TEXTE PAS OCÉRISÉGoogle 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 






^'^ /•- 






BOOK III 

SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 
MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 



A Yule-Tide Dinner (Continued) 



Coneolibateb Xtbtatis ot 
Aobetn Cooking 

anb t)ou8ebolb l^ecipes 



CHRISTINE TERHUNE HERRICK 

EDITOR-IN-CHIBP 

Aotbw of ** TlM Little Dinner." ** The Chaftng-Dish Supper," eU., 

end aeeociete author with 



MARION HARLAND 

of the National Cook 
Book 



AND 



A LIST OP CONTRIBUTORS WHICH INCLUDES MANY OP 

THB FAMOUS CHEFS AND COOKING EXPERTS 

OP THE UNITED STATES 



VOL. IIL 



Hew fiork 

1905 






\/ 



/ ' 



Co?jrrigh% 190^ 
By R. J. BOOMER 



THE WERNER COW^AMV 
AKRON, OWO 












K. » 



CONTENTS 

Ek>ups PisB 

Soup Stook .1 

Broths 28 

Cbbam Soups 84 

BUQUBS 6d 

Soups with Msat, and Pub^bs ... 69 

Soups without Meat 84 

Chowders 89 

A Group of Foreign Soups, bto lOO 

Fish 108 

Oysters and Shellfish 173 

Sauobb fob Fish and Meats 183 

Drbssinqs .208 

Meats 

Beefsteaks 205 

Beef Boasts, bto 210 

Meat and Poultry Pies 228 

Mutton 238 

Lamb 244 

Pork, Sausages, etc 250 

Veal 268 

Meat Piss 291 

Poultry and Game 

Chicken 296 

Turkey 302 

DuoK <^, 308 

V 



vi CC^TTENTS 

FAOB 

GOOfiB 811 

Habe or IUbbft 814 

Partbidob 816 

Plovbb 817 

PlOBON 818 

Quail 819 

Pheasant 819 

Shipb 880 

Obouse 821 

Venison 821 

woodoook 822 

Sauobs for Game « 828 

BNTRixs 827 

Boos .838 

Omelets • • • . .841 



SOUPS 

Soup Stock 

The making of stock, frequently looked upon 
by the young housekeeper as too intricate and 
troublesome to undertake, becomes as simple 
as many other matters of cooking when divested 
of the seeming mystery surrounding it — a mys- 
tery arising only from the lack of a few explicit 
directions combined with the same amount of 
care and forethought necessary for success in 
other departments of culinary art. 

Stock is simply the concentrated juices of 
meat or fowl extracted by the process of long 
and gentle simmering. It is used as a nutri- 
tive basis for soup, and while there are certain 
rules to be followed, ingenuity and good judg- 
ment, combined with the ingredients at hand, 
will make it easy to produce a variety as ac- 
ceptable in the matter of soups as in the rest 
of the menu. 

Into the stock-kettle many a little left-over 
of meat or fowl or the bone of a steak or chop 
should find its way. To the carcass of a fowl 
may be added a couple of pounds of veal with 



SOUP^ CmWDEBS, AND FISH 



a good-sized knuckle of the same, for a white 
stock; brown stock may be made from a com- 
bination of meats and fowl. 

In the making of soups from stock, cooked 
vegetables, a little meat or vegetable hash, or 
even a bit of cereal left from the morning meal, 
will add substance to the thick soup ; and all of 
these will contribute to the delicious flavor, in 
which no single one predominates, that makes 
the good soup so vastly different from its oppo- 
site — ^the one indifferently seasoned or too 
weak. 

Stock may be made the same day it is used^ 
but, rather than attempt this, it is better to 
make one of the emergency soups, for which 
directions are given elsewhere. A number of 
these may be made without stock. 

For cooking stock a steam-tight kettle is all- 
important, as it is necessary that there should 
be no waste by evaporation. If a soup-digester 
is considered too expensive, a granite-ware or 
porcelain-lined kettle with a tight-fitting cover 
will answer ev6ry purpose. Do not use an iron 
kettle if it can be avoided ; besides being heavy 
to handle, it rusts easily and is more difficult 
to clean. 

Vegetables should not be added to stock if it 
is to be kept for long, as their juices cause it 
to ferment sooner. In summer it will be neces- 



SOUPS 3 

sary to bring to a boil and skim the stock every 
day or two to prevent its souring. 

To prepare meats for stock, trim off all dried 
edges or useless bits, those that show any pos- 
sibility of taint, or that have come in contact 
with rusty meat-hooks. Binse off the outside 
very quickly in cold water and wipe with a 
clean cloth. Do not wash the meat after cut- 
ting it up ; the inside is clean, and each washing 
will result in some loss of the juices. Cut the 
meat in small pieces ; crack or saw the bones to 
allow quicker and more thorough extraction of 
the juices of the meat and the gelatine of the 
bones. The marrow should be removed from 
the inside of the bones and placed in the kettle 
first; then pack in the meat and bones and 
cover with cold water in the proportion of 1 
quart of water to 1 pound of meat. 

When cooked meats are to be used, carefully 
trim from the steak or roast any parts of fat 
or bone that have been burned in broiling or 
roasting, as these will give a bitter flavor to 
the stock. 

After adding the water to the meat and bones, 
let it stand for half an hour or more to allow 
the juices to be drawn out before heating ; then 
put the kettle over a slow fire and bring the 
contents to a gentle simmer. Never let a soup 
boil rapidly, as the rapid boiling hardens the 



SOUPS^ CHOWDERS, AND FISH 



outside of the meat and prevents the escape ol 
the juices, while gentle simmering extracts the 
nutritive qualities. 

Do not skim the stock as the scum be^s to 
rise. This scum is simply the blood and juices 
which at this stage of the cooking coagulate and 
rise to the surface ; a little later it will dis- 
integrate and be absorbed in the liquor ; to skim 
and throw it away is to lose a portion of the 
very thing we are trying to procure-the nu- 
tritive elements of the meat. 

After simmering is well begun, add the sea 
soning in the proportion of 1 teaspoonful of 
salt to a quart of water, a half saltspoon of 
ground white pepper, a celery root, or a tiny bit 
of celery seed," or the tops of celery. The leaves 
of celery, by the way, need never be thrown out, 
for, if not needed at once, they may be dried like 
any other savory herb, and put away for future 
use. Boiled in the stock before straining, they 
serve the same purpose as the seed. Add a 
sprig of parsley, and, if cloves or allspice are 
used, the whole ones are better, as they strain 
out, and the flavor is better than in the ground 
spices, however pure they are supposed to be. 

In the city markets ^' soup bunches " may be 
had for a penny or two, consisting of a sprig 
of parsley, a small carrot, a young onion, and 
whatever savory herbs are in the market, but 



SOUPS 5 

the housekeeper is fortunate if she can have 
her own parsley bed in her back yard or a box 
of it growing on her back porch, as it is one 
of the most useful of seasonings and gamish- 
ings. A mixture of dried sweet herbs put up 
in bottles, to be found at first-class grocers, is 
a convenience, as it saves the trouble of meas- 
uring out each one separately. A teaspoonful 
of this to one quart of stock is the right propor- 
tion. 

When the meat has cooked until reduced to 
shreds, or drops from the bones, leaving them 
clean, strain the stock into the stock jar of 
earthen or stone ware. A rather fine strainer 
that fits the jar, or a colander into which a piece 
of cheesecloth is laid, should be used. Dip the 
stock from the kettle into the strainer, allowing 
it to run through without pressing or squeez- 
ing. By letting it stand a short time all the 
liquor will run through, leaving the scraps 
quite dry. These are of no further use. 

Stand the jar where the stock will cool 
quickly, and when cool put in the refrigerator ; 
the fat will rise to the top and form a cake hard 
enough to remove without trouble by running 
a knife aroimd the edge of the jar. If a good 
proportion of bone has been used, the stock, 
when cold, ^ will be a stiff jelly. The cake of fat 
on the top will help the stock to keep by exclud- 



SOUPSr CHOWDER& AND FISH 



ing the air, and need not be removed at onoOi 
as a portion of it may be cut and the necessary 
amount of stock taken out. The remaining 
stock should be heated to allow the cake to form 
on the top again. When the fat is taken off 
it should be clarified with raw potato and added 
to the beef drippings for frying and sauteing. 

The stock thus made will be sufficiently clear 
for most soups, but it must be clarified if a very 
clear one is to be made. 

To clarify stock remove every particle of fat, 
beat the white of one egg for every quart of 
stock, add this and the crushed shell of the egg 
to the stock while the latter is cold, mixing it 
in very thoroughly. Put it over the fire and 
stir constantly while heating, so that the egg 
will not settle. When it has reached the boil- 
ing point leave it to simmer for ten minutes ; a 
thick scum will then have formed. Take the 
stock from the fire and add a half cup of cold 
water, let it stand a few minutes, and strain 
through a colander in which a fine napkin or 
other thin cloth, wrung out of cold water, has 
been laid. 

Do not pour the stock directly on the napkin 
or the scum will clog it, but let it first run 
through a fine wire strainer which will catch 
the scum and the shells. Either before or after 
clarifying, this stock is ready for an almost 



SOUPS 7 

endless variety of soups or consommes by the 
addition of cooked vegetables^ macaroni, spa- 
ghetti or vermicelli, rice or barley— or it may 
be nsed in gravies and side-dishes. 

If dark soup is desired, it may be made by 
the addition of a little caramel or dark ronx, 
or by browning some sliced vegetables or diced 
fresh meat in bntter and adding it to the stock. 

To make a white stock, use veal and chicken 
in about eqnal parts ; follow the directions for 
beef in preparing the veal, cut np and joint the 
chicken as for stewing, and proceed as for the 
other stock, omitting in the seasoning cloves or 
any spices that will darken the stock, and using 
celery. 

Stock from Bones 

The bones from steaks, roasts, and poultry 
may be saved till a sufficient amount is on hand ; 
then crack, cover with cold water, and, as soon 
as it boils, skim ; then let it simmer four hours ; 
after the third hour add the flavorings, as in 
plain stock. 

Stock from bones ia not apt to be as clear as 
Tdien made from fresh meat, and if transpar- 
ency is desired it must be clarified. After the 
fat has been taken from the surface, turn the 
stock into soup-kettle, keeping back the sedi- 
ment in the bottom of the bowl. Wash 2 eggs, 
and beat the whites with the shells in ^ cup 



8 SOUPSi CHOVDERS» AND FISH 

cold water; put this into the cold soup, mix 
carefully; let it come to a boil, add 1 table- 
spoonful lemon juice, and boil hard five min- 
utes. After it has stood a minute to settle, 
strain through two or three thicknesses of 
cheesecloth, wrung out of cold water. 

Stock for Consomm6 

Take a shin of beef and a knuckle of veal, 
wipe carefully with a damp cloth; crack; then 
remove the meat from the bone, and cut into 
small pieces. Put a sliced onion and 2 table- 
spoonfuls sugar into the soup-kettle to brown 
and bum, then put in the meat. When well 
seared, add bones and 6 quarts cold water; 
cover, bring slowly to boiling point, and skim. 

Keep it simmering— not boiling— three hours ; 
then add an onion in which are stuck 12 cloves, 
a bay leaf, a sliced carrot, a few celery tops or 
V^ teaspoonful celery seed, and a saltspoonful 
of pepper. 

Simmer for another hour; strain, and set 
aside to cool. When cold remove every par- 
ticle of fat, and, if well made, you will have a 
transparent, brown, thick jelly, all ready for 
use. The meat may be used in pressed meats 
or curries. 

Beef and Chicken Stock 

Brown an onion and sugar as in the preced- 
ing recipe, put in the meat from a shin of beef • 



SOUPS 9 

and let it become seared ; then pnt in the bones, 
and arrange the chicken so it will rest on them. 
Pnt in 5 qnarts cold water, simmer gently till 
the chicken is thoroughly tender, when it may 
be taken out for use. Continue cooking the 
stock for three hours, season, and finish as in 
oonsomme stock. 

Beef Bouillon 

2 or 3 pounds of beef from the round ; a shank 
bone weighing half as much as the meat ; 2 full 
quarts water; 1 onion; 1 stalk celery; 1 small 
carrot, diced ; 1 teaspoon salt ; 1 saltspoon pep- 
per or 3 peppercorns ; 2 or 3 cloves ; 2 teaspoon- 
fuls mixed herbs or ^ teaspoonful kitchen bou- 
quet ; 1 bay leaf ; 1 sprig parsley ; 1 teaspoonful 
caramel. 

Dice one-half the meat, stick the cloves in the 
onion, and saute quickly together in marrow 
from the bones or a little butter until the meat 
is a rich brown, taking care that the onion does 
not bum. Cut the rest of the meat in small 
pieces and put all in the kettle with the bones. 
Add the cold water and simmer gently four or 
five hours, then add the seasoning, celery, and 
carrot, and simmer an hour longer. The quan- 
tity should then be reduced to about 3 pints. 
Strain and cool ; remove the fat, and clear with 
egg in the same manner as soup stock. Heat, 



10 SOUPS, CHOWDERS^ AND FISH 



add the caramel, or, if preferred, one or two 
tablespoonfuls of sherry. . Serve hot in caps. 

Beef Soup 

3 or 4 pounds beef from the roimd; 1 shin- 
bone; 1 onion, sliced; 1 quart water to each 
pound meat and bones ; 1 teaspoon salt ; 3 or 4 
cloves ; l^ teaspoon pepper. 

Binse and wipe the meat and cut in two or 
three pieces, just sufficient to pack closely with 
the bones in the kettle. Have the bone well 
cracked. Stick the cloves in the meat. Pack 
bones and meat in the kettle with the slices of 
onion between. Pour the cold water over it 
and cover closely and let it stand half an hour ; 
then heat slowly and simmer for five or six 
hours, when the bones should be clean and the 
meat very tender, but not broken in pieces. 
Lift out the bone and any gristly pieces, add 
the salt and pepper, and leave the meat to cool 
in the liquor. 

The next morning take off the cake of fat 
that will have formed on the top, take out the 
meat, and set aside to use for hash, meat balls, 
etc. When ready to make the soup, heat and 
strain, add any vegetables liked, season more 
highly, according to taste, or clear with egg 
and serve as a consonmie or bouillon. 

Made in this way the stock can be used as a 



SOUPS SI 

basis for any soup, and the meat will retain the 
goodness and flavor. It is also made with less 
trouble than many soups. 

Beef Tea-No. 1 

Take from 1 to 2 pounds of lean beef 

from the rump; cut off every particle of fat, 
and cut the meat into dicOi Put it into a bottle 
and cork tightly. Tie down the cork, if neces- 
sary. Or it may be put in a fruit jar with a 
screw top and tightly sealed. Put the bottle 
in a deep saucepan with cold water enough to 
reach at least two-thirds to the top of the 
bottle; let it heat slowly, and boil twenty min- 
utes or thirty. By this time the juice should be 
well extracted from "the meat. Strain off the 
liquor and season with salt and pepper as re- 
quired. 

Beef Tea-No. 2 

1 pound meat, 1 pint cold water. The 
meat should be juicy, having as little fat as 
possible. After removing the skin and all the 
fat, cut the meat into small pieces, and put into 
a bowl with the water. Let stand for several 
hours in a cool place, until the meat has parted 
with its juices. Then heat slowly until it be- 
comes steaming hot; remove from the fire and 
strain, to remove the meat. Cool quickly as 
possible, in order not to absorb any odors from 
the room. Serve hot or cold, seasoning it when 



12 SOUPS» CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

used. If reheated, care must be taken to heat 
no more than to steaming point. 

Brunoise Soup 

Slice equal quantities of carrots, turnips, 
onions, leeks, and celery, and fry until brown, in 
plenty of butter. Put them in a saucepan and 
pour over stock enough to about half cover, and 
boil briskly until it is reduced to a paste. Pour 
in sufficient clear soup to make the desired quan- 
tity, and bring to a boil. Prepare some Italian 
paste, boil it separately and mix it with the 
soup, or use boiled rice with rings of turnip 
sliced and fried brown in butter. Serve very 
hot with croutons of bread. 

Chicken Soup with Leeks and Onions 

Cut some nice slices from a chicken and 
brown them in a saucepan with a tablespoonful 
of butter and a sliced onion. Pour over them 
three pints of chicken consomme, add 3 leeks 
sliced, a sprig of parsley, and 2 or 3 celery tops. 
Season with salt and pepper, and half a blade 
of mace. Boil half an hour, remove the pars- 
ley, celery top, and mace, and serve with sip- 
pets of fried bread. 

Chicken Soup Quickly Made 

Cut the meat of half a chicken in small pieces, 
^lice a small onion, put it in a saucepan with a 



SOUPS a 

tablespoonful of butter, when hot add the 
chicken and fry together for ten or fifteen 
minutes, turning the chicken around often until 
well browned. Add 3 pints of consomme or 
goody clean, white stock, 3 tablespoonfuls of 
well-washed rice, a dash of cayenne, a teaspoon- 
ful of minced parsley, and salt as needed. Boil 
all together twenty minutes and serve. 

Clear Soup with Noodles 

Peel and slice enough carrots, onions, and 
green leeks to make a pint; cut a small young 
cabbage into thin shreds, put all in a saucepan 
with a piece of butter the size of an egg, cover 
and put over a slow fire and cook until quite 
tender, shaking the pan or stirring carefully 
several times to be sure that they do not stick 
to the bottom of the pan. When the vegetables 
are cooked, pour over them 3 pints of clear soup 
and boil thirty minutes. 

To make the noodles : Beat i/4 of a pound of 
slightly softened butter until very creamy, then 
beat in slowly 3 tablespoonfuls of flour and 3 
well-beaten eggs. Beat until very smooth. 
Strain the soup and return it to the saucepan, 
and when it boils roll the paste into small round 
balls with the hands, dipping them frequently 
in cold water to prevent the balls from sticking, 
drop them into the boiling soup and cook 



14 SOUPS, CHOVDERS, AND FISH 

steadily for fifteen minutes, pour into the soup 
tureen and serve. 

Consomm£ Almond 

Blanch and chop fine two dozen almonds ; mix 
with an equal quantity stale bread crumbs; 
season with ^ saltspoonful salt, and add 
enough of the white of 2 eggs to bind the whole 
together; mix thoroughly, and form into tiny 
balls, roll them in the remaining white of egg, 
and drop into hot oil — ^not butter. 

If you do not use oil, take ordinary frying 
material — suet or lard. Shake till the balls are 
golden brown, lift with a skimmer, drain for an 
instant on soft brown paper, then put into 
tureen and turn over nicely seasoned hot stock. 

Calfs Foot Consommi 

Boil 2 calf ^s feet and a quarter of a pound 

of veal in 3 quarts of water until it is reduced 

to 3 pints. Season with salt, a few blades of 

mace, and a little nutmeg. Strain through a 

colander, remove the fat, and place on ice to 

cool. 

Consomtni Amber 

3 pounds veal-knuckle; 3 pounds beef shin; 
2 pounds young fowl; 2 medium-sized onions; 
1 small carrot; 1 small turnip; 2 stalks celery 
with the tops ; 2 sprigs parsley ; 2 teaspoonf uls 
mixed sweet herbs; 2 blades mace; 6 whole 



SOUPS H 

doves ; 6 whole allspice ; 2 teaspoonf uls salt ; 1 
saltspoon white pepper; 1 bay leaf; 1 lemon; 
3 egg whites and shells ; 4 quarts water. 

Wipe and cnt the meat in small pieces, crack 
all the bones; cut up and wash the chicken. 
Put them all in the kettle with the cold water, 
let it stand half an hour, then heat slowly. 
When boiling add the vegetables, chopped or 
sliced, the herbs and other seasoning, and sim- 
mer slowly six hours. By this time the meat 
should be in shreds and the bones clean. 
Strain and let it cool. When cold take off the 
fat, put on the fire, and while still cold add the 
egg whites and shells, and the lemon washed and 
sliced, and more salt, if necessary. Mix well, 
heat, and boil ten minutes. Strain through a 
napkin, wet and laid inside a fine strainer. It 
should be clear and of a beautiful amber color. 
Just before serving heat, and add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of sherry. If not colored enough, add a 
very little caramel, or enough to give it the de- 
sired color. Serve a small quantity only. 

To the amber consomme may be made many 
additions, changing the character and giving it 
the name of the principal addition. 

Consomm^ with Ess Balls 

3 pints consomme; 2 egg yolks, hard-boiled; 
2 egg whites, beaten stiff. 



16 SOUPS^ CHO^mERS, AND FISH 

The eggs may be separated and the yolks 
dropped carefully into boiling water and boiled 
hard. Mash them, add one-half as much 
cracker flour as egg, season with salt and cay- 
enne, moisten with cream, and bind with raw 
egg. Make into balls the size of marbles. 
Drop these into the boiling consomme, cook five 
minutes, add a dash of nutmeg and a table- 
spoonful of wine. Serve with a spoonful of the 
stiffly beaten whites of egg on the top of each 
plate. 

Consomm£ with Brussels Sprouts 

Cook sufficient Brussels sprouts in salted 
water until tender, add them to 3 pints of con- 
somme amber. 

Consomm^ with Cucumber 

Peel and cut two cucumbers in dice, stew half 
an hour in salted water, drain, and add to the 
hot consomme. Serve with small croutons. 

Consomm^ with Asparasus Tips 

To 3 pints of hot consomme add 1 cup of 
asparagus tips cooked in salted water until 
tender, but not broken. Color a delicate green 
with spinach juice. Serve with soup sticks, 
roll them the size of the forefinger, cut six 
inches in length, and bake a number of rings 
made by joining the ends of these pieces to 



SOUPS 17 

make a circle, bake and serve one ring to each 
plate, filled with as many of the sticks as the 
ring will hold easily. 

Consomme with Vermicelli 

Break the vermicelli into pieces one and 
a half to three inches in length, cook in boiling 
salted water, blanch and simmer for fifteen 
minutes in the consomme. Allow a tablespoon- 
fnl of the vermicelli, before cooked, to each 
plate. Spaghetti or macaroni or any of the 
Italian pastes may be used instead of the vermi- 
celli. With spaghetti or macaroni sprinkle 
grated Parmesan cheese over the top of each 
plate, and serve at once. 

Consommi with Mushrooms 

Cut into small cubes enough mushrooms to 
make a pint. Saute them in butter, add to 3 
pints of consomme, let them simmer fifteen 
minutes, add ^ glass of sherry and a little 
nutmeg. Let it heat up, and serve. 

Marrow Balls for Consomm6 

Mix together % cup soft bread crumbs with 
% cup chopped marrow; add 1 saltspoonful 
salt, ^ teaspoonful onion juice, and a dash of 
pepper ; then stir in the yolk of an egg. Make 
into small balls, roll quickly in the white of an 
egg, and drop into boiling water. They will 



IS SOUPS, CHOWDEE^ AND FISH 

sink at first, but will soon come to the surface, 
and when they float, in two to three minutes — 
take out with skimmer into tureen, — then pour 

over the hot stock. 

« 

Colbert Consomm6 

Allow 1 egg to each person, and poach care- 
fully while the stock is being heated. When 
the hot consomme has been seasoned, turn into 
heated tureen, and gently drop in the poached 
eggs ; i^erve at once. 

Duchess Consomm^ 

Mix thoroughly ^ cup bread crumbs, ^ cup 
soft cheese, 1 egg, 1 saltspoonful salt, and a 
dash of cayenne; form into little balls, roll in 
egg and drop quickly into boiling water ; if put 
into the stock, it will become clouded. Take 
them up with skimmer, put into hot tureen, pour 
over them the boiling stock. 

Consomm^ A Tlmp^ratrice 

An Elaborate Dinner Soup 

Put a level tablespoonful each of butter and 
flour into a saucepan with % cup milk, stir till 
it boils, and add 1/2 teaspoonful onion juice, 1 
tablespoonful chopped parsley, Y^ saltspoonful 
mace, salt and pepper, and V^ cup chopped 
chicken; mix thoroughly and turn out to cooL 
At serving time make this into small balls. 



roll in egg, and drop quickly into Jiot fat or oil, 
and drain on soft brown paper. Have % pint 
of fresh green peas and 4 tablespoonf uls of rice 
carefully boiled, and put in soup tureen — ^tum 
in hot chicken consomme— drop in the force- 
meat balls, and serve at once. 

Consomm^ Chestnut 

Blanch two dozen chestnuts, cook till tender 
in a pint of stock; drain and salt slightly. 
After the chicken consomme has been turned 
into tureen, drop in the chestnuts carefully, as 
they are easily broken. 

Consomm^ Curry 

Cook a tablespoonful butter and a sliced 
onion slowly together without browning the 
butter; put this into soup-kettle with a large, 
sour apple cored and sliced without paring, a 
sprig of thyme and parsley, a bay leaf, a table- 
spoonful lemon juice, 1 level teaspoonful salt, 
and 1 teaspoonful curry powder. Stir all to- 
gether, and add 1 quart chicken stock; simmer 
gently ten minutes ; put 2 tablespoonf uls boiled 
rice into tureen, strain over the hot soup, and 
serve at once. 

Consomme Spinach 

Wash the leaves from a pint of spinach, put 
into a dry kettle, and sprinkle with a saltspoon- 



aO SOUPS, CHOVDERS» AND FBH 

f ul of salt ; pnt at first over a moderate heat till 
the spinach softens, then push over to a hotter 
part of the stove and stir for five minutes; 
drain, chop fine, and press through a sieve; mix 
with this a well-beaten egg, a drop of Tabasco, 
and a saltspoonf ul salt. 

Put this into shallow pan, set it in another 
of boiling water, and cook in the oven until 
solid. Cut into fancy shapes, put into soup 
tureen, and turn over the seasoned hot stock. 

Conaomm^ with Tomato Blocks 

Use tomato conserve, or the thickest part of 
canned tomatoes, put through a sieve, and cook 
slowly to a thick paste. To a half -cup of this 
add a tiny bit of ground mace, ^ saltspoonful 
salt and Tabasco, and the slightly beaten white 
of 2 eggs; pour into shallow dish, stand in a 
pan of water, and cook in oven till well set ; cut 
into fancy blocks. 

Turn hot consomme into tureen and carefully 
drop in the blocks. 

This may be varied by substituting peas for 
the tomatoes, seasoning with celery seed and 
pepper instead of Tabasco. 

Consommi Royal 

Beat 1 egg thoroughly; add 2 tablespoonfuls 
clear stock, i/^ teaspoonful onion juice, a salt- 
spoonful salt, and ^ saltspoonful pepper. Mix 



SOUPS 21 

well and turn into a small custard cup; stand 
this in a pan of hot water and cook in the oven 
till the custard is set, turn out, and cut into 
dice — or cook in a shallow pan and cut in fancy 
blocks ; put these into tureen and pour over hot 
seasoned stock. 

Consomme Printanidre 

Cut 2 small carrots and a turnip into fancy 
shapes with a vegetable cutter or scoops; sim- 
mer twenty minutes in salted water with an 
equal amount of asparagus tips and green 
peas. Drain, and put them into 3 pints of 
clear stock ; let it cook ten minutes longer ; add 
more salt and pepper if needed, and serve. 

Cr£cy Soup 

Wash and scrape one large carrot ; shave off 
the outer part, leaving the core. Cook with an 
onion in boiling water until tender, then rub 
through a strainer. Add to 1 quart of hot 
stock, season with salt and pepper and a tea- 
spoonful of sugar. Serve with croutons. 

English Beef Soup 

Take 2% pounds of lean beef, cut off and lay 
aside about l^ of a pound, and pass the remain- 
der through the meat chopper. Pour over it 
3 pints of cold water, let stand for half an hour, 
then heat gradually, and simmer for three 



22 SOUPSy CHOVDERS» AND FISH 

hours, then strain. Boil separately nntil tender 
2 tablespoonfuls of fine barley and % of a cup- 
ful of diced carrot. Cut the reserved piece of 
meat into tiny pieces, peel and thinly slice one 
small onion, and brown with the meat in a 
spoonful of drippings. Add 1 scant cupful of 
finely cut celery and 1 cupful of boiling water 
and simmer for an hour. Stir in 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of flour smoothly mixed with cold water, 
add gradually the meat stock, and stir for a few 
moments. Bring to the boiling point, add the 
previously cooked carrot and barley, % of a 
teaspoonful of Worcestershire, 1 tablespoonful 
of tomato catsup, and salt and pepper to taste, 
then simmer for ten minutes longer. 

Giblet Soup 

Clean either chicken or goose or duck giblets, 
and cut the gizzard into %-inch cubes. Put all 
into a stewpan containing a small piece of lean 
ham cut into dice. Fry the giblets a few min- 
utes, then add 2 quarts of good stock, an onion 
stuck with cloves, thyme, or parsley; 2 sprigs 
of marjoram, a few celery seeds tied in a muslin 
bag, a teaspoonful of pepper. Simmer gently 
for two hours, then remove the giblets and put 
them into a tureen. Strain the soup, and 
thicken with a tablespoonful of flour cooked 
with one of butter until slightly browned. Let 



SOUPS 23 

the soup boil for fifteen minutes, then return 
the giblets long enough to get hot, and serve 
with toasted sippets. 

Hasty Soup 

Mince together a pound of lean beef , mutton, 
or vealy a small turnip, a small carrot, half an 
ounce of celery, the white part of a medium- 
sized leek, or a very small onion. Put into a 
deep saucepan with 3 pints of cold water. 
When the soup boils, take off the scum and 
season with salt and pepper. It can be served 
with or without straining, and should be cooked 
only about half an hour. A little catsup is an 
addition. 

Inexpensive Soup 

In this soup veal is substituted for chicken. 

Put a large knuckle of veal in 3 quarts of cold 
water over a slow fire; let it simmer for three 
hours ; skim often. Strain, and add a bay leaf, 
a carrot, a turnip, a blade of mace, a small 
onion, 2 cloves, a sprig of parsley, and a few 
stalks celery. Boil half an hour and strain. 
When it has jellied, take equal amounts of the 
jelly and cream, and use as in celery cream 
soup. 

Julienne Soup 

2 quarts stock; 2 carrots; 1 turnip; 1 head 
celery ; 2 onions ; 1 head cauliflower ; 1 head let- 



24 SOUPS» CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

tuoe; ^ gill green peas; 1 pint asparagos 
heads. 

Pare and cut up all the vegetables, cut the 
celery into bits, the head of cauliflower into 
flowerets. Put them into a kettle, cover with 
boiling water; boil fifteen minutes, then drain 
them in a colander. Melt the stock and bring 
to a boil, put the vegetables in, and simmer half 
an hour. Put the peas and asparagus heads 
into boiling water and simmer them for twenty 
minutes ; then drain to the boiling soup, then the 
lettuce cut into pieces or chopped, which should 
be cooked about ten minutes. Add salt and 
pepper to taste, and serve at once. 

Russian Julienne Soup 

Cut 1 onion, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, a celery root, 
and 1 leek into dice. Shred 1 onion and 1 
small cabbage. Cut also enough mushrooms to 
equal the whole of the other vegetables. Fry 
in a saucepan the leeks and onions in a little 
butter, taking care that they do not color. Put 
in all the other vegetables and the mushrooms, 
and cook gently until the moisture of the mush- 
rooms is drawn out. Pour over enough rich 
broth to nearly cover, and cook until quite thick; 
pour over 3 quarts of boiling broth and simmer 
for an hour longer, adding salt and pepper to 
taste, and a little finely minced fennel. Now 



SOUPS 25 

strain in sour cream enough to thicken^ stirring 
briskly. 

To be strictly Bussian, this soup requires to 
be served accompanied by meat patties, rissoles, 
or croquettes. 

Left-over Soup 

Gut up the bones and trimmings from a 6- 
pound roast of beef, 2 cold mutton chops, the 
uncooked end of sirloin steak, and put over the 
fire in 4 quarts cold water, to which add 1 table- 
' spoonful salt, 4 cloves, 4 peppercorns, a cold 
fried ^gg, 2 baked apples, a cup cold boiled 
onions, 2 stalks celery, and 1 tablespoonful 
mixed herbs. 

Let all simmer till the meat separates from 
the bones, and the water is reduced one-half. 
Strain ; next morning remove the fat, heat stock 
to boiling point, warm with it 1 cup cold to- 
matoes or macaroni, and add more seasoning 
if needed. 

Mullisatawny Soup 

Mulligatawny is a very hi^ly seasoned soup, 
hot with curry powder, and has the acid of some 
fruit, as lime, or lemon juice, or tart apple. It 
is said to be of Indian origin, the word meaning 
** pepper pot." 

1 good-sized chicken; 1 pound veal with bones, 
or a quart of veal stock; ^ cup cold ham, cut 



26 SOUPSr CHOWDERS^ AND FISH 

fine; 1 carrot; 1 stalk celery; 2 onions; 1 cup 
tomatoes ; 4 quarts water ; 1 tart green apple ; 
y^ glass currant jelly ; ^^ pound sweet almonds ; 
1 teaspoon sugar ; 3 or 4 cloves ; 3 or 4 pepper- 
corns ; 2 teaspoonf uls salt ; 1 tablespoonf ul good 
butter or clear beef drippings; 2 teaspoonf uls 
chutney ; 1 or 2 drops Tabasco. 

Clean, joint, and cut up the chicken. Cut the 
veal in small pieces and crack the bones. Put 
into the soup-kettle with the chopped ham, pour 
the cold water over it, and let it come slowly 
to a boil. Slice the onion and fry a light brown 
in the butter or drippings. Slice the carrot, 
apple, celery, and tomatoes. Put these in the 
kettle, add the cloves and peppers. Mix the 
curry powder, salt, and sugar to a paste, moist- 
ening with a little lemon juice or the liquor from 
the soup. Add this and the jelly and lemon, 
cut in quarters and sliced. 

Pound the almonds to a paste in a mortar, 
moistening with milk. Strain this into the soup, 
and let all simmer until the chicken is tender; 
remove the chicken and veal and cut the meat 
from the bone. Return the bones to the kettle 
and continue to simmer until the bones are 
clean; then strain and skim. Put over the fire 
and add the meat cut in nice pieces; add the 
Tabasco and chutney and 2 tablespoons boiled 
rice. As soon as thoroughly heated, serve. 



SOUPS 27 

Onion Soup (Spanish) 

Peel and slice 3 large Spanish onions; sep- 
arate them into rings and fry in a tablespoon- 
ftd of butter until tender and slightly browned. 
Put them in a saucepan, add 2 quarts of water, 
and boil an hour ; season to taste with salt and 
pepper. Crumble the inside of a stale roll, sift 
and add to the soup, and boil for an hour longer. 
When just ready to serve, add the yolks of 2 
eggs, beaten light, and mixed with 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar and a few spoonfuls of the soup, 
pouring in gradually and stirring briskly one 
way. Pour into the tureen, and serve at once. 

Oxtail Soup 

1 large oxtail; 1 onion; 1 small slice fat salt 
pork or 1 tablespoonful beef drippings; 2 
quarts water; 1 carrot; 1 stalk celery; 2 tea- 
spoonfuls salt ; 2 cloves ; 2 peppercorns, % salt- 
spoonful paprika; a sprig of parsley; a little 
thyme ; a blade of mace. 

Wash and cut up the oxtail, separating at 
each joint; divide the thick parts into four. 
Slice the onion and the saute in the hot pork or 
beef drippings. When the onion begins to 
brown, put in half of the oxtail and brown. Put 
this with the other in the soup-kettle, add the 
cold water, and when it comes to a boil add the 
carrot, celery, parsley, mace, and thyme, the 



28 SOUPS, CHOWDERSr AND FISH 

cloves, peppers, and salt, and let it simmer until 
the oxtail is tender and begins to fall from the 
bones. 

Lift out some of the nicest pieces of oxtail 
and remove the meat from the bones, cut it 
small, and set aside to be served in the soup. 

Strain the liquor, skim off the fat, add the 
pieces of meat, more salt if necessary, and a 
little paprika. Boil up and add half a glass 
madeira or port. Serve with soup sticks. 

This soup, if made carefully, should be clear. 
If a thick soup is desired, brown a little of the 
fat in a saucepan, mix in very smoothly a table- 
spoon of flour, and stir in before putting in the 
piece of meat. It may also be varied by put- 
ting in the vegetables after the stock has been 
strained. They should then be diced and boiled 
in the stock until tender, but not broken. 

BROTHS 

Chicken Broth 

1 good-sized chicken ; 1 small onion ; 2 table- 
spoonfuls rice; 1 quart water; 2 tablespoonfuls 
rich cream ; 1 teaspoonf ul salt ; % saltspoonf ul 
white pepper. 

Clean the chicken; cut up and separate it at 
the joints. Take off all the skin and fat. Put 
it in a saucepan with the sliced onion, cover with 



SOUPS 29 

the water, bring to a boil, and simmer slowly. 
When the chicken is tender take it out, slice off 
the best parts of the meat, put the remainder 
back in the kettle with the salt and pepper, and 
simmer until the bones are clean. Strain, and 
remove all the fat. Have the rice well washed 
and soaked for half an hour in water enough 
to cover, put it in the broth, and cook until the 
rice is tender. 

Add the cream, some of the nicest pieces of 
chicken, and more seasoning if necessary. 

Serve very hot with crisp, thin crackers. 

Mutton Broth 

1 pound lean, juicy mutton; 1 small onion; 
1 quart water; 2 tablespoonfuls rice; 1 tea- 
spoonful salt; % saltspoon pepper. A little 
cayenne or a very little curry powder if liked. 

Binse and wipe the mutton and cut into small 
pieces. If there are bones, crack them. Cover 
with the cold water and heat slowly. Add the 
onion and simmer until the meat is in rags. 
Strain, and when cool, remove every particle of 
fat. Betum to the fire, add the salt and other 
seasoning, and, as soon as it boils, put in the 
rice, which has been well washed and soaked in 
cold water for half an hour. Simmer until the 
rice is tender, and serve with thin squares of 
delicately browned toast. 



» SOUPS, CHGWDBM, AND FISH 

A little celery salt helps to overcome the mut- 
tony taste that is objectionable to some persons, 
but this is lessened by the addition of the onion, 
the flavor of which is lost in that of the mutton. 

Scotch Mutton Broth 

Soak 6 pounds mutton in water for an hour, 
then place in stewpan with three quarts of 
water. As soon as it boils skim well, and then 
simmer for an hour and a half. Cut best end 
of mutton into cutlets, dividing it with 2 bones 
in each ; take nearly all the fat off before put- 
ting it into the broth; skim the moment the 
meat boils, and every ten minutes afterward. 
Add 5 carrots, 5 turnips, and 2 onions, all cut 
up fine ; then stir in 4 tablespoonfuls of Scotch 
barley, and salt to taste. Let all stew together 
for three and a half hours. About half an hour 
before sending it to the table put in a little 
chopped parsley. 

Chicken Gumbo 

1 chicken or old fowl; 2 slices breakfast 
bacon; 1 large onion; 1 pint okra, cut small; 1 
cup green corn; 1 green pepper; 1 can or 1 
quart tomatoes ; 2 quarts hot water ; 1 teaspoon 
salt ; 14 teaspoon pepper ; 1 bay leaf ; 1 teaspoon 
curry; 1 tablespoonful gumbo filee powder. 

Dress and cut up the chicken ; wash and wipe 



SOUPS SI 

it. Fry the sliced onion with the bacon nntil 
only slightly brown. Put this in the kettle with 
the chicken, pour in the water and cook until 
veiy tender, and the bones will fallout. Take the 
chicken out and remove all the bones, skim fat, 
and cut the meat in small bits. Strain the 
liquor through a coarse strainer, return the 
chicken, put in all the vegetables, the curry 
powder and bay leaf, and cook until the okra 
begins to ^ ^ rope ' ' ; then add the gumbo filee 
powder. 

Serve with plain boiled rice or rice balls. The 
gumbo filee powder may be obtained in bottles 
at all first-class grocers \ 

Chicken Gumbo with Oysters 

Strain the liquor from one quart of oysters, 
scald and skim it, and add to the soup with the 
vegetables. Pick the oysters over and rinse 
them in cold water, and put them in the boiling 
soup just before serving, giving them time to 
plump, and serve immediately, without the rice 
or rice balls. 

Oyster Gumbo 

Put a Spanish onion in 4 tablespoonfuls olive 
oil, and cook till tender and slightly brown. 
Add 1 tablespoonful flour, 1 sweet chili peeled 
and chopped fine, and 1 pint okra. Cover for 
fifteen minutes, then add 100 drained oysters; 



32 SOUPS^ CHOWDERS^ AND FISH 

let this come quickly to a boil, put in 1 table- 
spoonful filee, turn into soup tureen, and serve 
with nicely boiled rice. 

Gumbo Fll6e Soup 

Wash and slice a quart of okra, cook in a pint 
of water till tender; while cooking prepare a 
fowl as for fricassee, and chop ^ pound lean 
ham. Cook a sliced onion in 4 tablespoonfuls 
olive oil till brown, add the chicken and ham, 
stir till the chicken is slightly browned, then 
add a pint boiling water, and simmer till the 
chicken is perfectly tender. At serving time 
mix the okra (gumbo) with the chicken; add 
50 oysters, drained; bring quickly to a boil. 
Moisten a tablespoonful of filee powder in a 
little of the soup, stir it into the whole, and 
serve. Do not let the soup boil after adding 
the powder. Salt and pepper to taste. 

This is one of the favorites taken from a pet 
list of Creole recipes. 

Irish Soup» or Balnamoon Skink 

Put a couple of fowls into a pot, and boil until 
their juices are thoroughly extracted and the 
broth is rich and good. One of the fowls may be 
trussed as for boiling and removed as soon as 
cooked, but they are best cut up when intended 
only for soup. When well boiled, strain the 



SOUPS 33 

8oup through a colander into a clean saucepan. 
Season with salt, pepper, sweet herbs, chives, 
and chopped onions. Add celery, lettuce, and, 
if in season, green peas. Stew until the vege- 
tables are tender. 2 eggs, well beaten, added 
to a cup of cream and stirred into the soup, will 
greatly improve it. The trussed fowl is some- 
times served in the tureen with the soup. 
When sent to the table separately, thicken some 
of the broth and pour it over the fowl. 

Kale Brose 

Take an ox-hecl, clean it thoroughly, and 
pour over it 5 pints of cold water ; boil for four 
hours, removing the sciun that rises to the top. 
Meanwhile take 2 large handfuls of greens, 
cleanse and free from insects, then shred finely, 
and put into the broth. When sufficiently 
cooked, stir % pint of toasted oatmeal into a 
little of the fat broth (this should be stirred in 
with the handle of a spoon, and stirred very 
quickly, so as to prevent it massing in one 
lump). Add to the rest, with pepper and salt 
to taste. Let all boil up together, and serve as 
hot as possible. For six people. 



34 SOUPS, CHOWDiRS, AND FIOT 

CREAM SOUPS 

An important point in preparing cream 
soups is to be sure the milk is absolutely f resh, 
and then, to guard against curdling, to drop 
into it a pinch of baking soda. A cream soup 
that is curdled is not pleasant, and should of 
course not be served. Do not let the soup boil 
after it is ready. 

Duchess Soup 

Slice 2 large onions and fry them ten minutes 
in 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Add gradually 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour and stir two or three 
minutes, or until smooth; then pour in slowly 
a quart of boiling milk, season with salt and 
pepper, and let it simmer fifteen minutes, stir- 
ring frequently. Strain and return it to the 
fire, and add 2 tablespoonfuls of grated Par- 
mesan cheese. Beat 3 eggs very light, pour 
them through a strainer into the soup; stir 
briskly for a few minutes, but do not let it boil. 
Serve with toasted croutons or fried sippets. 

Almond Milk Soup 

Blanch % pound of almonds and brown in the 
oven; while crisp and hot, mash to a powder 
with a rolling pin. Scald 1 quart of milk, add 
a tablespoonf ul of butter rolled in a tablespoon- 
ful of flour, and the almonds. Cook five min- 



SOUPS ^ 

ntes, add a teaspoonfnl of salt and a dash of 
cayenne, and serve hot with crontons. 

Peanuts may be used in the same manner ; or 
cook 1 cupful of shelled and blanched peanuts 
with % cupful of lentils for one hour, in 1^4 
quarts of water, adding a slice of onion, a spray 
of parsley, and a stalk of celery. When tender 
rub through a pur6e sieve and add salt and pep- 
per. Return to the fire and thicken with a 
tablespoonful of butter rolled in a tablespoon- 
f ul of flour. 

Macedoine Soup 

Put in the bottom of a porcelain or agate 
saucepan as many thin slices of ham as will 
cover it. On top of this put a thick layer of 
chopped turnips, one of potatoes, and one of 
onions, in equal quantities. Add a few sprigs 
of parsley and a blade of mace. Pour over a 
quart of stock and simmer gently until reduced 
to a pulp. Strain the soup through a fine sieve ; 
return to the fire, season with salt, pepper, a 
teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet, add a pint of 
hot cream ; stir until thoroughly hot, and serve * 
in a tureen. 

Queen Soup 

Wash and stew a fowl for an hour with 
enough strong veal broth to cover the meat and 
a bunch of parsley. Bemove the fowl, cut the 



36 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

meat off, and take away the skin. Pound the 
flesh in a mortar and add some bread crumbs, 
that have been soaked in the liquor, and the 
yolks of 5 hard-boiled eggs. Rub this through 
a coarse sieve, then add a quart of boiled cream. 

Cream Cheese Soup— No. 1 

Place a pint of veal stock over the fire; add 
an onion, and boil for fifteen minutes. Strain 
out the onion, and return the stock to the fire. 
Bring a pint of milk to the scalding point, 
thicken with 2 tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed 
into one of butter ; season with celery salt and 
white pepper, and add to the veal stock. Beat 
the yolks of 2 eggs until they are light, stir into 
the veal stock with the thickened milk, add 4 
tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, and 
serve. 

Cream Cheese Soup— No. 2 

Stir together in a saucepan 2 scant cupfuls 
of flour, a pint of rich cream, 4 tablespoonfuls 
of grated Parmesan cheese, and the same 
amount of butter, with a sprinkling of cayenne. 
Set the saucepan in a pan of hot water and stir 
until it forms a smooth paste. Break 2 eggs 
into the mixture, stir briskly until thoroughly 
blended; and let it cook five minutes, and set 
it away to cool. Form the cool paste into balls 
about the size of a walnut, drop them into boil- 



SOUPS 37 

ing water, and cook five minutes. Put them in 
the soup tureen, pour over them boiling stock, 
and serve at once with a dish of grated Par- 
mesan. 

Tomato Cream Soup~No. 1 
Cut up a dozen ripe tomatoes ; place in a 
saucepan and stew until tender. Bub through 
a strainer. Thicken with 3 teaspoonfuls of 
com starch, rubbed to a paste with a teaspoon- 
ful of butter. Pour a quart of scalding milk in 
slowly, in which a pinch of soda has been dis- 
solved. Season with salt, pepper, and sugar. 

Tomato Cream Soup— No. 2 

Stew a quart of tomatoes until soft and then 
rub them through a colander. Add a pinch of 
soda and a teaspoonful of onion juice and re- 
turn to the fire. Put 1 tablespoonful of butter 
and 1 of flour in another saucepan; cook until 
they bubble; then pour a pint of milk upon 
them. When the milk thickens, add the to- 
matoes. Season with salt and pepper, and just 
before serving add a teaspoonful of Worcester- 
shire sauce. 

Onion Cream Soup 

Slice 6 large onions into 1 quart of mutton 
stock, and simmer for an hour. Eub through 
a colander, return to the fire, and thicken with 
2 teaspoonfuls of butter rubbed to a paste with 



38 SOUP& CHOVDERSr AND FISH 

2 of jQour. Heat a pint of milk to the boiling 
point, and stir it into the soup. Season with 
salty white pepper, and a teaspoonful of minoed 
parsley. 

Cream of Beet Soup 

After boiling some young beets in salted 
water for an hour, turn out into cool water until 
they can be handled. Scrape all the skin off 
and chop them very fine. Put the beets in a 
saucepan with a pint of mutton stock, and sim- 
mer for fifteen minutes. Bub through a fine 
colander and place to one side of the range to 
keep hot. Pour a pint of milk upon 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of butter and the same amount of flour, 
which have been cooked to a roux. When it 
becomes thick and smooth, add slowly the beet 
and mutton puree ; season with salt and pepper, 
and when very hot serve. 

Cream of Pea Soup 

Turn off the liquor from a can of peas, and 
pour enough water over the peas to cover them 
well. Let the peas soak for half an hour, drain ; 
put them into a saucepan with a pint of water, 
and boil until they become soft. Eub through 
a colander and add a teaspoonful of sugar. 
Cook in another saucepan 1 teaspoonful of but- 
ter with 1 of flour. Pour in a pint of rich milk, 
and when it is thickened add the pea puree. 



SOUPS » 

Cook for a miniitey season to taste, then turn 
into a heated tureen. Drop a handful of dice 
of fried bread on the soup just before serving. 

Cream of Saeo Soup 

Soak half a cupful of sago for three hours in 
tepid water. Put in an inner boiler with a cup- 
ful of boiling water, and simmer until soft. 
Stir 2 tablespoonfuls of butter rolled in flour 

» 

into 3 cupfuls of hot milk. Add this to the 
sago, beat up well, season with celery salt, pep- 
per, and a little onion juice. Beat up well for 
two minutes, pour slowly upon 2 well-beaten 
eggs ; set in boiling water for two minutes and 
pour out. 

Cream of Turnip Soup 

Wash and pare % dozen turnips and let lie 
in cold water for a quarter of an hour. Drain 
and cut into small pieces. Put into a stewpan 
with 4 ounces of fresh butter and 3 ounces of 
lean ham cut into dice, and stir about over a 
gentle fire for a few minutes. Then add 2 or 
3 onions, 2 sticks of celery; cut up and cover 
all with a pint of white stock. Let simmer 
gently until they are quite soft. Dredge two 
handfuls of flour over them, beating briskly 
meanwhile to avoid lumping and until smooth. 
Then gradually add 2 pinta of white stock and 
stir over the fire until it boils. Rub through a 



40 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

fine sieve and boil up again; add salt, pepper, 
and powdered mace, and when boiling beat in 
% pint of rich cream. Then serve with crou- 
tons on the side. A bay leaf and two or three 
cloves may be added to the other ingredients. 
Sufficient for eight persons. 

Leek Soup 

Into a quart of boiling broth sift gradually 
2 tablespoonfuls of oatmeal, stirring briskly, as 
if making mush. Add as many leeks as re- 
quired for the number to be served, and boil 
until they are tender; stirring occasionally 
from the bottom until the oatmeal ceases to 
settle. It should be of a creamy consistency. 
Take it from the fire and stir in the yolks of 
2 eggs, well beaten, and mix with a little of the 
soup and serve at once. 

Queen Vermicelli Soup 

Boil 1/4 of a pound of vermicelli until ten- 
der; drain, and plunge it in cold water. Put 
it in a saucepan with 2 quarts of well-seasoned 
broth and simmer half an hour. Beat the yolks 
of 8 eggs, and mix well with them y2 or Vs of 
a cup of cream, and add a little grated nutmeg. 
Have the soup just at the boiling point without 
boiling, pour in the egg, stir briskly two min- 
utes, and serve with small triangles of crisp 
toast. The stiffly beaten white of the eggs may 



SOUPS 4f 

be served in spoonfuls floating on the top of 
the soup. 

Cream of Watercress 

Put one quart of white stock, or beef stock 
and water, on the stove with 2 bunches of 
chopped watercress and 1 tablespoonful of but- 
ter. Simmer twenty minutes. When it begins 
to boil, add 1 tablespoonful of butter and 2 
tablespoonfuls of arrowroot cooked thoroughly, 
2 cups of hot milk, ^/^ teaspoonful salt, and a 
dash of cayenne. Garnish with 1 cup of whipped 
cream and =!^ cupful of fresh cress tips. 

Jenny Lind's Soup 

As prepared specially for her by her own cook. 

Wash 1/4 pound best pearl sago till the water 
poured off is clear, then cook, till tender and 
thick, in a quart of cold water or broth, which 
should be heated slowly. Mix gradually with 
this a pint of boiling cream and the yolks of 4 
fresh eggs, then add 2 quarts of strong veal or 
beef stock, boUing hot. Serve at once. 

Chicken Cream Soup 

Boil an old fowl, with an onion, in 4 quarts of 
cold water until reduced to half the original 
quantity. Take out the fowl and let it get cold. 
Cut off the whole of the breast and chop very 



42 SOUPS^ CHOVDER& AND FISH 

fine. Mix with the pounded yolks of 2 hard- 
boiled eggs, and rub through a colander. Cool, 
skim, and strain the soup into a soup-pot. 
Season, add the chicken and egg mixture, sim- 
mer ten minutes, and pour into the tureen. 
Then add a small cup of boiling milk. 

Velvet Soup 

Cook 1 tablespoonful of pearl tapioca or 
sago, previously soaked in cold water, in a 
quart of clear stock or bouillon. When the 
tapioca is cooked clear, beat the yolks of 3 eggs 
lightly, put them in the tureen, and pour the 
soup over, stirring until it becomes uniformly 
smooth and creamy ; add a dash of nutmeg and 
paprika. 

By using extract of beef, and cooking the 
sago or tapioca until clear, a very nourishing 
and quick soup may be made without stock. 

Hulled-Corn Soup 

Mash or chop the corn fine before sifting^ 
then stir in gradually hot milk till it reaches the 
consistency of cream vegetable soup. Add salt 
and pepper to taste, and put on to boil with a 
generous tablespoonful of butter to each quart 
of the mixture. Serve with croutons. If the 
slightly granular character is an objection, the 
usual thickening may be added, of 1 tablespoon- 



SOUPS 43 

f ul each of batter and flour cooked together and 
stirred into the boiling soup. 

If a corn puree is preferred, mash and sift 
the com ; heat, and season with butter, salt, and 
pepper. May be served as a vegetable, or as a 
garnish for sausage or pork chops. 

Cream of Sorrel Soup 

Wash thoroughly about a pint of sorrel, 
break it in pieces, or slightly bruise the leaves. 
Cook it in a tablespoonful of butter and 2 table- 
spoonfuls of water for ten or fifteen minutes, 
or until tender enough to rub through a sieve. 
Put the sieved pulp in a saucepan with a quart 
of white stock and a pint of bechamel sauce, 
season with half a teaspoonful of salt and a 
saltspoonful of pepper, and let it simmer twenty 
minutes. Beat together the yolks of 2 eggs 
and a cupful of cream ; stir it into the hot soup, 
stirring briskly until it thickens. Serve with 
croutons or squares of crisp toast. 

Cream of Barley Soup 

To 3 pints of chicken broth or stock add a 
sliced onion, a small stick of cinnamon, a blade 
of mace, and a cupful of barley. Let it boil up 
and then simmer slowly, for four or five hours, 
and strain through a fine sieve. Put it back in 
the saucepan and add % pint of boiling cream 
or milk with 2 tablespoonf uls of butter ; season 



44 SOUPSf CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

to taste with salt and pepper. Beat the yolks of 
3 eggs, mix with them a cupful of milk; pour 
gradually into the soup, stirring briskly for two 
minutes. It must not boil after the eggs are 
added. Serve with croutons or toasted wafers. 

Cream of Mushroom Soup 

Wash and peel a quart of fresh mushrooms, 
put them into enough boiling water to well 
cover them, and boil until very tender. Mash 
and rub them through a sieve. Add to the pulp 
2 quarts of chicken or veal stock; rub a table- 
spoonful of flour and butter together until 
smooth, stir it into a cupful of rich cream or 
milk, and stir until smooth ; add it to the soup, 
season with salt and pepper, let it boil up, and 

serve. 

Soup h la Grecque 

Boil slowly lA teacupful rice and a little mint 
in 1 quart stock ; then stir in % pint cold stock. 

Beat 3 eggs till thick, add to them the stock 
and rice gradually. Mix well, then pour back 
and return to fire. Add 1 ounce butter and 
juice of 1 lemon; stir well. Just before serv- 
ing add 2 minced' chicken livers. 

Cream of Potato 

3 medium-sized potatoes; V/o pints milk; 
1 egg; 1 tablespoon butter. Salt and pepper 
and finely minced parsley. 



SOUPS 45 



Pare the potatoes and, if the time is very 
limited, cut them in quarters to boil more 
quickly. As soon as done, pour off the water 
and mashy and put through a sieve or potato 
ricer. Have the milk hot, add the potato, bring 
to a boil, and add the seasoning; beat the egg 
untU very foamy, and add at the last moment, 
stirring quickly to prevent any lumpiness. Gar- 
nish with the parsley, about a teaspoonful. 
Serve with hot saltines or any thin wafer. All 
crackers or toast should be crisp when served 
with soups; the crispness means only a few 
minutes in a hot oven, and is one of the little 
points that should not be overlooked. A little 
celery salt may be added, or a few drops of 
onion juice, or both. 

Quickly Made Tomato and Macaroni Soup 

Break a cupful of the egg macaroni into 
small pieces, cover with a quart of boiling 
salted water, and simmer slowly for an hour. 
Add 1 cup of stewed, strained, and seasoned 
tomatoes ; cook a moment, and just before serv- 
ing add one cup of cream or rich milk. 

Cream of Cabbage Soup 

Chop the cabbage fine, and cook in boiling 
salted water until quite tender. Just before 
serving pour off most of the water; add milk, 
pepper, a little more salt, if necessary, and 



SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 



thicken with flour to a creamy consistency. 
This soup deserves to be much more generally 
known than it is. 

Virelnia Oyster Soup 

Take 1 quart of good oysters and wash 
through two waters. Strain the liquor and add 
to it 2 blades of mace, a stalk of celery chopped 
fine, y2 teaspoonful of white pepper, a few 
grains of cayenne, and salt if necessary. Sim- 
mer over the fire five minutes, then add 2 table* 
spoonfuls of butter rubbed smooth with 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour and a pint and a half of rich 
cream and new milk, half and half. Let it come 
to a good boil, stirring all the time; then put 
in the oysters, and let them boil up once and no 
more, or they will shrivel and toughen. Pour 
into a hot tureen and give thanks. 

Peanut Soup 

Since the many really good preparations of 
nuts, in the form of nut butter, have been put 
on the market, nut soups may be quickly made. 
These soups are said to have a distinctly meaty 
flavor, that of nuts being partially transformed 
in the blending with the other ingredients. For 
an emergency soup the following is one of the 
most easily made : 

% cup of peanut butter ; 1 pint milk ; liquor 



1 



SOUPS 47 

strained from 1 pint of oysters. Salt and 
paprika. 

Eub the peanut butter to a smooth paste with 
a little of the milk, and add, stirring thoroughly, 
the remainder of the milk (heated) ; put over the 
fire and simmer slowly until it thickens, then 
add the hot oyster liquor, which has been 
brought thoroughly to a boil and skinmied. Add 
the seasoning and serve with saltine crackers. 

Instead of the oyster liquor the juice may 
be strained from a can of tomatoes. Bring it 
to a boil, and add a pinch of soda before put- 
ting it with the milk and nuts. 

Nut and Tomato Soup 

1 pint of strained tomatoes ; 1 pint water ; 1 
pint milk ; 2 tablespoonf uls of peanut butter. 

Put the nut butter in a dish and add a little 
water; rub smooth with a spoon, and add a 
little more water until it is of the consistency 
of thick cream. Put the tomatoes, water, and 
prepared butter on the fire and let boil ten min- 
utes. When ready to take off add the milk, and 
season with salt and cayenne. 

Instead of the nut butter 1 pint roasted and 
shelled peanuts may be used, or one-half pea- 
nuts and one-half chestnuts or pecans. Bemove 
the brown husks from the peanuts, pound to a 
paste in a mortar with a little hot water, add 



tt SOUPS, CHOWI»RS; AND PBH 

a little cream or milk, blending thoronghly; 
then proceed the same as with the nnt butter. 

Cream of Spinach with Ess Balis 

2 quarts spinach; 1 quart milk; 1 level tea- 
spoonful salt; 1 tablespoonful butter; 1 table- 
spoonful flour ; ^ saltspoonf ul cayenne. 

Wash the spinach through several waters to 
remove all trace of sand, carefully examining 
each stalk to be sure that no insects cling to the 
leaves. Washing for the last time in strong 
salted water will remove them. Lift the leaves 
out of the water and put on to boil; no water 
is needed, as that which drains from the leaves 
is sufficient until it begins to cook, when its own 
juice will be all that is necessary to prevent its 
burning. Boil until soft enough to put through 
a coarse strainer or colander; twenty minutes 
should be sufficient. Rub through the strainer, 
add the milk, heated to boiling point; then 
thicken with the flour which has been rubbed 
into the butter; season, and serve with egg 
balls. 

Ess Balls 

2 hard-boiled eggs ; 1 raw egg ; 1 tablespoon- 
ful flour or fine cracker crumbs ; 2 teaspoonf uls 
melted butter; y^ teaspoonf ul salt; a dash of 
cayenne ; a little grated nutmeg; a few drops of 
lemon juice. 



SOUPS 49 

Rub the boiled egg yolks very smooth, mince 
one of the whites very fine. Mix together, add 
the seasoning and flour or crumbs. Stir all 
together with enough of the slightly beaten raw 
egg to bind and form into balls the size of a 
nutmeg, rolling into the egg and crumbs after 
shaping. Drop the balls into the boiling soup 
and cook until firm; about five minutes. Or 
they may be fried to a golden brown in deep 
boiling fat. Serve in the tureen with the soup. 

Cream of Chestnuts 

1^ pints of French or Italian chestnuts; 1 
pint rich cream; 1 pint chicken, or any good 
white stock ; 1 tablespoonf ul butter ; 1 teaspoon- 
ful salt; y^ saltspoonful white pepper. 

Pour boiling water over the chestnuts, and let 
them stand a few minutes to blanch ; remove the 
brown skins. Put 1 pint of nuts in a covered 
saucepan and put on to boil in water enough 
to cover them well. Cook until they begin to 
get soft, about twenty minutes, then add the 
stock and boil fifteen minutes longer. While 
these are cooking cut the remaining ^ pint of 
nuts into dice, or quarters. When the nuts 
have cooked very soft, strain them and return 
to the saucepan, add the cream and diced nuts, 
bring to a boil, and simmer gently for five or 
ten minutes; add the salt, pepper, and butter, 



1 



50 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

and serve very hot in cups with small crackers 
or thin wafers. 

Cream of Asparagus 

2 bunches of asparagus ; 1 small onion ; 1 pint 
milk; ^4 P"^* rich cream; 1 tablespoon butter; 
1 tablespoon flour ; salt and pepper. 

Cut off the asparagus tips and boil sepa- 
rately to use as salad. Cut the stalks in short 
pieces to facilitate straining, boil in one pint of 
salted water until tender ; mash and strain, with 
the water in which they were cooked, through 
a colander. liift the tips carefully from the 
water, keeping them imbroken. Add this water 
to the asparagus pulp, put it with the hot milk. 

Cream of Lettuce 

Cleanse carefully about 3 heads of lettuce, re- 
moving all the dead leaves. Place into the 
inner pan of a double boiler, and bring to boil- 
ing as quickly as possible, so as to retain the 
color. When tender press through a fine sieve, 
place back into the saucepan over the fire ; add 
iy2 pints of white stock and bring to a boil. 
Stir smooth a tablespoon of flour with a little 
milk or water, and add to the soup, stirring 
briskly, until of a creamy consistency. Then 
add a tablespoonf ul of butter ; season with salt 
and pepper, a little sugar, and a dash of mace. 
Serve very hot. 



SOUPS 51 

Cream of Celory 

2 heads of celery; 1 small onion; 1 quart of 
milk; 2 tablespoons butter; 1 tablespoon flour 
or arrowroot; 1 teaspoon salt; % saltspoon 
white pepper. 

Remove the tender heart of the celery for 
serving alone, using the outside stalks for the 
soup. Cut these in pieces and put on to boil 
with the best of the leaves and the onion cut 
in quarters, in water enough to well cover. 
Boil slowly until soft; strain through a coarse 
sieve, add the milk, butter, and thickening ; boil 
very slowly ten miuutes; add salt and pepper, 
and serve. 

Cream of Cauliflower 

This is made the same as cream of celery, 
dividing the flowers into small sections, cook- 
ing and straining, and proceeding the same as 
in the other cream soups. 

Cream of Green Peas 

1 quart green peas ; 1 small onion ; 1 teaspoon 
sugar ; 1 pint rich milk ; 1 tablespoon rice flour ; 
2 tablespoons butter. Salt and pepper. 

Cut the onion in half and cook with the peas 
in enough boiling water to cover. When the 
peas are cooked soft, take out the onion and 
strain through a coarse sieve. Return the pulp 
to the saucepan, add the sugar and milk ; when 



52 SOUPS, OfOWDERSr AND FISH 

hot add the rice flour stirred up with a little 
cold milk; then add the butter, cook until it 
thickens ; add the pepper and more salt if neces- 
sary. A cup of whipped cream to the well- 
beaten white of an eggy added just before serv- 
ingy makes it more delicate. It must not cook 
or stand after the addition of the cream and 
the egg. 

BISQUES 

This term is given to a class of soups which 
in making become thicker than broths, by 
reason of the crumbs and minced meat which 
are added. It is a very popular soup for the 
family dinner, although for formal dinners 
those varieties which are made from shellfish 
are also in favor. 

They should be carefully seasoned and the 
ingredients kept together. 

Clam Bisque 

1 quart clams, with their juice; 1 pint water; 
1 quart milk ; i/^ small onion ; 1 tablespoon but- 
ter ; 1 tablespoon flour ; i/^ saltspoon white pep- 
per ; salt as needed. 

Pick over the clams and chop very fine. Put 
them in the cold water, heat rather quickly ; add 
the onion, also chopped fine, and boiled gently 
until all the goodness is extracted from the 



SOUPS 53 

dams. Let the clam juice settle, pour it off 
from the sediment, bring it to a boil, and skim. 
Strain the liquor from the cooked clams 
through a fine strainer or cheesecloth, and add 
to the skimmed pieces. Heat the milk, thicken 
it with the flour and butter rubbed smoothly 
together ; add it to the hot clam juice ; add the 
seasoning, boil until it thickens, and serve very 
hot. 

Bisque of Halibut 

Boil a pound of fresh halibut in 2 waters. 
Free from all pieces of skin and bones. Then 
mince it fine. Stir the fish into a quart of white 
stock and season with salt, pepper, and a spoon- 
ful of minced parsley. Put 2 tablespoonfuls 
of butter and 1 of flour into a saucepan. Cook 
until they become thoroughly blended, then add 
a cupful of milk, and stir until the milk 
thickens. Turn the thickened milk into the pot 
with the fish and stock. Let it all boil up once, 
and then pour out into the tureen. It is well 
to add half a cupful of powdered cracker 
crumbs just before the fish stock is mixed with 
the milk. Cod can be instituted for halibut if 
desired. 

Cliicken Bisque 

Cover the joints of a fowl with cold water, 
using a quart for each pound. Add a large 



54 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 



minced onion and 3 stalks of finely minced 
celery. Place a cover on the saucepan, and 
cook slowly until the flesh will slip from the 
bones. Put all aside to cool. When cold, skim, 
remove the bones and meat, and chop fine. 

While the soup is heating, turn a cupful of 
milk into another saucepan, to which a pinch 
of soda has been added. Thicken the milk with 
a tablespoonful of butter rubbed into a tea- 
spoonful of flour, and add a tablespoonful of 
minced parsley. 

After the soup has boiled for a few minutes, 
stir into it the chopped chicken and a cupful 
of soaked cracker crumbs. Boil one minute, 
then beat in the milk and butter and pour out 
into the tureen. 

Salmon Bisque 

Open and turn out the contents of a can of 
salmon several hours before you are ready to 
make the soup. Pick the salmon to pieces with 
a silver fork and remove all the skin and bones. 
Put into an agate vessel with enough boiling 
water to cover, and let it simmer gently for 
about thirty minutes. Drain the water off and 
break the salmon to a soft mass. Heat a pint 
of milk in a double boiler with half a cupful of 
cracker crumbs and a pinch of soda. Stir in 
a pint of veal stock that has been well seasoned, 



SOUPS 55 

and thicken with 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 
rubbed into 2 of butter. 

When it becomes thick and smooth, stir in the 
minced fish ; season well with paprika and salt, 
and serve. 

This is fine when made of fresh boiled 

salmon. 

Oyster Bisque 

Add enough cold water to the liquor drained 
from a quart of oysters to make a quart. Chop 
the oysters fine, and stir into this. Place in a 
porcelain-lined saucepan and cook gently for 
twenty minutes. Have ready a quart of heated 
milk, in which a pinch of soda has been dis- 
solved, and % a cupful of cracker crumbs, 
soaked. Cook 2 tablespoonfuls of butter and 
2 of flour until they become perfectly blended; 
then pour upon them the quart of thickened 
boiling milk. Stir until it becomes thick and 
creamy. Now turn in the oyster soup, and 
season to taste with salt and pepper. 

Pour a cupful of the soup upon the well- 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs, stirring constantly. 
When thoroughly mixed, place back in the 
saucepan, stir for a moment, and pour at once 
into a heated tureen. 

Bisque of Lobster 

Eemove meat from shell, cut into dice ; tough, 
hard pieces may be put into 1 pint cold water, 



56 SOUPS, CHOWDERS^ AND FISH 

with the bones, and boiled twenty minutes, add- 
ing water as it boils away. 

Dry the coral in the oven on a piece of paper. 

Boil 1 quart milk ; thicken with 1 tablespoon- 
f ul butter and 2 of flour or com starch ; boil ten 
minutes, and add the water, from the bones 
after straining. 

Season with 1 teaspoonf ul salt, 1 saltspoonful 
white pepper, y^ saltspoonful cayenne. The 
dried coral should be rubbed through a strainer, 
and use enough to color the soup a bright pink. 
Put the lobster dice and green fat into tureen 
and strain over them the boiling soup. Serve 
immediately. % cup of fine cracker crumbs 
may be used as additional thickening. 

A satisfactory variation will be found in 
using 1 pint veal or chicken stock and 1 pint 
milk, and the addition of force-meat balls made 
by pounding half the lobster meat to fine paste, 
adding yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, 1 teaspoon- 
f ul butter, a little salt and pepper. Heat a raw 
egg, and use enough to moisten the paste so it 
can easily be formed into balls of nutmeg size ; 
then simmer them in the soup for five minutes, 
only long enough to cook the egg. 

Bisque of Craba 

Boil 6 hard-shell crabs, in enough water to 
cover them well, for ten minutes, with 1 table- 



SOUPS 57 

spoonful salt. Take out with skimmer; when 
cold pick out the meat, keeping the meat from 
the claws separate. Chop the remaining meat 
fine, put in a saucepan with 1 cupful rice, 2 
quarts boiling water, % bay leaf, 2 cloves, 10 
whole peppers, and a sliced onion. 

Boil one hour. Strain, and return to sauce- 
pan ; add 1 cupful milk or cream, and the meat 
from the claws, picked fine. Season with salt 
and pepper ; let all come to a boil, and serve. 

Corn Bisque 

Drain the liquor from a can of com. Chop 
the com very fine, turn into a saucepan con- 
taining a quart of salted water, and simmer 
gently for an hour. Then rub through a col- 
ander; place again over the fire, add a tea- 
spoonful of sugar and 2 tablespoonf uls of but- 
ter rubbed into 2 of flour. Stir until it becomes 
smooth, and then pour slowly upon a pint of 
heated milk. 

Season to taste with salt, and then pour 
slowly upon 2 well-beaten eggs. Serve at once. 

Cheese Bisque 

Bring a pint of milk containing a pinch of 
soda to the scalding point. Add to this a cup- 
ful of chicken or lamb stock, in which an onion 
has been boiled, and a cupful of water in which 
rice has been cooked. Cook until it can be run 



a SOUPS^ CHOVDERS> AND FISH 

through a strainer. Put 2 tablespoonful^ of 
butter and 2 of flour into a good-sized sauce- 
pan and cook until thoroughly blended; then 
pour the white soup into the vessel and stir 
until it thickens to the consistency of cream. 
Beat in % cupful of grated cheese. Have 2 
well-beaten eggs in a bowl, and on these slowly 
pour a cupful of the hot soup, beating con- 
stantly to prevent the mixture from curdling. 
Now return the soup, with the eggs, to that 
which is on the fire. Beat for a moment, season 
well with salt and pepper, and serve. This is 
very good when properly made. 

Tomato Bisque 

Chop 2 cupfuls of fresh tomatoes; 1 pint of 

skimmed gravy or of strong stock ; 1 cupful of 

fine bread crumbs soaked half an hour in hot 

milk; 1 teaspoonful of butter cooked with 1 of 

fiour ; some chopped parsley ; cook together five 

minutes, run through a vegetable sieve; stir in 

the stock and the seasoning, and return to fire. 

Simmer twenty minutes, then add the soaked 

crumbs and parsley. Cook five minutes, stir in 

a little baking soda, and serve at once. Canned 

tomatoes can be used if fresh ones are not at 

hand. 

Mock Bisque 

Bring to a boil 1 pint of tomatoes, 1 bay leaf, 
and a sprig of parsley. Boil slowly for ten or 



[ 



SOUPS 59 



fifteen minutes. Add 1 teaspoonful of sugar 
and Vs teaspoonful of soda, then press through 
a fine sieve and season with salt and pepper. 
Have ready a pint of milk, heat it in a double 
boiler and thicken with 1 tablespoonful of but- 
ter rubbed into the same amount of flour. Add 
the heated milk to the strained tomato, and 
serve immediately with croutons. If not ready 
to serve the soup, do not add the soda or mix 
the tomatoes, but keep hot until needed and 
serve as soon as fixed. 

SOUPS WITH MEAT, AND PURfeES 

Green Pea Puree 

Boil until tender a quart of shelled peas in 
salted hot water with a young onion, a few 
sprigs of parsley, and 6 mint leaves. Eub 
through a colander and return to the fire. Add 
half a cupful of good stock, season with salt and 
pepper and a little sugar. Let it boil two min- 
utes, then thicken with a tablespoonful of butter 
rolled in flour. Cook one minute longer, and 
pour upon croutons of fried bread dice in the 
tureen. 

Red Bean Pur£e 

Soak a pint of red kidney beans in cold water 
for several hours. Drain, and put them in a 
saucepan with enough white broth or stock to 



60 SOUPSr CHOWDERS^ AND FISH 

well cover them. Cook slowly until very soft; 
mash and rub them through a sieve. Add 2 or 
3 slices of salt pork (diced), 2 onions, a carrot, 
salt and pepper, and a bouquet of herbs. Pour 
over them a quart of good stock, or a pint of 
stock and a pint of water, and simmer together 
for an hour. Strain ; add half a glass of claret. 
Heat, and serve with croutons. 

Lima Bean Pur£e 

Cook the beans for ten minutes in boiling 
water; drain, rinse; put again into plenty of 
boiling water, cook till perfectly tender. Press 
the pulp through strainer; add milk or cream 
to make it of the usual consistency ; and to each 
quart add a tablespoonful each of butter and 
flour cooked together, and stirred into the boil- 
ing liquid. Season with pepper and salt ; serve 
with wafers. 

Carrot Pur6e 

Use only the outer, dark-colored portion of 
the carrots. Scrape, wash, and cut in dice 
enough to make a cupful. Fry them in 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter until slightly browned. 
Pour over them enough broth to well cover, and 
simmer until soft. Let it cook until reduced to 
a thick pulp. Stir in 5 or 6 tablespoonfuls of 
bechamel sauce, and strain through a fine 
strainer. Add 6 pints of white broth and 



SOUPS 6S 

strain again, and put it on the fire and stir nntil 
it bubbles; then set it aside to cool and skim 
off all fat from the top. Beat the yolks of 4 
eggs, mix them with half a cup of cream, and 
strain through a sieve into the puree ; then put 
it over the fire and stir until it thickens. It 
must not boil. Add a few noodles and a lump 
of butter the size of an egg; pour into a hot 
tureen, and serve. 

Tomato Purte with Macaroni 

1 can tomatoes ; 1 pint beef stock ; 1 cup boiled 
macaroni ; 1 stick chopped celery ; 1 sprig pars- 
ley; 1 teasponful sugar; % teaspoonful salt; 
y^ saltspoon pepper ; 1 blade mace ; 1 bay leaf ; 
1 tablespoonf ul each chopped onion, butter, and 
flour cooked together. 

Cook the tomatoes, parsley, celery, and sea- 
soning slowly together for an hour. Strain 
through a coarse sieve or colander, then add the 
cooked flour and butter, and the stock. Stir all 
together until thoroughly blended. Cut the 
macaroni in inch pieces and add ; let it simmer 
a few minutes and serve. The macaroni may 
be omitted and croutons served with the puree. 

Oatmeal Pur^e 

1^ cups cooked oatmeal; 2 small onions, 
chopped; 1 cup celery, chopped; 1 pint milk; 



a SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

1 tablespoon butter; 1 teaspoon salt; % salt- 
spoon white pepper; 1 teaspoon chopped pars- 
ley. 

Boil the onion and celery in a pint of water 
until nearly done; add the oatmeal mnsh and 
continue to cook until all is soft, adding more 
boiling water if it becomes too thick. Strain 
through a rather coarse strainer, pressing the 
pulp through with a spoon. Add the milk, 
bring to a boil, then add the butter and other 
seasoning, sprinkling in the chopped parsley 
just before serving. 

This makes a good nursery soup, either with 
or without the addition of a teaspoonful of ex- 
tract of beef. If liked, a blade of mace may 
be cooked in before straining. 

Tomato and Green Pea Purte 

% can tomatoes (or same amount of fresh to- 
matoes cut in pieces) ; 1 pint shelled green peas; 
1 small onion; 1 pint stock; 1 pint water; 1 
teaspoon sugar ; 1 tablespoon flour ; 1 teaspoon 
salt ; a dash each of paprika and white pepper. 

Canned peas may be used, in which case pour 
off the water in which they are canned. Slice 
the onion and put in a saucepan with the to- 
matoes and peas. Add the sugar and salt. 

Pour over it the boiling water and cook 
slowly until soft. Eub through a coarse 



SOUPS ^ 

straineF ; put the pulp back in the saucepan, add 
the stock. Bub the flour smooth with a little 
cold stock; then add some of the hot liquor, 
stirring it until perfectly smooth ; add it to the 
soup, boil until the flour is cooked, add pepper, 
and serve with croutons or crisp saltines. 

No. 2-Without Stock 

Cook the tomatoes, peas, and onion as in the 
preceding ; omit the stock and add one pint milk 
in its place, and 1 tablespoon butter rubbed to 
a paste with the flour. V^ pint rich cream, 
whipped light and added when taken from the 
fire, is an improvement. 

Tomato Pur£e 

% teaspoonful of extract of beef; 1 onion; 
1 bay leaf ; 1 sprig of parsley ; 4 cupf uls of to- 
matoes ; 2 cupf uls of hot water ; 2 teaspoonf uls 
of sugar ; 2 teaspoonf uls butter ; ^4 teaspoonful 
cloves; 14 teaspoon of allspice; 3 tablespoon- 
f uls of flour ; 2 or 3 drops of onion extract ; salt 
and pepper to taste. 

Brown the onion (sliced) in the butter, add 
the flour, and brown. Add the tomatoes, pars- 
ley, spices, bay leaf, and sugar ; simmer fifteen 
minutes. Add the extract dissolved in hot 
water, strain the soup through a puree sieve, 
and return to the kettle. Heat and serve. 



64 SOUPS* CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

Quenelle Soup 

Into a cupful of boiling water put a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, add a pinch of salt, 
and stir in sufficient flour to make a rather 
thick, smooth paste. Turn it out and set away 
to cool. 

Cut into small pieces a % pound of nice lean 
veal, and pound them thoroughly in a mortar, 
adding, a little at a time, 2 ounces of the cold 
paste and 3 ounces of butter; beat these well 
together and add the beaten yolks of 2 eggs and 
the white of 1, and season well with salt and 
pepper and grated nutmeg. Rub the whole 
through a fine sieve; add a little thick cream, 
and with 2 teaspoons form it into quenelles, or 
small balls. Place these in the bottom of a 
saucepan, pour over them carefully enough 
boiling stock to cover them, and cook gently a 
few minutes. Pour into a hot tureen the re- 
quired amount of hot soup or broth, add the 
quenelles and the stock in which they were 
boiled, and serve. 

Parisian-Spanish Soup 

Chop 4 good-sized onions, and fry them in a 
tablespoonful of butter and a teaspoonful of 
sugar until a light golden brown. Put them in 
a saucepan with 2 quarts of hot stock, add a 
little minced parsley, a bay leaf, 2 small sweet 



SOUPS 65 

red peppers, or 3 or 4 whole peppercorns. Boil 
all together fifteen minutes; add more salt if 
necessary. 

Put thin, crisp slices of toast in the tureen, 
sprinkle them with pepper, pour the soup over, 
and serve at once. 

Parisian Soup 

» 

Cut 4 or 5 leeks into strips and fry in a little 
butter. Add to them a quart of good mutton 
etock; add salt and pepper to taste. Add 6 
boiled potatoes cut into slices, and boil all to- 
gether until the leeks are thoroughly cooked. 
Serve in a tureen with croutons strewn over the 

top. 

Velvet Soup Maigrre 

This is a very simple and economical soup, as 
there is no meat in it. Cook some tapioca in 
water with a little salt and pepper. Put a lump 
of butter in a tureen and the yolks of 2 or 3 
eggs. Pour the boiling tapioca over the eggs 
and butter, stir up well, and serve. 

Scotch Hotchpotch 

Strain and remove all the fat from 2 quarts 
of good mutton or lamb broth, add 2 grated 
carrots and 3 sliced ones, enough young tur- 
nips, onion, parsley, and lettuce to make a quart 
of shred vegetables. Then take a pint of young 
green peas and a pint of cauliflower sprigs, 



66 SOUPS, CHOVDERS, AND FISH 

and add to the stock with the exception of half 
of the peas. Stew all slowly for half an hour. 
Trim 2 pounds of lamb or mutton cutlets, and 
add with the remainder of the peas to the 
stock. Season with pepper, salt, and chopped 
parsley; simmer gently immediately. 

A Simple Onion Soup 

Mince half a dozen medium-sized onions very 
finely. Put in a stewpan over a slow fire with 
3 ounces of melted butter, dredge a little flour 
over them, and shake about until they are soft 
and lightly browned. 

Add a quart of boiling water, and season with 
salt and pepper and a grated nutmeg. Have 2 
well-beaten eggs in the tureen; after the soup 
has boiled up well, stir in among the eggs, and 
serve at once. It should take about half an 
hour for this soup to cook. 

Sago Soup (Hawaiian Recipe) 

Wash 1/4 cup pearl sago through several cold 
waters; cook slowly in 1 quart water till the 
sago is transparent; add a pinch of salt, a 
2-inch piece stick cinnamon, % cup seeded and 
chopped raisins ; and just before serving y^ pint 
of fruit juice and 2 tablespoonf uls sugar. 

Cock-a-Leekie 

Boil a young fowl until tender in 2 quarts 
of white stock. Take out the fowl and set to 



SOUPS 67 

one side. Wash and cat off the roots and part 
of the healds of 2 nice bunches of leeks, then 
cut into 1-inch lengths. Put them into the 
broth, add i^ pound of boiled rice, add a little 
salt and pepper. Boil for half an hour. After 
cutting the fowl into neat joints, put it in the 
soup, let it boil up well, then serve at once. The 
soup can be served without adding the fowl. 

Lettuce Soup 

Wash thoroughly and drain the water from a 
dozen lettuce hearts. Cut them down the cen- 
tres, leaving the stems whole. Dash them with 
salt and pepper. Put them in a saucepan with 
a pint of chicken consomme and the same of 
veal broth ; add an onion, a carrot, a few sprigs 
of parsley, a clove, a blade of mace, a bay leaf, 
and a little thyme. Put a sheet of buttered 
paper over the top of the saucepan and put the 
lid on tightly ; boil gently two hours. Take out 
the lettuce, drain on a towel, cut them in two, 
and put them in the soup tureen, where they 
will keep hot. Strain the stock in which they 
were boiled, add 3 pints more of boiling broth 
and pour it over the lettuce, and serve with 
nicely browned pieces of toast on the top. 

Soup of Herbs with Parmesan 

Wash in several waters a handful each of 
chervil, chives, and sorrel, and a head of tender 



68 SOUPS^ CH0^rDER3, AND FISH 

celery; add a very little tarragon and a few 
sprigs of parsley. Drain all these free from 
water and cut them in small pieces. Put them 
in a saucepan and pour over 3 pints of clear 
stock or broth, and boil until all are ten- 
der. 

Slice some French rolls and cut them in small 
rounds the size of a half-dollar, dip them in 
hot butter, and roll in finely grated Parmesan, 
having them well covered. Put them in a shal- 
low baking tin or on a sheet of paper on an in- 
verted pan, and brown lightly in the oven. 
Pour the soup in the tureen and put the toast 

on the top. 

Flemish Soup 

Cut into small pieces carrots, onions, and 
turnips in equal quantities sufficient to make 2 
cupf uls ; add 2 leeks cut in small pieces, a small 
head of lettuce, breaking the leaves in two or 
more pieces, a little chervil, and a head of 
endive. Put these in a saucepan with a lump 
of butter the size of a walnut, pour over them a 
pint of beef or mutton broth, and boil until the 
vegetables are all tender, stirring frequently. 
Add 2 quarts of boiling broth, a teaspoonful 
of sugar, salt and pepper as required, and sim- 
mer one hour; just before serving beat the 
yolks of 3 eggs light with a half-pint of rich 
cream, and stir briskly into the soup. 



SOUPS 69 

Family Soup 

Put any meat bones from dressed meats, to- 
gether with trimmings of poultry and scraps of 
meat, into a stewpan. Add to the meat 2 
onions which have been stuck with 5 cloves; 2 
carrots, 1 turnip, a little celery seed, tied in a 
piece of muslin, bunch savory herbs, 1 sprig 
parsley, a little mace, and pepper and salt to 
taste. Pour 3 or 4 quarts of cold water over 
this, and let simmer gently for several hours. 
Strain through a fine sieve. This makes a good 
foundation for any soup. 

French Soup 

Put 4 pounds of meat into a stock pot with 3 
quarts of water; set over slow fire and let it 
boil gently, carefully taking off scum that will 
rise to the top. Pour in teacupful of cold water 
to help scum to rise. When no more scum 
rises, add 3 small sliced carrots, 3 medium-sized 
onions, 2 cut-up turnips, 1 head of celery, 1 
bunch thyme, 1 bay leaf, a little parsley tied 
together, and 2 teaspoonfuls salt. Let all boil 
gently for two hours. If necessary, add more 
water. 

Dried-Bean Soup 

Soak 1 quart of kidney, field, rice, or mock- 
turtle beans overnight. In the morning put 
them in a closely covered soup-pot with 2 



70 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

pounds of salt pork, which has been cut up into 
small pieces, and 1 gallon of cold water. Boil 
three hours, add 1 teaspoonful of sugar. 
Strain, and serve with slices of lemon. Some 
small force-meat balls and slices of hard-boiled 
eggs can be dropped in the tureen at the last 
moment. 

Hard-Pea Soup 

Soak 2 pounds of split peas overnight in 
water, to which a little soda has been added. 
All the peas that float should be thrown away. 
Strain out the peas and place them in 2 quarts 
of stock. Add a head of celery, a cut-down 
carrot, a large onion or 2 small ones, and 
season with a pinch of curry powder or a little 
cayenne pepper. Boil with a lid on the pot 
until all is soft. Skim off the scum occasion- 
ally, and then strain carefully into a heated 
tureen, beating the pulp through the strainer 
with a spoon. Serve as hot as possible, placing 
a cupful of crumbled bread crumbs into the 
tureen before the soup is dished. 

Cocoanut Soup 

2 pounds veal and a knuckle bone; 1 cocoa- 
nut ; 2 quarts water ; 1 cup cream ; 1 egg ; 1 table- 
spoon arrowroot or nice flour; 1 tablespoon 
butter ; salt and pepper ; a blade of mace. 

Binse the veal in cold water^ wipe dry, and 



SOUPS 71 

cut in small pieces. Have the bone well 
cracked. Put it into the kettle with £he cold 
water and cook slowly until the meat is very 
tender and the water has evaporated nearly 
one-half. Add the grated cocoanut and simmer 
for another half-hour. Strain, and add the 
milk of the cocoanut and the cream. Let it 
come to a boil, and add the arrowroot or flour ; 
rub to a cream with the butter. Salt and pep- 
per to taste; let it boU until it thickens. Ee- 
move from the fir^ and add in the lightly beaten 
egg, stirring briskly. 

Serve at once with small triangles of crisp 
toasted bread. This soup should not be allowed 
to stand long after the egg is added. 

Mock-Turtle Soup 

1 calf's head; 3 pounds lean veal; 3 pounds 
beef -shank; 5 quarts water; 1 slice good ham; 

1 carrot; 1 turnip; 1 celery root; 2 onions; 1 
bunch parsley; a bunch of savory herbs, or 2 
teaspoons mixed dry herbs; 1 blade mace; 1 
small stick cinnamon ; 6 cloves ; 6 peppercorns ; 

2 teaspoons salt; 1 lemon; a wineglass sherry 
wine. 

Select a large, fine head with well-filled 
cheeks and good tongue. Wash, clean, and 
scrape the head, and let it soak for half an hour 
in cold water. Take out the brain and tongue 



72 SOUPS, CHOITDERS, AND FISH 



and set aside in cold water, to be used in other 
dishes. 

Cut the head in small pieces and put it in 
the water with the skin side up to prevent its 
sticking to the kettle. Heat slowly and skim 
thoroughly. Let it simmer for two hours, 
when the meat should slip easily from the bone. 
Lift out of the kettle and remove the meat care- 
fully from the face and any other nice parts. 

Betum the bones to the kettle ; add the veal, 
beef, and brain, cut in small pieces ; put in the 
sliced onion and the other vegetables, herbs, 
and spices, and simmer for three hours. The 
liquor should then be reduced to about 3 quarts. 

While the soup is boiling, cut the meat 
taken from the face into dice to be returned 
to the soup. Strain the soup, cool, and re- 
move the fat. Put the liquor into a clean 
saucepan and add 1 scant cup of the diced meat 
to each quart of soup; bring to a boil; stir 
in a brown thickening made by rubbing to- 
gether 2 tablespoons brown flour and the same 
of butter. Boil until the flour is suflSciently 
cooked, stirring frequently. 

With the remaining bits of meat make force- 
meat balls, using a portion of the brains. Add 
the sherry wine, a spoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce, or tomato. 

Put the force-meat balls into the tureen ; have 



SOUPS 73 

the soup very hot, and pour over. Serve with 
very thin slices of lemon. 

Turkey Soup 

Take the carcass and all that is left of a roast 
turkey. Cut all the good bits of meat from the 
bones and put it aside by itself; take out the 
stuffing and set it aside. Crack the bones and 
put them with any scraps of meat in a kettle 
with cold water enough to well cover them. 
Add 1 chopped onion, 1 teaspoonful salt, and a 
little pepper. After it has simmered two 
hours, or until the bones are clean, strain 
through a colander, cool, and remove the fat. 

Put on the fire and put in the sliced meat, 
both light and dark, in the proportion of 1 cup- 
ful to a quart of stock. Add a few spoonfuls 
of the stuffing. Let all simmer together for 
half an hour and serve. If there is no stuffing 
left, add more seasoning, and thicken with 
browned flour and butter. 

Chicken or any other fowl or game can be 
used in the same way. 

White Bean Soup 

Soak 3 cupfuls of dried white beans for eight 
hours. Drain, and then cover them with 2 
quarts of boiling water. Boil the beans until 
they are tender and broken to pieces. Bub 
them through a sieve and return to the fire with 



^1 SOUPS, CHOVDERS» AND FISH 

the water they were boiled in. Add a quart of 
stock, in which a piece of corned beef or a ham 
has been boiled. If too salt, add other sonp 
stock. Boil for an hour, season to taste; stir 
in a tablespoonful of butter which has been 
rolled in 1 tablespoonful of flour and put into 
the tureen. Put a handful of croutons on the 
surface of the soup. 

Spinach Soup 

Pick over, wash, and stem half a peck of 
spinach, put in the inner vessel of a double 
boiler, with boiling water in the outer, and cook 
tender. Rub the spinach through the vegetable 
press back into the saucepan. Add a pint of 
good stock; season with salt, pepper, a tea- 
spoonful of sugar, and a pinch of mace. Quickly 
bring it to a boil, stir in a tablespoonful of but- 
ter rolled in a teaspoonf ul of flour, and cook for 
one minute. 

Both celery and cauliflower are good used in 
the same way. 

Farmer's Chowder 

Parboil and slice 6 good potatoes. Chop 
and fry half a pound of salt pork, and when it 
begins to crisp add a minced onion and cook to 
a light brown. Pack the potatoes, pork, and 
onion in a soup-kettle, sprinkling each layer 
with minced parsley and pepper. Add the hot 



SOUPS 75 

pork fat ; cover with a pint of boiling water, and 
cook gently for half an honr. Turn into a col- 
ander and drain the liqnor back into the pot. 

Have a pint of hot milk ready, into which a 
tablespoonfnl of butter rolled in flour has been 
stirred. Place this in the kettle containing the 
liquor, cook one minute, add the potatoes to the 
kettle, and serve. 

Succotash Soup 

String and cut the string beans into inch 
lengths, then shred each inch into thin strips. 
Grate the kernels from six ears of com, and 
boil the corn-cobs twenty minutes in a quart of 
cleared beef stock. Take the cobs from the stock 
and add the grated com and shredded beans. 
Boil for twenty-five minutes. Make a pint of 
tomato sauce, thickened and seasoned as usual, 
and pour the stock containing the com and 
beans upon this. Season to taste, and serve 
very hot, without straining. This soup can be 
made in winter from canned com and string 
beans. 

Tomato and Bean Soup 

Pour 3 pints of cold water over beef-bones 
and place on the fire. Add half a sliced carrot, 
2 stalks of refuse celery, and a grated onion. 
Simmer slowly for four hours in a covered pot, 
until the liquid is reduced to one-half. 



76 SOUPS, CHOWDERS^ AND FISH 

Turn all into a bowl and let it stand until it 
becomes cold. Skim the fat off, take out the 
bones, and rub the vegetables through a col- 
ander back into the liquor. 

Season to taste with salt and pepper. When 
it begins to boil, add a cupful of stewed tomato 
and one of baked beans. After cooking half 
an hour rub all hard through the colander 
into another saucepan. Thicken with a tea- 
spoonful of butter rubbed with 1 of flour. 
A little chopped parsley is an improvement. 
Boil hard for a moment and turn upon small 
squares of fried or toasted bread laid in the 
bottom of the tureen. This is a fine way to use 
up left-overs of stewed tomatoes and baked 
beans. 

Red Tomato Soup 

Skim the grease from a quart of beef stock 
and turn into it a can of tomatoes, or a quart 
of fresh tomatoes which have been peeled and 
sliced. Simmer for an hour. Then rub the 
soup through a sieve and return to the fire with 
a large teaspoonful of sugar, a tablespoonf ul of 
butter rolled in flour, a teaspoonful of onion 
juice, a teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet, and 
pepper and salt to taste. Add half a cupful of 
boiled rice. Simmer five minutes, and serve 
with squares of toasted bread. 



SOUPS 77 

Carrot Soup 

Wash and slice in thin slices one dozen half- 
grown carrots. Place in a saucepan with 2 
tablespoonfnls of butter and a little sugar and 
salt. Cook slowly until the carrots begin to 
color. Add a pint of rich broth and boil gently 
to a glaze ; then press the carrots through your 
vegetable press; return to the saucepan, and 
when hot, serve. 

Sorrel Soup 

Chop the sorrel very fine, and boil until ten- 
der in a quart of mutton stock. Bub through 
a colander and return to the fire. Thicken a 
pint of hot milk with a tablespoonful of flour 
rubbed into one of butter. Cook about a min- 
ute, then slowly stir in the sorrel soup. Season 
to taste and serve. 

Okra Soup 

Stir 2 slices of corned ham (minced), a 
chopped onion, and two dozen okra . into a 
quart of chicken stock. Add a pint of strained 
tomatoes and boil all until the okra is tender. 
Season with salt and pepper to taste, and serve. 

Savory Rice Soup 

Wash half a cupful of rice. Place in boiling 
water, and boil for twelve minutes. Drain the 
water off, pour 1 quart of stock over it, and 
cook until the rice becomes tender; then rub 



78 SOUPSt CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

through a strainer and retam to the fire. Beat 
the yolks of 2 eggs; add half a cup of cream 
to them, then add this to the soup, and stir for 
a moment. Do not allow it to boil. If neces- 
sary, add more seasoning, and serve. 

Crowned Potato Soup 

Peel and quarter 12 potatoes^ Fry the po- 
tatoes together with a sliced onion in a soup- 
pot in which 3 tablespoonfuls of beef dripping 
have been placed. When the potatoes have 
browned add 2 quarts of water, and simmer 
until the potatoes have become soft. Bub 
through a colander, return to the pot, and 
thicken with 2 tablespoonfuls of browned flour 
rubbed to a paste with a great spoonful of but- 
ter. Stir until smooth. Season with salt and 
pepper and add a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley. This soup is very good. 

Savory Potato Soup 

Put over the fire a good marrowbone in 3 
pints of cold water. Add a small sliced carrot, 
a stalk or two of celery, and a grated onion. 
Boil slowly down to one-half the original quan- 
tity. 

Set aside until cold ; remove the fat and take 
out the bones, rub the vegetables through a col- 
ander back into the soup. Bring quickly to a 



SOUPS 79 

boil and pour upon your mashed potato grad- 
ually. Turn into a double boiler, and when it 
becomes hot add a great spoonful of chopped 
parsley. 

Have a cupful of hot water, in which a pinch 
of soda has been dropped, in another saucepan. 
Stir into this a teaspoonful of butter, which 
has been rubbed in 1 of com starch. 

Cook three minutes, add to the potato soup; 
Stir briskly for half a minute and put into the 
tureen. 

Split-Pea Soup-No. 1 

This soup may be made of dried, split, green, 
or yellow peas. Let a large cupful of the peas 
soak overnight. In the morning drain, cover 
with 2 quarts of water, and bring to a boil. 
Simmer gently until the peas become soft, then 
rub them through a colander and return to the 
fire. Thicken with a tablespoonful of flour 
rubbed into 1 of butter, and season with salt, 
pepper, celery, and onion juice. 

Stir the soup until it becomes very smooth, 
turn into a heated tureen, throw in a handful 
of dice of fried bread, and serve. 

Bean and Tomato Soup 

Soak a quart of beans eight hours. Drain, 
and soak in warm water for another hour. 
Drain, and put into the soup-pot with a gallon 



aO SOUPS^ CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

of cold water; bring to a boil slowly. Add a 
half pound of chopped fat salt pork with 2 
sliced onions and a bay leaf. Simmer gently 
for four hours. Then press and run the soup 
through a sieve. Return to the pot with a 
quart of canned tomatoes, and sweeten with 2 
teaspoonfuls of granulated sugar. Boil half 
an hour, strain the soup through a colander, 
and place over the fire. Thicken it with a 
tablespoonful of flour rubbed into the same 
quantity of butter. Boil up once, and serve. 

Mock-Turtle Bean Soup 

Make like white-bean soup, adding, at the 
last, a tablespoonful of butter which has been 
rubbed in a tablespoonful of browned flour. 
When the soup has boiled about a minute, add 
a glass of sherry. Peel and slice a lemon as 
thin as possible, place in the tureen with 3 
tablespoonfuls of hard-boiled eggs which have 
been cut into dice. This is a very good imita- 
tion of mock-turtle soup. 

Okra Soup 

Put 2 pounds soup meat in 2 quarts cold 
water; when it comes to a boil, skim, and put 
in ^4 peck okra, 4 good-sized tomatoes, 1 onion, 
2 pieces celery, 2 tablespoonfuls chopped pars- 
ley, and 3 tablespoonfuls rice; the vegetables 



SOUPS 8f 

should be chopped fine; cook all together for 
four hours ; an hour before serving add % pint 
lima beans ; and fifteen minutes before serving, 
3 ears of com cut from cob; last of all, the 
chopped parsley. A good soup may be made 
without the celery, com, and beans. 

Parsnip Soup 

Melt 4 ounces butter in wide saucepan, and 
slice in 2 pounds tender parsnips; cook slowly 
till tender, then cover them well with any well- 
seasoned stock or broth, and boil for twenty 
minutes; press through sieve with wooden 
spoon, add enough stock to make 2 quarts in 
all, season with salt and white or cayenne pep- 
per, let it boil up once. Skim — ^serve— eat ! 

Split-Pea Soup-No. 2 

Pick over and wash 1 cup dried split peas; 
soak several hours in cold water. Put them on 
in 3 pints fresh cold water, and simmer until 
dissolved, adding water as it boils away, to pre- 
serve the original quantity. Keep it scraped 
free from the sides of the kettle ; when soft, rub 
through a strainer and add water, milk, or 
stock to make the desired consistency — ^more a 
puree than a soup. When it boils again, add 
a large tablespoonful each of butter and flour, 
that have been cooked together, with a tea- 



82 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

spoonful salt, and a saltspoonf td white pepper ; 
simmer ten minutes, and serve wich fried bread 
dice. 

If not strained and thickened, it will separate 
as it cools. It is not necessary to boil salt pork 
with this soup, but it may be varied by using 
tomatoes, an onion, or remnants of any meat, 
removing these before straining. The split 
peas have had the hulls removed and cook much 
quicker than whole peas. 

Baked-Bean Soup 

To a pint of baked beans add 1 quart water 
and a slice of onion; boil to a pulp, mash, and 
season. An equal part of sweet com may be 
added ; if dried com is used, soak it overnight, 
chop, and add to beans after straining to re- 
move the indigestible hulls. Do not use the 
water in which it was soaked. 

Bean Soup 

Soak a pint of beans in 3 or 4 quarts of water 
overnight ; pour off in the morning, and put the 
beans on to boil in 2 quarts cold water. 

Fry a sliced onion in a tablespoonful of but- 
ter ; add to the beans, with a piece of celery root. 
Boil gently till the beans are soft, adding cold 
water as it boils away; this checks too rapid 
boiling and softens the beans. Then rub them 



SOUPS 83 

through a strainer, and add salt, cayenne pep- 
per, and a saltspoonf ul of mustard ; let it come 
to a boil, and thicken with a tablespoonful of 
flonr and 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, which have 
been cooked together; this prevents the beans 
from settling. Slice a lemon and 2 hard-boiled 
eggs into the tureen, and pour over the hot 
soup. 

'Serve with croutons. If tomatoes are de- 
sired, add half a can before straining; and a 
quarter pound of salt pork, or bones and odds 
and ends of meat, may be an improvement. 

The beans may be boiled to pulp, sifted, and 
thinned with brown soup stock, and when sea- 
soned with ground herbs, spices, force-meat 
balls, and wine, is not unlike mock-turtle soup. 

American Soup 

Cut into small pieces a pound of mutton (a 
piece from the neck will do) ; put it in a sauce- 
pan with half a pound of split peas that have 
been soaked in cold water. Add 5 pints of 
water, bring to a boil, and add 1 chopped onion, 
half a turnip, half a carrot, and a stalk of 
celery (all chopped) and a teaspoonful of 
sugar. Simmer two or three hours. Cut into 
small pieces 3 or 4 good-sized tomatoes, add 
them to the soup, and boil thirty minutes 
longer. Strain through a fine sieve, season 



84 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

with salt, pepper, a very little nutmeg or mace ; 
boil up, and serve with croutons or triangles of 
crisp toast. 

SOUPS WITHOUT MEAT 

Lentil Soup 

After soaking a pint of lentils in cold water 
for three or four hours, put them in a saucepan 
with 1 carrot, 1 onion, 2 ounces of salt pork 
cut in small pieces, a bunch of savory herbs 
with parsley. Season with a half tablespoon 
of salt and 6 peppercorns. Add the bones of 
any cold fowl or small game. Pour over 2 
quarts of cold water and boil an hour, and rub 
through a sieve and return to the saucepan to 
get thoroughly heated. Cut some nice thin 
slices from the breast of the fowl or game used, 
put these in the soup tureen with a tablespoon- 
ful of butter, and pour the soup over them. 

Serve with croutons or sippets of fried bread. 

Cranberry Soup 

Boil 2 quarts of cranberries in a quart of 
water until the skins crack, then rub through a 
fine sieve, dilute with boiling water, and thicken 
with a little fine tapioca. It may be seasoned 
with a very little salt and sugar to taste, and 
flavored with orange or lemon peel, or stick 
cinnamon and whole cloves boiled with the ber- 



SOUPS 85 

ries. Served hot with little light suet dump- 
lings. 

FrUole Soup 

Frijoles are small red beans, highly esteemed 
by the Mexicans, and mnch used in California 
and the Southwest. The red beans to be found 
in the Eastern markets may be used in their 
place. 

Soak the beans overnight in cold water, then 
salt slightly, and cook all day in the same water 
until the beans are very soft and the liquor 
thick and rich. Bub them through a colander, 
and to each pint of pulp allow a half cup of 
stewed and strained tomato, an onion, and a 
chili pepper minced and browned in olive oil. 
Add enough water to reduce the soup to the 
right consistency, and when piping hot, serve 
with croutons. 

Meagre Soup 

This soup should be of the thickness of ordi- 
nary pea soup. Remove the withered leaves 
from 2 large lettuces, take 5 or 6 handfuls of 
sorrel, a few sprigs of parsley, and a small 
bunch of chervil. Shred all of these very fine. 
Slice and chop some onions, carrots, and leeks ; 
fry until they are lightly browned in butter, 
then put in a saucepan with boiling water. 
Add a bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, and a large 



36 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

lump of buttery and season with salt and pep- 
per. Stir occasionally to prevent any of the 
ingredients from sticking to the bottom. When 
thoroughly cooked press the vegetables through 
a sieve. Add more water to pulp, if necessary, 
and let the soup boil again before serving. 

Lentil Soup 

Pick over and wash a cupful of lentils. After 
soaking them for three hours, put on the stove 
to cook in 1 quart of boiling water. Cook 
slowly until soft and until the water is reduced 
one-half. Bub through a strainer and add a 
pint of milk. 

When it begins to boil, stir in 1 tablespoon- 
f ul of flour cooked in a tablespoonful of butter. 
Season with paprika, salt, and a small amount 
of sugar. Serve with croutons. 

Squash Soup 

One cupful of cold boiled squash run through 
a colander ; beat into this 1 teaspoonf ul each of 
salt and of sugar, a little pepper and a pinch 
of mace, 1 tablespoonful of onion juice, and 2 
of minced celery. Place this on the stove, stir- 
ring constantly until it becomes very hot. 

Have ready a quart of heated milk, with a 
pinch of soda. Stir 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
and 1 of flour into the milk. Mix the hot 



SOUPS 87 

squash and the milk well together in the tureen 
and serve. 
Turnip soup can be made in the same way. 

Rice and Tomato Soup 

Boil to a pulp, in a quart of salted water, a 
dozen ripe tomatoes which have been peeled 
and cut up. Strain, place on the stove again, 
and add 2 tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed into 
the same quantity of flour. Add salt and sugar 
to taste, a teaspoonful of onion juice, and a 
tablespoonful of minced parsley. Cook ten 
minutes, then stir in a cupful of boiled rice. 

Effff Soup 
Heat a quart of milk in a double boiler into 
which has been stirred a minced onion and a 
pinch of soda. Bub a tablespoonful each of but- 
ter and flour to a paste, and stir into the milk. 
Season to taste with pepper and salt. Poach 
6 eggs and lay them in the bottom of the tureen, 
and when the soup is smooth and creamy, pour 
it carefully upon the eggs. 

Saffo Soup without Meat 

Wash a teacupful of sago and then boil for 
an hour in a quart of water, with a pinch of 
salt and a little cinnamon or lemon rind. At 
the end of the hour the water should be reduced 



88 SOUPS^ CHOWDER^ AND FISH 

to one-half. Add a pint of red wine, and some 
slices of lemon, and 5 tablespoonfnls of sugar. 
Let it all come to a boil, and when ready to 
serve, sprinkle the surface with powdered cin- 
namon or nutmeg. 



CHOWDEBS 

A GHOWDEB differs from sonp in being 
thicker, — ^more of the consistency of a stew, — 
though sometimes served as a sonp course, and 
crackers are either added to the chowder while 
cooking or are put in when it is dished, instead 
of being served separately. For fish chowders, 
cod or haddock is best, though bass is also used ; 
it should be a firm-fleshed fish, of a kind from 
which the bones may be easily removed — ^not 
one with many small bones. 

Fish Chowder 

4 pounds fish; 6 medium-sized potatoes; 2 
slices fat salt pork; 1 quart milk; 2 small 
onions; 2 teaspoonfuls salt; 1 saltspoonful 
white pepper; 6 Boston or butter crackers. 

Remove the skin from the. fish; with a boning 
knife cut it clean from the bones, taking out the 
small bones near the head, if the latter has been 
left on. 

Binse the fish in cold water, wipe with a dry 
cloth, cut in two-inch squares, and put it aside 
in a cool place. 

Crack the bones, which are rich in gelatine 

89 



90 SOUP& CHOWDERS^ AND FISH 

(especially those of the head) ; put them to boil 
in sufficient cold water to cover. 

Pare the potatoes and slice them one-fourth 
of an inch thick or less. The potatoes and fish 
should be about equal in quantity. Soak the 
potatoes in cold water for half an hour. Slice 
the onions and cut the pork into small dice and 
fry together in a frying-pan, taking care that 
they do not bum. Strain oflf the fat into the 
kettle ; put in a layer of the sliced potatoes, then 
a layer of the fish ; adding the salt and pepper 
to each. Strain over them the water from the 
boiled bones, and add the rest of the boiling 
water. Let it boil up briskly, and keep it boil- 
ing steadily, but not too rapidly, for twenty 
minutes or until the potatoes are tender, but 
not broken or mushy. When both fish and po- 
tatoes are tender add the milk, which has been 
heated with the butter, and stir carefully to 
allow the milk to mix with the chowder, without 
breaking the fish. Split the crackers and lay 
them on the top of the chowder, where they will 
absorb just enough of the gravy to moisten 
them slightly. Let it boil up, lift the crackers 
carefully to the tureen, and pour the chowder 
over them. 

A tablespoonful of cracker flour may be 
added to the hot milk, or a little flour rubbed 
into the butter, if the broth is liked thicker; a 



CHOVDB^ n 

little Worcestershire sauce or cayenne is added 
if a more highly seasoned dish be liked. The 
broth should be rich and creamy. A little finely 
minced parsley may be sprinkled over the top 
if desired. 

Clam Chowder 

Bhode Island chowder has the potatoes 
omitted, and a quart of cider and pint of port 
are added. 

Some add salt pork and potatoes to this, 
which is a matter of taste, but not orthodox. 
Milk or cream should not be added, for what 
afi&nity is there between milk and clams f It is 
a frequent combination, it is true, but one that 
is almost sure to cause indigestion. Take half 
a peck of hard or soft clams in the shell, which 
should be well scrubbed before they are opened. 
Reserve the clam juice, cut off the hard part of 
the clam, and chop fine (reserving the soft part 
whole); put the chopped part in a porcelain- 
lined kettle with enough water to cover, and 
cook until they begin to grow tender. Mean- 
while peel and slice 2 onions and 6 medium- 
sized potatoes, and steam a pound of sea-bis- 
cuit. When the chopped clams are tender, re- 
move them with a skimmer and put in the po- 
tatoes, onions, a pint of tomatoes, all the clams 
and biscuit in layers ; seasoning each with salt. 



n SOUP$» CHOWDERS^ AND FISH 

pepper, a little powdered sweet marjoram, 
savory, and thyme. Then cover all with cold 
water and cook gently for abont twenty min- 
utes, or until potatoes and onions are tender. 
Before serving season more if liked. 

French Fisherman's Chowder 

Put % of a cup of butter or good clarified 
dripping in a stewpan, and when melted add 3 
ounces of sifted flour and stir until smooth and 
bubbling; then cool and add a quart of stock 
or water, cut the meat carefully from a flounder 
or other fish of firm flesh, and put the bones and 
trimmings in the soup with a bay leaf, 2 cloves, 
a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, or some 
well-seasoned table sauce; a little cayenne, a 
teaspoonful of sugar, and 3 teaspoonfuls of 
salt; unless you use salted soup stock. Let it 
boil rapidly for ten miniltes; skim, if any fat 
arises. Cut the fish into neat pieces and lay 
in a stewpan with a tablespoonful of finely 
chopped parsley and half as much white potato, 
sliced thick, as you have fish. Strain the stock 
over this and add a pint of warm milk, and a 
little cream if you have it on hand. Let it cook 
slowly until the potatoes are just tender, but 
keep their shape. Oyster liquor or clam broth 
may be used instead of the stock or water. In 
that case add the hot milk at the very last, when 



CHOWDERS 93 

m Mill! I «l I I ■ I ■ 111 ■ I ^^M^^M^— — I I I 

the potatoes are done, and boil up once, and 
serve. 

Soft-Clam Chowder 

Chop a quart of soft clams, peel and slice 6 
potatoes thin, tie up in a cheesecloth bag 6 
whole allspice and 6 cloves. Put ^4 of a pound 
of minced salt pork into a pot and fry crisp, 
then remove the pork and fry a small sliced 
onion in the pot to a light brown. Add the 
potatoes and a can of tomatoes, the spice bag, 
a pinch of cayenne pepper, and a quart of cold 
water. Cook four hours. After cooking three 
and a half hours add the clams and 4 pilot bis- 
cuits that have previously been soaked in milk. 
Serve very hot. 

Scallops can be used instead of clams, and 
treated in the same way they make a delicious 
chowder. More cayenne should be used than 
in the clam chowder. 

Terrapin Soup 

1 quart chicken or white stock; 1 pint ter- 
rapin meat; 1 cup cream; 2 hard-boiled egg- 
yolks ; 2 tablespoonf uls butter ; 1 tablespoonf ul 
rice flour; ^ teaspQpnful salt; V^ saltspoonful 
paprika ; a blade of mace ; % glass madeira or 
sherry. 

Simmer the terrapin meat for half an hour 
in the stock, adding the salt, mace, and paprika. 



94 SOUPS» CHOWDERS» AND FISH 

Mash the egg-yolks smooth, and add with the 
hot cream. Bub together the rice flour and 
butter until smooth, mix with a little of the hot 
liquor, then stir it into the soup; let it boil a 
few minutes and add the wine. 

Serve with dry plain boiled rice or rice- or 
egg-balls. 

Turtle Soup 

Make the red-legged turtle soup the same as 
terrapin. For green-turtle soup take: 

3 pints clear white stock ; 1 can green turtle ; 
1 onion; 2 tablespoonfuls butter; 1 tablespoon- 
ful flour; y2 teaspoonful salt; ^ teaspoonful 
paprika ; 1 lemon ; ^ glassful sherry ; 6 cloves ; 
6 peppercorns ; 1 bay leaf ; 1 blade mace ; 1 tea- 
spoonful mixed sweet herbs. 

If very fat, use only a small portion of it; 
cut this in dice and add at the last. Simmer 
the turtle meat for an hour in the stock, with 
the sweet herbs and spices tied loosely in a 
piece of cheesecloth. Slice the onion and cook 
it in the butter, but do not let it brown much; 
add the flour to the onion and butter, and stir 
until smooth. 

Add this to the hot soup with the salt and 
paprika ; let it simmer until thoroughly blended, 
then add the sherry and the fat meat. Serve 
with a very thin slice of lemon in each plate. 



CHOWDERS 95 

Egg balls or hard-boiled egg-yolks cat in quar- 
ters may be served with the soup. 

Mock Terrapin 

Boil until tender 2 pounds of lean beef; let 
it cool in the liquor. Chop the meat rather 
fine ; put into a saucepan with a cupful of milk 
and 1 of wine. Eub 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
with 1 of flour, add 2 tablespoonfuls of made 
mustard, a teaspoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce, and a little grated nutmeg. Put it over 
the fire and boil fifteen or twenty minutes ; add 
more salt if needed, and serve. 

Fish Soup 

Boil salmon, halibut, or cod in salted water 
until it flakes easily. Drain, remove skin and 
bones, and rub through strainer. To 1 pound of 
fish use 1 quart milk, boiled with an onion, for 
ten minutes; take out the onion, thicken milk 
with 1 tablespoonful butter and 2 tablespoon- 
fuls flour cooked together. Add 1 teaspoonful 
salt and 1 saltspoonful pepper, and the fish. 
Let all come to a boil together, then serve. 

Red-Snapper Soup 

Bring a quart of white stock to a boil. Mince 
finely 2 cupfuls of cold cooked fish, which has 
been freed of skin and bones, and stir into the 
stock. Add salt, pepper, a tablespoonful of 



%^ SOUPSr CHOWPmS, AND FISH 

chopped parsley, and a great spoonful of but- 
ter. Heat a cupful of milk to boiling, then 
thicken with a white roux and half a cupful of 
fine cracker crumbs. When the fish and stock 
have cooked for five minutes, stir into the 
thickened milk, and serve. 

Eel Soup 

Clean and cut 2 pounds of eels into inch- 
lengths. Put some dripping in a saucepan and, 
when hissing hot, fry a sliced onion in it. After 
rubbing the pieces of eels dry, place in the 
saucepan and fry on both sides to a light brown. 
Turn all in a covered saucepan, pour in 3 pints 
of water, and cook slowly for an hour. Season 
with a pinch of mace and a larger pinch of 
cayenne, and 1 tablespoonf ul of minced parsley. 
Salt to taste. Stir in 2 tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter cooked to a roux with 1 of flour. Simmer 
three minutes, add the juice of a lemon, and 
serve. 

Crab Soup 

Cut in small pieces 4 good-sized tomatoes 
that have been washed and wiped (or use half 
a can of tomatoes). Mash and rub them 
through a strainer fine enough to take out all 
the seeds. Pour boiling water over the seeds 
and skim to extract all the juice, and strain this 
off also. Put this strained tomato in a sauce- 



CHOWDERS 97 

pan with a clove of garlic, 1 onion, a small red 
pepper, and a tablespoonfnl of batter, and stew 
half an hour. Add a cupful of crab meat with- 
out the fat ; pour over it boiling water enough 
to make 3 pints in. all. Season with minced 
parsley, sweet marjoram, a spoonful of lemon 
juice, more salt if necessary, and, lastly, the fat 
of the crab. Simmer slowly for an hour, 
thicken slightly with bread crumbs, and serve. 

Shrimp Gumbo 

Chop fine 1 red sweet chili and an onion, and 
cook slowly for half an hour in 4 tablespoonfuls 
olive oil. 

Add 1 pint okra (washed and sliced), 1 pint 
shrimps, and 1 pint water; cover and cook 
slowly half hour. Wash and flake % pound 
salt cod, cover with cold water, and bring to a 
boil ; drain, and repeat ; when it comes to boil- 
ing the second time, squeeze dry, chop and 
sprinkle over the shrimps, with 1 level tea* 
spoonful salt. 

Moisten 1 tablespoonfnl flour in a little cold 
water, stir it in carefully, boil a moment, add 
a tablespoonfnl butter, and serve. 

Potato Chowder 

5 medium-sized potatoes; 3 thin slices of 
bacon, 1 pint milk, 1 medium-sized onion; 2 
teaspoonfuls Worcestershire sauce; 1 tables 



98 SOUPS, CaaWDEBS, AND FISH 

spoonful flour; 1 tablespoonful butter; 1 tea- 
spoonful salt; 14 saltspoonful pepper; a dash 
of cayenne. 

Pare the potatoes, slice them one-third of an 
inch ; then cut in squares one inch or so across, 
throw them in cold water. Slice the onion, cut 
the bacon in dice, and fry together to a delicate 
brown. Drain the fat into a deep saucepan, 
put in the potatoes, distributing the crisped 
bacon with the salt and pepper through them. 
Nearly cover with boiling water and cook with- 
out stirring until the potatoes are tender, which 
will take fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Bub the flour and butter together, add the 
hot milk, blend well; stir it carefully into the 
chowder, taking care to break the potatoes as 
little as possible. Let it boil until the flour is 
cooked, add the Worcestershire sauce with hot 
toasted crackers. 

Corn Chowder 

1 dozen well-filled ears sweet com; 1 pint 
sliced and peeled tomatoes ; 1 onion ; 3 medium- 
sized potatoes ; 1 slice fat salt pork ; 1 pint milk ; 
1 teaspoonful salt; 1 saltspoonful pepper; 1 
tablespoonful flour; 1 heaping tablespoonful 
butter. 

Pare and slice the potatoes and put them to 
soak in plenty of cold water. Cut the com 



CHOwLUUCS 99 

from the cob, and put the latter in water 
enough to well cover, and boil fifteen or twenty 
minutes. Cut the pork in dice, slice the onion, 
and fry them together. Drain the water from 
the boiled cobs, add to it the fat, strained from 
the pork and onion; put in the potatoes, com, 
tomatoes, and seasoning, and cook nntil the 
I)otatoes are tender. Bub the flour and butter 
to a cream with a little of the cold milk; have 
the rest of the milk hot, stir this and the flour 
and butter in carefully; let it cook until it 
thickens, and serve very hot with thin toasted 
crackers. 

Game Soup 

Use 2 grouse or partridges, or, if neither can 
be had, use a pair of rabbits; half a pound of 
lean ham; 2 medium-sized onions; 1 pound of 
lean beef; 2 stalks of celery cut into inch- 
lengths, 3 quarts of water ; fried bread ; pepper 
and salt to taste. Joint the game neatly; cut 
the ham and onions into small pieces and fry 
all to a light brown. Put into the soup-pot 
with the beef, which has been cut into strings, 
and a little pepper. Pour the water on; heat 
slowly, and stew gently for two hours. Take 
out the pieces of bird, and cover in a bowl; 
cook with soup an hour longer, strain through 
a sieve, and when cool drop in the 2 stalks of 



100 SOUPS, CHOVDERS, AND FISH 

celery. , Simmer for ten minutes, pour upon 
fried bread in the tureen. 



A GROUP OF FOREIGN SOUPS, ETC. 

Portuffuese Soup 

Soak 8 selected prunes in cold water over- 
night ; in the morning drain the prunes and add 
to the water in which they were soaked enough 
stock to make a quart, and 3 leeks cut in two- 
inch pieces ; simmer till tender, then put in the 
prunes and season with salt and pepper. Serve 
hot with strips of toast. For four persons. 

Court-bouillon 

Fry 3 sliced onions in 2 tablespoonf uls butter 
in bottom of stewpan, without burning; add 1 
tablespoonful flour, mix well ; add slowly 1 pint 
beef stock ; when smooth, put in 1 pound sliced 
fish, 2 peeled and sliced tomatoes, and 1 cup 
claret or % cup vinegar ; then another layer of 
fish and tomatoes. Simmer half an hour. Let 
the fish be skinned and boned. 

Bouillabaisse 

'' Bring me a bowl of bouiUabaisse."— Thackeray. 

Put a gill of sweet oil into a kettle, with 2 
medium-sized onions and 2 cloves of garlic, 
chopped fine; shake over the fire till golden 
brown. 



CHOWDERS 101 

Add 1^ pounds each of halibut and haddock, 
washed and sliced, and a bay leaf, 2 cloves, 2 
thin slices of lemon; a tomato, peeled, and the 
seeds pressed out; a teaspoonful salt, and a 
saltspoonful pepper. Cover, and cook slowly 
twenty minutes; add a quart of boiling water 
and bring to a boil and skim. 

Put in a dozen clams or oysters, a tablespoon- 
ful chopped parsley. Have a lobster (or a 
half-dozen crawfish) ready boiled and hot; dish 
the fish on a platter, with the oysters around 
the edge, and the lobster on top, sprinkled with 
chopped parsley. 

Add a teaspoonful of * * kitchen bouquet ' * to 
the soup in kettle, and pour over 6 large crou- 
tons in a deep dish. Serve a crouton, a piece 
of fish, one of lobster, some oysters, then a 
ladle of soup. 

This takes the place of both soup and fish in 
the order of dishes. 

Pot au Feu 

For ten persons take 4 pounds of beef, — ^let 
it be the rump or round of beef, — a marrow- 
bone, and with 3 quarts of cold water, and a 
teaspoonful of salt, heat slowly and carefully, 
removing scum as it rises. Keep adding a 
tablespoonful of cold water to assist its doing 
80, and skim most particularly until the soup 



IQ2 SOUPS» CHOVDERSr AND FISH 

is clear. When it is thoroughly sMmmed, cover 
tightly to keep out the dust, and let simmer 
gently for two hours. Add an onion stuck with 
3 cloves, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, 
5 or 6 outer sticks of celery, a leek, 2 carrots, a 
bay leaf, a turnip, and a teaspoonful of whole 
pepper. The vegetables should be added grad- 
ually, that the temperature of the soup may not 
be lowered. Let the vegetables simmer gently 
and continuously for two hours longer, or until 
they are tender. Add a little more pepper and 
salt, if required, and serve the bouillon in a 
tureen, and, as a remove, the bouilli (meat) 
and vegetables. Time for cooking, five hours 
from the time it begins to boil. 

Beer Soup (German Method) 

Simmer 2 quarts of mild beer (it should not 
be bitter) with the thin rind of a lemon, a few 
cloves, and a stick of cinnamon; sweeten with 
sugar, and add it, through a sieve, to the well- 
beaten yolks of 6 eggs and half a pint of cream. 
Whilst pouring into the tureen, stir into a froth 
with a wire whisk. 

The beer should be very hot, but not boiling, 
when stirred into the eggs. Serve hot with 
toast. Time, about half an hour to sunmer. 
There will be sufficient of this for eight or ten 
persons. 



CHOWDERS X03 

Fruit Soups 

On a blistering hot day fruit soups served 
very cold are sometimes more acceptable than 
one that must be served very hot to be pala- 
table. For this purpose cherries, apricots, 
peaches, plums, and other meaty fruits are best. 
They may be used separately for a soup that 
takes its name from the fruit used, or may be 
combined and caUed simply fruit soup or given 
a more fanciful name from some flavoring used. 

These soups are only slightly sweetened, as 
the tartness is an agreeable preface to a hot- 
day dinner. 

1 pint crushed fruit; 1 pint water; 14 pint 
red wine or i/^ glassful currant or raspberry 
jelly; a stick of cinnamon; a blade of mace; 
juice and a little grated rind of lemon ; 2 table- 
spoonfuls sugar; 2 tablespoonfuls arrowroot. 

Stew the fruit in the water until soft, crack 
a few of the stones, and add the kernels while 
cooking. Strain through a coarse strainer, 
using a silver spoon to press the pulp through 
the strainer. Put back into the saucepan ; add 
the lemon juice, sugar, and arrowroot, which 
has been mixed with cold water, stirring con- 
stantly until it thickens. Let it cook until the 
arrowroot is clear. Add the jelly and stir until 
dissolved. Take from the fire and cool, then 
add the wine, and put on the ice until thor- 



104 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

-onghly chilled. Serve in bomllon cups, with 
bits of cracked ice and a few whole cherries or 
firm red raspberries to each cup. 

Small triangles of buttered toast, or toasted 
wafers, may be served as an adjunct. 

Should the water boil down while the fruit 
is cooking, add more. It should be the con- 
sistency of a thick fruit syrup when strained. 

Cider Soup 

Put a pint of cider, just beginning to work, 

into a kettle; add a pint of water, and bring 

to a boil. Add a tablespoonful of flour stirred 

smooth in a little cold water, and cook a few 

moments before adding a cup of boiling milk, 

sugar to taste, and cinnamon to flavor. Serve 

with toast. 

Apple Soup 

Put 4 cups of peeled and quartered apples 
over to cook, with water to keep them from 
scorching. When mushy rub through a sieve, 
add a pint and a half of water, 3 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, a pinch of salt, and a little cinnamon. 
Thicken very slightly with com starch. Dried 
plums, prunes, or cherries may be soaked over- 
night, then cooked in the same way. 

Chocolate Soup 

Sweet soups are essentially German, but they 
are nearly always welcome in families where 



CHOWDERS 105 

there are children or the aged. Chocolate soup, 
is especially nourishing. Put a quarter of a 
pound of grated chocolate into a saucepan 
with 3 pints of milk^ which should be boiling 
when the chocolate goes in. Sweeten to taste, 
and cook fifteen minutes. Before serving stir 
in the yolks of 4 eggs well beaten up in a little 
milk, and a pinch of salt. Pour this over fried 
dice of bread or rolls, and serve ; or serve with 
waferettes, butterines, or saltines. Just before 
serving, the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs 
may be cooked in spoonfuls on the top. 

German Farina Blocks 

Beat an egg till fairly light; stir in 4 table- 
spoonfuls farina slowly, that it may not lump, 
till about the consistency of molasses; add ^ 
teaspoonful salt. Heat 2 tablespoonfuls olive 
oil, pour in the farina mixture, and brown 
slowly, for at least ten minutes. Turn, like a 
pancake, and brown on other side ; lift carefully 
and drain on clean brown paper; cut into 
%-inch cubes, put into soup tureen, and pour 
over the hot seasoned stock. 

Force-meat Balls 

Take chicken, veal, beef, or any left-over 
meat, chop fine enough to make 40 tablespoon- 
fuls, which will be sufficient for six people. Mix 



106 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 



with an equal quantity of bread crumbs, season 
with salt, pepper, a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, and a few drops of onion juice. Mix 
in thoroughly the yolk of an eggy make into tiny 
balls, and drop into a small quantity of the 
boiling stock. 

Do not let them boil rapidly, or they will 
break apart. Cook five minutes, drain, put into 
soup tureen ; pour in the hot stock. 

Matzoth Soup Balls 

Jewish Recipe 

Soak 3 matzoth in cold water, squeeze dry, 
and add 1 pint meal. Put 1 tablespoonful 
rendered suet in a frying-pan with 6 sliced 
onions, and cook till brown; then add the 
matzoth, 6 well-beaten eggs, i/^ teaspoonful 
salt, and 1 saltspoonful each of mace, ginger, 
and pepper. Shape into balls, drop into hot 
oil, and cook slowly, so they will not break to 
pieces, for half an hour. 

Liver KIdsse (for Soup) 

Take % calf's liver and mince it small; mix 
with 4 ounces of finely shredded suet, 2 table* 
spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a little pepper 
and salt, the well-beaten yolks of 4 eggs and the 
whites of 2 eggs, and as much crumb of bread, 
soaked in milk and pressed dry, as will bind 



CHOWDERS 107 

it together. Form into egg-shaped balls, cook 
these in salted boiling water half an hour, and 
serve in soup. Half a teaspoonful of any herb 
powder that is liked may be added with the 
parsley. Sufficient for six or seven persons. 

Caramel— or Burnt Suffar 

For Sauces and Soups 

Put a quarter of a pound of finely sifted 
sugar into a porcelain-lined saucepan, and place 
over a moderate fire. Stir continuously with a 
wooden spoon until it is of a dark brown color ; 
then add 1 pint of cold water. Draw it to one 
side and let simmer for a quarter of an hour. 
Strain, and bottle for use. If the fire is too 
hot, the caramel will be discolored. A few 
drops added to sauces or soups will give the 
desired color. 

Croutons 

Cut bread (stale) into %-inch slices, remove 
the crust, and cut into %-inch strips and then 
into i^-inch cubes. Fry in hot clarified fat untU 
lightly browned, then drain ; or place in baking- 
pan in very hot oven, and serve. 



FISH 

To be either wholesome or palatable, fish 
must be thoroughly cooked. If boiled suffi- 
ciently the flesh is apt to break in pieces, and 
since boiling extracts the juice, unless it is one 
of the finer flavored fish, it is improved by some 
other method of cooking than boiling. The 
more common varieties can be boiled to advan- 
tage ; salmon is a perfect fish for boiling, keep- 
ing its delicious flavor unimpaired. Mackerel 
is one of the best fish for boiling, and a thick 
cut of halibut is delicious boiled and served 
with a HoUandaise or egg sauce. 

Cod, bluefish, and haddock may be either 
boiled or steamed by handling carefully to pre- 
vent their breaking, and made very tempting 
by the garnishing of lemon that is required and 
by serving with them a highly seasoned sauce. 

If there is no fish-kettle, a drainer on which 
to boil the fish may be improvised by using a 
perforated pie-plate. Fasten a strong twine 
or piece of picture wire through the holes in 
opposite sides of the plate in such a way that 
it will serve as handles to lift by without tip- 
ping from side to side. On this lay the fish, 

106 



FISH 109 

and let it down in the kettle. Or an ordinary 
plate may be used, tying it in a square of 
muslin. By this means the fish can be lifted 
out of the water without breaking. 

If the fish is of a very tender variety, binding 
it with strips of cheesecloth or thin muslin will 
prevent its breaking and keep it in shape. 

Boiling should be done gently, as rapid boil- 
ing will cause the outside to fall apart before 
it is thoroughly cooked inside. 

Lemon should always enter into the cooking 
or serving of fish ; nothing else will as effectu- 
ally cut the oil, though a piquant sauce made 
with the best of vinegar will, by its high season- 
ing, be a sufficient dressing for the drier or less 
oily kinds. 

From six to ten minutes for each pound, ac- 
cording to the thickness of the fish or cut, is re- 
quired for boiliQg. It is done when the flesh 
is tender and falls easily from the bone. 

Coquilles of Fish 

Take a pint of cold boiled fish, free it of skin 
and bones, and break it into small pieces. Put 
it into a saucepan with half a pint of boiling 
water, a tablespoonful of thick cream, a table- 
spoonful of butter rolled in flour, a teaspoonful 
of anchovy sauce, and salt and pepper to taste. 
Stir all together over the fire until it becomes 



n 



m SOUPS, CHOVDERS^ AND FISH 

thoroughly heated, then fill buttered shells with 
the mixture and cover with fried crumbs. Set 
in the oven xmtil they become heated. Serve 
on a napkin. 

Fish Cakes 

Boil together the heads, tails, fins, and bones 
of any fish in enough water to cover thenu 
Season with onion juice, herbs, a little mace, 
and salt and pepper. Mince the fish, and mix 
together 2 parts of fish to 1 of bread crumbs. 
Moisten with melted butter and the white of 
an egg, and fry nearly ten minutes in butter. 

Strain the gravy and put it into a stewpan 
with the fish. Cover the kettle closely, and 
stew gently for fifteen minutes. 

Fish h la Cr^me 

1 pound of fish; 1 pint of milk; yolks of 2 
eggs; 1 tablespoonful of butter; 1 tablespoon- 
f ul of flour ; 1 teaspoonf ul of salt ; 1 teaspoonf ul 
(scant) of pepper. 

Let the fish soak overnight or for several 
hours. Next day boil the fish and then pick 
apart into large flakes. Hub the butter and 
flour together, add the milk, and let it come to 
a boil. Remove from the fire, add the yolks of 
the eggs, the fish, and the seasoning. When 
thoroughly heated, turn into a buttered baking- 



FISH in 

dish, Bprinkle bread crnmbs over the top, and 
place in a hot oven to brown. 

Be careful not to bake it too long, as the egg 
will separate. 

'Scalloped Fish 

Use the remnants of cold boiled or baked 
fish; if baked, use the stufSng and any of the 
sauce for moistening. Bemove all bones and 
skin, and flake the fish. 

Into a well-buttered baking-dish put a layer 
of fish, a layer of stuffing, then one of well- 
buttered bread crumbs, moistening with cream 
sauce, or sweet cream, well seasoned with salt 
and cayenne. Fill the dish with layers of fish 
and crumbs, covering with crumbs well but- 
tered. Bake until nicely browned. 

Fish with Mashed Potato 

Take any cold fish, either boiled, baked, or 
fried. Free from all skin and bones, flake into 
medium-sized pieces. Butter a baking-dish; 
line the bottom and sides with smoothly mashed 
potato, that is well seasoned and beaten light 
with one lightly beaten egg. Leave the potato 
quite thick around the edges of the pan, and 
do not smooth it on top, but leave as rough as 
possible 

Add to the flaked fish one-half as much bread 
crumbs and moisten with white sauce or any 



112 SOUPSr CHOWDERS^ AND FISH 

fish sauce that may be left over; season with 
salt and pepper and a teaspoonfnl of Worces- 
tershire or chili sauce ; fill the space left in the 
middle of the potato, dot the top of the potato 
with bits of butter, and bake in a hot oven for 
fifteen minutes, or until the potato is nicely 
browned. Serve in the same dish. 

Bemnants of cold meat may be treated in the 
same way. The fish or meat should have 
enough sauce or gravy to make it quite moist, 
and should be quite highly seasoned. 

Fish Cutlets 

Cut cod, haddock, or any good-sized, firtn fish 
into slices the size and shape for cutlets, 
sprinkle each with salt and pepper, roll in fine 
cracker crumbs ; then dip in beaten egg to which 
a spoonful of milk has been added, then in the 
crumbs again. Fry, until well done and a nice 
brown, in butter or good beef drippings. Put 
the cutlets on a hot platter, and pour around 
them a hot tomato sauce. 

Fish Croquettes 

Take the remnants of cold boiled or baked 
fish. Remove every bone and break into fine 
bits. To 1 cup of fish allow y2 cup of rich 
white sauce. Heat the sauce, remove from 
the fire, and add 1 beaten egg. Add the fish, 
and with a fork mix and beat thoroughly. 



FISH 113 

Season with salt and pepper and Worcester- 
shire sauce, adding, if liked, two or three drops 
of onion juice. Add V^-cup of bread crumbs 
that have been slightly browned in butter. Mix 
thoroughly ; if too stiff, add a little more sauce 
or sweet cream. When cool form into balls, 
dip in egg and crumbs, and fry in deep, hot fat 
until they are a nice brown. 

Boil the bones, head, and tail of the fish with 
a small onion in sufficient water to make a 
sauce. Strain off the liquor and season with 
anchovy and tomato. Serve very hot with the 
sauce poured around the croquettes. 

Fish PAt6 

Free a pint of any cold cooked fish of skin 
and bone, and shred fine. Put into a saucepan 
and add 1 quart of milk, 2 well-beaten eggs, y^ 
of a cupful of flour mixed well with a little of 
the nulk. Season with a little salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg. Stir until it is as thick as cream. 
Put alternate layers of sauce, fish, and bread 
crumbs into a buttered baking-dish, and set in 
the oven until it becomes a golden brown. It 
will take only a short time to cook. 

Casserole of Fish 

Any kind of cold cooked fish may be used. 
Flake the fish, season with salt and pepper and 
a little Worcestershire sauce, and moisten with 



m SOUPSr CHOVDERS, AND FISH 

cream sauce or thick cream. To each cup of 
flaked fish allow 1 hard-boiled egg and 1 cup 
of well-seasoned mashed potatoes. Butter a 
mould of the right size, line it with the potato, 
and fill the case with alternate layers of fish, 
slices of egg, and mashed potato. Steam 
twenty minutes, or bake in a moderately hot 
oven fifteen minutes. Turn out on a hot plat* 
ter, and garnish with cress or parsley. 

Fish en Matelote 

Take any good, firm fish, clean it well, and 
cut it into strips two or three inches long. 
Sprinkle with salt, and set aside. Peel and 
slice 2 onions, put them in a saucepan, and boil 
until tender ; drain. Season with salt and pep- 
per, pour in a teacupful of hot water and half 
a teacupful of sherry; add the fish, and set 
over the fire to simmer. When ready to serve, 
drop a tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour 
into the saucepan, and let it all come to a boiL 

Rissoles of Fish 

To any quantity or kind of cold cooked fish, 
weighed after the bones and skin have been re- 
moved, add a third part of grated bread 
crumbs, a finely minced boiled onion, some cold 
melted butter, and the yolks of 2 eggs ; season 
with pepper and salt. Make puff paste, roll it 
thin, and cut it into squares of two inches. 



ACOLONIALTHANKSGIVIN&DINNER 



INDUUD ■TnE-DAr-mET-HOUSD-THEIR'ANNUAL- GRAIN 



Thftnks^Ting; DinDer (Continued) 



FISH 1)5 



Place about a teaspoonful of the mince on each 
square, and fold over with paste. Wet the 
edges of the paste, before closing them, that 
they may adhere, and fry in boiling fat, first 
egging and covering the rissoles with bread 
cmmbs. Serve dry. Garnish with fried pars- 
ley. Fry till lightly browned. 

Fish A la Paris 

Cut any good, firm fish into small pieces, 
dredge with salt, pepper, and flour, and fry 
until brown in butter. Turn into a pot contain- 
ing a pint of boiling water and half a teacupful 
of vinegar. Add a finely chopped onion, 2 
tablespoonfuls of olive oil, and a teaspoonful 
each of ground mace, cloves, and allspice. 
Cover closely, and simmer for an hour. Serve 
very hot, and garnish with sweet fennel. 

Broiled Bluefish 

Split the fish down the back and soak for half 
an hour in strong salted water. Dry thor- 
oughly with a towel, rub the broiler with salt 
fat pork or butter before putting the fish in. 
Broil xmder a gas flame or over clear hot coals. 
A medium-sized fish will require about twenty 
minutes to broil. Broil the flesh-side first, and 
turn frequently. Serve on a hot platter gar- 
nished with cress and lemon, and pour over the 
fish a little melted butter. 



n6 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 



Bluefish may also be pan-broiled, by laying 
it flesh-side down on a well-greased, very hot 
griddle. When well browned, turn carefully 
with a pancake turner so as not to break the 
fish. Serve with Lyonnaise or French fried 
potatoes. 

Baked Bluefish 

Clean and scrape the fish, split down the 
back, and remove the backbone, which can be 
done with a boning knife. Score the skin with- 
out cutting into the flesh, making five or six 
incisions. Bun the sharp point of the knife 
under the skin sufficiently to insert a thin slice 
of sweet salt pork. 

Make a stuffing of 1 cup bread crumbs, 2 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter or finely 
chopped salt pork, a teaspoonful of chopped 
onion, the same of chopped parsley, a saltspoon- 
ful of salt, a dash of cayenne and a half tea- 
spoonful of kitchen bouquet, and a spoonful of 
tomato catsup. Mix well and, if too dry, add a 
tablespoQuful of hot water. Fill the fish and 
sew up the opening. If a richer and more 
moist dressing is desired, add a well-beaten egg 
without any water. 

Lay 2 or 3 slices of pork under the fish to 
prevent its sticking to the pan, and baste sev- 
eral times with the fat while baking. When 
cooked and well-browned lift, without break- 



FISH n7 



ing, to the hot platter, and garnish with sliced 
lemon and watercress. 

Baked Fresh Codfish with Cheese Sauce 

Lay a square or oblong of fish in salt water 
for half an hour; wipe dry, and rub well with 
lemon juice and butter. 

Put a cupful of strained veal stock, or weak 
gravy, in the bottom of the baking-pan under 
the grating. Do not let it touch the fish. Lay 
the fish on the grating, salt and pepper it, cover, 
and bake, allowing ten minutes to a pound. 
Take from the oven; sift dry fine crumbs over 
it, and place small pieces of butter on these. 
Return to the oven, uncovered, and let it brown 
while you strain the gravy from the pan. 
Thicken the gravy with butter rolled in flour, 
season with the juice of a lemon, a little onion 
juice, and 4 tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan 
cheese. Boil one minute, pour a little over the 
fish, and the rest into the gravy-boat. 

Baked Chowder 

Cut 2 pounds of cod, or any other firm fish, 
into inch-squares. Fry a small sliced onion in 
a large tablespoonful of butter, strain, and 
return butter to frying-pan. Put the small 
squares of fish into the pan and toss and turn 
them until they become well coated. Pack the 



m SOOTS, CHOVDKR& AND FgR 

fish in a battered bake-dish alternately with 
slices of parboiled potatoes, half a pound of 
finely minced salt pork, small pieces of batter 
which have been rolled in floar, minced parsley, 
and 2 chopped tomatoes. Poar over this a 
large capfal of oyster liqaor which has been 
seasoned with salt and paprika. Cover with 
split Boston crackers that have soaked half an 
hoar in milk. Cover the dish and bake for an 
hoar. Then remove the cover and brown. 

Baked Creamed Codfish 

Clean the tail of a cod, boil it in salted water, 
adding a sprig of parsley. When it is cooked, 
drain and wipe it; then open down the back, 
take oat the bones, and separate the meat into 
pieces. Place them in layers in a dish, and 
between the layers a little bechamel saace 
thinned with cream, a small piece of batter, and 
a saspicion of natmeg. Sprinkle the top with 
a few bread crambs, and set in the oven to 
brown. 

Cod ik la Bechamel 

Remove the fish from the bones and break 
into small pieces. Pat a capfal of nicely sea- 
soned white stock and a capfal of fresh milk 
into a saacepan. Thicken with a little batter 
rabbed into a little floar, add the fish, and let 
it remain antil it becomes thoroaghly heated, 



FISH H9 

but do not allow the sauce to boil. Turn the 
fish and sauce out on a hot platter, and serve 
with a border of mashed potato. It takes about 
twenty minutes to prepare this dish. 

Biscayan Cod 

Remove the bones from 2 pounds of cod, and 
soak in cold water overnight. Put over the 
fire in fresh water, and heat slowly to boiling, 
then add fresh water and boil again; take out 
and scale. Heat a gill of oil, and fry in it 2 
chopped onions and a green pepper for a few 
minutes, and put in a bruised clove of garlic, 
a sliced tomato, and a chili pepper ; add 3 pints 
of broth, and season with 3 tablespoonfuls of 
tomato sauce and a bunch of parsley ; then add 
a pint of peeled potatoes, and cook forty min- 
utes ; then put in the cod, boil for five minutes, 
and serve. 

Salted Cod with Brown Butter 

Soak the fish in cold water overnight ; if not 
sufficiently freshened, put in boiling water a 
few minutes; long-continued soaking deprives 
the fish of its flavor as well as saltness. 

Scrape off the scales, wash carefully, put 
over the fire, and let it slowly come to a boil. 
Move the kettle to back of stove, skim, and boil 
gently for ten minutes. 

Heat a little butter, and in it brown a few 



120 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

sprigs of parsley; pour this over the fish* and 
serve at once. 

Baked Cod*s Head 

Head and portion of the shoulders of cod; 
1 teaspoonfnl of onion jnice ; ^^ ponnd of veal 
or chicken; 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley; 
1 teaspoonfnl of salt ; 1 saltspoonf nl of pepper. 

Trim and wash the fish. Chop the veal, add- 
ing the onion jnice, parsley, salt, and pepper. 
Fill the fish with this mixture, place in the 
baking-pan with half a cnpfnl of water. Bake 
three-quarters of an hour, basting frequently. 
When the head is nearly done, baste with melted 
butter, and sprinkle browned bread crumbs 
over it. Serve with brown sauce. 

Broiled Salt Cod 

Select a moderately thick, fleshy piece of cod 
that has been boned. Put it on the broiler and 
broil over hot coals or under a gas flame, let- 
ting it brown, but taking care that it does not 
bum. Lay it in a shallow dish and pour boil- 
ing water over and let it stand five or ten min- 
utes, if very salt or if it is liked very much fresh- 
ened. Pour off this water and put more boiling 
water on and let it stand another five minutes ; 
take it out on a hot platter, cover generously 
with butter, dust with pepper, and serve with 
potato cakes and brown bread or com muflSns 



FISH m 

or buttered brown-bread toast. Smoked fish, 
Babnon, or halibut may be cooked in the same 
way. 

Creamed Salt Codflsh 

Cut a sufficient amount of fish into small 
pieces, cover it with cold water and let it come 
to a boily and simmer until tender. Drain, and 
pick it into small bits, but do not mince it too 
fine. Make a cream sauce by rubbing together 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter and 1 of flour and 
add to it 1 pint of milk. Boil until it 
thickens, and if not perfectly smooth, strain it. 
Put in the fish, add pepper, and let it heat thor- 
oughly. 

Or omit the flour, and after the fish is thor- 
oughly heated in the milk and butter, stir in a 
well-beaten egg and remove from the fire. 
Stir briskly until the sauce is thick and creamy. 
Add a dash of paprika. 

Baked potatoes, and Graham or entire wheat 
gems or muffins, are good accompaniments, or 
it may be served on crisp squares of toast. 

Beauresard Cod 

Boil a pound of cod and set it aside to get 
cold. Flake with a silver fork into small pieces. 
Heat a pint of fresh milk in a double boiler, 
thicken it with a teaspoonful of flour rubbed 
into 1 of butter. Stir in the fish, season to 



122 SOUP$, CHO^TDERS, AND PISH 

taste, and cook five minutes. Turn out in a 
dish containing squares of buttered toast. 
Have 4 hard-boiled eggs ready, with the yolks 
powdered and the whites cut into rings. 
Sprinkle the powdered yolks over the fish and 
lay the rings around the edge of the platter. 

Boiled Fresh Codfish 

Lay a square, ^ ^ chunky ' ' piece of fish in salt 
and water for an hour. Sew it up in a well- 
fitted white mosquito netting, put in a kettle 
with enough boiling water to cover it well, add 
4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and cook steadily, 
allowing ten minutes to the pound. Unwrap 
the fish and pour over it egg sauce. 

Salt Codfish Balls 

Put the codfish in cold water and let it come 
to a boil; then pour off the water, cover with 
fresh boiling water, and simmer slowly until 
tender. Eemove the bones and mince the fish 
fine. Boil potatoes and mash while hot, beat- 
ing them imtil light and smooth, as if to be 
served alone. Add butter, pepper, and a little 
milk or cream. 

Use 1 cup of minced fish to 2 cups of mashed 
potatoes ; mix well and add enough well-beaten 
egg to bind, and have the mixture just moist 
enough to make into balls. Form into round 



FISH 123 

balls two inches in diameter, and fry in a basket 

in deep, hot fat nntil a rich brown. 

Serve with these steaming hot Boston brown 

bread, kept hot in a steamer and sliced at the 

last moment. 

Codfish Cakes 

Prepare the fish and potatoes the same as for 
codfish balls ; add a little finely minced parsley. 
Shape it into fiat cakes three-f onrths of an inch 
thick. Sante nntil a rich brown on both sides 
with slices of salt pork or bacon, removing the 
pork to a hot platter as soon as nicely crisped, 
and arranging it around the cakes. 

By cooking the fish the day before it is 
wanted, and using mashed potatoes left from 
dinner, or made ready with the fish, these cakes 
can be quickly prepared for breakfast. 

Codfish Fillets* Hollandaise 

Put the desired number of fillets of cod in a 
buttered stewpan, with 1 gill of stock; sprinkle 
lightly with minced parsley, and set either in 
the oven or on the stove to cook. When done, 
place on a dish with a border of mashed potato, 
and serve. 

Codfish* Maitre d'Hdtel 

Trim your fillets of cod and roll them in flour. 
Beat and season 2 eggs, dip the fillets in these, 
and then roll in sifted bread crumbs and fry 



124 SOUPS^ GHO^TDERS^ AND FISH 

to a golden brown. Serve with maitre d 'hotel 
sauce in a boat. 

Codfish Hash 

Flake a cupful of cooked cod, and add grad- 
ually 2 cupfuls boiled potatoes; season with 
salt and pepper to taste; cook gently in hot 
butter. 

Codfish in Cream Sauce 

^ pound of codfish; 1 pint of milk; yolk of 
1 egg ; 2 tablespoonf uls of butter ; 2 tablespoon- 
f uls of flour ; 1 saltspoonf ul of salt ; 1 saltspoon- 
ful of pepper. 

Soak the cod overnight in cold water. In the 
morning pick it apart and place it in a kettle 
of boiling water ; bring to the boiling point and 
drain. Place in boiling water again, and let 
it cook slowly about ten minutes. Drain. Cook 
the flour and butter together until smooth, add 
the milk, and when it begins to boil add the 
codfish, salt, and pepper. Place over hot water 
for twenty minutes, then add the yolk of the 
egg and serve immediately. Serve in a border 
of mashed potatoes, or with plain boiled po- 
tatoes. 

Codfish h la Bonne Femme 

Soak 3 pounds of salt codfish overnight. In 
the morning wash and rinse the pieces well and 
cut into strips. Wash and peel a quart of po- 



FISH 125 

tatoes and put them in a saucepan with 2 quarts 
of cold water ; add half a tablespoonf ul of salt, 
4 sprigs of parsley, and 1 clove stuck in an 
onion. Boil twenty-five minutes, then add the 
pieces of codfish. Cook slowly for ten minutes. 
Take the fish out and place it on a hot platter, 
removing all pieces of skin and bone. Drain 
the potatoes, then place them around the fish. 
Put 1 heaping tablespoonful of butter and 1 of 
flour into a small saucepan and stir for three 
minutes, but do not let it brown. Slowly pour 
into the saucepan 1 pint of the strained water 
in which the fish was cooked. 

Season with half a saltspoonful of pepper 
and let it simmer for eight minutes. Bemove 
from the fire and add the well-beaten yolks of 
2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, and 1 table- 
spoonful of butter. Mix well together and 
pour over the fish and potatoes. Serve very 

hot. 

Codfish with Macaroni 

2 ounces of macaroni ; ^ pound of salt cod ; 
% pint of strained tomatoes ; 1 tablespoonful of 
butter ; 1 tablespoonful of flour ; 1 tablespoonful 
of onion juice; 1 teaspoonful of salt; 1 salt- 
spoonful of pepper. 

Break the macaroni into small pieces and boil 
rapidly for half an hour ; drain ; throw into cold 
water and let stand for fifteen minutes. Wash 



f26 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

and cut the codfish into small blocks. The fish 
should have soaked overnight. 

Bub the flour and butter together, add the 
tomato, and let it come to a boil, stirring con- 
stantly. Now add the macaroni, fish, onion 
juice, salt, and pepper. Mix until boiling, 
stand over hot water for thirty minutes. 

Matelote of Codfish 

Wash and rinse a medium-sized cod; wip^ 
until dry and remove the bones. Fill the fish 
with a dressing made of % pint of oysters, $, 
small pint of bread crumbs, 2 teaspoonfuls of 
butter, 1^ an onion, 1 egg, i/^ tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, and a little pepper. Lay 
some slices of salt pork on the grating of your 
baking-pan; place the fish on these, and lay 
more slices on top of the fish. Boil the fish- 
bones in a pint of water and pour into the bot- 
tom of potatoes and put them in a saucepan 
with 2 quarts of cold water. Add % table- 
spoonful of salt, 4 sprigs of parsley, and 1 clove 
stuck in an onion. Boil twenty-five minutes, 
then add the pieces of codfish. Cook slowly 
for ten minutes. Take the fish out and place 
it on a hot platter, removing all pieces of skin 
and bone. Drain the potatoes, then place them 
around the fish. Put 1 heaping tablespoonful 
of butter and 1 of flour into a small saucepan 



FISH 127 

and stir for three minutes, but do not let it 
brown. Slowly ponr into the saucepan 1 pint 
of the strained water in which the fish was 
cooked. Season with ^ saltspoonful of pep- 
per, and let it simmer for eight minutes. Be- 
move from the fire and place in the pan. Bake 
for an hour, basting occasionally with the 
gravy and the butter. Have a bouquet of herbs 
in one comer of your baking-pan. Pour the 
gravy around the fish and serve immediately. 

Codflsh Souffl6 

% pound of salt cod ; 2 eggs ; 1 pint of mashed 
potatoes ; 1 saltspoonful of pepper. 

Pick the fish apart and wash it well in cold 
water; then cover with boiling water and let 
stand for thirty minutes; drain, and press dry. 

Beat the mashed potato until very light, stir 
in the fish, add the pepper, then the yolks of 
the eggs, and lastly, fold in the whites of the 
eggs, which have been well beaten. Put into a 
baking-dish, and bake in a hot oven until a 
golden brown. 

This souffle is good to take the place of cod- 
fish ba,lls. 

Stewed Codfish 

% pound of salt codfish ; 1 tablespoonf ul but- 
ter; 1 quart of milk; 2 potatoes; 2 crackers; 
% teaspoonful salt; 1 saltspoonful of pepper. 



128 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

Soak the codfish overnight in cold water. 
When ready to make the stew, cnt the fish into 
small pieces and put into the stewing-pan with 
the potatoes, which have been cut into blocks. 
Cover with boiling water, and boil for ten min- 
utes ; then drain, and add the milk. When the 
milk has become scalding hot, add the crackers, 
which should be crushed fine. Season with 
salt, pepper, and butter. 

A Salt-Cod Tidbit 

Soak 2 pounds of salt cod overnight. In the 
morning wash and scrub it well, and cover with 
hot water in which an onion has been boiled. 
Let the fish lie in this until the water is cold. 
Then take the fish up and place between two 
towels until perfectly dry. Broil on both sides, 
turning it twice. 

Lay it in a hot-water dish; break to pieces 
with a fork, and cover well with hot drawn but- 
ter, seasoned with pepper, minced parsley, and 
the juice of 1 lemon. Let it stand, covered, for 
ten minutes over the hot water before serving. 

Cod Tongues with Egn Sauce 

Soak the tongues overnight in warm water, 
changing it once. Put them in boiling water 
and boil for ten minutes. Have hot pieces of 
toast on small platter f brush the tongues with 
egg sauce, and serve them on the toast. 



FESH 129 

Cod TonsueSt Fried 

Have 2 dozen cod tongues washed; dip each 
separately in cold milk, then roll in flour. 

Heat a teacupful of butter in a frying-pan, 
lay in the tongues without their touching each 
other, and cook three minutes; turn, and cook 
on the other side for three minutes more. 
Serve with a gill of tomato sauce in a sauce- 
boat. 

Cod TonKues, Poulette 

Blanch 18 tongues ; put into saucepan with a 
pint of Hollandaise sauce and ^ gill of the 
stock in which they were blanched. Add a tea- 
spoonful chopped parsley, and heat a few min- 
utes without allowing it to boil. Turn into 
dish, sprinkle over a little finely chopped pars- 
ley, and serve. 

Cod Tonffues with Black Butter Sauce 

Put into a saucepan 18 blanched cod tongues 
with half a gill of the stock they were blanched 
in ; let them get hot, but do not boU. 

Drain and lay on hot dish ; pour over them a 
pint of black butter sauce. 

Broiled Mackerel 

Select a medium-sized fresh mackerel, wash, 
and wipe very dry. Take out the gills and insides. 
Split it down the back and wipe the inside thor- 



wo SOUPS> CHOVDKRS, AND FBH 

oughly. Sprinkle with salt and i)epper and 
brash it over with a little butter. Put it on the 
broiler with the inside next to the fire, which 
must be clear and hot. When nearly done, turn 
and cook on the outside. It is done when the 
backbone can be easily removed. Take out the 
bone, lay the fish on a hot platter with the in- 
side uppermost, and pour over it a tablespoon- 
ftd of butter, 2 teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, a 
teaspoonful of minced parsley, salt, and pep- 
per, and set it in the oven for a few minutes 
until the butter and lemon juice are absorbed. 

Boiled Mackerel (German Method) 

Clean a large fresh mackerel and split it 
down the back. Put it in a dripping-pan and 
pour over it a pint of boiling water, 2 table- 
spoons of vinegar, the sauce of lemon juice, and 
a teaspoon of salt. Add a medium-sized onion 
cut in quarters. Boil for three-quarters of an 
hour. Remove the fish to a hot platter. Strain 
the liquor in the pan, add a dozen capers, let it 
boil up, and turn over the fish. 

Mackerel Broiled, and Tarraeon Butter 

Bemove the inside of the fish through the 
gills and vent without opening it. Wash, dean, 
dry, and make a deep incision down the back; 
lay the fish in a little salad-oil; keep it well 
basted for about three-quarters of an hour, but 



FISH S3f 

cut off the nose or part of the head and tail be- 
fore it is steeped in the oil. Broil over a clear 
fire, and when done, have ready the following 
mixture, with which fill up the incision : Work 
a little butter, pepper, salt, and tarragon-leaves 
chopped and steeped in vinegar together. When 
ready, serve the mackerel with some of the but- 
ter spread over it on a hot dish. Time, from 
ten to fifteen minutes to broil. 

Mackerel, Caveach 

Divide large fresh fish, after being well 
cleansed and dried in a cloth, into 5 pieces, and 
rub each piece with spice, as follows: Pound 
an ounce of black pepper and 6 blades of mace ; 
mix them when pounded with 2 ounces of salt, 
and % ounce of grated nutmeg. Use all the 
above spices for 6 fish, rubbing well in, that 
every piece may be thoroughly seasoned with 
spice; then fry in oil. Drain, and put the fish 
neatly into a. jar, which fill with good vinegar, 
adding clarified butter or oil to exclude the air. 
Tie down closely. Mackerel so prepared will 
keep for six months. Time, ten minutes to 
fry. 

Baked Fresh Mackerel with Oyster 

Dressing 

Scrape and clean the fish; make an opening 
in the side and remove the entrails, cut off the 



132 SOUPS» CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

head and tail. Wash well in cold water and fill 
the opening with a dressing made of 1 dozen 
oysters, chopped, and 1 teacupful of bread 
crumbs, the chopped yolks of 2 hard-boiled 
eggs. Season with a half teaspoonful of onion 
juice, a tablespoonful of butter, a little minced 
parsley, salt, and pepper. Add the yolk of 1 
raw egg, mix well together, and fill the fish. 
Sew up the opening or skewer it together, with 
small skewers or modem toothpicks. 

Lay the fish on a well-buttered baking sheet, 
put it in the dripping-pan, and dredge with 
flour, and pour around it a cupful of boiling 
water and the sauce of stock. Baste often with 
melted butter and the drippings. Bake in a 
hot oven, and when done slide, without break- 
ing, on the hot platter and make a brown sauce 
with the liquor in the pan, adding sufficient 
boiling water, 2 tablespoonfuls of tomato 
catsup, a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, 
and more salt and pepper if necessary. 

Bed snapper and other medium firm fish may 
be baked in the same way. 

Baked Shad 

Clean and scale a medium-sized shad. Cut 
off the head and taU, cut open sufficiently to 
take out the entrails. Wash in cold water and 
dry on a towel. Fill the opening with a dress- 



RSH S33 

¥■■■'■■ ■ ' I 

ing made of 2 cups of bread crumbs, the beaten 
yolk of 1 egg, a tablespoonfxd of melted butter, 
a teaspoonful of lemon juice, a few drops of 
onion juice, or a spoonful of finely minced 
onion, a tablespoonful of finely powdered sweet 
herbs, 2 or 3 crushed cloves, a half teaspoonful 
of salt, pepper, and a dash of Worcestershire 
sauce. 

Sew up the opening, lay the fish on the but- 
tered sheet. Score the fish and put a slice of 
salt pork in each gash. Dredge lightly with 
fiour, dust with salt and pepper, put it in the 
baking-pan, pour a cupful of water in the pan, 
and bake in a hot oven, fifteen minutes for each 
pound of fish. When done, lift the tin from 
the pan and slide the fish carefully on to a hot 
platter. Garnish with a border of potato balls 
and slices of lemon, and serve with a Holland- 
aise or sauce piquante. 

Creamed Shad 

Free a pint of cold cooked shad from bones 
and fiake it very fine. Make a white sauce by 
cooking together a tablespoonful of butter with 
1 of flour, and when nicely blended, add a pint 
of rich milk. Now add a few drops of onion 
juice, and pour slowly upon the well-beaten 
yolks of 2 eggs. 

Season with salt, pepper, and a teaspoonful 



134 SOUPS» CHOWDERS^ AND FISH 

of minoed parsley. Stir the shad into the 
sauce, then turn into a well-buttered pudding- 
dish, sprinkle thickly with fine bread crumbs, 
and bake about twenty minutes. 

Broiled Shad 

Clean the fish, split down the back, wash in 
cold water, and wipe it dry. Brush lightly with 
melted butter, dust with salt and pepper, and 
broil over a clear fire or under the gas flame. 
When the inside is done and nicely browned, 
turn and broil slightly on the skin side. 

Serve with a maitre d'hotel sauce, or, if pre- 
ferred, a bechamel or HoUandaise. 

Fried Shad-Roe 

Wash the roe and cook ten or fifteen minutes 
in boiling salted water with a tablespoonful of 
vinegar. Pour off the water and then plunge 
into cold water. Drain then on a towel and 
roll in beaten egg and fine cracker crumbs, well 
seasoned, and fry in very hot fat. Serve with 
tomato sauce poured around it. 

Planiced Fish-Shad 

This most tempting of camping-out deli- 
cacies may be indulged in at the home table, 
and although the outdoor appetite and some of 
the delicate flavor imparted by cooking before 



FISH las 

an open fire may be lacking, this manner of 
cooking some fish, especially shad, is held by the 
fish-lover to be second to none. 

The white-oak planks, with trays for serving 
the fish without removing from the plank, can 
be obtained at first-class house-furnishing 
shops. They should be seasoned before the 
first using, by rubbing over with sweet butter 
and heating in a hot oven until slightly browned, 
taking care that they do not scorch. The flavor 
of the scorched wood will ruin the fish. 

The planks should not be washed after using, 
but should be cleaned by scraping with a dull 
knife and wiping off with cold water. 

While shad is the fish par excellence for 
planking, any other fish that is usually split 
down the whole length may be cooked in this 
way. 

Clean and scale the fish and split it open from 
head to tail. Place it on the board with the 
skin side down and fasten it securely with pegs 
or thumb tacks. Stand it on end or side before 
a clear fire or cook under a gas flame. When 
nearly done, baste with melted butter and shake 
salt and melted butter over it. If it is to be 
served on a platter, remove the fastenings, slide 
it off carefully to the hot platter, and garnish 
with pickled walnuts and some melted butter 
flavored with walnut catsup. 



136 SOUPS^ CHOVDERS^ AND FISH 

Creamed Shad-Roe with Mushrooms 

Parboil a large shad-roe for two or three 
minutes, and plnnge it in cold water. Drain 
and break it in small pieces and sante in butter 
until brown. Add while in the pan 1 cup of 
cream, salt, and pepper, and % cup of mush- 
rooms cut in small pieces and stewed for fifteen 
minutes. Bub a teaspoonful of flour with a 
little of the cold cream tmtil smooth; stir this 
in and let it boil up, stirring carefully, without 
breaking the roe more than necessary. Serve 
very hot. 

Scalloped Shad-Roe 

Boil the roe as before. Break apart with 
a fork. Butter a baking-dish and put a 
layer of roe in the bottom. Sprinkle with 
minced parsley, a little lemon juice, and the yolk 
of a hard-boiled egg mashed fine or rubbed 
through a strainer. Then add a thin layer of 
bread crumbs. Moisten with white sauce. Put 
in another layer of roe, seasoning, and egg, 
cover with the crumbs well buttered, and bake 
until nicely browned. 

If there is a little cold fish, it may be added 

to the roe. 

Roe Croquettes 

Boil the roe as for frying ; when cool, remove 
the skin and mash it with a fork. To 2 shad- 
roes allow a half cupful of cream and a half cup- 



FISH 137 

ful of thick stock. Bub together 1 tablespoonf ul 
of batter and 2 of flour, and add to the boiling 
cream and stock. Cook until it thickens, take 
it from the fire, and add the yolks of 2 well- 
beaten eggs, beating all together. 

Season with half a teaspoonful of salt, a dash 
of cayenne, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, and 
a little minced parsley. Add the shad-roe, mix 
well together, and when cool form into cro- 
quettes. Dip in beaten eggj then in fine cracker 
crumbs, and fry in hot fat. Serve with Hol- 
landaise sauce. 

Halibut Baked with Mifk 

Scrape the dark skin of the halibut, dipping 
it in boiling water. Lay the fish in the baking- 
pan, first rubbing it well with salt and white 
pepper. Pour around it % to % of a cup of 
milk. Bake until the flesh loosens and sepa- 
rates from the bone, basting often with the 
milk. A 4-pound cut of halibut will require 
nearly an hour to cook thoroughly. The milk 
should nearly all cook away or absorb in the 
fish, and will serve to make it more moist. 
When done remove to the hot platter without 
breaking, take off the skin, lift out the bone, 
garnish with slices of lemon and hard-boiled 
egg, and serve with cream sauce, plain drawn 
butter, or egg sauce. 



laa soups^ chowders, and fish 

This may be varied by filling the cavity left 
by the bone with buttered crumbs moistened 
slightly with a little cream sauce, dotting with 
bits of butter, and putting in the oven until 
well browned. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Baked Halibut with Lobster Sauce 

Take a thick cut of halibut, let it lie in salted 
water for half an hour, then drain and dry it, 
and put it in the baking-pan with 2 slices of 
carrot, a slice of onion, and y2 a bay leaf. Pour 
over it a cupful of boiling water in which have 
been melted 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Bake 
for an hour, basting frequently. A piece of 
buttered writing paper laid in the bottom of the 
pan will prevent the fish from sticking and 
breaking in transferring it to the hot platter. 
By running a knife or spatula under the paper 
it can be raised and slid off from the pan, and 
the paper can then be withdrawn and the skin 
removed, leaving the fish in shape. 

Boiled Halibut 

Have a cut of halibut from 2 to 3 inches in 
thickness. Bub with salt, and pour over it 2 
spoonfuls of lemon juice and let it stand where 
it will be kept cold for an hour. Put it in the 
fish-kettle and cover well with cold water, bring 
quickly to a boil, then keep it boiling gently 
untU done. Lift carefully to the hot platter 



FISH 139 

without breaking, garnish with slices of lemon, 
hard-boiled egg, and serve with plain drawn 
butter or cream sauce or chop the egg and add 
to the cream sauce* 

Broiled Halibut 

Take halibut steak an inch and a half thick. 
Wipe dry, sprinkle with salt, and brush it over 
with soft butter. BroU over a clear fire until 
both sides are nicely browned. Place it on a 
hot platter, garnish with slices of lemon and 
parsley, and serve with sauce piquante. 

French fried potatoes and baked tomatoes 
are a good accompaniment. 

Devilled Halibut 

Pick either cold cooked halibut or cod into 
small pieces with a silver fork. Make a force- 
meat of bread crumbs, the yolks of 2 eggs, a 
tablespoonful of melted butter, seasoned with 
salt, paprika, a teaspoonful of onion juice, and 
1 of minced parsley. Mix this with the fish, 
add enough oyster liquor to make quite moist, 
and fill scallop-shells with the mixture. 

Cover with fine crumbs, pepper and salt them, 
place a small piece of butter on each, and bake 
until light brown. 

Halibut & la Crtole 

Marinate a halibut steak for an hour in oil, 
lemon juice, and onion, with a sprig of parsley. 



140 SCXJPS, CHOWDER3» AND FISH 

Drain, and put the fish on the rack of the roast- 
ing-pan. Turn over it a sauce made of 1 cupful 
of strained tomatoes, a tablespoonful of butter, 
half a tablespoonful of flour, a few drops of 
onion juice, salt, and a little paprika. Cover 
closely, and bake until the fish is tender. Then 
sift over the fish a tablespoonful of grated Par- 
mesan or American cheese ; cook with the cover 
off for five minutes longer. Lift the fish out 
carefully to a hot platter, and pour the sauce 
around it. 

Halibut Steak Baked with Tomatoes 

Wash and clean the fish, then lay in salad oil 
and lemon juice for an hour; place upon the 
grating of your covered roaster, and pour the 
following sauce over it: Make a rich sauce of 
either fresh or canned tomatoes, season with 
sugar, pepper, salt, and onion juice, and a 
sweet green pepper, seeded and minced. Cook 
for fifteen minutes, strain, rub through a col- 
ander, and then let it cool before pouring over 
the fish. 

Halibut Steak A la Flamande 

« 

1 large halibut steak; 1 chopped onion; yolk 
of 1 egg ; 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice ; 1 salt- 
spoonful of pepper; 1 teaspoonful of salt; 1 
tablespoonful of butter. 

Wash and wipe the steak. Sprinkle tho 



FISH HI 

chopped onion over the bottom of a greased 
baking-pan and lay the fish on this. Turn the 
beaten yolk of the egg over the steak ; dust with 
salt and pepper, pour over the lemon juice, and 
the butter cut into small pieces. Place in a hot 
oven and bake thirty minutes. Turn out on a 
hot platter and garnish with parsley and slices 
of lemon. Serve with a brown sauce made in 
the pan the fish was cooked in. 

Cheese and Halibut Scallop 

Have 2 cupfuls of cold cooked halibut, flaked 
coarsely with a fork. Make a good white sauce 
by cooking together, a tablespoonful of drawn 
butter with 1 of flour, and when nicely blended 
add a pint of rich milk. Season, and pour 
slowly upon the well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs. 

Fill a bake-dish with alternate layers of the 
fish, sauce, and very mild grated cheese, using 
altogether about 4 tablespoonfuls of the cheese. 
Cover the top with crumbs, bake for thirty min- 
utes in a hot oven, and serve hot. About ten 
minutes before serving remove the cover, and 
brown. 

Boiled Salmon 

Clean the salmon and scrape the skin, wipe 
dry, and put it in the kettle with sufficient boil- 
ing water to cover it. Keep the kettle where 
it will boil gently. When done, drain well, re- 



i42 SC^JFS, CHOVDERS, AND FISH 

move carefully to a hot platter, and serve gar- 
nished with slices of lemon and hard-boiled 
eggs. Piquant or Hollandaise sauce is one of 
the best accompanunents to salmon. 

A border of Parisienne potatoes piled around 
the platter, or heaped in mounds alternated 
with the slices of lemon, makes a pretty dish. 
The potato balls should be fried in a frying 
basket in deep, hot fat until they are a nice 
brown. 

Striped bass is excellent boiled in the same 
way as salmon and served with HoUandaise 
sauce. Bemove the head and tail of any fish 
that is to be cooked whole. They are most un- 
appetizing and unsightly. 

Baked Salmon-Trout with Cream Gravy 

Wash, wipe dry; anoint well, inside and out, 
with melted butter and lemon juice. Lay the 
fish upon the grating of the baking-pan, pour a 
little boiling water in, but not enough to touch 
the fish. Bake, allowing twelve minutes to the 
pound, and baste twice with butter and twice 
with water from the pan below. 

Place the fish in a hot covered dish, and set 
where it will keep hot while you strain the gravy 
left in the pan. Add to the gravy a cupful of 
scalded milk with a pinch of soda. Thicken 
with a white roux of butter cooked with flour. 



J 



FISH 143 

and season with salt, paprika, and a little 
minced parsley. Pour this over the fish ; let it 
stand a* few moments, and serve. 

Boiled Salmon-Trout 

Buy a small fish and, after cleaning it, place 
it in a kettle with enough boiling water to cover, 
and add 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar to the 
water. The fish should be sewed up in a piece 
of cheesecloth and placed carefully into the 
kettle. Boil, allowing twelve minutes to each 
pound of fish. When done, remove the fish 
carefully, and turn out of the cloth upon a hot 
platter. 

Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and pour a 
well-seasoned white sauce over it. Garnish the 
platter with sprigs of parsley and thin slices of 
lemon. 

A Curry of Salmon 

Bemove all bits of skin and bone from a can 
of salmon. Fry a minced onion in 2 table- 
spoonfuls of olive oil. When the onion becomes 
brown, stir in a tablespoonful of flour mixed 
with a teaspoonf ul of curry powder, and when 
these are well blended together add a large cup- 
ful of boiling water. 

Season with salt and paprika, and turn the 
salmon into the saucepan. Cook two minutes, 
then serve. 



f44 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND RSH 

■ I • ■ I . - I m il 111 . ■r^— — ^— ^ 

Broiled Smoked Salmon 

Take a piece of raw smoked salmon, wash it 
in 2 waters, rubbing off all the salt. Lay in a 
frying-pan with enough warm water to cover 
it; let it simmer fifteen minutes. Bemove it, 
wipe dry, and lay on a buttered gridiron to 
broil. When it is browned on both sides, turn 
out on a hot platter, butter it well, and pepper 
it. Garnish with parsley. 

Salmon Mayonnaise 

Have a gallon of salted water and a gill of 
vinegar boiling in a kettle. Lay 2 salmon 
steaks carefully in the water. Boil slowly, and 
when done, but not at all broken, take carefully 
from the water and drain. Set aside until cool 
and then place on ice until wanted. Lay the 
steaks on a cold platter, and cover them 
smoothly with a thick mayonnaise. Garnish 
with watercress. 

Pickled Salmon 

Take a fine fresh salmon, and having cleaned 
it, cut it into large pieces, and boil it in salted 
water, as if for eating. Drain it, wipe it with a 
dry towel, and set it in a cold place until the 
next day. Then make the pickle in proportion 
to the quantity of fish. To 1 quart of the water 
in which the salmon was boiled, allow 2 quarts 
of good cider vinegar, 1 ounce of whole black 



FISH as 

pepper, 1 grated nutmeg, and a dozen blades 
of mace. Boil all of these together in a covered 
kettle. B^move the kettle from the jBre, and 
when the vinegar has become cold, pour it over 
the salmon and put a tablespoonful of sweet oil 
on the top to make it keep longer. Cover 
closely, put in a cool, dry place. This is a nice 
way to pickle salmon, and it will keep good for 
many months. 

Salmon on Toast 
Toast thin slices of stale bread quite brown 
and crisp. Butter while hot. Heat 2 cupfuls, 
or 1 can, of cold salmon picked into small flakes ; 
add a cupful of lobster sauce, a half cupful of 
sweet cream, salt, white pepper, and a dash of 
paprika. When very hot remove from the fire, 
stir in 1 egg (beaten very light), and pour over 
the toast. Sift a little very finely minced pars- 
ley over the top, or garnish with watercress. 
Drawn butter or oyster sauce may be substi- 
tuted for the lobster sauce. 

Salmon Pie 

Butter a baking-dish, line the sides with a 
rich biscuit crust. If fresh salmon is used, 
rinse thoroughly and wipe dry, cut in conveni- 
ent pieces, and lay it in the dish. Season with 
salt and pepper, lemon juice, 1 or 2 blades of 
mace, broken fine, and, if liked, a few drops of 



S46 SOUP^ CHGimERS, AND FISH 

onion juice. Ponr over the salmon 1 cnpfnl of 
boiled lobster which has been picked apart and 
thoroughly mixed with 2 tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter and a teaspoonful of Worcester- 
shire sauce. 

Cover with the crust, cut a few slits to allow 
the steam to escape. Bake for an hour in a 
moderate oven. 

Canned salmon may be used instead of the 
fresh, baking in a quicker oven just long enough 
to bake the crust. 

Scallop of Salmon 

Open a can of salmon two or three hours be- 
fore using, and remove all bits of skin and bone. 
Flake the fish into small pieces. Make a white 
sauce, and when done stir in the salmon. Pour 
all into a well-buttered pudding-dish, cover with 
bread crumbs and small pieces of butter, and 
bake. 

Baked Smelts with Oyster Force-meat 

Clean, wash, and wipe dry, then fill with a 
force-meat made of 1 part fine crumbs, 3 parts 
finely minced oysters, a tablespoonf ul of melted 
butter to each cupful of the force-meat, sea- 
soned with salt, paprika, and a little minced 
parsley. 

Sew the fish up with long stitches ; lay on the 
grating of your covered roaster, having a little 



F]SH 147 

boiling water under the grating. Bake twenty 
minutes, basting once with butter when nearly 
done. Serve with lemon sauce. The threads 
should be cut carefully and drawn out before 
serving. 

Fried Smelts 

Cut off the tails and split open, and take out 
the backbone and insides. Wash and wipe dry. 
Sprinkle inside and out with salt and pepper, 
and fry in hot fat. Serve with sauce tar- 
tare. Or crumb them and saute in drippings 
and serve with HoUandaise of sauce piquante. 

Another way is to open the smelts at the gills 
and press out the insides by drawing them 
throtigh the thumb and fingers from the tail 
end. Wash out the opening, press dry, cut off 
the tail, dust with salt and pepper, roll in flour 
or white commeal, or half of each, and fry in 
deep, hot drippings until crisp and browned. 

Stuffed Smelts 

Clean the smelts, wash and wipe dry, and fill 
them with a stuffing made of bread crumbs and 
melted butter mixed with an equal amount of 
tomato, and season with salt and pepper, or 
with half the amount of tomato catsup. 

Or add of chopped oysters the same amount 
as there is of bread crumbs; season with salt 
and pepper and a very little lemon juice. Sew 



S48 SOUPS» CHOVDER& AND FISH 

up the opening, lay them in a buttered baking- 
pan, and bake ten or fifteen minutes. Serve 
with mattre d 'hotel or parsley butter. 

Flounders au Gratin 

Cut up parsley, shallot, and small button- 
mushrooms very finely. Fry them in butter, 
with a seasoning of salt and pepper. Cover the 
bottom of a tin flat baking-dish, previously but- 
tered, with the herbs, and lay on them a floun- 
der, neatly trimmed, or fillets of any flat fish. 
Strew bread crumbs thickly over, and bits of 
butter on the top of all. Moisten with white 
wine. Cook carefully. Crisp the top with a 
salamander. Serve very hot and with a squeeze 
of lemon over the dish. Time, twenty minutes. 

Fried Flounders (English) 

Lay the fish in salt and water for an hour or 
more to get rid of the muddy flavor, or rub them 
well on the sides with salt, which will make the 
fish firm. Dry them, dip into egg, and cover 
with bread crumbs. Fry in oil or boiling fat, 
and serve on a hot napkin. Garnish with 
crisped parsley. Time, five to ten minutes to 
fry. 

Fillets of Flounders 

Bone the flounders by splitting down the back 
and removing the backbone, running the boning 



FISH 149 

knife under the small bones and taking the flesh 
off clear and whole; or the dealer will do this. 
Cut the flounders into four fillets, after discard- 
ing head and tail. Wash in cold salted water 
and wipe dry. Crumb them by dipping in egg 
and fine bread crumbs seasoned with salt and 
pepper and a little minced parsley. Fry (saute) 
in hot drippings until a rich brown, and serve 
with maitre d 'hotel or tomato sauce, or any 
well-seasoned fish sauce. 

Or make a sauce as follows : Take 1 cup of 
rich cream sauce or drawn butter, add a table- 
spoonful of chopped pickles, a teaspoonful of 
finely minced parsley, a teaspoonful of mus- 
tard, a tablespoonful of crushed capers, the yolk 
of a hard-boiled egg (mashed smooth), and a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice. Beat thoroughly 
together, and serve either hot or cold. 

Flnnan-Haddie & la Delmonico 

Pick a pound of finnan-haddie into small 
pieces. Make a sauce by cooking together 2 
tablespoonfuls of butter with 2 of flour, until 
they bubble ; then add a pint of rich milk. Add 
the yolks of 2 eggs, well-beaten, and 3 hard- 
boiled eggs, cut up fine; 1 tablespoonful of 
grated Edam cheese, and pepper to taste. Mix 
the fish with the sauce and heat it all thoroughly 
together, and serve at once. 



ISO SOUP& CHOWDERS^ ANt> FISH 

Broiled Finnan-Haddie 

Cut the finnan-haddie into small squares, 
skin and parboil them. Wipe the squares of 
fish until they are dry, place on a buttered grid- 
iron, and broil until they are highly browned. 
Lay the fish on a hot platter and put a small 
piece of butter on each square. Garnish with 
slices of lemon. 

Fried Eels 

Skin the eels, plunge them in boiling salted 
water, and keep at boiling point for five min- 
utes. Cut them in pieces about three inches 
long, and roll in flour or fine cracker crumbs; 
fry in hot drippings until brown, turning them 
so they will brown on all sides. Serve with any 
fish sauce that is liked, preferably one that has 
lemon juice or vinegar in its composition. 

Baked Eels 

Skin and parboil as for frying. Cut in con- 
venient lengths, put them in a baking-pan, 
dredge with flour, salt, and pepper, and add 
half a cup of water. Bake twenty minutes, take 
them out on a hot platter, and make a gravy 
by stirring into the pan a tablespoonful of flour, 
rubbing it smooth in the liquor in the pan. 
When smooth, but not browned, add a table- 
spoonful of butter, a teaspoonf ul of Worcester- 



FISH 151 

shire, a little boiling watcfr; stir until smooth 
and bubbling, and pour around the eels. 

Braised Eels (Royal Style) 

Skin and wash an eel, and cut in 2-incIi 
pieces; sprinkle with salt and allow them to 
stand an hour or two. Put into cold water for 
ten minutes J then dry, and put in a buttered 
saucepan, season with salt and pepper and a 
suspicion of nutmeg ; over the whole put a little 
scraped parsley root, a few whole white pep- 
pers, and a few slices of lemon and shallots. 
Put the saucepan over a moderate fire, with hot 
ashes on the lid, and braise till the fish is done. 
Take out the pieces of eel and keep hot while 
you add to the saucepan a cupful of stock ; boil 
a few minutes, then thicken with a white roux ; 
take from the fire, add the slightly beaten yolks 
of 3 eggs. Let it come to a boil, and strain this 
into a saucepan with twice the quantity of Ger- 
man sauce; let it boil once; pour over the eel, 
and serve. 

Turbot & la Crime 

Boil 3 pounds of turbot or cod in salted water. 
Bemove from the fire, take the fish out and free 
it from all pieces of skin and bone, and flake it 
finely. Boil 1 bunch of parsley and 1 large 
onion in a little water to extract the flavor. 
Drain out the onion and parsley and thicken 



fO SOUPS» CHOWDERS, AND FISH ' 

fhe water wifh 3 tablespoonftils of flour, fhen 
add 1 quart of very rich milk and ^ cnpfal of 
butter. Put alternate layers of fish and sauce 
in a buttered baking-dish, sprinkle the top 
thickly with bread crumbs, and bake until 
brown. 

Turbot Fillets 

Select a medium-sized turbot with firm, yel- 
lowish-white flesh. Wash well in salted water, 
and soak in strongly salted water for thirty 
minutes. Wash off again in clear, cold water, 
and wipe dry. Take off the skin, and cut the 
fish in two the whole length. Take out the 
bone, and remove the entrails ; wash out the in- 
side, and cut each part into 2 or 3 fillets. 

Bub with melted butter,, dust with salt and 
pepper, and saute or broil over hot coals or 
under a gas flame uiitil a rich brown. Serve 
with maitre d 'hotel or parsley butter, or 
cucumber sauce. Garnish with cress. 

Stuffed Sea Bass 

After cleaning and wiping the fish, lay it in 
a marinade of salad oil and vinegar. Fill the 
fish with minced salt pork and fresh mush- 
rooms, if you can get them ; if not, use chopped 
champignons. 

Bake the fish as directed in the last recipe, 
placing thin slices of pork underneath and on 



FISH 153 

top of the fish. After it has baked about forty 
minutes, cover with thin slices of tomatoes and 
half of a minced sweet green pepper. Put 
some bits of butter upon the tomatoes and bake 
for twenty minutes more. 

Take the fish from the pan and set to one 
side. Strain the gravy, rubbing the pepper 
and tomatoes through a colander, stir in a table- 
spoonful of butter, rolled in flour, add a tea- 
spoonful of sugar, and 2 of onion juice; turn 
in a little hot water if it is too thick. Boil one 
minute, then pour part over the fish and the 
rest into the gravy-boat. 

Both bluefish and muskalonge are good 
treated in the same way. 

Boiled Black Bass with Cream Gravy 

After washing the bass well sew it up in a 
closely fitted piece of cheesecloth. Place in a 
pot with enough water to cover it, add a little 
salt, a gill of vinegar, an onion, 8 whole peppers, 
and a blade of mace. 

Bring slowly to a boil, and then boil steadily, 
allowing twelve minutes to each pound of fish. 
When done remove the cloth, turn the fish on 
to a hot platter. Garnish with slices of lemon, 
and serve with the following cream gravy : 

A tablespoonful each of butter and flour 
cooked until they blend, then a cupful of the 



154 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND PBH • 

strained boiled bass water stirred in, until it 
all becomes smooth and thick. Season to taste 
with celery salt and pepper, and stir in a gUl 
of cream* As soon as it becomes very hot, 
remove from the fire. 

Baked Bass with Shrimp Sauce 

Clean and wipe the fish well and wash in* 
side and out with salad-oil and vinegar. Set 
on ice for an hour. Cut half a pound of rind- 
less salt pork into very thin Blices ; lay half on 
the bottom of the bake-pan, put the fish on them, 
and then spread the rest of the pork on top of 
the fish. Pour a little hot water in the pan, 
cover, and bake for an hour. Baste two or three 
times with butter and water. Turn out on a 
hot dish, and set where it will keep hot while 
you make the gravy. 

Shrimp Sauce for Baked Bass 

Make a roux of a tablespoonful of butter and 
1 of browned flour ; stir this into the gravy left 
in the pan. Add 4 tablespoonfuls of boiling 
water, the juice of half a lemon, cayenne to 
taste, and half a can of finely chopped shrimps. 

Boil for a moment, pour some upon the fish, 
turn the rest into the gravy-boat. 

Steamed Red Snapper 

Clean, wash, and dry a 4-pound fish. Slice 
some tomatoes and place on the bottom of your 



FISH 155 

steamer with a minced onion. Place the fish on 
top of these, and steam slowly for an hour or 
more. 

After the fish has steamed about thirty min- 
utes, turn it carefully over. 

Serve with oyster sauce or with sauce tar- 
tare. 

Boiled Red Snapper 

After cleaning and washing a red snapper, 
wipe it dry and sew up in a coarse mosquito 
netting. Put it into a vessel with enough boil- 
ing water to cover it well, drop a pinch of salt 
in the water, and flavor with lemon juice. After 
the water comes to a boil turn the heat almost 
off, and let it simmer for half an hour. Take 
from the water carefully, drain, and unwrap; 
then turn out on a hot dish, and garnish with 
parsley, or serve with tomato sauce. 

Baked Red Snapper 

Draw, clean, and then wipe a 5-pound red 
snapper. Wash it inside and out with salad- 
oil and lemon. 

Make a stuffing of 1 well-beaten egg, 1 cupful 
of drained and chopped oysters, and half a 
cupful of powdered crackers. Add a table* 
spoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of onion 
juice, a teaspoonful of salt, 1 tablespoonful 
of minced parsley, y^ teaspoonful of paprika; 



156 SOUPSf CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

moisten with cream and the oyster liquor 
until it is quite moist. After the fish is filled 
with the dressing sew the edges together. Put 
a layer of minced fat pork, together with a 
few slices of tomato and onion, on the grating 
of the roaster. Place the fish on this, and 
dredge the top with flour and salt, and place 
more minced pork on the top. Add a cupful of 
hot water and bake for about an hour in a hot 
oven, basting often. Serve with HoUandaise 
sauce. 

Broiled Bloaters 
Scrape and clean the bloaters well, then wipe 
dry with a towel. Split from head to tail and 
lay them flat upon a buttered gridiron. Broil 
for about six minutes, turning so as to cook on 
both sides. When they are done, place them 
on a hot platter with a little butter over them^ 
and serve at once. 

Sardine Fritters (German) 

Cut slices of bread into equal-sized shapes 
more than ^ inch thick, and enough of them to 
form a ring around the edge of a small dish. 
Beat 2 or 3 eggs and mix them with rather more 
than their measure of milk. Soak the bread 
slices in this, and fry them in butter a delicate 
pale brown. Lay the slices around the edge of 
your dish, letting one slice rest on the edge of 



nSH J57 

flie other. Lay poached eggs in the middle of 
the dish, and put on them the following sauce, 
which must be thick enough to spread: Mince 
the yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs quite small. 
Chop fine some parsley, a little sprig of tarra- 
gon, and some pimpernel or bumet. Melt a piece 
of butter in a stewpan, put in the minced herbs, 
and stir them a few minutes to soften ; then add 
salt, pepper, and the minced eggs, with a des- 
sertspoonful of gravy, the same of lemon juice 
or vinegar, a spoonful of capers, a little oil and 
mustard, and, if required, a few crumbs to 
thicken. Stir all together. Put a small tuft on 
each poached eggy and spread the rest on the 
wreath of sippets. Take about a dozen of sar- 
dines, bone them, and mince them small with a 
piece of butter and a little cayenne. Divide 
and spread this on the sippets; place them to 
warm for a minute in the oven, and serve. 

Sheep's Head & la Creole 

Into a stewpan put a chopped onion, and 
after removing the seed, a finely chopped green 
pepper. Brown for five minutes in a gill of 
oil ; adding then a tomato, cut up, 4 mushrooms 
sliced, a stalk of parsley, 1 of celery, a bay leaf, 
and a sprig of thyme, some cloves, and a little 
garlic. Season with salt and pepper, and 
moisten with sauce Espagnole. Cut a 6-pound 



158 SOUPS» CHOVDBRS, AND FISH 

fish into, say, 6 slices ; lay into the stewpan 'flat, 
and cook one hour over a very slow fire. When 
ready sprinkle chopped parsley over the whole. 
If desired, the fish may be left whole instead. 

Marinaded Herrings 

A German Recipe 

Put some white salted herrings into cold 
milk to soak for a couple of hours. Split them 
open, take out the bones, cut each half -herring 
into 3 pieces, and divide the roes lengthwise. 
Put all in layers into a deep jar, and between 
each layer place a sprinkling of finely minced 
shallot, pounded cloves, and white pepper, with 
here and there a piece of bay leaf and a slice 
of fresh lemon with half the rind taken off. 
Place the roe with the herring, and the season- 
ing over the top layer, and cover the whole well 
with vinegar. Pour 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of 
salad-oil over the vinegar, and leave it until 
required. The pieces of herring should be 
drained when wanted, and served either with 
cheese or as a relish for salads, breakfast, 
luncheon, etc. They may be used in a couple 
of days, but will keep good for some time. 

Crayfish in Jelly 

Crayfish are something like lobsters, but 
smaller, and the flesh more delicate; indeed, 
they are more useful and delicious than any 



FISH 159 

other shellfish, and if every housekeeper were 
to enquire for them two or three times at the 
fishdealer's they would soon become plentiful. 
There are several kinds; those are considered 
the best which are reddish under the claws. To 
serve them in jelly, take a pint of fish for 
rather less than a pint of savory or aspic 
jelly. Put a little jelly at the bottom of a 
mould ; when it is cold, lay the crayfish upon it, 
and repeat this until the materials are finished, 
but care must be taken to let the jelly stiffen 
each time, or all will sink to the bottom, and also 
to put the fish in with the back downwards, or 
they will be wrong side up when turned out. 
Garnish with parsley. This is a pretty dish. 
Time, thirty-six hours or more. SuflScient for 
a quart mould. 

Filleted Sole i& ritalienne) 

Fillet a large fresh sole in the usual way, and 
divide each fillet into halves by cutting it across. 
Season the pieces with pepper and salt, and rub 
them over with cut lemon. Bub 2 ounces of 
butter into 8 ounces of biscuit flour. Add a 
pinch of salt, and make a stiff paste by mixing 
with the flour the yolk of an egg which has been 
beaten up with the eighth of a pint of cold 
water. Roll this paste out very thin, and cut 
it into pieces of a size and shape that will en- 



160 SOUPS, CHOm>ERS, AND FISH 

tirely cover the filleted fish. Wrap each piece 

of fish in the paste, press the edges closely, and 

fry the fillets in hot fat over a slow fire till they 

are brightly browned. Drain them from the 

fat, and serve on a dish in a circle, with one 

fillet overlapping the other. Pour cold tartare 

sauce into the centre, and serve. Time to fry the 

fillets, about half an hour. Sufficient for four 

or five persons. 

Anchovies 

Anchovies are highly esteemed little seafish, 
obtained principally from the Mediterranean; 
some small schools are found along the coast of 
Great Britain. The fish are attracted to the 
boats at night by means of lights, and are 
caught in nets. After the heads have been 
cut off and the bodies cleaned, they are put in 
brine and packed in barrels ; for the market they 
are afterward put into bottles. The pickle of 
the best fish is a clear pink and without sedi- 
ment; the cheaper sorts are cloudy, and red 
only on being stirred, with a thick red sediment. 
The scales are removed from Dutch anchovies ; 
French anchovies are of larger size; both 
varieties are pale in color. 

Anchovies should be carefully cleaned, 
trimmed, and boned, then soak for two hours 
in cold water ; dry with a cloth, and with a silver 
or plated knife divide the backs. 



FISH 161 

To serve, lay the halves on a dish, garnish 
with the white of a hard-boiled egg, chopped 
fine, and pour over salad-oil. 

Boiled Haddock with Ege Sauce 

Shred 2 ounces of beef suet very finely, and 
mix with it 4 ounces of finely grated bread 
crumbs, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
a teaspoonful of thyme, and a shallot, finely 
minced; add a little pepper and salt, and a 
grate or two of nutmeg, and work all together 
with a raw egg. Fill the haddock with this 
stuffing, sew it up with strong thread, truss it 
in the shape of the letter S, and boil it in salt 
and water. When done, take it up, drain, and 
serve garnished with parsley. Boil 2 eggs for 
seven minutes. When cold, powder the yolks, 
and mix them with half a pint of good melted 
butter. Add the whites, cut up into small dice, 
boil up once, and serve in a tureen. Time to 
boil a good-sized haddock, half an hour. A 
haddock weighing two pounds is sufficient for 
three or four persons. 

Dressed Whitebait 

Take the whitebait out of the water with the 
fingers, drain them, and throw them into a cloth 
upon which flour has been strewn. Shake them 
in the cloth to make the flour adhere to them, 
then toss them in a large wide sieve to free 



M2 SOUPSr CHOIFDERS^ AND FISH 

them from the snperfluouB flonr. If the fish 
stick together, separate them, but they will not 
'do this if they are fresh. Have ready plenty 
of boiling beef -fat (this is much better than 
lard, which is usually recommended), put the 
whitebait, a few at a time, into a wire basket, 
plunge in the boiling fat, and leave them for 
a minute or two. At the end of that time shake 
them to keep them from sticking together, and 
when they are slightly crisp without being 
browned they are done enough. Drain them 
from the fat while they are still in the basket, 
sprinkle a little salt upon them, pile them on a 
napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve very 
hot. Send quarters of lemon and brown bread 
and butter to table with them. Time to fry the 
whitebait, a few minutes. 

Pike Baked in Sour Cream (German) 

Clean a pike weighing 3 or 4 pounds, or, if 
preferred, take part of a larger fish and cut 
into slices free from skin and bone. Mince 2 
small onions very finely, and break up 2 bay 
leaves into little pieces. Butter a pie-dish 
thickly, and lay in it the slices of fish, with the 
onion and the bay leaves distributed amongst 
them. Season with salt and cayenne, and pour 
half a pint of sour cream over the fish. Bake 
in a moderate oven, and when three-fourths 



FISH 163 

done strew finely grated bread crumbs thickly 
over it and return it to the oven to color. Lift 
the slices carefully into a hot dish, and make 
a gravy by mixing a little stock or water, and a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice, with the cream^ 
etc., in the dish. Mix thoroughly. Pour the 
gravy round the fish, and serve very hot. Time 
to bake, about half an hour. Sufficient for four 
or five persons. 

Whiting: aux Fines Herbes (Enellsh) 

Clean and skin the fish well and fasten it with 
its tail in its mouth. Place it on a dish, season 
with pepper and salt, and sprinkle over it a tea- 
spoonful of mixed sweet herbs in powder. Lay 
little pieces of butter here and there thickly 
upon it, cover with another dish, and bake in 
a moderately heated oven until done enough. 
Turn it once or twice that it may be equally 
cooked, and serve with the sauce poured over 
it. Time to bake the fish, twenty or thirty min- 
utes. One fish for each person. 

Broiled Brook Trout 

Split down the back and clean the trout. 
Brush over with olive oil or melted butter, dust 
with salt and pepper, and broil over hot coals. 

Or sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in olive 
oil or butter, then in commeal, and saute in oil 
or drippings. Garnish with slices of lemon 



164 SOUPS, CHOWDERS^ AND FISH 

and parsley or cress, and serve with parsley 
butter ponred around them. 

Fried Perch 

Washy scale, and clean the fish carefully, 
wipe them dry, and flour them lightly over ; then 
rub off the flour, dip them into beaten egg, and 
afterwards into finely grated bread crumbs, and 
fry them in plenty of boiling fat, until they are 
nicely browned. Drain them for a few minutes 
on an inverted sieve, serve on a hot dish, and 
garnish with parsley. Shrimp sauce, anchovy 
sauce, or plain melted butter are fine with 
perch. Time to fry varies with size. 

Fried Catfish 

Clean, wipe dry, and cut the fish in squares 
two or three inches across and about an inch 
thick. Beat 2 eggs very light, season with salt 
and pepper and a spoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce. Dip the fish in seasoned egg, then roll 
in cracker crumbs or commeal, and fry in one- 
half each lard and beef drippings until well 
browned. Garnish with sliced lemon and pars- 
ley or celery tops. 

Baked Pickerel 

Clean and wash a large fine pickerel. Lay it 
on the grating of your baking-pan, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, butter weU, and dredge 
with flour. 



FISH S66 

Place in a hot oven, and when the flour begins 
to brown, baste with butter, water, and lemon 
juice. 

Allow twelve minutes to each pound of fish. 
Serve with oyster sauce. 

Boned Baked Pickerel 

Remove the backbone and all the other bones 
which you can extract without tearing the fish 
too much. Lay in olive oil and lemon juice for 
an hour. 

Place very thin slices of salt pork on the 
grating of the bakepan, lay the fish, skin side 
downward, on top of the salt pork, and wash 
with melted butter. Cover the pan, bake forty 
minutes, basting it once. Serve with Hol- 
landaise sauce. 

Baked Carp 

Have the fish opened at the gills and the in- 
testines drawn out through the opening. Wash 
the flesh with vinegar and let it stand for fifteen 
minutes. Fill the fish with a bread stuffing, and 
sew the head down firmly. Brush the fish all 
over with an egg, cover it thickly with bread 
crumbs and a few lumps of butter. Put 2 
chopped onions and a bunch of parsley in the 
pan, and a cup of water mixed with 1 teaspoon- 
ful of Worcestershire sauce. 

Bake for an hour in a moderate oven, basting 



166 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

occasionally. When the fish is done, place it 
on a heated platter and garnish with sUces of 
lemon. Add enough water to the gravy in the 
pan to make a half pint. Thicken with a table- 
spoonful of flour rubbed into 1 of butter. Cook 
for a moment, strain, add the juice of a lemon, 
and pepper and salt to taste. Serve in a gravy- 
boat. 

Stursreon 

2 pounds of sturgeon ; 1 pint of milk ; 1 tea- 
spoonful of salt; 1 tablespoonful of flour; 1 
tablespoonful of butter; 1 saltspoonful of pep- 
per. 

Cut the fish into small squares, put them in 
a stewing-pan with 2 quarts of boiling water; 
simmer for fifteen minutes, drain the water off. 
Add the butter, salt, and pepper. Moisten the 
flour with the milk and pour over the sturgeon, 
then let it come to a boil and serve. 

Sturgeon may be baked, broiled, or panned, 
but it always must be parboiled first. 

How to Dress Terrapin 

Terrapin, like lobster, should be alive. First 
wash it in a large pan of water, and drop it, 
head downward, into a kettle containing plenty 
of rapidly boiling water. Boil five or ten min- 
utes; take it out and, with a damp cloth, rub 
off the white skin from the head and feet. Put 



FBH W 

it again over the fire and cover with freshly 
boiling water, with a teaspoonful of salt to each 
qnart. Boil slowly nntil tender and the shells 
begin to fall away from the sides ; it will some- 
times take not more than twenty minntes, and 
it often takes forty or forty-five minntes. 

When the shells can be separated take the 
terrapin from the water, let it cool, then cut off 
the nails, break the shell on the flat side, and 
remove the meat. Take out the insides, care- 
fully separate the liver from the gall-bag, and 
put it aside, throwing away the gall, the inside 
muscle and tail, the head, entrails, and bladder. 

Divide the legs at the joints, and cut into 
small pieces. Cut the liver into small pieces 
and put this, with the eggs and meat, in a sauce- 
pan. This is all of the terrapin that is used. 
Pour over it boiling water enough to nearly 
cover, add salt and a little cayenne, and cook 
ten minutes. It is then ready to serve with 
sauces, or for soups, etc. 

If the terrapin has no eggs, egg balls may 
be made and substituted. 

Stewed Terrapin 

Drop into boiling water and cook until the 
heads and feet can be removed. Not quite an 
hour should be suflScient for this. When they 
get cold, remove the shells, and very carefully 



f68 SOUI^ CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

extract the heart and entrails, being careful not 
to break the gall-bag. Cut the head, tail, and 
feet off, and cut the meat into small pieces. 
Put into a saucepan with enough water to 
cover, and sinmier fifteen minutes. 

Powder the yolks of 6 hard-boiled eggs and 
work in 3 tablespoonfuls of butter. In another 
vessel heat a cupful of cream with a pinch of 
soda, and work slowly into the egg and butter. 
Season with salt and cayenne pepper, and mix 
slowly with the hot terrapin. Cook one minute, 
add a glass of sherry, and pour out. 

When done, put the fish on a platter, and pour 
half the fish stock over it; the remainder may 
be put in a sauce-boat. This may be served 
with any fish sauce preferred. 

Fricasseed Snapping Turtle 

Clean the turtle by throwing him into boiling 
water. Cut into small dice, sprinkle with pep- 
per, salt, a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, 
onion juice, and a dash of kitchen bouquet. Put 
into a tightly covered saucepan with enough 
water to cover, and simmer gently for thirty 
minutes. Then add a tablespoonful of browned 
flour rubbed into a tablespoonful of butter. 
When nicely blended together add a glass of 
sherry and the well-beaten yolk of an egg. Let 
all come to a boil, then remove from the fire, 
and turn out into a deep dish. 



FISH 169 

Lobster A la Newburfi: 

Eemove a boiled lobster from the shell and 
slice the meat about one-half inch thick, or cut 
into small pieces. Put in chafing-dish with a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut, a little 
cayenne pepper, salt, and lemon juice; add 1 
cup cream mixed smooth with 1 teaspoonful 
flour or the yolk of 3 eggs, and stir constantly 
over a slow fire, but do not boil. Serve in a 
hot dish. 

Lobster 

The whole of the lobster is good except the 
stomach, gills, and intestines. If one wants to 
use fresh lobster and does not understand how 
to open and separate one, a good way is to go 
to one 's marketman and get instructions. The 
shell may be so broken that it can be used for 
serving the lobster meat. 

Serving plain is the simplest, and some 
prefer it with only salt, pepper, and vinegar 
or lemon juice as a dressing, with, perhaps, 
Worcestershire and a little oil. 

Long cooking toughens the lobster, therefore, 
in all ways of preparing it, cook only imtil the 
meat is thoroughly heated. 

Lobster Stewed in Cream 

Cut the lobster in small pieces. Put in a 
saucepan half a cup of cream (or milk with a 



m SOUPS, CHOVDBRS, AND FISH 

teaspoonful of flour rubbed smooth in butter 
added). Let this boil up. Season with salt 
and pepper, add a tablespoonful of butter, put 
in the lobster, and bring to a boil. Serve very- 
hot, with toasted butter-thin crackers. 

Creamed Lobster on Toast 

Make a rich cream sauce well seasoned with 
cayenne. Dice the lobster, squeeze a little 
lemon juice over, mix, and let it stand a few 
minutes. Add it to the hot sauce, let it simmer, 
not boil, five minutes, and serve on a hot platter 
on rounds of buttered toast. To a pint of diced 
lobster allow a pint of sauce. 

Devilled Lobster 

Mince the lobster meat, mix with sufficient 
cream sauce to moisten, season with salt, 
cayenne, onion juice, Worcestershire sauce, 
mustard, and a very little minced parsley; add 
the yolk of 1 or 2 hard-boiled eggs mashed 
or minced fine. Serve hot with thin crackers, 
or cold for sandwiches, canapes, or as a lunch 
dish on crisp leaves of lettuce. 

Boiled Soft-shell Crabs 

Lift the projecting '* wings '* of the upper 
shell and remove the soft fins which lie under 
the sides of the back shell, and remove the flap 
or apron on the under shell. Wash and cook 



Jelly Fish CreKm 



Frazea Clun Cockttil 



FESH I7S 



quickly before the crabs die. Wash with butter, 
and sprinkle with salt and cayenne pepper. 
Broil ten minutes over hot coals, turning twice 
to broil both sides. Serve upon slices of but- 
tered toast. 

Fried Soft-shell Crabs 

Prepare the crabs as directed above. Sprinkle 
with salt and cayenne pepper, roll them in 
beaten egg, then in fine bread crumbs, again in 
egg and in the crumbs, and fry in deep, hot fat. 
Oamish with watercress and thin slices of 
lemon. 

Devilled Crabs 

Mix 2 cans of crabs with 1 cupful of cream, 
2 tablespoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce, 2 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, half a cupful 
of rolled cracker crumbs, a wineglassful of 
sherry, the yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs, a little 
nutmeg, and pepper and salt to taste. Bake in 
shells, sprinkle with cracker crumbs, and place 
a small piece of butter on each. 

Baked Crabs 

Break the claws off the crabs, open the shells^ 
and remove the spongy fingers and stomach. 
Pick the fish out, and cut into small pieces. 
Mix a little rich gravy with it, or cream, if you 
have it; add some curry paste and bread 



172 soups; aX>WDERS, AND FSH 

cminbs; salt and pepper to taste. Fill the 
shells, and bake. 

Scallops and E^ics 

1 pint scallops; 5 eggs; 2 tablespoonfols bat- 
ter; 1 teaspoonfnl parsley; salt and pepper. 

Simmer the scallops for ten or fifteen min- 
utes in slightly salted water. Pour off the 
water and cover quickly with cold. Pour this 
off and break the scallops in two. 

Heat the butter in a frying-pan, put in the 
scallops, and stir about gently until they begin 
to color; break in the eggs, shake in salt and 
pepper, and stir all briskly until the eggs are 
cooked. Have ready a hot platter with squares 
of buttered toast. Pour the scallops over, 
sprinkle with a little finely minced parsley, and 
garnish the edge of the platter with a few 
sprigs of parsley, and serve at once. 

Shrimps 

Shrimps are similar to lobster, and any of 
the recipes given for lobster may be used for 
shrimp. If they are to be stewed leave them 
whole. For scalloping, devilling, etc., cut fine 
and follow directions for lobster. 

An agreeable addition to scalloped shrimp is 
a tomato sauce, made as for fish, spread over 
each layer of shrimp. Cover all with buttered 
crumbs, and bake till brown. 



FISH 173 

Shrimp and Mushrooms 

Cut in small pieces^ and saute in butter 1 cup 
of mushrooms. Heat the same amount of 
shrimp in % cup of cream. When the cream 
boils, season with salt and white pepper, a tea- 
spoonful of Worcestershire sauce; add the 
sauted mushrooms. Mix well, and serve hot. 

FroKs' Less 

The liind-legs only are used for cooking. 
Bemove the skin, and wipe the bone end, or, if 
bought already skinned, wash off in cold water, 
and wipe with a towel. They may be stewed, 
fried, or broiled, and are most tender and de- 
licious. 

Fried 

Dip the legs in seasoned crumbs, then in egg, 
and in cnmibs again; put them in a frying- 
basket, and fry in hot fat two or three minutes. 
Serve on a hot platter with a mound of green 
peas, boiled rice, or macaroni baked in a mould 
and turned out in the centre of the platter. 

OYSTERS AND SHELLFISH 

Oysters on the Half-Shell 

Wash off the shells of as many Blue Points as 
are needed, open them, and loosen the oysters 
from the under shell, removing the upper shell. 
Serve on oyster plates, or on shallow soup- 



174 SOUPS, CHOWDmS, AND FISH 

plates, filled with cracked or shaved ice. Cut 
lemons in quarters, and serve on each plate 
with the oysters. Serve wijth them salt, pep- 
per, Worcestershire, Tabasco, or horseradish 
sauce. 

Stewed Oysters 

Drain a quart of fine oysters, and carefully 
remove all bits of shells. Strain the liquor, 
and put it in a saucepan. Bring it to a boil, 
and skim. Add a pint of hot milk, a tablespoon- 
ful of butter, and when at the boiling point add 
the oysters, a little pepper, and more salt if 
necessary. Cook only until the oysters begin 
to curl. The fire should be hot enough to cook 
them quickly, but care must be taken that they 
do not scorch after the milk ia added. Serve 
small, crisp crackers and pickled gherkins as 
an accompaniment. 

Creamed Oysters 

Drain the liquor thoroughly from a quart of 
fine oysters. Strain and heat the liquor in a 
saucepan, skimming off all the scum that rises 
as it comes to a boil. Put the oysters in the 
liquor with a piece of butter the size of a wal- 
nut, and when thoroughly hot, add a pint of 
rich, hot cream. Cook until the oysters curl; 
add salt and pepper, and serve at once. A des- 
sertspoonful of flour, worked smooth in a little 



nSH S75 

of the cold cream, may be added to the cream 
while it is heating ia a double boiler. Serve 
with squares of hot buttered toast, or serve 
poured over slices of buttered toast. 

Broiled Oysters, in tfie Sliell (or on tlie Half- 

Sliell) 

^ash off the outside of the shells and dry 
them. Open and remove the upper shell, lay 
them on a broiler and broil over a clear, hot 
fire, or under a gas flame. As soon as done put 
small bits of butter on each one, dust with a 
little salt and pepper, and serve in the shells 
with quarters of lemon. 

To Broil without Opening 

Wash the shells, lay them on a broiler, and 
put them directly on a bed of hot coals. As 
soon as the shells pop open they are done. 
Serve melted butter and lemon juice with them. 

Oyster Cocktail 

Select fine oysters of uniform size. Have 
them thoroughly chilled, having first taken care 
that they are free from bits of shell. Pour 
over them a dressing made of 1 tablespoonful 
each tomato catsup, lemon juice, Worcester- 
shire sauce, and grated horseradish (or horse- 
radish vinegar). Add a few drops of Tabasco 
situce, a little salt, a dash of cayenne. Let the 
oysters stand in this mixture until very cold, 



176 SOUPS^ CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

and serve in small, shallow glasses, or get fancy 
shells from a caterer to serve in. 

Another way is to chop the oysters slightly, 
in which case they need not be as large or of 
uniform size. Mix with the dressing and serve 
in cocktail glasses, or fancy baskets of grape- 
fruit shells, tomato cups, or any other way that 
fancy dictates. 

Broiled Oysters on Toast 

Select large fine oysters. Strain off the 
liquor and dry on a napkin. Butter the broiler 
and lay the oysters on it. Dust them with salt 
and pepper, and broil over a hot fire, turning 
the broiler so that both sides of the oyster shall 
be cooked. Have ready on a hot platter squares 
or rounds of buttered toast; place one or two 
oysters on each piece, put a bit of butter on 
top, squeeze a few drops of lemon juice over, 
and serve at once, garnished with cress. 

The cooking and serving must be done 
quickly, with no loss of time for cooling. 

Fried Oysters 

Drain, pick them over, dust with salt and 
pepper, roll in cracker crumbs, then in eggj in 
cracker crumbs again, and saute in hot butter 
until both sides are a golden brown. 

Or fry in deep, hot fat after preparing as 
above. 



FISH 177 

— i^»^ ■ ■ ■ .I* .1 ■ .1 ■■ , ■ ■ ... 

Old Virslnia Fried Oysters 

Make a batter of 4 tablespoonfuls of sifted 
jQour, 1 tablespoonful of olive oil or melted but- 
ter, 2 well-beaten whites of eggs, % teaspoonful 
salt, and warm water enongh to make a batter 
that will drop easily. Sprinkle the oysters 
lightly with salt and white pepper or paprika. 
Dip in the batter, and fry to a golden brown. 
Drain, and serve on a hot platter with a napkin 
under them, and pass slices of lemon with them. 

Oysters and Mushrooms 

A solid pint or 1 dozen medium-sized oysters ; 
1 cup mushrooms cut in rather small pieces ; 2 
tablespoonfuls butter ; a little salt, pepper, and 
a dash of nutmeg ; half a. glassful port wine or 
madeira. 

Saute the mushrooms in the butter. Boil 
and skim the liquor from the oysters, put in 
the oysters with the salt, pepper, and nutmeg, 
and cook until they are nearly done. Add the 
sauted mushrooms and cook for a few minutes 
longer, then add the wine ; let all get thoroughly 
hot, and serve at once. The wine may be 
omitted and a tablespoonful of lemon juice 
added. 

For a variety these may be served in cups of 
rolls or pastry. Take rolls that are baked in 
round or long oval shape, cut off the bottom 



ITS SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

crust, scoop out the inside, brush the sides with 
butter, and crisp them in the oven. Fill these 
with the oysters and mushrooms. Serve on a 
hot platter with the sauce poured over them. 
Two tablespoonfuls of hot cream may be added 
to the sauce, instead of wine. 

Or make shells of good pastry, baked in little 
patty-pans. These may be made the day be- 
forehand and put in the oven for a few minutes 
to get hot, while the oysters are being prepared. 
A good lunch dish. 

Scalloped Oysters 

1 pint solid oysters ; 1 large cupful bread or 
cracker crumbs ; Vs ^^'^P butter ; 1 cup milk ; salt 
and pepper. 

Drain and carefully pick over the oysters to 
free them from any bits of shell. Mix the 
crumbs with the melted butter. (Bread crumbs 
are preferable to cracker, being less solid when 
baked.) Scald and skim the oyster liquor, and 
add the hot milk. 

Into a well-buttered baking-dish put a thin 
layer of the buttered crumbs, next a layer of 
oysters; season with salt and pepper, cover 
with a layer of crumbs, and pour over some of 
the hot oyster liquor and milk. Put in another 
layer of oysters and seasoning, then cover with 
the remaining crumbs, having the top layer of 



FISH 179 

cmmbs rather thicker than the other. Add the 
rest of the hot liquor, dot the top with bits of 
butter, and bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. 
A very little Worcestershire sauce or lemon 
juice may be added to the seasoning if liked. 

Oysters "Roast" In Their Own Liquor 

Put the oysters in a saucepan and bring to a 
quick boil. As soon as they get plump they are 
cooked enough for most connoisseurs, but some 
like them cooked until the gills are well curled 
or crimped. As soon as done season with salt, 
pepper, butter, and a squeeze of lemon juice. 
This is a '* plain roast.'* Served on buttered 
toast, with the liquor poured over, it is a 
** fancy roast.*' 

Clam Fritters 

Beat 2 eggs light, sift in % cupful of flour, 
add 1/^ cupful of milk; thus forming a batter. 
Chop up 12 good-sized clams in chopping-bowl. 
Add 1 teaspoonful minced parsley, % tea- 
spoonful salt, a dash of pepper ; add to the bat- 
ter. If not of suflScient consistency to drop into 
boiling fat, add a little more flour. Fry crisp, 
either in deep fat, or saute in frying-pan. 
Drain, and serve. 

Baked Soft Clams 

Place 1 dozen large soft clams in baking- 
pan, so that the juices will be retained in the 



laO SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

lower shell. Bake untU clam opens, remove 

the upper shell carefully, and place on each 

clam a slice of crisp bacon. Serve in lower 

shell. 

Jumbolaya 

East Indian Recipe 

Fry ham, as for gumbo, with garlic, onion, 
and pepper; add 3 cupfuls of tomatoes as be- 
fore, and strain. Have 1 cupful of rice, pre- 
viously soaked in warm water. Put the rice 
into the hot tomato, and add herbs to taste. 
Keep the pot covered, and boil slowly until the 
rice is well cooked. When the rice is ready to 
serve, oysters may be lightly pressed into the 
rice. Put into a baking-dish, and set into the 
oven until the oysters curl. Clams or shrimps 
may be used instead of oysters. 

Pies in Blankets 

Season the desired number of large oysters 
with salt and pepper. Wrap each in a slice of 
best bacon and fasten with wooden toothpicks. 
Fry until bacon is crisp. Serve on toast gar- 
nished with parsley. 

Snails, Edible 

The edible snail of the south of Europe is 
said to have been introduced into England from 
the Continent in the seventeenth century. This, 



HSH 181 

however, is very doubtful. It has a shell about 
two inches in diameter, and two inches in 
height, whitish or pale tawny, with four dark 
bands, often not very distinct. By the ancient 
Bomans it was much esteemed as an article of 
food. They fattened their snails in enclosures 
made for the purpose, and fed them daintily 
on meal and boiled wine. It is still in much 
esteem for the table in parts of Europe, and 
may be had during several weeks of the year 
in the United States, being imported, as the 
season is short. During this time they may 
be had at leading hotels, but for only a week 
or two. The common garden snail would prob- 
ably be as good eating, though not so large, and 
if cultivated as in Europe. 

(No. 2) 

Take fine Bourgogne snails; disgorge them 
well by salt for two or three days, wash several 
times in cold water, strain, and put them to 
stew, covering with water; add a bouquet, 
cloves and whole pepper tied in a cloth, and 
enough salt; cook them until they fall from 
their shells, and empty, and clip the tails ; next 
clean shells thoroughly. Mix butter, shallots, 
parsley, and chervil together, chopping very 
fine ; put it in bowl with equal quantity of fresh 
bread crumbs, and a small glass of white wine. 



182 SOUPS^ CHOWDERS^ AND FISH 

Season this with salt and pepper, and knead 
thoroughly. Put a little of this mixture into 
each shell, put back the snails, and place an- 
other layer of the mixture on top. Put into the 
oven until brown, not over four minutesi and 
serve on folded napkin. 



SAUCES FOR FISH AND MEATS 

The making of perfect sauces and serving 
ihem with the proper fish, game, meat, or des- 
sert is one of the fine arts. A dish may be well, 
even perfectly, cooked, and if not spoiled, at 
least be very much depreciated by the lack of 
a well-seasoned and perfectly blended sauce,- 
while an otherwise flat or flavorless article of 
food may be made ** fit for the gods '* by the 
addition of a sauce that is a delight to the 
palate. 

Brown sauces have for a basis brown stock 
and browned butter and flour, and may be col- 
ored to just the desired shade by the addition 
of caramel or roux. 

White sauces are made with white stock, or a* 
cream sauce, or with plain drawn butter, with 
the addition of whatever ingredients are ap- 
propriate to the food with which the sauce is 
to be served. 

So many of the sauces need to be kept hot, 
but not boiling, while some of the ingredients 
are prepared to be added last, that it is a good 
plan to keep one of the small-sized double 
boilers for this purpose. 

S83 



iU SOfUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

SAUCES FOR FISH 

Court-Bouillon (for Boilins Fish) 

In cooking some of the coarser kinds of fish, 
or those that are not especially delicate in 
flavor, they are improved by boiling in what the 
French call a *' court-bouillon, '* made with 
highly flavored vegetables and sweet herbs, 
combined with lemon juice or wine, and highly 
spiced. 

Fish cooked in this preparation is deliciously 
flavored. Wine is not necessary, and is only 
used where there is an abundance for cooking 
purposes. 

Place in the bottom of the fish-kettle a thick 
layer of sliced carrots and onions, with a sliced 
lemon, parsley, thyme, a bay leaf, a few whole 
peppers, and 3 or 4 whole cloves. 

Lay the fish on the top of this and cover with 
one-half cold water and one-half white wine, or 
lemon juice or vinegar. 

Put the kettle over the fire and let it heat 
rather slowly. As soon as it boils, the fish 
should be sufficiently cooked. 

Court-bouillon may be prepared the day be- 
forehand, as the fish must always be put into 
it while cold. If brought to a boil and allowed 
to cool, the flavor of the herbs will be stronger 
than if made fresh. It may also be set aside 



SAUCES IS5 

and kept for use again, but it must be reheated 
every few days. 

Tartare Sauce for Broiled Fish (Mrs. Lincoln) 
1 tablespoonf ul vinegar ; 1 teaspoonf ul lemon 
juice ; 1 saltspoonf ul salt ; Vg cupful butter ; 1 
tablespoonful Worcestershire sauce. 

Mix vinegar, lemon juice, salt, and Worces- 
tershire sauce in a small bowl, and heat over 
hot water. Brown the butter in an omelet pan, 
and strain into the other mixture. To be served 
hot. 

Tomato Sauce 

^ cupful tomato pulp, strained smooth; ^ 
cupful finely chopped capers, gherkins, olives, 
and onion; 1 teaspoonf ul made mustard; 1 
tablespoonful vinegar; 1 teaspoonf ul sugar; 
salt to taste ; a dash of cayenne. 

Mix all together, bring to boiling point, stir- 
ring briskly while it is heating, and serve very 
hot ; poured over or around the fish. 

Lobster Sauce 

Make a Hollandaise as for meat and a cupful 
of finely chopped lobster meat, rub the coral to ' 
a paste with a tablespoonful of melted butter, a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice, one or two drops 
of Tabasco sauce, and a half teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce. Mix thoroughly with 
the Hollandaise while hot. 



tu SOUPS, chowders; and fish 

Hollandaise Sauce 

Make a brown HoUandaise sauce, the same as 
for meat or vegetables; add chopped onion or 
a few drops of onion juice, chopped parsley, 
olives, gherkins, or hot mixed pickles to taste. 

Piquant Sauce 

1 cupful good clear stock; % tablespoonful 
minced onion or shallots ; 2 tablespoonf uls but- 
ter; 1 tablespoonful flour; % teaspoonful 
sugar; i/^ teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce; 

1 tablespoonful chopped capers; 1 tablespoon- 
ful cucumber pickles, chopped or sliced thin; 

2 tablespoonf uls tarragon or wine vinegar; a 
dash of cayenne ; % teaspoonful salt. 

Heat the butter in a pan and add the flour. 
Stir until very smooth, and let it oook until 
brown. Gradually add the stock, salt and pep- 
per, and let it come to a boil, and sunmer ten 
minutes. 

Put the vinegar, onion, and sugar in a pan 
over a hot fire, and simmer five minutes. Add 
this and pickles, capers, and Worcestershire 
sauce to the hot stock; then let it boil up, and 
serve it very hot with either fish, meat, or 
game. 

This is one of the sauces that may have ex- 
tract of beef substituted for the stock, as it 
should be clear. Use the extract in the pro- 



SAUCES 187 

portion of y^ teaspoonfnl of extract dissolved 
in 1 cupful boiling water. 

Serve with fried or broiled fish, or roast or 
boiled meats. 

A Simple Sauce for Steamed or Boiled Fish 

To 3 tablespoonfuls of melted butter add 3 

hard-boiled eggs, chopped. Season with a 

tablespoonful of very finely minced parsley, 

half a teaspoonfnl of salt, and a little pepper. 

Have it very hot and well mixed, and pour over 

the fish. 

India Sauce 

1 cupful white sauce; 1 tablespoonful curry 
powder; 2 tablespoonfuls finely chopped 
pickles; 1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar or 
the vinegar from the pickles. 

Let all simmer together for five minutes or 
until thoroughly heated and blended. 

Sauce Allemande 

1 pint white stock ; 6 mushrooms ; yolks of 3 
eggs; juice of % a lemon, and a little strip of 
the rind; 1 saltspoonful salt; 1 teaspoonfnl 
flour ; 1 teaspoonfnl minced parsley ; 1 spoonf id 
butter. 

Put the stock into a saucepan with the mush- 
rooms cut small, and the salt, lemon-peel, and 
parsley. Let it come to a boil and simmer 
slowly for an hour. Thicken with the flour, 



188 SOUPS, CHOWDERS» AND FISH 

boil a few minutes, and strain. Add the well- 
beaten yolks of the eggs, put it back on the fire, 
and stir constantly until very hot. It must not 
boil again after the eggs are added, or it will 
be spoiled. Take from the fire and add the but- 
ter and lemon juice, stirring until well blended. 
Serve with either fish, meat, or vegetables. 

Sauce Supreme 

1 cupful white stock (made with chicken and 
veal) ; 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
cress, and tarragon leaves, equal parts ; 1 table- 
spoonful of lemon juice; white roux sufficient 
to thicken. 

Put the stock in a saucepan and add the roux, 
stirring until it is thick. Put the herbs into 
boiling water, let them stand two or three min- 
utes, drain on a towel, and mince them fine. 
Stir them into the stock ; add a little white pep- 
per and salt if needed. When very hot and 
ready to serve, add the strained lemon juice. 
Pour over fish or meat. 

Lobster Sauce 

% cupful finely minced lobster meat and the 
coral; 1 cupful drawn butter sauce; % tables 
spoonful butter ; juice of half a lemon ; a dash 
of paprika. 

Eub the coral of the lobster to a paste with 
the butter, add the minced lobster, lemon juice, 



SAUCES f89 

and paprika. Mix with the hot drawn butter 
sance. Let it boil np, and serve with the fish. 

Sardine Sauce 

Mash smooth 5 large sardines that have been 
skinned and boned, and add to 1^^ cupfuls of 
mayonnaise; serve with cold fish. 

Tomato Tartare 

To 1^ cupfnls tartare sauce add 3 table- 
spoonfuls of tomato catsup, or cooked tomato 
pulp. Serve cold. 

Shrimp 

Take 1 pint white sauce and add to it 1 cupful 
of chopped shrimp, 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, 
a dash of paprika, and a drop or two of Ta- 
basco. 

Cream 

To ^ cupful of mayonnaise add 1 tablespoon- 
ful vinegar and 1 teaspoonful English mustard, 
2 tablespoonfuls fresh grated horseradish, a 
pinch of salt, and a dash of cayenne. Add to 
this, stirring continuously, 1 cupful whipped 
cream. Serve very cold with cold fish. 

Pepper 

Chop 2 sweet green peppers, removing the 
seeds ; mix together l^ cupful each of vinegar 
and sugar, 1 teaspoonful celery seed, and V^ 



190 SOUPS, CHQin>ERS> AND FBH 

teaspoonful salt; pour over minoed peppers, 
and serve. 

Dresaine for Baked Fish 

1 cupful bread crumbs ; l^ cupful melted but- 
ter; 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley, capers, 
pickles, and olives; % teaspoonful minced 
onion; 1 teaspoonful lemon juice or vinegar; 
salt and pepper and Worcestershire may be 
added if so desired. 

EfiTs: Sauce 

To white sauce add 1 hard-boiled eggy 
chopped fine, and 1 raw egg^ beaten light ; salt 
and pepper to taste. Capers are sometimes 
added. 

Shad-Roe Sauce 

Cook 1 shad-roe in salted water, to which a 
teaspoonful of vinegar has been added, for 
twenty minutes. Then cool ; crumb up and add 
to brown sauce (see Brown Sauce) with 1 tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice. 

Cheese Sauce 

Place in a saucepan the following ingredi- 
ents, stirring continuously: 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of butter and 2 of corn starch. After 
stirring this together over the fire, add 1 cup 
of grated cheese, % teaspoonful mustard, % 
teaspoonful paprika, a dash of red pepper, 14 



SAUCES tn 

teaspoonful of salt, and % teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce. Cook thoroughly, draw 
to one side ; stir in IV2 cupfuls of milk that have 
been heated. Then add 1 lightly beaten egg. 
The sauce must not be allowed to boil after the 
addition of the milk and egg. Serve very hot. 

Cucumber Sauce 

Cucumber, a plant that seems to be most 
adaptable to fish, can be treated as follows: 
Mince 1 cucumber, add to it 1 tablespoonful of 
vinegar and a pinch of salt. Stir this into Hol- 
iandaise sauce (see Hollandaise Sauce), and 
serve. 



SAUCES FOR MEAT 

Drawn Butter 

2 tablespoonf uls of flour ; 3 tablespoonf uls of 
cold butter; 1 cupful of water; seasoning. 

Take Vs of the butter and melt it in a sauce- 
pan over the fire. As soon as it is melted, add 
the flour and stir until it bubbles. Care must 
be taken that it does not brown. The water is 
then gradually stirred in until the sauce boils. 
Add pepper and salt to taste. Eemove from 
the fire, and stir in the rest of the butter, which 
has been broken into small pieces. If neces- 
sary, strain. Serve while very hot. 



192 SOUPS» CHOWDERSr AND FISSl 

J - ■ ■ ^. ■ ■ - — ■ — 

Drawn Butter 

1 pint hot water ; Va cupful butter ; 2 table- 
spoonfuls flour; 1/^ teaspoonful salt; ^ salt- 
spoonful white pepper. 

Vinaigrette Sauce 

To % cupful of plain or tarragon vinegar add 
1^ teaspoonful of salt, i/i teaspoonful paprika, a 
dash of cayenne and of white pepper. 

Mince 1 tablespoonful each of pickles, chives, 
parsley, green pepper; stir into the vinegar, 
then add slowly % cupful of olive oil. 

Velout6 

To 1 cupful of white stock add l^ cupful of 
cream, and heat. 

Cook 3 tablespoonfuls of flour in 3 table- 
spoonfuls of butter; add the stock slowly, 
season with 14 teaspoonful salt, a little grated 
nutmeg, a dash of cayenne, a sprig of parsley — 
if mushrooms are on hand, add a few, to give 
flavor. Simmer one hour, strain, and serve. 

Velout^ with Claret 

Make as for veloute sauce, only substituting 
claret instead of cream, and the lightly beaten 
yolks of 2 eggs to make the sauce creamy. 

Horseradish Sauce (Hot) 

To 1 cupful of brown sauce add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of grated horseradish that has stood for 



SAUCES )93 

an hour in 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 1 tea- 
spoonful of powdered sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls 
of cracker flour or fine bread crumbs, 1 tea- 
spoonful of made mustard, 1 teaspoonful of 
salt, and a half saltspoonful of pepper. Mix 
and heat in a double boiler. Just before serving 
beat in half a cup of whipped or plain cream. 
Double the amount of horseradish if a very 
sharp sauce is wanted. Serve with beef. 

White Sauce 

1 cupful white stock; % cupful cream; 2 
tablespoonfuls butter; 2 tablespoonfuls flour; 
% saltspoonful salt ; a dash of white pepper. 

Cook the flour and butter together until very 
smooth and bubbling, but taking care that it 
does not become colored. Have the stock and 
cream hot, and add it, a little at a time, to the 
butter and flour. Beat until smooth, and let it 
come to a boil. Strain, and serve. 

Brown Sauce 

1 cupful stock; salt and pepper; 2 table- 
spoonfuls butter; 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 
. Cook the flour and butter together until 
brown, stirring briskly; then add the stock, a 
spoonful at a time, stirring or beating con- 
stantly to prevent its lumping. As soon as it 
has boiled strain, and serve with meat or vege- 
tables. Used as a basis, with the addition of 



m SOUPS, CHOVDERS, AND FBH 

some ingredients from which the sance takes its 
name, this may be the principal part of several 
meat or fish sauces. If not dark enough, add 
a little dark roux until it is the desired color. 

Anchovy Sauce 

1 cup broth or stock; 4 anchovies; 1 table- 
spoonful butter; 1 teaspoonful capers. 

Wash and dry the anchovies, remove the 
bones, and cut up fine. Dredge them lightly 
with flour, and fry them five minutes in the but 
ter without browning. Add the broth or stock, 
let it simmer fifteen minutes; then add the 
crushed capers, and more salt and pepper, if 
needed. Serve very hot with roast or boiled 
beef. 

Sauce Piquante for Roast Beef 

To a cup of brown sauce add a teaspoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce, a tablespoonful of 
chopped mustard pickles, and a tablespoonful 
of chopped capers. Serve hot. 

Orange Sauce (Game) 

Boil 1 orange peel cut into strips in 1 cupful 
of water untirtender, add the juice of 2 oranges. 
Cook together 2 tablespoonfuls of butter and 
3 of flour. Add gradually % cupful of white 
stock seasoned with % tablespoonful of made 
mustard, i/4 tablespoonful salt, a dash of 



SAUCES I9S 

cayenne^ Vs cupful of red wine, and 4 table* 

spoonfuls of currant jelly. Boil thoroughly 

and add the oranges and the liquids ; strain, and 

serve. 

Bechamel Sauce 

For a simple bechamel use % strong white 

stock and % thick sweet cream. Season with 

salt and white pepper and a very little nutmeg 

or mace. Serve with vegetables. 

Madeira Sauce 

To 1 cupful of brown sauce add 1 tablespoon- 
f ul each of minced ham and celery ; season with 
1/4 teaspoonful each of kitchen bouquet and 
paprika. Simmer for half an hour, then add 
^ cupful madeira wine. 

Mustard 

Brown 1 tablespoonful of butter, add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour, stir smooth ; then add 1 cup 
of beef stock. Let simmer. 

To 1 tablespoonful of French or celery mus- 
tard add 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, 1 of sugar, 
and 1 of made mustard, i/4 teaspoonful of salt, 
% teaspoonful of paprika. Now add the above 
into the stock, and stir until smooth. 

Maltre d'H6tel Butter 

1 heaping tablespoonful of butter; 1 table- 
spoonful chopped parsley; 1 tablespoonful 



t% soups; GHOWDER3r AND FISH 

lemon juice; % teaspoon salt; % saltspoon 
pepper. 

Bub the butter to a cream, add the lemon 
juice, parsley, salt, and pepper; stirring con- 
stantly until smooth. Serve with broiled fish 
or beefsteak, spread over the top. 

Mint Sauce for Youna: Lamb 

Take a few sprigs of fresh mint, wash well, 
and chop fine. A good way to chop mint and 
parsley fine is to keep a pair of good-sized scis- 
sors for the purpose. It is easier and quicker 
than chopping. By gathering the leaves closely 
with one hand it is easy to clip the leaves in 
bits. Put the mint in the sauce-boat, add 4 
tablespoonfuls of wine vinegar, 1 of sugar, and 
4 tablespoonfuls of cold water. It should be 
made an hour or two before serving. 

[Chestnut Sauce for Turkey or Chicken 

Mash 1 cupful of boiled chestnuts and stir 
into 1% cupfuls of hot white stock ; season with 
1 teaspoonful of catsup, % teaspoonful salt, ^ 
teaspoonful paprika, 1 tablespoonful butter. 
Cook until smooth and of the proper consist- 
ency. 

Espaenole Sauce 

Heat 2 cups veal stock into which have been 
put % bay leaf, a blade of mace, and a couple 
of cloves. Cook together 2 tablespoonfuls of 



SAUCES 197 

butter and 3 of flour ; then stir in heated stock. 
Mince 1 tablespoonful each of ham, onion, cel- 
ery, carrot, parsley ; season with % teaspoonf ul 
salt, and ^ teaspoonf ul paprika; then add to 
the stock and simmer gently for one hour; 
strain, and serve very hot. 

Chive Sauce 

To 1 cupful brown sauce add 2 tablespoonf uls 
of minced chives. 

Mushroom Sauce 

To 1 cupful of brown sauce add ^ cupful 
mushrooms, either canned or fresh, cut into 
small pieces. Boll the mushrooms in butter and 
saute in butter. Mix them with the sauce, bring 
to a boil, and add a tablespoonful of lemon juice 
or half a wineglass of sherry or port wine. 
Serve with roast beef or steak. 

Currant Jelly Sauce 

To 1 cupful of clear brown sauce add ^ cup- 
ful of currant jelly. Melt the jelly before add- 
ing it to the sauce, then heat until thoroughly 
blended. Serve hot with mutton. 

Olive Sauce 

■ 

To 1 pint of brown sauce add a teaspoonful 
of minced onions and 12 large olives chopped 
and cooked in ^ cup of water; boil up, add a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice, and serve hot. 



196 SOUPS, CHOWDERS, AND FISH 

Champasne Sauce for Ham 

To % cupful brown sauce add 1 cupful of 
American champagne or white wine, a tea- 
spoonful sugar, 8 cloves. Bring to a boil, and 
strain. 

Chicken Sauce for Sweetbread 

Cut into dish 1 cupful of chicken. Season 
with 1/4 teaspoonful salt and a dash of cayenne, 

1 teaspoonful parsley. Place in a saucepan 1 
tablespoonful of butter and 1 of flour; stir to- 
gether and cook thoroughly. Add the lightly 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs to 1 cupful of cream, and 
stir into the cooked flour a little at a time, stir- 
ring continuously. When smooth, add the first 
mixture of chicken, etc. 

Tomato Sauce 

% dozen large ripe tomatoes ; % cupful meat 
gravy or good stock ; 1 blade mace ; 2 shallots ; 

2 cloves; % teaspoonful salt; ^ teaspoonfid 
paprika. 

Cut the tomatoes in halves and scoop out the 
seeds. Put them in a saucepan with the gravy 
or stock ; add the seasoning, and stew slowly for 
half an hour or longer. Press through a sieve 
and return the pulp to the saucepan; bring to 
a boil, ani serve very hot with cutlets or roast 
meat. 

ili objectionable, the mace, cloves, or shallots 



SAUCES 199 

may be omitted, or a small minced onion may 
be stewed with the tomatoes in place of any 
shallots. Some prefer the flour of the tomatoes 
or other seasoning than is given by the gravy, 
salt, and pepper. 

When done, the sauce should be of the con- 
sistency of thick cream. Should it be too thin, 
boil it down quickly; if too thick, add a little 
more gravy or stock. 

Oyster Sauce 

Make a rich cream or white sauce with the 
strained and skimmed oyster liquor and half a 
cup of milk or cream. 

Simmer the oysters in just water enough to 
cover until they curl, but do not allow them to 
toughen. Chop or cut them fine and add to the 
sauce with a dash of white pepper or paprika, 
and a little lemon juice. Let all get very hot 
and serve at once with roast turkey or fish. 

Port Wine Sauce 

% cupful rich brown stock or brown sauce; 
% cupful port wine ; % cupful currant jelly ; 1 
teaspoonful lemon juice; salt; a dash of 
cayenne ; 2 or 3 cloves and whole allspice each ; 
a small stick of cinnamon ; a blade of mace. 

Heat the stock with the spices long enough 
to extract their flavor; add the melted currant 
jelly, wine, and salt and pepper. When all are 



aOO SOUFS^ CHOWDEE^ AND FISH 

thoroughly hot and well blended, skim out the 
spioes and serve with venison or game. 

Onion Sauce (Called also Soubise Sauce) 

Cook together until smooth 2 tablespoonfuls 
of butter and 2 of flour. Stir in slowly 1 cupful 
of hot stock. Add 2 or 3 onions that have been 
sliced and cooked in salted water for fifteen 
minutes. Season with salt and cayenne, and 
add last ^ cup of hot cream. 

Parsley Butter 

Bub 3 tablespoonfuls of butter to a cream. 
Beat in slowly half a tablespoonful of strained 
lemon juice and a tablespoonful of finely minced 
parsley ; season with white pepper. Beat imtil 
creamy, and put on ice and serve with meats. 
Or double the amount of lemon juice, and servo 
hot with boiled or broiled fish. 

Bernaise Sauce 

Place on one side of the stove in a saucepan 
2 tablespoonfuls of tarragon or common vin- 
egar and 2 of water, and a slice of onion. 
While this is heating, cream 4 tablespoonfuls 
of butter and beat very light the yolks of 3 
6ggs, to which add i^ teaspoonful of salt and 
paprika. Eemove the onion from the heated 
vinegar and beat in rapidly the beaten yolks. 
Stir until of a creamy consistency; then add a 



SAUCES 291 

spoonful at a time of the butter, beating all the 
time, so as to have the sauce very light. 

Bread Sauce 

Heat 1 cupful of milk, 1 tablespoonf ul of but- 
ter, and season with salt, pepper, and onion 
juice. Dry in the oven Vs cup of bread crumbs, 
taking care to toss them about so as to evenly 
dry and keep separate. Do not brown. Bring 
the milk to a boil, and stir in the bread crumbs. 
To be served with game or fowl. 

Caper Sauce for Mutton 

Boil together 1^ cups water, 1 tablespoonful 
butter, 4 tablespoonfuls capers, and 1 teaspoon- 
ful vinegar. In separate saucepan place 1 
tablespoonful each of butter and flour, a pinch 
of salt, and a dash of cayenne. Cook thor- 
oughly, and when boiling stir in a little time 
from the first saucepan. 

Roux for Thickening Sauces (Dark) 

1 ounce butter ; 1^ ounces dried flour ; 2 cups 
stock. 

Put the butter in a saucepan and melt slowly ; 
then add the flour, stirring with a wooden spoon 
until it is a light brown in color ; it will require 
about ten minutes. Take it from the fire and 
let it cool for two or three minutes and stir in 
the stock. Betum to the fire and stir until it 



202 SOUP& CHOWDEBSf AND FISH 

boils, and let it simmer until it is sufficiently 
thick. It should be stirred until very smooth. 

For white roux use white stock and remove 
the butter and flour from the fire as soon as 
perfectly blended, and before it has become 
colored. 



aar 

31: 



DRESSINGS 

Bread Dressing for Game 

To % a cupful of fine bread crumbs add 2 
tablespoonf uls of melted butter ; season with l^ 
teaspoonful salt, a dash of cayenne and of 
paprika. 

Place in a double boiler a cupful of milk, a 
couple of slices of onion, a blade of mace, and 
% bay leaf; bring to a boil, strain, and return 
to saucepan. Now mix in the bread crumbs. 
This is served with small game, either as a 
side-dish or as a garniture. 

Chestnut Dressins: 

To % cupful of bread crumbs add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter and 1 tablespoonful 
cream. Season with salt, a dash of cayenne, a 
little grated nutmeg, 2 tablespoonfuls hot 
water; mix well together. Mash 1 cupful of 
boiled chestnuts and mix with the other in- 
gredients. Use for stuffing turkey and chicken. 

Potato Dresslns: for Duck 

Beat light 2 cupf uls mashed potatoes ; add yi 
cup of cream, 1 tablespoonful butter. Season 

203 



204 SOUPS, CHOVDERS^ AND FISH 

with ^ teaspoonful each of salt, paprika, onion 
jnice, chopped parsley, a teaspoonful kitchen 
bouquet. Then stir in the well-beaten yolks of 
2 9ggs ; y^ cupful of chopped nut-meats may be 
added to the dressing. 



MEATS 

To Broil a Steak 

SmLOiN and porterhouse are the choicest cuts, 
bnt the top round is juicy and often very ten- 
der. A steak should be cut from one inch to 
one and a half or two inches in thickness, ac* 
cording to fancy or taste. If there is reason to 
suppose that the steak is tough, it may be 
pounded for two minutes with a meat hammer. 

Wipe clean, trim off the long ends ; they are 
rarely tender enough to serve as steak, and are 
best put aside for stewing, for force-meat balls, 
a breakfast hash, etc., or for soup. Trim oflf 
the outer skin and any ends of superfluous fat, 
and with a sharp knife take out the bone very 
clean. Some prefer to have the bone of a sir- 
loin left in, but it is much easier to cook and 
carve without it, and since the bone scorches 
easily over the hot blaze, it is better for the 
soup if not «ooked, besides being easier to cut 
clean of the meat, which is most tender and 
juicy near the bone. 

Eub the gridiron or broiler with a piece of 
the fat, and broil over clear, hot coals, turning 
it every ten seconds to sear both sides as quickly 

205 



2K BSBATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

as possible and prevent the loss of the juices. 
Four or five minutes will be sufficient to cook a 
steak of medium thickness, if liked rare ; double 
that time, if to be well done. 

Have a hot platter in readiness, and as soon 
as done sufficiently place the steak on the dish, 
cover generously with butter, shake over it salt 
and pepper, stand it for two minutes in the hot 
oven, and serve. 

Pan-Broiled Steak 

While broiling over coals is supposed to be, 
par excellence, the method for cooking a steak, 
very nearly the same result may be obtained 
by broiling in a hot frying-pan or on a grid- 
iron, but the pan must be heated to a blue heat 
before putting in the steak. 

Lay the steak in the pan without butter or 
grease of any kind. Let it sear just long 
enough to prevent the escape of juice, then turn 
at once and sear the other side. Keep turning 
it often. The outside being all quickly seared, 
there will be very little chance for the loss of 
the juices, and if the pan is as hot as it should 
be, very little more time, if any, will be required 
than to cook over hot coals. Serve the same as 
before. 

Should there be sufficient juice in the pan 
for a little gravy, pour in 2 or 3 spoonfuls 



MEATS 207 

of boiling water ; stir it around to dissolve the 
coagulated juice, add a little salt, and pour 
around the steak. 

Ham burs Steak 

Take a thick slice from the top of the round. 
Have the butcher |)ut in with it a small piece of 
marrow. Pound the steak enough to loosen the 
small fibres, cut in convenient pieces for put- 
ting through the grinder, and remove any 
threads of tough fibre. These will sometimes 
collect in the teeth of the grinder, and may be 
easily removed with a fork. Put with the 
pieces of meat a small piece — ^what would 
amount to 2 teaspoonfuls — of the marrow and 
grind through with it, putting in at the last a 
small piece of stale bread or crust; this will 
clear all meat from the teeth of the chopper, 
and the smaU amount of crumbs will do no harm 
in the meat. 

Add to the chopped meat a few drops of onion 
juice or kitchen bouquet, and pepper, but do not 
salt it tmtil after it is cooked; it will be less 
tender and juicy if salted first. Toss it lightly 
with a silver fork to mix the seasoning in, and 
with the fork, or two forks, make it into cakes 
or flattened balls. This is easiest done on a 
shallow baking-dish (a granite pie-plate is good 
for the purpose). Do not pack the meat 



206 MEATS^ POULTRY, AND GAME 

closely, or make it into cakes with the hands, 
but pack it only closely enough with the fork 
to make the balls hold in shape. 

Have the pan very hot, as for broiling other 
steak, rub it with a piece of fat to prevent stick- 
ing and breaking the balls in turning. As soon 
as seared on the under side, turn with a spatula 
and cook the other side. They should be well 
browned on the outside and rare and juicy 
within. 

As soon as done lift with the spatula to a 
hot platter, make an incision with a knife in the 
centre of each ball, put a lump of butter in the 
place, sprinkle with salt, set in a hot oven for 
two minutes, and serve. 

Should there be any gravy in the pan, add 
2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of boiling water, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of tomato catsup, a little salt, and a 
dash of paprika ; stir briskly, and pour around 
the balls. 

Beefsteak with Mushrooms 

Before putting the steak on to broil, prepare 
the mushrooms. If canned, open and turn them 
out of the can; % a can will be sufficient for 
an ordinary-sized steak. Cut the mushrooms 
in two, and saute them in a tablespoonful of 
butter in a frying-pan. Add ^ cup of bouillon 
or clear stock and let them simmer for ten min- 



MEATS 209 

ntes. Not having the bouillon or stock at hand^ 
nse boiling water with half a teaspoonful of 
beef extract, well-seasoned with salt, paprika, 
and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

Broil the steak over a clear fire, dish it on a 
hot platter, pour the mushrooms and gravy 
around it, cover, and let it stand in a hot oven 
not over three minutes, and serve. 

Beefsteak and Onions 

A steak from the nmip or the top round will 
answer very well ; by laying it on the meat board 
and beating it for two minutes with a meat 
hammer or wooden potato masher, it will be 
made more tender. Have the cut from I14 to 
V/2 inches in thickness. Put in a frying-pan 2 
tablespoonf uls of butter, and when it is hot, not 
brown, lay in the steak and cook ten minutes, 
not too fast or it will bum the butter and meat. 
Turn and cook on the other side the same length 
of time, taking care in turning that the meat 
is not pricked, as the juices must be kept in as 
much as possible. After it has been turned it 
may be sprinkled with salt and pepper; there 
is then little danger of the salt extracting the 
juice. 

Before cooking the steak prepare 1 pint of 
medium-sized onions; boil them rapidly for 
twenty minutes in slightly salted water. Drain 



2)0 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

them well, and slice in thin, even slices. Dish 

the steak on a hot platter and set it in the oven 

to keep hot. Put the sliced onions in the f ry^ 

ing-pan and fry in the hutter and meat juice 

nntil a golden brown; season with pepper and 

a little salty and add 2 teaspoonfuls of wine 

or tarragon vinegar. Stir gently, keeping the 

onion slices as whole as possible. Ponr this 

around the hot steak, and sprinkle finely minced 

parsley over all. 

A good effect, both for the palate and the 

eye, is obtained by the addition of a half dozen 

freshly cooked, small young beets. Slice or 

dice thin, and add to the onion sauce just before 

serving it, letting them remain long enough to 

get hot, but not long enough to lose their bright 

color. 

Roast Beef 

In the days of open fires for cooking pur- 
poses, the roasting of a large joint of meat 
meant frequent turning on the spit to allow all 
the outside to come in contact with the intense 
heat. The nearest approach to this method of 
roasting, since the advent of improved coal and 
gas ranges, is to put the meat into an oven hot 
enough to quickly cook the outside, and so con- 
fine the juices while the cooking process is com- 
pleted, which must also be done quickly, leaving 
the inside juicy and rare. This rich juiciness 



MEATS 2n 

can better be obtained by using a roasting-rack 
or trivet than by simply baking with the meat 
resting on the bottom of the pan. If ^ however, 
the latter way is more convenient^ have only 
sufficient water in the pan to prevent burning, 
not enough to steam the meat. 

In roasting a sirloin of 6 or 8 pounds, cut off 
the greater part of the flank, it will make a 
stew or soup stock. Wipe the meat, or rinse 
quickly in cold water, and immediately wipe it 
dry. Trim off any superfluous pieces of fat, 
and, if necessary, skewer it. 

Lay it on the roasting-rack with the sldn side 
up, and dust first with flour, then with salt and 
pepper. Put a few pieces of fat or 2 spoonfuls 
of drippings in the bottom of the pan, and put 
it in the hot oven. When the outside has be* 
come well seared, baste with the drippings and 
dredge again with salted and peppered flour. 
A little of the flour will go into the pan ; when 
this has browned pour in a little boiling water, 
keeping just sufficient water in the pan to pre- 
vent the fat and flour from burning. 

If the oven does not roast evenly enough to 
cook all sides alike, turn the pan around or turn 
the meat over. 

Allow from ten to fifteen minutes to each 
pound of beef for cooking, in proportion to the 
degree of rareness liked. If cooked very rare, 



s 



)• 



MEATS 2)3 

more than ten minutes to the pound need be al- 
lowed for cooking, since there is no bone, and 
it is thin. Carve the same as a thick steak, in 
thin slices. 

Rib Roast 

It is more convenient to have your butcher 

remove the ribs and roll and tie the roast into 

a nice shape. This done, wipe it carefully, 

dredge as for sirloin, and roast in the same way. 

Stuffed or Farcied Roast Beef 

The round is good for this. Have a top 
round two or more inches in thickness. Trim 
off the skin, dust with salt and pepper. Make 
a stuffing as follows : 

1 cupful bread crumbs ; 1 egg ; salt and pei>- 
per; 1 tablespoonful finely chopped salt pork; 
1 tablespoonful melted butter; 1 teaspoonful 
mixed sweet herbs ; a few drops of onion juice 
or kitchen bouquet. 

Moisten the crumbs with hot water, add the 
sweet herbs and other seasoning, pork and but- 
ter, mix all together, and add the beaten egg 
last. Put this on the meat and roll it up in a 
compact, well-shaped piece. When well se- 
cured, cut slashes in the top, taking care not to 
cut through to the stuffing, lay strips of clear 
fat in the gashes, dredge with flour as for a 
roast, and cook in the same manner. 



214 MEATSr POULTRY, AND GAME 



If any of the stuffing is left over, put it in 
one comer of the pan, and use it in thickening 
the gravy, adding y^ cupful of tomato pulp or 2 
tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup. 

Serve garnished either with potato balls or 
mounds of mashed potatoes browned in a hot 
oven, with creamed onions as an accompani- 
ment. 

Yorkshire Puddlns (to be Eaten with 

Roast Beef) 

1 pint milk; 4 eggs; 1 scant cupful flour; ^ 
teaspoonful salt. 

Beat the ^ft^f^ yolks and whites separately. 
To the well-beaten yolks add the milk and salt, 
and gradually add the flour, beating until 
smooth ; then beat in the stiffly whipped whites 
of eggs. The pudding should be made when 
the meat is within twenty minutes of being 
done. Baise the meat a couple of inches from 
the bottom of the pan, if it is roasting without 
a rack. It can be held in position by running 
two long wire skewers into each side of the 
joint and letting the ends rest on the sides of 
the roasting-pan. Pour the batter under and 
around the roast, return at once to the oven, 
and bake twenty-five minutes. Or bake in a 
separate pan well-buttered^ and cut in squares 
to serve. 



MEATS 215 

Beef h la Mode 

Get a thick piece of beef of 4 or 5 pounds 
from the round or rmnp. Trim the edges into 
good shape, wipe, and pnt it into a deep earthen 
bowl or jar. Pour over it a cupful of vinegar, 
in which have been steeped 1 finely chopped 
onion, 2 tablespoonfuls salt, 1 saltspoonful pep* 
per, 1 teaspoonful each cloves, allspice, and 
mustard; a blade or two of mace and a bay 
leaf. 

Turn the meat around in this picMe, and 
leave in it for several hours, turning it over 
several times. Make several deep incisions 
and fill them with a dressing of bread crumbs 
seasoned plentifully with salt, pepper, finely 
minced onion, or a few drops of onion juice, 
kitchen bouquet, and sweet herbs. Mix with the 
beaten yolk of 1 egg a tablespoonful of butter 
or drippings, moistened sufficiently with hot 
water. Tie well with twine or strips of muslin, 
or skewer the incisions with wooden toothpicks 
to keep the stuffing in, and dredge it with flour. 

Mince or slice 2 onions, 1 small carrot, fry 
them in half beef drippings and half fat salt 
pork. When brown, put in the meat and brown 
it on all sides, and pour in enough boiling water 
to half cover the meat. Tie a tablespoonful of 
the mixed herbs and a small onion in a piece of 
cheesecloth and put in the pan with the meat; 



216 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

cover closely, and let it simmer three or four 
honrs. 

When tender take np on a hot platter, take 
off the strings. Skim the fat from the liquor, 
take out the bag of herbs, and make a thickened 
gravy ; boil, and strain the gravy over the meat. 

Beef Stew with DumpHnsrs 

Use the flank ends cut from roast or steak, 
chuck, or a shin piece. There should be some 
bone and fat with the lean, as these give a 
richer flavor and the meat is more juicy than 
a clear, solid piece of lean. Two or three 
pounds of meat will make a stow for six or 
eight people. 

Cut the meat in rather small pieces, and cut 
it from the bone ; brown them in hot drippings, 
turning the pieces so they will brown on all 
sides. 

Put the meat in a good-sized stewpan with the 
bones and any remnants of cold roast or steak. 
Put in with it 2 small onions, 1 small carrot, 
scraped and diced or sliced very thin, and, if 
liked, 1 small turnip, peeled and diced. Cover 
with boiling water and cook slowly two hours 
or longer. Take out all the bones and the 
pieces of fat ; skin the fat from the liquor, add 
salt, pepper, and a dash of paprika. 

Have 6 or 8 medium-sized potatoes paced and 



BilEATS 2S7 

soaked in cold water while the meat was cook- 
ing. Put these in and boil more rapidly than 
before. See that the water just comes to the 
top of the meat and potatoes. 

To make the dimiplings, take 2 cupfuls of 
sifted flour ; into one-half the flour rub a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, into the other half 
sift 3 level teaspoonf uls of baking-powder ; mix 
the two parts together, add a saltspoonful of 
salt, mix quickly with enough milk to make a 
rather soft dough, just stiff enough to hold in 
good shape when dropped from the spoon. 
Drop in balls from the spoon into the boiling 
stew, where they should rest on top of the po- 
tatoes, without sinking under the liquor. 

Cover quickly and closely and boil rapidly 
fifteen minutes without lifting the cover. The 
dumplings should be put in when the potatoes 
are half cooked, so that both will be done at the 
same time. The dumplings should be light and 
fluffy and as easy of digestion as any hot bread. 
To dish, carefully remove the dumplings to a 
hot plate, put the meat and potatoes in a deep 
hot platter with the dumplings around them, 
and set in a hot oven. Add to the gravy in 
the stewpan 2 spoonfuls of tomato catsup, a 
little minced parsley, more salt if needed, and 
if it requires thickening, add a little rice or 
potato flour moistened with water; let it boil 



218 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

up until thick and pour over the meat. If there 
is too much gravy to serve in the dish with the 
meat^ put the rest in a hot gravy tareeiL 

Beef Hash 

Cut the fat and every atom of gristle from 
cold roast or boiled beef and chop fine. Add a 
little less quantity of cold chopped potatoes. 
Season with salt and pepper, a little melted but- 
ter and milk or cream — ^preferably cream — 
sufficient to moisten it. Turn into a frying-pan 
and heaty stirring until it is hot; then let it 
brown on the bottomi or turn out without 
browning on a hot dish. 

Make corned-beef hash in the same way, care- 
fully trimming off the fat and any objection- 
able bits before chopping. When thoroughly 
heated, lift with a spoon from one side of the 
pan to the other, and add a spoonful of drip- 
pings ; spread the hash evenly over the pan and 
let it get well browned. Invert on a hot plat- 
ter and serve poached eggs on top, or garnish 
with a border of hard-boiled eggs sauted in 
crumbs. 

Rissoles of Beef 

Use either remnants of cold steak or roast 
beef. Trim off and discard all bits of gristle 
and leave very little, if any, of the fat meat« 
Chop very fine and with it chop a small slice 



SWEATS 21^ 

of fat salt porky or omit the pork and add later 
a tablespoonful of melted butter. To 1 pint of 
chopi>ed meat add the same quantity of fine 
bread cmmbs, moistened with milk or cream 
(if the pork is omitted, mix the butter with the 
crumbs). Season well with salt and pepper, a 
dash of cayenne, and % teaspoonful each of 
onion juice and kitchen bouquet. Add 1 beaten 
egg, mix well together, and if not moist enough 
add a little more milk or cream. 

Make into balls as large as a small hen's egg, 
flouring the hands and rolling the balls in a 
very little flour. Fry in a f rying-basket in deep 
hot fat; y2 lard and V^ clear beef drippings is 
best. When nicely browned, drain on a sheet 
of brown paper in a hot oven ; pile them in the 
centre of a platter, and serve with a border of 
ripe, firm tomatoes, peeled and cut rather 
thick, with a spoonful of mayonnaise in the 
centre of each slice, or with slices of boiled 
beets. Alternate either tomatoes or beets with 
sprigs of parsley. 

Veal, lamb, or mutton may be used in the 

same way. 

Rasoflt of Beef 

Put in a stewpan slices of cold roast or 

boiled beef. To each pound of meat add 3 

small onions, salt and pepper. Cover with 

boiling water and simmer two hours or more. 



220 BilEATSr POULTRY, AND GAME 

or until the meat is so tender as to fall readily 
to pieces. Add y^ cupful of tomatoes, V^ cupful 
of chopi>ed mushrooms, a few pickled walnuts 
or capers, and V^ teaspoonful of curry powder. 

Mix 1 tablespoonful of flour with water until 
smooth, add a little of the hot liquor and stir 
well ; pour into the hot ragoiit, and cook ten or 
fifteen minutes longer. 

Serve with mashed potatoes. 

Spiced Pressed Beef 

Take a shin bone and a pound or two of other 
good stewing piece, the lower round or rump 
will do. Have about 3 pounds of meat in all. 
Wash and wipe off the outside and trim away 
any poor pieces of fat or dried edges of the 
meat. Crack the bone as for soup. Cut in 
pieces that will pack closely in the kettle with 
the bone. Cover with cold water, and bring at 
once to a boil. Add salt and pepper, a finely 
chopped onion, and a tablespoonful of vinegar, 
and simmer slowly until the meat falls to 
pieces. The liquor should then be reduced to 
about one-half. 

Take out the meat and pick into rather small 
pieces with a fork. Strain the liquor, add % 
teaspoonful each of ground cloves, allspice, and 
mace, a little mustard and cayenne, and, if 
[, celery salt. Let this come to a boil and 



MEATS 22f 

retam the meat, stirring it well together with 
a fork. When it is thoroughly heated, turn ont 
into an oval dish or monld, cover with a plate 
to press the meat well down, and put it away to 
cool. There should be liquor enough to make 
it quite moist, and when cold the liquor should 
be a solid jelly. 

Cooked in this way it can be served cold in 
thin slices for lunch or Sunday supper, either 
with or without tomato sauce or mayonnaise 
dressing ; it is delicious in sandwiches, or it can 
be cut in half -inch slices, crumbed, and sauted 
in butter. 

For a change from sliced meat, mould it in 
custard cups or any small moulds. Keep them 
on the ice until just ready to serve ; dip the cups 
in hot water for a moment and turn the meat 
out on a platter, and garnish with sprigs of 
parsley alternated with crisp, white celery tops, 
with sprigs of parsley stuck between the 
moulds. 

Or for a piece de resistance for the Sunday 
evening supper, garnish with sauted hard- 
boiled egs. 

Meat and Potato Pie 

Cut any cold cooked meat into small pieces, 
there may be more than one kind. Carefully 
remove all gristle and any stringy fat ; put it in 



222 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

a deep baking-dish, the sides of which have been 
well battered and lined with mashed potatoes^ 
the thickness of an inch. Cover the meat with 
a well-seasoned brown gravy or stock to whidi 
has been added ^ cupfnl of stewed tomatoes, or 
3 tablespoonfnls of tomato catsup. If there is a 
little cold rice, add 2 or 3 tablespoonfnls. 

Add a well-beaten egg to the mashed potato, 
spread lightly over the top of the pie, leaving 
the surface rough; put bits of butter over the 
top and bake until well browned, which will take 
about twenty minutes. 

Pot Roast of Beef 

Gtet a 4- or 5-pound piece of rump or round 
of beef. If not a solid, well-shai>ed piece, 
skewer it closely, and fasten in between the 
skewered parts small pieces of clean fat or mar- 
row. Put 2 or 3 tablespoonfnls of beef drip- 
pings in the kettle, or fry out slices of the fat, 
and when very hot, put in the beef and brown 
it, turning it on all sides so that it will be well 
and evenly browned. Add a cupful of boiling 
water, 1 teaspoonful of salt, ^ teaspoonful of 
pepper, and 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. 

Cover the kettle closely and let it simmer 
three hours, adding water as often as necessary 
to keep it from burning, and keep about the 
same quantity in the kettle all the time. 



MEATS 223 

When done^ remove the meat to a hot platter, 
and make a brown gravy of the liquor by stir- 
ring in a tablespoonfnl of flour moistened and 
made smooth with a teaspoonful of Worcester 
or a tablespoonfnl of tomato catsup. Let it 
boil up, and serve in a gravy-boat. 

Meat cooked in this way can be reheated by 
putting in the kettle with just water enough to 
keep it from burning, covering closely, and giv- 
ing it plenty of time to heat through, taking 
care that it does not scorch ; or it is nice sliced 
thin and served cold for lundi or supper, with 
Worcestershire or sauce piquante. 

Breaded Beefs Liver 

See that the liver is a fresh one. Have the 
slices cut thin, and let them stand ten minutes 
in boiling water. Fry slices of bacon very 
crisp and remove them to a hot dish. Take a 
tablespoonfnl of the fat, shake in black i)ep- 
per, dip the slices of liver in this, then in bread 
crumbs mixed with finely minced parsley, and 
fry in the hot bacon fat until browned on both 
sides. When done, lay on a hot platter with 
the slices of bacon and sprigs of parsley as a 
border; add to the fat left in the pan a table- 
spoonful of vinegar and 2 tablespoonfuls of 
tomato catsup; stir well together and spread 
hot on top of the liver. 



224 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

Irish Stew 

Use the back ribs or neck of mntton, the 
fleshy part of which must be cut into cutlets. 
Flatten these pieces of meat with a roller, and 
dip them in a composition of pepper, salt, and 
flour. Peel potatoes and slice them to the ex- 
tent of 2 pounds of potatoes for every pound 
of meat. Melt a little suet or dripping in the 
soup pot, place a layer of potatoes in the bot- 
tom, dust well with pepper and salt, then add a 
layer of meat, sprinkled with chopped onions. 
Proceed until the dish is nearly full, fill up with 
gravy if you have it, if not, water will do ; finish 
off with a treble row of potatoes on top. Let 
it all stew slowly for about three hours, taking 
care to keep the lid so tight that none of the 
virtue could escape. Shake the pot occasion- 
ally with force, to prevent burning. It should 
be served as hot as possible. It is both a 
savory and inexpensive dish for cold weather. 

An Old-Fashioned Boiled Dinner 

Wash 6 pounds of corned beef and put into a 
kettle with plenty of water. Boil until tender, 
but not long enough to fall to pieces. It will 
take about four hours for it to boil. Cut 1 
small cabbage into quarters; scrape 4 carrots 
and 2 parsnips; pare 4 turnips and cut into 
halves; and peel 10 potatoes. An hour before 



BUEATS 225 

dinner skim the fat from the beef liquor, and 
turn part of it into another kettle. Into this 
kettle pour some boiling water and put in the 
carrots, turnips, and 4 beets. Cook the cab- 
bage in a separate vessel. Put the potatoes in 
the kettle with the meat about half an hour be- 
fore dinner. When all are cooked tender, dish 
the meat on a large platter and place around it 
the vegetables. A nice hash should be made 
with the remains of the boiled dinner. 

Creamed Dried Beef 

Shave 1 pound of beef very thin and put it 
into a stewpan with enough water to cover, to 
which ^ of a teaspoonf ul of soda has been added. 
Set the pan on the back part of the stove for 
thirty minutes, then turn off the water, add 1 
cupful of rich milk, and season with salt and 
pepper. Let it come to a boil, then add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter mixed with 2 of flour, and 
after it has boiled for a minute or two turn into 
a hot dish and serve at once. 

Dried Beef with Eggs 

Shave 1 pound of beef and put it into 
tepid water for half an hour, with a pmch 
of soda in the water to counteract the sour in 
the dried blood. Drain off the water and cut 
the meat into small bits. Betum to the pan 
with a tablespoonful of butter and a little pep- 



226 MEATS» POULTRY, AND GAME 

per, then add 8 well-beaten eggs, stir briskly 
for a moment, and send to the table in a corered 
dish. 

R6chauff£ of Beef h la Jardiniere 

Pnt yesterday's piece of meat in a roasting- 
pan, sprinkle with pepper and salt, cover with 
thick slices of tomatoes. Pour a cupful of boil- 
ing water over it, cover, and cook for thirty-five 
minutes in a hot oven. Meanwhile boU until 
tender a pint of green peas, a pint of finely cut 
up potatoes, 3 carrots cut into small pieces, and 
8 or 10 onions. Season these with pepper and 
salt. Place the beef with the tomatoes on a hot 
platter and arrange the vegetables neatly 
around the beef. Send at once to the table. 

Beef Balls 

Chop cold roast beef very fine, leaving in the 
fat, but removing all pieces of gristle. To 1 
cupful of meat put a small cupful of fine bread 
crumbs, salt and pepper, enough stock to 
moisten, a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, 
and 1 well-beaten egg. Set aside to cool, and 
when cold form into balls, roll in egg and fine 
crumbs, and fry for two minutes. 

Curried Beef 

Cut 3 onions into slices, and fry. Pour over 
them a little stock, and add a sliced sour apple 



BLEATS 227 

and simmer until tender. Bub through a sieve, 
add a tablespoonf ul of rice, and 1 of curry-paste 
and enough stock to make a sauce. When it 
becomes smooth and thick, put in the dressed 
beef, which has been cut into thin slices. Sim- 
mer gently for a short time, and serve with 
boiled rice. 

Steak A la Bordelaise 

Put 1 tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan, 
and 6 fresh mushrooms; cover and set on the 
back of the stove until the mushrooms are ten- 
der. Push the mushrooms to one side of the 
pan and add 1 tablespoonful of flour to the but- 
ter; when well mixed stir in a cupful of stock. 
Let it come to a boil, then season with salt, pep- 
per, and kitchen bouquet, and let it stand over 
hot water while you broil the steak. As soon as 
the steak is broiled, place it on a hot platter, ar- 
range the mushrooms on the steak, and pour the 
sauce over it all. Garnish with sprigs of pars- 
ley, and serve at once. 

Beef Loaf 

Chop 4 pounds of the round very fine ; add 2 
cupfuls of bread crumbs, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, 1 
large onion, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, and 4 eggs. 
Mix well together, then pack into a square 
bread-pan. When cool, turn it out into a 



' 



228 MEATSi POULTRY, AND GAME 

greased baking-pan, and bake for two hours in 

a moderate oven, basting occasionally. Serve 

cold, cut in thin slices with cream horseradish 

sauce. 

Smothered Beef 

Chop 2 pounds of lean beef very fine. Put 
it into a hot iron pan and set in a hot oven for 
fifteen minutes, stirring two or three times. 
Add 2 tablespoOnf uls of butter, 1 teaspoonful of 
salt, and half a one of pepper. Serve at once. 

MEAT AND POULTRY PIES 

Fowl Pie 

Cut an old fowl into joints, divide the breast 
into quarters, and put it in a saucepan with 
plenty of water. Season with onion juice and 
the juice of half a lemon; cover closely, and 
simmer gently for several hours or until the 
fowl is tender. Strain off the gravy and season 
it with minced parsley, a bay leaf, onion juice, 
salt, and paprika. Return to the fire, stir in a 
lump of butter rolled in flour, and cook for one 
minute. Cut the meat from the bones and ar- 
range it in a deep bake-dish ; pour in the gravy, 
lay 2 hard-boiled eggs cut into slices over the 
top, cover with a good crust, and bake. 

Chicken Potpies 

Have several deep dishes about the size of 
a birdbath for the pies. Cut a young fowl into 



XilEATS 229 

joints, cover with cold water, and cook until 
tender, but not until the meat leaves the bones. 
Lay a piece of light and a piece of dark meat 
in eadi dish, add some minced salt pork and 
slices of potatoes. Pat 3 small cubes of pastry 
into each dish, and 2 very small onions which 
have parboiled for five minutes. Thicken 2 
cupfuls of the liquor the ducken was cooked in, 
with a lump of butter rolled in flour, and season 
it with paprika and minced parsley. Fill the 
dishes, cover each with a good crust, make a 
slit in the middle of each, and bake for thirty 
minutes. This can be made in one dish. 

Chlcken-and-Ham Pie 

Cut up a young fowl into joints, cover with 
cold water, and stew until tender. Have ready 
4 slices of cold, boiled corned ham, cut into 
strips. Put a layer of ham in the bottom of a 
buttered baking-dish, season with parsley, 
chopped mushrooms, salt, and pepper. Now 
turn in some white sauce made from the liquor 
the chicken was cooked in, then arrange the 
pieces of chicken and the yolks of hard-boiled 
eggs. Bepeat the sauce and seasoning, lay a 
few strips of ham on top, cover with a good 
crust, and bake for an hour and a half. Mush- 
room catsup may be substituted for the fresh 
mushroom. 



230 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

Rolled Boiled Beef 

Cut a piece of flank beef about 12 inches 
long, 6 wide, and 2 inches thick. Lay on a dish 
and cover with the following force-meat: 1 
cupful of cracker or bread crumbs, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of finely chopped pork; 1 saltspoon- 
ful each of marjoram, sage, and thyme ; a few 
drops of onion juice, 1 teaspoonf ul of chopped 
onion, ^ teaspoonful salt, y^ saltspoonful of 
pepper, and 1 egg* Add enough good stock to 
moisten it so that it can be spread on the meat. 
Boll the meat, spread with the force-meat, and 
tie it closely together ; sew it up in cheesedoth, 
put it into a kettle of boiling water, and cook 
slowly for four hours. Let the beef lie in the 
water until it is cool, then place it under a 
heavy weight for twenty-four hours. Serve 
cold with horseradish sauce. Corned beef is 
good prepared in the same way. 

Baked Beefsteak k la Jardiniere 

Pound a tough steak well, then lay it in salad- 
oil and lemon juice for two hours. Then put 
in your roaster and cover with 2 sliced to- 
matoes, an onion and turnip, and some minced 
sweet herbs. Pour in a cupful of cold water, 
cover closely and cook slowly, allowing twenty 
minutes to each pound. Peel 4 good-sized to- 
matoes and put them into a saucepan to cook. 



MEATS 231 

Cut 1 large carrot, 2 turnips, 2 onions, and 4 
stalks of celery into dice, and cook them in 
salted water in separate dishes. When the 
steak is done place it where it will keep hot 
while you make the gravy. Strain the gravy, 
rubbing the vegetables with it through a col- 
ander, and thicken with browned flour. Boil 
one minute, then add the juice of 1 lemon and 
a glass of sherry. 

Place the meat on a hot platter, lay the vege- 
table dice around it, leaving the tomatoes 
whole; pour the gravy over all, and then let it 
stand for a few moments so that the gravy 
will soak in. 

A New England Pot Roast 

Lay a round of beef in a deep pot ; pour in a 
cupful of boiling water, add 2 slices of onion; 
cover, and cook slowly, allowing ten minutes 
to a pound. Now put it in a dripping-pan, rub 
with butter and flour, and let it brown in a hot 
oven. Strain the gravy left in the pan, season 
with salt, pepper, and a little kitchen bouquet, 
and thicken it with browned flour. Let it boil 
for one minute, then pour into a gravy-boat or 
around the beef. 

Beef Hot-pot 

Put 2 pounds of beef ribs into a saucepan 
with 1 tablespoonful of dripping. Season with 



232 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

2 chopped onions, 6 small green peppers, a 
little black pepper, thyme, vinegar, raisins, 
olives, and tomatoes. Place a cover on the 
saucepan and stew until boiled to rags. 
Thicken with butter rolled in browned flour, and 
serve on toast. 

Braised Beefs Tonsue 

Wash a fresh tongue and put it into a pot 
to boil. Boil one hour ; then trim off the tough 
edges. Fry a sliced onion in 3 tablespoonfuls 
of dripping, then drain out the onion and place 
the tongue in the frying-pan and cook for ten 
minutes, turning twice. Now place the tongue 
on the grating of your covered roaster and 
dredge with flour ; pour the fat and a large cup- 
ful of boiling water over it and cook, closely 
covered, for an hour and a half, basting three 
or four times. When done take up the tongue 
and place it over boiling water to keep warm, 
while you skim off the fat and thicken the gravy 
with browned flour. Season with salt, paprika, 
onion juice, and half a cupful of strained to- 
mato sauce. Dish the tongue and pour the 
gravy over it. Eat horseradish sauce with it. 

Boiled Beefs Heart 

Wash the heart and then let it soak in cold 
salted water for half an hour. 'Wipe and stuff 
the ventricles with a force-meat of bread 



MEATS 233 

crumbs and diopped ham or salt pork, seasoned 
with salty paprika, thyme, and onion juioe. 

Sew up in a fitted piece of cheesecloth and 
let it come to a boil in salted water, to which 
a tablespoonful of vinegar has been added. 
Boil for two hours, turning the heart four or 
five times. Remove the cloth, and serve with 
a piquant sauce. 

Stewed Brisket of Beef 

Take about 7 pounds of nicely trimmed 
brisket. Any bone should be taken out ; get it 
without if possible. Put it into a stewpan with 
water or stock to cover, a layer of bacon under, 
and over a few cloves, whole allspice, a bunch 
of sweet herbs, 2 small onions, 2 carrots, and 
salt and pepper at discretion. Simmer in a 
tightly covered stewpan from four to four and 
a half hours; then strain off the liquid (there 
will not be much), reduce it to a glaze, keeping 
out a little for sauce. Olaze the meat, and 
send up the sauce thickened round it. Garnish 
with carrot cut into slices, and glazed onions, 
which must be cooked apart from the meat. 

Braised Fillet of Beef 

Take a fillet and roll it together, so as to bring 
the fat into the centre. Place a few slices of 
ham and a little gravy into a braising or stew- 
pan, on which place the meat; cover it with 



234 tXEATS, POULTRY, AND GABBB 

chopped carrotSy celeiy, small onions, a pickled 
chiliy a gherkin sliced, sweet herbs, mace, ^a 
little allspice, and salt. Simmer until the meat 
is tender. Brown it before the fire, or with a 
frying-pan; skim and season the sauce, and 
serve with vegetables and sauce on the same 
dish. 

Corned Beef 

Lay a large round of beef into a good pickle. 
Let it remain for ten days or more, turning it 
every day. Put it into a stewpan with sufficient 
water to cover it, and let it boil very gently 
until it is thoroughly done. Corned beef is 
often smoked before it is boiled. Allow half 
an hour to the pound after it has come to a boil. 

Fried Liver (Enfflish) 

Cut 1 pound of liver into slices a quarter of 
an inch in thickness, and dredge some flour 
over them. Take an equal number of slices 
of bacon, fat and lean together. Fry the 
bacon first, and when it is done enough, 
draw the rashers from the fat, and place 
them on a hot dish. Fry the slices of liver 
in the same fat, and when lightly browned on 
both sides, dish bacon and liver in a circle, a 
slice of each alternately. Pour the fat from 
the pan, and dredge a little flour into it. Add a 
quarter of a pint of broth, a little salt and pep- 



XAEATS 236 

per^ and a tablespoonf nl of mushroom ketchup. 

Stir smoothly together until the sauce boils, and 

pour it into the dish with the liver. Garnish 

with sliced lemon. If liked, a tablespoonful of 

finely minced gherkins or pickled walnuts may 

be added to the sauce. Time, a quarter of an 

hour to fry the liver; Sufficient for four or five 

persons. 

Meat for Beef Patties 

Mince half a pound of good fresh suet; put 
it to 1 pound of beef and 1 pound of veal, cut 
into small pieces, but not chopi)ed. Season it 
with pepper, salt, allspice, and a very little 
mace — the allspice and mace should be pounded. 
Mix all together ; and when wanted for patties, 
cut up a little parsley, and shred 1 blade of 
shallot, very finely, "to mix with it. Bake in 
patty-pans or buttered saucers for half an hour. 
They are also good cold, and may be warmed 
up at any time. 

Beef Fritters 

Scrape 1 pound of meat from a pieice of cold 
roast beef, and season it with pepper and salt. 
Have ready a batter made with % pound of 
flour and about ^ pint of water. Blend these 
two well together, and stir in a piece of butter 
about the size of an egg, which has been melted 
before the fire. Whisk the whites of 2 eggs, and 
add them to the batter with the scraped meat. 



236 MEATS» POULTRY, AND GAIffi 

Stir welly and drop only a small quantity at a 
time into the pan, when the lard or dripping is 
boiling. Turn, that both sides may be brown. 
From eight to ten minutes will be sufficient to 
cook them over a steady fire. Dry, and send 
to table on a napkin. Sufficient for two per- 
sons. 

Fricandeau of Beef 

Lard about 3 pounds of the rump or fillet of 

sirloin. Pound 3 or 4 doves, 6 whole allspice, 

and 2 blades of mace. Mix a little pepper and 

salt with these ingredients, and sprinkle it over 

the meat. Put it into a stewpan with a pint of 

medium stock, a glass of white wine, a bunch of 

savory herbs tied together, 2 shallots, and a 

little more pepper and salt. Stew the meat 

very slowly for two hours, when it will be done. 

Bemove it from the stewpan and cover to keep 

hot. Skim all the fat from the gravy, strain, 

and set it over the fire to boil till it is reduced 

to a glaze. Then put it over the top, and send 

it to table. 

Italian Steak 

Take 2 or 3 pounds of steak from the rump 

or fillet — ^let it be quite an inch and a half in 

thickness. Brown it in a stewpan with 2 or 3 

ounces of butter, turning it frequently over a 

quick fire. When brown alike on both sides, 

remove the steak to a baking-pan, with a tight- 



MEATS 237 

fitting lid. Fry 2 medium-sized onions, sliced, 

a shallot, minced, and a bunch of parsley in the 

same butter. Throw this over the steak in the 

pan. Add 2 large wineglassfuls of port, and 

2 breakfast-cupfuls of stock, with a root of 

celery cut into pieces, 2 pickled gherkins, 4 or 

5 cloves, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and salt to 

taste. Cover down the lid tight, that no steam 

may escape, and let it bake in the oven nearly 

an hour and a half, when put in a turnip and a 

carrot, whole, and close as before. If the roots 

are young they will be done in half an hour. 

Cut them into dice, and lay them over the top 

of the steak, which should be placed on a hot 

dish. Send to table with the gravy strained 

over. 

Jewish Sausaare* or Chorissa 

This is used as an accompaniment to boiled 

fish and other dishes, and is often met with at 

Jewish tables. It is purchased of the Jew 

butchers, and is prepared in the following way : 

Place the chorissa in warm water, let it heat 

gently, and then boil for twenty minutes. 

Serve, surrounded with rice made ready as for 

curry. Jewish sausages are very good broiled 

in slices after the previous boiling. They 

should be quite cold before being put again to 

the fire. One authority is of opinion that they 

will be found more digestible, as well as pleas* 



238 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

anter to the taste, if they are half -boiled at least 
before being broiled, toasted, or warmed in the 
oven for the table. 

Olla Podrida 

This is a Spanish national dish, consisting of 
several kinds of meat cut into small pieces and 
stewed with a variety of vegetables. It is much 
in favor with the poor, and is often kept so long 
that its odor and flavor both become highly 
offensive, hence its name — oUa podrida, signify- 
ing putrid mess. 

Stuffed Leff of Mutton (Parboiled and Baked) 

Take the bone out of a plump leg of mutton, 
wipe out the cavity and the outside with a damp 
cloth. Make a stuffing of 1 cup of stale bread 
crumbs, and a half pint of oysters, chopped or 
cut in 2 or 3 pieces. Moisten with the oyster 
liquor, and season with salt and pepper, a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice, a pinch of thyme, and 
a few crushed capers. Fill the cavity with this 
stuflSng, sew or skewer it together securely, put 
the meat in a kettle with sufficient boiling water 
to completely cover it. Let it parboil or sim- 
mer for half an hour, then take it out into a 
dripping-pan, dust with salt and pepper, and 
dredge with flour. Pour into the pan a good 
y2 cupful of the water in which the meat was 
boiled, and bake in a hot oven one hour, basting 



MEATS 239 

frequently while baking with the liquor in the 

pan. 

Boiled Leg: of Mutton 

Trim off the outer skin and fat, wipe and put 
the leg into boiling salted water. When the 
scum begins to form, skim it. 

Boil slowly or sinmier ten minutes to each 
pound of meat if it is mutton; fifteen minutes 
for lamb. 

Serve with caper sauce and currant jelly. 
Qamish the joint with parsley. 

Mutton Cutlets and Mushrooms 

Gut the mutton in roimd, rather thin slices. 
Dust with salt and pepper, dip -into beaten eggj 
and then in bread crumbs, again in egg and 
crumbs ; fry in hot fat until a light brown. 

Simmer a cupful of chopped mushrooms in 
^ cup of good stock or gravy ; season with salt 
and pepper, add ^ glass of melted currant 
jelly, and pour around the cutlets, after putting 
them on the hot serving dish. 

Broiled Mutton Chops 

Loin chops are the best. Trim off the outer 
skin and superfluous fat. Broil on a wire 
broiler over clear, hot coals, turning quickly 
that both sides may be seared and confine the 
juice. As soon as both sides have been kept 
for two minutes to the fire, let them broil more 



240 MEAT9, POULTRY^ AND GAMB 

slowly until done; five minutes is sufficient if 
they are liked rare. As soon as done lay the 
chops on a hot platter, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and serve plain or with parsley butter, 
tomato or soubise sauce. Garnish with parsley 
and slices of lemon. 

Pan-broiled Mutton Chops 

Prepare the chops the same as for broiling 
over coals. Have a frying-pan at a blue heat. 
Put the chops in without any fat, cook one min- 
ute, then turn and cook the other side, turn 
again and finish a little more slowly. Stand 
them up in such a way as to cook the edges, but 
do not let them get overdone. Just before tak- 
ing them up sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Put them on a very hot serving-dish, turn 
melted butter or parsley butter over them, and 
serve plain or with a border of green peas. 

Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton 

Have the bones taken out of a shoulder of 
mutton. Bub it all over with salt and dust it 
with pepper. Make a dressing of 1 cupful bread 
crumbs, 1 cupful finely chopped raw potatoes, 1 
onion chopped fine and cooked five minutes in 
a tablespoonf ul of butter, and % cupful of finely 
minced boiled ham. Mix all thoroughly to- 
gether ; season with salt, pepper, a teaspoonf ul 
of mixed sweet herbs, and if any moistening is 



MEATS 241 

needed, add sufficient hot water to moisten the 
bread cmmbs. Put this dressing in the inside 
of the shoulder, roll up compactly, and stitch or 
tie it securely. 

Put it in the basting-pan, pour around it a 
cupful of good broth, and roast one and a half 
hours in a moderately hot oven, basting often 
with the broth. 

Serve all mutton on very hot dishes. 

Braised Fillet of Mutton 

Cut the fillet from a leg of mutton by taking 
off a few inches from the loin end, and a good 
knuckle, which will do for boiling, from the 
other end. Take out the bone, and fill the 
hollow with force-meat, if liked, or put the fillet, 
well sprinkled with pepper and salt, into a 
braising-pan as it is, but first lay over the bot- 
tom slices of bacon, and on these a couple of 
carrots and 2 large onions, each stuck with 4 
cloves, a small bunch of parsley and thyme, a 
few peppercorns, and half a pint of gravy or 
stock. Put more bacon on the top, cover the 
lid, and braise for three or four hours. Strain 
the gravy, and flavor it to taste; reduce it by 
rapid boiling. Have ready some French beans 
boiled and drained ; put the beans into a stew- 
pan with the gravy, and when hot serve them 
and the meat, which should be glazed, on the 



242 BIIEAT3r POULTRY, AND GAME 

same dish. The chump end of a loin may be 
roasted, then glazed, and served with beans in 
precisely the same way. The meat should be 
roasted slowly without getting any brown color. 
Time, about two hours to roast the chump. 

Curried Mutton 

Put 4 ounces of butter into a stewpan, and 
poimd 6 middle-sized onions in a mortar; add 
the onions to the butter with an oimce of curry 
powder, a teaspoonful of salt, a dessertspoonful 
of flour, and half a pint of cream. Stir until 
smooth. Fry 2 pounds of mutton, cut in neat 
pieces, without bone. Let them be of a light 
brown color. Lay the meat into a clean stew- 
pan, and pour the curry mixture over. Simmer 
until the meat is done. Time, two hours to 
simmer. Sufficient, two pounds for four or five 
persons. 

Haricot Mutton 

Take 3 pounds of the neck of mutton, divide 
it into cutlets, trim them neatly, and fry them 
in a little dripping till nicely browned, and with 
them 3 carrots, 2 turnips, and an onion, all 
sliced. Drain them from the fat, and put them 
into a saucepan. Pour over them a quart of 
water, which has been boiled in the pan in which 
the meat, etc., was fried, and thicken with a 
tablespoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with a 



MEATS 243 

little cold water. Skim carefully, and season 
with salt and pepper according to taste, and a 
little catsup. Simmer for an hour. Serve with 
the meat in the middle of the dish, the vege- 
tables round it, and the gravy poured over all. 
A few sippets of toasted bread may be placed 
at the bottom of the dish, or served as a gar- 
nish. A garniture of beans is a great improve- 
ment. Sufficient for five or six persons. 

Roasted Loin of Mutton 

Follow the directions given for roast leg in 
every particular, but trim off all unnecessary 
fat, which may be used for a common suet crust. 
If the fat be not turned to account there is no 
more expensive joint than a loin of mutton. 
Cover the fat with paper until within a quarter 
of an hour of its being done, then remove, baste, 
and flour slightly, to get it frothed. Time, a 
quarter of an hour to the pound. Sufficient, six 
pounds for five or more persons. 

Kebobbed Mutton 

This favorite Oriental dish can be prepared 
with our mutton in a manner far superior to 
any Kebob at Turkish or Egyptian tables. 
Take a loin of mutton, joint it well at every 
bone, cut off all superfluous fat, particularly of 
the kidney, and remove the skin; prepare a 
well-proportioned and large seasoning of the 



244 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

following ingredients: Some bread crumbs, 
sweet herbs, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; brush 
the mutton chops over with yolk of eggj and 
sprinkle the above mixture thickly over them; 
then tie the chops together in their original 
order, run a slender spit through them, and 
roast in a hot oven, basting them well with but- 
ter and the drippings from the meat, and throw- 
ing more of the seasoning on them from time 
to time. Serve with the gravy from the meat, 
and have ready besides a boat of gravy, to 
which has been added 2 tablespoonf uls of catsup 
and a thickening of flour; let this gravy boil; 
skim and mix it with the gravy in the dislu 
Bemember that all dishes of mutton should be 
served as hot as possible. Time, a quarter of 
an hour to a pound. Sufficient for four or five 
persons. 

Roasted Leg: of Lamb 

To roast without stuffing, wipe with a damp 
cloth, dredge with salt, pepper, ^nd flour. Put 
it in a dripping-pan with some of the kidney 
fat and just water enough to prevent its bum- ' 
ing; put it in a hot oven, and as soon as the 
flour begins to brown, baste with the water in 
the pan. Bake from an hour to an hour and 
a quarter. 

To stuff: remove the bone, wipe out the 
cavity and fill with a stuffing made of 1 cup 



MEATS 245 

stale bread crumbs and a quarter of a cup of 
melted butter, moistening more, if necessary, 
with hot water. Season with a half teaspoon 
of salt, pepper, thyme, and marjoram (or a tea- 
spoonful of mixed sweet herbs). A few drops 
of onion juice may be added with good result. 
Fill the cavity, sew or skewer it together, and 
roast as above. Serve with mint sauce. 

Breast of Lamb Braised & la Milanese 

Cover the- bottom of a saucepan with thin 
slices of fat bacon; on these place a trimmed 
breast of lamb with 2 or 3 slices of lemon on 
top, and cover the whole with a few more slices 
of bacon. Add a sliced onion and pour in ^ 
pint of stock; cover, and put live ashes on top 
of the lid. Draw the saucepan to one side of 
the fire and braise slowly till the breast is ten- 
der, glazing it when cooked. Lay it on a bed 
of macaroni on a hot dish, pour rich brown 
gravy over, and serve. 

Blanquette of Lamb 

Cut in small pieces the meat from 2 shoul- 
ders of lamb ; put into a stewpan and cover with 
clear broth, or water, and add 1 teacupful white 
wine. When the broth has boiled two or three 
minutes strain it, and set where it will settle. 
Fry 1 chopped onion in a stewpan with a little 
butter till brown; then add the meat and fry 



2^ MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

five minutes. Season with pepper and salt; 
sprinkle lightly with a little flour, and pour in 
the broth gradually. 

Put in 2 cloves and 2 peppercorns, a little 
chopped mushroom, a bay leaf, and a couple of 
parsley sprigs. Boil all quickly for ten or fif- 
teen minutes — ^till the liquor is reduced to one- 
fourth its original quantity; then remove to 
the back of the range, and cook slowly till the 
meat is done. 

Then skim off the fat from the sauce; stir in 
3 beaten eggs with a little milk added ; stir till 
it thickens, but do not let it boil; grate in a 
suspicion of nutmeg, and take up the meat ; lay 
it on a hot dish, strain the sauce over it, and 
sprinkle with parsley. Serve at once. 

Ballotin of Lamb with Green Peas 

Bone a 3-pound shoulder of lamb — ^the end 
bone may be left for a handle. Season with a 
teaspoonful each of salt and pepper; sew up 
and fasten securely with string, and boil in 
stock pot for five minutes. Let it cool, and 
grease the top with a larding-needle. Put it in 
a saucepan with a small, thin strip of fat pork^ 
and a chopped potato, beet, and onion. Cook 
eight or ten minutes, till lightly browned; then 
turn over a pint of broth and Spanish sauce in 
equal parts and cook in the oven about forty- 



MEATS 247 

five minutes. Then strain the sauce over a pint 
of boiled green peas, and cook for two or three 
minutes more. Take the strings from the 
ballotin; place it on top of the vegetable gar- 
nishing on a hot dish, and serve. 

Lamb Brochettes 

Take the skin from a raw leg of lamb; take 
out the bone, and cut the meat into pieces of 
uniform size. Put them into a bowl and add 
2 shallots, chopped fine, a teaspoonful each of 
pepper, chopped chives, and parsley, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, the juice of half a lemon, and 
a grating of nutmeg. Let this steep for two 
hours, turning the pieces of lamb occasionally; 
then take them out, and run a skewer through 
the centre of each piece, larding it with a strip 
of salt pork ; roll in bread crumbs till well cov- 
ered, and broil for five minutes. 

Lamb Chops with Champagne Sauce 

Trim 6 lamb chops, and season with 1 salt- 
spoonful salt and y^ saltspoonful pepper; fry 
in a tablespoonful of butter, about a minute on 
each side. Let them cool slightly, and spread 
chicken force-meat over both sides ; cover with 
beaten egg, and an outside coating of bread- 
crumbs ; fry in 4 tablespoonfuls butter for five 
minutes on each side. 



248 MEATS^ POULTRY, AND GAME 

Put a frill of paper on the end of eadi chop, 
and serve on a hot dish with half a pint of 
6hampagne sauce poured over. 

Lamb Epigram mes with Asparasus Tips 

Braise a small breast of lamb until tender, 
then place between two dishes under a weight 
till cold. Then cut into equal pieces, fasten a 
bone like a cutlet bone in each, and trim in 
cutlet shape. 

Prepare an equal number of lamb cutlets of 
the same size. Season all with salt, pepper, 
and a few drops of lemon juice, then dip in 
beaten egg^ and cover well with bread crumbs. 
Fry in 2 tablespoonfuls of butter till golden 
brown ; drain well, and lay in a circle on a hot 
dish, with boiled asparagus tips in the centre. 
Serve with a garnish of parsley. 

Lamb's Fry 

Take a pound or a pound and a half of lamb's 
fry. Wash thoroughly in cold water, then set 
it in a saucepan, cover it with cold water, and 
let it boil for three or four minutes. Take it 
out, drain, and dry it in a cloth. Mix a tea- 
spoonful of flour very smoothly with a little 
cold water, and add to it a small pinch of salt 
and pepper, 6 teaspoonfuls of water, and a well- 
beaten egg. Dip each piece of the fry into this 



MEATS 249 

mixtnrey then fry it in 3 otmces of hot dripping 
until it is brightly browned on both sideSi with- 
out being at all burnt. Mix a tablespoonful of 
flour, very smoothly, with the fat in the frying- 
pan, until it is lightly browned. Add sufficient 
boiling water to bring it to the thickness of 
cream, a tablespoonful of catsup, and a little 
browning, if necessary. A few mushrooms, or 
a little chopped onion, may be added, if liked 
If preferred, the fry may be cooked without the 
batter, or beaten egg and bread crumbs may be 
substituted for it. 

Broiled Lamb Chops 

Cut the chops about half an inch thick, trim 
them neatly, flatten them, remove the superflu- 
ous fat, place them on a hot gridiron over a 
clear fire, and let them remain until brightly 
browned on bofli sides, turning them with steak- 
tongs when required. Season them with pep- 
per and salt, and serve as hot as possible. Oar- 
nish with parsley. Mashed potatoes, aspara- 
gus, green peas, or spinach are usually served 
with lamb chops. Time, eight or nine minutes 
to broil. Sufficient, half a dozen chops for two 
or three persons. 

Fried Lamb Chops with Parmesan 

Take some lamb chops from the loin or neck. 
Mix some bread crumbs with a little grated 



250 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 



Parmesan cheese. Dip the chops first into 
clarified butter and bread crumbs, and after- 
wards into beaten egg and bread crumbs. Fry 
the chops as before until they are lightly 
browned on both sides, dish them in a circle, 
and send tomato sauce to table in a tureen. 
Time, ten to fifteen minutes. 

Minced Lamb with Poached Eeffs 

Trim some pieces of cold roast lamb and put 
them through a meat-cutter; season well with 
salt and pepper, and a little mint chopped fine. 

Heat some gravy in a saucepan ; when boiling 
hot thicken with browned flour, and stir in the 
minced meat. Prepare as many triangles of 
buttered toast as needed ; place on each piece a 
poached egg ; use these as a garnish around the 
mince, when it is poured on a flat dish — ^hot. 

Curried Pork 

After removing the skin and superfluous fat 
from 2^ pounds of pork, cut it into small, thin 
pieces, put them in a saucepan with a table- 
spoonful of butter, and fry for a few minutes 
till they begin to turn brown; then put in 2 
chopped onions, a tablespoonful of curry pow- 
der, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir all to- 
gether and pour in 2 cupfuls broth or water; 
let it come to a boil, and then only simmer for 
about an hour ; then put the pieces of meat on 



MEATS ^ 

a dish and keep hot while the broth is boiled 
quickly down one-half. Pour it over the meat, 
and serve with well-boiled rice, as a garnish 
or separately. 

Broiled Pork and Chili Sauce 

A considerable quantity of chili sauce may 
be prepared at once, as it keeps for some length 
of time ; it should be ready before the meat is 
cooked. 

Cut from a leg of fresh pork the desired num- 
ber of cutlets about half an inch thick. Place 
them in a double broiler, and cook moderately 
for twenty minutes, or till well done ; then place 
on a hot dish, season well with salt and pepper, 
and a little butter. Serve with chili sauce in 
a sauce-boat. 

Fried Pork Cutlets 

Take off the skin and extra fat from a loin 
of pork, chop it into cutlets ; fry them in a lump 
of butter till a bright brown. Have ready the 
bones and any trimmings from ham or bacon, 
and brown them with a couple of sliced onions ; 
cover with water and boil for two hours ; then 
strain and skin. Pour this liquor into another 
saucepan, and thiq^en with a little isinglass, 
and add a small quantity of browning for a 
color. Brush this glaze over the cutlets, put 



2S2 MEATS» POULTRY, AND GAISB 

them on a hot dish, and turn over some hot 
tomato sauce; serve immediately. 

Baked Plffs' Ears 

The cartilaginous nature of pigs* ears — ^while 
it is a serious drawback to their transformation 
into ** silk purses " — ^makes them a desirable 
article of food. 

Singe off the hair, then scrape and blanch 
6 or more pigs' ears; when cold, put them into 
warm butter, then cover thickly with bread 
crumbs; dip into well-beaten egg yolks, and 
again cover with crumbs. 

Place in a baking-dish and bake moderately 
till done and slightly browned. Arrange on a 
hot dish, pour remoulade sauce over them, and 
serve. 

Boiled PIffs' Feet 

Put the washed pigs' feet in a stewpan with 
enough water to cover; when it boils take the 
pan off the fire and strain off the water, and put 
the feet in a bowl of cold water. Binse and 
scald the pan and put back the feet, with 2 
quarts of water, a tablespoonful each of salt 
and vinegar, and a tablespoonful of flour mixed 
in a little cold water till smooth. Stir this into 
the liquor, and continue stirring till it boils; 
then draw the pan to one side and let it simmer 
slowly four hours. Take the feet up on a hot 



MEATS 253 

_ < _ ■■ 

dish, pour over a white sauce, and serve 
quickly. 

Piffs* Feet> Stuffed i la Pirlffueux 

With a pound and a half of turkey force- 
meat mix thoroughly a couple of truffles, minced 
fine, and half a wineglass of madeira wine. 

Take half a dozen pieces of shredded crepi- 
nette (a skin from the pig's stomach) and 
spread on each a piece of force-meat the size 
of an egg, and on this put half a pig's foot, 
boned. Cover lightly with force-meat, and lay 
2 or 3 thin slices of truffles on top. Fold over 
the crepinettes in the shape of envelopes ; then 
dip them in beaten egg and cover with bread 
crumbs, and cook in 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
in a saute-pan; let them cook slowly for about 
fifteen minutes on each side, with a heavy 
weight on the pigs' feet. Serve with half a 
pint of hot Perigueux sauce; or, if preferred, 
serve with hot madeira sauce instead. 

SAUSAGES 

Mrs. Lincoln says : * * If you like to know 
what you are eating, have your sausage meat 
prepared at home or by some one whom you 
can trust." 

The best sausage is made from young or pig 
pork, and the process is not a difficult one if, as 



254 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

there should be, there is a meat and vegetable 
grinder among the kitchen utensils. When 
once used, this will be found quite indispensable 
for meats, vegetables, bread crumbs — almost 
anything that requires to be chopped. Ham- 
burg steaks as well as sausages are much better 
when prepared in one's own kitchen. 

In selecting the pork for sausage, get one- 
third or one-fourth fat, the remainder good, 
solid lean. Grind fat and lean together (or 
have the butcher do it). Season highly with 
salt, pepper, sage, and a little thyme. A good 
proportion for the seasoning is an even table- 
spoonful of salt, 1 even teaspoonful of pulver- 
ized and sifted sage, y^, teaspoonful of thyme, 
powdered and sifted, and a saltspoon of white 
pepper to each pound of meat. 

Mix all thoroughly together and fill cotton 
bags, pressing the meat in compactly. Bags 
may be made for the purpose, from strong 
muslin, half a yard in length and four or five 
inches wide, or small salt bags may be saved for 
the purpose These should be washed and 
boiled, and when needed for use dip in very 
strong salt water and dry them. 

When filled as full as possible tie the mouths 
of the bags securely and put in a cool place. 
Several small bags are better than one large 
one, as only the meat for once or twice using is 



MEATS 255 

disturbed. Cut in slices what is needed, and tie 
the bag again. 

• In frying do not have the pan too hot at first, 
as they need thorough cooking, and the outside 
should be well browned, but not burned. 

As an accompaniment, core and pare 1 or 2 
tart apples for each person; slice them across 
and fry in the sausage fat until tender, but not 
broken. Put the sausages in the centre of a 
hot platter and pile the slices around them. 
Tomato sauce may be substituted for the 
apples. 

Boston brown bread sliced thin and sauted in 
the sausage pan, turning so that both sides are 
nicely browned, is a good addition to the dish. 

MeckienburK Liver Sausases 

Take the liver from a pig while it is quite 
fresh; mince it, and then pass it through a 
coarse sieve, but first ascertain its weight. To 
a pound of the liver mix a half-pound of pork 
(boiled tender) that has been cut from any part 
of the pig, although slices from the breast are 
usually taken. Take the tongue, kidneys, and 
some of the inside fat; chop this meat, but do 
not mince it, and mix all with the raw liver. 
Season with salt, pepper, powdered cloves or all- 
spice, and a few sage-leaves reduced to powder. 
The top-fat, from the boiling of the meat, and 



256 MEATS> POULTRY, AND GABUB 

the liquor should both be used. Put the fat, 
with the meaty into the skins when filling, and 
boil the sausages in the liquor (salted), which 
must be made quite hot before they are put in. 
Plunge them, when cooked, into cold water; 
then hang them to dry. To be smoked, or not. 
The skins must be only three-parts filled. 
Time to boil, half an hour. 

Baked Sausages 

Put a dozen sausages on a baking-dish, alter- 
nating with 12 strips of bread cut of an equal 
length with the sausages. Prick the sausages, 
and bake for fifteen minutes; baste with their 
own liquor a few times, and when done, serve 
on a small hot platter with a sauce-boat of hot 
madeira sauce. 

Devilled Sausases 

Steam the required number of pork sausages 
for an hour ; let them get cold. Fry small tri- 
angles of bread in butter to a golden brown; 
then drain and cover thinly with a curry paste. 
Skin and slice the sausages thinly, lengthwise, 
and lay half a sausage slice on each piece of 
bread, and spread over a small quantity of 
mango chutney. Cover, and put in the oven till 
thoroughly hot. Then lay them on a fancy 
paper on a hot dish, and serve with a garnish 
of parsley and sliced lemon. 



MEATS 257 

Boiled Sausases with Wfiite Wine 

For half a dozen sausages take a half -pint of 
white wine ; pepper the sausages, cover, and let 
them boil gently for ten minutes ; then take up 
the sausages, add a small cupful of poulette 
sauce to the stock, and boil rapidly three or 
four minutes. 

Bemove from the fire and add a tablespoon- 
ful each of chopped parsley and butter. When 
the butter has melted, pour the sauce over the 
sausages on a hot dish, and serve quickly. 

Frankfort Sausages 

Mince fine equal quantities of fat and lean 
pork ; season with salt and pepper to taste, and 
coriander seed with a little grated nutmeg. (If 
preferred, use powdered sage in place of the 
coriander seed and nutmeg.) Fill thoroughly 
cleansed skins, that have been soaked in cold 
salt water, with the sausage meat; fasten the 
ends securely, and let them hang in a dry, cool 
place till wanted. 

Boston Baked Beans 

To be baked to i)erf ection, the New England 
bean-pot should be used, with a narrow mouth 
and bulging sides and a cover that fits the 
mouth. 

Soak overnight in cold water 1 quart of navy 
or pea beans. In the morning pour off the 



258 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

water and put them over the fire in fresh water, 
and simmer, or parboil, until, on lifting a few 
on a spoon and blowing a breath over them, the 
skins crack slightly, but do not allow them to 
cook until they break to pieces. Pour off the 
water, put them in the bean-pot with a small 
onion in the bottom. 

Pour boiling water over ^4 pound of salt 
pork well streaked with lean. Scrape the rind 
well, or until it is white ; score through the rind 
in half -inch strips. Bury the pork in the beans 
until the rind is even with the beans. Mix i/4 
of a cup of molasses with a scant teaspoon of 
mustard, a little salt — ^if the pork is very lean 
less salt will be required than if nearly all fat ; 
add a cup of boiling water, mix well, and pour 
over the beans. Add enough more boiling 
water to cover. Put the cover on the pot and 
bake from six to ten hours in a moderate oven ; 
the longer time is better. Watch that the water 
does not cook away and leave the beans dry, 
adding boiling water to keep them nearly cov- 
ered until an hour before they are done, when 
remove the cover of the pot, lift the pork 
slightly above the surface, and allow it to 
brown. Cooked in this way they will be rich 
and juicy and of a rich red-brown color, each 
bean being whole, but very tender. To be 
perfect as served on their ** native soil,'* they 



MEATS 259 

shonld be very hot and have served with them 
the real Boston brown bread, steaming hot, 
sliced as it is served. 

The red kidney beans are delicious cooked in 
the same way, as are also what are known in 
New England as cranberry beans, a red- 
speckled variety, both these latter being very 
rich and of a delicious flavor. 

Roast Suckins Pis: 

Wipe the pig thoroughly, stuff it, and sew up 
the slit securely with soft cotton. Truss it like 
a hare, with the fore-legs skewered back and 
the hind-legs drawn forward. Bub it over with 
clarified butter, or fresh salad-oil, and put it 
into a moderately hot oven. Baste constantly, 
or the crackling will be blistered and burnt, in- 
stead of crisp and brown. The middle part 
requires less roasting than the ends. It is 
usual to keep turning the roast, being quick so 
as not to cool the oven. Baste thoroughly whilst 
it is roasting. When it is cooked, remove to a 
platter and keep hot. Bemove the fat from the 
gravy which has dropped from the pig, and, 
when it can be obtained, add a cupful of good 
veal or beef gravy, together with a little 
cayenne, lemon juice, and grated nutmeg. To 
thicken sift in a little flour, making a rich brown 
sauce. Tomato, poivrade, piquant, proveuQalO; 



260 MEATS» POUL'TRY, AND GAME 

bread, apple, and the old-fashioned currant 
sauce are all served with sucking-pig. Time 
to roast, according to size: a three-weeks-old 
pig, two hours. Sufficient, a three-weeks-old 
pig for eight or nine persons. 

Broiled Pork Chops 

Get chops rather less than half an inch thick. 
Have a clear fire ; make the gridiron hot before 
putting the chops upon it, and let them be at 
such a distance that they may be done through. 
Pepper them before putting them down, and 
two or three minutes before they are done 
sprinkle a little salt over them, and, if liked, a 
little finely chopped sage or tarragon. Turn 
them frequently, and serve very hot. Tomato 
sauce, piquant sauce, Italian sauce, or Robert 
sauce, may be sent to table with them. Time 
to broil, sixteen to eighteen minutes. Sufficient, 
one pound for two persons. 

Fried Pork Chops 

Oet pork chops half an inch in thickness, take 
oS part of the fat, and trim them neatly. 
Sprinkle them on both sides with a little salt 
and pepper. Melt an ounce of butter in a sautS- 
pan ; put the chops in it, and fry them until they 
are thoroughly done. If liked, a little pow- 
dered sage can be sprinkled over them before 
serving. Send Bobert sauce, apple sauce, or 



MEATS 261 

piquant sauce to table in a tureen. Time to fry, 
twenty minutes — ^ten minutes on each side. 

Stuffing of Chestnuts and Sauce for 

Suckins Plff 

Peely scald, and blanch half a hundred chest- 
nuts, and boil them in a pint of milk, with a 
pinch, of salt and half an ounce of butter. 
When they are done enough, drain and dry 
them, and mix them with 1 pound of good pork 
sausage meat. Fill the body of the pig, and 
sew it securely. When the pig is filled with this 
force-meat, a sauce, made as follows, should be 
sent to table with it : Peel, scald, and blanch & 
ounces of sound chestnuts, and stew them in 
% of a pint of good brown gravy until they are 
sufficiently tender to be rubbed through a hair 
sieve. Stir into the pulp half a dozen table- 
spoonfuls of rich brown sauce, season rather 
highly with mace and cayenne, and add a little 
salt, if necessary. Stir the sauce over the fire 
until it boils, and serve immediately. A glass- 
ful of madeira or sherry may be added or not. 
Time, twenty minutes to boil the chestnuts for 
the stuffing; one hour and a quarter for the 
sauce. Sufficient for one pig. 

Stuffed and Roasted Les of Pork 

Mince finely 3 large onions which have been 
previously boiled or not, according to taste; 



262 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

mix with them half a dozen chopped sage- 
leaves, 4 otmoes of bread crumbs, an ounce of 
butter, a little pepper and salt, and half an 
apple chopped small. Bind the force-meat to- 
gether with the yolk of an egg. Baise the skin 
round the knuckle of the leg of pork, fasten it 
securely, and brush the rind all over with 
sweet oil. Put it in a moderately hot oven and 
baste liberally. Serve the meat on a hot dish, 
and send brown gravy and apple sauce to table 
with it. The flavor of this joint will be im- 
proved if it is stuffed the day before it is 
roasted. The GFermans stuff a leg of pork with 
sour apples only. Time, a joint weighing eight 
pounds will require three Lours. Sufficient for 
a dozen persons. 

Roasted Spare-Rib of Pork 

A spare-rib of pork usually weighs about 

• 

eight or nine pounds, and will take from two to 
three hours to roast it thoroughly — ^not exactly 
according to its weight, but the thickness of the 
meat upon it, which varies very much. Put 
into a moderately hot oven. A proper hald 
spare-rib of eight pounds* weight (so-called be- 
cause almost all the meat is pared off), with 
a steady fire, will be done in an hour and a quar- 
ter — there is so little meat on a bald spare-rib 
that if you have a large, fierce fire it will be 



MEATS 263 



- • 



burnt before it is warm through. Joint it 
nicely, and crack the ribs across as you do ribs 
of lamb. When you put it in to roast, dust 
on some flour, and baste with a little butter. 
Dry a dozen sage-leaves, rub them through a 
hair sieve, and put them into the top of a pep- 
I)er-box, and about a quarter of an hour before 
the meat is done baste it with butter, then dust 
pulverized sage, or sprinkle with duck-stuffing. 
Some people carve a spare-rib by cutting out in 
slices the thick part at the bottom of the bones. 
When this meat is cut away the bones may be 
easily separated, and are esteemed very sweet 
picking. Apple sauce, mashed yellow turnips, 
mashed potatoes, and good mustard are indis- 
pensable. 

Roast Loin of Pork 

Score the skin of a fresh loin of pork at equal 
distances, about a quarter of an inch apart. 
Brush it over with salad-oil, and place the joint 
into a hot oven. Baste liberally, and when 
done enough serve on a hot dish, and send 
brown gravy and apple sauce or Robert sauce 
to table with the meat. If liked, a little sage 
and onion stuffing may be served in a separate 
dish. It is better not to send it to table on the 
same dish as the meat, as many people object 
to the flavor. Time, a loin of pork weighing 



2M MEATS, POULTRY, AND GABIIE 

five ponnds, about two hours. Sufficient for 
half a dozen persons. 

Souse 

Take the feet of the pig and the head and 
ears, except the fat. Take off the hard part 
from the feet ; singe the hairs, scald and scrape 
thoroughly. Put them in strong salt water and 
let them soak overnight. Scrape and wash 
again, and put them in another salted water 
until ready to cook. Put them in the kettle, 
with enough cold water to cover, and as soon as 
it boils, skim carefully. Let it simmer until the 
bones are perfectly free from the meat, then 
skim out the meat and separate it from all 
bones, gristle, and the most of the fat, leaving 
only a little of the nicest. 

Season well with salt and pepper, add a little 
vinegar, mix all thoroughly, and pack in stone 
or earthen jars and put in a cool place with a 
weight on the top to harden. 

It may be served cold, nicely sliced, gar- 
nished with sprigs of parsley, or it can be sliced 
and browned in the oven, or cut in nice square 
or oblong slices, dipped in egg and com meal or 
fine crumbs, and sauted in hot drippings. 

Head Cheese 

Souse and head cheese are prepared in much 
the same way. For head cheese omit the vin- 



MEATS 2^ 

egar and season highly with savory herhs. Be- 
fore moulding in jars put it in a cheesecloth 
and press out the fat. Pack it in moulds of a 
convenient size and shape for slicing, and put 
it in a cool place. These old-time dishes fre- 
quently find favor with those who remember 
how they tasted ^' at grandmother's." 

Boiled Bacon 

Put the piece of bacon to be boiled into the 
pot with sufficient cold water to cover it. Allow 
it very gradually to come to a boil, removing 
all scum as it arises, and draw it aside to sim- 
mer until thoroughly done; then pull off the 
skin and serve with bread crumbs over the top. 
Time to boil two pounds, one hour and a half ; 
half an hour for each additional pound. 

Broiled Bacon 

Cut streaked bacon into thin slices and lay 
them on a gridiron over the fire; turn repeat- 
edly until of a light brown color, and serve hot. 
Time to broil, three to four minutes. 

Bacon and Calfs Liver 

The most economical way to prepare this is 
to fry the bacon first and make the fat serve 
for the liver, which, as well as the bacon, should 
be cut into thin slices. Fry the bacon, and 
remove it as soon as it is done enough to a hot 



266 BSEATSr POULTRY, AND GAME 

dish before the fire ; flour and pepper the liver, 
and place it in the pan; turn frequently until 
done, then place a slice of bacon on each slice 
of liver. Make a gravy by pouring off the fat 
and dredging a little flour into the pan; pour 
in enough water to supply the quantity of gravy 
desired^ add a tablespoonful of lemon juice, 
boil, and pour upon the dish. Garnish with 
force-meat or slices of lemon. Time, from five 
to ten minutes. 

Bacon and Effffs 

Place nicely cut slices of streaked bacon, 
from which the rind has been cut off to prevent 
it from curling up, into a cold pan over a slow 
fire ; turn frequently and serve with eggs, which 
may be poached or fried, and laid on the bacon. 
Time, three or four minutes. 

Broiled Ham 

Slices of ham for breakfast may be either 
broiled on a gridiron, toasted, or fried. They 
are, we think, best when toasted on a fork. If 
broiled, the fire must be very clear. The ham 
should not be more than an eighth of an inch in 
thickness, and is better when soaked in hot 
water for a quarter of an hour, and then dried 
in a cloth before being cooked. Turn it as it 
gets crisp. Time, five or six minutes to broiL 
Sufficient, one pound for two persons. 



MEATS 267 

Roasted Ham 

Soak the ham nntil it is softened, then put it 
into a deep pan, and pour over it a bottle of 
madeira, or any light wine, and with it 4 car- 
rots, 4 onions, and 1 dozen peppercorns. Turn 
it over every two or three hours, and leave it 
until the following day. Drain it, put it into 
a hot oven, and baste liberally with the liquid 
in which it was soaked. It will require four 
or five hours to roast, according to the size. 
Take it up, skin, and glaze it ; boil up the gravy, 
etc., which should be sent to table in a tureen. 
It is a good plan to boil the ham for an hour 
before it is put into the marinade, when, of 
course, it will not need to be roasted quite so 

long. 

Fried Ham with Effffs 

Cut the ham into slices of a uniform thick- 
ness, and, if it is very hard and salt, soak it for 
eight or ten minutes in hot water, then drain, 
and dry it in a cloth. Cut off the rind, put the 
slices in a scrupulously clean cold frying-pan, 
and turn them two or three times during cook- 
ing. Put them on a hot dish, and if the fat is 
in the least discolored, poach the eggs sepa- 
rately. Break the eggs, taking care not to 
break the yolks, and slip them into the pan. 
Gutter the whites over the yolks with two 
spoons, to shape the eggs like a ball. Take 



268 BIEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

them np with a slioey drain them from the f at, 
and plaoe them on the ham. Serve as hot as 
possible. Time, seven or eight minutes to fry 
the ham. Sufficient^ a pound of ham and six 
eggs for three persons. 

Veal Cutlets (Plain) 

Wipe and trim the outer skin from the cut- 
letSy sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper. 
Have the frying-pan hot, rub it with a piece of 
fat pork or beef suet. Put in the cutlets, and 
as soon as seared on one side turn and sear the 
other. Fry quickly, taking care that they do 
not bum or cook overmuch. There is less juice 
in a veal cutlet than in either beefsteak or lamb 
<Uiops, and they require careful cooking to be 
palatable. 

As soon as done remove to the hot platter 
and make a cream sauce by pouring into the 
pan half a cup of milk, and as soon as it reaches 
boiling-point add a teaspoonful of flour and a 
tablespoonful of butter, rubbed smoothly to- 
gether. Stir until smooth and bubbling, season 
with salt and pepper, and pour around the cut- 
lets. 

Breaded Veal Cutlets with Tomato Sauce 

The cutlets should be rather thin. Wipe 
them and trim off the skin and any stringy 
pieces of fat. Cut 2 or 3 slices of nice fat salt 



MEATS 269 

pork in strips % inch wide, fry them until 
crisped, and take out on a paper to drain. To 
the fat in the pan add a spoonful of beef drip- 
pings. Season the cutlets with salt and pep- 
per, crumb them by dipping in beaten egg and 
then in bread crumbs, and fry in the hot fat 
until well browned and cooked through, but not 
too hard. Take them up on a hot platter, and 
into the pan pour % of a cup of milk ; let it boil, 
add a half cup of hot strained tomato, and stir 
briskly. Season with salt and a dash of 
cayenne, and if the crumbs from the cutlets do 
not thicken the sauce sufficiently, add a few 
more, or some cracker flour, and stir till very 
smooth. Pour around the cutlets, and, if liked, 
lay the crisp strips of pork around the edge of 
the platter. 

Veal Potpie 

Take 2 or 3 pounds of veal, the knuckle or any 
pieces that are not too thin or stringy. Trim 
off the skin, take out the small bones, and cut 
the meat into convenient and attractive pieces 
for serving. Pack closely in a stewing-pan and 
cover with boiling water. As soon as it boils 
skim, add 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, a saltspoon of 
pepper, 1 small onion, sliced, and let it simmer 
two hours. 

Have 6 medium-sized potatoes pared and 



270 MEATS, POULTRY^ AND GAME 

soaking in cold water. Put them in with the 

meat and boil until nearly done. While the 

potatoes are cooking, make a short biscuit 

dough ; have the stew boiling rapidly and drop 

the dough in spoonfuls on the top — ^the liquor 

should be cooked away so that the crust will not 

sink into it, but rest on the top of the meat and 

potatoes, and cook by the steam. Cover closely 

at once, and cook rapidly fifteen minutes with- ' 

out raising the cover. Another five minutes' , 

cooking should not harm the dumplings, if kept 

covered and boiling. Take up the dumplings 

and put in the warm oven at once, taking care { 

that the cool air does not strike them suddenly. 

Add to the pie 2 teaspoonf uls of Worcestershire 

sauce and half a teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet, 

stir just enough to blend, turn into a deep serv- / 

ing-dish with the dumplings laid carefully on J 

the top. A cup of stewed and seasoned tomato, 

added just before the dumplings are put in, is 

a good addition. 

If there is too much of the gravy to p-^ur over 
the meat and potato, serve the remainder in a 
gravy-dish. 

Double the amount of dough needed for the 
pie made, and have the remainder rolled out at 
once and made into biscuit that can be baked 
for a dessert to be eaten with fruit. 



MEATS 27S 

Roast Veal 

Take a piece of loin, rib, or breast, not less 
than 5 or 6 pounds. It is not well to roast a 
smaller piece; it is likely to be dry and taste- 
less, dince veal must be well done to be whole-" 
some. And having less nutritive quality and 
fliavor than ahnost any other meat, it requires 
especial care in cooking and seasoning to make 
it palatable or of much value as food. 

If a small quantity only is wanted, it is better 
to cook it in some other way, and there are 
many ways of using cold roast. It may be 
made into stews, ragouts, baked in pies^ or 
served as entrees in croquettes, casseroles, tim- 
bales, etc. 

Wipe the piece to be roasted with a damp 
cloth, trim off any skin or objectionable edges, 
rub well with salt and pepper and a little pow- 
dered mixed sweet herbs, and dredge with flour. 
Put it in the roasting-pan and lay over the top 
thin scales of fat salt pork, skewering them in 
place, if necessary, with wooden toothpicks. 
The pork will flavor and baste the meat while 
cooking, but it is better to baste several times 
while cooking with the liquor in the pan. Pour 
half a cup of hot water in the pan and add just 
sufficient water, as it evaporates, to keep the 
bottom of the pan covered and prevent the flour 
and fat from burning. 



272 MEATS» POULTRY, AND GASIB 

Allow twenty minutes to a pound for roast- 
ing, with the oven at a quick heat, covering the 
top with buttered paper if it bums. When 
done take out on a hot platter, and make a 
gravy by adding hot water to the liquor in the 
pan, if necessary adding first a little more flour 
and stirring it until smooth. Salt more, if 
needed, and add a little Worcestershire sauce or 
a teaspoonful of horseradish. 

Stuffed Breast of Veal 

Make a stuflSng of stale bread crumbs, 
chopped onion, chopped salt pork — or butter, 
if preferred ; season well with salt, pepper, and 
savory herbs and parsley, moistened sufficiently 
with hot water. Fill the cavity under the thick 
part of the breast with as much stuffing as can 
be forced in, and skewer it well to hold the stuff- 
ing in, or sew the edges together with small 
twine. 

Boast in a moderately hot oven, twenty min- 
utes to a pound, basting frequently with the 
water in the pan and melted butter. 

Frlcadelles of Veal 

Take cold veal that has been cooked in any 
way. Trim off all skinny or gristly parts and 
cut free from bone. Chop fine, add to each cup- 
ful of chopped meat V^ cupful of fine buttered 
bread crumbs. Season with salt, pepper, and 



MEATS 273 

kitchen bouquet or savory herbs ; moisten with 
a little stock or gravy, make it ont in thin cakes, 
catlet shapes, brush with egg, and sprinkle with 
fine crumbs. Saute in plenty of butter or nice 
drippings until well browned. 

Tomato sauce is one of the best accompani- 
ments. To make it, after removing the f rica- 
delles to a hot platter, put in the frying-pan 
^2 <^P of tomato pulp, y^ cup of white sauce, 
and season more with salt and pepper, if neces- 
sary. Add a dash of cayenne or paprika. Cook 
all together until smooth, and pour around tiie 
fricadelles. 

Lamb may be used instead of veal. 

A border of green peas or asparagus tips is 
a good garnish for this dish. 

Boiled Calves' TonKUes 

Soak the tongues for an hour or more in cold 
water. Put them in a kettle and cover well 
with cold water. Bring quickly to a boil and 
skim. Add, for each tongue, 1 medium-sized 
carrot scraped and sliced, 1 small white turnip, 
1 small onion stuck with 2 cloves; add to the 
whole a bunch of sweet herbs. Season with 
salt and pepper. Boil slowly two hours. Take 
them out and skin them. If they are to be 
served cold, return them to the liquor and leave 
them in it to cooL 



274 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

Tiiey may be served hot with macaroni, 
spaghetti, or rice as a border. 

Breaded Calfs Brains 

Soak the brains in cold water until well 
bleached. Put them in a stewpan with a table- 
spoonful of vinegar, a small onion, sliced, a 
blade of mace, 2 or 3 cloves, salt and pepper, a 
% glass of white wine, and sufficient water to 
cover. Let them simmer half an hour, and 
take them out to cool and drain. When quite 
cold, slice the brain in rather thin slices, dip 
them in egg and seasoned bread crumbs, and 
saute iQ butter or nice drippings. Serve as an 
entree garnished with parsley, or as a border to 
boiled rice or some delicate vegetable. 

Brain Sauce 

Take a calf's brains, clean, and soak an hour 
in cold water. Remove the outer skin, and put 
them in a stewpan with enough cold water to 
nearly cover them; add a tablespoonful of 
lemon juice or vinegar and half a teaspoonful 
of salt, and simmer fifteen minutes; then skim 
them out and plunge in cold water for a few 
minutes. Drain, and chop them fine. 

Have a pint of white sauce or drawn butter, ' 
season it with lemon juice and finely minced 
parsley and y^ teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet; 



MEATS 275 

add the chopped brains, and as soon as thor* 
onghly hot, serve. 

Serve with boiled calf's head or any dish that 
calls for a meat sauce. 

Baked Calf s Head 

Clean the head well. Put it in hot water 
enough to cover, and boil gently until the meat 
can be easily taken from the bones. Carefully 
remove all the nice bits of meat and cut or pull 
it apart into medium-sized pieces. Strain over 
it the water in which it was boiled. Season 
with salt and cayenne pepper, parsley, a few 
drops of onion juice and kitchen bouquet, and, 
if you like them, add a little clove, mace, and 
nutmeg. Add a good-sized lump of butter. 
There should be water enough to nearly cover 
the meat. 

Put it in the oven in a covered baking-dish, 
and bake until the meat is very tender. Take 
the meat out and arrange it on the platter in 
which it is to be served, and put it where it will 
keep hot. To the liquor in the baking-pan add 
3 well-beaten eggs and a wineglass of madeira 
or sherry wine. Have the liquor hot, but not 
boiling, and after adding the eggs, stir briskly 
until it thickens. 

As soon as it cooks to a creamy consistency 
pour over the meat, and serve at once. 



276 MEATS^ FOULTRYt AND GABflB 

Veal Fricassee 

Cut from the leg as many rather thin slioes 
as are needed^ or use any small pieces of the 
clear meat from other parts and cnt them in 
nice slices. Have slices of salt pork fried until 
crisp, or 2 tablespoonfnls of beef drippings. 
Put the slices of veal in the hot fat, not as many 
at a time as to prevent browning on all sides. 
Keep turning the slices as fast as they brown 
on the outside. A few thin slices of onion fried 
with the meat are an improvement. 

Take out the veal, and while the fat is still 
hot stir into it a tablespoonf ul of flour, stirring 
until very smooth and of a rich brown color. 
Add a pint of boiling water, season with salt 
and pepper, a blade of mace, and a few drops 
of kitchen bouquet. Lay the slices of veal in 
this gravy and simmer twenty minutes, or until 
quite tender, and serve. 

Boiled rice, macaroni, or spaghetti are good 
to serve with veal cooked in this way. It may 
be served around a mound of well-seasoned 
boiled macaroni. 

Veal Croquettes with Mushrooms 

2 cupf uls cold veal, chopped ; % cupful finely 
chopped boiled ham, with a little of the fat; Vz 
cupful good stock or meat gravy ; 1 small onion; 
1 scant cupful bread crumbs ; 1 egg ; 1 teaspoon- 



BIEATS 277 

fal salt; a little white pepper; a dash of nut- 
meg or maoe ; 1 teaspoonf td of Worcestershire 
sauce or 2 drops Tabasco sauce. 

Chop the onion fine and simmer it fifteen 
minntes in the stock or gravy. (Cream sauce 
will do if no stock is at hand.) Add this to the 
meat and the seasoning; when thoroughly 
mixed, add the bread crumbs and the beaten 
^gg. Make out into egg or cylinder shapes, roll 
in beaten egg^ then in crumbs, again in egg and 
crumbs, and fry in deep, hot fat xmtil a rich 
brown. 

Lift them out in the f rying-basket and put on 
brown paper to drain a few minutes. Pile in 
the centre of a hot platter with a border of 
button mushrooms and the seasoned and 
slightly thickened sauce in which the mush- 
rooms were stewed. 

Veal Loaf 

3^ pounds lean veal; % pound salt pork; 6 
soda crackers rolled fine or 1 cup fine bread 
crumbs; 2 eggs; 1 small onion, chopped fine; 
1 teaspoonf ul chopped parsley; a little grated 
nutmeg; % teaspoonf ul kitchen bouquet; salt 
and pepper. 

Chop or grind the veal and pork, or have it 
done by the butcher. Mix the onion and sea- 
soning well with the meat ; add the emmba and 



278 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

beaten egg. If too dry^ add sufficient water to 
moisten. It should be sufficiently moist to 
retain its juiciness after baking. A good way 
is to moisten the crumbs before mixing, as some 
will absorb more than others, and the loaf is 
not good, if dry all through when done. 

Make into an oval-shaped loaf and bake in a 
pan not much larger than the loaf, but with 
sufficient room to hold liquor for basting. Pour 
a little hot water in the pan; sprinkle bread 
crumbs and butter over the top, or lay thin 
slices of salt pork or bacon over, and bake two 
hours in moderately hot oven, basting fre- 
quently with liquor in the pan. 

Broiled Calf s Liver 

Letting liver stand for half an hour in salted 
water, after slicing it thin, will draw out the 
blood. Parboiling in salted water before broil- 
ing will make it more delicate and tender. 
Drain off the water, wipe the slices, brush it 
with butter, and broil quickly on both sides. 

Or dip the slices in beaten egg and in fine 
bread crambs, and pan-broil or saute in butter. 
When nicely browned and tender, remove to a 
hot platter, pour into the pan a half cupful of 
cream, and as soon as it boils add a half cupful 
of strained stewed tomato or 3 tablespoonfuls 
of tomato catsup and salt and pepper to tasta 



MEATS 279 

Stir briskly and pour the sauce aronnd the 
liver. 

Calfs Liver and Bacon 

Slice the liver thin and parboil five minutes 
in slightly salted water. Dry the slices, dust 
with pepper, and dredge lightly with flour. 
Cook thin slices of breakfast bacon until crisp. 
Bemove to a hot dish, and fry the liver in the 
bacon fat until nicely browned on both sides. 
Lay the slices on a hot platter and garnish with 
the crisp bacon. If carefully cooked, the fat 
in the paii will not be burned, and a nice gravy 
may be made by putting a teaspoonful of flour 
in the fat, stirring it until smooth. Then pour 
in gradually a half cupful of hot milk. Let it 
boil up, stirring constantly; season with salt 
and pepper, and pour over the liver. 

Calfs Liver and Onions Saut6ed 

Take 1 pound of liver sliced half an inch 
thick. Pour boiling water over and let it par- 
boil — ^barely simmer — for five to ten minutes. 
Pour oflf the water and dry the slices on a nap- 
kin ; dust both sides with salt and pepper. Put 
2 spoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan, and when 
hot lay the liver in and cook quickly until both 
sides are nicely browned. There is just the 
right degree of heat necessary to cook liver. It 
must not be cooked until hard and dry or 



28D MEATSb POULTRY, AND GAME 

burned, but it needs to be cooked all through. 
Ab soon as done remove the liver to a warm 
platter, to keep hot. Into the pan pnt another 
spoonfol of bntter and a small, finely chopped 
onion. Let it cook for five or six minutes, stir- 
ring nntU a light-brown color. Add a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice or wine vinegar, a 
tablespoonful of tomato catsup or a teaspoon- 
ful of Worcestershire sauce, and a little finely 
minced parsley. Put a spoonful of this sauce 
on top of each slice of liver. 

Serve around it a border of nicely browned 
potato balls or cakes, or small rice balls. 

Wiener Schnitzel (Viennese Veal Cutlets) 

Beat up an egg and well soak some veal cut- 
lets in it; dip them in bread cnuUbs and fry 
them in butter on both sides. As soon as they 
are cooked take them out, drain and lay them 
round a dish, place some grated horseradish 
and chopped anchovies in the centre, and serve 
with a sauce ** demiglace." The '^ sauce demi- 
glace" is made as follows: Take the trim- 
mings of the veal, put them in a saucepan with 
a little stock, onions, carrots, and a bouquet of 
herbs. Let all simmer together until the meat 
is in rags. Skim often. Pass all through a 
sieve, and clarify with the white of an egg well 
beaten. Strain again and place over the fire 



MEATS 281 

until the sauce is sufficiently thick. Serve with 

the cutlets. 

Minuten Fleisch 

Gut from the tender, juicy part of a leg of 
veal a pound and a half, in slices exceedingly 
thin, and from three to four indies square. 
Season each slice with salt and pepper, lay them 
in a deep dish, and pour over them enough wine 
to cover. When they have steeped and imbibed 
the wine, dust them with flour on both sides, 
and put them into a stewpan of dissolved but- 
ter ; add enough white stock to reach to half an 
inch above the meat. Squeeze in the juice of a 
lemon, and simmer with the lid closed. The 
meat should not boil hard, or it will be spoiled. 
Time, three hours to steep in wine ; five minutes 
to simmer after it has come to the boil. Suffi- 
cient for four or five persons. 

Vlnalsrette of Cold Meat 

Take any kind of cold dressed meat, cut it 
into neat slices, and put it upon a dish with cold 
potatoes cut into slices, hard-boiled eggs cut 
into quarters, and slices of beetroot. Season 
rather highly with pepper and salt, pour upon 
it oil and vinegar, in the proportion of 3 table- 
spoonfuls of oil to 2 of vinegar, and toss it 
lightly together with a fork. Sliced cucumber, 
chopped parsley, and finely minced onion may 



282 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

be added if liked, and a few drops of tarragon 
or chili vinegar may be mixed with the ordinary 
vinegar. Sometimes the various ingredients 
are sent to table prettily arranged in rings 
round a dish, with the colors contrasting, and 
they are mixed with the salad dressing at the 
moment of serving. A vinaigrette of cold 
boiled beef is excellent. 

Blanquette of Veal with Cucumbers 

Cut some cold veal into neat pieces about the 
size of a walnut and a quarter of an inch thick. 
Pare and quarter a large cucumber, and cut it 
into lengths of half an inch. Sprinkle a little 
salt upon these, and cover them with vinegar. 
Let them remain for half an hour. Drain them 
well, and dry them with a soft cloth. Dissolve 
a slice of fresh butter in a bright stewpan, and 
add a pinch of grated nutmeg and a small piece 
of sugar. Put in the slices of cucumber, and let 
them simmer gently till tender. Drain off the 
butter, pour some white sauce upon the cucum- 
ber, add the pieces of veal, and let all simmer 
gently together till the meat is quite hot. Place 
the veal on a dish, pour the sauce over, and gar- 
nish the dish with sippets. The white sauce 
should be made with nicely seasoned veal stock 
made from the veal bones, and thickened with 
white thickening. It will be improved by stew* 



MEATS 283 

ing onions and mushrooms in it to flavor it, but 
it will be very good without them. A little 
lemon juice may be stirred in at the last mo- 
ment. Time to stew the cucumber in the butter, 
about half an hour. 

Veal Liver Pdt6 (to be Eaten Cold) 

Take 1 pound of calf's liver and 10 ounces 
of fat bacon. Mince these first separately, and 
afterwards together, and season the mixture 
with pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Add 2 
tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, 2 ounces of 
finely minced lean ham, and a moderate-sized 
onion that has been sliced and browned in fat. 
Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and mix with 
them first the beaten yolks, and afterwards the 
well-whisked whites of 2 eggs. Line a mould 
with thin slices of fat bacon, put in the mince, 
place slices of bacon on the top, and bake the 
pate very gradually in a gentle oven. When it 
is done enough it can be easily pierced quite 
through with a skewer. Let it get cold, turn it 
upon a dish, and garnish with parsley. Carve 
it in slices. 

Scalloped Sweetbreads 

After blanching, cut or break the sweetbreads 
into small pieces. Make a rich cream sauce, 
with a pint of hot cream, a level tablespoonful 
of flour, a tablespoonful of butter, and 1 egg; 



284 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

salt and pepper. Mix this with the sweet- 
breadSy and half fill a scallop-dish, sprinkle 
over a layer of buttered bread crumbs, fill the 
dish with the sweetbreads, put a layer of bread 
crumbs on the top, and bake until nicely 
browned. Or fill scallop-shells or paper cases 
with the sweetbreads, cover with buttered 
crumbs, and brown in a hot oven. 

Scalloped Sweetbreads with Mushrooms 

Prepare as in the foregoing recipe, add an 
equal amount of chopped and stewed mush- 
rooms, fill the scallop-dish or shells, cover with 
buttered crumbs, and brown as before. 

Sweetbreads with Spaghetti or Macaroni 

and Tomatoes 

Blanch the sweetbreads, lard them, and bake 
until nicely browned, basting with a little rich 
brown stock. Mix boiled spaghetti with a rich 
cream sauce, or use spaghetti or macaroni that 
has been baked with cheese the day previous. 
Heat it very hot and make it into a flattened 
mound in the centre of a hot platter, and ar- 
range the hot sweetbreads on the top, pouring 
over any sauce that may be in the pan. Sur- 
round the whole with stuffed and baked toma- 
toes. 

This is excellent as a piece de resistance for 
^ an informal lunch or Sunday evening supper, 



MEATS 285 

as it can nearly all be made ready beforehand. 
The tomatoes could be all prepared for the fill- 
ing in the morning and placed in the ref rigera- 
tor, and the crumbs seasoned and mixed ready 
in another bowl. The sweetbreads should be 
blanched and larded, and these also put in the 
refrigerator. The spaghetti could be either 
boiled in the morning or baked the day before 
— a larger amount than needed for dinner beiQg 
cooked and the remainder saved for the sweet- 
breads. 

Half an hour before the time for the meal 
have the oven hot; if there is a gas range, so 
much the better. Fill the tomatoes and put 
them in to bake ; put the prepared sweetbreads 
also in the oven, which should be quite hot. 
While these are baking, set the pan containing 
the spaghetti and sauce into the oven, giving it 
just time to get thoroughly heated, or heat the 
macaroni or spaghetti in a saucepan or steamer 
on the top of the range. It then only remains 
to dish them when the tomatoes are done. With 
a tastily made salad, nut sandwiches or thin 
slices of bread and butter, which could also be 
prepared beforehand and put in the refrigera- 
tor, some fruit and cake or a made dessert of 
jellied or frozen fruit and tea or coffee, the 
gods and all their friends should be tempted 
to eat. 



286 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

Sweetbreads 

First Boak sweetbreads in cold water for an 
hour or two, changing the water several times* 
Then parboil for five minutes in boiling water 
with a tablespoonful of lemon juice or vinegar, 
and throw into ice water to blanch. Let them 
lie in the ice water five minutes, then wipe dry, 
and put where they will get perfectly cold and 
firm, having first removed all the fibres and 
pipes possible. They may then be cooked in 
various ways and make a most delicious addi- 
tion to a lunch or informal supper, or may be 
served as an entree either by themselves or with 
mushrooms, tomatoes, asparagus tips, maca- 
roni, etc. 

Plain Broiled Sweetbreads 

After parboiling and blanching, boil gently 
for five minutes ; split the sweetbreads length- 
wise, dust with salt and pepper, rub over with 
a little butter, and broil over clear coals, turn- 
ing often until both sides are a delicate brown. 
Lay them on a hot platter, cover with butter, 
squeeze a little lemon juice over them, and more 
salt and pepper if needed. Or serve with pars- 
ley butter poured over them. 

Broiled Sweetbreads with Tomato Sauce 

After parboiling and blanching the sweet- 
breadSy dust them with salt and pepper ; roll in 



MEATS 287 

beaten egg, then in fine bread crumbs; broil 
over hot coals, or saute in hot butter until a 
golden brown. Have squares or rounds of deli- 
cate, crisp, weU-buttered toast on a hot platter, 
put a portion of sweetbreads on each piece, and 
pour around them a hot tomato sauce. 

Broiled Sweetbreads with Stuffed Tomatoes 

Broil the sweetbreads after crumbing, then 
serve on a hot platter with a circle of stuflfed 
tomatoes around them. A hearty dish for 
lunch or Sunday supper may be made by ar- 
ranging a mound of boiled macaroni in the 
centre of the platter with the sweetbreads on 
top, with the tomatoes as a border. 

For this dish the sweetbreads may be either 
broiled, sauted, or stewed, and the macaroni 
may be cooked the day before and heated in the 
oven while the tomatoes are baking. 

Stewed Sweetbreads 

After blanching, separate the sweetbreads, 
put in a saucepan, and cover with boiling salted 
water; add a little paprika, a tablespoon of 
lemon juice, and a dash of mace. Stew fifteen 
or twenty minutes, add a half cup of rich hot 
cream, and a teaspoonful of flour rubbed 
smooth with 2 teaspoonfuls of butter. Stir 
until the gravy is smooth and thick. Serve 
with points of crisp golden toast. 



288 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

Sweetbread Patties (Vol-au-Vents) 

After the sweetbreads have been parboiled 
and blanched, let them cool and drain. Oat 
them in small pieces, and put them in a sauce- 
pan, with a cupful of rich white stock to 2 good- 
sized sweetbreads; add a tablespoonful of 
butter, the juice of a lemon, a small piece of 
mace, a bit of grated nutmeg, a dash of paprika, 
2 or 3 cloves, and salt to taste. Let the sweet- 
breads simmer in this imtil tender, then lift 
them out and strain the sauce. Beat the yolks 
of 2 eggs with % of a cupful of rich cream. Add 
these slowly to the hot sauce, stirring briskly 
until it is rich and creamy, but do not let it 
boil. 

Add a half glassful of sherry or madeira 
wine ; return the sweetbreads to the sauce, and 
let them get thoroughly hot. Have ready patty 
shells or vol-au-vents of any size desired; fill 
with the sweetbreads and sauce, and serve at 
once. Stewed mushrooms and French fried 
potatoes, or asparagus tips, are nice served 
with these. 

Sweetbread Croquettes 

Cut a cold blanched sweetbread in dice, add 
an equal amount of chopped mushrooms. 
Simmer a few minutes with a half cup of white 
sauce or stock ; let the mixture cool ; add 2 table- 



MEATS 289 

spoonfuls of seasoned bread crumbs; add a 
little paprika, and salt to taste. Make out into 
balls, roll in beaten egg and crumbs, and fry in 
hot fat until delicately browned ; they will not re- 
quire more than ten minutes to cook in the fat. 
Serve with them tomatoes stuffed and baked, 
and potatoes cut in balls with a scoop and fried 
in deep, hot fat until a golden brown. The po- 
tato balls may be served as a border for the 
croquettes, with sprigs of parsley as a garnish. 

Braised or Smothered Sweetbreads 

Soak and blanch the sweetbreads, and lard 
them with strips of salt pork or bacon. Put 
them in a shallow, covered baking-dish; pour 
over them enough rich brown stock to nearly 
cover them ; sprinkle lightly with salt and white 
pepper, add a dash of mace. 

Cover closely, and bake in a moderately hot 
oven for half an hour. 

Serve with macaroni or spaghetti or boiled 
rice. 

Fried Sweetbreads 

Soak the sweetbreads for an hour, plunge 
them into boiling water for five minutes, and 
throw them into cold water till cool. Cut them 
in slices, egg and bread-crumb them, dip them 
in clarified butter, bread them again, and fry 
in plenty of hot fat till they are brightly 



290 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

browned on both sides. Drain them, and then 
dish on toast, pouring cucumber sauce or 
maitre d 'hotel sauce upon them. Time to fry 
the slices, about ten minutes. 

L«rded Sweetbreads h la Financi&re 

Soak 4 sweetbreads, boil them quickly till 
they are firm but not at all hard, cool them, 
then lard them evenly and thickly with thin 
strips of fat bacon. Butter a baking-dish, and 
spread a layer of sliced carrots, onions, and 
celery at the bottom; Lay the sweetbreads 
upon the vegetables, and pour round them as 
much stock as will barely come up to the lard- 
ing. Put them in a sharp oven, and bake until 
done enough, basting them frequently with the 
liquor. When they are done enough, and the 
surface is brightly browned, dish them as fol- 
lows: Put a croustade in a dish, and fill it 
with Toulouse or financiere ragout. Place the 
sweetbreads against the sides of the croustade, 
and garnish the dish as prettily as possible. If 
liked, Toulouse ragout may be used for the 
croustade instead of financiere ragout, and then 
the dish becomes Sweetbread k la Toulouse. 
The croustade may be made as follows: Take 
an oval loaf one day old. Cut off the round 
top, and scoop out the crumb of the loaf, leav- 
ing three-quarters of an inch of bread all round, 



MEATS 291 

and at the bottom. Pare away the crust and 
dip the case into oiled butter. Put it in the 
oven till it begins to harden, then again dip it 
in butter, and place it again in the oven till it 
acquires a little color, when it will be ready for 
use. Time to bake the sweetbreads, about half 
an hour. 

MEAT PIES 

t^ioODEMUS BoFPiN: ** Now, Wei?g, just cast your eye 
along these shelves, and if you see anything you take a 
fancy to — have it down I " 

Sn^AS Wego {promptly): '^Do my eyes deceive me— or 

is that a weal-and-hammer ? '* 

— Oharlks Dickens. 

The meat pie is often a useful adjunct to a 
meal, when the marketman fails to deliver in 
time what was intended for the day's dinner, 
or to make a variety on the advent of unex- 
pected guests. It is also a very useful way of 
using the remnants of cold meat or fowl. 

Chicken pie used to be invariably served on 
Thanksgiving Day in many New England 
families, and memory brings to mind one table 
where it was the larger part of the Thanks- 
giving morning breakfast ! 

Chicken Pie 

For a large pie take 2 nice chickens ; cut them 
at the joints, put them in salted boiling water, 



292 MEAT^ POULTRY. AND GAME 

and parboil until tender. Lift them out and 
cut them up as for a fricassee. Some of the 
larger bones should be taken out. 

Make a good pastry, and line a deep earthen 
baking-dish or ** nappy *' with a rather thin 
layer of the paste. Roll out the remainder, 
spread with butter, sprinkle the butter with 
flour, and roll it up. Roll this out again about 
a half an inch thick, and cut a strip and lay 
around the edge of the dish, first wetting the 
dough in the dish with milk to make it adhere. 
Fill the dish with the parboiled chicken. It is 
a good plan to put a good-sized bone in the 
centre of the dish to raise the top crust from 
the chicken and give more room for the liquor. 
Or a small cup may be inverted in the centre, 
cutting an X in the crust and bringing the 
points up around the sides of the cup to hold . 
the gravy. 

Season the liquor in which the chicken was 
cooked with pepper and more salt if necessary. 
Add a teaspoonful of flour rubbed smooth with 
a little of the liquor. Let this boil up suffi- 
ciently to allow the flour to thicken, pour it over 
the chicken, having enough to nearly cover it. 
Put generous pieces of butter over the top, and 
cover with the paste. Cut slashes in the cover 
to allow the escape of steam, moisten the edges 
of the pastry lining well with milk to ensure 



MEATS 293 

the adhering of the cover, press together and 
trim the edge not too closely, pushing the paste 
np well together, rather thickening it at the 
edges. Put small bits of butter on the top, and 
bake two hours in a moderate oven. 

Beefsteak Pie 

Eump-steak is good for this purpose. 2 
pounds will be sufficient for a half a dozen 
people. Cut the steak into long, narrow strips ; 
lay a strip of fat on each, dust with salt and 
pepper, add a very little shredded onion or 
shallot, and just a suspicion of mace. Dredge 
lightly with flour, and roll each strip. Lay 
these in the bottom of a baking-dish having the 
edge lined with paste; pour in sufficient water 
to cover the^meat, add a little more seasoning 
and a dredging of flour. A few chopped mush- 
rooms or oysters will add greatly to the flavor 
of the pie. Cover with a crust rolled a little 
more than a half-inch thick, slash the top to 
allow the escape of steam, put bits of butter on 
the top, and bake in a moderate oven for two 

hours. 

Chicken Patties 

Pick the meat from a cold chicken, and mince 
it very finely. To every 6 ounces of chicken al- 
low 3 ounces of lean ham also minced, a piece of 
butter about the size of an egg rolled in flour, a 
small teacupful of cream or new milk and the 



2M MEATS, POULTRY^ AND GAME 

same of white stock, 2 pinches of salt, 1 of pep- 
per, % of a small nutmeg grated, the thin rind 
of 14 of a lemon finely grated, and a teaspoon- 
fnl of lemon juice. A few minced mushrooms 
are a great improvement. Put these into a 
saucepan, and stir them gently for ten miautes, 
taking care that they do not burn. Line some 
patty-pans with good crust. Put a piece of 
paper crumpled up or a crust of bread into each 
to support the top while baking, and place a 
cover of crust over it. When suflSciently baked, 
take off the top crust, remove the bread or the 
paper, 3 parts fill the patty with the mixture, 
replace the cover, being careful not to break it, 
and fasten it with white of egg. 

Giblet Pie 

An English Recipe 

The giblets of 1 goose or 2 ducks ; 1 pound of 
tender beefsteak; 2 small onions; thyme and 
parsley; salt and pepper. 

Wash the giblets and put them with the steak, 
cut in pieces, in a stewpan with cold water 
enough to cover, and as soon as the water be- 
gins to boil add the sliced onion and the herbs, 
salt, and pepper. 

Simmer gently for an hour and a half or two 
hours, remove the herbs and let the giblets cool. 
Line the sides of a pie-dish with a good paste. 



M^ATS 295 

lay in the giblets and steak, add more salt and 
pepper if needed, pour over enough of the 
gravy in which the meat was stewed to fill the 
dish about % full. Add bits of butter, and 
cover with the crust. Brush the top with butter 
and bake three-fourths of an hour in a hot oven. 

Mutton Pie 

A very good family pie is made with the re- 
mains of a cold leg, loin, or any other joint of 
mutton from which nice neat slices of rather 
lean meat can be cut. These should be put with 
a good seasoning, in alternate layers with 
thinly sliced potatoes, into a pie-dish, commenc- 
ing at. the bottom with some of the meat, and 
finishing at the top with potatoes. Parsley, 
savory herbs, onion, or shallot, with a little 
mace, white pepper, and salt may be used at 
discretion. A cupful of ^ood gravy from the 
meat should be poured into the pie before the 
crust is put on. Suet is generally used for the 
crust. Time, an hour to bake. 



POULTRY 

Baked Chicken 

Clean and wash the chicken and cover with 
thin slices of cold boiled ham. Bind the ham 
on with fine cotton cord, then lay npon the grat- 
ing of yonr covered roaster; pour a cnpful of 
hot stock over it, scatter parsley and onion juice 
over it ; cover tightly, then cook slowly, allowing 
twenty-five minutes to the pound. Baste three 
times, and when it seems tender by testing with 
a fork, unwrap, and wash with butter; then 
dredge with flour and let it stand in the oven 
until brown. 

Thicken the gravy with browned flour, season, 
and let it come to a boil. 

Fried Chicken 

Singe the chicken, divide into pieces, and cut 
the joints apart. Wash well and dry on a cloth. 
Dredge with salt, pepper, and flour. 

Fry 6 slices of fat salt pork m a large fry- 
ing-pan until they are crisp. When fried, tako 
the pieces out and put a tablespoonful of but- 
ter in the pan, and when the fat is very hot, lay 
the chicken in and fry slowly until tender and a 
nice brown. Transfer the chicken to a hot plat- 

296 



POULTRY 297 

ter and turn off all of the gravy but two table- 
spoonfuls. Thicken this with 2 tablespoonfuls 
of flour, and when well mixed together pour in 
2 cups of fresh milk ; season with salt and pep- 
per and a teaspoonful of finely minced parsley. 
Boil for one minute, then pour into a gravy- 
boat. 

Baked Fried Chicken 

Clean and wash young chickens, cut at every 
joint, and divide the breast into 2 pieces. Lay 
in salad-oil and lemon juice for half an hour; 
drain, roll in beaten egg, then in cracker crumbs. 
Lay upon the grating of your covered roaster, 
pour a little gravy in the underneath part, and 
cover closely. Cook for three-quarters of an 
hour, basting frequently with butter and gravy. 
Uncover, and brown. Garnish with parsley. 

Scalloped Chicken 

Boil 1 young chicken in salted water until 
tender. When cold, remove the skin and cut 
the meat into small pieces. Melt 1 heaping 
tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan, add 2 
tablespoonfuls of flour, and when well mixed 
together add 2 cupfuls of rich milk and season 
with salt and a dash of pepper. Cook for about 
five minutes. Butter a pudding-dish, put a 
layer of the sauce in the bottom, then a layer of 
fine bread crumbs, then the chicken, then some 



298 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

sliced mushroomB. Bepeat the process ontil the 
dish is filled. Cover the tops with half a cupful 
of bread crumbs, moistened with butter, and 
bake for about twenty minutes in a hot oven. 
Send to the table in the dish it was cooked in. 

Pressed Chicken 

Clean as usual ; divide the breast and the back 
into 2 pieces and break apart all of the joints. 
Put the pieces in a kettle with just enough water 
to cook without scorching. Cover tightly and 
cook until the meat falls from the bones and 
the broth has nearly boiled away. Season with 
salt, and pepper ; remove from the fire, take out 
the chicken, and return the kettle, with the 
broth, to the fire; chop the chicken into small 
pieces ; season well, pour in the broth, mix thor- 
oughly together, then turn into a mould or 
bread-tin. 

This will jelly when cold and can be sliced for 
the table. 

Chicken Terrapin 

Chop 1 cold roasted chicken fine. Put 3 table- 
spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan with 2 of flour, 
and when well blended add a cupful of cream. 
Cook until it thickens, then add the chopped 
chicken and a parboiled sweetbread. Season 
with salt and pepper and let it simmer slowly 
for fifteen minutes. When ready to serve, add 



POULTRY 2» 

the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, mixed with 2 
tablespoonfuls of milk, and 1 wineglassful of 
sherry. Garnish with hot boiled rice laid 
around the stew. 

Chicken Curry 

Clean and cat np the chicken and place it in 
a saucepan with boiling water, 2 onions, and a 
bouquet of herbs. Cover, and cook until ten- 
der ; season with salt and pepper. Melt 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan with 2 of flour. 
Cook two minutes ; add half a tablespoonf ul of 
curry powder and cook two minutes longer. 
Add the strained broth and cook until smooth. 
Arrange the chicken on a hot platter and gar- 
nish with boiled rice. 

Fricasseed Chicken 

Clean and wash the chicken, break every joint 
apart and divide the breast and back in 2 pieces 
each. Place the pieces in a pot; add a little 
water, some minced onion, parsley, and chopped 
fat pork. Cover closely, and place over a slow 
fire until tender. Lift the meat out with a split 
spoon, placing the white meat at one end of the 
platter and the dark at the other end. Place the 
platter in an open oven or over hot water while 
you make the gravy. To do this, pour the 
gravy into a bowl and set in iced water until the 
fat rises. Skim, return to the pot, and add a 



300 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

cupful of hot milk which has been thickened 
with a tablespoonful of butter rubbed into 1 of 
flour. Add a pinch of soda, and let it boil for 
one minute. Now pour the gravy into a dish 
containing 2 well-beaten eggs, and when thor- 
oughly blended pour over the chidden. 

Chicken en Casserole 

Truss a young, plump chicken as for roasting. 
Put 2 tablespoonfuls of butter into a frying- 
pan, and when hot add a bay leaf, a sliced car- 
rot and onion, and a sprig of thyme. Let the 
vegetables cook until they become slightly 
browned, then put them into a casserole with 
the chicken; pour in a pint of well-seasoned 
stock ; cover, and cook for forty-five minutes in 
a hot oven. At the end of that time drop in a 
dozen potato balls and a dozen mushrooms; 
season to taste, uncover, and set in the oven to 
brown. Sprinkle with minced parsley before 
serving, and send to the table in the casserole. 

A Pilau of Chicken 

Wash a broiler or young plump chicken; 
joint, and lay in a marinade of salad-oil and 
lemon juice for half an hour. Fry a sliced 
onion in 3 tablespoonfuls of butter. Drain the 
chicken, but do not wipe the pieces, and when 
the onion has begun to brown, lay the chicken 



POULTRY 301 

in the pan and fry for ten minutes, taming of- 
ten. Empty the contents of the frying-pan into 
a broad-bottomed pot ; ponr in 1 cupful of weak 
stock and 1 of strained tomato juice. Cook 
gently until the chicken is tender, then take it 
up and set in the oven to keep warm. Betum 
the gravy to the fire and add three-quarters of a 
cupful of rice which has soaked in cold water 
for an hour. Cook fast until the rice is soft, 
then put the chicken back into the pot, and when 
thoroughly mixed together heap upon a heated 
platter and sprinkle Parmesan cheese over the 
top. 

Chicken Stuffed with Oysters 

Clean and wash the chicken, then fill the body 
with small oysters which have been dipped in 
salted and peppered melted butter. Sew up in 
netting or cheesecloth and boil, allowing about 
twenty-five minutes to the pound. Unwrap, 
wash with butter and lemon juice, and pour a 
few spoonfuls of oyster sauce over them, the 
rest into a boat. 

Chicken Timbales 

Put a cupful of uncooked white meat through 
a meat-grinder, then rub to a paste with a 
wooden spoon. Put a cupful of milk and 1 of 
bread crumbs into a saucepan and cut until 
smooth. Bemove from the fire, and when it is 



attt MEATS^ POULTRY, AND GAME 

cold turn over the chickeiiy rubbing all the time. 
Add a teaspoonf ul of salt, a saltspoonfid of pep- 
per, and 5 tablespoonfols of cream. Press 
through a sieve, and add gradually the well- 
beaten whites of 5 eggs; put the nuxture into 
small greased timbale-moulds ; stand the moulds 
in a pan of hot water, cover with oiled paper, 
and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate 
oven. Serve with plain cream sauce and peas. 

Roast Turkey 

Singe and wipe the turkey with a doth ; draw 
it, preserving the liver and gizzard, but be care- 
ful not to break the gall-bag. Wash well, having 

s 

a little soda dissolved in the water. Fill the 
body with bread, oyster, or chestnut stuflSng. 
Sew up the body and the neck ; bind the wings 
and legs snugly to the body, and if the turkey 
is scrawny lay thin slices of fat salt pork on the 
breast. Now lay it on the grating of your cov- 
ered roaster ; pour in a cupful of boiling water, 
then cover and bake for two or three hours, ao- 
cording to the size of the fowl. When nearly 
done, remove the cover and wash with butter, 
then dredge with flour and set in the oven to 
brown. Dish the turkey on a heated platter, 
and set in the open oven to keep warm while 
you. make the gravy. Thicken the contents of 
the dripping-pan with a tablespoonful of 



POULTRY 303 

browned floor, season with salt and pepper, and 
add the finely chopped giblets. Boil one minute, 
then pour into a gravy-boat. 

Serve cranberry-sauce with turkey if pos- 
sible. 

Bread Stuffins for Turkey 

To have good dressing you must have light 
bread. Slice the bread in thick slices, then put 
in the oven to dry. Grate with a coarse grater, 
and to every cupful of crumbs allow a table- 
spoonful of minced pork. Season with salt, 
pepper and sage, and moisten very slightly with 
milk. 

Oyster Stufflns 

Make a stuflBng of bread crumbs, season with 
parsley, thyme, and onion juice, and moisten 
with melted butter. Add 2 dozen small chopped 
oysters. 

Chestnut Stuffins 

Boil 1 quart of chestnuts, shell and peel them. 
Mash them smooth, and rub into them 2 table- 
spoonfuls of soft butter. Season with salt and 
white pepper, and stuff the turkey with this as 
you would with any other kind of dressing. 

Chicken-and-Rice Puddins 

Cut the meat from the remains of a cold fowl, 
and take half its weight in ham. Free it from 



304 MEAT3, POULTRY* AND GAME 

skin and gristle, and pound it in a mortar, with 
a little salt, white pepper, and ponnded mace. 
To 1 pound of fowl, and half a pound of ham, 
allow a cupful of rice. Boil this in some nicely 
flavored stock till it is sufficiently cooked, then 
drain it, and add to it a cupful of new milk 
and the pounded meat. Stir these well to- 
gether. 

Put the mixture into a buttered mould, dredge 
a little flour over the top, tie it in a floured cloth, 
and boil it for an hour, taking care that the 
water in the saucepan does not reach as high as 
the top of the mould. Serve with mushroom or 
oyster sauce. Sufficient for six persons. 

Roasted Capon with Cream Stuffins 

Truss a capon for roasting. Boil the liver, 
and mince it as finely as possible. Pour a little 
cream over 1 cupful of finely grated bread 
crumbs. Let them soak for half an hour. 
Shred finely 4 ounces of suet, 1 teaspoonful of 
scalded parsley, and 4 or 5 button mushrooms 
cut small and fried. Mix these well together 
with a little pepper and salt, and add the yolks 
of 2 eggs. Stuff the capon with the mixture, 
and roast in a hot oven, basting continually. 
Serve with sauce flavored with chopped gher- 
kins. Time to roast, one hour. Sufficient foe 
four or five persons. 



POULTRY 305 

R6tl de Pauvre Homme 

Take a fine pullet or capon, the fattest pro- 
curable. Make a force-meat, consisting of some 
finely chopped sausage meat, raw veal, and lean 
ham, cock's kidneys and combs, dried artichoke 
bottoms, mushrooms, tru£3es, some shred pars- 
ley, a little lemon thyme and sweet basil, 1 
anchovy washed, boned, and chopped fine — ^the 
whole chopped and well mixed together, sea- 
soned with salt, pepper, and a little grated nut- 
meg, with a good lump of fresh butter well in- 
corporated with it. With this force-meat fill the 
fowl by the vent, which sew up afterwards. 
Saturate with butter or olive-oil three or four 
sheets of writing-paper, and carefully dredge 
the fowl with flour. Envelop the bird in the 
paper two layers thick, and cover the whole with 
another layer slightly buttered. Bury the bird 
thus prepared in hot wood-ashes until it is 
cooked, or put it in a range oven, covered with 
a dish, which must exclude the air from beneath. 

Kuwab Fowl 

Put 4 cloves, 1 drachm of pounded ginger, 1 
drachm of cayenne, and half an ounce of cori- 
ander-seed in a mortar. Pound these until quite 
smooth, and mix with them*3 small onions, finely 
\ninced. Divide a small chicken into neat 
joints; rub them inside and out with the mix- 



3M MBATSr POULTRY, AIS!D GAME 

ture, and put them into a frying-pan, with 14 of 
a pound of sweet butter. Turn them about con- 
stantly, and when they are brightly browned all 
over, and sufficiently cooked, squeeze over them 
the strained juice of 1 lemon, and serve as hot 
as possible. Time to cook, half an hour. SuBor 
cient for two or three persons. 

Indian Burdwan 

A very savory and highly approved Indian 
dish. The joints of a parboiled fowl are gener- 
ally used for this dish, but if necessary the re- 
mains of chicken or fowls that have been served 
before, and even rabbit, veal, or lamb may be 
warmed up in the sauce, for which the following 
is the recipe : Peel and chop very finely 4 shal- 
lots and 1 onion. Put them into a stewpan with 
a small cup of good stock, 1 tablespoonf ul of the 
essence of anchovies, a little cayenne, and 1 
ounce of butter rolled in flour. Stir over the 
fire until the sauce is ready to boil, then put it 
aside to simmer till the onions are done, adding 
a small cupful of mixed Indian pickles, cut into 
less than ^-inch pieces, 1 tablespoonful of chili 
vinegar, and 1 or 2 glasses of wine, madeira 
or sherry. Simmer the sauce to make the 
pickles tender, and pour in the wine when the 
fowl is ready to be stewed. Skin and lay the 
fowl in neat pieces into the stewpan with the 



POULTRY 307 

sauce^ and if the fowl has been only parboiled, 
stew it gently for fifteen or twenty minutes, but 
for a thoroughly cooked fowl serve as soon as 
it is ready to boil, with the juice of a fresh 
lime. Bice is sometimes served with Burdwan 
as with curry. 



GAME 

Duck shonid be cooked quickly to be well 
flavored; they shonid be served in a hot dish, 
and the plates shonid also be heated and ready 
before the dncks are done. 

Roasted Canvas-back Duck 

Dress a good fat dnck, singe it and wipe well ; 
pnt a pinch of salt inside ; mn in the head from 
the end to the back ; truss the duck, and lay in 
a roasting-pan. Sprinkle with salt, and cook 
in a fairly quick oven for twenty minutes if 
liked rare, — for thirty if preferred well done. 
Place on a well-heated dish; untruss, and pour 
in 2 tablespoonfuls of boiling hot white broth, 
and serve with a garnish of slices of hot fried 
hominy and a dish of currant jelly. These di- 
rections apply equally well to red-head and mal- 
lard ducks. 

Broiled Canvas-back Duck 

After the duck has been dressed, singed, and 
wiped thoroughly, split it through the back, but 
without completely separating the pieces. 

Season with 1 saltspoonful of salt, and ^ 

aoa 



GAME 3W 

saltspoonful of pepper, and roll the duck well in 
1 tablespoonfnl of olive-oil. 

Broil for ten minutes on each side, or longer 
if liked well done. Place it on a hot dish and 
cover with y2 gill of maitre d 'hotel butter sauce, 
add a bunch of watercress for decoration, and 
serve very hot. 

Buddy ducks are cooked in the same way; 
melted butter may be substituted for the oil. 

Roast Ruddy Duck 

Have a fat duck dressed, singed, and wiped 
carefully; sprinkle a little salt inside, and draw 
the head through the opening at the base of the 
neck ; sprinkle the outside with salt, and lay in a 
roasting-pan ; bake in a moderately quick oven 
for fifteen minutes, and longer if desired well 
done. Take it up and untruss, place it on a hot 
dish and pour inside a little hot white broth. 
Cut quickly in slices, and serve with a garnish 
of fried hominy and currant jelly. 

Broiled Teal Duck 

Have 3 fat teal prepared for cooking, and 
take off the heads. Split into halves without 
completely dividing, and season with a salt- 
spoonful of salt, half as much pepper, and a 
tablespoonfnl of olive-oil. Boll them well in 
the oil and broil over a clear but not too hot 
fire^ for ten minutes on each side. 



510 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

Have ready in a hot dish half a dozen sUcbb 
of toast ; lay half a teal on each slice, and cover 
with half a gill of maitre d 'hotel butter sauce. 
Serve hot, with a garnish of watercress. 

Roast Teal 

Prepare for cooking as many ducks as de- 
siredy and cut off heads and feet. Put inside 
each bird a saltspoonf ul each of salt and pepper, 
and a tablespoonful of butter. 

Put them in a dripping-pan with an onion, 
bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes, basting 
four or five times; add more butter if needed. 
While they are cooking, chop an onion fine, and 
put it in a tablespoonful of butter over the fire ; 
when the butter browns, add a tablespoonful of 
flour; stir till smooth; when brown, pour in a 
pint of boiling water and port wine in equal 
parts; add a teaspoonful of salt and a salt- 
spoonful pepper, and a dash of grated nutmeg ; 
stir till the sauce boils, and pour in the dripping 
from the roasted birds. Season the birds with 
salt, and serve on a hot dish. 

Salmi of Duck 

Take the giblets of a duck, stew them gently 
in veal gravy seasoned with cayenne, 3 finely 
shred shallots, and some pepper and salt. 
Boast the duck, cut it up, and lay it in a stew- 
pan with the gravy. Simmer till quite hot, then 



GAME 3U 

squeeze a bitter orange into the sance, strain it 
over the duck, and send to table hot. More 
seasoning may be added for the English palate. 
Salmis are great favorites with French epi- 
cures; they are a species of moist devil, suffi- 
ciently piquant, as a rule, to please a French- 
man's taste. Time: twenty minutes to roast; 
twenty minutes to stew. Sufficient for four or 
five persons. 

Roast Goose 

A roast goose is generally filled with sage- 
and-onion stuffing. The way in which this is 
made must depend upon the taste of those who 
have to eat it. If a strong flavor of onion is 
liked, the onions should be chopped raw. If 
this is not the case, they should be boiled in 1, 2, 
or 3 waters, and mixed with a smaller or 
larger proportion of bread crumbs. It should 
be remembered, when bread crumbs are used, 
room should be allowed for swelling. Truss the 
goose firmly, tie the openings securely, put into 
a hot oven, and baste it plentifully until done 
enough. A goose is both unwholesome and un- 
palatable if insufficiently cooked. Take it up, 
remove the skewers and fastenings, pour a little 
gravy into it, and send some good gravy and 
either apple or tomato sauce to table with it. 
Garnish with lemon. Time, from an hour and 
a half to two hours and a half. 



312 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

Goose in Jelly» or Duck in Jelly 

Put the goose in a deep stewpan, and barely 
cover it with clean stock, or water. Put with 
it 1 dessertspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of 
pepper, 2 large onions, 2 bay leaves, 2 or 3 
sprigs of lemon thyme and sweet basil, with a 
small piece of tarragon. Put the cover on the 
saucepan, and simmer gently, until the meat 
parts easily fall from the bones. Take out the 
goose, drain it from the gravy, remove the 
bones, which may be returned to the saucepan 
and boiled a little longer, and cut the meat into 
convenient-sized pieces. If the gravy requires 
it, add a little more pepper and salt. SMm off 
the fat, strain it through a jelly-bag, and mix 
with an ounce of good gelatine, which has been 
soaked in cold water for half an hour or more. 
Put a little of the jelly into the bottom of the 
mould. Let it set, then put in any pretty orna- 
mental devices, such as hard-boiled eggs, sliced 
beetroot, pickles, etc.; pour a little more jelly 
over these, and, when it is stiff, put in the pieces 
of meat, leaving room for the jelly to flow be- 
tween them. Let the dish remain until the next 
day, then turn out, and garnish according to 
taste. Time to simmer the goose, two hours, or 
a little more. Sufficient for a breakfast, lunch- 
eon, or supper dish. A couple of ducks may be 
prepared in this way instead of a goose* 



GAME 3)3 

PAU of Foles Gras 

These pasties, so highly esteemed by epicures, 
are made at Strasburg, and thence exported to 
various parts. They are prepared from the 
livers of geese, which have been tied down for 
three or four weeks to prevent them moving, 
and forcibly compelled to swallow, at intervals, 
a certain amount of fattening food. When they 
have become so fat that they would die in a 
short time, they are killed, and their livers, 
which have become very rich, fat, and pale dur- 
ing the process, are used for the above purpose. 
These pates are very expensive. A good imita- 
tion of them may be made without subjecting 
the unfortunate geese to the cruelties described, 
by following the directions here given. Take 
the livers from 3 fine fat geese, such as are ordi- 
narily brought to market, and in drawing the 
birds be careful not to break the gall-bag, as the 
contents would impart a bitter taste to the 
livers. Carefully remove any yellow spots there 
may be upon them, and lay the livers in milk for 
six or eight hours to whiten ; cut them in halves, 
and put 3 halves aside for force-meat. Soak, 
wash, and scrub, and peel % of a pound of truf- 
fles, carefully preserving the cuttings. Slice 
Va of them into narrow strips, like lardoons, 
and stick them into the remainder of the livers 
% of an inch apart ; sprinkle over them a little 



314 MEATS^ POULTRY^ AND GAME 



* pepper, salt, and spice, and pnt them in a cool 
place until the force-meat is made. Mince finely, 
first separately, and afterwards together, 1 
pound of fresh bacon, Va of the truffles, the 
halves of the livers that were put away for the 
pmrpose, 2 shallots, and 8 or 10 button mush- 
rooms ; season the mixture with plenty of pep- 
per and salt, 2 or 3 grates of nutmeg, and ^ 
saltspoonful of powdered marjoram, and keep 
chopping until it is quite smooth. Make the 
paste according to the directions given in paste 
for raised pies. Cover the bottom of the pie 
with thin rashers of ham, fat and lean together; 
spread evenly on these ^ of the force-meat, then 
put in the 3 livers, with the slices of truffle stuck 
in them, and afterwards the remainder of the 
force-meat. Intersperse amongst the contents 
of the pie the remaining ^ of a pound of truf- 
fles, and cover the whole with 2 or 3 more 
slices of ham or bacon. Put the cover on the 
pie, ornament as fancy dictates, brush it over 
with beaten egg, make a hole in the centre for 
the steam to escape, and bake in a moderate 
oven. Time to bake, two hours or more. Suffi- 
cient for a dozen persons. 

Braised Hare 

Stuff the hare with a suitable force-meat. 
Sew it up securely, and lay slices of bacon on it» 



GAME 3(5 

put it into a braiBing-pan^ with 2 finely minced 
shallotSy a scraped carrot, 4 button mush- 
rooms, or, in place of these, 1 tablespoonful of 
mushroom catsup, and 1 pint of good stock. 
Place 3 ounces of butter on the hare, put the lid 
on the pan, and simmer gently for three hours 
or more. Strain the gravy, thicken it with a 
dessertspoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with a 
little cold water ; add 1 glassful of sherry, ma- 
deira, or claret; simmer a few minutes longer, 
and serve. Send red currant jelly to table with 
the hare. Sufficient for six or eight persons. 

Hare Pepper (German, Haasen Pfeffer) 

Cut the hare into small convenient-sized 
joints. Fry these in hot butter until nicely 
browned, and with them 1 onion, sliced, and 3 
ounces of bacon, cut into dice. Take out the 
hare, etc., while you brown 2 tablespoonfuls of 
flour in the butter. Add gradually 1^^ pints of 
water or stock, and, when it is smoothly mixed, 
put in the pieces of hare, 6 or 8 peppercorns, 
the rind of ^ lemon, 4 or 5 cloves, and the 
gravy from the dish in which the hare lay. 
Sinmier gently for an hour or more. Put the 
pieces of hare into a dish, strain the gravy over 
them, and garnish with sliced lemon. When the 
hindmost part of the hare has been already 
served, the inferior joints are excellent cooked 



316 MEATS» POULTRY, AND GAiyiB 

thus. The head should be split in two, and the 
liver cut into 2 or 3 pieces. Sufficient for three 
or four persons. 

Belgian Hare» Stuffed and Roasted 

First singe and wipe the hare carefully. 
Then put into it a chestnut stuffing which has 
been prepared beforehand. Sew it up and put 
into the roasting-pan. Add to it 1 teaspoonful 
of pepper and about y^ cupful of stock. Put it 
into a quick oven and baste every ten minutes. 
Time for baking, one hour and a half. The 
hare should frequently be turned while in the 
oven. Currant or guava jelly is nice to serve 
with this dish. The vegetables may be peas or 
asparagus tips. 

Baked Partridse ik l*ltalienne) 

Pluck and truss a brace of partridges as if 
for roasting, and put into each bird a f orce-mc at 
made as follows : Grate y^, ounce of stale bread 
into very fine crumbs. Season these with salt 
and white pepper, and % dozen grates of nut- 
meg ; work in with the fingers 1 ounce of butter, 
and add 1 teaspoonful of finely minced parsley, 
and 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Dip 2 sheets 
of note-paper into some pure salad-oil; peel, 
mince finely, and mix thoroughly 3 good-sized 
mushrooms, 1 moderate-sized carrot, 1 small 
onion, 2 tablespoonfuls of parsley leaves, and 



GAME 3t7 

^2 dozen leaves of thyme, with 2 or 3 truffles, if 
these are obtainable. Divide the minced vege- 
tables into 2 equal portions, and spread them 
upon the paper, lay the partridges upon them, 
and cover the breasts with fat bacon, tied se- 
curely round with twine, and fasten the paper. 
Lay the birds side by side, breasts uppermost, 
in a deep pan, cover the partridges closely, bake 
in a good oven, and baste once or twice during 
the process. When they are done enough, take 
off the paper and the bacon, put the birds on a 
hot dish, and pour over them a sauce made as 
follows: Put % a pint of good stock into a 
saucepan, with an onion, the trimmings of the 
mushrooms and truffles, a slice of carrot, and a 
little salt and pepper if required. Boil quickly 
for half an hour, then strain the sauce, thicken 
it with 1 dessertspoonful of flour, add a dessert- 
spoonful of browning, 2 tablespoonf uls of claret, 
and the minced vegetables which covered the 
partridges ; boil up once, and serve. Time, from 
thirty to forty minutes to bake the birds, if of 
moderate size. 

Roast Plover 

Pluck a brace of plovers without drawing 
them, and wipe them well outside with a damp 
cloth. Truss them with the legs close to the 
body, and the feet pressing upon the thighs; 



3f 8 MEATS» POULTRY, AND GAME 

bring the head rotmd under the wing. Put them 
into a hot oven. Lay in the pan slices of toast, 
1 slice for each bird, first moistening it in good 
gravy, and baste the plovers liberally. A few 
minntes before they are done dredge a little 
flour over them, and let them be nicely frothed. 
Serve npon the toast. A little melted butter 
may be sent to table in a tureen. Time to roast 
the birds, fifteen to twenty minutes. Sufficient 
for two persons. 

PltEeon Stuffed and Roasted (German Method) 

Pluck and draw 2 young freshly killed 
pigeons. Open, scald, and clean the gizzard, 
and mince it with the liver and heart, very 
finely. Mix with the mince the crumb of a roll 
which has been soaked in cold milk and pressed 
dry, and add a little salt and cayenne, a shallot 
chopped small, and a tablespoonful of shred 
parsley. If the flavor of the onion and the 
parsley is objected to, a little bacon and a pinch 
of powdered mace may be substituted for them. 
Bind the force-meat together with yolk of eg^, 
and fill the crop with it between the flesh and 
the neck. The skin must be cut and raised 
carefully with the fingers, and then sewn or tied 
securely with thread. Dip the pigeons into 
butter, dredge well with flour, and season with 
pepper and salt. Cover them entirely with 



GAME 319 

thin slices of fat bacon, put them into a stew- 
pan, and turn them frequently until they are 
brightly browned all over. Pour half a cupful 
of boiling water upon them, cover the saucepan 
closely, and let them steam until done enough. 
Serve on a hot dish, with the sauce round them. 
Time, about an hour to steam the birds. Suffi- 
cient for two persons. 

Roast Quail 

Draw the birds or not, according to taste. 
Truss them firmly, and tie over the breasts a 
vine-leaf covered with a slice of fat bacon. 
Boast in a hot oven and baste well. When done 
enough brush the bacon over with glaze, and 
serve the birds on a hot dish; garnish with 
watercresses. Pour good brown gravy round 
but not over the quails. Serve on toast. Time 
to roast the quails, fifteen to twenty minutes. 
Sufficient, two for a dish. 

Trussing: of Quail 

Pluck, draw, and singe the quail. Cut off 

the neck close to the back, and the wings at the 

first pinion. Truss the legs close to the body, 

and pass a skewer through the pinions and 

thighs. 

Broiled Pheasant 

Pick, draw, and singe the pheasant, and 
divide it neatly into joints. Fry these in a 



^0 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

little fat until they are equally and lightly 
browned all over. Drain them well, season 
with salt and cayenne, and dip them into egg 
and bread crumbs. Broil over a clear fire, and 
serve on a hot dish, with brown sauce, mush- 
room sauce, or piquant sauce, as an accompani- 
ment. The remains of a cold roast pheasant 
may be treated in this way. Time to broil, 
about ten minutes. Sufficient for three or four 
persons. 

Snipe (Cooked German Fashion) 

Pluck the birds, skin the head, and remove 
the eyes. Singe them, and cut oS the claws; 
twist the legs, disjointing them, and so bring 
the feet close to the thighs, and put the long 
beak through these as a skewer. The position 
will indicate how the breast may be kept thrown 
up by passing twine round the joints and lower 
part of the body, to tie at the back. Put them 
in a stewpan just large enough to hold them 
with butter enough to keep them basted, turn- 
ing as they are done on one side till they are 
tinged all over. About twenty minutes by a 
brisk heat will cook them. Toast slices of 
bread, pour on these the butter they were 
cooked in, and serve the birds on them. Dressed 
in this way, they are not drawn before the 
trussing. 



GAME 321 

Roast Grouse 

Pluck the birds delicately, being careful not 
to tear the skin. Draw them, and wipe with 
a soft cloth, but do not wash them. Cut off the 
heads, and truss them like fowls. Put them 
into a hot oven, and baste them almost unceas- 
ingly. About ten minutes before they are 
taken up, butter a slice of toast, half an inch 
thick, lay it in the pan under them, and serve 
the bird upon this. Send brown sauce and 
bread sauce to table with them, and browned 
bread crumbs on a dish. The gravy should be 
slightly flavored, or it will overpower that of 
the bird. Time, about half an hour. Suffi- 
cient, a brace for four or five persons. 

Roast Venison (a German Recipe) 

Wash and wipe the venison, then beat it 
well. Flay off the skin. Take bacon-strips 
rather more than two inches long, and lard all 
over the fleshy parts. Boast the meat, basting 
constantly; use sour cream or butter and milk 
for the purpose. Send to table with a sauce 
made by adding water to the bastings, skim- 
ming and straining, and adding pepper, salt, 
and lemon juice. 

Broiled Venison Steaks 

Cut the steaks an inch thick from the leg or 
the loin of venison. Make the gridiron hot, rub 



322 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

the bars with a little Biiet^ and place the steaks 
upon it over a clear fire. Turn them every two 
minutes to preserve the gravy. Make the 
steak-dish very hot; put on it for each pound 
of venison an ounce of butter, a tablespoonful 
of liquid red-currant jelly, a tablespoonful of 
wine, or, as a substitute, boiling stock or water, 
and a little pepi)er and salt. Turn the broiled 
steaks in the sauce once or twice, and serve very 
hot. By way of variety, the butter only may 
be put into the dish under the steaks, and 
stewed mushrooms may be served with the 
venison; or thin slices of lemon may be laid on 
the steaks for the last two or three minutes 
that they are being broiled, and then served 
with them. Time, from twenty to twenty-five 
minutes to broil the steaks. 

Roast Woodcock 

Pluck the woodcocks carefully, neck and head 
as well. Do not open them, but truss them 
securely. Eoast in a hot oven, flour them, and 
baste liberally with dripping or butter. Dish 
them with a piece of toast imder each, and gar- 
nish with watercresses. Send melted butter 
or orange gravy to table in a tureen. It is an 
improvement to cover the woodcocks with 
slices of bacon before putting them down to the 
fire, and, when they are to be had, two or three 



GAME 323 

vine-leaves may be laid under the bacon. Time 
to roast the woodcocks, if liked miderdone, fif- 
teen to twenty minutes; if liked well-dressed, 
twenty-five to thirty minutes. Sufficient, two 
for a dish. 



SAUCES FOR GAME 

Port- Wine Sauce 

Make a rich brown sauce from the liquor in 
which the game was cooked, thickened with 
browned flour and seasoned well. Add a table- 
spoonful of mushroom catsup, a tablespoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce, half an onion minced 
fine, a sprig of parsley, half a bay leaf, a blade 
of mace, and a glass of port wine. Simmer all 
together fifteen or twenty minutes, and strain. 

Oranee Sauce 

Cut an orange peel into narrow strips and 
boil until tender, changing the water after it 
has cooked ten minutes. Cook together 2 
tablespoonfuls of butter and 2 of flour, stirring 
until very smooth. Add half a cupful of stock, 
a little at a time, stirring well, half a cupful of 
currant jelly, half a cupful of any red wine, the 
juice of one large or 2 small oranges, and the 
cooked peel. Season with half a teaspoonful 
of mixed mustard, salt, and cayenne. Simmer 



324 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

all together until thoroughly blended, and serve 

hot. 

Madeira Sauce 

To a pint of brown stock add a tablespoonful 
of finely minced ham, the same amount of finely 
chopped celery, and a teaspoonful of minced 
parsley. Simmer together fifteen minutes. 
Cook together 1 tablespoonful of butter and 1 
of flour, and add to the sauce. Cook until 

« 

thickened and smooth. Add ^ teaspoonful of 
kitchen bouquet, 2 drops of Tabasco, salt to 
taste, and half a glassful of madeira. Strain 
and serve very hot. 

Spanish Sauce 

Brown 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, taking care 
that it does not bum. Add 1 tablespoonful 
each of lean chopped ham, onion, carrot, celery, 
and parsley. Cook all in the butter until 
brown. Stir in 2 tablespoonfuls of flour and 
cook until smooth. Add 2 cupfuls of good 
stock, half a bay leaf, a blade of mace, 2 cloves, 
salt, and a dash of cayenne, or half a saltspoon- 
f ul of paprika. Simmer thirty minutes, strain, 
and serve very hot. 

Aspic Game or Poultry 

Cut up what is left of game or poultry into 
neat joints. Pour some aspic jelly into the bot- 
tom of a mould which has been soaked in cold 



GAME 325 

water; next a layer of stars or diamonds cut 
out of cold boiled white of egg ; a few leaves of 
parsley, and the red part of cold boiled tongue 
dotted here and there. Let it become nearly 
stiff, then arrange the cold game or poultry, 
taking care to leave room for the jelly to run 
in between. Fill the mould with jelly, which 
should be cool when it is poured in. When 
quite stiff, turn on a mould and garnish with 
parsley. Time to stiffen, about twelve hours. 

Shikaree Sauce for Ducks and Wild Fowl 

Mix a teaspoonful of cayenne with a table- 
spoonful of powdered white sugar. Put the 
mixture into a small saucepan, and pour over 
it 2 glassfuls of mushroom ketchup, 2 glassfuls 
of claret, and the strained juice of a large fresh 
lemon. Stir the liquor over the fire till the 
sugar is dissolved and it is quite hot. Serve 
immediately. Sufficient for six or eight per- 
sons. 

Rlcardo Sauce for Game, etc. 

Take any bones of cold roast game that may 
be left from a previous dressing, chop them 
into small pieces, and dredge a tablespoonful 
of flour over them. Slice 4 moderate-sized 
onions, and fry them in butter until they are 
lightly browned without being burnt ; put them 
into a clean saucepan with the bones, half a 



326 MEATS^ POULTRY, AND GAME 

pint of stock made from bones^ a quarter of a 
teaspoonfol of extract of meat, a crust of 
toasted bread, a glassful of sherry, and a little 
pepper and salt. Stir the sauce over the fire 
till done enough, rub it through a fine sieve, 
heat it again, and serve. Time, a quarter of 
an hour to simmer the sauce. Sufficient for six 
or eight persons. 



ENTREES 

Stewed Ox Kidney 

Gut the kidney in thin slices and soak a few 
minutes in Inkewarm water; drain and dry in 
a cloth. Sprinkle the slices with salt and pep- 
per, dredge with flonr, and fry in a tablespoon- 
fnl of butter or nice drippings until slightly 
browned. Add enough water or thin stock to 
cover it, and season with a shallot (chopped), a 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a little 
cayenne, and a dessertspoonful of vinegar. 
Stew gently for an hour or more, until very 
tender. Thicken with a tablespoonful of flour 
rubbed smooth with a tablespoonful of butter, 
and serve very hot. 

Sheep's Tongues in Aspic 

Soak 6 sheep's tongues in cold water for 2 
or 3 hours. Boil until tender enough to remove 
the skin. Put them in a stewpan with 6 cloves, 
a blade of mace, a few sprigs of parsley, half 
a small onion, and a small carrot sliced, a heap- 
ing teaspoonful of salt, and 3 or 4 peppercorns. 
Barely cover with boiling water and cook 
slowly until very tender. Let them cool in the 
liquor. 

327 



328 MEATS, POULTRY^ AND GAME 

When cold take them out and drain them; 
lay them in an oval dish or mould with the root- 
ends, which should be nicely trimmed, together 
in the centre, and the tips toward the ends of 
the dish, which should not be much larger than 
necessary for the tongues. Pour the aspic 
over, letting it just cover the tops, and put 
where it will stiffen and get very cold. To 
serve, turn out on a platter of the same shape, 
garnish with sprigs of parsley or cress alter- 
nated with small round beets boiled and peeled, 
and slice very thin. 

Moulded Meat 

Cut slices of cold roast veal or lamb, and 
slices of lean cooked ham very thin. Lay them 
in a baking-dish of good shape for moulding; 
a layer of meat, then a layer of sliced hard- 
boiled eggs, with a little finely minced parsley, 
salt, and pepper. When the dish is filled, pour 
over a cupful of good, rich stock and bake half 
an hour. When cold turn out on a platter and 
garnish with sprigs of parsley. 

Mexican Chile con Carne 

Cut into dice sufficient cold lamb, beef, or veal 
to make 2^ cupfuls. Season with a table- 
spoonful of onion juice and a teaspoonful of 
grated nutmeg and sweet marjoram, mixed. 
Heat a large, heaping tablespoonful of butter 



ENTR£ES 329 

in a frying-pan, and when it bubbles stir in I1/2 
tablespoonfnls of flour. Stir until smooth and 
thick; then pour in a cupful of soup stock or 
good gravy, add a teaspoonful of salt. Put 
the meat with the seasonings into this sauce 
and add a small, sweet red pepper cut in rings. 
Simmer together five or ten minutes and serve 
very hot on squares of hot buttered toast. 

Beef Toneue Fillets* SauUed 

Cut cold boiled tongue into slices a third of 
an inch thick. Marinate for half an hour in 
Worcestershire sauce. EoU in cracker crumbs, 
then in beaten egg and again in crumbs, and 
saute in butter until well browned. Take them 
out on a hot platter and put into the pan a 
tablespoonful of butter, and when hot stir in a 
tablespoonful of flour; cook until smooth, and 
brown. Add % cupful of stock and V2 cup- 
ful of tomato pulp, or 3 tablespoonfuls of to- 
mato catsup. Let all boil up, stirring briskly, 
and serve with the timbales. 

If a more highly seasoned sauce is liked, add 
a teaspoonful of minced parsley, half a tea- 
spoonful of kitchen bouquet, a few drops of 
onion juice, and celery salt to taste. 

Stuffed Calfs Heart 

Soak 2 hearts in cold water for fifteen min- 
utes to draw the blood out of the veins and 



330 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

arteries; remove as many of these as can be 
done without cutting the heart. Make a stuff- 
ing of 1 cupful of cracker or bread crumbs, and 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter seasoned with salt, 
pepper, a little onion juice, and a teaspoonful 
of powdered mixed sweet herbs, or a teaspoon- 
ful of minced parsley and a teaspoonful of 
kitchen bouquet. Moisten sufficiently with hot 
water ; fill the cavities with the dressing, tie or 
skewer the opening to keep the dressing in, put 
them in a stewing-pan with just enough hot 
water to cover, and cook slowly for an hour or 
more — ^until very tender. Serve either hot or 

cold. 

The Same — Baked 

Prepare the hearts as in the preceding recipe, 
and lard them with strip of salt pork or bacon, 
or lay thin slices of bacon over the top and 
skewer them into place with wooden tooth- 
picks. 

Put them in a baking-pan with a cupful of hot 
water; cover closely, and bake from one to two 
hours, basting often. If there is more of the 
stuffing than will go in the cavities, spread it 
over them. When done, add to the liquor in 
the pan a tablespoonf ul each of butter and flour 
rubbed smoothly together, add 2 or 3 table- 
spoonfuls of tomato catsup, or half a cupful of 
strained tomato pulp. Stir all smoothly to- 



k 



ENTRIES 331 

gether, let it boil np, and pour over the 
hearts. 

A good stuflfing for calf's or beef heart is 
made by taking a link of nice sausage, mixing 
it with an equal quantity of bread crumbs, add- 
ing a scant half cupful of strained tomato pulp, 
and, if necessary, a little hot water, to moisten. 

Chicken Timbales, Supreme 

Chop very finely 1 cupful of white chicken- 
meat, % cupful mushrooms, 6 truffles. Mix all 
together with a tablespoonful of butter; add 
half a teaspoonful of salt, a dash each of 
cayenne, celery salt, and nutmeg or mace. Heat 
all together with half a cupful of rich cream, 
or cream sauce. When thoroughly hot, add a 
lightly beaten egg and stir until it thickens. 

Line buttered timbale moulds with rice boiled 
in milk and mixed with a little butter and 
beaten egg sufficient to moisten it ; fill with the 
mixture, cover with the rice, and bake twenty 
minutes in an oven hot enough to brown the 
tops nicely. 

Turn out carefully on a hot platter, running 
a knife around the edge if ULey do not come out 
easily. Surround them with creamed peas^ or 
serve in individual dishes with the peas« Or 
serve the peas dry around them and pass a 
mushroom sauce. 



A 



332 MEATSr POULTRY, AND GAME 

Lobster Croustades (to Serve Hot) 

Mix 1 cupful of very finely minced lobster- 
meat with a tablespoonful of lemon juice, a 
dash of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of Worces- 
tershire sauce. Mash well together with a 
fork. Add ^/^ cupful of rich cream sauce and 
2 or 3 truffles sliced or cut fine. Mix well. 

Prepare croustades by cutting slices of bread 
rather thick; then, with a cutter, cut into 
squares, rounds, or heart shapes without any 
of the crust. Scoop out the centres, leaving 
the bottom and sides at least a quarter of an 
inch thick. Brush these over or dip them in 
melted butter, and brown quickly in the oven. 

Put the mixture for filling in a saucepan and 
heat thoroughly and fill the cases. Have the 
coral of the lobster mashed fine and seasoned 
with lemon juice and paprika, and sprinkle over 
the tops. 

To Serve Cold 

Prepare the lobster the same as directed, 
substituting mayonnaise for the cream sauce; 
and do not heat it, but, after mixing, put it on 
the ice to get thoroughly chilled, and fill the 
cases just before serving. The mixture may 
thus be made ready in the morning for a 
luncheon or supper. 



EGGS 

To Test Freshness 

'* The following method of determining the 
age of eggs is practised in the markets of Paris. 
Abont six ounces of common cooking salt is put 
into a large glass, which is then filled with 
water. When the salt is in solution an egg is 
dropped into the glass. If the egg is only one 
day old, it immediately sinks to the bottom; 
if any older it does not reach the bottom of the 
glass. If three days old it sinks only just 
below the surface. From five days upward it 
floats ; the older it is the more it protrudes out 
of the water.'* — German Newspaper. 

Boiled Esffs 

Of the different methods of boiling eggs the 
old reliable is to put them in boiling water and 
boil three minutes for a soft boil, five minutes 
for medium, and eight to ten minutes for hard, 
if to be eaten at once. For stuflBng, garnish- 
ing, and for picnic or lunches, twenty to thirty 
minutes' boiling is not too long. 

Another way is to put the eggs in boiling 
water and let them stand on the range for ten 

3?7 



334 MEATS^ POULTRY, AND GAME 

minntesy keeping them covered and very hot, 
but not allowing them to boil. The whites will 
then be thoroughly cooked, but not hard, and it 
is claimed that they are more easily digested 
than when subjected to rapid boiling. 

Still another method is to place them in cold 
water and let them come to a quick boil. As 
soon as the water boils the eggs are soft, and 
the same additional time is required for 
medium- and hard-boiled as by the old method. 
Cooked in this way the whites will not be tough- 
ened as by rapid boiling, and the yolks will be 
of a creamy consistency. 

Poached Effffs 

To poadi an egg scientifically and satisfac- 
torily it should be broken carefully into the 
salted boiling water so that the white will not 
spread and leave the edges ragged. A very 
little vinegar added to the water will help to 
set the egg more quickly and keep its shape. 
An egg-poacher is convenient, as the eggs can 
be easily lifted out of the water, or rings like 
muffin-rings may be set in the pan and keep 
them in uniform shape. 

Cook until they are just firm enough to lift 
out without breaking the yolks, and serve on 
slices of delicately browned, hot buttered toast. 
The toast and eggs should be placed on a hot 



EGGS 335 

dish. Thin slices of delicately crisped bacon 
arranged around the edge of the platter alter- 
nated with sprigs of parsley makes an attract- 
ive and satisfactory breakfast dish. 

Fried Eegrs 
The time-honored way of frying eggs with 
ham or bacon may be varied by using olive oil 
or butter. If ham or bacon is used, remove the 
slices to a hot platter as soon as the ham is 
done or the bacon delicately crisped, and break 
the eggs gently into the hot fat. With a spoon 
dip some of the boiling fat over the top of 
the eggs while they are cooking, and as soon as 
cooked sufficiently lift out with a pancake- 
turner. 

Scrambled Eses 

Beat 4 or 5 eggs just enough to mix the white 
and yolk; add a scant ^ cupful of milk, salt, 
and pepper. Pour into the hot, buttered pan, 
and stir until it begins to set; then stir very 
briskly, mixing and chopping rapidly with a 
large spoon. Cook until the yolk is rather dry, 
continually mixing and chopping. The white 
will be in distinct bits and the yolk of the con- 
sistency of a hard-boiled egg. 

Pour the egg into a hot dish ; dot the top with 
bits of soft butter, and sprinkle over a half -tea- 



336 MEATS» POULTRY, AND GAME 

spoonful of very finely minced parsley. Serve 
immediately. 

Baked Esffs and Bacon 
Allow 2 very thin slices of bacon to each egg. 
Fry the bacon very crisp and place the slices 
by twos on a large, flat, buttered plate. Care- 
fully break an egg over each pair ; bake in a hot 
oven until the eggs are set. Before placing in 
the oven dust the eggs with a little pepper and 
salt, and on taking them out put a small bit of 
butter on the top of each. Serve at once on 
the plate in which they were baked. 

Effss with Cheese 
Cut hard-boiled eggs in half -inch slices. Ar- 
range them on a well-buttered dish that has 
been rubbed with a shallot. Make a sauce of a 
tablespoonful of butter, a scant tablespoonful 
of flour, and three-fourths of a cupful of milk. 
Cook until it thickens, add a tablespoonful of 
grated Parmesan cheese, salt and pepper to 
taste. Pour the sauce over the eggs, sprinkle 
the top with equal quantities of cheese and 
bread crumbs, and set in a hot oven until the 
top is a rich golden brown. Serve in the same 
dish set inside another. 

Duchesse Efffirs 

Boil half a dozen eggs until hard, and put 
them in cold water ; when cool take off the shells 



EGOS ^ 

and cut them lengthwise in quarters. Put 1 
tablespoonful of butter and 1 of flour in a sauce- 
pan over the fire, and stir until thoroughly 
blended, but do not let it brown. Add grad- 
ually 1 cupful of white stock and stir until it 
is smooth and thick. Add 1 tablespoonful of 
vinegar or lemon juice, 1 tablespoonful each of 
capers and chopped parsley, and salt and pep- 
per to taste. Put the eggs in carefully without 
breaking, and simmer gently for five minutes. 
Serve on a hot platter with a border of tri- 
angles of crisp toast, garnished with sprigs of 
parsley. 

Devilled or Stuffed Esffs 

Boil 5 or 6 eggs twenty or thirty minutes. 
When cold remove the shells and cut in halves 
with a sharp knife. Take out the yolks and 
mash them smooth with a teaspoonful each of 
very finely minced onion and parsley, a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, salt and pepper to 
taste, and a little mustard. Fill each half of 
the egg whites with the mixture, rounding each 
one to appear like a whole yolk. Cut a small 
slice from the lower side of the white, just 
enough to make it stand evenly, arrange on a 
platter, and put a border of cress around and 
sprigs of the cress in the spaces between the 
eggs. 

A few drops of onion juice may be substi- 



338 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

tuted for the minced onion, or, if objectionable, 
omitted altogether, and finely chopped pickle 
or very finely minced ham may be used with the 
addition of a few drops of Worcestershire or 
any other hot sauce. 

If they are to be used for a picnic or trav- 
eller's lunch, fill only one-half of the egg whites, 
cover with the other half, and wrap in squares 
of waxed paper, twisting the ends to hold the 
^g in shape. 

Effss Stuffed with Anchovies 

Allow 1 anchovy to each egg. Boil the eggs 
iiard. Cool, remove the shells, and cut in two 
lengthwise. Bone and skin the anchovies, and 
mash or pound them in a mortar with the yolks, 
adding a piece of butter the size of a yolk, a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice, a dash of cayenne, 
a very little grated nutmeg, and salt to taste. 

Fill each half of the whites with this mixture ; 
put them in a baking-tin, and put in a hot oven 
until thoroughly heated. Serve with rounds of 
crisp, well-buttered toast. 

Effffs with Tomatoes 

For 6 medium-sized tomatoes allow 4 eggs. 
Select smooth, firm tomatoes, cut them in 
halves, across, and remove some of the pulp. 
Bake them in a buttered pan. Beat the eggs, 
add a tablespoonful of rich cream, salt and 



BGCjS j» 



pepper. Mix with the tomato pulp, put it in 
a saucepan with a tablespoonful of butter, and 
cook until it thickens, stirring all the time. As 
soon as the tomatoes are done lift them with 
a pancake-turner to rounds of buttered toast, 
fill with the hot mixture, and serve garnished 
with parsley or cress. This makes a hearty 
breakfast or luncheon dish. 

Efires au Beurre Noir 

Prepare half a dozen eggs as if for poach- 
ing, by breaking each one separately into a 
cup. Brown 3 ounces of butter in a large fry- 
ing-pan, and slide the eggs from the cups into 
it ; when they have well set, ladle the burnt but- 
ter over them, and sprinkle salt and some nut- 
meg. Serve on toast wetted with vinegar. 
Time, from two and a half to three and a half 
minutes, according to size of eggs. Sufficient, 
two eggs for each person. 

EsKS and Spinach 

Prepare some spinach by washing very care- 
fully, and then boiling till tender. Put into 
cold water to keep the color good, and when 
quite cold press the water out of it, a little at 
a time, in a towel. Chop it very fine, and put 
it into a stewpan with a lump of butter and 
some rich gravy. Boil it quickly in this, and 



340 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

add pepper. Bait, and nntmeg. Or it may be 
stewed with cream and a little sugar, which is 
a very delicate method. Poach 6 eggs, and trim 
them neatly. Serve them upon the spinach^ 
Time, ten to fifteen minutes to boil; five min- 
utes to stew. Sufficient for three persons. 

Shirred Effffs 

Sprinkle fine bread crumbs over the bottom 
of individual dishes that have been well but- 
tered. Carefully break a fresh egg into each, 
dust with salt and pepper, and cover the tops 
with bread crumbs. Stand the dishes in a pan 
of hot water, put them in a hot oven, and cook 
until the eggs are set. Put bits of butter on 
the top of each, and serve at once. 

Curried Eksts 

Peel 2 or 3 onions and slice them very thin. 
Put them in a saucepan with 2 tablespoonfuls 
of butter, and cook slowly until the onions are 
tender and a golden yellow, taking care that 
they do not scorch. Add a tablespoonful of 
flour and stir until smooth; then add a tea- 
spoonful of curry powder, a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of ground ginger, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, and a very little finely minced parsley. 
Mix all thoroughly, and add a cupful of hot 
stock or water. Stir until it boils, and stand 
the saucepan over another pan of hot water to 



BGGS 341 

keep hot. Have ready 6 hard-boiled eggs. Cut 
them across in slices just thick enough to pre- 
serve the shape. 

In the centre of a hot platter pile a mound 
of boiled rice, arrange the slices of eggs around 
the edge, and pour over the curry sauce. Serve 
at once. 

OMELETS 

Plain Omelet 

3 eggs ; 1 tablespoonf ul cream ; 1 tablespoon- 
ful melted butter; i/4 teaspoonful salt; a dash 
of white pepper or paprika. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs very light; add 
the salt, pepper, and cream. Fold in the whites 
of the eggs, beaten very stiff. Have the butter 
boiling hot in the omelet-pan, which should be 
kept very smooth ; turn the mixture in, and as 
soon as it begins to stiffen, draw it away from 
the edges of the pan or gently slide a knife 
under the centre to allow the uncooked egg to 
reach the hot pan, and cook evenly. As soon 
as the omelet is a rich golden brown, fold over 
and serve at once on a very hot plate. The 
mixture must not stand after the whites of the 
eggs are folded in. The secret of a light, fluffy 
omelet is in making and cooking quickly. This 
quantity is for two people. 

Double the above quantity may be made in 



M2 MEATS, POULTRY, AND GAME 

one omelet, but if a larger amount is necessary, 
it is better to make two or three omelets rather 
than attempt cooking the whole quantity in one. 
Six eggs should be the limit. 

Cheese Omelet 

Follow the directions for plain omelet, and 
after it begins to stiffen sprinkle over the top 
2 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. Fold over 
and serve. 

Ham Omelet 

Proceed as with plain omelet, and after pour- 
ing it in the pan, sprinkle over 2 tablespoonfuls 
of finely minced ham to which has been added 
a little minced parsley. Or the ham may be 
added to the yolks of the eggs before folding 
in the whites. Garnish with sprigs of parsley. 
Five or six minutes should be sufficient for the 
cooking. 

Asparaffus Omelet 

To a plain omelet add young asparagus tips 

that have been cooked until tender and seasoned 
with salt and pepper. Have them hot, and 
when the omelet is ready to serve, place them 
across it and fold them in. Serve quickly. 

Green Corn Omelet 

Grate or cut from the cob enough young 
sweet corn to make a cupful. Put in a sauce- 



EGGS 343 

pan with as little milk as will cover it, and stew 
gently five or six nunntes. Add this to the 
yolks of 4 or 5 eggs, seasoning with salt and 
pepper ; fold in the whites of the eggs and cook 
the same as usual. Fold it over only once. 

Mushroom Omelet 

Cut 3 or 4 mushrooms in small pieces ; stew 
them until tender in a little milk. Beat 6 eggs, 
yolks and whites separately, add the mush- 
rooms to the yolks, using the milk in which they 
were stewed. Season with a little salt and 
paprika, fold in the whites of the eggs, and 
cook as usual. 

Tomato Omelet 

2 or 3 tomatoes are sufficient for 4 eggs. 
Peel the tomatoes and cut across, remove the 
seeds, and cut the firm part into dice. Put 
them in a frying-pan with salt and pepper and 
a teaspoonful of butter, and cook until done. 
Add these to a plain omelet just before folding 
it over. 

Canned tomatoes may be used in an omelet 
by taking out a little of the firm part. Cook 
this a few minutes in a small saucepan with a 
teaspoonful of butter, a little finely minced 
parsley, and a teaspoonful each of finely 
minced onion and green peppers. Pour over 
the omelet when it has stiffened and fold it in, 



544 MEATS» POULTRY, AND GAME 

or mix it with the yolks of a plain omelet and 

then fold in the whites of the eggs and fry at 

onoe. 

Onion Omelet 

For 6 eggs take 1 large Spanish onion, cnt 
it into dice, and fry in a spoonful of hutter until 
tender, stirring it often. Do not let it brown. 
Add very little salt and a dash of pepper, and 
beat it into the yolks of the eggs. Proceed as 
in directions for plain omelet, folding in the 
whites of the eggs. When it is nearly cooked 
sprinkle over the top a teaspoonful of finely 
minced parsley. Cook in two omelets. Serve 
with it French fried, Lyonnaise, or baked po- 
tatoes with a cream sauce. 

Oyster Omelet 

For a 3-egg omelet take 6 medium-sized oys- 
ters. Cook them in their own liquor until they 
curl. Drain, and chop them quite fine; season 
with pepper and a very little lemon juice. Add 
them to a plain omelet just before folding it. 

Small oysters may be cooked in the same 
way, using a sufficient number for the omelet, 
and lay them whole across the omelet and fold 
over and serve. 

Fruit Omelets 

A good omelet for lunch may be made from 
fresh or stewed fruits, or with jam, preserves, 



BGGS 345 



marmalade, or jelly. A delicious one is made 
with peaches. Take 5 or 6 ripe freestone 
peaches; peel, cut in halves, remove the pits, 
cut them again in quarters; put them in a 
saucepan with 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
just sufficient water to keep them from burning. 
Stew slowly, taking care that they do not break. 
Make a plain omelet, and when just ready to 
fold over, lay the pieces of peach across the 
centre and fold them in. K there should be 
any syrup in the saucepan, pour it around the 
omelet after it is dished. 

Apples may be used in the same way. Pare, 
core, and cut lengthwise in about eighths, nice 
tart apples. Put them in a saucepan with a 
tablespoonful of butter, a tablespoonful of 
sugar to each large apple, and a very little 
water. Cook slowly without breaking, letting 
the syrup cook down until the apples are nearly 
dry. 

Grate over them a little nutmeg; lay the 
apples carefully across the cooked omelet, re- 
serving some whole pieces to arrange around 
the omelet. Fold the apples in and dust over 
it a little powdered sugar. 

Baked Omelet 

Beat 6 or 7 eggs very light; it is better to 
beat the whites separately and add them last. 



• *l 



346 



1WEAT$, POULTRY, AND GAME 



Mix 1 teaspoonfnl of flour with cold milk until 
Bmooth, add a cupftd of milk, and bring to a 
boil. Add pepper and salt, and the beaten 
yolks of the eggs, then the whites, and turn into 
a well-bnttered earthen baking-dish and bake 
fifteen or twenty minntes. Serve at once in the 
same dish* 

Omelet with Peas 

Make a plain omelet with 6 eggs. Have 
ready a pint of freshly cooked green peas — or 
a can of peas from which the water has been 
drained — Cheated and seasoned with salt and 
pepper. When the omelet has set and is ready 
to fold over, put 2 or 3 spoonfuls of the peas in 
the centre ; fold over as nsual and turn on to a 
hot platter. Add to the remaining peas 2 
spoonfuls of rich cream ; let it heat quickly and 
pour it around the omelet. Serve at once. 
The cream may be omitted and the peas served 
dry, with plenty of butter over. 



1 







BOOK I 

THE MODERN HOSTESS 



A Formal Hotel Dinner 



AS ILLUSTRATED BY 



OSCAR OF THE WALDORF 



Courtesy of 
HiGGiNS & Seit 
New York 



IT be JTirgt Course 

HUITRES-OYSTERS 

A glance at the "board" shows the 
water has been poured, and the first 
course, consisting of raw oysters, has been 
served, presenting the appearance shown 
in illustration. The oysters may be in 
the shell on an oyster plate, or without 
shells on a specially made plate. In either 
case the plate should be placed on top of 
a serving plate of decorated china. The 
oysters should either be thoroughly 
c hill ed, or served on cracked ice, and 
accompanied with a bit of lemon. 
Horseradish and pepper sauce are the 
proper articles to serve with them. 









XLbe SeconJ) Course 

POTAGE-SOUP 

The illustration for the second course 
shows the soup-plate to have taken the 
place of the oyster plate, with which has 
gone thz oyster fork. The napkin is in 
use, and the flower is answering its pur- 
pose of personal adornment. The goblet 
of water, in this and succeeding illus- 
trations, remains in place throughout the 
dinner, being refilled at intervals. 




^be G;birD Course 

HOR.S D'OEUViCES 
DAINTY DISH 

may consist of cold side dishes, such as 
olives, radishes, canapes, caviare, an- 
chovies, etc^ or timbales, croustades, 
palmettes, mousselines, bouchees, eUu, 
which are saved hot. 




^bc jfourtb Course 

POISSON— FISH 

whicli in this instance is boiled salmon 
and Parisienne potatoes, shows that a 
fish plate has superseded the soup plate, 
the soup spoon also having been taken 
away. The fish, if it is boiled or fried, 
should have potatoes served with it ; if 
broiled or cooked in any fancy manner, 
serve cucumber salad. The fish plate, 
knife, and fork are taken away (the 
under dinner plate goes with them). 




^be ififtb Course 

eNTR.EE 

is in this case sweetbread with green 
peas. There now remains the butter 
spreader, one knife and fork. Entrees 
should be made as light as possible, and 
they should be made in a fancy way, 
so as to avoid any carving. 




^be Siitb Course 

R.6T1- ROAST 

consists of the "piece de resistance," 
served on a single hot plate. Saddles of 
either veal, mutton, lamb, venison, or 
antelope may be used for this course; 
also turkey, goose, duck, capon, etc., 
may be served, accompanied by one or 
two vegetables; the silver being relaid for 
each course. 



t ^ 




(tbe Seventh Course 

SORBET— PUNCH 

■which is not essential, but nevertheless a 
pleasing half-ivay house among the 
various stages of the dinner, is sherbet, 
for which cooling refreshment a sherbet 
set is desirable. 




Itbe Eiobtb Course 

GIBIER— GAME 

served with salad, follows immediately 
after the sherbet, and forms the eighth 
course. 

After this course the table is cleared 
for the first time of all plates, knives and 
forks, leaving only the goblets before the 
guests. All crumbs, etc., are carefully 
swept away with a silver crumb scraper 
and tray, and dessert spoon and fork are 
laid for the ninth course. 




^be IRintb Course 

DESSERT 

introduces the dessert, \vrhich, of course, 
is served according to the menu. After 
the dessert, plates, forks, and spoons are 
removed, a finger bow^l, partly filled wilh 
scented water, placed on a plate on which 
is a doily, is put before each guest in the 
proper position. The guest is expected 
to lift the bowl and doily from the plate. 
On the plate there must also be a fruit 
knife and nut pick (if they are in the 
menu). 




n;be XLcntb Course 

CAFt— COFFEE 

consists simply of black coffee in small 
after-dinner cups; cheese, if served, ac- 
companies this course. 



ConsoUbateb Xibtav^ of 

flDobetn Cooking 
anb Ibousebolb IRecipes 



CHRISTINE TERHUNE HERRICK 

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

Author of "The Little Dinner," " The Chafing-Dish Supper," etc., 
and associate author with 

MARION HARLAND 



A LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS WHICH INCLUDES MANY OF 

THE FAMOUS CHEFS AND COOKING EXPERTS 

OF THE UNITED STATES 



VOL. I. 



"K, 3. Bobmer Compani? 
1904 



Copyright, 1904 
By R. J. BODMER 



[ MCMHOH COMPANY PflEW 



CONTENTS 



PASB 
1 



The Formal Dinner 

The Informal, Dinner ^^ 

The Formal Luncheon ^^ 

The Informal Luncheon *1 

42 
Suppers 

Chafing-dish Suppers 4" 

4Q 

Breakfasts 

Afternoon Teas 

Table Manners ^^ 

Introductions 

Cards ^^ 

Calls ^^^ 

Balls ^^^ 

Eeceptions 

Musicales and Dramatics 187 

Theatre Parties 1^^ 

Garden Parties 204 

Visiting and House Parties 209 



Weddings ^^ 

Correspondence ^^ 



THE BEGINNING OF THE BOOK 

You will tell me you have a cook-book already, my friend 
the housekeeper. 

Perliaps you have bought the Consolidated Library of 
Modern Cooking, because the five handsome volumes would 
look so attractive on your shelves. But you do not think 
it will ever be of much real service to you? The cook-book 
you cherish is a fat, heavy book, to be sure, and not so 
handy as these volumes, but you think it contains every- 
thing you need ? 

I don't think so. More than that, I believe I can show 
you several ways that have not occurred to you in which 
the Library can be of decided value. 

Look at the opening volume, in the first place— The Mod- 
ern Hostess. You know how often you are puzzled to carry 
out your liospitable intentions. You would like to give a 
dinner, or a tea, or a little evening party ; but you don't 
know just how to do it. You don't wish to put the matter 
into the hands of a professional, and yet you dread under- 
taking it alone and perhaps stamping yourself a " back 
number." 

My dear woman, do you think you are alone in this? 
The average American wife begins her household life on a 
modest scale, and when she arrives at the point where she 
can entertain with more liberality she does not know just 
how to set about it. It was to meet that want that this 
volume was designed. Here you can learn how to conduct 
any form of hospitality, from a house party to an after- 
noon tea, and tlie instructions discuss not only every item 
of each one, from writing the invitations to speeding the 
parting guest, but consider also the small as well as the 
large purse. 

There is another unusual feature in this first volume. 
Some of us may not be hostesses, but sooner or later all of 
us are likely to be guests. That contingency is covered, 



THE BEGINNING OF THE BOOK 



too. Thrown in, to make good measure, so to speak, are 
chapters on the etiquette of calls and correspondence and 
cards— all the details connected with social life. Now do 
you see why the first volume is to be of use to you? 

But the Librai-y is on cookery? I am coming' to that. 
It is very much on cookery. The majority of cook-books 
maybe roughly divided into two classes: the books that 
teach how to cook — very few of these — and the books that 
teach what to cook. The trouble is that most persons ai-e 
told what to cook without being taught how it is to be done. 
That difficulty has been met and conquered here by devot- 
ing a volume to cooking lessons which will ground any 
unskilled housekeeper in the rudiments and lead her by 
easy stages to the point where she can achieve the elaborate 
di.shes described in the later volumes. 

There are three volumes of recipes, besides the one on 
cooking-school work. But the fifth volume introduces an 
innovation in cook-books by being prepared with an espe- 
cial view to the tastes of the man of the house. 

Do you think, dear madam, that he has no interest in 
cook-books? He will be interested in this one! 

Look at it for a moment. Most men who know anything 
of cookery rather fancy themselves as managers of a chaf- 
ing-dish. Here are chafing-dish recipes that will foster the 
pleasing vanity. Show him these! 

Look a little further. Observe the directions for serving 
wines, liqueurs, etc. Your lord and master may think 
himself a judge in this line, but he will be interested in the 
new features presented here, in the histories of the differ- 
ent wines, in the instructions as to the times and conditions 
in which they should be served, in the toasts that may be 
offered with them. Commend this section to his study, and 
you will bless the foresight which put all this special infor- 
mation into one volume, and so permitted you a chance at 
the rest of the library. 

You see now how it is of value, do you not? G«t into 
the habit of turning to it in emergencies, and don't look 
upon it as too good for daily service. Only by making it 
your constant companion can you learn all the Library 
may do for you in saving you thought and labor. 

Christine Tkrhune Herrick 



THE FORMAL DINNER 

In point of dignity and importance the for- 
mal dinner stands at the head of modern social 
entertainments. No other form of entertain- 
ment is governed by rules so inflexible, or pre- 
sents to the novice such a bewildering array of 
difficulties in its conduct. If, however, in pre- 
paring to give a formal dinner, it is remem- 
bered that the purely practical details are to 
be carried out according to the strict rules of 
custom, and must not be varied to suit the taste 
or convenience of the hostess, the undertaking 
becomes at once a less serious problem. It is 
in her choice of the viands, the table decora- 
tions, the selection of guests, and in her general 
tactfulness, that opportunity is offered to 
achieve distinction as a giver of successful 
dinners. 

The term " formal dinner " seems in the 
minds of many people to be synonymous with 
lavishness and display, whereas simplicity — 
not the simplicity of frugality, but the simple 
dignity and grace of good taste — should be the 
keynote of the " company " dinner as well as 
that of a less ceremonious entertainment. The 



THE MODERN HOSTESS 



experienced hostess will introduce no novelties 
at her dinners; no chafing-dish courses or 
" surprises " of any kind. She will not have 
tawdry or over-elaborate menu ur dinner cards, 
and, above all, will not place beside the plate 
of each guest a " souvenir " of the occasion, 
which one "authority" informs his readers 
may consist of jewelry, purses, and knick- 
knacks of plush or satin, the latter " of home 
manufacture, if desirable." As an appetizer a 
plush handkerchief case is scarcely to be com- 
mended; and really the only souvenir permis- 
sible at a dinner is the flower or boutonniere 
sometimes placed at each cover, or the dainty 
name card. Expensive gifts to one's guests 
are never in good taste, though the custom of 
giving such things has prevailed to a consider- 
able extent in certain forms of entertainment. 
Cotillon favors, for instance, were often expen- 
sive; also the prizes offered at card parties; 
but the tendency now, where favors, souvenirs, 
or prizes are to be given, is to present articles 
of small intrinsic value, but of especial dainti- 
ness or oddity. 

To return, however, to the subject, it would 
be advisable when contemplating the giving of 
a large and ceremonious dinner to consider 
well what it means in the way of expense and 
of mental and bodily exertion. Unless one's 



THE FORMAL DINNER 



income is large and his establishment equipped 
in accordance, it would be better not to attempt 
a dinner of ceremony. To be compelled to hire 
extra servants for the occasion, or extra dishes, 
or silver, is to stamp the entertainment at the 
start with the mark of bad taste. Better far 
to give a small informal dinner, with the means 
at hand, however limited, than to undertake an 
elaborate affair which will not only seriously 
cripple one's bank account, but which must in- 
evitably fall short of the perfection necessary 
to successful achievement. 

INVITATIONS 

Invitations to a formal dinner are, of course, 
correspondingly formal. It is the decree of 
custom that they should be sent out at least two 
weeks in advance of the selected date, and that 
they must be answered promptly; if possible, 
within twenty-four hours. To postpone from 
day to day the sending of a reply to a dinner 
invitation is a serious breach of good manners, 
inasmuch as such delay causes the hostess great 
mental disturbance and serious inconvenience. 
Should a nof e of regrets reach her promptly, she 
has time to invite another guest to fill the vacant 
place; but if the refusal comes at the eleventh 
hour she is forced into a position from which 
any kindly, tactful woman may well shrink ; for 



THE MODERN HOSTESS 



she is uow compelled to find a " stop-gap," and 
this means an invitation sent but a few days 
before the dinner. The recipient of such an in- 
vitation to a formal entertainment knows well 
that he is a " second choice," and naturally 
feels a bit resentful. If it becomes necessary 
to fill a vacancy on short notice the wise hostess 
will turn frankly to some tried and good- 
natured friend, who is sufficiently a man or 
woman of the world to understand the exigen- 
cies of dinner-giviug and who will cheerfully 
rally to her assistance and do all possible to 
help to save the day. But no hostess should be 
placed in a position so awkward through the 
negligence of a guest whom she has honored 
by an invitation. The object in sending dinner 
invitations a fortnight or longer in advance is 
twofold. In the height of the social season 
especially, society people have many engage- 
ments, to fill, and their time is often bespoken 
for days ahead. In order, therefore, to secure 
the company of those one wants particularly to 
bring together, it is necessary to give them 
ample notice. 

If the invited guests are familiar with the 
rules of etiquette, each one i-esponds at once 
to his or her im-itation. In replying, the 
answer given must be a definite " Yes " or 
'» No "—that is, the invitation must be either 



The formal dinner 



accepted or declined; there is no middle posi- 
tion on this point ; there must be no vacillating, 
no conditions expressed. An acceptance must 
not be made dependent upon personal circum- 
stances that are likely to arise in the interim— 
this would be the height of rudeness— and 
finally, it is always best to accept a dinner in- 
vitation unless one has good and sufficient rea- 
sons for declining it. The two objects, then, in 
sending invitations at least two weeks in ad- 
vance are : first, to secure the guests you most 
desire, and second, to have a reasonable length 
of time, in case of a note of regrets, to secure 
another guest. 

Invitations to a formal dinner are usually en- 
graved upon large, square, white cards, but it 
is quite proper for the hostess to write her in- 
vitations upon note paper — using not more 
than the first page, and following the formal 
wording of the engraved card. If it is decided 
to use the latter, it is best to consult a reliable 
stationer regarding the details of shape, size, 
type, etc. Those dwelling in the country or 
small towns may write to a leading stationer in 
the nearest city, who will furnish information 
and attend to the printing of the cards. Upon 
the engraved card spaces are left for the in- 
sertion in handwriting of the names of the 
guests, the day, the hour, and the date. The 



THE MODERN HOSTESS 



usual form of invitation, whether written or en- 
graved, is as follows: 

Mr. and Mrs. James Angell 

request the pleasure of 



company at dinner 

on evening 

at o'clock. 

79 Proipeet Street. 

U Holme* Avenue, 
March 31»<, 19—. 

Mr. and Mrs. Andrew White 

accept with pleasure 
Mr. and Mrs. James Angell's 

invitation to dinner on 

Tuesday evening, April tenth, 

at eight o'clock. 

In eases of " regrets " the form will be: 



THE FORMAL DINNER 



Mr. and Mrs. Andrew White 

regret that their departure from town 

prevents their acceptance of 

Mr. and Mrs. James Ang ell's 

kind invitation to dinner on 

Tuesday evening, April tenth, 

at eight o'clock. 

H Holmti Atenut, 
March ZUt, 19—. 

An invitation sent to a man and wife is ad- 
dressed to both ; if another member of the fam- 
ily or a guest of the house is invited, he or she 
receives a separate card. An answer, whether 
conveying regrets or an acceptance, is invari- 
ably addressed to the hostess, not to herself and 
husband. 

The letters R. S. V. P. {Repondez, s'il vous 
plait, which is a French expression meaning 
" Answer, if you please ") are no longer used 
upon dinner invitations. It is not in good taste 
to remind your invited guests that they must 
not be remiss in their manners; furthermore, 
the words are unpleasantly suggestive of over- 
anxiety on the part of the hostess as to the 
number of oysters and ices to be provided. 



8 THE MODER N HOSTESS 

In giving a dinner in honor of a special guest, 
the hostess may write at the bottom of the en- 
graved card, or add to her written invitation, 
the words, " To meet Mr. and Mrs. So-and-So." 
Or small cards may be engraved with these 
words and inclosed with the invitation. 

In case it becomes necessary to postpone the 
date of a dinner or to cancel the invitations 
thereto, an explanatory note must be sent by 
messenger or by Special deliVefy to such invited 
guest. Such notes are expressed in the third 
person and may read as follows : 

Mr: and Mrs. James Angell regret exceed- 
ingly that a sudden and severe illness in their 
family necessitates the indefinite postponement 
of their dinner arranged for the 10th inst. 

To be compelled to break a dinner engage- 
ment— to cancel one's acceptance of an invita- 
tion—is unfortunate; but unexpected circum- 
stances sometimes afise which I'ender a note of 
tvithdrawal necessary. In this case a note of 
explanation, written in less formal manner than 
are the invitation and its answer, must be des- 
patched to the hostess in the quickest way pos- 
sible. The excuse given for breaking the en- 
gagement must be distinctly stated, and the re- 
grets should be sincerely but not extravagantly 
expressed. One might say, for instance : 



THE FORMAL DINNER 



14 Holme) Avenue, 

April 4th, 19—. 

My Deak Mbs. Angell : 

I regret to say that we are by unforeseen cir- 
cumstances prevented from dining with you 
next Tuesday. Mr. White met with an acci- 
dent resulting in a severe sprain, which makes 
it impossible for him to walk. I assure you 
that this unpleasant circumstance and its at- 
tending pain to Mr. White are hardly more 
severe than our disappointment at relinquish- 
ing this opportunity of enjoying your hospi- 
tality. 

With many regrets, I am. 

Faithfully yours, 

Agnes WHrrE, 

THE GUESTS 

The success of a dinner, formal or otherwise, 
depends so largely upon the people brought to- 
gether to enjoy it, that the hostess must use 
the utmost care in choosing the guests. She 
will not select them at random from her circle 
of friends, with the unpleasant conviction that 
she must invite this one or that in order to 
' ' repay ' ' certain social obligations ; but she 
will keep in mind that her first object is to give 
the most enjoyment possible to each guest at 
her table, and that this can be accomplished 



THE MODERN HOSTESS 



only by bringing together congenial spirits, or 
at least by inviting no one who through dul- 
ness, egotism, or any other failing will neither 
have a good time himself nor contribute to the 
enjoyment of others. The circle should not be 
marred by the presence of even one guest of 
this kind. If the hostess must give a dinner to 
return social obligations, that is a different 
affair, and perhaps a more difficult one to 
manage with entire success ; but we are speak- 
ing now of the dinner in which full play is al- 
lowed for the best effort. 

Sk, eight, or twelve are the best number of 
guests for a dinner, though as many more may 
be entertained as the dining-room will com- 
fortably accommodate. The table, above all 
things, should never be crowded. Bodily and 
mental comfort and ease are prime requisites 
for the enjoyment of a good dinner. 

It is well to invite equal numbers of men and 
women; and in seating the guests at table to 
see that people of like tastes are placed to- 
gether. Husbands and wives or near relatives 
should, of course, be separated. It is not to be 
expected that every guest will prove a brilliant 
talker; indeed, a person who is inclined to 
monopolize the attention of the entire table by 
his discourse is not as a rule a desirable guest ; 
he frequently bores one or another of those 



THE FORMAL DINNER 



present, who out of politeness lends a perfunc- 
tory ear to his " flow of language," but who 
would much prefer to chat quietly with his own 
immediate neighbor. But, of course, the ar- 
rangement of the guests is a matter that the 
hostess can best decide for herself from her in- 
timate knowledge of the characteristics of each 
one invited. If a guest of special importance 
has been invited, — a traveller, an author, or a 
well-known painter, — everyone will be glad to 
hear him talk, and his hostess is fortunate if he 
proves to be brilliant and entertaining. As to 
the duties of guests themselves, it need only 
be said that each one should remember that the 
success of the dinner depends in a measure 
upon himself. He is not there simply to be fed 
and amused, but to do the best in his power to 
add to the enjoyment of his fellow guests and 
to the comfort and ease of mind of his hostess. 
She will be grateful to him for his pleasant at- 
tentions to her other guests, and especially to 
anyone among them who does not seem to be 
wholly at ease, or who needs drawing out. Such 
a guest is bound to be found occasionally, even 
in a carefully selected dinner group. 

The hostess herself must present to her 
guests a face of imperturbable serenity. She 
must seem as free from anxiety as the cheer- 
fulest man or woman at her board, and under 



12 THE B<[ODER N HOSTESS 

no circumstances should she turn a troubled 
glance on her servants or in the direction of 
pantry or kitchen. No difference what disas- 
ter occurs or threatens to occur, she must 
«' make believe " it is no concern of hers what- 
ever—must keep a smooth brow, an unshaken 
voice, and a steady hand. The host, at the 
other end of the table, is equally unconscious 
of the domestic machinery revolving noiselessly 
about him. 

At large dinners it is customary to place in 
the gentlemen's dressing-room a tray on which 
small envelopes are placed, one addressed to 
each of the^men and containing a card bearing 
the name of the lady who is to be his dinner 
partner. When this plan is not followed the 
hostess simply announces to each man the name 
of the lady who has been assigned to his care ; 
and if she is a stranger to him, he is presented 
to her before dinner is announced. It is the 
butler's duty to note the arrival of the guests, 
to " keep tab " on them, figuratively speaking, 
so that when all are assembled in the drawing- 
room he may announce the dinner; and both 
dinner and guests, by the way, should be exactly 
on time. 

Upon their arrival, the guests are directed 
to the dressing-rooms, and thence descend to 
the drawing-room. At the proper moment the 



THE FORMAL DINNER 



butler enters the drawing-room and stands just 
within the door ; the hostess, having this detail 
in mind, will turn her face toward him, thus 
giving him an opportunity to say very quietly, 
" Dinner is served," or simply to incline his 
head slightly. He then bows respectfully and 
leaves the room without turning his back upon 
the company. The host now rises and offers 
his arm to the lady who is to sit at his right, 
usually a woman of especial distinction or one 
who for some reason is to be thus honored. 
The other gentlemen follow with the ladies as- 
signed to them, and the hostess comes last with 
the man who is to sit at her right. If more 
ladies than gentlemen are present, the hostess 
must enter the dining-room without an escort, 
as it would not be in good form for her to ap- 
propriate one of the few men present while a 
woman guest was without an escort. 

THK MENU 

Some writers upon the subject of dinner- 
giving contend that the success of a dinner de- 
pends entirely upon the guests— that the feast 
of reason and flow of soul is the thing — and that 
the matter of the menu is purely secondary. 
While no one will dispute the importance of 
having a brilliant circle of guests at one's en- 
tertainment, it is safe to say that the brilliance 



THE MODERN HOSTESS 



of those same guests would be considerably 
dimmed were they compelled to sharpen their 
wits on poorly selected, poorly cooked food and 
bad wines. The first step, then, after settling 
upon the date of the dinner and selecting the 
guests, is to make a study of the provision mar- 
ket. The great majority of food articles are " in 
season " during certain parts of the year. Many 
of them can be found in the market throughout 
the year, but when out of season are of forced 
cultivation and not nearly so palatable. They 
are also much higher priced, which to some 
people is an item worth considering. Nature 
knew what she was about when she assigned to 
each animal and vegetable food its proper sea- 
son, and any attempt on the part of butcher, 
gardener, or cook to improve upon her scheme 
cannot but result in failure. Therefore, an es- 
sential consideration in arranging a dinner 
menu is to select from the list of food articles 
those that are in season— in other words, at 
their very best. In another part of this work' 
will be found tables giving accurately the " sea- 
sons " for fish, meat, fruits, and vegetables. 

The experienced hostess will, of course, have 
menus galore at her finger-tips. So many good 
dinners has she given and eaten that the selec- 
tion of the viands for another dinner need cost 
her no great effort; but the woman inexperi- 



THE FORMAL DINNER 



enced in entertaining on a large scale will be 
appalled at the serious problem of making up 
her first few menus. They look so simple — 
" just oysters or clams, you know, and soup, 
and some kind of meat, and game and salad, 
and so on." It is easy to generalize; the 
trouble doesn't really begin until one tries to 
particularize—" What kind of soup must I 
have! What meat is best? What entrees are 
proper? What game is seasonable? and what 
about salads and desserts? " It is indeed be- 
wildering. The following points, however, in 
conjunction with a careful study of the tables 
referred to, will be found very helpful : 

A dinner of ceremony will consist usually of 
eight or more courses. These should be chosen 
not only with an eye to the palatableness of 
each, but with a view to the good balance and 
general harmony of the meal throughout. Do 
not repeat articles in different parts of the 
dinner; for instance, do not serve oysters in 
two or three ways, however different in prep- 
aration; nor lobsters, nor cheese, etc. If you 
have more than one entree, let them vary in 
nature as much as possible. 

The outline of the course dinner is almost 
invariably as follows: 1, oysters; or, if out of 
season, some other appetizer; 2, soup; 3, fish; 
4, entree ; 5, roast ; G, game ; 7, salad ; 8, dessert. 



THE MODERN HOSTESS 



This may be varied by the introduction of en- 
trees, sherbets, etc., thus increasing the num- 
ber of courses. 

Oysters are seasonable in each month in 
which the letter " E " occurs. When not in 
season their place upon the bill of fare is usu- 
ally filled by the Little Neck clam. Sis oysters, 
or about eight clams, are served to each guest. 
Small plates especially for the purpose are filled 
with shaved ice, upon which the moUusks in the 
half-shell are symmetrically arranged. A quar- 
ter of a fine juicy lemon is placed in the centre 
of each plate. To accompany this course, the 
waiter passes small sandwiches of brown or gra- 
ham bread, or dainty crackers. The proper 
condiments are salt, pepper, cayenne pepper, 
Tabasco sauce, and horseradish. Sauterne is 
the wine to be served. A clear soup is usually 
served at a formal dinner. If two soups are 
prepai-ed one should be thick— a cream, puree, 
or bisque. The waiter asks the guest which he 
prefers. Soup plates should be about ton 
inches in diameter; in serving, a scant ladleful 
is the portion of each guest. To fill a soup 
plate too generously is in bad taste. Toasted 
crackers may be served with clear soup, and 
croutons with a thick soup. Neither crackers 
nor croutons should be placed in the soup be- 
fore it is served, as they lose their crispness; 



THE FORMAL DINNER 



they are passed so that the guests may help 
themselves. Sherry accompanies the soup. 

It is usual to serve potatoes with boiled or 
fried fish, and cucumber salad with fish that is 
broiled or prepared in some fancy style. Cress, 
tomatoes, and radishes may also be served with 
fish. A salad, dressed with oil, should not be 
placed directly upon the hot fish-plates, but upon 
a leaf of cold, crisp lettuce ; or it may be served 
in separate dishes at the left of each cover. 
Olives and salted almonds are passed with this 
course and Rhine wine served. 

Entrees are dainty dishes so made as to re- 
quire little or no carving; they are served be- 
tween the principal courses, and include the 
various croquettes, rissoles, patties, and tim- 
bales. 

One entree, following the fish, is sufficient 
upon a menu, but it is quite allowable to serve 
two or more. If two entrees are prepared, let 
the second be a fritter or compote of some sort. 
Serve claret. 

The roast, or piece de resistance, as it is 
termed, with its accompaniment of vegetables, 
constitutes the substantial course of the repast. 
Roast sirloin of beef, or saddles of mutton, 
lamb, veal, or venison may be chosen. Roast 
poultry — turkey, goose, duck, etc.— is equally 
desirable. Potatoes with one other vegetable 



THE MODERN HOSTESS 



ai'e usually served; or the potatoes may be 
omitted and two other vegetables prepared. 
The proper wine is champagne. 

Following the roast a sherbet is served. 
This, however, is not assigned a special head- 
ing on printed or written menus, as it is simply 
a light spur to the appetite consisting of a 
dainty frozen punch served in small glasses. 

With game it is usual to serve a vegetable 
salad. This is not arbitrary, however, and the 
salad may follow as a separate course with 
cheese and ci-ackers. Currant jelly, or some 
other appropriate fruit relish, is served with 
game. The wine should be Burgundy. 

Serve only a vegetable salad at dinner. If 
there is a game course the salad usually accom- 
panies it ; should game not be served, the salad, 
with crackers and cheese or some other cheese 
prei:>aration, forms a course in itself. If the 
salad and game are served as a single course, 
it is sometimes followed by a hot cheese course. 

For a formal dinner, two desserts are usually 
prepared, the first consisting of a hot or cold 
sweet dish, such as pudding, fritters, souffles, 
etc., to be followed by some frozen dainty, or- 
dinarily an ice cream. Champagne is served. 

In preparing for a large dinner, the menu 
should be in the hands of the cook three or four 
days in advance; a duplicate menu should be 



THE FORMAL DINNER 



placed iu the pantry for the convenience of the 
butler, who must needs be perfectly familiar 
with the details of the dinner if he is to serve 
it properly. 

THE TABLE 

While certain rules govern the arrangement 
or ' ' setting ' ' of the table for a formal dinner, 
there is permissible a slight variation in some 
of the minor points, and, at the same time, 
ample opportunity is offered for the display of 
individual taste in the matter of decoration, 
lighting, etc. Fine linen, beautiful glass, china, 
and silver constitute " half the battle," but 
much depends also upon the arrangement of 
flowers, and the candles, lamps, or whatever 
artificial light is used. 

To begin with, the table, whatever its shape, 
is covered with a " silence cloth," which is the 
attractive way of designating the Canton-flannel 
or felt cover placed beneath the table-cloth 
proper. The object of this is too obvious to 
need explanation; but it may be mentioned here 
that the less noise — i. e., rattling of knives 
and forks and dishes, or the voices of servants 
in the pantry, or the sound of their footsteps — 
accompanying a dinner, the more impressive 
and satisfactory will this entertainment prove. 
Over the silence cloth is spread the finest 
damask table-cloth that can be afforded. This 



20 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

cloth is laundered witlaout starch and folded 
loosely without creasing — or, better still, rolled 
upon a wooden roller until it is needed. Nap- 
kins also are without starch. The place of 
each guest, the plate, and accessories are called 
a cover. For each cover allow as much space 
as the table will permit— not less than twenty- 
inches, but more if possible— and in the exact 
centre of this space place what is called the 
service plate. This plate is removed iisually 
when the fish is served ; but it is also correct to 
have a service plate in front of the guest 
throughout the meal until the table is cleared 
for dessert. This is troublesome, however, as 
it means a constant renewal of the plate, and 
many hostesses elect to dispense with it early 
in the meal. 

At the right of the service plate lay such 
knives as are to be used before dessert. These 
will be placed in the order in which they will 
be needed — the first one on the right — and the 
sharp edge of each is turned toward the plate. 
To the right of the knives place the soup spoon, 
bowl upward; and outside of this the small 
oyster fork. At the left of the service plate 
arrange all forks to be used before dessert. 
These lie prongs upward, and, like the knives, 
ia the order of their use. On the outside the 
fish fork, next an entree fork; then that used 



THE FORMAL DINNER 



for the roast. The salad or game fork lies 
next to the plate. The roast fork is larger 
than the others. 

If a sherbet spoon is placed upon the table 
it lies next to the oyster fork; but spoons are 
not so popular as they once were, and the 
spoons for a sherbet should be brought in upon 
the plates which hold the sherbet glasses. 

In case the menu includes other courses re- 
quiring knives and forks, it is better to place 
those necessary at each cover at the time the 
course is served. They might be placed upon 
the table at the beginning, also the dessert fork 
and spoon, but this mal?es the display of silver 
somewhat conspicuous. 

The water and the wine glasses are grouped 
together. The former stands slightly to the 
right of the upper edge of the plate. The wine 
glasses are placed in the order in which they 
are used, the first near the points of the knives 
and the others extending in a curved line to 
the water glass. 

The napkin, which should match the table- 
cloth in design and quality, is folded four times 
in the ironing, and lies to the left of the forks. 
It is permissible to lay it on the service plate. 
At the dinner it is folded once more to enclose 
a roll or a piece of bread, which is eaten with 
the soup. Never strive to achieve a novelty 



22 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

in napkin-folding. This is done only in hotels, 
restaurants, cafes, etc. 

Avoid the use of original menu cards; they 
savor of Bohemian feasts, " stag parties," or 
hotel dinners, and are out of place on the con- 
ventional table. Dinner cards, each bearing 
the name of a guest, are useful in seating the 
company. These cards are best without orna- 
ment, but it is permissible to adorn them with 
a bit of dainty water-color decoration or the 
monogram of the hostess. No mistake can be 
made, however, if the card is small, of fine tex- 
ture, and without other decoration than the 
written name. The letter " E " or " L " may 
be placed in a corner of the card to indicate the 
side of the table to which the guest has been 
assigned. The names of guests are sometimes 
inscribed in gold or silver upon the ends of 
broad white ribbons which lie between the 
covers, and are connected with the floral dec- 
oration in the centre of the table. A souvenir 
of this kind is used only for the ladies. Upon 
the whole, it is better to omit ribbon adornment 
of the table. In this connection it should be 
added that every piece of textile fabric used 
upon a dining-table should be of the sort that 
can be laundered. Some authorities tell of 
plush, satin, velvet, silk, and ribbon additions 
to (he decoration, but such materials would bet- 



THE FORMAL DINNER 23 



ter give place to fine damask, and embroidered 
linens. 

Another feature that is frequently overdone 
in the arrangement of the table is the floral dec- 
oration. It is possible to err here as well as 
in other directions. Heavily-scented flowers 
should be avoided ; those that do not harmonize 
in kind or color should not be grouped. There 
are some flowers that do not " light up " well, 
that lose the beauty of their color under arti- 
ficial light; others wither rapidly. These 
should not be used. A handsome centrepiece 
is usually sufficient, though it is in good taste 
to arrange the flowers in several handsome 
bowls or in other low receptacles according to 
the artistic sense of the hostess. A little bunch 
of flowers, or a single handsome blossom, may 
be laid beside each cover. 

The lighting of the dining-room is another 
important feature of the dinner occasion. The 
ordinary gas chandelier, however handsome, 
does not as a rule diffuse a light that is becom- 
ing to the complexion, especially to an indiffer- 
ent complexion. If one's guests are to be quite 
comfortable in mind they must not become con- 
scious, from looking at one another, that they 
are suffering in appearance because the light 
is unbecoming. If the gas or electric light 
must be depended upon to illuminate the din- 



24 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

uer table, make a study of, or seek information 
upon, the subject of shading the burners. The 
color scheme of the dining-room will have some- 
thing to do with this. Little silk shades can be 
made or bought to fit almost any kind of globe 
or light-bulb, and as a rule the delicate warm 
yellows give the best results. Never have a 
red light, unless the idea is to make the dinner 
party look like a group of Indians holding a 
council of war about the camp-fire. There is 
no light so beautiful and so becoming as that of 
the was candle. It takes a large number, how- 
ever, to light a dining-room sufficiently, and 
there must be handsome accessories in the way 
of candelabras and shades. In country homes 
fine lamps are used. The illumination of a 
table should be, if possible, from the sides — not 
from above the heads of the guests. 

It is in good taste to place small glasses or 
silver dishes of bonbons, salted nuts, and other 
relishes upon the table, but it is better to put 
such things upon a side table, to be passed at 
the proper time by the waiter. Carafes for 
water and decanters for wine are also best on 
the side table. 

SERVING THE DINNER 

We now come to what seems to the inex- 
perienced hostess the most difficult and compli- 



THE FORMAL DINNER 2S 



Cated part of dinner-giving. It is at this point 
that she realizes fully the need of expert and 
sufficient assistance. It is always inadvisable 
to attempt a large, conventional dinner without 
such help. Almost any other form of enter- 
tainment can be managed " somehow " with 
one or two servants, or with extra help hired 
for the occasion. But for a dinner party one 
needs a cook of unquestionable skill, a butler 
who understands his business, one other good 
waiter, and a helper in the pantry. The but- 
ler, when serving at dinner, wears a dress suit 
and white tie. 

The more conventional, and, at the same 
time, the more convenient, way of serving a 
formal dinner is to prepare each individual 
plate in the pantry. That is, the butler, or 
other head waiter, arranges an individual por- 
tion of each course upon a plate, and placing 
the latter on his tray, which is held in the left 
hand, carries it to the right of the guest who is 
to be served. With his right hand he then puts 
the plate before the guest. 

To begin with, as soon as the company is 
seated, the oysters or clams are served ; accord- 
ing to some writers on social etiquette these 
may be in place before the guests enter the 
dining-room, but it is in better form to bring 
them in afterward. When the oyster plates 



26 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

are removed the soup is served. If there are 
two soups, the waiter asks the guest which he 
prefers. The soup plate is placed upon the 
service plate, and when the soup course is over 
both plates are removed. If the hostess elects 
to use the service plate throughout the dinner 
until dessert, the tray is not required in serv- 
ing ; but the service plate is changed with every 
course, which means inconvenience and extra 
work for the waiters. In removing dishes the 
waiter holds his tray in the left hand and stands 
at the right of the guest. 

In passing a dish from which the guests are 
to help themselves, the waiter presents it at the 
left side of the cover and holds it low in con- 
venient position for the guest to use his right 
hand. 

In serving, the waiters, if there are two, usu- 
ally begin with the guests on the right hand of 
the host and hostess and pass in opposite direc- 
tions, one ending with the host, the other with 
the hostess. 

Wines are poured from the right, imme- 
diately after each course is served. Informa- 
tion regarding the proper use of wines at a 
course dinner will be found on another page. 
The last course consists of black coffee and 
cordials. After this the finger-bowls are 
passed. These will be of cut glass or some 



THE FORMAL DINNER 27 

other fine material, and should contain a small 
quantity of water. The water is sometimes 
scented slightly with violet. It is also cus- 
tomary to place in each finger-bowl a geranium 
leaf, or flower, or a slice of lemon ; but to some 
people the use of a flower in this way savors of 
pi'ofanity. Neither does the lemon impress 
one as being altogether suitable for the pur- 
pose. The finger-bowl is brought in upon a 
small dessert plate covered with a fine doily. 

In some fashionable houses a cocktail is 
served to the guests just before dinner or after 
they are seated at table. 

The simplest method of serving a conven- 
tional dinner is to pass the viands prepared on 
their platters or other dishes so that each guest 
may help himself. The table is arranged in 
every respect as it would be for the formal 
serving; plates, of course, are put before the 
guests at the beginning of each course. The 
butler should have means of signalling to the 
cook in the kitchen to notify him when ready 
for the next course. All dishes should be re- 
moved from the table very quietly, one thing at 
a time, and under no circumstances by ' ' stack- 
ing " the plates or setting one dish in another. 
The empty dishes are taken to the pantry and 
thence removed by an assistant to the kitchen. 
Never permit any sound of dishwashing to 



2i THE MODERN HOSTESS 

reach the dining-room. The table, when dessert 
is reached, should look as fresh and orderly as 
when the guests sat down. Removing the 
crumbs seems to be a necessary evil, but let it 
be done as daintily as possible by means of a 
clean napkin and crumb tray. 

DINNER NOTES 

Butter is not placed upon the table at a for- 
mal dinner where the conventionalities are 
strictly observed. 

When carving is done at the table, a large 
carving napkin should be in place before the 
host.. This is removed just before dessert. 
Never place the meat upon a platter so small 
as to hamper the efforts of the carver. His 
duties are difficult enough as it is. 

The serving of wine at a dinner, formal or 
informal, though customary, is not compulsory. 
In giving a wineless dinner one breaks no rule 
of etiquette or of good taste. 

Neither is it in bad form to decline wine at 
a dinner if you do not wish to drink it. The 
rudeness lies in making a display of your tem- 
perance principles by any conspicuous refusal 
when the waiter appears to serve you. 

At a formal dinner one need not feel that one 
must eat everything set before one. A tactful 
guest will not, however, if it can be helped, 



THE FORMAL DINNER 29 

allow the hostess to be worried with the thought 
that her viands are not to his taste. A little 
busy pretence of eating and drinking will tide 
one over the unpalatable course without giving 
offence. 

When the dinner is finished, a guest should 
not fold his napkin. This implies that it will 
be used again without washing. Neither 
should it be thrown down in a careless heap. 
Take it by the centre and lay it inconspicuously 
beside the cover. Napkin rings are not used 
except in families of limited income, where the 
matter of a fresh napkin for each member of 
the household, at every meal, would mean a 
serious increase in laundry expenses. 



30 



THE MODERN HOSTESS 



US O 

I _< a 

3— * 

^cc £ 
be « 
— Or 
00 






S'-s O 



5 X S 



*2 H 



■as 

3 3 



:^ 



<e . a- 
§02.= . 

m 



« b£i[ 



03 



O 









« . — ■ © . . 

OS'S S<t3 



cga 






©CO "OO 






o w 



3 4> OO 
fa 



o.s 



si 



t).£: 



4)13 

d a 
ems 



!ca 



.S-s 
.E S 






THE INFORMAL DINNER 

Under the head of informal dinners are in- 
cluded not only the less ceremonious dinner at 
which g-uests are present, but the family dinner. 
In the homes of the wealthy and fashionable 
the family dinner, or the informal dinner, is 
served with almost as much ceremony as a 
larger dinner would be. In the more modest 
establishment this is neither possible nor desir- 
able, and here the service of an informal dinner 
differs considerably from that of the formal 
affair. And yet it has conventionalities of its 
own which must be observed. 

For the small dinner to which guests have 
been invited informally, the menu is prepared 
with the same care that would be given to a 
more elaborate menu, and the order of the 
courses is the same. There will be, supposedly, 
but one waiter or waitress. The soup is served 
from the pantry or by the hostess, before whom 
the tureen is placed after the removal of the 
oyster plates. When served at the table the soup 
plates are not stacked beside the hostess ready 
for use, but are brought, two or three at a time, 
from the sideboard and placed before her to be 
31 



32 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

filled. In removing the soup course, the tureen 
is taken out first. The host serves the fish and 
carves the roast. Entrees, vegetables, and 
sauces are placed upon the side table and from 
there passed to the left of each guest. Either 
the host or the hostess may make the salad at 
the table, and the dessert and coffee are served 
by the hostess. At a formal dinner there is 
usually a hot dessert followed by a frozen 
dainty of some kind. One dessert is sufficient 
for the smaller dinner, and an ice is commonly 
considered appropriate. This may be served 
with or without cakes. When the dessert is 
finished, the platter from which it was served 
by the hostess is removed and then the individ- 
ual dishes taken away. This is the proper time 
to serve cheese and crackers or wafers, if there 
has been no cheese elsewhere on the menu. 
Then comes the coffee served in tiny after-din- 
ner cups. A finger-bowl is now placed before 
each guest, somewhat to the left. 

Where there is but one maid to do both cook- 
ing and serving, everything that can be done in 
advance to facilitate matters should be at- 
tended to. Place upon the table all of the 
knives and forks that will be needed. See that 
during dinner such articles as will be required 
from time to time are in their place upon the 
sideboard or the side table. 



THE INFORMAL DINNER 33 



In regard to the family dinner, it is a pity 
that in so many homes there is no attempt what- 
ever to lend to this meal the attractiveness that 
comes from a dainty laying of the table and a 
certain amount of conventionality in serving. 
It is an easy matter for the housekeeper to be- 
come careless in these matters, especially where 
her cares are many, and her efforts not likely 
to receive a sympathetic appreciation. But it 
is so much better to start right and to maintain, 
so far as possible, some degree of order in the 
dining-room. At the end of a dinner, how 
many family tables look neat and orderly? Do 
they not rather appear to have been shaken up 
by an earthquake shock? At each place the 
soiled dishes are pushed to one side or stacked 
in forbidding disorder, instead of having been 
taken away at the proper time ; the meat plat- 
ter, which has not been removed to give place 
to the dessert, stands awry before the head of 
the family; the vegetable dishes which kept it 
company are scattered about— none in its own 
place ; while catsup bottles, cruets, carafes, and 
similar articles stand here and there, and 
crumbs, broken bits of bread, knives, forks, and 
spoons, in general disarray, litter every avail- 
able space of table-cloth. Now, instead of this 
higgledy-piggledy way of dining, it would be 
an easy matter, even if the mother herself or 



34 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



one of her boys or girls had to leave the table 
for the purpose, to keep tlie table cleared of the 
dishes not in use. It is wise to insist upon the 
co-operation of the children in keeping the table 
neat, and in maintaining order during meal- 
time. If a child is permitted to straggle in to 
breakfast or dinner when it suits him to do so ; 
to sit with hunched shoulders, leaning against 
the table, or with his arms on the table; if he 
is allowed to shove his chair back noisily and 
leave the table with his mouth full of food, and 
go shouting from the room, without asking his 
mother to excuse him, it will be safe to assume 
that in the family to which he belongs there is 
no understanding of the greater comfort and 
enjoyment that attend an orderly, well-served 
table. If soup is a part of the family dinner, 
serve it as would be done for a small company 
dinner. AVhen it is finished remove the tureen 
and then the plates, the latter not in a stack 
readj^ to topple over, but two at a time, with the 
spoons carefully placed so that they will not 
fall. Don't allow an empty soup dish or din- 
ner plate to be pushed to one side, to stand 
throughout the meal. 

Have a clean table-cloth as often as possible ; 
it is a great moral factor, and so, too, are 
flowers on the table, however simple the bunch. 
In other words, serve what there is to serve, 



THE INFORMAL DINNER 35 

even the frugalest meal, as daintily as possible, 
and it will add incalculably to the attractive- 
ness of the home. 

On another page will be found a number of 
menus suitable for informal family dinners. 



THE FORMAL LUNCHEON 

While men are not wholly barred from in- 
vitation to the company luncheon, this partic- 
ular form of entertainment is usually extended 
only to ladies. It is a most satisfactory way of 
entertaining one's woman friends, and for this 
reason has grown greatly in favor in recent 
years. The mature woman invites her con- 
temporaries to lunch with her ; the prospective 
bride gives a " farewell luncheon " to her girl 
friends, or to those who will be her brides- 
maids ; the debutante entertains the young girls 
of her " set," and the young matron brings to- 
gether a group of her young married friends. 

Invitations to a formal luncheon are either 
written or engraved; to a less ceremonious 
luncheon they may be written or verbal. They 
should be delivered at least one week in advance 
of the date of the entertainment, though a 
longer time must be allowed in the height of the 
social season when one's friends are much in 
demand. Invitations to a luncheon should be 
answered promptly — just as one would answer 
a dinner invitation. 
The formal luncheon is served as a rule at 
36 



THE FORMAL LUNCHEON 37 

one, half-past one, or two o'clock — not later 
than the latter hour, lest it spoil the guest's 
appetite for dinner. In houses of extensive 
means, the luncheon will differ but slightly from 
the formal dinner. The table will be laid as 
elaborately and handsomely, except that there 
will be fewer wineglasses, and the menu and 
serving will be much the same. Where the 
hostess possesses a fine table, it has long been 
customary to have no eovei'ing upon it at 
luncheon except the fine, embroidered centre- 
piece of linen, and under each plate the doily 
to match. This gives a charming effect, but it 
is in better taste at present to use a fine damask 
table-cloth. Like most attractive fads, this one 
of eating from the " bare boards " was soon 
overdone, and gradually lost favor with people 
who are sticklers for the best form. 

In autumn or winter, on dark, dull days, the 
dining-room may be illuminated for a hancheon 
by was tapers or whatever artificial light is 
available, only be sure it is a soft and becoming 
light. A spring or summer luncheon is best 
served by the light of the blessed sunshine, tem- 
pered by the lace or silk drapery of the win- 
dows. 

The dishes may be served from the pantry or 
side table; though it is proper for the hostess 
to serve salads, desserts, or coffee, if she 



38 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

wishes. If a butler is waiting at table, he will 
be in afternoon livery. A waitress wears the 
usual black gown with white cap, cuffs, collar, 
and apron. Soup is served in small cups in- 
stead of in plates, and as a rule not more than 
two wines are served. If but one wine is on 
the table it may be sauterne or claret. If two 
are served, sherry and sauterne will be appro- 
priate. 

In preparing a menu for a formal luncheon, 
it is well to bear in mind that women are fond 
of dainties rather than substantials ; also that 
it is best to avoid too elaborate a bill of fare. 
Do not have too many courses. Oysters on the 
half-shell are generally served if in season, and 
these are followed by a clear soup or bouiJlon. 
Some preparation of lobster is always appreci- 
ated by the feminine guest, and this should fol- 
low the soup. Sweetbreads, chicken, or some- 
thing more substantial is then served ; but it is 
best to omit a heavy roast and a variety of 
vegetables. A choice salad should have place 
on the menu, and there should be a dainty des- 
sert and coffee. Cordials are also served at 
the last. Dishes of fine bonbons and the vari- 
ous relishes such as olives, salted almonds, etc., 
are left upon the table throughout the meal. 

The servant announces luncheon to the host- 
ess at the drawing room door, as would be done 



THE FORMAL LUNCHEON 39 



on a dinner occasion, but there is no formality 
in the order of going to the dining-room. The 
graceful hostess will invite her guests to the 
table without stiffness or ceremony, and will 
herself lead the way. If the party is large, 
name-cards are used, as is customary at formal 
dinners, to aid in seating the company. These 
cards may be daintily <lecorated, and are usu- 
ally kept as souvenirs. The hostess on the 
occasion of a formal luncheon wears an after- 
noon costume of cloth or silk. It may be as 
elaborate as she wishes, but is never decollete. 
The guests wear their finest afternoon gowns 
and hats. The hats are not removed at 
luncheon. Wraps, parasols, etc., are left in the 
room appointed for the purpose, to which each 
guest is directed upon her arrival. The general 
rules that apply to dinner-giving are equally 
applicable to the management of a foi"mal 
luncheon. 

The so-called " pink luncheons," " yellow 
luncheons," etc., are easily arranged, and are 
usually suggested by the abundance of some 
flower or other, in the ]\eight of its season. 
For instance, in the month of roses, there is 
an opportunity for a pink luncheon, with the 
coming of the golden-rod one may devise a yel- 
low luncheon. The main point is to develop 
the color-scheme, as it is termed among artiste, 



40 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



as thoroughly as can be done within the limits 
of good taste. Use as much of the chosen color 
in your table and dining-room decorations as 
you can without making things look " messy " 
and cheap. Avoid the use of ribbons, so far as 
possible, and of fussy little knick-knacks in- 
tended as souvenirs. But after all, the " pink," 
" green," " violet," and " yellow " functions 
are in better taste for the entertainments of 
very young girls or children than for guests of 
maturer years. 



THE INFORMAL LUNCHEON 

For the preparation and serving of an infor- 
mal luncheon, one scarcely needs advice. This 
meal, however, like the family dinner, should 
be carefully and daintily served, though it con- 
sist of the simplest viands. Only the members 
of the household may be present at the infor- 
mal luncheon, but it should be so conducted that 
an unexpected guest at this hour would cause 
no greater inconvenience or annoyance than the 
laying of an extra cover. The " picked-up " 
luncheon that obtains in so many homes, and 
which consists of a bite hastily snatched in 
pantry or kitchen by each member of the fam- 
ily, as it suits his or her convenience, ought to 
be abolished. In its stead there should be a 
regular hour for this midday meal, and some 
special preparation for it, however simple. It 
is worth while for the members of the house- 
hold who are at home at this time of the day 
to meet for a half-hour of pleasant chat, and a 
cup of tea or coffee. The preparation of 
luncheon costs but little extra labor on the part 
of housekeeper or maid, or both, and it means 
much in the way of mental and bodily rest and 
refreshment for all concerned. 
4t 



SUPPERS 

The modern supper is not, as a rule, the first 
and foremost object of an evening's entertain- 
ment, but is usually an adjunct to some other 
form of festivity, such as a theatre or card 
party, or a reception. Among the exceptions 
to this are the so-called game, wine, and fish 
suppers, popular among the " men-folk." 

Suppers are of various degrees of formality 
—from the delightfully informal chafing-dish 
" spread " to an affair scarcely less elaborate 
than the formal dinner. It is not in the nature 
of things, however, that this function should be 
severely dignified or overly conventional ; there 
is apparently something electric in the atmos- 
phere of the supper-room that precludes so- 
lemnity and induces gayety, and it is just this 
atmosphere that renders the supper the most 
delightful of feasts. 

To begin with the more formal supper, such 
as would be prepared for an evening reception 
or some other large affair, it may be said that 
in the manner of setting and decorating the 
table, and in the manner of serv-ing, there is 
no variation from the general rules applying to 

42 



SUPPERS 43 

those features of the formal dinner. The menu 
will be elaborate, but not so heavy as that pre- 
pared for a dinner; game, salads, entrees, etc., 
take the place of the substantial roasts and 
vegetables, and soup gives place to bouillon 
served in fine cups. Oysters on the half-shell 
are always in order, and there may be wines 
if desired. A representative menu for a sup- 
per of this kind is as follows: 

SUPPER MENU 

Oyster Cocktail, 

Stuffed Olives, 

Bouillon in Cups, 

Devilled Crabs, 

Boiled Spring Chicken, 

Julienne Potatoes, 

Waldorf Salad, 

Roman Punch, 

(Wines), 

Coffee. 

In setting the table for the large supper 
which usually follows an evening party or re- 
ception, and at which a less degree of for- 
mality prevails, it is customary to have piles of 
plates and napkins, and a plentiful supply of 
knives, forks, and spoons conveniently at hand 
upon a side table. At a strictly formal supper, 



44 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

waiters attend to the serving, following the 
rules for serving a dinner, but where there is 
less conventionality, it is in good form for the 
men of the party to see that the ladies are com- 
fortably served, even though each man among 
them must become, pro tern., a waiter himself. 

The illumination and decoration of the sup- 
per table are largely a matter of individual 
taste, but it will be well to read what is said 
on this subject under the head of " The Formal 
Dinner." 

Do not make the mistake so commonly made 
in preparing a small supper — of having an 
over-elaborate menu. The tea and bread and 
butter of " Cranford " days will not suffice, but 
there are so many combinations of appetizing 
viands suitable for such an entertainment that 
it should be no difficult matter to prepare an 
attractive menu. Sandwiches, one kind of 
salad,— lobster or chicken, — ^^dainty cakes and 
ices, and coffee are as much as one need have. 

If it is avoidable, never, under any circum- 
stances, expose your guests to the horrors of a 
" stand-up " supper — that particular form of 
inquisition which consists in bestowing upon 
each victim a napkin and a general assortment 
of tableware which, in the natural order of 
things, he would need at least three pairs of 
hands to manage. There are few objects more 



SUPPERS 45 

pitiable than a man with a fragile cup and 
saucer in one hand, a plate of cake in the other, 
a napkin dangling uselessly from his trembling 
fingers, and not so much as a bit of floor space 
at his disposal for the safe deposit of these in- 
cumbrances. Don't do it. Better have no re- 
fresliments at all than to serve them in this 
way. 

The use of a number of small tables instead 
of a large one is allowable, and, in some cases, 
necessary. Four guests to each table is the 
usual arrangement. 



CHAFING-DISH SUPPERS 

The chafing-dish is a metal utensil consist- 
ing of a receptacle in which food may be cooked, 
and a lamp or burner of some sort for supply- 
ing heat. There are many savory viands that 
can be prepared in a chafing-dish, and it is 
especially popular with those who live in studio 
quarters or in some other way that necessitates 
** light housekeeping." The amateur in chaf- 
ing-dish cookery is usually content if she 
learns to make a Welsh rarebit or an oyster 
stew; she does it " for the fun of the thing," 
and is not ambitious to shine as an expert. But 
one who is sufficiently interested in the method 
of cooking may learn to prepare a goodly num- 
ber of appetizing dishes, and her chafing-dish 
" spreads " need never become monotonous 
for the lack of variety. 

The idea in giving a chafing-dish supper is to 
have one principal viand which will be cooked 
by the hostess at the table, in the presence of 
the guests. The other dishes upon the menu 
will be prepared in advance and will consist of 
a few articles that " go " suitably with the 
chafing-dish preparation; for instance, if a 
46 



CHAFING-DISH SU PPERS 47 

Welsh rarebit is served, there may be a cup of 
bouillon preceding it, and thin slices of bread 
and butter, and coffee. If one chafing-dish will 
not cook a sufficient supply for the company, 
two may be used. This, however, means two 
cooks, instead of one; and the " cook," by 
the way, must know the part thoroughly, for 
it is unpardonable to bungle before one's 
guests. 

In setting the table for the chafing-dish sup- 
per, see that nothing superfluous is placed 
upon it — even the cloth may be dispensed with 
and doilies used, if desired. The chafing-dish 
stands in front of the hostess; around it, con- 
venient to her hand, are the utensils and vari- 
ous ingredients which she will need. Nothing 
should be missing, for it may spoil the dish 
to have it wait at a critical moment while the 
missing article is brought. It is the privilege 
of the guests to watch the preparation of the 
dish, though they should not do so in silence, 
and with too much intentness. Bright conver- 
sation, a little witty " guying " of the " cook," 
and much good-natured joking are usually the 
order of the day — or rather, of the night — and 
if the " cook " is sure of herself she will not 
be made nervous by it. 

Any of the following dishes, and many be- 
side, are suitable for chafing-dish cookery : 



48 



THE MODERN HOSTESS 



Lobster a la Newburg 
Scrambled Eggs 
Omelets 
Oyster Stew 
Broiled Oysters 
Terrapin 
Creamed Chicken 



Cream Toast 
Welsh Rarebit 
Broiled Chicken 
Creamed Codfish 
Creamed Lobster 
Oysters a la Neivhurg 
Panned Oysters 



For recipes and many other dishes see Index. 



BREAKFASTS 

The formal breakfast — or perhaps it would 
be more accurate to say the company breakfast, 
for this meal is not as a rule very formal — is 
much in favor with people of the leisure class, 
and also with the artist and litterateur, who 
frequently have considerable time to kill. It 
is an exceedingly pleasant mode of entertain- 
ment when successfully conducted and also 
possesses the advantage, for people of limited 
income, of being as inexpensive an affair as one 
wishes to make it. The hour for a breakfast 
is usually twelve o'clock, but very often it is as 
early as ten ; never later than noon, for it would 
then infringe upon the hours appointed by cus- 
tom for luncheons. 

Invitations to a breakfast may be by note or, 
if the occasion is one of especial importance, 
by engraved card. It is not necessary to send 
them out so long in advance of the date as is 
customary in giving a dinner. A week's notice 
is usually sufficient. A hostess who desires to 
be quite unconventional may send her visiting 
cards with the line of invitation added beneath 
her name, as follows: 

49 



50 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

Breakfast, Tuesday, October fifteenth. 

The menu for a breakfast may be more or 
less elaborate, but it should begin with fruit, 
and should include fish of some kind, an omelet 
or other preparation of eggs, meat, dainty bis- 
cuits, rolls, etc., and tea, coffee, and chocolate. 
At a very elaborate breakfast such delicacies 
as lobster, broiled chicken, sweetbreads, and 
mushrooms may be served. Potatoes are, of 
course, present in some form. Everything is 
most delicately and attractively prepared. 
There are a variety of pretty ways to serve 
fruit; grapefruit, oranges, and melons all ad- 
mit of several methods of preparation, recipes 
for which may be found elsewhere in these 
pages. 

The hostess pours the tea or coffee at a break- 
fast and the maid passes the cups and other 
dishes. In the essential details the service does 
not differ from that of a dinner or luncheon, 
though there is, of course, a freedom from any 
sense of formality. Men attending a breakfast 
wear morning dress, and ladies wear street cos- 
tume. The ladies do not remove their hats or 
bonnets. The dining-room is lighted by the 
sunshine on such an occasion, and care should 
be taken to have plenty of flowers about the 
Toom. 

Guests should not linger long after leaving 



BREAKFASTS 5J 

the dining-room, for their visit lias been com- 
pleted at the table, and it must be borne in mind 
that one's hostess may have other engagements 
to fill during the afternoon, even though she 
may politely seem to have unlimited leisure. 

The family breakfast is not, as a rule, the 
pleasant meal it ought to be. Most people, if 
asked, would declare emphatically that they en- 
joy their dinner more than any other meal; 
many would stare at the mere suggestion of an 
enjoyable breakfast, reluctant to believe that 
such an anomaly could exist. Yet there are a 
few benighted individuals who hold that the 
morning meal is the best of all. It is difficult, 
however, to make it attractive in the household 
whose members either cannot or will not come 
together promptly at the chosen hour. 

The head of the house, hurrying off to busi- 
ness, snatches an early bite alone, or perhaps 
in the company of one or more of the children 
who have to be at school on time; the girls of 
the household rise later and straggle into the 
dining-room at their own sweet will; the 
mother, if she is the right kind, is on hand from 
start to finish and sees to the feeding of her 
entire flock. But what an uncomfortable feed- 
ing it is ! Part of the family hurried out of all 
reason, and the others keeping back the day's 
work bv their leisurelv rising and dressing. 



52 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

The family doesn't really come together in any 
sort of comfort until the dinner hour. It is a 
great thing in a family to have the members 
meet in the morning, if only for fifteen minutes ; 
to meet cheerfully and hopefully and to show 
an interest in one another's duties for the day. 
A little agreeable talk, a little good-natured 
chaffing, a cheery word of adieu at the moment 
of parting, mean much and cost little. 



AFTEKNOON TEAS 

The term " Afternoon Tea," as it is used in 
this country, refers more especially to the social 
aspect of tea-drinking rather than the " Five- 
o 'Clock Tea " of the domestic circle. The cus- 
tom of serving tea between the luncheon and 
dinner hours is an imported one, coming to 
America from England, where, among both 
high and low, rich and poor, the afternoon cup 
of tea is an almost indispensable part of the 
domestic routine. In America the six-o'clock 
dinner prevails very generally, and the * ' Five- 
o 'Clock Tea " custom has gained comparatively 
little foothold; it has been adopted by the leisure 
classes, however, and is also popular with the 
college girl, the bachelor maid, the artist, and 
the so-called Bohemian circle. 

The American hostess has made the most of 
the social possibilities of tea-drinking, and 
these are varied and attractive. The evolution 
of the simple five-o'clock refreshment into the 
elaborate entertainment known as a " Tea " 
has been gradual. Originally, the purpose of 
the "Afternoon Tea" was practical rather 
than social. In the country homes of England, 
53 



54 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

during the sporting seasons, a " bite and sup " 
were offered to the tired sportsman upon his 
return from field or wood, in order that he 
might not perish of starvation before the din- 
ner hour — usuallj' eight o'clock. In America 
the average citizen has no real need of refresh- 
ment between his luncheon and dinner, but the 
afternoon cup of tea found favor, nevertheless, 
and has gained rapidly in popularity. A great 
many hostesses, with an eye to economy, per- 
haps, make the formal tea their principal mode 
of entertaining. In many homes tea is served 
daily at five o'clock; it is a pleasant custom 
and should not be confined to the family of 
wealth and leisure. At this hour those mem- 
bers of the household who are at home should, 
if possible, come together in drawing-room or 
living-room, or on the veranda when the season 
is propitious, and, laying aside the cares of the 
day, enjoy a half-hour of social intercourse. 
It means but little extra work, even in the house 
where no maid is employed. There is no table- 
setting to be done, and no dishes to wash except 
the few cups, saucers, and spoons, and brewing 
utensils that are used. 

Special tables are made for tea service. The 
proper table is rather low and not too large. 
Neither should it be too light, or it will easily 
upset. A form of table much in favor is, iu 



AFTERNCX)N TEAS 55 



reality, a series of three or four, or even more, 
tables of graduated sizes, enclosed one in an- 
other when not in use, and called a " nest of 
tables." When this is used, the maid draws 
the little tables from their place and sets them, 
as directed, about the room. The largest one 
is set before the hostess, or whoever pours 
the tea, and the others are useful for the 
guests. 

The hostess, or whoever presides over thetea^ 
pot, should see that her chair is oue that allows 
unrestricted freedom of movement. The pour- 
ing of tea possesses possibilities of its own for 
displaying to advantage the graces of figure 
and motion. The tea table of the family circle 
is never " set." When the tea hour arrives 
the housemaid also arrives, bearing a tray con- 
taining the various appurtenances for " brew- 
ing " and serving, and this is placed upon the 
table before her mistress. Tea-kettles, with 
their little spirit lamp beneath, are made of 
brass, silver, copper, or other material, and arc 
good to look upon. Whatever metal is used, it 
should be in a high state of polish. Taste in 
the matter of teapots is almost as varied as the 
designs of the teapots themselves, and the only 
advice worth offering is to have the daintiest 
and best you can afford. A " cosey," which is 
a wadded covering made to fit over the pot to 



56 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

keep it warm while the tea ' ' draws, ' ' is another 
essential of the table. 

As to the making of tea, it may not be out 
of place to say here that it is worth while to 
learn the right way. English visitors to our 
country sometimes complain that the Ameri- 
cans make poor tea. Many of them do, un- 
doubtedly. There are even benighted souls 
here and there who believe in boiled tea, or who 
would look at one in mild surprise if told that 
the beverage which has been steeping in the 
teapot on the back of the stove during the whole 
afternoon is not quite as good as the fresh-made 
cup. This sort of tea-maker lives in England 
also, and probably wherever tea is used. 

The American hostess knows, as a rule, both 
how to buy and how to make tea. It pays to 
buy the best; the best costs considerably more 
than the ordinary quality, but goes farther. 
Recipes for the making of tea may be found on 
another page of this work. The assistance of 
the maid is not required for the simple five- 
o'clock tea service, even when guests are pres- 
ent. After she has placed the tray before her 
mistress she may retire. The hostess, or a 
daughter or friend of the house, pours the tea, 
and the guests help themselves and each other. 
There is no formality about it. The keynote of 
the afternoon tea should be sociability. The 



AFTERNOON TEAS 57 



only necessary accompaniment in the way of 
solid refreshment is bread and butter,— the 
bread cut very thin,— dainty wafers, or delicate 
cakes of some kind. 

This, of course, is " Afternoon Tea " in its 
simplest and most unconventional form. Vari- 
ation on a more elaborate scale is the weekly 
' ' At Home, ' ' which has grown in popularity with 
many hostesses. Here the service is much like 
that described above, though it is permissible 
to add something more to the menu. For this 
form of entertainment, cards of invitation (see 
" Invitations ") are issued early in the season. 
" At Home " days may be weekly, for a period 
of several weeks, or may extend throughout the 
social season. Upon these occasions the tea 
may be made or poured by the hostess herself, 
or it may be brought in by the maid and passed 
upon a tray to the guests. Most hostesses, 
however, delight in their pretty table and its 
dainty appointments, and would be loth to 
relegate the pouring of the tea to the kitchen 
or pantry. There is usually no table set for 
this simpler " At Home," but, where tea is 
poured in the drawing-room, the maid brings 
the tray, as described before, and places it upon 
the table. Late-comers must, of course, have 
freshly made tea; the tea-ball, a tiny metal con- 
trivance for making tea in the cup as it is re- 



58 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

quired, without using the teapot, will be found 
a great convenience. The assistance of the 
maid may be required where many guests are 
present, but such is the nature of the informal 
" Afternoon Tea," even on this larger scale, 
that her services, after arranging the table, 
may be dispensed with if desired. She should 
stay within call, however, in case she is needed. 

The menu may include both tea and coffee or 
tea and chocolate. There may be one or two 
kinds of dainty sandwiches, and baskets or 
plates of fancy cakes. Plates and napkins need 
not be offered unless the hostess prefers. A 
plate containing thin slices of lemon should be 
upon the tray for those who prefer their tea 
a la Russe — or in the so-called " Eussian " 
style. A dish of fine bonbons may also be 
passed. Do not be tempted, however, in pre- 
paring a menu for the regular " At Home " 
occasion, to extend it beyond the limits here 
prescribed. Bouillon, oysters, salads, ices, 
fruit, etc., are not expected, and are certainly 
not in good taste. 

The really formal " Tea " is hardly a 
" Tea " at all, though the cards of invitation 
indicate to the prospective guests that the 
" beverage that cheers " will be dispensed 
upon the date and at the hours mentioned. A 
hostess may elect to give two or more of these 



AFTERNOON TEAS 59 



elaborate "Teas" during the social season. 
Where her circle of friends and acquaintances 
is very large, she may invite part of them for 
one date and others for another. In this way 
a number of social obligations may be " paid 
oif " with comparative ease and economy. The 
" Tea " of this sort, however, is in reality an 
afternoon reception. The hostess invites one 
or more of her women friends, usually those of 
the younger set, to assist her. Women attend- 
ing a daytime reception of this kind wear street 
or carriage costume, and the hostess and her 
assistants are gowned in their handsomest re- 
ception attire, which is never, by the way, 
decollete. Men attending a "Tea" do not 
wear evening clothes. The hostess stands at 
the drawing-room door to receive her guests. 
A handshake, a few pleasant words, a sugges- 
tion to each that she go to the dining-room and 
have a cup of tea, are all that is necessary. 
Guests meet acquaintances among those assem- 
bled and do not look to their hostess for any 
special attention. A " Tea " of this size dif- 
fers from the smaller affairs in the manner of 
serving refreshments. The large number of 
guests precludes the possibility of pouring and 
serving tea and dispensing other refreshments 
in the drawing-rooms, and therefore it becomes 
necessary to lay the table in the dining-room 



THE MODERN HOSTESS 



or in any other suitable room connected with 
the dramng-room. The table wears its finest 
damask; at one end is placed, usually, the tea 
service, and at the other a chocolate or coffee 
service. Friends of the hostess preside over 
these beverages, and waitresses are at hand to 
pass refreshments and to see that the table is 
kept fresh and in perfect order throughout the 
afternoon. 

The menu for a " Tea " of this kind may in- 
clude bouillon, two or more kinds of the most 
delicate sandwiches, cakes, bonbons, such rel- 
ishes as salted almonds and olives, and tea, 
coifee, and chocolate. A punch or ice is also 
permissible. Artificial lighting of the rooms is 
customary for the occasion. 

There is still another degree of " Tea," but 
it is so very remotely connected with the idea 
of tea-drinking that it scarcely deserves a place 
in this chapter. Properly speaking, it is an 
afternoon reception on a very elaborate scale. 
" Tea," to be sure, may be found in a modest 
corner of the menu, but the latter includes so 
much beside that it is more like a luncheon or 
supper menu. "Waiters attend to all serving, 
and there is no pouring of tea by hostess or 
friends; nor do the guests busy themselves in 
attending to the wants of one another. The 
" Afternoon Tea " proper is characterized, as 



AFTERNOON TEAS 61 



has been said before, by an atmosphere of sim- 
plicity, informality, and cosiness. 

A form of " Tea " much in favor a few years 
ago, and not yet relegated altogether to the 
limbo of discarded fads, is the pink, blue, or 
yellow Tea— or whatever the scheme of decora- 
tion may be. There is no reason why the color- 
scheme " Tea " should not hold its own so far 
as the attractiveness of decoration is concerned, 
for it really admits of very pretty effects when 
artistically conceived and executed. One must 
consider, however, in planning a pink or yellow 
Tea, not only the table decoration and the har- 
mony of the viands in point of color, but must 
not forget the predominating colors of the walls 
and furnishings of the dining-room. Unless 
one is sure of her eye for color combinations, 
or has a friend of artistic tastes who will ad- 
vise her, it would be best not to attempt this 
particular form of entertainment. 



TABLE MANNERS 

THE COEKECT POSITION AT TABLE 

The proper position at table is to sit erect 
with the chest or waist just a few inches from 
the table. You should never lounge or slip 
down into your chair ; neither should you reach 
forward to decrease the distance between your 
mouth and the food set before you, as if you 
begrudged the distance. 

It is customary for gentlemen to remain 
standing until the hostess is seated, and this 
custom should be regarded, whether the hostess 
is the leader of society or his mother. 

It is highly improper to support the elbows 
by placing them on the table, to say nothing of 
the fact that it is extremely ungraceful, and no 
condition of intimacy should permit this; 
neither is it permissible to play with the knives, 
forks, or spoons, make sketches on the cloth 
with the handle of a spoon, or clink the glasses 
together. During moments when not engaged 
in the act of eating, the hands should lie quietly 
in the lap, and all actions should simulate as 
far as possible the repose of bearing which 
alone marks the well-bred man or woman. 



TABLE MANNERS 63 

It is well to remember, in all of these matters 
pertaining to etiquette, that while you may not 
be noticed particularly if you do everything in 
a proper and graceful manner, you are sure to 
arouse adverse comment when you deviate from 
the correct way of conducting yourself. 

THE NAPKIN 

This article is not intended to take the place 
of the " bib " of babyhood, and for that reason 
should not be spread out over the lap or chest ; 
and, above all things, it must not be inserted 
at one corner into the top of the waistcoat or 
collar. While it is not for ornament but in- 
tended for use, it is sufficient and proper to 
lay it across the knees, unfolding it but once. 
When eating at a restaurant, or at the board 
of a friend, you are not supposed necessarily 
to carefully fold it into the original creases last 
produced by the laundry. In most American 
homes napkins are used but once before being 
washed, and for that reason it is entirely 
proper, when arising from the table, to place it 
beside your plate, unfolded. On the other 
hand, there are occasions on which it is well to 
make an exception to this rule ; as, for instance, 
if, while visiting a friend for a day or two, you 
notice the host or hostess fold his or her napkin 
carefully, you may be pretty sure that it is one 



6i THE MODERN HOSTESS 

of the households where a fresh napkin is not 
supplied at every meal. 

KNIFE AND FORK 

So much has been written about the man who 
conveys food to his mouth with his knife that 
it is hardly necessary to point out that it is not 
proper. The knife is, however, used exclusively 
for cutting the food, and should always be held 
in the right hand. Likewise the fork is found 
in the right hand when the knife is not in use, 
and should not be made to take the place of a 
spoon, except for such Wishes as peas, beans, 
etc. 

It is equally bad manners to turn the fork 
into a shovel by loading it with a combination 
of various foods and then transporting the 
whole to the mouth; that is as bad as mashing 
food in between the prongs of the fork, holding 
both knife and fork in the hand, high up in the 
air, while your plate is being passed for a 
second helping, or, what is equally bad, plac- 
ing the knife and fork on the cloth beside the 
plate, or with the tips of each on the plate-edge, 
when not actively engaged in eating. The 
proper way, of course, when you are not using 
either your knife or fork, is to place them on 
the plate together, with their tips in the centre 
of the plate and the handles on the edge. 



TABLE MANNERS 65 



It is difficult to enumerate all of the dishes 
which should be eaten with the fork. Its use 
is not confined, however, to meats, vegetables, 
and fish, but takes in ices, melons, salads, and 
frozen puddings. Terrapin and lobster, as 
well as oysters and clams are fork foods, and 
you should never cut your lettuce with a knife. 
Fold the leaves up with your fork and lift them 
to your mouth. 

THE SPOON 

You should never drink your coffee, tea, or 
bouillon from a spoon, or allow the spoon, 
which is furnished simply for the purpose of 
stirring or testing the temperature of the con- 
tents of your cup, to remain in it. This is as 
bad as to lift a spoon full of soup and attempt 
to cool it by blowing upon it, which is, as we 
all know, a habit taught in the nursery. Here 
may also be mentioned that the proper way to 
dip soup from the plate is away from you in- 
stead of toward you, and that it should be taken 
from the side of the spoon rather than from 
the end. It is highly improper to tip your 
soup plate to get that last half-spoonful. 

Numerous foods must, of course, be eaten 
with a spoon, such as fruit salads, oranges and 
grapefruit, cereals, hot puddings with sauces, 
etc. 



M THE MODERN HOSTESS 

THE FINGER-BOWL 

The finger-bowl is used at the end of a meal 
and at the end of a fruit course. When using 
the bowl, it is not proper to put both hands in 
at the same time, but one at a time, nor should 
one splash up the water in an effort to wash 
the entii-e hand. It is supposed that the tips 
of the fingers only need cleansing, and a little 
rubbing of the tips together will be sufficient. 
Then they should be dried with the napkin on 
the knees. 

DELIBERATION AND NATURALNESS 

You should always eat slowly, both for the 
sake of your digestion and for appearances. 
One should imitate Gladstone, who made it a 
rule to chew each mouthful twenty-five times. 
This suggestion is a good one for the health, 
and even though our intention in this article 
is not to give hygienic directions, this sugges- 
tion is made here for its value to the physical 
comfort of the diner. The other side of the 
question is that it comports more with your 
personal dignity to eat slowly. When you get 
into the habit of eating slowly you are more 
likely to avoid the more serious blunders, such 
as sucking up a liquid from a spoon, scraping 
the bottom of a plate for the last particle of 



TABLE MANNERS 67 



any dish, or, as one writer has aptly put it, 
' ' drumming on a knife-blade in order to distrib- 
ute salt on meat or vegetables." Above all, it is 
pretty hard to talk well when your mouth is 
continually full of large portions of food, and 
a man or woman is only considered a good 
diner-out if he can find time to converse intelli- 
gently and easily, and not as though he be- 
grudged the absence of constant mouthfuls of 
food. 

Do not, when salting meats or vegetables, 
first place a quantity of salt on the cloth beside 
your plate. It should always be placed on the 
edge of the plate— and do not for the purpose 
of getting it there run your knife-point into the 
large salt receptacle, but use the small salt 
spoon, which will be found in the salt recep- 
tacle. Then do not use your thumb and fore- 
finger to distribute it, but use only the little salt 
that will adhere to the prongs of the fork or a 
little on the knife-point. You will find that a 
little is sufficient to flavor any dish. Besides, 
the average home at which you will dine has 
a cook who is supposed to know how to season 
dishes. 

If you should want pai'ticularly to eat a last 
morsel of any one dish that you find on your 
plate, don't push it on your fork with the tip 
of your finger. If you must have it, it is better 



08 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

to use a bit of bread or the knife-point instead 
of the finger. 

- It is supposed, when you lift food from the 
plate with your fork or spoon, that you want 
to get it to your mouth, and for that reason 
you should not arrest the mouthful in question 
in mid-air while you go on with the conversa- 
tion. 

ACCIDENTS 

Accidents will occur at the best-regulated 
dinner tables as well as in families. When they 
occur, however, it is best not to call particular 
attention to yourself too strongly by too pro- 
fuse apologies, and, above all, " don't keep it 
up." A simple appealing glance to the hostess 
and a " Pray, forgive me, I am very awkward," 
etc., is sufficient. The accomplished hostess 
will endeavor to open the conversation at once 
on a new topic, as if nothing had happened. If 
the inevitable has happened to you, however, 
in the form of a bit of grease or something 
similar which has dropped to your apparel, you 
must not remove it with a knife, but the end of 
your napkin must suffice. 

A FEW don'ts 

If you are a g-uest at a formal dinner or 
luncheon or elaborate breakfast, do not ask for 
a second helping to any of the dishes. The re- 



TABLE MANNERS 69 



verse is true at the informal friendly dinner, 
for there the request for a second helping is 
a compliment to the hostess. 

Do not, if you are host or hostess at a formal 
meal, cause delay by requesting guests to take 
a second helping of any one dish that has al- 
ready been served; and here the reverse is 
again true; for at the little informal dinner the 
hostess may invite the guest to have a second 
helping. 

Never take a bite of the dinner roll which you 
will find in the napkin. You are supposed to 
eat of it, of course, but should break it into 
pieces the size of a mouthful, and then eat it 
as you break it off. Cake may be eaten in the 
same way, or with the aid of a fork. 

Never place a slice of bread on the cloth be- 
side your plate and spread it all over with but- 
ter and then cut it. It is not fair to the cloth, 
and besides, you will find a bread-and-butter 
plate provided for that purpose. Bread is to 
be eaten by breaking off small pieces and then 
buttering them just before placing them in the 
mouth. 

Don't bite into a whole peach at table the 
same as you would if you were out under the 
tree. It and similar fruits should be quartered, 
peeled, and cut into mouthfuls. When eating 
grapes don't blow the pits into the plate and 



70 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

all over the table. They should be dropped 
into the hand from the mouth and placed on the 
plate. 

Do not take chicken-bones and chops into the 
fingers and eat from them as though you had 
a roasting ear. There is no other way in the 
case of the corn, but if you are not clever 
enough to cut away most of the chicken, game, 
or chop from the bone that has fallen to your 
lot, you ought to be made to do without such 
morsels. 

Asparagus comes in for another don't. It 
should not be taken up with the fingers. That 
part which you can eat with a relish should be 
cut off with the fork, and you will thus avoid the 
uninviting spectacle of an open mouth hoping 
to catch the good end of a long stem as it is 
hoisted ready to be dropped. 

Do not commit the reprehensible act of push- 
ing away your plate when you are through with 
the meal or when you have finished a course, 
and do not brush up the crumbs around your 
plate. These are the faults of the thoughtless, 
and one should not show himself absent-minded 
at dinner. 

WINES 

At a formal dinner the servant is supposed 
to replenish the wineglasses from time to time, 
and he generally does so under direction of the 



TABLE MANNERS 



host, who must keep his eyes open to instruct, 
especially in regard to the glass of any partic- 
ular guest whom the servant may have over- 
looked. Guests at a large dinner never ask to 
be helped to wine. Should the guest not desire 
a second glass, a simple " No, thank you " is 
sufficient. 

The host is privileged, however, at an infor- 
mal dinner, to ask a guest to help himself to 
wine, and if the wine is on the table, a guest 
may help himself without asking permission, 
except if the guest be a woman. Women guests 
wait for the gentleman beside them to fill the 
glasses, or look to the servants to do this. 

IN THE WAY or REMINDERS 

Upon the arrival of the first guests the host 
and hostess should be ready in the drawing- 
room to greet them cordially as they arrive. 
They must be at particular pains to see that 
their guests are introduced to each other. 
Should any of the guests be more than fifteen 
minutes late, the hostess may order dinner 
served. 

Guests will find their seats by moving about 
the table until they find the cards bearing their 
names at the covers so designated for them. 

Late arrivals at a formal dinner present their 
apologies to the hostess, who does not arise 



72 THE MODER N HOSTESS 

except in the case of a woman guest. The 
host, however, partly to turn attention away 
from the interruption of the late arrival, rises 
and assists in seating the delinquent. In such 
cases, however, the dinner is not delayed to 
enable the late-comer to catch up, but he is ex- 
pected to take it up at the course that is then 
being served, or, if about to serve the next 
course, he waits. 

At most formal dinners it is customary for 
the ladies to take their coffee or liqueurs in the 
drawing-room. The signal for this movement 
is made just before coffee is served by the host- 
ess, who catches the eye of the lady at the right 
of the host, and rises. At this signal all the 
guests rise, the men standing aside to let the 
ladies pass easily. 

The men then gather around the table with 
their host for a twenty or twenty-five minute 
enjoyment of coffee, wine, and cigars, at the 
end of which the host proposes to join the 
ladies, which is done at once. At less formal 
affairs it is customary and permissible for the 
ladies to remain with the gentlemen in the 
dining-room while they enjoy their coffee and 
cigars. 

THE GUEST 

Promptness in arriving should be the watch- 
word of the would-be diner. It is his duty to 



TABLE MANNERS 73 

arrive within fifteen minutes of the hour set 
in the invitation. One thing, however, he must 
avoid in his efforts to get there on time. He 
must not arrive even one minute before the 
time indicated. Few things may provoke more 
annoyance on the part of the hostess than the 
too-previous guest. The hostess is expected in 
the drawing-room promptly on the hour set, 
but she may not be ready for you before the 
exact hour, and a too-previous arrival may do 
much to disturb the even temperament of the 
hostess. 

THE GTTEST AT TABLE 

Wlien once seated in the dining-room with 
the lady with whom you are expected to cast 
your lot during the dinner, you are expected to 
do more than eat. A special short chapter 
will be found in another part of this volume, 
which speaks of the proper use to be made of 
the knives, forks, etc. A word may be spoken 
here, however, in regard to the general bear- 
ing. One should not help himself too liberally 
to the various courses, or make flattering and 
audible comments upon their quality. Neither 
should any dish be refused, even if the guest is 
dieting and knows the particular dish will be 
harmful to his digestion or not quite to his 
taste; for the hostess may observe and be 



74 THE MODE RN HOSTESS 

thrown into needless anxiety as to the thorough- 
ness of the enjoyment she is distributing — or 
the adverse comment of other diners may be 
excited. Better far, take a little of each dish 
and pretend to relish it. 

The fact that a gentleman takes a lady in to 
dinner does not necessarily indicate that his 
entire conversation and attention must be 
directed at her exclusively. A gentleman is 
expected to entertain his lady partner to the 
best of his ability, but not to the exclusion of 
the others near at hand, nor need he deny him- 
self the pleasure of general conversation alto- 
gether. 

Guests may leave as soon as dinner is over- 
it would not be polite to leave before; and it 
would be better to remain where possible for at 
least ten minutes or such a matter, for in the 
large centres many entertainments may occur 
on the same evening, and some of the diners 
may be in great demand at other functions ; so 
that ten minutes in the drawing-room is suffi- 
cient courtesy, and, with proper explanations, 
the busy guest may go on to the next function. 

ADIEUX TO THE HOSTESS 

Personal leave-taking of the hostess must not 
be omitted. Even in numerous company, or if 
the hostess is much engaged at the moment, the 



TABLE MANNERS 75 

retiring guest must seeli her out, and with 
graceful thanlvs for her hospitality, bid her 
adieu. Tlie same is true of the host, except 
that, having made the graceful speech to his 
wife, it need not be repeated so impressively 
to him. One is also expected to bid adieu to 
friends who may be among the company, but 
not necessarily to new acquaintances; if they 
be at a distance, a simple bow is sufficient. In 
the case of a gentleman, however, he will of 
coiirse cross the room, if need be, to give fare- 
well to the lady who gave him her arm at 
dinner. 



INTEODUCTIONS 

An effective introduction is rare; the cere- 
mony, though a slight one, is yet full of im- 
portance, and, in the varied phases that sur- 
round it, one finds opportunity and need for all 
the tact and grace at her command. No elab- 
orate formula need be studied; the simplest 
form is always the best; and as the object in 
view is that the unacquainted parties may 
learn each other's names, for humanity's sake 
avoid the common fault of sliding the names 
in a half -articulate murmur — as if they were 
not worth mentioning— but (to paraphrase 0. 
W. Holmes) 

" Speak clearly if you speak at all; 
Carve every name before you let it fall " ; 

and your guests will not need to begin a con- 
versation by begging each other's pardon for 
not " catching the name." 

Introducing men and women, the gentleman 
is presented to the lady, and her name should 
be mentioned first—" Mrs. Eoberts, let me pre- 
sent Mr. Grey "; when a man makes the intro- 
duction, he may say, ' ' Miss Trent, allow me to 
present my friend Mr. Sanders, who is desirous 
76 



INTRODUCTIONS 77 



to know you," thus conveying a delicate com- 
pliment. 

When there is marked difference in the ages, 
the younger woman is presented to the older, 
or the unmarried woman to the matron; a 
young man to a venerable gentleman, and a 
plain member of society to a titled or distin- 
guished personage. On ordinary occasions 
merely to mention the names is sufficient. 
" Mrs. Vernon — this is Mrs. Samoret." 
" Mrs. Wrayburn — Mr. Lightwood." 
Do not make the mistake of following the 
obsolete custom of leading a lady around the 
room, and introducing her to all in rotation. 
In making a lady known to a number at once, 
the hostess would say: " Mrs. Woodcourt, let 
me present Miss Summers on— Miss Edith Sum- 
merson— and Mr. Warren"; or, if "The 
Young Person " is the subject of this somewhat 
trying experience, anything but mentioning the 
names may be dispensed with, as, " Miss 
Nichols, Mrs. Sawyer"; "Miss Brown, Mr. 
Brown." 

It sometimes happens that at the critical mo- 
ment the name of a guest cannot be recalled; 
or, as has in reality occurred, the hostess may 
substitute her own name or some other equally 
familiar for that of the stranger she desires to 
present; but these tricks of memory need not 



78 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

be considei-ed blunders — a little ready wit will 
save the occasion from embarrassment, and, 
indeed, may break the ice of formality and in- 
stitute a " flow of soul " that otherwise might 
have had to struggle for existence. 

The tactful hostess when introducing two 
guests will, if possible, add a few pleasant 
words, disclosing to the new acquaintances that 
they have some interest in common. As for 
instance: " Miss Miller, let me introduce Mr. 
Mason, an enthusiastic Wagnerite like your- 
self "; or, " Mrs. Chalmers, may I present Mr. 
Carter— he has just returned from your favor- 
ite city, Venice." 

It is not unusual for one to become the means 
of making people known to each other who have 
expressed a mutual desire for acquaintance, 
and the occasion may be recognized by some 
happy expression, as: 

' ' I have great pleasure, Mrs. Martyn, in pre- 
senting Mr. Trowbridge;" or, "Mrs. Bard- 
well, I am very glad of this opportunity to pre- 
sent Dr. Davis." 

When introducing one's relatives little cere- 
mony is used: " This is my mother, Mr. 
Smith"; "Miss Lawrence, my brother has 
been wishing to know you," or any similar 
mode, is preferable to anything formal. 

To extend the hand when acknowledging a^ 



INTRODUCTIONS 79 



introduction is an indication of cordial feeling; 
and in her own house a woman never neglects 
this gracious greeting when any one is pre- 
sented to her, with a genial expression of pleas- 
ure, as, " I am very glad to know you, Mrs. 
Perry "; or, " It is a great pleasure to meet 
you, Mr. Eobinson." 

In ceremonious society, however, none but 
the hostess thus welcomes an introduction; it 
is considered sufficient recognition for a woman 
to bow politely and simply repeat the name of 
the person introduced, for the ultra-fashionable 
world considers handshaking a much too ef- 
fusive greeting to bestow upon a stranger. 
Natural impulse should be veiled behind a uni- 
form of reserve, which indicates a character 
like that of the Church of the Laodiceans — 
" neither cold nor hot " — but appearances are 
more often than not deceitful. 

Strict form may be commended as being con- 
venient in crowded rooms; and a young lady 
may always refrain from pronounced enthusi- 
asm; but on most occasions extreme ceremony 
is embarrassing and leaves an unpleasant im- 
pression, thwarting the real purpose of social 
life, mutual good-fellowship, and enjoyment. 
The woman who has a right to the initiative 
will make no mistake in customarily offering 
her hand. 



80 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

The hostess rises in receiving all introduc- 
tions; a woman, when a g-uest, does not rise 
when a man is presented, or when she is one of 
a group to whom a woman is introduced, imless 
the newcomer is older than she, or is a distin- 
guished character; if seated beside the hostess, 
who of course rises in greeting, she then rises 
also — and under all other circumstances. She 
rises in recei^^ng an introduction to another 
woman. It is almost unnecessary to say that a 
man invariably stands in taking part in any 
introduction to any person. 

A guest may not refuse to accept an intro- 
duction made by host or hostess, even though 
it should be to his " dearest foe "; the hostess, 
it is to be presumed, knows nothing of the real 
state of affairs, or she would avoid the risk of 
causing embarrassment. And it is no detrac- 
tion from one's dignity to bow politely, as 
though to a perfect stranger; further com- 
munication can be unostentatiously avoided. 
The unusual but actual incident once occurred 
of a lady's accepting the introduction to an- 
other whom she did not care to know — three 
times in one evening, at a rather crowded re- 
ception; each time she bowed graciously — and 
then became quietly unconscious of the other's 
presence. 



INTRODUCTIONS 



THE TIME FOR INTRODUCTIONS 

The hostess is privileged to introduce to each 
other any persons who may be under her roof. 
In fashionable English society it is the custom 
to consider the mutual acquaintance of guests 
and hostess as " tantamount " — as Mr. Guppy 
would say — to an introduction, which is doubt- 
less correct in theory, and under certain cir- 
cumstances ; but American society is so cosmo- 
politan in character that we find it is " a con- 
dition, not a theory, that confronts us "; and 
this liberal acceptance of the privileges of hos- 
pitality is not always practicable. The tactful 
hostess will see that her guests are presented 
to one another; she will thus place them upon 
a pleasanter footing to start with, and save the 
timid especially from embarrassment. 

At a small dinner the hostess is under obli- 
gation to introduce all her guests to one an- 
other; at a large dinner party those who are 
to go in to the table together must certainly be 
introduced, and as many more as the hostess 
can bring together without disturbing her 
guests or making obvious effort on her part; 
but introductions must not be made at the table. 
Guests gather in the drawing-room, where 
those who have not met before may be easily 
and gracefully made known to each other. 



82 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



On her " At Home " day the h\dy receiving 
introduces every newcomer to the guests who 
may be near; at a reception she presents the 
arrivals to those who assist her in receix-ing, 
but does not, only as a rare exception, leave her 
place to make introductions. 

At a private ball, the hostess introduces her 
guests as they enter to whoever receives with 
her, and makes as many introductions as pos- 
sible during the evening. 

Chaperons present dancing men to their 
charges as they have opportunity ; but at small 
private dances the young people do not as a 
rule wait for the hostess or chaperon to per- 
form the necessary introductions. They find it 
more convenient, and much better fun, no 
doubt, to take the matter into their own hands 
when occasions arise. Girls introduce their 
partners to other girls, and young men see to 
it that their male friends know their young 
Avomen friends. At a private dance the host- 
ess must not forget throughout the evening to 
have a watchful eye for possible wall-flowers. 
She who can save the unpopular or unattrac- 
tive girl a dull or embarrassing evening, with- 
out seeming to have that object in view, will 
have accomplished a graceful and kindly act 
and one of no small difficulty. 

At public halls introductions are not ex- 



INTRODUCTIONS 83 



pected. There is no hostess proper here, aud 
the matter of looking up and introducing part- 
ners for the dances belongs to the chaperon, or 
the escort of a young woman. 

Introductions in the street are seldom neces- 
sary when walking with a friend. Should one 
meet another friend to whom his companion is 
unknown, there is no real need of introducing 
the two, even though a momentary pause is 
made for the exchange of civilities. If, how- 
ever, the conversation seems likely to be pro- 
longed, then introduction should be made. Many 
people seem possessed of a mania for intro- 
ducing. Introductions are thrust upon their 
friends in the most awkward places and at awk- 
ward times. One hurrying to keep a business 
engagement steps into an elevator to be 
whisked to the top floor of a building. In the 
" car " he finds an acquaintance — one of 
the introduction friends— accompanied by a 
stranger, whom she feels obliged to introduce, 
although the words of the ceremony arc 
scarcely spoken before the unhappy victim 
must awkwardly doff his hat and hasten from 
the elevator. The chronic introducer knows no 
limitation in her effort to be sociable and 
friendly; she would feel awkward and embar- 
rassed if compelled to stand for a moment be- 
tween two acquaintances who were not known 



84 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

to each othei" ; therefore she hastens, regardless 
of the inconvenience of the meeting-place, to 
" do the honors." Don't introduce " right or 
left." It is not expected of you; and if you 
are walking with a friend who meets one who 
is a stranger to you, don't consider it a slight 
if you are not immediately presented. Should 
your friend keep you waiting beyond consid- 
erate limits without an introduction, you are 
at liberty to stroll on without him. 

LETTERS OF INTEODUCTION 

A letter of introduction is, or should be, an 
unsolicited courtesy. To ask for a letter of 
introduction is, for various reasons, not in 
good taste, and no man or woman of good 
breeding would offend in this particular. 
Should one be asked for a letter of introduction 
which he felt the slightest hesitancy about giv- 
ing he would be quite justified in refusing it; 
in doing so, he should not wound the appli- 
cant's feelings. A person of tact can manage 
a delicate point of this kind without gi^dng 
offence. 

It is usual, in sending one friend to another 
with a letter of introduction, to write in ad- 
vance to the prospective recipient of the intro- 
duction, giving him more detailed information 
regarding the bearer of the letter than could 



INTRODUCTIONS 85 



conveniently or properly be written in the letter 
itself. 

A letter of introduction contains little beside 
the few words necessary to make the two people 
known to each other; there is usually a 
courteous line, to the effect that any attention 
shown to the caller will be appreciated. 

In writing an introduction, do not fall into 
the error of mentioning personal matters in 
the same letter. 

A letter of introduction is usually somewhat 
as follows : 

My Deak Mks. Baeten : 

It gives me much pleasure to introduce to 
you my friend Miss Wylie, who ivill make your 
city her home for several months while pursu- 
ing her musical studies. Any courtesy you 
may extend to her ivill he deeply appreciated. 
With kindest regards, I am, 

Sincerely yours, 

Kathebine H. Miller. 

A letter of introduction is not sealed ; to seal 
a note of this kind would be a discourtesy to 
the bearer. A card of introduction is a simpler 
affair. One's visiting card is used for this 
purpose with the name of the friend one desires 
to introduce written at the top, thus: 



86 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

Introducing Miss Edith Bioivne 
Mrs. William Grey 
37 Maple Avenue 

This is enclosed in a card envelope, and, like 
the letter, is left unsealed. In addition to the 
address, one may write on the envelope in the 
lower left-hand corner, " Introducing Miss 
Edith Browne." A man usually presents a 
note of introduction in person. He calls at the 
house, during the proper calling hours, whether 
afternoon or evening, and presents both the 
letter and his own visiting card. He may be 
received at once; but in case the person upon 
whom he has called is not at home, it is usual 
to place his personal visiting card in the en- 
velope with the letter or card of introduction, 
to seal the envelope, and leave it with the ser- 
vant to be delivered. A woman generally de- 
livers a note of introduction through the 
medium of Uncle Sam's post office. She en- 
closes her own card with her address thereon, 
puts a stamp on the envelope, and waits to be 
called upon. 

Upon receiving a letter of introduction from 
a woman, one should go very promptly to call 
upon her, and should afterward extend to her 
suitable form of hospitality. 



INTRODUCTIONS 87 



Upon receiving a letter of introduction from 
a man, a note of acknowledgment should be sent 
to him, followed by an invitation to dinner or 
by the offer of some other courtesy. A man 
who receives a letter introducing a man Is 
under obligations to call upon him and to enter- 
tain him to the best of his ability. 

When from any cause one can neither call 
upon nor extend invitations to the bearer of a 
letter of introduction, a note of explanation 
and kindly regrets should be sent to him 
promptly. 

A lady introduced by letter to a man simply 
mails the letter to him with her card, and may 
expect him to call within a few days. His call 
should be followed by courtesies which he can 
properly offer, but he should not merely call 
and then let the acquaintanceship drop. This 
would not be kind either to the writer or bearer 
of the letter. 

It is graceful on the part of the receiver of 
a letter of introduction to write a pleasant note 
later on to the friend who wrote it. 



CAEDS 

The etiquette of a man's card being simpler, 
we will dispose of him first, so as to make way 
for the lady. 

A man's card is much smaller than a 
woman's, and may, for convenience of carry- 
ing in the waistcoat pocket, be very thin, but 
should be of the finest quality and the neatest 
design, always engraved, not printed, nor, ex- 
cept in emergency, written. This is the most 
preferred style and size : 



Mr. John Henry Ford 

5 West 33rd Street 



Unless followed by " Jr.," the title "Mr." 
should never be omitted. A bachelor may have 
his home address in the right-hand corner, and 
that of his favorite club in the left, or, if of 



CARDS ^ 

nomadic habits, the dub address only on the 
right-hand side. 

A business address must never appear on a 
visiting card. If possible, every Christian 
name should appear in full, but if this form is 
too long, an initial may be substituted for the 
second name, but not for the first— " Mr. 
James K. Hamilton " looks far better than 
would " Mr. J. Kimberley Hamilton." 

The eldest male member of a family may dis- 
pense with the Christian name and appear as 
" Mr. Hamilton," especially if he be of the old- 
est branch of the family. Ben, Jim, Hal, and 
such contractions neither add to the dignity or 
appearance of a card, and should never be seen. 

Although some wealthy bachelors do give 
delightful " At Homes " during the season, 
such dates never appear on a man's card. This 
is a privilege of a lady and a hostess which 
must not be encroached on. 

TITLES ON CARDS 

Americans are most prone to the use of all 
possible titles, and a society notice will read: 
" Mr. Sub-deputy-assistant-eoUector Jinks is a 
great favorite with the ladies of Little-ville." 
Keep these titles off your visiting cards. The 
only persons whose titles are seen on cards are 
the President and Vice-President of the United 



90 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



States, ambassadors, justices of the higher 
courts, clergymen, and officers in the regular 
army and navy above the rank of lieutenant. 

The school-teacher, self -dubbed " Profes- 
sor," and local magistrates known as " Judge," 
should be most particularly careful to be satis- 
fied with plain " Mr." on their cards. 

The card of a lieutenant in the army should 
state simply " Mr. John Victor Allen," with 
" United States Army " in the right-hand cor- 
ner of the card, whilst captains, majors, etc., 
place the title before the full name and desig- 
nate in the corner whether of artillery, cavalry, 
infantry, or the engineering corps. 

A Judge of the Supreme Court places " Mr. 
Justice " before either his surname or full 
name, as, " Mr. Justice Allen " or " Mr. Jus- 
tice John William Allen." 

A clergjTuan styles himself ' ' Eeverend Sam- 
uel James PuUsford," or the contraction 
" Rev." is quite allowable. The professional 
card of a physician usually states his office 
hours and address, and should never be used 
for social purposes; it might look like adver- 
tising. The social card states " Dr. James 
Neill," or better, " James Neill, M. D.," with 
his home address in the right-hand corner. 
Avoid a boastful card. A clergyman may use 
" D. D." after his name, without " Eev." be- 



CARDS 9J 

fore, if lie lias the degree, but no man should 
string a list of degrees, titles, honors, or names 
of societies on a visiting card. 

HOW A MAN USES CARDS 

The young man, in his eagerness towards a 
particular lady, often forgets the courtesy due 
her mother or chaperon and the other ladies of 
the home, and sends up to or leaves only one 
card for the lady in question. This is ill-ad- 
vised besides ill-mannered. Two cards should 
always be sent up or left, one for the mother 
or chaperon, who is at any rate his hostess, 
however little he wishes to see her. The other 
card is for all the ladies in the home, if there 
be others, and he should ask, not especially for 
" her," but for the ladies. If not unwilling, 
" she " will part herself from the others with- 
out fail. Should the ladies be at home, and one 
or more see him, he will in addition leave a 
card for his host in the hall as he goes out. 

After a man has been presented to a lady, he 
may be in doubt whether his acquaintance will 
be agreeable to her, and be too delicate to ask 
whether he may have the pleasure of calling on 
her. In this case he may leave his card at her 
residence, and if he is welcome, her mother or 
chaperon will send him an invitation to visit 
the family or perhaps to some entertainment 



% THE MODERN HOSTESS 



at the home. After this he will understand 
that his visits are desired, and continue to call 
to pay his respects. If the lady's list of ac- 
quaintances be already too extensive, his card 
may be disregarded, and he must wait for 
recognition from the ladies of the household 
when he meets them again. 

A call made by a man on a lady on her " At 
Home " day needs no card either sent up or 
left unless it be his first call of the season, or 
he wishes to take advantage of the opportunity 
to leave a card in acknowledgment of hospi- 
tality he has received. Such entertainment re- 
quires the leaving of only one card— this for 
his host. 

The card left on a first call shows his address 
for the season. 

CAED INTRODUCING A MAN 

A man may be introduced by card or letter, 
the introducer writing " Introducing Mr. So- 
and-So " on the top left-hand corner of his or 
her card. If the introduction is to a lady or 
ladies the gentleman should call in person and 
hand this card with his own to the servant. 

A card of introduction to another man may 
be posted along with his own. The receiver 
of both should recognize the introduction in 
person within three days, or, if for any reason 



CARDS 93 

this be impossible, lie should send a card by 
special messenger with an explanation and the 
offer of such courtesies as his relations with 
the introducer call forth. 

ladies' visiting caeds 

A lady's card should also be of the very best 
material and quality. One of white bristol 
board of medium thickness, polished but not 
glazed, without bevelled or gilt edges or super- 
fluous decoration of any kind, shows good taste 
and knowledge of the best usages. 

The card is engraved, not printed; black, 
script, or Old English lettering is equally suit- 
able. 

Married ladies use a rather larger card than 
do single, of size and style like these: 



Mrs. William Henry Jones 



131 Troop St. 



94 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



Miss Helen Jones 



131 Troop St. 



Cards of the best people show the full Chris- 
tian name as well as the surname, ' ' Mrs. James 
Kimberley Hamilton " showing more style than 
" Mrs. James K. Hamilton," and " Miss Helen 
Elizabeth Brown" than "Miss Helen E. 
Brown." Pet names and diminutives like Liz- 
zie, Moll, Peggy, should be strictly avoided. 

The wife of the eldest member of the oldest 
branch of a family may drop her husband's 
Christian name and style herself ' ' Mrs. Sturte- 
vant," and her eldest daughter may leave out 
her Christian name and be " Miss Sturtevaut," 
but if there are several families of the name in 
the same locality, to avoid confusion it is better 
to follow the general rule. In America a lady's 
card always reads " Mrs." or " Miss," and 
should never be -n-ithout one or the other; she 
does not share her husband's title and should 



CARDS _95 

be very careful not to borrow it for her card. 
The wife of the President is " Mrs. Theodore 
Roosevelt," and of General Miles " Mrs. Nel- 
son A. Miles." If one lady may style herself 
" Mrs. Mayor Upstart," it is just as appropri- 
ate for another to be " Mrs. Janitor Brown," 
or " Mrs. Street-cleaner Scoop." 

The lady who has earned the title of doctor, 
and practises medicine, does not state as much 
on her visiting cards. She uses two different 
sets: one for professional purposes, with " Dr. 
Elizabeth Ransome " or " Elizabeth Ransome, 
M. D.," as the style, whilst her social card, 
" Mrs." or " Miss," as the case may be, has 
no title, and has her home address engraved on 
the right-hand corner. 

A lady whose husband has the same name as 
his father often adds " Junior " or " Jr." to 
her name on her card, so as to make a distinc- 
tion from the card of her mother-in-law. If 
her husband's father dies she leaves out the 
" Jr., " while her mother-in-law places " Sr." 
on her card. If both ladies become widows and 
wish to keep their husbands' Christian names, 
the younger lady uses " Jr." and the elder 
leaves out the " Sr." 

A Widoio has the choice of using her own 
Christian names or those of her late husband. 
The widow of Mr. William Henry Jones may 



96 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

have on her cards either ' ' Mrs. William Henry 
Jones " or " Mrs. Bertha Helen Jones." 

Another fashion in vogue is for a widow or 
divorced woman to use her maiden surname 
with that of her late husband; a lady whose 
maiden name was Miss Harrison and husband's 
name Burton may, on widowhood or divorce, 
call herself " Mrs. Harrison Burton." 

A Divorced Woman naturally wishes to for- 
get her former husband, and never displays his 
Christian name on her card. She may, if she 
wishes, retain his surname with her own Chris- 
tian or surname, but usually prefers to resume 
her full maiden name with the prefix " Mrs." 
instead of " Miss." 

" At Home " Days. — A lady usually has en- 
graved in the left-hand corner of her card a 
day of the week on which she will be "at 
home " — Tuesdays, Thursdays, or Fridays, as 
the case may be. This signifies that she will 
receive callers on the day specified between 
three and six. Some ladies have their after- 
noons once or twice a month, and the card states 
" first Monday," " second and fourth Tues- 
day," which means the first Monday or second 
and fourth Tuesday in every month. Ladies 
who do not wish to receive after a certain date 
add " until Lent," or " until April," as they 
mav desire. 



CARDS 97 

A Young Lady in her first season, if her 
mother has introduced her and is her chaperon, 
does not carry her own card. Her name is 
placed on a large card below that of her 
mother : 

Mrs. William Jones 

Miss Helen Jones 

She is expected in her first season to pay calls 
with her mother, and of course assists at her 
mother's " At Home." She uses the same 
card if she pays a call alone, running a pencil 
mark through her mother's name. 

Should a younger sister be introduced next 
season, or two sisters " come out " at the same 
time, the daughters' names would appear below 
that of the mother, as, " The Misses Hamil- 
ton." After a season or two, if a young lady 
begins to call alone, she may have a separate 
card, but without specifying a day at home, as 
this will be understood to be the same as her 
mother's. Even after some years in society, 
so long as the daughters remain unmarried, it 
is well to keep the joint card in addition to their 
own, for it will always be serviceable whenever 
they do call with their mother, wish to announce 
their day at home, change of address, and in 



98 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

all circumstances in which their mother is also 
included. 

Married Couples have a card, rather larger 
than the wife's, which does not mention " At 
Home," and is not used for answering calls. 
This card is allowed a lady on returning from 
her honeymoon, and is used in sending a pres- 
ent which comes also from her husband, in for- 
warding their combined regrets in answer to 
invitations, and so forth. This joint card is 
often enclosed with a wedding invitation to 
show where the home of the bride and groom 
will be. 

HOW A LADY USES HEB CABD 

Never, on any account, carry a card into the 
drawing-room and present it to the hostess. It 
is the servant's business to take cards when 
necessary, but most occasions simply require 
them to be left on a tray, which is always placed 
conspicuously in the hall. 

There was a time when a lady had to carry 
whole packs of cards and leave one for every 
member of a household, repeating this bounty 
at every visit. There was also a custom of 
folding the edges of cards left when a person 
was not at home. One side folded meant one 
thing and the other another, whilst the servant 
would frequently turn down a corner, perhaps 



CARDS 99 

for luck, so that the card was scarcely fit to be 
seen when all hands had finished with it. 

Simpler methods prevail nowadays, so that 
the average mmd can readily cope with modern 
card etiquette. 

Most calls are made on the appointed " At 
Home " day, and cards are left on the tray in 
the hall on the way to the drawing-room, but 
if calls are restricted to these " At Homes," 
cards are only needed on two occasions. If the 
call is the first of the season, a lady should leave 
one of her own cards with two of her husband's, 
and if the call is made in return for hospitality 
received at the home, the same disposition of 
cards is made, providing the hostess is a mar- 
ried woman. A lady leaves two of her hus- 
band's cards and one of her own because it is 
not expected that a lady should leave her card 
on a male member of a househola. A married 
woman should always keep a stock of her hus- 
band's cards, and be careful to leave them at 
all homes where he has received hospitality. 
She need not perform this office for her sons 
or bachelor brothers, as it is their business to 
make their own calls and acknowledgments. 

A lady does not leave cards for unmarried 
daughters of the hostess if they are receiving 
with their mother, but if she finds a married 
daughter or a friend assisting at the reception, 



100 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

she should, on going away, leave one of her 
cards for this friend or married daughter. 

A young lady who uses her own cards, and 
finds her hostess receiving with a friend, daugh- 
ter, or female relative, leaves two cards if her 
call is the first of the season or in return for 
hospitality. If the young lady is a frequent 
caller, she does not leave cards except on these 
occasions. 

On paying a chance call on mother and daugh- 
ters, or hostess and friend, and finding them to 
be out, a young lady leaves two cards, but she, 
just as a matron, must never leave cards on 
the men of a house. If a call be made on a lady 
visiting at a home, two cards are required, one 
for the hostess as well as the friend, whether 
the hostess knows the caller or not. This rule 
applies to men as well as women. 

It sometimes happens that two maiden ladies 
are equally mistress of an establishment. The 
married lady who calls on them for the first 
time in the season, or after being entertained, 
leaves two of her husband's cards and two of 
her own. An unmarried lady at the head of 
her father's or brother's house receives the same 
courtesy in the matter of cards as a matron does. 

In paying calls in a strange city or neighbor- 
hood both men and women should write their 
temporary address on their cards in the op- 



CARDS lOt 

posite corner to the permanent address. On 
making calls at hotels it is just as well to write 
on the card sent up, or left, the name of the 
friend for whom it is meant. 

CAKDS OF INTRODUCTION FOE LADIES 

Letters of introduction are not in such com- 
mon use as formerly, unless an explanation is 
necessary. The introducing lady writes neatly 
on the upper left-hand corner of her card : 

IntrodxLcing 

Mrs. William Harcourt. 

The card is enclosed in an envelope with that 
of the lady desiring the introduction, and may 
be posted or sent by messenger. The lady who 
receives the two cards must call in person on 
the lady introduced, or send a note by special 
messenger explaining her omission if unable, 
from any cause, to do so. Nothing less is pos- 
sible without offending the introducing party. 

CARDS FOR CHANCE CALLS 

When the caller is not sure of finding her 
friend at home a slightly different card-pro- 
cedure obtains. She had better take the right 
number of cards from her case before ringing 
the bell. If she is single, or, if married, she and 



J02 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

her husband have not been recently entertained 
at the house, she takes two of her own cards, 
one for the hostess and one for the other ladies. 
But if she is a married woman calling on a 
married woman who has recently invited her to 
a dinner or dance, she takes out two of her hus- 
band's cards in addition to two of her own. 
Should the hostess have as her guest a sister, 
mother, friend, or a married daughter, the lady 
caller takes out three of her own cards. 

If the servant, on appearing, says, " Not at 
home," the cards are handed in and the caller 
goes on her way. 

If the ladies send down word that they are 
in the drawing-room, she places the cards on 
the tray in the hall as she passes through. 

It sometimes happens that the servant is not 
quite sure whether her mistress is at home or 
not ; in that event the caller gives her personal 
cards only and waits in the drawing-room until 
the servant finds out. Should the ladies not 
be at home, she adds two of her husband's cards 
to her own and gives them all to the servant 
whilst departing. If the ladies do appear, she 
makes the call and subsequently leaves two of 
her husband's cards on the tray. 

After a personal introduction, chance or 
otherwise, the lady who is the oldest resident 
may, if she chooses, leave a card, which must 



CARDS 103 

be acknowledged in a week, unless the " At 
Home ' ' day is denoted on the card of the first 
caller, when advantage should be taken of that 
day. Unless agreeable to both, no further 
visiting is necessary. 

A WOMAN PAYING A BUSINESS CALL 

A woman having business with a man never 
sends in her card. She need only give her 
name to the servant or clerk along with a short 
verbal message as to the nature of her business, 
or she may write her name and the message on 
a slip of paper. 

If a woman pays a business call on another 
woman who is a stranger to her, she sends up 
a card, sometimes scribbling a line on it as to 
her errand, or else giving a short explanation 
to the servant. 

A woman may also have occasion to call on 
another who, though quite her social equal, is 
a stranger. She should send up her card with 
an explanation of her i-eason for calling, leav- 
ing the card and message if the lady should be 
out. 

A STRANGER LEAVING CARDS 

A man or woman having a friend staying at 
the house often takes this friend along while 
paying calls. In this event the question may 
arise as to the proper thing to be done. If the 



104 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

friend be a guest for two or three weeks or 
longer, it is customary to leave Ms or her card, 
whether the persons called on are at home or 
not. This signifies that the caller wishes the 
friend to be included in any invitations received 
from the person called on. If the host or host- 
ess takes a guest along as a matter of conveni- 
ence, and the guest is only staying a short time, 
no card of such a guest need be left, and it will 
be understood that this guest, if a lady, need 
not be called on in return, nor, if a gentleman, 
invited to any forthcoming entertainment. 
# "When a son has entered society, his mother 
leaves his card along with his father's and 
mother's, signifying that it is expected that he 
will be included in the season's invitations. 
This is strict etiquette. 

A man or woman is often taken to a house 
for the express purpose of being introduced. 
If it is the regular " At Home " afternoon, 
the caller leaves cards as on any first call. 
If a chance call be made, and the hostess is out, 
the stranger leaves his or her cards along with 
those of the accompanying friend. 

CAEDS LEFT INSTEAD OF CALLING 

There are several circumstances which allow 
of cards being left at the door in place of a per- 
sonal call. 



CARDS I65 

People invited to the marriage ceremony 
only, when a church wedding is to occur, or 
those to whom cards announcing the marriage 
are sent, should leave their cards — whether 
men or women — on the bride's mother within 
a week or two after the ceremony. 

A man or woman friend of the groom, but a 
stranger to the bride's mother, being invited 
to the wedding, and unable to attend, does not 
call, but leaves cards on the bride's mother a 
fortnight after the wedding. 

If the members of a club or social institution 
are entertained at the home of a lady, those 
invited should leave their cards on the hostess 
very soon after the occasion, even though they 
have no calling acquaintance with her and the 
reception was but an afternoon affair. 

As a courteous concession to her age or in- 
firmities, an elderly lady, semi-invalid, or 
woman in deep mourning, is privileged to leave 
her cards in acknowledgment of invitations re- 
ceived or calls made on her. 

If a lady has not had the time to make a first 
call or a call after entertainment, but is anxious 
to extend an invitation, she will be forgiven if 
she leaves her card on her friend instead of 
calling, or even posts her card together with the 
invitation. 

Changes of address and re-entrance into so- 



J06 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



ciety are announced by leaving cards ; and tliey 
are also left with enquiries after health or to 
show a kindly feeling in the event of misfor- 
tune. 

When leaving cards without making a call 
the required number are handed to the servant 
who answers the bell, with the remark, " For 
Mr. and Mrs. Ford," " Mrs. and the Misses 
Ford," or for whomsoever they are intended. 

MOURNING CARDS 

In America there are no fixed rules in regard 
to the black border of a mourning visiting card, 
but any ostentation shows the worst possible 
taste. 

A widow usually has a border slightly wider 
than one-third of an inch during the first year 
of widowhood ; this is reduced to a third of an 
inch during the first half of the second year. 
After about a year and a half the border is 
diminished by a sixteenth of an inch every six 
months until the period of mourning is over. 

A widower's card being a man's, and smaller, 
has not such a wide border, which is gradually 
reduced in the same way as the widow's. 

This reduction of the black border is not in 
good taste after the death of a parent, child, 
sister, or brother. For these relatives the card 
should, during the whole period of mourning, 



CARDS >07 

have a black edge between one-eighth and a 
sixteenth of an inch in width. 

Mourning for a grandparent, uncle, or aunt 
is denoted by a border one-sixteenth of an inch 
wide during the whole period. When a lady- 
past middle-age is left a widow she often adopts 
permanent mourning. After the first year she 
substitutes a border of one-eighth of an inch 
for the wide one and keeps this card for the rest 
of her days. 

CARDS OF CONDOLENCE AND ENQUIRY 

A card of enquiry after the health of a sick 
friend must always be left in person, after ask- 
ing the latest news of the patient. It is neither 
courteous nor kind to post these cards. Under 
the engraved name of the caller the words " to 
enquire " are written in pencil, so as to show 
the card to be especially designed for the sick 
person and as proof of the genuine interest of 
the caller. 

A card need only be left at long intervals 
when kindly solicitude prompts a daily call of 
' enquiry. 

Cards of condolence should be left as soon as 
a death is announced and must be handed in 
person by the friends and acquaintances of the 
bereaved family. A bouquet of flowers may 
accompany the card, but this should be a 



(08 



THE MODERN HOSTESS 



sign of personal affection and not a mere pa- 
rade. 

A husband and wife leave two of each ot 
their own, or else two of their joint cards, one 
for the parents and one for the other members 
of the family. In case of the death of husband 
or wife, the same number of cards should be 
left if there are grown-up sons and daughters. 
If the parent of a married woman dies, cards 
are left at her door and at that of the surviving 
parent. When the sole remaining parent of a 
family dies, cards are left on the eldest son and 
daughter. 

There is a custom, not always observed, of 
leaving cards both shortly after the death and 
a few days after the funeral, but if this be done 
the cards are left with less ceremony, and a 
lady may leave them for all her family or a 
sister for her brother. This second leaving of 
cards is not invariable, and it seems rather to 
overdo expressions of sympathy and likely to 
prolong the anguish of the bereaved family. 

CARDS IN ANSWER TO ENQUIRY OR CONDOLENCE 

These cards may take two forms. A person, 
on recovery from a serious illness, usually 
sends through the post his or her own cards to 
all who have called, with " Alany thanks for 
your kind enquiries " written in pencil on the 



CARDS 109 

card. To callers who have shown especial 
anxiety and have sent flowers, fruit, books, etc., 
in addition to making enquiries, short, cordial 
notes of thanks are sent. A distinguished lady 
of New York, on recovering from a recent ill- 
ness, sent out a card engraved in elegant script : 

" Mrs. presents her compliments and 

thanks for recent kind enquiries." This seems 
a very sensible plan, worthy of wider adoption. 
Parents acknowledging enquiries for a young 
child who has recovered from illness use their 
joint card. 

In acknowledgment of cards of condolence 
after a bereavement, written letters of thanks 
are expected by intimate friends. In addition, 
either a mourning card or a special black-edged 
card of thanks should be posted to all persons 
who have sent cards of condolence. The two 
forms are in equal favor. If the ordinary 
mourning card is posted, " With thanks for 
your kind sympathy " is written on it, and it 
is enclosed in a black-bordered envelope. 

When the large, especially printed cards are 
employed as a means of returning thanks, a 
large white card with a black border is chosen 
and the inscription printed thereon, not en- 
graved. These cards are also posted in black- 
edged envelopes and are of the following 
styles : 



no THE MODERN HOSTESS 

Mrs. James Wilson and Family 

return thanks for your Jiind sympathy. 

60 North Street. 

Mrs. James Wilson 
returns thanks to 

and family 

for their kind sympathy and condolence. 

60 North Street. 

Or the widow and children might use this form : 

The family of the late 

James Wilson 

return their sincere thanks for your kind 
sympathy. 

60 North Street. 

CARDS ANNOUNCING BIBTH, AND REPLIES 

On the birth of a child, special cards are sent 
to friends and acquaintances in honor of the 
event. To a large, square card bearing the 



CARDS HI 

mother's name is attached a small one, of one- 
fourth the size, with the full name of the child 
and date of its birth. In response to these 
cards, calls of enquiry after the health of 
mother and child are made and cards left on 
the mother and by some people on both, al- 
though it seems far-fetched to leave cards on 
a child a week or more old. 

Persons living at a distance, or unable to call, 
should post their own cards to the mother with 
" Hearty congratulations " written above the 
name of the sender. 

p. p. C. CARDS 

" Pour prendre conge " — to take leave — is 
contracted to P. P. C, and the letters are writ- 
ten on one of the lower corners of the cards of 
persons leaving their city of residence or neigh- 
borhood before the end of the season, or going 
on a voyage. These cards are left on all people 
with whom there have been visiting relations, 
and are generally left in person, or, if time 
does not allow, it is quite correct to post them 
the day before going away. These cards ac- 
quaint friends of a departure and also serve as 
acknowledgment of hospitalities, and cancel the 
indebtedness of calls which lack of time has 
prevented being paid. 

At the season's close it is not necessary to 



112 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

send P. P. C. cards, as all obligations are sup- 
posed to have been already met, though some 
people do use them to let their friends know 
that they have finally left the city or neighbor- 
hood. 

It is a useful idea, -when starting on a voyage, 
to write on the cards the address of a banker 
or other headquarters in the foreign country 
to which one is going. 

P. P. C. cards need no return. 

CAEDS WHEN TRAVELLING 

When a lady \'isits a neighborhood where she 
has several friends and intends to stay some 
time, she posts to her friends— both men and 
women — cards showing her temporary address. 

A man should call on his friends himself, and 
if they are out, leave his card. 

It is better to use one's permanent card for 
this purpose, crossing out the home address and 
writing the temporary one in pencil over it. 

A person in society will acquaint friends of 
a change of residence in the same way. 



CALLS 

The proper making of calls is to the novice a 
matter of much form and conventionality. To 
the woman of modest social aspirations, she 
whose life is well filled with other duties, the 
etiquette of calling may seem a bit tiresome. 
But if she wishes to keep in touch with friends 
and acquaintances, she must do her share of the 
visiting and should do it in the conventional 
way. She must get rid of the idea that she 
will be a welcome guest at any hour of the 
day and upon any day of the week. As a mat- 
ter of great convenience to themselves most 
women of any social pretensions whatever ap- 
point a day of the week to be " at home " to 
their friends. This information is printed upon 
their visiting cards, and any one disregarding 
it, when intending to make a purely social call, 
is guilty of a rudeness. Calls upon business or 
for some matter of special importance may be, of 
course, arranged for other dates, but these are 
not " calls " in the social sense. A moment's 
thought will convince one of the need of thus 
protecting one's self from the annoyance of re- 
ceiving ill-timed calls. A friend who would be 
JJ3 



114 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

very welcome wlieu one is prepared to receive 
her may be seriously in the way upon another 
occasion. In small places the reprehensible 
habit of running in and out of one another's 
houses at all hours of the day still prevails. 
No one really likes such invasion of their 
privacy, however much they may j^retend to, 
or however " friendly " they may be with the 
invader; and such calls would not be tolerated 
in the polite society of the more sophisticated 
towns. It is much better, even for the woman 
who makes and receives but few calls, to set 
aside a day to see her friends, and to be ready 
upon that day, in her " best bib and tucker," 
to do the honors of her home. In many neigh- 
borhoods of the larger cities, especially in dis- 
tricts bordering upon the suburbs, the women 
seem to retain the old-fashioned idea that a 
newcomer must be received with open arms by 
the entire block. To a woman coming from a 
more conservative place, it is at first surprising 
and afterwards annoying to find that she is 
expected to exchange calls with twenty women 
or so with whom she has not the slightest ac- 
quaintance nor the slightest desire to become 
acquainted. But if she is to dwell among these 
kindly, sociable souls, she must know them or 
incur their ill-feeling; for the woman who 
makes a call upon the newcomer feels that she 



CALLS n5 

is extending to her the hand of hospitality, and 
to have that hand ignored is a serious offence 
to her pride. Common sense seems to play no 
part in this determination of many women to 
make the acquaintance of strangers ; and it cer- 
tainly never occurs to them that the stranger 
may have no desire to know them. It is a fool- 
ish practice and is, of course, not indulged in by 
women of nice feeling or those accustomed to 
the usages of good society. 

Strictly formal calling in the society of large 
cities is hedged in by many little conventional 
details as to the days, hours, cards, degree of 
acquaintance, etc. The " At Home " day is 
generally observed ; the usual hours for making 
calls are from three or three-thirty to five in 
the afternoon. This refers more especially to 
calls made by women. Men, owing to the re- 
striction of business hours, have rather more 
latitude, and do not as a rule call on "At 
Home " days. A man may pay his duty calls 
in the evening or on Sunday. The custom of 
receiving one's friends upon Sunday afternoon 
and evening prevails very generally. A man 
should not call later in the evening than nine 
o'clock. He has not the privilege of taking 
another man to call upon his women friends 
without first receiving their permission to do so. 
A gentleman who wishes to become acquainted 



Iti THE MODERN HOSTESS 

with ladies can do so properly only through the 
introduction of a mutual friend. He makes his 
first call in the company of this friend. 

With the beginning of the social season, ' ' At 
Home " cards are sent out and " calling " be- 
comes a part of the business of the day. It is 
well to call promptly upon friends who have 
extended their hospitality to you during the 
summer. 

It is customary for the participants in a 
wedding, that is, the bridesmaids, the best man, 
ushers, etc., to call shortly after the ceremony 
upon the mother of the bride. Guests at a 
home wedding do likewise, and also call upon 
the bride when she returns from her honey- 
moon. Her ' ' At Home ' ' cards usually inform 
friends as to the time set apart for receiving. 
Pallbearers at a funeral should call upon the 
family of the deceased within a few weeks after 
the sad ceremony. 

In regard to new acquaintances, it is an act 
of courtesy for a hostess to call upon such be- 
fore inviting them to an entertainment, — this 
does not refer to men acquaintances. 

If one is asked by an intimate friend to ex- 
tend the courtesy of an invitation to a person 
with whom she has no acquaintance, the 
prospective hostess should call first upon this 
friend of her friend or leave her card. 



C ALLS "7 

In regard to the frequency of calling upon 
one's friends, it may be said that calls of the 
severely conventional kind may occur but once 
in a year. This is where an acquaintance has 
never advanced beyond the point of pure for- 
mality. At the beginning of the season calling 
is rather more prompt. First calls should be 
returned within two weeks. It is best not to 
allow too long an interval to elapse when one 
" owes " a call; and it is necessary that a call 
made in person should be so returned— that is, 
it should not be acknowledged by merely send- 
ing one's card. 

The tactful and well-bred society woman who 
finds herself afflicted by an undesirable woman 
caller does not display her annoyance by word 
or manner, but makes haste to return the first 
call, or to leave her card; then it is an easy 
matter to drop the acquaintance gradually by 
sending cards now and then until the affair 
dies a natural death. 

The man who makes a living by writing 
funny paragraphs for the newspapers and 
comic periodicals finds much to say in a humor- 
ous way on the subject of making formal calls. 
He delights to picture the ill-concealed joy of 
the caller who finds that her " friends " are 
" out." There are other people who would 
have the world believe that formal calls are a 



JJ8 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

farce and a waste of time altogether. There is 
this to be said in defence of the custom : If one 
goes in for society at all, he must regard its 
conventionalities; and it may safely be as- 
sumed that the man or woman who keeps well 
in touch with a large circle of friends and ac- 
quaintances possesses advantages, from a 
worldly point of view, that he or she of limited 
acquaintance cannot hope to have. This is a 
statement which many will dispute; but there 
are many more who will agree that a wide gen- 
eral acquaintance, pleasantly maintained, is a 
valuable asset in the business of living. It is 
not true, for one thing, that a man's friends 
and acquaintances desert him in misfortune. 
The percentage of people who are capable of 
this meanness is not so large as is generally 
believed; and while one does not care to con- 
sider his friends as possible helpers in diffi- 
culties, it is still a fine thing to realize that one 
possesses the good will and kindly interest of 
so many of his fellow creatures. But this is a 
digression. 

To return to the etiquette of Calling: If a 
woman is on her way to call upon a friend, and 
should chance to meet the latter faring forth 
upon business or pleasure of her own, she 
should not take advantage of the opportunity 
to leave cards at her door, thus hoping to 



CALLS IJ9 

escape the task of a second call; she should 
postpone her visit until another day. 

If, through the interest of a friend, a woman 
is invited to an entertainment at a house where 
she is a stranger, she should pay a call upon 
the hostess within a week or so after the occa- 
sion. This call the hostess may return if 
she wishes to continue the acquaintance, but 
it is not compulsory, and the one who en- 
joyed her hospitality has no reason to feel 
offended. 

A woman never calls upon a man socially. 
The only occasion on which a woman calls upon 
a man is upon a matter of business ; and on such 
occasions she should make it a point to find out 
the business hours of the place and go at such 
time. She is usually met by a clerk, or in case 
of a call upon the minister at the rectory, or a 
doctor in his office, by the maid, to whom she 
gives her name, requesting that it be taken to Mr. 
So-and-So. In a man's office, a woman should 
not look for just the same courteous treatment 
that he would bestow upon her in a drawing- 
room. Some men are always courteous, not 
only in their hours of ease, but during business 
hours ; the average man, however, is reprehen- 
sibly lacking in his company manners when his 
mind is full of business, and while he is not 
really rude, a woman who is sensitive and in- 



120 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



experienced may be annoyed, or even somewhat 
shocked, to find herself not altogether the ob- 
ject .of polite attention that she is accustomed to 
being in society. But a man who is not wholly 
a boor will remember that his caller is a 
woman, and will not offend by too far forget- 
ting the conventionalities. He will not receive 
her in his shirt-sleeves, if by chance he is in- 
dulging in this luxury of undress when she ar- 
rives ; neither will he keep his hat on ; he will 
rise when she enters his ofiBce, and stand until 
•she is seated. When she leaves he will open 
the door for her ; and if an intimate acquaint- 
ance, will escort her to the corridor of the build- 
ing, or to the elevator, if there is one. A 
woman who calls upon a man during his busi- 
ness hours should, above all things, endeavor 
to be brief and direct in her communication. 
Nothing is more annoying to a man than to 
have a business caller constantly digress from 
the matter in hand. 

The occasions when it becomes necessary for 
a woman to call upon a man at his house, where 
she has no acquaintance, are not frequent, but 
should such an emergency arise, the woman 
must go in the company of a relative or 
chapei-on. A call of this kind should be made as 
brief as possible. A woman should not, imder 
any, circumstances, call unchaperoned at a 



CALLS \ii 

bachelor apartment. She may have enjoyed 
the hospitality of a bachelor friend in some 
pleasant way, but the acceptance of his invita- 
tions entails no after acknowledgment upon 
her part in the way of calling. In the large 
cities, artists, musicians, and literary men fre- 
quently entertain their friends in their apart- 
ments, or studios. These affairs are usually 
very delightful, but women do not attend them 
alone. As has been said before, most women 
in society have long since recognized the con- 
venience and general desirability of having an 
" At Home " day. This, in the larger towns 
or cities, is usually one day in each week 
throughout the social season, which begins 
about the first of November. Some " At 
Homes ' ' terminate with the beginning of Lent, 
others continue later in the spring. If one has 
no desire to entertain so frequently, she may 
be at home once in two weeks, or may have a 
brief series of Days for which she sends out 
special cards. For the ordinary once a week ' ' At 
Home " the day is designated on the visiting 
card. Upon the day appointed a woman should 
not forget that she should be on hand to receive 
her guests. This may seem, to the uninitiated, 
rather superfluous advice, but it is not, really. 
It would surprise them to know how frequently 
women offend in this matter — not women of good 



J22 



THE MODERN HOSTESS 



breeding and experience, but those whose foot- 
hold on the social ladder is more or less in- 
secure, and who think it rather a good joke, 
upon the whole, to play truant on their " At 
Home " day, if there is something more inter- 
esting in view in the way of pleasure, 

A woman who appoints a day for receiving 
callers is quite justified in declining to see any 
one who calls socially upon another day than 
that set aside. The latter-day ' * Not at home, ' ' 
which many people look upon as a falsehood 
pure and simple, is nothing more than one of 
the little conventionalities of society, and is 
very generally understood to mean that the per- 
son called upon is not receiving. It is not in- 
tended to convey the impression that she is lit- 
erally absent from her house. 

On " At Home " days the servant stands in 
the hall, ready to open the door promptly to 
callers. Wliere a butler is emploj-ed his duties 
are rather more strenuous than those of a maid, 
since he must announce the names of vis- 
itors at the drawing-room door, attend a lady 
to her carriage with an umbrella in case it 
rains, and assist a gentleman with his outer 
coat, etc. The servant may receive the cards 
of callers upon a small tray, or a larger tray 
may stand conveniently at hand, so that each 
caller may deposit his or her card. The 



CALLS 123 

hostess on an " At Home " day, unless it is a 
very large reception, need not stand at the 
drawing-room door to receive her guests, but 
should simply rise and greet each newcomer, 
and give her as much personal attention as she 
can without neglecting others. Refreshments 
are served as directed in the chapter on "After- 
noon Teas." When a guest leaves, the hostess 
does not accompany her to the door. She rises 
as they exchange the courtesies of adieu and 
stands until the guest turns toward the door. 
If no other guests are pi-esent, however, and 
the hostess so desires, she may accompany a 
woman caller to the street door. Formal calls 
should not last less than fifteen minutes nor 
more than half an hour. A caller should not 
leave without a word of farewell to her hostess, 
even though she may find it awkward to gain 
her attention. A tactful hostess has an eye to 
arrivals, that she may be ready with her greet- 
ing, and she will be quick also to discern the 
desire of a caller to wish her good-afternoon. 
If she is engaged in conversation with others 
she will not keep the departing guest waiting 
uncomfortably, but will gracefully manage to 
give her an opportunity to approach her. The 
words of farewell should be brief ; there should 
be no attempt at conversation after the hostess 
has risen for the little ceremony of adieux. 



J24 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

This awkward habit of so many people is tire- 
some in the extreme to the hostess, and is usu- 
ally a source of discomfort to the caller herself, 
who is conscious that she is unable to leave a 
room gracefully. There is an old saying to the 
effect that the best of a visit takes place at the 
door; but this is far from the truth where the 
modern formal call is concerned. There is no 
opportunity in polite society to-day for the 
female bore, or boor, to keep her tired but pa- 
tient hostess standing in a draughty hall for 
half an hour after the first word of farewell 
h^as been spoken. When a call has extended to 
its proper duration, the watchword of the twen- 
tieth-century caller is, or should be, " Go." 

A gentleman, when making a call, should rise 
from his chair when a woman caller enters and 
remain standing until she is seated. He also 
stands when she rises to leave, and whenever 
his hostess leaves her seat. A gentleman should 
never, in making calls, wear his overcoat into 
the drawing-room; in regard to the propriety 
of carrying his hat and cane into the room there 
is still much argument; as a rule, he leaves 
these articles in the hall with his coat. A lady 
wears her hat or bonnet and wrap while making 
a call, but if she has worn a stormcoat or similar 
over-garment, it should be left in the hall. 



BALLS 

Possibly no other form of hospitality gives 
such unquestioned happiness and enjoyment 
to the old and young alike as a successful 
dance. 

Whether we dignify it by the formal, high- 
sounding title of " Ball," or speak of it more 
intimately as just " a plain, ordinary dance," 
there is a joyousness in the thought, and a 
music in the very words themselves, that in- 
stantly recall the voluptuous waltz or the 
cheery two-step, and, mayhap, the memory of 
some never-to-be-forgotten occasion. 

Dinners, receptions— nay, even the wedding 
of our best friend— may be enjoyed and in the 
course of time forgotten, but the memory of 
that first dance, our first ball, can never grow 
dim. Whether it be as debutante or hostess, 
the event is a memorable one. Yet that which 
otherwise would have been counted among the 
most pleasant memories of our lives, is some- 
times marred by the conduct of some person 
who, under no circumstances, should have had 
the entree to the room. 
125 



J26 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

This brings us to the all-important question 
of invitations, or 

WHOM TO INVITE 

To the successful entertainer this is always 
the most troublesome phase of the whole under- 
taking, for it is given to but few of us to go 
through life free from obligations save to those 
in our own social set. It almost invariably 
happens, therefore, that the more or less 
publicity attending a private ball compels us to 
invite people from business or other reasons, 
who do not enjoy any social intimacy with us, 
and for whose acceptability to other guests it 
would be difficult for us to vouch. Yet one 
such person may ruin the work of the most 
charming hostess. The guest has the right to 
demand that he or she will not be faced with 
an unpleasant situation, and the diplomatic 
hostess will exercise the most skilful care in the 
supervision of her invitation list, to the end 
that no untoward incident shall mar any of her 
guests' enjoyment. The first great recognized 
leader of New. York's fashionable society fre- 
quently declared that he had narrowed the num- 
ber of the elect to four hundred by eliminating 
all those who were " plainly ill at ease in a 
ballroom." Proper as this arbitrary ruling 
may or may not have been to the fashionables 



BALLS 127 

of New York, it is a manifestly absurd proposi- 
tion so far as regards the great majority of the 
people of these United States. And yet the 
point of view, shorn of the extreme to which 
Mr. Ward McAllister took it, is eminently true. 
Having, therefore, carefully chosen the people 
we are desirous of entertaining, the matter of 
invitations becomes paramount. 

THE INVITATION 

to a formal ball should be issued, at the very 
least, ten days before the event is to take place ; 
preferably from ten to twenty-four days. Too 
frequently the present prevailing laxity in the 
observance of social conventions leads to care- 
lessness in the minor details of the relationship 
between hostess and guest, and vice versa, but 
experience will prove that those who are scru- 
pulously exact in these matters are more than 
repaid by the smoothness of their social life and 
the value which others place on their acquaint- 
anceship. 

The question of adding the letters E. S. V. P. 
to an invitation to a private ball is a vexed one. 
In the majority of instances they are omitted, 
and yet it is perfectly permissible to use them, 
and, in some instances, absolutely necessary. 



m THE MODERN HOSTESS 

FORMS OF INVITATION 

vary very little, but any reputable stationer 
will be found to carry samples of those in 
vogue. The following forms, however, will be 
found to cover any average occasion : 

(a) 

Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Kay 

request the pleasure of your company 

on Tuesday evening, December the first, 

at half -past nine o'clock. 

Dancing. 58 Fair street. 

R. S. V. p. 

ih) 

Mrs. August Schofield, 

Miss Schofield, 

At Home 

Thursday, February the sixth, 

at ten o'clock. 

Dancing. 240 Park Avenue. 

Cotillon after twelve o'clock. 



BALLS 129 

It must not be forgotten, however, that if 
for any reason at all engraved invitations are 
not obtainable, or perhaps not desired, written 
invitations, beside serving exactly the same 
purpose, are equally correct. If written, the 
very best white or gray note paper should be 
used, and the text worded exactly like those 
that are engraved. Also it should be sealed 
under cover of one envelope and forwarded 
whenever possible by messenger, using the 
postal service for those only who are not con- 
veniently within reach. Engraved invitations 
receive a somewhat different treatment. If 
sent by messenger, but a single envelope is em- 
ployed, while, if mailed, two are employed, the 
first or inner cover, unsealed, bearing the name 
only of the person for whom it is meant, while 
on the outer envelope is inscribed the full name 
and address. 

It will be noticed that in the example forms 
already given, the single word " Dancing " 
suffices to inform the recipient of the nature of 
the evening's entertainment. More would be 
superfluous and distinctly bad form. 

When it is desired to have the guests present 
some little time before the hour set for danc- 
ing, as in the instance of a special musical pro- 
gramme, the difference in the hour set for the 
invitation, and the separate mention of the 



J30 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

hour when danciug is to begin, should be suffi- 
cient notice to the recipient. 

THE COTILLON 

Occasionally the cotillon is designed to oc- 
cupy the entire evening, in which case the in- 
vitation might read: 

(c) 

Mr. and Mrs. Percival Lee 

request the pleasure of 



company on Tuesday evening, March first, 
at ten o'clock. 

Cotillon Forty-four Brook Avenue. 

THE DINNER DANCE 

has become increasingly popular, and very nat- 
urally so, seeing that the intimacy of the din- 
ing-room forms the happiest prelude to the 
gayety of the dance, and the stiffness that too 
often accompanies the more formal ball is en- 
tirely absent. Then, again, the guests are 
fewer in number and invariably congenial. For 
an affair of this character two different sets 
of invitations are required, the first being the 



BALLS m 

ordinary engraved dinner cards of the hostess 
with the word " Dancing " and the liour writ- 
ten in the lower left-hand corner, and the sec- 
ond, designed for those who are invited for the 
dancing only, consisting of the regoilar " At 
Home " cards, with " Dancing " and the hour 
written in the lower left-hand corner. Better 
still, particularly if the affair is small and in- 
formal, the hostess could substitute for the 
card above described the regular visiting card 
of herself and husband or daughter with : 

id) 

Dancing at ■ 

January the ninth, 

R. S. V. P. 

written in the lower left-hand corner. This 
method has the advantage of conveying a 
degree of cordiality to the recipient that is 
impossible with the stiff and stilted invitation 
couched in the third person, or even the regula- 
tion " At Home " card, hence its growing em- 
ployment. 

THE DEBUTANTE 

is frequently introduced into society through a 
dance or ball, invitations for which are similar 



132 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

to those already described in examples (a) and 
(b). If the latter of these two is used, the 
calling card of the debutante should be enclosed 
with each invitation. A more direct announce- 
ment is that conveyed in the following form : 

(e) 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Mount 

request the pleasure 
of introducing their daughter 



to 



on Thursday evening, March the third, 
at half after nine o'clock. 

200 Washington Avenue. 
ASSEMBLY DANCES, SUBSCRIPTION BALLS, ETC. 

Invitations to these popular forms of enter- 
tainment frequently partake of a degree of 
originality denied to the strictly ]irivate dance. 
The conventional form, however, is here given : 



BALLS t33 

(/) 
The pleasure of 

company is requested at the 

First Assembly 

in Library Hall 

on Tuesday evening, November fourth, 

from nine until one o'clock. 

R. S. V. P. 

Patronesses: 
Mrs. De Lancey Barrett, Mrs. Thos. Wilson, 
Mrs. Tremont, Mrs. Barry. 

Usually the number of invitations allowed to 
each subscriber is clearly understood and 
loyally adhered to ; but every little while care- 
lessness creeps in and the agreement is trans- 
gressed. Various plans have been tried to pre- 
vent this injustice, but the voucher system has 
been found to work the best. The " voucher " 
is a small card inscribed as follows : 



J34 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

(9) 
First Assembly 

Gentleman's Voucher. 

Admit 

on Tuesday evening, November the fourth. 

Compliments of 

The same form does for either sex, substi- 
tuting " Lady's " for " Gentleman's " before 
the word " voucher." In sending out this in- 
vitation the subscriber should invariably en- 
close his own visiting card. Another form, the 
occasion for which is sufficiently indicated by 
its wording, is: 

(h) 

The pleasure of 

company is requested at 

The Volunteer Firemen's Ball, 

at the Country Club, 

on Wednesday evening, April the second, 

at ten-thirty o'clock. 
R. s. r. p. to 

Tht Committee, 

Relianct Hook and Ladder, 

Main Street. 



BALLS 135 

BAL POUDRE, FANCY DRESS, COSTUME BALLS, ETC. 

Invitations to these fascinating entertain- 
ments are couched similarly to those used for 
the ordinary ball, except that the distinguish- 
ing feature of the affair is clearly stated, as : 

(i) 

Mr. and Mrs. Walter Cromwell 

request the pleasure of 

company on Tuesday evening, November first, 
at ten o'clock. 
Bal Poudre. 

or 

Costumt: Rewbitionary era 

(as the case may be). 

300 Fortythe Street. 

CHABITY AND OTHER BALLS 

0) 

The pleasure of your company is requested 

at the 

Annual Charity Ball 

To be given in the Opera House on 

Wednesday evening, 

February the third, at nine o'clock. 

Cards of admission, five dollars, 



J36 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

Very large sheets of thick paper, or substan- 
tial cards, are used for the engraved invitations. 
Frequently the names of the ladies and gentle- 
men serving on the Eeception and Floor Com- 
mittees, respectively, are printed underneath 
the invitation. 

EXTRA GUESTS 

Sometimes it happens that invited guests are 
also entertaining guests of their own, and 
as this may easily become a source of much 
worry to the hostess in the case of a private 
ball, it will be well to discuss the problem be- 
fore proceeding to another subject. 

It is not necessary to invite Miss Smith, per- 
sonally known or unknown to the hostess, 
simply because she is a guest of Miss Norman, 
to whom an invitation is sent as a matter of 
course. But Miss Norman may ask personally, 
or write, for an invitation for her friend, in 
which case the hostess may decline or grant the 
request. Failure to obtain the necessary in- 
vitation for one's guests should be accepted 
philosophically, as such incidents, besides being 
of every-day occurrence, are positively un- 
avoidable. In case of a declination the follow- 
ing form may be used, not the least of its ad- 
vantages being that it is invariably true, a 
quality which does not always distinguish our 
social amenities and conventions. 



BALLS J37 

{k) 

Edgeivater, May 28th, 19—. 
My Dear Miss Norman : 

So general has been the acceptance of our 
invitations that I begin to doubt the capacity 
of my rooms. It would be a great pleasure to 
include Miss Smith, but my limitations in the 
matter positively prevent me. You ivill, I am 
sure, realize my difficulty and forgive my in- 
ability to respond more hospitably to your 
request. 

Very sincerely yours, 

Maby Waller. 

My Dear Miss Norman : 

Surely. By all means bring your friend 
Miss Smith. My cards are exhausted, but 
Edith ivill call at once and give the invitation 
personally. 

Most cordially yours, 

Mary Waller. 

So much for the sending of invitations. 
Whether the invitation bear the letters B. S. 
V. P. or not the recipient is expected, by all the 
laws of good breeding, to respond promptly. 
When the invitation is formally written in the 



J38 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

third person, the reply shouUl be sent within 
forty-eight hours. The two forms following- 
cover this case: 

Mr. and Mrs. Vernon Black 

accept with pleasure 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Smithson's 

kind invitation for Tuesday evening, 

February the third. 

Or 

Mr. W. Francis White 

regrets that absence from town 

rvill prevent his acceptance of 

Mr. and Mrs. Harmon's 

kind invitation for Monday evening, 

April the fourth. 

In the ease of assembly or subscription 
dances, the reply should be directly to the mem- 
ber or subscriber to whom the favor is owed, 
as: 



BALLS 139 

48 Vicars Lane, 
November 16, 19 — . 
My De.\e Mrs. O'Connell: 

It is with genuine pleasure I am able to ac- 
cept your invitation to the First Subscription 
Ball, on the evening of December the first. 
Trusting that I may see you there, 
Believe me, 
Most sincerely yours, 

Hebbebt Collins. 
Or 

My Deab Mrs. O'Connell: 

With great regret I am compelled to return 
the cards for the First Subscription Dance. 
Business necessity of the m,ost imperative de- 
scription alone prevents me. My disappoint- 
ment is all the more keen because of the in- 
variably brilliant and successful character of 
the dances, ivhich I enjoy very much. 

Believe me, with many thanks. 
Sincerely yours, 

Herbert Collins. 

the essentials 

The thousand and one details that go to 
make up the success of an entertainment of 
any sort require much careful forethought on 
the part of those giving the affair. For in- 



l^ THE MOPE RN, HOSTESS 

stance, the entire night might be spoiled for a 
guest. by. the omission of some trivial matter 
of convenience. In the. matter of a ball, or 
danc^ it, is most important that guests shpuld 
be protected from, the .weathei:, pr the idle curi- 
Qsity of 9- street crowd, by some sort, of covgred 
way from the stre,et curb to the hpuse entrance. 
The pathway also should be coyered by a strip 
of matting or carpet. A seyvaiit or other male 
emplpye,iA livery lif possible, should be present 
to open the carriage doors, give duplicate car- 
riage checks to guests and coachmen, and other- 
wise make himself usefiii. . Arrived at th? en- 
trance dpo.r, the guest is directed by the butler, 
or his subgtitute, to the. cloak- or dressing- 
rooms, .where, ip the case of ladies, maids are 
in attendEipce tP assist iji removing their wraps, 
numbering each parcel, and giving a duplicate 
number-check to the guest. In the gentlemen's 
dressing-room, a man should be present to per- 
form similar services for the male guests. ,, It 
is the part of wisdom to have in the ladies' 
dressing- or. cloak-room some one qualified and 
equipped for the repair of torn dresses. A 
much appreciated courtesy. is the placing of 
cigars, cigarettes, brandy, soda, or other ef- 
f ervescents in the gentlemen 's dressing-room. 
This, of course,, is only done when a regular 
smoking-ropm is impossible. ,, , ,.,.^ ,, 



"bAllS m 

The Floor.— -'Nothing IS more necessal'y f6r 
the dancers' enjoyment than a good floor,' and 
yet such is the exception rather' tlian the Mle. 
A good parquet surface, siiiooth, but notto'd 
slippery, makes a tjeautifui as well as aesthet- 
ically pleasing Tjallroom floor, but any tard 
wood,' if it is evenly and closely laid and 
smoothly polished, 'will serve equally well. 
Fortunately the present trend is 'to poIis"hed 
floors and large rugs, art-squares, etc;, ko that 
the average room is easily converted info a 
dancing hall. If the room is ciarpeted and it is 
not desirable to remove the carpet, the floor is 
sometimes covered with a thickness of heavy 
upholsterer's paper, over which is stretched a 
covering of heavy ' uiibleached cotton cloth, 
drawn very smooth; At thebest this is a sonie- 
what unwholesome practice, as the fine particles 
of linen and dust get into th.e lungs. If at all 
possible,' or if the floor' is even'raode'rately 
decent, it will be far miore conducive to the 
night's enjoyment to take' iip the ca;rpets. 
Paraffine wax, or a sprin'kling of c6rnni6al', Will 
improve even the l)est of floors. 

Music. — ^This important fealture is frequently 
the most difficult probleni to 'solve— so many 
considerations enter into the question. 'Ex- 
pense, more often than not, is the least of the 
items to be considered, but it is well to point 



J42 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



out that the best instrumental musicians are 
usually members of the musical unions and de- 
mand a fused rate of pay. This rate is by no 
means excessi\-e, and at the same time the host- 
ess may leave the details of the music entirely 
to them after she has made known the number 
and description of dances that will be required, 
confident in the knowledge that the musicians 
will be capable. Too often the disputes and 
petty jealousies of local musicians, and the fact 
that they rarely practise ensemble playing, 
make it absolutely impossible for any one to 
use their services. It is cheaper in the end to 
send to the nearest centre and engage profes- 
sional men. The scale of remuneration in New 
York and Chicago is approximately $8.00 per 
man for a large publie ball; $7.00 for a similar 
private affair; $6.00 where the rate of ad- 
mission is $1.00 or over; under this amount, 
$5.00; private all-night dances, $5.00; and for 
afternoon dances, from 2 to 6 p. m., $3.00. The 
leader is paid from $3.00 to $5.00 extra for his 
work in leading, supplying the music, and 
supervising the musical work generally. These 
figures do not include travelling or other ex- 
penses incidental to an " out-of-town " engage- 
ment. 

With regard to the number and composition 
of the orchestra, the size of the room and the 



BALLS t43 

importance of the occasion will be the deter- 
mining elements. For a small house dance, the 
piano is usually sufficient; but care should be 
taken to have it in tune, and place it in such a 
position that the treble, or upper part of the 
piano, is nearest the dancers. A violin could 
be added, and possibly a flute or clarionet. The 
following instruments might be secured in the 
order they are named, according as there is 
need: second violin, 'cello, cornet, bass, viola, 
trombone, horns, tympans, drum, cymbals, 
etc. The great artistic consideration is that 
the music shall not be noisy, and, if pos- 
sible, the players are placed in a gallery or on 
a raised platform. A free use of palms and 
other foliage will kill any stilted platform 
effect. A good point to remember is that mu- 
sicians are merely human beings, with the same 
characteristics as the people on the floor. It 
should be seen, therefore, that the orchestra 
is so placed as not to compel the players to 
cross the floor or interfere with the guests in 
coming and going from the platform. A little 
friendly interest in their comfort will mean 
vastly more accommodating players, something 
the younger element among the dancers will be 
quick to appreciate. A word of warning in 
regard to the piano will be particularly val- 
uable to those who have not had the experience 



t44 THE MODjERN HOSTESS 

to whichjt relates. . The average piano is too 
low in pitch to be used in connection with such 
instruments as the horns^ cornet, clarionet, and 
flute,. It, is always. a,dyisable tp call in the tuner 
aii^ Aotify him. that the .piano is, wanted for 
service. with orchestral instruments, so that if 
he. cannot alter the pitch sufficiently, thei-e will 
be .time to. make other arrangements. Time 
and, .time, .again, good instrumentalists have 
cppie from, a, distance, only to find that they 
cmmX play. with the piano that had been pro- 
vided for them.. : ; 

Dan(]e Prggrammes.— These may be piace^ 
in the dressing-rooms, ^or else tendered by a 
servant, from a neat tray, and stationed just 

Qutside.the. ballroom door.. ,;; ;; , 

_^§ eats,— There should be a p|enfiful supply 
of sofas.or chairs lining the walls of the ball- 
room, as well as in the halls and other rooms. 
A number o^ l.ight folding chairs, which the 
guests can use as they please, .will be found 
very,accepta,ble as well as useful. ,^ , 



BALiiioOM ETIQtfETTE 

4^HvflL— Custom .apparently decrees that 
"nobody must .put in an appearance until 
every one. is there,; V, but, custom, to the con- 
trary, . notwithstanding, there ^ still remains a 



"BALLS T45 

happy medium between arriving inconveiiientiy 
early and iinpleasantly late. ' ' ■ 

' Entering the Ballroom:^— AUei leaving the 
dres^itig-fODms, the h6xt rendezvous is at'th6 
head dr foot of the stairs, as the case inay be; 
where ladies meet their escorts and proceed to- 
gether to the ■ ban'room. ■ Und'er' no' dircutii- 
steinces mtist they eiiter arm-in-arm V'the ' ^6n^- 
tleman always ' permitting the' lady to precede 
him by a step or so. In' the' case of 'several 
ladies entering at the ^ame time, the eldest has 
precedence • married" ladies' 'precede the u'limar- 
ried. duestS' shake 'liaiids ivith bl- bow' to the 
hostess immediately upon arrival, and as 'soon 
as possible after eiiterihg the balli-dom tHe geh- 
tleraen of the party should seek but aM Shake 
hands with the host. The old-fashioned custbttt 
of having the naiii'e of each arrival Called' '6Ut 
at the (Joor Mj a man in livery is Still in' favor, 
but, as a general rule, iiittst hostesses 'Oiiiit th"6 
detail. 

'Dancing Introductions. — The great' rtlajorit;^ 
of dancing introductio'ns are secured' i'fi' the 
early part of the night. According tft'tlie ktri'ct 
code, a gentleman desiring to kn6#' a lady 
would just seek an introduction to her husbaiid, 
father, or chaperon, and through one of these 
he would secure the desired pres'entati6'n'. As 
a rule, an invitation to dance immediately fol- 



14« THE MODERN HOSTESS 

lows tlie introduction. All men guests are ex- 
pected to seek the earliest opportunity of being 
pi'esented to the young ladies of the house, and 
to ask them to dance. It is not permissible for 
a man to ask a woman whom he does not know 
to dance with him; neither is it the correct 
thing for a lady to pass without recognition a 
gentleman with whom she has danced the 
cotillon, although she is permitted the option 
of recognizing or not, as she chooses, a gentle- 
man whom she has met at a ball. Under no 
circumstances should a gentleman be intro- 
duced to a lady without first securing her pei-- 
mission, and similarly it would be the height 
of bad form for a man to attempt to enter into 
a conversation with a lady whom he does not 
know, simply because he happened to have 
waited upon her at supper time. 

If there are no dance programmes, the man 
uses some such conventional formula as, " May 
I have the pleasure of this dance! " or, " May I 

have the next waltz. Miss 1 " Occasionally 

a lament is heard that the old time cut-and- 
dried phrases are being dropped in favor of 
our more modern looseness of expression, and 
that, consequently, young people are losing the 
touch of chivalrous respect that should mark 
the man's attitude to the woman. However 
true this may be, it may reasonably be urged 



BALLS 147 

that an occasional deviation from tlie strict 
pattern of the law is not in itself a very great 
crime, so long as the manner and demeanor of 
the petitioner are correct. When asked to dance 
the lady is expected to rise at once, accepting 
the offer graciously, but not effusively. It will 
be difficult for her to refuse a dance unless her 
card is full, or she pleads fatig-ue, in which case 
she should be careful not to accept another 
offer for that dance. Neither should she dance 
more than two or three times with the same 
man unless she is prepared to risk the notice 
such preference would surely excite. The 
social code demands that men and women alike 
be careful of their dancing engagements and 
impartially strict in their discharge. The man, 
in particular, should be very prompt in claiming 
the dances promised him, for it is an unpardon- 
able rudeness not to be on hand when the music 
strikes up. There are some fortunate persons 
who never seem to be overheated, out of breath, 
dizzy, pant more than is correct, or suffer from 
chronic blushing — and these are indeed to be 
envied. Yet it is possible for any person to 
develop more or less control in any one of these 
directions. 

Masters of the art of dancing seem to have 
solved the problem of conversing naturally and 
easily with a partner, no matter what conditions 



148 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

oif WliMing rhythni foi* tll6 moment obtain. 
'Even to the stolid non-dancing mian th'61-e'ig a 
'fascination' ii the' rhythmic progression of ttvo 
such cTaiicers. I'he easy movements 'of th'e 
Tiian, perfectly composed' and in absolute unison 
with his i^artiier ahd the mitsic,^ — the swaying, 
gracefill; pliafit Woman, yielding perfect 6\)edi- 
efice to every throb 6f the 'melody that is 'ckrry^ 
ing her 'flying feet throiigh space, and com- 
pletely responsive' t'o the m'6VemeiitS of her 
partner,'— this is diancing'.' It do^s'not follow 
thkt, to ' obta'in ' slich"' a result;' the 'partners 
should tave daneed 'together frequently, or 
even that they shonld' be 'temperamentally akin 
to each ot'hCTfit needs only skill in t'hei steps of 
the dance and a niattiral' siisdeptibility to 'Aythm, 
f OY the mysterious telepatby of the' dance— or 
Whiatever elfee ' the ' p'sycHolbgiSt prefers' to call 
it^-^t^ill 'instantly enable two ' sUch partners to 
dance as one. 'Experts maintain that' the secret 
of a graceful, eaS}'' dancing iiiOVement lies' in 
' allowing ' the body to work ' autOmA'ticallj*^— of 
cour'se after being Well trained— arid keeping 
in practice. "Wlien the man is 'iiriable to '' re- 
verse'" 6asily,"or Wheii he happens to have a 
partner whom he cannot even pioneer, lie Will 
find it the part of wisdom to steer clear of the 
vOrtex as much as possible, seeking the 4meter 
parts of the floOr^ "" '■" ■""' "' ' " ''' ' '' " ' 



BALLS 149 

ilfan^e/:.w7>flwc?'w5';— Nothing puts the stamp 
of beijig a stranger to, good society on a man sp 
much as an, awkward manner of holding; his 
pfirtney, The correct position is for hun to^ 
place his arm half-way about her waist, as a 
me^p^pf support and guidance, his hand rest- 
ing, on the middle, of her back, near her waist. , 
Her. right. hand rests lightly in his left— hers 
uppermost. The man's elbow is bent slightly 
in holding .his partner's hand in position, which 
ordiuarily is a .little below the lady's shoulder. 
Her right arm .consequently is almost straight, 
while her left hand. is placed on her partner's 
shoulder,.. or, if ..necessary, on his arm, pust 
below. the shoulder. 

Time was .when the. waltz was regarded with 
very great .suspicion,. In .fact, at the beginning 
of.the.ninete^pth .century, even liberal, gayety- 
loving Paris compromised in the dispute as to 
the. propriety o.f. the newly-imported German 
dance by ;0.ccasionally giving two ladies to each 
gentleman, or two gentlemen to the lady. The 
great, objection, apparently, was the "danger- 
ous "..tete-a-tete the waltz afforded, with the 
" unseemly arm about the .waist " running it a 
close second. Sometimes it happens— although 
very rarely, it should be said, in justice to 
modern .society— that, a man forgets himself 
and unconsciously hold.s.his partner too tightly^ 



J50 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



The instant dropping of the lady's hand from 
the man's shoulder so that it rests between her 
partner and herself will usually bring the man 
to his senses. If this should not succeed, the fer- 
tility of resource of the average American girl 
will easily supply some pretext which will free 
her from her unpleasant partner, and at the 
same time bring home to the man the lady's 
evident displeasure. 

The Interval behveen Dances. — After every 
dance, a young lady should return to her chap- 
eron, unless the affair is private or semi-pri- 
vate, as in the case of subscription dances, 
when she is usually accorded more latitude. It 
is the privilege of the man, after dancing, to 
walk about the rooms a little, securing any re- 
freshments his companion may desire, or sit- 
ting a while in the cooler air, after which he 
may plead another engagement and escort the 
lady back to her chaperon. The necessity for 
pleading another engagement should never 
arise if the lady in the case is at all careful, 
for certainly the suggestion that she be taken 
back to her chaperon would come with far 
better grace from her. 

The uuchaperoned girl is responsible for 
many awkward situations. For instance, when, 
after having danced and promenaded a little 
while, the music begins the next dance, and hoih 



BALLS 151 

she and hei- partner discover they have no en- 
gagement, it is the duty of the lady to find some 
means of releasing the man. This is not al- 
ways possible, and the resiilt is a painful sit- 
uation. Practically the best and only thing to 
do is to laugh the incident away by a frank con- 
fession of the dilemma. She may also be made 
to suffer most keenly because of the lack of a 
chaperon; but whenever a girl finds herself in 
an unpleasant predicament, she has the right 
to call on any older lady present for the con- 
ventional privilege of her chaperonage. The 
lady whose support is asked for may be a total 
stranger, but that does not alter the case; she 
(the dancer) should ask her escort to leave her 
at the lady's side, and after his departure ex- 
plain the circumstances of the situation to her. 

A well-bred girl is i)articularly attentive to 
her mother or chaperon, no matter how full of 
enjoyment her own night may be. She will 
present her friends to her whenever possible, 
and every little while will stop and s):)end a 
moment with her, if only to let her see how 
heartily her charge is enjoying herself. At 
this point it will be well to take up the more 
important varieties of dancing entertainments. 

Subscription Balls.— At these functions the 
patronesses form a semicircular group near 
the entrance to the ballroom, greeting the 



J52 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

guests with gracious bows, or giviiig their "hand 
to distinguished guests, or personal friends. 
The moment supper is annoiiiiced the leader of 
the patronesses takes the arrh of the guest sTie 
would honor, and the rest follow. The guests 
sit together, if the supper is to 1)'e served in 

courses. ' 

■ Cinderella Dances yfere originally meant to 
close promptly at midnight, but the haine," in 
that sense at least, is frequently a liiisnoiher.' 

Assembli/ Dances 'are probably tlie most im- 
portant as weir as the most exclusive fonns of 
subscription balls. In fashionable centres the 
" Assembly " has a social office very like the 
presentation at the English Court, in that it is 
at these affairs very many of our debutantes 
are introduced to society. " " 

The Private Ball has the advantage of being 
free in a manner from what has been described 
as the " red tape of social exhibition," and 
the clever hostess will confine her invitations 
to those whom she believes to be congenial to 
each other. 

House Dances differ little in the matter of 
preparations from those already described. 
Possibly the only difference is in their greater 
simplicity. There should be an' awning and 
carpet from tlie curb to the entrance, and the 
usualmitside men should be employed to facili- 



BAIfLS. i^3 

tate .the comfort of tjie. guests, both comipg and 
gQing.; Dressing-rooms are .provided, /sphere 
the.. maids who, have, a,ccQm,panied. their misr 
tress.es may stay until the dance is over^,,or 
until their mistresses Ifiayp. .The careful host- 
ess, will inyiteifully ,t.e» p,er cent. mo,re.men than 
w.omen,. . One or .t\v.0i friends. usually are asked 
to make the necessary, introdvictipiis between 
the gue^sts, because . the . ]iostess is . unable. , to 
leave .her place while the. guests, are arriving, 
W.hen supper time arrives, the: host leads t.be 
way. ,witk some. lady to, whom he. wishes to dis- 
play, special consideration.. . ; . 

, Dinner. l)ances aje.a.m.o,ng;,the mo,st successr 
ful of .all dancing .entCii^tainmeuts. . .Ordinarily 
the., dining resources of the.hoiise are taxed tO 
the limit, while others ar.e iftyited for the. danc- 
ing. which, is. to.fo.How. .^Dinner, dance. is a.yery 
elastic. . term, : covering a, .yarietj': ;all the; way 
from the very smartest aff.aj.r to the mere.st jm.- 
pjomptu of a haudf uj of .young peop.le. .Some 
of .the mo.st effective and..',' ultra:sm.art " din- 
ner dances have been, arr.anged .by. .the. coToperaj 
tion .of a.. few friends, . K.a.ch ,one gi.ves a dinner 
to twenty or more gues.ts, after which they, are 
driven, to. the. house of^ still another, ho^te^s, 
who entertains with a. cotillon and light snppejr. 
It -wilLbe seen tliat this. idea,. is, capable of..^.. 
variety, of applications. .; . i.:^, 



154 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

Costume Ball. — This form of amusement is 
not by any means as common in the United 
States or England as it is on the continent of 
Europe. Possibly the lack of that quality of 
vivid imagination which distinguishes the con- 
tinental European, and enables him to endow a 
costume of the most ordinary material with 
almost royal splendor, is responsible for it, but 
whatever the cause, the fact remains that the 
average American business man, and particu- 
larly the American paterfamilias, has a strong 
objection to arraying himself in the garments of 
any other period than his own. Yet the costume 
ball has an artistic and fpsthetic value that is 
not to be denied. Another reason undoubtedly 
is that to the English-speaking races costume 
or fancy-dress balls are associated with the 
traditional masked balls of unlimited license. 
Nothing could be further from the truth, and 
undoubtedly the blame is to be laid at the door 
of the impressionistic French novelist, or, 
more correctly speaking, of his dull-witted 
English imitator. Certain it is that they are 
among the most elegant and interesting of so- 
ciety functions, and not by any means as ex- 
pensive as they would seem. The trouble is 
that the average American dreads the tawdry 
and loathes sham; and if the typical American 
girl is dressed as Mary Queen of Scots, it is 



BALLS 155 

safe to say that, instead of the " stagey " cos- 
tume that would tempt her most aristocratic 
J'rench cousin, she is garbed in a dress that 
would probably have altered the world's his- 
tory had poor Queen Mary laid eyes on it. 
This is not by any means necessary, but so long 
as the present opinion prevails, just so long 
will the costume ball be limited to the few. 

A prominent feature is the court minuet, 
danced by selected and coached people, which 
invariably opens the ball. Of course a good 
teacher will be required if the dance is to be 
performed with the requisite dignity and state- 
liness, and the train and fan given their proper 
share of manipulation. From the point of view 
of the hostess, providing she can interest her 
desired guests in the matter, nothing could 
redound more to her credit as an entertainer, 
for it is characteristic of humanity that they 
take far greater interest and enjoyment in any- 
thing which gives them employment or taxes 
their ingenuity. The centre of interest ceases 
to be the hostess or her establishment, but is 
instead the bewildering audience of which they 
themselves are a part. A little originality on 
the part of the projectors of a costume ball 
may lead to, or be the means of, any number 
of amusing frolics. 
Barn Dances are among the social vagaries 



J56 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



of autumu, althougli the fun and frolic to be 
derived from them are independent of either 
time, place, or season. A description of one 
given by one of the most successful hostesses 
in the East will give a general idea of the really 
smart barn dance. The stable, one of the most 
luxurious in the " animal world," was the 
scene of the festivity. The horses were sent 
elsewhere, and the vacant stalls converted into 
a veritable paradise of greenery, and made lux- 
urious with rugs and seats covered with the 
reddest of red cushions, and filled with the most 
deliciously aromatic pine balsam. The box- 
stalls served as the buffet, from which were dis- 
pensed lemonade, punch, and the usual refresh- 
ments incidental to all entertainments. The 
walls were hung with leaves, grain, and garden 
foliage. The border of ripe wheat formed a 
very pointed contrast to the glowing maple 
leaves above. Japanese lanterns, suspended 
from the ceiling, sent soft rays of light through 
the autumn-tinted foliage, while on every hand 
tin sconces, enclosing lighted candles and 
dressed with bunches of bright leaves, lent their 
aid to the general effect. The favors for the 
cotillon consisted of whips, photograph frames 
in the shape of horseshoes or stirrups, tiny 
silver whistles, vegetables, fruits, etc., artisti- 
callv manufactured from silk, flowers in baskets 



BALLS 157 

of burs or birch bark, and numerous other de- 
vices typical of rural life. Supper was an- 
nounced on the coach-horn, and was served at 
the house. The evening's frolic concluded with 
the dancing of the Virginia reel. 

Dancing Classes are a distinctive feature of 
the social life of all great American cities, and, 
in a lesser degree, of every American town. 
As a rule each " set " has its own class, the 
dances being given in some suitable public 
room, hired for the occasion. A committee of 
ladies makes all arrangements for the affair — ■ 
room, supper, music, and cotillon favors — and 
all invitations to membership are subjected to 
their censorship. Each member receives per- 
forated cards of admission, so that they may 
be readily detached and inscribed with the name 
of the guest and the date of each meeting. The 
expense, of course, is determined by the local 
conditions, but in large cities it averages about 
fifteen or sixteen dollars for a season of six 
meetings. The patronesses receive the young 
people, and make it their own special province 
to see that every member gets the maximum of 
enjoyment out of his membership, so far as 
dances, partners, favors, etc., are concerned. 

I'he Cotillon usually takes place after supper 
unless it is to be made the feature of the night, 
in which case the guests are invited exclusively 



158 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



for it, and supper is served at its close. The 
cotillon, or " German," as it was originally, 
and is still frequently called, is said to have 
had its origin at the German Court of Aiy la- 
Chapelle, at a ball given to the allied foreigners 
shortly after the battle of Waterloo. At any 
rate, that was the occasion of its first public 
prominence. Invitations for a cotillon should 
always include enough men to form a reserve 
in the event of failures to respond. The sexes 
should be as nearly as possible equal, the host- 
ess always remembering that the success of a 
cotillon rests on three important points: the 
selection of a leader, the choice of favors, and 
the assignment of dancers. The chairs are 
numbered and backed against the walls in 
pairs; duplicates of the numbers are given to 
the men guests by the leader of the cotillon, or 
else drawn from a basket, neatly decorated, and 
presented to the guest immediately upon his 
arrival. In the case of friends who wish to 
sit together, an exchange is easily effected. 

The Leader of a Cotillon should be a man of 
resource, thoroughly posted in the duties of his 
position, and aware of, and prepared for, its 
difficulties. Once the hostess is assured of his 
tact, experience, and executive ability, it will be 
to her advantage to give him her fullest con- 
fidence. As a matter of fact, few men are will- 



BALLS 159 

ing to assume the responsibility unless forti- 
fied by the most absolute confidence of their 
hostess. Once the post is accepted, however, he 
should call promptly upon her and arrange a 
complete imderstanding as to figures, favors, 
etc. On the evening of the ball he should be 
present in good time, with his entire plan of 
campaign clearly and unalterably defined. Al- 
though he may, if he so elects, dance alone, cus- 
tom demands that he choose his hostess, if she 
is young, or possibly one of her daughters. 
Etiquette does not lay down any rule on the 
subject, however, and he would be entirely 
within his right if he chose some one else. He 
would place her at the head of the ballroom, 
confident in her recognition of his enforced 
neglect of her in the pursuance of his many 
duties. The most successful leader is he who 
contrives to select figures that bring as many 
players as possible on the floor at the same 
time. He must enforce his authority courte- 
ously, gently, but very determinedly. What- 
ever his signals, whether a whistle or a clap of 
his hands, he must insist on the implicit obedi- 
ence of the dancers. He notifies the waiting 
couples by some such hurried warning as, 
" you are up, and you, and you," etc. In guid- 
ing them through the movement he offers his 
hand to the women, and directs the men when 



(60 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

necessary by a touch on tlie arm. In the favor 
figures he (and his partner, should he have one) 
distributes the favors to the dancers while 
seated, or else directs them where they may be 
obtained. 

Cotillon Etiquette. — Partners are frequently 
engaged for the cotillon from the first moment 
the possibility of such an event is known, al- 
though there are invariably some engagements 
left open until the night of the dance. A guest, 
finding he is not acquainted with any of the 
ladies, should ask his hostess or a friend to in- 
troduce him to one. Under no circumstances 
should he dance " stag " when there are ladies 
without partners. Similarly, it is an unpar- 
donable sin for a man to ask a lady for the 
cotillon or for supper, and then forget the en- 
gagement. He is expected to remind her of it 
the moment he sees her enter the room, and 
make sure that he is on hand in good time to 
claim her promise. Should he send his cotillon 
partner a bouquet — a courtesy which is per- 
fectly discretionary — the lady should show her 
appreciation of the gift by carrying the flowers 
or wearing them. He will inevitably send 
flowers on the night of the ball, if through sick- 
ness or other accident he has previously been 
compelled to forego the engagement. Tbe lady 
equally is required to notify the gentleman the 



B ALLS 161 

moment she knows it will not be possible for 
her to keep the engagement. Although spe- 
cially true of the cotillon, the rule holds good 
in every dancing-room that the gentleman will 
devote most of his attention to his partner, 
giving to his neighbors no more attention than 
the circumstances demand. 

Sometimes, owing to a scarcity of men, the 
hostess is unable to find a partner for a woman 
guest, in which case it is incumbent upon the 
guest to relieve her hostess of the problem by 
going home. When the cotillon is left for the 
latter part of the evening, many of the older 
people take their leave before the dance com- 
mences. 

Nothing will bring upon a dancer a quicker 
dislike than to be disobedient to the signals of 
the leader, unless it be the practice of stealing 
dances, or dancing out of turn. 

When a man favors a girl he is expected to 
remain with her in the absence of her partner- 
should his own partner be dancing with another 
—until the man returns, when he will yield to 
him, and gradually bring his conversation to a 
close. The moment his own partner returns 
she is entitled to his entire attention. 

In the case of a girl favoring a man by offer- 
ing him the token of her preference, he must 
rise at once, and, thanking her, attach the favor 



162 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

to his coat. After dancing with her he escorts 
her to her seat again, thanking her before leav- 
ing to rejoin his own partner. 

The " souvenir " is a favor of greater in- 
trinsic value, or handsomer than the rest, and 
exchanged between two partners. The unwrit- 
ten law regarding favors demands that the 
recipients of such favors shall make a return 
during the evening. The man must be espe- 
cially prompt in this respect. 

The Favors are arranged upon a couple of 
tables at the end of the room, much care being 
taken with their artistic arrangement. The 
hostess, assisted by friends, — or the patron- 
esses, as the case may be, — gives out the favors 
to those who, in their turn, present them to the 
persons with whom they hope to dance. Some- 
times this duty is performed by the leader and 
his partner. It is not necessary to provide 
costly favors; the whole spirit of the cotillon 
is to make the favor the simple badge or mark 
of the popularity in which its recipient is held. 
They should be characterized by novelty, orig- 
inality, and daintiness rather than by the dull 
vulgarity of commonplace expensiveness. 

Debutante Dances. — To the fortunate girl in 
whose honor the festivity is held, the night of 
her first ball as a new society recruit is one of 
the red-letter events of her life. Standing with 



BALLS 163 

her parents by the main entrance to the ball- 
room, or surrounded by a bevy of young friends 
as youthful and joyous as herself, the debutante 
is regarded as the central figure of the occasion. 
Arriving guests are introduced, or vice versa, 
by the mother or chaperon of the debutante, 
who, in turn, may introduce her assisting 
friends if she so desires. If her hands are free 
she is expected to offer her right hand in 
acknowledging introductions; failing this, a 
very cordial expression of her gratification is 
due to all who offer her their congratulations. 
She should honor all her dancing engagements, 
but must return after every dance to her 
mother's side, to share the task of receiving 
friends or bidding the departing guest fare- 
well. 

THE HOST 

There are other functions pertaining to the 
head of the family than those of a treasurer. 
Should his name appear on the invitations his 
wife issues, he must of necessity share in the 
actual work of receiving and entertaining 
guests. Notwithstanding the fact that the 
average American business man has little time 
— and more often than not still less inclination 
— for social affairs, his reputation for charming 
hospitality is world-wide. 

Loyalty to his family would seem to be the 



164 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

cardinal principle of liis life, for Ms genial 
nature is always prepared to second the efforts 
of his wife and daughters in their hospitable 
plans and projects. Properly, his place is at 
his wife's side welcoming the guests, although 
society does not stamp him a barbarian if he 
shirks the duty. Should he be a good dancer^ 
he is required to place his ability at the dis- 
posal of his wife, who will see that he dances 
with those of the fair guests who seem least 
attended. If he is not a dancing man, he will 
still find a great field for the exercise of his 
conversational talents by giving himself up to 
the entertainment of the wallflowers and chap- 
erons. Also he must keep an eye on the neg- 
lected damsels and see that they get partners 
occasionally. In one respect he is his wife's 
private policeman, for she looks to him to see 
that there is no lounging in the doorways or 
cloakroom, and also that the liquid hospitality 
of the smoking-room does not enter into too 
close a rivalry with the ballroom. 

If there are sons in the family, they should 
devote themselves to seconding the efforts of 
their parents, making their own personal en- 
jojTuent wait upon that of their guests. At 
supper time the host takes in the most impor- 
tant chaperon present, seating her on his right 
hand. If it is a buffet supper, he takes in first 



^ BALLS J6S 

one, then anothei", looking after the comfort of 
all. He is assisted by his son, or sons, who 
throughout the evening have made it a special 
point to see that young men unprovided with 
partners have been properly introduced. In 
the matter of introductions it is not absolutely 
necessary for the host or his son to first ask 
the young lady whether she will permit the in- 
troduction, for to the host all guests are on the 
same plane. However, it is the wisest plan to 
observe caution and first ascertain the lady's 
wishes before making an introduction. 

THE HOSTESS 

The great problem to the average hostess is 
to reconcile the number of gTiests she feels she 
ought to invite with the space and facilities for 
entertaining at her disposal. At a musicale or 
club reception held in a private residence, 
crowding, while very objectionable, is at least 
not altogether fatal to the success of the gather- 
ing, but at a ball or any other form of enter- 
tainment, where dancing is to be the chief at- 
traction, a crowded room is an abomination, 
and inevitable failure is the sure result. The 
wise hostess usually comes to the conclusion 
that it is better to hurt the feelings of a few 
than to spoil the enjoyment of all, and accord- 
ingly issues her invitations on this basis. 



m THE MODERN HOSTESS 

There is a considerable difference between a 
ball and a dance or party. The former is an 
elaborate evening function, taxing to the limit 
the capacity of those giving the ball, and de- 
voted exclusively to dancing. On the other 
hand, an evening party is either a dance, or a 
dinner and dance; but in either event it is far 
less formal than a ball, and besides, being of 
smaller proportions, is usually over by mid- 
night. 

A growing custom in England as well as our 
own country is to engage some large public 
salon, transforming it for the occasion into 
the semblance of a private ballroom. In this 
manner it is possible to entertain to almost an 
unlimited extent. It is a practice strongly 
condemned throughout continental Europe, but 
no one familiar with the success which society 
leaders, here and in England, have achieved in 
their use of the public rooms of Sherry's, Del- 
monico's, the AValdorf-Astoria, or the English 
Hotel Cecil, can doubt their very real advan- 
tages over even the most commodious city home. 
As a matter of fact, the great bulk of entertain- 
ing must of necessity take place within the four 
walls of the average parlor, in which case it 
would be well for the hostess to remember that 
two small entertainments, where each guest has 
an oiJpoitunity of eujoymeut, arc moio to be de- 



BALLS J67 

sired than one big one that is crowded. When 
the entertainment is given in one's own home, 
the greatest care should be taken to see that 
the ventilation is so arranged that the tempera- 
liii'e may be kept between seventy and seventy- 
eight degrees. The rooms should be well 
lighted, but not glaring. 

It has been said that the good hostess is ab- 
solutely self -forgetful. Her manner in receiv- 
ing the guests conveys to each one the assur- 
ance of personal interest and her sense of grati- 
fication at seeing him in her house. 8hy or 
diffident guests become instantly at home with 
her, and everywhere her tactful presence is felt. 
In the most natural way possible she has sup- 
plied a neglected girl with a partner, and that 
without offending her amour propre. Young 
men strive for her favor by doing her bidding 
wherever and whenever called upon. Lonely 
women sitting round the room, imsought and 
unattended, are not known at her entertain- 
ments, neither are small groups of idle men 
lounging round the doorways. 

Sometimes it happens that the hostess of the 
occasion is a stranger to many of the people 
present, having issued invitations on the visit- 
ing list of a friend, a method occasionally re- 
sorted to when entertaining a distinguished 
visitor, or introducing a daughter to society. 



168 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

Where such is the case, the cards of the friend 
whose list has been borrowed were enclosed 
with the invitation, and she is required to re- 
ceive with the hostess, presenting her to those 
guests who otherwise would be strangers to her. 
A good point for the hostess to remember, when 
giving a large ball elsewhere than in her own 
drawing-room, is to invariably invite the 
mothers of her unmarried women guests, leav- 
ing it to their discretion whether to be present 
or not. 

THE CHAPERON 

" A willing and unsung martyr " is the way 
one writer describes that social saint, or sinner 
(according to the point of view), known as the 
chaperon! This, of course, does not apply to 
the young girl's most natural chaperon — her 
mother — for to her to watch over her child is 
a natural duty. The child's triumphs are her 
triumphs; the daughter's happiness is the 
mother's joy! 

It is the chaperon who is employed in order 
to satisfy the proprieties that is very often to 
be pitied. She it is who, with absolute disre- 
gard of self, devotes herself to the inventing 
of new pleasures in which she takes only an 
observer's part; who must remain wakeful, 
alert, sweet, and smiling until her young charge 



BALLS 169 

has sipped the very last drop of honey. But 
the form of chaperonage most unpleasant of 
all is to act in that capacity when the need for 
its necessity is not recognized. In such a pre- 
dicament it would be most natural to feel keenly 
the embarrassment of being unwelcome — yet 
such is frequently the fate of the chaperon. 
It will not, perhaps, be amiss to discuss the 
origin of chaperonage in this country. There 
is no doubt the idea is nothing more or less 
than the modern conception of the system 
which, from time immemorial, has regarded the 
woman as a chattel demanding more or less 
watchful care; yet who shall say that, in its 
modern usage, the system is not absolutely 
essential! The zealous imprisonment of Mo- 
hammedan femininity developed into the more 
civilized but scarcely less liberal custom of 
Spain. In France the chaperon first had her 
real perfection. The Anglo-Saxon followed, 
not so much from the necessity of it as because 
of the slavish English imitation of French 
fashions. In America it is found in its highest 
and most perfect form, for here it is regarded 
as an evidence of the tender respect and loving 
care with which young womanhood should be 
surrounded. It is one of the elegant conventions 
of modern social life and the hall-mark of good 
society. Not very long ago chaperonage was 



J70 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

bitterly assailed as the American counterpart 
of the Spanish duenna system. We were proud 
of the liberality of our traditions; the open, 
free intimacy that existed between our American 
boys and girls who, strong in their innate sense 
of moral responsibility, discretion, and mod- 
esty, resented the imputation which seemed in- 
separable from the idea of a chaperon. In 
brief, we were provincial enough to be able to 
formulate our own social laws and customs. 
Even to-day there are many among us who still 
maintain this position, notwithstanding the fact 
that the American man and woman are to-day 
among the leaders of the human family, and 
have a responsibility to civilization and the 
world at large never before attained by any 
other race or nation. 

To state the subject in a few words, chap- 
eronage enhances the value of the one chap- 
eroned, in which sense some one has said that 
" young men are apt to sigh for the fruit that 
hangs highest." It protects the girl in a thou- 
sand ways, and saves her from the foul breath 
of scandal or the lying intrigues of an enemy. 
It supplies her with a friend and counsellor ex- 
perienced in the ways of the world of men and 
women, and saves the girl from herself. How 
often has some innocent, madcap prank of a 
light-hearted girl given rise to suspicions that 



BALLS - m 

blighted her whole after life ! It is a safe prop- 
osition that, failing a mother's care, no young 
unmarried girl should attend a public or semi- 
public ball. At the present day it is almost a 
universal custom to invite the mother or chap- 
eron of every girl guest to the most private 
and select of evening entertainments. Of 
course, when the mother or chaperon does not 
see the necessity of her attendance, she writes 
to the hostess, thanking her for the invitation, 
pleading an excuse, and sending a maid with 
her charge instead. 

BALL SUPPERS 

There is a wide latitude in the matter of sup- 
pers of this description, but the final choice is 
always determined by the scope of the enter- 
tainment, rather than the facilities of the 
household culinary department. In these days 
of unobtrusive professional caterers all things 
are possible, so that the more ambitious the 
scope of the ball, the more importance will 
naturally be attached to the supper. To begin 
with the most important functions of this de- 
scription, it is usual to serve an elaborate meal 
at midnight. This is not all, however, for in 
some easily accessible corner is kept a constant 
supply of either champagne or claret cup, 
punch, lemonade, tea, coffee, chocolate, hot 



J72 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



bouillon,— these latter kept at a drinkable tem- 
perature, — and served with cakes and tiny- 
sandwiches. 

Frequently it happens that many guests con- 
fine their gastronomic attention to this source 
of supply rather than go through the formal, 
and ofttimes stupid, feast which has been so 
laboriously prepared for them. Few dining- 
rooms could bear the strain of the usual ball- 
room crush, so that the ballroom itself is occa- 
sionally made the scene of the midnight feast. 
At a signal from the hostess servants appear, 
and soon the floor is dotted by numerous small 
tables adapted for four people at most. The 
supper is served in courses, and (according to 
the time of year) may consist of clear soup 
or jellied consomme with rolls, lobster, terra- 
pin or game, hot pastry, jellied meats, salads, 
sandwiches, ices, coffee, etc. Claret or cham- 
pagne, or more often both, are served, the or- 
chestra meanwhile supplying a musical back- 
ground to the scene. It will be seen that this is 
altogether too big an imdertaking for the aver- 
age entertainer. More often than not the buffet 
supper suffices. Indeed, if it was put to the 
vote, there is practically little doubt that the 
vast majority of people— whether as guest or 
hostess— would much prefer the more con- 
venient buffet. Under such circumstances the 



BALLS J 73 

family dining-room can be made to answer the 
purpose. Chairs are placed against the wall; 
the table is performing its traditional groan 
under the weight of the good things provided ; 
flowers, bonbons, fruit are in abundance; and 
when, at eleven o'clock or later, the doors are 
opened (no announcement is made), guests come 
and go at their own sweet will. In winter time 
such hot dishes as creamed oysters with warm 
finger-rolls; lobster a la Netvburg; timbales of 
fish or meat; terrapin; minced meat, or the 
many other dishes of like character, may be 
served. Usually, however, a hot dish, salad, 
ices, sandwiches, rolls, fruit, bonbons, coffee, 
and punch cover all demands. Guests are at 
liberty to partake of all or any of the dishes 
offered, as they choose. Warm dishes, ices, and 
coffee are ordinarily served from the pantry by 
serving men or maids, and offered to the guests 
as they enter the room, together with the 
requisite forks, spoons, napkins, etc. It is a 
safe assertion that the average hostess will find 
it much cheaper, better, and more convenient 
generally to leave this whole matter in the 
hands of a caterer that she can trust, leaving 
her own man or maid to superintend the 
caterer. 

For a small dance, whether in town or coun- 
try, a hostess with a couple of maids will be 



174 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

amply able to satisfy all the demands of a 
bullet supper. The guests may help them- 
selves from a bowl of puuch or lemonade placed 
on a table in the hall, the servants seeing that 
clean glasses are constantly furnished. In 
summer time, of course, hot dishes would be 
out of the question. 

baijL dkess for men and women 
The most elaborate evening costume is se- 
lected for wear at a ball. Short-sleeved, de- 
coUetee, hair dressed high, with jewels if pre- 
ferred, the well-bred woman strives to do honor 
to her hostess as well as herself by the care 
with which she has prepared for the occasion. 
No toilet, providing it is in good taste, is too 
elaborate to do honor to so brilliant an event 
as a formal hall. For the lesser functions, the 
hostess is always privileged more or less in the 
elaborate selection of her gowns, but, in the 
country, simplicity of attire and the careful use 
of jewels mark the woman of good society. 
The debutante wears white, or some other cloud- 
like material, delicately tinted, mayhap. A 
square or heart-shaped bodice; lace sleeves or 
long gloves cover the arms, which, together 
with the total absence of jewels, gives an ex- 
quisitely sweet effect. She may wear jewels 
wilh hor ball gowns, but even here it is best to 



BALLS J75 

use them spariugly. Youth is far more attract- 
ive than jewels. 

Dancing parties do not entail the same elab- 
orate attention to expensive garments as we 
have just described. 

Men wear the orthodox dress-suit or evening- 
costume, winter and summer alike. Many 
freak attempts have been made to inject a little 
variety into the sombi-e garments custom has 
decreed for men, but thus far without avail. 

At military, hunt, and yacht-squadron balls, 
the members who are so entitled wear the cos- 
tume of their organization unless otherwise ar- 
ranged, but no guest who is not entitled to a 
uniform may do the same. 

If it happens that members of a yachting 
party are in the vicinity, the hostess may — if 
she knows them — invite them to her dance, giv- 
ing them permission to wear their white duck 
or flannel suits. Finally, the well-bred man or 
woman may always be trusted to wear the right 
dress at the right time. 



RECEPTIONS 

The great popularity of the afternoon recep- 
tion, at least from the hostess' point of view, 
is easily accounted for. The entertainment 
to be provided is, comparatively speaking, 
very simple, an almost unlimited number of 
guests may be invited for the same day, and 
when the hostess has seen to it that all of her 
preliminary arrangements have been properly 
made, she may feel free from those qualms that 
beset her on the eve of a dinner party or dance. 

If her appointments are correct, and if her 
visiting list enables her to invite a goodly num- 
ber of agreeable g-uests to her house, she may 
rest serene, confident in the prospect of dis- 
charging an accumulation of social obligations 
with no fear of a fiasco. Her guests will not 
demand novelty, or expect that her reception 
should dilTer materially from ninety-nine out 
of a hundred other similar entertainments. 

But, for this very reason, — that no original- 
ity is required in the details, — the hostess will 
be all the more particular to see, in making her 
preparations, that everything is done properly, 
and that such arrangements as she does make 
J76 



RECEPTIONS 177 

are effective, in good taste, and convenient for 
her guests. 

Everything should be of the very best that 
can be procured. The discriminating guest 
will be more agreeably impressed by simple, 
but elegant, and particularly delicious refresh- 
ments than by a vast display from the caterer's ; 
by a few superb flowers artistically arranged 
than by heterogeneous masses transplanted 
wholesale from the florist's window. 

The general tone of the rooms, the walls, 
hangings, etc., should be taken into considera- 
tion in selecting the flowers, candle-shades, or 
whatever will be striking in color, in the way of 
decoration; the final effect should, above all 
things, be harmonious. 

INVITATIONS 

For the elegant and elaborate reception, the 
invitations, which should be issued about two 
weeks in advance of the date, follow the usual 
form: 

Mrs. and Mrs. John Henry Smith 

At Home 

on Thursday, June the first, 

from four until seven o'clock. 

Fifty-two West Third Street. 



178 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

If the reception is only an afternoon aflfair 
to which men are not invited, of course the 
name of the hostess' husband does not appear 
with her own on the imitation. If tlie name of 
a daughter is to be given as well, it appears 
on a line directly below that of her mother. In 
case the reception is given to mark the debut 
of a younger daughter her name is given in 
full, below that of the elder, or else the name 
of the elder daughter is omitted altogether. 

If the entertainment be given in special 
honor of some other person, the name of such 
guest of honor appears at the bottom of the 
card of invitation, thus: 

To meet 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Jones. 

In the case of the mere " informal tea," the 
invitation consists of simply the hostess' visit- 
ing card, issued perhaps a week in advance, 
with the date and hours wi-itten in ink below 
the engraved name, thus : 

Thursday, June the first, 
from three to six o'clock. 

If there is a special guest of honor, the host- 



RECEPTIONS 



ess writes at the top of her card the additional 
line: 

To meet Mrs. Charles Jones. 

ACKNOWLEDGING INVITATIONS 

It is not correct to send a written acceptance 
of the invitation to an " At Home," or a 
" Tea." One's presence at the appointed time 
is all that is necessary. 

If the recipient of the invitation does not 
expect to attend, however, acknowledgment 
should be made on the day of the entertain- 
ment by merely sending a visiting card, by 
post, or better, by special messenger. 

If the invitation is given in the names of 
more than one woman, two cards should be 
sent for regrets ; if in the name of husband and 
wife, the woman regretting sends one card only, 
the man two, the reason for this distinction 
being, of course, that a woman would not send 
a card to her hostess ' husband. 

In the case of a mother and several daugh- 
ters entertaining together, some persons leave 
a number of cards, one for each ; but as a rule 
two cards will be considered sufficient, and 
many persons regard a greater number as in- 
elegant. 



180 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



THE EECEPTION 

Imagine yourself arriving as an imited 
guest at a ceremonious reception. 

You may, if you are Mrs. or Miss Jones, be 
wearing your smartest morning gown, thougli 
you will feel far better pleased with yourself 
to be encased in something more elaborate- 
say, a handsome reception gown (high-necked, 
of course), with a rich hat or bonnet to corre- 
spond, light gloves, etc. 

You are certain to find your hostess decked 
out in such a costume of her very best, out of 
compliment to her guests; she wears a train 
and is probably more gorgeously bejewelled 
than her visitors. She and her assistant 
hostesses do not, of course, wear hats or 
bonnets. 

At the evening reception, hostess and guests 
alike wear full-dress, decollete, and you would 
no more think of appearing in your bonnet on 
such an occasion than in your rubbers. 

At an informal tea the usual visiting cos- 
tume is all-sufficient. 

If you have the ill-luck to be Mr. Jones, in- 
stead of Mrs. or Miss, you must be clad, for 
the afternoon, in your frock coat (or, now- 
adays, your " cutaway," if you prefer), light 
trousers, light tie and gloves, and patent boots. 



Receptio ns ist 

The frock coat demands, the cutaway forbids, 
the top hat. 

Whatever else you may or may not do, don't 
wear your gloves in the drawing-room! If 
there is danger of your forgetting this, leave 
them at home ; you might almost as well neglect 
to remove your hat as to offer your hostess a 
gloved hand. The gloved hand (male) is some- 
times offered to a woman on the stage — in so- 
ciety never. 

In the evening you must wear full dress with 
white waistcoat, white bow tie, and gloves. 

Now, being finally arrayed and in your right 
mind, you arrive at the house at such time be- 
tween the hours named in the invitation as best 
suits your convenience. Don't go so early as 
to suggest the eager child, who can hardly wait 
for the hour of the birthday-party to arrive, 
and whohas to be ultimately dragged home; on 
the other hand, go early enough to make your 
stay of the requisite fifteen minutes or half- 
hour and still escape before the hours of invita- 
tion have expired. 

If the entertainment is an elaborate affair, 
you find a strip of carpet rolled from the door to 
the curb, and, in bad weather, an awning erected 
over it, with a man-servant at the entrance to 
open carriage doors, give numbers, etc. 

As you reach the house door it is thrown 



J82 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

open by a servant, who directs you to the 
dressing-room; there another attendant takes 
charge of your wraps, if you are burdened with 
any that you prefer not to wear in the house. 
Upon descending to the drawing-room, your 
husband, if any, in the rear, you may be met 
at the threshold by the pompous butler. This 
is a very dismaying experience, but keep your 
presence of mind — if you can remember your 
name and mention it to him, all is well ; he will 
repeat the name that you have confided to him 
so loudly that the hostess, without a moment's 
hesitation, greets you as if you were her dear- 
est friend, regardless of the fact that to her 
you are only " Nellie's red-haired cousin." 

The hostess stands just inside the drawing- 
room door, gives you her hand and the smile- 
that-won 't-come-off-from-three-to-six, and after 
a brief, cordial greeting, if other guests are be- 
hind you, passes you on to her husband, daugh- 
ter, or other assistant hostess with an intro- 
duction, if needed. 

Don't delay the procession on entering. 
Your room is better than your company in 
front of the receiving line, and if you haven't 
sense enough to get yourself off you will be 
forcibly removed in the direction of the dining- 
room or other remote spot. 

At about this time you are very likely to be 



RECEPTIONS J83 



sorry you came, but keep the fact to yourself^ 
cheer up — think how pretty the flowers are, 
how badlj' your neighbor is dressed, or admire 
the artificial lights (the daylight is always ex- 
cluded at receptions because it costs nothing) ; 
say some of these pleasant things to any friend 
you are lucky enough to spy out, and tell her 
how you love that Hungarian orchestra over 
there in the alcove behind those palms, espe- 
ciaJhj when it plays Sfrauss—^i you feel sure 
that it isn't a German band discoursing 
Wagner. 

Much of the furniture has been removed 
from the reception rooms, so you find it easy 
to make your way gracefully and unconsciously 
toward the dining-room, which is better than to 
make the dash of a bloodhound in that direc- 
tion the moment you have dropped the hostess' 
hand, after the manner of One with a Steady 
Purpose. When you find yourself, to your 
mild surprise, in the dining-room, you accept the 
situation thrust upon you, and beam and purr 
over the charming arrangement of the tables, 
with their flowers, silver, and glass; if the en- 
tertainment is not of too stately an order young 
women are seated at the ends of the table, one 
pouring chocolate, the other tea — if it be after- 
noon — coffee, if evening. Punch, perhaps, in 
the corner! 



J84 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



Finally some one offers you something— you 
can't help that. If you want it, take it. If 
not, having learned to say "no," be firm. 
Don't sample everything, and remember that 
chocolate and coffee are better not mixed, even 
if it is a free lunch; on the other hand, get out 
of the dining-room quickly if you don't want 
anything — there are others who do. At an 
elaborate reception do not be surprised to see 
a large table heaped with salads and sand- 
wiches, cream, cake, bonbons, etc. 

Servants will see that guests are served ; they 
also remove used plates, etc. But you must not 
expect to be seated; eating is not the serious 
business of the day, and there isn't room, un- 
less you are entitled to the prerogatives of roy- 
alty or extreme age and infirmity. 

If you yearn for wine, cast your eye casually 
upon the sideboard; there may be wine and 
there may not. 

Seek not for souvenirs to carry home ! Even 
being a grandmother will not excuse your tak- 
ing " one of those pretty bonbons " home to 
little Algernon in your pocket; buy Algernon 
something at a shop on your way home if he 
must have it. 

At a vast formal gathering the hostess will 
not expect you to make any adieux— she has 
her hands full in greeting the arrivals, and 



RECEPTIONS J 85 

should not be obliged to speed the parting 
guest as well. At every afternoon reception it 
is good form to leave your cards in the hall 
before taking your departure; you will prob- 
ably find a convenient tray or salver for the 
purpose. The same number of cards should be 
left as you would send for regrets if you were 
not attending. 

Cards are not commonly left at an evening 
reception. 

If men have been generally included in the 
list of guests — in other words, if the invitation 
is given in the name of the hostess' husband 
as well as in her own, the host stands by his 
wife's side, receiving the guests immediately 
after she has greeted them. This, however, is 
not so important unless the host and hostess 
are young people entertaining shortly after 
their marriage, and, in any case, the host is 
free to move about among the guests, especially 
toward the close of the reception. The hostess 
should not stir from her post during the recep- 
tion hour; nothing is more painfully embar- 
rassing to the guest who may be a stranger to 
most of the people present than to arrive and 
not find the hostess immediately, with her cor- 
dial greeting. On the other hand, if the enter- 
tainment is in honor of a special guest, she 
should be taken by the host, before its close, to 



J86 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

the dining-room, where he sees that refresh- 
ments are offered to her. 

An assistant hostess can do much to deserve 
the name by moving about the rooms, seeing 
that guests are not left stranded, suggesting a 
trip to the dining-room, making an occasional 
introduction, and breaking up those stupid 
blockades which are often caused by the gather- 
ing of all the guests in one spot — in short, she 
should keep things moving. 

THE DEBUT 

At a debut, the debutante stands next her 
mother, in the position of honor, and is very 
particularly presented to all the guests as they 
enter. 

It is considered in good taste for her to be 
gowned simply — as elegantly as she chooses, 
but not too elaborately. There should be, on 
this occasion, some suggestion of the " sweet 
girl graduate ' ' in the simplicity of her attire — 
white is most in favor — as distinguished from 
the more gorgeous gowns, jewels, etc., which 
she may elect to wear at subsequent entertain- 
ments. 



MUSICALES AND DRAMATICS 

When the hostess craves something in the 
way of novelty, a favorite form of entertain- 
ment is private theatricals, or a musicale. The 
musicale is better adapted to the amusement of 
older guests, as amateur dramatics are apt to 
pall upon the blase. 

THE MUSICALE 

One point to bear in mind in planning a 
musicale is that the performers should provide 
a diversity of entertainment. If there are to 
be several, do not have more than one solo 
pianist, as a rule, or more than one performer 
on any single instrument. There is so much 
variety in the human voice that it is not ob- 
jectionable to engage several vocalists, though 
it would be better to have a contralto, or a male 
voice, with a soprano, for instance, than to 
have two or three sopranos. 

The average auditor enjoys listening to sing- 
ing more than to any instrumental music, so it 
is well to have your programme made up 
largely of songs with only a few instrumental 
numbers. 

187 



J88 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

The piano and tlie violin, when well played, 
appeal to almost all music-lovers; such other 
instruments as the harp rarely interest, aside 
from their novelty. Have only the very best 
performers obtainable, and cut the list short 
rather than add to it an artist who is below the 
general standard. The inevitable comparison 
is unfair to that less gifted or experienced mu- 
sician, and also most trying to the audience. 

Just as the style of music is to be varied, so 
should one take pains, in arranging the pro- 
gramme, to select numbers which afford variety. 
An entire evening of " Beloved, beloved," 
" Eyes, lips, and glances," is almost nauseat- 
ing; unlimited grand opera is a strain to those 
lacking the severe classical taste; and more 
than one broadly " funny " song is not to be 
endured by those who resent the harnessing to- 
gether of jokes and music di\"ine. 

Do not allow the vocalists to select from their 
repertoire only songs written in a foreign 
tongue; one or two in French, Italian, or Ger- 
man will suffice to enable the superior linguist 
to gloat visibly over the rest of the audience in 
the certainty as to whether a smile or a pensive 
look is called for; and those who are less for- 
tunate resent the awkward position in which 
they find themselves when cut loose from their 
native tongue. 



MUSICALES AND DRAMATICS J89 

One of the commonest mistakes in arranging 
for a musicale in a private house is the crowd- 
ing of the music-rooms with rows of chairs 
placed so close together as to make the guests 
most uncomfortable. It is generally necessary 
to employ those convenient little folding-chairs 
which one hires for such occasions, but if your 
rooms are small, then let your guest list be also 
very limited; better offer a comfortable even- 
ing's entertainment to a few guests than im- 
press your entire acquaintance with the idea 
that they have been treated like sardines. 

Do not have too long a programme, and when 
it is about half over there should be an inter- 
mission of some minutes. Indeed, the pro- 
gramme should not be rushed through at any 
point; all the songs are more effective for 
a little pause between them, and an audi- 
ence enjoys exchanging comments on each 
number. 

If there are many performers, it is well to 
avoid encores, if possible, as the natural cour- 
tesy of the invited audience inclines it to extend 
such a compliment to every performer, regard- 
less of merit, if an encore has been demanded 
from any one of their number. The evident 
wishes of the audience, however, must of course 
control, unless the performer be one of the 
great professional aiii'ts, who has unshakable 



J90 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

rules on the subject and who is definitely en- 
gaged for only certain songs. 



INVITATIONS 

The cards issued for an elaborate musicale 
are in all respects similar to those for a recep- 
tion, with the addition of the single word 
" Music, or " Musicale," in the lower left cor- 
ner. For a less formal afternoon musicale, 
this word may be added in writing to the in- 
vitation upon the hostess' visiting card, as sug- 
gested in the article on " Keceptions," al- 
though, for even an afternoon entertainment 
of elegant and elaborate appointments, the en- 
graved cards are more suitable. 

As with the case of ordinary receptions, in- 
vitations to a musicale in the words " At 
Home," according to the visiting-card form, are 
acknowledged merely by attendance, or by the 
sending of visiting cards as regrets. 

On the other hand, any invitation requesting 
the pleasure of one's compamj (with the single 
exception of the invitation to a church wed- 
ding) requires a formal, written acceptance, or 
regret, in the third person. 

The arrangement of the dining-room, the 
serving of refreshments, etc., are the same as 
at the reception without special music, except- 



MUSICALES AND DRAMATICS >9l 

ing that less elaborate refreshments are suit- 
able in the case of the musicale. 

Hostess and guests are costumed as for the 
ordinary reception. 

Servants remove the extra chairs from the 
music-room at the conclusion of the pro- 
gramme, allowing the guests to move about 
freely. 

As punctual attendance is expected at a 
musicale, the hostess will not find it necessary 
to stand by her place at the drawing-room door 
throughout the entire time named in her invita- 
tion, as in the case at a simple reception, when 
the guests come at any time between the hours 
stated. 

Simple little programmes, attractively 
printed, should be provided for the guests. 

At the very informal afternoon " tea with 
music," there need not be any set programme. 
The numbers may be rendered at intervals dur- 
ing the reception hours. 

PRIVATE THEATRICALS 

History has yet to chronicle the time when 
amateur dramatics have been successfully car- 
ried through without real tribulation, at one 
stage or another, on the part of the " man- 
ager. ' ' 

Unless the hostess has had real experience 



192 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

in just such undertakings, she will be wise if, 
after deciding on this, to many, very interest- 
ing form of entertainment, she secures the aid 
of some friend, man or woman, whose experi- 
ence and enthusiasm fit him or her for the role 
of " manager "; to this friend she should dele- 
gate all authority, and the word of this man- 
ager must be law throughout the rehearsals. 

It is a well-known fact that professional 
actors, however often their " artistic tempera- 
ment " may lead them to disregard the con- 
ventional obligations of business and social life, 
are, nevertheless, most punctilious about re- 
hearsals. It is a professional crime to be late 
for a rehearsal, and to be altogether absent 
from one amounts almost to a capital offence. 

Furthermore, although in the heat of sudden 
anger or impatience, they may wrangle and dis- 
pute with their manager, in cooler moments 
they will always recognize the fact that the 
word of the person directing rehearsals should 
be final on all points. 

These are excellent things for the amateur 
to keep before him. 

In other words, the discipline at rehearsals 
should be almost military; the best managers 
are despotic, and it is from the natural hesita- 
tion on the part of the society manager to 
play this role of despot, as well as from the un- 



MUSICALES AND DRAMATICS J93 

willingness of the amateur actor to be tyran- 
nized over, that the endless conflicts result, end- 
ing finally in that state of mutiny which has 
come to be considered characteristic of amateur 
theatricals. 

However, some men and many women in so- 
ciety display a great fitness for this very task 
of " producing " a play; they combine en- 
thusiasm, dramatic instinct, and tact in dealing 
with people; to such a one the task should be 
entrusted. 

In the more ambitious of amateur efforts, the 
services of a professional " coach " are often 
engaged. This should ensure a certain degree 
of professional atmosphere and of " finish " 
for the performance, besides relieving the host- 
ess of much responsibility regarding details. 
Also, it is a very real advantage when the per- 
formers will more readily submit to sugges- 
tions and directions from such a professional 
manager than from one chosen from their own 
circle. 

The hostess, of course, at a private enter- 
tainment, invites or requests those friends who 
have been selected to take part, though she 
should consult with her manager first in mak- 
ing uiJ the cast. She commonly considers it 
the part of wisdom and tact to choose her ama- 
teur i^erformers from a small clique whose 



J94 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

members are on very intimate terms with one 
another. This is a mistake. As a matter of 
fact and experience, the players are frequently 
more seriously hampered by embarrassment 
and self-consciousness in performing scenes 
with their most intimate friends than with per- 
sons whom they know only slightly. In the 
presence of the latter they find it easier to for- 
get their own personality, which should be lost 
in that of the character portrayed. 

For the leading roles, one or two persons 
must be secured who have shown real talent for 
this sort of entertainment. In the selection of 
minor characters, remember, if quite inexperi- 
enced young people must be taken, that per- 
sonal beauty and grace in the young women, 
ease of manner and self-possession in the men, 
go a great way toward making the performance 
a pleasure rather than a pain to the audience. 

Sometimes, it must be admitted, in amateur 
dramatics, as, alas ! in the theatrical profession 
itself, interest centres in the personality of a 
performer, and the audience enjoys watching 
the work, whether meritorious or not, of the 
social lion, whose part may have been assigned 
solely because of the abnormal interest that the 
" world " takes in all of the doings of this 
particular personage. 

If the performance is exijcrimental — unless 



MUSICALES AND DRAMATICS 



the amateur artists are tried " old stagers " of 
proved ability — a very light comedy or farce is 
the only style of play that should be attempted. 
The classic drama, as rendered by one's nearest 
and dearest, with a doorway or arch separating 
players and audience, or emotional scenes by 
self-conscious acquaintances, painfully and 
visibly embarrassed by their costumes, are al- 
most more than those of us can bear who are 
blessed with a sense of humor. 



THEATRE PARTIES 

The first essential of attendance upon the 
theatre or opera is to endeavor to be in one's 
place a few minutes before the performance 
begins. If for good reason one is late, it is 
only considerate to remain in the lobby until 
the first scene or number is completed before 
taking one's place. Wraps should be removed 
before reaching the seats, and this may be done 
either in the lobby or on the way to the seats. 
In ordinary attendance at the theatre or opera 
the seats have been procured in advance. A 
lady should not be detained in the public lobby 
while the gentleman takes his place in the line 
and secures such seats as he may be able to 
procure. The ladies precede the gentleman to 
the ticket-taker's position, where he first pre- 
sents the tickets, receives the coupons, procures 
a programme for each person, and again allows 
the ladies to precede him as he gives the cou- 
pons to the usher. On reaching the seats the 
wraps, if not checked in the lobby, are placed 
over the back of the seat, and the ladies at once 
remove their hats. These are either placed 
under the seats or are laid in the lap. Should 

m 



THEATRE PARTIES 197 

a lady neglect to remove her liat, it is quite 
proper for those behind to politely ask that she 
do so. No lady will refuse to comply or -will 
be offended by the request. It is also proper 
for the person making the request to thank her 
upon the first sign of compliance. 

If a box is taken, the wraps are removed out- 
side of the box. On entering, the chaperons or 
elderly ladies precede. It is their privilege 
to occupy the seats nearest to the rail, but they 
usually waive this in favor of the younger 
ladies. The gentlemen take seats in the rear 
of the party. No gentleman will leave a lady 
alone in a box. lie will ask her to walk about. 
Should she not desire to do so, it is his place 
to remain with her. While it is regarded as a 
manly prerogative to leave the seat between 
acts, no gentleman will do so more than once 
during a performance. Should he do so more 
than once he ought to witness the remainder 
of the performance from the rear of the hall 
rather than climb over the other occupants so 
often. It is well to place the coupons, by which 
the seats are held, in the waistcoat pocket, 
rather than in the wraps, as it is sometimes 
necessary to have them convenient in case of 
dispute or mistake. 

The most important point to be remembered 
in attendance on theatre or opera is not to dis- 



J98 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

tiirb those in the vicinity who wish to hear the 
performance by talking or any avoidable noise. 
Even the rattling of the programme is annoy- 
ing. It is to be remembered that the intervals 
and intermission will afford abundant oppor- 
tunity for such conversation as one desires to 
indulge in while in attendance upon a theatrical 
or operatic performance. The recounting of 
what is coming next in the play, so often in- 
dulged in through a vain desire to " air one's 
erudition," or the hmnming of the tune and 
keeping time with hands or feet, are extremely 
annoying. Should any be guilty of such gross 
rudeness, it is quite right and proper to ask 
them to desist. If they have done it thought- 
lessly, they will apologize and refrain from re- 
peating the offence; but if it was done from 
ignorance and rudeness, no fear need be enter- 
tained of injuring their feelings. 

In applauding, hand-clapping is sufficient 
demonstration of approval. Stamping, whis- 
tling, and cat-calling are the chartered rights 
of the " gods " only. 

Calling during the intermission is often in- 
dulged in by those occupying boxes, as well as 
those in the body of the house. There is an 
objection to its indulgence by the latter, except 
among those who occupy aisle seats. When 
calling in a box, if the bos door is locked, it is 



THEATRE PARTIES J99 

proper to knock upon the door for permission 
to enter. If there is only a portiere, entrance 
should be quietly effected, and the call made. If 
a person is known only to a gentleman in the 
box, the call would better not be made. If one 
knows only a lady in the party, she should in- 
troduce the caller to the chaperon of her party. 
She is not expected to introduce her caller to 
any of the others unless she pleases, and such 
introductions do not obligate either party to 
further acquaintance. The call should termi- 
nate before the performance begins again. 

If a gentleman escorts a lady to the theatre, 
the proper dress is full evening dress. This 
means the long-tailed coat and the silk top hat, 
or black opera hat, which is more convenient. 
The short-skirted dinner coat, or " Tuxedo," 
may be worn with gentlemen or with a lady 
who is nearly related to him, but not otherwise. 
If a gentleman is in company with his wife or 
near relative and other ladies, or if he is one 
of a party in a box, the long-tailed coat must 
be worn, (ientlemen's gloves are white and 
are worn throughout the performance. This is 
not imperative, and is by no means general. 
Dark gloves are worn and are laid aside with 
the wraps. 

Ladies who occupy seats in the orchestra of 
a theatre should wear high-necked and long- 



200 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

sleeved dresses. Those who occupy boxes wear 
low-necked and short-sleeved dresses — in fact, 
are privileged to wear ball-dresses. 

Strictly speaking, good society does not permit 
a young unmarried lady to attend the theatre 
or opera without a chaperon. Where men and 
women have an acquaintance of long standing 
strict interpretation of this law is not insisted 
upon. But a theatre party must be i^roperly 
chaperoned; and this is insisted upon in the 
case of a party of young people, when the 
theatre is followed by a supper. The chaperon 
must meet her charges punctually, and her 
duties are not over until she sees them properly 
returned to their homes. It is not necessary 
that she escort them home in person, but she 
must know that they are properly attended 
thither. 

A theatre party may either follow a dinner 
or be followed by a supper. It should be com- 
posed of an equal number of ladies and gentle- 
men. To secure this it is only fitting that the 
invitations be issued a week or ten days in ad- 
vance, to enable each guest invited to make ar- 
rangements to be there. It is not usual to issue 
engraved invitations, nor should the invitations 
be verbal. The points to observe in the written 
invitation are the time, place, kind of perform- 
ance, and the statement as to whether the seats 



THEATRE PARTIES 20( 

are orchestra or box. This latter is necessary 
to enable the ladies to dress properly. The 
hour will tell the guests whether there is a din- 
ner before or a supper afterward. This form 
may be used: 

628 Forest Street, 
January 3rd, 19 — . 
Deab Miss Gibson: 

We are planning a box-party at the Grand 
for Thursday evening of next week to see 
Maude Adams in " L'Aiglon." My sister, Mrs. 
Jamieson, will chaperon us, and, if you will 
kindly consent to join us, tve 7vill number eight. 
If this is quite agreeable to you ive ivill call 
for yoxi at half-past seven. 

Most sincerely yours, 

Charles F. Simonds, 

The seats are obtained beforehand, and are 
gotten well forward and close together. If it 
is the intention to provide dinner before the 
theatre, the dinner should be called promptly 
at 6.30 o'clock, so as to allow ample margin to 
reach the theatre in time. If the dinner is held 
at an hotel or cafe, and if the party is a box- 
party, the dinner must be laid in a private 
dining-room, as the ladies will be in full even- 
ing dress. If it is a theatre party, orchestra 



202 THE MODERN HOSTE^ ^__ 

seats are quite proper. A box is supplied, if 
possible, for the opera. 

On all occasions where a dinner is given at 
a cafe or public dining-room, the table must be 
secured some time before to avoid disappoint- 
ment. Arrangements should be made for the 
sort of dinner required, even to the prepara- 
tion of the menu. This is a great aid in the 
good service of the dinner. The hostess, or the 
bachelor, as the case may be, is on hand early 
to receive the guests in the lobby, to check the 
wraps for the ladies. When all of the guests 
have arrived, the way is led to the dining-room, 
the host leading with the chaperon, or the host- 
ess leading, as the case may be. The ladies 
and gentlemen of the party do not enter arm- 
in-arm. The places are indicated by a card at 
each cover. It is not obligatory to wait more 
than five minutes for a tardy guest. The din- 
ner is then carried out, in all respects, similarly 
to one given at a private house. In seating the 
party the host should reserve for himself and 
the chaperon the seats nearest the aisle if the 
seats are in the orchestra. In elaborate and 
expensive affairs the host sends his guests 
home in a carriage. 

Sometimes the host sends the tickets to the 
houses of the invited guests, and either awaits 
them in the lobby of the theatre, when all go 



THEATRE PARTIES 203 

in together, or takes bis place in the theatre 
and sahites his guests on arrival, by rising to 
greet them. 

There is greater need of long notice to the 
guests, and of more prompt acknowledgment 
by the guest, in the case of theatre parties than 
in ordinary parties or receptions. Invitations 
must be very explicit as to day, hour, and place 
of meeting. There is such need of advance 
preparation and notice on occasions of this kind, 
that there must be no delays or misunderstand- 
ing. 



GARDEN PARTIES 

A GARDEN party is nothing less than a recep- 
tion held out-of-doors. The only modifications 
are those which the place entails. There is 
much in f^vor of making the most of the gar- 
dens, flowers, trees, and lawns on days when 
the weather permits. Every one enjoys the 
cool shade and the abundant room on these 
occasions. If hostesses, in their summer resi- 
dences, realized the greater comfort to their 
guests, they would utilize these accessories 
more than they do. 

The fickleness of the weather is the only con- 
tingency for which the hostess must be pre- 
pared, to meet which only reasonable foresight 
is necessary. 

When preparations are made for a garden 
party, or fete champetre, there must also be 
ample provision for transferring the reception 
easily and quickly from the garden to the house 
in case of bad weather. 

If the occasion is formal, engraved invita- 
tions must be used. They are in block letters 
or black script on white paper or cards, and 
may be worded thus : 

204 



GARDEN PARTIES 205 

3Irs. Charles Edmund 
requests the pleasure of 



company on Thursday afternoon, 

July third, 

from four until seven o'clock. 

Garden Party. The Bower. 

Or the invitation may take the form of an 
" At Home " card with the words " Garden 
Party " in the lower left-hand corner. It is 
desirable to furnish your guests with necessary 
information about the arrival and departure 
of trains. 

On informal occasions an ordinary letter of 
invitation may be sent either by mail or mes- 
senger. These notes are of such friendly tone 
as the acquaintance with the person invited will 
warrant. The invitations are answered in the 
usual way. One may prepare for the occasion 
according to the style of invitation sent out, 
knowing that if printed cards are used the en- 
tertainment will be formal. 

It is a common custom for the hostess to send 
her visiting card with the words " Garden 
Party " on the lower left-hand corner and the 



206 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

time and place on the lower right. In reply 
to one of these an invited guest will answer with 
a polite note. 

The preparations involve putting both the 
garden and house in order. The lawn is 
mowed ; gravel walks are rolled, and chairs are 
placed about in shady places and on the ve- 
randas. The house is decorated with flowers 
and the doors and windows left open and in- 
viting. 

The hostess may undulge her taste in music, 
and provide it in any form convenient or pleas- 
ing to her, or may omit it altogether. 

If the place is large enough to afford room 
for games of croquet, tennis, or golf, all of 
these opportunities should be offered to the 
guests. The chief amusements are of a social 
nature, the guests moving freely about, and 
partaking of refreshment. It is, therefore, not 
necessary to provide a chair for each guest; 
but comfortable lounging places, wicker or 
rustic chairs, benches, and settees are always 
acceptable. It is also well to spread rugs here 
and there where the ground may be damp. 
Especial attention must be paid to the comfort 
of the delicate or old. 

The refreshments will include such berries 
and fruits as may be in season, with ices, cold 
drinks, cakes, sandwiches, salad, claret, or other 



GARDEN PARTIES 207 

cup, and lemonade. These are served under an 
awning, tent, or bower decorated with flowers^ 
and dispensed by servants at the call of the 
guests. Or this may all be inexpensively and 
effectively served from the shade of the 
veranda. 

Punctually on the hour the hostess should 
order the musical programme begun. She 
should be ready on the lawn to greet each ar- 
rival. She may enjoy the shade of either a hat 
or her parasol. As the guests arrive they are 
greeted by shaking hands, and are introduced 
to strangers. If the attendance is very large, 
she will have little time for anything but greet- 
ings and adieus. Then she must rely upon the 
help of her friends. If the party is a small 
one, she will be able to mingle with her guests 
and not run the risk of failing to see a new 
arrival. 

The guests, on their arrival, enter the house, 
where rooms on the ground floor are set aside 
for their convenience. Wraps, veils, and coats 
are there laid aside before going out to greet 
the hostess on the lawn. After this guests 
largely entertain themselves. The gentlemen 
bring refreshment to the ladies. It is quite 
proper to remain during the entire afternoon, 
but no call should be shorter than half an hour, 
during- which time the guest should be as prom- 



208 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

inent as good taste allows. This out of defer- 
ence to the hostess. If one is obliged to make 
only a short stay, it is well not to take formal 
leave of the hostess, but to slip away as quietly 
as possible. When the party is very large it 
is customary for the guests to leave cards, 
either upon entering or lea^ing the house. 

There is absolutely nothing to be prescribed 
in the way of dress for either ladies or gentle- 
men at a garden party. Ladies may indulge 
their tastes in the lightest dresses for after- 
noon wear in any and every direction. Gentle- 
men may wear frock coat with silk hat, or a 
yachting or flannel or serge suit with straw 
hat. Gentlemen do not wear gloves on such 
occasions. While in England, and in the ultra- 
fashionable sets in America, gentlemen dress 
de rigueitr, the greater inclination is towards 
an informal dress. 



VISITING AND HOUSE PABTIES 

THE INVITATION 

In asking guests to enjoy the hospitality of 
one's roof, the hostess should state expressly 
for how long a period the wished-for friend is 
expected to stay. The best way to accomplish 
this is to mention the exact dates for the guest's 
arrival and departure. 

Vague and indefinite terms, such as Can you 
not stay with us over Christmas? or, Won't 
you join us for the Fairfield Hunt next Thurs- 
day? are likely, unless hostess and guest are 
intimate friends, rather to puzzle and confuse 
the receiver of the invitation than to convey a 
compliment to him. An exception to this ex- 
actitude may, however, be allowed in the case 
of invitations from the owners of very large 
establishments. Here the guest is, of course, 
aware that it is no inconvenience to his hostess 
if, within reasonable limits, he tacitly fixes the 
dates of his coming and going to suit himself. 
Nor is it amiss in the case of old acquaintances 
to suggest two or three dates for a visit, or 
even for the guest to fix the time for his coming 
309 



210 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

himself. Ordinarily, though, it is best for the 
hostess to state not only the day and hour when 
she is most prepared to welcome the coming 
guest, but also for her to specify the train or 
boat on which the visitor should come. 

Nothing shows much better the difference be- 
tween a tactful hostess and the reverse than the 
wording of her invitation. The woman is 
poorly equipped who pens the same letter to 
each friend, and does not rather drop some spe- 
cial lines implying a knowledge of the tastes 
and wishes of each visitant. A hint in an in- 
vitation as to the gayeties to be exi:)ected, with 
a word or two about other congenial friends 
looked for, is always appropriate. The follow- 
ing imaginary letters may serve as models : 



Mayfield, 
July 3, 19—. 
My Dear Mk. Maitlaxd : 

We are having Efjte Nelson and a friend of 
hers and George and Houston Rutland here for 
a tveek. I should be glad if you could stop 
over with tts from Saturday until Monday. 
Effie's friend. Miss Morris, is quite a crack 
tennis player, so I know you two tiill be con- 
genial. 

Reynolds will meet you with the trap at the 



VISITING AND HOU SE PARTIES 2U 

three-o'clock train; I think you icill find ijou 
leave the Grand Central at 3.40. 

Trusting me may see you, I am, as always. 
Very cordially yours, 

Kathkyn M. Baikd. 

Or, 

Williamsport, 
July 11, 19—. 
My Dear Miss Irving : 

We are expecting a few congenial souls here 
next week, and I hope you can arrange to come 
on the fifteenth and stay till the twenty-second. 
Florence Broivn and her brother, the Webstcrs, 
and one or two others have promised, so only 
your presence is needed to complete our party 
and our pleasure. If you can come, I woxdd 
suggest the three-o'clock train from Broad 
Street Station. That ivill bring you straight 
through to Elmsford, where I will meet you. 

We have our boat in commission, and several 
dances on hand, so that yachting clothes and 
evening gowns toill come in handily. 

Trusting that tve may not be disappointed in 
expecting you, I am, my dear Miss Irving, 
Very sincerely yours, 

Maegaeet p. Classon. 



Or, 



212 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

Normandie, 
May 20, 19 — . 
Deak Mks, Rivington : 

We should he ever so glad if you and Mr. 
Rivington could spend a few days ivith us he- 
fore leaving for the other side. We have the 
dearest little place here, which I'm sure you'll 
lihe as much as I do. Everything is in green 
now and the rides hereabouts are beautiful. 
The Anaronda Golf Club is barely a mile away, 
and my husband will give Mr. Rivington a 
chance to try conclusions on our country links. 
Do think this over, and, if you can, give us 
from Friday evening till Monday of next week. 
Ever cordially yours, 

Norma Cuetin Nobbison. 

answering invitations to house parties 

Should a hostess not attend to the little mat- 
ters of naming exact times spoken of above, the 
person invited is at liberty to specify these for 
himself in the event of his accepting the invita- 
tion, leaving it open to his hostess, however, to 
modify his dates, should they not altogether 
suit her. When the person invited is not an 
intimate friend of the hostess, or when the in- 
vitation is to a house party of a more or less 
formal sort, an answer should be given 
promptly. The following are proper forms of 



VISITING AND HOUSE PARTIES 2J3 



acceptance to the invitations in the last two 
letters given above: 

19 — Walnut St., 
Philadelphia. 
My Dear Mks. Classon : 

I am delighted to say that nothing stands in 
the road of my accepting your invitation to 
Williamsport. I haven't seen Florence for 
over a year, and shall he ever so glad to have 
a chat ivith her once again. 

I shall follow your thoughtful advice about 
the trains. With hind regards, I am, 
Very sincerely yours, 

Ethel Eandall Irving. 
July 13, 19—. 

Or, 

2 — Madison Avenue, 
New Yorlc. 
My Dear Mrs. Norrison: 

Mr. Rivington and I ivill he charmed to ac- 
cept your hind invitation for next Friday. I 
have heard a good deal of " Normandie," and 
am dying to look it over. Mr. Rivington was 
mahing a careful examination of his golf things 
only an hour ago, and is, I hnoiv, delighted to 



2J4 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

get a chance to try conclusions with a cracl: 
player like your husband. 

With kind regards, I am alivays, 
Sincerely yours, 

Ella M. Kivington. 
May 22, 19—. 

FORMAL HOUSE PARTIES 

Strictly speaking, a house party consists of 
from four to twenty guests gathered in a coun- 
try seat, for any length of time from three days 
to a fortnight. The limits of the visit should 
be defined exactly in the invitations. When 
the party is assembled, the time is devoted to 
the enjoyment of a round of the best-planned 
and most varied entertainments that the hostess 
can provide. According to the English fashion, 
when a house party is given, the mistress of a 
commodious coimtry place invites by letter 
those friends whom from time to time during 
the holidays she wishes to gather under her 
roof. Models for such notes have been given 
above. In country houses, where a party of a 
dozen or more guests leaves only to make room 
foi' another party, convenience dictates that the 
hostess should keep an exact record of every 
invitation sent out, its answer, and the dates 
for which each guest is invited. Failure to 
keep memoranda of this sort is very apt to 



VISITING AND HOUSE PARTIES 215 

lead to erabarrassmg and impleasant confusion. 
These English methods of gathei'ing house par- 
ties have commended themselves to the best 
entertainers on this side by their pleasant out- 
come and orderly arrangement. 

ENTERTAINING VISITORS 

The regulations given in the preceding sec- 
tion apply, it should be carefully remembered, 
only to those hostesses who own large and lux- 
urious country seats, and who aim to give 
brilliant house parties. To the owner of the 
smaller country cottage, who may ask a few 
friends to stop over from Saturday to Monday, 
the following recommendations are addi'essed: 

First and foremost, plan carefully the enter- 
tainment of your visitors. A hostess knowing 
the resources at her command and the tastes of 
her expected guests should turn her mind 
towards providing suitable amusements. 
Horses, golfing, tennis, sailing, boating, danc- 
ing are obvious diversions to suggest, but some- 
times a spell of bad weather or other cause may 
prevent the guests from indulging in these 
amusements. At this juncture it is that the 
tact and hospitality of the hostess should most 
come into play. 

Generally speaking, it is well to get up no 
special enlertainments for the morning. If the 



216 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

party be at all large, breakfast will probably 
continue till nigh unto noon. Many women 
prefer to keep their rooms till luncheon, writing 
letters and so on; others, again, like to sit in a 
quiet spot on the veranda, reading a novel, 
chatting, or doing some fancy-work. Some- 
times, however, it happens that the morning is 
chosen for some expedition, and on such a day 
it is the afternoon on which the hostess may 
leave the guests pretty much to themselves. 

A dinner, followed by a dance, a card party, 
private theatricals, a fancy-dress ball, a casino 
dance, a picnic, or a moonlight drive are some 
of the expedients for filling the evenings, which, 
even in a modest house party, must not be left 
entirely empty for regrets and yawning and 
boredom to creep in. 

Still further can the hostess confer benefits 
on her guests, by refraining from forcing any 
of them into any plans or expedition to which 
they do not show signs of taking a fancy. When 
her opinions are opposed to those of a visitor, 
she should tactfully refrain from raising a dis- 
cussion on the matters on which they disagree; 
so, too, she should cleverly turn the conversa- 
tion when any of her guests fall into too heated 
discussions. Many good-natured hostesses 
have a dread of leaving their visitors at any 
time to themselves, lest they should become 



VISITING AND HOUSE PARTIES 2J7 



borecl. But really, a guest should be allowed 
somewhat the same liberty with his time as he 
would take in his own house. To invite a 
do?en persons to one's home and leave them en- 
tirely to their own devices is indeed brutal ; but 
the contrary error of over-entertaining should 
be likewise avoided. Many a matron dislikes 
to have her napping hour broken into to see 
a tennis tournament, and to wrest a contented 
man from his book and cigar for fear lest time 
be dull to him, or to break in on an agreeable 
tete-a-tete, is not less reprehensible. 

THE GUEST-CHAMBER 

The careful hostess will devote no less time 
to her guests' physical welfare than to their 
diversions. Hospitality is not at its best when 
it asks a guest to endure discomforts which he 
would not think of encountering in his own 
home. Thus, to request two fastidious persons 
to share the same bed, or to crowd in a guest 
with a child to make room for others, is not the 
proper thing for a thoughtful hostess to do or 
allow. 

Most modern country houses have a very 
large number of guest-rooms, for it is really 
as bad form to ask two women who barely know 
each other to occupy the same chamber as it 
would be to give them but one plate at table. 



2J8 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

A well-appointed country seat has small rooms 
for the single guests ; and where a mother and 
daughter, or a husband and wife, are asked to 
share one chamber, two single beds are invari- 
ably provided. Ample closet room should be 
placed at the disposal of each guest; a bath is 
frequently attached to each sleeping-room, but 
it is not incorrect to ask the occupants of two 
rooms to share one bathroom. 

In a house possessing but two guest cham- 
bei's, one should be made a single, the other a 
double sleeping-room; and in the latter there 
should be two beds. Rooms near the bath, and 
distant from the nursery and working portions 
of the house, should always be preferred as 
guest-chambers. No one is grateful for a rude 
awakening by the cries of early aroused chil- 
dren, the noise of servants, or the clatter of 
coal. 

A guest-chamber should be always a model 
of neatness, cheerfulness, and comfort. A 
fresh, brightly-flowered paper, Japanese mat- 
ting and a few rugs, white musliu curtains, 
chintz-upholstered furniture, and an inviting 
bed are the most important fittings in such an 
apartment. Since no two guests have the same 
tastes, these should be carefully discriminated. 
One visitor will like the sun streaming in at 
every window; another will want the morning 



VISITING AND HOUSE PARTIES 219 



light always excluded. If the hostess finds the 
outside or inside shutters of her guest-room do 
not work easily, she will hang dark green or 
blue Holland shades at every window, which 
can be rolled up in daytime and then drawn at 
night. In the closet always place an extra 
blanket; a table, with lamp and matches, should 
be by the bedside, unless an electric switch is 
in reach; the bells should be in good order; 
pens, ink, stationery, and a calendar should be 
about, and a schedule in sight of the postal de- 
liveries and collections. A neat little " house- 
wife ' ' holding needles, thread, scissors, and the 
like may be placed in the dressing-table 
drawer ; the table itself should be placed where 
the light will fall on it ; and, if the guest be a 
man, care should be taken to supply a shaving 
stand in a properly illuminated portion of the 
room. That new soap should be on the stand, 
the drawers immaculately clean, and fresh 
towels on the rack hardly requires mention. In 
England these matters are all looked after by a 
housekeeper; but here, where this custom has 
not been perfected, it is better for the hostess 
herself to attend to these matters and not trust 
to the thoughtfulness of a maid. 



220 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

WELCOMING VISITORS 

If tlie guest is an unmarried woman, the host 
or hostess should be at the dock or railroad 
station to meet and greet her, especially if it be 
her first visit. Bachelors and married couples 
are supposed to be better able to take care of 
themselves, and for them it is sufficient to send a 
quick-witted man-servant to attend their wants. 

The hostess, in either case, should always pro- 
vide proper transportation from the station to 
the house, not only for the visitor, but for his 
baggage. She should meet the guest imme- 
diately on arrival, preferably at the door. In 
a house where hospitality has become a fine 
art, the hostess will accompany her friend to the 
guest-chamber, while a maid may bring a tempt- 
ing biscuit and a glass of wine ; a bath may then 
be drawn for the guest, to rid herself of the 
dust of the journey. The maid should mean- 
while open the bags and boxes, lay the contents 
on the dressing-table, and in drawers and 
closets, and carry off the travel-stained apparel 
to be cleaned. 

Should the new arrival be a bachelor, the 
hostess should be no less prompt in greeting 
him, and, if no man in the family is at home 
to conduct him to his room, a maid- or man-ser- 
vant can attend to this office. 



VISITING AND HOUSE PARTIES 221 



THE hostess' servants 

In very fashionable society a hostess may ex- 
pect that her guests should arrive with maids 
and valets, and for such attendants she is 
obliged to provide, but this is hardly the gen- 
eral custom in America, where only the very 
rich bring their attendants with them. 

If the maid be not sufficiently well drilled to 
look after the unpacking of the trunks, she may 
still be instructed to unlock, unstrap, and open 
the boxes, and take out the heavy trays. Should 
the guest-room be small, all trunks and bags 
should be removed as soon as emptied. 

Each morning the maid will knock at the 
guest's door, enquire when and at what heat the 
bath shoi;ld be drawn, and set the fire going 
if it be chill; to the masculine visitor she will 
bring his cleaned and polished boots and hot 
shaving water, if his room have not a stationary 
washstand. When, in the afternoon, the guests 
retire to dress for dinner, a maid should tap at 
the women's doors, and ask if any assistance be 
needed; she should then aid in adjusting the 
gowns, bring hot water when required, and, 
when the rooms are vacated, turn down the beds 
for the night, replenish the stand with towels 
and water, and carry out the apparel or shoes 
showing signs of dust, to be cleaned and brought 



222 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



back the uext morning. A jug of ice-water 
and a glass should be later placed beside the 
bed; the matchbox, reading-lamp, and other de- 
tails should also be examined to see if they are 
in proper order. All these things arc essen- 
tials, and should obtain from the smallest Sat- 
urday to Monday gathering to the luxurious 
large party. 

Should illness overtake a guest, the hostess 
should doiable her attentions, and give \ip as 
much as possible of her time to cheering and 
nursing the unfortunate. She may offer to 
write any letters, send telegrams, call in a 
physician, and provide medicine, special diet, 
or the like that may be required. Debts con- 
tracted by the guest under these circumstances 
should not be paid by the hostess; should a 
guest be so small-minded as to leave matters of 
this sort unsatisfied, it is usually best, how- 
ever, to quietly settle them and then drop the 
ungracious guest from one's invitation list. 

TAKING LEAVE 

Eegret at parting may be expressed to a 
guest in some such form as, " It has been 
charming to have had you with us. Miss 
Black"; or, "Your visit has given us the 
greatest pleasure, Mrs. Brown; we shall miss 
you much, and hope you may be persuaded to 



VISITING AND HOUSE PARTIES 223 



come again"; or, " Good-bye, Mr. Jones. I 
have enjoyed seeing you ever so much." 

It should be the endeavor of a hostess to save 
a visitor, especially a woman, from the discom- 
fort of leaving at a too early hour. If an early 
train or boat must be taken, the hostess should 
be up betimes, and see that a pleasant break- 
fast is served; she should then take leave of 
her friend at the door, in case she does not bear 
her company to the station. A visitor is al- 
ways conducted to the train or boat at the host- 
ess' expense. When the guest is elderly, 
whether man or woman, the host and hostess 
should both, if possible, take part in the leave- 
takings. The tickets may be procured before- 
hand for a young unmarried woman, her lug- 
gage checked, and she herself handed safely 
aboard the train. A bachelor who decides to 
leave in the morning may be bid farewell the 
preceding evening, a comfortable breakfast 
having been ordered for him by his hostess; 
her son or husband may then give him a final 
farewell in the morning. If the servants be 
well-trained, the services of one should be of- 
fered a g-uest in packing the baggage or in lock- 
ing up the boxes when packed. 



tii THE MODERN HOSTESS 

DKESS WHILE VISITING 

For a few days' stay the problem of dress 
hardly arises, as a rule, but for longer periods 
it requires careful consideration by the intended 
guest. 

For a week's stay in summer, at a gay coun- 
try seat, a young woman needs at least three 
hats — a walking hat, one for golfing or boating, 
and a third of more delicate build, for lawn 
parties, teas, etc. A golf dress, white pique 
skirts, pretty shirtwaists, and Oxford ties will 
equip her for the morning. For the afternoon 
she may have a pretty, light-toned voile or 
foulard and a high-necked muslin or two. A 
decollete gown of white organdie or pale, tinted 
silk will answer well for the evening. A little 
wardrobe of this sort may be packed in a 
steamer trunk. It is only when on a visit to 
very splendid houses, where a large round of 
gay entertainments is expected, that a bigger 
trunk need be taken. An older woman will 
make several changes in this list, but she will 
need no more clothes. 

To the ordinary house party, a man under 
sixty carries a sack suit for the morning, col- 
ored shirts, a complete set of evening clothes, 
duck trousers, a straw hat and a cap for out- 
ings, and several Oxfords. 



VISITING AND H OUSE PARTIES 225 

THE guest's duties 

To make a pleasant visitor, each guest should 
essay to conform himself to the customs of the 
household. When a choice of entertainments 
is offered, he should be willing to fall in with 
that one which he sees his hostess prefers. The 
dullest outing or the most unsuccessful dance 
should be entered into with zest. 

It is clearly a guest's duty to be courteous to 
the other visitors, to forbear from excited argu- 
ment, and to refrain from any liberties. The 
host's carriage should not be used without his 
invitation, his books should not be scattered 
about the house, nor the chairs shifted from 
one room to another. One's room should be 
kept in order and neat-appearing. To the 
habits of the household concerning the times 
for meals the visitor should cheerfully defer. 
If early breakfasts are customary, it is bad taste 
to keep one's hostess waiting for the comple- 
tion of a slow toilet. 



Nowadays it is a fixed custom to tip the ser- 
vants on departing from a private house, unless 
the mistress distinctly requests that this be not 
done. Usually, the guest is left to do as he 
chooses about the matter. To tip over-lavishly 



226 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

is not commendable, and yet many err iu this 
direction from lack of clear knowledge at where 
to draw the line. 

A single woman should tip the maid who 
keeps her room in order one dollar, if the visit 
has been for a week and no special favors have 
been asked. If, however, the maid has brushed 
the gowns, prepared the bath, and assisted in 
the evening toilet, then a dollar and a half is 
expected. Aside from the maids a woman has 
but few demands on her purse, except possibly 
from the coachman, and for him fifty cents or 
a dollar is sufficient. 

A bachelor should give at least a dollar to 
the maid who keeps his room in order, not less 
than fifty cents to the boy who polishes his 
boots, and a dollar to the coachman if the latter 
has performed any special services. If a valet 
has brushed, pressed, and laid out clothes, 
drawn baths, and so on for the ^^sito^, at least 
a dollar and a half must be given; and if the 
guest has used a riding horse, and been fre- 
quently driven about the country, the coaclmian 
will expect a dollar and a half and the stable- 
boy a half-dollar. 

Married couples usually di\'ide the tipping. 
The wife fees the maids, the husband the men- 
servants. A dollar and a half should be given 
the maid, and two dollars if she has done sjie- 



VISITING AND HOUSE PARTIES 227 

cial work. The butler would get two dollars, if 
he acted as valet, and sometimes as high as five 
when he has attended to special matters. As a 
rule, a married man is supposed to send the 
cook a dollar, and many bachelors do the same. 
The coachman always expects the fee of a 
dollar. Fifty cents to the laundress is also 
customary if her time has been used for any- 
thing unusual. 

When a man or woman is a frequent guest at 
a house, a tip at every stay is not necessary, but 
all the servants should be remembered once or 
twice a season. 

The above rules are not laid down for those 
men who persist in tipping from five dollars up 
for a stay of a day. Such are a law unto them- 
selves, and establish no precedent for those with 
smaller incomes. 

TAKING LEAVE 

To express appreciation of the hospitality 
which he has enjoyed, a guest, in taking leave, 
may say, " You can hardly realize how much 
I liave enjoyed my visit, Mrs. Blank "; or, " I 
am deeply indebted to you, Mrs. Blank, for a 
delightful fortnight"; or, "This has been a 
most agreeable experience ; I can scarcely real- 
ize that it is over and that I must say good- 
bye." 



228 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

In taking leave, it is polite to bid adieu to 
each member of the family, asking to have mes- 
sages of farewell given to those absent. 

Promptly after a visit a short note should be 
sent to the hostess, informing her of the guest's 
safe arrival, and conveying anew the pleasure 
her entertainment has afforded. For stays of 
a day or two a letter of this sort is unnecessary. 
The following are proper forms : 

Woodville, 
July 30, 19 — . 
My Deab Mrs. Eichardson : 

I arrived home yesterday evening after a 
quick and pleasant journey. I am still full of 
memories of my delightfid stay at the manor. 
Please give the baby my love and relieve Mr. 
Richardson about my baggage. It turned up 
at the home station safely. With many thanks 
to him and best regards to yourself, believe me, 
Ever sincerely, 

Anna Northbup Jamison. 

Or, 

76 Norton Place, 
September 6, 19 — . 
My Dear Mrs. Elverson : 

My journey homeivards ivas an enjoyable one 
and spent mostly in thinking on the more than 
pleasant time I had at " Briarnook," 



VISITING AND HOUSE PARTIES 229 

I have ventured to send you a copy of one of 
Kipling's to-day, luhich has just appeared on 
the bookstalls. I knoiv from your fondness for 
that writer that you will enjoy it. 

With best regards to Mr. and to Miss Elver- 
son, believe me, 

Faithfidly yours, 

Ralph N. Preston. 

A small gift to one's hostess is not amiss, 
when in the nature simply of a souvenir, but 
nothing savoi'ing of a payment should ever be 
sent. A book, a pretty piece of embroidery, a 
pack of cards in a silver case, or a piece of 
music for which a wish has been expressed, are 
all allowable as gifts, and cannot be misunder- 
stood. However, this opportunity for gift- 
making is not regarded as an obligation, and is 
left to each one individually to take advantage 
of, or not, as he chooses. 



WEDDINGS 

No other incident in the whole length of the 
average human life is so fraught with vast po- 
tentialities for good or evil, for exquisite hap- 
piness or unqualified misery, as the event which 
makes a man the husband of a woman and the 
woman the wife of a man. 

The moment two young people have made the 
mutual confession that their supreme happiness 
is wrapped up in each other, they are within 
measurable distance of the great crisis of their 
lives. 

ENGAGED TO BE MARRIED 

Possibly there is no country in the world 
where young people enjoy the same freedom of 
action and liberty of conduct as in America. 
Compared with the mediaeval customs of Spain, 
the cautious — and, to American minds, the sus- 
picious — methods of the French, American girls 
enjoy supreme liberty. Doubtless this is due to 
the exalted position woman holds in American 
social life, a supremacy which, according to the 
French writer, Varigny, dates from the time 
when the New England colonies first conceded 

230 



WEDDINGS 23J 



the right of a woman to dispose of her own 
hand in marriage. The cynic may say that in 
those days the scarcity of women was re- 
sponsible for this gift of independence, and that 
because of her very scarcity she could command 
her own price. But to the man of to day such 
an argument cannot carry much weight, seeing 
that the twentieth-century woman has retained 
all her old prerogatives, not to speak of many 
more that she has wrung from the evolution of 
time, and which the early colonists would un- 
doubtedly have regarded as the most rabid form 
of anarchy. However, it is our business to 
speak of conditions as they are, and as some 
form and period of engagement must invariably 
precede the hastiest of marriages, it will be 
well to discuss the etiquette of the engagement 
at some little length before going on to the gen- 
eral subject of weddings. 

Throughout Continental p]urope it would be 
impossible for young people of opposite sexes 
to see each other as freely and as frequently as 
in our own country; consequently, the general 
rule in these countries is for the man to ask the 
permission of the parents before offering his 
attentions to the daughter. In America a 
man's permission to win the woman he loves is, 
as a rule, taken for granted. In England the 
rule varies, according to the social status of the 



232 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

lovers. It is a point of etiquette for which no 
definite rule can be laid down; for, if it is true 
that " Love laughs at locksmiths," it is surely 
true that the winged god has little respect for 
this particular social convention. It is certain, 
however, that the intimacy between parents 
and children which distinguishes American 
family life is the very best safeguard possible 
for the average American girl, for in our open 
way of living and entertaining it is scarcely 
possible for a daughter to receive the attentions 
of a man without the fact being immediately 
known to the parents. In the case of deception 
no rule or system holds good; for where such a 
course is resorted to, parents have only the 
protection of their own suspicions and the girl's 
sense of loyalty to their authority. If the 
young man is wise, he will make it a point to 
interview the loved one 's parents the moment 
he has the girl's permission, making a full and 
free statement of his present condition, stand- 
ing in society, business prospects, and re- 
sources. This is not only a wise course, but 
it is the only one an honorable man can pursue. 
Should his plea be refused, patience and honor- 
able conduct usually overcome the most obsti- 
nate parent. 

Social conventions require that the announce- 
ment of an engagement shall come from the 



WEDDINGS 



2^ 



young woman. This announcement may be 
published publicly, sent by note to those rela- 
tives and friends who should receive early in- 
formation of the event, or announced verbally. 
A good way, and the one most frequently em- 
ployed, is for the young lady to write to her 
intimate friends, informing them that her en- 
gagement will be announced on a certain near 
day; this enables them to call, or send congrat- 
ulatory messages. These messages may very 
properly be accompanied by flowers. Next to the 
impropriety of keeping an engagement secret 
from a girl's parents, or, for that matter, the 
parents on either side, is to forget or omit the 
formal announcing of the engagement. In this 
connection it will be well to point out that it is 
not at all the correct thing to ask near relatives 
or intimate friends of persons, whom report 
asserts to be engaged, whether such reports be 
true. Equally vulgar would it be for any one 
not an intimate friend or relative to ask any 
member of the two families whether they are 
pleased with the engagement. The afternoons 
the young lady has selected to be at home are 
expected to be used by the majority of the en- 
gaged young people's acquaintances to call on 
her. The prospective bridegroom's relatives 
and friends should also take this opportunity 
of making her acquaintance. 



234 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



REFRESHMENTS 

On these occasions it is usual to offer the 
callers tea, together with sandwiches and cakes, 
so that, altogether, the occasion is marked by 
a very charming cordiality. The family of the 
future husband should especially be affection- 
ate and cordial in their reception of their son's 
fiancee. Of late there has sprung up a fashion 
for intimate friends to send to a girl, upon re- 
ceiving news of her engagement, presents of 
teacups. The reason for this is somewhat 
vague, but as it is a tradition common to all 
parts of the world that the teacup is the main 
consolation of spinsterhood, the custom may 
have a humorous meaning. 

CONGRATULATIONS 

Only the man is congratulated; to the woman 
one wishes every degree of happiness. In the 
language of another writer, " the word ' felici- 
tation,' in its French sense, best covers the 
ground." A relic of barbarism survives in the 
distinction thus made between the man and the 
woman. The man is congratulated because of 
his success in the pursuit and " capture " of 
the woman. The interval between the betrothal 
and the marriage ceremony is a period crowded 
with joy and excitement. Friends hasten to ex- 



WEDDINGS 235 

tend invitations for dinners, theatre parties, 
and many other forms of festivity. The two 
families in particular are most careful to ex- 
change hospitalities— the young man's family 
at all times taking the initiative. 

ACCEPTING CONGRATULATIONS 

In the present stage of development of human 
nature it is to be expected that discussion and 
criticism will be very much to the fore. ' ' Does 
she seem happy? " or, " Is he much in love? " 
one hears eagerly asked. Or, perhaps, on the 
other hand, the friends of both will question 
the wisdom of the step for business or family 
reasons. In any event, to all people, friend 
and foe alike, some degree of speculation and 
comment will be natural. Much annoyance 
and sometimes keen suffering may be saved by 
bearing these facts in mind. The young people 
must remember that once their engagement is 
public property, their behavior to each other, 
as well as to others, will be subject to a scrutiny 
never before experienced, so that they should 
at all times be on their guard. Nothing could 
be in worse taste than to see a girl making a 
public exhibition of her bliss, or to hear a man, 
when congratulated, trying to hide his embar- 
rassment behind a foolish facetiousness that, at 
best, only makes him ridiculous. A good. 



i^ THE MODERN HOSTESS 

honest handclasp, or a warm, sincere " Thank 
you! " will suffice for an aclniowledginent. 

The engaged couple will be seen frequently 
together in public, but they should be careful 
not to make themselves conspicuous. It is 
taken for granted that they do not care for 
gayety or enjojTuent apart from each other, 
and also that they love each other devotedly, 
consequently they will not be misunderstood if 
their public behavior should resemble that of 
any other average man and woman under simi- 
lar circumstances. 

" HAPPY THE WOOING THAt's NOT LONG A-DOING " 

This is an old saw frequently quoted by those 
who advocate short engagements; but the gen- 
eral question, as to whether the engagement 
should be long or short, is one which involves 
much difference of opinion. As a matter of 
fact, the question is too serious for Fashion to 
have any say in the matter. Ordinarily the 
period of engagement is limited by financial 
considerations; a period of test or probation; 
or to gain sufficient time for the preparation 
of the home. A moderate period of time is the 
better course, but where a long engagement is 
necessary (if the young people are not suffi- 
ciently sure of each other, or if financial or 
other difficulties stand in the way) it would be 



WEDDINGS 237 



foolish to marry before all obstructions have 
been overcome. According to statistics, the 
modern trend, in circles where financial consid- 
erations do not obtain, is to a comparatively 
short engagement, while the opposite is the 
case among the classes not so well endowed with 
this world's goods. If a long engagement 
should serve to discover faults in the character 
or temperament of either party to the contract, 
the time has not been wasted, for it still re- 
mains true that to marry in haste frequently 
means to repent at leisure. If spent rightly, 
the period of waiting will serve to develop a 
keener sense of responsibility on the part of 
the man, developing his best qualities because 
of the necessary self-denial in working and 
planning for the new home, while the girl has 
an opportunity to take a practical interest in 
the art of housekeeping and domestic economy 
which, in the vast majority of cases, has not 
been a distinguishing feature of the earlier part 
of her life. No matter how lofty a station she 
may occupy, or how big her establishment, a 
knowledge of the duties and responsibilities of 
the mistress of a household will be an absolute 
necessity to any woman who has the desire to 
be the wife of her husband and the mistress of 
a home, rather than the head of an establish- 
ment. It is well to remember, however, that 



238 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

the question of long or short engagements has 
a bearing on others besides the young people 
themselves. The man in particular should re- 
member that the unpopularity of the son-in- 
law with his wife's family, more frequently 
than not, has its origin in the long engagement 
that precedes his marriage, and when it is re- 
membered how easy it is for the absorbed lovers 
to forget the girl's parents and family, there 
is little wonder that the relations between son- 
in-law and parents-in-law are occasionally not 
all that could be desired. The man should re- 
member that until his fiancee becomes his wife, 
the rights of her family take precedence of his 
own, and if he will bear this fact in mind and 
show his recognition of it by curtailing in a 
measure the length and frequency of his visits, 
he will make much better progress in the esti- 
mation of his future wife's family. 

THE ENGAGEMENT RING 

The ring is presented as soon as possible 
after the girl's consent is won, but it is not pub- 
licly worn until the engagement is announced. 
The style and value of the ring will, of course, 
largely depend upon the taste and means of 
the giver. It would scarcely be right to say 
that Fashion dictates any particular pattern, 
but the practice of presenting a solitaire dia- 



WEDDINGS 23^ 



mond, or a diamond in combination witli an- 
other gem, has become the custom, and conse- 
quently, in that regard at least, the fashion. A 
charming idea is the placing an inscription 
within the circlet, a practice which adds much to 
the sentimental value of the ring. Nothing could 
be in worse taste than for a young man to pre- 
sent his fiancee with a ring the value of which 
is plainly out of all proportion with the known 
condition of his financial standing. It does not 
by any means prove the depth of his devotion 
any more than if it had been but one-tenth the 
value. It does, however, betray a lack of bal- 
ance and a trace of vulgar ostentation which, 
in the minds of older men and women of the 
world, will inspire a doubt as to the stability 
and future success of the young man. In a way 
also it is certainly to be presumed that the 
woman has enough influence over her lover to 
prevent him from making so foolish a mistake. 

DEMEANOR 

At quaint Long Meadow, in Massachusetts, 
there is still preserved a " courting stick," 
through which, in the early days of our coun- 
try, young persons could whisper their tender 
nonsense to each other unheeded by the rest of 
the people in the room. These courting sticks 
were hollow tubes about eight feet long, and 



240 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

were considered a very practical necessity in 
many of our " best families." Eight feet 
would certainly be considered a whole continent 
in these twentieth-century days, but the illus- 
tration will serve to show the reserve, and, in 
a measure, the secrecy which society then de- 
manded of engaged people. Practically the 
whole burden of responsibility at this time 
rests with 

THE FIANCEE, 

for whom custom has decreed strict rules of 
conduct. As with all the other social conven- 
tions, there is considerably more liberty at 
present than there was twenty-five or fifty 
years ago, but even now it is not according to 
the strictest rules of conduct for a young lady 
to attend theatres, parties, or concerts alone 
with her fiance or to be seen driving with him 
in the evening, or on unfrequented roads. On 
the other hand, she is permitted to indulge 
in some of these pleasures, such as walking 
or driving occasionally, the only stipulation 
being that it should be in public and in an un- 
ostentatious manner. Fifty years ago the 
bride-elect was practically a social prisoner, 
allowed out only after nightfall, but although, 
as already stated, public opinion is no longer 
so radically straightlaced, well-bred men and 



WEDDINGS 24V 



women will still be careful not to permit them- 
selves to go to the opposite extreme.- 

A point that an engaged girl should always 
keep in mind is, that it is not wise to accept 
any presents from her lover that cannot be re- 
turned uninjured should the engagement be 
broken. Of course this does not apply to such 
trivialities as flowers and bonbons. In the 
period between the betrothal and the wedding- 
day the careful bride-to-be will scrupulously 
adhere to the conventions regarding chaperon- 
age. At this point it will not be amiss to say 
a word for the parents of the girl. In certain 
respects they should be her first consideration, 
for upon them will fall the more or less heavy 
expense of the wedding, not to speak of the en- 
gagement period. The loving daughter will be 
as moderate as possible in her demands upon 
the paternal purse. The average American 
girl has much to learn from the careful, provi- 
dent, but altogether charming German Friiu- 
lein. 

The greatest ambition of the bride-to-be 
should be to come to the altar looking her pret- 
tiest, a result which will be impossible if she 
overtaxes her strength in preparing her trous- 
seau, indulging in wearing shopping expedi- 
tions, or nerve-racking visits to the dressmaker 
and milliner. 



242 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

The selectiou of the wedding date resta with 
the bride. 

WEDDING PEELIMINARIES 

Once the wedding day has been named, im- 
portant consultations between the two families 
will take place to settle the matter of invita- 
tions. Careful lists of the friends and acquaint- 
ances of both families will be made and the in- 
vitations ordered from the engraver at least 
three weeks or a month in advance of the time 
they are wanted for sending out. 

All the expenses of the wedding are assumed 
by the bride's family, including cards of invita- 
tion, floral decorations at house or church, or 
both, carriages for the bridal party and invited 
guests, music, and, in fact, every other expense 
incidental to the wedding, except the payment 
of the clergyman's fee, which is the bride- 
groom's privilege. Very frequently he also 
pays the organist and the sexton, but this is 
not required by conventional etiquette. 

In the matter of invitations, a very charming 
practice, and one becoming increasingly pop- 
ular, is for the bride-elect, with a number of her 
intimate friends gathered together for the pur- 
pose, to direct the invitations personally instead 
of leaving the task to tlie engraver or other 
agent. 



VEDDINGS 243 



INVITATIONS 

Wedding invitations may be sent out at any 
time, from within four weeks to fifteen days of 
the date set for the marriage. They are issued 
in the name of the bride's father and mother, 
and, formerly, the cards of the bride- and 
groom-elect were enclosed, but this is a custom 
now rarely followed. 

The number of relations and friends invited 
will depend entirely upon circumstances that 
need not be mentioned here; sufficient to say 
that among the deciding factors will be the room 
at the disposal of the parents. For instance, 
where the wedding or wedding reception is at 
the house, it will surely be impossible to invite 
all one's acquaintances, and while this is to be 
regretted, yet it would be the worst of bad taste 
for friends to take offence because they were 
not invited; naturally, r^jlatives and intimate 
friends must receive the first consideration. If 
the ceremony is to be held in church, invita- 
tions may be sent to all those whose names are 
on the visiting lists of the families of the brides 
and bridegroom, and to such relatives and 
friends as may be in mourning, travelling 
abroad, or prevented from attending by some 
other important reason. It is a good point, and 
one generally followed, to send invitations to 



244 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



the business associates of the bridegroom and 
the bride 's father, and also to offer a few extra 
invitations to the bridesmaids and ushers, who 
will thus be enabled to ask any of their friends 
or relatives who may wish to witness the cere- 
mony. 

Invitations should be engraved on the finest 
of pure white or cream-tinted paper, having an 
unglazed, smooth surface. Ordinarily, the 
conventional size of the sheet of paper used 
measures 7i/o by 614 in width, which measure- 
ment will enable it to be folded once to fit its 
envelope. Plain script still retains its old-time 
ascendancy, varied only by an occasional pref- 
erence for the Old English type or the heavy 
blackletter. 

Included with the order to the stationer or 
engraver for invitations is one for the en- 
velopes containing the engraved sheets, and 
larger and less expensive ones for the outer 
covering. As with ball invitations, the first 
envelope is inside and inscribed only with the 
name of the guest for whom it is meant, while 
the outer envelope of course carries the full ad- 
dress of its intended recipient. It is bad taste 
to make a single invitation sen^e for an entire 
family by addressing it to " Mr. and Mrs. So- 
and-So and family." An invitation should be 
sent to each individual, although custom per- 



WEDDINGS 



24^ 



mits the slight economy of addressing one to 
" Mr. and Mrs. So-and-So," another to the 
"Misses So-and-So," and a third to the 
" Messrs. So-and-So." If there is to be a re- 
ception after the church wedding, it is cus- 
tomary to enclose cards for the reception in 
the same envelope with those for the church. 
Should the invitation include a regular wed- 
ding breakfast, or, in fact, only refer to a small 
house wedding, it is obligatory for the recipi- 
ents to answer the invitation. Friends and ac- 
quaintances living at too great a distance, or 
who for any other reason are unable to attend 
the wedding, are expected to enclose their cards 
to the bride's father and mother, timing them 
so that they will arrive on the wedding-day. 
At the same time it would be improper to send 
answers to invitations to a church wedding or 
a large wedding reception where no answer has 
been requested, or to send an answer to an in- 
vitation to the bride or bridegroom's family 
when one does not happen to know the persons 
in whose name the invitation was sent. 

With regard to the form of the invitation, it 
is almost invariably found that the stationer 
has a sample book containing copies of invita- 
tions in current use, but where this is not the 
case the following examples will be found to 
cover the entire subject. 



2M> THE MODERN HOSTESS 

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Broun 

request the honour of your presence 

at the marriage of their daughter 

Alice 

to 

Mr. Walter Freere 

on Tuesday afternoon, November first, 

nt four o'clock, 

St. Chri/sostom's Church, 

Richmond, Virginia. 

If the bride 's family prefer to word their in- 
vitations correctly, rather than fashionably, 
they will substitute the word and, or u-ith, in- 
stead of to. Another device which is greatly 
to be commended, not only because it gives an 
additional touch of elegance, but because of the 
greater courtesy which it conveys, is to write 
the name of the person invited instead of 
having it engraved. Of course this involves 
more labor, but it is assuredlv a far better wav. 



WEDDINGS 2i7 

This would necessitate the following arrange- 
ment: 

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Brown 

request the honour of 

presence at the marriage of their daughter 

Alice 

and 

Mr. Walter Freere 

on Tuesday afternoon, November first, 

at four o'clock, 

St. Chrysostom's Church, 

Richmond, Virginia. 

Should the bride be an orphan, her invitations 
are, of course, issued in the name of her near- 
est surviving relative ; if she has an older sister 
whose years warrant the procedure, the invita- 
tions should be issued in the sister's name. 
Sometimes it happens that they must be issued 
in the name of a brother who may or may not 
be married, in which case the phraseology 



248 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

would be: ** Mr. Harold Brown requests the 
honour of your presence at the marriage of 
his sister Alice." 

The married sister of the bride would use the 
following form: " Mr. and Mrs. Thomas H. 
Wright request the pleasure of your company 
at the marriage of Mrs. Wright's sister, Miss 
Alice Brown," etc. Grandparents, or any 
other relatives of the bride-elect, would also 
specify their exact degree of relationship to the 
bride. Unfortunately, it frequently happens 
that relatives either do not exist or are not 
available, and the wedding takes place at the 
house of a friend, in which case the invitations 
would read as follows: 

The pleasure of your company is requested 

at the marriage of 

Mrs. Lucy Thompson 

to (or " with ") 

Mr. Frederick Hardin 

on Wednesday, November third, 

at half -past three o'clock, 

at the residence of 

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Campbell, 

Sixteen Main Street. 



WEDDINGS 24* 



Should tlie bride be a half-orphan and the 
remaining parent have remarried, her invita- 
tions are issued in the name of her own parent 
and her step-parent, the phraseology clearly 
defining whose child she is, unless she, through 
her affection for her step-parent, prefers not to 
have this distinction inserted. 

The wedding cards of a stepdaughter would 
take this form: " Mr. and Mrs. Edward B. 
Hilton request the pleasure of your company 
at the marriage of Mrs. Hilton's daughter, 
Florence Potter " ; or, should she be the daugh- 
ter of the husband: " Mr. and Mrs. Edward B. 
Hilton ... at the marriage of Mr. Hilton's 
daughter, Florence." 

If the father is a widower, it goes without 
saying that the cards will be issued in his name 
alone. 

This formula is engraved on the first page 
of a double sheet, and under no circumstances 
must occupy more than one page. Modern 
usage demands that the words ' ' honour of your 
presence " be employed whenever the invita- 
tion is for a church wedding. Where the con- 
tracting parties are of such social prominence 
that it is more than probable inquisitive 
strangers will obtrude their presence, to the 
entire upsetting of the most careful arrange- 
ments, it will be found absolutely necessary to 



250 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

guard against the imposition by enclosing with 
every invitation a card of admission. These 
cards are slips of white cardboard measuring 
about 41/4 by 21/0 inches, and inscribed : 

Please present this card at 

St. Thomas's Church, 

on Thursday, October fifth. 

When a church wedding is followed by a re- 
ception or breakfast, the bride's people would 
enclose with the wedding invitation an engraved 
card, reading: 

Mr. and Mrs. William Fenton 

request the pleasure of 



company 

on Monday, October first, 

at half -past tiielrc o'clock. 

Fifteen Pleasant Avenue. 

JR. s. r. p. 



WEDDINGS 25t 

This card would be of medium size, a point 
usually determined by the stationer. A briefer 
form would be the following : 

Reception 

from half -past three o'clock. 

Fifteen Pleasant Avenue. 

R. S. V. P. 

Possibly the most sensible as well as the 
most charming form for an invitation to a mid- 
day wedding which is to be followed by a break- 
fast at the bride's home is that which follows 
the English model. It is engraved on a double 
sheet, and at the bottom of the page, in small 
lettering, the following words are to be found : 
" And afterwards at breakfast," followed by 
the address of the bride's parents. 

If the wedding is at home the invitations are 
the same as for a church ceremony, except that 
the phrase "pleasure of your company" is 
used instead of " honour of your presence." If 
the wedding ceremony is to be witnessed only 
by the immediate families, but followed by a 
large reception, the invitations will be worded 
as follows : 



252 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

Mr. and Mrs. Frank H. Mott 

request the pleasure of your company 

at the ivedding reception of their daughter 

Madeline 

and 

Mr. John Henry Herrick, 

on Monday afternoon, October fourth, 

at four o'clock. 

Two Htindred La Salle Avenue. 

In the case of special friends or relatives 
whose presence is desired at the marriage cere- 
mony, small cards will be enclosed, upon which 
is engraved, " Ceremony at half after three 
o'clock." It may happen that the wedding is to 
take place in a country neighborhood, or some 
other locality some little distance away from 
the town or city from which the majority of the 
guests are expected. "When such is the case, 
a schedule of trains, or other means of trans- 
port, either provided especially for the guests 
or which they will find to be most convenient 
for their purpose, will be specified as follows : 



VEDDINGS 253 



Train leaves Broad Street Station 
for Rosedale at 3.10 p. m. 

Returning train leaves Rosedale 
for New York at 6.15 p. m. 

Occasionally tlie bride's parents can afford 
to place a special train at the service of their 
out-of-town guests, in which case a card is en- 
closed in the invitation which will serve as the 
guest's passport to a seat in the reserved 
coaches. It would read as follows : 

Special train leaves 

Broad Street Station for Rosedale 

at 3.10 p. m. 

Rosedale for Broad Street Station 

at 6.15 p. m. 

Please present this card at the station gate. 

Such elaborate preparation as the hiring of 
a special train entails the addition of the let- 
ters B. S. V. P., which will enable the host and 
hostess to know for how many persons they 
must provide. A growing custom among the 



254 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

ladies of the most exclusive Eastern society 
circles is to substitute the following English 
phrase — " The favor of a reply is requested " 
— instead of the time-honored French initials, 
R. S. V. P. 

There is little difference between the cards of 
invitation to a woman's second marriage and 
those employed for the first ceremony. They 
are issued in the name of her parents or other 
relatives. Her own Christian name or names 
must invariably be supplemented by the sur- 
name of her deceased husband, as : 

Mr. and Mrs. Le Roy Jones 

request the honour of your presence 

at the marriage of their daughter, 

Mrs. Eleanor Hall, 

with 

Mr. Joseph Parker, 

on Tuesday, December fourth, 

at twelve o'clock, 

at 

St. Joseph's Church, 

Beech Grove. 



tTEDDINGS 255 

Should the widow desire to dispense with 
relatives as hosts and sponsors, her cards 
would read : 

The honour of your presence is requested 

at the marriage of 

Mrs. Mary O'Donnell 

with 

Mr. John Harris Tivomy 

on Tuesday afternoon, June fourth, 

at five o'cloch. 

Church of the Ascension. 

If a public announcement of a marriage is 
not made until after marriage has taken place, 
announcement cards should be mailed to all 
relatives and friends of the bride and groom. 
If the marriage is only to be witnessed by a 
few persons, and no invitations are issued, it 
will be necessary for announcement cards to be 
sent, reading as follows — care being taken to 



256 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

see that they are posted on the day of the wed- 
ding: 

Mr. and Mrs. John Wells Dana 

have the honour of announcing 

the marriage of their daughter 

Gertrude 

ivith 

Mr. Henry Lewis Avery 

on Thursday, October second, 

1904, 

at St. Paul's Chapel. 

In such an instance the joint card of the newly 
married couple could very properly be enclosed 
with the announcement. This card should bear 
the address of the newly united couple, giving 
the bride's day at home, where necessary, as 
well. 

Another form of announcement which carries 
its own meaning is as follows : 



WEDDINGS 257 



Mr. Francis Ransom 

and 

Miss Lucy Davis 

have the honour of announcing 

their marriage 

on Saturday, November fourth, 

One thousand nine hundred and four. 

The First Congregational Church, 

Philadelphia. 

BECALLING INVITATIONS 

In the sad event of illness or any other acci- 
dent compelling the postponement of a wed- 
ding for which invitations have been issued in 
the ordinary way, the parents of the bride will 
promptly issue printed cards notifying those 
who have been invited of the change which cir- 
cumstances have necessitated. A form usually 
adopted is : 

Owing to the sudden illness of Mr. Stephen 
Hood's father, Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Hood 



258 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

hcg to recall the cards issued for their daugh- 
ter's uedding reception. 

It has already been stated that it is not neces- 
sary to return a written reply to wedding in- 
vitations unless such invitations include a 
breakfast or luncheon, or bear the letters R. S. 
V. P. Should it be impossible or inconvenient 
for a guest to accept an invitation, such fact 
should be politely stated in some such form as 
follows, sending the note, whenever possible, 
by messenger. This acknowledgment should be 
sent on the day of the marriage and should en- 
close two visiting cards addressed to the bride 's 
parents. 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Wainwrighi 

regret their inability to accept 

the kind invitation of 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Houston 

to the wedding reception of their daughter 

on Thursday afternoon, October fourth, 

at four o'clock. 



WEDDINGS 259 

Au acceptance wcmld be couched as follows : 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Waimvright 

accept with pleasure the kind invitation of 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Houston 

to the wedding reception of their daughter, 

on Thursdai/ (ifteruoon, October fourth, 

at four o'clock. 

WEDDING ANNIVERSARIES 

Suitable originality is both possible and per- 
missible in the design of an invitation to a wed- 
ding anniversary. Very frequently they are so 
designed as to disclose by their ornamentation 
the meaning of the occasion. Or, they may 
display the interwreathed initials of husband 
and wife, while in the upper left corner the 
year of the marriage is given and in the oppo- 
site right upper corner that of the anniversary 
which it is intended to celebrate. Frequently 
silver lettering is employed to indicate a silver 
wedding, etc. The following are conventional 
forms : 



260 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

1879 W. E. 1904 

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Peel 

at home 

Thursday evening, June fourth, 

after nine o'clock. 

Forty Lake Shore Drive. 
Or, 

. 1879 1904: 

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Peel 

request the pleasure of your company 

on the twenty-fifth 

anniversary of their marriage 

on Thursday afternoon, June fourth, 

from four until seven o'clock. 

Forty Lake Shore Drive. 

Cards or invitations to wedding anniversary- 
receptions do not demand a formal written ac- 
ceptance, unless one is requested. A sufficient 
acknowledgment of the receipt of the invitation 



WEDDINGS 261 



is the presence of the guest, while regrets are 
sent by mailing visiting cards addressed to the 
host and hostess on the day of the function, or, 
better still, despatching them by messenger at 
the hour set for the reception. 

An unmarried man posts two of his cards, 
while but one is expected from an unmarried 
woman. Married couples, however, are ex- 
pected to send two of the husband's cards with 
one of the wife's. While announcement cards 
need no acknowledgment, well-bred people in- 
variably leave their cards or call on the bride's 
parents within two weeks of the receipt of the 
formal notification of the marriage, and not un- 
frequently friends of the bride and groom 
answer announcement cards by brief notes of 
congratulation addressed to one or the other. 
This, of course, would be the case when the 
friend lives at some considerable distance. 

TIME AND PI.ACE FOR THE WEDDING 

It is said that superstition dies hard, and in 
few cases is this more true than in the careful 
thought that is given to the time chosen for a 
wedding. For ages there has been a prejudice 
against marrying in the month of May and an 
equally strong predilection for the month of 
June. Of course there is much more to be said 
for June than for any other month in the year. 



262 The modern hostess 

It is the month of roses and sunshine, and is 
a time of the year when Nature is at her fresh- 
est and the long summer days are usually char- 
acterized by a stability of weather conditions 
that probably no other month can offer. Octo- 
ber is another popular month — but little less 
popular, in fact, than the month of June. 

The Lenten season is practically the only 
period when no wedding of any distinction is 
ever celebrated. As a matter of fact, it would 
practically be impossible, unless under excep- 
tional circumstances, to hold a church wedding 
in either Roman Catholic, Episcopal, or Lu- 
theran churches during that season of fast and 
penance. 

The superstition touching Friday clings with 
additional tenacity to the general question of 
wedding-days. All other days of the week save 
Sunday are favored, but she is a plucky bride 
indeed who would dare face the awful penalties 
that superstition attaches to a Friday wedding. 

It has become very much the fashion in 
America to follow the English precedent in se- 
lecting the hour for the ceremony. Conse- 
quently, " high noon " is the more generally 
selected hour. The origin of this custom in 
England is not at all flattering to the people of 
that day, for that early hour, comparatively 
speaking, had become an absolute necessity if it 



BEDDINGS 263 



was desired to insure the sobriety of the bride- 
groom. Of course, these were days of hard 
drinking and of conditions which would not be 
tolerated to-day, least of all in England. This 
will be unwelcome reading for many of those 
who lament the passing of the " good old 
times." A far more sensible time would be be- 
tween three and five o'clock in the afternoon. 
Such an arrangement offers such sterling ad- 
vantages as a greater leisure for preparation 
and far greater convenience for the guests, and 
certainly a far more easily managed entertain- 
ment or reception after the ceremony. 

All the details of the wedding are left to the 
choice of the bride or her family. She will 
usually select her bridesmaids from her circle 
of intimate friends and relatives, and, if pos- 
sible, include one or more sisters of the bride- 
groom. It is the traditional privilege of the 
bride's best friend to serve as maid of honor, 
exception being made in favor of a sister. Sim- 
ilarly, the best man is usually the brother of the 
bridegroom or his closest friend. The ushers 
are selected from among the acquaintances of 
both the young people. 

bridesmaids' dinner 

A very popular custom is for the bride-elect 
to give a dinner to her bridesmaids, usually 



264 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

about a week before the marriage. The groom, 
his best man, and ushers may be invited, but 
ordinarily the affair is confined to the brides- 
maids and such other girl friends as may be 
desired. This dinner is probably the greatest 
frolic of all that take place during the engage- 
ment, and is invariably an opportunity of which 
the average girl will accordingly avail herself 
to revive all the innocent old superstitions. 
For instance, what sucli dinner would be com- 
plete without the huge cake which is brought 
with the ices at the close of the feast and which 
contains a ring, a key, and a thimble ? The dis- 
coverers of each are supposed to be titted for 
either marriage, wealth, or single-blessedness. 
With this surely the worshipper of the good 
old days will disparagingly compare the old- 
fashioned quilting party which formerly was 
the important girl function preceding the mar- 
riage. Certainly this old-time custom had a 
utilitarian purpose very foreign to its modern 
successor. A keen eye to future housekeeping 
interests always saw to it that the quilting 
party had the greatest practical value. The 
prosaic character of the occasion, however, was 
varied with the usual superstitions. For in- 
stance, the young woman who set the last stitch 
would surely be the first bride, and should any 
unfortunate young woman drop scissors or 



■^ITEDDINGS 26S 

thimble, woe be to her chances of marriage for 
that year at least ! 

In these times the bride-elect uses the dinner 
to present to her bridesmaids souvenirs, which 
ordinarily consist of simple pieces of jewelry, 
such as fans or such other trifles as may be 
wanted at the wedding ceremony. In any case 
they are all alike. Unfortunately, such a pro- 
ceeding is apt to form an expensive addition to 
resources already severely taxed, but if the girl 
be at all clever, she may prepare some little gift 
that will be all the more valuable because it 
has been made by her own fair fingers. 

bridegroom's dinner 

Custom demands that the expectant groom 
should also give a " stag " dinner to his best 
man, ushers, and intimate friends some time 
within a week or so of his marriage. The din- 
ner is given at his club if he is a member of one, 
or in a private room of some restaurant, or it 
may be at his own home, although usually that 
method is only adopted where the other two are 
impossible. The ushers find beside their " but- 
tonholes " such little presents as scarf pins, for 
instance, which will serve as souvenirs of the 
wedding. The bachelor dinner does not fall 
behind that of the bride in the matter of merri- 
ment. A prominent feature of most bachelor 



266 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



dinners is the drinking of the bride's health. 
This custom is not demanded arbitrarily for 
her, and it is omitted entirely without any ap- 
parent loss to the cordiality and enjoyment of 
the occasion. Where the custom is followed, 
however, the bride's health is drunk standing, 
after which each man breaks his glass, osten- 
sibly that it may never be put to less honor- 
able use. This follows an ancient custom in the 
officers' mess of the British army when the 
health of the king or queen is called for. It is 
scarcely necessary to say that both the bride- 
groom and his guests will see to it that the mer- 
riment incidental to this occasion does not as- 
sume a character that would be an insult to the 
bride were she present. 

CHURCH OR HOME WEDDINGS? 

To the religiously inclined man or woman 
there can be no question as to preference in the 
matter of a church or home wedding. Partic- 
ularly is this true should the bride belong to 
any of the older religious communions. Cer- 
tain it is that the hallowed sanctity of the house 
of God seems to breathe a Divine benediction 
that should be comforting to the bride, who is 
moving forward to an entirely new environ- 
ment, and giving up the remainder of her life 
to the control and influence of another human 



WEDDINGS 267 



being. Then, if ever, she needs the conscious- 
ness of a Divine protector. On the other hand, 
a home wedding carries with it a sense of 
warmth and human cordiality that is particu- 
larly attractive to the girl whose home life has 
been her highest happiness. 

Among the Protestant communions the state- 
liest wedding ceremony is undoubtedly that of 
the Protestant Episcopal Church, for although 
parts, if not all, of its wedding ritual are bor- 
rowed by other churches, there are a solemnity 
and a power which would seem to be inseparable 
from a ritualistic service that has been un- 
varying since the first day of the Christian era. 
It will be best, therefore, to describe a church 
wedding in the Episcopal Church and with the 
Episcopal ritual, seeing that but little altera- 
tion would be necessary to fit the description 
for the church of any other denomination. 

But first it will be in order to speak of the 
more important details, any one of which, if 
forgotten, might impair the entire ceremony. 
The bridegroom will make it his business to 
arrange for the marriage license, or, in those 
States where that is not necessary, to see the 
clergyman who is to perform the ceremony. In 
this connection it may happen to be desired 
that some clergyman officiate other than the 
rector or vicar of the church in which the cere- 



268 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



mony is to be held. In such a case, the bride- 
groom should call on the rector first and 
broach the matter delicately, paving the way 
for a consent to his request. It must be borne 
in mind that this is a point upon which every 
clergyman is very properly sensitive. If it is 
to be a public wedding, arrangements will have 
to be made with the sexton for the opening of 
the church. However, the rector will issue the 
necessary orders if requested by the groom. 

With regard to music, organist, choristers, 
organ blower, etc., some churches have a fixed 
tariff, while in others it is left to the organist 
to charge what he will, or it is left, like the min- 
ister's fee, to the generosity of the groom. 
Usually, the bride and her mother will discuss 
and arrange with the organist the musical pro- 
gramme to be played on the occasion. There is 
a frequent joke of which the humorous writers 
invariably avail themselves concerning the 
character of the musical selections sometimes 
made. For instance, at a church in the vicinity 
of New York the organist astounded his con- 
gregation by playing such pieces as " O, 
Promise Me " and similar numbers. It will be 
apparent to the most unmiaginative reader how 
vilely out of place such music sounds in a 
temple dedicated to the worship of God, and 
during a service which, in the opinion of the 



WEDDINGS 269 



vast majority of the chiarchgoers of such com- 
munion, is a sacrament of the Church. Op- 
eratic music, vocal or instrumental, is asso- 
ciated with the theatre rather than with the 
church, and its employment during a wedding 
ceremony is an inconsistency which will mar its 
solemnity for very many of the people who have 
to listen to it. 

The organ compositions of Guilmant, Widor, 
Brahms, and many of our American organ 
composers will be found in every good organ- 
ist's repertoire, and from these he should be 
allowed to make his selections. The one ex- 
ception to this rule would be, perhaps, the bri- 
dal chorus from " Lohengrin," but, where this 
is sung, care should be taken that words suit- 
able for the occasion are substituted for the 
words used in the opera. 

The question of singing a hymn is a vexed 
one, the general rule being to omit it and sub- 
stitute instead a short anthem. Perhaps one 
of the simplest and at the same time most ex- 
quisite ceremonies witnessed in New York City 
for many years was that of the Duke of Rox- 
burghe with a daughter of the Goelet family, 
which occurred at St. Thomas's Church, New 
York City, in the early part of 1904. The 
anthem for the occasion was Barnby's " Sweet 
is Thy Mercy, Lord," an anthem which in its 



270 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



sweet simplicity is exquisitely beautiful, and 
fitted for the occasion, while at the same time it 
is within the reach of the most primitive coun- 
try choir. The Church Hymual will be found to 
contain several hymns set apart for a marriage 
service. In England tradition nearly always 
favors " The voice that breathed o'er Eden." 

The organist will give a short organ recital, 
taking up from twenty to thirty minutes, before 
the time set for the ceremony. This covers all 
the confusion incidental to placing guests in the 
positions allotted to them, and at the sauie time 
interests those who come early. 

The chancel of the church Avill be decorated 
according to the resources of the florist en- 
gaged; but here, again, care must be taken to 
secure permission of the rector before attempt- 
ing to place any decorations in his church. If 
the decorations arc to be elaborate, the florist 
or decorator, besides supplying flowers for the 
altar and the reading desk, will also cover the 
chancel rail and choir stalls and swing a rope 
of flowers across the centre aisle, in place of 
the white ribbon which is generally used to 
mark the division. 

For a city church an awning will be found 
very useful. A strip of carpet will be laid from 
the edge of the curb to the church door, while 
a man in livery will be stationed at the carriage 



WEDDINGS 271 



steps to receive checks and call tlie vehicles 
again when needed. The church should be 
open at least half an hour before the ceremony, 
at which time the organist should be at his in- 
strument and the ushers prepared to show 
guests to their seats. It is customary to set 
apart the first two to four or eight pews next 
the chancel on the right and left of the centre 
aisle for the accommodation of the families 
immediately concerned, together with their in- 
timate friends, and a string of flowers or a 
white satin ribbon will be used to form a barrier 
between these favored ones and the rest of the 
company. In many cases, however, and par- 
ticularly if the ushers are alert, such a protec- 
tion will not be necessary, for it will be com- 
paratively easy for them to take people where 
they are to sit during the ceremony. Innu- 
merable jealousies and heart-burnings have 
been the result of a seat above or below this 
floral barrier, a possibility which is not at all 
probable where sixch a barrier is not employed 
and ushers are left free to manage the aifair 
themselves. 

The bridegroom, according to custom, will 
provide the bride with her boiiquet, performing 
a like favor to the bridesmaids. In addition to 
the souvenirs to his best man and ushers, he 
also supplies the gloves and neckties worn by 



272 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

these gentlemen, altliougli it is tlie duty of the 
best man to ascertain the size of gloves and 
attend to their purchase. These should be sent 
to the addresses of the men done up in boxes 
tied with white ribbon, although they are some- 
times placed at their covers at the formal 
bachelor dinner given by the bridegroom. 

The clergyman's fee is the chief question for 
the bridegroom to decide. This is rarely less 
than five dollars. This money or check is 
placed in an envelope and entrusted to the best 
man. The money for the organist and choir 
and music generally should be enclosed in an- 
other envelope and handed to the organist im- 
mediately after service. 

THE BEIDE 

The bride decides on the style, pattern, and 
inaking of the bridesmaids' gowns, and if these 
are paid for by the young women themselves it 
is always well to remember to select colors, 
styles, and material that it may be possible for 
'their wearers to use after the original occasion 
has passed. Of course, if the bride is very 
wealthy, it would be a generous and considerate 
action to pay for the dresses herself. 

The bridesmaids' gowns are usually light in 
color, and form an artistic contrast to the 
bride's dress. They carry large bouquets of 



WEDDINGS 273 



flowers that correspond with the shade em- 
ployed in their costumes. 

The maid of honor is an exception in that her 
gown is different in color from those of the 
bridesmaids, the idea usually being to have it 
of a shade which transposes the color of the 
bridesmaids' dresses into the white of the bridal 
attire, and in any case it will be of a more elab- 
orate design. Of late there has sprung up the 
practice of employing a matron of honor in- 
stead of a maid of honor; but this is usually 
only when the favored sister or friend of the 
bride is a married woman. 

All the women of the party wear hats and 
gloves, a fashion for which St. Paul is respon- 
sible, at least so far as the hats are concerned. 
Should it happen that a close friend of the 
bride's is in mourning, and yet desires to be 
present, it will be entirely proper for her to 
discard her mourning for that occasion, for a 
marriage is a religious rite and in that sense 
exempt from the conventions that dominate 
social functions pure and sunple. Above all 
else the bride should make every effort to be on 
time. She should be at the church door exactly 
on the stroke of the hour named in her invita- 
tions, but to do this properly it will be neces- 
sary to arrange that the bridesmaids and maid 
of honor are assembled in their carriages in 



274 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



good season before the bride's door, ready for 
the drive to the church. 

The bride's mother and family leave the 
house for the church a little in advance of the 
bridal party. At the church door the mother is 
met by the head usher and is escorted to her 
seat, which is in the first pew to the left, at the 
top of the centre aisle. 

When the bridal party appears at the church 
the vestibule and centre aisle are cleared by the 
ushers and at the same time the doors leading 
from the vestibule into the church are closed, 
which enables the bride and her party to as- 
semble for the procession to the altar. 

The bridegroom, with his best man, is waiting 
in an alcove, or vestry-room, near the altar. 
When everything is in readiness, the bridal 
party correctly formed, the organist at his in- 
strument, and the priest in the chancel, aji 
usher detailed for the duty gives the signal to 
everybody. Immediately the organ peals forth 
its welcoming strains, the priest rises and 
stands, half facing the advancing procession, 
the bridegroom, closely followed by his best 
man, emerges from his waiting-place, and sta- 
tions himself at the left of the chancel gate, 
turning to meet his advancing bride — the 
groomsman retaining his position behind the 
groom. The bridal procession is led by the 



WEDDINGS 275 



ushers, walking two by two, followed by the 
bridesmaids in the same order. Each file 
should maintain a distance from the file in front 
of at least five feet, preferably six. 

Next in order of precedence comes the maid 
of honor, who walks alone, immediately pre- 
ceding the bride— except in the more important, 
or rather the more elaborate, ceremonials, for 
it very frequently happens that the more im- 
portant are the most simple. Frequently the 
maid of honor will be followed by two little 
flower-boys or flower-girls scattering flowers in 
the aisle as they walk before the bride. If the 
choir is engaged, it will meet the procession at 
the vestibule door, and precede it to the altar. 
The singers proceed to their ordinary places in 
the choir stalls, singing an epithalamium, which 
will be brought to a close at the moment when 
the choirmaster or organist (whoever is in 
charge of the music) sees that all the persons 
who are to take part in the ceremony are in 
their assigned places and ready for the cere- 
mony to commence. A practice which, for a 
good many years, had been very prevalent 
throughout the country was to have the organ- 
ist play a very subdued accompaniment to the 
service, but of late there has sprung up a strong 
sentiment against it, on the score of its seeming 
theatricalism. Incidentally, theatricalism is 



276 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

the one danger of a ritualistic service, a danger 
for which the average man or woman will do 
well to be constantly on the alert. The singing 
of a processional has a far more devotional 
and, consequently, a far better effect than the 
mere accompaniment of an organ; but, of 
course, the services of singers are not easily ob- 
tained, and constitute an expense not in the 
least essential to a well-ordered ceremony. 

The bride, leaning on the right arm of her 
father, — or whoever is to give her away, — 
brings up the rear of the procession, which, 
arriving at the top of the chancel steps, divides, 
half going to the right and half to the left. 
They are grouped so as to form a semicircle on 
either side, the bridesmaids placing themselves 
between the ushers. Various artifices are re- 
sorted to to insure every individual taking up 
his appointed place; usually a chalk line is 
adopted. The maid of honor takes her place in 
front of the bridesmaids, and to the left rear of 
the bride. The bridegroom, of course, ad- 
vances to the head of the chancel steps to meet 
the bride, whereupon her escort surrenders her 
to him, and they proceed to take their places 
before the clergjTnan, kneeling for a moment in 
silent devotion. The bride's father or escort 
meanwhile will step back a few feet before the 
clergjonan begins the marriage ceremony. In 



^S^EDDINGS 277 



England it is a custom to hold the betrothal ser- 
vice at the foot of the chancel steps, near where 
the reading desk ordinarily stands, the more 
solemn ceremony which makes them man and 
wife being performed before the altar, where 
the bride and bridegroom stand alone with the 
priest. Of course there are many other 
methods of escorting the bride to the altar, but 
in the striving after novelty the bride should be 
careful not to permit the ceremony to degen- 
erate into vulgar display or the cheaper theat- 
ricalism already spoken of. Sometimes the 
order just described is departed from, and in- 
stead of the eight bridesmaids preceding the 
bride, they proceed up the side aisles in groups 
of four and in single file, meeting at the chancel 
steps and returning down the centre aisle in 
pairs, where they meet the bride about half-way 
down. Here the couples divide, standing on 
either side of the aisle, while the bride and her 
escort pass between, the bridesmaids re-form- 
ing and following after. The order is changed 
for the ushers also, who, in the instance just 
given, precede the bridesmaids up the side 
aisles, remaining at the chancel to await the 
procession ; re-forming the moment it has passed 
between them. When the clergyman arrives at 
that part of the service where he asks the ques- 
tion " Who giveth this woman to be married 



278 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

to this man ? ' ' the father or other near relative 
whose duty it is to give the bride away, ad- 
vances and, taking her right hand, places it in 
that of the clergj-man, who in turn gives it into 
the right hand of the bridegroom. This duty 
done, the father, or whoever takes his place, 
will leave the bridal party and join the bride's 
family in tlie pew reserved for their use. 

Should the widowed mother of the bride give 
her away, she will merely rise from her seat and 
bow her consent. Htre also there is a varia- 
tion of order, for occasionally it is so arranged 
that the bride retains her father's arm, staying 
by his side until the promises are made. When 
taking her hand from his arm he places it ten- 
derly in the hand of the bridegroom. While 
this procedure varies from the traditional cus- 
tom it has a certain charm in the sentiment 
which it conveys. But it is with the ceremony 
of the ring that the climax of interest is 
reached. This has been in the care of the best 
man, who will, when the clergyman comes to 
the " plighting of the troth and giving of the 
ring," take it from his pocket and hand it to 
the bridegroom. Just before this, however, the 
bride and bridegroom have clasped hands, the 
bride's gloves and bouquet being held by the 
maid of honor, who must be in readiness to re- 
ceive them. The best man having given the 



WEDDINGS 279 

ring to the bridegroom, that individual imme- 
diately passes it over to the bride, who in turn 
hands' it to the clergyman, who then completes 
the circle by giving it back again to the bride- 
groom, who places it upon the fourth finger of 
the bride's left hand. 

THE WEDDING-EING 

The wedding-ring is always of plain gold with 
the initials of the bride and bridegroom, to- 
gether with the date of marriage engraved on 
its inside. Tradition states that the fourth 
finger of the left hand was chosen to wear the 
ring, because it was supposed that a nerve con- 
nected that finger directly with the heart. Of 
late some have hold that the word " obey " in 
the marriage service is an anachronism abso- 
lutely foreign to the position of woman in this 
twentieth century. This may or may not be so, 
according to the point of view, but to the great 
majority of xVmerican women at least the word 
is nothing to quibble about. It is still true that 
the American girl is a helpmeet to her husband 
in the highest sense of the word, and that the 
word " obey " has not by any means the same 
implication as in those parts of the world where 
the woman is merely a chattel, having but a 
comparative value with her lord and master's 
horse and dog. In any event, it is not likely 



280 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

that the average bride for a long tkue to come 
will give the matter much serious thought. The 
old and charming custom of the young husband 
kissing his bride immediately after the words 
" I pronounce you man and wife " is now en- 
tirely out of fashion. At the end of the cere- 
mony the clergyman congratulates the couple. 
It is still the custom to-day in England for the 
clergyman to make a few remarks regarding 
the responsibilities to be assumed, closing with 
a few words of fatherly advice ; but in the rit- 
ualistic churches of America such a thing rarely 
happens. This rule varies among churches of 
different communions, obtaining preferably 
where an officiating minister has had close pas- 
toral relations with the bride's or bridegroom's 
family. Sometimes it happens that the same 
minister has married the parents, baptized the 
child, prepared it for its first communion, and 
exercised a spiritual fatherhood which is now 
culminating in another marriage. Under these 
circumstances it is only natural that the min- 
ister will be expected to add a few words to the 
regular service. The bridal procession turns 
from the altar and proceeds down the aisle in 
reverse order to that in which they enter. 
Strictly speaking, the friends and relatives of 
the bridal party should retain their seats until 
the procession reaches the church vestibule. 



WEDDINGS 28J 



Before commencing the recessional the maid 
of honor will either part or remove the veil 
which thus far has covered the bride's face, and 
at the same time so manipulate her train that 
it will hang properly. Arriving at the vesti- 
bule, the families of the bride and bridegroom 
are then released, and the entire party proceeds 
to the bride's house, the bride and bridegroom 
driving away together. In order that the 
bridal coach may be ready to receive the newly 
married pair, the best man follows the clergy- 
man into the vestry and hurries down the side 
aisle or through the basement of the church 
door, where he may ascertain that everything 
is in readiness and at the same time give to the 
bridegroom his hat and coat. When the party 
arrives at the house of the bride the best man 
and the ushers at once take up the duty of pre- 
senting the guests to the bridal pair. 

In England, and occasionally in this country 
where the marriage is solemnized in a ritual- 
istic church, the bridal party first goes into the 
vestry before leaving the church and the names 
are signed in the church records, as also those 
of the witnesses. If the churcn should possess 
a peal of bells, which is not unfrequently the 
case, a very suggestive and effective coloring 
may be given to the entire affair by having the 
bells rung after the service. There is a light- 



2S2 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

hearted happiness about the ]3eal of the church 
bells that appeals to the most stolid tempera- 
ment and adds a touch of festivity that is in- 
describably suggestive of happy hearts and 
bright hopes. 

There may be a wedding breakfast or a wed- 
ding reception, according to the time at which 
the marriage occurs, the reception, of course, 
having the advantage of permitting the enter- 
taining of many more friends than can be ac- 
commodated at breakfast ; hence the popularity 
of the afternoon wedding. 

A popular custom is for the members of both 
families and the bridal attendants and the 
guests of the occasion to enter their names in 
a register specially provided for that occasion, 
the signatures of the newly married pair being 
entered first. The best man will make this his 
special province, and will see to it that every 
facility is provided. It is doubtful whether the 
newly married pair will have any more valuable 
souvenir than this book, which, when bound in 
white and decorated with the arms or initials 
of the bride and bridegroom, is as artistic a 
souvenir as it is valuable. 

After the bride and bridegroom 's parents and 
the bridal attendants generally have expressed 
their love and congratulations, the bridesmaids 
take up their position with the young couple 



WEDDINGS 283 



and their parents in some easily accessible place 
and the congratulations of friends are received. 
Half the bridesmaids place themselves at the 
right hand of the bride and the rest on the left 
of the bridegroom; the bride's mother is the 
supreme hostess, and the parents of the bride- 
groom are the guests of honor. After being 
presented or offering their congratulations the 
guests will move about the room as occasion 
may demand, but the bridal pair will keep their 
places. 

In receiving congratulations the bride ex- 
tends her hand with warm cordiality, and shoiild 
any of her personal friends be unknown to her 
husband, she should later see these brought in 
order to present them. 

KISSING AT WEDDINGS 

Formerly indiscriminate kissing was a most 
conspicuous feature of a wedding, and those 
who had not succeeded in getting sufficiently 
near the bride during her progress from the 
altar to her carriage invariably forced their 
generally unwelcome salutation on the unfor- 
tunate bride at her home reception. Fortu- 
nately this fashion is no longer in vogue, and, 
in fact, is very generally condemned. The 
bride's mother may sometimes intercept her 
newly married daughter in the aisle on the way 



2«4 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

from the altar, and the two may embrace, for 
surely the kiss of a mother to a child who has 
just taken upon herself the tremendous respon- 
sibility, which the mother knows so well, may be 
regarded as the natural expression of a mother's 
heart. This exception should by no means be 
used as a precedent for the general hugging — 
nay, mobbing — of the bride, which characterizes 
weddings where this unpleasant liberty is per- 
mitted. 

MUSIC 

A marriage festivity would scarcely be com- 
plete without music of some sort. This feature, 
like everything else, will depend on the scope 
of the reception or breakfast; but when the re- 
ception is held in a private house it is well to 
remember that a few instruments with the 
piano, partially hidden in some inconspicuous 
place, will serve every purpose. The volume 
of sound should not be such as to make ordi- 
nary conversation difficult, and in the close con- 
fines of the average household reception rooms 
this is very apt to be the case. Much that has 
been written on the subject of " Music " in the 
chapter on " Balls " will be found to apply to 
weddings. A very good combination is the 
harp, violin, and flute; or harp, violin, and 
'cello, strengthened, if necessary, by the addi- 
tion of the flute. In the majority of places, how- 



WEDDINGS 285 



ever, a harp is not to be obtained, but the piano, 
in any case, will be far more useful, 

REFRESHMENTS 

This subject will be found more extensively 
treated under the heading of Wedding Break- 
fasts, Luncheons, etc. But it will be well in 
passing to point out that an amply supplied 
table, artistically decorated, is a very important 
feature of every wedding reception. Cham- 
pagne is almost invariably served. After a 
little while the bride and groom will have per- 
sonally met most of their guests and will then 
go to the dining-room, whereupon the best man 
will propose their health, the guests standing, 
glasses in hand. The central personages of the 
function are then pledged to long life and hap- 
piness, after which they may retire to make the 
necessary preparations for their journey. 

THE DEPAETXJRE 

Custom has always assigned the maid of 
honor, and sometimes the first bridesmaid, to 
the task of assisting in preparation of the bride 
for her journey. Sometimes all the brides- 
naaids share, but of late this is omitted, and the 
bride has been left to the care of her own maid 
or near relatives, the bridesmaids watching for 
her reappearance. 



286 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

1' laced upon a little table iu the hall will be 
found a number of tiny white boxes containing 
slices of wedding-cake, which guests leaving the 
house are expected to take with them, unless a 
man- or maid-servant has been specially de- 
tailed for the work of distribution. The bride- 
groom will also change his clothes and, together 
with the bridesmaids, relatives, and friends, 
stands at the foot of the staircase to await his 
bride. Her appearance is the occasion for an- 
other general welcome. The ceremony of the 
bridal bouqiiet may now take place. The brides- 
maids with outstretched hands try to catch the 
bouquet which the bride throws towards them, 
for, according to the traditional legend, the 
maid who is successful will surely be the next 
bride. The custom of throwing rice after a de- 
parting couple is gradually being abandoned in 
favor of the far more beautiful practice of 
showering the bride with loose flowers. The 
rice custom is a Chinese idea, symbolical of 
good wishes for health and prosperity, but the 
vulgar abuse, which was often attended with 
injurious and always with unpleasant results, 
has brought it into disrepute. Similarly a 
white slipper, significant of luck, is usually 
thrown after the pair; but this also had led to 
extremes. 



WEDDINGS 287 



HONEYMOON 

In our country it is greatly becoming tlie 
practice among the " Smart Set " to follow the 
English practice and spend the honeymoon at 
a friend's country house. But with the vast 
majority of American families, the country 
house is the town house as well, so that it would 
scarcely be possible to take possession of a 
friend's house for honeymoon purposes under 
such circumstances. The more fortunate, so 
far as the possession of this world's goods is 
concerned, will make a trip to Europe; still 
others, if the season of the year is suitable, to 
the many magnificently interesting localities in 
their own country. 

The length of time spent on the honejTUoon 
will naturally be dependent on circumstances, 
and may be anything from a week to a month, 
staying at some nearby place in the mountains 
or at the seaside. As a matter of fact, the place 
and duration of a honeymoon cannot be dic- 
tated either by custom or fashion, and if the 
young people content themselves with enjoying 
that which they can comfortably afford, they 
will be doing the correct thing. 



288 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

THE HOUSE WEDDING 

Although lacking the stately dignity and 
ecclesiastical environment of a church wedding, 
with its ordered ritual and impressive vest- 
ments, the house wedding has a charm which is 
entirely its own, a charm wherein modesty and 
simplicity find their loftiest expression in an 
ideal and touching ceremony performed in the 
midst of surroundings which have been a part 
of the bride's girl life. 

If the ceremony takes place in the country 
the reception may be converted into a very 
charming outdoor affair or lawn party, while 
in the city a generous use of flowers will make 
the most ordinary household belongings bright 
and cheery. The one great drawback to a 
house wedding is the economy of space which 
becomes necessary. The bridegroom, best man, 
and clergjTuan can very easily share the one 
room which must be put at their disposal, and 
there should be another for the bride and her 
attendants. The usual order of the ceremony 
is to hold the wedding in the drawing-room or 
reception room, from which every inconvenient 
article of furniture has been removed, and in 
which sometimes a temporary altar is erected, 
although this more often than not is omitted, 
on the score of its theatrical effect. The guests 



WEDDINGS 289 



are then assembled, care being taken to see that 
a right of way is maintained so that the bridal 
party may enter and advance toward the cler- 
gyman without being crowded. A plan usually 
adopted is for two ushers to measure off an 
aisle with strong white ribbon. The clergyman 
takes his position in an open place facing 
the company, the bridegroom and best man 
standing at his left awaiting the bride. The 
bridal procession will enter from the farthest 
part of the room, preceded by the ushers, after 
whom follow the bridesmaids, the maid of 
honor, and, last of all, the bride, with her 
father or nearest male relative. 

At the majority of house weddings, however, 
there are neither bridesmaids nor maids of 
honor, some one intimate friend acting as at- 
tendant. After the ceremony has been per- 
formed the clergyman congratulates the newly 
married pair and surrenders his place to the 
young couple, who face the assembly to receive 
the congratulations of their parents, relatives, 
and friends, who in turn wish them all happi- 
ness. 

In brief, all the details of ceremony which 
have been described for the church wedding, 
may be adopted more or less easily, according 
to circumstances, for a house wedding. 



290 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



AN OUT-OF-DOORS WEDDING 

Not unfrequently there occurs an " open- 
air " wedding, when the ceremony is performed 
in some favorite nook under the trees. Usually, 
this only happens when the bride's home is in 
the country, and the grounds attached to the 
house are sufiBciently ample to give a broad, 
natural background. Much can be said in its 
favor, for certainly there can be no crowding 
or vitiated atmosphere, and the natural sur- 
roundings of trees and flowers, " Nature's vest- 
ments in God's cathedral," make the best dec- 
orations possible. The wedding breakfast, or 
other refreshments, could be served upon little 
tables scattered about the lawn, and the mu- 
sicians placed on an improvised platform, or in 
a marciuee, would be sufficiently in evidence to 
brighten the affair. 

Dancing rarely occurs except at an evening 
wedding, and not always even then. It is cor- 
rect etiquette for the bride to lead the dancing, 
having the groom's best man for her partner, 
the groom following with the maid of honor. 
Sometimes it is preferred to have the bride and 
groom open the ball. 



WEDDINGS 291 



A SECOND MAHKIAGE 

Ordinarily, the wedding of a widow-bride 
should be much quieter and far less elaborate 
than was her first wedding — but here again it 
is possible to conceive of exceptions. She must 
not wear a white gown, veil, and orange blos- 
soms, but instead don a visiting costume. She 
is not attended by bridesmaids, although she 
may have a maid or matron of honor. In the 
case of a second marriage, one of the most deli- 
cate problems is the question of invitations. It 
is to be presumed, however, that the lady in the 
case will have definite views as to who ought to 
be there; but with regard to her past husband's 
family, unless they are avowedly antagonistic 
to her second marriage, she should be careful to 
give them places of honor at the ceremony. 

DECORATIONS 

Palms and flowers, easily hired for the occa- 
sion, together with flowering plants, if they are 
tastefully disposed, will be found far more ef- 
fective and certainly far more economical than 
cut flowers. The decorative inventiveness of 
the average girl will easily suggest a scheme of 
decorations that will best suit the room in which 
the ceremony is to be held, if it is to be a hous(^ 
wedding. If it is to be a church wedding, the 



292 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

decorating of the chancel, altar, altar-rail, choir 
stalls, and possibly the pews of the families 
immediately concerned, might be made to con- 
stitute a very pleasant evening's enjoyment on 
the part of the bride and groom's young 
friends; although ordinarily the task is com- 
mitted to a florist hired for the occasion. House 
decorations should be marked by great sim- 
plicity, for it should be remembered that the 
bride is the central ornament, and to have the 
flower-scheme obtruding itself on every one's 
attention is to mar the effect of the whole. 
Where space permits, a part of the room is set 
aside to represent a miniature chapel, or else 
a bow window is turned into a bower. Floral 
wedding bells or other set pieces are no longer 
employed. It has already been stated that the 
tendency in " churchy " house decoration is to 
the theatrical, but with the exercise of a little 
common sense and the application of good taste 
this can be avoided. 

THE BEHEAESAL 

Next in importance to the wedding ceremony 
is the rehearsal. The more elaborate the func- 
tion the more necessary will be the drill for it. 
Of course most of this work can be gone over 
at home, but whenever possible the church 
should be secured for one final rehearsal. 



WEDDINGS 293 



Many priests will not i^ermit such a use of their 
church, but the majority of the sectarian bodies 
are far more liberal. In any case, a little skil- 
ful diplomacy will find the way to a com- 
promise wdth the most obdurate clergjnnan. 
One of the main reasons for a church rehearsal 
is that frequently the bridal party will include 
individuals who are not acquainted with the 
ritual and ceremony of the church in which the 
wedding is to take place, and for such a re- 
hearsal is an absolute necessity. The church 
rehearsal, however, should not be made the 
occasion of a little spree. High spirits are very 
natural on such an occasion, but they should 
not find vent in the sacred edifice. Even though 
the building be a tumble-down barn, if it has 
been dedicated to the service of God it is His 
house, and the place *' Wherein His Honor 
dwelleth." After the rehearsal, and at the 
bride's house, refreshments and a generally 
good time will be in order. 

THE PRrV^ILEGES OF A BRIDE 

Time was, when our country was very young, 
and the local communities very small, that a 
wedding was the affair of the whole district. 
It levelled what few distinctions were known in 
those days, and converted the homeliest of 
maidens into the most beautiful of brides, the 



294 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

interest of the community only reaching its 
climax on the first Sunday after the wedding- 
day, when the young bride bkishingly took her 
place among the matrons, who henceforth were 
to be her friends and neighbors. Not the least 
of the privileges was the right to choose the 
minister's text on that occasion, although this 
right was not always insisted upon. In the 
case of Miss Abby Smith, however, the bride 
availed herself of her right to the great undoing 
of her pastor. Miss Abby was the frolic-loving 
bride of John Adams, and the consternation of 
the New England minister may be imagined 
when he read the text selected for his discourse 
by the statesman 's bride : 

" John came, neither eating nor drinking, 
and they say, He hath a devil ! ' ' 

Enough of this old-time courtesy to the bride 
still remains with our modern society to give 
her a temporary social precedence, during 
which period she is the guest of honor where- 
ever she is invited, and at dinners, or wherever 
formal refreshments are served, she is taken in 
by her host. Naturally, a great deal depends 
on the size of the locality, for it would be ob- 
viously impossible, in cities where brides are 
practically an everyday occurrence, to give 
them much more than passing recognition. In 
smaller towns the reigning iieriod of u bride 



WEDDINGS 295 



may be for auy length of lime up to three 
months. On the conclusion of the houejTiioou 
the bride is expected to issue invitations for 
certain reception days to enable her friends to 
call and see her, and for which only the cup that 
cheers, etc., will be necessary. Reciprocal cour- 
tesies are not demanded to the thousand and 
one little social attentions showered upon a 
young bride. 

BBIDAL PRESENTS 

The bride-elect will almost invariably find 
herself the recipient of presents or wedding 
gifts of one thing or another, and she must be 
quick to acknowledge their receipt. Under 
none but the most compelling circumstances 
must she give this task to another. A grace- 
fully worded note of thanks sent personally is 
what is required, utterly regardless of the value 
of the gift or the social standing of the giver. 
Some such outline as follows might be used: 

40 Astor Place, 

May 27, 1904. 
Deae Mks. Liebling : 

Please acK^ept my warmest thanks for the 
handsome dishes that have just arrived. Be- 
lieve me, of all my presents, none are more ad- 



296 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

mired or highly prized than yours. I hope and 
expect to see you on my wedding-day. 
Very sincerely yours, 

Maby Pbeston. 

Another form, the wording of which will in- 
dicate to the reader the circumstances for which 
it would be used, is as follows : 

The Elms, 
September 20, 1905. 
Deab Mr. Mooee : 

Your exquisite little gift has arrived, and 1 
cannot tell you how delighted I am at the evi- 
dence of remembrance from one so far away. 
Also, please accept my sincere thanks for your 
good wishes for my future. 
Again thanking you, believe me to be yours, 
Veea E. Lovett. 

A practice which in many instances is far 
more useful than any gift of silver plate is for 
the near relatives of the young couple to send 
their present in the form of a check. This, of 
course, more especially refers to the father of 
the bride or bridegroom, but it might with 
equally good taste be true of any other near 
relative. For any one else to send a check 
would be intolerably bad form, always except- 
ing circumstances regarding which only the 



WEDDINGS 297 



young couple themselves are competent to 
decide. So far as displaying the wedding-gifts 
is concerned, custom differs. In the country 
they are more often than not on exhibition on 
the day of the wedding and during the recep- 
tion, for the simple reason that there is usually 
no opportunity for showing them before the 
wedding. The gifts are displayed in a room 
set apart for that purpose, every article being 
distinguished by the card of its donor. If it 
is a town wedding, the gifts will be on view 
some afternoon two or three days before the 
wedding. Usually the mother of the bride 
sends out brief invitations on her visiting cards, 
asking in the friends and relatives and espe- 
cially those who have sent the presents. Occa- 
sionally the donor's cards are turned face down 
by the side of the gift, and the number only of 
the gift is displayed, in which case there will 
quite naturally not be any further exhibition. 
Superstitious brides do not like to receive pres- 
ents marked with their future name or initials, 
as this is regarded as a very unlucky omen. 

THE BEIDEGROOM 

Most of the duties and privileges of the bride- 
groom have been already related, but it remains 
to be added that the genuinely considerate 
bridegroom will make every allowance for the 



298 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

preoccupation of his bride-to-be during the 
busy days that precede the marriage. On the 
wedding-day he must deny himself the pleasure 
of seeing her until he meets her at the altar, or 
before the officiating clergyman. If the wed- 
ding is at twelve o'clock, the best plan will be 
for him to breakfast with his best man and 
drive with him to the church, or, if the hour is 
later in the afternoon, they could take luncheon 
together. He will make sure that the grooms- 
man has the ring and fee, and that every pos- 
sible detail has been attended to. If it is a 
house wedding the two men will arrive at the 
house at least fifteen minutes in advance of the 
ceremony, and go at once to the room set apart 
for them. After the bride has gone to her 
room to change her dress, the groom hastens 
to exchange his wedding garments for his trav- 
elling suit. Just a word of parting advice. 
The sensible, well-poised man will not permit 
himself to be carried away by the excitement of 
the occasion, but will insist that, so far as he is 
concerned at least, there shall not be any dis- 
play of extravagance or elaborateness of ex- 
pense that would be inconsistent with his finan- 
cial or Kocial status, or that would be burden- 
some to him to maintain. 



WEDDINGS 299 



THE WEDDING BREAKFAST 

The wedding breakfast is not usually under- 
taken except by people of large means and 
ample house accommodations. If it is given at 
all, the list of invited guests will be closely 
limited to the relatives and particular friends 
of the two families. Music will be supplied. 

Men-servants in evening livery will look after 
tlie wants of the guests. A special table, elab- 
orately decorated and served, will be set apart 
for the bridal party, but, with this sole excep- 
tion, all the tables are open to whoever claims 
them. The affair is informal to the extent that 
no order of precedence is observed in the matter 
of location or service. The bridal party does 
not enter the breakfast room until all the 
guests are assembled, after which the procession 
to the feast is formed, the bridal couple lead- 
ing, followed by the ushers and maids of honor, 
the bride's father with the groom's mother, or 
nearest female relative, and finally, the guests 
in general. The hostess, of necessity, will be 
last, for it is her duty to see that no woman is 
without an escort. The breakfast differs from 
the dinner in the matter of escorting the lady, 
seeing that she does not take the arm of her 
escort. When the bride cuts the cake, the 
guests at the bridal table are served first, al- 



loo THE MODERN HOSTESS 

though this is rarely done at a breakfast, the 
little boxes already described and served in the 
hall answering the necessary purpose. When 
a wedding takes place before two o'clock, 
luncheon follows as a matter of course. After 
that hour it would be followed by a reception 
tea. 

THE WEDDING LUNCHEON 

is usually a sitting-down affair. During the 
summer months a cold luncheon is invariably 
given, the dishes, etc., being handed by servants. 
Chicken and lobster in mayonnaise and aspic; 
oysters in various ways ; salads of all kinds — 
fish, fowl, and fruit; tongue and choice ham; 
sandwiches and hot rolls; creams, jellies, ices, 
elaborate confectionery, and wedding cake. 

Champagne or iced cup is supposed to go 
with any of the before-mentioned dainties bet- 
ter than chocolate or coffee, and thus the guests 
usually commence with champagne and con- 
clude with coffee later on. If possible, it will 
be far nicer to set apart another room for the 
chocolate and coffee, ices, etc.; otherwise they 
would be served at a separate table in the 
luncheon room. 



CORRESPONDENCE 

The het/note of successful letter-ivriting is 
sincerity, and in this age of hurry one may al- 
most say that the second greatest virtue in a 
correspondent is brevity. At the same time a 
certain amount of punctiliousness is called for 
in our communications to strangers, nor should 
the barriers of a proper reserve and dignity be 
altogether forgotten in the offhand letters one 
writes daily to familiar friends. 

There is an etiquette of correspondence just 
as inflexible as is the etiquette of the dinner 
table or of any social function. To betray a 
lack of knowledge of what is correct in this par- 
ticular is to commit the unpardonable sin and 
to invite social ostracism. As in all things 
else, changes are continually occurring in re- 
gard to the styles of stationery used, methods 
of expression, and general style of composi- 
tion. Letters written half a century ago have 
a stiffness and formality which would seem en- 
tirely out of place in the present age. The 
more naturally one expresses one's self the 
more attractive epistolary correspondence is 
apt to prove. An easy and graceful style in 
30t 



302 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

writing is sometimes instinctive, but more often 
is the result of careful and elaborate i>ractice. 

The sins of commission being more important 
than the sins of omission in this direction, at- 
tention shoiald be directed to the following im 
proprieties often committed by the careless or 
illiterate writer. 

Do not use slang. Omit foreign words and 
phrases— they savor of affectation. " Don't " 
and " reckoned " are not considered elegant 
English. " Got " is without the pale. Culti- 
vate your best style of penmanship, as it is no 
longer considered aristocratic to scrawl. See 
that your stationery is both neat and clean. Be 
careful not to mix up ' ' who ' ' and ' ' whom. ' ' 
This is an error so common with correspond- 
ents that reference to it seems to be indisi)en- 
sable. " Who " is the nominative, and 
" whom " tbe objective form. " To whom 
have you sent the money? " — not " Who have 
you sent the money to? " " Who do men say 
that I am? " is correct, because the nominative 
is used after the verb " to be." Never use the 
" and " sign in a letter, but always write the 
word out. Never close the letter with " Yours, 
etc." It is bad form. Be courteous in writing 
as you would in speech. Attempt no I'hetorical 
display in a simple letter; reserve it for your 
essays. To write " very truly " or " very siu- 



CORRESPONDENCE 



303 



cerely " without the addition of " yours " sug- 
gests a lack of good breeding as well as defec- 
tive education. The "yours" should come 

last. 

Stationery.— It is quite customary nowadays 
to be particular about one's stationery, and, on 
the part of many, to make it as characteristic 
as possible of the owner. Where the crest or 
monogram is not used, the street, club, or 
country-place address is printed either in Ger- 
man or old English text, or in a simple and 
clear type conspicuous only for its neatness. 
Many of the most particular persons adhere 
rigidly to plain white paper, usually preferring 
the Belfast linen, than which scarcely anything 
can be found more conformable to the rules of 
good taste. Where colors are used they should 
in all cases be of the " invisible " or subdued 
tints, under which conditions certain shades of 
gray' blue, and lavender, even salmon, are per- 
missible. Anything glaring in the way of color 
should be strictly tabooed. The pure, unwoven 
linen paper, resembling parchment, is much in 
favor. French papers of light weight and over- 
land mail are used for foreign letters. 

The Use of Family Crests is daily becoming 
more popular in this country. Monograms 
also are used to a certain extent. There is no 
excuse for a vulgar display of either crest or 



304 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

monogram. If one or the other be used, it 
should be small and of inconspicuous color. 

Women as a rule are apt to run to more ex- 
travagance in their stationery than men, but 
they should guard themselves carefully against 
bizarre effects, which only afford ground for 
criticism from persons of taste. 

For the country house or club there is often, 
in addition to the engraved name and initials, 
the address of the nearest post office, express 
office, and telephone station. It is also cus- 
tomary to have the writing paper for private 
yachts and important camps stamped with a 
design illustrative of the quarters occupied. 
Sometimes a pretty motto, with the name of the 
boat or camp, is substituted. 

It should be superfluous to have to state that 
a gentleman will not use his business stationery 
for social correspondence. Members of clubs 
usually find a supply of stationery at their dis- 
posal which it is correct to use for answering 
social letters. Letter paper should never be 
ruled, and should be of a size to fold once into 
the envelope. Occasionally the monogram, 
crest, or address is printed on the flap of the 
envelope, and there is no objection to this from 
the point of good taste. 

The Stationeyji uscil hi/ Persons in Mourning 
is no longer regulated by an elaborate system 



CORRESPONDENCE 305 

of different depths of border, a medium depth 
matching that on the cards used by widow, 
orphan, or other bereaved blood relative being 
considered correct form. This black-edged 
paper is used as long as mourning is worn. 
The same rule applies to the stationery of a 
widower as to that of a widow, or any close 
relative. Addresses, monograms, or crests on 
mourning stationery are necessarily printed or 
embossed in black. 

The Use of Postal Cards for purposes of 
social communication is not by any means sig- 
nificant of good taste, except when used for the 
most impersonal purposes. Postal cards may 
be utilized for the announcements of meetings 
of committees and societies, or the terse con- 
veyance of some trivial intimation, but to make 
them the vehicle for the expression of private 
affairs is inexcusable. "Whenever used, the cus- 
tomary " My Dear " is omitted and the initials 
merely used as a signature, or the initials of 
first names, with surname in full. 

It was formerly fashionable to use the Third 
Person in all formal correspondence with 
tradesmen, servants, and with persons who 
were strangers. It was also used where espe- 
cial stiffness was desired between equals, to em- 
phasize some animosity prevailing between the 
correspondents. The custom has become al- 



306 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

most obsolete now among persons of refine- 
ment, and only antiquated individuals attempt 
such starchy commencements as " Mrs. Jordan 
Jones presents her compliments and begs to 
ask," etc. 

The new style is altogether more pleasing 
and amiable. Mrs. Jordan Jones, in address- 
ing an equal either in regard to club matters, 
servant's references, or whatever it may be, 
commences with the much raoi'e natural '* Dear 
Madam." In addressing a tradesman whom she 
regularly patronizes, Mrs. Jones commences 
" My Dear Mr. Colfax," her third-person form 
being used only in cases of strange tradesmen 
or firms, in addressing whom she may correctly 
say, " Mrs. Jordan Jones presents her compli- 
ments, and begs to enquire if the carriage or- 
dered by her is ready for shipment? " 

To Commence a Note or Letter according to 
the American form, if one wishes to be rather 
formal, it is customary to start with " My Dear 
Mr. Jardine," but where one is more intimate 
" Dear Mr. Jardine " would be substituted. 
The " My " should be dropped by the lady first 
when the correspondence is between members 
of the opposite sexes. " Dear Miss Pierre- 
pont " may then with perfect propriety lie sub- 
stituted for " My Dear Miss Pierre] >oiit." In 
no case will a man of breeding commence a let- 



CORRESPONDENCE 307 

ter " Dear Miss," and where the acquaintance 
is of a formal character, " Madam " or " Dear 
Madam " is the recognized form of greeting. 
The Conclusion of a Letter is a matter upon 
which one should be precise and accurate. 
Favorite forms for ending friendly communi- 
cations are: "Believe me, sincerely yours," 
" Believe me, faithfully yours," and " Believe 
me, cordially yours." In conclusion one may 
also say: " I remain, dear Mrs. Huntley, with 
kind regards." Between intimates, " Affec- 
tionately yours," " Devotedly yours," and 
" Fondly yours " are customary phrasings, the 
" Yours truly " or " Very truly yours " being 
used for more formal correspondence. 

It is incorrect to use initials, surnames, or 
given names only, and diminutives are inex- 
cusable as signatures for notes or letters. The 
correct signature for a married woman is " Jo- 
sephine Black," not " Mrs. Josephine Black," 
to letters of a social character. When it is 
necessary to convey to a correspondent the in- 
formation that the writer is married, it is ac- 
complished by writing " [Mrs. Josephine 
Black) " underneath the regular signature, in 
brackets. 

Unmarried Women, who sign their names in 
full, as " Helen Gray," when desiring to inti- 
mate that they are maids and not widows, may 



308 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

precede the name with the word " Miss " in 
brackets. 

When writing on a matter of business to a 
woman with whom his acquaintance is slight, a 
man will conclude, " I am, my dear madam, 
your obedient servant." A less stilted ending 
is " Respectfully yours," or " Truly yours." 
The letter of condolence generally concludes 
with " I beg to remain yours to command." 

Addressing the Envelope is a matter of some 
discrimination. Gentlemen are addressed ' ' Jo- 
siah Thompson, Esq.," a tradesman's name 
being preceded by the more unpretentious 
" Mr.," while a servant would be addressed as 
plain " Jonathan James." " Miss " or " Mrs." 
invariably precedes the name of a woman. It is 
very bad form to address a woman as " Mrs. 
Captain So-and-So," " Mrs. Judge Burton," 
or " Mrs. Doctor Sayers." It is not customary 
for an American woman to assume her hus- 
band's honorary title. A female practising 
physician is addressed " Dr. Emily Harrison "; 
social communications are inscribed " Miss 
Emily Harrison " or " Mrs. Emily Harrison." 
A servant's letter is addressed " Mary Bren- 
nan " or " John Thomjjson." 

Simplicity is a growing feature of social cor- 
respondence, the heavy, formal models of a 
generation ago having become obsolete. 



CORRESPONDENCE 309 



An invitation to a social gathering must de- 
fine the nature of the event, the time, and the 
place. Such invitations are usually written in 
the third person, but this has a rather stiff 
effect, and if the persons to meet are intimates 
and the gathering small and informal, the in- 
vitation may take the form of a familiar letter 
or even be given verbally. 

TO ADDKESS PERSONS OF DISTINCTION 

In addressing the President of the United 
States, an official letter should commence 
" Sir," and conclude " I have the honor to 
remain your most obedient servant." A social 
letter to the Chief Executive commences " My 
Dear Mr. President," and concludes " I have 
the honor to remain most respectfully yours." 
The envelope should be addressed " His Ex- 
cellency, President Theodore Eoosevelt." 

To address the Vice-President, an official let- 
ter should begin " Sir," or " Dear Sir," con- 
cluding " I have, Sir, the honor to remain your 
most obedient servant." Or a social letter, 
" My Dear Mr. C," with conclusion as to the 
President. The address may be preceded by 
" His Excellency," following which comes 
" The Vice-President, E. J. Davis." 

An official letter to a Justice of the Supretne 
Court is couched in the same phraseology as 



3J0 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



one to the Vice-President, and a social letter 
commences *' Dear Mr. Justice Hanlon," con- 
cluding " Believe me truly (or sincerely) 
yours." The envelope is addressed " Mr. 
Justice C. H. Hanlon." 

A Senator is officially addressed in the same 
manner as the Vice-President, a social letter to 
the same commencing " My Dear Senator 
Jones," and ending as one to a justice. The 
envelope should be inscribed " Senator John 
Jones," or " To the Honorable John Jones." 

A Member of the House of Representatives 
is similarly addressed. Social communications 
should commence " My Dear Mr. Johnson," 
ending as to a justice, the envelope being in- 
scribed " Honorable James Johnson." 

An official communication to a Member of the 
Cabinet has a similar commencement and con- 
clusion as one to a vice-president, the beginning 
and ending of a social letter duplicating one to 
a member of the House. The envelope should 
be inscribed " Honorable Randolph P. Max- 
well, Secretary of the Treasury." 

The term " Honorable " is prefixed to the 
address of judges, mayors, senators, repre- 
sentatives, and others distinguished in public 
life, even after their terms of office have ex- 
pired. 

All Armij Officers above the gi-ado of Lieu- 



CORRESPONDENCE 3U 



tenant should be addressed by their specific 
title and rank. To illustrate: 

General Henry C. Corbin, 
Adjutant-General, 

United States Army. 

" Sir " is an official form of address, " My 
Dear General," following the title, for an in- 
formal note or one of intimacy. Titles should 
never be abbreviated, as, for instance, " My 
Dear Genl.," for Assistant AdJTitant-CTeneral. 
The address should always indicate when 
officers are in command, as, " To Major-Gen- 
eral Henry A. Corbin, Commanding Officer," 
or, " Commanding the Army of the U. S.," or, 
" Commander-in-Chief, Army of the IJuited 
States, Washington, D. C." 

A custom has been established by the War 
Office by which the office is addressed instead 
of the individual : " To the General in command 
of the Army of the United States," etc. 

Army officers holding geographical depart- 
ments are addressed " The Commanding Officer 
26th U. S. Infantry "— not " Colonel command- 
ing 26th U. S. Infantry." This would be the 
army form with name omitted: " Asst. Adju- 
tant-General, 3rd Brigade, 2nd Division, 
Tampa, Florida." 



312 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

A similar rule prevails with any officer in 
command — a major, colonel, captain, or lieu- 
tenant. Non-commissioned officers in the vol- 
unteer army retain their titles even when no 
longer under military discipline. 

The Rule in the Navy is that all grades of 
rank under that of commander are addressed 
by the title of the grade, or by the simple term 
" Mr.," with the initials " U. S. N." after the 
surname. 

Clerical Titles vary slightly according to the 
form of church government, and also with the 
order of degree. 

The following are the forms of address and 
salutation for each of the leading churches : 

Archbishop (Anglican): "My Lord," or 
" My Lord Archbishop." " May it please 
Your Grace." " To His Grace the Lord Arch- 
bishop." 

Archbishop (Roman Catholic): " Most Rev- 
erend and Respected Sir," or " Most Reverend 
and Dear Sir." " To the Most Reverend Arch- 
bishop Chatteris, Archbishop of Ely." 

A Bishop (Protestant or Roman Catholic) : 
" Right Reverend and Dear Sir." " To the 
Right Reverend Bishop of Ely. ' ' 

The word " Venerable " is placed before the 
name of an Archdeacon: " The Venerable 
Baldwin Grey, Archdeacon of Sudbury." 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



BCX)K V 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 

CARVING 

BEVERAGES 

MIXING AND SERVING DRUNKS 

TOASTS 

INDEX 



Vegetarian Coffee 



Individual Brealc&st Service 



ConeoUbateb Xibtatis ot 
anb Ibpueebolb IRecipee 



CHRISTINE TERHUNE HERRICK 

BDITOR-IN-CHIBP 

Autbor of "The Little Dinner." *' The Chaflng-DUh Sapper,** ete., 

anl associate author with 



MARION HARLAND 

of the National Cook 
Book 



AND 



A LIST OP CONTRIBUTORS WHICH INCLUDES MANY OP 

THE PAMOUS CHBPS AND COOKING BXPBRT8 

OP THB UNITED STATES 



VOL. V. 



Hew Sorft 

V. 3. SoMner Company 

1905 



(f>^/.^ 



( • 

a' 






>/. 5" 



Copyright, 1904 
By R. J. BODMER 



THE WtDNER QOMFANV 



CONTENTS 

Ohafing-dish Bboipbs 1 

Nuts and Their Uses 13 

Cabying 18 

Beverages . . ; 29 

Mixing and Serving Drinks 51 

Story of the Wines 

Origin and History .126 

Modern Wines 181 

Analysis of Wines 132 

Wines of France 133 

Discovery of Champagne 134 

Production of Champagne . . . .134 

Bordeaux Wines 142 

Claret . . 142 

Sauternes 144 

Wines of Germany 146 

BmNB Wine 146 

Wines of Hungary 149 

Wines of Portugal 160 

Port Wine 150 

Madeira Wine 152 

Wines of Spain 153 

Sherry . • . 153 

Wnras OF Italy 158 

Wines of America 159 

Modern Wines of Oreecb • ... 161 

Liqueurs and Bitters 172 



vi CONTENTS 

PAQB 

Toasts and SPEEOHMAKnra 175 

Menu Terms in Foreign Lanouagbs ... 207 
Nahbs of Meats, Fruits, and Vbgetablbs in Va- 
rious Lanquaqbs 208 

Terms Used in (Jooeisq 211 

Index 2S1 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 

Poached Esrsrs with Anchovy or Caviare 

Poached eggs are prepared in the regular 
way, and will be found very adaptable to the 
chafing-dish. Serve. on toast. The toast may 
first be spread with anchovy or caviare, mak- 
ing the dish more of a delicacy. 

Deerfoot Farm Sausitses and Bacon 

Put brazier on ; when the metal shows a blue 
heat, put in the sausages and bacon. When 
done on one side turn to the other. These form 
a very good and substantial combination with 
scrambled eggs. Bemove part of the fat and 
add the eggs, no butter being necessary. Bacon 
and sausages folded into an omelet is another 
means for serving them. 

Preparation 

For nearly all chafing-dish recipes it must be 
taken into account that at most two chafing- 
dishes are used ; therefore, to facilitate matters, 
all preparations possible must be made in ad- 
vance. Any meats, fish, etc., that have to be 
prepared before to have ready for the final 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 



chafing-dish composition, boil during the day, 
and hfve ttem cold, ready for heating and for 
final use. For meat, etc., that is desired to 
brown quickly, remove the under water-pan. 

Veal kidney Saut6 

Take a veal kidney, remove tissuci etc., split. 
Marinade in olive-oil; skewer through the kid- 
ney cross-wayS) with steel skewers procured for 
that purpose. Have a tablespoonful of butter 
very hot in the brazier. ' Put in kidney, and 
brown. Have a tablespoonful of minced onion ; 
add to the kidney ; brown in the butter ; it gives 
a light delicate flavor to the kidneys. Cover, 
and cook for ten minutes. Put on platter. Let 
butter get a rich brown^ and pour over the kid- 
neys. Serve on toast. 

Venetian Essrs 

Slice 1 small onion, fry in butter in the chaf- 
ing-dish; add 1 can tomatoes; season with 1 
teaspoonful each of salt, pepper, and 1 table- 
spoonful butter. Cook for ten minutes. 

Break 6 eggs into a dish and drop into chaf- 
ing-dish. Take large fork and instead of stir- 
ring raise the contents repeatedly from the 
bottom up, so as not to break the yolks. 

Just before serving, add 2 tablespoonfuls of 
grated or Parmesan cheese. Serve on hot 
crackers or toast. 



CHAPING-DISH RECIPES 



Tripe it la Crtole 

Prepare tripe as for calf's brains, only boil 
until tender. Cut up into small pieces. Pre- 
pare Creole method, as for omelet a la Creole. 
To the mixture add the tripe, using 1 cupful of 
tomatoes instead of 1 tomato, and 1 teaspoonful 
of beef extract. 

Tripe A la Poulette 

Prepare tripe, then proceed as for creamed 
chicken; adding to either the chicken or the 
tripe a dozen small button mushrooms. Will 
be found a palatable addition. 

Sweetbread Saut£ 

Prepare sweetbreads. Put 1 tablespoonful 
butter into chafing-dish ; let it get brown color. 
Dip the sweetbread into beaten egg, then bread 
crumbs, and brown in hot butter ; when brown, 
cover, and simmer for ten minutes. Serve with 
slice of lemon and chopped parsley. 

Clams h la Newburs 

Prepare as for Oysters a la Newburg. 

Calf s Brain with Scrambled Egg 

Blanch calf's brain, by first washing in ice 
water ; then put into boiling water to which have 
been added a few whole peppers, ^ bay leaf, 1 
spoonful of vinegar. Boil for five minutes ; re« 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 



move ; set on ice to cool^ remove tissue, and beat 
up, forming a creamy batter. 

Put in the chafing-dish 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter ; heat. Beat up 4 eggs, add l^ cupful of 
brains. When butter is hot add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of cream to the egg mixture, and scramble 

6 eggs. 

Sweetbreads a la Crime 

Procure 2 large firm sweetbreads; soak in 

cold water for two hours, keeping the water 

cold by changing several times. Then put in 

chafing-dish, cover with cold water, bring to a 

boil ; boil ten minutes. Bemove and again put 

in cold water; dry, and remove all fibre and 

tissue. Cut into dice, and proceed as for 

creamed cicken. 

Crab*Meat with Green Peppers 

Have ready flaked crab-meat ; be sure that it 
is well cleared of cellular tissue. Put into chaf- 
ing-dish 1 tablespoonf ul of butter ; heat and put 
in the crab-meat. Season with salt, pepper, 
paprika ; slice in thin rings of sweet green pep- 
per ; cover, and allow to simmer for a few min- 
utes. Add % pint or cupful of rich cream. 
Cook for ten minutes, and serve on toast. 

Little Piffs in Blankets 

Season a few large oysters with salt and pep- 
per. Wrap each in thin slice of best bacon and 



CEIAFING-DESH REX3PES 



fasten with wooden toothpick. Have chafing- 
dish very hot, and cook pigs just enough to 
crisp bacon. Serve on toast or platter, gar- 
nishing with parsley. 

Oyster Rarebit 

Clean and remove the hard muscle from ^ 
pint oysters ; put 1 tablespoonf ul butter and i/^ 
pound cheese into the chafing-dish; miY 1 salt- 
spoonful each of salt, mustard, and a dash of 
cayenne i)epper. While this mixture is melting, 
beat 2 eggs, and add to the oyster liquor. Mix 
this gradually with the melted cheese, then add 
the oysters, and serve at once on hot toast. 

Lobster h la Newburs: 

Take pint measure of diced boiled lobster, put 
into brazier or chafing-dish. Add seasoning of 
salt, 1 teaspoonful; cayenne pepper, a dash; 2 
tablespoonfuls butter, or the same of minced 
truffles. Stir together ; add wineglassf ul of ma- 
deira, or sherry wine ; stir, and cook eight min- 
utes. To 2 well-beaten yolks add % cupful of 
cream ; add to the lobster meat, stirring all well 
together, but do not let it boil. Serve on toast 
witi little French finger rolls. 

Oysters h la Newburg 

Put into the chafing-dish 1 quart strained 
oysters; simmer for a few minutes until the 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 



edges curl up. Season with cayeune, 1 salt* 
spoonful salty and a little celery salt. Add the 
sherry or madeira, and proceed as for lobster 
a la Newburg. 

Broiled Oysters 

Take large oysters; dry on napkin; dip in 
olive-oil; then in bread crumbs. Put 1 table- 
spoonful of butter into chafing-dish. Have very 
hot, and put in the oysters ; fry a golden brown ; 
serve with slice of lemon, and decorate with 
parsley. Serve on toast. 

Creamed Codfish 

Flake cold boiled codfish, or soak for six 
hours salted or prepared codfish. Put 1 table- 
spoonful of butter into a chafing-dish; when 
hot stir in 1 tablespoonful of flour. Stir to a 
paste; add gradually i/^ cupful of milk and 1 
cupful of cream. Bring to a boil ; then add the 
cod or other cold fish. If salt fish is used, omit 
salt in the seasoning; use pepper and paprika, 
serve on toast. 

Creamed Lobster 

Is prepared in the same way as creamed 
chicken, omitting celery and green pepper, 
which are usually treated as two distinct 
methods of serving chicken. This is a very 
pleasing dish, and is not so rich as lobster t la 
Newburg. 



{ 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES '/ 

Terrapin 

Mince or dice 1 terrapin. Season with salt, 
pepper, cayenne. Put into chafing-dish 3 table- 
spoonfuls butter ; when hot, add the minced ter- 
rapin ; cover with 1 cupful of the stock from the 
boiling of the terrapin. Bring to a boil ; add 1 
minced truffle, a few minced mushrooms. Stir 
all together ; reduce the stock about two-thirds ; 
add 1 wineglassful of sherry or madeira. Dis* 
solve 1 teaspoonf ul of arrowroot in 1 cupful rich 
cream ; season with nutmeg, and pour over the 
terrapin; bring to a boil. Serve in individual 
copper saucepan, with French finger bowls or 
in deep plate. 

Omelet 

Beat separately 4 eggs. Season yolks with 
salt, pepper, cayenne; add 2 tablespoonfuls of 
milk or cream ; add whites. Have lump of but- 
ter size of walnut in the chafing-dish. Let it 
get a light brown ; pour in the eggs ; as soon as 
eggs begin to set at bottom, run knife along the 
edge (an artist's palette knife will be found to be 
useful on all such occasions). If it does not ad- 
here to the bottom, and there is sufficient butter 
there to keep it from doing so, cover so that the 
omelet will cook through. When cooked, fold 
over and slip out on palette, or serve right in 
the chafing-dish. 



8 CHAFING-DISH REOPES 

French Omelet 

Into a bowl put 4 eggs, season with salt. Into 
chafing-dish put 1 tablespoonful of butter; 
when heated, pour into chafing-dish the well- 
beaten eggs. Take spoon or fork and draw 
from the edge of the dish to the centre, which 
will give the layer-like composition noticed in 
French omelets. Instead of folding in half, fold 
each edge to the centre ; then fold again, or be- 
gin at the edge and roll up, making first fold 
about an inch and a half. Have parsley garni- 
ture for plain omelet, or mince parsley and 
sprinkle the omelet before folding. 

Spanish Omelet 

Put butter in chafing-dish. Have ready 1 
tablespoonful each of chopped onions, green 
pepper, mushrooms, pickles, and 1 tomato, or 
% cupful canned tomatoes. Season with salt, 
pepper, paprika, V2 teaspoonful ^' kitchen bou- 
quet," and % teaspoonful beef extract, or 
add 1 tablespoonful of cooked minced ham or 
bacon. Stir all together; allow to steam while 
preparing the omelet, stirring occasionally to 
see that it does not burn. Prepare omelet as in 
previous recipe. When all is ready remove the 
mixture from the chafing-dish into covered 
vegetable dish. Put 1 tablespoonful of butter 
into the chafing-dish; cook the omelet; before 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 



folding over add the filling; fold over, and 
serve. 

Cheese Omelet 

Sprinkle omelet with grated Parmesan 
cheese and fold over. 

Nut Omelets 

Have whatever filling desired ready. If nnts 
are used, stew them first in a little water ; add 
2 tahlespoonf nls of cream, season with salt, and 
use for filling. 

Sweet Omelets 

Spread omelet with jam, jelly, honey, or 
crushed fresh fruit or berries ; adding to these 
omelets, in place of pepper or other additions, 
sugar. 

Rum Omelet 

Prepare French omelet without parsley ; roll 
together before removing from the chafing- 
dish ; pour over a wineglassf ul of Jamaica rum. 
Sprinkle omelet plentifully with powdered 
sugar. Take a long-handled mixing-spoon, fill 
with rum, and set fire to it. By dipping it into 
the remaining liquor the whole will become ig- 
nited. Baste the omelet as long as the rum 
bums. Keep the omelet well covered with 
powdered sugar. 



10 CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 

Scrambled Effss 

Put in the brazier 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Beat in a bowl 6 eggs; season with salt and 
pepper (white and cayenne). For each egg al- 
low 1 tablespoonful of milk, or milk and cream 
mixed ; have all stirred well together. As soon 
as butter begins to turn a light brown, intro- 
duce the eggs; stir in one direction with large 
silver soup spoon as soon as the eggs begin to 
set. A combination of ham may be added by' 
having minced ham ready and adding it first 
to the butter and cooking it a few minutes, then 
pouring over the eggs. Serve on toast. 

Welsh Rarebit 

The recipe given for Welsh rarebit, to be 
found under heading of ** Cheese Dishes,'^ will 
be found to be adaptable to a chafing-dish, and 
these are tried and true recipes. 

Creamed Toast 

Prepare buttered toast and trim the edges. 

Put butter into chafing-dish; add 1 pint rich 
oream, put in as many olives as the dish will 
hold; when saturated, take up carefully, put 
into covered tureen, and put in more toast, al- 
lowing one piece for each person, and a few 
extra pieces, when all the toast is prepared* 
Add another pint of cream ; bring to a boil and 
pour over the toast in the tureen. Serve in deep 



ra^* 



^Bshcft. U: 



y^ 



^th 



z«: 



■r*.: 



1 znsaminx. 



;^. 



T.f TTTiT I'S^r 



- 'II - I 






hot. Pctiziti 
until all 
ereun; or if 
milk. CoT-er a^ 






■a.rt-: ^*.' 









• ^ 



taUe5pooiif:il 5:-^ 
the beaten yolk c 
ness. Serve en 
shredded in vi;2: t 
tbe epicixre. 



err: ti: 






. _ » 






Broiled Chjcken 
For broiline criiir^ or oiier f »is, remove 
the under sectic-n tLat cc-nialLs tie wat^r. P^* 
butter into the brazier. Ea^e verj 5=12:1 7^-^ 
oUcken split; wipe, sl^ze, ard dry; mb i^ witii 
Balaioil, and spririie wi-Ji g^Jt. Have tatter 
m braaer very hot, and oi-y enoiigh to prevent 



12 CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 

the meat from burning; brown qnickly. When 
well browned on both sides, add 2 tablespoon- 
f uls of butter, and turn chicken in the brazier so 
that the meat is toward the bottom of the dish. 
Put pieces of butter in hollows made thus ; hav- 
ing the chicken inverted put on cover of chafing- 
dish and baste occasionally with the melted but- 
ter from the bottom of the dish. About twenty 
to thirty minutes should be sufficient to cook 
through thoroughly. Serve with Saratoga 
chips, which can be obtained freshly prepared 
at many shops. Serve with toast. 

Creamed Mushrooms 

Put into chafing-dish % cupful of butter. 
When hot put in 1 pound or quart of button 
mushrooms, or other mushrooms that have been 
washed and peeled. Simmer the mushrooms 
until tender; then add, stirring in carefully, 1 
pint rich cream; season with salt, pepper, and 
paprika. Eeduce the cream somewhat by sim- 
mering five or ten minutes longer. Serve on 
toast. 

Finnan Haddie 

Get a nice, firm, fresh-looking finnan haddie. 
Cut a good steak out of the centre of the fish, 
about five inches square. This should be suffi- 
cient for three people. Have water boiling in 
the brazier and put the fish into it. Boil for 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 13 



ten minutes ; drain, put into covered dish. Put 
into the chafing-dish ^ cupful of butter; add 
^2 teaspoonful pepper, a little paprika, and the 
juice of % lemon. Simmer for a few minutes 
until butter is hot; and pour into gravy bowl, 
and serve on the side. 

NUTS AND THEIR USES 

In recent years the uses of the nut have be- 
come many. Formerly nuts were served with 
the raisins as a second dessert, and invariably 
placed on the table with the demi-tasse of black 
coffee. 

As the next development in the way of table 
service came the salted nut-meats, put on as a 
side-dish the same as olives, etc. 

The latest development is the use of nuts for 
all manner of concoctions by themselves or 
mixed with other ingredients. 

From the days of early Plymouth, people in 
this country have been addicted to cakes and 
candies. Therefore we will turn to the later 
addition of nuts to the culinary achievements. 
Scientific analysis of the nut shows that it is 
most valuable as a food. It builds up muscle, 
and does not fatten. 

People suffering from indigestion, and other 
stomach troubles, get relief and nourishment by 
eating certain of the nuts, salted. 



14 CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 

Throughout the recipes will be found combi- 
nations with nut>meat. The following are a few 
of the every-day nuts thus utilized: almonds, 
beechnuts, Brazilian, butternuts, chestnuts, co- 
coanuts, filbert or hazel, hickory, English wal- 
nuts, black walnuts, the litchi or Chinese nut, 
peanuts, pine nuts, pistachio nuts. 

These nuts are so well known that it will be 
unnecessary to give a description of them, so 
I will proceed to the making of 

Nut Butter 

Shell the nuts, using only the nut-meat. 
Purchase a stone mortar and pestle, such as are 
used by the apothecary. (They will be found to 
answer for many other purposes.) Pound and 
grind the nuts with the pestle until they have 
become a cream. If of too thick a consistency, 
add a little water; then put into corked glass 
jars. In summer nut-butter is apt to become 
rancid, so I would not advise the making of too 
large quantities. The Brazil nuts are fre- 
quently added in part to the other nuts, being 
made into butter so as to enhance the flavor. 
Almond, Brazil, pecans, walnuts, and peanuts 
make the best "butter. 

When using almonds always remove the 
brown skin by steeping in hot water for a few 
minutes, then rub off with a coarse towel. 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 15 

Salted Nuts 

Have ready the nut-meat, sprinkle over with 
very fine salt. Put in baking-pan in the oven, 
and keep shaking the pan, so that the nuts will 
all become slightly crisp and brown. 

Sugared Nuts 

Use powdered sugar instead of salt, 

Marron GIac6 

The imported product is best, although the 
native chestnut can be used, but is so much 
smaller. 

Parboil the chestnuts; shell, and put into 
boiling lightly salted water until tender, but 
not too soft, as they will fall in pieces. Make a 
syrup of 1 pound of sugar and ^ pint water, 
stirring with wooden spoon. Drain and care- 
fully dry the nuts, then put into the syrup. 
When it comes to a boil, simmer until the nuts 
take on a dark brown color and seem trans- 
parent. Put into jars and cover with the syrup, 
or put on glazed paper. These will keep for 

some time. 

Cocoanut 

The cocoanut is used as an ingredient, and 
used in the grated state. 

Chestnuts 

The preparation of chestnuts will be found 
under the head of Vegetables. 



16 CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 

Glazed Nuts 

Use copper kettle and make a syrup of 1 
pound of granulated sugar and V^ cupful of 
water. Boil, while stirring, until it will harden 
when dropped into cold water. Remove from 
the fire, being careful to keep the syrup amber- 
colored. Use candy-dipper ; dip each nut in the 
syrup; take out, using a spoon in conjunction 
with the dipper, and put on glazed paper or 
marble slab. Flavor the syrup, if desired, after 
removing from fire with the juice of ^ a lemon 
or less. Fruit is glazed in the same way. 

Nut Croquettes or Cutlets 

A Vegetarian Dish 

Mix together 1 cupful each of chopped nut- 
meat and bread crumbs; season with salt and 
pepper and a little lemon juice. Mix in 1 egg 
so as to make it hold together; form into cro- 
quettes or cutlets; dip in beaten eggj then in 
bread crumbs, and fry in hot fat. Drain, and 
serve with tomato or cream sauce, and if made 
into cutlets use a crab-claw, or wooden skewer, 
and cover with the regulation paper ruffle. 

Nut Souffle 

Take 1 pint of the milk of the cocoanut, or use 
cow's milk, and put on to boil; add 1 cupful of 
bread crumbs ; stir, and when thoroughly heated, 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES )7 

add 1 cupful of chopped nut-meat. Season with 
salt and pepper; add i/^ cupful of whipped 
cream and the lightly beaten whites of 3 eggs. 
Butter a baking-dish ; pour in the mixture, and 
bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. Serve 
immediately, as, in case of all souffles, it will 
fall if allowed to stand. 

Nuts are served with salad, mixed with force- 
meat, used in sauces, anpl made into sandwiches ; 
and will be found under such recipes. 



CARVING 

Om of the first steps in learning to oarve is 
to know the parts of the joint or fowl upon 
which one intends to operate. No one can carve 
well without practice and experience. In these 
days, when it is the custom to have meat and 
poultry carved before coming to the table, there 
is less opportunity than ever for one to learn. 
Good carving is really an accomplishment. It 
is unreasonable to expect a young person who 
sits at the table where the head of the family 
does all of the carving, to become proficient in 
the art from mere observation. How often the 
excuse that *' I never had to do it, father al- 
ways carved *' is heard. And nothing is more, 
pitiable than to see such a one suddenly called 
upon to officiate on some occasion. The oppor- 
tunity to carve ought not only to be accorded to 
each member of the family, but the work should 
be insisted upon. 

One must get by study of some sort an idea of 
the location of the bones, gristle, and joints in 
meat and poultry. One who prepares a fowl, 
or who cuts up chicken for fricassee, should be 
able to mentally locate every bone and joint. 

t8 



CARVING 19 



A sharp knife, a platter sufficiently large, a 
carving napkin, and a tender joint or bird will 
help much toward snccessful execution. No- 
where do ease and grace become so enviable as 
in carving a difficult joint or a refractory fowl. 
There must be no spilling of crumbs or splash- 
ing of gravy. Aim to divide the meat equally. 
Ask each guest his or her preference, and 
gratify it. Be not lavish in helping the guests. 
Estimate carefully the number, and make the 
dish go round easily. Do not give one all of the 
meat, and another all of the bone. See that a 
young or bashful person is provided with por- 
tions that are easy to manage. How often we 
have seen such unable to eat what is served on 
account of the difficulty in cutting it up. Not 
only should the piece be carved economically, 
but the renmant should be left in good shape. 
As the slices are carved, place them upon the 
platter and do not allow them to hang over the 
edge to drip upon the cloth. 

Learn to carve sitting as well as standing; 
both positions are allowed. If the cook has not 
removed all of the skewers or strings before the 
dish was brought in, do this first. 

The fork is the essential in good carving, 
after the sharp knife. Use the fork to hold the 
meat firmly. Hold the fork firmly but grace- 
fully. If the joint or bird is tough, do not show 



20 CARVING 



that you know it. Just there is where your 
skill will be most deeply appreciated by the 
hostess. 

If there are two sorts of meat, carve first 
what you think will be sufficient from both ; then, 
and not till then, ask the guests their choice. 

While it has been suggested that one observe 
how others carve, it is hardly necessary to 
dwell upon the rudeness of staring at the 
carver. 

If the carver is having a hard time of it, the 
tactful hostess will distract the attention of the 
guests from his efforts. 

Rib Roast 

Have the backbone to the right, and place the 
fork firmly in the middle. Eun the knife along 
close to the backbone, cutting down to the ribs. 
Then cut away the gristly cord so as to enable 
you to slice. Begin on the side nearest to you, 
and see that the slices cut parallel to the ribs 
are thin and of equal thickness. After slicing 
them down to the ribs, separate them from the 
bone by running the knife under. If the meat 
has all of the bone removed, and is rolled and 
skewered, place it on the dish on the end, and 
cut thin slices from the top horizontally. It 
may be easier to place it upon the side and 
carve thin slices from the end nearest to you. 



Rolled RoMt 



CARVING 2J 



Sirloin Roast 

Place the backbone to the right. Several thin 
and uniform slices are cut parallel to the ribs, 
and to them. Separate them from the back- 
bone by cutting along it, and also at the end of 
the flank. Then turn the roast over and carve 
the tenderloin, cutting it in slices across the 
grain. If the roast is larger than needed, the 
tenderloin may be left and served cold at an- 
other meal. For those who like fat, a few slices 
of the crisp fat from the flank-end may be 
served. Not everyone cares for this fat, so 
their preference must be consulted before serv- 
ing it. 

Beefsteak 

Do not serve the bone if it is cooked with the 
steak. Many cut out the bone before cooking, 
and claim that it is better and more economical 
to do so. Tough gristle and membrane, as well 
as the flank, should also be cut off before cook- 
ing. These can be cooked with great saving in 
some other ways. The tenderloin should be 
placed next to the carver. Each person should 
receive a part of the tenderloin ; this is accom- 
plished by cutting it in narrow strips, after 
it has been removed by cutting close to the 
bone. The meat on the other side of the bone 
is removed in the same way, and is also cut 
into narrow strips. Serve each person a piece 



22 CARVING 



of the tenderloin, the fat, and the upper part. 
The strips should be as wide as the steak is 
thick. Do not serve too liberally the first time. 
Leave enough for a second helping to those who 
may desire more. 

Bound and rump steaks are cut in narrow 
strips always across the grain. This makes it 
easy for the guests to cut them with the grain 
with their usually less sharp knives. 

Corned Beef 

Corned beef is cut in thin slices. Lay aside 
the outside slice, as it is often dry and hard. If 
the piece of beef is narrow, the slices will ap- 
pear wider if they are cut obliquely. They 
should be quite thin, and cut across the grain. 
Serve each person a piece of fat and a piece of 
lean. 

Leer of Mutton 

Carve thin slices across the middle, cutting 
quite down to the bone. Cut the slices toward 
the thick part of the leg, making them of me- 
dium thickness; then separate them from the 
bone. Slice from the opposite side of the bone 
in the same way. 

Tonsue 

Cut tongue in round slices crossways of the 
tongue. Some caivers slice the tip of the tongue 
lengthwise, as that part is considered more deli- 



Loin of Mutton 



Shoulder of Mutton 



CARVING 23 

cate when so cut. The best slices are in the 
middle. Serve one of these choice parts to each 
gaest along with the other parts. Do not carve 
the root of the tongue. The slices must be as 
thin and wafer-like as possible. 

Ham 

This may be carved in the same way as mut- 
toii> except that the slices are very thin. 

Fore-Quarter of Lamb 

First separate the shoulder-part from the 
breast and ribs. Then the ribs are separated 
from one another. The platter must be large 
enough to accommodate this division. If it 
is not, another platter should be so placed 
that the carver may place the breast portion 
upon it until he is ready for it. The diflScult 
part is the separation of the shoulder-joint. 
The carver's work will be much simplified by 
having the butcher remove the shoulder-blade 
and the bone of the leg. Each person should 
receive a rib, and either a piece of the breast or 
of the leg, according to preference. 

Loin of Veal 

The ribs are first to be divided, beginning at 
the smaller end. Carve the kidney in slices, and 
serve a portion of it to each guest, as far as 
possible. Of course, the butcher has been di- 
rected to divide the meat at the joints of the 



24 CARVING 



backbone. This makes carving a very simple 
matter. But if this has not been done, the 
carver must cut slices parallel to the backbone. 

Fillet of Veal 

Slice from the top downward, serving stuflSng 

to each. 

Breast of Veal 

This divides, naturally and very distinctly, 
into the brisket and the ribs. The line of sepa- 
ration is very marked. It is first cut along that 
line. The brisket, which has been placed near- 
est to the carver, is sliced. Then the ribs are 
divided, and the sweetbread is sliced. Serve 
a portion of the rib, the brisket, an^^ the sweet- 
bread to each person. 

Haunch of Venison 

The haunch is the hind-quarter. ThtJ loin is 
placed nearest to the carver. The first step is 
to separate the loin from the leg. This is quite 
difficult, if the bones have not been removed. 
The leg is carved in the same way as a leg of 
mutton, cutting slices from the middle, quite 
down to the bone. The loin is then carved by 
separating the ribs and slicing the flank. 

Saddle of Mutton 

This is sliced on both sides of the backbone, 
beginning at the tail, which is placed to the left 
of the carver. The fork is firmly placed in the 



Chicken or Turkej 



CARVING 25 



centre of the back, and the slices are cut very 
long. If the slices are too long to be served, 
they should be cut in two crosswise. The ten- 
derloin and the kidney fat under the ribs are 
choice parts. These are to be sliced, and a por- 
tion served to each person. 

Sucklns Pis 

If the head has not been separated in the 
kitchen, which is a safe thing to do, as it is re- 
pulsive to a great many people, it is the first 
step in the carving to remove it. The legs are 
then separated by a circular sweep of the knife. 
Finally the ribs are separated. Serve a small 
portion of stuffing to each guest. The head is 
placed to the left when the platter is brought on. 

Turkey or Chicken 

The dish is to be placed so that the breast is 
to the left of the carver. Place the carving 
fork deeply at the small end of the breastbone. 
This is important so as to completely control the 
work of the knife. The leg upon the far side 
is first removed by cutting around the joint, 
and then twisting the bone from the socket with 
the knife. Do not remove the fork to accom- 
plish this. Bemove the wing on the same side 
in the same way. By slightly tipping the bird 
away from him, the carver can easily reach the 
leg and wing on the side nearest to him, and re- 



26 CARVING 



move them in the same mamier. Thin slices are 
then cut from the sides of the breast. Then the 
wishbone is removed by making an incision in 
the breast. Then cut through the ribs from 
neck to tail, so as to pass in a straight line 
through the leg socket. Do this on both sided ; 
then quickly turn the knife, and so separate the 
front from the back of the carcass along the 
lines of the last cuts. Now, for the first time 
withdraw the fork, and divide the thigh from 
the drumstick. The last step is to divide the 
back at the joint of the second rib. Serve to 
each person a piece of dark and a piece of light 
meat, unless a preference for one sort is ex- 
pressed. If the turkey is large, and the family 
small, carve only one side of it. Serve stuflSng 
to each guest. 

Duck and Goose 

These are carved alike. Place the bird with 
the breast to the left of the carver. Remove the 
leg and the wing from the remote side. Then 
remove each from the near side. Cut slices 
from the sides of the breast. This is much 
more difficult to do in the case of ducks and 
geese, than with turkey or chicken. Four fine 
cuts are all that a skilful carver may hope to 
get. Make an incision to give free access to 
the stuffing. Only the breast of wild duck is 



Fillet Coolced and Larded 



Saddle of Mutton 



CARVING 27 



carved. The remainder of the fowl is left to be 
served next day as a timbale or a sahni. 

Broiled Chicken 

As this is split down the back before broil- 
ing, the carver simply cuts through the breast- 
bone to divide the chicken into halves. Then 
each of these halves is divided crosswise, 
making quarters. 

Boned Chicken 

Fix the fork firmly into the breast portion, 
and cut slices crosswise, beginning at the neck. 

Woodcock, Snip'^, and Plover 

These require no carving, as a whole bird is 
served to each guest. 

Pheasant* Quail, and Partridge 

Split into halves lengthwise, and serve one 
part to each guest. 

Rabbits and Hares 

When cooked whole, the fork is placed in the 
middle of the back. Remove the hind leg and 
the shoulder first from the remote side; then, 
tilting the rabbit, remove those from the near 
side. Cut the back into three pieces. Remove 
the fork, and separate the hind leg into two 
parts at the joint. The best portions of the 
rabbit are the saddle and the thigh parts of the 



28 CARVING 



hind leg. If the hare is a Belgian, it is large 
enough to permit of the saddle being cut 
lengthwise into two parts. 

Fish 

A silver knife and fork are provided for serv- 
ing fish, as steel spoils the flavor of the flesh. 
If the fish is boiled or baked, first remove the 
head. Then cut down the backbone as nearly 
as possible, gently prying the flesh away from 
it. Cut the top half into slices across the body ; 
then turn the backbone off the lower half, placing 
it on one side of the platter. Then cut the under 
half in slices across the fish. By separating the 
flesh from the backbone by a lengthwise cut, 
there is less danger either of serving so many 
bones or of mashing the flesh. 

Planked or Broiled Fish 

In this case the fish is to be cut crosswise, 
quite through the joints of the backbone. This 
must be performed as quickly as possible, as 
delay causes much of the good flavor to be lost. 
Care must be taken to strike the joints as ex- 
actly as possible, and not to break the flesh* 



BEVERAGES 

Breakfast Coffee 

Put freshly ground coflFee into the strainer in 
the proportion of 1 cupfnl to a quart of boiling 
water. Add the boiling water gradually. Pour 
off into a hot pitcher and back again to the 
strainer, repeating until of the desired strength. 
Then pour into hot cups. 

Cafi au Lait 

Make some strong, clear coffee. Pour it into 
the cup with an equal quantity of boiling milk, 
and sweeten according to taste. This is the 
coffee which is served in France for breakfast, 
and it is both palatable and nutritious. 

After-Dinner or Black Coffee 

This is the coffee which is handed round in 
small cups after dessert in France. It is 
sweetened, but neither milk nor cream is added. 
It should be made exceedingly strong, and will 
be found useful in warding off the somnolency 
which is often the first result of a good dinner. 
It should be made in the same way as breakfast 
coffee^ allowing a tablespoonful finely ground 

29 



30 BEVERAGES 

coffee for each cup. Serve in demi-tasse or 
small coffee-cups. 

Iced Coffee 

Set cafe au lait aside until cool. Then pour 

into tumblers half -filled with ice, and sugar to 

taste. 

Arabian Coffee 

All travellers agree in their account of the 
delicacy and delicious flavor of the coffee used 
in the East. It is prepared thus : Pound thor- 
oughly in a mortar some coffee-berries that 
have been freshly and quickly roasted. Pass 
them through a fine sieve two or three times, 
until at last you have a brown flour. Mix 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of this flour and a small piece of cin- 
namon with 2 cupfuls of water. Boil it gently, 
then draw it back for a moment, and repeat 
this several times, until a cream rises to the 
top ; then add half a cupful more boiling water 
and it is ready to serve. Neither sugar nor 
milk is required. 

Vegetarian Coffee 

1 teaspoonful each of whole allspice, cinna- 
mon, cloves, crushed nutmeg, blade mace, quar- 
ter of bay leaf ; steep in 1 quart of water half 
an hour; strain in hot pot, adding 1 lump of 
sugar for each guest. A pitcher of hot cream 
is at hand for the hostess to dress the '^ coffee '' 



BEVERAGES 31 

before the latter is passed. Bose-disks are 
dropped into the beverage. 

Tea (Hot) 

Have the kettle freshly boiling, so that the 
water may not taste flat* Pour the water on 
the dry leaves and draw off within three min- 
utes, otherwise it will taste sharp and strong. 
Pour, clear, into hot cups, adding afterwards 
sugar and cream as desired. 

Tea (Cold) 

A few minutes after pouring on the leaves 

strain off the liquid, and set away till cold. 

Pour later into glasses half-filled with cracked 

ice, adding slice of lemon and granulated sugar 

to taste. 

Tchai (Russian) 

Black Japan tea is brewed in a brass or cop- 
per, samovar, poured into beautifully decorated 
cups, and served at the end of the meal. It 
must be very strong, and several cups of tea 
are consumed by the native Bussian. Cream 
is not used, but lumps of sugar are rubbed on 
lemon, dipped in the tea, and nibbled as a 

sweet. 

Russian Tea 

Brew tea according to direction, and have 
the strength according to taste. Pour into 
long thiQ glasses ; put a silver spoon first into 



32 BEVERAGES 

the glass to prevent it breaking; put in slices 
of lemon, and pour over the lump of sugar 
about a tablespoonful of best rum — or put in 
tea and sweeten. No milk or cream. 

June Tea Punch 

Brew a strong tea; place in fancy pot; fill 
thin glasses with shaved ice ; use a teaspoonful 
powdered sugar, 2 maraschino cherries, with 
slice of lime on top ; pour hot tea over the whole 
and serve each glass on a lace-paper doily, 
placed on dainty china plates. This is a sooth- 
ing outdoor refreshment for a hot afternoon. 

Cocoa 

Made in the same way as chocolate. 

Cocoa Shells 

Stir into 9 quart of boiling water 2 ounces 

of cocoa shells previously wet with cold water. 

Boil steadily for an hour and a half; then 

strain, stir in 1 quart of fresh milk, and serve 

almost at the scalding point. Sweeten to suit 

taste. 

Chocolate 

With cold water rub 6 tablespoonfuls of choc- 
olate to a thin, smooth paste; upon this pour 
gradually 2 cupfuls of hot water; put in a 
saucepan and bring quickly to a boil. After 
cooking for five minutes add 2 cupfuls of hot 



BEVERAGES 33 

milk, and boil for another ten minutes. 

Sweeten to taste, and add whipped cream on 

top. 

Hot Beef Tea 

Break an egg, and beat it well in the bottom 
of a cup ; add a portion of sherry and 1 spoon- 
ful of beef tea. Fill with boiling water, stir 
briskly, and season to the taste. 

Milk Shake 

Take 1 teaspoonful of powdered sugar and 
1 egg ; add ice, and fill shaker with milk. Turn 
over, shake thoroughly, and serve with straws 
and nutmeg on the side. 

Milk and Seltzer 

Fill a large soda-glass with half milk and 

half seltzer. 

Koumiss 

In 1 gill of warmed milk dissolve Vs of a 
yeast cake, and add 2 teaspoonfuls of granu- 
lated sugar. Have a beer bottle with patent 
fastener already scalded — or use an ordinary 
bottle, soaking the cork for half an hour to 
make it swell. Fill this bottle three-quarters 
full with fresh milk, blood-warm ; then pour in 
the yeast mixture. After shaking briskly for 
two minutes cork tightly. The common cork 
must be wired down. Leave the bottle in the 
warm kitchen until the contents commence to 



34 BEVERAGES 

foam and " work *' six hours or so. Then 
place in the ice chest until used. 

Bottled Seidiitz Water 

Take a sufficient number of soda-water 
bottles, and fill them with clear water ; then add 
the following ingredients, and cork and wire 
the bottles immediately : 2 drachms of Bochelle 
salts, 35 grains of bicarbonate of soda, and 11 
drops of sulphuric acid. 

Root Beer 

For good, old-fashioned root beer gather to- 
gether sarsaparilla, dandelion, yellow dock, 
hops, and burdock, if possible; other ingredi- 
ents often added are wild cherry bark, birch 
bark, elecampane, and aromatic spikenard. 

After washing thoroughly and bruising the 
roots, take 2 gallons of water to 1 ounce each 
of the ingredients. Putting the roots in the 
cold water, set over the fire so that all the es- 
sences and flavors will be drawn out by the 
heating. Steep for an hour and a half and then 
strain; add 1 pound of sugar and 25 drops of 
oil of sassafras or spruce, and when cool 
enough, so as not to kill the yeast, add 6 or 8 
tablespoonfuls to the above quantity of water, 
or 1 or 2 dry yeast cakes dissolved in a little 
tepid water. 

After stirring the yeast in well, set the brew 



BEVERAGES 35 

away in an earthen jar and allow some honrs 
for it to work. After three or four hours it 
may be put in bottles, or kept in a jar for im- 
mediate use. 

Cider 

For a large quantity of cider, fine, juicy 
apples must be mashed and pressed, and a 
small Bhine-wine cask filled with the juice. 
Place the cask on a skid in a cool room, and 
fermentation will soon commence, taking about 
a fortnight to the process ; all stuffs coming to 
the surface during this period should be re- 
moved with a piece of clear linen. After fer- 
mentation is over, fill the cask with water, bung 
carefully, and leave in the cellar for six months ; 
then decant into another cask; leave for two 
months longer, and fill into bottles. 

Small quantities of cider may be made with 
less trouble. Peel the apples, and grate on a 
grater; strain the juice through cloth, pour 
into stone jars, and add roasted apples to 
hasten fermentation. After a couple of days 
a skin appearing on the juice shows that fer- 
mentation is complete ; remove this skin, bottle 
the cider, and keep in a cool place. 

Limeade 

Put in a large glass the juice of 3 limes and 
1 tablespoonful of sugar. Fill half full of 



36 BEVERAGES 

shaved ice, and then fill with water ; shake thor- 
oughly and ornament with fruit. Serve with 
straw. 

Orangeade 

Make a syrup by boiling 6 ounces of loaf 
sugar in half a pint of water until the sugar is 
dissolved. Pour it over the thin yellow rinds 
of 2 small oranges, and let them infuse for two 
or three hours. Strain the juice of 6 oranges 
into a glass jug. Add the flavored syrup, first 
passing it through a jelly-bag, and a pint and 
a half of cold water. Drink the orangeade 
cold. A glassful of calf *s-foot stock is an im- 
provement. Time, two or three hours to infuse 
the rinds. Sufficient for two pints and a half. 

Oranffeade (at AH Seasons) 
Pour a pint of brandy, or rectified spirits of 
wine, over the thin rind and strained juice of 
2 oranges. Cover the infusion closely, and 
leave in a warm place for six weeks, shaking it 
every day. At the end of that time filter it 
through muslin, and put it into small bottles. 
Cork these closely, and store them until wanted. 
When orangeade is required, it is only neces- 
sary to dissolve a small lump of sugar in half 
a pint of spring water, and add a dessertspoon- 
ful of the orange-flavored spirit. Sufficient for 
a pint of orangeade. 



BEVERAGES 37 

Pineapple Water (a Refreshine Summer 

Beveraee) 

Take a moderate-sized pineapple; pare and 

slice it, and pound it to a pulp in a mortar. Put 

this into a bowl with the strained juice of a 

large fresh lemon, and pour over it a pint of 

boiling syrup made in the proportion of 1 

pound of sugar to a pint of water. Cover the 

jug which contains the liquid, and leave it in 

a cool place for two hours or more. Strain 

through a napkin, put 2 pints of cold spring 

water with it, and serve. Sufficient for three 

pints of pineapple water. 

Ginser Beer 

To 11 gallons of water put 10 pounds of 
loaf sugar, half a pound of bruised ginger, 
the rinds of 4 lemons, and the whites of 4 eggs 
beaten into a strong froth ; mix them all well to- 
gether while cold, and put the preparation into 
a copper. As soon as it boils skim it well, and 
then pour it into a cooler, and put to it 2 ounces 
of cream of tartar and the inside of 6 lemons 
sliced and the pips taken out. When it is 
nearly cold, put into a cloth 4 tablespoonfuls of 
yeast, and pour the liquor in upon it. When 
done working bung it up, and let it stand a fort- 
night; then bottle it off, and it will be fit for 
drinking in about ten days. 



38 BEVERAGES 

Ginffer Beer (Other Ways) 

Take a pound and a half of common brown 
sngar, or treacle, a gallon and a half of water, 
an ounce of ground ginger, and a lemon, if liked. 
Boil, and then add yeast 

2. Dissolve 4 ounces of candied ginger in 2^ 
gallons of boiling water ; add 2 pounds of sugar, 
1 ounce of powdered citric acid when nearly 
cold, and 2 tablespoonfuls of yeast. 

Saratoga Cooler 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar, juice of half a lemon, 1 bottle 
of ginger ale, and 2 small lumps of ice. After 
stirring well remove the ice. 

Plain Lemonade 

Put into a large bar-glass the juice of half 
a large lemon, 1^ tablespoonfuls of sugar, 2 
or 3 pieces of orange, and fill half full with 
shaved ice, the balance with water ; add a dash 
of raspberry syrup and fruits in season. Serve 
with straws. 

Soda Lemonade 

Into a large soda-glass put 1% tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, juice of half a lemon, 
1 bottle of plain soda water, and 2 or 3 small 
lumps of ice. After stirring thoroughly re* 
move the ice. 



BEVERAGES 39 

Seltzer lemonade is made in the same way, 
only using seltzer for the soda water. 

Ess Lemonade 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 large tablespoon- 
fnl of pulverized white sugar, juice of half a 
lemon, 1 fresh egg, 2 or 3 small lumps of ice, 
and shake well. Then strain into a soda-water 
glass and fill with soda water or seltzer, gar- 
nishing with berries. 

Orgeat Lemonade 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar, % wineglassful of orgeat 
syrup, the juice of half a lemon, and fill one- 
third full of ice and balance with water. After 
shaking thoroughly, add berries in season^ and 
serve with straws. 

Fine Lemonade for Parties 

Bub the rinds of 8 lemons on a portion of 
2 pounds of loaf sugar until all the oil is ab- 
sorbed, and put it with the, remainder of the 
sugar into a jug; add the juice of 1 dozen 
lemons (not the pips), and pour over this 1 gal- 
lon of boiling water. After the sugar is dis- 
solved, strain through a piece of muslin, and 
cool. The lemonade may be greatly improved 
by beating up with it the whites of 4 eggs. This 
recipe allows for 1 gallon. 



40 BEVERAGES 

Soda Nectar 

Strain the juice of 1 lemon and add it to % 
tumblerful of water, sweetening with powdered 
sugar to taste. Stir in 2 or 3 small lumps of 
ice to cool, and mix well. Then add half small 
teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, pour into a 
large soda-glass, and drink while effervescing. 

Nectar for Dos-Days 

Put 1 lemon ice into a large goblet and pour 
upon it 1 bottle of plain soda. A very cool and 
refreshing beverage. 

Soda Cocktail 

Put into large soda-glass 1 teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar, 2 dashes of Angostura bitters, 
and 3 or 4 small lumps of ice. Then pour in 1 
bottle of plain soda, stir thoroughly, and re- 
move the ice. 

Horse^s Neck 

Into a large tumbler put the entire peel of a 
lemon cut in circular style, plenty of ice, and a 
bottle of ginger ale. 

Oranee Sherbet 

Peel half a dozen ripe, sweet oranges; cut 
4 of them in pieces, and separate from the 
white skin and seeds; squeeze the other two. 

Stir with i/4 pound of sugar over a slow fire 
till it boils; then cool, thin with fresh water, 



BEVERAGES 4S 

and add the pieces of orange, several drops of 
orange-flower essence, and lumps of ice. 

Blackberry Wine 

To make an excellent strong blackberry wine, 
proceed as follows: Take 45 quarts of ripe 
blackberries well picked and pressed, and mix 
them with 10 pounds of good honey and 26 
pounds of strong, bright, moist sugar. Boil 
with 12 gallons of soft water and the whites 
of 12 eggs well beaten, till the liquor is reduced 
to 10 gallons, skimming it till it is perfectly 
clear. Strain the liquor into a tub, and let it 
stand till the following day ; then pour it clear 
of the lees and boil it again for three-quarters 
of an hour, adding the lees, filtered twice, and 
2 ounces of isinglass dissolved in a quart of 
water. Skim well, and put in 2 ounces of Ja- 
maica pepper, 2 ounces of cloves, and 2 ounces 
of best ginger, all bruised and tied loosely in a 
piece of muslin. Put into your cooler the thin 
rinds of 6 Seville oranges and a pint of lemon 
juice; strain the liquor upon them, stir well, 
and when cool enough work it with a pint of 
fresh yeast stirred well into a gallon of the 
liquor. Cover close, and let it work for four 
or five days, removing the top scum and stir- 
ring twice daily; then strain, and filter it into 
the cask ; put in the bung tightly, keep the cask 



42 BEVERAGES 

well filled up, and when it has ceased ferment- 
ingy let a day elapse, and add 2 quarts of 
French brandy and an ounce and a half of ism- 
glass dissolved in a little water and mixed, with 
a gallon of the wine, ten minutes, an ounce of 
bitter almonds blanched and slit, and 6 ounces 
of sugar-candy broken small. Secure the bung, 
paste strong white paper or coarse linen over 
it, and place plenty of sand over all, wetted a 
little. Keep the wine in a cool cellar for two 
years ; then bottle it — ^f or it is certain to be fine 
— ^by means of the filterings, which are quite 
necessary to this as well as to all raspberry 
and elder wine. Seal the corks, and keep it in 
the bottles before using for two years. If al- 
lowed to lie for a longer time it will still im- 
prove, and will be found a beautiful wine. 

Currant Wine 

Bruise 8 gallons of currants with 1 quart of 
raspberries. Press out the juice, and to the 
residuum, after pressure, add 11 gallons of cold 
water. Add 2 pounds of beetroot sliced as thin 
as possible to give color, and let them infuse, 
with frequent mixture, for twelve hours; then 
press out the liquor as before, and add it to the 
juice. Next dissolve 20 pounds of raw sugar 
in the mixed liquor, and 3 ounces of red tartar 
in fine powder. In some hours the fermenta- 



BEVERAGES 43 

tion will commence, which is to be managed as 
in the case of gooseberry wine. When the fer- 
mentation is completely over, add 1 gallon of 
brandy; let the wine stand for a week, then 
rack off, and let it stand for two months. It 
may now be finally racked off, bunged up in the 
cask, and set by in a cool cellar for as many 
years as may be required to ameliorate it. 

Cowslip Wine 

Allow 3 pounds of loaf sugar, the rind of an 
orange and a lemon, and the strained juice of 
a lemon to every gallon of water. Boil the 
sugar and water together for half an hour. 
Skim it carefully, then pour it over the rind and 
juice. Let it stand until new-milk warm; add 
4 quarts of cowslip pips or flowers, and to every 
6 quarts of liquid put 3 large tablespoonfuls 
of fresh yeast, spread on toast. On the follow- 
ing day put the wine into a cask, which must 
be closely stopped. It will be fit to bottle or 
drink from the cask in seven weeks. Twenty- 
four or forty-eight hours to ferment; seven 
weeks to remain in the cask. 

May Wine 

Throw into a punch-bowl a bottle of hock; 
slice into that a lemon^ an orange, or add a few 
strawberries, a glass of sherry, and sufficient 
crushed white sugar to sweeten. Now put in 



44 BEVERAGES 

12 little sprays of leaves of the sweet woodruff, 
and, if in bloom, some of the blossoms. Let 
them steep an hour, and serve out with a ladle. 
Sweet-scented flowers are often thrown in, and 
must float on the top ; and leaves of sweet herbs 
and of other fragrant plants, such as the lemqn- 
plant and lavender, may be added. May wine 
may be iced. 

Elderberry Wine 

The elderberry is well suited to the produc- 
tion of wine. The juice contains a considerable 
quantity of the principle necessary for a vigor- 
ous fermentation, and its beautiful color im- 
parts a rich tint to the wine made from it. It 
is, however, deficient in sweetness, and sugar 
must be added to it. The following is an ap- 
proved recipe: Take 1 gallon of ripe elder- 
berries and 1 quart of damsons or sloes for 
every 2 gallons of wine to be made. Boil the 
elderberries in about half the quantity of water 
till they burst, breaking them frequently with a 
stick. Strain the liquor, and return it to the 
copper. To produce 18 gallons of wine, 20 gal- 
lons of this liquor are required, and for what- 
ever quantity the liquor falls short of this, 
water must be added to make it up. Boil this, 
along with 56 pounds of coarse, moist sugar, 
for half an hour, and it is to be fermented in 
the usual manner when suflBciently cooled, and 



BEVERAGES 45 

then it is to be tuimed or put into the cask. Put 
now into a muslin bag a pound and a half of 
ginger bruised, a pound of allspice, 2 ounces of 
cinnamon, and 4 or 6 ounces of hops ; suspend 
the bag with the spice in the cask by a string 
not long enough to let it touch the bottom; let 
the liquor work in the cask for a fortnight, and 
fill up in the usual way. The wine will be fit 
to tap in two months, and is not improved by 
keeping, like many other wines. Elderberries 
alone may be used. 

Cura^oa 

Take a quarter of a pound of the thin rind of 
Seville oranges, and pour over it a pint of boil- 
ing water; when cool, add 2 quarts of brandy 
or rectified spirits of wine, and let it remain 
for ten or twelve days, stirring it every day. 
Make a clarified syrup of 2 pounds of finely 
sifted sugar and 1 pint of water ; add this to the 
brandy, etc. Line a funnel with a piece of mus- 
lin, and that with chemists ' filtering paper ; let 
the liquid pass through two or three times tUl 
it is quite bright. This will require a little 
patience. Put it into small bottles, and cork it 
closely. Time, twelve days. Sufficient for a 
little more than three quarts of curagoa. 
Curagoa imparts an agreeable flavor to cream 
and to punch, and is an excellent liquor. 



46 BEVERAGES 

Ginger Cordial 

Pick 2 pounds of white or black currants. 
Bruise them slightly, and mix with them 1^ 
ounces of ground ginger. Pour over them 1 
quart of good whiskey or brandy, and let them 
stand for two days. Strain off the liquid; add 
1 pound of loaf sugar boiled to a syrup with a 
small teacupful of water. Bottle, and cork 
closely for use. Sufficient for three pints of 
cordial. 

Cherry Brandy (to be Made in July or 

August) 

The morello cherry is generally used for this 

purpose, on account of its peculiar acidity. It 

ripens later than other cherries, and is more 

expensive. It is seldom used as a dessert fruit ; 

nevertheless, if allowed to hang until fully ripe, 

it is very refreshing and agreeable to many 

palates. The cherries for brandy should be 

gathered in dry weather, and must be used 

when fresh. They ought not to be over-ripe. 

Wipe each one with a soft cloth, and cut the 

stalks, leaving them about half an inch in 

length. A little more than half fill wide-necked 

bottles such as are used for bottling fruit. 

Allow 3 oxmces of pounded sugar with each 

pound of fruit, which must be placed in with it. 

Fill the bottles with the best French brandy. 

Do not make the mistake of supposing that the 



BEVERAGES 47 

fruit and sugar will make bad spirit pass for 
good. Cork the bottles securely, and seal over 
the top. The cherries may be used in a month, 
but will be better in two. Three or four cloves 
put in the bottle are by many considered an im- 
provement. 

Apricot Brandy 

To every pound of fruit, take 1 pound of loaf 
sugar and a wineglassful of water. Put the 
apricots, which must be sound, but not quite 
ripe, into a preserving-pan with sufficient water 
to cover them ; allow them to boil ; then simmer 
gently till tender. Remove the skins. Clarify 
and boil the sugar, and pour it over the fruit. 
Let it remain twenty-four hours. Then put the 
apricots into glasses, and fill them up with 
syrup and brandy, half and half, and keep them 
well corked and the tops of the corks securely 
sealed. They must be kept twelve months 
before using. They should be prepared in 
July. Time to simmer the apricots, about one 
hour. 

Cherry Wine 

Take ripe, sweet cherries; stem them, wash, 
and mash with wooden mallet. Press out the 
juice, and to each quart add % pound of granu- 
lated sugar and 1 cupful of water. After stir- 
ring well pour into a crock, cover closely with 
cheesecloth, and leave for one month to fer- 



/ 



48 BEVERAGES 

ment. When this has ceased, rack off and put 
in bottles. 

Dandelion Wine 

Get 4 quarts of the yellow petals of the dan- 
delion, and pour over them into a tub 1 gallon 
of warm water that has previously been boiled. 
Stir it well round and cover with a blanket ; to 
stand three days, during which time it should 
be stirred frequently. Strain off the flowers 
from the liquid, and boil it for half an hour with 
the rind of a lemon, the rind of an orange, a 
little ginger, and 3^/^ pounds of lump sugar to 
each gallon; add the sugar and lemon, from 
which the rinds were removed, in slices to the 
boiling liquor, and when cool ferment with 
yeast on a toast. When it has stood a day or 
two put it into a cask, and in two months bottle. 
This wine is said to be specially adapted to ail 
persons suffering from liver complaints. 

Grape Wine (Home-made) 

Mash the grapes, stems and all, in an open 
cask, and cover it with cheesecloth, as the least 
particle falling into the contents may change it 
materially. 

After fermentation put through a fruit-press, 
turn the juice extracted into a clean, close cask, 
and leave on its side for one month, being care- 
ful not to disturb it and keeping it in a cool, 



BEVERAGES 49 

dark place. During fermentation, however, it 
should be stirred daily. 

It will now be ready to bottle, and the bottles 
should be laid away on their sides. 

Another Recipe 

Stem a small quantity of grapes and mash 

with a potato-beetle in a clean tub or crock. 

Strain through a bag to get as much juice as 

possible. To each quart of this add half a 

pound of white sugar, and put away to ferment 

in a big jar or clean cask, covering the bung- 

hole at the top with netting. After fermenting 

for three or four weeks it should be still and 

clear. Then bottle, pouring off the lees with 

care. 

Grape Juice 

Put 6 quarts of grapes (stemmed) in 1 quart 
of water; bring slowly to a boil, and strain. 
Then return the juice to the fire, bring to a boil 
again, and, while scalding hot, bottle and seal. 

Rhubarb Wine 

In a double boiler boil the rhubarb, adding no 
water after washing it and cutting it into small 
pieces. Press out and measure all the juice; 
add an equal quantity of water, sweeten to the 
taste, and add brandy in the proportion of 1 
cupful to every gallon of the liquid. Bottle 
and seaL 




l~Whiak«y 
0-BaM'Ale 



t-<3ordial 



8-Cluet 
7-Oocdctyi 



lO-Beer Goblet 



4— Hot Whiskcty 
8-BlilneWiiM 
ll--GliMnpag]M 



MIXING AND SERVING DEINKS 

HINTS TO THE MIXER 

In serving fancy drinks, when fmit is used 
it should be added just before serving, if the 
beverage is strained; otherwise, after the mix- 
ing and straining. 

When preparing hot drinks, a silver spoon 
should be put into the glass, then a small quan- 
tity of boiling water added (this prevents the 
breaking of thin glasses and also heats them) ; 
for toddies the lumps of sugar are usually put 
in this first water to dissolve, then the other 
ingredients are added according to directions. 

Use shaved ice when no water or seltzer is 
to be added ; use cracked ice when it is. Always 
strain drinks, never serving ice in them. 

Sweetening or syrup takes the place of sugar 
in the mixing of drinks. 

When egg or milk-drinks requiring the addi- 
tion of wine or liquor are to be made, the wine 
or liquor should be added last and slowly, a 
little at a time, stirring the meanwhile. 

For the making of cold punches, the punch- 
bowl should be placed in cracked ice (a little 
rocksalt sprinkled over the ice will intensify 
the cold). 

Si 



S2 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

Bottles containing wines or liquors should 
always be kept in a reclining position in a mod- 
erate temperature; this keeps the corks moist 
and prevents evaporation. Wines, etc., that 
are to be served cold are chilled just in time to 
be served, the bottles being then placed in direct 
contact with the ice. When brought to the 
table a napkin is arranged around the bottle, 
and after being served it is again placed on ice 
in an ice-cooler placed to the left of the host. 

Syrups, bitters, and cordials should be kept 
cool, but not on the ice. 

Beer should always be served very cold, but 
malt ales at a moderate temperature. 

By referring to the article on ** Wines " the 
proper temperature for each particular wine 
and liquor will be found. 

Absinthe Cocktail 

Into a small bar-glass put 2 dashes of ani- 
sette, 1 dash of Angostura bitters, 1 pony-glass 
of absinthe. Pour about 1 wineglassful of 
water into the glass in a small stream out of 
an absinthe glass. After shaking thoroughly 
with ice, strain into a claret-glass. 

Brandy Coclctail 

Into a small bar-glass, one-third filled with 
shaved ice, put 3 or 4 dashes of gum syrup, 2 
dashes of bitters (Boker^s or Angostura), 1 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 53 

wineglassful of brandy, 1 or 2 dashes of 
curagoa. Shake up well and strain into a cock- 
tail glass. Before serving, twist small piece of 
lemon rind into the glass. 

Improved Brandy Cocktail 

Into ordinary bar-glass one-third full of 
shaved ice put 2 dashes Boker's (or Angostura) 
bitters, 3 dashes gum syrup, 2 dashes mara- 
schino, 1 dash absinthe, 1 small wineglassful of 
brandy. Shake thoroughly, and strain into a 
fancy cocktail glass, add small piece of twisted 
lemon peel, and serve. 

To improve the flavor moisten the edge of 
the cocktail glass with a piece of lemon. 

Bottle Cocktail 

For bottle of brandy cocktail use % brandy, 
Vs water, 1 pony-glass of Boker^s bitters, 1 
wineglass of gum syrup, ^^ pony-glass of 
curaQoa. 

Whiskey and gin cocktails, in bottles, may be 
similarly prepared by using those liquors in- 
stead of brandy. 

Champaene Cocktail 

Put 1 lump of sugar, 1 or 2 dashes Angostura 
bitters, and 1 small lump of ice in each goblet ; 
then fill with wine, stir, and serve with a thin 
piece of twisted lemon peel. Allow 1 pint of 
wine to every 3 goblets. 



5i MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

Coffee Cocktail 

Break a fresh egg into a large bar-glass ; add 
1 teaspoonful powdered white sugar, and pour 
in 1 large wineglassful of port wine and 1 pony 
of brandy; add 2 or 3 lumps of ioe. Shake 
thoroughly, and strain into a medium-sized bar- 
glass. Grate a little nutmeg on top, and serve. 
This beverage looks like coffee, but contains 
none. 

Gin Cocktail 

Fill a small bar-glass one-third full of shaved 
ice ; put in 3 or 4 dashes of gum syrup, 2 dashes 
of bitters (Boker's), 1 wineglassful of Holland 
gin, 1 or 2 dashes of curaQoa. Strain into a 
cocktail glass, and twist a small piece of lemon 
peel into it. 

Old Tom Gin Cocktail 

Use Old Tom in place of Holland gin, and 
prepare as directed for gin cocktail. > 

Improved Gin Cocktail 

Follow directions for improved brandy cock- 
tail, using Holland or Old Tom gin instead of 
brandy. 

Manhattan Cocktail 

Shake thoroughly the following : 2 dashes of 
curagoa or maraschino, 1 pony of rye whiskey, 
1 wineglassful of vermouth, 3 dashes of Boker's 
bitters, and 2 small lumps of ice. Then strain 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 56 

into a claret glass. Add a slice of lemon, and, 
to make very sweet, two dashes of gmn syrup. 

Martinez Cocktail 

Shake np well, and then strain into a large 
cocktail glass 1 dash of Boker's bitters, 2 dashes 
of maraschino, 1 pony of Old Tom gin, 1 wine- 
glassfnl of vermouth, 2 small lumps of ice. 
Add a slice of lemon, and gum syrup if desired, 
as in last recipe. 

Japanese Cocktail 

Fill small bar-glass one-third with ice; then 
add 1 tablespoonful of orgeat syrup, 2 dashes 
of Boker's bitters, 1 wineglassful of brandy, 
and 1 or 2 pieces of lemon peel. Stir thor- 
oughly, and strain into a cocktail glass. 

Jersey Cocktail 

Fill a large bar-glass containing several 
pieces of ice with cider ; add 2 dashes of bitters, 
and stir into this 1 teaspoonful of fine white 
sugar. After mixing thoroughly, take out the 
ice and serve. 

Morninff Glory Cocktail 

Into a medium-sized bar-glass put the follow- 
ing ingredients, and stir well : 3 dashes of gum 
syrup, 2 dashes of curagoa, 2 dashes of Boker's 
bitters, 1 dash of absinthe, 1 pony of brandy, 
1 pony of whiskey, 1 piece of twisted lemon 



56 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

peel, and 2 small pieces of ice. After removing 
the ice fill the glass with seltzer water or plain 
soda, add a little sugar, and stir. - 

Saratosa Cocktail 

Put a couple of small lumps of ice in a small 
bar-glass; add 2 dashes Angostura bitters, 1 
pony of brandy, 1 pony of whiskey, 1 pony of 
vermouth. After shaking well strain into a 
claret glass, and add small slice of lemon. 

Vermouth Cocktail 

Put into small bar-glass 2 dashes of Boker's 
bitters, 1 wineglassful of vermouth, and shake, 
with small lump of ice. Then strain in a cock- 
tail glass containing small slice of lemon. Add 
2 dashes of gum syrup for extra sweetness. 

Fancy Vermouth Cocktail 

Into small bar-glass put 2 dashes Angostura 
bitters, 2 dashes maraschino, and 1 wineglass- 
ful of vermouth. Add shaved ice to fill the 
glass one-quarter full; after shaking, strain 
into a cocktail glass; garnish with slice of 

lemon. 

Whiskey Cocktail 

Put into small bar-glass 3 or 4 dashes of gum 
syrup, 2 dashes of bitters (Boker's), and 1 
wineglassful of whiskey. Fill one-third full of 
fine ice and shake. Strain in a fancy red wine- 
glass, and add piece of twisted lemon peel. 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 57 

Improved Whiskey Cocktail 

Same as improved brandy cocktail, Bourbon 

or rye whiskey being used instead of the 

brandy. 

Gin Rickey 

Put 1 or 2 pieces of ice in a fizz glass; add 
juice of a lime, wineglassful of gin, and fill 
glass with seltzer or club soda. 

Mamie Taylor 

Put a piece of ice in a high-ball glass ; pour 

in % wineglassful Scotch whiskey, then 1 bottle 

of cap or imported ginger ale; add piece of 

lemon peel. 

High Ball 

Take medium-sized bar-glass; put in it a 
lump of ice,' 1 wineglassful Scotch whiskey, and 
fill with cold carbonic. 

Four-Fruit Liquor (a Pleasant Drink for 

Summer) 

Take 1 pound of raspberries, 1 pound of 
black currants, l^/^ pounds of strawberries, and 
1% pounds of morello cherries. Put them into 
a deep jar and cover them closely. Place the 
jar in a saucepan half filled with boiling water, 
and simmer very gently for half an hour. Take 
the pan from the fire and pass its contents 
through a jelly-bag, being very careful not to 
squeeze the fruit ; indeed, if a little of the juice 



58 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

be left in it, it may be used for common tarts. 
Measure the juice and put it into a deep jar, 
and for every quart add 6 ounces of loaf sugar, 
which has been dissolved in half a pint of water. 
Add half the cherry kernels, slightly bruised, 
cover the jar to keep out the dust, and let it 
stand for twenty-four hours. Stir into it an 
equal quantity of brandy, pass the liquid again 
through the jelly-bag, and bottle for use. When 
taken, 2 tablespoonfuls of this liquor should be 
added to half a tumblerful of iced water. 

Heidelberff Punch* or Hebe's Cup 

Take a fresh frame-grown cucumber. Cut 
an inch and a half of it into thin slices, and put 
them into a punch-bowl with the thin rind of 
a sound lemon and 3 tablespoonfuls of pounded 
sugar. Work them well together for four or 
five minutes with the back of a wooden spoon ; 
then pour over them 3 tablespoonfuls of brandy, 
6 of sherry, a bottle of soda-water, and a bottle 
of claret. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, 
and let them remain for one hour. Just before 
serving add another bottle of soda-water. Suffi- 
cient for a three-pint bowl. 

UsquebauKh (Irish) 

To 2 quarts of the best brandy, or whiskey 
without a smoky or any peculiar flavor, put a 
pound of stoned raisins, half an ounce of nut- 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 59 

megs, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the same 
quantity of cardamoms, all bruised in a mortar ; 
the rind of a Seville orange rubbed off on lumps 
of sugar, a little tincture of saffron, and half a 
pound of brown sugar-candy. Shake the in- 
fusion every day for a fortnight, and filter it 
for use. Not a drop of water must be put to 
this cordial. It is sometimes tinged of a pale 
green with the juice of spinach instead of the 
saffron tint being imparted to it. 

Cider Cup 

Put a slice of crumb of bread toasted, at the 
bottom of a large jug ; grate half a small nutmeg 
over it, and place on it 2 or 3 slices of thin 
lemon rind and half a dozen lumps of sugar. 
Pour over it 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, 1 of 
brandy, the juice of a lemon, a bottle of soda- 
water, and, last of all, a quart of cider. Mix 
well, put a sprig of borage or balm into it, and 
add a few lumps of pure ice. This should be 
used as soon as it is made. Time to make, ten 
minutes. Sufficient for a two-quart cup. 

Coffee Kirsch 

Mix together y^ teaspoonful of powdered 
sugar, % pony creme de cocoa, Xy^, pony Mrsch- 
wasser, and 1 cocktail-glassful of black coffee. 

After shaking thoroughly, strain into a 
claret glass, not filling quite to the rim, which 



60 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

has been dipped in water and then in powdered 

sugar. 

Champagne Velvet 

Fill a large-sized goblet with half porter and 
half champagne, and stir slowly. 

Absinthe Frapp6 

Pour 2 ponies of absinthe into mixing-glass, 
fill with fine ice ; fill shaker half full and shake. 
When shaker is frozen, strain into smaU cham- 
pagne glass, and fizz with carbonic. 

Hot Scotch* 

Dissolve 1 or 2 lumps of sugar in a heated 
glass half full of boiling water; mix in a por- 
tion of Scotch whiskey, and, if desired, a bit of 
lemon peel and nutmeg. 

Brandy Crusta 

Take a cocktail glass, rub the rim with sliced 
lemon, and dip into pulverized sugar, which will 
then adhere to the rim. Fit into the top of the 
glass the paring of half a lemon (in one piece, 
like an apple paring) . Fill small whiskey glass 
one-third full of shaved ice, and put into it 3 
or 4 dashes of gum syrup, 1 dash of Boker's 
bitters, 1 wineglassful of brandy, 2 dashes of 
curaQoa, and 1 dash lemon juice. After shak- 
ing thoroughly, strain into the cocktail glass 
already prepared as directed. 



BOXING AND SERVING DRINKS 61 



Whiskey Crusta 

Wliiskey crusta the same as brandy crasta, 
using wliiskey instead of brandy. 

Gin Crusta 

Gin crusta same as brandy crusta, using gin 
instead of brandy. 

Brandy Daisy 

Mix in small bar-glass one-third full of 
shaved ice, and shake thoroughly, 3 or 4 dashes 
of gum syrup, 2 or 3 dashes of curaQoa cordial, 
the juice of half a small lemon, 1 small wine- 
glassful of brandy, and 2 dashes of Jamaica 
rum. Then strain into a large cocktail glass, 
and fill from a syphon of seltzer. 

Whiskey Daisy 

Put in small bar-glass one-third full of 
shaved ice 3 dashes gum syrup, 2 dashes orgeat 
syrup, the juice of half a small lemon, and 1 
wineglassful of Bourbon or rye whiskey. After 
shaking, strain into a large cocktail glass, and 
fill with seltzer or ApoUinaris. 

Santa Cruz Rum Daisy 

Fill small bar-glass one-third full of shaved 
ice; add 3 or 4 dashes of gum syrup, 2 or 3 
dashes of maraschino or curagoa, the juice of 
half a small lemon, and 1 wineglassful of Santa 
Cruz rum. After shaking well, strain into 



MIXING AND SERVING EHUNKS 



large cocktail glass, and fill with Apollinaris or 

seltzer. 

Gin Daisy 

Into small bar-glass one-third full of shaved 
ice put 3 or 4 dashes of orgeat, or gum syrup, 
3 dashes of maraschino, the juice of half a small 
lemon, and 1 wineglassful of Holland gin. 
Shake thoroughly and strain into large cocktail 
glass. Fill up with seltzer or Apollinaris. 

Mint Julep 

Stir 1 tablespoonful of white pulverized 
sugar into large bar-glass containing 2^ table- 
spoonfuls of water. Press 3 or 4 sprigs of 
fresh mint in this solution to give it decided 
flavor ; add 1% wineglassful of brandy, and fill 
the glass with shaved ice ; arrange in attractive 
way with the sprigs of mint standing in the ice, 
bouquet style. Add berries, slice of orange, 
etc., on top, a dash of Jamaica rum, and straws. 

Tlie Real GeorKia Mint Julep 

Put a dozen young sprigs of mint into a large 
bar-glass ; add a teaspoonful of powdered sugar 
dissolved in a small quantity of water ; then % 
wineglassful of cognac and % wineglassful of 
peach brandy, and fill up with shaved ice. (Use 
whiskey instead of brandy if preferred, though 
brandy is used in the South.) Stir without 
crushing the mint. 



BOXING AND SERVING DRINKS 63 

The following paragraph is quoted from a 
Southern newspaper : 

" Probably the old-fashioned jnlep is in its 
decadence as a public drink, but it does not 
follow that the 'art of constructing this famous 
Southern refresher is lost. On the contrary, 
we have knowledge of several old-fashioned 
gardens where the mint bed xmder the southern 
wall still blooms luxuriantly; where white fin- 
gers of household angels come every day about 
this time of the year and pluck a few sprays of 
the aromatic herb to build a julep for poor old 
shaky grandpa, who sits in the shady comer of 
the veranda with his feet on the rail and his 
head busy with the olden days. In such a 
household the art is still preserved. With her 
sleeves rolled up, the rosy granddaughter stirs 
sugar in a couple of tablespoonfuls of sparkling 
water, packs crushed ice to the top of the heavy 
cut-glass goblet, pours in the mellow whiskey 
until an overflow threatens, and then daintily 
thrusts the mint sprays into the crevices. And 
the old man, rousing from his dreams, blesses 
the vision which seems to rise up from the 
buried days of his youth, and with his gay nose 
nestling peacefully in the nosegay at the sum- 
mit of his midday refresher, quaffs the icy 
drink, and with a long-drawn sigh of relief 
sinks back to dream again until the dinner-bell 



M MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

sounds its hospitable summons. The mint 
julep still lives, but it is by no means fashion- 
able. Somehow the idea has gotten abroad that 
the mint ought to be crushed and shaken up 
with water and whiskey in equal proportions. 
No man can fall in love with such a mixture. 
Poor juleps have ruined the reputation of the 
South 's most famous drink.'* 

Gin Julep 

Gin julep the same as mint julep, without the 

** trimmings." 

Whiskey Julep 

Whiskey julep the same as mint julep, with- 
out fruits and berries. 

Pineapple Julep 

Put into a glass bowl, with ice, the juice of 
2 oranges, 1 gill of raspberry syrup, 1 gill of 
maraschino, 1 gill of Old Tom gin, 1 quart bottle 
sparkling moselle, and 1 ripe pineapple, peeled, 
sliced, and cut up. Served in flat glasses, add- 
ing berries in season. This recipe will make 
enough for five persons. 

Brandy Smash 

Press several tender shoots of mint into a 
small bar-glass containing 1 teaspoonful of 
white sugar dissolved in 2 tablespoonfuls of 
water. Add 1 wineglassful of brandy and fill 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 65 



two-thirds full of shaved ice. After stirring 
well, add small slice of orange and fresh mint. 
Serve with straws. 

Gin Smash 

Crush 3 or 4 sprigs of mint into small bar- 
glass containing 1 teaspoonful of fine white 
sugar dissolved in 2 teaspoonfuls of water. 
Add 1 wineglassful of gin, and fill with shaved 
ice. Stir thoroughly and embellish with fresh 
sprigs of mint. 

Whiskey Smash 

Same as gin smash, using whiskey instead 

of gin. 

Brandy Fix 

Dissolve 1 large teaspoonful of fine white 
sugar in a little water in a bar-glass; add the 
juice of a quarter of a lemon, 3 dashes of cura- 
goa, 1 wineglassful of brandy, and fill two-thirds 
full of shaved ice. After stirring thoroughly 
place slice of lemon or lime on top. 

Gin Fix 

Dissolve 1 large teaspoonful of powdered 
sugar in a little water in small bar-glass; add 
2 dashes of raspberry syrup, the juice of a 
quarter of a lemon, 1 wineglassful of Holland 
gin (or Old Tom, if preferred), and, after stir- 
ring well, fill two-tliirds full of shaved ice ; em- 
bellish with berries in season. 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 



Santa Cruz Fix 

Dissolve 1 large teaspoonfal of powdered 
sugar in a little water, in a small bar-glass ; add 
2 dashes of curasoa, the juice of a quarter of 
a lemon, 1 wineglassful of Santa Cruz rum, and 
fill two-thirds full of shaved ice. After stirring 
thoroughly garnish with small slices of orange 
and pineapple. 

Whiskey Fix 

Dissolve 1 large teaspoonful of powdered 
white sugar in a little water; add the juice of 
half a lemon, 1 wineglassful of Bourbon or rye 
whiskey, and fill two-thirds full of shaved ice. 
Stir, and garnish with orange and pineapple. 

Sherry Cobbler 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 tablespoonful of 
fine white sugar, 1 slice of orange cut up into 
quarters, 2 small pieces of pineapple, and fiOil 
nearly full of shaved ice. Then add enough 
sherry wine to fill full. Shake thoroughly and 
decorate with berries in season. Serve with 
straws. 

Champaene Cobbler 

Put into a tumbler 1 teaspoonful of sugar 
and 1 piece each of orange and lemon peel, and 
fill one-third full with shaved ice. Then fill full 
with wine, add berries in season, and serve with 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

straws. One bottle of wine should be allowed 
for every four bar-glasses of the large size. 

Catawba Cobbler 

Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of fine white sugar in 

a little water in a large bar-glass; add 1 slice 

of orange cut into quarters, and fill half full of 

shaved ice. Fill remainder with Catawba wine, 

decorate with berries in season, and serve with 

straws. 

Claret Cobbler 

The same as catawba cobbler, substituting 
claret wine for catawba. 

Hock Cobbler 

The same as catawba cobbler, substituting 
hock wine for catawba. 

Sauterne Cobbler 

The same as catawba cobbler, substituting 
sauterne for catawba. 

Knickerbocker 

Into a small bar-glass squeeze one-half a lime 
or small lemon ; add the rind, 3 teaspoonf uls of 
raspberry syrup, 1 wineglassful of Santa Cruz 
rum, and 3 dashes of curaQoa. Then fill one- 
third full of fine ice, shake thoroughly, and 
strain into a cocktail glass. Add a little more 
syrup for extra sweetness, if desired. 



68 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

Whiskey Cobbler 

Put into a tumbler 1^ wineglassfuls of 
whiskey, 1 teaspoonful of white sugar dissolved 
in a little water, 1 slice of orange cut into quar- 
ters, 1 dash of maraschino, and fill with shaved 
ice. After shaking well decorate with berries, 
and serve with straws. 

Saratoga Brace-Up 

Shake up well in a large bar-glass 1 table- 
spoonful of fine white sugar, 2 dashes of An- 
gostura bitters, 4 dashes of lemon or lime juice, 
2 dashes of absinthe, 1 fresh egg, 1 wineglass- 
ful of brandy, and 2 or 3 small lumps of ice. 
After straining into another glass, fill up with 
seltzer. 

Santina*s Pousse Caf6 

Pour separately into a small wineglass one- 
third fine old Cognac brandy, one-third mara- 
schino, one-third curaQoa. 

This pousse takes its name from Santina, the 
Spanish proprietor of a well-known New Or- 
leans cafe. 

Pousse I'Amour 

Pour into a sherry glass % glassful of mara- 
schino; then, without disturbing this, add with 
a spoon the yolk of 1 egg. Carefully introduce, 
next, sufficient vanilla cordial to surround the 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 69 

egg, and finally pour on top 1 tablespoonful of 
fine old brandy. 

Precision, a steady hand, and care in keep- 
ing the elements separate, are among the 
requisites for a good pousse. The safest way 
is to pour the ingredients from a sherry glass. 

Parisian Pousse Cai€ 

Taking the usual care to keep the elements 
separate, pour into a small wineglass two-fifths 
curaQoa, two-fifths kirschwasser, and one-fifth 

chartreuse. 

Faivre's Pousse Caf6 

Served in a small bar-glass, and consists of 
the following ingredients: onp-third Parisian 
pousse cafe (as above), one-third kirschwasser, 
one-third curaQoa. 

M. Faivre, for whom this pousse was named, 
was formerly at the head of one of New York^s 
well-known French cafes. 

Saratoga Pousse Caf6 

Serve in small wineglass one-fifth curaQoa, 
one-fifth Benedictine, one-fifth raspberry syrup, 
two-fifths fine old brandy, 1 teaspoonful of va- 
nilla cordial on top. 

West India Couperee 

Mix well, in a large soda-glass one-third full 
of vanilla ice cream, l^/^ pony-glasses of 



70 MIXffIG AND SERVING DRINKS 

brandy, 1 pony-glass maraschino or cnraQoa. 
Then fill nearly full with plain soda. Add a 
little grated nutmeg on the surface. 

Brandy Scaffa 

One-half fine old brandy, one-half mara- 
schino, 2 dashes of Angostura bitters. Serve 
in a small wineglass. 

Brandy Champerelle 

One-third old brandy, one-third curagoa, one- 
third Benedictiiie, 3 dashes Angostura bitters. 
Serve in a small wineglass. 

White Lion 

Put in a small bar-glass 1 teaspoonf ul of pul- 
verized sugar ; squeeze into this the juice of half 
a lime and add the rind. Pour in 1 wineglass- 
ful Santa Cruz rum, 1 teaspoonful of curaQoa, 
1 teaspoonful of raspberry syrup. Fill the 
glass half full of shaved ice and, after shaking 
thoroughly, strain into a cocktail glass. 

Santa Cruz Sour 

Dissolve 1 large teaspoonful of white sugar 
in a little seltzer or ApoUinaris in a small bar- 
glass ; add 3 dashes of lemon juice, 1 wineglass- 
f ul of Santa Cruz rum. 

Fill with shaved ice, shake, and strain into a 
claret glass. Add berries in season, and slices ' 
of orange. 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 71 



Gin Sour 

Dissolve 1 large teaspoonful of white sngar 
in a little seltzer or Apollinaris in a small bar- 
glass ; add 2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice, 1 wine- 
glassful of Holland or Old Tom gin. Fill with 
shaved ice, shake, and strain into a claret glass. 
Garnish top with pineapple and berries, or slice 
of orange. 

Whiskey Sour 

In a small bar-glass dissolve 1 large tea- 
spoonfnl of powdered white sngar in a little 
seltzer or Apollinaris; add the juice of half a 
small lemon, 1 wineglassful of Bourbon or rye 
whiskey, and fill with shaved ice. After shak- 
ing well strain into a claret glass, and add 
berries. 

Brandy Sour 

In a small bar-glass dissolve 1 large tea- 
spoonful of powdered white sugar in a little 
Apollinaris or seltzer; add the juice of half a 
lemon, 1 dash of curaQoa, 1 wineglassful of 
brandy, and fill with shaved ice. After shak- 
ing well, strain into a claret glass, and add ber- 
ries and a slice of orange. 

Jersey Sour 

Dissolve 1 large teaspoonful of powdered 
white sugar in a little water in a small bar- 
glass. Add 2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice, 1 



72 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

wineglassful of applejack, and fill with shaved 
ice. After shaking well, strain into a claret 
glass, and add berries. 

Effs Sour 

Shake up well in a small bar-glass 1 teaspoon- 
ful of powdered white sugar, 3 dashes of lemon 
juice, 1 pony of cura^oa, 1 pony of brandy, 1 
egg, 2 or 3 small lumps of ice. Remove the ice. 

Apple Toddy 

Dissolve in a little boiling water 1 large 
teaspoonful of fine white sugar. Pour into a 
hot bar-glass (middle-sized), and add 1 wine- 
glassful of cider brandy (applejack), half of a 
baked apple. Then fill the glass two-thirds full 
of boiling water, stir well, powder the top with 
grated nutmeg, and serve with a spoon. 

Cold Brandy Toddy 

Dissolve in small bar-glass 1 teaspoonful of 
fine white sugar in % wineglassful of water. 
Add 1 wineglassful of brandy and 1 lump of 
ice, and stir well. 

Hot Brandy Toddy 

Dissolve in a hot bar-glass (small size) 1 tea- 
spoonful of fine white sugar in a little boiling 
water ; add 1 wineglassful of brandy, and pour 
boiling water in until the glass is two-thirds 
full. Dress the top with a little grated nutmeg. 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 73 

Cold Gin Toddy 

Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of powdered sugar in 
^ wineglassful of water in a small bar-glass. 
Add 1 wineglassful of gin, 1 lump of ice, and 
stir well. 

Hot Gin Toddy 

Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of powdered sugar in 
boiling water in a hot bar-glass, small. Add 1 
wineglassful of gin (Old Tom or Holland, as 
preferred), and pour boiling water in until the 
glass is two-thirds full. - 

Cold Whiskey Toddy 

In a small bar-glass dissolve 1 teaspoonful 
of fine white sugar in a little water. Add 1 
wineglassful of Bourbon or rye whiskey, and 
1 lump of ice, and stir well. 

For hot whiskey toddy the ice is omitted, 
the sugar dissolved in boiling water, and boil- 
ing water is poured into the glass until it is 
two-thirds full. 

Cold Irish-Whiskey Toddy 

In a small bar-glass dissolve 1 teaspoonful of 
fine white sugar in 2 wineglassfuls of water. 
Add 1 wineglassful of fine Irish whiskey and 1 
lump of ice, and stir well. This will make a 
particularly fine drink with either. 



74 MDQNG AND SERVING DRINKS 

Egrsnoss 

Mix in a large bar-glass 1 large teaspoonful 
of powdered white sugar, 1 fresh egg, % wine- 
glassful of brandy, and ^ wineglassful of Santa 
Cruz rum (or 1 wineglassful of either of the 
two liquors), a little shaved ice, and fill with 
rich milk. Shake very thoroughly in a tin egg- 
nogg *' shaker,'' remove the ice, and pour into 
a goblet; add grated nutmeg on top. 

Hot Effffnoss 

A favorite California drink. Make it in a 
large bar-glass in the same manner as cold egg- 
nogg, only using boiling water instead of ice. 

EssrnoKS for a Party 

Beat the whites of 20 fresh eggs until very 
light, and the yolks separately until well cut up 
with the egg-beater; then mix the yolks in a 
big punch-bowl with 2V^ quarts fine old brandy, 
1 pint of Santa Cruz rum, and 2 pounds of 
whke sugar. Then pour in slowly 2^ gallons 
of ridi milk, stirring constantly to prevent 
curdling. Add grated nutmeg, then the beaten 
white of egg on top, and decorate with colored 
sugars. Leave it standing in a tub of ice be- 
fore serving. This recipe makes 3^ gallons* 

Sherry EffsnossT 

Put into a large bar-glass 1^/^ teaspoonfuls 
of fine white sugar, 1 fresh egg, 2 or 3 small 



mXING AND SERVING DRINKS 75 

lumps of ice, 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, and fill 
the glass with rich milk. After shaking well, 
80 as to mix the whole thoroughly, strain into a 
large goblet, remove the ice, and add grated 
nutmeg on top. 

General Harrison's Efirfirnoffs 

Put into a large bar-glass l^^ teaspoonfuls 
of sugar, 1 fresh egg, 2 or 3 small lumps of ice, 
and fill with cider. Shake thoroughly. 

This fine old drink is said to have been a 

prime favorite with General Harrison, and was 

constantly called for in the days when people 

took the steamboat trip '^ down the Mississ- 

ippi/' 

Baltimore EsKnoffsr 

Beat the whites of 10 eggs till stiff ; then beat 
the yolks and 10 teaspoonfuls powdered sugar 
together to a cream; mix in well Vs of a nut- 
meg, grated, and add % pint of brandy (or Ja- 
maica rum) and 2 wineglassfuls of madeira 
wine. Now, into this mixture beat the already 
beaten white of egg, and stir in gradually 
(while constantly beating) 6 pints of rich milk. 
Stand it in a tub of ice till cooled. This recipe 
makes enough for ten people. 

Santa Cruz Fizz 

Into a bar-glass of medium size put 1 tea- 
spoonful of fine white sugar, 3 dashes of lemon 



76 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

juice, 1 small lump of ice, 1 wineglassful of 
Santa Cruz rum. Fill the glass with seltzer 
from a syphon, or with ApoUinaris, and stir 
well. 

Whiskey Fizz 

Put into a bar-glass of medium size 1 tea- 
spoonful of fine white sugar, 3 dashes of lemon 
juice, 1 small lump of ice, 1 wineglassful of 
Bourbon or rye whiskey. Fill with seltzer or 
Apollinaris, and stir well. 

Brandy Fizz 

Put into a bar-glass of medimn size 1 tea- 
spoonful of powdered sugar, 3 dashes of lemon 
juice, 1 wineglassful of brandy, 1 small lump of 
ice. Fill the glass with Apollinaris or seltzer, 
and stir well. 

Gin Fizz 

Into a bar-glass (medium size) put 1 tea- 
spoonful of powdered white sugar, 3 dashes of 
lemon juice, 1 wineglassful of Holland gin, 1 
small piece of ice. Fill with Apollinaris or 
seltzer, and stir well. 

Silver Fizz 

Into a large bar-glass put 1 tablespoonful of 
pulverized white sugar, 3 dashes of lemon or 
lime juice, the white of 1 egg, 1 wineglassful of 
Old Tom gin, 2 or 3 small lumps of ice. After 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 77 

shaking well, strain into a middle-sized bar- 
glass and fill with seltzer. 

Golden Fizz 

Made exactly in the manner of silver fizz, 

only substituting the yolk of an egg for the 

white. 

Brandy Sling: 

Dissolve in a small bar-glass 1 small tea- 
spoonful of powdered white sugar in 1 wine- 
glassful of water ; add 1 small lump of ice and 
1 wineglassful of brandy, and stir thoroughly. 
Serve with a little grated nutmeg on top. 

Hot Brandy Sline 

In a hot bar-glass of medium size dissolve 1 

small teaspoonf ul of powdered sugar in a little 

boiling water. Add 1 wineglassful of brandy, 

and fill the glass two-thirds full of boiling 

water. Serve with a little grated nutmeg on 

top. 

Gin Slinff 

In a small bar-glass dissolve 1 small tea- 
spoonful of fine white sugar in 1 wineglassful 
of water. Add 1 wineglassful of brandy and 1 
small lump of ice, and stir well. Serve with a 
little grated nutmeg on top. 

Hot Gin Slins 

In a hot bar-glass of medium size dissolve 1 
small teaspoonful of powdered white sugar in 



78 MCaNG AND SERVING DRINKS 

a little boilings water. Add 1 wineglassfnl of 
Holland gin, and fill the glass two-thirds full of 
boiling water. Serve with a little grated nut- 
meg on top. 

Whiskey SlifiK 

In a small bar-glass dissolve 1 small tea- 
spoonful of powdered white sugar in 1 wine- 
glassful of water. Add 1 wineglassfnl of 
Bourbon or rye whiskey, a little ice, and stir 
well. Serve with a little grated nutmeg on top. 

Hot Whiskey Slins 

In a hot bar-glass of medium size dissolve 1 
small teaspoonful of powdered sugar in a little 
hot water. Add 1 wineglassfnl of Bourbon or 
rye whiskey, and fill the glass two-thirds full 
of boiling water. Serve with a little grated 
nutmeg on top. 

Hot Spiced Rum 

In a hot bar-glass of middle size dissolve 1 
small teaspoonful of powdered white sugar in 
a little boiling water. Add 1 wineglassfnl of 
Jamaica rum, 1 teaspoonful of spices (allspice 
and cloves not ground), 1 piece of sweet butter 
as large as half a chestnut, and fiU the glass 
two-thirds full of boiling water. 

Hot Rum 

In a hot bar-glass of medium size dissolve 
1 small teaspoonful of powdered sugar in a 



BOXING AND SERVING DRINKS 79 

little boiling water. Add 1 wineglassful Ja- 
maica mm, 1 piece of sweet butter as large as 
half a chestnut, and fill the glass two-thirds full 
of boiling water. Stir well, and serve with a 
little grated nutmeg on top. 

Blue Blazer 

Take 2 silver-plated mugs, and put in one of 
these 1 small teaspoonful of powdered white 
sugar dissolved in 1 wineglassful of boiling 
water and 1 wineglassful of Scotch whiskey. 
Set the liquid on fire, and whUe blazing mix by 
pouring four or five times from one mug to the 
other. When cleverly done, this looks like a 
stream of liquid fire. Add a piece of twisted 
lemon peel, and serve in a small bar-glass. 

To mix this beverage an expert is required — 
one who has been made perfect by practice with 
cold water, — otherwise he will be scalded in 
passing the hot liquid from one vessel to an- 
other. 

Tom and Jerry 

Beat, separately, the whites and the yolks of 
12 fresh eggs till the whites are stiff and the 
yolks no thicker than water ; then mix together 
in a punch-bowl, and add I/2 small bar-glassful 
of Jamaica rum, V/j teaspoonfuls of ground 
cinnamon, % teaspoonful of ground cloves, %. 
teaspoonful of ground allspice. After stirring 



80 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

well, add fine white sugar until the mixture at- 
tains the consistence of a light batter. 

The sugar can be prevented from settling at 
the bottom by using about as much carbonate 
of soda as can be got on a dime, or a teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar. 

How to Serve Tom and Jerry 

Put into a small bar-glass 1 tablespoonful of 
the mixture, described in the recipe for Tom 
and Jerry, and add 1 wineglassful of brandy. 
Fill the glass with boiling wat^r, and put a little 
grated nutmeg on top. Serve with a spoon. 

Sometimes, for convenience, a bottle is kept 
on hand containing a mixture one-half brandy, 
one-quarter Jamaica rum, one-quarter Santa 
Cruz rum. Then, instead of plain brandy, a 
wineglassful of this mixture is used to every 
tumbler of Tom and Jerry. 

Copenhagen 

This is the same thing as Tom and Jerry, the 
only difference being in the name. 

Scotch Whiskey Skin 

Rinse a small bar-glass with hot water ; then 
put in it 1 lump of white sugar, fill half -full of 
boiling water, add 1 small wineglassful of Glen- 
livet or Islay whiskey, and 1 small piece of 
lemon rind. Stir well, and serve with a spoon. 



MDCING AND SERVING DRINKS 81 

Irish Whiskey Skin 

Follow the directions for Scotch whiskey 

skiT; only substituting Irish whiskey for the 

other. 

Columbia Skin 

This beverage is made in Boston exactly as' 
a whiskey skin. 

Tom Collins Whiskey 

Put into a small bar-glass 5 or 6 dashes of 
gnm syrup, juice of a small lemon, 1 large wine- 
glassful of whiskey, 2 or 3 lumps of ice. After 
shaking thoroughly, strain into a large bar- 
glass, and fill with plain soda-water. Drink 
while it is full of life. 

Tom Collins Brandy 

Follow the directions for Tom Collins whis- 
key, only substituting brandy for whiskey. 

Tom Collins Gin 

Follow the directions for Tom Collins whis- 
key, only substituting gin for whiskey. 

Hot Brandy Flip 

In a hot bar-glass (large size) dissolve 1 tea- 
spoonful of sugar in a little hot water. Add 
1 wineglassful of brandy and yolk of 1 egg. 
Shake well, pour into a bar-glass of middle size, 
and fill one-half full of boiling water. Serve 
with a little grated nutmeg on top. 



U MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

Hot Whiskey Flip 

Follow the directions for brandy flip, only 
substituting whiskey for brandy. 

Hot Rum Flip 

Follow the directions for brandy flip, only 

substituting Jamaica rum for brandy, 

• 

Hot Gin Flip 

Follow the directions for brandy flip, only 
substituting Holland gin for brandy. 

Cold Brandy Flio 

In a large bar-glass, dissolve 1 teaspoonful 
powdered sugar in % wineglassful of water; 
add 1 wineglassful of brandy; 1 fresh egg; 2 
lumps of ice. After shaking well strain into a 
small bar-glass, and serve with a little grated 
nutmeg on top. 

Cold Rum Flip 

Into a large bar-glass put 1 teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar, dissolved in a little water; 1 
wineglassful of Jamaica rum, 1 fresh egg, 2 or 3 
lumps of ice. After shaking well, strain into a 
middle-sized glass, and serve with a little grated 
nutmeg on top. 

Cold Gin Flip 

Follow directions for cold rum flip, only sub- 
stituting Holland gin for Jamaica runu 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 83 

Cold Whiskey Flip 

Follow directions for mm flip, only substi- 
tating Bourbon or rye whiskey for Jamaica rmn. 

Port Wine Flip 

Break 1 fresh egg into a large bar-glass ; add 
1 small teaspoonful of powdered white sugar, 1 
large wineglassful of port wine, 2 or 3 small 
lumps of ice. After shaking well, strain into a 
medium-sized goblet. 

Sherry Wine Flip 

Follow directions for port wine flip, only sub- 
stitute sherry wine for port. 

Nulled Wine with Effss 

Beat up, separately, the whites of 9 fresh 
eggs, and the yolks, beating in with the yolks 4 
tablespoonfuls of powdered white sugar. Set 
over the fire, in an absolutely clean skillet, 1 
quart either of port, claret, or red burgundy 
wine, and % pint of water. Now mix the whites 
and yolks of the eggs in a punch-bowl with an- 
other % pint of water and beat them well to- 
gether. When the wine boils pour it also into 
the bowl, add a little grated nutmeg, and stir 
rapidly. 

Do not pour the mixture into the wine, or the 
eggs will curdle. 

To suit the taste, a little allspice and more 
sugar are added. 



84 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

Mulled Cider 

Follow directions for mulled wine with eggs, 
only using twice as much cider to the same 
number of eggs, and omitting the water. 

Mulled Wine 

Dissolve 14 pound of sugar in 2 pints of hot 
water in an absolutely clean punch-bowl; add 
2y2 pints of good sherry wine, and let the mix- 
ture come nearly to the boil. Have the white 
of 1 egg beaten to a froth, pour it into the 
hot mixture, stir rapidly, and add a little 
grated nutmeg. 

Mulled Wine without Effss 

General Ride 

Into an absolutely clean vessel containing 
water in the proportion of 1 small tumblerful 
to every pint of wine to be mulled, put spice 
(the quantity of spice must be determined to 
suit individual taste), and boil until the flavor 
is extracted. (Cloves, cinnamon, and grated 
nutmeg are the usual spices for mulled wine.) 
Then add the wine, and sugar to suit the taste ; 
bring to the boiling point, and then serve with 
biscuits, or strips of crisp, dry toast. 

Port and claret are the wines most com- 
monly mulled, though any kind of wine may be 
so treated. An extra quantity of sugar is 
needed for claret. 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 85 

Quince Liqueur 

Grate enough quinces to make 2 quarts of 
juice, and squeeze them through a jelly-bag. 
Mix together with this 4 quarts of cognac 
brandy, 2^^ pounds of white sugar, 12 ounces of 
bitter almonds, bruised, 1 pound of coriander 
seeds, 36 cloves. 

Put the mixture into a demijohn, and shake 
well every day for ten days. Then strain the 
liquid through a jelly-bag till it is perfectly 
clear, and put into a bottle. 

This recipe will make 1% gallons of the most 
delicious liqueur. 

Port Wine Sangaree 

Put into a medium-sized bar-glass 1 clatet- 
glassful of port wine, % teaspoonful of pow- 
dered white sugar, 2 or 3 small lumps of ice, and 
shake thoroughly. Strain into a small bar- 
glass, and grate a little nutmeg on top. 

Slierry Sangraree 

In a middle-sized bar-glass put 1 claret-glass- 
ful of sherry wine, % teaspoonful of fine white 
sugar, 2 or 3 small lumps of ice. 

Shake thoroughly, strain into a small bar- 
glass, and grate a little nutmeg on the top. 

Brandy Sansaree 

In a middle-sized' bar-glass, dissolve ^ tea- 
spoonful of fine white sugar in a little water. 



86 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

Add 1 wineglass of brandy, and fill the glass 

Va fiill of shaved ice. After shaking thor- 

oughly, strain into a small glass and add a 

dash of port Ti^rine. Grate a little nutmeg on 

the top. 

Gin Sansaree 

Follow directions for brandy sangaree, only 
substituting Holland gin for brandy. 

Ale Sansaree 

Put 1 teaspoonful of fine white sugar dis- 
solved in a wineglassful of water into a large 
bar-glass. 

Fill up with ale, stir, and grate a little nut- 
meg on top. 

Porter Sangraree 

Put 1 teaspoonful of fine white sugar dis- 
solved in a "wineglassful of water into a large 
bar-glass. 

Fill up with porter, stir, and grate a little 
nutmeg on the top. 

Porteree 

Another name for porter sangaree. 

Port Wine Neffus 

Into a small bar-glass put 1 wineglassful of 
port wine; 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and fill Vg 
full with hot water. Grate a little nutmeg on 
top. 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 87 

Negas may be made in any quantity out of 
any sweet wine, — sherry, etc., though port is 
most commonly nsed. The ingredients are 
given here in the proportion to be used with 
every pint of the wine. Pouring 1 pint of the 
wine into a jug, take a lemon and rub on the 
rind i/4 of a pound of loaf sugar (lumps) until 
the yellow part of the skin is entirely absorbed, 
squeeze and strain the juice. Now mix the 
wine, the sugar and lemon juice, and add grated 
nutmeg to suit the taste ; pour over the mixture 
1 quart of boiling water, cover the jug, and al- 
low it to cool somewhat. 

This favorite English drink is named for Col- 
onel Negus, its reputed inventor. 

Soda Nesus 

To make a quart of this fine, effervescing 

beverage, put into an absolutely clean saucepan 
1 pint of port wine, 8 lumps of white loaf sugar, 
6 cloves, and 1 teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. 

Warm and stir thoroughly, without allowing 
it to come to a boil. Pour into a bowl or pitcher, 
and decant a bottle of plain soda-water upon 
the warm wine. 

Currant Shrub 

Into 1 quart of strained currant juice put 1% 
pounds of loaf sugar. Boil gently not over ten 



38 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

minutes, skim carefully, and remove from the 
fire. AVhen lukewarm, add brandy, allowing 
yo a gill to every pint of shrub. Put in a tight 
bottle. 

Shrub may be made of cherry or raspberry 
juice in the same way, only reducing the quan- 
tity of sugar. Mixed with ice water, a little 
shrub is very good. 

Raspberry Shrub 

• * 

Pour 1 quart of vinegar over 3 quarts of ripe 
raspberries. Allow it to stand a day, strain, 
and add sugar, allowing 1 pound to each pint. 
Then boil about half an hour, skimming clear. 
When cool, add a wineglassful of brandy to each 
pint of the shrub. 

When heated, with extreme weather or with 
fever, this makes a very good beverage by mix- 
ing about 2 cupf uls in a tumbler of water. This 
recipe will make 1 gallon. 

Brandy Shrub 

Take 5 lemons, peel the rinds of 2, add the 
juice from all 5, and mix with 2 quarts of 
brandy. After keeping it closely covered for 3 
days, add 1 quart of sherry and 2 pounds of 
loaf sugar dissolved in water. Strain through 
a jelly-bag and pour into a bottle. This recipe 
will make 3 quarts. 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 89 



Rum Shrub 

Mix together 3 gallons of best Jamaica rum ; 
1 quart of orange juice ; 1 pint of lemon juice ; 6 
pounds of powdered sugar dissolved in water. 
After leaving closely covered over night, boil 3 
pints of fresh milk, and when cold add to the 
mixture. After filtering through a flannel bag 
lined with blotting paper, bottle, and cork im- 
mediately. 

This recipe makes about 4 gallons. 

Bishop 

Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of powdered sugar in 
1 wineglassful of water. Pour this into a large 
soda-glass; add 2 thin slices lemon, 2 dashes 
of Jamaica rum, 2 or 3 small lumps of ice. 

Fill the glass with claret or red burgundy, 
shake thoroughly and remove the ice. 

English Bishop 

Roast before a fire an orange (stuck well with 
cloves, to suit the taste). When brown enough 
cut in quarters, and pour over it 1 quart of port 
wine (already heated), add sugar to suit the 
taste, and allow to simmer over the fire for half 
an hour. 

This recipe makes 1 quart. 

Brandy Punch 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar dissolved in a little water 



90 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

(since it does not readily dissolve in spirits) ; 
add 1 teaspoonf nl of raspberry syrup ; 1 wine- 
glassful of brandy ; % wineglassf ul of Jamaica 
rum; juice of y^ a lemon; 2 slices of orange; 1 
piece of pineapple. 

Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake well, and 
ornament with berries in season. Serve with a 

straw. 

Brandy-and-Rum Punch 

Into a large bar-glass put 1 tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar dissolved in a little water. Add 
1 wineglassf ul of Santa Cruz rum ; y^ wineglass- 
f ul of brandy ; juice of ^ a small lemon ; 1 slice 
of orange (quartered), and 1 piece of pineapple. 

Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake thor- 
oughly, ornament with sliced lime and berries 
in season, and serve with a straw. 

Medford Rum Punch 

Into a large bar-glass put 1 tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar dissolved in a little water ; \y^ 
glasses of Medford rum ; 1 pony-glassful of Ja- 
maica rum ; 2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice, and 1 
slice of orange (quartered). 

Fill the glass with ice, shake thoroughly, and 

add sliced lime and berries in season. Serve 

with a straw. 

Gin Punch 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 tablespoonful of 

raspberry syrup; 1 tablespoonful of powdered 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 9f 

sngar, dissolved in a little seltzer; 1^ wine* 
glassfnls of Holland gin; juice of ^ a small 
lemon; 1 slice of orange (quartered) ; 1 piece of 
pineapple, and 1 or 2 dashes of maraschino. 

Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake thor- 
oughly, and add sliced lime and herries in 
season. 

Santa Cruz Rum Punch 

Into a large bar-glass put 1 tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar dissolved in a little water; 1 
wineglassf ul of Santa Cruz rum ; % wineglass* 
ful of Jamaica rum; 2 or 3 dashes of lemon 
juice, and 1 slice of orange (quartered). 

Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake thor- 
oughly, and decorate with sliced lime and ber* 
ries in season. Serve with a straw. 

Hot Irish Whiskey Punch 

Binse in hot water a bar-glass of mediimi 
size; in this dissolve thoroughly 2 lumps of 
loaf sugar in 1 wineglassful of boiling water, 
pour in 1 wineglassful Ejinahan's or Jamieson's 
Irish whiskey. Add a second wineglassful of 
boiling water, and a small piece of lemon rind 
or thin slice of lemon. 

As mentioned before, sugar does not dis* 
solve easily in spirits: hence it is important^ 
when making a punch or hot toddy, to put in 
at least enough water to fully dissolve the 



92 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

sugar before pouring in the spirits. This may 
be done safely if the glass into which the hot 
water is to be poured be first carefully warmed. 
For all hot drinks made with whiskey, or 
brandy, pulverized rock-candy is better than 
sugar. 

Hot Scotch Whiskey Punch 

Dissolve 2 lumps of loaf sugar in 1 wineglass- 
ful of boiling water. Pour into a bar-glass of 
medium size, after rinsing well in hot water, and 
add 1 wineglassf ul of Glenlivet or Islay whiskey. 
Add a second wineglassful of boiling water, a 
small piece of lemon rind or thin slice of lemon. 

Cold Whiskey Punch 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar dissolved in a little water, juice 
of 14 small lemon, 1^^ wineglassfuls of Irish or 
Scotch whiskey. 

Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake thor- 
oughly, and decorate on top with 2 thin slices 
of lemon and berries in season. Serve with a 
straw. 

When planning cold whiskey punch for a 
tableful of guests, make it with boiling water, 
allowing one or two days for it to concoct and 
cool before serving. The ingredients will then 
make a much more perfect mixture than will 
ever result from whiskey and water cold^ 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 93 

Arrack Punch 

Into a bar-glass of medium size put 1 table- 
spoonful of powdered sugar dissolved in a little 
water. Add juice of ^ a small lemon ; 1 pony- 
glassful of Batavia arrack; 1 wineglassful of 
Jamaica rum; 1 piece of pineapple. 

Fill with shaved ice, shake thoroughly, and 

embellish with berries in season. Serve with a 

straw. 

Milk Punch 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 teaspoonful of 
fine white sugar; 1 wineglassful of brandy; % 
wineglassful of Santa Cruz rum; small lump 
of ice. 

Fill the glass with milk, shake thoroughly, 
and strain into a large glass. Lastly, grate a 
little nutmeg on top. 

Hot Milk Punch 

Follow directions for milk punch, only omit- 
ting the ice, and using hot milk. 

Manhattan Milk Punch 

Follow the directions for cold milk punch, and 
add 5 drops of aromatic tincture. 

Egrg Milk Punch 
Put into a large bar-glass 1 teaspoonful of 
fine white sugar; 1 wineglassful of brandy; %, 
wineglassful of Santa Cruz nun; 1 egg; small 
lump of ice. 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 



«M«MaMi*i 



Fill the glass with pure fresh milk, shake very 
thoroughly, and strain into a large glass. 

El Dorado Punch 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 pony of brandy; 
% pony of Jamaica rum ; i/^ pony of Bourbon ; 1 
tablespoonful of powdered sugar dissolved in a 
little water, and a slice of lemon. 

Fill the glass with fine ice, shake thoroughly, 
and add berries or small pieces of orange. 
Serve with a straw. 

Claret Punch 

Into a large bar-glass put 1 teaspoonful of 
fine sugar; 1 slice of lemon; 1 slice of orange 
(quartered), and fill the glass Vs ^^^^ o^ shaved 
ice. Fill full with claret, shake thoroughly, and 
add berries in season. Serve with a straw. 

The recipe for a quantity of claret punch is 
given under the title *' Imperial Punch. ^* 

Vanilla Punch 

Into a large bar-glass put 1 tablespoonful of 
sugar; 1 wineglassful of brandy; the juice of 
% of a lemon. 

Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake thor- 
oughly, add 1 or 2 slices of lemon, and flavor 
with a few drops of vanilla extract. Serve with 
a straw, or glass tube. A delicious beverage. 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS % 

Sauterne Punch 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 teaspoonf ul of fine 
white sugar ; 1 slice of lemon ; 1 slice of orange ; 
1 piece of pineapple. 

Fill the glass Vs ^ ^U with shaved ice, and fill 
full with sauterne. Shake thoroughly, and add 
berries in season. 

Sherry Punch 

Put into a large bar-glass 2 wineglassfuls of 
sherry; 1 teaspoonf ul of sugar; 1 slice of or- 
ange ; 1 slice of lemon. 

Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake thor- 
oughly, and dress with berries in season. Serve 

with a straw. 

Orgeat Punch 

Pour into a large bar-glass li^ tablespoonfuls 
of orgeat syrup; 1^ wineglassfuls of brandy; 
juice of % a lemon. 

Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake thor- 
oughly, and add berries in season, and a dash of 
port wine on, top. Serve with a straw. 

Cura^oa Punch 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar dissolved in a little water; 1 
wineglassf ul of brandy ; ^ wineglassful of Ja- 
maica rum; ^ pony-glassful of curaQoa; the 
juice of % a lemon. 

Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake thor- 



% MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

oughly, and add fruits of the season. Serve 
with a straw. 

Roman Punch 

Into a large bar-glass put 1 tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar dissolved in a little water; 1 
tablespoonful of raspberry syrup; 1 teaspoon- 
f ul of curagoa ; 1 wineglassf ul of Jamaica rum ; 
% wineglassf ul of brandy; the juice of ^ a 
lemon. 

Fill with shaved ice, shake thoroughly, and 
add a dash of port wine, and fruits in season. 
Serve with a straw. 

St. Charles* Punch 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar dissolved in a little water; 1 
wineglassf ul of port wine; 1 pony-glassful of 
brandy ; the juice of i/4 of a lemon. 

Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake thor- 
oughly, and deck with fruits in season. Serve 
with a straw. 

Seventh Regiment National Guard Punch 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar dissolved in a little water ; the 
juice of 1/4 of a lemon ; 1 wineglassf ul of brandy, 
and 1 wineglassful of sherry wine. Flavor with 
raspberry syrup, and fill the glass with shaved 
ice. Shake thoroughly, and dress with pieces of 



inXING AND SERVING DRINKS 97 

orange, pineapple, and berries in season. Add 
a dash of Jamaica rum, and serve with a straw. 

Sixty-ninth Reslment Punch 

Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of sugar in 1 wine- 
glassful of boiling water ; pour into an earthen 
mug ; add % wineglassf ul of Irish whiskey ; i^ 
wineglassful of Scotch whiskey; then pour in 
a second wineglassful of boiling water, and add 
a small piece of lemon rind. 

Punch Grassot 

Mix 1 wineglassful of brandy; 1 teaspoonful 
of cura^oa ; 1 drop of acetic acid ; 2 teaspoonf uls 
of simple syrup; 1 teaspoonful of strawberry 
syrup ; % of a pint of water ; % a small lemon, 
sliced. Add ice, and pour into a large goblet, 
dressing with a slice of peach or apricot in sea- 
son. For an excellent punch for cold weather 
served hot. 

This punch is named for M. Grassot, custo- 
dian of the Palais Boyal in Paris. 

Maraschino Punch 

Pour into a large bar-glass 1 teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar dissolved in a little water; 1 
wineglassful of brandy ; 2 dashes of arrack ; ^ 
pony-glassful of maraschino ; the juice of ^ a 
small lemon. 

Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake thor- 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 



onghly, and garnish with f rait and berries in 
season. Serve with a straw. 

Champagne Punch 

Add to 1 quart bottle of champagne 3 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar; 1 orange, sliced; the juice of 
a lemon; 2 slices of pineapple (cut in small 
pieces), and 1 wineglassful of raspberry or 
strawberry syrup. Garnish with fruits in sea- 
son, and serve in champagne goblets. 

This recipe makes 1 quart; the usual allow- 
ance being 1 bottle to every four guests. 

See also ** Rocky Mountain Punch " for a 
good champagne punch. 

Mississippi Punch 

Pour into a large bar-glass, 1 wineglassful of 
brandy; ^/^ wineglassful of Jamaica rum; ^ 
wineglassful of Bourbon whiskey ; 1 tablespoon- 
ful of powdered sugar dissolved in a little 
water, and the juice of ^^ a small lemon. 

Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake thor- 

oughly, and garnish with fruit in season. Serve 

with a straw. 

Wassail Bowl 

The wassail bowl used in ancient days to be 

served specially on Christmas Eve. It was 

brought into the banqueting hall with songs and 

carols, and crowned with garlands. To make 

it, grate ^/^ a nutmeg, and put it into a saucepan 



AND SERVING DRINKS 



with 1 dove, l^ of an ounce of grated ginger, y^ 
a small blade of mace, an inch of stick dnna- 
mon^ and 2 or 3 coriander and cardamom seeds. 
Ponr upon these ingredients 1 teacupful of cold 
water, and let them boil. Then add 2 bottles of 
white wine (not sweet), and % of a pound of re- 
fined sugar. Pour the mixture into a large 
saucepan, and set it on the fire. Break the 
yolks of 6, and the whites of 3, eggs into the 
wassail bowl. When the wine is warm, mix 1 
teacupful of it in a bowl with the eggs ; when it 
is a little warmer, add another teacupful, and 
repeat until 5 teacupfuls have been used. Let 
the wine boil, and pour it upon the eggs, stirring 
briskly all the time to froth it. Core, but do not 
pare, 6 apples ; fill the cavity with sugar, roast 
them, and throw them into the bowl. Serve 
very hot. Though sherry or madeira ought 
properly to be used, good raisin wine will make 
an excellent wassail, especially if a tumblerful 
of brandy be added to it 

Rocky Mountain Punch 

Mix in a large punch-bowl 1 quart of Jamaica 
rum; 1 pint of maraschino; 6 lemons, sliced; 
sugar to taste, and place the bowl in a vessel of 
about the same depth, packing the space be- 
tween the bowl and the vessel with ice, and 
sprinkling a little rock-salt over the surface. 



100 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

When the icing has been accomplished, and 
just before serving the punch, add 5 bottles of 
champagne, and slices of orange and lemon. 

The vessel holding the bowl is often fancifully 
decorated. 

This recipe makes enough for twenty guests. 

Strawberry Punch 

On a heaping cupful of granulated sugar 
pour 2 cupfuls of strained, fresh strawberry 
juice. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, then 
add 4 cupfuls of cold water and the juice of 1 
lemon. 

Put on ice until very cold, then stir thor- 
oughly and pour in punch-bowl 

Immediately before serving add % cupful of 
fine, whole strawberries, and 1 tablespoonful of 
maraschino. 

Hot Brandy-and-Rum Punch 

Bub 1 pound of white loaf sugar over 4 
lemons until all the yellow part of the skins is 
absorbed, then put the sugar into a punch-bowl, 
add the ingredients well together; pour in 3 
quarts of boiling water, stir thoroughly, and add 
1 quart of Jamaica ruin ; 1 quart of cognac, and 
1 teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. 

This recipe should make enough for fifteen 
persons; the usual allowance being 1 quart to 
four persons. A great essential in the making 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS fOI 

of punch is care to mix the ingredients most 
thoroughly. Besults will show the importance 
of this. 

Imperial Brandy Punch 

MiK well in a punch-bowl 1 gallon of water; 
3 quarts of brandy; 1 pint of Jamaica rum; 
1^ pounds of white sugar (or more if desired 
very sweet) ; juice of 6 lemons ; 3 oranges sliced ; 
1 pineapple, pared and cut up; 1 gill of cura- 
Coa; 2 gills of raspberry syrup; ice, and add 
berries in season. 

This makes a fine punch for twenty persons. 

Imperial Punch 

Mix thoroughly in a pitcher holding 1 quart, 
1 bottle of claret ; 1 bottle of soda-water ; 4 table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar dissolved in a lit- 
tle of the soda-water ; i/4 teaspoonf ul of grated 
nutmeg; 1 liqueur-glass of maraschino; about 
Va pound of ice; 3 or 4 slices of cucumber rind. 

Thirty-second Regiment or Victoria Punch 

Steep 6 lemons, sliced, for twenty-four hours 
in ^ gallon of brandy and ^ gallon of Jamaica 
rum'. After steeping, add 1 pound of white 
sugar; 1% quarts of water, and 1 pint of boil- 
ing milk. Mix thoroughly and strain through a 
jelly-bag. 

This punch may be bottled, and afterwards 



102 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

served either hot or cold. This recipe is for a 
party of twenty. 

Liffht Guard Punch 

For this punch, follow the directions given 
for ** Rocky Mountain Punch *' as to mixing, 
sweetening, cooling, and serving. 

Ingredients and proportions for a party of 
twenty : 3 bottles of champagne ; 1 bottle of pale 
sherry; 1 bottle of cognac; 1 bottle of sau- 
terne; 1 pineapple, sliced and cut in small 
pieces ; 4 lemons, sliced. 

Philadelphia Fish-House Punch 

Mix together, adding ice, Vs P^^ ^f lemon 
juice ; % pound of white sugar dissolved in suf- 
ficient water ; y^ piiit of cognac brandy ; % pint 
of peach brandy ; Vi V^^ of Jamaica rum ; 2^ 
pints of cold water. 

The Spread-Easle Punch 

Mix 1 bottle of Islay whiskey; 1 bottle of 
Monongahela; lemon peel, sugar, and — ^boiling 
water as desired. 

For a social entertainment observe sugges- 
tions made as to boiling water under the head- 
ing *' Cold Whiskey Punch. '^ 

La Patria Punch 

Slice into a bowl 4 oranges and 1 pineapple ; 
pour in 1 bottle of cognac brandy; then add 3 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS m 

bottles of champagne, iced, and serve immedi- 
ately. Follow directions given under ** Bocky 
Moimtain Pimch '* as to icing. This quantity 
is the allowance for ten persons. 

Rochester Punch 

Mix 2 bottles of sparkling catawba ; 2 bottles 
of sparkling Isabella; 1 bottle of sauteme; 2 
wineglassfuls of maraschino; 2 wineglassfuls 
of curaQoa. 

Flavor with strawberries in season, or, other- 
wise, a few drops of extract of peach or vanilla. 
Ice in a cooler. This recipe makes a quantity 
suflScient for a small entertainment. 

Non-Such Punch 

For Bottling 

Mix 6 bottles of claret; 6 boitles of soda- 
water; 1 bottle of brandy; 1 bottle of sherry; 
y2 pint of green tea ; juice of three lemons ; ^ 
of a pineapple cut up in small pieces. 

Sweeten, strain, and bottle inmiediately. 
Keep for a month at least, and ice before 
serving. 

Canadian Punch 

Mix 2 quarts of rye whiskey; 1 pint of Ja- 
maica rum; 6 lemons, sliced; 1 pineapple, 
sliced ; 4 quarts of water. Sweeten, and ice for 
a 8xnall entertainment. 



f 04 BTOONG AND SERVING DRINKS 

Tip-Top Brandy 

Mix thoroughly in a small punch-bowl 1 bot- 
tle of champagne; 2 bottles of soda-water; 1 
liqueur glass of curaQoa; 2 tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar; 1 slice of pineapple, cut up. 
Serve iced, in champagne goblets. Allowance 
for five persons. 

Bimbo Punch 

Cut 6 lemons into thin slices, and steep in 1 
quart of brandy for six hours. Eemove the 
lemons without squeezing. Dissolve 1 pound 
of loaf sugar in 1 quart of boiling water and 
add it while hot to the brandy and 1 gill of ar- 
rack. Let it cool, ice and serve. 

Cold Ruby Punch 

Dissolve 1 pound of loaf sugar in 3 pints of 
green tea; add 1 quart of Batavia arrack; 1 
quart of port wine ; juice of 6 lemons ; i^ of a 
pineapple cut in small pieces, and ice. 

Imperial Arrack Punch 

Slice 6 lemons, quite thin, and steep for six 
hours in 1 quart of old Batavia arrack. Then 
remove the lemons without squeezing. Dis- 
solve 1 pound of loaf sugar in 1 quart of boil- 
ing water, and add hot to the arrack. Should 
be cooled and thoroughly iced before serving. 

This makes an excellent liqueur. Arrack 



BIOXING AND SERVING DRINKS 105 

provides a fine flavor for pimch, but is rarely 
put to any other use in America. Most of the 
arrack sold in America is imported from Ba- 
tavia. 

Arrack Punch 
Ponr together 2 wineglassf uls of Batavia ar- 
rack (old) I and 3 wineglassf uls of Jamaica rum, 
and sweeten with loaf sugar dissolved in hot 
water. Add the juice of 2 lemons (or substitute 
limes, if preferred) and an equal quantity of 
water — six glasses. This recipe furnishes three 
glasses of punch. 

Nuremberg Punch 

Take 2 or 3 oranges and pare some of the 
peel very thin. Press the juice of the oranges 
through muslin into V^ pound of loaf sugar; 
add the pared peel. Pour on this 1 quart of 
boiling water, and Vg quart of Batavia arrack; 
add 1 bottle of French red wine, hot, but not 
boiling, and stir. Sometimes white wine is 
used, but red is preferred. 

This punch is excellent cold, and improves 
with age. 

Soyer's Gin Punch 

Mix ^ pint of old gin ; 1 gill of maraschino ; 
the juice of 2 lemons; the rind of % a lemon; 
4 ounces of syrup; 1 quart bottle of German 
seltzer, and ice. 



f06 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

United Service Punch 

Take 6 lemons and y% poimd of loaf Bngar, 
and with the latter rub off the peel of 4 of the 
lemons. Then dissolve the sugar in 3 pints of 
hot tea, add juice of all the lemons, V^ pint of 
arracky and 1 pint of Jamaica rum. Serve cold. 

Pineapple Punch 

Brandy punch, with the addition of sliced 
pineapple, is sometimes called pineapple punch. 
Another way of making it is to mix in a glass 
bowl 2 pineapples, sliced, with l^ pound of 
sugar, letting it stand until the pineapple has 
thoroughly absorbed the sugar, then add 1 pint 
of Jamaica rum ; 1 pint of brandy ; 1 gill of cura- 
Qoa ; juice of four lemons. Sweeten, and again 
let it stand in ice for an hour, then add 4 bottles 
of champagne, sliced orange, and other fruits 
in season. Serve in champagne glasses. This 
recipe will allow enough for ten persons. 

Royal Punch 

Mix together 1 pint of hot green tea; ^ pint 
of brandy ; % pint of Jamaica rum ; 1 wineglass- 
f ul of curagoa ; 1 wineglassf ul of arrack ; juice of 
2 limes ; a slice of lemon ; white sugar to taste, 
and 1 gill of warm calf 's-foot jelly (or substi- 
tute for the jelly the well-beaten whites of 2 
^gs). Drink very hot. This makes an excel- 
lent concoction for a small party, but if too 



NDONG AND SERVING DRINKS 107 

strong more tea may be added. The tea coua- 
teracts the intoxicating tendency of the spirits^ 
while the jelly softens the effects of other ele- 
ments. 

Century Club Punch 

Mix 1 pint of old Santa Cruz ram; 1 pint of 
old Jamaica rum; 5 pints of water, and add 
lemon juice and sugar to suit the taste. 

English Milk Punch 

For Bottling 

To 2 quarts of water add 1 quart of milk. 
Then mix 1 quart of old Jamaica rum and 2 
quarts of French brandy, and pour the two mix* 
tures together, stirring for a short time. Let 
it stand for an hour, then filter through blotting- 
paper into bottles. If the punch is not clear 
after filtering, add a small portion of isinglass 
to each bottle to clarify. 

This recipe will make six bottles. 

California Milk Punch 

For Bottling 

In a clean demijohn put the following in- 
gredients : The juice of 4 lemons ; the rind of 2 
lemons ; V^ pound of white sugar, dissolved in 
just sufficient hot water; 1 pineapple, peeled, 
sliced, and pounded; 6 doves; 20 coriander 
seeds; 1 small stick of cinnamon; 1 pint of 
braiidy; 1 pint of Jamaica rum; 1 gill of Ba- 



f OB BnXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

tavia arrack, 1 cupful of strong green tea, and, 
lastly, 1 quart of boiling water; cork, to pre- 
vent evaporation, and steep for six hours or 
more ; then add 1 quart of hot milk, and the juice 
of 2 or more lemons ; mix, and filter through a 
jelly-bag (unless to be served at once). When 
the punch has passed bright, cork tightly in 
bottles. Ice before serving. 

Oxford Punch 

Bub sugar on the rinds of 3 lemons till the 
necessary oil is drawn out. Take 2 more 
lemons and 2 oranges, and cut the peel off fine. 
Add the juice of 6 lemons and 4 sweet oranges, 
and 6 glasses of calf *s-foot jelly, and stir the 
whole together thoroughly in a jug. Then add 
2 quarts of boiling water, sweetened with suffi- 
cient sugar ; dissolve, and let it stand for twenty 
minutes. Strain through a fine sieve into a 
large bowl ; add, stirring well, 1 pint of cognac 
brandy; 1 pint of old Jamaica rum; 1 quart of 
orange shrub; y^ pint of sherry; 1 bottle of 
CapUlaire. 

A favorite -punch with the University stu- 
dents at Oxford. 

Punch & la Romaine 

Dissolve 2 pounds of powdered sugar in the 
juice of 10 lemons and 2 sweet oranges, and 
add the thin rind of 1 orange; strain through 



IMDONG AND SERVING DRINKS 109 



a sieve into a bowl, and add gradually the 
whites of 10 eggs beaten to a froth. Place the 
bowl on ice for a while, then stir in briskly 1 
bottle of rum ; 1 bottle of wine. 
This supplies punch for fifteen persons. 

Duke of Norfolk Punch 

For Bottling 

Pare very thin the rinds of 6 lemons and 3 
oranges, and put this with the juice from all 
into a vessel with a close-fitting lid. Pour on 
2 quarts of brandy; 1 quart of white wine; 1 
quart of milk, and add 1^^ pounds of sugar, al- 
ready dissolved in water. After mixing thor- 
oughly, cover close for twenty-four hours. 
Then strain clear, and bottle. 

Tea Punch 

Infuse into 1 quart of boiling water 1 ounce 
of best green tea. Heat thoroughly a silver or 
other metal bowl, and place in it i^ pint of good 
brandy ; % pint of rum ; i/4 pound of loaf sugar 
dissolved in water, and the juice of 1 large lemon ; 
first obtaining the oil of the lemon peel by rub- 
bing with a few lumps of the sugar. Set the 
contents of the bowl on fire ; and while flaming 
pour in the tea gradually, stirring constantly. 
While it still burns, ladle into glasses. The 
punch will not bum so long if a china bowl in- 
stead of metal is used. 



no MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 



Gothic Punch 

In 4 bottles of still catawba wine, and 1 
bottle of olaret, dissolve 10 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, and add the juice of 3 oranges. After 
mixing in a punch-bowl,, set in ice for an hour 
or more, and then add 1 bottle of champagne. 

Punch & la Ford 

For Bottling 

Take 3 dozen lemons with smooth rinds, and 
peel the yellow rinds off quite thin with a sharp 
knife, placing in an earthen vessel; add 2 
pounds of loaf sugar, and stir thoroughly for 
nearly half an hour with a fliat piece of wood, 
to extract the oil. Pour boiling water on, and 
stir until the sugar is completely dissolved. 
Then cut and squeeze the lemons, straining the 
juice from the pips. Place the pips in a jug 
and pour boiling water upon them to obtain the 
mucilage which surrounds them. Next pour 
% of the lemon juice into the syrup, strain the 
water from the pips, and add it also to the 
syrup, taking care that the syrup is not too 
watery. Add sugar or lemon juice, to suit the 
taste. Lastly add and stir in 1 pint of cognao 
and 1 pint of old Jamaica rum to every 3 quarts 
of the lemonade, and bottle. 

If kept in a oool oellar this punch improves 
by age. 



HDONG AND SERVING DRINKS III 

Punch Jelly 

Dissolve 3 ounces of isinglass in V^ pint of 
water, boiling; add while hot to 1 quart of 
punch a la Ford, and pour into jelly-mouldSy 
leaving undisturbed until the jelly is completely 
set. 

Orange, lemon, or calf*s-foot jelly can be 
made into punch jelly, by using punch a la Ford 
in a similar manner, made with less lemon juice. 

Punch jelly is very deceptive, its strength 
not being appreciated when one is partaking 
of it. 

Dry Punch 
For Bottling 

Dissolve 11/^ pounds of loaf sugar in sufficient 
water, and mix well with the following ingredi- 
ents : 2 gallons of brandy ; 1 gallon of water ; i^ 
gallon of strong green tea; 1 pint of Jamaica 
rum ; ^ pint of curagoa ; juice of 6 lemons. 

For straining, etc., follow the directions for 
punch & la Ford, adding more sugar and 
lemon juice, if desired. Bottle, and keep on ice 
for three or four days at least. The longer it 
stands, the better. 

Reeent^s Punch 

Mix thoroughly in a punch-bowl 1% pints of 
Strong green tea (hot) ; 1^ pints of lemon juice ; 
1^ pints of Capillaire; 1 pint of Jamaica ram; 



fI2 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

1 pint of brandy; 1 pint of Batavia arrack; 1 
pint of cnraQoa; 1 pineapple (sliced), and 2 or- 
anges (sliced). Just before serving, add 1 bot- 
tle of champagne, and ice. 

Nectar Punch 

Cut oflF the peel of 15 lemons very thin and 
infuse for forty-eight hours with 1^ pints of 
rum. Add to the infusion 2 quarts of cold 
water, 3 more pints of the rum, the juice of the 
lemons, 2 quarts of milk, boiling hot, and 
nutmeg, grated. Let this mixture stand for 
twenty-four hours, closely covered; then add 
2^ pounds of sugar, and strain through flannel. 
Then bottle, and it is ready for use. 

Oranse Punch 

With % of a pound of loaf sugar in 3^ pints 
of boiling water, infuse the peel of 2 and the 
juice of 4 oranges for half an hour ; strain, and 
add % pint of rum ; % pint of brandy ; 14 V^^ 
of porter; add more sugar if desired. A 
liqueur-glass of curagoa, noyau, or maraschino 
will improve the flavor. 1^ pints of either rum 
or brandy may be used instead of taking both. 

Excellent lemon punch is similarly made by 
substituting lemons for oranges. 

Wedding Punch 

In 1 pint of strong brandy rub 6 grains of 
vanilla and 1 grain of ambergris thoroughly 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 113 

with % pound of sugar, and add 14 pii^t of boil- 
ing water. Pour into a corked bottle and let 
it stand for a few hours, shaking occasionally. 
Then add ^ pint of pineapple juice ; 1 pint of 
lemon juice, and 1 bottle of claret or port wine ; 
filter through flannel, and, lastly, add 1 pint of 
lemon syrup. 

West Indian Punch 
Follow directions for brandy pimch, adding 
to each glass a little of the syrup and a small 
piece of preserved ginger. 

Barbadoes Punch 

Follow directions for brandy punch, adding 
to each glass 1 teaspoonful of guava jelly. 

Apple Punch 

Slice apples and lemons and lay in alternate 
layers in a china bowl, covering each layer 
thickly with powdered sugar, until the bowl is 
about half filled; then pour a bottle of claret 
over it and let stand six hours. After pouring 
through a muslin bag, it is ready for use. 

Ale Punch 

Mix together 1 quart of mild ale ; 1 glass of 
white wine; 1 glass of brandy, and 1 glass of 
Capillaire, with the juice of 1 lemon and a por- 
tion of the peel pared very thin. Add grated 
nutmeg on the top, and a bit of toasted bread. 



tl4 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

— — i— — w— ^^« I I I ■ ■ ■ - I — —I — ^— <i— pi^»«^>^ 

Cider Punch 

Pare very thin the peel of l^ of 1 lemon 5 pour 
upon it ^ pint of sherry ; add the juioe of the 
lemon ; % pound of sugar, and 1 bottle of dder, 
with a little grated nutmeg. Mix thoroughly 
and place on ice. When cold, add 1 glass of 
brandy and a few pieces of cucumber rind. 

Hot Enslish Rum flip 

Heat 1 quart of ale in a saucepan ; beat up 4 
raw fresh eggs and 4 ounces of moist sugar; 
add 1 teaspoonful of grated nutmeg (or ginger), 
and 1 gill of old rum, and put it all in a pitcher. 
When the ale is near to a boil, put it into another 
pitcher and pour very gradually into the pitcher 
containing the eggs, etc ; stirring briskly mean- 
while to prevent the eggs from curdling. 
Finally pour the contents of the two pitchers 
from one to the other until the mixture is aa 
smooth as cream. 

This recipe will make 1 quart. 

Hot English Ale Flip 

Follow directions for rum flip, only omitting 
the rum, and the whites of two eggs. 

Sleeper 

Boil 6 cloves and 6 coriander seeds with a bit 
of cinnamon in 1^ pint of water. Mix together 
1 gill of old rum ; 1 ounce of sugar ; the yolks of 



i¥Ai 



AND SERVING DRINKS 115 



2 fresh raw eggs, and the juice of ^ a lemon ; 
whisk them all together^ and strain into a 
tumbler. 

White Tiser's Milk 

Mix ly^ gill of applejack; ^ gill of peach 
brandy; ^ teaspoonful of aromatic tincture. 
Then pour in, gradually, 1 quart of pure 
fresh milk, stirring constantly till all is well 
mixed, and sprinkle with nutmeg. Sweeten 
with white sugar to taste, and add the white of 
an egg, beaten stiff. The above recipe is suffi- 
cient to make 1 quart. 

In preparing this beverage for a party of 
twenty, use 1 gallon of milk to 1 pint of apple- 
jack, etc. 

Locomotive 

Heat in a thoroughly clean saucepan 1 claret- 
glassful of red burgundy until it boils, then 
pour it gradually upon 1 tablespoonf ul of genu- 
ine honey, the yolk of 1 fresh raw egg, and 3 
dashes of curaQoa (previously beaten together 
in a mug or pitcher), whisking and stirring the 
materials all the while, in order to prevent the 
egg from curdling. Pour into a large bar-glass, 
add 2 or 3 cloves, and powder a little cinnamon 
on top. 

To make 4 glasses, use 2 ounces of honey ; 2 
pony-glassfuls of curagoa; 1 quart of high red 
burgundy, and a few drops of essence of cloves. 



$16 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

Follow the same directions and pour into 
large heated glasses. 

Sherry and Bitters 

Put 1 dash of bitters into sherry wineglass, 

twisting the glass around until the bitters 

cover the whole surface, and fill with sherry 

wine. 

Sherry and Ese 

Into a small bar-glass pour 1 wineglassful of 
sherry, and into this break 1 fresh egg. 

Sherry and Ice 

Put into a small bar-glass 2 or 3 small lumps 
of ice and fill with the desired quantity of wine. 

Brandy Straight 

Brandy, whiskey, or gin is served '* straight ** 
by simply putting a piece of ice into a small bar- 
glass and pouring in the desired quantity of 
liquor from the bottle, having a separate glass 
of ice water at hand for a ** chaser.'* 

Pony Brandy 

Pour into a small bar-glass 1 pony-glassful of 
best brandy, and serve with ice water in a sepa- 
rate glass. 

The bartender's way of serving this drink is 
to fill to the brim a pony-glass of brandy, cover 
it with a bar-glass, then press both glasses 
tightly together and turn them over quickly, so 



MDONG AND SERVING DRINKS U7 

that the pony-glass will remain upside down in 
the bar-glassy without a drop of the brandy es- 
caping. 

Brandy and Soda 

Put into a large soda-water glass, 1 wineglass- 
fnl of brandy, 2 or 3 small lumps of ice, and fill 
with a bottle of plain soda-water. Stone Wall 
is another name for ** B. & S." 

Brandy and Ginger Ale 

Put into a large soda-water glass 1 wineglass- 
ful of brandy, 2 or 3 small lumps of ice, and fill 
with Irish ginger ale. 

Split Soda and Brandy 

Put into a bar-glass of medium size 1 pony- 
glassful of brandy, 1 small lump of ice, and ^ 
bottle of plain soda-water. 

Rhine Wine and Seltzer Water 

Pour Bhine wine into a large bar-glass until 
half full, then add 2 small lumps of ice, and fill 
with seltzer. 

Shandy Gaff 

Fill a large bar-glass, or mug, with half ale 
and half Irish ginger ale. 

This drink came from England, where it is 
made with Bass' ale and ginger ale, half and 
half. 



118 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

— ■ I - ■■ --I — ..^^^--^-^^p. 

Brandy and Gum 

Put in a small bar-glass 2 dashes of gum 
syrup, 1 small lump of ice, and pour desired 
quantity from the brandy bottle. Serve ice 
water in a separate glass. 

Half and Half 

According to the American style, mix together 

half old and half new ale in a stone or metal 

bar-mug. 

* ••Arfand Arf 

The English way is to mix porter or stout 
and ale in equal parts, or to suit the taste. The 
caution is familiar, — *' Draw it mild, Mary; the 
ale first.*' 

Rock and Rye 

Stir well together in a small bar-glass 1 table- 
spoonful of rock-candy syrup, and 1 wineglass- 
ful of rye whiskey. A common remedy for a 

cold. 

Stone Tence 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 wineglassful of 

Bourbon or rye whiskey, 2 or 3 small lumps of 

ice, and fill with sweet cider. 

Absinthe and Water 

Fill an absinthe-glass (made purposely with 
a hole in the bottom) with shaved ice and water. 
Baise this glass about one foot above a large 
bar-glass containing 1 pony-glassful of ab- 



MDONG AND SERVING DRINKS U9 

ainthe, and allow the desired qnantity of water 
to drip into it. 

French Method of Servlnn: Absinthe 

Pour 1 pony-glassful of absinthe into a cham- 
pagne glass standing in a bowl, and let the water 
drip into this from the absinthe glass until a 
very little runs over into the bowl. 

White Plush 

Pour into a small bar-glass the desired qnan* 
tity of Bourbon or rye whiskey, and fill the glass 
with fresh milk. 

The following amusing anecdote is quoted 
from the New York Herald: 

^^ There are some mixed drinks that are 
standbys, and are always popular, such as 
cocktails, punches, and juleps ; but every little 
while there will be a new racket sprung on the 
public that will have a great run for a time, and 
then get knocked out by another. About a 
month ago white plush got its start in this way : 
There was a country buyer down from New 
England somewhere, and a party of dry-goods 
men were trying to make it pleasant for him. 
So they took him into a swell barroom down 
town, and were going to open some wine. Same 
old story, you know; get him full as a balloon 
and then work him for a big order. It turned 
out that this countryman was not such a flat as 



120 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

they thought him. Though he had been swig- 
ging barrels of hard cider and smuggled Canada 
whiskey for the last twenty years, he pleaded 
the temperance business on them ; said he never 
drank, and he guessed he 'd just take a glass of 
water if they'd git him one, as he was kinder 
thirsty walkin' round so much. Well, that was 
a set-back for the boys. They knew he had lots 
of money to spend, and he was one of those un- 
approachable chaps that have got to be warmed 
up before you can do anything with them. 

^^ ^ Oh, take something, ' they said; ^ take some 
milk.' 

* * * Well, I guess a glass of milk would go 
sorter good, ' said he. 

^' Some one suggested koumiss and told him 
what it was. As they did not have any koumiss 
in the place they gave him some milk and seltzer. 
That's about the same thing. One of the boys 
gave the bartender a wink and he put a dash 
of whiskey in it. The old man did not get on to 
it all. He thought it was the seltzer that fla- 
vored it. The next round the seltzer was left 
out altogether and more whiskey put in. They 
kept on giving it to him until he got pretty well 
set up. It's a very insidious and seductive 
drink. Pretty soon the countryman got funny 
and tipped his glass over on the table. As it 
spread around he said : 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 121 

** * Gosh, it looks like white plush, don't it! ' 
** * So it does,' said the boys. * Give the 
gentleman another yard of white plush, here;' 
and the name has stuck to it ever since." 

Boonekamp and Whiskey 

Mix in a small whiskey-glass, in quantities to 
suit the taste, whiskey, Boonekamp bitters, and 
ice water. As an occasional tonic this mixture 
is recommended. 

** Jerry Thomas' " Own Decanter Bitters 

Mix 14 pound of raisins, 2 ounces of cinnar 
mon, 1 ounce of snakeroot, 1 lemon and 1 or- 
ange cut in slices, 1 ounce of cloves, 1 ounce of 
allspice. 

Bottle and fill decanter with Santa Cruz rum, 
refilling with the rum as fast as the bitters is 
used. Serve in a pony-glass. 

Burnt Brandy and Peach 

Bum in a saucer or plate 1 wineglassful of 
cognac and 2 lumps of white sugar. Pour the 
liquid into a small bar-glass containing 2 or 3 
slices of dried peaches. 

This is a popular drink in the Southern 
States, and is used as a cure for diarrhoea. 

Peach and Honey 

Stir well, in a small bar-glass, 1 tablespoon- 
ful of honey, with 1 wineglassful of peach 
brandy. 



122 MIXING AND SERVING KUNKS 

<— — ^— ■^W— i»^— — ^'— ^■— — ^— I ■^■^■^— — — ^— ^— — i— »» 

Black Stripe 

Pour into a small bar-glass 1 wineglassful of 
Santa Cruz rum and 1 tablespoonful of mo- 
lasses. 

In warm weather add 1 tablespoonful of 
water, and cool with shaved ice ; in cold weather 
fill the glass with boiling water. Grate a little 
nutmeg on tOp. 

Gin and Pine 

Split from the centre of a green pine log 
pieces the size of a lead-pencil, and put 2 ounces 
of the same into a quart decanter filled with gin. 
After the pine has soaked for two hours, the gin 
will be ready to pour into wineglasses. 

Gin and Tansy 

Fill a quart decanter with one-third tansy 
and the balance gin. Pour into a wineglass. 

Gin and Wormwood 

Into a quart decanter put 5 or 6 sprigs of 
wormwood and fill with gin. This is taken in 
a small bar-glass as a sort of bitters, in the 
country, where it is considered a good tonic. 

Sack Posset 

Sir Walter Raleigh's Recipe 

Boil together y^ pint of sherry and ^ pint 
of ale, and add gradually 1 quart of boiling 
cream or milk. Sweeten the mixture weU| and 



MDONG AND SERVING DRINKS 123 

flavor with grated nutmeg. Put it into a heated 
dish, cover it over, and let it stand by the fire 
two or three hours. — ^Lady Mallet's recipe: 
Break 18 new-laid eggs into a bowl, and care- 
fully remove the specks. Beat the eggs till 
they are lightly frothed. Boil 1 quart of cold 
and 1 pint of boiled sack (or sherry) with % 
of a pound of sugar, and a little grated nutmeg. 
Skim the liquor carefully, and when it has 
boiled a few minutes, stir it off the fire for a 
minute, then add it gradually to the beaten eggs. 
Stir the preparation over a gentle fire till it be- 
gins to thicken, pour it quickly from one vessel 
to another till quite smooth, and then serve. 
— ^Master Budstone 's recipe : Take 1 quart of 
sherry or brandy, and boil it with 14 ^^ ^ V^^ 
of ale and % of a pound of sugar. Skim it 
well, then mix it gradually with the well-beaten 
yolks of 2 and the whites of 16 eggs. Let the 
mixture cool till the eggs thicken, then stir 
in 3 pints of milk or cream which have been 
boiled down to a quart. Pour it quickly from 
one vessel to another till it is quite smoothi and 
then serve. 

Rum and Milk 

Bum and milk, the first thing in the morning 
or else twice a day, is strongly recommended as 
of the greatest service in eases of consumption. 
It is often almost as efficadous as ood-liver oil^ 



124 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

It may be taken with bread and butter, as a 
mealy at breakfast and tea, if these times are 
preferred by the invalid. The usual quantities 
at each period are 1 tumblerful of rich milk, 
1 tablespoonf ul of old rum, and a little sugar. 

Spiced Wine 

Make several incisions in the rind of 1 lemon, 
stick cloves in the incisions, and roast the lemon 
by a slow fire. Put small but equal quantities 
of cinnamon, cloves, mace, and allspice into a 
saucepan with ^ a pint of water. Let it boil 
till it is reduced one-half. Boil a bottle of 
port wine; bum a portion of the spirit out of 
it by applying a lighted paper to the sauce- 
pan. Put the roasted lemon and spice into the 
wine, stir it up well, and let it stand near the 
fire for ten minutes. Rub a few knobs of sugar 
on the rind of a lemon, put the sugar into a 
bowl or jug with the juice of % a lemon (not 
roasted), pour the wine into it, grate some nut- 
meg into it, sweeten to taste, and serve with the 
lemon and spice floating in it. Oranges are 
sometimes used instead of lemons. 

White-Wine Whey 

Take ^ pint of new milk and dilute it with an 
equal quantity of hot water ; boil both together, 
and while boiling pour in at the moment 2 
wineglassfuls of white wine. A curd will form, 



\,:^i 



AND SERVING DRINKS 125 



which, after the mixture is boiled for two or 
three minutes, will settle at the bottom of the 
saucepan. Strain the whey carefully from the 
curd ; it should be perfectly clear. Sugar may 
be added to please the taste. ^' Warm white- 
wine whey promotes perspiration, and hence it 
is useful in the commencement of some com- 
plaints ; but taken cold it has a different effect, 
and often in cases of low fever it is an excellent 
beverage; also in the early stages of convales- 
cence it is as safe and sufficient a stimulant as 
can be given.'* 

White- Wine Neffus 

Extract the juice from the peel of a lemon 
by rubbing loaf sugar upon it, or cut the peel 
of a lemon very thin and pound it in a mortar ; 
cut 2 lemons into thin slices, add 4 glassfuls of 
calf 's-foot jelly in a liquid state, and small quan- 
tities of cinnamon, mace, cloves, and allspice. 
Put the whole into a jug, pour 1 quart of boil- 
ing water upon it, cover the jug closely, let it 
stand a quarter of an hour, and then add a bot- 
tle of boiling white wine; grate i/^ a nutmeg 
into it, stir it well together, and sweeten to taste* 



STOET OF THE WINES 

OBIQIN AKD HISTOBY 

The origin of the use of wine undouhtedly 
dates back to the dawn of civilization, although 
historians of the earliest ages fail to give us 
definite data on the subject. At a very remote 
age it was a familiar beverage with the Chi- 
nese, as we glean from their history. Tradition 
tells us that wine was first made by an ingenious 
agriculturist named I-tye during the reign of 
Emperor Yu, over 2000 years b. c. It is 
claimed that I-tye was a descendant of Noah's, 
through his son Shem. It is further claimed 
that Noah himself, being dissatisfied with the 
party formed to build the tower of Babel, sepa- 
rated from them, and with a number of follow- 
ers travelled eastward and finally entered the 
confines of the Chinese Empire, which he as- 
sisted in founding. Undoubtedly the Chinese 
have developed the products of the vine to as 
large an extent as any one. From China this 
development probably worked its way west- 
ward, reaching India and Persia on its way to 
the later civilizations in Egypt, Greece, and 

126 



STORY OF THE WINKS 127 

Borne. According to the Odyssey wine was 
very well known to the Greeks, as it probabV 
had been to the central Asians generally. 

The finest wine of the Greeks, as adjudged by 
their connoisseurs, reached them from the 
islands of the Ionian and ^gean seas. The 
climate there was ideal and led to the develop- 
ment of the most delicate vintages. Later, 
in Italy, particularly during the Augustan 
period, the proper maturing of wines was a 
long process, taking twenty years, if need be, 
as the old Bomans would have none but ripe 
vintages. Wines obtained their market value, 
as a rule, through the patronage of big people, 
whose simple declaration that certain vintageA 
were superb immediately ran up the price and 
ensured the fortune of the vineyard. But 
wines were usually sold at the wine fairs. All 
aorts of things were done to mislead the buyer. 
Free plates of sharply flavored nuts were pro- 
vided, and the customers had their taste dulled 
by eating these. We see that the free lunch 
goes back to antiquity. It was also common to 
deceive by putting out the wines for sale in re- 
ceptacles once filled with high-grade tipple, 
which had the effect of making new wines 
seem old. A strong prejudice existed against 
these practices, and reputable venders did not 
resort to them. 



128 STORY OF THE VINES 

If a wine-grower once got the reputation of 
dealing squarely, he could always get his price. 

Some wines were so costly that they were 
used with water, or mingled with cheaper 
grades, to make the latter more delicate. The 
most favored guest always was given the largest 
helping of this special wine; the host had the 
pouring out, and his liberality was in propor- 
tion to his regard for his guest. 

Large cellars were the exception in the days 
of classic Bome ; people of moderate means had 
no room for them. This caused the institution 
of public cellars where wine could be deposited 
by householders, and also purchased. The gov- 
ernment ran these cellars, thus giving a cer- 
tain prestige to wine-drinking, and also min- 
imizing prices. 

If the common people thus got good wines 
through a paternal government, the aristocracy 
had cellars loaded with wines of the highest 
grade and value. Rarity and delicacy were the 
points insisted on in these cellars, and the value 
of the contents was increased in various ways ; 
spicing and perfuming wines was carried to a 
fine art, and often at vast cost, as the materials 
used were frequently expensive and difficult to 
obtain. This fashion of keeping cellars of im- 
mense value reached an extraordinary pitdi in 
Greece and Bome. Fortunes were sunk in this 



STORY OF THE VINES 129 

desire for display; nor was it the wine itself 
only that cost, but the glasses from which it 
was drunk. These were cut and carved in the 
most exquisite fashion; and cups of gold and 
silver, besides being beautiful works of art, 
were inlaid with rare stones. Size was a char- 
acteristic of drinking vessels, and they were fre- 
quently given away as marks of special favor. 
Glass was enormously costly. Even the poorest 
people took pride in the quality of their cups. 
These were usually earthenware or ivory, 
carved. The clay cups were perfumed finely. 
The murrhine was a favorite aristocratic per- 
fumed cup. It was also supposed to have the 
virtue of exposing poison put in the wine. It 
was a brilliantly colored vessel, combining 
myriad hues which seemed to intermingle and 
curiously hold the glow of exterior light. 

The value of individual cups depended on 
their having the quality of a broad and close 
veining, and not being either translucent or 
faint in color. The murrhine cup was originally 
a sacred vessel, but later came into general use 
among very rich people. 

There comes down to us from the Persians 
a legend of the origin of wine which is so 
reasonable that it is quite probable. Abul 
Nasin Mansur, in his ^VShahnamah," tells how 
Jemsheed, who was very fond of grapes, had 



130 STORY OF THE "WINES 

caused to be prepared and stored a quantity 
of pure grape juice. Some time later, being 
thirsty, he had brought to him one of the jars, 
meaning to have a refreshing drink. By this 
time, however, the process of fermentation had 
set in, and the juice was not pleasant to his 
taste. Notwithstanding, however, he drank 
heartily, with the natural result — ^abad stomach- 
ache. He then concluded his foresight had re- 
sulted in nothing more nor less than a dan- 
gerous liquor, and to prevent any one else mak- 
ing the same mistake he labelled each jar 
* ' Poison. ' ' It was doubtless necessary for the 
sake of the legend to keep him from destroying 
it. This ** Poison *' was some time thereafter 
come upon by one of his wives, who wished to 
commit suicide, having lost favor with her lord. 
She drank heartily also, but instead of putting 
out the light of life, it simply kindled the flame 
anew. Her sorrow was forgotten and trans- 
formed into joy. A second drink removed all 
thought of death, made her drunk, but did not 
kill her. What was better, it renewed her youth 
and enabled her again to come into the good 
favor of her lord, and she retained it by her con- 
stant indulgence in the ' * Poison ' ' until the sup- 
ply was exhausted. One day her husband, so 
the story goes, discovered that the jars were 
empty^ and wrung a confession from the wife. 



STORY OF THE VINES 131 

which was so full of the effects and joy pro- 
duced that he had another quantity prepared, 
and wine was discovered. 

MODEBK WINES 

It is, however, of the modem wines that this 
article will treat. 

Wine is the fermented juice of the grape, or 
the fruit of the vine. Wines are distinguished 
practically by their color, their hardness or 
softness on the palate, their flavor, and as still 
or effervescent. The differences in the quality 
of various wines depend upon the various va- 
rieties of vines, the soils in which they grow, 
the exposure of the vineyard, the treatment of 
the grapes, and in the methods used in manu- 
facture. Alcohol forms the leading character 
of all wines. The strong sherries and ports as 
found in the market contain from 16 to 25 per 
cent. Hock, claret, and other light wines con- 
tain about 7 per cent. The principal modem 
wines embrace port, sherry, Bordeaux, Bur- 
gundy, champagne, madeira, Rhine, moselle, To- 
kay, and Marsala. The principal wine-produc- 
ing countries are France, Germany, Spain, 
Portugal, Italy, Hungary, Greece, and the 
United States, and it is the aim of this article to 
classify them, so that he who indulges may at 
the same time study and eventually locate his 



S32 STORY OF THE WINKS 

favorites, and be able to tell all there is to know 
about them. 

ANALYSIS OF WINBS 

The peculiar vinous flavor of wine, by which 
it is distinguished from all mixtures of ardent 
spirits, is mainly owing to the presence of a 
small portion of the ethereal substance dis- 
covered by Liebig and Pelouze, and designated 
by them oenanthic ether. It is estimated not 
to exceed a forty-thousandth part of the wine. 
It seems to regulate the strength of the flavor 
of wine, or what is called its bouquet ; but the 
quality of flavor peculiar to each sort depends 
upon a volatile oil, either present in the juice 
from the first, or engendered during fermenta- 
tion. (Enanthic ether is probably concerned in 
some way with the intoxicating qualities pos- 
sessed by some wines, such as Burgundy, Her- 
mitage, and Amontillado. 

Wine is found on analyzation to contain the 
following properties : sugar, acid, water, tannin, 
bouquet (oenanthic ether), carbonic acid (in all 
sparkling wines), acetic acid, chlorides (of po- 
tassium and sodium), alcohol, gum, gluten, 
aroma, tartrate of potash, sulphate of potash, 
extractive matter, bitartrate of potash, col- 
oring matter. 



STORY OF THE WINES 133 



THB WINES OF FBANOE 

All eyes turn to France when they become in- 
terested in the vine and its products. It pro- 
duces the best, and also the worst, although 
many people consider its worst better than the 
product of any other country. 

The vine is said to have been introduced into 
France by the Phocseans, between six and seven 
hundred years before the Christian era; prac- 
tically no progress was made, however, until 
the advent of the Romans. During the Middle 
Ages we have no clear and accurate records of 
the advance of the art, except tradition, which, 
of course, cannot be depended upon altogether. 
One fact, however, is indisputable — ^ttiat France 
owes her position among wine-producing coun- 
tries to the Church, for she was, through her 
ownership of the best vineyards, the most pow- 
erful agent in the preservation and maintenance 
of the science of vinification. The knowledge 
of wines possessed by the ** jolly old monks *' 
was not altogether due to the fact that, as great 
drinkers, they were able to acquire the taste for 
only the best, but was largely due to the fact 
that they made it. They studied every phase 
of the work. They planted the vines and cared 
for them, they carried on experiments, and 
tried in every way to master the art. After a 



J34 STORY OF THE WINES 

while their good fortune enabled them to en- 
gage others to do the labor, and in this way was 
the knowledge disseminated. 

THE DISCOVEBY OF CHAMPAGNE 

The nearest we come to the actual facts is 
the tradition that a Benedictine monk, Father 
Perigon, who died in 1715, is the discoverer 
of champagne. His monastery owned the 
largest and the best situated vineyard in 
France. Father Perigon was at the head of 
the vineyard and looked after all details. He 
was noted for his exact knowledge of the science 
of blending wines, and it was during the 
process of blending that he discovered how 
to make wine effervescent. He also made the 
first real cork stopper, so that we are indebted 
to him for the cork as well as the champagne, 
to say nothing of the long tapering glass from 
which the wine is drunk, which it is claimed 
this * * jolly old Dom Perigon ' ' also invented. 

THE PBODUCTION OP CHAMPAGNE 

The champagne country of to-day is no 
longer the ancient Province of Champagne in 
northeastern France, but only the department 
of the Mame, which contains 37,000 acres of 
vineyards, chiefly located in the region about 
Reims, Epemay, Avize, Ay, and Pierry. The 



STORY OF THE VINES f 3S 

vineyards are all situated within a district 
about twenty miles long, from Reims on the 
north to Vertns on the south, and are generally 
classed as '* of the Hill *' (montagne) and ** of 
the River '* (along the Mame). 

This acreage is planted almost exclusively 
with the black grape, although some white 
grapes of extremely delicate bouquet are pro- 
duced on the hillside of Avize. The value of 
the land within this area varies from $400 to 
$4000 per acre, according to the district. 

The distinguishing features of the vineyards 
in the champagne country consist of the closely 
planted vines, about 16,000 stocks to the acre, 
planted two feet apart, and the annual burying 
of the stocks, which develops the small roots 
whilst keeping the grapes near the ground to 
favor their ripening. The labor involved in 
the cultivation is very great, costing between 
$125 and $250 per acre. 

The particular delicacy, freshness, and ele- 
gance of the wines of the champagne country 
are due to the methods employed, the climate, 
the species of grape, and especially to the na- 
ture of the soil. 

THE VINTAGE 

At vintage time the grapes, after being gath- 
ered and sorted, are taken to the press-house. 
There they are examined and only the perfect 



)36 STORY OF THE VINES 

ones are purchased* They are sold by weight. 
When from eight to nine thousand pounds are 
in the press they are immediately pressed so as 
to separate as quickly as possible the juice from 
the pulp, thus preventing the latter from color- 
ing the wine, which would be the case if fer- 
mentation commenced before pressing. 

The result of the first three pressings is the 
" vin de cuvee,*' which will produce the spar- 
kling wine ; the other pressings produce an in- 
ferior article which develops in the cheaper 
varieties. The new wine is then taken to the 
warehouse. 

There it begins to ferment. Originally a 
sugary liquid, it becomes that other result, acid- 
ulated and alcoholic, called wine. The skin of 
the grape is covered with a bloom containing 
an infinite number of micro-organisms, which 
are carried off in the juice, and turn the natural 
sugar of the fruit into alcohol and carbonic-acid 
gas. The latter goes out through the bung* 
hole. As soon as the weather becomes cold 
these ferments lose their activity and the wine 
becomes clear, and is then separated from its 
lees by racking. 

THE OUVEE 

In the spring comes the most delicate opera- 
tion of all— mixing the wines^ or * ^ making the 



STORY OF THE VINES 137 

cuvee," and this is of course the test of his 
ability. To do this successfully the merchant 
must study both his reserves of previous years 
and the various growths purchased last; he 
should know, if he is a real expert, the particu- 
lar bouquet, delicacy, etc., of each growth, and 
these vary from year to year. The result of 
his study enables him to make the combinations 
which produce his * * brand. * ' When this proc- 
ess of blending is completed the result is ready 
for the bottle. This takes place in the spring. 
The wine is put, with a quantity of cane sugar, 
into new bottles. They are then corked and 
sent to the cellars. 

FOBMING THE SPABKLE 

With the first warmth of spring, the fer- 
ments, which had become dormant during the 
winter months, renew their activity. They de- 
compose the natural sugar still remaining from 
the vintage and transform it, and the cane sugar 
which was added at bottling time, into another 
amount of alcohol and carbonic-acid gas. The 
gas this time has no means of escape, and it 
therefore mixes with the liquid, and then we 
have the sparkle. 

The wine, however, is not yet a finished 
product. There are numerous other opera- 
tions. The last fermentation in corked bottles 



138 STORY OF THE WINES 

generates a deposit which settles on the lower 
side of the bottle and nnst be removed. This 
takes two operations called '^ mise sur pointe " 
and the * * disgorgement, ' * respectively. 

THE MISE SUB POINTS 

The bottles are placed, head down, through an 
inclined plank pierced with holes. Every day 
for at least three months, a specially trained 
cellarman shakes each bottle lightly with a 
wrist movement quick and sharp. The deposit 
slowly descends and collects on the cork. 

THE DISGOBGEMENT 

The next trick is to remove the deposit. This 
is accomplished by first placing the bottle, head 
downward, about three inches in a refrigerating 
bath. The cold congeals the deposit in the neck 
of the bottle. Then the bottle is held upright, 
the cork eased, and the carbonic gas inside 
forces out the cork and deposit with a loud 

pop." The wine is then absolutely dear. 



li 



THE LIQUEUBING 

The sugar is now entirely gone, transformed 
into alcohol and carbonic acid. Wine in this 
condition is called '^ Bruf 

To regulate the taste, liqueur is added, con- 
sisting of sugar candy and wine from the 



STORY OP THE WINES m 

finest champagne vineyards immediately after 
disgorging. Then it is known as ' ^ Sec' ' 

The wine is now ready for the final corking 
and shipment. 

Another classification of the champagne is 
according to the sparkle: 

1. Non-monssenx — or non-effervescent. 

2. Cremant — ^moderately sparkling. 

3. Mousseux — sufficiently effervescent to pro- 
ject the cork with an audible report, and to rise 
gently to the mouth of the bottle. 

4. Grand mousseux — strongly effervescent. 
The number of operations, the labor involved, 

and the time required, account thus in a large 
measure for the higher price of champagne over 
other wines of the world. 

Champagne should always be kept on its side. 
It should be served as cold as possible. When 
put on ice care should be exercised or the labels 
will come off, and only what is to be used should 
be cooled, because it detracts from its vitality 
to cool it, and then let it get warm again. It 
may be cooled in a hurry by putting it into a 
freezer with ice packing and turning it a num- 
ber of times. 

The principal brands of champagne, as repre- 
sented on the wine card of one of America's 
greatest hotels, are ; G. H. Mumm, Extra Dry; 
Bouchey Vin Brut; Duminy, Extra Dry; Dno 



140 STORY OF THE VINES 

de MontebellOy Extra Dry; Dry Monopole (Bed 
Top); Monopole (Club dry); Red Cap Chau- 
venet ; Pink Cap Chauvenet ; Moet & Chandon, 
White Seal; Moet & Chandon, Brut Imperial; 
Paul Buinart, Cuvee Beserve Brut; Pom- 
mery, See; Ponunery, Brut; Piper Heidsieck, 
Sec ; Buinart, Vin Brut ; Veuve Clicquot, Yellow 
Label; Veuve Clicquot, Vin Brut; Wachter^s 
Eoyal Charter, Brut. 

A general mistake is the belief that cham- 
pagne is a white wine ; with the exception of the 
Versenay kinds, it is made from dark grapes. 

Champagne is not the only famous wine, how- 
ever, which France produces. It is only one of 
the many. The famous Burgundy district has 
given its name to a wine that was once the rival 
of champagne, but not of recent years. 

The district in which Burgundy wines are 
cultivated lies in the Departments of Yonne, 
Cote-d'Or, and Saone-et-Loire. Going south 
from Dijon, on the railway leading to Lyons, 
we leave on the right a chain of hills lying on the 
arc of a circle reaching from Dijon to Chagny. 
There is the world-renowned C6te-d*0r, con- 
taining the vineyards of Eomanee-Conti, Clos 
de Vougeot, Eomanee la Tache, Chambertin, 
Bichebourg, Musigny, Volnay, Nuits, etc. In 
the estimation of many good judges Burgundy 
is superior to Bordeaux. It possesses a great 



STORY OF THE VINES Ml 

delicacy, a charming bouquet, and a delicious 
flavor. 

The best Burgundies, called " tetes de 
cuvees,^' are made from selected grapes, taken 
from the best localities and exposures. The 
next class, called ' * vins de primeur, ' ' approach 
the first very closely; the greatest difference 
being in the bouquet. Then come ' ^ les bonnes 
cuvees,'' ** les cuvees rondes.^' The grapes 
in general use are the pineau, the noiren, the 
gamay, the chandenay, and the chasselas. 
The larger the quantity produced by the vines, 
the poorer the quality. The common red wines 
of the Cote-d'Or, made from a mixture of all 
the grapes, are called passetout-grains. The 
Hospital of Beaune, founded in 1443, derives 
its principal revenue from the sale of the wine 
made in its vineyards ; and the sale of its wines 
which takes place on the first Sunday in No- 
vember, each year, in a measure fixes the prices 
of the vintage. The place which Burgundy 
wine formerly occupied in society is now taken 
by champagne, and in those parts, for example, 
of Germany, where formerly much Burgundy 
was drunk, now hardly any is found. 

Burgundy should be served at a temperature 
of from 60 to 70 degrees. Great care should be 
exercised in handling so as not to disturb the 
dregs in the bottom of the bottle. Burgundy 



Ml STORY OP THE ^TINES 



when served usually aocompauies the game^ 
course. 

The principal brands of Burgundy to be had 
in the markets are : 

Red. — Macon, Macon Vieux, Beaujolais Su« 
perior, Santenay, Pommard, Nuits, Corton^ 
Musigny-Vougeot, Chambertin. 

White. — Chablis Superior, Chablis Moun- 
tonue, Moutrachet Grand Vin Boyal, Chateau 
Grillet, Meursault 

BORDEAUX WINES 

The different districts in the vicinity of Bor- 
deaux, France, are known as: (1) The M6doc. 
(2) The Graves. (3) The Sautemes, or 
** White Wine'' District. (4) Entre-deux- 
Mers. (5) The St. Emilionais. (6) The Li- 
boumais. (7) The Fronsadais. (8) The 
Bourgeais. (9) The Blayais. 

The wines of Bordeaux are both red and 
white, known as clarets and sauternes respec- 
tively. The principal vines grown are, for the 
red wines, the cabernet, the merlot, and the 
malbec; and for the white wines, the semillon, 
the sauvignon, and the muscatel. 

CLASET 

The process for the vintage of claret is a 
v^ry simple one. The grapes are gathered and 



STORY OF THE WINES 143 



brought to the press-house ; here they are sepa- 
rated from the stalk and placed in vats, where 
they are allowed to ferment for a period of 
from seven to fifteen days. As soon as the 
wine is thus formed, it is drawn off into hogs- 
heads and removed to a light and airy store- 
room. 

Th^ first month the bung is put lightly 
in, and the cask filled up every three or four 
days to replace what has evaporated. The 
second month the bung is put in more firmly, 
and the cask filled every eight days. In six 
months the lees having fallen, the first drawing 
oS takes place, and this operation is repeated 
every three months for a year, after which the 
fillings-up cease. In the second and following 
years after the wine has been removed to dark 
cellars, two drawings-off suffice, one in the 
spring, and the other in the autumn, until fer- 
mentation ceases. 

There are a great many varieties of the red 
Bordeaux or claret; the principal brands, how- 
ever, as handled by the best merchants in the 
United States, are: Medoc Superieur, St. 
Julien, St. Emilion, St. Estephe, Pontet-Canet, 
Chateau Cheval Blanc, Chateau Margaux, Cha- 
teau Montrose, Chateau de Laburthe, Chateau 
Bauzan Segla, Chateau Brune-Cantenac, Cha- 
teau Lafite (Grand Yin), Chateau LagrangOi 



144 STORY OF THE WINES 



Chateau Vin Le Monteil, Chateau Pahner Mar- 
gauXy Chateau Margaux (special), Chateau 
Haut Brion, Chateau Mouton Rothschild. 

Claret should be served at a temperature of 
60 to 70 degrees. Bottles should be handled 
carefully so as not to disturb the sediment. It is 
served with various courses, but generally with 
the entree or releve, and often with dessert. 

SAUTEENES 

Sauteme is the product of what is known as the 
white-wine-producing district of Bordeaux. In 
the vintage of the white wine of Bordeaux the 
grapes are gathered almost one by one, and nbt 
until they have assumed the appearance of rot- 
tenness, or extreme ripeness, so that in fact 
fermentation has commenced before the fruit 
is taken from the plant. The Sauteme grapes 
are white, and of medium size, and 3rield a must 
which does not lose the whole of the sugar dur- 
ing fermentation, but remains sweet without the 
addition of spirits. On gathering the grapes, it 
is customary for the women to cut off the ber- 
ries with scissors as they ripen. The grapes 
are not put into vats, but are carefully pressed 
and the juice put into hogsheads while the fer- 
mentation completes itself. The first result is 
a very sweet luscious wine, known as the tete, 
which is chiefly sent to Russia, where it brings 



STORY OF THE WINES 145 

enormous prices. The second wine is called 
milieu, being made from grapes that are less 
sweet. It is of a drier character, and is gener- 
ally known as sauteme. 

There is also a third process, in which all the 
remaining grapes are mixed together, called 
queue. In the preparation of the better-class 
wines for the markets of England and America, 
the three varieties are generally mixed, in cer- 
tain proportions, so that the santeme which we 
get is very different from the oily article which 
is in such favor in Russia. The character of 
sauteme may be best described as being, in 
good years, very luscious, and yet very delicate, ' 
and having that special taste, which, while it 
remains in the mouth, leaves the palate per- 
fectly fresh. Sauteme should when served be 
of a temperature between 60 and 70 degrees. It 
may accompany the oyster course, or according 
as the scope of the wine list includes few or 
many kinds, if of the best, may accompany the 
dessert. The finer growths of Sauteme com- 
prise the following : Chateau Yquem, Chateau 
de Sur Saluces, Chateau d'Arche, Chateau La- 
tour Blanche, Chateau Loustalade (Dry 
Graves), Haut Sautemes, Haut Barsac, Sau- 
temes, Preignac, Graves. 



146 STORY OP THE WINBS 

^— —^M— J^mmJ— ■*- ■ ■ I ■ ■■■■11 mm^-^^^a^ 

THE WINES OF QEBMANY 

The famous vineyards of Germany are situ- 
ated along the banks of the Rhine. The intro- 
duction of vine culture in Germany occurred 
during Charlemagne's reign. It is narrated 
that this ruler '^ observed from his palace at 
Ingleheim how the snow melted and disappeared 
earlier from the Budesheim hills than from the 
surrounding country, and his mind being at that 
time occupied with the thoughts of wine, he 
selected this site for a vineyard ; and to-day the 
Biidesheitn-Berg produces wine which is the 
standard by which to judge the others." 

Among the Germans, cleanliness in wine-mak- 
ing is all-important, and this is one of the recom- 
mendations of their product. It is absolutely 
clean. 

BHIKE WIKB 

The best wines of Germany are grown on the 
banks of the Bhine near Mainz. The Bheingau, 
in which the choicest descriptions are grown, 
lies on the right bank, and the vineyards of 
Hesse lie on the left. 

The wines of the Bheinhessen, or those grown 
on the left bank of the river, are full-bodied and 
of good flavor, the best growths being Lieb- 
fraumilch, Nierstein, Scharlachberg, and Forst, 
and are considered nearly equal to the growths 



STORY OP THE VIMBS W 

of the E&eingan. Among the famous Bhein* 
gau wines are the Johannisberg, Steinberg, 
Bauenthaly Grafenberg, Bfidesheim, Marco- 
brmm, Geisenheimer, Assmansshausen, and 
Bothenberg. 

Johannisberg is the king of German wines. 
This vineyard is said to have been planted abont 
the year 1009, under the direction of Buthard, 
the Archbishop of Mainz. These vineyards 
were destroyed during the Thirty Years' War, 
but were replanted in 1722. Hochheimer is the 
product of a comparatively small district on the 
banks of the Main. The name, commonly 
Hock, has been known in England for two hun- 
dred years, and no doubt included originally the 
entire body of Bhine wines. 

The wines of Germany are almost exclusively 
white. The best variety of vine is the Biesling, 
and even this does better in the valley of the 
Bheingau than anywhere else. Great care is 
bestowed upon the vintage, which takes place as 
late in the year as possible in order to allow 
the grapes to ripen thoroughly. The wine is 
allowed to ferment in casks instead of vats, as 
in most other countries, which accounts for con- 
siderable difference in the price and quality in 
produce of the same growth and vintage. After 
fermentation the wine is fined and radk:ed into 
vats, which are constantly filled up so that winci 



f 48 STORY OF THE VINES 

improves with age. Several years are required 
to get the wine fit for bottling, as there is 
no fixed period at which fermentation is com- 
plete. 

The finer the wine the longer it takes to get it 
into perfect condition for bottling. Great care 
and attention are given it, and it is frequently 
tested, as condition is the greatest difficulty in 
connection with German wines. 

The triangle between the Moselle, the Saar, 
and the Nahe is the next principal wine-pro- 
ducing district of Germany. The vineyards of 
the Moselle, ** the bride of the Rhine,'* are the 
oldest in the Empire. The Moselle wines are 
distinguished by a remarkably developed and 
pleasant bouquet, which causes them frequently 
to be preferred, particularly by foreigners, to 
Bhine wines. 

The Moselle wines are classified as follows: 
Brauneberger, Piesport (also red), Zeltinger, 
Oligsberg, Dusemont, and Berncastler Doctor — 
the latter being so named because on one occa- 
sion a noble knight, having been given up by his 
physicians, insisted upon finishing one more 
flagon, and after having enjoyed it, recovered 
inmiediately and led his doughty men in many 
a hard-fought fray afterward. 

Bhine wines are to be served at a temperature 
of from 60 to 70 degrees. They are served with 



STORY OF THE WINES 149 

the oysters or with the fish, accordingly as the 
wine programme may be large or small. 

WINES OF HUNGARY 

Hungary still contains productive vineyards, 
but the Tokay, which takes its name from the 
town of that name, is the wine of the district. 
The first Himgarian wines were planted by the 
Emperor Probus, and the Tokay wines were 
known as far back as the fifteenth century ; but 
they did not come into vogue till about the year 
1650, as it was not until that date that the 
present mode of manufacture was adopted. 
The grapes are gathered only after they have be- 
come dry and sweet, almost like raisins. The 
fruit is gathered separately, and the grapes are 
selected and assorted. They are first put into a 
cask, in the bottom of which holes are bored to 
let that portion of the juice escape which will 
run away without pressure. This forms the 
highest quality. The grapes are then squeezed 
for the ordinary wine. The three classes of 
Tokay are known as essentia, ausbruch, and 
mdslds, the first-named being the yield of the 
juice taken without pressure. 

Tokay, as made in the royal vineyards of 
Hungary, is one of the finest wines of the world, 
and only the very wealthy and influential can 
afford to use it. The genuine first product 



W STORY OF THE VINES 

I ■ • ..... 

or essentia never appears in the market 
at all. 

Besides the Tokay, Hungary produces some- 
thing like one hundred different brands of wine, 
but there is a great difference of opinion as to 
their quality, and aside from the Tokay, none 
jM important enough for special mention, 

THE WINES OF POBTXTGAL 
PORT WINE 

One hundred and fifty years ago, in a small 
town of Peso da Begoa, then called Begua only, 
near the confluence of the Corgo with the Douro, 
lived a single fisherman, in a hut which he had 
himself constructed. When the Oporto Wine 
Co. was established, their warehouses were 
erected here, and an annual fair for the sale of 
wine was established. 

Peso da Begoa, the Peso comes from an ad- 
joining village, is now a thriving town, and may 
be considered the Capital of the Alto Douro dis- 
trict (Paiz Vinhateiro de Alto Douro), whence 
are sent to England and elsewhere those wines 
which are here known as port. The wine dis- 
trict is bounded by Villa Beal on the north, 
Lamego on the south, S. Joao da Pesqueira on 
the east, and Mezaof ria on the west. 

The vine is cultivated in Portugal in four 
ways. (1) By being trained round oaks or 



STORY OF THE VINES 151 



« 



poplars de enforcado, as the Romans ulmisqi/^e 
adjungere vites. (3) By the terrace system, 
the best as (1) is the most picturesque. (3) 
By bushes in rows, with the intermediate 
ground ploughed. (4) By the trellis or de 
ramada. The first liquor drawn from the lagar, 
or press, the result of the weight of the grapes 
alone, is called Lacryma Christi. After that a 
gang of men jump into the lagar, and dance to 
the sound of the fife and bagpipe. The weat&er 
is warm, the work is hard ; the result is better 
conceived than expressed. 

Of white wines, the best are Muscatel de 
Jesus (the testimony to religious influence in 
this and the Lacryma Christi is extremely touch- 
ing), considered the prince of all; the Dedo de 
Dama, the Ferral Branco, Malvasia (our malm- 
sey) , Abelhal, Agudelho, Alvaraca, Donzellinho, 
Folgozao, Gonveio, white Mourisco, Rabo da 
Ovelha, and Promissao. Of the black ports the 
finest is Touriga, and the sweetest Bastardo. 
Of dark ports are Souzao, the darkest of all, 
Aragonez, Pegudo, besides Tintas, whose names 
are legion. Other wines grown here, or in the 
immediate vicinity, are Alvarilhao, a kind of 
claret, Alicante, Muscatel, Boxo, and Malvasia 
Vermelha. Great quantities of wine are pro- 
duced in the quintas outside the line of demarca- 
tion, and some of these wines are equal to those 



f52 STORY OF THE WINES 

made in the wine district of the Alto Douro 
itself. Red wines, transformed into French 
clarets at Bordeaux, are exported in large quan- 
tities. A wine from Tarragona, known as 
" Spanish Red,'* or superb Catalan, is sent 
yearly to England, and sold as very full, rich, 
fruity, and tawny port. 

MADEIBA WINES OF PORTUGAL 

One hundred years ago madeira was the im- 
portant wine of the American gentleman's 
table. It was introduced into the Island more 
than 200 years ago. The system of cultivation 
is somewhat peculiar. The vines are trained 
over a latticework of cane about four feet 
from the ground, supported on stakes, and 
the vine-dresser can therefore pass underneath 
and keep the ground clear of weeds. This has 
much to do with the excellent character of the 
wine. The operation of pressing is done in the 
primitive fashion of throwing the fruits into 
large presses and treading out the juices with 
the naked feet. Madeira wine improves much 
with age, and some may be had from fifty to 
one hundred years old. The choicest kinds are 
Malmsey, Sercial, Bual, and Tinta. The char- 
acteristic flavor of madeira is due to the custom 
of submitting it, shortly after manufacture, to a 
high temperature in specially designed build* 



STORY OF THE VINES X53 

ingSy which ripens and mellows it rapidly, and 
prevents refermentation. The temperature at 
which this is done is from lOO"* to 120* Fahr. 

WIOTSS OF SPAIN 

Sherry, as is well known, is the leading Span- 
ish wine, and while the reputation of this wine 
is universal, and it is acknowledged to be the 
grandest wine produced by Spain, it is really 
a modem wine, for sherry, as we know it to- 
day, was first made some time during the six- 
teenth century. 

Sherry, so-called from the town of Jerez 
(Xeres) de la Frontera, is produced in Anda- 
lusia. The system of preparing sherry is dif- 
ferent from that followed in the case of most 
other wines. The diflferent stages of making, 
rearing, and preparing sherry for shipment, as 
well as the vintage and various styles assumed 
by the juice after fermentation, are as fol- 
lows: 

When the grapes are trodden or pressed out, 
the juice, after it has run into large casks, is 
called mosto, and is stored into bodegas (wine 
stores), the produce of each vineyard in its sep- 
arate lot. The mosto is then left to ferment for 
three or four months, when it is poured off from 
the cask in which it has stood, leaving the lees 
or sediment at the bottom. This operation is 



fS4 STORY OP THE WINBS 

^— w— — ww^wiii^^i^;—— II Ml I ■. III! I I II ■ I. 

called '^ racking from the lees/' and what was 
mosto is then called wine. 

DEVELOPMENT 

During the first year or two very extraordi- 
nary changes take place, which are quite unac- 
countable. Wines from the same vineyard, al- 
though subjected to exactly the same treatment, 
develop in different casks totally different char- 
acters. If the research of science could be suc- 
cessfully directed to discover the cause, and 
thus give the means to produce each style of 
wine artificially, the Philosopher's stone would 
indeed be found, and £1 Dorado realized, but 
the wines of themselves, as they grow two or 
three years old, assume different characters 
and are classed Finos, Amontillados, Olorosos, 
and Bastos. 

FINO 

The most valuable character is called FinOi 
being of a delicate, soft, mellow flavor, and very 
pale in color ; but not more than an average of 
about 10 per cent, of the whole produce of a 
vineyard takes this satisfactory turn. 

AMONTILLADO 

A higher dass of development again takes 
place in the Fino, producing Amontillado. This 
18 the mofit valued of all; it has the character of 



STORY OP THE mNBS iSS 



Fino, and in addition a charming flavor of its 
own. It is invaluable in blending, to give a 
finer character and life to heavier wine. 

OLOBOSO 

This is a full, nutty-flavored development, 
rather deep in color and of stouter character. 
When old it is of great body and dry. 

BASTO 

There is yet an inferior development which is 
called Basto (coarse). In good years, however, 
this unsatisfactory character is only shown in 
small quantities, nor does it ever take place to a 
great extent in wines from the best vineyards. 

THE COMPOSITION OF SOLEBAS 

The word solera signifies * * foundation, * ' and 
in this application means old wine kept in casks, 
which are never moved so long as they remain 
as a solera, and on the foundation of which 
younger wines are reared. 

When wines have assumed their distinctive 
characters, and are about five years old, they 
are used for refreshing older wines in the 
soleras. In the shipper's bodegas many soleras 
are kept, each containing a given number of 
butts, whether Fino, Amontillado, Oloroso, or 
otherwise. Each has its distinctive quality. 



m STOftY or THB UNBS 

They have been reared and nnrsed for years 
with great oare^ being critioaUy tasted from 
time to time, and ahonld any deterioration in a 

cask be found, it is at once rejected from the 
solera. By this means the quality is always 
kept np to a standard. 

BSPLEKISHINQ 

When a solera is diminished by shipments, or 
from being used for blending purposes, the 
upper casks are filled np with a younger but 
quite matured wine of similar growth, which, 
after a certain time, assumes the character of 
the older, into which it has gradually fallen. 
Of course this process requires the utmost skill, 
for, if carelessly done, a whole solera, the result 
of many years ' nursing, may be spoiled. 

The system of soleras is likewise carried out 
with other wines grown at Jerez and its vicinity, 
which are either shipped pure by themselves, or 
they are blended in different proportions with 
others, namely : 

Manaanilla, a light wine, grown principally 
at San Lucar, and highly recommended by phy- 
sicians on account of the absence in it of all 
sweet matter. 

Montilla, a \ery dry but powerful wine 
grown near to Cordova, which, when old, is of 
great value. 



STORY or THH IHNBS m 

Vino Dnlce (sweet wine)^ made from the 
sweeter kind of grape called Pedro Ximenez. 
The grapes, when picked, are exposed to the 
son till they become^ almost raisins, and then 
go through the process of pressing and fer- 
mentation. Soleras of Vino Dnlee are of a 
sweet, luscious flavor, and of an oily and 
slightly glutinous consistency. The finer kinds 
resemble a liqueur and are of very great 
value. 

Vino de Color (color wine). Each butt is 
made of six butts of unfermented mosto sim- 
mered down into one, over a slow heat, and 
afterward blended in certain proportions with 
fully fermented white wine. With great age 
this wine becomes very valuable, and is of a 
deep brown color. 

These last two wines are principally used to 
give richness, softness, and color to paler and 
drier growths, when so required, and it is by 
them that the gold-colored and brown sherries 
are produced, which for so long a time have 
been largely consumed at the dinner tables of 
the wealthy in England. 

From what has been said, it will be seen that 
a solera is a mixture of wines of similar growths 
but of different ages. No foreign substance 
such as spirit is added, and it is called 
** natural '' because all its components are ob- 



f^ STORY OF THE VINES 

tained in the ordinary process of natural fer- 
mentation. 

The principal names of brands of sherries 
prepared for the market are: Pale Sherry, 
Table Sherry (dry), Vino de Pasto (medium 
dry), Montesa Pale (full-bodied), Jerezano 
(full-bodied, fruity), Montilla (very dry, pale)^ 
Manzanilla (very dry, light). Amoroso (mellow, 
fruity), Amontillado (soft, dry, delicate), 
Oloroso (nutty, rich, mellow), Amontillado Pa- 
sado (old, soft, dry), Oloroso Solera (old, rich, 
nutty), Pedro Ximenez (liqueur wine). Musca- 
tel (liqueur wine,) Boyal Amontillado (very 
old), Napoleonis Solera, vintage of 1796. 

THE WINES OP ITALY 

From the standpoint of quantity, though not 
of quality, Italy outranks France in the pro- 
duction of wine. The methods and attention 
are crude, owing to the natural indolence of 
the residents of ** Sunny Italy.'' The grapes 
are gathered indiscriminately, often before they 
are ripe, and the quality of the wine is also 
often damaged by gross inattention and un- 
clean methods. There can be no doubt that 
with more care and attention the wines of Italy 
would hold a much higher position than they do 
at present. The best-known wines of northern 
Italy are those of Montferrat and Asti. They 



STORY OF THE VINJUS 159 

are generally light in color, and difficult to keep. 
Some of them are very good. Sparkling wines 
are also produced. 

In central Italy the best wines are those of 
Montepulciano, Chianti, Pomino, Montalcino, 
and Carmignano. Those of Montepulciano have 
a brilliant purple color ajid luscious flavor, 
somewhat sharp and astringent. Those of 
Chianti are red, sweet, but not so aromatic. 

The choicest wines of Italy are produced in 
the Neapolitan district. Of these the best 
known is the Lacryma Christi, a red wine of 
good bouquet and elegant taste; several de- 
scriptions of good Muscat wine, and also a 
Malvoisie. These are grown on the slopes of 
Mount Vesuvius. 

The principal wine produced in Sicily is the 
Marsala. It is a good deal like madeira, with a 
good bouquet, and improves with age. It is the 
result of a mixture of several kinds of selected 
grapes, of the madeira variety. The method 
used in the production of Marsala, as in other 
strong wines, consists in the addition of spirits. 

THE WIKES OF AMEBIOA 

The cultivation of the vine has progressed 
rapidly in the United States in recent years, to 
such an extent that the American product is 
rapidly replacing many foreign varieties. The 



no STORY OF THB WTNtS 

soil of the Paoiflo Slope eeems beet for the 
growths, where the vines were first introduoed 
by the Franciscan fathers. Here again we find 
the Chnroh responsible for an industry which 
seems destined to beoome one of the leading 
industries of Oalifomia. The first variety of 
grape introduced was the <' Mission '^ grape, 
and is supposed to have come from Mezioo. 
Later on the chief varieties of French, Qerman, 
and Spanish were imported, and the tendency 
in America to study the business, and the oare 
that is displayed, have had much to do with the 
success of these experiments. The rapid 
spread of technical knowledge is overcoming 
rapidly the principal difficulties in connection 
with the American growths of European va- 
rieties, the principal defects having been the 
coarseness of the various tjrpes. 

Oalifomia is not, however, alone among the 
States in the production of wine. Ohio, along 
the shores of Lake Erie and the Ohio Biver, 
produces extensively. Champagnes are pro- 
duced in the neighborhood of Sandusky and 
Cleveland which are very good, and the * * spar- 
kling Catawba *' of Nicholas Longworth is pro- 
duced in considerable quantities. New York, 
Missouri, Illinois, and Pennsylvania produce 
large quantities of native wines. In the Eastern 
and Middle States the principal grapes are the 



STORY OP THE in NBS Itt 

Oatowba and Ives aeedlin^^ while in the Sonth, 
the Virginia seedliiiig and the Souppemong 
grapes are the favorites. The grapes in these 
regions resemble those of Qermany andFranoe^ 
containing, howeveTi more aoid and flavor^ 
while those of the Pacifio coast are milder and 
sweeter, and resemble more nearly those of 
Spain. 

The names of the prinoipal Ameriean wines 
are: Olareti Zinfandel, Burgimdy, Hock) Bies» 
ling, Angelica, Oabemet) Sweet Oatawbai 
Sparkling Catawba, Bscapemong, Virginia 
Dare, Tokay, and Muscatel. 

MOD£S29^ WINfiS OF QBfifiCB 

The climate of Greece is especially well 
adapted to the caltivation of the vine. It has 
the side hills on which the vine prospers so 
welL It has a mild climate, which, while 
snnshiny all the year, is so invigorating 
that its various growths come to full develop- 
ment. 

The modem Oreek wines imported into the 
United States are : 

Morea — vintage of 1881. A red table wine, 
tart, from the district of Patras, superior in 
quality, and very pleasant. 

Camerite — ^vintage of 1878. A very dry, red 
wine, from the island of Santorin, containing a 



^ STC»Y OF THE WINHS 

large percentage of tannin, and therefore 
abounding in medicinal qualities. 

Achaier — ^vintage of 1880. A medicinal 
sherry from the district of Patras, containing 
only a small amount of alcohol. 

Mavrodaphne — ^vintage of 1878. This is the 
leading wine of Greece. It contains but 13 per 
cent, of alcohol. 

Odd Malvasier — ^vintage of 1884. This is a 
quite sweet dessert wine from Patras, of won- 
derful aroma and piquant taste. 

Nectar — ^vintage of 1882. A dark red, sweet, 
and light children's wine from Cephalonia. 

Red Malmsey — ^vintage of 1875. Is a dark 
red, heavy, sweet port wine from Patras. This 
is the old classical Malmsey, as used in the 
Church of England. 

Oold Malmsey — ^vintage of 1870. A heavy, 
excellent white dessert wine from Patras. 

Fine Muscato — ^vintage of 1865. White des- 
sert wine from Cephalonia. One of the best to 
be had. 

Cognac — ^vintage of 1870. Is produced in 
Patras, from pure wine, is mild and pleasant. 



STORY OF THB TggS II 

i ^' ! 1 i I 

1 1 K I - 

II II I I 

I . 1 1 M I i I I i 
I V lit it 1 

j li ail SI I 
m ' hM i t i'-f- ml It 



i"a <S 



j|l|l| 



tf a t ^ - '8 

{ft. it.. I I . 

I 1=11, ii'^iP t 



I illillll 11 



gtOKY OP THfc TWWB 

, . fl Hit I 

initiilMiiiP 



■ ii 111 itip 



Hi 



fj 



•til! 



lit JL 

mi ill 






ill I 111 



I I I i Ii i lii 



i I 

a 
II 



IIUllllilMlli!! 



i Mm 




1 i i I I I I I s I 



STORY OF THE TINES 



mini 1 1 1 ! =^il |-|- 






III III III 

^ * i I fi '111 ^ si III' 
I 1 1 M III' I «l -W 
I t ! a^ I hn I If ly 



I 



i I al Id « Hill ili I z 



I II I II ill II 



STORY or THE TINBS 

^ ^H lit! 



1 1 II llOltiilli 
i! ilitiliSiiji! il 



.*sll 1 nil* 



I 



ii,|i|i|i| mil 



1 ifii. I I i I I |S 

^ Iff li: i HI i % 

ili|ijl|lt||!gf| |i|t| |li 
S I III liliilii 



STORY Of THE TINES 

hi 
III 



HI 

ft ■ M tlr 

11' 



11 ' : l& 

Is 



^ifl liltlllllll 



i i I i i Si i I § i 



STORY or THB VINES W9 

^— — ■ I ' IIWI— <——^P——— —I——— —————— ^—g» 

BBAKDY 

The soil of the Charente dope in Franoe is 
partioularly adapted to the growth of Ihe vine, 
although, as in all vine-growing oonntriea, aome 
districts, and even small patches of land^ pro- 
duce finer wine than others. The grapes are 
white, not larger than good-sised currants, and 
the vines seldom bear fruit until four or five 
years from their planting, and are most vig- 
orous at the age of from ten to thirty years. 
Many bear well up to fifty and seventy, and 
some are fruitful at one hundred years or 
more. As a rule the large firms do not distil 
the brandy they sell, but leave that opera- 
tion to the small farmers round about, and 
then blend their products; as, to produce the 
quantity they sell, enormous distilling space 
would be necessary, wine only producing one- 
eighth or one-tenth of alcohol to its bulk. The 
farmer's distillery is very primitive; merely 
a simple boiler with a head or receiver, and a 
worm surrounded with cold water. There are 
generally two of these stills at work, and when 
once the farmer commences making his brandy, 
he keeps on day and night, bivouacking near 
the stills, until he has converted all his wine 
into crude spirit as colorless as water, which 
he carts o£f , just as it is, to the brandy factory 



m STORY OF THB WINES 

for sale. There it is tasted, measured, and put 
into new casks of oak, hooped round with chest- 
nut wood. These casks are branded with the 
date, together with the quality and place of 
growth of the wine from which the brandy was 
distilled, and they remain some time in stock 
before their contents are blended in proportions 
which the firm deem suitable. 

This new spirit is housed on a floor over large 
vats, which are filled from selected casks, the 
spirit being filtered through flannel disks on its 
way. It is then drawn off into casks, which are 
bunged up and stored for several years that the 
brandy may mature, and that the fusel oil may 
develop into the ethyls, which give such a fine 
flavor and fragrance to the brandy. 

SCOTCH WHISKEY 

Scotch whiskey, properly so-called, is all 
made from malted barley through old-fashioned 
pot stills. The product varies, the whiskeys 
being divided into three great classes : 

1. The North Highland Distilleries, of which 
those in Glenlivet and Speyside are the favor- 
ites. The distinguishing characteristic of the 
whiskeys from these distilleries is lightness and 
delicacy of flavor. Ten years ago there were 
only about twenty distilleries in this district, 
but so popular have these whiskeys become that 



STORY OF THE VINES 171 

about thirty more have been or are being 
built. 

2. The West Highland Group comprises 
about ten distilleries in Islay, and twenty in 
Campbeltown. All the whiskeys from these dis- 
tilleries have plenty of flavor, the Islay being 
the fatter kind. 

3. The Lowland Distilleries being more scat- 
tered, their products vary more in flavor and 
style, but they taste less of the peat with which 
the malt is dried as in all Scotch distilleries. 

AMEBICAN WHISKEY 

(Extract from the Dispensatory of the United States) 

Properties. — ^Whiskey, when recently pre- 
pared, is nearly colorless; but when kept in 
casks it gradually acquires a brownish color, 
which deepens with time ; and hence it may be 
found of various shades, from a slight yellowish 
brown tint to the dark brown of brandy. Its 
taste and smell, when mellow by age, though pe- 
cuUar, are not disagreeable. According to the 
pharmacopceia, whiskey is '^ an amber-colored 
Uquid, having a distinctive odor and taste, and a 
slightly acid reaction. Its specific gravity 
should not be more than 0.930, nor less than 
0.917, corresponding, approximately, to an al- 
coholic strength of 44 to 50 per cent, by weight, 
or 50 to 58 per cent, by volume.'' 



172 STORY OP THE WINES 

Wliiskey is a splendid alooholio stimulant^ 
which differs therapeutically from brandy in its 
having less tendency to cause constipation. 
Owing to its cheapness and its customary 
purity, it is usually preferable to brandy as a 
medicinal agent It is also u^ed as an anti- 
septic. 

LIQTTEUBS AKD BITTEB8 

Fine liqueurs are made by macerating aro- 
matic bodies and subsequent distillation; bit- 
ters are made by maceration, followed by 
straining. The most highly esteemed liqueurs 
are: Chartreuse, CuraQoa, Maraschino, Kiim- 
mel, Benedictine, Cherry Brandy, Creme de 
Vanille, Creme de Coco, Creme de Rose, Creme 
de Menthe, Elrschwasser, Absinthe, and Ver- 
mouth. 

Chartreuse, the most famous of all, and so- 
called because it is made at the famous Car- 
thusian Monastery near Grenoble, is of three 
kinds: green, yellow, and white. It is a very, 
complex product resulting from the maceration 
and distillation of balm leaves and tops, with 
orange peel, dry hyssop tops, peppermint, 
wormwood, angelica seed and root, dnnamon, 
mace, cloves, tonquin beans, and cardamom. 

Curagoa, which is a simple liqueur, is made 
chiefly from the dried peel of the CuraQoa oir^ 



STORY OF THE VINES 173 

ange, by maceration and distillation as in other 
liqnenrs. About 1 per cent, of Jamaica mm 
is added to improve the flavor. 

Maraschino is prepared from a variety of 
cherry — the marasca — ^peculiar to the Dalma- 
tian mountain regions. The juice of the cherry 
fermented and distilled yields the spirit, which 
is flavored with the broken cherry kernels. Im- 
itations of the genuine Maraschino are easily 
made with raspberry juice, bitter ahnonds, and 
orange-flower water. 

Kummelj or AUasch, is prepared by macerat- 
ing and distilling caraway seeds, which form 
the body, with bitter almonds, star^anise, an- 
gelica root, Florentine iris, and orange peel. 

Absinthe is the name of an aromatic liqueur 
of an opaline-green and bitter taste. It is pre- 
pared by steeping in alcohol or strong spirit 
bitter herbs, especially ' cultivated. It is con- 
sidered tonic and stomachic. 

Benedictine is a liqueur resembling Char- 
treuse, distilled at Fecamp, in Normandy. It 
was originally prepared by the Benedictine 
monks, from whom it takes the name. 

Cherry Brandy is a liqueur made by flavoring 
spirits with the syrup of cherries. 

Vermouth is a mild liqueur consisting of 
white wine, flavored with wormwood and other 
ingredients. It is prepared chiefly in France 



m STORY OF THE VINES 

and Italy, that of Turin being the most es- 
teemed, and its special use is to stimulate the 
appetite by its bitterness. 

Kirschwasser^ as the name indicates, is made 
from small cherries of a special variety which 
are grown only on the foothills of the Swiss 
Alps. 

Creme de Vanille, Creme de Menthe^ and 
other liqueurs of similar names, are simple 
liqueurs which derive their names from the 
principal flavoring ingredient. 

GIN 

Gin is an aromatic spirit prepared from rye 
or other grain, and flavored with juniper ber- 
ries. The two principal kinds are Dutch Gin or 
Holland, and English Gin, for which the popu- 
lar name is Old Tom. 

BUM 

Bum is spirit distilled from the juice of sugar 
cane in any form, commonly from the refuse 
cane left from sugar-making, but also often 
from molasses. Bum has always been an es- 
pecially American product, the most esteemed 
kinds being made in the West Indies, known as 
Jamaica Bum, Santa Cruz, or by the name of 
the locality in which it is made. 



TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 

OBIGIN OF TOASTS 

To discover the origin of the habit of toast- 
ingy it will be necessary to go back to the most 
remote ages. 

If we may believe some authorities, the 
Greeks were the authors of toasting. It was 
one of their customs to pledge each other. 
They drank to the honor of the gods, their 
friends, and their national heroes. 

Whilst this may have been the earliest period 
at which the toasting habit has been authenti- 
cated, it is doubtful if toasting had not been as 
popular in Nineveh, Babylon, and Thebes as it 
subsequently became in Athens, for the wine 
cup has doubtless been always more or less as- 
sociated with the custom of toastmaking. 

With the Greeks it was customary for one 
of a party, after filling his cup, as he quaffed 
from his libation, to salute some distinguished 
person present with the pledge : * * I wish you 
prosperity. * ' 

The remainder of the contents was then 
offered to the person saluted, who, bowing po- 
litely, partook of the wine, prefacing his action 

175 



t76 TOASTS AND SPEBCHMAKING 

with ^ * I take it kindly of you, ' * or some similar 
phrase. 

A more elaborate ceremony prevailed upon 
formal occasions. At these the cup was passed 
from the toastmaker to his nearest neighbor on 
the right, who in turn passed it on until it had 
gone the round of the circle. The cups grew 
larger in size at each serving, and the toasts 
took the conventional form of, first, ** The 
Gods,'' followed by '* Present Friends,'' '* Mis- 
tresses," and ** Absent Friends." 

The object of the toast changed with the de- 
velopment of the race. In the countries where 
Christianity succeeded paganism the saints and 
the Trinity became familiar pledges, the arch- 
angels, even, sharing in the honors. In the 
early days of the Christian era the response to 
the toast to saint or Supreme Being was 
** Amen." 

At the feasts of the Romans we glean from 
Pliny that toasting was common, but it was the 
Danes and Normans who forced their habits of 
heavy drinking upon the Anglo-Saxons and 
Celts, a practice which carried with it the in- 
evitable accompaniment of toasting. 

It is no longer fashionable to toast any par- 
ticular member of the gentle sex, but toasts to 
** Woman " are most popular wherever con- 
viviality prevails. 



TOASTS AND SPEBCHMAKING 177 

TABLE SPEAKING 

SpeecTimalriTig, like the ability to offer a 
timely toast, is a necessary part of the duties 
which fall to the lot of the man who mingles 
to any extent in society, although the genuine 
orator or speaker is naturally almost as rare 
as the able writer. 

To be able to make a short practical response 
at any time, one must necessarily undergo a 
little training, although a readiness of wit will 
often make up for lack of practice in this direc- 
tion. 

Speeches made at the dinner table are de- 
livered in clear, well-modulated tones, just loud 
enough to be clearly understood, and with the 
expression thrown into the countenance rather 
than accentuated by means of gestures. Loud- 
ness at table would be entirely out of place. 
The wit should be of a subtle, penetrating char- 
acter, and without any apparent effort at 
cleverness. 

One should never be lost on festive occasions 
for a ready jest, a witty story, or even an ex- 
ceptionally good riddle. Depth of meaning is 
not looked for except in speeches from celeb- 
rities, when it is expected that some weighty 
matter will be dwelt upon by the speaker. 

To go to a dinner where there is likely to be 



179 TOASTS AND SPEBCHMAKING 

some speaking and toasting, one should cer- 
tainly be prepared with one or more toasts and 
something novel in the way of anecdote. 

The long speech is one of the unpardonable 
offences of the too-obtrusive guest. Better 
make a thoroughly good apology or excuse and 
refrain from any attempt than to stutter out 
some meaningless phrases. To say a few 
words gracefully should, however, be within the 
scope of the ordinary individual. In these 
days of general social intercourse, such a talent 
becomes almost necessary. 

Most persons are deterred from attempting 
to distinguish themselves in the way of speech- 
making by nervousness and by a dread of the 
sound of their own voice, which is easily over- 
come after the first few efforts. Those who 
desire to essay something of the kind should 
first commit their thoughts to writing, study 
and improve the first effort, and in that way 
get the speech committed to memory, so that 
when delivered it will meet the approval of the 
audience. 

BBSAEFAST SPEECH 

The breakfast speech is seldom heard of in 
the United States. It does not differ much from 
the dinner and supper speeches, except that it 
generally lacks that warmth and effusiveness 



TOASTS AND SPEBGHMAIONG 179 

which characterizes the latter. Breakfast 
speeches are generally made at weddiags, and 
are usually of a light and frivolous character. 
Naturally, at a wedding breakfast, speeches 
and toasts are the order of the day. First 
there is the toast offered to the bride, to which 
the best man generally responds. Then the 
bridegroom is toasted, and in return is com- 
pelled to make some felicitous reply. The 
father and mother of the bride are next, re- 
spectively, toasted, and all must reply, either 
personally or by deputy. It is well for any 
and every one present at a wedding breakfast 
to be ready of tongue and quick of wit. 

AFTEB-DINKEB SPEECH 

The after-dinner speech is, par excellence, 
the great speech of all, and embodied in our 
accounts of social affairs are many notable ex- 
amples of this class of social oratory. 

SUPPEB SPEECH 

The supper speech should be made to a point 
after the style of an epigram, and should be 
of equal brevity. 

A ball-supper speech should be very light and 
lively. 

The surprise-party speech is another variety 
which must vary according to circumstances, 



laO TOASTS AND SPEBCHMAKING 

and these will generally suggest themselves as 
the key to the address. 

Birthday speeches cannot be made very 
original efforts nnless some peculiarly fortunate 
circumstance lends an unexpected opportunity. 

HOW TO PKEPABE A SPEECH 

Having covered some of the ground in our 
effort to point out the more important features 
of actual speechmaking and toasts at social 
gatherings, perhaps we would do well to go 
back over the groxmd again, in order to settle 
a question that may have arisen as to prece- 
dence in the toasts and speeches, and also to 
close this short dissertation by finding a few 
helpful hints, gathered from the experience of 
great public speakers, that may enable our 
readers to improve along the lines of duty that 
may fall to them when called upon to speak in 
a gathering of their friends, or at public or 
semi-public entertainments. 

We take first the topic of hints for speech- 
making and toasts, to be followed, in conclusion, 
by the question of social precedence referred to. 

Mastery of the subject is the first considera- 
tion in either toasts or speechmaking, for even 
in a toast there must be some subject-matter 
clearly defined in the mind of the would-be 
speaker. ^^ Clear thought is the foundation of 



TOASTS AND SMtECHBilAKlNG M 

persuasive speech/' and clear thought can only 
be obtained by exact knowledge. 

Having chosen, or been given his subject, the 
orator's first duty, therefore, is to crystallize 
it into a single proposition, and to group round 
that proposition all the facts and arguments he 
can possibly collect. This part of his work can- 
not be too elaborate. He must read every- 
thing he can find bearing on the subject. An 
excellent plan is to make notes of all relevant 
facts and arguments and write these down on 
slips of paper cut to a uniform size, adopting 
the method of having a separate card for every 
note— one idea, one card; these notes may be 
allowed to accumulate indefinitely, and can 
periodically be arranged in such an order that 
all the notes relating to the several passages 
in the projected speech will come together and 
form a skeleton of the finished address. 

Having collected his materials, the student 
will next set to work to analyze his notes and fit 
them all together in logical sequence, so that 
the original skeleton becomes a perfectly bal* 
anced framework ; on to this he will attach in 
their several proper places all his facts, and 
figures, and illustrations, discarding such notes 
as he may now regard as immaterial or unim- 
portant. When the speech is argumentative, 
and intended to be delivered to a critical audi- 



m TOASTS AND SPEEC31MAKING 

ence, he will be well advised not to eliminate too 
mneli. By the time he has mastered his sub- 
ject he may easily make the mistake of thinking 
that his hearers have done the same thing as 
thoroughly as himself, and fail in his object by 
assuming that they possess greater knowledge 
than is actually the case. An argument may be 
so condensed as to become almost unintelligible 
on a single hearing, and consequently the 
speaker, while avoiding prolixity and repeti- 
tion, should avoid the opposite danger of in- 
adequate elaboration, remembering always that 
the burden of proof rests upon himself, and 
that his task is only done when he has satisfied 
the last objector. 

A speech consists of four parts: exordium, 
discussion, conclusion, and peroration. The 
first prepares the way for the second; the 
second must be followed naturally and inevi- 
tably by the third ; the third is emphasized and 
rounded oflf by the last. It is to the second and 
third that the student must address himself 
particularly in the process of preparation here 
suggested, for they are the body of the speech; 
the extremities may be treated rather differ- 
ently. The exordium, for instance, may or may 
not contain an enunciation of the proposition 
which the speaker proposes to establish ; it may 
be personal in tone, intended to conciliate an 



TOASTS AND SPEECHiyiAiaNG IM 

audience which the speaker has reason to be- 
lieve is hostile to his views; it may be several 
other things ; but it should always bear directly 
upon the matter in hand, and be short and to 
the point; it is Ihe speaker's introduction of 
himself to his audience, and ought to be 
** happy/' In the same way, the peroration 
may contain a direct reference to the original 
proposition, may be apologetic or denuncia- 
tory, rhetorical or emotional. Only practice 
can enable a man to decide how he shall con- 
clude any speech ; there is an art in leaving oflF, 
and sometimes only a natural artistic instinct 
can tell a man when and how to stop. No 
direct advice can be given upon these heads; 
but in preparing a speech the exordium and 
peroration may be left to the last, and in de- 
livering the speech something of the exordium 
may be left to depend upon the conditions 
found to exist at the actual moment. 

Having mastered his subject and ** built '' 
his speech, the student should next reduce it to 
actual words, and his safest and wisest plan will 
be to write it out at length. No really great 
oration has ever yet been delivered ex tem- 
pore. 

In this connection. Lord Brougham, no mean 
authority, has said : * * This leads me to remark 
that, though speaking without writing before- 



184 TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 

hand is very well till the habit of easy speaking 
is acquired, yet after that he can never write 
too mnch; this is quite clear. It is laborious, 
no doubt, and it is more difficult, beyond com- 
parison, than speaking offhand ; but it is neoes* 
sary to perfect oratory, and, at any rate, it is 
necessary to acquire the habit of correct dic- 
tion. But I go further, and say even to the end 
of a man's life he must prepare word for word 
most of his finer passages. ' ' 

The written speech thus perfected serves a 
double purpose ; it is available for the speaker 
to read from if the subject is of first-class im- 
portance and he fears that from nervousness, 
or any other cause, he may lose the thread of his 
argument and mar his prospects by omitting 
any essential points ; it is also available for him 
to study; he can commit it word for word to 
memory dnd repeat it textually, so that his ad- 
dress — ^however it may be delivered — ^is, at any 
rate, a finished dissertation upon the subject at 
issue. On both these counts a word of warn- 
ing is necessary. An address read from copy 
can never have the same convincing effect as an 
oration delivered with an air of spontaneity; 
the delivery of an oration must be supple- 
mented with animation of manner and appro- 
priate gesture, and a man who reads his ad- 
dress is hampered by the necessity of holding 



TOASTS AND SFEECHHAKING US 

his manuscript and directing his attention to 
that instead of his audience ; and, on the other 
hand, the man who finds it necessary to learn 
his speech by heart and deliver it textually 
from memory runs some risk of seeming to be 
repeating a lesson and of delivering it too me- 
chanically, and, probably, with too great rapid- 
ity of utterance. 

There can be no doubt, however, that the ex- 
ercise of writing out in full the speech to be 
delivered does impress its phraseology with 
singular distinctness on the mind, and it should 
always be done until the habit of easy speaking 
has been acquired and the orator can rely upon 
the inspiration of the moment to clothe in ap- 
propriate words the arguments he has pre- 
viously considered and noted down. From the 
complete copy, moreover, a summary can be 
prepared, covering perhaps only a few sheets 
of note-paper, which the most practised orator 
can advantageously employ to refresh his mem- 
ory when he is actually called upon to rise and 
face his audience. 

Young speakers should never omit to write 
out and memorize their speeches, and they 
should further rehearse them privately before- 
hand to some friendly critic, who can advise 
ihem on the manner of delivery and give many 
valuable hints as to which points shall be em- 



f86 TOASTS AND SPEEGHMAKING 

phasized and which may be less forcibly driven 
home. 

This, then, is an adequate, if brief, indication 
of the course to be pursued in the preparation 
of a speech. Study the subject, frame the ar- 
gument, select the materials, write the speech, 
memorize it textually: this done, no man need 
fear to rise to his feet before the largest audi- 
ence. At least he will have paid them the com- 
pliment of taking the utmost possible pains to 
have something intelligent and lucid to offer 
to their consideration. 

To the intelligent reader who takes an in- 
terest in toasts and speeches, as aids to self- 
improvement and a means of social advance- 
ment, what is here written would seem all-suffi- 
cient to enable them to see just what it is that 
the toast writer and speechmaker cannot dis- 
pense with, if they would avoid failure. Much 
might still be said about Delivery, Some Com- 
mon Errors of Speech, and other details, but 
these details, after all, depend upon the indi- 
vidual almost exclusively, and do not yield up 
their difficulties to ways and means pure and 
simple. 

DELIVEBING A SPEECH 

The following is believed to be one of the best 
things on the subject of Delivery that has 



TOASTS AND SPEBCHMAKING W 

been written in recent years. The writer is an 
eminent authority both on the theory and prac- 
tice of oratory. After describing various ex- 
ercisesy he says : ^ ^ It would be advantageous to 
take any piece and read it backwards. I do not 
know of any practice more calculated to pro- 
duce clear articulation than this. In perform- 
ing it great care should be taken to let each 
word stand out, above and apart from its neigh- 
bors. It will also be necessary that each letter 
in the syllable, and each syllable in the word, 
fi(hould be distinctly heard. And here we may 
lay down a very good rule — ^let every letter and 
every syllable be distinctly heard, unless there 
be some good reason against it. Take care to 
enunciate each word as clearly as possible. 
Breathe between each two woYds/' 

Pronunciation is an important matter, the 
difference between correct and incorrect pro- 
nunciation marking the difference between an 
educated and ah uneducated man. In ordinary 
conversation the most common errors are due 
to carelessness, to a slipshod speech, which is 
tolerated for no apparent reason, and which 
many parents only check in their children when 
it degenerates into such glaring faults that 
*^ something must be done." Among children, 
and in ordinary affairs of life, pronunciation 
more or less faulty may perhaps be tolerated 



188 TOASTS AND SPEBCHKIAiaNG 

until ^^ something must be done^V with very 
great damage in the meantime. In public 
speaking, however, correct pronxmciation is 
absolutely essential, because failure in this par- 
ticular exposes the orator to public ridicule. 
And the cultivation of the gift of speech de- 
pends entirely on the individual. Having de- 
voted so much space to the art of speech-mak- 
ing, we pass now to our final topic. 

AFTEB-DINNEB SPEECH SZEMPLQIED 

The following furnishes a fair example of an 
after-dinner speech made in response to a toast 
** To All Qood Eating and Good Eaters. '* 

Mb. CHAmMAN: This is a toast to which 
every one who values his life can respond, not 
only with ease, but with an enjoyment of one's 
subject to which the memory of the feasts 
which have gone before furnishes us a ready and 
inspiring zest. To Byron is ascribed the re- 
mark that he ^ ^ had generally found good livers 
to be amiable gentlemen and good friends.'' 
We should be behind the ancients did we not 
ascribe to the stomach the credit of being the 
seat of our noblest impulses. Who is there 
that can rise, from a feast such as the one of 
which we have just partaken without feelings 
of gratitude and generosity, prompting him to 



TOASTS AND SPEBCHMAKING 189 

Boble acts and the most amiable sentiments 
towards his friends. It is not even necessary 
in some cases for us to have actually partaken 
of the good things which are going round at the 
time to feel ourselves lifted out of the rut of 
our own sordid existences and our enveloping 
chains of selfishness. The very atmosphere of 
the occasion prompts us to a more amicable 
understanding between ourselves and the world. 
Who is there present, I will ask, that ever heard 
of a man committing murder or doing any mean 
act immediately after having partaken of a 
generous meal. On the other hand, how tract- 
able and approachable a man becomes after 
having disposed of the good things provided 
for his appetite. Then is the time that his 
heart-strings are opened, and if any one has 
occasion to request a favor, then is the time 
that his request should be preferred, for, if 
ever, then is the time that it will be granted. 
The wise wife who responded to the question 
as to what was the best way to manage a hus- 
band by the terse reply ** Feed the brute! *' 
was a sagacious member of a usually sagacious 
sex. 

Eating, if not the fountain of genius, is at 
least the inspiration of all industry and enter- 
prise. Who is there that can resist the tempta« 
tion to go and work after having regaled himself 



190 TOASTS AND SPBBCHMAKING 

heartily and refreshed the springs of his being 
with the real elixir of life? It is to eating that 
we owe existence, and the more advanced we 
become in the art of eating the higher we 
ascend in the scale of civilization. 
To quote a popnlar author : 

** We may live without poetry, music, and art; 

We may live without conscience and live with- 
out heart; 

We may live without friends and live without 
books, 

But civilized man cannot live without cooks.'' 

'^ May our faults be written on the sands of 
the seashore, and every good action prove a 
wave to wash them out." 

There is no need to go into an elaborate* 
analysis of the arts and manufactures of a 
nation in order to understand the status of its 
people, mental and physical. The sociologist 
merely needs to visit its houses of refreshment, 
its temples of gastronomy, to feel the pulses of 
its epicures, and to take the standard of the 
culinary development of its domestic managers, 
in order to know the precise capabilities of its 
members. 

The great worker, the great thinker, the great 



TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING m 

writer — are they not all devotees of good dishes 
and good cups when occasion calls for themf 
* It has been asserted that eating is a habit. I 
believe so, and may it long continue one with 
the human race. Meat and wine are condemned 
by the vegetarians and the total abstainers. 
Let them have the privilege of their opinions. 
To me meat is a life-builder, and ^^ charm he 
never so wisely,'* I cannot believe with the re- 
formed tippler that a glass of good wine was 
not intended by nature as the natural adjunct 
to a festive occasion. In conclusion, I will ad- 
monish such of my friends as can do so to eat 
heartily, for to-morrow we know not if we may 
have the opportunity or no. If there is one 
thing that a man lives more for than another it 
is to eat, for the simple reason that, as a matter 
of ordinary physiological necessity, it is or- 
dained that under any circumstances it is com* 
pulsory on him to eat in order that he may live, 
nor have even the wisest of us been able yet to 
solve this apparently insoluble problem of the 
stomach in any different fashion. 

FOBMAL RESPONSE TO '' THE LADIES '^ 

Ladies and Gentlemen: The privilege has 
been accorded me of replying to the toast to 
^^ The Ladies," an honor which cannot be too 
highly esteemed. This toast embraces woman- 



192 TOASTS AND SPEBCHHAKING 

hood — ^the mother, the wife, the daughter, the 
sister, and last, but not least, the sweetheart. 
Here, then, is to ** The Ladies/' May their 
smiles always be as bright, their hearts as 
light, and their grip on us as tight as it is to« 
night. If there are any bachelors among us, 
may the ladies' smiles prove their undouig; if 
any spinsters, may they be led to see the folly 
of their ways and filled with the resolve to make 
some poor, unmated male creature happy. 
" The Ladies *' forever — our companions in 
the joy of living and our solace in the shadow 
of sorrow. The ladies, God bless them I 

** THE HOST *' 

Gbntlemen : Fill your glasses till the beaded 
bubbles at the brim run over. This is a toast 
to honor which is a pleasure and a duty. I give 
you the health of our host. God bless him I 

BEPLY TO TOAST TO HOST 

For the manner in which you have drank the 
toast of my health I thank you most heartily. 
To feel one 's self surrounded by such a host of 
sincere friends, and to feel that they are enjoy- 
ing themselves heartily, would make the most 
modest of mortals feel momentarily proud. 
Such occasions as this stir the blood in our 
veins; prompt us to broader and wider bonds 



TOASTS AND SPEBGHHIIAKING m 

of nnion with onr friends, our neighbors, and 
the world. 

The battle of life is a long and hard cam- 
paign, but once in a whUe comes the bivouac, 
when, resting for a moment on our guns, we 
eat, drink, and grow merry, forgetting the 
sound of the guns and the turmoil of the long 
struggle for elusive fortune. This little lull in 
the battle makes us all feel that, after all, life 
is worth fighting for, and that that same life 
without friends would be a wretched blank. 
Again I thank you for your generous good-fel- 
lowship, and pledge myself that no effort shall 
be wanting on my part to enable you to propose 
the same toast, under the same circumstances, 
again and again. 

GOLDEN WEDDING 

This is the harvest of love, the golden sheaf 
which has resulted from Cupid's sowing in the 
purple sunrise of two happy lives long, long 
ago. 

Our friends, whom we gather to honor, have 
now reached the golden age of maturity. Hand 
in hand they have ascended the hill of life ; hand 
in hand they are descending into the valley at 
whose border lies the deeper life beyond. This 
valley, to them, is lighted with the imfailing 
beams of faithfulness, affection, and devotion* 



m TOASTS AND SPEBC3IMAKING 

It is a rare privilege to witness this beautiful 
sight, to see the bride and bridegroom of to-day 
in spirit and heart the bride and bridegroom of 
this day half a century ago. 

Time, which has garlanded their brows with 
the fruits of wisdom, has sown fresh flowers in 
their hearts and mellowed their affection, 
which, like good wine, has but improved with 
age. 

It is our happy function to felicitate this de- 
voted couple upon the fiftieth anniversary of 
their marriage, to hope that many years may 
pass before the golden link is broken that binds, 
their lives together, that their bark at last, after 
sailing the golden sea, may find a golden sun- 
set — ^this is the united sentiment of all gathered 
here to-day. 

SILVEB WEDDIKO 

It is twenty-five years ago — does it seem pos- 
sible that time has stolen so swiftly away! — 
since our friends entered for the race of life 
together. 'Tis to congratulate them upon hav- 
ing won the plate that we are here. This is the 
plate [pointing to gifts]. For a quarter of a 
century has this happy team run neck and neck 
until the winning-post was reached. Now, 
ladies and gentlemen, let us drink to the win- 
ners, und let us hope that upon starting off for 



TOASTS AND SPBBCHiyiAKING 195 

the gold plate they may be just as easy winners. 
Let usy then, as we drink to their success, con- 
gratulate our dear friends, and, while doing so, 
not forget to point out to any unmarried ones 
present the charming idyll which has been lived 
in the lives of those whom we meet to honor, 
and suggest to them the happy idea of emu- 
lating such a charming example. Their healths 
— Qtod bless them I 

TOASTS TO WOMEN 

I'll toast America's daughters — ^let all fill their 
glassesr— 

Whose beauty and virtue the whole world sur- 
passes ; 

May blessings attend them, go wherever they 
will. 

And foul fall the man that e'er ofiFers them ill. 

The girl we love— when she is our toast, we 
don't want any but her. 

May we find our wives to-night where Cain 
found his— in the land of Nod. 

' Harmony in all the states of the world— espe- 
cially the married state. 

The best union bonds in the market— ^mar- 
riage certificates. 



m TOASTS AND SPEBCHMAKOIG 

The world was sad, the garden was a wild; 
And man, a hermit, sigh'd — ^till woman smil'd. 

Since Eve ate the apple much depends npon 
dinner. 

Yon can make fools of wits, we find each hour; 
But to make wits of fools is past your power. 

Heroes to herl whoever she be, 

That not impossible she 

That shall command thy heart and thee* 

Women are like tricks by sleight of hand, 
Which, to admire, we should not understand. 

I fill this cup to one made up 
Of loveliness alone. 

Come, fill the glass and drain the bowl; 
May Love and Bacchus still agree; 
And every American warm his soul 
With Cupid, Wine, and Liberty 1 

Fill, boys, and drink about; 

Wine will banish sorrow! 
Come, drain the goblet out, 

For we *11 have more to-morrow. 

** Arms and the man! '* 
Here *s to woman, God bless her ! 
May our arms be ever her def ence^ 
And hers — our recompense. 



TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 197 

Here's to ourselves. There's none better, 
and few like us. 

Here's to those that we love — and to those 
that love them that love us. 

God sends meat and the Devil sends cooks. 

Here 's to you as good as you are, 

And to me as bad as I am; 

For as good as you are, and as bad as I am, 

I'm as good as you are, bad as I am. 

Here's to the prettiest, here's to the wittiest. 
Here's to the truest of all that is true; 
Here 's to the neatest one, here 's to the sweetest 

one. 
Here's to them all in one — there's to you I 

Here's that we may kiss whom we please 
and please whom we kiss. 

Here's to our vices, lying, swearing, stealing, 

and drinking: 
That you may lie in the cause of friendship— 
That you may swear by your honor — 
That you may steal all the kisses of the one 

you love — 
And that when you drink, you may drink to 

**her." 



m TOASTS AND SPEBCHMAKING 

A good wife and health are a man's best 
ic^alth. 

What's a table richly spread without a 
woman at its headt 

The Ladies 

Always favorable to a press, properly con- 
ducted. 

Drink to fair woman, who, I think, 

Is most entitled to it ; 
For if anything ever can drive me to drinki 

She certainly could do it. 

To Woman 
She needs no eulogy ; she speaks for herself. 

You may run the whole gamut of color and 

shade, 
A pretty girl — however you dress her — 
Is the prettiest thing that ever was made — 
And the last one is always the prettiest — ^bless 

her I 

Old Navy Toast 

Here's to our sweethearts and wives; 
May they never meet. 

He who loves not women, wine, and song, 
,Will be a fool his whole existence long. 



TOASTS AND SPBBCHMAKING t99 

Here's to the light that lies in a woman's eyes, 
And lies, and lies, and lies. 

Here's to our sweethearts and wives, and so be 

their changing of parts ; 
That our sweethearts may soon be our wives, 

and our wives always be our sweethearts. 

To the Newly Wedded 

May we all live to be present at their golden 
wedding. 

To the Bride 

May her voyage through life be as lightsome 

and free 
As the sunbeams that dance on the waves of 

the sea. 

TOAST TO liOVEBS 

The Widow Malone — An old favorite by, 
Charles Lever 

Did ye hear of the Widow Malone, 

Ohone t 

Who lived in the town of Athlone, 

Alone! 

Oh, she melted the hearts 

Of the swains in them parts, 

So lovely the Widow Malone, 

Ohone ! 

So lovely the Widow Malone. 



200 TOASTS AND SPEBCHMAKING 



^MMHlriM 



Of lovers she had a full score, 

Or more ; 

And fortunes they all had galore, 

In store; 

From the minister down 

To the clerk of the ** Crown,'' 

All were courting the Widow Malone, 

Ohone ! 

All were courting the Widow Malone. 

But so modest was Mrs. Malone, 

'Twas known, 
No one ever could see her alone, 

Ohone I 
Let them ogle and sigh. 
They could ne'er catch her eye, 
So bashful the Widow Malone, 

Ohone I 
So bashful the Widow Malone. 

Till one. Mister 'Brien from Clare, 

How quare! 

It's little for blushin' they care, 

Down there ; 

Put his arm round her waist. 

Gave ten kisses at laste, 

** Oh," says he, ** you're my Molly Ma- 
lone I" 



TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 201 

And the widow they all thought so shy^ 

My eye I 
Ne'er thought of a simper or sigh, 

For why! 
But * ' Lucius, * ' says she, 
** Since youVe made now so free. 
You may marry your Mary Malone,*' 

Ohone I 
" You may marry your Mary Malone.*' 

There's a moral contained in my song, 

Not wrong ; 
And one comfort it's not very long, 

But strong; 
If for widows you die. 
Learn to kiss, not to sigh. 
For they're all like sweet Mistress Malone, 

Ohone ! 
- Oh I they're all like sweet Mistress Malone. 

With lashings of drink on the table, 
I like to lie down in the sun, 
And drame whin my faytures is scorchin', 
That when I'm too ould for more fun, 
"Why, I'll marry a wife with a fortune. 
And, in winter, with bacon and eggs. 
And a place at the turf -fire baskin', 
Sip my punch as I roasted my legs^ 
Oh, the devil a more I'd be askin\ 



m TOASTS AND SPKECHMAKING 

For I haven't a janins for work, 
It was never the gift of the Bradies; 
But I'd make a most ilegant Turk, 
For I'm fond of tobacco and ladies." 

Friendship 

Here's to the tears of friendship! May they 
crystallize as they fall and be worn as gems in 
the memory of those we love. 

In ascending the hill of prosperity may we 
never meet a friend. 

Reasons for Drinking — Dr. Aldrich 
Good wine; a friend; or being dry; 
Or, lest we should be by-and bye ; 
Or any other reason why. 

To a Friend 
May his shadow never grow less. 

Man's Natural History, According to the Club- 
woman 
The head of all creation. He crops up like 
sparrowgrass, hops round like a grasshopper, 
and is generally about ten times greener than 
the greenest grass. 

Here's to the American Aigle, 
That bird so uncommonly hale, 
Whom nobody yet could invaigle 
When they tried to put salt on his tail. 



TOASTS AND SPHECHMAKING IttS 

To a Departed Friend 

But O for the touch of a vanished hand 
And the sound of a voice that is still. 

Here's a sigh for those that love me^ 
And a smile for those that hate ; 
And, whatever sky's above me, 
Here's a heart for any fate. 

— Bybok. 

To an Easy Time — By Charles Lever 
It's little for glory I care; 
Sure ambition is only a fable; 
I'd as soon be myself as lord mayor, 
And quite as likely be able. 

Our Absent Friends 

Although out of sight, we recognize them 
with our glasses. 

Here's to champagne, the drink divine, 
That makes us forget our troubles ; 
It's made of a dollar's worth of wbie 
And three dollars' worth of bubbles. 

Here's to good old whiskey, 

So amber and so clear; 

It's not so sweet as a woman's lips, 

But a d d sight more sincere. 



2M TOASTS AND SPSBCHMAKING 

I ■ I a-^^ ^ 

The Lily of France may fade, 
The Thistle and Shamrock wither. 
The Oak of Old England decay, 
But the Stars will shine on forever. 

The bubble winked at me and said, 

*' You'll miss me, brother, when you're dead.*' 

Let us have wine and women, mirth and laugh- 
ter; 

Sermons and soda-water can follow the evening 
after. 

Our Country 

To her we drink, for her we pray. 
Our voices silent never; 
For her we'll fight, come what come may, 
The Stars and Stripes forever I 

Then fill the bowl — ^away with gloom; 
Our joys shall always last; 
For hope will brighten days to come, 
And memory gild the past. 

Here's to a long life and a merry one, 
A quick death and an easy one, 
A pretty girl and a true one, 
A cold bottle and another one. 



TOASTS AND SPBBCHBIAKING 205 

Here^s to wine enough to sharpen wit; wit 
enough to lend a sparkle to the wine ; and wis- 
dom enough to put the lid on in time. 

May the wings of friendship never moult a 
feather. 

As Shakespeare says : 

* * Come, love and health to all ; 

Then I'll sit down. Give me some wine, fill full, 

I drink to the general joy o' the whole table." 

See I the standard of freedom floats proudly on 

high, 
*Tis the bright, waving banner of light ; 
Fair symbol of liberty, bom of the sky, 
True emblem of union and might I 

Here's a health .to Columbia, the pride of the 

earth. 
The Stars and the Stripes — drink the land of 

our birth I 
Toast the army and navy who fought for our 

cause, 
[Who conquered and won us our freedom and 

laws. 

Dear country, our thoughts are more constant 

to thee 
Than the steel to the star, or the stream to the 

sea. 



206 TOASTS AND SFEBCHiyiAKING 

The American flag — ^may it ever wave 
O'er the home of the free — ^the land of the 
brave. 

Health to the gallant officers of our army and 
navy. After all battles and storms are over 
may they drop quietly and happily into the 
harbor of unending bliss. 

May the service united ne'er sever, 

But hold to their colors so true ; 

The Army and Navy forever I 

Three cheers for the Bed, White, and Blue t 

Freedom without faction. 

America 

Birthplace of liberty and haven for all the 
oppressed. 

The American Flag 

A star for every State and a State for every 
star. 

Golden Wedding 

Matrimony's pleasant autumn. May it al- 
ways bear golden fruit. 

Silver Wedding 

A quarter of a century's investment. The 
best five-twenty bond in the world. 



MENU TERMS IN FOREIGN LANGUAGES 207 



H 



8.1 , 



I 



I " I 



III 



M^ i is 

HI'S 



I 



I I 



I fe 



1^ 



Ills 

^ S fl J* ;:? 



II 



JB 



s 



2 

JS 

I 



I 



11 



& 



(S 1 1 



s J ^ J 
2 I a is 



s 

^1 



9 
02 



s 
B 



e 



ft J 









I 






a s S tb 
5 



m MEATS, ETC, IN YAMOUS LAWCUAOESI 



S s^ I a fc II as 



It 



hmB0 I ilth 1^^ 




83! 



nil 



lti|lll^ll|lIll|i|l||||H^^ls 



MEATS, ETC, IN VAIUOUS LANGUAGES 209 



1 



i 
I 



o 

I 



a 




M 




I 

O 

E2 



I 



2 



I 



I jr, 



I 




8 



09 



O 
09 




1 






I 



ftili 









■s 




I 



§ 




i 



Q 






S«*« 




2111 HEATS, ETC IN VARIOUS LANCUACES 



TEBMS USED IN COOKINa 

'Abattis — Giblets. 

Agneau — ^Lamb. 

A la, au, aux — ^With; as Huitres aux cham« 
pignonsy — Oysters with mushrooms ; or, Smelts 
a la Tartare, — ^with tartare sauce. 

A VAurore — ^A white sauce^ colored pink with 
spawn of lobster. 

A la bonne Femme — Of the good housewife. 

A VEstragon — ^With tarragon. 

A la Neige — ^In the style of snow. 

A la Poulette — Meat or fish warmed in white 
sauce with yolks of eggs. < 

A la -Beiwe— of the queen. 

Allemande — ^A thick white sauce made with 
cream and the yolks of eggs, and seasoned with 
nutmeg and lemon juice. 

Almond — ^A nut grown in southern Europe. 
It consists of a stone fruit, the fleshy pericarp 
of which dries in ripening, and forms a tough 
covering to the stone. Bitter almonds are ob^ 
tained from Morocco. They contain prussic 
acid, and are poisonous. The sweet almonds 
include the Jordan and Valencia varieties. The 
Jordan almonds, imported from Malaga, are 
long and narrow, and are considered the best. 

211 



2S2 TERMS USED IN COOKING 

Angelica — A plant, the stems of T^ch are 
preserved in syrup, and used for decorating 
pastry, etc. 

AnguiUes — Eels. 

Apricot — ^A stone fruit cultivated in temper- 
ate and tropical climates. The skin has a 
highly perfumed flavor. 

Asperges — ^Asparagus. 

Aspic Jellif — ^A transparent meat jelly made 
with stock, and used for garnishing. 

Assiette — ^Plate. 

Atelet — ^A small silver skewer. 

Au Beurre noir — With black butter. 

Au Beurre roux — ^With browned butter. 

Au Bleu — ^A French term applied to fish 
boiled in white wine with flavorers. 

Au, Gratin — Dishes covered with crumbs and 
grated cheese and browned over. 

Au Oras — ^Dressed with meat gravy. 

Au naturel — 'Plain, simple (potatoes cooked 
in their jackets are ** au naturel *'). 

Au Jus — ^In the natural juice, or gravy. 

Au vert Pie — ^With sweet herbs. 

Aux Cressons — ^With watercresses. 

Aux Rognons — ^With kidneys. 

Avena — Oats. 

Bdba — ^A very light plum cake, or sweet 
French yeast cake. 

Bain-marie-^An open vessel which has a 



TERMS USED IN COOKING 213 

loose bottom for the reception of hot water. It 
is used to keep sauces nearly at the boiling- 
point without reduction or burning. 

Bannock — ^Primitive cake without yeast; 
cooked on a griddle ; in Scotland made of peas, 
barley, and oatmeal ; in America of com meal. 

Barde — ^A thin slice of bacon fat, placed over 
any substance si)ecially requiring the assistance 
of fat without larding. 

Barbecue — To roast any animal whole, 
usually in the open air. 

Barm — The scum from fermented malt 
Uquors, used as yeast. 

Baron of Beef — The two sirloins not cut 
down the back. Formerly a favorite dish in 
England. 

Baron of Lamb — The entire loin, not divided 
at the backbone, with the upper part of both 
legs. 

Batterie de Cuisine — Complete set of cooking 
apparatus. 

Bavaroise a Veau — Tea sweetened with syrup 
of capillaire, and flavored with a little orange- 
flower water. 

Bavaroise au Lait — ^Made in the same way as 
the above, but with equal quantities of milk and 
tea. 

BSchamel — A rich white French sauce. 

Beignet or Fritter (see Fritter). 



2J4 TERMS USED IN COOKING 

Bearnaise — ^A rich egg sance flavored witii 
tarragon, named from Beam, birthplace of 
Henry IV. of France. 

Becasses — ^Woodcock. 

Bisque — ^A soup made of shellfish. 

Blanch — ^To parboil, to scald vegetables, nuts, 
etc., in order to remove the skin. 

Blanquette — ^Any white meat warmed in a 
white sauce thickened with eggs. 

Blonde de Veau — ^Double veal broth used to 
enrich soups and sauces. 

Bouchees — ^Very small patties. 

Boduf—Reet. 

Bouillabaisse — Several kinds of fish boiled 
quickly and highly seasoned with onion, orange 
peel, saffron, oil, etc. 

Bouquet — ^A spray of each of the herbs used 
in seasoning, rolled up in a spray of parsley, 
and tied securely. 

BouiUe — ^Broth made from beef. 

BouUli — Beef stewed generally in one large 
piece, and served with a sauce. 

Bourguignote — ^A ragout of truffles. 

Bouillon — ^A clear beef soup. 

Braise — ^Meat cooked in a closely covered 
stewpan to prevent evaporation, so that the 
meat retains not only its own juices, but those 
of any other articles, such as bacon, herbs, 
TOots, and spices put with it. 



TERMS USED IN COOKING 2S5 



Braisidre — ^A saucepan with ledges to the lid 
so that it will contain firing. 

Bridle — To truss fowls with a needle and 
thread. 

Brawn — ^Head cheese. 

Bretonne — ^A puree of red onions. 

Brioche — ^A sponge cake similar to Bath buns. 

Brioche Paste — Cakes made yeast. 

BrochS — ^A spit. 

Brochette — ^A skewer. 

Brunoise — A brown soup or sauce. 

Buisson — ^A cluster or bush of small pastry 
piled on a dish. 

Bubble and Squeak — ^A dish of vegetables, 
hashy and meat. 

Buttock — ^A round of beef. 

Cafe au Lait — ^CoflFee with milk. 

Cafe noir — ^Black coffee. 

Caiile — Quail. 

CaUipash — The glutinous portion of the 
turtle found in the upper shell. 

CaUipee — The glutinous meat of the turtle *8 
under shell. 

Canard — ^Duck. 

Cannelons—PuS paste baked round a form 
of cardboard shaped like a cane. 

Cannelons of Meat — ^Highly seasoned and 
minced meat baked in the form of a roll. 

Capers — ^The unopened buds of a shrub 



2i6 TERMS USED IN COOKING 

■ II I I J^M I I -*■ I 

grown in sonihem Enrope. Pickled and used 
in sauces. 

Capon — ^A chicken castrated for the purpose 
of improving the quality of the flesh. 

CapUotade — ^A hash of poultry. 

Caramel — ^A syrup of burnt sugar named 
after Count Caramel, discoverer of the seventh 
degree of cooking sugar used for flavoring cus- 
tards, etc., and coloring soups. 

Cardoon — ^A vegetable resembling the arti- 
choke. 

Casserole — ^A covered stone dish in which is 
cooked and served (sometimes applied to a 
form of pastry) rice or macaroni filled with a 
fricassee of meat or puree of game. 
, Civet — ^A dark, thickish stew of hare or ven- 
ison. 

Champignons — Mushrooms. 

Charlotte — ^A preparation of cream or fruit 
formed in a mould, lined with cake or fruit. 

ChartreiLse — Game, fillets, etc., moulded in 
jelly and surrounded by vegetables. Invented 
by the monks at the monastery of Chartreuse. 

Chervil — The leaf of a European plant used 
for salad. 

Chillis — ^Red peppers. 

Chine — ^A piece of the backbone of an animal 
cut with the adjoining parts cut for cooking. 
Usually applied to pork. 



T£RMS VS6S) IN COOKlNd M 



Chives— Aa herb allied to the onion family. 

Chou-fleur — Cauliflower. 

Chutney~A hot acid aance made from 
apples, tomatoes, raisins, cayenne, ginger, gar- 
lic, shallots, salt, sugar, lemons, and vinegar. 

Citron^-The rind of a fruit of the lemon 
species, preserved in sugar. 

Gock-Orleekie — ^A soup used in Wal^fl made 
from fowls and leeks. 

Collar— To cure meat in spiced brine. 

Collops — ^Meat cut in small pieces. 

CompUgne — Sweet French yeast-cake with 
fruit. 

Confitures — Sweetmeats of sugars, fraits, 
syrups, and essences. 

Consomme — Clear soup. 

CompSte—Frmt stewed in syrup. 

Cream Sugar and Butter— 1» to rub sugar 
into the butter until they are well incorporated; 
then beat light and smooth. 

Coulis — ^A rich smooth gravy used for color- 
ing, flavoring, and thickening certain soups. 

Coriander— A plant cultivated for its tender 
leaves. Used in soups and salads and in mak- 
ing curry powder. 

Cornichons — ^Pickles. 

Cotelettes — Cutlets. 

Creme Brulee— Brown sugar or caramel with 
cream. 



218 THRBliS USED IN OOOKING 

Creole, a la — ^With tomatoes. 

Crivettes — Shrimp. 

Crimp — ^To cause to contract, or render more 
crisp. 

Croquettes — ^Minced meat, fish, or fowl mixed 
with sauce, rolled in shape, and covered with 
egg and bread crumbs and fried crisp. 

Croustade — ^A kind of patty of bread crust or 
prepared rice. 

Crouton — ^A sippet of fried or toasted bread. 

Crumpet — ^Raised muffins baked on a griddle. 

Cuisine masquee — ^Highly seasoned or un- 
usually mixed dishes. 

Cuisson — Method of cooking meats in the 
liquor in which they have been boiled. 

Cuen de bcsuf — Ox tails. 

Currants — Dried currants are the small black 
grapes grown at Corinth. 

Curries — Stews of meat or fish, seasoned with 
curry powder. 

Curry Powder — ^A compound of coriander 
seed, tumeric, ginger, pepper, cummin seed, car- 
damoms, caraway seed, and cayenne. 

De, d'— Of, as filet de bceuf, fillet of beef. 

Dariole — ^A sweet pate baked in a mould. 

Dauhe — ^Meat or fowl stewed in sauce. 

Dauhiere — ^An oval stewpan. 

Dejeuner — ^Breakfast. 

Desosser — ^To bone. 



TERMS USED IN COOKING 219 



Demi-tasse — ^A small cap (applied to after- 
dinner coffee). 

Dorwre— Yolks of eggs, well-beaten, for cov- 
ering meat and other dishes. 

Devilled — Seasoned hotly. 

Dinde — Turkey. 

Eclaire — ^Pastry or cake filled with cream. 

En Coquille — Served on shells. 

En PapUlote — Served on papers. 

Endive — ^A plant of composite family used 
as salad. 

Entrees — Small made dishes served between 
courses at elaborate dinners. 

Entremet — Second course side-dishes, in- 
eluding vegetables, eggs, sweets. 

Epigrams — Small fillets of poultry, gam^ 
and lamb prepared as an entree. 

Escalopes — CoUops. 

Espagnole—A rich brown Spanish sauce. 

J^pinarei^— Spinach. 

Eperlans — Smelts. 

Faisan — ^Pheasant. 

Fagot--A small bunch of parsley and thyme 
tied up with a bay leaf. 

Farce — ^Force-meat. 

Fausse Tortue — Mock turtle. 

FeuUletage — ^Puff paste. 

Finandere—An ezpensivei highly flavored^ 
mixed rago&t. 



220 TERBUS USED IN COOKING 

Flamber — To singe fowl or game after pick- 
ing. 

Flan — ^A French cnstard. 

Planes — ^The side-dishes of large dinners. 

Fanchonettes and Florentines — Small pas- 
tries covered with a meringue. 

Fillets — ^Longy thin pieces of meat or fish 
generally rolled and tied. 

Finnan Haddock — ^Haddock smoked and 
dried. Named from Findon, in Scotland, where 
they are obtained in perfection. 

Flaus, Darioles, and Mirltons — French 
cheese cakes. 

Foie — ^Liver. 

Foncer — To put in the bottom of a saucepan 
thin pieces of veal or bacon. 

Fondue — ^A light and pleasant preparation of 
cheese. 

Fowl a la Marengo — ^A fowl browned in oil 
and stewed in rich stock, seasoned with wine. 

Fraise — Strawberry. 

Fricandeaux — Boned pieces of veal chiefly, 
cut from the thick part of the fillet, and of not 
more than two or three pounds each, larded and 
browned and stewed in stock. 

Fromage — Cheese. 

Fricassee — Chicken or veal stewed with white 
3auce, and mushrooms, etc., used as accesso- 
ries* 



I 



TERMS USED IN OCX>KING 221 

Fritter — ^Anything encased in a covering of 
batter and fried. 

Gateau — Cake. 

Gaufres — ^Waffles. 

Gelee — ^Jelly. 

Genevese Sauce — ^A white sance made of 
white stock, highly seasoned, and served with 
boiled fish. 

Glaze — Stock boiled down to the thickness of 
jelly, and used to improve the appearance of 
braised dishes. 

Glace — Covered with icing. 

Godiveatix — ^Various varieties of force-meat. 

Gras — ^With, or of, meat; the reverse of 
maigre. 

Gnocchi — ^A light, savory dough, boiled; 
served with Parmesan. 

Goulasch — ^A Hungarian beef stew, highly 
seasoned. 

Gratins — Served in a rich sauce with browned 
crumbs. 

Grilled — ^Broiled over open coals. 

Gratiner — To cook like a grill. 

Galantine— lA^QBi boned, stuffed, made into a 
roll, boiled, and usually served cold in slices. 

GroseUles — Currants. 

Gumbo — ^A dish into which okra is intro- 
duced and served in it, or prepared sepa- 
rately. 



m TERKIS USED IN COCXING 

Qruyire — ^A brand of fancy cheese. 

Haggis — ^Heart. 

Haricot — Small bean, or a stew in which 
meats and vegetables are ent small. 

Hodge-Podge — ^A Scotch meat stew. 

Hora-d'tBUvres — ^Relishes, sardines, ancho- 
vies. 

Homard — ^Lobster. 

Huitrea — Oysters. 

Jardinire — ^Prepared and served with vege- 
tables. 

Julienne — ^A clear soup with shredded vege- 
tables. 

Jamhon — Ham. 

Koumiss — ^Milk fermented with yeast. 

Kabob — ^An India meat dish prepared with, 
curry. 

KirscJhKuchen — German cherry cake. 

Kippered — Dried or smoked. 

Kohl Cannon — ^Minced cabbage and potatoes 
seasoned with butter, pepper, and salt. 

Kromeskies — ^Meat or fish minced and dipped 
in batter and fried crisp. 

Lardon — ^A piece of bacon in salt pork used 
for larding purposes. 

Lit — Thin slices or layers. 

Laitue — ^Lettuce. 

LentUs^-A variety of the bean family used 
in soups. 



TERBOS USED IN COOKING 223 

Liason — ^The mixtnre of eggs and cream used 
to thicken soup^ etc. 

Macedoine—A miztore of vegetables or f raits 
moulded in jelly. 

Madeline — ^A kind of pltun cake. 

Maigre — ^Dishes for fast days, made without 
meat. 

Marinade — ^The liquor in which fish or meat 
is steeped before cooking. 

Mask — ^To cover meat with a rich sauce. 

Mango — A kidney - shaped semi - tropical 
fruit used green for pickling and ripe for 
dessert. 

Manna Kroup — ^Flour made from rice and 
wheat mixed frequently with the yolk of egg 
and saffron. 

Matelote— A rich fish stew flavored with 
wine. 

Mayonnaise — Cold sauce or salad dressing 
composed of yolk of eggs, oil, vinegar, and sea- 
soning. 

Marrons — ^Chestnuts. 

Menu— A bill of fare. 

Majarines — Ornamental entr^s of force- 
meat and fillets of poultry, game, or fish. 

Meringue — The white of eggs beaten together 
with powdered sugar to a froth. 

Mignonnette Pepper — Coarsely ground pep- 
peroonuu 



724 TERMS USED IN CXXXSNG 

Mirepoix — ^A rich brown gravy used in brais- 
ing meats. 

Miroton — ^Meat cnt in somewhat larger pieces 
than for collops. 

Morel — ^A species of mushroom. 

MouUler — To add broth, water, or other 
liquid while the cooking is proceeding. 

Morue — Codfish. 

Mouton — ^Mutton. 

Mousse — ^Ice cream made with whipi)ed 
cream. 

Nectarine — ^Variety of small peach having a 
smooth skin. 

Nougat — Candy made from sugar and 
almonds. 

NouiUes — Strips of paste made from eggs 
and flour, dried and used for soup — or sepa- 
rately. 

Noyau — ^A cordial. 

CEufs— 'Eggs. 

Oignons — Onions. 

OJcra — Seed pods from a plant grown in the 
South, and used for soup and pickles. 

Panai5— Parsnips. 

Panada — Soaked bread, prepared to be used 
with force-meat. 

Paner — ^To cover fried or baked foods with 
bread crumbs. 

Panure — Any entree that is bread-crumbed. 



TERMS USED IN COOKING 225 

PapiUote — The pieces of paper greased with 
oil and butter, and fastened ronnd a cutlet by 
twisting the edges. 

Pdte-^A small pastry, usually a pie. 

Pate de fois gras — ^A composition of goose 
liver, truflBes, etc. 

Paupiettes — Slices of meat rolled. 

PUce de Resistance — The principal joint of 
the dinner (the roast). 

PUau — ^A dish of meat and rice (East Indian 
or Turkish). 

Pimento — Jamaica pepper. 

Perdreux — ^Partridge. 

Persillade — ^With parsley. 

Petit pains — ^Little bread. 

Petit pois — ^Little peas. 

Pigeonnaux — Squab. 

Piquer — To lard with strips of bacon fat. 

Poelee — Stock for boiling turkeys, fowls, 
vegetables, instead of water, so as to render it 
less insipid. 

Potage — Soup. 

Printaniers — ^Early spring vegetables. 

Puree — ^A thick soup rubbed through a 
sieve. 

ProfiteroUes — ^Light pastry with cream in- 
side. 

Pimolas — ^Olives stuffed with Pimentos. 
. Piquante — ^A highly seasoned sauce. 



m TERMS USED IN 



MMta 



Pistachio — ^A greenish nut resembling the 
almond, ased for flavoring and coloring. 

Polenta — ^A mush made from Indian meal or 
of grou) id chestnuts. 

Potafie — ^A family soup. 

Potp'ourri — ^A highly seasoned stew of meat, 
spices, and vegetables, etc. 

Quemlle — ^A delicate force-meat used in 
entreen. 

RagaUt — Stewed meat in rich gravy. 

Relives — The remove dishes. 

Remoulade — Salad dressing. 

Ramekins — ^Preparation of cheese-puff paste 
or toast. 

Ratafias — ^Almond cakes; a liquor flavored 
with nuts. 

Ravigote — Highly flavored green herb sauce. 

Rifadmento — ^Meat dressed a second time. 
. RSchauffe — ^Anything warmed over. 

Ris de veau — Sweetbreads. 

Rissoles — Small shapes of puff paste filled 
with a mixture, and fried or baked. Or balls 
of minced meat, egged or crumbed, and fried 
till crisp. 

Risotto — ^An Italian dish of rice and cheese. 

Roquefort — ^A brand of fancy cheese. 

Roti — A roast. 

Roulade^-Meeit stuffed, skewered into a rol], 
and cooked. 



TERMS USED IN COOKING 227 



Rotico— Butter and flotir stirred together to a 
cream and cooked. A white ronx is made with 
uncooked flonr ; a brown ronx with flour that is 
browned. 

Sahni — Game cnt np and warmed over in 
gravy with olives, mushrooms, etc 

Saute— To fry lightly in a little hot fat or 
butter. 

Salpicon — ^A mince of poultry, ham, and other 
meats used for entries, or it may be a mixture 
of fruits in a flavored sjrrup. 

Savoy Cakes — ^Lady fingers. 

Sauce Piquante — ^An acid sauce. 

Scones — Scotch cakes of meal or flour. 

Shallotr-A variety of onion. 

Soubise Sauce — ^A pur6e of white onion 
named after Prince Soubise. 

SoufjiS — ^A very light pudding or omelet — 
the name means puffed-up. 

Soy — ^A Japanese sauce prepared from the 
seeds of Dolichos Soja, used to color soups and 
sauces. 

Serviette, a la — Served in a napkin. 

Sippets — Small pieces of bread soaked in 
stock, fried in fat or toasted and served with 
meats as garnishing or border. 

Stock — ^The essence extracted from meat. 

Sultanas — ^White or yellow seedless grapes, 
grown in Corinth. 



228 TERMS USED IN 



Suprime — ^White cream gravy made of 
chicken. 

Tamis or Tammy— A strainer of fine woolen 
canvas, used for soups and. sauces. 

Tarragon — ^An herb from which vinegar is 
made — leaves used also for seasoning. 

Tendrons de Veau — ^The gristle from the 
breast of veal stewed in stock, and served as an 
entree. 

Tartare — ^A sauce, served with fish. 

Timhala^A sort of pie made in a mould and 
turned out while hot. 

Tarte — ^A tart baked in a shallow tin. 

Trifle — ^Dish made from sponge cake, maca- 
roons, jam, etc., brandy, wine, etc. 

Troiisser — To truss a bird. 

Truffles — ^A species of fungus growing below 
the soil — ^f ound in France — ^used to give a deli- 
cate flavor, also for garnishing. 

Truite — Trout. 

Turbans — ^Ornamental drum-shaped cases for 
entrees. 

Tutti-Frutti — ^A mixture of fruit usually 
served in an ice. 

Vanilla — The bean of a Mexican plant, from 
which the vanilla extract is made. Sometimes 
the bean is pared in to use for flavoring. 

Veau — ^Veal. 

Velonte—A smooth white sauce. 



TERMS USED IN OCXXONG 229 

Vin — ^Wine. 

Vinaigrette Satire — ^With vinegar sauce. 

VoUaurVent — ^A crust of very light puff paste' 
to be filled with oysters^ chicken, etc., prepared 
in a cream sauce. 

Vanner — To make a sauce smooth by lifting 
it high in large spoonfuls and letting it fall 
quickly. 

Zwieback — Bread, toasted twice. 

Zest of Lemon — The grated or shaved rind of 
lemon. 



INDEX 



Aeeornxwniixieiits, il. d9S 
Acids, effect of vinegar, 

lemon, etc., il. 101 
Adelaide sandwich, iv. 187 
After-dinner speech, t. 179 

speech exemplified, y. 188 
Afternoon-tea costume, 1. 59 

evolution of, ete., i. 53 

gruests, i, 59 

hostess' duties, 1. 69 

making' the tea, i. 66 

**pink teas," etc., 1. 61 
. pouring and serving, i. 56 

series of, i. 59 

table, i. 54 

when elaborate, 1. 57 

when elaborate menu, i. 68, 
60 

when very elaborate, i. 60 
Alaska baked ice cream, iv. 

322 
Albumen, il. 9, 10 
Ale punch, v. 113 
Ale sangaree, v. 86 
Almond and orange ice, iv. 
329 
cake, iv. 180 
chocolate drofm, iv. 339 
creams, iv. 339 
jumbles, iv. 203 
milk soup, iii. 34 
sauce for pudding, iv, 313 
Amateur Theatricals (see 

"Dramatics"). 
Amber, consomme, iii. 14 
"America" (toast), v. 207 
American soup, iii. 83 
Ammonia, not to be used 
carelessly for silver, il. 
346 
Amontillado, v. 154 
Analysis of wines, t. 182 



Anchovies, iii. 160 

and olives, iv. 251 

eggs stufPed with, ill. 888 

stuffed, iv. 250 

substitute for cariare, iv, 
252 
Anchovy paste, iv. 252 

sandwich, iv. 161 

sauce, iii. 194 
Angel food, iv. 179 
Animal diet, ii. 108 
Anise-seed cakes, iv. 202 
Apples, baked, iv. 121 

in pastry, iv. 124 

steamed, ii. 195; ii. 227 

stewed, iv. 123 

stewed in whiskey, iv. 122 
Apple butter, iv. 274 

butter, American, iv. 123 

dumpling, baked, iv. 275 

gems, iv. 146 

mange, iv. 301 

meringue, iv. 291 

pie, green, iv. 275 

pie, Dutch, iv. 276 

pie, cream, iv. 276 

pudding, English, iv. 282 

punch, V. 113 

sauce, iv. 124 

snow (No. 1), iv. 298; iv, 
302 

soup, iii. 104 

tapioca pudding, iv. 280 

toddy, V. 72 

water, ii. 284; iv. 259 
Apricot brandy, v. 47 

custard, iv. 300 

fritters, iv. 163 

ice cream, iv. 316 
Arabian coffee, v. 30 
" Arf and arf ," v. 118 
Arrack punch, v. 93, 105 



231 



232 



INDEX 



Arrowroot jelly, Iv. 260 

Bouffl^, iy. 294 
Artichokes & I'ltalieime, !▼. 
68 

fried, iv. 66 

Jerusalem, fricasseed, iv. 
67 

Jerusalem, stewed, iv. 66 

purge of Jerusalem, iv. 68 

stewed in gravy, iv. 66 

stuffed, iv. 67 
Asparagus, ii. 215 

& la crdme, iv. 65 

boiled, iv. 64 

fricasseed, iv. 65 

omelet, iii. 342 

scalloped, iv. 63 

soup, cream of, iii. 50 

tips, consommg with, iii. 16 
Aspic game or poultry, iii. 
324 

jelly, iv. 268 
Assembly dances, invitations* 

i. 132 
•• At Home," i. 57 

menu, i. 58, 60 
Avena^ steamed, ii. 225 

Bacon, ii. 31 

baked eggs and, iii. 336 

boiled, iii. 265 

broiled, iii. 265 

calf's liver and, iii. 279 

and calf's liver, iii. 265 

and eggs, iii. 266 

mushrooms with, Iv; 37 
Baked apples, iv. 121 

bass with shrimp sauce, iii. 
154 

beans, Boston, iii. 257 

bean soup, iii. 82 

beefsteak & la Jardinidre» 
iii. 230 

bluefish, iii. 116 

calf's head, iii. 275 

calf's heart, iu. 330 

carp, iii. 165 

cauliflower, iv. 69 

chicken, iii. 296 

chowder, iii. 117 



Baked cod's head, iii. 120 

crabs, iii. 171 

creamed codfish, iiL 118 

eels, iii. 150 

egg-plant, iv. 59 

eggs and bacon, ill. 336 

eggs and tomatoes, iv. 104 

fish, U. 187 

fresh mackerel with oyster 
dressing, iiL 131 

fried chicken, iii. 297 

halibut with lobster Bailee^ 
iii. 138 

mushrooms, iv. 37 

omelet, iii. 345 

partridges, iii. 316 

pickerel, iiL 164 

pike in sour cream (Ger- 
man), iii. 162 

pur^, iv. 51 

red snapper, iii. 155 

salmon-trout, iii. 142 

salt mackerel, iL 187 

sausages, iiL 256 

shad, iii. 132 

smelts, iii. 146 

soft dams, iii. 179 

tomatoes with eggs, iv. 101 
Baking, casserole, ii. 177 

process, ii. 185 

time table, ii. 295 
BaUs, L 125 

assembly dances, L 158 

bam dances, L 155 

chaperon, i. 150, 168 

Cinderella dances, L 152 

costume, i. 154 

cotillon, i. 157 

dancing, i. 145 

dancing classes, i. 157 

dancing introductions, L 145 

debutante dances, L 162 

debutante invitations to, L 
131 

dinner dances, i. 153 

dress for men and women* 
i. 174 

essentials in arrangement^ 
L 139 

extra guests, i. 136 



INDEX 



233 



•^ 



Balls— floor, i. 141 

" German," i. 157 

hoBt, duties of, i. 163 

hostess, duties of, i. 165 

house dances, i. 152 

interval between dances, L 
150 

invitations, i. 126, 127 

invitations may be written, 
i. 129 

music, i. 141 

programmes for dance, i* 
144 

seats, i. 144 

subscription, i. 151 

suppers, i. 171 
Ballroom etiquette — arrival, 

entrance, etc., i. 144 
Ballotln of lamb, with green 

peas, iii. 246 
Balnamoon skink, or Irish 

soup, iii. 32 
Banana fritters, iv. 164 

shortcake, iv. 178 
Banbury tarts, iv. 277 
Barbadoes punch, v. 113 
Barley gruel, iv. 259 

soup, cream of, iii. 43 

water, iv. 259 
Bass, baked, with shrimp 

sauce, iii. 154 
Basting, ii. 189 
Basto, V. 155 
Batters, li. 196 
Bavarian cream, iv. 309 
Bean and tomato soup, iii. 79 

(baked) soup, iii. 82 

(dried) soup, iii. 69 

(lima) pur^e, iii. 60 

(red) pur^e, iii. 59 

(mock turtle) soup, iii. 80 

soup, iii. 82 

(tomato and) soup, iii. 75 

(white) soup, iii. 73 
Beans, boiled, ii. 218 

Boston baked, iii. 257; It. 
46 

dried, ii. 221 

French, & la maltre d'hote!, 
ir. 41 



Beans, fricasseed, iv. 44 

haricot (lima beans), & la 
maitre d'hdtel, iv. 42 

haricot, with onions, iv. 43 

kidney, iv. 45 

lima, ft la poulette. It. 43 

mashed, iv. 44 

string beans, ii. 215 

string, boiled, iv. 40 

string (cream sauce), iv. 41 

string, with gravy, iv. 41 
Beauregard cod, iii. 121 
Bechamel sauce, iii. 195 
Beef k la mode, iii. 215 

and chicken stock, iii. 8 

appearance of good, ii. 26 

balls, iii./ 226 

bouillon, iii. 9 

braised, recipe, ii. 175 

brisket of, stewed, iii. 233 

corned, iii. 234 

creamed dried, iii. 225 

curried, iii. 226 

dried, with eggs, iii. 225 

flUet of, braised, iii. 233 

fore-quarter of, ii. 27 

fricandeau of, iii. 236 

fritters, iii. 235 

hash, iii. 218 

heart, boiled, iii. 232 

hind-quarter of, ii. 27 

hot-pot, iii. 231 

how divided by butcher, iL 
27 

juice, ii. 289 

liver, breaded, iii. 223 

loaf, iii. 227 

most nourishing of meats, 
ii. 22 

mutton, and veal broth, iv. 
260 

names of different parts, 
ii. 127 

patties, meat for, iii. 235 

porterhouse steaks, ii. 27 

pot roast, ii. 175 

prime ribs, ii. 27 

ragout of, iii. 219 

r^chauffg & la Jardinidre^ 
liL226 



234 



Ik* !»;.♦. 



Beef, riaaolea of, ill. 218 
roast, recipe, ^'don'ts,** iL 

190 
roUed boUed, iU. 230 
Bides of, ii. 27 
sirloin, IL 27 
smothered, iii. 228 
soup, iii. 10, 21 
soup (French method), ii. 

144 
spiced pressed, iii. 220 
steaks, ii. 27 
steaks, short, ii. 27 
steak and oxiions, iii. 209 
steak, baked, it la Jar- 
diniere, iii. 230 
steak pie, iii. 293 
steak with mushrooms, iiL 

208 
•tew, recipe, ii. 162 
stew with dumplings, iii. 

216 
tea, ii. 281, 289; ir. 260 
tea, hot, ▼. 33 
tenderloin of, ii. 27 
tongue, braised (No. 1), iii. 

232 
tongue fillets, santded, iii. 

329 
Beer soup (German method), 

iii. 102 
Beet greens with young 

beets, ir. 57 
soup, cream of, iii. 38 
Beets, iv. 56 
boUed, U. 220 
creamed, iv. 58 
pickled. It. 58 
selecting, washing, oook- 

ing, ii. 212 
Belgian hare, ii. 40 
hare, stuffed and roasted, 

iii. 316 
Bemaise sauce, iiL 200 
Beverages, ii. 205 
apricot brandy, t. 47 
beef tea, v. 83 
blackberry wine, ▼. 41 
cherry brandy, ▼. 46 
oherry wine, ▼• 47 



Beverages — chocolate, v. 

cider, v. 36 

cocoa, ▼. 32 

ooooa shells, ▼. 32 

coffee, various styles* 
29, 30 

cowslip wine, v. 43 

curaQOa, v. 45 

currant wine, v. 42 

dandelion wine, v. 48 

elderberry wine, v. 44 

ginger beer, v. 37, 38 

ginger cordial, v. 46 

grape juice, v. 49 

grape wine, v. 48, 49 

horse's neck, v. 40 

koumiss, v. 88 

lemonade, various styleSy 
38, 89 

limeade, v. 35 

May wine, v. 43 

milk and seltzer, v. 88 

milk shake, v. 33 

nectar, v. 40 

orangeade, v. 36 

orange sherbet, v. 40 

pineapple water, v. 87 

rhubarb wine, v. 49 

root beer, v. 34 

Saratoga cooler, v. 38 

seidlitz water, v. 34 

soda cocktail, v. 40 

soda nectar, v. 40 

tea punch, v. 32 

tea, various styles, T. 8i 
Bimbo punch, v. 104 
Biscayan cod, iii. 119 
Biscuit, ii. 234; iv. 384 

glac6, iv. 326 

tortoni, iv. 328 
Bishop, V. 89 
Bisque, cheese, iiL 67 

chicken, iii. 58 

clam, iiL 52 

com, iii. 57 

of crabs, iiL 56 

of halibut (No. 1), ilL 53 

of lobster, iiL 65 

mock, iU. 58 

oyster, iii. 55 



INDEX 



235 



Bisque» salmoD, iii. 54 

tomato (No. 1), iii. 68 
Bitten and liquors, v. 172 
Black bass, boiled, with 

cream gravy, iii. 153 
Blackberry pudding, iv. 290 

wine, ▼.41 
Black stripe, v. 122 
Blanching, ii. 203 
Blancmange, Irish moss, com 

com starch, ii. 290 
Blanquette of lamb, iii. 
245 

of veal, with cucumbers, 
iii. 282 
Bloaters, broiled, iii. 156 
Blue blazer, ▼. 79 
Bluefish, baked, iii. 116 

broiled, iii. 115 
Bohemian ice cream, iv. 318 
Boiled asparagus, iv. 64 

bacon, iii. 265 

beef, rolled, iii. 230 

beers heart, iii. 232 

beets, !▼. 58 

black bass, with cream 
gravy, iii, 153 

cabbage, iv. 76 

calves* tongue, iii. 273 

carrots, iv. 62 

celery, iv. 60 

dinner, old-fashioned, iii. 
224 

eggs, iii. 333 

fresh cdOilsb, iii. 122 

halibut^ iii. 138 

leg of mutton, iii. 230 

mutton, recipe, ii. 150 

parsnips, iv. 39 

potatoes, recipe, U. 155 

red snapper, iii. 155 

salmon, iii. 141 

salmon-trout, iii. 143 

sausages^ with white idne, 
iii. 257 

soft-shell crabs, iii. 170 

string beans, iv. 40 

sweetbreads, plain, iiL 286 

sweetbreads vrith tomato 
maaep iii. M6 



Boiled water, when ndi to 
use, ii. 151 
winter squash, iv. 87 
Boiling; effect iu food ele- 
ments, ii. 151 
meat, ii. 25, 154 
meat, effect, ii. 153 
meat for stews and fricas- 
sees, ii. 154 
process, ii. 150 
time table, ii. 297 
vegetables, ii. 155 
vegetables whole in soft 

water, ii. 164 
water containing salt or 

sugar, ii. 153 
water, soft and hard, ii. 
153 
Bonbons, iv. 333 
Boned baked pickerel, iiL 165 
Bones, stock from, iiL 7 
Boning, ii. 203 
recipe, ii. 204 
Boonekamp and whiskey, ▼. 

121 
Bordeaux wines, v. 142 
Boston baked beans, iiL 267; 
iv. 46 
brown bread, iv. 135 
Bouillabaisse, iii. 100 
Bouillon, beef, iiL 9 
nutritive value slight* IL 19 
stimulating effect of, il. 20 
Bouquet of wines, v. 132 
Brain, calf's, breaded, iiL 
274 
sauce, iii. 274 
Braised beef, recipe, iL 175 
beefs tongues {"No. 1), iii. 

232 
flUet of beef, iiL 233 
fiUet of mutton, iii. 241 
or smothered sweetbreadSy 
iU. 289 
Braising process, IL 174 
Brandy, v. 169 
and ginger ale, v. 117 
and gum, v. 118 
fmd nun punch, y» 90 
and 80da» ▼• 117 



236 



INDEX 



Brandy fizz, v. 76 

flip (hot and cold), v. 81, 82 

punch, V. 89 

sangaree, ▼. 85 

shrub, V. 88 

sling (hot and cold), v. 77 

straight, ▼. 116 
Bread, ii. 229 

Boston brown, iv. 135 
Bottle cocktail, ▼. 53 
Brandy champerelle, ▼. 70 

cocktail, ▼. 52 

cocktail, improTed, ▼. 53 

crusta, ▼. 60 

daisy, ▼. 61 

fix, V. 65 

Bcaffa, ▼. 70 

smash, ▼. 64 

sour, V. 71 

toddy (cold or hot), ▼. 73 

breakfast rolls, iv. 140 
Bread crumbs, ii. 216 

custard pudding, iy. 292 

dressing for game, iii. 203 
. . entire wheat, ii. 235 
'for turkey, iii. 303 

fried fdr soup, iv. 148 

Graham, ii. 235 

made with a sponge, ii. 
235 

making, essentials, ii. 229 

making, fermentation, 11. 
233 

nutritive quality, analysis, 
etc., ii. 97 

raised corn bread, ii. 236 

raised muffins, ii. 236 

recipes, ii. 234 

sauce, iii. 201 

sour, how caused, ii. 233 

sticks, iv. 136 

cheese toast, iv. 151 

coffee-bread, iv. 139 
cream toast, iv. 149 

creamed mushroom toast, 
iv. 150 

egg muffins, iv. 145 

English muffins, iv. 142 
fried or French toast^ iv. 



Bread, Graham, iv. 134 
Graham muffins, iv. 144 
Graham rolls, iv. 141 
German toast, iv. 147 
liominy muffins, iv. 144 
hot cross buns, iv, 142 
milk toast, iv. 149 
oatmeal muffins, iv. 145 
oyster toast, iv. 150 
Parker House rolls, iv. 141 
plain com, iv. 135 
pulled, iv. 133 
rice muffins, iv. 144 
rusk, iv. 138 
rye, iv. 135 

Scotch shortbread, iv. 139 
Scotch soda scones, iv. 139 
Sally Lunn, iv. 138 
Sally Lunn muffins, iv. 144 
toast, buttered, iv. 147 
unfermented, iv. 133 
Virginia com, iv. 13( 
whole wheat, iv. 133 
zwieback, iv. 150 

Breaded calf's brains, ilL 274 
beefs liver, iiL 223 
veal cutlets, with tomato 
sauce, iii. 268 

Bread pudding, light, iv. 261 

Breakfast, family should be 
pleasant, i. 51 
formal, i. 49 
formal, costume, i. 50 
formal, guests leave almost 

immediately after, i. 50 
formal, menu and service, 

i. 50 
hominy (boiled), iv. 130 
invitations to, i. 50 ' 
rolls, English, iv. 143 
speech, v. 178 

Breast of kunb, roasted & la 
Milanese, iii. 245 
of veal, stuffed, iii. 272 
Bride,*' toast to, v. 200 

Brioche paste, ii. 253 

Brisket of beef, stewed, iii. 
233 

Brochettes, lamb, iii. 247 

BcoUed baccm, iiL 266 



it 



INDEX 



237 



Broiled bloaters, iii. 156 
blueflsh, iii. 115 
brook trout^ iii. 163 
calf's Uyer, iii. 278 
canyas-back ducks, iii. 308 
green com, iv. 56 
halibut, iii. 139 
ham, iii. 266 
lamb chops, iii. 240 
mackerel, iii. 129 
mackerel, and tarragon 

butter, iii. 130 
mushrooms, iv. 33 
mutton chops, iii. 239 
oysters, in the shell, or on 

the half shell, iii. 175 
oysters on toast, iii. 176 
pheasant^ iii. 319 
pork and Chili sauce, iii. 

251 
pork chops, iii. 260 
salt cod, iii. 120 
shad, iii. 134 
smoked salmon, iii. 144 
steak, recipe, ii. 183 
sweetbreads with stuffed 

tomatoes, iii. 287 
teal ducks, iii. 309 
▼enison steaks, iii. 321 
Broiling chickens, time for, 

ii. 182 
essentials for, ii. 180 
meat, test for, ii. 182 
meat, use of buttered 

paper, ii. 182 
pan-broiling, ii. 183 
time-table for, ii. 184 
time-table, ii. 297 
Brook trout, broiled, iii. 163 
Broth, beef, mutton, and 

▼eal, iv. 260 
calves' feet, iv. 262 
chicken, iii. 28; iv. 263 
clear, iv. 261 
mutton, iii. 28; iv. 266 
Scotch mutton, iii. 30 
veal, iv. 266 
Broths, white, with vermi- 
celli, iv. 268 
Brown-bread pudding, iv. 292 



Brown sauce, iii. 193 
Browned potato soup, Iii. 78 
Brunette sandwich, iv. 160 
Brunoise soup, iii. 12 
Brusels sprouts, iv. 73 
sprouts, sautS, iv. 74 
sprout, consomm6 with, iiL 
16 
Buckwheat cakes, iv. 171 
Buns, hot cross, iv. 142 
Burdwan, Indian, iii. 306 
Bums, treating, ii. 344 
Burnt brandy and peach, v. 
121 
sugar (for sauces and 
soups), iii. 107 
Butter, apple, American^ iv. 
123 
cakes, iv. 145 
how to keep, ii. 344 
Maftre d'Hotel, iiL 195 
nut, V. 14 

over-salted, bad for cook- 
ing: cheap butter not 
economical, ii. 71 
Scotch, iv. 333 
sour, how treated, ii. 344 
Buttered toast, iv. 14 

Cabbage, ii. 213 
& la Lilloise, iv. 5 
and bacon, iv. 72 
boiled, ii. 218; iv. 76 
creamed, iv. 73 
how to keep fresh, iv. 7$ 
soup, cream of, iii. 45 
stuffed, iv. 74 
Swiss, iv. 79 
Caf§ au lait, v. 29 
Cake, almonds for, ii. 266 
chemistry of, ii. 262 
containing butter baked 
by moderate heat, ii. 
263 
egg frosting, ii. 271 
eggs, how treated, ii. 266 
frosting, boiled, ii. 270 
gingerbread, ii. 270 
lemon peel used, ii. 266 
light, ii. 268 



238 



INDEX 



Cake makincT* ii. S02 

molaaaes, ii. 269 

plain froBting, ii. 271 

plain recipe, ii. 267 

Bponge, ii. 269 

EUgsT for, ii. 266 

■unahine froating, ii. 271 
Cakes, almond, iv. 180 

angel food, iT. 179 

anise-seed, iv. 202 

apple fritters, iv. 168 

apple gfems, iv. 146 

apricot fritters, iv. 163 

banana fritters, iv. 164 

banana shortcake, iv. 178 

Bride's, iv. 180 

buckwheat, iv. 171 

butter, iv. 145 

caramel, iv. 185 

care in getting flour, ii. 266 

care of butter, ii. 265 

care of currants, ii. 265 

cheese, iv. 197 

cherry shortcake, iv. 178 

chocolate cream, iv. 181 

citron, iv. 194 

clam Mtters, iv. 162 

cocoanut layer, iv. 181 

com, iv. 177 

com fritters, Iv. 165 

corn-meal griddle, iv. 170 

cream, iv, 189 

cream pancakes, iv. 174 

currant, iv. 196 

dark fruit, iv. 194 

devil's, iv. 183 

drop, iv. 202 

electric, iv. 190 

English pancakes, Iv. 172 

English walnut, iv. 184 

fish, iii. 110 

fish and meat fritters, iv. 
163 

flannel cakes, Iv. 171 

for card party, iv. 184 

for musical, iv. 182 

fortune, iv. 191 

fritters (batters), iv. 161 

fruit, iv. 186 

gold, iv. 190 



Cakes — Oraham gems, iv. 146 
Graham griddle, iv. 168 
griddle, ii. 198 
griddle, Geneva^ It. 169 
griddle, iv. 167 
griddle, with eggs, iv. 188 
hickory nut, iv. 184 
hoe, iv. 177 

hominy griddle, Iv. 178 
honigkuchen, Iv. 197 
hucldeberry, iv. 189 
huckleberry griddle, Iv. 169 
hucklebery shortcake. It. 

178 
Indian griddle, iv, 170 
jelly, iv. 191 
Johnny, iv, 176 
lemon, iv. 191 
lemon cheese, Iv. 197 
marbled, iv. 185 
marshmallow, iv. 199 
Mocha, iv. 180 
orange, iv. 192 
orange fritters, Iv. 164 
oyster fritters, iv. 162 
pancakes, iv. 172 
pancakes (ft la cr^me), iv, 

173 
pancakes, French, iv. 174 
pancakes, German, iv. 175 
pancakes, plain, iv. 173 
pancakes, snow, iv. 174 
pancakes, without eggs. It. 

175 
peach fritters, iv. 165 
peach shortcake, iv. 78 
pineapple fritters, iv. 164 
popovers, iv. 176 
puffball fritters, iv. 165 
plain layer, iv. 183 
pound, iv. 195 
raspberry shortcake, iv. 178 
rice gems, iv. 146 
rice griddle, iv. 170 
rice waffles, iv. 166 
rum, iv. 193 

Russian punch tart, iv. 197 
rye griddle, iv. 168 
shortcake, iv. 177 
silver, iv. 183 



INDEK 



239 



Cakes, small, iv. 201 
snow, iv. 184 
Southern com pone, iv. 177 
sponge, iv. 193 
strawbeny shortoake. It. 

178 
sunshine, iv. 181 
ThanlcsgiyiniT surprise, iv. 

193 
▼egetable fritters, iv. 16& 
violette, iv. 183 
wedding, iv. 186 
wheat, iv. 187 
Calf 8 brain's, breaded, iiL 274 
f oot consommd, iii. 14 
head, baked, iii. 275 
liver and bacon, iii. 265; iii. 

279 
liver and onions saut6, iii. 

279 
liver, broiled, iii. 278 
tongue, boiled, iii. 273 
Calling cards (see '' Cards *') 
Calls, on new acquaintances 

before extending invita- 
tion, i. 116 
after funeral, by pallbear^ 

ers, i. 116 
after wedding, i. 116 
"At Home'*: etiquette of 

hostess and guest, i. 122 
by stranger after invita- 
tion to entertainment, i. 

119 
Calling, by women on each 

other after introduction, 

i. 102 
Calls; etiquette for men and. 

women, i. 123, 124 
formal, length, i. 123 
frequency St, i. 117 
'' not at home," L 122 
importance of, i. 118 
permission to take a friend 

in making, i. 115 
when to make, 1. 113 
returning, i. 117 
women's business, on a 

man, 1. 119 * 
Calves' feet broth» iv. 262 



Calves' feet jeUy, iv. 262 
Canadian punch, v. 103 
Canap6 caviare, iv. 251 
Candies, almond chocolate 
drops, iv. 389 
almond creams, iv. 339 
bonbons, iv. 333 
butterscotch, iv. 833 
chocolate caramels, iv. 334 
Comanche, iv. 338 
cooked cream walnuts, iv. 

835 
cream caramels, iv. 334 
cream cocoanut, iv. 835 
fudges, iv. 337 
general directions, iv. 832 
hickory-nut, iv. 336 
how to pull candy, iv. 333 
lemon and peppermint 

drops, iv. 334 
maple sugar caramel, iv. 

337 
nougat, iv. 338 
peanut brittle, iv. 337 
plain taffy, iv. 335 
ponouchi, iv. 837 
popcorn balls, iv. 340 
uncooked creamed nuts, iv. 

336 
velvet molasses, iv. 336 
Canning fruit, iv. 271 
apple butter, iv. 274 
chipped gingered pear^ iv. 

272 
jam, iv. 273 
marmalade, Iv. 278 
Canvas-back duck, broiled, 
m. 808 
duck, roasted, iii. 308 
Caper sauce, for boiled mut- 
ton, ii. 156 
sauce for mutton, ill. 201 
Capon, ii. 34-37 
roasted veith cream stuff- 
ing, iii. 304 
Caramel filling for cake, iv. 
199 
(for sauces and soups), llL 
107 

ice cream, iv. 828 



240 



INDEX 



•» 



Caramel pudding, iy. 296 

syrup, ii. 201 
Cards, acknowledging^ condo- 
lence or enquiry, i. 108 

announcing birth, and re- 
plies, i. 110 

" At Home," i. 121 

by man at an "At Home, 
1. 92 

debutante's, i. 97 

form of, for man, i. 88 

how used by man, i. 91 

in attending receptions, L 
185 

married couples', i. 98 

mourning, i. 106 

number to leave in calling, 
i. 91 

of condolence and inquiry, 

^ 1. 107 

of introduction, i. 02, 101 

••P. P. C," i. Ill 

professional, not to be used 
in society, i. 90 
traveller's use of tempo- 
rary address, i. 112 

use of titles, i. 89 

when left at doors, instead 
of a call, i. 104 

when left by stranger ac- 
companying friend, i. 104 

widow may use her own 
Christian name, i. 95 

woman should not use hus- 
band's title, i. 94 

writing temporary address 
on, i. 100 

women's " At Home " days, 
i. 96 

women's business calls, i. 

103 
women's, divorced, i. 96 
women's forms, etc., i. 93 
women's, "Jr." and "Sr.," 

i. 95 
women, number to be left 

in calling, i. 101; i. 99 : 
women's, turning down 

comers, obsolete, i. 98 
women's use of, L 98 



Cards — ^women's, widow; use 
of maiden surname, i* 96 
Carp, ii. 49 

baked, iii. 165 
Carrot pur^e, ilL 60 

soup, iii. 77 
Carrots, ii. 213, 221 

(ft la Flamande), iv. 61 

boUed, iv. 62 

how to dress in the Qep- 
man way, iv. 63 

stewed in cream, iv. 63 
Carving, beefsteak, v. 20 

boned chicken, ▼. 27 

breast of veal, v. 24 

broiled chicken, v. 27 

chicken, boned and broiledl^ 
V. 27 

chicken or turkey, t. 25 

corned beef, v. 22 

duck, V. 26 

fillet of veal, v. 24 

fish, V. 28 

fish, planked or broiled, t. 
28 

fore-quarter of lamb, ▼. 23 

goose, V. 26 

ham, V. 23 

hare, v. 27 

haunch of venison, v. 24 

lamb, fore-quarter of, v. 23 

leg of mutton, v. 22 

loin of veal, v. 23 

mutton, leg of, v. 22 

mutton, saddle of, v. 24 

partridge, peasant, quail, t. 
27 

pig, sucking, v. 25 

rabbits, v. 27 

rib roast, v. 20 

saddle of mutton, v. 24 

sirloin roast, v. 20 

steaks, round and romp, ▼• 
22 

sucking pig, ▼. 25 

tongue, V. 22 

turkey or chicken, ▼• 85 

veal, breast of, v. 24 

veal, fillet, v. 24 

veal, loin of, v. 23 



INDEX 



241 



CarrlB^ Teniaon, haunch of» 
▼. 84 
woodcock, snipe, and 
plover, ▼. 27 

Casserole, ii. 177 
of fish, iii. 113 
rice and meat, ii. 178 
tomato sance, ii. 178 

Catawba cobbler, v. 67 

Catfish, fried, iii. 164 

Catsup, mushroom, iy, 38 
tomato, iy. 258 

Cauliflower, ii. 213 
au gratin, iy. 70 
baked, iy. 69 
boiled with butter sauce, 

iy. 69 
escalIoi)ed, iy. 69 
how to cook, iy. 68 
in cheese, iy. 72 
soup, cream of, iii. 51 
with stuffing, iy. 71 
in tomato sauce, iv. 71 

Cayeach, mackerel, iii. 131 

Cayiare, anchoyies substi- 
tuted for, iy. 252 
canap6, iy. 251 

Celery, ii. 213 
boiled, iy. 60 
how to dress, iy. 60 
how to fry, iy. 61 
soup, cream of, iii. 51 

Century Club punch, y. 107 

Cereals, breakfast hominy 
(boiled), iy. 130 
fried hominy, iy. 130 
hominy croquettes, iy. 131 
milk porridge, iy. 131 
porridge, oatmeal, iy. 129 

Celery, stewed (ft la crdme), 
iy. 60 

Cereals, cooking, ii. 224 
nutritiye yalue, composi- 
tion, eve., ii. 96 

Chafing-dish supper, sugges- 
tions, what to haye, L 
46 
recipes: broiled chicken, y. 

11 
broiled oyster, y. 6 



Chafing-dish — calf's brains 

with scrambled eggs, y. 3 
cheese omelet, y. 9 
clams & la Newburg, y. 3 
crab meat with green pep- 

-peTB, y. 4 
creamed mushrooms, y. 12 
creamed toast, y. 10 
creamed chicken, y. 11 
creamed codfish, y. 5 
creamed lobster, y. 5 
Deerf oot farm sausages and 

bacon, y. 1 
finnan haddie, y. 12 
French omelet, y. 8 
little pigs in blankets, y. 4 
lobster ft la Newburg, y. 5 
nut omelet, y. 9 
omelet^ y. 7 

oyster ft la Newburg, t. 6 
oyster rarebit, y. 6 
poached eggs with anchoyy 

or caviare, y. 1 
preparation of, y. 1 
rum omelet, y. 9 
scrambled eggs, y. 10 
Spanish omelet, y. 8 
sweetbreads ft la crftme, ▼ 

4 
sweetbread saut€, y. 3 
sweet omelet, y. 9 
terrapin, y. 7 
tripe ft la Creole, v. 3 
tripe ft la poulette, y. 3 
yeal kidney saut6, y. 2 
Venetian eggs, y. 2 
Welsh rarebit, y. 10 
Champagne, its classification, 

y. 139 
the discovery of, v. 134 
the production of, v. 133 
punch, y. 98 
sauce for ham, iii. 198 
cobbler, v. 66 
cocktail, v. 53 
velvet, v. 60 
Charcoal for removing odors, 

etc., ii. 345 
Charlotte russe, iv. 298 
Cheese, analyses, iL 84 



242 



INDCK 



^dritaahrfM^ 



Cheese and halibnt scallop, 
UL 141 

and nut sandwich. It. 154 

bisque, ill. 57 

oream soup, No. 1 and 2, 
ill. 36 

digrestibilltv of, 11. 73 

dishes, redipes, 11. 85 

eggs with, 111. 830 

fondue, !▼. 842 

fritters, iv. 343 

Parmesan cheese and oys- 
ters, iv. 344 

head, ill. 264 

manufacture and varieties 
of, 11. 72-82 

omelet. Hi. 342; iv. 848 

puddingf, It. 344 

Welsh rarebit, iv. 340 

Welsh rarebit, No. 2, iv. 
341 

Welsh rarebit, without ale* 
iv. 341 
^ sandwich, Iv. 153 

sauce, ill. 190 

souffi6, No. 2, iv. 842 

straws, iv. 845 

cherry, Iv. 844 

very nutritious, 11. 83 
Chemistry for the cook, 11. 

343 
Cherries (raw), Iv. 129 
Cherry brandy, v. 46 

pudding, Iv. 200 

shortcake, Iv. 178 

wine, V. 47 
Chestnuts, v. 16 

comp6te of, iv. 112 

consomm6, ill. 19 

cream of, soup, HI. 40 

dressing, ill. 203 

pure6 of, iv. Ill 

roasted, Iv. 113 

sauce for turkey or chicken, 
ill. 196 

stewed, iv. 112 

stufilng, ill. 303 

stuffing for pigr, suckincp, 
lU. 261 
Chive sauce, ill. 197 



Chicken-and*ham pie, IIL 229 
and rice pudding, ill. 303 
baked, ill. 296 
baked, fried, lU. 297 
beef and, stock, ilL 8 
bisque. Hi. 53 
broth, ill. 28 
broth (invalids), Iv. 263 
carving, v. 25, 27 
casserole, 11. 177 
cream soup, ill. 41 
curry. Hi. 299 
en caserole. Hi. 300 
for roasting*, li. 33 
fricassee, ii. 164 
fricasseed, ill. 299 
fried. Hi. 296 
gumbo, ill. 30 
gumbo with oysters, Hi 31 
minced, iv 263 
patties. Hi. 293 
pie. Hi. 291 
pilau of. Hi. 300 
potple. Hi. 228 
pressed, ill. 298 
salad rolls, iv. 243 
sandwich, iv. 152 
sauce for sweetbreads^ ill. 

198 

saut£, 11. 170 

scalloped. Hi. 297 

soup quickly made, lU. 18 

soup with leeks and oiMon8» 
Hi. 12 

spring chickens, U. 32 33 

BtufPed with oysters, iU. 301 

terrapin. Hi. 298 

timbales, IH. 301, 381 

with sauce (invalid), Iv. 263 

with sippets, iv. 264 
Chickens, time for bolHng, iL 

182 
Chili sauce, iv. 258 
Chocolate, li. 208; v. 32 

cream filling, iv. 198 

filling, iv. 198 

ice cream, iv. 317 

mouss^, iv. 325 

pie, iv. 280 

pudding, iv. 290 



INDEX 



243 



Chops, lamb, with champagne 
sauce, iii. 247 

mutton and lamb, 11. 29 

mutton, broiled, iii. 239 

mutton panbroiled, HI. 240 

pork, broiled. Hi, 260 

pork, fried, Iii. 260 
Chorissa, or Jewish sausage, 

ill. 237 
Chowchow, iv. 253 
Chowder, baked, iii 117 

(clam), iii. 91 

(com), iii. 98 

defined, ii. 161 

farmer's chowder, ill. 74 

(fish), iU. 89 

(French fisherman's), iii« 
92 

(potato), iii. 97 

(soft-clam), iii. 92 
Chutney, Indian, iv. 254 
Cider, v. 35 

cup, ▼. 69 

punch, V. 114 

soup, iii. 104 
Clam bisque. Hi. 52 

chowder, UL 91 
Clams, ii. 58 

baked soft, iH. 179 

fritters, iii. 179 

(soft) chowder, HL 92 
Claret, v. 142 

cobbler, v. 67 

punch, ▼. 94 
Clear soup with noodles. Hi. 

13 
aeaning fish, H. 44 

poultry, ii. 36 
CoDbler, sherry, champagne, 
Catawba, claret, hock, 
sauteme or whiskey, v. 
56, 67, 68 
Oock-a-Ieekie soup. Hi. 66 
Cocktail, absinthe, v. 52 

bottle, ▼. 53 

brandy and improved 
brandy, v. 52, 53 

champagne, r. 53 

cofPee, V, 54 
, fmitft It. 118 



Cocktail, gin. Old Tom, and 
improved gin, v. 54 

Japanese v. 55 

Jersey, v. 55 

Manhattan, t. 54 

Martinez, v. 55 

mjoming glory, r. 55 

oyster, HI. 175 

Saratoga, t. 56 

vermouth, and fancy ver- 
mouth, V. 50 

when served at dinner^ 
1. 27 

whiskey and improved 
whiskey, v. 56 
Cocoa, ii. 208; v. 88 
Cocoanut, v. 15 
Cocoa shells, v. 82 
Cocoanut filling, iv. 198 

soup, iii. 70 
Cod & la Bechamel, Hi. 118 

Beauregard, Hi. 121 

Biscayan, iii. 119 

salt, broHed, iii. 120 

salted, with brown butter^ 
iH. 119 

tongues, fried. Hi. 129 

tongues, poulette, ill. 129 

tongues with black butter 
sauce, 129 

tongues with egg sauce, IH. 
128 
Cod's head, baked. Hi. 120 
Codfish & la bonne femme, 
iH. 124 

balls, iH. 122 

boiled, fresh, iii. 122 

cakes. Hi. 123 

baked, creamed, Hi. 118 

creamed salt. Hi. 121 

fillets, Hollandaise, Hi. 123 

hash, iii. 124 

in cream sauce, iii. 124 

maitre d'hotel, iH. 123 

80u£B6, Hi. 127 

stewed, iu. 127 

with macaroni, iii. 125 
Coffee, ii. 280 

after dinner (French), ii 
207 



244 



INDEX 



Coffee, "after dinner/* or 
black, y. 29 

Arabian, y. 30 
Coffee-bread, iy. 139 
Coffee, breakfast, y. 29 

cocktail, y. 54 

effects of use of, ii. 206 

ice cream, iy. 317 

iced, y. 30 

Kirsch, y. 59 

recipes, ii. 205 

yegetarian, y. 30 
Coll^rt consomm^ iii. 18 
Cold meat^ yinaigrette of, iii. 
281 

ruby punch, y. 104 

slaw, ii. 240 
Columbia skin, y. 81 
Combinations, ii. 298 
Compote of chestnuts, iy. 112 

of fruity iy. 128 
Condiments, classified and de- 
fined, ii. 100 
Consommg & rimp^ratrioe, 
iii. 18 

almond, iii. 14 

amber, iii. 14 

cairs foot, iU. 14 

chestnut, iii. 19 

Colbert, iii. 18 

curry, iii. 19 

duchess, iii. 18 

spinach, iii. 19 

y^ith aspcu*agus tips, iii. 16 

ydth egg balls, iii. 15 

ydth mushrooms, iii. 17 

marrow balls for, iii. 17 

printanidre, iii. 21 

royal, iii. 20 

stock for, iii. 8 

with Brussels sprout, iiL 16 

ydth cucumber, iii. 16 

with tomato blocks, iii. 20 

with yermicelli, iii. 17 
Cooked snipes (German fash- 
ion), iii. 320 
Cookery for inyalids, ii. 279 

for inyalids, (see also "In- 
yalid cookery ") , iy. 259 

art of, U. 114 



Cookies, molasses, iy. 202 

plain, iy. 201 
Cooking, definitions of ttrroMg 
y. 212-230 

glossary, y. 212-230 

meats, when to use slow 
fire; object of cooking in 
water, ii. 24 

school, the, object and 
scope of this yolume, ii. 
2-4 

table of ayerage cost of 

material used in, ii. 294 

terms used in, y. 212-230 

time-table for, ii. 29«i 

twofold object of, ii. 104 

utensils, ii. 310 
Copenhagen, y. 80 
CoquiUes of fish (No. 1), iiL 

109 
Cordial, ginger, y. 46 
Corn, iy. 52 

bisque, iii. 57 

bread, plain, iy. 135 

bread, raised, ii. 236 

bread, Virginia, iy. 134 

chowder, iii. 98 

creamed, iy. 54 

escalloped, iy. 52 

fried, iy. 55 

fritters, iy. 53 

green, ii. 214 

green, omelet, iii. 348 

meal mush, boiled, iL 228 

pudding, iy. 53 

starch blancmange, ii. 290 
Corned beef, iii. 234 
Correspondence, i. 301 

addressing distingfuished 

,. person, i. 309 

addresing the enyelope, L 
308 

commencing a letter, i. 306 

concluding a letter, i. 307 

crests, monograms, etc., i* 
303 

expressions to ayoid, i. 302 

mourning stationery, i. 304 

post-oards, i. 305 

signature to a letter* L 307 



INDEX 



245 



Correspondence — simplicity, 
i. 308 
stationeij» i. 303 
the third person, i. 305 
written invitations, i. 309 

Cost, average, of material 
nsed in coking, ii. 294 

CotiUion, i. 157 

Cottager's pie, iv. 34 

Cottage pudding, iv. 282 

Conrbouillon, iii, 100 

Court-bouillon (for boiling 
fish), iii. 184 

Cowslip wine, y. 43 

Crab soup, iii. 96 

Crabs, baked, iU. 171 
bisque of, iii. 56 
deyilled, (No. 1), liL 170 
BoftHshell, ii. 58 
soflHshell, boiled, iii. 179 
soft-shell, fried, iii. 171 

Cracker raisin pudding, !▼• 
288 

Cranberry soup, iii. 84 

Crayfish in jelly, iii. 158 

Cream, Bavarian, iv. 309 
canary, iv. 303 
caramels, iv, 334 
cheese soup. No. 1 and 29 

iii. 36 
cherry, iv. 310 
chicken, soup, iii. 41 
chocolate, iv. 306 
fiUing, ii. 200; iv. 198 
fran^pane, iv. 304 
honeycomb, iv. 305 
Jellyfish, iv. 310 
junket, iv. 308 
lemon puff, iv. 308 
lemon whip, iv. 308 
of asparagus soup, iii. 50 
of barley soup, iii. 43 
of beet soup, iii. 38 
of cabbage soup, iii. 45 
of caulifiower soup, iii. 51 
of celery soup, iii. 51 
of chestnut soup, iii. 49 
of green pea soup, iii. 51 
of lettuce soup, iii. 50 
of mushroom soup, ilL 44 



Cream of pea soup, Iii. 38 

of potato, iii. 44. 

of sago soup, iii. 39 

of sorrel soup, iii. 43 

of spinach with egg ballSy 
iii. 48 

of turnip soup, iii. 39 

of watercress, iii. 41 

onion soup, iii. 37 

pie, iv. 280 

puffs, ii. 200; iv. 281 

Bussian, iv. 309 

sauce, iii. 189 

soups, iii. 34 

Swiss, iv. 303 

velvet^ iv. 304 

tomato soup, iii. 37 

whipped, iv. 306 
Creamed beets, iv. 58 

cabbage, iv. 73 

com, iv. 54 

dried beef, iii. 225 

lobster on toast, iii. 170 

mushrooms, iv. 35 

oysters, iii. 174 

oyster plant, iv. 33 

salt codfish, iii. 121 

shad, iii. 133 

shad roe with mushroomSy 
iii. 136 
Cr6cy soup, iii. 21 
Croquettes, fish, iii. 112 

hominy, iv. 131 

nut, V. 16 

roe, iii. 136 

strawberry, iv. 120 

sweetbread, iii. 288 

veal, with mushrooms, Iii, 
276 
Croustades, lobster, iii. 332 
Croutons, iii, 107; ii. 216 
Crullers, iv. 206 
Crusta, brandy, v. 60 

whisky, g^n, v. 61 
Cucumbers ^ la poulette, It. 
81 

consomm6 with, ill. 16 

how to dress, iv. 83 

mangoes, iv. 79 

pickled^ iv. 82 



24b 



INDEX 



mmi^mm»^mtm 



Cucumber Bauoe* iii. 191 
Cucumbers, stewed, !▼. 81 
Cucumber, stuffed, iy. 80 
Culture and elegance in the 

home, ii. 316 
wealth not a requisite to, 

ii. 321 
Cup, cider, ▼• 60 
^'Cupful," as a measare» ii. 

292 

Cup, Hebe's, ▼. 58 

Cups, fruit, iv. 118 

strawberry, iv. 130 
CuraQoa, ▼. 45 

punch, ▼. 95 
Currant jelly sanoe, iiL 197; 
iv. 311 

rolls, iv. 137 

shrub, V. 87 

wine, V. 4Z 
Curried beef, iU. 236 

eggs, iii. 340 

lentils, iv. 46 

mutton, iii. 242 

pork, iii. 250 

tomatoes with okrai iv. 

97 

tomatoes with rice, iv. 97 
Curry, consomm6, iii. 19 

of salmon, iii. 143 

chicken, iii. 299 
Custard, boiled, ii. 194 

cold, ii. 291 

pudding, baked, iv. 299 

pudding, boiled, iv. 299 

sauce, iv. 297; iv. 311 

soft, ii. 227 

■teamed, ii. 289 
Cutlets (fish), iii. 112 

mutton, and mushrooms, 
iii. 239 

pork, fried, iii. 251 

veal, breaded, with tomato 
sauce, iii. 268 

veal, plain, iii. 268 

vegetable, iv. 70 
Cuvee, the, v. 136 

Daily ration^ the choice of, 
ii. UO 



Dai^, brandy, whisky, nmit 

or gin, V. 61, 62 
Dances, refreshments. See 

*♦ Balls " 
Dancing, i. 145 
Dandelion wine, v. 48 
Date pudding, iv. 280 
D^but, i. 162 

invitations, L 131 
Definitions of terms nsed la 

cooking, V. 212-230 
Delivering a speech, v. 186 
Departed friend, toast to a» 

V. 204 
Desserts, ii. 877 
Devilled crabs (No. 1)» lit 

171 

halibut, iii. 139 

lobster, iii. 170 

or stuffed eggs, iii. 887 

sausages, iii. 256 

Devil's cake, iv. 183 
Diet, essentials for outdoor 
laborer; for indoor work- 
er, iL 118 

simple, necessary for very 
young, and very old, iL 
117 

tables, for varying, iL 119 

varieties; animal, vege- 
table, and mixed, iL 106 
Digestibility of cake, of cake 
with butter, ii. 262, 868 

of cheese, ii. 73 

of different meants, iL 88 

of eggs, iL 89 

of fish, ii. 43 

of fruits, ii. 99 

of game, ii. 40 

of gruels, ii. 280 

of liquid foods, ii. 879 

of lobster, ii. 58 

of meats and fats, iL S.7 

of milk, iL 70 

of pork, ii. 31 

of toast, iL 288 
Dinner dance, i. 130 

dances, i. 153 

family meal, care to make 
attractive^ L 83 



INDEX 



TO 



Dinner, formal i. 1 

formal, announcement, by 
butler, 1. 12, 13 

formal, arrangement, 
knives, forks, etc., 1. 20 

formal, avoid " novelties "; 
simplicity desirable, i. 1 

formal, butter not served, 
i. 28 

formal, cancelling accept- 
ance, i. 8 

formal, carving at table, 1. 
28 

formal, cocktail, when 
served, i. 27 

formal, coffee and liqueurs, 
served to ladies in draw- 
ing-room, i. 72 

formal, courses, i. 15 

formal, courses how served, 
i. 16 

formal, expensive way of 
entertaining, i. 3 

formal, flnger-bowls, i. 26 

formal, flowers, ribbons, 
- etc., 1. 22, 23 

formal, guest, adieux to 
hostess, i. 74 

formal, guests, after arri- 
val, i. 12 

formal, guests, assigning 
*• partners " at large 
dinners, i. 12 

formal, guest, at table, i. 
73 

formal, guests, duties of, i. 
11 

formal, guests, duty to- 
ward the courses, i. 28 

formal, guests finding 
seats, i. 71 

formal, going in to, 1. 13 

formal, guests, punctual- 
ity, i. 72 

formal, guests, seating of, 
i. 10 

formal, guests, selection of, 
number, etc., i. 10 

formal, host and hostess, 
J duties. L 71 



Dinner, formal, host and 
hostess' duties, i. 11 

formal, introductions of 
guests by hostess, L 81 

formal, invitations and re- 
plies, i. 3 

formal, invitations, sam- 
ples, i. 6 

formal, invitations should 
not have "E. 6. V. P.," 
L 7 

formal, leaving dining^ 
room, i. 72 

formal, lights, i. 23 

formal, men take coffee 
and cigars after women 
have left table, i. 72 

formal, menu, 1. 13 

formal, menu cards unde- 
sirable, i. 22 

formal, napkin, folded 
about piece of bread, i. 
21 

formal, napkins, not re- 
folded, i. 20 

formal, name-cards on 
table, i. 22 

formal, notes, i. 28 

formal, postponed, i. 8 

formal, punctuality, 1. 12 

formal, removing orumbtt 
1. 28 

formal, replies to invita- 
tions, prompt and defi- 
nite, i. 3 

formal, reply to invitation 
addressed only to host- 
ess, i. 7 

formal, serving, i. 24 

formal, table arangements, 
i. 19 
formal, two desserts, 1. 18 

formal, waiters* duties, 1. 
25 

formal, wineglasses prop- 
erly used with each 
course: temperature of 
wines, i. 30 

formal, wine not neoessaryf 
i. 28 



INDEX 



Dinner, formal, wine, refus- 
ing, i. 28 

formal, wines, table of, and 
manner of serving, i. 30 

informal, i. 31 

informal, serving, L 31 
Doughnuts, iv. 206 

German, iv. 206 
Dramatics, L 187, 191 

general hints, i. 191 

selection of play, perform- 
ers, etc., i. 192 
Drawing poultry, ii. 35 
Drawn butter, iii. 191, 192 
Dressed endive, iv. 110 
Dressing, bread, for game, 
tii. 203 

chestnut, iii. 203 

for baked fish, iii. 190 

for salad (see also ** Salad 
dressings **) iv. 200 

potato, for duck, iii. 203 
Dried beef with eggs, iii. 225 

beef, creamed, iii. 225 

bean soup, iU. 69 
Drinks, mixing and serving, 

hints, V. 51 

(see " Beverages " and 
''Mixed drinks") 
Drop cakes, iv. 202 
Dry punch, v. Ill 
Duchess consomm^, iii. 18 

eggs, iii. 336 

sauce, iv. 311 

soup, iii. 34 
Ducks, canvas-back, broiled, 
iii. 308 

canvas-back, roasted, iii. 
308 

care of, before killing, ii. 
37 

carving, v. 26 

in jelly, iii. 312 

ruddy, roast, iii. 308 

salmi of, iii. 310 

selecting in market, ii. 37 

teal, broiled, iii. 309 

wild, ii. 38 
Duke of Norfolk punch, t. 
100 



Ears, pigB\ baked, iii. 252 
Economy, true, in haying 

jn^^fsj^ ii. 22 

Edible snails, iiL 180 
Eel soup, iii. 95 
Eels, baked, iii. 150 

braised, royal style, ilL 151 

fried, iii 150 
Eggs and spinach, iii. 339 

au buerre noire, ilL 266 

bacon and, iii. 266 

baked, ii. 91 

baked, and bacon, iii. 336 

baked, and tcmtatoes. It* 
104 

boiled, iii. 333 

curried, iii. 340 

devilled or stuffed, iii. 337 

digestibility of, ii. 89 

dried beef with, iU. 225 

dropped, ii. 90 

duchesse, iii. 336 

floating island, ii. 93 

for invalid, iv. 265 

fried, ii. 91; iii. 335 

fried ham, with, iii. 267 

nutritive value, analysis, ii. 
88 

omelets, plain, foamy, 
meat, baked meat, ii. 92, 
93 

poached, ii. 91; iiL 334 

recipes, how to cook in 
water, ii. 89 

riced, ii. 94 

scallops and, iii. 178 

scrambled, ii. 90; iiL 335 

shirred, iii. 340 

stuffed with anchovies, iiL 
338 

to test freshness, iii. 333 

Venetian, v. 2 

with cheese, iii. 336 

with tomatoes, iiL 338 
Egg balls, iiL 48 

lemonade, v. 39 

muffins, iv. 145 
Eggnogg, iL 288 

several kinds, v. 74, 7S 
^g'pieait, baked, ir. 59 



INDEX 



249 



Egg'-plant, fried, recipe, ii. 172 
fried, !▼. 59 
puffs or fritters, iv. 59 
stuffed with nuts, iv. 59 
Egg sandwich, iv. 152 
sauce, iii. 190 
soup, ii. 144; iU. 87 
sour, ▼. 72 
wine, iv. 264 
El Dorado punch, ▼. 94 
Elderberry wine, v. 44 
Electric cake, iv. 190 
Endive, dressed, iv. 110 
Engaged to be married, i. 230 
to be married, attentions 
to woman, i. 231 
Engagements, announced by 
the bride-to-be, i. 232 
calling after announce- 
ment, i. 233 
congratulations, how ac- 
cepted, i. 235 
congratulations on an- 
nouncements, i. 234 
demeanor of engaged per- 
sons, i. 240 
entertainments given in 
honor of engaged couple, 
i. 234 
gifts from engaged man to 

fiancee, 1. 241 
length of, i. 236 
man should promptly in- 
terview fianc6e*s parents, 
i. 232 
ring, i. 238 

sending a tea-cup to bride- 
elect, i. 234 
English beef soup, iii. 21 

walnut cake, iv. 184 
Entr^s, beef tongue fillets, 
saut^ed, iii. 329 
chicken timbales, iii. 331 
lobster croustades, iii. 332 
served at dinner, i. 17 
sheep's tongue in aspic, iii. 

327 
stewed ox kidney, iii. 327 
Epigrammes, lamb, with as- 
paragus tips, iiL 248 



Escalloped cauliflower, iv. 69 
corn, iv. 52 
mushrooms, iv. 36 
Espagnole sauce, iii. 196 

Fagadu bradu, iv. 86 
Paivre's pousse caf6, v. 69 
Family soup, iii. 69 
Farina blocks (German), iii. 

105 
Farmer's chowder, iii. 74 
Farcied or stuffed roast beef, 

ui. 213 
Fats, ii. 10 
digestibiUty of, ii. 18 
for frying and future use, 

ii. 166, 169 
uses and values of, ii. 24 
Feet, pigs', boiled, iii. 252 
pigs% stuffed & la P6ri- 
gueux, iii. 253 
F§te champ^tre (see "Gar- 
den Parties "), i. 204 
Fig pudding, frozen, iv. 324 
Filee, gumbo, soup, iii. 32 
Fillet of beef, braised, iiL 

233 
Fillets, codfish, HoUandaise, 

iii. 123 
Fillet of fiounders, iii. 148 

of mutton, braised, iii. 241 
Filleted sole (& I'ltalienne), 

iii. 159 
Filling, cream, iv. 198 
chocolate cream, iv. 198 
chocolate, iv. 198 
cocoanut, iv. 198 
caramel, for cake, iv. 199 
Fingerbowls, i. 26 

use of, i. 66 
Finnan haddie, v. 12 
d, la Delmonico, iii. 149 
broiled, iii. 150 
Fire, making, ii. 131 
when to use hot, and wheni 
" slow," in cooking 
meats, ii. 24 
Fish, iii. 108 
d, la crdme, iii. 110 
& la Paris, ilL 115 



INDEX 



JTish, American, ii. 65 
analysis of, ii. 42 
anchoviea, Hi. 160; iv. 260 
baked, ii. 48, 60, 187 
baked babs "with shrimp 

sauce, iii. 164 
baked carp, iii. 166 
baked cod's head, iii. 120 
baked creamed codfish, iiL 

118 
baked eels, iii. 160 
baked fresh mackerel with 

oyster dressing, ill. 131 
baked halibut with lob- 
ster sauce, iii. 138 
baked pickerel, iii. 164 
baked red snapper, iii. 155 
baked salmon-trout, iiL 142 
baked shad, iii. 132 
baked smelts, iii. 146 
baked staffing for, ii. 60 
Beauregard cod^ iii. 121 
Biscayan cod, ilL 110 
blueflsh, ii. 67 
bluefish (baked), iii. 116 
blueflsh (broiled), iii. 115 
boiled, ii. 61 
boiled black bass, with 

cream gravy, iii. 153 
boiled fresh codfish, iii. 122 
boiled halibut, iii. 138 
boiled mackerel ((German 

method), iii. 180 
boiled red snapper, iii. 155 
boiled salmon. Mi. 141 
boiled salmon-trout, iiL 143 
boiling, IL 44 
boned baked pickerel, iii. 

165 
broiled, ii. 59 
broiled bloaters, iU. 156 
broiled finnaa-haddie, iii. 

150 
broiled halibut, iii. 189 
broiled mackerel, iii. 129 
broiled aalt cod, iiL 120 
broiled shad, iii. 134 
broiled smoked salmon^ ilL 

144 
broiling^ iL iO 



Fish— brook trout, ii. 57 
brook trout, broiled, iiL 163 
cakes, iii. 110 
casserole of, iii. 113 
carp, ii. 49 
catfish, ii. 57 
cheese and halibut scallop^ 

iii. 141 
chowder, ii. 63; iiL 89 
cleaning, iL 44 
cod, ii. 55 

cod H la Bechamel, iiL 118 
codfish ft la bonne femme^ 

iii. 124 
codfish cakes, iii. 123 
codfish fillets, Hollandaiae. 

iii. 123 
codfish hash, iiL 124 
codfish in cream sanoa, IiL 

124 

codfish, maitre dlidtel IiL 

123 
codfish sonffl6, ilL 127 
codfish with macaroni, iii. 

125 
codfish tongues, fried, iiL 

129 

cod tongaea, ponlette, ilL 
129 

cod tonimet with black 
butter sauce, ill. 129 

cod tongues with egg 
sauce. III. 128 

coqoillea of (No. 1), IIL 109 

crayfish in Jelly, iiL 158 

creamed, ii. 62 

creamed lobater cm toasts 
iii. 170 

creamed salt oodfiih, ilL 

121 

creamed ahad. Hi. 138 
creamed ahad-roa with 

muahrooma. iii. 186 
croquettea, iii. 112 
curry of salmon, iiL 148 
cutlets, iU. 112 
devilled, ii. 53 
devilled halibut, ilL 139 
dcYilled lobster, ilL 170 
digaatiblUtif of , iL 48 



INDEX 



251 



Flsh--eel8, ii. 57 

eels braised, royal Style, 

ill. 151 
egg sauce, ii« 01 
en matelote, ill. 114 
fillet, ii. 47 
finnan haddie ft la Del- 

monico, ill. 149 
flounder, ii. 56 
flounders au gratin, iii, 148 
flounders, fillet of, iii. 148 
flounders, fried (English), 

iii. 148 
fricassee, ii. 47 
(shell) fricasseed snapping 

turtle, iii. 168 
fried catfish, iii. 164 
fried eels, ill. 150 
fried shad-roe, iii. 134 
fried smelts, iii. 147 
(shell) fried soft-shell 

crabs, iii. 171 
frying, 11. 46 
haddock, ii. 55 
haddock, boiled, with egg 

sauce, iii. 161 
halibut, ti. 55 

halibut ft la Cr6ole, iii. 139 
halibut baked with milk, 

iii. 137 
halibut steak ft la Fla- 

mande, iii. 140 
halibut steak baked With 

tomatoes, iii. 140 
herring, ii. 57 
herrings marinaded, iii. 158 
ice oream, iv. 325 
kingfish, ii. 57 
less nourishing than meat, 

ii. 43 

lobster, Ui. 169 

lobster ft la Newburg, iii. 
169 

lobster, prawns, and cray- 
flsh, ii. 58 

lobster, stewed in cream, 
iii. 169 

mackerel broiled, and tar- 
ragon butter, iii. 130 

aacketel oartach, ilL IBl 



Fish— matelote of oodflsh, ill. 

126 
mullet, ii. 57 
oysters (see ** Shellflsh '*) 
perch fried, iii. 164 
pickled salmon, iii. 144 
pike, baked in sour cream, 

(German), iii. 162 
planked, ii. 52 
planked shad, ill. 184 
plate, iii. 113 
pompano. ii. 57 
porgies, ii. 57 
red snapper, ii. 57 
relishes, ]▼. 250 
rissoles of, iii. 114 
roasting, ii. 50 
roe croquettes, iii. 136 
salmon, ii. 56 
salmon mayonnaise, Hi. 14« 
salmon on toast, iii. 145 
salmon pie, iii. 145 
salt codfish balls, iii. 12& 
salt cod tidbit, iii. 128 
salt flsh-balls, ii. 62 
salted, ii. 55 
salted cod with brown but> 

ter, iii. 119 
sandwich, iv. 155 
sardine fritters (German). 

iii. 156 
sauce, ii. 49 
sauce: " Drawn Butter,*' ii. 

61 
scalloped. Hi. ill 
scalloped shad-roe, iii. 136 
scallop of salmon, ill. 146 
scallops and eggs, ill. 172 
sea-bass, ii. 57 
seasons of year for, ii. 55, 

etc. 
selecting, ii. 44, 180 
serving, i. 17 
shad, Ii. 56 

shad, planked, iii. 134 
sheep's head, ii. 57 
sheep's head ft la Crflole, 

iii. 157 

sole, filleted (ft lltalienne), 

iii. 159 



252 



INDEX 



Fi8h-H90up, iii. 95 
Spanish mackerel, ii. 57 
steaming, ii. 45 
steamed red snapper, iii. 

154 
stewed codfish, iii. 127 
terrapin stewed, iii. 167 
stuffed sea bass, iii. 152 
stuffed smelts, iii. 147 
sturgeon, ii. 58; iii. 166 
turbot ft la cr^me, iii. 151 
turbot fillet, iii. 152 
weakfish,' ii. 57 
white bait, dressed, iii. 161 
whitefish, ii. 57 
whiting aux fines herbes 

(English), Ui. 163 
with mashed potatoes, iii. 

Ill 
Fish (sheU) 

baked crabs, iii. 171 
baked soft clams, iii. 179 
boiled soft-shell crabs, iii. 

170 
broiled oysters, in the 

shell, or on the half shell, 

iii. 175 
broiled oysters on toast, iii. 

176 
clam fritters, iii. 179 
creamed oysters, iii. 174 
devilled crabs (No. 1), iii. 

171 
fried oysters, iii. 176 
jumbolaya (East Indian 

recipe), iii. 180 
Old Virginia fried oysters, 

iii. 177 
oysters and mushrooms, iii. 

177 
oysters on the half shell, 

iii. 173 
oysters " roasted " in their 

own liquor, iii. 179 
pigs in blankets, iii. 180 
scalloped oysters, iii. 178 
stewed oysters, iii. 174 
shrimps, iii. 172 
shrimps and mushroom, iiL 

173 



Fish — smoked and cured, ii. 
54 
snails, edible, iii. 180 
Fisherman's (French) chow- 
der, iii. 92 
Fix, brandy, gin, rum, or 

whiskey, y. 65, 66 
Flannel cakes, iv. 171 
Fleisch, minuten, iii. 281 
Flemish soup, iii. 68 
Floating island, ii. 93 
Flounders au gratin, iiL 148 

fillet of, iii. 148 
Flour, ii. 96 
best for bread, ii. 229 
test of purity, adulterants, 
ii. 230 
Foaming sauce, iv. 311 
Food and its value; impor- 
tance of correct under- 
standing, ii. 4 
effect of boiling, on ele- 
ments of, ii. 151 
number and value of 

works on subject, ii. 1 
supplies heat to body 
and repairs the system, 
U. 5» 6 
classes of, derived from 
plants and animals, iL 
6 
compound, ii. 14 
liquid, ii. 279 
of animal origin, classified, 

ii. 14 
of vegetable origin; how 
differing from foods of 
animal origin, ii. 95 
simple, ii. 9 

(simple) albumen; type, 
where found; coagular 
tion, ii. 9, 10 
(simple) fats, ii. 10 
(simple) salt and mineral 
matter; represented by 
table salt; other salts; 
necessity of, ii. 12 
simple and compound, 

classified, ii. 6, 7 
(simple) starches and 



INDEX 



253 



sugars; where found, 
etc., ii. 11 
table of comparatiye val- 
ues, animal and vege- 
table foods, ii. 103 
to be fried, ii. 169 
types and character of, as 
determined by chemical 
analysis, ii. 7, 8 
types to be combined in 
arranging proper diet, 
ii. 8 
Force-meat balls, iii. 105 
Foreign names of meats, 
fruits, and vegetables, v. 
209-211 
terms on menu, v. 208 
Form of invitation to balls, 
dances, etc., 1. 128, 130, 
131, etc. 
of invitation to reception, 

L 177 
of invitation to special 
varieties of balls, i. 135 
of invitation to theatre 
party, i. 201 
of invitation to visit, i. 210 
of letter of introduction, 

i. 85 
of reply to invitation to 

ball, 1. 138 
of speeches and toasts, 
after-dinner, etc., v. 188- 
207 
of visiting cards, i. 88, 93 
Formal response to "The 

Ladies," v. 192 
Fortune cake, iv. 191 
Four-fruit liquor, v, 57 
Fowl, kuwab, iii. 305 

pie, iii. 228 
Frangipane, iv. 304 
Frankfurt sausages, iii. 257 
French beans, E la maStre 

dlidtel, iv. 41 
French fisherman's chowder, 
iii. 92 
ice cream, iv. 319 
soup, iii. 69 
tomatoes, iv. 106 



Fricadelles of veal, iii. 272 
Fricandeau of beef, iii. 236 
Fricassee, ii. 162 

chicken, ii. 164; iii. 299 

process, ii. 154 

veal, ii. 164; iii. 276 
Fricasseed asparagus, iv. 65 

beans, iv. 44 

Jerusalem artichokes, iv. 
67 

snapping turtle, iii. 168 
Fried cakes, iv. 207 

catfish, iii. 164 

chicken, iii. 296 

cod tongues, iii. 129 

com, iv. 55 

eels, iii. 150 

eggs, iii. 335 

egg-plant, recipe, ii. 172 

egg-plant, iv. 59 

green tomatoes, iv. 104 

ham, recipe, ii. 173 

ham and eggs, ii. 173; iii. 
267 

hominy, iv. 130 

Indian mush, ii. 172 

lamb chops, with Par- 
mesan, iii. 249 

liver (English), iii. 234 

mush, recipe, ii. 172 

oysters, Old Virginia, iii. 
177 

oyster plant, iv. 32 

parsnips, iv. 40 

perch, iii. 164 

por\ chops, iii. 260 

potatoes, recipe, ii. 171 

sausages, recipe, ii. 172 

scrapple and Indian mush, 
ii. 172 

shad-roe, iii. 134 

smelts, iii. 147 

soft-shell crabs, Iii. 171 

sweetbreads, iii. 289 

tomatoes, recipe, ii. 171 

tomatoes, iv. 103 

turnips, iv. 108 
Friend, toast to a, v. 203 
Friendship, toast to, v. 203 
Fritters, u. 196; iv. 161 



254 



INDEX 



Fritters, apple, !▼. 163 
beef, iii. 235 
clam, iii. 179; !▼. 163 
corn, iv. 53, 165 
egg-plant, iv. 50 
fish and meat, Iv. 163 
mutkmelon, iv. 110 
oyBter, iv. 162 
peaoh, iv. 165 
pineapple, iv. 164 
puff-ball, iv. 165 
sardines (German), iii. 156 
vegetable, iv. 165 
Progs' legs, iii. 173 
legs, fried, iii. 173 
Frosting for cake, ii. 270 
Fruits: 
apple butter, American, Iv. 

128 
apple sauee, iv. 124 
apples, baked, iv. 121 
apples, baked, for chil- 
dren, It. 122 
apples in pastry, iv. 124 
apples, stewed, iv. 123 
apples stewed in whiskey, 

fv. 122 
cherries (raw), iv. 120 
compdte of fruit, iv. 128 
foreign names of, v. 200- 

211 
fruit cocktail, iv. 118 
fruit crown, iv. 121 
fruit cups, iv. 118 
fruit parfait, iv. 119 
fruit pudding, iv. 118 
gooseberry souffle, iv. 126 
gooseberrv tart, iv. 125 
grape pudding, iv. 128 
grape timbale, iv. 118 
grapes in Jelly, iv. 128 
iced fruits for dessert, Iv. 

117 
jellied fruit, iv. 110 
melons (musk and eante- 

loupe), iv. 127 
mushroom melon, iv. 121 
muskmelon fritters, iv. 119 
oranges, how to serve, iv. 

126 



Fruits — spears, imperialyir. 117 
pineapples, iv. 120 
sea-urchins, iv. 120 
■tewed prunes, iv. 128 
stewed rhubarb, iv. 125 
strawberry croquettes, Iv. 

120 
strawberry oups, iv. 120 
vegetarian fruit course, iv. 

120 
Fruit cake, iv. 186 
cake, dark, iv. 194 
composition of; effeot of 

cooking on dried fruits, 

ii. 00 
digestibility when raw 

and when cooked, ii. 90 
cream, iv. 323 
mousse, iv. 326 
omelet, iii. 344 
soup, iii. 103 
Fry, Lamb's, iii. 248 
Frying, chief foods for, Ii. 

169 
process of, ii. 166 
rapid method of cooklng'i 

ii. 169 
■aut^ing, ii. 170 
time table, ii. 297 
Frijole soup, iii. 85 

Game, ii. 33 
aspic game or poultry, iii. 

324 
Belgian hare, stuffed and 

roasted, iii. 816 
canvas-back ducks, broiled, 

iii. 308 
canvas-back dueka, roasted. 

iii. 308 
carving, v. 24, 37 
digestibility of, ii. 40 
duck in Jelly, iii. 813 
soup, iii. 90 
German hasenpfeffer, iiL 

815 
grouse, roast, iii. 331 
hanging of, ii. 30 
hare or rabbit (German 

hasenpfeffer), iii. 815 



INDEX 



2S5 



Game — ^hare or rabbit, 
braised, iii. 314 
partridges, baked, iii. dl6 
pheasant, broiled, iii. 319 
pigeons, stuffed and 
roasted (German 
method), iii. 318 
ploTers, roasted, iii. 317 
pat6 of foies gras, iii. 318 
quails, roast, iii. 319 
quails, trussing of, iii. 319 
rabbit or hare (German 

hasenpfeifer), iii. 315 
rabbit or hare, braised, iii. 

314 
roast ruddy duoks, iii. 309 
roast teal, iii. 310 
salmi of duck, iii. 310 
snipes, cooked (German 

fashion), iii. 320 
teal ducks, broiled, iii. 809 
▼enison, roast (German 

recipe), iii. 321 
Tenison steaks, broiled, ill. 

321 
woodcock, roast, iii. 822 
garden parties, i. 204 
parties, entertainments, 

provided, 1. 206 
parties, invitations and re* 

plies, i. 204 
parties^ refreshments, i. 
206 
Garnishing, ii. 300 
Geese, ii. 38 

Geneva griddle cakes, Iv. 169 
"German** (or cotillion), L 

157 
German farina blocks, iii. 105 

pancakes, iv. 175 
Gherkins, pickled^ iv. 256 
Giblets, ii, 37 
Giblet pie, iii. 294 

soup, iii. 22 
Gin, V. 174 
and pine, v. 122 
and tansy, v. 122 
and wormwood, v. 122 
cocktail, T. 54 
cocktail, improved, v. 64 



Gin crusta, v. 61 

daisy, V. 62 

^ V. 65 

fizz, V. 76 

flip (hot or cold), ▼. 82 

punch, V. 90 

sangaree, v. 86 

sling (hot and cold)i v. 77 
Ginger beer, v. 37, 88 
Gingerbread, ii. 270; iv. 200 

colonial, iv. 200 

soft, iv. 200 

sour milk, iv. 200 
Ginger cordial, v. 40 

snaps, iv. 203 

julep, V. 64 

rickey, v. 57 

smash, v. 65 

sour, V. 71 

toddy, cold or hot, v. 73 
Glace Napolitain, iv. 819 
Glasses, used with Varieties 

of wine, 1* 80 
Glazsed nuts, v. 16 
Glossary: terms used in 

cooking, V. 212*230 
Gold cake, Iv. 190 
Golden fi^s, v. 77 

sauce, iv. 312 

wedding, speech, v. 194 

wedding (toast), v. 207 
Goose, ii. 38 

in jelly, iii. 312 

roast, iii. 311 
Gooseberry pie, iv. 278 

pudding, iv. 283 

souffle, iv. 120 

tart, iv. 125 
Gothic punch, v. 110 
Grahavi bread, iv. 134 

gems, iv. 146 

griddle cakes, iv. 168 

muffins, iv. 144 

pudding, steamed, iv. 288 

rolls, iv. 141 
Grape juice, v. 49 

pudding, iv. 128 

sauce, iv. 270 

timbale, iv. 118 

wine, V. 48 



256 



INDEX 



Grapes in jelly, iv. 128 
Gravies and sauces, ii. 146 

thickening* for, ii. 147 
Gravy for roasts, ii. 192 
Grecque, soup d. la, iii. 44 
Green com, broiled, iv. 56 

com omelet, iii. 342 

com souffle, iv. 53 

peas, iv. 49 

peas ft la cr^me, iv. 50 

pea pur6e, iii. 59 

peas, soup, cream of, iii. 51 

peas, stewed, iv. 49 

peas, to boil, iv. 48 

tomato sweet pickles, iv. 
258 

tomatoes, fried, iv. 104 
Griddle cakes, ii. 198; iv. 167 

cakes with eggs, iv. 168 
Grilled tomatoes, iv. 100 
Grouse, roast, iii. 321 
Gmel, ii. 280-288 

barley, iv. 259 

oatmeal, wheatena, \L 285 

water, iv. 268 
Gruetz, iv. 283 
Guinea fowl, ii. 39 
Gumbo, chicken, iii. 30 

chicken, with oysters, iii. 
31 

fil^e soup, iii. Z*) 

oyster, iii. 31 

(shrimp), iU. 97 

Haddock, boiled, with egg 

sauce, iii. 161 
Half and half, v. 118 
Halibut ft la Creole, iii. 139 
baked, with lobster sauce, 

iii. 138 
baked with milk, iii. 137 
bisque of, iii. 53 
boiled, iii. 138 
broiled, iii. 139 
devilled, iii. 139 
scallop, cheese and, iii. 141 
steak ft la Flamande, iii. 

140 
steak, baked with toma- 
toes, iiL 140 



Ham, ii. 31 

and eggs, recipe, ii. 173 

broiled, iii. 266 

fried, vdth eggs, Ui. 267 

fried, recipe, ii. 173 

omelet, iii. 342 

roasted, iii. 267 
Hamburg steak, iii. 207 
Hard-pea soup, iii. 70 
Hard sauce, ii. 149; iv. 

312 
Hare, Belgian, ii. 40 

Belgian, stuffed and 
roasted, iii. 316 

or rabbit (German Hasen- 
pfeffer), iii. 315 

or rabbit braised, iii. 314 
Haricot beans (lima beans) 
ft la maitre dlidtel, iv. 
42 

beans with onions, iv. 43 

defined, ii. 161 

mutton, iii. 242 
Harlequin sandwich, iv. 154 
Hash, beef, iii. 218 

codfish, iii. 124 
Hasenpfeffer (German), liL 

315 
Hasty soup, iii. 23 
Head, calf*s, baked, iii. 275 

cheese, iii. 264 

of the house; which is it? 
ii. 301 
Heart, beef's, boiled, iii. 232 

calf's, baked, iii. 330 

calf's, stuffed, iii. 329 
Hebe's cup, v. 58 
Heidelberg punch, y. 58 
Herbs with parmesan, soup 

of, iii. 67 
Herrings, marinaded, iii. 158 
Hickory nut cake, iv. 184 

nut candy, iv. 336 
High ball, v. 57 
Hock cobbler, v, 67 
Hoe-cake, iv. 177 
Hollandaise sauce, iiL 186 
Home chats, ii. 301 

elegance, ii. 319 

life, u. 316 



INDEX 



257 



Home life, liTing in a "rush," 

ii. 318 
Hominy, breakfast, boiled, 
iv. 130 
croquettes, iv. 131 
fried, iv. 130 
griddle cakes, iv. 172 
muffins, iv. 144 
Honeycomb cream, iv. 305 
Honigkuchen, iv. 197 
Hors d'oBuvres, ii. 102 
Horseradish, iv. 95 
sauce, iv. 95 
sauce (hot), iii. 192 
Horse's neck, v. 40 
Hot brandy and rum punch, 
V. 100 
pot, beef, iii. 231 
rum, V. 78 
spiced rum, ▼. 78 
Hotchpotch, Scotch, iii. 65 
Hot English flip (rum or 
ale), V. 114 
Scotch, V. 60 
Housekeeping hints, ii. 313 
Housekeper, plan each day, 
ii. 312 
suggestions to, ii. 332 
House parties, entertain- 
ment, i. 215 
parties, formal, i. 214 
parties, free time for 

guests, i. 216 
parties, guest chamber, 1. 

217 
parties. (See ''Visiting,'* 
i. 209) 
Huckleberry cake, iv. 189 
griddle cakes, iv. 169 
pudding, iv. 290 
shortcake, iv. 178 
Hulled corn soup, iii. 42 
Husbands, ii. 301 
Hygienic cream sauce, iv. 312 

Ice cream, how frozen, ii. 281 
recipes, ii. 288 
apricot, iv. 316 
baked Alaska, iv. 322 
biscuit, iv. 324 



Ice cream — ^biscuit glac€, iv. 
326 
biscuit tortoni, iv. 928 
Bohemian, iv. 318 
brovm bread, iv. 321 
caramel, iv. 322 
chocolate, iv. 317 
chocolate mouss6, iv. 325 
coffee, iv. 317 * 

fish, iv. 325 
French, iv. 319 
fruit, iv. 323 
fruit mouss6, iv. 326 
glac6 Napolitain, iv. 318 
mask, iv. 322 
Italian, iv. 324 
lemon, iv. 316 
melon, iv. 325 
MilaneEte, iv. 318 
mille fruit, iv. 316 
pistachio, iv. 320 
surprise melon, iv. 326 
vanilla, iv. 317 
vanilla parfait, iv. 323 

Ices, almond and orange, iv. 
3'*9 
lemon, iv. 330 
lemon sherbet, iv. 327 
milk sherbet, iv. 327 
punch Lalla Rookh, iv. 332 
orange she bet, iv. 327 
Roman punch, iced, iv. 331 
sorbet of Kirchwasser, iv. 

331 
sorbet of rum, iv. 332 
strawberry sherbet, iv. 320 
water, iv. 238 

Ice, lemon, ii. 284 

Iced coffee, v. 30 

Icing, boiled, iv. 199 
Charlotte fruit, iv. 305 
chocolate water, iv. 199 
maple sugar frosting, iv. 

199 
marshmallow frosting, iv. 
199 

Imperial arrack punch, v. 104 
brandy punch, v. 101 
punch, V. 101 

Indian sauce, iii. 187 



258 



INDEX 



Indian griddle cakes, !▼. 170 

mush, fried, ii. 172 

burdwan, ill. 300 

chutney, iv. 854 

meal puddingrt boiled, iv. 
281 
Inexpensive sonp, iii. 23 
Information, miscellaneouB, 

ii. 292 
Ink-stains, removed by salt, 

ii. 338 
Introductions, i. 70 

at dance, 1. 145 

by chaperon at dance, i. 
82 

by hostess may not be re- 
fused, i. 80 

by letter, i. 84 

duty of hosteaa at various 
entertainments, i. 81 

by letter, obligation im- 
posed, 1. 87 

by letter presenting, i. 80 

by letter receiving, I. 80 

how acknovi^ledged, i. 78 

time for, i. 81 

when not to make, i. 83 
Invalid, cookery for, ii. 279 

cookery, iv. 259 

cookery, apple water, iv. 
259 

cookery, arrowroot Jelly, iv. 
200 

cookery, barley gruel, iv. 
259 

cookery, barley water, iv. 
259 

cookery, beef, mutton, and 
veal broth, iv. 260 

cookery, beef tea, iv. 260 

cookery, bread pudding, 
light, iv. 261 

cookery, broth, beef, mut- 
ton, and veal, iv. 260 

cookery, broth, calves* feet, 
iv. 262 

cookery, broth, chicken, iv. 
263 

cookery broth clear, iv. 
261 



Invalid cookery, broth, mut' 

ton, iv. 266 
eookery, broth, veal, iv. S^OO 
cookery, broths, white with 

vermicelli, iv. 208 
cookery, calves' feet broth, 

iv. 268 
cookery, calves* feet Jelly, 

iv. 268 
cookery, chicken broth, ir. 

263 
cookery, chicken, mineed, 

iv. 263 
cookery, chicken, with 

sauce, iv. 863 
cookery, chicken with sip- 
pets, iv. 264 
cookery, eggs, iv. 805 
cookery, egg wine, iv. 804 
cookery, gruel water, iv. 

808 
cookery, Italian paste, iv. 

268 
cookery. Jelly, calves* feet, 

iv. 202 
cookery, meat Jelly, iv. 805 
cookery. Jelly, orange, iv. 

260 
cookery. Jelly, tapioca, iv« 

267 
cookery, macaroni with 

broth, iv. 265 
cookery, meat jelly, iv. 265 
cookery, mutton broth, iv. 

266 
cookery, orange jelly, iv. 

266 
cookery, panada, iv. 807 
cookery, ri6e, iv. 868 
cookery, sponge-cake pud- 
ding, iv. 267 
cookery, tapioca Jelly, iv. 

267 
cookery, veal broth, iv. 800 
cookery, vermicelli, iv. 268 
cookery water gmel, iv. 

268 
cookery, whey, iv. 208 
cookery, white broths with 

vermicelli, iv. 268 



INDBX 



259 



Invalids, milk and food for; 

ice cream, ii. 281 
Invitations, for ball, may be 

written, i. 129 
forms of, to ball, and 

cotillion, i. 128, 130 
in writing, i. SOO 
mailed, sometimes, 1. 120 
to bal poudr6, fancy dress, 

costnme, charity ball, 

ttc, i. 135 
to balls, replies to, 1. 137 
to breakfast, i. 50 
to dinner dance, i. 131 
to formal dinner, forms, 1. 

6 
to garden parties, i. 204 
to luncheon, and replies, 1. 

36 
to musieales, i. 190 
to receptions, 1. 177 
to theatre parties, i. 200 
to visit, i. 210 
when accompanied by 

visiting-card, i. 105 
Irish moss blancmange, il. 

290 
moss Jelly, ii. 283 
sandwich, iv. 160 
sonp, or Balnamoon skink, 

iii. 32 
Italian steak, iii. 286 
Irish stew, iii. 224 
Italian macaroons, iv. 208 
paste, iv. 268 
sandwiches, iv. 150 

Jam, iv. 273 

home made, ii. 278 

sandwich, iv. 168 
Japanese cocktail, v. 56 
Jellies: lemon, orange, etc., 

ii. 283 
Jellied fruit, iv. 119 
Jellies, iv. 270 
Jelly, arrowroot, iv. 860 

aspic, iv. 268 

cake, iv. 191 

calves' feet, Iv. 262 

grape sauce, iv. 270 



Jelly, meat, iv. 265 
orange, iv. 266 
strawberry, iv. 270 
tapioca, iv. 267 
Jellyfish cream, iv. 310 
Jenny Lind*s soup, iii. 41 
•'Jerry Thomas'" own de- 
canter bitters, V. 121 
Jersey cocktail, ▼. 55 
sour, V, 71 
Jerusalem artichokes, fricas- 
seed, iv. 67 
artichokes, pur4e of, Iv. 68 
artichokes, stewed, iv. 66 
Jewish almond pudding, iv. 
293 
sausage, or chorissa, iii. 237 
Johnny cake, or Journey 

cake, iv. 176 
Juleps, mint, gin, whiskey, 

or pineapple, v. 62, 64 
Julienne soup, ii. 142; Iii. 23 

soup, Russian, iii. 22 
Jumbles, almond, iv. 203 

peanut, iv. 204 
Jumbolaya (East Indian 

recipe), iii. 180 
June tea punch, v. 82 
Junket, ii. 291; iv. 808 

Kale brose, ill. 88 

Scotch, Iv. 79 
Kebobbed mutton, iii. 248 
Kidney beans, iv. 45 

ox, stewed, iii. 827 
Kitchen arrangements, Ii. 308 

utensils, ii. 310 
Klosse (Uver), for soup, lil. 

106 
Knickerbocker, v. 67 
Koumiss, V. 33 
Kuwab fowl, iii. 305 

Lady fingers, iv. 201 
Lamb, ii. 27 
ballotin of, with green 

peas, iii. 246 
blanquette of, Iii. 245 
breast of, roasted ft la 
Milanese, iii. 245 



INDEX 



Lamb brochettes, iii. 247 

buying in market, ii. 128 

chops, broiled, iii. 249 

French chops, ii. 30 

chops, fried, with Parme- 
san, iii. 249 

chops with champagfne 
sauce, iii. 247 

6pigramme« with aspara- 
^s tips, iii. 248 
Lamb's fry, iii. 248 
Lamb, how divided by 
butcher, ii. 129 

minced, with ' poached 
eggs, iii. 250 

roast, time for, ii. 192 

spring, ii. 29 
La Patria punch, ▼. 102 
Larded sweetbreads, & la 

financi^re, iii. 290 
Larding, ii. 202 
Laundry arrangements, il. 

308 
Lebkuchen, iv. 205 
Leeks, iv. 93 

how to boil, iv. 94 

soup, iii. 40 
Left-over sorp, iii. 22 
Leg of lamb, roasted, iii. 244 

of mutton, boiled, iii. 239 

of mutton stuffed, iii. 238 

of pork, stuffed and roast- 
ed, iii. 261 
Leguminous plants, ii. 100 
Lemon and peppermint 
drops, iv. 334 

cake, iv. 191 

cheese cake, iv. 197 

ice, iv. 330 

ice cream, iv. 316 

jelly, ii. 282 

pie, iv. 280 

puff, iv. 308 

sauce, ii. 149 

sauce for puddings, iv. 313 

sherbet, iv. 327 

souffle, iv. 295 

whip, iv. 308 
Lemonade, ii. 284 

egg, V. 39 



Lemonade for parties, ▼. 39 

orgeat, v. 39 

plcdn, v. 38 

seltzer, v. 39 

soda, V. 38 
Lentil soup, iii. 86 
Lentils, curried, iv. 46 
Letter-writing (see ** Corre- 
spondence '*) 
Letters of introduction (see 
"Introduction by Let-' 
ter," i. 84) 
Lettuce soup, iii. 67 

soup, cream of, iii. 50 

stewed, iv. 109 

stuffed, iv. 110 
Light Guard punch, ▼. 102 
Liqueurs and bitters, v. 172 
Lima beans k la poulette, iv. 
43 

beans (haricot beans), H la 
maftre dlidtel, iv. 42 

bean purge, iii. 60 
Limeade, v. 35 
Liquid foods, ii. 279 
Liver, calf's, and bacon, ii\. 
265; iii. 279 

calf's broiled, iii. 278 

calf's, and onions, saut§, 
iii. 279 

fned (English), iii. 234 

klosse (for soup), iii. 106 

sausages, Mecklenburg, iii. 
255 
Loaf, veal, iii. 277 
Lobster, ii. 58; iii. 169 

& la Newburg, v. 5; iiL 169 

bisque of, iii. 55 

coral sauce, iv. 235 

creamed, v. 5 

creamed, on toast, iiL 170 

croustades, iii. 332 

devilled, iii. 170 

sauce, iii. 185, 188 

stewed in cream, iii. 169 
Locomotive, v. 115 
Loin of mutton, roasted, iiL 
243 

of pork, roast, iii. 263 
Lovers, toast to, v. 200 



INDEK 



26f 



Ltmcheon delicacy, chicken 
salad rolls, iv. 243 
fonnal, costume, 1. 39 
formal, going into dining- 
room, i. 39 
formal, hour, i. 37 
formal, invitations and re- 
plies, i. 36 
formal, menu, i. 38 
formal, name-cards, i. 39 
formal, occasions for giv- 
ing, i. 36 
formal, ** pink lunch- 
eons,'' etc., i. 39 
formal, serving, i. 37 
formal, table, lights, etc., 

1. 37 
informal, i. 41 
Macaroni, iv. 21 
baked, iv. 26 

boiled, & ritalienne, iv. 24 
croquettes, iv. 22 
nudels, iv. 26 
soum^, iv. 22 
timbcles, iv. 23 
with chestnuts, iv. 25 
with broth (invalid), iv. 

265 
with tomatoes, iv. 23 
and tomato soup, quickly 
made, iii. 45 
Macaroons, iv. 202 
Macedoine soup, iii. 35 
Mackerel, baked fresh, with 
oyster dressing, iii. 131 
baked salt, ii. 187 
boiled (German method), 

iii. 130 
broiled, iii. 129 
broiled, and tarragon but- 
ter, iii. 130 
caveach, iii. 131 
Madeira sauce, iii. 195, 324 
wines of Portugal, v. 152 
Maids, hints to, ii. 324 
Maitre d'hotel butter, iii. 195 
Mamie Taylor, v. 57 
Mangoes, cucumber, iv. 79 

stuffed, iv. 255 
Manhattan cocktail, v. 54 



Manners at table (see " Table 
Manners ") 

roughness in, ii. 322 
Man's natural history, ac- 
cording to the club- 
woman, V. 263 
Maple sugar caramel, iv. 337 
Maraschino punch, v. 97 
Marbled cake, iv. 185 
Marinaded herrings, iii. 158 
Marketing, ii. 125 

beef, ii. 26 

buying mutton and lamb, 
ii. 27 

how to select meat, etc., ii. 
23 

poultry, ii. 34 

pork, ii. 31 

sweetbreads, ii. 31 

veal, ii. 30 
Marmalade, iv. 273 
Marriage relation, ii. 302 (see 

also "Wedding"). 
Marron glac6, v. 15 
Marrow balls for consomm6, 

iii. 17 
Marshmallow cake, iv. 192 
Martinez cocktail, v. 55 
Mashed beans, iv. 44 

potatoes, recipe, ii. 155 
Matelote (fish en), iU. 114 

of codfish, iii. 126 
Matzoth soup balls, iii. 106 
May wine, v. 43 
Mayonnaise dressing, iv. 211 

salmon, iii. 144 
Meagre soup, iii. 85 
Measures, ii. 292 
Meat and potato pie, iii. 221 

baking, ii. 185 

boiling, ii. 25, 154 

broiling, ii. 181 

buying and selecting; 
points to bear in mind, 
li. 23 

casserole, ii. 177 

composition of, etc., ii. 14 

composition of fresh 
(table), ii. 16 

constitiients of, ii. 15 



U2 



TNDtX 



Meat, cooking- with slow fire; 

with hot lire; in water, 

ii. 24 
digestibility of; compari- 

Bon and explanation, ii. 

17 
effect of boiling on, ii. 163 
effect of stewing, ii. 159 
effect of salt upon, Ii. 186 
extract; nutritiTe ralue 
Blight, ii. 19 
for beef pattiea, ill. 235 
(force-) balls, iii. 105 
how rendered more tender, 

Ii. 15 
how to make tender with 

acid, ii. 846 
jelly, iv. 265 
marketing for, Selecting, 

etc., ii. 126 
moulded, iii. 328 
roasting, ii. 188 
roasting time for, ii. 190, 

192 

sandwich, iv. 151 

slightly turned, how 
treated, ii. 843 

smothered, ii. 26 

steaming, ii. 26 

term includes what? sea- 
sons for various kinds; 
what kinds most nutri- 
tious; what kinds most 
digestible, ii. 22 

test for broiling, ii. 182 

treatment of, after buy- 
ing, ii. 23 

uses of the fat, ii. 24 

vinaigrette of cold, iii. 281 

what cuts best suited for 
various styles of cook- 
ing, ii. 23 

Why bread must be added 
to a meat diet, ii. 16 
Heats — bacon and calf's 
liver, iii. 266 

bacon and eggs, iii. 266 

baked beefsteak ft la jar- 
diniere, iii. 230 

baked ealTs liaad» liL B76 



Meats— ballotin of lamb, with 
green peas, ill. 246 

beef, braised, pot roasts iL 
175 

beef ft la mode, iii. 215 

beef balls, iii. 226 

beef fritters, iii. 235 

beef hash, iii. 218 

beef hot-pot, iii. 231 

beers liver, breaded, iii. 
223 

beef loaf, iii. 227 

beef patties, meat for, iii. 

235 
beefsteak with mushrooms, 

iii. 208 
beefsteak and onions, ilL 

209 
beef stew with dumplings, 

iii. 216 
blanquette of lamb, ilL 

^45 
blanquettb of veal, with 

cucumbers, iii. 282 
boiled bacon, iii. 265 
boiled beef*s heart, iiL 

232 
boiled calves* tongues, iiL 

273 
boiled dinner, old-fash- 
ioned, iii. 224 
boiled leg of mutton, Hi. 

289 
boiled sausages, with white 

wine, iii. 257 
boiled sweetbreads with 

tomato sauce, iii. 286 
braising inferior parts, iL 

174 
braised beefs tongue (No. 

1), iii. 232 
braised or smothered 

sweetbreads, iii. 289 
breast of lamb, braised ft 

la Milanese, iii. 245 
breast of veal, stuffed, iii. 

272 
brisket of beef, stewed, ilL 

233 

bcoited baoon* iiL Mft 



INDEX 



363 



Meats — ^broiled pork and cUU 

sauce, iii. 251 
broiled sweetbreads with 

stuffed tomatoes, iii. 287 
calf's brain, breaded, iii. 

274 
calf's heart, baked, iii. 330 
calf's heart, stuffed, iii. 329 
calf*8 liver and bacon, iii. 

279 
calf's liver and onions 

sant^, iii. 879 
calf's liver, broiled, iii. 278 
chieken-and-ham pie, iii. 

229 

chicken potpie, iii. 228 
corned beef, iii. 234 
creamed dried beef, iii. 225 
curried beef, iii. 226 
curried pork, iii. 250 
devilled sausafifes* iii. 256 
dried beef with eggs, iii. 

225 
fillet of beef, braised, iii. 

233 
foreign names of, v. 209-211 
and poultry pies — fowl pie, 

iii. 228 
Frankfurt sausages, iii. 267 
fricadelles of veal, iii, 272 
fricandeau of beef, iii. 236 
gravy for roast, ii. 192 
haricot mutton, iii. 242 
ham, broiled, iii. 266 
ham, fried, with eggs, iii. 

867 
ham, roasted, iii. 267 
Hamburg steak, iii. 207 
head cheese, iii. 264 
Irish stew, iii. 224 
Italian steak, iii. 236 
Jewish sausage, or cho- 

rissa, iii. 237 
lamb broohettes, iii. 247 
lamb chops, broiled, iii. 

249 
lamb chops, fried, with 

Parmesan, iii. 249 
lamb chops with cham- 
pagne sauce, iii. 847 



Meats .^ I a m b eplgframmea, 
with asparagus tips, iii. 
848 

lamb's fry, iii. 248 

leg of lamb, roasted, Iii. 
244 

leg of mutton, stuffed, iii. 

238 
leg of pork, stuffed and 

roasted, iii. 861 
liver, fried (English), iii. 

234 
loin of pork, roast, iii. 863 
Mecklenburg liver saus- 
ages, iii. 256 
Mexican chile con oame, 
iii. 328 
minced lamb with poached 

eggs, iii. 250 
minuten fleisch, iii. 281 
moulded meat, iii. 828 
New England pot roast, iii. 

231 
oUa podrida, iii. 838 
pan-broiled steak, iii. 206 
pig, sucking, roast, iii. 869 
pigs' ears, baked, iii. 852 
pigs* feet, boiled, iii. 258 
feet, stuffed t la F6ri- 

gueux, iii. 253 
pork chops, broiled, iii. 860 
pork chops, fried, iii. 260 
pork cutlets, fried, iii. 851 
pot roast, ii. 26 
pot roast of beef, iii. 888 
preparing for stew, ii. 161 
ragoiit of beef, iii. 210 
reehauff6 of beef & la Jar- 
diniere, iii. 226 
rib roast, iii. 213 
rissoles of beef, iii. 818 
roast beef, iii. 810 
roast, from the round, iii. 

2X8 
roast veal, iii. 271 
rolled boiled beef, UL 880 
sausages, iii. 253 
sausages, baked, iii. 856 
scalloped sweetbreads with 
mushrooms, iii. 884 



264 



INDEX 



Meats — scalloped sweet- 

breads, iii. 283 
shoulder of mutton, 

stuffed, iii. 240 
smothered beef, iii. 228 
souse, iii. 264 
spare-rib of pork, roasted, 

iii. 262 
spiced pressed beef, iii. 220 
steak a la Bordelaise, iii. 

227 
stewed sweetbreads, iii. 287 
stuffed or farcied roast 

beef, iii. 213 
sweetbreads, ill. 286 
^ sweetbreads, fried, iii. 289 
sweetbreads, larded, ft la 

financidre, iii. 290 
sweetbreads, plain boiled, 

iii. 286 
sweetbreads with spaghetti 

or macaroni and toma- 
toes, iii. 284 
sweetbread croquettes, iii. 

288 
sweetbread patties (vol-au- 

▼ents), iii. 288 
to broil a steak, iii. 205 
Teal croquettes with mush- 
rooms, iii. 276 
Teal cutlets, breaded, with 

tomato sauce, iii. 268 
Teal cutlets, plain, iii. 268 
Teal fricassee, iii. 276 
Teal liver pat£, iii. 283 
veal loaf, iii. 277 
Teal potpie, iii. 269 
Tinaigrrette of cold meat, 

iii. 281 
wiener schnitzel, iii. 280 
Yorkshire pudding (to be 

eaten with roast beef), 

iii. 214 
meat and potato pie, ill. 

221 
mutton, boiled, ii. 156 
mutton chops, broiled, iii. 

239 
mutton chops, pan-broiled, 
" iii. 240 



Meats — ^mutton, curried, iii. 
242 

mutton cutlets and mush- 
rooms, iii. 239 

mutton, fillet of, braised, 
iii. 241 

mutton, kebobbed, iii. 243 

mutton, loin of, roasted* 
iii. 243 
Mecklenburg liver sausagea, 

iii. 255 
Medford rum punch, v. 90 
Melon cream, iv. 325 

(musk and cantaloupe). It. 
127 
Menu for formal dinner, L 13 

making, ii. 115 

tables, ii. 119 

terms in foreign lan- 
guages, V. 208 
Mexican chile con came, ilL 

328 
Milanese ice cream, iv. 318 
Milk and seltzer, v. 33 
Milk as food for invalids, 
ii. 281 

biscuit, iv. 143 

digestibiUty of, ii. 70 

effect of gastric juices 
upon, ii. 68 

importance of sterilizing; 
method of sterilizing, ii. 
69 

nature and properties of, 
ii. 67 

perfect food for infant; 
not so for adult, ii. 69, 70 

porridge, ii. 285, iv. 131 

punch, varieties of, v. 93, 
107 

shake, v. 33 

soup, almond, iii. 34 

sherbet, iv. 327 

scalding to prevent turn- 
ing sour, ii. 68 

toast, ii. 287; iv. 149 

why the ideal food for in- 
fants; examination of its 
elements, ii. 7, 8 
Mille fruit ice cream, iv. 316 



INDEX 



265 



Minced chicken, iv. 263 
lamb with poached eggB, 

m. 250 
Hince-meat pie, iv. 278 

patties, iv. 278 
Mint julep, v. 62 
sauce (for young lamb), iii. 

196 
Minuten fleisch, iii. 281 
Miscellaneous information, ii. 

292 
Mississippi punch, v. 98 
Mixed diet, rules for, ii. 

110 
Mixed drinks: 
absinthe and water, v. 118 
absinthe frapp^, v. 60 
absinthe, French style, v. 

119 
ale sangaree, v. 86 
apple toddy, v. 72 
••arf and arf," v. 118 
arrack punch, v. 93 
bishop, V. 89 
black stripe, v. 122 
Boonekamp and whiskey, 

V. 121 
brandy and ginger ale, v. 

117 
brandy and gum, v. 118 
brandy and rum punch, v. 

90 
brandy and soda, v. 117 
brandy champerelle, v. 70 
brandy crusta, v. 60 
brandy daisy, v. 61 
brandy fix, v. 65 
brandy fizz, v. 76 
brandy flip (hot and cold), 

V. 81, 82 
brandy punch, v. 89 
brandy sangaree, v. 85 
brandy scaffa, v. 70 
brandy shrub, v. 88 
brandy sling (hot and 

cold), V. 77 
brandy smash, v. 64 
brandy sour, v. 71 
brandy straight, v. 116 
brandy toddy, v. 72 



Mixed drinks — ^bumt brandy 
and peach, v. 121 
catawba cobbler, v. 67 
champagne cobbler, v. 66 
champagne punch, v. 98 
champagne velvet, v. 60 
cherry sangaree, iv. 85 
cider cup, v. 59 
claret cobbler, v. 67 
claret punch, v. 94 
cocktails, absinthe, v. 52 
cocktails, bottle, v. 53 
cocktails, brandy and im- 
proved brandy, v. 52, 53 
cocktails, champagne, v. 53 
cocktails, coffee, v. 54 
cocktails, gin, Old Tom 

and improved, v. 54 
cocktails, Japanese, v. 55 
cocktails, Jersey, v. 55 
cocktails, Manhattan, v. 54 
cocktails, Martinez, v. 55 
cocktails, morning - glory, 

V. 55 
cocktails, Saratoga, v. 56 
cocktails, vermouth, v. 56 
cocktails, whiskey, v. 56^ 

57 
coffee kirsch, v. 59 
Columbia skin, v. 81 
Copenhagen, v. 80 
Cura^oa punch, v. 95 
currant shrub, v. 87 
eggnogg, varieties, v. 74, 75 
egg sour, V. 72 
El Dorado punch, v. 94 
four-fruit liquor, v. 57 
gin and pine, v. 122 
gin and tansy, v. 122 
gin and wormwood, v. 122 
gin crusta, v. 61 
gin daisy, ▼. 62 
gin fix, V. 65 
gin fizz, V. 76 
flip (hot or cold), v. 82 
gin julep, V. 64 
gin punch, v. 90 
gin rickey, v. 57 
gin sangaree, v. 86 
gin sling, v. 77 



a(6 



INDEX 



drlnkft— gin ftmaflh, ▼. 
65 

gin Bonr, v. 71 

gin toddy, ▼. 73 

golden fius, v. 77 

half-and-half, ▼. 118 

Hebe*a oup, ▼. 58 

Heidelberg punch, ▼• 68 

high-ball, ▼. 57 

hock cobbler, ▼. 67 

hot brandy and mm 
punch, V. 100 

hot English flip (rum or 
ale), V. 114 

hot Scotch, V. 60 

hot rnm, v. 78 

hot spiced rum, v. 78 

imperial brandy punch, v. 
101 

imperial punch, v. 101 

"Jerry Thomas*'* own de- 
canter bitters, v. 121 

Jersey sour, v. 71 

knickerbocker, v. 67 

locomotire, ▼. 115 

Mamie Taylor, y* 57 

mint julep, y. 68 

peach and honey, v. 181 

pineapple Julep, v. 64 

pony brandy, v. 116 

pousse eaf6, various styles, 
V. 66, 69 

punch, ale, ▼. 113 

punch, cider, t. 114 

punch, apple, v. 118 

punch, Barbadoes, ▼. 113 

Light-Guard punch, v. 102 

maraschino punch, t. 07 

Medford rum punch, y. 90 

milk punch, varieties of, v. 

Mississippi punch, V. 96 
mulled cider, v. 84 
mulled wine, v. 84 
mulled wine with eggs, v. 

83 
negus, v. 86, 87 
orgeat punch, v. 95 
Philadelphia fish - house 

pundi* v» 109 



Mixed drinks^porter 
garee, v. 86 
port-wine flip, v. 83 
port-wine negus, v. 86-87 
port-wine sangaree, v. 86 
punch grassot, v. 97 
quince liqueur, v. 85 
raspberry shrub, v. 88 
Bocky Mountain punch« v. 

09 
Roman punch, v. 96 
rum flip (hot or cold), v. 8d 
rum shrub, v. 89 
sangaree, v. 85-86 
Santa Cruz rum punch, v. 

91 
Seventh Regiment Na- 
tional Guard punch, v. 96 
sauterne punch, v. 95 
sherry flip, v, 83 
sherry punch, v, 95 
shrub, varieties of, v. 87-89 
silver flzz, v. 76 
Sixty-ninth Regiment 

punch, V. 97 
soda negus, v. 87 
punch, Soyer's gin, v. 105 
spread-eagle punch, v. 103 
St. Charles punch, v. 96 
strawberry punch, v. 100 
Tom and Jerry, v. 79 
Tom Collins, brandy and 

gin, V. 81 
Tom Collins, whiskey, t. 81 
vanilla punch, t. 94 
punch, west Indian, ▼. 113 
punch, wedding, v. 118 
whiskey flza, v. 76 
whiskey iiip (hot or oold), 

V. 82-83 
punch, orange, t» 118 
punch, regent's, v« 111 
whiskey punches (hot ak^ 

cold), V. 91-98 
whiskey skin (Sootoh ^c 

Irish), V. 80-81 
whiskey sling, v. 78 
punch, dry, v. Ill 
punch lelly v. ill 
punch k la Fordt y* 110 



INDEX. 



267 



Mixed drinks— punchy Gothic, 

▼. 110 
punch, nectar, ▼. 112 
punch tea, v. 109 
punch, Buke of Norfolk, ▼. 

109 
punch ft la Romaine, ▼. 108 
punch, Oxford, v. 108 
punch, milk, varieties of, 

▼. 107 
punch, Century club, v. 107 
punch, royal, v. 106 
punch pineapple, v. 106 
punch. United Service, v. 

106 
punch, Nuremburg, v. 105 
punch, arrack, v. 105 
punch, imperial arrack, ▼. 

104 
punch, cold ruby, v. 104 
punch, bimbo, v. 104 
punch, Canadian, v. 103 
punch non-such, v. 103 
punch, Bochester, v. 103 
punch. La Patria, v. 102 
Bhine wine and seltzer, v. 

117 
rock and rye, v. 118 
mm and milk, v. 123 
Santa Cruz fix, v. 66 
Santa Cruz fizz, v. 75 
Santa Cruz rum daisy, v. 

61 
Santa Cruz sour, v. 70 
Saratoga brace-up, v. 68 
sauteme cobbler, v. 67 
shandy-gafF, v. 117 
sherry and bitters, v. 116 
sherry and egg, v. 116 
sherry and ice, v. 116 
sherry cobbler, ▼. 66 
sleeper, v. 114 
sack posset, v. 120 
spiced wine, v. 124 
split soda and brandy, ▼. 

117 
stone fence, v. 118 
tip-top brandy, v. 104 
usquebach, v. 58 
^hiakej cobbler, y. 68 



Mixed drinks— w h 1 s k e y 
crusta, V. 61 

whiskey daisy, v. 61 

whiskey fix, v. 66 

whiskey julep, ▼. 64 

whiskey smash, ▼. 65 

whiskey sour, v. 71 

whiskey toddy, v. 73 

white lion, v. 70 

white plush, v. 119 

white tiger's milk, v. 115 

white-wine negus, v. 125 

white-wine whey, ▼. 124 
Mixing and serving drinks; 
hints to the mixer, y. 61 

batters and fritters, ii. 
106 
Mocha cake, iv. 180 
Mock bisque, iii. 58 

terrapin soup, iii. 95 

turtle soup, iii. 71 

turtle bean soup, iii. 80 
Modern wines of Greece, v. 

161 
Molasses cookies, iv. 202 

sauce, iv. 312 
Morning-glory cocktail, y. 55 
Muffins, egg, iv. 145 

English, iv. 142 

Graham, iv. 144 

hominy, iv. 144 

oatmeal, iv. 145 

raised, ii. 236 

rice, iv. 144 

Sally Lunn, iv. 144 
Mulled cider, v. 84 

wine, V. 84 

wine with eggs, y. 83 
Mushrooms, creamed, y. 13 
Mulligatawny soup, ill. 2i 
Mush, boiled corn-meal« iL 

228 

Indian, fried, ii. 172 
Mushrooms, baked, iv. 8| 

broiled, iv. 33 

button, stewed, iv. 35 
Mushroom catsup, iv 38 

consomm^, with, IXL 17 

creamed, iv. 35 

escaUoped, iv* M 



268 



INDEX 



Mushroom omelet* iii. 343 
pickled, iv. 29 
ragoCtt, iv. 36 
melon, iv. 121 
sauce, iii. 197 
soup, cream of, iii. 44 
toast, creamed, iv. 150 
with bacon, iv. 37 
and beefsteak pie, iv. 34 
Mustard sauce, iii. 195 
Musicales and dramatics, i. 

187 
Musicale, general hints, i. 

i. 187 
guests' punctual arrival, i. 

191 
invitations and acknowl- 
edgments, i. 190 
programme printed, i. 191 
progranune, selection of, i. 

187 
^ refreshments, costume, 

etc., i. 191 
when very informal, i. 191 
Muskmelon fritters, iv. 119 
Vutton, ii. 27 
and lamb, how divided by 

the butcher, ii. 29 
and lamb, sheeps* heads, 

kidneys, liver, and heart, 

ii. 30 
boiled, recipe, ii. 156 
boiled, caper sauce, ii. 156 
broth, iii. 29; iv. 266 
broth, Scotch, iii. 30 
chops, broiled, iii. 239 
chops, pan-broiled, iii. 240 
curried, iii. 242 
cutlets and mushrooms, iii. 

239 
fillet of, braised, iii. 241 
haricot, iii. 242 
how to select, ii. 128 
kebobbed, iii. 243 
leg of, ii. 29 
loin of, roasted, iii. 243 
pie, iii. 295 
roast, ii. 29, 192 
saddle of, ii. 29 
shoulder of, IL 29 



Mutton, shoulder of, studfed* 
iii. 240 
Southdown, ii. 27 

Napkin, use of, i. 63 
Names, foreign, of meats, 
fruits, and vegetables, 
V. 209-211 
Nectar, for dog days, v. 40 

punch, V. 112 
Negus, 86, 87 

Nesselrode pudding, iv. 320 
" Never too late to learn," IL 

332 
New England pot roast, iii* 

231 
Non-such punch, v. 103 
Noodles (see **NudelB") 
Nougat, iv. 338 
Nudels, buttered, iv. 28 

fritters, iv. 29 

macaroni, boiled in milk, 
iv. 26, 27 

with Parmesan, or aa 
gratin, iv. 28 
Nuremberg punch, v. 105 
Nut and fruit sandwich, iv. 
157 

and tomato soup, iii. 47 

butter, V. 14 

butter sandwich, iv. 155 

croquettes, or cutlets, v. 17 

sandwich, iv. 153 

soufflg, V. 16 
Nuts, and their uses, v. 13 

general discussion, ii. 275 

pudding, iv. 284 

chestnuts, v. 16 

cocoanut, v. 15 ' 

glazed, V. 16 

marron glac6, v. 15 

salted, V. 15 

sugared, v. 15 

Oats, rolled, ii. 225 
Oatmeal, ii. 194, 224 

muifins, iv. 145 

porridge, iv. 129 

pur6e, iii. 61 

Scotch, ii. 226 



INDEX 



269 



Oatmeal gruel, ii. 285 
Odors, removed by charcoal, 

ii. 345 
Okra soup, iii. 80, 77 
Old Navy toast, v. 199 
Olive sauce, iii. 197 
OUa podrida, iii. 238 
Oloroso, ▼. 155 
Omelet, ii. 92. 93; v. 7 

asparagus, iii. 342 

baked, iii. 345 

cheese, iii. 342; y. 9 

French, v. 8 

fruit, iii. 344 

green com, iii. 342 

ham, iii. 342 

mushroom, iii. 343 

nut, V. 9 

onion, iii. 344 

oyster, iii. 344 

plain, iii. 341 

tomato, iii. 343 

rum, v. 9 

Spanish, y. 8 

sweet, V. 9 

v^ith peas, iii. 346 
Onions, ii. 214 

h la cr^me, iv. 89 

boiled, ii. 219 

for beefsteak, etc., iv. 92 

pickled, iv. 88, 257 

Slain boiled, iv. 90 
panish, baked, iv. 90 

stevired, iv. 91 

stuffed and baked, iv. 91 

with grated cheese, iv. 93 

and eggs, iv. 89 

cream soup, iii. 37 

omelet, iii. 344 

porridge, iv. 89 

sauce (soubise sauce), iii. 
200 

soup, simple, iii. 66 

soup (Spanish), iii. 27 
Orangeade, v. 36 
Orange cake, iv. 192 

fritters, iv. 164 

jelly, iv. 266 

prepared for invalid, ii. 286 

pudding, iv. 290 



<4 



Ora*>ge punch, v. 112 

sauce, iii. 194, 323 

sherbert, v. 40; iv. 327 

how to serve, iv. 126 
Orgeat lemonade, v. 30 

punch, V. 95 
Origin and history of wines, 
V. 126 

of " toasts," V. 175 
" Our Absent Friends '* 
(toast), V. 204 

Our Country" (toast), v. 
205 

Oven, how to reduce tem- 
perature in, ii. 264 
Oxford punch, v. lOS 
Ox kidney, stewed, iii. 327 
Oxtail «oup, iii. 27 
Oysters, ii. 58 

& la Newburg, v. 5 

and mushrooms, iii. 177 

bisque, iii. 55 

broiled, ii. 66 

broiled, in the shell, or on 
the half shell, iii. 175 

broiled on toast, iii. 176 

chicken stuffed with, iiL 
301 

cocktail, iii. 175 

creamed, ii. 64; iii. 174 

fried, ii. 66; iii. 176 

gumbo, iii. 31 

how to broil without open- 
ing, iii. 175 

Old Virginia fried, Ui. 177 

omelet, iii. 344 

on the half shell, iii. 173 

plant, iv. 3d 

plant, creamed, iv. 33 

plant, fried, iv. 32 

panned, ii. 64 

preparing, ii. 64 

" roast " in their own 
liquor, iii. 179 

sauce, iii. 199 

scalloped, ii. 65; iii. 178 

season for, i. 16 

served on half shell, 1. 16 

soup, Virginia, iii. 46 

Btew, ii. 65 



270 



INDJBX 



Oysters, stewed. Hi. 174 
rarebit, v. 5 
BtuJIlng, iii 303 

Panada, It. 267 
Pan-broiled mutton chopB, 
iU. 840 

steak, iii. 206 

Pan-broiUn«r. ii. 183 
Pancakes, iv. 178 

(k la crdme), iv. 173 

cream. It. 174 

English, iv. 172 

French, iv. 174 

plain, iv. 173 

snow, !▼, 174 

without eggs, Iv. 178 
Paris, flsh, k la, iii. US 
Parisian pousse caf^, ▼• 69 

soup, iii. 65 

Spanish soup, iii. 64 
Parmesan cheese and oys- 
ters, iv, 344 
Parsley butter, iii. 200 
Parsnips, ii. 212, 221 

soup, iii. 81 
Partridges, baked, iii. 310 
Parsnips, boiled, iv. 39 

browned under roast meat, 
iv. 40 

fried, iv. 40 
Party (see " Ball ") 
Paste, brioche, ii. 253 

for common pies, ii. 248 

French, for meat-pies, ii. 

249 

puff, ii. 249 

shortcake, ii. 250 
Pastry, ii. 247 

recipes, ii. 250 
Pat6, veal liver, iii. 283 
Patties, chicken, iii. 293 

sweetbread (vol-au-vents), 
iii. 288 
Peach and honey. ▼. 121 

shortcake, iv. 178 
Peaches, sweet pickled, It. 

258 
Peanut Jumbles, iy. 204 

soup, iii. 46 



Peppers, stuffed, iv. 353 
Peanut brittle, iv. 337 
Pears, chipped gingered, iv. 
272 

imperial, iv. 117 

sweet pickled, iv. 258 
Peas, iv. 46; U. 216 

boiled, ii. 218 

dried, ii. 221 

green, iv. 49 

green, k la crdme, It. 60 

green, to boil, iv. 48 

green, stewed, iv. 49 

omelet with, iii. 346 

pur6e of, iv. 50 

stewed, in turnip cups, iv. 
51 

soup, cream of, iii. 38 

(hard-) soup, iii. 70 

(split-; soup, iii. 81 

(split-) soup (No. 2), iii 
79 
Peppers, Creole, iv. 113 

stewed, iv. 114 

stuffed sweet, iv. 113 
Pepper sauce, iii. 189 
Perch, fried, iii. 164 
Pfeffernessle, iv. 205 
Pheasant, broiled, iii. 319 
Philadelphia ilsh-houae 

punch, V. 102 
Piccalilli, iv. 254 
Pickerel, baked, iii. 164 

boned, baked, iii. 165 
Pickle relishes, iv. 252 
Pickles, green tomato aweet» 

iv. 258 
Pickled beets, iv. 58 

cucumbers, iv. 88 

gherkins, iv. 256 

mushrooms, iv. 39 

onions, iv. 88, 257 

pears or peaches, 9weet| 
iv. 258 

salmon, iii. 144 

walnuts, iv. 254 
Pies, apple, ii. 261 

apple, Dutch, It. 276 
apple dumpling, baked. It. 
275 



INDEX 



tJi 



Pie&— apple potpie. It. 276 
apple tarts, iv. 279 
Banbury tarts. It. 277 
ohicken-and-ham iii. 829 
chocolate, !▼. 280 
cottager's, iv. 34 
cream, !▼. 280 
cream apple, iv. 276 
cream puits, !▼. 281 
currant tarta,' iv. 279 
fowl, iii. 228 
gooseberry, !▼. 278 
gooseberry tarts, iv. 279 
green apple, iv. 275 
lemon, if. 252; iv. 280 
mince, ii. 252 
mince-meat, iv. 278 
mince patties. It. 278 
paste for, ii. 248, 249 
beefsteak, iii. 293 
mutton, iii. 295 
giblet, iU. 294 
chicken, iii. 291 
pumpkin, iv. 278 
pumpkin or squash, iv. 279 
rosettes, iv. 281 
salmon, iii. 145 
squash, or pumpkin, ir. 279 
tartlets, iv. 279 

Pig, Bucking, roast, iii. 259 

Pigeon, ii. 38 

Pigeons, stuffed and roasted 
(German method), iii. 318 

Pigs' ears, baked, iii. 252 
feet, boiled, iii. 252 
feet, stuffed ft la P§ri- 
gueux, iii. 253 

Pigs in blankets, iii. 180 

Pike, baked in sour cream 
(German), iii. 162 

Pineapples, iv. 129 

Pineapple Julep, v. 64 
punch, V. 106 
water, v. 37 

**Pink teas," i. 61 

Piquant sauce, iii. 186 

Piqu6, meat, ii. 202 

Pistachio ice cream, iv. 320 

Plain layer cake, iv. 183 
omaletii^ iiL 841 



Planked fi8h--shad, ill. 134 
Plate, fish, iii. 113 
Plovers, roasted, iii. 317 
Plum pudding, Christmas, iv. 

287 
Poached eggs, iiL 834 
Polenta, iv. 45 
Popovers, ii. 199; iv. 176 
Pork, ii. 31 
Ponouchi, iv. 837 
Pony brandy, v. 116 
Popcorn balls, iv. 340 
Pork, broiled, and Chili 
sauce, iii. 251 
chops, ii. 31 
chops, broiled, iii. 260 
chops, fried, iii. 260 
curried, iii. 250 
cutlets, fried, iii. 261 
indigestibility, U. 81 
leg of, stuffed and roasted, 

iii. 261 
loin of, roast, iii. 263 
selecting in market, ii. 130 
spare-rib of, roasted, iiL 

262 

Porridge, ii. 224 
milk, ii. 285; iv. 131 
oatmeal, iv. 129 
onion, iv. 89 

Port wine, v. 150 
wine flip, v. 83 
wine negus, v. 86, 87 
wine sangaree, v. 85 
wine sauce, iii. 200, 323 

Porter sangaree, v. 86 

Porteree, v. 86 

Porterhouse steak, ii* 27 

Portuguese soup, iii. 100 

Potpie, apple, iv. 276 

Pot au feu, iii. 101 

Potpie, chicken, iii. 228 
veal, iii. 269 

Pot roast, ii. 26 
roast. New England, iii. 231 
roast of beef, iU. 222 
roast, recipe, ii. 175 

Potato balls, brown, iL 217 
balls, fried, iv. 3 
balla surprise* iL 217 



272 



INDEX 



Potato basket, iv. 5 
cakes, iv. 1 
chowder, iii. 97 
cream of, iii. 44 
croquettes, iv. 13 
croquettes, sweet, iv. 12 
dressing for duck, iii. 203 
fritters, iv. 14 
puff, iv. 4 
ribbons, iv. 14 
rice iv. 12 
BOum6, iv. 5 
sweet, soufS^, iv. 6 
(browned) soup, iii. 78 
(savory) soup, iii. 78 
& la crdme, iv. 15 
au gratin, iv. 3 
baked, iv. 4; ii. 215 
boiled, iv. 7 
boiled in their jackets, iv. 

8 
boiled, recipe, ii. 155 
broiled, iv. 9 
browned, mashed, iv. 1 
browned under a roasting 

joint, iv. 9 
casserole, iv. 13 
cooking, peeling, etc., ii. 

209 
creamed, ii. 217 
discussion of, ii. 98 
French fried, iv. 2 
fried raw, iv. 3 
fried, recipe, ii. 171 
German fried, iv. 9 
hashed brown iv. 10 
lyonnaise, iv. 1 
mashed, iv. 6 
mashed, recipe, ii. 155 
Saratoga chips, iv. 10 
sautS, ii. 170 
scalloped, iv. 12 
selecting according to size; 

washing, ii. 211 
Southern sweet, ii. 217 
steamed, ii. 195 
stuffed, iv. 2 

sweet, and apples, iv. 11 
sweet, au gratin, iv. 11 
sweet, escalloped, iv. 11 



Potatoes— what sort to boil, 
ii. 99 
with white sauce, iv. 7 

Poulette, cod tongues, iiL 129 

Poultry — baked chicken, iii. 
296 
baked fried chicken, iii. 

297 
capon, roasted with cream 

stuffing, ill. 304 
carving, v. 25 
chicken curry, iii. 299 
chicken en casserole, iii. 

300 
chicken stuffed with oys- 
ters, iii. 301 
chicken terrapin, iii. 298 
chicken timbales, iii. 301 
cleaning, ii. 36 
drawing, ii. 35 
fricasseed chicken, iiL 299 
fried chicken, iii. 296 
hangring up; picking and 

scalding, ii. 34 
Indian burdwan, iii. 306 
kiUing a fowl, ii. 34 
kuwab fowl, iii. 305 
p&tes of foies gras, iii. 313 
pilan of chicken, iiL 300 
pressed chicken, iii. 298 
roast turkey, iii. 302 
roti de pauvre homme, iii. 

304 
scalloped chicken, iii. 297 
selecting, ii. 34 
treatment of, before kill- 
ing, ii. 33 
trussing, ii. 36 

Pound cake, iv. 195 

Pousse caf^, v. 68, 69 
I'amour, v. 68 

Preserves, ii. 272 

Pressed spiced beef, iii. 220 

Prime ribs of beef, ii. 27 

Prune sauce, iv. 312 
sauce for pudding, iv. 312 

Prunes, stewed, iv. 128 

Puddings, ii. 256 
apple mangle, iv. 301 
apple meringue, iv* 291 



CNDEK 



273 



Puddings — ^apple, or other 
' fruit souffle, iv. 294 
apple pudding (English), 

iv. 882 
apple snow, No. 1, iv. 298 
apple snow, No. 2, iv. 

302 
apple tapioca, ii. 261; iv. 

289 
apricot custard, iv. 300 
arrowroot soufiS^, iv. 294 
baked batter, iv. 293 
baked custard, iv. 299 
baked rice, ii, 260 
baked sago, iv. 291 
batter, ii. 258 
blackberry, iv. 299 
boiled custard, iv. 299 
Boston delight, iv. 288 
bread custard, 292 
brown bread, iv. 292 
caramel, iv. 296 
Charlotte russe, iv. 298 
cherry, iv. 290 
chocolate, iv. 290 
cracker raisin, iv. 288 
date, iv. 289 
floating island, iv. 300 
frozen custard, iv. 300 
frozen plum, 301 
frozen fig, iv. 324 
boiled Indian-meal, iv. 281 
bread, ii. 261 
bread, light, iv. 261 
chicken and rice, iii. 303 
Christmas plum, iv. 287 
com, iv. 53 
cottage, iv. 282 
flavoring, ii. 258 
fruit roly-poly, iv. 285 
gooseberry, iv. 283 
grround rice souffle, iv. 295 
gruetz, iv. 283 
heavenly hash, iv. 297 
huckleberry, iv. 290 
Indian tapioca, ii. 260 
Jewish almond, iv. 293 
lemon souffle, iv. 295 
meat, extra care necessary, 

ii. 259 



Puddings — ^nesselrodCy iv. 320 
nut, iv. 284 
orange, iv. 290 
plum, keeping for months, 

ii. 259 
Polish, iv. 286 
preparing ingredients, ii. 

258 
rice, iv. 289 
rice. No. 2, iv. 290 
Botterdam, iv. 285 
rum, iv. 285 
Russian taganrok, iv. f 
sauces (see " Sauces "^^ A, 

148 
snow eggs, iv. 298 
snow, iv. 297 
sponge-cake, iv. 267 
steamed, ii. 257 
steamed Qraham, iv. 288 
strawberry, iv. 302 
suet, iv. 283 
tapioca custard, iv. 297 
cloth, never wash with 

soap, ii. 260 
Puffs, egg-plant, iv. 59 
Pulled bread, iv. 133 
Punch, see also "Mixed 

drinks " 
ft la Ford, v. 110 
& la Romaine, v. 108 
grassot, V. 97 
Heidelberg, v. 58 
jelly, V. Ill 
June tea, v. 32 
Lalla Rookh, iv. 332 
Pur^, baked, iv. 51 
carrot, iii. 60 
green pea, 'iii. 59 
lima bean, iii. 60 
oatmeal, iii. 61 
of chestnuts, iv. Ill 
of turnips, iv. 107 
of Jerusalem artichokes, iv* 

68 
of peas, iv. 50 
of spinach, with butter, iv« 

86 
red bean, iii. 59 
tomato, iii. 63 



274 



INDSX 



Pnr^, tomato and green pea, 
ili. 62 
tomato and ' greeik pea 
^ withont stock (No. £), Ui. 
63 
tomato with maoaroni, iii. 
61 

Quails, roast, iii. 319 

trussing of, iii. 319 
Queen soup, iii. 35 

vermicelli soup, iii. 40 
Quenelle soup, iii. 64 
Quick rolls, iv. 137 
Quince liqueur, ▼. 85 

Babbit, ii. 41 
or hare (German haaen- 

pfeffer), iii. 315 
or hare, braised, iii. 314 
Badish, iv. 05 
Bagotit, beef , iii. 319 
defined, Ii. 161 
mushroom, iv. 36 
Baisin sauce, iv. 282 
Bange, essentials for a good, 
ii. 133 
management of, ii. 131 
Baspberry shortcake, iv. 178 

shrub, V. 88 
"Beasons for drinking," v. 

203 
Beceptions, i. 176 
costume, i. 180 
d^but; debutante's cos- 
tume, and position in 
receiving, 1. 186 
form and propriety, 1. 180 
guests' arrival, i. 182 
host and hostess* special 

duties, i. 185 
invitations, i. 177 
invitations, acknowledg- 
ment of, i. 179 
refreshments, i. 184 
"teas," i. 178 
B6chauff6 of beef ft la Jar- 
diniere, iii. 226 
Bed bean pur^e, iii. 59 
texcato soup, iii. 76 



Bed snapper, baked, iii. 155 

snapper, boiled, iii. 155 

snapper soup, iii. 95 

snapper, steamed, ilL 154 
Begent's punch, ▼. Ill 
Belishes, fish, iv. 250 

pickle, iv. 253 
Bonedies, some useful, iL 

337 
Beply to toast, *'Th6 Host,** 

▼. 193 
Besponse to ** The Ladiea," 

V. 192 
Bhine wine and seltzer, v. 
117 

wines, v. 146 
Bhubarb, steamed, IL 828 

stewed, iv. 125 

water, ii. 284 

wine, V. 49 
Bib roast> iii. 213 
Bicardo sauce for game, liL 

325 
Bice, ii. 225 

and tomato soup, iiL 87 

boiled, plain, iv. 15 

boiled with milk, iv. 15 

Creole, iv. 17 

croquettes, iv. 16 

East Indian method, !▼. 17 

for invalid, iv. 268 

fritters, iv. 19 

gems, iv. 146 

griddle cakes, iv. 170 

rice muffins iv. 144 

pudding, iv. 280, 290 

pudding, chicken and, Iii. 
303 

risotto, iv. 16 

soup (savory), iii. 77 

souffle, iv. 20 

steamed, ii. 226 
Bisotto, iv. 16 
Bissoles of beef, iii. 218 

of fish, iii. 114 
Boast beef, iii. 210 

beef, recipe, "don'ts," Ii. 
190 

beef, stuffed or farcied, iiL 
213 



INDBX 



27S 



lUMist canTas-back ducks, ill. 
308 

capon, with cream atufflng, 
iiL 304 

oheatnuts, !▼. 118 

com (old-fashioned), iv, 56 

ham, iii. 207 
Boasting ears, iv. 54 

process, ii. 188 

meat, time for, ii. 190 

goose, iii. 311 

grouse, iii. 821 

gravy for, il. 192 

lamb, time for, 11. 198 

leg of lamb, iii. 244 

loin of mutton, ill. 243 

loin of pork, iiL 263 

mutton, ii. 192 

oysters (in their oiwn 
liquor), iii. 179 

pig, temcking, ill. 259 

plovers, iii. 317 

quails. Hi. 819 

round, iii. 212 

ruddy ducks, ill. 309 

spare-rib of pork, iii. 262 

teal, ill. 310 

turkey, iii. 302 

veal, iii. 271 

Teal, time for, 11. 192 

venison (German recipe), 
iii. 321 

v^oodcock, lil. 322 
Rochester punch, v. 108 
Rock and rye, v. 118 
Rocky Mountain punch, ▼• 99 
Roman punch, v. 96 
Roe croquettes, iii. 136 
Rolls, breakfast, Iv. 140 

currant, iv. 137 

English breakfast, Iv. 148 

Graham, iv. 141 

Parker House, Iv. 141 

quick, iv. 137 
Rolled boUed beef, 111. 230 

oats, 11. 225 
Roly-poly fruit pudding, iv. 

286 
Roman punch, iced, Iv. 831 
Root beer^ ▼• 34 



Roots and tubercles, 11. 98 

Rosettes, iv. 281 

Roti de pauvre homme, Hi. 

304 
Rotterdam pudding, iv. 28S 
Roux for thickening sauces, 

iii. 201 
Royal punch, v. 106 
Ruddy ducks, roast^ IIL 808 
Rum, V. 174 
Rum and milk, v. 123 

cake, iv. 193 

flip (hot or cold), ▼, 82 

pudding, iv. 185 

shrub, V. 89 
Rusk, Iv. 138 
Russian cream, iv. 809 
Russian Julienne soup, IIL 
22 

punch tart, iv. 197 
Russian sandwich, iv. 158 

zakouski, iv. 252 
Rye bread, iv. 135 

griddle cakes, iv. 168 

Sack posset, v. 122 

Sago pudding, baked, Iv. 291 

soup, cream of, 111. 89 

soup, ii. 143 

Boup (Hawaiian recipe), UL 

66 
soup without meat, ill. 87 
Salads, ii. 237 
anchovy, iv. 240 
apple and celery, iv. 250 
apple and cress, iv. 250 
apple and nut, Iv. 246 
apple and pineapple, Iv. 

244 
artichoke, iv. 226 
asparagus, iv. 228 
asparagus and cucumbenii 

iv. 245 
asparagus and shrimp, iv. 

231 
baked banana, Iv. 246 
banana and orange, Iv. 248 
bean, iv. 218 
bean and beet, iv. 230 
beef, iv. 243 



276 



INDEX 



Salad, beet, farci, iv. 230 
Brunswick, iv. 229 
cabbage, iv. 230 
California fig, iv. 247 
cauliflower, in red-pepper 

cases, It. 222 
celery, iv. 248 
cherry, iv. 248 
cheese, iv. 240 
chestnut, iv. 249 
chicken, iv. 241 
chicory, iv. 219 
chiffonade, iv. 225 
cold slaw, iv. 223 
crab, iv. 235 

crab (same as lobster No. 
3), iv. 234 

crab and tomato, iv. 236 
cucumber, iv. 224 
cucumber and tomato, iv. 

218 
<mrrant, iv. 247 
daisy, iv. 231 
dandelion, iv. 224 
egg, with sardine mayon- 
naise, iv. 231 
endive, with winter, iv. 210 
fish, ornamental, iv. 239 
French, iv. 225 
French bean and celery, iv. 

227 
frozen tomato, iv. 222 
fruit, iv. 247 
German, iv. 226 
German potato, iv. 229 
how served at dinner, i. 18 
Independence Day (No. 1), 

iv. 218 
Independence Day (No. 2), 

iv. 219 
Italian, iv. 232, 241 
lettuce, ii. 240 
lettuce, German recipe, iv. 

216 
lettuce, iv. 220 
lettuce and tomato, iv. 218 
lettuce lemon, iv. 217 
lettuce, with egg dressing, 

iv. 217 
lobster, iL 241 



Salad, lobster (No. 1), iv. 
233 

lobster (No. 2), iv. 233 

lobster (No. 3), iv. 234 

lobster, dressing for, iv. 
234 

lobster coral sauce, dress- 
ing, iv. 235 

macedoine, iv. 227 

Manhattan, iv. 242 

meat, ii. 240 

mint lemon, iv. 217 

nasturtium, iv. 223 

ornamental fish, iv. 239 

oyster, iv. 237 

pea, iv. 232 

pimola and cheese, iv. 219 

pineapple, iv. 244 

plain eggt iv. 231 

poet's recipe for, iv. 208 

potato, ii. 241; iv. 229 

rainbow, iv. 222 

raspberry cream, iv. 245 

rules for, ii. 238 

BuBsian, iv. 240 

salsify, iv. 233 

salmon mayonnaise, iv. 238 

salmon, moulds, iv. 237 

sardine, iv. 238 

sardine, or Saxon, iv. 240 

Saxon, iv. 240 

scallop, iv. 237 

shadroe, iv. 238 

shrimp and tomato aspic, 
iv. 236 

sorrel, iv. 227 

spinach, iv. 225 

summer, iv. 215 

surprise, iv. 217 

Swedish, iv. 239 

sweetbreads and cucum- 
ber, iv. 224 

sweetbreads with celery, 
iv. 243 

tarragon fruit, iv. 244 

timbale of chicken mayon* 
naise, iv. 241 

tomato, ii. 241 

tomato and com, iv. 221 

tomato and peanut, iv. 221 



INDEX 



277 



Salad — ^tomato baskets with 
cucumber jelly, iv. 320 

tomato jelly, iv. 221 

tomato, with whipped 
cream, !▼. 222 

tmffle, iv. 228 

vegetable, ii. 242 

▼egretable, in jelly, iv. 232 

Waldorf, iv. 249 

walnut, iv. 249 

whales, iv. 220 

and relishes, iv. 208 
Salad-dressings, ii. 242; iv. 
209 

stir ingredients carefully, 
ii. 346 

boiled, ii. 239; iv. 213 

boiled, Mrs. Hotchkin*s, iv. 
214 

cream, iv. 212 

cream, boiled, iv. 213 

Dr. Eltchener's recipe, ii. 
244 

for lobster salad, iv. 234 

French, iv. 209 

French (No. 2), iv. 211 

Italian, iv. 209 

lemon, iv. 210 

mayonnaise, iv. 211 

mayonnaise cream, iv. 212 

orange, iv. 210 

sauce, & la Lowry, ii. 246 

sour cream, iv. 212 

sweet, iv. 209 

tarragon vinegar for, iv. 
213 

whipped cream, iv. 212 

without oil, ii. 243 
Salad rolls, chicken, iv. 243 
Sally lunn, iv. 138 

muffins, iv. 144 
Salmi, defined, ii. 161 

duck, iii. 310 
Salmon bisque, iii. 54 

boiled, iii. 141 

broiled smoked, iii. 144 

curry of, iii. 143 

mayonnaise, iii. 144 

on toast, iii. 145 

pickled* iii« 144 



Salmon pie, iii. 145 

scallop of, iii. 146 

trout, baked, iii. 142 

trout, boiled, iii. 143 
Salt, ii. 101 

effect on meat, ii. 186 
Salts — ^^kinds of; why we salt 
food, Ii. 12 

cod, tid-bits, iii. 128 

cod, with brown butter, iii. 
119 

mackerel, baked, ii. 18? 
Sandwiches: 

Adelaide, iv. 157 

anchovy, iv. 161 

brunette, iv. 160 

cheese, iv. 152 

chicken, iv. 152 

egg, iv. 152 

fish, iv. 155 

Harlequin, iv. 154 

Irish, iv. 160 

Italian, iv. 159 

jam, iv. 158 

meat, iv. 151 

nut and fruit, iv. 157 

nut butter, iv. 155 

nut, iv. 153 

Russian, iv. 153 

salmon, iv. 150 

sardine, iv. 156 

supper, iv. 158 

tuti-frutti, iv. 154 

watercress, or other salad 
iv. 157 
Sangaree, v. 85, 86 
Santa Cruz, fix, v. 66 

fizz, V. 74 

rum daisy, v. 61 

rum punch, v. 91 

sour, V. 70 
Santina's pousse caf6» y« 

68 
Saratoga brace-up, v. 68 

cocktail, V. 56 

cooler, V. 38 

pousse caf6, v. 69 
Sardine fritters (German)* 
iii. 156 

sauce, iii. 189 



278 



INDEX. 



Sauce, ii. 146 
ft la Lowry, il. 846 
allenumde, ill. 187 
almondt for pudding, iv. 

313 
brain, itt. 874 
brown sugar, iL 148 
caper, ii. 156 
chilli, It. 858 
custard, iv. 887 
foamy, ii. 148 
for pudding, ii. 148 
golden, iy. 312 
hard, ii. 148 
hard, iv. 318 
hygienic cream, It. 318 
lemon, ii. 148 

lemon, for pudding, iT. 813 
lobster-coral. It. 236 
madiera, iii. 384 
molasaas, It. 318 
orange, Ui. 388 
piquant^, for roast beef, iii. 

194 
port wine, iii 323 
prune, iv. 818 
shrimpi for baked bass, iii. 

154 
Spanish, iii. 324 
supreme, iii, 188 
sweet, for pudding, !▼• 314 
thickening for, ii. 147 
tomato, for casserole, ii. 

178 
truffle, iv. 115 
Sauces (for fish), allemanda, 

iii. 187 
cheese, iii. 190 
court-bouillon (for boiling 

fish), itt. 184 
cream, iii. 189 
cueomber, iii. 191 
dressing for baked fish, iiL 

190 
egg, iii. 190 
HoUandaise, itt. 186 
India, iii. 187 
lobster, iii. 186 
lobster, iii. 188 
pepper, iii. 168 



Sauce, piquant, iiL 186 
saraine, Ui. 189 
shad-roe, iii. 190 
shrimp, itt. 189 
simple sauce for steamed 

or boiled fish, iiL 187 
supreme, iii. 188 
tartare (for broUed fish), 

tti. 185 
tomato, itt. 185 
tomato tartare, iiL 188 
Sauces (for game), madeira, 

iiL 324 
orange, iii. 194 
orange, itt. 383 

Sart wine, iii. 323 
icardo, itt. 386 
shikaree (for duck and 

wttd fowl), iii. 325 
Spanish, itt. 324 
Sauces (for meats), ancho- 
vy, itt. 194 
Bechamel, iii. 195 
Bemaise, tti. 200 
bread, ui. 201 
brown, iii. 193 
caper, for mutton, itt. 801 
champagne, for ham, itt. 

198 
chestnut, for turkey or 

chicken, tti. 196 
chicken, for sweetbread, itt. 

198 
chive, iii. 197 
currant jelly, iii. 197 
drawn butter, tti. 191, 192 
Espagnole, itt. 196 
horseradish (hot), iiL 198 
madeira, iii. 195 
maitre d'hotel butter, iiL 

195 
mint (for young lamb), iiL 

196 
mushroom, tti. 197 
mustard, iii. 196 
olive, itt. 197 
onion (soubise sauce), UL 

200 
oyster, itt. 199 
parsley butter, iiL 808 



INDDC 



379 



Sauce piquanta, for roast 
beef, iii. 194 

port wine, lit. 200 

roux (for thickanlnflr), iii. 
201 

aoubiae (onion sance), iii. 
200 

tomato, iii. 198 

▼eloutS, iii. 192 

▼elout^ with claret, iii, 192 

▼inaigrette, iii. 192 

white, iii. 193 
Bailees (for puddings), al- 
mond, iv. 813 

cream, iv. 311 

currant jelly, iv. 311 

custard, iv. 311 

duebesae, iv. 311 

foaming, iv. 311 

golden, iv. 312 

hard, iv. 312 

hygienic cream, iv. 812 

lemon sauce for puddings, 
iv. 313 

molasses, iv. 312 

prune sauce for puddings, 
iv. 312 
Sauerkraut, how to dress, iv. 
76 

how to make, iv. 77 
Sausages, ii. 82; iii. 263 

baked, iii. 256 

boiled, with white wine, 
iii. 257 

devilled, iii. 256 

Frankfort, iii. 257 

fried, ii. 172 

Jewish, or Chorissa, iii. 237 

Mecklenburg liver, 111. 255 
Saut^ing, ii. 170 
Sautemes, v. 144 

cobbler, v. 67 

punch, y. 95 
Savory potato soup, iii. 78 
Savory rice soup, iii. 77 
'* Scalding" water, ii. 150 
Scallops and eggs, iii. 172 
Soallop of salmon, iii. 146 
Scalloped asparagus, iy, 63 

chicken, iii. 297 



Scalloped fish, iii. Ill 

oysters, iii. 178 

shad-roe, iii. 136 

sweetbreads with mnshx 
rooms, iii. 284 

sweetbreads, iii. 283 

tomatoes and potatoes, iv. 
100 
Schnitzel, wiener, iii. 280 
Scotch hotchpotch, iii. 66 
Scotch kale, iv. 79 

mutton broth, iU. 30 

whiskey, v. 170 
Scrambled eggs, iii. 335 
Scrapple, fried, recipe, ii. 172 
Seasoning vegetables, ii. 166 
Seasons of the year for eat« 
ing various meats, ii. 22 

for kinds of fish, ii. 65, eta 

of the year for oysters, 
i. 16 
Sea-urchins, iv. 120 
Seidlitz water, bottled, y. 34 
Seltzer lemonade, v. 39 
Servants, attitude toward, iL 
340 

hints to the maid, il. 324 

how to treat them, ii. 312 

the wife's province, ii. 306 

why they leave, ii. 811 
Servants' rooms, ii. 310 
Serving a formal dinner, i. 24 
Seventh Regiment National 

Guard punch, v. 96 
Shad, baked, iii. 132 

broiled, iii. 134 

creamed, iii. 133 

planked, ii. 52 

roe, creamed, with mush- 
rooms, iii. 136 

roe, fried, iii. 134 

roe sauce, iii. 190 

roe, scalloped, iii. 130 
Shandy-eaff, v. 117 
Sheep's head, ii. 30 

head & la Creole, iii. 157 

tongue in aspic, iv. 327 
Shellfish, ii. 68 (see also 

fish) 
Sherbet, lemon, it 884 



INDEX 



Sherbet, orangre, ▼. 40 
Sherry and bitters* v. 116 

and eggt ▼. 116 

and ice, y. 116 

cobbler, v. 66 

eggnogg, ▼. 74 

flip, ▼. 83 

punch, T. 95 

sangaree, y. 85 
Shikaree sauce (for duck 

and wild fowl), iii. 325 
Shirred eggs, iii. 340 
Shortbread, Scotch, iy. 139 

cake, iv. 177 

cake paste, it 250 

steaks, ii. 27 
Shoulder of mutton, staffed, 

iii. 240 
Shrimps, iii. 172, 189 

and mushrooms, iii. 173 
Shrimp gumbo, iii. 97 

sauce for baked bass, lil. 
154 
Shrub, yarieties of, v. 87-89 
Silyer flzz, y. 76 

free use of ammonia bad 
for, ii. 346 

cake, iy. 183 

wedding speech, y. 195 

wedding toast, y. 207 
Simple home Hying, ii. 316 
Sirloin of beef, ii. 27 
Sixty-Ninth Keglment punch, 

y. 97 
Skink, Balnamoon, or Irish 

soup, iii. 32 
Sleeper, y. 114 

Smash, brandy, gin, or whis- 
key, y. 64, 65 
Smelts, baked, iii. 146 

fried, iii. 147 

stuffed, iii. 147 
Smoked salmon, broiled, ill. 

144 
Smothered beef, iii. 228 

meat, ii. 26 
Snails, edible, iii. 180 
Snapper, red, baked, ill. 155 

red, boiled, iii. 155 
xed« soup, iii. 95 



Snapper, red, steamed, ilL 

154 
Snapping turtle, fricasseed, 

iii. 168 
Snaps, ginger, iy. ^03 
Snipe, cooked (German iash- 

ion), iii. 320 
Snow cake, iy. 184 
eggs, iy. 297 
pudding, iy. 298 
Soda, how to be used with 
care instead of baking- 
powder, ii. 345 
cocktail, y. 40 
lemonade, y. 38 
nectar, y. 40 
negus, y. 87 
scones, Scotch, iy. 139 
Soft-clam chowder, iii. 92 
shell crabs, boiled, iii. 170 
shell crabs, fried, iii. 181 
Sole, filleted (& ritallenne), 

iii. 159 
Soleras, the composition of, 

y. 155 
Soi1i>et of kirschwasser, iy. 
331 
of rum, iy. 332 
Sorrel soup, iii. 77 
cream of, iii. 43 
Soubise sauce (onion sauce), 

iii. 200 
Soup balls (matzoth), iii. 
106 
stock, ii. 135; iiL 1. (See 
also " Stock.") 
Soups, thickenings for, iL 
147 
ft la Grecque, iii. 44 
almond milk, iii. 34 
American, iii. 83 
apple, iii. 104 
baked-bean, iii. 82 
bean, iii. 82 

bean and tomato, iii. 79 
beef (French method), IL 

144 
beef and chicken stock, 

iii. 8 
beef bouillon, iii. 9 



INDEX 



2St 



Soups— beef , iii. 10 
tea (No. 1 and 2), iii. 11 
beer ((German method), iii. 

102 
bisque of crabs, iii. 56 
bisque of halibut (No. 1), 

iii. 53 
bisque of lobster, iii. 55 
bouillabaisse, iii. 100 
browned potato, iii. 78 
brunoise, iii. 12 
calf's foot consommS, iii. 

14 
carrot, iii. 77 
carrot pur6e, iii. 60 
cheese bisque, iii. 57 
chicken, quickly made, iii. 

12 
chicken, with leeks and 

onions, iii. 12 
chicken, bisque, iii. 53 
chicken cream, iii. 41 
chicken g^mbo, iii. 30 
chicken gumbo, with ojwf 

ters, iii, 31 
cider, iii. 104 
clam bisque, iii. 52 
clam chowder, iii. 91 
clear, with noodles, iiL 18 
cocoanut, iii, 70 
cock-a-leekie, iii. 66 
Colbert consomm6, iii. 18 
consomm^ & Vimp^ratrice, 

iii. 18 
consomm6 almond, iii. 14 
consomm6 amber, iii. 14 
consomme chestnut, iii. 19 
consomm^ curry, iii. 19 
consomm6 printanidre, iii. 

21 
consommfi royal, iii. 20 
consomm^ spinach, iii. 19 
consomm6 with asparagus 

tips, iii. 16 
consomm6 with Brussels 

sprouts, iii. 16 
consomm4 with cucumber, 

iii. 16 
consomm^ with egg ball8» 

liL 15 



Soups — consomm^ with 

mushrooms, iii. 17 
consomm^ with tomato 

blocks, iii. 20 
consomm^ with yermicelU, 

iii. 17 
corn bisque, iii. 57 
com chowder, iii. 98 
courbouillon, iii. 100 
crab, iii. 96 
cranberry, iii. 84 
Cr6cy, iii. 21 
cream, iii. 34 
cream cheese (No. 1 and 

2). iii. 36 
cream of asparagus, liL 50 
cream of barley, iii. 43 
cream of beef, iii. 38 
cream of cabbage, iii. 45 
cream of cauliflower, iii. 51 
cream of celery, iii. 51 
cream of chestnuts, iii. 49 
cream of green peas, iii. 51 
cream of lettuce, iii. 50 
cream of mushroom, iii. 44 
cream of pea, iii. 38 
cream of potato, iii. 44 
cream of sago, iii. 39 
cream of sorrel, iii. 43 
cream of spinach, with egg 

balls, iii. 48 
cream of turnip, iii. 39 
cream of watercress, iii. 41 
dried bean, iii. 69 
duchesse, iii. 34 
duchesse, consomm6, ill. 18 
eel, iii. 95 

egg, ii. 144; iii. 87 ' 

egg balls, iii. 48 
English beef, iii. 21 
family, ill. 69 
farmer's chowder, ill. 74 
fish, iii. 95 
fish chowder, iii. 89 
Flemish, iii. 68 
French, iii. 69 
French fisherman's choir* 

der, iii. 92 
fruit, iii. 103 
frijole, iiL 85 



INDEX. 



Soups— ^ame, liL 09 

Sil>let, iti. 83 

green-pea pur^e, iii. 50 

gumbo filte, iii. 32 

hard-pea, iii. 70 

hasty, iii. 23 

herb, with Parmesan, iii. 
67 

how served, i. 16 

hulled com, iii. 43 

inexpensive, iii. 83 

Irish, or Balnamoon skink, 
iii. 32 

Jenny Lind's, iii. 41 

julienne, ii. 148; ifi. 83 

kale brose, iii. 33 

leek, iii. 40 

leftH>Yer, iii. 25 

lentil, iii. 86 

lettuce, iii. 67 

lima-bean pur6e, iii. 60 

macedoine, iii. 35 

marrow balls for con- 
somme, iii. 17 

meagre, iii. 85 

mock bisque, iii. 58 

mock terrapin, iii. 05 

mock turtle, iii. 71 

mock turtle bean, iii. 80 

mulligatawny, iii. 85 

nut and tomato, iii. 47 

oatmeal pur6e, iii. 61 

okra, iii. 77, 80 

onion, simple, iii. 66 

onion (Spanish), ill. 87 

onion cream, iii. 37 

oxtail, iii. 27 

oyster bisque, 111. 55 

oyster gumbo, iii. 31 

Parisian-Spanish, iiL 64 

Parisian, iii. 65 

parsnip, iii, 81 

peanut, iii. 46 

Portuguese, ill. 100 

pot au feu, iii. 101 

potato chowder, iii. 07 

qneen* 111. 36 

queen yermioelli, ill. 40 

quenelle, iii. 64 

red bean pnste^ iJd»^ 60 



Soups — ^red-snapper, iiL 05 
red tomato, iii. 76 
rice and tomato, iii. 87 
Russian julienne, ilL 24 
sago, ii. 143 

sago (Hawaiian recipe), iii. 
66 

■ago, without meat, iiL 

87 
salmon bisque, iii. 54 
savory potato, iii. 78 
savory rice, iii. 77 
Scotch hotchpotch, iii. 65 
Scotch mutton broth, iii. 

30 
shrimp gumbo, iii. 07 
soft-clam chowder, UL 02 
sorrel, iii. 77 
spinach, iiL 74 
split-pea, iii. 81 
split-pea (No. 2), ilL 70 
squall, iiL 86 
succotash, iii. 75 
terrapin, iii. 03 
tomato, ii. 148 
tomato bisque (Xo. 1), ilL 

58 
tomato cream (Nos. 1 and 

2), iiL 37 
tomato pur^e, ill. 63 
tomato pur6e with mae- 

aroni, iii. 61 
tomato and bean aonp, iii. 

75 

tomato and green com, ii. 
143 

tomato and green-pea 

pur^, iii. 68 
tomato and green - pea 

pur^, without stock 

(No. 2), iiL 68 
tomato and macaroni, 

quickly made, UL 45 
turkey, iii. 73 
turtie, iiL 04 
vegetable, ii. 141 
velvet, iii. 48 
velvet, mafgre, ill. 65 
Virginia oyster, iiL 46 
white bean, iiL 78 



INDEX 



283 



Bonr butter, dough, batter, 
etc., how recovered, ii. 
344 
Sours — rum, gin, whiskey, 
brandy, Jersey, or egg, 
V. 70-72 
Souse, iii. 264 
Soyer'a gin punch, v. 105 
Spanish onions, baked, iv. 90 
onion soup, iii. 27 
sauce, iii. 324 
Spare-rib of pork, roasted, 

iii. 262 
Speech — after-dinner, v. 179 
after-dinner example, v. 188 
arranging notes, v. 181 
articulation and pronunci- 
ation, V. 187 
at breakfast, v. 178 
at golden wedding, v. 194 
at silver wedding, v. 195 
delivering, 186 
delivery, v. 184 
exordium, discussion, con- 
clusion, and peroration, 
▼. 182 
ex tempore, v. 183 
how to prepare, 180 
Speechmaking, v. 175 
Speech, response to ** The 
Ladies," v. 192 
response to toast, "The 

Host," V. 193 
"The Host," V. 193 
• toasts, etc., v. 196-207 

writing out, v. 183 
Spiced pressed beef, iii. 220 
wine, V. 134 
tomatoes, iv. 259 
Spinach, ii. 214, 221 
as greens, iv. 84 
consomml, iii. 19 
cream of, with egg-balls, 

iii. 48 
eggs, and, iii. 339 
German mode of cooking, 

Iv. 84 
how to serve, iv. 83 
pur^e of, with butter, iv. 
86 



Spinach soup, iii. 74 

with eggs. iv. 85 
Split-pea soup, iii. 81 

soup (No. 2), iii. 79 

soda and brandy, v. 117 
Sponge cake, iv. 193 

cake pudding, iv. 267 
Spread eagle punch, v. 102 
Springerles, iv. 204 
Sprouts, Brussels, iv. 73 

Brussels, saut^, iv. 74 
Squab, ii. 39 

Squash, summer, how to 
cook, iv. 87 

winter, boiled, iv. 87 

soup, iii. 86 
Squirrel, ii. 40 
St. Charles punch, v. 96 
Starches and sugars, ii. 11 
Steak, carving of round and 
rump, V. 22 

A la Bordelaise, iii. 227 

broiled, recipe, ii, 183 

halibut, & la Flamande, iii. 
140 

halibut, baked with toma- 
toes, iii. 140 

Hamburg, iii. 207 

how to broil, iii. 205 

ItaUan, iii. 236 

pan-broiled, iii. 206 

venison, broiled, iii. 321 
Steamed red snapper, iii. 154 
Steaming meat, ii. 26 

process, ii. 193 
Stew, Irish, iii, 224 
Stewed apples, iv. 123 

apples in whiskey, iv. 122 

beef, recipe, ii. 162 

brisket of beef, iii. 233 

button mushrooms, iv. 35 

carrots in cream, iv. 63 

celery (d. la crdme), iv. 60 

chestnuts, iv. 112 

codfish. iU. 127 

cucumbers, iv. 81 

lettuce, iv. 109 

onions, iv. 91 

ox kidney, iii. 327 

peas in turnip cups, iv. 51 



284 



INDEX 



Stewed peppers, iv. 114 

prunes, iv. 128 

rhubarb, iv. 125 

sweetbreads, iii. 287 

tomatoes, iy. 98 

tomatoes and com, iv. 99 

turnips (ik la Frangaise), iv. 
107 
Stewing, meat prepared for, 
ii. 161 

process, ii. 154 

process and effects, ii. 158 

vegetables with meat, ii. 
161 
Stock, for consomm^, iii. 8 

for soup, ii. 135 

from bones, iii. 7 
Stone fence, v. 118 
Stove, blacking, ii. 133 
Strawberry croquettes, iv, 120 

cups, iv. 120 

jelly, iv. 270 

pudding, iv. 302 

punch, V. 100 

sherbet, iv. 320 

shortcake, iv. 178 
Stuffed anchovies, iv. 250 

artichokes, iv. 67 

and baked onions, iv. 91 

and roasted Belgian hare, 
iii. 316 

and roasted leg of pork, iii. 
261 

and roasted pigeons (Ger- 
man method), iii. 318 

breast of veal, iii. 272 

cabbage, iv. 74 

calf's heart, iii. 329 

cucumber, iv. 80 

leg of mutton, iii. 238 

lettuce, iv. 110 

mangoes, iv. 255 

or farcied roast of beef, iii. 
213 

peppers, iv. 253 

sea bass, iii. 152 

shoulder of mutton, iii. 240 

smelts, iii. 147 

sweet i)€ppers, iv. 113 

tomatoes, iv. 102 



Stuffed tomatoes with chicken 
salad, iv. 103 
tomatoes, with meat or 

fish, iv. 102 
turnips, large, iv. 108 
Stuffing, chestnut, iii. 303 
of chestnuts for pig, suck- 
ing, iii. 261 
oyster, iii. 303 
String beans (cream sauce) » 
iv. 41 
beans boiled, iv. 40 
beans with gravy, iv. 41 
Sturgeon, iii. 166 
Subscription balls, invita- 
tions, i. 132 
soup, iii. 75 
Suet pudding, iv. 283 
Sugar (burnt), for sauces 
and soups, iii. 107 
how many " cups " to the 
pound, etc., ii. 293 
Summer salads, iv. 215 
squaah, how to cook, !▼• 
87 

Sunshine cake, iv. 181 
Supper, serving, i. 44 
at entertainment, table ar- 
rangements, i. 43 
chafing-dish, i. 46 
formal, menu, i. 43 
speech, v. 179 
Suppers, varieties and char- 
acter of, i. 42 
Surprise balls, ii. 217 

melon, iv. 326 
Swanenhalse, iv. 207 
Sweetbreads, ii. 31; ilL 
286 
ft la creme, v. 4 
braised or smothered, iii. 

289 
boiled, with tomato sauce, 

iii. 286 
broiled, with stuffed toma- 
toes, iii. 287 
fried, iii. 289 
larded, ft la financi^re, ill. 

290 
scalloped, iii. 283 



INDEX 



285 



Sweetbreads, scalloped, with 
mushrooms, iii. 284 
stewed, iii. 287 
with spaghetti or maca- 
roni and tomatoes, iii. 
284 
f*weetbread croquettes, iii. 
288 
patties (vol-au-vents), iii. 
288 
Sweet pickles, green tomato, 
iv. 258 
pickled pears or peaches, 
iv. §58 
Sweetbread sautg, y. 3 
Sweet potatoes and apples, 
iv. 11 
potatoes, au gratin, iv. 11 
potatoes, escalloped, iv. 11 
potato croquettes, iv. 12 
potato souffle, iv. 6 
Swiss cabbage, iv. 79 
Syrup, caramel, ii. 201 
Swiss cream, iv. 303 

Table, average cost of ma- 
terial used in cooking, ii. 
294 
of wines for dinner, varie- 
ties, temperature, 
glasses, i. 30 
manners, i. 62 
manners, accidents, i. 68 
manners, "Don'ts," i. 68 
manners, eating slowly, i. 

66 
manners, flnger-bowls, i. 

66 
manners, knife and fork, 

1. 64 
manners, napkin, use of, i. 

63 
manners, salt, i. 67 
manners, spoon, i. 65 
manners, wine, i. 71 
speaking, v. 177 
** Tablespoonf ul," as meas- 
ure, ii. 293 
Taffy, plain, iv. 335 
Tapioca custard, iv. 297 



» 



Tapioca jelly, iv. 267 
Tarragon vinegar for salad 

dressings, iv. 213 
Tart, gooseberry, iv. 124 
Tart are sauce (for broiled 

fish), iii. 185 
Tehai (Russian), v. 31 
Tea, ii. 207 
afternoon entertainment. 
(See index for "After- 
noon Tea") 
hot, cold, V. 31 
never should be boiled, ii. 

280 
punch, V. 109 
punch (June), v. 32 
qualities and effects, ii. 

280 
recipe, ii. 286 
Russian, v. 31 
tchai (Russian), v. 31 
" Tea," see " Reception 

with music, i. 191 
Teal ducks, broiled, iii. 309 

roast, iii. 310 
" Teaspoonful," ii. 293 
Temperature at which vari- 
ous wines are served, i. 
30 
Tenderloin of beef, ii. 27 
Terms used in cooking, v» 

212-230 
Terrapin, v. 7 
chicken, iii. 298 
how to dress, iii. 166 
(mock) soup iii. 95 
soup, iii. 93 
stewed, iii. 167 
Thanksgiving surprise, iv. 

193 
" The A m e r ic a n Flag," 

(toast), V. 207 
" The Host," V. 193 
The Ladies," response to, 

V. 192 
The Ladies," toasts, v. 199 
The Newly Wedded," toast 

to, V. 200 
The Widow Malone," v. 200 
Theatre parties, i. 196 



« 



(« 



«i 



« 



^ I 



286 



INDEX 



Theatre parties, arrival at 

theatre, i. 196 
parties, box, etiquette, i. 

197 
parties, calling at boxes, i. 

198 
parties, chaperon, i. 200 
parties, conduct in the 

theatre, i. 196 
parties, conTersation and 

applause, i. 198 
parties, costume, men and 

women, i. 199 
parties, dining beforehand, 

i. 201 
parties, iuTitations, i. 200 
parties, invitations prompt- 

ly acknowledged, i. 203 
parties, meeting guests, 

etc., i. 202 
parties, seats assigned, i. 

202 
parties, seats at theatre, i. 

201 
Theatricals, see " Dramat- 



ics 



»» 



Thickenings, for sauces, 

gravies, and soups, ii. 147 
Tidbits, salt cod, iii. 128 
Timbales, chicken, iii. 301, 

331 
Time for roasting meat, ii. 

190 
Time-tu,ble for broiling, ii. 
184 

for cooking, ii. 295 
Tip-top brandy, v. 104 
** To an Easy Time " (toast), 

V. 204 
Toast, ii. 282, 286 

buttered, iv. 147 

cheese, iv. 151 

cream, iv. 149 

creamed, v. 10 

fried or French, iv. 149 

German, iv. 147 

milk, iv. 149 

mushroom, creamed, iv. 150 

oyster, iv. 150 

salmon on, iii. 145 



Toast, tomato, iv. 105 
Toasts and speech-making, t» 

175 
Toddy, apple, brandy, gin, or 

whiskey, v. 72, 73 
Tom and Jerry, v. 79 
Tom Collins, brandy and gin-» 
V. 81 

whiskey, v. 81 
Tomatoes, iv. 96, 100 

baked with eggs, iv. 101 

curried, with okra. iv. 97 

curried with rice, iv. 97 

eggs with, iii. 338 

French, iv. 106 

fried, recipe, ii. 171 

fried, iv. 103 

green, fried, iv. 104 

scalloped, and potatoes. It. 
100 

spiced, iv. 259 

stewed, ii. 219; iv. 98 

stewc^, and corn, iv. 99 

stun i, iv. 102 

stuftbJ, with chicken salad, 
iv. 103 

stuffed, with meat or fish, 
iv. 102 

with aspic jelly, iv. 105 
Tomato and bean soup, iii. 75 

and green com soup, ii. 143 

and green pea pur^, iii. 62 

and green pea pur^ with- 
out stock (No. 2), iii. 63 

and macaroni soup, quickly 
made, iii. 45 

(bean and) soup, iii. 79 

bisque, iii. 58 

catsup, iv. 258 

cream soup, Nos. 1 and 2, 
iii. 37 

nut and, soup, iii. 47 

omelet, iii. 343 

pur^, iii. 63 

puree with macaroni, ill. 61 

(red) soup, iii. 76 

sauce, iii. 185, 198 

sauce for casserole, iL 178 

souffle, iv. 106 

soup, ii. 142 



INDEX 



287 



Tomato tartare, iii. 189 

toast, iv. 105 

sweet pickles, green, iv. 258 
Tongue, beef's, braised, iii. 
232 

beef, fillets, saut^ed, ill. 329 

calf's, boiled, iii. 273 

sheep's, in aspic, iii. 327 
Tongues, cod, poulette, iii. 
129 

cod, with black butter- 
sauce, iii. 129 

cod, with egg sauce, iii. 128 
Tough meat made tender 

with acid ii. 346 
Tripe & la Creole, v. 3 

& la poulette, ▼. 3 
Truffle, iy. 114 

sauce, iv. 115 
TrufBes aux champagne, iv. 
116 

with eggs, iv. 116 
Trussing, ii. 36 

of quails, iii. 319 
Tubercles, ii. 98 
Turbot d. la cr^me, iii. 151 

fillet, iii. 152 
Turkey, bread for, iii. 303 

carving, v. 25 

hen preferable, ii. 33 

roast, iii. 302 

soup, iii. 73 
Turkeys, ii. 37 
Turnips, ii. 213 

and potatoes, iv. 109 

boiled, ii. 220 

fried, iv. 108 

large, stuffed, iv. 108 

pur^e of, iv. 107 

soup, cream of, iii. 39 
Turnips, stewed, ^ la Fran- 

Qaise, iv. 107 
Turtle, mock, soup, iii. 71 

mock, bean, iii. 80 

soup, iii. 94 
Tutti-frutti sandwich, iv. 154 

Unfermented bread, iv. 133 
United Service punch, v. 106 
Usquebaugh, v. 58 



Vanilla ice cream, i v. 317 

parfait, iv. 323 

punch, V. 94 
Veal, ii. 30 

blanquette of, with cucum- 
bers, iii. 282 

breast of, stuffed, iii. 272 

broth, iv. 266 

croquettes, with mush- 
rooms, iii. 276 

cutlets, ii. 31 

cutlets, breaded, with to- 
mato sauce, iii. 268 

cutlets, plain, iii. 268 

fricadelles of, iii. 272 

fricassee, recipe, ii. 164 

fricassee, iii. 276 

how divided by butcher, ii. 
30 

kidney, saut§, v. 2 

liver pate, iii. 283 

loaf, iii. 277 

not very nutritious meat, 
ii. 16 

potpie, iii. 269 

roast, iii. 271 

roast, time for, ii. 192 

shoulder of, boned, ii. 204 
Vegetables, artichokes 4 
ritalienne, iv. 68 

artichokes, fried, iv. 66 

artichokes, Jerusalem, fri- 
casseed, iv. 67 

artichokes, stewed in 
gravy, iv. 66 

artichokes, stuffed, iv. 67 

asparagus & la creme, iv. 65 

baked egg and tomatoes, 
iv. 104 

baked mushrooms, iv.. 37 

baked pur^e, iv. 51 

baked Spanish onions, iv. 
90 

beans, fricasseed, iv. 44 
mashed, iv. 44 

beets, iv. 56 
boiled, iv. 58 

beet greens, with young 
beeti, iv. 57 

boiled asparagus, iv. 64 



288 



INDEk 



Vegetables — boiled cabbage, 

iv. 76 
boiled carrots, iv. 62 
baked cauliflower, iv. 69 
boiled celery, iv. 60 
baked egg-plant, iv. 59 
boiled parsnips, iv. 39 
boiled v^inter squash, iv. 87 
boiling, ii. 155 
Boston baked beans, iv. 46 
broiled green corn, iv. 56 
broiled mushrooms, iv. 33 
Brussels sprouts, iv. 73 

8aut6, iv. 74 
cabbage, d, la Lilloise, iv. 75 
cabbage and bacon, iv. 72 
cabbage, how to keep fresh, 

iv. 75 
carrots, how to dress in 

the German way, iv. 63 
carrots, & la Flamande, iv. 

61 
cauliflower, au gratin, iv. 

70 
cauliflower, boiled with 

butter sauce, iv. C9 
cauliflower, how to cook, 

iv. 68 
cauliflower in cheese, iv. 

72 
cauliflower with stuffing, 

iv. 71 
cauliflower with tomato 

sauce, iv. 71 
celery, how to dress, iv. 6(> 
celery, how to fry, iv. 61 
chestnuts, compote of, iv. 

112 
chestnuts, pur^e of, iv. Ill 
chestnuts, roasted, iv. 113 
chestnuts, stewed, iv. 112 
common, preparing to 

cook, ii. 223 
coking in water, ii. 209 
cottager's pie, iv." 34 
corn, iv. 52 
corn fritters, iv. 53 
com pudding, iv. 53 
creamed beets, iv. 58 
creamed cabbage, iv. 73 



Vegetables — creamed com, iv, 

54 
creamed mushrooms, iv. 35 
cucumbers, & la poulette, 

iv. 81 
cucumbers, how to dress, 

iv. 83 
cucumber mangoes, iv. 79 
curried lentils, iv. 46 
curried tomatoes with 

okra, iv. 97 
curried tomatoes with rice, 

iv. 97 
egg-plant puffs or fritters, 

iv. 59 
egg-plant, stuffed with 

nuts, iv. 59 
endive, dressed, I v. 110 
esealloped cauliflower, iv. 

69 
esealloped com, iv. 52 
esealloped mushrooms, iv. 

36 
fagadu bradu, iv. 86 
foreign names of, v. 209- 

211 
French beans & la maitre 

d'hotel, iv. 41 
French tomatoes, iv. 106 
fricasseed asparagus, iv. 65 
fried corn, iv. 55 
fried egg-plant, iv. 59 
fried tomatoes, iv. 103 
green corn omelet, iv. 55 
green com soufil^, iv. 53 
green peas, h la creme, iii. 

50 
green peas, to boil, iv. 48 
green tomatoes, fried, iv. 

104 
grilled tomatoes, iv. 100 
haricot beans (lima 

beans) & la maitre 

d'hotel, iv. 42 
haricot beans, with onions, 

iv. 43 
horseradish, iv. 95 
horseradish sauce, iv. 95 
Jerusalem artichokes 

stewed, iv. 66 



INDEX 



289 



Vegetables — ^kidney beans, iv. 
45 
leeks, iy. 93 

leeks, how to boil, iv. 94 
lettuce, stewed, iv. 109 
lettuce, stuffed, iv. 110 
lima beans Ik la poulette, 

iv. 43 
mushroom catsup, iv. 38 
mushroom ragoilt, iv. 36 
mushrooms with bacon, iv. 

37 
mushroom and beefsteak 

pie, iv. 34 
onions, d. la cr^me, iv. 8, 
onions and eggs, iv. 89 
onions for beefsteak, etc., 

iv. 92 
onion porridge, iv. 89 
onions, stuffed and baked, 

iv. 91 
onions, with grated cheese, 

iv. 93 
oyster-plant, iv. 32 
oyster-plant, creamed, iv. 

33 
oyster-plant, fried, iv. 32 
parsnips browned under 

roast meat, iv. 40 
parsnips, fried, iv. 40 
peas, iv. 46 ' 

peas, green, iv. 49 
peas, green, stewed, iv. 49 
peppers, Creole, iv. 113 
percentage of water in, ii. 

99 
pickled beets, iv. 58 
pickled cucumbers, iv. 82 
pickled mushrooms, iv. 39 
pickled onions, iv. 88 
plain boiled onions, iv. 90 
polenta, iv. 45 
puree of Jerusalem arti- 
chokes, iv. 68 
puree of peas, iv. 50 
radish, iv. 95 
recipes, iv. 1 

roasted com (old-fash- 
ioned), iv. 56 
Toasting ears, iv. 54 



Vegetables — ^rules for Cook- 
ing, ii. 222 
sauerkraut, how to dress, 

iv. 76 
sauerkraut, how to make, 

iv. 77 
scalloped asparagus, iv. 63 
scalloped tomatoes and po- 
tatoes, iv. 100 
Scotch kale, iv. 79 
seasoning, ii. 156 
soup, ii. 141 

spinach as greens, iv. 84 
spinach, German mode of 

cooking, iv. 84 
spinach, how to serve, iv. 

83 
spinach, pur^e of, with 

butter, iv. 86 
spinach with eggs, iv. 85 
stewed button mushrooms, 

iv. 35 
stewed carrots in cream, iv. 

63 
stewed celery (i la crime), 

iv. 60 
stewed cucumbers, iv. 81 
stewed onions, iv. 91 
stewed peas in turnip-cups, 

iv. 51 
stewed peppers, iv. 114 
stewed tomatoes, iv. 98 
stewed tomatoes and com, 

iv. 99 
string beans, boiled, iv. 40 
string beans (cream 

sauce), iv. 41 
string beans with gravy, iv. 

41 
stuffed cabbage, iv. 74 
stuffed cucumber, iv. 80 
stuffed sweet peppers, iv. 

113 
stuffed tomatoes, iv. 102 
succotash, iv. 53 
summer squash, how tm 

cook, iv. 87 
Swiss cabbage, iv. 79 
take longer to cook in win- 
ter, ii. 213 



290 



INDEX 



Vegetables — ^tomatoes, iv. 96 
tomatoes, baked with eggs, 

iv. 101 
tomatoes, stuffed with 

chicken salad, iv. 103 
tomatoes, stuffed with 

meat or fish, iv. 102 
tomatoes with aspic jelly, 

iv. 105 
tomato toast, iv. 105 
tomato soufB^ iv. 106 
trufBe, iv. 114 
truffle sauce, iv. 115 
truffles auz champagne, iv. 

116 
truffles with eggs, iv. 116 
turnips and potatoes, iv. 

109 
turnips, fried, iv. 108 
turnips, pur^ of, iv. 107 
turnips, large, stuffed, iv. 

108 
turnips, stewed (ft la Fran- 

Qaise), iv. 107 
vegetable cutlets, iv. 70 
vermicelli, ft la reine, iv. 31 
vermicelli with milk, iv. 31 
winter squash, boiled, iv. 87 

Vegetarianism, ii. 106 

Vegetarian coffee, v. 30 
fruit course, iv. 120 

Veloute sauce with claret, iii. 
192 

Velvet cream, iv. 304 
molasses candy, iv. 336 
soup, iii. 42 
soup maigre, iii. 65 

Venison, ii. 40 
roast (German recipe), iii. 

321 
steaks, broiled, iii. 321 
when in season, ii. 32 

Vermicelli, iv. 30 
(invalid), iv. 268 
ft la Heine, iv. 31 
consomme with, iii. 17 
soup, queen, iii. 40 
with broiled chicken, iv. 30 
with milk, iv. 31 

Vermouth cocktail, v. 56 



Vermouth cocktail, fancy, ▼. 

56 
Vinaigrette of cold meat» iiL 
281 
sauce, iii. 192 
Vintage, v. 135 
Violette cake, iv. 183 
Virginia oyster soup, iii. 46 
Visiting and house parties, i. 

209 
Visiting— after-thought of 
hostess, i. 229 
departure, i. 223 
clothes, i. 224 
farewells, i. 227 
guests* duties, i. 225 
guests* expenses, i. 223 
invitation, suggesting train 

for arrival, i. 210 
invitation to house party, 

reply to, i. 212 
length of visit specified, i. 

209 
servants' duties, i. 222 
tips, 1. 225 

welcoming guests, i. 220 
writing to hostess after, i. 
228 

Waffles, rice, iv. 166 
Waiters at formal dinner, i. 

25 
Wafers, walnut, iv. 204 
Walnuts, pickled, iv. 254 
Walnut wafers, iv. 204 
Wassail bowl, v. 98 
Water — alum for turbid, ii. 
345 
containing salt or sugar, 

hard to boil, ii. 153 
gruel, iv. 268 
ice, lemon, ii. 284 
ices, iv. 328 
Watermelon pickle, iv. 257 
Water-toast, ii. 287 
Water — ^when not to use after 

boiling, ii. 151 
Watercress, cream of, iii. 40 
or other salad, sandwich, 
iv. 157 



INDEX 



29S 



Weddings, i. 230 

anniversary receptions, re- 
plying to invitation, i. 
260 

anniversaries, invitations, 1. 
259 

"At Home" cards after 
honeymoon, i. 295 

awnings, carpets, etc., i. 
270 

bouquets for bride and 
bridesmaids, i. 271 

boxes of cake, i. 286 

breakfast, i. 299 

bridal party at the church, 
i. 274 

bride, i. 272 

bridegroom's dinner, i. 265 

bride's cape, i. 299 

bridesmaids' costumes, 

flowers, etc., i. 272 

bridesmaids' dinner, i. 263 

bride's privileges, i. 293 

cake, iv. 186 

calling on bride's parents, 
i. 261 

cards — after announce- 
ments, i. 225 

church or home? i. 266 

church service, i. 277, 278 

congratulations after cere- 
mony, i. 282 

clergyman's fee, i. 272 

dancing at, i. 290 

date chosen by bride, i. 242 

decorations at home, i. 291 

departure, 1. 285 

displaying gifts, i. 297 

expenses borne by bride's 
family, except certain 
fee, i. 242 

fees, i. 268 

fees paid by groom, i. 242 

floral decorations in 
church, i. 270 

gifts to bride; when a 
cheque is permissible, 1. 
296 

groom, advice to, i. 298 

honeymoon^ i. 287 



Weddings, house, i. 288 
invitations for second mar- 
riage, i. 254 
invitations, form, when 
issued, number, etc., i. 
243 
invitation lists, i. 242 
invitations, recalling, i. 257 
invitations, replying to» i. 

258 
invitations to reception, i. 

245 
invitations — ^train time 

specified, i. 253 
invitations, when they 
must be answered or ac- 
knowledged, i. 245 
kissing the bride, i. 283 
luncheon, i. 300 
maid of honor, i. 273 
marriage license, i. 267 
music at ceremony, i. 268 
music at the house, i. 284 
officiating clergyman, i. 

267 
" open air," i. 290 
processional hymn, i. 276 
proper costume for women 

guests, i. 273 
punch, V. 112 
punctuality important, i. 

273 
reception or breakfast — 
forms of invitation, i. 250 
refreshments, i. 234 
refreshments, i. 285 
rehearsal, i. 292 
rice, slippers, i. 286 
seating guests in church, 

i. 271 
second marriage, i. 291 
selecting attendants, i. 263 
signing the register, i. 282 
souvenirs for bridesmaids, 

i. 265 
souvenirs for ushers, i. 265 
throwing bride's bouquet, 

i. 286 
time and place for, i. 261 
ushers' duties, i. 274, 281 



292 



INDEX 



Weddings — ushers* gloves 
and ties given by groom, 
i. 272 

wedding gifts, acknowledg- 
ment, etc., i. 295 

wedding ring, i. 279 

when to have luncheon or 
reception tea, i. 300 
Welsh rarebit, Iv. 341 

rarebit, iv. 340 

rarebit, v. 10 

rarebit without ale, iv. 341 
West India couperee, v. 69 

punch, V. 113 
Wheat — ^varieties and quali- 
ties, ii. 229 

bread, whole, iv. 133 

cakes, iv. 167 
Wheatena gruel ii. 285 
Whey, iv. 268 
Whipped cream, iv. 306 
Whiskey — American, v. 171 

cobbler, v. 68 

cocktail, V. 56 

cocktail, improved, v. 57 

crusta, V. 61 

daisy, v. 61 

fix, V. 66 

fizz, V. 76 

flip (hot or cold), v. 82, 83 

jul^, V. 64 

punches (hot and cold), v. 
91, 92 

Stotch, V. 170 

skin (Scotch or Irish), v. 
80, 81 

sling (hot and cold), v. 78 

smash, v. 65 

sour, V. 71 

toddy, 73 
White broths with vermi- 
celli, iv. 268 

lion, V. 70 

plush, V. 119 

sauce, iii. 193 

bean-/50up, iii. 73 

tigei'8 milk, v, 115 

wine negus, v. 125 

wine whey, v. 124 

whey, V. 124 



Whitebait, dressed, iii. 161 
Whiting aux fines herbes 

(English), iii. 163 
Wiener schnitzel, iii. 280 
Wines — ^amontillado, v, 154 

analysis of, v. 132 

basto, V. 155 

blackberry, v. 41 

Bordeaux, v. 142 

brandy, v. 169 

champagne, the discovery 
of, V. 134 

champagne, the production 
of, V. 134 

cherry, v. 47 

classification of cham- 
pagne, V. 139 

composition of soleras, v. 
155 

cowslip, v. 43 

currant, v. 42 

dandelion, v. 48 

development and fino of 
wines, v. 154 

elderberry, v. 44 

forming the sparkle, v. 137 
Wineglasses — proper varie- 
ties for dinner, i. 30 
Wine, grape, v. 48 
Wines--Greece, wines of, the 
variety, v. 161, 162 

madeira wines of Portugal, 
V. 151 

May, V. 43 

rhubarb, v. 49 

may be omitted, or refused, 
at dinner, i. 28 

modern, v. 131 

modern, of Greece, v. 161 

Oloroso, V. 155 

origin and history, v. 126 

proper glasses for, at din- 
ner, i. 30 

proper temperatures, i. 30 

replenishing, v. 156 

Rhine, v. 146 

Sautemes, v. 144 

story of the, v. 126 

table of, to be served with 
each dinner course, i. 30 



INDEX 



293 



Wines — the cuvee, t. 136 

the disgorgement, v. 138 

the liqueuring, ▼. 138 

the mise sur pointe, v. 
138 

the vintage, v. 135 

to be served with various 
courses at dinner, i. 16 

of America, v. 159 

of Prance, v. 133 

of Germany, v. 146 

of Hungary, v. 149 

of Italy, V. 158 

of Portugal, V. 150 

of Spain, v. 153 
Wine-producing countries, v. 
131 



Winter squash, boiled, iv. 87 
Wives, ii. 301 

" Woman," toast to, v. 199 
" Women," toasts to, v. 196 
Woodcock, roast, iii. 322 

Yeast — nature and action of; 
home-made and manu- 
factured, ii. 232, 233 
ordinary, and brewers', ii. 
230 

Yorkshire pudding (to be 
eaten with roast beef), 
iii. 214 

Zakouski, Russian, iv. 252 
Zwieback, iv. 150 



p 



il 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



■ iV. 



BOOK I 



THE MODERN HOSTESS 



A Formal Hotel Dinner 



AS ILLUSTRATED BT 



OSCAR OF THE WALDORF 



Courtesy of 

HiGGiNS 8c Sbitei 

New York 



Sbe fitst Course 

HUiTRES-OrSTEItS 

A glance at tfic "boud" ihowi the 
watcf hat been poured, and the lint 
cmuie, cooddiiig of taw oyiten, ha* been 
UTvtdt pracntint the appeafance thown 
ja lUiotntfaMt. The oyiten ouy be ia 
die ihell on an oyricr plate, or wttboot 
iheQi on a tpcdally made plate* Incither 
caie the plate ihould be ^accd on top ti 
a ttrvisig plate of decorated china. The 
oyitcn thouU cHhcr be thoroughly 
chiUcd, or KTvcd oo cnckcd ice, and 
accoo^anicd with a bit of lemon. 
Haneradiih and peppce Muce aw the 
prapcT articia to Krvc with them. 



^bc Scconft Course 

POT AGE-SOUP 

Tlie illiBtntioa for tlic (ccood coune 
ihowi the toup-flaXe lo have taken the 
place of the oyiter plate, with which ha* 
gone the oyster tcA. The napkic is In 
tne, and the flower it antwering its pw- 
poM of pcnonal adonunent. The goblet 
of water, in this and succeeding illus- 
trations, remains in place IhrotiEhout the 
dinner, being refilled at intervals* 



Zhc Sbfr^ Courec 

■OILS D-OEUVILES 
DAINTY DISH 

ma y COQlU of Cdid ^dt ^^hftj lUcb U 

<divei( rwUihci, caiupfif uvkie, an- 
cfume$, etCq or *«"t«l«, croufbdo, 
paita^tti, moaneUaci, houthita, etc^ 
irfiich we KTvcd bok 



Zbe fourtb Couree 
poissoN-nsi 

^rflicll bl *h*« iri^anrf n boiled aj^ Ttw/prt 

and PwUmne potatoot ihowi that a 
&h pUte has Bupeneded tfic swp pUU, 
the loup tpoon Uta tuvjog been lafcen 
away. The flili, if it ii boiled or fried, 
diould have potatoe* terved with it t S 
broiled or cooked in any fancy manner, 
atr/e eaetaobtt ulad. The fiih plate, 
knife, and fork uc taken away (the 
under dinner jiUtt goei n^ them). 



Ebe fiftb Course 

ENTILtE 

li in (hb cue (wccArcad with gitca 
ptai. There nov remaiiu the butta 
iprcader, one knife aod fork. Enti&t 

flii^^flfl ^ made U lifi[ht U p^mMfj an<4 

tliey ibouU be nude in a. fancy wiy, 
•0 at to avoid any carving. 



ZDe Sfitb Courec 

K.dTI-ROAST 

cooiUi of the "pi&c dc rUtenM," 
MfTcd on a iin^ hot pbte. S*ddb* a< 
dthct vmI, mutloo, Uab, ra^aoa, or 
aaUlopc nuv be tacd Cor dik cotnet 
ako tuAcy, gooMr duck, opoo, tte^ 
may be Mtvcd, ucooipiuiicd by one cr 
two vcgctaUMi the iOvcf being fchld for 



^be Tltntb Course 

DESSEILT 

introduces tlie doKrtf wtiicb, of coutw, 
fa tttvtd Accofdififi[ to *h* txktoiu After 
the dtmat, plateir f orkit and spoons «k 
temovedf a finger bo\i^ partly fiHed witfi 
■cented water, placed on a plate on which 
b a 6cAy, ii put before each guest in the 
proper po^on. The guest is expected 
to lift the bowl and doily from the plate. 
Oi the plate there must also be a frtdt 
knife and nut pick (if they are hi the 
mcaa). 



Z\)e Scntb Course 

CAFt— COFFEE 

fonditi dmply of black coffee in sinall 
afterJinner cupst cbeetc, tf served, ac- 
companies thb course. 



CondOlibateb Xibtati^ of 
Aobern Cooking 

anb Iboudcbolb l^ecipcd 



CHRISTINE TERHUNE HERRICK 

BOITOR-IN-CHIBP 

Author of **Tb« Littio Dinner ** ** Tbo Choflng-Dlota Buppor/* ote. 

and oMocUto antbor with 



MARION HARLAND 

of tho Notional Cook 
Book 



AND 



A LI8T OP CONTRIBUTORS WHICH INCLUDB8 MANY OP 

THB PAMOUS CHBPS AND COOKING BXPBRT8 

OP THB UNITBD 8TATBS 



VOL. I. 



Hew Serft 

V« 3. Xodmer Company 

1905 






Copyright, 1904 
By R. J. BOOMER 



THE WCIINCll COMPANY 



"^ 



I 



\ 



r _ . . . . .1^ 



CONTENTS 



Thb Fobmal Dinner 1 

Thk Infobmal Dinner 81 

Thk Formal Luncheon 86 

Thb Informal Luncheon 41 

Suffers 42 

Chafino-dish Suppers 46 

Bbeakfabtb 49 

Afternoon Teas 88 

Table Manners 62 

Introductions 76 

Cards 88 

Calub 118 

Balls 126 

Receptions 176 

musicales and dramatics 187 

Theatre Parties 196 

Garden Parties 204 

Visiting and House Parties 209 

Weddinqs 280 

OORRBBPONDENOB 801 






THE BEGINNING OF THE BOOK 

Ton will tell me you hare a oook-book already, my friend 
the housekeeper. 

Perhaps you have bought the Ooneolidated Library of 
Modem Cooking, because the five handaome volumes would 
look so attractive on your shelves. But you do not think 
it will ever be of much real service to you! The oook*book 
you cherish is a fat, heavy book, to be sure, and not so 
handy as these volumes, but you think it contain! every- 
thing you need t 

I don't think so. More than that, I believe I can show 
you several ways that have not occurred to you in which 
the Library can be of decided value. 

Look at the opening volume, in the first place— The Mod- 
ern Hostess. Tou know how often you are pusded to carry 
out your hospitable intentions. You would like to give a 
dinner, or a tea, or a little evening party; but you don't 
know just how to do it You don't wish to put the matter 
into the hands of a professional, and yet you dread under- 
taking it alone and perhaps stamping yourself a '* back 
number." 

My dear woman, do you think you are alone in thist 
The average American wife begins her household life on a 
modest scale, and when she arrives at the point where she 
can entertain with more liberality she does not know just 
how to set about it. It was to meet that want that thia 
volume was designed. Here you can learn how to conduct 
any form of hospitality, from a house party to an after- 
noon tea, and the instructions discuss not only every item 
of each one, from writing the invitations to speeding the 
parting guest, but consider also the small as well as the 
large purse. 

There is another unusual feature in this first volume. 
Some of us may not be hostesses, but sooner or later all of 
us are likely to be guests. That contingency ia covered, 

vii 



viil THE BEGINNING OP THE BCX)fC 

too. Thrown in, to make good measure, bo to speak, are 
ohapters on the etiquette of calls and correspondence and 
cards all the detiuls connected with social life. Now do 
you see why the first volume is to be of use to you? 

But the Library is on cookery f I am coming to that 
It is very much on cookery. The majority of cook-books 
maybe roughly divided into, two classes: the books that 
teach how to cook— very few of these— and the books that 
teach what to cook. The trouble is that most persons are 
told what to cook without being taught how it is to be done. 
That difficulty has been met and conquered here by devot- 
ing a volume to cooking lessons which will ground any 
unskilled housekeeper in the rudiments and lead her by 
easy stages to the point where she can achieve the elaborate 
dishes described in the later volimies. 

There are three volumes of recipes, besides the one on 
cooking-school work. But the fifth volume introduces an 
innovation in cook-books by being prepared with an espe- 
cial view to the tastes of the man of the housa 

Do you think, dear madam, that he has no interest in 
cook-books? He will be interested in this one t 

Look at it for a moment Most men who know anything 
of cookery rather fancy themselves as managers of a chaf- 
ing-dish. Here are chafing-dish recipes that will foster the 
pleasing vanity. Show him these! 

Look a little further. Observe the directions for serving 
wines, liqueurs, etc. Tour lord and master may think 
himself a judge in this line, but he will be interested in the 
new features presented here, in the histories of the differ- 
ent wines, in the instructions as to the times and conditions 
in which they should be served, in the toasts that may be 
offered with them. Ck>mmend this section to his study, and 
you will bless the foresight which put all this special infor- 
mation into one volume, and so permitted you a chance at 
the rest of the library. 

Tou see now how it is of value, do you not? Oet into 
the habit of turning to it in emergencies, and don't look 
upon it as too good for daily service. Only by making it 
your constant companion can you learn all the Library 
may do for you in saving you thought and labor. 

Christinb Terhunb Herriok 



THE FORMAL DINNER 

Ik point of dignity and importance the for* 
mat dinner stands at the head of modem social 
entertainments. No other form of entertain- 
ment is governed by rules so inflexible^ or pre- 
sents to the novice such a bewildering array of 
difficulties in its conduct If , however, in pre- 
paring to give a formal dinner, it is remem- 
bered that the purely practical details are to 
be carried out according to the strict rules of 
custom, and must not be varied to suit the taste 
or convenience of the hostess, the undertaking 
becomes at once a less serious problem. It is 
in her choice of the viands, the table decora- 
tions, the selection of guests, and in her general 
tactfulness, that opportunity is offered to 
achieve distinction as a giver of successful 
dinners. 

The term '' formal dinner " seems in the 
minds of many people to be synonymous with 
lavishness and display, whereas simplicity — 
not the simplicity of frugality, but the sunple 
dignity and grace of good taste — should be the 
keynote of the ** company " dinner as well as 
that of a less ceremonious entertainment. The 



THE MODERN HOSTESS 



experienced hostess will introduce no novelties 
at her dinners; no chafing-dish courses or 
** surprises ** of any kind. She will not have 
tawdry or over-elaborate menu or dinner cards, 
and, above all, will not place beside the plate 
of each guest a ^* souvenir '* of the occasion, 
which one * * authority ' ' informs his readers 
may consist of jewelry, purses, and knick- 
knacks of plush or satin, the latter ^^ of home 
manufacture, if desirable. " As an appetizer a 
plush handkerchief case is scarcely to be com- 
mended; and really the only souvenir permis- 
sible at a dinner is the flower or boutonniere 
sometimes placed at each cover, or the dainty 
name card. Expensive gifts to one's guests 
are never in good taste, though the custom of 
giving such things has prevailed to a consider- 
able extent in certain forms of entertainment. 
Cotillon favors, for instance, were often expen- 
sive; also the prizes offered at card parties; 
but the tendency now, where favors, souvenirs, 
or prizes are to be given, is to present articles 
of small intrinsic value, but of especial dainti- 
ness or oddity. 

To return, however, to the subject, it would 
be advisable when contemplating the giving of 
a large and ceremonious dinner to consider 
well what it means in the way of expense and 
of mental and bodily exertion. Unless one's 



THE VORMAL DINNER 



income is large and his establishment equipped 
in accordance, it would be better not to attempt 
a dinner of ceremony. To be compelled to hire 
extra servants for the occasion, or extra dishes, 
or silver, is to stamp the entertainment at the 
start with the mark of bad taste. Better far 
to give a small informal dinner, with the means 
at hand, however limited, than to undertake an 
elaborate affair which will not only seriously 
cripple one's bank accoxmt, but which must in- 
evitably fall short of the perfection necessary 
to successful achievement. 

IKVrrATIONS 

Invitations to a formal dinner are, of course, 
correspondingly formal. It is the decree of 
custom that they should be sent out at least two 
weeks in advance of the selected date, and that 
they must be answered promptly; if possible, 
within twenty-four hours. To postpone from 
day to day the sending of a reply to a dinner 
invitation is a serious breach of good manners, 
inasmuch as such delay causes the hostess great 
mental disturbance and serious inconvenience. 
Should a no{e of regrets reach her promptly, she 
has time to invite another guest to fill the vacant 
place; but if the refusal comes at the eleventh 
hour she is forced into a position from which 
any kindly, tactful woman may well shrink; for 



THE MODERN HOSTESS 



she is now compelled to find a ^ ^ stop-gap, ' ' and 
this means an invitation sent but a few days 
before the dinner. The recipient of such an in- 
vitation to a formal entertainment knows well 
that he is a ^^ second choice/' and naturally 
feels a bit resentful. If it becomes necessary 
to fill a vacancy on short notice the wise hostess 
will turn frankly to i3ome tried and good- 
natured friend, who is sufficiently a man or 
woman of the world to understand the exigen- 
cies of dinner-giving and who will cheerfully 
rally to her assistance and do all possible to 
help to save the day. But no hostess should be 
placed in a position so awkward through the 
negligence of a guest whom she has honored 
by an invitation. The object in sending dinner 
invitations a fortnight or longer in advance is 
twofold. In the height of the social season 
especially, society people have many engage- 
ments to fill, and their time is often bespoken 
for days ahead. In order, therefore, to secure 
the company of those one wants particularly to 
bring together, it is necessary to give them 
ample notice. 

If the invited guests are familiar with the 
rules of etiquette, each one responds at once 
to his or her invitation. In replying, the 
answer given must be a definite ** Yes '* or 
** No '' — that is, the invitation must be either 



THE FORMAL DINNER 



accepted or declined; there is no middle posi- 
tion on this point ; there must be no vacillating, 
no conditions expressed. An acceptance must 
not be made dependent upon personal drcnm- 
stances that are likely to arise in the interim — 
this wonld be the height of radeness — and 
finally, it is always best to accept a dinner in- 
vitation nnless one has good and sufficient rea- 
sons for declining it. The two objects, then, in 
sending invitations at least two weeks in ad- 
vance are : first, to eecore the gaests you most 
desire, and second, to have a reasonable length 
of time, in case of a note of regrets, to secure 
another guest. 

Invitations to a formal dinner are usually en- 
graved upon large, square, white cards, but it 
is quite proper for the hostess to write her in- 
vitations upon note paper — ^using not more 
than the first page, and following the formal 
wording of the engraved card. If it is decided 
to use the latter, it is best to consult a reliable 
stationer regarding the details of shape, size, 
type, etc. Those dwelling in the country or 
small towns may write to a leading stationer in 
the nearest city, who will furnish information 
and attend to the printing of the cards. Upon 
the engraved card spaces are left for the in- 
sertion in handwriting of the names of the 
guests, the day, the hour, and the date. The 



THE MODERN HOSTESS 



usual form of invitation, whether written or en- 
gravedy is as follows : 

Mr. and Mrs. James Angell 

request the pleasure of 



company at dinner 
on evening 

■ 

at o'clock. 

7d Protped Strmt. 



14 Holmei Awmu, 
Mareh 81«t, 19—. 

Mr. and Mrs. Andrew White 

accept with pleasure 
Mr. and Mrs. James AngelVs 

invitation to dinner on 

Tuesday evening, April tenths 

at eight o* clock. 

In cases of ** regrets '* the form will be: 



THE FORMAL IXNNER 



Mr. and Mrs. Andrew White 

regret that their departure from town 

prevents their acceptance of 

Mr. and Mrs. James AngelVs 

kind invitation to dinner on 

Tuesday evening^ April tenth, 

at eight o'clock. 

14 Batmm Atrnm^ 
March Zlit, 19—. 

An invitation sent to a man and wife is ad* 
dressed to both ; if another member of the fam- 
ily or a gaest of the house is invited, he or she 
receives a separate card. An answer, whether 
conveying regrets or an acceptance, is invari- 
ably addressed to the hostess, not to herself and 
husband. 

The letters R. S. V. P. (Repondez, s'U vous 
plait, which is a French expression meaning 
** Answer, if you please ") are no longer used 
upon dinner invitations. It is not in good taste 
to remind your invited guests that they must 
not be remiss in their manners; furthermore, 
the words are unpleasantly suggestive of over- 
anxiety on the part of the hostess as to the 
number of oysters and ices to be provided. 



8 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

In giving a dinner in honor of a special guest, 
the hostess may write at the bottom of the en- 
graved card, or add to her written invitation, 
the words, ** To meet Mr. and Mrs. So-and-So.'' 
Or small cards may be engraved with these 
words and inclosed with the invitation. 

In case it becomes necessary to postpone the 
date of a dinner or to cancel the invitations 
thereto, an explanatory note must be sent by 
messenger or by special delivery to such invited 
guest. Such notes are expressed in the third 
person and may read as follows : 

Mr. and Mrs. James Angell regret exceed- 
ingly that a sudden and severe illness in their 
family necessitates the indefinite postponement 
of their dinner arranged for the 10th inst. 

To be compelled to break a dinner engage- 
ment — to cancel one's acceptance of an invita- 
tion — ^is unfortunate; but unexpected circum- 
stances sometimes arise which render a note of 
withdrawal necessary. In this case a note of 
explanation, written in less formal manner than 
are the invitation and its answer, must be des- 
patched to the hostess in the quickest way pos- 
sible. The excuse given for breaking the en- 
gagement must be distinctly stated, and the re- 
grets should be sincerely but not extravagantly 
expressed. One might say, for instance : 



THE FC»MAL DINNER 



14 ilMfiMf Atimts, 

AprU 4M. 1»-. 

My Deab Mbs. Akqell : 

/ regret to 'say that we are by unforeseen cir- 
cumstances prevented from dining with you 
next Tuesday. Mr. White met with an acci- 
dent resulting in a severe sprain, which makes 
it impossible for him to walk. I assure you 
that this unpleasant circumstance and its at- 
tending pain to Mr. White are hardly more 
severe than our disappointment at relinquish- 
ing this opportunity of enjoying your hospi- 
tality. 

With many regrets, I am, 

Faithfully yours, 

Agnes Whitb. 

THE OT7EBT8 

The success of a dinnery formal or otherwise, 
depends so largely upon the people brought to- 
gether to enjoy it, that the hostess must use 
the utmost care in choosing the guests. She 
will not select them at random from her circle 
of friends, with the unpleasant conviction that 
she must invite this one or that in order to 
'^ repay " certain social obligations; but she 
will keep in mind that her first object is to give 
the most enjoyment possible to each guest at 
her table, and that this can be accomplished 



^ I 



10 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

only by bringing together congenial spirits, or 
at least by inviting no one who through dul- 
ness, egotism, or any other failing will neither 
have a good time himself nor contribute to the 
enjoyment of others. The circle should not be 
marred by the presence of even one guest of 
this kind. If the hostess must give a dinner to 
return social obligations, that is a different 
affair, and perhaps a more difficult one to 
manage with entire success ; but we are speak- 
ing now of the dinner in which full play is al- 
lowed for the best effort. 

Six, eight, or twelve are the best number of 
guests for a dinner, though as many more may 
be entertained as the dining-room will com- 
fortably accommodate. The table, above all 
things, should never be crowded. Bodily and 
mental comfort and ease are prime requisites 
for the enjoyment of a good dinner. 

It is well to invite equal numbers of men and 
women; and in seating the guests at table to 
see that people of like tastes are placed to- 
gether. Husbands and wives or near relatives 
should, of course, be separated. It is not to be 
exx>ected that every guest will prove a brilliant 
talker; indeed, a person who is inclined to 
monopolize the attention of the entire table by 
his discourse is not as a rule a desirable guest; 
he frequently bores one or another of those 



THE FORMAL IXNNER fS 

1 — — — - — — 

present, who ont of politeness lends a perfunc- 
tory ear to his '' flow of langaage/' but who 
would much prefer to chat quietly with his own 
immediate neighbor. But, of course, the ar- 
rangement of the guests is a matter that the 
hostess can best decide for herself from her in- 
timate knowledge of the characteristics of each 
one invited. If a guest of special importance 
has been invited, — a traveller, an author, or a 
well-known painter, — everyone will be glad to 
hear him talk, and his hostess is fortunate if he 
proves to be brilliant and entertaining. As to 
the duties of guests themselves, it need only 
be said that each one should remember that the 
success of the dinner depends in a measure 
upon himself. He is not there simply to be fed 
and amused, but to do the best in his power to 
add to the enjoyment of his fellow guests and 
to the comfort and ease of mind of his hostess. 
She will be grateful to him for his pleasant at- 
tentions to her other guests, and especially to 
anyone among them who does not seem to be 
wholly at ease, or who needs drawing out. Such 
a guest is bound to be found occasionally, even 
in a carefully selected dinner group. 

The hostess herself must present to her 
guests a face of imperturbable serenity. She 
must seem as free from anxiety as the cheer- 
fulest man or woman at her board, and under 



12 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

no circnmstances should she turn a troubled 
glance on her servants or in the direction of 
pantry or kitchen. No difference what disas- 
ter occurs or threatens to occur, she must 
* * make believe ' ' it is no concern of hers what- 
ever — ^must keep a smooth brow, an unshaken 
voice, and a steady hand. The host, at the 
other end of the table, is equally unconscious 
of the domestic machinery revolving noiselessly 
about him. 

At large dinners it is customary to place in 
the gentlemen's dressing-room a tray on which 
small envelopes are placed, one addressed to 
eadi of the men and containing a card bearing 
the name of the lady who is to be his dinner 
partner. When this plan is not followed the 
hostess simply announces to each man the name 
of the lady who has been assigned to his care; 
and if she is a stranger to him, he is presented 
to her before dinner is announced. It is the 
butler's duty to note the arrival of the guests, 
to ** keep tab " on them, figuratively speaking, 
so that when all are assembled in the drawing- 
room he may announce the dinner; and both 
dinner and guests, by the way, should be exactly 
on time. 

Upon their arrival, the guests are directed 
to the dressing-rooms, and thence descend to 
the drawing-room. At the proper moment the 



THE FORMAL IXNNER 13 

butler enters the drawing-room and stands just 
within the door ; the hostess, having this detail 
in mind, will turn her face toward him, thus 
giving him an opportunity to say very quietly, 
<< Dinner is served," or simply to incline his 
head slightly. He then bows respectfully and 
leaves the room without turning his back upon 
the company. The host now rises and offers 
his arm to the lady who is to sit at his right, 
usually a woman of especial distinction or one 
who for some reason is to be thus honored. 
The other gentlemen follow with the ladies as- 
signed to them, and the hostess comes last with 
the man who is to sit at her right. If more 
ladies than gentlemen are present, the hostess 
must enter the dining-room without an escort, 
as it would not be in good form for her to ap- 
propriate one of the few men present while a 
woman guest was without an escort. 

THE MENU 

Some writers upon the subject of dinner- 
giving contend that the success of a dinner de- 
pends entirely upon the guests — that the feast 
of reason and flow of soul is the thing — and that 
the matter of the menu is purely secondary. 
While no one will dispute the importance of 
having a brilliant circle of guests at one's en- 
tertainment, it is safe to say that the brilliance 



14 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

of those same gaests would be considerably 
dimmed were they compelled to sharpen their 
wits on poorly selected, poorly cooked food and 
bad wines. The first step, then, after settling 
upon the date of the dinner and selecting the 
guests, is to make a study of the provision mar- 
ket. The great majority of food articles are * ^ in 
season ' ' during certain parts of the year. Many 
of them can be found in the market throughout 
the year, but when out of season are of forced 
cultivation and not nearly so palatable. They 
are also much higher priced, which to some 
people is an item worth considering. Nature 
knew what she was about when she assigned to 
each animal and vegetable food its proper sea- 
son, and any attempt on the part of butcher, 
gardener, or cook to improve upon her scheme 
cannot but result in failure. Therefore, an es- 
sential consideration in arranging a dinner 
menu is to select from the list of food articles 
those that are in season — in other words, at 
their very best. In another part of this work 
will be found tables giving accurately the * * sea- 
sons '* for fish, meat, fruits, and vegetables. 

The experienced hostess will, of course, have 
menus galore at her finger-tips. So many good 
dinners has she given and eaten that the selec- 
tion of the viands for another dinner need cost 
her no great effort; but the woman inexperi- 



THE FORMAL IXNNER fS 



enced in entertaining on a large scale will be 
appalled at the serions problem of making up 
her first few menus. They look so simple — 
" jnst oysters or clams, you know, and soup, 
and some kind of meat, and game and salad, 
and so on." It is easy to generalize; the 
trouble doesn't really begin until one tries to 
particularize — " What kind of soup must I 
have? What meat is best? What entrees are 
proper? What game is seasonable? and what 
about salads and desserts? " It is indeed be- 
wildering. The following points, however, in 
conjunction with a careful study of the tables 
referred to, will be found very helpful : 

A dinner of ceremony will consist usually of 
eight or more courses. These should be chosen 
not only with an eye to the palatableness of 
each, but with a view to the good balance and 
general harmony of the meal throughout. Do 
not repeat articles in different parts of the 
dinner; for instance, do not serve oysters in 
two or three ways, however different in prep- 
aration; nor lobsters, nor cheese, etc. If you 
have more than one entree, let them vary in 
nature as much as possible. 

The outline of the course dinner is almost 
invariably as follows: 1, oysters; or, if out of 
season, some other appetizer; 2, soup; 3, fish; 
4, entree ; 5, roast ; 6, game ; 7, salad ; 8, dessert. 



16 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

This may be varied by the introduction of en- 
trees, sherbets, etc., thus increasing the num- 
ber of courses. 

Oysters are seasonable in each month in 
which the letter ** E '' occurs. When not in 
season their place upon the bill of fare is usu- 
ally filled by the Little Neck clam. Six oysters, 
or about eight clams, are served to each guest. 
Small plates especially for the purpose are filled 
with shaved ice, upon which the moUusks in the 
half-shell are symmetrically arranged. A quar- 
ter of a fine juicy lemon is placed in the centre 
of each plate. To accompany this course, the 
waiter passes small sandwiches of brown or gra- 
ham bread, or dainty crackers. The proper 
condiments are salt, pepper, cayenne pepper, 
Tabasco sauce, and horseradish. Sauteme is 
the wine to be served. A clear soup is usually 
served at a formal dinner. If two soups are 
prepared one should be thick — a cream, puree, 
or bisque. The waiter asks the guest which he 
prefers. Soup plates should be about ten 
inches in diameter ; in serving, a scant ladlef ul 
is the portion of each guest. To fill a soup 
plate too. generously is in bad taste. Toasted 
crackers may be served with clear soup, and 
croutons with a thick soup. Neither crackers 
nor croutons should be placed in the soup be- 
fore it is served, as they lose their crispness; 



THE FORBIAL TXNNER f 7 

tliey are passed so that the guests may help 
themselves. Sherry accompanies the soup. 

It is usual to serve potatoes with boiled or 
fried fish, and encumber salad with fish that is 
broiled or prepared in some fancy style. Cress, 
tomatoes, and radishes may also be served with 
fish. A salad, dressed with oil, should not be 
placed directly upon the hot fish-plates, but upon 
a leaf of cold, crisp lettuce ; or it may be served 
in separate dishes at the left of each cover. 
Olives and salted almonds are passed with this 
course and Bhine wine served. 

Entrees are dainty dishes so made as to re- 
quire little or no carving; they are served be- 
tween the principal courses, and include the 
various croquettes, rissoles, patties, and tim- 
bales. 

One entree, following the fish, is sufficient 
upon a menu, but it is quite allowable to serve 
two or more. If two entrees are prepared, let 
the second be a fritter or compote of some sort- 
Serve claret. 

The roast, or piece de resistance, as it is 
termed, with its accompaniment of vegetables, 
constitutes the substantial course of the repast. 
Boast sirloin of beef, or saddles of mutton, 
lamb, veal, or venison may be chosen. Boast 
poultry — turkey, goose, duck, etc. — ^is equally 
desirable. Potatoes with one other vegetable 



18 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

are usually served; or the potatoes may be 
omitted and two other vegetables prepared. 
The proper wine is champagne. 

Following the roast a sherbet is served. 
This, however, is not assigned a special head- 
ing on printed or written menus, as it is simply 
a light spur to the appetite consisting of a 
dainty frozen punch served in small glasses. 

With game it is usual to serve a vegetable 
salad. This is not arbitrary, however, and the 
salad may follow as a separate course with 
cheese and crackers. Currant jelly, or some 
other appropriate fruit relish, is served with 
game. The wine should be Burgundy. 

Serve only a vegetable salad at dinner. If 
there is a game course the salad usually accom- 
panies it ; should game not be served, the salad, 
with crackers and cheese or some other cheese 
preparation, forms a course in itself. If the 
salad and game are served as a single course, 
it is sometimes followed by a hot cheese course. 

For a formal dinner, two desserts are usually 
prepared, the first consisting of a hot or cold 
sweet dish, such as pudding, fritters, souffles, 
etc., to be followed by some frozen dainty, or- 
dinarily an ice cream. Champagne is served. 

In preparing for a large dinner, the menu 
should be in the hands of the cook three or four 
days in advance; a duplicate menu should be 



THE FORISAL IXNNER 19 

placed in the pantry for the convenience of the 
butler, who mnst needs be perfectly familiar 
with the details of the dinner if he is to serve 
it properly. 

THE TABLE 

While certain rules govern the arrangement 
or ' ' setting ' ' of the table for a formal dinner, 
there is permissible a slight variation in some 
of the minor points, and, at the same time, 
ample opportunity is offered for the display of 
individual taste in the matter of decoration, 
lighting, etc. Fine linen, beautiful glass, china, 
and silver constitute ^^ half the battle," but 
much depends also upon the arrangement of 
flowers, and the candles, lamps, or whatever 
artificial light is used. 

To begin with, the table, whatever its shape, 
is covered with a '* silence cloth," which is the 
attractive way of designating the Canton-flannel 
or felt cover placed beneath the table-cloth 
proper. The object of this is too obvious to 
need explanation ; but it may be mentioned here 
that the less noise — i. e., rattling of knives 
and forks and dishes, or the voices of servants 
in the pantry, or the sound of their footsteps — 
accompanying a dinner, the more impressive 
and satisfactory will this entertainment prove. 
Over the silence cloth is spread the finest 
damask table-cloth that can be afforded. This 



20 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

cloth is laundered without starch and folded 
loosely without creasing — or, better still, rolled 
upon a wooden roller until it is needed. Nap- 
kins also are without starch. The place of 
each guest, the plate, and accessories are called 
a cover. For each cover allow as much space 
as the table will permit — ^not less than twenty 
inches, but more if possible — ^and in the exact 
centre of this space place what is called the 
service plate. This plate is removed usually 
when the fish is served ; but it is also correct to 
have a service plate in front of the guest 
throughout the meal until the table is cleared 
for dessert. This is troublesome, however, as 
it means a constant renewal of the plate, and 
many hostesses elect to dispense with it early 
in the meal. 

At the right of the service plate lay such 
knives as are to be used before dessert. These 
will be placed in the order in which they will 
be needed — the first one on the right — ^and the 
sharp edge of each is turned toward the plate. 
To the right of the knives place the soup spoon, 
bowl upward; and outside of this the small 
oyster fork. At the left of the service plate 
arrange all forks to be used before dessert. 
These lie prongs upward, and, like the knives, 
in the order of their use. On the outside the 
fish fork, next an entree fork; then that used 



THE FQEUiSAL NNNER 2S 

for the roast. The salad or game fork lies 
next to the plate. The roast fork is larger 
than the others. 

If a sherbet spoon is placed npon the table 
it lies next to the oyster fork; but spoons are 
not so popular as they once were, and the 
spoons for a sherbet should be brought in upon 
the plates which hold the sherbet glasses. 

In case the menu includes other courses re- 
quiring knives and forks, it is better to place 
those necessary at each cover at the time the 
course is served. They might be placed upon 
the table at the beginning, also the dessert fork 
and spoon, but this makes the display of silver 
somewhat conspicuous. 

The water and the wine glasses are grouped 
together. The former stands slightly to the 
right of the upper edge of the plate. The wine 
glasses are placed in the order in which they 
are used, the first near the points of the knives 
and the others extending in a curved line to 
the water glass. 

The napkin, which should match the table- 
cloth in design and quality, is folded four times 
in the ironing, and lies to the left of the forks. 
It is permissible to lay it on the service plate. 
At the dinner it is folded once more to enclose 
a roll or a piece of bread, which is eaten with 
the soup. Never strive to achieve a novelty 



22 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

in napkin-folding. This is done only in hotels, 
restaurants, cafes, etc. 

Avoid the use of original menu cards; they 
savor of Bohemian feasts, ^^ stag parties," or 
hotel dinners, and are out of place on the con- 
ventional tahle. Dinner cards, each bearing 
the name of a guest, are useful in seating the 
company. These cards are best without orna- 
ment, but it is permissible to adorn them with 
a bit of dainty water-color decoration or the 
monogram of the hostess. No mistake can be 
made, however, if the ^ard is small, of fine tex- 
ture, and without other decoration than the 
written name. The letter ** E " or ** L " may 
be placed in a comer of the card to indicate the 
side of the table to which the guest has been 
assigned. The names of guests are sometimes 
inscribed in gold or silver upon the ends of 
broad white ribbons which lie between the 
covers, and are connected with the floral dec- 
oration in the centre of the table. A souvenir 
of this kind is used only for the ladies. Upon 
the whole, it is better to omit ribbon adornment 
of the table. In this connection it should be 
added that every piece of textile fabric used 
upon a dining-table should be of the sort that 
can be laundered. Some authorities tell of 
plush, satin, velvet, silk, and ribbon additions 
to the decoration, but such materials would bet- 



THE FORMAL DINNER 23 

ter give place to fine damask, and embroidered 
linens. 

Another feature that is frequently overdone 
in the arrangement of the table is the floral dec- 
oration. It is possible to err here as well as 
in other directions. Heavily-scented flowers 
should be avoided ; those that do not harmonize 
in kind or color should not be grouped. There 
are some flowers that do not ** light up *' well, 
that lose the beauty of their color under arti- 
ficial light; others wither rapidly. These 
should not be used. A handsome centrepiece 
is usually sufficient, though it is in good taste 
to arrange the flowers in several handsome 
bowls or in other low receptacles according to 
the artistic sense of the hostess. A little bunch 
of flowers, or a single handsome blossom, may 
be laid beside each cover. 

The lighting of the dining-room is another 
important feature of the dinner occasion. The 
ordinary gas chandelier, however handsome, 
does not as a rule diffuse a light that is becom- 
ing to the complexion, especially to an indiffer- 
ent complexion. If one 's guests are to be quite 
comfortable in mind they must not become con- 
scious, from looking at one another, that they 
are suffering in appearance because the light 
is unbecoming. If the gas or electric light 
must be depended upon to illuminate the din- 



24 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

ner table, make a study of, or seek information 
upon, the subject of shading the burners. The 
color scheme of the dining-rooni will have some- 
thing to do with this. Little silk shades can be 
made or bought to fit almost any kind of globe 
or light-bulb, and as a rule the delicate warm 
yellows give the best results. Never have a 
red light, unless the idea is to make the dinner 
party look like a group of Indians holding a 
coimcil of war about the camp-fire. There is 
no light so beautiful and so becoming as that of 
the wax candle. It takes a large number, how- 
ever, to light a dining-room sufficiently, and 
there must be handsome accessories in the way 
of candelabras and shades. In country homes 
fine lamps are used. The illumination of a 
table should be, if possible, from the sides — ^not 
from above the heads of the guests. 

It is in good taste to place small glasses or 
silver dishes of bonbons, salted nuts, and other 
relishes upon the table, but it is better to put 
such things upon a side table, to be passed at 
the proper time by the waiter. Carafes for 
water and decanters for wine are also best on 
the side table. 

SEBVIKG THE DINNER 

We now come to what seems to the inex- 
perienced hostess the most difficult and compli- 



THE FORMAL I»NNER 



cated part of dinner-giving. It is at this point 
that she realizes fully the need of expert and 
sufficient assistance. It is always inadvisable 
to attempt a large, conventional dinner without 
sudi help. Almost any other form of enter- 
tainment can be managed ^^ somehow " with 
one or two servants, or with extra help hired 
for the occasion. But for a dinner party one 
needs a cook of unquestionable skill, a butler 
who understands his business, one other good 
waiter, and a helper in the pantry. The but- 
ler, when serving at dinner, wears a dress suit 
and white tie. 

The more conventional, and, at the same 
time, the more convenient, way of serving a 
formal dinner is to prepare each individual 
plate in the pantry. That is, the butler, or 
other head waiter, arranges an individual por- 
tion of each course upon a plate, and placing 
the latter on his tray, which is held in the left 
hand, carries it to the right of the guest who is 
to be served. With his right hand he then puts 
the plate before the guest. 

To begin with, as soon as the company is 
seated, the oysters or clams are served ; accord- 
ing to some writers on social etiquette these 
may be in place before the guests enter the 
dining-room, but it is in better form to bring 
them in afterward. When the oyster plates 



26 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

are removed the sonp is served. If there are 
two soups, the waiter asks the guest which he 
prefers. The soup plate is placed upon the 
service plate, and when the soup course is over 
both plates are removed. If the hostess elects 
to use the service plate throughout the dinner 
until dessert, the tray is not required in serv- 
ing ; but the service plate is changed with every 
course, which means inconvenience and extra 
work for the waiters. In removing dishes the 
waiter holds his tray in the left hand and stands 
at the right of the guest. 

In passing a dish from which the guests are 
to help themselves, the waiter presents it at the 
left side of the cover and holds it low in con- 
venient position for the guest to use his right 
hand. 

In serving, the waiters, if there are two, usu- 
ally begin with the guests on the right hand of 
the host and hostess and pass in opposite direc- 
tions, one ending with the host, the other with 
the hostess. 

Wines are poured from the right, imme- 
diately after each course is served. Informa- 
tion regarding the proper use of wines at a 
course dinner will be found on another page. 
The last course consists of black coffee and 
cordials. After this the finger-bowls are 
passed. These will be of cut glass or some 



THE FORMAL DINNER 27 

other fine material, and should contain a small 
quantity of water. The water is sometimes 
scented slightly with violet. It is also cus- 
tomary to place in each finger-bowl a geranium 
leaf, or flower, or a slice of lemon ; but to some 
people the use of a flower in this way savors of 
profanity. Neither does the lemon impress 
one as being altogether suitable for the pur- 
pose. The finger-bowl is brought in upon a 
small dessert plate covered with a fine doily. 

In some fashionable houses a cocktail is 
served to the guests just before dinner or after 
they are seated at table. 

The simplest method of serving a conven- 
tional dinner is to pass the viands prepared on 
their platters or other dishes so that each guest 
may help himself. The table is arranged in 
every respect as it would be for the formal 
serving; plates, of course, are put before the 
guests at the beginning of each course. The 
butler should have means of signalling to the 
cook in the kitchen to notify him when ready 
for the next course. All dishes should be re- 
moved from the table very quietly, one thing at 
a time, and under no circumstances by * * stack- 
ing * * the plates or setting one dish in another. 
The empty dishes are taken to the pantry and 
thence removed by an assistant to the kitchen. 
Never permit any sound of dishwashing to 



28 THE jMODERN HOSTESS 



reach the dining-room. The table^ when dessert 
is reached, should look as fresh and orderly as 
when the guests sat down. Removing the 
crumbs seems to be a necessary evil, but let it 
be done as daintily as possible by means of a 
clean napkin and crumb tray. 

DINNBB NOTES 

Butter is not placed upon the table at a for- 
mal dinner where the conventionalities are 
strictly observed. 

When carving is done at the table, a large 
carving napkin should be in place before the 
host. This is removed just before dessert. 
Never place the meat upon a platter so small 
as to hamper the efforts of the carver. His 
duties are difficult enough as it is. 

The serving of wine at a dinner, formal or 
informal, though customary, is not compulsory. 
In giving a wineless dinner one breaks no rule 
of etiquette or of good taste. 

Neither is it in bad form to decline wine at 
a dinner if you do not wish to drink it. The 
rudeness lies in making a display of your tem- 
.perance principles by any conspicuous refusal 
when the waiter appears to serve you. 

At a formal dinner one need not feel that one 
must eat everything set before one. A tactful 
guest will not, however, if it can be helped. 



THE FORMAL TXNNER 29 

allow the hostess to be worried with the thought 
that her viands are not to his taste. A little 
busy pretence of eating and drinking will tide 
one over the unpalatable course without giving 
offence. 

When the dinner is finished, a guest should 
not fold his napkin. This implies that it will 
be used again without washing. Neither 
should it be thrown down in a careless heap. 
Take it by the centre and lay it inconspicuously 
beside the cover. Napkin rings are not used 
except in families of limited income^ where the 
matter of a fresh napkin for each member of 
the household, at every meal, would mean a 
serious increase in laundry expenses. 



THE MODERN HOSTESS 



is 
if 

It 
*l 



w 



II 

Ill 



THE INFOEMAL DINNER 

Undeb the head of informal dinners are in- 
cluded not only the less ceremonions dinner at 
which guests are present, but the family dinner. 
In the homes of the wealthy and fashionable 
the family dinner, or the informal dinner, is 
served with almost as much ceremony as a 
larger dinner would be. In the more modest 
establishment this is neither possible nor desir- 
able, and here the service of an informal dinner 
differs considerably from that of the formal 
affair. And yet it has conventionalities of its 
own which must be observed. 

For the small dinner to which guests have 
been invited informally, the menu is prepared 
with the same care that would be given to a 
more elaborate menu, and the order of the 
courses is the same. There will be, supposedly, 
but one waiter or waitress. The soup is served 
from the pantry or by the hostess, before whom 
the tureen is placed after the removal of the 
oyster plates. When served at the table the soup 
plates are not stacked beside the hostess ready 
for use, but are brought, two or three at a time, 
from the sideboard and placed before her to be 

31 



32 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

filled. In removing the soup course, the tureen 
is taken out first. The host serves the fish and 
carves the roast. Entrees, vegetables, and 
sauces are placed upon the side table and from 
there passed to the left of each guest. Either 
the host or the hostess may make the salad at 
the table, and the dessert and coffee are served 
by the hostess. At a formal dinner there is 
usually a hot dessert followed by a frozen 
dainty of some kind. One dessert is sufficient 
for the smaller dinner, and an ice is commonly 
considered appropriate. This may be served 
with or without cakes. When the dessert is 
finished, the platter from which it was served 
by the hostess is removed and then the individ- 
ual dishes taken away. This is the proper time 
to serve cheese and crackers or wafers, if there 
has been no cheese elsewhere on the menu. 
Then comes the coffee served in tiny after-din- 
ner cups. A finger-bowl is now placed before 
each guest, somewhat to the left. 

Where there is but one maid to do both cook- 
ing and serving, everything that can be done in 
advance to facilitate matters should be at- 
tended to. Place upon the table all of the 
knives and forks that will be needed. See that 
during dinner such articles as will be required 
from time to time are in their place upon the 
sideboard or the side table. 



THE INFORMAL DINNER 33 

In regard to the family dinner, it is a pity 
that in so many homes there is no attempt what- 
ever to lend to this meal the attractiveness that 
comes from a dainty laying of the table and a 
certain amount of conventionality in serving. 
It is an easy matter for the honsekeeper to be- 
come careless in these matters, especially where 
her cares are many, and her efforts not likely 
to receive a sympathetic appreciation. But it 
is so much better to start right and to maintain, 
so far as possible, some degree of order in the 
dining-room. At the end of a dinner, how 
many family tables look neat and orderly! Do 
they not rather appear to have been shaken up 
by an earthquake shock f At each place the 
soiled dishes are pushed to one side or stacked 
in. forbidding disorder, instead of having been 
taken away at the prox>er time ; the meat plat- 
ter, which has not been removed to give place 
to the dessert, stands awry before the head of 
the family; the vegetable dishes which kept it 
company are scattered about — none in its own 
place ; while catsup bottles, cruets, carafes, and 
similar articles stand here and there, and 
crumbs, broken bits of bread, knives, forks, and 
spoons, in general disarray, litter every avail- 
able space of table-cloth. Now, instead of this 
higgledy-piggledy way of dining, it would be 
an easy matter, even if the mother herself or 



34 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



one of her boys or girls had to leave the table 
for the purpose, to keep the table cleared of the 
dishes not in use. It is wise to insist upon the 
co-operation of the children in keeping the table 
neat, and in maintaining order during meal- 
time. If a child is permitted to straggle in to 
breakfast or dinner when it suits hun to do so ; 
to sit with hunched shoulders, leaning against 
the table, or with his arms on the table; if- he 
is allowed to shove his chair back noisily and 
leave the table with his mouth full of food, and 
go shouting from the room, without asking his 
mother to excuse him, it will be safe to assume 
that in the family to which he belongs there is 
no understanding of the greater comfort and 
enjoyment that attend an orderly, well-served 
table. If soup is a part of the family dinner, 
serve it as would be done for a small company 
dinner. When it is finished remove the tureen 
and then the plates, the latter not in a stack 
ready to topple over, but two at a time, with the 
spoons carefully placed so that they will not 
fall. Don^t allow an empty soup dish or din- 
ner plate to be pushed to one side, to stand 
throughout the meal. 

Have a clean table-cloth as often as possible ; 
it is a great moral factor, and so, too, are 
flowers on the table, however simple the bunch. 
In other words, serve what there is to serve, 



THE INFORMAL IXNNER 35 

even the f mgalest meal, as daintily as possible, 
and it will add incalculably to the attractive- 
ness of the home. 

On another page will be found a number of 
menus suitable for informal family dinners. 



THE FORMAL LUNCHEON 

While men are not wholly barred from in- 
vitation to the company luncheon, this partic- 
ular form of entertainment is usually extended 
only to ladies. It is a most satisfactory way of 
entertaining one's woman friends, and for this 
reason has grown greatly in favor in recent 
years. The mature woman invites her con- 
temporaries to lunch with her ; the prospective 
bride gives a '* farewell luncheon '* to her girl 
friends, or to those who will be her brides- 
maids; the debutante entertains the young girls 
of her ** set,'' and the young matron brings to- 
gether a group of her young married friends. 

Invitations to a formal luncheon are either 
written or engraved; to a less ceremonious 
luncheon they may be written or verbal. They 
should be delivered at least one week in advance 
of the date of the entertainment, though % 
longer time must be allowed in the height of the 
social season when one's friends are much in 
demand. Invitations to a luncheon should be 
answered promptly — ^just as one would answer 
a dinner invitation. 

The formal luncheon is served as a rule at 

36 



THE FCXUUIAL LUNCHEON 37 

ODBf half -past one, or two o'clock — ^not later 
than the latter hour, lest it spoil the gaest's 
appetite for dinner. In houses of extensive 
means, the luncheon will differ but slightly from 
the formal dinner. The table will be laid as 
elaborately and handsomely, except that there 
will be fewer wineglasses, and the menu and 
serving will be much the same. Where the 
hostess possesses a fine table, it has long been 
customary to have no covering upon it at 
luncheon except the fine, embroidered centre- 
piece of linen, and under each plate the doily 
to match. This gives a charming effect, but it 
is in better taste at present to use a fine damask 
table-cloth. Like most attractive fads, this one 
of eating from the ** bare boards *' was soon 
overdone, and gradually lost favor with people 
who are sticklers for the best form. 

In autunm or winter, on dark, dull days, the 
dining-room may be illuminated for a luncheon 
by wax tapers or whatever artificial light is 
available, only be sure it is a soft and becoming 
light. A spring or summer luncheon is best 
served by the light of the blessed sunshine, tem- 
pered by the lace or silk drapery of the win- 
dows. 

The dishes may be served from the pantry or 
side table ; though it is proper for the hostess 
to serve salads, desserts, or coffee, if she 



38 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

wishes. If a butler is waiting at table, lie will 
be in afternoon livery. A waij;ress wears the 
usual black gown with white cap, cuffs, collar, 
and apron. Soup is served in small cups in- 
stead of in plates, and as a rule not more than 
two wines are served. If but one wine is on 
the table it may be sauteme or claret. If two 
are served, sherry and sauteme will be appro- 
priate. 

In preparing a menu for a formal luncheon, 
it is well to bear in mind that women are fond 
of dainties rather than substantials ; also that 
it is best to avoid too elaborate a bill of fare. 
Do not have too many courses. Oysters on the 
half-shell are generally served if in season, and 
these are followed by a clear soup or bouUlon. 
Some preparation of lobster is always appreci- 
ated by the feminine guest, and this should fol- 
low the soup. Sweetbreads, chicken, or some- 
thing more substantial is then served ; but it is 
best to omit a heavy roast and a variety of 
vegetables. A choice salad should have place 
on the menu, and there should be a dainty des- 
sert and coffee. Cordials are also served at 
the last. Dishes of fine bonbons and the vari- 
ous relishes such as olives, salted almonds, etc., 
are left upon the table throughout the meal. 

The servant announces luncheon to the host- 
ess at the drawing-room door, as would be done 



THE FORMAL LUNCHEON 39 

on a dinner occasion, but there is no formality 
in the order of going to the dining-room. The 
graceful hostess will invite her gaests to the 
table without stiffness or ceremony, and will 
herself lead the way. If the party is large, 
name-cards are used, as is customary at formal 
dinners, to aid in seating the company. These 
cards may be daintily decorated, and are usu- 
ally kept as souvenirs. The hostess on the 
occasion of a formal luncheon wears an after- 
noon costume of cloth or silk. It may be as 
elaborate as she wishes, but is never decollete. 
The guests wear their finest afternoon gowns 
and hats. The hats are not removed at 
luncheon. Wraps, parasols, etc., are left in the 
room appointed for the purpose, to which each 
guest is directed upon her arrival. The general 
rules that apply to dinner-giving are equally 
applicable to the management of a formal 
luncheon. 

The so-called " pink luncheons,*' ** yellow 
luncheons," etc., are easily arranged, and are 
usually suggested by the abundance of some 
flower or other, in the height of its season. 
For instance, in the month of roses, there is 
an opportunity for a pink luncheon, with the 
coming of the golden-rod one may devise a yel- 
low luncheon. The main point is to develop 
the color-scheme, as it is termed among artists, 



40 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

as thoroughly as can be done within the limits 
of good taste. Use as much of the chosen color 
in your table and dining-room decorations as 
you can without making things look ^^ messy '' 
and cheap. Avoid the use of ribbons, so far as 
possible, and of fussy little knick-knacks in- 
tended as souvenirs. But after all, the * ' pink, ' ' 
** green, *' ** violet,** and ** yellow *' functions 
are in better taste for the entertainments of 
very young girls or children than for guests of 
maturer years. 



THE INFOEMAL LUNCHEON 

Fob the preparation and serving of an infor- 
mal luncheon, one scarcely needs advice. This 
meal, however, like the family dinner, should 
be carefully and daintily served, though it con- 
sist of the simplest viands. Only the members 
of the household may be present at the infor- 
mal luncheon, but it should be so conducted that 
an unexpected guest at this hour would cause 
no greater inconvenience or annoyance than the 
laying of an extra cover. The '* picked-up '* 
luncheon that obtains in so many homes, and 
which consists of a bite hastily snatched in 
pantry or kitchen by each member of the fam- 
ily, as it suits his or her convenience, ought to 
be abolished. In its stead there should be a 
regular hour for this midday meal, and some 
special preparation for it, however simple. It 
is worth while for the members of the house- 
hold who are at home at this time of the day 
to meet for a half -hour of pleasant chat, and a 
cup of tea or coffee. The preparation of 
luncheon costs but little extra labor on the part 
of housekeeper or maid, or both, and it means 
much in the way of mental and bodily rest and 
refreshment for all concerned. 

41 



SUPPERS 

The modem supper is not, as a rale, the first 
and foremost object of an evening's entertain- 
ment, but is usually an adjunct to some other 
form of festivity, such as a theatre or card 
party, or a reception. Among the exceptions 
to this are the so-called game, wine, and fish 
suppers, popular among the ** men-folk/' 

Suppers are of various degrees of formality 
— from the delightfully informal chafing-dish 
** spread '' to an affair scarcely less elaborate 
than the formal dinner. It is not in the nature 
of things, however, that this function should be 
severely dignified or overly conventional ; there 
is apparently something electric in the atmos- 
phere of the supper-room that precludes so- 
lemnity and induces gayety, and it is just this 
atmosphere that renders the supper the most 
delightful of feasts. 

To begin with the more formal supper, such 
as would be prepared for an evening reception 
or some other large affair, it may be said that 
in the manner of setting and decorating the 
table, and in the manner of serving, there is 
no variation from the general rules applying to 

42 



SUFFERS 43 



those features of the formal dinner. The menu 
will be elaborate, but not so heavy as that pre- 
pared for a dinner; game, salads, entr^s, etc., 
take the place of the substantial roasts and 
vegetables, and soup gives place to bouillon 
served in fine cups. Oysters on the half -shell 
are always in order, and there may be wines 
if desired. A representative menu for a sup- 
per of this Mnd is as follows : 

SXJPPEK MBNIT 

Oyster Cocktail, 

Stuffed Olives, 

Bouillon in Cups, 

Devilled Crabs, 

Boiled Spring Chicken, 

Julienne Potatoes, 

Waldorf Salad, 

Boman Punch, 

(Wines), 

Coffee. 

In setting the table for the large supper 
which usually follows an evening party or re- 
ception, and at which a less degree of for- 
mality prevails, it is customary to have piles of 
plates and napkins, and a plentiful supply of 
knives, forks, and spoons conveniently at hand 
upon a side table. At a strictly formal supper, 



44 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

waiters attend to the serving, f oUowing the 
rules for serving a dinner, but where there is 
less conventionality, it is in good form for the 
men of the party to see that the ladies are com- 
fortably served, even though each man among 
them must become, pro tern., a waiter himself. 

The illumination and decoration of the sup- 
per table are largely a matter of individual 
taste, but it will be well to read what is said 
on this subject under the head of * * The Formal 
Dinner. ' * 

Do not make the mistake so commonly made 
in preparing a small supper— of having an 
over-elaborate menu. The tea and bread and 
butter of * * Cranf ord ^ ' days will not suffice, but 
there are so many combinations of appetizing 
viands suitable for such an entertainment that 
it should be no difficult matter to prepare an 
attractive menu. Sandwiches, one kind of 
salad, — lobster or chicken, — dainty cakes and 
ices, and coffee are as much as one need have. 

If it is avoidable, never, under any circum- 
stances, expose your guests to the horrors of a 
** stand-up '* supper — that particular form of 
inquisition which consists in bestowing upon 
each victim a napkin and a general assortment 
of tableware which, in the natural order of 
things, he would need at least three pairs of 
hands to manage. There are few objects more 



SUFFERS 45 

pitiable than a man with a fragile cup and 
saucer in one hand, a plate of cake in the other, 
a napkin dangling uselessly from his trembling 
fingers, and not so much as a bit of floor space 
at his disposal for the safe deposit of these in* 

cumbrances. Don't do it. Better have no re- 

* 

f reshments at all than to serve them in this 
way. 

The use of a number of small tables instead 
of a large one is allowable, and, in some cases, 
necessary. Four guests to each table is the 
usual arrangement. 



CHAFING-DISH SUPPERS 

The chafing-dish is a metal utensil consist- 
ing of a receptacle in which food may be cooked, 
and a lamp or burner of some sort for supply- 
ing heat. There are many savory viands that 
can be prepared in a chafing-dish^ and it is 
especially popular with those who live in studio 
quarters or in some other way that necessitates 
*' light housekeeping/'- The amateur in chaf- 
ing-dish cookery is usually content if she 
learns to make a Welsh rarebit or an oyster 
stew; she does it '^ for the fun of the thing/' 
and is not ambitious to shine as an expert. But 
one who is suflSciently interested in the method 
of cooking may learn to prepare a goodly num- 
ber of appetizing dishes, and her chafing-dish 
** spreads '' need never become monotonous 
for the lack of variety. 

The idea in giving a chafing-dish supper is to 
have one principal viand which will be cooked 
by the hostess at the table, in the presence of 
the guests. The other dishes upon the menu 
will be prepared in advance and will consist of 
a few articles that ** go *' suitably with the 
chaJSng-dish preparation; for instance, if a 

44 



CHAFIN&DISH SUPPERS 47 

Welsh rarebit is served, there may be a cup of 
bouillon preceding it, and thin slices of bread 
and butter, and coffee. If one chafing-dish will 
not cook a sufficient supply for the company, 
two may be used. This, however, means two 
cooks, instead of one; and the ^^ cook," by 
the way, must know the part thoroughly, for 
it is unpardonable to bungle before one's 
guests. 

In setting the table for the chafing-dish sup- 
per, see that nothing superfluous is placed 
upon it — even the cloth may be dispensed with 
and doilies used, if desired. The chafing-dish 
stands in front of the hostess; around it, con- 
venient to her hand, are the utensils and vari- 
ous ingredients which she will need. Nothing 
should be missing, for it may spoil the dish 
to have it wait at a critical moment while the 
missing article is brought. It is the privilege 
of the guests to watch the preparation of the 
dish, though they should not do so in silence, 
and with too much intentness. Bright conver- 
sation, a little witty ** guying *' of the ** cook," 
and much good-natured joking are usually the 
order of the day — or rather, of the night — and 
if the ** cook " is sure of herself she will not 
be made nervous by it. 

Any of the following dishes, and many be- 
side, are suitable for chafing-dish cookery : 



48 



THE MODERN HOSTESS 



Lobster d la Newhurg 
Scrambled Eggs 
Omelets 
Oyster Stew 
Broiled Oysters 
Terrapin 
Creamed Chicken 



Cream Toast 
Welsh Rarebit 
Broiled Chicken 
Creamed Codfish 
Creamed Lobster 
Oysters a la Newhurg 
Panned Oysters 



For recipes and many other dishes see Index. 



BEEAKFASTS 

The formal breakfast— or perhaps it wonld 
be more accurate to say the company breakfast, 
for this meal is not as a mle very formal — is 
much in favor with people of the leisure class, 
and also with the artist and litterateur, who 
frequently have considerable time to kill. It 
is an exceedingly pleasant mode of entertain- 
ment when successfully conducted and also 
possesses the advantage, for people of limited 
income, of being as inexpensive an affair as one 
wishes to make it. The hour for a breakfast 
is usually twelve o'clock, but very often it is as 
early as ten ; never later than noon, for it would 
then infringe upon the hours appointed by cus- 
tom for luncheons. 

Invitations to a breakfast may be by note or^ 
if the occasion is one of especial importance, 
by engraved card. It is not necessary to send 
them out so long in advance of the date as is 
customary in giving a diimer. A week's notice 
is usually sufficient. A hostess who desires to 
be quite unconventional may send her visiting 
cards with the line of invitation added beneath 
her name, as follows: 

49 



50 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

Breakfast, Tuesday, October fifteenth. 

The menu for a breakfast may be more or 
less elaborate, but it should begin with fruit, 
and should include fish of some kind, an omelet 
or other preparation of eggs, meat, dainty bis- 
cuits, rolls, etc., and tea, coffee, and chocolate. 
At a very elaborate breakfast such delicacies 
as lobster, broiled chicken, sweetbreads, and 
mushrooms may be served. Potatoes are, of 
course, present in some form. Everything is 
most delicately and attractively prepared. 
There are a variety of pretty ways to serve 
fruit; grapefruit, oranges, and melons all ad- 
mit of several methods of preparation, recipes 
for which may be found elsewhere in these 
pages. 

The hostess pours the tea or coffee at a break- 
fast and the maid passes the cups and other 
dishes. In the essential details the service does 
not differ from that of a dinner or luncheon, 
though there is, of course, a freedom from any 
sense of formality. Men attending a breakfast 
wear morning dress, and ladies wear street cos- 
tume. The ladies do not remove their hats or 
bonnets. The dining-room is lighted by the 
sunshine on such an occasion, and care should 
be taken to have plenty of flowers about the 
room. 

Guests should not linger long after leaving 



BREAKFASTS 5f 

the dining-room, for their visit has been com- 
pleted at the table, and it must be borne in mind 
that one's hostess may have other engagements 
to fill during the afternoon, even though she 
may politely seem to have unlimited leisure. 

The family breakfast is not, as a rule, the 
pleasant meal it ought to be. Most people, if 
asked, would declare emphatically that they en* 
joy their dinner more than any other meal; 
many would stare at the mere suggestion of an 
enjoyable breakfast, reluctant to believe that 
BXLch an anomaly could exist. Yet there are a 
few benighted individuals who hold that the 
morning meal is the best of all. It is difficult, 
however, to make it attractive in the household 
whose members either cannot or will not come 
together promptly at the chosen hour. 

The head of the house, hurrying off to busi- 
ness, snatches an early bite alone, or perhaps 
in the company of one or more of the children 
who have to be at school on time ; the girls of 
the household rise later and straggle into the 
dining-room at their own sweet will; the 
mother, if she is the right kind, is on hand from 
start to finish and sees to the feeding of her 
entire flock. But what an uncomfortable feed- 
ing it is ! Part of the family hurried out of all 
reason, and the others keeping back the day's 
work by their leisurely rising and dressing. 



52 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

The family doesn't really come together in any 
sort of comfort until the dinner hour. It is a 
great thing in a family to have the members 
meet in the morning, if only for fifteen minutes ; 
to meet cheerfully and hopefully and to show 
an interest in one another's duties for the day. 
A little agreeable talk, a little good-natured 
chaflSng, a cheery word of adieu at the moment 
of parting, mean much and cost little. 



AFTEENOON TEAS 

The term *' Afternoon Tea,'* as it is used in 
this country, refers more especially to the social 
aspect of tea-drinking rather than the ** Five- 
o 'Clock Tea '' of the domestic circle. The cus- 
tom of serving tea between the luncheon and 
dinner hours is an unported one, coming to 
America from England, where, among both 
high and low, rich and poor, the afternoon cup 
of tea is an almost indispensable part of the 
domestic routine. In America the six-o'clock 
dinner prevails very generally, and the * * Five- 
o 'Clock Tea " custom has gained comparatively 
little foothold ; it has been adopted by the leisure 
classes, however, and is also popular with the 
college girl, the bachelor maid, the artist, and 
the so-called Bohemian circle. 

The American hostess has made the most of 
the social possibilities of tea-drinking, and 
these are varied and attractive. The evolution 
of the simple flve-o 'clock refreshment into the 
elaborate entertainment known as a ** Tea " 
has been gradual. Originally, the purpose of 
the ** Afternoon Tea " was practical rather 
than social. In the country homes of England, 

53 



54 THE M( 



during the sporting seasons, a ^^ bite and snp " 
were offered to the tired sportsman upon his 
return from field or wood, in order that he 
might not perish of starvation before the din- 
ner hour — ^usually eight o'clock. In America 
the average citizen has no real need of refresh- 
ment between his luncheon and dinner, but the 
afternoon cup of tea found favor, nevertheless, 
and has gained rapidly in popularity. A great 
many hostesses, with an eye to economy, per- 
haps, make the formal tea their principal mode 
of entertaining. In many homes tea is served 
daily at five o'clock; it is a pleasant custom 
and should not be confined to the family of 
wealth and leisure. At this hour those mem- 
bers of the household who are at home should, 
if possible, come together in drawing-room or 
living-room, or on the veranda when the season 
is propitious, and, laying aside the cares of the 
day, enjoy a half-hour of social intercourse. 
It means but little extra work, even in the house 
where no maid is employed. There is no table- 
setting to be done, and no dishes to wash except 
the few cups, saucers, and spoons, and brewing 
utensils that are used. 

Special tables are made for tea service. The 
proper table is rather low and not too large. 
Neither should it be too light, or it will easily 
upset. A form of table much in favor is, in 



AFTERNCX)N TEAS 55 

reality, a series of three or four, or even more, 
tables of graduated sizes, enclosed one in an- 
other when not in use, and called a ^' nest of 
tables/' When this is used, the maid draws 
the little tables from their place and sets them, 
as directed, about the room. The largest one 
is set before the hostess, or whoever pours 
the tea, and the others are useful for the 
guests. 

The hostess, or whoever presides over the tea- 
pot, should see that her chair is one that allows 
unrestricted freedom of movement. The pour- 
ing of tea possesses possibilities of its own for 
displaying to advantage the graces of figure 
and motion. The tea table of the family circle 
is never '* set.*' When the tea hour arrives 
the housemaid also arrives, bearing a tray con- 
taining the various appurtenances for ** brew- 
ing '' and serving, and this is placed upon the 
table before her mistress. Tea-kettles, with 
their little spirit lamp beneath, are made of 
brass, silver, copper^ or other material, and are 
good to look upon. Whatever' metal is used, it 
should be in a high state of polish. Taste in 
the matter of teapots is almost as varied as the 
designs of the teapots themselves, and the only 
advice worth offering is to have the daintiest 
and best you can afford. A * * cosey, ' ' which is 
a wadded covering made to fit over the pot to 



56 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

keep it warm while the tea ** draws/* is another 
essential of the table. 

As to the making of tea, it may not be out 
of place to say here that it is worth while to 
learn the right way. English visitors to our 
country sometimes complain that the Ameri- 
cans make poor tea. Many of them do, un- 
doubtedly. There are even benighted souls 
here and there who believe in boiled tea, or who 
would look at one in mild surprise if told that 
the beverage which has been steeping in the 
teapot on the back of the stove during the whole 
afternoon is not quite as good as the fresh-made 
cup. This sort of tea-maker lives in England 
also, and probably wherever tea is used. 

The American hostess knows, as a rule, both 
how to buy and how to make tea. ' It pays to 
buy the best; the best costs considerably more 
than the ordinary quality, but goes farther. 
Recipes for the making of tea may be found on 
another page of this work. The assistance of 
the maid is not required for the simple five* 
o'clock tea service, even when guests are pros-, 
ent. After she has placed the tray before her 
mistress she may retire. The hostess, or a 
dau^ter or friend of the house, pours the tea, 
and the guests help themselves and each other. 
There is no formality about it. The keynote of 
the afternoon tea should be sociability. The 



AFTERNOON TEAS 57 

only necessary accompaniment in the way of 
solid refreshment is bread and butter, — ^the 
bread cut very thin, — dainty wafers, or delicate 
cakes of some kind. 

This, of course, is ** Afternoon Tea *' in its 
simplest and most unconventional form. Vari- 
ation on a more elaborate scale is the weekly 

* * At Home, ' ' which has grown in popularity with 
many hostesses. Here the service is much like 
that described above, though it is permissible 
to add something more to the menu. For this 
form of entertainment, cards of invitation (see 
** Invitations *') are issued early in the season. 

* * At Home ' ' days may be weekly, for a period 
of several weeks, or may extend throughout the 
social season. Upon these occasions the tea 
may be made or poured by the hostess herself, 
or it may be brought in by the maid and passed 
upon a tray to the guests. Most hostesses, 
however, delight in their pretty table and its 
dainty appointments, and would be loth to 
relegate the pouring of the tea to the kitchen 
or pantry. There is usually no table set for 
this simpler ** At Home,*' but, where tea is 
poured in the drawing-room, the maid brings 
the tray, as described before, and places it upon 
the table. Late-comers must, of course, have 
freshly made tea ; the tea-ball, a tiny metal con- 
trivance for making tea in the cup as it is re- 



58 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

quired, without using the teapot, will be found 
a great convenience. The assistance of the 
maid may be required where many guests are 
present, but such is the nature of the informal 
'* Afternoon Tea,*' even on this larger scale, 
that her services, after arranging the table, 
may be dispensed with if desired. She should 
stay within call, however, in case she is needed. 

The menu may include both tea and coffee or 
tea and chocolate. There may be one or two 
kinds of dainty sandwiches, and baskets or 
plates of fancy cakes. Plates and napkins need 
not be offered unless the hostess prefers. A 
plate containing thin slices of lemon should be 
upon the tray for those who prefer their tea 
a la Russe — or in the so-called ** Russian '* 
style. A dish of fine bonbons may also be 
passed. Do not be tempted, however, in pre- 
paring a menu for the regular ** At Home '* 
occasion, to extend it beyond the limits here 
prescribed. Bouillon, oysters, salads, ices, 
fruit, etc., are not expected, and are certainly 
not in good taste. 

The really formal ** Tea '* is hardly a 
** Tea '* at all, though the cards of invitation 
indicate to the prospective guests that the 
** beverage that cheers *' will be dispensed 
upon the date and at the hours mentioned. A 
hostess may elect to give two or more of these 



AFTERNOON TEAS 59 

elaborate " Teas " during the social season. 
Where her circle of friends and acquaintances 
is very large, she may invite part of them for 
one date and others for another. In this way 
a number of social obligations may be ** paid 
oflP ' ' with comparative ease and economy. The 
** Tea *' of this sort, however, is in reality an 
afternoon reception. The hostess invites one 
or more of her women friends, usually those of 
the younger set, to assist her. Women attend- 
ing a daytime reception of this kind wear street 
or carriage costume, and the hostess and her 
assistants are gowned in their handsomest re- 
ception attire, which is never, by the way; 
decollete. Men attending a ** Tea '* do not 
wear evening clothes. The hostess stands at 
the drawing-room door to receive her guests. 
A handshake, a few pleasant words, a sugges- 
tion to each that she go to the dining-room and 
have a cup of tea, are all that is necessary. 
Guests meet acquaintances among those assem- 
bled and do not look to their hostess for any 
special attention. A ** Tea *' of this size dif- 
fers from the smaller affairs in the manner of 
serving refreshments. The large number of 
guests precludes the possibility of pouring and 
serving tea and dispensing other refreshments 
in the drawing-rooms, and therefore it becomes 
necessary to lay the table in the dining-room 



db THE MODERN HOSTESS 

or in any other suitable room connected with 
the drawing-room. The table wears its finest 
damask; at one end is placed, usually, the tea 
service, and at the other a chocolate or coffee 
service. Friends of the hostess preside over 
these beverages, and waitresses are at hand to 
pass refreshments and to see that the table is 
kept fresh and in perfect order throughout the 
afternoon. 

The menu for a * * Tea * ' of this kind may in- 
clude bouillon, two or more kinds of the most 
delicate sandwiches, cakes, bonbons, such rel- 
ishes as salted almonds and olives, and tea, 
coffee, and chocolate. A punch or ice is also 
permissible. Artificial lighting of the rooms is 
customary for the occasion. 

There is still another degree of " Tea,'* but 
it is so very remotely connected with the idea 
of tea-drinking that it scarcely deserves a place 
in this chapter. Properly speaking, it is an 
afternoon reception on a very elaborate scale. 
* * Tea, " to be sure, may be found in a modest 
comer of the menu, but the latter includes so 
much beside that it is more like a luncheon or 
supper menu. Waiters attend to all serving, 
and there is no pouring of tea by hostess or 
friends; nor do the guests busy themselves in 
attending to the wants of one another. The 
" Afternoon Tea '* proi)er is characterized, as 



AFTERNOON TEAS 6f 



has been said before, by an atmosphere of sim- 
plicity, informality, and cosiness. 

A form of * * Tea ' ' much in favor a few years 
ago, and not yet relegated altogether to the 
limbo of discarded fads, is the pink, bine, or 
yellow Tea — or whatever the scheme of decora- 
tion may be. There is no reason why the color- 
scheme ' ^ Tea ' ' should not hold its own so far 
as the attractiveness of decoration is concerned, 
for it really admits of very pretty effects when 
artistically conceived and executed. One must 
consider, however, in planning a pink or yellow 
Tea, not only the table decoration and the har- 
mony of the viands in point of color, but must 
not forget the predominating colors of the walls 
and furnishings of the diniug-room. Unless 
one is sure of her eye for color combinations, 
or has a friend of artistic tastes who will ad- 
vise her, it would be best not to attempt this 
particular form of entertainment. 



TABLE MANNERS 

THE COERBCT POSITION AT TABLE 

The proper position at table is to sit erect 
with the chest or waist just a few inches from 
the table. You should never lounge or slip 
down into your chair ; neither should you reach 
forward to decrease the distance between your 
mouth and the food set before you, as if you 
begrudged the distance. 

It is customary for gentlemen to remain 
standing until the hostess is seated, and this 
custom should be regarded, whether the hostess 
is the leader of society or his mother. 

It is highly improper to support the elbows 
by placing them on the table, to say nothing of 
the fact that it is extremely ungraceful, and no 
condition of intimacy should permit this; 
neither is it permissible to play with the knives, 
forks, or spoons, make sketches on the cloth 
with the handle of a spoon, or clink the glasses 
together. During moments when not engaged 
in the act of eating, the hands should lie quietly 
in the lap, and all actions should simulate as 
far as possible the repose of bearing which 
alone marks the well-bred man or woman. 

62 



TABLE MANNERS 63 

It is well to remember, in all of these matters 
pertaining to etiquette, that while you may not 
be noticed particularly if you do everything in 
a proper and graceful manner, you are sure to 
arouse adverse comment when you deviate from 
the correct way of conducting yourself. 

THE NAPKIN 

This article is not intended to take the place 
of the * ' bib ' ' of babyhood, and for that reason 
she uld not be spread out over the lap or chest ; 
and, above all things, it must not be inserted 
at one comer into the top of the waistcoat or 
collar. While it is not for ornament but in- 
tended for use, it is sufficient and proper to 
lay it across the knees, unfolding it but once. 
When eating at a restaurant, or at the board 
of a friend, you are not supposed necessarily 
to carefully fold it into the original creases last 
produced by the laundry. In most American 
homes napkins are used but once before being 
washed, and for that reason it is entirely 
proper, when arising from the table, to place it 
beside your plate, unfolded. On the other 
hand, there are occasions on which it is well to 
make an exception to this rule ; as, for instance, 
if, while visiting a friend for a day or two, you 
notice the host or hostess fold his or her napkin 
carefully, you may be pretty sure that it is one 



64 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

of the households where a fresh napkin is not 
supplied at every meal. 

KNIFE AND FOBK 

So much has been written about the man who 
conveys food to his mouth with his knife that 
it is hardly necessary to point out that it is not 
proper. The knife is, however, used exclusively 
for cutting the food, and should always be held 
in the right hand. Likewise the fork is found 
in the right hand when the knife is not in use, 
and should not be made to take the place of a 
spoon, except for such dishes as peas, beans, 
etc. 

It is equally bad manners to turn the fork 
into a shovel by loading it with a combination 
of various foods and then transporting the 
whole to the mouth; that is as bad as mashing 
food in between the prongs of the fork, holding 
both knife and fork in the hand, high up in the 
air, while your plate is being passed for a 
second helping, or, what is equally bad, plac- 
ing the knife and fork on the cloth beside the 
plate, or with the tips of each on the plate-edge, 
when not actively engaged in eating. The 
proper way, of course, when you are not using 
either your knife or fork, is to place them on 
the plate together, with their tips in the centre 
of the plate and the handles on the edge. 



TABLE BSANNERS 65 

It is difficult to enumerate all of the dishes 
which shonld be eaten with the fork. Its use 
i8 not confined, however, to meats, vegetables, 
and fish, but takes in ices, melons, salads, and 
frozen puddings. Terrapin and lobster, as 
well as oysters and clams are fork foods, and 
you should never cut your lettuce with a knife. 
Fold the leaves up with your fork and lift them 
to your mouth. 

THE SPOON 

Ton should never drink your coffee, tea, or 
bouillon from a spoon, or allow the spoon, 
which is furnished simply for the purpose of 
stirring or testing the temperature of the con- 
tents of your cup, to remain in it. This is as 
bad as to lift a spoon full of soup and attempt 
to cool it by blowing upon it, which is, as we 
all know, a habit taught in the nursery. Here 
may also be mentioned that the proper way to 
dip soup from the plate is away from you in- 
stead of toward you, and that it should be taken 
from the side of the spoon rather than from 
the end. It is highly improper to tip your 
soup plate to get that last half -spoonful. 

Numerous foods must, of course, be eaten 
with a spoon, such as fruit salads, oranges and 
grapefruit, cereals, hot puddings with sauces, 
etc. 



66 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

THE FINGEB-BOWL 

The finger-bowl is used at the end of a meal 
and at the end of a fruit course. When using 
the bowl, it is not proper to put both hands in 
at the same time, but one at a time, nor should 
one splash up the water in an effort to wash 
the entire hand. It is supposed that the tips 
of the fingers only need cleansing, and a little 
rubbing of the tips together will be sufficient. 
Then they should be dried with the napkin on 
the knees. 

DELIBERATION AND NATURALNESS 

You should always eat slowly, both for the 
sake of your digestion and for appearances. 
One should imitate Gladstone, who made it a 
rule to chew each mouthful twenty-five times. 
This suggestion is a good one for the health, 
and even though our intention in this article 
is not to give hygienic directions, this sugges- 
tion is made here for its value to the physical 
comfort of the diner. The other side of the 
question is that it comports more with your 
personal dignity to eat slowly. When you get 
into the habit of eating slowly you are more 
likely to avoid the more serious blunders, such 
as sucking up a liquid from a spoon, scraping 
the bottom of a plate for the last particle of 



TABLE MANNERS €f 

any dish, or, as one writer has aptly put it, 
* * drumming on a knife-blade in order to distrib- 
ute salt on meat or vegetables." Above all, it is 
pretty hard to talk well when your mouth is 
continually full of large portions of food, and 
a man or woman is only considered a good 
diner-out if he can find time to converse intelli- 
gently and easily, and not as though he be- 
grudged the absence of constant mouthfuls of 
food. 

Do not, when salting meats or vegetables, 
first place a quantity of salt on the cloth beside 
your plate. It should always be placed on the 
edge of the plate — and do not for the purpose 
of getting it there run your knife-point into the 
large salt receptacle, but use the small salt 
spoon, which will be found in the salt recep- 
tacle. Then do not use your thumb and fore- 
finger to distribute it, but use only the little salt 
that will adhere to the prongs of the fork or a 
little on the knife-point. You will find that a 
little is sufficient to flavor any dish. Besides, 
the average home at which you will dine has 
a cook who is supposed to know how to season 
dishes. 

If you should want particularly fco eat a last 
morsel of any- one dish that you find on your 
plate, don't push it on your fork with the tip 
of your finger. If you must have it, it is better 



68 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

to use a bit of bread or the knife-point instead 
of the finger. 

It is supposed, when you lift food from the 
plate with your fork or spoon, that you want 
to get it to your mouth, and for that reason 
you should not arrest the mouthful in question 
in mid-air while you go on with the conversa- 
tion. 

AOCroENTS 

Accidents will occur at the best-regulated 
dinner tables as well as in families. When they 
occur, however, it is best not to call particular 
attention to yourself too strongly by too pro- 
fuse apologies, and, above all, ** don't keep it 
up. ' ' A simple appealing glance to the hostess 
and a *' Pray, forgive me, I am very awkward,** 
etc., is sufficient. The accomplished hostess 
will endeavor to open the conversation at once 
on a new topic, as if nothing had happened. If 
the inevitable has happened to you, however, 
in the form of a bit of grease or something 
similar which has dropped to your apparel, you 
must not remove it with a knife, but the end of 
your napkin must suffice. 

A FEW don'ts 

If you are a guest at a formal dinner or 
luncheon or elaborate breakfast, do not ask for 
a second helping to any of the dishes. The re- 



TABLE MANNERS 69 

verse is true at the informal friendly dinner, 
for there the request for a second helping is 
a compliment to the hostess. 

Do not, if you are host or hostess at a formal 
meal, cause delay by requesting guests to take 
a second helping of any one dish that has al- 
ready been served; and here the reverse is 
again true ; for at the little informal dinner the 
hostess may invite the guest to have a second 
helping. 

Never take a bite of the dinner roll which you 
will find in the napkin. You are supposed to 
eat of it, of course, but should break it into 
pieces the size of a mouthful, and then eat it 
as you break it off. Cake may be eaten in the 
same way, or with the aid of a fork. 

Never place a slice of bread on the cloth be- 
side your plate and spread it all over with but- 
ter and then cut it. It is not fair to the cloth, 
and besides, you will find a bread-and-butter 
plate provided for that purpose. Bread is to 
be eaten by breaking off small pieces and then 
buttering them just before placing them in the 
mouth. 

Don't bite into a whole peach at table the 
same as you would if you were out under the 
tree. It and similar fruits should be quartered, 
peeled, and cut into mouthfuls. When eating 
grapes don't blow the pits into the plate and 



70 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



all over the table. They should be dropped 
into the hand from the mouth and placed on the 
plate. 

Do not take chicken-bones and chops into the 
fingers and eat from them as though you had 
a roasting ear. There is no other way in the 
case of the com, but if you are not clever 
enough to cut away most of the chicken, game, 
or chop from the bone that has fallen to your 
lot, you ought to be made to do without such 
morsels. 

Asparagus comes in for another don't. It 
should not be taken up with the fingers. That 
part which you can eat with a relish should be 
cut off with the fork, and you will thus avoid the 
uninviting spectacle of an open mouth hoping 
to catch the good end of a long stem as it is 
hoisted ready to be dropped. 

Do not commit the reprehensible act of push- 
ing away your plate when you are through with 
the meal or when you have finished a course, 
and do not brush up the crumbs around your 
plate. These are the faults of the thoughtless, 
*and one should not show himself absent-minded 
at dinner. 

WINES 

At a formal dinner the servant is supposed 
to replenish the wineglasses from time to time, 
and he generally does so under direction of the 



TABLE MANNERS 71 

host, who must keep his eyes open to instruct, 
especially in regard to the glass of any partic- 
ular guest whom the servant may have over- 
looked. Guests at a large dinner never ask to 
be helped to wine* Should the guest not desire 
a second glass, a simple '^ No, thank you " is 
sufficient. 

The host is privileged, however, at an infor- 
mal dinner, to ask a guest to help himself to 
wine, and if the wine is on the table, a guest 
may help himself without asking permission, 
except if the guest be a woman. Women guests 
wait for the gentleman beside them to fill the 
glasses, or look to the servants to do this. 

IK THE WAT OF BEMINDEBS 

Upon the arrival of the first guests the host 
and hostess should be ready in the drawing- 
room to greet them cordially as they arrive. 
They must be at particular pains to see that 
their guests are introduced to each other. 
Should any of the guests be more than fifteen 
minutes late, the hostess may order dinner 
served. 

Guests will find their seats by moving about 
the table until they find the cards bearing their 
names at the covers so designated for them. 

Late arrivals at a formal dinner present their 
apologies to the hostess, who does not arise 



72 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

— — ^— ■ I I ■ ■ Ill ^— ^— H^i^W^^ 

except in the case of a woman gnest. The 
host, however, partly to turn attention away 
from the interruption of the late arrival, rises 
and assists in seating the delinquent. In such 
cases, however, the dinner is not delayed to 
enable the late-comer to catch up, but he is ex- 
pected to take it up at the course that is then 
being served, or, if about to serve the next 
course, he waits. 

At most formal dinners it is customary for 
the ladies to take their coffee or liqueurs in the 
drawing-room. The signal for this movement 
is made just before coffee is served by the host- 
ess, who catches the eye of the lady at the right 
of the host, and rises. At this signal all the 
guests rise, the men standing aside to let the 
ladies pass easily. 

The men then gather around the table with 
their host for a twenty or twenty-five minute 
enjoyment of coffee, wine, and cigars, at the 
end of which the host proposes to join the 
ladies, which is done at once. At less formal 
affairs it is customary and permissible for the 
ladies to remain with the gentlemen in the 
dining-room while they enjoy their coffee and 
cigars. 

THE GUEST 

Promptness in arriving should be the watch- 
word of the would-be diner. It is his duty to 



TABLE MANNERS 73 

arrive within fifteen minutes of the hour set 
in the invitation. One thing, however, he must 
avoid in his efforts to get there on time. He 
must not arrive even one minute before the 
time indicated. Few things may provoke more 
annoyance on the part of the hostess than the 
too-previous guest The hostess is expected in 
the drawing-room promptly on the hour set, 
but she may not be ready for you before the 
exact hour, And a too-previous arrival may do 
much to disturb the even temperament of the 
hostess. 

THE QUEST AT TABLE 

When once seated in the dining-room with 
the lady ^th whom you are exi)ected to cast 
your lot ^ring the dinner, you are expected to 
do more than eat. A special short chapter 
will be found in another part of this volume, 
which speaks of the proper use to be made of 
the knives, forks, etc. A word may be spoken 
here, however, in regard to the general bear- 
ing. One should not help himself too liberally 
to the various courses, or make flattering and 
audible comments upon their quality. Neither 
should any dish be refused, even if the guest is 
dieting and knows the particular dish will be 
harmful to his digestion or not quite to his 
taste; for the hostess may observe and be 



74 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

thrown into needless anxiety as to the thorough- 
ness of the enjoyment' she is distributing — or 
the adverse comment of other diners may be 
excited. Better far, take a little of each dish 
and pretend to relish it. 

The fact that a gentleman takes a lady in to 
dinner does not necessarily indicate that his 
entire conversation and attention must be 
directed at her exclusively. A gentleman is 
expected to entertain his lady partner to the 
best of his ability, but not to the exclusion of 
the others near at hand, nor need he deny him- 
self the pleasure of general conversation alto- 
gether. 

Guests may leave as soon as dinner is over — 
it would not be polite to leave before; and it 
would be better to remain where possible for at 
least ten minutes or such a matter, for in the 
large centres many entertainments may occur 
on the same evening, and some of the diners 
may be in great demand at other functions ; so 
that ten minutes in the drawing-room is suffi- 
cient courtesy, and, with proper explanations, 
the busy guest may go on to the next function. 

ADIEUX TO THE HOSTESS 

Personal leave-taking of the hostess must not 
be omitted. Even in numerous company, or if 
the hostess is much engaged at the moment, the 



TABLE MANNERS 75 

retiring gaest mnst seek her out, and with 
graceful thanks for her hospitality, hid her 
adieu. The same is true of the host, except 
that, having made the graceful speech to his 
wife, it need not be repeated so impressively 
to him. One is also exi)ected to bid adieu to 
friends who may be among the company, but 
not necessarily to new acquaintances; if they 
be at a distance, a simple bow is sufficient. In 
the case of a gentleman, however, he will of 
course cross the room, if need be, to give fare- 
well to the lady who gave him her arm at 
dinner. 



INTRODUCTIONS 

An effective introduction is rare; the cere- 
mony, though a slight one, is yet full of im- 
portance, and, in the varied phases that sur- 
round it, one finds opportunity and need for all 
the tact and grace at her command. No elab- 
orate formula need be studied; the simplest 
form is always the best; and as the object in 
view is that the unacquainted parties may 
learn each other's names, for humanity's sake 
avoid the common fault of sliding the names 
in a half-articulate murmur — as if they were 
not worth mentioning — ^but (to paraphrase 0. 
W. Hohnes) 

'* Speak clearly if you speak at all ; 
Carve every name before you let it fall '* ; 

and your guests will not need to begin a con- 
versation by begging each other's pardon for 
not * * catching the name. ' ' 

Introducing men and women, the gentleman 
is presented to the lady, and her name should 
be mentioned first — ' * Mrs. Roberts, let me pre- 
sent Mr. Grey "; when a man makes the intro- 
duction, he may say, * * Miss Trent, allow me to 
present my friend Mr. Sanders, who is desirous 

76 



INTRODUCTIONS 77 



to know you,'* thus conveying a delicate com- 
pliment. 

When there is marked difference in the ages, 
the younger woman is presented to the older, 
or the unmarried woman to the matron; a 
young man to a venerable gentleman, and a 
plain member of society to a titled or distin- 
guished personage. On ordinary occasions 
merely to mention the names is sufficient. 
** Mrs. Vernon — ^this is Mrs. Samoref 
" Mrs. Wraybum — ^Mr. Lightwood.'* 
Do not make the mistake of following the 
obsolete custom of leading a lady around the 
room, and introducing her to all in rotation. 
In making a lady known to a number at once, 
the hostess would say : * * Mrs. Woodcourt, let 
me present Miss Smnmerson — Miss Edith Sum- 
merson — and Mr. Warren ' ' ; or, if ' * The 
Young Person * * is the subject of this somewhat 
trying experience, anything but mentioning the 
names may be dispensed with, as, '^ Miss 
Nichols, Mrs. Sawyer '*; ^* Miss Brown, Mr. 
Brown.*' 

It sometimes happens that at the critical mo- 
ment the name of a guest cannot be recalled; 
or, as has in reality occurred, the hostess may 
substitute her own name or some other equally 
familiar for that of the stranger she desires to 
present; but these tricks of memory need not 



78 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

be considered blunders — a little ready wit will 
save the occasion from embarrassment, and, 
indeed, may break the ice of formality and in- 
stitute a *^ flow of soul '' that otherwise might 
have had to struggle for existence. 

The tactful hostess when introducing two 
guests will, if possible, add a few pleasant 
words, disclosing to the new acquaintances that 
they have some interest in common. As for 
instance : ^ ^ Miss Miller, let me introduce Mr. 
Mason, an enthusiastic Wagnerite like your- 
self * ' ; or, * * Mrs. Chalmers, may I present Mr. 
Carter — he has just returned from your favor- 
ite city, Venice.** 

It is not unusual for one to become the means 
of making people known to each other who have 
expressed a mutual desire for acquaintance, 
and the occasion may be recognized by some 
happy expression, as : 

* * I have great pleasure, Mrs. Martyn, in pre- 
senting Mr. Trowbridge ; * * or, * * Mrs. Bard- 
well, I am very glad of this opportunity to pre- 
sent Dr. Davis.'* 

When introducing one's relatives little cere- 
mony is used: ** This is my mother, Mr, 
Smith * * ; * ' Miss Lawrence, my brother has 
been wishing to know you,** or any similar 
mode, is preferable to anything formal. 

To extend the hand when acknowledging an 



INTRODUCTIONS 79 

introduction is an indication of cordial feeling; 
and in her own house a woman never neglects 
this gracious greeting when any one is pre- 
sented to her, with a genial expression of pleas- 
ure, as, "I am very glad to know you, Mrs. 
Perry ' ' ; or, * * It is a great pleasure to meet 
you, Mr. Robinson. ' ' 

In ceremonious society, however, none but 
the hostess thus welcomes an introduction; it 
is considered sufficient recognition for a woman 
to bow politely and simply repeat the name of 
the x)erson introduced, for the ultra-fashionable 
world considers handshaking a much too ef- 
fusive greeting to bestow upon a stranger. 
Natural impulse should be veiled behind a uni- 
form of reserve, which indicates a character 
like that of the Church of the Laodiceans — 
* * neither cold nor hot ' * — ^but appearances are 
more often than not deceitful. 

Strict form may be commended as being con- 
venient in crowded rooms; and a young lady 
may always refrain from pronounced enthusi- 
asm; but on most occasions extreme ceremony 
is embarrassing and leaves an unpleasant im- 
pression, thwarting the real purpose of social 
life, mutual good-fellowship, and enjoyment. 
The woman who has a right to the initiative 
will make no mistake in customarily offering 
her hand. 



80 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

The hostess rises in receiving all introduc- 
tions; a woman, when a guest, does not rise 
when a man is presented, or when she is one of 
a group to whom a woman is introduced, unless 
the newcomer is older than she, or is a distin- 
guished character ; if seated beside the hostess, 
who of course rises in greeting, she then rises 
also— and under all other circumstances. She 
rises in receiving an introduction to another 
woman. It is almost unnecessary to say that a 
man invariably stands in taking part in any 
introduction to any person. 

A guest may not refuse to accept an intro- 
duction made by host or hostess, even though 
it should be to his * ' dearest foe * ^ ; the hostess, 
it is to be presumed, knows nothing of the real 
state of affairs, or she would avoid the risk of 
causing embarrassment. And it is no detrac- 
tion from one's dignity to bow politely, as 
though to a perfect stranger; further com- 
munication can be unostentatiously avoided. 
The unusual but actual incident once occurred 
of a lady's accepting the introduction to an- 
other whom she did not care to know — ^three 
times in one evening, at a rather crowded re- 
ception; each time she bowed graciously — ^and 
then became quietly unconscious of the other's 
presence. 



INTRODUCTIONS 81 



THE TIME FOB INTBODXJCTIOKS 

The hostess is privileged to introduce to each 
other any persons who may be nnder her roof. 
In fashionable English society it is the custom 
to consider the mutual acquaintance of guests 
and hostess as * * tantamount ^ ' — ^as Mr. Guppy 
would say — ^to an introduction, which is doubt- 
less correct in theory, and under certain cir- 
cumstances ; but American society is so cosmo- 
politan in character that we find it is ** a con- 
dition, not a theory, that confronts us ''; and 
this liberal acceptance of the privileges of hos- 
pitality is not always practicable. The tactful 
hostess will see that her guests are presented 
to one another; she will thus place them upon 
a pleasanter footing to start with, and save the 
timid especially from embarrassment. 

At a small dinner the hostess is under obli- 
gation to introduce all her guests to one an- 
other; at a large dinner party those who are 
to go in to the table together must certainly be 
introduced, and as many more as the hostess 
can bring together without disturbing her 
guests or making obvious effort on her part; 
but introductions must not be made at the table. 
Guests gather in the drawing-room, where 
those who have not met before may be easily 
and gracefully made known to each other. 



82 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

On her ** At Home '* day the lady receiving 
introduces every newcomer to the guests who 
may be near; at a reception she presents the 
arrivals to those who assist her in receiving, 
but does not, only as a rare exception, leave her 
place to make introductions. 

At a private ball, the hostess introduces her 
guests as they enter to whoever receives with 
her, and makes as many introductions as pos- 
sible during the evening. 

Chaperons present dancing men to their 
charges as they have opportunity ; but at small 
private dances the young people do not as a 
rule wait for the hostess or chaperon to per- 
form the necessary introductions. They find it 
more convenient, and much better fun, no 
doubt, to take the matter into their own hands 
when occasions arise. Girls introduce their 
partners to other girls, and young men see to 
it that their male friends know their young 
women friends. At a private dance the host- 
ess must not forget throughout the evening to 
have a watchful eye for possible wall-flowers. 
She who can save the unpopular or unattrac- 
tive girl a dull or embarrassing evening, with- 
out seeming to have that object in view, will 
have accomplished a graceful and kindly act 
and one of no small difficulty. 

At public halls introductions are not ex- 



INTRODUCTIONS 83 

pected. There is no hostess proper here, and 
the matter of looking up and introducing part- 
ners for the dances belongs to the chaperon, or 
the escort of a young woman. 

Introductions in the street are seldom neces- 
sary when walking with a friend. Should one 
meet another friend to whom his companion is 
unknown, there is no real need of introducing 
the two, even though a momentary pause is 
made for the exchange of civilities. If, how- 
ever, the conversation seems likely to be pro- 
longed, then introduction should be made. Many 
people seem possessed of a mania for intro- 
ducing. Introductions are thrust upon their 
friends in the most awkward places and at awk- 
ward times. One hurrying to keep a business 
engagement steps into an elevator to be 
whisked to the top floor of a building. In the 
" car *' he finds an acquaintance — one of 
the introduction friends — accompanied by a 
stranger, whom she feels obliged to introduce, 
although the words of the ceremony are 
scarcely spoken before the unhappy victim 
must awkwardly doff his hat and hasten from 
the elevator. The chronic introducer knows no 
limitation in her effort to be sociable and 
friendly; she would feel awkward and embar- 
rassed if compelled to stand for a moment be- 
tween two acquaintances who were not known 



84 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

to each other ; therefore she hastens, regardless 
of the inconvenience of the meeting-place, to. 
** do the honors.'* Don't introduce ** right or 
left." It is not expected of you; and if you 
are walking with a friend who meets one who 
is a stranger to you, don't consider it a slight 
if you are not immediately presented. Should 
your friend keep you waiting beyond consid- 
erate limits without an introduction, you are 
at liberty to stroll on without him. 

LETTERS OP INTBODUCTION 

A letter of introduction is, or should be, an 
unsolicited courtesy. To ask for a letter of 
introduction is, for various reasons, not in 
good taste, and no man or woman of good 
breeding would offend in this particular. 
Should one be asked for a letter of introduction 
which he felt- the slightest hesitancy about giv- 
ing he would be quite justified in refusing it; 
in doing so, he should not wound the appli- 
cant's feelings. A person of tact can manage 
a delicate point of this kind without giving 
offence. 

It is usual, in sending one friend to another 
with a letter of introduction, to write in ad- 
vance to the prospective recipient of the intro- 
duction, giving him more detailed information 
regarding the bearer of the letter than could 



INTRODUCTIONS 85 



conveniently or properly be written in the letter 
itself. 

A letter of introduction contains little beside 
the few words necessary to make the two people 
known to each other; there is usually a 
courteous line, to the effect that any attention 
shown to the caller will be appreciated. 

In writing an introduction, do not fall into 
the error of mentioning personal matters in 
the same letter. 

A letter of introduction is usually somewhat 
as follows : 

My Deab Mbs. Babten : 

It gives me much pleasure to introduce to 
you my friend Miss Wylie, who will make your 
city her home for several months while pursu- 
ing her musical studies. Any courtesy you 
may extend to her will be deeply appreciated. 
With kindest regards, I am, 

Sincerely yours, 

Ejlthebike H. Milleb. 

A letter of introduction is not sealed ; to seal 
a note of this kind would be a discourtesy to 
the bearer. A card of introduction is a simpler 
affair. One's visiting card is used for this 
purpose with the name of the friend one desires 
to introduce written at the top, thus : 



tf THE MODERN HOSTESS 

Introduci/ng Miss Edith Browne 
Mrs. William Grey 

37 Maple Avenue 

This is enclosed in a card envelope, and, like 
the letter, is left unsealed. In addition to the 
address, one may write on the envelope in the 
lower left-hand comer, ** Introducing Miss 
Edith Browne/* A man usually presents a 
note of introduction in person. He calls at the 
house, during the proper calling hours, whether 
afternoon or evening, and presents both the 
letter and his own visiting card. He may be 
received at once; but in case the person upon 
whom he has called is not at home, it is usual 
to place his personal visiting card in the en- 
velope with the letter or card of introduction, 
to seal the envelope, and leave it with the ser- 
vant to be delivered. A woman generally de- 
livers a note of introduction through the 
medium of Uncle Sam's post oflSce. She en- 
closes her own card with her address thereon, 
puts a stamp on the envelope, and waits to be 
called upon. . 

Upon receiving a letter of introduction from 
a woman, one should go very promptly to call 
upon her, and should afterward extend to her 
suitable form of hospitality. 



INTRODUCTIONS 87 



Upon receiving a letter of introduction from 
a man, a note of acknowledgment shonld be sent 
to him, followed by an invitation to dinner or 
by the offer of some other courtesy. A man 
who receives a letter introducing a man is 
under obligations to call upon him and to enter- 
tain him to the best of his ability. 

When from any cause one can neither call 
upon nor extend invitations to the bearer of a 
letter of introduction, a note of explanation 
and kindly regrets should be sent to him 
promptly. 

A lady introduced by letter to a man simply 
mails the letter to him with her card, and may 
expect him to call within a few days. His call 
should be followed by courtesies which he can 
properly offer, but he should not merely call 
and then let the acquaintanceship drop. This 
would not be kind either to the writer or bearer 
of the letter. 

It is graceful on the part of the receiver of 
a letter of introduction to write a pleasant note 
later on to the friend who wrote it 



CARDS 

The etiquette of a man's card being simpler, 
we will dispose of him first, so as to make way 
for the lady. 

A man's card is much smaller than a 
woman's, and may, for convenience of carry- 
ing in the waistcoat pocket, be very thin, but 
should be of the finest quality and the neatest 
design, always engraved, not printed, nor, ex- 
cept in emergency, written. This is the most 
preferred style and size : 



Mr. John Henry Ford 



S West 33rd Street 



Unless followed by " Jr.," the title '' Mr." 
should never be omitted. A bachelor may have 
his home address in the right-hand comer, and 
that of his favorite club in the left, or, if of 

88 



CARDS 99 

nomadic habits^ the clnb address only on the 
right-hand side. 

A business address must never appear on a 
visiting card. If possible, every Christian 
name should appear in full, but if this form is 
too long, an initial may be substituted for the 
second name, but not for the first — ^^ Mr. 
James K. Hamilton " looks far better than 
would ** Mr. J. Kimberley Hamilton. *' 

The eldest male member of a family may dis- 
pense with the Christian name and appear as 
** Mr. Hamilton,'' especially if he be of the old- 
est branch of the family. Ben, Jim, Hal, and 
such contractions neither add to the dignity or 
appearance of a card, and should never be seen. 

Although some wealthy bachelors do give 
delightful '^ At Homes " during the season, 
such dates never appear on a man's card. This 
is a privilege of a lady and a hostess which 
must not be encroached on. 

TTTLES ON CABDS 

Americans are most prone to the use of all 
possible titles, and a society notice will read: 
** Mr. Sub-deputy-assistant-collector Jinks is a 
great favorite with the ladies of Little-ville. " 
Keep these titles off your visiting cards. The 
only persons whose titles are seen on cards are 
the President and Vice-President of the United 



90 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

States, ambassadors^ justices of the higher 
courts, clergymen, and officers in the regular 
army and navy above the rank of lieutenant. 

The school-teacher, self -dubbed " Profes- 
sor, '^ and local magistrates known as ** Judge,*' 
should be most particularly careful to be satis- 
fied with plain * * Mr. ' ' on their cards. 

The card of a lieutenant in the army should 
state simply ** Mr. John Victor Allen,** with 
" United States Army ** in the right-hand cor- 
ner of the card, whilst captains, majors, etc., 
place the title before the full name and desig- 
nate in the comer whether of artillery, cavalry, 
infantry, or the engineering corps. 

A Judge of the Supreme Court places '* Mr. 
Justice ** before either his surname or full 
name, as, ** Mr. Justice Allen ** or ** Mr. Jus- 
tice John William Allen.** 

A clergyman styles himself * * Reverend Sam- 
uel James PuUsford,** or the contraction 
'* Eev.*' is quite allowable. The professional 
card of a physician usually states his office 
hours and address, and should never be used 
for social purposes; it might look like adver- 
tising. The social card states ^^ Dr. James 
Neill,** or better, '' James Neill, M. D.,** with 
his home address in the right-hand comer. 
Avoid a boastful card. A clergyman may use 
** D. D.** after his name, without '' Eev.** be- 



CARDS 9S 

fore, if he has the degree, but no man should 
string a list of degrees, titles, honors, or names 
of societies on a visiting card. 

HOW A MAN USES CARDS 

The young man, in his eagerness towards a 
particular lady, often forgets the courtesy due 
her mother or chaperon and the other ladies of 
the home, and sends up to or leaves only one 
card for the lady in question. This is ill-ad- 
vised besides ill-mannered. Two cards should 
always be sent up or left, one for the mother 
or chaperon, who is at any rate his hostess, 
however little he wishes to see her. The other 
card is for all the ladies in the home, if there 
be others, and he should ask, not especially for 
" her,*' but for the ladies. If not unwilling, 
" she '* will part herself from the others with- 
out fail. Should the ladies be at home, and one 
or more see him, he will in addition leave a 
card for his host in the hall as he goes out. 

After a man has been presented to a lady, he 
may be in doubt whether his acquaintance will 
be agreeable to her, and be too delicate to ask 
whether he may have the pleasure of calling on 
her. In this case he may leave his card at her 
residence, and if he is welcome, her mother or 
chaperon will send him an invitation to visit 
the family or perhaps to some entertainment 



92 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

at the home. After this he will understand 
that his visits are desired, and continue to call 
to pay his respects. If the lady's list of ac- 
quaintances be already too extensive, his card 
may be disregarded, and he must wait for 
recognition from the ladies of the household 
when he meets them again. 

A call made by a man on a lady on her * * At 
Home *' day needs no card either sent up or 
left unless it be his first call of the season, or 
he wishes to take advantage of the opportunity 
to leave a card in acknowledgment of hospi- 
tality he has received. Such entertainment re- 
quires the leaving of only one card — this for 
his host. 

The card left on a first call shows his address 
for the season. 

CARD INTRODUCING A MAN 

A man may be introduced by card or letter, 
the introducer writing ** Introducing Mr. So- 
and-So '' on the top left-hand comer of his or 
her card. If the introduction is to a lady or 
ladies the gentleman should call in person and 
hand this card with his own to the servant. 

A card of introduction to another man may 
be posted along with his own. The receiver 
of both should recognize the introduction in 
person within three days, or, if for any reason 



CARDS 



93 



this be impossible, he should send a card by 
special messenger with an explanation and the 
offer of such courtesies as his relations with 
the introducer call forth. 

ladies' visitinq cabds 

A lady's card should also be of the very best 
material and quality. One of white bristol 
board of medium thickness, polished but not 
glazed, without bevelled or gilt edges or super- 
fluous decoration of any kind, shows good taste 
and knowledge of the best usages. 

The card is engraved, not printed; black, 
script, or Old English lettering is equally suit- 
able. 

Married ladies use a rather larger card than 
do single, of size and style like these: 



Mrs. William Henry Jones 



131 Troop St. 



94 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



Miss Helen Jones 



131 Troop St. 



Cards of the best people show the full Chris- 
tian name as well as the surname/ ^^ Mrs. James 
Kimberley Hamilton ' ' showing more style than 
** Mrs. James K. Hamilton,*' and *' Miss Helen 
Elizabeth Brown '* than '' Miss Helen E. 
Brown." Pet names and diminutives like Liz- 
zie, Moll, Peggy, should be strictly avoided. 

The wife of the eldest member of the oldest 
branch of a family may drop her husband's 
Christian name and style herself ** Mrs. Sturte- 
vant,'' and her eldest daughter may leave out 
her Christian name and be ** Miss Sturtevant,'' 
but if there are several families of the name in 
the same locality, to avoid confusion it is better 
to follow the general rule. In America a lady's 
card always reads ** Mrs." or *' Miss," and 
should never be without one or the other; she 
does not share her husband's title and should 



CARDS 95 

be very careful not to borrow it for her card. 
The wife of the President is *' Mrs. Theodore 
Roosevelt/* and of General Miles ** Mrs. Nel- 
son A. Miles.*' If one lady may style herself 
*' Mrs. Mayor Upstart," it is just as appropri- 
ate for another to be ** Mrs. Janitor Brown,*' 
or ** Mrs. Street-cleaner Scoop.** 

The lady who has earned the title of doctor, 
and practises medicine, does not state as much 
on her visiting cards. She uses two different 
sets : one for professional purposes, with * * Dr. 
Elizabeth Bansome ** or ^^ Elizabeth Bansome, 
M. D.,'* as the style, whilst her social card, 
** Mrs.** or '* Miss,** as the case may be, has 
no title, and has her home address engraved on 
the right-hand comer. 

A lady whose husband has the same name as 
his father often adds ** Junior ** or ** Jr.** to 
her name on her card, so as to make a distinc- 
tion from the card of her mother-in-law. If 
her husband *s father dies she leaves out the 
** Jr., ** while her mother-in-law places *^ Sr.** 
on her card. If both ladies become widows and 
wish to keep their husbands* Christian names, 
the younger lady uses *^Jr.'* and the elder 
leaves out the ** Sr.'* 

A Widow has the choice of using her own 
Christian names or those of her late husband. 
The widow of Mr. William Henry Jones may 



96 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

nave on her cards either * * Mrs. William Henry 
Jones *' or ** Mrs. Bertha Helen Jones. '* 

Another fashion in vogue is for a widow or 
divorced woman to use her maiden surname 
with that of her late husband; a lady whose 
maiden name was Miss Harrison and husband's 
name Burton may, on widowhood or divorce, 
call herself ** Mrs. Harrison Burton.'' 

A Divorced Woman naturally wishes to for- 
get her former husband, and never displays his 
Christian name on her card. She may, if she 
wishes, retain his surname with her own Chris- 
tian or surname, but usually prefers to resume 
her full maiden name with the prefix ** Mrs." 
instead of *iMiss." 

^^ At Home '' Days. — ^A lady usually has en- 
graved in the left-hand comer of her card a 
day of the week on which she will be ** at 
home " — Tuesdays, Thursdays, or Fridays, as 
the case may be. This signifies that she will 
receive callers on the day specified between 
three and six. Some ladies have their after- 
noons once or twice a month, and the card states 
* * first Monday, " * * second and fourth Tues- 
day," which means the first Monday or second 
and fourth Tuesday in every month. Ladies 
who do not wish to receive after a certain date 
add ** until Lent," or ** until April," as they 
may desire. 



CARDS 97 

A Young Lady in her first season, if her 
mother has introduced her and is her chaperon, 
does not carry her own card. Her name is 
placed on a large card below that of her 
mother : 

Mrs. WiUiam Jones 
Miss Helen Jones 

She is expected in her first season to pay calls 
with her mother, and of course assists at her 
mother's ** At Home/' She uses the same 
card if she pays a call alone, running a pencil 
mark through her mother's name. 

Should a younger sister be introduced next 
season, or two sisters * * come out ' ' at the same 
time, the daughters ' names would appear below 
that of the mother, as, ^^ The Misses Hamil- 
ton." After a season or two, if a young lady 
begins to call alone, she may have a separate 
card, but without specifying a day at home, as 
this will be understood to be the same as her 
mother's. Even after some years in society, 
so long as the daughters remain unmarried, it 
is well to keep the joint card in addition to their 
own, for it will always be serviceable whenever 
they do call with their mother, wish to announce 
their day at home, change of address, and in 



96 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

all circumstances in which their mother is also 
included. 

Married Couples have a card, rather larger 
than the wife's, which does not mention ^^ At 
Home/' and is not used for answering calls. 
This card is allowed a lady on returning from 
her honeymoon, and is used in sending a pres- 
ent whichcome; also from her husband, in for- 
warding their combined regrets in answer to 
invitations, and so forth. This joint card is 
often enclosed with a wedding invitation to 
show where the home of the bride and groom 
will be. 

HOW A LADY USES HEB GABD 

Never, on any account, carry a card into the 
drawing-room and present it to the hostess. It 
is the servant's business to take cards when 
necessary, but most occasions simply require 
them to be left on a tray, which is always placed 
conspicuously in the hall. 

There was a time when a lady had to carry 
whole packs of cards and leave one for every 
member of a household, repeating this bounty 
at every visit. There was also a custom of 
folding the edges of cards left when a person 
was not at home. One side folded meant one 
thing and the other another, whilst the servant 
would frequently turn down a corner, perhaps 



CARDS 99 

for Inck, so that the card was scarcely fit to be 
seen when all hands had finished with it. 

Simpler methods prevail nowadays, so that 
the average mind can readily cope with modem 
card etiqnette. 

Most calls are made on the appointed ** At 
Home '^ day, and cards are left on the tray in 
the hall on the way to the drawing-room, but 
if calls are restricted to these *' At Homes," 
cards are only needed on two occasions. If the 
call is the first of the season, a lady should leave 
one of her own cards with two of her husband 's, 
and if the call is made in return for hospitality 
received at the home, the same disposition of 
cards is made, providing the hostess is a mar- 
ried woman. A lady leaves two of her hus- 
band's cards and one of her own because it is 
not expected that a lady should leave her card 
on a male member of a household. A married 
woman should always keep a stock of her hus- 
band 's cards, and be careful to leave them at 
all homes where he has received hospitality. 
She need not perform this office for her sons 
or bachelor brothers, as it is their business to 
make their own calls and acknowledgments. 

A lady does not leave cards for unmarried 
daughters of the hostess if they are receiving 
with their mother, but if she finds a married 
daughter or a friend assisting at the reception. 



fOO THE MODERN HOSTESS 

she should, on going away, leave one of her 
cards for this friend or married daughter. 

A young lady who uses her own cards, and 
finds her hostess receiving with a friend, daugh- 
ter, or female relative, leaves two cards if her 
call is the first of the season or in return for 
hospitality. If the young lady is a frequent 
caller, she does not leave cards except on these 
occasions. 

On paying a chance call on mother and daugh- 
ters, or hostess and friend, and finding them to 
be out, a young lady leaves two cards, but she, 
just as a matron, must never leave cards on 
the men of a house. If a call be made on a lady 
visiting at a home, two cards are required, one 
for the hostess as well as the friend, whether 
the hostess knows the caller or not. This rule 
applies to men as well as women. 

It sometimes happens that two maiden ladies 
are equally mistress of an establishment. The 
married lady who calls on them for the first 
time in the season, or after being entertained, 
leaves two of her husband *s cards and two of 
her own. An unmarried lady at the head of 
her father *s or brother's house receives the same 
courtesy in the matter of cards as a matron does. 

In paying calls in a strange city or neighbor- 
hood both men and women should write their 
temporary address on their cards in the op- 



CARDS lOf 

posite corner to the permanent address. On 
making calls at hotels it is just as well to write 
on the card sent up, or left, the name of the 
friend for whom it is meant. 

CABDS OF INTBODUCTION FOB LADIES 

Letters of introduction are not in such com- 
mon use as formerly, unless an explanation is 
necessary. The introducing lady writes neatly 
on the upper left-hand comer of her card : 

Introducing 

Mrs. William Harcourt. 

The card is enclosed in an envelope with that 
of the lady desiring the introduction, and may 
be posted or sent by messenger. The lady who 
receives the two cards must call in person on 
the lady introduced, or send a note by special 
messenger explaining her omission if unable, 
from any cause, to do so. Nothing less is pos- 
sible without offending the introducing party. 

CARDS FOB CHANCE CALLS 

When the caller is not sure of finding her 
friend at home a slightly diflferent card-pro- 
cedure obtains. She had better take the right 
number of cards from her case before rin^ng 
the bell. If she is single, or, if married, she and 



SQ2 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

her husband have not been recently entertained 
at the house, she takes two of her own cards, 
one for the hostess and one for the other ladies. 
But if she is a married woman calling on a 
married woman who has recently invited her to 
a dinner or dance, she takes out two of her hus- 
band's cards in addition to two of her own. 
Should the hostess have as her guest a sister, 
mother, friend, or a married daughter, the lady 
caller takes out three of her own cards. 

If the servant, on appearing, says, ** Not at 
home,'' the cards are handed in and the caller 
goes on her way. 

If the ladies send down word that they are 
in the drawing-room, she places the cards on 
the tray in the hall as she passes through. 

It sometimes happens that the servant is not 
quite sure whether her mistress is at home or 
not ; in that event the caller gives her personal 
cards only and waits in the drawing-room until 
the servant finds out. Should the ladies not 
be at home, she adds two of her husband's cards 
to her own and gives them all to the servant 
whilst departing. If the ladies do appear, she 
makes the call and subsequently leaves two of 
her husband's cards on the tray. 

After a personal introduction, chance or 
otherwise, the lady who is the oldest resident 
may, if she chooses, leave a card, which must 



CARDS 



be acknowledged in a week, unless the ** At 
Home " day is denoted on the card of the first 
caller, when advantage should be taken of that 
day. Unless agreeable to both, no further 
visiting is necessary. 

A WOMAK PAYING A BUSINESS GALL 

A woman having business with a man never 
sends in her card. She need only give her 
name to the servant or clerk along with a short 
verbal message as to the nature of her business, 
or she may write her name and the message on 
a slip of paper. 

If a woman pays a business call on another 
woman who is a stranger to her, she sends up 
a card, sometimes scribbling a line on it as to 
her errand, or else giving a short explanation 
to the servant. 

A woman may also have occasion to call on 
another who, though quite her social equal, is 
a stranger. She should send up her card with 
an explanation of her reason for calling, leav* 
ing the card and message if the lady should be 
out. 

A STBANQEB LEAVINQ CABDS 

A man or woman having a friend staying at 
the house often takes this friend along while 
paying calls. In this event the question may 
arise as to the proper thing to be done. If the 



104 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

friend be a guest for two or three weeks or 
longer, it is customary to leave his or her card, 
whether the persons called on are at home or 
not. This signifies that the caller wishes the 
friend to be included in any invitations received 
from the person called on. If the host or host- 
ess takes a guest along as a matter of conveni- 
ence, and the guest is only staying a short time, 
no card of such a guest need be left, and it will 
be understood that this guest, if a lady, need 
not be called on in return, nor, if a gentleman, 
invited to any forthcoming entertainment. 

When a son has entered society, his mother 
leaves his card along with his father's and 
mother's, signifying that it is expected that he 
will be included in the season's invitations. 
This is strict etiquette. 

A man or woman is often taken to a house 
for the express purpose of being introduced. 
If it is the regular ** At Home " afternoon, 
the caller leaves cards as on any first call. 
If a chance call be made, and the hostess is out, 
the stranger leaves his or her cards along with 
those of the accompanying friend. 

CABDS LEFT INSTEAD OF CALLING 

There are several circumstances which allow 
of cards being left at the door in place of a per- 
sonal calL 



CARDS 105 

People invited to the marriage ceremony 
only, when a church wedding is to occur, or 
those to whom cards announcing the marriage 
are sent, should leave their cards — ^whether 
men or women— on the bride's mother within 
a week or two after the ceremony. 

A man or woman friend of the groom, but a 
stranger to the bride's mother, being invited 
to the wedding, and unable to attend, does not 
call, but leaves cards on the bride's mother a 
fortnight after the wedding. 

If the members of a club or social institution 
are entertained at the home of a lady, those 
invited should leave their cards on the hostess 
very soon after the occasion, even though they 
have no calling acquaintance with her and the 
reception was but an afternoon aflfair. 

As a courteous concession to her age or in- 
firmities, an elderly lady, semi-invalid, or 
woman in deep mourning, is privileged to leave 
her cards in acknowledgment of invitations re- 
ceived or calls made on her. 

If a lady has not had the time to make a first 
call or a call after entertainment, but is anxious 
to extend an invitation, she will be forgiven if 
she leaves her card on her friend instead of 
calling, or even posts her card together with the 
invitation. 

Changes of address and re-entrance into so- 



106 THE MODEEIN HOSTESS 

ciety are announced by leaving cards ; and they 
are also left with enquiries after health or to 
show a kindly feeling in the event of misfor- 
tune. 

When leaving cards without making a call 
the required number are handed to the servant 
who answers the bell, with the remark, ** For 
Mr. and Mrs. Ford,'* ** Mrs. and the Misses 
Ford,'* or for whomsoever they are intended. 

MOUBKING CARDS 

In America there are no fixed rules in regard 
to the black border of a mourning visiting card, 
but any ostentation shows the worst possible 
taste. 

A widow usually has a border slightly wider 
than one-third of an inch during the first year 
of widowhood ; this is reduced to a third of an 
inch during the first half of the second year. 
After about a year and a half the border is 
diminished by a sixteenth of an inch every six 
months until the period of mourning is over. 

A widower's card being a man's, and smaller, 
has not such a wide border, which is gradually 
reduced in the same way as the widow's. 

This reduction of the black border is not in 
good taste after the death of a parent, child, 
sister, or brother. For these relatives the card 
should, during the whole period of mourning, 



CARDS 107 

have a black edge between one-eighth and a 
sixteenth of an inch in width. 

Monming for a grandparent, nncley or aunt 
is denoted by a border one-sixteenth of an inch 
wide dnring the whole i)eriod. When a lady 
past middle-age is left a widow she often adopts 
permanent mourning. After the first year she 
substitutes a border of one-eighth of an inch 
for the wide one and keeps this card for the rest 
of her days. 

CABDS OF CONDOLENCE AND ENQUIBY 

A card of enquiry after the health of a sick 
friend must always be left in person, after ask- 
ing the latest news of the patient. It is neither 
courteous nor kind to post these cards. Under 
the engraved name of the caller the words ' ' to 
enquire '' are written in pencil, so as to show 
the card to be especially designed for the sick 
person and as proof of the genuine interest of 
the caller. 

A card need only be left at long intervals 
when kindly solicitude prompts a daily call of 
enquiry. 

Cards of condolence should be left as soon as 
a death is announced and must be handed in 
person by the friends and acquaintances of the 
bereaved family. A bouquet of flowers may 
accompany the card, but this should be a 



108 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

sign of personal affection and not a mere pa- 
rade. 

A husband and wife leave two of each of 
their own, or else two of their joint cards, one 
for the parents and one for the other members 
of the family. In case of the death of hnsband 
or wife, the same number of cards should be 
left if there are grown-up sons and daughters. 
If the parent of a married woman dies, cards 
are left at her door and at that of the surviving 
parent. When the sole remaining parent of a 
family dies, cards are left on the eldest son and 
daughter. 

There is a custom, not always observed, of 
leaving cards both shortly after the death and 
a few days after the funeral, but if this be done 
the cards are left with less ceremony, and a 
lady may leave them for all her family or a 
sister for her brother. This second leaving of 
cards is not invariable, and it seems rather to 
overdo expressions of sympathy and likely to 
prolong the anguish of the bereaved family. 

CABDS nr ANSWER TO ENQUffiY OB CONDOLENCE 

These cards may take two forms. A i)er8on, 
on recovery from a serious illness, usually 
sends through the post his or her own cards to 
all who have called, with ** Many thanks for 
your kind enquiries *' written in pencil on the 



CARDS 109 

card. To callers who have shown especial 
anxiety and have sent flowers, fruit, books, etc., 
in addition to making enqniries, short, cordial 
notes of thanks are sent. A distingoished lady 
of New York, on recovering from a recent ill- 
ness, sent out a card engraved in elegant script : 

" Mrs. presents her compliments and 

thanks for recent kind enquiries." This seems 
a very sensible plan, worthy of wider adoption. 
Parents acknowledging enquiries for a young 
child who has recovered from illness use their 
joint card. 

In acknowledgment of cards of condolence 
after a bereavement, written letters of thanks 
are expected by intimate friends. In addition, 
either a mourning card or a special black-edged 
card of thanks should be posted to all persons 
who have sent cards of condolence. The two 
forms are in equal favor. If the ordinary 
mourning card is posted, '* With thanks for 
your kind sympathy " is written on it, and it 
is enclosed in a black-bordered envelope. 

When the large, especially printed cards are 
employed as a means of returning thanks, a 
large white card with a black border is chosen 
and the inscription printed thereon, not en- 
graved. These cards are also posted in black- 
edged envelopes and are of the following 
styles : 



no THE 



Mrs. James WUson a/Hd Family 
return thanks for your kind sympathy. 

60 North Street. 



Mrs. James WUson 
returns thanks to 



and family 



for their kind sympathy and condolence. 

60 North Street. 

Or the widow and children might use this form : 

The family of the late 

James Wilson 

return their sincere thanks for your kind 

sympathy. 

60 North Street. 

CABDS ANNOUNCING BIRTH, AND BEPLIES 

On the birth of a child, special cards are sent 
to friends and acquaintances in honor of the 
event. To a large, square card bearing the 



CARDS Iff 

mother's name is attached a small one, of one- 
fourth the size, with the full name of the child 
and date of its birth. In response to these 
cards, calls of enquiry after the health of 
mother and child are made and cards left on 
the mother and by some people on both, al- 
though it seems far-fetched to leave cards on 
a child a week or more old. 

Persons living at a distance, or unable to call, 
should post tiieir own cards to the mother with 
** Hearty congratulations " written above the 
name of the sender. 

p. p. 0. CABD8 

'^ Pour prendre conge " — ^to take leave — is 
contracted to P. P. C, and the letters are writ- 
ten on one of the lower corners of the cards of 
persons leaving their city of residence or neigh- 
borhood before the end of the season, or going 
on a voyage. These cards are left on all people 
with whom there have been visiting relations, 
and are generally left in person, or, if time 
does not allow, it is quite correct to post them 
the day before going away. These cards ac- 
quaint friends of a departure and also serve as 
acknowledgment of hospitalities, and cancel the 
indebtedness of calls which lack of time has 
prevented being paid. 

At the season's close it is not necessary to 



112 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

send P. P. C, cards, as all obligations are sup- 
posed to have been already met, though some 
people do use them to let their friends know 
that they have finally left the city or neighbor- 
hood. 

It is a useful idea, when starting on a voyage, 
to write on the cards the address of a banker 
or other headquarters in the foreign country 
to which one is going. 

P. P. C. cards need no return. 

CABDS WHEN TRAVELLING 

When a lady visits a neighborhood where she 
has several friends and intends to stay some 
time, she posts to her friends — both men and 
women— cards showing her temporary address. 

A man should call on his friends himself, and 
if they are out, leave his card. 

It is better to use one's permanent card for 
this purpose, crossing out the home address and 
writing the temporary one in pencil over it. 

A person in society will acquaint friends of 
a change of residence in the same way. 



CALLS 

The proper making of calls is to the novice a 
matter of mnch form and conventionality. To 
the woman of modest social aspirations, she 
whose life is well filled with other duties, the 
etiquette of calling may seem a bit tiresome. 
Bnt if she wishes to keep in touch with friends 
and acquaintances, she must do her share of the 
visiting and should do it in the conventional 
way. She must get rid of the idea that she 
will be a welcome guest at any hour of the 
day and upon any day of the week. As a mat- 
ter of great convenience to themselves most 
women of any social pretensions whatever ap- 
point a day of the week to be ** at home " to 
their friends. This information is printed upon 
their visiting cards, and any one disregarding 
it, when intending to make a purely social call, 
is guilty of a rudeness. Calls upon business or 
for some matter of special importance may be, of 
course, arranged for other dates, but these are 
not ** calls '* in the social sense. A moment's 
thought will convince one of the need of thus 
protecting one's self from the annoyance of re- 
ceiving ill-timed calls. A friend who would be 



114 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

very welcome when one is prepared to receive 
her may be seriously in the way upon another 
occasion. In small places the reprehensible 
habit of running in and out of one another^s 
houses at all hours of the day still prevails. 
No one really likes such invasion of their 
privacy, however much they may pretend to, 
or however ** friendly '* they may be with the 
invader; and such calls would not be tolerated 
in the polite society of the more sophisticated 
towns. It is much better, even for the woman 
who makes and receives but few calls, to set 
aside a day to see her friends, and to be ready 
upon that day, in her ** best bib and tucker,'* 
to do the honors of her home. In many neigh- 
borhoods of the larger cities, especially in dis- 
tricts bordering upon the suburbs, the women 
seem to retain the old-fashioned idea that a 
newcomer must be received with open arms by 
the entire block. To a woman coming from a 
more conservative place, it is at first surprising 
and afterwards annoying to find that she is 
expected to exchange calls with twenty women 
or so with whom she has not the slightest ac- 
quaintance nor the slightest desire to become 
acquainted. But if she is to dwell among these 
kindly, sociable souls, she must know them or 
incur their ill-feeling; for the woman who 
makes a call upon the newcomer feels that she 



CALLS tfS 

is extending to her the hand of hospitality, and 
to have that hand ignored is a serious offence 
to her pride. Common sense seems to play no 
part in this determination of many women to 
make the acquaintance of strangers ; and it cer- 
tainly never occurs to them that the stranger 
may have no desire to know them. It is a fool- 
ish practice and is, of course, not indulged in by 
women of nice feeling or those accustomed to 
the usages of good society. 

Strictly formal calling in the society of large 
cities is hedged in by many little conventional 
details as to the days, hours, cards, degree of 
acquaintance, etc. The ** At Home '* day is 
generally observed ; the usual hours for making 
calls are from three or three-thirty to five in 
the afternoon. This refers more especially td 
calls made by women. Men, owing to the re- 
striction of business hours, have rather more 
latitude, and do not as a rule call on '^ At 
Home " days. A man may pay his duty calls 
in the evening or on Sunday. The custom of 
receiving one's friends upon Sunday afternoon 
and evening prevails very generally. A man 
should not call later in the evening than nine 
o'clock. He has not the privilege of taking 
another man to call upon his women friends 
without first receiving their permission to do so. 
A gentleman who wishes to become acquainted 



If6 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

with ladies can do so properly only through the 
introduction of a mutual friend. He makes his 
first call in the company of this friend. 

With the beginning of the social season, * * At 
Home '* cards are sent out and ** calling '' be- 
comes a part of the business of the day. It is 
well to call promptly upon friends who have 
extended their hospitality to you during the 
summer. 

It is customary for the participants in a 
wedding, that is, the bridesmaids, the best man, 
ushers, etc., to call shortly after the ceremony 
upon the mother of the bride. Guests at a 
home wedding do likewise, and also call upon 
the bride when she returns from her honey- 
moon. Her * * At Home ' ' cards usually inform 
friends as to the time set apart for receiving. 
Pallbearers at a funeral should call upon the 
family of the deceased within a few weeks after 
the sad ceremony. 

In regard to new acquaintances, it is an act 
of courtesy for a hostess to call upon such be- 
fore inviting them to an entertainment, — ^this 
does not refer to men acquaintances. 

If one is asked by an intimate friend to ex- 
tend the courtesy of an invitation to a person 
with whom she has no acquaintance, the 
prospective hostess should call first upon this 
friend of her friend or leave her card. 



CALLS 117 

In regard to the frequency of calling upon 
one's friends, it may be said that calls of the 
severely conventional kind may occur but once 
in a year. This is where an acquaintance has 
never advanced beyond the point of pure for- 
mality. At the beginning of the season calling 
is rather more prompt. First calls should be 
returned within two weeks. It is best not to 
allow too long an interval to elapse when one 
* * owes ' ' a call ; and it is necessary that a call 
made in person should be so returned — ^that is, 
it should not be acknowledged by merely send- 
ing one's card. 

The tactful and well-bred society woman who 
finds herself afSicted by an undesirable woman 
caller does not display her annoyance by word 
or manner, but makes haste to return the first 
call, or to leave her card; then it is an easy 
matter to drop the acquaintance gradually by 
sending cards now and then until the a£fair 
dies a natural d^ath. 

The man who makes a living by writing 
funny paragraphs for the newspapers and 
comic periodicals finds much to say in a hmnor- 
ous way on the subject of making formal calls. 
He delights to picture the ill-concealed joy of 
the caller who finds that her ** friends '' are 
** out.'' There are other people who would 
have the world believe that formal calls are a 



Iia THE MODERN HOSTESS 

farce and a waste of time altogether. There is 
this to be said in defence of the custom : If one 
goes in for society at all, he must regard its 
conventionalities; and it may safely be as- 
sumed that the man or woman who keeps well 
in touch with a large circle of friends and ac- 
quaintances possesses advantages, from a 
worldly point of view, that he or she of limited 
acquaintance cannot hope to have. This is a 
statement which many will dispute; but there 
are many more who will agree that a wide gen- 
eral acquaintance, pleasantly maintained, is a 
valuable asset in the business of living. It is 
not true, for one thing, that a man's friends 
and acquaintances desert him in misfortune. 
The percentage of people who are capable of 
this meanness is not so large as is generally 
believed; and while one does not care to con- 
sider his friends as possible helpers in diffi- 
culties, it is still a fine thing to realize that one 
possesses the good will and kindly interest of 
80 many of his fellow creatures. But this is a 
digression. 

To return to the etiquette of Calling: If a 
woman is on her way to call upon a friend, and 
should chance to meet the latter faring forth 
upon business or pleasure of her own, she 
should not take advantage of the opportunity 
to leave cards at her door, thus hoping to 



CALLS 1)9 

escape the task of a second call; she should 
postpone her visit nntil another day. 

If, through the interest of a f riend, a woman 
is invited to an entertainment at a house where 
she is a stranger, she should pay a call upon 
the hostess within a week or so after the occa- 
sion. This call the hostess may return if 
she wishes to continue the acquaintance, but 
it is not compulsory, and the one who " en- 
joyed her hospitality has no reason to feel 
offended. 

A woman never calls upon a man socially. 
The only occasion on which a woman calls upon 
a man is upon a matter of business ; and on such 
occasions she should make it a point to find out 
the business hours of the place and go at such 
time. She is usually met by a clerk, or in case 
of a call upon the minister at the rectory, or a 
doctor in his office, by the maid, to whom she 
gives her name, requesting that it be taken to Mr. 
So-and-So. In a man's office, a woman should 
not look for just the same courteous treatment 
that he would bestow upon her in a drawing- 
room. Some men are always courteous, not 
only in their hours of ease, but during business 
hours ; the average man, however, is reprehen- 
sibly lacking in his company manners when his 
mind is full of business, and while he is not 
really rude, a woman who is sensitive and in- 



120 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

experienced may be annoyed, or even somewhat 
shocked, to find herself not altogether the ob- 
ject of polite attention that she is accustomed to 
being in society. But a man who is not wholly 
a boor will remember that his caller is a 
woman, and will not offend by too far forget- 
ting the conventionalities. He will not receive 
her in his shirt-sleeves, if by chance he is in- 
dulging in this luxury of undress when she ar- 
rives; neither will he keep his hat on; he will 
rise when she enters his office, and stand until 
she is seated. When she leaves he will open 
the door for her; and if an intimate acquaint- 
ance, will escort her to the corridor of the build- 
ing, or to the elevator, if there is one. A 
woman who calls upon a man during his busi- 
ness hours should, above all things, endeavor 
to be brief and direct in her conununication. 
Nothing is more annoying to a man than to 
have a business caller constantly digress from 
the matter in hand. 

The occasions when it becomes necessary for 
a woman to call upon a man at his house, where 
she has no acquaintance, are not frequent, but 
should such an emergency arise, the woman 
must go in the company of a relative or 
chaperon. A call of this kind should be made as 
brief as possible. A woman should not, under 
any circumstances, call unchaperoned at a 



CALLS 121 

bachelor apartment. She may have enjoyed 
the hospitality of a bachelor friend in some 
pleasant way, but the acceptance of his invita- 
tions entails no after acknowledgment upon 
her part in the way of calling. In the large 
cities, artists, musicians, and literary men fre- 
quently entertain their friends in their apart- 
ments, or studios. These affairs are usually 
very delightful, but women do not attend them 
alone. As has been said before, most women 
in society have long since recognized the con- 
venience and general desirability of having an 
** At Home ** day. This, in the larger towns 
or cities, is usually one day in each week 
throughout the social season, which begins 
about the first of November. Some ** At 
Homes '' terminate with the beginning of Lent, 
others continue later in the spring. If one has 
no desire to entertain so frequently, she may 
be at home once in two weeks, or may have a 
brief series of Days for which she sends out 
special cards. For the ordinary once a week * * At 
Home *' the day is designated on the visiting 
card. Upon the day appointed a woman should 
not forget that she should be on hand to receive 
her guests. This may seem, to the uninitiated, 
rather superfluous advice, but it is not, really. 
It would surprise them to know how frequently 
women offend in this matter — ^not women of good 



S22 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

breeding and experience, but those whose foot- 
hold on the social ladder is more or less in- 
secure, and who think it rather a good joke, 
upon the whole, to play truant on their ** At 
Home ' ' day, if there is something more inter- 
esting in view in the way of pleasure. 

A woman who appoints a day for receiving 
callers is quite justified in declining to see any 
one who calls socially upon another day than 
that set aside. The latter-day ** Not at home,** 
which many people look upon as a falsehood 
pure and simple, is nothing more than one of 
the little conventionalities of society, and is 
very generally understood to mean that the per- 
son called upon is not receiving. It is not in- 
tended to convey the impression that she is lit- 
erally absent from her house. 

On ** At Home ** days the servant stands in 
the hall, ready to open the door promptly to 
callers. Where a butler is employed his duties 
are rather more strenuous than those of a maid, 
since he must announce the names of vis- 
itors at the drawing-room door, attend a lady 
to her carriage with an umbrella in case it 
rains, and assist a gentleman with his outer 
coat, etc. The servant may receive the cards 
of callers upon a small tray, or a larger tray 
may stand conveniently at hand, so that each 
caller may deposit his or her card. The 



CALLS t23 

hostess on an ^^ At Home " day, unless it is a 
very large reception, need not stand at the 
drawing-room door to receive her guests, but 
should simply rise and greet each newcomer, 
and give her as much personal attention as she 
can without neglecting others. Eefreshments 
are served as directed in the chapter on * * After- 
noon Teas." When a guest leaves, the hostess 
does not accompany her to the door. She rises 
as they exchange the courtesies of adieu and 
stands until the guest turns toward the door. 
If no other guests are present, however, and 
the hostess so desires, she may accompany a 
woman caller to the street door. Formal calls 
should not last less than fifteen minutes nor 
more than half an hour. A caller should not 
leave without a word of farewell to her hostess, 
even though she may find it awkward to gain 
her attention. A tactful hostess has an eye to 
arrivals, that she may be ready with her greet- 
ing, and she will be quick also to discern the 
desire of a caller to wish her good-afternoon. 
If she is engaged in conversation with others 
she will not keep the departing guest waiting 
uncomfortably, but will gracefully manage to 
give her an opportunity to approach her. The 
words of farewell should be brief ; there should 
be no attempt at conversation after the hostess 
has risen for the little ceremony of adieux. 



J24 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

This awkward habit of so many people is tire- 
some in the extreme to the hostess, and is usu- 
ally a source of discomfort to the caller herself, 
who is conscious that she is unable to leave a 
room gracefully. There is an old saying to the 
effect that the best of a visit takes place at the 
door; but this is far from the truth where the 
modern formal call is concerned. There is no 
opportunity in polite society to-day for the 
female bore, or boor, to keep her tired but pa- 
tient hostess standing in a draughty hall for 
half an hour after the first word of farewell 
has been spoken. When a call has extended to 
its proper duration, the watchword of the twen- 
tieth-century caller is, or should be, ** Go.*' 

A gentleman, when making a call, should rise 
from his chair when a woman caller enters and 
remain standing until she is seated. He also 
stands when she rises to leave, and whenever 
his hostess leaves her seat. A gentleman should 
never, in making calls, wear his overcoat into 
the drawing-room; in regard to the propriety 
of carrying his hat and cane into the room there 
is still much argument; as a rule, he leaves 
these articles in the hall with his coat. A lady 
wears her hat or bonnet and wrap while making 
a call, but if she has worn a stormcoat or similar 
over-garment, it should be left in the hall. 



BALLS 

Possibly no other form of hospitality gives 
such unquestioned happiness and enjoyment 
to the old and young alike as a successful 
dance. 

Whether we dignify it by the formal, high- 
sounding title of '* Ball,** or speak of it more 
intimately as just '* a plain, ordinary dance,** 
there is a joyousness in the thought, and a 
music in the very words themselves, that in- 
stantly recall the voluptuous waltz or the 
cheery two-step, and, mayhap, the memory of 
some never-to-be-forgotten occasion. 

Dinners, receptions — ^nay, even the wedding 
of our best friend — ^may be enjoyed and in the 
course of time forgotten, but the memory of 
that first dance, our first ball, can never grow 
dim. Whether it be as debutante or hostess, 
the event is a memorable one. Yet that which 
otherwise would have been counted among the 
most pleasant memories of our lives, is some- 
times marred by the conduct of some person 
who, under no circumstances, should have had 
the entree to the room. 

125 



126 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

This brings us to the all-important question 
of invitations, or 

WHOM TO INVITB 

To the successful entertainer this is always 
the most troublesome phase of the whole under- 
taking, for it is given to but few of us to go 
through life free from obligations save to those 
in our own social set. It almost invariably 
happens, therefore, that the more or less 
publicity attending a private ball compels us to 
invite people from business or other reasons, 
who do not enjoy any social intimacy with us, 
and for whose acceptability to other guests it 
would be difficult for us to vouch. Yet one 
such person may ruin the work of the most 
charming hostess. The guest has the right to 
demand that he or she will not be faced with 
an unpleasant situation, and the diplomatic 
hostess will exercise the most skilful care in the 
supervision of her invitation list, to the end 
that no untoward incident shall mar any of her 
guests' enjoyment. The first great recognized 
leader of New. York's fashionable society fre- 
quently declared that he had narrowed the num- 
ber of the elect to four hundred by eliminating 
all those who were ** plainly ill at ease in a 
ballroom.'* Proper as this arbitrary ruling 
may or may not have been to the fashionables 



BALLS 127 

of New York, it is a manifestly absurd proposi- 
tion so far as regards the great majority of the 
people of these United States. And yet the 
point of view, shorn of the extreme to which 
Mr. Ward McAllister took it, is eminently true. 
Having, therefore, carefully chosen the people 
we are desirous of entertaining, the matter of 
invitations becomes paramount. 

THE INVITATION" 

to a formal ball should be issued, at the very 
least, ten days before the event is to take place ; 
preferably from ten to twenty-four days. Too 
frequently the present prevailing laxity in the 
observance of social conventions leads to care- 
lessness in the minor details of the relationship 
between hostess and guest, and vice versa, but 
experience will prove that those who are scru- 
pulously exact in these matters are more than 
repaid by the smoothness of their social life and 
the value which others place on their acquaint- 
anceship. 

The question of adding the letters E. S. V. P. 
to an invitation to a private ball is a vexed one. 
In the majority of instances they are omitted, 
and yet it is perfectly permissible to use them, 
and, in some instances, absolutely necessary. 



m THE MODERN HOSTESS 

FOBMS OP INVITATION 

vary very little, but any reputable stationer 
will be found to carry samples of those in 
vogue. The following forms, however, will be 
found to cover any average occasion : 

(a) 

Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Kay 

request the pleasure of your company 

on Tuesday evening, December the first 

at half -past nine o'clock. 
Dancing. 68 Fair Sina. 

R. 8. V. P. 

(&) 
Mrs. August Schofield, 

Miss Schofield, 

At Home 

Thursday, February the sixth, 

at ten o'clock. 

Dancing. 240 Park Avenus. 

Cotillon after twelve o'clock. 



BALLS 129 

It must not be forgotten, however, that if 
for any reason at all engraved invitations are 
not obtainable, or perhaps not desired, written 
invitations, beside serving exactly the same 
purpose, are equally correct. If written, the 
very best white or gray note paper should be 
used, and the text worded exactly like those 
that are engraved. Also it should be sealed 
under cover of one envelope and forwarded 
whenever possible by messenger, using the 
postal service for those only who are not con- 
veniently within reach. Engraved invitations 
receive a somewhat different treatment. If 
sent by messenger, but a single envelope is em- 
ployed, while, if mailed, two are employed, the 
first or inner cover, unsealed, bearing the name 
only of the person for whom it is meant, while 
on the outer envelope is inscribed the full name 
and address. 

It will be noticed that in the example forms 
already given, the single word *' Dancing *' 
suflSces to inform the recipient of the nature of 
the evening's entertainment. More would be 
superfluous and distinctly bad form. 

When it is desired to have the guests present 
some little time before the hour set for danc- 
ing, as in the instance of a special musical pro- 
gramme, the difference in the hour set for the 
invitation, and the separate mention of the 



130 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

hour when dancing is to begin, should be suffi- 
cient notice to the recipient. 

THB COTILLON 

Occasionally the cotillon is designed to oo« 
cupy the entire evening, in which case the in-- 
vitation might read: 

ic) 

Mr. and Mrs. Percival Lee 

request the pleasure of 



company on Tuesday evening, March first, 

at ten o'clock. 

Cotillon. FaHjffimr Brwk Aunue. 

THB DINNEB DANCB 

has become increasingly popular, and very nat- 
urally so, seeing that the intimacy of the din- 
ing-room forms the happiest prelude to the 
gayety of the dance, and the stiffness that too 
often accompanies the more formal ball is en- 
tirely absent. Then, again, the guests are 
fewer in number and invariably congenial. For 
an affair of this character two different sets 
of invitations are required, the first being the 



BALLS t3f 

ordinary engraved dinner cards of the hostess 
with the word * * Dancing ' ' and the hour writ- 
ten in the lower left-hand comer, and the sec- 
ond, designed for those who are invited for the 
dancing only, consisting of the regular ' ^ At 
Home '* cards, with *' Dancing '' and the hour 
written in the lower left-hand comer. Better 
still, particularly if the affair is small and in- 
formal, the hostess could substitute for the 
card above described the regular visiting card 
of herself and husband or daughter with : 

(d) 
Dancing at 



January the ninth 

R. s. r. p. 

written in the lower left-hand comer. This 
method has the advantage of conveying a 
degree of cordiality to the recipient that is 
impossible with the stiff and stilted invitation 
coiiched in the third person, or even the regula- 
tion ' * At Home ' * card, hence its growing em- 
ployment. 

THE DEBUTANTE 

is frequently introduced into society through a 
dance or ball, invitations for which are similar 



J32 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

to those already described in examples (a) and 
(6). If the latter of these two is used, the 
calling card of the debutante should be enclosed 
with each invitation. A more direct announce- 
ment is that conveyed in the following form : 

ie) 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Mount 

request the pleasure 
of introducing their daughter 

Mary 
to 



on Thursday evening, March the third, 
at half after nine o* clock. 

200 WcuMngton Awmtu. 
ASSEMBLY DANCES, SUBSCBIPTION BALLS, ETC. 

Invitations to these popular forms of enter- 
tainment frequently partake of a degree of 
originality denied to the strictly private dance. 
The conventional form, however, is here given : 



BALLS 133 

The pleasure of 



company is reqy£sted at the 

First Assembly 

in Library HaU 

on Tuesday evening, November fourth, 

from nine untU one o'clock. 

R. 8. V. P. 

Patronesses: 

Mrs. De Lancey Barrett, Mrs. Thos. Wilson, 
Mrs. Tremont, Mrs. Barry. 

Usually the number of invitations allowed to 
each subscriber is clearly understood and 
loyally adhered to; but every little while care- 
lessness creeps in and the agreement is trans- 
gressed. Various plans have been tried to pre- 
vent this injustice, but the voucher system has 
been found to work the best. The *' voucher " 
is a small card inscribed as follows : 



134 THE MOIXBRN HOSTESS 



iff) 

First Assembly 

Gentleman's Voucher. 

Admit 

on Tuesday evening, November the fourth. 

Compliments of 

The same form does for either sex, substi- 
tuting ** Lady's *' for ** Gentleman's " before 
the word ** voucher." In sending out this in- 
vitation the subscriber should invariably en- 
close his own visiting card. Another form, the 
occasion for which is sufficiently indicated by 

its wording, is : 

{h) 

The pleasure of 



company is requested at 

The Volunteer Firemen's BaU, 

at the Country Club, 

on Wednesday evening, April the second, 

at ten-thirty o'clock. 
R R r. p. to 

Ths Committee^ 

Reliance Hook aiid Ladder^ 

Main Street. 



BALLS laS 

BAL POTJDBE, FAKOT DBSS8, OOSXUia BALLS, BTO, 

Invitations to these fascinating entertain- 
ments are couched similarly to those nsed for 
the ordinary ball^ except that the distingnish- 
ing feature of the affair is clearly stated, as 2 

(i) 
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Cromwell 

request the pleasure of 



company on Tuesday evening, November first, 

at ten 0^ clock. 
Bal Poudre. 

or 

OMiume: BaedMionary era 

(oi (A# eoat f¥ky he). 

fM Fhrtyihe Sireei, 

0HABIT7 AND OTHER BALLS 

(J) 

The pleasure of your company is requested 

at the 

Annual Charity Ball 

To be given in the Opera House on 

Wednesday evening, 

February the third, at nine o'clock. 

Cards of admission, five dollars. 



f% THE MODERN HOSTESS 

Very large sheets of thick paper, or substan- 
tial cards, are used for the engraved invitations. 
Frequently the names of the ladies and gentle- 
men serving on the Reception and Floor Com- 
mittees, respectively, are printed underneath 
the invitation. 

EXTRA GUESTS 

Sometimes it happens that invited guests are 
also entertaining guests of their own, and 
as this may easily become a source of much 
worry to the hostess in the case of a private 
ball, it will be well to discuss the problem be- 
fore proceeding to another subject. 

It is not necessary to invite Miss Smith, -per- 
sonally known or unknown to the hostess, 
simply because she is a guest of Miss Norman, 
to whom an invitation is sent as a matter of 
course. But Miss Norman may ask personally, 
or write, for an invitation for her friend, in 
which case the hostess may decline or grant the 
request. Failure to obtain the necessary in- 
vitation for one's guests should be accepted 
philosophically, as such incidents, besides being 
of every-day occurrence, are positively un- 
avoidable. In case of a declination the follow- 
ing form may be used, not the least of its ad- 
vantages being that it is invariably true, a 
quality which does not always distinguish our 
social amenities and conventions. 



BALLS t37 

(fc) 

Edgewater, May 28th, 19 — . 
My Deab Miss Nobman : 

So general has been the acceptance of our 
invitations that I begin to doubt the capacity 
of my rooms. It would be a great pleasure to 
include Miss Smith, but my limitations in the 
matter positively prevent me. You will, I am 
sure, realise my difficulty and forgive my in- 
ability to respond more hospitably to your 
request. 

Very sincerely yours, 

Maby Walleb. 

My Deab Miss Nobman : 

Surely. By all means bring your friend 
Miss Smith. My cards are exhausted, but 
Edith will call at once and give the invitation 
personally. 

Most cordially yours, 

Maby Walleb. 

So much for the sending of invitations. 
Whether the invitation bear the letters R. S. 
V. P. or not the recipient is expected, by all the 
laws of good breeding, to respond promptly. 
When the invitation is formally written in the 



138 THE MODERN H0STES6 

third person, the reply should be sent within 
forty-eight hours. The two forms following 
cover this case : 

Mr. and Mrs. Vernon Black 
accept with pleasure 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Smithson's 
kind invitation for Tuesday evening, 



Or 



February the third. 



Mr. W. Francis White 

regrets that absence from town 

will prevent his acceptance of 

Mr. and Mrs. Harmon* s 

kind invitation for Monday evening, 

April the fourth. 



In the case of assembly or subscription 
dances, the reply should be directly to the mem- 
ber or subscriber to whom the favor is owed^ 
as: 



BALLS 139 

' • I I ■ 11 1 1 -^ii 1 1. Ill I.I ^ 

48 Vicars Lane, 
November 16, 19 — . 
My Deab Mbb. O'Connell: 

It is with genuine pleasure I am able to ac- 
cept your invitation to the First Subscription 
Ball, on the evening of December the first. 
Trusting that I may see you there, 

Believe me, 
Most sincerely yours, 

Hebbebt Collins. 
Or 

My Deab Mbs. O'Connbll: 

With great regret I am compelled to return 
the cards for the First Subscription Dance. 
Business necessity of the most imperative de- 
scription alone prevents me. My disappoint- 
ment is all the more keen because of the inr- 
variably briUiant and successful character of 
the dances, which I enjoy very much. 

Believe me, with many thanks. 

Sincerely yours, 

Hebbebt Collikb. 

the essentials 

The thousand and one details that go to 
make up the success of an entertainment of 
any sort require much careful forethought on 
the part of those giving the affair. For in- 



140 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

stance, the entire night might be spoiled for a 
guest by the omission of some trivial matter 
of convenience. In the matter of a ball or 
dance it is most important that guests should 
be protected from the weather, or the idle curi- 
osity of a street crowd, by some sort of covered 
way from the street curb to the house entrance. 
The pathway also should be covered by a strip 
of matting or carpet. A servant or other male 
employe, in livery if possible, should be present 
to open the carriage doors, give duplicate car- 
riage checks to guests and coachmen, and other- 
wise make himself useful. Arrived at the en- 
trance door, the guest is directed by the butler, 
or his substitute, to the cloak- or dressing- 
rooms, where, in the case of ladies, maids are 
in attendance to assist in removing their wraps, 
numbering each parcel, and giving a duplicate 
number-check to the guest. In the gentlemen 's 
dressing-room, a man should be present to per- 
form similar services for the male guests. It 
is the part of wisdom to have in the ladies' 
dressing- or cloak-room some one qualified and 
equipped for the repair of torn dresses. A 
much appreciated courtesy is the placing of 
cigars, cigarettes, brandy, soda, or other ef- 
fervescents in the gentlemen's dressing-room. 
This, of course, is only done when a regular 
smoking-room is impossible. 



BALLS Hi 

The Floor. — ^Nothing is more necessary for 
the dancers' enjoyment than a good floor, and 
yet snch is the exception rather than the rale. 
A good parquet surface, smooth, but not too 
slippery, makes a beautiful as well as sBsthet- 
ically pleasing ballroom floor, but any hard 
wood, if it is evenly and closely laid and 
smoothly polished, will serve equally well. 
Fortunately the present trend is to polished 
floors and large rugs, art-squares, etc., so that 
the average room is easily converted into a 
dancing hall. If the room is carpeted and it is 
not desirable to remove the carpet, the floor is 
sometimes covered with a thickness of heavy 
upholsterer's paper, over which is stretched a 
covering of heavy unbleached cotton cloth, 
drawn very smooth. At the best this is a some- 
what unwholesome practice, as the fine particles 
of linen and dust get into the lungs. If at all 
possible, or if the floor is even moderately 
decent, it will be far more conducive to the 
night's enjoyment to take up the carpets. 
Paraffine wax, or a sprinkling of commeal, will 
improve even the best of floors. 

Music. — This important feature is frequently 
the most diflScult problem to solve — so many 
considerations enter into the question. Ex- 
pense, more often than not, is the least of the 
items to be considered, but it is well to point 



142 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

out that the best instrumental musicians are 
usually members of the musical unions and de- 
mand a fixed rate of pay. This rate is by no 
means excessive, and at the same time the host- 
ess may leave the details of the music entirely 
to them after she has made known the number 
and description of dances that will be required, 
confident in the knowledge that the musicians 
will be capable. Too often the disputes and 
petty jealousies of local musicians,' and the fact 
that they rarely practise ensemble playing, 
make it absolutely impossible for any one to 
use their services. It is cheaper in the end to 
send to the nearest centre and engage profes- 
sional men. The scale of remuneration in New 
York and Chicago is approximately $8.00 per 
man for a large public ball ; $7.00 for a similar 
private affair; $6.00 where the rate, of ad- 
mission is $1.00 or over; under this amount, 
$5.00; private all-night dances, $5.00; and for 
afternoon dances, from 2 to 6 p. m., $3.00. The 
leader is paid from $3.00 to $5.00 extra for his 
work in leading, supplying the music, and 
supervising the musical work generally. These 
figures do not include travelling or other ex- 
penses incidental to an " out-of-town ' * engage- 
ment. 

With regard to the number and composition 
of the orchestra, the size of the room and the 



BALLS )43 

importance of the occasion will be the deter- 
mining elements. For a small house dance, the 
piano is usually sufficient; but care should be 
taken to have it in tune, and place it in such a 
position that the treble, or upper part of the 
piano, is nearest the dancers. A violin could 
be added, and possibly a flute or clarionet. The 
following instruments might be secured in the 
order they are named, according as there is 
need: second violin, ^cello, comet, bass, viola, 
trombone, horns, tympans, drum, cymbals, 
etc. The great artistic consideration is that 
the music shall not be noisy, and, if pos- 
sible, the players are placed in a gallery or on 
a raised platform. A free use of palms and 
other foliage will kill any stilted platform 
effect. A good point to remember is that mu- 
sicians are merely human beings, with the same 
characteristics as the people on the floor. It 
should be seen, therefore, that the orchestra 
is so placed as not to compel the players to 
cross the floor or interfere with the guests in 
coming and going from the platform. A little 
friendly interest in their comfort will mean 
vastly more accommodating players, something 
the younger element among the dancers will be 
quick to appreciate. A word of warning in 
regard to the piano will be particularly val- 
uable to those who have not had the experience 



S44 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

to which it relates. The average piano is too 
low in pitch to be used in connection with such 
instruments as the horns, cornet, clarionet, and 
flute. It is always advisable to call in the tuner 
and notify him that the piano is wanted for 
service with orchestral instruments, so that if 
he cannot alter the pitch sufficiently, there will 
be time to make other arrangements. Time 
and time again, good instrumentalists have 
come from a distance, only to find that they 
cannot play with the piano that had been pro- 
vided for them. 

Dance Programmes. — These may be placed 
in the dressing-rooms, or else tendered by a 
servant from a neat tray, and stationed just 
outside the ballroom door. 

Seats. — There should be a plentiful supply 
of sofas or chairs lining the walls of the ball- 
room, as well as in the halls and other rooms. 
A number of light folding chairs, which the 
guests can use as they please, will be found 
very acceptable as well as useful. 



BALLROOM ETIQUETTE 

Arrival. — Custom apparently decrees that 
*' nobody must put in an appearance until 
every one is there,'' but, custom to the con- 
trary, notwithstanding, there still remains a 



BALLS 145 

happy medium between arriving inconveniently 
early and unpleasantly late. 

Entering the Ballroom. — ^After leaving the 
dressing-rooms, the next rendezvous is at the 
head or foot of the stairs, as the case may be, 
where ladies meet their escorts and proceed to- 
gether to the ballroom. Under no circum- 
stances must they enter arm-in-arm; the gen- 
tleman always permitting the lady to precede 
him by a step or so. In the case of several 
ladies entering at the same time, the eldest has 
precedence ; married ladies precede the unmar- 
ried. Guests shake hands with or bow to the 
hostess immediately upon arrival, and as soon 
as possible after entering the ballroom the gen- 
tlemen of the party should seek out and shake 
hands with the host. The old-fashioned custom 
of having the name of each arrival called out 
at the door by a man in livery is still in favor, 
but, as a general rule, most hostesses omit the 
detail. 

Dancing Introductions. — The great majority 
of dancing introductions are secured in the 
early part of the night. According to the strict 
code, a gentleman desiring to know a lady 
would just seek an introduction to her husband, 
father, or chaperon, and through one of these 
he would secure the desired presentation. As 
a rule, an invitation to dance immediately f ol- 



146 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



lows the introduction. All men guests are ex- 
pected to seek the earliest opportunity of being 
presented to the young ladies of the house, and 
to ask them to dance. It is not permissible for 
a man to ask a woman whom he does not know 
to dance with him; neither is it the correct 
thing for a lady to pass without recognition a 
gentleman with whom she has danced the 
cotillon, although she is permitted the option 
of recognizing or not, as she chooses, a gentle- 
man whom she has met at a ball. Under no 
circumstances should a gentleman be intro- 
duced to a lady without first securing her per- 
mission, and similarly it would be the height 
of bad form for a man to attempt to enter into 
a conversation with a lady whom he does not 
know, simply ^ because he happened to have 
waited upon her at supper time* 

If there are no dance programmes, the man 
uses some such conventional formula as, * * May 
I have the pleasure of this dance ? ' ' or, * * May I 

have the next waltz, Miss I '' Occasionally 

a lament is heard that the old time cut-and- 
dried phrases are being dropped in favor of 
our more modem looseness of expression, and 
that, consequently, young people are losing the 
touch of chivalrous respect that should mark 
the man's attitude to the woman. However 
true this may be, it may reasonably be urged 



I 



BALLS 147 

that an occasional deviation from the strict 
pattern of the law is not in itself a very great 
crime, so long as the manner and demeanor of 
the petitioner are correct. When asked to dance 
the lady is expected to rise at once, accepting 
the offer graciously, but not effusively. It will 
be difficult for her to refuse a dance unless her 
card is full, or she pleads fatigue, in which case 
she should be careful not to accept another 
offer for that dance. Neither should she dance 
more than two or three times with the same 
man unless she is prepared to risk the notice 
such preference would surely excite. The 
social code demands that men and women alike 
be careful of their dancing engagements and 
impartially strict in their discharge. The man, 
in particular, should be very prompt in claiming 
the dances promised him, for it is an unpardon- 
able rudeness not to be on hand when the music 
strikes up. There are some fortunate persons 
who never seem to be overheated, out of breath, 
dizzy, pant more than is correct, or suffer from 
chronic blushing — ^and these are indeed to be 
envied. Yet it is possible for any person to 
develop more or less control in any one of these 
directions. 

Masters of the art of dancing seem to have 
solved the problem of conversing naturally and 
easily with a partner, no matter what conditions 



148 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

of whirling rhythm for the moment obtain. 
Even to the stolid non-dancing man there is a 
fascination in the rhythmic progression of two 
snch dancers. The easy movements of the 
man, perfectly composed and in absolute unison 
with his partner and the music, — the swaying, 
graceful, pliant woman, yielding perfect obedi- 
ence to every throb of the melody that is carry- 
ing her flying feet through space, and com- 
pletely responsive to the movements of her 
partner, — ^this is dancing. It does not follow 

r 

that, to obtain such a result, the partners 
should have danced together frequently, or 
even that they should be temperamentally akin 
to each other ; it needs only skill in the steps of 
the dance and a natural susceptibility to rhythm, 
for the mysterious telepathy of the dance — or 
whatever else the psychologist prefers to call 
it — ^will instantly enable two such partners to 
dance as one. Experts maintain that the secret 
of a graceful, easy dancing movement lies in 
allowing the body to work automatically— of 
course after being well trained — ^and keeping 
in practice. When the man is unable to ** re- 
verse '* easily, or when he happens to have a 
partner whom he cannot even pioneer, he will 
find it the part of wisdom to steer clear of the 
vortex as much as possible, seeking the quieter 
parts of the floor. 



BALLS 149 

Manner in Dancing. — Nothing puts the stamp 
of being a stranger to good society on a man so 
much as an awkward manner of holding his 
partner. The correct position is for hhn to 
place his arm half-way about her waist, as a 
means of support and guidance, his hand rest- 
ing on the middle of her back, near her waist. 
Her right hand rests lightly in his left— hers 
uppermost. The man's elbow is bent slightly 
in holding his partner's hand in position, which 
ordinarily is a little below the lady's shoulder. 
Her right arm consequently is almost straight, 
while her left hand is placed on her partner's 
shoulder, or, if necessary, on his arm, just 
below the shoulder. 

Time was when the waltz was regarded with 
very great suspicion. In fact, at the beginning 
of the nineteenth century, even liberal, gayety- 
loving Paris compromised in the dispute as to 
the propriety of the newly-imported German 
dance by occasionally giving two ladies to each 
gentleman, or two gentlemen to the lady. The 
great objection, apparently, was the ** danger- 
ous " tete-a-tete the waltz afforded, with the 
* * unseemly arm about the waist ' ' running it a 
close second. Sometimes it happens — ^although 
very rarely, it should be said, in justice to 
modern society — ^that a man forgets himself 
and unconsciously holds his partner too tightly. 



150 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

The instant dropping of the lady's hand from 
the man's shoulder so that it rests between her 
partner and herself will usually bring the man 
to his senses. If this should not succeed, the fer- 
tility of resource of the average American girl 
will easily supply some pretext which will free 
her from her unpleasant partner, and at the 
same time bring home to the man the lady's 
evident displeasure. 

The Interval between Dances. — ^After every 
dance, a young lady should return to her chap- 
eron, unless the affair is private or semi-pri- 
vate, as in the case of subscription dances, 
when she is usually accorded more latitude. It 
is the privilege of the man, after dancing, to 
walk about the rooms a little, securing any re- 
freshments his companion may desire, or sit- 
ting a while in the cooler air, after which he 
may plead another engagement and escort the 
lady back to her chaperon. The necessity for 
pleading another engagement should never 
arise if the lady in the case is at all careful, 
for certainly the suggestion that she be taken 
back to her chaperon would come with far 
better grace from her. 

The unchaperoned girl is responsible for 
many awkward situations. For instance, when, 
after having danced and promenaded a little 
while, the music begins the next dance, and both 



BALLS 151 

she and her partner discover they have no en- 
gagementy it is the duty of the lady to find some 
means of releasing the man. This is not al- 
ways possible, and the result is a painful sit- 
uation. Practically the best and only thing to 
do is to laugh the incident away by a frank con- 
fession of the dilemma. She may also be made 
to suffer most keenly because of the lack of a 
chaperon; but whenever a girl finds herself in 
an unpleasant predicament, she has the right 
to call on any older lady present for the con- 
ventional privilege of her chaperonage. The 
lady whose support is asked for may be a total 
stranger, but that does not alter the case; she 
(the dancer) should ask her escort to leave her 
at the lady's side, and after his departure ex- 
plain the circumstances of the situation to her. 

A well-bred girl is particularly attentive to 
her mother or chaperon, no matter how full of 
enjoyment her own night may be. She will 
present her friends to her whenever possible, 
and every little while will stop and spend a 
moment with her, if only to let her see how 
heartily her charge is enjoying herself. At 
this point it will be well to take up the more 
important varieties of dancing entertainments- 

Subscription Balls. — ^At these functions the 
patronesses form a semicircular group near 
the entrance to the ballroom, greeting the 



152 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

guests with gracious bows, or giving their hand 
to distinguished guests, or personal friends. 
The moment supper is announced the leader of 
the patronesses takes the arm of the guest she 
would honor, and the rest follow. The guests 
sit together, if the supper is to be served in 
courses. 

Cinderella Dances were originally meant to 
close promptly at midnight, but the name, in 
that sense at least, is frequently a misnomer. 

Assembly Dances are probably the most im- 
portant as well as the most exclusive forms of 
subscription balls. In fashionable centres the 
** Assembly ** has a social oflSce very like the 
presentation at the English Court, in that it is 
at these affairs very many of our debutantes 
are introduced to society. 

The Private Ball has the advantage of being 
free in a manner from what has been described 
as the *' red tape of social exhibition," and 
the clever hostess will confine her invitations 
to those whom she believes to be congenial to 
each other. 

House Dances differ little in the matter of 
preparations from those already described. 
Possibly the only difference is in their greater 
simplicity. There should be an awning and 
catpet from the curb to the entrance, and the 
usual outside men should be employed to f acili- 



BALLS }53 

tate the comfort of the guests, both coming and 
going. Dressing-rooms are provided, where 
the maids who have accompanied their mis- 
tresses may stay until the dance is over, or 
until their mistresses leave. The careful host- 
ess will invite fully ten per cent, more men than 
women. One or two friends usually are asked 
to make the necessary introductions between 
the guests, because the hostess is unable to 
leave her place while the guests are arriving. 
When supper time arrives, the host leads the 
way with some lady to whom he wishes to dis- 
play special consideration. 

Dinner Dances are among the most success- 
ful of all dancing entertainments. Ordinarily 
the dining resources of the house are taxed to 
the limit, while others are invited for the danc- 
ing which is to follow. Dinner dance is a very 
elastic term, covering a variety all the way 
from the very smartest affair to the merest im- 
promptu of a handful of young people. Some 
of the most effective and ** ultra-smart '' din- 
ner dances have been arranged by the co-opera- 
tion of a few friends. Each one gives a dinner 
to twenty or more guests, after which they are 
driven to the house of still another hostess, 
who entertains with a cotillon and light supper. 
It will be seen that this idea is capable of a 
variety of applications. 



154 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

Costume Ball. — This form of amusement is 
not by any means as common in the United 
States or England as it is on the continent of 
Europe. Possibly the lack of that quality of 
vivid imagination which distinguishes the con- 
tinental European, and enables him to endow a 
costimae of the most ordinary material with 
almost royal splendor, is responsible for it^ but 
whatever the cause, the fact remains that the 
average American business man, and particu- 
larly the American paterfamilias, has a strong 
objection to arraying himself in the garments of 
any other period than his own. Yet the costume 
ball has an artistic and aesthetic value that is 
not to be denied. Another reason undoubtedly 
is that to the English-speaking races costume 
or fancy-dress balls are associated with the 
traditional masked balls of unlimited license. 
Nothing could be further from the truth, and 
undoubtedly the blame is to be laid at the door 
of the impressionistic French novelist, or, 
more correctly speaking, of his dull-witted 
English imitator. Certain it is that they are 
among the most elegant and interesting of so- 
ciety functions, and not by any means as ex* 
pensive as they would seem. The trouble is 
that the average American dreads the tawdry 
and loathes sham; and if the typical American 
girl is dressed as Mary Queen of Scots, it is 



BALLS 155 

safe to Bay that, instead of the *' stagey '* cos- 
tume that would tempt her most aristocratic 
French cousin, she is garbed in a dress that 
would probably have altered the world's his- 
tory had poor Queen Mary laid eyes on it. 
This is not by any means necessary, but so long 
as the present opinion prevails, just so long 
will the costume ball be limited to the few. 

A prominent feature is the court minuet, 
danced by selected and coached people, which 
invariably opens the ball. Of course a good 
teacher will be required if the dance is to be 
performed with the requisite dignity and state- 
liness, and the train and fan given their proper 
share of manipulation. From the point of view 
of the hostess, providing she can interest her 
desired guests in the matter, nothing could 
redound more to her credit as an entertainer, 
for it is characteristic of humanity that they 
take far greater interest and enjoyment in any- 
thing which gives them employment or taxes 
their ingenuity. The centre of interest ceases 
to be the hostess or her establishment, but is 
instead the bewildering audience of which they 
themselves are a part. A little originality on 
the part of the projectors of a costume ball 
may lead to, or be the means of, any number 
of amusing frolics. 

Barn Dances are among the social vagaries 



156 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

of autmnn, although the fun and frolic to be 
derived from them are independent of either 
time, place, or season. A description of one 
given by one of the most successful hostesses 
in the East will give a general idea of the really 
smart bam dance. The stable, one of the most 
luxurious in the ** animal world/' was the 
scene of the festivity. The horses were sent 
elsewhere, and the vacant stalls converted into 
a veritable paradise of greenery, and made lux- 
urious with rugs and seats covered with the 
reddest of red cushions, and filled with the most 
deliciously aromatic pine balsam. The box- 
stalls served as the buflfet, from which were dis- 
pensed lemonade, punch, and the usual refresh- 
ments incidental to all entertainments. The 
walls were hung with leaves, grain, and garden 
foliage. The border of ripe wheat formed a 
very pointed contrast to the glowing maple 
leaves above. Japanese lanterns, suspended 
from the ceiling, sent soft rays of light through 
the autumn-tinted foliage, while on every hand 
tin sconces, enclosing lighted candles and 
dressed with bunches of bright leaves, lent their 
aid to the general effect. The favors for the 
cotillon consisted of whips, photograph frames 
in the shape of horseshoes or stirrups, tiny 
silver whistles, vegetables, fruits, etc., artisti- 
cally manufactured from silk, flowers in baskets 



BALLS 157 

of burs or birch bark^ and numerous other de- 
vices typical of rural life. Supper was an- 
nounced on the coach-horn, and was served at 
the house. The evening's frolic concluded with 
the dancing of the Virginia reel. 

Dancing Classes are a distinctive feature of 
the social life of all great American cities, and, 
in a lesser degree, of every American town. 
As a rule each ^^ set '^ has its own class, the 
dances being given in some suitable public 
room, hired for the occasion. A committee of 
ladies makes all arrangements for the affair — 
room, supper, music, and cotillon favors — ^and 
all invitations to membership are subjected to 
their censorship. Each member receives per- 
forated cards of admission, so that they may 
be readily detached and inscribed with the name 
of the guest and the date of each meeting. The 
expense, of course, is determined by the local 
conditions, but in large cities it averages about 
fifteen or sixteen dollars for a season of six 
meetings. The patronesses receive the young 
people, and make it their own special province 
to see that every member gets the maximum of 
enjoyment out of his membership, so far as 
dances, partners, favors, etc., are concerned. 

The Cotillon usually takes place after supper 
unless it is to be made the feature of the night, 
in which case the guests are invited exclusively 



fS8 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

for it, and supper is served at its close. The 
cotillon, or ** German,*' as it was originally, 
and is still frequently called, is said to have 
had its origin 7t the berman Court of Aix-la- 
Chapelle, at a ball given to the allied foreigners 
shortly after the battle of Waterloo. At any 
rate, that was the occasion of its first public 
prominence. Invitations for a cotillon should 
always include enough men to form a reserve 
in the event of failures to respond. The sexes 
should be as nearly as possible equal, the host- 
ess always remembering that the success of a 
cotillon rests on three important points: the 
selection of a leader, the choice of favors, and 
• the assignment of dancers. The chairs are 
numbered and backed against the walls in 
pairs; duplicates of the numbers are given to 
the men guests by the leader of the cotillon, or 
else drawn from a basket, neatly decorated, and 
presented to the guest immediately upon his 
arrival. In the case of friends who wish to 
sit together, an exchange is easily effected. 

The Leader of a Cotillon should be a man of 
resource, thoroughly posted in the duties of his 
position, and aware of, and prepared for, its 
difficulties. Once the hostess is assured of his 
tact, experience, and executive ability, it will be 
to her advantage to give him her fullest con- 
fidence. As a matter of fact, few men are will- 



BALLS 159 

ing to assume the responsibility unless forti- 
fied by the most absolute confidence of their 
hostess. Once the post is accepted, however, he 
should call promptly upon her and arrange a 
complete understanding as to figures, favors, 
etc. On the evening of the ball he should be 
present in good time, with his entire plan of 
campaign clearly and unalterably defined. Al- 
though he may, if he so elects, dance alone, cus- 
tom demands that he choose his hostess, if she 
is young, or possibly one of her daughters. 
Etiquette does not lay down any rule on the 
subject, however, and he would be entirely 
within his right if he chose some one else. He 
would place her at the head of the ballroom^ 
confident in her recognition of his enforced 
neglect of her in the pursuance of his many 
duties. The most successful leader is he who 
contrives to select figures that bring as many 
players as possible on the floor at the same 
time. He must enforce his authority courte- 
ously, gently, but very determinedly. What- 
ever his signals, whether a whistle or a clap of 
his hands, he must insist on the implicit obedi- 
ence of the dancers. He notifies the waiting 
couples by some such hurried warning as, 
** you are up, and you, and you,'* etc. In guid- 
ing them through the movement he offers his 
hand to the women, and directs the men when 



f ^ THE MODERN HOSTESS 

necessary by a touch on the arm. In the favor 
figures he (and his partner, should he have one) 
distributes the favors to the dancers while 
seated, or else directs them where they may be 
obtained. 

Cotillon Etiquette. — ^Partners are frequently 
engaged for the cotillon from the first moment 
the possibility of such an event is known, al- 
though there are invariably some engagements 
left open until the night of the dance. A guest, 
finding he is not acquainted with any of the 
ladies, should ask his hostess or a friend to in- 
troduce him to one. Under no circumstances 
should he dance * * stag ' ' when there are ladies 
without partners. Similarly, it is an unpar- 
donable sin for a man to a^ a lady for the 
cotillon or for supper, and then forget the en- 
gagement. He is expected to remind her of it 
the moment he sees her enter the room, and 
make sure that he is on hand in good time to 
claim her promise. Should he send his cotillon 
partner a bouquet — a courtesy which is per- 
fectly discretionary — ^the lady should show her 
appreciation of the gift by carrying the flowers 
or wearing them. He will inevitably send 
flowers on the night of the ball, if through sick- 
ness or other accident he has previously been 
compelled to forego the engagement. The lady 
equally is required to notify the gentleman tiie 



BALLS I6f 

moment she knows it will not be possible for 
her to keep the engagement. Although spe- 
cially true of the cotillon, the rule holds good 
in every dancing-room that the gentleman will 
devote most of his attention to his partner, 
giving to his neighbors no more attention than 
the circumstances demand. 

Sometimes, owing to a scarcity of men, the 
hostess is unable to find a partner for a woman 
guest, in which case it is incumbent upon the 
guest to relieve her hostess of the problem by 
going home. When the cotillon is left for the 
latter part of the evening, many of the older 
people take their leave before the dance com- 
mences. 

Nothing will bring upon a dancer a quicker 
dislike than to be disobedient to the signals of 
the leader, unless it be the practice of stealing 
dances, or dancing out of turn. 

When a man favors a girl he is expected to 
remain with her in the absence of her partner — 
should his own partner be dancing with another 
— ^until the man returns, when he will yield to 
him, and gradually bring his conversation to a 
close. The moment his own partner returns 
she is entitled to his entire attention. 

In the case of a girl favoring a man by offer- 
ing him the token of her preference, he must 
rise at once, and, thanking her, attach the favor 



ftt THE MODERN HOSTESS 

to his coat. After dancing with her he escorts 
her to her seat again, thanking her before leav- 
ing to rejoin his own partner. 

The *' souvenir '* is a favor of greater in- 
trinsic value, or handsomer than the rest, and 
exchanged between two partners. The unwrit- 
ten law regarding favors demands that the 
recipients of such favors shall make a return 
during the evening. The man must be espe- 
cially prompt in this respect. 

The Favors are arranged upon a couple of 
tables at the end of the room, much care being 
taken with their artistic arrangement. The 
hostess, assisted by friends, — or the patron- 
esses, as the case may be, — gives out the favors 
to those who, in their turn, present them to the 
persons with whom they hope to dance. Some- • 
times this duty is performed by the leader and 
his partner. It is not necessary to provide 
costly favors; the whole spirit of the cotillon 
is to make the favor the simple badge or mark 
of the popularity in which its recipient is held. 
They should be characterized by novelty, orig- 
inality, and daintiness rather than by the dull 
vulgarity of commonplace expensiveness. 

Debutante Dances. — To the fortunate girl in 
whose honor the festivity is held, the night of 
her fibpst ball as a new society recruit is one of 
the red-letter events of her life. Standing with 



BALLS S63 

her parents by the main entrance to the ball- 
room, or surrounded by a bevy of young friends 
as youthful and joyous as herself, the debutante 
is regarded as the central figure of the occasion. 
Arriving guests are introduced, or vice versa, 
by the mother or chaperon of the debutante, 
who, in turn, may introduce her assisting 
friends if she so desires. If her hands are free 
she is expected to offer her right hand in 
acknowledging introductions; failing this, a 
very cordial expression of her gratification is 
due to all who offer her their congratulations. 
She should honor all her dancing engagiaments, 
but must return after every dance to her 
mother's side, to share the task of receiving 
friends or bidding the departing guest fare- 
well. 

THE HOST 

There are other functions pertaining to the 
head of the family than those of a treasurer. 
Should his name appear on the invitations his 
wife issues, he must of necessity share in the 
actual work of receiving and entertaining 
guests. Notwithstanding the fact that the 
averd^ge American business man has little time 
— and more often than not still less inclination 
— ^for social affairs, his reputation for charming 
hospitality is world-wide. 

Loyalty to his family would seem to be the 



164 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

cardinal principle of his life, for his genial 
nature is always prepared to second the efforts 
of his wife and daughters in their hospitable 
plans and projects. Properly, his place is at 
his wife^s side welcoming the guests, although 
society does not stamp him a barbarian if he 
shirks the duty. Should he be a good dancer, 
he is required to place his ability at the dis- 
posal of his wife, who will see that he dances 
with those of the fair guests who seem least 
attended. If he is not a dancing man, he will 
still find a great field for the exercise of his 
conversational talents by giving himself up to 
the entertainment of the wallflowers and chap- 
erons. Also he must keep an eye on the neg- 
lected damsels and see that they get partners 
occasionally. In one respect he is his wife's 
private policeman, for she looks to him to see 
that there is no lounging in the doorways or 
cloakroom, and also that the liquid hospitality 
of the smoking-room does not enter into too 
close a rivalry with the ballroom. 

If there are sons in the family, they should 
devote themselves to seconding the efforts of 
their parents, making their own personal en- 
joyment wait upon that of their guests. At 
supper time the host takes in the most impor- 
tant chaperon present, seating her on his right 
hand* If it is a buffet supper, he takes in first 



BALLS t6S 

one, then another, looking after the comfort of 
all. He is assisted by his son, or sons, who 
throughout the evening have made it a special 
point to see that young men unprovided with 
partners have been properly introduced. In 
the matter of introductions it is not absolutely 
necessary for the host or his son to first ask 
the young lady whether she will permit the in- 
troduction, for to the host all guests are on the 
same plane. However, it is the wisest plan to 
observe caution and first ascertain the lady's 
wishes before making an introduction. 

THE HOSTESS 

The great problem to the average hostess is 
to reconcile the number of guests she feels she 
ought to invite with the space and facilities for 
entertaining at her disposal. At a musicale or 
club reception held in a private residence, 
crowding, while > very objectionable, is at least 
not altogether fatal to the success of the gather- 
ing, but at a ball or any other form of enter- 
tainment, where dancing is to be the chief at- 
traction, a crowded room is an abomination, 
and inevitable failure is the sure result. The 
wise hostess usually comes to the conclusion 
that it is better to hurt the feelings of a few 
than to spoil the enjoyment of all, and accord- 
ingly issues her invitations on this basis. 



166 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

There is a considerable difference between a 
ball and a dance or party. The former is an 
elaborate evening function, taxing to the limit 
the capacity of those giving the ball, and de- 
voted exclusively to dancing. On the other 
hand, an evening party is either a dance, or a 
dinner and dance; but in either event it is far 
less formal than a ball, and besides, being of 
smaller proportions, is usually over by mid- 
night. 

A growing custom in England as well as our 
own country is to engage some large public 
salon, transforming it for the occasion into 
the semblance of a private ballroom. In this 
manner it is possible to entertain to almost an 
unlimited extent. It is a practice strongly 
condemned throughout continental Europe, but 
no one familiar with the success which society 
leaders, here and* in England, have achieved in 
their use of the public rooms of Sherry's, Del- 
monico's, the Waldorf-Astoria, or the English 
Hotel Cecil, can doubt their very real advan- 
tages over even the most commodious city home. 
As a matter of fact, the great bulk of entertain- 
ing must of necessity take place within the four 
walls of the average parlor, in which case it 
would be well for the hostess to remember that 
two small entertainments, where each guest has 
an opportunity of enjoyment, are more to be de- 



r' 



BALLS 167 

sired than one big one that is crowded. When 
the entertainment is given in one's own home, 
the greatest care should be taken to see that 
the ventilation is so arranged that the tempera- 
ture may be kept between seventy and seventy- 
eight degrees. The rooms should be well 
lighted, but not glaring. 

It has been said that the good hostess is ab- 
solutely self -forgetful. Her manner in receiv- 
ing the guests conveys to each one the assur- 
ance of personal interest and her sense of grati- 
fication at seeing him in her house. Shy or 
diffident guests become instantly at home with 
her, and everywhere her tactful presence is felt. 
In the most natural way possible she has sup- 
plied a neglected girl with a partner, and that 
without offending her amour propre. Young 
men strive for her favor by doing her bidding 
wherever and whenever called upon. Lonely 
women sitting round the room, unsought and 
unattended, are not known at her entertain- 
ments, neither are small groups of idle men 
lounging round the doorways. 

Sometimes it happ^is that the hostess of the 
occasion is a stranger to many of the people 
present, having issued invitations on the visit- 
ing list of a friend, a method occasionally re- 
sorted to when entertaining a distinguished 
visitor, or introducing a daughter to society. 



ta THE MODERN HOSTESS 

Where such is the case, the cards of the friend 
whose list has been borrowed were enclosed 
with the invitation, and she is required to re- 
ceive with the hostess, presenting her to those 
guests who otherwise would be strangers to her. 
A good point for the hostess to remember, when 
giving a large ball elsewhere than in her own 
drawing-room, is to invariably invite the 
mothers of her unmarried women guests, leav- 
ing it to their discretion whether to be present 
or not. 

tHB GHAFEBON 

** A willing and unsung martyr ** is the way 
one writer describes that social saint, or sinner 
(according to the point of view), known as the 
chaperon! This, of course, does not apply to 
the young girl's most natural chaperon — her 
mother — for to her to watch over her child is 
a natural duty. The child's triumphs are her 
triumphs; the daughter's happiness is the 
mother's joy! 

It is the chaperon who is employed in order 
to satisfy the proprieties that is very often to 
be pitied. She it is who, with absolute disre- 
gard of self, devotes herself to the inventing 
of new pleasures in which she takes only an 
observer's part; who must remain wakeful, 
alert, sweet, and smiling until her young charge 



BALLS 169 

has sipped the very last drop of honey. But 
the form of chaperonage most unpleasant of 
all is to act in that capacity when the need for 
its necessity is not recognized. In such a pre- 
dicament it would be most natural to feel keenly 
the embarrassment of being unwelcome — ^yet 
such is frequently the fate of the chaperon. 
It will not, perhaps, be amiss to discuss the 
origin of chaperonage in this country. There 
is no doubt the idea is nothing more or less 
than the modem conception of the system 
which, from time immemorial, has regarded the 
woman as a chattel demanding more or less 
watchful care; yet who shall say that, in its 
modern usage, the system is not absolutely 
essential t The zealous imprisonment of Mo- 
hammedan femininity developed into the more 
civilized but scarcely less liberal custom of 
Spain. In France the chaperon first had her 
real perfection. The Anglo-Saxon followed, 
not so much from the necessity of it as because 
of the slavish English imitation of French 
fashions. In America it is found in its highest 
and most perfect form, for here it is regarded 
as an evidence of the tender respect and loving 
care with which young womanhood should be 
surrounded. It is one of the elegant conventions 
of miodern social life and the hall-mark of good 
society. Not very long ago chaperonage was 



170 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

bitterly assailed as the American counterpart 
of the Spanish duenna system. We were proud 
of the liberality of our traditions; the open, 
free intimacy that existed between our American 
boys and girls who, strong in their innate sense 
of moral responsibility, discretion, and mod- 
esty, resented the imputation which seemed in- 
separable from the idea of a chaperon. In 
brief, we were provincial enough to be able to 
formulate our own social laws and customs. 
Even to-day there are many among us who still 
maintain this position, notwithstanding the fact 
that the American man and woman are to-day 
among the leaders of the human family, and 
have a responsibility to civilization and the 
world at large never before attained by any 
other race or nation. 

To state the subject in a few words, chap- 
eronage enhances the value of the one chap- 
eroned, in which sense some one has said that 
** young men are apt to sigh for the fruit that 
hangs highest.'' It protects the* girl in a thou- 
sand ways, and saves her from the foul breath 
of scandal or the lying intrigues of an enemy. 
It supplies her with a friend and counsellor ex- 
perienced in the ways of the world of men and 
women, and saves the girl from herself. How 
often has some innocent, madcap prank of a 
light-hearted girl given rise to suspicions that 



BALLS m 

blighted her whole after life ! It is a safe prop- 
osition that, failing a mother's care, no yonng 
nnmarried girl should attend a public or semi- 
public ball. At the present day it is almost a 
universal custom to invite the mother or chap- 
eron of every girl guest to the most private 
and select of evening entertainments. Of 
course, when the mother or chaperon does not 
see the necessity of her attendance, she writes 
to the hostess, thanking her for the invitation, 
pleading an excuse, and sending a maid with 
her charge instead. 

BALL 8TJPPEB8 

There is a wide latitude in the matter of sup- 
pers of this description, but the final choice is 
always determined by the scope of the enter- 
tainment, rather than the facilities of the 
household culinary department. In these days 
of unobtrusive professional caterers all things 
are possible, so that the more ambitious the 
scope of the ball, the more importance will 
naturally be attached to the supper. To begin 
with the most important functions of this de- 
scription, it is usual to serve an elaborate meal 
at midnight. This is not all, however, for in 
some easily accessible comer is kept a constant 
supply of either champagne or claret cup, 
pimch, lemonade, tea, coffee, chocolate, hot 



172 THE MODERN H06TESS 

bouillon, — these latter kept at a drinkable tem- 
perature, — and served with cakes and tiny 
sandwiches. 

Frequently it happens that many guests con* 
fine their gastronomic attention to this source 
of supply rather than go through the formal, 
and ofttimes stupid, feast which has been so 
laboriously prepared for them. Few dining- 
rooms could bear the strain of the usual ball- 
room crush, so that the ballroom itself is occa- 
sionally made the scene of the midnight feast. 
At a signal from the hostess servants appear, 
and soon the floor is dotted by numerous small 
tables adapted for four people at most. The 
supper is served in courses, and (according to 
the time of year) may consist of clear soup 
or jellied consomme with rolls, lobster, terra- 
pin or game, hot pastry, jellied meats, salads, 
sandwiches, ices, coflfee, etc. Claret or cham- 
pagne, or more often both, are served, the or- 
chestra meanwhile supplying a musical back- 
ground to the scene. It will be seen that this is 
altogether too big an undertaking for the aver- 
age entertainer. More often than not the buffet 
supper suffices. Indeed, if it was put to the 
vote, there is practically little doubt that the 
vast majority of people — ^whether as guest or 
hostess — ^would much prefer the more con- 
venient buffet. Under such circumstances the 



BALLS S73 

family dining-room can be made to answer the 
purpose. Chairs are placed against the wall; 
the table is performing its traditional groan 
under the weight of the good things provided ; 
flowers, bonbons, fruit are in abundance; and 
when; at eleven o'clock or later, the doors are 
opened (no announcement is made) , guests come 
and go at their own sweet will. In winter time 
such hot dishes as creamed oysters with warm 
finger-rolls; lobster d la Newhurg; timbales of 
fish or meat; terrapin; minced meat, or the 
many other dishes of like character, may be 
served. Usually, however, a hot dish, salad, 
ices, sandwiches, rolls, fruit, bonbons, coffee, 
and punch cover all demands. Guests are at 
liberty to partake of all or any of the dishes 
offered, as they choose. Warm dishes, ices, and 
coffee are ordinarily served from the pantry by 
serving men or maids, and offered to the guests 
as they enter the room, together with the 
requisite forks, spoons, napkins, etc. It is a 
safe assertion that the average hostess will find 
it much cheaper, better, and more convenient 
generally to leave this whole matter in the 
hands of a caterer that she can trust, leaving 
her own man or maid to superintend the 
caterer. 

For a small dance, whether in town or coun- 
try, a hostess with a couple of maids will be 



174 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

amply able to satisfy all the demands of a 
buffet supper. The guests may help them- 
selves from a bowl of punch or lemonade placed 
on a table in the hall^ the servants seeing that 
clean glasses are constantly furnished. In 
summer time, of course, hot dishes would be 
out of the question. 

BALL DBESS FOB MEN AND WOMEN 

The most elaborate evening costume is se- 
lected for wear at a ball. Short-sleeved, de- 
colletee, hair dressed high, with jewels if pre- 
ferred, the well-bred woman strives to do honor 
to her hostess as well as herself by the care 
with which she has prepared for the occasion. 
No toilet, providing it is in good taste, is too 
elaborate to do honor to so brilliant an event 
as a formal ball. For the lesser functions, the 
hostess is always privileged more or less in the 
elaborate selection of her gowns, but, in the 
country, simplicity of attire and the careful use 
of jewels mark the woman of good society. 
The debutante wears white, or some other cloud- 
like material, delicately tinted, mayhap. A 
square or heart-shaped bodice ; lace sleeves or 
long gloves cover the arms, which, together 
with the total absence of jewels, gives an ex- 
quisitely sweet effect. She may wear jewels 
with her ball gowns, but even here it is best to 



BALLS 175 

use them sparingly. Youth is far more attract- 
ive than jewels. 

Dancing parties do not entail the same elab- 
orate attention to expensive garments as we 
have just described. 

Men wear the orthodox dress-suit or evening 
costume, winter and summer alike. Many 
freak attempts have been made to inject a little 
variety into the sombre garments custom has 
decreed for men, but thus far without avail. 

At military, hunt, and yacht-squadron balls, 
the members who are so entitled wear the cos- 
tume of their organization unless otherwise ar- 
ranged, but no guest who is not entitled to a 
uniform may do the same. 

If it happens that members of a yachting 
party are in the vicinity, the hostess may — if 
she knows them — ^invite them to her dance, giv- 
ing them permission to wear their white duck 
or flannel suits. Finally, the well-bred man or 
woman may always be trusted to wear the right 
dress at the right time. 



RECEPTIONS 

This great popularity of the afternoon recep- 
tion, at least from the hostess' point of view, 
is easily accounted for. The entertaimnent 
to be provided is, comparatively speaking, 
very simple, an almost milimited nmnber of 
guests may be invited for the same day, and 
when the hostess has seen to it that all of her 
preliminary arrangements have been properly 
made, she may feel free from those qualms that 
beset her on the eve of a dinner party or dance. 

If her appointments are correct, and if her 
visiting list enables her to invite a goodly num- 
ber of agreeable guests to her house, she may 
rest serene, confident in the prospect of dis- 
charging an accumulation of social obligations 
with no fear of a fiasco. Her guests will not 
demand novelty, or expect that her reception 
should differ materially from ninety-nine out 
of a hundred other similar entertainments. 

But, for this very reason, — that no original- 
ity is required in the details, — the hostess will 
be all the more particular to see, in making her 
preparations, that everything is done properly, 
and that such arrangements as she does make 

176 



RECEPTIONS 177 

are effective, in good taste, and convenient for 
her gaests. 

Everything should be of the very best that 
can be procured. The discriminating guest 
will be more agreeably impressed by simple, 
but elegant, and particularly delicious refresh- 
ments than by a vast display from the caterer's ; 
by a few superb flowers artistically arranged 
than by heterogeneous masses transplanted 
wholesale from the florist's window. 

The general tone of the rooms, the walls, 
hangings, etc., should be taken into considera- 
tion in selecting the flowers, candle-shades, or 
whatever will be striking in color, in the way of 
decoration; the final effect should, above all 
things, be harmonious. 

INVITATIONS 

For the elegant and elaborate reception, the 
invitations, which should be issued about two' 
weeks in advance of the date, follow the usual 
form : 

Mrs. and Mrs. John Henry Smith 

At Home 

on Thursday, June the first, 

from four until seven o* clock. 

Fifty 'two West Third Street. 



178 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

If the reception is only an afternoon affair 
to which men are not invited, of conrse the 
name of the hostess' husband does not appear 
with her own on the invitation. If the name of 
a daughter is to be given as well, it appears 
on a line directly below that of her mother. In 
case the reception is given to mark the debut 
of a younger daughter her name is given in 
full, below that of the elder, or else the name 
of the elder daughter is omitted altogether. 

If the entertainment be given in special 
honor of some other person, the name of such 
guest of honor appears at the bottom of the 
card of invitation, thus: 

To meet 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Jones. 

In the case of the mere ** informal tea,*' the 
invitation consists of simply the hostess' visit- 
ing card, issued perhaps a week in advance, 
with the date and hours written in ink below 
the engraved name, thus : 

Thursday y June the first, 
from three to six o'clock. 

If there is a special guest of honor, the host* 



RECEPTIONS 179 



ess writes at the top of her card the additional 

line: 

To meet Mrs. Charles Jones. 

ACKNOWLEDGING INVITATIONS 

It is not correct to send a written acceptance 
of the invitation to an ** At Home,'* or a 
** Tea/' One's presence at the appointed time 
is all that is necessary. 

If the recipient of the invitation does not 
expect to attend, however, acknowledgment 
should be made on the day 6t the entertain- 
ment by merely sending a visiting card, by 
post, or better, by special messenger. 

If the invitation is given in the names of 
more than one woman, two cards should be 
sent for regrets ; if in the name of husband and 
wife, the woman regretting sends one card only, 
the man two, the reason for this distinction 
being, of course, that a woman would not send 
a card to her hostess ' husband. 

In the case of a mother and several daugh- 
ters entertaining together, some persons leave 
a number of cards, one for each; but as a rule 
two cards will be considered sufficient, and 
many persons regard a greater number as in- 
elegant. 



180 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

THE BECEFTION 

Imagine yourself arriving as an invited 
guest at a ceremonious reception. 

You may, if you are Mrs. or Miss Jones, be 
wearing your smartest morning gown, though 
you will feel far better pleased with yourself 
to be encased in something more elaborate — 
say, a handsome reception gown (high-necked, 
of course), with a rich hat or bonnet to corre- 
spond, light gloves, etc. 

You are certain to find your hostess decked 
out in such a costume of her very best, out of 
compliment to her guests; she wears a train 
and is probably more gorgeously bejewelled 
than her visitors. She and her assistant 
hostesses do not, of course, wear hats or 
bonnets. 

At the evening reception, hostess and guests 
alike wear full-dress, decollete, and you would 
no more think of appearing in your bonnet on 
such an occasion than in your rubbers. 

At an informal tea the usual visiting cos- 
tume is all-sufficient. 

If you have the ill-luck to be Mr. Jones, in- 
stead of Mrs. or Miss, you must be clad, for 
the afternoon, in your frock coat (or, now- 
adays, your ** cutaway,'* if you prefer), light 
trousers, light tie and gloves, and patent boots. 



RECEPTIONS fSt 



The frock coat demands, the cutaway forbids, 
the top hat. 

Whatever else you may or may not do, don't 
wear your gloves in the drawing-room! If 
there is danger of your forgetting this, leave 
them at home ; you might almost as well neglect 
to remove your hat as to offer your hostess a 
gloved hand. The gloved hand (male) is some- 
times offered to a woman on the stage — in so- 
ciety never. 

In the evening you must wear full dress with 
white waistcoat, white bow tie, and gloves. 

Now, being finally arrayed and in your right 
mind, you arrive at the house at such time be- 
tween the hours named in the invitation as best 
suits your convenience. Don't go so early as 
to suggest the eager child, who can hardly wait 
for the hour of the birthday-party to arrive, 
and who has to be ultimately dragged home ; on 
the other hand, go early enough to make your 
stay of the requisite fifteen minutes or half- 
hour and still escape before the hours of invita- 
tion have expired. 

If the entertainment is an elaborate affair, 
you find a strip of carpet rolled from the door to 
the curb, and, in bad weather, an awning erected 
over it, with a man-servant at the entrance to 
open carriage doors, give numbers, etc. 

As you reach the house door it is thrown 



182 THE BAODERN HOSTESS 



open by a servant, who directs you to the 
dressing-room; there another attendant takes 
charge of yonr wraps, if you are burdened with 
any that you prefer not to wear in the house. 
Upon descending to the drawing-room, your 
husband, if any, in the rear, you may be met 
at the threshold by the pompous butler. This 
is a very dismaying experience, but keep your 
presence of mind — if you can remember your 
name and mention it to him, all is well ; he will 
repeat the name that you have confided to him 
so loudly that the hostess, without a moment's 
hesitation, greets you as if you were her dear- 
est friend, regardless of the fact that to her 
you are only *' Nellie's red-haired cousin." 

The hostess stands just inside the drawing- 
room door, gives you her hand and the smile- 
that-won 't-come-off-from-three-to-six, and after 
a brief, cordial greeting, if other guests are be- 
hind you, passes you on to her husband, daugh- 
ter, or other assistant hostess with an intro- 
duction, if needed. 

Don't delay the procession on entering. 
Tour room is better than your company in 
front of the receiving line, and if you haven't 
sense enough to get yourself off you will be 
forcibly removed in the direction of the dining- 
room or other remote spot. 

At about this time you are very likely to be 



RECEPTIONS 183 



sorry you came, but keep the fact to yourself — 
cheer up— think how pretty the flowers are, 
how badly your neighbor is dressed, or admire 
the artificial lights (the daylight is always ex- 
cluded at receptions because it costs nothing) ; 
say some of these pleasant things to any friend 
you are lucky enough to spy out, and tell her 
how you love that Hungarian orchestra over 
there in the alcove behind those palms, espe- 
ciaUy when it plays Strauss — if you feel sure 
that it isn't a German band discoursing 
Wagner. 

Much of the furniture has been removed 
from the reception rooms, so you find it easy 
to make your way gracefully and unconsciously 
toward the dining-room, which is better than to 
make the dash of a bloodhound in that direc- 
tion the moment you have dropped the hostess' 
hand, after the manner of One with a Steady 
Purpose. When you find yourself, to your 
mild surprise, in the dining-room, you accept the 
situation thrust upon you, and beam and purr 
over the charming arrangement of the tables, 
with their flowers, silver, and glass; if the en- 
tertainment is not of too stately an order young 
women are seated at the ends of the table, one 
pouring chocolate, the other tea — if it be after- 
noon — coffee, if evening. Punch, perhaps, in 
the comer! 



184 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

Finally some one offers you something — ^you 
can't help that. If you want it, take it. If 
not, having learned to say ** no,*' be firm. 
Don't sample everything, and remember that 
chocolate and coffee are better not mixed, even 
if it i^ a free lunch ; on the other hand, get out 
of the dining-room quickly if you don't want 
anything — there are others who do. At an 
elaborate reception do not be surprised to see 
a large table heaped with salads and sand- 
wiches, cream, cake, bonbons, etc. 

Servants will see that guests are served ; they 
also remove used plates, etc. But you must not 
expect to be seated; eating is not the serious 
business of the day, and there isn't room, un- 
less you are entitled to the prerogatives of roy- 
alty or extreme age and infirmity. 

If you yearn for wine, cast your eye casually 
upon the sideboard; there may be wine and 
there may not. 

Seek not for souvenirs to carry home ! Even 
being a grandmother will not excuse your tak- 
ing ** one of those pretty bonbons '* home to 
little Algernon in your pocket; buy Algernon 
something at a shop on your way home if he 
must have it. 

At a vast formal gathering the hostess will 
not expect you to make any adieux — she has 
her hands full in greeting the arrivals, and 



RECEPTIONS IZ5 



should not be obliged to speed the parting 
guest as well. At every afternoon reception it 
is good form to leave your cards in the hall 
before taking your departure; you will prob- 
ably find a convenient tray or salver for the 
purpose. The same number of cards should be 
left as you would send for regrets if you were 
not attending. 

Cards are not commonly left at an evening 
reception. 

If men have been generally included in the 
list of guests — in other words, if the invitation 
is given in the name of the hostess' husband 
as well as in her own, the host stands by his 
wife's side, receiving the guests inunediately 
after she has greeted them. This, however, is 
not so important unless the host and hostess 
are young people entertaining shortly after 
their marriage, and, in any case, the host is 
free to move about among the guests, especially 
toward the close of the reception. The hostess 
should not stir from her post during the recep- 
tion hour; nothing is more painfully embar- 
rassing to the guest who may be a stranger to 
most of the people present than to arrive and 
not find the hostess immediately, with her cor- 
dial greeting. On the other hand, if the enter- 
tainment is in honor of a special guest, she 
should be taken by the host, before its close, to 



m THE MODERN HOSTESS 

the dining-room, where he sees that refresh- 
ments are offered to her. 

An assistant hostess can do much to deserve 
the name by moving about the rooms, seeing 
that guests are not left stranded, suggesting a 
trip to the dining-room, making an occasional 
introduction, and breaking up those stupid 
blockades which are often caused by the gather- 
ing of all the guests in one spot — ^in short, she 
should keep things moving. 

THE D^BUT 

At a d6but, the debutante stands next her 
mother, in the position of honor, and is very 
particularly presented to all the guests as they 
enter. 

It is considered in good taste for her to be 
gowned simply — as elegantly as she chooses, 
but not too elaborately. There should be, on 
this occasion, some suggestion of the ^' sweet 
girl graduate ^ ' in the simplicity of her attire — 
white is most in favor — ^as distinguished from 
the more gorgeous gowns, jewels, etc., which 
she may elect to wear at subsequent entertain* 
ments. 



MUSICALES AND DRAMATICS 

When the hostess craves something in the 
way of novelty, a favorite form of entertain- 
ment is private theatricals, or a mnsicale. The 
mnsicale is better adapted to the amusement of 
older gaests, as amateur dramatics are apt to 
pall upon the blase. 

THE MTJSICALB 

One point to bear in mind in planning a 
mnsicale is that the performers should provide 
a diversity of entertainment. If there are to 
be several, do not have more than one solo 
pianist, as a rule, or more than one performer 
on any single instrument. There is so much 
variety in the human voice that it is not ob- 
jectionable to engage several vocalists, though 
it would be better to have a contralto, or a male 
, voice, with a soprano, for instance, than to 
have two or three sopranos. 

The average auditor enjoys listening to sing- 
ing more than to any instrumental music, so it 
is well to have your programme made up 
largely of songs with only a few instrumental 
numbers. 

m 



S88 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

The piano and the violin, when well played, 
appeal to almost all mnsic-lovers ; such other 
instmments as the harp rarely interest, aside 
from their novelty. Have only the very best 
performers obtainable, and cut the list short 
rather than add to it an artist who is below the 
general standard. The inevitable comparison 
is nnfair to that less gifted or experienced mu- 
sician, and also most trying to the audience. 

Just as the style of music is to be varied, so 
should one take pains, in arranging the pro- 
gramme, to select numbers which afford variety. 
An entire evening of ** Beloved, beloved," 
** Eyes, lips, and glances,'* is almost nauseat- 
ing; xmlimited grand opera is a strain to those 
lacking the severe classical taste; and more 
than one broadly ** funny '* song is not to be 
endured by those who resent the harnessing to- 
gether of jokes and music divine. 

Do not allow the vocalists to select from their 
repertoire only songs written in a foreign 
tongue; one or two in French, Italian, or Ger- 
man will suffice to enable 'the superior linguist 
to gloat visibly over the rest of the audience in 
the certainty as to whether a smile or a pensive 
look is called for; and those who are less for- 
tunate resent the awkward position in which 
they find themselves when cut loose from their 
native tongue. 



MUSECALES AND DRAMATICS 189 

One of the commonest mistakes in arranging 
for a musicale in a private house is the crowd- 
ing of the music-rooms with rows of chairs 
placed so close together as to make the guests 
most uncomfortable. It is generally necessary 
to employ those convenient little folding-chairs 
which one hires for such occasions, but if your 
rooms are small, then let your guest list be also 
very limited; better oflFer a comfortable even- 
ing's entertainment to a few guests than im- 
press your entire acquaintance with the idea 
that they have been treated like sardines. 

Do not have too long a programme, and when 
it is about half over there should be an inter- 
mission of some minutes. Indeed, the pro- 
gramme should not be rushed through at any 
point; all the songs are more effective for 
a little pause between them, and an audi- 
ence enjoys exchanging comments on each 
number. 

If there are many performers, it is well to 
avoid encores, if possible, as the natural cour- 
tesy of the invited audience inclines it to extend 
such a compliment to every performer, regard- 
less of merit, if an encore has been demanded 
from any one of their number. The evident 
wishes of the audience, however, must of course 
control, unless the performer be one of the 
great professional artists, who has unshakable 



190 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

rules on the subject and who is definitely en- 
gaged for only certain songs. 



INVITATIONS 



The cards issued for an elaborate musicale 
are in all respects similar to those for a recep- 
tion, with the addition of the single word 
** Music, or " Musicale,'^ in the lower left cor- 
ner. For a less formal afternoon musicale, 
this word may be added in writing to the in- 
vitation upon the hostess ' visiting card, as sug- 
gested in the article on '* Receptions, '^ al- 
though, for even an afternoon entertainment 
of elegant and elaborate appointments, the en- 
graved cards are more suitable. 

As with the case of ordinary receptions, in- 
vitations to a musicale in the words ** At 
Home, ' ' according to the visiting-card form, are 
acknowledged merely by attendance, or by the 
sending of visiting cards as regrets. 

On the other hand, any invitation requesting 
the pleasure of one^s company (with the single 
exception of the invitation to a church wed- 
ding) requires a formal, written acceptance, or 
regret, in the third person. 

The arrangement of the dining-room, the 
serving of refreshments, etc., are the same as 
at the reception without special music, except- 



MUSICALES AND DRABOATECS m 

ing that less elaborate refreshments are suit- 
able in the case of the mnsicale. 

Hostess and guests are costumed as for the 
ordinary reception. 

Servants remove the extra chairs from the 
music-room at the conclusion of the pro- 
gramme, allowing the guests to move about 
freely. 

As punctual attendance is expected at a 
musicale, the hostess will not find it necessary 
to stand by her place at the drawing-room door 
throughout the entire time named in her invita- 
tion, as in the case at a simple reception, when 
the guests come at any time between the hours 
stated. 

Simple little progranunes, attractively 
printed, should be provided for the guests. 

At the very informal afternoon '* tea with 
music, '* there need not be any set programme. 
The numbers may be rendered at intervals dur- 
ing the reception hours. 

PRIVATE THEATBIOAIiS 

History has yet to chronicle the time when 
amateur dramatics have been successfully car- 
ried through without real tribulation, at one 
stage or another, on the part of the ^ ^ man- 
ager." 

Unless the hostess has had real experience 



m THE MODERN HOSTESS 

in just such undertakings, she will be wise if, 
after deciding on this, to many, very interest- 
ing form of entertainment, she secures the aid 
of some friend, man or woman, whose experi- 
ence and enthusiasm fit him or her for the role 
of * * manager ^ ^ ; to this friend she should dele- 
gate all authority, and the word of this man- 
ager must be law throughout the rehearsals. 

It is a well-known fact that professional 
actors, however often their ** artistic tempera- 
ment ^^ may lead them to disregard the con- 
ventional obligations of business and social life, 
are, nevertheless, most punctilious about re- 
hearsals. It is a professional crime to be late 
for a rehearsal, and to be altogether absent 
from one amounts almost to a capital offence. 

Furthermore, although in the heat of sudden 
anger or impatience, they may wrangle and dis- 
pute with their manager, in cooler moments 
they will always recognize the fact that the 
word of the person directing rehearsals should 
be final on all points. 

These are excellent things for the amateur 
to keep before him. 

In other words, the discipline at rehearsals 
should be almost military; the best managers 
are despotic, and it is from the natural hesita- 
tion on the part of the society manager to 
play this role of despot, as well as from the un- 



MUSICAUBS AND DRABOATIGS 193 

willingness of the amateur actor to be tyran- 
nized over, that the endless conflicts result, end- 
ing finally in that state of mutiny which has 
come to be considered characteristic of amateur 
theatricals. 

However, some men and many women in so- 
ciety display a great fitness for this very task 
of * ' producing * ^ a play ; they combine en- 
thusiasm, dramatic instinct, and tact in dealing 
with people ; to such a one the task should be 
entrusted. 

In the more ambitious of amateur efforts, the 
services of a professional " coach ^* are often 
engaged. This should ensure a certain degree 
of professional atmosphere and of ** finish '' 
for the performance, besides relieving the host- 
ess of much responsibility regarding details. 
Also, it is a very real advantage when the per- 
formers will more readily submit to sugges- 
tions and directions from such a professional 
manager than from one chosen from their own 
circle. 

The hostess, of course, at a private enter- 
tainment, invites or requests those friends who 
have been selected to take part, though she 
should consult with her manager first in mak- 
ing up the cast. She commonly considers it 
the part of wisdom and tact to choose her ama- 
teur performers from a small clique whose 



S94 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

members are on very intimate terms with one 
another. This is a mistake. As a matter of 
fact and experience, the players are frequently 
more seriously hampered by embarrassment 
and self-consciousness in performing scenes 
with their most intimate friends than with per- 
sons whom they know only slightly. In the 
presence of the latter they find it easier to for- 
get their own personality, which should be lost 
in that of the character portrayed. 

For the leading roles, one or two persons 
must be secured who have shown real talent for 
this sort of entertainment. In the selection of 
minor characters, remember, if quite inexperi- 
enced young people must be taken, that per- 
sonal beauty and grace in the yoimg women, 
ease of manner and self-possession in the men, 
go a great way toward making the performance 
a pleasure rather than a pain to the audience. 

Sometimes, it must be admitted, in amateur 
dramatics, as, alas ! in the theatrical profession 
itself, interest centres in the personality of a 
performer, and the audience enjoys watching 
the work, whether meritorious or not, of the 
social lion, whose part may have been assigned 
solely because of the abnormal interest that the 
* * world ^ ' takes in all of the doings of this 
particular personage. 

If the performance is experimental — ^unless 



B9USICALES AND DRAMATICS 195 

m I * - - - 

the amateur artists are tried * * old stagers * ' of 
proved ability — a very light comedy or farce is 
the only style of play that should be attempted. 
The classic drama, as rendered by one ^s nearest 
and dearest, with a doorway or arch separating 
players and audience, or emotional scenes by 
self-conscious acquaintances, painfully and 
visibly embarrassed by their costumes, are al- 
most more than those of us can bear who are 
blessed with a sense of humor. 



THEATRE PARTIES 

The first essential of attendance upon the 
theatre or opera is to endeavor to be in one's 
place a few minutes before the performance 
begins. If for good reason one is late, it is 
only considerate to remain in the lobby until 
the first scene or number is completed before 
taking one's place. Wraps should be removed 
before reaching the seats, and this may be done 
either in the lobby or on the way to the seats. 
In ordinary attendance at the theatre or opera 
the seats have been procured in advance. A 
lady should not be detained in the public lobby 
while the gentleman takes his place in the line 
and secures such seats as he may be able to 
procure. The ladies precede the gentleman to 
the ticket-taker's position, where he first pre- 
sents the tickets, receives the coupons, procures 
a programme for each person, and again allows 
the ladies to precede him as he gives the cou- 
pons to the usher. On reaching the seats the 
wraps, if not checked in the lobby, are placed 
over the back of the seat, and the ladies at once 
remove their hats. These are either placed 
under the seats or are laid in the lap. Should 

196 



THEATRE PARTIES W 

a lady neglect to remove her hat, it is quite 
proper for those behind to politely ask that she 
do so. No lady will refuse to comply or will 
be offended by the request. It is also proper 
for the person making the request to thank her 
upon the first sign of compliance. 

If a box is taken, the wraps are removed out- 
side of the box. On entering, the chaperons or 
elderly ladies precede. It is their privilege 
to occupy the seats nearest to the rail, but they 
usually waive this in favor of the younger 
ladies. The gentlemen take seats in the rear 
of the party. No gentleman will leave a lady 
alone in a box. He will ask her to walk about. 
Should she not desire to do so, it is his place 
to remain with her. While it is regarded as a 
manly prerogative to leave the seat between 
acts, no gentleman will do so more than once 
during a performance. Should he do so more 
than once he ought to witness the remainder 
of the performance from the rear of the hall 
rather than climb over the other occupants so 
often. It is well to place the coupons, by which 
the seats are held, in the waistcoat pocket, 
rather than in the wraps, as it is sometimes 
necessary to have them convenient in case of 
dispute or mistake. 

The most important point to be remembered 
in attendance on theatre or opera is not to dis« 



f 96 THE RiODERN HOSTESS 

turb those in the vicinity who wish to hear the 
performance by talking or any avoidable noise. 
Even the rattling of the programme is annoy- 
ing. It is to be remembered that the intervals 
and intermission will afford abundant oppor- 
tunity for such conversation as one desires to 
indulge in while in attendance upon a theatrical 
or operatic performance. The recounting of 
what is coming next in the play, so often in- 
dulged in through a vain desire to ^^ air one's 
erudition," or the humming of the tune and 
keeping time with hands or feet, are extremely 
annoying. Should any be guilty of such gross 
rudeness, it is quite right and proper to ask 
them to desist. If they have done it thought- 
lessly, they will apologize and refrain from re- 
peating the offence; but if it was done from 
ignorance and rudeness, no fear need be enter- 
tained of injuring their feelings. 

In applauding, hand-clapping is sufficient 
demonstration of approval. Stamping, whis- 
tling, and cat-calling are the chartered rights 
of the * * gods ' ' only. 

Calling during the intermission is often in- 
dulged in by those occupying boxes, as well as 
those in the body of the house. There is an 
objection to its indulgence by the latter, except 
among those who occupy aisle seats. When 
calling in a box, if the box door is locked, it is 



THEATRE PARTIES 199 

proper to knock upon the door for permission 
to enter. If there is only a portiere, entrance 
should be quietly effected, and the call made. If 
a person is known only to a gentleman in the 
box, the call would better not be made. If one 
knows only a lady in the party, she should in- 
troduce the caller to the chaperon of her party. 
She is not expected to introduce her caller to 
any of the others unless she pleases, and such 
introductions do not obligate either party to 
further acquaintance. The call should termi- 
nate before the performance begins again. 

If a gentleman escorts a lady to the theatre, 
the proper dress is full evening dress. This 
means the long-tailed coat and the silk top hat, 
or black opera hat, which is more convenient. 
The short-skirted dinner coat, or ** Tuxedo,'^ 
may be worn with gentlemen or with a lady 
who is nearly related to him, but not otherwise. 
If a gentleman is in company with his wife or 
near relative and other ladies, or if he is one 
of a party in a box, the long-tailed coat must 
be worn. Gentlemen's gloves are white and 
are worn throughout the performance. This is 
not imperative, and is by no means general. 
Dark gloves are worn and are laid aside with 
the wraps. 

Ladies who occupy seats in the orchestra of 
a theatre should wear high-necked and long- 



200 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

sleeved dresses. Those who occupy boxes wear 
low-necked and short-sleeved dresses — ^in fact, 
are privileged to wear ball-dresses. 

Strictly si>eaking, good society does not permit 
a young unmarried lady to attend the theatre 
or opera without a chaperon. Where men and 
women have an acquaintance of long standing 
strict interpretation of this law is not insisted 
upon. But a theatre party must be properly 
chaperoned; and this is insisted upon in the 
case of a party of young people, when the 
theatre is followed by a supper. The chaperon 
must meet her charges punctually, and her 
duties are not over until she sees them properly 
returned to their homes. It is not necessary 
that she escort them home in person, but she 
must know that they are properly attended 
thither. 

A theatre party may either follow a dinner 
or be followed by a supper. It should be com- 
posed of an equal number of ladies and gentle- 
men. To secure this it is only fitting that the 
invitations be issued a week or ten days in ad- 
vance, to enable each guest invited to make ar- 
rangements to be there. It is not usual to issue 
engraved invitations, nor should the invitations 
be verbal. The points to observe in the written 
invitation are the time, place, kind of perform- 
ance, and the statement as to whether the seats 



THEATRE PARTIES 20S 

are orchestra or box. This latter is necessary 
to enable the ladies to dress properly. The 
hour will tell the guests whether there is a din- 
ner before or a supper afterward. This form 
may be used: 

628 Forest Street, 
January 3rd, 19 — . 
Deab Miss Gibson : 

We are planning a box-party at the Grand 
for Thursday evening of next week to see 
Maude Adams in '' L'Aiglon.^' My sister, Mrs. 
Jamieson, will chaperon us, and, if you will 
kindly consent to join us, we will number eight. 
If this is quite agreeable to you we will call 
for you at half -past seven. 

Most sincerely yours, 

Chables F. Simokds. 

The seats are obtained beforehand, and are 
gotten well forward and close together. If it 
is the intention to provide dinner before the 
theatre, the dinner should be called promptly 
at 6.30 o'clock, so as to allow ample margin to 
reach the theatre in time. If the dinner is held 
at an hotel or cafe, and if the party is a box- 
party, the dinner must be laid in a private 
dining-room, as the ladies will be in full even- 
ing dress. If it is a theatre party, orchestra 



202 THE M( 



seats are quite proper. A box is supplied, if 
possible, for the opera. 

On all occasions where a dinner is given at 
a cafe or public dining-room, the table must be 
secured some time before to avoid disappoint- 
ment. Arrangements should be made for the 
sort of dinner required, even to the prepara- 
tion of the menu. This is a great aid in the 
good service of the dinner. The hostess, or the 
bachelor, as the case may be, is on hand early 
to receive the guests in the lobby, to check the 
wraps for the ladies. When all of the guests 
have arrived, the way is led to the dining-room, 
the host leading with the chaperon, or the host- 
ess leading, as the case may be. The ladies 
and gentlemen of the party do not enter arm- 
in-arm. The places are indicated by a card at 
each cover. It is not obligatory to wait more 
than five minutes for a tardy guest. The din- 
ner is then carried out, in all respects, similarly 
to one given at a private house. In seating the 
party the host should reserve for himself and 
the chaperon the seats nearest the aisle if the 
seats are in the orchestra. In elaborate and 
expensive affairs the host sends his guests 
home in a carriage. 

Sometimes the host sends the tickets to the 
houses of the invited guests, and either awaits 
them in the lobby of the theatre, when all go 



THEATRE PARTIES 



203 



in together, or takes his place in the theatre 
and salutes his gaests on arrival, by rising to 
greet them. 

There is greater need of long notice to the 
gnestSy and of more prompt acknowledgment 
by the guest, in the case of theatre parties than 
in ordinary parties or receptions. Invitations 
must be very explicit as to day, hour, and place 
of meeting. There is such need of advance 
preparation and notice on occasions of this kind, 
that there must be no delays or misunderstand* 
ing. 



GAEDEN PAETIES 

A GABDEN party is nothing less than a recep- 
tion held out-of-doors. The only modifications 
are those which the place entails. There is 
much in favor of making the most of the gar- 
dens, flowers, trees, and lawns on days when 
the weather permits. Every one enjoys the 
cool shade and the abundant room on these 
occasions. If hostesses, in their summer resi- 
dences, realized the greater comfort to their 
guests, they would utilize these accessories 
more than they do. 

The fickleness of the weather is the only con- 
tingency for which the hostess must be pre- 
pared, to meet which only reasonable foresight 
is necessary. 

When preparations are made for a garden 
party, or fete champetre, there must also be 
ample provision for transferring the reception 
easily and quickly from the garden to the house 
in case of bad weather. 

If the occasion is formal, engraved invita- 
tions must be used. They are in block letters 
or black script on white paper or cards, and 
may be worded thus : 

204 



GARDEN PARTIES 205 

Mrs. Charles Edmund 
requests the pleasure of 



company on Thursday afternoon, 

July third, 

from four untU seven o'clock. 

Garden Party. The Bower. 

Or the invitation may take the form of an 
** At Home '' card with the words ** Garden 
Party '^ in the lower left-hand comer. It is 
desirable to furnish your guests with necessary 
information about the arrival and departure 
of trains. 

On informal occasions an ordinary letter of 
invitation may be sent either by mail or mes- 
senger. These notes are of such friendly tone 
as the acquaintance with the person invited will 
warrant. The invitations are answered in the 
usual way. One may prepare for the occasion 
according to the style of invitation sent out, 
knowing that if printed cards are used the en- 
tertainment will be formal. 

It is a common custom for the hostess to send 
her visiting card with the words ** Garden 
Party '* on the lower left-hand comer and the 



206 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



time and place on the lower right. In reply 
to one of these an invited guest will answer with 
a polite note. 

The preparations involve putting both the 
garden and house in order. The lawn is 
mowed ; gravel walks are rolled, and chairs are 
placed about in shady places and on the ve- 
randas. The house is decorated with flowers 
and the doors and windows left open and in- 
viting. 

The hostess may undulge her taste in music, 
and provide it in any form convenient or pleas- 
ing to her, or may omit it altogether. 

If the place is large enough to afford room 
for games of croquet, tennis, or golf, all of 
these opportunities should be offered to the 
guests. The chief amusements are of a social 
nature, the guests moving freely about, and 
partaking of refreshment. It is, therefore, not 
necessary to provide a chair for each guest; 
but comfortable lounging places, wicker or 
rustic chairs, benches, and settees are always 
acceptable. It is also well to spread rugs here 
and there where the ground may be damp. 
Especial attention must be paid to the comfort 
of the delicate or old. 

The refreshments will include such berries 
and fruits as may be in season, with ices, cold 
drinks, cakesi sandwiches, salad, claret, or other 



GARDEN PARTIES 207 

cnp, and lemonade. These are served under an 
awning, tent, or bower decorated with flowers> 
and dispensed by servants at the call of the 
guests. Or this may all be inexpensively and 
effectively served from the shade of the 
veranda. 

Punctually on the hour the hostess should 
order the musical programme begun. She 
should be ready on the lawn to greet each ar- 
rival. She may enjoy the shade of either a hat 
or her parasol. As the guests arrive they are 
greeted by shaking hands, and are introduced 
to strangers. If the attendance is very large, 
she will have little time for anything but greet- 
ings and adieus. Then she must rely upon the 
help of her friends. If the party is a small 
one, she will be able to mingle with her guests 
and not run the risk of failing to see a new 
arrival. 

The guests, on their arrival, enter the house, 
where rooms on the ground floor are set aside 
for their convenience. Wraps, veils, and coats 
are there laid aside before going out to greet 
the hostess on the lawn. After this guests 
largely entertain themselves. The gentlemen 
bring refreshment to the ladies. It is quite 
proper to remain during the entire afternoon, 
but no call should be shorter than half an hour, 
during which time the guest should be as prom- 



206 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

inent as good taste allows. This out of defer- 
ence to the hostess. If one is obliged to make 
only a short stay, it is well not to take formal 
leave of the hostess, but to slip away as quietly 
as possible. When the party is very large it 
is customary for the guests to leave cards, 
either upon entering or leaving the house. 

There is abs6lutely nothing to be prescribed 
in the way of dress for either ladies or gentle- 
men at a garden party. Ladies may indulge 
their tastes in the lightest dresses for after- 
noon wear in any and every direction. Gentle- 
men may wear frock coat with silk hat, or a 
yachting or flannel or serge suit with straw 
hat. Gentlemen do not wear gloves on such 
occasions. While in England, and in the ultra- 
fashionable sets in America, gentlemen dress 
de rigueur, the greater inclination is towards 
an inf oimal dress. 



VISITING AND HOUSE PAETIES 

THE INVITATION 

In asking guests to enjoy the hospitality of 
one's roof, the hostess should state expressly 
for how long a period the wished-f or friend is 
expected to stay. The best way to accomplish 
this is to mention the exact dates for the guest's 
arrival and departure. 

Vague and indefinite terms, such as Can you 
not stay with us over Christmas? or, WonH 
you join us for the Fairfield Hunt next Thurs- 
day? are likely, unless hostess and guest are 
intimate friends, rather to puzzle and confuse 
the receiver of the invitation than to convey a 
compliment to him. An exception to this ex- 
actitude may, however, be allowed in the case 
of invitations from the owners of very large 
establishments. Here the guest is, of course,' 
aware that it is no inconvenience to his hostess 
if, within reasonable limits, he tacitly fixes the 
dates of his coming and going to suit himself. 
Nor is it amiss in the case of old acquaintances 
to suggest two or three dates for a visit, or 
even for the guest to fix the time for his coming 

209 



210 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

himself. Ordinarily, though, it is best for the 
hostess to state not only the day and hour when 
she is most prepared to welcome the coming 
guest, but also for her to specify the train or 
boat on which the visitor should come. 

Nothing shows much better the difference be- 
tween a tactful hostess and the reverse than the 
wording of her invitation. The woman is 
poorly equipped who pens the same letter to 
each friend, and does not rather drop some spe- 
cial lines implying a knowledge of the tastes 
and wishes of each visitant. A hint in an in- 
vitation as to the gayeties to be expected, with 
a word or two about other congenial friends 
looked for, is always appropriate. The follow- 
ing imaginary letters may serve as models : 



Mayfield, 
July 3, 19 — . 
My Deab Mb. Mattland : 

We are having Efjle Nelson and a friend of 
hers and George and Houston Rutland here for 
a week. I should he glad if you could stop 
over with us from Saturday until Monday. 
Effie's friend, Miss Morris, is quite a crack 
tennis player, so I know you two will he con- 
genial. 

Reynolds will meet you with the trap at the 



! 



VISmNG AND HOUSE PARTIES 211 

three-o'clock train; I think you wUl find you 
leave the Grand Central at 2.40. 
Trusting we may see you, I am, as always, 
Very cordially yours, 

Kathbyn M. Baibd. 

Or, 

WUliamsport, 
July 11, 19 — . 
My Deab Miss Ibving : 

We are expecting a few congenial souls here 
next week, and I hope you can arrange to come 
on the fifteenth and stay till the twenty-second. 
Florence Broivn and her brother, the Websters, 
and one or two others have promised, so only 
your presence is needed to complete our party 
and our pleasure. If you can come, I would 
suggest the three-o'clock train from Broad 
Street Station. That will bring you straight 
through to Elmsford, where I will meet you. 

We have our boat in commission, and several 
dances on hand, so that yachting clothes and 
evening gowns will come in handily. 

Trusting that we may not be disappointed in 
eoopecting you, I am, my dear Miss Irving, 

Very sincerely yours, 

Mabgabet p. Classon. 

Or, 



212 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

Normandie, 
May 20, 19 — . 
Deab Mrs. Bivingtok : 

We should be ever so glad if you and Mr. 
Rivington could spend a few days with us he- 
fore leaving for the other side. We have the 
dearest little place here, which Vm sure you'll 
like as much as I do. Everything is in green 
now and the rides ' hereabouts are beautiful. 
The Anaronda Golf Club is barely a mile away, 
and my husband will give Mr. Rivington a 
chance to try conclusions on our country links. 

Do think this over, and, if you can, give u^ 
from Friday evening till Monday of next week. 

Ever cordially yours, 

NOBMA CUBTIN NOEBISON. 
AN8WEBING INVITATIONS TO HOUSE PABTIES 

Should a hostess not attend to the little mat- 
ters of naming exact times spoken of above, the 
person invited is at liberty to specify these for 
himself in the event of his accepting the invita- 
tion, leaving it open to his hostess, however, to 
modify his dates, should they not altogether 
suit her. When the person invited is not an 
intimate friend of the hostess, or when the in- 
vitation is to a house party of a more or less 
formal sort, an answer should be given 
promptly. The following are proper forms of 



VISITING AND HOUSE PARTIES 213 



acceptance to the invitations in the last two 
letters given above: 



Walnut St., 

Philadelphia. 

My Deab Mbs. Classon : 

/ am delighted to say that nothing stands in 

the road of my accepting your invitation' to 

Williamsport. I haven't seen Florence for 

over a year, and shall be ever so glad to have 

a chat with her once again. 

I shall follow your thoughtful advice about 

the trains. With hind regards, I am, 

Very sincerely yours, 

Ethel Bandall Ibyikg. 
July 13, 1^ — . 



Or, 



Madison Averme, 
New York. 
My Deab Mbs. Nobbison: 

Mr. Rivington and I wUl be charmed to ac- 
cept your hind invitation for next Friday. I 
have heard a good deal of '' Normandie,'' and 
am dying to looh it over. Mr. Rivington was 
making a careful examination of his golf things 
only an hour ago, and is, I hnow, delighted to 



2S4 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

get a chance to try conclusions with a crack 
player like your husband. 

With kind regards, I am always, 

Sincerely yours, 

Ella M. BiviNaTON. 
May 22, 19 — . 

FOBMAL ^OTJSE PABTIEB 

Strictly speaking, a house party consists of 
from four to twenty guests gathered in a coun- 
try seat, for any length of time from three days 
to a fortnight. The limits of the visit should 
be defined exactly in the invitations. When 
the party is assembled, the time is devoted to 
the enjoyment of a round of the best-planned 
and most varied entertainments that the hostess 
can provide. According to the English fashion, 
when a house party is given, the i^aistress of a 
commodious country place invites by letter 
those friends whom from time to time during 
the holidays she wishes to gather under her 
roof. Models for such notes have been given 
above. In country houses, where a party of a 
dozen or more guests leaves only to make room 
for another party, convenience dictates that the 
hostess should keep an exact record of every 
invitation sent out, its answer, and the dates 
for which each guest is invited. Failure to 
keep memoranda of this sort is very apt to 



VlSmNG AND HOUSE PARTIES 215 

lead to embarrassing and unpleasant confusion. 
These English methods of gathering house par- 
ties have commended themselves to the best 
entertainers on this side by their pleasant out- 
come and orderly arrangement. 

ENTERTAINING VISITOBS 

The regulations given in the preceding sec- 
tion apply, it should be carefully remembered, 
only to those hostesses who own large and lux- 
urious country seats, and who aim to give 
brilliant house parties. To the owner of the 
smaller country cottage, who may ask a few 
friends to stop over from Saturday to Monday, 
the following recommendations are addressed: 

First and foremost, plan carefully the enter- 
tainment of your visitors. A hostess knowing 
the resources at her command and the tastes of 
her expected guests should turn her mind 
towards providing suitable amusements. 
Horses, golfing, tennis, sailing, boating, danc- 
ing are obvious diversions to suggest, but some- 
times a spell of bad weather or other cause may 
prevent the guests from indulging in these 
amusements. At this juncture it is that the 
tact and hospitality of the hostess should most 
come into play. 

Generally speaking, it is well to get up no 
special entertainments for the morning. If the 



216 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

party be at all. large, breakfast will probably 
continue till nigh unto noon. Many women 
prefer to keep their rooms till luncheon, writing 
letters and so on ; others, again, like to sit in a 
quiet spot on the veranda, reading a novel, 
chatting, or doing some fancy-work. Some- 
times, however, it happens that the morning is 
chosen for some expedition, and on such a day 
it is the afternoon on which the hostess may 
leave the guests pretty much to themselves. 

A dinner, followed by a dance, a card party, 
private theatricals, a fancy-dress ball, a casino 
dance, a picnic, or a moonlight drive are some 
of the expedients for filling the evenings, which, 
even in a modest house party, must not be left 
entirely empty for regrets and yawning and 
boredom to creep in. 

Still further can the hostess confer benefits 
on her guests, by refraining from forcing any 
of them into any plans or expedition to which 
they do not show signs of taking a fancy. When 
her opinions are opposed to those of a visitor, 
she should tactfully refrain from raising a dis- 
cussion on the matters on which they disagree; 
so, too, she should cleverly turn the . conversa- 
tion when any of her guests fall into too heated 
discussions. Many good-natured hostesses 
have a dread of leaving their visitors at any 
time to themselves, lest they should become 



VIsmNG AND HOUSE PARTIES 217 

bored. But really, a guest should be allowed 
somewhat the same liberty with his time as he 
would take in his own house. To invite a 
dozen persons to one's home and leave them en- 
tirely to their own devices is indeed brutal ; but 
the contrary error of over-entertaining should 
be likewise avoided. Many a matron dislikes 
to have her napping hour broken into to see 
a tennis tournament, and to wrest a contented 
man from his book and cigar for fear lest time 
be dull to him, or to break in on an agreeable 
tete-a-tete, is not less reprehensible. 

THE GUEST-CHAMBEB 

The careful hostess will devote no less time 
to her guests' physical welfare than to their 
diversions. Hospitality is not at its best when 
it asks a guest to endure discomforts which he 
would not think of encountering in his own 
home. Thus, to request two fastidious persons 
to share the same bed, or to crowd in a guest 
with a child to make room for others, is not the 
proper thing for a thoughtful hostess to do or 
allow. 

Most modem country houses have a very 
large number of guest-rooms, for it is really 
as bad form to ask two women who barely know 
each other to occupy the same chamber as it 
would be to give them but one plate at table. 



218 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

A well-appointed country seat has small rooms 
for the single guests ; and where a mother and 
daughter, or a husband and wife, are asked to 
share one chamber, two single beds are invari- 
ably provided. Ample closet room should be 
placed at the disposal of each guest; a bath is 
frequently attached to each sleeping-room, but 
it is not incorrect to ask the occupants of two 
rooms to share one bathroom. 

In a house possessing but two guest cham- 
bers, one should be made a single, the other a 
double sleeping-room; and in the latter there 
should be two beds. Booms near the bath, and 
distant from the nursery and working portions 
of the house, should always be preferred as 
guest-chambers. No one is grateful for a rude 
awakening by the cries of early aroused chil- 
dren, the noise of servants, or the clatter of 
coal. 

A guest-chamber should be always a model 
of neatness, cheerfulness, and comfort. A 
fresh, brightly-flowered paper, Japanese mat- 
ting and a few rugs, white muslin curtains, 
chintz-upholstered furniture, and an inviting 
bed are the most important fittings in such an 
apartment. Since no two guests have the same 
tastes, these should be carefully discriminated. 
One visitor will like the sun streaming in at 
every window; another will want the morning 



VISITING AND HOUSE PARTIES 2*9 



light always excluded. If the hostess finds the 
outside or inside shutters of her guest-room do 
not work easily, she will hang dark green or 
blue Holland shades* at every window, which 
can be rolled up in daytime and then drawn at 
night. In the closet always place an extra 
blanket ; a table, with lamp and matches, should 
be by the bedside, unless an electric switch is 
in reach; the bells should be in good order; 
pens, ink, stationery, and a calendar should be 
about, and a schedule in sight of the postal de- 
liveries and collections. A neat little ** house- 
wife ' '* holding needles, thread, scissors, and the 
like may be placed in the dressing-table 
drawer ; the table itself should be placed where 
the light will fall on it; and, if the guest be a 
man, care should be taken to supply a shaving 
stand in a properly illuminated portion of the 
room. That new soap should be on the stand, 
the drawers immaculately clean, and fresh 
towels on the rack hardly requires mention. In 
England these matters are all looked after by a 
housekeeper; but here, where this custom has 
not been perfected, it is better for the hostess 
herself to attend to these matters and not trust 
to the thonghtf ulness of a maid. 



220 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

WELCOMING VISITOBS 

If the guest is an unmarried woman, the host 
or hostess should be at the dock or railroad 
station to meet and greet her, especially if it be 
her first visit. Bachelors and married couples 
are supposed to be better able to take care of 
themselves, and for them it is sufficient to send a 
quick-witted man-servant to attend their wants. 

The hostess, in either case, should always pro- 
vide proper transportation from the station to 
the house, not only for the visitor, but for his 
baggage. She should meet the guest imme- 
diately on arrival, preferably at the door. In 
a house where hospitality has become a fine 
art, the hostess will accompany her friend to the 
guest-chamber, while a maid may bring a tempt- 
ing biscuit and a glass of wine ; a bath may then 
be drawn for the guest, to rid herself of the 
dust of the journey. The maid should mean- 
while open the bags and boxes, lay the contents 
on the dressing-table, and in drawers and 
closets, and carry off the travel-stained apparel 
to be cleaned. 

Should the new arrival be a bachelor, the 
hostess should be no less prompt in greeting 
him, and, if no man in the family is at home 
to conduct him to his room, a maid- or man-ser- 
vant can attend to this office. 



VISITING AND HOUSE PARTIES 221 

THE hostess' SEBVAKTS 

In very fashionable society a hostess may ex- 
pect that her guests should arrive with maids 
and valets, and for such attendants she is 
obliged to provide, but this is hardly the gen- 
eral custom in America, where only the very 
rich bring their attendants with them. 

If the maid be not suflSciently well drilled to 
look after the unpacking of the trunks, she. may 
still be instructed to unlock, unstrap, and open 
the boxes, and take out the heavy trays. Should 
the guest-room be small, all trunks and bags 
should be removed as soon as emptied. 

Each morning the maid will knock at the 
guest's door, enquire when and at what heat the 
bath should be drawn, and set the fire going 
if it be chill; to the masculine visitor she will 
bring his cleaned and polished boots and hot 
shaving water, if his room have not a stationary 
washstand. When, in the afternoon, the guests 
retire to dress for dinner, a maid should tap at 
the women's doors, and ask if any assistance be 
needed; she should then aid in adjusting the 
gowns, bring hot water when required, and, 
when the rooms are vacated, turn down the beds 
for the night, replenish the stand with towels 
and water, and carry out the apparel or shoes 
showing signs of dust, to be cleaned and brought 



222 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

back the next morning. A jug of ice-water 
and a glass should be later placed beside the 
bed; the matchbox, reading-lamp, and other de* 
tails should also be examined to see if they are 
in proper order. All these things are essen- 
tials, and should obtain from the smallest Sat- 
urday to Monday gathering to the luxurious 
large party. 

Should illness overtake a guest, the hostess 
should double her attentions, and give up as 
much as possible of her time to cheering and 
nursing the unfortunate. She may offer to 
write any letters, send telegrams, call in a 
physician, and provide medicine, special diet, 
or the like that may be required. Debts con- 
tracted by the guest under these circumstances 
should not be paid by the hostess; should a 
guest be so small-minded as to leave matters of 
this sort unsatisfied, it is usually best, how- 
ever, to quietly settle them and then drop the 
ungracious guest from one's invitation list. 

TAKING LEAVE 

Regret at parting may be expressed to a 
guest in some such form as, '' It has been 
charming to have had you with us, Miss 
Black ''; or, ** Your visit has given us the 
greatest pleasure, Mrs. Brown; we shall miss 
you much, and hope you may be persuaded to 



VISmNG AND HOUSE PARTIES 223 

come again * ' ; or, * * Good-bye, Mr. Jones. I 
have enjoyed seeing you ever so much." 

It should be the endeavor of a hostess to save 
a visitor, especially a woman, from the discom- 
fort of leaving at a too early hour. If an early 
train or boat must be taken, the hostess should 
be up betimes, and see that a pleasant break- 
fast is served; she should then take leave of 
her friend at the door, in case she does not bear 
her company to the station. A visitor is al- 
ways conducted to the train or boat at the host- 
ess' expense. When the guest is elderly, 
whether man or woman, the host and hostess 
should both, if possible, take part in the leave- 
takings. The tickets may be procured before- 
hand for a young unmarried woman, her lug- 
gage checked, and she herself handed safely 
aboard the train. A bachelor who decides to 
leave in the morning may be bid farewell the 
preceding evening, a comfortable breakfast 
having been ordered for him by his hostess^ 
her son or husband may then give him a final 
farewell in the morning. If the servants be 
well-trained, the services of one should be of- 
fered a guest in packing the baggage or in lock* 
ing up the boxes when packed* 



224 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

DBESS WHILE VISITING 

For a few days* stay the problem of dress 
hardly arises, as a rule, but for longer periods 
it requires careful consideration by the intended 
guest. 

For a week's stay in summer, at a gay coun- 
try seat, a young woman needs at least three 
hats: — a walking hat, one for golfing or boating, 
and a third of more delicate build, for lawn 
parties, teas, etc. A golf dress, white pique 
skirts, pretty shirtwaists, and Oxford ties will 
equip her for the morning. For the afternoon 
she may have a pretty, light-toned voile or 
foulard and a high-necked muslin or two. A 
decollete gown of white organdie or pale, tinted 
silk will answer well for the evening. A little 
wardrobe of this sort may be packed in a 
steamer trunk. It is only when on a visit to 
very splendid houses, where a large round of 
gay entertainments is expected, that a bigger 
trunk need be taken. An older woman will 
make several changes in this list, but she will 
need no more clothes. 

To the ordinary house party, a man under 
sixty carries a sack suit for the morning, col- 
ored shirts, a complete set of evening clothes, 
duck trousers, a straw hat and a cap for out- 
ings, and several Oxfords. 



VISITING AND HOUSE PARTIES 225 

^ - - 

THB guest's duties 

To make a pleasant visitor, each guest shotQd 
essay to conform himself to the customs of the 
household. When a choice of entertainments 
is offered, he should be willing to fall in with 
that one which he sees his hostess prefers. The 
dullest outing or the most unsuccessful dance 
should be entered into with zest. 

It is clearly a guest ^s duty to be courteous to 
the other visitors, to forbear from excited argu- 
ment, and to refrain from any liberties. The 
host's carriage should not be used without his 
Invitation, his books should not be scattered 
about the house, nor the chairs shifted from 
one room to another. One's room should be 
kept in order and neat-appearing. To the 
habits of the household concerning the times 
for meals the visitor should cheerfully defer. 
If early breakfasts are customary, it is bad taste 
to keep one's hostess waiting for the comple- 
tion of a slow toilet. 

TIPS 

Nowadays it is a fixed custom to tip the ser- 
vants on departing from a private house, unless 
the mistress distinctly requests that this be not 
done. Usually, the guest is left to do as he 
chooses about the matter. To tip over-lavishly 



216 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

is not commendable, and yet many err in this 
direction from lack of clear knowledge at where 
to draw the line. 

A single woman should tip the maid who 
keeps her room in order one dollar, if the visit 
has been for a week and no special favors have 
been asked. If, however, the maid has brushed 
the gowns, prepared the bath, and assisted in 
the evening toilet, then a dollar and a half is 
expected. Aside from the maids a woman has 
but few demands on her purse, except possibly 
from the coachman, and for him fifty cents or 
a dollar is suflScient. 

A bachelor should give at least a dollar to 
the maid who keeps his room in order, not less 
than fifty cents to the boy who polishes his 
boots, and a dollar to the coachman if the latter 
has performed any special services. If a valet 
has brushed, pressed, and laid out clothes, 
drawn baths, and so on for the visitor, at least 
a dollar and a half must be given; and if the 
guest has used a riding horse, and been fre- 
quently driven about the country, the coachman 
will expect a dollar and a half and the stable- 
boy a half-dollar. 

Married couples usually divide the tipping. 
The wife fees the maids, the husband the men- 
servants. A dollar and a half should be given 
the maid, and two dollars if she has done spe- 



VISrnNG AND HOUSE PARTIES 227 

cial work. The butler would get two dollars, if 
he acted as valet, and sometunes as high as five 
when he has attended to special matters. As a 
rule, a married man is supposed to send the 
cook a dollar, and many bachelors do the same. 
The coachman always expects the fee of a 
dollar. Fifty cents to the laundress is also 
customary if her time has been used for any- 
thing unusual. 

When a man or woman is a frequent guest at 
a house, a tip at every stay is not necessary, but 
all the servants should be remembered once or 
twice a season. 

The above rules are not laid down for those 
men who persist in tipping from five dollars up 
for a stay of a day. Such are a law unto them- 
selves, and establish no precedent for those with 
smaller incomes. 

TAKING LEAVE 

To express appreciation of the hospitality 
which he has enjoyed, a guest, in taking leave, 
may say, ** You can hardly realize how much 
I have enjoyed my visit, Mrs. Blank ' ' ; or, * * I 
am deeply indebted to you, Mrs. Blank, for a 
delightful fortnight ''; or, ** This has been a 
most agreeable experience ; I can scarcely real- 
ize that it is over and that I must say good- 
bye. '' 



228 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

In taking leave, it is polite to bid adieu to 
each member of the family, asking to have mes- 
sages of farewell given to those absent. 

Promptly after a visit a short note should be 
sent to the hostess, informing her of the guest's 
safe arrival, and conveying anew the pleasure 
her entertainment has afforded. For stays of 
a day or two a letter of this sort is unnecessary. 
The following are proper forms : 

WoodvUle, 
July 30, 19 — . 
Mt Deab Mbs. Bichabdson : 

/ arrived home yesterday evening after a 
quick and pleasant journey. I am still full of 
memories of my delightfxd stay at the manor. 
Please give the baby my love and relieve Mr. 
Richardson about my baggage. It turned up 
at the home station safely. With many thanks 
to him and best regards to yourself, believe me, 
Ever sincerely, 

Akna Nobthbup Jamisoit. 

Or, 

76 Norton Place, 
September 6, 19 — . 
My Deab Mrs. Elverson : 

My journey homewards was an enjoyable one 
and spent mostly in thinking on the more than 
pleasant time I had at '' Briarnook/^ 



VISmNG AND HOUSE PARTIES 229 

/ have ventured to send you a copy of one of 
Kipling ^s to-day, which has just appeared on 
the bookstalls. I know from your fondness for 
that writer that you will enjoy it. 

With best regards to Mr. and to Miss Elver- 
son, believe me, 

Faithfully yours, 

Balph N. Peeston. 

A small gift to one's hostess is not amiss, 
when in the nature simply of a souvenir, but 
nothing savoring of a payment should ever be 
sent. A book, a pretty piece of embroidery, a 
pack of cards in a silver case, or a piece of 
music for which a wish has been expressed, are 
all allowable as gifts, and cannot be misunder- 
stood. However, this opportunity for gift- 
making is not regarded as an obligation, and is 
left to each one individually to take advantage 
of, or not, as he chooses. 



WEDDINGS 

No other incident in the whole length of the 
average human life is so fraught with vast po- 
tentialities for good or evil, for exquisite hap- 
piness or unqualified misery, as the event which 
makes a man the husband of a woman and the 
woman the wife of a man. 

The moment two young people have made the 
mutual confession that their supreme happiness 
is wrapped up in each other, they are within 
measurable distance of the great crisis of their 
lives. 

ENGAGED TO BE MARRIED 

Possibly there is no country in the world 
where young people enjoy the same freedom of 
action and liberty of conduct as in America. 
Compared with the mediaeval customs of Spain, 
the cautious — and, to American minds, the sus- 
picious — ^methods of the French, American girls 
enjoy supreme liberty. Doubtless this is due to 
the exalted position woman holds in American 
social life, a supremacy which, according to the 
French writer, Varigny, dates from the time 
when the New England colonies first conceded 

230 



mZDDINGS 231 

the right of a woman to dispose of her own 
hand in marriage. The cynic may say that in 
those days the scarcity of women was re- 
sponsible for this gift of independence, and that 
because of her very scarcity she could command 
her own price. But to the man of to-day such 
an argument cannot carry much weight, seeing 
that the twentieth-centurv woman has retained 
all her old prerogatives, not to speak of many 
more that she has wrung from the evolution of 
time, and which the early colonists would un- 
doubtedly have regarded as the most rabid form 
of anarchy. However, it is our business to 
speak of conditions as they are, and as some 
form and period of engagement must invariably 
precede the hastiest of marriages, it will be 
well to discuss the etiquette of the engagement 
at some little length before going on to the gen- 
eral subject of weddings. 

Throughout Continental Europe it would be 
impossible for young people of opposite sexes 
to see each other as freely and as frequently as 
in our own country; consequently, the general 
rule in these countries is for the man to ask the 
permission of the parents before offering his 
attentions to the daughter. In America a 
man's permission to win the woman he loves is, 
as a rule, taken for granted. In England the 
rule varies, according to the social status of the 



232 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



lovers. It is a point of etiquette for which no 
definite rule can be laid down; for, if it is true 
that * * Love laughs at locksmiths, ' ' it is surely 
true that the winged god has little respect for 
this particular social convention. It is certain, 
however, that the intimacy between parents 
and children which distinguishes American 
family life is the very best safeguard possible 
for the average American giri, for in our open 
way of living and entertaining it is scarcely 
possible for a daughter to receive the attentions 
of a man without the fact being immediately 
known to the parents. In the case of deception 
no rule or system holds good ; for where such a 
course is resorted to, parents have only the 
protection of their own suspicions and the girl 's 
sense of loyalty to their authority. If the 
young man is wise, he will make it a point to 
interview the loved one's parents the moment 
he has the girl's permission, making a full and 
free statement of his present condition, stand- 
ing m society, business prospects, and re- 
sources. This is not only a wise course, but 
it is the only one an honorable man can pursue. 
Should his plea be refused, patience and honor- 
able conduct usually overcome the most obsti- 
nate parent. 

Social conventions require that the announce- 
ment of an engagement shall come from the 



WEDDINGS 233 

~ 

young woman. This announcement may be 
published publicly, sent by note to those rela- 
tives and friends who should receive early in- 
formation of the event, or announced verbally. 
A good way, and the one most frequently em- 
ployed, is for the young lady to write to her 
intimate friends, informing them that her en- 
gagement will be announced on a certain near 
day ; this enables them to call, or send congrat- 
ulatory messages. These messages may very 
properly be accompanied by flowers. Next to the 
impropriety of keeping an engagement secret 
from a girPs parents, or, for that matter, the 
parents on either side, is to forget or omit the 
formal announcing of the engagement. In this 
' connection it will be well to point out that it is 
not at all the correct thing to ask near relatives 
or intimate friends of persons, whom report 
asserts to be engaged, whether such reports be 
true. Equally vulgar would it be for any one 
not an intimate friend or relative to ask any 
member of the two families whether they are 
pleased with the engagement. The afternoons 
the young lady has selected to be at home are 
expected to be used by the majority of the en- 
gaged young people's acquaintances to call on 
her. The prospective bridegroom's relatives 
and friends should also take this opportunity 
of making her acquaintance. 



234 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

BEFRESPMENTS 

On these occasions it is usnal to o£fer the 
callers tea, together with sandwiches and cakes, 
so that, altogether, the occasion is marked by 
a very charming cordiality. The family of the 
future husband should especially be affection- 
ate and cordial in their reception of their son's 
fiancee. Of late there has sprung up a fashion 
for intimate friends to send to a girl, upon re- 
ceiving news of her engagement, presents of 
teacups. The reason for this is somewhat 
vague, but as it is a tradition common to all 
parts of the world that the teacup is the main 
consolation of spinsterhood, the custom may 
have a humorous meaning. 

GONQBATULATIOKB 

Only the man is congratulated ; to the woman 
one wishes every degree of happiness. In the 
language of another writer, * * the word * felici- 
tation,' in its French sense, best covers the 
ground. ' ' A relic of barbarism survives in the 
distinction thus made between the man and the 
woman. The man is congratulated because of 
his success in the pursuit and ^' capture " of 
the woman. The interval between the betrothal 
and the marriage ceremony is a period crowded 
with joy and excitement. Friends hasten to ex* 



^TEDDINGS 235 

tend invitations for dinners, theatre parties, 
and many other forms of festivity. The two 
families in particular are most careful to ex- 
change hospitalities — the young man's family 
at all times taking the initiative. 

ACCEPTING CONGBATULATIONS 

In the present stage of development of human 
nature it is to be expected that discussion and 
criticism will be very much to the fore. * * Does 
she seem happy ? '^ or, * * Is he much in love I * ' 
one hears eagerly asked. Or, perhaps, on the 
other hand, the friends of both will question 
the wisdom of the step for business or family 
reasons. In any event, to all people, friend 
and foe alike, some degree of speculation and 
comment will be natural. Much annoyance 
and sometimes keen suffering may be saved by 
bearing these facts in mind. The young people 
must remember that once their engagement is 
public property, their behavior to each other, 
as well as to others, will be subject to a scrutiny 
never before experienced, so that they should 
at all times be on their guard. Nothing could 
be in worse taste than to see a girl making a 
public exhibition of her bliss, or to hear a man, 
when congratulated, trying to hide his embar- 
rassment behind a foolish f acetiousness that, at 
best, only makes him ridiculous. A good, 



236 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



honest handclasp, or a warm, sincere *' Thank 
yon ! ' ' will snffice for an acknowledgment. 

The engaged conple will be seen frequently 
together in public, but they should be careful 
not to make themselves conspicuous. It is 
taken for granted that they do not care for 
gayety or enjoyment apart from each other, 
and also that they love each other devotedly, 
consequently they will not be misunderstood if 
their public behavior should resemble that of 
any other average man and woman under simi- 
lar circumstances. 

'• HAPPY THE WOOING THAT's NOT LONG A-DOING '' 

This is an old saw frequently quoted by those 
who advocate short engagements ; but the gen- 
eral question, as to whether the engagement 
should be long or short, is one which involves 
much difference of opinion. As a matter of 
fact, the question is too serious for Fashion to 
have any say in the matter. Ordinarily the 
period of engagement is limited by financial 
considerations; a period of test or probation; 
or to gain suflScient time for the preparation 
of the home. A moderate period of time is the 
better course, but where a long engagement is 
necessary (if the young people are not suffi- 
ciently sure of each other, or if financial or 
other difficulties stand in the way) it would be 



WEDDINGS 237 

foolish to marry before all obstructions have 
been overcome. According to statistics, the 
modem trend, in circles where financial consid- 
erations do not obtain, is to a comparatively 
short engagement, while the opposite is the 
case among the classes not so well endowed with 
this world's goods. If a long engagement 
should serve to discover faults in the character 
or temperament of either party to the contract, 
the timft has not been wasted, for it still re- 
mains true that to marry in haste frequently 
means to repent at leisure. If spent rightly, 
the period of waiting will serve to develop a 
keener sense of responsibility on the part of 
the man, developing his best qualities because 
of the necessary self-denial in working and 
planning for the new home, while the girl has 
an opportunity to take a practical interest in 
the art of housekeeping and domestic economy 
which, in the vast majority of cases, has not 
been a distinguishing feature of the earlier part 
of her life. No matter how lofty a station she 
may occupy, or how big her establishment, a 
knowledge of the duties and responsibilities of 
the mistress of a household will be an absolute 
necessity to any woman who has the desire to 
be the wife of her husband and the mistress of 
a home, rather than the head of an establish- 
ment. It is well to remember, however, that 



238 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

the question of long or short engagements has 
a bearing on others besides the young people 
themselves. The man in particular should re- 
member that the unpopularity of the son-in- 
law with his wife's family, more frequently 
than not, has its origin in the long engagement 
that precedes his marriage, and when it is re- 
membered how easy it is for the absorbed lovers 
to forget the girPs parents and family, there 
is little wonder that the relations between son- 
in-law and parents-in-law are occasionally not 
all that could be desired. The man should re- 
member that until his fiancee becomes his wife, 
the rights of her family take precedence of his 
own, and if he will bear this fact in mind and 
show his recognition of it by curtailing in a 
measure the length and frequency of his visits, 
he will make much better progress in the esti- 
mation of his future wife 's family. 

THE EKGAQEMENT BING 

The ring is presented as soon as possible 
after the girl *s consent is won, but it is not pub- 
licly worn until the engagement is announced. 
The style and value of the ring will, of course, 
largely depend upon the taste and means of 
the giver. It would scarcely be right to say 
that Fashion dictates any particular pattern, 
but the practice of presenting a solitaire dia- 



WEDDINGS 239 



mond, or a diamond in combination with an- 
other gem, has become the castom, and conse- 
quently, in that regard at least, the fashion. A 
charming idea is the placing an inscription 
within the circlet, a practice which adds much to 
the sentimental value of the ring. Nothing could 
be in worse taste than for a young man to pre- 
sent his fiancee with a ring the value of which 
is plainly out of all proportion with the known 
condition of his financial standing. It does not 
by any means prove the depth of his devotion 
any more than if it had been but one-tenth the 
value. It does, however, betray a lack of bal- 
ance and a trace of vulgar ostentation which, 
in the minds of older men and women of the 
world, will inspire a doubt as to the stability 
and future success of the young man. In a way 
also it is certainly to be presumed that the 
woman has enough influence over her lover to 
prevent him from making so f ooUsh a mistake. 

DEMEANOB 

At quaint Long Meadow, in Massachusetts, 
there is still preserved a ** courting stick,*' 
through which, in the early days of our coun- 
try, young persons could whisper their tender 
nonsense to each other unheeded by the rest of 
the people in the room. These courting sticks 
were hollow tubes about eight feet long, and 



240 THE MODERN HOSTESS 



were considered a very practical necessity in 
many of our ** best families/' Eight feet 
would certainly be considered a whole continent 
in these twentieth-century days, but the illus- 
tration will serve to show the reserve, and, in 
a measure, the secrecy which society then de- 
manded of engaged people. Practically the 
whole burden of responsibility at this time 
rests with 

THE FIANCEE, 

for whom custom has decreed strict rules of 
conduct. As with all the other social conven- 
tions, there is considerably more liberty at 
present than there was twenty-five or fifty 
years ago, but even now it is not according to 
the strictest rules of conduct for a young lady 
to attend theatres, parties, or concerts alone 
with her fiance or to be seen driving with him 
in the evening, or on unfrequented roads. On 
the other hand, she is permitted to indulge 
in some of these pleasures, such as walking 
or driving occasionally, the only stipulation 
being that it should be in public and in an un- 
ostentatious manner. Fifty years ago the 
bride-elect was practically a social prisoner, 
allowed out only after nightfall, but although, 
as already stated, public opinion is no longer 
so radically straightlaced, well-bred men and 



BEDDINGS 241 

women will still be careful not to permit them- 
selves to go to the opposite extreme. 

A point that an engaged girl should always 
keep in mind is, that it is not wise to accept 
any presents from her lover that cannot be re- 
turned uninjured should the engagement be 
broken. Of course this does not apply to such 
trivialities as flowers and bonbons. In the 
period between the betrothal and the wedding- 
day the careful bride-to-be will scrupulously 
adhere to thq conventions regarding chaperon- 
age. At this point it will not be amiss to say 
a word for the parents of the girl. In certain 
respects they should be her first consideration, 
for upon them will fall the more or less heavy 
expense of the wedding, not to speak of the en- 
gagement period. The loving daughter will be 
as moderate as possible in her demands upon 
the paternal purse. The average American 
girl has much to learn from the careful, provi- 
dent, but altogether charming Gterman Frau- 
lein. 

The greatest ambition of the bride-to-be 
should be to come to the altar looking her pret- 
tiest, a result which will be impossible if she 
overtaxes her strength in preparing her trous- 
seau, indulging in wearing shopping expedi- 
tions, or nerve-racking visits to the dressmaker 
and milliner. 



242 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

The selection of the wedding date rests with 
the bride. 

WEDDIKQ FBEUMINABIBS 

Once the wedding day has been named, im- 
portant consultations between the two families 
will take place to settle the matter of invita- 
tions. Careful lists of the friends and acquaint- 
ances of both families will be made and the in- 
vitations ordered from the engraver at least 
three weeks or a month in advance of the time 
they are wanted for sending out. 

All the expenses of the wedding are assimied 
by the bride's family, including cards of invita- 
tion, floral decorations at house or church, or 
both, carriages for the bridal party and invited 
guests, music, and, in fact, every other expense 
incidental to the wedding, except the payment 
of the clergyman's fee, which is the bride- 
groom's privilege. Very frequently h6 also 
pays the organist and the sexton, but this is 
not required by conventional etiquette. 

In the matter of invitations, a very charming 
practice, and one becoming increasingly pop- 
ular, is for the bride-elect, with a number of her 
intimate friends gathered together for the pur- 
pose, to direct the invitations personally instead 
of leaving the task to the engraver or other 
agent. 



WEDDINGS 243 



INVITATIONS 

Wedding invitations may be sent ont at any 
time, from within four weeks to fifteen days of 
the date set for the marriage. They are issned 
in the name of the bride's father and mother, 
and, formerly, the cards of the bride- and 
groom-elect were enclosed, but this is a custom 
now rarely followed. 

The number of relations and friends invited 
will depend entirely upon circumstances that 
need not be mentioned here; sufficient to say 
that among the deciding factors will be the room 
at the disposal of the parents. For instance, 
where the wedding or wedding reception is at 
the house, it will surely be impossible to invite 
all one's acquaintances, and while this is to be 
regretted, yet it would be the worst of bad taste 
for friends to take oflFence because they were 
not invited; naturally, relatives and intimate 
friends must receive the first consideration. If 
the ceremony is to be held in church, invita- 
tions may be sent to all those whose names are 
on the visiting lists of the families of the bride 
and bridegroom, and to such relatives and 
friends as may be in mourning, travelling 
abroad, or prevented from attending by some 
other important reason. It is a good point, and 
one generally followed, to send invitations to 



244 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

the business associates of the bridegroom and 
the bride 's father, and also to offer a few extra 
invitations to the bridesmaids and ushers, who 
will thus be enabled to ask any of their friends 
or relatives who may wish to witness the cere- 
mony. 

Invitations should be engraved on the finest 
of pure white or cream-tinted paper, having an 
unglazed, smooth surface. Ordinarily, the 
conventional size of the sheet of paper used 
measures T^/^ by 6^4 in width, which measure- 
ment will enable it to be folded once to fit its 
envelope. Plain script still retains its old-time 
ascendancy, varied only by an occasional pref- 
erence for the Old English type or the heavy 
blackletter. 

Included with the order to the stationer or 
engraver for invitations is one for the en- 
velopes containing the engraved sheets, and 
larger and less expensive ones for the outer 
covering. As with ball invitations, the first 
envelope is inside and inscribed only with the 
name of the guest for whom it is meant, while 
the outer envelope of course carries the full ad- 
dress of its intended recipient. It is bad taste 
to make a single invitation serve for an entire 
family by addressing it to " Mr. and Mrs. So- 
and-So and family." An invitation should be 
sent to each individual, although custom per- 



"WEDDINGS 245 



mits the slight economy of addressing one to 
** Mr. and Mrs. So-and-So/' another to the 
** Misses So-and-So,'* and a third to the 
" Messrs. So-and-So.'* If there is to be a re- 
ception after the church wedding, it is cus- 
tomary to enclose cards for the reception in 
the same envelope with those for the church. 
Should the invitation include a regular wed- 
ding breakfast, or, in fact, only refer to a small 
house wedding, it is obligatory for the recipi- 
ents to answer the invitc^tion. Friends and ac- 
quaintances living at too great a distance, or 
who for any other reason are unable to attend 
the wedding, are expected to enclose their cards 
to the bride's father and mother, timing them 
so that they will arrive on the wedding-day. 
At the same time it would be improper to send 
answers to invitations to a church wedding or 
a large wedding reception where no answer has 
been requested, or to send an answer to an in- 
vitation to the bride or bridegroom's family 
when one does not happen to know the persons 
in whose name the invitation was sent. 

With regard to the form of the invitation, it 
is almost invariably found that the stationer 
has a sample book containing copies of invita- 
tions in current use, but where this is not the 
case the following examples will be found to 
cover the entire subject. 



246 THE MODEEU^ HOSTESS 

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Brown 
request the honour of your presence 

at the marriage of their daughter 



Alice 



to 



Mr. Walter Freere 
on Tuesday afternoon, November first, 

at four o'clock, 

St. Chrysostom's Church, 

Richmond, Virginia. 

If the bride 's family prefer to word their in- 
vitations correctly, rather than fashionably, 
they will substitute the word and, or with, in- 
stead of to. Another device which is greatly 
to be commended, not only because it gives an 
additional touch of elegance, but because of the 
greater courtesy which it conveys, is to write 
the name of the person invited instead of 
having it engraved. Of course this involves 
more labor, but it is assuredly a far better way. 



"^TBDDINGS 247 

This would necessitate the following arrange- 
ment : 

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Brown 
request the honour of 



presence at the marriage of their daughter 

Alice 

and 

Mr. Walter Freere 

on Tuesday afternoon, November first, 

at four o^clockj 

St. Chrysostom's Church, 

Richmond, Virginia. 

Should the bride be an orphan, her invitations 
are, of course, issued in the name of her near- 
est surviving relative ; if she has an older sister 
whose years warrant the procedure, the invita- 
tions should be issued in the sister ^s name. 
Sometimes it happens that they must be issued 
in the name of a brother who may or may not 
be married, in which case the phraseology 



248 THE 



would be : * * Mr. Harold Brown requests the 
honour of your presence at the marriage of 
his sister Alice/* 

The married sister of the bride would use the 
following form: ** Mr. and Mrs. Thomas H. 
Wright request the pleasure of your company 
at the marriage of Mrs. Wright's sister, Miss 
Alice Brown,'* etc. Grandparents, or any 
other relatives of the bride-elect, would also 
specify their exact degree of relationship to the 
bride. Unfortunately, it frequently happens 
that relatives either do not exist or are not 
available, and the wedding takes place at the 
house of a friend, in which case the invitations 
would read as follows: 

The pleasure of your company is requested 

at the marriage of 
Mrs. Lucy Thompson 

to (or '' with '') 

Mr. Frederick Hardin 

on Wednesday, November third, 

at half -past three o'clock, 

at the residence of 

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Campbell, 

Sixteen Main Street. 



I 



WEDDINGS 249 

Should the bride be a half -orphan and the 
remaining parent have remarried, her invita- 
tions are issued in the name of her own parent 
and her step-parent, the phraseology clearly 
defining whose child she is, unless she, through 
her affection for her step-parent, prefers not to 
have this distinction inserted. 

The wedding cards of a stepdaughter would 
take this form : * * Mr. and Mrs. Edward B. 
Hilton request the pleasure of your company 
at the marriage of Mrs. Hilton's daughter, 
Florence Potter ' ' ; or, should she be the daugh- 
ter of the husband : * * Mr. and Mrs. Edward B. 
Hilton ... at the marriage of Mr. Hilton's 
daughter, Florence.'' 

If the father is a widower, it goes without 
saying that the cards will be issued in his name 
alone. 

This formula is engraved on the first page 
of a double sheet, and under no circumstances 
must occupy more than one page. Modem 
usage demands that the words ' * honour of your 
presence " be employed whenever the invita- 
tion is for a church wedding. Where the con- 
tracting parties are of such social prominence 
that it is more than probable inquisitive 
strangers will obtrude their presence, to the 
entire upsetting of the most careful arrange- 
ments, it will be found absolutely necessary to 



250 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

guard against the imposition by enclosing with 
every invitation a card of admission. These 
cards are slips of white cardboard measuring 
about 4iy4 by ^V2 inches, and inscribed : 

Please present this card at 



St. Thomas's Church, 

on Thursday, October fifth. 

When a church wedding is followed by a re- 
ception or breakfast, the bride's people would 
enclose with the wedding invitation an engraved 
card, reading: 

Mr. and Mrs. William Fenton 

request the pleasure of 



company 



on Monday, October first, 

at half -past twelve o'clock. 

Fifteen Pleasant Avenue. 



»• 8. V. P. 



TEDDINGS 25f 

This card would be of medium size, a point 
usually determined by the stationer. A briefer 
form would be the following: 



Reception 

from half -past three o'clock. 

Fifteen Pleasant Avenue. 



R. 8. r. p. 

Possibly the most sensible as well as the 
most charming form for an invitation to a mid- 
day wedding which is to be followed by a break- 
fast at the bride's home is that which follows 
the English model. It is engraved on a double 
sheet, and at the bottom of the page, in small 
lettering, the following words are to be found : 
** And afterwards at breakfast,'' followed by 
the address of the bride's parents. 

If the wedding is at home the invitations are 
the same as for a church ceremony, except that 
the phrase ** pleasure of your company " is 
used instead of * * honour of your presence. ' ' If 
the wedding ceremony is to be witnessed only 
by the immediate families, but followed by a 
large reception, the invitations will be worded 
as follows : 






2S2 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

Mr. and Mrs. Frank H. Mott 

request the pleasure of your company 

at the wedding reception of their daughter 

Madeline 



and 



Mr. John Henry Herrick, 

on Monday afternoon, October fourth, 

at four o'clock. 

Two Hundred La Salle Avenue. 

In the case of special friends or relatives 
whose presence is desired at the marriage cere- 
mony, small cards will be enclosed, upon which 
is engraved, ** Ceremony at half after three 
o 'clock. ' * It may happen that the wedding is to 
take place in a country neighborhood,^ or some 
other locality some little distance away from 
the town or city from which the majority of the 
guests are expected. When such is the case, 
a schedule of trains, or other means of trans- 
port, either provided especially for the guests 
or which they will find to be most convenient 
for their purpose, will be specified as follows : 



WEDDINGS 253 

•— — liMiiM^^ ■ ..II ■ .11 a 

Train leaves Broad Street Station 
for Rosedale at 3.10 p. m. 

Returning train leaves Rosedale 
for New York at 6.15 p. m. 

Occasionally the bride's parents can afford 
to place a special train at the service of their 
out-of-town guests, in which case a card is en- 
closed in the invitation which will serve as the 
guest's passport to a seat in the reserved 
coaches. It would read as follows : 

Special train leaves 

Broad Street Station for Rosedale 

at 3.10 p. m. 

Rosedale for Broad Street Station 

at 6.15 p. m. 

Please present this card at the station gate. 

Such elaborate preparation as the hiring of 
a special train entails the addition of the let- 
ters E. S. V. P., which will enable the host and 
hostess to know for how many persons they 
must provide. A growing custom amon^ the 






254 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

ladies of the most exclusive Eastern society 
circles is to substitute the following English 
phrase — ^^ The favor of a reply is requested '' 
— instead of the time-honored French initials, 
E. S. V. P. 

There is little difference between the cards of 
invitation to a woman's second marriage and 
those employed for the first ceremony. They 
are issued in^ the name of her parents or other 
relatives. Her own Christian name or names 
must invariably be supplemented by the sur- 
name of her deceased husband, as : 

Mr. and Mrs. Le Roy Jones 

request the honour of your presence 

at the marriage of their daughter, 

Mrs. Eleanor Hall, 

with 

Mr. Joseph Parker, 

on Tuesday, December fourth, 

at twelve o'clock, 

at 

St. Joseph's Church, 

Beech Grove. 



WEDDINGS 255 

Should the widow desire to dispense with 
relatives as hosts and sponsors, her cards 
would read : 

The honour of your presence is requested 

at the marriage of 

Mrs. Mary O'Donnell 

with 

Mr. John Harris Twomy 

on Tuesday afternoon, June fourth, 

at five o'clock. 

Church of the Ascension. 

If a public announcement of a marriage is 
not made until after marriage has taken place, 
announcement cards should be mailed to all 
relatives and friends of the bride and groom. 
If the marriage is only to be witnessed by a 
few persons, and no invitations are issued, it 
will be necessary for announcement cards to be 
sent, reading as follows — care being taken to 



256 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

see that they are posted on the day of the wed- 
ding: 

Mr. and Mrs. John Wells Dana 
have the honour of announcing 
the marriage of their daughter 

Gertrude 

with 

Mr. Henry Lewis Avery 

on Thursday, October second, 

1904, 
at St. PauVs Chapel. 

In such an instance the joint card of the newly 
married couple could very properly be enclosed 
with the announcement. This card should bear 
the address of the newly united couple, giving 
the bride's day at home, where necessary, as 
well. 

Another form of announcement which carries 
its own meaning is as follows : 



BEDDINGS 257 

Mr. Francis Random 
and 



Miss Lucy Davis 
have the honour of announcing 

their marriage 

on Saturday, November fourth, 

One thousand nine hundred and four. 

The First Congregational Church, 

Philadelphia. 



RECALLINO INVITATIONS 

In the sad event of illness or any other acci- 
dent compelling the postponement of a wed- 
ding for which invitations have been issued in 
the ordinary way, the parents of the bride will 
promptly issne printed cards notifying those 
who have been invited of the change which cir- 
cumstances have necessitated. A form usually 
adopted is : 

Owing to the sudden illness of Mr. Stephen 
Hood's father, Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Hood 



258 THE 



beg to recall the cards issued for their daugh- 
ter's wedding reception. 

It has already been stated that it is not neces- 
sary to return a written reply to wedding in- 
vitations unless such invitations include a 
breakfast or luncheon, or bear the letters R. S. 
V. P. Should it be impossible or inconvenient 
for a guest to accept an invitation, such fact 
should be politely stated in some such form as 
follows, sending the note, whenever possible, 
by messenger. This acknowledgment should be 
sent on the day of the marriage and should en- 
close two visiting cards addressed to the bride 's 
parents. 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Wainwright 

regret their inability to accept 

the kind invitation of 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Houston 

to the wedding reception of their daughter 



on Thursday afternoon, October fourth, ^ 



at four o'clock. 



i 



WEDDINGS 259 

An acceptance would be couched as follows : 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Wainwright 
accept with pleasure the kind invitation of 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Houston 

to the wedding reception of their daughter, 

on Thursday afternoon, October fourth, 

at four o^cloch. 

WEDDING ANNIVEBSABIE8 

Suitable originality is both possible and per- 
missible in the design of an invitation to a wed- 
ding anniversary. Very frequently they are so 
designed as to disclose by their ornamentation 
the meaning of the occasion. Or, they may 
display the interwreathed initials of husband 
and wife, while in the upper left comer the 
year of the marriage is given and in the oppo- 
site right upper corner that of the anniversary 
which it is intended to celebrate. Frequently 
silver lettering is employed to indicate a silver 
wedding, etc. The following are conventional 
forms : 



2tt THE BiODERN HOSTESS 

1879 W. E. 1904 

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Peel 

at home 

Thursday evening, June fourth, 

after nine o'clock. 

Forty Lake Shore Drive. 
Or, 

1879 1904 

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Peel 

request the pleasure of your company 

on the twenty-fifth 

anniversary of their marriage 

on Thursday afternoon, June fourth, 

from four until seven o'clock. 

Forty Lake Shore Drive. 

Cards or invitations to wedding anniversary 
receptions do not demand a formal written ac- 
ceptance, unless one is requested. A sufficient 
acknowledgment of the receipt of the invitation 



^TEDDINGS 261 

is the presence of th« gue=t. while regreto are 
sent by mailing visiting cards addressed to the 
host and hostess on the day'of the function, or, 
better still, despatching them by messenger at 
the hour set for the reception. 

An unmarried man posts two of his cards, 
while but one is expected from an unmarried 
woman. Married couples, however, are ex- 
pected to send two of the husband's cards with 
one of the wife's. While announcement cards 
need no acknowledgment, well-bred people in- 
variably leave their cards or call on the bride's 
parents within two weeks of the receipt of the 
formal notification of the marriage, and not un- 
frequently friends of the bride and groom 
answer announcement cards by brief notes of 
congratulation addressed to one or the other. 
This, of course, would be the case when the 
friend lives at some considerable distance. 

TIME AKD PLACE FOB THE WEDDING 

It is said that superstition dies hard, and in 
few cases is this more true than in the careful 
thought that is given to the time chosen for a 
wedding. For ages there has been a prejudice 
against marrying in the month of May and an 
equally strong predilection for the month of 
June. Of course there is much more to be said 
for Jime than for any other month in the year. 



2C THE MODERN HOSTESS 



It is the month of roses and sunshine, and is 
a time ef the year when Nature is at her fresh- 
est and the long summer days are usually char- 
acterized by a stability of weather conditions 
that probably ho other month can offer. Octo- 
ber is another popular month — ^but little less 
popular, in fact, than the month of June. 

The Lenten season is practically the only 
period when no wedding of any distinction is 
ever celebrated. As a matter of fact, it would 
practically be impossible, unless under excep- 
tional circumstances, to hold a church wedding 
in either Boman Catholic, Episcopal, or Lu- 
theran churches during that season of fast and 
penance. 

The superstition touching Friday clings with 
additional tenacity to the general question of 
wedding-days. All other days of the week save 
Sunday are favored, but she is a plucky bride 
indeed who would dare face the awful penalties 
that superstition attaches to a Friday wedding. 

It has become very niuch the fashion in 
America to follow the English precedent in se- 
lecting the hour for the ceremony. Conse- 
quently, ** high noon '* is the more generally 
selected hour. The origin of this custom in 
England is not at all flattering to the people of 
that day, for that early hour, comparatively 
speaking, had become an absolute necessity if it 



TEDDINGS ia 

was desired to insure the sobriety of the bride- 
groom. Of course, these were days of hard 
drinking and of conditions which would not be 
tolerated to-day, least of all in England. This 
will be unwelcome reading for many of those 
who lament the passing of the ** good old 
times. ' ' A far more sensible time would be be- 
tween three and five o'clock in the afternoon. 
Such an arrangement offers such sterling ad- 
vantages as a greater leisure for preparation 
and far greater convenience for the guests, and 
certainly a far more easily managed entertain- 
ment or reception after the ceremony. 

All the details of the wedding are left to the 
choice of the bride or her family. She will 
usually select her bridesmaids from her circle 
of intimate friends and relatives, and, if pos- 
sible, include one or more sisters of the bride- 
groom. It is the traditional privilege of the 
bride's best friend to serve as maid of honor, 
exception being made in favor of a sister. Sim- 
ilarly, the best man is usually the brother of the 
bridegroom or his closest friend. The ushers 
are selected from among the acquaintances of 
both the young people. 



BBmSSMAms' DINNEB 



A very popular custom is for the bride-elect 
to give a dinner to her bridesmaids, usually 



264 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

about a week before the marriage. The groom, 
his best man, and nshers may be invited, but 
ordinarily the affair is confned to the brides- 
maids and such other girl friends as may be 
desired. This dinner is probably the greatest 
frolic of all that take place during the engage- 
menty and is invariably an opportunity of which 
the average girl will accordingly avail herself 
to revive all the innocent old superstitions. 
For instance, what such dinner would be com- 
plete without the huge cake which is brought 
with the ices at the close of the feast and which 
contains a ring, a key, and a thimble t The dis- 
coverers of each are supposed to be fitted for 
either marriage, wealth, or single-blessedness. 
With this surely the worshipper of the good 
old days will disparagingly compare the old- 
fashioned quilting party which formerly was 
the important girl function preceding the mar- 
riage. Certainly this old-time custom had a 
utilitarian purpose very foreign to its modem 
successor. A keen eye to future housekeeping 
interests always saw to it that the quilting 
party had the greatest practical value. The 
prosaic character of the occasion, however, was 
varied with the usual superstitions. For in- 
stance, the young woman who set the last stitch 
would surely be the first bride, and should any 
unfortunate young woman drop scissors or 



▼EDKNGS . 265 

thimble, woe be to her chances of marriage for 
that year at least ! 

In these times the bride-elect uses the dinner 
to present to her bridesmaids souvenirs^ which 
ordinarily consist of simple pieces of jewelry, 
such as fans or such other trifles as may be 
wanted at the wedding ceremony. In any case 
they are all alike. Unf ortimately, such a pro- 
ceeding is apt to form an expensive addition to 
resources already severely taxed, but if the girl 
be at all clever, she may prepare some little gift 
that will be all the more valuable because it 
has been made by her own fair fingers. 

bbidegboom's dinner 

Custom demands that the expectant groom 
should also give a ** stag '' dinner to his best 
man, ushers, and intimate friends some time 
within a week or so of his marriage. The din- 
ner is given at his club if he is a member of one, 
or in a private room of some restaurant, or it 
may be at his own home, although usually that 
method is only adopted where the other two are 
impossible. The ushers find beside their * * but- 
tonholes *' such little presents as scarf pins, for 
instance, which will serve as souvenirs of the 
wedding. The bachelor dinner does not fall 
behind that of the bride in the matter of merri- 
ment. A prominent feature of most bachelor 



266 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

dinners is the drinking of the bride's health. 
This custom is not demanded arbitrarily for 
her, and it is omitted entirely without any ap- 
parent loss to the cordiality and enjoyment of 
the occasion. Where the custom is followed, 
however, the bride's health is drunk standing, 
after which each man breaks his glass, osten- 
sibly that it may never be put to less honor- 
able use. This follows an ancient custom in the 
officers' mess of the British army when the 
health of the king or queen is called for. It is 
scarcely necessary to say that both the bride- 
groom and his guests will see to it that the mer- 
riment incidental to this occasion does not as- 
sume a character that would be an insult to the 
bride were she present. 

CHUBCH OB H0M£ WEDDINGS? 

To the religiously inclined man or woman 
there can be no question as to preference in the 
matter of a church or home wedding. Partic- 
ularly is this true should the bride belong to 
any of the older religious communions. Cer- 
tain it is that the hallowed sanctity of the house 
of God seems to breathe a Divine benediction 
that should be comforting to the bride^ who is 
moving forward to an entirely new environ- 
ment, and giving up the remainder of her life 
to the control and influence of another human 



WEDDINGS 2a 

being. Then, if ever, she needs the conscious- 
ness of a Divine protector. On the other hand, 
a home wedding carries with it a sense of 
warmth and human cordiality that is particu- 
larly attractive to the girl whose home life has 
been her highest happiness. 

Among the Protestant communions the state- 
liest wedding ceremony is undoubtedly that of 
the Protestant Episcopal Church, for although 
parts, if not all, of its wedding ritual are bor- 
rowed by other churches, there are a solemnity 
and a power which would seem to be inseparable 
from a ritualistic service that has been un- 
varying since the first day of the Christian era. 
It will be best, therefore, to describe a church 
wedding in the Episcopal Church and with the 
Episcopal ritual, seeing that but little altera- 
tion would be necessary to fit the description 
for the church of any other denomination. 

But first it will be in order to speak of the 
more important details, any one of which, if 
forgotten, might impair the entire ceremony. 
The bridegroom will make it his business to 
arrange for the marriage license, or, in those 
States where that is not necessary, to see the 
clergyman who is to perform the ceremony. In 
this connection it may happen to be desired 
that some clergyman officiate other than the 
rector or vicar of the church in which the cere- 



26S THE MODERN HOSTESS 

mony is to be held. In such a case, the bride- 
groom should call on the rector first and 
broach the matter delicately, paving the way 
for a consent to his request. It must be borne 
in mind that this is a point upon which every 
clergyman is very properly sensitive. If it is 
to be a public wedding, arrangements will have 
to be made with the sexton for the opening of 
the church. However, the rector will issue the 
necessary orders if requested by the groom. 

With regard to music, organist, choristers, 
organ blower, etc., some churches have a fixed 
tariff, while in others it is left to the organist 
to charge what he will, or it is left, like the min- 
ister's fee, to the generosity of the groom. 
Usually, the bride and her mother will discuss 
and arrange with the organist the musical pro- 
gramme to be played on the occasion. There is 
a frequent joke of which the humorous writers 
invariably avail themselves concerning the 
character of the musical selections sometimes 
made. For instance, at a church in the vicinity 
of New York the organist astounded his con- 
gregation by playing such pieces as ** 0, 
Promise Me ' * and similar numbers. It will be 
apparent to the most unimaginative reader how 
vilely out of place such music sounds in a 
temple dedicated to the worship of God, and 
during a service which, in the opinion of the 



^WEDDINGS 269 

vast majority of the chnrchgoers of such com- 
munion, is a sacrament of the Church. Op- 
eratic music, vocal or instrumental, is asso- 
ciated with the theatre rather than with the 
church, and its employment during a wedding 
ceremony is an inconsistency which will mar its 
solemnity for very many of the people who have 
to listen to it. 

The organ compositions of Guilmant, Wider, 
Brahms, and many of our American organ 
composers will be found in every good organ- 
ist's repertoire, and from these he should be 
allowed to make his selections. The one ex- 
ception to this rule would be, perhaps, the bri- 
dal chorus from ** Lohengrin, *' but, where this 
is sung, care should be taken that words suit- 
able for the occasion are substituted for the 
words used in the opera. 

The question of singing a hymn is a vexed 
one, the general rule being to omit it and sub- 
stitute instead a short anthem. Perhaps one 
of the simplest and at the same time most ex- 
quisite ceremonies witnessed in New York City 
for many years was that of the Duke of Eox- 
burghe with a daughter of the Goelet family, 
which occurred at St. Thomas's Church, New 
York City, in the early part of 1904. The 
anthem for the occasion was Bamby's ** Sweet 
is Thy Mercy, Lord,'' an anthem which in its 



270 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

sweet simplicity is exquisitely beantifult and 
fitted for the occasion, while at the same time it 
is within the reach of the most primitive conn- 
try choir. The Chnrch Hynmal will be found to 
contaia several hymns set apart for a marriage 
service. In England tradition nearly always 
favors ** The voice that breathed o'er Eden.*' 

The organist will give a short organ recital, 
taking up from twenty to thirty minutes, before 
the time set for the ceremony. This covers all 
the confusion incidental to placing guests in the 
positions allotted to them, and at the same time 
interests those who come early. 

The chancel of the church will be decorated 
according to the resources of the florist en- 
gaged; but here, again, care must be taken to 
secure permission of the rector before attempt- 
ing to place any decorations in his church. K 
the decorations are to be elaborate, the florist 
or decorator, besides supplying flowers for the 
altar and the reading desk, will also cover the 
chancel rail and choir stalls and swing a rope 
of flowers across the centre aisle, in place of 
the white ribbon which is generally used to 
mark the division. 

For a city church an awning will be found 
very useful. A strip of carpet will be laid from 
the edge of the curb to the church door, while 
a man in livery will be stationed at the carriage 



WBDJXNQS 271 

steps to receive checks and call the vehicles 
again when needed. The church should be 
open at least half an hour before the ceremony, 
at which time the organist should be at his in- 
strument and the ushers prepared to show 
guests to their seats. It is customary to set 
apart the first two to four or eight pews next 
the chancel on the right and left of the centre 
aisle for the accommodation of the families 
immediately concerned, together with their in- 
timate friends, and a string of flowers or a 
white satin ribbon will be used to form a barrier 
between these favored ones and the rest of the 
company. In many cases, however, and par- 
ticularly if the ushers are alert, such a protec- 
tion will not be necessary, for it will be com- 
paratively easy for them to take people where 
they are to sit during the ceremony. Innu- 
merable jealousies and heart-burnings have 
been the result of a seat above or below this 
floral barrier, a possibility which is not at all 
probable where such a barrier is not employed 
and ushers are left free to manage the affair 
themselves. 

The bridegroom, according to custom, will 
provide the bride with her bouquet, performing 
a like favor to the bridesmaids. In addition to 
the souvenirs to his best man and ushers, he 
also supplies the gloves and neckties worn by 



272 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

these gentlemen, although it is the duty of the 
best man to ascertain the size of gloves and 
attend to their purchase. These should be sent 
to the addresses of the men done up in boxes 
tied with white ribbon, although they are some- 
times placed at their covers at the formal 
bachelor dinner given by the bridegroom. 

The clergyman 's fee is the chief question for 
the bridegroom to decide. This is rarely less 
than five dollars. This money or check is 
placed in an envelope and entrusted to the best 
man. The money for the organist and choir 
and music generally should be enclosed in an- 
other envelope and handed to the organist im- 
mediately after service. 

THE BBn)E 

The bride decides on the style, pattern, and 
making of the bridesmaids ' gowns, and if these 
are paid for by the young women themselves it 
is always well to remember to select colors, 
styles, and material that it may be possible for 
their wearers to use after the original occasion 
has passed. Of course, if the bride is very 
wealthy, it would be a generous and considerate 
action to pay for iiie dresses herself. 

The bridesmaids' gowns are usually light in 
color, and form an artistic contrast to the 
bride's dress. They carry large bouquets of 



WEDDINGS 273 

flowers that correspond with the shade em- 
ployed in their costnmes. 

The maid of honor is an exception in that her 
gown is different in color from those of the 
bridesmaids, the idea usually being to have it 
of a shade which transposes the color of the 
bridesmaids' dresses into the white of the bridal 
attire, and in any case it will be of a more elab- 
orate design. Of late there has sprung up the 
practice of employing a matron of honor in- 
stead of a maid of honor; but this is usually 
only when the favored sister or friend of the 
bride is a married woman. 

All the women of the party wear hats and 
gloves, a fashion for which St. Paul is reppon- 
sible, at least so far as the hats are concerned. 
Should it happen that a close friend of the 
bride's is in mourning, and yet desires to be 
present, it will be entirely proper for her to 
discard her mourning for that occasion, for a 
marriage is a religious rite and in that sense 
exempt from the conventions that dominate 
social functions pure and simple. Above all 
else the bride should make every effort to be on 
time. She should be at the church door exactly 
on the stroke of the hour named in her invita- 
tions, but to do this properly it will be neces- 
sary to arrange that the bridesmaids and maid 
of honor are assembled in their carriages in 



274 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

good season before the bride ^s door, ready for 
the drive to the church. 

The bride ^8 mother and family leave the 
house for the church a little in advance of the 
bridal party. At the church door the mother is 
met by the head usher and is escori;ed to her 
seat, which is in the first pew to the left, at the 
top of the centre aisle. 

When the bridal party appears at the church 
the vestibule and centre aisle are cleared by the 
ushers and at the same time the doors leading 
from the vestibule into the church are closed, 
which enables the bride and her party to as- 
semble for the procession to the altar. 

The bridegroom, with his best man, is waiting 
in an alcove, or vestry-room, near the altar. 
When everything is in readiness, the bridal 
party correctly formed, the organist at his in- 
strument, and the priest in the chancel, an 
usher detailed for the duty gives the signal to 
everybody. Immediately the organ peals forth 
its welcoming strains, the priest rises and 
stands, half facing the advancing procession, 
the bridegroom, closely followed by his best 
man, emerges from his waiting-place, and sta- 
tions himself at the left of the chancel gate, 
turning to meet his advancing bride — ^the 
groomsman retaining his position behind the 
groom. The bridal procession is led by the 



WEDDINGS 275 

^■— ■ -^— ^.^^^^^ III 

ushers, walking two by two, followed by the 
bridesmaids in the same order. Each file 
should maintain a distance from the file in front 
of at least five feet, preferably six. 

Next in order of precedence comes the maid 
of honor, who walks alone, immediately pre- 
ceding the bride — except in the more important, 
or rather the more elaborate, ceremonials, for 
it very frequently happens that the more im- 
portant are the most simple. Frequently the 
maid of honor will be followed by two little 
flower-boys or flower-girls scattering flowers in 
the aisle as they walk before the bride. If the 
choir is engaged, it will meet the procession at 
the vestibule door, and precede it to the altar. 
The singers proceed to their ordinary places in 
the choir stalls, singing an epithalamium, which 
will be brought to a close at the moment when 
the choirmaster or organist (whoever is in 
charge of the music) sees that all the persons 
who are to take part in the ceremony are in 
their assigned places and ready for the cere- 
mony to commence. A practice which, for a 
good many years, had been very prevalent 
throughout the country was to have the organ- 
ist play a very subdued accompaniment to the 
service, but of late there has sprung up a strong 
sentiment against it, on the score of its seeming 
theatricalism. Incidentally, theatricalism is 



276 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

the one danger of a ritualistic service, a danger 
for which the average man or woman will do 
well to be constantly on the alert. The singing 
of a processional has a far more devotional 
and, consequently, a far better effect than the 
mere accompaniment of an organ; but, of 
course, the services of singers are not easily ob- 
tained, and constitute an expense not in the 
least essential to a well-ordered ceremony. 

The bride, leaning on the right arm of her 
father,— or whoever is to give her away, — 
brings up the rear of the procession, which, 
arriving at the top of the chancel steps, divides, 
half going to the right and half to the left. 
They are grouped so as to form a semicircle on 

• 

either side, the bridesmaids placing themselves 
between the ushers. Various artifices are re- 
sorted to to insure every individual taking up 
his appointed place; usually a chalk line is 
adopted. The maid of honor takes her place in 
front of the bridesmaids, and to the left rear of 
the bride. The bridegroom, of course, ad- 
vances to the head of the chancel steps to meet 
the bride, whereupon her escort surrenders her 
to him, and they proceed to take their places 
before the clergyman, kneeling for a moment in 
silent devotion. The bride *s father or escort 
meanwhile will step back a few feet before the 
clergyman begins the marriage ceremony. In 



^TEDDINGS 277 

England it is a custom to hold the betrothal ser- 
vice at the foot of the chancel steps, near where 
the reading desk ordinarily stands, the more 
solemn ceremony which makes them man and 
wife being performed before the altar, where 
the bride and bridegroom stand alone with the 
priest. Of course there are many other 
methods of escorting the bride to the altar, but 
in the striving after novelty the bride should be 
careful not to permit the ceremony to degen- 
erate into vulgar display or the cheaper theat- 
ricalism already spoken of. Sometimes the 
order just described is departed from, and in- 
stead of the eight bridesmaids preceding the 
bride, they proceed up the side aisles in groups 
of four and in single file, meeting at the chancel 
steps and returning down the centre aisle in 
pairs, where they meet the bride about half-way 
down. Here the couples divide, standing on 
either side of the aisle, while the bride and her 
escort pass between, the bridesmaids re-form- 
ing arid following after. The order is changed 
for the ushers also, who, in the instance just 
given, precede the bridesmaids up the side 
aisles, remaining at the chancel to await the 
procession ; re-forming the moment it has passed 
between them. Wlien the clergyman arrives at 
that part of the service where he asks the ques- 
tion *' Who giveth this woman to be married 



278 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

-■-TT -- T . ■ ■■ — - I . 

to this mant " the father or other near relative 
whose duty it is to give the bride away, ad- 
vances and, taking her right hand, places it in 
that of the clergyman, who in turn gives it into 
the right hand of the bridegroom. This duty 
done, the father, or whoever takes his place, 
will leave the bridal party and join the bride's 
family in the pew reserved for their use. 

Should the widowed mother of the bride give 
her away, she will merely rise from her seat and 
bow her consent. Here also there is a varia- 
tion of order, for occasionally it is so arranged 
that the bride retains her father's arm, staying 
by his side until the promises are made. When 
taking her hand from his arm he places it ten- 
derly in the hand of the bridegroom. While 
this procedure varies from the traditional cus- 
tom it has a certain charm in the sentiment 
which it conveys. But it is with the ceremony 
of the ring that the climax of interest is 
reached. This has been in the care of the best 
man, who will, when the clergyman comes to 
the '* plighting of the troth and giving of the 
ring," take it from his pocket and hand it to 
the bridegroom. Just before this, however, the 
bride and bridegroom have clasped hands, the 
bride's gloves and bouquet being held by the 
maid of honor, who must be in readiness to re- 
ceive them. The best man having given the 



"^TEDDINGS 279 

ring to the bridegroom, that individual imme- 
diately passes it over to the bride, who in turn 
hands it to the clergyman, who then completes 
the circle by giving it back again to the bride- 
groom, who places it upon the fourth finger of 
the bride's left hand. 

THE WEDDmO-BINa 

The wedding-ring is always of plain gold with 
the initials of the bride and bridegroom, to- 
gether with the date of marriage engraved on 
its inside. Tradition states that the fourth 
finger of the left hand was chosen to wear the 
ring, because it was supposed that a nerve con- 
nected that finger directly with the heart. Of 
late some have held that the word ** obey *' in 
the marriage service is an anachronism abso- 
lutely foreign to the position of woman in this 
twentieth century. This may or may not be so, 
according to the point of view, but to the great 
majority of American women at least the word 
is nothing to quibble about. It is still true that 
the American girl is a helpmeet to her husband 
in the highest sense of the word, and that the 
word * * obey ' ' has not by any means the same 
implication as in those parts of the world where 
the woman is merely a chattel, having but a 
comparative value with her lord and master's 
horse and dog. In any event, it is not likely 



280 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

that the average bride for a long time to come 
will give the matter much serious thought. The 
old and charming custom of the young husband 
kissing his bride immediately after the words 
" I pronounce you man and wife ** is now en- 
tirely out of f ashion. At the end of the cere- 
mony the clergyman congratulates the couple. 
It is still the custom to-day in England for the 
clergyman to make a few remarks regarding 
the responsibilities to be assumed, closing with 
a few words of fatherly advice ; but in the rit- 
ualistic churches of America such a thing rarely 
happens. This rule varies among churches of 
different communions, obtaining preferably 
where an officiating minister has had close pas- 
toral relations with the bride's or bridegroom's 
family. Sometimes it happens that the same 
minister has married the parents, baptized the 
child, prepared it for its first communion, and 
exercised a spiritual fatherhood which is now 
culminating in another marriage. Under these 
circumstances it is only natural that the min- 
ister will be expected to add a few words to the 
regular service. The bridal procession turns 
from the altar and proceeds down the aisle in 
reverse order to that in which they enter, 
Strictly speaking, the friends and relatives ol 
the bridal party should retain their seats untt 
the procession reaches the church vestibule. 



WEDDINGS 28i 

Before commencing the recessional the maid 
of honor will either part or remove the veil 
which thus far has covered the bride 's face, and 
at the same time so manipulate her train that 
it will hang properly. Arriving at the vesti- 
bule, the famiUes of the bride and bridegroom 
are then released, and the entire party proceeds 
to the bride's house, the bride and bridegroom 
driving away together. In order that the 
bridal coach may be ready to receive the newly 
married pair, the best man follows the clergy- 
man into the vestry and hurries down the side 
aisle or through the basement of the church 
door, where he may ascertain that everything 
is in readiness and at the ^ame time give to the 
bridegroom his hat and coat. When the party 
arrives at the house of the bride the best man 
and the ushers at once take up the duty of pre- 
senting the guests to the bridal pair. 

In England, and occasionally in this country 
where the marriage is solemnized in a ritual- 
istic church, the bridal party first goes into the 
vestry before leaving the church and the names 
are signed in the church records, as also those 
of the witnesses. If the church should possess 
a peal of bells, which is not unfrequently the 
case, a very suggestive and effective coloring 
may be given to the entire affair by having the 
bells rung after the service. There is a light- 



282 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

hearted happiness about the peal of the church 
bells that appeals to the most stolid tempera- 
ment and adds a touch of festivity that is in- 
describably suggestive of happy hearts and 
bright hopes. 

There may be a wedding breakfast or a wed- 
ding reception, according to the time at which 
the marriage occurs, the reception, of course, 
having the advantage of permitting the enter- 
taining of many more friends than can be ac- 
commodated at breakfast ; hence the popularity 
of the afternoon wedding. 

A popular custom is for the members of both 
families and the bridal attendants and the 
guests of the occasion to enter their names in 
a register specially provided for that occasion, 
the signatures of the newly married pair being 
entered first. The best man will make this his 
special province, and will see to it that every 
facility is provided. It is doubtful whether the 
newly married pair will have any more valuable 
souvenir than this book, which, when bound in 
white and decorated with the arms or initials 
of the bride and bridegroom, is as artistic a 
souvenir as it is valuable. 

After the bride and bridegroom's parents and 
the bridal attendants generally have expressed 
their love and congratulations, the bridesmaids 
take up their position with the young couple 



WEDDINGS 283 

and their parents in some easily accessible place 
and the congratulations of friends are received. 
Half the bridesmaids place themselves at the 
right hand of the bride and the rest on the left 
of the bridegroom; the bride's mother is the 
supreme hostess, and the parents of the bride- 
groom are the guests of honor. After being 
presented or offering their congratulations the 
.guests will move about the room as occasion 
may demand, but the bridal pair will keep their 
places. 

In receiving congratulations the bride ex- 
tends her hand with warm cordiality, and should 
any of her personal friends be unknown to her 
husband, she should later see these brought in 
order to present them. 

KISSING AT WEDDINGS 

Formerly indiscriminate kissing was a most 
conspicuous feature of a wedding, and those 
who had not succeeded in getting sufficiently 
near the bride during her progress from the 
altar to her carriage invariably forced their 
generally unwelcome salutation on the imfor- 
tunate bride at her home reception. Fortu- 
nately this fashion is no longer in vogue, and, 
in fact, is very generally condemned. The 
bride's mother may sometimes intercept her 
newly married daughter in the aisle on the way 



284 THE 



from the altar, and the two may embrace, for 
dnrely the kiss of a mother to a child who has 
just taken upon herself the tremendous respon- 
sibility, which the mother knows so weU, may be 
regarded as the natural expression of a mother's 
heart. This exception should by no means be 
used as a precedent for the general hugging — 
nay, mobbing — of the bride, which characterizes 
weddings where this unpleasant liberty is per- 
mitted. 

MUSIC 

A marriage festivity would scarcely be com- 
plete without music of some sort. This feature, 
like everything else, will depend on the scope 
of the reception or breakfast ; but when the re- 
ception is l^ld in a private house it is well to 
remember that a few instruments with the 
piano, partially hidden in some inconspicuous 
place, will serve every purpose. The volume 
of sound should not be such as to make ordi- 
nary conversation difficult, and in the close con- 
fines of the average household reception rooms 
this is very apt to be the case. Much that has 
been written on the subject of ' * Music ' ' in the 
chapter on ** Balls ** will be found to apply to 
weddings. A very good combination is the 
harp, violin, and flute; or harp, violin, and 
'cello, strengthened, if necessary, by the addi- 
tion of the flute. In the majority of places, how- 



WEDDINGS 285 

. . ' ■ - — — — — — 

ever, a harp is not to be obtained, but the piano, 
in any case, will be far more useful. 

BEFBESHMENTS 

This subject will be found more extensively 
treated under the heading of Wedding Break- 
fasts, Luncheons, etc. But it will be well in 
passing to point out that an amply supplied 
table, artistically decorated, is a very important 
feature of every wedding reception. Cham- 
pagne is almost invariably served. After a 
little while the bride and groom will have per- 
sonally met most of their guests and will then 
go to the dining-room, whereupon the best man 
will propose their health, the guests standing, 
glasses in hand. The central personages of the 
function are then pledged to long life and hap- 
piness, after which they may retire to make the 
necessary preparations for their journey. 

THE DEPABTUBE 

Custom has always assigned the maid of 
honor, and sometimes the first bridesmaid, to 
the task of assisting in preparation of the bride 
for her journey. Sometimes all the brides- 
maids share, but of late this is omitted, and the 
bride has been left to the care of her own maid 
or near relatives, the bridesmaids watching for 
her reappearance. 



286 THE 



Placed upon a little table in the hall will be 
found a number of tiny white boxes containing 
slices of wedding-cake, which guests leaving the 
house are expected to take with them, unless a 
man- or maid-servant has been specially de- 
tailed for the work of distribution. The bride- 
groom will also change his clothes and, together 
with the bridesmaids, relatives, and friends, 
stands at the foot of the staircase to await his 
bride. Her appearance is the occasion for an- 
other general welcome. The ceremony of the 
bridal bouquet may now take place. The brides- 
maids with outstretched hands try to catch the 
bouquet which the bride throws towards them, 
for, according to the traditional legend, the 
maid who is successful will surely be the next 
bride. The custom of throwing rice after a de- 
parting couple is gradually being abandoned in 
favor of the far more beautiful practice of 
showering the bride with loose flowers. The 
rice custom is a Chinese idea, symbolical of 
good wishes for health and prosperity, but the 
vulgar abuse, which was often attended with 
injurious and always with unpleasant results, 
has brought it into disrepute. Similarly a 
white slipper, significant of luck, is usually 
thrown after the pair ; but this also had led to 
extremes. 



WEDDINGS 287 

HONEYMOON 

In onr conntry it is greatly becoming the 
practice among the * * Smart Set * ' to follow the 
English practice and spend the honeymoon at 
a friend's conntry honse. Bnt with the vast 
majority of American families, the country 
house is the town house as well, so that it would 
scarcely be possible to take possession of a 
friend's house for honeymoon purposes under 
such circumstances. The more fortunate, so 
far as the possession of this world's goods is 
concerned, will make a trip to Europe; still 
others, if the season of the year is suitable, to 
the many magnificently interesting localities in 
their own country. 

The length of time spent on the honeymoon 
will naturally be dependent on circumstances, 
and may be anything from a week to a month, 
staying at some nearby place in the mountains 
or at the seaside. As a matter of fact, the place 
and duration of a honeymoon cannot be dic- 
tated either by custom or fashion, and if the 
young people content themselves with enjoying 
that which they can comfortably afford, they 
will be doing the correct thing. 



288 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

THE HOUBB WEDDING 

Although lacking the stately dignity and 
ecclesiastical environment of a chnrch wedding, 
with its ordered ritual and impressive vest- 
ments, the house wedding has a charm which is 
entirely its own, a charm wherein modesty and 
simplicity find their loftiest expression in an 
ideal and touching ceremony performed in the 
midst of surroundings which have been a part 
of the bride's girl life. 

If the ceremony takes place in the country 
the reception may be converted into a very 
charming outdoor affair or lawn party, while 
in the city a generous use of flowers will make 
the most ordinary household belongings bright 
and cheery. The one great drawback to a 
house wedding is the economy of space which 
becomes necessary. The bridegroom, best man, 
and clergyman can very easily share the one 
room which must be put at their disposal, and 
there should be another for the bride and her 
attendants. The usual order of the ceremony 
is to hold the wedding in the drawing-room or 
reception room, from which every inconvenient 
article of furniture has been removed, and in 
which sometimes a temporary altar is erected, 
although this more often than not is omitted, 
on the score of its theatrical effect. The guests 



17EDDINGS 289 

are then assembled, care being taken to see that 
a right of way is maintained so that the bridal 
party may enter and advance toward the cler- 
gyman without being crowded. A plan usually 
adopted is for two ushers to measure off an 
aisle with strong white ribbon. The clergyman 
takes his position in an open place facing 
the company, the bridegroom and best man 
standing at his left awaiting the bride. The 
bridal procession will enter from the farthest 
part of the room, preceded by the ushers, after 
whom follow the bridesmaids, the maid of 
honor, and, last of all, the bride, with her 
father or nearest male relative. 

At the majority of house weddings, however, 
there are neither bridesmaids nor maids of 
honor, some one intimate friend acting as at- 
tendant. After the ceremony has been per- 
formed the clergyman congratulates the newly 
married pair and surrenders his place to the 
young couple, who face the assembly to receive 
the congratulations of their parents, relatives, 
and friends, who in turn wish them all happi- 
ness. 

In brief, all the details of ceremony which 
have been described for the church wedding, 
may be adopted more or less easily, according 
to circumstances, for a house wedding. 



290 THE M 



AN OUT-OF-DOOBS WEDDING 

Not unfrequently there occurs an ** open- 
air ' * weddingy when the ceremony is performed 
in some favorite nook under the trees. Usually^ 
this only happens when the bride's home is in 
the country, and the grounds attached to the 
house are sufficiently ample to give a broad, 
natural background. Much can be said in its 
favor, for certainly there can be no crowding 
or vitiated atmosphere, and the natural sur- 
roundings of trees and flowers, ^' Nature's vest- 
ments in God's cathedral," make the best dec- 
orations possible. The wedding breakfast, or 
other refreshments, could be served upon little 
tables scattered about the lawn, and the mu- 
sicians placed on an improvised platform, or in 
a marquee, would be sufficiently in evidence to 
brighten the affair. 

Dancing rarely occurs except at an evening 
wedding, and not always even then. It is cor- 
rect etiquette for the bride to lead the dancing, 
having the groom's best man for her partner, 
the groom following with the maid of honor. 
Sometimes it is preferred to have the bride and 
groom open the ball. 



WEDIXNGS 29) 



A SECOND MABBIAQE 

Ordinarily, the wedding of a widow-bride 
should be much quieter and far less elaborate 
than was her first wedding — ^but here again it 
is possible to conceive of exceptions. She must 
not wear a white gown, veil, and orange blos- 
soms, but instead don a visiting costume. She 
is not attended by bridesmaids, although she 
may have a maid or matron of honor. In the 
case of a second marriage, one of the most deli- 
cate problems is the question of invitations. It 
is to be presumed, however, that the lady in the 
case will have definite views as to who ought to 
be there; but with regard to her past husband's 
family, unless they are avowedly antagonistic 
to her second marriage, she should be careful to 
give them places of honor at the ceremony. 

DECORATIONS 

Pahns and flowers, easily hired for the occa< 
sion, together with flowering plants, if the; are 
tastefully disposed, will be found far more ef- 
fective and certainly far more economical than 
cut flowers. The decorative inventiveness of 
the average girl will easily suggest a scheme of 
decorations that will best suit the room in which 
the ceremony is to be held, if it is to be a house 
wedding. If it is to be a church wedding, the 



292 THE 



decorating of the chancel, altar, altar-rail, choir 
stalls, and possibly the pews of the families 
inunediately concerned, might be made to con- 
stitute a very pleasant evening's enjoyment on 
the part of tiie bride and groom's yonng 
friends; although ordinarily the task is com- 
mitted to a florist hired for the occasion. House 
decorations should be marked by great sim- 
plicity, for it should be remembered that the 
bride is the central ornament, and to have the 
flower-scheme obtruding itself on every one's 
attention is to mar the eflFect of the whole. 
Where space permits, a part of the room is set 
aside to represent a miniature chapel, or else 
a bow window is turned into a bower. Floral 
wedding bells or other set pieces are no longer 
employed. It has already been stated that the 
tendency in * * churchy ' ' house decoration is to 
the theatrical, but with the exercise of a little 
conmion sense and the application of good taste 
this can be avoided. 

THE BEHEABSAL 

Next in importance to the wedding ceremony 
is the rehearsal. The more elaborate the func- 
tion the more necessary will be the drill for it- 
Of course most of this work can be gone over 
at home, but whenever possible the church 
should be secured for one final rehearsal 



inSDEONGS 293 

Many priests will not permit snch a use of their 
churchy but the majority of the sectarian bodies 
are far more liberal. In any case, a little skil- 
ful diplomacy will find the way to a com- 
promise with the most obdurate clergyman. 
One of the main reasons for a church rehearsal 
is that frequently the bridal party will include 
individuals who are not acquainted with the 
ritual and ceremony of the church in which the 
wedding is to take place, and for such a re- 
hearsal is an absolute necessity. The church 
rehearsal, however, should not be made the 
occasion of a little spree. High spirits are very 
natural on such an occasion, but they should 
not find vent in the sacred edifice. Even though 
the building be a tumble-down bam, if it has 
been dedicated to the service of God it is His 
house, and the place ** Wherein His Honor 
dwelleth." After the rehearsal, and at the 
bride's house, refreshments and a generally 
good time will be in order. 

THE PRIVILEOES OF A VBXDB 

I 

Time was, when our country was very young, 
and the local communities very small, that a 
wedding was the affair of the whole district. \ 

It levelled what few distinctions were known in 
those days, and converted the homeliest of 
maidens into the most beautiful of brides, the ' 



294 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

interest of the community only reaching its 
climax on the first Sunday after the wedding- 
day, when the young bride blushingly took her 
place among the matrons, who henceforth were 
to be her friends and neighbors. Not the least 
of the privileges was the right to choose the 
minister's text on that occasion, although this 
right was not always insisted upon. In the 
case of Miss Abby Smith, however, the bride 
availed herself of her right to the great undoing 
of her pastor. Miss Abby was the frolic-loving 
bride of John Adams, and the consternation of 
the New England minister may be imagined 
when he read the text selected for his discourse 
by the statesman's bride: 

'' John came, neither eating nor drinking, 
and they say. He hath a devil ! ' ' 
• Enough of this old-time courtesy to the bride 
still remains with our modem society to give 
her a temporary social precedence, during 
which period she is the guest of honor where- 
ever she is invited, and at dinners, or wherever 
formal refreshments are served, she is taken in 
by her host. Naturally, a great deal depends 
on the size of the locality, for it would be ob- 
viously impossible, in cities where brides are 
practically an everyday occurrence, to give 
them much more than passing recognition. In 
smaller towns the reigning period of a bride 



nmxysNGS 295 

may be for any length of time up to three 
months. On the conclusion of the honeymoon 
the bride is expected to issue invitations for 
certain reception days to enable her friends to 
call and see her, and for which only the cup that 
cheers, etc!, will be necessary. Reciprocal cour- 
tesies are not demanded to the thousand and 
one little social attentions showered upon a 
young bride. 



BBmAL FBESENTS 

The bride-elect will almost invariably find 
herself the recipient of presents or wedding 
gifts of one thing or another, and she must be 
quick to acknowledge their receipt. Under 
none but the most compelling circumstances 
must she give this task to another. A grace- 
fully worded note of thanks sent personally is 
what is required, utterly regardless of the value 
of the gift or the social standing of the giver. 
Some such outline as follows might be used : 

40 Astor Place, 

May 27, 1904. 
Deab Mbs. Liebling : 

Please accept my warmest thanks for the 
handsome dishes that have just arrived. Be- 
lieve me, of oil my presents, none are more ad- 



296 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

mired or highly prized than yours. I hope and 
expect to see you on my wedding-day. 

Very sincerely yours, 

Maby Pbeston. 

Another form, the wording of which will in- 
dicate to the reader the circumstances for which 
it wotdd be used, is as follows : 

The Elms, 

September 20, 1905. 
Deab Mb. Moobe : 

Your exquisite little gift has arrived, and 1 
cannot tell you how delighted I am at the evi- 
dence of remembrance from one so far away. 
Also, please accept my sincere thanks for your 
good wishes for my future. 

Again thanking you, believe me to be yours, 

Veba. E. Lovett. 

A practice which in many instances is far 
more useful than any gift of silver plate is for 
the near relatives of the young couple to send 
their present in the form of a check. This, of 
course, more especially refers to the father of 
the bride or bridegroom, but it might with 
equally good taste be true of any other near 
relative. For any one else to send a check 
would be intolerably bad form, always except- 
ing circumstances regarding which only the 



WEDDINGS »7 

young couple themselves are competent to 
decide. So far as displaying the wedding-gifts 
is concerned, custom differs. In the country 
they are more often than not on exhibition on 
the day of the wedding and during the recep- 
tion, for the simple reason that there is usually 
no opportunity for showing them before the 
wedding. The gifts are displayed in a room 
set apart for that purpose, every article being 
distinguished by the card of its donor. If it 
is a town wedding, the gifts will be on view 
some afternoon two or three days before the 
wedding. Usually the mother of the bride 
sends out brief invitations on her visiting cards, 
asking in the friends and relatives and espe- 
cially those who have sent the presents. Occa- 
sionally the donor's cards are turned face down 
by the side of the gift, and the number only of 
the gift is displayed, in which case there will 
quite naturally not be any further exhibition. 
Superstitious brides do not like to receive pres- 
ents marked with their future name or initials, 
as this is regarded as a very unlucky omen. 

THE BBIDEOBOOM 

Most of the duties and privileges of the bride- 
groom have been already related, but it remains 
to be added that the genuinely considerate 
bridegroom will make every allowance for the 



298 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

preoccupation of his bride-to-be during the 
busy days that precede the marriage. On the 
wedding-day he must deny himself the pleasure 
of seeing her until he meets her at the altar, or 
before the officiating clergyman. If the wed- 
ding is at twelve o^clock, the best plan will be 
for him to breakfast with his best man and 
drive with him to the church, or, if the hour is 
liater in the afternoon, they could take luncheon 
together. He will make sure that the grooms- 
man has the ring and fee, and that every pos- 
sible detail has been attended to. If it is a 
house wedding the two men will arrive at the 
house at least fifteen minutes in advance of the 
ceremony, and go at once to the room set apart 
for them. After the bride has gone to her 
room to change her dress, the groom hastens 
to exchange his wedding garments for his trav- 
elling suit. Just a word of parting advice. 
The sensible, well-poised man will not permit 
himself to be carried away by the excitement of 
the occasion, but will insist that, so far as he is 
concerned at least, there shall not be any dis- 
play of extravagance or elaborateness of ex- 
pense that would be inconsistent with his finan- 
cial or social status, or that would be burden- 
some to him to maintain. 



WEDDINGS 299 

THE WEDDING BREAKFAST 

The wedding breakfast is not usually under- 
taken except by people of large means and 
ample house accommodations. If it is given at 
ally the list of invited guests will be closely 
limited to the relatives and particular friends 
of the two families. Music will be supplied. 

Men-servants in evening livery will look after 
the wants of the guests. A special table, elab- 
orately decorated and served, will be set apart 
for the bridal party, but, with this sole excep- 
tion, all the tables are open to whoever claims 
them. The affair is informal to the extent that 
no order of precedence is observed in the matter 
of location or service. The bridal party does 
not enter the breakfast room until all the 
guests are assembled, after which the procession 
to the feast is formed, the bridal couple lead- 
ing, followed by the ushers and maids of honor, 
the bride's father with the groom's mother, or 
nearest female relative, and finally, the guests 
in general. The hostess, of necessity, will be 
last, for it is her duty to see that no woman is 
without an escort. The breakfast differs from 
the dinner in the matter of escorting the lady, 
seeing that she does not take the arm of her 
escort. When the bride cuts the cake, the 
guests at the bridal table are served first, al- 



aOO THE MODERN HOSTESS 

though this is rarely done at a breakfast, the 
little bozes already described and served in the 
hall answering the necessary purpose. When 
a wedding takes place before two o'clock, 
luncheon follows as a matter of course. After 
that hour it would be followed by a reception 
tea. 

THE WEDDING LUNCHEON 

is usually a sitting-down affair. During the 
summer months a cold luncheon is invariably 
given, the dishes, etc., being handed by servants. 
Chicken and lobster in mayonnaise and aspic; 
oysters in various ways; salads of all kinds — 
fish, fowl, and fruit; tongue and choice ham; 
sandwiches and hot rolls; creams, jellies, ices, 
elaborate confectionery, and wedding cake. 

Champagne or iced cup is supposed to go 
with any of the before-mentioned dainties bet- 
ter than chocolate or coffee, and thus the guests 
usually commence with champagne and con- 
clude with coffee later on. If possible, it will 
be far nicer to set apart another room for the 
chocolate and coffee, ices, etc.; otherwise they 
would be served at a separate table in the 
luncheon room. 



I 

1 



CORRESPONDENCE 

The keynote of successful letter-writing is 
sincerity, and in this age of hurry one may al- 
most say that the second greatest virtue in a 
correspondent is brevity. At the same time a 
certain amount of punctiliousness is called for 
in our communications to strangers, nor should 
the barriers of a proper reserve and dignity be 
altogether forgotten in the offhand letters one 
writes daily to familiar friends. 

There is an etiquette of correspondence just 
as inflexible as is the etiquette of the dinner 
table or of any social function. To betray a 
lack of knowledge of what is correct in this par- 
ticular is to conmiit the unpardonable sin and 
to invite social ostracism. As in all things 
else, changes are continually occurring in re- 
gard to the styles of stationery used, methods 
of expression, and general style of composi- 
tion. Letters written half a century ago have 
a stiffness and formality which would seem en- 
tirely out of place in the present age. The 
more naturally one expresses one's self the 
more attractive epistolary correspondence is 
apt to prove. An easy and graceful style in 

30) 



302 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

writing is sometimes instinctive, but more often 
is the result of careful and elaborate practice. 

The sins of commission being more important 
than the sins of omission in this direction, at- 
tention should be directed to the following im- 
proprieties often committed by the careless or 
illiterate writer. 

Do not use slang. Omit foreign words and 
phrases — they savor of affectation. ** Don't *' 
and ^' reckoned " are not considered elegant 
English. *' Got '* is without the pale. Culti- 
vate your best style of penmanship, as it is no 
longer considered aristocratic to scrawl. See 
that your stationery is both neat and clean. Be 
careful not to mix up ** who '* and ** whom.'' 
This is an error so common with correspond- 
ents that reference to it seems to be indispen- 
sable. ** Who " is the nominative, and 
* * whom ' ' the objective form. * * To whom 
have you sent the money! " — ^not ** Who have 
you sent the money to T " ' ' Who do men say 
that I amf " is correct, because the nominativei 
is used after the verb ** to be." Never use the 
*' and " sign in a letter, but always write the 
word out. Never close the letter with * * Yours, 
etc." It is bad form. Be courteous in writing 
as you would in speech. Attempt no rhetorical 
display in a simple letter; reserve it for your 
essays. To write * * very truly " or ' * very sin- 



CX)RR£SPOND£NCB 303 

cerely ' ' without the addition of * * yours ' ' sug- 
gests a lack of good breeding as well as defec- 
tive education. The ** yours ** should come 
last. 

Stationery. — It is quite customary nowadays 
to be particular about one's stationery, and, on 
the part of many, to make it as characteristic 
as possible of the owner. Where the crest or 
monogram is not used, the street, club, or 
country-place address is printed either in Ger- 
man or old English text, or in a simple and 
clear type conspicuous only for its neatness. 
Many of the most particular persons adhere 
rigidly to plain white paper, usually preferring 
the Belfast linen, than which scarcely anything 
can be found more conformable to the rules of 
good taste. Where colors are used they should 
in all cases be of the *' invisible *' or subdued 
tints, under which conditions certain shades of 
gray, blue, and lavender, even salmon, are per- 
missible. Anything glaring in the way of color 
should be strictly tabooed. The pure, unwoven 
linen paper, resembling parchment, is much in 
favor. French papers of light weight and over- 
land mail are used for foreign letters. 

The Use of Family Crests is daily becoming 
more popular in this country. Monograms 
also are used to a certain extent. There is no 
excuse for a vulgar display of either crest or 



304 THE BiODERN HOSTESS 

monogram. If one or the other be used, it 
should be small and of inconspicnons color. 

Women as a rule are apt to run to more ex- 
travagance in their stationery than men, but 
they should guard themselves carefully against 
bizarre effects, which only afford ground for 
criticism from persons of taste. 

Tor the country house or club there is often, 
in addition to the engraved name and initials, 
the address of the nearest post office, express 
office, and telephone station. It is also cus- 
tomary to have the writing paper for private 
yachts and important camps stamped with a 
design illustrative of the quarters occupied. 
Sometimes a pretty motto, with the name of the 
boat or camp, is substituted. 

It should be superfluous to have to state that 
a gentleman will not use his business stationery 
for social correspondence. Members of clubs 
usually find a supply of stationery at their dis- 
posal which it is correct to use for answering 
social letters. Letter paper should never be 
ruled, and should be of a size to fold once into 
the envelope. Occasionally the monogram, 
crest, or address is printed on the flap of the 
envelope, and there is no objection to this from 
the point of good taste. 

The Stationery used by Persons in Mourning 
is no longer regulated by an elaborate system 



CORRESPONDENCE 305 

of different depths of border, a medium depth 
matching that on the cards nsed by widow, 
orphan, or other bereaved blood relative being 
considered correct form. This black-edged 
paper is used as long as mourning is worn. 
The same rule applies to the stationery of a 
widower as to that of a widow, or any close 
relative. Addresses, monograms, or crests on 
mourning stationery are necessarily printed or 
embossed in black. 

The Use of Postal Cards for purposes of 
social communication is not by any means sig- 
nificant of good taste, except when used for the 
most impersonal purposes. Postal cards may 
be utilized for the announcements of meetings 
of committees and societies, or the terse con- 
veyance of some trivial intimation, but to make 
them the vehicle for the expression of private 
affairs is inexcusable. Whenever used, the cus- 
tomary * * My Dear ' ' is omitted and the initials 
merely used as a signature, or the initials of 
first names, with surname in full. 

It was formerly fashionable to fise the Third 
Person in all formal correspondence with 
tradesmen, servants, and with persons who 
were strangers. It was also used where espe-^ 
cial stiffness was desired between equals, to em^ 
phasize some animosity prevailing between the 
correspondents. The custom has become al- 



306 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

most obsolete now among persons of refine- 
menty and only antiquated individuals attempt 
such starchy commencements as ^ ^ Mrs. Jordan 
Jones presents her compliments and begs to 
ask/' etc. 

The new style is altogether more pleasing 
and amiable. Mrs. Jordan Jones, in address- 
ing an equal either in regard to club matters, 
servant's references, or whatever it may be, 
commences with the much more natural ^ ^ Dear 
Madam. ' ' In addressing a tradesman whom she 
regularly patronizes, Mrs. Jones commences 
** My Dear Mr. Colfax,'* her third-person form 
being used only in cases of strange tradesmen 
or firms, in addressing whom she may correctly 
say, ** Mrs. Jordan Jones presents her compli- 
ments, and begs to enquire if the carriage or- 
dered by her is ready for shipment I ' ' 

To Commence a Note or Letter according to 
the American form, if one wishes to be rather 
formal, it is customary to start with * * My Dear 
Mr. Jardine," but where one is more intimate 
^* Dear Mr. Jardine " would be substituted. 
The * * My ' ' should be dropped by the lady first 
when the correspondence is between members 
of the opposite sexes. ** Dear Miss Pierre- 
pont ' ' may then with perfect propriety be sub- 
stituted for ** My Dear Miss Pierrepbnt." In 
no case will a man of breeding commence a let- 



OORRESPONDENCB 307 

ter ** Dear Miss/' and where the acquaintance 
is of a formal character, * * Madam "or * * Dear 
Madam " is the recognized form of greeting. 
The Conclusion of a Letter is a matter upon 
which one should be precise and accurate. 
Favorite forms for ending friendly communi- 
cations are : * * Believe me, sincerely yours, ' ' 
** Believe me, faithfully yours, '* and ** Believe 
me, cordially yours, '* In conclusion one may 
also say : * * I remain, dear Mrs. Huntley, with 
kind regards. '* Between intimates, ** Affec- 
tionately yours,'* ** Devotedly yours," and 

* * Fondly yours ' ' are customary phrasings, the 

* * Yours truly "or * * Very truly yours ' ' being 
used for more formal correspondence. 

It is incorrect to use initials, surnames, or 
given names only, and diminutives are inex- 
cusable as signatures for notes or letters. The 
correct signature for a married woman is * * Jo- 
sephine Black," not '* Mrs. Josephine Black," 
to letters of a social character. When it is 
necessary to convey to a correspondent the in- 
formation that the writer is married, it is ac- 
complished by writing *' [Mrs. Josephine 
Black] " underneath the regular signature, in 
brackets. 

Unmarried Women, who sign their names in 
full, as ** Helen Gray," when desiring to inti- 
mate that they are maids and not widows, may 



306 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

precede the name with the word ^^ Miss " in 
brackets. 

When writing on a matter of business to a 
woman with whom his acquaintance is slight, a 
man will conclude, ^^ I am, my dear madam, 
your obedient servant/' A less stilted ending 
is ** Respectfully yours,'* or ** Truly yours.*' 
The letter of condolence generally concludes 
with ** I beg to remain yours to command." 

Addressing the Envelope is a matter of some 
discrimination. (Gentlemen are addressed ^ ^ Jo- 
siah Thompson, Esq.," a tradesman's name 
being preceded by the more unpretentious 
** Mr.," while a servant would be addressed as 
plain ** Jonathan James." *' Miss " or ** Mrs." 
invariably precedes the name of a woman. It is 
very bad form to address a woman as '^ Mrs. 
Captain So-and-So," ** Mrs. Judge Burton," 
or *' Mrs. Doctor Sayers." It is not customary 
for an American woman to assume her hus- 
band's honorary title. A female practising 
physician is addressed ^^ Dr. Emily Harrison "; 
social communications are inscribed ^' Miss 
Emily Harrison " or ** Mrs. Emily Harrison." 
A servant's letter is addressed ** Mary Bren- 
nan " or ** John Thompson." 

Simplicity is a growing feature of social cor- 
respondence, the heavy, formal models of a 
generation ago having become obsolete. 



CORRESPONDENCE 309 

An invitation to a social gathering must de- 
fine the nature of the event, the time, and the 
place. Such invitations are usually written in 
the third person, but this has a rather stiff 
effect, and if the persons to meet are intimates 
and the gathering small and informal, the in- 
vitation may take the form of a familiar letter 
or even be given verbally. 

TO ADDRESS PERSONS OF DI8TINCTI0K 

In addressing the President of the United 
States, an official letter should commence 
** Sir,'* and conclude ** I have the honor to 
remain your most obedient servant. ' ' A social 
letter to the Chief Executive commences ** My 
Dear Mr. President," and concludes ^' I have 
the honor to remain most respectfully yours.*' 
The envelope should be addressed ^' His Ex- 
cellency, President Theodore Roosevelt.'* 

To address the Vice-President, an official let- 
ter should begin ** Sir," or ** Dear Sir," con- 
cluding ' ' I have. Sir, the honor to remain your 
most obedient servant." Or a social letter, 
** My Dear Mr. C," with conclusion as to the 
President. The address may be preceded by 
** His Excellency," following which comes 
'' The Vice-President, R. J. Davis." 

An official letter to a Justice of the Supreme 
Court is couched in the same phraseology as 



310 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

one to the Vice-President, and a social letter 
commences ^' Dear Mr. Justice Hanlon," con- 
cluding ** Believe me truly (or sincerely) 
yours." The envelope is addressed ** Mr. 
Justice C. H. Hanlon.'' 

A Senator is officially addressed in the same 
manner as the Vice-President, a social letter to 
the same commencing ^* My Dear Senator 
Jones," and ending as one to a justice. The 
envelope should be inscribed '* Senator John 
Jones," or ** To the Honorable John Jones." 

A Member of the House of Representatives 
is similarly addressed. Social communications 
should commence ** My Dear Mr. Johnson," 
ending as to a justice, the envelope being in- 
scribed ^^ Honorable James Johnson." 

An official communication to a Member of the 
Cabinet has a similar commencement and con- 
clusion as one to a vice-president, the beginning 
and ending of a social letter duplicating one to 
a member of the House. The envelope should 
be inscribed ^' Honorable Bandolph P. Max- 
well, Secretary of the Treasury." 

The term ** Honorable " is prefixed to the 
address of judges, mayors, senators, repre- 
sentatives, and others distinguished in public 
life, even after their terms of office have ex- 
pired. 

All Army Officers above the grade of Lieu- 



OORRESPONDEMCB 311 

tenant should be addressed by their specific 
title and rank. To illustrate: 

General Henry C. Corbin, 
Adjutant-General, 

United States Army. 

** Sir '* is an official form of address, ** My 
Dear General/' following the title, for an in- 
formal note or one of intimacy. Titles should 
never be abbreviated, as, for instance, ** My 
Dear Gtenl.,'* for Assistant Adjutant-General. 

The address should always indicate when 
officers are in command, as, ** To Major-Gen- 
eral Henry A. Corbin, Commanding Officer,'* 
or, * * Commanding the Army of the U. S., ' ' or, 

V 

** Commander-in-Chief, Army of the United 
States, Washington, D. C' 

A custom has been established by the War 
Office by which the office is addressed instead 
of the individual : * * To the General in command 
of the Army of the United States,** etc. 

Army officers holding geographical depart- 
ments are addressed ' ' The Commanding Officer 
26th U. S. Infantry '' — ^not ** Colonel command- 
ing 26th U. S. Infantry.'* This would be the 
army form with name omitted: ** Asst. Adju- 
tant-General, 3rd Brigade, 2nd Division^ 
Tampa, Florida.** 



312 THE MODERN HOSTESS 

A similar rule prevails with any officer in 
command — ^a major, colonel, captain, or lieu- 
tenant. Non-commissioned officers in the vol- 
unteer army retain their titles even when no 
longer under military discipline. 

The Ride in the Navy is that all grades of 
rank under that of commander are addressed 
by the title of the grade, or by the simple term 
'' Mr.,'* with the initials '' U. S. N.'^ after the 
surname. 

Clerical Titles vary slightly according to the 
form of church government, and also with the 
order of degree. 

The following are the forms of address and 
salutation for each of the leading churches : 

Archbishop (Anglican): *^ My Lord,*' or 
*' My Lord Archbishop. ' ' ** May it please 
Your Grace.'* ** To His Grace the Lord Arch- 
bishop. * ' 

Archbishop (Roman Catholic) : ** Most Rev- 
erend and Respected Sir,'* or ** Most Reverend 
and Dear Sir." ** To the Most Reverend Arch- 
bishop C!hatteris, Archbishop of Ely." 

A Bishop (Protestant or Roman Catholic) : 
'' Right Reverend and Dear Sir." '' To the 
Right Reverend Bishop of Ely." 

The word ** Venerable " is placed before the 
name of an Archdeacon : * * The Venerable 
Baldwin Grey, Archdeacon of Sudbury." 



^ 



/ 



I 




^ 



[l/ 



m 



BOOK V 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 

CARVING 

BEVERAGES 

MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

TOASTS 

INDEX 



^ t. 




June Tea Punch 




Vegetarian Coffee 




Individual Breakfast Service 



Consolibatcb Xibvar^ of 

flDobetn Cookino 
anb 1F3ou8ebol6 IRccipes 



CHRISTINE TERHUNE HERRICK 

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

Author of "The Little Dinner," " The Chafing-Dish Supper," etc. 
and associate author with 

MARION HARLAND 

of the National Cook 
Book 



AND 



A LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS WHICH INCLUDES MANY OF 

THE FAMOUS CHEFS AND COOKING EXPERTS 

OF THE UNITED STATES 



VOL. V. 



1R, 3. Bo^mer Company 

1907 



Copyright, 1904 
By R. T. BODMER 



MA3E (T 

THE WERNER COMPAMV 

MUtON, OHIO 



CONTENTS 

FADE 

Chafing-dish Recipes 1 

Nuts and Their Uses 13 

Carving .18 

Beverages 29 

Mixing and Serving Drinks 51 

Story op the Wines 

Origin and History 126 

Modern Wines 131 

Analysis of Wines 132 

Wines of France 133 

Discovery of Ch.\3ipagne 134 

Production of Champagne . . . .134 

Bordeaux Wines 142 

Claret .... .... 142 

Sauternes 144 

Wines of Germany 146 

Rhine Wine 146 

Wines of Hungary 149 

Wines of Portugal 150 

Port Wine 150 

Madeira Wine 152 

Wines of Spain 153 

Sherry 153 

Wines of Italy 158 

Wines of America 159 

Modern Wines of Greece . . . .161 

Liqueurs and Bitters 172 

V 



vi CONTENTS 



PAGE 

Toasts and Speechmaking 175 

Menu Terms in Foreign Languages . . . 207 
Names of Meats, Fruits, and Vegetables in Va- 
rious Languages 208 

Terms Used in Cooking 211 

Index 231 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 

Poached Eggs with Anchovy or Caviare 

Poached eggs are prepared in the regular 
way, and will be found very adaptable to the 
chafing-dish. Serve on toast. The toast may 
first be spread with anchovy or caviare, mak- 
ing the dish more of a delicacy. 

Deerfoot Farm Sausages and Bacon 

Put brazier on; when the metal shows a blue 
heat, put in the sausages and bacon. When 
done on one side turn to the other. These form 
a very good and substantial combination with 
scrambled eggs. Remove part of the fat and 
add the eggs, no butter being necessary. Bacon 
and sausages folded into an omelet is another 
means for serving them. 

Preparation 

For nearly all chafing-dish recipes it must be 
taken into account that at most two chafing- 
dishes are used; therefore, to facilitate matters, 
all preparations possible must be made in ad- 
vance. Any meats, fish, etc., that have to be 
prepared before to have ready for the final 



CHAHNG-DISH RECIPES 



chafing-dish composition, boil during the day, 
and have them cold, ready for heating and for 
final use. For meat, etc., that is desired to 
brown quickly, remove the under water-pan. 

Veal Kidney Saut6 

Take a veal kidney, remove tissue, etc., split. 
Marinade in olive-oil; skewer through the kid- 
ney cross-ways, with steel skewers procured for 
that purpose. Have a tablespoonful of butter 
very hot in the brazier. Put in kidney, and 
brown. Have a tablespoonful of minced onion ; 
add to the kidney ; brown in the butter ; it gives 
a light delicate flavor to the kidneys. Cover, 
and cook for ten minutes. Put on platter. Let 
butter get a rich brown, and pour over the kid- 
neys. Serve on toast. 

Venetian Eggs 

Slice 1 small onion, fry in butter in the chaf- 
ing-dish; add 1 can tomatoes; season with 1 
teaspoonful each of salt, pepper, and 1 table- 
spoonful butter. Cook for ten minutes. 

Break 6 eggs into a dish and drop into chaf- 
ing-dish. Take large fork and instead of stir- 
ring raise the contents repeatedly from the 
bottom up, so as not to break the yolks. 

Just before serving, add 2 tablespoonfuls of 
grated or Parmesan cheese. Serve on hot 
crackers or toast. 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 



Tripe a la Creole 

Prepare tripe as for calf's brains, only boil 
until tender. Cut up into small pieces. Pre- 
pare Creole method, as for omelet a la Creole. 
To the mixture add the tripe, using 1 cupful of 
tomatoes instead of 1 tomato, and 1 teaspoonful 
of beef extract. 

Tripe ^ la Poulette 

Prepare tripe, then proceed as for creamed 
chicken; adding to either the chicken or the 
tripe a dozen small button mushrooms. "Will 
be found a palatable addition. 

Sweetbread Saut6 

Prepare sweetbreads. Put 1 tablespoonful 
butter into chafing-dish; let it get brown color. 
Dip the sweetbread into beaten egg, then bread 
crumbs, and brown in hot butter; when brown, 
cover, and simmer for ten minutes. Serve with 
slice of lemon and chopped parsley. 

Clams ^ la Newburg 

Prepare as for Oysters a la Newburg. 

Calf's Brain with Scrambled Egg 

Blanch calf's brain, by first washing in ice 
water ; then put into boiling water to which have 
been added a few whole peppers, V^ bay leaf, 1 
spoonful of vinegar. Boil for five minutes ; re- 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 



move ; set on ice to cool, remove tissue, and beat 
up, forming a creamy batter. 

Put in the chafing-dish 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter; heat. Beat up 4 eggs, add i/o cupful of 
brains. When butter is hot add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of cream to the egg mixture, and scramble 

6 eggs. 

Sweetbreads a la Creme 

Procure 2 large firm sweetbreads; soak in 

cold water for two hours, keeping the water 

cold by changing several times. Then put in 

chafing-dish, cover with cold water, bring to a 

boil ; boil ten minutes. Remove and again put 

in cold water; dry, and remove all fibre and 

tissue. Cut into dice, and proceed as for 

creamed cicken. 

Crab-Meat with Green Peppers 

Have ready flaked crab-meat ; be sure that it 
is well cleared of cellular tissue. Put into chaf- 
ing-dish 1 tablespoonf ul of butter ; heat and put 
in the crab-meat. Season with salt, pepper, 
paprika ; slice in thin rings of sweet green pep- 
per ; cover, and allow to simmer for a few min- 
utes. Add Y2 pint or cupful of rich cream. 
Cook for ten minutes, and serve on toast. 

Little Pigs in Blankets 

Season a few large oysters with salt and pep- 
per. Wrap each in thin slice of best bacon and 



CHAHNG-DKH RECIPES 



fasten with wooden toothpick. Have chafing- 
dish very hot, and cook pigs just enough to 
crisp bacon. Serve on toast or platter, gar- 
nishing with parsley. 

Oyster Rarebit 

Clean and remove the hard muscle from l^ 
pint oysters ; put 1 tablespoonf ul butter and i/^ 
pound cheese into the chafing-dish; mix 1 salt- 
spoonful each of salt, mustard, and a dash of 
cayenne pepper. While this mixture is melting, 
beat 2 eggs, and add to the oyster liquor. Mix 
this gradually with the melted cheese, then add 
the oysters, and serve at once on hot toast. 

Lobster a la Newburg 

Take pint measure of diced boiled lobster, put 
into brazier or chafing-dish. Add seasoning of 
salt, 1 teaspoonful; cayenne pepper, a dash; 2 
tablespoonf uls butter, or the same of minced 
truffles. Stir together ; add wineglassful of ma- 
deira, or sherry wine; stir, and cook eight min- 
utes. To 2 well-beaten yolks add i/o cupful of 
cream ; add to the lobster meat, stirring all well 
together, but do not let it boil. Serve on toast 
with little French finger rolls. 

Oysters ix la Newburg 

Put into the chafing-dish 1 quart strained 
oysters; simmer for a few minutes until the 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 



edges curl up. Season with cayenne, 1 salt- 
spoonful salt, and a little celery salt. Add the 
sherry or madeira, and proceed as for lobster 
a la Newburg. 

Broiled Oysters 
Take large oysters; dry on napkin; dip in 
olive-oil; then in bread crumbs. Put 1 table- 
spoonful of butter into chafing-dish. Have very 
hot, and put in the oysters ; fry a golden brown ; 
serve with slice of lemon, and decorate with 
parsley. Serve on toast. 

Creamed Codfish 

Flake cold boiled codfish, or soak for six 
hours salted or prepared codfish. Put 1 table- 
spoonful of butter into a chafing-dish; when 
hot stir in 1 tablespoonful of flour. Stir to a 
paste; add gradually l^ cupful of milk and 1 
cupful of cream. Bring to a boil ; then add the 
cod or other cold fish. If salt fish is used, omit 
salt in the seasoning; use pepper and paprika, 
serve on toast. 

Creamed Lobster 

Is prepared in the same way as creamed 
chicken, omitting celery and green pepper, 
which are usually treated as two distinct 
methods of serving chicken. This is a very 
pleasing dish, and is not so rich as lobster a la 
Newburg. 



CHARNG-DISH RECIPES 



Terrapin 

Mince or dice 1 terrapin. Season with salt, 
pepper, cayenne. Put into chafing-dish 3 table- 
spoonfuls butter ; when hot, add the minced ter- 
rapin ; cover with 1 cupful of the stock from the 
boiling of the terrapin. Bring to a boil ; add 1 
minced truffle, a few minced mushrooms. Stir 
all together ; reduce the stock about two-thirds ; 
add 1 wineglassful of sherry or madeira. Dis- 
solve 1 teaspoonful of arrowroot in 1 cupful rich 
cream ; season with nutmeg, and pour over the 
terrapin; bring to a boil. Serve in individual 
copper saucepan, with French finger bowls or 
in deep plate. 

Omelet 

Beat separately 4 eggs. Season yolks with 
salt, pepper, cayenne; add 2 tablespoonfuls of 
milk or cream ; add whites. Have lump of but- 
ter size of walnut in the chafing-dish. Let it 
get a light brown ; pour in the eggs ; as soon as 
eggs begin to set at bottom, run knife along the 
edge (an artist's palette knife will be found to be 
useful on all such occasions). If it does not ad- 
here to the bottom, and there is sufficient butter 
there to keep it from doing so, cover so that the 
omelet will cook through. When cooked, fold 
over and slip out on palette, or serve right in 
the chafing-dish. 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 



French Omelet 

Into a bowl put 4 eggs, season with salt. Into 
chafing-dish put 1 tablespoonful of butter; 
when heated, pour into chafing-dish the well- 
beaten eggs. Take spoon or fork and draw 
from the edge of the dish to the centre, which 
will give the layer-like composition noticed in 
French omelets. Instead of folding in half, fold 
each edge to the centre ; then fold again, or be- 
gin at the edge and roll up, making first fold 
about an inch and a half. Have parsley garni- 
ture for plain omelet, or mince parsley and 
sprinkle the omelet before folding. 

Spanish Omelet 

Put butter in chafing-dish. Have ready 1 
tablespoonful each of chopped onions, green 
pepper, mushrooms, pickles, and 1 tomato, or 
% cupful canned tomatoes. Season with salt, 
pepper, paprika, 14 teaspoonful " kitchen bou- 
quet," and % teaspoonful beef extract, or 
add 1 tablespoonful of cooked minced ham or 
bacon. Stir all together; allow to steam while 
preparing the omelet, stirring occasionally to 
see that it does not burn. Prepare omelet as in 
previous recipe. "WTien all is ready remove the 
mixture from the chafing-dish into covered 
vegetable dish. Put 1 tablespoonful of butter 
into the chafing-dish; cook the omelet; before 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 



folding over add the filling; fold over, and 
serve. 

Cheese Omelet 

Sprinkle omelet with grated Parmesan 
cheese and fold over. 

Nut Omelets 

Have whatever filling desired ready. If nuts 
are used, stew them first in a little water; adu 
2 tablespoonfuls of cream, season with salt, and 
use for filling. 

Sweet Omelets 

Spread omelet with jam, jelly, honey, or 
crushed fresh fruit or berries; adding to these 
omelets, in place of pepper or other additions, 
sugar. 

Rum Omelet 

Prepare French omelet without parsley; roll 
together before removing from the chafing- 
dish ; pour over a wineglassful of Jamaica rum. 
Sprinkle omelet plentifully with powdered 
sugar. Take a long-handled mixing-spoon, fill 
with rum, and set fire to it. By dipping it into 
the remaining liquor the whole will become ig- 
nited. Baste the omelet as long as the rum 
burns. Keep the omelet well covered with 
powdered sugar. 



JO CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 

Scrambled Eggs 
Put in the brazier 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Beat in a bowl 6 eggs; season with salt and 
pepper (white and cayenne). For each egg al- 
low 1 tablespoonful of milk, or milk and cream 
mixed; have all stirred well together. As soon 
as butter begins to turn a light brown, intro- 
duce the eggs; stir in one direction with large 
silver soup spoon as soon as the eggs begin to 
set. A combination of ham may be added by 
having minced ham ready and adding it first 
to the butter and cooking it a few minutes, then 
pouring over the eggs. Serve on toast. 

Welsh Rarebit 

The recipe given for Welsh rarebit, to be 
found under heading of *' Cheese Dishes," will 
be found to be adaptable to a chafing-dish, and 
these are tried and true recipes. 

Creamed Toast 

Prepare buttered toast and trim the edges. 

Put butter into chafing-dish; add 1 pint rich 
cream, put in as many olives as the dish will 
hold; when saturated, take up carefully, put 
into covered tureen, and put in more toast, al- 
lowing one piece for each person, and a few 
extra pieces, when all the toast is prepared. 
Add another pint of cream ; bring to a boil and 
pour over the toast in the tureen. Serve in deep 



CHAFING-DISH REQPES JJ 

dishes. Use soup ladle for dishing up toast. 
Mix together % cupful granulated sugar with 
14 tablespoonful powdered cinnamon, and serve 
with any milk dishes; to be used according to 
the individual taste, by sprinkling over the toast 
creamed rice, etc. 

Creamed Chicken 

Have ready cold chicken. Dice, season with 
salt, pepper. Celery stalks, cut very thin cross- 
ways, are an excellent addition. Put 1 table- 
spoonful butter into chafing-dish; let it become 
hot. Put in the chicken ; stir for a few minutes 
until all becomes heated; pour in 1 cupful of 
cream; or if cream is not available, use rich 
milk. Cover and stew for fifteen minutes, stir- 
ring occasionally. If milk is used, dilute 1 
tablespoonful flour with cold milk, and stir in 
the beaten yolk of an egg ; add last to give rich- 
ness. Serve on toast. Sweet green pepper 
shredded in with the chicken is a dish to delight 
the epicure. 

Broiled Chicken 

For broiling chicken or other foods, remove 
the under section that contains the water. Put 
butter into the brazier. Have very small young 
chicken split; wii)e, singe, and dry; rub in with 
salad-oil, and sprinkle with salt. Have butter 
> in brazier very hot, and only enough to prevent 



J2 CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 

the meat from burning; brown quickly. When 
well browned on both sides, add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, and turn chicken in the brazier so 
that the meat is toward the bottom of the dish. 
Put pieces of butter in hollows made thus ; hav- 
ing the chicken inverted put on cover of chafing- 
dish and baste occasionally with the melted but- 
ter from the bottom of the dish. About twenty 
to thirty minutes should be sufficient to cook 
through thoroughly. Serve with Saratoga 
chips, which can be obtained freshly prepared 
at many shops. Serve with toast. 

Creamed Mushrooms 

Put into chafing-dish i/^ cupful of butter. 
When hot put in 1 jDOund or quart of button 
mushrooms, or other mushrooms that have been 
washed and peeled. Simmer the mushrooms 
until tender; then add, stirring in carefully, 1 
pint rich cream; season with salt, pepper, and 
paprika. Eeduce the cream somewhat by sim- 
mering five or ten minutes longer. Serve on 
toast. 

Finnan Haddie 

Get a nice, firm, fresh-looking finnan haddie. 
Cut a good steak out of the centre of the fisk, 
about five inches square. This should be suffi- 
cient for three people. Have water boiling in 
the brazier and put the fish into it. Boil for 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 13 



ten minutes ; drain, put into covered disii. Put 
into the chafing-dish i/o cupful of butter; add 
1/2 teaspoonful pepper, a little paprika, and the 
juice of y-2 lemon. Simmer for a few minutes 
until butter is hot; and pour into gravy bowl, 
and serve on the side. 

NUTS AND THEIR USES 

In recent years the uses of the nut have be- 
come many. Formerly nuts were sei*ved with 
the raisins as a second dessert, and invariably 
placed on the table with the demi-tasse of black 
coffee. 

As the next development in the way of table 
service came the salted nut-meats, put on as a 
side-dish the same as olives, etc. 

The latest development is the use of nuts for 
all manner of concoctions by themselves or 
mixed with other ingredients. 

From the days of early Plymouth, people in 
this country have been addicted to cakes and 
candies. Therefore we will turn to the later 
addition of nuts to the culinary achievements. 
Scientific analysis of the nut shows that it is 
most valuable as a food. It builds up muscle, 
and does not fatten. 

People suffering from indigestion, and other 
stomach troubles, get relief and nourishment by 
eating certain of the nuts, salted. 



J4 CHAITNG-DISH RECIPES 

Throughout the recipes will be found combi- 
nations with nut-meat. The following are a few 
of the every-day nuts thus utilized: almonds, 
beechnuts, Brazilian, butternuts, chestnuts, co- 
coanuts, filbert or hazel, hickory, English wal- 
nuts, black walnuts, the litchi or Chinese nut, 
peanuts, pine nuts, pistachio nuts. 

These nuts are so well known that it will be 
unnecessary to give a description of them, so 
I will proceed to the making of 

Nut Butter 

Shell the nuts, using only the nut-meat. 
Purchase a stone mortar and pestle, such as are 
used by the apothecary. (They will be found to 
answer for many other purposes.) Pound and 
grind the nuts with the pestle until they have 
become a cream. If of too thick a consistency, 
add a little water; then put into corked glass 
jars. In summer nut-butter is apt to become 
rancid, so I would not advise the making of too 
large quantities. The Brazil nuts are fre- 
quently added in part to the other nuts, being 
made into butter so as to enhance the flavor. 
Almond, Brazil, pecans, walnuts, and peanuts 
make the best 'butter. 

When using almonds always remove the 
brown skin by steeping in hot water for a few 
minutes, then rub off with a coarse towel. 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 15 

Salted Nuts 
Have ready the nut-meat, sprinkle over with 
very fine salt. Put in baking-pan in the oven, 
and keep shaking the pan, so that the nuts will 
all become slightly crisp and brown. 

Sugared Nuts 

Use powdered sugar instead of salt. 

Marron Glac6 

The imported product is best, although the 
native chestnut can be used, but is so much 
smaller. 

Parboil the chestnuts; shell, and put into 
boiling lightly salted water until tender, but 
not too soft, as they will fall in pieces. Make a 
syrup of 1 pound of sugar and V2 piiit water, 
stirring with wooden spoon. Drain and care- 
fully dry the nuts, then put into the syrup. 
When it comes to a boil, simmer until the nuts 
take on a dark brown color and seem trans- 
parent. Put into jars and cover with the syrup, 
or put on glazed paper. These will keep for 
some time. 

Cocoanut 

The cocoanut is used as an ingredient, and 
used in the grated state. 

Chestnuts 

The preparation of chestnuts will be found 
under the head of Vegetables. 



J6 CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 

Glazed Nuts 

Use copper kettle and make a syrup of 1 
pound of granulated sugar and l^ cupful of 
water. Boil, while stirring, until it will harden 
when dropped into cold water. Remove from 
the fire, being careful to keep the syrup amber- 
colored. Use candy-dipper ; dip each nut in the 
syrup; take out, using a spoon in conjunction 
with the dipper, and put on glazed paper or 
marble slab. Flavor the syrup, if desired, after 
removing from fire with the juice of 1/2 a lemon 
or less. Fruit is glazed in the same way. 

Nut Croquettes or Cutlets 

A Vegetarian Dish 

Mix together 1 cupful each of chopped nut- 
meat and bread crumbs; season with salt and 
pepper and a little lemon juice. Mix in 1 egg 
so as to make it hold together; form into cro- 
quettes or cutlets; dip in beaten egg, then in 
bread crumbs, and fry in hot fat. Drain, and 
serve with tomato or cream sauce, and if made 
into cutlets use a crab-claw, or wooden skewer, 
and cover with the regulation paper ruflQe. 

Nut Souffle 

Take 1 pint of the milk of the cocoanut, or use 
cow's milk, and put on to boil ; add 1 cupful of 
bread crumbs ; stir, and when thoroughly heated, 



CHAFING-DISH RECIPES 17 

add 1 cupful of chopped nut-meat. Season with 
salt and pepper; add I/2 cupful of whipped 
cream and the lightly beaten whites of 3 eggs. 
Butter a baking-dish ; pour in the mixture, and 
bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. Serve 
immediately, as, in case of all souffles, it will 
fall if allowed to stand. 

Nuts are served with salad, mixed with force- 
meat, used in sauces, and made into sandwiches; 
and will be found under such recipes. 



CAEVTNG 

One of the first steps in learning to carve is 
to know the parts of the joint or fowl upon 
which one intends to operate. No one can carve 
well without practice and experience. In these 
days, when it is the custom to have meat and 
poultry carved before coming to the table, there 
is less opportunity than ever for one to learn. 
Good carving is really an accomplishment. It 
is unreasonable to expect a young person who 
sits at the table where the head of the family 
does all of the carving, to become proficient in 
the art from mere observation. How often the 
excuse that " I never had to do it, father al- 
ways carved " is heard. And nothing is more 
pitiable than to see such a one suddenly called 
upon to officiate on some occasion. The oppor- 
tunity to carve ought not only to be accorded to 
each member of the family, but the work should 
be insisted upon. 

One must get by study of some sort an idea of 
the location of the bones, gristle, and joints in 
meat and poultry. One who prepares a fowl, 
or who cuts up chicken for fricassee, should be 
able to mentally locate every bone and joint. 

)8 



CARVING 19 

A sharp knife, a platter sufficiently large, a 
carving napkin, and a tender joint or bird will 
help much toward successful execution. No- 
where do ease and grace become so enviable as 
in carving a difficult joint or a refractory fowl. 
There must be no spilling of crumbs or splash- 
ing of gravy. Aim to divide the meat equally. 
Ask each guest his or her preference, and 
gratify it. Be not lavish in helping the guests. 
Estimate carefully the number, and make the 
dish go round easily. Do not give one all of the 
meat, and another all of the bone. See that a 
young or bashful person is provided with por- 
tions that are easy to manage. How often we 
have seen such unable to eat what is served on 
account of the difficulty in cutting it up. Not 
only should the piece be carved economically, 
but the remnant should be left in good shape. 
As the slices are carved, place them upon the 
platter and do not allow them to hang over the 
edge to drip upon the cloth. 

Learn to carve sitting as well as standing; 
both positions are allowed. If the cook has not 
removed all of the skewers or strings before the 
dish was brought in, do this first. 

The fork is the essential in good carving, 
after the sharji knife. Use the fork to hold the 
meat firmly. Hold the fork firmly but grace- 
fully. If the joint or bird is tough, do not show 



20 CARVING 

that you know it. Just there is where your 
skill will be most deeply appreciated by the 
hostess. 

If there are two sorts of meat, carve first 
what you think will be sufficient from both ; then, 
and not till then, ask the guests their choice. 

AVhile it has been suggested that one observe 
how others carve, it is hardly necessary to 
dwell upon the rudeness of staring at the 
carver. ^ - " ^ 

If the carver is having a hard -time of it, the 
tactful hostess will distract the attention of the 
guests from his efforts. 

Rib Roast 

Have the backbone to the right, and place the 
fork firmly in the middle. Eun the knife along 
close to the backbone, cutting down to the ribs. 
Then cut away the gristly cord so as to enable 
you to slice. Begin on the side nearest to you, 
and see that the slices cut parallel to the ribs 
are thin and of equal thickness. After slicing 
them down to the ribs, separate them from the 
bone by running the knife under. If the meat 
has all of the bone removed, and is rolled and 
skewered, place it on the dish on the end, and 
cut thin slices from the top horizontally. It 
may be easier to place it upon the side and 
carve thin slices from the end nearest to you. 



'~ \>"^ 




" 


t 












1 


CT 


I 




■ 




1 


^9 


li 








■ 


Lfl^^Hr 




S 


[^ni|>7v' WfV* ^^1 


Jj^^"^^tvjP 


1 


Mftif^^i 


i;^- 


>^ 






i 


22^^^'-'^^—''* 




•^ 


■H 


BBI^^^^ 


^^* 



Sirloin Roast 




Rolled Roast 



CARVING 21 

Sirloin Roast 

Place the backbone to the right. Several thin 
and uniform slices are cut parallel to the ribs, 
and to them. Separate them from the back- 
bone by cutting along it, and also at the end of 
the flank. Then turn the roast over and carve 
the tenderloin, cutting it in slices across the 
grain. If the roast is larger than needed, the 
tenderloin may be left and served cold at an- 
other meal. For those who like fat, a few slices 
of the crisp fat from the flank-end may be 
served. Not everyone cares for this fat, so 
their preference must be consulted before serv- 
ing it. 

Beefsteak 

Do not serve the bone if it is cooked with the 
steak. Many cut out the bone before cooking, 
and claim that it is better and more economical 
to do so. Tough gristle and membrane, as well 
as the flank, should also be cut oif before cook- 
ing. These can be cooked with great saving in 
some other ways. The tenderloin should be 
placed next to the carver. Each person should 
receive a part of the tenderloin ; this is accom- 
plished by cutting it in narrow strips, after 
it has been removed by cutting close to the 
bone. The meat on the other side of the bone 
is removed in the same way, and is also cut 
into narrow strips. Serve each person a piece 



22 CARVING 

of the tenderloin, the fat, and the upper part. 
The strips should be as wide as the steak is 
thick. Do not serve too liberally the first time. 
Leave enough for a second helping to those who 
may desire more. 

Round and rump steaks -a^ cut in narrow 
strips always across the grain. This makes it^ 
easy for the guests to cut them with the g^rain 
with their usually less sharp knives. 

Corned Beef 

Corned beef is cut in thin slices. Lay aside 
the outside slice, as it is often dry and hard. If 
the piece of beef is narrow, the slices will ap- 
pear wider if they are cut obliquely. They 
should be quite thin, and cut across the grain. 
Serve each person a piece of fat and a piece of 
lean. 

Leg of Mutton 

Carve thin slices across the middle, cutting 
quite down to the bone. Cut the slices toward 
the thick part of the leg, making them of me- 
dium thickness; then separate them from the 
bone. Slice from the opposite side of the bone 
in the same way. 

Tongue 

Cut tongue in round slices crossways of the 
tongue. Some carvers slice the tip of the tongue 
lengthwise, as that part is considered more deli- 




Loin of Mutton 



m 


1 


^H 


■ 


^^^^B 


l^m 


pi^^HHBHHHHHHHBHi 




■/" ^ .. ^.^ « .^ _^»^ ^ .«. — ... 


■■ ^^^^^M 




^M^_ 




■^^^H 


I^HH 


WM 





Leg of Mutton 




Shoulder of Mutton 



CARVING 23 

cate when so cut. The best slices are in the 
middle. Serve one of these choice parts to each 
guest along with the other parts. Do not carve 
the root of the tongue. The slices must be as 
thin and wafer-like as possible. 

Ham 

This may be carved in the same way as mut- 
ton^ except that the slices are very thin. 

Fore-Quarter of Lamb 

First separate the shoulder-part from the 
breast and ribs. Then the ribs are separated 
from one another. The platter must be large 
enough to accommodate this division. If it 
is not, another platter should be so placed 
that the carver may place the breast portion 
upon it until he is ready for it. The difficult 
part is the separation of the shoulder-joint. 
The carver's work will be much simplified by 
having the butcher remove the shoulder-blade 
and the bone of the leg. Each person should 
receive a rib, and either a piece of the breast or 
of the leg, according to preference. 

Loin of Veal 

The ribs are first to be divided, beginning at 
the smaller end. Carve the kidney in slices, and 
serve a portion of it to each guest, as far as 
possible. Of course, the butcher has been di- 
rected to divide the meat at the joints of the 



24 CARVING 

backbone. This makes carving a very simple 
matter. But if this has not been done, the 
carver must cut slices parallel to the backbone. 

Fillet of Veal 

Slice from the top downward, serving stuffing 

to each. 

Breast of Veal 

This divides, naturally and very distinctly, 
into the brisket and the ribs. The line of sepa- 
ration is very marked. It is first cut along that 
line. The brisket, which has been placed near- 
est to the carver, is sliced. Then the ribs are 
divided, and the sweetbread is sliced. Serve 
a portion of the rib, the brisket, an^^ the sweet- 
bread to each person. 

Haunch of Venison 

The haunch is the hind-quarter. The loin is 
placed nearest to the carver. The first step is 
to separate the loin from the leg. This is quite 
difficult, if the bones have not been removed. 
The leg is carved in the same way as a leg of 
mutton, cutting slices from the middle, quite 
down to the bone. The loin is then carved by 
separating the ribs and slicing the flank. 

Saddle of Mutton 

This is sliced on both sides of the backbone, 
beginning at the tail, which is placed to the left 
of the carver. The fork is finnly placed in the 




Chicken or Turkey 




Goose or Duck 




Jellied Chicken 



CARVING 25 

centre of the back, and the slices are cut very 
long. If the slices are too long to be served, 
they should be cut in two crosswise. The ten- 
derloin and the kidney fat under the ribs are 
choice parts. These are to be sliced, and a por- 
tion served to each person. 

Sucking Pig 

If the head has not been separated in the 
kitchen, which is a safe thing to do, as it is re- 
pulsive to a great many people, it is the first 
step in the carving to remove it. The legs are 
then separated by a circular sweep of the knife. 
Finally the ribs are separated. Serve a small 
portion of stuffing to each guest. The head is 
placed to the left when the platter is brought on. 

Turkey or Chicken 

Tlie dish is to be placed so that the breast is 
to the left of the carver. Place the carving 
fork deeply at the small end of the breastbone. 
This is important so as to completely control the 
work of the knife. The leg upon the far side 
is first removed by cutting around the joint, 
and then twisting the bone from the socket with 
the knife. Do not remove the fork to accom- 
plish this. Remove the wing on the same side 
in the same way. By slightly tipping the bird 
away from him, the carver can easily reach the 
leg and wing on the side nearest to him, and re- 



26 CARVING 

move tliem in the same manner. Thin slices are 
then cut from the sides of the breast. Then the 
wishbone is removed by making an incision in 
the breast. Then cut through the ribs from 
neck to tail, so as to pass in a straight line 
through the leg socket. Do this on both sides ; 
then quickly turn the knife, and so separate the 
front from the back of the carcass along the 
lines of the last cuts. Now, for the first time 
withdraw the fork, and divide the thigh from 
the drumstick. The last step is to divide the 
back at the joint of the second rib. Serve to 
each person a piece of dark and a piece of light 
meat, unless a preference for one sort is ex- 
pressed. If the turkey is large, and the family 
small, carve only one side of it. Serve stuffing 
to each guest. 

Duck and Goose 

These are carved alike. Place the bird with 
the breast to the left of the carver. Remove the 
leg and the wing from the remote side. Then 
remove each from the near side. Cut slices 
from the sides of the breast. This is much 
more difficult to do in the case of ducks and 
geese, than with turkey or chicken. Four fine 
cuts are all that a skilful carver may hope to 
get. Make an incision to give free access to 
the stuffing. Only the breast of wild duck is 




Fillet Cooked and Larded 




Saddle of Mutton 



CARVING 27 

carved. The remainder of the fowl is left to be 
served next day as a timbale or a salmi. 

Broiled Chicke^i 

As this is split down the back before broil- 
ing, the carver simply cuts through the breast- 
bone to divide the chicken into halves. Then 
each of these halves is divided crosswise, 
making quarters. 

Boned Chicken 

Fix the fork firmly into the breast portion, 
and cut slices crosswise, beginning at the neck. 

Woodcock, Snip^, and Plover 

These require no carving, as a whole bird is 
served to each guest. 

Pheasant, Quail, and Partridge 

Split into halves lengthwise, and serve one 
part to each guest. 

Rabbits and Hares 

When cooked whole, the fork is placed in the 
middle of the back. Remove the hind leg and 
the shoulder first from the remote side; then, 
tilting the rabbit, remove those from the near 
side. Cut the back into three pieces. Remove 
the fork, and separate the hind leg into two 
parts at the joint. The best portions of the 
rabbit are the saddle and the thigh parts of the 



28 CARVING 

hind leg. If the hare is a Belgian, it is large 
enough to permit of the saddle being cut 
lengthwise into two parts. 

Fish 

A silver knife and fork are provided for serv- 
ing fish, as steel spoils the flavor of the flesh. 
If the fish is boiled or baked, first remove the 
head. Then cut down the backbone as nearly 
as possible, gently prying the flesh away from 
it. Cut the top half into slices across the body ; 
then turn the backbone off the lower half, placing 
it on one side of the platter. Then cut the under 
half in slices across the fish. Bj^ separating the 
flesh from the backbone by a lengthwise cut, 
there is less danger either of ser^'ing so many 
bones or of mashing the flesh. 

Planked or Broiled Fish 

In this case the fish is to be cut crosswise, 
quite through the joints of the backbone. This 
must be performed as quickly as possible, as 
delay causes much of the good flavor to be lost. 
Care must be taken to strike the joints as ex- 
actly as possible, and not to break the flesh. 




Pheasant 




R-s: ?:£ 




Fish 



BEVERAGES 

Breakfast Coffee 

Put freshly ground coffee into the strainer in 
the proportion of 1 cupful to a quart of boiling 
water. Add the boiling water gradually. Pour 
off into a hot pitcher and back as^ain to the 
strainer, repeating until of the desired strength. 
Then pour into hot cups. 

Caf6 au Lait 

Make some strong, clear coffee. Pour it into 
the cup with an equal quantity of boiling milk, 
and sweeten according to taste. This is the 
coffee which is served in France for breakfast, 
and it is both palatable and nutritious. 

After-Dinner or Black Coffee 

This is the coffee which is handed round in 
small cups after dessert in France. It is 
sweetened, but neither milk nor cream is added. 
It should be made exceedingly strong, and will 
be found useful in warding off the somnolency 
which is often the first result of a good dinner. 
It should be made in the same way as breakfast 
coffee, allowing a tablespoonful finely ground 

29 



30 BEVERAGES 

coffee for each cup. Serve in demi-tasse or 
small coffee-cups. 

Iced Coffee 

Set cafe an lait aside until cool. Then pour 
into tumblers half-filled with ice, and sugar to 
taste. 

Arabian Coffee 

All travellers agree in their account of the 
delicacy and delicious flavor of the coffee used 
in the East. It is prepared thus : Pound thor- 
oughly in a mortar some coffee-berries that 
have been freshly and quickly roasted. Pass 
them through a fine sieve two or three times, 
until at last you have a brown flour. Mix 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of this flour and a small piece of cin- 
namon with 2 cupfuls of water. Boil it gently, 
then draw it back for a moment, and repeat 
this several times, until a cream rises to the 
top ; then add half a cupful more boiling water 
and it is ready to serve. Neither sugar nor 
milk is required. 

Vegetarian Coffee 

1 teaspoonful each of whole allspice, cinna- 
mon, cloves, crushed nutmeg, blade mace, quar- 
ter of bay leaf; steep in 1 quart of water half 
an hour; strain in hot pot, adding 1 Imnp of 
sugar for each guest. A pitcher of hot cream 
is at hand for the hostess to dress the ' ' coffee ' ' 



BEVERAGES 3J 

before the latter is passed. Rose-disks are 
dropped into the beverage. 

Tea (Hot) 

Have the kettle freshly boiling, so that the 
water may not taste flat. Pour the water on 
the dry leaves and draw off within three min- 
utes, otherwise it will taste sharp and strong. 
Pour, clear, into hot cups, adding afterwards 
sugar and cream as desired. 

Tea (Cold) 

A few minutes after pouring on the leaves 

strain off the liquid, and set away till cold. 

Pour later into glasses half-filled with cracked 

ice, adding slice of lemon and granulated sugar 

to taste. 

Tchai (Russian) 

Black Japan tea is brewed in a brass or cop- 
per samovar, poured into beautifully decorated 
cups, and served at the end of the meal. It 
must be very strong, and several cups of tea 
are consumed by the native Russian. Cream 
is not used, but lumps of sugar are rubbed on 
lemon, dipped in the tea, and nibbled as a 

sweet. 

Russian Tea 

Brew tea according to direction, and have 

the strength according to taste. Pour into 

long thin glasses; put a silver spoon first into 



32 BEVERAGES 

the glass to prevent it breaking; put in slices 
of lemon, and pour over the lump of sugar 
about a tablespoonful of best rum — or put in 
tea and sweeten. No milk or cream. 

June Tea Punch 

Brew a strong tea; place in fancy pot; fill 
thin glasses with shaved ice ; use a teaspoonful 
powdered sugar, 2 maraschino cherries, with 
slice of lime on top ; pour hot tea over the whole 
and serve each glass on a lace-paper doily, 
placed on dainty china plates. This is a sooth- 
ing outdoor refreshment for a hot afternoon. 

Cocoa 

Made in the same way as chocolate. 

Cocoa Shells 

Stir into a quart of boiling water 2 ounces 
of cocoa shells previously wet with cold water. 
Boil steadily for an hour and a half; then 
strain, stir in 1 quart of fresh milk, and serve 
almost at the scalding point. Sweeten to suit 
taste. 

Chocolate 

With cold water rub 6 tablespoonfuls of choc- 
olate to a thin, smooth paste; upon this pour 
gradually 2 cupfuls of hot water; put in a 
saucepan and bring quickly to a boil. After 
cooking for five minutes add 2 cupfuls of hot 



BEVERAGES 33 

milk, and boil for another ten minutes. 

Sweeten to taste, and add whipped cream on 

top. 

Hot Beef Tea 

Break an egg, and beat it well in the bottom 
of a cup ; add a portion of sherry and 1 spoon- 
ful of beef tea. Fill with boiling water, stir 
briskly, and season to the taste. 

Milk Shake 

Take 1 teaspoonful of powdered sugar and 
1 egg ; add ice, and fill shaker with milk. Turn 
over, shake thoroughly, and serve with straws 
and nutmeg on the side. 

Milk and Seltzer 

Fill a large soda-glass with half milk and 

half seltzer. 

Koumiss 

In 1 gill of warmed milk dissolve V3 of a 
yeast cake, and add 2 teaspoonfuls of granu- 
lated sugar. Have a beer bottle with patent 
fastener already scalded — or use an ordinary 
bottle, soaking the cork for half an hour to 
make it swell. Fill this bottle three-quarters 
full with fresh milk, blood-warm; then })our in 
the yeast mixture. After shaking briskly for 
two minutes cork tightly. The common cork 
must be wired down. Leave the bottle in the 
warm kitchen until the contents commence to 



34 BEVERAGES 

foam and '* work " six hours or so. Then 
place in the ice chest until used. 

Bottled Seidlitz Water 

Take a sufficient number of soda-water 
bottles, and fill them with clear water ; then add 
the following ingredients, and cork and wire 
the bottles immediately : 2 drachms of Kochelle 
salts, 35 grains of bicarbonate of soda, and 11 
drops of sulphuric acid. 

Root Beer 

For good, old-fashioned root beer gather to- 
gether sarsaparilla, dandelion, yellow dock, 
hops, and burdock, if possible; other ingredi- 
ents often added are wild cherry bark, birch 
bark, elecampane, and aromatic spikenard. 

After washing thoroughly and bruising the 
roots, take 2 gallons of water to 1 ounce each 
of the ingredients. Putting the roots in the 
cold water, set over the fire so that all the es- 
sences and flavors will be drawn out by the 
heating. Steep for an hour and a half and then 
strain; add 1 pound of sugar and 25 drops of 
oil of sassafras or spruce, and when cool 
enough, so as not to kill the yeast, add 6 or 8 
tablespoonfuls to the above quantity of water, 
or 1 or 2 dry yeast cakes dissolved in a little 
tepid water. 

After stirring the yeast in well, set the brew 



BEVERAGES 35 

away in an earthen jar and allow some hours 
for it to work. After three or four hours it 
may be put in bottles, or kept in a jar for im- 
mediate use. 

Cider 

For a large quantity of cider, fine, juicy 
apples must be mashed and pressed, and a 
small Ehine-wiue cask filled with the juice. 
Place the cask on a skid in a cool room, and 
fermentation will soon commence, taking about 
a fortnight to the process; all stuffs coming to 
the surface during this period should be re- 
moved with a piece of clear linen. After fer- 
mentation is over, fill the cask with water, bung 
carefully, and leave in the cellar for six months ; 
then decant into another cask; leave for two 
months longer, and fill into bottles. 

Small quantities of cider may be made with 
less trouble. Peel the apples, and grate on a 
grater; strain the juice through cloth, pour 
into stone jars, and add roasted apples to 
hasten fermentation. After a couple of days 
a skin appearing on the juice shows that fer- 
mentation is complete; remove this skin, bottle 
the cider, and keep in a cool place. 

Limeade 

Put in a large glass the juice of 3 limes and 
1 tablespoonful of sugar. Fill half full of 



36 BEVERAGES 

shaved ice, and then fill with water ; shake thor- 
oughly and ornament with fruit. Serve with 
straw. 

Orangeade 
Make a syrup by boiling 6 ounces of loaf 
sugar in half a pint of water until the sugar is 
dissolved. Pour it over the thin yellow rinds 
of 2 small oranges, and let them infuse for two 
or three hours. Strain the juice of 6 oranges 
into a glass jug. Add the flavored syrup, first 
passing it through a jelly-bag, and a pint and 
a half of cold water. Drink the orangeade 
cold. A glassful of calf 's-foot stock is an im- 
provement. Time, two or three hours to infuse 
the rinds. Suflicient for two pints and a half. 

Orangeade (at All Seasons) 

Pour a pint of brandy, or rectified spirits of 
wine, over the thin rind and strained juice of 
2 oranges. Cover the infusion closely, and 
leave in a warm place for six weeks, shaking it 
every day. At the end of that time filter it 
through muslin, and put it into small bottles. 
Cork these closely, and store them until wanted. 
When orangeade is required, it is only neces- 
sary to dissolve a small lump of sugar in half 
a pint of spring water, and add a dessertspoon- 
ful of the orange-flavored spirit. Sufficient for 
a pint of orangeade. 



BEVERAGES 37 

Pineapple Water (a Refreshing Summer 

Beverage) 

Take a moderate-sized pineapple; pare and 
slice it, and pound it to a pulp in a mortar. Put 
this into a bowl with the strained juice of a 
large fresh lemon, and pour over it a pint of 
boiling syrup made in the proportion of 1 
pound of sugar to a pint of water. Cover the 
jug which contains the liquid, and leave it in 
a cool place for two hours or more. Strain 
through a napkin, put 2 pints of cold spring 
water with it, and serve. Sufficient for three 
pints of pineapple water. 

Ginger Beer 

To 11 gallons of water put 10 pounds of 
loaf sugar, half a pound of bruised ginger, 
the rinds of 4 lemons, and the whites of 4 eggs 
beaten into a strong froth; mix them all well to- 
gether while cold, and put the preparation into 
a copper. As soon as it boils skim it well, and 
then pour it into a cooler, and put to it 2 ounces 
of cream of tartar and the inside of 6 lemons 
sliced and the ]ups taken out. AAHien it is 
nearly cold, put into a cloth 4 tablespoonfuls of 
yeast, and pour the liquor in upon it. When 
done working bung it up, and let it stand a fort- 
night; then bottle it off, and it will be fit for 
drinking in about ten days. 



38 BEVERAGES 

Ginger Beer (Other Ways) 

Take a pound and a half of common brown 
sugar, or treacle, a gallon and a lialf of water, 
an ounce of ground ginger, and a lemon, if liked. 
Boil, and then add yeast. 

2. Dissolve 4 ounces of candied ginger in 214 
gallons of boiling water ; add 2 pounds of sugar, 
1 ounce of powdered citric acid when nearly 
cold, and 2 tablespoonfuls of yeast. 

Saratoga Cooler 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar, juice of half a lemon, 1 bottle 
of ginger ale, and 2 small lumps of ice. After 
stirring well remove the ice. 

Plain Lemonade 

Put into a large bar-glass the juice of half 
a large lemon, li/^ tablespoonfuls of sugar, 2 
or 3 pieces of orange, and fill half full with 
shaved ice, the balance with water; add a dash 
of raspberry syrup and fruits in season. Serve 
with straws. 

Soda Lemonade 

Into a large soda-glass put 11/2 tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, juice of half a lemon, 
1 bottle of plain soda water, and 2 or 3 small 
lumps of ice. After stirring thoroughly re- 
move the ice. 



BEVERAGES 39 

Seltzer lemonade is made in the same way, 
only using seltzer for the soda water. 

Egg Lemonade 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 large tablespoon- 
fiil of pulverized white sugar, juice of half a 
lemon, 1 fresh egg, 2 or 3 small lumps of ice, 
and shake well. Then strain into a soda-water 
glass and fill with soda water or seltzer, gar- 
nishing with berries. 

Orgeat Lemonade 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar, i/o wineglassful of orgeat 
syrup, the juice of half a lemon, and fill one- 
third full of ice and balance with water. After 
shaking thoroughly, add berries in season, and 
serve with straws. 

Fine Lemonade for Parties 

Rub the rinds of 8 lemons on a portion of 
2 pounds of loaf sugar until all the oil is ab- 
sorbed, and put it with the remainder of the 
sugar into a jug; add the juice of 1 dozen 
lemons (not the pips), and pour over this 1 gal- 
lon of boiling water. After the sugar is dis- 
solved, strain through a piece of muslin, and 
cool. The lemonade may be greatly improved 
by beating up with it the whites of 4 eggs. This 
recipe allows for 1 gallon. 



40 BEVERAGES 

Soda Nectar 

Strain the juice of 1 lemon and add it to % 
tumblerful of water, sweetening with powdered 
sugar to taste. Stir in 2 or 3 small lumps of 
ice to cool, and mix well. Then add half small 
teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, pour into a 
large soda-glass, and drink while effervescing. 

Nectar for Dog-Days 

Put 1 lemon ice into a large goblet and pour 
upon it 1 bottle of plain soda. A very cool and 
refreshing beverage. 

Soda Cocktail 

Put into large soda-glass 1 teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar, 2 dashes of Angostura bitters, 
and 3 or 4 small lumps of ice. Then pour in 1 
bottle of plain soda, stir thoroughly, and re- 
move the ice. 

Horse's Neck 

Into a large tumbler put the entire peel of a 
lemon cut in circular style, plenty of ice, and a 
bottle of ginger ale. 

Orange Sherbet 

Peel half a dozen ripe, sweet oranges; cut 
4 of them in pieces, and separate from the 
white skin and seeds; squeeze the other two. 

Stir with % pound of sugar over a slow fire 
till it boils; then cool, thin with fresh water, 



BEVERAGES 41 

and add the pieces of orange, several drops of 
orange-flower essence, and lumps of ice. 

Blackberry Wine 

To make an excellent strong blackberry wine, 
proceed as follows : Take 45 quarts of ripe 
blackberries well picked and pressed, and mix 
them with 10 pounds of good honey and 26 
pounds of strong, bright, moist sugar. Boil 
with 12 gallons of soft water and the whites 
of 12 eggs well beaten, till the liquor is reduced 
to 10 gallons, skimming it till it is perfectly 
clear. Strain the liquor into a tub, and let it 
stand till the following day; then pour it clear 
of the lees and boil it again for three-quarters 
of an hour, adding the lees, filtered twice, and 
2 ounces of isinglass dissolved in a quart of 
water. Skim well, and put in 2 ounces of Ja- 
maica pepper, 2 ounces of cloves, and 2 ounces 
of best ginger, all bruised and tied loosely in a 
])iece of muslin. Put into your cooler the thin 
rinds of G Seville oranges and a pint of lemon 
juice; strain the liquor upon them, stir well, 
and when cool enough work it with a pint of 
fresh yeast stirred well into a gallon of the 
liquor. Cover close, and let it work for four 
or five days, removing the top scum and stir- 
ring twice daily; then strain, and filter it into 
the cask ; put in the bung tightly, keep the cask 



42 BEVERAGES 

well filled up, and when it has ceased ferment- 
ing, let a day elapse, and add 2 quarts of 
French brandy and an ounce and a half of isin- 
glass dissolved in a little water and mixed, with 
a gallon of the wine, ten minutes, an ounce of 
bitter almonds blanched and slit, and 6 ounces 
of sugar-candy broken small. Secure the bung, 
paste strong white ]3aper or coarse linen over 
it, and place plenty of sand over all, wetted a 
little. Keep the wine in a cool cellar for two 
years ; then bottle it — for it is certain to be fine 
— by means of the filterings, which are quite 
necessarj" to this as well as to all raspberry 
and elder wine. Seal the corks, and keep it in 
the bottles before using for two years. If al- 
lowed to lie for a longer time it will still im- 
prove, and will be found a beautiful wine. 

Currant Wine 

Bruise 8 gallons of currants with 1 quart of 
raspberries. Press out the juice, and to the 
residuum, after pressure, add 11 gallons of cold 
water. Add 2 pounds of beetroot sliced as thin 
as possible to give color, and let them infuse, 
with frequent mixture, for twelve hours; then 
press out the liquor as before, and add it to the 
juice. Next dissolve 20 pounds of raw sugar 
in the mixed liquor, and 3 ounces of red tartar 
in fine powder. In some hours the fermenta- 



BEVERAGES 43 

tion will commence, whicli is to be managed as 
in the case of gooseberry wine. When the fer- 
mentation is completely over, add 1 gallon of 
brandy; let the wine stand for a week, then 
rack off, and let it stand for two months. It 
may now be finally racked off, bunged up in the 
cask, and set by in a cool cellar for as many 
years as may be required to ameliorate it. 

Cowslip Wine 

Allow 3 pounds of loaf sugar, the rind of an 
orange and a lemon, and the strained juice of 
a lemon to every gallon of water. Boil the 
sugar and water together for half an hour. 
Skim it carefully, then pour it over the rind and 
juice. Let it stand until new-milk warm; add 
4 quarts of cowslip pi])s or flowers, and to every 
quarts of liquid put 3 large tablespoonfuls 
of fresh yeast, spread on toast. On the follow- 
ing day put the wine into a cask, which must 
be closely stopped. It will be fit to bottle or 
drink from the cask in seven weeks. Twenty- 
four or forty-eight hours to ferment; seven 
weeks to remain in the cask. 

May Wine 

Throw into a punch-bowl a bottle of hook; 
slice into that a lemon, an orange, or add a few 
strawberries, a glass of sherry, and sufficient 
crushed white sugar to sweeten. Now put in 



44 BEVERAGES 

12 little sprays of leaves of the sweet woodruff, 
and, if in bloom, some of the blossoms. Let 
them steep an hour, and serve out with a ladle. 
Sweet-scented flowers are often thrown in, and 
must float on the top ; and leaves of sweet herbs 
and of other fragrant plants, such as the lemon- 
plant and lavender, may be added. May wine 
may be iced. 

Elderberry Wine 
The elderberry is well suited to the produc- 
tion of wine. The juice contains a considerable 
quantity of the principle necessary for a \agor- 
ous fermentation, and its beautiful color im- 
parts a rich tint to the wine made from it. It 
is, however, deficient in sweetness, and sugar 
must be added to it. The following is an ap- 
proved recipe: Take 1 gallon of ripe elder- 
berries and 1 quart of damsons or sloes for 
every 2 gallons of wine to be made. Boil the 
elderberries in about half the quantity of water 
till they burst, breaking them frequently with a 
stick. Strain the liquor, and return it to the 
copper. To produce 18 gallons of wine, 20 gal- 
lons of this liquor are required, and for what- 
ever quantity the liquor falls short of this, 
water must be added to make it up. Boil this, 
along with 56 pounds of coarse, moist sugar, 
for half an hour, and it is to be fermented in 
the usual manner when sufiSciently cooled, and 



BEVERAGES 45 

then it is to be tunned or put into the cask. Put 
now into a muslin bag a pound and a half of 
ginger bruised, a pound of allspice, 2 ounces of 
cinnamon, and 4 or 6 ounces of hops; suspend 
the bag with the spice in the cask by a string 
not long enough to let it touch the bottom; let 
the liquor work in the cask for a fortnight, and 
fill up in the usual way. The wine will be fit 
to tap in two months, and is not improved by 
keeping, like many other wines. Elderberries 
alone may be used. 

Cura?oa 

Take a quarter of a pound of the thin rind of 
Seville oranges, and pour over it a pint of boil- 
ing water; when cool, add 2 quarts of brandy 
or rectified spirits of wine, and let it remain 
for ten or twelve days, stirring it every day. 
Make a clarified syrup of 2 pounds of finely 
sifted sugar and 1 pint of water; add this to the 
brandy, etc. Line a funnel with a piece of mus- 
lin, and that with chemists' filtering paper; let 
the liquid pass through two or three times till 
it is quite bright. This will require a little 
patience. Put it into small bottles, and cork it 
closely. Time, twelve days. Sufficient for a 
little more than three quarts of cura^oa. 
CuraQoa imparts an agreeable flavor to cream 
and to punch, and is an excellent liquor. 



46 BEVERAGES 

Ginger Cordial 

Pick 2 pounds of white or black currants. 
Bruise them slightly, and mix with them II/2 
ounces of ground ginger. Pour over them 1 
quart of good whiskey or brandy, and let them 
stand for two days. Strain off the liquid ; add 
1 pound of loaf sugar boiled to a syrup with a 
small teacupful of water. Bottle, and cork 
closely for use. Sufficient for three pints of 
cordial. 

Cherry Brandy (to be Made in July or 
August) 

The morello cherry is generally used for this 

purpose, on account of its peculiar acidity. It 

ripens later than other cherries, and is more 

expensive. It is seldom used as a dessert fruit ; 

nevertheless, if allowed to hang until fully ripe, 

it is very refreshing and agreeable to many 

palates. The cherries for brandy should be 

gathered in dry weather, and must be used 

when fresh. They ought not to be over-ripe. 

Wipe each one with a soft cloth, and cut the 

stalks, leaving them about half an inch in 

length. A little more than half fill wide-necked 

bottles such as are used for bottling fruit. 

Allow 3 ounces of pounded sugar with each 

pound of fruit, which must be placed in with it. 

Fill the bottles with the best French brandy. 

Do not make the mistake of supposing that the 



BEVERAGES 47 

fruit and sugar will make bad spirit pass fcr 
good. Cork the bottles securely, and seal over 
the top. The cherries maj^ be used in a month, 
but will be better in two. Three or four cloves 
put in the bottle are by many considered an im- 
provement. 

Apricot Brandy 

To every pound of fruit, take 1 pound of loaf 
sugar and a wineglassful of water. Put the 
apricots, which must be sound, but not quite 
ripe, into a preserving-pan with sufficient water 
to cover them ; allow them to boil ; then simmer 
gently till tender. Remove the skins. Clarify 
and boil the sugar, and pour it over the fruit. 
Let it remain twenty-four hours. Then put the 
apricots into glasses, and fill them up with 
syrup and brandy, half and half, and keep them 
well corked and the tops of the corks securely 
sealed. They must be kept twelve months 
before using. They should be prepared in 
July. Time to simmer the apricots, about one 
hour. 

Cherry Wine 

Take ripe, sweet cherries; stem them, wash, 
and mash with wooden mallet. Press out the 
juice, and to each quart add i/o pound of granu- 
lated sugar and 1 cupful of water. After stir- 
ring well pour into a crock, cover closely with 
cheesecloth, and leave for one month to fer- 



48 BEVERAGES 

ment. When this has ceased, rack off and put 
in bottles. 

Dandelion Wine 

Get 4 quarts of the yellow petals of the dan- 
delion, and pour over them into a tub 1 gallon 
of warm water that has previously been boiled. 
Stir it well round and cover with a blanket ; to 
stand three days, during which time it should 
be stirred frequently. Strain off the flowers 
from the liquid, and boil it for half an hour with 
the rind of a lemon, the rind of an orange, a 
little ginger, and 3VL' pounds of lump sugar to 
each gallon; add the sugar and lemon, from 
which the rinds were removed, in slices to the 
boiling liquor, and when cool ferment with 
yeast on a toast. When it has stood a day or 
two put it into a cask, and in two months bottle. 
This wine is said to be specially adapted to all 
persons suffering from liver complaints. 

Grape Wine (Home-made) 

Mash the grapes, stems and all, in an open 
cask, and cover it with cheesecloth, as the least 
particle falling into the contents may change it 
materially. 

After fermentation put through a fruit-press, 
turn the juice extracted into a clean, close cask, 
and leave on its side for one month, being care- 
ful not to disturb it and keeping it in a cool, 



BEVERAGES 49 

dark place. During fermentation, however, it 
should be stirred daily. 

It will now be ready to bottle, and the bottles 
should be laid away on their sides. 

Another Recipe 
Stem a small quantity of grapes and mash 
with a potato-beetle in a clean tub or crock. 
Strain through a bag to get as much juice as 
possible. To each quart of this add half a 
pound of white sugar, and put away to ferment 
in a big jar or clean cask, covering the bung- 
hole at the top with netting. After fermenting 
for three or four weeks it should be still and 
clear. Then bottle, pouring off the lees with 
care. 

Grape Juice 

Put f) quarts of grapes (stemmed) in 1 quart 
of water; bring slowly to a boil, and strain. 
Then return the juice to the fire, bring to a boil 
again, and, while scalding hot, bottle and seal. 

Rhubarb Wine 

In a double boiler boil the rhubarb, adding no 
water after washing it and cutting it into small 
pieces. Press out and measure all the juice; 
add an equal quantity of water, sweeten to the 
taste, and add brandy in the proportion of 1 
cupful to every gallon of the liquid. Bottle 
and seal. 




1— ■SVluskey 
6— Beer and Ale 
9— Btiss' Ale 



10— Beer Gtoblet 



4— Hot \Miiskey 
8-Rhine Wine 
11— CbainpagTia 



MIXING AND SERAHENG DRINKS 

HINTS TO THE MIXER 

In serving fancy drinks, when fruit is used 
it should be added just before serving, if the 
beverage is strained; otherwise, after the mix- 
ing and straining. 

Wlien preparing hot drinks, a silver spoon 
should be put into the glass, then a small quan- 
tity of boiling water added (this prevents the 
breaking of thin glasses and also heats them) ; 
for toddies the lumps of sugar are usually put 
in this first water to dissolve, then the other 
ingredients are added according to directions. 

Use shaved ice when no water or seltzer is 
to be added; use cracked ice when it is. Always 
strain drinks, never serving ice in them. 

Sweetening or syrup takes the place of sugar 
in the mixing of drinks. 

When egg or milk-drinks requiring the addi- 
tion of wine or liquor are to be made, the wine 
or liquor should be added last and slowly, a 
little at a time, stirring the meanwhile. 

For the making of cold punches, the punch- 
bowl should be placed in cracked ice (a little 
rocksalt sprinkled over the ice will intensify 
the cold). 

5} 



52 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

Bottles containing wines or liquors should 
always be kept in a reclining position in a mod- 
erate temperature; this keeps the corks moist 
and prevents evaporation. Wines, etc., that 
are to be served cold are chilled just in time to 
be served, the bottles being then placed in direct 
contact with the ice. When brought to the 
table a napkin is arranged around the bottle, 
and after being served it is again placed on ice 
in an ice-cooler placed to the left of the host. 

Syrups, bitters, and cordials should be kept 
cool, but not on the ice. 

Beer should always be served very cold, but 
malt ales at a moderate temperature. 

By referring to the article on ' ' Wines ' ' the 
proper temperature for each particular wine 
and liquor will be found. 

Absinthe Cocktail 

Into a small bar-glass put 2 dashes of ani- 
sette, 1 dash of Angostura bitters, 1 pony-glass 
of absinthe. Pour about 1 wineglassful of 
water into the glass in a small stream out of 
an absinthe glass. After shaking thoroughly 
with ice, strain into a claret-glass. 

Brandy Cocktail 

Into a small bar-glass, one-third filled with 
shaved ice, put 3 or 4 dashes of gum syrup, 2 
dashes of bitters (Boker's or Angostura), 1 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 53 



wineglassful of brandy, 1 or 2 dashes of 
ciiraQoa. Shake ii]i well and strain into a cock- 
tail glass. Before serving, twist small piece of 
lemon rind into the glass. 

Improved Brandy Cocktail 

Into ordinary bar-glass one-third full of 
shaved ice put 2 dashes Boker's (or Angostura) 
bitters, 3 dashes gum syrup, 2 dashes mara- 
schino, 1 dash absinthe, 1 small wineglassful of 
brandy. Shake thoroughly, and strain into a 
fancy cocktail glass, add small piece of twisted 
lemon peel, and serve. 

To im|)rove the flavor moisten the edge of 
the cocktail glass with a piece of lemon. 

Bottle Cocktail 

For bottle of brandy cocktail use % brandy, 
Va water, 1 pony-glass of Boker's bitters, 1 
wineglass of gum syrup, l^ pony-glass of 
curaQoa. 

Whis"key and gin cocktails, in bottles, may be 
similarly prepared by using those liquors in- 
stead of brandy. 

Champagne Cocktail 

Put 1 lump of sugar, 1 or 2 dashes Angostura 
bitters, and 1 small lump of ice in each goblet; 
then fill with wine, stir, and serve with a thin 
piece of twisted lemon peel. Allow 1 pint of 
wine to every 3 goblets. 



54 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

Coffee Cocktail 

Break a fresh egg into a large bar-glass ; add 
1 teaspoonful powdered white sugar, and pour 
in 1 large wineglassful of port wine and 1 pony 
of brandy; add 2 or 3 lumps of ice. Shake 
thoroughl}', and strain into a medium-sized bar- 
glass. Grate a little nutmeg on top, and serve. 
This beverage looks like coffee, but contains 
none. 

Gin Cocktail 

Fill a small bar-glass one-third full of shaved 
ice ; put in 3 or 4 dashes of gum syrup, 2 dashes 
of bitters (Boker's), 1 wineglassful of Holland 
gin, 1 or 2 dashes of curacoa. Strain into a 
cocktail glass, and twist a small piece of lemon 
peel into it. 

Old Tom Gin Cocktail 

Use Old Tom in place of Holland gin, and 
prepare as directed for gin cocktail. 

Improved Gin Cocktail 

Follow directions for improved brandy cock- 
tail, using Holland or Old Tom gin instead of 
brandy. 

Manhattan Cocktail 

Shake thoroughly the following: 2 dashes of 
curagoa or maraschino, 1 pony of rye whiskey, 
1 wineglassful of vermouth, 3 dashes of Boker's 
bitters, and 2 small lumps of ice. Then strain 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 55 

into a claret glass. Add a slice of lemon, and, 
to make very sweet, two dashes of gum syrup. 

Martinez Cocktail 

Shake up well, and then strain into a large 
cocktail glass 1 dash of Boker's bitters, 2 dashes 
of maraschino, 1 pony of Old Tom gin, 1 wine- 
glassful of vermouth, 2 small lumps of ice. 
Add a slice of lemon, and gum syrup if desired, 
as in last recipe. 

Japanese Cocktail 

Fill small bar-glass one-third with ice; then 
add 1 tablespoonful of orgeat syrup, 2 dashes 
of Boker's bitters, 1 wineglassful of brandy, 
and 1 or 2 pieces of lemon peel. Stir thor- 
oughly, and strain into a cocktail glass. 

Jersey Cocktail 

Fill a large bar-glass containing several 
pieces of ice with cider ; add 2 dashes of bitters, 
and stir into this 1 teaspoonful of fine white 
sugar. After mixing thoroughly, take out the 
ice and serve. 

Morning Glory Cocktail 

Into a medium-sized bar-glass ])ut the follow- 
ing ingredients, and stir well : 3 dashes of gum 
syrup, 2 dashes of curagoa, 2 dashes of Boker's 
bitters, 1 dash of absinthe, 1 pony of brandy, 
1 pony of whiskey, 1 piece of twisted lemon 



56 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

peel, and 2 sitiall pieces of ice. After removing 
the ice fill the glass with seltzer water or plain 
soda, add a little sugar, and stir. 

Saratoga Cocktail 

Put a couple of small lumps of ice in a small 
bar-glass; add 2 dashes Angostura bitters, 1 
pony of brandy, 1 pony of whiskey, 1 pony of 
vermouth. After shakir'g well strain into a 
claret glass, and add small slice of lemon. 

Vermouth Cocktail 

Put into small bar-glass 2 dashes of Boker's 
bitters, 1 wineglassful of vermouth, and shake, 
with small lump of ice. Then strain in a cock- 
tail glass containing small slice of lemon. Add 
2 dashes of gum syrup for extra sweetness. 

Fancy Vermouth Cocktail 

Into small bar-glass put 2 dashes Angostura 
bitters, 2 dashes maraschino, and 1 wineglass- 
ful of vermouth. Add shaved ice to fill the 
glass one-quarter full; after shaking, strain 
into a cocktail glass; garnish with slice of 

lemon. 

Whiskey Cocktail 

Put into small bar-glass 3 or 4 dashes of gum 
syrup, 2 dashes of bitters (Boker's), and 1 
wineglassful of whiskey. Fill one-third full of 
fine ice and shake. Strain in a fancy red wine- 
glass, and add piece of twisted lemon peel. 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 57 



Improved Whiskey Cocktail 

Same as improved brandy cocktail, Bourbon 

or rye whiskey being used instead of the 

brandy. 

Gin Rickey 

Put 1 or 2 pieces of ice in a fizz glass; add 

juice of a Hme, wineglassful of gin, and fill 

glass with seltzer or club soda. 

Mamie Taylor 

Put a piece of ice in a high-ball glass; pour 

in 1/^ wineglassful Scotch whiskey, then 1 bottle 

of cap or imported ginger ale; add piece of 

lemon peel. 

High Ball 

Take medium-sized bar-glass; put in it a 

lump of ice, 1 wineglassful Scotch whiskey, and 

fill with cold carbonic. 

Four-Fruit Liquor (a Pleasant Drink for 
Summer) 

Take 1 pound of raspberries, 1 pound of 

black currants, li/> pounds of strawberries, and 

iy2 pounds of morello cherries. Put them into 

a deep jar and cover them closely. Place the 

jar in a saucepan half filled with boiling water, 

and simmer very gently for half an I'lour, Take 

the pan from the fire and pass its contents 

through a jelly-bag, being very careful not to 

squeeze the fruit ; indeed, if a little of the juice 



58 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

be left in it, it may be used for common tarts. 
Measure the jui(^e and put it into a deep jar, 
and for every quart add 6 ounces of loaf sugar, 
which has been dissolved in half a pint of water. 
Add half the cherry kernels, slightly bruised, 
cover the jar to keep out the dust, and let it 
stand for twenty-four hours. Stir into it an 
equal quantity of brandy, pass the liquid again 
through the jelly-bag, and bottle for use. When 
taken, 2 tablespoonfuls of this liquor should be 
added to half a tumblerful of iced water. 

Heidelberg Punch, or Hebe's Cup 

Take a fresh frame-grown cucumber. Cut 
an inch and a half of it into thin slices, and put 
them into a punch-bowl with the thin rind of 
a sound lemon and 3 tablespoonfuls of pounded 
sugar. Work them well together for four or 
five minutes with the back of a wooden spoon; 
then pour over them 3 tablespoonfuls of brandy, 
6 of sherry, a bottle of soda-water, and a bottle 
of claret. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, 
and let them remain for one hour. Just before 
serving add another bottle of soda-water. Suffi- 
cient for a three-pint bowl. 

Usquebaugh (Irish) 

To 2 quarts of the best brandy, or whiskey 
without a smoky or any peculiar flavor, put a 
pound of stoned raisins, half an ounce of nut- 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 59 

megs, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the same 
quantity of cardamoms, all bruised in a mortar; 
the rind of a Seville orange rubbed off on lumps 
of sugar, a little tincture of saffron, and half a 
pound of brown sugar-candy. Shake the in- 
fusion every day for a fortnight, and filter it 
for use. Not a drop of water must be put to 
this cordial. It is sometimes tinged of a pale 
green with the juice of spinach instead of the 
saffron tint being imparted to it. 

Cider Cup 

Put a slice of crumb of bread toasted, at the 
bottom of a large jug; grate half a small nutmeg 
over it, and place on it 2 or 3 slices of thin 
lemon rind and half a dozen lumps of sugar. 
Pour over it 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, 1 of 
brandj% the juice of a lemon, a bottle of soda- 
water, and, last of all, a quart of cider. Mix 
well, put a sprig of borage or balm into it, and 
add a few lumps of pure ice. This should be 
used as soon as it is made. Time to make, ten 
minutes. Sufficient for a two-quart cup. 

Coffee Kirsch 

Mix together y^ teasi)oonful of powdered 
sugar, i/o pony creme de cocoa, I'/l' pony kirsch- 
wasser, and 1 cocktail-glassful of black coffee. 

After shaking thoroughly, strain into a 
claret glass, not filling quite to the rim, which 



60 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

has been dipped in water and then in powdered 

sugar. 

Champagne Velvet 

Fill a large-sized goblet with half porter and 
half champagne, and stir slowly. 

Absinthe Frappe 

Pour 2 ponies of absinthe into mixing-glass, 
fill with fine ice; fill shaker half full and shake. 
When shaker is frozen, strain into small cham- 
pagne glass, and fizz with carbonic. 

Hot Scotch. 

Dissolve 1 or 2 lumps of sugar in a heated 
glass half full of boiling water; mix in a por- 
tion of Scotch whiskey, and, if desired, a bit of 
lemon peel and nutmeg. 

Brandy Crusta 

Take a cocktail glass, rub the rim with sliced 
lemon, and dip into pulverized sugar, which will 
then adhere to the rim. Fit into the top of the 
glass the paring of half a lemon (in one piece, 
like an apple paring). Fill small whiskey glass 
one-third full of shaved ice, and put into it 3 
or 4 dashes of gum syrup, 1 dash of Boker's 
bitters, 1 wineglassful of brandy, 2 dashes of 
curaQoa, and 1 dash lemon juice. After shak- 
ing thoroughly, strain into the cocktail glass 
already prepared as directed. 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 61 

Whiskey Crusta 

"Wliiskey crusta the same as brandy crusta, 
using whiskey instead of brandy. 

Gin Crusta 

Gin crusta same as brandy crusta, using gin 
instead of brandy. 

Brandy Daisy 

Mix in small bar-glass one-third full of 
shaved ice, and shake thoroughly, 3 or 4 dashes 
of gum syru]), 2 or 3 dashes of curagoa cordial, 
the juice of half a small lemon, 1 small wine- 
glassful of brand}^ and 2 dashes of Jamaica 
rum. Then strain into a large cocktail glass, 
and fill from a syphon of seltzer. 

Whiskey Daisy 

Put in small bar-glass one-third full of 
shaved ice 3 dashes gum syrup, 2 dashes orgeat 
syrup, the juice of half a small lemon, and 1 
wineglassful of Bourbon or rye whiskey. After 
shaking, strain into a large cocktail glass, and 
fill with seltzer or Apollinaris. 

Santa Cruz Rum Daisy 

Fill small bar-glass one-third full of shaved 
ice; add 3 or 4 dashes of gum syrup, 2 or 3 
dashes of maraschino or curaQoa, the juice of 
half a small lemon, and 1 wineglassful of Santa 
Cruz rum. After shaking well, strain into 



62 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

large cocktail glass, and fill with Apollinaris or 

seltzer. 

Gin Daisy 

Into small bar-glass one-third full of shaved 

ice put 3 or 4 dashes of orgeat, or gum syrup, 

3 dashes of maraschino, the juice of half a small 

lemon, and 1 wineglassful of Holland gin. 

Shake thoroughly and strain into large cocktail 

glass. Fill up with seltzer or Apollinaris. 

Mint Julep 

Stir 1 tablespoonful of white pulverized 
sugar into large bar-glass containing 2i/2 table- 
spoonfuls of water. Press 3 or 4 sprigs of 
fresh mint in this solution to give it decided 
flavor; add li/o wineglassful of brandy, and fill 
the glass with shaved ice ; arrange in attractive 
way with the sprigs of mint standing in the ice, 
bouquet style. Add berries, slice of orange, 
etc., on top, a dash of Jamaica rum, and straws. 

The Real Georgia Mint Julep 

Put a dozen young sprigs of mint into a large 
bar-glass ; add a teaspoonf ul of powdered sugar 
dissolved in a small quantity of water ; then % 
wineglassful of cognac and -^ wineglassful of 
peach brandy, and fill up with shaved ice. (Use 
whiskey instead of brandy if preferred, though 
brandy is used in the South.) Stir without 
crushing the mint. 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 63 

The following paragraph is quoted from a 
Southern newspaper : 

" Probably the old fashioned julep is in its 
decadence as a public drink, but it does not 
follow that the art of constructing this famous 
Southern refresher is lost. On the contrarj^ 
we have knowledge of several old-fashioned 
gardens where the mint bed under the southern 
wall still blooms luxuriantly; where white fin- 
gers of household angels come every day about 
this time of the year and pluck a few sprays of 
the aromatic herb to build a julep for poor old 
shaky grandpa, who sits in the shady corner of 
the veranda with his feet on the rail and his 
head busy with the olden days. In such a 
household the art is still preserved. With her 
sleeves rolled up, the rosy granddaughter stirs 
sugar in a couple of tablespoonfuls of sparkling 
water, packs crushed ice to the to]i of the heavy 
cut-glass goblet, pours in the mellow whiskey 
until an overflow threatens, and then daintily 
thrusts the mint sprays into the crevices. And 
the old man, rousing from his dreams, blesses 
the vision which seems to rise up from the 
buried days of his youth, and with his gay nose 
nestling peacefully in the nosegay at the sum- 
mit of his midday refresher, quaffs the icy 
drink, and with a long-drawn sigh of relief 
sinks back to dream again until the dinner-bell 



64 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 



sounds its hospitable summons. The mint 
julep still lives, but it is by no means fashion- 
able. Somehow the idea has gotten abroad that 
the mint ought to be crushed and shaken up 
with water and whiskey in equal proportions. 
No man can fall in love with such a mixture. 
Poor juleps have ruined the reputation of the 
South 's most famous drink." 

Gin Julep 

Gin julep the same as mint julep, without the 
" trimmings." 

Whiskey Julep 

Whiskey julep the same as mint julep, with- 
out fruits and berries. 

Pineapple Julep 

Put into a glass bowl, with ice, the juice of 
2 oranges, 1 gill of raspberry syrup, 1 gill of 
maraschino, 1 gill of Old Tom gin, 1 quart bottle 
sparkling moselle, and 1 ripe pineapple, peeled, 
sliced, and cut up. Served in flat glasses, add- 
ing berries in season. This recipe will make 
enough for five persons. 

Brandy Smash 

Press several tender shoots of mint into a 
small bar-glass containing 1 teaspoonful of 
white sugar dissolved in 2 tablespoonfuls of 
water. Add 1 wineglassful of brandy and fill 



IVUXING AND SERVING DRINKS 65 

two-thirds full of shaved ice. After stirring 
well, add small slice of orange and fresh mint. 
Serve with straws. 

Gin Smash 

Crush 3 or 4 sprigs of mint into small bar- 
glass containing 1 teaspoonful of fine white 
sugar dissolved in 2 teaspoonfuls of water. 
Add 1 wineglassful of gin, and fill with shaved 
ice. Stir thoroughly and embellish with fresh 
sprigs of mint. 

Whiskey Smash 

Same as gin smash, using whiskey instead 

of gin. 

Brandy Fix 

Dissolve 1 large teaspoonful of fine white 

sugar in a little water in a bar-glass; add the 

juice of a quarter of a lemon, 3 dashes of cura- 

goa, 1 wineglassful of brandy, and fill two-thirds 

fuli of shaved ice. After stirring thoroughly 

place slice of lemon or lime on top. 

Gin Fix 

Dissolve 1 large teaspoonful of powdered 
sugar in a little water in small bar-glass; add 
2 dashes of raspberry syrup, the juice of a 
quarter of a lemon, 1 wineglassful of Holland 
gin (or Old Tom, if preferred), and, after stir- 
ring well, fill two-tliirds full of shaved ice; em- 
bellish with berries in season. 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 



Santa Cruz Fix 

Dissolve 1 large teaspoonful of powdered 
sugar in a little water, in a small bar-glass ; add 
2 dashes of curagoa, the juice of a quarter of 
a lemon, 1 wineglassful of Santa Cruz rum, and 
fill two-thirds full of shaved ice. After stirring 
thoroughly garnish with small slices of orange 
and pineaj)ple. 

Whiskey Fix 

Dissolve 1 large teaspoonful of powdered 
white sugar in a little water; add the juice of 
half a lemon, 1 wineglassful of Bourbon or rye 
whiskey, and fill two-thirds full of shaved ice. 
Stir, and garnish with orange and pineapple. 

Sherry Cobbler 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 tablespoonful of 
fine white sugar, 1 slice of orange cut up into 
quarters, 2 small pieces of pineapple, and fill 
nearly full of shaved ice. Then add enough 
sherry wine to fill full. Shake thoroughly and 
decorate with berries in season. Serve with 
straws. 

Champagne Cobbler 

Put into a tumbler 1 teaspoonful of sugar 
and 1 piece each of orange and lemon peel, and 
fill one-third full with shaved ice. Then fill full 
with wine, add berries in season, and serve with 



MIXING AP^ SERVING DRINKS 6) 



straws. One bottle of wine should be allowed 
for every four bar-glasses of the large size. 

Catawba Cobbler 

Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of fine white sugar in 

a little water in a large bar-glass; add 1 slice 

of orange cut into quarters, and fill half full of 

shaved ice. Fill remainder with Catawba wine, 

decorate with berries in season, and serve with 

straws. 

Claret Cobbler 

The same as catawlia cobbler, substituting 

claret wine for catawba. 

Hock Cobbler 

The same as catawba cobbler, substituting 
hock wine for catawba. 

Sauterne Cobbler 

The same as catawba cobbler, substituting 
sauterne for catawba. 

Knickerbocker 

Into a small bar-glass sciueeze one-half a lime 
or small lemon; add the rind, 3 teaspoonfuls of 
raspberry syrup, 1 wineglassful of Santa Cruz 
rum, and 3 dashes of curagoa. Then fill one- 
third full of fine ice, shake thoroughly, and 
strain into a cocktail glass. Add a little more 
syrup for extra sweetness, if desired. 



68 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

Whiskey Cobbler 

Put into a tumbler li/. wineglassfuls of 
whiskey, 1 teaspoonful of white sugar dissolved 
in a little water, 1 slice of orange cut into quar- 
ters, 1 dash of maraschino, and fill with shaved 
ice. After shaking well decorate with berries, 
and serve with straws. 

Saratoga Brace-l/p 

Shake up well in a large bar-glass 1 table- 
spoonful of fine white sugar, 2 dashes of An- 
gostura bitters, 4: dashes of lemon or lime juice, 
2 dashes of absinthe, 1 fresh egg, 1 wineglass- 
ful of brandy, and 2 or 3 small lumps of ice. 
After straining into another glass, fill up with 
seltzer. 

Santina's Pousse Caf6 

Pour separately into a small wineglass one- 
third fine old Cognac brandy, one-third mara- 
schino, one-third curacoa. 

This pousse takes its name from Santina, the 
Spanish proprietor of a well-known New Or- 
leans cafe. 

Pousse I'Amour 

Pour into a sherry glass V^ glassful of mara- 
schino; then, without disturbing this, add with 
a spoon the yolk of 1 egg. Carefully introduce, 
next, sufficient vanilla cordial to surround the 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 69 

egg, and finally pour on top 1 tablespoonful of 
fine old brandy. 

Precision, a steady hand, and care in keep- 
ing the elements separate, are among the 
requisites for a good pousse. The safest way 
is to pour the ingredients from a sherry glass. 

Parisian Pousse Caf6 

Taking the usual care to keej) the elements 
separate, pour into a small wineglass two-fifths 
curagoa, two-fifths kirschwasser, and one-fifth 
chartreuse. 

Faivre's Pousse Cafe 

Served in a small bar-glass, and consists of 
the following ingredients: one-third Parisian 
pousse cafe (as above), one-third kirschwasser, 
one-third curagoa. 

M. Faivre, for whom this pousse was named, 
was formerly at the head of one of New York's 
well-known French cafes. 

Saratoga Pousse Caf6 

Serve in small wineglass one-fifth curagoa, 
one-fifth Benedictine, one-fifth raspberry syrup, 
two-fifths fine old brandy, 1 teaspoonful of va- 
nilla cordial on top. 

West India Couperee 

Mix well, in a large soda -glass one-third full 
of vanilla ice cream, IVL* pony-glasses of 



70 MKB^G AND SERVING DRINKS 

brandy, 1 pony-glass maraschino or curagoa. 
Then fill nearly full with plain soda. Add a 
little grated nutmeg on the surface. 

Brandy Scaffa 

One-half fine old brandy, one-half mara- 
schino, 2 dashes of Angostura bitters. Serve 
in a small wineglass. 

Brandy Champerelle 

One-third old brandy, one-third curacoa, one- 
third Benedictine, 3 dashes Angostura bitters. 
Serve in a small wineglass. 

White Lion 

Put in a small bar-glass 1 teaspoonful of pul- 
verized sugar ; squeeze into this the juice of half 
a lime and add the rind. Pour in 1 wineglass- 
ful Santa Cruz rum, 1 teaspoonful of curagoa, 
1 teaspoonful of raspberry syrup. Fill the 
glass half full of shaved ice and, after shaking 
thoroughly, strain into a cocktail glass. 

Santa Cruz Sour 

Dissolve 1 large teaspoonful of white sugar 
in a little seltzer or Apollinaris in a small bar- 
glass ; add 3 dashes of lemon juice, 1 wineglass- 
ful of Santa Cruz rum. 

Fill with shaved ice, shake, and strain into a 
claret glass. Add berries in season, and slices 
of orange. 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 7J 

Gin Sour 

Dissolve 1 large teasi)ooiiful of white sugar 
in a little seltzer or Apollinaris in a small bar- 
glass ; add 2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice, 1 wine- 
glassful of Holland or Old Tom gin. Fill with 
shaved ice, shake, and strain into a claret glass. 
Garnish top with pineapple and berries, or slice 
of orange. 

Whiskey Sour 

In a small bar-glass dissolve 1 large tea- 
spoonful of powdered white sugar in a little 
seltzer or Apollinaris; add the juice of half a 
small lemon, 1 wineglassful of Bourbon or rye 
whiskey, and fill with shaved ice. After shak- 
ing well strain into a claret glass, and add 
berries. 

Brandy Sour 

In a small bar-glass dissolve 1 large tea- 
spoonful of powdered white sugar in a little 
Apollinaris or seltzer; add the juice of half a 
lemon, 1 dash of curaQoa, 1 wineglassful of 
brandy, and fill with shaved ice. After shak- 
ing well, strain into a claret glass, and add ber- 
ries and a slice of orange. 

Jersey Sour 

Dissolve 1 large teaspoonful of powdered 
white sugar in a little water in a small bar- 
glass. Add 2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice, 1 



72 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

wineglassful of applejack, and fill with shaved 
ice. After shaking well, strain into a claret 
glass, and add berries. 

Egg Sour 

Shake up well in a small bar-glass 1 teaspoon- 
ful of powdered white sugar, 3 dashes of lemon 
juice, 1 pony of curagoa, 1 pony of brandy, 1 
egg, 2 or 3 small lumps of ice. Remove the ice. 

Apple Toddy 

Dissolve in a little boiling water 1 large 
teaspoonful of fine white sugar. Pour into a 
hot bar-glass (middle-sized), and add 1 wine- 
glassful of cider brandy (applejack), half of a 
baked apple. Then fill the glass two-thirds full 
of boiling water, stir well, powder the top with 
grated nutmeg, and serve with a spoon. 

Cold Brandy Toddy 

Dissolve in small bar-glass 1 teaspoonful of 
fine white sugar in i/^ wineglassful of water. 
Add 1 wineglassful of brandy and 1 lump of 
ice, and stir well. 

Hot Brandy Toddy 

Dissolve in a hot bar-glass (small size) 1 tea- 
spoonful of fine white sugar in a little boiling 
water; add 1 wineglassful of brandy, and pour 
boiling water in until the glass is two-thirds 
full. Drc.'s the top with a little grated nutmeg. 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 73 



Cold Gin Toddy 

Dissolve 1 teaspooiit'ul of powdered sugar in 
1/2 wiueglassfiil of water in a small bar-glass. 
Add 1 wineglassful of gin, 1 lump of ice, and 
stir well. 

Hot Gin Toddy 

Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of powdered sugar in 
boiling water in a hot bar-glass, small. Add 1 
wineglassful of gin (Old Tom or Holland, as 
preferred), and pour boiling water in until the 
glass is two-thirds full. 

Cold Whiskey Toddy 

In a small bar-glass dissolve 1 teaspoonful 
of fine white sugar in a little water. Add 1 
wineglassful of Bourbon or rye whiskey, and 
1 lump of ice, and stir well. 

For hot whiskey toddy the ice is omitted, 
the sugar dissolved in boiling water, and boil- 
ing water is poured into the glass until it is 
two-thirds full. 

Cold Irish-Whiskey Toddy 

In a small bar-glass dissolve 1 teaspoonful of 
fine white sugar in 2 wineglassfuls of water. 
Add 1 wineglassful of fine Irish whiskey and 1 
lump of ice, and stir well. This will make a 
particularly fine drink with either. 



74 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

Eggnogg 

Mix in a large bar-glass 1 large teaspoonful 
of powdered white sugar, 1 fresh egg, i4 wine- 
glassful of brandy, and I/2 wi^ieglassf ul of Santa 
Cruz rum (or 1 wineglassful of either of the 
two liquors), a little shaved ice, and fill with 
rich milk. Shake very thoroughly in a tin egg- 
nogg " shaker," remove the ice, and pour into 
a goblet ; add grated nutmeg on top. 

Hot Eggnogg 
A favorite California drink. Make it in a 
large bar-glass in the same manner as cold egg- 
nogg, only using boiling water instead of ice. 

Eggnogg for a Party 

Beat the whites of 20 fresh eggs until very 
light, and the yolks separately until well cut up 
with the egg-beater; then mix the yolks in a 
big punch-bowl with 2i4 quarts fine old brandy, 
1 pint of Santa Cruz rum, and 2 pounds of 
whi«te sugar. Then pour in slowly 21/2 gallons 
of rich milk, stirring constantly to prevent 
curdling. Add grated nutmeg, then the beaten 
white of egg on top, and decorate with colored 
sugars. Leave it standing in a tub of ice be- 
fore serving. This recipe makes 3^2 gallons. 

Sherry Eggnogg 

Put into a large bar-glass IV2 teaspoonfuls 
of fine white sugar, 1 fresh egg, 2 or 3 small 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 75 

lumps of ice, 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, and fill 
the glass with rich milk. After shaking well, 
so as to mix the whole thoroughly, strain into a 
large goblet, remove the ice, and add grated 
nutmeg on top. 

General Harrison's Egrgnogg: 

Put into a large bar-glass lVi> teaspoonfuls 
of sugar, 1 fresh egg, 2 or 3 small lumps of ice, 
and fill with cider. Shake thoroughly. 

This fine old drink is said to have been a 
prime favorite with General Harrison, and was 
constantly called for in the days when people 
took the steamboat trip " down the Mississ- 
ippi." 

Baltimore Eggnogg 

Beat the whites of 10 eggs till stiff; then beat 
the yolks and 10 teaspoonfuls powdered sugar 
together to a cream; mix in well V3 of a nut- 
meg, grated, and add V^ pint of brandy (or Ja- 
maica rum) and 2 wineglassfuls of madeira 
wine. Now, into this mixture beat the already 
beaten white of egg, and stir in gradually 
(while constantly beating) 6 pints of rich milk. 
Stand it in a tub of ice till cooled. This recipe 
makes enough for ten people. 

Santa Cruz Fizz 

Into a bar-glass of medium size put 1 tea- 
spoonful of fine white sugar, 3 dashes of lemon 



76 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

juice, 1 small lump of ice, 1 wineglassful of 
Santa Cruz rum. Fill the glass with seltzer 
from a syi^hon, or with Apollinaris, and stir 
well. 

Whiskey Fizz 
Put into a bar-glass of medium size 1 tea- 
spoonful of fine white sugar, 3 dashes of lemon 
juice, 1 small lump of ice, 1 wineglassful of 
Bourbon or rye whiskey. Fill with seltzer or 
Apollinaris, and stir well. 

Brandy Fizz 

Put into a bar-glass of medium size 1 tea- 
spoonful of powdered sugar, 3 dashes of lemon 
juice, 1 wineglassful of brandy, 1 small lump of 
ice. Fill the glass with Apollinaris or seltzer, 
and stir well. 

Gin Fizz 

Into a bar-glass (medium size) put 1 tea- 
spoonful of powdered white sugar, 3 dashes of 
lemon juice, 1 wineglassful of Holland gin, 1 
small piece of ice. Fill with Apollinaris or 
seltzer, and stir well. 

Silver Fizz 

Into a large bar-glass put 1 tablespoonful of 
pulverized white sugar, 3 dashes of lemon or 
lime juice, the white of 1 egg, 1 wineglassful of 
Old Tom gin, 2 or 3 small lumps of ice. After 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 77 

shaking well, strain into a middle-sized bar- 
glass and fill with seltzer. 

Golden Fizz 

Made exactly in the manner of silver fizz, 

only substituting the yolk of an egg for the 

white. 

Brandy Sling 

Dissolve in a small bar-glass 1 small tea- 
spoonful of powdered white sugar in 1 wine- 
glassful of water; add 1 small lump of ice and 
1 wineglassful of brandy, and stir thoroughly. 
Serve with a little grated nutmeg on top. 

Hot Brandy Sling 

In a hot bar-glass of medium size dissolve 1 

small teaspoonful of powdered sugar in a little 

boiling water. Add 1 wineglassful of brandy, 

and fill the glass two-thirds full of boiling 

water. Serve with a little grated nutmeg on 

top. 

Gin Sling 

In a small bar-glass dissolve 1 small tea- 
spoonful of fine white sugar in 1 wineglassful 
of water. Add 1 wineglassful of brandy and 1 
small lump of ice, and stir well. Serve with a 
little grated nutmeg on top. 

Hot Gin Sling 
In a hot bar-glass of medium size dissolve 1 
small teaspoonful of powdered white sugar in 



78 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

a little boiling water. Add 1 wineglassful of 
Holland gin, and fill the glass two-tliirds full of 
boiling water. Serve with a little grated nut- 
meg on top. 

Whiskey Sling 

In a small bar-glass dissolve 1 small tea- 
spoonful of powdered white sugar in 1 wine- 
glassful of water. Add 1 wineglassful of 
Bourbon or rye whiskey, a little ice, and stir 
well. Serve with a little grated nutmeg on top. 

Hot Whiskey Sling 

In a hot bar-glass of medium size dissolve 1 
small teaspoonful of powdered sugar in a little 
hot water. Add 1 wineglassful of Bourbon or 
rye whiskey, and fill the glass two-thirds full 
of boiling water. Serve with a little grated 
nutmeg on top. 

Hot Spiced Rum 

In a hot bar-glass of middle size dissolve 1 
small teaspoonful of powdered white sugar in 
a little boiling water. Add 1 wineglassful of 
Jamaica rum, 1 teaspoonful of spices (allspice 
and cloves not ground), 1 piece of sweet butter 
as large as half a chestnut, and fill the glass 
two-thirds full of boiling water. 

Hot Rum 

In a hot bar-glass of medium size dissolve 
1 small teaspoonful of powdered sugar in a 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 79 

little boiling water. Add 1 wineglassful Ja- 
maica rum, 1 piece of sweet butter as large as 
half a chestnut, and fill tlie glass two-thirds full 
of boiling water. Stir well, and serve with a 
little grated nutmeg on top. 

Blue Blazer 

Take 2 silver-plated mugs, and put in one of 
these 1 small teaspoonful of powdered white 
sugar dissolved in 1 wineglassful of boiling 
water and 1 wineglassful of Scotch whiskey. 
Set the li([uid on fire, and while blazing mix by 
pouring four or five times from one mug to the 
other. When cleverly done, this looks like a 
stream of liquid fire. Add a jiiece of twisted 
lemon peel, and serve in a small bar-glass. 

To mix this beverage an expert is required — 
one who has been made perfect by practice with 
cold water, — otherwise he will be scalded in 
passing the hot li(iuid from one vessel to an- 
other. 

Tom and Jerry 

Beat, separately, the whites and the yolks of 
12 fresh eggs till the whites are stiff and the 
yolks no thicker than water; then mix together 
in a punch-bowl, and add V^ small bar-glassful 
of Jamaica rum, li/o teaspoonfuls of ground 
cinnamon, V-j teaspoonful of ground cloves, i L' 
teaspoonful of ground allspice. After stirring 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 



well, add fine white sugar until the mixture at- 
tains the consistence of a light batter. 

The sugar can be prevented from settling at 
the bottom by using about as much carbonate 
of soda as can be got on a dime, or a teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar. 

How to Serve Tom and Jerry 

Put into a small bar-glass 1 tablespoonful of 
the mixture, described in the recipe for Tom 
and Jerry, and add 1 wineglassful of brandy. 
Fill the glass with boiling water, and put a little 
grated nutmeg on top. Serve with a spoon. 

Sometimes, for convenience, a bottle is kept 
on hand containing a mixture one-half brandy, 
one-quarter Jamaica rum, one-quarter Santa 
Cruz rum. Then, instead of plain brandy, a 
wineglassful of this mixture is used to every 
tumbler of Tom and Jerry. 

Copenhagen 

This is the same thing as Tom and Jerry, the 
only difference being in the name. 

Scotch Whiskey Skin 

Einse a small bar-glass with hot water ; then 
put in it 1 lump of white sugar, fill half-full of 
boiling water, add 1 small wineglassful of Glen- 
livet or Islay whiskey, and 1 small piece of 
lemon rind. Stir well, and serve with a spoon. 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 8J 



Irish Whiskey Skin 

Follow the directions for Scotch whiskey 

skir, only substituting Irish whiskey for the 

other. 

Columbia Skin 

This beverage is made in Boston exactly as 

a whiskey skin. 

Tom Collins Whiskey 

Put into a small bar-glass 5 or 6 dashes of 
gum syrup, juice of a small lemon, 1 large wine- 
glassful of whiskey, 2 or 3 lumps of ice. After 
shaking thoroughly, strain into a large bar- 
glass, and fill with plain soda-water. Drink 
while it is full of life. 

Tom Collins Brandy 

Follow the directions for Tom Collins whis- 
key, only substituting brandy for whiskey. 

Tom Collins Gin 

Follow the directions for Tom Collins whis- 
key, only substituting gin for whiskey. 

Hot Brandy Flip 

In a hot bar-glass (large size) dissolve 1 tea- 
spoonful of sugar in a little hot water. Add 
1 wineglassful of brandy and yolk of 1 egg. 
Shake well, pour into a bar-glass of middle size, 
and fill one-half full of boiling water. Serve 
with a little grated nutmeg on top. 



82 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

Hot Whiskey Flip 

Follow the directions for brandy flip, only- 
substituting whiskey for brandy. 

Hot Rum Flip 

Follow the directions for brandy flip, only 
substituting Jamaica rum for brandy. 

Hot Gin Flip 

Follow the directions for brandy flip, only 
substituting Holland gin for brandy. 

Cold Brandy Flip 

In a large bar-glass, dissolve 1 teaspoonful 
powdered sugar in i/o wineglassful of water; 
add 1 wineglassful of brandy; 1 fresh egg; 2 
lumps of ice. After shaking well strain into a 
small bar-glass, and serve with a little grated 
nutmeg on top. 

Cold Rum Flip 

Into a large bar-glass put 1 teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar, dissolved in a little water; 1 
wineglassful of Jamaica rum, 1 fresh egg, 2 or 3 
lumps of ice. After shaking well, strain into a 
middle-sized glass, and serve with a little grated 
nutmeg on top. 

Cold Gin Flip 

Follow directions for cold rum flip, only sub- 
stituting Holland gin for Jamaica rum. 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 83 

Cold Whiskey Flip 

Follow directions for rum flip, only substi- 
tuting Bourbon or rye whiskey for Jamaica rum. 

Port Wine Flip 

Break 1 fresh egg into a large bar-glass ; add 
1 small teaspoonful of powdered white sugar, 1 
large wineglassful of port wine, 2 or 3 small 
lumps of ice. After shaking well, strain into a 
medium-sized goblet. 

Sherry Wine Flip 

Follow directions for port wine flip, only sub- 
stitute sherry wine for port. 

Mulled Wine with Eggs 
Beat up, separately, the whites of 9 fresh 
eggs, and the yolks, beating in with the yolks 4 
tablespoonfuls of powdered white sugar. Set 
over the fire, in an absolutely clean skillet, 1 
quart either of port, claret, or red burgundy 
wine, and VL' piiit of water. Now mix the whites 
and yolks of the eggs in a punch-bowl with an- 
other i/> pint of water and beat them well to- 
gether. When the wine boils ]iour it also into 
the bowl, add a little grated nutmeg, and stir 
rapidly. 

Do not pour the mixture into the wine, or the 
eggs will curdle. 

To suit the taste, a little allspice and more 
sugar are added. 



84 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

Mulled Cider 

Follow directions for mulled wine with eggs, 
only using twice as much cider to the same 
number of eggs, and omitting the water. 

Mulled Wine 

Dissolve 14 pound of sugar in 2 pints of hot 
water in an absolutely clean punch-bowl; add 
21/2 pints of good sherry wine, and let the mix- 
ture come nearly to the boil. Have the white 
of 1 egg beaten to a froth, pour it into the 
hot mixture, stir rapidly, and add a little 
grated nutmeg. 

Mulled Wine without Eggs 

General Ride 

Into an absolutely clean vessel containing 
water in the proportion of 1 small tumblerful 
to every pint of wine to be mulled, put spice 
(the quantity of spice must be determined to 
suit individual taste), and boil until the flavor 
is extracted. (Cloves, cinnamon, and grated 
nutmeg are the usual spices for mulled wine.) 
Then add the wine, and sugar to suit the taste ; 
bring to the boiling point, and then serve with 
biscuits, or strips of crisp, dry toast. 

Port and claret are the wines most com- 
monly mulled, though any kind of wine may be 
so treated. An extra quantity of sugar is 
needed for claret. 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS &5 



Quince Liqueur 

Grate enough (luinces to make 2 quarts of 
juice, aud squeeze them through a jelly-bag. 
Mix together with this 4 quarts of cognac 
brandy, 21/0 pounds of white sugar, 12 ounces of 
bitter almonds, bruised, 1 pound of coriander 
seeds, 36 cloves. 

Put the mixture into a demijohn, and shake 
well every day for ten days. Then strain the 
li(|uid through a jelly-bag till it is perfectly 
clear, and put into a bottle. 

This recipe will make II/2 gallons of the most 
delicious liqueur. 

Port Wine Sangaree 

Put into a medium-sized bar-glass 1 claret- 
glassful of port wine, Vl> teaspoonful of pow- 
dered white sugar, 2 or 3 small lumps of ice, and 
shake thoroughly. Strain into a small bar- 
glass, and grate a little nutmeg on top. 

Sherry Sangaree 

In a middle-sized bar-glass put 1 claret-glass- 
ful of sherry wine, 1 o teaspoonful of fine white 
sugar, 2 or 3 small lumps of ice. 

Shake thoroughly, strain into a small bar- 
glass, and grate a little nutmeg on the top. 

Brandy Sangaree 

In a middle-sized bar-glass, dissolve Vo tea- 
spoonful of tine white sugar in a little water. 



86 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

Add 1 wineglass of brandy, and fill the glass 
Vs full of shaved ice. After shaking thor- 
oughly, strain into a small glass and add a 
dash of port wine. Grate a little nutmeg on 
the top. 

Gin Sangaree 

Follow directions for brandy sangaree, only 
substituting Holland gin for brandy. 

Ale Sangaree 

Put 1 teaspoonful of fine white sugar dis- 
solved in a wineglassful of water into a large 
bar-glass. 

Fill up with ale, stir, and grate a little nut- 
meg on top. 

Porter Sangaree 

Put 1 teaspoonful of fine white sugar dis- 
solved in a wineglassful of water into a large 
bar-glass. 

Fill up with porter, stir, and grate a little 
nutmeg on the top. 

Porteree 

Another name for porter sangaree. 

Port Wine Negus 
Into a small bar-glass put 1 wineglassful of 
port wine; 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and fill V3 
full with hot water. Grate a little nutmeg on 
top. 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 87 

Negus may be made in any quantity out of 
any sweet wine, — sherry, etc., though port is 
most commonly used. The ingredients are 
given here in the proportion to be used with 
every pint of the wine. Pouring 1 pint of the 
wine into a jug, take a lemon and rub on the 
rind 14 of a pound of loaf sugar (lumps) until 
the yellow part of the skin is entirely absorbed, 
squeeze and strain the juice. Now mix the 
wine, the sugar and lemon juice, and add grated 
nutmeg to suit the taste ; pour over the mixture 
1 quart of boiling water, cover the jug, and al- 
low it to cool somewhat. 

This favorite English drink is named for Col- 
onel Negus, its reputed inventor. 

Soda Negus 

To make a quart of this fine, effervescing 
beverage, put into an absolutely clean saucepan 
1 pint of pOj^t wine, 8 lumps of white loaf sugar, 
6 cloves, and 1 teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. 

Warm and stir thoroughly, without allowing 
it to come to a boil. Pour into a bowl or pitcher, 
and decant a bottle of plain soda-water upon 
the warm wine. 

Currant Shrub 

Into 1 quart of strained currant juice put li/4 
pounds of loaf sugar. Boil gently not over ten 



38 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

minutes, skim carefully, and remove from the 
fire. When lukewarm, add brandy, allowing 
14 a gill to every pint of shrub. Put in a tight 
bottle. 

Shrub may be made of cherry or raspberry 
juice in the same way, only reducing the quan- 
tity of sugar. Mixed with ice water, a little 
shrub is very good. 

Raspberry Shrub 

Pour 1 quart of vinegar over 3 quarts of ripe 
raspberries. Allow it to stand a day, strain, 
and add sugar, allowing 1 pound to each pint. 
Then boil about half an hour, skimming clear. 
When cool, add a wineglassful of brandy to each 
pint of the shrub. 

When heated, with extreme weather or with 
fever, this makes a very good beverage by mix- 
ing about 2 cupfuls in a tumbler of water. This 
recipe will make 1 gallon. 

Brandy Shrub 

Take 5 lemons, peel the rinds of 2, add the 
juice from all 5, and mix with 2 quarts of 
brandy. After keeping it closely covered for 3 
days, add 1 quart of sherry and 2 pounds of 
loaf sugar dissolved in water. Strain through 
a jelly-bag and pour into a bottle. This recipe 
will make 3 quarts. 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 89 

Rum Shrub 

Mix together 3 gallons of best Jamaica rum; 
1 quart of orange juice ; 1 pint of lemon juice ; 6 
pounds of powdered sugar dissolved in water. 
After leaving closely covered over night, boil 3 
])ints of fresh milk, and when cold add to the 
mixture. After filtering through a flannel bag 
lined with blotting paper, bottle, and cork im- 
mediately. 

This recipe makes about 4 gallons.. 

Bishop 

Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of powdered sugar in 
1 wineglassful of water. Pour this into a large 
soda-glass; add 2 thin slices lemon, 2 dashes 
of Jamaica rum, 2 or 3 small lumps of ice. 

Fill the glass with claret or red burgundy, 
shake thoroughly and remove the ice. 

English Bishop 

Roast before a fire an orange (stuck well with 
cloves, to suit the taste). When brown enough 
cut in quarters, and pour over it 1 quart of port 
wine (already heated), add sugar to suit the 
taste, and allow to simmer over the fire for half 
an hour. 

This recipe makes 1 quart. 

Brandy Punch 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar dissolved in a little water 



90 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

(since it does not readily dissolve in spirits) ; 
add 1 teaspoonful of raspberry syrup; 1 Trine- 
glassful of brandy ; i/i wineglassf ul of Jamaica 
rum ; juice of I/2 a lemon ; 2 slices of orange ; 1 
piece of pineapple. 

Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake well, and 
ornament with berries in season. Serve with a 
straw. 

Brandy-and-Rum Punch 

Into a large bar-glass put 1 tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar dissolved in a little water. Add 
1 wineglassful of Santa Cruz rum ; 1/0 wineglass- 
f ul of brandy ; juice of 1/0 a small lemon ; 1 slice 
of orange (quartered), and 1 piece of pineapple. 

Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake thor- 
oughly, ornament with sliced lime and berries 
in season, and serve with a straw. 

Medford Rum Punch 

Into a large bar-glass put 1 tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar dissolved in a little water ; IV2 
glasses of Medford rum; 1 pony-glassful of Ja- 
maica rum; 2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice, and 1 
slice of orange (quartered). 

Fill the glass with ice, shake thoroughly, and 

add sliced lime and berries in season. Serve 

with a straw. 

Gin Punch 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 tablespoonful of 

raspberry syrujD; 1 tablespoonful of powdered 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 91 

sugar, dissolved in a little seltzer; I14 wine- 
glassfuls of Holland gin; juice of Y^ a small 
lemon; 1 slice of orange (quartered) ; 1 piece of 
pineapple, and 1 or 2 dashes of maraschino. 

Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake thor- 
oughly, and add sliced lime and berries in 
season. 

Santa Cruz Rum Punch 

Into a large bar-glass put 1 tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar dissolved in a little water; 1 
wineglassful of Santa Cruz rum; V^ winegiass- 
ful of Jamaica rum; 2 or 3 dashes of lemon 
juice, and 1 slice of orange (quartered). 

Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake thor- 
oughly, and decorate with sliced lime and ber- 
ries in season. Serve with a straw. 

Hot Irish Whiskey Punch 

Rinse in hot water a bar-glass of medium 
size; in this dissolve thoroughly 2 lumps of 
loaf sugar in 1 wineglassful of boiling water, 
pour in 1 wineglassful Kinahan's or Jamieson's 
Irish whiskey. Add a second wineglassful of 
boiling water, and a small piece of lemon rind 
or thin slice of lemon. 

As mentioned before, sugar does not dis- 
solve easily in spirits: hence it is important, 
when making a punch or hot toddy, to put in 
at least enough water to fully dissolve the 



92 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

sugar before pouring in the spirits. This may 
be done safely if the glass into which the hot 
water is to be poured be first carefully warmed. 
For all hot drinks made with whiskey, or 
brandy, pulverized rock-candy is better than 
sugar. 

Hot Scotch Whiskey Punch 
Dissolve 2 lumps of loaf sugar in 1 wineglass- 
ful of boiling water. Pour into a bar-glass of 
medium size, after rinsing well in hot water, and 
add 1 winegiassful of Glenlivet or Islay whiskey. 
Add a second winegiassful of boiling water, a 
small piece of lemon rind or thin slice of lemon. 

Cold Whiskey Punch 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar dissolved in a little water, juice 
of ly-o small lemon, li/^ wineglassfuls of Irish or 
Scotch whiskey. 

Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake thor- 
oughly, and decorate on top with 2 thin slices 
of lemon and berries in season. Serve with a 
straw. 

When planning cold whiskey punch for a 
tableful of guests, make it with boiling water, 
allowing one or two days for it to concoct and 
cool before serving. The ingredients will then 
make a much more perfect mixture than will 
ever result from whiskey and water cold. 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 93 

Arrack Punch 

Into a bar-glass of medium size put 1 table- 
spoonful of powdered sugar dissolved in a little 
water. Add juice of Mj a small lemon; 1 pony- 
glassful of Batavia arrack; 1 wiueglassful of 
.Jamaica rum; 1 piece of pineapple. 

Fill with shaved ice, shake thoroughly, and 

embellish with berries in season. Serve with a 

straw. 

Milk Punch 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 teaspoonful of 
fine white sugar; 1 wiueglassful of brandy; Yz 
wineglassful of Santa Cruz rum; small lump 
of ice. 

Fill the glass with milk, shake thoroughly, 
and strain into a large glass. Lastly, grate a 
little nutmeg on top. 

Hot Milk Punch 

Follow directions for milk punch, only omit- 
ting the ice, and using hot milk. 

Manhattan Milk Punch 

Follow the directions for cold milk punch, and 
add 5 drops of aromatic tincture. 

Egg Milk Punch 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 teaspoonful of 
fine white sugar; 1 wineglassful of brandy; Vi 
wineglassful of Santa Cruz rum; 1 egg\ small 
lump of ice. 



«»4 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

Fill the glass with pure fresh milk, shake very 
thoroughly, and strain into a large glass. 

EI Dorado Punch 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 pony of brandy; 
14 pony of Jamaica rum ; 1/0 pony of Bourbon ; 1 
tablespoonful of powdered sugar dissolved in a 
little water, and a slice of lemon. 

Fill the glass with fine ice, shake thoroughly, 
and add berries or small pieces of orange. 
Serve with a straw. 

Claret Punch 

Into a large bar-glass put 1 teaspoonful of 
fine sugar; 1 slice of lemon; 1 slice of orange 
(quartered), and fill the glass ^3 ^^H of shaved 
ice. Fill full with claret, shake thoroughly, and 
add berries in season. Serve with a straw. 

The recipe for a quantity of claret punch is 
given under the title ' ' Imperial Punch. ' ' 

Vanilla Punch 

Into a large bar-glass put 1 tablespoonful of 
sugar; 1 wineglassful of brandy; the juice of 
14 of a lemon. 

Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake thor- 
oughly, add 1 or 2 slices of lemon, and flavor 
with a few drops of vanilla extract. Serve with 
a straw, or glass tube. A delicious beverage. 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 95 



Sauterne Punch 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 teaspoonful of fine 
white sugar; 1 slice of lemon; 1 slice of orange; 
1 piece of pineapple. 

Fill the glass % full with shaved ice, and fill 
full with sauterne. Shake thoroughly, and add 
berries in season. 

Sherry Punch 

Put into a large bar-glass 2 wineglassfuls of 
sherry; 1 teaspoonful of sugar; 1 slice of or- 
ange ; 1 slice of lemon. 

Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake thor- 
oughly, and dress with berries in season. Serve 
with a straw. 

Orgeat Punch 

Pour into a large bar-glass IV2 tablespoonfuls 
of orgeat syrup; ly^ wineglassfuls of brandy; 
juice of 1/0 a lemon. 

Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake thor- 
oughly, and add berries in season, and a dash of 
port wine on top. Serve with a straw. 

Cura^oa Punch 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar dissolved in a little water; 1 
wineglassful of brandy; '4 wineglassful of Ja- 
maica rum; 1/0 pony-glassful of curagoa; the 
juice of I/O a lemon. 

Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake thor- 



96 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

oughly, and add fruits of the season. Serve 
with a straw. 

Roman Punch 

Into a large bar-glass put 1 tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar dissolved in a little water; 1 
tablespoonful of raspberry syrup; 1 teaspoon- 
ful of cura§oa ; 1 wineglassf ul of Jamaica rum ; 
1/2 wineglassful of brand}'; the juice of i/o a 
lemon. 

Fill with shaved ice, shake thoroughly, and 
add a dash of port wine, and fruits in season. 
Serve with a straw. 

St. Charles* Punch 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar dissolved in a little water; 1 
wineglassful of port wine; 1 pony-glassful of 
brandy ; the juice of i/4 of a lemon. 

Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake thor- 
oughly, and deck with fruits in season. Serve 
with a straw. 

Seventh Regiment National Guard Punch 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 teaspoonful of 
powdered sugar dissolved in a little water; the 
juice of Yi of a lemon ; 1 wineglassful of brandy, 
and 1 wineglassful of sherry wine. Flavor with 
raspberry syrup, and fill the glass with shaved 
ice. Shake thoroughly, and dress with pieces of 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 97 

orange, pineapple, and berries in season. Add 
a dash of Jamaica rum, and serve with a straw. \ 

Sixty-ninth Regiment Punch 

Dissolve 1 teasi)oonful of sugar in 1 wine- 
glassful of boiling water; pour into an earthen 
mug; add Y2 wineglassful of Irish whiskey; i/4 
wineglassful of Scotch whiskey; then pour in 
a second wineglassful of boiling water, and add 
a small piece of lemon rind. 

Punch Grassot 

Mix 1 wineglassful of brandy; 1 teaspoonial 
of curaQoa ; 1 drop of acetic acid; 2 teaspoonfuls 
of simple syrup; 1 teaspoonful of strawberry 
syrup; 14 oi a pint of water; 1/0 a small lemon, 
sliced. Add ice, and pour into a large goblet, 
dressing with a slice of peach or apricot in sea- 
son. For an excellent punch for cold weather 
served hot. 

This punch is named for M. Grassot, custo- 
dian of the Palais Koyal in Paris. 

Maraschino Punch 

Pour into a large bar-glass 1 teasi)oonfu' of 
powdered sugar dissolved in a little water; 1 
wineglassful of brandy; 2 dashes of arrack; 1/0 
pony-glassful of maraschino; the juice of 1/2 a 
small lemon. 

Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake thor- 



98 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

oughly, and garnish with fruit and berries in 
season. Serve with a straw. 

Champagne Punch 

Add to 1 quart bottle of champagne 3 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar; 1 orange, sliced; the juice of 
a lemon; 2 slices of pineapple (cut in small 
pieces), and 1 wineglassful of raspberry or 
strawberry sj^rup. Garnish with fruits in sea- 
son, and serve in champagne goblets. 

This recipe makes 1 quart; the usual allow- 
ance being 1 bottle to every four guests. 

See also '' Eocky Mountain Punch " for a 
good champagne punch. 

Mississippi Punch 

Pour into a large bar-glass, 1 wineglassful of 
brandy; i/o wineglassful of Jamaica rum; y^ 
wineglassful of Bourbon whiskey ; 1 tablespoon- 
ful of powdered sugar dissolved in a little 
water, and the juice of ^4 a small lemon. 

Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake thor- 
oughly, and garnish with fruit in season. Serve 
with a straw. 

Wassail Bowl 

The wassail bowl used in ancient days to be 
served specially on Christmas Eve. It was 
brought into the banqueting hall with songs and 
carols, and crowned with garlands. To make 
it, grate i^ a nutmeg, and put it into a saucepan 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 99 



with 1 clove, Vi of an ounce of grated ginger, 1/2 
a small blade of mace, an inch of stick cinna- 
mon, and 2 or 3 coriander and cardamom seeds. 
Pour upon these ingredients 1 teacupful of cold 
water, and let them boil. Then add 2 bottles of 
white wine (not sweet), and % of a pound of re- 
fined sugar. Pour the mixture into a large 
saucepan, and set it on the fire. Break the 
yolks of G, and the whites of 3, eggs into the 
wassail bowl. When the wine is warm, mix 1 
teacupful of it in a bowl with the eggs ; when it 
is a little warmer, add another teacupful, and 
repeat until 5 teacupfuls have been used. Let 
the wine boil, and pour it upon the eggs, stirring 
briskly all the time to froth it. Core, but do not 
pare, 6 apples ; fill the cavity with sugar, roast 
them, and throw them into the bowl. Serve 
very hot. Though sherry or madeira ought 
properly to be used, good raisin wine will make 
an excellent wassail, especially if a tumblerful 
of brandy be added to it. 

Rocky Mountain Punch 

Mix in a large puneli-l)owl 1 quart of Jamaica 
rum; 1 pint of maraschino; 6 lemons, sliced; 
sugar to taste, and place the bowl in a vessel of 
about the same depth, packing the space be- 
tween the bowl and the vessel with ice, and 
sprinkling a little rock-salt over the surface. 



too MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

When the icing has been accomplished, and 
just before serving the punch, add 5 bottles of 
champagne, and slices of orange and lemon. 

The vessel holding the bowl is often fancifully 
decorated. 

This recipe makes enough for twenty guests. 

Strawberry Punch 

On a heaping cupful of granulated sugar 
pour 2 cupfuls of strained, fresh strawberry 
juice. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, then 
add 4 cupfuls of cold water and the juice of 1 
lemon. 

Put on ice until very cold, then stir thor- 
oughly and pour in punch-bowl 

Immediately before serving add y^ cupful of 
fine, whole strawberries, and 1 tablespoonful of 
maraschino. 

Hot Brandy-and-Rum Punch 

Rub 1 pound of white loaf sugar over 4 
lemons until all the yellow part of the skins is 
absorbed, then put the sugar into a punch-bowl, 
add the ingredients well together; pour in 3 
quarts of boiling water, stir thoroughly, and add 
1 quart of Jamaica rum ; 1 quart of cognac, and 
1 teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. 

This recipe should make enough for fifteen 
persons; the usual allowance being 1 quart to 
four persons. A great essential in the making 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS lOJ 

of punch is care to mix the ingredients most 
thoroughly. Results will show the importance 
of this. 

Imperial Brandy Punch 

^lix well in a punch-bowl 1 gallon of water; 
3 ([uarts of brandy; 1 pint of Jamaica rum; 
li/o pounds of white sugar (or more if desired 
very sweet) ; juice of 6 lemons ; 3 oranges sliced ; 
1 pineapple, pared and cut up; 1 gill of cura- 
Qoa; 2 gills of raspberry syrup; ice, and add 
berries in season. 

This makes a fine punch for twenty persons. 

Imperial Punch 

Mix thoroughly in a pitcher holding 1 quart, 
1 bottle of claret ; 1 bottle of soda-water; 4 table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar dissolved in a lit- 
tle of the soda-water ; 14 teaspoonful of grated 
nutmeg; 1 liqueur-glass of maraschino; about 
i/> pound of ice; 3 or 4 slices of cucumber rind. 

Thirty-second Regiment or Victoria Punch 

Steep 6 lemons, sliced, for twenty-four hours 
in 1/2 gallon of brandy and Yj gallon of Jamaica 
rum. After steeping, add 1 pound of white 
sugar; 1-54 quarts of water, and 1 pint of boil- 
ing milk. Mix thoroughly and strain through a 
jelly-bag. 

This punch may be bottled, and afterwards 



J02 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

served either hot or cold. This recipe is for a 
party of twenty. 

Light Guard Punch 

For this punch, follow the directions given 
for '^ Eocky Mountain Punch " as to mixing, 
sweetening, cooling, and serving. 

Ingredients and proportions for a party of 
twenty : 3 bottles of champagne ; 1 bottle of pale 
sherry; 1 bottle of cognac; 1 bottle of sau- 
terne; 1 pineapple, sliced and cut in small 
pieces ; 4 lemons, sliced. 

Philadelphia Fish-House Punch 

Mix together, adding ice, Vg pint of lemon 
juice ; % pound of white sugar dissolved in suf- 
ficient water ; 1/2 pint of cognac brandy ; i/4 pint 
of peach brandy; 14 pi^t of Jamaica rum; 2i/^ 
pints of cold water. 

The Spread-Eagle Punch 

Mix 1 bottle of Islay whiskey; 1 bottle of 
Monongahela; lemon peel, sugar, and — boiling 
water as desired. 

For a social entertainment observe sugges- 
tions made as to boiling water under the head- 
ing ' ' Cold Whiskey Punch. ' ' 

La Patria Punch 

Slice into a bowl 4 oranges and 1 pineapple ; 
pour in 1 bottle of cognac brandy; then add S 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS lOa 

bottles of champagne, iced, and serve immedi- 
ately. Follow directions given under " Rocky 
Mountain Punch " as to icing. This quantity 
is the allowance for ten persons. 

Rochester Punch 

Mix 2 bottles of sparkling catawba ; 2 bottles 
of sparkling Isabella; 1 bottle of sauterne; 2 
wineglassfuls of maraschino; 2 wineglassfuls 
of curacoa. 

Flavor with strawberries in season, or, other- 
wise, a few drops of extract of peach or vanilla. 
Ice in a cooler. This recipe makes a quantity 
sufficient for a small entertainment. 

Non-Such Punch 

For Bottling 

Mix 6 bottles of claret; 6 bottles of soda- 
water; 1 bottle of brandy; 1 bottle of sherry; 
1/2 pint of green tea ; juice of three lemons ; 1/2 
of a pineapple cut up in small pieces. 

Sweeten, strain, and bottle immediately. 
Keep for a month at least, and ice before 
serving. 

Canadian Punch 

Mix 2 quarts of rye whiskey; 1 pint of Ja- 
maica rum; lemons, sliced; 1 pineapple, 
sliced; 4 quarts of water. Sweeten, and ice for 
a small entertainment. 



104 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

Tip-Top Brandy 

Mix thoroughly in a small punch-bowl 1 bot- 
tle of champagne; 2 bottles of soda-water; 1 
liqueur glass of curagoa; 2 tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar; 1 slice of pineapple, cut up. 
Serve iced, in champag^ne goblets. Allowance 
for five persons. 

Bimbo Punch 

Cut 6 lemons into thin slices, and steep in 1 
quart of brandy for six hours. Remove the 
lemons without squeezing. Dissolve 1 pound 
of loaf sugar in 1 quart of boiling water and 
add it while hot to the brandy and 1 gill of ar- 
rack. Let it cool, ice and serve. 

Cold Ruby Punch 

Dissolve 1 pound of loaf sugar in 3 pints of 
green tea; add 1 quart of Batavia arrack; 1 
quart of port wine; juice of 6 lemons; i/o of a 
pineapple cut in small pieces, and ice. 

Imperial Arrack Punch 

Slice 6 lemons, quite thin, and steep for six 
hours in 1 quart of old Batavia arrack. Then 
remove the lemons without squeezing. Dis- 
solve 1 pound of loaf sugar in 1 quart of boil- 
ing water, and add hot to the arrack. Should 
be cooled and thoroughly iced before serving. 

'^kis makes am exeelleut liqueur. Arrack 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 105 



provides a fine flavor for punch, but is rarely 
put to any other use in America. Most of the 
arrack sold in America is imported from Ba- 
tavia. 

Arrack Punch 
Pour together 2 wineglassfuls of Batavia ar- 
rack (old), and 3 wineglassfuls of Jamaica rum, 
and sweeten with loaf sugar dissolved in hot 
water. Add the juice of 2 lemons (or substitute 
limes, if preferred) and an equal quantity of 
water — six glasses. This recij^e furnishes three 
glasses of punch. 

Nuremberg Punch 

Take 2 or 3 oranges and pare some of the 
peel very thin. Press the juice of the oranges 
through muslin into Y_> pound of loaf sugar; 
add the pared peel. Pour on this 1 quart of 
boiling water, and Va quart of Batavia arrack; 
add 1 bottle of French red wine, hot, but not 
boiling, and stir. Sometimes white wine is 
used, but red is preferred. 

This punch is excellent cold, and improves 
with age. 

Soyer's Gin Punch 

Mix i/o pint of old gin ; 1 gill of maraschino ; 
the juice of 2 lemons; the rind of !/> a lemon; 
4 ounces of syrup; 1 quart bottle of German 
seltzer, and ice. 



106 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

United Service Punch 

Take 6 lemons and i/o pound of loaf sugar, 
and with the latter rub off the peel of 4 of the 
lemons. Then dissolve the sugar in 3 pints of 
hot tea, add juice of all the lemons. I/2 pint of 
arrack, and 1 pint of Jamaica rum. Serve cold. 

Pineapple Punch 

Brandy punch, with the addition of sliced 
pineapple, is sometimes called pineapple punch. 
Another way of making it is to mix in a glass 
bowl 2 pineapples, sliced, with i/4 pound of 
sugar, letting it stand until the pineapple has 
thoroughly absorbed the sugar, then add 1 pint 
of Jamaica rum ; 1 pint of brandy ; 1 gill of cura- 
§oa ; juice of four lemons. Sweeten, and again 
let it stand in ice for an hour, then add 4 bottles 
of champagne, sliced orange, and other fruits 
in season. Serve in champagne glasses. This 
recipe will allow enough for ten persons. 

Royal Punch 

Mix together 1 pint of hot green tea ; I/2 pint 
of brandy ; l^ pint of Jamaica rum ; 1 wineglass- 
ful of curagoa ; 1 wineglassf ul of arrack ; juice of 
2 limes; a slice of lemon; white sugar to taste, 
and 1 gill of warm calf 's-foot jelly (or substi- 
tute for the jelly the well-beaten whites of 2 
«ggs). Drink very hot. This makes an excel- 
lent concoction for a small party, but if too 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 107 

strong more tea may be added. The tea coun- 
teracts the intoxicating tendency of the spirits, 
while the jelly softens the effects of other ele- 
ments. 

Century Club Punch 

Mix 1 pint of old Santa Cruz rum; 1 pint of 
old Jamaica rum; 5 pints of water, and add 
lemon juice and sugar to suit the taste. 

English Milk Punch 

For Bottling 

To 2 quarts of water add 1 quart of milk. 
Then mix 1 quart of old Jamaica rum and 2 
quarts of French brandy, and pour the two mix- 
tures together, stirring for a short time. Let 
it stand for an hour, then filter through blotting- 
paper into bottles. If the punch is not clear 
after filtering, add a small portion of isinglass 
to each bottle to clarify. 

This recipe will make six bottles. 

California Milk Punch 

For Bottling 
In a clean demijohn put the following in- 
gredients : The juice of 4 lemons ; the rind of 2 
lemons; I/2 pound of white sugar, dissolved in 
just sufficient hot water; 1 pineapple, peeled, 
sliced, and pounded; G cloves; 20 coriander 
seeds; 1 small stick of cinnamon; 1 pint of 
brandy; 1 pint of Jamaica rum; 1 gill of Ba- 



108 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 



tavia arrack, 1 cupful of strong green tea, and, 
lastly, 1 quart of boiling water; cork, to pre- 
vent evaporation, and steep for six hours or 
more ; then add 1 quart of hot milk, and the juice 
of 2 or more lemons ; mix, and filter through a 
jelly-bag (unless to be served at once). When 
the punch has passed bright, cork tightly in 
bottles. Ice before serving. 

Oxford Punch 

Rub sugar on the rinds of 3 lemons till the 
necessary oil is drawn out. Take 2 more 
lemons and 2 oranges, and cut the peel off fine. 
Add the juice of 6 lemons and 4 sweet oranges, 
and 6 glasses of calf's-foot jelly, and stir the 
whole together thoroughly in a jug. Then add 
2 quarts of boiling water, sweetened with suffi- 
cient sugar ; dissolve, and let it stand for twenty 
minutes. Strain through a fine sieve into a 
large bowl ; add, stirring well, 1 pint of cognac 
brandy; 1 pint of old Jamaica rum; 1 quart of 
orange shrub; I/2 pi^t of sherry; 1 bottle of 
Capillaire. 

A favorite punch with the University stu- 
dents at Oxford. 

Punch h la Romaine 

Dissolve 2 pounds of powdered sugar in the 
juice of 10 lemons and 2 sweet oranges, and 
add the thin rind of 1 orange; strain through 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 109 



a sieve into a bowl, and add gradually the 
whites of 10 eggs beaten to a froth. Place the 
bowl on ice for a while, then stir in briskly 1 
bottle of mm ; 1 bottle of wine. 
This supplies punch for fifteen persons. 

Duke of Norfolk Punch 

For Bottling 
Pare very thin the rinds of 6 lemons and 3 
oranges, and put this with the juice from all 
into a vessel with a close-fitting lid. Pour on 
2 quarts of brandy; 1 quart of white wine; 1 
quart of milk, and add I14 pounds of sugar, al- 
ready dissolved in water. After mixing thor- 
oughlj', cover close for twenty-four hours. 
Then strain clear, and bottle. 

Tea Punch 

Infuse into 1 quart of boiling water 1 ounce 
of best green tea. Heat thoroughly a silver or 
other metal bowl, and place in it i/. pint of good 
brandy ; i/^ pint of rum ; i/t pound of loaf sugar 
dissolved in water, and the juice of 1 large lemon ; 
first obtaining the oil of the lemon peel by rub- 
bing with a few lumps of the sugar. Set the 
contents of the bowl on fire; and while flaming 
pour in the tea gradually, stirring constantly. 
While it still burns, ladle into glasses. The 
punch will not burn so long if a china bowl in- 
stead of metal is used. 



110 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

Gothic Punch 

In 4 bottles of still catawba wine, and 1 
bottle of claret, dissolve 10 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, and add the juice of 3 oranges. After 
mixing in a punch-bowl, set in ice for an hour 
or more, and then add 1 bottle of champagne. 

Punch ^ la Ford 

For Bottling 

Take 3 dozen lemons with smooth rinds, and 
peel the yellow rinds off quite thin with a sharp 
knife, placing in an earthen vessel; add 2 
pounds of loaf sugar, and stir thoroughly for 
nearly half an hour with a flat piece of wood, 
to extract the oil. Pour boiling water on, and 
stir un'.il the sugar is completely dissolved. 
Then cut and squeeze the lemons, straining the 
juice from the pips. Place the pips in a jug 
and pour boiling water upon them to obtain the 
mucilage which surrounds them. Next pour 
1/2 of the lemon juice into the syrup, strain the 
water from the pips, and add it also to the 
syrup, taking care that the syrup is not too 
watery. Add sugar or lemon juice, to suit the 
taste. Lastly add and stir in 1 pint of cognac 
and 1 pint of old Jamaica rum to every 3 quarts 
of the lemonade, and bottle. 

If kept in a cool cellar this punch improves 
by age. 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS IH 



Punch Jelly 

Dissolve 3 ounces of isinglass in Y^ piiit of 
water, boiling; add while hot to 1 quart of 
punch a la Ford, and pour into jelly-moulds, 
leaving undisturbed until the jelly is completely 
set. 

Orange, lemon, or calf's-foot jelly can be 
made into punch jelly, by using punch a la Ford 
in a similar manner, made with less lemon juice. 

Punch jelly is very deceptive, its strength 
not being appreciated when one is partaking 
of it. 

Dry Punch 
For Bottling 

Dissolve ly^ pounds of loaf sugar in sufficient 
water, and mix well with the following ingredi- 
ents: 2 gallons of brandy; 1 gallon of water; i/o 
gallon of strong green tea; 1 pint of Jamaica 
rum; V2 pi^t of curagoa; juice of 6 lemons. 

For straining, etc., follow the directions for 
punch a la Ford, adding more sugar and 
lemon juice, if desired. Bottle, and keep on ice 
for three or four days at least. The longer it 
stands, the better. 

Regent's Punch 

Mix thoroughly in a punch-bowl 1^2 pints of 
strong green tea (hot) ; II/2 pints of lemon juice; 
11/^ pints of Capillaire; 1 pint of Jamaica rum; 



IJ2 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

1 pint of brandy; 1 pint of Batavia arrack; 1 
pint of curagoa; 1 pineapple (sliced), and 2 or- 
anges (sliced). Just before serving, add 1 bot- 
tle of champagne, and ice. 

Nectar Punch 

Cut off the peel of 15 lemons very thin and 
infuse for forty-eight hours with li/4 pints of 
rum. Add to the infusion 2 quarts of cold 
water, 3 more pints of the rum, the juice of the 
lemons, 2 quarts of milk, boiling hot, and 
nutmeg, grated. Let this mixture stand for 
twenty-four hours, closely covered; then add 
214 pounds of sugar, and strain through flannel. 
Then bottle, and it is ready for use. 

Orange Punch 

With 34 of a pound of loaf sugar in 31/^ pints 
of boiling water, infuse the peel of 2 and the 
juice of 4 oranges for half an hour ; strain, and 
add % pint of rum; % pint of brandy; 1/0 pint 
of porter; add more sugar if desired. A 
liqueur-glass of curaQoa, noyau, or maraschino 
will improve the flavor. IV2 pints of either rum 
or brandy maj^ be used instead of taking both. 

Excellent lemon punch is similarly made by 
substituting lemons for oranges. 

Wedding Punch 

In 1 pint of strong brandy rub 6 grains of 
vanilla and 1 grain of ambergris thoroughly 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 113 

with i/o pound of sugar, and add Uj pint of boil- 
ing water. Pour into a corked bottle and let 
it stand for a few hours, shaking occasionally. 
Then add i/o pint of pineapple juice; 1 pint of 
lemon juice, and 1 bottle of claret or port wine; 
filter through flannel, and, lastly, add 1 pint of 
lemon syrup. 

West Indian Punch 
Follow directions for brandy punch, adding 
to each glass a little of the syrup and a small 
piece of preserved ginger. 

Barbadoes Punch 

Follow directions for brandy i)unch, adding 
to each glass 1 teaspoonful of guava jelly. 

Apple Punch 

Slice apples and lemons and lay in alternate 
layers in a china bowl, covering each layer 
thickly with powdered sugar, until the bowl is 
about half filled; then pour a bottle of claret 
over it and let stand six hours. After pouring 
through a muslin bag, it is ready for use. 

Ale Punch 

Mix together 1 quart of mild ale; 1 glass of 
white wine; 1 glass of brandy, and 1 glass of 
Capillaire, with the juice of 1 lemon and a por- 
tion of the peel pared very thin. Add grated 
nutmeg on the top, and a bit of toasted bread. 



JJ4 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

Cider Punch 

Pare very thin the peel of i/^ of 1 lemon ; pour 
upon it yo pint of sherry; add the juice of the 
lemon ; i/4 pound of sugar, and 1 bottle of eider, 
with a little grated nutmeg. Mix thoroughly 
and place on ice. When cold, add 1 glass of 
brandy and a few pieces of cucumber rind. 

Hot English Rum Fh'p 

Heat 1 quart of ale in a saucepan; beat up 4 
raw fresh eggs and 4 ounces of moist sugar; 
add 1 teaspoonful of grated nutmeg (or ginger), 
and 1 gill of old rum, and put it all in a pitcher. 
When the ale is near to a boil, put it into another 
pitcher and pour very gradually into the pitcher 
containing the eggs, etc. ; stirring briskly mean- 
while to prevent the eggs from curdling. 
Finally pour the contents of the two pitchers 
from one to the other until the mixture is as 
smooth as cream. 

This recipe will make 1 quart. 

Hot English Ale Flip 

Follow directions for rum flip, only omitting 
the rum, and the whites of two eggs. 

Sleeper 

Boil 6 cloves and 6 coriander seeds with a bit 
of cinnamon in i/o pint of water. Mix together 
1 gill of old rum; 1 ounce of sugar; the yolks of 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS US 

2 fresh raw eggs, and the juice of 1/2 a lemon; 
whisk them all together, and strain into a 
tumbler. 

White Tiger's Milk 

Mix 1/0 gill of applejack; Vo gill of peach 
brandy; Y2 teaspoonful of aromatic tincture. 
Then pour in, gradually, 1 quart of pure 
fresh milk, stirring constantly till all is well 
mixed, and sprinkle with nutmeg. Sweeten 
with white sugar to taste, and add the white of 
an egg, beaten stiff. The above recipe is suffi- 
cient to make 1 quart. 

In preparing this beverage for a party of 
twenty, use 1 gallon of milk to 1 pint of apple- 
jack, etc. 

Locomotive 

Heat in a thoroughly clean saucepan 1 claret- 
glassful of red burgundy until it boils, then 
pour it gradually upon 1 tablespoonful of genu- 
ine honey, the yolk of 1 fresh raw egg, and 3 
dashes of cura^oa (previously beaten together 
in a mug or pitcher), whisking and stirring the 
materials all the while, in order to prevent the 
egg from curdling. Pour into a large bar-glass, 
add 2 or 3 cloves, and powder a little cinnamon 
on top. 

To make 4 glasses, use 2 ounces of honey; 2 
pony-glassfuls of curacoa ; 1 quart of high red 
burgundy, and a few drops of essence of cloves. 



n6 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

Follow the same directions and pour into 
large heated glasses. 

Sherry and Bitters 

Put 1 dash of bitters into sherry wineglass, 
twisting the glass around until the bitters 
cover the whole surface, and fill with sherry 

wine. 

Sherry and Egg 

Into a small bar-glass pour 1 wineglassful of 

sherry, and into this break 1 fresh egg. 

Sherry and Ice 

Put into a small bar-glass 2 or 3 small lumps 
of ice and fill with the desired quantity of wine. 

Brandy Straight 

Brandy, whiskey, or gin is served " straight " 
by simply putting a piece of ice into a small bar- 
glass and pouring in the desired quantity of 
liquor from the bottle, having a separate glass 
of ice water at hand for a "chaser." 

Pony Brandy 

Pour into a small bar-glass 1 pony-glassful of 
best brandy, and serve with ice water in a sepa- 
rate glass. 

The bartender's way of serving this drink is 
to fill to the brim a pony-glass of brandy, cover 
it with a bar-glass, then press both glasses 
tightly together and turn them over quickly, so 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS MJ 

that the pony-glass will remain upside down in 
the bar-glass, without a drop of the brandy es- 
caping. 

Brandy and Soda 
Put into a large soda-water glass, 1 wineglass- 
ful of brandy, 2 or 3 small lumps of ice, and fill 
with a bottle of plain soda-water. Stone Wall 
is another name for " B. & S." 

Brandy and Ginger Ale 

Put into a large soda-water glass 1 wineglass- 
ful of brandy, 2 or 3 small lumps of ice, and fill 
with Irish ginger ale. 

Split Soda and Brandy 

Put into a bar-glass of mediimi size 1 pony- 
glassful of brandy, 1 small lump of ice, and Vj 
bottle of plain soda-water. 

Rhine Wine and Seltzer Water 

Pour Rhine wine into a large bar-glass until 
half full, then add 2 small lumps of ice, and fill 
with seltzer. 

Shandy Caff 

Fill a large bar-glass, or mug, with half ale 
and half Irish ginger ale. 

This drink came from England, where it is 
made with Bass' ale and ginger ale, half and 
half. 



118 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

Brandy and Gum 

Put in a small bar-glass 2 dashes of gum 
syrup, 1 small lump of ice, and pour desired 
quantity from the brandy bottle. Serve ice 
water in a separate glass. 

Half and Half 

According to the American style, mix together 
half old and half new ale in a stone or metal 
bar-mug. 

"Arf and Arf" 

The English way is to mix porter or stout 
and ale in equal parts, or to suit the taste. The 
caution is familiar, — ' ' Draw it mild, Mary ; the 
ale first." 

Rock and Rye 

Stir well together in a small bar-glass 1 table- 
spoonful of rock-candy syrup, and 1 wineglass- 
ful of rye whiskey. A common remedy for a 
cold. 

Stone Fence 

Put into a large bar-glass 1 wineglassful of 
Bourbon or rye whiskey, 2 or 3 small lumps of 
ice, and fill with sweet cider. 

Absinthe and Water 

Fill an absinthe-glass (made purposely with 
a hole in the bottom) with shaved ice and water. 
Raise this glass about one foot above a large 
bar-glass containing 1 pony-glassful of ab- 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS n9 

siutlie, and allow the desired quantity of water 
to drip into it, 

French Method of Serving Absinthe 

Pour 1 pony-glassful of absinthe into a cham- 
pagne glass standing in a bowl, and let the water 
drip into this from the absinthe glass until a 
very little runs over into the bowl. 

White Plush 

Pour into a small bar-glass the desired quan- 
tity of Bourbon or rye whiskey, and fill the glass 
with fresh milk. 

The following amusing anecdote is quoted 
from the New York Herald: 

" There are some mixed drinks that are 
standbys, and are always popular, such as 
cocktails, punches, and juleps; but every little 
while there will be a new racket sprung on the 
public that will have a great run for a time, and 
then get knocked out by another. About a 
month ago white i)Iush got its start in this way: 
There was a country buyer down from New 
England somewhere, and a party of dry-goods 
men were trying to make it pleasant for him. 
So they took him into a swell barroom down 
town, and were going to open some wine. Same 
old story, you know; get him full as a balloon 
and then work him for a big order. It turned 
out that this countryman was not such a flat as 



J20 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

they thought him. Though he had been swig- 
ging barrels of hard cider and smuggled Canada 
whiskey for the last twenty years, he pleaded 
the temperance business on them ; said he never 
drank, and he guessed he'd just take a glass of 
water if they'd git him one, as he was kinder 
thirsty walkin' round so much. Well, that was 
a set-back for the boys. They knew he had lots 
of money to spend, and he was one of those un- 
approachable chaps that have got to be warmed 
up before you can do anything with them. 

' ' ' Oh, take something, ' they said ; ' take some 
milk.' 

'' ' Well, I guess a glass of milk would go 
sorter good, ' said he. 

" Some one suggested koumiss and told him 
what it was. As they did not have any koumiss 
in the place they gave him some milk and seltzer. 
That's about the same thing. One of the boys 
gave the bartender a wink and he put a dash 
of whiskey in it. The old man did not get on to 
it all. He thought it was the seltzer that fla- 
vored it. The next round the seltzer was left 
out altogether and more whiskey put in. They 
kept on giving it to him until he got pretty well 
set up. It's a very insidious and seductive 
drink. Pretty soon the countrjnnan got funny 
and tipped his glass over on the table. As it 
spread around he said : 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS t2l 



" * Gosh, it looks like white plush, don't it? ' 
" ' So it does,' said the boys. ' Give the 
ofentloman another yard of white plush, here;' 
and the name has stuck to it ever since." 

Boonekamp and Whiskey 

Mix in a small whiskey-glass, in quantities to 
suit the taste, whiskey, Boonekamp bitters, and 
ice water. As an occasional tonic this mixture 
is recommended. 

"Jerry Thomas'" Own Decanter Bitters 

Mix Vj i}Ound of raisins, 2 ounces of cinna- 
mon, 1 ounce of snakeroot, 1 lemon and 1 or- 
ange cut in slices, 1 ounce of cloves, 1 ounce of 
allspice. 

Bottle and fill decanter with Santa Cruz rum, 
refilling with the rum as fast as the bitters is 
used. Serve in a pony-glass. 

Burnt Brandy and Peach 

Burn in a saucer or plate 1 wineglassful of 
cognac and 2 lumps of white sugar. Pour the 
liquid into a small bar-glass containing 2 or 3 
slices of dried peaches. 

This is a popular drink in the Southern 
States, and is used as a cure for diarrhoea. 

Peach and Honey 

Stir well, in a small bar-glass, 1 tablespoon- 
ful of honey, with 1 wineglassful of peach 
brandy. 



i22 MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 

Black Stripe 

Pour into a small bar-glass 1 wineglassful of 
Santa Cruz rum and 1 tablespoonful of mo- 
lasses. 

In warm weather add 1 tablespoonful of 
water, and cool with shaved ice ; in cold weather 
fill the glass with boiling water. Grate a little 
nutmeg on lOp. 

Gin and Pine 

Split frDm the centre of a green pine log 
pieces the size of a lead-pencil, and put 2 ounces 
of the same into a quart decanter filled with gin. 
After the pine has soaked for two hours, the gin 
will be ready to pour into wineglasses. 

Gin and Tansy 

Fill a quart decanter with one-third tansy 
and the balance gin. Pour into a wineglass. 

Gin and Wormwood 

Into a quart decanter put 5 or 6 sprigs of 
wormwood and fill with gin. This is taken in 
a small bar-glass as a sort of bitters, in the 
country, where it is considered a good tonic. 

Sack Posset 

Sir Walter Raleigh's Recipe 
Boil together 1/2 piiit of sherry and 1/2 pint 
of ale, and add gradually 1 quart of boiling 
cream or milk. Sweeten the mixture well, and 



MIXING AND SERVING DRINKS 123 

flavor with grated nutmeg. Put it into a heated 
dish, cover it over, and let it stand by the fire 
two or three hours. — Lady Mallet's recipe: 
Break 18 new-laid eggs into a bowl, and care- 
fully remove the specks. Beat the eggs till 
they are lightly frothed. Boil 1 quart of cold 
and 1 pint of boiled sack (or sherry) with % 
of a i^ound of sugar, and a little grated nutmeg. 
Skim the liquor carefully, and when it has 
boiled a few minutes, stir it off the fire for a 
minute, then add it gradually to the beaten eggs. 
Stir the preparation over a gentle fire till it be- 
gins to thicken, pour it quickly from one vessel 
to another till quite smooth, and then serve. 
— Master Rudstone's recipe: Take 1 quart of 
sherry or brandy, and boil it with i^ of a pint 
of ale and % of a pound of sugar. Skim it 
well, then mix it gradually with the well-beaten 
yolks of 2 and the whites of 1() eggs. Let the 
mixture cool till the eggs thicken, then stir 
in 3 pints of milk or cream which have been 
boiled down to a quart. Pour it quickly from 
one vessel to another till it is quite smooth, and 
then serve. 

Rum and Milk 

Rum and milk, the first thing in the morning 

or else twice a day, is strongly recommended as 

of the greatest service in cases of consumption. 

It is often abnost as efficacious as cod-liver oil. 



124 MIXING AND SERVING DI^NKS 

It may be taken with bread and butter, as a 
meal, at breakfast and tea, if these times are 
preferred by the invalid. The usual quantities 
at each period are 1 tumblerful of rich milk, 
1 tablespoonful of old rum, and a little sugar. 

Spiced Vl/ine 

Make several incisions in the rind of 1 lemon, 
stick cloves in the incisions, and roast the lemon 
by a slow fire. Put small but equal quantities 
of cinnamon, cloves, mace, and allspice into a 
saucepan with y^ a pint of water. Let it boil 
till it is reduced one-half. Boil a bottle of 
port wine; burn a portion of the spirit out of 
it by applying a lighted paper to the sauce- 
pan. Put the roasted lemon and spice into the 
wine, stir it up well, and let it stand near the 
fire for ten minutes. Rub a few knobs of sugar 
on the rind of a lemon, put the sugar into a 
bowl or jug with the juice of !/> a lemon (not 
roasted), pour the wine into it, grate some nut- 
meg into it, sweeten to taste, and serve with the 
lemon and spice floating in it. Oranges are 
sometimes used instead of lemons. 

White-Wine Whey 

Take i/o pint of new milk and dilute it with an 
equal quantity of hot water ; boil both together, 
and while boiling pour in at the moment 2 
wineglassfuls of white wine. A curd will form, 



MBONG AND SERVING DRINKS 125 

which, after the mixture is boiled for two or 
three minutes, will settle at the bottom of the 
saucepan. Strain the whey carefully from the 
curd; it should be perfectly clear. Sugar may 
be added to please the taste. " Warm white- 
wine whey promotes perspiration, and hence it 
is useful in the couunencement of some com- 
plaints ; but taken cold it has a different effect, 
and often in cases of low fever it is an excellent 
beverage; also in the early stages of convales- 
cence it is as safe and sufficient a stimulant as 
can be given." 

White-Wine Negus 

Extract the juice from the peel of a lemon 
by rubbing loaf sugar upon it, or cut the peel 
of a lemon very thin and pound it in a mortar; 
cut 2 lemons into thin slices, add 4 glassfuls of 
calf 's-foot jelly in a liquid state, and small quan- 
tities of cinnamon, mace, cloves, and allspice. 
Put the whole into a jug, pour 1 quart of boil- 
ing water upon it, cover the jug closely, let it 
stand a quarter of an hour, and then add a bot- 
tle of boiling white wine; grate Vj a nutmeg 
into it, stir it well together, and sweeten to taste. 



STORY OF THE WINES 

ORIGIN AND HISTOEY 

The origin of the use of wine undoubtedly 
dates back to the dawn of civilization, although 
historians of the earliest ages fail to give us 
definite data on the subject. At a very remote 
age it was a familiar beverage with the Chi- 
nese, as we glean from their history. Tradition 
tells us that wine was first made by an ingenious 
agriculturist named I-tye during the reign of 
Emperor Yu, over 2000 years b. c. It is 
claimed that I-tye was a descendant of Noah's, 
through his son Shem. It is further claimed 
that Noah himself, being dissatisfied with the 
party formed to build the tower of Babel, sepa- 
rated from them^ and with a number of follow- 
ers travelled eastward and finally entered the 
confines of the Chinese Empire, which he as- 
sisted in founding. Undoubtedly the Chinese 
have developed the products of the vine to as 
large an extent as any one. From China this 
development probably worked its way west- 
ward, reaching India and Persia on its way to 
the later civilizations in Egypt, Greece, and 



STORY OF THE WINES J27 



Rome. According to the Odyssey wine was 
very well known to the Greeks, as it probably 
had been to the central Asians generally. 

The finest wine of the Greeks, as adjudged by 
their connoisseurs, reached them from the 
islands of the Ionian and ^gean seas. The 
climate there was ideal and led to the develop- 
ment of the most delicate vintages. Later, 
in Italy, particularly during the Augustan 
period, the proper maturing of wines was a 
long process, taking twenty years, if need be, 
as the old Romans would have none but ripe 
vintages. Wines obtained their market value, 
as a rule, through the patronage of big people, 
whose simple declaration that certain vintages 
were superb immediately ran up the price and 
ensured the fortune of the vineyard. But 
wines were usually sold at the wine fairs. All 
sorts of things were done to mislead the buyer. 
Free plates of sharply flavored nuts were pro- 
vided, and the customers had their taste dulled 
by eating these. We see that the free lunch 
goes back to antiquity. It was also common to 
deceive by putting out the wines for sale in re- 
ceptacles once filled with high-grade tipple, 
which had the effect of making new wines 
seem old. A strong prejudice existed against 
these practices, and reputable venders did not 
resort to them. 



128 STORY OF THE WINES 

If a wine-grower once got the reputation of 
dealing squarely, he could always get his price. 

Some wines were so costly that they were 
used with water, or mingled with cheaper 
grades, to make the latter more delicate. The 
most favored guest always was given the largest 
helping of this special wine; the host had the 
pouring out, and his liberality was in propor- 
tion to his regard for his guest. 

Large cellars were the exception in the days 
of classic Eome ; people of moderate means had 
no room for them. This caused the institution 
of public cellars where wine could be deposited 
by householders, and also purchased. The gov- 
ernment ran these cellars, thus giving a cer- 
tain prestige to wine-drinking, and also min- 
imizing prices. 

If the common people thus got good wines 
through a paternal government, the aristocracy 
had cellars loaded with wines of the highest 
grade and value. Rarity and delicacy were the 
points insisted on in these cellars, and the value 
of the contents was increased in various ways; 
spicing and perfuming wines was carried to a 
fine art, and often at vast cost, as the materials 
used were frequently expensive and difficult to 
obtain. This fashion of keeping cellars of im- 
mense value reached an extraordinary pitch in 
Greece and Rome. Fortunes were sunk in this 



STORY OF THE WINES 129 



desire for display; nor was it the wine itself 
only that cost, but the glasses from which it 
was drunk. These were cut and carved in the 
most exquisite fashion; and cups of gold and 
silver, besides being beautiful works of art, 
were inlaid with rare stones. Size was a char- 
acteristic of drinking vessels, and they were fre- 
quently given away as marks of special favor. 
Glass was enomiously costly. Even the poorest 
people took pride in the quality of their cups. 
These were usually earthenware or ivory, 
carved. The clay cups were perfumed finely. 
The murrhine was a favorite aristocratic per- 
fumed cup. It was also supi)osed to have the 
virtue of exposing poison put in the wine. It 
was a brilliantly colored vessel, combining 
myriad hues which seemed to intermingle and 
curiously hold the glow of exterior light. 

The value of individual cups depended on 
their having the quality of a broad and close 
veining, and not being either translucent or 
faint in color. The murrhine cui> was originally 
a sacred vessel, but later came into general use 
among very rich people. 

There comes down to us from the Persians 
a legend of the origin of wine which is so 
reasonable that it is quite probable. Abul 
Nasin Mansur, in his " Shahnamah," tells how 
Jemsheed, who was very fond of grapes, had 



J30 STORY OF THE WINES 

caused to be prepared and stored a quantity 
of pure grape juice. Some time later, being 
thirsty, he had brought to him one of the jars, 
meaning to have a refreshing drink. By this 
time, however, the process of fermentation had 
set in, and the juice was not pleasant to his 
taste. Notwithstanding, however, he drank 
heartily, with the natural result — a bad stomach- 
ache. He then concluded his foresight had re- 
sulted in nothing more nor less than a dan- 
gerous liquor, and to prevent any one else mak- 
ing the same mistake he labelled each jar 
'* Poison." It was doubtless necessary for the 
sake of the legend to keep him from destroying 
it. This " Poison " was some time thereafter 
come upon by one of his wives, who wished to 
commit suicide, having lost favor with her lord. 
She drank heartily also, but instead of putting 
out the light of life, it simj^ly kindled the flame 
anew. Her sorrow was forgotten and trans- 
formed into joy. A second drink removed all 
thought of death, made her drunk, but did not 
kill her. AMiat was better, it renewed her youth 
and enabled her again to come into the good 
favor of her lord, and she retained it by her con- 
stant indulgence in the '* Poison " until the sup- 
ply was exhausted. One day her husband, so 
the story goes, discovered that the jars were 
empty, and wrung a confession from the wife, 



STORY OF THE WINES I3J 

wliicli was so full of the effects and joy pro- 
duced that lie had another quantity prepared, 
and wine was discovered. 

MODERN WINES 

It is, however, of the modern wines that this 
article will treat. 

Wine is the fermented juice of the grape, or 
the fruit of the vine. Wines are distinguished 
practically by their color, their hardness or 
softness on the palate, their flavor, and as still 
or effervescent. The differences in the (juality 
of various wines depend upon the various va- 
rieties of vines, the soils in which they grow, 
the exposure of the vineyard, the treatment of 
the grapes, and in the methods used in manu- 
facture. Alcohol forms the leading character 
of all wines. The strong sherries and ports as 
found in the market contain from 16 to 25 per 
cent. Hock, claret, and other light wines con- 
tain about 7 per cent. The principal modern 
wines embrace port, sherry, Bordeaux, Bur- 
gundy, champagne, madeira, Eliine, moselle, To- 
kay, and Marsala. The principal wine-produc- 
ing countries are France, Germany, Si)ain, 
Portugal, Italy, Hungary, Greece, and the 
United States, and it is the aim of this article to 
classify them, so that he who indulges may at 
the same time study and eventually locate his 



J32 STORY OF THE WINES 

favorites, and be able to tell all there is to know 
about them. 

ANALYSIS OF WINES 

The peculiar \dnous flavor of wine, by which 
it is distinguished from all mixtures of ardent 
spirits, is mainly owing to the presence of a 
small portion of the ethereal substance dis- 
covered by Liebig and Pelouze, and designated 
by them oenanthic ether. It is estimated not 
to exceed a forty-thousandth part of the wine. 
It seems to regulate the strength of the flavor 
of wine, or what is called its bouquet; but the 
quality of flavor peculiar to each sort depends 
upon a volatile oil, either present in the juice 
from the first, or engendered during fermenta- 
tion. CEnanthic ether is probably concerned in 
some way with the intoxicating qualities pos- 
sessed by some wines, such as Burgundy, Her- 
mitage, and Amontillado. 

Wine is found on analyzation to contain the 
following properties : sugar, acid, water, tannin, 
bouquet (oenanthic ether), carbonic acid (in all 
sparkling wines), acetic acid, chlorides (of po- 
tassium and sodium), alcohol, gum, gluten, 
aroma, tartrate of potash, sulphate of potash, 
extractive matter, bitartrate of potash, col- 
oring matter. 



STORY OF THE WINES 133 

THE WINES OF FRANCE 

All eyes turn to France when they become in- 
terested in the vine and its products. It pro- 
duces the best, and also the worst, although 
many people consider its worst better than the 
product of any other country. 

The vine is said to have been introduced into 
France by the Phocaeans, between six and seven 
hundred years before the Christian era; prac- 
tically no progress was made, however, until 
the advent of the Romans. During the Middle 
Ages we have no clear and accurate records of 
the advance of the ai-t, except tradition, which, 
of course, cannot be depended upon altogether. 
One fact, however, is indisputable — that France 
owes her position among wine-producing coun- 
tries to the Church, for she was, through her 
ownership of the best vineyards, the most pow- 
erful agent in the preservation and maintenance 
of the science of vinification. The knowledge 
of wines possessed by the *' jolly old monks '* 
was not altogether due to the fact that, as great 
drinkers, they were able to acquire the taste for 
only the best, but was largely due to the fact 
that they made it. They studied every phase 
of the work. They planted the vines and cared 
for them, they carried on experiments, and 
tried in every way to master the art. After a 



134 STORY OF THE WINES 

while their good fortune enabled them to en- 
gage others to do the labor, and in this way was 
the knowledge disseminated. 

THE disco\t;ey of champagne 

The nearest we come to the actual facts is 
the tradition that a Benedictine monk, Father 
Perigon, who died in 1715, is the discoverer 
of champagne. His monastery owned the 
largest and the best situated vineyard in 
France. Father Perigon was at the head of 
the vineyard and looked after all details. He 
was noted for his exact knowledge of the science 
of blending wines, and it was during the 
process of blending that he discovered how 
to make wine effervescent. He also made the 
first real cork stopper, so that we are indebted 
to him for the cork as well as the champagne, 
to saj^ nothing of the long tapering glass from 
which the wine is drunk, which it is claimed 
this " jolly old Dom Perigon " also invented. 

THE PRODUCTION OF CHAMPAGNE 

The champagne country of to-day is no 
longer the ancient Province of Champagne in 
northeastern France, but only the department 
of the Marne, which contains 37,000 acres of 
vineyards, chiefly located in the region about 
Reims, Epernay, Avize, Ay, and Pierry. The 



STORY OF THE WINES 135 

vineyards are all situated within a district 
about twenty miles long, from Reims on the 
north to Vertus on the south, and are generally 
classed as " of the Hill " (montagne) and " of 
the River " (along the Marne). 

This acreage is planted almost exclusively 
with the black grape, although some white 
grapes of extremely delicate bouquet are pro- 
duced on the hillside of Avize. The value of 
the land within this area varies from $400 to 
$4000 per acre, according to the district. 

The distinguishing features of the vineyards 
in the champagne country consist of the closely 
planted vines, about 16,000 stocks to the acre, 
planted two feet apart, and the annual burying 
of the stocks, which develops the s "lall roots 
whilst keeping the grapes near the ground to 
favor their ripening. The labor involved in 
the cultivation is very great, costing between 
$125 and $250 per acre. 

The particular delicacy, freshness, and ele- 
gance of the wines of the champagne country 
are due to the methods employed, the climate, 
the species of grape, and especially to the na- 
ture of the soil. 

THE VINTAGE 

At vintage time the grapes, after being gath- 
ered and sorted, are taken to the press-house. 
There they are examined and only the perfect 



J36 STORY OF THE WINES 

ones are purchased. Tliey are sold by weight. 
When from eight to nine thousand pounds are 
in the press they are immediately pressed so as 
to separate as quickly as possible the juice from 
the pulp, thus preventing the latter from color- 
ing the wine, which would be the case if fer- 
mentation commenced before pressing. 

The result of the first three pressings is the 
^' vin de cuvee," which will produce the spar- 
kling wine; the other pressings produce an in- 
ferior article which develops in the cheaper 
varieties. The new wine is then taken to the 
warehouse. 

There it begins to ferment. Originally a 
sugary liquid, it becomes that other result, acid- 
ulated and alcoholic, called wine. The skin of 
the grape is covered with a bloom containing 
an infinite number of micro-organisms, which 
are carried off in the juice, and turn the natural 
sugar of the fruit into alcohol and carbonic-acid 
gas. The latter goes out through the bung- 
hole. As soon as the weather becomes cold 
these ferments lose their activity and the wine 
becomes clear, and is then separated from its 
lees by racking. 

THE CUVEE 

In the spring comes the most delicate opera- 
tion of all — mixing the wines, or " making the 



STORY OF THE WINES J37 

cuvee," aud this is of course the test of his 
ability. To do this successful!}^ the merchant 
must study both his reserves of previous years 
and the various growths purchased last; he 
should know, if he is a real expert, the particu- 
lar bouquet, delicacy, etc., of each growth, and 
these vary from year to year. The result of 
his study enables hhn to make the combinations 
which produce his " brand." When this proc- 
ess of blending is completed the result is ready 
for the bottle. This takes i)lace in the spring. 
The wine is put, with a quantity of cane sugar, 
into new bottles. They are then corked and 
sent to the cellars. 

FORMING THE SPARKLE 

With the first warmth of spring, the fer- 
ments, which had become dormant during the 
winter months, renew their activity. They de- 
compose the natural sugar still remaining from 
the vintage and transform it, and the cane sugar 
which was added at bottling time, into another 
amount of alcohol and carbonic-acid gas. The 
gas this time has no means of escai)e, and it 
therefore mixes with the liquid, and then we 
have the sparkle. 

The wine, however, is not yet a finished 
product. There are numerous other opera- 
tions. The last fermentation in corked bottles 



J38 STORY OF THE WINES 

generates a deposit which settles on the lower 
side of the bottle and must be removed. This 
takes two operations called ' ' mise sur pointe. ' ' 
and the ' ' disgorgement, ' ' respectively. 

THE MISE SUR POINTE 

The bottles are placed, head down, through an 
inclined plank pierced with holes. Every day 
for at least three months, a specially trained 
cellarman shakes each bottle lightly with a 
wrist movement quick and sharp. The deposit 
slowly descends and collects on the cork. 

THE DISGORGEMENT 

The next trick is to remove the deposit. This 
is accomplished by first placing the bottle, head 
downward, about three inches in a refrigerating 
bath. The cold congeals the deposit in the neck 
of the bottle. Then the bottle is held upright, 
the cork eased, and the carbonic gas inside 
forces out the cork and deposit with a loud 
* ' pop. ' ' The wine is then absolutely clear. 

THE LIQUEURING 

The sugar is now entirely gone, transformed 
into alcohol and carbonic acid. Wine in this 
condition is called " Brut." 

To regulate the taste, liqueur is added, con- 
sisting of sugar candy and wine from the 



STORY OF THE WINES 139 

finest cliamiiagne vineyards immediately after 
disgorging. Then it is known as " Sec." 

The wine is now ready for the final corking 
and shipment. 

Another classification of the champagne is 
according to the sparkle: 

1. Non-mousseux — or non-effervescent. 

2. Cremant — moderately sparkling. 

3. Mousseux — sufficiently effervescent to pro- 
ject the cork with an audible report, and to rise 
gently to the mouth of the bottle. 

. 4. Grand mousseux — strongly effervescent. 

The number of operations, the labor involved, 
and the time required, account thus in a large 
measure for the higher ])rice of champagne over 
other wines of the world. 

Champagne should always be kept on its side. ' 
It should be served as cold as possible. When 
put on ice care should be exercised or the labels 
will come oft', and only what is to be used should 
be cooled, because it detracts from its vitality 
to cool it, and then let it get warm again. It 
may be cooled in a hurry by putting it into a 
freezer with ice packing and turning it a num- 
ber of times. 

The principal brands of champagne, as repre- 
sented on the wine card of one of America's 
greatest hotels, are: G. H. Mumm, Extra Dry; 
Bouche, Vin Brut; Duminy, Extra Dry; Due 



J40 STORY OF THE WINES 

de Montebello, Extra Dry; Dry Monopole (Red 
Top); Monopole (Club dry); Eed Cap Cliau- 
venet; Pink Cap Chauvenet; Moet & Chandon, 
White Seal; Moet & Chandon, Brut Imperial; 
Paul Ruinart, Cuvee Reserve Brut; Pom- 
mery, Sec; Pommery, Brut; Piper Heidsieck, 
Sec ; Ruinart, Vin Brut ; Veuve Clicquot, Yellow 
Label; Veuve Clicquot, Vin Brut; Wachter's 
Royal Charter, Brut. 

A general mistake is the belief that cham- 
pagne is a white wine ; with the exception of the 
Versenay kinds, it is made from dark grapes. 

ChampagTie is not the only famous wine, how- 
ever, which France produces. It is only one of 
the many. The famous Burgundy district has 
given its name to a wine that was once the rival 
of champagne, but not of recent years. 

The district in which Burgundy wines are 
cultivated lies in the Departments of Yonne, 
Cote-d'Or, and Saone-et-Loire, Going south 
from Dijon, on the railway leading to Lyons, 
we leave on the right a chain of hills lying on the 
arc of a circle reaching from Dijon to Chagny. 
There is the world-renowned C6te*d'0r, con- 
taining the vineyards of Romanee-Conti, Clog 
de Vougeot, Romanee la Taehe, Chambertin, 
Richebourg, Musigny, Volnay, Nuits, etc- In 
the estimation of many good judges Burgundy 
is superior to Bordeaux. It possesses a great 



STORY OF THE WINES HI 

delicacy, a charming bouquet, and a delicious 
flavor. 

The best Burgundies, called *' tetes de 
cuvces," are made from selected grapes, taken 
from the best localities and exposures. The 
next class, called '* vins de primeur," approach 
the first very closely; the greatest diliorence 
being in the bouquet. Then come " les bonnes 
cuvees," " les cuvees rondes." The grapes 
in general use are the pineau, the noiren, the 
gamay, the chandenay, and the chasselas. 
The larger the quantity produced by the vines, 
the poorer the quality. The common red wines 
of the Cote-d'Or, made from a mixture of all 
the grapes, are called passetout-grains. The 
Hospital of Beaune, founded in 1443, derives 
its principal revenue from the sale of the wine 
made in its vineyards ; and tlie sale of its wines 
which takes place on the first Sunday in No- 
vember, each year, in a measure fixes the prices 
of the vintage. The place which Burgundy 
wine formerly occupied in society is now taken 
by champagne, and in those parts, for example, 
of Germany, where formerly much Burgundy 
was drunk, now hardly any is found. 

Burgundy should be served at a temperature 
of from 60 to 70 degrees. Great care should be 
exercised in handling so as not to disturb the 
dregs in the bottom of the bottle. Burgundy 



t42 STORY OF THE WINES 

when served usually accompanies the game- 
course. 

The principal brands of Burgundy to be had 
in the markets are : 

Red. — Macon, Macon Vieux, Beaujolais Su- 
perior, Santenay, Pommard, Nuits, Gorton, 
Musigny-Vougeot, Chambertin. 

White. — Chablis Superior, Chablis Moun- 
tonue, Moutrachet Grand Vin Royal, Chateau 
Grillet, Meursault. 

BORDEAUX WIITES 

■ The different districts in the vicinity of Bor- 
deaux, France, are known as: (1) The Medoc. 
(2) The Gra\es. (3) The Sauternes, or 
'MVhite Wine" District. (4) Entre-deux- 
Mers. (5) The St. Emilionais. (6) The Li- 
bournais. (7) The Fronsadais. (8) The 
Bourgeais. (9) The Blayais. 

The wines of Bordeaux are both red and 
white, known as clarets and sauternes respec- 
tively. The principal vines grown are, for the 
red wines, the cabernet, the merlot, and the 
malbec; and for the white wines, the semillon, 
the sauvignon, and the muscatel. 

CLARET 

The process for the vintage of claret is a 
very simple one. The grapes are gathered and 



STORY OF THE WINES 143 

brought to the press-house ; here they are sepa- 
rated from the stalk and placed in vats, where 
they are allowed to ferment for a period of 
from seven to fifteen days. As soon as the 
wine is thus formed, it is drawn off into hogs- 
heads and removed to a light and airy store- 
room. 

The first month the bung is put lightly 
in, and the cask filled up every three or four 
days to replace what has evaporated. The 
second month the bung is put in more firmly, 
and the cask filled every eight days. In six 
months the lees having fallen, the first drawing 
off takes place, and this operation is repeated 
every three months for a year, after which the 
fillings-up cease. In the second and following 
years after the wine has been removed to dark 
cellars, two drawings-off suffice, one in the 
spring, and the other in the autumn, until fer- 
mentation ceases. 

There are a great many varieties of the red 
Bordeaux or claret; the principal brands, how- 
ever, as handled by the best merchants in the 
United States, are: Medoc Superieur, St. 
Julien, St. Emilion, St. Estephe, Pontet-Canet, 
' Chateau Cheval Blanc, Chateau Margaux, Cha- 
teau Montrose, Chateau de Laburthe, Chateau 
Rauzan Segla, Chateau Brune-Cantenac, Cha- 
teau Lafite (Grand Vin), Chateau Lagrange, 



144 STORY OF THE WINES 



Chateau Vin Le Monteil, Chateau Palmer Mar- 
gaux, Chateau Margaux (special), Chateau 
Haut Brion, Chateau Mouton Rothschild. 

Claret should be served at a temperature of 
60 to 70 degrees. Bottles should be haudled 
carefully so as not to disturb the sediment. It is 
served with various courses, but generally with 
the entree or releve, and often with dessert. 

SAUTERNES 

Sauterne is the product of what is known as the 
white-wine-producing district of Bol-deaux. In 
the vintage of the white wine of Bordeaux the 
grapes are gathered almost one by one, and not 
until they have assumed the appearance of rot- 
tenness, or extreme ripeness, so that in fact 
fermentation has commenced before the fruit 
is taken from the plant. The Sauterne grapes 
are white, and of medium size, and yield a must 
which does not lose the whole of the sugar dur- 
ing fermentation, but remains sweet without the 
addition of spirits. On gathering the grapes, it 
is customary for the women to cut off the ber- 
ries with scissors as they ripen. The grapes 
are not put into vats, but are carefully pressed 
and the juice put into hogsheads while the fer- 
mentation completes itself. The first result is 
a very sweet luscious wine, known as the tete, 
which is chiefly sent to Russia, where it brings 



STORY OF THE WINES 145 

enormous prices. The second wine is called 
milieu, being made from grapes that are less 
sweet. It is of a drier character, and is gener- 
ally known as sauterne. 

There is also a third process, in which all the 
remaining grapes are mixed together, called 
queue. In the preparation of the better-class 
wines for the markets of England and America, 
tiie three varieties are generally mixed, in cer- 
tain proportions, so that the sauterne which we 
get is very different from the oily article which 
is in such favor in Russia. The character of 
sauterne may be best described as being, in 
good years, very luscious, and yet very delicate, 
and having that special taste, which, while it 
remains in the mouth, leaves the palate per- 
fectly fresh. Sauterne should when served be 
of a temperature between 60 and 70 degrees. It 
may accompany the oyster course, or according 
as the scoi)e of the v^ine list includes few or 
many kinds, if of the best, may accompany the 
dessert. The finer growths of Sauterne com- 
l)rise the following: Chateau Yquem, Chateau 
de Sur Saluces, Chateau d'Arche, Chateau La- 
tour Blanche, Chateau Loustalade (Dry 
(Iraves), Haut Sauterues, llaut Barsac, Sau- 
ternes, Preignac, Graves. 



J46 STORY OF THE WINES 

THE WINES OF GERMANY 

The famous vineyards of Germanj^ are situ- 
ated along the banks of the Rhine. The intro- 
duction of vine culture in Germany occurred 
during Charlemagne's reign. It is narrated 
that this ruler " observed from his palace at 
Ingleheim how the snow melted and disappeared 
earlier from the Rlidesheim hills than from the 
surrounding country, and his mind being at that 
time occupied with the thoughts of wine, he 
selected this site for a vineyard ; and to-day the 
Eiidesheim-Berg produces wine which is the 
standard by which to judge the others." 

Among the Germans, cleanliness in wine-mak- 
ing is all-important, and this is one of the recom- 
mendations of their product. It is absolutely 
clean. 

RHINE WINE 

The best wines of Germany are grown on the 
banks of the Rhine near Mainz. The Rheingau, 
in which the choicest descriptions are grown, 
lies on the right bank, and the vineyards of 
Hesse lie on the left. 

The wines of the Rheinhessen, or those grown 
on the left bank of the river, are full-bodied and 
of good flavor, the best growths being Lieb- 
fraumilch, Nierstein, Seharlachberg, and Forst, 
and are considered nearly equal to the growths 



STORY OF THE WINES J47 

of the Rlieingau. Among the famous Rhein- 
gau wines are the Johannisberg, Steinberg, 
Rauenthal, Grafenberg, Riidesheim, Marco- 
brnnn, Geisenheimer, Assmansshausen, and 
Rotlicnbcrg. 

Johannisberg is the king of German wines. 
This vineyard is said to have been planted about 
the year 1009, under the direction of Ruthard, 
the xVrehbishop of Mainz, These vineyards 
were destroyed during tlie Thirty Years' War, 
but were replanted in 1722. Hochheimer is the 
product of a comparatively small district on the 
banks of the Main. The name, commonly 
Hock, has been known in England for two hun- 
dred years, and no doubt included originally the 
entire body of Rhine wines. 

The wines of Germany are almost exclusively 
white. The best variety of vine is the Riesling, 
and even this does better in the valley of the 
Rlieingau than anywhere else. Great care is 
bestowed upon the vintage, which takes place as 
late in the year as possible in order to allow 
the graiies to ripen thoroughly. The wine is 
allowed to ferment in casks instead of vats, as 
in most other countries, which accounts for con- 
siderable difference in the price and qualit)'' in 
produce of the same growth and vintage. After 
fermentation the wine is fined and racked into 
vats, which are constantly filled up so that wine 



J48 STORY OF THE WINES 

improves with age. Several years are required 
to get the wine fit for bottling, as there is 
no fixed period at which fermentation is com- 
plete. 

The finer the wine the longer it takes to get it 
into perfect condition for bottling. Great care 
and attention are given it, and it is frequently 
tested, as condition is the greatest difficulty in 
connection with German wines. 

The triangle between the Moselle, the Saar, 
and the Nahe is the next principal wine-pro- 
ducing district of Germany. The vineyards of 
the Moselle, " the bride of the Bhine,'' are the 
oldest in the Empire. The Moselle wines are 
distinguished by a remarkably developed and 
pleasant bouquet, which causes them frequently 
to be preferred, particularly by foreigners, tc 
Rhine wines. 

The Moselle wines are classified as follows: 
Brauneberger, Piesport (also red), Zeltinger, 
Oligsberg, Dusemont, and Berncastler Doctor — 
the latter being so named because on one occa- 
sion a noble knight, having been given up by his 
physicians, insisted upon finishing one more 
flagon, and after having enjoyed it, recovered 
immediately and led his doughty men in many 
a hard-fought fray afterward. 

Rhine wines are to be served at a temperature 
of from 60 to 70 degrees. They are served with 



STORY OF THE WINES 149 

the oysters or with the fish, accordingly as the 
wine programme may be large or small. 

WINES OF HUNGARY 

Hungary still contains productive vineyards, 
but the Tokay, which takes its name from the 
town of that name, is the wine of the district. 
The first Hungarian wines were planted by the 
Emperor Probus, and the Tokay wines were 
known as far back as the fifteenth century ; but 
they did not come into vogue till about the year 
1650, as it wac not until that date that the 
present mode of manufacture was adopted. 
The grapes are gathered only after they have be- 
come dry and sweet, almost like raisins. The 
fruit is gathered sei)arately, and the grapes are 
selected and assorted. They are first put into a 
cask, in the bottom of which holes are bored to 
let that portion of the juice escape which will 
run away without pressure. This forms the 
highest (puility. The grai)es are then squeezed 
for the ordinary wine. The three classes of 
Tokay are known as essentia, aushruch, and 
mdslds, the first-named being the yield of the 
juice taken without pressure. 

Tokay, as made in the royal vineyards of 
Hungary, is one of the finest wines of the world, 
and only the very wealthy and influential can 
all'ord to use it. The genuine first product 



J50 STORY OF THE WINES 

or essentia never appears in the market 
at all. 

Besides the Tokay, Hungary produces some- 
thing like one hundred different brands of wine, 
but there is a great difference of opinion as to 
their quality, and aside from the Tokay, none 
is important enough for sj^ecial mention. 

THE WINES OF PORTUGAL 
POET WIXE 

One hundred and fifty years ago, in a small 
town of Peso da Eegoa, then called Eegua only, 
near the confluence of the Corgo with the Douro, 
lived a single fisherman, in a hut which he had 
himself constructed. When the Oporto "Wine 
Co. was established, their warehouses were 
erected here, and an annual fair for the sale of 
wine was established. 

Peso da Eegoa, the Peso comes from an ad- 
joining village, is now a thriving town, and may 
be considered the Capital of the Alto Douro dis- 
trict (Paiz Vinhateiro de Alto Douro), whence 
are sent to England and elsewhere those wines 
which are here known as port. The wine dis- 
trict is bounded by Villa Eeal on the north, 
Lamego on the south, S. Joao da Pesqueira on 
the east, and Mezaofria on the west. 

The vine is cultivated in Portugal in four 
ways, (1) By being trained round oaks or 



STORY OF THE WINES 151 

poplars de enforcado, as the Romans ubnisque 
adjungere rites. (3) By the terrace system, 
the best as (1) is the most picturesque. (3) 
By bushes in rows, with the intermediate 
ground ploughed. (4) By the trellis or de 
ramada. The first liquor drawn from the lagar, 
or press, the result of the weight of the grapes 
alone, is called Lacryma Christi. After that a 
gang of men jump into the lagar, and dance to 
the sound of the fife and bagpipe. The weather 
is warm, the work is hard; the result is better 
conceived than expressed. 

Of white wines, the best are Muscatel de 
Jesus (the testimony to religious influence in 
this and the Lacryma Christi is extremely touch- 
ing), considered the prince of all; the Dedo de 
Dama, the Ferral Branco, Malvasia (our malm- 
sey), Abelhal, Agudellio, Alvaraca, Donzellinho, 
Folgozao, Gonveio, white Mourisco, Eabo da 
Ovelha, and Promissao. Of the black ports the 
finest is Touriga, and the sweetest Bastardo. 
Of dark ports are Souzjio, the darkest of all, 
Aragonez, Pegudo, besides Tintas, whose names 
are legion. Other wines grown here, or in the 
immediate vicinity, are Alvarilhao, a kind of 
claret, Alicante, Muscatel, Roxo, and Malvasia 
Vermelha. Great quantities of wine are pro- 
duced in the quintas outside the line of demarca- 
tion, and some of these wines are equal to those 



J52 STORY OF THE WINES 

made in the wine district of the Alto Douro 
itself. Ked wines, transformed into French 
clarets at Bordeaux, are exported in large quan- 
tities. A wine from Tarragona, known as 
'^ Spanish Red," or superb Catalan, is sent 
yearly to England, and sold as very full, rich, 
fruity, and tawny port. 

MADEIRA WINES OF POETUGAL 

One hundred years ago madeira was the im- 
portant wine of the American gentleman's 
table. It was introduced into the Island more 
than 200 years ago. The system of cultivation 
is somewhat peculiar. The vines are trained 
over a latticework of cane about four feet 
from the ground, supported on stakes, and 
the vine-dresser can therefore pass underneath 
and kee^D the ground clear of weeds. This has 
much to do with the excellent character of the 
wine. The operation of pressing is done in the 
primitive fashion of throwing the fruits into 
large presses and treading out the juices with 
the naked feet. Madeira wine improves much 
with age, and some may be had from fifty to 
one hundred years old. The choicest kinds are 
Malmsey, Sercial, Bual, and Tinta. The char- 
acteristic flavor of madeira is due to the custom 
of submitting it, shortly after manufacture, to a 
high temperature in specially designed build- 



STORY OF THE WINES J53 

ings, which ripens and mellows it rapidly, and 
prevents ret'ermentation. The temperature at 
which this is done is from 100° to 120° Fahr. 

WINES OF SPAIN 

Sherry, as is well known, is the leading Span- 
ish wine, and while the re})utation of this wine 
is universal, and it is acknowledged to be the 
grandest wine produced by Spain, it is really 
a modern wine, for sherry, as we know it to- 
day, was first made some time during the six- 
teenth century. 

Sherry, so-called from the town of Jerez 
(Xeres) de la Frontera, is produced in Anda- 
lusia. The system of preparing sherry is dif- 
ferent from that followed in the case of most 
other wines. The different stages of making, 
rearing, and preparing sherry for shipment, as 
well as the vintage and various styles assumed 
by the juice after fermentation, are as fol- 
lows: 

When the grapeis are trodden or pressed out, 
the juice, after it has run into large casks, is 
called mosto, and is stored into bodegas (wine 
stores), the produce of each vineyard iu its sep- 
arate lot. The mosto is then left to ferment for 
three or four months, when it is poured off from 
the cask in which it has stood, leaving the lees 
or sediment at the bottom. This operation is 



J54 STORY OF THE WINES 

called '' racking from tlie lees," and what was 
mosto is then called wine. 

DEVELOPMENT 

During the first year or two very extraordi- 
nary changes take place, which are quite unac- 
countable. Wines from the same vineyard, al- 
though subjected to exactly the same treatment, 
develop in different casks totally different char- 
acters. If the research of science could be suc- 
cessfully directed to discover the cause, and 
thus give the means to produce each style of 
wine artificially, the Philosopher's stone would 
indeed be found, and El Dorado realized, but 
the wines of themselves, as they grow two or 
three years old, assume different characters 
and are classed Finos, Amontillados, Olorosos, 
and Bastos. 

FINO 

The most valuable character is called Fino, 
being of a delicate, soft, mellow flavor, and very 
pale in color ; but not more than an average of 
about 10 per cent, of the whole produce of a 
vineyard takes this satisfactory turn. 

AMONTILLADO 

A higher class of development again takes 
place in the Fino, producing Amontillado. This 
is the most valued of all ; it has the character of 



STORY OF THE WINES 155 

Fino, and in addition a charming flavor of its 
own. It is invaluable in blending, to give a 
finer character and life to heavier wine. 

OLOROSO 

This is a full, nutty-flavored development, 
rather deep in color and of stouter character. 
When old it is of great body and dry. 

BASTO 

There is yet an inferior development which is 
called Basto (coarse). In good years, however, 
this unsatisfactory character is only shown in 
small quantities, nor does it ever take place to a 
great extent in wines from the best vineyards. 

THE COMPOSITION OF SOLERAS 

The word solera signifies " foundation," and 
in this application means old wine kept in casks, 
which are never moved so long as they remain 
as a solera, and on the foundation of which 
younger wines are reared. 

"When wines have assumed their distinctive 
characters, and are about five years old, they 
are used for refreshing older wines in the 
soleras. In the shipper's bodegas many soleras 
are kept, each containing a given number of 
butts, whether Fino, Amontillado, Oloroso, or 
otherwise. Each has its distinctive quality. 



'56 STORY OF THE WINES 

They have been reared and nursed for years 
with great care, being critically tasted from 
time to time, and should any deterioration in a 
cask be found, it is at once rejected from the 
solera. By this means the quality is always 
kept up to a standard. 

EEPLENISHING 

When a solera is diminished by shipments, or 
from being used for blending purposes, the 
upper casks are filled up with a younger but 
quite matured wine of similar growth, which, 
after a certain time, assumes the character of 
the older, into which it has gradually fallen. 
Of course this process requires the utmost skill, 
for, if carelessly done, a whole solera, the result 
of many years' nursing, may be spoiled. 

The system of soleras is likewise carried out 
with other wines grown at Jerez and its vicinity, 
which are either shipped pure by themselves, or 
they are blended in different proportions with 
others, namely : 

Manzanilla, a light wine, grown principally 
at San Lucar, and highly recommended by phy- 
sicians on account of the absence in it of all 
sweet matter. 

Montilla, a very dry but powerful wine 
grown near to Cordova, which, when old, is of 
great value. 



STORY OF THE WINES J57 

Vino Dulce (sweet wine), made from the 
sweeter kind of grape called Pedro Ximenez. 
The grapes, when picked, are exposed to the 
sun till they become* almost raisins, and then 
go through the process of pressing and fer- 
mentation. Soleras of Vino Dulce are of a 
sweet, luscious flavor, and of an oily and 
slightly glutinous consistency. The finer kinds 
resemble a liqueur and are of very great 
value. 

Vino de Color (color wine). Each butt is 
made of six butts of unfermented mosto sim- 
mered down into one, over a slow heat, and 
afterward blended in certain proportions with 
fully fermented white wine. With great age 
this wine becomes very valuable, and is of a 
deep brown color. 

These last two wines are principally used to 
give richness, softness, and color to paler and 
drier growths, when so required, and it is by 
them that the gold-colored and brown sherries 
are produced, which for so long a time have 
been largely consumed at the dinner tables of 
the wealthy in England. 

From what has been said, it will be seen that 
a solera is a mixture of wines of similar growths 
but of dilTerent ages. No foreign substance 
such as spirit is added, and it is called 
** natural " because all its components are ob- 



J58 STORY OF THE WINES 

tained in the ordinary process of natural fer- 
mentation. 

The principal names of brands of sherries 
prepared for the market are: Pale Sherry, 
Table Sherry (dry), Vino de Pasto (medium 
dry), Montesa Pale (full-bodied), Jerezano 
(full-bodied, fruity), Montilla (very dry, pale), 
Manzanilla (very dry, light), Amoroso (mellow, 
fruity), Amontillado (soft, dry, delicate), 
Oloroso (nutty, rich, mellow), Amontillado Pa- 
sado (old, soft, dry), Oloroso Solera (old, rich, 
nutty), Pedro Ximenez (liqueur wine). Musca- 
tel (liqueur wine,) Eoyal Amontillado (very 
old), Napoleonis Solera, vintage of 1796. 

THE WIXES OF ITALY 

From the standpoint of quantity, though not 
of quality, Italy outranks France in the pro- 
duction of wine. The methods and attention 
are crude, owing to the natural indolence of 
the residents of ** Sunny Italy." The grapes 
are gathered indiscriminately, often before they 
are ripe, and the quality of the wine is also 
often damaged by gross inattention and un- 
clean methods. There can be no doubt that 
with more care and attention the wines of Italy 
would hold a much higher position than they do 
at present. The best-known wines of northern 
Italy are those of Montferrat and Asti. They 



STORY OF THE WINES J59 

are generally light in color, and difficult to keep. 
Some of them are very good. Sparkling wines 
are also produced. 

In central Italy the best wines are those of 
Montepulciano, Chianti, Pomino, Montalcino, 
and Carmignano. Those of Montepulciano have 
a brilliant purple color and luscious flavor, 
somewhat sharp and astringent. Those of 
Chianti are red, sweet, but not so aromatic. 

The choicest wines of Italy are produced in 
the Neapolitan district. Of these the best 
known is the Lacryma Christi, a red wine of 
good bouquet and elegant taste; several de- 
scriptions of good Muscat wine, and also a 
Malvoisie. These are grown on the slopes of 
Mount Vesuvius. 

The principal wine produced in Sicily is the 
Marsala. It is a good deal like madeira, with a 
good bouquet, and improves with age. It is the 
result of a mixture of several kinds of selected 
grapes, of the madeira variety. The method 
used in the production of Marsala, as in other 
strong wines, consists in the addition of spirits. 

THE WINES OF AMERICA 

The cultivation of the vine has progressed 
rapidly in the United States in recent years, to 
such an extent that the American product is 
rapidly replacing many foreign varieties. The 



160 STORY OF THE WINES 

soil of the Pacific Slope seems best for the 
growths, where the vines were first introduced 
by the Franciscan fathers. Here again we find 
the Church responsible for an industry which 
seems destined to become one of the leading 
industries of California. The first variety of 
grape introduced was the " Mission " grape, 
and is supposed to have come from Mexico. 
Later on the chief varieties of French, German, 
and Spanish were imported, and the tendency 
in America to study the business, and the care 
that is displayed, have had much to do with the 
success of these experiments. The rapid 
spread of technical knowledge is overcoming 
rapidly the principal difficulties in connection 
with the American growths of European va- 
rieties, the princii3al defects having been the 
coarseness of the various types. 

California is not, however, alone among the 
States in the production of wine. Ohio, along 
the shores of Lake Erie and the Ohio River, 
produces extensively. Champagnes are pro- 
duced in the neighborhood of Sandusky and 
Cleveland which are very good, and the ' ' spar- 
kling Catawba ' ' of Nicholas Longworth is pro- 
duced in considerable quantities. New York, 
Missouri, Illinois, and Pennsylvania produce 
large quantities of native wines. In the Eastern 
and Middle States the principal grapes are the 



STORY OF THE WINES I6J 

Catawba and Ives seedling, while in the South, 
the Virginia seedling and the Scuppernong 
grapes are the favorites. The grapes in these 
regions resemble those of Germany and France, 
containing, however, more acid and ilavor, 
while those of the Pacific coast are milder and 
sweeter, and resemble more nearly those of 
Spain. 

The names of the principal American wines 
are: Claret, Zinfandel, Burgundy, Hock, Ries- 
ling, Angelica, Cabernet, Sweet Catawba, 
Sparkling Catawba, Escapernong, Virginia 
Dare, Tokay, and Muscatel. 

MODERN WINES OF GREECE 

The climate of Greece is especially well 
adapted to the cultivation of the vine. It has 
the side hills on which the vine prospers so 
well. It has a mild climate, which, while 
sunshiny all the year, is so invigorating 
that its various growths come to full develop- 
ment. 

The modern Greek wines imported into the 
United States are: 

Morea — vintage of 1881. A red table wine, 
tart, from the district of Patras, superior in 
quality, and very pleasant. 

Camcritc — vintage of 1878. A very dry, red 
wine, from the island of Santorin, containing a 



162 STORY OF THE WINES 



large percentage of tannin, and therefore 
abounding in medicinal qualities. 

Achaier — ^vintage of 1880. A medicinal 
sherry from the district of Patras, containing 
only a small amount of alcohol. 

Mavrodaphne — vintage of 1878. This is the 
leading wine of Greece. It contains but 13 per 
cent, of alcohol. 

Gold Malvasiev — vintage of 1884. This is a 
quite sweet dessert wine from Patras, of won- 
derful aroma and piquant taste. 

Nectar — vintage of 1882. A dark red, sweet, 
and light children's wiuo from Cephalonia. 

Red Malmsey — vintage of 1875. Is a dark 
red, heavy, sweet port wine from Patras. This 
is the old classical Malmsey, as used in the 
Church of England. 

Gold Malmsey — vintage of 1870. A heavy, 
excellent white dessert wine from Patras. 

Fine Muscato — vintage of 1865. White des- 
sert wine from Cephalonia. One of the best to 
be had. 

Cognac — vintage of 1870. Is produced in 
Patras, from pure wine, is mild and pleasant. 



STORY OF THE WINES 



163 











a 


"3 

a 


r3 

i t 










i 


a 

3 




a 








9 


S i? 












c 




OQ 
O 

a 

a 

» 




-a 

at 


a 
1 

"3 


a 
3 

a 


1 1 
il 


in 

a 

3 


"3 


<u 

a 


U 




I 

"S 


1 

a 




s 


a 

s 


73 

a 


a 
a 


E:-t-5|3 


S 

3 

to 


s 
c 
a 






a 

1 

-3 

fl 


a 

3 


•0 

Si 

a 


as 
3 

a- 

0) 

gf 
a 






is 


H 


o> 


>- 


a 


li^ 


Ch 


a 


13 


hq 






■3 ^ 




ki 

03 

a 


>. 

"3 

s 
c 

eT 
to 

0) 

11 

> 

a 
"3 

3_:i 

r 2 


•s 1 


a 
3 

-3 





Is 

fe a 


a 

■ 


2t:-'s.2 








S o 




V 


V 


.*^ 


c — 


>,o 


a .^ ♦* 


H 




X 

a 
■J 

o 

n 


c3 
a 35 
— ^ 

IS 

g 

^:: 

t- 

•c a 
Jl 

a 2 
53 


3 © 

2j 

y a 
2 > 

" a 
»- a, 

»^ 




fl 

a 
c 

a 

?•' 


rdinary quantity, quality 

the average. 

reat abundance, and good q 


a 

-a 


s> 

<u 
be 

C3 

a 
"3 


Qiall quantity; quality sa 
tory. 

iiall quantity in the best gr 
half an average for oid 


wines ; very good in qualit 

elieient iu quantity and p 

quality. 

bout half an average crop 

gards medium and ord 

wines, and very small quai 

choice growths securea : p 


quality. 

ood quantity, and quality e 

iiigly good. 






< 


l-H 


Q 


>H 





n 


OQ 


CO 


Q 


< 









!>, 


►. 












_>% 













-a 


fl4 


V 




n -3 






"o! 




fl 














0. 




•^ bo 






a 




OS 








.a 


C 
an 


£ 


>. 


1 § 






« 




bO 






H 

O 

■< 

n 


bo 

CO* 

« 
(3 

"S 
.2 


vintage, as regard 
quantity, 
ary vintage in both 


"3 

a 
a* 

•0 

c« 

,0 

"S 

ta 

3 


ful, very full-bodied 
rersally shipped, 
lant, lighter than f 
vcrv useful. 


"3 

9 

-3 

cd 

a 
2 


a 

<d 
3 

a" 

-3 

a 

c 

a 

3 


a 

3 

a 
bo 


>4 

a 


■"S oj 

^'§ 

>-fl 

<" s 

•a a 

2 ^ 

'1 
• 


iS 

as 
3 

o* 
13 
a 

a 

fl 

as 

n 








■3 5 


a 
■3 


"3 

a 


a a 5 3 

2. ^Z-^ 


a* 
'3 


c 
.ft 

e4 


^ a, 


-a 


■3 






H 


(H 





CQ 


Oh < 


Ph 


^ 


h^l 


n 





iS 




M 





^ 


d 


m 


-«< 1(5 


CO 


t- 


00 












•^ 


r- 


t- 


t~ 


t~ 


►- t~ 


t~ 


t^ 


t^ 


t« 




s 

-" 




e 


00 


00 


00 


oo 


OO 00 


CO 


00 


00 


OO 



»64 



Sf CJR.V OF THE WINES 



•ts a 



s .s 



c < 



§3 



(-1 . "^ & 

CSS °S G 



.2-3=3 3 



.2 o > 



.2 a 



1>^ 

S^ 



60 » 
3 rs 



. r1 2 c3 

t^ S 3 .3 
<1 « 



« O 



£5 






to >^ 
cs S o 



oi.t; 

CTiO 

"a 



54-1 _0 

w 



•^ bo 



o c >v 

O C3 -t> 
6Cm '^ 

---2 a 

I^ O '•^ 

H O S 
3 O eS 

|tca 



s 2 « 

... ty a 
!^ i2 'S 



53 t, r- 



I'^'-S- a 

■«1 CQ D3 



- 03 



^ <B a 



J1 Q P 



^ a 






g ? ^ o " o a 
£ p, a c -H =: « 

arsl" " " o 
-a o s .15 ;^,:^; -2 

15 ^ _- rt — r3 o 

g o 3 a '3 a »- 
•< >^ jS 



a CD X 

-w ^ a 

a oQ o 

^ o^ 

6ca S 

£-2 oi 
S'-a.S' 






j^.2 'S 

5 c8 "rt 



01 5j 



a fe £ a 

tM <1^ ^ 0) 

a "S -a ^ c 



m ^ c« 
*> © <D 



cc cq 



, © be ., ja - 

« -. r- ® 

(^ 5 •£- -« " 



a to 



© 

•- a 

O _ 00 

^5a 

•3 ^c 



5 '"' *M 

13 ."^ • © 

e ©-B CO 

-r* <u a 

^ "x a- - 
S-cS a 

o t>-,~ 
01 K,_r> r1 - 



-^ ? c- .y 



-a t-» O 

(3 O 



S5 fm 



a" 
.2 .a 
"S. «> 

£■■5 



S a *^ 

03 a © 

© -- ->^ t, 

15 ® ;a o3 

© -^ X "^ 

) S --H g O 

Ti c a © 



<T> 



STORY OF THE WINES 



J65 



2.2 a 

= S . « 

O > X fcl 

H <u o 

c;3 .t; 

^ 0-30 
S a £ "'■^ 






o .S 

CO [J 

•t; cs IS 
§ <u o 



0) o 

h> CD 

o p 



••3 « — 



© = = 

ia.2 



OS .3 

fc is 

'is 
a J 

a 



o 

? X 

c -^ 

p-a 



tc 



T S. a 'c T 



O 



a 


"tc 




•fH 




■ ' 


CD 


u 






a 


^ 


is 


IH 


^'.a 


(0 




2 "> 


•2 fc;. 


5 ^ 


., OS 


<3'S 


?& 


•c --J 


E.i: 




" a 



^ ^ Qi *=';3 



3 .2 -2 .2 o 



es^ rS 



ll -si 



08 > *^ 
3 ^ 05 



2 « 

41 



OQ 



^■^ ? 

» a tf 

to u "^ 

^ a a 

.::; o 



'3 . 



C3 - 00 O ^ 

S bo-r' ►- a 






1-1 ja 



fcCT3 ^ _ 



■3 fii 



0-5 — 



A a o S 



.25 2. -c 

cT-S a >. 

o ^ £ s a 

o T t. s S 

to r-i^' p< 2. 

b ^'5 >> - 



a Pk 



^ s 



to 5.ii 



•o^- 



li 



4H i' iS'S Cj 



as 
a Ej 



I'S 



^1 

a a 
a^ 



|g.| 



00 -^ 



C 0} 



2 <u 

a '3.- 
to O c*. 

3 



go 



to ='2 

a =1 2 



■^^ 



O > « rg 

•2 m S § 
u c3 2 O 
ts " a tc 

- a J «« 

^ O. - O 



-H a 



'^ ^' 



•ff >■' "rt " 

-— a <i> 
2 2 " o 



^ 



166 



STORY OF THE WINES 



W tE QQ 

-a i a 
o s n 

;s '^ 

•2'3M 
to -3 

-^ s >< 

t3 o '^ 



a'S 



00 r- 

« s 

o b 



o 



■"S "tj '3 '" 

ui;-- — » o 

s a 5 a ^ 

>- s o ^ :3 

•2 ® s "2 ^^ 

i _ s- " - 3 

■ ^^5 S 0) ,S ^ 



•S ?> 



'H ^ 



O 0) s _ 
^ = c o 

■C '? -S =" 









"^ JS cs 00 Li S 

9 = •- o " 



O >■ 5 00 3 o 



O J^ S.3 



^ 



o c > >>- 



•; ^1 "B -3 j; 

- o C rs « 



o p-r^ 



<" a - S '- .5 



!^ P? Ph 



«^ 






>> >» 



<SrS 



-"S .2 



^ 



a a 



a a 

^ >> 

'3 '3 



<D rr" 



^ i fl 00 

»s 3 ^'^ s a 

fl . -2 §S2-2 

23 O 05 ^ <I> a OS 

oa tc g o ^=s a 



to® 

ga 






,3 >^ 



o bl S 



£ C t£ 

^ tc 5 

'? ^ >. 

^ - u 



^ b 



° a 



S ° O 

>>S a 



5 i 



«r -a 



!— o a ^_ 






a 

CC >> ^-^ -rl ?; r- (D 

ft 



a 



a, 



o m3 



a 00 



.1^ OS 
00 



» = ai 
^* o _ 

O C£ P 3 

CI. in OJ 
~-»^ 03 '^ 
« "tC ^o 



2 <i> c — — 






a.c.3 



^ P3 



►>• CO 



to U CD f* 



« " u 



a •- 00 
^ > a 

5 * 

'C --1 to 

tcc-s 
<u - .a . 
I. ?r 00 
/- *— « ® o 

"^S a s 
- *^ o 

_= c —■"•a 






53 c^ 



u .r3 

— , a. " 
,a.2'M 

00 a} ^H 

a^ o 

o « 

3 ^ --d 

ID i: a. 

— 5d •- £* 

Q p. O GO 



-H C« 



STORY OF THE WINES 



167 



fid o 



r-2 * fc 



^- 2 



c?> 



^ ^ dj 



-3 a 



00 S ~ .= -3 



>> 2~ 






--.-■■ s 3 E. -«' 



Ci -T 



>. 2 



OS a 



■5 _- a -r s 



0) a 03 



S '^— 

a o 5 

5 3 









a _ 

1= - 

° ^ -i 
*r on a 
~ u a 

a* 'S 

--^ ^ S 
:a-3 S §• 
t£ a, a Q. 

►^ 02 



be 






=5.2 '3= 



c-o 



88 



S s <d 



ft? 



a Qi 
.a u 



to .tS 



23 a ^ 



11 



S3 



i" 53 



0"es 

a 



£f £f := 



'3 '' a 'l 



^ •- 



55 -a 



U) >-. 



"3 :a a 



.5 « <=< 



ti"3 a c3"r ai:a 5* 



tS <=" 



— 1^^ 



'-a "S o "^ 



!H "a."" "-0 . * 
'^ '? >i "a a 

5 "3 "H ® 
i a £.2 
^ - a o* 5 'C 
t> Z O -sj 






OQ ^ 



(U'3 

J 9 



.. a 

60® 

aii 



5° «■ 
05 « a 

5-3 "> 



^•^ r> tt tP 



a u 
■g5 



S bo 



^3 « 



■ aj ^ 



Boo 



a tc 



a a o 



fc- i -a" 
Bf-n-S a 

2H| § 

— 4)-a a 

"S-- 2 "^ 
a a 



^ a 



(4 



., V » 



^-5'^ 



;-S « 



a-^ — * 5 ^ 

•*» J3 a «a o '3 ■ 

O n O ST) 8 . 

S?; OQ in 



■3 a oi 



as ic . 

S f, 2 

•3 MT3 a 

a u 3> 1 

> ..a o. o 



OS 

a 

2 i 1 

5 .- S 

o* tp "_ 

3 s" 

a « 

- ^ S 

li O) 

•^ '3 



K^ 'r- »5 



O i= 

a ^- 
a . to 



« a K .- tJ 



•?a 



,a o) 
a> 

O) 

§,» 



• 'O'-i -5 <= -i" ^'^ ~ 2^3 

>«2<i)a 5'3SS^ ^2 = 



* a. 
:235 



S o> 



T68 



STORY OF THE WINES 



^.9 
.§3 



® 1) -^ 

o .-^ '"J 
^ '^ ^ a 

■r ic'o " I* 
go S o 









""is- 



5-^ 



-2 '='0 a 
g S« !2 



-Q Oj t;-^ . ^ H 00 CD 

> S Pm 



.£) bo 



r? 
> 



^ 13 



•So 

fc o 

§2 



2-^ 

"gj o 



00 ;:^ --2 (D 

... ^^C^*) c 5 .id 

=w g .15 ES -S §:^ 3 

o c? < 



C^ ^ c8 DO . 

»^ S-t O .*^ 

"Sri — <~ to o fci 

"q."^ .2 ® 
ic.S -3 *» 

■§<= s^ 



bC|3 



P? 



■^ 'Si 



2 



c3 _>> 

OSg 

iz; 



?„>.:=: 



Pm 






;3 c* 



!>^ >i 



.2 d K S 

j3 J-i O od 

bc-O o '7! <u 

be 2^-*^ <o 

S 2 !:1 ^ S 
° o 2 9 

.a a o-fo a 

'~' "t| cs -< a 
_2 .:3 C? g I> 



>> .2 



3 ft 
«3 



14-1 a 
-« ... 

30 CT" 



rri 


so 




"^ c= 


a 


ft 






a 


ft 




O) 


a 




. 


n1 


Si 


h 




bo 


^ 


tS 


•43 

a 


o 




r3 


0) 


n 


^-, 




a 


p-> 


a* 




y 


nl 


^^ 


"^ 


s 


GO 


r-t 


tS 


a 


> 


ft 


a 



2 c3 n 
5 o 

>; '^ 

bc^bc.^ 

B a ... 00 cs 
S a <u a 

^«> a c 5=^ 

t^ <D .,-1 S "^ 



^«a 

1- a bo 

Pop 



C'3 



S >>.r: 



.^ be oj 

•j3 a i> 

3 o p^ 



be o) 

s a 



sa 

^ cc '.a 

2 bo 
<sS a 
>3 



a-= 






be 


_; 




u 


oj 


00 

o 


t> 


O 


.a 


<1 







xt .2 § 

.9#9t 

0-2 tS ft 

o a »•§ 

a o.^ 
00 fe ,^ ^ 
cs£ >>o 

2 "a '•§ t>> 

§ ^ ^"s 

<i> S ^ • 

C P ^ eS 

s-g S-s a 
1^ a o^ > 



STORY OF THE WINES 169 

BRANDY 

The soil of the Charente slope in France is 
particularly adapted to the growth of the vine, 
although, as in all vine-growing countries, some 
districts, and even small patches of land, pro- 
duce finer wine than others. The grapes are 
white, not larger than good-sized currants, and 
the vines seldom bear fruit until four or five 
years from their planting, and are most vig- 
orous at the age of from ten to thirty years. 
Many bear well up to fifty and seventy, and 
some are fruitful at one hundred years or 
more. As a rule the large firms do not distil 
the brandy they sell, but leave that opera- 
tion to the small farmers round about, and 
then blend their products; as, to produce the 
quantity they sell, enormous distilling space 
would be necessary, wine only producing one- 
eighth or one-tenth of alcohol to its bulk. The 
farmer's distillery is very primitive; merely 
a simple boiler with a head or receiver, and a 
worm surrounded with cold water. There are 
generally two of these stills at work, and when 
once the farmer commences making his brandy, 
he keeps on day and night, bivouacking near 
the stills, until he has converted all his wine 
into crude spirit as colorless as water, which 
lie carts off, just as it is, to the brandy factory 



J70 STORY OF THE WINES 

for sale. There it is tasted, measured, and put 
into new casks of oak, hooped round with chest- 
nut wood. These casks are branded with the 
date, together with the quality and place of 
growth of the wine from which the brandy was 
distilled, and they remain some time in stock 
before their contents are blended in proportions 
which the firm deem suitable. 

This new spirit is housed on a floor over large 
vats, which are filled from selected casks, the 
spirit being filtered through flannel disks on its 
way. It is then drawn off into casks, which are 
bunged up and stored for several years that the 
brandy may mature, and that the fusel oil may 
develop into the ethyls, which give such a fine 
flavor and fragrance to the brandy. 

SCOTCH WHISKEY 

Scotch whiskey, properly so-called, is all 
made from malted barley through old-fashioned 
pot stills. The product varies, the whiskeys 
being divided into three great classes : 

1. The North Highland Distilleries, of which 
those in Glenlivet and Speyside are the favor- 
ites. The distinguishing characteristic of the 
whiskeys from these distilleries is lightness and 
delicacy of flavor. Ten years ago there were 
only about twenty distilleries in this district, 
but so Dopular have these whiskeys become that 



STORY OF THE WINES I7J 



about thirty more have been or are being 
built. 

2. The West Highland Group comprises 
about ten distilleries in Islay, and twenty in 
Campbeltown. All the whiskeys from these dis- 
tilleries have plenty of flavor, the Islay being 
the fatter kind. 

3. The Lowland Distilleries being more scat- 
tered, their products vary more in flavor and 
style, but they taste less of the peat with which 
the malt is dried- as in all Scotch distilleries. 

AMERICAN WHISKEY 
(Extract from the Dispensatory of the United States) 
Properties. — Whiskey, when recently pre- 
pared, is nearly colorless; but when kept in 
casks it gradually acquires a brownish color, 
which deepens with time; and hence it may be 
found of various shades, from a slight yellowish 
brown tint to the dark brown of brandy. Its 
taste and smell, when mellow by age, though pe- 
culiar, are not disagreeable. According to the 
pharmacopoeia, whiskey is *' an amber-colored 
liquid, having a distinctive odor and taste, and a 
slightly acid reaction. Its specific gravity 
should not be more than 0.930, nor less than 
0.917, corresponding, approximately, to an al- 
coholic strength of 44 to 50 per cent, by weight, 
or 50 to 58 per cent, by volume." 



J72 STORY OF THE WINES 

Whiskey is a splendid alcoholic stimulant, 
which differs therapeutically from brandy in its 
having less tendency to cause constipation. 
Owing to its cheapness and its customary 
purity, it is usually preferable to brandy as a 
medicinal agent. It is also used as an anti- 
septic. 

LIQUEURS AND BITTERS 

Fine liqueurs are made by macerating aro- 
matic bodies and subsequent distillation; bit- 
ters are made by maceration, followed by 
straining. The most highly esteemed liqueurs 
are: Chartreuse, Curagoa, Maraschino, Kiim- 
mel, Benedictine, Cherry Brandy, Creme de 
Vanille, Creme de Coco, Creme de Eose, Creme 
de Menthe, Kirschwasser, Absinthe, and Ver- 
mouth. 

Chartreuse, the most famous of all, and so- 
called because it is made at the famous Car- 
thusian Monastery near Grenoble, is of three 
kinds: green, yellow, and white. It is a very 
complex product resulting from the maceration 
and distillation of balm leaves and tops, with 
orange peel, dry hyssop tops, peppermint, 
wormwood, angelica seed and root, cinnamon, 
mace, cloves, tonquin beans, and cardamom. 

Cur ago a, which is a simple liqueur, is made 
chiefly from the dried peel of the CuraQoa or- 



STORY OF THE WINES 173 

ange, by maceration and distillation as in other 
liqueurs. About 1 per cent, of Jamaica rum 
is added to improve the flavor. 

Maraschino is prepared from a variety of 
cherry — the marasca — peculiar to the Dalma- 
tian mountain regions. The juice of the cherry 
fermented and distilled yields the spirit, which 
is flavored with the broken cherry kernels. Im- 
itations of the genuine Maraschino are easily 
made with raspberry juice, bitter almonds, and 
orange-flower water. 

Kiimmel, or Allasch, is prepared by macerat- 
ing and distilling caraway seeds, which form 
the body, with bitter almonds, star-anise, an- 
gelica root, Florentine iris, and orange peel. 

Absinthe is the name of an aromatic liqueur 
of an opaline-green and bitter taste. It is pre- 
pared by steeping in alcohol or strong spirit 
bitter herbs, especially cultivated. It is con- 
sidered tonic and stomachic. 

Benedictine is a liqueur resembling Char- 
treuse, distilled at Fecamp, in Normandy. It 
was originally prepared by the Benedictine 
monks, from whom it takes the name. 

Cherry Brandy is a liqueur made by flavoring 
spirits with the syrup of cherries. 

Vermouth is a mild liqueur consisting of 
white wine, flavored with wormwood and other 
ingredients. It is prepared chiefly in France 



J74 STORY OF THE WINES 

and Italy, that of Turin being the most es- 
teemed, and its special use is to stimulate the 
appetite by its bitterness. 

Kirschicasser, as the name indicates, is made 
from small cherries of a special variety which 
are grown only on the foothills of the Swiss 
Alps. 

Creme de Vanille, Creme de 3Ienthe, and 
other liqueurs of similar names, are simple 
liqueurs which derive their names from the 
principal flavoring ingredient. 

GIX 

Gin is an aromatic spirit prepared from rye 
or other grain, and flavored with juniper ber- 
ries. The two principal kinds are Dutch Gin or 
.Holland, and English Gin, for which the popu- 
lar name is Old Tom. 

RUM 

Eum is spirit distilled from the juice of sugar 
cane in any form, commonly from the refuse 
cane left from sugar-making, but also often 
from molasses. Rum has always been an es- 
pecially American product, the most esteemed 
kinds being made in the West Indies, known as 
Jamaica Eum, Santa Cruz, or by the name of 
the locality in which it is made. 



TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 

ORIGIN OF TOASTS 

To discover the origin of the habit of toast- 
ing, it will be necessary to go back to the most 
remote ages. 

If we may believe some authorities, the 
Greeks were the authors of toasting. It was 
one of their customs to pledge each other. 
They drank to the honor of the gods, their 
friends, and their national heroes. 

Whilst this may have been the earliest period, 
at which the toasting habit has been authenti- 
cated, it is doubtful if toasting had not been as 
popular in Nineveh, Babylon, and Thebes as it 
subsequently became in Athens, for the wine 
cup has doubtless been always more or less as- 
sociated with the custom of toastmaking. 

With the Greeks it was customary for one 
of a party, after filling his cup, as he quaffed 
from his libation, to salute some distinguished 
person present with the pledge: '* I wish you 
prosperity." 

The remainder of the contents was then 
offered to the person saluted, who, bowing po- 
litely, partook of the wine, prefacing his action 

17S 



176 TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 

with ' ' I take it kindly of you, ' ' or some similar 
phrase. 

A more elaborate ceremony prevailed upon 
formal occasions. At these the cup was passed 
from the toastmaker to his nearest neighbor on 
the right, who in turn passed it on until it had 
gone the round of the circle. The cups grew 
larger in size at each serving, and the toasts 
took the conventional form of, first, " The 
Gods," followed by " Present Friends," '' Mis- 
tresses," and " Absent Friends." 

The object of the toast changed with the de- 
velopment of the race. In the countries where 
Christianity succeeded paganism the saints and 
the Trinity became familiar pledges, the arch- 
angels, even, sharing in the honors. In the 
early days of the Christian era the response to 
the toast to saint or Supreme Being was 
" Amen." 

At the feasts of the Romans we glean from 
Pliny that toasting was common, but it was the 
Danes and Normans who forced their habits of 
heavy drinking upon the Anglo-Saxons and 
Celts, a practice which carried with it the in- 
evitable accompaniment of toasting. 

It is no longer fashionable to toast any par- 
ticular member of the gentle sex, but toasts to 
" Woman " are most popular wherever con- 
viviality prevails. 



TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING t77 

TABLE SPEAKING 

Speechmaking, like the ability to offer a 
timely toast, is a necessary part of the duties 
which fall to the lot of the man who mingles 
to any extent in society, although the genuine 
orator or speaker is naturally almost as rare 
as the able writer. 

To be able to make a short practical response 
at any timo^ one must necessarily undergo a 
little training, although a readiness of wit will 
often make up for lack of practice in this direc- 
tion. 

Speeches made at the dinner table are de- 
livered in clear, well-modulated tones, just loud 
enough to be clearly understood, and with the 
expression thrown into the countenance rather 
than accentuated by means of gestures. Loud- 
ness at table would be entirely out of place. 
The wit should be of a subtle, penetrating char- 
acter, and without any apparent effort at 
cleverness. 

One should never be lost on festive occasions 
for a ready jest, a witty story, or even an ex- 
ceptionally good riddle. Depth of meaning is 
not looked for except in speeches from celeb- 
rities, when it is expected that some weighty 
matter will be dwelt u])on by the speaker. 

To go to a dinner where there is likely to be 



178 TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 

some speaking and toasting, one should cer- 
tainly be prepared with one or more toasts and 
something novel in the way of anecdote. • 

The long speech is one of the unpardonable 
offences of the too-obtrusive guest. Better 
make a thoroughly good apology or excuse and 
refrain from any attempt than to stutter out 
some meaningless phrases. To say a few 
words gracefully should, however, be within the 
scope of the ordinary individual* In these 
days of general social intercourse, such a talent 
becomes almost necessary. 

Most persons are deterred from attempting 
to distinguish themselves in the way of speech- 
making by nervousness and by a dread of the 
sound of their own voice, which is easily over- 
come after the first few efforts. Those who 
desire to essay something of the kind should 
first commit their thoughts to writing, study 
and improve the first effort, and in that way 
get the speech committed to memory, so that 
when delivered it will meet the approval of the 
audience. 

BREAKFAST SPEECH 

The breakfast speech is seldom heard of in 
the United States. It does not differ much from 
the dinner and supper speeches, except that it 
generally lacks that warmth and effusiveness 



TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING J79 

which characterizes the latter. Breakfast 
speeches are generally made at weddings, and 
are usually of a light and frivolous character. 
Naturally, at a wedding breakfast, speeches 
and toasts are the order of the day. First 
there is the toast offered to the bride, to which 
the best man generally responds. Then the 
bridegroom is toasted, and in return is com- 
pelled to make some felicitous reply. The 
father and%nother of the bride are next, re- 
spectively, toasted, and all must reply, either 
personally or by deputy. It is well for any 
and every one present at a wedding breakfast 
to be ready of tongue and quick of wit. 

AFTER-DINNER SPEECH 

The after-dinner speech is, par excellence, 
the great si)eech of all, and embodied in our 
accounts of social affairs are many notable ex- 
amples of this class of social oratory. 

SUPPER SPEECH 

The supper speech should be made to a point 
after' the style of an epigram, and should be 
of equal brevity. 

A ball-supper speech should be very light and 
lively. 

The surprise-party s]icoeh is another variety 
which must vary according to circumstances, 



J80 TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 

and these will generally suggest themselves as 
the key to the address. 

Birthday speeches cannot be made very 
original efforts unless some peculiarly fortunate 
circumstance lends an unexpected opportunity. 

HOW TO PREPAKE A SPEECH 

Having covered some of the ground in our 
effort to point out the more important features 
of actual speeehmaking and toa^ at social 
gatherings, perhaps we would do well to go 
back over the ground again, in order to settle 
a question that may have arisen as to prece- 
dence in the toasts and speeches, and also to 
close this short dissertation by finding a few 
helpful hints, gathered from the experience of 
great public speakers, that may enable our 
readers to improve along the lines of duty that 
may fall to them when called upon to speak in 
a gathering of their friends, or at public or 
semi-public entertainments. 

We take first the topic of hints for speech- 
making and toasts, to be followed, in conclusion, 
by the question of social precedence referred to. 

Mastery of the subject is the first considera- 
tion in either toasts or speeehmaking, for even 
in a toast there must be some subject-matter 
clearly defined in the mind of the would-be 
speaker. "■ Clear thought is the foundation of 



TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING I8t 

persuasive speech," and clear thought can only 
be obtained by exact knowledge. 

Having chosen, or been given his subject, the 
orator's first duty, therefore, is to crystallize 
it into a single proposition, and to group round 
that proposition all the facts and arguments he 
can possibly collect. This part of his work can- 
not be too elaborate. He must read every- 
thing he can find bearing on the subject. An 
excellent plan is to make notes of all relevant 
facts and arguments and write these down on 
slips of paper cut to a uniform size, adopting 
the method of having a separate card for every 
note — one idea, one card; these notes may be 
allowed to accumulate indefinitely, and can 
periodically be arranged in such an order that 
all the notes relating to the several passages 
in the projected speech will come together and 
form a skeleton of the finished address. 

Having collected his materials, the student 
will next set to work to analyze his notes and fit 
them all together in logical sequence, so that 
the original skeleton becomes a perfectly bal- 
anced framework; on to this he will attach in 
their several proper places all his facts, and 
figures, and illustrations, discarding such notes 
as he may now regard as immaterial or unim- 
portant. "When the speech is argmnentative. 
and intended to be delivered to a critical audi- 



J82 TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 

ence, he will be well advised not to eliminate too 
much. By the time he has mastered his sub- 
ject he may easily make the mistake of thinking 
that his hearers have done the same thing as 
thoroughly as himself, and fail in his object by 
assuming that they possess greater knowledge 
than is actually the case. An argument may be 
so condensed as to become almost unintelligible 
on a single hearing, and consequently the 
speaker, while avoiding prolixity and repeti- 
tion, should avoid the opposite danger of in- 
adequate elaboration, remembering always that 
the burden of proof rests upon himself, and 
that his task is only done when he has satisfied 
the last objector. 

A speech consists of four parts : exordium, 
discussion, conclusion, and peroration. The 
first prepares the way for the second; the 
second must be followed naturally and inevi- 
tably by the third ; the third is emphasized and 
rounded off by the last. It is to the second and 
third that the student must address himself 
particularly in the process of preparation here 
suggested, for they are the body of the speech ; 
the extremities inaj be treated rather differ- 
ently. The exordium, for instance, may or may 
not contain an enunciation of the proposition 
which the speaker proposes to establish ; it may 
be personal in tone, intended to conciliate an 



TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING J83 



audience which the speaker has reason to be- 
lieve is hostile to his views; it may be several 
other things; but it should always bear directly 
upon the matter in hand, and be short and to 
the point; it is the speaker's introduction of 
himself to his audience, and ought to be 
" happy." In the same way, the peroration 
may contain a direct reference to the original 
proposition, may be apologetic or denuncia- 
tory, rhetorical or emotional. Only practice 
can enable a man to decide how he shall con- 
clude any si)eech; there is an -art in leaving off, 
and sometimes only a natural artistic instinct 
can tell a man when and how to stop. No 
direct advice can be given upon these heads; 
but in ])re]:)aring a s]ieech the exordium and 
peroration may be left to the last, and in de- 
livering the speech something of the exordium 
may be left to depend upon the conditions 
found to exist at the actual moment. 

Having mastered his subject and " built " 
his speech, the student should next reduce it to 
actual words, and his safest and wisest plan will 
be to write it out at length. No really great 
oration has ever yet been delivered ex tem- 
pore. 

In this connection, Lord Brougham, no mean 
authority, has said : ** This leads me to remark 
that, though speaking without writing before- 



J84 TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 

hand is very well till the habit of easy speaking 
is acquired, yet after that he can never write 
too much; this is quite clear. It is laborious, 
no doubt, and it is more difficult, beyond com- 
parison, than speaking offhand; but it is neces- 
sary to perfect oratory, and, at any rate, it is 
necessary to acquire the habit of correct dic- 
tion. But I go further, and say even to the end 
of a man's life he must prepare word for word 
most of his finer passages." 

The written speech thus perfected serves a 
double purpose; it is available for the speaker 
to read from if the subject is of first-class im- 
portance and he fears that from nervousness, 
or any other cause, he may lose the thread of his 
argument and mar his prospects by omitting 
any essential points ; it is also available for him 
to study; he can commit it word for word to 
memory and repeat it textually. so that his ad- 
dress — however it may be delivered — is, at any 
rate, a finished dissertation upon the subject at 
issue. On both these counts a word of warn- 
ing is necessary. An address read from copy 
can never have the same convincing effect as an 
oration delivered with an air of spontaneity; 
the delivery of an oration must be supple- 
mented with animation of manner and appro- 
priate gesture, and a man who reads his ad- 
dress is hampered by the necessity of holding 



TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING i85 

his manuscript and directing his attention to 
that instead of his audience; and, on the other 
hand, the man who finds it necessary to learn 
his speech by heart and deliver it textually 
from memory runs some risk of seeming to be 
repeating a lesson and of delivering it too me- 
chanically, and, probably, with too great rapid- 
ity of utterance. 

There can be no doubt, however, that the ex- 
ercise of writing out in full the speech to be 
delivered does impress its phraseology with 
singular distinctness on the mind, and it should 
always be done until the habit of easy speaking 
has been acciuired and the orator can rely upon 
the insi)iration of the moment to clothe in ap- 
propriate words the arguments he has pre- 
viously considered and noted down. From the 
complete copy, moreover, a summary can be 
prepared, covering i>erliaps only a few sheets 
of note-pa])er, which the most practised orator 
can advantageously employ to refresh his mem- 
ory when he is actually called upon to rise and 
face his audience. 

Young speakers should never omit to write 
out and memorize their speeches, and they 
should further rehearse them privately before- 
kand to some friendly critic, who can advise 
them on the manner of delivery and give many 
valuable hints as to which points shall be em- 



J86 TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 

phasized and which may be less forcibly driven 
home. 

This, then, is an adequate, if brief, indication 
of the course to be pursued in the preparation 
of a speech. Study the subject, frame the ar- 
gument, select the materials, write the speech, 
memorize it textually: this done, no man need 
fear to rise to his feet before the largest audi- 
ence. At least he will have paid them the com- 
pliment of taking the utmost possible pains to 
have something intelligent and lucid to offer 
to their consideration. 

To the intelligent reader who takes an in- 
terest in toasts and speeches, as aids to self- 
improvement and a means of social advance- 
ment, what is here written would seem all-suffi- 
cient to enable them to see just what it is that 
the toast writer and speechmaker cannot dis- 
pense with, if they would avoid failure. Much 
might still be said about Delivery, Some Com- 
mon Errors of Speech, and other details, but 
these details, after all, depend upon the indi- 
vidual almost exclusively, and do not yield up 
their difficulties to ways and means pure and 
simple. 

DELIVERING A SPEECH 

The following is believed to be one of the best 
things on the subject of Delivery that has 



TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING lb'/ 

been written in recent years. The writer is an 
eminent authority both on the theory and prac- 
tice of oratory. After describing various ex- 
ercises, he says : '' It would be advantageous to 
take any piece and read it backwards. I do not 
know of any practice more calculated to pro- 
duce clear articulation than this. In perform- 
ing it great care should be taken to let each 
word stand out, above and apart from its neigh- 
bors. It will also be necessary that each letter 
in the syllable, and each syllable in the word, 
^lould be distinctly heard. And here we may 
lay down a very good rule — let every letter and 
every syllable be distinctly heard, unless there 
be some good reason against it. Take care to 
enunciate each word as clearly as possible. 
Breathe between each two words." 

Pronunciation is an important matter, the 
difference between correct and incorrect pro- 
nunciation marking the difference between an 
educated and an uneducated man. In ordinary 
conversation the most common errors are due 
to carelessness, to a slipshod speech, which is 
tolerated for no apparent reason, and which 
many parents only check in their children when 
it degenerates into such glaring faults that 
** something must be done." Among children, 
and in ordinary affairs of life, pronunciation 
more or less faulty may perhaps be tolerated 



J88 TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 

until " something must be done," with very 
great damage in the meantime. In public 
speaking, however, correct pronunciation is 
absolutely essential, because failure in this par- 
ticular exposes the orator to public ridicule. 
And the cultivation of the gift of speech de- 
pends entirely on the individual. Having de- 
voted so much space to the art of speech-mak- 
ing, we pass now to our final topic. 

APTER-DINN^ER SPEECH EXEMPLIFIED 

The following furnishes a fair example of an 
after-dinner speech made in response to a toast 
*' To All Good Eating and Good Eaters." 

Mr. Chairman: This is a toast to which 
every one who values his life can respond, not 
only with ease, but with an enjojTuent of one's 
subject to which the memory of the feasts 
which have gone before furnishes us a ready and 
inspiring zest. To Byron is ascribed the re- 
mark that he ' ' had generally found good livers 
to be amiable gentlemen and good friends." 
We should be behind the ancients did we not 
ascribe to the stomach the credit of being the 
seat of our noblest impulses. Who is there 
that can rise from a feast such as the one of 
which we have just partaken without feelings 
of gratitude and generosity, prompting him to 



TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 189 

noble acts and the most amiable sentiments 
towards his friends. It is not even necessary 
in some cases for us to have actually partaken 
of the good things which are going round at the 
time to feel ourselves lifted out of the rut of 
our own sordid existences and our enveloping 
chains of selfishness. The very atmosi)here of 
the occasion prompts us to a more amicable 
understanding between ourselves and the world. 
Who is there present, I will ask, that ever heard 
of a man committing murder or doing any mean 
act immediately after having partaken of a 
generous meal. On the other hand, how tract- 
able and a]iproacliable a man becomes after 
having disposed of the good things provided 
for his appetite. Then is the time that his 
heart-strings are opened, and if any one has 
occasion to request a favor, then is the time 
that his request should be preferred, for, if 
ever, then is the time that it will be granted. 
The wise wife who responded to the question 
as to what was the best way to manage a hus- 
band by the terse reply " Feed the brute! " 
was a sagacious member of a usually sagacious 
sex. 

Eating, if not the fountain of genius, is at 
least the inspiration of all industry and enter- 
])rise. Who is there that can resist the tempta- 
tion to go and work after having regaled himself 



190 TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 

heartily and refreshed the springs of his being 
with the real elixir of life 1 It is to eating that 
we owe existence, and the more advanced we 
become m the art of eating the higher we 
ascend in the scale of civilization. 
To quote a popular author : 

* ' We may live without poetry, music, and art ; 

We may live without conscience and live with- 
out heart; 

We may live without friends and live without 
books. 

But civilized man cannot live without cooks. ' ' 

^' May our faults be written on the sands of 
the seashore, and every good action prove a 
wave to wash them out." 

There is no need to go into an elaborate 
analysis of the arts and manufactures of a 
nation in order to understand the status of its 
people, mental and physical. The sociologist 
merely needs to visit its houses of refreshment, 
its temples of gastronomy, to feel the pulses of 
its epicures, and to take the standard of the 
culinary development of its domestic managers, 
in order to know the precise capabilities of its 
members. 

The great worker, the great thinker, the great 



TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 191 

writer — are they not all devotees of good dishes 
and good cups when occasion calls for them? 
' It has been asserted that eating is a habit. I 
believe so, and may it long continue one with 
the human race. Meat and wine are condemned 
by the vegetarians and the total abstainers. 
Let them have the privilege of their opinions. 
To me meat is a life-builder, and " charm he 
never so wisely," I cannot believe with the re- 
formed tipi)ler that a glass of good wine was 
not intended by nature as the natural adjunct 
to a festive occasion. In conclusion, I will ad- 
monish such of my friends as can do so to eat 
heartily, for to-morrow we know not if we may 
have the oi)portunity or no. If there is one 
thing that a man lives more for than another it 
is to eat, for the simple reason that, as a matter 
of ordinary physiological necessity, it is or- 
dained that under any circumstances it is com- 
pulsory on him to eat in order that he may live, 
nor have even the wisest of us been able yet to 
solve this apparently insoluble problem of the 
stomach in any different fashion. 

FORMAL RESPONSE TO *' THE LADIES " 

Ladies and Gentlemen: The privilege has 
been accorded me of replying to the toast to 
" The Ladies," an honor which cannot be too 
highly esteemed. This toast embraces woman- 



192 TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 

hood — the mother, the wife, the daughter, the 
sister, and last, but not least, the sweetheart. 
Here, then, is to " The Ladies." May their 
smiles always be as bright, their hearts as 
light, and their grip on us as tight as it is to- 
night. If there are any bachelors among us, 
may the ladies' smiles prove their undoing; if 
any spinsters, may they be led to see the folly 
of their ways and filled with the resolve to make 
some poor, unmated male creature happy. 
" The Ladies " forever — our companions in 
the joy of living and our solace in the shadow 
of sorrow. The ladies, God bless them! 

^' THE HOST " 

Gentlemen : Fill your glasses till the beaded 
bubbles at the brim run over. This is a toast 
to honor which is a joleasure and a duty. I give 
you the health of our host. God bless him! 

REPLY TO TOAST TO HOST 

For the manner in which you have drank the 
toast of my health I thank you most heartily. 
To feel one 's self surrounded by such a host of 
sincere friends, and to feel that they are enjoy- 
ing themselves heartily, would make the most 
modest of mortals feel momentarily proud. 
Such occasions as this stir the blood in our 
veins; prompt us to broader and wider bonds 



TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKJNG 193 

oi" union with our friends, our neighbors, and 
the world. 

The battle of life is a long and hard cam- 
pai,2:n, but once in a while comes the bivouac, 
when, resting for a moment on our guns, we 
eat, drink, and grow merry, forgetting the 
sound of the guns and the turmoil of the long 
struggle for elusive fortune. This little lull in 
the battle makes us all feel that, after all, life 
is worth fighting for, and that that same life 
without friends would be a wretched blank. 
Again I thank you for your generous good-fel- 
lowship, and pledge myself that no effort shall 
be wanting on my part to enable you to propose 
the same toast, under the same circumstances, 
again and again. 

GOLDEN WEDDING 

This is the harvest of love, the golden sheaf 
ivhich has resulted from Cupid's sowing in the 
purple sunrise of two happy lives long, long 
ago. 

Our friends, whom we gather to honor, have 
now reached the golden age of maturity. Hand 
in hand they have ascended the hill of life ; hand 
in hand they are descending into the valley at 
whose border lies the deeper life beyond. This 
valley, to them, is lighted with the unfailing 
beams of faithfulness, affection, and devotion. 



J94 TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 

It is a rare privilege to witness this beautiful 
sight, to see the bride and bridegroom of to-day 
in spirit and heart the bride and bridegroom of 
this day half a century ago. 

Time, which has garlanded their brows with 
the fruits of wisdom, has sown fresh flowers in 
their hearts and mellowed their affection, 
which, like good wine, has but improved with 
age. 

It is our happy function to felicitate this de- 
voted couple upon the fiftieth anniversary of 
their marriage, to hope that many years may 
pass before the golden link is broken that binds 
their lives together, that their bark at last, after 
sailing the golden sea, may find a golden sun- 
set — this is the united sentiment of all gathered 
here to-day. 

SILVER WEDDIISTG 

It is twenty-five years ago — does it seem pos- 
sible that time has stolen so swiftly away? — 
since our friends entered for the race of life 
together, 'Tis to congratulate them upon hav- 
ing won the plate that we are here. This is the 
plate [pointing to gifts]. For a quarter of a 
century has this happy team run neck and neck 
until the winning-post was reached. Now, 
ladies and gentlemen, let us drink to the win- 
ners, und let us hope that upon starting off for 



TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 195 

the gold plate they may be just as easy winners. 
Let us, then, as we drink to their success, con- 
gratulate our dear friends, and, while doing so, 
not forget to point out to any unmarried ones 
present the charming idyll which has been lived 
in the lives of those whom we meet to honor, 
and suggest to them the happy idea of emu- 
lating such a charming example. Their healths 
— God bless them ! 

TOASTS TO WOMEN 

I'll toast America's daughters — let all fill their 
glasses — 

Whose beauty and virtue the whole world sur- 
passes; 

May blessings attend them, go wherever they 
will, 

And foul fall the man that e'er offers them ill. 

The girl we love — when she is our toast, we 
don't want any but her. 

May we find our wives to-night where Cain 
found his — in the land of Nod. 

Harmony in all the states of the world — espe- 
cially the married state. 

The best union bonds in the market — mar- 
riage certificates. 



J96 TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 

The world was sad, the garden was a wild; 
And man, a hermit, sigh'd — till woman smil'd. 

Since Eve ate the apple much depends upon 
dinner. 

You can make fools of wits, we find each hour ; 
But to make wits of fools is past your power. 

Here 's to her ! whoever she be, 

That not impossible she 

That shall command thy heart and thee. 

Women are like tricks by sleight of hand, 
Which, to admire, we should not understand. 

I fill this cup to one made up 
Of loveliness alone. 

Come, fill the glass and drain the bowl; 
May Love and Bacchus still agree; 
And every American warm his soul 
With Cupid, Wine, and Liberty! 

Fill, boys, and drink about; 

Wine will banish sorrow! 
Come, drain the goblet out, 

For we'll have more to-morrow. 

** Arms and the man! " 

Here's to woman, God bless her! 
May our arms be ever her defence, 
And hers — our recompense. 



TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING J97 

Here's to ourselves. There's none better, 
and few like iis. 

Here's to those that we love — and to those 
that love them that love us. 

God sends meat and the Devil sends cooks. 

Here's to you as good as you are, 

And to me as bad as I am; 

For as good as you are, and as bad as I am, 

I'm as good as you are, bad as I am. 

Here's to the prettiest, here's to the wittiest. 
Here's to the truest of all that is true; 
Here's to the neatest one, here's to the sweetest 

one, 
Here's to them all in one — here's to you! 

Here's that we may kiss whom we please 
and please whom we kiss. 

Here's to our vices, lying, swearing, stealing, 

and drinking: 

That you may lie in the cause of friendship — 
That you may swear by your honor — 
That you may steal all the kisses of the one 

you love — 
And that when you drink, you may drink to 

** her." 



198 TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 

A good wife and health are a man's best 
w-ealth. 

What's a table richly spread without a 
woman at its head? 

The Ladies 

Always favorable to a press, properly con- 
ducted. 

Drink to fair woman, who, I think, 

Is most entitled to it ; 
For if anything ever can drive me to drink, 

She certainly could do it. 

To Woman 

She needs no eulogy ; she speaks for herself. 

You may run the whole gamut of color and 

shade, 
A prettj^ girl — however you dress her — 
Is the prettiest thing that ever was made — 
And the last one is always the prettiest — bless 

her! 

Old Navy Toast 

Here's to our sweethearts and wives; 
May they never meet. 

He who loves not women, wine, and song, 
Will be a fool his whole existence long. 



TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 199 

Here's to the light that lies in a woman's eyes, 
And lies, and lies, and lies. 

Here's to our sweethearts and wives, and so be 

their changing of parts; 
That onr sweethearts may soon be onr wives, 

and our wives always be our sweethearts. 

To the Newly Wedded 

May we all live to be present at their golden 
wedding. 

To the Bride 

May her voyage through life be as lightsome 

and free 
As the sunbeams that dance on the waves of 

the sea. 

TOAST TO LOVERS 

The Widoiv Malone — An old favorite hy 
Charles Lever 

Did ye hear of the Widow Malone, 

Ohone ! 

Who lived in the town of Athlone, 

Alone ! 

Oh, she melted the hearts 

Of the swains in them parts, 

So lovely the Widow Malone, 

Ohone I 

So lovely the Widow Malone. 



200 TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 

Of lovers she had a full score, 

Or more ; 
And fortunes they all had galore, 

In store; 
From the minister down 
To the clerk of the '' Crown," 
All were courting the "Widow Malone, 

Ohone ! 
All were courting the Widow Malone. 

But so modest was Mrs. Malone, 

'Twas known, 
No one ever could see her alone, 

Ohone I 
Let them ogle and sigh. 
They could ne'er catch her eye. 
So bashful the Widow Malone, 

Ohone ! 
So bashful the Widow Malone. 

Till one. Mister O'Brien from Clare, 

How quare! 
It's little for blushin' they care, 

Down there ; 
Put his arm round her waist. 
Gave ten kisses at laste, 
** Oh," says he, " you're my Molly Ma- 
lone I" 



TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 201 

xVud the widow they all thought so shy, 

My eye ! 
Ne'er thought of a simper or sigh, 

For why? 
But '* Lucius," says she, 
" Since you've made now so free, 
You may marry your Mary i\Ialone," 

Ohone ! 
** You may marry your Mary Malone." 

There's a moral contained in my song, 

Not wrong ; 

And one comfort it's not very long. 

But strong; 

If for widows you die. 

Learn to kiss, not to sigh, 

For they're all like sweet Mistress Malone, 

Ohone ! 

Oh! they're all like sweet Mistress Malone. 

With lashings of drink on the table, 
I like to lie down in the sun, 
And drame whin my faytures is scorcliin', 
That when I'm too ould for more fun, 
Why, I'll marry a wife with a fortune. 
And, in winter, with bacon and eggs, 
And a place at the turf-fire ])askin', 
Ri]> my punch as I roasted my legs, 
Oh, the devil a more I'd be askin'. 



202 TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 

For I haven't a janius for work, 
It was never the gift of the Bradies; 
But I'd make a most ilegant Turk, 
For I'm fond of tobacco and ladies. '* 

Friendship 

Here 's to the tears of friendship ! May they 
crystallize as they fall and be worn as gems in 
the memory of those we love. 

In ascending the hill of prosperity may we 
never meet a friend. 

Reasons for Drinking — Dr. Aldrich 

Good wine; a friend; or being dry; 
Or, lest we should be by-and bye ; 
Or any other reason wh}'. 

To a Friend 
May his shadow never grow less. 

Man's Natural History, According to the Cluh- 
iroman 
The head of all creation. He crops up like 
sparrowgrass, hops round like a grasshopper, 
and is generally about ten times greener than 
the greenest grass. 

Here's to the American Aigle, 
That bird so uncommonly hale, 
TTliom nobody yet could invaigle 
When they tried to put salt on his tail. 



TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 203 

To a Departed Friend 

But for the touch of a vanished hand 
And the sound of a voice that is still. 

Here's a sigh for those that love me, 
And a smile for those that hate ; 
And, whatever sky's above me, 
Here's a heart for any fate. 

— Byron. 

To an Easy Time — By Charles Lever 
It's little for glory I care; 
Sure ambition is only a fable; 
I'd as soon be myself as lord mayor, 
And quite as likely be able. 

Our Absent Friends 

Although out of sight, we recognize them 
with our glasses. 

Here 's to champagne, the drink divine, 
That makes us forget our troubles ; 
It's made of a dollar's worth of wine 
And three dollars' worth of bubbles. 

Here's to good old whiskey, 

So amber and so clear; 

It's not so sweet as a woman's lips, 

But a d d sight more sincere. 



204 TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 

The Lily of France may fade, 
The Thistle and Shamrock wither, 
The Oak of Old England decay, 
But the Stars will shine on forever. 

The bubble wink'd at me and said, 

" You'll miss me, brother, when you're dead." 

Let us have wine and women, mirth and laugh- 
ter; 

Sermons and soda-water can follow the evening 
after. 

Our Country/ 

To her we drink, for her we pray, 

Our voices silent never; 

For her we '11 fight, come what come may, 

The Stars and Stripes forever ! 

Then fill the bowl — away with gloom; 
Our joys shall always last; 
For hope will brighten days to come. 
And memory gild the past. 

Here's to a long life and a merry one, 
A quick death and an easy one, 
A pretty girl and a true one, 
A cold bottle and another one. 



TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 205 

Here's to wine enoii2:li to sharpen wit; wit 
enough to lend a sparkle to the wine; and wis- 
dom enough to put the lid on in time. 

May the wings of friendship never moult a 
feather. 

As Shakespeare says: 

" Come, love and health to all; 

Then I'll sit down. Give me some wine, fill full, 

I drink to the general joy o' the whole table." 

See ! the standard of freedom floats proudly on 

high, 
'Tis the bright, waving banner of light; 
Fair symbol of liberty, born of the sky, 
True emblem of union and might ! 

Here's a health to Columbia, the pride of the 

earth. 
The Stars and the Stripes — drink the land of 

our birth ! 
Toast the army and navy who fought for our 

cause, 
Wlio conquered and won us our freedom and 

laws. 

Dear country, our thoughts are more constant 

to thee 
Than the steel to the star, or the stream to the 

sea. 



206 TOASTS AND SPEECHMAKING 

The American flag — may it ever wave 
O'er tlie home of the free — the land of the 
brave. 

Health to the gallant officers of our army and 
na^^. After all battles and storms are over 
may they drop quietly and happily into the 
harbor of unending bliss. 

May the service united ne'er sever, 

But hold to their colors so true ; 

The Army and Navy forever ! 

Three cheers for the Red, White, and Elue I 

Freedom without faction. 

America 

Birthplace of liberty and haven for all the 
oppressed. 

The American Flag 

A star for every State and a State for every 
star. 

Golden Wedding 

Matrimony's pleasant autumn. May it al- 
ways bear golden fruit. 

Silver Wedding 

A quarter of a century's investment. The 
best five-twenty bond in the world. 



MENU TERMS IN FOREIGN LANGUAGES 207 





























on 


































o 










n 

CO 

< 

V. 


r. 

o 


55 


1 

1 




1 
1 


C3 

'3 
?! 


to 

?■ 
be 

> 


o 

(1. 


o 

to 


e8 
t>j 

O 


0] 

-3 

Is 

to 


o 

C3 

to 

o 

'3 


rt 
fe 




CO 






























-i^ 










Z 

a: 


;4 

0) 

CO 

. 3 
<1 


a. 
a. 

D 

02 


' 


1 


S 

o 


CO 

o 


o 

CO 

:3 
C 

s 


CO 

3 


a 
o 


3 
P 






:3 


3 






























-»a 










n 


CO 

1 


f1 


> 

3 

8 


s 


4S 

> 


to 

1 


CO 

c 

o 


-3 


o 


u 
(J 


'3 
C3 


<o 

CO 

CO 


'3 


be 

C3 

s 


CS 




a 


;2 


■2 

o 


<2 


cS 




W 


C» 


tf 


O 


rt 


0) 
CO 


fe 















W 


















































QU 










a 
2 


to 

o 


a, 

3 
O 

m 


Q 
o 

"3 




o 

o 

S 
o 


CO 


is 


f5 


•<-9 

to 




-3 




Q 

-3 
c5 

CO 

1 

QQ 


•*:> 

fo 


CO 




6 



208 



MEATS, ETCt IN VARIOUS LANGUAGESl 



'^ § o S S 2 2 « 



^a£= 





ley 
rraga 

a neg 

ol 

cnli 


rza 

rdo 

■ivia 

Floric 

orteu 

ezo 

llo 

coria 




n 




Be 

Ca 

Chi 

erza 

pio h 

Cei 

Achi 


rr 




o 


n< 


S 








t-9 









n o 

- « S H =^ - 

C — -5 S c8 1, tc 







2®-SfJ?„<D OS'S 

^3 8=^ Ma,., -HO 

S 5 "E O ii = :S O i. - ^ i^ rt 



®-S-3 = s 5 !- ^ ^s 



£. -3? 



o s 






-) ?r c) c C O 






o 












§ a c 



<! ^ 11 ij £-135 



5 

ocq*o£_2rC^ 



-3 -^fd-ga hgo 



5 C 

S'3 



feo 






^1 S £ ® r^ 



piQ 



6 



MEATS, ETC., IN VARIOUS LANGUAGES 209 



a ss 



« s g 

2^ o g =;; 3 >a, 



OS ;j — ' 



2 C a tea ej-; _, n fc> 



1) - = 



ii ;: X 

esC3 









-2 






































s ^ 




fc 











a 






H 3 




tS3 rj 




♦j 






::S 






S 3 








03 






fe 


<-^ -, 


SB 


!•» S-? t.2 





.^2^ 




on 


U 






11 ^§|.2^ 


■4 
3 




= 


ESo 


c 


3 


a 


2 S i-";: 


li>l£l|ll 







£ 


9^ -a - 

^ a 
a> 

a 
'S 

a 






:3 


S 

c3 



•5 


2 


£ 

ot 

CO 


^.^O t: S2-S 5t3 



2c£l 
6C _ 

M ° 

4, ^ .- •-. 

tea 



I 



r3 o 



.2 ° 
O c 




o 

o 



Q 



a 



3? 



"u.2 ® 



u.: 

- ^ i- i "- 



o 



-U -a 

•'So -M o - 

2. 2* -23>iB^ 2 

3 3..j3aS.=' = '- ^ -a a 



"a 

o 






210 MEATS, ETC., IN VARIOUS LANGUAGES 




5 v: rt r= rf o o S S a -,3 



'CPHH 









-? ,P4 



3S 



si's 



2- i-cs ^^. 



^ 5 "S 3 ^ *^ "3 '3 — 



aj !» 


(D 


M 


— 


;: 


J3 


.» 


,— 




■r^ 




r: 


.1 


ii 


^ 




c 


S 






a 












^ 


5W 


O" 






1-^ 


5 


x 


13 


o 



g.fc! 



C g 



_ 0^ ^< •—-SO 

rt ^-^J (-^ IZ Qt C <3J 






^2. 



•s^ 



Si* 

'SsD 
IS Q 



o c s 



2 c S 2 ® jf X':: 

3 c s c "^ 



3 ? tCS 






r- »^ 






P4 



cO 



ID 

6 



-as'-' Sac 5«5 ce ~.^ .-=- o.s.= P» 



ci o S ci S irj, c 



g o 

"a 



O. 
S) 
P4 



a. 

a 



» 



« 



oc 



GQ 



■ ^ ,^1 <D 



TERMS USED IN COOKING 

Abattis — Giblets. 

Agneau — Lamb. 

A la, au, aux — With; as Huitres aux cham- 
pignons, — Oysters with mushrooms ; or, Smelts 
a la Tartare, — with tartare sauce. 

A I'Aiirore — A white sauce, colored pink with 
spawn of lobster. 

A la bonne Femme — Of the good housewife. 

A I'Estragon — With tarragon. 

A la Neige — In the style of snow. 

A la Poiilette — Meat or fish warmed in white 
sauce with yolks of eggs. 

A la Reine — of the queen. 

Allemande — A thick white sauce made with 
cream and the yolks of eggs, and seasoned with 
nutmeg and lemon juice. 

Almond — A nut grown in southern Europe. 
It consists of a stone fruit, the fleshy pericarp 
of which dries in ripening, and forms a tough 
covering to the stone. Bitter almonds are ob- 
tained from Morocco. They contain prussic 
acid, and are poisonous. The sweet almonds 
include the Jordan and Valencia varieties. The 
Jordan almonds, imported from Malaga, are 
long and narrow, and are considered the best. 

2n 



212 TERMS USED IN COOKING 

Angelica — A plant, the stems of which are 
preserved in syrup, and used for decorating 
pastry, etc. 

Anguilles — Eels. 

Apricot — A stone fruit cultivated in temper- 
ate and tropical climates. The skin has a 
highly perfumed flavor. 

Asperges — Asparagnis. 

Aspic Jelly — A transparent meat jelly made 
with stock, and used for garnishing. 

Assiette — Plate. 

Atelet — A small silver skewer. 

Au Beurre noir — ^AVith black butter. 

Au Beurre roux — '\N\i\\ browned butter. 

Au Bleu — A French term applied to fish 
boiled in white wine with flavorers. 

Au Gratin — Dishes covered with crumbs and 
grated cheese and browned over. 

Au Gras — Dressed with meat gravy. 

Au naturel — Plain, simple (potatoes cooked 
in their jackets are *' au naturel "). 

Au Jus — In the natural juice, or gravy. 

Au vert Pie — With sweet herbs. 

Aux Cressons — With watercresses. 

Aux Rognons — With kidneys. 

Avena — Oats. 

Baha — A very light plum cake, or sweet 
French yeast cake. 

Bain-marie — An open vessel which has a 



TERMS USED IN COOKING 2\3 

loose bottom for the reception of hot water. It 
is used to keep sauces nearly at the boiling- 
point without reduction or burning. 

BannocU — Primitive cake without yeast; 
cooked on a griddle ; in Scotland made of peas, 
barley, and oatmeal ; in America of corn meal. 

Barde — A thin slice of bacon fat, placed over 
any substance specially requiring the assistance 
of fat without larding. 

Barbecue — To roast any animal whole, 
usually in the open air. 

Barm — The scum from fermented malt 
liquors, used as yeast. 

Baron of Beef — The two sirloins not cut 
down the back. Formerly a favorite dish in 
England. 

Baron of Lamb — The entire loin, not divided 
at the backbone, with the upper part of both 
legs. 

Batteric de Cuisine — Complete set of cooking 
apparatus. 

Bavaroise a I'eau — Tea sweetened with syrup 
of capillaire, and flavored with a little orange- 
flower water. 

Bavaroise an Lait — Made in the same way as 
the above, but with equal quantities of milk and 
tea. 

Bechamel — A rich white French sauce. 

Beignet or Fritter (see Fritter). 



214 TERMS USED IN COOKING 

Bearnaise — A rich egg sauce flavored with 
tarragon, named from Beam, birthplace of 
Henry IV. of France. 

Becasses — ^Woodcock. 

Bisque — A sonp made of shellfish. 

Blanch — To parboil, to scald vegetables, nuts, 
etc., in order to remove the skin. 

Blanquette — Any white meat warmed in a 
white sauce thickened with eggs. 

Blonde de Veait — Double veal broth used to 
enrich soups and sauces. 

Bouchees — Very small patties. 

Bceuf — Beef. 

Bouillahaisse — Several kinds of fish boiled 
quickly and highly seasoned with onion, orange 
peel, saffron, oil, etc. 

Bouquet — A spray of each of the herbs used 
in seasoning, rolled up in a spray of parsley, 
and tied securely. 

Bouille — Broth made from beef. 

Bouilli — Beef stewed generally in one large 
piece, and served with a sauce. 

Bourguignote — A ragout of truffles. 

Bouillon — A clear beef soup. 

Braise — Meat cooked in a closely covered 
stewpan to prevent evaporation, so that the 
meat retains not only its own juices, but those 
of any other articles, such as bacon, herbs, 
roots, and spices put with it. 



TERMS USED IN COOKING 215 



Braisiere — A saucepan with ledges to the lid 
so that it will contain firing. 

Bridle — To truss fowls with a needle and 
thread. 

Brawn — Head cheese. 

Bretonne — A puree of red onions. 

Brioche — A sponge cake similar to Bath buns. 

Brioche Paste — Cakes made yeast. 

Broche — A spit. 

Brochette — A skewer. 

Brunoise — A brown soup or sauce. 

Buisson — A cluster or bush of small pastry 
piled on a dish. 

Bubble and Squeak — A dish of vegetables, 
hash, and meat. 

Buttock — A round of beef. 

Cafe au Lait — Coffee with milk. 

Cafe noir — Black coffee. 

Caille — Quail. 

Callipash — The glutinous portion of the 
turtle found in the upper shell. 

CaUipee — The glutinous meat of the turtle's 
under shell. 

Canard — Duck. 

Cannelons—FufS paste baked round a form 
of cardboard shaped like a cane. 

Cannelons of Meat — Highly seasoned and 
minced meat baked in the form of a roll. 

Capers — The unopened buds of a shrub 



2J6 TERMS USED IN CCX)KING 

grown in southern Europe. Pickled and used 
in sauces. 

Capon — A chicken castrated for the purpose 
of impro\^ng the quality of the flesh. 

Capilotade — A hash of poultry. 

Caramel — A syrup of burnt sugar named 
after Count Caramel, discoverer of the seventh 
degree of cooking sugar used for flavoring cus- 
tards, etc., and coloring soups. 

Car do on — A vegetable resembling the arti- 
choke. 

Casserole — A covered stone dish in which is 
cooked and served (sometimes applied to a 
form of pastry) rice or macaroni filled with a 
fricassee of meat or puree of game. 

Civet — A dark, thickish stew of hare or ven- 
ison. 

Champignons — Mushrooms. 

Charlotte — A preparation of cream or fruit 
formed in a mould, lined with cake or fruit. 

Chartreuse — Game, fillets, etc, moulded in 
jelly and surrounded by vegetables. Invented 
by the monks at the monastery of Chartreuse. 

Chervil — The leaf of a European plant used 
for salad. 

Chillis — Red peppers. 

Chine — A piece of the backbone of an animal 
cut with the adjoining parts cut for cooking. 
Usiially applied to pork. 



TERMS USED IN COOKING 2J7 

Chives — An herb allied to the onion family. 

Chou-ficur — Cauliflower. 

Chutney — A hot acid sauce made from 
apples, tomatoes, raisins, cayenne, ginger, gar- 
lic, shallots, salt, sugar, lemons, and vinegar. 

Citron — The rind of a fruit of the lemon 
species, preserved in sugar. 

Cock-a-leekie — A soujj used in Wales made 
from fowls and leeks. 

Collar — To cure meat in spiced brine. 

Collops — Meat cut in small pieces. 

Compiegne — Sweet French yeast-eake with 
fruit. 

Confitures — Sweetmeats of sugars, fruits, 
syrups, and essences. 

Consomme — Clear soup. 

Compote — Fruit stewed in syrup. 

Cream Sugar and Butter — Is to rub sugar 
into the butter until they are well incorporated; 
then beat light and smooth. 

Coulis — A rich smooth gravy used for color- 
ing, flavoring, and thickening certain soups. 

Coriander — A plant cultivated for its tender 
leaves. Used in soups and salads and in mak- 
ing curry powder. 

Cornichons — Pickles. 

Cotelettes — Cutlets. 

Creme Brulee — Brown sugar or caramel with 
cream. 



2J8 TERMS USED IN COOKING 

Creole, a la — ^^Vith tomatoes. 

Crivettes — Shrimp. 

Crimp — To cause to contract, or render more 
crisp. 

Croquettes — Minced meat, fish, or fowl mixed 
with sauce, rolled in shape, and covered with 
egg and bread crumbs and fried crisp. 

Croustade — A kind of patty of bread crust or 
prepared rice. 

Crouton — A sippet of fried or toasted bread. 

Crumpet — Eaised muffins baked on a griddle. 

Cuisine masquee — Highly seasoned or un- 
usually mixed dishes. 

Cuisson — Method of cooking meats in the 
liquor in which they have been boiled. 

Cuen de hceuf — Ox tails. 

Currants — Dried currants are the small black 
grapes grown at Corinth. 

Curries — Stews of meat or fish, seasoned with 
curry powder. 

Curry Poivder — A compound of coriander 
seed, tumeric, ginger, pepper, cummin seed, car- 
damoms, caraway seed, and cayenne. 

De, d'—Oi, as filet de bceuf, fillet of beef. 

Dariole — A sweet pate baked in a mould. 

Dauhe — Meat or fowl stewed in sauce. 

Dauhiere — An oval stewpan. 

Dejeuner — Breakfast. 

Desosser — To bone. 



TERMS USED IN COOKING 219 

Demi-tasse — A small cup (applied to after- 
dinner coffee). 

Dorure — Yolks of eggs, well-beaten, for cov- 
ering meat and other dishes. 

Devilled — Seasoned hotly. 

Dinde — Turkey. 

Eclaire^—Fa^iYY or cake filled with cream. 

En Coquille — Served on shells. 

En Papillote — Served on papers. 

Endive — A plant of composite family used 
as salad. 

Entrees — Small made dishes served between 
courses at elaborate dinners. 

Entremet — Second course side-dishes, in- 
cluding vegetables, eggs, sweets. 

Epigrams — Small fillets of poultry, game, 
and lamb prepared as an entree. 

Escalopes — Collops. 

Espagnole — A rich brown Spanish sauce. 

Epinards — Spinach. 

Eperlans — Smelts. 

Faisan — Pheasant. 

Fagot — A small bunch of parsley and thymt 
tied up with a bay leaf. 

Fa rce — Force-meat. 

Fausse Tortiie — Mock turtle. 

Feuilletage — Puff paste. 

Financier c — An expensive, highly flavored, 
mixed ragout. 



220 TERIVIS USED IN COOKING 

Flamber — To singe fowl or game after pick- 
ing. 

Flan — A French custard. 

Flancs — The side-dishes of large dinners. 

Fanchonettes and Florentines — Small pas- 
tries covered with a meringue. 

Fillets — Long, thin pieces of meat or fish 
generally rolled and tied. 

Finnan Haddock — Haddock smoked and 
dried. Named from Findon, in Scotland, where 
they are obtained in perfection. 

Flans, Darioles, and Mirltons — French 
cheese cakes. 

Foie — Liver. 

Foncer — To put in the bottom of a saucepan 
thin pieces of veal or bacon. 

Fondue — A light and pleasant preparation of 
cheese. 

Foivl a la Marengo — A fowl browned in oil 
and stewed in rich stock, seasoned with wine. 

F raise — Strawberry. 

Fricandeaux — Boned pieces of veal chiefly 
cut from the thick part of the fillet, and of not 
more than two or three pounds each, larded and 
browned and stewed in stock. 

Fromage — Cheese. 

Fricassee — Chicken or veal stewed with white 
sauce, and mushrooms, etc., used as accesso- 
ries. 



TERMS USED IN COOKING 221 

Fritter — Anything encased in a covering of 
batter and fried. 

Gateau — Cake. 

Ga ufres — Waflfles. 

Gelee — Jelly. 

Genevese Sauce — A white sauce made of 
white stock, highly seasoned, and served with 
boiled fish. 

Glaze — Stock boiled down to the thickness of 
jelly, and used to improve the appearance of 
braised dishes. 

Glace — Covered with icing. 

Godiveaux — Various varieties of force-meat. 

Gras — With, or of, meat; the reverse of 
maigre. 

Gnocchi — A light, savory dough, boiled; 
served with Parmesan. 

Goulasch — A Hungarian beef stew, highly 
seasoned. 

Gratins — Served in a rich sauce with browned 
crumbs. 

Grilled — Broiled over open coals. 

Gratiner — To cook like a grill. 

Galantine— Meat boned, stuffed, made into a 
roll, boiled, and usually served cold in slices. 

Groseilles — Currants. 

Giimho — A dish into which okra is intro- 
duced and served in it, or prepared sepa- 
rately. 



222 TERMS USED IN COOKING 

Gruyere — A brand of fancy cheese. 

Haggis — Heart. 

Haricot — Small bean, or a stew in which 
meats and vegetables are cut small. 

Hodge-Podge — A Scotch meat stew. 

Hors-d'ceuvres — Kelishes, sardines, ancho- 
vies. 

Homard — Lobster. 

Huitres — Oysters. 

Jar diner e — Prepared and served with vege- 
tables. 

Julienne — A clear soup with shredded vege- 
tables. 

Jamb on — Ham. 

Koumiss — Milk fermented with yeast. 

Kahob — An India meat dish prepared with 
curry. 

Kirsch-Kuchen — German cherry cake. 

Kippered — Dried or smoked. 

Kohl Cannon — Minced cabbage and potatoes 
seasoned with butter, pepper, and salt. 

Kromeskies — Meat or fish minced and dipped 
in batter and fried crisp. 

Lardon — A piece of bacon in salt pork used 
for larding purposes. 

Lit — Thin slices or layers. 

Laitu e — Lettuce. 

Lentils — A variety of the bean family used 
in soups. 



TERMS USED IN COOKING 223 

Liason — The mixture of eggs and cream used 
to thicken soup, etc. 

Macedoine — A mixture of vegetables or fruits 
moulded in jelly. 

Madeline — A kind of plum cake. 

Maigre — Dishes for fast days, made without 
meat. 

Marinade — The liquor in which fish or meat 
is steeped before cooking. 

Mask — To cover meat with a rich sauce. 

Mango — A kidney - shaped semi - tropical 
fruit used green for pickling and ripe for 
dessert. 

Manna Kroup — Flour made from rice and 
wheat mixed frequently with the yolk of egg 
and saffron. 

Matelote — A rich fish stew flavored with 
wine. 

Mayonnaise — Cold sauce or salad dressing 
composed of yolk of eggs, oil, vinegar, and sea- 
soning. 

Marrons — Chestnuts. 

Menu — A bill of fare. 

Majarines — Ornamental entrees of force- 
meat and fillets of poultry, game, or fish. 

Meringue — The white of eggs beaten together 
with powdered sugar to a froth. 

Mignonnette Pepper — Coarsely ground pep- 
percorns. 



?24 TERMS USED IN COOKING 

Mirepoix — A rich brown gravy used in brais- 
ing meats. 

Miroton — Meat cut in somewhat larger pieces 
than for collops. 

Morel — A species of mushroom. 

Mouiller — To add broth, water, or other 
liquid while the cooking is proceeding. 

Morue — Codfish. 

Mouton — Mutton. 

Mousse — Ice cream made with whipped 
cream. 

Nectarine — Variety of small peach having a 
smooth skin. 

Nougat — Candy made from sugar and 
almonds. 

Nouilles — Strips of paste made from eggs 
and flour, dried and used for soup — or sepa- 
rately. 

Noyau — A cordial. 

CEufs — Eggs. 

Oignons — Onions. 

Okra — Seed pods from a plant grown in the 
South, and used for soup and pickles. 

Panais — Parsnips. 

Panada — Soaked bread, prepared to be used 
with force-meat. 

Paner — To cover fried or baked foods with 
bread crumbs. 

Panure — Any entree that is bread-crumbed. 



TERMS USED IN COOKING 225 



Papillote — The pieces of paper greased with 
oil and butter, and fastened round a cutlet by 
twisting the edges. 

Pate — A small pastry, usually a pie. 

Pate do fois gras — A composition of goose 
liver, truffles, etc. 

Paupiettes — Slices of meat rolled. 

Piece de Resistance — The principal joint of 
the dinner (the roast). 

Pilau — A dish of meat and rice (East Indian 
or Turkish). 

Pimento — Jamaica pepper. 

Perdreux — Partridge. 

PersiUade — With parsley. 

Petit pains — Little bread. 

Petit pois — Little peas. 

Piqeonnaux — Squab. 

Piquer — To lard with strips of bacon fat. 

Poelee — Stock for boiling turkeys, fowls, 
vegetables, instead of water, so as to render it 
less insipid. 

Potage — Soup. 

Printaniers — Early spring vegetables. 

Puree — A thick soup rubbed through a 
sieve. 

Profiterolles — Light ])a8try with cream in- 
side. 

Pimolas — Olives stuffed with Pimentos. 

Piquante — A highly seasoned sauce. 



226 TERMS USED IN COOKING 

Pistachio — A greenish nut resembling the 
almond, Qsed for flavoring and coloring. 

Polenia — A mush made from Indian meal or 
of ground chestnuts. 

Pota/fe — A family soup. 

Potpnirri — A highly seasoned stew of meat, 
spices, and vegetables, etc. 

Quenelle — A delicate force-meat used in 
entreefi. 

Ragout — Stewed meat in rich gravy. 

Relives — The remove dishes. 

Remoulade^-^sAQ.di dressing. 

Ramekins — Preparation of cheese-puff paste 
or toast. 

Ratafias — Almond cakes; a liquor flavored 
with nuts. 

Ravigote — Highly flavored green herb sauce. 

Rifacimento — Meat dressed a second time. 

Rechauffe — Anything warmed over. 

Ris de veaii — Sweetbreads. 

Rissoles — Small shapes of puff paste filled 
with a mixture, and fried or baked. Or balls 
of minced meat, egged or crumbed, and fried 
till crisp. 

Risotto — An Italian dish of rice and cheese. 

Roquefort — A brand of fancy cheese. 

Roti — A roast. 

Roulade — Meat stuffed, skewered into a roll, 
and cooked. 



TERMS USED IN COOKING 227 



Roiix — Butter and flour stirred together to a 
cream and cooked. A white roux is made with 
uncooked flour ; a brown roux with flour that is 
browned. 

Salmi — Game cut up and warmed over in 
gravy with olives, mushrooms, etc. 

Saute — To fry lightly in a little hot fat or 
butter. 

Salpicon — A mince of poultry, ham, and other 
meats used for entrees, or it may be a mixture 
of fruits in a flavored syrup. 

Savoy Cakes — Lady fingers. 

Sauce Piquante — An acid sauce. 

Scones — Scotch cakes of meal or flour. 

Shallot — A variety of onion. 

Soubise Sauce — ^A puree of white onion 
named after Prince Soubise. 

Souffle — A very light pudding or omelet — 
the name means puffed-up. 

Sofj — A Japanese sauce prepared from the 
seeds of Dolichos Soja, used to color soups and 
sauces. 

Serviette, ci la — Served in a napkin. 

Sippets — Small pieces of bread soaked in 
stock, fried in fat or toasted and served with 
meats as garnishing or border. 

Stock — The essence extracted from meat. 

Sultanas — White or yellow seedless grapes, 
grown in Corinth. 



228 TERMS USED IN COOKING 

Supreme — White cream gravy made of 
chicken. 

Tamis or Tammy — A strainer of fine woolen 
canvas, used for soups and sauces. 

Tarragon — An herb from which vinegar is 
made — leaves used also for seasoning. 

Tendrons de Veau — The gristle from the 
breast of veal stewed in stock, and served as an 
entree. 

Tartar e — A sauce, served with fish. 

Timhale -A sort of pie made in a mould and 
turned out while hot. 

Tarte — A tart baked in a shallow tin. 

Trifle — Dish made from sponge cake, maca- 
roons, jam, etc., brandy, wine, etc. 

Trousser — To truss a bird. 

Truffles — A species of fungus growing below 
the soil — found in France — used to give a deli- 
cate flavor, also for garnishing. 

Truite— Trout 

Turbans — Ornamental drum-shaped cases for 
entrees. 

Tutti-Frutti — A mixture of fruit usually 
served in an ice. 

Vanilla — The bean of a Mexican plant, from 
which the vanilla extract is made. Sometimes 
the bean is pared in to use for flavoring. 

Veau — Veal. 

Velonte — A smooth white sauce. 



TERMS USED IN COOKING 229 

Vin — Wine. 

Vinaigrette Sauce — With vinegar sauce. - 

Vol-au-Vent — A crust of very light puff paste' 
to he filled with oysters, chicken, etc., prei)ared 
in a cream sauce. 

Vanner — To make a sauce smooth by lifting 
it high in large spoonfuls and letting it fall 
quickly. 

Zwieback — Bread, toasted twice. 

Zest of Lemon — The grated or shaved rind of 
lemon. 



INDEX 



Aocompnnimpnts, ii. 298 
Acids, effoct of vinegar, 

lemon, etc., ii. 101 
Adelaide sandwich, iv. 157 
After-dinner speech, v. 179 

speech exemplified, v. 188 
Afternoon-tea costume, i. 59 

evolution of, etc., i. 53 

guests, i. .59 

hjostess' duties, i. 59 

making- the tea, i, 56 

" pink teas," etc., i. 61 

pouring and serving, i. 56 

series of, i. 59 

table, i. 54 

when elaborate, i. 57 

when elaborate menu, i. 58, 
{•)0 

when very elaborate, i. 60 
Alaska baked ice cream, iv. 

322 
Albumen, ii. 9, 10 
Ale punch, v. 113 
Ale sangaree, v. 86 
Almond and orange ice, iv. 
329 

cake, iv. 180 

chocolate drops, iv. 339 

creams, iv. 339 

jumbles, iv. 203 

milk soup, iii. 34 

sauce for pudding, iv. 313 
Amateur Theatricals (see 

*' Dramatics "). 
Amber, consomme, iii. 14 
"America" (toast), v. 207 
American soup, iii. 83 
Ammonia, not to be used 
carelessly for silver, ii. 
346 
Amontillado, v. 154 
Analysis of wines, v. 132 



Anchovies, iii. 160 

and olives, iv. 251 

eggs stuffed with, iii. 338 

stuffed, iv. 250 

substitute for caviare, iv 
252 
Anchovy paste, iv. 252 

sandwich, iv. 161 

sauce, iii. 194 
Angel food, iv. 179 
Animal diet, ii. 108 
Anise-seed cakes, iv. 202 
Apples, baked, iv. 121 

in pastry, iv. 124 

steamed, ii. 195; ii. 227 

stewed, iv. 123 

stewed in whiskey, iv. 122 
Apple butter, iv. 274 

butter, .Vmerican, iv, 123 

dumpling, baked, iv. 275 

gems, iv. 146 

mange, iv. 301 

meringue, iv. 291 

pie, green, iv. 275 

pie, Dutch, iv. 276 

pie, cream, iv. 276 

pudding. English, iv. 282 

punch, v. 113 

sauce, iv. 124 

snow (No. 1), iv. 298; iv. 
302 

soup, iii. 104 

tapioca pudding, iv. 289 

toddy, V. 72 

water, ii. 284; iv. 259 
Apricot brandy, v. 47 

custard, iv. 300 

fritters, iv. 163 

ice cream, iv. 316 
Arabian coffee, v. 30 
" Arf and arf," v. 118 
Arrack punch, v. 93, 105 



231 

The Index comprises sixty-two full pages, and ia the most com- 
plete and convenient compilation of the kind ever devoted to the 
subject of Cooking. 



232 



INDEX 



Arrowroot jellj', iv. 260 

souffle, iv. 294 
Artichokes a I'ltalienne, iv. 
68 

fried, iv. 66 

Jerusalem, fricasseed, iv. 
67 

Jerusalem, stewed, iv. 66 

puree of Jerusalem, iv. 68 

stewed in gravy, iv. 66 

stuffed, iv. 67 
Asparagus, ii. 215 

a la creme, iv. 65 

boiled, iv. 64 

fricasseed, iv. 65 

omelet, iii. 342 

scalloped, iv. 63 

soup, cream of, iii. 50 

tips, consomme with, iii. 16 
Aspic game or poultry, iii. 
324 

jelly, iv. 268 
Assembly dances, invitations, 

1. 132 
"At Home," i. 57 

menu, i. 58, 60 
Avena, steamed, ii. 225 

Bacon, ii. 31 

baked eggs and, iii. 336 

boiled, iii. 265 

broiled, iii. 265 

calf's liver and, iii. 279 

and calf's liver, iii. 265 

and eggs, iii. 266 

mushrooms with, iv. 37 
Baked apples, iv. 121 

bass with shrimp sauce, iii. 
154 

beans, Boston, iii. 257 

bean soup, iii. 82 

beefsteak a la Jardiniere, 
iii. 230 

bluefish, iii. 116 

calf's head, iii. 275 

calf's heart, iii. 330 

carp, iii. 165 

cauliflower, iv. 69 

chicken, iii. 296 

chowder, iii. 117 



Baked cod's head, iii. 120 

crabs, iii. 171 

creamed codfish, iii. 118 

eels, iii. 150 

egg-plant, iv. 59 

eggs and bacon, iii. 336 

eggs and tomatoes, iv. 104 

fish, ii. 187 

fresh mackerel with oyster 
dressing, iii. 131 

fried chicken, iii. 297 

halibut with lobster sauce, 
iii. 138 

mushrooms, iv. 37 

omelet, iii. 345 

partridges, iii. 316 

pickerel, iii. 164 

pike in sour cream (Ger- 
man), iii. 162 

puree, iv. 51 

red snapper, iii. 155 

salmon-trout, iii. 142 

salt mackerel, ii. 187 

sausages, iii. 256 

shad, iii. 132 

smelts, iii. 146 

soft clams, iii. 179 

tomatoes with eggs, iv. 101 
Baking, casserole, ii. 177 

process, ii. 185 

time table, ii. 295 
Balls, i. 125 

assembly dances, i. 153 

barn dances, i. 155 

chaperon, i. 150, 168 

Cinderella dances, i. 153 

costume, i. 154 

cotillon, i. 157 

dancing, i. 145 

dancing classes, i. 157 
dancing introductions, i. 145 

debutante dances, i. 1G2 

debutante invitations to, i. 
131 

dinner dances, i. 153 

dress for men and women, 
1. 174 

essentials in arrangement, 

i. 139 
extra guests, i. 136 



INDEX 



233 



Balls— floor, i. 141 

" Cierman," i. 157 

host, duties of, i. 163 

hostess, duties of, i. 165 

house dances, i. 152 

interval between dances, i. 
i:,o 

invitations, i. 120, 127 

invitations may be written, 
i. 129 

music, i. 141 

j)ro<»Tanimes for dance, i. 
144 

seats, i. 144 

subscription, i. 151 

supjiers, i. 171 
Ballroom etiquette — arrival, 

entrance, etc., i. 144 
Ballotin of lamb, with preen 

])eas, ;ii. 24() 
Balnamoon skink, or Irish 

soup, iii. 32 
Banana fritters, iv. 164 

shortcake, iv. 178 
Banbury tarts, iv. 277 
Barbadoes punch, v. 113 
Barley pruel, iv. 259 

soup, cream of, iii. 43 

water, iv. 259 
Bass, baked, with shrimp 

sauce, iii. 154 
Basting, ii. 189 
Basto, V. 155 
Hatters, ii. 190 
Bavarian cream, iv. 309 
Bean and tomato soup, iii. 79 

(baked) soup, iii. 82 

(dried) soup, iii. 09 

(lima) puree, iii. 00 

(red) puree, iii. 59 

(mock turtle) soup, iii. 80 

soup, iii. 82 

(tomato and) soup, iii. 75 

(white) soup, iii. 73 
Beans, boiled, ii. 218 

Boston baked, iii. 257; iv. 
46 

dried, ii. 221 

French, a la malt re d'hOtel, 
Iv. ^l 



Beans, fricasseed, iv. 44 
haricot (lima beans), a la 

maitre d'hotel, iv. 42 
haricot, with onions, iv. 43 
kidney, iv. 45 
lima, a la poulette, iv. 43 
mashed, iv. 44 
striufi^ beans, ii. 215 
string-, boiled, iv. 40 
string- (cream sauce), iv. 41 
string-, with g-ravy, iv. 41 
Beauregard cod, iii. 121 
Bechamel sauce, iii. 195 
Beef a la mode, iii. 215 
and chicken stock, iii. 8 
ap])ca7-ance of g-ood, ii. 20 
balls, iii. 220 
bouillon, iii. 9 
braised, recipe, ii. 175 
brisket of, stewed, iii. 233 
corned, iii. 2:u 
creamed dried, iii. 225 
curried, iii. 220 
dried, with eggs, iii. 225 
fillet of, brai.sed, iii. 233 
fore-quarter of, ii. 27 
fricandeau of, iii. 236 
fritters, iii. 235 
hash, iii. 218 
heart, boiled, iii. 232 
hind-quarter of, ii. 27 
hot-])ot, iii. 231 
how divided bv butcher, ii. 

27 
juice, ii. 289 
liver, breaded, iii. 223 
loaf, iii. 227 
most nourishing of meats, 

ii. 22 
mutton, and veal broth, iv. 

200 
names of different parts, 

ii. 127 
|)atties, meat for, iii. 235 
porterhouse steaks, ii. 27 
pot roast, ii. 175 
prime ribs, ii. 27 
ragout of, iii. 219 
rechaufTe u la Jardiniere, 

iii. 226 



234 



INDEX 



Beef, rissoles of, iii. 218 

roast, recipe, " don'ts," ii. 
190 

rolled boiled, iii. 230 

sides of, ii. 27 

sirloin, ii. 27 

smothered, iii. 228 

soup, iii. 10, 21 

soup (French method), ii. 
144 

spiced pressed, iii. 220 

steaks, ii. 27 

steaks, short, ii. 27 

steak and onions, iii. 209 

steak, baked, a la Jar- 
diniere, iii. 230 

steak pie, iii. 293 

steak with mushrooms, iii. 
208 

stew, recipe, ii. 162 

stew with dumplings, iii. 
216 

tea, ii. 281, 289; iv. 260 

tea, hot, V. 33 

tenderloin of, ii. 27 

tong'vie, braised (Xo. 1), iii. 
232 

tongue fillets, sauteed, iii. 
329 
Beer soup (German method), 

iii, 102 
Beet greens with young 
beets, iv. 57 

soup, cream of, iii. 38 
Beets, iv. 56 

boiled, ii. 22C 

creamed, iv. 58 

pickled, iv. 58 

selecting, washing, cook- 
ing, ii. 212 
Belgian hare, ii. 40 

hare, stuffed and roasted, 
iii. 316 
Bernaise sauce, iii. 200 
Beverages, ii. 205 

apricot brandy, v. 47 

beef tea, v. 33 

blackberry wine, v. 41 

cherry brandy, v. 46 

cherry wine, v. 47 



Beverages — chocolate, v. 32 

cider, v. 35 

cocoa, V. 32 

cocoa shells, v. 32 

coffee, various styles, v. 
29, 30 

cowslip wine, v. 43 

curagoa, v. 45 

currant wine, v. 42 

dandelion wine, v. 48 

elderberry wine, v. 44 

ginger beer, v. 37, 38 

ginger cordial, v. 46 

grape juice, v. 49 

grape wine, v. 48, 49 

horse's neck, v. 40 

koumiss, v. 33 

lemonade, various styles, r. 
38, 39 

limeade, v. 35 

May wine, v. 43 

milk and seltzer, v. 33 

milk shake, v. 33 

nectar, v. 40 

orangeade, v. 36 

orange sherbet, v. 40 

pineapple water, v. 37 

rhubarb wine, v. 49 

root beer, v. 34 

Saratoga cooler, v. 38 

seidlitz water, v. 34 

soda cocktail, v. 40 

soda nectar, v. 40 

tea punch, v. 32 

tea, various stj^les, v. 31 
Bimbo punch, v. 104 
Biscayan cod, iii. 119 
Biscuit, ii. 234; iv. 324 

glace, iv. 326 

tortoni, iv. 328 
Bishop, V. 89 
Bisque, cheese, iii. 57 

chicken, iii. 53 

clam, iii. 52 

corn, iii. 57 

of crabs, iii. 56 

of halibut (No. 1), iii. 53 

of lobster, iii. 55 

mock, iii. 58 

oyster, iii. 55 



INDEX 



235 



Bisque, salmon, iii. 54 

tomato (No. 1), iii. 58 
Bitters and liquors, v. 172 
Black bass, boiled, with 

cream gravy, iii. 153 
Blackberry pudding, iv. 290 

wine, V. 41 
Black stripe, v. 122 
Blanching, ii. 20.3 
Blancmange, Irish moss, com 

corn starch, ii. '^'.lO 
Blanquette of lamb, iii. 
245 

of veal, with cucumbers, 
iii. 282 
Bloaters, broiled, iii. 15G 
Blue blazer, v. 79 
Bluefish. baked, iii. 116 

broiled, iii. 115 
Bohemian ice cream, iv. 318 
Boiled asparagus, iv. G4 

bacon, iii. 265 

beef, rolled, iii. 230 

beef's heart, iii. 232 

beets, iv. 58 

black bass, with cream 
gravy, iii, 153 

cabbage, iv. 76 

calves' tongue, iii. 273 

carrots, iv. 62 

celery, iv. 60 

dinner, old-fashioned, iii. 
224 

eggs, iii. 333 

fresh ccftlfish. iii. 122 

halibut, iii. 138 

leg of mutton, iii. 239 

mutton, recijxs ii. 156 

parsnips, iv. 39 

potatoes, recipe, ii. 155 

red snapper, iii. 155 

salmon, iii. 141 

salmon-trout, iii. 143 

sausages, with white wine, 
iii. 257 

soft-shell crabs, iii. 170 

string beans, iv. 40 

sweetbreads, plain, iii. 286 

sweetbreads with tomato 
sauce, iii. 286 



Boiled water, when not to 
use, ii. 151 
winter squash, iv. 87 
Boiling; clTect in food ele- 
ments, ii. 151 
meat, ii. 25, 154 
meat, effect, ii. 153 
meat for stews and fricas- 
sees, ii. 154 
process, ii. 150 
time table, ii. 297 
vegetables, ii. 155 
vegetables whole in soft 

water, ii. 154 
water containing salt or 

sugar, ii. 153 
water, soft and hard, ii, 
153 
Bonbons, iv. 333 
Boned baked pickerel, iii. 165 
Bones, stock from, iii. 7 
Boning, ii. 203 
recipe, ii. 204 
Boonekamp and whiskej', v. 

121 
Bordeaux wfncs, v. 142 
Boston baked beans, iii. 257; 
iv. 46 
brown bread, iv. 135 
Bouillabaisse, iii. 100 
Bouillon, beef. iii. 9 

nutritive value slight, ii. 19 
stimulating ctTect of, ii. 20 
Bouquet of wines, v. 132 
Brain, calf's, breaded, iii. 
274 
sauce, iii. 274 
Braised beef, recipe, ii. 175 
beef's tongues (No. 1), iii. 

232 
fillet of beef. iii. 233 
fillet of Qiiitton, iii. 241 
or smothered sweetbreads, 
iii. 289 , 

Braising process, ii. 174 
Brandy, v. IGl) 
and ginger ale, v. 117 
and gum, v, 118 
and rum punch, v. 90 
aud soda, v. 117 



236 



INDEX 



Brand V fizz, v. 76 

flip "(hot and cold), v. 81, 82 

punch, V. 89 

sangaree, v. 85 

shrub, V. 88 

slinff (hot and cold), v. 77 

straight, v. 116 
Bread, ii. 229 

Boston brown, iv. 135 
Bottle cocktail, v. 53 
Brandy champerelle, v. 70 

cocktail, V. 52 

cocktail, improved, v. 53 

crusta, V. 60 

daisy, v. 61 

ftx, V. 65 

scaflFa, v. 70 

smash, v. 64 

sour, V. 71 

toddy (cold or hot), v. 72 

breakfast rolls, iv. 140 
Bread crumbs, ii. 216 

custard pudding, iv. 292 

dressing for game, iii. 203 

entire wheat, ii. 235 

for turkey, iii. 303 

fried for soup, iv. 148 

Graham, ii. 235 

made with a sponge, ii. 
235 

making, essentials, ii. 229 

making, fermentation, ii. 
233 

nutritive quality, analysis, 
etc., ii. 97 

raised corn bread, ii. 236 

raised muflins, ii. 236 

recipes, ii. 234 

sauce, iii. 201 

sour, how caused, ii. 233 

sticks, iv. 136 

cheese toast, iv. 151 

coffee-bread, iv. 139 

i?^eam toast, iv. 149 

creamed mushroom toast, 
iv. 150 

egg muffins, iv. 145 

English muffins, iv. 142 

fried or French toast, iv. 
149 



Bread, Graham, iv. 134 
Graham mutiins, iv. 144 
Graham rolls, iv. 141 
German toast, iv. 147 
hominy muffins, iv. 144 
hot cross buns, iv, 142 
milk toast, iv. 149 
oatmeal muflfins, iv. 145 
ojster toast, iv. 150 
Parker House rolls, iv. 141 
plain corn, iv. 135 
pulled, iv. 133 
rice muffins, iv. 144 
rusk, iv. 138 
r^'e, iv. 135 

Scotch shortbread, iv. 139 
Scotch soda scones, iv. 139 
Sally Lunn, iv. 138 
Sally Lunn muffins, iv. 144 
toast, buttered, iv. 147 
unfermented, iv. 133 
Virginia corn, iv. 13- 
whole wheat, iv. 133 
zwieback, iv. 150 

Breaded calf's brains, iii. 274 
beefs liver, iii, 223 
veal cutlets, with tomato 
sauce, iii. 268 

Bread pudding, light, iv. 201 

Breakfast, familj' should be 
l)leasant, i. 51 
formal, i. 49 
formal, costume, i. 50 
formal, guests leave almost 

immediately aft^r, i. 50 
formal, menu and senice, 

i. 50 
hominy (boiled), iv. 130 
invitations to, i. 50 
rolls, English, iv. 143 
speech, v. 178 

Breast of lamb, roasted a la 
Milanese, iii. 245 
of veal, stuffed, iii. 272 

" Bride," toast to, v. 200 

Brioche paste, ii. 253 

Brisket of beef, stewed, ill. 
233 

Broehettes, lamb, iii. 247 

Broiled bacon, iii. 265 



INDEX 



237 



Broiled bloaters, iii. 156 

bluetish, iii. 115 

brook trout, iii. 163 

calf's liver, iii. 278 

canvas-back ducks, iii. 30^ 

pfreen corn, iv. 56 

halibut, iii. K^O 

ham, iii. 266 

lamb chops, iii. 249 

mackerel, iii, 129 

mackerel, and tarragon 
butter, iii. VM 

mushrooms, iv. 33 

mutton chops, iii. 2.'i9 

oysters, in the shell, or on 
the half shell, iii. 175 

oysters on toast, iii. 176 

pheasant, iii. :S19 

pork and Chili sauce, iii. 
251 

pork chops, iii. 260 

salt cod, iii. 120 

shad, iii. VM 

smoked salmon, iii. 144 

steak, recipe, ii. 1H3 

sweetbreads with stuffed 
tomatoes, iii. 287 

teal ducks, iii. .W.) 

venison steaks,' iii. .'{21 
Broiling- chickens, time for, 
ii. 1S2 

essentials for, ii. 180 

meat, test for, ii. 182 

meat, use of buttered 
paper, ii. 182 

pan-broilinpr. ii- 183 

time-table for. ii. 184 

time-table, ii. 297 
Rronk trout, liroiled, iii. 16:i 
Broth, beef, mutton, and 
veal, iv. 260 

calves' feet, iv. 262 

chicken, iii. 28; iv. 263 

clear, iv. 261 

mutton, iii. 2S; iv. 266 

Scotch mutton, iii. 30 

veal, iv. 26() 
T?roths, white, with vermi- 
celli, iv. 268 
Brown-bread pudding, iv. 292 



Brown sauce, iii. 193 
Browned potato soup, iii. 78 
Brunette sandwich, iv. 160 
Brunoise soup, iii. 12 
Brusels sprouts, iv. 73 
sprouts, saute, iv. 74 
sprout, consomm6 with, iii. 
16 
Buckwheat cakes, iv. 171 
Buns, hot cross, iv. 142 
Burdwan, Indian, Iii. 306 
Burns, treating-, ii. 344 
Burnt brandy and peach, v. 
121 
sugar (for sauces and 
soups), iii. 107 
Butter, apple, American, iv. 
123 
cakes, iv. 145 
how to keep, ii. 344 
Maitre d'Hotel, iii. 195 
nut, v. 14 

over-salted, bad for cook- 
ing: cheap biitter not 
economical, ii. 71 
Scotch, iv. 333 
sour, how treated, ii. 344 
Buttered toast, iv. 14 

Cabbage, ii. 213 
a la Lilloise, iv. .5 
and bacon, iv. 72 
boiled, ii. 218; iv. 76 
creamed, iv. 73 
how to keep fresh, iv. 75 
soup, cream of, iii. 45 
stuffed, iv. 74 
Swiss, iv. 79 
Cafe au lait, v. 29 
Cake, almonds for, ii. 266 
chcinistry of, Ii. 262 
containing butter baked 
bv moderate heat, ii. 
263 
epfr frosting, ii. 271 
eg-gs, how treated, ii. 266 
frosting, boiled, ii. 270 
gingerbread, ii. :.'7i) 
lemon peel used, ii. 266 
light, ii. 268 



238 



INDEX 



Cake making, ii. 2G2 

molasses, ii, 269 

plain frosting, ii. 271 

plain recipe, ii. 267 

sponge, ii. 269 

sugar for, ii. 266 

sunshine frosting, ii. 271 
Cakes, almond, iv. 180 

angel food, iv. 179 

anise-seed, iv. 202 

apple fritters, iv. 163 

apple gems, iv. 146 

apricot fritters, iv. 163 

banana fritters, iv. 164 

banana shortcake, iv. 178 

Bride's, iv. 180 

buckwheat, iv. 171 

butter, iv. 145 

caramel, iv. 185 

care in getting flour, ii. 266 

care of butter, ii. 265 

care of currants, ii. 265 

cheese, iv. 197 

cherry shortcake, iv. 178 

chocolate cream, iv. 181 

citron, iv. 194 

clam fritters, iv. 162 

cocoanut layer, iv. 181 

corn, iv. 177 

corn fritters, iv. 165 

corn-meal griddle, iv. 170 

cream, iv, 189 

cream pancakes, iv. 174 

currant, iv. 196 

dark fruit, iv. 194 

devil's, iv. 183 

drop, iv. 202 

electric, iv. 190 

English pancakes, iv. 172 

English Avalnut, iv. 184 

fish, iii. 110 

fish and meat fritters, iv. 
163 

flannel cakes, iv. 171 

for card party, iv. 184 

for musical, iv. 182 

fortune, iv. 191 

fritters (batters), iv. 161 

fruit, iv. 186 

gold, iv. 190 



Cakes — Graham gems, iv. 146 
Graham griddle, iv. 168 
griddle, ii. 198 
griddle, Geneva, iv. 169 
griddle, iv. 167 
griddle, with eggs, iv. 168 
hickory nut, iv. 184 
hoe, iv. 177 

hominy griddle, iv. 172 
honigkuchen, iv. 197 
huckleberry, iv. 189 
huckleberrj^ griddle, iv. 169 
hucklebery shortcake, iv, 

178 
Indian griddle, iv, 170 
jelly, iv. 191 
Johnny, iv, 176 
lemon, iv, 191 
lemon cheese, iv. 197 
marbled, iv. 185 
marshmallow, iv. 192 
Mocha, iv. 180 
orange, iv. 192 
orange fritters, iv. 164 
ouster fritters, iv. 162 
pancakes, iv. 172 
pancakes (a la creme), iv. 

173 
pancakes, French, iv. 174 
pancakes, German, iv. 175 
pancakes, plain, iv. 173 
pancakes, snow, iv. 174 
pancakes, without eggs, iv. 

175 
peach fritters, iv, 165 
peach shortcake, iv. 78 
pineapple fritters, iv. 164 
popovers, iv. 176 
puffball fritters, iv. 165 
plaih layer, iv. 183 
pound, iv. 195 
raspberry shortcake, iv. 178 
rice gems, iv. 146 
rice griddle, iv. 170 
rice waffles, iv. 166 
rum, iv. 193 

Russian punch tart, iv. 197 
rye griddle, iv. 168 
shortcake, iv. 177 
silver, ir, 183 



INDEX 



239 



Cakes, small, iv. 201 

snow, iv. 184 

Southern corn pone, iv. 177 

sponge, iv. 193 

strawberry shortcake, iv. 
178 

sunshine, iv. 181 

Thanksgiving- surprise, iv. 
193 

vegetable fritters, iv. 165 

violette, iv. 183 

wedding, iv. 186 

wheat, iv. 167 
Calf's brain's, breaded, iii. 274 

foot consomme, iii. 14 

head, baked, iii. 275 

liver and bacon, iii. 265; iii. 
279 

liver and onions saute, iii. 
279 

liver, broiled, iii. 278 

tongue, boiled, iii. 273 
Calling cards (see " Cards ") 
Calls, on new acquaintances 
before extending invita- 
tion, i. 116 

after funeral, by pallbear- 
ers, i. 116 

after wedding, i. 116 

"At Home": etiquette of 
hostess and guest, i. 122 

by stranger after invita- 
tion to entertainment, i. 
119 
Calling, by women on each 
other after introduction, 
i. 102 
Calls; etiquette for men and 
women, i. 123. 124 

formal, length, i. 123 

frequency of, i. 117 

" not at home," i. 122 

importance of, i. 118 

permission to take a friend 
in making, i. 115 

when to make, i. 113 

returning, i. 117 

women's business, on a 
man, i. 119 
Calves' feet broth, iv. 262 



Calves' feet jelly, iv. 262 
Canadian punch, v. 103 
CanajH' caviare, iv. 25] 
Candies, almond chocolate 
drops, iv. 339 
almond creams, iv. 339 
bonbons, iv. 333 
butterscotch, iv. 333 
chocolate caramels, iv. 334 
Comanche, iv. 338 
cooked cream walnuts, iv. 

335 
cream caramels, iv. 334 
cream cocoanut, iv. 335 
fudges, iv. 337 
general directions, iv. 332 
hickor3'-nut, iv. 336 
how to pull candy, iv. 333 
lemon and peppermint 

drops, iv. 334 
maple sugar caramel, iv. 

337 
nougat, iv. 338 
peanut brittle, iv. 337 
plain taffy iv. 335 
ponouchi, iv. 337 
pojicorn balls, iv. 340 
uncooked creamed nuts, iv. 

336 
velvet molasses, iv. 336 
Canning fruit, iv. 271 
apple Ijutter, iv. 274 
chipped gingered pear, iv. 

272 
jam, iv. 273 
marmalade, iv. 273 
Canvas-back duck, broiled, 
iii. 308 
duck, roasted, iii. 308 
Caper sauce, for boiled mut- 
ton, ii. 156 
sauce for mutton, iii. 201 
Capon, ii. 34-37 

roasted with cream stuff- 
ing, iii. 304 
Caramel filling for cake, iv. 
199 
(for sauces and .soups), iii. 

107 
ice cream, iv. 322 



240 



INDEX 



Caramel pudding, iv. 296 

syrup, ii. 201 
Cards, acknowledging- condo- 
lence or enquiry, i. 108 

announcing- birth, and re- 
plies, i. 110 

" At Home," i. 121 

by man at an " At Home," 
i. 92 

debutante's, 1. 97 

form of, for man, i. 88 

how used by man, i. 91 

in attending receptions, 1. 
185 

married couples', i. 98 

mourning, i. 106 

number to leave in calling, 
i. 91 ^ 

of condolence and inquiry, 

, i. 107 

of introduction, i. 92, 101 

"P. P. C," i. Ill 

professional, not to be used 
in society, 1. 90 
traveller's use of tempo- 
rary address, i. 112 

use of titles, 1. 89 

when left at doors, instead 
of a call, i. 104 

when left by stranger ac- 
companying friend, i. 104 

widow may use her own 
Christian name, i. 95 

woman should not iise hus- 
band's title, i. 94 

writing temporary address 
on, i. 100 

women's " At Home " days, 
i. 96 

women's business calls, i. 
103 

women's, divorced, i. 96 

women's forms, etc., i. 93 

women's, " Jr. " and " Sr.," 
i. 95 

women, number to be left 
in calling, i. 101; i. 99 : 

women's, turning down 
corners, obsolete, i. 98 

women's use of, i. 98 



Cards — women's, widow; use 
of maiden surname, i. 96 
Carp, ii. 49 

baked, iii. 165 
Carrot puree, iii. 60 

soup, iii. 77 
Carrots, ii. 213, 221 
(a la Flamande), iv. 61 
boiled, iv. 62 

how to dress in the Ger- 
man way, iv. 63 

stewed in cream, iv. 63 
Carving, beefsteak, v. 20 

boned chicken, v. 27 

breast of veal, v. 24 

broiled chicken, v. 27 

chicken, boned and broiled, 
V. 27 

chicken or turkey, v. 25 

corned beef, v. 22 

duck, V. 26 

fillet of veal, v. 24 

fish, V. 28 

fish, planked or broiled, t. 
28 

fore-quarter of lamb, v. 23 

goose, V. 23 

ham, V. 23 

hare, v. 27 

haunch of venison, v. 24 

lamb, fore-quarter of, v. 23 

leg of mutton, v. 22 

loin of veal, v. 23 

mutton, leg of, v. 22 

mutton, saddle of, v. 24 

partridge, peasant, quail, v. 
27 

pig, sucking, v. 25 

rabbits, v. 27 

rib roast, v. 20 

saddle of mutton, v. 24 

sirloin roast, v. 20 

steaks, round and rump, v, 
22 

sucking pig, v. 25 

tongue, V. 22 

turkej'^ or chicken, v. 25 

veal, breast of, v. 24 

veal, fillet, v. 24 

veal, loin of, v. 23 



INDEX 



241 



Carving- venison, haunch of, 
V. 24 

woodfock, snipe, and 
plover, V. 27 
Casserole, ii. 177 

of fish, iii. IK! 

rice and meat, ii. 178 

tomato sauce, ii. 178 
Catawba col)bler, v. G7 
Catfish, fried, iii. 104 
Catsup, nmshroom, iv, :J8 

tomato, iv. 258 
Cauliflower, ii. 213 

au {jratin, iv. 70 

bahcd, iv. 69 

boiled with butter sauce, 
iv. 69 

escalloped, iv. 69 

how to cook, iv. G8 

in cheese, iv. 72 

soup, cream of, iii. 51 

with stuflRnR-, iv. 71 

in tomato sauce, iv. 71 
Caveach, mackerel, iii. l.il 
Caviare, anchovies substi- 
tuted for, iv. 252 

canape, iv. 2.")1 
Celery, ii. 2i:f 

boiled, iv. (0 

how to dress, iv. 60 

how to fry, iv. lil 

soup, cream of, iii. 51 
Century Club punch, v. 107 
Cereals, breakfast hominy 
(boiled), iv. 130 

fried hominy, iv. 130 

hominy croquettes, iv. 131 

milk porridpro, iv. 131 

porridpe, oatmeal, iv. 129 
Celerj', stewed (a la creme). 

iv. 60 
Cereals, cookinp, ii. 224 

nutritive value, composi- 
tion, e.c, ii. 96 
Chafiufj-dish supper, sup-pes- 
tions, what to have, i. 
46 

Tecif>es: broiled chicken, v. 
11 

broiled oyster, v. 6 



Chafinpr-<lish — calf's brains 
with scrambled eggs, v. 3 
cheese omelet, v. 9 
clams a la Newburg, v. 3 
crab meat with green pep- 
pers, V. 4 
creamed mushrooms, v. 12 
creamed toast, v. 10 
creamed chicken, v. 11 
creamed codfish, v. 5 
creamed lobster, v. 5 
Deerfoot farm sausages and 

bacon, v. 1 
finnan haddie, v. 12 
French omelet, v. H 
little pigs in blankets, v. 4 
lobster a la Xewburg, v. 5 
nut omelet, v. 9 
omelet, v. 7 

oyster u la Newburg, v. 5 
oyster rarebit, v. 5 
poached eggs with anchovy 

or caviare, v. 1 
preparation of, v. 1 
rum omelet, v. 9 
scrambled eggs, v. 10 
Spanish omelet, v. 8 
sweetbreads a la creme, v 

4 
sweetbread saute, v. 3 
sweet omelet, v. 9 
terrapin, v. 7 
tripe ii la Creole, v. 3 
tripe a la poulette, v. 3 
veal kidney saute, v. 2 
Venetian eggs, v. 2 
Welsh rarebit, v. 10 

Champagne, its classification, 
V. 139 
the discovery of, v. 134 
the production of, v. 133 
punch, v. 98 
sauce for ham, iii. 198 
cobbler, v. 6() 
cocktail, v. 53 
velvet; V. 60 

Charcoal for removing odors, 
etc., ii. 345 

Charlotte russe, iv. 29S 

Cheese, analyses, ii. 84 



242 



INDEX 



Cheese and halibut scallop, 

iii. 141 
and nut sandwich, iv. 154 
bisque, iii. 57 
cream soup, No. 1 and 2, 

iii. 36 
digestibility of, ii. 73 
dishes, recipes, ii. 85 
eggs with, iii. 336 
■fondue, iv. 342 
fritters, iv. 343 
Parmesan cheese and oys- 
ters, iv. 344 
head, iii. 264 
manufacture and varieties 

of, ii. 72-82 
omelet, iii. 342; iv. 343 
pudding, iv. 344 
Welsh rarebit, iv. 340 
Welsh rarebit, No. 2, iv. 

341 
Welsh rarebit, without ale, 

iv. 341 
, sandwich, iv. 153 
sauce, iii. 190 
souffle. No. 2, iv. 342 
straws, iv. 345 
cherry, iv. 344 
very nutritious, ii. 83 
Chemistry for the cook, ii, 

343 
Cherries (raAv), iv. 129 
Cherry brandy, v. 46 
pudding, iv. 290 
shortcake, iv. 178 
wine, V. 47 
Chestnuts, v. 16 

compote of, iv. 112 

consomme, iii. 19 

cream of, soup, iii. 49 

dj-essing, iii. 203 

puree of, iv. Ill 

roasted, iv. 113 

sauce for turkej^ or chicken, 

iii. 196 
stewed, iv. 112 ' 

stuffing, iii. 303 
stuffing for pig, sucking, 

iii. 261 
Chive sauce, iii. 197 



Chicken-and-ham pie, iii. 229 

and rice pudding, iii. 303 

baked, iii. 296 

baked, fried, iii. 297 

beef and, stock, iii. 8 

bisque, iii. 53 

broth, iii. 28 

broth (invalids), iv. 263 

carving, v. 25, 27 

casserole, ii. 177 

cream soup, iii. 41 

curry, iii. 299 

en caserole, iii. 300 

for roasting, ii. 33 

fricassee, ii. 164 

fricasseed, iii. 299 

fried, iii. 296 

gumbo, iii. 30 

gumbo with oysters, iii. 31 

minced, iv 263 

patties, iii. 293 

pie, iii. 291 

pilau of, iii. 300 

potpie, iii. 228 

pressed, iii. 298 

salad rolls, iv. 243 

sandwich, iv. 152 

sauce for sweetbreads, iii. 
198 

saute, ii. 170 

scalloped, iii. 297 

soup quickly made, iii. 12 

soup ^vith leeks and onions, 
iii. 12 

spring chickens, ii. 32, 33 

stuffed with oysters, iii. 301 

terrapin, iii. 298 

timbales, iii. 301, 331 

with sauce (invalid), iv. 263 

with sippets, iv. 264 
Chickens, time for boiling, ii, 

182 
Chili sauce, iv. 258 
Chocolate, ii. 208; v. 32 

cream filling, iv. 198 

filling, iv. 198 

ice cream, iv. 317 

mousse, iv. 325 

pie, iv. 280 

pudding, iv. 290 



INDEX 



243 



Chops, lamb, with champagne 
sauce, iii. 247 

mutton and lamb, ii. 2"J 

mutton, broiled, iii. 2'M 

mutton panbroiled, iii. 240 

pork, broiled, iii, 260 

pjrk, fried, iii. 2fiO 
Chorissa, or Jewish sausage, 

iii. 237 
Chowchow, iv. 2.'^.^ 
Chowder, baked, iii. 117 

(clam), iii. 01 

(corn), iii. OS 

defined, ii. 161 

larmer's chowder, iii. 74 

(fish), iii. H9 

(French fisherman's), iii. 
92 

(potato), iii. 97 

(so^t-clara). iii. 92 
Chutney, Indian, iv. 254 
Cider, v. .35 

cup, V. 59 

punch, V. 114 

soup, iii. 104 
Clam bisque, iii. 52 

chowder, iii. 91 
Clams, ii. 58 

baked soft, iii. 179 

fritters, iii. 179 

(soft) chowder, iii. 92 
Claret, v. 142 

cobbler, v. 67 

punch, V. 94 
Clear soup with noodles, iii. 

13 
Cleaning fish, ii. 44 

poultry, ii. 36 
Cobbler, sherry, champagne, 
catawba, claret, hock, 
sauterne or whiskey, v. 
56, 67, 68 
Cock-a-leekie soup, iii. 66 
Cocktail, absinthe, v. 52 

bottle, V, 53 

brandy and improved 
brandy, v. 52, 53 

champagne, v. 53 
pofTee, V. 54 
Iruit, If. 118 



Cocktail, gin, Old Tom, and 
improved gin, v. 54 

Japanese v. 55 

Jersey, v. 55 

Manhattan, v. 54 

Martinez, v. 55 

morning glory, v. 55 

oyster, iii. 175 

Saratoga, v. 56 

vermouth, and fancy ver- 
mouth, V. 56 

when served at dinner, 
i. 27 

whiskey and improved 
whiskey, v. 5G 
Cocoa, ii. 2p8; v. 32 
Cocoanut, v. 15 
Cocoa shells, v. 32 
Cocoanut filling, iv. 198 

soup, iii. 70 
Cod a la Bechamel, iii. 118 

Beauregard, iii. 121 

Biscayan, iii. 119 

salt, broiled, iii. 120 

salted, with brown butter, 
iii. 119 

tongues, fried, iii. 129 

tongues, poulette, iii. 129 

tongues with black butter 
sauce, 129 

tongues with egg sauce, iii. 
128 
Cod's head, baked, iii. 120 
Codfish a la bonne femme, 
iii. 124 

balls, iii. 122 

boiled, fresh, iii. 122 

cakes, iii. 123 

baked, creamed, iii. 118 

creamed salt, iii. 121 

fillets, Iloilandaise, iii. 123 

hash, iii. 124 

in cream sauce, iii. 124 

maitre d'hotel, iii. 123 

souffle, iii. 127 

stewed, iii. 127 

with macaroni, iii. 125 
ColTee, ii. 280 

after dinner (French), ii 
207 



244 



INDEX 



Coffee, " after dinner," or 
black, V. 29 

Arabian, v. 30 
Coffee-bread, iv. 139 
Coffee, breakfast, v. 29 

cocktail, V. 54 

effects of use of, ii. 20G 

ice cream, iv. 317 

iced, V. 30 

Kirsch, v. 59 

recipes, ii. 205 

vegetarian, v. 30 
Colbert consomme, iii. IS 
Cold meat, vinaigrette of, iii. 
281 

ruby punch, v. 104 

slaw, ii. 240 
Columbia skin, v. 81 
Combinations, ii. 298 
Compote of chestnuts, iv. 112 

of fruit, iv. 128 
Condiments, classified and de- 
fined, ii. 100 
Consomme a I'lmperatrice, 
iii. 18 

almond, iii. 14 

amber, iii. 14 

calf's foot, iii. 14 

chestnut, iii. 19 

Colbert, iii. 18 

curry, iii. 19 

duchess, iii. 18 

spinach, iii. 19 

with asparagus tips, iii. 16 

with egg balls, iii. 15 

with mushrooms, iii. 17 

marrow balls for, iii. 17 

printaniere, iii. 21 

royal, iii. 20 

stock for, iii. 8 

with Brussels sprout, iii. 10 

with cucumber, iii. 16 

with tomato blocks, iii. 20 

with vermicelli, iii. 17 
Cooked snipes (German fash- 
ion), iii. 320 
Cookery for invalids, ii. 279 

for invalids, (see also " In- 
valid cookery ") , iv. 259 

art of, ii. 114 



Cookies, molasses, iv. 202 

plain, iv. 201 
Cooking, definitions of terms, 
V. 212-230 

glossary, v. 212-230 

meats, when to use slow 
fire; object of cooking in 
water, ii. 24 

school, the, object auu 
scope of this volume, ii. 
2-4 

table of average cost of 

material used in, ii. 294 

terms used in, v. 212-230 

time-table for, ii. 29*^ 

twofold object of, ii. 104 

utensils, ii. 310 
Copenhagen, v. 80 
Coquilles of fish (No. 1), iii. 

109 
Cordial, ginger, v, 40 
Corn, iv. 52 

bisque, iii. 57 

bread, plain, iv. 135 

bread, raised, ii. 236 

bread, Virginia, iv. 134 

chowder, iii. 98 

creamed, iv. 54 

escalloped, iv. 52 

fried, iv. 55 

fritters, iv. 53 

green, ii. 214 

green, omelet, iii. 342 

meal mush, boiled, ii. 228 

pudding, iv. 53 

starch blancmange, ii. 290 
Corned beef, iii. 234 
Correspondence, i. 301 

addressing distinguished 
person, i. 309 

addresing the envelope, i. 
308 

commencing a letter, i. 306 

concluding a letter, i. 307 

crests, monograms, etc., i. 
303 

expressions to avoid, i. 302 

mourning stationery, i. 304 

post-onrds. i. 305 

signature to a letter, i. 307 



INDEX 



245 



Correspondence — simplicity, 
i. ."iOS 
stationery, i. 303 
the third person, i. 30") 
Avritten Invitations, i. 309 

Cost, avernfre, of material 
used in coking, ii. 294 

Cotillion, i. I'm 

Cottafi^er's ])ie, iv. 34 

Cottape pnddinjr, iv. 282 

Coiirbonillon, iii. 100 

Conrt-bouillon (for boiling' 
fish), iii. 184 

Cowslip wine, v. 43 

Crab sonp, iii. 9(5 

Crabs, baked, iii. 171 
biscjue of, iii. ^At 
devilled, (No. 1). iii. 170 
soft-shell, ii. ")S 
soft-shell, boiled, iii. 179 
soft-shell, fried, iii. 171 

Cracker raisin pudding, iv. 
288 

Cranberry soup, iii. 84 

Crayfish in jelly, iii. 158 

Cream, ]?avarian, iv. 309 
canary, iv. .{03 
caramels, iv, IJ.'U 
cheese soup. No. 1 and 2, 

iii. 36 
cherry, i''. :?10 
chicken, soup, iii. 41 
chocolate, iv. :iOG 
filling, ii. 200; iv. 198 
frangipane, iv. 304 
honevcomb, iv. 305 
jellyfish, iv. 310 
junket, iv. .lOS 
lemon puff, iv. 308 
lemon whip, iv. 308 
of asparagus soup. iii. ^>0 
of barh-y soup, iii. 43 
of beet soup, iii. 'AH 
of cabbage soui), '•'• '•'' 
of c;nilifl()wer soup. iii. ")1 
of ceh'ry soup. iii. ^\ 
of chestnut soup. iii. 49 
of green pea .soup. iii. ')! 
of lettuce soup, iii. 50 
of mushroom soup, iii. 44 



Cream of pea soup, iii. 38 

ot potato, iii. 44. 

of sago soup, iii. 39 

of .sorrel soup, iii. 43 

of spinach with egg balls, 

. iii. 48 

of turnip soup. iii. 39 

of waterc^es^^, iii. 41 

onion soup, iii. 37 

pie, iv. 2S0 

puffs, ii. 200; iv. 281 

Ilu.ssian, iv. 309 

sauce, iii. 189 

soups, iii. 34 

Swiss, iv. .^03 

velvet, iv. 304 

tomato soup. iii. 37 

whipped, iv. 300 
Creamed beets, iv. 58 

cabbage, iv. 73 

corn. iv. 54 

dried beef, iii. 225 

lobster on toast, iii. 170 

mushrooms, iv, 35 

oysters, iii. 174 

oyster plant, iv. 33 

salt codfish, iii. 121 

shad. iii. 133 

shad roe with mushroomB, 
iii. 136 
Crecy soup, iii. 21 
Croquettes, fish, iii. 112 

hominy, iv. 131 

nut, V.' 16 

roe, iii. 136 

strawberry, iv. 120 

sweetbread, iii. 2SS 

veal, with mushrooms, iii, 
276 
Croustades, lobster, iii. 332 
Croutons, iii, 107; ii. 216 
Crullers, iv. 206 
Crusta, brandy, v. 6C 

whisky, gin, v. 61 
Cucumbers il la poulette, iv. 
81 

consomme with, iii. 10 

how to dress, iv. 83 

mangoes, iv. 79 

pickled, iv. 82 



24b 



INDEX 



Cucumber sauce, iii. 191 
Cucumbers, stewed, iv, 81 
Cucumber, stuffed, iv, 80 
Culture and elegance in the 
home, ii. 316 

wealth not a requisite to, 
ii. 321 
Cup, cider, v. 59 
" Cupful," as a measure, ii. 

292 
Cup, Hebe's, v. 58 
Cups, fruit, iv. 118 

strawberry, iv. 120 
Curagoa, v. 4.^ 

punch, V. 95 
Currant jelly sauce, iii. 197; 
iv. 311 

rolls, iv. 137 

shrub, V. 87 

wine, V. 4^ 
Curried beef, iii. 226 

eggs, iii. 340 

lentils, iv. 46 

mutton, iii. 242 

pork, iii. 250 

tomatoes with okra, iv. 
97 

tomatoes with rice, iv. 97 
Curry, consomme, iii. 19 

of salmon, iii. 143 

chicken, iii. 299 
Custard, boiled, ii. 194 

cold, ii. 291 

pudding, baked, iv. 299 

pudding, boiled, iv. 299 

sauce, iv. 297; iv. 311 

soft, ii. 227 

steamed, ii. 289 
Cutlets (fish), iii. 112 

mutton, and mushrooms, 
iii. 239 

pork, fried, iii. 251 

veal, breaded, with tomato 
sauce, iii. 268 

veal, plain, iii. 268 

vegetable, iv. 70 
Cuvee, the, v. 136 

Daily ration, the choice of, 
ii. 110 



Daisy, brandj', whisky, rum, 

or gin, v. 61, 62 
Dances, refreshments. See 

" Balls " 
Dancing, i. 145 
Dandelion wine, v. 48 
Date pudding, iv. 289 
Debut, i. 162 

invitations, i. 131 
Definitions of terms used in 

cooking, V. 212-230 
Delivering a speech, v. 186 
Departed friend, toast to a, 

V. 204 
Desserts, ii. 277 
Devilled crabs (No. 1), iii. 
171 
halibut, iii. 139 
lobster, iii. 170 
or stuffed eggs, iii. 337 
sausages, iii. 256 
Devil's cake, iv. 183 
Diet, essentials for outdoor 
laborer; for indoor work- 
er, ii. 118 
simple, necessary for very 
young, and very old, ii. 
117 
tables, for varying, ii. 119 
varieties; animal, vege- 
table, and mixed, ii. 106 
Digestibility of cake, of cake 
with butter, ii. 262, 263 
of cheese, ii. 73 
of different meants, ii. 22 
of eggs, ii. 89 
of fish, ii. 43 
of fruits, ii. 99 
of game, ii. 40 
of gruels, ii. 280 
of liquid foods, ii. 279 
of lobster, ii. 58 
of meats and fats, ii. 17 
of milk, ii. 70 
of pork, ii. 31 
of toast, ii. 282 
Dinner dance, i. 130 
dances, i. 153 
family meal, care to make 
attractive, 1. 33 



INDEX 



247 



Dinner, formal i. 1 

formal, announcement, by 
butler, i. 12, 13 

formal, arrangement, 
knives, forks, etc., i. 20 

formal, avoid '* novelties "; 
simplicity desirable, i. 1 

formal, butter not served, 
i. 28 

formal, cancelling accept- 
ance, i. 8 

formal, carving at table, i. 
28 

formal, cocktail, when 
served, i. 27 

formal, cotTee and liqueurs, 
served to ladies in draw- 
ing-room, i. 72 

formal, courses, i. 15 

formal, courses how served, 
i. 16 

formal, expensive way of 
entertaining, i. 3 

formal, finger-bowls, i. 20 

formal, flowers, ribbons, 
etc., i, 22, 23 

formal, guest, adieux to 
hostess, i. 74 

formal, guests, after arri- 
val, i. 12 

formal, guests, assigning 
" partners " at large 
dinners, i. 12 

formal, guest, at table, i. 
73 

formal, guests, duties of, i. 
11 

formal, guests, duty to- 
ward the courses, i. 2S 

formal, guests finding 
seats, i. 71 

formal, going in to. i. 13 

formal, guests, punctual- 
ity, i. 72 

formal, guests, seating of, 
!. 10 

formal, guests, selection of, 
number, etc., i. 10 

formal, host and hostess, 
duties, i. 71 



Dinner, formal, host and 
hostess' duties, i. 11 

formal. introd;ictions of 
guests by hostess, i. 81 

formal, invitations and re- 
plies, i. 3 

formal, invitations, sam- 
ples, i. 6 

formal, invitations should 
not have " R. S. V. P.," 
i. 7 

formal, leaving dining- 
room, i. 72 

formal, lights, i. 23 

formal, men take coffee 
and cigars after women 
have left table, i. 72 

formal, menu, i. 13 

formal, menu cards unde- 
sirable, i. 22 

formal. napkin, folded 
about piece of bread, i. 
21 

formal, napkins, not re- 
folded, i. 29 

formal, name-cards on 
table, i. 22 

formal, notes, i. 28 

formal, postponed, i. 8 

formal, punctuality, i. 12 

formal, removing crumbs, 
i. 28 

formal, replies to invita- 
tions, prompt and defi- 
nite, i. 3 

formal, reply to invitation 
addressed only to host- 
ess, i. 7 

formal, serving, i. 24 

formal, table arangements, 
i. 19 
formal, two desserts, i. IS 

formal, waiters' duties, i. 
25 

formal, wineglasses prop- 
erly used with each 
course: temperature of 
wines, i. 30 

formal, wine not necessary, 
i. 28 



248 



INDEX 



Dinner, formal, wine, refus- 
ing, i. 28 

formal, wines, table of, and 
manner of serving, i. 30 

informal, i. 31 

informal, serving, i. 31 
Doughnuts, iv. 206 

German, iv. 206 
Dramatics, i. 187, 191 

general hints, i. 191 

selection of play, perform- 
ers, etc., i. 192 
Drawing poultry, ii. 35 
Drawn butter, iii. 191, 192 
Dressed endive, iv. 110 
Dressing, bread, for game, 
iii. 203 

chestnut, iii. 203 

for baked fish, iii. 190 

for salad (see also " Salad 
dressings ") iv. 209 

potato, for duck, iii. 203 
Dried beef with eggs, iii. 225 

beef, creamed, iii. 225 

bean soup, iii. 69 
Drinks, mixing and serving, 

hints, V. 51 

(see " Beverages " and 
" Mixed drinks ") 
Drop cakes, iv. 202 
Dry punch, v. Ill 
Duchess consoname, iii. 18 

eggs, iii. 336 

sauce, iv. 311 

soiip, iii. 34 
Ducks, canvas-back, broiled, 
iii. 308 

canvas-back, roasted, iii. 
308 

care of, before killing, ii. 
37 

carving, v. 26 

in jelly, iii. 312 

ruddy, roast, iii. 308 

salmi of, iii. 310 

selecting in market, ii. 37 

teal, broiled, iii. 309 

wild, ii. 38 
Duke of Norfolk punch, v. 
109 



Ears, pigs', baked, iii. 252 
Economy, true, in buying 

meats, ii. 22 
Edible snails, iii. 180 
Eel soup, iii. 95 
Eels, baked, iii. 150 

braised, roj-al st3'le, iii. 151 

fried, iii. 150 
Eggs and spinach, iii. 339 

au buerre noire, iii. 266 

bacon and, iii. 266 

baked, ii. 91 

baked, and bacon, iii. 336 

baked, and tomatoes, iv. 
104 

boiled, iii. 333 

curried, iii. 340 

devilled or stuiTed, iii. 337 

digestibility of, ii. 89 

dried beef with, iii. 225 

dropped, ii. 90 

duchesse, iii. 336 

floating island, ii. 93 

for invalid, iv. 265 

fried, ii. 91; iii. 335 

fried ham, with, iii. 267 

nutritive value, analysis, ii. 
88 

omelets, plain, foamy, 
meat, baked meat, ii. 92, 
93 

poached, ii. 91; iii. 334 

recipes, how to cook in 
water, ii. 89 

riced, ii. 94 

scallops and, iii. 172 

scrambled, ii. 90; iii. 335 

shirred, iii. 340 

stuffed with anchovies, iii. 
338 

to test freshness, iii. '.'.'.'>^> 

Venetian, v. 2 

with cheese, iii. 33'', 

with tomatoes, iii. 338 
Egg balls, iii. 48 

lemonade, v. 39 

muffins, iv. 145 
Eggnogg, ii. 288 

several kind.s, v. 74, 75 
Egg-plant, baked, iv, 59 



INDEX 



249 



Egrff-plaiit, fried, recipe, ii. 172 
fried, iv. 59 
puffs or fritters, iv. .19 
.stutTed witli nuts, iv. C>0 
Egg- saiuhvicli, iv. l.")2 
sauce, iii. 190 
soup, ii. 144; iii. 87 
sour, V. 72 
wine, iv. 264 
FA Dorado punch, v. 94 
Elderberry wine, v. 44 
Electric cake, iv. 190 
Endive, dressed, iv. 110 
Engaged to be married, i. 2r!0 
to be married, attentions 
to woman, i. 2.'!1 
Engagements, announced V)y 
the bride-to-be, i. 232 
calling after announce- 
ment, i. 2.'!.3 
congratulations, how ac- 
cepted, i 2.].5 
congratulations on an- 
nouncements, i. 234 
demeanor of engaged per- 
sons, i. 240 
entertainments given in 
honor of engaged couple, 
i. 234 
gifts from engaged man to 

fiancee, i. 241 
length of, i. 230 
man should promptly in- 
terview fiancee's parents, 
i. 2.32 
ring, i. 238 

sending a tea-cup to bride- 
elect, i. 234 
English beef soup, iii. 21 

walnut cake, iv. 184 
Entrees, beef tongue fillets, 
ennteed, iii. 329 
chicken timbales, iii. 331 
lobster croustades, iii. 332 
ser\ed at dinner, i. 17 
sheep's tongue in aspic, iii. 

327 
stewed ox kidney, iii. 327 
Epigramnies. lamb, with ai^- 
parngus tips, iii. 248 



Escalloped cauliflower, iv. G9 
corn, iv. 52 
mushrooms, iv. 36 
Espagnole .sauce, iii. 196 

Fagadu bradu, iv. 86 
Faivre's pousse cafe, v. 09 
Family soup, iii. (\>j 
Farina blocks (German), iii. 

10.) 
Farmer's chowder, iii. 74 
Farcied or stuflFed roast beef, 

iii. 213 
Fats, ii. 10 

digestibility of, ii. 18 

for frying and future use, 

ii. 1()(), 109 
uses and values of, ii. 24 
Feet, pigs', boiled, iii. 2.52 
pigs', stuflTed a la Peri- 
gueux, iii. 253 , 
Fete champetre (see "Gar- 
den Parties"), i. 204 
Fig pudding, frozen, iv. .324 
rilee, gumbo, soup, iii. .32 
Fillet of beef, braised, iii. 

233 
Fillets, codfish, HoUandaise, 

iii. 123 
Fillet of flounders, iii. 148 

of mutton, Ijraised, iii. 241 
Filleted sole (a I'ltalienue), 

iii. 159 
Filling, cream, iv. 198 
chocolate cream, iv, 198 
chocolate, iv. 198 
cocoanut. iv. 198 
caramel, for cake, iv. 199 
Fingerbowls, i. 26 

use of. i. 66 
Finnan hnddie, v. 12 
a la Delmonico, iii. 149 
broiled, iii. 150 
Fire, making, ii. 131 
when to use hot, and when 
"slow," in cooking 
meats, ii. 24 
Fish, iii. 108 

a la creme, iii. 110 
a la Paris, iii. 115 



250 



INDEX 



Fish, American, ii. 55 
analysis of, ii. 42 
anchovies, iii. 160; iv. 250 
baked, ii. 48, 60. 187 . 
baked bass with shrimp 

sauce, iii. 154 
baked carp, iii. 165 
baked cod s head, iii. 120 
baked creamed codfish, iii. 

118 
baked eels, iii. 150 
baked fresli mackerel with 

oyster dressing, iii. 131 
baked halibut with lob- 
ster sauce, iii. 138 
baked pickerel, iii. 164 
baked red snapper, iii. 155 
baked salmon-trout, iii. 142 
baked shad, iii. 132 
baked smelts, iii. 146 
baked stuflfing- for, ii. 60 
Beauregard cod, iii. 121 
Biscayan cod, iii. 119 
bluefish, ii. 57 
bluefish (baked), iii. 116 
bluefish (broiled), iii. 115 
boiled, ii. 61 
boiled black bass, with 

cream gravy, iii. 153 
boiled fresh codfish, iii. 122 
boiled halibut, iii. 138 
boiled mackerel (German 

method), iii. 130 
• boiled red snapper, iii. 155 
boiled salmon, Vti. 141 
boiled salmon-trout, iii. 143 
boiling, ii. 44 
boned baked pickerel, iii. 

165 
broiled, ii. 59 
broiled bloaters, iii. 156 
broiled finnan-haddie, iii. 

150 
broiled halibut, iii. 139 
broiled mackerel, iii. 129 
broiled salt cod, iii. 120 
broiled shad, iii. 134 
broiled smoked salmon, iii. 

144 
broiling, ii. 50 



Fish — brook trout, ii. 57 
brook trout, broiled, iii. 163 
cakes, iii. 110 
casserole of, iii. 113 
carp, ii. 49 
catfish, ii. 57 
cheese and halibut scallop, 

iii. 141 
chowder, ii. 63; iii. 89 
cleaning, ii. 44 
cod, ii. 55 

cod a la Bechamel, iii. 118 
codfish a la bonne femme, 

iii. 124 
codfish cakes, iii. 123 
codfish fillets, Hollandaise, 

iii. 123 
codfish hash, iii. 124 
codfish in cream sauce, iii. 

124 
codfish, maitre d'hotel iii. 

123 
codfish souffle, iii. 127 
codfish with macaroni, iii. 

125 
codfish tongues, fried, iii. 

129 
cod tongues, poulette, iii. 

129 
cod tonerues with black 

butter sauce, iii. 129 
cod tongues with egg 

sauce, iii. 128 
coquilles of (No. 1), iii. 109 
crayfish in jelly, iii. 158 
creamed, ii. 62 
creamed lobster on toast, 

iii. 170 
creamed salt codfish, iii. 

121 
creamed shad, iii. 133 
creamed shad-roe with 

mushrooms, iii. 136 
croquettes, iii. 112 
curry of salmon, iii. 143 
cutlets, iii. 112 
devilled, ii. 53 
devilled halibut, iii. 139 
devilled lobster, iii. 170 
digestibility of, ii. 43 



INDEX 



251 



Fish — eels, ii. 57 
eels braised, royal style, 

iii. 151 
egg sauce, ii, 61 
en matelote, iii. 114 
fillet, ii. 47 
linnan haddie ii la Del- 

monico, iii. 149 
flounder, ii. 56 
flounders au gratin, iii, 148 
flounders, flllet of. iii. 148 
flounders, fried (English), 

iii. 148 
fricassee, ii. 47 
(shell) fricasseed snapping 

turtle, iii. 168 
fried catfish, iii. 164 
fried eels, iii. 150 
fried shad-roe, iii. 134 
fried smelts, iii. 147 
(shell) fried soft-shell 

crabs, iii. 171 
i'ryinpf, ii. 46 
haddock, ii. 55 
haddock, boiled, with egg 

sauce, iii. 161 
halibut, ii. 55 

halibut a la Creole, iii. 139 
halibut baked with milk, 

iii. 137 
halibut steak a la Fla- 

niande, iii. 140 
halibut steak baked with 

tomatoes, iii. 140 
herring, ii. 57 
herrings marinaded, iii. 158 
ice cream, iv. 325 
kingfish, ii. 57 
less nourishing than meat, 

ii. 43 
lobster, iii. 169 
lobster i la Newburg, iii. 

169 
lobster, prawns, and cray- 
fish, ii. 58 
lobster, stewed in cream, 

iii. 169 
mackerel broiled, and tar- 
ragon butter, iii. 130 
mackerel caveach, iii. 131 



Fish — matelote of codfish, iii. 

126 
mullet, ii. 57 
oysters (see " Shellfish ") 
perch fried, iii. 164 
jjickled salmon, iii. 144 
pike, baked in sour cream, 

((iernian), iii. 162 
planked, ii. 52 
planked shad, iii, 134 
plate, iii. 113 
pompano, ii. 57 
porgies, ii. 57 
red snapper, ii. 57 
relishes, iv. 250 
rissoles of. iii. 114 
roasting, ii. 50 
roe croquettes, iii. 136 
salmon, ii. 56 
salmon mayonnaise, iii. i4» 
salmon on toast, iii. 145 
salmon pie, iii. 145 
salt codfish balls, iii. 121 
.salt cod tidbit, iii. 128 
salt fish-balls, ii. 62 
salted, ii. 55 

salted cod with brown but- 
ter, iii. 119 
sandwich, iv. 155 
sardine fritters (German), 

iii. 156 
sauce, ii. 49 
sauce: " Drawn Butter," ii. 

61 
.scalloped, iii. Ill 
scalloped shad-roe, iii. 136 
scallop of salmon, iii. 146 
scallops and eggs, iii. 172 
sea-bass, ii. 57 
seasons of year for, ii. 55, 

etc. 
selecting, ii. 44, 130 
serving, i. 17 
shad, ii. 56 

shad, planked, iii. 134 
sheep's head, ii. 57 
sheep's head a la Creole. 

iii. 1.57 
sole, filleted (u I'ltalienne), 

iii, 159 



252 



INDEX 



Fish — soup, iii. 95 

Spanish mackerel, ii. 57 

steaming, ii. 45 

steamed red snapper, iii. 

154 
stewed codfish, iii. 127 
terrapin stewed, iii. 167 
stuffed sea bass, iii. 152 
stuffed smelts, iii. 147 
sturgeon, ii. 58; iii. 166 
turbot a la creme, iii. 151 
turbot fillet, iii. 152 
weakfisli,' ii. 57 
white bait, dressed, iii. 161 
whitefish, ii. 57 
whiting aux fines herbes 

(English), iii. 163 
with mashed potatoes, iii. 

Ill 
Fish (shell) 

baked crabs, iii. 171 
baked soft clams, iii. 179 
boiled soft-shell crabs, iii. 

170 
broiled oysters, in the 

shell, or on the half shell. 

iii. 175 
broiled oysters on toast, iii. 

176 
clam fritters, iii. 179 
creamed oj^sters, iii. 174 
devilled crabs (No. 1), iii. 

171 
fried oysters, iii. 176 
jumbolaya (East Indian 

recipe), iii. ISO 
Old Virginia fried oysters, 

iii. 177 
oysters and mushrooms, iii. 

177 
oysters on the half shell, 

iii. 173 
oysters " roasted " in their 

own liquor, iii. 179 
pigs in blankets, iii. 180 
scalloped oysters, iii. 178 
stewed oysters, iii. 174 
shrimps, iii. 172 
shrimps and mushroom, iii. 

173 



Fish — smoked and cured, ii. 
54 
snails, edible, iii. 180 
Fisherman's (French) chow- 
der, iii. 92 
Fix, brandy, gin, rum, or 

whiskej', v. 65, 66 
Flannel cakes, iv. 171 
Fleisch, minuten, iii. 281 
Flemish soup, iii. 68 
Floating island, ii. 93 
Flounders au gratin, iii. 148 

fillet of, iii. 148 
Flour, ii. 96 

best for bread, ii. 229 
test of purity, adulterants, 
ii. 230 
Foaming sauce, iv. 311 
Food and its value; impor- 
tance of correct under- 
standing, ii. 4 
effect of boiling, on ele- 
ments of, ii. 151 
number and value of 

works on subject, ii. 1 
supplies heat to body 
and repairs the system, 
ii. 5, 6 
classes of, derived from 
plants and animals, ii. 
6 
compound, ii. 14 
liquid, ii. 279 
of animal origin, classified, 

ii. 14 
of vegetable origin; ho%v 
differing from foods of 
animal origin, ii. 95 
simple, ii. 9 

(simple) albumen; type, 
where found; coagula- 
tion, ii. 9, 10 
(simple) fats, ii. 10 
(simple) salt and mineral 
matter; represented by 
table salt; other salts; 
necessity of, ii. 12 
simple and compound, 

classified, ii. 6, 7 
(simple) starches and 



INDEX 



253 



sugars; where found, 
etc., ii. 11 
table of comparative val- 
ues, animal and vege- 
table foods, ii. 103 
to be fried, ii. 169 
types and character of, as 
determined by chemical 
analysis, ii. 7, 8 
types to be combined in 
arranging proper diet, 
ii. 8 
Force-meat balls, iii. 105 
Foreiprn names of meats, 
fruits, and vegetables, v. 
209-211 
terms on menu, v. 208 
Form of invitation to balls, 
dances, etc., i. 128, 130. 
131, etc. 
of invitation to reception, 

i. 177 
of invitation to special 
varieties of balls, i. 13.) 
of invitation to theatre 
party, i. 201 
of invitation to visit, i. 210 
of letter of introduction, 

i. 85 
of reply to invitation to 

ball, i'. 138 
of speeches and toasts, 
after-dinner, etc., v. 188- 
207 
of visiting cards, i. 88, 93 
Formal response to "The 

Ladies," v. 192 
Fortune cake, iv. 191 
Four-fruit liquor, v. 57 
Fowl, kuwab, iii. 305 

pie, iii. 228 
Frnngipane, iv. 304 
Frankfurt sausages, iii. 257 
French beans, a la maitre 

d'hotel, iv. 41 
French fisherman's chowder. 
iii. 92 
ice cream, iv. 319 
soup, iii. 69 
tomatoes, iv. 106 



Fricadelles of veal, iii. 272 
Fricandeau of beef, iii. 236 
Fricassee, ii. 162 

chicken, ii. 164; iii. 299 

process, ii. 154 

veal, ii. 1()4; iii. 276 
Fricasseed asparagus, iv. 65 

beans, iv. 44 

Jerusalem artichokes, iv. 
67 

snapping turtle, iii. 168 
Fried cakes, iv. 207 

catfish, iii. 164 

chicken, iii. 296 

cod tongues, iii. 129 

corn, iv. 55 

eels, iii. 150 

eggs, iii. 335 

egg-plant, recii)e, ii. 172 

egg-plant, iv. 59 

green tomatoes, iv. 104 

ham, recipe, ii. 173 

ham and eggs, ii. 173; iii. 
2b7 

hominy, iv. 130 

Indian mush, ii. 172 

lamb chops, with Par- 
mesan, iii. 249 

liver (English), iii. 234 

mush, recipe, ii. 172 

oysters. Old Virginia, iii. 
177 

oyster plant, iv. 32 

parsnips, iv. 40 

perch, iii. 164 

por\ chops, iii. 260 

potatoes, recipe, ii. 171 

sausages, recipe, ii. 172 

scrapple and Indian mush, 
ii. 172 

shad-roe, iii. 134 

smelts, iii. 147 

soft-shell crabs, iii. 171 

sweetbreads, iii. 2S9 

tomatoes, recipe, ii. 171 

tomatoes, iv. 103 

turnips, iv. 108 
Friend, toast to a, v. 203 
Friendship, toast to, v. 203 
Fritters, ii. 196; iv. 161 



254 



INDEX 



Fritters, apple, iv. 163 
beef, iii. 235 
clam, iii. 179; iv. 162 
corn, iv. 53, 165 
egg-plant, iv. 59 
fish and meat, iv. 163 
muskmelon, iv. 119 
oj'ster, iv. 162 
peach, iv. 165 
pineapple, iv. 164 
puff-ball, iv. 165 
sardines (German), iii. 156 
vegetable, iv. 165 
Frogs' legs, iii. 173 

legs, fried, iii. 173 
Frosting for cake, ii. 270 
Fruits: 
apple butter, American, iv. 

123 
apple sauce, iv. 124 
apples, baked, iv. 121 
apples, baked, for chil- 
dren, iv. 122 
apples in pastry, iv. 124 
apples, stewed, iv. 123 
apples stewed in whiskey. 

iv. 122 
cherries (raw), iv. 129 
compote of fruit, iv. 128 
foreign names of, v. 209- 

211 
fruit cocktail, iv. 118 
fruit crown, iv. 121 
fruit cups, iv. 118 
fruit parfait, iv. 119 
fruit pudding, iv. 118 
gooseberry souffle, iv. 126 
gooseberry tart, iv. 125 
grape pudding, iv. 128 
grape timbale, iv. 118 
grapes in jelly, iv. 128 
iced fruits for dessert, iv. 

117 
jellied fruit, iv. 119 
melons (musk and cante- 

loupe), iv. 127 
mushroom melon, iv. 121 
muskmelon fritters, iv. 119 
oranges, how to serve, iv. 

126 



Fruits — pears, imperial, iv. 117 
pineapples, iv. 129 
sea-urchins, iv. 120 
stewed prunes, iv. 128 
stewed rhubarb, iv. 125 
strawberry croquettes, iv. 

120 
strawberrj' cups, iv. 120 
vegetarian fruit course, iv. 

120 
Fruit cake, iv. 186 
cake, dark, iv. 194 
composition of; effect of 

cooking on dried fruits, 

ii. 99 
digestibility when raw 

and when cooked, ii. 99 
cream, iv. 323 
mousse, iv. 326 
omelet, iii. 344 
soup, iii. 103 
Fry, Lamb's, iii. 248 
Frying, chief foods for, ii. 

169 
process of, ii. 166 
rapid method of cooking, 

ii. 169 
sauteing, ii. 170 
time table, ii. 297 
Frijole soup, iii. 85 

Game, ii. 32 
aspic game or poultry, iii. 

324 
Belgian hare, stuffed and 

roasted, iii. 316 
canvas-back ducks, broiled. 

iii. 308 
canvas-back ducks, roasted. 

iii. 308 
carving, v. 24, 27 
digestibilitj'^ of, ii. 40 
duck in jelly, iii. 312 
soup, iii. 99 
German hasenpfeffer, iii. 

315 
grouse, roast, iii. 321 
hanging of. ii. 39 
hare or rabbit (German 

hasenpfeffer), iii. 315 



INDEX 



255 



Game — hare or rabbit, 

braisfcl, iii. 314 
partridgft's, baked, iii. 316 
pheasant, broiled, iii. 319 
piffeons, stuffeil a n d 

roasted (German 

method), iii. 318 
plovers, roasted, iii. 317 
pate of foies ^rras, iii. 313 
quails, roast, iii. 311) 
quails, trussinj^:- of, iii. 319 
rabbit or hare (German 

hasenpfeffer), iii. 315 
rabbit or hare, braised, iii. 

314 
roast ruddy ducks, iii. 309 
roast teal, iii. 310 
salmi of duek, iii. 310 
snipes, cooked (German 

fashion), iii. 320 
teal ducks, broiled, iii. 309 
venison, roast (German 

recipe), iii. 321 
venison steaks, broiled, iii. 

321 
woodcock, roast, iii. 322 
parden parties, i. 201 
I)arties, entertainments, 

provided, i. 206 
parties, invitations and re- 
plies, i. 204 
parties, refreshments, i. 

206 
Garnishinpr, ii. 300 
Geese, ii. 38 

Geneva {^riddle cakes, iv. 169 
"German" (or cotillion), i. 

157 
German farina blocks, iii. 105 

pancakes, iv. 175 
Gherkins, pickled, iv. 256 
Giblet.s. ii. 37 
Giblet pie, iii. 294 

sou J), iii. 22 
Gin, V. 174 

and pine, v. 122 
and tansy, v. 122 
and wormwood, v. 122 
cocktail, V. 54 
cocktail, improved, v. 54 



Gin crusta, v. (U 

daisy, v. 62 

fix, V. 65 

fizz, V. 76 

flip (hot or cold), v. 82 

punch, v. 90 

sauffaree, v. 86 

sling: (hot and cold), v. 77 
Ginger beer, v. 37. 38 
Ging-erb.read, ii. 270; iv. 200 
. colonial, iv. 200 

soft, iv. 200 

sour milk, iv. 200 
Ging'er cordial, v. 46 

snaps, iv. 203 

gulep, V. 64 

rickey, v. 57 

smash, v. 65 

sour, v. 71 

toddy, cold or hot, v. 73 
Glace Napolitain, iv. 319 
Glasses, used with varieties 

of wine, i. 30 
Glazed nuts, v. 16 
Glossary: terms used in 

cooking-, V. 212-230 
Gold cake, iV. 190 
Golden fizz, v. 77 

sauce, iv. 312 

wedding-, speech, v. 194 

wedding- (toast), v. 207 
Goose, ii. 38 

in jelly, iii. 312 

roast, iii. 311 
Gooseberry pie, iv. 278 

jjudding-, iv. 283 

souflle, iv. 12G 

tart, iv. 125 
Gothic punch, v. 110 
Graham bread, iv. 134 

g:ems, iv. 146 

g-riddle cakes, iv. 168 

muflins, iv. 144 

pudding-, steamed, iv. 288 

rolls, iv. 141 
Grape juice, v. 49 

pudding-, iv. 128 

sauce, iv. 270 

timbale, iv. 118 

wine, v. 48 



256 



INDEX 



Grapes in jelly, iv. 128 
Gravies and sauces, ii. 146 

thickening for, ii. 147 
Gravy for roasts, ii. 192 
Grecque, soup a la, iii. 44 
Green corn, broiled, iv. 56 

corn omelet, iii. 342 

corn souffle, iv. 53 

peas, iv. 49 

peas a la creme, iv. 50 

pea puree, iii. 59 

peas, soup, cream of, iii. 51 

peas, stewed, iv. 49 

peas, to boil, iv. 48 

tomato s%veet pickles, iv. 
258 

tomatoes, fried, iv. 104 
Griddle cakes, ii. 198; iv. 167 

cakes with eggs, iv. 168 
Grilled tomatoes, iv. 100 
Grouse, roast, iii. 321 
Gruel, ii. 280-288 

barlej', iv. 259 

oatmeal, wheatena, ii, 285 

water, iv. 268 
Gruetz, iv. 283 
Guinea fowl, ii. 39 
Gumbo, chicken, iii. 30 

chicken, with oysters, iii. 
31 

filee soup, iii. 2" 

oyster, iii. 31 

(shrimp), iii. 97 

Haddock, boiled, with egg 

sauce, iii. 161 
Half and half, v. 118 
Halibut a la Creole, iii. 139 
baked, with lobster sauce, 

iii. 138 
baked with milk, iii. 137 
bisque of, iii. 53 
boiled, iii. 138 
broiled, iii. 139 
devilled, iii. 139 
scallop, cheese and, iii, 141 
steak a la Flamande, iii. 

140 
steak, baked with toma- 
toes, iii. 140 



Ham, ii. 31 

and eg-gs, recipe, ii. ITJ 

broiled, iii. 266 

fried, with eggs, iii. 267 

fried, recipe, ii. 173 

omelet, iii. 342 

roasted, iii. 267 
Hamburg steak, iii. 207 
Hard-pea soup, iii. 70 
Hard sauce, ii. 149; iv. 

312 
Hare, Belgian, ii. 40 

Belgian, stuffed and 
roasted, iii. 316 

or rabbit (German Hasen- 
pfeffer), iii. 315 

or rabbit braised, iii. 314 
Haricot beans (lima beans) 
a la maitre d'hotel, iv. 
42 

beans with onions, iv, 43 

defined, ii. 161 

mutton, iii. 242 
Harlequin sandwich, iv. 154 
Hash, beef, iii. 218 

codfish, iii, 124 
Hasenpfeffer (German), iii. 

315 
Hasty soup, iii. 23 
Head, calf's, baked, iii. 275 

cheese, iii. 264 

of the house; Avhich is it? 
ii. 301 
Heart, beef's, boiled, iii. 232 

calf's, baked, iii. 330 

calf's, stuffed, iii. 329 
Hebe's cup, v. 58 
Heidelberg punch, v. 58 
Herbs with parmesan, soup 

of, iii. 67 
Herrings, marinaded, iii. 158 
Hickory nut cake, iv. 184 

nut candy, iv. 336 
High ball, 'v. 57 
Hock cobbler, v. 67 
Hoe-cake, iv. 177 
Hollandaise sauce, iii. 186 
Home chats, ii. 301 

elegance, ii. 319 

life, ii. 316 



INDEX 



257 



Home life, living in a "rush," 

ii. :ns 
Hominv, breakfast, boiled, 
iv.'lSO 
fro(|iiettes, iv. 131 
fried, iv. 130 
jrriddU" cakes, iv. 172 
inuflins, iv. 144 
Honeycomb cream, iv. 305 
Honig-kuchen, iv. 197 
Hers d'cpuvres, ii. 102 
Horseradish, iv. IK") 
sauce, iv. 9j 
sauce (hot), iii. 102 
Horse's neck, v. 40 
Hot brandy and rum punch, 
V. 100 ' 
pot, beef, iii. 231 
rum, V. 78 
spiced rum, v. 78 
Hotchpotcli, Scotch, iii. 6.5 
Hot Eng-lish flip (rum or 
ale), V. 114 
Scotch, v. fiO 
Housekecpinpf hints, ii. 313 
Housekeper, plan each day, 
ii. 312 
suprg:estions to, ii. •■!;{2 
House parties, entertain- 
ment, i. Ul.') 
parties, formal, i. 214 
parties, free time for 

guests, i. 216 
parties, guest chamber, i. 

217 
parties. (See " Visiting," 
i. 20')) 
Huckleberry cake, iv. 189 
griddle cakes, iv. 160 
pudding, iv. 290 
shortcake, iv. 178 
Hulled corn soup, iii. 42 
Husbands, ii. .301 
Hygienic cream sauce, iv. 312 

Ice cream, how frozen, ii. 281 
recipes, ii. 2.SS 
apricot, iv. 316 
baked Alaska, iv. 322 
biscuit, iv. 324 



Ice cream — biscuit glaco, iv. 
326 

l)isciiit tortoni, iv. '428 

Bohemian, iv. 318 

brown bread, iv. .321 

caramel, iv. 322 

chocolate, iv. .317 

chocolate mousse, iv. 325 

coffee, iv. 317 

fi.sh, iv. .325 

French, iv. 310 

fruit, iv. 323 

fruit mousse, iv. 326 

glace Napolitain, iv. 31C 

mask, iv. 322 

Italian, iv. 324 

lemon, iv. 316 

melon, iv. 32.'j 

Milanette, iv. 318 

mille fruit, iv. 316 

pistachio, iv. 320 

surjjrisc melon, iv. 326 

vanilla, iv. 317 

vanilla parfait, iv. 323 
Ices, almond and orange, iv. 

lemon, iv. 330 
lemon sherbet, iv. 327 
milk sherbet, iv. 327 
punch La 11a Kookh, iv. 332 
orange she het, iv. 327 
Koman punch, iced, iv. 331 
sorbet of Kirchwasser, iv. 

331 
.sorbet of rum, iv. 332 
strawljerry sherbet, iv. 320 
water, iv.^ 238 

Ice, lemon, ii. 284 

Ici'd cotTee, v. 30 

Icing, boiled, iv. 199 
Charlotte fruit, iv. 30.5 
chocolate water, iv. 199 
maple sugar fro.sting, iv. 

199 
marshmallow frosting, iv. 

Imperial arrack punch, v. 104 
braiidx' ])Uiu'ii, \. 101 
punch, v. 101 

Indian sauce, iii. 187 



258 



INDEX 



Indian griddle cakes, iv. 170 
mush, fried, ii. 172 
burdwan, iii. 306 
chutney, iv. 254 
meal pudding, boiled, iv. 
281 
Inexpensive soup, iii. 23 
Information, miscellaneous, 

ii. 292 
Ink-stains, removed by salt, 

ii. 338 
Introductions, i. 76 
at dance, i. 145 
by chaperon at dance, i. 

82 
by hostess may not be re- 
fused, i. 80 
by letter, i. 84 
dutj' of hostess at various 

entertainments, i. 81 
by letter, obligation im- 
posed, i. 87 
by letter presenting, i. 86 
by letter receiving, i. 86 
how acknowledged, i. 78 
time for, i. 81 
when not to make, i. 83 
Invalid, cooker,y for, ii. 279 
cookery, iv. 259 
cookery, apple water, iv. 

259 
cookery, arrowroot jelly, iv. 

260 
cookery, barley gruel, iv. 

259 
cookery, barley water, iv. 

259 
cookerj', beef, mutton, and 

veal broth, iv. 260 
cookery, beef tea, iv. 260 
cookery, bread pudding, 

light, iv. 261 
cookery, broth, beef, mut- 
ton, and veal, iv. 260 
cookerv, broth, calves' feet, 

iv. 262 
cookery, broth, chicken, iv. 

263 
cookerv broth clear, iv. 
261 



Invalid cookery, broth, mut- 
ton, iv. 266 
cookery, broth, veal, iv. 266 
cookery, broths, white with 

vermicelli, iv. 268 
cookery, calves' feet broth, 

iv. 262 
cookery, calves' feet jelly, 

iv. 262 
cookery, chicken broth, iv. 

263 
cookerv, chicken, minced, 

iv. 263 
cookery, chicken, with 

sauce, iv. 263 
cookery, chicken with sip- 
pets, iv. 264 
cookery, eggs, iv. 265 
cookery, egg wine, iv. 264 
cookerj^ gruel water, iv. 

268 
cookery, Italian paste, iv. 

268 
cookery, jelly, calves' feet, 

iv. 262 
cookery, meat jelly, iv. 265 
cookery, jelly, orange, iv. 

266 
cookery, jelly, tapioca, iv. 

.267 
cookery, macaroni with 

broth, iv. 265 
cookery, meat jelly, iv. 265 
cookery, mutton broth, iv. 

266 
cookery, orange jellj', iv, 

266 
cookery, panada, iv. 267 
cookery, rice, iv. 268 
cookery, sponge-cake pud- 
ding, iv. 267 
cookery, tapioca jelly, iv. 

267 
cookery, veal broth, iv. 266 
cookery, vermicelli, iv. 268 
cookery water gruel, iv. 

268 
cookery, whey, iv. 268 
cookery, white broths with 

vermicelli, iv. 268 



INDEX 



259 



Invalids, milk and food for; 

ice cream, ii. 281 
Invitations, for ball, may be 

written, i. 129 
forms of, to ball, and 

cotillion, i. 128, IM 
in writing-, i. o09 
mailed, sometimes, i. 129 
to bal poudre, fancy dress, 

costume, charity ball, 

♦tc, i. 135 
to balls, replies to, i. 1^7 
to breakfast, i. 50 
to dinner dance, i. 131 
to formal dinner, forms, i. 

6 
to parden parties, i. 204 
to luncheon, and replies, i. 

3G 
to musi-ales, i. 190 
to receptions, i. 177 
to theatre parties, i. 200 
to visit, i. 210 
when accompanied by 

visiting--card, i. 105 
Irish moss blancmange, il. 

290 
moss jelly, ii. 283 
sandwich, iv. IfiO 
soup, or Balnamoon skink, 

iii. 32 
Italian steak, iii. 236 
Irish stew, iii. 224 
Italian macaroons, iv. 202 . 
paste, iv. 208 
sandwiches, iv. 159 

Jam. iv. 273 

home made, ii. 272 

sandwich, iv. 158 
Japanese cocktail, v. 55 
Jellies: lemon, orange, etc., 

ii. 283 
Jellied fruit, iv. 119 
jellies, iv. 270 
Jelly, arrowroot, iv. 260 

aspic, iv. 268 

cake, iv. 191 

calves' feet. iv. 262 

grape sauce, iv. 270 



Jelly, meat, iv. 265 
orange, iv. 266 
strawberry, iv. 270 
tapioca, iv. 267 
Jellyfish cream, iv. 310 
Jenny Lind's soup, iii. 41 
" Jerry Thomas' " own de- 
canter bitters, v. l:Jl 
Jersey cocktail, v. 55 
sour, V. 71 
Jerusalem artichokes, fricas- 
seed, iv. 67 
artichokes, puree of, iv. 68 
artichokes, stewed, iv. 66 
Jewish almond pudding, iv. 
293 
sausage, or chorissa, iii. 237 
Johnny cake, or journey 

cake, iv. 176 
Juleps, mint. gin. whiskey, 

or pineapple, v. 62, 64 
Julienne soup, ii. 142; iii. 23 

soup, Russian, iii. 22 
Jumbles, almond, iv. 203 

peanut, iv. 204 
Jumbolaya (East Indian 

recipe), iii. 180 
June tea punch, v. 32 
Junket, ii. 291; iv. 308 

Kale brose, iii. 33 

Scotch, iv. 79 
Kehobbed mutton, iii. 243 
Kidney beans, iv. 45 

ox, stewed, iii. 327 
Kitchen arrangements, ii. 308 

utensils, ii. 310 
Klosse (liver), for soup, iii. 

106 
Knickerbocker, v. 67 
Koumiss, V. 33 
Kuwab fowl, iii. 305 

Lady fingers, iv. 201 
Lamb, ii. 27 

ballotin of, with green 

peas, iii. 246 
blanquette of. iii. 245 
breast of, roasted a la 
Milanese, iii. 245 



260 



INDEX 



Lamb brochettes, iii. 247 

buying in mai'ket, ii. 128 

chops, broiled, iii. 249 

French chops, ii. : 

chops, fried, with Parme- 
san, iii. 249 

chops with champagne 
sauce, iii. 247 

epigramme" with aspara- 
gus tips. iii. 248 
Lamb's fry, iii. 248 
Lamb, how divided by 
butcher, ii. 129 

minced, with poached 
eggs, iii. 250 

roast, time for, ii. 192 

spring, ii. 29 
La Patria punch, v. 102 
Larded sweetbreads, ii la 

financiere, iii. 290 
Larding, ii. 202 
Laundrj^ arrangements, ii. 

308 
Lebkuchen, iv. 205 
Leeks, iv. 93 

how to boil, iv. 94 

soup, iii. 40 
Left-over soi p, iii. 22 
Leg of lamb, roasted, iii. 244 

of mutton, boiled, iii. 230 

of mutton stuffed, iii. 238 

of pork, stuffed and roast- 
ed, iii. 261 
Leguminous plants, ii. 100 
Lemon a n d peppermint 
drops, iv. 334 

cake, iv. 191 

cheese cake, iv. 197 . 

ice, iv. 330 

ice cream, iv. 316 

jelly, ii. 282 

pie.' iv. 280 

puff, iv. 308 

sauce, ii. 149 

sauce for puddings, iv. 313 

sherbet, iv. 327 

souffle, iv. 295 

whip, iv. 308 
Lemonade, ii. 284 

egg, v. 39 



Lemonade for parties, v. 39 

orgeat, v. 39 

plain, V. 38 

seltzer, v. 39 

soda, V. 38 
Lentil soup, iii. 86 
Lentils, curried, iv. 46 
Letter-writing (see " Corre- 
spondence ") 
Letters of introduction (see 
" Introduction by Let- 
ter," i. 84) 
Lettuce soup. iii. fi7 

soup, cream of, iii. 50 

stewad, iv. 109 

stuffetl, iv. 110 
Light Guard punch, v. 102 
Liqueurs and bitters, v. 172 
Lima beans a la poulette, iv. 
43 

beans (haricot beans), a la 
maitre d'hotel, iv. 42 

bean puree, iii. 60 
Limeade, v. 35 
Liquid foods, ii. 279 
Liver, calf's, and bacon, li\. 
265; iii. 279 

calf's broiled, iii. 278 

calf's, and onions, saute, 
iii. 279 

fried (English), iii. 234 

klosse (for soup), iii. 100 

sausages, Mecklenburg, iii. 
255 
Loaf, veal, iii. 277 
Lobster, ii. 58; iii. 169 

a la Xewburg, v. 5; iii. 1C9 

bisque of, iii. 55 

coral sauce, iv. 235 

creamed, v. 5 

creamed, on toast, iii. 170 

croustades, iii. 332 

devilled, iii. 170 

sauce, iii. 185, 188 

stewed in cream, iii. 169 
Locomotive, v. 115 
Loin of mutton, roasted, iii. 
243 

of pork, roast, iii. 263 
Lovers, toast to, v. 200 



INDEX 



26) 



Luncheon delicncy. chicken 
salad rolls, iv. :-'4:i 
formal, costume, i. :!9 
formal. ^'■oinfJ;■ into dining'- 

rooni, i. :i9 
formal, hour, i. .17 
formal, invitations and re- 
plies, i. 36 
formal, menu, i. 38 
fdrmal, name-cnrds. i. 39 
formal, occasions for giv- 

ing, i. 36 
formal. " pink lunch- 
eons," etc., i. 30 
formal, serving, i. 37 
formal, table, lights, etc., 

i. 37 
informal, i. 41 
Macaroni, iv. 21 
baked, iv. 2G 

boiled, a I'ltallenne, iv. 24 
croquettes, iv. 22 
nudels, iv. 20 
.souffle, iv, 22 
timbi.les, iv. 23 
\vith chestnuts, iv. 25 
with broth (invalid), iv. 

265 
with tomatoes, iv. 23 
and tomato soup, quickly 
made, iii. 45 
Macaroons, iv. 202 
-Macedoine soup, iii. 35 
Mackerel, baked fresh, with 
oyster dressing, iii. 131 
baked salt. ii. 1S7 
boiled (German method), 

ill. 1.30 
broiled, iii. 129 
broiled, and tarragon but- 
ter, iii. 130 
cnveach, iii. 131 
Maih'ira sauce, iii. 195. 324 
wines of Portugal, v. 152 
Miiiils, liiiits to, ii. 324 
Maitre d'hutel butter, iii. 195 
Maniif Taylor, v. ."i7 
.Mangoes, cucumber, iv. 79 

stulTed, iv. 255 
Manhattan cocktail, v. 54 



Manners at table (see " Table 
Manners ") 

roughness in, ii. 322 
Man's natural history, ac- 
cording to the club- 
woman, v. 203 
Maple sugar caramel, iv. 337 
Maraschino punch, v. 97 
Marbled cake, iv. 185 
Marinaded herrings, iii. 158 
Marketing, ii. 125 

beef, ii! 26 

buying mutton and lamb, 
ii. 27 

how to select meat, etc., ii. 
23 

poultry, ii. 34 

pork, ii. 31 

sweetbreads, ii. 31 

veal, ii. 30 
Marmalade, iv. 273 
Marriage relation, ii. 302 (see 

also " Wedding "). 
Rfarron glace, v. 15 
Marrow balls for consomme. 

iii. 17 
Marsliniallow cake, iv. 192 
Martinez cocktail, v. 55 
Mashed beans, iv. 44 

potatoes, recipe, ii. 155 
Matelote (fish en), iii. 114 

of codfish, iii. 120 
^fatzoth soup balls, iii. 100 
May wine, v. 43 
Mayonnaise dressing, iv. 211 

salmon, iii. 144 
Meagre soup, iii. 85 
Measures, ii. 292 
Meat and jjotato pie, iii. 221 

baking, ii. 1H5 

boiling, ii. 25, 154 

broiling, ii. 181 

buying and selecting; 
points to bear in mind, 
ii. 23 

casserole, ii. 177 

composition of, etc., ii. 14 

composition of fresh 
(table), ii. 10 

constitueDts of. ii. 15 



262 



INDEX 



Meat, cooking with slow fire; 
with hot fire; in water, 
ii. 24 

digestibility of; compari- 
son and explanation, ii. 
17 

effect of boiling on, ii. 153 

effect of stewing, ii. 159 

effect of salt upon, ii. 186 

extract; nutritive value 

slight, ii. 19 

for beef patties, iii. 235 

(force-) balls, iii. 105 

how rendered more tender, 
ii. 15 

how to make tender with 
acid, ii. 346 

jelly, iv. 265 

marketing for, stlecting, 
etc., ii. 126 

moulded, iii. 328 

roasting, ii. 188 

roasting time for, ii. 190, 
192 

sandwich, iv. 151 

slightly turned, how 
treated, ii. 343 

smothered, ii. 26 

steaming, ii. 26 

term includes what? sea- 
sons for various kinds; 
what kinds most nutri- 
tious; what kinds most 
digestible, ii. 22 

test for broiling, ii. 182 

treatment of, after buy- 
ing, ii. 23 

uses of the fat, ii. 24 

vinaigrette of cold, iii. 281 

what cuts best suited for 
various styles of cook- 
ing, ii. 23 

why bread must be added 
to a meat diet, ii. 16 
Meats — bacon and calf's 
liver, iii. 265 

bacon and eggs, iii. 266 

baked beefsteak a la jar- 
diniere, iii. 230 

baked calf's head, iii. 275 



Meats— ballotin of lamb, with 

green peas, iii. 246 
beef, braised, pot roast, ii. 

175 
beef a la mode, iii. 215 
beef balls, iii. 226 
beef fritters, iii. 235 
beef hash, iii. 218 
beef hot-pot, iii. 231 
beef's liver, breaded, iii. 

223 
beef loaf, iii. 227 
beef patties, meat for, iii, 

235 
beefsteak with mushrooms, 

iii. 208 
beefsteak and onions, iii. 

209 
beef stew with dumplings, 

iii. 216 
blanquette of lamb, iii. 

245 
blanquette of veal, with 

cucumbers, iii. 282 
boiled bacon, iii. 265 
boiled beef's heart, iii. 

232 
boiled calves' tongues, iii. 

273 
boiled dinner, old-fash- 
ioned, iii. 224 
boiled leg of mutton, iii. 

239 
boiled sausages, with white 

wine, iii. 257 
boiled sweetbreads with 

tomato sauce, iii. 286 
braising inferior parts, ii. 

174 
braised beef's tongue (No. 

1), iii. 232 
braised or smothered 

sweetbreads, iii. 289 
breast of lamb, braised a 
, la Milanese, iii. 245 

breast of veal, stuffed, iii. 

272 
brisket of beef, stewed, iii. 

233 
broiled bacon, iii. 265 



INDEX 



263 



Meats — broiled pork and chili 

sauce, iil. 251 
broiled sweetbreads with 

stuffed tomatoes, iii. 287 
calf's brain, breaded, iii. 

274 
calf's heart, baked, iii. 330 
calf's heart, stuffed, iii. 329 
calf's liver and bacon, iii. 

27!) 
calf's liver and onions 

saute, iii. 279 
calf's liver, broiled, iii. 278 
chicken-and-ham pie, iii. 

229 
chicken potpie, iii. 228 
corned beef, iii. 234 
creamed dried beef. iii. 225 
curried beef, iii. 226 
curried pork, iii. 250 
devilled sausajj-es. iii. 25G 
dried beef with eggs, iii. 

225 
fillet of beef, braised, iii. 

233 
foreign names of, v. 209-211 
and poultry pies — fowl pie, 

iii. 228 
Frankfurt sausages, iii. 257 
fricadelles of veal, iii. 272 
fricandeau of beef. iii. 236 
gravy for roast, ii. 192 
haricot mutton, iii. 242 
ham, broiled, iii. 266 
ham, fried, with eggs, iii. 

267 
ham, roasted, iii. 267 
Hamburg steak, iii. 207 
lieail cheese, iii. 264 
Irish stew, iii. 224 
Italian steak, iii. 236 
.lewish sausage, or cho- 

rissa, iii. 237 
lamb brochettes, iii. 247 
lamb chops, broiled, iii. 

249 
lamb chops, fried, with 

Parmesan, iii. 2t9 
Iamb chops with cham- 
pagne sauce, iii. 247 



Meats — lamb epigrammes, 
with asparagus tips, iii. 
248 
lamb's fry, iii. 248 
leg of lamb, roasted, iii. 

244 
leg of mutton, stuffed, iii. 

238 
leg of pork, stuffed and 

roasted, iii. 261 
liver, fried (English), iii. 

2:u 
loin of pork, roast, iii. 263 
Mecklenburg liver saus- 
ages, iii. 255 
Mexican chile con carne, 
iii. 328 
minced lamb with poached 

eggs, iii. 250 
minuten fleisch, iii. 2S1 
moulded me:it, iii. 328 
Xew England pot roast, iii. 

231 
olla podrida, iii. 238 
pan-broiled steak, iii. 206 
pig, sucking, roast, iii. 239 
pigs' ears, baked, iii. 252 
pigs' feet, boiled, iii. 252 
feet, stuffed a la Peri- 

gueux. iii. 253 
pork chops, broiled, iii. 260 
|)ork chops, fried, iii. 260 
pork cutlets, fried, iii. 251 
pot roast, ii. 26 
pot roast of beef, iii. 222 
preparing for stew, ii. 161 
ragoiit of beef, iii. 219 
rechauffe of beef a la jar- 
diniere, iii. 226 
rib roast, iii. 213 
rissoles of beef, iii. 218 
roast beef, iii. 210 
roast, from the round, iii. 

212 
roast veal. iii. 271 
rolled boiled beef, iii. 230 
sausages, iii. 253 
sausages, baked, iii. 256 
scalloped sweetbreads with 
mushrooms, iii. 284 



264 



INDEX 



Meats — scalloped sweet- 

breads, iii. 283 
shoulder of mutton, 

stuffed, iii. 240 
smothered beef, iii. 228 
souse, iii. 264 
spare-rib of pork, roasted, 

iii. 262 
spiced pressed beef, iii. 220 
steak a la Bordelaise, iii. 

287 
stewed sweetbreads, iii. 287 
stuffed or farcied roast 

beef, iii. 213 
sweetbreads, iii. 286 
sweetbreads, fried, iii. 289 
sweetbreads, larded, a la 

financiere, iii. 290 
sweetbreads, plain boiled, 

iii. 286 
sweetbreads with spag'hetti 

or macaroni and toma- 
toes, iii. 284 
sweetbread croquettes, iii. 

288 
sweetbread patties (vol-au- 

vents), iii. 288 
to broil a steak, iii. 205 
veal croquettes with mush- 
rooms, iii. 276 
veal cutlets, breaded, with 

tomato sauce, iii. 268 
veal cutlets, plain, iii. 268 
veal fricassee, iii. 276 
veal liver pdte, iii. 283 
veal loaf, iii. 277 
veal potpie, iii. 269 
vinaigrette of cold meat, 

iii. 281 
wiener schnitzel, iii. 280 
Yorkshire pudding" (to be 

eaten with roast beef), 

iii. 214 
meat and potato pie, iii. 

221 
mutton, boiled, ii. 156 
mutton chops, broiled, iii. 

239 
mutton chops, pan-broiled, 

iii. 240 



Meats — mutton, curried, iii. 
242 

mutton cutlets and mush- 
rooms, iii. 239 

mutton, fillet of, braised, 
iii. 241 

mutton, kebobbed, iii. 243 

mutton, loin of, roasted, 
iii. 243 
Mecklenburg liver sausages, 

iii. 255 
Medford rum punch, v. 90 
Melon cream, iv. 325 

(musk and cantaloupe), iv, 
127 
Menu for formal dinner, i. 13 

making, ii. 115 

tables, ii. 119 

terms in foreign lan- 
guages, V. 208 
Mexican chile con carne, iii. 

328 
Milanese ice cream, iv. 318 
Milk and seltzer, v. 33 
Milk as food for invalids, 
ii. 281 

biscuit, iv. 143 

digestibility of, ii. 70 

effect of gastric juices 
upon, ii. 68 

importance of sterilizing; 
method of sterilizing, ii. 
69 

nature and properties of, 
ii. 67 

perfect food for infant; 
not so for adult, ii. 69, 70 

porridge, ii. 285, iv. 131 

punch, varieties of, v. 93, 
107 

shake, v. 33 

soup, almond, iii. 34 

sherbet, iv. 327 

scalding to prevent turn- 
ing sour, ii. 68 

toast, ii. 287; iv. 149 

why the ideal food for in- 
fants; examination of its 
elements, ii. 7, 8 
Mille fruit ice cream, iv. 316 



INDEX 



265 



Miiu'i'd chicken, iv. 2()3 

lamb with poached eggs, 
iii. 250 

Mince-meat pie, iv. 278 
patties, iv. 278 

Mint jiilcp, V. 02 

sauce (for young lumb), iii. 
I'Jti 

Minuten fleisch, iii. 281 

Mi.scellaneous information, ii. 
292 

Mississippi pnnch, v. 98 

Mixed diet, rules for, ii. 
110 

Mixed drinks: 

absinthe and water, v. US 
absinthe frappe, v. GO 
absinthe, French style, v. 

119 
ale sangaree, v. 80 
apple toddy, v. 72 
" arf and arf," v. 118 
arrack punch, v. 93 
bishop. V. Si) 
black stripe, v. 122 
Boonckamp and whiskev, 

V. 121 
brandy and ginger ale. v. 

117 
brandy and gum, v. lis 
brandy and rum punch, v. 

'JO 
brandy and soda, v. 117 
brandy champerelle, v. 70 
brandy criista, v. GO 
brandy daisy, v. 61 
brandy fix, v. 65 
brandy fizz, v. 76 
brandy flip (hot and cold), 

V. 81, 82 
brandy punch, v. 89 
brandy sangaree, v. 85 
brandy scaffa. v. 70 
brandy shrub, v. SH 
brandy sling (hot and 

cold). V. 77 
brandy smatth, v. 64 
brandy sour, v. 71 
brandy straight, v. 116 
brandy toddy, v. 72 



Mixed drinks — burnt brandy 
and peach, v. 121 
catawba c-obblcr. v. 67 
cham])agnc cobbler, v. 66 
champagne j)unch, v. 98 
champagne velvet, v. 60 
cherry sangaree, iv. 85 
cider cuj), v. r»9 
claret cobbler, v. 67 
claret punch, v. 94 
cocktails, absinthe, v. .'>2 
cocktails, bottle, v. 53 
cocktails, brandy and im- 
proved brandy, v. .'j2. 53 
c/icktails, champagne, v. 53 
cocktails, coflfee, v. 54 
cocktails, gin. Old Tom 

and improved, v. 54 
cocktails, .Ia])anese, v. 55 
cocktails, Jersey, v. 55 
cocktails, Manhattan, v. 54 
cockt.iils. Martinez, v. 55 
cocktails, morning-glory, 

V. 55 
cocktails, Saratoga, v. 56 
<'ocktails, vermouth, v. 56 
cocktails, whiskey, v. 56, 

57 
coffee kirsch, v. 59 
Columbia skin, v. 81 
Copenhagen, v. 80 
Cura(.'oa punch, v. 95 
currant shrub, v. S7 
eggnogg, varieties, v. 74, 75 
ppf; sour, V. 72 
Kl Dorado punch, v. 94 
four-fruit liquor, v. 57 
gin and pine, v. 122 
gin and tansy, v. 122 
gin and wormwood, v. 122 
gin crusta, v. 61 
gin daisy, v. 62 
gin fix, V. 65 
gin fizz, V. 76 
fiip (hot or cold), v. 82 
gin julep, V. 64 
gin punch, v. 90 
gin rickcy, v. 57 
gin sangaree, v. 86 
gin sling, v. 77 



266 



INDEX 



Mixed driuks — gin smash, v. 

65 
gin sour, v. .71 
gin toddy, v. 73 
golden fizz. v. 77 
half-and-half, v. 118 
Hebe's cup, v. 58 
Heidelberg punch, v. 58 
high-ball, v. 57 
hock cobbler, v. 67 
hot brand.v and rum 

punch, V. 100 
hot English flip (rum or 

ale), v. 114 
hot Scotch, V. 60 
hot rum, v. 78 
hot spiced rum, v. 78 
imperial brandy punch, v. 

101 
imperial punch, r. 101 
" Jerry Thomas' " own de- 
canter bitters, v. 121 
Jersey sour, v. 71 
knickerbocker, v. 67 
locomotive, v. 115 
Mamie Tajlor, v. 57 
mint julep, v. 62 
peach and honey, v. 121 
pineapple julep, v. 64 
ponj' brandy, v. 116 
pousse cafe, various styles, 

V. 68, 69 
punch, ale, v. 11.1 
punch, eider, v. 114 
punch, apple, v. 113 
punch, Barbadoes, v. 113 
Light-Guard punch, v. 102 
maraschino punch, v. 97 
Medford rum punch, v. 90 
milk punch, varieties of, v. 

9: 
Mississippi punch, v. 98 
mulled cider, v. 84 
mulled wine, v. 84 
mulled wine with eggs, v. 

83 
negus, V. 86, 87 
orgeat punch, v. 95 
Philadelphia fish - house 

punch, V. 102 



Mixed drinks — porter san- 

garee, v. 86 
port-wine flip, v. 83 
port-wine negus, v. 86-87 
port-wine sangaree, v. 85 
punch grassot, v. 97 
quince liqueur, v. 85 
raspberry shrub, v. 88 
Eocky Mountain punch, v. 

99 
Eoman punch, v. 96 
rum flip (hot or cold), v. 82 
rum shrub, v. 89 
sangaree, v. 85-86 
Santa Cruz rum punch, v. 

91 
Seventh Regiment Na- 
tional Guard punch, v. 96 
sauterne punch, v. 95 
sherry flip, v. 83 
sherry punch, v. 95 
shrub, varieties of, v. 87-89 
silver fizz, v. 76 
Sixtj^-ninth Regiment 

punch, V. 97 
soda negus, v. 87 
punch, Soyer's gin, v. 105 
spread-eagle punch, v. 102 
St. Charles punch, v. 96 
strawberry punch, v. 100 
Tom and Jerry, v. 79 
Tom Collins, brandy and 

gin, V. 81 
Tom Collins, whiskey, v. 81 
vanilla punch, v. 94 
punch. West Indian, v. 113 
punch, wedding, v. 112 
whiskey fizz, v. 76 
whiskey flip (hot or cold), 

V. 82-83 
punch, orange, v. 112 
punch, regent's, v. Ill 
whiskey punches (hot ai>4 

cold), V. 91-92 
whiskey skin (Scotch *. f 

Irish), V. 80-81 
whiskey sling, v. 78 
punch, dry, v. Ill 
punch jellj' v. Ill 
punch a la Ford, v. 110 



INDEX 



267 



Mixed drinks — punch, Gothic, 

V. 110 
punch, nectar, v. 112 
punch tea, v. 109 
punch, Duke of Norfolk, v. 

109 
punch a la Romaine, v. lOS 
punch, Oxford, v. lOS 
punch, milk, varieties of. 

V. 107 
punch, Century club, v. 107 
punch, royal, v. 106 
punch pineapple, v. 106 
punch, United Service, v. 

106 
punch, Xuremburp-. v. 105 
punch, arrack, v. 10.) 
punch, imperial arrack, v. 

104 
punch, cold ruby, v. 104 
punch, bimbo, v. 104 
punch, Canadian, v. 103 
punch non-such, v. 103 
punch, Rochester, v. 103 
punch. La Patria. v. 102 
Rhine wine and seltzer, v. 

117 
rock and rye. v. 118 
rum and milk, v. 123 
Santa Cruz fix, v. 66 
Santa Cruz fizz, v. 75 
Stuita Cruz rum daisy, v. 

Santa Cruz sour, v. 70 
Saratopra brace-up, v. 68 
sauterne cobbler, v. 67 
shandy-pa tf. v. 117 
sherry and bitters, v. 116 
sherry and egg, v. 116 
sherry- and ice, v. 116 
sherry cobbler, v. 66 
sleeper, v. 114 
sack posset, v. 122 
spiced wine, v. 124 
Bplit soda and brandy, v. 

117 
stone fence, v, 118 
tip-top brandy, v. 104 
usquebach, v. 5S 
ytMekey cobbler, v. 68 



Mixed drinks — w h i s k c y 
crusta, V. 61 

whiskey daisj", v. 61 

whiskey fix, v. 66 

whiskey julep, v. 64 

whiskey smash, v. 65 

whiskey sour, v. 71 

whiskey toddy, v. 73 

white lion. v. 70 

white plush, v. 119 

white tift-er's milk, v. 115 

white-wine neg'us, v. 125 

white-wine whey, v. 124 
Mixing- and serving- drinks; 
hints to the mixer, v. 51 

batters and fritters, ii. 
196 
Mocha cake, iv. ISO 
Mock bisque, iii. 58 

terrapin soup. iii. 95 

turtle soup, iii. 71 

turtle bean soup, iii. 80 
Modern wines of Greece, v. 

161 
Molasses cookies, iv, 202 

sauce, iv. 312 
Morning-g-lory cocktail, v. 55 
Muttins, egg, iv. 145 

I'>ng-lish, iv. 142 

Graham, iv. 144 

hominy, iv. 144 

oatmeal, iv. 145 

raised, ii. 236 

rice, iv. 144 

Sally Lunn, iv. 144 
Mulled cider, v. 84 

wine, V. 84 

wine witli eggs, v. 83 
Mushrooms, creamed, v. '2 
Mulligatawny soup, iii. 2\ 
Mush, boiled corn-meal, ii 
228 

Indian, fried, ii. 172 
Mushrooms, baked, iv. 3J 

broiled, iv. 33 

button, stewed, iv. 35 
Mushroom catsup, iv 38 

consomme, with, ill 17 
creamed, iv. 35 
escalloped, iv. 36 



268 



INDEX 



Mushroom omelet, iii. 343 
pickled, iv. 21) 
ragout, iv. 36 
melon, iv. 121 
sauce, iii. 197 
soup, cream of, iii. 44 
toast, creamed, iv. 150 
with bacon, iv. 37 
and beefsteak pie, iv. 34 
^Mustard sauce, iii. 19.') 
Musieales and dramatics, i. 

187 
Musicals, general hints, i. 
i. 187 
guests' punctual arrival, i. 

191 
invitations and acknowl- 
edgments, i. 190 
programme printed, i. 191 
programme, selection of, i. 

187 
refreshments, costume, 

etc., i. 191 
when very informal, i. 191 
Muskmelon fritters, iv. 119 
Mutton, ii. 27 
and lamb, how divided by 

the butcher, ii. 29 
and lamb, sheeps' heads, 
kidneys, liver, and heart, 
ii. r;o 
boiled, recipe, ii. 156 
boiled, caper sauce, ii. 156 
broth, iii. 29; iv. 266 
broth, Scotch, iii. 30 
chops, broiled, iii. 239 
chops, pan-broiled, iii. 240 
curried, iii. 242 
cutlets and mushrooms, iii. 

239 
fillet of, braised, iii. 241 
haricot, iii. 2!2 
how to select, ii. 128 
kebobbed, iii. 243 
leg of, ii. 29 
loin of, roasted, iii. 243 
pie, iii. 295 
roast, ii. 29, 192 
saddle of, ii. 29 
shoulder of, ii. 29 



Mutton, shoulder of, stuffed, 
iii. 240 
Southdown, ii, 27 

Napkin, use of, i. 63 
Names, foreign, of meats, 
fruits, and vegetables, 
v. 209-211 
Nectar, for dog days, v. 40 

launch, V. 112 
Negus, 86, 87 

Nesselrode pudding, iv. 320 
" Never too late to learn," ii. 

332 
New England pot roast, iii. 

231 
Non-such punch, v. 103 
Noodles (see " Nudels ") 
Nougat, iv. 338 
Nudels, buttered, iv. 28 

fritters, iv. 29 

macaroni, boiled in milk, 
iv. 26, 27 

with Parmesan, or au 
gratin, iv. 28 
Nuremberg punch, v. 105 
Nut and fruit sandwich, iv. 
157 

and tomato soup, iii. 47 

butter, V. 14 

butter sandwich, iv. 155 

croquettes, or cutlets, v. 17 

sandwich, iv. 153 * 

souffle, V. 16 
Nuts, and their uses, v. 13 

general discussion, ii. 275 

pudding, iv. 284 

chestnuts, v. 16 

cocoanut, v. 15 

glazed, v. 16 

marron glace, v. 13 

salted, v. 15 

sugared, v. 15 

Oats, rolled, ii. 225 
Oatmeal, ii. 194, 224 

muffins, iv. 145 

porridge, iv. 129 

puree, iii. 61 

Scotch, ii. 226 



INDEX 



269 



Oatmeal gruel, li. 285 
Odors, removed by charcoal, 

ii. 345 
Okra soup, iii. 80, 77 
Old Navy toast, v. 199 
Olive sauce, iii. 197 
Olla podrida, iii. 238 
01oro.so, V. 155 
Omelet, ii. 92 93; v. 7 

asjjaragus, iii. 342 

baked, iii. 345 

cheese, iii. 342; v. 9 

French, v. 8 

fruit, iii. 344 

preen corn, iii. 342 

ham, iii. 342 

mushroom, iii. 343 

nut, V. 9 

onion, iii, 344 

oyster, iii. 344 

plain, iii. 341 

tomato, iii. 343 

rum, V. 9 

Spanish, v. 8 

sweet, V. 9 

with peas, iii. 346 
Onions, ii. 214 

a hi creme, iv. 89 

boiled, ii. 219 

for beefsteak, etc., iv. 92 

pickled, iv. 88, 257 

plain boiled, iv. 90 

Spanish, baked, iv. 90 

stewed, iv. 91 

stuffed and baked, iv. 91 

with prated cheese, iv. 93 

and epps, iv. H9 

cream soup, iii. 37 

omelet, iii. 344 

porridge, iv. 89 

sauce (soubise sauce) , iii. 
200 

soup, simple, iii. Cfi 

soup (Spanish), iii. 27 
Orangeade, v. ;;r> 
Orange cake, iv. 192 

fritters. Iv. 104 

jelly, iv. 2GG 

prepared for invalid, ii. 286 

pudding, iv. 290 



Ora^'.ge punch, v. 112 

s:'uce. iii. 194, 323 

sherbert, v. 40; iv. 32' 

how to serve, iv. 126 
Orgeat lemonade, v. 3<» 

punch, V. 95 
Origin and history of wines, 
V. 12() 

of " toasts," V. 175 
" Our Absent Friends " 

(toast), V. 204 
"Our Country" (toast), v. 

205 
Oven, how to reduce tem-: 

perature in, ii. 2G4 
Oxford punch, v. lOS 
Ox kidney, stewed, iii. 327 
Oxtail soup, iii. 27 
Oysters, ii. 58 

a la Newburg, v. 5 

and mushrooms, iii. 177 

bisque, iii. 55 

broiled, ii. 06 

broiled, in the shell, or on 
the half shell, iii. 175 

broiled on toast, iii. 176 

chicken stuffed with, iii. 
301 

cocktail, iii. 175 

creamed, ii. 64; iii. 174 

fried, ii. GG; iii. 176 

gumbo, iii. 31 

how to broil without open- 
ing, iii. 175 

Old Virginia fried, iii. 177 

omelet, iii. 344 

on the half shell, iii. 173 

plant, iv. 3a 

plant, creamed, iv. 33 

plant, fried, iv. 32 

panned, ii. 64 

I)reparing, ii. 64 

" roast " in their own 
liquor, iii. 179 

sauce, iii. 199 

scalloped, ii. 65; iii. 178 

season for. i. 10 

served on half shell, i. 16 

souj), Virginia, iii. 46 

atew, ii. 65 



270 



INDEX 



Oysters, stewed, iii. 174 
rarebit, v. 5 
stuffing, iii. 303 

Panada, iv. 267 
Pan-broiled mutton chops, 
iii. 240 

steak, iii. 206 
Pan-broiling, ii. 183 
Pancakes, iv. 172 

(a la creme), iv. 173 

cream, iv. 174 

English, iv. 172 

French, iv. 174 

plain, iv. 173 

snow, iv. 174 

without eggs, iv. 175 
Paris, fish, a la, iii. 115 
Parisian pousse cafe, v. 69 

soup, iii. 65 

Spanish soup, iii. 64 
Parmesan cheese and oys- 
ters, iv. 344 
Parsley butter, iii. 200 
Parsnips, ii. 212, 221 

soup, iii. 81 
Partridges, baked, iii. 316 
Parsnips, boiled, iv. 39 

browned under roast meat, 
iv. 40 

fried, iv. 40 
Party (see " Ball ") 
Paste, "brioche, ii. 253 

for common pies, ii. 248 

French, for meat-pies, ii. 
249 

puff, ii. 249 

shortcake, ii. 250 
Pastry, ii. 247 

recipes, ii. 250 
Pate, veal liver, iii. 283 
Patties, chicken, iii. 293 

sweetbread (vol-au-vents), 
iii. 288 
Peach and honey, v. 121 

shortcake, iv. 178 
Peaches, sweet pickled, iv. 

258 
Peanut jumbles, iv. 204 

soup, iii. 46 



Peppers, stuffed, iv. 253 
Peanut brittle, iv. 337 
Pears, chipped gingered, iv. 
272 
Imperial, iv. 117 
sweet pickled, iv. 258 
Peas, iv. 46; ii. 215 
boiled, ii. 218 
dried, ii. 221 
green, iv. 49 
green, a la creme, iv, 50 
green, to boil, iv. 48 
green, stewed, iv. 49 
omelet with, iii. 346 
puree of, iv. 50 
stewed, in turnip cups, iv. 

51 
soup, cream of, iii. 38 
(hard-) soup, iii. 70 
(split-^ soup, iii. 81 
(split-) soup (A"o . 2), iii 
79 
Peppers, Creole, iv. 113 
stewed, iv. 114 
stuffed sweet, iv. 113 
Pepper sauce, iii. 1S9 
Perch, fried, iii. 1G4 
Pfeffernessle, iv. 205 
Pheasant, broiled, iii. 319 
Philadelphia fish-house 

punch, V. 102 
Piccalilli, iv. 254 
Pickerel, baked, iii. 164 

boned, baked, iii. 165 
Pickle relishes, iv. 252 
Pickles, green tomato sweet, 

iv. 258 
Pickled beets, iv. 58 
cucumbers, iv. 82 
gherkins, iv. 256 
mushrooms, iv. 39 
onions, iv. 88, 257 
pears or peaches, sweet, 

iv. 258 
salmon, iii. 144 
walnuts, iv. 254 
Pies, apple, ii. 251 
apple, Dutch, iv. 276 
apple dumpling, baked, iv. 
375 



INDEX 



27i 



Pies — apple potple, iv. 276 

apple tarts, iv. 279 

Banbury tarts, iv. 277 

chieken-and-ham iii. 229 

chocolate, iv. 280 

cottager's, iv. 34 

cream, iv. 2S0 

cream apple, iv. 276 

cream ptitTs, iv. 281 

currant tarts, iv. 279 

fowl, iii. 228 

g'ooseberry, iv. 278 

gooseberry tarts, iv. 279 

green apple, iv. 275 

lemon, ii. 252; iv. 280 

mince, ii. 252 

mince-meat, iv. 278 

mince patties, iv. 278 

paste for, ii. 248, 249 

beefsteak, iii. 293 

mutton, iii. 295 

giblet, iii. 294 

chicken, iii. 291 

pumpkin, iv. 278 

pumpkin or squash, iv. 279 

rosettes, iv. 281 

salmon, iii. 145 

squa.sh, or pumpkin, iv. 279 

tartlets, iv. 279 
Pig, sucking, roast, iii. 259 
Pigeon, ii. 38 

Pigeons, stuffed and roasted 
(German method), ill. 318 
Pigs' ears, baked, iii. 252 

feet, boiled, iii. 252 

feet, stuffed a la Peri- 
gueux, iii. 253 
Pigs in blankets, iii. 180 
Pike, baked in sour cream 

(CJerman), iii. 162 
Pineapples, iv. 129 
Pineapple julep, v. 64 

punch, V. 106 

water, v. 37 
" Pink teas," i. 61 
Piquant sauce, iii. 186 
Pique, meat, ii. 202 
Pistachio ice cream, iv. 320 
Plain layer cake, iv. 183 

omelets, iii. 341 



Planked fish — shad, iii. 134 

I'late, fish, iii. 113 

Plovers, roasted, iii. 317 

Plum pudding, Christmas, iv. 
287 

Poached eggs, iii. 334 

Polenta, iv. 45 

Popovers, ii. 199; iv. 176 

Pork, ii. 31 

Ponouchi, iv. 337 

Pony brandy, v. 116 

Popcorn balls, iv. 340 

Pork, broiled, and Chili 
sauce, iii. 251 
chops, ii. 31 
chops, broiled, iii. 260 
chops, fried, iii. 260 
curried, iii. 250 
cutlets, fried, iii. 251 
indigestibility, ii. 31 
leg of, stuffed and roasted, 

iii. 261 
loin of, roast, iii. 263 
selecting in market, ii. 130 
spare-rib of, roasted, iii. 
262 

Porridge, ii. 224 

milk, ii. 285; iv. 131 
oatmeal, iv. 129 
onion, iv. 89 

Port wine, v. 150 
wine flip, v. 83 
wine negus, v. 86, 87 
wine sangaree, v. 85 
wine sauce, iii. 200, 323 

Porter sangaree, v. 86 

Porteree, v. 86 

Porterhouse steak, ii. 27 

Portuguese soup, iii. 100 

Potpie, apple, iv. 276 

I'ot an feu, iii. 101 

I'otpie, chicken, iii. 228 
veal, iii. 209 

Pot roast, ii. 26 

roast, New England, iii. 231 
roast of beef, iii. 222 
roast, recipe, ii. 175 

Potato balls, brown, ii. 217 
balls, fried, iv. 3 
balls surprise, ii. 217 



272 



INDEX 



Potato basket, iv. 5 
cakes, iv. 1 
chowder, iii. 97 
cream of, iii. 44 
croquettes, iv. 13 
croquettes, sweet, iv. 12 
dressing for duck, iii, 203 
fritters, iv. 14 
puff, iv. 4 
ribbons, iv. 14 
rice, iv. 12 
souffle, iv. 5 
sweet, souffle, iv. 6 
(browned) soup. iii. 78 
(savory) soup, iii. 78 
a la creme, iv. 15 
au gratin, iv. 3 
baked, iv. 4; ii. 215 
boiled, iv. 7 
boiled in their jackets, iv. 

8 
boiled, recipe, ii. 155 
broiled, iv. 9 
browned, mashed, iv. 1 
browned under a roasting 

joint, iv. 9 
casserole, iv. 13 
cooking, peeling, etc., ii. 

209 
creamed, ii. 217 
discussion of, ii. 98 
French fried, iv. 2 
fried raw, iv. 3 
fried, recipe, ii. 171 
German fried, iv. 9 
hashed brown iv. 10 . 
lyonnaise, iv. 1 
mashed, iv. 6 
mashed, recipe, ii. 155 
Saratoga chips, iv. 10 
saute, ii. 170 
scalloped, iv. 12 
selecting according to size; 

washing, ii. 211 
Southern sweet, ii. 217 
steamed, ii. 195 
stuffed, iv. 2 

sweet, and apples, iv. 11 
sweet, au gratin, iv. 11 
sweet, escalloped, iv. 11 



Potatoes — what sort to boil, 
ii. 99 
with white sauce, iv. 7 

Poulette, cod tongues, iii. 129 

Poultry — baked chicken, iii. 
296 
baked fried chicken, iii. 

297 
capon, roasted with cream 

stuffing, in. 304 
carving, v. 25 
chicken curry, iii. 299 
chicken en casserole, iii. 

300 
chicken stuffed with oys- 
ters, iii. 301 
chicken terrapin, iii. 298 
chicken timbales, iii, 301 
cleaning, ii. 36 
drawing, ii. 35 
fricasseed chicken, iii, 299 
fried chicken, iii. 296 
hanging up; picking and 

scalding, ii. 34 
Indian burdwan, iii. 30G 
killing a fowl, ii. 34 
kuwab fowl, iii. 305 
pates of foies gras, iii. 313 
pilan of chicken, iii. 300 
pressed chicken, iii. 298 
roast turkey, iii. 302 
roti de pauvre homme, iii. 

304 
scalloped chicken, iii. 297 
selecting, ii. 34 
treatment of, before kill- 
ing, ii. 33 
trussing, ii. 36 

Pound cake, iv. 195 

Pousse cafe, v. 68, 69 
I'amour, v. 68 

Preserves, ii, 272 

Pressed spiced beef, iii. 220 

Prime ribs of beef, ii. 27 

Prune sauce, iv. 312 

sauce for pudding, iv. 312 

Prunes, stewed, iv. 128 

Puddings, ii. 256 
apple mange, iv. 301 
apple meringue, iv. 291 



INDEX 



273 



Puddinps — apple, or other 

fruit souffle, iv. 294 
apple pudding (English), 

iv, 283 
apple snow. No. 1, iv. 298 
apple snow. No. 2, iv. 

302 
apple tapioca, ii. 201; iv. 

2S9 
apricot custard, iv. 300 
arrowroot souflle. iv. 294 
baked batter, iv. 293 
baked custard, iv. 299 
baked rice, ii, 2(i0 
baked sago, iv. 291 
batter, ii. 258 
blackberry, iv. 299 
boiled custard, iv. 299 
IJoston dcliR-ht. iv. 288 
bread custard, 292 
brown bread, iv. 292 
caramel, iv. 296 
Charlotte russe, iv. 298 
cherry, iv. 290 
chocolate, iv. 290 
cracker raisin, iv. 288 
date, iv. 289 
Halting island, iv. 300 
frozen custard, iv. 300 
frozen plum. .301 
frozen fig. iv. 324 
boiled Indian-meal, iv. 281 
bread, ii. 2<'] 
bread, light, iv. 2r,l 
chicken and rice, iii. 303 
Christmas plum, iv. 287 
corn, iv. 53 
cottage, iv. 2S2 
flavoring, ii. 2.")8 
fruit roly-poly, iv. 285 
gooseberry, iv. 283 
ground rice souffle, iv. 295 
gruetz. iv. 2S3 
heavenly hash, iv. 297 
huckleberry, iv. 200 
Indian tapioca, ii. 260 
Jewish almnnd. iv. 293 
lemon sou file. iv. 2Ur> 
meat, extra care necessarv, 

ii. 259 



I*uddings — nesselrode, iv. 320 

nut. iv. 2.S4 

orange, iv. 290 

plum, keeping for months, 
ii. 259 

Polish, iv. 286 

prejjaring ingredients, ii. 
258 

rice, iv. 289 

rice, Xo. 2. iv. 290 

Rotterdam, iv. 285 

rum, iv. 285 

Russian taganrok. iv. f 

sauces (see "Sauces",, li. 
148 

snow eggs, iv. 298 

snow, iv. 297 

sponge-cake. iv. 267 

steamed, ii. 257 

steamed Graham, iv. 288 

strawberry, iv. 302 

suet, iv, 283 

tapioca custard, iv. 297 

cloth, never wash with 
soap. ii. 200 
PutTs, egg-])lant, iv. 59 
Pullc<l bread, iv. 133 
Punch, see also " Mixed 
drinks " 

a la Ford, v. 110 

a la Romaine, v. 108 

grassot, V. 97 

Heidelberg, v, 58 

jelly, V, 111 

.Tune tea, v. 32 

Lalla Rookh, iv. 3.32 
Puree, baked, iv. 51 

carrot, iii. 00 

green pea, iii, 59 

lima liean, iii. 60 

oatmeal, iii. 61 

of chestnuts, iv. Ill 

of turnips, iv. 107 

of .Terusalem artichokes, iv. 
OS 

of jieas, iv. 50 

of spinach, with butter, iv. 
86 

red bean, iii. 59 

tomato, iii. 63 



274 



INDEX 



Puree, tomato and green pea, 

iii. 62 
tomato and green pea 

without stock (No. 2), iii. 

63 
tomato with macaroni, iii. 

61 

Quails, roast, iii. 319 

trussing of. iii. 319 
Queen soup. iii. 35 

vermicelli soup, iii. 40 
Quenelle soiip, iii. 64 
Quick rolls, iv. 137 
Quin-ce liqueur, v. 85 

Babbit, ii. 41 
or hare (German hasen- 

pfeffer). iii. 315 
or hare, braised, iii. 314 
Radish, iv. 95 
Eagout, beef, iii. 219 
defined, ii. 161 
mushroom, iv. 36 
Raisin sauce, iv. 282 
Range, essentials for a good, 
ii. 133 
management of, ii. 131 
Raspberry shortcake, iv. 178 

shrub, V. 88 
" Reasons for drinking," v. 

203 
Receptions, i. 176 
costume, i. 180 
debut; debutante's cos- 
tume, and position in 
receiving, i. 186 
form and propriety, i- ISO 
guests' arrival, i. 182 
host and hostess' special 

duties, i. 185 
invitations, i. 177 
invitations, acknowledg- 
ment of, i. 179 
refreshments, i. 184 
" teas," i. 178 
Rechauffe of beef a la jar- 
diniere, iii. 226 
Red bean puree, iii. 59 
*omato soup, iii. 76 



Red snapper, baked, iii. 155 

snapper, boiled, iii. 155 

snapper soup, iii. 95 

snapper, steamed, iii. 154 
Regent's punch, v. Ill 
Relishes, fish, iv. 250 

pickle, iv. 253 
Remedies, some useful, ii. 

337 
Reply to toast, "The Host," 

V. 193 
Response to " The Ladies," 

V. 192 
Rhine wine and seltzer, v. 
117 

wines, v. 146 
Rhubarb, steamed, ii. 228 

stewed, iv. 125 

water, ii. 284 

wine, V. 49 
Rib roast, iii. 213 
Ricardo sauce for game, iii. 

325 
Rice, ii. 225 

and tomato soup, iii. 87 

boiled, plain, iv. 15 

boiled with milk, iv. 15 

Creole, iv. 17 

croquettes, iv. 16 

East Indian method, iv. 17 

for invalid, iv. 268 

fritters, iv. 19 

gems, iv. 146 

griddle cakes, iv. 170 

rice muffins iv. 144 

pudding, iv. 289, 290 

pudding, chicken and, iii. 
303 

risotto, iv. 16 

soup (savory), iii. 77 

soufiie, iv. 20 

steamed, ii. 226 
Risotto, iv. 16 
Rissoles of beef, iii. 218 

of fish, iii. 114 
Roast beef, iii. 210 

beef, recipe, " don'ts," ii. 
190 

beef, stuffed or farcied, iii. 
213 



INDEX 



275 



Roast canvas-back ducks, iii. 
308 

capon, with cream stuiBng, 
iii. 304 

chestnuts, iv. 113 

corn (old-fashioned), iv. 5G 

ham, iii. 2C7 
Roastinf? ears, iv. 54 

process, ii. 1S8 

meat, time for, ii. 190 

goose, iii. 311 

grouse, iii. 321 

gravy for, ii. 192 

lamb, time for, ii. 192 

lefr of lamb, iii. 244 

loin of mutton, iii. 243 

loin of pork, iii. 2G3 

mutton, ii. 192 

oysters (in their ovi'n 
liquor), iii. 179 

piff, sucking-, iii. 259 

plovers, iii. 317 

quails, iii. 319 

round, iii. 212 

ruddy ducks, iii. 309 

spare-rib of pork, iii. 262 

teal, iii. 310 

turkey, iii. 302 

veal, iii. 271 

veal, time for, ii. 192 

venison (German recipe), 
iii. 321 

woodcock, iii. 322 
Rochester punch, v. 103 
Rock and rye. v. 118 
Rocky Mountain punch, v. 99 
Roman punch, v. 96 
Rof* croquettes, iii. 136 
Rolls, breakfast, iv. 140 

currant, iv. 137 

Kufjli-sh breakfast, iv. 143 

Graham, iv. 141 

I'arker House, iv. 141 

quick, iv. 137 
Rolled V)oiIed beef, iii. 230 

oats, ii. 22."> 
Roly-poly fruit pudding, iv. 

286 
Roman punch, iced, iv. 331 
Root beer, v. 34 



Roots and tubercles, ii. 98 

Rosettes, iv. 281 

Roti de pauvre hommc, iiL 

304 
Rotterdam pudding, iv. 285 
Roux for thickening sauces, 

iii. 201 
Royal punch, v. 106 
Ruddy ducks, roast, iii. 308 
Rum, v. 174 
Rum and milk, v. 123 

cake, iv. 193 

flip (hot or cold), v. 82 

pudding, iv. 185 

shrub, V. 89 
Rusk, iv. 138 
Russian cream, iv. 309 
Russian Julienne soup, iiL 
22 

punch tart, iv. 197 
Russian sandwich, iv. 153 

zakouski, iv. 252 
Rye bread, iv. 135 

griddle cakes, iv. 168 

Sack posset, v. 122 
Sago pudding, baked, iv. 291 
soup, cream of, iii. 39 
soup, ii. 143 
soup (Hawaiian recipe), iii. 

66 
soup without meat, iii. 87 
Salads, ii. 237 
anchovy, iv. 240 
apple and celery, iv. 250 
apple and cress, iv. 250 
apple and nut, iv. 246 
apple and pineapple, iv. 

244 
artichoke, iv. 226 
asparagus, iv. 228 
asjiaragus and cucumbers, 

iv. 245 
asparagus and shrimp, iv. 

231 
baked banana, iv. 245 
banana and orange, iv. 248 
bean, iv. 218 
bean and beet, iv. 230 
beef, iv. 243 



276 



INDEX 



Salad, beet, farci, iv. 230 
Brunswick, iv. 229 
cabbage, iv. 230 
California fig, iv. 247 
cauliflower, in red-pepper 

cases, iv. 222 
celery, iv. 248 
cherry, iv. 248 
cheese, iv. 249 
chestnut, iv. 249 
chicken, iv. 241 
chicory, iv. 219 
chifPonade, iv. 225 
cold slaw, iv. 223 
crab, iv. 235 

crab (same as lobster No. 
3), iv. 234 

crab and tomato, iv. 236 
cucumber, iv. 224 
cucumber and tomato, iv. 

218 
currant, iv. 247 
daisy, iv. 231 
dandelion, iv. 224 
egg, with sardine mayon- 
naise, iv. 231 
endive, with winter, iv. 216 
fish, ornamental, iv. 239 
French, iv. 225 
French bean and celery, iv. 

227 
frozen tomato, iv. 222 
fruit, iv. 247 
German, iv. 226 
German potato, iv. 229 
how served at dinner, i. 18 
Independence Day (No. 1), 

iv. 218 
Independence Day (No. 2), 

iv. 219 
Italian, iv. 232, 241 
lettuce, ii. 240 
lettuce, German recipe, iv. 

216 
lettuce, iv. 220 
lettuce and tomato, iv. 218 
lettuce lemon, iv. 217 
lettuce, with egg dressing-, 

iv. 217 
lobster, ii. 241 



Salad, lobster (No. 1), iv. 
233 

lobster (No. 2), iv. 233 

lobster (No. 3), iv. 234 

lobster, dressing for, iv. 
234 

lobster coral sauce, dress- 
ing, iv. 235 

macedoine, iv. 227 

Manhattan, iv. 242 

meat, ii. 240 

mint lemon, iv. 217 

nasturtium, iv. 223 

ornamental fish. iv. 239 

oyster, iv. 237 

pea, iv. 232 

pimola and cheese, iv. 219 

pineapple, iv. 244 

plain egg. iv. 231 

poet's recipe for, iv. 208 

potato, ii. 241; iv. 229 

rainbow, iv. 222 

raspberry cream, iv. 245 

rules for, ii. 238 

Russian, iv. 240 

salsify, iv. 233 

salmon mayonnaise, iv. 238 

salmon, moulds, iv. 237 

sardine, iv. 23S 

sardine, or Saxon, iv. 240 

Saxon, iv. 240 

scallop, iv. 237 

shadroe, iv. 238 

shrimp and tomato aspic, 
iv. 236 

sorrel, iv. 227 

spinach, iv. 225 

summer, iv. 215 

surprise, iv. 217 

Swedish, iv. 239 

sweetbreads and cucum- 
ber, iv. 224 

sweetbreads with celery, 
iv. 243 

tarragon fruit, iv. 244 

timbale of chicken mayon- 
naise, iv. 241 

tomato, ii. 2^1 

tomato and corn, iv. 221 

tomato and peanut, iv. 221 



INDEX 



277 



Salad — tomato baskets with 
cueuinber jelly, iv. 220 

tomato jelly, iv. 221 

tomato, with whipped 
eream, iv. 222 

trutlle, iv. 228 

vejjetable, ii. 242 

vppt'table, in jelly, iv. 232 

Waldorf, iv. 249 ' 

walnut, iv. 249 

whales, iv, 220 

and relishes, iv. 20S 
Salad-dressings, ii. 242; iv. 
209 

stir ingredients carefully, 
ii. 340 

boiled, ii. 239; iv. 213 

boiled, Mrs. Hotehkin's, iv. 
214 

cream, iv, 212 

cream, boiled, iv. 213 

Dr. Kitchener's recipe, ii. 
244 

for lobster salad, iv. 234 

French, iv. 209 

Frcnc-h (No. 2), iv. 211 

Italian, iv. 209 

lemon, iv, 210 

mayonnaise, iv. 211 

mayonnaise cream, iv. 212 

orange, Iv. 210 

Bailee, fi la Lowry, ii. 240 

Konr cream, iv. 212 

sweet, iv. 209 

tarragon vinegar for, iv. 
213 

whipped crenm, iv. 212 

without oil, ii. 243 
Salad rolls, chicken, iv. 243 
Sally lunn, iv, 138 

nmfTins, iv. 144 
Salmi, defined, ii. 161 

duck, iii. .'JIO 
Salmon bi.sque, iii. 54 

boiled, iii. 141 

broiled smoked, iii, 144 

curry of, iii. 143 

mayonnaise, iii. 144 

on toast, iii. 145 

pickled, iii. 144 



Salmon pie, iii, 145 

scallop of, iii, 140 

trout, baked, iii. 142 

trout, boiled, iii. 143 
Salt, ii. 101 

effect on meat, il. 18d 
Salt.s — kinds of; why we Bait 
food. ii. 12 

cod, tid-bits, iii. 128 

cod, with brown butter, iii. 
119 

mackerel, baked, Ii. 187 
Sandwiches: 

Adelaide, iv. 157 

anchovy, iv. 161 

brunette, iv. 160 

cheese, iv. 152 

chicken, iv. 152 

egg, iv. 152 

fish, iv. 155 

Harlequin, iv. 164 

Irish, iv. 160 

Italian, iv. 159 

jam, iv. ir)8 

meat, iv. 151 

nut and fruit, iv. 157 

nut butter, iv. 155 

nut, iv. ir)3 

Russian, iv. 153 

salmon, iv. 156 

sardine, iv, 156 

supper, iv. 158 

tuti-frutti, iv, 154 

watercress, or other salad 
iv. 157 
Sangaree, v. 85, 86 
Santa Cruz, fix, v. 66 

fizz, V. 74 

rum daisy, v. 61 

rum punch, v. 91 

sour, V. 70 
Santina's pousse caf6, v. 

68 
Saratoga brace-up, v. 68 

cocktail, V. 56 

cooler, V, 38 

pousse cafe, v. 69 
Sardine fritters (Oerman), 
iii. 150 

sauce, iii. 189 



278 



INDEX 



Sauce, ii. 146 
a la Lowry, ii. 246 
allemande, iii. 187 
almond, for pudding, iv. 

313 
brain, iii. 274 
brown sugar, ii. 149 
caper, ii. 156 
chilli, iv. 258 
custard, iv. 297 
foamy, ii. 148 
for pudding, ii. 148 
golden, iv. 312 
hard, ii. 149 
hard, iv. 312 
hygienic cream, iv. 312 
lemon, ii. 149 

lemon, for pudding, iv. 313 
lobster-coral, iv. 235 
madiera, iii. 324 
molasses, iv. 312 
orange, iii. 328 
piquante, for roast beef, iii. 

194 
port wine, iii. 323 
prune, iv. 312 
shrimp, for baked bass, iii. 

154 
Spanish, iii. 324 
supreme, iii. 188 
sweet, for pudding, iv. 314 
thickening for, ii. 147 
tomato, for casserole, ii. 

178 
truffle, iv. 115 
Sauces (for fish), allemande, 

iii. 187 
cheese, iii. 190 
court-bouillon (for boiling 

fish), iii. 184 
cream, iii. 189 
cucumber, iii. 191 
dressing for baked fish, iii. 

190 
egg, iii. 190 
Hollandaise, iii. 186 
India, iii. 187 
lobster, iii. 185 
lobster, iii. 188 
pepper, iii. 189 



Sauce, piquant, iii. 186 
sardine, iii. 189 
shad-roe, iii. 190 
shrimp, iii. 189 
simple saiice for steamed 

or boiled fish, iii. 187 
supreme, iii. 188 
tartare (for broiled fish), 

iii. 185 
tomato, iii. 185 
tomato tartare, iii. 189 
Sauces (for game), madeira, 

iii. 324 
orange, iii. 194 
orange, iii. 323 
port wine, iii. 323 
Kicardo, iii. 325 
shikaree (for duck and 

wild fowl), iii. 325 
Spanish, iii. 324 
Sauces (for meats), ancho- 
vy, iii. 194 
Bechamel, iii. 195 
Bernaise, iii. 200 
bread, iii. 201 
brown, iii. 193 
caper, for mutton, iii. 201 
champagne, for ham, iii, 

198 
chestnut, for turkey or 

chicken, iii. 196 
chicken, for sweetbread, iii. 

198 
chive, iii. 197 
currant jelly, iii. 197 
drawn butter, iii. 191, 192 
Espagnole, iii. 196 
horseradish (hot), iii. 192 
madeira, iii. 195 
maitre d'hotel butter, iii. 

195 
mint (for young lamb), iii. 

196 
mushroom, iii. 197 
mustard, iii. 195 
olive, iii. 197 
onion (soubise sauce), iii. 

200 
oyster, iii. 199 
parsley butter, iii. 200 



INDEX 



279 



Sauce piquante, for roast 
beef, iil. 194 

port wine, iii. '-00 

roux (for thickening), iii. 
201 

Boubise (onion sauce), iii. 
200 

tomato, iii. 198 

veloute, iii. 192 

veloute with claret, iii. 192 

vinaigrette, iii. 192 

white, iii. 193 
Sauces (for puddings), al- 
mond, iv. 313 

cream, iv. 311 

currant jelly, iv. 311 

custard, iv. 311 

duchesse, iv. 311 

foaming, iv. 311 

golden, iv. 312 

hard, iv, 312 

hygienic cream, iv. 312 

lemon sauce for puddings, 
iv. 313 

molasses, iv. 312 

prune sauce for puddings, 
iv. 312 
Sauerkraut, how to dress, iv, 
76 

how to make, iv. 77 
Sausages, ii. 32; iii. 253 

baked, iii. 256 

boiled, with white wine, 
iii. 257 

devilled, iii. 256 

Frankfort, iii. 257 

fried, ii. 172 

Jewish, or Chorissa, iii. 237 

Mecklenburg liver, iii. 255 
Sauteing, ii. 170 
Sauternes, v. 144 

cobbler, v. 67 

punch, V. 95 
Savory potato soup, iii. 78 
Savory rice soup, iii. 77 
" Scalding " water, ii. 150 
Scallops and eggs, iii. 172 
Scallop of .•lalmon, iii. 146 
Scalloped atiparagug, iv. 63 

chicken, iii. 297 



Scalloped fish, iii. Ill 

oysters, iii. 178 

shad-roe, iii. 136 

sweetbreads with mush- 
rooms, iii. 284 

sweetbreads, iii. 283 

tomatoes and potatoes, iv. 
100 
Schnitzel, wiener, iii. 280 
Scotch hotchpotch, iii. 65 
Scotch kale, iv. 79 

mutton broth, iii. 30 

whiskey, v. 170 
Scrambled eggs, iii. 335 
Scrapple, fried, recipe, ii. 172 
Seasoning vegetables, ii. 156 
Seasons of the year for eat- 
ing various meats, ii. 22 

for kinds of fish, ii. 55, etc. 

of the year for oysters, 
i. IG 
Sea-urchins, iv. 120 
Seidlitz water, bottled, v. 34 
Seltzer lemonade, v. 39 
Servants, attitude toward, ii. 
340 

hints to the maid, ii. 324 

how to treat them, ii. 312 

the wife's province, ii. 306 

wh^ they leave, ii. 311 
Servants' rooms, ii. 310 
Serving a formal dinner, i. 24 
Seventh Regiment National 

Guard punch, v. 96 
Shad, baked, iii. 132 

broiled, iii. 134 

creamed, iii. 133 

planked, ii. 52 

roe, creamed, with mush- 
rooms, iii. 136 

roe, fried, iii. 134 

roe sauce, iii. 190 

roe, .scalloped, iii. 136 
Shandy-gaff, v, 117 
Sheep's head, ii. 30 

head a la Creole, iii. 157 

tongue in aspic, iv. 327 
ShelHish, ii. 58 (see aiso 

fish) 
Sherbet, lemon, ii. 284 



280 



INDEX 



Sherbet, orange, v. 40 
Sherry and bitters, v. 116 

and egg, v. 116 

and ice, v. 116 

cobbler, v. 66 

eggnogg, V, 74 

flip, V. 83 

punch, V. 95 

sangaree, v. 85 
Shikaree sauce (for duck 

and wild fowl), iii. 325 
Shirred eggs, iii. 340 
Shortbread, Scotch, iv. 139 

cake, iv. 177 

cake paste, ii, 250 

steaks, ii. 27 
Shoulder of mutton, stuffed, 

iii, 240 
Shrimps, iii. 172, 189 

and mushrooms, iii. 173 
Shrimp gumbo, iii. 97 

sauce for baked bass, iii. 
154 
Shrub, varieties of, v. 87-89 
Silver fizz, v. 76 

free use of ammonia bad 
for, ii. 346 

cake, iv. 183 

wedding speech, v. 195 

wedding toast, v. 207 
Simple home living, ii. 316 
Sirloin of beef, ii. 27 
Sixty-Ninth Regiment punch, 

v. 97 
Skink, Balnamoon, or Irish 

soup, iii. 32 
Sleeper, v. 114 

Smash, brandy, gin, or whis- 
key, V. 64, 65 
Smelts, baked, iii. 146 

fried, iii. 147 

stuffed, iii. 147 
Smoked salmon, broiled, iii. 

144 
Smothered beef, iii. 228 

meat, ii. 26 
Snails, edible, iii. 180 
Snapper, red, baked, iii. 155 

red, boiled, iii. 155 

red, soup, iii. 95 



Snapper, red, steamed, iii. 

154 
Snapping turtle, fricasseed, 

iii. 168 
Snaps, ginger, iv. 203 
Snipe, cooked (German fash- 
ion), iii. 320 
Snow cake, iv. 184 
eggs, iv. 207 
pudding, iv. 298 
Soda, how to be used with 
care instead of baking- 
powder, ii. 345 
cocktail, V. 40 
lemonade, v. 38 
nectar, v. 40 
negus, V. 87 
scones, Scotch, iv. 139 
Soft-clam chowder, iii. 92 
shell crabs, boiled, iii. 170 
shell crabs, fried, iii. 181 
Sole, filleted (a I'ltalienne), 

iii. 159 ' 

Soleras, the composition of, 

V. 155 
Sorbet of kirschwasser, iv. 
331 
of rum, iv. 332 
Sorrel soup, iii. 77 
cream of, iii. 43 
Soubise sauce (onion sauce), 

iii. 200 
Soup balls (matzoth), iii. 
106 
stock, ii. 135; iii. 1. (See 
also " Stock.") 
Soups, thickenings for, ii. 
147 
a la Grecque, iii. 44 
almond milk, iii. 34 
American, iii. 83 
apple, iii. 104 
baked-bean, iii. 83 
bean, iii. 82 

bean and tomato, iii. 79 
beef (French method), ii. 

144 
beef and chicken stock, 

iii. 8 
beef bouillon, iii. 9 



INDEX 



281 



Soups — beef, iii. 10 

tt-a (No. 1 and 2), iii. 11 
beer (German method), iii. 

102 
bisque of crabs, iii. 56 
bisque of halibut (No. 1), 

iii. 53 
bisque of lobster, iii. 55 
bouillabaisse, iii. 100 
browned potato, iii. 78 
brunoise, iii. 12 
calf's foot consomme, iii. 

14 
carrot, iii. 77 
carrot puree, iii. 00 
cheese bisque, iii. 57 
chicken, quickly made, iii. 

12 
chicken, with leeks and 

onions, iii. 12 
chicken, bisque, iii. 53 
chicken cream, iii. -11 
chicken pumbo, iii. 30 
chi<ken g^inabo, with oys- 
ters, iii, 31 
cider, iii. 104 
clam bisque, iii. .'j2 
clam chowder, iii. 91 
clear, with noodles, iii. 13 
cocnanut, iii, 70 
cock-a-leekie, iii. 66 
Colbert con.somnie. iii. 18 
consomme a Timperatrice, 

iii. 18 
consomme almond, iii. 14 
consomme amber, iii. 14 
consomme chestnut, iii. 19 
consomme curry, iii. 19 
consomme printaniere, iii. 

21 
consomme royal, iii. 20 
eonsouime spinach, iii. 19 
consomme with asparagus 

tii)s, iii. 16 
consomme with Brussels 

sprouts, iii. 16 
consomme with cucumber, 

iii. 16 
consomme with egg balls, 

111. 15 



Soups — consomme with 
mushrooms, iii. 17 
consomme with tomato 

blocks, iii. 20 
con.sommS with vermicelli, 

iii. 17 
corn bisque, iii. 57 
corn chowder, iii. 98 
courbniiillon, iii. 100 
crab, iii. 96 
cranberry, iii. 84 
Crecy, iii. 21 
cream, iii. 34 
cream cheese (No. 1 and 

2), iii. 36 
cream of asparagus, iii. CO 
cream of barley, iii. 43 
cream of beef, iii. 38 
cream of cabbage, iii. 45 
cream of cauliflower, iii. 51 
cream of celery, iii. 51 
cream of chestnuts, iii. 49 
cream of green jieas, iii. 51 
cream of lettuce, iii. r>0 
cream of mushroom, iii. 44 
cream of pea, iii. 38 
cream of potato, iii. 44 
cream of sago, iii. 39 
cream of sorrel, iii. 43 
cream of spinach, with *igg 

balls, iii. 48 
cream of turnip, iii. 39 
cream of watercress, iii. 41 
dried bean, iii. 69 
duches.se, iii. 34 
duchesse, consommS, iiL 18 
eel, iii. 95 
egfr, ii. 144; iii. 87 
egg balls, iii. 48 
English beef, iii. 21 
family, iii. 69 
farmer's chowder, iii. 74 
tish, iii. 95 
fish chowder, iii. 89 
Flemish, iii. 68 
French, iii. G9 
I'rench fisherman's chow- 
der, iii. 92 
fruit, iii. 103 
frijole, iii. 85 



282 



INDEX 



Soups — game, iii. 99 

giblet, iii. 22 

green-pea puree, iii. 59 

gumbo filee, iii. 32 

hard-pea, iii. 70 

hasty, iii. 23 

herb, with Parmesan, iii. 
67 

how served, i. 16 

hulled corn, iii. 42 

inexpensive, iii. 23 

Irish, or Balnamoon skink, 
iii. 32 

Jenny Lind's, iii. 41 

julienne, ii. 142; iii, 23 

kale brose, iii. 33 

leek, iii. 40 

left-over, iii. 25 

lentil, iii. 86 

lettuce, iii. 67 

lima-bean puree, iii. 60 

macedoine, iii. 35 

marrow balls for con- 
somme, iii. 17 

meagre, iii. 85 

mock bisque, iii. 58 

mock terrapin, iii. 95 

mock turtle, iii. 71 

mock turtle bean, iii. 80 

mulligatawny, iii. 25 

nut and tomato, iii. 47 

oatmeal puree, iii. 61 

okra, iii. 77, 80 

onion, simple, iii. 66 

onion (Spanish), iii. 27 

onion cream, iii. 37 

oxtail, iii. 27 

oyster bisque, iii. 55 

oyster gumbo, iii. 31 

Parisian-Spanish, iii. 64 

Parisian, iii. 65 

parsnip, iii, 81 

peanut, iii. 46 

Portuguese, iii. 100 

pot au feu, iii. 101 

potato chowder, iii. 97 

queen, iii. 35 

queen vermicelli, iii. 40 

quenelle, iii. 64 

red bean puree, iii. 59 



Soups — red-snapper, iii. 95 
red tomato, iii. 76 
rice and tomato, iii. 87 
Eussian julienne, iii. 24 
sago, ii. 143 
sago (Hawaiian recipe), iii. 

66 
sago, without meat, iii. 

87 
salmon bisque, iii. 54 
savory potato, iii. 78 
savory rice, iii. 77 
Scotch hotchpotch, iii. 65 
Scotch mutton broth, iii, 

30 
shrimp gumbo, iii. 97 
soft-clam chowder, iii. 92 
sorrel, iii. 77 
spinach, iii. 74 
split-pea, iii. 81 
split-pea (No. 2), iii. 79 
squash, iii. 86 
succotash, iii. 75 
terrapin, iii. 93 
tomato, ii. 142 
tomato bisque (No. 1), iii 

58 
tomato cream (Nos. 1 and 

2), iii. 37 
tomato puree, iii. 63 
tomato puree with mac- 
aroni, iii. 61 
tomato and bean soup, iii, 

75 
tomato and green corn, ii, 

143 
tomato and green-pea 

puree, iii. 62 
tomato and green - pea 
puree, without stock 
(No. 2), iii. 63 
tomato and macaroni, 

quickly made, iii. 45 
turkey, iii. 73 
turtle, iii. 94 
vegetable, ii. 141 . 
velvet, iii. 42 
velvet, maigre, iii. 65 
Virginia, oyster, iii. 46 
white bean, iii, 73 



INDEX 



2S3 



Bour butter, dough, batter, 
etc., how recovered, ii. 
344 
Sours — rum, gin, whiskey, 
brandy, Jersey, or egg, 
V. 70-72 
Souse, iii. 264 
Soyer's gin punch, v. 105 
Spanish onions, baked, iv. 90 
onion soup, iii. 27 
sauce, iii. .'524 
Spare-rib of pork, roasted, 

iii. 2G2 
Speech — after-dinner, v. 179 
after-dinner example, v. 188 
arranging notes, v. 181 
articulation and pronunci- 
ation, V. 187 
at breakfast, v. 178 
at golden wedding, v. 194 
at silver wedding, v. 195 
delivering, 186 
delivery, v. 184 
exordium, discussion, con- 
clusion, and peroration, 
V. 182 
ex tempore, v. 183 
how to prepare, 180 
Speechmaking, v. 175 
Speech, response to " The 
Ladies," v, 192 
response to toast, " The 

Host," V. 193 
"The Host," V. 193 
toasts, etc., v, 196-207 
writing out, v. 183 
Spiced pressed beef, iii. 220 
wine, V. 134 
tomatoes, iv. 259 
Spinach, ii. 214, 221 
as greens, iv. 84 
consomme, iii. 19 
cream of, with egg-balls, 

iii. 48 
eggs, and, iii. 339 
German mode of cooking, 

iv. 84 
how to serve, iv. 83 
puree of, with butter, iv. 
86 



Spinach soup, iii, 74 

with eggs. iv. 85 
Split-pea soup, iii. 81 

soup (No. 2), iii. 79 

soda and brandy, v. 117 
Sponge cake, iv. 193 

cake pudding, iv. 267 
Spread eagle punch, v. 102 
vSpringerles, iv. 204 
Sprouts, Brussels, iv. 73 

Brussels, saute, iv. 74 
Squab, ii. 39 

Squash, summer, how to 
cook, iv. 87 

winter, boiled, iv. 87 

soup, iii. 86 
Squirrel, ii. 40 
St. Charles punch, v. 96 
Starches and sugars, ii. 11 
Steak, carving of round and 
rump, v. 22 

a la hordelaise, iii. 227 

broiled, recipe, ii. 183 

halibut, Ji la Flamande, iii. 
140 

halibut, baked with toma- 
toes, iii. HO 

Hamburg, iii. 207 

how to Ijroil, iii. 205 

Italian, iii. 236 

pan-broiled, iii. 206 

venison, broiled, iii. 321 
Steamed red snapper, iii. 154 
Steaming meat, ii. 26 

process, ii. 193 
Stew, Irish, iii. 224 
Stewtd apples, iv. 123 

apples in whiskey, iv. 122 

beef, recipe, ii. 102 

brisket of beef, iii. 233 

button mushrooms, iv. 35 

carrots in cream, iv, 63 

celery (Ti la creme), iv. 60 

chestnuts, iv. 112 

codfish, iii. 127 

cucumbers, iv. 81 

lettuce, iv. 109 

onions, iv. 91 

ox kidney, iii. 327 

peas in turnip cups, iv. 51 



2S4 



INDEX 



Stewed peppers, iv. 114 

prunes, iv. 128 

rhubarb, iv. 125 

sweetbreads, iii. 287 

tomatoes, iv. 98 

tomatoes and corn. iv. 99 

turnips (a la Franqaise), iv. 
107 
Stewing-, meat prepared for, 
ii. 161 

process, ii. 154 

process and effects, ii. 158 

vegetables with meat, ii. 
161 
Stock, for consomme, iii. 8 

for soup, ii. 135 

from bones, iii. 7 
Stone fence, v. 118 
Stove, blacking, ii. 133 
Strawberry croquettes, iv. 120 

cups, iv. 120 

jelly, iv. 270 

pudding, iv. 302 

punch, V. 100 

sherbet, iv. 320 

shortcake, iv. 178 
Stuffed anchovies, iv. 250 

artichokes, iv. 67 

and baked onions, iv. 91 

and roasted Belgian hare, 
iii. 316 

and roasted leg of pork, iii. 
261 

and roasted pigeons (Ger- 
man method), iii. 318 

breast of veal, iii. 272 

cabbage, iv. 74 

calf's heart, iii. 329 

cucumber, iv. 80 

leg of mutton, iii. 238 

lettuce, iv. 110 

mangoes, iv. 255 

or farcied roast of beef, iii. 
213 

peppers, iv. 253 

sea bass, iii. 152 

shoulder of mutton, iii. 240 

smelts, iii. 147 

sweet peppers, iv. 113 

tomatoes, iv. 102 



Stuffed tomatoes with chicken 
salad, iv. 103 
tomatoes, with meat or 

fish, iv. 102 
turnips, large, iv. 108 
Stuffing, chestnut, iii. 303 
of chestnuts for pig, suck- 
ing, iii. 261 
oyster, iii. 303 
String beans (cream sauce), 
iv. 41 
beans boiled, iv. 40 
beans with gravy, iv. 41 
Sturgeon, iii. 166 
Subscription balls, invita- 
tions, i. 132 
soup, iii. 75 
Suet pudding, iv, 283 
Sugar (burnt), for sauces 
and soups, iii. 107 
how many " cups " to the 
pound, etc., ii. 293 
Summer salads, iv. 215 

squash, how to cook, iv. 
87 
Sunshine cake. iv. 181 
Supper, serving, i. 44 

at entertainment, table ar- 
rangements, i. 43 
chafing-dish, i. 46 
formal, menu, i. 43 
speech, v. 179 
Suppers, varieties and char- 
acter of, i. 42 
Surprise balls, ii. 217 

melon, iv. 326 
Swanenhalse, iv. 207 
Sweetbreads, ii. 31; iii. 
286 
a la creme, v. 4 
braised or smothered, iii. 

289 
boiled, with tomato sauce, 

iii. 286 
broiled, with stuffed toma- 
toes, iii. 287 
fried, iii. 289 
larded, a la financiere, iii. 

290 
scalloped, iii. 283 



IPJDEX 



286 



Sweetbreads, scalloped, with 
mushrooms, iii. 284 
stewed, iii. 287 
with spaghetti or maca- 
roni and tomatoes, iii. 
284 
C'weet bread croquettes, iii. 
288 
patties (vol-au-vents), iii. 
288 
Sweet pickles, green tomato, 
iv. 258 
pickled pears or peaches, 
iv. 258 
Sweetbread saute, v. 3 
Sweet potatoes and apples, 
iv. 11 
potatoes, au gratin, iv. 11 
potatoes, escalloped, iv. 11 
potato croquettes, iv. 12 
potato souffle, iv. 6 
Swiss cabbage, iv. 79 
Syrup, caramel, ii. 201 
Swiss cream, iv. :i03 

Table, average cost of ma- 
terial used in cooking, ii. 
294 
of wines for dinner, varie- 
ties, temperature, 
glasses, i. 30 
manners, i. 62 
manners, accidents, i. GS 
manners, '• Don'ts." i. 68 
manners, eating slowly, i. 

60 
manners, finger-bowls, i. 

66 
manners, knife and fork. 

i. 64 
manners, napkin, use of, i. 

63 
manners, salt, i. 67 
maiUHTs, spoon, i. 65 
manners, wine, i. 71 
speaking, v. 177 
" Tablespoonful," as meas- 
ure, ii. 293 
Taffy, plain, iv. 335 
Tapioca custard, iv. 297 



Tapioca jelly, iv. 267 
Tarragon vinegar for salad 

dressings, iv. 213 
Tart, gooseberry, iv. 124 
Tartare sauce (for broiled 

fish), iii. 185 
Tchai (Russian), v. 31 
Tea. ii. 207 
aftiMnoon entertainment. 
(See index for '* After- 
noon Tea ") 
hot, cold, V. 31 
never should be boiled, ii. 

2S0 
punch, V. 109 
punch (June), v. 32 
(jualities and effects, ii. 

2S0 
reciix'. ii. 286 
Ilussian, v. 31 
tchai (Russian), v. 31 
" Tea," see " Reception " 

with music, i. 191 
Teal ducks, broiled, iii. 309 

roast, iii. 310 
" Teaspoonful," ii. 293 
Temperature at which vari- 
ous wines are served, i. 
30 
Tenderloin of beef, ii. 27 
Terms u.sed in cooking, v. 

212-230 
Terrapin, v. 7 
chicken, iii. 298 
how to dress, iii. 16G 
(mock) soup iii. 95 
soup, iii. 93 
stewed, iii. 167 
Thanksgiving surprise, iv. 

193 
" The A m e r ic a n Flag," 

(toast), V. 207 
" The Host." V, 193 
" The Ladies," response to, 

V. 192 
"The Ladies," toasts, v. 199 
"The Newlv Wedded," toast 

to, V. 200 
" The Widow Malone," v. 200 
Theatre part>."cs, i. 196 



286 



INDEX 



Theatre parties, arrival at 
theatre, i. 196 
parties, box, etiquette, i. 

197 
parties, calling at boxes, i. 

198 
parties, chaperon, i. 200 
parties, condtict in the 

theatre, i. 196 
parties, conversation and 

applause, i. 19S 
parties, costume, men and 

women, i. 199 
parties, dining beforehand, 

i. 201 
parties, invitations, i. 200 
parties, invitations prompt- 
ly acknowledged, i. 203 
parties, meeting guests, 

etc., i. 202 
parties, seats assigned, i. 

202 
parties, seats at theatre, i. 
201 
Theatricals, see " Dramat- 
ics " 
Thickenings, for sauces, 

gravies, and soups, ii. 147 
Tidbits, salt cod, iii. 128 
Timbales. chicken, iii. 301, 

331 
Time for roasting meat, ii. 

190 
Time-t^ble for broiling, ii. 
1S4 
for cooking, ii. 295 
Tip-top brandv. v. 104 
" To an Easy Time " (toast), 

T. 204 
Toast, ii. 282, 286 
buttered, iv. 147 
cheese, iv. 151 
cream, iv. 149 
creamed, v. 10 
fried or French, iv. 149 
German, iv. 147 
mUk, iv. 149 

mushroom, creamed, iv. 150 
oyster, iv. 150 
salmon on, iii. 145 



Toast, tomato, iv. 105 
Toasts and speech-making, v, 

175 
Toddy, apple, brandy, gin, or 

whiskey, v. 72, 73 
Tom and Jerry, v. 79 
Tom Collins, brandv and gin, 
V. SI 

whiskey, v. 81 
Tomatoes, iv. 96. 100 

baked with eggs, iv. 101 

curried, with okra, iv. 97 

curried with rice, iv. 97 

eggs with, iii. 338 

French, iv. 106 

fried, recipe, ii. 171 

fried, iv. 103 

green, fried, iv. 104 

scalloped, and potatoes, iy. 
100 

spiced, iv. 259 

stewed, ii. 219: iv. 98 

stewed, and corn, iv. 99 

stuffed, iv. 102 

stuffed, with chicken salad, 
iv. 103 

stuffed, with meat or fish, 
iv. 102 

with aspic jelly, iv. 105 
Tomato and bean soup, iii. 75 

and green com soup. ii. 143 

and green pea puree, iii. 62 

and green pea puree with- 
out stock (No. 2), iii. 63 

and macaroni soup, quickly 
made. iii. 45 

(bean and) soup, iii. 79 

bisque, iii. 58 

catsup, iv. 258 

cream soup, Nos. 1 and 2, 
iii. 37 

nut and, soup. iii. 47 

omelet, iii. 343 

puree, iii. 63 

puree with macaroni, iii. 61 

(red) soup. iii. 76 

sauce, iii. 185, 198 

sauce for casserole, ii. 178 

souffle, iv. 106 

soup, ii. 142 



INDEX 



237 



Tomato tartare, iii. 189 

toast, iv. 105 

sw^eet pickles, green, iv. 2->8 
TongTie, beers, braised, iii. 
232 

beef, fiUets, sauteed, iii. 329 

calf's, boiled, iii. 273 

sheep's, in aspic, iii. 327 
TongTies, cod, poulette, iii. 
129 

cod, with black butter- 
sauce, iii. 129 

cod, with eg^ sauce, iii. 128 
Tough meat made tender 

with acid, ii. 346 
Tripe a la Creole, v. 3 

a la poulette, v. 3 
Truffle, iT. 114 

sauce, iv. 115 
Truffles aux champagne, iv, 
116 

with eggs, iv. 116 
Trussing', ii. 36 

of quails, iii. 319 
Tubercles, ii. 98 
Turbot a la creme, iii. 151 

fillet, iii. 152 
Turkey, bread for. iii. 303 

carving, v. 25 

hen preferable, ii. 33 

roast, iii. 302 

soup, iiL 73 
Turkevs, iL 37 
Turnips, ii. 213 

and potatoes, iv. 109 

boiled, ii. 220 

fried, iv. 108 

large, stuffed, iv. 108 

puree of, iv. 107 

soup, cream of, iii. 39 
Turnips, stewed, a la Fran- 

Caise, iv. 107 
Turtle, mock, soup, iii. 71 

mock, bean, iii. SO 

soup. iii. 94 
Tutti-frutti sandwich, iv. 154 

Unfermented bread, iv. 133 
United Service punch, v. 106 
Usquebaugh, v. 58 



Vanilla ice cream, iv, 317 

parfait, iv. 323 

punch, V. 94 
Veal, ii. 30 

blanquette of, with cncrun- 
bers, iii. 282 

breast of, stuffed, iiL 272 

broth, iv. 266 

croquettes, with mush- 
rooms, iiL 276 

cutlets. iL 31 

cutlets, breaded, with to- 
mato sauce, iii. 268 

cutlets, plain, iiL 268 

fricadelles of, iiL 272 

fricassee, recijje, iL 164 

fricassee, iii. 276 

how divided by butcher, IL 
30 

kidney, saute, t. 2 

liver pate, iii. 283 

loaf, iii. 277 

not very nutritiotis meat, 
ii. 16 

potpie, iii. 269 

roast, iiL 271 

roast, tincie for. ii. 192 

shoulder of, boned, ii. 204 
Vegetables. artichokes a 
ritalienne. iv. 68 

artichokes, fried, iv. 66 

artichokes. Jerusalem, fri- 
casseed, iv. 67 

artichokes. stewed in 
gravy, iv. 66 

artichokes, stuffed, iv. 67 

asparagus a la creme. iv. 65 

baked egg and tomatoes, 
iv. 104 

baked mushrooms, iv. 37 

baked puree, iv. 51 

baked Spanish onions, iv. 
90 

beans, fricasseed i^- ** 
mashed, iv. 44 

beets, iv. 56 
boiled, iv. 58 

beet greens, with young 
beets, iv. 57 

boiled asparagus, ir. 64 



2SS 



INDEX 



Vegetables — boiled cabbage, 

iv. 76 
boiled carrots, iv. 62 
baked cauliflower, iv. 69 
boiled celery, iv. 60 
baked egg-plant, iv. 59 
boiled parsnips, iv. 39 
boiled winter squash, iv. 87 
boiling, ii. 155 
Boston baked beans, iv. 46 
broiled green corn, iv. 56 
broiled mushrooms, iv. 33 
Brussels sprouts, iv. 73 

saute, iv. 74 
cabbage, a la Lilloise, iv. 75 
cabbage and bacon, iv. 72 
cabbage, how to keep fresh, 

iv. 75 
carrots, how to dress in 

the German way, iv. 63 
carrots, a la Flamande, iv. 

61 
cauliflower, au gratin, iv. 

70 
cauliflower, boiled with 

butter sauce, iv. 69 
cauliflower, how to cook, 

iv. 68 
cauliflower in cheese, iv. 

72 
cauliflower with stufiing, 

iv. 71 
cauliflower with tomato 

sauce, iv. 71 
celery, how to dress, iv. 6b 
celery, how to fry, iv. 61 
chestnuts, compote of, iv. 

112 
chestnuts, puree of, iv. Ill 
chestnuts, roasted, iv. 113 
chestnuts, stewed, iv. 112 
common, preparing to 

cook, ii. 223 
coking in water, ii. 209 
cottager's pie, iv. 34 
corn, iv. 52 
corn fritters, iv. 53 
com pudding, iv. 53 
creamed beets, iv. 58 
creamed cabbage, iv. 73 



Vegetables — creamed corn, iv. 

54 
creamed mushrooms, iv. 35 
cucumbers, a la poulette, 

iv. 81 
cucumbers, how to dress. 

iv. 83 
cucumber mangoes, iv. 79 
curried lentils, iv. 46 
curried tomatoes with 

okra, iv. 97 
curried tomatoes with rice, 

iv. 97 
egg-plant puffs or fritters, 

iv. 59 
egg-plant, stuffed with 

nuts, iv. 59 
endive, dressed, iv. 110 
escalloped cauliflower, iv. 

69 
escalloped corn, iv. 52 
escalloped mushrooms, iv. 

36 
fagadu bradu, iv. 86 
foreign names of, v. 209- 

211 
French beans ii la maitre 

d'hotel, iv. 41 
French tomatoes, iv. 106 
fricasseed asparagus, iv. 65 
fried corn, iv. 55 
fried egg-plant, iv. 59 
fried tomatoes, iv. 103 
green corn omelet, iv. 55 
green corn souffle, iv. 53 
green peas, a la creme, iii. 

50 
green peas, to boil, iv. 48 
green tomatoes, fried, iv. 

104 
grilled tomatoes, iv. 100 
haricot beans (lima 

beans) a la maitre 

d'hotel, iv. 42 
haricot beans, with onions, 

iv. 43 
horseradish, iv. 95 
horseradish sauce, iv. 95 
Jerusalem artichokes 

stewed, iv. 66 



* 



INDEX 



289 



Vegetables — kidney beans, iv. 
45 
leeks, iv. 93 

leeks, how to boil, iv. 94 
lettuce, stewed, iv. 109 
lettuce, stutTed, iv. 110 
lima beans a la poulette, 

iv. 43 
mushroom catsup, iv. .'!S 
mushroom rapout, iv. 'M 
mushrooms with bacon, iv. 

37 
mushroom and beefsteak 

pie, iv. 34 
onions, a la creme, iv. 8, 
onions and eggs, iv. 89 
onions for beefsteak, etc., 

iv. 92 
onion porridge, iv. 89 
onions, stutTed and baked, 

iv. 91 
onions, with grated cheese, 

iv. 93 
oyster-plant, iv. 32 
oyster-plant, creamed, iv. 

33 
oyster-plant, fried, iv. 32 
parsnips browned under 

roast meat, iv. 40 
parsnips, fried, iv. 40 
peas, iv. 46 
peas, green, iv. -19 
peas, green, stewed, iv. 49 
peppers, Creole, iv. 113 
percentage of water in, ii. 

99 
pickled beets, iv. .'58 
pickled cucumbers, iv. 82 
pickled mushrooms, iv. 39 
pickled onions, iv. 88 
plain boiled onions, iv. 90 
polenta, iv. 4.'j 
puree of Jerusalem arti- 
chokes, iv. 68 
puree of peas, iv. 50 
radish, iv. 95 
recipes, iv. 1 

roasted corn (old-fash- 
ioned), iv. 56 
roasting ears, iv. 54 



Vegetables — rules for cook- 
ing, ii. 222 
sauerkraut, how to dress, 

iv. 76 
sauerkraut, how to make, 

iv. 77 
.scalloped asparagus, iv. 63 
scalloped tomatoes and po- 
tatoes, iv. 100 
Scotch kale, iv. 79 
seasoning, ii. 156 
soup, ii. 141 

spinach as greens, iv. 84 
spinach, German mode of 

cooking, iv. 84 
spinach, how to serve, iv. 

83 
spinach, puree of, with 

butter, iv. 86 
spinach with eggs, iv. 85 
stewed button mushrooms, 

iv. 35 
stewed carrots in cream, iv, 

63 
stewed celery (a la creme), 

iv. 00 
stewed cucumbers, iv. 81 
stewed onions, iv. 91 
stewed peas in turnip-cups, 

iv. 51 
stewed peppers, iv. 114 
stewed tomatoes, iv. 98 
stewed tomatoes and com, 

iv. 99 
string beans, boiled, iv. 40 
string beans (cream 

sauce), iv. 41 
string beans with gravj', iv. 

41 
stuffed cabbage, iv. 74 
stuffed cucumber, iv. 80 
stuffed sweet peppers, iv. 

113 
stuffed tomatoes, iv. 102 
succotash, iv. 53 
summer squash, how to 

cook, iv. 87 
Swiss cabbage, iv. 79 
take longer to cook in win- 
ter, ii. 213 



290 



INDEX 



Vegetables — tomatoes, iv. 96 
tomatoes, baked with eggs, 

iv. 101 
tomatoes, stuffed with 

chicken salad, iv. 103 
tomatoes, stuffed with 

meat or fish, iv. 102 
tomatoes with aspic jelly, 

iv. 105 
tomato toast, iv. 105 
tomato souffle, iv. 106 
truffle, iv. 114 
truffle sauce, iv. 115 
truffles aux champagne, iv. 

116 
truffles with eggs, iv. 116 
turnips and potatoes, iv. 

109 
turnips, fried, iv. 108 
turnips, puree of, iv. 107 
turnips, large, stuffed, iv. 

108 
turnips, stewed (a la Fran- 

Qaise), iv. 107 
vegetable cutlets, iv. 70 
vermicelli, a la reine, iv. 31 
vermicelli with milk, iv. 31 
winter squash, boiled, iv, 87 
Vegetarianism, ii. 106 
Vegetarian coffee, v. 30 

fruit course, iv. 120 
Veloute sauce with claret, iii. 

192 
Velvet cream, iv. 304 
molasses candy, iv. 336 
soup, iii. 42 
soup maigre, iii. 65 
Venison, ii. 40 

roast (German recipe), iii. 

321 
steaks, broiled, iii. 321 
when in season, ii. 32 
Vermicelli, iv. 30 
(invalid), iv. 268 
• a la Reine, iv. 31 
Qonsomme with, iii. 17 
soup, queen, iii. 40 
with broiled chicken, iv. 30 
with milk, iv. 31 
Vermouth cocktail, v. 56 



Vermouth cocktail, fancy, v. 

56 
Vinaigrette of cold meat, iii. 
281 
sauce, iii. 192 
Vintage, v. 135 
Violette cake, iv. 183 
Virginia oyster soup, iii. 46 
Visiting and house parties, i. 

209 
Visiting — after-thought of 
hostess, i. 229 
departure, i. 223 
clothes, i. 224 
farewells, i. 227 
guests' duties, i. 225 
guests' expenses, i. 222 
invitation, suggesting train 

for arrival, i. 210 
invitation to house partj', 

reply to, i. 212 
length of visit specified, i. 

209 / 

servants' duties, i, 222 
tips, i. 225 

welcoming guests, i. 220 
writing to hostess after, i. 
228 

Waflfles, rice, iv. 166 
Waiters at formal dinner, i. 

25 
Wafers, walnut, iv. 204 
Walnuts, pickled, iv. 254 
Walnut wafers, iv. 204 
Wassail bowl, v. 98 
Water — alum for turbid, ii. 
345 
containing salt or sugar, 

hard to boil, ii. 153 
gruel, iv, 268 
ice, lemon, ii. 284 
ices, iv. 328 
Watermelon pickle, iv. 257 
Water-toast, ii. 287 
Water — when not to use after 

boiling, ii. 151 
Watercress, cream of, iii. 40 
or other salad, sandwicji,- 
iv. 157 W 






INDEX 



29J 



Weddinps. i. 230 

anniversary receptions, re- 
plying to invitation, i. 

2cb 

anniversaries, invitations, i. 

259 
" At Home " cards after 

honeymoon, i. 295 
awnings, carpets, etc., i. 

270 
bouquets for bride and 

bridesmaids, i. 271 
boxes of cake, i, 286 
breakfast, i. 299 
bridal party at the church, 

1. 274 
bride, i. 272 

bridegroom's dinner, i. 265 
bride's cape, i. 299 
bridesmaids' costumes, 

flowers, etc., i. 272 
bridesmaids' dinner, i. 263 
bride's privileges, i. 293 
cake, iv. 186 
calling on bride's parents, 

i. 261 
cards — after announce- 
ments, i. 225 
church or home? i. 266 
church service, i. 277, 278 
congratulations after cere- 
mony, i. 282 
clergyman's fee, i. 272 
dancing at, i. 290 
date chosen by bride, i. 242 
decorations at home, i, 291 
departure, 1. 285 
displaying gifts, i. 297 
exjjenses borne by bride's 

famil}', except certain 

fee, i. 242 
fees, i. 208 

fees paid by groom, i. 242 
floral decorations in 

church, i. 270 
gifts to bride; when a 

cheque is permissible, i. 

296 
groom, advice to, i. 298 
honeymoon, i. 287 



Weddings, house, i. 288 
invitations for second mar- 
riage, i. 254 
invitations, form, when 
issued, number, etc., i. 
243 
invitation lists, i. 242 
invitations, recalling, i. 257 
invitations, replying to, i. 

258 
invitations to reception, i. 

245 
invitations — train time 

specified, i. 253 
invitations, when they 
must be answered or ac- 
knowledged, i. 245 
kissing the bride, i. 283 
luncheon, i. 300 
maid of honor, i. 273 
marriage license, i. 267 
music at ceremony, i. 268 
music at the house, i. 284 
oificiating clergyman, i. 

267 
" open air," i. 290 
processional hymn, i. 276 
proper costume for women 

guests, i. 273 
punch, V. 112 
punctuality important, i. 

273 
reception or breakfast — 
forms of invitation, i. 250 
refreshments, i. 234 
refreshments, i. 285 
rehearsal, i. 292 
rice, slippers, i. 286 
seating guests in church, 

i. 271 
second marriage, i. 291 
selecting attendants, i. 263 
signing the register, i. 282 
souvenirs for bridesmaids, 

i. 265 
souvenirs for ushers, i. 265 
throwing bride's bouquet, 

i. 280 
time and place for, 1. 261 
ushers' duties, i. 274, 281 



292 



INDEX 



Weddings — ushers' gloves 
and tiee given l^ groom, 
i. 272 

wedding gifts, acknowledg- 
ment, etc., i. 295 

wedding ring, i. 279 

when to have luncheon or 
reception tea, i. 300 
Welsh rarebit, iv. 341 

rarebit, iv. 340 

rarebit, v. 10 

rarebit without ale, iv. 341 
West India couperee, v. 69 

punch, V. 113 
Wheat — varieties and quali- 
ties, ii. 229 

bread, whole, iv. 133 

cakes, iv. 167 
Wheatena gruel ii, 285 
Whey, iv. 268 
Whipped cream, iv. 306 
Whiskey — American, v. 171 

cobbler, v. 68 

cocktail, V. 56 

cocktail, improved, v. 57 

crusta, v. 61 

daisy, v. 61 

fix, V. 66 

fizz, V. 76 

flip (hot or cold), v. 82, 83 

julep, V. 64 

punches (hot and cold), v. 
91, 92 

Scotch, V. 170 

skin (Scotch or Irish), v, 
80, 81 

sling (hot and cold), v. 78 

smash, v. 65 

sour, V. 71 

toddy, 73 
White broths with vermi- 
celli, iv. 268 

lion, V. 70 

plush, V. 119 

sauce, iii. 193 

bean-/soup, iii. 73 

tigei a milk, v. 115 

wine negus, v. 125 

wine whey, v. 124 

whey, V. 124 



\Miitebait, dressed, iii. 101 
Whiting aux tines herbea 

(English), iii. 163 
Wiener schnitzel, iii. 280 
Wines — amontillado, v. 154 
analysis of, v. 132 
basto, V. 155 
blackberry, v. 41 
Bordeaux, v. 142 
brandy, v. 169 
champagne, the discovery 

of, V. 134 
champagne, the production 

of, V. 134 
cherry, v. 47 

classification of cham- 
pagne, V. 139 
composition of soleras, v. 

155 
cowslip, v, 43 
currant, v. 42 
dandelion, v. 48 
development and fine of 

wines, v. 154 
elderberry, v. 44 
forming the sparkle, v. 137 
Wineglasses — proper varie- 
ties for dinner, i, 30 
Wine, grape, v. 48 
Wines — Greece, wines of, the 
variety, v. 161, 162 
madeira wines of Portugal, 

V. 151 
May, V, 43 
rhubarb, v. 49 
may be omitted, or refused, 

at dinner, i. 28 
modern, v. 131 
modern, of Greece, v. 161 
Oloroso, V. 155 
origin and history, v. 126 
proi^er glasses for, at din- 
ner, i. 30 
proper temperatures, i, 30 
replenishing, v 156 
Rhine, v. 146 
Sauternes, v. 144 
story of the, v. 126 t 

table of, to be served wit%\ 
i. 3&. 



each dinner course, i. 






■^ 



INDEX 



293 



Wines — the cuvee, v. 136 
the disfji-orfjement, v. 138 
the liqiieuring, v. 138 
the mise sur pointe, v. 

136 
the vintage, v. 135 
to be served with various 

courses at dinner, i. 16 
of America, v. IVJ 
of France, v. 133 
of Germany, v. 146 
of Hungary, v. 149 
of Italy, v! 158 
of Portugal, v. 150 
of Spain, v. 153 
Wine-producing countries, v. 

131 



Winter squash, boiled, iv. 87 
Wives, ii. 301 

" Woman," toast to, v. 199 
" Women," toasts to, v. 196 
Woodcock, roast, iii. 322 

Yeast — nature and action of; 
home-made and manu- 
factured, ii. 232, 233 
ordinary, and brewers', ii. 
230 

Yorkshire pudding (to be 
eaten with roast beef), 
iii. 214 

Zakouski, Russian, iv. 252 
Zwieback, iv. 150 



,»in'. Sfa'. 






I 




i 



i0 



''fii^; 







^m. 



/■ 



i 



