vc 

313 




ESI 313 



NERAL MESS MANUAL 

AND 

COOKBOOK 

U. S. NAVY 



GENERAL MESS MANUAL 



COOKBOOK 



USE ON BOARD VESSELS OF THE UNITED STATES NAVY. 



PREPARED UNDER THE DIRECTION OF 

THE PAYMASTER GENERAL. 



PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY OF 

THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY. 



WASHINGTON: 
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 

1904. 



CONTENTS. 



PART I. THE GENERAL MESS. 

Page. 

Organization and administration 5 

The commissary 7 

The commissary stewards 8 

The cooks 9 

The bakers 10 

PART II. THE COMMISSARY STORE. 

Establishment and administration 11 

The commissary 13 

The storekeeper 13 

PART III. PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

The ration 15 

Thegalley 15 

Cooking 15 

Recipes _ __ _ 16 

(3) 



989765 



MESS MANUAL AND COOKBOOK. 



PART I. THE GENERAL MESS. 



ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION. 

1. The general messing system is, by the regulations, obliga- 
tory on board of all vessels of the Navy. The mess must include 
all enlisted men of the Navy and Marine Corps, except chief 
petty officers and officers' servants, and its members are to be 
divided into messes of about twenty men each, and as nearly as 
possible messed by divisions instead of by ratings, as has hereto- 
fore been the custom. By this method the petty officers will be 
scattered among the messes and there can be no complaint on 
account of discrimination all faring alike. 

2. A messman is to be detailed for each mess, and he is to 
receive the food from the cooks at the galley, serve it at the mess 
table, and is responsible for the care and the cleanliness of the 
mess gear and mess tables. 

3. The chief commissary steward, or commissary steward, the 
cooks and bakers, together with the storekeeper (when a store 
is established on the ship) , form the enlisted force of the com- 
missary department. They are the assistants of the pay officer 
and belong to the pay division. 

4. The responsibility of the commissary and his assistants 
ceases with the delivery of the food to the messmen at the galley. 

5. The established rate of pay being sufficient to secure the 
services of competent and experienced men, the payment of any 
gratuity, either by the commissary or by the men themselves, to 
any person employed in the service of the general mess is for- 
bidden by the regulations. 

6. The commanding officer should see that proper facilities, in- 
cluding such boats and men as may be necessary, are afforded the 
commissary for getting mess stores on board and stowing them. 



6 

", . Iu saculti "be thororghly understood that the general mess 
is not an organization managed by its members, as was the 
" berth-deck mess. " 

8. In addition to the pay provided for enlisted men, the Gov- 
ernment undertakes to subsist them, and this it does at whatever 
expense may be necessary. The fixed value of commutation for 
one ration is, by law, 30 cents, but the commutation of rations 
is a privilege, not a right, and the idea prevalent among enlisted 
men that they are entitled to receive just 30 cents' worth of food 
each day, or 30 cents in money, is erroneous. While the regula- 
tions limit commutation to one-fourth the total number of rations, 
they do not require any commutation at all, this being purely a 
question of desirability and business expediency to be decided by 
the pay officer with the approval of the commanding officer. 

9. Under the general messing system the Government subsists 
the men entirely, and they have no more voice in the management 
of the commissary department than in any other department of 
the ship. The Government, through its authorized officer, pro- 
vides them with the ration allowed by law. The food is pur- 
chased, cooked, and served entirely at the Government expense, 
and its value, whether it be more or less than 30 cents per diem 
per man, is a matter with which the men themselves have nothing 
to do. 

10. In case any man considers that he is improperly subsisted, 
he has the right, which all persons in the Navy have, to state 
his grievance at the proper time and place to his commanding 
officer, who should then cause the commissary to investigate the 
matter, and, if the complaint is well founded, to take steps to 
place the responsibility and to prevent a recurrence of the fault 
complained of. 

11. The men are entitled to the full benefit of the money and 
stores allowed for their subsistence, and no expenditure can be 
made from the general mess fund, except for the benefit of the 
mess; nor can any of this money, or these stores, be withheld 
(when they can be used to advantage) and allowed to accumu- 
late as a surplus. In cases, however, where a surplus of either 
money or stores does unavoidably exist when a ship is placed out 
of commission, the members of the mess have no claim whatever 
to any part of it and it reverts to the Government, the stores 
being taken up as a gain on issues and the money being credited 
to the appropriation " Provisions, Navy." 



12. Subsistence of enlisted men absent from the ship on duty 
will, when practicable, be furnished by the general mess. When 
men are landed in large numbers for an expedition or for going 
into camp with the expectation of being absent from the ship 
for more than twenty-four hours, the paymaster's clerk or the 
commissary steward, or both, according to the proportion of the 
ship's company landed and the importance of the expedition, to- 
gether with such cooks and bakers as may be necessary, and a 
sufficient number of messmen, should constitute the commissary 
corps. 

13. Special attention is invited to Articles 387, 391, 392, 753, 
and 1402, Navy Regulations, as amended by General Orders 68, 
.105, and 119. It will be noted that the board of audit is required 
to make its report to the commanding officer monthly and in 
writing; its recommendations being based upon facts adduced 
in the audit of the mess accounts, and confined to its financial 
feature alone. 

THE COMMISSARY. 

14. The pay officer of the ship, or, in ships having no pay officer, 
an officer designated by the captain, is the commissary, and is 
solely responsible for the purchase and preparation of the food 
for the general mess, the care of the stores, and the judicious 
expenditure of mess funds, keeping the accounts of the mess and 
administering all its affairs except the serving of the food at the 
mess table. 

15. His authority in the performance of these duties is com- 
mensurate with his responsibility, and all persons employed in 
the service of the general mess are subject to his orders. 

16. The commissary should frequently inspect the storerooms 
allotted to the general mess and see that the stores are properly 
stowed and that the rooms are dry and well ventilated. Any 
deterioration in the stores being a direct loss to the mess, great 
care should be exercised in their selection, and no greater quan- 
tity should be bought at one time than can be used within the 
period they may be expected to keep in good condition. 

17. The commissary should not permit any stores to be pur- 
chased until a list of them has been submitted to him and care- 
fully examined and approved. No stores should be received on 
board unless accompanied by a bill or memorandum by which 
they can be checked off; and before being stowed away all stores 



8 

should be carefully inspected by the commissary or the commis- 
sary steward. No bills should be contracted that can not be 
paid from the funds in hand or by the ration money that will 
accrue to the mess during the current month. All bills should 
be settled at the end of each month, and always before the ship 
sails from port. 

18. The commissary should keep the cash accounts of the mess 
so that they can be conveniently audited by the general inspector 
of the pay corps, the paymaster of the fleet, or by the board 
appointed for the purpose. All expenditures must be substan- 
tiated by vouchers, which are to be exhibited when the accounts 
are inspected. 

19. He should cause the commissary steward to keep a stock 
account which should embrace all stores and all property of the 
general mess. The value of the balance shown upon this stock 
account should be taken into consideration in making up the 
statement of the financial condition of the mess. 

20. The commissary should, when he deems it advisable, sub- 
mit written reports and recommendations to the captain regard- 
ing the general mess, and he must do so whenever the interests 
of the mess require any change which he himself is not author- 
ized to make. 

21. The commissary should mark the enlisted men of his de- 
partment in proficiency in rating and should immediately report 
any inefficiency or carelessness in their performance of duty. 

22. He should frequently inspect the food before it is delivered 
to the mess men at the galley, and in case he finds it improperly 
prepared, should take steps to prevent any further occurrence of 
the kind. If cooks are not thoroughly competent, they should 
be made to follow strictly the recipes in this book, and flagrant 
cases of incompetency should be reported. 

THE COMMISSARY STEWARDS. 

23. The chief commissary steward or commissary steward is 
the chief petty officer in charge, under the commissary, of the 
general mess. He is entitled to respect and obedience from all 
persons of inferior rating while in the performance of his duties, 

'and he is responsible for the proper execution of the orders 
of the commissary. The daily bill of fare should be made out by 
the commissary steward and submitted to the commissary, and 



9 

the necessary stores issued to the cooks at the galley. He should 
direct the manner of its preparation and shall be in charge of 
the galley and the men employed at it, and should frequently 
inspect the food before it is delivered to the messmen to be 
served. He should see that the galley and all the galley utensils 
are kept in proper condition, giving particular attention to their 
cleanliness. 

24. He should report to the commissary daily, in writing, all 
purchases made and debts contracted, and keep that officer 
advised of the needs of the mess. He is to draw from the pay 
department, at the appointed times, such Government stores as 
are due the mess, and must keep an account of these stores for 
the verification of the provision return at the end of each quarter. 
When fresh provisions are issued he should be on deck, when 
practicable, to receive them from the representative of the pay 
department as soon as they have been received on board and 
inspected. In case these fresh provisions, or any other stores issued 
to the mess by the pay department, are, in the opinion of the 
commissary steward, of inferior quality and unfit for issue, he 
should report the matter to the commissary, who shall make a 
personal investigation, and, in case he finds the objection well 
founded, should take the necessary steps to provide other stores, 
as prescribed by the regulations. An issuing book should be 
kept by the pay yeoman and signed daily by the commissary 
steward, in order that no question may arise at the end of the 
quarter as to the stores drawn by the general mess. The com- 
missary steward may, with the authority of the commissary, 
draw from the pay department such Government stores as are 
required in excess of the allowance, and these stores shall be paid 
for from the mess fund at the end of each month. 

THE COOKS. 

25. The senior cook, or, if there are two or more of the same 
rating, one selected by the commissary, should be in immediate 
charge of the galley and act in the capacity of head cook. He 
should be held strictly responsible for the cleanliness of the galley 
and the utensils pertaining to it, for the maintenance of dis- 
cipline among his assistants, for the proper preparation of the 
food, and for having the meals ready at the prescribed hours. 
He should personally superintend the cooking of all meals, and 



10 

should carefully inspect all food before it is delivered to the mess- 
men. It is his duty to report to the commissary any inefficiency 
or neglect on the part of his assistants; otherwise the entire 
blame for poor cooking or any other delinquency at the galley 
should rest upon him. The head cook should keep the commis- 
sary steward informed as to the requirements of the galley, and 
should from time to time prepare lists of articles required by him 
in his cooking, which are not included in the Navy ration. He 
is responsible for the galley utensils and will report immediately 
when they are lost or damaged. 

26. The other cooks should, as far as possible, be assigned 
specific duties at the galley in order that the responsibility for any 
neglect may readily be placed. One should be detailed as ; ' meat 
cook," another as "vegetable cook/' and one man should, in 
addition to other duties, be held responsible for the preparation 
of the coffee and tea. 

27. The cooks in the lower ratings should be detailed for start- 
ing fires, cleaning the galley and utensils (regular cleaning 
stations being assigned them) , and for preparing the food for 
cooking. 

28. The organization of the force at the galley should be as 
complete and efficient as that of a gun division. 

THE BAKERS. 

29. The commissary steward should issue to the baker such 
quantities of flour and other ingredients as may be necessary for 
making bread for the mess and keep him advised of the amount 
of bread required from day to day. 

30. The baker, or, in ships which are allowed two bakers, the 
baker first class, is to be held responsible for the proper baking 
of the bread and for its delivery to the messmen at the appointed 
times. He is also responsible for the condition of the bake ovens 
and the utensils used by him. 



PART II. THE COMMISSARY STORE. 



ESTABLISHMENT AND ADMINISTRATION. 

31. There being no public funds available for the establishment 
of a store on board ships of the Navy, such establishment is not 
made compulsory, but is left to the discretion of the commanding 
officer. The advantages of such a store are, however, so obvious 
and so great that provision is made in the regulations for its 
administration in ships where it exists, or may be established. 

32. The objects of a commissary store are: 

(1) To enable the men to purchase a better quality of 

the articles usually obtained from bumboat men, 
and at a lower price. 

(2) To return directly to the men all profits from their 

purchases not needed for carrying on the business. 

(3) To bring under official control the sale of all mer- 

chandise on board ship, and thus do away with 
bumboat men and peddlers, and reduce the chances 
of liquor or other unauthorized articles being 
brought on board. The sale of any merchandise 
on board ship, except by the store, should be pro- 
hibited as far as practicable . Tailors , persons doing 
repairing, and those selling special articles which 
can not conveniently be handled by the store, may 
be exempt from this prohibition, but dealers in 
milk, pies, fruit, and such articles should not be 
allowed to sell to the men. 

33. The commissary should make agreement with reliable 
merchants to supply to the store, while the ship is in port, such 
stores as are salable but can not be carried in stock, and these 
articles should be delivered to the storekeeper and by him sold 
to the men at a very small advance. For example, if it be thought 
advisable to have milk for sale in the store when the ship is in 
port, the commissary should arrange with a dealer to place on 

(11) 



12 

board, at a specified time each day, a quantity of milk at a fixed 
price, such quantity as may be sold to be paid for, and the balance 
to be taken away by the dealer. 

34. The stock being purchased from reliable firms at whole- 
sale prices, will be better in quality and lower in price than that 
usually carried by bumboats or itinerant merchants. The 
greater part of the retail dealer's profit should revert directly to 
the purchaser at the time he buys the article that is, the price 
charged should be very little, if any, above the wholesale price. 
Such small profits as may from time to time accrue shall be 
expended by the pay officer in such manner as the commanding 
officer deems most conducive to the pleasure and comfort of the 
enlisted men. No part of these profits, however, is under any 
circumstances to be transferred to the general mess for the pur- 
pose of supplementing the authorized ration. 

35. In ships where the men desire to subscribe for the original 
stock of a commissary store, and the commanding officer author- 
izes its establishment, the commissary is, by the regulations, 
placed in charge of it. This officer is to receive voluntary sub 
scriptions from the crew, giving them receipts (stated to be 
not negotiable) for the amount subscribed, with the agreement 
that these receipts may be surrendered and the amount of the 
subscription refunded after the original stock has been paid for 
and the business is on a good financial basis. The original sub- 
scribers, after they have been paid the amount of their subscrip- 
tions, have no further claim upon, nor interest in, the store. 

36. During this period it is advisable to make the prices 
correspond with those of retail dealers in order that the store 
may be independent as soon as possible, but when all indebted- 
ness has been discharged and the store is self-supporting, the 
profits should be reduced to a minimum, it being always borne 
in mind that making money is not one of the objects of the store. 
The injustice of making profits from sales to one set of men to 
be divided among another set at the expiration of a cruise is 
manifest, and for this reason the regulations provide that such 
profits be used to improve the bill of fare of the general mess, 
but with the present ample ration no addition to the mess fund 
should be necessary; and by reduction in prices from time to 
time, as experience dictates, the monthly surplus should be 
reduced to a minimum, thus disposing of the regular retail 
dealer's profit in the most equitable manner possible, i. e.. by 



13 

giving the benefit of it to each purchaser in the form of ;i dis- 
count. 

37. It is impracticable to operate a store unless a suitable room, 
used for no other purpose and to which only the storekeeper has 
access, is available for the purpose. 

THE COMMISSARY. 

38. The commissary of the ship has charge of the ship's store. 
He is allowed the services of a yeoman for duty as storekeeper. 
The commissary should give his personal attention to the pur- 
chase of stock for the store, should fix the prices at which the 
articles are sold, establish a businesslike system for the operation 
of the store, and direct all its affairs. He shall keep the cash 
account and cause the storeman to turn in daily all money not 
required for making change. 

39. All the accounts of the commissary store should be kept in 
such manner as to admit of ready inspection by the general in- 
spector of the pay corps, the paymaster of the fleet, or by the 
board appointed for that purpose. 

THE STOREKEEPER. 

40. The storekeeper should be responsible to the commissary 
for the proper conduct of the store. 

He is to keep the account of the stock, and of the sales, and 
submit to the commissary from time to time lists of articles 
required. 

41. In order to protect the store from any loss, either through 
carelessness or dishonesty, the following method of keeping the 
accounts should be employed: 

At the end of each month an account of stock should be taken, 
and the articles found to be on hand entered in a book similar to 
the return of clothing and small stores. (This blank may conven- 
iently be used for the purpose, the headings of the columns being 
changed.) These quantities represent the stock on hand at the 
beginning of the new month and to them should be added all 
stores received from purchase. At the end of the month the 
quantities found to be on hand should be entered in the proper 
line and subtracted from the total receipts and the difference 
entered as "sales." By multiplying the number of each article 
sold by its selling price and taking the total of that line in the 



14 

return will be found the amount which the storekeeper should 
have received, and this amount he should be required to turn in 
or account for. 

42. If no prices are changed except at the beginning of a month, 
and if the established prices are displayed on the store bulletin 
board so that no overcharges can be made, this system will be 
a simple and absolute check on the storekeeper. 

43. The man selected for this responsible duty should first of 
all be entirely trustworthy. He must be quick and accurate at 
figures and write legibly. It is his duty to receive such stock as 
may be delivered for the store, conveniently arrange it in the 
storeroom, and keep the latter clean and see that it is ready for 
inspection at the appointed times. He is to open the store for 
the sale of merchandise to the men at such times as may be ap- 
pointed by the commissary, with the authority of the captain. 

He should keep a small memorandum book in which to enter 
the amounts turned in daily to the commissary, and when that 
officer receives the money, he should initial the amount in the 
book. 



PART III. THE PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



THE RATION. 

44. The dietary of the enlisted men of the Navy must neces- 
sarily be based upon the ration provided by law. In general 
messes, where the circumstances are favorable, provisions which 
are not a part of the ration may at times be purchased, but arti- 
cles of which there is a supply already on board in the pay 
department should not be bought unless the Government stores 
shall have deteriorated, in which case they should be surveyed 
and a new stock obtained at the first opportunity. 

45. Unless there be some good reason for not doing so, the 
official issuing table should be strictly adhered to, it having been 
arranged to give the necessary variety. 

THE GALLEY. 

46. The ship's galley (or that part of it used by the general 
mess), together with its appurtenances, is under the charge of 
the commissary. That officer should see that the galley and its 
utensils are properly cared for and are ready for inspection at 
the appointed times. He should himself frequently inspect this 
part of his department and advise the equipment officer of any 
repairs or alterations needed, and should, when occasion demands 
it, furnish that officer with a list of galley utensils requiring a 
survey. 

COOKING. 

47. On board ship, where the facilities are necessarily restricted 
and the food lacking in variety compared to that obtainable on 
shore, it is of the highest importance that the very best results 
possible under the circumstances should be obtained. With a 
liberal allowance of cooks and bakers, and a judicious selection 
of the men for these rates, the Navy ration should be so pre- 
pared as to give the enlisted men three nourishing and palatable 

(15) 



16 

meals each day, and it should be the duty of the commissary 
department to see that this is done. 

Frequent inspections of the food by the commissary and the 
commissary steward, and efficiency on the part of the cooks, 
alone can insure this. 



RECIPES. 

NOTE. The following recipes have been deduced from a series 
of experiments made with articles of the Navy ration. Only 
such as can be easily followed with the usual facilities found on 
board ship are given. Where time and space will permit more 
elaborate dishes may be prepared, but it is here the aim to aid 
inexperienced cooks in the proper preparation of the slores sup- 
plied by the Government. 

The quantities of the ingredients given in all recipes are those 
required for one hundred men. 

SOUPS. 

BEAN SOUP WITH SALT PORK. 

Soak 5 gallons of beans in fresh water and 80 pounds of salt 
pork in fresh or salt water overnight. Put the beans in a cop- 
per and let them come to a boil, then add 15 pounds of the pork. 
Continue boiling until the pork is tender, then remove. In a 
separate copper boil the rest of the pork until tender. When 
bean soup is done, season with pepper. Cut up 6 pounds of stale 
bread, brown it on a pan in the oven and add to the soup, stirring 
it in. 

(NOTE. One gallon of the stock from the copper in which pork 
is boiled may be added to the soup. ) 

BEEF SOUP. 

Use 90 pounds of soup meat (as much bone as possible) ; let 
simmer for two hours, then remove meat and add vegetables as 
follows : One quart of barley, 6 pounds of carrots, 3 pounds of 
onions, 2 pounds of turnips (the vegetables having been cleaned 
and cut in strips), and allow the soup to boil for one hour. 
Season with pepper, salt, cloves and spices ; mix flour and water 



17 

to the consistency of a sirup and stir in, while the soup is boiling, 
a sufficient quantity to thicken it. After boiling for ten minutes 
longer the soup is ready to serve. After the beef is removed it 
should be kept hot until served. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Add to the stock obtained from the last recipe 5 pounds of car- 
rots, 3 pounds of turnips, 2 heads of cabbage, 1 pounds of sugar, 
6 pounds of rice or barley, and 6 pounds of tomatoes. Season 
with pepper and salt and boil for forty-five minutes. All fatty 
substances should be skimmed from the stock before adding the 
vegetables. 

MACARONI SOUP. 

Break into small pieces 10 pounds of macaroni and drop into 
boiling water seasoned with salt. Leave on the fire for thirty 
minutes or until tender. Chop up 4 pounds of onions and 7 pounds 
of tomatoes ; add to the stock obtained from the recipe for beef 
soup, and boil for one hour. Drain the macaroni and add it to 
the soup. Thicken with flour prepared as for beef soup, boil ten 
minutes and serve. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Into 12$ gallons of water put the following ingredients: 
Twenty-five pounds of tomatoes mashed through a colander, 4 
pounds of hashed raw onions, 5 pounds of rice which has been 
boiled twenty minutes, f ounce of allspice, and ounce of cloves. 
Boil for one hour and then thicken with flour and season with 
pepper and salt. 

(NOTE. This soup may be improved by the addition of 15 or 
20 pounds of meat bones. ) 

FISH. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

Cut up 10 pounds of salt pork in 1-inch cakes and render out in 
frying pan until brown. Cut 50 pounds of potatoes and 20 
pounds of onions in small pieces and place them with the pork 
in 12 gallons of water. Boil 30 pounds of fresh cod or halibut 
until tender, let it cool, remove all bones and add to the above 



18 

Season with salt and pepper, add 1 gallon of milk, if obtainable, 
and boil for ten minutes. 

(NOTE. The potatoes for chowder may be prepared the night 
before and kept in fresh water. ) 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

Cut up 10 pounds of salt x>ork in 1-inch cakes and render out 
in frying pan until brown. Cut 50 pounds of potatoes and 25 
pounds of onions in small pieces and place them with the pork 
in 12 gallons of water, and allow them to boil three-quarters of 
an hour. Cut 2 gallons of clams in small pieces and add them 
to the above with their juice and 4 gallons of tomatoes. Season 
with pepper, salt, and mace, and let the whole boil for fifteen 
minutes, then add 15 pounds of broken biscuits. 

FRIED FISH. 

Large fish, such as cod, halibut, or haddock, are the only ones 
suitable for use on board ship. Cut 80 pounds of fish in steaks i 
inch thick, wash thoroughly, and dry. Beat well 3 eggs and add 
2 quarts of water and a tablespoonful of salt, stirring together. 
Dip each piece of fish into the batter thus made and then into 
Indian meal or cracker dust. Place a pan of drippings, butter, 
or lard on the fire and let it come to the boiling point. Fry the 
fish in this from eight to ten minutes, turning after the first 
three minutes. 

BAKED FISH. 

Soak 10 pounds of stale bread in cold water, and when soft 
press all the water out. Season with pepper, salt, and thyme, 
and spread in a thin layer on the bottom of well -greased baking 
pans. Clean and wipe dry 75 pounds of fish, place in the pans 
and dredge with flour, pepper, and salt, adding a small quantity 
of tomatoes or tomato juice. Place in a moderately hot oven 
for about forty-five minutes, or until done. 

BOILED FISH. 

Place 75 pounds of fish in cold water, adding plenty of salt and 
1 pint of vinegar. Place on the fire in pans or fish kettles and 
allow to simmer until tender. Take out fish when cooked. 
Make sauce with 2 quarts of water and 1 quart of milk. Put on 



19 

fire until it boils. Thicken with cornstarch or flour ; chop a 
bunch of parsley with pepper and stir into the sauce. Pour over 
fish and serve. 

(NOTE. This sauce is suitable for all boiled and baked fish.) 

FISH CAKES. 

Soak 25 pounds of codfish over night in fresh water. Boil for 
an hour and a quarter, drain off water, remove bones, and chop 
up. Boil 50 pounds of potatoes, and to them add the fish, 
together with 1 pound of butter, 6 eggs, and 1 ounce of pepper. 
Mash all together thoroughly, make into cakes, and place in 
pans in the oven to brown. 

(NOTE. Fish cakes may be fried in the manner described for 
frying fish. ) 

MEATS. 

FRESH ROAST BEEF. 

Take 90 pounds of ribs, wipe with a towel soaked in salt water, 
dry thoroughly and place in pans, adding 3 onions and 3 carrots 
sliced up. Dredge the meat with pepper, salt, and flour, using 
the flour liberally. Place pans in the oven, and after thirty 
minutes baste with 2 quarts of boiling water. Bake for an hour 
and a half, watching meat carefully, and keeping plenty of 
water in the pans with which to baste. When cooked, remove 
from the oven, stir a little more flour into the essence of the 
meat, add 2 more quarts of boiling water, let it simmer for five 
minutes in the oven or on top of the galley, carve meat and 
serve with the gravy. 

(NOTE. Top sirloin or cross ribs can also be roasted.) 

BEEFSTEAK. 

Cut up 75 pounds of steak in 8-ounce pieces, season with 
pepper and salt, place in the oven or on the galley, in pans ; fry 
for ten minutes, then serve. 

(NOTE. It is seldom possible to broil beefsteak for a large 
number of men on board ship. ) 

POT ROAST. 

Place 75 pounds of lean beef in pots with 2 pounds of beef 
dripping. Cut up 1 quart of onions, 6 carrots, and 6 bay leaves, 



20 

and add them to the beef. Place the pots on the galley, 
and allow them to simmer for twenty minutes. Turn the meat 
frequently, taking care that it does not stick to the bottom of 
the pots. Throw in 1 quart of dry flour, and season well with 
pepper and salt, stirring thoroughly ; then add 2 quarts of boil- 
ing water, continually stirring, and allow it to simmer for 
twenty minutes longer. Then cover the whole with boiling 
water, let cook until tender, and serve. 

BEEF STEW. 

Wash 60 pounds of beef in water to which a little vinegar and 
salt has been added, and then cut into small pieces. Place in the 
copper with 10 gallons of water and boil for one hour. Slice up 
40 pounds of potatoes, 10 pounds of carrots, and 15 pounds of 
onions (the potatoes and onions being cut in quarters) and add 
to the above. Allow the whole to boil until the vegetables are 
done and then add 10 pounds of tomatoes. Season with pepper 
and salt and allow it to simmer for twenty minutes. 

MUTTON STEW. 

Wash 75 pounds of mutton in water to which vinegar and salt 
have been added, and cut up in pieces of suitable size. Place the 
meat in the copper with 10 gallons of water and allow it to boil 
for one hour. Cut 40 pounds of potatoes and 15 pounds of onions 
in quarters, 6 pounds of turnips, and 10 pounds of carrots in 
slices and add to the above, letting all cook for forty minutes. 
Add flour thickening, season with pepper and salt, and add four 
cans of green pease free from liquid. Allow stew to simmer for 
twenty minutes and serve. 

ROAST LAMB. 

Use 90 pounds of lamb. Wipe thoroughly with towel soaked 
in salt water and place in dry pans, adding three sliced onions 
and three sliced carrots. Dredge with pepper, salt, and flour, 
using the latter liberally. Roast in closed oven for thirty min- 
utes, then baste with boiling water, and cook for one hour and a 
half, watching the meat carefully and seeing that there is plenty 
of water in the pan with which to baste it. Upon removing the 
meat when done, stir into the gravy a little more flour, add 2 



21 

quarts of boiling water, and let it simmer for five minutes in the 
oven or on top of the galley. 

ROAST VEAL. 

Prepare 80 pounds of veal in the manner prescribed for roast 
beet. Veal should be frequently turned over and basted and 
should be thoroughly cooked before serving. A stuffing which 
may be used for veal, chickens, or turkeys may be made as 
follows : 

Soak 15 pounds of stale bread in cold water and drain thor- 
oughly; add 3 pounds of sliced onions, fried until brown, and 
pepper, salt, and thyme ; mix all thoroughly and brown in the 
oven. 

(NOTE. Roast pork should be prepared in the same manner as 
roast veal, care being taken that it is thoroughly cooked. 
Quantity, 100 pounds.) 

MUTTON, VEAL, AND PORK CHOPS. 

Place 75 pounds of chops in pans, dredge well with flour, sea- 
son with salt and pepper and fry on the galley for 10 minutes. 
Then half cover the meat with boiling water and cook for ten 
minutes longer. 

PORK SAUSAGE. 

Soak 10 pounds of stale bread in cold water and drain. Add 
to this 2 pounds of onions, chopped fine and fried in pan until 
light brown, together with salt, pepper, and thyme; mix thor- 
oughly and spread on pans. In these pans place 65 pounds of 
sausage and bake for thirty minutes. 

FRANKFURTERS AND SAUERKRAUT. 

Boil 60 pounds of frankfurters for 15 minutes. Wash 7 gal- 
lons of sauerkraut in cold water and place in covered pot with 
1 gallon of water, adding 2 pounds of dried apples and 1 pound 
of beef dripping. Boil for thirty minutes and season with 
pepper. 

ROAST TURKEY, CHICKEN, GEESE, AND DUCKS. 

Ninety pounds of fowl will be required. In dressing be care- 
ful not to break the gall. Wash thoroughly inside and out in 



22 

salt water and dry. Season well inside with salt and pepper and 
fill the cavity with the stuffing prescribed for roast veal in the 
case of turkey and chicken, and for geese and ducks the one 
given below. Place in dry pans, dredging well with flour, and 
roast for twenty minutes. Then baste frequently with hot 
water, turning them twice, and allow them to roast two hours 
and a half. 

Gravy is made as follows : Take the hearts, livers, and gizzards, 
wash them off thoroughly and place them in 2 quarts of cold 
water. Chop 1 pound of onions and place the whole together on 
a fire in a saucepan ; cook for one hour, take out hearts, livers, 
and gizzards, saving the juice. Chop up the giblets fine, placing 
them back in the juice, and add the gravy from the pans to it. 
Season with pepper and salt. 

STUFFING FOR GEESE AND DUCKS. 

Cook 7 pounds of dried apples thirty minutes in enough water 
to cover them. Put 18 pounds of stale bread to soak, squeeze the 
water out of the bread, add the apples to it, mix together thor- 
oughly and season with pepper and salt, 

TURKEY OR CHICKEN FRICASSEE. 

Draw and wash 75 pounds of turkeys or chickens thoroughly, 
cut up and place in the copper, covering them well with water. 
When the water commences to boil skiin with a dipper. Add 6 
quarts of onions chopped fine, and allow the whole to boil for an 
hour and a half. Season with pepper and salt, add six bunches 
of parsely chopped fine and simmer for twenty minutes. 

BOILED BACON (OR PORK) WITH CABBAGE. 

Clean and cut in quarters 25 heads of cabbage and put in cold 
water to soak. Place 75 pounds of bacon in the copper (rind 
up) and allow it to cook for an hour and a half, then add the 
cabbage and allow the whole to cook for an hour and a half 
longer. Then remove the bacon, and the cabbage as soon as it 
is tender. 

(NOTE. One teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda added to any 
boiled vegetables will make them more tender. ) 



23 

LIVER AND BACON. 

The skin having been removed from 45 pounds of liver, cut it 
in i-inch slices and place it in a pan. Chop up 1 pound of onions 
and 1 bunch of parsley and brown them on the fire in i of a 
pound of dripping. Sprinkle 1 tablespoonful of this over the 
liver, dredging well with flour. Slice 25 pounds bacon and place 
on top of the liver. Put in a hot oven for ten minutes, then 
cover well with boiling water, season with salt and pepper, and 
leave in the oven for twenty minutes. 

KIDNEY STEW. 

Cut 50 pounds of kidney into small pieces and place them in 
pots filled w T ith cold water on the galley. Bring to the boiling 
point, remove the kidney, place in a colander and pour cold 
water over it, washing it thoroughly. Place the kidneys in the 
copper well covered with hot water. Add 15 pounds of onions, 
season with pepper and salt, and boil for an hour. Cut into 
small pieces 40 pounds of potatoes and 6 pounds of carrots and 
add them to the stew. Then boil for thirty minutes, add flour 
thickening, and simmer for ten minutes. 

SALT BEEF. 

Soak 80 pounds of beef in fresh or salt water overnight. Place 
in cold water in the copper. Boil for one hour, then draw off 
water and fill copper again with boiling water. Allow beef to 
boil until tender and serve with boiled carrots, turnips, and 
onions. 

TINNED ROAST BEEF WITH MACARONI. 

Place 2 pounds of onions, chopped fine, in a pot with | pound 
of dripping and brown them on the galley. Stir in 1 pound of 
flour and then 2 quarts of boiling water. Add 6 pounds of toma- 
toes and 60 pounds of tinned beef. Add to this 6 pounds of 
macaroni which has been dropped into boiling water, well 
salted, and cooked until tender. Season with pepper and salt 
and simmer for twenty minutes. 

(NOTE. To prepare this dish in the coppers, proceed as fol- 
lows : After the flour, onions, tomatoes, and boiling water have 
simmered for ten minutes in a pot add them to the meat 



24 

and the macaroni in the copper. Season and simmer for twenty 
minutes. ) 

BEEF A LA MODE (MADE FROM CANNED ROAST BEEF). 

Place 60 pounds of beef in pans on the galley. Add 20 pounds 
of canned tomatoes and season with salt, pepper, and vinegar. 

Cut 5 pounds of onions in thin slices and fry with gravy of 
beef in frying pan, adding flour to thicken. Pour over meat, 
adding water if too thick and allow the whole to simmer for 
about fifteen minutes. Serve very hot with boiled potatoes. 

(NOTE. This meal can be prepared in about forty minutes.) 

HAMBURGER STEAK. 

Take 40 pounds of chopped beef and 5 pounds of chopped pork, 
place in pan, mix well ; add 5 pounds of stale soaked bread or 5 
pounds of cracked roasted bread, 5 pounds of chopped onions ; 
season well with pepper and salt and mix well. Form into cakes. 
Place in pan and bake for thirty minutes. Turn once during 
baking. 

Add 1 gallon of water to pans after frying steak and strain. 
Boil five minutes, season with pepper, salt, and catsup, and thicken 
with flour. Pour over hamburger steak when served. 

SMOKED SHOULDER OF PORK. 

Ninety pounds required. Cut stringer. Place in copper and 
boil for one hour. Drain off and renew water and continue 
boiling until tender. Boil about three and one-half hours alto- 
gether. If large, the shoulder should boil about four and one- 
half hours moderately. 

MADE TO SERVE COLD. Boil shoulder the same as above. 
Remove rind, place in pan, and dredge well with sugar. Put 
about 30 cloves into fat about 1 inch apart. Bake from thirty 
to forty minutes in moderately hot oven and serve cold. 

TINNED MUTTON STEW. 

Cut in quarters 4 pounds of turnips, 10 pounds of carrots, and 
20 pounds of potatoes, and slice up 6 pounds of onions and place 
them all in the copper with sufficient water to cover them. Add 
6 pounds of tomatoes and allow all to boil for twenty minutes. 



25 

Season with pepper. Add 50 pounds of canned mutton and 
allow to simmer for twenty minutes. 

TINNED MUTTON POTPIE. 

Prepare as directed for stew and add dough made as follows : 
Place a pot of boiling water on the galley and add 4 ounces of 
salt. Mix 10 pounds of flour with 10 tablespoonfuls of baking 
powder and 1 tablespoonful of salt. Mix with cold water and 
make a thin paste. Roll this up into small cakes, drop into 
boiling water, and when cooked add to the stew. 

TINNED BEEF (OR MUTTON) PIE. 

Slice up 5 pounds of onions and fry until brown. Place 20 
pounds of sliced potatoes in a pot with enough water to cover 
them. When the potatoes have boiled for fifteen minutes add 
the onions and 50 pounds of tinned meat. Allow the whole to 
simmer for twenty minutes, and season with pepper and salt. 
To prepare a crust, put 20 pounds of flour through a sieve, add 
2 tablespoonfuls of salt. Rub in 6 pounds of dripping or lard 
thoroughly. Wet the whole with sufficient cold water to make 
a stiff paste and work it all together. Flour the board or table, 
turn out the paste and work it up. Roll it out, sprinkle with 
flour, and roll to of an inch thickness. Place the pile in bak- 
ing pans and cover with this crust, making a hole in the crust 
of each pan. Bake in the oven for about twenty minutes, or 
until the crust is brown. 

TINNED CANNED BEEF, POTTED. 

Slice up 10 pounds of onions and place in a pot with 2 pounds 
of dripping and allow them to brown, lightly stirring in 2 pounds 
of flour and then adding a gallon of boiling water, which should 
be stirred into the flour briskly while boiling. Cut 50 pounds of 
canned beef into small slices and 30 pounds of boiled potatoes 
into thin slices and place in the pots. Season with salt and pep- 
per and allow to simmer for thirty minutes. 

TINNED HAM OR SAUSAGE CROQUETTES. 

Put 25 pounds of ham, 70 pounds of boiled potatoes, and 6 
pounds of onions through a hash machine, season with pepper 



only, and mold into cakes. Beat together 2 pounds of butter 
and 12 eggs to a batter and cover the cakes with it. Put the 
cakes in greased pans in the oven or on the galley and bake or 
fry until brown. Serve with stewed tomatoes or tomato sauce. 
(NOTE. Lard may be substituted for the egg dressing. This 
meal can be prepared in two hours. ) 

STEAMED CORNED BEEP HASH. 

Hash together 40 pounds corned beef and 30 pounds of peeled 
potatoes. Cut up fine 10 pounds of onions and brown them in 
2 pounds of dripping in pots on the galley. Add the hash and 4 
quarts of boiling water. Season with salt and pepper and allow 
the whole to cook for twenty minutes. 

BAKED CORN BEEF HASH. 

Chop together 40 pounds of corned beef, 30 pounds of boiled 
potatoes (cold), and 10 pounds of onions. Season with pepper 
and salt and bake in the oven for twenty minutes, or until 
brown. 

(NOTE. This hash is improved by adding a little dripping to 
the top of each panful before baking. ) 

BAKED TINNED SAUSAGE MEAT. 

Mix together 60 pounds of sausage meat, 20 pounds of stale 
bread which has been soaked in cold water, drained dry, and 
well seasoned with salt and pepper, 1 ounce of thyme, and - tea- 
spoonful of mace. Make into 10-pound rolls and bake in well- 
greased pans in the oven for thirty minutes. 

TINNED HAM, MINCED. 

Cut 2 pounds of salt pork in small pieces, place in frying pans, 
and allow it to brown. To this add 6 pounds of onions cut up 
fine, which should also be browned lightly. Chop fine 60 pounds 
of ham and to it add 10 pounds of stale bread which has been 
soaked in cold water and drained dry. Mix all the ingredients 
together, season with pepper only, and bake in the oven in 
greased pans for twenty minutes. 



27 

BAKED PORK AND BEANS. 

"Wash thoroughly 5 gallons of beans and soak in cold water 
overnight. In another pot soak 15 x^ounds of salt pork over 
night. Place the pork and beans together in pots on the fire 
(scoring the pork). Add water, and boil with pot covered for 
one hour. Season with salt and pepper. When the beans are 
soft add 2 pints of molasses, turn out into pans, and bake in a 
quick oven until brown. 

HAM AND EGGS. 

Take 25 pounds of ham and 17 dozen of eggs. Cut ham in thin 
slices and quarter them. Put into boiling water and simmer for 
five minutes. Drain off water. Fry the ham and put aside to 
keep warm. Take a large bake pan and cover the bottom with 
lard. Break each egg in a cup first to ascertain if it is fresh, 
then fry in pan. 

BACON AND EGGS (SCRAMBLED). 

Cut 25 pounds of bacon in thin slices and place in large baking 
pan. Fry in oven about twenty minutes, turning over occasion- 
ally. When done remove from pan and keep warm until ready 
to serve. 

Take 17 dozen of eggs. Break each egg separately in a cup 
and then put in a large pan, adding two quarts of milk. Season 
with pepper and salt and beat well. Pour into well-greased 
pans and cook on moderately hot fire, stirring continually until 
done. Remove from pan and serve together with bacon. 

HAM OMELET. 

Fifteen pounds of ham and 22 dozen of eggs will be required. 
Chop ham fine. Put eggs, one at a time, in a large pan. Season 
with pepper. Beat eggs at least twenty minutes. Take large 
narrow baking pans and cover bottom with lard. When lard is 
hot, pour about 2 do^en well-beaten eggs into each pan. Remove 
from the bottom of pan occasionally. When eggs are set, put a 
quantity of chopped ham along the center and fold the sides over 
the center. 



28 

VEGETABLES. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Sixty pounds of potatoes will be required. Wash thoroughly ; 
place in copper in cold water and boil for thirty-five minutes. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Boil as above 80 pounds of potatoes, take them out of the 
water, mash them in a pan, adding 1 pound of butter, and salt to 
the taste. Boil 1 quart of milk and 1 quart of water together 
and stir into the potatoes. 

CABBAGE. 

Cut two barrels of cabbage into quarters, wash thoroughly 
and put into cold water in the copper and boil for one hour. 
Season well with pepper and salt. 

SPINACH AND SPROUTS. 

Wash 2 barrels of spinach thoroughly in water three times. 
Place in cold water in the copper, cook for forty-five minutes, 
then drain off water and season with butter, salt, and pepper. 

GREEN CORN. 

Put about 150 ears of corn into boiling water in the copper, 
well salted. Cook for thirty minutes. 

TINNED CORN. 

Pour the contents of thirty 1 -pound tins of corn into a pot or 
copper. Add 1 quart of milk and pound of butter. Pepper 
and salt to taste and cook for twenty minutes. 

TINNED GREEN PEASE. 

Strain off the juice from thirty tins of pease; place them in 
cold water, in a pot or copper ; season well with butter, salt, and 
pepper, and cook for twenty minutes. The juice should not be 
used. 

BAKED MACARONI. 

Place into a copper containing 10 gallons of boiling water of 
a pound of salt. Break 50 pounds of macaroni into the copper 
and allow it to boil for thirty minutes. Strain off and place 



29 

in well -greased pans ; grate 10 pounds of cheese on top of the 
macaroni and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. 

(NOTE. 6 pounds of tomatoes may be added before baking, if 
desired. ) 

TINNED CORN FRITTERS. 

Sift into a dish 10 pounds of flour, 5 ounces of baking powder, 
and pound of sugar, mix with cold water to a smooth batter 
and add 15 pounds of tinned corn, mixing all together. Place 
dripping in pans on the fire and when it is smoking hot, drop in 
the batter by large spoonfuls and fry, turning as soon as one 
side is brown. After frying bake in oven for ten minutes. 

(NOTE. The addition of a dozen eggs, when obtainable, will 
improve these fritters. ) 

POTATO SALAD. 

Peel and slice 30 pounds of boiled potatoes, to which add 6 
pounds of onions and 2 bunches of parsley, chopped up fine, mix 
all together with pepper and salt. Stir in 2 quarts of vinegar 
and 1 pint of oil and allow the salad to stand for an hour before 
serving. 

CORNED-BEEF SALAD. 

Cut 40 pounds of corned beef into small cubes. Chop up fine 
5 pounds of onions and 5 pounds of pickles ; add pepper and salt 
to taste. Stir in 1 quart of oil and 3 tablespoonfuls of mustard, 
then add 2 quarts of vinegar and mix all the ingredients together. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

In a pot on the galley place 25 pounds of tomatoes, 3 pounds of 
onions hashed fine, | ounce of cloves and 6 bay leaves. Season 
with pepper and salt, add 1 gallon of boiling water and allow it 
to boil for twenty minutes. Then put the whole through a 
colander, pouring the juice in a pot on the fire, stir in flour 
thickening while boiling, and let simmer for ten minutes. 

BOILED OATMEAL. 

Into pots of boiling water to which 1 pound of butter and 2 
pounds of sugar have been added stir 40 pounds of oatmeal and 
boil two hours, stirring occasionally. 

(NOTE. When the oats are crushed or cracked boil for twenty 
minutes only. ) 



30 

STEWED DRIED APPLES. 

Soak 12 pounds of dried apples over night in cold water. Drain 
off and place in a pot on the fire, covering them with cold water. 
Allow them to boil for thirty minutes and then add 5 pounds of 
sugar, J ounce of cinnamon, and a tablespoonful of salt. Sim- 
mer for ten minutes and serve. 

APPLE SAUCE. 

Place 15 pounds of apples in a pot with sufficient water to cover 
them and cook on a slow fire till tender. Add 3 pounds of sugar, 
2-4 tablespoonfuls of salt, and 2 teaspoonf uls of ground cinnamon. 
Mix thoroughly and force through a colander until a smooth 
sauce is obtained. 

STEWED DRIED PEACHES. 

Soak 12 pounds of dried peaches overnight in cold water, drain 
off and place in pot on the galley, cover with cold water and boil 
for forty minutes. Add 5 pounds of sugar and 1 teaspoonful of 
salt and simmer for ten minutes. 

STEWED PRUNES. 

Place 16 pounds of prunes in cold water in a pot on the galley. 
Add 2 lemons sliced, and allow it to boil for twenty minutes. 
Then add 4 pounds of sugar and simmer for twenty minutes 
longer. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Soak 25 pounds of stale bread in cold water and drain. Add 8 
pounds of raisins which have been thoroughly washed, 6 cans of 
condensed milk (or 10 quarts of fresh milk) in which two table- 
spoonfuls of salt have been dissolved ; mix all together ; place in 
greased pans ; dredge the top of the pudding with cinnamon, and 
bake until brown. 

RICE PUDDING. 

Wash 30 pounds of rice and place in pots of cold water on the 
galley, letting it boil for thirty minutes. In six cans of con- 
densed milk or 10 quarts of fresh milk dissolve 6 pounds of sugar 
and 2 tablespoonfuls of salt. When the rice is soft, add the 



31 

milk and 6 pounds of currants, 6 pounds of raisins, and 4 dozen 
eggs, and mix all together. Place the pudding in greased pans, 
grate nutmeg over them, and bake in oven until brown. 

(NOTE. In this and the preceding recipe, when condensed 
niilk is used, it should be diluted to the consistency of rich fresh 
milk.) 

BAKED APPLES. 

Core the apples and place them in pans in the oven until soft. 
Dissolve 5 pounds of sugar in 3 quarts of boiling water, add 1 
teaspoonful of cinnamon and 1 teaspoonf ul of salt, and allow it 
to boil for ten minutes. When the apples are cooked pour this 
sirup over them. 

PLUM DUFF. 

Soak 25 pounds of stale bread in cold water and drain dry. 
Add 25 pounds of sifted flour, 5 pounds of suet chopped fine, 3 
pounds of raisins, 5 pounds of sugar, 4. pounds of currants, 2 
pounds of prunes, 3 tablespoonfuls of salt, 1 teaspoonful of ground 
cloves, 1 tablespoonful of ground cinnamon, and 1 wineglassful 
of vinegar, and mix all thoroughly with cold water. Turn the 
bags inside out, drop them into boiling water, render out slightly, 
and drop into dry flour, dredging them thoroughly. Turn the 
bags flour side in and fill them with the pudding, securing the 
opening firmly, drop into the copper in which water is boiling 
and cook for at least two hours. If there is sufficient time, the 
pudding will be improved by boiling three or four hours. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Mix 8 pounds of drippings and 15 pounds of sifted flour, rub- 
bing it in thoroughly with the hands, add 3 tablespoonfuls of 
salt, mix with cold water into a stiff paste, roll out to the thick- 
ness of i of an inch and cut into 5-inch squares. Pare and core 
100 apples and place one on each square of the dough. Fill the 
center of the apples with sugar, roll them up in the dough and 
bake them in a greased pan in a hot oven for thirty minutes, or 
until the apples become soft. 

(NOTE. The crust described above is suitable for any meat or 
fried pie.) 



32 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

Into 1 gallon of boiling water place three lemons sliced, 4 
pounds of sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of salt, and boil for ten min- 
utes. Add thickening made of cornstarch or flour mixed with 
cold water, stirring it into the sauce slowly. Then allow the 
sauce to simmer for ten minutes. 

PIES. 

FROM FRESH APPLES, PEACHES, AND PEARS. 

Prepare 30 pounds of fresh fruit, paring and coring the apples 
and pears, and paring and removing the stones from peaches, and 
slice them up. Line the pie plates with the crust prepared as 
hereinbefore described under "Apple dumplings." Fill the 
plates with the fruit, adding about 3 ounces of sugar to each pie, 
sprinkle with cinnamon, cover with thin crust, joining the edges 
of the upper and lower crust and bake in the oven for thirty 
minutes or until slightly brown. 

(NOTE. Pie may be made in the same manner from dried 
fruit which has been soaked in cold water until soft and cooked 
as described under "Stewed dried apples" and "Stewed dried 
peaches" before putting it into the crust. ) 

BREAD. 

Sift 50 pounds of flour into a large kneading pan and add about 
2 pounds of hot dripping. Break ten cakes of yeast into small 
pieces and put into lukewarm water and stir until dissolved. 
Add this to the flour and dripping and also add 2 gallons of 
fresh water and 2 gallons of salt water, luke warm, mixing all 
thoroughly. Dust the dough with a thin coating of flour to pre- 
v.-nt its crusting. Cover the pan with a cloth and stand in a 
warm place from four to six hours, then knead out well and 
make into loaves. Put in well -greased pans and bake in mod- 
erate oven for forty -five minutes. 






^ 



THIS BOOK 




989765 




THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 



