


hi 



niiHifiiliJjh'iiilililfiilllilllJl fjlijffjli! 

: " l I ! ' I , ' I : I I . I ' I . i I ! : . . 1 ! i i ' ' ' 1 . M . M t 



tilil 






HOW TO KEEP WELL 



A TEXT-BOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY AND 

HYGIENE FOR THE LOWER 

GRADES OF SCHOOLS 



BY 
ALBERT F. BLAISDELL, M.D. 

AUTHOR OF "CHILD'S BOOK OF HEALTH,"" OUR BODIES AND How 
WE LIVE," " LIFE AND HEALTH," " PRACTICAL PHYSIOLOGY " 



REVISED EDITION 




GINN & COMPANY 

BOSTON NEW YORK CHICAGO LONDON 



Blaisdell's Series of Physiologies 

By Albert F. Blaiidell, M.D. 



Child's Book of Health. Revised Edition 
List price, 30 cents 

How to Keep Well. Revised Edition 
List price, 45 cents 

Our Bodies and How We Live. Reoised Edition 
List price, 65 cents 

Life and Health. 

List price, 90 cents 

Practical Physiology. 

List price, $1.10 

How to Teach Physiology. A Handbook for Teachers 
List price, 1 cents 



G1NN & COMPANY PUBLISHERS 



ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL 



COPYRIGHT, 1884, 1891 
BY LEE AND SHEPARD 



COPYRIGHT, 1893, 1904 
BY ALBERT F. BLAISDELL 



ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 



58.5 



g fat fltfacncum 

GINN & COMPANY PRO- 
PRIETORS BOSTON U.S.A. 



PREFACE TO REVISED EDITION 

Owing to a demand for a revision of this book the author has 
undertaken to rewrite, rearrange, and illustrate its several chap- 
ters in harmony with the latest ideas of teaching this branch of 
study. In this edition, as in previous editions, the author has 
aimed to present clearly and tersely the simplest facts concern- 
ing our bodily life. 

The author believes that instruction in physiology is of little 
value to pupils in the lower grades of our schools merely as a 
scientific study. It is of profit only so far as a text-book for 
these grades is a means to enable young boys and girls to 
understand the simple laws of health and apply them intelli- 
gently to their daily living ; yet if they are to understand even 
the plainest rules of health they need to know something about 
the structure and use of the various parts of " the house we live 
in." To this end a few facts about anatomy and physiology have 
been presented in each chapter. 

To make the book more attractive and interesting to the young 
student, the author has used a familiar style, weaving into the 
text such incidental matter as may serve to arouse the interest 
and maintain the attention of young pupils. 

In this edition, as in other editions, a series of carefully graded 
and practical experiments has been added to the text of the 



iv PREFACE 

various chapters. These experiments are simple and may be 
performed with inexpensive apparatus. 

This book complies with the laws of those states which require 
in their public schools the study of the nature and effect of 
alcohol, tobacco, and other narcotics upon the human system. 

The author would acknowledge his indebtedness to Dr. Mar- 
garet B. Wilson, of the New York Normal College, for helpful 
suggestions and criticisms in the preparation of his manuscript 
for the press. 



A. F. BLAISDELL. 



WINCHESTER, MASS., 
November, 1904. 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER I 

PAGE 

INTRODUCTION i 

CHAPTER II 
THE FRAMEWORK OF THE BODY 9 

CHAPTER III 
THE MUSCLES AND HOW WE MOVE 31 

CHAPTER IV 
PHYSICAL EXERCISE 43 

CHAPTER V 
WHAT WE EAT AND DRINK 61 

CHAPTER VI 
ORIGIN AND NATURE OF FERMENTED DRINKS 74 

CHAPTER VII 
DIGESTION, AND HOW IT GOES ON 87 

CHAPTER VIII 
THE BLOOD AND ITS CIRCULATION in 

CHAPTER IX 

WHY AND HOW WE BREATHE 1! 



VI CONTENTS 

CHAPTER X 

PAGE 

How OUR BODIES ARE COVERED 151 

CHAPTER XI 
How OUR BODIES ARE KEPT WARM 165 

CHAPTER XII 
THE NERVOUS SYSTEM: HOW IT GOVERNS THE BODY 176 

CHAPTER XIII 
THE FIVE GATEWAYS OF KNOWLEDGE 196 

CHAPTER XIV 
BACTERIA AND DISEASES THAT SPREAD 214 

CHAPTER XV 

HELP AT HAND; OR WHAT TO DO FOR SIMPLE AILMENTS AND IN 
ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES 223 

NOTES 241 

GLOSSARY 253 

INDEX . 261 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



CHAPTER I 

INTRODUCTION 

1. The Study of our Bodies. Our bodies are always 
busy. We move about and are warm. We eat, drink, 
and work. We feel, hear, see, think, talk, and breathe. 
We do not often wonder about these things, simply 
because they are so common. When we do stop to 
think about them we realize how wonderful it is to live 
and keep in good health. 

What study could be more important, more interest- 
ing, or more fascinating than that of our own bodies ! 
We may well wonder at the marvelous work of some 
delicate machine, for it seems as if it were really alive ; 
but when we study the human body we find it not simply 
a most perfect machine, but one actually endowed with 
life, a mind, a soul. 

2. Questions which appeal to Thoughtful Pupils. The 
study of our own bodies often suggests many interesting 
questions, which should be of personal interest to every 
thoughtful pupil. How do we move from one place to 



2 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

another? Why are we hungry? Why do we eat food 
and drink water? What happens to the food after we 
swallow it? Why are we warm even on the coldest 
day of midwinter? 

All these questions, and many more, this little book 
will try to answer. There will not be room to tell you 
all about the wonders of our bodies, but you can learn 
something of the story. There is, of course, much more 
to learn. When you know all that there is in this book 
you will be so interested, we hope, that you may wish 
to give further study to this same subject. 

3. How the Body may be compared to an Engine. Our 
bodies are in several ways like a steam engine. The food 
is to the body what coal, wood, or other fuel is to the 
engine. Neither the body nor the engine can do its 
work without food or fuel, and plenty of air besides. 

The engine may be said to feed on its fuel. It gets 
rid of its waste in the form of clinkers and ashes. The 
body, as you will learn later, gets rid of its waste by the 
breath, by the sweat, and in other ways. 

The engine will not do its work well unless all of 
its parts are kept in working order. So it is with our 
bodies. Each and every part must be used in its proper 
way and be kept neat and clean, both inside and outside. 

Every part of an engine depends upon some other 
part. Thus if the rods and joints are not well rubbed 
and oiled, the wheels will not turn easily. So it is with 



INTRODUCTION 3 

the body. Every part depends for its well-being upon 
some other part. Even when we are hungry, bad news 
may take away the appetite. If the heart is out of 
order, although every other part of the body may seem 
well, we soon become ill and perhaps may die. 

4. How the Body is unlike an Engine. If we think for 
a moment, we shall see that the body is unlike an engine 
in several ways. The fuel of an engine is burnt in the 
fire box, a separate part of the ma- 
chine set apart for this purpose. 
Our food is burnt, or oxidized as 
it is called, bit by bit in nearly A 
every part of the body. Unlike 
the fuel of the engine, which burns 
quickly with a bright light, our 

food burns gently and slowly with- f IG . , Diagram of a Cell 

out giving out any light. At ceU wa u ; Bt nucleus; c, 

Unlike a machine, the body dark spot known as a nu- 

J cleolus; Z>, mass of jellylike 

grOWS. Think how quickly the substance known as proto- 
... . .. , , plasm or living matter 

helpless child becomes a stout 

boy, and then a strong man ! The engine is always 
wearing out. If it works badly now and then, it must 
be stopped, taken apart, and repaired. That is, the 
engine cannot mend or repair itself. 

The body, too, is always wearing out ; but, unlike the 
engine, it can repair itself while it is at work. Of course 
our bodies cannot remake themselves in all ways. If 




4 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

the lobster loses a claw, another will grow, and after a 
time be as good as the lost one. But if we lose an arm 
or a leg, kind Nature will not give us another limb. 

5. The Story told by the Microscope. If we examine 
with a high-power microscope a tiny bit of the body, we 
find that it is made up of a countless number of parti- 
cles composed of a jellylike material, each having within 
itself the power to live and grow. These tiny particles 
of living material are called cells. 

Now all the material of our bodies, and also that of 
every living thing, whether plants or animals, is made up 
either of living cells or of things which 
these cells have made. The strong man, 
the huge elephant, the giant oak, the 
smallest insect, and the dainty wild flower, 
each began life as a little cell. 
IG ' 2 '~ These cells are arranged by groups into 

of an Amoeba Cell J l 

The amoeba is a tiny man Y kinds f tisSUCS and Organs. The 

creature found in ce ll s o f eacn tissue or organ have a special 

water which con- . . 

tains decaying structure which enables them to do their 

own distinct work in our bodily life. 
Thus we shall learn later that certain cells become 
muscles which move the body. Other cells form the 
hard material of bones and the soft, pulpy substance of 
the brain. There are other cells, as those of the liver, 
the lungs, and the kidneys, whose duty it is to rid the 
body of waste matters. 




INTRODUCTION 



6. Some Hard We ^ explained. Before we begin the 

udy of the more inte* ~>rt* of this book we have 

t-j do something like crac*.. .he o --ell of a nut to get 

at its kernel. We need to learn the meaning of a few 

hard words. 

Before we can tell how plants and animals live we 
must know what plants and animals are. A watch- 
maker could not understand the working of a watch 
unless he first learned something 
about its various parts. So it is 
with the study of our bodies. We 
must learn a few simple things 
about their structure before we can 
understand the manner in which 
the various parts do their work. 

For instance, in each of the fol- 
lowing chapters we shall try to learn 
about the different parts of the body, what and where 
they are, and how they look. This is called anatomy. 

Again, after we have studied a few things about the 
different parts of the body, we need to learn about the 
uses of these parts. This is called physiology. 

Now, after we have studied the structure and the uses 
of various parts of the body, we ought to learn how to 
take care of them and keep them in health. This is 
called hygiene, or the study which tells us how to keep 
well. 




FIG. 3. Cells found in 
the Juice of Apples 



6 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

7. Tissues and Organs. The countless myriads of cells 
in our bodies are arranged in groups, each consisting of 
similar cells which have a special structure quite differ- 
ent from that of other cells. These groups of similar 
cells are known as tissues. 

The body is thus made up of tissues such as flesh or 
muscle, bone, nervous tissue, and so on. Some of the 
tissues hold together and help support various parts of 
the body. Other tissues make up other parts which 
have a special work to carry out. These parts are 
called organs. 

Thus the stomach is an organ of digestion, the eye of 
sight, and the lungs of breathing. Each of these organs 

is made up of a number of dif- 
ferent tissues. 

8. Why the Care of our Health 
is a Duty. We ought to keep 
ourselves in good health as far 
as we are able, that we may do 

FIG. 4. Various Kinds of J m 

Cells well what we have to do in life, 

A, cells from the intestines ; ff, cell and be USef ul to Others, and not 

from a dog's mouth - c, ceil from become a burden to them. Few 

the inner surface of the windpipe ; 

A cell from the lining of the people can be happy or very 

mouth, seen on its broad surface , , ., , ,, 

useful if they are not well. 

Everybody has some work to do in the world ; nobody 
can afford to be idle. Some have to work with their 
hands, others with their heads; but all work can be 




INTRODUCTION 




done best only when the body and mind are healthy. 
To keep ourselves alive, we must have two things, 
food and air. But to keep ourselves well and strong, 
the food must be of the right sort, 
and the air must be pure; we must 
be cleanly and temperate; we must 
have plenty of exercise in the day- 
time, and plenty of sleep at night. 

If we know the uses of the differ- 
ent parts of our bodies, we shall 
understand better how to keep them 
in good order, just as a boy can 
take better care of his bicycle if he 
understands the uses of its different 
parts. 

We cannot be -ill without giving 
trouble to those with whom we live, 
and causing them expense and loss 
of time. We may not be able to prevent all sickness and 
disease, but a great deal can be prevented when we 
learn to take good care of ourselves. 

Boys and girls may learn many things about the 
wonderful structure of the body and how to take better 
care of its various parts. When they grow older they 
can learn more ; and the more they learn the more they 
will see that it is a duty they owe both to themselves 
and to others to do all in their power to keep well 



FIG. 5. Cells from a 
Lymphatic Gland, 
showing the Fine 
Network of Connect- 
ive or Supporting 
Tissue 



8 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW 

1. Why do we not wonder about the things we notice and read 
about our bodies ? 

2. What do we realize if we stop to think about these things ? 

3. What can you say about the importance of this study of our 
bodies ? 

4. What are some of the questions which should appeal to every 
thoughtful person ? 

5. Where do we have an opportunity to learn the answers to some 
of these questions ? 

6. Describe in some detail how the body may be compared to 
an engine. 

7. How will you show that the body is unlike an engine ? 

8. What do we find if a tiny bit of the body is examined with 
a microscope? 

9. Of what are living plants and animals made up ? 

10. How are the cells of the body arranged ? 

11. Before we begin to study this book what is necessary to be 
learned in order to understand the subject ? 

12. What is the first thing to be learned about plants and animals ? 

13. How may you illustrate this point by what a skillful watch- 
maker must do ? 

14. What is meant by the word anatomy ? 

15. What do you mean by the word physiology ? 

16. How will you explain the use of the word hygiene ? 

17. Can you illustrate the meaning of the words anatomy, physi- 
ology, and hygiene by taking the stomach or the eye for an illustration ? 

18. Explain how the countless cells of the body are arranged into 
groups. 

19. Give illustrations to show how the body is made up of various 
tissues. 

20. Explain in some detail how the care of our health should be 
a duty. 



CHAPTER II 

THE FRAMEWORK OF THE BODY 

9. The Bony Framework. The bones are the frame- 
work of the body. They are to the body what timbers 
are to a house, or ribs to a vessel. They may be com- 
pared to the framework of an engine. 

The brain is like the engineer who directs all. When 
the engineer moves a lever the steam puts the machinery 
in motion. When we wish to move, a message is sent 
from the brain along the nerves to the muscles. The 
muscles pull upon the bones and move the limbs. 

10. The Use of the Bones. The bones are something 
more than a framework. They serve other useful pur- 
poses ; one is to protect the soft parts of the body. Thus 
the bones of the skull inclose the delicate brain, and the 
ribs form a barrel-shaped cage of bones which protects 
the heart and the lungs. 

Grooves and canals in the solid bone shelter tiny blood 
vessels and delicate nerves. There are little knobs, grooves, 
and sharp edges upon the surfaces of many bones, to 
which muscles and ligaments are fastened. 

11. The Number of Bones. How many bones have we 
in our bodies? Let me tell you. There are about two 

9 



10 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

hundred in all. They are of various sizes and shapes. 
Every bone has its name and is fully described in larger 
books which you may wish to study some day. 

Experiment. The mineral or earthy part of bone may be readily 
shown by putting a portion of a beef soup bone on the hot, clear fire 

of a kitchen stove until it is at a white 
heat. The animal matter is soon burnt 
out, leaving the white, earthy part, which 
readily crumbles. The bone must be 
watched lest it burn too long and 
crumble into pieces. Every outline of 
it is seen if it is removed from the fire 
with care and allowed to cool. 

12. The Composition of Bone. 
Bones are very hard and strong. 
On handling a piece of hard 

FIG. 6. -End of a Beef Bone bone we WQuld scarce l y believe 
burnt as suggested in Experi- 

ment that there is any soft matter in 

(From a photograph of work done it. In reality CVCry bone is COm- 
by a pupil at home) posed of a soft? j dlylike sub . 

stance, or animal matter, and a hard substance, or earthy 
matter, made up largely of the mineral known as lime. 

Perhaps you have seen the jelly that is made when 
a calf's foot or a beef bone is boiled for a long time. 
This is some of the animal matter which has been 
separated from the earthy matter by boiling. 

In childhood the bones have a larger proportion of 
animal matter than they contain in adult life, while in 
old age they have more lime. Hence the bones of 




THE FRAMEWORK OF THE BODY 



II 



children often bend rather than break in the many 
tumbles with which they meet. 

The bones of an old person are brittle compared with 
those of a child. Thus it is that the bones of old people 
are more easily broken and are often difficult to reset. 

The bones are elastic. The Arab children, it is said, 
make excellent bows from the ribs of camels. 

Experiment. A simple experiment may show the animal part of 
bone. Any long, slender bone, like a chicken's or lamb's leg bone, 
may be used. Obtain the bone at the 
market ; scrape and clean it. Fill 
a quart glass fruit jar nearly full of 
water, adding a cupful of muriatic 
acid. Soak the bone in the acid 
mixture for a few days. The earthy 
matter is slowly dissolved, leaving 
the bone in its form, but so soft and 
flexible that it can be readily cut 
and bent. 




The power of bone to resist FlG 7 ._ showing how the Small 

decay is remarkable. Bones Bone of a Sheep's Leg may be 

have been dug from the earth 
which have withstood decay 
for many hundreds of years. 

13. General Make-up of Bones. 
- If we take a long bone, like that from a sheep's leg, 
or even one end of a beef bone, and saw it lengthwise, 
we see that the ends are soft and spongy, while the rest 
is very hard. 



bent after its Earthy Matter has 
been soaked in an Acid Mixture 
as described in Experiment 

(From a photograph of work done 
by a pupil in the schoolroom) 



12 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 




FIG. 8. How a Thin Section of Dry 
Bone appears when it is examined 
with the Microscope 



We all know that it is 
quite easy to crunch with 
our teeth the large end of 
a chicken's leg bone, and 
that it is often very diffi- 
cult to dent the middle 
part. Some bones are hol- 
low inside and filled with 



a soft oily substance called marrow. This gives a certain 
flavor and richness to soup. 
Crush one end of a bone 
and hold it over a hot fire. 
The heat will soon melt the 
marrow', which will sputter 
and burn like tallow. The 
marrow is the life of the 
bone. The Bible tells us 
that the "bones are moist- 
ened with marrow." 

14. More about Bones. - 
The bones of some animals, 
like lobsters, are, as you 
know, on the outside in the 




FIG. 9. Teaching the Bones in 
the Schoolroom 



form of a shell. All our 
bones are inside, and are 
covered with flesh and fat; 
over all is the skin. 



The teacher is showing her pupils the 
appearance of the hard and spongy 
structure of bone, with the aid of a 
thigh bone which has been sawed for 
this purpose by the market man 
(From a photograph taken in 
the class room) 



THE FRAMEWORK OF THE BODY 



While we do not cast off our bony framework for a 
new one every year, as the lobster does, yet our bones 

are all the time being changed. 
They are probably never the 
same throughout any single 
hour of our lives. 

The bones are supplied with 
millions of tiny holes, through 




FIG. io. The Skull 
(Front View) 

A, frontal, or forehead bone ; B, 
left parietal bone, or left side 
wall of head ; C, left temporal, 
or temple bone ; Z>, left sphe- 
noid, or wedge bone ; E, left 
malar, or cheek bone ; f, left 
upper jawbone ; G, lower jaw- 
bone 




which the smallest 
blood vessels wind 
their way, bringing 
food for the bone and 



FIG ii. The Skull (Side View) 

A, right upper jawbone ; B, right malar, or cheek 
bone ; C, right nasal, or nose bone ; D, lower 
jawbone ; E, frontal, or forehead bone ; F, right 
parietal bone, or right side wall of head ; G, 
occipital bone, forming lower part of back of 
the head ; //, right temporal, or temple bone ; 
K, right sphenoid, or wedge bone 



carrying away waste 

matters. Thus the blood flows through every bit of 

bone as through any other living part of the body. 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



15. The Shape of Bones. ^If you will look at the pic- 
tures of bones in this book, you will see that they are 
of many different shapes. Some are long and hollow, 
as the bones of the arm and the leg, while others are 
short, as the bones of the ringers and the toes. Some 

are flat, to cover exposed 
places, like the kneepan and 
shoulder blades, 'while others 
are of various odd shapes, as 
the bones of the ankle, the 
wrist, and the backbone. 

16. The Skeleton. The 
skeleton, or bony framework of 
the house in which we live, 
a house far more wonderful 
than any king's palace, since 
it can move about of itself and 

FIG. 12. The Top of the Skull, has living walls, consists of 

the bones of the head, the trunk, 
and the limbs. 
17. The Bones of the Head. The bones of the top and 
back of the head make a very strong box, commonly 
called the skull. When we speak of the head we mean 
the head and the face. (Figs. 10 and 1 1.) 

The top part of the head holds the brain. The skull 
is made up of several bones tightly fastened together by 
a kind of dovetailing similar to that used by a carpenter. 




showing how the Bones are 
dovetailed together by Sutures 



THE FRAMEWORK OF THE BODY 



These dovetailed joints are called sutures, 
meaning sewing, or seams. 

If we put our hand on the head of a 
little baby, just above the 
forehead, we find a soft 
place, often called a "little 
fountain." Why is this? 
Simply because, in very 
young children, the edges 
of these bones do not yet 
meet, and the throbbing of 
the brain is easily seen and 
felt through the thin scalp. 
Thus a slight blow on an 
infant's head may do seri- 
ous harm to the brain. 

18. What the Skull con- 
tains. Let us see what 
the skull, or cupola, of our 
bodily house holds. There 
are the eyes with which we 

see, and the ears with which 
FIG. 13. The _ 

Backbone, seen we hear - Then there 1S the 

from the Right mouth into which we put 
our food, and the nose with 
which we smell. And more than all, there 



FIG. 14. The 
Backbone, seen 

is within it the brain with which we think, from Behind 



i6 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



19. The Trunk. The trunk is the central part of the 
body. Its bones are those of the backbone, the ribs, the 
breastbone, and the hips. 

20. The Backbone. The backbone, or spine, the main 
pillar of our bodily house, is a tapering pile of twenty- 
six separate bones put one on top of another. The 
bottom of each fits exactly into the top of the next. 

Between the bones are 
little pads of gristle which 
serve, like the rubber tires 
of a bicycle, to break the 
force of any jar upon the 
backbone. (Figs. 13 and 14.) 

Upon each bone of the 
spine there are knobs of 
bone to which are fastened 
muscles which keep the 
back erect. We can feel 
these bony ridges, or 
spines, by running the 

FIG. 15. Showing how the Ribs are J 

attached to the Sternum, or Breast- fingers down the middle 

bone, and also showing the Back- of the back. 
bone (Front View) 




The ^ ^ yQu 

to be served with fish for dinner, ask to be shown the 
large middle bone. It is the fish's backbone, and it will 
give you an idea of your own, for it is built on much 
the same plan. 



THE FRAMEWORK OF THE BODY 



1 7 




21. The Spine as a Marvelous Machine. The spine is 
built in a most marvelous manner, a curious and won- 
derful piece of mechanism. It is so put together that 
it will bear a heavy burden and 

yet bend almost like rubber. Its 
three curves give the back its 
graceful form. 

Think of the great weight 
which some people can carry on 
their heads with ease and safety. 
How often we see women in our 
large cities walking through the 
crowded streets with huge bun- 
dles of wood on their heads! 

Perhaps you have seen per- 
formers in the circus, or in the 
theater, bend their backs until they can put their heads 
on the ground or clasp their legs around their necks. 
Such people rarely meet with an accident, although 
they are able to bring this wonderful pile of bones 
nearly into the shape of a hoop. 

22. The Ribs. The ribs, twelve on each side, slope 
downwards from the backbone and curve round, some- 
what like the hoops of a barrel or a tub, to form the 
front wall of the chest. 

The seven upper ribs on each side join the breast- 
bone separately, but the next three are joined first to 



FIG. 1 6. The Scapula, or 
Shoulder Blade 



i8 



. HOW TO KEEP WELL 



one another and then bend up to join the seventh rib. 
The last two ribs are short and the front ends are not 
joined to any other bones. 

23. The Hip Bones. Every child knows 
how to rest his hands on his hip bones. These 
are the two large, strong, oddly shaped bones 
which support the lower part of the trunk, 
the sills of the house, as it were. 

Each of these bones has a cup-shaped 
cavity on its outer side, about 
as large as a small teacup, 
into which the head of the 
thigh bone fits. 

24. The Collar Bone. The 
shoulder consists of the collar 
bone and the shoulder blade. 
These are the braces of the 
arms, one before and 



FIG 17 The 
Humerus, or behind each arm. 

Large Bone 
of the Arm 



one 



can eas jj fed the ^ 

. J 

lar bone reaching across the 
top of the chest, like a slender crossbeam, 
above the first rib. It is fastened at one 
end to the shoulder blade and at the other 
to the breastbone. The collar bone is 

, T . . , r 

greatly exposed to injury and often bears 
the brunt of a fall. No bone is oftener 



FIG. 18. The 
ulna and the 

Radius, or the 

Two Bones of 
the Forearm 



THE FRAMEWORK OF THE BODY 



broken than the collar bone. Even in children it is 
frequently broken by some slight fall or mishap. 

25. The Shoulder Blade. The shoulder blade is a 
broad, flat bone, and is easily found. Put your hand on 

your shoulder, where officers 
wear their epaulets, and move 
your arm back and forth. You 
will feel a bone which seems to 




FIG. 19. Bones of the 
Right Hand 

move with every movement 
of the arm. This is the 
shoulder blade, which has 
a sort of cup or shallow 
saucer into which the 




FIG. 20. Bones of the Right 
Hand and Wrist, as shown 
by an X-Ray Photograph. A 
Ring is plainly shown 



rounded head of the arm bone fits. Thus a joint is 
made, in shape somewhat like a child's cup and ball. 
We can see this for ourselves in the bones of a shoulder 
of mutton. (Fig. 16.) 



20 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



26. The Arm and the Wrist. The main bone of the 
arm is long and strong, extending from the shoulder to 
the elbow, where it meets the two bones of the forearm. 

Below the forearm is the wrist, made up 
of eight little bones wedged together like 
the stones of a pavement, only not quite 
so firmly. (Figs. 17 and 18.) 

27. The Hand. Next to the -wrist are the 
bones of the hand, ending with the thumb 
and fingers. (Fig. 19.) 

The bones of the hand, wrist, and fingers 
are held in place by strong but flexible 
bands and cords. This permits great variety 
of motion. The hand, as everybody knows, 
can do almost anything, from grasping 
heavy tools to making the rapid and diffi- 
cult movements required in ornamental 
pemanship and in operating a typewriting 
machine. 

How wonderful it is that the deaf and 
dumb talk with their hands and the blind 
read with their fingers ! Even the most 
common things that we do with our hands 
every day are really wonderful. 

28. The Bones of the Legs. We may think of the legs 
as like the two piers of an arch on which the whole 
weight of the body rests. Without bones in our legs 



FIG. 21. The 
Femur, or 
Thigh Bone 



THE FRAMEWORK OF THE BODY 



21 



we could not stand or walk. They are made so strong 
that they can support the weight of the body, and yet so 
light that they are easily moved by the muscles. 

The upper bone of the leg, the thigh bone, is the 
largest and strongest bone in the body. 
It is so large and heavy that warriors of 
certain savage tribes sometimes wear 
the thigh bones of slain enemies at their 
waists as weapons. 

At the knee joint the thigh bone meets 
the two bones of the lower leg, to which it 
is united by stout cords and bands. These 
bones are the shin bone or tibia, and the 
slender splint bone or fibula, which are con- 
nected with the foot at the ankle joint. 

29. The Kneepan. A flat, three-sided 
bone, the kneepan, fits over the knee joint 
in front. If we fall in running, we are apt 
to strike on the knee. This little heart- 
shaped bone is the one that receives the 
1 , FIG. 22. The 

Sh ck - Tibia and Fib- 

We dare say that you have often watched ula, or the Two 
a child when it is trying to walk. , How 
often the little one tumbles on its hands 
and then drops on its knees. Little harm is done, for 
the kneepan protects the ends of the bones under- 
neath it. 



Bones of the 
Leg 



22 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 




FIG. 23. Bones of the Right Foot, seen from the 
Side, showing the Arched Form 



30. The Ankle. The ankle contains seven queerly 

shaped bones, somewhat like those of the wrist, but 

rather larger. They are bound firmly together and are 

strong enough 
to bear the 
weight of the 
body. 

31. The Foot. 
-The foot 
forms an arch, 

known as the instep, which is not unlike the arch of a 

bridge. The heel is at the back and the toes are in front. 

On this arch the body rests. 

The arch is not only very strong, but as the toes are 

formed of several bones the whole foot is made elastic, 

and forms a 

spring on 

which the 

body can be 

thrown in 

walking. 
In animals 

which jump 

or spring for 

their prey 

this elastic character is increased ; and they are provided 

with pads under each joint, which serve to break the 




FIG. 24. Section of the Bones of the Left Foot 

Showing how the bones are joined, the arched form of the 
foot, the attachment of the tendon of Achilles, and also 
other tendons on the bottom of the foot 



THE FRAMEWORK OF THE BODY 



shock they would otherwise receive. You know how 
quietly and easily a cat runs and leaps. If you look at 
her paws, you will see that this is owing to the soft 
little cushions under them. 

32. The Wonderful Things done by the Toes. We have, 
as you know, ten toes, five on each foot. The toe bones 
are much like those of 
the fingers. The toes 
help us to spring in 
walking. Bands and 
cords bind the twenty- 
six little bones of the 
foot firmly together and 
yet allow of many differ- 
ent motions. 

The uses of the foot 
are many, and some of 
the things that may be 
done with the feet are 
wonderful. Armless 
men and women write, 
paint, sew, handle the 
knife and fork in eating, 
and have been known to 
play the violin with their toes alone. Chinese mechanics 
will pick up tools with their toes and work with them 
while using other tools with 'their hands. The Arabs use 




FIG. 25. Review Exercise on the 
Bones 

The pupil, with the aid of a blackboard 
pointer and chart, is describing in order 
the names, the location, and the uses of 
the various bones of the body. (From a 
photograph taken in the schoolroom) 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



their fingers and toes at the same time in braiding ropes. 

It is no wonder that the French people speak of the toes 

as " the fingers of the feet." 

33. How Bones are joined together. The place where 

bones meet and move upon each other is called a joint. 
Get at the market a knuckle of ham or mutton. Open 

the joint by cutting into it, and study what you see. 

Our own joints are made after the 
same general plan. The ends of 
the bones, shaped, as you will see, 
according to the needs of each 
joint, are moist, and are tipped 
with a smooth, glistening layer of 
gristle. 

34. How Joints are kept moist. - 
Joints are bathed with a thick and 
sticky fluid something like the 
white of an egg. This fluid oils 
joints. It allows the rubbing sur- 
faces to move smoothly one on 

another, thus saving much wear and tear. 

Think of a machine which would last " threescore years 

and ten," or more, and which could keep its own joints 

oiled all the time! 

35. The Different Kinds of Joints. Some of the joints 

are real hinges, which allow the parts to open and shut 

like the lid of a box. At the elbow we have a hinge 




FIG. 26. Vertical Section 
through the Shoulder 
Joint, the Arm hanging 
down, showing how the 
End of the Arm Bone fits 
into the Shoulder Blade 



THE FRAMEWORK OF THE BODY 



joint; we can move it only in two directions, that is, 
we can bend or straighten it. When a carpenter ham- 
mers he uses the hinge joint at his elbow. All our 
fingers and toes have hinge joints. 

The most curious joints are called ball-and-socket 
joints because the ball-like head of one bone fits into 
the saucerlike socket of the other. 
When you move your arm backward 
and forward and twist it round like 
the arms of a windmill, you use one 
of these joints. A boy uses this joint 
when he turns a grindstone or swings 
a bat in playing baseball. 

The round head of the thigh bone, 
as you already know, fits into a cup- 
shaped cavity in the hip bone, thus 
giving the legs greater freedom of FIG. 27. Elbow joint 

. sawed in two leneth- 

motion. 

wise, showing how 
36. HOW Bones may be put OUt Of the Lower End of the 

place. The bones are liable to be Arm Bone fits into 

r , ... _,. . the End of the Ulna 

put out of place at the joints. Ihis 

often happens at the shoulder joint and occasionally at 

the elbow and the hip joints. 

When we hear that a boy has put his shoulder out of 
joint it means that the head of the arm bone has slipped 
out of the shallow saucer in the shoulder blade. Those 
who play ball often put their finger bones out of place. 




26 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

People ought to be very careful not to drag children 
along by one arm, or hold them up by their arms, as 
they often do. There is always danger of putting their 
shoulders out of joint. 

Children should never pull the finger joints to make 
them crack, as it makes the knuckles larger and disfigures 
the hand. 

37. How the Bones are tied to each other. How are 
the ends of the bones held together ? By strong straps, 

or ligaments, much as you 
fasten on your skates. 

Some of these straps, or 
bands, are as narrow as a flat 
shoe lace; others, as at the side 
of the knee or at the shoulder, 
are much wider. Some cross 
each other, as at the knee 
joint; while others entirely 
cover the joint, thus prevent- 
FIG. 28.- showing how the Ribs in g the bones from being easily 

are fastened to the Backbone slipped Out of place. 

by Bands, or Ligaments Sometimes these cords are 

strained or wrenched. The result is a sprain,- which 
usually calls for prompt treatment on account of the 
pain and swelling. 

38. Unnatural Growth of the Bones. The bones of an 
infant will grow out of shape if they are put to unnatural 




THE FRAMEWORK OF THE BODY 




FIG. 29. Showing how the 

Bones of the Head may them, thinking that a 



by Pressure during 
Infancy 

(Based upon a photograph of 



pressure for a long time. Perhaps you have read of 
certain wild races of men who do not live in houses 

nor wear clothes as we do. They 
believe that a baby's head should 
not be left as God made it; so 
they bind small strips of board 
firmly upon the soft and tender 
heads of their babies, to flatten 

flattened 

be artificially deformed s kull of this shape is beautiful. 

We dare say you have heard 
of the distorted feet of Chinese 

an Indian Skull found in women. TheSC people think it is 
the West Indies) , , , - 

lowbred tor women to be useful 
and to have natural feet ; so they 
bind the baby's feet, if it is a 
girl, with strong bands, to pre- 
vent their growing. When these 
poor children become women 
they are scarcely able to move 
about. 

39. Poorly Fitting Boots and 
Shoes. Did you ever think how 
hurtful and silly is the fashion 
of wearing tight and high-heeled 
boots and shoes? Why is it so? Because high heels 
throw the weight of the body forward and force the 




FIG. 30. Effects of Poorly 
Fitting Shoes upon the 
Bones of the Feet 

The large toe of either foot is 
crowded on to the second 
toe, and the remaining toes 
are pressed together in the 
wrong direction. (Based 
upon a photograph from life) 



28 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

foot down on the toes. This crowds the toes out of 
place and destroys the beauty of the foot, besides 
causing much pain and discomfort. After a time such 
unnatural pressure produces tender feet, corns, bunions, 
ingrowing nails, and swollen joints. 

Knowing the practical importance of having comfort- 
able feet, Frederick the Great, it is said, kept a servant 
whose foot was exactly the same size as his own, and 
made him wear his new shoes till he himself could wear 
them with comfort. The Duke of Wellington, being asked 
once as to the most essential part of a soldier's clothing, 
replied, " A good pair of shoes." " What next ? " "A 
spare pair of shoes." And even thirdly, " A spare pair 
of soles." 

40. Hints about the Care of the Bones. Good food, 
fresh air, and sunlight will do much to keep the bones 
well and strong. From lack of these things the leg 
bones in children may become bent, or the chest may 
grow out of shape. 

Schoolroom seats should not be too high nor too low, 
but of a height that will enable the pupil to rest his feet 
squarely and easily upon the floor. If the seat is too high 
or too low the shoulders, spine, and legs may be cramped 
and grow out of shape. 

Of course no one of us would like to become round- 
shouldered. We must learn then to keep ourselves erect, 
with the shoulders thrown back, both when sitting and 



THE FRAMEWORK OF THE BODY 29 

when walking. A little care when one is young, will 
keep the body erect through life. The sooner we learn 
to exercise this care, the better it will be for us. 

Children should not be urged to walk too early, before 
the bones of their legs are hard and strong enough to 
bear the weight of their bodies. The bending of the 
soft bones may after a time cause a child to become 
bow-legged. 

41. Effect of Tobacco on the Bones. As the bones grow 
they need material for building them up. If the blood is 
made poor or poisoned with alcohol or tobacco, the bones 
are deprived of the matter they need for their growth. 
Physicians testify that tobacco tends to stunt the growth 
of the bones. 

Many boys are dwarfing their bodies as well as their 
minds by smoking cigarettes. Every boy wants to be a 
tall, well-formed man. He cannot afford then to form any 
habit that will interfere with his growth. 



30 HOW TO KEEP WELL 



QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW 

1. To what may the bones of our body be compared ? 

2. What useful purposes do the bones serve ? 

3. How many bones are there in the body ? 

4. Of what is bone composed ? 

5. What do you know of the general structure of bone ? 

6. What can you tell of the general shape of bones ? 

7. Of what does the skeleton consist ? 

8. Tell what you can about the bones of the head. 

9. What does the skull contain ? 

10. How will you describe the backbone in some detail ? 

11. What can you say of the backbone as a marvelous machine ? 

12. What are the ribs ? 

13. Describe the hip bones. 

14. How will you describe the collar bone and the shoulder blade ? 

15. Name and describe the bones of the arm. 

16. Mention the bones of the leg and describe each one. 

17. What are some of the wonderful things that may be done by 
the toes ? 

18. How are bones joined to each other ? 

19. Describe the different kinds of joints and give illustrations 
of each. 

20. How may the bones be put out of place, or dislocated ? Give 
some familiar illustrations of the accident. 

21. How are bones fastened to each other ? 

22. What can you say about the unnatural growth of bones as 
illustrated by practices of certain races of men ? 

23. What may be the effect of wearing poorly fitting and high- 
heeled boots and shoes ? 

24. What hints can you give about the care of the bones ? 

25. How may tobacco affect the growth of the bones ? 



CHAPTER III 

THE MUSCLES AND HOW WE MOVE 

42. The Muscles. We move and walk from place to 
place by means of our muscles. Our limbs are moved 
by them. Muscles move not only the limbs but also the 
skin. Watch the horse and see him shake his hide to get 
rid of the biting flies. Our bones, our fingers, our toes, 
our lips, and our eyelids, all are moved by muscles. 

In short, the chief use of muscles is to cause move- 
ment in the various parts of our bodies. 

43. How Muscle looks. Muscle is simply the lean meat 
or the flesh whicrr covers the bony framework. When 
we eat roast beef or mutton chops for dinner we are 
eating muscle. 

When corned beef is boiled until it becomes " stringy," 
we can easily pick it apart with a needle into little 
threads. These threads are bundles of muscular fibers. 
They are bound together into larger bundles by a very 
thin web not unlike the thinnest tissue paper. Each 
of the largest bundles is called a muscle. 

We may compare a muscle to a handful of tiny skeins 
of silk packed into bundles, the smallest thread of which 
is a thousand times finer than the finest hair. 

31 



3 2 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



44. The Size and Shape of Muscles. Muscles are of 
many sizes and shapes. There are a great many of them 
in the body, about five hundred. Some are large, 
others very small ; some are shaped like fans, others like 
feathers. Many are broad and flat in the middle and 
taper at each end. 

Experiments. Obtain from the market or at home a small piece 
of lean corned beef. Use fine needles with which to pick apart the 

bundles and fibers of the muscular 
tissue. Continue until it is diffi- 
cult to see the tiny fibers with the 
naked eye. The experiment may 
be continued with the aid of a hand 
magnifying glass. 

The large muscle of the arm 
(biceps) may be utilized to show 
how muscles contract and relax. 
This simple experiment is commonly 
known as " trying your muscle." 
Stretch out the right arm. Now 
bring the forearm slowly and vig- 
orously toward the shoulder, keeping 
the elbow firm. The mass of flesh on 
the front of the upper arm (biceps 
muscle) may be seen and felt to 
become harder and thicker as the 
closed hand is raised. The biceps 
thus contract. Keeping the elbow 
in the same position, extend the forearm. As the muscle relaxes, it 
seems to become softer and smaller. 




FIG. 31. A Schoolboy who has 
secured a Large Muscular De- 
velopment by the Use of Dumb- 
Bells is engaged in " Trying his 
Muscle " 

(From a photograph of the living 
model) 



In brief, the muscles vary in size and shape according 
to the places where they are found and the work they 



THE MUSCLES AND HOW WE MOVE 



33 



have to do. Sometimes we can trace them under the 
skin, as in the arm and shoulder of a man who does 
hard work. See the brawny arm of the blacksmith as 
he works at his forge. Look at those large muscles, 
" strong as iron bands," that 
bulge out as he brings his 
hammer down on the anvil. 

45. How the Muscles do 
their Work. Muscles have a 
peculiar power of their own 
which is possessed by no 
other organ of the body. That 
is, they do their work by be- 
coming shorter and thicker. 

We see something like 
muscular action in a piece of 
india rubber. If we take a 
piece of this and stretch it, 
we see that it becomes thinner. When we let it go it 
snaps back and once more becomes shorter and thicker. 
Muscles work in a somewhat similar way. The great 
difference is that the rubber cannot contract until it has 
been stretched. 

46. Muscular Action illustrated by the Muscles of the 
Arm. Let us see how this power in our muscles enables 
us to move. What happens when we bend the arm, as 
boys do to " try their muscle " ? 




FIG. 32. Well-Developed Mus- 
cles of the Arm and Back, as 
shown in the Same Model as 
in Fig. 31 



34 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

Stretch out your right arm and grasp it above the 
elbow with your left hand, halfway to the shoulder. Now 
bend it firmly and briskly up and down, and feel the big 
muscle on the front of the arm swell and harden as you 
grasp it with your hand. Let us see what has happened. 
47. How Muscular Action is produced. When you wish 
to draw up your hand toward your shoulder the brain 

sends a mes- 
sage to the 
muscle. The 
muscle a t 
once shortens 
and pulls up 
the forearm 
towards the 
shoulder. 
Watch the 

FIG. 33. Superficial Muscles on the Right Side of the 

Head, Neck, and Chest, and also those of the Inner bare arm of a 
Side of the Left Arm Strong man 

while he raises his hand to his shoulder and you will see 
the muscle swell up as it becomes thicker and shorter. All 
similar movements, such as closing the hand, opening the 
mouth, and lifting the leg, are really made in the same way. 

This is muscular action. The growing thicker and 
shorter is called the contraction of a muscle. 

All muscles act by contraction, though not all the mus- 
cles are fastened to bones. Thus the tube through which 




THE MUSCLES AND HOW WE MOVE 



35 



food passes from the mouth to the stomach is made up 
in part of rings of muscle. These rings contract one 
after another, and thus the food is 
pushed by a wavelike motion into the 
stomach. One of the muscles of the 
mouth is in the shape of a ring. This 
enables us to pucker our lips. 

48. Some Muscles not under our Con- 
trol. There are some muscles in our 
bodies, however, which are not under 
the control of our will. These act and 
move and do their 
work whether we 
wish it or not. In- 
deed, they even 
act when we are 
asleep. 

The stomach, 
FIG. 34 .-Superficiai for instance, which 

Muscles on the Side digests Our food, 
and Back of the hag musc l es m j ts 
Right Leg. The 

Tendons of the Leg walls which we 

and Foot are well cannot control. FlG . 35 ._ Superficial Mus- 
As SOOn as we cles on the Inner Side of 

the Left 





swallow a mouthful of food, and it 

passes into the stomach, the nerves feel that it is there 

and the muscles act in the proper manner to digest it. 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



49. The Heart as a Muscle. The heart, which pumps 
the blood, is really a muscle which does its work without 
our even thinking about it. We know that the heart is 

always beating. 
If we place one 
hand on the 
left side, we 
always feel it 
beating. It 
seems to say 
"lub,dup,"and 
never stops as 
long as we live. 
If we had to 
will every beat 
of the heart, 
how annoying 
it would be 
even when we 
are awake ! 
We should not 
be able to think 
about anything 
else and we 

FIG. 36. A Few of the Larger Muscles of the Back should never 

On the left side of the body the larger superficial muscles dare tO gO tO 
are shown. On the right side the superficial layer is 
removed, exposing the deeper layers of muscles Sleep. 




37 



Years ago a man lived in Ireland 
who could, by an effort of his will, 
cause his heart to stop beating for 
a few moments. He at last lost his 
life in the act. 

Let us then remember that al- 
though all of the muscles are under 
the control of the nerves, not all of 
them are controlled by the will. 
Some muscles, such as those of our 
hands, our feet, our eyes, and our 
lips, which have to do different 
things at different times, are under 
the control of the will and do what 
we bid them. 

50. The Tendons. Some muscles 
are fastened directly to the bones. 
Other muscles are not fastened to 
bones by their fleshy parts, but by 
their fibers, which taper into tough 
white, shining cords called tendons. 

If we put the fingers on the front 
part of the wrist and then work the 
hands and fingers, we feel some 
cords just beneath the skin. These 
little ropes with which the muscles 
the hand and fingers. (Fig. 42.) 




FIG. 37. Diagram show- 
ing Some of the Muscles 
of the Upper Part of the 
Body that may be devel- 
oped by Horizontal-Bar 
Exercise 

(Based upon a photograph 
of the living model) 

are tendons, the 
in the forearm pull 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



If we bend our fingers to and fro, we can see the 
tendons move on the back of the hand. Children often 

amuse themselves at Thanks- 
giving time by pulling the white 
cord or tendon in the leg of a 
turkey and seeing its toes move. 

Experiment. With the aid of the 
marketman, or some friend, obtain the 
leg of a fowl, a turkey, or a lamb. Cut 
away the parts until the tendons are 
exposed. Pull on the tendons, noting 
how they serve to move the feet and 
the toes. 

51. What Tendons are used for. 
Tendons save a great deal of 
space and allow great freedom 
of movement where muscles 
large enough to do the work 
would be bulky and clumsy. 
What large and awkward feet 
we should have if all the mus- 
cles which are needed to pull 
the toes were in the foot ! 

The longest and strongest 
tendon in the body is just back 
of the ankle (Fig. 41). It is 
called the tendon of Achilles, after 
the Greek hero of that name. 




FIG. 38. Diagram showing 
Some of the Large Muscles 
of the Left Side and Back 
that are brought into Play 
in a Ladder Exercise 

(From a photograph of the 
living model) 



THE MUSCLES AND HOW WE MOVE 



39 



According to one story Achilles received his death wound 
in the heel, no other part of his body being liable to injury. 

Perhaps you have noticed that the marketman uses 
this strong tendon with which to hang up on hooks legs 
of mutton and great sides of 
beef. 

52. Ill Effect of Alcoholic 
Drinks upon the Muscles. - 
Will alcoholic liquors make 
the muscles stronger? Will 
they enable the drinker to do 



more or better work ? These 
are questions which every 
one should be able to answer 
correctly. 

It used to be thought that 
these drinks were a help to 
people who had to do hard 
work with their muscles, be- 
cause it made them feel better 
for a little while. So when 
the farmer had a big day's 
work for his men in the hay- 
field he gave them hard cider or some other alcoholic 
drink, believing they could work better for it. Rations 
of rum were served to sailors when they had extra hard 
work to do, or were exposed to severe weather. 




FIG. 39. Diagram showing Some 
of the Muscles on the Back of 
the Body that are brought into 
Play in pushing a Boat 

(Based upon a photograph of the 
living model) 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 




But after a time it was noticed that men who did not 
take these drinks could do better work and keep at it 

longer than those who did. 
They were not so tired when 
night came and were in better 
condition for work the next 
day. 

53. Effect of Alcoholic Bever- 
ages upon Muscular Work. 
Careful tests have been made 
recently to find 
out the effect of 
alcoholic bever- 
ages upon the 
working power of large bodies of men. 

A number of workmen were once 
divided into two companies, each en- 
gaged in the same kind of work. For 
a week the men in one company took 
no alcoholic drinks of any kind ; the men 
in the other drank as usual. Before the 
end of the week the men who were using FlG ^ _ 
no alcohol found they could do more 
work with less fatigue than when they 
drank beer. The next week the other company of 
men made the same trial, and with the same result. 
A trial was made with companies of soldiers on a long 



FIG. 40. The Shoulder Joint, 
showing the Cut Ends of a 
Few Tendons 




Tendon of 
Achilles 



THE MUSCLES AND HOW WE MOVE 



march. Some companies were given alcoholic drinks, 
others none. At the end of the trial those who had 
taken no drink containing alcohol came out ahead. 

A six-day bicycle race took place a few years ago 
in New York. The man who won the race was a total 
abstainer from all alcoholic drinks, 
as was also the one who came in 
second. The third man drank a little 
while he was training, and the fourth 
took a glass of beer once in a while. 

Occasionally one hears of a strong 
man who uses some alcoholic liquor, 
but this is no proof that the drink 
makes him strong or that he would 
not, like other men who have made 
the trial, be stronger without than 
with such drinks. 

54. Effect of Tobacco on the Muscles. 
Tobacco causes weakness and un- 

FIG. 42. Tendons on 

steadiness of the muscles. Applicants the Back of the Left 
for the position of bookkeeper are Hand 
frequently rejected because of the tobacco habit, which 
shows itself in their unsteady handwriting. One of the 
first things demanded of a young man who is going into 
training for a foot race is to stop smoking. 




42 HOW TO KEEP WELL 



QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW 

1. How do we move from place to place ? 

2. How can you show the action of muscles in different parts of 
the body ? 

3. How may we sum up the chief use of muscles ? 

4. What is muscle ? Illustrate. 

5. How does a piece of well-boiled beef illustrate the structure of 
muscle ? 

6. To what may muscle be compared ? 

7. What can you say of the size and shape of muscles ? 

8. What peculiar power has muscular tissue ? 

9. How may india rubber serve to illustrate muscular action ? 

10. Show how the muscles of the right arm may be used to illus- 
trate muscular action ? 

11. How is muscular action produced ? 

12. What is meant by muscular contraction ? 

13. How may we illustrate muscular contraction by means of the 
food tube ? 

14. What can you say of muscles that are not under our control ? 

15. How does the heart act as a muscle ? 

16. What muscles are under the control of the will ? 

17. What are tendons ? 

18. What purpose do tendons serve ? 

19. How may the fingers illustrate the action of tendons ? 

20. What are tendons used for ? 

21. What is the tendon of Achilles ? 

22. Do alcoholic beverages make the muscles stronger ? 

23. What tests have been made to show the effect of alcoholic 
drinks upon workmen ? 

24. What other tests have been made upon soldiers in other feats 
of endurance ? 

25. What is the effect of tobacco upon the muscles ? 



CHAPTER IV 

PHYSICAL EXERCISE 

55. The Importance of Physical Culture. The best way 
to keep a machine in working order is to use it. By 
proper and moderate use we should expect to get better 
results than if we wore out a machine by long or hard 
use or allowed it to stand idle. 

We have already been told that our bodies in some 
respects are like machines and may be compared to a 
locomotive. Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes has well said 
that our bodies are like clocks. " The angel of life 
winds them up arid gives the key to the angel of res- 
urrection." Should it not then be our duty to see to 
it that our bodily clocks are kept running in the very 
best order? 

As keepers of these clocks we would not have them 
run down before their time or get stiff or useless for lack 
of proper care. No, indeed, for all of us want to live 
useful, healthy, and happy lives, as free as possible from 
ills and worry. To do this we must keep our bodies in 
good physical condition. 

56. The First Step toward Physical Culture. The first 
step toward physical culture is to realize the importance 

43 



44 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



of beginning and carrying out a series of systematic exer- 
cises. One half of the battle of physical training has been 
won when boys and girls begin to take a real interest in 
their bodily condition. 

We need to take physical exercise as much as we do 
to eat our daily meals. How foolish to say, " I feel 
well enough ; I don't need 




FIG. 43. Coasting 

exercise." The wise person is one who 
takes his regular out-of-door exercise daily for the sake 
of his health. A famous doctor says, " I would rank 
exercise and an out-of-door life far above any known 
remedies for the cure of disease." 

57. Muscles made Stronger by Use. Every part of our 
bodies ought to be used if we wish to keep well. We 
all know what stout, strong arms a wood chopper or 
a teamster has. Why are their muscles so strong and 



PHYSICAL EXERCISE 



45 



firm? It is because they are used so much. Regular 
use, instead of wearing the muscles out, as it would if 
they were merely tools, gives them strength and firmness. 

It is just the same with all the other organs of the 
body. A person who uses his eyes as he ought usu- 
ally has keener eyesight than others 
and sees many things which others 
cannot see. One who uses his ears 
as he ought hears much that others 
do not hear. 

We are told that savages, 
who look and listen intently 
for enemies or game, have eyes that 
are actually keener and larger than 
ours, just as the ball player's arm 
grows larger by regular use. 

58. Every Part of the Body made Stronger 
by Exercise. Any part of our body that 
we do not use tends to become weak and 
helpless. Let the trained football player FIG. 44- - Base- 
change his work for that of a clerk, and 
the once brawny arms become smaller and weaker. Per- 
haps you have read of certain people in India who, as 
an act of worship, keep one arm raised above the head 
until the muscles become feeble and useless. When a 
broken arm or leg is kept in splints for several weeks the 
muscles shrivel and lose their vigor. 




4 6 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



All the parts of the body have so much to do with 
each other that each one has some effect on all the 
others. Now what we commonly call taking exercise 
that is, walking, running, and jumping not only 
strengthens our arms and legs and backs but also makes 

the blood flow faster and more 
briskly. 

59. Exercise for Boys and 
Girls. What a good thing it 
is for boys and girls that they 
are so fond of play! Playing 
baseball and football, running 
races, riding the bicycle, skip- 
ping with a rope, all these 
things help them to grow up 
into active, healthy men and 
women. 

The old adage says, " Change 
of work is as good as play." 
There is a sense in which this 

FIG. 45- Skating J s q u j te true< Jf b ovs Qr gi r ] s 

have been sitting and reading a long time, it rests them 
to get up and take a walk in the open air. If they have 
taken a long walk, it rests them to sit still and read for 
a short time. Thus a change of work will sometimes 
take the place of play, because it exercises different parts 
of the body. 




PHYSICAL EXERCISE 



47 



60. The Kind of Exercise needed. To keep well and 
strong we do not need to do great feats of strength, or 
even to increase very much the size of our muscles ; but 
the main thing is to take moderate exercise of some kind 
every day. 

We can easily understand that much depends upon 
our daily work. A man ill with indigestion once con- 
sulted a doc- 
tor, and was 
advised to 
walk several 
miles a day. 
When the 
patient told 
the doctor 
that he was a 
letter carrier, 
the physician 
gave him 
other advice. 

Teachers, 




FIG. 46. Bicycling 



students, printers, and clerks in stores often suffer from 
lack of outdoor exercise, while teamsters, mechanics, and 
farmers rarely need any more exercise than they have 
in their occupation. Every sensible person must decide 
for himself what kind of exercise is best suited to his 
own needs. 



48 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

61. Getting too Much Exercise. It is very plain that 
our muscles need regular exercise. It is also important 
to remember that we must not get overtired in taking 
exercise. Children, as well as older folks, sometimes 
do themselves more harm than good by exercising after 
they have become tired. Young folks soon become cross, 
peevish, and nervous, and are unfit for study at school. 
This may be as true of those who get overtired in help- 
ing in household work as it is of those who overdo in 
playing basket ball, tennis, or football. 

62. Physical Exercises at Home. The graceful physical 
exercises which are practiced in so many of our schools 
and gymnasiums are especially useful and healthful, and 
should be more generally used in our homes. Children 
should be taught, both at home and in school, the use of 
light wooden dumb-bells, light clubs, or dumb-bell wands. 

The various " health exercisers " so widely used at the 
present time are useful helps in taking exercise in one's 
room. They are inexpensive, convenient, and easily ad- 
justed. They are always used with a real benefit. 

A daily exercise of ten minutes before breakfast and 
at bedtime will greatly aid to develop feeble and narrow 
chests, and to check a tendency to curvature of the spine 
and round shoulders, which is so common with growing 
children. Such physical training, if properly and patiently 
carried on, will give grace and freedom of movement as 
well as strength and vigor to all parts of the body. 



PHYSICAL EXERCISE 49 

63. Physical Exercises in Schools. Safe, simple, and 
inexpensive physical exercises can be easily used in any 
schoolroom. Teachers and pupils should look for them 
as a matter of course, just as they would for a lesson in 
arithmetic or geography. 

Such exercises, if rightly directed, are interesting and 
profitable. They will go far towards giving the pupils 
an erect and healthy carriage. 

Physical exercises, if followed up as steadily and faith- 
fully as other lessons, will in time increase the size and 
the strength of the muscles. They will make many a 
round-shouldered boy or girl straight, increase the size 
of the chest, and so lessen the risk of having a curved 
spine, rounded shoulders, a delicate throat, and weak 
lungs. 

Will such exercises take too much time from your 
lessons or bother you about studying them ? No, indeed. 
It is found that children go back to their lessons fresher 
and brighter after having the short rest from the regular 
studies. 

64. Helps in Indoor Exercises. A variety of exercises 
can be practiced at home or in the schoolroom at the cost 
of only a few cents for apparatus. Good results are 
sure to follow if these exercises are faithfully practiced. 
Saw off the handle of an old hoe or broom. This will 
make an excellent wand. A pair of wooden dumb-bells 
costs only a trifling sum. 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



With simple gymnastic exercises, a wand, and a pair 
of light dumb-bells, we have the means of securing all 
the indoor physical training ever needed to make shapely 
and enduring bodies. 

65. The Use of "Health Exercisers." At the proper 
time children should be taught to use a "health exer- 
ciser " of standard make. This useful apparatus may be 

readily put up in a few 
moments at any conven- 
ient place about the house. 
Such apparatus is so cheap 
that all but the very poor 
can own it as readily as the 
rich. Every boy and girl 
should use one of these 
exercisers half an hour 
every day, especially dur- 
ing the winter months, 
for the health, strength, 
and grace it brings. 

66. How Deep Breathing 
does good. Deep breath- 
ing plays an important 
part in every kind of 
physical training. Boys and girls, as well as older 
people, should be taught to take long, deep breaths. 
Let us read how it is done. 




FIG. 47. Schoolgirl practicing on 
a Health Exerciser 



PHYSICAL EXERCISE 



While standing or sitting slowly fill the lungs. Hold 
the breath for a few seconds, then slowly breathe out. 
This tends after a time to make the chest larger and the 
lungs stronger, especially when com- 
bined with regular dumb-bell exercises. 

Again, proper breathing helps to 
guard us against colds, coughs, and 
other chest troubles. Deep breathing 
also causes the blood to flow faster. 
We feel warmer in the coldest weather 
after breathing deeply, even if we are 
thinly clad. 

A shrewd doctor says that he once 
had good reason to remember this fact. 
One night, when he felt half frozen, he 
began taking deep^breaths, keeping the 
air in his lungs as long as possible. 
The result was that he was comfortable 
in a few minutes. 

67. Hints on Proper Breathing. - 
Proper breathing has much to do with 
keeping our bodies in sound and vigor- 
ous health. It is very important that every one, especially 
pupils at school, should be taught to breathe properly. 

Did .you ever watch a child breathe during sleep? If 
so, you must have noticed that the breath is long and 
deep if the sleeper is in a natural position. 




FIG. 48. School- 
girl practicing 
Wand Exercises 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



What must we do to breathe properly? In the first 
place, pure air is really necessary. Exercise in a close 
and badly ventilated room is of little benefit, for the lungs 

are then forced to take 
in foul air. 

The doors and win- 
dows of the school- 
room should be freely 
opened during exer- 
cise, so that the chil- 
dren may have plenty 
of pure, fresh air. 

We should get into 
the habit of breathing 
at all times through 
the nose. This is espe- 
cially necessary in cold 




FIG. 49. Schoolgirl practicing Light 
Gymnastic Exercises 



weather, so that the air may be warmed before it is 
taken into the throat and lungs. 

Are you bothered with shortness of breath when you 
begin any brisk exercise, like running or leaping ? The 
reason may be because you have never been trained to 
breathe properly. Practice filling your lungs with fresh, 
pure air and taking long, deep breaths. 

68. Various Kinds of Useful Exercises. Walking out 
of doors is perhaps the most convenient of all exercises. 
It takes us into the open air and the bright sunlight ; it 



PHYSICAL EXERCISE 



gives vigor to many important muscles of the chest, the 
abdomen, and the limbs. 

With a brisk walk every day in the open air no one 
need suffer from lack of proper exercise. While walk- 
ing, we should practice deep breathing. 

Running, leaping, climbing, and other vigorous sports 
are excellent exercises if we do not get overtired. Base- 
ball and football are 
severe exercises and 
demand skill and 
adroitness of action. 

Rowing is well 
suited to most persons 
of either sex. Horse- 
back riding, golf, 
basket ball, coasting, 
swimming, and skating 
are important helps in 
increasing bodily vigor. 

69. How to have 
Broad Shoulders and a 
Full Chest. Why is 
it that some people 

have SUCh narrow FIG. 50. Schoolgirl practicing t 

Chests, SUCh round Dumb-Bell Exercises 

shoulders, arid stoop over so much when they walk? 
Their daily work may have much to do with it. A 




54 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

workman at his bench, a clerk in the store, or a boy or 
girl at the school desk is almost sure to have round 
shoulders unless a correct position is kept. 

The trouble is that the muscles of the back are not 
used enough. The way to correct this habit of bending 
over is to practice sitting and standing erect, to take long, 
deep breaths, and to exercise the proper muscles while in 
a correct position. 

Dumb-bell or chest-weight exercises alone, if properly 
and regularly taken, will soon make the chest and arms 
large and well shaped, the shoulders square and firm, 
and the back strong and straight. 

70. The Best Time to take Exercise. Moderate exer- 
cise is healthful at almost any time. After a full meal, 
as the stomach is busily at work digesting food, severe 
exercise may hinder its action. 

The evening is not the best time for brisk exercise, 
because one is usually tired after the work of the day. 

A moderate amount of exercise can be safely taken 
before breakfast, after the morning's bath, provided a glass 
of milk is drunk or a bit of plain food is eaten first. 

A brisk walk just before bedtime for those who study 
hard or are disposed to worry will do much to quiet the 
excited nerves and thus induce sound sleep. 

71. Improper Positions in the Schoolroom. How often 
we see boys and girls sitting or standing in an improper 
position in the schoolroom ! The seats and desks are 



PHYSICAL EXERCISE 



55 






FIG. 51. Positions in Standing. (Based upon photographs of a 
sixth-grade pupil which were taken in a school gymnasium) 

A. This is a position often taken in the schoolroom by boys and girls. The 

right leg supports the trunk, and the left leg is thrown out as a brace. 
The left hip is lowered and the left shoulder raised. This position tends 
to bend the spine to the left and displace the intestines and other inter- 
nal organs to the right. No good teacher will allow pupils to take such 
a faulty position. 

B. In this position the trunk is well balanced on both legs, with neither of 

the heels in advance of the other. The hips are drawn back, the chest 
thrown forward, the head is a trifle back, and the weight is well poised 
on the balls of the feet. This is a correct position for standing, but one 
which the pupil will not keep long. It soon becomes tiresome, as both 
legs are put to the same muscular tension. 

C. This is the best position to be taken in long standing as a change from 

that taken in B. As one foot is somewhat in advance, the weight of the 
body can be easily shifted from one leg to the other, thus giving the 
needed relief and change to the muscles. 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



often so ill fitted to those who are using them that they 
invite postures which tend to cause bodily deformities. 

It was discovered a few 
years ago that one fifth of 
all the girls in the gram- 
mar grades of a large city 
were round-shouldered as 
a result of bad positions 
due to defective desks and 
seats. Pupils who differed 
seven years in age and 
nearly two feet in height 
were seated at desks and 
in chairs of exactly the 
same size. Out of a 
hundred girls in another 
school only one fifth when 
sitting back in their seats 
could touch the floor with 
their heels. 
Even with improved and 




FIG. 52. An Incorrect Position at 
a School Desk 



This position is frequently seen in the 
schoolroom. This pupil has the use 
of an adjustable desk and seat, but 
because he is tired or indolent he has 
slipped forward in his seat. He is rest- 
ing nearly his whole weight on the end 11 v 111 -i 
of the backbone and the shoulder well-adjUSted desks, pupils 

blades. Such a posture, among other gOOn grOW tired of One 
things, tends to make the pupil round . 

shouldered and to produce a backward position and readily take 
curve in the backbone T^ 

improper postures. 1 he 

fault is by no means always with the desks and seats. 
Pupils are sometimes so busy at their books and at 



PHYSICAL EXERCISE 



57 



other times are so overtired, lazy, or careless that they 
assume injurious positions. 

Improper positions in standing are often seen in the 
schoolroom. These postures are not so harmful as those 
taken in sitting, because 
they are usually kept for 
a much shorter time. 

72. Exercises to give 
Relief and to correct Im- 
proper Positions. Pupils 
should not be kept at their 
desks until they are so 
cramped and overtired 
that they cannot keep a 
proper position. The 
trouble is that some mus- 
cles are not used enough, 
while a few are used -for 

tOO long a time. How FIG. 53. A Correct Position at 

a School Desk 




shall we get some relief 
and a change both for the 
overworked and the in- 
active muscles? Besides 
the recess, there should be 
frequent short periods of rest from standing or sitting 
at the desks. These periods should be used for some 
sort of physical exercises which will give relief to the 



In this position the pupil sits erect, rest- 
ing the bones of the pelvis squarely on 
the seat. The head is so poised that the 
line of direction is brought within the 
line which joins the bones of the pelvis 
resting on the seat 



58 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

overtired muscles, bring into play muscles not used at 
the desk, and tend to correct habits of wrong positions. 

Parents, as well as teachers, should take the greatest 
care to prevent the improper positions which children 
are apt to take, both at home and in school, from 
becoming fixed habits. For instance, how often we see 
boys and girls get into the habit of sitting at the school 
desk, or in an easy-chair, with one leg crossed over the 
other. How often may groups of girls be seen on their 
way to and from school carrying text-books propped upon 
the left hip. This in time causes a twist of the spine 
with a curve toward the left. 

73. Hints on taking Exercise. The time when we feel 
least like taking exercise is usually the time when we most 
need it. Tired people often shrink from the very exercise 
they should seek. No kind of work about the shop, 
house, or farm develops the body equally. This is the 
real reason why everybody needs to have regular drill 
in some form of physical exercise. 

Violent exercises that strain the body often do more 
harm than good. Feats of strength or skill should not be 
made a feature'of the drill at home or in the schoolroom. 

Clothing should be worn that will allow free play to 
all muscles of the body. It should be light, loose, and 
made of porous material. 

Extra clothing should be worn after prolonged exer- 
cise. There is always danger of taking cold in standing 



PHYSICAL EXERCISE 59 

about in the open air if the clothing is damp with sweat. 
When it is convenient the body should be rubbed down 
thoroughly after severe exercise, and the clothing changed. 

74. Alcoholic Beverages and Tobacco forbidden in Gym- 
nastic Work. A gymnasium or similar place for the 
physical training of young people is now found in almost 
every large town. Furnished as it is with excellent appa- 
ratus, suitable bathing facilities, ample dressing-rooms, 
and other conveniences, it is well fitted not only to ben- 
efit but also to delight all who are able to use it. 

Physical instructors look sharply after the daily living 
of their pupils. A complete record is kept of bodily 
measurements, progress in the use of apparatus, the con- 
dition of the heart and lungs, and many other details 
which concern good health, Instructors advise and urge 
those under their ^charge to secure a goodly amount of 
sleep, to take frequent baths, to wear proper clothing, to 
eat wholesome food ; and are otherwise watchful in sug- 
gesting those things which underlie sound health. 

Such teachers rightly forbid the use of tobacco and 
alcoholic drinks, as do those who train men for profes- 
sional sports. They know from experience that those 
who become addicted to such habits cannot long make 
any real progress in systematic physical culture. Such 
a rule is more strictly enforced with those young men 
who are training for athletic contests, yet it applies quite 
as well to those who exercise only to keep well and strong. 



60 HOW TO KEEP WELL 



QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW 

1. What is the best way to keep a machine in good order ? 

2. How may the body be compared to a clock ? 

3. What is the first step towards physical culture ? 

4. Why do we need to take regular physical exercise ? 

5. What makes the muscles of some people strong and firm ? 

6. What may be the effect of proper use of the eyes on the sight ? 

7. How does change of work affect the muscles ? . Illustrate. 

8. What kind of exercise is good for boys and girls ? 

9. What does an old adage say ? Illustrate. 

10. What do we not need to do to keep well and strong ? 

11. How does the kind of exercise one should take depend upon 
his daily work ? 

12. How many illustrations of this principle can you remember ? 

13. What are some of the ill effects of taking too much exercise ? 

14. What can you say about taking physical exercises at home ? 

15. How may " health exercisers " serve as useful helps ? 

16. What is the value of taking physical exercises in school ? 

17. What inexpensive but useful apparatus may be helpful in 
taking exercise at home or in school ? 

18. What is deep breathing, and what useful purpose does it serve ? 

19. What must we do to breathe properly ? 

20. What are some of the more common kinds of useful physical 
exercises ? 

21. How may we have broad shoulders and a full chest ? 

22. Why are improper positions often taken by pupils in the 
schoolroom ? 

23. How may the habit of taking harmful postures in the school- 
room be corrected ? 

24. What rules should be followed in taking exercise ? 

25. How does the use of tobacco and alcoholic drink interfere 
with physical exercise ? 



CHAPTER V 

WHAT WE EAT AND DRINK 

75. Why we need Food. Food is to our bodily machine 
what coal, wood, and oil are to the engine. We move 
from place to place and are kept warm because a slow 
fire is always burning within us. This fire, like that of 
the locomotive, must have fuel and air. Without them 
the fire in the engine would soon go out. The same is 
true of our bodies. Without fresh air and fuel every day 
of our lives the slow fire within us would go out and we 
should soon wasted way and die. 

76. Wear and Tear of the Body. We all know that 
every part of the steam engine is always wearing out. 
It is also the same with our bodies. They are all the 
time wearing away. 

Every beat of the heart, every movement of a muscle, 
the wink of an eyelid, and the twist of the tongue, even 
every word we speak, all these lead to waste. Every 
step we take, every moment we breathe, even every time 
we think, wastes a small part of our bodies. In short, 
we are working and wasting all the time, at the expense 
of some portion of the body. 

61 



62 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

77. Why we do not waste away. Why do our bodies 
not waste away completely? We weighed this morning 
just as much as we did three days ago; some of us, we 
hope, a little more. How can this be ? Why, we have 
been doing something else, part of the day, besides work- 
ing and wasting. This something was to eat our dinner 
yesterday and our breakfast to-day. 

The whole story in a nutshell is this. What we eat 
and drink takes the place of what is used up or wasted. 
If we are young and growing we must take in a little 
more than the actual waste. 

In brief, nearly all this waste is made good by what 
we eat and what we drink. The rest of the waste is 
made up from the air we breathe. 

78. The Wonderful Change made in the Food we eat. 
The food we eat, you may think, does not look much 
like our bodies, of which it is to become a part. Per- 
haps you may think the meat is rather like it ; but how 
about bread, milk, butter, and potatoes? 

How are all these things turned into flesh, hair, and 
bone? How, indeed, do they ever get to them, to 
the tips of our ringers and toes, to our eyelids, to our 
brain, in fact, to every nook and cranny of our bodies? 

It can be told in four words : the blood carries them. 

The blood, as we shall learn later, carries nourishment 
to every part of the body. In brief, as the Scriptures 
say, " The blood is the life." 



WHAT WE EAT AND DRINK 



/I. PROTEIDS. 
1 a STARCHES WIDSVGARS. 
)DSTUrrSJAFATS AND OILS. 
/U.AAIAOAL FOODS. 



In Chapter VII we shall learn a few things about this 
wonderful change of food into blood. 

79. What the Body must have for its Food. Let us 
stop for a moment and remind ourselves that the whole 
world is made up of what men of science call elements 
and their compounds. Of the seventy different elements 
such as oxygen, car- 
bon, lime, sulphur, 

and iron, only about 
a dozen are found in 
the human body. 

Now, if our bodies 
are built up of these 
elements in their 
various forms we can 
well see that the food 
which we eat must be 
made up of the same 
substances. If it were 
not so we should soon 
waste away and die. 

80. Four Great Classes of Food Materials. It will help 
us to understand much better the subject of foods and 
their digestion if we arrange them into the four great 
classes: (i) proteids (substances similar to the white of an 
egg), (2) starches and sugars, (3) fats and oils, (4) mineral 
foods (water and salts). 



FIG. 54. A Schoolboy at the Blackboard 
describing the Four Great Classes of Food 

NOTE. The blackboard, as well as notebooks, 
may be utilized by pupils for tables and 
analyses of general topics in the study of 
physiology as profitably as it is used in arith- 
metic or language work 



64 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

To these groups or classes of food the name of food 
materials or food stuffs has been given. Each of them 
is made by the combination of several elements. 

81. The Proteids. As the proteids alone contain the 
highly important element known as nitrogen, they form 
a group by themselves. They are often spoken of as 
nitrogenous foods. 

The type of this class of foods is egg albumen, which 
we all know as the white of an egg. The chief proteids 
we eat are the animal proteids found in lean meat, the 
white of eggs, and the curd of milk. Then there are the 
vegetable proteids found in corn, oatmeal, wheat flour, 
peas, and beans. 

Experiments Put a tablespoonf ul of water into a test tube, adding 

a few drops of the raw white of egg. On heating the tube over a 
lamp, the mixture will turn white and become thicker. The white of 
egg is a type of a group of proteids. Heat has the power to thicken 
or coagulate proteid. 

After tying a small piece of wheat-flour dough into a cotton hand- 
kerchief, knead it under water. The starch is soon washed out, leav- 
ing the sticky mass of gluten on the cloth. Gluten is made up in part 
of a form of proteid. 

If we heat a little sweet milk in a test tube, it will not coagulate 
or curdle. If we add a few drops of vinegar and gently shake, the 
milk curdles and separates into a solid curd which is the chief pro- 
teid of milk, and fat and a yellowish fluid known as whey. 

What need of the body do the proteids supply ? Let 
us remember it, they furnish the material from which 
every part of the body is built up and repaired. They 



WHAT WE EAT AND DRINK 65 

also help supply heat to keep the body warm. In fact, 
the proteids are the most important of all the food stuffs. 

82. The Starches and Sugars. The starches and sugars 
form a large part of the plants commonly used as food. 
Wheat, barley, rye, oats, rice, corn, arrowroot, sago, and 
potatoes are rich in starch. 

We might, perhaps, think that all our sugar comes from 
sugar cane and beets, and must be bought of the grocer; 
but this is not the case. There is a little sugar in wheat, 
and a great deal in some other things we eat, such as 
peas, oatmeal, honey, milk, ripe bananas, grapes, and 
watermelons. 

83. How Starch is changed into Sugar. When starch 
is well chewed it is changed into sugar by the action of 
the saliva. This is why a piece of bread tastes sweeter 
after it has been in the mouth for a few minutes. 

Some people like the crust of bread, or the heel of 
a loaf, especially if it is soaked in milk or tea. Why? 
Because it is sweet ; and it is sweet because, having been 
baked hard, the starch has been partly changed into 
sugar. 

We seldom, however, keep food in the mouth long 
enough to change all the starch into sugar. This is done 
further along in the process of digestion, as we shall 
learn later. 

The chief use of the starches and sugars is to build 
up the body and help keep it warm. 



66 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

84. The Fats. Some people, especially children, do 
not like fat ; but we all need fat in one form or another. 
One of the best ways of getting this kind of food is to 
use cream and butter with the foods that need them. 
Other fatty foods are olive oil and some of the fatty 
meats. Fat is chiefly a heat-giving food. 

85. Fat as a Favorite Article of Diet. Fatty foods are 
much used by people who live in cold countries. The 
Eskimos eat large quantities of blubber. The children 
of the far North, it is said, have as keen a relish for 
tallow candles as our boys and girls have for ice cream. 

Sir John Franklin once tried to find out how much 
fat an Eskimo boy would eat. Several pounds of can- 
dles quickly disappeared, and Sir John, feeling alarmed 
for his stores, closed the experiment with a large piece 
of fat pork. 

Oil is a luxury greedily devoured by the northern 
races, as was amusingly proved in a French seaport town 
many years ago. The town was lighted with whale-oil 
lamps, and it was noticed that they went out early for 
several successive nights. At last it was discovered 
that some Russian sailors in the harbor climbed the 
lamp-posts and drank the oil. 

86. The Mineral Foods. All the foods we have just 
studied come from living things, as animals and vege- 
tables. Besides these, we eat certain things which are 
called mineral foods. 



WHAT WE EAT AND DRINK 67 

First of all, water is a mineral food; but this will be 
described more fully in Section 89. 

87. Common Salt. We cannot do without common 
salt as an article of food. The lower animals like it too. 
Farmers put lumps of salt in their fields for the sheep and 
cows to eat. Cattle are fond of the salty taste of the coarse 
grass which grows on the marshes near the seashore. 

The early settlers of Kentucky followed the well- 
beaten trails made by thousands of buffaloes as they 
tramped to and fro for many years through the vast 
wilderness to the salt licks. 

Men have risked their lives to get even a taste of salt. 
In olden times prisoners were punished by feeding them 
on bread alone, and that made without salt. In most 
countries it is plentiful and cheap, while in others it is 
very hard to get. Cakes of salt have even been used 
for money. 

Salt has always been the symbol of life, hospitality, 
and wisdom ; and the Scriptures tell us, " Salt is good. . . . 
Have salt in yourselves, and have peace one with another." 

How much salt do you suppose we have in our bodies ? 
About half a pound, it is said, but we are all the time 
getting rid of it. The sweat, we know, contains salt; 
and it is also found in the tears. Even if we did not 
add salt to our food we should still get some, for many 
of the things we eat, as meat, oatmeal, and cheese, con- 
tain a little of it. 



68 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

88. Some Other Salts. We need other salts to help 
keep our bodies in good order. Except common salt 
and water, mineral substances are used only when com- 
bined with other foods. These are chiefly the salts of 
potash, found in various vegetables and fruits. Years 
ago sailors who were forced to go on long voyages with- 
out fresh vegetables often died from a dread disease 
called scurvy. Now that vessels are able to. carry various 
canned and bottled goods the disease is less common. 

Everybody, but especially a growing child, needs 
salts of lime to make the bones harder and stronger. 
One reason why children should eat plenty of bread and 
milk is that those foods contain these salts. 

Should you think that we need any iron in our food ? 
Well, we do; for iron helps to make good blood and 
to give it a bright red color. Iron in small amounts is 
found in many of the foods we eat. It is said that there 
is as much iron in the whole body as there is in four 
carpet tacks. 

89. Water as a Food. Pure water is our great natural 
drink. Many savage nations know no other drink, and 
require no other. Not only is the greater part of our 
drink water, but bread, meat, potatoes, fruits, and other 
foods also contain water, which makes them easy to 
digest. Nearly three fourths of the weight of our body 
is made up of water. How important it is, then, to 
have the water we drink pure and fresh! 



WHAT WE EAT AND DRINK 69 

The body is all the time getting rid of a great deal of 
water nearly two quarts every day through the skin, 
the lungs, and the kidneys ; hence we must take in water 
every day besides what we drink, to make up for this loss. 

Certain foods, as lettuce, cabbages, apples, fish, potatoes, 
and lean meat, are more than three fourths water. 

Water alone will prolong life for a time if nothing else 
can be had. Men have succeeded in living forty days or 
longer without taking any other food or drink than water. 
There is a well-known case of a miner who lived twenty- 
three days buried in a coal mine, without swallowing any- 
thing but water, sucked through a straw. 

90. Various Kinds of Bread. Bread is " the staff of 
life." Without it we should indeed be poorly off. There 
is no single food which meets so many real wants of the 
body as does bread. It is made from the flour of many 
kinds of cereals, such as wheat, oats, barley, rye, and 
Indian corn. In our country it is nearly always made 
from corn and wheat. 

Wheat flour contains starch, sugar, and a kind of pro- 
teid the sticky or gluey part of grain called gluten. 
Wheat contains nearly everything necessary to give 
warmth and strength to our bodies, except fat. When 
we eat bread and butter and drink milk with them we 
are using most wholesome and nutritious articles of diet. 

91. Other Cereals and Fruits. Corn meal is a highly 
nutritious article of food. So is oatmeal and milk. 



70 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

Rice is rich in starch, but it is one of the least valu- 
able of the cereals. It is, however, the chief cereal used 
as a food in some parts of Asia. 

Peas and beans contain more of the material that 
builds up the body than any of the cereals, and are as 
rich in starch as is wheat flour. 

Common or Irish potatoes contain much starch and 
are important and favorite articles of diet, although they 
are more than two thirds water. They are cheap and 
easily digested. Sweet potatoes, rich in starch and 
sugar, are highly prized. 

Dried fruits, such as dates, figs, and raisins, contain 
much proteid, sugar, and starch. Nuts are rich in all 
the food materials, including fat. 

Ripe fruits, such as strawberries, apples, pears, bananas, 
peaches, melons, grapes, and oranges, are chiefly used 
for their agreeable flavor. 

Garden vegetables, as lettuce, cucumbers, spinach, 
celery, tomatoes, and stringed beans, do not help much 
to build up the body. They are, however, widely used, 
for they are rich in salts and give a relish to other foods. 

92. Milk and Eggs. Among animal foods milk is the 
simplest and best. It is, indeed, a model food. It has 
flesh-forming, bone-making, and heat-giving material in 
the right proportions, especially for children. 

What a wonderful thing is an egg ! It has a great 
amount of nutriment packed away in a very small space. 



WHAT WE EAT AND DRINK 71 

93. Meats and Other Foods. The most common meats 
are beef, mutton, lamb, veal, and pork. They are good 
foods for building up the body; they contain more or 
less fat. Veal and pork are often not easily digested. 

Certain people in South America live altogether on 
meat. Two famous Arctic explorers, when seeking the 
North Pole, lived for months on meat and fat. 

Fish is a cheap and nourishing food. It contains 
nearly as much nutriment as beef or mutton. 

Poultry is easy to digest, and gives a great deal of 
nourishment, and is specially valuable as a food for the 
sick. 

Like all fats, butter is almost entirely a heat-giving and 
force-making food. Cheese is nutritious, but is often 
hard to digest. 

94. Tea and Coffee. The greater portion of almost 
every artificial drink is water, but various substances are 
mingled with it to give it a pleasant taste. Some of the 
most widely used drinks are tea, coffee, and cocoa. 

Tea should never be used when it is strong, or in large 
quantities. Hard-working people and others too often 
make their meals of too little bread and meat and too 
many cups of strong tea. Such a habit often results 
in headache, indigestion, heartburn, and wakefulness at 
night. After a time, strong tea may weaken the action 
of the heart, and produce what is known as the " tea- 
drinker's heart." 



72 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

Coffee and tea are hurtful for boys and girls. Doubt- 
less everybody would be in better health without using 
these two popular drinks. 

95. Ice Water and Other Drinks. We sometimes see 
people, overheated and overtired, drink large quantities 
of ice water. Such a foolish practice often leads to seri- 
ous results. Ice water should be sipped slowly, a little 
at a time. 

Men who are obliged to work in very hot places, as 
boiler rooms and foundries, get great relief from the 
intense heat by drinking a mixture of oatmeal and cold 
water. 

There are many kinds of popular drinks exposed for 
sale, especially during hot weather. They are usually 
made of water flavored with fruit syrups, roots, and herbs, 
and slightly charged with carbonic acid gas. They are 
commonly known as soda waters. These drinks are 
refreshing, and when used with good sense have no ill 
effects. Root beers which are made with yeast and fer- 
mented contain alcohol and for that reason are to be 
avoided. 



WHAT WE EAT AND DRINK 73 



QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW 

1. If we compare the body to a locomotive, what part does food 
play? 

2. What two things must the body, as well as the engine, have 
to keep it in running order ? 

3. How are our bodies working and wasting all the time ? 

4. Why do not our bodies waste away ? 

5. What are some of the wonderful changes made in the food 
we eat ? 

6. What, in a general way, must the body have for its food ? 

7. What are the four great classes of foods ? 

8. What are proteids, and what are their chief kinds ? 

9. What want do the proteids supply ? 

10. From what class of plants do we get the starches ? 

11. What plants supply us with the sugars? 

12. What do the starches and sugars supply the body ? 

13. How do we get our supply of fats ? 

14. With what peoples are fats a favorite article of diet ? 

15. What examples can you give to illustrate this fact ? 

16. What do the fats supply the body ? 

17. What are mineral foods ? 

18. What can you tell of the use of common salt as a food ? 

19. What other forms of salt do we need as food ? 

20. What can you say of water as an article of diet ? 

21. What are the various kinds of breads used as food ? 

22. Mention other cereals and the more common fruits and vege- 
tables that supply us with a variety of food. 

23. How are meat, fish, and poultry used as food ? 

24. What are some of the ill effects of drinking tea ? 

25. What cautions can you give as to the use of ice water and 
other drinks? 



CHAPTER VI 

ORIGIN AND NATURE OF FERMENTED DRINKS 

96. Sweet Apple Juice. When the juice of apples is 
first pressed out it is sweet. A kind of sugar forms in 
apples while they are ripening. This gives the juice its 
sweet taste. Very soon after the apple juice is pressed 
out, unless it is kept very cold or boiled and sealed in 
air-tight jars, it begins to change and to lose its sweet- 
ness. Why? Because the sugar of 
the juice is being changed into some- 
thing which is not sweet, but strong 
and poisonous. 
FIG. 55. Yeast from 97. Yeast. What causes the apple 

a Dried Yeast Cake j uice to change p It is something SO 

small that it can be seen only by the aid of a microscope. 
You have all seen the yeast that is used in making 
bread. You would not think it, but yeast is really com- 
posed of many very tiny plants. Similar tiny plants, 
called wild yeast, are found in the air and on the skins 
and stems of fruit. When the apples are ground and 
pressed some of these wild yeast plants are washed into 
the juice. If our eyes were strong enough, we might 
see them on the outside of the apples before they are 

74 




ORIGIN AND NATURE OF FERMENTED DRINKS 



75 



ground, or floating about in the air ready to fall into 
the juice as soon as it is pressed out. 

98. What happens to the Yeast Plant. A single yeast 
plant by itself could not do much harm, but when one 
of them gets into fruit juice in a moderately warm air it 
begins rapidly to produce new plants like itself. Thus 
in a few hours after the juice is pressed out, countless 
numbers of yeast plants will be found in it. Each of 
these soon puts out little buds 

that quickly become new plants, 
while at the same time they 
change the sugar of the juice 
into two substances entirely dif- 
ferent from sugar. 

The gas which you can see 
coming up out of the liquid in 
little bubbles is one of these sub- 
stances ; the other is alcohol. You do not see the alcohol 
because it mixes with the apple juice and remains in it. 

99. Alcohol a Poison. What is a poison ? When we 
call a substance a poison we do not mean that it will 
always kill a person at once if he takes it, nor indeed 
that it will necessarily kill him at all. We sometimes 
see a person poisoned by touching the poison ivy plant, 
or from a bee sting, but we do not expect to see the 
person drop down dead from the effects. What, then, do 
we mean by a poison ? We mean this : 




FIG. 56. The Same Yeast 
after a Few Hours' Growth 



7 6 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 




A poison is any substance which, when absorbed into 
the blood, will injure health or destroy life. Alcohol is 
such a poison. 

100. Alcohol contrasted with Water. Alcohol looks like 
water, but its nature is very different. Water will not 
burn ; alcohol will. Water poured on a plant will cause 
it to grow and thrive; alcohol poured on a plant will 

kill it. A fish, which 
lives all its life in 
water, would die at 
once if put into alco- 
hol. Every part of 
our bodies needs 
water; we should 
soon die if we could 
not get it. No part 
of the body needs 
alcohol ; thousands of 
people are made ill or 
die every year from taking the various kinds of intoxi- 
cating liquors into their bodies. 

Water softens our food and helps to digest it; alco- 
hol hardens many kinds of food. Water soothes and 
refreshes the body, outside and inside. Alcohol inflames 
and irritates the delicate tissues of the body. Water 
quenches thirst ; alcohol creates thirst. It is the nature 
of alcohol to arouse in one who takes it a desire for more. 



FIG. 57. Growing Yeast Cells, showing 
Method of budding and forming Groups 
of Cells 

Each bud appears as a little swelling on the 
side of the larger cell, as seen in a and b. 
In c the little bud has grown to be nearly 
as large as the parent cell. The little buds 
grow one after another, making irregular 
shaped groups, as shown in d 



ORIGIN AND NATURE OF FERMENTED DRINKS 77 



Experiments. Into a common test tube or any glass vial place a 
solution made by mixing one teaspoonful of molasses with ten tea- 
spoonfuls of water. Rub up a little compressed yeast in water and 
put a few drops into the test tube. Set aside in a warm place and let 
it stand for about twenty-four hours. At the 
end of this time a vigorous fermentation will 
be seen. The liquid will have become some- 
what cloudy, numerous bubbles can be seen 
rising through it, a froth forms on top, and a 
mass of sediment soon collects at the bottom. 
The bubbles are the gas (carbon dioxide) 
which is escaping into the air, the sediment at 
the bottom is the growing mass of yeast, and 
the alcohol, which looks like water, is dissolved 
in the liquid and is of course invisible. 




Prepare two tubes, as shown in Fig. 58. In 
tube a place molasses and water with several 
drops of yeast, as in the last experiment. Put 
the cork in place and insert the other end of 
the tube into a second tube underneath the 
surface of some clear limewater, as shown in 
the figure. Set aside in a warm place until vig- 
orous fermentation occurs. Note the bubbles 
of gas that arise from the fermenting tube and 
bubble up through the limewater. The lime- 
water soon becomes turbid, showing that the gas 
contains carbon dioxide. CONN'S Bacteria, 
Yeasts, and Molds, p. 274. 



.-gas 



T v ? J> 



FIG. 58. Fermenting 
Solution of Molasses 

Showing at a the grow- 
ing yeast with the bub- 
bles of gas arising, and 
also the arrangement 
for conducting the gas 
underneath limewater 
at l>, for the purpose of 
determining the nature 
of the gas 



101. The Appetite for Alcohol. 
Alcohol has the power to create an 
appetite which will lead a man to sacrifice his health, 
property, ability to work, the respect of his friends, and 
everything that makes life worth living. 



78 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

This appetite or craving for alcohol is not like the 
ordinary appetite for food. The appetite for food is a 
natural appetite. When enough food is taken to supply 
the wants of the body for the time, the appetite is satis- 
fied. The same is true of thirst. When enough water 
is drunk to supply the need of the body in health, no 
more is wanted. Alcoholic drink taken to satisfy the 
appetite for alcohol usually causes a craving for more. 

102. The Alcohol Habit. Men who have devoted years 
trying to rescue those who have become victims of the 
appetite for alcohol say that, with all their efforts, only 
a few are finally saved. Men who have abstained for 
months, or even years, may be suddenly overpowered by 
the slightest taste or even the smell of alcoholic drink. 

Drunkenness is due more to the nature of the drink 
than to the weak will of the drinker. The greatest weak- 
ness of the drinker is in beginning to take the drink that 
has the power to make him its slave. 

103. Alcohol as a Flavoring for Food. It is the custom 
of some housekeepers to use wine or brandy as a flavor- 
ing for jellies, pudding sauces, mince pies, and other deli- 
cacies. Knowing the nature of alcohol, it is easy to see 
the dangers of such a practice. It may create a taste for 
alcoholic drinks, or increase the appetite in one who is 
trying to overcome it. 

104. The Law of Fermentation. We have seen how 
the yeast plant changes sugar in a sweet fruit or plant 



ORIGIN AND NATURE OF FERMENTED DRINKS 79 



juice to alcohol. This process is called vinous fermen- 
tation, and the tiny plants that cause it are sometimes 
called ferments. There are other kinds of fermentation 
produced by other kinds of ferments. Each fermenta- 
tion has its special kind of ferment, but one law holds 
good for every kind. It is this: 

Fermentation changes the nature of the substance fer- 
mented. 

Thus, if cider is left standing in a warm place, another 
kind of ferment gets into it and changes the alcohol 
into a new substance, entirely differ- 
ent from alcohol or sugar. This new 
substance is acetic acid, and the 
liquid containing it, which was first 
sweet apple juice, and then cider, 
is now vinegar. 

105. The Evils of Cider Drinking. - 
The fermented drink made from the FlG - 59-- Wild Yeast 

Plants, or Ferments, 

juice of apples is called cider. When found in the Juice of 

the juice is first pressed out it is 

said to be " sweet cider." As it grows 

older, more and more alcohol forms 

in it, and it is then said to be growing "hard." 

cider may contain as much as one tenth alcohol. 

A mistaken idea very commonly held is that cider only 
a few days. old contains such a very small quantity of 
alcohol as to be practically harmless. Experience proves 




Apples, and which 
cause the Fermenta- 
tion of Cider 



Hard 



8o HOW TO KEEP WELL 

that even such cider often has enough alcohol in it to 
arouse the thirst for stronger drinks in one who is trying 
to break off from their use, or to cause a liking for alco- 
holic drinks in one who has not formed the habit of tak- 
ing them. In moderately warm weather alcohol is found 
in cider in about six hours after it has been pressed out. 
We need not go far to find those who have been led to 
indulge in strong drink by cider. A little alcohol in 
cider or in any other drink may create an appetite for 
more. A marked trait of habitual hard-cider drinkers 
is a tendency to a surly and irritable disposition. 

106. Wine a Dangerous Drink. Ferments, or wild yeast 
plants, are found upon the skins and stems of grapes as 
they ripen. If the juice of the grapes is then pressed 
out, the yeast plants are washed into it, and turn the 
sugar of the juice into gas and alcohol. The gas will 
escape in bubbles, while the alcohol will remain in the 
liquid. Such a liquid is called wine. We do not see 
the alcohol in the wine ; but it is there, and can be sepa- 
rated from it, as we shall soon learn. We can also trace 
its presence by its effects upon those who drink the wine. 
The alcohol in wine, like that in cider, is capable of 
creating an appetite for more. 

107. Wine Drinking in Foreign Countries. In Persia, 
France, Switzerland, and other countries where wine 
is made, drunkenness is a great scourge, especially dur- 
ing the wine-making season. It has been claimed that. 



ORIGIN AND NATURE OF FERMENTED DRINKS 8 1 



the use of "light wines," i.e. wines containing only a 
small amount of alcohol, prevents drunkenness; but in 
countries where such " light wines " are almost as free 
as water, the evils resulting from their use show that 
there is little or no foundation for such a claim. 

108. A Common Error. It is a common error to sup- 
pose that, because grapes are good, the drink made by 
fermenting their juice is also 

good. We have learned that 
fermentation changes the 
nature of the substance fer- 
mented. Vinous fermenta- 
tion changes healthful grape 
juice into harmful wine by 
changing its sugar, which is 
a food, into alcohol, which is 
a poison. 

109. Malt Liquors. Fer- 
mented drinks containing 

alcohol are made from liquids having in them a certain 
kind of sugar like that in fruit juices. This kind of sugar 
can be obtained from starch by keeping the latter warm 
and moist for a certain time. Barley and other grains 
containing starch are therefore used to make one kind 
of fermented liquors called malt liquors. 

110. How Malt Liquors are made. In making malt 
liquors, barley or whatever grain is used, is kept warm 




FIG. 60. Wild Yeast Plants, or 
Ferments, found upon the Skin 
of a Grape, which are concerned 
in the Fermentation of Wine 



82 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

and moist until it begins to sprout, showing that its 
starch has turned to sugar. 

It is then heated to kill the sprouts, ground, and soaked 
in water; and in this way a sweet liquid is obtained. 
Yeast, which is one kind of ferment, is then put in, with 
hops, which give the liquid a bitter taste. The yeast 
changes the sugar of this grain- juice to alcohol and a 
gas. The gas bubbles up to the top, where it leaves 
a froth. The alcohol remains in the liquid, which is now 
called beer. 

111. Dangers of Beer Drinking. Beer is used as a drink 
by many people who do not understand its real nature, 
or who have learned its nature only after having formed 
such a liking for it that they cannot easily give it up. 
It has been called " liquid food " because it was thought 
that the substances which make the grain good for food 
remain in the beer. But, as we have seen, fermentation 
changes the nature of the sugar obtained from the 
starch of the grain; and in this change nearly all the 
food value of the grain is destroyed and alcohol is left 
in its place. The man who eats the bread he could buy 
for the price of a glass of beer, and drinks pure water, 
gets real nourishment and no poison, while if he drinks 
the beer, he gets little or no nourishment and some 
poison. 

112. Beer gives a False Appearance of Health. --The 
beer drinker's appearance is often as deceitful as his 



ORIGIN AND NATURE OF FERMENTED DRINKS 83 

drink. He looks plump and rosy, as if he were in per- 
fect health; but a little unusual exertion often brings 
out weaknesses which the perfectly healthy man does 
not show. The commander of one of the United States 
army posts said recently : " Several times within the last 
ten years I have noticed, when extra and continuous 
exertion has been required in marching, that in every 
instance the first men to drop out of the ranks and fall 
by the wayside have been the beer drinkers." 

113. Beer No Preventive of Drunkenness. It has been 
urged that a more general use of beer would prevent the 
drunkenness caused by drinking the liquors that contain 
more alcohol, such as rum, whisky, brandy, and gin. 
We have only to look to the countries where beer is 
used in nearly every family, to see that it is no preven- 
tive of drunkenness. True to its nature, the alcohol 
in the beer makes the drinker crave more beer to get 
more alcohol. In certain countries of Europe where 
beer and wine are almost universal beverages, the dis- 
astrous effects of alcohol upon the health of the people 
are becoming more and more apparent. 

114. Beer Drinking from a Moral Point of View. Facts 
gained from wide observation seem to show that the habit- 
ual use of large quantities of beer tends to deaden the 
conscience and blunt the finer sensibilities of the drinker. 

The fact $hat beer contains less alcohol than some 
other drinks is no argument in its favor when we 



84 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

remember that the alcohol in even the weakest beer may 
have the same power of creating an appetite for more 
that an equal quantity of alcohol in any other liquor 
has. The drinker is liable to be tempted by the weak- 
ness of the beer to increase his amount, thinking it is 
comparatively harmless. 

115. Fermentation in Bread Making. Fermentation is 
generally employed in making bread. The flour from 
which the bread is made contains a small quantity of 
free sugar. Yeast is mixed with the flour and water, 
and the dough is kept warm and moist until the yeast 
changes this free sugar to alcohol and gas. But the fer- 
mentation is soon stopped and the alcohol is driven out 
by the heat of the oven in which the bread is baked, 
while the gas, pushing its way up through the dough, 
makes the bread light. To get this light sponginess is 
the purpose for which the yeast is used. 

Thus no one needs to be afraid to eat bread raised 
with yeast, through fear of its containing alcohol, for 
well-baked bread contains no alcohol. We may be sure 
that bread never gave anybody an appetite for strong 
drink. 

116. Distilled Liquors. When water is heated to a cer- 
tain temperature it begins to turn into steam. How 
often do children watch the steam as it escapes from the 
nozzle of a boiling teakettle and floats away as vapor to 
cool off as drops of water on the cold window glass 1 



ORIGIN AND NATURE OF FERMENTED DRINKS 85 

Alcohol will turn to vapor at a lower temperature than 
water. Therefore, by heating a fermented liquid the 
alcohol in it can be readily driven off in the form of 
vapor. This is condensed in a cool receiver, and the 
result is a liquid containing much more alcohol than the 
one heated. Some water will follow the alcohol, for 
alcohol has a special liking for water. 

The process by which one liquid is separated from 
another by changing it into vapor by heat and afterwards 
condensing the vapor with cold is called distillation. 

The liquids which are obtained by this process are 
known as distilled liquors. 

Brandy is distilled in this way from wine; rum is 
distilled from the fermented juice of the sugar cane; 
whisky, from a fermented liquid usually made from corn 
or rye ; gin, from rye or barley. All distilled liquors 
contain a large proportion of alcohol, often as much as 
one half. Some distilled liquors may be made from 
wood, wine, or beer; others, from fermented tomatoes 
and corn ; but they are all alike in one very important 
respect, they are all narcotic poisons. They are there- 
fore capable of causing a far-reaching and baneful effect 
upon the health of those who have become addicted to 
their use. 



86 HOW TO KEEP WELL 



QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW 

1. What is meant by sweet apple juice ? 

2. What change takes place soon after the juice is pressed out? 

3. What causes the changes in the pressed-out fruit juices? 

4. What is yeast? 

5. Where are the yeast plants before the apples are ground ? 

6. Explain the action of yeast plants upon fruit juice. 

7. Define a poison. 

8. Mention the main points of contrast between alcohol and 
water. 

9. What is meant by the alcohol appetite ? 

10. How does it differ from a natural appetite ? 

11. What proves the strength of the alcohol appetite ? 

12. What dangers may arise from the use of alcohol as a flavoring 
in cooking ? 

13. What is the law of fermentation ? 

14. How is this illustrated when cider changes to vinegar ? 

15. What are some of the evils of cider drinking ? 

16. What changes the nature of the grape juice when wine is 
made ? 

17. Why is wine a dangerous drink? 

18. How does the use of wine in foreign lands illustrate this point ? 

19. Explain how beer is made. 

20. Show how the law of fermentation applies to the process of 
beer making. 

21. What are the dangers in drinking beer? 

22. How may beer drinking show its effects upon health ? 

23. What can you say of beer drinking from a moral point of view ? 

24. Show how bread is made by fermentation. 

25. What are distilled liquors ? Mention some of the more common 
kinds. 



CHAPTER VII 

DIGESTION, AND HOW IT GOES ON 

117. What is meant by Digestion. The blood not only 
carries food to every tiny part of the body to make up 
for the wear and tear, but it also brings back waste mat- 
ter from nearly every nook and corner. 

It is plain that the blood could not go on feeding the 
body unless it were itself nourished from some source 
outside of the body. This is done, for the most part, by 
what we eat and drink. 

In other words, the nourishing portion of our food, 
after it has gone through many changes, becomes at last 
a part of the blood. 

118. The Organs of Digestion. This wonderful process 
by which food is made ready to become a part of the 
blood is known as digestion. 

Those parts or organs of the body which have to do 
with bringing about this magical change in what we eat 
and drink are called the organs of digestion. 

It will make it easier for us to learn a few things about 
digestion if we study it in its three great steps, namely, 
those which take place in the mouth, in the stomach, 

and in the intestines. 

87 



88 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



119. What takes Place in the Mouth. The Teeth. The 

food is broken into pieces in the mouth by the teeth, 
valuable little jewels, of which we cannot be too careful. 

During our lifetime we have two sets of teeth. The 
first set, twenty in number, begins to appear when a 

child is about six 
months old. A 
child may even be 
born with teeth. 

It is said that 
Louis XIV, a 
king of France, 
Richard III, a 
wicked king of 
England, and Mi- 
rabeau, a famous 
French orator, 
were born into the 
world with teeth. 
When a child is 
about six years old 
the first set, com- 
monly called the 
milk teeth, begins to decay ; and the second, or permanent 
set, thirty-two in number, gradually takes its place. 

Each tooth is firmly set in a socket in the jawbone. 
The teeth are chiefly made of dentine, an ivorylike 




FIG. 61. The Temporary and Permanent 
Sets of Teeth 

Milk, or Temporary Teeth : A, central incisors, or 

cutting teeth ; JS, lateral incisors ; C, canines, or 

dog teeth ; D and E, molars 
Permanent Teeth : F, central incisors ; If, lateral 

incisors ; A", canines ; Z, first bicuspids; M t 

second bicuspids ; JV, first molars 



DIGESTION, AND HOW IT GOES ON 89 

substance, coated with a thin layer of a harder substance, 
called enamel. Inside of each tooth is a space filled 
with a delicate substance called the pulp, well supplied 
with nerves and blood vessels. 

When a tooth is decayed, and the nerve is open to the 
air, it soon begins to ache. This is one reason why we 
need to take great care of the teeth, as we shall learn later. 

Experiments." Each pupil should locate his own teeth with the aid 
of a mirror. The teacher may point out the incisors, bicuspids, and 
molars. Study also the teeth of some schoolmate. 

Get a dentist to give you specimens of the various kinds of teeth. 
The teacher may show a perfect molar tooth which has been sawn 
in two lengthwise and describe its various parts. 

The pupil may prepare a blackboard sketch of a tooth on a large 
scale, using colored crayons to make plain its various parts. (Fig. 7 1 .) 

120. Mixing the Food with Saliva. While the food is 
being crushed and ground into fine pieces by the teeth, 
it is rolled about by the tongue, pressed against the 
cheeks and the roof of the mouth, and then swallowed. 

During this time the food is well mixed with the fluid 
of the mouth, called saliva, which flows from a number 
of little spongy organs called salivary glands. 

Perhaps you have had " mumps," or at least have seen 
some friend who had them. In this disease two of these 
little organs, one under each ear, become inflamed and 
swollen for a few days. 

121. The Work done by the Saliva. The saliva wets 
the food, and so makes it easier to swallow. It has, 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



besides, another important work to do: it acts on the 
starchy part of the food, changing some of it into sugar. 
We know that a piece of bread grows sweet in the 
mouth when it is well wet with saliva. This work of the 
saliva is important, for unless starch is changed into sugar, 

it can do us no good. 

When we are not eat- 
ing, the saliva flows only 
in small quantities, just 
enough to keep the 
mouth comfortably 
moist; but when we 
begin to eat, the glands 
that make saliva do a 
brisk business, and pour 
into the mouth a large 
quantity, about half a 
pint, it is said, at a sin- 
gle meal. 

122. What will make a Change in the Flow of Saliva. - 
The sight, or even the thought, of a savory dish will 
make the saliva flow, or, as we say, "make the mouth 
water." The sight of a piece of meat may make the 
saliva run out of a hungry dog's mouth. 

Smoking or chewing tobacco or chewing gum causes 
an undue amount of saliva to flow, thus overworking 
the glands. 




SUBMAXILLARY 

GLAND 



FIG. 62. BLACKBOARD SKETCH 
Salivary Glands of the Right Side 



DIGESTION, AND HOW IT GOES ON 91 

The constant spitting of tobacco juice wastes the saliva 
needed to digest the food, and after a time it may have 
an ill effect on digestion. 

Fear may stop the flow of saliva ; hence in India they 
sometimes try to detect a thief by making those who are 
suspected chew uncooked rice. The person from whose 
mouth it comes out driest is judged to be the thief. 

We can easily understand how necessary it is to chew 
our food well before we swallow it. If we eat very fast, 
and bolt our food nearly whole, we get little good 
from it. It does not digest easily, and sooner or later we 
shall suffer for our negligence. 

Experiments. A simple experiment may illustrate the action of 
saliva on starch. Chew slowly a piece of fresh bread or cracker. 
Note the sweet taste after the food is well moistened with saliva. 
Repeat the experiment with a mouthful of cool paste made by stirring 
arrowroot (almost pure starch) into boiling water. 

If the finger or a lead pencil be moved gently to and fro in the 
mouth a few times, the saliva will flow freely. Think of some favorite 
article of food and notice the abundant flow of saliva. 

123. How the Food is swallowed. The soft, moist mass 
is pushed into the back of the mouth, and forced down 
the gullet, or food pipe, by a wavelike motion. If you 
watch a horse's neck when he is drinking you will see 
this motion. 

Another hollow tube in front of the food pipe opens 
into the back of the mouth. You know it is as necessary 
to breathe air into our lungs as it is to take food into our 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



stomach. So this other tube, or windpipe as it is called, 

is for the passage of the air to the lungs. 

If food should get into the windpipe instead of into 

the food pipe, we might be choked. We all know 

that when a bit of food goes 
" the wrong way " we. have 
to cough until we get it up. 
124. The Little Trapdoor 
known as the Epiglottis. - 
Now you must know that in 
order to prevent food from 
slipping into the windpipe, 
the latter is protected by a 
little trapdoor. 

A very clever fellow is this 
trapdoor. When we are just 
about to swallow a morsel of 
food, down goes the trapdoor 
quick and tight, and keeps 
the food out of the windpipe ; 
but as soon as the food is 

4 ; n flies the t 

3 
door, to let air pass down to 

A, S, incisors, or cutting teeth ; C, ca- the lungS. This WOnderf ully 

useful little servant is called 




FIG. 63. A View of the Back Part 

of the Adult Mouth The Head 
is represented as thrown back, 
and the Tongue drawn forward 



mM-n 

/', //, K. , molars ; M, anterior pillar 

of the fauces ; N, tonsil ; Z, uvula ; the epiglottis, meaning," Upon 

O, upper part of the pharynx; P, 

tongue drawn forward the tOngUC. 



DIGESTION, AND HOW IT GOES ON 



93 



125. The Stomach. The food, a moistened, partly 
digested mass, has now reached the stomach. 

The stomach is a pear-shaped bag, capable of holding 
a quart or more. It lies, across the upper part of the 
abdomen, a little toward the left side. 

The size of the stomach depends 
somewhat upon how much there is in 
it. As we fill it with food it swells 
out larger, like a toy balloon, which 
becomes, as every child knows, smaller 
or larger according to the amount of 
air in it. 

126. The Two Openings of the Stomach. 
The stomach has two openings, 
the gullet end, through which the food 
enters, and the outgoing end, a kind 
of muscular ring. This outgoing end, 

called by a name which means the FIG. 64. Diagram of 
"gate keeper," is made in such a won- 
derful manner that any food trying to 
get through too soon is sent back. 

Would not that carpenter be called 
a very clever man who could make a 
door which would open and shut of 
itself at the right time, which would let only the right 
sort of people go out, and which would crowd away the 
wrong ones? 




a Gastric Gland. 
(Highly magnified) 

The cells of the surface 
are represented as dip- 
ping down into the 
duct, Z>, of the gland, 
from which two tubes 
branch off 



94 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

127. What takes place in the Stomach. As we begin 
to eat, the walls of the stomach stretch themselves out 
to make room for the food, and begin to move gently 
with a wavy motion, which carries the food round and 
round as if it were being churned. This churning motion 
is slow and gentle at first, but becomes faster as digestion 

goes on. 

As soon as the food arrives in 
the stomach, thousands of tiny 
holes in its walls pour out upon 
it a fluid called the gastric juice. 
This flows in great abundance, 
several quarts, probably, every 
day, and has in it a peculiar 
FIG. 65. The inner Surface substance called pepsin, which is 

of the Stomach, from which IT ff > 

the Lining of Cells has been necessary to the digestion of food 

removed, showing the Open- in the Stomach. 

ings of Gastric Glands The gagtric j u j ce disso l veS) and 

thus helps digest, such foods as have proteid in them, as 
lean meat, milk, eggs, and some parts of bread. 

A part of the contents of the stomach, being easily 
dissolved, and soon sufficiently digested, does not go any 
farther, but passes at once into the blood. 

128. How Some Parts of the Food get into the Blood 
from the Stomach. The way in which digested food 
gets from the stomach into the blood is very curious. 
All over the inside walls of the stomach are thousands 




DIGESTION, AND HOW IT GOES ON 95 

of the tiniest blood vessels with very thin walls. Certain 
parts of the digested food soak out of the stomach 
through these very thin walls into the blood vessels, and 
so reach the blood. The parts of the food which need 
further digestion pass into the upper part of the small 
intestine. 

If we could see all these wonderful things going on 
inside of our stomachs, it would be more instructive than 
watching the bees make honey through the glass win- 
dows of their hives. 

It is very plain that the stomach has a great deal of 
hard work to do. It is a busy workshop, where all that 
is eaten is partly made ready for the use of the body. It 
was a favorite saying of Frederick the Great that "an 
army moves on its stomach." 

Experiments. The teacher may prepare artificial gastric juice for 
experimental purposes by dissolving about ten grains of pepsin 
powder (obtained of any druggist) in half a pint of water and adding 
perhaps from fifteen to twenty drops of strong hydrochloric acid, or 
about six times as much of the dilute acid. 

To show the action of gastric juice on milk, pupils may mix two 
teaspoonfuls of fresh milk with a few drops of artificial gastric juice, 
and keep at about 100 F. In a short time the milk curdles so that 
the tube can be inverted without the curd falling out. 

Obtain at the market a small piece of a pig's stomach. Its wall 
closely resembles that of the human stomach. Scrape off the inner 
coat with the edge of a sharp pocket knife. Use a strong mag- 
nifying glass to find the openings of the gastric tubes. With the 
help of fine needles, pick away the layers until the fibers of the 
muscular coats are found. 



96 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

129. How the Small Intestine does its Work. When 
the food has been properly prepared in the stomach, the 
gate keeper opens the gate for the partly digested food 
to pass out into the long tube known as the small 
intestine, or the bowels. 

This tube is about twenty-five feet long, but it is so 
folded and coiled in the body that it takes up very 
little room. 

130. Two Important Digestive Fluids. In the first twelve 
inches of the small intestine the food is mixed with two 
fluids which flow into it through two little tubes. 

The one, called pancreatic juice, is made by the pan- 
creas, or sweetbread as we call it in animals. The other 
is a greenish-yellow fluid, called the bile, which is made 
in the liver. 

The liver is the largest organ in the body, and weighs 
about fifty or sixty ounces. It is on the right side and 
in the upper part of the abdomen. 

131. The Bile. The bile is stored up in a little pear- 
shaped bag attached to the liver, called the gall bladder. 
This little bag is ready to do its part in the twinkling 
of an eye when the food enters the small intestine, and 
straightway pours out its bitter fluid. 

The next time the cook cleans a fowl ask her to show 
you the little greenish bladder, which she takes care not 
to break, because it holds a bitter fluid which, if spilt 
upon the fowl, would quite ruin its flavor. 



DIGESTION, AND HOW IT GOES ON 



97 



DIAPHRAGM 



132. The Liver as a very Busy Workshop. -- The liver is 
a very busy workshop ; in fact, it does double duty. It 
makes out of the 
waste matter of 
the blood the bile 
which is so neces- 
sary to our health. 

Again, the liver 
is a storehouse, in 
which is laid up a 
kind of sugar 
which is grad- 
ually doled out to 
the blood as it is 
needed for the 
use of the body. 

The fat we eat 
is not digested 
in the mouth or 
stomach, but 
in the small in- 
testine. The bile 
divides the fat 
into very small 

particles, and fits ^' first part of the sma11 intestine ' or duodenum; 
it to be taken up 
by the blood. 




FIG. 66. Showing the Relations of the Stomach, 
Liver, Intestines, Spleen, and other Organs of 
the Abdomen. (Front View) 



B, upper end of the small intestine ; C, lower end 
of the small intestine. The liver and stomach are 
drawn up. Portions of the small intestine have been 
cut away, showing parts of the large intestine 



98 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

The fluid from the pancreas also aids in the diges- 
tion of fat. This with other fluids finishes the digestion 
of the starchy foods not already changed into sugar by 
the saliva, and carries on the digestion of other foods 
which the stomach has failed to complete. 

133. How the Food gets into the Blood. Now that the 
food has been acted upon by the digestive fluids and has 
become a thick, creamy mass, it remains for us to see 
how the rich, nutritious part gets into the blood. 

This is done chiefly by two sets of vessels, the blood 
vessels, and the lacteals or lymphatics. 

The process by which the digested matters are taken 
into the blood is called absorption. 

134. Absorption by Means of the Blood Vessels. -- The 
inner lining of the small intestine is richly supplied with 
blood vessels. Certain parts of the food which were not 
digested in the stomach readily soak through the delicate 
walls of these vessels and are taken directly into the blood. 

135. Absorption by the Lacteals. - - The inside lining of 
the intestines is not smooth, like the outside, but has a 
velvety appearance. Millions of short threads, called 
villi, meaning " tufts of hair," hang down like very small 
tongues into the inside of the small intestine. 

The villi are only about one thirtieth of an inch long, 
and a five-cent coin would cover five hundred of them. 
They have the look of the pile on plush. We are familiar 
with this appearance in tripe. 



DIGESTION, AND HOW IT GOES ON 



99 




In each one of these villi is a network of the finest 
blood vessels, and a tube called a lacteal, meaning " milky," 
because it carries a white, milky fluid. Millions of these 
lacteals dip down into the intestines like little root fibers, 
and soak up the fatty matters of the food. The droplets 
of fat give the liquid its creamy or milky appearance; 
hence the name "lacteals." 

136. The Thoracic Duct. The lacteals, 
after passing through a number of glands 
in the abdomen, unite into larger tubes. 
The largest is a tube from fifteen to 
eighteen inches long and about as large 
as a lead pencil, called the thoracic duct. 

This tube carries the fluid upward in FlG - 6 7- ~~ A Sma11 

. . . Portion of the Lin- 

tront or the backbone, and pours it into a 
large vein which carries it to the heart. 

137. The Lymphatics. -- The lacteals 
are simply those lymphatics which have 
their roots in the villi of the intestines. 
In all parts of the body, except in the 

brain, spinal cord, eyeball, and tendons, we find a won- 
derful network of thin-walled vessels precisely like the 
lacteals, called the lymphatics. These are busily at work 
taking up waste or surplus materials derived from the 
blood and other tissues. 

The lymphatics seem to start out of the part in which 
they are found, like the rootlets of a plant in the soil. 



ing Membrane of 
the Small Intes- 
tine. Villi are 
seen surrounded 
by the Openings 
of the Tubular 
Glands 



100 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



These rootlets join together and make larger roots. 
They carry a yellowish fluid called lymph, very much 
like blood without the red corpuscles. 

At many points in the course of these tubes in which 
this fluid flows are rounded bodies, called lymphatic 

glands, scattered like stations 
along a line of railroad. When 
the hand or arm is injured, the 
lymphatic glands under the 
arm often swell and become 
quite painful. 

Most of the lymphatics at 
last unite with the lacteals and 
empty their contents into the 
thoracic duct. 

138. The Large Intestine. - 
The first or main part of the 
intestines is called the small intestine. The last five 
or six feet of the long digestive tube is known as the 
large intestine. The contents of this portion of the di- 
gestive canal travel through it very slowly, and are not 
much changed while in it. 

We may think of the large intestine as a kind of tem- 
porary storehouse for undigested and waste matter, which 
should be got rid of as speedily as possible. 




FIG. 68. Lymphatics and Lym- 
phatic Glands of the Armpit, 
or Axilla 



DIGESTION, AND HOW IT GOES ON 101 

GOOD DIGESTION, AND HOW TO SECURE IT 

139. Wholesome Effect of Plain and Simple Food. The 
plainest and simplest food is the best to keep us well 
and strong. It is better for young people to begin a 
day's work with a breakfast of oatmeal, toast, or well- 
baked bread, a soft-boiled egg, and a glass of milk, than 
with one of strong coffee, sausage, and hot bread. One 
sleeps much better to go to bed after a supper of oat- 
meal, baked apples, or mush and milk, than after one of 
hot biscuit, cake, pie, and fried meat. 

Do not try to whip up a flagging appetite with an 
undue amount of pepper, mustard, pickles, and highly 
seasoned foods. They may spur on digestion for a short 
time, but will soon weaken it. Much of the discomfort 
and pain that people suffer comes from putting a great 
number of things into the stomach that have no business 
there. 

140. The Simple Diet of Some Famous Men. William 
Cullen Bryant, the American poet, and one of the hard- 
est literary workers of his time, died from an accident at 
the age of eighty-four. His daily breakfast, was made of 
hominy and milk, with a little fruit. He ate meat only 
once a day. For supper he drank no tea, but ate bread 
and butter and fruit. Yet, when he was over eighty he 
could do more literary work on this simple diet than 
most ordinary men of middle age. 



102 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

Washington was a large and a very strong man. He 
ate sparingly and of the simplest food. He tells us in 
his journal that he " breakfasted at seven o'clock on three 
small Indian hoe-cakes," and that he was "excessively 
fond of fish." 

Even at the state banquets the first President usually 
dined on a single dish, and that of a very simple kind. 
When asked to eat some rich food, his courteous reply 
was, " That is too good for me." 

In the days of the Revolution there were back- 
woodsmen of gigantic strength in the army, and yet 
Washington was believed to be the most powerful man 
in the patriot forces. When Sir Isaac Newton was writ- 
ing his famous classic, called Principia, he lived on a 
scanty allowance of bread, water, and a few vegetables. 
The great war king, Charles XII of Sweden, said he 
preferred plain bread and butter to all the rich foods 
of a royal banquet. 

141. The Value of Vegetable Foods. While most of us 
eat some kind of meat every day and find it very use- 
ful, yet other foods, especially such vegetables as peas 
and beans, really would furnish the same class of food 
materials that we get from meat, and would keep us well 
and strong. 

In northern India there are hardy people that live 
mainly on barley, wheat, millet, and rice. In southern 
India millions of people live on peas and rice. 



DIGESTION, AND HOW IT GOES ON 103 

The common people of Scotland, among the hardiest 
men in the world, live largely on oatmeal and milk. 
The famous Dr. Johnson once spoke of oats as "food 
for men in Scotland, and for horses in England " ; and 
a sturdy Scotchman added, 
" Yes, indeed ; and where 
else will you find such men 
and such horses ? " 

During the Japanese- 
Russian war the Japanese 
soldiers proved themselves 
to be among the very 
strongest men on the earth, 
and yet they ate little or no 
meat. The diet which en- 
abled them to develop such 
hardy frames and keen and 
well-balanced brains con- 
sisted almost wholly of rice. 

Some of the fierce warrior 
tribes of South Africa are 

forbidden by their religion FIG. 69.- Lymphatics on the Inside 
3 . of the Right Hand 

to eat meat. Indian corn 

with milk is about the only food eaten by the savage 

Zulus when marching on their long fighting campaigns. 

Travelers speak of the tall, stately but thin Arabs in 

Egypt who pick up and carry off on their heads huge 




104 HOW TO KEEP 

bales of ' merchandise. And yet we are told that their 
diet is chiefly cereals with a little fruit. 

142. Peculiar Effect of Common Foods upon Certain Per- 
sons. We have all heard of the old maxim that " what 
is one man's meat is another man's poison." There is 
really more truth in this saying than would at first be 
supposed. 

Some persons are made sick by eating certain articles 
of food which to other people are harmless. Some are 
made ill by eating various kinds of shellfish, others by 
eating eggs or fruit. 

The story is told of a lady who could digest hard salt 
beef, but who suffered dreadful pain if she ate a single 
strawberry; one person was thrown into convulsions 
whenever he ate onions. Francis I, a king of France, 
could not eat bread. There are many people who have 
to avoid apples, veal, and cheese. 

143. How the Mind may hinder Digestion. --The state 
of the mind has a great deal to do with digestion, as it 
has with every other part of the body. 

Sudden fear, or joy, or pain, or any other mental strain 
may take away the appetite at once and stop digestion. 
We forget all about the sensation of hunger during a 
time of mental excitement. Some of us know how hard 
it is to touch food when stricken with pain or grief. 
During a battle soldiers will go without food all day, 
forgetting the rations in their knapsacks. 



DIGESTION, AND HOW IT GOES ON 



144. Food and Drink should not be taken too Hot or too 
Cold. Do not take food and drink when they are too hot 
or too cold. If they are taken too cold, undue heat is taken 
from the stomach, and digestion delayed. If we drink 
freely of ice water or cold well water, it will take some 
time for the stomach to regain its 

natural heat. 

Drinking freely of very cold water 
when the body is heated is also a 
dangerous practice, and, aside from its 
ill effects on digestion, has occasion- 
ally resulted fatally. 

145. Eating too Much 
Food. If 

we eat too 
much, we 
are apt. to 
feel heavy 
and stupid. 

An overloaded stomach makes itself felt by a sense of 
fullness, uneasiness, drowsiness after meals, and some- 
times a real distress, like a sick headache. Napoleon 
Bonaparte claimed that he lost an important battle 
because of a sick headache which came on suddenly 
after eating very heartily. 

If we keep on eating too much, especially of too rich 
or highly spiced food, as growing children are apt to do. 




FIG. 70. Lymphatics of the Left Foot 



106 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

the complexion becomes muddy, the face marred with 
blotches and pimples, and the breath often has an 
unpleasant odor. 

146. Eating at Regular Hours. The stomach, like other 
organs, does its work best when its tasks are done at regu- 
lar periods. Regularity in eating is of the utmost impor- 
tance. Three meals a day, from five to six hours apart, 
arranged according to our occupations, should be eaten. 

Children should be allowed to eat only at regular 
times. The habit of eating candy, cake, nuts, or fruit 
between meals often results in the disorders of digestion 
which are so common in childhood. 

Eating too frequently, as well as too much at a time, 
may cause indigestion. The stomach is not intended 
to be constantly at work. After it has done its work it 
requires a short period of rest. Most articles of food 
that we eat need from three to five hours for digestion. 

147. The Object of cooking Food. Almost every arti- 
cle of food must be cooked. To be sure, some few things, 
as milk, eggs, oysters, some vegetables and fruits, are 
often eaten raw. The chief object of cooking food is 
to make it more easily chewed and acted upon by the 
digestive fluids. Cooking brings out agreeable flavors 
and makes food taste better. The warmth of cooked 
food has a healthful action. Cooking also kills the little 
creatures called parasites, which are sometimes found in 
raw food. 



DIGESTION, AND HOW IT GOES ON 107 

148. Girls should be taught to Cook. Much ill health 
in families may be traced to badly cooked food. The hard- 
ships and discomforts of poverty are often increased by 
those who have never learned how to buy food wisely 
and to cook it properly. 

No girl has been properly trained for a woman's duties 
who has not been taught how to buy the family food, to 
cook it properly, and to serve it well on the table. 

149. The Care of the Teeth. Although the first teeth 
last only a few years, it is important that they should not 
be neglected. If they are allowed to decay or to remain 
in the mouth after they should be removed, they may 
injure the permanent set or cause the new teeth to grow 
irregularly. 

No pains should be spared to keep the teeth in perfect 
condition, for misshapen teeth make the mouth unsightly, 
and unsound ones are, besides, a frequent cause of offen- 
sive breath and a foul stomach. 

In these days, when dental skill has reached such per- 
fection, there is little excuse for bad teeth. One should 
not wait for defects to appear, but should let the dentist 
examine the teeth two or three times a year. 

150. Practical Hints about the Teeth. The teeth should 
be thoroughly cleansed at bedtime and after each meal 
with a soft brush and warm water. Some simple tooth 
powder should be used. The brush should be used on the 
inner side or back of the teeth as well as on the front. 



io8 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



After eating certain articles of food, as the various 
sweet stuffs, the mouth is often unwholesome. Hence 
the teeth should be thoroughly cleansed after eating 
such food. The sweets stick between the teeth and fer- 
ment, thus causing them to decay. 

It is also important 
to clean the spaces 
between the teeth and 
to remove every par- 
ticle of food. This can 
be best done by draw- 
ing floss silk back and 
forth between them to 
cleanse the parts which 
cannot be reached by 
a brush. 

We must be on our 
guard lest we do harm 
to the enamel. For this 
reason, do not crack 




FIG. 71. Blackboard Exercise on 
the Teeth 

The pupil, having made a blackboard sketch 
of a section of a tooth, is describing its 
several parts. (From a photograph taken 
in the schoolroom) 



nuts, crush hard candy, nor bite off threads with the teeth. 
151. How Alcohol may hinder Digestion. Alcoholic 
drinks are often taken with meals because they are 
thought to aid digestion. Like mustard, pepper, ginger, 
horse-radish, and other irritants, they cause the gastric 
juice to be rapidly poured out of the walls of the 
stomach. This may or may not be a good thing. 



DIGESTION, AND HOW IT GOES ON 109 

In the healthy stomach ordinary food and natural 
appetite cause the stomach to send out enough gastric 
juice to digest all the food the body requires. Obliging 
the stomach to provide more gastric juice than is needed 
is throwing useless work upon an already hard-worked 
organ of the body. 

This is not the only objection to taking alcohol with 
meals. Alcohol lessens the power of the gastric juice to 
digest food as long as it remains in the stomach in the 
amounts ordinarily taken. Gradually, perhaps in half an 
hour, the alcohol passes out of the stomach, and then the 
process of digestion can go on. But the time lost must 
be made up before alcohol can be Called a promoter of 
digestion. 

152. Effect of Alcohol upon the Stomach. The best way 
to keep good digestion is to eat only as much as natural 
appetite calls for. If we eat when we are not hungry, or 
to gratify taste after the desire for plain food is satisfied, 
and then excite the stomach with alcoholic drinks and 
other irritants with the idea of making it take care of food 
that we should not have eaten, we need not be surprised 
if after a time our stomach gives us pain and trouble. 



110 HOW TO KEEP WELL 



QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW 

1. How is the waste in the blood made good ? 

2. What is meant by digestion and the digestive organs ? 

3. What can you tell about the teeth ? 

4. Describe the process of digestion in the mouth. 

5. What is the action of saliva ? 

6. How do we swallow food ? 

7. What is the epiglottis, and what is its use ? 

8. How will you describe the stomach ? 

9. What takes place when food reaches the stomach ? 

10. What is the gastric juice, and how does it act? 

11. How do some portions of the food get into the blood ? 

12. Describe the small intestine. 

13. What important digestive fluids act upon the food in the 
intestines ? 

14. What can you tell about the liver and its work ? 

15. How is the nutritious part of food absorbed by the blood ? 

16. Describe the lacteals, and explain their action. 

17. What is the thoracic duct, and what is its duty ? 

18. Describe the lymphatics and explain their work. 

19. Describe the large intestine. 

20. Describe the effect of eating plain food. 

21. What can you tell of the simple diet of some famous men ? 

22. What races of people have flourished on vegetable foods ? 

23. What peculiar effect do some foods have upon certain people ? 

24. How may the mind hinder digestion ? 

25. Why should not food be taken too hot or too cold ? 

26. What are some of the ill effects of eating too much food ? 

27. Why should we eat at regular hours ? 

28. What are the chief objects in cooking food ? 

29. Give what hints you can about the care of the teeth. 

30. Explain how alcohol may hinder the process of digestion. 



CHAPTER VIII 

THE BLOOD AND ITS CIRCULATION 

153. The Blood : what it is and how it looks. We all 
know how blood looks. When freshly drawn it is a 
bright red fluid, which soon becomes thicker and of 
a dullish-brown color. After a few minutes it sets to a 
jelly, or clots as it is called. 

Why does blood look red? Because there are in it 
millions of little red bodies, called blood cells or corpus- 
cles, which are swept along in the blood current just as 
you might imagine countless numbers of tiny red fishes 
swimming in the rapids of a river. 

Imagine the clear waters of a brook alive with little 
red fishes ; suppose the fishes to be very, very small, and 
closely crowded together through the whole depth of the 
stream, the water would look red, would it not ? 

154. More about Blood Corpuscles. --The shape of the 
red blood corpuscles is somewhat like that of thin round 
cakes or biscuits. Sometimes they cling together like 
piles of pennies. In a single drop of blood there are 
several millions of them ; so you see that they are very 
small and very numerous. They can be seen only with 
the aid of the microscope. 



I 12 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



We are told that these corpuscles are so small that a 
drop of water no larger than the head of a pin would 
contain five millions of them. It would take more than 
three thousand red corpuscles placed side by side to 
make a line one inch long. 

155. The Use of the Red Corpuscles. Of what use are 
the red corpuscles ? All the use in the world. They are 

very important. They 
have the power of 
taking up gases as a 
sponge can take in 
water. We shall study 
in the next chapter 
something about the 
oxygen that we breathe 
in and the carbon 
dioxide that we breathe 
out. Now these red 
corpuscles are the 
oxygen carriers for the 
blood; that is, they 
carry oxygen from the 
air into every tissue of 
the body. 

We may think of them as a fleet of countless little 
boats, carrying their precious cargoes of oxygen to nearly 
every part of the body. These corpuscles live a very active 




FIG. 72. Human Blood Corpuscles as 
seen under the Microscope. (Magni- 
fied 1000 diameters) 

The dark circular disks are the red corpus- 
cles. Near the center two white cor- 
puscles are .seen, with their nuclei stained 
so that they look black 



THE BLOOD AND ITS CIRCULATION 



life. "Every moment of our lives, whether we are sound 
asleep or wide-awake, they are as busy as bees. 

156. White Corpuscles. With about every three hun- 
dred of the little red corpuscles we can find, with the aid 
of the microscope, one 

white corpuscle. 
These are very differ- 
ent from the red. They 
have all sorts of queer 
shapes. While we are 
watching them they 
take on new forms as 
they roll and tumble 
about in the watery 
fluid. 

The white corpuscles 

. FIG. 73. Blood Corpuscles of the Frog 

push their way OUt as seen under the Microscope. (Mag- 
thrOUgh the walls of nified 1000 diameters) 

the blood vessels and travel about into various parts of 
the body. It is believed that they carry off out of harm's 
way substances which might produce certain diseases 
if allowed to remain. 

157. The Clotting of Blood. If we beat up some fresh 
blood in a bowl with an egg beater, we find entangled in 
it a white, sticky substance, which is easily seen after 
the coloring matter has been washed away. This is 
called fibrin. It is a kind of glue used by nature to stop 




114 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

bleeding by making a plug for fresh wounds. Were it not 
for this we might bleed to death from some trifling scratch, 
from having a tooth pulled, or even from a slight cut. 

If we fill a tumbler half full of fresh blood and let it 
stand over night, we shall find in the morning that it has 
separated into two parts: one, a sticky, jellylike mass 
called the clot, sinks to the bottom ; the other, a straw- 
colored, watery fluid called serum, is on the fop. Serum 
is made up chiefly of a substance similar to the white of 
an egg dissolved in a great deal of .water. It will not 
boil like water. Before we get it as hot as boiling water 
it " sets " into a solid mass like the white of a hard-boiled 
egg. It is the serum which helps feed the tissues of the 
body with nutritive material. 

158. The Circulation of the Blood. To circulate means 
to go round, and the circulation is so called because the 
blood goes round and round in the body. The blood 
is not simply held in our bodies as water is in a sponge ; 
it is carried in pipes. These start from the heart and 
branch into all parts of the body. 

We know we can draw blood from almost any part of 
the body if we prick it with a needle. In fact, there is 
hardly a spot on us the size of a needle's point which has 
not its own little tube filled with blood. Compared with 
the smallest blood vessels, a needle is a huge stake, and 
tears not only one but many hundreds of them every 
time we draw blood with it. 



THE BLOOD AND ITS CIRCULATION 115 

159. Discovery of the Circulation of Blood. The circu- 
lation of the blood was not discovered until a few years 
before the Pilgrims sailed across the Atlantic in the May- 
flower. The man who made this great discovery deserves 




FIG. 74. William Harvey demonstrating the Circulation of Blood 
to King Charles the First of England 

This picture represents the king as witnessing the dissection of a doe's heart, 
of which he had placed many at Harvey's disposal while the great physician 
was making his investigations concerning the circulation of the blood. 

(The picture is used by the kind permission of William Wood & Co., publishers) 

a few words. His name was William Harvey. He was 

an Englishman, and a physician to the king of England. 

For many years learned men had had a glimmer of 

light on the subject ; but it was Dr. Harvey who put 



n6 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



together all that had been discovered, and really found 
out the way in which the blood circulates in the human 
body. The good doctor died in 1657, 
nearly forty years after his remarkable 
discovery had been made. 

160. The Blood Vessels. The pipes in 
which the blood flows from the heart are 
called arteries. These are so named be- 
cause before the time of Harvey learned 
men, not being able to explain the fact 
that the arteries were found empty after 
death, supposed that they carried air, and 
not blood, throughout the body. 

The pipes in which the blood flows to 
the heart are called veins. Joining these 
two sets of vessels is another set of very 
fine tubes, called capillaries. 

Experiment. With the thumb and two fingers 
of the right hand grasp the left wrist firmly. Note 
that the blood vessels become prominent. This is 
because the flow of venous blood towards the heart 
is checked. The veins have little pouch- 
like folds, or pockets, which serve to pre- 
vent the backward flow of blood. The posi- 
tion of these valves is indicated by the little 
knots, or swellings, in the veins on the back 
of the hand. 

161. The Capillaries. The capillaries are found almost 
everywhere. This long name means " hairlike," and to 




FIG. 75. The Principal 
Vein on the Inner Side 
of the Left Leg 



THE BLOOD AND ITS CIRCULATION 



117 



compare these vessels to hair was probably the best de- 
scription of their size that learned men could devise. But 
really our delicate hairs, fine as they are, are cables, and 
coarse cables too, com- 
pared with the capillaries. 

162. More about the 
Capillaries. The capil- 
laries form a meshwork 
which serves as a set of 
connecting links between 
the arteries and the veins. 
It is the capillaries that 
bleed when the skin is 
pricked with a needle. 

We may think of an 
artery and a vein as like 
two streets, and the 
capillaries like millions 
of little lanes through 
which the blood finds its 
way in passing from one 
street to the other. 

In brief, the blood ves- 
sels and the heart form 
a sort of ring, a circle without a break in it. 

163. The Heart. The heart is the most wonderful little 
pump in the world; in fact, it is two pumps in one, 




FIG. 76. Front View of the Heart 

A, superior vena cava ; B, right auricle ; 
C, right ventricle ; >, left ventricle ; , 
left auricle ; f, pulmonary vein ; H^ pul- 
monary artery ; K, aorta ; Z, right sub- 
clavian artery ; M, right common carotid 
artery ; JV, left common carotid artery 



u8 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



a double pump. There is no machine of its size that is 
half so clever or so strong at its work, for it never seems 
to get tired. The heart is similar to a strawberry in 
shape, and is about the size of its owner's closed fist. 

It is a muscle ; hence it 
can contract and relax. 
Most of us know that 
the heart is nearly in 
the middle of the chest, 
between the two lungs, 
with its pointed end 
turned towards the left 
side. Here it is con- 
stantly beating, like a 
watch, ticking all day 
and all night, year after 
year, never stopping, 
and never needing to 
be wound up. 

Experiment. Borrow a 
stethoscope from some 
physician. With its aid 
the location of the heart is 
easily made out. The end 
of the stethoscope should be placed about one inch below and to the 
left of the middle of the left side of the chest (about three inches 
to the left of the outer edge of the breastbone). Only one thickness 
of underclothing should be interposed. Listen carefully to the heart 
sounds of some friend. 




FIG. 77. Schoolboy listening to the Beat- 
ing of the Heart with a Stethoscope 
(From a photograph taken in the class room) 



THE BLOOD AND ITS CIRCULATION 119 

164. How the Heart is divided into Rooms. When the 
heart is cut open it is seen to be hollow and to be 
divided into four rooms. First, it is divided down the 
middle, from top to bot- 
tom. There is no door in 
the partition, so no blood 
can go directly from one 
side to the other. 

Then each one of these 
halves is divided cross- 
wise. But these partitions 
are not quite complete: 
they have little doors 
which open and shut and 
act not unlike the valves 
of a pump. They open 
somewhat like a parachute 
to let the blood through, 

and Close to prevent its FIG. 78. -Posterior View of the Heart 

return. L.A., left auricle; R.A., right auricle; 

T H- 11 s now learn the . f., left ventricle ; tf. Fl, right ventri- 

LCt cle ; A, opening of the inferior vena 

names Of these four rooms cava : B, superior vena cava; C, right 

pulmonary veins; Z>, left pulmonary 

in the heart, and See What veins ; E, aorta ; F, left branch of pul- 

is going on in each. monary artery 

The two upper rooms are called the right and left 
auricles ; the two lower rooms, the right and left ventri- 
cles. In each a blood vessel either enters or starts off. 




120 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

165. The Aorta and its Great Branches. The largest 
artery in the body, a large tube called the aorta, passes 
out of the left ventricle. Every time the heart beats, 
it squeezes about four tablespoonfuls of blood into this 
great blood vessel. Did you ever notice a blackish 
thread running along the backbone of a fish before it 
is cooked? This is the fish's aorta. 

This great tube makes a horseshoe bend near the 
heart, and, clinging close to the backbone, passes down 
towards the hips, sending out a great number of branches. 
Arriving at the loins, it divides into two great branches, 
which send other branches down, some of them to the 
very tips of the toes. 

166. How the Blood gets back to the Heart. Like a tree, 
the arteries divide into branches again and again, and 
these into still smaller branches and twigs, until at last 
the capillaries are reached. 

When the blood has passed through the little capil- 
laries it enters other tiny vessels, which gradually join, 
making larger and larger vessels, called veins, somewhat as 
brooks unite to form a river. The blood now flows back 
towards the heart through the veins, and is emptied into 
the right auricle from the two largest veins of the body. 

167. The Circulation of Blood in the Lungs. How does 
the blood get from one side of the heart to the other, 
since there is no opening in the partition between the 
two sides? It goes around through the lungs. 



THE BLOOD AND ITS CIRCULATION 



121 



The blood goes out of the lower room on the right 
side of the heart through a great tube called the lung 
artery. This artery divides over and over again into 

Experiment. The circulation of blood in a live animal may be 
shown quite well in the ear of a tame white rabbit. Place the ani- 
mal on a table about six inches from a lighted lamp. Gently keep 
one ear on the stretch and so adjusted to the light that the blood in 




FIG. 79. Schoolboy observing the Circulation of Blood 
in a Rabbit's Ear 

(From a photograph taken in the class room) 

the central artery can be seen coursing through the translucent 
membrane. The whole ear has a pink color, and is warm from 
the abundant blood flowing through it. If the rabbit is kept quiet 
and not alarmed, by close observation the main artery may be seen 
to grow smaller and then larger at somewhat irregular periods of 
a minute or more. 



122 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

branches, in the substance of the lungs, carrying the 
blood into the network of the lung capillaries. 

We are told that if all these hairlike tubes in the 
lungs could be fastened together they would reach from 




FIG. 80. The Right Axil- 
lary and Brachial Arteries, 
with Some of their Main 
Branches 



New York City to England and back again. These capil- 
laries in the lungs unite as they do in the rest of the 
body, and lead into very fine veins, which gradually 
grow larger and larger. 

All the veins at last unite into four great veins, called 
lung veins, which empty the blood into the upper room 
on the left side of the heart. 

From the left side of the heart the blood is. pumped 
all over the body through the arteries. 

The blood thus goes round and round in the body, 
making what is called the circulation. 

168. What takes place in the Lungs. When the blood 
reaches the lungs it needs oxygen. Now the little air 



THE BLOOD AND ITS CIRCULATION 



123 



sacs of the lungs, which we shall read about in the next 
chapter, are full of oxygen, which is carried to them with 
every breath. From these air sacs the oxygen of the air 
quickly passes through the thin walls of the capillaries 
and is then taken up by the red corpuscles of the blood. 

But this is not all of the story. The blood that reaches 
the lungs contains carbon dioxide 
and other waste matters picked up 
on its journey through the body. It 
is in the lungs that this waste is got 
rid of. It easily passes through the 
very thin walls of the capillaries into 
the air sacs of the lungs, from which 
it is breathed out into the air. 

The blood thus gets rid of its im- 
purities and is made fresh and clean. 

169. How the Heart does its Work. 
The heart is really a kind of little 
force pump, working somewhat as 
your hand does when you squeeze 
with it. Every time the heart gives 
its great squeeze, or "beats" against 
the chest walls, it pumps a fresh quan- 
tity of blood into the arteries. The 
force given by this beat of the heart helps to keep the 
blood steadily moving through the arteries, the capillaries, 
the veins, and back again to the other side of the heart. 




FIG. 81. The Femoral 
Artery of Right Leg 



I2 4 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



The heart can thus pump blood because it is made up 
chiefly of muscle and can squeeze itself together with a 
wonderful power. If you think for a moment, you will 
see that when the walls of a cavity become at one time 

shorter and thicker they must 
draw nearer together. The space 
inside thus becomes very small. 
This is really what occurs in each 
of the four rooms of the heart. 

170. The Journey of the Blood. 
Let us follow the blood in its 
journey around the body. It 
returns bright and red from the 
lungs to the left auricle. This 
chamber contracts and the blood 
passes through the swinging 
doors into the left ventricle. 
This cavity then contracts and 
pumps the blood into the aorta. 
From that forcible impulse the 

FIG. 82. Diagram illustrating 

the Circulation blood rushes through the arteries, 

i, right auricle; 2, left auricle ; and thence passes more slowly 

3, right ventricle; 4, left ven- through capillaries and veins, and 

tncle ; 5, vena cava superior ; 

e, vena cava inferior; 7, pui- is at last emptied into the right 

monary arteries; 8, lungs ; i 

9, pulmonary veins ; 10, aorta; 




11, alimentary canal; 12, liver; 
13, hepatic artery; 14, portal 
vein ; 15, hepatic vein 



This chamber in turn con- 
tracts and the blood flows down 



THE BLOOD AND ITS CIRCULATION 



125 



past the little swinging doors into the right ventricle ; this 
cavity then contracts and drives the blood through the 
lung artery into the lungs, to be purified and to take up 
oxygen. Then it is ready once 
more to go on its journey. 

More wonderful still ! How 
long do you think it takes a 
drop of blood to go its grand 
round in the body? Only 
while your watch is ticking 
twenty-two times. All the 
blood we have, which is 
about one tenth of our 
weight, makes this complete 
circuit in about two minutes ! 

171. The Heart as a Wonder- 
ful Machine. What a mar- 
velous machine the heart is! 
It is busily pumping away, 
without getting tired, night 
and day, for threescore years 
and ten, or even a full cen- 
tury, if you live so long, 
about seventy-two strokes every minute, over forty-three 
hundred times every hour, and nearly thirty-eight mil- 
lion beats every year. Let the heart come to a standstill 
even for one brief moment, and we cease to live. 




FIG. 83. Arrangement of Mus- 
cular Fibers about the Ven- 
tricles of the Heart 

A, muscular fibers common to both 
ventricles ; J3, fibers of the left 
ventricle; C, deep fibers passing 
upwards towards the base of the 
heart 



126 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

How quietly this rapid stream of life flows on within 
us, never stopping for a moment from birth till death ! 
We feel nothing of it but the gentle tapping of the heart 
and the regular throb of the pulse, as the lifeblood goes 
swiftly on its ceaseless round. 

172. The Pulse. Press the wrist of a friend, laying two 
fingers over the outer bone of his arm, or press two of 
your fingers over the thumb side of your owri wrist. You 
can feel very easily a gentle, regular movement, which is 
known as the pulse. (Fig. 84.) 

173. Where the Pulse may be found. The pulse may 
be felt everywhere in the body where an artery comes 
near the surface, as on the temples, the sides of the 
neck, and near the ankle. Most of the arteries are 
more deeply buried in the flesh, where it is not easy 
to feel their throbs. 

By feeling the pulse, doctors can tell whether the 
heart is working at the proper rate or too fast or too 
slow. They feel your pulse at the wrist simply because 
it is more convenient for them to do so. 

174. Changes in the Rate of the Pulse. In a healthy 
adult the pulse beats about seventy-two times a minute. 

The pulse is quicker in children than in adults, and 
slower in old age than in middle life. 

In certain diseases, especially in fevers, the pulse goes 
with great sudden leaps, like a galloping horse ; in others 
it moves in little jerks ; while in some very feeble or sick 



THE BLOOD AND ITS CIRCULATION 



127 



people it moves slowly and wearily, and its throbs may be 
so weak that even doctors can scarcely feel them. 

Experiments. With your right hand grasp the wrist of a friend, 
pressing with two or three fingers over the radius or bone on the 
thumb side of the arm. By taking pains, the regular, throbbing 
movement of the artery, or 
pulse, may be felt. 

Find your own radial pulse 
by pressing the left thumb 
firmly against the lower end 
of the right radius. With the 
aid of a watch, count the rate 
of your own pulse and also 
that of some friend. 

175. Effect of Exercise 
upon the Circulation. A 
proper amount of exer- 
cise enables all the organs 

of the body to do their FlG - 8 4- Teacher showing a Schoolboy 
i -.i how to find the Pulse 

work with more vigor. 

, TT1 .. , , , (From a photograph taken in the class room) 

When we feel cold a 

brisk walk or lively game will "start the blood" and make 
us feel warmer. A daily bath, followed by a brisk rubbing 
of the skin w r ith a coarse towel, quickens the circulation. 
Excessive exercise is, however, to be avoided. Like 
any machine, the heart may be strained by violent effort. 
Gymnasts, oarsmen, football players, and others occa- 
sionally wrench the delicate machinery of the heart; 
the result is, oftentimes, many years of ill health. 




128 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



176. Effect of Pressure upon the Circulation. Many of 
the veins lie so near the surface of the body that the flow 
of blood through them is easily hindered by pressure. 
Hence no article of clothing should be 
worn tight enough to interfere with 
the flow of the blood. 

Tight garters, by checking the cir- 
culation, often cause a sense of numb- 
ness below the knees, cold feet, and 
chilblains. Tight collars or bands 
about the neck may cause dizziness 
and a feeling of fullness in the head. 

Bands, belts, and straps, and even 
boots and shoes, should never be 
worn so tight as to hinder the free 
circulation of blood. 

The health of the blood, like that 
of any other tissue of the body, may 
be promoted by a nourishing diet, 

pure air, and a proper amount of rest 
FIG. 85. The Larger 

Arteries on the Top and clothing. 

of the Right Foot 177. Effect of Alcohol upon the Cir- 

culation. When a person has taken a moderate amount 
of wine, or other alcoholic drink, it is quite common 
to see the cheeks flush, the eyes brighten, the speech 
become more rapid and accompanied, perhaps, with 
lively gestures. 




THE BLOOD AND ITS CIRCULATION 



129 



As alcohol has the power thus to excite the drinker 
it has been called a stimulant, which means something 
that quickens bodily activity. 

Careful study has shown that these livelier actions 
of the drinker are really due to the slightly benumb- 
ing effect which alcohol has upon 
those parts of the nervous system 
that control the circulation. 

178. Effect of the Habitual Use 
of Alcoholic Beverages upon the 
Heart and Blood Vessels. - - The 
habitual use of alcoholic drinks 
in amounts which by many would 
be considered moderate often 
causes changes in the structure 
of the heart and in the large 
arteries, weakening them so much 
that they cannot do their work 
well. 

179. Effect of Tobacco on the 
Heart. Tobacco has a powerful 

effect upon the action of the heart. FlG 86 ._ The uinar and 
A weak and intermittent pulse, due 
to the irregular action of the heart, 
is a common result of its use. This trouble disappears 
after the tobacco is abandoned. Applicants for life insur- 
ance are frequently rejected because of a " tobacco heart." 




Radial Arteries of the 
Left Arm and Hand 



130 HOW TO KEEP WELL 



QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW 

1. How does blood look to the naked eye ? 

2. What gives the red color to blood ? 

3. Describe the red blood corpuscles. 

4. Give some familiar illustration to show their small size. 

5. Of what use are the red corpuscles ? 

6. To what may we compare the red corpuscles ? 

7. Describe the white blood corpuscles. 

8. What is supposed to be the duty of the white blood corpuscles ? 

9. How will you explain the clotting of blood ? 

10. What is meant by the circulation of the blood ? 

11. What can you tell of Harvey and his discovery of the circula- 
tion of the blood ? 

12. What are arteries and veins ? 

13. Tell what you can about the capillaries. 

14. Describe the heart, and show how it is divided into rooms. 

15. What is the aorta ? 

16. Describe some of the main branches of the aorta. 

17. How does the blood get back to the heart ? 

18. Describe the circulation of blood in the lungs. 

19. How does the heart do its work ? 

20. Describe the journey of the blood. 

21. What can you say of the heart as a wonderful machine ? 

22. What is meant by the pulse, and where may it be found ? 

23. Describe the effect of exercise upon the circulation. 

24. How is the circulation of the blood affected by tight bands or 
clothing ? 

25. What is the effect of alcohol upon the circulation ? 

26. What is the effect of the habitual use of alcoholic beverages 
upon the heart and blood vessels ? 

27. What is the effect of tobacco upon the heart ? 



CHAPTER IX 

WHY AND HOW WE BREATHE 

180. All Animals breathe. When we watch a cat or 
a dog, we see their sides move in and out with the 
motions of breathing. We notice the breath puffing out 
of a horse's nostrils as he rests after a hard pull. 

On cold winter mornings we may see our breath like 
a cloud of steam. The air which we breathe may feel 
cold as it passes in through the lips. It is warm as it 
goes out, as you know, for we can warm our cold finger 
tips with the breath. 

181. Breathing. Breathing is drawing air into the 
lungs, and sending it out again. The whole process of 
breathing is called respiration, and consists of two move- 
ments, namely: 

The act of drawing in the breath, known as inspiration. 

The act of sending it out, called expiration. 

Plants breathe, but we cannot see them do it, for they 
have no lungs to expand. They breathe in a very dif- 
ferent way, through tiny holes in their leaves. 

Animals breathe by means of a wonderful and beauti- 
ful set of machinery, which we are now ready to study. 

'3 1 



132 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



182. The Location of the Lungs. Strike the upper part 
of your right chest, just below the collar bone, with the 
flat of your hand. Now strike the knee in the same 
way. Notice what very different sounds you hear. 




FIG. 87. The Position of the Lungs, the Heart, and Some of the 
Great Vessels belonging to the Latter. (Posterior View) 

A, B, and C, large arteries (carotid) on left side of neck ; D, large vein 
(jugular) on left side of neck ; E, muscle running from the collar bone to 
the head ; f, large artery on right with branches to the head and the arm ; 
G, large artery on left (subclavian) running under the collar bone ; H, large 
vein ; A', thoracic duct 



WHY AND HOW WE BREATHE 



133 



The lungs, which you may think of as two large elastic 
bags, are placed one on each side of the chest, within the 
bony cage made by the breastbone, ribs, and backbone. 

The chest sounds hollow because the lungs within it 
are filled with air. 



Experiment. The sound 
made by the air as we 
breathe in and out of the 
lungs may be heard fairly 
well if we apply the ear 
flat to a friend's chest, with 
only one garment inter- 
posed. A much better idea 
of the respiratory sounds 
may be obtained by the use 
of a physician's stetho- 
scope. The teacher may 
show pupils how rxx place 
the instrument in a correct 
position over the front or 
back of the right side of 
the chest. The sounds 
of the heart should not be 
confused with those of 
breathing. 




FIG. 88. Schoolboy listening to the Sounds 
of Respiration in the Lungs of a School- 
mate with the Aid of a Stethoscope 

(From a photograph taken in the schoolroom) 



183. How the Lungs 
look. How do the 
lungs look ? They are 
two large pinkish organs, which occupy almost all of the 
chest cavity. They are made up of spongy tissue, the 
cavities in which, called air sacs, are filled with air. 



134 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

The next time you go to the market, ask the market- 
man to show you the lungs, or " lights," as he calls them, 
of a calf or a sheep. Cut off a small piece, and exam- 
ine it at home carefully. Take a piece in your hand and 
you will find it quite light and soft. It sinks under your 
finger if you press it, and rises again like a sponge. You 
will also notice a crackling sound, caused by air being 
forced out of the air sacs. If it is thrown into water, it 
will float. 

184. The Air Passages. We breathe air into the lungs 
through the mouth, the nostrils, and the windpipe. 

The nose warms and filters the air somewhat before 
it starts on its journey to the lungs ; hence we see how 
important it is to breathe through the nose at all times. 

If you lean your head back, you can easily feel in the 
middle of the neck, in front, a stiff tube. This is the wind- 
pipe, which opens into the back of the mouth and serves 
as a passageway for the incoming and outgoing air. 

185. The Epiglottis. There is a small lid of gristle, 
like the tongue of a little bird, in front of the open top 
of the windpipe, which, as you have been told before, is 
called the epiglottis. It shuts down when food is pass- 
ing by ; hence it does not in health prevent the air from 
entering the windpipe. (Sec. 1 24.) 

186. The Vocal Cords. The upper part of the windpipe 
is not unlike a kind of box and contains the organs of 
voice. In this box are the vocal cords. The front of this 



WHY AND HOW WE BREATHE 



'35 



box, easily seen in thin men, is commonly called "Adam's 
Apple." The vocal cords are not strings, but elastic 
strips, with free edges, which can be made tight or loose. 

As the air passes to and from the 
lungs through the narrow chink 
between these cords, it sets them 
to vibrating, and thus the sound 
called the voice is produced. Dur- 
ing ordinary breathing the vocal 
cords are widely separated. 

187. The Bronchial Tubes. The 
windpipe passes down into the 
chest, and divides into two 
branches called bronchi, one going 
to each lung. These divide into 
other branches, called bronchial 
tubes, and these into more 
branches, and so on. Thus each 
bronchial tube keeps on dividing 
into smaller and smaller branches, 
the tubes becoming finer with 
every division, until they are 
smaller than the tiniest hair. 

188. The Air Sacs. Each one of the little bronchial 
tubes has on its end a little bag, called an air sac, some- 
what like a red currant on its stalk, only much smaller 
than a grain of sand. 




FIG. 89. BLACKBOARD 

SKETCH 

Diagram of a Sectional View 
of Nasal and Throat Pas- 
sages 

C, nasal cavities ; T, tongue ; 
Z, lower jaw ; M, mouth; 
U, uvula ; E, epiglottis ; G, 
larynx ; O, gullet, or oesoph- 
agus 



136 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



Imagine a short, thick tree crowded with leaves; 
imagine the trunk and all the branches, even the small- 
est twigs, to be hollow. Suppose the leaves were tiny 
elastic bags, blown up, and fastened to the smallest 

hollow twigs. Roughly 
speaking, this is some- 
what like the structure 
of the innermost parts 
of the lungs. 

189. How the Air 
Tubes are provided with 
Blood Vessels. - 
Around this frame- 
work of hollow 
branches, called bron- 
chial tubes, and elastic 
bags, called air sacs, 
FIG. 90. BLACKBOARD SKETCH IS wrapped a finely 

Diagram of a Small Bronchial Tube and its WOVCn network of ar- 
Divisions into very Small Branches, also teries, veins, and Capil- 
showing Groups of Air Sacs at the Ter- i -r -11 

* ....... lanes. You will get a 

mination of Minute Bronchial Tubes 

better idea of this if 

you think of a child's ball which you may have seen 
covered with a fine network of red and blue yarn. 

The air fills the cavities in the lungs when the chest 
becomes larger, just as it fills a pair of bellows when 
the handles are separated. When the chest becomes 




WHY AND HOW WE BREATHE 



137 



smaller the air is driven out, as it is from the bellows 
when the handles are brought nearer to each other. 

190. How we breathe. How do we draw our breath? 
Let us try to learn something about it. The air tubes 
and air sacs make up about one half of the substance of 
the lungs, and nearly 
the other half consists 
of blood vessels. Both 
the blood vessels and 
the air sacs are sup- 
ported by a framework 
of elastic tissue. 




Experiment. To measure 
the chest and also to show 
how the chest varies in size 
during respiration. Stand 
before a mirror with the 
shoulders well thrown back. 
While breathing naturally 
pass a tape around the body 
just under the arms, bring- 
ing the ends of the tape to- 
gether across the front of the 
chest. Take the exact meas- 
ure. Take a long, deep 
breath, letting the tape slip 

through the fingers until the chest is fully expanded. Note the 
measurement. Now let out the breath slowly and fully, and measure 
as before. Note the difference in inches between the act of inspira- 
tion and that of expiration. This difference, usually about three 
inches, is the expansive power of the chest. 



FIG. 91. Schoolgirl finding the Expan- 
sive Power of the Chest by means of a 
Tape Measure 

(From a photograph taken in the schoolroom) 



138 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

We know that we can stretch a piece of elastic to a 
certain length, and then it springs back to its first size. 
In somewhat the same way the elastic tissue of the lungs 
acts. It is stretched as the air is drawn into the air 
tubes. It returns to its first size as soon as we stop 
drawing in the breath, and so presses on the larger air 
tubes and forces the air out of them. 

191. The Work done by the Diaphragm and other Muscles. 
- The lungs are attached on the under side to a great 
muscle called the diaphragm. This, as you already know, 
stretches like a stout piece of rubber cloth between the 
chest and the abdomen. In its natural position it 
bulges upwards in the middle, like a handkerchief 
swollen by the wind, and thus occupies a portion of the 
chest at the expense of the lungs. (Fig. 87.) 

When we are about to breathe in air, the muscular 
fibers of the diaphragm tighten, and it becomes flat, just 
as you make the handkerchief flat by tightening it. 
The chest is thus enlarged. This gives the lungs room 
to expand, and they do so at once. As soon as this 
happens, air rushes in from the outside through the air 
passages into the little air sacs. This act of breathing 
in air is known as inspiration. 

Now when the diaphragm relaxes, the lungs contract, 
causing their elastic tissue to shrink again ; and so the 
air is forced out of the air sacs. This act of breathing 
out air is called expiration. 



WHY AND HOW WE BREATHE 



139 



These up-and-down movements of the diaphragm 
are the chief motions in ordinary quiet breathing. This 
process is repeated over and over 
again as long as we live. 

This faithful servant, the dia- 
phragm, quietly began its duties the 
moment we breathed for the first 
time. Since that time it has been 
on constant duty, taking part in 
every breath, and its last effort will 
be our last sigh. 

The muscles between the ribs, 
and other muscles of the chest also, 
contract and relax, first making the 
chest cavity larger, and then smaller, 
and are thus useful in the act of 
breathing. 

192. The Two Gases in Pure Air. 

., , . , , . Showing the Expansion 

There are two kinds of gases in of the Chest and the 

pure air. The first is very lively 

and active, called oxygen. It is very 

fond of uniting with other things and Th * dotted *"** f dicate 

the position of the chest 
burning them. Thus, Substances and ribs during a full 

like wire, which will not burn in 
ordinary air, will burn as readily as paper in oxygen. 
The second is a very slow, dull substance, called 
nitrogen, and nothing will burn in it. 




FIG. 92. BLACKBOARD 



Movements of the Ribs 
during Respiration 



1 40 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

Oxygen, if quite pure, would be altogether too active 
a gas for us to live in ; so kind Nature dilutes it with 
nitrogen. In the air we breathe these two gases are 
mixed in about the proportion of one fifth of oxygen to 
four fifths of nitrogen. 

193. What takes Place in the Lungs. When the air 
reaches the tiniest capillaries in the air sacs of the lungs, 
the oxygen it contains is almost in contact with the blood 
itself. There is only a very thin membrane between the 
blood and the air. 

Now, experiments prove that gases can pass through 
delicate membranes. If a bladder filled with oxygen is 
hung up in a bottle filled with carbon dioxide, the two 
gases will mix with each other. The oxygen will pass 
out through the walls of the bladder, and the carbon 
dioxide will pass in. This is in accordance with the law 
of science known as the diffusion of gases. 

This is practically what takes place in the lungs. Thus 
there is an exchange, but no robbery. The blood ex- 
changes a useless gas for one which gives it new life. 

We may, in brief, look upon the lungs as a kind of 
market place, or exchange, where two merchants, the 
blood and the air, meet to exchange their wares. About 
thirty cubic inches of air pass in and out of the lungs 
with every breath, or about what would fill sixty barrels 
every twenty-four hours. Indeed, we may well think of 
the lungs as a very busy market place. 



WHY AND HOW WE BREATHE 



141 



194. Changes in the Air from Breathing. When we 
breathe, we do not simply draw in the air and send it 
out again; but we breathe out some things which were 
not in the air when we took it in. 

With every breath we breathe out a small amount of 
animal matter from our bodies. This gives the air of an 
ill- ventilated or over-crowded room the close, disagreeable 
odor we all know so well. 
Pure air has no smell. 



Experiment. A simple ex- 
periment may show that the air 
we breathe out contains the gas 
known as carbon dioxide. Put 
a glass tube (a long straw or a 
sheet of stiff paper rolled into 
a tube may be used) into a tum- 
bler half full of clear limewater. 
If we breathe out or exhale 
through the tube, the liquid will 
soon become milky. The car- 
bon dioxide in the air breathed 
out unites with the lime held 
in solution and forms what is 
known as carbonate of lime. 




FIG. 93. Schoolboy testing for Car- 
bon Dioxide by breathing into Lime- 
water 



(From a photograph taken in the 
schoolroom) 



On a cold, frosty morn- 
ing we see the clouds of 
vapor, or very fine drops 
of water, coming from our mouths. In hot weather or 
in a warm room we do not see this vapor, but it is 
there. If we breathe on the bright blade of a jackknife, 



142 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

it becomes dim and damp with the moisture of the breath. 
There is, of course, a little watery vapor in the air, but 
hardly any compared to what there is in the breath. 

195. How Carbon Dioxide may poison us. As we have 
just learned, we send out with every breath a kind of gas, 
called carbon dioxide, which we cannot see any more than 
we can see the air. 

The animal matter which is always mixed with the 
carbon dioxide which we breathe out acts as a deadly 
poison. If there is too much of it in the air we breathe, 
it poisons us. We soon breathe hard, grow pale, faint, 
and dizzy, and after a time we should die. 

Perhaps you have read the dreadful story of the " Black 
Hole of Calcutta." Many years ago a cruel tyrant in 
India, having captured a hundred and forty-six English 
prisoners, crowded them one hot night into a room less 
than twenty feet square. Two little windows did not 
admit enough air for the poor captives to breathe. They 
struggled and fought for the air, and in the morning 
only twenty-three were alive. 

After one of Napoleon's great battles three hundred 
prisoners were crowded into a cave for safe-keeping, 
where in a few hours over two -hundred died from the 
foul air. 

196. Pure Air, and how it is kept so. One would think 
that all the pure air in the world would long ago have 
been breathed over and over again and have become bad. 



WHY AND HOW WE BREATHE 143 

Think for a moment what a great number of people have 
lived in the world. How many men, women, and chil- 
dren there are now, especially in great cities like New 
York and Chicago, all breathing out carbon dioxide and 
other impurities from their lungs. It seems strange that 
there is any air left fit for us to breathe. 

Why does not the supply of oxygen ever fall short? 
What becomes of the carbon dioxide ? First, let us 
see what the latter is made of, two very good things, 
oxygen and carbon. 

A great deal of our flesh and blood is made of these 
two things ; but when they are united, to make this gas, 
they are of no use to us. We might go to the store and 
buy salt and sugar ; but if they got mixed together as we 
brought them home, we could not use either, unless some 
good fairy could pick them apart for us. 

197. How Nature provides us with Pure Air. Now, can 
anybody separate the carbon and oxygen in the carbon 
dioxide, and thus make them fit for us to use again ? Yes, 
indeed. There are millions of workmen about us that are 
busily doing this very thing all the time. 

Every plant, every green leaf, every blade of grass, is 
doing this for us. When the sun shines on them, they 
pick the carbon out, and send back the oxygen for us to 
breathe. They keep the carbon, and give it back to us 
in our plant and animal food. Is not this a wonderful 
arrangement ? 



144 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



Experiments. Important changes in the air during respiration 
may be shown with simple apparatus. Expired air is warmer than 
the ordinary air of a room. Note the temperature of a room as 
shown by the thermometer. Breathe for a few moments on the bulb 
of a thermometer. The mercury rises. 

There is more moisture in the air expired. Note that the polished 
bulb of a thermometer is free from moisture ; breathe upon it and it 

becomes covered with a film of 
moisture. 

Another change is in the 
amount of carbon dioxide in 
the expired air. Use a bottle 
with a rubber stopper fitted with 
two glass tubes, each bent at a 
right angle. One tube is short 
and projects only two inches or 
so into the bottle. The other 
tube reaches nearly to the bot- 
tom of the bottle. Fill the bottle 
half full of limewater. Put the 
mouth to the shorter tube, draw- 
ing air into the lungs which 
comes through the limewater. 
There is no change in the lime- 
water, as the outside air has 
little or no carbon dioxide. Now 
put the mouth to the longer 
tube and breathe out the air in 
the lungs through the limewater. 




FIG. 94. Schoolgirl performing 
Experiments to show Changes in 
the Air during Respiration 

(From a photograph taken in the 
schoolroom) 



The limewater becomes milky, as shown in the experiment, page 141. 

How does all the bad air get out of the towns and 
cities where men live? How is it carried over the 
mountains and across the lakes and plains? The wind 
carries it. Air is constantly moving about, rising up, 



WHY AND HOW WE BREATHE 145 

falling down, sweeping this way or that way, and blow- 
ing from place to place. In brief, as the Bible tells us, 
" The wind bloweth where it listeth " (pleases). 

198. How People poison themselves with Impure Air. 
Not only the little particles out of our breath may 

make the air unwholesome, but also many other things. 
Even pleasant odors, like those of roses or lilies, are un- 
wholesome if shut up in a room. 

Dirty walls, ceilings, and floors give the air a bad 
smell ; so do dirty clothes, filthy sinks, damp cellars, and 
the contents of slop pails. 

While all we have told you about pure air applies to 
persons in health, it applies still more to sick people. 
First, because sick people need every possible aid to get 
well. They need good air just as much as they need good 
food. Second, because everything that comes from a sick 
person's body is more unwholesome than what comes 
from a healthy person, and may be a downright poison. 

199. How the Germs of Disease may be carried about in 
the Air. Many learned men now believe that numerous 
diseases are really sown in our bodies by a kind of very 
small seed, or " germ." For instance, scarlet fever, it is 
believed, has its own seeds, or germs, which are shed in 
countless numbers from the body of a person who is suf- 
fering from it. Some of these float in the air; and if we 
breathe them in, they are quite likely to give us the fever 
if we have not already had it. The same may be true 



146 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



of measles, smallpox, whooping cough, and other conta- 
gious diseases. 

200. Other Ways in which the Air may become Unwhole- 
some. Many other things make the air unwholesome. 

The foul air from chem- 
ical works, bone and 
soap factories, garbage 
heaps, sewer and drain 
pipes, and many other 
places is more or less 
hurtful to health. 

Experiment. Place a 
short lighted candle on a table 
and cover it with a quart fruit 
jar. The flame will soon go 
out because the burning can- 
dle has burnt up the oxygen, 
which has been replaced by 
carbon dioxide. Even if we 
draw the jar carefully to the 
edge of the table and allow 
the candle to drop out, the 
air in the jar will remain im- 
pure. This is shown by put- 
ting up the burning candle 
again, as in Fig. 95, and noting 
that the flame will go out at 
once. If we change the air by waving the jar to and fro several 
times, the candle will burn with a bright flame for a few moments. 




FIG. 95. Schoolboy performing Experi- 
ments to show that the Air we breathe 
out is impure 

(From a photograph taken in the school- 
room) 



Certain trades shorten life by the exposure of the 
worker to air loaded with impurities. Thus there is the 



WHY AND HOW WE BREATHE 



" miner's consumption," due to the dust breathed into the 
lungs. Those who work on steel, emery, pottery, etc., 
also breathe in the irritating dust floating in the air. The 
dust in match factories, 
white-lead works, cop- 
per and brass foundries, 
and from arsenic in wall 
papers are highly injuri- 
ous to the lungs. 

Experiment. A simple 
experiment with a fruit jar 
proves that the air we breathe 
out is impure. Place a piece 
of cardboard over the mouth 
of a fruit jar (Fig. 96). Pass 
a glass tube into the jar 
through a hole in the board. 
Through the tube breathe in 
and out from the jar several 
times. Carefully invert the 
jar and test with the candle 
as in Fig. 95. The flame will 
go out at once, as the candle 
will not burn in the carbon 
dioxide which is exhaled and 
which has replaced the 

oxygen of the pure air. In brief, we breathe out air that is as im- 
pure as that which put out the candle in the preceding experiment. 

201. Ventilation, or how to get rid of Impure Air. How 
are we to get rid of the bad air in our living rooms, and 
get in fresh air without being too cold ? In summer this 




FIG. 96. Schoolboy performing Experi- 
ments to show Changes in the Air that 
we breathe out 

(From a photograph taken in the school- 
room) 



148 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

is quite easy; but in winter it is more difficult, because 
it is very uncomfortable and often dangerous to be cold. 

It is a good plan to open our windows at the top, 
thus letting out the bad air. If we have a good fire 
and proper clothing, it is very seldom that we cannot 
bear the window open a little way at the top. 

Another excellent plan is to raise the lower sash, put- 
ting below it a strip of board two or three inches wide 
and as long as the width of the window, and shut the 
sash on it. This leaves an opening for fresh air at 
the middle of the window. 

202. The Ventilation of Bedrooms. Good ventilation is 
just as necessary by night as by day, because, of course, 
we go on breathing all night. People who take pains 
to shut in the bad air, and to shut out the good air, all 
night long, cannot expect to awake refreshed. 

It is very unpleasant to go into such bedrooms before 
they have been aired in the morning. It is not strange 
that persons sleeping in such rooms are often languid, 
pale, or peevish during the first part of the day. 

People are sometimes afraid of letting in night air 
because they think it is unwholesome. This is not true. 
Those who have tried it know very well that they sleep 
better, and awake fresher, if they keep the air of their 
bedrooms clean and sweet all night. As the famous 
nurse, Florence Nightingale, aptly said, " What air other 
than night air can we breathe at night ? " 



WHY AND HOW WE BREATHE 149 

There is hardly a night in the whole year when it is 
not safe to keep a bedroom window open at least an inch 
or two at the top. We must have, however, proper cover- 
ings on our beds to keep us warm. 

203. The Effects of Alcohol and Tobacco upon the Air Pas- 
sages. Catarrh of the air passages is especially com- 
mon with those who have injured themselves by alco- 
holic drinks. Those who have studied the causes of 
consumption tell us that these drinks may prepare the 
way for this dread disease. Besides making the drinker 
careless about exposing himself to cold and wet, the use 
of alcoholic liquors renders him less able to resist an at- 
tack of pneumonia, or the germs that cause consumption. 

Breathing air full of tobacco smoke is apt to cause 
sore throat. The habit of inhaling tobacco smoke, or 
breathing it through the nose, is injurious to the throat 
and the lungs. Cigarette smoke, especially, may irritate 
and inflame the air passages. 



150 HOW TO KEEP WELL 



QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW 

1. What familiar examples can you give showing that all animals 
breathe ? 

2. What is meant by breathing, or respiration ? 

3. What are the lungs, and where are they located ? 

4. Describe the appearance of the lungs. 

5. Describe the nostrils and the windpipe. 

6. What part does the epiglottis play ? 

7. Show how the voice is produced. 

8. What are bronchial tubes ? 

9. Describe air sacs. 

10. How are the air tubes provided with blood vessels ? 

11. Tell something about the work done by the diaphragm. 

12. Describe in full the process of breathing. 

13. What two gases are in pure air ? 

14. What takes place in the lungs during breathing ? 

15. What important changes take place in the air from breathing? 

16. Tell what you can about the poisonous effects of carbon 
dioxide. 

17. How is the air kept pure ? 

18. How are people poisoned by breathing impure air ? 

19. How does Nature provide us with pure air ? 

20. Show how the germs of disease may be carried about in the 
air. 

21. In what other ways may the air become unwholesome ? Give 
illustrations from trades which tend to shorten life. 

22. How may we get rid of impure air in our living rooms by some 
simple means of ventilation ? 

23. Give some practical plans of ventilation. 

24. What can you tell about the ventilation of bedrooms ? 

25. What are the effects of alcohol and tobacco upon the air 
passages ? 



CHAPTER X 

HOW OUR BODIES ARE COVERED 

204. Getting rid of Waste Matters. When a fire in a 
stove or furnace burns, it uses up coal and wood, leav- 
ing dust and ashes behind. These must be got rid of 
before fresh fuel will burn readily. Our bodies are doing 
something very similar. They are all the time using up 
food, and are all the time making waste matter which 
must be got rid of. 

205. The Outlets for Waste Matter. There are several 
outlets by which the body rids itself of its waste products. 

One of these is the intestines, which, as we have 
learned, help rid the body of certain waste matters from 
the food which we eat. 

A second is the lungs, which carry off, as we have 
seen, carbon dioxide, water, and animal matter. 

A third outlet is the kidneys, which filter off water 
holding a number of salts and other substances dissolved 
in it. The action of the kidneys is explained in the 
more advanced books on this subject. 

Let us now see how a fourth outlet of the body, or 
the skin, helps to purify the body of waste matters. 



152 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



206. The Skin. Our body is covered with a soft, elas- 
tic, tight-fitting garment, the skin. It fits even more 
neatly than a kid glove, and yet is so elastic that it yields 
to every movement of the parts which it covers. The 
skin protects the soft parts beneath and prevents too 
great a loss of the bodily heat. 

207. The True Skin. It is quite easy to run a fine 
needle through the outer skin without feeling it or draw- 
ing blood ; but push the needle in a little deeper and it 

hurts, and the blood will run. Why 
is this? Simply because there is a 
lower, thicker layer called the true 
skin, which is full of the finest blood 
vessels and nerves. 

We all know how very tender 
is the delicate pink skin seen 
when the outer layer of a blister is 
torn away. This is the true skin. 
A deep cut through this results in 
a scar. See if you can find such a 
scar on your hand. 

208. The Outer or Scarfskin. Over 




FIG. 97. Cross Section 
of Skin. (Magnified 
30 diameters) 

A, outer layer of scarfskin ; 

B, deeper layer of scarf- , , i i- i r fl t i-r 

skin; C, duct of sweat tne true 5 a laver nar > " 

gland; A true skin i ess SC ales, in which are no blood 
vessels and no nerves. This is called the scarfskin, or 
epidermis. We often give ourselves a little scratch with- 
out making the blood run, or feeling any pain. It is 



HOW OUR BODIES ARE COVERED 



153 




the scarfskin which is raised into a blister when we 
burn our fingers. The scarfskin really consists of a 
countless number of little scales, laid one above another, 
somewhat as several layers of shingles might be laid on 
the roof of a house. The outer scales are 
all the time wearing off and new ones are 
always forming underneath. 

209. How we get rid of the Scarfskin. 
A snake, as you may know, sheds its whole 
skin at once, as if a boy should crawl out 
of his clothes; and sometimes you may 
find in the fields its cast-off sk'in turned 

inside out, just as the snake squirmed out FlG g outer 

of it and crawled off wearing a soft new 

dress. Perhaps you have watched a toad 

in your garden pull off his coarse, warty 

skin. We shed our skin a little at a time, and in such 

tiny, powdery scales that we cannot usually see them. 

If we take a garment that has been worn next to the 
skin and shake it in the sunlight, we see how much 
dust there is inside of it. Much of this dust is really 
bits of the scarfskin which have dropped off or worn 
away. Where the skin is pretty thick, as on the palms 
of the hands or the soles of the feet, we can, when we 
bathe, see the dead skin peeling off in little scales. 

210. What gives the Skin its Color. Did you ever 
think why the skin of some people is quite fair and of 



Skin as shown 
on the Bottom 
of the Foot 



154 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

others is very dark? What variety of tints we can see 
in the faces of the people we meet every day ! The 
deeper layer of the outer skin contains a large number 
of paint or pigment cells, in which coloring matter is 
stored. This is the reason why some races have white 
or black, and others red or yellow skins. 

Sometimes the sun or a cold wind may act upon these 
paint cells and make dark colored spots upon the skin. 
When Nature thus spatters her drops of paint upon the 
skin in various parts of the body, we call them freckles, 
liver spots, and by other names. 

211. The Sweat Glands. If we look at the skin on the 
tips of the fingers through a magnifying glass we see 
a great number of little holes called pores. Just think 
how small they are ! More than three thousand have 
been counted to the square inch on the skin of the 
palm, and we are told that there are more than two 
and one half millions of them in the covering: of the 

o 

whole body. 

Each pore is the end or opening of a tube called a 
sweat gland. Each gland is a tiny tube just under the 
scarfskin, rolled round and round like a loosely wound 
ball of the finest silk. Perhaps you have seen candy 
rolled and twisted in and out upon itself in this same 
way. If all the sweat glands in our body could be 
unrolled, and laid end to end like a long gas pipe, they 
would extend more than two miles. 



HOW OUR BODIES ARE COVERED 



212. The Work done by the Sweat Glands. What work 
do these sweat glands do? A very important work, 
indeed. Let me tell you about it. Certain waste matter 
picked up by the blood is strained out through the thin 
walls of the blood vessels into the 
sweat glands, up which it rises 
until it oozes out of the open- 
ings, when it is called sweat, or 
perspiration. 

Experiments. The living skin can 
be examined only in a general way. 
Stretch and pull it, and notice that it is 
elastic. Examine the outer skin care- 
fully with a strong magnifying glass. 
Study the little hillocks, or papillae. 

Study the openings of the sweat glands 

with the aid of a strong magnifying glass. T 

,, . , . , FIG. QQ. Schoolboy examm- 

1 hey are conveniently examined on the . '. O i ^ i 

' J ing the Skm m the Palm 

with the Aid of a Magnify- 
ing Glass 




(From a photograph taken in 
the schoolroom) 



Dip the end of a wooden toothpick 
into some thick ink and spread it very 
thin over the end of the forefinger, or 
press the end of the finger on a color 

pad. Now press the finger tip on a piece of heavy, uncoated paper. 
Study the impression made by the ridges on the finger. 

If we hold the tip of a finger very close to a mirror, 
but without touching the glass, we soon see a moist spot 
on the glass. This is because the sweat has oozed out of 
the pores of our finger and collected on the mirror. If the 



156 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



mirror were held to any other part of the skin, it would 
also become dim and moist. (Experiment, page 168.) 

213. How the Weather may affect the Work of the Sweat 
Glands. The sweat glands thus serve as little drainpipes 
to rid our bodies of waste matters. When the weather is 
very hot, or when we are working hard, 
or are exposed to much heat, the sweat 
flows so freely that it may stand on the 
skin in big drops ; but at other times it 
flows more slowly. Still, it is always 
oozing out, even in the coldest winter 
weather. About two pints of sweat 
flow every day through these busy little 
glands in the skin. 

214. The Oil Glands. The skin is 
naturally soft, and the hair, growing 
from it, is soft and glossy. What makes 
them so? Two little oil glands, attached 
to each hair, furnish this natural dress- 
FIG. TOO. Vertical ing for the hair and the skin. We may 
Sectionof the Skin, ca n it Nature's hair oil. 

showing a Sweat _,.. ,.. . 

Gland with its 215 ' Wh y we need to kee P clean. A 
Duct great deal of the sweat soaks into our 

The sweat gland may clothing, which therefore needs frequent 

be traced through i i r . i . i 

the true skin to its washing; but most of the moisture dries 

outlet in the homy Q ff mto ^g ^ an( J t h us helps to COOl 
layers of the outer 

skin the body. Some of the oily matter, 




HOW OUR BODIES ARE COVERED 



157 




however, sticks to the skin, and together with the dirt or 
dust from the outside makes a little plug, as it were, 
over the pores. If the pores are thus stopped up, the 
waste matter cannot filter through the skin. It has to 
stay in the body, or find its way out elsewhere. 

216. Effect of stopping up the Drainpipes of the Body. - 
Suppose the drainpipes which lead from a house should 
get stopped up ; we can imagine what an unwholesome 
state the house would 

soon be in. Just so it 
is with the body if the 
little pipes which drain 
the skin get clogged. 
If all the pores of our 
skin were stopped up 
we should die within 
a few hours. 

217. How the Skin can absorb Poisons as well as Helpful 
Things. The pores of the skin can take in or absorb 
very small quantities of a few things. Doctors some- 
times rub various oils into the skin of feeble or thin per- 
sons to make them stronger or fatter. Ointments with 
medicines in them are also rubbed into the skin. 

The ancient Greeks used to rub oil into the skin 
after a hot bath. It was once the fashion for fine ladies 
to bathe in hot milk to improve their health. Ship- 
wrecked sailors and others who are unable to get fresh 



FIG. 101. Surface of Palm of the Hand, 
showing Openings of Sweat Glands 
and Grooves between Papillae of the 
Skin. (Magnified 4 diameters) 

In the smaller figure the same surface of the 
skin is shown as seen with the naked eye 



158 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

water often soak their clothing in salt water to ease 
their intense thirst. 

The skin may absorb harmful substances through a 
tear from a hangnail or even through a simple scratch. 
House painters are often poisoned by the lead which they 
handle in their paint. Poisons are frequently absorbed 
by the skin from plants, such as dogwood and poison ivy. 

218. The Discovery of Vaccination. The fact that the 
skin easily absorbs certain infectious matters is made 
use of in the process of vaccination. Many years ago 
smallpox was very common and very fatal. Even the 
cows suffered from cowpox, a form of the same disease. 
English people noticed that the young women who 
milked the infected cows did not often have the real 
smallpox but only a lighter and less fatal form of the 
disease. A young medical student in England, named 
Edward Jenner, studied long and hard to explain this 
remarkable fact. His experiments resulted after many 
years in the discovery of vaccination, a discovery which 
has saved thousands from death by this dread disease. 
The crowning experiment, or the first vaccination, was 
performed on a small boy whom Jenner inoculated with 
matter taken from the hand of a milkmaid who had been 
directly infected by the cow. This was in the year 1796, 
three years before Washington died. 

219. We need Clean Skin and Clean Clothes. How 
necessary it is to have a clean skin and to wear clean 



HOW OUR BODIES ARE COVERED 



159 



clothes ! Many people think they have done quite enough 
if they wash their hands and faces every day. 

We must not forget that it is just as necessary to wash 
the parts of the body that are not exposed to the air 




FIG. 102. The First Vaccination, the Crowning Experiment of 
Dr. Edward Jenner 

(Based upon a photograph of a famous French painting) 

and are covered with clothing. The reason is very 
plain, for you must remember that the waste matter that 
collects on these parts from the inside of the body is 
just as unwholesome as the outside dirt that gathers 
on the hands and face. 



160 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

220. Hints on taking a Bath. A cold bath just after 
getting out of bed in the morning is one of the best of 
tonics. It rouses the nervous system and gives vigor 
to the circulation. A warm bath at bedtime is refresh- 
ing, and favors sound sleep. There is little risk of taking 
cold if we go to bed at once. 

Most persons, especially the young and vigorous, soon 
get used to cool, and even cold baths. The first effect 
of any cold bath is to shrivel up the skin and make it 
look like "goose flesh." Brisk rubbing with a coarse towel 
will soon bring on a reaction as it is called, after which 
a genial glow is felt all over the person. 

221. Hints on Swimming. Swimming in fresh water 
or in salt water has a wholesome effect on the skin, and 
is one of the most healthful of exercises. 

So highly did the Romans regard swimming, that, to 
express their contempt for an ignorant person, they 
would say, " He can neither read nor swim." All young 
people should be taught to swim. 

Never go into the water soon after eating, or when 
overheated or very tired. Sit down quietly and rest or 
cool off first. Many persons are drowned every year 
from ignorance or carelessness in these matters. The 
risk is from sudden cramps, which cause even a strong 
swimmer to sink like a lump of lead. Alexander the 
Great once nearly lost his life by swimming in a very 
cold river just after a full meal. 



HOW OUR BODIES ARE COVERED 



161 



222. The Hair. The hair and the nails really belong 
to the skin. 

The hair grows out from little sacs or bags in the 
skin, and so do the nails. Every hair has a little bulb 
or root, which is fixed in the skin, and soaks up the 
nourishment from the blood vessels. Each little hair has 
fibers of muscles attached to it which 
may make the hair stand up. We 
have all seen the hair of a cat or a dog 
begin to bristle when it was angry. 

223. Why the Hair should be kept 
Clean. The hair should be washed, 
combed, and brushed. The reason 
is plain. The oil glands get clogged; 
and the dust and the dirt, making 
rapidly on the scalp a coating, com- 
monly called dandruff, get caught in 
the hair; hence it adds to comfort 
and health to keep the hair clean. 

224. The Color of the Hair. The 
color of the hair, as well as that of 
the skin, is given to it by pigment. 
Little cells filled with this coloring 
matter are attached to the root of the 
hair. In some people, especially old 
persons, the hair for some reason loses 
its color, or, as we say, turns gray. 




FIG. 103. Hair and 
. Hair Follicle 

A, root of hair; B, bulb 
of hair ; C, D, sheaths 
or coverings of root of 
hair ; , outer covering 
of follicle ; F, muscular 
fibers attached to fol- 
licle ; H, oil gland with 
its duct, K\ L, simple 
oil gland ; M, opening 
of hair follicle 



l62 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 




Suaden fright or great sorrow will sometimes turn 
the hair white in the course of a few hours. It is said 
that at the time of the cruel Revolution in France the 
hair of the poor French queen, Marie Antoinette, turned 
white in a single night, owing to the distress and agony 

of mind she suffered for the safety 
of her husband and children. 

225. The Nails. The nails of 
the fingers and toes grow out 
from the skin like broad, flat 
hairs, and are really only a kind 
of scarfskin. 

Some people, especially school 
children, spoil the looks of their 
fingers by biting their nails. 
Instead of pretty oval, bright 
pink, shell-like ornaments, as they should be, we see 
only ugly, stumpy fingers, with sore tips to them, which 
can feel nothing delicately or tenderly. 

226. Care of the Nails. --The finger nails should be 
trimmed with scissors once a week, leaving them long 
enough to protect the ends of the fingers. The nails 
should never be trimmed to the quick. They should 
not be cleaned with anything harder than a bit of 
soft wood or an orange stick. They should not be 
scraped with a penknife or scissors, as this will hurt 
their nice polish. 



FIG. 104. Cross Section 
of One Fourth of a Hu- 
man Hair. (Magnified 
about 300 diameters) 



HOW OUR BODIES ARE COVERED 



To prevent hangnails, the skin should be often loosened 
from the nail, not with a knife or scissors, but with some- 
thing blunt, such as the handle of a nail brush, an ivory 
paper cutter, or better still, the end of an orange stick. 

227. Effect of Tobacco on the Skin. - 
Tobacco gives the skin a peculiar dry 
and sallow look. If a confirmed tobacco 
user be put in a warm bath the odor of 
the tobacco may be easily perceived in 
the room when he comes out. 

This is because the pores of his skin 
become saturated with tobacco. But 
we need not put the tobacco user into 
a bath to discover this. The odor of 
tobacco is constantly passing out of his 
skin through his clothes, until they be- 
come so filled with it that we can smell 
it as we pass him on the street. 

The smoker, however, may be entirely unconscious 
of this. His senses may be so blunted that he fails to 
notice the odors that make him offensive to many people 
with whom he has* to do. 




FIG. 105. Nail in 
Position 

A, fold of skin turned 
back to show root of 
nail ; B, fold of skin 
covering root of nail ; 
C, half-moon-shaped 
whitish portion ; Z>, 
body of nail 



1 64 HOW TO KEEP WELL 



QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW 

1. In respect to getting rid of waste matter, how may the body be 
compared to a stove or furnace ? 

2. In what four different ways does the body get rid of its waste 
matter ? 

3. In a general way, what may be said about the skin ? 

4. Describe the true skin. 

5. How will you describe the scarfskin ? 

6. Show how we get rid of the outer layers of the scarfskin. 

7. What gives the skin its color ? 

8. How will you describe the sweat glands ? 

9. Give in full the work done by the sweat glands. 

10. How does the weath'er affect the work of the sweat glands ? 

11. What are oil glands? 

12. Why do we need to keep our bodies clean ? 

13. What are the effects of stopping the drainpipes of the body ? 

14. Show how the skin may absorb helpful things. 

15. How may poisons be absorbed by the skin ? 

16. Give in some detail the facts about Jenner's discovery of 
vaccination. 

17. Give some reasons why we need a clean skin and clean clothes. 

18. What hints can you give on taking a bath ? 
.19. Give some practical points on swimming. 

20. Describe the hair in some detail. 

21. Why should the hair be kept clean ? 

22. What gives the hair its color ? 

23. What illustrations on this point can you give ? 

24. Describe the nails, and give some hints about their care. 

25. What is the effect of tobacco on the skin ? 



CHAPTER XI 

HOW OUR BODIES ARE KEPT WARM 

228. How we know that we are warm. Everybody 
knows that our bodies feel warm to the touch. If we get 
into a cold bed on a winter's night, the body soon warms 
it. However cold we feel at first, the heat of our bodies, 
like a fire always burning, keeps up warmth in the bed. 

Put a doctor's thermometer under your tongue, and 
close the lips around it for five minutes. What do we 
find? On taking out the instrument we find that the 
natural heat of the body is between 98 and 99 Fahren- 
heit; that is, the temperature of the body is always the 
same, whether on the coldest day of winter or the hottest 
day of summer. Of course the skin may feel hot or cold 
at different times, but in health the temperature of the 
body within is kept the same. 

Where does this heat come from ? How does the 
body make this heat? It will help us to understand 
this to recall what we have already been told about air 
in Chapter IX. 

229. How a Burning Candle produces Heat. Oxygen, as 
we learned, easily unites with other things, and burns 

them. When oxygen unites with any other thing, it 

165 



1 66 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

always makes some heat. As the larger books tell us, 
this is called oxidation, or burning, whether there is any 
flame or not. When a candle is burning, the different 
things of which the candle is made unite with oxygen 
and make carbon dioxide. 

There is another gas in the candle, called hydrogen, 
which unites with oxygen and forms water. .This burn- 
ing goes on very fast indeed, and makes the candle hot. 

230. How our Bodies produce Heat. In some ways we 
are much like a candle. We know there is plenty of car- 
bon in our bodies, and also plenty of hydrogen; when 
the oxygen of the air unites with these they burn, as a 
candle does, only much more slowly, and turn into 
carbon dioxide and water, thus producing heat. 

Since these things do not burn so fast in the moist 
tissues of the body as they do in the candle, therefore 
we do not flame and blaze up, and we are not nearly 
so hot as a lighted candle. 

A piece of fat, for instance, burns rapidly and brightly 
when put into the fire. If w r e eat a piece of fat, it will 
make just as much heat within our bodies as if we burned 
it in the fire. True, the burning will not be so rapid, 
but it will last a much longer time. The total quantity 
of heat given out will be the same in both cases. 

Hence the tissues of our bodies, especially the muscles, 
are all the time producing heat, because they are burning 
away bit by bit, just as a candle does. Every time we 



HOW OUR BODIES ARE KEPT WARM 



I6 7 



move, feel, think, or, in fact, do anything at all, this burn- 
ing goes on. Now, if heat is especially produced in the 
muscles, it is plain that the more we work with them the 
warmer we shall be. This is true, and this is why we 
throw our arms about and stamp our feet when we are cold. 

Experiments. Borrow a physician's clinical thermometer, and 
take your own temperature, and that of several friends, by placing 
the instrument under the tongue, closing the mouth, and holding it 
there for five minutes. Read it 
while in position, or the instant 
the instrument is removed. The 
natural temperature is about 
98^ Fahr. The thermometer 
should be thoroughly cleansed 
after each use. 

A substitute for a clinical 
thermometer may be readily 
contrived by taking an ordinary 
house thermometer from its tin 
case and cutting off the lower 
part of the scale so that the bulb 
may project freely. 

The little thermometers often 
found on calendars and adver- 
tising circulars may be used, al- FIG. 106. Schoolboy taking his own 




Temperature with an Improvised 
Thermometer 



(From a photograph taken in the 
class room) 



though the bodily temperature 
will not be shown accurately. 

With these instruments the 
pupils may take their own and 
each other's temperatures, and it will be found that, whatever the 
season of the year or the temperature of the room, the thermometer 
in the mouth will record about 98 Fahr. Care must be taken to 
keep the thermometer in the mouth till the fluid ceases to rise. 



1 68 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



231. How the Bodily Heat is regulated. How is it that 
the warmth of the body is the same at every season of 
the year and in every climate ? 

If we put a drop of cold water on the back of the hand 
we feel the skin there grow colder; this is because the 
heat required to evaporate the liquid is taken from the 
skin. As the sweat evaporates from the skin, it carries 
off heat and leaves the skin colder. 

The hotter the air outside of us, the more we sweat ; 
but as fast as the sweat oozes out of the pores it evapo- 
rates, and so cools the skin. 
Thus in health the heat of 
the skin and the blood is 
kept from rising above its 
natural temperature. 

Experiment A simple experi- 
ment may illustrate the activity of 
the sweat glands. Hold the fore- 
finger (when the body feels cool) 
very close to a cold mirror. A 
moist spot soon appears on the 

glass. This is sweat which has oozed out of the pores of the 

finger and collected on the cool mirror. 

232. Effect of Occupation upon Bodily Heat. If the air 

outside is very cold, the pores contract, and very little 
sweat oozes out of them. Thus in summer, and in hot 
countries, the abundant sweating tends to cool our 
bodies ; while in winter and in cold countries, since little 




FIG. 107. Showing the Activity 
of the Sweat Glands 



HOW OUR BODIES ARE KEPT WARM 169 

sweating takes place, the body does not lose much heat. 
Men who have to work around great hot furnaces, as 
in iron foundries and glass works, are no hotter inside 
their bodies than those who handle ice during the winter 
months, or work in cold storage rooms. 

Persons have been known to go without injury for a 
few minutes into ovens hot enough to bake bread. Years 
ago there was a man called the u Fire King," who could 
go into a very hot oven and stay five minutes. It was 
found that while he was in the oven the temperature 
of his blood was exactly the same as when he entered it. 
We may be sure that he used to sweat profusely. 

Young girls in France who work in the bake shops go 
into large ovens when they are very hot, in order to 
attend to the loaves of bread. 

233. Effect of Climate upon Bodily Heat. The blood 
may become hotter or colder from causes within us, 
for instance, fevers make it hotter ; want of food makes 
it colder, but it has the power of resisting the heat 
and the cold outside the body. 

People are able to live in all climates because the blood 
always keeps at about the same degree of warmth, what- 
ever the heat or the cold outside. 

The Eskimo, who lives amid the ice and snow of 
polar regions, has as much warmth in his blood as the 
African, who lives under the scorching sun of the 
tropics. 



1 70 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

234. Why we need Clothing. Nature gives us thin 
and delicate skin as our only covering. Why do we need 
any other? Why do we need clothing? 

In ordinary weather our bodies are, as you know, much 
warmer than the air out of doors, so they are continually 
giving out their heat to the air. Heat is lost from the 
body in several ways, as in the air we breathe out, 
but chiefly from the skin. When the bare skin is ex- 
posed, we lose heat rapidly, and feel chilly and cold; 
hence we wear clothes to keep the heat of our bodies 
from escaping too rapidly into the air. 

There are other reasons. In summer, especially in 
hot countries, the direct rays of the sun tend to burn 
the skin. Again, clothes save the skin from being 
torn or hurt by accidents. They also keep out the wet, 
so that we can better endure exposure to rain or snow. 
The frequent changes of weather so common in this 
country are a severe tax on the body, against which our 
clothes are our chief protection. 

235. How Climate and the Season of the Year should 
modify the Kind and Quantity of Clothing. The clothing 
should be changed according to the climate or season of 
the year. It is not prudent to change winter clothing 
for that of lighter weight too early in the spring. 

Woolen clothing, or clothing made of some closely 
woven material, is a good protection against sudden 
changes in all seasons. 



HOW OUR BODIES ARE KEPT WARM 171 

A most imprudent but common error is to leave off 
winter flannels because of a few warm days in early 
spring. With the sudden changes of weather, a person 
thus runs great risk of taking a severe cold, which may 
result in pneumonia or " quick consumption." 

A wise doctor has said, " Never allow yourself to feel 
cold. Whenever you feel chilly put on more clothing, 
go into a warmer room, or exercise. In some way get 
warm and keep warm. Only beggars and fools go cold. 
The former because they lack clothes ; the latter, because 
they do not know enough to wear them." 

236. Frequent Change of Clothing. We should change 
often not only the garments used for daily wear, but also 
the bedclothes and nightclothes. We should not sleep in 
the clothes we wear during the day. Undergarments 
should be frequently and regularly changed. Bedclothes 
should be exposed freely to the light and air. 

The germs of contagious diseases may be carried by 
the clothing. Hence the utmost care must be used in 
changing and disinfecting the clothes when brought in 
contact with people suffering from these diseases. 

237. Care in clothing Children. Great care should be 
taken with the clothing of children. They are less able 
than grown-up people to resist cold and sudden changes. 
The legs and chests of children should not be exposed 
to the bitter cold of winter, nor to the chilly winds of 
spring. 



1 72 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

Children should wear proper outside garments on 
going out, and take them off on coming indoors. Pupils 
should not sit in the schoolroom with outside garments 
on, such as waterproofs, gossamers, cloaks, rubbers, rubber 
boots, and leggings. 

NOTE. In the clothing of children a line must be carefully drawn 
between prudence and coddling. To overclothe the body of a child 
in whom the production of heat is great, to overheat his nursery, 
and to prevent him roughing bad weather are the ways to court dis- 
aster. Development of the brain, the eye, the muscles, only comes 
with use, and so is it with the vigor of the circulation and the power 
to withstand and enjoy cold and hardship. HILL'S Physiology for 
Beginners. 

238. Caution against wearing Wet or Damp Clothing. - 

Wet or damp clothes should not be worn any longer 
than necessary. Little harm results from wearing wet 
clothes, provided the person keeps actively moving 
about until they can be changed. If we are exposed 
and get wet, we should take the shortest way home, 
remove the damp garments, rub down thoroughly, and 
put on dry, warm clothes. Always change at once 
damp skirts, wet stockings or shoes. Neglect of these 
matters often exposes one to needless risk of life and 
health. 

239. Effect of using Alcoholic Beverages in Cold Weather. 
Cold causes the blood vessels of the skin to grow 
smaller. This is Nature's way of economizing the heat 
of the body by allowing less blood to go to the surface, 



HOW OUR BODIES ARE KEPT WARM 173 

where it would be more quickly cooled than in the 
interior of the body. 

The skin feels cold when so much of the warm blood 
is thus shut away from it, and this also is Nature's way 
of giving warning that more heat is needed. If the 
person thus warned goes where the air is warmer, or 
puts on more clothing, or produces more heat in his 
body by exercise, he will soon become warmer. 

240. Ill Effect of trying to keep warmer by using Strong 
Drink. If, instead, he should try to warm himself by 
taking some kind of alcoholic drink, he would thwart 
Nature's plans. Alcohol causes the blood vessels in the 
skin to open wider. More blood, instead of less, flows to 
the surface, where it is cooled and thus makes the whole 
body colder. But the skin may feel warmer because it is 
for the time bathed in more warm blood. So no warning 
is sent to the brain, and the drinker does not properly 
guard himself from cold. In this way many persons 
who have thought to warm themselves by taking an 
alcoholic drink have been badly or fatally frozen. 

241. Effect of using Alcohol in Hot Weather. But how 
is it on a hot day or in a hot climate ? Will not alcohol 
then help to cool the body by expanding the blood vessels 
and allowing more blood to flow from the interior to the 
surface and be cooled ? 

Here again Nature, if left alone, takes the proper 
means for protection. Heat causes the blood vessels to 



174 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

expand and allow the blood to come to the surface. 
Perspiration flows out upon the skin, which is cooled 
by the resulting evaporation. 

The heat also causes the muscles to relax, and the 
person does not feel like taking exercise. He also feels 
uncomfortable when out in the hot sun, and this leads 
him to seek a cooler place, or to protect his head from 
the sun's rays if he has to go out. 

If, however, he takes some alcoholic drink, with the 
idea that it will cool him, he again thwarts Nature. The 
alcohol blunts his feelings, so that he is less conscious of 
the heat and hence is less careful to protect himself. It 
may tend also to excite him for a little while to unneces- 
sary muscular exercise, which increases the heat of his 
body. It is likely also to weaken his self-control and 
lead him to take more drink, which still further unfits 
his senses for their duty. All this makes him more liable 
to sunstroke or heat exhaustion. 



HOW OUR BODIES ARE KEPT WARM 175 



QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW 

1. How do we know that our bodies are warm ? 

2. How may the heat of the body be shown by a doctor's ther- 
mometer ? 

3. Explain briefly how a burning candle produces heat. 

4. Show very briefly how our bodies produce heat. 

5. Explain in a general way the difference between the burning 
of a candle and that of our own bodies. 

6. Show how this burning, or oxidation, is going on in the tissues 
of the body every moment of our lives. 

7. How is the heat of the body regulated ? 

8. What is the effect of one's occupation upon the bodily heat ? 

9. Show how the bodily heat is modified by climate. 

10. Give some facts gathered from your own reading to illustrate 
the effect of occupation and climate upon the heat of the body. 

11. How does the body lose heat ? 

12. Give in some detail the various reasons why we need clothing. 

13. Explain how the kind and the amount of clothing is modified 
by the climate and the season of the year. 

14. What can you say about frequent changes in clothing ? 

15. How can you avoid spreading disease germs through the 
clothing ? 

16. What care should be taken in the clothing of children ? 

17. What caution should be used in regard to wearing wet or damp 
clothing ? 

18. What are some of the ill effects of using alcoholic beverages in 
cold weather ? 

19. Describe the ill effects of trying to keep warm by using strong 
drink. 

20. What are some of the effects of using alcoholic liquors in hot 
weather ? 



CHAPTER XII 

THE NERVOUS SYSTEM: HOW IT GOVERNS THE BODY 

242. Each Part of the Body depends upon Some Other 
Part. If we stop to think of it for a moment, we see 
how true it is that each part of the body depends upon 
some other part. We have learned in the preceding 
chapters that the various organs of the body work to- 
gether for a common good. Thus if we make believe 
to strike suddenly at the eye of a playmate, his eyelids 
shut to protect it. If we tickle his foot when he is 
asleep, the muscles of his leg will pull it away. 

Have you ever seen a gang of men, under a foreman, 
at work upon a tall steel office-building? Each man is 
trained to work in harmony with every other workman 
for a common purpose. So it is with the body, all its 
other organs are regulated and controlled by the nervous 
system. 

243. The Two Great Divisions of the Nervous System. - 
It will help us to learn a few simple facts about the 
nervous system if we divide it into two great divisions : 

The first division includes the brain, the spinal cord, 
and the cerebro-spinal nerves, and is called the cerebro- 

spinal system. This is the great nerve center of the body. 

176 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 



177 



The second great division is the sympathetic system, 
of which we shall presently learn. 

244. The Brain. The brain is one of the most wonder- 
ful and important organs in the body. It fills the inside 
of the skull, and is 
a curious, pulpy- 
looking mass. The 
outer surface is 
grooved into folds, 
in appearance not 
unlike a crumpled 
silk handkerchief. 

The brain con- 
sists of two principal 
parts: one is large, 
the other is small. . 

The larger, or 
upper portion, the 
brain proper, is 
nearly seven eighths 
of the whole mass. 
It is in halves, one 

on each side, which are separated from each other by a 
deep groove. It is called the cerebrum. 

The smaller part, or little brain, lies beneath the back 
part of the brain proper, and is called the cerebellum. It 
is about as large as a medium-sized orange. 




FIG. 1 08. The Upper Surface of the Brain, 
showing its Division into Two Hemispheres, 
and also the Convolutions 



178 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

245. The Weight of the Brain. How much do you sup- 
pose the average brain of a man weighs ? About three 
pounds. As a rule, a large brain is the sign of a superior 
mind. Daniel Webster's brain weighed fifty-three and a 
half ounces. Agassiz's weighed the same. That of Cuvier, 
the celebrated naturalist, weighed sixty-four and a third 
ounces. An idiot's brain rarely exceeds thirty ounces. 

246. The Spinal Cord. We may have seen in some 
market the spinal cord, or marrow, in the halved carcass 
of a sheep. It is a mass of soft tissue, which is packed in 
the bony canal of the backbone. We may think of our 
own spinal cord, which is as thick as one's little finger 
and from fifteen to eighteen inches long. It extends 
from the base of the skull to the loins, where it tapers 
to a point. It is protected from injury, jolts, and jars by 
its bony canal. 

The spinal cord is the chief channel through which all 
messages from the trunk and limbs pass to the brain, 
and all orders or messages to the trunk and limbs pass 
from the brain. 

Experiments. The teacher may give pupils a very general iden 
of the brain by employing a butcher or marketman to dissect away 
the skin and muscles, saw open the skull, and save uninjured the 
brain of a sheep or a calf. 

In like manner the general build of the spinal cord may be shown 
by getting at the market an uninjured piece of the spine of a sheep 
or a calf. A fresh brain or spine should be first soaked in some 
hardening fluid, as they are too soft for handling in class use, 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 



179 



247. The Spinal Nerves. The backbone, as we have 
been told, is built of thirty-one separate bones, piled one 
on top of another. Between each one of these bones 
and the next a pair of nerves is given off from the spinal 
cord. These nerves are called spinal nerves. With their 
branches they extend to al- 
most every part of the body. 

The spinal nerves are 
conductors, which carry 
messages to and from the 
brain. They themselves 
do not issue orders, and 
they feel no sensations. 

248. The Cranial Nerves. 
Besides the thirty-one 
pairs of spinal nerves there 
are twelve pairs of nerves 

which spring directly from FlG I09< _ The Under Surface o the 

the base of the brain, and Brain, showing Some Large Arteries 

pass out through the floor and their Branches 
of the skull. They are called cranial nerves. These 
nerves are distributed over the face and chest, and also 
send branches to the lungs, heart, and other organs. 

249. The Sympathetic System. On each side of the 
spine, from .the brain even to the end of the backbone, is 
a chain of tiny oval masses of nerve cells, not unlike 
grains of wheat, called nerve knots, or ganglia. 




i8o 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



These ganglia and their branches make up the sym- 
pathetic system. A large number of its nerve branches 
are given off to the heart, to the stomach, to the liver, 

to the intestines, and 
to other important 
organs. 

We may think of 
the ganglia as sta- 
tions along the line 
of a great telephone 
system. Through 
these stations a sin- 
gle message may be 
sent off in a dozen 
directions, or a dozen 
ingoing messages 
may be gathered up 
and passed along a 
single nerve fiber to 
the spinal cord. 

250. Work done by 
the Sympathetic Sys- 
tem. The general 
nervous system has 
in the sympathetic nerves a kind of independent tele- 
phone plant which serves as a helper in watching over 
those processes that are beyond the control of the will. 




FIG. 1 10. The Main Trunk of a Great Cra- 
nial Nerve, showing its Distribution by its 
Larger Branches to the Windpipe, Heart, 
Lungs, and other Regions. The Windpipe 
and Descending Aorta are also shown 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 



181 



Thus, when food is taken into the stomach, messages are 
sent to and from various organs. The stomach takes on 
its churning motion, various glands begin their work, and 
certain blood vessels are 
dilated. 

The sympathetic 
nerves thus serve as a 
means of putting various 
organs in touch with each 
other. Various emotions 
may act upon the sym- 
pathetic nerves. Thus, 
the sight of an accident 
may excite vomiting. 

The different^ organs 
of the body are thus 
enabled to work in har- 
mony for a common pur- 
pose. For this reason the FlG " ' ' ' ~ The Distribution of Some 

of the Great Nerves of the Sympa- 

name "Sympathetic" is thet ic System to the Intestines, 
given to this part of the Several Spinal Nerves as they issue 
i from the Spine are also shown 

general nervous system. 

251. The Telephone System in our Bodies. We may 
compare the brain and the nerves in a general sort of 
way to a complete telephone system. The brain is the 
central office. The thousands of nerve fibers, branching 
off to all parts of the body, are the telephone wires. 




1 82 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

Messages are constantly being sent to the brain to tell 
it what is going on in various parts of the body. The 
brain, on receiving the news, at once sends back its 
orders as to what must be done. The order flies through 
the nerves faster than it is possible for us to think. 

Thus, in playing with a ball, the boy sees it coming 
toward him. A message is telephoned along the nerves 
from the eyes to the brain, "The ball is coming." The 
brain at once telephones a message to the muscles of the 
arms and legs, " Move quickly and catch the ball." In 
obedience to this order the muscles contract and the 
necessary motions are made for catching the ball. 

252. Reflex Action. Every message from various parts 
of the body does not travel as far as the central office, 
that is, to the brain, but some of them are switched off, 
or " reflected " as we call it, at some of the stations on the 
circuit. 

These way stations, located along the spinal cord, 
receive messages and send back answers without orders 
from the central station, or the brain. If somebody 
should tickle our toes when we were fast asleep, we 
should draw our feet away; and yet we should know 
nothing about it when we awoke. 

In eating, sometimes a bit of food will go down what 
is called the " wrong way," and we cough hard to get rid 
of it. We cannot help coughing ; it goes on without our 
will. This is called a reflex action. The impressions made 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 



183 



by the tickling and the crumb do not have to go as far 
as the brain to receive attention. The signal of danger 
or distress goes first to one of the way stations in the 
cord or the part of the brain that adjoins the cord. The 
order to do something is then sent out, or " reflected," to 
the muscles which con- 
trol the part in need of 
help. 

253. The Importance 
of Reflex Action. Thus 
reflex action is very im- 



Nose 



Face" 
Motor 
Tongue 




portant to our health, 

Face - 

comfort, and safety. A Sen * ory 
thousand acts take place 
which tend to keep us 
well, and yet we have as 
little control over them 
as over the stars above 
us. If the feet slip, the 
body tends to recover it- 
self without the effort of 
the will. We try sometimes to brush the flies away when 
we are asleep. If we raise our hand suddenly to the eye, 
the eyelid closes to protect it. 

The story is told of an old soldier who, while carrying 
a bowl of soup across the street, suddenly dropped it on 
hearing some wag call "Attention," so used was he, at 



, ist and 2nd 
Spinal Nerves 



FIG. 112. Diagram showing the Dis- 
tribution of the Cranial Nerves 



1 84 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



that word of command, to stand erect with his hands at 
his side. 

254. How the Brain is relieved by Reflex Action. - 
What good is done by reflex action? It would take 
a larger book than this to tell the story. By this won- 
derful provision our brain is relieved of a vast amount of 
work. After one has once learned 
to walk, swim, skate, or ride the 
bicycle, the movements are carried 
on without an effort of the will. If 
we were forced to use our will power 
to digest our food we could not, 
as now, eat and then go about our 
business. 

255. The Need of Exercise for the 
Brain. The brain, or the thinking 
part, is a most precious gift. It needs 
exercise as well as any other organ 
of the body. As its duty is to think, 
we should give it good things to 
think about, just as we give the 

FIG. 113. Superficial 

Nerves on the Back stomach good food to digest. How 
of the Left Forearm necessary it is to keep it sound and 

and Hand , .,, 

healthy ! 

We should get the brain into the habit of thinking in 
earnest, so that it may grow strong and vigorous. A 
gentleman once asked a boy who was idling about the 




THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 



fields, "What are you thinking about?" "Mostly 
naught, sir," said the boy, and so it would be with many 
young people if they were left to themselves, and not 
taught from their in- 
fancy to think. 

256. Overworking the 
Nervous System.- 
The nervous system 
may be easily over- 
worked. This may 
occur not so much 
from hard study as 
from worry or over- 
anxiety about passing 
school examinations, 
from going to bed too 
late, or from giving 
too much time to the 

demands of society. 

J 

These and many other 

imprudent habits of living often lay the foundation for 

years of ill health. 

257. Sleep. Of all the wonderful things about us 
which we do not wonder at because they are so common, 
sleep is one. of the strangest. How it comes, why it 
comes, how it does its kind, helpful work, not even the 
wisest people are able to tell us. We do not have much 




1 14. - The Superficial Nerves on the 

Left Side of the Neck and Head 



1 86 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

trouble in seeking it : it usually comes to us of itself. It 
takes us in its kindly arms, quiets and comforts us, 
repairs and refreshes us, and turns us out in the morn- 
ing quite like new people. 

258. How many Hours shall we sleep. The amount of 
sleep which we need in order to do hard work and to 
keep well and strong depends upon a number of things. 
No exact rule can be laid down, but the amount varies 
with our age, occupation, and temperament. For ex- 
ample, a healthy baby usually spends the greater part 
of the first few weeks of its life in sleep. 

Most of the world's great workers have required a 
goodly amount of sleep. Sir Walter Scott, who wrote 
" The Lady of the Lake " and " Ivanhoe," and Henry 
Ward Beecher, the famous eloquent clergyman, used to 
insist upon having eight hours of sound sleep every 
night. 

Napoleon Bonaparte and Frederick the Great were 
tireless workers, and yet never slept more than four or 
five hours out of the twenty-four. These two remark- 
able men must, however, be regarded as exceptions to 
the ordinary rule. 

259. Why Children need much Sleep. Growing children 
need more sleep than grown-up people because their 
bodies need more rest during the period of growth. 
Hence children should go to bed early and sleep in the 
morning till they wake of themselves. We all know how 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 



I8 7 



an active child is refreshed, especially during hot weather, 
by a bath and a long nap in the middle of the day. 

Children should not go to bed when the brain is too 
active or excited. Hence quiet and restful talk and 
gentle games just before bedtime are much better for 
most children than weird 
goblin stories and hard .iff; 
play. 

260. Hints about Sleep. 
When we are fairly 
awake we should get out 
of bed. Dozing in bed 
is not good for young 
folks. We should re- 
member what the Duke 
of Wellington used to 
say: "When it is time to 
turn over it is time to 
turn out." 

Avoid sleeping in a 
warm room. Pure, fresh air is necessary for sound, 
healthy sleep. We can open a window a little way in 
our bedrooms with safety almost every night, even in 
the coldest weather. Do not study hard or eat hearty 
food just before going to sleep. Do not think that 
" cat naps " during the day can ever make up for sleep 
lost at night. 




FIG. 115. A Branch of One of the 
Cranial Nerves which supplies the 
Lower Teeth 

Branches distributed to various muscles 
are also shown 



1 88 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

261. Narcotics. He would be a very unwise man who, 
after hiring a watchman to guard his property through 
the night, should give him a drug that would put him 
to sleep or make him so weak that he could not resist if 
a robber should come. 

The nervous system is the guardian as well as the 
ruler of the body. And yet there are people who 
thoughtlessly take into their bodies substances whose 
nature it is to stupefy or weaken the nervous system. 
Such substances are called narcotics. Alcohol, tobacco, 
opium, and other substances of like nature are narcotics. 

262. General Effect of Alcohol upon the Nervous System. 
The alcohol in beer, wine, brandy, or other alcoholic 
drink has the power to cause more or less serious dis- 
turbance of the nervous system. If the amount used is 
small, the drinker himself may be scarcely aware of any 
effect, except, perhaps, he may feel somewhat excited. 
Yet close observation, or expert tests, after the use of 
amounts often considered moderate, may show that his 
brain works less carefully or correctly. He is not so 
quick to see the difference between right and wrong. 
He is less careful to refrain from words that will give 
offense. His power of self-control is weakened. 

Such disturbance of the nervous system, if frequently 
repeated, tends to change the character of the individual. 
This change may show itself in different ways, such as 
neglect of business, ill temper, or cruelty. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 



189 



263. Effect of Strong Drink upon the Judgment. That 
faculty of the mind that decides what is good sense, what 
is right, wise, and best, is called the judgment. Alcohol 
takes the edge off the judgment. A person whose brain 
is excited with alcohol will laugh and be greatly pleased 
with what is in reality foolish, silly, and unwise. 

Under this misleading excitement many persons have 
uttered words and done deeds that filled them with shame 
when they were told of 
them after the effects of 
the alcohol had passed off. 
Many a life that might 
otherwise have been one of 
happy usefulness has been 
permanently disgraced by 
some act done in this 
excited condition, when 
alcohol had dulled the 
sense of right. 

Many and many a suc- 
cess in life has been lost 
because he who should have been the man of the hour was 
unfit for duty from having dulled his brain with alcohol. 

264. Effect of Alcohol upon the Will. When a person 
does what he undertakes in spite of difficulties, we say 
he has a strong will. Without such a will, rightly guided, 
no one can accomplish much in life. 




FlG. 1 1 6. A Branch of One of the 
Cranial Nerves which supplies the 
Upper Teeth 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



FIG. 117. Nerve Trunks 
of the Right Arm, with 
their Accompanying 
Arteries 



One of the most serious dangers 
in the use of alcoholic drinks is the 
power of alcohol to weaken the will. 
The drinker often sees that alcohol 
is injuring his health and character, 
that it is making him careless about 
doing right, attending to business, 
and caring for those dependent on 
him. Conscience urges him never 
to take another drop. He solemnly 
resolves that he never will. Does 
he carry out the resolve? 

265. Indulgence in Alcoholic 
Beverages lessens the Power to resist 
Temptation. In the hours of 
temptation that are sure to follow 
indulgence in alcoholic beverages, 
the drinker needs a strong will with 
which to say No, and to keep on 
saying No very firmly, to the appe- 
tite that asks for more. 

But alas! if the alcohol that 
created this appetite has also weak- 
ened the will of the drinker, he is 
far more likely to say Yes than No. 

The person who is asked to take 
his "first glass," as well as the 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 191 

occasional drinker, should remember that this appetite 
and weakened will are the natural consequences of the 
use of alcoholic liquors, and that the time when a 
person could stop drinking if he would leads on to the 
time when he would stop drink- 
ing if he could. 

One of the sad facts about the 
use of alcohol is that drinking 
parents are not so likely to have 
strong, healthy children as those 
are who avoid all drinks contain- 
ing alcohol. 

266. The Use of Tobacco. To- 
bacco is another narcotic which 
tends to make the brain and nerves 
less keen and quick in their action. 

The injury done by tobacco 
varies according to the quantity 
used. Even moderately used it is 
often hurtful, especially to young FlG ' 8 A Great Nerve 

1 . and its Branches on the 

persons, and the tobacco habit, Front of the Thigh 

Once acquired, is difficult tO break. The femoral artery with its 
TI. , , r -i ,! , cut end is also shown 

1 he appetite for it grows with its 

use. The fact that the habit is foolish, costly, and ill 

becoming is evident to every one. 

267. Smoking Cigarettes. The boy who smokes ciga- 
rettes will find, if he takes careful notice, that it is often 




192 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



difficult to give close attention to his work. His ability 
to think clearly is injured by the tobacco. Even in 
sports, the boy who does not use cigarettes has more of 
the keenness, the alertness, and the 
strength that win. 

Many business men refuse to 
employ boys who smoke tobacco, 
because they know from experience 
that such boys are less reliable than 
those who do not smoke. 

268. The Use of Tobacco from a 
Moral Point of View. -- Tobacco has 
the power, through its effect upon 
the brain and nerves, to deaden the 
user's sense of politeness and make 
him careless of the rights of others. 
All have a right to breathe pure 
air. The smoker puffs his tobacco 

FiG.n 9 .-AGreatNerve Smoke int the faC6S f P CO P le n 

and its Branches which the street cars and ferries, in wait- 
supply the Bottom of ; ro h t j d ]aces of 
the Feet f 

amusement, regardless of the fact 

The cut tendons of the great 

muscles of the leg are also that it may be very disagreeable. 

The tobacco chewer, selfishly 

thinking of no one but himself, soils the floor, stairs, 
sidewalks, and even stoves and other objects that come 
within the range of his disgusting habit. 




J 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 193 

This is the whole story in a nutshell : No person who 
wishes to keep strong and vigorous, or who is ambitious 
to succeed in life and to make the most of his abilities, 
should smoke, or use tobacco in any form. 

NOTE. The honors of the great schools, academies, and colleges 
are very largely taken by the abstainers from tobacco. This is proved 
by the result of repeated and extensive comparisons of the advanced 
classes in a great number of educational institutions in this country 
and in Europe. Our military and naval academies and very many 
seminaries and colleges very properly prohibit the use of tobacco 
by their students. The laws of many states rigidly forbid the sale 
of tobacco, especially of cigarettes, to minors. BLAISDELL'S Life 
and Health, page 236. 

269. Opium. Opium is a very dangerous narcotic. 
It is the dried juice of the white poppy. Morphine is a 
white powder made from opium. Laudanum is a solu- 
tion of opium in alcohol. Paregoric is a weak form of 
opium, combined with other things. 

Opium is becoming as great a curse to some of the 
natives of Asia as alcohol and tobacco are to the people 
of Europe and America. But its use is gaining ground 
even in this country, and for this reason all should know 
that it is a dangerous narcotic, with power to create an 
appetite for more. 

Various forms of opium are generally used in liniments, 
cough killers, soothing syrups, and other advertised medi- 
cines. Few people who use these realize that they con- 
tain opium. 



194 HOW TO KEEP W ELL 

A person may begin in the most innocent way to take 
these or other forms of opium to relieve pain ; but no 
one is safe who thus tampers with this dangerous sub- 
stance. Little by little, before he realizes it, he may form 
the craving for opium, which it may be almost impos- 
sible to resist. The opium habit soon ruins health and 
character. 

Opium is often given to infants and children in the 
form of the so-called soothing syrups, sleeping drops, and 
colic mixtures. The child seems to be soothed, but it is 
because he is stupefied, not cured. 

270. Chloral and Other Powerful Drugs. Chloral is a 
powerful drug, capable of producing sleep. People who 
use it for this purpose run the risk of becoming slaves to 
a dangerous habit. Chloral soon injures the health. The 
user is liable to become careless and take a fatal dose. 

Many kinds of powerful drugs, sold under fanciful 
names and advertised to cure headache, "grip," and 
other ailments, are now widely used in households. 
There is an ever-present danger to health, and even life 
itself, in the common use of such remedies. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 195 



QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW 

1. How does each part of the body depend upon some other part? 

2. Illustrate this point by comparison with the work of a gang of 
men employed under a master workman in the erection of a modern 
steel office building. 

3. What are the two general divisions of the nervous system ? 

4. Tell what you can about the brain and its various parts. 

5. What do you know about the weight of the brain ? 
6." Describe in some detail the spinal cord. 

7. What are the spinal nerves ? 

8. What are the cranial nerves ? 

9. Describe the sympathetic system. 

10. What work is done by the sympathetic system ? 

11. How may we compare the brain and nerves to a telephone 
system ? 

12. Describe and illustrate what is meant by reflex action. 

13. Show the importance of reflex action, giving illustrations. 

14. How is the brain relieved by reflex action ? 

15. Why is there need of exercise for the brain ? 

16. How may the nervous system be overworked ? 

17. What can you say about sleep and the number of hours needed ? 

18. Why do children need much sleep ? 

19. What hints about sleep can you mention ? 

20. What is the general effect of alcohol upon the nervous system ? 

21. How may the judgment and the will power be weakened by 
strong drink ? 

22. What can you tell about the appetite or craving for alcoholic 
liquors ? 

23. What can you say about the use of tobacco ? 

24. What can you say about smoking cigarettes ? 

25. Describe the common forms of opium, giving a few practical 
points about their use. 



CHAPTER XIII 

THE FIVE GATEWAYS OF KNOWLEDGE 

271. How the Brain learns what takes place in the Outer 
World. Some nerves, as we have learned, control the 
muscles ; others carry a variety of impressions to the 
brain from every part of the body. 

When the brain receives an impression through cer- 
tain nerves, we become conscious of a sensation. Exactly 
how a sensation leaves an imprint on the brain is one of 
the many mysteries which even the wisest men cannot 
explain. 

Most sensations are usually produced by something 
outside of us. Thus, if we hear a locomotive whistle, a 
dog bark, or a child play on a piano, we have a sensa- 
tion of sound. If we put salt on the tongue, hold a 
pink to the nose, pinch the skin, or gaze at a beau- 
tiful rainbow, certain organs receive the impressions. 
Faithful nerves then carry the impressions to the brain, 
and we thus become conscious of different sensations. 

272. The Five Gateways. There are five "gateways 
of knowledge," or avenues, through which we learn what 
takes place in the world around us. In other words, we 

have five special sense organs, the skin, the chief organ 

196 



THE FIVE GATEWAYS OF KNOWLEDGE 197 

of touch ; the tongue, of taste ; the nose, of smell ; the ear, 
of hearing ; and the eye, of sight. 

273. Touch. The simplest of the senses is touch. It is 
given to some extent to the whole body ; but it is more 
delicate in the hands and fingers than elsewhere. When 
we pass our fingers over an object, we say we feel it, and 
can tell whether it is soft or hard, rough or smooth. 

If we look carefully at the palm of the hand or at the 
ends of the fingers, we can see tiny ridges and furrows. 
At the tips of the fingers these ridges go round and 
round in circles. If the finger tips be smeared with 
some thick ink, an impression can be made on paper, 
showing these circles or wavy figures. 

In old times, before the art of writing, and therefore 
of signing one's " name, was common, the old English 
kings would sign a document by inking the end of the 
thumb and stamping it on paper; hence, it is said, 
originated the phrase, "my hand and seal." 

274. The Wonders of the Sense of Touch. The sense of 
touch can be cultivated to a marvelous extent. Think 
what blind people can do ! With \vhat skill and rapidity 
do they learn to make baskets and brushes in the asy- 
lums! They read with ease by running their fingers 
over slightly raised letters, and recognize their friends 
by feeling their faces. 

The story is told of an old blind man who lost both 
his arms, and as he had no fingers with which to read, he 



198 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

learned to do so by his lips. Watch an expert blind 
pianist, and see the skill, the rapidity, and the precision 
with which he handles the keys of the instrument. 

Animals are very sensitive to the sense of touch. Every 
boy who has kept rabbits knows how easily their hearts 
are won by gently tickling them behind the ears. A 
horse keenly enjoys the same kind of treatment on the 
tip of his nose. 

275. Taste. -The tongue is the chief organ of taste. 
It has two coverings, an outer layer, and a deep, sen- 
sitive layer. In sickness this outer layer often becomes 
coated with whitish or yellowish matter. The deep layer 
is raised up, like the true skin, into tiny hillocks, or 
papillae, which are abundantly supplied with delicate 
nerves, the nerves of taste. 

The tip and back of the tongue are supplied with dif- 
ferent nerves ; hence it makes a difference whether we 
put a substance to be tasted on the tip or on the back of 
the tongue. Alum, for example, has an acid taste on the 
tip and a sweetish taste on the back of the tongue. 

In certain animals these hillocks are very large and 
give a roughness to the tongue. We know that a cat's 
tongue is very rough, and it is this which enables her to 
strip off the flesh from a bone by simply licking it. 

Bees and wasps have keen tastes. Ants detect at 
once any bitter stuff that may be put into honey. A 
hungry hen picks up kernels of corn and seems to 



THE FIVE GATEWAYS OF KNOWLEDGE 199 

swallow them like so many bullets, but detects at once 
whether the corn is fresh or musty. 

276. How the Sense of Taste may be modified. Taste is 
a kind of picket guard at the gateway of the digestive 
canal. It is much modified by habit, education, and 
many other things. The Laplanders drink rancid fish 
oil with a relish ; the ancient Persians used as an appe- 
tizer the offensive asafetida, which they called the divine 
perfume; and the Chinese are accustomed to season 
their salad with castor oil. 

Great acuteness may be gained in the sense of taste. 
" Tea tasters " become wonderfully skillful in recognizing 
flavors of tea. 

277. Smell. The seat of the sense of smell is in the 
cavities of the nose, into which the nostrils open, and 
which connect behind with the throat, above the back 
part of the mouth. The walls of the nasal cavities are 
lined with a thick, velvety membrane, over which the 
nerves of smell are distributed. 

This membrane is kept continually moist by a fluid 
which it secretes. When we have a cold in the head, as 
it is called, we are hardly able to smell anything. This 
is because this membrane is swollen. 

The sense of smell is most acute in the roof of the 
nasal cavities; hence when we wish to detect a faint 
odor we sniff up the air sharply. A dog gives several 
short, sharp sniffs when smelling for game. 



200 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

278. Acuteness of the Sense of Smell. The sense of 
smell serves as a sentinel at the nose. It warns us 
against eating improper or unwholesome food and 
breathing impure air. It varies very much in different 
individuals and in different animals. In some persons 
it is very dull, while others have a very " sharp nose." ' 

In savage races this sense is most acute. We are told 
that the South American Indians can by their sense of 
smell detect the approach of a stranger, even in a dark 
night. 

This sense is far more acute in many animals than in 
man. A dog will smell the footsteps of his master amid 
those of a hundred other people, and can trace him for 
miles, although he has been long out of sight. Pointers 
also scent game at a great distance. Cats are greatly 
excited by the smell of valerian, which they easily detect 
in a tightly corked bottle. Certain insects hurry away 
in great distress from the odor of tar and camphor. 

Experiments. It is often difficult to distinguish between the sense 
of taste and that of smell. If we chew some pure roasted coffee, it 
seems to have a distinct taste. Pinch the nose hard while chewing 
it and there is little taste. Coffee has a powerful odor but only a 
feeble taste. 

Light helps the sense of taste. Close the nostrils, shut the eyes, 
and attempt to distinguish by taste alone between a slice of apple 
and a slice of potato. 

Pinch the nose, close the eyes, and note how palatable a few drops 
of cod-liver oil becomes. 



THE FIVE GATEWAYS OF KNOWLEDGE 20 1 

279. Hearing. We have ears which help us to keep in 
touch with the outside world. Next to sight, hearing is 
the most important of the senses. We could get along 
without being able to taste ; but without seeing and hear- 
ing life would be almost a blank. 

Animals that have a backbone 
always have the organ of hearing 
in the head. Birds have no out- 
ward ears, but they are very sharp 
at catching the call of their own 
kind, or the cry of a hawk. The 
cricket has ears, but they are on 
its legs. Our own ears have their 
delicate parts securely lodged in the 
bones on either sicle of the head. 

280. The Outer Ear. The outer 
ear is a piece of gristle covered with 

, . T , 111 i FIG. 1 20. The Outer Ear 

skin. It is curiously molded and 

serves as a sort of wind sail to catch sounds. In some 

animals it is quite large and movable ; hence the timid 

rabbit and the intelligent horse " prick up their ears " 

to listen. The tube in the ear is about an inch long, 

and guides the sound inward just as an ear trumpet 

does. 

At the lower end of this passage we find a delicate 
membrane stretched tightly across, which serves as a 
partition between the outer and the middle ear. It is 




2O2 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



thin and elastic ; hence it may be easily injured by a blow 
or by pushing some blunt instrument into the ear. 

281. The Middle Ear. The middle ear is really the ear. 
In form it resembles an ordinary drum. Three of the 

tiniest bones in 
the body stretch 
across it. They 
are so small that 
you can easily bal- 
ance them on the 
tip of your finger. 
One curious thing 
is, that they are as 
large in infancy as 
they ever will be. 
The air reaches 
the inside of the 
eardrum through 
a little tube about 
an inch long, 
which leads into 
it from the throat. 
It serves to keep 
the air on both sides of the drum membrane at a constant 
and even pressure. Hence gunners open their mouths 
when a heavy cannon is about to be fired, so that the 
shock may be felt less forcibly. In going up a high 




FIG. 121. General View of the Organ 
of Hearing 

A, outer ear; B, cavity of the outer ear, showing the 
openings of a great number of oil glands ; C, outer 
entrance to the ear ; Z>, tympanic membrane ; F, ff, 
K, bones of the ear ; L, a small muscle ; between 
M and K is the tympanic cavity ; N, Eustachian 
tube leading to upper part of mouth ; O, P, semi- 
circular canals ; /", internal auditory canal ; S, large 
nerve given off from the facial nerve ; T, facial 
and auditory nerves 



THE FIVE GATEWAYS OF KNOWLEDGE 203 

mountain, or under water in a diving bell, people swallow 
repeatedly to save the feeling of discomfort and pain in 
the ears. 

282. The Inner Ear. The inner ear is one of the most 
delicate and complex bits of machinery in the whole 
body. It is really a series of the tiniest winding cham- 
bers and spiral tubes hollowed out in the solid bone. 

The nerve of hearing passes from the inner ear to the 
brain through a little hole in the skull. It is this nerve 
which carries sound to the brain. 

283. Hints on the Care of the Ears. Do not try to 
relieve a slight itching in the ears, or to remove ear- 
wax, with ear spoons, the ends of pencils, 

or hairpins, as there is danger of doing 
harm to the drum membrane of the ear. 
A drop of sweet oil, melted vaseline, or 
even molasses will dislodge any insect 
which may get into the ear. 
Do not go to sleep in any 

position by which the ears 

, , , , FIG. 122. ST. 

are exposed to a draught of Cast of the Exter . 

Cold air. nal Auditory Canal 

The ears are often injured <?<**** view) 
by diving into deep water or bathing in the surf. Wads 
of absorbent cotton may be inserted into the ears to 
protect .them in salt-water bathing. Never pull or box 
a child's ears. A slight blow may result in deafness. 




204 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

284. Other Hints on the Care of the Ears. Great care 
should be taken of the ears after an attack of scarlet 
fever or diphtheria. It is not at all uncommon to find 
that pupils who are- thought to be dull or heedless are 
only hard of hearing. 

Do not shout suddenly in anybody's ear. Deafness 
may result from the shock. Quinine, so commonly used 
in some form or other for malaria, often causes a deaf- 
ness for the time. Earache, or pain in the ear canal, may 
result from decayed or imperfectly filled teeth. 

Do not bathe the ear and nostrils with very cold 
water. Colds easily settle in the ear and throat pas- 
sages. Never use any of the many articles or medicines 
advertised to cure deafness. Any trouble with the ear 
usually needs the advice of a doctor. 

285. Sight. The sense of sight enables us to learn 
what is going on in the outside world near by, or even 
many miles away. It is indeed a very precious gift, the 
most perfect and most wonderful of all our senses. 

We watch a balloon from the time it leaves the ground 
till it is a black speck in the sky, and the next instant 
we may be reading the finest print of a story book. 

The sense of sight is so concerned with the number- 
less acts of our everyday life that we are too apt to 
forget that it is essential not only to the simplest 
matters of comfort and pleasure but also to the culture 
of the mind. 



THE FIVE GATEWAYS OF KNOWLEDGE 



205 



286. The Eye and its Wonders. The eye, a most beau- 
tiful and curiously planned organ, is the instrument of 
sight. It is really one of the greatest wonders of nature. 

The eye, not unlike an egg in shape, is lodged in a 
cavity of the skull called the socket. It is well pro- 
tected by strong bones, and rests upon 
a cushion of fat. We may think of 
it as a very precious gem rest- 
ing in a nicely made case. 

Passing to the 
brain through a 
crevice in the 
bottom of the 
eye socket is 
the optic nerve, 
which gives the 

power of sight. FlG " I23 ' ~ Muscles o the Eyeba11 

It spreads itself 
like a network 
upon the inner 
surface of the 
eyeball. It is 
then called the 
retina and forms the terminal organ of vision. 

It is upon the retina that the pictures of objects are 
thrown. The impression of the pictures is carried to 
the brain, and causes the sensation of sight. 




', tendon of the four recti or straight muscles of the 
eye ; B, one of the straight muscles cut ; C, D, E, 
three of the straight muscles ; F, a muscle which 
helps pull the eyeball sideways by means of the pul 
ley at H\ K,z. muscle of the lower part of the eye- 
ball which corresponds in action to F\ L and M, 
muscles which raise the upper eyelid ; to the right 
of D and to the left are seen the cut ends of the 
optic nerve 



2O6 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



Sometimes the optic nerve is diseased, and total blind- 
ness results. The great poet John Milton suffered from 
this disease, and in his blindness dictated the immortal 

poem Paradise Lost. 



Experiments. The retina is not 
sensitive where the optic nerve en- 
ters the eyeball. This is called the 
" blind spot." 

On a white card make a cross 
and a large dot about four inches 
apart. Hold the card vertically 
about ten inches from the right 
eye, the left being closed. Look 
steadily at the cross with the right 
eye, when both the cross and the 
dot will be seen. Gradually bring 
the card nearer the eye, keeping the 
FIG. 1 24. Schoolboy trying an Ex- eye fixed on the cross. At a certain 
periment to find the Blind Spot distance the dot will disappear. On 

bringing the card still nearer the 

(From a photograph taken in the dot reappears, the cross, of course, 
schoolroom) being 




The location of the blind spot may also be shown in the following 
simple manner. The left eye being shut, let the right eye be fixed on 
the letter A below. When the book is held at arm's length both A 







and the letter O will be visible ; if the book be brought to about 
eight inches from the eye, the gaze being kept steadily upon A, O will 
at first disappear; but as the book is brought still nearer, both A and 
O will again be seen. 



THE FIVE GATEWAYS OF KNOWLEDGE 207 

287. The Eyeball. The eyeball is almost round, thick 
and dull everywhere except in front, where it has a 
transparent covering which fits into the eye much as a 
watch crystal is fitted into a watch. 

Through this covering, or cornea as it is called, the 
rays of light pass into the ball of the eye. Behind the 
cornea is a space, called the front chamber of the eye, 
filled with a watery fluid. 

288. The Iris and the Crystalline Lens. In this front 
chamber of the eye there hangs a curtain called the iris, 
meaning "rainbow," 

which regulates the 

amount of light that 

enters the eye. This 

curtain, which may 

be black, brown, or EYE 

blue gives the color FIG. 125. BLACKBOARD SKETCH 

to the eye. It has Diagram illustrating the Manner in which the 

through its center Ima ^ e of an ob J ec * is brou ^ ht to a 

Focus on the Retina 

a round opening, 

called the pupil, which is for the admission of light. 

Back of the pupil, and just behind the iris, is a trans- 
parent, jellylike body, about the size of a French bean. 
It is called the crystalline lens, and it helps the cornea 
bring the pictures to a point, or focus, on the retina. 

The space between the crystalline lens in front and 
the retina behind is filled with a clear fluid. 




208 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



The eye is able to move in its socket by means of 
a number of little muscles. Sometimes these muscles 
do not act properly ; then the person is said to squint, or 

to be cross-eyed. 

289. The Eyelids and 
Eyebrows. Over each 
eye are little rows of 
hairs called the eye- 
brows. They add to 
the beauty of the face 
and help prevent the 
sweat from rolling 
down the forehead in- 
to the eyes. 

The eyelids, by con- 
tinual winking, protect 




the eye from insects and 

dust. They are fringed 

with delicate hairs 

11 J 4-Vi 1 V. 

ca Uea tnC CyelaSUCS, 

w hich are SO Sensitive 



FIG. 126. The Relative Position of the 
Tear Apparatus and the Eyelids 

A and C, tear canals ; B, tear sac ; D, small 
muscle which serves to compress the tear 
sac ; , lining membrane of the upper and 
lower eyelids ; F, glands upon the inner 
surface of the eyelids, with ducts opening 
upon the margins of the eyelids ; If, great that the slightest touch 
opening, or antrum, in the upper jawbone. j ,1 

The oil glands of the nose are also plainly glVCS Warning and the 

shown lids close. 

290. The Tears. At the upper and outer side of each 
eye is a little gland called the tear gland, which is con- 
stantly forming a saltish kind of fluid. Sometimes more 



THE FIVE GATEWAYS OF KNOWLEDGE 



209 



of this fluid flows from this little gland than can be 
carried away through the nose, and it flows over the 
eyelids down the cheeks and is called tears. 

Tears are constantly passing over the front of the eye, 
washing it clean and keeping it moist, while the eyelid 
wipes it dry, as it were, by forcing the tears into a little 
drainpipe, which carries 
them off into the nose. 
Nature, however, kindly 
oils the edges of the eye- 
lids, to prevent, to some ex- 
tent, the overflow of tears. 

291. Near Sight and Far 
Sight. One of the most 
common defects - of vision 
is near sight. The axis of 

. FIG. 127. The Attachment of the 

the eyeball IS a trifle tOO Recti, or Straight Muscles, to the 

Eyeball, also showing the Distri- 
bution of Arteries upon the Outer 
Coat of the Eye 




a very corn- 



long from the cornea to the 

retina. A blurred picture 

is made on the retina. Such 

a person is said to be nearsighted. It is 

mon ailment during school life. 

In long sight there is no distinct vision without some 
strain. The axis of the eyeball is too short, and the 
focus falls beyond the retina, which is too near the 
cornea. This kind of indistinct vision is quite common 
in childhood. 



210 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

292. Color Blindness and what it means. What does 
it mean to be color blind? Four or five out of every 
hundred people, it is said, are color blind. 

Color Blindness is the inability to tell certain colors. 
It generally exists at birth. Some people are partly 
color blind, while others are wholly so. The most com- 
mon form of this defect is that in which one fails to 
distinguish between red and green. We may be color 
blind and not know it until the defect is exposed by 
some accident. 

The discoverer of color blindness was a famous 
chemist by the name of Dalton, who died some sixty 
years ago, and who himself was color blind, a fact which 
he found out only by accident. 

We may be sure that it is a matter of great impor- 
tance to detect color blindness in those employed on 
steam and electric railways, on shipboard, on automo- 
biles, and in all other places where red and green signals 
are used. 

293. Hints on keeping Good Eyesight. Do not read in 
bed or while lying down in a darkened room. Avoid as 
far as possible books and papers printed on poor paper 
and in fine type. It is trying to the eyes to read with 
the sunlight falling on the book, or at or near dusk, or 
by a flickering light. 

If the eyes tingle or smart, or the sight is dim or 
blurred, stop and rest. Reading early in the morning 



THE FIVE GATEWAYS OF KNOWLEDGE 211 

by artificial light is a severe strain on the eyes of most 
people. Do not read, write, or sew, if it can be helped, 
when tired or sleepy. 

294. Practical Points on the Care of the Eyes. Do not 
rub or handle roughly the eyes when they are irritated 
by having something in them. The sooner the foreign 
substance is removed the better. Do not rub the eye or 
pull the eyelids. It is sure to make a bad matter worse. 
There is a quaint saying of the Germans that the eyes 
should never be rubbed except with the elbows. 

The eyes are often weak, and should be most carefully 
used after an attack of scarlet fever, measles, or diph- 
theria. It is very trying to the eyes to be exposed to 
light reflected from snow. It is a severe test, even for 
the best eyes, to ride against the wind, especially on a 
bicycle or in an automobile. Much suffering to the eye- 
sight is caused by neglecting to wear glasses when they 
are needed. 

295. Effect of Alcohol and Tohacco on the Senses. When 
a person has benumbed his brain with alcohol his senses 
are also dulled. A louder tone of voice is necessary in 
order to make him hear. He does not see distinctly. 
He may fall and bruise himself without complaining of 
pain. 

How much less keen the senses are after alcohol is 
used than before depends partly upon the amount taken. 
Much less than enough to make a man drunk may cause 



212 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

a weakening of the senses that will show itself if care- 
ful tests are made. The drinker himself is usually so 
deceived by the effect of the alcohol that he thinks his 
senses are keener and stronger when they are really 
duller and weaker. 

296. Effect of Alcohol upon the Eyesight. The ability 
to measure distance with the eye is very useful. The 
expert ball player is able to follow a ball with his eye 
when it is thrown high in the air, and to calculate so 
closely where it will come down that he is at the right 
place to catch it when it falls. 

Experimenters who have tested the matter tell us 
that alcohol has the power to weaken the ability to 
measure accurately with the eye. It causes the drinker 
to make more errors in measuring with the eye than 
when he takes no alcohol. 

The long-continued use of alcohol and tobacco, espe- 
cially tobacco, often results in a disease of the eyes which 
may seriously impair vision. 



THE FIVE GATEWAYS OF KNOWLEDGE 213 



QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW 

1. How does the brain learn what takes place in the outer world ? 

2. What is meant by the " five gateways of knowledge " ? 

3. What are the five special sense organs ? 

4. Describe the sensation of touch. 

5. What do you know about the wonders of the sense of touch ? 

6. Tell what you can about the sense of taste. 

7. In what way may the sense of taste be modified ? 

8. Describe the sense of smell. 

9. Give illustrations of special acuteness in the sense of smell. 

10. Tell what you can about the outer ear. 

11. Describe the structure of the middle ear. 

12. Tell something about the inner ear. 

13. Give some practical hints about the care of the ear. 

14. What can you tell about the importance of the sense of sight ? 

15. Describe the general structure of the eye. 

16. What can you tell about the eyeball ? 

17. Describe the iris and the crystalline lens. 

18. Tell something about the eyelids, the eyebrows, and the tears. 

19. What is meant by near sight and far sight ? 

20. Describe color blindness and state in what employments it may 
become a matter of great importance. 

21. Explain the importance of detecting color blindness. 

22. Give some hints on keeping good eyesight. 

23. What other points about the care of the eyes can you give ? 

24. W T hat may be the effect of alcoholic liquors and tobacco on the 
special senses ? 

25. How may alcohol affect the eyesight ? 



CHAPTER XIV 

BACTERIA AND DISEASES THAT SPREAD 

297. What the Microscope reveals. Did you ever think 
how many of the secrets of Mother Nature are revealed 
by the microscope ? This wonderful instrument enables 
us to see and study a whole world of living creatures 
which otherwise we should know nothing about. Every- 
body knew long ago that in hot weather milk, meat, and 
all kinds of moist food will quickly spoil. 

The real reason why many things mold or sour was 
not known until the microscope told the secret. Now 
we know that these changes are caused by the work of 
untold millions of very small living plants. 

298. Three Simple Forms of Plant Life. --The three 
simplest forms of plant life which we know about are 
yeast, mold, and bacteria. 

Yeast, which is so much used in making bread, is a 
very tiny plant. It grows and multiplies very rapidly in 
heat and moisture. (Sees. 97 and 115.) 

Mold is another kind of plant life, which we have all 
seen growing upon wood, leather, meat, and cheese. 

NOTE. Several other words, as bacilli, germs, microorganisms, and 
microbes, are terms commonly used for certain low forms of plant life 
of microscopic size. 

214 



BACTERIA AND DISEASES THAT SPREAD 



215 




One of the More Common Molds is 
growing 



Besides these two there is a third group of these invisible 
plants that contains some of man's worst enemies. The 
common name for this 
group is bacteria. 

299. Bacteria. We 
may think of bacteria as 
the smallest of living 
things. They vary 
greatly in form and size, 
but are always invisible 
to the naked eye. Some ^ . . ,' , 

J FIG. 128. A Piece of Bread upon which 

of them are merely 
round bodies strung to- 
gether like beads. They are so small that twenty-five 
thousand would not reach across a ten-cent coin. Of 

another kind it is said that fifteen 
hundred put end to end would 
scarcely reach across the head of 
a small pin. 

Bacteria are to be found almost 
everywhere upon the surface of 
the earth. They are in the water 
<? we drink, in the food we eat, in 
the air we breathe, and in the soil 
under our feet. Under certain con- 

FIG. 129. A N Group of Vl . . . . . . , 

Bacteria found in Sur- dltlons bacteria grow with mcred- 
face Soil ible rapidity. It is said that one 




216 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

single spore or egg can produce over ten million in a 
single day. 

300. The Work done by Bacteria. What good is done 
by the bacteria ? They feed on decaying and dead matter 
and make it fit for the food of plants. They help make 
the face of the earth sweet and clean for its inhabitants 
to live upon. If it were not for bacteria the dead plants 
and the bodies of dead animals would cover the earth 
and put a speedy end to all life. 

301. How Bacteria cause Disease. 
Some kinds of bacteria are not 
content with feeding upon dead 
plants and animals, but they must 
attack or enter our bodies, and 
FIG. 130. Scrapings from un der certain conditions may cause 

the Teeth, containing . , 11,1 T-I 

i TV** * v A sickness and death. 1 nus we may 

Several Different Kinds * 

of Bacteria. (Highly breathe certain bacteria into our 
magnified) mouths which may lodge upon the 

teeth and cause them to decay. 

Some bacteria, like diphtheria germs, may grow in 
and around the throat, but during this growth they may 
manufacture certain poisons which are taken' into the 
blood and carried into other parts of the body, causing 
disease and death. There is a certain kind of bacteria 
which lives in the earth. If it gets into the body it may 
grow and cause lockjaw. Other bacteria fall upon open 
wounds, produce inflammation, and stop their healing. 




BACTERIA AND DISEASES THAT SPREAD 



217 



302. How Germs of Disease may be carried and received. 

The germs of disease may be carried from one person 
or place to another and received, or " caught," in many 
different ways. This may 
be done by actual contact. 
Thus, if we caress a cat 
suffering with a ringworm 
on its body we may trans- 
fer some of the germs to 
our own skin, where they 
may grow into a ring- 




FIG. 131. Bacilli of Lockjaw. 
(Magnified about 1000 times) 



worm. We know that the germs of scarlet fever and 
smallpox may be caught by handling clothing worn by 
persons sick with these dreadful diseases. 

Certain kinds of bacteria may gain an entrance into 
the blood through a tiny scratch, or sore, or even 

by the prick of a pin on 
the skin. 

The germs of typhoid 
fever may be taken into 
the body with the water 
we drink and the food we 



y '.- \V * 

';$>. 



FIG. 132. Bacilli of Typhoid Fever. 
(Magnified 1000 diameters) 



eat. The typhoid germ 
has been found in ice and 
even in ice cream, and has also been traced to eating 
raw oysters that were fattened in water poisoned with 
sewage. 



218 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



303. Dust and Bacteria. Germs may stick to bits of 
dust in the air and cause disease. Our bodies furnish 
a good soil in which some of these floating germs may 
take root and grow under certain conditions. Germs 
of disease have been found in the air in Berlin, which 
were wafted in the dust blown from the great desert 
in Africa. 

The careless sweeping and dusting of sick rooms and 
the brushing of unclean clothing and furniture scatter 
these seeds of disease into the air and they may be 
breathed into our bodies. The dried sputa of a person 

afflicted with consumption 
may be blown about in the 
dust of the street. The 
germs of this disease have 
been found in the hems of 
long dress skirts that have 
swept the streets. 

304. How Our Bodies 
may defend themselves 
against Germs of Disease. 
Of course you will 
want to know how we can 
escape from these unseen 
foes which may attack our bodies at aiiy moment. 
Nobody can surely tell. Whatever wise men may think 
about it, it is true that if we are in sound health we 




FIG. 133. Bacilli of Tuberculosis 

A minute portion of sputum from a 
case of phthisis, or consumption of 
the lungs, magnified 1000 diameters. 
These bacilli are rod-shaped bacteria, 
stained to show black. The black 
spots in the figure are merely the 
debris in the sputum, also stained so 
that they look black 



BACTERIA AND DISEASES THAT SPREAD 219 

are less liable to be attacked by bacteria which bring 
disease than if we are in a weak condition from cold, lack 
of food, overwork, or indulgence in strong drink. 

305. How Nature helps to prevent the Spread of Disease. 
Our good Mother Nature has provided us with two 
powerful helps in preventing the spread of disease. 
These are pure air and pure 

water. Without them we could o%o ^4 ^ ^ 

i 11 ! r i 0<? ^l- g - W' 

keep well only for a short time. 
The air of overcrowded and 

^JL'S *0^*= r 

poorly ventilated rooms 0JJ|/ *"&'* "^y 
abounds in the germs of dis- ^ 

FIG. 134. A Group of the More 
ease, while the air of the woods Common Bacteria found in 

and the mountains is nearly Water 
free from them. ^Surface water, tainted with decaying 
vegetation, swarms with bacteria, but disease-producing 
germs are rarely found in the water of artesian wells. 

306. How the Health of the People is protected. No 
attempt was made until a few years ago to protect people 
against the spread of disease. Perhaps some of us have 
read in our histories of the many outbreaks of pesti- 
lence and sickness in Europe in olden times. Nearly 
six hundred years ago more than one half of all the 
people in England died of Black Death. The death 
rate was the highest in the filthy and undrained streets 
of London. In the year 1665 one hundred thousand 
people died in London alone of the Great Plague. The 



220 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

houses were overcrowded and wretched and the streets 
filthy. The Great Fire during the next year which burned 
over many acres in London proved a blessing in disguise. 
The people began to realize the value of cleanliness, fresh 
air, and sunlight. Thousands of lives in our large cities 
have been saved in recent years by the use of sewers, 
good drainage, and pure water. 

307. Safeguards against the Spread of Disease. There 
are several safeguards which are widely used to check 
the spread of contagious diseases. First, there is vaccina- 
tion. Most of us know what 
it is to be vaccinated and 
thus to be protected against 
a severe attack of the loath- 
some and often fatal disease 
smallpox (Sec. 218). 
FIG. 135. Bacilli of Diphtheria. Somewhat in the same 

(Magnified 1000 diameters) way the diphtheria anti- 
toxin, as it is called, is now introduced into the body to 
destroy the activity of the bacteria of this disease. 

Another safeguard against the spread of contagious 
diseases is isolation. Those who have diphtheria, scarlet 
fever, and other " catching " diseases are kept apart from 
well people, a colored card of warning is placed upon the 
house, a rigid plan of nursing is carried out, and other 
means are used to take the best care of the sick and pre- 
vent further spread of the disease. 




BACTERIA AND DISEASES THAT SPREAD 22 1 

A third familiar safeguard is disinfection, which is now 
generally recognized as a practical means of destroying 
disease-producing bacteria. 

308. Disinfection. We often hear the word disinfect- 
ant used, and we should know exactly what it means. A 
true disinfectant is a substance which is used to kill 
bacteria and their seeds or spores. 

There are some things which will only stop the growth 
of bacteria, but will not kill them. These are called 
antiseptics. Then there are other preparations which 
help to conceal disagreeable odors, but have no action 
whatever on the bacteria themselves. These substances 
are known as deodorants. 

309. The More Common Disinfectants. One of the best 
disinfectants is heat in its various forms. By its proper 
use bacteria may be readily destroyed. To burn all in- 
fected material is a sure but costly safeguard. A sim- 
ple but sure household method of heat disinfection is to 
boil any infected article from fifteen to thirty minutes. 
The various forms of heat are often used in combination 
with certain chemical disinfectants. 

Two of the most commonly used chemical disinfectants 
are solutions of carbolic acid and corrosive sublimate. 
They are both dangerous poisons and must be guarded 
with the greatest care lest some accident may occur from 
drinking them by mistake. 



222 HOW TO KEEP WELL 



QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW 

1. What secrets of Mother Nature are revealed by the microscope ? 

2. Why do many things mold or sour ? 

3. What are the three simplest forms of plant life ? 

4. What is yeast ? 

5. What is mold ? 

6. What is the common name of the third group ? 

7. Tell what you can about bacteria. 

8. Where are bacteria found ? 

9. Describe briefly the work done by bacteria. 

10. How may bacteria cause disease ? 

11. How may the germs of disease be carried ? 

12. In what ways may bacteria gain entrance into the body ? 

13. How may bacteria be carried in dust ? 

14. Show how the germs of consumption and diphtheria may be 
carried in dust. 

15. Show how our bodies may defend themselves against the germs 
of disease. 

16. What two powerful helps in preventing the spread of disease 
are provided by Nature ? 

17. Describe the outbreaks of pestilence in olden times. 

18. How is the health of the people protected in our times ? 

19. What three things do people now realize are of great importance 
in combating the ravages of disease ? 

20. What is meant by vaccination ? 

21. What is now the chief protection against the ravages of diph- 
theria ? 

22. How may isolation serve as a safeguard against diphtheria ? 

23. What is meant by disinfection ? 

24. Tell the difference between disinfectants, antiseptics, and deo- 
dorants. 

25. What are some of the more common disinfectants ? 



CHAPTER XV 

HELP AT HAND; OR WHAT TO DO FOR SIMPLE AILMENTS 
AND IN ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES 

310. What to do for Fainting. A person who faints 
should be laid flat on the back, with head lower than 
the feet. Loosen all tight clothing. Let in plenty of 
fresh air and bathe gently the head and the neck with 
cold water. Smelling salts held to the nose tend to 
excite breathing. 

311. The Sting of Insects. If a piece of the sting of a 
bee, wasp, or hornet remains in the wound, take it out 
with the fingers or with the point of a sharp knife. The 
best application is diluted carbolic acid or ammonia 
water, after which a cloth moistened with sweet oil or 
vaseline may be applied. If a person stung is far distant 
from household remedies, soaking the wound in cold 
water will often afford much relief. 

312. Frostbite. The ears, the toes, the nose, and the 
fingers are occasionally frostbitten or frozen. Rub the 
frozen parts with snow or snow water, in a cold room. 
Do not rub v after a burning, tingling sensation is felt. 

313. Nosebleed. Slight nosebleed requires little treat- 
ment. Keep the head erect. Raise up the arm on the 



224 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

bleeding side. Do not blow the nose. The patient 
should take several dee'p inspirations, filling the chest 
fully at each breath. Apply towels wrung out in cold 
water around the neck and to the upper part of the nose. 

314. Toothache. Use hot applications on the face, as 
a hot-water rubber bag or hot flatiron. If the cavity is 
large enough wind a bit of absorbent cotton around the 
end of a wooden toothpick or the sharpened end of a 
lead pencil. Moisten the pledget with creosote or oil 
of cloves. Plug the cavity with the moistened cotton, 
crowding above it a pledget of dry cotton. Care must 
be used not to wet the gums or lips with creosote or to 
use these remedies carelessly. 

315. Chapped Hands. Protect the hands from cold 
winds and dry them carefully after washing. Avoid, if 
possible, using the hands in very hot or very cold water, 
and then exposing them to bitter cold winds. Glycerin, 
diluted with rose water and well rubbed in at bedtime, 
affords much relief. If there are cracks in the skin rub 
in zinc ointment. Gloves worn at night often do much 
good. 

316. Fomentations. Flannel is sometimes wrung out 
of hot water and applied to a painful place. This is 
called a fomentation. Dip the flannel, folded several 
times into the desired shape, into boiling water; put it 
into a towel to protect the hands, and wring it. Apply 
it hot as possible, cover it carefully with larger pieces 



HELP AT HAND 225 

of flannel (oiled silk or strips of rubber sheeting are best 
of all), and use duplicate pieces to make the changes 
rapidly. 

317. Poultices. Poultices made in the proper way, 
and applied to the right spot, will give a great deal of 
relief from sudden and severe pains in the chest, abdo- 
men, and elsewhere. Poultices may be made of flaxseed, 
oatmeal, rye meal, ground slippery elm, or stale bread. 

Stir the meal slowly into a bowl of boiling water, just 
as the old-fashioned " hasty pudding " or mush is made, 
until a thin and smooth dough is formed. Fold a piece 
of old linen or thin cotton cloth of the right size in the 
middle ; spread the dough evenly, about half an inch thick, 
on one half of the cloth, and cover it with the other. 

The secret of using a poultice is to apply it hot, and 
to have a fresh one ready to take its place as soon as 
it cools. 

318. How to make a Mustard Poultice. The most com- 
mon substance used in household poultices is mustard. 
To make a "mustard paste," as it is called, mix one even 
tablespoonful of mustard and three or four of flour or 
meal with enough water or vinegar to make the mixture 
an even paste. Spread it neatly with a table knife on a 
piece of old linen, or even cotton cloth, of the required 
size. Cover the face of the paste with a thin piece of 
old muslin or linen. Now apply the plaster with its face 
down. 



226 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



THE CARE OF THE SICK ROOM 

319. Arrangement of the Sick Room. The sick room 

should have plenty of sunshine, pure fresh air, and freedom 

from noise and unpleasant odors. 
Heavy curtains and other fur- 
niture that shut out the sunlight 
and air should be removed. 

Rocking chairs should have no 
place in the sick room, as their 
motion is apt to make the patient 
nervous and irritable. 

A small table should stand at 
the bedside, upon which may be 
put the food tray, a bell, and some 
simple ornament. 

A cot bed should be provided 
for the use of the person who 
attends the patient at night. It 
should be folded and taken out 
of the room in the daytime. 
Instead. of a woolen carpet have a bare floor, with a few 
rugs and strips of carpet on it to deaden the footsteps. 

Windows that rattle, blinds that slam, and doors that 
creak are always annoying to sick people. 

320. Helps for the Sick Room. The untimely call of 
some talkative visitor has often cheated a sick person out 




FIG. 136. A Nurse for 
the Sick Room 



HELP AT HAND 



227 



of a night's much-needed rest. Ask the doctor for orders 
about the admittance of visitors and obey them to the 
letter. 

Avoid all talk in the sick room of the patient's symp- 
toms, his chances for recovery, the lack of appetite, the 
loss of flesh and strength, and other personal matters 
which have an important bearing upon the welfare of the 
sick person. 

Do not lean upon, sit upon, or jar the sick bed. The 
bed should be kept solely for the patient. 

Do not whisper in or about the sick room. Speak 
aloud, but in a low, gentle voice. Those who attend the 
sick should answer the questions of the patient plainly 
and without hesitation. 

321. Hints on nursing Infectious and Contagious Diseases. 
The children who have not been attacked should be 
sent, if possible, to houses where there are no children. 
Call or notify the doctor, that a card of warning may be 
placed upon the house. Remove from the sick room all 
carpets, rugs, curtains, and stuffed furniture. 

Take great pains in regard to cleanliness. Boil fre- 
quently the dishes and all utensils used in the sick room. 
Soiled clothing should never be put into the family wash, 
but put to soak at once in disinfectants. So far as con- 
venient, use only such old and worn clothing about the 
bed or on the person of the patient as may be burned. 
The discharges from the bowels and kidneys should 



228 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

never be allowed to remain in the sick room, but should 
be removed at once, and all vessels thoroughly washed 
in hot disinfectants. 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES 

322. First Aid in Accidents and Emergencies. Can a 
boy or girl learn how to give first aid in the more com- 
mon accidents and emergencies that are liable to happen 
any time ? Certainly. With a little pains every young 
person can become familiar with a few of the simplest 
helps, and also learn how to apply them. 

Besides learning how to keep ourselves well and strong, 
we should learn how to help those around us who hap- 
pen to suffer from some accident or have need of our 
services in sickness. 

323. The First Thing to be done. Accidents and sick- 
ness are so common that we hardly need to be told of 
those sudden dangers which so often give us a chance to 
lend a hand; as, for example, a child may accidentally 
swallow some poison, or set his clothing on fire ; a boy 
may fall and break his arm, or may be taken out of the 
river apparently drowned ; a member of the family may 
be suddenly ill with some contagious disease, or may be 
nearly suffocated with coal gas. 

All these and similar emergencies call for a cool head 
and a steady hand. It will give us a certain amount of 



HELP AT HAND 



229 



self-confidence and self-control if we know what to do. 
Whatever we do must be done promptly, but not with 
haste. 

324. Fits or Convulsions. A sufferer from convulsions 
or " fits " foams at the mouth, rolls up his eyes, and often 
bites his tongue or lips. 

See that the patient does not injure himself; crowd a 
folded handkerchief between the teeth, to prevent biting 
the lips or the tongue. Unfasten the clothing about the 
neck and chest. 

325. Foreign Bodies in the Nose. Marbles, beans, peas, 
fruit stones, buttons, and other small objects are some- 
times pushed into the nose by children. Try to get the 
child to help by blowing the nose hard. A sharp blow 
between the shoulders will often cause the substance to 
fall out. Stop the well nostril and direct the patient to 
blow suddenly and forcibly through the other nostril. 

326. Foreign Bodies in the Ear. If the substance is 
one that will not swell, syringe in a little warm water. 
This will often wash out the substance. If an insect 
crawls into the ear, drop in a little sweet oil or molasses. 
If the top of the outer ear is pulled up gently, the liquid 
will flow in more readily. 

327. Foreign Bodies in the Throat. Bits of food and 
other small objects that sometimes lodge in the throat 
are usually readily removed by the forefinger, or by 
sharp slaps on the back. 



230 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



If there are sudden fits of coughing, with a dusky hue 
and a look of distress about the face, medical help must 
be called at once. 

Coins, pencils, keys, fruit stones, and other small 
objects are sometimes swallowed. It is safer to give 
plenty of hard-boiled eggs, cheese, potatoes, and butter 

crackers, and allow the sub- 
stance to pass off in the 
natural way than to give 
some active laxative. 

328. Foreign Bodies in the 
Eye. Do not rub the eye, 
as it will only make a bad 
matter worse. Often the 
tears will wash the sub- 
stance away. It may some- 
times be removed with the 
twisted corner of a handker- 
chief. 

If the offending substance 
cannot be removed, the upper lid may be turned back. 
The upper eyelid may be everted, or turned back, as 
follows: Seize the lashes between the thumb and fore- 
finger and gently draw the edge of the lid away from the 
eyeball. Now, telling the patient to look down, press a 
slender lead pencil or penholder against the lid, parallel 
to and above the edge, and then pull the edge up and 




FIG. 137. Showing how the Upper 
Eyelid may be turned back with 
the Help of a Penholder 

(From a photograph taken in the 
schoolroom) 



HELP AT HAND 



231 



turn it over the pencil by means of the lashes. The eye 
is now readily examined, and usually the foreign body 
may be seen and easily removed with the corner of a 
pocket handkerchief. After the substance has been re- 
moved bathe the eye with hot water until the pain stops. 

329. Suffocation. What is known as asphyxia, or suf- 
focation, usually results from 'poisonous gases from the 
fumes cf burning coal in the furnace or stove ; from 
illuminating gas blown out by a draught ; from the foul 
air often found in old wells ; from the fumes of char- 
coal ; and from the foul air of mines. 

The first thing to do is to give fresh air. Remove 
the person to the open air and place him on his back. 
Loosen all tight clothing about the chest and neck and 
apply cold water. Rub the limbs vigorously. If the 
breathing is feeble send for medical help. Meanwhile, 
artificial respiration may be tried, as described in Sec- 
tion 338. 

330. Sunstroke and Heatstroke. There is sudden loss 
of consciousness in sunstroke, with deep, labored breath- 
ing, an intense, burning heat of the skin, and a marked 
absence of sweat. 

The first thing to do is to lower the temperature. 
Strip off the clothing to the waist. Apply chopped ice 
wrapped in flannel to the head and back of the neck. 
Rub ice over x the chest, and place pieces under the arm- 
pits and at the sides. If there is no ice, use cloths wrung 



232 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

out in cold water. Persons who have once suffered from 
sunstroke should avoid any risk afterwards. 

331. Burns and Scalds. In burns and scalds do not pull 
off the clothing suddenly, but cut and coax it away from 
the burnt places with sharp scissors. Do not break the 
blisters, but save the skin unbroken if possible. 

Avoid charing, and keep out the air. Baking soda, 
used dry or dissolved in water, is a good household 
remedy for burns. Another remedy often used is the 
application of strips of old linen soaked in a mixture of 
half linseed oil and half limewater (carron oil). 

Spread freely plain vaseline or carbolized vaseline on 
strips of old linen with a table knife. Apply to the 
burnt parts, and protect them from the air with bandages, 
lint, or wads of absorbent cotton. If the burn is deep or 
extensive, secure medical help at once. 

332. Bruises, Cuts, and Torn Wounds. A bruise is an 
injury of the soft parts, caused by a blow of some blunt 
instrument or by a fall. A " black " eye, black-and-blue 
spots on the legs, a finger hurt by a baseball, a sprain of 
the knee or ankle in playing football, are familiar acci- 
dents on the athletic field. Bathe the injured parts in 
hot water to reduce the inflammation and relieve the 
pain. If the cuts are small, clean the parts, bring the 
edges together, and stick them with plaster. 

When wounds have ragged edges, such as those caused 
by broken glass, splinters, toy pistols, or rusty nails, more 



HELP AT HAND 



233 



skill is called for. Such wounds often lead to serious 
results from blood poisoning. The services of a doctor 
are usually necessary. 

333. The Difference be- 
tween Bleeding from an 
Artery and Bleeding from 
a Vein. It is always an 
important matter to know 
the difference between 
bleeding from an artery 
and bleeding from a vein. 

If an artery bleeds, the 
blood is of a bright scarlet 
color, and spurts in a 
stream. If a vein bleeds, 
the blood is of a somewhat 
darker color, and slowly 
oozes out, or flows in a 
steady stream. 

Bleeding from an artery 
may be dangerous, and 
life itself may be speedily 
lost if the artery is large. 
Bleeding from a vein, on 
the other hand, is rarely a 
serious injury, and usually stops of itself, although the 
bleeding may be relieved, if need be, by pressure. 




FIG. 138. Showing how an Im- 
provised Apparatus may be used 
to check Bleeding from an Artery 
in the Arm 

This apparatus consists of half of a 
potato held in place over the artery 
by a pocket handkerchief used as a 
band. A stick, picked up on the 
ground, is inserted beneath the band 
on the opposite side of the limb, and 
used as a lever to press the potato 
firmly against the artery 



234 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



334. What to do for Arterial Bleeding. In all cases of 
arterial bleeding remember to make deep pressure between 
the wound and the heart. Send at once for the doctor. 

Meanwhile there is something to do. Keep cool, and 
do not be afraid to act at once. A firm grip with the 

fingers in the right place will 
do until a twisted handker- 
chief, stout cord, shoestring, 
or suspender is ready to take 
its place. Make a knot in 
whatever is used, and bring 
the pressure of the knot to 
bear over the artery. If the 
flow of blood does not stop, 
change the pressure until the 
right spot is found and the 
bleeding ceases. 

335. How to apply Pressure. 
FIG. 139. Showing how Firm ft J s important to know 

Pressure may be made with . , , , 

the Fingers to compress the the Principal places where 
Brachial Artery of the Left pressure IS to be applied 

Arm. Some Large Superficial wlien ar teries are injured and 

Veins are also shown 

bleeding. 

If the wound is in a finger, grasp it with the thumb 
and forefinger, and pinch it firmly on each side; if in 
the hand, press with the thumb just above and in front 
of the wrist. 




HELP AT HAND 



235 



For injuries below the elbow, grasp the upper part of 
the forearm with the hands and squeeze hard. 

For the upper arm, press with the fingers against the 
inner edge of the biceps 
muscle. 

For the foot or leg, press 
in the hollow behind the 
knee, just above the calf 
of the leg. 

336. Broken Bones. - 
Send for a surgeon at 




once. Loss of power, pain, 
and swelling are symp- 
toms of a broken bone that 
are usually easily recog- 
nized. 

Broken limbs should 
always be handled with 
great care. If the acci- 
dent happens at a distance 

from immediate help, the This tem p rary dressing consists of two 

limb should be bound 
with handkerchiefs, sus- 
penders, or strips of cloth- 
ing to a piece of board, pasteboard, or bark, padded with 
moss or grass. Always put a broken arm into some kind 
of sling after the temporary splints are put on. 



FIG. 140. Showing how an Impro- 
vised Apparatus may be used for a 
Broken Radius 



pieces of oak bark for splints, with 
grass for padding, and is secured in 
place by a boy's long stocking and a 
pocket handkerchief 



236 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 




If it is not necessary to move the patient, 
keep the limb in a natural, restful position 
until the doctor comes. 

If the injured per- 
son must be moved, 

do not do so until 
FIG. 141. A Broken Radius .i -\- i j 

the limb is made 

safe from further injuries by putting on some kind 
of support or splint. 

337. What to do in Appar- 
ent Drowning. Remove all 
tight clothing from the neck, 
chest, and waist. 

Turn the body 
on the face, rais- 
ing it a little with 
the hand under 

, . ., FIG. 142. A Broken Collar Bone 

the hips, to allow 

any water to run out from the air passages. 
Then lay the person flat upon the back, with 
a folded coat, or pad of any kind, under the 
shoulders, to raise them a little. Remove all 
the wet, clinging clothing that is convenient. 
If in a room or sheltered place, 
strip the body and wrap it in blankets, 
FIG. 143. A Broken overcoats, etc. Use bottles of hot 
Shin Bone, or Tibia water, hot flatirons, or hot sand round 





HELP AT HAND 



237 



the limbs and feet. The main thing to do in apparent 
drowning, or in other cases of suspended animation,- is 
to keep up artificial respiration until the natural breath- 
ing comes, or till all hope is lost. 

338. How to produce Artificial Respiration. The patient 
is laid on the back. Let some one kneel behind the 
head and grasp both arms near the elbows, sweeping 




FIG. 144. Production of Artificial Respiration. (First 
Movement Inspiration) 

them upward above the head until they nearly touch. 
Make a firm pull for a moment. This tends to fill the 
lungs with air by drawing the ribs up and making the 
chest cavity larger. 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 

Now return the arms to the sides of the body until 
they press hard against the ribs. This tends to force 
out the air. Repeat this act about fifteen times every 
minute. All this may be continued for several hours. 




FIG. 145. Production of Artificial Respiration. 
(Second Movement Expiration) 

When a person can breathe, even a little, he can swal- 
low. Then give a few teaspoonfuls of hot, strong coffee 
or hot ginger tea every few minutes. 

339. Accidental Poisoning. Poisons of various kinds 
are often kept about the house, stable, bathrooms, and 
workshops as medicines, as disinfectants, for killing 
insects and animals, and for many other purposes. 



HELP AT HAND 239 

People are often careless in leaving poisons in the 
cupboard, or on a shelf, wrapped in a piece of paper, or 
in some unlabeled bottle. Children either mistake them, 
or are urged by some playmate to swallow them. 

340. Safeguards against Poisoning. Poisons should 
always be carefully labeled, and the word POISON 
plainly printed in large letters across the label. 

Fasten the cork firmly to the bottle by copper wire 
twisted into a knot at the top. This or some other 
simple plan would serve to prevent a person in the dark 
from mistaking liquid poisons for medicine. 

Poisons should never be kept in the same place with 
medicines or other bottled preparations used in the 
household. Put them in some secure place, and under 
lock and key. 

Here is a golden rule : Never use the contents of any 
package or bottle unless you know exactly what it is. 

341. What to do in Poisoning. Poisons may be taken 
when it is hard to procure medical help. In such case 
something must be done at once and in earnest, as they 
do their work rapidly. 

The stomach must be emptied as speedily as possible. 
Make a quart of warm soapsuds, and force the sufferer 
to gulp it down, a cupful at a time. 

A good emetic is made by putting a tablespoonful of 
ground mustard into a quart of warm water. Drink a 
cupful every ten minutes until vomiting is produced. 



240 HOW TO KEEP WELL 



QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW 

1. What would you do for fainting ? 

2. What is good treatment for the sting of insects ? 

3. How would you treat frostbite ? 

4. What would you do for nosebleed ? 

5. What can you say about some remedies for toothache ? 

6. How would you treat chapped hands ? 

7. How would you prepare fomentations ? 

8. What are poultices, and what are they used for ? 

9. How would you make a mustard poultice ? 

10. What hints can you give about the care of a sick room ? 

11. With what other helps for the sick room are you familiar ? 

12. What practical hints can you give on nursing infectious 
and contagious diseases? 

13. How can a boy pr girl learn to be of service in accidents and 
emergencies? 

14. Describe the treatment for fits or convulsions. 

15. What is the treatment for foreign bodies in the nose ? In the 
ear ? In the throat ? In the eye ? 

16. Describe the treatment for sunstroke. 

17. What should be done for burns and scalds ? 

18. Describe a simple treatment for bruises and cuts. 

19. How may you know the difference between bleeding from an 
artery and bleeding from a vein ? 

20. What is the chief thing to be done for arterial bleeding ? 

21. Where and how would you apply pressure in bleeding from 
arteries ? 

22. What would you do for broken bones ? 

23. What is to be done in apparent drowning ? 

24. Describe the process of producing artificial respiration. 

25. What are some common safeguards against poisoning ? 

26. What are the important things to do in case of poisoning ? 



NOTES 

CHAPTER III, PAGE 31 

THE MUSCLES 

1. The influence of alcohol upon muscular work has been estab- 
lished experimentally ; it has been demonstrated that man works 
better when he does not use this pretended stimulant. . . . The 
physiological experiments of Destre'e have established that alcohol 
is a paralyzer of muscular work. DR. J. DE VAUCLEROY, Professor 
of Hygiene in the Military School of Belgium. 

2. Every penny which the workman spends for alcoholic drinks 
is not only wasted but employed for a destructive purpose. The 
workman would use the money expended for alcohol to the best 
advantage if he purchased fatty foods and sugar instead. ADOLF 
FICK, late Professor of Physiology, University of Wiirzburg. 

3. The Cyclists 1 Route Book is explicit enough : " Alcoholic drinks 
should be avoided; they prevent good work being done." DR. 
ANDREW BAXTER in Scottish League Journal. 

4. On January 4, 1891, Davis Dalton accomplished the feat of 
swimming twelve hours on his back without using his arms or leav- 
ing the water. He attributed his successful endurance to absti- 
nence from alcohol. "No man," he said, "who took a drink could 
possibly perform the feat." DR. ANDREW BAXTER in Scottish 
League Journal. 

5. It is the same in cold countries and in temperate regions. 
Most arctic explorers reject the use of alcohol. . . . Mountain 
guides, balloohists, bicyclists, so numerous nowadays, and athletes 
in general recognize the bad effect of alcohol on the muscular energy 
developed. E. DESTREE, Professor in the University of Brussels. 

241 



242 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

6. A six days' bicycle race, which took place in December, 1898, 
in New York, has proved once more the superior endurance of total 
abstainers. 

The winner, Charles W. Miller of Chicago, rode more than 2000 
miles from midnight, December 4, to midnight of December 10. 
He finished the race without sustaining perceptible bodily injury ; 
he was sound physically and mentally, and needed only a little 
food and sleep for complete restoration. 

At the beginning of the race he had thirty-three competitors, 
but from the beginning it was seen that the game was to be played 
by four men, C. W. Miller, F. Waller, B. W. Pierce, and F. Albert. 
Miller, who made 2007 miles, is a total abstainer. Waller covered 
1985 miles ; he took no alcoholic drinks during this racing. Pierce 
accomplished 1906 miles ; he drinks a little ; once he took a spoon- 
ful of brandy. ' Albert, who made 1822 miles, took a glass now and 
then, and drank a little beer during the race. The opinion of racers 
is that any habitual drinker could not have endured this terrible 
contest. 1} Abstinence. 

7. A healthy man, with well-aerated blood, taking good nourish- 
ing food, and giving every part of his body a certain amount of rest, 
is able to accomplish a definite amount of work, the maximum being 
attained when the work can be done at regular intervals, and in a 
definite period. No amount of alcohol, however given, can increase 
the amount of work done in that same period without giving rise to 
very serious disturbances in some part or other of the body ; indeed, 
the amount of work is never increased, as any temporary excitement 
is invariably, followed by depression of such nature that the increase 
of work supposed to be done during the period of excitation is far 
more than counterbalanced by the diminution in the amount of 
work done during the period of depression. G. SIMS WOODHEAD, 
M.D., Professor of Pathology, Cambridge University, England. 

8. The idea that tobacco gives increased power to endure either 
physical or mental hardships is one of the greatest delusions of the 
age. Tobacco and alcohol, though unlike in many respects, have 



NOTES 



243 



many points of resemblance, and arguments against one are usually 
valid against the other. Both are poisons, and both are regarded 
by many as necessities. It was formerly thought that alcohol aug- 
mented strength, but it has been found by experiments that the man 
who drinks it cannot lift so heavy a weight as those who do not, 
though he feels as if he could lift a much heavier one. Tobacco 
may for a short time make a man less conscious of his fatigue ; but 
the truth is that his strength is diminished rather than increased by 
its use. THOMAS G. ROBERTS, M. D. 

CHAPTER VI, PAGE 74 

ORIGIN AND NATURE OF FERMENTED DRINKS 

9. As regards the use of alcohol in small doses and alcohol in 
any form, I may simply reply that a poison is a pois'on, no matter 
how it is taken. Mercury is mercury, no matter in what form we 
give it. ALBERT E. STERNE, M.D., Professor of Nervous and Mental 
Diseases, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Indianapolis, in 
Journal of the American Medical Association. 

10. The limited advantage claimed in favor of the food value of 
alcohol is now further reduced and even made nil by the fact that 
alcohol appears to be a more or less dangerous poison for the 
human animal body, and that all its supposed blessings must be pur- 
chased at an extraordinarily high price. PROFESSOR T. LAIT INEN 
in Zeitschrift fiir Hygiene. 

11. There is no escape from the fact that alcohol is a poison, 
especially to the nervous system, one whose effects naturally will 
vary with the amounts and the frequency with which it is used 
and the stability of the structure upon which its influence is exerted. 
Philadelphia Medical Journal. 

12. This association should continue to urge the necessity of 
further legislation to check the ravages of that seductive but destruc- 
tive poison [alcohol]. R. PERCY SMITH, M.D., in a lecture before 
the British Medical Association, August i, 1900. 



244 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

13. All the alcohols are dangerous poisons. M. MAGMAN, in a 
discussion before the French Academy of Sciences, July 30, 1895. 

14. We all acknowledge that alcohol is a poison and alcoholism 
is a scourge. M. DARENBURG, Secretary of the French Academy 
of Sciences. 

15. Alcohol is always a poison. M. J. ROCHARD, Member of the 
French Academy of Sciences. 

16. Alcohol is a very dangerous poison ; its constantly increasing 
use, particularly in its worst form, whisky, is so terrible an economic, 
moral, and sanitary evil that all means calculated to check its use 
in the least are to be greeted with joy. PROFESSOR MAX GRUBER, 
President of Royal Institute of Hygiene, Munich. 

17. In consequence of the widespread use of alcoholic liquors as 
beverages, baleful effects of this poison are not confined to indi- 
viduals. They affect and are felt by whole communities. Absolute 
alcohol under all circumstances, even in small quantities, produces 
symptoms of poisoning. ZIEMSSEN'S Cyclopedia of the Practice of 
Medicine. 

18. Alcohol must be regarded as a poison. International Mani- 
festo signed by more than eight hundred physicians in ten different 
countries in Europe and America. 

19. Alcohol is certainly not a food but a slow poison to all who 
habitually use it, causing not "a short life and a merry one," as some 
would say, but a short life and a sickly life. CHARLES R. DRYSDALE, 
M.D., Consulting Physician, Metropolitan Hospital, London, England. 

20. Alcohol is a poison, and the cause of a huge death-rate. I do 
not think this will be disputed. It has been proved too often and 
too thoroughly and completely by common experience. . . . Alco- 
hol poisons most those who drink most. DR. ARCHDALL REID, 
Edinburgh, Scotland. 

21. There is not the least doubt that alcohol is a poison. PRO- 
FESSOR WAGNER VON JAUREGG, University of Vienna. 

22. Let a man drink much beer, enough to make the amount of 
nourishment in it of value, and the other influences produced by 



NOTES 



2 45 



such a quantity will become manifest to such a degree as to cast 
the factor of nourishment into the background. If he drinks little 
beer, the food value is not appreciable. J. ROSENTHAL, M.D., 
Professor of Physiology and Hygiene in Erlangen. 

23. Drunkenness is seizing with a terrible grip the working popu- 
lation of Belgium. Belgium is only surpassed by Bavaria in the 
consumption of beer, two hundred and forty litres a year being 
credited to each inhabitant. The London Lancet, 1888. 

24. From the physician's standpoint nothing is more false than 
the belief that the progressive dislodgment of other alcoholic drinks 
by beer will diminish the destructive influence of alcoholism. 
PROFESSOR G. VON BUNGE, in Die Alkoholfragc. 

25. Any increased consumption of beer, however good for the 
brewers and the national exchequer, will not conduce to sobriety or 
to a diminution of the disease and misery produced by alcoholism. 
The London Lancet \ 1899. 

26. Beer cannot be used as a weapon against spirits. An increase 
of the use of beer does not cause a diminution in the use of spirits. 
It is not true that beer is less harmful than spirits. For the people 
as a whole quite the contrary is true. . . . The whole question 
whether beer can be used in the war against spirits has, there- 
fore, not only been settled long ago to the disfavor of beer, but it is 
to-day senseless and dangerous, since it veils the real danger which 
threatens us and conceals the abyss before which we stand. H. 
BLOCHER, M.D., Basle, Switzerland. 

27. Dr. Smith, of Schloss Marbach, in a paper read before the 
Society of German Naturalists and Physicians, at Vienna, a few 
years ago, severely criticised the drinking habits of the Germans, 
which have invaded all ranks of society, and which he believes are 
causing a deterioration of the German nation, which will ultimately 
put them at a decided disadvantage in comparison with temperate 
nations. J. H. KELLOGG, M.D., 1896. 



246 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

CHAPTER VII, PAGE 87 

DIGESTION, AND HOW IT GOES ON 

28. It is commonly thought that alcoholic drinks act as aids 
to digestion. In reality it would appear that the contrary is the 
case. . . . The inhibitory influence of alcohol on digestion has been 
observed on a patient with a gastric fistula, on several other per- 
sons by the aid of the stomach pump, and by means of numerous 
other experiments. PROFESSOR G. VON BUNGE, Basle, Switzerland. 

29. No experiments on alcohol and its influence on digestion 
(Chittenden and Mendel, for instance) have ever disclosed any 
beneficial effect of it. DR. P. A. LEVENE, New York. 

30. Nearly the whole of the alcohol consumed is absorbed by the 
capillaries of the stomach and carried in the blood to the liver, 
where it is in consequence more concentrated than when it has 
passed through other parts of the body ; therefore we find that its 
effects on the liver are more marked than on other organs, and we 
get cirrhosis, enlargement, and fatty degeneration of that organ as 
the result of direct interference with the liver cells and the peculiar 
action of alcohol on the connective tissue, which it transforms from 
a permeable tissue into a dense, more or less impermeable tough 
structure resembling parchment. SURGEON-MAJOR G. F. POYNDER. 

31. We generally find cirrhosis is due to alcohol. Cirrhosis of 
the liver is commonly spoken of as gin-drinker's liver. And it has 
been established that a number of cases even in children were really 
due to alcoholism. JAGOBI'S Clinical Lectures on Pediatrics. 

CHAPTER VIII, PAGE in 

THE BLOOD AND ITS CIRCULATION 

32. Of these indirect effects (of alcohol), none is more often 
observed than a quickening or slowing in the pulse rate, as is fre- 
quently seen in medical practice. These indirect influences must 



NOTES 247 

not be allowed to hide the true character of alcohol, which is always 
depressant in kind, and which easily gets the upper hand of the 
effects just noted. In a word, alcohol, in respect to its inherent 
action, when once in the blood and tissues, must be classed with 
the anaesthetics and narcotics. PROFESSOR J. J. ABEL of Johns 
Hopkins University. 

33. Fatty degeneration of the endothelial cells and sometimes of 
the smooth muscle is found with sufficient frequency in the blood 
vessels of different organs to be ascribed to the effect of the alcohol. 
PROFESSOR W. H. WELCH of Johns Hopkins University. 

34. A man is as old as his arteries. If a man is forty years of age, 
and his arteries are as if he were eighty years of age, the man is that 
age, as far as his chances of life are concerned. Alcohol is only 
one of the causes of this hardening, I admit, but it is an important 
one. PROFESSOR G. SIMS WOODHEAD, Cambridge University, Eng- 
land. 

35. More serious [than the effects of alcohol upon the liver] is 
the excessive deposit of fat in the muscle-substance of the heart, a 
condition that is called fatty heart. When the heart is thus infil- 
trated with fat, and in place of effective muscle-substance contains 
this inert, in a certain sense, dead mass, there is as a natural result 
a considerable lowering of the working ability of the heart, which, 
like a pump, has to drive the nourishing blood to all the body 
organs. Therefore the blood gradually becomes sluggish in the 
different organs, namely, in the respiratory, digestive, and nervous 
systems. Such persons have an irregular, weak heart-beat, a 
chronic laryngeal and bronchial catarrh develops, and digestion 
becomes constantly poorer and slower ; there are also brain and 
nerve derangements, due not only to the stagnation of the blood, 
but also to the direct action of alcohol upon the nerve cells. DR. 
WEICHSELBAUM, Vienna. 

36. The injurious effects of tobacco on the heart are well known. 
It is a common experience for the physician, in examining candidates 
for life insurance, to come unexpectedly, in an otherwise apparently 



248 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

healthy person, upon the peculiar nervous pulse and quick, jerky 
heart-beat, rapidly mounting up under the slight exertion or excite- 
ment of the examination to 100 or 120 beats per minute, sometimes 
intermitting, and sometimes presenting a slight valvular murmur, 
which denotes an excessive user of the weed, and which is known 
as "tobacco heart." In its slighter degrees a cure is readily effected 
by abstinence from tobacco. J. M. FRENCH, M.D., Milford, Mass. 

CHAPTER IX, PAGE 131 

WHY AKD HOW WE BREATHE 

37. Alcoholism makes the bed of tuberculosis. DR. LANDOUZY, 
of the French Academy of Medicine. 

38. The use of alcohol renders the human system susceptible to 
tuberculosis, and prevents recovery from the same. Alcoholism 
increases the bad effects of those diseases from which tuberculosis 
most easily develops. DR. LEGRAIN of Paris. 

39. Catarrh of the pharynx, larynx, and bronchi is common in 
alcoholic patients. PROFESSOR W. H. WELCH of Johns Hopkins 
University. 

CHAPTER XII, PAGE 176 

THB NERVOUS SYSTEM 

40. Men say and do after a single glass of strong drink what they 
would not say or do without it, and therefore it clearly affects the 
brain and diminishes self-control. PROFESSOR G. SIMS WOODHEAD, 
Cambridge University, England. 

41. There is good testimony, not yet controverted or even con- 
tradicted, that comparatively small doses of alcohol have a direct 
deleterious action on the nervous functions and the capacity for 
work. Journal of the American Medical Association. 

42. A German scientist has carefully watched the effect of two 
glasses of whisky a day on a man's ability to do mental work, and 



NOTES 249 

has detected striking results. He tested a strong man, who was a 
total abstainer, as to the amount of intellectual effort he could put 
forth with and without alcohol. . . . The effect of one dose i.e. 
two glasses lasted ten hours. Its continued use day after day 
decreased still more the ability to do good work. If the dose were 
increased to three glasses a day, in five days the power of the brain 
was diminished enormously. If the use of alcohol was discontinued 
and the brain allowed to get rid of the poison, the intellectual power 
began to rise, and by and by it would reach its normal limit. A 
repetition of the experiment proved that the result from the alcohol 
[then] came much more readily than at first, showing that the brain 
had received an actual injury. Even if seven days were allowed to 
elapse before the experiment was repeated, one dose brought a return 
of all the symptoms. T. S. CLOUSTON, M.D., Edinburgh, Scotland. 

43. The brutality of many of the acts which occupy the time of 
our coroners and our law courts is becoming serious. . . . Every 
day's newspaper reports some deed which is simply brutal in its 
coarseness and its carelessness. . . . The invariable element in all 
such brutal acts is alcohol. The London Lancet, 1898. 

44. Disastrous as is the use of alcohol to our physical well-being, 
the evil wrought by it here is as nothing to the moral and intellectual 
degradation brought about in minds and characters of which the ori- 
ginal possibilities were of the very highest order. PROFESSOR G. 
SIMS WOODHEAD, Cambridge University, England. 

45. Alcohol diminishes the keenness of the moral sense ; it blunts 
the acuity of discrimination between right and wrong, and it impairs 
the will power, the power to do right, and easily leads its victims 
into a vicious life. DANIEL R. BROWER, M.D., LL.D., Chicago, 111. 

46. In France it has been found that insanity has increased with 
the increase of drunkenness. C. W. CHANCELLOR, U. S. Consul to 
Havre, France. 

47. I do not advise you, young men, to consecrate the flower of 
your life to painting the bowl of a pipe, for, let me assure you, the 
stain of a reverie-breeding narcotic may strike deeper than you 



250 HOW TO KEEP WELL 

think. I have seen the green leaf of early promise grow brown 
before its time under such nicotian regimen, and thought the 
ambered meerschaum was dearly bought at the cost of a brain 
enfeebled and a will enslaved. OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES. 

48. Tobacco destroys the bodies and stupefies the minds of 
nations. It is the undoubted adversary of intelligence. ALEXANDRE 
DUMAS. 

CHAPTER XIII, PAGE 196 . 

THE FIVE GATEWAYS OF KNOWLEDGE 

49. Careful observers have noted, before and after the use of 
alcohol, the condition of the senses, and in all cases a diminution 
in acuteness and activity was observed. While a man may believe 
that his senses are keener and his powers of endurance greater, 
careful experiments with instruments of precision have shown 
that his hearing is reduced, his acuity of vision is lowered, his 
taste obtunded, his sense of smell blunted. A. D. McCoNACHiE, 
M.D., Baltimore, Md. 

50. Professor Abel, of Johns Hopkins University, thus reports 
experiments made to test the effect of alcohol upon the ability to 
measure distance with the eye. The investigator used an apparatus 
which " consisted of a strip of wood exactly one meter in length, 
whose divisions were marked on the opposite side of the observer. 
An assistant moved a sliding marker until the subject of the experi- 
ment believed that the pointer had reached the middle point of the 
strip. Equal illumination of the two halves of the bar and good 
light for the observer were among the many precautions. Ten 
readings were taken during each trial, and the pointer was started 
alternately from the right and left ends of the bar." The average 
error in the eye measurement without alcohol was 0.19 cm.; with 
alcohol it was 0.44 cm. Alcohol increased the error .25 cm. 

51. The subjects who usually suffer with tobacco blindness are 
almost always males between the ages of 30 and 60 years. Exceptions 



NOTES 251 

to this occasionally occur, and in my own series of examinations 
I found one man aged 19 who presented a well-marked case of 
this trouble. He was a most inveterate chewer and smoker of 
tobacco. . . . These patients see better in the evening than in 
the middle of the day. . . . They often complain of a glimmer- 
ing mist which covers all objects, especially in a bright light. 
Journal of the American Medical Association, 1900. 

52. That tobacco contains some substance injurious to the eyes 
has been well proved by an outbreak of blindness among horses 
in a district in Australia where a kind of wild tobacco plant began 
growing in the pastures soon after a local flood. The horses in 
other respects were well. The blindness came on very gradually, 
taking sometimes two years, and was confined to the districts where 
the tobacco plant grew. 

53. Not long since a large railroad corporation investigated the 
conditions surrounding every accident that had occurred on its lines 
during the preceding five years. It was found that forty per cent of 
all accidents were due entirely or in part to drinking men. In 
eighteen per cent it was strongly suspected that the drinking habit 
among employees was the cause of accidents. The company lost 
property to the amount of one million dollars in a single year through 
the incompetence of beer-drinking engineers and switchmen. 

54. Michigan has passed a law which imposes a heavy penalty 
upon those railroad companies who employ men who are in the 
habit of using alcoholic intoxicants. Railroad managers, as prac- 
tical business men, are recognizing the utility of employing total 
abstainers as a measure calculated to reduce financial losses on 
account of accidents. J. W. GROSVENOR, M.D., in Journal of tht 
American Medical Association, 1896. 



GLOSSARY OF TECHNICAL TERMS 



Many words that are defined or explained as they occur in the text of this book, or the meaning of 
which is readily understood, have been omitted. 



Ab-do'men. The largest cavity of the 
body, containing the liver, the stom- 
ach, the intestines, and other organs. 

Ab-sorp'tion. The process of sucking 
up nutritive or waste matters by the 
blood vessels or lymphatics. 

Al-bu'men. Formerly used as a syno- 
nym for proteid. 

Al-bu'min. A class of proteids, as egg 
albumin. 

Al'i-men'ta-ry. Pertaining to aliment, 
or food. 

Al'i-men'ta-ry ca-nal'. The digestive 
tube from the lips to the end of the 
rectum, with its accessory glands. 

Al'ka-lies. Certain substances, such 
as soda, potash, and the like, which 
unite with acids to form salts. 

A-mce'ba. A single-celled, protoplas- 
mic animal, which has the power of 
changing its form by protrusions and 
withdrawals of its substance. 

A-mce'boid. Like an amoeba in form 
or in movement. 

An'aes-thet'ic. A substance which pro- 
duces insensibility to pain or to touch, 
as chloroform^ ether, etc. 

An'ti-dote. A substance given to pre- 
vent or counteract the action of a 
poison. 



An'ti-sep'tic. A remedy or agent which 
prevents the development of bacteria, 
or prevents the growth of bacteria 
upon which putrefaction depends. 

An'ti-tox'in. A substance which neu- 
tralizes the action of the toxins of 
bacteria. Antitoxins are used in the 
treatment of certain infectious dis- 
eases, as diphtheria. 

Ap'pa-ra'tus. Used to designate col- 
lectively organs which perform a cer- 
tain function. 

As-phyx'i-a. Suffocation. The sus- 
pension of vital phenomena when the 
lungs are deprived of oxygen. 

As-sim'i-la'tion. The conversion of 
food into living tissue. 

Ba-cil'lus. A microscopic rod-shaped 
form of bacteria. 

Bac-te'ri-cide. An agent that destroys 
bacteria. 

Bac-te'ri-um, pi. bac-te'ri-a. A micro- 
scopic vegetable organism. 

Cap'il-la-ry. A minute vessel, as those 
that connect by a network the arte- 
ries and veins. 

Car'bon di-ox'ide. A gas produced in 
the respiration of animals, and in the 



253 



254 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



decay or combustion of organic mat- 
ter. Often called carbonic acid gas. 

Car'di-ac or/i-fice. The orifice of the 
stomach, near the heart. 

Car'ron oil (from its first use at the 
Carron Iron Works in Scotland). A 
mixture of equal parts of linseed oil 
and limewater. 

Car'ti-lage. Gristle. A tough but flex- 
ible tissue forming a part of the 
joints, air passages, nose, ears, etc. 

Ca'se-in. A proteid substance found 
especially in milk. The principal in- 
gredient in cheese. 

Cell. One of the ultimate units of which 
all living bodies are composed. A mass 
of protoplasm containing a nucleus. 

Chlo'ral. A powerful drug and nar- 
cotic poison used to produce sleep. 

Chlo'ro-form. A narcotic poison gen- 
erally used by inhalation; of exten- 
sive use in surgical operations to pro- 
duce anaesthesia. 

Cil'i-a. Minute threadlike processes 
found upon the cells of the air pas- 
sages and other parts. 

Co-ag'u-la'tion. The process by which 
a liquid like blood or milk clots, or 
solidifies. 

Co'ca-ine. A bitter, white substance 
obtained from the leaves of coca, 
capable of producing local insensibil- 
ity to pain when applied to the surface 
of mucous membranes or injected 
under the skin. 

Co'ma. A deep stupor from which it 
is difficult or impossible to arouse a 
person. 

Com'press. A pad or bandage applied 
directly to an injury. 



Con-ges'tion. Abnormal collection of 
blood in a part or in an organ. 

Con'junc-ti'va. A thin layer of mucous 
membrane which lines the eyelids and 
covers the front of the eyeball, thus 
joining the latter to the lids. 

Con-ta'gion. The process by which a 
specific disease is communicated from 
one person to another, either by con- 
tact or by means of -an intermediate 
agent. Also the specific germ, or 
virus, which causes a communicable 
disease. 

Con'trac-til'i-ty. The property of a 
muscle which enables it to draw its 
extremities closer together. 

Con'vo-lu'tions. Tortuous foldings, as 
those of the external surface of the 
brain. 

Co-or'di-na'tion. The manner in which 
different organs of the body are made 
to work together. 

Cor'ne-a. The transparent hornlike 
substance which covers a part of the 
front of the eyeball. 

Cor'pus-cle. A small body or particle. 

Crys'tal-line lens. One of the refrac- 
tive media of the eye ; a double-con- 
vex body situated in the front part 
of the eyeball. 

Cu'ti-cle. Scarfskin; the epidermis. 

Cu'tis. The true skin, also called the 
dermis. 

De-gen'er-a f tion. A morbid process in 
the structure of an organ by which 
its tissues are converted into some 
inert substance. 

Deg'lu-ti'tion. The act of swallow- 
ing. 



GLOSSARY OF TECHNICAL TERMS 



2 55 



Den'tine. The hard substance which 
forms the greater part of the tooth; 
ivory. 

De-o'dor-ant. A substance which re- 
moves or conceals offensive odors. 

Dis'in-fect'ants. Agents used to de- 
stroy the germs of disease, fermenta- 
tion, and putrefaction. 

Dis'lo-ca'tion. An injury to a joint in 
which the bones are displaced or 
forced out of their sockets. 

Dis-sec'tion. The cutting up of an 
animal to learn its structure. 

Du'o-de'num. The first division of the 
small intestines, about twelve fingers' 
breadth long. 

Dys-pep'si-a. The name given to cer- 
tain diseases of the digestive organs. 

El'e-ment. One of the simplest parts 
of which anything consists. 

E-lim'i-na'tion. The act of expelling 
waste matters. Signifies literally "to 
throw out of doors." 

E-met'ic. An agent which causes vom- 
iting. 

E-mul'sion. A preparation consisting 
of a liquid, usually water, containing 
an insoluble substance, as fat, in sus- 
pension. 

E-nam'el. Dense material covering the 
crown of a tooth. 

Ep'i-dem'ic. A disease which affects 
large numbers, or which spreads over 
a wide area. 

Ep'i-glot'tis. A leaf-shaped lid which 
covers the top of the larynx during 
the act of swallowing. 

Ep'i-lep'sy. A nervous affection, ac- 
companied by fits and sudden loss of 



consciousness, often preceded by a 

peculiar sensation. 
E'ther. A narcotic poison. Its chief 

use is as an anaesthetic in surgical 

operations. 
Eu-sta'chi-an tube. The tube which 

leads from the throat to the middle 

ear. 
Ex-cre'ta. The refuse matter which is 

passed from the body in any form. 
Ex-cre'tion. The separation from the 

blood of the waste matters of the 

body; also the materials excreted. 

Fau'ces. The part of the mouth which 
opens into the pharynx. 

Fer'ment. Any substance which in con- 
tact with another substance is capable 
of setting up changes (fermentation) 
in the latter, without itself undergo- 
ing much change. 

Fer'men-ta'tion. An effervescent 
change, as by the action of yeast ; in 
a wider sense, the change of organic 
substances into new compounds by 
the action of a ferment. It differs 
in kind according to the nature of 
the ferment. 

Fi'brin. A proteid substance contained 
in the flesh of animals, and also pro- 
duced by the coagulation of blood. 

Fol'li-cle. A little pouch or depres- 
sion, as the hair follicle. 

Fo'men-ta'tion. The application of 
heat and moisture to a part to re- 
lieve pain and reduce inflammation. 

Fu'mi-ga'tion. Disinfection by means 
of a vapor. 

Func'tion. The normal or special ac- 
tion of a part. 



256 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



Gel'a-tin. An albuminoid substance 
which dissolves in hot water and 
forms a jelly on cooling. 

Germ. A portion of matter capable of 
developing into a living organism, 
a microorganism. 

Ger'mi-cide. An agent which destroys 
germs, especially bacteria. 

Gland. An organ consisting of one or 
more follicles and ducts, with numer- 
ous blood vessels interwoven. 

Glot'tis. The space between the vocal 
cords. 

Hem'i-sphere. Half a sphere; the lat- 
eral halves of the cerebrum. 

Hem'or-rhage. Bleeding, or the loss 
of blood. 

He-pat'ic. Pertaining to the liver. 

Hy'dro-gen. An elementary gaseous 
substance, which, in combination with 
oxygen, produces water. 

Hy'dro-pho'bi-a. A disease caused by 
the bite of a rabid dog or other 
animal. 

Im-mune'. Exempt from certain dis- 
eases by inoculation, by previous 
attack, or by nature. 

In-ci'sor. Applied to the four front 
teeth of both jaws, which have sharp, 
cutting edges. 

In'cus. One of the bones of the mid- 
dle ear. 

In'di-an hemp. The common name of 
Cannabis indica, an intoxicating drug 
known as " hasheesh " and by other 
names in Eastern countries. 

In-fec'tion. The communication of dis- 
ease from one body to another, or 



from one part to another part of the 
same individual (auto-infection). The 
material conveying the disease; the 
disease-producing agent. 

In-f e'ri-or ve'na ca'va. The vein carry- 
ing blood from the lower part of the 
body into the heart. 

In'flam-ma'tion. Tissue changes ac- 
companied with redness or swelling 
of any part of the body, with heat 
and pain. 

In-oc'u-la'tion. The introduction of the 
germs of disease, generally through 
the skin, so as to produce the disease. 

I'ris. The thin muscular ring which 
lies between the cornea and crystal- 
line lens, giving the eye its special 
color. 

Lab'y-rinth. The internal ear, so 
named from its many windings. 

Lach'ry-mal ap'pa-ra'tus. The organs 
for forming and carrying away the 
tears. 

Lens. A piece of transparent glass or 
other substance so shaped as either 
to converge or disperse the rays of 
light. 

Lig'a-ture. A thread of some material 
used in tying arteries or other parts. 

Lobe. A round, projecting part of an 
organ, as of the liver, lungs, or brain. 

Lockjaw, see " Tetanus." 

Lymph. The watery fluid in the lym- 
phatic vessels. 

Mal'le-us. The mallet; one of the 
small bones of the middle ear. 

Me-dul'la ob-lon-ga'ta. The " oblong 
marrow," also called the spinal bulb: 



GLOSSARY OF TECHNICAL TERMS 



257 



that portion of the brain which lies 
upon a portion of the occipital bone. 

Mem-bra' na tym'pa-ni. Literally, 
"the drum membrane"; the mem- 
brane separating the outer from the 
middle ear. 

Mi'crobe. A living organism of very 
small size, a microorganism, 
either animal or vegetable. 

More-cole. The smallest portion of a 
substance which can retain the prop- 
erties of the substance. 

Mu'cous mem'brane. The thin layer 
of tissue which covers those internal 
cavities or passages which communi- 
cate with the external air. 

Ma' cos. The thin glairy fluid secreted 
by mucous membranes. 

Nar-cot'ic. A substance that produces 
stupor, convulsions, and sometimes 
death. 

Nic'o-tine. A poisonous substance 
found in the leaves of the tobacco 
plant. 

Nu-cle'o-lus. A small body often found 
within the nucleus of a cell. 

Nu'cle-us. An essential part of a typ- 
ical cell, often spherical and usually 
found near the center. 

CE-soph'a-gus. The tube leading from 
the throat to the stomach ; the gullet. 

Ox-i-da'tkm. The union of oxygen 
with other substances, as in combus- 
tion. The essential part of burning 
and of breathing. 

Pal'ate. The roof of the mouth, form- 
ing the hard palate, and the curtain 



at the back of the mouth, called the 
soft palate. 

Pal pi-ta'tion. A violent and irregular 
beating of the heart. 

Pa-pil'la. The small elevations found 
on the skin and mucous membranes. 

Pa-ral'y-sis. Loss of function, espe- 
cially of motion or feeling. 

Par a-site. A plant or animal living 
upon or within another organism, 
called the host. 

Pel' vis. The bony cavity at the lower 
part of the trunk. 

Pep'sin. A ferment found in the gas- 
tric juice, and capable of digesting 
proteids in the presence of an acid. 

Per'i-os'te-um. A delicate membrane 
which invests and nourishes the 
bones. 

Per'i-tO-ne'um. The investing mem- 
brane of the stomach, intestines, and 
other abdominal organs. 

Pha-lan'ges. The bones of the fingers 
and toes. 

Phar'ynx. The cavity behind the 
mouth and the nose, leading to the 
gullet. 

Pin'na. The external cartilaginous flap 
of the ear. 

Plas'ma. The fluid part of the blood 
and the lymph. 

Pleu'ra. A membrane covering the 
lung and lining the chest 

Plex'us. A network of vessels, nerves, 
or fibers. 

Poi'son. A substance that, when in- 
troduced into the body, either de- 
stroys Me or impairs seriously the 
function of one or more of its 
organs. 



258 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



Por'tal vein. The venous trunk formed 
by the veins coming from the stom- 
ach and the intestines. It carries the 
blood to the liver. 

Proc'ess. Any projection from a sur- 
face ; also, a method of performance, 
a procedure. 

Pro'te-ids. A general term for the al- 
buminous constituents of the body. 

Pro'to-plasm. The viscid material con- 
stituting the essential substance of 
living cells upon which all the vital 
functions of the body depend. 

Pto'ma-ine. One of a class of sub- 
stances, formed during the decompo- 
sition of proteids. See " Toxin." 

Pu'pil. The central, round opening 
in the iris, through which light passes 
into the interior of the eye. 

Pus. A yellowish-white, creamy liquid 
produced by suppuration. 

Py-ae'mi-a. A form of blood poisoning 
produced by the absorption into the 
blood of morbid matters usually 
originating in a wound or local in- 
flammation. 

Py-lo'rus. The opening of the stomach 
at the beginning of the small intestine. 

Re'flex. Involuntary movements or se- 
cretion produced by an excitation 
traveling along a sensory nerve to a 
center, where it is turned back or 
reflected along motor or secretory 
nerves. 

Res'pi-ra'tion. The act of breathing 
in and breathing out air. 

Ret'i-na. The innermost of the three 
coats of the eyeball. 

Roent'gen rays. See " X-rays." 



Scle-rot'ic. The tough, fibrous outer 
coat of the eyeball. 

Se-ba'ceous. Resembling fat ; said 
of the oily secretion by which the 
skin is kept flexible and soft. 

Se-cre'tion. The process of separat- 
ing from the blood some essential, 
important fluid, which fluid is also 
called a secretion. 

Sem'i-cir'cu-lar ca-nals'. Canals in 
the internal ear. 

Sep'ti-cae'mi-a. Blood poisoning; a 
form of poisoning resulting from the 
presence in the blood of the products 
of putrefactive microorganisms. 

Se'rutn. The clear, watery fluid which 
separates from the clot of the blood. 

Spu'tum, pi. spu'ta. Matter which is 
coughed up from the air passages. 

Sta'pes. One of the small bones of 
the middle ear. 

Stim'u-lant. An agent which causes 
an increase of activity in the body 
or in any of its parts without increas- 
ing its supply of energy. 

Styp'tics. Substances that, applied 
locally, arrest bleeding. 

Sub-cla'vi-an vein. A great vein, so 
called because it is situated under- 
neath the clavicle, or collar bone. 

Su-pe'ri-or ve'na ca'va. The great 
vein of the upper part 6f the body. 

Syn-o'vi-a. The fluid secreted by the 
synovial membranes, which lubricates 
the jomts; joint oil. It resembles 
the v nite of a raw egg. 

Tem'po-ral. Pertaining to the temples. 
Tet'a-nus. A disease marked ' per- 
sistent contractions of all or so. e of 



GLOSSARY OF TECHNICAL TERMS 



259 



the voluntary muscles ; those of the 
jaw are sometimes solely affected ; it 
is then termed lockjaw. 

Tis'sue. Any substance or texture in 
the body formed of various elements, 
such as cells, fibers, blood vessels, 
etc., interwoven with each other. 

To-bac'co. A narcotic plant used for 
smoking and chewing, and in snuff. 

Tox'in. A poison formed by bacteria 
in both living tissues and dead sub- 
stances ; a poisonous ptomaine. 

Tu'ber-cle. A pimple, swelling, or tu- 
mor ; the specific lesion produced by 
the tubercle bacillus. 

Tu-ber'cu-lo'sis. An infectious disease 
due to the bacillus tuberculosis. The 
form of this disease with marked pul- 
monary symptoms is popularly known 
as constimption. 

Tym'pa-num. The cavity of the mid- 
dle ear, resembling a" drum in being 
closed by two membranes. 

U'vu-la. The small pendulous body 
at the middle of the soft palate. 

Vac'cine vi'rus. The virus used in 
performing vaccination ; now usually 
derived directly from the cow. 

Var'i-cose. Distended or enlarged, as 
a vein. 



Vas'cu-lar. Pertaining to or possess- 
ing blood or lymph vessels. 

Ve'nae ca'vae. A name given to the 
two great veins which meet at the 
right auricle of the heart. 

Ven'ti-la'tion. The process of repla- 
cing the foul or vitiated air in any 
room or confined space with air that 
is pure. 

Ver'mi-form. Worm-shaped. 

ViTli. Minute threadlike projections 
upon the internal surface of the 
small intestine. 

Vi'rus. The poison of an infectious 
disease, especially one found in the 
secretions or tissues of an individual 
or animal suffering from an infectious 
disease. 

Vit're-ous. Having the appearance of 
glass ; applied to the humor occupy- 
ing the largest part of the cavity of 
the eyeball. 

Vo'cal cords. Two elastic bands or 
transverse folds of the larynx. 

X-rays, or Roent'gen rays. The 
peculiar ether rays or waves dis- 
covered by Roentgen in 1895. These 
rays penetrate substances like wood, 
the bodily tissues, and many other 
substances ; extensively used in the 
diagnosis of surgical cases. 



INDEX 



Absorption of food 98 

by the blood vessels ... 98 

by the lacteals 98 

Accidents and emergencies . . 228 

first aid in . . 228 

Air passages 134 

sacs 135 

Air, two gases in 139 

changes in, from breathing . 141 

how kept pure 142 

how nature provides pure . 143 
impure, how poisonous . . 145 
how germs of disease are car- 
ried about in 145 

how made unwholesome . . 146 

Alcohol, a poison 75 

contrasted with water ... 76 

appetite for 77 

habit 78 

as a flavoring for food . . 78 
as a hindrance to digestion . 108 
effect of, upon stomach . . 109 
effect of, upon circulation . 128 
effect of, upon heart . . . 129 
effect of, upon air passages . 149 
effect of, in cold weather . 172 
effect of, in hot weather . . 173 
effect of, upon nervous sys- 
tem . 188-191 

effect of, upon special senses 211 

effect of, upon eyesight . . 212 



PAGES 

Ankle 22 

Aorta and its great branches . 120 

Apple juice, sweet 74 

Auricles of heart 119 

Backbone 16 

Bacteria 215 

work done by 216 

as causes of disease . . . 216 

and dust 218 

Baths, hints on taking . . . . 160 
Beer drinking, dangers of . . 82-84 

Bile 96 

Bleeding, accidental 233 

arterial 234 

Blood, appearance of . . . . 1 1 1 

clotting of 113 

circulation of 114 

circulation of, discovery of . 115 

vessels 116 

circulation of, in lungs . . 120 

journey of the 124 

Blood corpuscles 1 1 1 

use of 112 

white 113 

Bodies, our, how kept warm . . 165 

production of heat in our . 166 

regulation of heat in our . 1 68 

Body, how compared to an engine 3 

how unlike an engine ... 4 

framework of 9 



261 



262 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



Bones 9~ 2 9 

use of 9 

number of 9 

composition of 10 

shape of 14 

how joined 24 

how put out of place ... 25 

how tied to each other . . 26 

unnatural growth of ... 26 

care of the 28 

effect of tobacco on ... 29 

broken 235 

Boots and shoes, poorly fitting . 27 

Brain 177 

weight of 178 

need of exercise for . . . 184 

Bread, kinds of 69 

Breathe, how we 137 

Breathing 131 

deep 50 

hints on 51 

Bronchial tubes 135 

Bruises and cuts 232 

Burns and scalds 232 



Capillaries 116, 

Carbon dioxide, how it may poi- 
son us 

Cereals and fruit 

Cerebellum 

Cerebrum 

Chloral 

Cider, evils of drinking .... 

Cigarettes 

Circulation of blood 

discovery of 

effect of exercise upon . . 

effect of pressure upon . . 

effect of alcohol upon . . . 



117 

142 
69 
'77 
177 
194 

79 
191 



127 
128 

128 



Clothing, need of 170 

how modified by climate . . 170 

need of change of . . . . 171 

for children 171 

hints about 172 

Coffee 71 

Collarbone 18 

Colorblindness 210 

Convulsions 229 

Cooking, object of 106 

Cornea 207 

Corpuscles, blood 1 1 1 

blood, red 112 

blood, white 113 

Crystalline lens 207 

Diaphragm, work done by . . . 138 

Diet of famous men 101 

Digestion 87-110 

organs of 87 

good, how secured .... 101 

how hindered 104 

Disease, safeguards against spread 

of 220 

Disinfectants 221 

Disinfection 221 

Distillation 85 

Distilled liquors 84 

Drinks, fermented, origin and na- 
ture of 74-86 

Drowning, apparent, treatment for 236 

Dust and bacteria 218 

Ear, outer 201 

middle 202 

inner 203 

care of 203, 204 

foreign bodies in .... 229 

Epiglottis 92, 134 



INDEX 



263 



Exercise, physical 43-60 

importance of 43 

first step toward 43 

kinds of, needed 47 

at home 48 

in schools 49 

best time for 54 

hints on 58 

Exercisers, health 50 

useful, kinds of 52 

Expiration 131, 138 

Eye 205 

Eyeball 207 

Eyebrows 208 

Eyelids 208 

Eyes, care of 211 

foreign bodies in .... 230 

Eyesight, hints on 210 

Fainting 223 

Far sight 209 

Fats 66 

Fermentation, law of 78 

in bread making 84 

Fits 229 

Five gateways of knowledge . . 196 

Fomentations 224 

Food and drink 61-73 

why we need 61 

why body must have ... 63 

eating too much 105 

Foods, four classes of .... 63 

peculiar effect of .... 104 

Foot 22 

Frostbite 223 

Fruits 70 

Gall bladder 96 

Germs 214 



PAGES 

Germs, protection against . . . 218 

Gullet 91 

Hair 161 

why it should be kept clean . 161 

color of 161 

Hand 20 

Hands, chapped 224 

Harvey, William 115 

Head, bones of 14 

Health, care of 6 

of people, how protected . . 219 

Hearing 201 

Heart 117 

as a muscle 36 

division of, into rooms . . 119 

work done by 1 23 

as a wonderful machine . . 125 

Heat, bodily 165 

how produced 166 

how regulated 168 

Heat, effect of climate upon . . 160 

effect of alcohol upon . . . 172 

Hip bones 18 

Ice water 72 

Insects, sting of 223 

Inspiration 131, 138 

Intestine, small 96 

Iris 207 

Isolation 220 

Joints 24 

kinds of 24 

Kneepan 21 

Legs, bones of 20 

Liver 96, 97 



264 



HOW TO KEEP WELL 



Lungs 133 

location of 132 

appearance of 133 

what takes place in . . 122, 140 

Lymph 100 

Lymphatics 99 

Malt liquors 81 

how made 81 

Meats 71 

Microscope, story told by ... 4 

revelation of 214 

Milk and eggs 70 

Mineral foods 66 

Mouth 88 

Muscle, appearance of .... 31 

contraction of 34 

Muscles 3 I- 42 

size and shape of .... 32 

action of 33,34 

effect of alcohol upon . . 39, 40 
effect of tobacco on ... 41 

Nails 162 

care of . 162 

Narcotics 188 

Near sight 209 

Nerves, spinal 179 

cranial 179 

sympathetic 180 

Nervous system 176-195 

divisions of 176 

Nose, foreign bodies in .... 229 



Nosebleed 



223 



Nursing infectious and contagious 

diseases 227 

Oil glands IS 6 

Opium I93 

Optic nerve 205 



Pancreatic juice 96 

Pepsin 94 

Poisoning, accidental .... 238 

safeguards against .... 239 

what to do in 239 

Positions, improper, in school- 
room 54 

Poultices . . . .- 225 

mustard 225 

Pressure, how to apply .... 234 

Proteids 64 

Pulse 126 

where and how found . . . 126 

Pupil 207 

Reflex action 182 

importance of 183 

Respiration, artificial . . . 236, 237 

Retina 205 

Ribs 17 

Saliva 89 

work done by 89 

Salivary glands 89 

Salt 67,68 

Scarfskin 152 

how we get rid of . . . . 153 

Shoulder blade 19 

Sick room, care of 226 

helps for ...:... 226 

Sight 204 

Skeleton 14 

Skin 151-164 

true 152 

absorption of poisons by . . 157 

Sleep 185, 186 

hints about 187 

Smell 199, 200 



INDEX 



265 



Spinal cord 178 

nerves 179 

Spine 16, 17 

Starches and sugars ...'.. 65 

Stomach 93 

openings of 93 

what takes place in .... 94 

Suffocation , 231 

Sunstroke 231 

Sweat 154 

glands 154 

glands, work done by . . . 155 
glands, how affected by 

weather 156 

Swimming 160 

Sympathetic system 179 

work done by 180 

Taste . 198 

how modified 199 

Tea ~ . . . 71 

Tears . . 208 

Teeth 88 

care of 107 

hints about care of . . . . 107 

Tendons 37 

use of 38 

Thoracic duct 99 



PAGES 

Throat, foreign bodies in ... 229 

Tobacco, effect of, on bones . . 29 

effect of, on air passages . 149 

effect of, on skin .... 163 

effect of, on heart . . . . 129 
effect of, on nervous system 

191, 192 

effect of, on special senses . 211 

Toes, wonderful things done by . 23 

Toothache 224 

Touch 197 

wonders of 197 

Trunk 16 

Vaccination 220 

discovery of 1 58 

Vegetable foods, value of ... 102 

Ventilation 147 

of bedrooms 148 

Vocal cords 134 

Waste matters, outlets for . . . IJI 

Water as a food 68 

Wine 80 

drinking in foreign countries 80 

Yeast 74, 214 

plant 75 




University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 
Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 

Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



