
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



JIYPt ftESEARCn uen« n 



3433 01731759 9 




HORACE COX, 

uiUBSII*' O&WWK BBEAirS »mLDWOft» KA 




Vtiom Co* 



The Most Delicious Sauce in the World. 




Yorkshire 




Tb« populnrlty of thi* lKinou» «auc« r^«ult« k« 
much from it* rieh* pung«nt flavour and |fi« 
2«st it givett to «ueh ihlngv a* cbop», ateaka^ 

^utl«tB, kidney B, fiah^ and ths like, a« frpm tne 
numberieaB u«*a to wKieh it can b0 put in 
<!C>okery. Don^t lake Subatitut««. 
SoU rropfinton: 

OOODALL, BACKHOUSE. & CO., Lteds. 






m'/ 



d by Google 



d by Google 



THE " QUEEN » COOKERY BOOKS. 



d by Google 



LIST OF PREVIOUS PARTS. 



:So. 1. Soups. 

,, 2. ICBS. 

n 3. Pickles and Pbesebyes. 

,, 4. Entrees. 

„ 5. Meat and Game. 

„ 6. Sweets (Part 1). 

„ 7. „ (Part 2). 

,, 8. Breakfast and Lunch Dishes. 

,, 9. Salads, Sandwiches, and Savouries. 

„ 10. Yeqetables. 

„ 11. Cakes and Biscuits. 

„ 12. Fish (Part 1). 

„ 13. „ (Part 2) (Cold Fish) 



d by Google 



THE "QUEEN" COOKERY BOOKS. 



No. 14. 

HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 



COLLKCTED AND DESCRIBED BT 



S. BEATY-POWNALL, 

Departmental Editor " Housewife and Cuisioe," (^ueen Newapftper» 
and Author of " A Book of Sauces." 



LONDON: 

HORACE COX, 

'QUEEN" OFFICE, WINDSOR HOUSE, 

BEEAM'S BUILDINGS, E.G. 



19(H. 



d by Google 



THT^ Ni:\V YORK 



AdvertisemPMts. 



ASTOB, LBNeX AND 
HLDEN FOl 
B 19 



o|o 



35?454bBENSON'S 



^TODNS and PORKS 



IMPERIAL PLATE. 




LAST A 
LIFETIME 

AND 
WEAR LIKE 

SILVER. 



Cabinets and Canteens of Plate for the Household at Makers* 
Cash Prices, or on ** f!J^lj9 f&ime^ ** system of Monthly Pay. 
ments, without extra charge. See Catalogue OratU, 



d by Google 



4 
> 



V, PREFACE. 

Ov 



I 



y Ltttlk, if any, origiiuditj is ckumed for the 
^ following redpesy most of which haTe i^peaied in 
the Cookery columns of the Queen during the 
last eight or nine years, from whence they hare 
been collected at the request of many readers of 
the Queen, to sare reference to back numbers not 
^always within reach. Additional recipes hare, how- 
<^ ever, been giren, to bring this little work as much 
<::^ up to date as possible ; but all these, like the 
I previous ones, hare been carefully tested, and are 
^ all (as I know from practical experience) weU within 
I the capacity of any ordinary " good plain cook,'* 
A^ gifted with &ir intelligence and a little goodwill. 
J^ I desire also to take this opportunity of acknow- 
ledging my indebtedness to the various authors of 
standard foreign cookeiy books, and also to offer 
my grateful thanks to Mrs. A. B. Marshall, and 
several other well-known chefs, whose kindness 
has so materially helped and rendered possible my 
work in these last years. 

S. Bkatt-Powkall. 
January, 1904. 



d by Google 



Advertisements. 



JWILS2NS 

SUCCESSORS. LTP 

For a Centmy at 159, BOND STREET, and now at 
BEGENT STREET, earned a great reputation for 

ARTISTIC DAMASKS, 

From Designs by Walter Crane, Lewis Day, ATiTiiwy Bell. 

Fine IRISH SHEETING; 

ExceUent HOUSE LINENS 

and BLANKETS; 
TASTEFUL CURTAINS; 

Daintiest of HANDKERCHIEFS. 

QUALITY AND DESIGN ARE UNAPPROACHED. 

PBICES WOXnERFULLT MODERATE. 

ILLUSTRATED CATALOQUE FREE. 

Or a -visit, if only of inspection, -will b« esteemed. 




d by Google 



OONTEN'TS. 



CHAPTEB L ""Afli 

Setting np Honae 1 

CHAPTEB n. 
Serrants — Eogagement, Duties, &o. ... 18 

CHAPTEB III. 
The Store Boom, Larder, Ac 33 

CHAPTEB IV. 
The Linen Cupboard 46 

CHAPTEB V. 
Parlour and House Maids' Work 55 

CHAPTEB VI. 
The Offices 80 

CHAPTEB VII. 
Various Beoipes, Ac 90 



d by Google 



AdverHiemenii, 



vi#N^Kj^'^ '^V'^'^ By Appolntitient to the 
■^ fe^^^ ^.«^ KINO and the Prince of 



^r 




^■^ 




*^^PM ^ Wales* 

Vplmaa 



s 



D. S. F. 



MUSTARD. 

Sec thit Colmii't aaoie U dd the TIa. 

,, CORN FLOUR. 



fi Self-Rising 
I- Flour. 

-y;^ For er««dp Pantry, Cakcip Paddligt, 



*^^i*r***^ '^' CANNOW STRfiCT, LONDON. 

^ uid C ARROW V^URKS. NORWICH. 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

CHAPTEK I. 
SETTING UP HOUSE. 

It is wonderful on first "setting up house," as it is 
called, how much more diflScult one finds the process 
than it appeared when surveyed impersonally from the 
outside. That food had to be provided, servants super- 
intended (and frequently taught from the beginning — 
though this does not dawn on one till one is within the 
toils), and the general machinery of the household kept 
going in steady, methodical fashion, one knew, of course ; 
such things are necessities, and, as such, carried out 
almost automatically by whoever is in chai^ge ; and 
though in our youthful wisdom we may decide that the 
process as carried out by our elders is capable of improve- 
ment by the application of modern methods and ways of 
thought, the idea that a certain apprenticeship will 
have to be served before the domestic machinery works 
as smoothly in our hands as even under the guidance 
of the despised seniors, is about the last thing that 
strikes us. When, however, we take up the reins our- 
selves in sad earnest — well, we probably arrive at a 
closer sympathy with the sensations of Phaeton as he 
began to realise what driving his father Apollo's team 
meant, than we ever expected the tale or the yotmg 
demi-god's folly would evoke! "A fellow feeling makes 

B 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



2 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

one wondrous kind/' quoth the old saw, and, if one's 
domestic attclage laoks the romance attaching to the 
fiery steeds of the sun, we are not long in discovering 
that for worry and distress, not to say danger, there 
is mighty little to choose between them ! 

Questions arise for which we neither know nor can 
discover the answer: and the bland oflBcial who stands 
before us, professedly "to take our orders," is not in 
the least lively to help us to a solution of our diffi- 
culties. Moreover, as a matter of fairness, how is she 
competent to do so, being in her way fullv as untrained 
as ourselves? It may be added that, if by any chance 
her knowledge and experience are greater, it is 
extremely doubtful if our position is thereby improved. 
There are exceptions to every rule, we grant, but, as 
a general rule (and allowing a percentage for such excep- 
tions), fully-trained and trustworthy servants seldom, 
if ever, care to take service in a young household. They 
know (no one better !) that in such a case the Herrschaft 
is far too ignorant and inexperienced to appreciate 
properly the trained one's perfect service. If things 
go straight and all works well, it naturally proves how 
correct was younc madam's idea that housekeeping was 
no intricate proolem, but mere child's play to the 
trained mind brought up on the higher education ; and 
the efficient domestic gets neither kudos nor even intelli- 
gent appreciation ; so off she flits, to become the joy and 
treasure of some "more discriminating housewife. For 
be it said in passing, trained, good, and trustworthy 
servants are by no means extinct, only the demand 
exceeds the supply; there are not enough to go round, 
and so the servants can pick and choose, and naturally 
do choose situations where their services are reckoned at 
their just value, and fairly recompensed. The efficient 
one having departed, young madam's fun ( ? ) begins. 
Say it is the cook who has left. Unpunctuality replaces 
the former clockwork regularity, ana monsieur begins to 
wax wrathful over delayed brefitkfast, late dinner, Ac, 
a further sting being added to his feelings by the fact 
that, when the belated food does turn up, it is either 
raw or a cinder, or, if it escapes these extremes, is 
unappetising from careless or imperfect cookery. More- 
over, the same argument applies to every other servant, 
whatever their class. In larger houses, where men are 
kept, monsieur is pretty sure in the long run to hear 
rumours of war and strife below stairs, and as he, like 



ci by Google 



SETTING UP HOUSE. 3 

his better half, is blissfully unconscious that house- 
keeping is not necessarily bom with every woman, but 
is an art to be acquired he is first puzzled^ then worried, 
and, lastly, cross. Believe it who will, it is neverthe- 
less a solemn fact that more domestic happiness is 
wrecked yearly over housekeeping than over any other 
rock, be it what it may, in life's ocean. 

Before setting up house, it is as well to set down 
one's expenses. There are certain averages conoeming 
these expenses, did one but know it, though it must 
be at once admitted that in the present dav these ideals 
are impossible to carry out perfectly; stiu, the nearer 
we can arrive at the ideal condition, the more gracious 
will be our estate. To begin with, rent should, roughly 
sp^iking, be covered by a tenth of the actual income. 
Formerly this sum was supposed to clear all expenses 
connected with the house, such as rates, taxes, &c. 
Now, alas! it is barely, if even nearly, sufficient to 
oov^- the payment for the house alone, and a further 
sum, delusively reckoned as a third (rf the net rent (this 
seldom, if ever, is enough in towns), has to be set aside 
for these necessary evils. Servants' wages, again, are 
reckoned at about a twelfth of the net income. Food 
will take quite a third, this, however, including laundry. 
Light and fuel may be reckoned at one-thirtieth of the 
total income. Let us work this out on the basis of an 
income of £1200 a year. 

Rent, at one-tenth £120 

Bates and taxes, one-third of rent 40 

Wages, one-twelfth of income 100 

Food and laundry, one-third of income 400 

Dress, Ac, one-twelfth for each, say 200 

Light and fuel, one-thirtieth 40 

Total £900 

Thus leaving one fourth, i.e., £300, for doctor, wine, 
subscriptions, travelling, &c. This is the ideal dis- 
tribution of the income, but, as said above, it is very 
seldom possible to work it out exactly. Circumstances 
alter cases. For instance, the above is taken on the 
basis of a couple, with four servants, living thoroughly 
comfortably, though not extravagantly; but naturally 
the sums given will have to be manipulated as the family 
grows, and little feet have to be shod, little mouths filled, 
and schooling has to be considered. Still, with intelli- 
gent good-wm, the above estimate allows a fair margin 
for extras, and, if the income affords no prospect of 
B 2 



Digitized 



by Google 



4 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

increase as time goes on, such extras must be taken 
into account from the first, and, as far as possible, pro- 
vided for. For instance, the food and laundry allow- 
ance given above would allow a young couple to enter- 
tain in a comfortable, if modest fashion, and demand 
no .very stringent domestic economy, so that, as madam's 
nousewifely experience grew, she would find it quite 
possible to manage on the same sum and yet feed more 
mouths. Of course, the entertaining would have to be 
diminished, and a somewhat stricter supervision exer- 
cised on the various items of the domestic budget. 
Moreover, the matter of wages would have to be looked 
into rather closer. Still, it is bein^ done pretty generally, 
and need involve no very appalling amount of trouble 
on the housekeeper, who must, however, be prepared to 
take up the position of practical head of the household 
in the house, and not to depute her duties to any 
servants, however skilful and confidential. 

As in everything else, perfection is no more attain- 
able in the house than outside it, and it is frankly 
admitted from the first that the above are counsels of 
perfection; still, the nearer the housewife can fit her 
means to these figures the more comfortable will her 
life be, and the more restful and satisfactory the home 
over which she presides. 

The one subject of more perennial interest to the 
housekeeper than another is, presumably, that of the 
household allowances. Who does not know the despair- 
ing cry : " What should my weekly books amount to P 
What is a fair consumption of such and such stores for 
a week, a month, <fec. ?" Unfortunately, though easy 
enough to ask, such queries are by no means easy to 
answer. Circumstances alter cases, and tastes and 
habits vary, not only with every family, but, indeed, 
with every individual unit of that family, and each 
variation, however slight, affects the total. The best 
one can do is to give a rough average, compiled by 
collating the best authorities, at the same time warning 
the inquirer that such averages must admit of a certain 
elasticity; for hard and fast rules can only be ensured 
in very large establishments and institutions, where 
the inmates must be taken, so to speak, in the lump, 
and they fitted to circumstances — not circumstances bent 
to suit their idiosyncrasies, as should be the case in 
small families. 

Now, to take the average comfortable family in a 



d by Google 



SETTING trp HOUSE. 5 

good position, the scale of living runs somewhat on 
these lines. Upstairs : Breakfast, tea or coffee, or both, 
bread, hot rolls, one or two hot dishes, and one, at 
least, cold on the sideboard; lunch (where there are 
children), the kitchen joint, Tegetables, and padding, 
with cheese, butter, and perhaps a cake or some cheap 
fruit ; five ddock tea, tea, hot cakes or toa«t, sandwidies, 
bread and butter, cake, and little fancy cakes ; dinner^ 
soup or fish, or both, one or two entrees, poultry, joint, or 
game, a salad or some vegetable entremet, a sweet or 
a savoury, or both. For this scale the downstair meals 
would be bread and butter, tea or oocoa, and either 
bacon (fried or cold), eggs, dried or fresh fish, or 
sausages, for breakfast ; a joint and pudding, or fish and 
meat, or soup and meat, with, at least, one vegetable, 
for dinner ; tea^ bread and butter or jam, drippmg cake 
or toast, or, in summer, some green fooa, such as 
mustard and cress, watercress, Ac., for tea; and for 
supper f bread and butter, cheese, or jam, cocoa, and 
any little dainty left orer from upstairs ; this is if there 
are women only ; if there are men, cold meat, or some- 
thing of that sort, will have to be provided for the 
last meal. (It may be observed that in some households 
a plain bread and butter, jam. and watercress breakfast 
is provided, the '' relish'' otherwise given being trans- 
ferred to the last meal, supper. But thi« depends on 
individual ti^tes. and often on the cook.) Besides these 
four regular meals, servants are very fond of introducing 
a fifth, at 11 or 11.30 a.m. Now, where the breakfast 
is early, say, at 7.30, and where the meal leads neither 
to undue waste of time nor of food materii^, the mistress 
is wise who passes this arrangement over unnoticed. 
As long B» the sum>lies last out fairly well, and it is not 
a recognised, sit-down meal like breakfast or dinner, 
well and good. It is well to allow good servants some 
law in the management of their own affairs; it takes 
off the machine-made monotony of existence below 
stairs, which is one of the great complaints brought by 
servants against domestic service, and truly, in not a 
few houses, the complaint is a fairly just one. Another 
complaint is the lack of personal freedom. Life is, by 
some mistresses, mapped out to the uttermost minute, 
so that there is no encouragement to a clever servant 
to get through her work ; for, as soon as one task is 
done, another rises before her, with a vista of peaks 
behind like a panorama of the Alps, so that she gets nope- 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



6 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

less and just grinds along, getting through the minimum 
in the slackest way, and losing all spring and energy. 
If mistresses would but realise that they have made a 
compact with their servants for so much work of a 
certain kind, and not a bargain that gives them a claim 
on every scrap of the woman's time (even after the 
thorough fulfilment of the prescribed work), they would 
oe far better and more cheerfully served. This, how- 
ever, is by the way. To return to the food question. 
The style of living given overleaf may be comfortably 
managed on sums varying from 12s. 6d. to 21s. a head 
weekly upstairs, according to sex, and from 8s. to 14s. 
a head downstairs, weekly. A careful, clever manager 
will do it on the lesser sum, a less oareful one on the 
larger one; and there will very likely be but little 
apparent difference between the style of living in the 
respective households, though a close inspection may 
reveal the fact that somewhat more attention is bestowed 
on the housekeeping by the mistress expending the 
lesser sum, and that dishes are possibly fitted-in more 
carefully than in the other case. But practically the 
balance of comfort will be about the same, perhaps even 
inclining a trifle in favour of the lady who does her own 
housekeeping and takes a pride in the daintiness of 
her minage. 

The ordinary food allowances run pretty much as 
follows: Tea, coffee, or cocoa, 4oz. a head weekly. It 
must be remembered that this, however, supposes that 
ingredients of really good quality (not necessarily 
extravagant price) are given; cheap stuff will neither 
be as pleasant to the consumer, nor as thrifty; cheap 
tea, cocoa, <fec., will not go nearly as far, and is in these 
days rather a disgrace, wnen for good quality, especially 
if bought in bulk (the best way of buying tea), tne cost 
is relatively so small. Cocoa is best bought in tins 
(air-tight) containing suflScient for a week's consumption. 
If bought in bulk coffee should be in the berry 
(unroasted) ; it is but little trouble to roast, and grina 
as wanted. If, however, it is bought reaay in small 
quantities it should be, like the cocoa, kept in air- 
tight canisters, containing at the utmost a week's con- 
sumption, for stale coffee is, beyond all things, flat and 
unprofitable. It is, in great measure, to its freshness 
than the superiority of coffee abroad is due, for, as far 
as the actual quality goes, there is really little to choose. 

Butter, ilb. a head weekly, with ilb. to lib. extra for 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



SETTING UP HOUSE. 7 

co<>kiDg purposes, is, especially where the family is 
fairly large, a gocfd working average, though, if butter- 
soaked scones, or toast, are allowed for tea, either 
upstairs or down, or butter is used for basting or frying, 
these facts will have to be taken into consideration ; the 
samo remark applies to occasions when entertaining on 
a large scale is going on, for one cannot make the ricnest 
8£uces, such as supreme, &c., without butter, and that 
of first-rate quality, moreover. Still, a good deal may 
be done, as Jeanie Deans observed, by "timing ain's 
turns," i.e., if you have to be extravagant, or, rather, 
extra liberal in one way, balance this by economy in 
some other direction, so as, at all events, to keep the 
average fairly equal. Now, it must be understood that 
all these allowances are reckoned for a household where 
the mistress takes an intelligent interest in her house- 
keeping, and will neither permit nor afford extravagance 
or waste. It must be plainly stated that economy is 
impossible in an establishment where the mistress aoes 
not look into things herself, with knowledge and atten- 
tion ; unless, of course, her housekeeping is on so large 
a scale as to be practically a business concern, and, as 
such, run on business lines. This is the case in some 
large households, and a very clever upper middle-class 
housekeeper once roundly asserted that she "never got 
such a good cook as she did by engaging a kitchenmaid ^ 
from a certain ducal household." Her explanation was ' 
that the housekeeper (professional, of course), being 
responsible for the due average of the expenses, took very 
good care that all under her charge should know exactly 
what the allowances were, and keep within them ! With 
a clear head and a firm hand of this kind at the head of 
affairs, it is wonderful how well the domestic machine 
will work. 

Of Sugar, the allowance runs from ilb. to lib. a head 
weekly, and this (the latter especially) is comfortably 
ample for everything. Of course, this includes loaf, 
caster, and Demerara sugar, but does not, as a rule, 
include icing sugar. 

Bread is a very difficult thing to apportion, as tastes 
differ so much, some people almost living on it, whilst 
others again hardly touch it. The old rule was Id. a 
day a head, and for actual bread this works out satis- 
factorily, though some housekeepers prefer to reckon it 
at lib. a day a nead for women and 21b. for men. 

For MUk, one-third of a pint has long been the usual 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



8 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

allowance, though, as a matter of fact^ a quart a week 
a head for adults is generally found sufhoient. But here 
again varying habits must be taken into consideration. 
This quantity of milk was reckoned in the days when 
beer, or its equivalent, was invariably given, and adults 
only drank milk with their tea or coffee. Nowadays in 
many houses where "No beer or beer money" is the rule, 
a larger proportion of milk is permitted; at the same 
time, the fact that milk (especially new or unskimmed 
milk) is a food far more than a drink should be borne 
in mind, both in the kitchen and the nursery. Far 
more childish ailments than mothers wot of are due to 
children, past the milk diet stage, being allowed to 
drink pure milk freely as an accompaniment to a 
generous diet of meat, vegetables, and puddings, with 
the natural consequence — ^upset digestions. Where 
however, children are, from age or ill-health, dependent 
on a milk diet, a quart of pure milk a day a head is 
no extravagant average. An unstinted supply of pure, 
wholesome milk is the secret of health in later years, 
but it must be given as what it is, the staple fooa, not 
as an extra to an already generous diet. In the country 
skimmed or buttermilk is an excellent beverage for 
children past the milk food a^, and, indeed, for adults 
also. Remember also that, if "glasses of milk," very 
milky puddings, or cafe au laitf &c., are the rule 
upstairs, these must be allowed for extra in the milk 
bill ; also the fact that the dining-room sets the fashion 
for the servants' hall, which must all be taken into 
consideration. 

Bacauy if the principal addition allowed at breakfast, 
should be calculated at lib. a head weekly. The 
average slice is generally reckoned at from loz. to lioz. 
So the lib. a head is a fair allowance. Sausages, again, 
run six to the lib., and even for a man ilb. for break- 
fast is generally more than ample, and few women would 
take as much. Of course, the bacon need not be always 
fried or broiled. Needless, presumably, to add that in 
these, as in all allowances, a hard and fast line should 
not be drawn ; you cannot, and need not, measure the 
slices of bacon or count the sausages, but one must have 
some sort of guide by which to reckon up the needful 
quantities ana to check the expenditure. 

Meat. — For this, the allowance of from \\h. to fib. a 
head daily sounds rather a small one, but it will be 
found at the week's end, in a well-kept house (of not 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



SETTING UP HOUSE. 9 

less than four or five persons), where the family consists 
of women and ohildren only, quite sufficient for comfort ; 
whilst with men the larger amount will be equally ample. 
This, however, must depend a good deal on the style 
of living. If for dietetic or other reasons only fresh- 
cooked meat is allowed, your butcher's bill will be appre- 
ciably larger than when rechauffes and little dishes are 
liked ; moreover, please remember that, in the average 
household, if fresh meat is de rigueur upstairs, it will 
also be a sine qua non below. Another factor to be 
taken into consideration is poultry, game^ &c., in its 
season, and these must always be taken mto account 
when reckoning up the butcher's bill. Small birds, 
game, &c., which contain a larger proportion of bone 
than flesh, and fish (which also must be reckoned for) 
are, weight for weight, below butcher's meat in nutri- 
tive value, though large, solid birds, such as turkeys, 
&o., will, after drawing, rank with tne same weight of 
beef or mutton. 

A good plan, where it is necessary to keep one's house- 
keepmg as much as possible within fixed limits, is to 
parcel out the butcher's book according to the amount 
of meat you wish to have for the week, balancing the 
more expensive joints by others, equal in quahty if 
properly treated, but lower in price, though cut from 
the same animal. Sav, for instance, you are two in 
family and four in the kitchen; this by the lower 
estimate, would mean 3ilb. a heed weekly, or 211b. for 
the entire household (of course, at the higher estimate, 
you must allow 5ilb. a head, or a total of Slilb., or say, 
roughly. 321b. weekly, but the principle would be the 
same). On Monday order a leg of mutton, weighing, 
say, 81b., and a good piece of the "leg of mutton piece/' 
or the round, of beef, as you please, from 61b. to 71b. in 
weight, which is allowed to hang, and can be cut from 
as required; whilst, towards the middle or end of the 
week, yoo would probably order a shoulder of mutton 
of olb., and 21b. of fillet of veal. Hie piece of beef will 
supply a good beefsteak pudding, some beef olives, and 
a good pis for Sunday. Next week yoo might have a 
whole neck of mutton, 61b. in weight (using the cutlets 
for dinn^ and making the rest, with the cutlet trim- 
mings, into haricot or Irish stew), a loin or a boiled leg, 
of pork, of 71b., with 61b. or 71b. of sirloin, and a fowl 
or some birds, to make up the allowance oi meat. These 
amuigements, of course, presuppose nicely-made hashes, 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



10 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

meat au gratiriy curries, and such like, and, granted 
these, wili be found ample. Naturally, however, where 
£>uah smaller dishes are not permissible, even with women 
only, you must reckon on requirmg tne larger average. 
Where re-cooked meat is forbidden, and plain roast, 
boiled, or broiled meat is insisted on, it is best not 
to get too large joints, as cold meat becomes a weariness. 
1 (K> not for one minute mean that these items are to 
be religiously followed out, week after week, but they 
are simply intended to explain the parcelling out of your 
butcher's book, with due regard to economy. If you 
have a large proportion of men, especially if there are 
menservants, and a eood deal of coming and going in 
the house, you may lay your account to an average of 
lib. a head a day; but remember, in all these cases, 
there should be a fair amount of dripping, and where 
economy is necessary, the use of this must be insisted 
on. (I ma^ have a few words to say later on the subject 
of perquisites, of which dripping is a chief one.) It 
cannot be too firmly impressed on your cook's mind that 
there is no better frying material, for fish especially, 
than good, clarified dripping; indeed, so eminent a chef 
as M. Jules Gouffe directs that even the fat skimmed 
off the surface of stock, when in process of making, 
should always be set aside for use. as being, with drip- 
ping, one of the best forms of friture; and what so 
eminent a chef lays down as a rule for such aristocratic 
cuisines as he presided over, is surely worth attending 
to in ordinary life. Dripping is also useful for household 
pastry, cakes, &o., and is, when home-made and well 
clarified, infinitely to be preferred to the "cooking 
butter" and lard (in other words, rendered-down pigs' 
fat), so dear to the self-styled "high-class" cook. If 
any taste betrays its origin, the blame lies witli_ the 
cook's ignorance or carelessness. I have dilated on 
this subject, as the butcher's bill is usually the great 
crux in housekeeping^ but a word or two must be added 
on the vexed question of foreign meat. It may be 
admitted at once that nothing comes up to prime home 
(and carefully) fed beef and mutton, but, unfortunately, 
this is daily growing rarer and more expensive, for tne 
supply is not actually equal to the demand, conse- 
quently, one must look round to supply the deficiency. 
Many housewives, and most servants, have a rooted anti- 
pathy to foreign meat of any kind. This is chiefly the 
result of ignorance, and of the feeling, instinctive in so 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



SETTING UP HOUSE. 11 

many oi us, that "cheap" neoeesarily implies "nasty." 
"Foreign meat is cheaper than the home-grown, ergo 
it is inferior," is their argument. But tney fail to 
remember that cattle and sheep abroad, which can 
be fed <»i admirable pasture (chieHy in the open, owing 
to the difPerence of climate), and require only a small 
proportion, of the care and expense necessarily involved 
in these days in the breeding of cattle, <&;c., at home, 
are therefore, to start with, infinitely cheaper than our 
own ; moreover, such animals are nowadays fully as care- 
fully bred, the best strains being lavishly imported; 
whilst the science and study bestowed on the methods 
of transport allow of the meat being brought to our 
doors with practically little deterioration. In most 
cases, when the animals do not come over alive, the cold- 
storage principle is applied — a very different method 
from the original system of freezing, used when meat 
was first imported years ago. One point that illus- 
trates rather luridly the importance of tlie foreign meat 
trade is provided by statistics published some little 
time since. An exact return was given of the foreign 
meat imported, and of the actual nome-bred beef and 
mutton supplied to the wholesale markets, together with 
a return of the total amount of both, overtly, sold retail. 
Unfortunately, on collating these figures, it was evident 
that the quantity of meat openly sold in retail estab- 
lishments as foreign was wonderfully below the amount 
known to have been imported wholesale, whilst the 
quantities of the retail home-grown were largely in excess 
of any amount sent to the wholesale market. I leave the 
natural inference to the intelligence of my readers. 

Vegetables, again, are not easy to apportion. The con- 
sumption of potatoes varies as much as the demand for 
bread in a household, and is therefore impossible to 
give exactly. Roughly speaking, however, Sllb. a head 
weekly is a fair working average, remembering that this 
implies good-sized ones, which run about three to the 
pound. But, as said before, this can never be reckoned 
on closely, for one person will eat (fairly and without 
waste) quite twice as much as another. It will, however, 
be found, in the long run, that this is balanced either 
by a corresponding decrease in other things, or by the 
lesser consumption of other members of the household. 
With regard to other vegetables, it is difficult to give 
definite advioe. We all know tnat the Britisher con- 
sumes a large amount of butcher's meat when he or she 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



12 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

gets a chance — far more, in fact, than his or her health 
requires — and would be much healthier were the pro- 
portion of vegetables eaten enlarged at the expense of 
beef and mutton; but, though you may get housewives 
to acknowledge this fact, and though the dining-room 
may be supplied with green vegetables nightly, most 
ladies consider potatoes amply sufficient for the needs 
of kitchen and nursery. This, of course, is often due to 
the necessity of keeping down the weekly bills — a serious 
matter with most of us — ^but, in truth, the expense is 
not nearly so large as is imagined. Even in towns, about 
a halfpenny a head daily would ^ve a vegetable course 
to children and maids, to the manifest advantage of their 
health and well-being. Of course, this does not imply 
asparagus or green peas at the beginning of 
the season: but, if the greengrocer is made to brine 
round a list of the daily supply of vegetables and 
their prices when he comes for orders, it is easy enough 
to see what green food will come witnin the prescribed 
limits. Whilst, if there is a garden, there should never 
be any lack of such additions to the daily bill of fare, 
as soon as you have made the cook understand that you 
insist on it, and enforce the fact by having the same 
vegetable for the kitchen as for lunch and nursery 
dinner. But I must say, in the course of long experi- 
ence, I have seldom had trouble in this matter. 

Cheese. — ^For this the usual allowance is ilb. a head 
weekly, though where butcher's meat is not allowed for 
supper, this amount is often doubled. 

Soap. — Half a pound weekly for each servant is a 
rough estimate, and covers both working and personal 
use, on condition that it is kept for some time before 
use, for new soap wastes fearfully. It should be bought 
in quantities, and cut up as soon as brought home, beinc 
then stowed away, so that the air can get all round 
to dry it. Moreover, strict orders must be given, and 
as strictly enforced, that the pieces are not left lying in 
pails, tubs, sinks, &c., as this is a patent source of 
waste, and is, moreover, one of the most common causes 
for stoppages in pipes, drains, &c. 

Candles, Light, OU, dhc. — Concerning these, it is diffi- 
cult to give any very definite advice. It may be 
observed, however, that, if of good quality, the ordinary 
bedroom candle (eight to the poimd) burns about four 
and a half hours. Oil is another article best and most 
economically bought in bulk, if you have safe and con- 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



SETTING UP HOUSE. 13 

venient storage for the 40>gallon oask in which it is 
usually sent. This should be stored away from the 
house, the amount needed for daily consumption being 
drawn ofiF and brought into the house in the morning. 
(Never allow any cleaning or filling of lamps to take place, 
save in daylight!) It is easy to measure the consump- 
tion, granted a little trouble, by filling each lamp, and 
then seeing how long it will burn. Of course, the amount 
must be measured before refilling the lamp. 

Wood. — Of this, twenty-eight bundles usually go to 
the shilling, or more if bought by the 100 bundles, and 
a bundle of wood should certainly light two fires, whilst 
I have known a careful housemaid make one do for three. 

Coals. — ^The consumption of these is a vexed question, 
and one, moreover, that it is very difiicult to settle. 
In two houses of tie same size, and burning the same 
number of fires, the consumption in one may be exactly 
double that of the other, and with no apparent dis- 
honesty or waste. It is a question mostly of ranges and 
grates. I know, from personal experience, that in my 
own house a change of range, from an old, badly-planned 
one to a modern and well-designed one, produced a 
difference of exactly half, i.e., the old one burnt over 
Icwt. a day, whilst with the new one, under the same 
regime and the same conditions, the consumption sank to 
exactly half; and, I may add, with much increased com- 
fort, both to the cook and the housekeeper. Two other 
factors in the consumption of coal axe dirty flues and the 
neglect of cinders. Soot is a non-conductor, and dirty, 
i.e., sooty, flues involve much larger fires both for heat- 
ing the oven and the boiler. When diflBculties arise with 
regard to the bath water (a constant source of domestic 
friction), before sending for workmen, or blaming the 
ranee, see for yourself that the damper leaxiing to the 
bath-pipes is open, and that the flues are free from caked 
soot. If, after this, the water still refuses to heat, then 
(but then only) send for the workmen and have the 
range looked to, for in that case the bath-pipes them- 
selves may be choked from some cause, and, if neglected, 
trouble is pretty certain to follow. With regard to the 
cinders mentioned above, please remember, and also 
make your maids understand, that cinders are not the 
same as a.'ihes. Ashes are of use in many ways, such as 
for scouring pots and pans, &c., but they are useless 
in the range or grate. Cinders, on the contrary, are 
admirable both for lighting a fire, in the first instance, 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



14 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

and far producing a clear, steady fire for broiling 
or stewing in the kitchen, and also as fuel in sitting 
and bedrooms. For this reason, a cinder-sifter should 
form part of the working outfit of both cook and house- 
maid. This utensil — a wooden box on rockers, with a 
tight-fitting lid, and a wire riddle or sieve inside — should 
always be at hand when range or grate is cleaned, as 
the contents of the grate are put straight into it, the lid 
fitted on, and then, without dust or trouble, the cinders 
are separated from the ashes, and the former can be 
utilised at once in laying the fire. Where this is acted 
upon, ^owt. will be found ample (for a kitchen-range 
cooking for ten to twelve people, with late dinner) for 
a day's consumption. This I know from personal experi- 
ence with a good cook, who, however, used her cinders, 
and always kept a small fire when there was no cooking 
going on. As an average, one may reckon four large 
(.kitchen) or six ordinary bedroom scuttles to^ the 
hundredweight of coal. Where there is no late dinner 
or hot supper the consumption of coal should be fully 
one-third less. A good, medium-sized, slow-combustion 
stove will in a sittmg-room, in ordinary weather, use a 
scuttle of coals a day, which, at six scuttles to the 
hundredweight, would mean a quarter of a ton a month ; 
but in cold weather this would be doubled This is for 
the whole day ; the bedroom consumption must depend 
on how long fires are required, but may be reckoned on 
the same scale. Old-fashioned or large grates would, of 
course, use more. 

It may, perhaps, be well just to repeat the average 
allowances, shortly: 

Tea, Coffee, or Cocoa : 4oz. a head weekly. 

Sti^ar : ilb. to lib. a head weekly. 

Milk: One-third of a pint daily for adults, from one 
pint to one quart a head for children, exclusive of 
cooking, if millcy puddings or indiscriminate "tumblers 
of milk," &c., are in vogue. 

Butter: ilb. a head weekly, inclusive of cooking in a 
large family ; in a small one allow from ilb. to lib. extra 
weekly. 

Cheese: From ^Ib. to lib. a head weekly, according to 
whether you allow meat suppers or not. 

Bacon : lib. a head weekly (for breakfasts). 

Bread: About lib. 2oz. daily, or 81b. weekly, for 
women, double for men. 

Meat: From Silb. to 5ilb. weekly a head; anything 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



SETTING UP HOUSE. 15 

over 71b. a head weekly generally indicates waste, mis- 
managem^it. or dishonesty. 

Potatoes: From 3ilb. to o^lb. a head weekly. 

Wood : One bundle for two fires. 

Coal: From iowt. to fcwt. daily for kitchen, unless 
for a very large house ; four large or six small scuttles to 
the hundredweight. 

Beer, when given, is reckoned at a gallon a head 
weekly for women, and one quart a day for men a head. 

For groceries it is difficult to decide. An old, and 
very fair, rule was that Id. a day a head should cover 
the bread bill (needless to say, this does not include 
flour for cakes, sauces, &o.), and Is. 6d. a head weekly 
the grocer's bill for tea, sugar, and the ordinary 
groceries, such as rice, semolina, tapioca, cruet sauces, 
barley, spice, &c.. and, in the long run, this works out 
very fairly, but aoes not, of course, cover such extras 
as olives, pate de foie gras, &c. 

For washing the usual allowance is Is. to Is. 6d. a 
week for women, and 2s. to 2s. 6d. weekly a head for 
men. A nurse wearing white clothes would rank as a 
man. If the washing is done at home, the general allow- 
ance a head is, for women, a complete change of under- 
clothing, three collars, two pairs of cufiFs, two caps, two 
aprons, and one print dress weekly. Of course, this 
must be somewhat elastic. For instance, a parlour- 
maid mi^ht need more muslin aprons, collars, cuffs, and 
caps, whilst a cook might be allowed three prints in the 
fortnight. But this is matter for individual arrange- 
ment. 

The allowance for men is the same, with the addition 
of two to three white shirts weekly, and for the footman 
(when worn), a washing suit a week. 

Given the above averages, it is fairly easy to make 
out a list of the weekly requirements, modifying them as 
your experience increases to suit the special tastes of 
your family, for it cannot be too strongly impressed on 
the novice that a hard and fast line is impossible to 
draw up, at all events, by anyone unacquainted with 
the ins and outs of the menage. Circumstances alt^r 
cases, but so long as you can reckon up your weekly bills 
by the above averages, and find the totals keep pretty 
well correct, you may feel things are going on correctly, 
even though you may discover that your bread bill is 
lower and your greengrocer (perhaps) higher than it 
should be. I have been told that, as a rule, housekeep- 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



16 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

ing works out on the following lines : Butcher, one-third ; 
grocer, one-fifth; dairy, one-fifth; baker, one-ninth; 
greengrocer and fishmonger, each, one-fourteenth of the 
total sum allowed for the housekeeping. From experi- 
ence, I can say that this really does come out about 
right, though items vary; for instance, in my case the 
baker and fishmonger usually exchange places. But, of 
course, a very little practice enables one to, so to speak, 
average one's averages. To show how this works out, 
say you have a household of five servants, master and 
mistress, two half-grown sons, and a grown-up daughter, 
with occasional visitors, and an allowance of £7 weekly, 
you would reckon £6 for the weekly food bills, and appor- 
tion thus: Butcher. £2; grocer, £1 4s.; milk, cream, 
eggs. &c., £1 4s. ; baker, cakes, &c., 14s. ; greengrocer, 
93. ; fishmonger, 9s. ; total, £6. This would allow of 
comfort, and no stint, though, of course, as I say, the 
family tastes might change round some of the minor 
expenses, according to whether fish, vegetables, or brecul 
were most favoured. 

Lastly, there is the vexed question of payment ; ready 
money or credit. It may be at once admitted that the 
first is the ideal method ; but one lives in a real and not 
an ideal world, and must, as the immortal Mrs. Gamp 
says, "Take the consequences of the sitivation, my 
dear!" In short, one must arrive at a compromise. 
Of course, the much-quoted French m^nagere is a strictly 
ready-money customer, but her way of life must be taken 
into consideration. If one could manage with an early 
tea and roll meal, the chota hazri of the Anglo-Indian, 
it would be practical enough, but our daily life is 
arranged on dinerent lines, and nothing short of a social 
revolution would render such housekeeping possible. 
Under these circumstances, weekly bool5, strictly 
adhered to, appear to produce the best results all round. 
Money coming in regularly every week is practically 
ready money to the tradesman, and he will do a good 
deal to content such a customer, especially if the latter 
shows herself thoroughly sure of what she wants, and 
determined (even at the cost of a little personal dis- 
comfort) to secure it. A price-list should be obtained 
from the butcher, baker, and laundry, whilst it will be 
found that, for determined customers, fishmongers and 
greengrocers posseGs daily li^ts, which will enable one 
to see which things are most plentiful, and consequently 
cheapest, that day. It is well resolutely to insist that 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



SETTING UP HOUSE. 17 

when a certain weight is ordered it should be adhered to. 
A common trick is either to send a joint largely in excess 
of that ordered, though probably, from excess of bone, 
fat, &c., less tnrifty than a smaller joint; or, with a 
somewhat lighter joint, to send a "makeweight," piece 
of bone, or stock meat, which may (or may not!) come 
in for soup or gravy, but is, all the same, charged at the 
price of the prime cut ordered. Moreover, where the 
housekeeper is not wide awake, even this is ignored, and, 
if complaint is made, the messenger is blamed, who 
promptly exculpates himself on the plea that "it got 
loose from the ticket, and he did not know whose it 
was!" A careful housewife seldom gets makeweights, 
or, if she does, the mistake is not repeated, and is 
amply atoned for; the careless or ignorant one suffers 
from this mistake (?) on all sides, in fish, flesh, or fowl, 
to say nothing of vegetables ! 



d by Google 



CHAPTER II. 
SERVANTS— ENGAGEMENT, DUTIES, &c. 

It is impossible in a manual of this kind to do more 
than give a sketch of the reciprocal duties of employers 
and servants, but, so far as they go, these hints will 
be found trustworthy. To begin with the engagement 
of servants. A mistress cannot be too particular in her 
inquiries as to the antecedents of the person she pro- 
poses taking into her household ; and, unlikely as it may 
seem to her, this particularity will do her no harm in the 
eyes of respecta.ble domestics. No class is quicker in 
summing up the characteristics of the ladies and gentle- 
men they come in contact with, or in appreciating the 
merits of gentle birth and breeding. Strange as it mav 
seem to many mistresses, smart clothes and extra indul- 
gences are by no means such factors in servants' decisions 
as many ladies imagine. They appraise the eagerness to 
get a servant, tel quel, which leads to scanty investiga- 
tions, roseate views of the place in prospect, &c., pretty 
sharply and correctly. A well-known and most respected 
registry office keeper once said to me: "Never show 
yourself too eager to secure a maid, ma'am ; and, above 
all, never be slack in the matter of a personal character. 
Maids at once put that down to your need for a servant, 
and discount everything you say on that account. The 
lady who is most particular, in reason, inquires most 
carefully into the maid's former service, and explains 
most clearly what she wants and intends to have, show- 
ing, at the same time, that a respectable servant is of 
more importance to her than the prompt filling up of 
her vacancy, is pretty sure to get what she wants, and 
not have so long to wait for it, either." I can testify 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



SERVANTS— ENGAGEMENT, kc. 19 

from the experience of over a quarter of a century's 
housekeeping to the wisdom of her words. 

Before starting to look for a servant make out a list 
of the duties you want her to fulfil, and another of the 
habits and customs of your family, the outings, holidays, 
visitors, &c., together with the wages, allowances, 
wearing of caps, &c. Insist on a personal character. 
Written testimonials can never be relied on ; moreover, 
even if a written character is necessary, from the mis- 
tress having gone abroad or from death, there will 
always be some friend or connection of the last mistress 
who will lestifv to the genuineness of the character 
given. It is a hard thing to say, but the addresses and 
individualities of such references should always be 
strictly inquired into. The police can tell weird tales 
of "personal characters" given by smartly-dressed 
women in unexceptionable houses, who have proved to 
be friends of the servant in question masquerading, 
during the real mistress's absence, in the clothes ana 
personality of the latter. I knew of a case where a 
character was offered from a lady of position, living in 
an unexceptionable neighbourhood; everything seemed 
en regie, and my friend knew from mutual acquaintance 
that the lady was all that was claimed for her, and 
actually in town. So she thought nothing of it when, 
in reply to her letter asking for an interview, the lady 
proffered a call, to save time for " the poor girl, in whom 
she was so interested." On the day specified a well- 
turned-out carriage drove up, a well-dressed, well- 
mannered gentlewoman came in, and answered all ques- 
tions in the frankest manner, giving a good (but not too 
good) character, explaining her reasons for parting with 
the girl in question, &c., with the result that the girl 
was engaged. As sne was dismissed summarily, for dis- 
honesty and other grave faults, my friend visited the 
late nustress to tell her her experience. The lady was 
an absolute stranger, and had never even heard of the 
girl 1 Of course, the police were called in, and it proved 

that the soi-disant lady was Lady 's maid, who had 

used her carriage, by the help of her brother-in-law the 
coachman, to secure a place for a friend, whose character 
was too notorious to allow of her getting a reference by 
fair means ! 

Moreover, seeing the house from which the g'rl comes 
(together with the appearance and manners ol the late 
mistress) acts as a valuable ground for forming an 
c 2 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



20 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

opinion of the maid's training, &c., whilst, naturally, 
ladies will give far more information orally than they 
will by letter. By the way^ if it is necessary for any 
reason to write to the late mistress, be careful to make 
out a regular list of questions, each requiring a cate- 
gorical answer, and keep a copy, so that you may see 
exactly which are answered definitely and which are 
shirked* Many ladies are terribly afraid of writing 
characters, having the law of libel before their eves ; so 
it is well to state clearly that a "character" is a 
privileged communicatiorij and no action will lie, unless 
the servant can prove malice or bad faith on the part of 
her late employer. In fact, so careful is the law in this 
matter, that, even should the character be absolutely 
untrue, there can be no action if the employer gave it 
through ignorance, and in perfect good faith. Of 
course, the employer has also the power to refuse a 
character altogether, and cannot by any means be com- 
pelled to give one. Needless to say, this is a power that 
should only be used in the direst need, for it practically 
ruins the servant. It must be remembered also that 
the giving of a false character, no matter for what 
charitable (?) reason, lays the ^iver open to an action 
on the part of the next explover if the servant should rob 
or otherwise injure that employer; whilst any individual 
personating an employer, or using such employer's 
authority without leave, to give a fraudulent character, 
lays him or herself open to a criminal prosecution. 

It cannot be too strictly impressed on ladies that their 
duty is to give a true and exact character, both for 
the sake of the servant and of the prospective mistress. 
Unfortunately, a good many ladies act on the spirit (if 
they do not actually use the words) of caveat emptor! 
and see no great harm in giving an unduly charitable (?) 
view of the outgoing domestic's character as a quiet and 
easy method of getting rid of an undesirable hanger-on. 

If engaged in the ordinary way, the servant may, if 
unsatisfactory, be got rid of either by a month^s notice 
dating from the day on which the notice is given, or by 
payment of a montn's wage (plu>s the sum due since the 
last payment of wages). This dismissal with a month's 
wages does not, however, give the servant any claim for 
board wages. This may seem strange, for, if a month's 
notico be given, the servant gets board as well as wages; 
the legal fact, however, is as stated. 

Illness, and consequent inability to fulfil the requisite 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



SERVANTS— ENGAGEMENT, &c. 21 

work, is not a legal justification for the discharge of a 
servant, unless the illness is of such a kind as to render 
such servant entirely and permanently unfit for duty, or 
is the definite result of the immorality or bad conduct of 
that servant. As Ions as there is a reasonable chance 
of the person being aWe to return and adequately fulfil 
his or her duties, even if the illness renders a holiday 
necessary, the employer is not justified in dischaiging 
such servant. It must, however, be borne in mind that, 
though entitled to wages at the yearly rate during 
absence on account of illness, such servant cannot legally 
claim board wages for the period of such absence ; nor is 
the employer bound to provide either medicine or 
medical attendance for a servant, unless there is a 
special agreement to do so at the time of engage- 
ment. Of course, if the employer requests a doctor to 
attend his servant, or pays the chemist for medicine, 
&o., supplied to such servant at any time, the doctor or 
chemist would be justified in considering the owner 
liable for such expenses. It must be remembered, at the 
same time, that the above rules as to illness in no way 
interfere with the employer's right to give a month's 
warning, or wages, at any time. One more point deserves 
consideration, and this is the liability of employers for 
orders given by their servants to tradesmen. In cases of 
urgency requiring instant attention, such as the burst- 
ing of water pipes, &c., orders for repairs given by 
servants, or, indeed, for that matter by even a stranger, 
would be held to be given by the employer's authority. 
If, a^in, servants have been allowed to give orders for 
repairs, materials, stores, &c., and the employer has 
paid the expenses involved by such orders from time to 
time without remark, the tradespeople are justified in 
assuming the liability of the employer. 

A serious point to be considered is perquisites. Many 
employers appear to consider these a kind of vested 
interest, which may not legally be interfered with. 
This is a mistake. One of the chief of these is the " com- 
mission" many servants consider themselves justified in 
demanding from the tradesmen with whom their 
employers deal. Now, this is neither more nor less than 
bribery and dishonesty. The higher the tradesman's bill 
the higher is the servant's commission, and in conse- 
quence the greater the temptation to overlook care- 
lessness and mistakes on the part of the tradesman, and 
to encourage unnecessary and extravagant consumption 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



22 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

of household material. This should be at once checked 
on discovery by the dismissal of the servant and the 
leaving of the tradesman. Next to "commission" come 
perquisites, and these are far more general than mis- 
tresses are aware of. Cook refuses to use dripping for 
pastry, frying, &c., or bones for soup, aflSrming (utterly 
falsely) that neither substance can be used in a soigni 
kitchen. Where this assertion does not proceed from 
ignorance (as it sometimes, if rarely, does), it is sheer 
dishonesty. The bones and the dripping have a distinct 
marketable value, as the cook well knows, which she 
pockets, whilst her refusal to use the dripping, &c., 
involves the use of more butter, lard, &c., from the 
butterman and stock meat from the butcher, and the 
consequent increase of her percentage on both bills. 
You pay for the meat, &c., so why should you put a 
further sum into the already suflSciently well-lined 
pockets of your domestic tyrant, the cook? But your 
objection to this vicarious generosity must be made 
perfectly clear at the time of engagement, and "No 
perquisites" must be plainly stated from the very first. 
It must be added that the perquisite question affects 
every class of servant, male and female, and, if 
unchecked, leads to most unpleasant and unexpected 
developments. It is, moreover, in process of becoming 
a "vested interest," like tips, and, unless firmly stamped 
out, will become equally obnoxious and in-attackable. 

You should state firmly and decidedly when engaging 
a cook that you allow nothing to be sold, and do not 
permit anythmg, however small, to be given away, with- 
out your express permission. Servants generally have 
rather large views as to the use or uselessness of 
materials, and, knowing no stint, or considering that 
there is no need for it, they give generously of "that 
which is left over" to kinsfolk ana acquaintance, and 
even to the beggar at the door. Now, putting aside this 
vicarious generosity with goods that might be used for 
your own benefit, promiscuous giving in this fashion 
very soon develops into distinct dishonesty, whilst the 
encouragement of beggars at the back door is also an 
encouragement to the " area sneak." Teach your ser- 
vants to refuse utterly this promiscuous giving to 
unknown objects (such giving, practised, unfortunately, 
by all cla<;sos of women, is the direct origin of the p>ainful 
scenes and much cruelty to children, only too often met 
with in our streets). If your servant is kindly, and 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



SERVANTS— ENGAGEMENT, &o. 23 

anxious to relieve want, show her how to utilise scraps 
not needed for the house by making them up into 
savoury soups, puddings, &c., and let her have the plea- 
sure of dispensinc this dole herself to persons whose 
needs are acknowledged; she has taken the trouble to 
make the things, she therefore deserves the pleasure of 
distributing them, and learns to realise that it is not 
stinginess, but justifiable caution, which leads her 
mistress to forbid promiscuous giving. 

Holidays are another point which often leads to fric- 
tion between mistress and maid, and is one that should 
be very definitely settled at the time of engaging. There 
is no absolute rule for this, but the general practice is 
a fortnight's absence in the year, and an afternoon or 
evening weekly, besides the outing for religious service 
on Sunday. This, of course, can be modified, and, in 
fact, must be, by the requirements of the household, 
but in any case, must be settled. 

Lastly^ there is the vexed question of "followers." 
Now, this is a point on which housekeepers entertain 
very different views. Some forbid them altogether; 
others, again, allow female friends, but draw the line 
rigidly at male followers; whilst the third allow the 
occasional appearance of well-known and authentic male 
relations. From considerable experience, the best plan 
seems to mo to say decidedly that you only allow any 
visitors on condition of being told of, and leave asked 
for, their presence, on the strict understanding that 
no male relatives are allowed unless with the knowledge 
and full consent of the girl's relations. It is always 
better to allow these visits openly, as the opinion of their 
fellow servants will go a great way in influencing a girl's 
acquaintance. Whereas, if all followers are indis- 
criminately refused, this is more than likely to lead to 
deception and disreputable secrecy. 

With regard to servants' duties, these can, as with 
every other part of household arrangement, only be 
arrived at by averages, for each household must be in 
details a law unto itself. 

The Housekeeper. — This person is responsible for the 
efficiency of the whole female domestic staff, and per- 
forms all the duties which would be carried out in a 
smaller establishment by the mistress herself. She is 
responsible for the performance of their duties by the 
oaok and her maids, and the housemaids, and the 
laundrymaids, &o. She orders and gives out all the 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



24 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

stores, keeps the accounts, engages and dismisses all the 
under servants, and generally pays the wages. She is 
responsible in every way for the comfort, behaviour, 
work, and holidays of the servants under her ; and sees 
to the proper care and maintenance of the furniture and 
appurtenances of the house in every respect, seeing 
her mistress at stated intervals to show her accounts, 
and also to report on the condition of the house gener- 
ally. She has her own sitting-room, in which all her 
meals^ save dinner, are generally served. In large 
families, where an extensive staff is kept un, and there are 
many visitors, all the household generally dine in hall, the 
housekeeper and he^d manservant, ladies' maids, visiting 
valets and maids, &c., retiring to the housekeeper's room 
for the second course, the cook and senior footman 
replacing the housekeeper and butler after the depar- 
ture of the latter. Remember, the housekeeper's 
authority is strictly confined to the interior of the 
house. She has nothing to do with the cellar, and very 
often it is a question to be settled whether she or the 
butler orders the coals. 

Cook-Housekeeper. — This is a person, who, besides 
attending to her own culinary duties, is responsible for 
a great deal of the duties otherwise belonging to the 
housekeeper. She keeps the accounts, and, if required, 
pays them, bringing the receipts to her niistress; orders 
the stores required in the house, and is responsible for 
tlie efficiency of the store room ; she sees to the cleaning 
of chimneys, windows, and the proper condition of all 
outside premises, save those for which the butler or 
stablemen are responsible. She presides at, and is 
responsible for, the proper serving of the servants' 
meals; she does herself all the more important parts of 
the cooking for the dining-room, directing and super- 
intending the preparation of all the remaining food by 
her kitchen and scullery maids. Where a cook-house- 
keeper is kept, the supervision of the housemaids and 
of the front of the house is either carried out by the 
mistress herself or by her maid-housekeeper, the latter 
being responsible for the proper condition of the sitting 
and bedrooms (save those belonging to the cook and her 
assistants), and the hou.se linen. Of course, th** maid- 
housekc-eper has nothing to do with the butler, the men 
under him, or his prom'ses. 

The Cook. — Of these functionaries there is a large 
variety of types. For jnsti^nce, besides the cook-house- 



d by Google 



SERVANTS— BNGAGBMBNT, &c. 25 

keeper, there are the ^'profeMed cook/' the ''cook/' the 
''plain'' oook, and the ''oook-general/' The jtrofessed 
cook requires a staff of kitchen and scullery maids, and 
Tarious privileges, and is, therefore, only suited to a 
lar^e establishment. The cook simple usually requires 
a kitchenmaid, though she may be contented (if better 
may not be) by the assistance of a 'Hwecnv'^ maid from 
lunch time onwards. The ^* plain cook* generally is 
contented with a charwoman once or twice a week for 
the heavy cleaning, and looks upon a 'Hweeny'' maid 
with great satisfaction. She is entirely responsible for 
the keeping in condition of all her kitcnen offices, 
culinary utensils, and basement generally. The cook- 
general has no assistant, save on very extreme occasions, 
and is expected, besides her cookins and the basement, 
to take the charge of steps, front hall, and the sweeping 
and grate of dining-room. She also cleans knives and 
the gentlemen's boots. 

TJie Kitchenmaid comes next. She is responsible for 
all the cooking the professed cook does not undertake. 
She prepares the servants' meals, also those for the 
nursery and schoolroom, and assists the oook in every 
way, being responsible, where there is no scuUerymaid, 
for the cleaning of all the kitchen offices and utensils. 

The Scullerymald washes and prepares vegetables, 
washes all kitchen floors, Ac, and does all the scrubbing, 
cleaning, and heavy work generally. She usually assists 
the kitchenmaid in cleaning the range, tins, and utensils 
generally. It is well here & warn the mistress of a large 
house that some attention should be paid to the treat- 
ment meted out to these under servants by their com- 
panions, for the upper ones are very apt to be extremely 
inconsiderate, to put it mildly, with regard to the 
juniors. 

Where men are not kept, the Parlourmaid is next in 
importance. To her falls the waiting at table, the 
charge of the table linen, and the condition of the 
cufihion covers, cloths, <&c., used in the sitting-rooms. 
She ban ohargo* of the plate, the table glass, the china 
used at breakfast and five o'clock tea. the lamps, and 
the answering of all bells, save the bedroom ones. She 
serves and arranges the five o'clock tea, and is respon- 
sible for the brpad and butter, and the toast when tused, 
tliough the cook and she often arrange this point to suit 
their mutual convenience*. The parlourmaid valets her 



d by Google 



26 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

master, and is responsible for the brushing of his clothes 
and the mending of his linen ; if single-handed, she has 
the charge of the sitting and smoking rooms, with the 
dusting and care of the dining-room, though frequently 
the grates are done for her by the housemaid, whom in 
her turn she assists in the making of the double beds. In 
large households, where, as is frequently the case nowa- 
days, menservants have been replaced by women, two 
parlourmaids are kept, the duties being divided pretty 
much as they would be between butler and footman. 
In smaller houses very often, besides the housemaid, a 
second one is kept, who is called a house-parlourmaid — 
that is, she does liousework in the morning, belonging to 
the parlourmaid from lunch-time onwards; of course, 
she must be dressed for lunch. By the way, when a 
second parlourmaid or tliis under parlourmaid is kept, 
the latt-er answers and opens the front door, the parlour- 
maid proper acting as butler, and ushering in and 
announcing visitors into the drawing-room. 

The H(msemaid. — Of this class of 8er\*ant in a large 
household there are generally two to four, "the first" 
housemaid being in authority and responsible for the 
others; she does all the lighter dusting and arrange- 
ment of the various rooms, the under maids doing all the 
heavy and dirty parts. Where there are more than two 
housemaids, the junior one does not come into the front 
part of the house at all, her work being confined to the 
housework of the nurseries, servants' room, back stair- 
case, &c. Where there is no housekeeper the head 
housemaid is responsible for the condition and comfort 
of the bedrooms, sitting-rooms, &c., and has entire 
charge of the bed linen, curtains, chintz€^s, &c., doing 
all the mending required with her ass'stants. Where 
only one housemaid is kept she is. roughly speaking, 
responsible for all bedrooms, stairs. &c., and has 
charge of the bed linen. 

The "Tweeny" Maid, sometimes also known as the 
"up and down girl," is a young girl, who divides her 
time between the cook and the housemaid, working with 
the housemaid all the morning, and belonging to the 
cook from lunch time onwards. She does all the stray 
jobs for which no definite i>erson can be found, and also 
waits on the schoolroom and the governess, if there is 
no nurserymaid kept. She would do doorsteps, brasses, 
bpots, and kitchen knives, c^nd very probably will have 



d by Google 



SERVANTS—ENGAGEMENT, &c. 27 

to carry all the coals. This maid is one who requires 
particular attention, as she is very apt to be overworked 
in every direction. 

The Nurse. — Of this servant there are almost as many 
kinds as there are cooks, and it is as well when engaging 
one to find out what her views with regard to assistance 
may be. The superior upper nurse, even if she have only 
one infant in arms, requires a nurserymaid to fetch and 
carry for her, light fires, and wait upon her generally. 
If this functionary is not available, granting that she 
condescends to come, she will require almost the entire 
time of the housemaid, and for this reason, far more 
than the wages she asks, she is unpopular in the ordinary 
household where three to four servants are kept. As 
a general rule, however, a good nurse will do her own 
bedmaking, dusting, and general charge of the nurseries, 
the grates and heavy cleaning being done, and the coaJs 
and meals carried up for her. She would do some 
washing for the baby, and, of course, the necessary 
needlework ; how much of this latter she would be able 
to do would naturally depend a good deal on how she 
brings up the baby, some nurses having an evil habit of 
perpetually nursing the child, which gets it into bad 
ways, and utterly prevents the nurse doing anything 
else. Now, this is not the least necessary for the 
infant's comfort, and a child allowed to amuse itself on 
a soft rug on the floor is quite as happy and healthy, if 
not more so, than the mucn-ooddled baby. Where there 
is only one baby, and that past its teeth-cutting and 
two or three years old, the nurse very often does light 
jobs for her mistress, acting to some degree as her maid. 
One i)oint deserves attention with regard to nurses; 
the mistress should always so arrange it that the single- 
handed nurse should have her dinner downstairs with 
the other servants (unless the children are old enough 
for a regular nursery dinner), as this freshens her up, 
and gives her a much-needed rest. This, of course, is 
independent of taking the child for an hour or so in 
the morning to allow the nurse to get through her house- 
work. It is well when engaging your nurse and your 
housemaid to make arrangements to this effect. 

The Nurscrymaifi waits upon the nurse, fetching and 



carrying for her, lighting fires, doing out nurseries, 
cleaning perambulator, children's boots and shoes, carry- 
ing coals, meals, &o., and helping in every way with the 
elaer children, for where there is quite a young baby, 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



28 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

espeoially if the latter be delicate, the nurse's time will 
have to be considerably devoted to the infant. Occa^ 
sionally in small establishments the nurserymaid is com- 
bined with the housemaid, and consequently does more 
housework and less nursery work, whilst the nurse- 
housemaid is a housemaid who acts as nurserymaid to 
the mistress, the latter undertaking personally the duties 
of a head nurse. 

The Lady's Maid is entirely devoted to her mistress's 
service, and has entire charge of her wardrobe, jewellery, 
&c. She does her mistress's errands if required, packs 
and unpacks for her, and waits on her in every way if 
unwell. In large households she does absolutely no 
housework of any kind, though in smaller ones she will 
dust and keep tidy her own and her mistress's room; 
she expects a bedroom and work-room, or a combination 
of the two, ranks amongst the upper servants, and wears 
neither a print dress nor a cap. Younq Ladies^ Maids 
differ only in degree from the lady's maid proper, under- 
taking to help the housemaid in the bedmakmg and the 
dusting, and keeping their own rooms clean and tidy, 
but doing no grates or heavy work. 

The ZTseful Maid is usually a confidential servant, who 
very often combines with waiting on her mistress some, 
at least, of the duties of a housekeeper. Her work 
differs in almost every house, consequently what is 
required of her should be explained very clearly at the 
time of engagement. First-class hair dressing and dress- 
making is not usually demanded of her. though she 
would make or mend simple things. Amongst the duties 
carried out by this class of servant are the charge of the 
house linen, the arrangement of the flowers in the house, 
the dusting and bedmaking of her mistress's and the 
young: lady's room, and the dusting of the drawing-room ; 
she also occasionally answers the door or brings in tea 
during the parlourmaid's absence, and sometimes helps 
to wait at table. Of course, all these duties are not 
expected from one and the same maid.^ 

The Schoolroom Maid is a combination of housemaid 
and young lady's maid ; in fact, she is usually in training 
for the latter position. She does out the schoolroom, 
waits on the schoolroom party, carries up such meals as 
are taken in the schoolroom, and washes up the tea and 
breakfast things belonging to it. She waits on the 
governess, helps in doing out the children's and gover- 
ness's rooms, mends and looks after the children's things, 



d by Google 



BBEyAKTS—ENGAGElLEliT, &c. 29 

htflpit the cbildren wiili ihetr ioikt, and goe» oat witfa 

The BuUer.--To ibis fttnctioiiary belongs tbo care of 
tbe wine and tbct ]»late. Ho ia reapotwiblo for tbo work, 
bebariour^ and appearanco of tbe men under biin; bo 
€aarre», MiporinUivid* tbo waitiiu^ at tablo, and i» redpoa- 
Mblo for tbo eondition of tbo billiard, dining, and 
tftnoking room», and tboir addenda, also tbo condition of 
tbo carriago ragK, lamps, hrtume», &c,, and, wbero no 
ralct la kopt« be UMiafly wMt« on bia master. Wbere 
only one footman is kejlt tbo butler ia also expected to 
belp iri tbo plate cleaning, to anawer tbe door, and to 
attend to tbo sitting-room fires when tbe footman is out. 
Tbe butler generally expecU to go out evei^ day, eitber 
in tbe morning before luncb, or before dinner in tbe 
afternoon, a« may be most convenient to bis employers. 
He also arranges tbe going out d tbe footmen. The 
butler, even when he docs not arrange tbe flowers, 'i% 
reaponsiblo for tbe condition of tbe flower vases, and 
other table decorations; and in the countr;:^ i^ respon- 
sible for everything connected with tbe shooting lunches, 
flasks, Sui. 

The Footmen simply do the work under the super- 
vision of tbo butler. They attend to the plate cleaning, 
tbe lamps, the dining-room table knives, the glass, ana 
pantry work genenuly; wait, anawer the door, attend 
to tbo sitting-room fires, answer the belb, valet the 
voung gentlemen and the masculine visitors, carry up 
luggage, call cabs, Stc. Of course, where there are two, 
the ui^per footman takes the responsibility, the under 
one doing all the drudgery. In some houses the polish- 
ing of the dining-room and smoking-room furniture and 
floors form part of the footmen's work ; whilst, if no odd 
man is kept, the under footman should clean tho 
windows, boots, and knives, and fill the coal scuttles. 
But these points should be made very clear indeed at 
the time or engagement, or they will certainly lead to 
ructions later on. Where two or more footmen are 
kept, if one is required to go out with the carriage, 
either one is kept for this service, or it is taken by each 
alternately. N.B. — ^Where manservants are kept, no 
women servants should ever be seen in the front of the 
house after breakfast time ; before and during which the 
housemaids are, of course, responsible for the cleaning 
of the rooms. 

A Singk'Handed Manservant is a combination of 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



30 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

butler aiid footman, and usually does a good deal more 
than these two combined, as, in addition to the plate, 
glass, and pantry-work, and lamps, the waiting at table, 
opening doors, attending to sitting-room fires, and 
valeting his master, he very often cleans the knives, 
boots, and (with the assistance of the housemaid) the 
windows, tlie dusting and polishing of the dining-room 
and smoking-room furniture also often falling to his 
share. His outincs, which should be daily, must be 
arranged to suit the ways of the household, the house- 
maid undertaking his duties in his absence. 

Tlw Valet is simply a masculine lady's maid, though 
he often acts as loader for his master when out shooting, 
and helps wait at table at dinner, when he wears evening 
clothes like the butler. 

The Hall Boy is practically a male "tweeny" maid, 
who intends to develop into a footman, and probably a 
butler. He waits at the servants' hall meals, helps in 
and scrubs out the pantry, cleans and trims the lamps 
for the kitchen and other back premises, cleans boots 
and knives, fills coal scuttles, and very often has to 
carry them to their proper place. Like the "tweeny" 
maid, he requires attention, for, being only half-grown, 
the work may easily be unduly severe, and a great deal 
be put on his shoulders, that should be done by other 
people. 

Mistresses should always see for themselves what each 
servant has to do, and should be careful to have the 
work fairly distributed. Another po>int, which helps 
greatly towards the peace and comfort of everyone, is 
attention to the servants' quarters. Of course, where 
possible each servant should have a separate room; 
failing this, see that each has a separate bed, washstand, 
chest of drawers, looking glass, and chair. These items 
are very inexpensive nowadays, and well repay their 
original cost anyway. Servants' rooms should be 
inspected at stated intervals, exactly like any of the 
other bedrooms, and any deficiencies should be noted 
and made good, and any negligence in their upkeep 
should be at once and sharply censured. Comfortable 
beds and plenty of air should be sine qud nons. 

The following is a list of the average wages of the 
present day: Housekeeper, £46-£60 and upwi^s; cook- 
housekeeper, £35-£75; professed cook, £30-£60; good 
plain cook, £25-£35; cook-general, £18-£30; parlour- 
maid (head), £d0-£d5; thorough good parlourmaid 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



SERYANTS— ENGAGEMENT, <fec. 31 

(single-handed), £20-£30; house parlourmaid, £16-£25; 
housemaid (thorough first), £25-£35 ; housemaid (under), 
£15-£20; "tweeny" maid, £12-£18; schoolroom maid, 
£14-£18; kitchenmaid, £14-£30; scullerymaid, £10-£16; 
nurse (superior), £25-£50 ; nurse, £20-£30 ; nurserymaid, 
£14-£20; lady's maid, £25-£60; useful maid, £20-£30; 
young lady's maid, £18-£25 ; butler, £50-£100 ; footman 
(upper), £30-£50 ; footman (under), £20-£30 ; man out of 
livery, £3o-£60 ; valet, £35-£60 ; page or hall boy, £8- 
£16. For temporary servants the following is the 
general rule: Cooks, 12s. 6d. to £1. 10s. weekly; parlour- 
maids, 10s. to £1 weekly; housemaids, 10s. to 15s. 
weekly (in all three cases with beer, food, and washing 
extra). Char and work women, from 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6a. 
a day (with food, beer, and, in most cases, travelling 
expenses extra). Boy for cleaning boots in the morning 
before school, 2s. 6d. to 5s. weekly, with breakfast; 
waiters, 7s. 6d. to 10s. 6d., and waitress, 5s. 6d. 
to 7s. 6d. each time ; caretakers, 10s. to 15s. 6d. weekly, 
with coals and light. Board wages, from 8s. to 14s. 
weekly for women; from 12s. to 16s. weekly for men, 
besides fire and light. 

It is impossible to give more than an approximate idea 
of board wages, as these differ in different parts of the 
country. 

With regard to dresSj there are certain points to be 
considered. Lady's maids wear neither caps nor print 
dresses; whilst aprons are a matter for their own per- 
sonal decision. When in attendance on their mistress 
a black or dark skirt and blouse, and quiet-looking head- 
gear and cloak or jacket are indispensable ; but it must 
be remembered that in large country houses servants 
dress for dinner, just as their masters and mistresses do, 
slipping on a blouse or overall when attending on their 
mistresses. 

House and parlourmaids usually wear tidy print 
dresses, aprons, and caps in the morning; in the after- 
noon plain black dresses, with muslin aprons and caps, 
turned-down linen collars and cuffs. These they are 
supposed to i>rovide for themselves. Where, however, 
mistresses insist on a uniform being worn in the after- 
noon, this must be provided, remaining the mistress's 
property on the servant's departure, as a man's livery 
does. 

A professed or superior cook wears a cap or not, as 
she pleases, but always a print dress and long sleeves. 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



32 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

Of course, in a small house, where the cook takes the 
parlourmaid's work when the latter is out, she must 
dress in the same style as the latter. 

Scullery and kitenenmaids wear print dresses, caps, 
and aprons. 

Upper nurses seldom wear caps, but under nurses 
should do so. In summer nurseSj as a rule, wear white 
or grey print dresses; and in winter, and for outdoor 
wear with the children, plain crey dresses, jackets, and 
bonnets. This, however, should be definitely settled on 
engagement. 

A Dutler or single-handed manservant wears a tail 
coat and dark trousers, with white shirt and collar and 
black bow tie, all day till the evening. For dinner, the 
regulation black dress suit and white tie. 

Footmen wear livery in the daytime, and usually in 
the evening also. This consists of a livery ooat and 
waistcoat, and dark cloth trousers to match. Whilst in 
the morning, for plate cleaning, <fec.. a drill or linen coat 
is generally provided. Livery is always provided, but 
the butler, or out-of-livery servant, provides hia own 
clothes. 

The page or hall boy (when the latter wears livery) 
should wear clothes the colour of the family livery — 
trousers, and short Eton coat fastened down the front 
with small, thickly-set buttons. Like the footman, he 
wears a striped linen jaoket and waistcoat in the mom- 
ine whilst plate cleaning, &c. 

It should be added that the wages given above are 
calculated on the English and London scale, but they 
vary according to locality, being lower in Ireland and 
Scotland, and also in small provincial towns; but it is 
difficult to give any precise average for wages, as these 
vary both according to time and season. 

A point that must be remembered by the mistress of 
a large house is that the scale of servants' precedenoe is 
as sharply defined (if not more so) as is that in the dining- 
room ; and servants are even more tenacious on this 
point than their masters and mistresses; many a good 
and valuable servant has been lost to a household by 
inattention to this point. 



d by Google 



CHAPTER III. 
THE STORE ROOM, LARDER* &c. 

The store room occupies a very important position, in 
country houses especially : it should be cool, airy, and, 
above all, dry. Where the space can be spared, it is 
best to use a fairly large room for this purx>ose^ and 
have it fitted up specially. The first thins should be to 
look the room well over, and have all tne cracks and 
crannies well stopped with plaster of Paris to check the 
entrance of mice and other pests; then have it 
generously fitted up with shelves all round. These are 
best graduated, the larger and lower ones for the heavier 
and bulkier articles, the narrower and lighter ones on 
top. Besides this, there should be a strong, firm table, 
if possible with one or more drawers of generous size, 
and in one corner, if it can be managed, there should 
be a small lock-up cupboard for medical comforts, and 
also for bleaching liquids, and such household requisites 
as may not be ligntlv trusted in servants' hands. In one 
of the drawers of the table should be kept a supply of 
brown and white paper, string, tape, and some adhesive 
labels; in the other two or three spoons of various sorts 
and sues, a sharp knife, a strong pair of scissors, a 
corkscrew, & ^1^ of string, a cheese-cutter, and a soap- 
cutter. These last are practically the same as far as 
make ^oes, but should, naturally, be kept very strictly 
for their separate uses. To make these, take two pieces 
of wood (strong firewood will do), point these at both 
ends, scraping and sand-pai>erins the wood to get it 
perfectlv smooth (these sticks should be of the same 
size and shape as "tipcats"), attach a length of wire 
to each, either througn a hole in the centre, made with 
a red-hot skewer, or by fastening the wire securely 
D 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



34 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

round the middle of each stick. To use this instrument, 
slip the wire round the stuflf to be cut. and, holding 
both handles in one hand, draw it steadily through the 
material till the latter is divided. These may be seen 
in operation' any day in a cheesemonger's, and are in- 
finitely better for cutting cheese or soap than a knife. 
A good set of scales should also form part of the store 
room outfit, together with a slate, with pencil attached, 
and a book slung to the same hook, in which should be 
inscribed the dates of i)urchase and giving out of the 
various stores. If possible, it is well to keep in the 
store room a small tool chest, as there are many little 
things about a house which a handy woman can repair 
(and thus save the expense of a workman) if she has 
the necessary tools at nand. Please, however, see that 
the tools are strictly returned to the storeroom when 
done with, as nothing is, apparently, easier to mislay 
than a hammer, a screwdriver, or a pair of pliers. In 
the emergency or medical cupboard it is well to keep 
a few remedies for instant application ; amongst these 
I should mention a ^Ib. tin of Coleman's mustard, a tin 
of mustard leaves^ a box of old linen and cotton rags, 
a length of new flannel, a roll of bandage, a paper 
or box of safety pins of dift'erent sizes ^ a packet 
of court-plaister. a roll of diaculum plaister, some 
gutta percha tissue or oiled silk, wadding, a tin o£ lin- 
seed meal (see, this is kept airtight), a bottle each of sal 
volatile castor oil, essence of ginger and of hazefine. 
a good bottle pf carron oil (equal parts lime water and 
linseed oil, well shaken togetlicr. and applied with an 
old rag, and changed occasionally, for burns), lime water 
(unslaked lime sEeeped in water, a piece of unslaked 
lime the size of a lan;e walnut being infused in a wine 
bottle of cold water) for bilious sickness, a bath thermo- 
meter if possible a large bottle of Calvert's carbolic. 

' ditto of Condy's^nuid, 3qz. or 4o«. of permanganate of 
potash (with any other disinfectant you please), a large 
.bottle of embrocation (Elliman's or otherwise), a bottle 
of liquorice powder, a bottle of best brandy (to be kept 
strictly for medical use), a bottle of chlorodyne, 
.;a small bottle of ipecacualnha wine, and any 

'other medicines and medical comforts you may find 
suitable for family use, together with a medicine 
measuring-glass and a feeding-cup. By the way, it is 
a good plan, when winter is over, to empty the india- 
rubber hot-wat«r bottles thoroughly, then fill them with 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



THE STORE BOOM, LARDER, Ac. 35 

air by means of a bellows or a bicycle pamp, and store 
them in the storeroom ; this will be found to prolong the 
lives of these aseful articles. 

As said above, a generous allowance of shelves shonld 
be provided, each shelf being kept for its separate and 
special use, so that in a little time yon may be able 
to tell blindfold in which direction to go foe any stores 
required. Hooks should aJso be affixed to the ceiling 
or beams for the string bags, or rather, miniature ham- 
mocks, used for storing lemons, smoked hams, tonsues, 
sides of bacon, herbs, &c., in their brown paper oa^s 
(carefully pricked all over with a fine needle to let in 
the air without admitting the dust), &c. All stores 
should be kept in their own special receptacles, each 
being carefully labelled to show their contents. This is 
especiaUy needed where things requiring air-tight re- 
tainers are used, as it obviates the necessity of opening 
the tin to discover the contents. Formerly, olci- 
fashioned housewives used always to mark or label their 
jams, pickles, &c., on the blaidder or paper covering 
the top, stacking each kind in a separate comer, and 
trusting to their memories to localise the various stores. 
But, with all submission to these worthy ladies, it is 
far more practical to affix labels with the names, dates, 
and other facts desired, at the side of the jar, where 
it can be seen at once, even when stacked. Adhesive 
labels will answer for this in many cases, but as all 
glues will not fix paper on tin, it may be added that a 
glue for tins made with loz. powdered alum dissolved 
in one pint of boiling water, and then boiled with 2oz. 
of gum shellac till the latter is dissolved, will^ clear 
away this difficulty. This glue must be kept tightly 
corked. Either tightly-closing tins or large earthenware 
crocks should be used for cereals, currants, raisins, ^., 
but see that the lids really do fit. and be careful they 
are kept tightly closed, as insects are very destructive, 
to cereals especially. Shallots, garlic, and such like 
strongly-smelling articles should be kept in ti^ht-fitting 
tins, and as far away as possible from anything likely 
to be affected by the odour. Soap, for the same reason, 
should be kept at a respectful distance from provisions. 
All things m common use, such as tea. sugar, Ac. 
should be bought in bulk. Coffee is not much good 
if long roasted, or not freshly ground, so if it is to be 
bought in bulk, buy the unroasted berries and roast and 
grind them yourself. You will be more than repaid 
D 2 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



Ce HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

by the increased aroma and flavour thus obtained. 
Have a shelf for sauces, colourings, essences, and such 
like, and always keep a spare packet of best leaf gela- 
tine, a bag or two of freezing salt, two or three bottles 
of lh]ueur syrups for flavouring, &c., wherewith to re- 
plenish cook's store cupboard, for allowing that lady 
the run of the store room, however trustworthy she 
may be, does not (emphatically) make for economy. A 
spare supply of leathers, Selvyts. rubbers, brushes, &c., 
should also be kept in store. Keep your record of stores 
sharply, always putting the date wnen each kind was go4> 
in (this enables you to keep a check on their use), and, 
above all, be very particular to have stores renewed 
before they really give out. For instance, do not send 
for fresh supplies directly you give out the last speci- 
men to COOK for her cupboard, but send the order 
directly your private store runs low. Cook should re- 
ceive a definite supply of groceries, &c., on a fixed day 
at a fixed time weekly; you should have a fixed time, 
say, monthly or quarterly, for looking through your store 
room and seeing what is required, and send your list 
of necessaries to the tradesman you employ sufficiently 
early to allow of the fresh stores arriving before the last 
supply is entirely exhausted. Whether you get vour 
goods from a local tradesman or from some quasi-whole- 
sale firm is a matter for your own judgment. Very often 
in fairly large county towns tradesmen are glad to supply 
groceries, dS?., in bulk at so little over store prices (a^^er 
adding in the carriage, package, &c.) as to make it worth 
while to employ them, and. personally, where it can be 
done without upsetting one's domestic budget, it always 
seems to me only fair to spend one's money in one's own 
country and among what (by a stretch) may be called 
one's own people. But remember, to ensure success in 
this matter, you must treat the local man as you would 
your stores^ i.e., give clearly made-out lists, and send 
payment with, or on the fumlment of, the order. 

It is fairly easy to reckon up what groceries. &c.. will 
be needed. Of tea, coffee, or cocoa, the weekly allow- 
ance a head is usually 4oz. (the coffee, however, can 
hardly be gauged accurately^ as tastes differ so as to 
its strength ; still, the above is the ordinary housewife's 
average) ; snygar varies from ilb. to lib. a head weekly ; 
the latter average should cover all purposes comfortably 
in a fairly larce family. In a family of nine or ten, 81b. 
of sugar of all kinds, loaf, caster, and Demerara, will 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



¥. 



THE STORE BOOM, LARDER, &c. 37 

cover everything as a rule, though if five o'clock teas 
are rife an extra pound of loaf sugar may be needed 
now and ajgain. But (and this is a sine gud non) this 
quantity implies cane, not foreign, beet-made stuff. 
Where preserves are to be made it is well to reckon 
from 12oz. to 16oz. of sucar to every lib. of fruit. Cane 

•reserving sugar shoula certainly be bought in bulk. 

^or milk puddings for the nursery, such as rice, barley, 
i&c, you reckon loz. of cereal for each pint of milk 
used, though if liked a little stiffer, 1^ oz. to 2oz. may 
be used to the pint, but this average should never be 
overstepped, and in any case the pudding must be 
eooked very slowly. Three hours is none too much to 

five a pudding made with 3oz. to 4oz. of rice, tapioca, 
arley, &c., and three pints of milk. Remember, this 
plan of slow cooking is an economy, as it obviates the 
use of ecgs, which in this case are not needed. Ground 
or powdered cereals require a trifle more milk and less 
time; it niay also be observed that most patent cereal 
foods are improved by somewhat longer cooking than is 
given in the accompanying directions. 

Having settled your own store cupboard, do not forget 
your cook's, which should be replenished weekly or 
monthly, as you prefer (the shorter time is usually the 
best), making her understand that you hold her respon- 
sible for the stores given out, and that you expect them 
to last, under ordinary circumstances, for the time speci- 
fied. For a family. of ten to twelve people, living in 
the usual style with late dinners, savouries, dainty 
cookery. &c., a bottle each of Lazenby's Harvey, and 
Lea and Perrin's Worcester sauce (the large size) will 
last about a fortnight (possibly rather more), a laige 
bottle of Burgess's essence of anchovies will probably 
last a week or ten days longer, an average tin of 
Edmund's Empress curry powder will last about a 
month, on the basis of two dishes of curry a week. 
These figures are naturally only approximate, but they 
are taken from the actual consumption of a family of 
four to five in the kitchen, and six or seven in the 
dining-room, the servants being all women. So this 
may give a certain basis to go on. In towns where 
space is restricted, it is seldom possible to give up a 
room for store purposes, so it is best to make an arrange^ 
ment with some firm to have "a standing order^" as it 
is called, for so much grocery, Ac, to be sent m once 
a week, as this, to a certain extent, allowances the 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



38 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

servants, and keeps more check on expense than can be 
maintained if daily orders of a small amount are per- 
mitted. Some mistresses actually allowance their ser- 
vants, but this I have seldom found successful, and 
know from experience that if, after telling the cook 
plainly what you consider sufficient, this quantity is to 
any noticeable degree overstepped, an explanation 
quietly but firmly demanded has seldom to be repeated ; 
only take trouble to see that your supplies are ample 
in the first place. 

Lastly, to ensure comfort, a corner of the store room 
should be devoted to household stores of various kinds, 
such as writing, blotting, padding, brown, and other 
kinds of paper, spare ink ; a ball each of fine and coarse 
string ; a glue pot and a bottle of either Diamond cement 
or Lepage's invaluable fish glue; and last, but by no 
means least, a small medicine chest, for, where there 
are children especially, one never knows when a ques- 
tion of minutes may not make the difference between 
life and death. 

The items given above are naturally only approxi- 
mate, and must vary in every household but they may 
serve as some sort of guide. A properly stocked and 
managed store room, whatever its size, is always a great 
addition to one's comfort, and in these days of pre- 
served foods, of all sorts and kinds, enables one to bear 
with equanimity, even if not with actual enjoyment, 
the incursion of unforeseen guests, or the domestic mis- 
haps and times of stress that come to all households, 
however well managed. 

A few more hints may help in the preservation of 
stores. For instanc*e, store jams, pickles, chutneeSi <fcc., 
on the lower shelves, for hot air ascends, so the higher 
shelves will be found to promote fermentation. 

Flour may, if the store room be a dry one, be bought 
in large quantities, but see the container is airtight, as 
flour absorbs damp very readily, and then becomes 
musty. If the floor of the store room is stone, stand 
the flour bin on a wooden box, or wooden rests, to keep 
it off the floor. 

All cereals and grains should be stored in tightly- 
covered earthenware jars, duly labelled, but do not buy 
very large quantities, as they are liable to suffer from 
insects. Split peas, the xnselli verdi (or dried green 
Italian peas so useful for purees, soups, &c.); haricot 
and flageolet beans; lentils, both E^ptian (orange 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



THE STORE ROOM, LARDER, &c. 39 

coloured, and popular abroad as "lentilles a la reine") 
and German (a brownish green and not so delicate as 
the Egyptian), and such Tike should not be bought in 
bulk, as they are apt to suffer from weevil. 

AlmondSi spice of all kinds, starch, soda^ coffee, and 
tea should be kept in tightly-closed and airtight tins. 

Sugar is best kept in closely-covered earthenware jars, 
and too large a supply should not be bought, as it also 
is apt to suffer from insects. 

Candles, like soap, should be bought in large quan- 
tities, as they need hardening before use. When white 
wax candles become discoloured they may be improved 
by wiping them with a cloth dipped in spirits of wine. 

Honey, which, to avoid adulteration, should be bought 
in the comb, may be stored for months in an earthen- 
ware jar, covered with a clean cloth under the tightly- 
fitting lid to ensure the perfect exclusion of air. 

Dried fruits should be bought in large quantities only 
in the beginning of winter, when the new fruits come 
in ; say the end of October or beginning of November. 

Figs, dried, should never be bought till after the 
first frosts, pour cause ! 

Lastly, always remember when buying canned goods 
of any kinds to examine them closely, rejecting all 
whose tins are in the least damaged, no matter to how 
small an ext^it, and always buy them at a sufficiently 
large shop to ensure the freshness of the stock, and the 
responsibility of the tradesman. 

Be sure to have the store room aired at regular in- 
tervals, and insist on the most rigid cleanliness, dry- 
ness, and tidiness. Untidiness, moisture, and the 
dropping about of stores are all direct encouragements 
to insect pests of all kinds. The store room is dis- 
tinctly the mistress's province, and it is well, therefore, 
if possible to keep a corner where you can store the 
spare supplies of household linen, spare glass, &c., for 
if more than is actually required for the needs (on a 
liberal scale) of the house is given out, it is wonderful 
how things disappear and get broken ! and it is rather 
annoying to have some friends coming to dinner and 
to be tmd suddenly thflt. "We shall want some more 
tumblers, ma'am!" or "If you please, ma'am, we have 
only enough sherry glasses for yourselves ! " When you 
know for a fact that at the last count over of the 
pantry stores there was a full set of everything for 
twelve, and your daily number is never over six! But 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



40 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

such accidents will occur, so give out what is wanted 
and store the rest for emergencies. After all, the 
pantry is very likely small, and in a confined space acci- 
dents will happen. 

Another part of the house, though perhaps, more 
strictly speaking, belonging to the kitchen, is the 
larder. But, after allj this is the cook's store room, 
so it may be included m this chapter. If anyway pos- 
sible, the larder should have a northerly aspect, to 
ensure coolness, and must be dry^ light, well ventilated, 
and scrupulously clean. The ceiling and walls (if not 
tiled) should be well limewashed at least once a year. 
The shelves should, if possible, be of slate ; failine this, 
they must be well scrubbed weekly, choosing a dry aay for 
the purpose. The windows, if not of perforated zinc gauze 
(which is best) should be opened constantly, sk sheet of 
fine muslin being stretched taut, across the window, to 
keep out flies, &c. If possible, the door should also 
have the upper panels of the perforated zinc, to ensure 
a draught. The hooks for hanging meat, <&c., should 
be arranged on the ceiling in the fine of this draught. 
If possible, the floor should be of stone, but in any case 
there must be a slab of slate for the fish, and one for 
the milk, which must be kept well away from anything 
likely to taint it. In the country, of course, the butter, 
cream, and milk would be kept in the dairy. All this 
will sound a counsel of the veriest perfection to the 
luckless town housewife, whose larder is probably a dark 
cupbocurd. agreeably disposed between the mam drain 
ana the dustnole : still, careful cleanliness and attention 
will do a good deal with even this unpromising hole. 
It is possible in most houses to find a passage leading 
from the kitchen to the area and the back premises, 
which can be utilised. For this affix hooks in tne ceiling 
for meat, game, &c., and insert wire gauze in the upper 
panels of the doors at ends, and you will be astonished 
to find what a satisfactory deputy-larder this midces. 
Only, when you have to contrive in this way to remedy 
a small larder, be generous in the supply of wire fly- 
covers, cane and muslin cagee (procurable for a few pence 
at the nearest ironmonger) for the joints ; hooks, single 
and double ; and last, but not least, a large quantity of 
larder crockery. Meat, when it comes oflF the table, 
should be at once shifted on to a clean "larder" plate 
or dish, and put away in the larder, but never allow 
the dinner service to oe used for this purpose, for this 



d by Google 



THE STORE ROOM, LARDER, &c. 4X 

is a fruitful cause of accidents. Where a dainty cuisine 
is expected, economy is impossible if the most is not 
made of the materials at hand, and the tiniest scraps 
of fish, meat, vegetable, or sauce can be worked up by 
a skilful cook, on condition that they are neatly stored. 
The shelves should be wiped down daily with a damp 
cloth to remove all dust, &c., and thoroughly scrubbed 
or washed down once a week with either carbolic soap 
or a solution of carbolic. Choose a dry dav for this 
work, and lift out everything from the larder before 
beginning to scrub. If possible, always keep butter, 
cream, milk, and eggs away from other food, and be 
extremely careful to place the dairy produce in a clean, 
untainted place, as nothing catches germs, &c., so 
quickly as milk in any shape. 

Having given these directions, it may be convenient 
here to add a few words concerning measures and 
measurements. 



Measure of Capacity. 



1 Minim 1 Drop 

1 Dracbm 1 TeaspooDful 

2 Drachms ... 1 Dessertspoonful 
4 Drachms ... 1 Tablespoouful 

W Minims 1 Drachm 

•S Drachms ... 1 Ounce 
20 Ounces 1 Pint 

4 Gills ^ iPint 

2 Pints 1 Quart 

2 Quarts ...... 1 Pottle 



4 Quarts 1 Gallon 

2 Gallons 1 Peck 

4 Pecks 1 Rushel 

2 Bushels 1 Strike 

3 Kushels 1 Sack 

4 Bushels 1 Coomb 

8 Bushels 1 Quarter 

12 Sacks 1 Chaldron 

5 Quarters ... 1 Wey or Load 
10 Quarters ... 1 Last. 



In the north of England half a pint is often called a 
gill, and the true gill a "noggin.'' 



Avoirdupois Weight. 

16 Drams 1 Ounce 

16 Ounces 1 Pound 

14 Pounds 1 Stone 

28 Pounds 1 Quarter 

112 Pounds 1 Hundredweight 

20 Hundredweights 1 Ton 



Ti-oy Weight, 

4 Grains 1 Carat 

24 Grains 1 Pennyweight 

20 Pennyweights.. 1 Ounce 
12 Ounces^ 1 Pound 



Apothfcariea Wiight. 

20 Grains 1 Scruple 

S Scruples 1 Drachm 

8 Drachms 1 Ounce 

12 Ounces 1 Pound 



d by Google 



42 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

Liquid Imptrial Measure. 

4 GUIs IPint 

2 Pints 1 Quart 

4 Quarts 1 Gallon 

9 Gallons 1 Firkin 

18 Gallons 1 Kilderkin 

36Gallons 1 Burel or "Tierce" 

54 Gallons 1 Hogshead 

72 Gallons 1 Puncheon 

108 Gallons (2 UogMhd<Ml!i; 1 Butt 

216 Gallons (2 Butts) 1 Tun 

1 Gallon of wine 6 " reputed " Quart Bottles 

^ Cask About 13 Dozen "reputed" Quart 

Bottles 
Octave About 6^ Dozen "reputed" Quart 

Bottles 

1 Hogshead of Beer 54 Gallons 

IHogfheadof Brandy 60 Gallons 

1 Hogshead of Wine 43-46 Gallons 

1 Hogshead of Rum 45-50 Galionx 

1 Hogsleadof 8ugar 13-16 Hundredweights 

It is best on all occasions to weigh (and weigh accu- 
rately) the ingredients used for any recipe, for thoueh 
an experienced chef or cook may be able almost by 
instinct to measure correctly by rule of thumb, the 
averajge cook, whether amateur or professional, most 
certainly is not. and failure, or, at best, uncertainty, 
is the inevitable result. . So a pair of scales and a 
graduated liquid measure should be found in every 
kitchen. However, failing these, there are fairly accu- 
rate makeshift weights, much used by cooks, to the con- 
fusion of their employers, who are ignorant of the 
proper equivalents. Here is a pretty accurate list of 
these substitutes: 

One drop equals 1 minim. 

Thirty drops equal one saJtspoonful or i a drachm. 

Sixty drops equal one teaspoonful or 1 drachm. 

Two teaspoonruls equal one dessertspoonful. 

Two dessertspoonfuls equal one tablespoonful, or loz. dry and Joz. 

liquid measure. 
Two tablespoonfuls equal one gravy spoonful or one fluid ounce. 
Four tablespoonfuls equal one port (rlass or half a gill. 
Eight tablespoonfuls equal one gill, two port or three sherry 

glasses, or a " quartern," or one teacupful. 
Two gills or two teacupfuls equal half a pint, or a breakfastcupful. 

or a tumbler. , .... 

Half a pint equals two breakfast cups or twenty fluid ounces. 
Twenty fluid ounces equal one fluid pound, and correspond to the 

16oz. avoirdupois pound. 

These measures, it must be remembered, are for water, 
wine, vinegar, fruit juice, and such like; syrups, oil, 



d by Google 



THE STORE ROOM, LARDER, &c. 43 

and cream weigh a trifle more, and spirits a trifle less 
than water. It is well, if possible, to correct these 
makeshift measures by comparing them with recognised 
standard weights and measures. For instance, a gradu- 
ated minim glass will help yon accurately to the small 
measures np to the gill. 

Again, it must be borne in mind that measures of 
capacity naturally differ according to the density of the 
article weighed. Judgment must, therefore, be used 
in such matters, but tne following will give some idea 
of the yariation: 

A breakfastcopfol of breadcrombs, well pressed down, equals 

about 4oz. 
A breakfastcopfnl of butter, lard, or dripping, pressed down or 

melted, equals 7oz. 
A breakfflstcupfnl of currants or sultanas, heaped, equals 6oz. 
A breakfastcupfnl of flour, arrowroot, cornflour. Ac, level, equals 

4oz. 
A breakfastcupfnl of flour, arrowroot, cornflour. 4c., heaped, equals 

6oz. 
A breakfastcupfnl of raisins, stoned and pressed down, equals 8oz. 
A breakfastcupfnl of rice, heaped, equals 7oz. 
A breakfastcupfnl of sago, semolina, tapioca, tc, heaped, equals 

4oz. 
A breakfastcupfnl of soet-. fineiy minced and heaped, equals 4oz. 
A breakfastcupfnl of sntrar. caster or moist, heaped, equals 8oz. 
A handful of flour is about 3oz. to 4oz. 
Cayenne pepper, a " pinch " of. equals a quarter to half a salt- 

spoonful. 
Pepper, a " dash " of. equals a quarter of a saltspoon. 
Nutmeg, a " grate " of, equals a bare quarter of a saltspoon. 

It is well to remember, when measuring by spoonfuls 
and cupluls, that there is a consid^-able difference be- 
tween a "level" or a "heaping" spoonful; the latter 
contains almost as much above as it does in the bowl 
of the si)oon. To ensure a level spoonful, fill the spoon, 
then, with the back of a clean knife, sweep off its 
contents, whatever they are. level with the edges of the 
spoon. To obtain a level half -spoonful, after this pro- 
cess, slip the knife throu|zh the centre of the sfwon 
lengthwise, removing all the ingredients on one^ side ; 
if you divide the remainder crosswise, you obtain the 
quarter-spoonful. 

The following will give some general averages for ordi- 
nary kitchen ingredients : 

Applet ayerage five or six to the pound; 16lb. make a peck. 
Bean*, broad, go 9lb. to the peck. Kidney beans go lOlb. to the 
peck. 



d by Google 



44 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

Butter " the size of a nut," Joz.; "the size of a walnut," loz.; 

** the size of an egg," 2oz. 56Ib. of butter go to a firkin; 2241b. 

or four firkins, go to a barrel of butter. 
Carrots, old, three or four to the pound; new, fifteen or twenty 

to the pdund. 
Coais, half a sack, or 1121b., equals Icwt.; one sack equals 2cwt.; 

ten sacks equal 1 ton. 
Cok€, one sack equals four bushels; twelve sacks equal a chaldron. 
^W*. eight large, ten small, in the shell, equal lib.; twenty-five 

yolks or twenty whites equal lib. (whites weigh more than 

the yolks, and, also, there is more white in an egpr than yolk). 

Always weigh eggs when the weight is mentioned in the 

recipe. 
Fuh, a box of. equals 901b. Fish is always weighed uncleansed. 

hence the difference in weight when it reaches the kitch%a. 
Flour, 3ilb. equal one quartern, and makes a quartern, or 41b. loaf; 

Tib. equal one gallon; 141b. equal a stone or peck; 561b.. or 

four pecks equal a bushel; l%lb. makes a barrel; and 2801b., 

or five bushels, equal a sack. 
Ooostherries go 16lb. to the peck. 
Hay, old, 561b. to the truss; thirty-six trusses go to the load. In 

new hay 601b. go to the truss, and thirty-six trusses to the load. 
Meat, 81b. to the stone (the legal stone is 14Ib.). 
Onions, six to eight to the pound ; 161b. to the peck. 
}*easi, green, 8lb. go to the peck. 
Plums and other stone fruits go 181b. to the peck. 
Potatoes, four to six go to the pound, if old ; 20lb. go to the peck ; 

561b. to the bushel; 1681b. or three bushels, go to the sack. 
Raisins, 561b. make a box; 1121b. or two boxes, one barrel. 
iSiet'f.— This measure, much used for fruits and nuts, varies locally. 

Strictly speaking, it should mean fourteen dry quarts. 
Straw, 361b. equals one truss, thirty-six trusses one load. 
Wine.— This is sold in '* reputed " pints and quarts, the latter 

being somewhere between one and a half and one and three- 

auarter pints. 4>ut brandy must always contain twenty-six 
uid ounces to the quart bottle. 

In working by foreign recipes some difficulty is often 
experienced in reducing foreign weishts and measures 
to our ordinary standard, so the following list, which 
will be found fairly (or, at least, workably) correct, may 
be useful : 

1 Millilitre 164 Drops or Minims, or | Teaspoonful 

L Centilitre 2 Drachms 49 Minims, or a Dessertspoonful 

1 Decilitre 3 Ounces, 4 Drachms 10 Minims, or a good 

Wineglassful 

1 Litre 13 Pints 

4| Litres 1 English Gallon 

9 Litres l Peck 

36 Tiitres 1 Bushel 

1 Decalitre 10 Litres, or 2i Gallons 

1 Uectolitre 100 Litres, or 22 English Gallons, or 23 

Bushels 

1 Decigramme 1-lOth Gramme, roughly speaking U Grains 

1 Gramme 15) Grains 

1 Decagramme 10 Grammes, or i Ounce 



d by Google 



THE STORE ROOM, LARDER, &c, 45 

1 Hectogramme 100 Grammes, or, roughly speaking, 3J Ounces 

(avoirdupois) 
1 Kilogramme 1000 Grammes, about 10 per cent, more than 

21b. lllb. English go to 5 kilos. 

I Ounce Eng 7 Grammes 

i Ounce Eng 14 Grammt s 

I Ounce Eng 21 Grammes 

1 Ounce 28) Grammes 

2 Ounces 57 Grammes 

3 Ounces 85 Grammes 

4 Ounces 113 Grammes 

8 Ounces 227 Grammes 

12 Ounces 340 Grammes 

16 Ounces, or lib 454 Grammes 

1 Quarter Eng 12 7 Kilos 

1 Cwt 507 Kilos 

1 Ton 1015 Kilos 

These figures are roughly quoted, omitting some tiny 
fractions^ but work out well practically, and are obtained 
by collating the information given in the second edition 
of J. Bellows*s and other dictionaries. 



d by Google 



CHAPTER IV. 
THE LINEN CUPBOARD. 

A GOOD supply of household linen is an indispensable 
adjunct to every well-kept and comfortable house. Con- 
sequently, in starting housekeeping, an effort should be 
inade to ensure a fairly generous quantity at first, as 
if it is fully stocked to begin with, even if only on the 
basis of master, mistress, the domestic stafE employed 
at first, and one spare room, a little management, and 
a relatively small expense yearly, will suffice to keep the 
linen cupboard in working order, without an undue 
strain on the family finances. Now, fir&t as to the 
linen cupboard itself. Of course, if available, a small 
room set apart for this purpose is most satisfactory^ as 
you can then conveniently store away blankets, curtains, 
table covers, chinte cavers, Ac, which, if you follow 
the wise plan of having a different set of curtains, covers, 
Ac, for summer use^ have always to be provided for 
somewhere. If kept in the linen room in this way, they 
are easily reached, and can be overhauled from time to 
time with little trouble. Moreover, a frequent look- 
ing over of this kind in many cases saves destruction 
by moth, &o. 

However, as few people can afford to set apart a 
room for the linen, Ac, the next best substitute is a 
cupboard. This should be as large and roomy as can 
be managed, for linen is alwavs better if each kind is 
kept separately and not huddled together. The cup- 
board should be in an airy, dry, and Tight part, as this 
tends to prevent mildew ; out it should not be against 
an outside wall ; if it can be so contrived that the hot- 
water pipes run through it, so much the better, as this 



d by Google 



THE LINEX CUPBOARD. 47 

will help to air the linen. (Apropos of this, it may be 
mentioned that in a house with a hot and cold water 
supply, a small hot closet can frequently be fitted up 
in the cistern room at a relatively trifling expense, and 
is both economical and conyenient.) failing a satis- 
factory cupboard, the best thing is a linen press^ titted 
with drawers and trays for the various kinds of linen in 
use, and for town houses these are bad to beat. One 
of the nicest is the *' Whyte-Walton linen press, " which 
is most pracrtically fitted up, and can, I believe, be had 
in various sizes. If you have a suitable wall cupboard, 
there is one precaution that amply repays the small 
amount of cost and trouble it involves. This is to fit a 
slender wire rod close under each shelf; make some 
curtains of glazed calico, or, preferably, of thin glazed 
holland, long enough to come down and cover the shelf 
completely, and to fold over its contents, thus preserv- 
ing the linen from dust, &c, : these are then slipped on 
to the rod by means of a caser, and the linen laid on 
the shelf inside this curtain. These curtains, of course, 
must from time to time be washed. 

The great thing in arranging either a linen press or 
cupboard is to have everything close at hand and easy 
to reach; for, to insure fair wear, each article should, 
when brought back from the wash, be placed at the 
bottom of its particular pile, the clean things being 
given out from the top. Uegular wear is the best pre- 
ventive of mildew, whilst linen lasts much better if not 
used continuously. In large households a linen book is 
kept, in which every item is marked down, with its price 
and date of purchase, space being left after each entry 
to record any alteration in number, condition. d«. Be- 
sides this, a list of all the articles actuaUy contained 
in the linen press or cupboard should be written out 
clearly (but without the notes, ^.). and nailed to the 
door of the press for constant reference, the linen and 
this list being checked at special intervals by compari- 
son with the previously mentioned book. Of course, in 
smaller households this arrangement can be modified to 
suit individual requirements, but it cannot be too 
strongly insisted upon, that the more housekeeping, in 
all its branches, is put on a strictly methodical and 
business footing, the better it is for all concerned. It 
may be here observed that in some very large estab- 
lishments the linen belonging to each separate bedroom 
is often kept in a drawer, or small chest, in the room 



d by Google 



48 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

itself, the linen being marked with the name of its 
special destination, and a list being fixed to the chest, 
&c., containing it, as mentioned above for the linen 
press. 

Now, with regard to the quantity of linen required. 
The usual allowances are three pairs of sheets to each 
bed (where economv has to be consiaered, five i)airs 
may be made to do for every two beds of the same size). 
As to the use of sheets, housekeepers entertain different 
opinions ; some make their sheets up into pairs, others, 
again, divide them into upper and under sheets, their 
arrangement being to allow one under sheet for each 
bed, either weekly or fortnightly, and two upper sheets 
for the same period, as they consider this greatly 
lessens the washing bill. Of course, this involves a 
larger number of upper than of under sheets. Another 
practice, where economy is concerned, is to have a clean 
sheet every week, the top sheet of one week becoming 
the under one of the following week : this, however, is 
a question that each housewife must decide for herself. 

Fr(ym three to faur piUowcases for each pillow, and the 
same number of bolster cases, if the latter are used. 

Fr(ym six to nine chamber towels for each member of 
the family. 

Three hath towels for each person. Servants are usuaUy 
allowed from three to four fa^x towelSj and two to three 
hath towels, a head. These numbers allow, in the first 
case, from two to three face towels (one being chanced 
in the course of the week) and one bath towel weeldy ; 
m the second, one face towel weekly and one bath towel 
fortnightly. 

Two toilet covers for each toilet tahle (or three between 
two of a size), if in constant use. 

Two sets of short window screens for each window, 
where these are used. 

One white quilt for each bed, and one or two extra for 
each size, so as to allow for an occasional change for 
each bed. 

Three to four large tahleclothes for dinner, and the same 
number for luncheon and breakfast, is the very smallest 
number available. The number of these, in point of 
fact, must, of course, vary with the amount of enter- 
taining, in which case six or twelve of each kind will be 
none too large. 

Twelve napkins to each iahlecloth is the usual allow- 
ance, and for ordinary purposes is a fair one ; but this. 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



THE LINEN CUPBOARD. 49 

again, depends a great deal on the amount of enter- 
taining. Where economy has to be considered, and a 
large supply of napkins is not possible, sets of napkins 
are a mistake; for if, on an^ occasion, jrou require an 
extra supply, the napkins, if in sets, will not match, 
which never looks well. So by far the best plan is to 
buy one's napkins (whether for lunch or dinner) of a 
convenient medium size, and all of the same pattern 
and quality. 

Twelve dessert d*oyleySy according to necessity. A 
dozen, however, is the least. 

Four to six traycloths; four to six afternoon teacloths. 

Four to six fish napkins, if used. These are no longer 
so general. 

Three to four sideboard cloth s* 

Four kitchen tablecloths ; two or more dishing-up cloths* 

Three roller towels eachy for scullery, pantry, and house- 
maid* s pantry, if there be one. 

Six to nine teacloths for kitchen and pantry, respec- 
tively. 

Six to nine glasscloths for the pantry and the housemaid. 

Six to nine kitchencloths for the pantry, kitchen, and 
housemaid^s closet respectively. 

Six to nine dusters for kitchen, pantry, and housemaid* s 
doset respectively. 

Six to nine coarse kitchencloths , and 

Six knifedoths, for kitchen use. 

One under and two to three upper blankets to each bed. 

One eiderdown, or thick flcumcl quilt, and one coloured 
summer guUt for each bed. The summer quilts are prac- 
tically merely decorative, and, like the pillow and sheet 
shams, so much affected bv many housewives, are re- 
moved when preparing the bed for sleeping at night. 

Fnyrn four to six yards of house flannel should idways 
be kept at hand in the linen cupboard or store room 
for giving out as required, and there should always be 
a supply of dusting sheets for use during cleaning. 
These may be old sheets, past use in their proper capa^ 
city, or they may be made of lengths of unbleached 
calico or holland for the purpose. Another item which 
adds greatly to the cleanliness and appearance of bed- 
rooms is the mattress case. Abroad, where housewives 
are much more particular than they are in this country, 
each mattress has a case, which is slipped over th« sides 
and ends, to protect it from any chance of dust, &c,, in 
bedmaking, which cases are removed and washed at 
E 




50 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

intervals, thus adding greatly to the freshness and clean- 
liness of the beds. These cases may be made either of 
the well-known blue-check cotton, or, preferably, of 
glazed holland. 

The above quantities are, of course, not a hard and 
fast list, but an approximate idea of the amount required 
for comfort ih a nousehold, consisting of master and 
mistress, three servants, and occasional visitors. 

With regard to the weekly allowance of linen, much 
variety of ideas prevails. The usual run is a change of 
sheets weekly (or, as said before, one sheet changed 
every week where economy has to be considered); but 
in large households two to three changes of bed linen 
weekly are not out of the way. 

Pillow cases are changed weekly, or one clean one is 
allowed extra in the middle of the week. Or else the 
top pillows are covered with more or less ornamental 
cases, known as " pillow shams, " which are removed at 
nijght. In some households, also, a strip of linen, the 
width of the sheet and about 1 yard deep, more or less 
decorated, and known as a "sneet sham^" is slipped 
in and turned over the regular sheets and eiderdown, for 
day use, which, of course, protects the real sheets fnwn 
dust, &c,f whilst adding to the appearance of the bed. 
It is a melancholy fact that, where economy must be 
considered, embroidered and frilled sheets and pillow 
slips add both to the linen and the washing bill ; more- 
over, unless one possesses really first-rate servants, or 
has the time to look after things oneself, sets of bed 
linen, trimmed to correspond, are very apt to be mis- 
matched and worn unevenly. 

Face towds are changed weekly, either one thick and 
one thin one, or two thick and one thin one being 
allowed a head, but this again varies, from a bi-weekly 
to a daily change. 

Bath towels are changed from once to twice a week. 

Two nupkins a week is, properly speaking, the mini- 
mum, one for luncheon and breakfast and one for dinner, 
but in many houses two a week each are given, and in 
seme cases they are changed daily. 

Servants^ sheets are usually changed fortnightly, c^r the 
upper sheet of one week becomes the under sneet of 
the next. 

For servants* towels, one face towel a week and one 
bath towel a fortnight is the general allowance. 

Now with regard to the material ; for bed linen, pure 



d by Google 



THE LINEN CUPBOARD. 51 

linen is undoubtedly the nicest, but is, equally certainly, 
the most expensive to start with, so that many house 
mistresses prefer to buy cotton sheets, which, being 
cheaper, they can afford to wear out and throw aside 
(as dusting sheets, &c.), whereas the cost of linen neces- 
sitates a good deal of mending and repairing, which, in 
these days, when servants are by no means clever at, 
or fond of, darning and mending, would in small house- 
holds almost inevitably fall on the mistress. ijinen 
sheets and pillow cases are usually provided for the best 
bedrooms ; cotton sheets for nursery use, with heavier 
or twilled cotton for the servants' beds. But even for 
these in most households, linen pillow cases are pre- 
ferred, both for comfort and durability. It should be 
remembered that for invalids or rheumatic people cotton 
sheets are better than linen, which is apt to strike cold. 
For table linen, nothing comes up to double damask, 
and though the first cost of this is undoubtedly high, 
it is well worth the extra expense, as it both wears 
and washes better than inferior or single damask, neither 
of which keep their beauty in the wash, and, moreover, 
soil much quicker. It may be observed, for the benefit 
(^ the economical, that patterns vary a good deal in 
price, though the actual quality of the damask may be 
the same. Spots and small all-over designs are usually 
less expensive than large central patterns^ whilst, 
naturally, the newer the design, the higher will be the 
price. It is well to remember that twiC3 a year most 
of the large household linen manufacturers sell off their 
old stocks at such a reduction that it is well worth the 
housekeeper's while to look out for these times, as they 
enable her, if not absolutely bent on the very latest 
fads and fancies, to keep up her linen cupboard both 
cheaply and satisfactorily. Remember that, to look 
well, a tablecloth should hang quite 12 inches over the 
sides of the table, and fully 18 inches at the ends ; so 
the cloth should always be a yard longer and fully three- 
quarters of a yard (at least) wider than the dining-table 
it is to cover. (Whilst on the subject of the tablecloth, 
it is well to bear in mind that no table will look well, 
however fine the napery, if the latter is laid directly 
on the table. There should always be a thick under- 
cover of baize, felt, or Canton flannel, even under the 
ordinary table-cover in use when the cloth is not on. 
This makes the linen lie smooth and look thick and 
glossy.) 

B 2 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



52 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

For napkins, as said before, it is always best to adhere 
to one size, pattern, and quality, as then they work in 
well together. Of course, this nint is only for small 
households. Napkins are mostly made in three sizes^ 
22, 27, and 31 inches s(][uare. but the most practical size 
is the middle one, as this does for both lunch and dinner. 
There is in some houses a fancy for the German fashion 
of plain or self-coloured linen cloths, trimmed with lace, 
for lunch, and also for sideboard cloths, and very well 
the plain, creamy, or self-coloured, lace>-trimmed cloths 
look for the sideboard and carving-table; but in most 
houses small doubled tablecloths (perhaps too old to 
spread well) are used for this purpose. As a matter 
of fact, any woman clever with her needle can add to 
the beauty of her linen cupboard at very small money 
cost, by working or making tray, tea, or sideboard 
cloths, with embroidery, Russian and drawn work, lace, 
&c., as she pleases. For kitchen tablecloths, buy the 
strong unbleached linen cloths sold for the purpose. 
With regard to the "cloths," it is well to buy those 
which have their nature woven in the border, such as 
"kitchen," "class, " "tea," &c., and, as you value your 
peace of mind, choose different sorts for each maid, or 
you will always be a victim to the carelessness or laziness 
of the other maid. Thus, have the various cloths sacred 
to the kitchen all red ; say, the parlourmaid's correspond- 
ing articles, blue ; whilst the housemaid has a check all 
over. In this way you can at once hold each responsible 
for her supply ana avoid disturbances, because of one 
having taken the other's cloths unnoticed. How cloths 
and dusters of all kinds disappear, none but the experi- 
enced housekeeper knows, and that much-tried woman 
has even yet not evolved a plan for preventing the 
flisht of such articles, and is still wondering whether it 
is oest to buy cheap cloths, make each maid wash her 
own (sending a proportion each week to the laundry to 
preserve their colour), and pass over their non-appear- 
ance; or to buy better articles, and insist on the return 
of every cloth given out one week before the next supply 
of clean ones is given out. But unless the mistress ner- 
self sees to the making out of the laundry list, and 
personally superintends the giving out of the weekly 
allowance, this latter plan is seldom successful. 

When a nursery has to be provided for, another 
"separate" set of cloths must be given out, or disturb- 
ances will be inevitable. Indeed, it is always best, when 



d by Google 



THE LINEN CUPBOARD. 53 

possible, to set up the nursery entirely, allowing a 
separate outfit of cloths, dusters, crockery, cutlery, pails 
and brushes, as this tends to alleviate in some measure 
the feud that always appears to rage between the nur- 
sery maid and the housemaid. 

One of the troubles that beset a young housewife is 
the question of the cloths to be givein out weekly to the 
various servants. Roughly speaking, for a household of 
eight or ten altogether it will be found that one table- 
cloth, one dishing-up cloth, one roller towel, three or 
four kitchen cloths, two knife cloths, a teacloth, and 
two or three dusters will be sufficient for the cook. 
For the parlourmaid, two teacloths, two glass cloths, 
two or three dusters, one knife cloth, and a roller towel 
will be ample for the same time ; whilst the housemaid 
will need two or three dusters, two kitchen cloths (dif- 
ferent from the cook's), a chamber cloth, a slop cloth, 
one roller towel, a glass cloth, and one or two teacloths. 
In the nursery, one glass cloth, two teacloths, one slop 
cloth, and two dusters will be sufficient. 

Care should be taken in making out the washing book, 
and it should be rigidly kept up, both in sending out 
and when coming home. The washing list should be 
kept in a strongly-bound book, as nothing is more dis- 
concert iog than to find loose leaves, and on no account 
should the receipts be added to the washing-book. A 
small book should be kept separately for these, or the 
bills should be carefully endorsed and added to the 
mistress's^ bill file. It is well to examine the linen 
closely when it comes home from a new laundress for 
several weeks; though, when you and she have settled 
in, this examination need only occur at intervals. The 
reason for this inspection is to ascertain the treatment 
your linen is undergoing. It is easy enough to distin- 
guish bad or careless washing. Starched clothes sent 
home like bricks, argue, at least, an unskilful laundress ; 
streaky or over-blued linen indicates either careless 
washing or an undue amount of blue having been used 
to hide bad work ; white clothes, clammy to the touch 
(though not damp) and with an unpleasant smell, betray 
insufficient rinsing, for unless the soap is well and 
thoroughly rinsed oiit, the linen will always have a 
disagreeable odour. Hard, shrunken flannel or woollen 
goods proves the presence of washing soda in the water 
they were put into, over-hot water, or, lastly, too 
quick drying in front of a fire or in a hot room. Grimy, 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



54 HOUSEHOLD HINT^. 

ill-washed linen should always make one suspect 
"bleachers," which, in the hands of bad or careless 
workers'; spell ruin to the clothes. It is easy to tell 
when lime (the chief foundation of most so-called ex- 
tractors) has been used, as, instead of the thinness 
wearing into a re^lar hole which comes from wear and 
tear, the linen will be found perforated with a riddle 
of tiny pinholes as if a moth had been working at it. 

It IS well to remember that linen begins to want 
attention within a very short time of being taken into 
wear. Buttons and tapes disappear mysteriously, the 
corners come unhemmed, the hem itself gets torn (show- 
ing where a careless washerwoman has pinned, instead 
of pegging, it to the drying rope), frills come unsewn, 
<fec., and, unless attended to at once, will lead to a great 
deal of unnecessary work. In large houses a linen maid 
is kept, whose duty it is to see to these things; in 
smaller houses the housemaids do the mending, or, 
where men servants are not kept, the housemaids do 
the bed linen and the mistress's mending, the parlour- 
maid seeing to her master's mending and the table linen, 
whilst in other families the useful maid, or the mistress, 
sees to the household mending. One more point de- 
serves consideration with regard to linen and that is the 
marking. All linen should be plainly and clearly 
markeC ^^^ wi*'^ house linen, even where embroidered 
monograms, Ac. are used, a corner on the wrong side 
of the hem, or some other inconspicuous place, snould 
be marked plainly with marking ink. In ordinary 
cloths, <fec., the mark is placed in the top left-hand 
corner, as this shows plainly when folded for ironing. 
The scheme of marking is a matter of personal taste, 
but it is as well to have, beside the name or initiids of 
the owner, the date of tne purchase the number of the 
set to which the article belongs, with its own individual 
number ; 4 Smith 12, 1903, would show that the napkin 
thus marked was No. 4 of a dozen bought by Mrs bmith 
in 1903; whilst, if liked, "lunch" or "dinner" placed 
under the name would show that the napkin in question 
belonged to the dinner or lunch set. 



d by Google 



CHAPTEE V. 
PARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS' WORK. 

The parlourmaid's work depends a good deal on the 
household. In some she is practically a feminine butler; 
she has chai^ge of the wine, plate, valets her master, 
end has one or more parlourmaids imder her, for the 
perfection of whose work she is responsible. The only 
difference between her and the butler being that she and 
the maids under her are responsible for the proper 
mending of the table linen and of the master's clothes. 
In such cases the sweeping and dusting of the dining, 
and smoking or billiard room, belong to the parlour- 
maids, the upper one being responsible for the proper 
condition of these rooms and also of the drawinc-room, 
though the actual dusting, sweeping, and grate cleaning 
of this room belong to the housemaid's work. In other 
families the parlourmaid has no one under her, the 
housemaid having her own separate share of work, 
though, on. occasion, such as the parlourmaid's outing, or 
a large dinner party, she would help the parlourmaid 
with the waitingj Aic. 

The parlourmaid also has charge of the plate, glass, 
lamps, and the brasses and mirrors in the various public 
rooms. 

To the housemaid belongs the charge of the bedrooms, 
stairs, hall, bathrooms, &c., together with the grate 
cleaning and the charge of the drawing-room, and 
boudoir, if there be one. Where the parlourmaid is 
single-handed, and the housemaid is also single-handed, 
she works in a ^ood deal with the parlourmaid, the 
parlourmaid assisting the housemaid in the making of 
the double beds, <fec., and the turning-out of the drawing- 
Digitized byCjOOQlC 



56 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

room at special cleaning times, also doing some portion 
of her work when the housemaid is out ; whilst the latter 
must be prepared to wait when necessary, and also to do 
the parlourmaid's work when the latter is out. Thus 
it will be seen that, the smaller the household, the more 
"give and take" there must be between thescf two maids, 
and it is on the proper division of this interchange that 
the comfort of the household must, in great measure, 
depend. For this reason it behoves the mistress to 
arrange the work according to- the ways and habits of 
her family, and so to come to a clear understanding with 
each servant at the time of engaging her. Roughly 
speaking, the work of the public rooms belong to the 
parlourmaid^ whilst the housemaid has charge of all the 
so-t<K-say private rooms, stairs, &c., and in most cases 
lifts the larger proportion of actual housework off the 
shoulders of the parlourmaid. 

Where no lady's maid is kept, the housemaid "maids" 
the mistress. One point may be noted here, and that is 
the question of knocking at doors. No well-trained 
maid ever knocks at the door of a public-room unless she 
knows the doctor to be in the room with either her 
master or mistress; but, equally, no well-trained servant 
would dream of entering either bed or dressing room 
without knocking to ascertain if her entrance is con- 
venient. The following pages will ^ivo some idea of 
the work belonging to the parlourmaid and housemaid, 
but, as said before, the mistress must adapt these 
general rules to her own individual requirements. 

The Care of Lamps and Lamp Stoves. 

Few things give more trouble in the household than 
the care of lamps and lamp stoves, and, where there is 
not a competent parlourmaid to attend to them, it 
would be well if the British housewife would emulate 
her cousin outremer, and take the charge of them into 
her own hands. Of course, the first outcry will be : " Oh, 
it is such dirty work!" But this is an utter mistake. 
Lamp tendance is only dirty work in the hands of a 
slatternly worker; a tidy woman can do it perfectly 
without soiling her fingers very much (nothing like so 
much as photography would do) or causing any smell. 
To begin with, no lamp should be cleaned, trimmed, or 
filled at any time save in the morning, for after dark 
there is always a certain risk in handling petroleum, 



d by Google 



PARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS' WORK. 57 

kerosine, or whatever kind of mineral oil you choose. 
The lamp-container should be perfectly clean. To ensure 
this, wash it out at regular intervals in soapsuds, to 
which you have added a spoonful or so of Scrubb's cloudy 
ammonia, rinse it well, and leave it to drain till 
thoroughly dry and clean. A lamp should be filled up 
daily till nearly, but not- quite, full; if overfilled, the 
lamp will soil everything that touches it, will give out 
a horrible, greasy smell, and in many cases becomes 
actually dangerous. If not filled sufficiently, or if 
lighted with only a little oil at the bottom of the con- 
tainer, it genetratos an explosive gas, which may at any 
time become a source of danger. When a lamp is to be 
left unlightod for more than twenty-four hours the wick 
should be removed and the oil poured away, for. if left 
soaking in the oil, the wick will corrode and will spoil 
the oil7 and the container should alwavs, if possible, be 
washed out as des(»*ibed above, after oeing left unused 
for any time. The container should be regularly 
emptied out every ten days or so and cleansed as above, 
as this keeps the lamp and the oil in good condition. 
Every good lampmaker will tell you that in 99 cases 
out of 100 accidents or "explosions" are due either to 
sheer dirt, to bad oil, or misfitting wicks. "Cheap" oil 
is never really satisfactory. It means one of two things 
(and verjr often both), either the oil is insufficiently 
purified, in which case it smokes and gives out a most 
horrible smell, while the light is far from satisfactory; 
or else the "flash" point is a dangerously low one. A 
great deal has been said conoeming this same flash point, 
and it has been discussed in trade committees, and also 
in inquiries in the House of Commons, without evolving 
much more than that a low flash point is a distinct 
danger. This "flash" point, put plainly, simply means 
the degree of heat at wh'ch mineral oil gives off a vapour, 
which may be, and very often is, little short of deadly. 
This flash point in foreign, cheap oils stands mostly at 
a dangerously low figure ; in this country, however, most 
of the petroleum sold has its flash point at 73 deg. Fahr., 
i.e., rather above the Government standard, which in 
itself is all right. The danger, however, is this — should 
the temperature of the room be 65 deg. to 68 deg. Fahr. 
(no uncommon heat for a living room, especially with a 
fire), the oil in the lamp, after lighting and burning for 
two or three or more hours, heats in proportion, and ris- 
ing, as it will do, to 6 deg. or 8 deg. above the surrounding 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



68 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

atmosphere, passes the flash point, gives off vapour, 
and becomes dangerous, an explosion becoming merely 
a question of time. This is, in point of fact, the cause 
of half the "explosions" of which one hears. If oil 
with a flash point of 100 deg. were insisted on. this 
risk would, in this country at all events, be absolutely 
obviated. Of course, this increases the jprice of the oil 
sonaewhat; still, only to a verv insignificant degree, 
whilst, besides being safer, suon oil gives an incom- 

Earably better li^ht. This question of the safety of a 
igh flash point in oil was thrashed out some eight or 
nine years ago before the Petroleum Committee of the 
House of Commons, at which a witness, chosen by the 
London Chamber of Commerce, asserted from his own 
experience that safety would not be attained till the 
100 deg. Fahr. "flash" point (close test) was made 
obligatory. 

Having secured a clean lamp and good oil. the next 
point to consider is the wick. This must fit the burner 
exactly! This cannot be too strongly insisted on. It 
should just fill the burner, not loosely, but only just 
tight enough to ensure its working evenly when turned 
up or down. It should be cut just long enough to reach 
the bottom of the container and no more. If left 
soaking 2 or more inches in the oil, as some maids will 
have it, beyond what is needed to reach the bottom, 
the wick will become clogged and hard, and will never 
bum satisfactorily. Some people say the wick should 
always be soaked for some little time in vinegar, then 
well dried, before use. This is said to prevent smoking ; 
it is certainly a good plan for cleansing a dogged wick. 
With regard to the trimming of the wick, opinions differ 
as to the use of scissors, or the cutters sold by many 
lampmakers for the purpose. Again, some sav neither 
should ever be used at all, the wick being simply rubbed 
with a soft piece of paper till all the charrea part is 
removed. The latter is a very good plan, if the cleaner 
can be depended on to remove all the burnt part evenly. 
A very good thing is, if scissors must be used, to trim 
the lamp with them, then burn it for twenty or thirty 
minutee, after which turn it out, and rub off the charred 
part with the paper. An ill or unevenly trimmed lamp 
never bums well, and almost always smokes. In light- 
ing a lamp wise people say that the match should never 
be applied directly to the wick, but held as near as you 
can over the wick, without actually touching it, till the 



d by Google 



PARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS' WORK. 5J^ 

latter catches fire. In lighting a lamp have the wick 
turned down as low as you can, actually to light it, 
and let it bum thus for a few minutes, not turning it 
up till the chimney is well warmed, as this saves smoke 
and the flying of the lamp chimney. Always keep the 
wick turned down low when the lamp is not in use. If 
this is neglected, the oil oozes up between the collar 
and the container of the lamp, which results in dirt 
and unpleasant smell. After the wick, the burner 
requires consideration. Probably it may be news to 
many people to hear that the burner requires a thorough 
cleansmg every month or so. Yet if this is not done 
regularly and carefully, the wick holder fouls, the air 
(on which the safety of the lamp depends) is intercepted 
through the dogging of the airholes, the oil reaches 
"flash" point (always a low one in the cheaper foreign 
oils), the container, whether metal, china, or glass, 
bursts, and in a minute or two the place is in flames. 
This is the history of nine out of ten of the so-called 
explosions, and though, of course, in a cheap lamp the 
danger is considerably greater than in a well-made, sub- 
stantial one, yet dirty burners are by no means confined 
to poor people's lamps I Some time since I was con- 
sulting a well-known lamp maker on this subject, and he 
told me: "I always now look at the burner the very 
first thing when a lamp is brought to me for repair, and 
in nine cases out of ten I find it the cause of the trouble. 
Look at this," taking a burner from a drawer as he 
spoke. It evidently t^longed to a lai^ge and costly lamp, 
but anything so filthy I never expect to see again 1 It 
was clogged with dirty, corroded oil, charred wiok, even 
dead flies, and, of course, the gauze protector was hope- 
lessly closed up. "Well, that beauty came out of a very 
expensive lamp I sold to a customer rather over six 
months ago, and he brought me back the lamp the other 
day, in a towering rage at * the utterljr worthless kind of 
lamp' I had recommended. I promised to see to it, 
and asked him to call back in a day or so. This is the 
burner! I cleaned the lamp container, which had very 
evidently never been emptied out since it left my shop, 
and fitted on a fresh burner, and, when the customer 
returned, I lit it. It burned admirably. He asked me 
what I had done, so I told him, but had very hard work 
to convince him that this really was his burner. How- 
ever, he took the lamp back, and has since written to say 
it is burning admirably, and gives no trouble. In short, 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



60 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

it is being kept clean! I kept the old burner as a 
horrid example." 

Another risk with inferior lamps is that they have no 
safety attachments, as pretty well all well-made lamps 
have now, so that, if they are upset, the oil runs out. the 
lamp does not go out, and the whole place is in a blaze, 
and this takes rank as an " explosion/' though in truth 
it is nothing but the outcome of dirt, carelessness, and 
false economy. Even, however, if it does not possess 
a safety attachment, an upset lamp need not entail an 
accident, if the lamp is caught up at once before the oil 
has time to heat and then catch alight. If it does, the 
only thing is to smother the flame with a heavy rug or 
curtain. The only other thing that will put out petro- 
leum is sand ; so a large vase may be kept in some comer 
full of this in case of accidents if people are nervous. 

To clean the burner, unscrew it from the collar, and, 
if pretty dirty, take it to pieces (this is fairly easy with 
a little care and attention, so as to enable you to replace 
it properly) ; then place these pieces in a pan kept for 
the purpose, with a knob of soda about the size of a 
walnut, pour on to this sufficient cold water to cover it 
all, bring this well to the boil, and let it continue to 
boil for a few minutes till the pieces appear clean ; then 
lift them out^ rinse first in clean, hot water, and then 
in cold, dry bghtly with a cloth, and put them in some 
warm place tiU perfectly dry, after which replace them 
in order, tit on the burner, and the lamp is ready for 
use. It is always well to make this monthly cleaning 
of the burner coincide with the putting in of a fresh 
wick, and a thorough cleaning out of the container, when 
the whole thing wul start fresh and in good order. By 
the way, a piece of camphor, about the siz^ of a hazel- 
nut, or a salt spoonful of salt, added to the oil in the 
container improves the brilliancy of the light wonder- 
fully. Always remember to wipe the neck of the lamp 
carefully after lighting it, for when a lamp is no longer 
quite new the oil oozes into the cement round the collar, 
and, if any of this is left moist, directly the lamp 
becomes heated it gives off a most offensive smell. This 
is generally the reason for the prejudice against lamp 
stoves, which are usually worse treated, in the matter of 
cleanliness, than lamps, which is saying a good deal. 
It must be remembered that everything said of lamp 
trimming applies equally forcibly to the trimming, clean- 
sing, &c., of lamp stoves. 



d by Google 



PABLOUE AND HOUSE MAIDS' WOEK. 61 

There has been some discnaMon vith regard to the 
material of lamp containers, but, if of good quality, 
there is really yery little difference in the safety of 
metal, china, or glass ; indeed, more than one good lamp- 
maker has asserted that the latter i« eren to be preferred 
to metal, as being cooler, and its transparency tending 
to ensure the cleanliness of the oil, on which the light 
so much depends. Very cheap lamps of inferior qnauty 
are never tude, though, with care, cleanliness, and good 
oil, they can be made to work very satisfacttHily ; but 
the least neglect of any of these points will meet with 
sharp punishment. Unfortunately, the people who bom 
cheap lamps all but invariably use cheap, unrefined oil 
with a yery low flash point and seldom, if ever, realise 
the necessity of cleaning either burner or container, with 
results only too frequently chronicled in the daily 
papers. It is quite possible to get inezpensiye, but abao- 
lutely safe, lamps bv going to respectable makers, but, 
of course, these will not compete in price or decora- 
tion (P) with the flashy, so-called artistic, lamps sent 
from abroad, and costi.ig but a few pence each. The 
difference is, the one is made to bum, the other to sell. 

One word as to lamp chimneys. These should, if poa- 
sible, never be washed at all, but cleansed with a proper 
lamp chimney cleaner or brush. If in a very bad 
condition and smoke stained, cleanse with a thick paste 
of whiting mixed with methylated spirits, or else use 
dry salt, and polish with an old soft newsi>aper (good 
housewives say that something in the printers' ink 
always gives brilliancy to glass, and for that reason use 
it to polish windows, mirrors, Ac, as well as lamp 
glasses). If it is absolutely necessary to wash the 
chimney, wash, and rinse well, then put it aside, and 
do not use it till bone dry. Some people put the lamp 
glasses on before use, in cold water, brin^ this slowly 
to the boil, lot it continue to boil for a mmute or two 
hard, then lift the pan off gently, and do not touch the 
glass till the water round it b perfectly cold. This is 
Haid to harden the glass. 

With regard to the amount of oil used, an ordinary 
ftmall lamp holds a full pint of oil, whilst the ordinary 
large duplex takes nearly a quart, and in winter will 
nearly bum that out in one evening. It is, therefore, 
fairly easy to reckon for oneself the amount needed for 
one^s household. If there is storage, it is always more 
satisfactory to buy oil in bulk, drawing off the required 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



62 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

quantity every morning early, and only keeping in the 
house just what is needed to fill up the lamps. 

The Care of Plate. 

Nowadays, when necessity ohliges us to curtail our 
household staff as closely as may be, fashion at the same 
time requires us to use as much silver or plate as we 
can anyway compass for our dinner, dressing, and last, 
but not least, drawing-room curio tables. Now, the 
keeping of silver in good condition entails a great deal 
of care, and not a little work, so that, when the neces- 
sary hands are few, it behoves as to try and find the 
best method of preserving its brilliance and cleanlinefis. 
After this statement, it niay seem a contradiction in 
terms to declare that in nine households out of ten, 
where silver is cared for at all, it is cleaned far too 
often. Yet the solid, steady ''clean,'' which some par- 
lourmaids, and mistresses too, consider indispensable 
for the well-beinff of their cherished plate, at weekly, or 
at most, fortnightly intervals, is not only very weari- 
some to the operator, but, in spite of the brilliancy it 
fives, distinctly not to the benefit of the plate itself, 
'o begin with, much rubbing, it stands to reaaon, 
destroys and blurs the pattern of delicately engraved or 
chased silver; whilst, moreover, many of the plate 
powders,, used with the best intentions, are apt to Bpoii 
the surface of the plate ; especially is this the case with 
electro-plate, as these powuers very often contain mer- 
cury, which causes the silvering to become brittle and 
worn. The best thing to do for silver is to wash it, 
whenever used, in hoUing soapsuds, to which you may 
add a little ammonia if von like, as this certainly 
increases the brightness of the metal. Till the soapsuds 
are sufficiently cool to let you put your hand in them, 
stir the silver in the water very gently with a clean, 
old wooden spoon ; then, as soon as they are washed, 
rinse the articles in some more clean, hot water; when 
thoroughly rinsed, dry them as quickly as possible, for, 
if left about wet, the surface will be disfigured by water 
marks. They should be leathered vigorously as soon 
as they are dry, and whilst still hot; and should, as 
much as possible, be kept from the action of the atnio- 
sphere, the changes in which are responsible for a great 
deal of tarnish. Large articles should have speoial fpceen 
baize bags made to fit them, and should be stored either 



d by Google 



PARLOUR ASD HOUSE MAIDS* WORK. 63 

in a plate chest or a dry drawer, lined, if poasible, with 
^reen baize. Pieces of pore cami»hor staved with the 
silTer are said to preserve its brilliancy wonderfully. 
Forks and spoons in daily use should be placed in a 
proper baiseAined plate basket, containing divisions for 
the different kinds and classes of plate. This basket, 
by the way, should be cleaned oat weekly, tamed apside 
down, patted gently, and then the baue thorooghly 
brushed, to remove any risk of dust or grit, for it can- 
not be too strongly insisted on that aU ciianoes of 
scratching (which with so soft a metal are, unfortunately, 
but too common) must be scrupuloosly avoided. If 
silver is treated in this way inienever used, once a 
month will be generally found quite often enough for 
the resnlar "dean." When cleaning silver, however, 
it shomd be carefully examined for stains, indentations, 
or oUier injuries. The stains may usually be treated by 
oneself, but the bruises. Ac., should be seen to at once 
by a good silversmith. At the same time, warn your 
servants that silver is very easily damaged, and insist 
cm their being careful with it. In old days the best 
silver was invariablv washed and cleaned by the ladien 
of the household, who could afford the time and tronUe 
(and had a personal interest in the things) to do them 
properly, and thus to minimise the risks. Now this, 
in many cases, the parlourmaid is not able to do, and 
oft^i, not having any personal interest in the matter, 
does not pay much attention to the subject. Before 
describing the regular clean, it may be as well to give 
some hints with regard to the ordinary washing of plate. 
Never lean forks or ^loons against the table to clean 
them, as, if you do so, you will almost inevitably bend or 
twist them, for, unconsciously, you press too heavily 
on them in your attempt to secure a good polish. A 
Tery good htUe machine, or utensil, has been intro- 
duced for cleaning forks especially ; the leather-covered 
surface is divided so as to cleanse between the prongs of 
the fork^ (a very necressary precaution, which, when no 
such utensil is at hand, must be effected by dnwing the 
leather backwards and forwards between the pronga to 
produce the polish); but. eren so. there is a risk of 
over-pressure^ and it will be found better to hc^d forks 
and spoons m the hand whilst cleaning th«n; good 
plate cleaners say that no rubber is so effectual as the 
ball of the operator's thumb, but this, of coarse, involves 
hard work. 



d by Google 



64 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

Spoons are specially liable to stain, and should be 
looked over for that purpose. Eggspoons, for instance, 
are very easily tarnished by the sulphur of the egg yolk, 
and when tms is the case, should be washed in the 
ordinary manner, then rubbed up with a little fine, dry 
salt, and again washed. Salt and mustard spoons should 
never be left from day to day in the salt cellars or 
mustard pots, for, if they are, they will inevitably be 
tarnished. Fruit and other acid stains should be 
attended to as quickly as possible, as the longer they 
are left on the harder they are to remove. Salt cellars, 
again, unless they have glass linings, should be emptied 
and wiped out daily, or they will very soon be disfigured 
by blaok or green stains. The same remark applies to 
cake baskets, if the rich, rather buttery cakes, now so 
fashionable, are left in them, as the grease will soak 
through and turn the metal green. 

Teapots, especially, require a good deal more care 
than they usually get ; they should be rinsed out daily 
with bcViling water directly after use, and then well 
dried, both inside and out. Never by any chance allow 
a teapot, however, to be left steeping in the tub ; this 
is not necessary to remove any stains, and will inevitably 
loosen and discolour the wooden or ivory bands on the 
handles, &c. After washing, the teapot lid should 
always be left open, or else the pot will acquire a musty, 
disagreeable odour, which will be more than likely to 
flavour the next brew of tea. If such an accident has 
happened, fill the teapot over-night with boiling water, 
put in a lump of soda the size of a nut, dose the lid, 
and let it stand till the next day, when it must be 
emptied out, thoroughly washed in boiling water, and 
scrubbed with a small brush kept for the purpose ; then 
rinsed, and well dried as before. The process should 
be carried out at regular intervals, if the teapot is in 
constant use, as accidents will happen, and the teapot 
may get forgotten. 

Sheffield plate, so much valued nowadays, is cleaned 
precisely in the same way as ordinary silver ; but where, 
as with decanter-stands and such like, wood is mixed 
with the silver, the fonner must be carefully cleansed 
with a cloth wrung out of warm water, then rinsed with 
another cloth, similarly wrung out of cold, dean water, 
thoroughly dried, and covered with a sheet of paper, or 
something of the kind, cut to fit, whilst the silver is 



d by Google 



PARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS' WORK. 65 

being cleaned, aa plate powder is pretty sure to spoil 
the surface and polish of the wood. 

Frosted silver shoidd be washed in very hot, soapy 
water, dried with a soft doth in front of the fire, and 
then well leathered ; it should be carefully brushed, with 
a brush kept for its use only, to ensure the removal of 
any dust, &o., in the crevices. When this kind of silver 
is cleaned at the regular plate cleaning, the plate powder 
used should be most thoroughly brushed out, the article 
again washed in boiling soapsuds, rinsed also in hot 
water, dried, and leathered. It is well to keep frosted 
silver in good condition by constant small attentions, 
as too frequent, serious cleanings will injure the surface 
of the metal. 

Oxidised silver, again, should be washed in hot soap 
and water as quickly as possible, rinsed in hot water, 
dried, and leatnered. If, however, it is very much dis- 
coloured, you will find it necessary to make a solution 
by dissolving loz. of sulphate of soda in a pint of boilinc 
water, then rubbing the discoloured parts with a flannel 
dipped in this solution; rinse, and finish off aa before. 
Though the actual deeming of the silver is given later, 
a word must be said regarding the daily washing. To 
keep plate in good condition you require absolutely 
boiling water, plenty of soapsuds (if the maid will take 
the trouble, she will find soap jeUy infinitely better than 
the use of plain soap), plenty of rinsing water, and 
absolutely clean cloths and leathers, for the least touch 
of damp or grease on either of these will utterly prevent 
any chance of getting the plate into good condition. 
This cleanliness is easy enough to secure with regard to 
the cloths, but the chamois leathers are a different 
matter. There is a kind of superstition extwit that 
this leather is, if not impossible, at all events extremely 
difficult to wash successfully. As a matter of fact, 
granted a little care, nothing is much easier. 

To wash chamois leather, wash and rinse it exactly 
like flannel, in warm, but not hot, water, never rubbing 
with soap in the washing, but washing it with soap 
jelly or suds; then rinse it in clean water, of the same 
temi>erature as the first, until every trace of soap is 
removed, when it should be carefully pressed between 
the hands to get rid of as much of the water as possible ; 
then well shaken, pulled into good shape, and hung up 
at once to dry, either outside in a good wind and not 
too hot a sun, or in a warm room where it will dry 
p 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



66 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

quickly. But leathers must never be put near an open 
nre, or into 80 hot a temperature as to cause them to 
steam, or they will harden and shrink at once. Pull 
out and rub well constantly whilst the leather is drying, 
and, if you like, smooth out last of all with a cool iron. 
If treated in this way, they will be perfectly soft and like 
new when you have done. 

Soap Jelly. — Shred down some soap (or use any odds 
and ends you may have saved for the purpose) with a 
knife, which should be kept for this use only ; put this 
soap into a pan, just cover it with hot or cold water, 
and melt it very slowly over the fire until clear and 
absolutely smooth. This jelly will keep for several days, 
but, if used constantly, should be made weekly, at the 
outside. If preferred, the soap shreds should be placed 
in a jar, and melted in the oven. Any scraps of soap 
will do, but remember that the pan or jar, the knife, 
and the board, used in its preparation must be kept 
for this purpose only, for they will flavour strongly and 
most unpleasantly anything they touch. When making 
this jelly do not overfill the pan, as the soap is very 
apt to boil over. 

Plate, if kept as described above, will not require 
nearly as frequent cleaning; indeed, once in three or 
four weeks will be found quite ample, unless in very 
foggy weather, in which case an hour or two is suffi- 
cient to tarnish irremediably the best cleaned silver. 

When a regular clean is needed, arrange so as to 
ensure a good portion of uninterrupted time. You 
cannot hurry plate cleaning without scamping your work 
or damaging the plate, so lay your plans accordingly. 
Collect your cloths, leathers, brushes, &c., and see 
that they are perfectly clean and free from grease, then 
look up the silver, and sort out all that is badly stained 
in any way, and put that aside. Now, with regard to 
plate powder. There are many very good kinds on the 
market, but, at the same time, there are many consider- 
ably mixed with quicksilver or mercury, which is 
injurious to the plate. Silversmiths constantly recom- 
mend rouge — the non-mercurial kind, of course — and 
this, like the plate powders (also non-mercurial), sold by 
good silversmiths, such as the amalgamated firm of 
Messrs Mappin, Messrs Spink, &c., answer excellently. 
Still, personal experience leads me to prefer ordinaiy 
plain whiting, especially if precipitated, as then it is 
absolutely free from any danger of grit, &c. To precipi- 



d by Google 



PARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS' WORK. 67 

iate whiting, tie up a sufficient quantity loosely in a 
piece of fine old muslin, fasten tnis to the handle of 
& jug) letting the bag hang over inside; pour over it 
sufficient cold water to cover the whiting completely, 
and let it stand till the next day, when aU the whiting 
should hare passed through. Now pour off the clear 
water, and put the sediment, which is really the whiting, 
on to plates, or a dish, on the rack over the hot plate, 
or in some warm comer, till it is perfectly dry, when 
you should pack it in small tins, out of the dust. If 
you like, you can colour this with a little jewellers' 
rouge, which can be easily and cheaply bought. But 
though some people prefer this colour, the plain whiting 
is perfectly satiaactory. For use, moisten the powder 
required with sufficient spirit to get it to the consistency 
of single cream. Any spirit may be used for this mixing, 
methylated spirit being about the cheapest ; but, when 
handy, unsweetened ^n is considered to give the best 
effect. (If jpolishing diamonds or delicate jewelle^, Eau 
de Cologne is the best for mixing the powder.) Having 
washed the silver to free it from any dust or greasiness 
(it will not polish properly if the le(zst greas^, d^ it, 
and apply tne paste pretty thickly with a soft rag. 
Now put the article to be cleansed in some warm place, 
to dry it, and, when quite dry, rub it well with a clean, 
soft cloth, using a perfectly clean brush to remove any 
trace of the polishing powder from the embossing or 
chasing; then rub it well up with an absolutely dean 
soft leather, and put it away at onoe. Never handle 
well-cleaned plate more than you can help, for the heat 
of the hand is sufficient to tfurnish it. For this reason, 
many experienced menservants and parlourmaids always 
keep a leather glove at hand when laying their tables, 
so as to avoid touching the plate with their bare hands. 
At any rate, when laying a table, a clean leather should 
always be handy, to give a final polish to the silver at 
the very last. (The same attention should also be paid 
to the glass on the table.) Kept in this way, there 
should be little difficulty in having the silver in nice 
condition. 

For large ornamental pieces of plate, which are prac- 
tically never exposed to actual use, it is far better, in 
this climate, to have them lacquered by the process 
brought out by the Gold and Silver Plating Company. 
166, QueenVroad, Bayswater, as this enables the metal 
to withstand the effects of the atmosphere, and even 
p 2 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



68 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

when tarnished is easily rubbed up with a clean, soft 
leather. But remember, where plate is thus laoquered, 
it needs no cleaning in the ordinary way, and, at the 
very worst, only most gentle and careful washing in 
warm soap and water, using non-soda soap, rinsing well 
and quickly^ and drying at once. But, as a rule, careful 
leathering is all that it needs. Where the silver is 
much discoloured, old housewives give many remedies. 
One is to mix a little prepared chalk to a smooth x>aste 
with sweet oil, rubbing this well on to the stained parts, 
and finishing off in the usual way. Another method is to 
make a paste of hartshorn powder (procurable from the 
chemist) with spirits of wine, applying this in the same 
way. Many persons skilled in plate cleaning sajr that 
this paste is most excellent for producing a brilliant 
polish on an emergency, and, indeed, even prefer it to 
whiting for genersJ use. Whiting, as is well known, is 
simply finely-ground chalk. 

Ajiother very excellent thing for plate cleaning, which 
may be used in the daily wash, is a kind of silver soapt 
which may be prepared thus: Put into a pan 4oz. each 
of washing soda, yellow soap, and whiting, with one 
pint of ooTd water; boil all together till perfectly dis- 
solved, keeping it well stirred, then pour it into a jar 
to set ; when set it may be turned out and cut into cakes. 
Some people run this into a dish, and then cut it up 
when set into bars or cakes. 

Another useful item in cleaning silver is the so-called 
silver clothy which may be bought ready; but they are 
easy enough to prepare at home. Choose nice soft, 
clean, old rags of a convenient size, and boil them in 
one pint of new milk, to which you have added loz. of 
hartshorn powder. After boiling them for five minutes, 
wring them out, and dry before the fire, when they will 
be ready for use. 

The following is also an excellent method of cleaning 
blackened and neglected silver. Make a saturated solu- 
tion of hyposulphite of soda (a pound of which can be 
got for a penny or two, dissolving this in as much, but 
no more, water than it can thoroughly absorb), and with 
a soft rag or sponge moisten every part of the dirty 
silver with this saturated solution. In a few minutes all 
the black should come off ; then wash the piece in warm 
soap and water, rinse it thoroughly dean with warm 
water, and dry it. To complete the work make some 
fine sifted whiting into a creamy paste with loz. each 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



P^lRLOUR and house maids* work. 69 

of spirits of turpentine and spirits of wine. Now with 
a clean sponge give the silver a coat of this mixture 
until you have it all over the piece like whitewash, allow 
it to dry completely, then, with a soft plate brush, brush 
the powder all off, and finally polish it with a soft wash- 
leather. 

Plate not actually used for eating purposes should 
be carefully and regularly attended to, silver or plated 
candlesticks especially requiring attention. Any wax 
apilt on these should always be removed with a cloth or 
flannel, wrung out of very hot, soapy water, to dis- 
solve tne grease. Many servants have a trick of wiping 
this wax off with paper, or even, worse still, scraping it 
with a knife^ but this is certain to scratch and spoil the 
silver, and silver once scratched will never take a proper 
polish again till it has been sent to the silversmiths to 
be treated. 

Silver inkstands and other writing-table implements 
constantly get stained with ink, which, if treated at 
once, is easy enough to remove. If, however, it has 
been allowed to harden on, try washing it in hot borax 
and water ; and, if this is ineffectual, rub the stains with 
a solution of chloride of lime, rinse them well, dry. and 
leather. For the lime solution, mix 4oz. chloride or lime 
to a smooth paste with a little cold water, and, when this 
is smooth and thoroughly blended, add sufficient water 
to bring the quantity of water used up to one and a half 
pints, stir it well together, cover closely, and let it stand 
for twenty-four hours, stirring it occasionally. Now let 
it settle, then skim off any particles floating on the 
surface, and carefully bottle off the clear liquid, corking 
it down well. If kept tightly corked, this preserves its 
strength indefinitely. Plated entree dishes-, dish covers 
(unless lacquered), and such like are the better for being 
put into a copper of boiling water in which you have 
dissolved a small handful of hartshorn powder, and boiled 
for a few minutes, as nothing else will remove the grease 
and freshen the plate so well. Of course, the things 
must be thoroughly rinsed, dried, and leathered subse- 
quently. This need only be done twice, or at most 
thrice, a year. 

With fish and dessert knives and forks, be careful 
never to leave them in boiling water, as this loosens 
the band of silver that keeps the blades and handles 
together, and, even if the latter do not come off, they 
loosen, from the dissolving of the cement, and get 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



70 HOUSEHOLD HmTS. 

unsightly. Properly, such things should be washed like 
table knives — in a jug, so that the water never reaches 
the handles at all. 

These hints may seem very commonplace and ordinary, 
but in plate cleaning, a&, indeed, with many things, the 
work is simple enough of itself if done conscientiously, 
and with regard to the old saying that " a stitch in time 
saves nine." But if scamped, or done in the wrong 
way, it must be admitted that few things in the house- 
hold are more disappointing and unsatisfactory ; so it is 
well worth the while of the person in charge to study 
the right methods, and to carry them out intelligently. 

Few cooks know how to reheat small entrees properly 
when to be served in the silver dish they were originally 
served in. This may be done perfectly safely if a sheet 
of blotting or kitchen paper is laid double into a baking- 
tin, the silver dish set on this, and boiling water poured 
all round the latter in the baking-tin. It can now be 
set in the oven, and as long as there is water in the outer 
pan the silver dish will come to no harm. 

Another hint refers to mayonnaises. These are often 
served in silver entree dishes, and these, when emptied 
out, are then found to be stained from the vinegar in 
the salad dressing, a stain, by the bye, which is decidedly 
troublesome to remove. To avoid this, pour a thin layer 
of aspic, or, preferably, savoury jelly, into the dish to 
be used, and let this get i)erf ectly hard and set, when 
the mayonnaise may be put in it with perfect impunity. 
For this purpose the jelly should be very stiff. Failing 
aspic or other jelly, dissolve ioz. of leaf gelatine in a 
tumbler of water, and use this just as it is setting. 

If the servant charged with the care of plate will 
follow the above directions carefully and conscientiously, 
she will find it easy enough, and by no means a fatiguing 
process, to keep her plate in first-rate condition; but 
she must always remember that nofhing will give a good 
polish to a greasy and badly-washed piece of silver, and 
that however careful she is in the matter of hot water, 
&c., unless her cloths, leathers, and brushes are, all 
alike, free from damp, dirt, and grease, she will be dis- 
api>ointed with the result. 

To the parlourmaid belongs also the care of the glass 
used in the dining-room and also the breakfast and tea 
sets, and it is well for her to realise that there is a 
right and a wrong way of caring for both of these. To 
begin with washing china: Wash this in thoroughly hot 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



PARLOUR AND HOUSE MAlDS* WORK. 7i 

soapy water, but if there is the least gilding on the 
china, never use any soda, as this almost always destroys 
the brilliancy, and, indeed, the actual existence of the 
gilding ; rinse thoroughly, and dry with a soft teacloth. 
Soda, as a matter of fact, is seldom, if ever, needed for 
delicate china, as a flannel and hot water easily remove 
any grease there may be; also remember that hard 
rubbing destroys the colour on painted china. Teacups 
or teapots stained with tea should be rubbed with dry 
salt, which will completely remove the mark. Never 
place any delicate china into boiling water, or in a hot 
oven, or it will almost inevitably crack. 

Of glass there are many kinds, each requiring care in 
the washing if the best effect is to be produced. There 
is moulded glass, which is made by pouring molten glass 
into steel moulds. This is the cheapest form of ^ass, 
but, if kept clean and bright, looks very well for ordinary 
purposes. The well-known cut glass, the most expensive 
form, has every facet cut separately on the surface of 
very clear, thick glass, and then has to be most care- 
fully polished after cutting. The cut glass made in 
England is said to be a specialite of that country, 
unrivalled by any other form made abroad. To keep tms 
clean it must be thoroughly well brushed out before 
washing, to prevent any dust clogging the cuttings. 
Engraved glass requires no special treatment. Frosted 
glass, which, if good, is also expensive, requires to be 
kept most scrupulously^ clean if to be seen to advantage. 
All glass, especially drinking glass, is improved by being 
washed in ammoniated soapy water, which should be 
fairly hot, but not boiling, then thoroughly rinsed in 
clean, cold water, and left upside down to drain on a 
tray or rack; dry with a clean, soft glass cloth, and 
polish with a leather. Two or three times a week a little 
vinegar may bo added to the rinsing water, as this 
brightens the glass greatly. The rinsing water should 
always be cold ; if it is hot, the glass will look smeary 
and cloudy. Wineglasses are washed in the same way, 
but care must be taken in drying them, for, if not care- 
fully held, nothing is easier than to screw off the bowl 
from the stem. If tumblers have been used for milk, 
or wineglasses for gravy for a child, cold water should 
be at once poured into them to rinse off the grease and 
prevent its sinking into the glass, afterwards cleaning it 
as above. 

Decanters would seldom, if ever, get into the state 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



7^ Household hints. 

they often do, to the annoyance of housewives, were it 
made a practice of pouring a little cold water into them 
directly the wine they contained is finished; this is 
especially the case with port. To cleanse them in the 
ordinary way, put a small handful of tea leaves, with a 
gill each of vinegar and water, and a knob of salt the 
size of a walnut, into the bottle, and let it stand for 
an hour or two, shaking it occasionally ; then rinse out 
well in tjold water, dry with a soft glass cloth, polish 
with a chamois leather, and leave it, neck downwanls, to 
drain. If cleaning decanters in this way, be careful 
never to put the stopper in again till the decanter is 
perfectly dry. Eggshells crushed up in a little salt and 
mixed with warm water; or sliced raw potato in warm 
water; or pieces of well-soaked brown paper rolled up 
and added to warm water, are all recommended for the 
cleansing of stained decanters, which in either case 
should be well shaken with warm water, then thoroughly 
rinsed out with cold. Silver sand is good for brightening 
glass, but, unless very carefully rinsed out, is apt to 
adhere to the glass, whilst small shot or " sparrow nail," 
much beloved by menservants for glass cleaning, is apt 
to scratch the glass, and so endanger its future 
brilliancy. 

Lamp globes J should be washed, like tumblers, at fre- 
quent intervals, being careful to dust them well before 
putting them into the water. They should not be dried 
with a cloth, but stood on a rack, and left to dry 
gradually; never use again till perfectly dry. Always 
use a wooden tub, or a papier mache bowl for glass and 
china, as it is less likel:^ to cause accidents. 

Knives. — ^These require far more attention than they 
usually receive. To begin with, a knife should never 
be placed in a tub or basin, for, if immersed in water, 
especially hot water, it will soften the cement which 
fixes the handle; this will loosen, and the knife will, in 
a very short time, look untidy and shabby. As, how- 
ever, knives must be washed, the best plan is to keep 
a special jug for the piupose, just long enough to take 
the knife blades without allowing the water to reach 
the handles; pour hot water into this, with a little 
soda or ammonia, and leave them in it for a little, after 
which wipe well, and then rub up the handles; they 
may then be polished. Now, with regard to polishing 
knives there is a good deal of difference of opinion. 
Knife machines, especially good ones, are undoubtedly 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



PAIILOUR AlfD HOUSE MAlDS* WORK. 73 

great labour savers, but equally oertainlv, unless care- 
fully handled, they work destruction to the knives ; one 
cause of trouble is that untrained servants put 
unwashed, greasy knives in the machine, and so spoil 
and clog the brushes, and certainly, unless very care- 
fully managed, these machines have a tendency to wear 
down the knife blades, and, in the hands of a careless 
girl, to break them. But this, of course, arises from 
the abuse, and not the use, of the knife machine. 
Undoubtedly one of the most satisfactory methods of 
cleaning (for the knife owner) is an ordinary knife- 
board, sprinkled^ with knife powder, or very finely- 
powdered bath brick, on which the knife is lightly rubbed 
backwards and forwards, leaning very lightly on the 
blade as you do so. If too heavy pressure is applied, it 
will turn the blade and wear away the point; for this 
reason some mistresses prefer the knife to be laid on 
the knife board, and the knife rubbed up with a cork 
dipped in the powder. 

Stains may be removed from the blades, either by 
stabbing them into the earth or rubbing them well with 
a cut potato. (N.B. — Either of these methods remove 
the taint of onion.) Always dust knives thoroughly 
after cleaning them. Should the ivory knife handles 
become stained, cleanse them with fine salt moistened 
with lemon juice on a flannel rag. There is a powder 
called Zampo, which is most excellent for cleaning ivory. 

Flower vaseSy especially those used for dining-room 
decoration, should be most carefully kept, being well 
washed and rinsed to prevent staining. In many houses 
the parlourmaid has the charge of the floral decorations, 
in some the mistress undertakes it; but, in any case, 
there is one strict rule, dirty or stained flower vases ana 
half-wilted flowers are the marks of a slattern. The 
water should be changed daily, the flower vases being 
well rinsed out before fresh water is put in, the dead 
flowers carefully picked out, and a tiny bit of the stems 
snipped off the rest if they seem faaed. A fact that 
servants are very slow to recognise is that all foliage 
should be stripped off the parts of the stems that go into 
the water, as otherwise these decay and foul the water, 
killing the flowers, and producing a most offensive smell. 

Brasses, &c. — Another point to be impressed on par- 
lourmaids who have charge of brasses, copper, Ac., is 
that no polish should ever, on any excuse, be applied to 
lacquered articles. If once applied, the metal polish 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



74 HOUSEHOLD HIN'TS. 

will spoil the surface of the lacquer, and with the best 
kind will produce a cloudiness which will require to be 
rubbed off and cleaned up daily if the article is to be 
kept in good condition. Should the article be of a less 
good quality, it will be probably found that the metal 
polish and the rubbing it involves will not only remove 
the lacquer, but also the coating of brass, copper, &c., 
with which the inferior foundation metal is, so to speak, 
plated. Lacquered goods should be rubbed up with a 
leather, and, if dirty, washed with a little good soap and 
tepid water (no soda), and well dried ; in extreme cases 
a paste of whiting and water being carefully applied 
and then rubbed ofi. 

Recipes are given in the last chapter for the treatment 
of various kinds of metals. 

Mirrors should be well dusted and the frames lightly 
wiped with a clean doth. The best thing to rub up the 
glass is a pad of old, soft newspaper. If the glass has 
been neglected and smeared^ the best thing is to moisten 
a rag with methylated spirits, dip this in fine, precipi- 
tated whiting, and rub the glass well over with this 
(being careful not to let it touch the frame or to come 
between the lacquering and the glass, as it is then 
difficult to remove), after which dry with a duster and 
polish well with a chamois leather. Fly marks can be 
removed by dusting them with fine, powdered blue, tied 
up in a soft piece of muslin, after which rub up thp 
spots with an old silk handkerchief. 

For the frames j if of good English gilt, they need only 
wiping gently with a damp leather, and then drying 
with an old silk handkerchief — of course, after 
thoroughly dusting the frame. Many frame makers 
advise^ a coating of clear parchment size over the gilding 
(especially if not of the first quality), as this prevent^ 
the dirt darkening and discolouring the gold, and allows 
of the surface being damped with a clean, wet sponge, 
this being allowed to dry without wiping. Onion water 
applied with an old, soft rag is not only excellent for 
reviving gilding, but also keeps off fiies. It should be 
applied two or three times during the spring and 
summer. To^ make onion water : Boil one large or two 
small onions in a pint of water till they are ^[uite tender 
and all the goodness is extracted, then strain and leave 
till tepid, when it may be used. One of the great duties 
of a housemaid is the care of the hedSy and concerning 
these a few words may well be spoken. The amount of 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



PARLOim AISTD BOUSE MAlDS* WORK. 76 

bed linen required has been given in the chapter on the 
linen cupboard, so need not be referred to here ; but the 
actual bedmaking requires a little notice. The inmate 
of the room, or his or her attendant, presumably opens 
the window, and throws back the bed clothes before 
leaving the room ; in any case, the moment the house- 
maid comes in she should open the windows top and 
bottom, then strip off the clothes one by one, and place 
them on chairs at the foot of the bed,beating and shaking 
out the pillows and bolster, setting these to air near 
the window if possible; the lower clothes should be 
removed in the same way, the mattress being raised at 
the two ends so as to form an arch through which the air 
can pass, and the door should be left open, if possible, 
to ensure a thorough draught through the room. The 
next bedroom in use should then be taken and similarly 
treated, until all the beds are stripped. Beds require 
at least an hour^s airing before making, or the room will 
never be free of a close, stuffy smell, and the sleep of 
the inmate will be disturbed and uncomfortable. The 
fresher the bed the pleasant er the sleep. When making 
the bed turn the mattress from side to side and top to 
bottom on alternate days to make it wear evenly, and 
be sure the bedclothes are laid straight and well tucked 
in, free from wrinkles. If a bolster case is not used, the 
end of the lower sheet must be rolled smoothly round 
it, then put on the top sheet wrong side out, leaving 
the most 'margin at the top; the blankets should next 
be placed on, the deeper margin then tucked in at the 
foot, after which fold the extra length of sheet at the 
top over the blankets, being careful to have the narrow 
hem of the sheets and the marking of the blanket, &c., 
at the foot of the bed ; lastly, lay on the quilt evenly 
and smoothly, covering it witli the eiderdown or the 
embroidered "bedspre^" as the case may be. Now 
fold over the sheet and blanket evenly on the top of the 
eiderdown, and place the pillows in position hems down- 
wards, and, in a double bed, with the fastening sides 
towards the centre. When pillow and bed shams are 
used, the upper pillows should be dropped into an 
embroidered cover and returned to their place, whilst 
the sheet sham is slipped in under the bed clothes and 
folded over so as to entirely cover the real sheet, its 
embroidered or lace edge resting on the eiderdown or 
bedspread. Directions for making the bed have been 
given with the airing of the bed, but, properly speaking, 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



76 HOUSEHOLD BlN'Tg. 

this process is not carried out till after the washstands. 
toilet tables, &o., have been properly cleared ana 
attended to, as this gives more time for the airing, 
beginning at the room which was aired first and going 
on in rotation to the others, after which return and 
make the beds in similar rotation, finally dusting and 
removing any scraps, &c. A good housemaid folds and 
puts away any clothes, &c., left out by the inmate before 
beginning to tidy the room. In the evening, when she 
takes up the dressing water, she will, if the owner of 
the room has no maid, lay out dressing gown, 
slippers, &c. 

Now with regard to the care of beds and bedding. 
The iron bedstead has advantages over the older 
wooden one; but both can be kept in perfect order with 
a minimum amount of attention, provided this be given 
regularly. The former harbour dust more than one 
realises, as can easily be seen by lifting the laths where 
they cross one another; these little nests, and every 
corner, should be dusted with a brush at intervals, and 
not unless this precaution be taken can any one boast of 
cleanliness. The main enemies are dust, damp, and 
moth. Brushing must be extended to the mattresses, 
which harbour dirt all along the edges, and especially 
wherever a button is fixed. A very good plan is to tie 
a thick piece of heasian all over the laths, under the 
mattress. This serves a double purpose ; it helps to keep 
the bedding clean and saves much wear, as the sharp irons 
out into the mattress and often cause ironmould. A 
loose holland cover over the mattress, made to button 
tidily at one end, also goes a long way towards keeping 
it clean, lliis can be washed and changed as often as 
need be without much trouble or expense. Wherever 
there is any danger of moth, Keating's powder can be 
freely used between the ticking and the cover. 

Send the mattresses to a good upholsterer if any signs 
of moth appear, as the horsehair will need thorough 
baking, and the tick will want washing, before the evil 
can be cured. Again, in cases of infection the articles 
should be sent to some well-known public disinfecting 
establishment, where everything is baked in large ovens 
arranged expressly. If the mattress, pillow, or feather 
bed only need freshening, and space is not too limited, 
the operation can be performed at home, thus : Unpick 
the ticking, remove the flock or feathers, pick them all 
over thoroughly, and expose them for twenty-four hours 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



PARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS' WORK. 77 

at least to the sun and the air. If this process should 
he neoeseary during the cold weather, light a large fire 
in a dry, airy room (which fire, by the way, must be 
carefully screened, as the least draught might cause the 
feathers to fly about, and accidents hap{>en only too 
quickly). The contents of pillows can easily be baked 
in a large oven, but where feather beds are concerned 
this would be an endless matter. 

It is very important to air all the bedding thoroughly 
— that is to say, to turn it out bodily into the open air. 
If this is impossible, everything can be put on chairs 
before the open window, if possible on a sunny day ; this 
apparently trifling point is too much overlooked, and 
cannot be too highly recommended. If this process is 
regularly carried out at settled intervals, the care of 
bedding will not really imply more trouble than the 
dusting of a room, with an occasional "turn out." 

Blankets are a difficulty to many people, mostly 
because they cannot make up their minds as to how 
often they should be washed, nor how they should be 
treated. In man^ houses they are only washed once a 
year, at the inevitable spring cleaning; but somehow 
that does seem rather too rare a proceeding. On the 
other hand, it is really not necessary to have them 
washed more than twice a year; but they must have 
proper care in the interval in the shape of airing, 
shaking, &c. If washed at honie, they can be got up 
to i)erfection, whereas by sending them out there is 
always the risk of shrinking. A washing machine is very 
good for this purpose, especially as they should never 
be rubbed by the hand; in fact, when there is no 
machine, and housewives care for the well-being of their 
goods, they are alwa^^s treated with what is commonly 
called a " dolly." This is a well-known contrivance, by 
means of which the blanket is well shaken and worked 
about in the tub, so that it is thoroughly cleansed 
without being rubbed with the hands. The water should 
only be luke-warm, and no soda must be used — a little 
washing powder or Sunlight soap well lathered in the 
water is all Ihat will be required. Wring the blankets 
very dry through a wringer, shake them out, and wash 
again in the same way, wringing each time until they 
are quite clean. Do not rinse them, but i>ull them into 
shape and han^ them out in the sun, which is a great 
help in preservmg a good colour. New blankets especi- 
ally should be treated exactly according to these instruo- 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



78 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

tions; when the material is older there is no longer so 
much danger of shrinking. Obviously, all curtains, 
hangings, valances, &c., harbour dust. Of course, wash- 
ing materials are more to be advocated than serges, 
woollen stuffs, &o., that will not wash, for the dust that 
clings to such materials must inevitably take away from 
the perfect wholesomeness of the room. The neatest 
way to put up valances is to run them on to a narrow 
wooden lath fixed, or merely laid, on the bedstead itself 
under the paillasse. The old-fashioned heavy counter- 

ganes, which seemed essential to every householder's 
appiness, are going out of use, chiefly perhaps because 
they are so diflScult to keep clean, troublesome to wash 
at home (unless there is a great deal of space), and very 
soon ruined by the average laundress ; the thinner honey- 
comb pattern is preferable, or a pretty bedspread to 
match the appointments of the room always looks dainty 
and pleasant. 

Finally, one of the best preparations for cleaning the 
ironwork of bedsteads is benzine coUas; it never cor- 
rodes, and the smell evaporates very quickly ; it isalso the 
best preventive against insects, which sometimes appear 
in the most unexpected manner. If any such linweloopie 
visitors make their appearance in wooden frames, they 
are more difficult to treat, on account of the chinks in 
the wood; nitric acid, however, soon disposes of the most 
obstinate cases. It is, perhaps, almost superfluous to 
give these remedies, and it is to be hoped that they may 
rarely have to be called into requisition. Benzine collas 
is a splendid cleansing substance for iron, which is the 
principal thing to bear in mind. When, however, this is 
considered too expensive, pure paraffin is a most efficient 
substitute, thougn it requires a good deal of airing to 
obviate its unpleasant smell, which is the great objection 
to its general use. 

As no one can work properly without a sufficient 
supply of necessary tools, it may be well to givB a list 
of the articles required by the two maids treated of 
respectively. 

Parlourmaid, — One washing-up tub, one tub (or pre- 
ferably a papier-mach^ or **pulp** ware bowl) for glass, 
&c., one lamp scissors, one lamp leather, one lamp brush 
or rubber, two plate brushes, two or three leathers, one 
Selvyt, one plate basket, two knife trays (one for clean 
and one for dirty), one sink basket and brush, one scrub- 
bing brush, one carpet broom, one dustpan and double 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



PARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS' WORK. 79 

brush, one pail, one housemaid's box (if she has any 
grates) with blacklead and polishing brushes, one leather 
for window cleaning, one hand bowl, one roller and 
towel, and, if possible, a lamp filler. The list of cloths, 
&o., was given in the chapter on the linen cupboard. 
She will also require some spare basins, a jug for knife 
cleaning, and either a knife machine or a knife board. 

Housemaid. — One sweeping broom, one hard carpet 
broom, one scrubbing brush, one dustpan and double 
brush, one housemaid's box with blacklead and polishing 
brushes, one leather for brass ware, one leather for 
window cleaning, one Selvyt cloth, one zinc pail, one 
enamelled or china toilet pail, one clothes horse, two 
or more hot water cans, one or more cold water cans, one 
cinder sifter, one large piece of sacking to cover the 
carpet when doing the grate. The cloths, &c., she will 
require have been given in the chapter on the linen 
cupboard. 



d by Google 



CHAPTEE VI. 
THE OFFICES. 

It may as well be stated, to start with, that on the 
relations existing between the house mistress and her 
cook will depend, in great measure, the comfort of the 
entire housenold. Now, unless the condition and com- 
fort of the kitchen and its appurtenances (in house 
agent^s parlance, the "oflfices") are well seen to, the 
necessary entente cordiale is by no means likely to be 
maintained. Roughly speaking, the offices consist of 
kitchen, scullery, larder, pantry (a place, however, 
sacred to the i)arlourmaid), and, if any way possible, a 
room to be used as a servants* hall, or parlour, where 
the servants can sit, eat, and rest. Of course, in small 
houses, this last is an unattainable luxury, but where 
it is in any way possible, it is well worth contrivance, 
as it adds so mu^ to the domestic comfort, and, con- 
sequently, the contentment of the household. 

This parlour should be plainlv, but conveniently, fur- 
nished, and if the linen extra glass, and store cupboards 
be installed there, pernaps so much the better. Be- 
sides the indispensable table and ohairs, there should be 
a couple of armchairs (the ordinary Windsor armchair, 
with a cushion, is most oomfortable^ and so is the ordi- 
nary hammock chair), and if there is anywhere an old- 
fashioned sofa still whole, though no longer "drawing- 
room company," as the children say, this will be an 
immense boon, especially where there are young maids, 
who are as disposed to outgrow their strength as any 
other girls. A few shelves for books, writing desk, Ac, 
is another comfort which costs but little^ though adding 
enormously to the home-like feeling, without which it 
is well nigh impossible to keep (even supposing one gets) 



d by Google 



THE OFFICES. 8i 

steady, respectable servants. I know from experience 
that it is not easy to tempt servants away from such a 
" family, " even for the chance of higher wages. If, how- 
ever, this parlour is impossible, the kitwien must be 
arranged accordingly. 

The kitchen should be light, bright, and, above all, 
well ventilated. The exigencies of town life may rendel 
the first of these conditions difficult to obtain, but the 
other two are sine qua non ! If, as only too frequently 
happens, the kitchen looks out on an area (with probably 
an interesting vista of the dusthole and coal cellar), the 
walls of this area must be kept regularly limewashed, as 
this is not only sanitary, but increases the light m the 
room. If the kitchen must, perforce, also be the ser- 
vants* hall, have the windows neatly curtained with 
mushn, allowing a sufficient supply of this to ensure 
the cleanliness of these curtains; and encourage the 
servants to keep trim window-boxes. Where, however, 
the kitcljen can be kept entirely for its proper use, keep 
to strictly utilitarian furniture. A large, steady table, 
another smaller one for dishing up (both should be of 
deal and spotlessly kept), a good dresser, with two 
drawers, two cupboards, one for Kitchen stores, the other 
for spare plates and dishes, moulds, &c., a good clock, 
a couple of boards nailed to the wall to hold the dish 
covers, a modem, well-chosen range, and, if it may_be, 
a small gas stove. Apropos of this, it is well to establish 
that never (save at times of unusual stress and hurry) 
should the range and the gas stove be kept in use at the 
same time. If this rule is not rigidly enforced, there 
will be trouble over the coal, or the gas bill, and possibly 
both, at the end of the quarter. Care must be taken 
re the range, for unless in good working order, and of a 
good make, both labour and expense will be nearly 
doubled. There are so many good ranges going,^ it is 
almost invidious to specify any particular make, though 
the experience of many years leads me, personally, to 
favour the Eagle range, both for its use and its economy. 
It is so arranged that a very small fire (when no cooking 
is about) will keep the boiler hot, and the fire can be 
increased or decreased in a minute without trouble or 
exertion. Whilst on the subject of the range, let me 
remark that the strictest cleanliness is indispensable in 
this matter. The ranee must be thoroughly cleaned out 
daily, all cinders, ashes, Ac, being cleared from the 
range with a cinder shovel, sweeping out the flues with 
Q 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



8^ HOIJSEHOLI) HIN'Tg, 

the proper flue brush as far as you can reach cott-" 
venientlv. If this is done regularly, the range will only 
need a thorough cleaning once in ten days or a fortnight, 
according to the amount of use it gets. The proper 
way to clean it is this: Having removed all the asli, <kc., 
from the ashpan, firebox, and hearth draw out all the 
dampers, lift out the highest soot^door of the flues, 
and sweep through this opening with the flue brush as 
high as you can possibly reach ; next sweep each Hue in 
turn, only uncovering each as you sweep it, to save soot 
from flaring about. Take away the soot from the lowest 
door with a shovel, and also brush all soot carefully 
away from the top of the stove, of the oven, ot the 
boiler, and the back of the fireplace, sweeping out every 
ledge and corner in wliich it can have lodged, as well as 
the oven itself. If very greasy (which it should not be 
if properly kept), wasn it either with hot soda and 
water, or rub it well all over with a cloth dipped in 
turpentine before blackleading it. Wash the tiles with 
hot soapsuds, drying them well, and whitening the 
hearth as you would stone steps. Some cooks prefer 
cleaning their stoves after the cooking is over, in which 
case they may be recommended to try " enameline, " as, 
unlike biacklead (which must be put on when the stove 
is cool), this can be applied auite well to hot metal. The 
oven should be dusted out daily, being well rubbed over 
at the weekly or fortnightly clean with a cloth wrung 
out of hot water. The oven shelves also should be at 
this time well washed in strong, hot soda and water to 
remove all grease. N.B. — All grease dropped on the 
hot-plate or the gas stove should be at once washed off 
with a cloth wrung out of hot water. It is to neglect 
of this rule that we owe a good half of the "odious 
kitchen savours" which are put down to the range, but 
are, in truth, due to the cook's carelessness and untidi- 
ness. Another cause of smell is the cooking of vege- 
tables, such as cabbage, cauliflowers &c. A simple 
remedy for this, civen me by a well-known chef, is to 
put a piece of charcoal, or a piece of deeply-toasted 
bread, in the water with the vegetable. (If the wat«r 
in which these vegetables are cooked is not wanted for 
a foundation for vegetable pur^e, for which, by the way, 
it is very useful — if soda has not been put with 
it — it should never be poured down the sink, but 
straight into the drain, or, failing this, on to the garden 
mould.) Vinegar, if sprinkled on the stove, wm abo 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



THE OFFICBS, 88 

destroy the sickening smell of burnt milk, sauce, &c., 
and a cup of it stood on the stove removes the odour 
of cooking onions. But the two points for keeping the 
atmosphere of a kitchen sweet are cleanliness and 
thorough ventilation. A cook should always remember 
that smell ascends, therefore, she should keep her 
kitchen door closed whilst airing her kitchen^ or the cold 
air coming in through the window. <fec., will drive all 
the kitchen odours right through tne house. (It is for 
this reason so many people advocate the kitchen being 
on the top floor of the house.) By the way. if fat catches 
in the pan, as sometimes happens, put some raw potato 
OF sliced onion in the fat, and sprinkle the stove with 
vinegar ; this neutralises the smell. 

To clean a gas stove, remove the bars from the top, 
wash them in very hot soda and water, then blacklead 
both them and the gas rings. Cleanse and brush up 
all the brass and steel work, burnishing the latter, and 
well cleanse the oven shelves with hot water and soda, 
rubbing up the enamelled parts with a flannel dipped 
in salt. It is a wise plan for the mistress, if she does 
not herself know how the ran^e and gas stove should 
be cleansed, to get a workman in from the maker's, and 
get him to teach the cook thoroughly how they are to 
be cleaned. 

Remember that one frequent cause for the coldness of 
the bath water, such a constant source of friction, is 
the sooty condition of the flues. So when trouole of 
this kind arises, see for yourself that the damper has 
been really pulled out properly, and, next, that tne flues 
are perfectly clean, and then (but not till then) send 
for tiie workman to investigate the trouble, which, in 
that case, may be due to the choking of the pipes from 
the hardness, or chalkiness, of the water, and would be 
a source of actual danger. 

Another point is the boiler, and this needs attention, 
for any acident to this mostly means a bad accident, 
or, at the least, a great deal of inconvenience. It should 
be cleaned out at regular intervals, the supply of water 
should be attended to, and, if by any cause this is out 
off, the kitchen fire must be at once put out imtil the 
trouble has been rectified. Failing this, there will 
pretty certainly be an explosion, as the boiler will Durst. 
The Eagle Range Company have brought out a small 
vent, which can be affixed to the boiler, which, on the 
least strain from extra steam, flies out, relieves the 
G 2 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



84 SOtJSESOLD HINTS. 

boiler, and saves explosion. This should be on every 
boiler. 

It cannot be too strongly enforced on cook and 
kitchenmaid alike that the only method of keeping a 
kitchen in good order is to clean as you go along/ If, 
when done with, the pots are at once half-filled witxi hot 
water and a morsel of soda, they can stand till it is con- 
venient to rinse and clean them, and will be little or 
no trouble to clean then. (If milk, porridge, sweets, 
&c., have been cooked in the pan, fill it with cold water, 
to throw them off the boil, as these continue to cook 
after being lifted off the fire, so that the addition of 
hot water would make them burn. If, by any accident, 
anything should have burnt in the pan, fill the latter 
with cold water and a knob of soda, and let it boil (for 
an hour at the side of the stove ; then scrub it out 
with a saucepan brush). A list of kitchen requisites 
will be given at the end of this chapter, so no more need 
be said here on the subject, save that it is very false 
economy to stint a cook, especially a single-handed one, 
in the matter of tools. She is but human, and. like the 
rest of us, finds it far easier to serve a person who con- 
siders her and tries to save her all she can, than one 
whom she believes (however wrongly) to be trying to 
screw the uttermost farthing out of her. I speak from 
the experience of years, and can honestly say that, to put 
it on the lowest grounds, kindness and consideration 
pay, whilst the difference between a friendly, willing 
servant, and a grudging, suspicious one, hardly needs 
remarking. 

On this point a word or two may be said respecting 
the ordering of dinner, &c. A mistress should always 
have a stated time for ordering dinner, giving out 
stores, &c., by which time the cook and her kitchen 
should alike be tidy. Where the lady is her own house- 
keeper, the cook should be prepared with a list of any 
articles needed for the day's use, and should have any 
remains of the previous day's food tidily displayed, to 
enable the mistress to use them up in the day's menu. 
It is always well to be a day or so in advance witli your 
orders, as this saves any risk of disapp<>intment with 
the tradesman. Where, however, as aavised in another 
chapter, the fishmonger and greengrocer send in their 
daily price lists, a little margin must be allowed to 
enable the housekeeper to avail herself of the chances 
of the day's supply. Attention to this point has a 



d by Google 



THE OFFICES. 85 

marked effect in reducing both these bills. A con- 
venient plan, and one which, moreover, saves mistress 
and maid alike from dropping into a culinary groove, 
is to have a menu book, and to write down each day the 
day's meals, both in dining-room and kitchen, and, of 
course, nursery. Now, in ordering meals, especially in 
the dining-room, a mistress should always study her 
intended menu carefully, not only to secure dainty and 
well-served dishes in their correct sequence (which, of 
course, require due consideration), but also how, as far 
as possible to save her cook. The time each dish will 
require, roughly, to prepare, as well as how they are 
to be cooked ; so many roasted, stewed, or baked ; and 
then calculate your pots and pans and oven accommo- 
dation accordingly. A very dainty little dinner, good 
enough for anyone, can be easily prepared, single-handed, 
by a cook, who would (and justly) complain of the trouble 
involved by an apparently much plainer one. For 
instance, boiled turbot and hollandaise sauce ; roast leg 
of mutton ; duckling and green peas ; with baked apricot 
tart, will probably involve more grumbling than sole au 
gratin; casserole of chicken, broiled fillets of beef a la 
russe ; sardines a la diable; and an ico; because so much 
of the latter dinner can be prepared beforehand, and 
the cooking of the resb involves no interference in the 
use of the cooking media. 

The next place to consider is the scullery. This, like 
the kitchen, should be light and well ventilated, and, 
like it, should have a tiled or flagged floor, or, failing 
this, be covered in the same way with a strong, self- 
coloured linoleum, which should be wiped over daily 
with a damp cloth well dried, and rubbed up with 
a little furniture polish, or turpentine and beeswax, as 
treated thus it is easy to clean and keep in gooa con- 
dition. There should be a good sink, preferably of 
Doulton ware, as this is easiest to clean and keep in 
good order. If it is a leaden one, to clean it. mix to- 
gether a pennyworth each of fuller's earth, soft soap, 
and pearlash, thoroughly, with a quart of boiling water, 
and bottle it. Wash down daily with a flannel dipped in 
this, then rinse thoroughly. For ordinary sinks, a 
thorough scrubbing with hot water and soda, then rins- 
ing, first with hot water and then with cold water, 
answers admirabljr. Weekly, loz. of permanganate of 
potash dissolved m three pints of boiling water should 
be poured down every sink, bath pipe, lavatory pipe, &c.^ 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



86 HOdSEHOLD HINTS. 

both inside and outside the house, the drains being 
flushed two or three times a week besides, with hot soda 
water ; this treatment should be daily for sinks, the first 
flushing being supplemented by a second of boiling water, 
to dissolve the soap which will form inside the pipe from 
a combination of the soda and grease, which, if left in, 
would speedily choke the pipe. It is well to observe here 
that the waste pipe from a sink should go through the 
scullery wall, opening into the air about 12 inches above 
the gully trap leading into the drain, as this prevents 
any chance of the smell blowing back into the house. 
But, remember, after throwing any dirty or evil-smelling 
water down the sink, to let the tap run for two or three 
minutes, full strength, tot flush it thoroughly. Besides 
the sink, there should be a strong, though small, table, 
two or three shelvas, to hold crocks, extra pots, &c., 
and a pot stand. This last, though it should be indis- 
pensable in every well-found house, is not nearly so 
common as it should be. It consists of an iron frame- 
work, graduated to fit the various pots, which can be 
left reversed on it. exposed to the air, the lids beinc: 
arranged on a shelf above. This keeps the pots in ex- 
cellent condition, and saves any chance of their acquiring 
a musty flavour, which they will do if left standing 
covered up. 

One more article most essential in a scullery is a 
galvanfsed pail, for the accommodation of any refuse, 
&c., and this pail should certainly have a lid to prevent 
damp, which would cause an unpleasant smell. Whilst 
on the subject of refus«^, it is well to observe that no 
animal or vegetable refuse should, under any circum- 
stances, be placed in the ashbin or the dusthole. whether 
the former be the two-handled, round, galvanised bins 
on wheels recommended by the sanitary authorities, or 
the ordinary dusthole fixture, in some wall near the 
kitchen. The only things allowed into either of theso 
should be the sifted ashes, hopelessly-broken glass or 
crockery, old tins, and such like, but. under no circum- 
stances, anv liquid of any kind. Tea leaves should be 
rinsed, used for sweeping carpets, then dried and burnt. 
All bones which have been used for soup, and whose 
goodness has been presumably extracted, should be 
washed .dried, and then may be thrown into the dust- 
bin. Vegetable strippings are the most diflScult to dis- 
i^ose of. as most cooks forget to dry them, and then 
throw thein on to the fiye \n ^ r^aas s^t son\e popvepiept 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



THE OFFICES. 87 

season, when they produce a horrible smell and a most 
disgusting mess in the range, the fire not being suf- 
ficiently strong to consume them entirely. The proper 
way is to dry small quantities of vegetable matter at a 
time under the fire, after which they can be burnt with 
impunity. (Few cooks, by the way, know how good 
dried potato parings and dried orange skins are for keep- 
ing in and reviving a fire.) A very simple way of testing 
the condition of drains is to pour down the pipe of th*^ 
highest sink, or w.c, either two tablespoonfuls of the 
Sanitas soluble oil. or loz. of oil of peppermint dissolved 
in three gallons of hot water and if there be a leak or 
defect an.vwhere the smell will be apparent at the faulty 
place, and should be at once attenaed to. Remember 
that diphtheria, scarlet fever, typhoid, &o., are all, pri- 
marily, drain poisons. 

One of the great occupations of a scuUerymaid is 
dish and pot washing. Now, though this is, admittedly, 
not a pleasant occupation, it need not be the dirty, 
messy work it so frequently is. A sink basket, either 
plain or enamelled, should alwavs fit over the whole of 
the sink opening. Next, see that you have a eood supplv 
of boiling water and soda, scrape all the refuse, &c., off 
the plates, and put them neatly together; wash such 
spoons, forks, and knives as have to be washed in the 
soullerv, first, and set them aside for cleaning ; next take 
the china, washing the cleanest things first in plenty of 
hot soapsuds and water, then rinse each separately and 
thoroughly in verv hot, clean water, plflcinc: enoh article, 
when rinsed, in the plate-rack till perfectly dry; if you 
have no plate-rack, drsin thoroughly, and rub up with 
a dry, clean towel. If cold water and wet cloths are 
used, the china will never polish properly. Greasy 
plates should be wiped carefulV with paper (this being 
thpn burnt) before they are washed. 

Stewpans and saucepans should be carefully washed 
in plentv of boiling water, in which you have dissolved 
some soda, washing the saucepans thoroughlv inside and 
aut. Keep a saucer wi^^h a small quantity of silver sand 
beside the sink, and, after washing the saucepans, soap 
a dishcloth, dip it in the sand, and thoroughly scour the 
inside of the saucepan, to remove all stains ; then rinse 
well in plf»nty of warm water, and dry perfectly before 
putting them away. Frying-pans may be cleaned in 
exactly the same way, but an omelet^-pan should never 
te torched with water. After use, the fat should be at 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 



once poured out of it, and the pan thoroughly rubbed 
with paper till the paper comes away quite clean. If. 
by any accident, it should have been burnt or stained, 
put it on the fire with a little fat in it, pouring this off 
when dissolved, then rub it well inside with a piece r>f 
paper dipped in salt, after which rub it well with tresli 
pieces of paper till these come away quite clean. The 
best way of cleaning a stained enamel saucepan is, after 
well washing it, to scour it with a flannel dipped in salt 
and crushed eggshells. 

Remember that, after use. all tea, dish, or glass cloths 
should be scalded out, well rinsed, and dried on a small 
clothes-horse, in the open air if possible, or, failing this, 
before a good fire. As soon as tney are dry, which they 
will be very soon, fold them up and put them away in a 
drawer till wanted. This takes but two or three 
minutes, and ensures a good supply of clean, dry 
cloths. 

Kitchen Requisites. 



One set of scales. 

One large fish kettle. 

One smaller fish kettle and 

fryer. 
One or two pridirons. 
One iron boiler for hams. &c. 
Four to six seamless steel or 

planished tin stewpans. 
Two small tin saucepans for 

milk. &c. 
One frying basket to fit large 

stewpan. 
Three large iron saucepans, and 

one steamer to fit. 
One large frying pan. 
One small frying pan. 
One omelet frying pan. 
One preserving pan. 
One colander. 
One gravy strainer. 
One egg slice. 
One fish slice. 
One toaster. 
One large double roasting tin 

to fit oven. 
Two baking or Yorkshire pud- 
diner tins. 
Two iron spoons. 
One cook's knife. 
One set of cutters. 
One set of skewers. 
Two larding needles. 
One steel. 



One mincer. 

One bread grater. 

One spice box and nutmeg- 
grater. 

One hand bowl. 

Two zinc pails. 

One zinc bath or pan. 

One fender and fire irons. 

One coai scuttle. 

Two candlesticks. 

One coffee pot. 

One large iron kettle. 

One small tin kettle. 

One flour dredger. 

One pepper dredger. 

One susar dredger. 

One funnel. 

One mustard-pot. 

Moulds various to taste. 

One pastry board and roller (a 
marble s'ab if possible). 

One chopping-board and chop- 
per. 

One meat saw. 

One tub. 

One small towel horse. 

One set puddinor dishes. 

One set pie dishes. 

Two to four china basins, lipned. 

Two to four china basins, plain. 

One bread nan. 

One flour tub. 

One knifeboard. 



d by Google 



THE OFFICES. 



Qne good clock. 

One set of jugs. 

One salt box. 

One pestle and mortar, marblr 

or wedgewood. 
One dinner set, kitchen. 
One tea set, kitchen. 
One teapot. 
One or two good lamps, if no 

gas. 
One soft broom. 
One hard broom. 
One yard broom. 



One dust p^ and brush. 
One sink brush and sink tidy. 
One set blacklead brushes. 
One cinder sifter. 
One set boot brushes. 
One pot stand. 
One plate rack. 
One kitchen table. 
One dishing-up table. 
Chairs as required. 
One refrigerator. 
One set of dish covers. 
Two trays. 



Of course, this is not a full list, and moulds have been 
purposely omitted. The ordinary idea seems to be 
twelve pattypans, one or two cake tins, one hot pot tin, 
one jelly and one Charlotte mould. To these may be 
added border, cutlet, dariole, and jelly moulds, ad lib., 
as your cook's wants grow. (A fresh set of moulds, or 
some new and^ labour-saving device, is always a welcome 
and encouraging surprise to a willing cook, who fully 
appreciates any mark of attention on her mistress's part.) 
A Dover egg-beater, fruit-stoners, apple-corers, potato- 
si icers, paring-knives, a tamis-pressoir (for sauces, purees, 
&c.), a bain-marie, pastry-racks, vegetable-cutters, a 
coffee-mill, fireproof china dishes, such as cocntteSy soufflo 
dishes, casseroles. &c., are all useful addenda, and mav 
be added gradually to suit your cook's convenience and 
your own purse. A sink-tidy and sink-brush should be a 
sine gud non in every sink. 



d by Google 



CHAPTEE VII. 
VAEIOUS KECIPES, &c. 

Baths, to Clean. — ^Make a good lather of hot soap and 
water in the bath, then scour the sides well (being careful 
to rub only ane way) with the finest emery paper. 
Directly the dirt is removed and the paint shows, stop 
rubbing the place, or you will destroy the japanning, 
rinse well, and dry carefully with an old, soft cloth. 

Bottles, to Clean. — ^Pour into any stained decanter, 
carafe, &c., one part salt to two parts vinegar, with a 
little soda ; shake this well round tne glass till the latter 
is clean, then rinse it well in plentj^ of oold water, and 
turn it upside down to drain. This may be used over 
and over again. 

Brushes, to Wash. — Have ready two basins half-filled 
with water, acidulated with lemon juice, or white 
vinegar, one boiling, in which you have dissolved a 
small piece of soda, the other as cold as you can get it. 
(If the brushes are very greasy, add a spoonful of 
Scrubb's Cloudy Ammonia to the boiling water.) 
Now immerse the bristles, and shake them in the soda 
and water till clean; then at once repeat the process 
in the cold water, after which dry, in the open if possible. 
Mind the backs, whatever they are. are never wetted. 
Dry flour or fuller's earth rubbed thickly into the 
bristles, and then thoroughly brushed out, will dry- 
clean the brushes well. A very little painters' polish 
applied thinly and well leathered off is a great improve- 
ment to wooden-backed brushes. 

Butter, to Preserve. — ^Well wash the butter, which 
should be quite fresh, then work thoroughly into it 2oz. 
of salt, and rather more than half a teaspoonful of cane 
loftf sugar, to e^ich pound of butter j be paref ul to ^et tb^ 



d by Google 



VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. 91 

salt well through it all. When the huttei* is cool, press 
it into earthenware crocks, with lids to them (those 
holding about 71b. are most convenient), being careful 
to ram the butter well home, and to leave no spaces for 
the air to get in down the sides, which would infallibly 
turn it. Now cover with a layer of the salt and sugar as 
used in preserving the butter, then with a muslin wrung 
out of well-salted water, and, lastly, the lid fixed on 
tightly; this muslin should be well wetted with salt 
and water, and replaced each time butter is taken out 
of the crock. This butter needs washing before "use if 
the salt taste is objected to. Abroad, butter is stored 
in the following way for cooking purposes, and, if care- 
fully done, will keep in good condition for a long time. 
Buy, say, 301b. of good fresh butter, and put it in a kettle 
or pan with about four cloves, two bayleavee, and two 
onions, and leave it over a slack fire to simmer very 
gently for at least three hours, being careful it nev«r 
boils. Do not skim it. Now draw it off the fire, and 
let it stand for an hour, after which skim off the top 
froth, &c., very carefully, and pour the butter slowly 
into large stoneware jars or crocks, without letting miy 
of the sediment, which will be found at the bottom of 
the kettle, get into the crocks. Then place theSe jars 
in a cold, dark cellar, and next day, when the contents 
are firm, cover them down tightly with thick white 
paper, and place a slate or plate over the top. Keep 
these in the cool cellar, onlv taking out as much as may 
be wanted for the day's cooking, for light and too much 
air will cause it to deteriorate. This is used for the most 
delicate cookery abroad. A simpler method is to place 
the butter in a large crock or pan, and stand this in a 
larger pan. containing boiling water, and let it all cook 
over a moderate fire for two hours. Remove the scum, 
and pour the melted butter into stone jars, as before, 
keeping back anv sediment. Tie the jars down, when 
thp butter is cold and hard, with paper, as above, or with 
softened bladders. The rest of the butter, sediment. 
&c., may be mixed with a little more fresh butter, and 
allowed to cook very slowly and gently till it assumes 
a brownish tint, when it may be strained through a sieve 
into stone jars, and covered down as before. This is 
excellent for household purposes, though not. of course, 
for delicate white sauces. Butter melted and stored as 
above will keep good for a year. To keep butter fresh 
from day tq dfiy. wlie^ the butter \\s^a just bee^ ipa^e, 

• 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



92 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

place it in an earthenware basin, and cover it thoroughly, 
1 or 2 inches deep, with fresh filtered water, and place 
the basin in a cold place, like a cellar, &c. Next morn- 
ing pour off the water, and cut the butter up into pieces 
the size of a small apple; now well wash your hands in 
cold water, and well work each piece of butter between 
your hands, pressing it well every way to get out an-y 
butter-milk that may be still in it. Then make up each 
piece into the shape of an egg, and drop each into an 
earthenware pan full of cold water, covering it well 
down, and storing it in the coolest place you can lini. 
The water must be changed every dav. the butter being 
worked up, as above, once or twice a week. The Nor- 
mandy butter merchants preserve butter this way all 
through the winter, selling it as fresh during the dead 
season. 

Butter, to Test. — ^Put a piece of butter the size of a 
chestnut into an iron spoon, and hold it over a spirit 
stove, stirring it well with a wooden splinter as it melts 
and begins to boil; butter boils with little noise, bat 
a great deal of foam ; margarine and "renovated" butter 
has little or no foam, and sputters and boils very noisilv 
like grease and water. This is the recognised test of the 
U.S.A. Department of Agriculture. 

Chamois Leathery to TVa^h. — ^Wash in plenty of warm, 
but not hot, soapsuds, then rinse in plenty of clean, 
warm water, till every atom of soap is gone ; then gently 
wring (or run it through a wringer) till as dry as you can 
get it, and hang out to dry at once. Rub it well, and 
pull it out constantly whilst drying to keep it in shape 
and prevent its hardening. Then, if necessary, iron with 
a cool iron at the last. If properly treated, this leathar 
will be as soft as new. 

EggSy to Preserve. — Make a solution of one part watar- 
glass (silicate of soda) to sixteen parts of water, pack 
the eggs, which must be perfectly fresh and uninjured 
in a crock, and pour this solution over them, covering 
them well with the solution. Preserved in this way, 
eggs keep well for months, and can be used for any 
purpose for which fresh eggs are required. It is said 
that, before plain boiling, eggs thus prepared should 
be pricked at one end first. 

Put 31b. of quicklime, ^Ib. of salt, 

and loz. of cream of tartar into a jar, and 
pour on to it one and a half gallons of absolutely 
foiling i^c^t^r; when this is cold lay in the eggs carcf 



d by Google 



VARIOITS RECIPES, kc. 93 

fully (they should be new laid), being careful to see that 
they are well covered. Of course, the solution car be 
increased as required, only keeping to these proportions. 

; to Test. — Make a strong brine by (£ssolying 

2oz. kitchen salt to the pint of water ; immerse the eggs 
in this. An egg laid the same day at once sinks to the 
bottom ; a day-old egg sinks also, but not quite to the 
bottom ; a three-days' egg will float just under the sur- 
face ; an older egg floats just on or above the surface : 
whilst the older the egg the higher it rises in the 
water. 

Eiderdowns, to Wash. — ^These may be washed precisely 
like flannel or blankets. Use just tepid water, with 
ammonia in it, and use salted or ammoniated water for 
the last rinsing to bring up the colour. They must be 
dried in the open, in a good wind, shaking and rubbing 
them frequently to prevent the down clotting and felt- 
ing. The secret of cleansing these successfully lies in 
the drying. 

Footwarmers. — The following mixture, if placed in a 
" warmer," then immersed in boiling or very hot water 
till the mixture is fluid, will keep hot for ten to twelve 
hours, and may be used over and over again. The mix- 
ture is lib. of acetate of soda and 101b. of hyposulphite 
of soda. Use enough to fill the warmer. 

Frozen Meat, to Thaw. — Place the meat in a warm 
room over night, or lay it for a few hours in cold water, 
the latter plan being the best. The ice which forms on 
the surface aa it thaws is easily removed. If cooked be- 
fore it is entirely thawed it will be tough. Meat once 
frozen should not be allowed to thaw until just before 
cooking. In towns, good butchers will always thaw 
foreign meat for their regular customers, but itmust 
then be used at once, as it does not keep in good con- 
dition long after thawing. 

Filters, dkc. — ^These need regular and thorough cleansing 
at stated intervals, or they are almost worse than no 
filter at all. Charcoal filters ©si)ecially need attention. 
When buying a filter, always insist on directions for its 
management, and see that these are attended to metho- 
dically. A rough and ready, but effective, filter may be 
made thus: Fill the hole in the bottom of a well-washed 
ordinary flower-pot with a perfectly clean sponge, and 
three parts fill the pot with alternate layers of sand, 
charcoal, and small, well-washed i>ebbles; then place 
it on a suitable utensil for the water to filter into. 



d by Google 



&4 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

It is well to know, should the bath water be muddy and 
unfit for use, that it can be cleared by adding to it a full 
spoonful of powdered alum, and letting it stand for a 
few hours, when the dirt. «fec., will have sunk to th© 
bottom, and the clear water can be poured off for use. 
A teaspoonful of alum will clear four gallons of water. 
A good test of the condition of a filter is to add a table- 
spoonful of "Condy's fluid" to about a gallon of water, 
and pour this into ttie filter. If, after standing some time, 
when you draw off the water it is still tinged with pink as 
it was at first, the filter is useless; but if the water 
comes out with a j^ellow or brownish tinge, the filter 
is actually harmful in itself, and has added organic im- 
purity to the water. Nor is this so rare as housewives 
fancy! If the filter, however, is acting properly, the 
water will come out clear, colourless, and tasteless. 

Frozen Pipes, Boilers, &o. — The following domestic 
hints are by R. W. Boyd, author of "The ABC of a 
Healthy House" (105, New Bond-street), on "How to 
Keep out Frost and its Troublesome Consequences'^' : 

1. Object. — ^The object of the following hints is : First, 
to provide against great cold ; and, second to deal wisely 
with the water service supposing it to be affected by 
frost, and thus to minimise the trouble and expense of 
burst pipes, and the inconvenience of having no water in 
the house • at such times the want of a proper water 
supply adds enormously to risk from fire. 

2. Main Pipes. — ^The water mains leading to the house 
should be 3 feet under ground — ^this is usually the busi- 
ness of the water company. 

3. Branch Main. — Now comes a weak point, viz., the 
supply pipe, which, if in town, has sometimes to cross 
an area. This pipe should be affixed to a wall, and 
should be boxed up with a large bulk of non-conducting 
waterproof material at each point accessible to cold; 
this applies to cisterns as well as to pipes. 

4. Indoor Mains. — ^When inside the house the pipes 
should be "run" in warm positions, and must be eitner 
emptied (a very crude plan) or kept above freezing point. 

6. Empty Pipes. — ^Ir emptied, care must be taken that 
every drop of water is really run out. 

6. Pipes Charged. — ^Thc proper way, however, is to 
keep the house warm enough to exclude frost, and this is 
f^r more economical than letting in the frost, wiih all 
its subsequent mischief, heavy expense for repairs and 
redecoration^ &o. 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



VAWdufe RteCtPteS, Ac. 96 

7. Empty Souse. — ^An empty house is the one hkely 
to suffer from frost. 

8. Fosition of Cisterns, — ^Water-supply pipes and 
cisterns should be indoors, but if outsiae they will need 
special means to keep out frost. A cistern outside can 
be kept above freezing point by heat communicated from 
a gas-jet placed inside the house. In w.c.'s, and where 
pipes and cisterns are necessarily exposed to cold^ it is 
well to have a jet of gas or a lamp kept burning during 
frost. 

9. Tap Left Open, — As running water seldom freezes, 
it is sometimes useful to leave a tap over a sink partially 
open, so that water continues to flow. 

10. Burst Pipes. — ^Water in freezing expands,^ and 
often breaks the pipe; but the injury is only evident 
when the thaw comes and the water again runs. Any 
pipe or cistern suspected of containing ice must_ be 
watched, if possible, by an expert, else when a thaw 
comes a flood may follow, causing great trouble. This 
applies with special force to pipes at the top of the house. 

11. Stop-cock. — If a leak occurs anywhere it is well 
at once to shut the main stop-cock, so as to prevent 
a flood. The position of this main cock must always be 
borne in mind, as also the fact that boilers in use will 
not be safe for long without a supply of water. 

12. Boilers. — ^During every hard frost kitchen and 
other boilers burst and cause fat^l accidents and other 
trouble, therefore these should be looked to as a first 
consideration. Boilers should be kept at work during 
hard frost, because by so doing you prevent the forma- 
tion of ice in the pipes connected with them, while you 
also keep the cold out of adjacent parts of the house. 

13. Test for Boilers. — If water runs freely at the " hot" 
taps all is well, but if these taps fail to run, the only 
safe way is to put out the fire and call in a competent 
man to inspect. 

14. Hot-water Pipes. — ^Never allow hot-water pipes or 
the pipes that feed them to be where they can "freeze." 
If once the frost gets hold of the hot-water pipes they 
burst and become useless — perhaps for weeks, and just 
at the time when they should be specially useful. 

15. Dday with Bepairs. — During and after a frost it 
often happens that it is simply impossible to get the 
pipes repaired for weeks. The household suffers accord- 
ingly — water has to be fetched from a distance, &c. 



d by Google 



96 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

Hence the importance of doing all that is possible to 
prevent accidents, although sometimes a flexible tube 
or other alternative may be usefully employed. 

16. Besponsibility. — Some one person should be re- 
sponsible for the water services, and should know whom 
to call in on an emergency. Further, every October the 
pipes should be looked over, so as to be prepared for 
frost. 

Furniture Cream. — Shred finely loz. of Castile soap 
and 2oz. of beeswax into a jar with half a pint of spring 
water, and set this jar in a moderate oven until its 
contents are perfectly dissolved. When quite cold mix 
into it half a pint of spirits of turpentine and two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar, stirring these well in. This cream 
should be stirred occasionally whilst in the oven. 

Melt together over a slow fire 2oz. of yellow 

soap and lib. of beeswax, and when thoroughly dis- 
solved add a quart of spirits of turpentine very care- 
fully ; then stir in one quart of boiling water very gradu- 
ally till the mixture is quite oold. 

Mix together 3oz. of beeswax, loz. of white 

wax, loz. of curd soap, one pint of turpentine, and when 
the mixture is thoroughly dissolved and cold add a pint 
of soft, boiled water. Shake the bottle frequently till 
the wax is all dissolved, and do not use it for rorty- 
eight hours after making. 

Or, boil one pennyworth of Castile soap in 

half a pint of soft water till reduced to half, mix one 
pennyworth each of beeswax and white wax in a quartern 
of turpentine, and then pour the boiling soap and water 
on to it. Bottle^ and cork dosely; then shake till the 
mixture turns quite white, when it is ready for use. 

Put into a bottle half a pint of turpentine, 

one gill of meth;^lated spirits, half a pint of linseed oil. 
and one gill of vinegar ; shake these all well together till 
thoroughly blended, and remember always to shake it 
before use. This is particularly good for dark wood, 
especially mahogany. A version of this is the old- 
fashioned mixture of linseed oil and vinegar, which 
should be kept in a well-corked bottle and thoroughly 
shaken before use. It is not altogether easy to give the 
exact quantities for this mixture, as different woods 
require rather different proportions. This, however, 
experience soon teaches. For general purposes equal 
parts answer well. The best plan is to use this latter 



d by Google 



YAEIOUS RECIPES, &c. 97 

frequently, applying the previous recipe at the regular 
cleaning times, as the methylated spirit and the vinegar 
remove grease and smears, and the whole preparation 
is a good remedy against worm-eaten furniture. 

JapanesBy to Polish. — To one pint of linseed 

oil add one pint of cold, strong tea, the whites of two 
eggs, and 2oz. of spirits of salt; mix this all well 
together, and pour into a bottle, shaking this well up 
each time before use. Make a pad of soft linen, pour a few 
drops of the mixture on this, and rub the furniture well 
up with it, finishing the polishing with an old silk hand- 
kerchief. In Japan fine rice paper is used for this last 
polishing. 

Oak, to Clean. — ^Wash the oak carefully with 

warm ale, and when dry rub up with soft rags moistened 
with paraffin. Or^ if thoroughly clean, any of the pre- 
viously-given furniture creams will do. 

— Or, mix together one pint of methylated 

spirits and lOoz. of vinegar, shake these up well, then 
add 5oz. each of turps, and boiled linseed oil, rubbing it 
well in, and finally polishing with a clean, dry flannel. 

7 Oldi to Bevive. — Put into a bottle half a pint 

each of olive oil, rectified oil of amber, spirits of turps., 
adding, when these are well mixed ioz. each of lavender 
and tincture of alkanet root. Keep in a tightly-stop- 
pered bottle ; this should be rubbed on well with cotton 
rags and then wiped dry; or^ put into a pan 2oz. of 
yellow wax, half a pint of boiled linseed oil, and Ioz. 
of boiled alkanet root ; stand this in the bain-marie till 
the wax is all melted and the whole is well coloured with 
the alkanet^ then strain it, and, when cool, add a gill 
each of spirits of turpentine and vinegar ; mix well and 
use. Apply on a bit of flannel, and rub sharply, always 
keeping to the way of the grain ; finish with a clean 
flannel, and, lastly, with an old silk handkerchief. This 
polish is specially good for rosewood, though it is also 
very useful for dark mahogany or walnut wood. 
One point with regard to furniture polish can- 
not be too strongly enforced, and that is that 
success in this matter depends far more on 
the work than the furniture polish put on it. You 
cannot apply the latter too thinly if a good gloss is to 
be obtained. The well-known "eggshell gloss" so 
admired on well-kept Chippendale and other such like 
furniture, was almost entirely obtained by "elbow 
grease" regularly and steadily applied. If furniture 
H 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



98 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

polish is put on thickly, it clogs, smears, and inevitably 
attracts the dust, therefore requiring twice as mucn 
labour, if servants but knew it. 

Worm-eaten. — This is somewhat troublesome 

to remedy at home, so, unless one is prepared to bestow 
a good deal of pains on the work, it is better to hand 
the wood affected over to an experienced cabinet-maker. 
But, if necessary to be done at home, use a very small 
oilcan, such as is used for bicycles, typewriters, &c., and 
fill each individual hole up carefully with oil. The 
worms loathe this grease, and, if sufficient is not forced 
in, to thoroughly flood them, they will work their way 
out at the other end. When this is done, wipe the 
surface lightly, and then paint it over with best copal 
or Spanish varnish, which is colourless, and, if carefimy 
donOj is successful ; but it requires great pains. 

; — — Buhl. — The difficulty about cleansing this is 

that it is not so much a case of dirt as of the perishing 
through lapse of time, of the transparent lacquer origin- 
ally applied to the brasswork, in consequence of which 
the latter has become oxidised by the air, damp, or, 
possibly, fog. Only the very tenderest treatment must 
be used, or some of the inlaid brasswork will get dis- 
lodged, and this is extremely troublesome to replace. 
So, if the cabinet or other ^ieoe of furniture is really 
valuable, it is best to send it to an expert. If, how- 
ever, it must be cleaned at home, wash it very carefully, 
dami)ing it as little as possible; dry well, and then rub 
up with a little precipitated whiting. 

Fitch Pine. — This, if airty, may be well 

washed with Sunlight soap and water, being careful not 
to make it wetter than you can help, and dry it as 
quickly as possible; after this polish well with linseed 
oil and vinegar. The great secret with pitch pine furni- 
ture is not to allow it to get dirty, because drastic 
remedies are very apt to result in destroying the polish. 

Bruised. — If by anv accident polished furni- 
ture has been dented or bruised, soak the damaged part 
well with warna water, then double a piece of brown 
paper five or six times, saturate this also with warm 
water and lay it over the bruise; then lightly pass a 
hot iron over it till the moisture has almost evaporated. 
This may require to be repeated. In very bad cases 
Boak the bruise well with warm water and hold a hot 
iron directly over, but not absolutely touching, it keep- 
ing the spot well damped for some minutes without 
lifting the iron. 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. 99 

• White Stains On. — ^These rather troublesome 

marks may be removed by holding a hot plate or hot 
iron over the spot, not exactly touching it, and then 
polishing it thoroughly with either the methylated 
spirit, &c., or the phdn oil and vinegar mixture given 
above. 

Liqueur, Lemonade, or Syrup Stained. — 



These stains, if fresh, may be removed with a little warm 
water and a soft cloth, afterwards polishing well with 
any cream to taste. If this fails, use a decoction of 
lukewarm coffee dregs^ rubbing this well in, then drying 
with a little, old, soft cambric, and finishing off with 
some polish. 

Panels, due, to Bender Practically Incom- 

hustible. — ^Paint these over two or three times with a 
strong solution of waterglass or silicate of soda. 

Old Oak, to Polish. — ^Boil two quarts of beer 

with loz. each of beeswax and of coarse^ moist su^ar 
until it is perfectly dissolved. Wash the rumiture with 
warm beer till every bit of grease, dust, Ac., is removed, 
bein£ very careful to clean the crevices, &o. Now apply 
the beer, beeswax, &o., with a large soft brush and let 
it dry on, then rub the surface well up with a dean, soft 
cloth, or a leather, till it is bright . 

Insect and Other Pests. — Of these the best thing to 
say is : Never have any 1 This, however, is a counsel of 
perfection, though far more may be done to obviate 
these nuisances by systematic cleanliness and tidiness 
than housewives appear to be aware of. In well-kept, 
cleanly houses, to which air and light are freely admitted 
to every part, such pests, even if existent, are reduced 
almost to a negligible quantity. If no crumbs, scraps, 
or litter are ever left about, for instance, mice, black 
beetles, ants, &c., are not attracted, in the first place, 
and if they do come should be ruthlessly hunted down at 
once, careful search being instantly made for the origin 
of the hordes. With antsi earwig, flies, and such like, 
there is always a nest somewhere in the neighbourhood, 
and this once discovered and destroyed, the plague is 
sensibly diminished, if not altogether cured. With mice 
and black beetles the great thing is to find out their 
point of entrance, and, having done so, to plaster up 
such cracks and crevices as strongly and completelv as 
possible. The following will give some idea of the best 
way of dealing individually with such troubles. 

Ants. — ^ThiB plague is imdeniably one of the most 
H 2 



367f^4B 



loo HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

troublesome and difficult to combat. All sorts of reme- 
dies have from time to time been advised: about the 
best one is to wash all the places where tney abound 
with a fairly strong solution of carliolio acid or strong 
carbolic soap. Water, in which tobacco or quassia chips 
have been infused, or in which bitter aloes, corrosive 
sublimate, or green vitriol has been dissolved : or water 
acidulatea with sulphuric acid, are each and all strongly 
recommended. Camphor, or a sponge saturated in 
creosote, is also said to prevent their infesting cup- 
boards. Other people recommend moist sponges dipped 
in sugar or treacle strewed about in their haunts and 
cleared out at stated intervals, when they should be 
washed out in boiling water. Others suggest traps 
made with jam pots half filled with sweetened beer; but 
tlio only real method of extermination is, as said before, 
to find out the nests, then place some quicklime on the 
moutli of this, and wash it in with boiling hot water. 
Another reniody is to dissolve camphor in spirits of 
wine, mix it with water, and pour this into the holes, 
whilst a strong infusion of tobacco is also recommended. 
Lord Avebury, the well-known authority on insects, is 
not very sanguine as to any infallible cure for these 
creatures, but mentions the remedies given above, 
together with the use of petroleum in the nests, and 
creosote, as ho says that these insects are especially 
averse to strong scents of any kind. The small red ants, 
so annoying in many kitchens, can be destroyed in the 
same way, out the great point is to find out and block 
up the entrances. 

Beetles. — These, with their relation the cockroach, 
invade town houses in such numbers that it is often a 
matter of difficulty to exterminate them. The first 
thing is, in the early spring, to examine all the walls and 
skirting boards of basements, kitchens, &c., and have 
these carefully plastered up. The damage these crea- 
tures will do to plaster in the neighbourhood of ranges, 
<&c., is little short of wonderful, as it is in such places 
they make their nests. Having prevented the entrance 
of any beetles from the outside, the next thing is to 
destroy those within your premises. The first point is 
strict cleanliness. Crumbs, scraps of all kinds, &c.j 



must be most carefully got rid of, and strict tidiness 

'Vch night before eoing to bed 

PVts of 

powdered borax and cocoa, should be strewed thickly 



be made the rule^ Each night before going to bed 



powdered borax, Keating's insecticide, or equal p^ 

' " 'e strewed t 

d by Google 



VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. 101 

about their haunts, these being carefully swept up next 
day, together with the beetles which will be found about, 
and burnt. Cucumber peel or fresh rhubarb leaves 
strewed about (smooth side down) are also effectual, and 
should be lifted each morning, and the insects found 
beneath thorn carefully burnt. The advantage of the 
above destroyers is that, though fatal to the insects, thoy 
are harmless to household pets. There are dozens of 
effectual beetle destroyers on the market, but the great 
secret with any or all of these really lies in the method 
of using them. Whatever insecticide you choose should 
be thickly scattered round the insects' haunts for a 
week, or until you notice a marked, if not entire, dis- 
appearance; then stop it for a week, after which again 
repeat the process twice more, with a week's interval in 
between. You will find the second lot much smaller 
than the first, whilst the third will consist almost 
entirely of tiny, just hatched young beetles. It is this 
point that is not always attended to sufficiently ; beetles 
increase rapidly and numerously, so that you may 
destroy the parents and yet leave a large supply of 
young ones to hatch out and repopulato your premises 
at intervals. A change of insecticide is to be advised, 
as, if one kind be persisted in, the creatures appear to 
become inured to it, and in some cases almost to thrive 
on it, in the end. This certainly is the case with moth. 

FleaSy &c, — For these the strictest cleanliness is neces- 
sary. In extreme cases the floors, wainscots, &c., of 
any room infected should be well scrubbed with water, 
to which chloride of lime has been added in the pro- 
portion of one tablespoonful of chloride of lime to a 
pailful of water, using with it the Chiswick Imperial soft 
soap. Of course, whoever uses this must not put their 
hands near it more than they can help. Infuse a good 
lump of camphor in a wine bottle of water till you obtain 
a strongly saturated infusion, and with this sprinkle the 
bedclothes, carpets, «fec., which, besides being refresh- 
ing, is also a deterrent. In hot climates the following 
may also be used for this: Dissolve ^oz. of camphor in 
a quart of water, add ^oz. tincture of myrrh, and shake 
well before use. Sponge with this, and sprinkle on bed- 
clothes, «&o. Needless to state, Keating's insecticide is 
useful in the same way. Other and more disagreeable 
bedroom pests require stringent methods. Directly 
their presence is suspected (and they may be accidentally 
introduced into the niost carefully-kept houses), great 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



102 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

attention must be paid to their extirpation, as they 
breed very fast. All the woodwork of the room should 
be carefully washed over with paraffin (of course, in 
daylight) the beds should be thoroughly examined and 
dusted, the mattresses being well brushed with a stiflP 
brusbu especially where buttoned down, while sheets of 
paraffin or turpentine-steeped brown paper should be 
laid under the mattresses and fastened under the uphol- 
stered furniture. If this is carefully carried out, and 
the beds, &c., inspected and treated as above every two 
or three days, the plague can be got under. It is well 
to remember that in new and not very well-built houses 
(such as are, unfortunately, only too common in these 
days) a great deal of the Norwegian pine used in build- 
ing is infested in this way, so this point should be 
carefully investigated. 

Flies. — ^This is of all pests one of the most exasperat- 
ing, though, like every other kind, it yields to careful 
tidiness and scrupulous cleanliness. Where flies abound, 
the window-sills and panes should be sponged with a 
strong solution of carbolic acid, applying this when the 
sun is shining and the flies are most numerous. The 
insects die or become unconscious in a very few minutes, 
when they should be swept up and burnt. Oil of 
sassafras, or a strong infusion of quassia used in the same 
way, will put flies to flight, though it does not actually 
destroy them. Where rooms become infested with 
flies, a good plan is to heat an old saucepan on the 
fire, close the windows of the infested room, place the 
hot pan in it on a couple of bricks, pour a cupful of 
carbolic acid into the pan, and run out at once, closing 
the door carefully. Let this stand for an hour or more 
before returning to ventilate the room. This may have 
to be repeated, but is, in the end, an unfailing remedy. 
Sulphur or sulphur pastilles may be used in the same 
way with the same effect, but the principal remedy 
is to clear away all rubbish and refuse heaps or stagnant 
water, if any such exist anywhere near the house. Flies 
lay their eggs chiefly along window cords, and in any 
dark crevic€«, so examine these and the backs of shut- 
ters, ifco. (where they congregate when young), and 
wash all these places well, either with paraffin, oil of 
sassafras, turpentine, or a strong solution of carbolic 
acid. It is easy to make fly papers in this way : Dissolve 
over gentle heat 6oz. of powdered resin in 2oz. of raw 
IjnseeS oil, t^hen, whilst warn;, stiy in thoroughly 2oz. of 



d by Google 



VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. 103 

honey. This may be spread on grease-proof paper with 
a stiflF brush, and placed about the kitchen &c. ; whilst 
pieces of thick twine dipped in this sticky substance 
may be hung from the chandeliers, &c., and will soon 
become covered with flies. They should then be flung 
into boiling water, the string cleansed, redipped in the 
mixture, and hung up again. 

Earwigs. — Houses covered with ivy and other creepers 
are often much troubled with this insect, and for this 
reason all the vegetation should be carefully fastened 
back from the window frames and sills, and a layer of 
insecticide spread on the latter thickly every evening; 
whilst vitriol or corrosive sublimate can be brushed 
over the window frames in extreme cases, though the 
worst of this is it injures the paint. Common petro- 
leum applied in the same way is also useful. Earwigs 
dislike light and strong smells, therefore the lighter 
the house the less chance of earwigs; whilst pieces of 
sponge filled with creosote or a strong solution of cam- 
phor placed about the window-sills and where they get 
m also have a deterrent effect; but, as with ants, the 
best way is to hunt for the nest, and destroy it by the 
methods given for ants' nests. 

Midges, Mosquitoes, <kc. — To sportsmen, and tourists 
in country places, these most persisent insects, mfdges 
or small mes, are a perfect torment, attacking wayfarers 
in clouds, and even following them for i>erhaps a mile 
or two. A good remedy for these is tobacco smoke, or, 
for non-smokers, try the following : Shake well together 
ioz. of pure carbolic acid, l^oz. spirits of lavender, 1 
drachm of oil of eucalyptus, and apply this freely to 
the collar of the coat or the tie, &o., but be careful it 
never touches the skin. (By the way, this mixture 
placed about sick rooms in small saucers will not only 
keep away flies, &c., but will also act as an excellent 
disinfectant.) Mosquitoes are, fortunately, not very 
common in this country, so that the mosquito curtains, 
so indispensable abroad, are almost unknown here. 
Where they do exist, the evaporation of a small quantity 
of carbolic acid in the i*oom is declared to prevent the 
incursions of these pests ; whilst a 5 per cent, solution of 
carbolic acid in water, if sponged over the exposed parts 
of the body before going to bed, is said to protect them 
almost infallibly from attack. Camphorated oil, vinegar 
and water, or a few drops of pure ammonia applied to 
insect bjtes of any kind, is considered a great soothej: 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



104 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

to the irritation they cause. To some people insect bites 
produce an amount of inflammation that is beyond even 
this treatment ; for such, try the following fomentation : 
Dissolve one teaspoonful of boracio acid thoroughly in 
half a pint of warm water, and bring this to the boil ; 
place a towel over a basin, lay a piece of flannel on this, 
and pour the boiling mixture over it, fold over the towel, 
wring the ends of the latter in opposite directions, then 
apply the flannel, when dry, but still almost boiling hot, 
to the place. This will give relief, but may have to be 
repeated. 

Moth. — ^With moth, undoubtedly prevention is infi- 
nitely better than cure. To prevent the ravages of these 
creatures, upholstered furniture should be lavishly 
sprayed (in daylight) with benzine, the woodwork should 
be washed with paraffin or turpentine, and turpentine- 
steeped sheets of paper should be fastened underneath 
the furniture, whilst naphthaline, powdered bitter 
apple, camphor, ifcc, may be forced down into any 
crevices or comers to be found. But the great thing 
to remember is that articles in constant use are seldom, 
if ever, infected in this way, if kept well brushed, 
occasionally switched out, and aired regularly. The 
same applies also to furs, which are far better kept in 
wardrobes if taken out at regular intervals, thrown 
over the line, and gently, but steadily, switched with 
a riding-cane or whip, and perfectly brushed, then 
returned to the wardrobe. If thin^ have to be stored 
away, air them and clean them in this way, then sprinkle 
each with a few drops of spirit of turpentine, folding 
each article separately, and placing packets of camphor, 
or any favourite insecticide, amongst the folds. Spread 
a clean sheet on a table, place the furs, blankets, winter 
clothes, &o., on this, folding over the sides and ends of 
the sheet to cover the contents completely, and sew 
them up tightly. If this parcel is then wrapped in 
sheets of strong brown paper, carefully pasted or 
gummed down, so that no cracks are to be found for 
the moth to creep into, these can be put away in perfect 
safety, either in close-fitting drawers or tightly-closed 
boxes or chests. Before use, the articles should, at 
the beginning of winter, be well shaken out and aired 
for a day or two in a dry room, and, if possible, a 
draught, after which no smell of turpentine, ifcc, will 
be apparent. Old housewives recommend the wrapping 
of a tallow candle in a brown-paper cylinder amongst 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. 105 

the clothes as an infallible anti-moth specific. 
It is well to remember that a change in the 
moth exterminator used is advisable, as after a time 
the moths seem to become immune. (I have seen moth 
peacefully browsing on lumps of camphor, whilst bitter 
apple also appears to lose its power in the same way.) 
But the moment moth is suspected in furniture, &c., 
it ^ould be well examined at once, and, if the suspicion 
is verified, the article should be sent off to a cleaner's 
to be properly baked and purified. Unless this is 
attended to, the mischief will spread, and a whole suito 
of furniture may be ruined in a very short time. If 
carpets are attacked, raise them, lay a damp cloth under 
the infected spot, cover with another, then iron heavily 
and steadily with a really hot iron till the carpet and 
the cloths are quite dry. If furnitiire cannot be sent 
away to be cleansed, the only thing is to put it in one 
room, hermetically close the windows, and bum sulphur 
in the room, closing and pasting up the doors, and 
leaving it for a day or so before opening and airing it. 

Silvertails. — ^These queer little creatures, which appear 
in some houses, are often troublesome to dislodge, but 
carbolic soap, or the chloride of lime treatment advised 
for fleas, will, in the end, get rid of them, especially if 
their point of entrance is found and blocked up. 

Wdsps. — ^These, in the end of simimer, often become 
little ^ort of a scourge. ' The only effectual remedies 
are the destruction, in the spring, of every queen wasp 
met with, and the discovery and destruction of the nest, 
which is certain to be somewhere close by where they 
congregate. For their stings, the remedies, especially 
the boracic fomentation, recommended for insect bites, 
will be foimd a relief, as will also a raw cut onion rubbed 
on the stung part. The same advice applies to hornets, 
which are very plentiful some years. 

Mice and rats are a sure sign of building defects, 
though in old houses the walls and flooring are so 
infested with them^ that they are almost impossible to 
extirpate. Examine well the places of entrance (in 
town houses especially), and carefully stop these with 
plaster of Paris, mixed to a stiff paste with water and 
broken glass, or ram up the holes tightly with common 
hard soda soap. There are a variety of mice poisons, 
but these require care in using in houses where there 
are cats or dogs or children. The best things are traps 
and a good mousing cj^t. Rats in dr^ns aro in their 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



106 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

proper place, but ance they come oiit should be hunted 
down ruthlessly. It should be remembered that they 
are patent disease carriers. Traps are often advised, 
and, in a way, are very successful, but it is very doubtful 
if they do not bring as many rats as they kill ; so the best 
thing is to call in the builder and have every possible 
place of entrance securely cemented up. It is said by 
coaatry people that if a rat be caught, a bell hung 
round his neck, and then turned loose, that he will 
infallibly frighten away his companions. If true I 
cannot say, but I knew in my childhood an old house 
where a rat had been so treated, and certainly there 
never seemed to be any others, save the patriarch of 
the bell ! 

Slugs and Snails. — ^These are often a great annoyance 
in houses flush with a garden or backyard. If the parts 
they affect are well washed with the strongest brine 
procurable, or with a strong solution of either carbolic 
acid or sulphate of iron (the chemist will mix this, 
which is, by the way, a poison, and must be used care- 
fully), it is often an effectual cure. Common salt, or 
even bran, strewed in their haunts kills or hampers them, 
and so renders their destruction easier. Half a pint of 
strong ammonia, well mixed with three gallons of water, 
is also an excellent wash for slug-infested haunts. 

IvorVy to Clean. — If well washed with plenty of soap 
and water, and then exposed to the sun as you lift it 
straight from the suds, ivory can often be perfectly 
cleaned. But remember to keep the ivory well wetted 
with soapsuds while in the sun and as soon as it is 
whitened, wash and rinse it well and dry carefully. A 
little lemon juice in the rinsing water is a great improve- 
ment. A lemon dipped in fine salt and well rubbed on 
is also effectual for ink stains, &o. In extreme cases a 
solution of loz. oxalic acid (poison) in half a pint of 
water, if well rubbed on with a stiff brush the ivory 
being then well washed, dried in a soft cloth, and left 
for a little near, but not actually in front of the fire, 
will be successful. Knife handles can be well cleaned 
thus. Remember ivory washed in too hot water or 
allowed to steep in it is sure to crack and become 
unsightly. 

Laccy Valuable, Oldy to Clean. — ^Fold it neatly, sprink- 
ling it thickly with dry, powdered magnesia between 
each fold, and leave it for several days; then shake off 
the magnesiii, which will d^rry most of the ^irt wi^h it, 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. 107 

LacBf to Wash. — Cover a large bottle, say an imperial 
quart, with fine flannel, and secure it with a needle and 
thresid. Wrap the laoe carefully round, spiral fashion, 
fixing both ends with great care, and cover the laoe with 
very fine flannel or else with clean muslin. Ma&e a 
strong lather of good, pure soap, and rub the lace and 
ita envelope with it ; rinse under a tap, and repeat till 
the lace is quite clean. Then rinse in thin rice water 
or clear giun water, very weak — rub down to get rid 
of any excess of this starch — dip in cool water, and then 
dry the lace, with the muslin removed, in the sun. 
Filling the bottle with hot water will expedite this 
process. When the lace is nearly drjr, iron it with a cool 
iron between very fine muslin, picking out the lace as 
required. A hot iron makes the lace hard and stiff like 
common curtain lace. Care in wrapping the lace on 
the bottle is care well bestowed, as less picking out is 
required afterwards. 

Lace, Gold, to Clean. — ^The following is a good recipe : 
loz. of stale bread in fine crumbs, ^oz. of magnesia, 
^oz. of cream of tartar. With spirits of wine make the 
above into a paste, and apply to the lace with a small 
brush. When dry, dust off the crumbs, and rub gently 
with chamois leather. This preparation will not soil 
scarlet. 

Lace, Silver, and Embroidery, to Clean. — If much tar- 
nished, brush over with liquid ammonia, and rub well 
with wash leather. Sprinkle the lace with finely- 
powdered whiting, and brush off with a fairly hard brush. 
But perhaps the best medium for cleaning such articles 
is a very dilute solution of cyanide of i)otassium in 
water. This is, however, a deadly chemical, and the 
solution is best made up by the chemist from whom it 
is bought. Nothing is so quickly effective, and, if 
applied on a sponge tied to a glass tube or rod, no danger 
to the Lands need be apprehended. After removing the 
tarnish, use a clean sponge. Another nostrum is oxalic 
acid, also a poison, and applied in the same way. Cream 
of tartar made into a paste with water can be applied, 
and then, after some time has elapsed, brushed off with 
a fairly hard brush. Some people use magnesia, either 
dry or made into a paste with water, and brush it off 
when dry. Soldiers, again, use gin for their lace, while 
others use fuller's earth. One of the simplest cleansing 
mediums for silver, either lace or plate, is hyposulphite 
of soda, dissolved in water ; it is au almost instl^ntftneoua 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



108 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

remover of tarnish on silver. Strong liquor ammani» 
(sp. gr. '880) is also excellent, and so, too, is sal volatile ; 
but the ammonia affects some coloured cloths more than 
others. 

Leather, Morocco, to Benovate. — If this is the seat of 
a chair, this leathor should, from the first, be occajsion- 
ally rubbed over with a clean, soft cloth, and moistened 
with a little fresh milk, as this prevents the leather from 
drying and cracking. It must, of course, be well wiped 
off afterwards. To cleanse and polish the leather apply 
egg glair not too generously with a paint brush, and 
polish with a clean old silk handkerchief. When leather 
gets worn and shows a woolly surface, the only remedy 
is to re-colour this with some dye, either plain or blended 
to ^et the right shade, applying this dye as dry as 
possible, for slopping or over-wetting leather spoils it. 
When this colour is quite dry and well soaked into the 
leather the latter may be polished as before with the 
glair. To make this, whip together the white of one 
raw fresh egg, with half a teacupful of water, till it is 
all of a froth, and the egg white is perfectly dissolved. 
Then let it stand for some hours till the froth has sub- 
sided, when the clear part is poured off and used. If 
properly made this produces a nice varnish. 

Grease Stained. — Apply benzine very care- 
fully to the spots. 

Ink Stained. — ^Drop a drop or two of sweet 

spirits of nitre by means of a quill on to the spot and 
wash off with a little warm water and a silk handker- 
chief and rub the place well afterwards with another 
dry one. This will also remove inkstains from polished 
wood. 

Marble, to Clean. — Pound two parts washing soda, 
one part each of pumice stone and finely powdered chalk, 
and sift them through muslin, then make into a paste 
with water; apply thickly, let it dry on^ then wash well 
with soap and water, and rub it up with a soft cloth. 
Never use acids to marble, as they destroy its gloss. 
Marble should never be left wet, or with wet splashes 
on it, as these always darken the colour, and often 
turn into a kind of ironmould stain. Marble-topped 
washstands can be kept in perfect order with soap and 
water, quickly rinsed off and dried at once. If very 
dirty and stained, vigorous use of Sapolio works wonders. 
An occasional rub over with milk improves the gloss. 
Another good cleanser for white marble is made thus : 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



VAUIOITS RECIPES, kc, 109 

Mix ilb. of soda and lib. of whiting with suflficient warm 
water to bring it to the consistency of cream. Stand 
this in a jar in the oven overnight, to keep it warm, 
and in the niorning it will stir into a thick paste. Well 
wash the marble with soap and water, then spread this 
paste smoothly all over it half an inch thick ; leave it on 
for twenty-four hours, then wash it off and polish it up 
with a soft cloth. This ms^y have to be repeated in 
extreme oases, but it is an excellent and well tried 
cleanser. 

Stained. — It is important to know the origin 

of the stains, as different kinds require different treats 
ment. For ink stains^ make a thick paste of unslaked 
lime and strong soap ley ; spread this on thickly with a 
brush and leave it on for six or seven days, then wash it 
off with soft soap and water, and polish. Ironmould. — 
Well wash the stains with lemon juice, leave it on for 
quarter of an hour, then rub dry with a soft cloth; 
oxalic acid diluted with hot water or spirits of wine 
may also be used, but either must be done very quickly 
or it will destroy the surface. Grease may be removed 
with a thick paste of fuller's earth and water, left on 
till dry, then well rubbed up. Half a pint of soap lees, 
a gill of turpentine, mixed with a bullock's gall and 
sufficient pipeclay to make a stiff paste, applied thickly, 
left on for forty-eight hoiTrs, and then rubbed off with 
a soft cloth, is, like the first cleanser, excellent for the 
mysterious and inexplicable stains that so often deface 
marble. If stains, however, are deep-seated, it is 
generally best to call in a marble mason and have the 
surface renewed. 

Alabaster. — It is always safest to keep this 

clean, as cleansing emphatically does not improve it. 
It should always be kept well dusted. Ordinary good 
soap and water, once in a way, will do it no harm if 
rinsed off quickly and dried at once with soft cloths. 
If stained, apply a paste of whiting, or fuller's earth 
and water, leave it on till dry. then brush it off and 
polish with a silk handkerchiei. 

to Be-polish. — Putty powder (oxide of tin, 

a poison) mixed to a paste with water, thickly applied, 
allowed to dry on, and then well polished with a soft 
cloth, is often very successful ; so is also the following : 
Dissolve lilb. of potash in a gallon of hot water, add 
to it then lib. virgin wax, and boil for thirty-five 
minutes; after which let it get cold, when the wax will 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



110 ttOXTSEHOLD HINTS. 

float on the top. Now put this wax in a mortar and 
pound it with a marble pestle to a smooth paste, adding 
water to get it the right thickness. Rub the marble 
well with this, then poUsh with a soft cloth. 

-; ;— Black, to Clean, — If this is real marble, the 

recipes given above will answer capitally ; or if stained, 
with grease especially, these marks may be treated with 
a paste of whiting and benzine, allowed to dijr on ; but 
be vei7 careful to do this in daylight as the benzine is 
very inflammable. Then jwlish it well with a thick paste 
of powdered pumice stone and sweet oil, lastly leather 
well with a chamois. In the present day, however, a 
great deal of so-called black marble is in reality enam- 
elled slate, the surface being obtained by japanning it 
with tar varnish under the application of great heat, 
which can, of course, not be done at home. A remedy 
used for this runs as follows: Apply very sparingly a 
coating of best Berlin black to the damaged surface, 
then levelling this well either with pumice stone or a 
steel "scraper"; finish off first with rotten stone 
and oil, and lastly with dry rotten stone rubbed on with 
the palm of the hand. 

Mats, Cocoanuty io Clean, — Hang the mat in a draught 
or by tne fire till absolutely bone dry, then either hang 
it firmly on a line, or lay it face down and switch, or 
rather thrash, it well, and hang it against a flat wall 
or surface; repeat this beating on the other side 
to get all the loose dirt out. After this wash it 
thoroughly and rinse well (in rain or soft water) till the 
water that drips from it on to a white saucer is perfectly 
clean. Now peg it out well, to prevent any twist or curl 
up in the drying beating it again well when dry to soften 
it and make it flexible. 

Straw, to Clean, — ^Wash these well in plenty 

of warm soapy water, acidulated with vinegar or prefer- 
ably lemon juice, scrubbing them well and carefully with 
an old nailbrush if very dirty ; then rinse again in clean 
acidulated water, and put them in the sun to dr^. 
Washed thus, these mats keep ther colour well, but if 
treated with soda or dried at the fire they turn yellow 
to a certainty. 

Matting, Indian, to Clean. — ^Wash well with strong 
salt and water, and dry at once with a soft, clean doth. 
Or it may be scrubbed with bran water, or else take 
up the matting, and scrub it well with ammoniated 
water and either Chiswick or Sunlight soap, using a 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



VARIOUS RECIPES, <fec. Ill 

moderately stiff brush. Put the matting on a table 
and wash it a yard or so at a time, rinsing it well on 
both sides, or, better still, drawing it through water after 
scrubbing it. Water will not injure this matting if of 
good quality, for, indeed, it wears and lasts better in 
slightly damp places. 

Stained. — ^If the marks are greasy, wash off 

with ammoniated soapy water, or apply a thick paste 
of fuller's earth and water (or the French terre de saumier 
is stronger), leave it on till dry, and then brush the 
powder out of the matting very carefully. If the stain 
is paraffin, use benzine, applying this in a circle outside 
the stain to prevent the latter spreading. This will 
probably have to be repeated, but will be successful 
in the end. Remember benzine must never be used near 
a fire or by artificial light, as it is very inflammable. 

Metals, to Clean. — Aluminium. — ^Wash this well 
in soap and water, and leather it thoroughly, 
both outside and in. Remember soda must 
never, on any account, be used with alumi- 
nium, as it ruins it thoroughly. A little whiting 
mixed to a paste with water, and applied occasionally, 
keeps it in excellent order but never allow any patent 
polishing paste or liquid to be api)lied to it. Aluminium 
IS perfectly easy to keep in condition, if regularly washed 
and leathered, and never allowed to stand about dirty. 
Strong measures invariably spoil the appearance and 
the surface of the aluminium. As a matter of fact, the 
same remark applies to all metals. 

Armour, dec, Old, to Preserve. — In armouries all old 
armour, weapons, &c., are carefully coated with an 
almost invisible layer of pure vaseline, which is a splendid 
preservative from rust. Fenders, fireirons, knives, and 
all steel goods may be treated in the same way, when to 
be stored, covering them well with vaseline, and then 
rolling them up in thick flannel or brown paper. Old- 
fashioned housekeepers use mutton suet instead of 
vaseline. 

Brass, to Clean. — ^The best cleanser for this is finely- 
sifted rottenstone, mixed to a paste with good sweet 
oil, finally polishing with a little dry rottenstone on a 
leather or the palm of the hand. None of the patent 



polishes can really compare with this, for thougn they 
certainly do clean, far more quickly than the old- 

them tamisl 
stone and ail 

d by Google 



fashioned methods, things polisned with them tarnish 
much sooner than when cleaned with rottenstone and ail. 



112 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

Any repousse work can be cleaned with the same com- 
pound, or with a solution of ammonia; but please re- 
member that, though admirable for solid metal, it is 
not much good with modern lacquered ware, a great 
deal of which, when cheap, being simply black metal 
coated with a layer of brass, and finally lacquered j so 
that any strong polish or much rubbing will infallibly 
remove the lacquer and the coating of brass, leaving 
the dingy under-metal on view. Be careful when clean- 
ing brass work with any polish to remove all traces of 
the polish, for nothing looks worse than bits of red or 
brown sticking about the crevices. Having cleansed 
the brass thus, finish by well rubbing it up with an oiled 
or vaselined rag, and tlieii polishing with a leather, but 
remember, to secure a good result, this rubbing should 
be all in one direction; cross-rubbing never polishes 
properly. Brass-lacquered goods should never be 
pclished with anything, but simply washed in good soap 
aiid water, and lastlj[ rubbed up with a soft leather. 
Unlacquered, old-fashioned, solid metal is most effectu- 
ally and easily cleaned (abroad) with onion peel dipped 
in Calais or any fine sand. Failing onion, lemon peel, 
after the juice nas been squeezed from it or sour beer, 
answers admirably for mixing the sand; this is the 
method employed by Dutch and Flemish housewives, 
whose affection for brass and copper utensils has almost 
passed into a proverb. Old-fashioned brass ornaments, 
candlesticks, or miniature frames may be beautifully 
cleaned thus : Put into a large pan, sufficient quite boiling 
water to cover them generously, and, when this is boiling 
hard, stir in a good lump of soda, and sufficient soap 
to produce a strong lather. When this is boiling 
hardest lay in the brass articles to be cleaned, watcn 
the water reboil, and let the brass, &c., all boil well 
together for two or three minutes, stirring it with a 
smooth stick to get it evenly wet. Now scrub it well 
all over with the soapsuds and a soft brush, then lift 
it out as it stands into a basin, and iwur clean, perfectly 
boiling water over it. Let it steep in this for a minute 
or two, then lift it out, and dry carefully. It will need 
no subsequent rubbing or polishing. This is a laoquerer's 
rtHjipe, which I have seen tried on some old brass minia- 
ture frames which had been neglected for years, and were 
green with verdigris, and also on solid ormolu, with 
the most perfect success. 
Bronze, to Clean. — Few people probably know that, 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. 113 

ariginally, bronze was of a pure bntterciip gold tint, and 
that in most cases the olive-green shade with a bine- 
green patina, we all know so well, is simply the eflfect of 
age and, possibly, exposure. At any rate, pnre copper, 
if left to itself and not regularly cleaned, develops a 
most beautiful olive-bronze satiny surface. For good, 
really old bronze, if simple dustine is insufficient, wash- 
ing with ammoniated water, applied carefully with a 
fairly stiff nailbrush, will be found a success. Wash as 
quickly as possible, rinse thoroughly, then dry in box- 
wood dust, previously heated in thle oven. Never use 
acid in bronze cleaning on any account ! Remove grease 
with heat, but never scrape with a knife. Modem 
bronzes, which are frequently artificially coloured, should 
never be washed, but simply well dusted and wiped with 
a silk handkerchief, a very little sweet oil or pure vase- 
line being occasionally rubbed over them with tne fingers. 

Britannia Metaly to Clean. — ^The best cleansing 
medium for this is rottenstone, mixed with finely- 
shredded primrose soap (or soft soap), and worked to a 
paste with a little turpentine. Apply this fairly thickly, 
leave it on for a little^ then rub it up well, finishing 
with a flannel dipped in drv rottenstone. If a very 
brilliant surface is required, finish with a burnisher. 
This is also excellent for pewter. 

Coppery to Clean, — This may be cleaned by the 
methods given for brass^he onion peel and Calais sand 
being specially good. The favourite English method, 
however, is to wash it in a solution of oxalic acid and 
water (loz. of the acid to a pint of water), then rinsing 
it well, and leaving it to dry thoroughly in hot sawdust ; 
but this is very destructive to the surface of the metal. 
A very good method is that used abroad, viz. : A halved 
lemon, from which most of the juice has been expressed, 
dipped in ashes (these may be obtained fiom the cinder- 
sifter), sifted through a fine muslin, and well rubbed 
on the metal, and then thoroughly rinsed off. For bad 
scratches use a burnisher. 

Benares Ware. — ^Well wash this in warm soapy water, 
dry thoroughljr, then rub well all over with a halved 
lemon, again rinsing it auickly in boiling water (to re- 
move the add), and, lastly, dry weu and polish 
thoroughly with a leather. This is the best treatment 
for Oriental brass trays, though whiting and methy- 
lated spirit may be used. 

Copper Bailer, to Clean. — ^Mix 41b. of soft soap (in the 
I 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



114 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

boiler) with water enough to dissolve it, plenty of doda, 
and as much strong liquid ammonia as the person clean- 
ing the copper can stand. Add as much water to this 
as will fill up the boiler, keep a small fire ^aing, and 
the dirt will soon come away if helped by a little scrap- 
ing (a proper scraping tool can be got from any iron- 
monger). When the surface of the copper is reached, 
a good rubbing with sand or finely-sifted ash, moistened 
with hydrochloric acid, diluted with water will soon 
produce a brilliant surface. Rinse thoroughly and dry 
well before use. Do not put your hands near the soap 
mixture, and, if possible. Keep them out of the second, 
unless you wear very greasy gloves. 

;— Pans J to Clean. — Fill them up well with 

water, with a knob or two of soda, and let them boil 
till the dirt is well loosened. Then rinse them out 
thoroughly, and clean well with silver sand and soap, 
and again rinse, and dry well. This is for the inside. 
For the outside use salt and sand, moistened with vine- 
gar, till clean, then rinse and dry well. If they are 
required to be very bright, boil them for a minute or 
two in boiling beer, then lift them out, and, without 
wiping them, let the beer dij on them. Another old- 
fashioned recipe is the following : For the tinned inside, 
boil up in an old pan, kept for the purpose, one breakfast, 
cupful of soft soap, half a breakfastcupful of soda, and 
one and a half breakfastcupfuls of water; then lift off 
the pan, and with an egg whisk, beat it all to a froth, 
when you add two breakfastcupfuls of silver sand. For 
the outside, put into a jar two breakfastcupfuls of silver 
sand, one of flour, lib. of salt, and half a pint each of 
vinegar and water. Rub this on vigorously with the 
hand but mind it does not touch the tinned inside, or 
it will blacken it. 

Ormulu^ to Clean. — ^This should be washed quickly in 
soft soapy warm water, and well polished with a leather. 
If very dirty, after washing, cover it with a paste of 
whiting and water or methylated spirit, leaving this on 
till perfectly dry, when it should be brushed off and 
polisned. Never use polishing paste of any kind I This 
IS the best treatment for any lacquered goods, of which 
ormolu is a sample. Dilute nitric acid, or a diluted mix- 
ture of nitric and hydrochloric acid, is sometimes re- 
commended for this purpose, but these mixtures are both 
too dangerous for ordinary household use. 

TcxcteTy to Clean. — ^For this the mixture for Britannia 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. 115 

metal may be recommended, or try the following: 
Three parts fill a large copper with water, add to this 
a good armful of hay, 21b. of soda, and a quarter of a 
peck of wood ashes ; now lay in the pewter, and boil it 
all for two to three hours. Now lift out each piece 
singly, and cletui well with a wisp of hay and silver 
sand ; when clean, rinse it thoroughlv in plenty of clean, 
cold water (it is on this rinsing that its subsequent 
brilliancy depends), and let it dry in the sun or before 
the fire. (This recipe was given me by an old family 
housekeeper who, by it, had cleaned some magnificent 
pewter wnicn had been put away and forgotten for cer- 
tainly a century, and, when found, was supposed to be 
utterly ruined. When I saw it it was splendid. She 
told me that blackened tin could be cleaned in the same 
way.) To keep pewter in good condition, nothing beats 
jKJwdered rottenstone, worked to a stiff paste witli soft 
soap, then into each ^Ib. of this paste work two fluid 
ounces of oil of turpentine, till thoroughly blended. 
Make this paste up into balls, covering eawi with tinfoil. 
To use these, well wash the pewter, then moisten a ball 
with water, and rub it well all over the pewter ; let it 
stand for a few minutes, then rub it oflf sharply with 
a clean soft cloth, and polish with a leather. To remove 
tarnish, the best thing is half a lemon or an onion dipped 
in very fine sand or ashes. In kitcheners a very fine ash 
will be found collected between the firebricks and the 
ovens, which, when sifted through two folds of muslin, 
is capital for any metal cleaning. But remember all 
these recipes are for cleaning old, pure pewter; if 
applied to the modem fashionable kind, they might very 
likely prove utterly destructive^ as the surface in 
modem pewter is produced chemically, and not, as of 
old, by elbow grease I 

Steel, to Clean. — ^Emery flour and oil made into a paste 
is about the best thing to clean steel, applying and 
rubbing this on well, and polishing it, after whiwi rub 
it over with an oiled or vaselined rag and rub up again ; 
or try emery cloth, if fine enough, say No. or No. 1 ; but 
an^hing coarser, through it seems to produce an effect 
quicker, scratches the metal badly, and, consequeintly, 
it gets dirty again sooner. The ash found in a kitchener 
(described above), or bath brick rubbed down to a fine 
powder and mixed with either sweet or paraffin oil, is a 
splendid cleanser. To clean steel fenders and other 
suchlike articles, rub two bath bridw together, and 

I a 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



116 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

mix the resulting powder with either sweet or paraffin 
oil to a paste ; apply this thickly, then rub it until dry 
with relays of clean dusters; when it is perfectly dry, 
dip a clean dry duster into dry whiting, and polish 
it well. If this is properly applied it gives an almost 
silvery brightness to the metal. 

If steel grates have by any accident been blackened 
with Brunswick black, if it will not yield to the appli- 
cation of No. 1 or 2 emery cloth, followed by No. 0, 
rubbing it as much as possible one way, and finished with 
a chain Durnisher, such as is used for harness, the quickest 
way would be to send it to an ironmonger and have 
the black blistered off. If the cleansing however, must 
be doiie at home, the paste of paraffin oil and bath brick 
must be laid on thickly, left on for twenty-four hours, 
and then again rubbed off with an old rag. and finally 
polished with fine emery paper. This process will have 
to be repeated probably several times, but in the end 
the black will be got rid of. Of course, burning it off 
does it immediately. Once it is cleaned it should be 
regularly polished, as steel, like many another thing, 
though troublesome to get right, is very easy to keep 
in condition with regular attention. Small articles, 
such as keys, buttons, &c., which have become very much 
rusted, should be left to steep for two or three days 
in oil, and then polished as above. 

Another recipe is this: Dissolve ioz. of camphor in 
nearly ^Ib. of lard; when perfectly melted, remove all 
the scum carefully, and, when nearly set, mix with this 
lard as much blacklead as will give it a rich iron colour, 
rub the ornaments with this mixture, leave them thus 
for twenty-four hours, then pohsh them with a linen 
cloth and a soft brush, and be careful to get all the 
paste off them. Some people say the blacklead should 
be added whilst the lard is still warm, and use it at 
once, allowing it to set on the steel ; but this is a matter 
for personal experience. Things cleaned in this way 
keep bright for a long time. Steel kaives and forks 
that have been allowea to get out of condition may be 
restored by any of the above methods. Remember, 
when washing fcnives or steel forks, to do so in a jug 
containing just water enough to cover the blades, or the 
steel parts, without touching the handles. It is well, 
if very greasy, to rub them well with a piece of paper, 
then wash at once in warm, but not hot, soapy water. 
(Remember that boiling water or any heat spoils tiie 



d by Google 



VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. 117 

temper of a knife and blunts it.) If a knife or fork 
has been used for anything acid, clean it at once, as 
the stain will then come off quite easily. To remove 
the smell of onions from a knife blade, put it two or 
three times into the earth. 

Tin J to Clean. — This metal, which is generally only 
a thin coating of tin on iron, suffers a good deal from 
over-zealous cleaning, any strong cleanser removing the 
outer layer of tin, and leaving the metal underneath 
exposed to sight, and, worse still, to the atmosphere. 
Whiting, mixed to a stiff paste with plain water or 
ammonia, is best, on condition that, when dry, 
the article is well brushed to get rid of any of the 
white powder. Another cleanser for tin is the 
following: Shave down thinly 4oz. of good prim- 
rose soap, and iwur over it one quart of cold, soft 
water, letting it stand till next d&j till thoroughly dis- 
solved; now add lib. of best whiting, and bring it to 
the boiling point, stirring all the time till perfectly 
blended, then let it stand till cold, when you add 2oz. 
spirits of hartshorn and bottle it at once in a tightly- 
stoppered bottle. This will keep any time. Shake the 
bottle well before using, pouring a little of the contents 
into a basin. 

Zinc, to Clean. — ^This is best done with turps., to which 
you may, or may not, add whiting. The turps, will 
cleanse it, whiting giving it brilliancy. 

Milk, to SterUtse. — ^This is often a very important 
point, for invalids and infants especially, as the result 
IS usually better liked than the ordinary boiled milk. 
Have the milk as fresh as possible, and pour it at once 
into delicately clean bottles, filling these till within 
an inch of the top, fastening them down either with 
patent glass stoppers or with wads of antiseptic cotton 
(procurable at the chemist's). Stand these bottles in 
a kettle of cold water, wedging them up so as not to 
let them touch the kettle, then cover down the pan 
and bring the water very gradually to the boil; now 
keep it boiling strongly round the bottles for thirty-five 
to forty minutes, after which lift the pan carefully off 
the fire (or, better, turn off the gas), and let the bottles 
of milk stand untouched until tbe surrounding water is 

Perfectly cold, then lift them out, wipe, and store them. 
>o not remove the stopper till the milk is actually 
wanted. This, of course, does not make the milk per- 
fectly sterile (for that the above treatment would nave 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



118 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

to be repeated several successive days), but it sterilises 
it to a practical degree. But remember, for the process 
to be successful, the bottles, &c., must be absolutely 
and perfectly clean, and directly the milk is taken out 
they must be soaked in soda and water for several hours, 
and then well scalded out. The same treatment must 
be applied to any brush or cloth used in their cleansing. 
Small frames for holding the bottles may be bought, 
but the above answers excellently. 

Onion Water. — ^This old-fashioned decoction is invalu- 
able for keeping off flies from gilt frames, &o. Boil 
one large or two small onions in a pint of water till very 
soft, then strain off the liquid and use when warm, not 
hot, two or three times in the summer. 

Paint, to Clean. Never use soda in paint washing, 
as this is fatal, but dissolve two tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered borax in a little boiling water, and then add 
enough oold water to bring it all to a generous thre^ 
pints. After thoroughly dusting the paint, sponge 
it well and gently with the borax solution, then rinse 
with tepid water, and dry and rub up with a clean, Sjoft 
cloth. If the paint is varnished, rub it after drying 
it with a little good furniture cream. Fine whiting 
made into a cream with water is another excellent 
cloauser for white or enamelled funiiture, whilst for 
finger marks, &c., apply a soft cloth wetted witli 
benzine, or dip a flannel into whiting, rub on lightly, 
then rinse off with clear water. This gentler treatment 
is quite as effectual and far less destructive to the paint 
than the heroic methods so dear to the ordinary char- 
woman. 

; — Stains ) to Bemove. — ^Moisten them well with 

turpentine. 

; SmeUy to Remove. — Stand shallow pans full 

of water, into which you have thrown a good handful 
of hay, about the room for twenty-four to forty-eight 
hours. 

Paper-hanger^ s Pasfe.~Oi this there are two kinds, 
the boiled and the unboiled, the latt<*r being considered 
the best. For it, mix a quartern of stale flour very 
gradually and smoothly with cold water, till it forms 
a smooth, even, and rather stiff paste. Now stir into it 
steadily and gradually sufficient absolutely boiling water 
to bring it to the consistency of rather thick cornflour ; 
now add to this a teaspoonful of powdered alum (this 
makes it flow evenly from the brush), and it is ready 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



TARIOUS RECIPES, &c. 119 

for use. For boiled paste make in the same way. only 
using warm instead of boiling water, and let it all boil 
together for two or three minutes. Use when oold. Of 
course, this may be made in any quantity required, as 
long as the proportions are kept. It is the best thing 
for pasting up little strips of wall paper, which, if not 
attended to at once, get torn and unsightly. 

Papier-mach^f to Ulean. — Sponge the article with cold 
water, and, whilst still damp, sprinkle with fine whiting 
or flour, dry with a clean, soft flannel, and rub up with 
an old silk handkerchief. 

Salt. — This is very useful in the household for many 
purposes. For instance, salt and water is the best thing 
for cleaning stained or dirty matting, cane-seated and 
basket chairs, baskets, &c. A little put into hot water 
starch for muslins prevents the iron from sticking, whilst 
put into the last rinsing water in washing delicate 
colours, it helps to fix the latter. A very strong solu- 
tion of salt and water, again, is very useful for a sprain. 
If thrown generously on the fire, salt will put out a 
burning, chimney, whilst if anything is spilt on or 
allowed to boil over the kitchen range, a little salt 
sprinkled on the grease spots removes the smell. A 
pinch of salt dropped into the container of any petroleum 
lamp gives wonderful brilliancy to the light. (The same 
applies to a small lump of camphor.) Soiled carpets may 
also be renovated by the use of the coarsest kitchen salt 
spread on lavishly. 

Soap. — This is an old housekeeper's recipe for home- 
made soap : Boil 61b. of oomm.on washing soda with 
61b. of quick lime (shell lime is best) in ten quarts of 
water for half an hour, then let it stand till next day 
to clear. Now draw off the lye (this is the clear part, 
free from the sediment), and boil for half an hour with 
lib. of common resin and 71b. of any fat. Let this stand 
till nearly cold, then cut it into bars. The time for 
boiling seems rather short, so boil it till the ingredients 
are well mixed, looking like soap, and beginning to set. 
The following American recipe is said to be an ex- 
tremely good one: Save every scrap of fat, however 
small, and render it down in an old pan kept for the 
purpose, doing this when the fire is low^ and being care- 
ful the lat never bums or smokes, as this is safe to cause 
a horrible sniell. When you have collected 61b. of this 
fat, put it into the pan with sufficient hot water to 
cover it well, and stand it on the range till the fat is 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



120 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

perfectly melted, stirring it well now and again. 
Directly it is all dissolved, lift off the pan, and leave till 
cold, when the fat will be in a cake on the surface, and 
can be lifted off whole. Any dirt, &c., adhering to the 
under side may be scraped off. Then melt this clarified 
fat once more; meanwhile stir a can of Babbett's lye 
(a well-known American preparation) in a quart of oold 
water till thoroughly dissolved, stirring it with a wooden 
skewer, and settmg it aside to cool (it heats up when 
added to the water) ; now lift the dissolved fat from 
the fire, and pour to it the cooled lye veiy slowly, 
adding two tablespoonfuls of ammonia, and stirring the 
mixture constantly from the beginning till it begins to 
set, i.e., twenty-nve to thirty minutes ; when this is 
perfectly hard cut it into squares or bars. This makes 
a hard, white soap, excellent for laundry purposes, which 
will float in water. The above quantities make about 
81b. of soap. The above recipes have been frequently 
asked for by Qiteen correspondents. 

Stags' Antlers and Horns. — ^These should be kept regu- 
larly and thoroughly dusted with a stiff, short-haired 
brush, as moth gather in the hair, &c., at the roots 
of the antlers, and also in the cloth on which they are 
mounted. They should be freely dusted with bitter 
apple, powdered naphthaline, or any moth destroyer 
successful in the neighbourhood. Buffalo horna and 
such like may be kept in brilliant condition by leather- 
ing them, or rubbing them over with a soft cloth on 
which you have rubbed a very small quantity of vaseline. 

Steps, Stone, to Keep in Condition, — Boil together 
half a pint each of size and blue water, with two table- 
spoonfuls of whiting, and two cakes of pipeclay, each 
about the size of half a small cake of soap, in two quarts 
of water. Wash the stones well over with a flannel 
slightly wetted with this mixture, and, when dry, mb 
them with a flannel and brush off the dust. For blue 
water dissolve sufl&cient stone blue in half a pint of water 
to bring it to the required shade. 

to Clean. — Mix powdered chloride of lime 

with cold water till of the consistency of very thick 
whitewash, then apply this thickly all over the steps 
with an old brush ; leave it for several hours, if possible 
all night, then wash it off with plenty of cold water, 
and lastly clean the steps as usual. Excellent for 
removing green stains left by damp. 

Stone Floors, — It is best not to wash these too often, 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



TAEIOITS RECIPES, &c. 121 

though it must be done occasionally. The best and 
quickest plan is to rub the surface well over with a 
dry, fairly hard brick of sandstone, and then sweep this 
oflF; this keeps them perfectly wnite, and only needs 
washing occasionally. When this is considered neces- 
sary, the mixture given for stone steps answers well. 

StepSf to Bedden. — These are usually simply washed 
with rs^ddle instead of hearthstone. For this you mix 
red ochre to the proper shade with water or skim milk, 
but this is a decidedly messy performance, and comes 
off very freely, so it is best, though a litle more trouble- 
some, to prepare the raddle thus: Mix the red ochi-e 
smoothly with a little cold water, then pour it into 
boiled starch till you have obtained the right shade, 
now lay it on evenly leaving the steps to dry without 
being trodden on. Tnis is said not to come off, and even 
to bear washing once or twice. ^ 

Skins f to Clean. — Sheep's skin, or any leather that is 
soft when clean, may be washed in soap and water, wash- 
ing the skin well, then rinsing all tne dirty soapsuds 
out of it with fresh soapy water. Some soap should 
always be left in the skin, as this softens it. The skin 
must be well worked and pulled with the hands while 
drying, to keep it soft and shapely. It should be dried 
in a draught, or in the sun if not too strong. If dried 
too quickly near the fire or in a hot sun it will shrink 
and narden. 

to Cure. — Take two parts saltpetre to one 

of alum, and mix them well ; rub the flesh v side of the 
skin well with this, then sprinkle it thickly with the 
powder, and roll it up very tightly, fur side out, wind- 
ing it up with broad, strong tape into as compact and 
solid a roll as you can get it. Leave this roll hanging 
in the air for several days, then unroll it, lay it fur side 
down on a flat surface, and scrape the upper side well 
with a blunt knife, being careful not to cut the skin. 
If, when cured, the skins are hard and unyielding, rub 
and work the leather side well (kneading and pressing 
it with the hands) with oil. fat, vaseline (the best thin^), 
or soft soap. If this is tnoroughly done the skins will 
work quite soft. Yolk of egg is also a splendid softener 
where alum has been used in the curing. After soften- 
ing the skin with egg yolk, "stake" it, i.e., draw it 
backwards and forwards over a blunt, semi-circular 
knife fixed upright in a bench or table. 

to Freserve. — Before storing skins, sprinkle 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



122 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

them liberally with Keating's insecticide and freshly 
ground black pepper, then sew each skin up carefully 
in a piece of linen, folding the ends over well and using 
very small stitches. Then pack them tightly in a case 
well lined with new brown paper, and paste a sheet of 
the same closely over all, lastly fastening down the cases 
as tightly as possible. This is an excellent way of 
keeping any furs or skins, only be sure they are well 
covered both with the linen and the brown paper. 
Insects hate the latter, and will never willingly bite 
through it, but they can and will creep through the 
smallest gap that will give them an entrance. 

Bugs, to Washy &c. — If grease stained, 

fuller's earth well rubbed into the fur will take away 
both grease and dirt; or wash the rug in ammoniatea 
water and soft soap, or soft soap, water and parafBn. 
Rinse the last time in soapy water, and let it dry in a 
draught or not too hot a sun, pulling and worlung it 
well into shape as it dries. For very delicate furs of 
all kinds the best thing is to heat some bran on a tray 
or a sheet of paper in the oven. Meanwhile, shake, 
lightly switch, and well brush the fur ; when the bran is 
hot, lay the fur out flat on a table and rub handfuls of 
the hot bran in, the wrong way of the fur that it may 
penetrate well ; repeat this all over the fur till the bran 
comes away quite clean, then shake the fur well to get 
rid of the bran, smooth it lightly the right way of the 
hair, and it will be quite restored. 

Stains. — To be successful in eradicating stains, the 
great point is to treat them as soon as possible, for a stain 
which might be eradicated in literally a few minutes 
will very likely, if of long standing, need considerable 
trouble, even if it be possible to treat it effectually. 

BlacUead Stains. — This is often a troublesome stain 
to eradicate, for soap and water is apt to spread it, 
besides causing the colours to run. About the best 
thing, for a carpet at all events, is to apply a fairly 
thick paste of fuller's earth and water, then leave it 
to dry on, after which brush it well out, and, if necessary, 
repeat the treatment; but if the stain is a really bad 
one, it is much better to send it at once to a good 
cleaner. 

Billiard Tablecloth. — Any grease stains on this from 
candles, &c., are best removed by covering them with 
blotting paper, and passing a hot iron over this, shifting 
the blottmg paper as the grease is absorbed. H^s, in 



d by Google 



YARIOrs RECIPES, SiC. 123 

fact is the best way of treating most woollen materials. 
If a billiard taUedoth is carefully and r^olarly brushed 
it ought not to require mudi more. At ^ring-cleaning 
time^ howerer, brush it Tery thoroughly, first with a 
medium, and then with a biard brusin, and when you 
hare well brushed out the sides and comers, dust the 
cloth all oyer with fuller's earth and brush this up again^ 
finally rub it well all oTer with a piece of dean, coarse 
flannel, dipped in a stroog solution of ammonia, being 
careful the flannel is not suffici^itly damp to wet the 
cloth through, but only just moist enough to pick up the 
pieces and freshen tlie surface. This treatment has a 
wonderfully deansing and renorating effect. 

Bricks, Grease Stained. — ^For this the ever-useful 
fuller's earth, mixed to a paste with water, left to dry 
on, then carefully swept off, usually answers admirably, 
though it may require two or three api^cations if the 
stain is of some standing. Another remedy much recom- 
mended is this : Moisten loz. of powdered fuller's earth 
with a Uttle spirit of turpentine, adding to it loz. of 
potassium and ^oz. of salt of tartar; work this to a 
paste with good soft soap, and make it up into squares. 
To use it, moisten the stained bricks, and rub them well 
over with this soap and water till it lathers well. 

Chintz, Sfainrd. — First shake this thoroughly well, 
then lay it out flat, and brush it all over with a long-haired 
soft brush ; next wipe it down with a clean flannel, being 
careful not to smear it, and. lastly, rub it evenly and 
carefully from top to bottom with dry breadcrumb, 
changing this directly it gets dirty. Be careful in doing 
this never to t>ouch the cleansea part with the soiled 
breadcrumbs. If the curtains are kept thoroughly 
dusted, this treatment at the grand cleaning time will 
be suflScient to keep them in thoroughly good order. 

Condy Stains. — ^Make a solution of loz. oxalio acid in 
a pint of water, and soak any underlinen, cloths, &c., 
stained with Condy 's fluid in this solution, when the 
stains, however deep, will be discharged without injury 
to the fabric. 

Fruit Stains. — Boiling water generally removes fruit 
stains. Another way is to dami> the material with hot 
water, and strain it across a basin, dust it with salts of 
sorrel, rubbing this well in with a smooth piece of stick, 
and then pouring absolutely boiling water through it; 
this must oe well rinsed out, after which the linen may 
be washed in the usual way. Another way is to make 

Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



lU HOIJSEHOLD HINTS. 

a paste of salt and water, rub the stain over with soft 
soap or good yellow soap, well wetted, and cover it with 
the paste of salt and water ; the salt must be kept quite 
damp to make it act, dry salt is useless. A favourite 
laundress's recipe is to soak the stained place well over 
on both sides with good yellow soap, and then tie over 
it a little pearl ash, and let it all soak in hot water 
(even, if necessary, boiling it), rinse well, and dry in 
the open air. Lastly, the following, which is a form 
of eau de Javelle, is a most excellent remover of fruit 
and almost any other stains. Crush 4oa. of chloride of 
lime in a basin, and work it to a smooth paste with 
a little cold water ; when perfectly mixed add to this from 
one and a half to one and three-quarter pints more of 
cold water (to make up with the water used in blending 
the lime to two full pints) ; now stir the lime well up, 
cover closely, and let it stand for a day or two, stirring 
it now and again. After this leave it till perfectly 
settled, when you skim it, and pour off the clear liquid, 
straining it into a quart bottle^ which must be kept 
tightly closed. To take out individual stains, rub the 
spot with a rag dipped in this mixture, rinsing it at 
once, after the spot is removed, in clean, cold, or tepid 
water (hot water and soap will set almost every stain 
hopelessly). If the article is much stained or needs 
hleachi7igy let it soak in cold water, to which you have 
added enough of the above bleaching liquid to make 
the water smell slightly of the lime. Watch this, and 
directly the stains are removed lift out the linen, rinse 
thoroughly, and dry in the open air, in the sun if 
possible. This requires care, as if the linen is left in 
too long the bleach will rot it. The real eau de Javelle is 
made as follows : Mix loz. of chloride of lime with three- 
quarters of a pint of water, and in another basin dissolve 
2oz. of carbonate of potash (or, failing this, carbonate 
of soda) in a quarter of a pint, or gill of water; the 
two solutions must then be mixed, boiled, and, if neces- 
sary, filtered. Bottle and use as in the preceding recipe. 
But, from experience, I should say only use it half the 
above strength. 

Globes, Grease Stained. — Such stains can be removed 
from gas and other globes either with strong soda and 
water, or with benzine, being careful never to use the 
latter by candlelight or near a fire. The globes should 
be allowed to dry thoroughly before use, and should 
be rubbed up with old. soft newspaper. 



d by Google 



VARIOrS RBCIFBS, Ac. 125 

Ink Stains.— To be sacces^uDj treated thea^ should be 
attended to at once, for. if left to harden in. they are 
distinctly tronWesome. Quite the safest thing for fresh 
stains is milk or bntter-inilk : dip the stained parts in 
this till the stain disappears, after which wash it ont 
thoronghly: it may. howerer. reqnire to soak in the 
milk for a little. Ink may be sot ont of almost any 
material in this way. Fot* instance, if it has been spilt 
on a carpet, mb the stain well with milk, changing this 
till it no longer discolonrs, then mb the place well with 
a little diluted ammonia. If yust spilt, ink may easily 
be removed by sprinkling the place well with salt, bmsh- 
ing this np directly it is discoloured, and potting down 
fresh till the salt is no longer stained. An old-fashioned 
remedy for inkstains on wool or cloth was to mb these 
first with vinegar, then with dilute oxalic acid, rinsing 
it finally in plenty of clean water. Nowadays Sanitas 
fluid is much recommended for removing ink and other 
stains. To use oxalic acid, dissolve a teaspoonful of the 
acid in a gill c^ hot water, rubbing the stamed part well 
with this solution, and allowing it to dry on. This is 
much recommended for carpets. With reference to 
these, it must be mentioned that hot water is fatal to 
Brussels carpets, as it me^ts out the size used in stifiPen- 
ing the back of the carpet, therefore, cold application 
should only be used for this. Rubbing inkstains with a 
cut lemon or a out tomato is also said to be a capital 
remedy. For red ink, much diluted nitric acid is 
recommended. Inkstained linen may be either soaked 
in milk or treated thus : Strain the cloth tightly across 
the mouth of a basin full of boiling water, letting the 
straine^l part just touch the water, then rub well with 
salts of lemon, repeating this till the stain disappears, 
after which rinse well, and dry in the open air. Re- 
member salts of lemon and oxalic acid are both i>oison, 
and should be used carefully. Some people dip the 
stained cloth first in milk, and then in an oxalic solution, 
half the strength of that given above, finally rinsing 
well, and washing in the usual way. Inkstains on 
leather may also be treated with milk verj^ saBsfac- 
torily, polishing after with a little ammonia in case of 
its fzjreasing it. If old, the best thing is to drop sweet 
spirits of nitre on the stains with a quill, washing this 
off with a damp sponge, and, finally, drying and rubbing 
up with an old silk handkerchief. This is also an excel- 
lent plan for inkstained furniture; but in either case 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



126 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

it requires care, or it may remove the colour. TJuless 
the spot is at once rubbed with a wet sponge or oloth 
the nitre will leave a white spot, which nothing will 
eradicate. 

Ink, Marking » — ^For this make a solutian of loz. 
cyanide of potassium in 4oz. of water, and dip the stained 
article in this, or else brush it with an old toothbrush 
wetted with the solution ; directly the mark disappears 
wash it well in soap and water. The time it takes to 
remove the stain depends on the age and depth of the 
latter. As this solution is very poisonous, it must be 
kept under lock and key, and only used by a discreet 
person. Be sure never to let this touch the skin, especi- 
ally if the latter is cut or grazed. 

Ironmould. — These stains can be removed in the same 
way as recommended for ink on linen, but be extremely 
careful not to let either the salts of sorrel (oxalio acid) 
or the salts of lemon touch the skin, as both are 
poisonous. The best plan is to double a rag once or 
twice, and tie it round a cork, using this to rub the 
salts into the material. Another remedy is to shake 
well together 4oz. spirits of turpentine and loz. essence 
of lemon till thoroughly blended, then bottle for use. 

Paraffin 8tains.---For these the best thing is benzine. 
The secret of using this is to make a ring of the benzine 
round the outside of the actual stain, then apply more 
benzine to the stain itself. In this way you have no 
discolouration after the spirit has evaporated. But be 
sure never to use benzine save in daylight, as it is a 
most inflammable substance. Parafl&n on carpets may 
be removed by sprinkling either fuller's earth or wheat 
flour on the stains till they are completely covered, 
letting it lie, if possible, for a week without disturbing 
it, then brush off, and there should be no stain left. 
The nsuste of fuller's earth and water is also admirable 
for tnis. 

Parqueiy Stained. — ^If the stains are of ink, and fresh, 
they can be at once removed with a wet flannel, if old 
salts of lemon, or spirits of salt, should be applied very 
carefully, the polish being afterwards restored with bees- 
wax. If the stains are of any kind of grease, either the 
fuller's earth paste, or even fuller's e^rth well rubbed 
in, left on for twenty-four hours, and then brushed off, 
rarely fails. If the stains are of long standing, make 
the fuller's earth into a paste with a little pure benzine 
or turpentine; apply this thickly, leave till dry, then 



d by Google 



VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. 127 

brush off. and, lastly, polish as usual. On a hard oak 
floor, if the stains are merely superficial, they should be 
scraped off with a steel scraper, or a straight-ed^ed 
table' knife, or even very fine ^lasspaper, after which 
polish with beeswax and turpentine. If the oak cleans 
light, paint pure ammonia over it to darken it. 

Mildew Stain. — ^First brush off any loose mildew, then 
well rub in a little common salt, lastly sprinkling it with 
powdered French chalk, and thoroughly moistening it 
with clean, cold water; afFer this dry slowly in the 
open air, and then rinse well. This may require to be 
repeated, but seldom fails to be successful in the end. 
Rubbing the spot with a little lemon juice, or a little 
common salt, and leaving it to dry in the hot sun, is 
also very effectual. Mildew on leather may be removed 
by rubbing the place well with a clean, dry. and very 
soft cloth, to remove any fungus (mildew is simply a 
fungus brought out by damp) that mav be on the surface 
of the leather, then rub over with a rag just moistened 
with pyro-ligneous acid. To remove mildew from cloth 
rather depends on the nature of the article ; if both sides 
can be got at, and the article can be exposed to the 
open air, mix together a tablesjwonful each of soft soap 
and starch with a teaspoonful of salt and the juice of a 
lemon. Rub this mixture on both sides of the stain 
with a stiff brush, and 1^ the cloth out on the grass till 
the stain disappears. Where this cannot be done, rub 
the stains well with strong gin or whisky, cover this with 
a damp cloth and iron well. Sponging cloth, with a 
fairly strong solution of ammonia, will remove most 
stains and renovate the material. 

Sugar or Syrup Stains.— y^asb. out well in warm water, 
and then rub with ammonia diluted with warm water. 

Paint Stains. — ^When fresh remove either with butter 
or turpentine well rubbed in. If it has become diy, use 
turpentine mixed with a very little ammonia. If the 
colour of the fabric is likely to be destroyed, soften 
the paint well with a little oil; then remove the stain 
with turpentine or ether. 

Tea Stains. — Soak the stains in buttermilk, and then 
dry in the open air; this may be repeated if necessary, 
after which wash in cold water. Any of the bleaches 
recommended for fruit stains are also good, but if of 
long standing both tea and coffee stains are diflScult to 
eradicate. Another remedy is to spread the stained part 
over a basin, rub it well with powdered borax, and pour 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



128 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

boiling water through it. Other people, again, recom- 
meaid the use of pure glycerine; but if much hardened 
in the eau de Javdle given above is about as good as 
anything, if carefully used. 

Whitewash Stains. — Apply a little paraffin with a soft 
rag, and you will find the spots will disappear completely 
without injuring even the most delicate paint. 

Wallpaper y Stained. — ^The best for this is a thick paste 
of fuller's earth and water, left on all night, and then 
carefully brushed off. This may need to be repeated. 
Smoke stains are best removed with dry, but soft, bread- 
crumb, changing the latter directly it is soiled. 

Terra-Cotta Busts, dec, to Clean. — ^Remove all traces 
of the previous cleansing agent with soft soap and 
water, and then fill the bust with rain water, and let 
that soak through the pores. Another plan would be 
to place the bust in a bath of rain water (or other water 
that has been softened), and allow it to soak for a day 
or two, and then brush carefully. 

Tiles, to Clean. — ^Tiles in an ordinary way are better 
kept if never washed, but rubbed over with a danip 
cloth and then with skim milk, or milk and water. If 
unglazed and very dirty, clean them with a damp flannel 
dipped in fine Calais sandj using as little water as possi- 
ble, and then polish it with milk. If they are glazed, 
ammoniated water or Hudson's extract of soap will be 
best. But never allow the maids to swill the tiles with 
water as they are so fond of doing, as this works through 
to the cement, carrying the dirt with it, and in the long 
run loosens and unsets the tiles. If tiles are stained, 
wash carefully and quickly with Brook's or Sunlight 
soap; if this does not answer, apply a thick paste of 
whiting diluted with a solution of soda, or a paste made 
of very strong soap lees and quick lime, washing this off 
in a day or so with soap and water. Whiting and water 
mixed to a thin cream thickly applied and then wiped 
off with a flannel and polished with a soft duster is 
excellent for tiles. If tiled hearths are badly stained, 
a paste made with a bullock's gall, a wine-glassful of soap 
lees, half as much turpentine, and a little pipeclay, will 
usually remove these with one or two applications. If 
this fails, use dilute muriatic acid. Where resinous 
fire-lighters are used, spots of cjrease or resin may be 
removed from a tiled hearth by the use of a piece of glass 
or the back of a knife, whilst turpentine or paraffin will 
remove any trace of blacklead. Loose tiles should be 



d by Google 



VARIOUS RECIPES, *c. 1^ 

lifted out. the dirt underneath cleared out, and the tiles 
reset witn a little thin plaster of Paris. When the 
floor of a room gives to the tread, the tiles are sure to 
come loose. ^les stained with plaster, paint, &o., 
should be scoured three or four days successively with 
strong brine, in which beef or pork has been pickled. 
Any butcher will supply this. 

Tortoiseshell, to Be-polish. — Scrape any scratched 
marks with the edge of a knife rubbed down on a stone 
to a very obtuse angle. Next polish the shell with a 
dry flannel dipped in a paste of fine charcoal and water, 
then with a paste of precipitated whiting and vinegar, 
and finally rub up the sh^l well with the palm of the 
hand dusted with precipitated whiting ; or rub the shell 
up well with rottenstone fuid oil, next with jewellers' 
rouge, and lastly with a chamois leather. 

Whitewash. — As accidents will happen in the most 
particular households, it is well to know how to make 
this, as abroad it is not always easy to find a skilled 
decorator. The following well-tried recipe, given by an 
American lady, is excellent and lasting: For a small 
ceiling slake a quarter of a bushel or unslaked lime 
with Doiling water, and cover it up closely. To this 
add half a peck of salt previously dissolved in warm 
water, and next l^lb. of ground rice smoothly mixed 
and boiled to a rather thin paste, stirring this into the 
wash while still at boiling heat. Lastly stir in 4oz. 
powdered Spanish white, and ^Ib. of glue previously 
melted in warm water. Stir this all well together^hen 
let it stand untouched for four or five days. When 
ready to use it, reheat it and use whilst hot. The 
ceiling should be first well swept, and lastly well washed 
before applying the whitewash. A rougher form of 
whitewash is made by using lime alone, without the 
ground rice. This is excellent for disinfecting purposes. 
Ordinary whitewash is made by soaking plain whiting 
in water for twelve or fourteen hours, then adding about 
half a pint of size for every two and a half gaSons of 
whitewash, to prevent its coming off, as whitewash so 
often does. All these washes may be coloured to taste 
with yellow ochre, Venetian red, rose pink, Brunswick 
green, stirred in like the Spanish white given in the 
first reoii>e. The great thing is to add the colour very 
gradually and in small quantities, to get the precise 
shade you wi^ for. 

Windows, to Clean. — ^Windows should never be 

K 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



130 HOtJSEHOLD HINTS. 

cleaned on wet, foggy, frosty, or very sunshiny days, 
and once begun the work must be carried throush a^- 
once, or the result will be unsatisfactory, especially if 
water is used in the cleansing. The usual prooees is 
this: Well dust the windows both inside and out, and 
wash the woodwork. Next wash well with a doth or 
leather wrung out of tepid water to which you haye 
added a spoonful of either ammonia or paraffin, setting 
well into the comers; then dry with a clean dusttur. 
Mind that any cloths used in window washing are not 
fluffy, or they will spoil the result. Then polish either 
with a clean cloth or leather, or, better stitl, with pads 
of soft newspaper. In winter it is better to use no 
water, but to rub whiting slightly moistened with water 
or methylated spirit on to the glass with a flannel, and 
then polish with two leathers, or clean, soft newspaper. 

Faint Stained, — ^Paint or putty splaahes may 

be removed by rubbing them with strong, hot vinegar. 

Steaming or Freezing. — ^When the windows 

are perfectly cleaned, soak a piece of cotton rag in pure 
glycerine, and apply this all over the window on the 
inside ; then with a clean, drjr ra^ polish the whole pane 
lightly all over till the glycerine is invisible, though not 
actually all removed. This will give a brilliant, lasting 
polish, and saves all risk of condensation, or " sweating," 
which occurs in rooms whose ventilation is defective, 
and there is not sufficient fresh air admitted to preveni^ 
the clouding of the glass. The room should be fairly 
warm and quite dry when the glycerine is applied. Mnch 
less window cleaning is needed u servants are careful to 
keep the insides of the panes thoroughly dusted and 
polished with whiting or the glycerine. 



d by Google 



INDEX. 



Allowances, 4-6 

bftcon, 8, 14 

beer, 15 

bread, 7, 14 

butter, 7, 14 

cMidlet, oil, &e., 12 

cereals, 36 

cheese, 12, 14 

coals, 13, 14, 15 

cocoa. and coffee, 6, 14, 36 

food, 6, 7 

groceries, 15 

meat, 8-11, 14 

milk, 7, 14 

potatoes, 11, 15 

soap, 12 

sugar, 7, 14, 36 

tea, 6, 14, 36 

▼egetables, 11, 12 

washing, 15 

wood, 13, 15 
Ashes, 13 

Ayerage household expense, wages, Ac, 8 
Bath, to clean, 90 

to heat, 13 

water, hot, 83 



d by Google 



132 INDEX. 

Beds, care of, 74-78 

to make, 75 
Bedsteads, to clean, 78 
Blankets, to wash, 77 
Boiler, 83 

Bottles, to clean, 90 
Brashes, to clean, 90 
Butter, to preserve, 92 

to test, 92 
Chamois leather, to wash, 65, 92 
China, stained, to cleanse, 71 

to wash, 70 
Cinders, 13 
Cinder sifter, 14 
«* Cloths," 52 

nursery, 52 

" silver," 68 

tea, glass, &c., 88 
Credit v. ready money, 16 
Dinner, to order, 84 

menus, 85 
Dish and pot washing, 87 
Drains, to flush, 86 

to test, 87 
Dusthole, 86 
Eau de Javelle, 124 
Eggs, to preserve, 92 

to test, 93 
"Egg shell gloss," 97 
Eiderdo¥ms, to wash, 93 
Filters, 93 
Footwarmers, 93 
Frames, gilt, to clean, 74 
Frozen meat, to thaw, 93 

pipes, &o,, 94-96 
Furniture, bruised, 98 

Buhl, 98 

cream, 96 



d by Google 



INDEX. 133 



Furniture, Japanese, to polish, 97 

liquenr or syrup stained, 99 

oak, 97-99 

old, to revive, 97 

panels, incombustible, 99 

pitch pine, 98 

worm-eaten, 98 
Furs, to store, 104 
Gas stove, to clean, 83 
Glass decanters, 71, 72 

flower vases, 73 

lamp globes, 72 

milk or gravy stained, 71 

to wash, 71 

various kinds of, 71 
Glue for tins, 35 
Hot-water bottles, 34 
Insect and Other Pests — 

ants, 99-100 
„ red, 100 

beetles, Ac, 100-101 

earwigs, 103 

fleas, &o., 101 

flies, 102 

fly-papers, 102 

mice and rats, 105 

midgres, mosquitoes, 103 

moth, 104 

" silvertails," 105 

slugs and snails, 106 

wasps and hornets, 105 
Ivory, to clean, 106 
Kitchen, 81 

pots, &c., to clean, 84, 87 

ranges, 81, 83 

range smells, 82, 83 
„ to clean, 81, 82 

requisites, 88 



d by Google 



134 INDEX. 

Knives, 72 

iyory handled, to clean, 73 
plated, to clean, 69, 70 
stained, 73 
to clean, 73 
to wash, 72 
Lace, gold, to clean, 107 
silver, to clean, 107 
to clean, 107 
valuable old, 106 
Lamps, 12, 56 

amount of oil for, 61 
burners for, 59, 60 

„ to clean, 59 
chimneys, 61 
containers, 61 
lighting, 58 
oil for, 57 
stoves, 56, 60 
to clean, &c., 56 
treatment of, 57 
wick for, 58 
" worthless," 59 
Larder, 40 

to clean, 41 
Leather, to renovate, 108 
Linen — 

badly washed, 53 
book, 47 
cupboard, 46 

„ position of, 46 

„ to fit up, 47 

d'oyleys, 49 
damask, 51 
dishing-up cloths, 49 
eiderdowns, &c., 49 
bouse flannel, 49 
marking and mending, 54 



d by Google 



INDEX. 135 

LiNBM (continued) — 
mattress oases, 49 
napkins, 48 

„ fish, 49 
qnantity, 48, 49 
quilts, 48 

sideboard cloths, 49 
sheets, 48 
tablecloths, 48 

„ kitchen, 49 

teacloths, five o'clock, 49 
tea, glAss, knife, and kitchen cloths, 49 
toilet covers, 48 
towels, 48 
„ bath, 48 
roller, 49 
tray cloths, 49 
weekly allowance of, 50-53 
window screens, 48 
V. cotton, 51 
Marble, to clean, 74 

alabaster, to clean, 109 
black, 110 
stained, 109 
to re-polish, 109 
Mats, cocoannt, to clean, 110 

straw, to clean, 110 
Mattui}?, to clean, 110 

stained. 111 
Mattresses, care of, 76 

to clean, 76 
Meals, 5 
Measures, 41-45 
British, 41-42 
foreign, 43 
fruit, Slo.j 43 
substitutes for, 42 
varieties, 43 



d by Google 



136 INDEX. 

Metals, to Clean — 
aluminium, 111 
armour, old, 111 
brass, 74, 111, 112 

„ lacquered, 73, 112 
Britannia, 113 
bronze, 112-113 
copper, 113, 114 

„ boiler, 113 
Ind. or Benares, 113 
ormolu, 114 
pewter, 114-115 
plate, 62-67 
steel, 115-117 

„ gprates, 116 
tin, 117 
zinc, 117 
Milk, to sterilize, 117 
Mirrors, to clean, 74 
Oil for lamps, 57 

amount needed, 61 
cheap, dangerous, 57 
flash point, 57 
Onion water, 74, 118 
Paint, to clean, 118 

smell, to remove, 118 
Paperhanger's paste, 118 
Papier mache, to clean, 118 
Plate, 62-70 
basket, 63 

black or neglected, 68 
camphor for, 63 
candlesticks, 69 
dinted, 63 
discoloured, 68 
dishes, to re-heat, 70 
entree dishes, stained, 70 
frosted, 65 



d by Google 



INDEX. m 

Plati (continued) — 

lime solntion for, 64 

oxydised, 65 

Sheffield, 64 

" sUver cloth " for, 68 

" ailver soap " for, 63 

soap jelly for, 65, C6 

teapot, 64 

to clean, 62, 66, 67 

to wash, 62, 63, 65, 70 
Salt, to use, 119 
^Scullery, 85 

refuse pail for, 80 

^BBVANTS — 

bntler, 29 
character, 19 

„ priyileged, 20 
charity, 23, 24 
cook, 24, 25 

„ housekeeper, 24 

„ general, 25 

„ good plain, 25 

„ professed, 25 
doctor and medicine, 21 
dress, 31, 32 
duties, 23 

engagement of, 18-20 
followers, 23 
footman, 29 
hall, or parlour, 80, 81 

„ boy, 30 
holidays, 23 
housekeeper, 23 
ilkiess, 20, 21 

„ master's liability for, 21 
lunches, 5 
maid, house, 26, 55, 56, 74 

„ „ utensils, 79 

L 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



138 INDEX. 

Servants (continued)—^ 
maid, kitchen, 25 
„ lady's, 28 
„ young lady's, 28 
. „ nursery, 27 

„ parlour, 25, 55, 70 
„ „ utensils for, 7S 

,, schoolroom, 28 
„ scullery, 25, 87 
„ "tweeny," 26 
„ *' useful," 28 
man, single-handed, 29 
meals, 5 

month's notice, 20 
nurse, 27 
perquisites, 10, 21 
precedence, 32 
rooms, 30 
valet, 30 
wages, 30, 31 
Sink, 85 

basket, 87 
. lead, to clean, 85 
to flush, 85 
Skins, to cure, &c., 121, 122 

rugs, to wash, 122 
Soap jelly, 66 
silver, 68 
soft, to make, 119 
Stag's antlers and horns, 120 
Stains — 

blacklead, 122 
[ bilUard table, 122 
bricks, 123 
chintz, 123 
Condy, 123 
fruit, 123 
grease, on globes, 124 

Digitized byCjOOQlC 



INDEX. 139 



Stains (continued) — 

ink, on all materials,. 125 
„ marking, 126 

ironmoald, 126 

leather, greased, 108 
„ inked, 108 

mildew, 127 

paint, 118, 127 

paraffin, 126 

parquet, 126 

sugar or syrup. 127 

tea, coffee, &o., 127 

wallpaper, 128 

whitewash, 128 
Stone floors, to clean, 120 

steps, to clean, 120 
„ to redden, 121 
Tablecloths, damask, 51 

size of, 51 

under, 51 
Terra-cotta, to clean, 128 
Tiles, to clean, 128 
Tortoiseshell, to polish, 129 
Whiting, to precipitate, 67 
Whitewash, 129 
Windows, paint-stained, 130 

steaming, or freezing, 130 

to clean, 129 



d by Google 



d by Google 






s 
nitlt, 

RTRAIT8 
vND 
JBJBCTS : 

don. 

e. 

jle. 




d by Google 




by Google 



d by Google 



THE Q^SIH. 

THE 

l^alig's Newspaper anli Court (S:\txonitlt, 

GlVINO FULL-PAOB ENQRAVIN08 OF SYIHTS, AHD PORTRAITS 

OF DISTINQUISHBD PERSONS. ALSO ARTICLES AHD 
FT7LL IHFORMATION RELATING TO THE FOLLOWIHO SUBJECTS : 

Dress and Fashion. 

Court Chronicle. 

Society. 

The Naturalist. 

The Work Table. 

The Boudoir. 

The Housewife. 

Personal. 

The Exchange, &c. 

Several Coloured Plates of Newest Paris Fashions 
are g^ven the first week in each month. 



The Library. 

Music and Musicians. 

Pastimes. 

The Garden. 

The Tourist. 

Lawn Tennis and Croquet. 

Leading Articles. 

Miscellaneous Articles. 

Gazette des Dames. 



Price Sixpence. By Post 6^. 



"QUE 
WINDSOR HOUSE 





BROO 

MONKEY 

SOA 

CLEANS. SCOURS, AN 

POTS, PANS, and all COOK 

FOR ALL HOUSEHOLD i 

MONKEY B 

WOFT WASH CI( 

LEVER BROTHERS IIMITED, Port toii 

The name "LEVER" o„so.pfe. 
o«P"rityafldE,eeli;„ct 



""'^'^'^^^ ^" 



Google 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book lhal w;ls preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as pari of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one thai was never subject 

to copy right or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often dillicull lo discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher lo a library and linally lo you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud lo partner with libraries lo digili/e public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order lo keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial panics, including placing Icchnical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make n on -commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request thai you use these files for 
personal, non -commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort lo Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each lile is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use. remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is slill in copyright varies from country lo country, and we can'l offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull lexl of 1 1 us book on I lie web 
al |_-.:. :.-.-:: / / books . qooqle . com/| 



W UL-O-JjM 



/ 



JoQ 



) 



1/ 



/ 



V I 



THE " QUEM w COOK£ET BOOKS 



IE "|Bf 








s. litTT-^ rjf,:,; 




< < 



HOBACE COX. 

Quii5 M office. Ti5??ox ho 



51, 



19CU. 



THF Nf-'V YORK 

367444B 

AST-;:*., u:si/:i and I 

TILDES FOUNDATIONS J 
R 1946 L I 



LONDON 

I 
PRIKTED BT HORACE COX, WINDSOR HOUSE. BREAM'S BUILDINGS, B.C. 



J PREFACE. 



^ Little, if any, originality is claimed for the 

>> following recipes, most of which have appeared in 

Vftthe Cookery columns of the Queen daring the 

'vlast eight or nine years, from whence they have 

Abeen collected at the request of many readers of 

the Queen, to save reference to back numbers not 

^always within reach. Additional recipes have, bow- 

Lq ever, been given, to bring this little work as much 

^41 up to date as possible; but all these, like the 

V previous ones, have been carefully tested, and are 

Q/all (as I know from practical experience) well within 

1 the capacity of any ordinary "good plain cook," 

3 gifted with fair intelligence and a little goodwill. 

W desire also to take this opportunity of acknow- 



M 



lodging my indebtedness to the various authors of 
standard foreign cookery books, and also to offer 
my grateful thanks to Mrs. A. 8. Marshall, and 
several other well-known chefs, whose kindness 
has so materially helped and rendered possible my 
work in these last years. 

S. Bbatt-Powkall. 

June, 1904. 



CONTESTS. 




CHAPTER L 


P*0* 


Entries and Rechauffes 


• • • • Af 


CHAPTER H. 




Cutlets, Fillets, Ac. ... 


... 2 


CHAPTER m. 




Cutlets, Ac. (Continued) 


... »»♦ 


CHAPTER rV. 




Souffles, Mousses, Ac. 


... « 


CHAPTER V. 




Timbales, Yol-aa-Vest, Patties, Ac. 


... *4 


CHAPTER VI. 




Unclassed Entrees 


... 101 


CHAPTER VIL 




Rachauffes 


11* 


CHAPTER Vm. 




Rechauffes (Continued) 


... m 


CHArTER EC. 




Chaufroix, and other Cold Bisks* 


r# * e# Iw* 1 


CHAPTER X. 




Chaufroix, Ac. (Continued) 


1*7 


CHAPTER XL 




ft^SjBj ls\w^7D • • • ••» » r • » * » r * • #■ » #■ Pl 


... 189* 


CHAPTER XIL 




Odds and Ends ... 


221 



Advertisements, 



The Largest Mustard Manufacturers in the World. 



COLMAN'S MUSTARD. 

Ask for Di8.F. 9 with the yellow label, and see that 
COLMAN'S name and the Bull's Head are on the tin. 



Obtained the GRAND PRIX, Paris Exhibition, 1900. 



COLMAN'S CORN FLOUR, 

For BLANC MANGES, CUSTARDS, Ac. 
Made by Beat Process from Rice, 



COLMAN'S SELF-RISING 

FLOUR. 

Made from the Piaeat Brandt of Wheat. 

For BREAD, PASTRY, CAKES, PUDDINGS, 

SCONES, <&c. 



J. & J. Coliyian Ltd., 

18, Cannon Street, London, E.G., & Carrow Works, Norwich. 




CHAPTER L 

ENTREES AND RECHATJTFE8. 

Originally entrees were often, and indeed at first 
almost always, called h>rw eteemwrey or, as one mii^ht 
paraphrase it, " by the way dishes " ; not included in 
the actual menu, bat simply trifles brought in " to 
amuse the guests" whilst waiting for the serious 
ports of the dinner, termed relent*, or remove3, as 
-we call these main dishes for want of a better word. 
Hors d'ceuTre were at first both hot and cold, but; 
gradually that name was restricted to the cold trifles 
sent in as a whet to the appetite ; whilst the word 
entree was used for the hot dishes. For this word 
there is no actual equiralent in our language, 
though some people do call them side-dishes and 
made-dishes. To translate it literally we must call 
these, "brought-in" dishes, a somewhat awkward 
term, but one which derives soma meaning from th<* 
fact that entrees were brought in with all the.ir 
accessories, such as sauce, garnish, &c, on the aivm* 



2 ENTRIES. 

dish; and though fashion has since permitted the 

addition of sauces to be handed round (to allow of 

variety of tastes) with many little dainties that are 

properly served dry, the name of entrees has been 

retained. The uncertainty as to their name also 

extended to their position on the menu, which 

wandered about, first appearing before, then after 

the soup ; then they were placed, as they still are 

often in France, after the joint, whereas in England 

the fancy obtained of making them serve as an 

introduction to the joint or releve. Much may be 

said for both services, though personally the French 

method appeals to me most, for two reasons. First, 

the keen edge of the hungry diner's appetite being 

taken off by the solid releve*, he is better able to 

appreciate the delicacy of the little dishes which 

constitute an entree ; in the second place, in England 

joints are generally roasted, so that if the joint is 

served after the entries two roasts clash, the roast 

game, or rot, of the second course coming on top of 

the equally roasted joint, a collision which is avoided 

by the French system. 

We have so modified the old way of serving food 
that we have considerably reduced our dinners, and 
indeed a good many of us would shudder and give 
up in despair were we expected to work our way 
through the solid bill of fare of former days, when 
everything was doubled, if not (in the case of 
entrees and sweets) actually quadrupled. Now a 
dainty dinner will often consist of soup or fish, one 
or perhaps two entries, a roast bird of some kind, a 
sweet (preferably iced), and a savoury, " and there 



ENTRIES AND RtCHAUFFJiS. 3 

an end," as Pepys has it in his most fascinating 
diary, which, by the way, is a storehouse of quaint 
culinary and gastronomic ideas. 

Another fancy has arisen amongst us, and that is 
the taste for cold dishes, a fancy which, however, 
chiefly affects the temperature of the smaller or 
"kick-shaw" part of the meal, such as entrees, 
sweets, and savouries. Now there is a good deal to 
he said for this fancy, from the point of view of the 
economic housewife with a limited kitchen staff. 

Cold dishes can be prepared beforehand, while 
there is leisure to bestow the time and care such 
dainty trifles demand if they are to be a success, 
and please remember that unless an absolute success, 
in however simple a way, such things do not justify 
their existence. What should we think of a woman 
who tried to atone for the inferior material and bad 
cut of her dress by a quantity of discordant and 
carelessly adapted trimming ? Such a sight is not 
uncommon one ruefully admits, but still I repeat 
my question, what would be our opinion of the 
wearer were we in the Palace of Truth ? Yet many 
a woman who would shudder at such barbarous 
dressing is guilty of taste just as deplorable in the 
service of her table. If cookery is to be even decent, 
much more " high class " (to use the jargon of the 
day), both material and preparation must be good. 
A sloppy sauce redolent of the cruet stand, with a 
plentiful sprinkling of black shoe leather cut in 
snippets, encircling some badly trimmed thin loin 
chops smothered in greasy bread crumbs, is not 
improved by being called " cotelettes a la Perigueux," 

b 2 



4 ENTRIES. 

or any other high sounding name evolved from a 
half forgotten cookery book or the imagination of 
the person entrusted with the • menu. Difficult 
though such " good cooks " may find it to believe, 
those who consume (or try to do so) these weird 
dishes would gladly exchange them for a plain but 
carefully cooked chop and a floury potato. 

Little dishes, such as entrees, may be an actual 
economy, and are certainly a pleasant relief, 
especially in hot weather, from the heavy, soKd 
joints popularly supposed to constitute our national 
fare; but before allowing her cook to send such 
things to table the mistress should take care that 
her cordon bleu has mastered the foundations of her 
profession. She should be taught the difference 
between a chop and a cutlet ; that between steak and 
a fillet of beef ;- the various ways of cooking meat, 
such as boiling, frying, roasting, stewing, broiling, 
braising, &c, and also be taught approximately to 
gauge the appearance, more or less, of a dish from 
reading a recipe. For this purpose the four great 
sauces should be distinct entities to her, and she 
should be able perfectly to differentiate between 
bechamel and veloute, or between brown and 
Espagnole (or Spanish) sauce. Now this is no 
recondite matter in reality. Veloute is sauce made 
precisely like melted butter, only using plain and 
fairly colourless stock instead of water, with the 
result that veloute if properly made has always a 
soft creamy tinge ; thus distinguishing it from 
bechamel, which is prepared by using either milk 
alone or white stock and milk mixed, instead of the 



ENTRIES ASB R&CHAUPF&L 5 

water of melted butter. For brown, stock you allow 
the flour and butter, which is the basis of the sauce, 
to colour till it is of a soft light brown (be careful it 
does not burn or cook too quickly, as in this case it 
would have black spots through it, and all but 
certainly acquire a bitter taste that no subsequent 
dosing with wine, Harvey, or Worcester sauce will 
either remove or even disguise), and then dilute it 
with dark-coloured nicely flavoured stock. White 
sauces depend for their flavour a good deal on the 
little additions made to them in the process of 
fipwhiT><T off, as they are developed into their separate 
divisions ; but brown sauce must taste fairly strongly 
of good, well flavoured stock, though no actual 
distinctive flavouring must be permitted when it is 
simply to serve as the foundation of richer and 
more intricate sauces, such as poivrade, brown 
Italienne, Ac. Eapagnole, on the contrary, is of 
itself a somewhat strongly flavoured sauce, a slice or 
two of lean ham or bacon, a sliced tomato, and a few 
sprays of parsley, thyme, bayleaf , «ic, being allowed 
to fry with the initial butter and flour, or roux, as it 
is technically called. The stock added to this 
should have had a slice of ham or smoked lean 
bacon, some green onions, a little sherry, and a good 
bouquet boiled with it to flavour or " perfume " it, 
and the whole is boiled together till the sauce haa 
reduced a fourth part, botn to intensify its flavour 
and to give it more substance. This point is oru* 
not sufficiently attended to by British cooks, wh*> 
resort to the traditional "bit of butter rubbed in 
flour," and the stock adjuncts of the cruet fttaad, 



6 ENTRfiES. 

give tiieir sauces the body and savour of the properly 
made foreign ones, thus meeting with the fate of 
those too ignorant or careless to start their work in 
the right way, a proceeding that invariably brings 
its own punishment in the shape of extra trouble. 

Having mastered these details, the cook will soon 
find that veloute, or velvet sauce (as its name would 
run in English, from the smoothness to which it is 
brought when properly made), will be the foundation 
of such white sauces as need not be absolutely snow 
white ; such as allemande (veloute enriched at the 
last with egg yolks lightly beaten up with a little 
new milk or cream, and made with stock rather 
fully flavoured by boiling mushrooms or their 
"trimmings in it) ; Indienne (veloute* finished off at 
the last with a good piece of fresh butter rubbed up 
with as much good curry powder as it will take up, 
just allowed to boil and then finished off with the 
*gg and milk liaison) ; pascaline (a good sauce for 
hashed lamb by the way, made by adding a gill of 
colourless stock made from the lamb bones, to three- 
quarters of a pint of veloute, boiling the whole 
down a fourth part with some chopped shallot and 
mushroom peelings, then straining or tammying it, 
and finishing with the egg and milk liaison, lemon 
juice, and finely minced parsley and mushrooms), 
<fcc. ; whereas the milk white bechamel would be the 
foundation of sauce a la creme, or blanquette, when a 
good slice of lean ham and a bay leaf are simmered 
for twenty to thirty minutes in about three-quarters 
of a pint of bechamel till reduced a fourth, then 
tammied or sieved, and finished off like the pascaline 



I3TEBOE AXD Mfc* "-^^ i »*w<i* 




tonal dep«e.ic»sLiia: 2. 

Bo ylrasf ower** 1tt: if jot *a*xmtt it> 
Anirtzm yonr dishee itt higi; son&distfr nasnui . such 
-•ill lead «*erx eamuaaKiir before whoki wn 
^ pot ibenL -&> expect ***sj oehnxut resuii*, aed 
to resent srteosrdingij snj foeepi*oxi m ibe n&x&x, 
however xmeonsciaitf on jour jttrt. A s&nkisjg 
exuaple of tiiis k%> te? found in a. disc more often 
seen nentkmed an menus than produced an li*e 
tahfe, nmmehr^ vtrjyrwe de *f»2aaZZ£. Far ihk the 
vaeoafced breasts of f curie ««*f be used, whilst lor 
the anee job require & xerj tarehilrr made Telouie, 
produced from delieafcerj flavoured chicken stock, 
which is thickened at the last with rich GreanL & dash 
of lemon juke, -and airj addenda in harmon j with the 
garnish from which it takes its name. Directions 
for this dish will be ghen amongst the recipes later 
on, so it need not be insisted an further, save to 



8 ENTRIES. 

remark that no one knowing anything of cookery 
will accept contentedly a fricassee of chicken, how- 
ever good of its kind, as a substitute for the 
supreme mentioned on the menu! Though under 
its proper name those same critics would very likely 
have praised it warmly. 

So much for hot sauces. Next the cold sauces, 
required for chaufroix and other cold dishes, must bo 
considered. These in the present day the average 
44 good cook " generally produces by mixing to a 
given proportion of any sauce required a certain 
amount of aspic jelly in a state of liquefaction ; the 
two are then boiled—or not boiled, as the cook 
fancies — till somewhat reduced, when they are 
poured over the article to be covered or " masked " 
(as it is technically termed), when just on the point 
of setting. Now this certainly produces a very nice 
liquid for masking purposes — especially when the 
reduction has been attended to — but for high class 
cookery such a sauce tastes too strongly of vinegar 
to be judged altogether correct by the gourmet. If 
you are giving a dish, say, of quails en aspic, then by 
all means use this aspic-stiffened sauce ; but where 
it is simply a case of a chaufroix, the sauce chosen 
should be thickened by reduction or boiling-in till 
stiff enough to coat any piece of meat, <fcc., by its 
own density. This is the truly correct method as 
practised by first rate chefs, who do not need to 
consider time, expense, or work; but where these 
have to be taken into account, even first rate chefs 
nowadays admit the addition of a little isinglass 
or the pure leaf gelatine (such as Mrs. A. B. 



ENTRIES AND R£CHATJTF£& 9 

Marshall's) to the coating liquid, to ensure its 
adhering erenly and smoothly. About |oz. to f oz. 
of the gelatine to the pint of sauce will be sufficient, 
according to the density to which you hare reduced 
the latter. This addition, though giving body and 
adhesiveness to the sauce does not affect its flavour 
as would aspic, which always, from its nature, must 
impart a strong acid taste to whatever it is mixed 
with. So I would ask my readers to understand 
that unless the word aspic is mentioned in connec- 
tion with any dish where chaufroix is named, it 
implies that the sauce — whatever it* nature — is 
simply stiffened with from £oz. to ^oz, of Mm, 
A. B. Marshall's leaf gelatine to the pint of sauce. 
This gelatine being added at the last, just before 
the sauce is tammied or sieved, and allowed to 
dissolve thoroughly in it. 

Before concluding this chapter a few word* or so 
must be said regarding garnishes. It cannot be 
denied that of late these have been fearfully over- 
done, with the result that in many cases it is 
absolutely impossible to tell tbe nature of the dish 
set before one. I am not now alluding to those awful 
specimens of how " not to do it," exhibited occasion- 
ally by over clever, but fifth-rate cooks, who torture 
a nice quiet shoulder of mutton into the semblance 
of a hideous duck, with glass eyes and a gruesome 
tail of shred sinews ; or who send up one's much 
longed-for ice in the form of a c a idle with a wick 
of burnt almond, in a (sham) Dresden candlestick !) 
Such tjiings are all very well for a wager, but are 
not high class cookery, in any shape or form. 



10 ENTRIES. 

Every dish should be as daintiiy served and 
decorated as is consistent with its nature, and with 
the least amount of handling. Any garnish that 
suggests the "pawing" (I can use no more refined 
phrase) of one's food is distasteful, and no amount 
of so-called decoration will make up to the connois- 
seur for the repulsion such dishes evoke! Some 
years ago there was a craze (American I believe in 
origin) for coloured dinners, when every dish had 
to bear its share of a certain fixed scheme of colour. 
Now, such an idea is all very well when the colour 
chosen can be obtained naturally, as, say, a red and 
green, or a brown and cream mixture ; but when it 
comes to the host's liveries, or the hostess's toilette 
being matched by the menu, it is carrying the idea 
too far, and is an atrocity one must admit, sorrow- 
fully, that women alone could have inaugurated. 
Their food is far too serious a thing with men to 
put it at the mercy of any colouring bottles, however 
harmless. For savoury dishes, red, brown, cream, 
green of various shades, and yellow, can all be pro- 
duced readily by the us'e of various vegetables, eggs, 
milk, &c, not to mention prawns, caviare, olives, 
&c, without dragging in all kinds of extraneous 
matter, tasteless at best, but very often utterly 
subversive of the original dish to which they are 
added. 

Finally, a few words must be said with regard to 
rechauffe's, from which some of the daintiest, if also 
the homeliest entrees can be produced. The great 
secret in preparing these is care. The British cook 
reads rechauffe, and correctly too as far as that 



ENTREES AND R£CHAUFF£S. 11 

goes, as " heated up," or " warmed over," to use 
her own detestable phrase, when she does not offer 
the even more repulsive " hotted-up." If properly 
prepared, meat is often nicer the second day than 
the first, for many things gain by keeping. Take 
curry for instance, always (if properly made) better 
the second day than the first ; whilst a stew, or a 
fricassee, not to speak of a hash, is immensely 
improved by the prolonged steeping of the meat in 
its gravy, on the condition, of course, that it is 
never allowed to re-boil in the course of its re- 
heating. Our ancestors knew this when they 
cherished those delicious hash dishes of theirs with 
their dainty little spirit lamps under them, and the 
outer hot- water jacket often seen with them ; these 
same dishes, by the way, have been reintroduced 
from America as novelties, under the name of 
*' chafingdishes." Any persons possessing one of 
these articles have only themselves to blame if ihe 
hash is a failure. Try it this way and it is sure to 
be a success, if only the directions are carefully 
followed out : Hfive ready some nicely made brown 
sauce (if the meat is brown, say mutton), add to 
this a few drops of essence of anchovy, a very little 
Harvey (for table cookery cruet sauces are per- 
missible), a tiny squeeze of lemon, a dust of cayenne 
or coralline pepper, and, lastly, a little, very finely- 
minced parsley and chives or shallot. Lay the meat 
into this and leave it to steep, covered, till the dish 
is wanted ; then light the lamp, and let it all just 
not come to the boil, and serve at once. This will 
be found a very different dish from the hash as 



12 ENTRIES. 

ordinarily understood. White meat can be heated 
in the same way, only using white instead of brown 
sauce, flavouring it with lemon juice and peel, a 
very few drops of chilli vinegar, and a little mush- 
room ketchup, being careful to keep the colour, by 
the addition of a spoonful or two of new milk or 
cream, to a very pa'e cream' if it is not actually 
white, which it can easily bo if bechamel be used 
for the foundation instead of veloute. A salmi of 
game is made in precisely the same way, the only 
secret lying in the flavouring. 

It is difficult to class entrees very definitely as the 
various kinds are apt to run into one another. For 
instance, chicken fillets are frequently served on a 
border of quenelle meat, or farce ; or cutlets are 
finished off with a financiere ragout, &c. 

Moreover, it must be remembered that entries 
are not necessarily always made of meat, but can be 
prepared from fish or vegetables, but such dishes 
will be given separately in the series set apart for 
these. 






Www **yetssr *£osx£ c: a* c*ctL * ctt^-jir' -extsi- ma; u* 
aggfaH£Bra& at iter axLteht *1< cms- will &i* must 
sgadzr rfc- 3Bt3Ki iraiL wiuei. *lu* i;m* "UfefiL wwal 
wwL-^fac. nmrtMC Auonitl jliwji yt i* ciwaftn. ±tr xiu? 
pnrpBKv. at iai* m 'hmt iruar xi*t jmarnixmr o: ijc 

cscisfiE moss uninviting: £jt<rn^r ena^ei. xitf nasal. 
reBBesBMS* ijac 5«r yinr vmyxmr ii*r i#es: -enc at Out 
n&& tykst Ian. a* & th*- i± imr in i&? mnraar ebons 
is tfe pan Tegnirec. .Fran, lius araer th^ ku^tc 
to wufi - ^btt duK i**i*,. ir afcber warck xi*f 107 df 
tfe xite. J^cnr witi. & fibarx.. sat^er itwr knnV 
{Acre is a proper •entree kmie far Ink tmhtosk^ 
divide tht piece, if amaH. i*r & saaugiru <it*aae£ <ro* 
eiaunlj LaJf war brt^een xt»e i*«*es : if ihe nroxran 
is iarge. however, too wIL have i* f oliow xbe line dt 
the bone, onlr slighth- outside k. and thus ofoain a 
cutlet-shaped, but boneless slice of meat in between 
the two bones, which can be either set aside for otlrer 
purposes, or can be placed alternately when <\v\k*d» 
with the boned cutlets. Do not attempt to trim 
jour cutlets before separating them, as each should 
be prepared individually. When dirided oft\ ky 



14 ENTRIES. 

each cutlet on a wetted chopping board and beat or 
" bat " it out with either the side of the cutlet knife 
or with a cutlet bat, or, failing these, with the rolling 
pin ; only remember whatever you use must first be 
wetted with a little water. When properly batted 
out, the meat will Lave become a little spread out, 
and even with the edge of the bone. Now trim it 
neatly, removing all superfluous fat and skin, leaving 
only an even layer or border of the former about 
£in. thick all round as in Fig 1 ; then just where the 
lean meat stops make a straight cut right down to 
the bone, as at B D, and then clear the bone down 
to C from all flesh, skin, &c, scraping it nicely. 
"When all the cutlets have been trimmed in this way, 
the bones being all cut to an equal length and 
scraped till clean and" shining, remove the little bit 
of bone which is almost always left at the thicker 
end at F. A butcher does this with one sweep of his 
heavy knife, but for the amateur it is better to set 
the knife carefully on the right spot, and then 
separate off the bone by a sharp blow on the back 
of the knife with the rolling-pin. The illustration 
just mentioned shows the cutlet trimmed and un- 
trimmed. The shaded part from F to F shows the 
chine bone which the butcher should remove, whilst 
the rest of the shading from F to G- is what the 
cook must trim off. It is a matter of taste and 
expediency whether the meat is trimmed off by the 
straight line B D, or by the curved one E under- 
neath it. Cutlets thus trimmed may be broiled, 
sautes, or egged and crumbed and fried in the frying 
basket, as you please. Loin cutlets are occasionally 



CCTLETS, FILLETS, 1c. 



15 



chosen, as their flavour is considered by some people 
superior to the drier neck cntlete, and, moreover, 
they are undoubtedly lets wasteful, but, they need 
very careful trimming to make them presentable. 
Of late years the fashion has obtained in this case. 




Xj.4, 



of dispensing with the bone altogether. The loin 
of mutton answers to the surlohi of beef, and, like 
the latter, is finished with a T shaped bone, very 
easily removed in one piece if the loin has not been 
jointed. Now cut the cutlets in each case flush with 



f 



16 ENTREES. 

the bone, producing alternately a boned and a bone- 
less cutlet, all of the same thickness, and then care- 
fully remove the bones from the former; you will 
now have a chop as at Fig. 2. (You will see that, 
also like the surloin of beef, the loin of mutton 
possesses a miniature undercut (known in France as 
the filet mignon), shown at point A) Now bat 
this out as advised for cutlets. (Please remember — 
what too many cooks forget — that " batting " is not 
synonomous with mashing, but should be done 
gently and with discretion, or the cutlet, chop, or 
steak will be reduced to an unappetising and mangled 
mass of purplish red, anything but inviting, either 
to the eye or the palate.) When nicely batted, trim 
off all the skin, B B, together with as much of the 
fat as you judge convenient, either retaining all the 
undercut fat, and delicately skewermg it round the 
lean part (previously gently pressed into shape with 
the wet knife), as at Fig. 3, or. else removing it 
almost entirely, as at Fig 4. The latter is perhaps 
the best way of treating large mutton. The cutlets 
thus prepared are known as " n oisett es/ ' though 
strictly speaking the whole of the un3ercut is in 
French termed the "noix," and becomes noisettes 
when sliced straight down in rounds, or " filets 
mignons " when cut into longitudinal slices. These 
noisettes are also termed escalopes, grenadins, 
medallions, &c, according to the method of their 
serving, or at times, of their garnish ; at the same 
time, these latter terms are nowadays more frequently 
applied to beef or veal, or even fish, than to mutton. 
These noisettes may be cooked when trimmed, by 



CUTLETS, FILLETS, Ac. 17 

an y of the methods advised for cutlets, and fuller 
directions for their treatment are given below. 
Another method, and one much to be recommended 
when they are to be used cold en ekaufraix, or 
mayonnaise, is to have them stewed. For this 
purpose the whole of the best end of the neck or 
loin should be put into the pan with vegetables, 
stock, seasoning, spice, <fcc., and then gently braised 
till cooked, when it is lifted out and allowed to get 
quite cold. It is then cut into cutlets, and these are 
trimmed and serve*! egged and crumbed ; or coated 
with rich forcemeat on both sides ; either wrapped 
in paper cases (en papilottes) and broiled, or used 
cold as they are en chaufroix or en mayonnaise. 

By far the most difficult method of cooking cutlets 
is to broil them, and it is one that requires much 
practice, though at the same time it is well worth 
the trouble, as it is undoubtedly the most delicate 
way of serving them, the crisp, fresh, burnt taste, 
always characteristic of a broil, harmonising with 
and enhancing any garnish with which it may be 
served. The proper method is as follows : Have a 
delicately clean and bright gridiron, and rub its bars 
lightly with a morsel of suet ; see that your fire is 
clear as well as sharp ; then dip each cutlet singly 
in some hot butter, melted, or, better still, into good 
salad oil, and lay each on the grid, allowing the 
latter to be very near the fire at first so as to let the 
surface of the meat catch (though without actually 
burning), thus sealing up the pores, and keeping in 
the juice of the meat. Turn them frequently whilst 
cooking (they will take about eight to ten minutes), 

c 



18 ENTRIES. 

being very careful not to use a fork in the process, 
for if the meat is pricked all the juice will run out, 
and the cutlet will become like leather. If you have 
not proper cutlet tongs use two spoons, or stick the 
fork into the fat if any be left on. When ready to 
serve, the cutlets will be a dainty brown, with darker 
stripes showing the mark of the grid bars, and when 
cut they will be a nice pinky-rod inside and full of 
juice. To saute them, have a well buttered saute* 
pan, lay the cutlets in carefully, not overlapping or 
even touching, sprinkle them with a" few drops of 
wine, glaze, and a sprinkle of pepper, and cover 
them with buttered paper ; then let them cook over 
a clear fire, turning them once or twice in the 
process. These are often put into the oven and 
allowed to cook quietly in there, but care must be 
taken not to let them dry up. Cutlets can also bo 
stewed if a well-buttered pan is lined with sliced 
vegetables, a slice of ham, a bunch of herbs, and 
seasoning to taste ; the cutlets are laid in on the 
top of this, the pan being covered down, and the 
whole is allowed to fry for a minute or two till the 
vegetables, Ac, begin to colour a little ; a little stock 
is then poured in, a buttered paper laid over all, and 
the pan covered ; directly the stock is brought to 
the boil the pan is drawn to the side of the fire and 
the whole allowed to simmer (not to boil !), quietly 
and steadily, for an hour or so, after which they are 
lifted out and either put between two plates, on 
the top of which a weight is placed, to press them 
evenly (stewed cutlets are mostly used for chaufroix) 
or else dished with either their own gravy strained 



CUTLETS, FILLETS, Ac. 19 

and freed from fat, with any vegetable garnish yon 
please, or with any sauce and pure*e most suitable in 
the cook's eyes. A very dainty way of broiling 
cutlets is en papilottes — i.e., the trimmed cutlet is 
covered on both sides with any nice farce, such as 
sieved pate* de foie gras, a thick Villeroi sauce, or a 
puree of onions, mushrooms, <fcc, as you choose. 
Heart-shaped pieces of white paper are then oiled, 
the cutlets laid in, the paper folded over and tightly 
twisted-up at the edges, and the whole are broiled 
over a clear, bright fire for eight or ten minutes, and 
served as they are in their cases. 

If at any time a cutlet has to be cooked for an 
invalid, the following method, though distinctly 
costly, may be recommended: Cut three cutlets, 
two rather thinner than the third, which latter must 
be nicely trimmed ; tie the three together, and broil 
them over a clear, sharp fire till the outsides of the 
two outer cutlets are quite burnt, then lift them off, 
separate them, and the centre cutlet will be found 
just cooked to perfection, and if served at once, 
with a carefully boiled and very floury potato 
previously rubbed to snow through a clean sieve, it 
is difficult to suggest a nicer little dish for a 
convalescent. One point more regarding cutlets. 
Abroad mutton is almost invariably marinaded 
before been served as cutlets, noisettes, &c, and the 
reason is not far to seek. Such treatment would, 
however, be, with one exception, profanity for our 
dainty Welsh or juicy South Down mutton ; but 
for coarser (and, low be it whispered ! frozen) 
mutton it is an excellent plan. The usual marinade 

o 2 



20 ENTRIES. 

consists of oil and vinegar (four parts of oil to 
one of vinegar), a shallot or a small onion sliced, 
a bay leaf, ten or twelve peppercorns, a few cloves, 
a very tiny pinch of salt, a spoonful of minced 
parsley (or the broken up stalks may be more 
economically used, and are equally efficacious), a 
strip or two of lemon peel carefully freed from any 
white pith, and, if liked, a very few drops of garlic 
vinegar. The cutlets may be left in this for two to 
four hours, according to taste, after which they 
should be lifted out and well drained, but not wiped, 
and then cooked as you please. If you have a 
good deal of Welsh or other small mutton, the 
following marinade produces a delicious, venison- 
like dish of cutlets. Put into a pie-dish a wine- 
glassful (claret) each of port, vinegar, and mush- 
room ketchup, with a small sliced onion, a table- 
spoonful of currant jelly (which should have been 
dissolved in the above mentioned liquids), a few 
peppercorns, and a little mignonette pepper, with 
a dessertspoonful of minced thyme and marjoram. 
Let the meat soak in this, then drain, broil, and 
serve with a rich brown sauce to which you have 
added a share of the strained marinade. (N.B. — 
Cold roast mutton treated thus makes a dish for a 
king.) 

As economy is always associated with really good 
cooking, it may be observed that the cost of cutlets 
is materially lessened if the whole neck (scrag, best 
end and all) be taken, for then the trimmings from 
the cutlets added to the scrag will provide a tooth- 
some Irish stew, or a decidedly enticing haricot, or 



NaTMinfiB-IlimiimuTraiiitiat sntitsft sac ±** mxznB^L 
to taste at lsin& 

In France^ mike"* r Ua£ webul m smnpc^xtaL <r. 
rather, whew shsgs if zuaaz mawsL -±r*sL <r *aMl*> 
are to be serrofi. Tniosr -imc jshwl iit* iUtr m tum*a- 
in preference to dig- gazate im -wtusu&r w* onxan. oir 
steak, ile, tte irnng- nr^^rfmuLrwmi^m* iifriLirroia. 
considered s©tfcanfar n* "sh* rnesc Oflirw iron: vrwc w* 
know as the ^tEraSsrciEL ,; 3iiE-n Tiiqriwi iiiiaur *?mr 
is gained in tisD&EEn*5& v? *h» orawgentzir m umt xl 
flavour. H»w«wgrL'^friien yznam* line *w?usl fili^» 
of beef are fjcikKii aL "LiHr wis&L Txuiiercw x irnn#»ZF 
meant. At nib? sssm*r imifc. many t cjjoj: ipriifm* 
this, and qpuettaj Tsflisfi* jest mzLU. mnn or tunas- 
wise, by cosaicn*: n zx&i> "ia* T^uiirrec mmi* iiUL 
serving it with lis- a£srwjfl gttmfflT. Tiifi* miniiiL 
beef also is sarrc*! H*:ni i# jKLefc. prtmuu^Mt. Tu-.-uailnmL, 
noisettes, emcml&pDf^ £l- tun ix "sh*»* £&»<* liiie mem if 
usually more or ies* 2iir&?2L uaid jl kvj &&*£, ik 
smaller than th* jess jfreMartknas jfikzk. IVrn^j 
speaking, for J3aU tbe £jgi is set t*nt in cn>e }o**o^ 
and is then sliced in s. fcTsngiibig 4i2«efGE*an i# jo^noe 
small wedge-shaped sJlioes ; these are iksa pe^iperei 
and brushed over wilh, or dipped into. ^hx*! s&ibd 
oil or dissolved butter, and broiAed for esghi minm«s 
or so, turning them once or at most twice in the 
process ; they are then arranged on a Terr hot dish, 
and served with any vegetable garnish to taste. 
Usually a little savoury butter is spread on the dish, 
the fillets laid on this, and then a tiny ball of the 
6ame butter is placed on each fillet as it is to bo 
served, after it has been garnished with fried 



22 ENTRIES. 

potatoes, ribbon potatoes, or, indeed, potatoes in any 
shape or form, or any other vegetables you choose. 
More generally, however, in England, the fillet is cut 
into slices from £in. to fin. thick, and then stamped 
out with a cutter into rounds from 2in. to 2 Jin. in 
diameter. These are then batted out gently, and 
either broiled as above or sautes, i.e., each round is 
seasoned with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and a 
very little shallot, then laid in a well-buttered saute*- 
pan, sprinkled with a few drops of sherry and stock, 
covered with a buttered paper, and cooked over a 
sharp fire for five or six minutes, turning them only 
once in the process. They are then dished either 
en couronne or straight down the dish, and served 
with a garnish of turned olives stuffed with 
mayonnaise, or anchovy, or any other savoury butter; 
small glazed onions or carrots, broiled mushrooms, 
or tomatoes, &c, as you please; or if dished en 
couronne, they may be garnished outside with the 
vegetables and any rich brown sauce you please, the 
centre being filled up with horseradish cream, 
shrimp or oyster sauce, or any nice ragout to taste. 
These, of course, take their names from their garnish 
and sauce. Grlnadins are, properly speaking, pear- 
shaped (Fig. 5), and thickly and regularly larded, but 
they are more generally seen round-shaped, like the 
medallions, Fig. 6, which are smaller rounds, larded 
more sparsely, or round the edge only, with thin 
strips of French or larding bacon; whilst escalopes 
should be long, narrow strips ; but, as a matter of 
fact, the names are used pretty much indiscriminately 
according to the fancy of the chef. Lastly, there 



CUTLETS, FILLETS, Ac. 23 

are the tourne-dos, which derive their name, it is said, 
from the fact that they are usually tired with 
alternate slices of some other substance, ami, ■» t» 
speak, turn their backs on one another. Lik* 
noisettes, these tovme-doa are of somewhat modern in- 
vention, and the names only came, I believe, into tom- 




Kg- 5. 
mon use in the last half century. For larding, n*» v«ry 
fat, firm bacon, which should be kept in a cold placr, 
on ice, if possible ; cut this bacon into block* about 
l£in. to 2in. long, then slice these from |in, to Jin. 
thick, and cut these slices again into strips of the same 
width (these strips are called "lardoons"), beinjf 




Fig. 6. 

careful to see that these widths will fit the larding 
needle, a straight tube of metal tapering to a point 



24 



ENTREES. 



Fig. 7. 



at one end, and slit into four at the wider end (see 
Figs. 7 and 8 for the lardoon and the bacon-threaded 
larding needle). The size of the lardoons requires 
attention, for if they are too large to fit 
the needle they will be pressed out whilst 
being drawn through the meat, while, if 
too small, the needle will not keep its hold 
of them. 

It is evident that these dishes can be 
varied ad infinitum by changing the sauces 
and garnishes used for them ; for instance, 
arrange on a hot dish some nicely mashed 
potato, shaping these heaps into rounds 
flattened on the top, and on each of these 
place a delicately larded grenadin (of the 
round sort), and then fill up the top, by 
means of a rose pipe and bag, with a 
rosette of either sauco Cambridge, Caza- 
nova, or Creme Eaifort a l'Alceste and 
send to table at once ; these would mani- 
festly be grcnadins a la Cambridge, or 
Cazanova, or a l'Alceste, according to the 
sauco chosen. Or, again, choose pear- 
shaped, neatly larded grenadins, and dish 
them alternately with crisply fried crou- 
tons cut to match, and spread with 
anchovy butter, garnishing outside with 
Fig 8 scra P e< * horseradish, and filling the centre 
with oyster sauce, when they could be 
styled tournedo8 aux huitres, or a la Wliits&able, 
or aux Marennes, as you choose. Almost every 
chef adapts names in this way, as the fancy 






CUTLETS, FILLETS, &c. 25 

strikes liim, 'when Xe thinks of some slight varia- 
tion of an every day dish. Of coarse if this 
variation should happen to be somewhat out of the 
common, the name becomes known, and after a time 
passes into the kitchen vocabulary, where it takes a 
recognised place, like the Chateaubriand, and the 
cotelettes a la Reform, <fcc., but more often the fame 
is purely local and of transitory importance. In the 
ordinary good French menus special names, unless 
of first rank, are seldom given, the dish taking its 
name from the accessories and sauce which garnish 
it. This is an excellent plan, as it conveys far more 
idea of the nature of the dish than, say, cotelettes 
a la Sirdar, or filets d la presidente, both of which 
have ere now figured on menus de circonstanee. A very 
delicate yet nameless dish is made by mounting each 
little larded round of beef on a hot artichoke bottom, 
previously flavoured with white pepper and salt, a 
little minced tarragon, oil and vinegar, and then 
serving it with a very rich supreme sauce round it. 
Another variante is to broil the round and unlarded 
filet, and mount it on little mounds of rather stiff 
mushroom puree, placing just enough very firm 
mayonnaise on the top to fix there a turned olive 
stuffed with an anchovy preserved in oil, or a little 
anchovy butter. It should be remembered that a 
touch of savoury butter, anchovy especially, both on 
the dish and on the meat, adds enormously to the 
flavour of beef or mutton. For instance, try this : 
Have ready some croutons two or three sizes larger 
than your grenadins, lay on each of these a broiled 
slice of tomato, and on this again the delicately 



26 ENTRIES. 

broiled grenadin, with on the top a rosette of 
Perigord butter. As French women say, vous trien 
direz des nouvelles, if your cook has taken trouble 
with the dish. For this Perigord butter, mince 
down five or six good sized truffles, and cook them 
for a few minutes in a gill of Madeira or sherry with 
a seasoning of pepper ; pound these when cool in a 
mortar, with 4oz. of butter and half of a well 
washed anchovy till perfectly smooth, and use. 

Veal can be filleted like both beef or mutton, i.e., 

you can have cutlets of veal cut from the best end of 

the neck exactly as with mutton, and excellent these 

are ! Or, again, you can use the filet or undercut, 

or the fillet (in other words, the round), precisely 

as you would beef. The noisette is usually cut from 

the cushion or fillet, as may be also the escalopes, 

though these latter are more often cut in long 

narrow strips from the loin. Any of these forms 

of veal may be served broiled, stewed, braised, 

sautes, or in cases. Yeal in these small portions is 

almost invariably either barded or larded, t.e., it is 

either wrapped in thin slices of fat or larding bacon* 

or it is larded with tiny lardoons passed through the 

surface of the meat, as shown for grenadins, or 

passed straight through from side to side. Owing 

to the dryness of this meat it requires basting 

frequently, and should also at the last be brushed 

over with glaze and set in the oven for a minute 

or two to crisp this and also the lardoons, which, 

needless to say, should have been neatly trimmed. 

For fillets of fowl, you should take off the whole 
breast on each side of the breastbone, right down to 



CUTLETS, FILLETS, Ac. 27 

the wing joint, and then dice this neatly, according 
to the thickness and the size you wish your fillets to 
be. The best way to manage this is to slit the skiu 
of the bird right along the breastbone down to the 
neck, turning this skin well back as you do so ; slip 
the blade of the knife (which should be a pointed 
one) close down the breastbone on each side, free 
the meat from the merrythought, then lift the flesh 
from the breast to the base of the wing, of course 
keeping the knife close to the bone so that you can 
lift the meat off on each side in a solid piece thicker 
at one end than the other. Place each piece flat on 
a board, skinned side uppermost, then divide it 
lengthways into slices as nearly even in size and 
thickness as you can manage; a good large fo^l 
should yield about six of these slices from each side 
of the breast These fillets should be batted out 
precisely like cutlets (being careful not to bat them 
too heavily, or you will mash and consequently spoil 
them), and then pressed and trimmed with a wetted 
knife, rounding the broad and pointing the narrow 
ends to give them a cutlet shape. To cook these 
fillets they are generally laid on a well buttered 
baking dish lightly sprinkled with strained lemon 
juice and a very little white stock, then covered with 
* buttered paper and cooked from eight to ten 
minutes according to thickness, in a fairly hot oven. 
Fillets thus prepared can be used for all sorts of 
dishes, especially for the well-known (but seldom 
seen) Supreme de YolaiUe. This latter dish, though 
a very recherche one, is not so expensive as it 
sounds, as the legs can be grilled and devilled or 



2b ENTREES. 

else boned, stuffed with any delicate forced meat 
and braised, then served as Ballotines de Volaille (a 
very high, class and delicate little entree) on a bed of 
nicely mashed potatoes, chicken farce, or mushroom 
puree, as you please ; the rest of the flesh carefully 
picked from the bones and finely chopped, answers 
capitally for quenelles, souffle's, &c, whilst the bones 
will serve as a foundation for the Supreme sauce, or 
can be utilised in the stock pot, so that no part of 
the fowl is wasted. Any bird, game or otherwise, 
can be used in the same way. For lesser birds, such 
as pigeons, quails, &c, two other recipes are also 
followed. For the first, usually known as cutlets, 
the birds are boned (with the exception of the feet 
and leg bones), halved, seasoned to taste with 
pepper, salt, and mushrooms, chives, herbs, or spice 
according to the use they are to be put to, then 
fried or sautes in plenty of butter from three to five 
minutes, after which they are placed between two 
plates lightly weighted, and then left till cold. 
They are then masked with a layer of suitable farce, 
carefully smoothed over with a hot wet knife, 
brushed over with unbeaten white of egg, wrapped 
neatly in a piece of pork caul, again brushed over 
with white of egg, and cooked in a buttered baking 
dish under a buttered paper in a moderate oven for 
twelve or fifteen minutes, according to the size of 
the bird. Many cooks, after spreading these cutlets 
with the farce, dip them into whole beaten up egg f 
then into freshly grated and very white bread 
crumbs, and fry them in plenty of clean boiling fat 
till of a delicate golden brown ; they can tben be 



CUTLETS, FILLETS, Ac. 29 

served with any garnish or sauce to taste. The 
other method of using the smaller birds when they 
are boned, stuffed, cooked, pressed, and sliced is 
only adapted for chaufroix, and will be given under 
that heading. 

Hares and rabbits can be filleted by cutting out 
the strip of meat lying alongside the backbone on 
both sides exactly as described for filleting fowls, and 
if well larded these make a very pretty dish, whether 
served in rounds as Grenadins or Medallions or in 
long narrow strips as Filets or escalopes. The 
little under fillet, answering to the sirloin in beef, to 
be found under the ribs of both hare and rabbit, 
and known in France &s filets mignorw, is superior to 
the fillet proper, but is unluckily as diminutive as it 
is dainty. 

All fillets or cutlets made from brown meat, 
whether flesh, or fowl, can be marinaded, and this 
when the meat is dry, as it is especially with hares 
and venison, will be found a great improvement. 
For beef the commonest form of marinade is that 
previously given for mutton cutlets, and is made 
with four parts of salad oil to one of vinegar, with 
the addition of a small shallot or onion sliced, a bay 
leaf, four or five cloves, eight or ten peppercorns, a 
saltspoonful of salt, a good strip of thinly pared 
lemon rind, and a spray or two of parsley and 
thyme, or marjoram, to every gill of salad oil; 
needless to say this can be varied by changing the 
proportions of the herbs and spice. A very nice 
marinade for giving a venison taste to mutton can 
be prepared as below (but for this the meat, which 



80 ENTREES. 

can also be hare if preferred, should have been 
previously roasted, rather underdone, and allowed to 
get perfectly cold) : put into a dish a gill each of 
good malt vinegar, port wine, and mushroom 
ketchup, in which you have previously dissolved a 
good spoonful of red currant or rowan jelly, with a 
teaspoonful of quatre Spices or cook's pepper, a salt- 
spoonful of salt, five or six peppercorns, a sliced 
onion, and about a dessertspoonful of minced 
thyme and parsley (cold cooked meat needs only a 
few hours steeping, but if raw should be left in all 
day). This marinade is strained and added to the 
thick brown sauce in which the meat is to be heated ; 
it is then boiled up sharply all together till reduced 
a fourth part, when thr> meat is laid in and allowed 
to heat (not boil) very gently in the bain-marie ; then, 
if served round a mound of French beans with its 
sauce, it forms a decidedly excellent entree, though 
it belongs properly to the rechauffe's. For venison 
you use what is called a cooked marinade, prepared 
thus : fry together for five minutes four ounces of 
sliced carrot, double that of sliced onion, a good 
spoonful of minced mixed herbs, and double that 
amount of minced parsley, with an ounce of well 
clarified beef dripping ; then add to this a pint of 
vinegar, a pint of common claret, and a pint of 
water, (or omit the wine and use a quart of water), 
rather more than an ounce of salt, half an ounce of 
freshly ground pepper, and a blade of mace ; let this 
all boil up, then simmer for half an hour, after 
which it must be strained and used at once when 
cold, or it can be bottled and kept till wanted. 



€UTLET6. CTLIiETS. *c. 3! 

Venison should be left in thk for thre- or ioir 
days, taming it constantly. $&emember the*- 
marinades seed not be made in large quantities, ah 
all that is needed k to have the bottom of the disii 
in whiek the meat is laid covered to about h«K an 
inch m depth, as the meat to be marinaded mus: b*- 
frequently turned. When wanted for use just lift 
the meat from the liquid, let it drain for a minm- 
or two, and then prepare ft at oxioe by whatever 
recipe you choose. If.B. — Bears uieat. lateiy 
referred to by several newspapers, is excellent if tii- 
fillets are prepared by either the marinade giver for 
beef, or the cooked one mentioned for venison.; 
Sweetbread, or riz de veau. to use its French name, 
is usually served either in cutlet* or **en escalopes. " 
To begin with, sweetbreads (like brains which are 
often used in their stead • must be well soaked in 
cold salted water to cleanse them and get rid of the 
blood; tfcer are then blanched, i.e., they are put 
into sufficient cold water to cover them. with, if 
liked, a little vinegar or lemon juice, say a spoonful, 
two or three peppercorns, a spray of parsley, and a 
sliced onion ; as soon as this is brought to the boil 
the sweetbread is lifted out, placed between two 
plates, lightly pressed, and left till cold : ft is then 
wrapped in a thin slice of fat bacon, and next in a 
buttered paper and placed in a stew-pan with loz. of 
butter, a carrot, an onion, a blade of celery, and a 
bunch of herbs; now fry it lightly for twelve or 
fifteen minutes, then pour on to it a gill of gvvxl 
white or colourless stock, and let it cook gently in 
the oven for an hour, adding more stock as that in 



32 ENTRIES. 

the pan evaporates. It is now allowed to cool a 
little, sliced and served with any sauce or garnish to 
taste. This of course is when it is to be served as 
escalopes. It can also be served whole, either cooked 
as above, with any garnish to taste, or after 
blanching and pressing it may be larded and then 
braised as above. In this case, when taken out of 
the paper, it is usually brushed ever with liquid 
glaze and set for a minute or two in the oven to 
crisp and brown the lardoons before dishing it on 
the puree (whether of mushroom, sorrel, tomato, Ac.) 
with which it is to be served. Or it can, when 
braised, be sliced down, and dipped in egg and 
breadcrumb, or in good frying batter, and lightly 
fried ; or it may be sliced down as before, and dished 
like fillets of beef, on a border of mashed potato, 
and served with supremo, or any other rich white 
sauce poured over and round it. An average sweet- 
bread takes about an hour's gentle cooking to be in 
perfection. 

A variety of meat can be served as fillets or 
escalopes, which hardly come under the heading of 
cutlets (though that name too is occasionally applied 
to them), as, for instance, liver, which, like ham or 
foie gras, when cut into long narrow fillets, or even 
slices, is also known as tranches or lames, cf what- 
ever the meat. These names are simply given to 
explain their use on foreign menus ; for ordinary 
purposes the description can be omitted altogether, 
and simply the name of the meat used, as for 
instance, foie de veau a Vitalienne, a very favourite 
French dish, which, ad will be seen when the 



CUTLETS, FILLETS, Ac. 



33 



description is given, is not nearly so pretentious as 
its name would imply. Foie gras is usually known 
as escalopes, chiefly from the shape of the slices, 
which are mostly scooped out in a concave shape 
with a silver spoon. Lastly, there is a form of 
fillet known to French chefs as filet cordite, of which 
Fig. 9 gives a clear idea. (Fig. 10 shows the fillet 




Fig. 10. 

ready for cooking ; Fig. 9 showing it cut ready for 
inserting the garnish.) The fillet is lifted clear off 
from the breast-bone of the bird, or the backbone 
of a hare or rabbit, and instead of being sliced down 
as described above, each fillet forms one portion 
(except in the case of a hare or large rabbit, when 
each side fillet can be halved, cut, and trimmed into 
shape). This pear shaped piece of meat is then 
gashed right across horizontally three or four times, 



34 ENTRIES. 

a slice of red pickled tongue, or a fillet of truffle, &c., 
being fixed in each gash, the pointed end being then 
gently trimmed and pressed round with a wet knife, 
into a rather spiral form. ,These fillets are more 
solid than the usual ones, and are particularly good 
when the meat has been marinaded, as it allows the 
flavouring to permeate the flesh thoroughly. But 
their preparation demands much deftness and care 
on the part of the cook, for their appearance depends 
entirely on their regularity, 



CHAPTHB HL 



CUTLEIS, FTTiT^a, ice rV'miuwta. 

Haytjtc grresi gensrtki dn*»i*tn» 1<jt iw* i/r»^stiai<«a 
of cutlet* and £Bsts «f ^rtzrnrw unjo* -*, i^r *j*^rnV 
recipes mar b& «fer**&. sa mxgg&iiKiis. l<r r tv«#uh? 
be impossible in a fe&iik u! ishi* *lc^ at jrer* io^inmr 
like an exksBStav^ lot u? -in*: inm**?Tvi» ^nvr* \£ 
preparing saek tilrmgft, Fur JiattaaiS*: *nxiM?i+ imwdj 
broiled (t^-, neact2r trmm^j i*£l yx&n^. «r ji*rft*?i; if 
liked, with &»e lard'xni* p^^iinifcr*- t^jImS jl iruv6/r+ 
Spices, brushed -c^^r witik, ur ^xp]^Q :niu, *iszi*zr 
dissolved hotter or go&& m^o 'xL iktzi. ztIIj&c 'fy*s- 
a clear fire for tour &r isr*: -nrhnfe^ lift '/li*«~ **&*- 
being turned aol <**>l*?d it t;i**r *&m~ -wkj if 
unlarded ; or if larded, tiLexi *#t far fc^zr h.tti^^. **r 
so in a sharp oven, to crisp tits lwd£*>i** ati/d foi*h 
the cooking ;) can be served m a tsr^t with aav nice 
vegetables such as peas, asparagus points, cucumber, 
souffle or ribbon potatoes, fried tomatoes, mush- 
rooms, <fec, or with any good puree, such as mush- 
room, tomato, celeri a Vespagnole (the celery well 
cleansed, blanched, and stewed in good well flavoured 
brown stock, then rubbed through a sieve and heated 
in a rich espagnole sauce), artichoke, salsify, 
cardoons, lettuce, spinach, potato, && M \.q Vaster 

D 2 



36 ENTRIES. 

naming the dish according to this garnish) ; or a la 
jardiniere (with various vegetables cooked sepa- 
rately, then finally tossed in a little butter and 
sugar to glaze them) ; or en macedoine (with a 
mixture of plainly boiled vegetables, either fresh or 
canned) ; a la Mancelle (with a rather thick, richly 
flavoured chestnut puree); a la Palestine (with a 
thick pure'e of Jerusalem artichokes) ; a la Soubise 
(with a rich white puree of onions), a la Bretonne 
(the same puree, only brown, or with stewed haricot 
beans) ; a la Milanaise (served with carefully cooked 
macaroni, mixed with strips of ham, truffles, and a 
rich cheese cream sauce) ; a la chipolata (with 
chipolata garnish, tossed in a full-flavoured espagnole 
sauce) ; a la financiere {financier 'e garnish tossed in 
a rich espagnole) ; a la Toulouse (much the same, 
only a rich allemande being used instead of the 
espagnole) ; a la Valenciennes (with a mixture of 
mushrooms, artichoke bottoms, prawns, crayfish or* 
lobster, and rice, all tossed in a good sauce Indienne) ; 
a la marechale (served on a border of very creamy 
mashed potato, with a clear meat gravy rather 
strongly flavoured with cayenne pepper, lemon 
juice, and a few drops of sherry) ; d la Viennoise 
(larded and served with a rich brown sauce in which 
some red currant jelly has been dissolved, with a 
little port wine) ; a Vorientale (with a border of 
savoury tomato rice, a ragout of olives in the centre, 
and a rich brown or white curry sance) ; d la 
Smyrniote (served on savoury rice, flavoured with 
saffron and mixed with stewed sultanas or raisins, 
and a white poivrade), &c. If preferred instead of 



CUTLETS, FILLETS, 6x. 37 

broiling them the cutlets may be $atde$, {#., placed 
when trimmed in a well buttered saute-pau, sprinkled 
with a little wine and glaze, covered with a buttered 
paper, and cooked over the fire or in the oven for 
eight to ten minutes ; but in this way they of course 
miss the burnt taste which to epicures is the 
predominant quality of a well cooked cutlet. Or 
again when trimmed, the cutlets may be dipped 
either in dissolved butter or whole beaten egg, then 
rolled in very fine white (dry) bread cruinbs, and 
fried in boiling fat till delicately coloured, when 
they must be well drained ; in this case the cutlet 
should be trimmed straight from B to D, not in a 
curve as at E (see Fig. 1). These breaded cutlets 
can be served with any vegetables, or vegetable 
puree, to taste ; or indeed the preceding recipes may 
be adapted to them; very often the bread crumbs 
are seasoned with pepper and salt (or quatre epices), 
and sometimes with grated cheese, minced ham, 
truffles, <&c. ; or else a layer of rich farce is laid over 
the meat, which is then egged and bread crumbed, 
fried, and served with an appropriate sauce. (This 
farce may be made of almost anything from foie 
gras to plain beef farce, or even delicate sausage 
meat). For instance, they may be served en robe de 
ckambre (when a delicate veal forcemeat is laid over 
the cutlets, which are then egged and crumbed, 
fried, and served with a demi-glace, i.e., a thin 
espagnole made by boiling together sharply half a 
pint each of espagnole sauce, good plain stock, or a 
little consomme, and an ounce of glaze fox fts^ 
minutes) ; a la Reform (when tiie "bxeaA cxvn£ta& ^x» 



38 ENTRIES. 

seasoned, and mixed with about one-third their bulk 
of grated ham ; the cutlets are then broiled, and 
served with Reform sauce, to which a Reform garnish 
of hard-boiled white of egg, ham, tongue, and 
truffles all cut into julienne strips, has been added) ; 
a la Soyer (marinade the cutlets for eight or ten 
hours, then drain well, and dip them first into beaten 
egg and then into a mince made of equal parts of 
cooked tongue, lean ham, and hard-boiled egg white, 
very finely chopped; let them rest till firmly set; 
then again egg them and dip in very fine white 
bread crumbs and fry a delicate golden brown ; dish 
on or round a pile of sorrel pure*e, and send the 
following sauce round in a very hot boat ; add a 
small tea spoonful of essence of anchovy and the 
same of chilli vinegar to three-quarters of a pint of 
espagnole sauce, and reduce it by sharp boiling to 
half a pint ; then stir into it a teaspoonful of mush- 
room ketchup, the same of red currant jelly, and 
half a glass of Marsala ; as soon as the jelly is all 
melted stir into it a tablespoonful each of hard- 
boiled egg white, cooked mushrooms, lean cooked 
ham, and two gherkins, all cut into julienne strips 
and serve hot (this is a form of Reform cutlet, and 
its garnish and sauce are equally good for beef 
fillets) ; a la Marquise (when a thin strip of rather 
fat ham is placed on each side of the cutlet, which 
is then egged and crumbed, broiled or fried, and 
served with a rich allemande sauce with dice of ham 
in it) ; au Parmesan (grated Parmesan mixed with 
the bread crumbs, and a rich cheese cream) ; or any 
rich sauce, white or brown, may be reduced till yery 



CUTLETS, ULLEFE. tec ISb 

thick, spread thickly an tine cutiete iditfib aa»r imsuu 
egged and crumbed, and aerved dry on a Wei erf any 
nice vegetables- These of eou»e tak*: -their usts^ 
from the sauce coating, far instant* if eoafcecl with * 
very rich aUemande sanc^ d^licirteiT flavoured vrtij 
lemon juice, mushroom*. &c.. they ar*- ^al^ci ctieletUx 
a la VUleroi (a rich white «&.nc% tliia&af-ci anuotft i*> 
a paste by reduction, "beinjE: known a* & Tilierui^ 
atwj jrctftf* pow (or whaawer -v*i%>z\&\jm* \vrm lh*r 
garnish). Again cutsets, abroad ^Bpeoiaby, art urteii 
braised, t.e., they are plaoed ox & iiw# of #uup 
vegetables, with a sliee or two oi \\\m\> & irood 
bouquet of herbs, msuh'sirmz to i&ifc, aiKi i&g&r 
sufficient strong stock to jn« '*jr-er tb*au_ & ljvZter*A 
paper is put over them and they ar*r ii*yu suiiiii*er-ed 
very gently till cooked, when t2*eT a?*- lifted ^izL *i*d 
placed to press between two yjoz&t voder & -m+agkti 
till perfectly cold; they are then trmm*ei ti*t 
liquor in which they were ooked is Ktraia^ed, freed 
from fat, and reduced a little hr rarvad hvLfinz, the 
cold trimmed cutlets being then g*nrtly heated in 
this sauce and served with any garnish to taste. 
Lastly there is the MainUnon evtiti, for which 
various methods of cooking are often green. The 
nicest I think is this : cut the cutlets rather thick, 
then split them through horizontally to the bone, 
and lay in this a good spoonful of <T UxeUes mixture 
(i.e., a mixture of minced parsley, mushrooms, 
chives, and tongue or ham, all tossed till cooked in 
a little butter), close down the cutlet skewering it 
into shape with very tiny skewers, and broil it for 
four minutes or so each side (a variation of this dish 



40 ENTRIES. 

is cutlets a la Bothschild, when a puree of foie gras 
is used instead of the d* Vxelles) ; more frequently 
these cutlets are I roiled in oiled paper cases, a 
spoonful of dUTJxelles sauce being added to each 
case for the Maintenon, and a spoonful of sauce 
Eothschild for the Rothschild cutlets. But for this 
the boneless noisettes or grenadins are to be 
preferred. 

If liked, any of these cutlets can be cooked as 
noisettes, i.e., deprived of their bones, rounded neatly, 
and broiled or sautes, as you choose. But if so 
served they should always be mounted on something, 
say a round of fried bread, carefully fried in clarified 
butter to a delicate golden brown, or on a mush- 
room, or an artichoke bottom, or a sliced tomato, or 
on a mound of stiff vegetable puree, as you please. 
These noisettes make a delicious dish if placed on a 
delicately fried crouton, spread with a little savoury 
butter, finished off with a tiny pat of the same and 
sent up at once very hot. Maitre d'hotel, Perigord, 
Proven cal, ham, or curry butter, or stiff mayonnaise, 
tartare, or Bearnaise sauce can all be utilized, and 
present an agreeable variety. 

Lamb cutlets can be treated in the same way, the 
recipes with white sauce being specially suitable 
for lamb. 

Fillets of beef, however served, can be dressed by 
many of the recipes given for cutlets, savoury 
butters of all kinds being especially suitable and 
appetising. As a general rule it may be broadly 
stated that when beef is served as fillets, it is un- 
forded, whereas as grenadins or mSdaillons, it is all 



CUTLETS, FILLETS, Ac. 41 

but invariably larded or barded (i.e, wrapped in thin 
slices of fat bacon.) Bemember that many recipes 
(especially if rich ones) given for fillets can be 
applied to the smarter form. 

Filets de bceuf mix huiires. — For these choose 
rather thick rounds of beef cut from the rump, and 
split each horizontally without quite cutting it in 
two, then inside each round lay one or two oysters, 
according to size, seasoned with a tiny dust of 
cayenne, and a squeeze of lemon juice, skewer the 
fillet back into shape with a tiny skewer, or fix it 
with nicely seasoned lardoons, and sautez them in a 
well buttered pan with a little wine, and stock, and 
serve round or on a pile of very creamy mashed 
potato with a demi-glace poured round it, and if 
liked, a garnish of seasoned watercress. 

F. a Vintendante. — Make a delicate force meat with 
poultry livers, grated bacon, mushrooms, very finely 
minced shallot and spice, moistening it with yolk of 
egg ; prepare the grenadins as in the previous 
recipe, filling them with a layer of this forcemeat, 
then fastening them together into shape with 
seasoned lardoons, and sautez them delicately, setting 
them in the oven for a minute or two at the last to 
crisp the lardoons ; brush them over with warm glaze, 
and dish in a circle, filling up the centre with a 
financiere ragout, and pouring a rich demi- glaze 
round it. 

F. d la Bearnaise. — Slice down a piece of the fillet 
into neat wedge-shaped pieces, thicker at one end 
than the other, bat them out with a wet knife, and 
trim off all superfluous fat, skin, &&.., asfcasya. *»£&> 



42 ENTRIES, 

fillet with a little salt and coralline pepper, and 
brush over with dissolved butter or best salad oil, 
and grill or broil for four minutes on each side; 
then dish straight down the centre, putting a little 
bearnaise sauce on the top of each fillet and serve at 
once very hot, garnished with potato ribbons or 
straws ; if liked, maitre d'hotel, or any other savoury 
butter, can be substituted, a particularly toothsome 
dish (filets aux crevettes), being made by using 
anchovy butter for the garnish, dishing the fillets 
en couronne, and filling the centre with a rich shrimp 
sauce, over which you lightly pile the potato straws. 
F. a Vempereur. — For this cut the fillets of beef 
rather thin, and season with salt and coralline 
pepper ; on each of these lay a slice of calf s liver 
cut to match, and join them by running lardoons of 
fat bacon (rolled in quatre epices before use) right 
through ; trim these lardoons, brush the fillets well 
over with dissolved butter, place some straws, 
previously brushed over with the butter, on the 
grid, lay the fillets on this liver side down, and broil 
them for eight minutes or so, then place them in a 
buttered baking dish and crisp the upper (or beef 
side, on which the lardoons should be left rather 
longer), in the oven for a few minutes. Lightly 
brush them over with warm glaze and serve with 
a puree of mushrooms in the centre, and a Borde- 
laise sauce round. (This is simply espagnole rather 
strongly flavoured with essence of anchovy, light 
white French wine, and shalot, garnished, after 
tammying, with finely minced tarragon or parsley, 
and chives. 



CUTLETS, FILLETS, be 43 

F. a la chasseur. — Sautez the fillets >ar nse 
grenadins or fillets as you please. varying the nanne 
accordingly) which should have been larded and 
marinaded in the venison marinade for a few hour* 
beforehand, and serve round a pile of souffit 
potatoes, with the sauce given for cutlet* k la Soyer, 
round them ; or the real Reform sau'je and garnioL, 
can be used, and gives its name to the dish : or 
olives stoned and stewed in good brown sauce may 
be used as the centre garnish. 

F. a la raifori aux cev/s. — Bat out and trim tome 
neat round fillets, and broil these orer a clear fire 
after brushing them orer with oil or liquid butter ; 
have ready some rounds of bread fried a delicate 
brown and brushed over with liquid glaze ; also as 
many nicely poached eggs as you have fillets fmind 
these are nicely trimmed so as to have only a rerv 
tiny rim of white round them ; indeed, many cooks 
use the yolk only for this purpose), then place a 
fillet of beef on each crouton, a poached egg on the 
beef and lastly a tiny heap of " Spring's horseradish 
cream " on top of all. Strictly speaking, any savoury 
butter can be used in this way, but this particular 
novelty is so very delicious it deserves special men- 
tion. Remember that when liquid glaze is mentioned, 
Liebig and Co.'s extract of beef is a particularly 
effective substitute for home-made glaze, always 
being at hand, and in good condition, which is more 
than can be said for the home-made glaze in every 
case. A small teaspoonful of this extract added to 
any sauce is an immense improvement, and will give 
strength and value to even second fctoc& % ^«t *0aft 



44 ENTRIES. 

sauces a reduction it is particularly valuable. Lastly, 
there are what may be classed as stuffed fillets, or 
filets fourres, i.e., when the piece of meat, of what- 
ever shape you please (though usually a round form 
is preferred), is cut thick enough to allow of its 
being sliced (as for filets de bceuf aux huitres), any 
farce or stuffing being then introduced, as for 
example, a la St. James, when a slice of foie gras or 
liver farce is placed between the sides of the tiny 
steak, which is saute, and finished off with a compote 
of cherries (see escalopes de lievre aux cerises), and 
a rich mushroom sauce ; or a la Grande Bretagne, 
when the meat is stuffed with a mixture of rather 
thick horseradish sauce, grated Parmesan cheese, and 
cooked macaroni cut into tiny rings, the fillets, when 
sautes, being served with fried potato straws, and a 
good brown sauce ; or a la Riga, when a little delicate 
sausage meat is placed between the sliced meat, 
which is braised, and lastly served with brown sauce 
round, a garnish of sliced and broiled tomatoes, and 
a pile of peas, asparagus points, or any other nice 
vegetable in the centre ; or a la Perigueux, i.e., stuffed 
with a ragout of truffles sliced and tossed in a little 
wine, sautes, and served with a rich tomato sauce. 
In short, they may be varied almost ad infinitum, 
for if nicely sautes, or broiled, filets de boeuf may 
be served with almost any sauce, if care be taken as 
to the accompanying garnish, as, for instance, a la 
Nemours, i.e., stuffed with a delicate chicken force- 
meat, and dished alternately with small slices of 
nicely broiled ham, and a rich allemande sauce. It 
may be mentioned that sometimes fillets of beef thus 



CUTLETS, FILLETS, Ac. 45 

prepared are egged, breadcrunibed, and fried, the 
farce having been previously laid on the side of the 
fillet, (Cutlets are also Terr good served in this way . ) 
Finally, there is the Chateaubriand steak, which was 
originally a piece of romp or fillet steak cut about 
lfin. thick and placed between two pieces of ordinary 
steak about |in. thick, this being then broiled until 
the outside meat was all but a cinder, when it was 
served with the outer meat removed, and was found 
cooked just to perfection. This is, however, now 
simply an extra thick steak or filet, of which the 
outer sides are fairly scorched over a clear grill fire, 
leaving the centre rather underdone and very juicy ; 
it is then served with a tiny ball of maitre d'hotel 
butter placed on a hot dish underneath it, a similar 
ball being placed on top of each filet, and a demi- 
glace thickened with maitre d'hotel butter being 
served round it, together with souffle or straw 
potatoes. 

The above will give some idea of the different ways 
of serving fillets of beef, whilst of veal it may be 
said that almost any recipe given for either mutton 
or beef cutlets or fillets will suit veal ; the following, 
however, is the conventional " veal cutlet " : Take 
either the " noisettes " from the best end of the neck 
as described for mutton, or a slice cut from the fillet 
about fin. thick, and shape this into rounds, batting 
these out neatly ; either flour these well or dip them 
in egg and breadcrumb, in either case frying them in 
clarified butter till of a pale golden brown, and 
perfectly cooked (underdone white meat is unpardon- 
able), which will take from twelve to fifteen m\\rota& 



46 ENTREES. 

according to the size of the cutlets, then lift them on 
to a hot dish ; meanwhile add a little more butter to 
that in the pan, dredge in about a dessertspoonful 
of fine dry flour and cook these together till of a 
very pale fawn shade (a spoonful or two of white 
wine may with advantage be added to this ) ; now 
add gradually from a gill to one-third of a pint 
of good stock, or even boiling water, seasoning this 
to taste with pepper, salt, and lemon juice, boil it all 
up together, then pour it over and round the veal 
cutlets, which may be further garnished with slices 
of lemon and tiny rashers of bacon cooked thus : 
Slice the bacon very thinly, cutting each rasher into 
two or three, roll each piece up neatly and thread it 
on to a skewer and toast or bake these lightly till just 
cooked. Some people add the finely grated peel of a 
small lemon to the breadcrumbs in which the veal 
cutlets are rolled ; or, again, you may add a dessert- 
spoonful of best curry powder to about 2oz. of 
breadcrumbs, and half a small teaspoonful of salt, 
and roll the egged cutlets in this ; when fried, serve 
either with good curry sauce or with the gravy made 
as in the preceding recipe, only using half flour and 
half curry powder to thicken the sauce ; or again, 
the cutlets may be cooked as in the first recipe, and 
served with tomato sauce. 

It must be remembered that abroad veal cutlets 
are also cut precisely like mutton cutlets, from 
the best end of the neck, and treated in pretty 
much the same way; or they may be served au 
gratin (or a la bordelaise, as it is sometimes called) 
thus : Cut and trim the cutlets exactly as for mutton 



CUTLETS, PELLETS, Ac. 47 

cutlets for egg and crumbing, and dust these well 
on both sides with salt and quatre Spices, or pepper 
and a very little grated nutmeg ; have ready a mix- 
ture made by mincing finely a good slice of bacon, a 
shallot, and a spray or two of parsley and tarragon, 
mixing this well with one raw egg, then spread a 
layer of this mince over each cutlet, and brush it 
over afterwards with the yolk of an egg ; sprinkle a 
well buttered baking dish with finely grated bread 
crumbs seasoned with a little salt and white pepper, 
and lay in the cutlets side by side, moistening them 
with half a gill each of stock and of claret, and let 
them bake till cooked, which they will be, when the 
stock, Ac., is nearly all absorbed. Three well-known 
German dishes must be mentioned, as they belong to 
the fillet and cutlet genus. The first is Wiener 
schnitzel. For these cut the veal into rather thin 
fillets, rub these well with pepper and salt, and dip 
them into a good but rather light batter (or, if pre- 
ferred, beaten egg yolk), then into crushed rusks 
(zwieback), and fry a golden brown in plenty of 
butter or lard. Serve well drained, sprinkled with a 
squeeze of lemon juice, and a garnish of fried eggs, 
capers, and filletted sardines arranged in a kind of 
trellis over all. Chilaseh: Cut about a lb. of nice 
fillet of veal (free from all skin, sinew, Ac.) into 
dice; cut up two small potatoes and one apple, 
washed and peeled in the same way, and mince down 
4oz. of bacon. Melt l|oz. fresh butter and fry in 
this half an onion finely minced, till slightly coloured, 
then lay in the minced veal, seasoning it with salt 
and pepper, and cook it gently for ten minutes over 



18 ENTRIES. 

a clear fire (a hot oven will also do) ; now sprinkle it 
all with a dessertspoonful of flour, moistening it with 
a gill of veal stock and half a gill of sherry or 
Madeira ; add about a teaspoonf ul of carraway seeds 
tied up in a piece of muslin, and let it all simmer 
slowly together. Meantime fry the minced bacon, 
potatoes, and apple slowly in l^oz. of butter till of a 
pale golden brown, then pour off the fat, and stir the 
bacon, potatoes, &c., into the meat with a fork, being 
careful not to mash it as you do so. Let it all cook 
very gently together till the meat, &c, is thoroughly 
done, then lift out the carraway seeds, and serve 
very hot. This is an Hungarian dish, and the pepper 
used should be the Hungarian paprica. (Tender 
beefsteak is excellent also cooked thus.) 

Fillet a la Viennoise. — Take fib. of good well 
trimmed fillet steak, and mince it finely, seasoning it 
as you do so with salt, paprica (or coralline pepper 
answers capitally), and very finely minced chives;* 
roll out this paste, flattening it out like a bannock, 
and dusting it lightly with the flour ; sautez it for 
ten minutes in clarified butter, standing it for a 
minute in the oven, to crisp, just at the last. Serve 
with a rich demi-glace, diluted with sour cream, 
round it. 

Chicken fillets, prepared as described in the pre- 
vious chapter, may be served with almost any sauce 
and garnish. For instance, filets de volatile a 
Vamba88adrice : Cut down the breast of the fowl into 
neat and rather thin fillets, and coat each of these 
with a little delicate chicken farce mixed with minced 
truffle (for this mince and pound to a smooth paste 



UllThKTb 



&k. of ehiakeL iook — tact visst .. iroi ii- nr. 
Hie cansaae-wiU d*— -teen jn:i :: t^. ^._ - ■ «&w*Lt 
aho proviou Bry pounder, an .1 ^'jzh w.* tv ivr«fij*»" 
in -&e mortar, wraimmu : i ia*-- r:. t^- 
pepper, sail, ooz&lira- pepi«:,iu-.; - -*«--• ::-•• rr* ; - 
<if inirtmeg'; jtddxnt' ju. vnu*j- *■ jr*rr tr.::^ a& 
the yolks of W «^gi t ujji : t. n'r* vru*' 
them over *wiiL toIi: cl -tip. ax. r i>»**; vr*ai 

•Grnmbs, half season^'-- -wit; uiriivr •rvd":- i.'. 1^: 
-with gmted hanr . ir^ i* titiiis^- v-uyv a.*, --t-.- j; 
a. circle with it za$rou~- C- cu'juili.*": but*-; *. ,j "^- 
saraee. Taal, rabun, a: _ . ta: (*- u»*r i::v 

F. tiJa Cardmal — YiUei ':u a i*." ¥ui ••■-.•!? ■- sur. 
cooted in the ovei- ix. i; -w*^ vvrsw? uniiv: '^mi. 
vrith a squeeze of ieauui ;ui«>. an. w^*-*. -v^ 
a. "buttered paper : iwr- a.p ti*£i oifcjf : r * 'mat 
the centre being* filieii -witui, ratrjir c TTirfL«r... air. i. 
aiuuce cardinal* runnu ; ca rdma.. aa.u«> 1 r^r l tkit 
juDfinumde Bailee coloured v l aeii'^-v l-hl; vnu 
cmjfiflh or lobster butter £ hnth*tL yr#vn. i= oftex 
Said in each fillet ior thi* nisi. 

<F. avicac huUree. — For iiu* slice uorn. ti±<: Slier* 
ra&er thmrr, and cook at n. iiit Tjrerjmir T^rr* : 
then dish in a circle, filling lift- centrt vrittL l ti:± 
oyster samce. (Some cooks spread & ueiicau nystttr 
faroe over the fillet and cover Thif vizi &iior.}mr, 
fixfng them together by means of l&.rdf»on* of 
seasoned fat bacon, and then cook as before..") 

P. d Teearlcde consists simply of fillets of cLkken 
mimtes and dished alternatelT "with slices of verv red 
cooked tongue, a rich aUemande sauce being «<*cv<A 
round. 



50 ENTRIES. 

Supreme de Volatile. — For this the two sides of the 
breast of the fowl are lifted off in a piece and split 
in half (instead of being thinly sliced down), each 
being then cut in two, these fillets being placed 
in a well buttered baking dish with a very little 
lemon juice and chicken stock, covered with a 
buttered paper and cooked from eight to ten 
minutes, according to thickness; then dish them 
alternately with sliced hot cooked tongue cut to match, 
fill up the centre with a ragout of truffles, and pour 
sauce supreme round, sending more to table in a 
boat. French cooks look on a supreme de volatile as 
a masterpiece, and grudge neither trouble nor 
expense in preparing it. It is bound to be an 
expensive dish, as the breast only produces four, or 
at most eight fillets, though French chefs also use the 
filets mignons (or the portion answering to that name) ; 
moreover they shape the fillets most carefully into a 
pearshape, by batting and pressing them into shape 
with a hot wet knife. The sauce is the richest white 
sauce of the French cuisine, and according to 
some cooks should be made solely with chicken 
stock. M. GouiK however advises it being prepared 
thus : Put into a pan a gill of chicken glace, three 
gills of very carefully made velout^ sauce (prepared 
with veal stock), and one quarter gill of essence of 
mushrooms ; bring this all to a boil, then draw it to 
the side of the stove and let it simmer very gently 
for half an hour; after skimming it well, stir it 
gently over the fire till the sauce will mask the 
spoon, then dilute it a little with strong rich 
chicken stock. The supreme is always prepared 






CI 

'■ft*"' 



-rtw ._ u .. 



thus, tiwwiA is nose ina— ^rc zr'ji. tir grr-ii*. 
served villi it: » ±cr jbsebjs& *vlv**h a- tmo7^ 
am* trmfa (wiiL & sasoxr or ro&t zi xt- «r^rrr- 
mpreaK a la romuz tta- dEliei- i-tci;: 
border of -veeBratMflfc- t^tll pri*?nt*- ssv- 

the centre) : £. c Trrorrt "irjiS- ia- t i***! ^» vi- it 
aboTe are monrnec at i. t»cru*r c: iucc^: l^^' , -- 
ihrvuixxea iraii. iufc ra: * •ttt'T'ol*- iecu*?- 
twer am. nmxiL tj**?i_ jux. il*- * , * > *t^x> 
filled ^ritii -either aspaatSBr i--».^rt- i~ai_ .- _ 
maeedoine cf ymmc surmi: "v^ffeiio*?* :;■ u*- 
border |gqare a iaret cc eiiKs^L a? ctrs. zi wx : 
Taai&BMdbvx. adamr i* r * 
tahlespooaafulE of ctoixl. mid £1 
border mould iririiL ti*: imxnir^ j •-rrrna; n i. * r^i ' ; 
freerr amU diet uf wn< ch 7 W #* trm* i-v&- '~nr 
taken froiD H*e pat.ior if i*dii graiiiiru- ' IJi *r *■*■ ^*^r 
aroma), cover vitL a "mnfefreL wn>^ aud j***^ re 
steam till an wmihinr *ib* seutiv txl your irnir^ r 
feels firm. Thk hsr tirigm "we pruiani!*rL. i<: £ir~ 
extent, as, given the ftnmdaiiai: aesCTiec i^rrx. 
supreme can be varied indedbnajj. Zi inns; ':* 
remembered that rabldit. parrridsFeL. T«heasLn&. tn: 
indeed any kind of game, mar be ?:«:»k**-5. j£br i c-Vav. 
as fillets, whilst veniBoai can f cdrw thr r^iie* xriTv-r 
for mutton. 

CoteUttes de Pigeon a Za dTizu**. — P^ej»sw iho 
pigeons as described in chapter 2, boning them and 
leaving just enough of the leg to form the bone of 
the cutlet; bat and trim this neatly into sUa^o* 
then cover or " mask " each pretty \\i\<V\x V\\\\ *> 

s 2 



52 ENTREES. 

rather stiff d* Uzelles sauce, and when this has set a 
little, brush each cutlet over with egg and then fine 
breadcrumbs, and fry in plenty of hot fat till of a 
golden brown (about twelve to fifteen minutes) and 
serve with rich brown sauce, strongly flavoured with 
mushrooms, shallot, and tomatoes, with a dash of 
white wine and a spoonful of capers added at the 
last, and a garnish of broiled mushrooms. If the 
pigeons are boned and coated with a liver or foie 
gras farce, fried, and served with tomato sauce they 
are called a la tnoderne ; in short, pigeons may be 
cooked and served with any variety of sauce and 
garnish, for example d la milanaise, spread with a 
liver forcemeat (not foie gras) fried, and served on a 
bed of well cooked macaroni mixed with white sauce 
strongly flavoured with grated cheese, strips of ham, 
and truffles, with the cheese sauce round ; or on a 
bed of tomato sauce and macaroni, with a demi- 
glace poured round ; or d la chipolata, with a rich 
espagnole and a chipolata garnish ; or a la flamande, 
with a good strong brown gravy (not thickened 
sauce) and a garnish of stewed cabbage, and carrots, 
turnips, tiny onions, &c, first cooked, then tossed in 
enough butter with a tiny pinch of sugar, to glaze 
them ; or d la Montglas, when the rest of the flesh 
carefully picked from the carcases of the birds is 
made into a rich mince with stock (made with the 
bones of the pigeons and a little strong stock, 
flavoured like an espagnole sauce), into which you 
stir some sliced truffles ; or if cut in half, without 
boning, the pigeons may be grilled and served on a 
bed of spinach with tartare, mayonnaise, Cazanova, 



CUTLETS, FILLETS, 4c. 63 

or any other nice iced sauce, the cold sauce blending 
admirably with the fire-scorched broil. Another 
way is to bone the birds, then by means of a bag and 
forcing pipe to fill them back into shape with a f arce 
(prepared lite the border for supreme of chicken a 
Viwrire) veil flavoured with truffles and foio gran, 
fastened into shape with a buttered band of paper, ai 
shown in Fig. 11 ; then set the birds thus prepared 
on a well buttered tin, and cook in the oven for 
fifteen to eighteen minutes, keeping them well battled 
all the time; then halve them with a warm we 
knife, brush them over with white of egg that ban 




Fio. 11. 



been broken up, but not whisked to a stiff froth, 
wrap each cutlet in a strip of pork caul, again 
brush over with white of egg, roll in minced truffle, 
and set them in a buttered baking tin covered with 
a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten 
minutes, after which they are dished on a potato 
border, and served with a quenelle mixture, or a 
financiere garnish, in the centre, and any rich sauce 
such as Perigueux, Champagne, Ac, round it. It 
must be remembered that all birds, inch as quails, 
partridges, larks, &C. (not to mention hares and 
rabbits), can be cooked by these red-pea, V^ ftia mvj 



54 ENTRIES. 

of a little intelligence and good will on the cook's 
part. For instance, the green plover so often seen 
in poulterer's shops make a delicious dish if the 
fillets are used as above described ; or, again, the 
foreign game sent over from the continent frozen, 
lends itself particularly well to these recipes, as its 
rather strong flavour is obviated by the sauces 
which would be almost wicked used in connection 
with our own fresh and delicately flavoured game. 
By the way, few people appear to know how well 
grouse and mushrooms go together. Fillet the 
birds (using the rest of the body for a broil or grill 
in connection with tartare sauce), and cook in a 
well buttered tin, seasoned with a little salt and 
pepper, a few drops of sherry and a very little stock, 
under a buttered paper, in the oven from eight to 
twelve minutes according to the thickness of the 
fillets (in Scotland where birds are plentiful a side 
of the breast should be allotted to each guest, but 
where economy has to be studied, slice down the 
fillets), and dish them alternately with delicately 
fried croutons strewed with a d* TJzeUes mixture, on a 
bed of mushroom puree prepared thus : Chop fairly 
fine a pound of well wiped mushrooms, and let them 
draw down (cook slowly) at the side of the stove 
with l£oz. of fresh butter for seven or eight minutes, 
then stir in two tablespoonfuls of freshly grated 
white bread crumbs, season with a little coralline 
pepper and salt, add a spoonful or so of good brown 
sauce, and use. 

Filet de Chevreuil a la Dauphin. — Lard some 
neatly trimmed fillets of roe deer and lay them in a 



OUTLETS, FILLETS, Ac. 65 

• 

stewpan lined with slices of fat bacon and smoked 
ham, together with three or four green onions, and 
a bouquet ; moistening it with consomme*, and little 
by little, a pint of champagne ; when the fillets are 
cooked* skim, strain, and slightly reduce this sauce, 
if necessary, and pour it round and over the fillets, 
garnishing these with fried croutons, spread with 
savoury butter to taste. 

Filets de SangUer a la FrSderie le grand. — Trim a 
fillet of wild boar neatly, and place it in a pan lined 
with sliced bacon, a slice of lean ham, two carrots, 
two onions stuck with cloves, two bayleares, a good 
bouquet, salt, pepper, peppercorns, and two good 
glasses of light white wine, covering it all with 
sliced fat bacon and a buttered paper; braize it 
gently for two hours in the oven, with heat above 
and below, and serve sliced rather thickly, with its 
own liquor carefully skimmed, strained, and reduced. 
Lean pork thoroughly steeped in cooked marinade is 
excellent thus. 

In a book of the present size it is manifestly im- 
possible to give anything like an exhaustive list of 
the methods of preparing cutlets and fillets, but the 
above will help towards giving a general idea of the 
way such things may be utilised by even the most 
economical and the plainest cook, who is willing to 
take a little trouble, to the making of her own reputa- 
tion, the benefit of her mistress's pocket, and the 
improvement of the British cuisine. 

To conclude this chapter, a recipe or two for hare 
and rabbit fillets may be given. For escalopes de 
lievre aux cerises: Bemove the fillet on both sides of 



56 ENTRIES. 

the backbone of a nice hare, and wrap it in buttered 
paper till wanted ; meantime remove all the flesh 
from the rest of the hare, and break up the bones ; 
put these in a pan with a carrot and turnip, two 
onions (one stuck with two or three cloves), and a 
good bunch of herbs, together with a strip or two of 
celery if handy, and cover this all with common 
stock or water and bring it to the boil, skimming it, 
and then allowing it to simmer gently but steadily 
till you have about one and a half pints of stock; 
have ready some thick veloute* sauce made with half 
a pint of the hare stock, and loz. each of flour and 
butter, cooked together to a smooth paste and then 
diluted with the stock, letting this reduce till fully 
as thick as thick melted butter ; season to taste with 
pepper and salt, adding, if liked, a few sliced truffles 
to the mixture as you stir in the minced flesh of the 
hare (using two parts hare to one of the sauce), fill 
a buttered mould with the mixture and poach or 
steam it. Meanwhile cook the fillets of the hare, pre- 
viously sliced down and batted out neatly, in butter, 
wine, and stock, in the usual way under a buttered 
paper in the oven. Get ready the sauce by pour- 
ing what you have left of the stock on to a couple of 
ounces or so of brown roux, letting this cook 
together for about ten minutes till slightly reduced 
and thickened, then wring it through a tammy or a 
fine hair sieve, and re-heat in the bain-marie, adding 
to it half a gill of port wine, a tablespoonful of red 
currant jelly, and some dried cherries (allowing 
three or four for each fillet), with a seasoning of salt 
and coralline pepper; let this all simmer together 



CUTLETS, FILLETS, &o. 57 

till the jelly is perfectly dissolved and the cherries 
are hot, then turn out the border mould, dish the 
hare fillets neatly on this, and fill up the centre with 
nicely cooked French beans, or mushrooms, or any 
nice garnish to taste, and pour the sauce, cherries 
and all, round, and serve very hot. 

F. de Lievre aux Olives. — These are cooked in pre- 
cisely the same way as above, only using a rich 
ragout of olives for the centre and a good sauce 
piquante for the one there given; or the fillets of 
hare may be egged and crumbed, and fried, then 
dished en couronne alternately with little cutlet- 
shaped pieces of fried hare stuffing, served with a 
rich espagnole sauce (made with the bones of the 
hare), and the centre filled with carefully stewed 
button mushrooms and tiny pickling onions. 

Babbit Fillets a la friande. — Prepare the fillets of 
a rabbit as described before, and toss them in a little 
butter till firm ; then strain off the butter and leave 
the fillets till cold, when they must be larded nicely, 
well dusted with pepper and salt on both sides, and 
each rolled round a small onion, fastening the ends 
with a tiny wooden skewer. Line the bottom of a 
stew-pan with thin slices of bacon, place the pre- 
pared fillets on this, covering each with another slice 
of bacon, add a slice or two of veal, a sliced carrot, 
a bouquet, and about half a pint of good stock, lay 
a buttered paper over it all and braize very gently 
for three hours in the oven, with heat above and 
below. When cooked lift the fillets on to a dish 
and keep them hot ; then skim and strain the liquor 
in which they were cooked, reducing it a little by 



58 ENTRIES. 

rapid boiling ; meantime dish the rabbit fillets neatly 
alternately with fried croutons delicately spread with 
anchovy butter, and garnish with rolls of fried ham; 
then pour the reduced sauce, boiling, into the centre, 
and serve at once. The veal and bacon in the stock 
pot will make delicious rissoles or croquettes. Hare 
is excellent cooked thus. 

Finally there are the fillets of calves' liver, so 
frequently seen and appreciated abroad. 

Foie de Veau a V Italienne. — Cut a nice calves 9 liver 
into thickish slices as for liver and bacon, and place 
these in a stew-pan with a tablespoonf ul of salad oil, 
a slice of smoked bacon, or ham, a gill of light white 
French wine, and lastly a d'Uxelles mixture of 
parsley, green onions, and mushrooms ; season with 
salt and white pepper, and repeat these layers of 
liver, bacon, and d' UxeUes .mixture till the liver is 
done, finishing with a slice of bacon. Put the lid on 
and let it all cook together gently for rather more 
than an hour over a very gentle fire ; lift out the 
liver and dish up neatly in a circle on a very hot 
dish ; strain the sauce after carefully removing the 
fat, and pour it round the liver, garnishing the latter 
with fried parsley. If the sauce should be too thin, 
let it boil rapidly in an uncovered pan to reduce it ; 
if, on the contrary, it is too thick, add more sauce, 
and let it cook till it will just coat the back of a 
spoon. 

F. de Veau a la Lyonnaise. — Slice down about 
21b. of calf's liver, seasoning it with salt and 
pepper, and dusting it fairly generously with flour. 
Melt 3oz. or 4oz. of butter in a pan, and when it is 



OUTLETS, FILLETS, <fcc. 59 

dissolved and very hot, lay in the liver, and let it 
cook in this butter for six minutes, turning it once 
during this time ; then lift out the liver and keep it 
hot. Now add to the butter in the pan 3oz. of well 
washed and finely minced onions, and let these cook 
for two or three minutes, then dish the liver en 
couronne, and pour the butter and onion into the 
centre. Serve at once, with a cut lemon and red 
pepper handed round. 

F. de Veau a la Menagere. — Cook the liver exactly 
as in the preceding recipe, then strew over the meat a 
teaspoonf ul of finely chopped and well washed shallot, 
about twice as much well dried flour, and about a 
tablespoonful of finely minced parsley ; moisten this 
all with a full gill of wine, either white or red, and 
the same of stock, let it all boil up and serve at once. 

There are one or two recipes which are much 
appreciated in France, and may well come in here, 
though it is somewhat difficult to class them ; such 
are, for instance, Lapin en Matelotte : Skin, well 
wash, and dry a rabbit, and cut it into neat joints, 
then fry it in batter with some mushrooms and a 
good-sized onion cut into rings; when lightly 
coloured and firm, dust it all well with flour and 
moisten it with a good gill each of wine and stock ; 
then bring it to the boil and let it simmer gently till 
about half cooked; now add to it a small eel, 
skinned and cut up, a spoonful of capers, and two 
or three well washed, boned, and minced anchovies ; 
let this all simmer together till cooked, then pour 
it all on to a very hot dish, and servo garnished with 
croutons of fried bread. 



60 ENTRIES. 

Lapin an Pere Douillet. — Skin, wash, dry, and cut 
up a good rabbit into neat pieces, larding these with 
fat bacon rolled in quatre ejpices ; lay a slice of beef or 
ham into a pan with a carrot, turnip, two or three 
onions, and a good bouquet ; lay the larded rabbit on 
this, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper, and add- 
ing equal parts of good stock and light French white 
wine to just cover it. Bring it all to the boil, then 
let it simmer gently till the rabbit is cooked ; cut a 
slice of bread from a loaf into four, removing all 
crust, fry this in clarified dripping or butter till of a 
golden brown, then drain well, dust with coralline 
pepper, and place it on a hot dish ; pile the joints of 
rabbit neatly on this, and pour over all the liquor in 
which they were cooked, carefully strained, skimmed, 
and reduced, and serve very hot. 

Fillets of Rabbit a la Horti. — Remove the fillets 
from a good-sized rabbit, and slice them down not 
too thinly; marinade them for a few hours in oil, 
sliced lemon, a spray or two each of parsley and 
thyme, peppercorns, &c. When well flavoured, drain 
lightly, and broil over a clear fire. Serve dry with a 
garnish of baked tomatoes and little rolls of broiled 
ham. Fowl or foreign game are excellent treated in 
any of these ways. 



CHAFFER W. 

SOUFFLfiS, MOUSSES, ±c 

Few dishes betray inexperience more titan a joume, 
which is held bj the average cook as the *e p/a# 
ttftra of " high class cookery/ 9 and the cordon hlen 
capable of turning out what she is pretty certain to 
term a " sonifey in good condition, feels perfectly 
entitled henceforth to describe herself as ** a cook, 
experienced," and to demand wages accordingly. 

Yet, in troth, granted a little care and good will, 
a souffle, whether baked or steamed, is no very 
recondite preparation. The point to observe is the 
due proportions, which are as follows : For a meat or 
fish souffle you must reckon a full gjH of thick 
sauce (or rather liquid panade) to every three or 
four eggs used; the meat or fish giving the dish 
its distinctive character, minced as fine and 
pounded as smooth as possible, being added in the 
proportion of rather more than an ounce of the 
puree to each egg, i.e., for the yolks of three and 
.the whites of four eggs you would need a full gill of 
sauce or panade, and 3|oz to 4oz. of the meat puree, 
The method is simple enough. Begin with the 
panade by stirring together over the fire an ounce 
each of butter and fine sifted flout, \i\\ W\*&& ws 



62 ENTRIES. 

perfectly amalgamated, when you dilute them with a 
gill of water, milk, or good stock (this varies accord- 
ing to the meat used, as brown or espagnole sauce 
for brown meat or game ; veloute*, or bechamel for 
chicken or any white meat ; or fish stock for fish), 
let this cook over the fire very gently (being careful 
not to let it colour if for white meat), for eight or 
ten minutes, to insure the flour being perfectly 
cooked; then stir in the minced or pounded meat 
(using your judgment as to whether you add 3|oz. or 
4oz., according to its solidity) with seasoning and 
flavouring to taste, and lastly the yolks separately, 
stirring one well in before adding in the next ; and 
lastly stir in quickly and lightly the whites of the 
eggs whisked to a very stiff froth, and at once pour 
it all into the papered souffle* tin or case, and set it 
in a sharp, but not fierce oven ; as, though this must 
be hot enough to raise the souffle* quickly, it must 
not be so hot as to darken the surface too rapidly at 
first ; in fact, after a few minutes the heat may be 
slightly slackened. The quantities given will require 
about half an hour's cooking. The mixture rises 
enormously in the cooking, therefore the case 
(whether tin, china, or paper, and about 5in. across, 
and 4in. deep) should not be more than half full to 
start with, and should have a band of well-buttered, 
stiffish paper (projecting fully 2in. above the edge 
of the case), firmly tied or fastened round it to 
prevent the contents of the mould running over and 
wasting. (See Fig. 12 of papered mould.) If 
preferred the above mixture may be cooked in 
9227&2J paper or china cases instead of one large 



SOUFFLES, MOUSSES, Ac. 



63 



one, and will take from twelve to fifteen minutes 
to cook. 

A matter deserving attention is the buttering of 
the paper band, and the souffle case, especially if 
the souffle* is to be steamed instead of baked. A 
good coating of butter should be actually spread, 
not merely lightly rubbed (as some cookery books 
advise) on the band and the case, or else the souffle* 
will not turn out neatly, or if baked will be ragged 
when the band is removed. 

All souffle's are made in the above fashion, their 
distinction depending on their seasoning (which 




Fig. 12. 



must always be delicate), and the appropriateness 
of the liquid, used in making the panade. For 
instance, in souffle a la bourgeoise, for which cold , 
roast beef or mutton may be taken, the gravy of the 
meat may be used, or failing this, water strengthened 
with a little Worcester, Harvey, or anchovy sauce, 
and at the last a little wine, may be substituted ; if 
game is to be the foundation, " perfume " a little 
ordinary bone stock with the broken up bones and 
trimmings of the game, a few drops of wine, <fcc, as 
you. choose; for white meat, a delicately flavoured 
white sauce may be employed ; while for fiali wroffik£» 



64 ENTREES. 

I have known careful housewives use the milk in 
which a Finnan haddock had been cooked for 
breakfast, to dilute the panade ; or the remains of 
last night's melted butter or oyster sauce were 
utilised. In fact souffles once mastered, form a 
dainty and invaluable method of using up all sorts 
of scraps that would otherwise be wasted, and for 
that reason should really form an important part of 
the succeeding chapter on rechauffe's. However, for 
gala use, the meat should always be raw, and if 
possible sieved after pounding, though for ordinary 
household use this rather troublesome process may 
be omitted ; but any way care must be bestowed on 
the smoothness of the pounding. 

Mousses differ from souffles by their lightness, as 
for the above proportions four egg yolks should be 
used, and a good spoonful or two of stiffly whipped 
cream should replace one of the egg whites. In fact 
many chefs replace the egg whites entirely by stiffly 
whipped cream, but though this gives a delicious 
and delicate lightness to the dish, it results in so 
soft a mixture as to demand great experience and 
deftness in the cookery. Mousses are always turned 
out, in fact many people hold that the turning out 
of a souffle transforms it into a mousse, but the real 
difference is in the greater lightness of the latter. 
Mousses, like souffles, may be served in smalj 
portions instead of one whole dish, and make 
delicious entrees ; in such cases they are frequently 
called zephyres, from their fragility. Cooks often, 
when experienced in preparing these dishes, omit a 
portion of the pulped meat, te^l&ciiifc it by tiny dice 



BOUFFL&S, HOUSSES, &c. C5 

of any flavouring meat to taste, adding these in at 
the last with the whipped cream. But if this is 
done, the meat or substance so added must always 
have been previously cooked; for instance little 
cubes of foie gras may be added at the last thus and 
impart a most delicate flavour to a inousse of 
chicken or game; ir fac< j,re infinitely to be pre- 
ferred to the use of bottled truffles, which never 
seem to preserve their aroma a* they do when 
imbedded in pate. If truffles are used (and they 
should always be fresh ones; they should be added 
thus at the last, the trimmings having been utilised 
in the making of the panade. (If one may be 
pardoned a digression, it would be well could one 
impress on both mistress and cook that bottled 
truffles are seldom if ever satisfactory, for they do 
not bottle well, and unless of very first rate prepara- 
tion hare little of their distinctive fragrance left 
after a month or two's bottling. A jar of pate de 
foie gras truffe imparts fully more flavour and is 
not at all more expensive than the bottle of truffles;. 
In cooking souffles and mousses it must be borne in 
mind that if baked, the oven door must be very care- 
fully handled when opened to inspect the dish, for 
if opened too soon, or worse still if banged, the 
souffle is all but certain to be spoiled by the shock ; 
if it, or a mousse, is steamed, the lid must not be 
lifted more than once at the most. In this latter 
case the best plan is, about ten minutes after the 
mould has been set in the bain-marie or pan, to lift 
the lid of the latter very slowly and gently, and 
inspect it carefully. If it is rising aVroVj «sA. 



66 ENTRIES. 

evenly it is all right, and may be safely left to take 
care of itself; if on the contrary, it has by then 
risen well up in the paper band it is rising too fast 
and will infallibly fall and toughen when turned out 
The right way is to stand the case containing the 
souffle* or mousse in a pan on a doubly folded sheet 
of paper, pouring boiling water round it to three 
parts the height of the souffle* case, and carefully 
laying a sheet of buttered paper over the souffle* 
before putting on the lid of the outside pan, to 
prevent the steam condensing on this lid from 
falling back on to the mixture and so making it 
uneven and holey ; the surrounding water after 
being brought to the boil is kept at a gentle simmer 
till the souffle is cooked. If this water should by 
any chance boil up sharply the chances are it will 
boil over on to the souffle*, which will in that case 
either curdle, or else will boil itself, when it will go 
into holes and become sodden. The reason for the 
paper under the souffle* case is that as no water can 
get under the pan, the bottom surface of the souffle* 
(which will later on be the top) would toughen and 
harden from the direct heat under it. (This point 
is only too often overlooked with all steamed 
dishes.) 

Next, after souffle's and mousses, come creams, 
a trifle more solid than the former, but still 
lighter than the quenelle, which also belongs to 
this branch of cookery. For creams you increase 
the proportion of pulped meat to the foundation 
sauce or panade, atoning for this by an extra 
Quantity of cream or egg yolks. For |lb. of 



SOUFFLES, MOUSSES, <fcc. 67 

carefully pulped raw meat (it must be raw for 
this) you allow a gill of foundation sauce or 
panade, and naif a pint of cream (which may be 
either the thick separated cream sold in little ju?s, 
or double cream whipped till it thickens, but with- 
out standing up in points, as stiffly frothed cream 
will do), and two whole unbeaten egg*, as, unlike 
souffles and mousses, the cream must not be spongy, 
but perfectly smooth in texture like a custard, how- 
ever light it may (and, indeed, must; be. The 
moulds used for this mixture must be well buttered, 
never more than three-quarters filled, and both 
covered with, and stood on a buttered paper, whilst 
the cooking must be carefully watched. In the case 
of all these light steamed mixtures it is well to cook a 
tiny portion first to see if you hare really got the 
proportions right, as this saves disappointment later. 
Like souffles, &c., creams are cooked when the centre 
feels firm on being touched with the finger. Be very 
careful in turning any of these out, for if this is 
hurried, or the paper is torn away hastily, the sub- 
stance will certainly tear, whilst if a knife has to be 
used to loosen it at the sides it will look ragged and 
uneven. To turn it out properly, lift it very gently, 
sloping the tin or case towards yourself so that the 
mixture falls away from the sides and glides out 
from its own weight; but be very careful to keep 
tight hold of the tin lest it drop from your hands, 
and in falling crush the mixture. A steamed mould 
takes about the same time to cook as a baked one. 
The simplest of all this class of dishes is the quenelle, 
for which you use real panade instead of sauce, using 

T 2 



68 ENTRIES. 

4oz. of panade to &lb. of pulped meat (weighed after 
sieveing), loz. fresh butter, one whole raw egg, and 
a tablespoonful of white sauee or thick cream. 
These are all pounded together, working the egg, 
butter, or cream in at the last, and pounding it till 
you obtain a mass of the consistency of pttte de foie 
gras. Season this carefully with salt, white and 
coralline pepper, and a very little lemon juice. Have 
ready one large or several small and well buttered 
moulds, which may be either plain, or thickly 
sprinkled with lobster coral, coralline pepper, minced 
parsley, or truffles, &c, as you please, and rather 
overfill these moulds with the mixture, rounding 
them into a dome-shape with a hot, wet knife. As 
you fill these moulds strike them sharply now and 
again on the edge of the table to settle down the 
contents. These quenelles are usually poached, t.e. f 
you place the moulds or the quenelles on a greased 
paper in a pan, and pour round them sufficient 
boiling water or stock to just (and only just) cover 
them ; let this re-boil, then draw the pan to the side 
I and keep the outer water steadily at the simmer for 
fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the size of the 
quenelles, without allowing this liquid to boil, or it 
will utterly spoil the appearance of the quenelles. H 
you have no suitable moulds you can shape 
the quenelles in the old-fashioned way with two 
spoons dipped into hot water, and then gently slide 
these shapes into the buttered pan and allow them 
to poach as before. Tiny pea-sized quenelles for 
garnish of all kinds may be prepared by forcing the 
puree from a small-nozzled forcing bag. on to the 



SOUFFLES, MOUSSES, Ac. 69 

saute'-pan buttered as before, in tiny round shapes, 
poaching these as in the previous recipe. Quenelles 
are served, when used as an independent dish, with 
any nice sauce poured over and round them, and a 
delicate vegetable garnish; if small, however, they 
form a very nice garnish to many entrees, such, for 
instance, as the vol-au-vent, timbale a la financiere, 
&c, while, as said above, if made into pea-shaped 
and sized quenelles they are admirable for soups. 

Border moulds, when well buttered, are filled with a 
cream or a quenelle mixture, then steamed, precisely 
like a mousse or souffle* ; panade is usually preferred 
to sauce for these, as it makes them more substantial, 
but care should be taken not to overdo this or they 
will inevitably be stodgy, a fault only too common 
with quenelles as made by British cooks. For the 
panade put |oz. of butter into a pan with a gill of 
milk, stock, or water, as you please, and bring it to 
the boil ; now sift into it 2oz. of fine flour, and stir 
this altogether over the fire till it becomes thick 
enough to ball, when you draw the pan a little to the 
side of the stove (keeping it, however, on a hot part), 
and let it cook a few minutes longer (stirring it at 
intervals to prevent its catching), till the flour is 
thoroughly cooked. (It is, by the way, to neglect of 
this precaution that the unpleasant raw and pasty 
taste of so much melted butter is due.) 

Quenelles and creams are frequently nowadays 
enriched with a delicate ragout of any kind, added 
thus : About half fill the well-buttered mould with 
the quenelle mixture, then with a hot wet spoon, or 
your thumb dipped into hot water, hollow out a 



70 ENTRIES. 

cavity in the centre and fill this up with any ragout 
to taste, finally covering it with more farce, smoothed 
into a dome shape with a hot wet knife. For in- 
stance, a cube of pate de foie gras truffe', or a mix- 
ture of minced cooked sweetbread, cooked meat, 
poultry or game, button mushrooms, truffles, ham 
or tongue, <fcc., may be stirred into a little rich 
veloute* or bechamel, seasoned with salt and pepper, 
and placed in a quenelle of chicken farce, and the 
whole poached as advised above ; or any nice ragout 
on these lines, or a little rather thick oyster or 
shrimp sauce, may be used for brown meat as you 
please. Sometimes, instead of putting the farce 
thus filled into a tinned mould, it is tied into shape 
in a piece of muslin, and simply poached, being when 
cooked turned out on to a hot dish with any rich 
sauce to taste poured over and round it, and a 
garnish of some kind served with it. Prepared thus 
it is frequently known as a boudin, while if small 
rolls of stuffed farce are dished thus, these are often 
termed boudinettes. Lastly, there is the pain, or 
cake, which is usually a combination of fillets of any 
kind of meat, and a rich quenelle or cream mixture. 
For instance, pain de volatile an foie gras may be 
prepared thus : Well butter a round charlotte mould, 
and arrange round the sides neat fillets of chicken, 
previously three parts cooked as for filets de volatile 
a la supreme, pressing these well against the buttered 
sides ; now line the mould pretty thickly with creme 
de volatile flavoured with pate* de foie gras, as 
described above, leaving a small hollow in the centre 
which you fill up with a ragout of cooked sweet- 



SOUFFLES, MOUSSES, <fcc. 71 

bread, tongue, truffle, and foie gras, all cut into 
neat tubes and tossed in a thick rich bechamel 
sauce ; then cover this down with more of the creme 
farce, cover with a buttered paper, and steam as 
described before for souffle's and mousses. These 
meat cakes may also be made with previously cooked 
meat, and consequently answer admirably either as 
a hot rechauffe' or a chaufroix. Almost any good 
farce can be utilised for these pains. For instance, 
the homely liver and bacon will furnish an extremely 
palatable entre'e thus : Cut into dice equal parts of 
fresh calf s liver and parboiled fat bacon, and fry 
these for five minutes with one and a half to two 
small parboiled onions (for a pound of liver), also 
minced, seasoning it all with salt, coralline pepper, 
and finely minced parsley ; then turn it into a mortar 
and pound it all together to a very smooth paste ; 
now add to it some thin fillets of rather lean ham, 
and the yolks of two eggs beaten till light, incor- 
porating these well with the mixture, and lastly, stir 
in quickly the stiffly whipped whites of three eggs ; 
fill a well buttered plain charlotte mould with the 
mixture, and steam it steadily for an hour, when itis 
turned out and served with a good espagnole over 
and round it and a garnish of broiled mushrooms. 
Of course, if possible, this may be made with poultry 
livers, and is rather more delicate, and also more 
expensive ! This farce is also particularly good for 
stuffing birds, such as pigeons when to be served en 
chaufroix; or for larks, ortolans, quails, &c, in 
cases. 
Quenelle meat is sometimes eniioXi^ Vv&v ^s^ 



72 ENTRIES. 

good sauce to taste and truffles or foie gras, and 
then spoonfuls of this are first rolled in flour, shaped 
into the size and form of pigeon's eggs, wrapped in 
small pieces of caul, dipped in liquid butter, and 
then fried a golden brown ; well drained and served 
with appropriate gravy as cr&pinettes (from crepine, 
caul) of whatever the foundation of the quenelle 
mixture may be. 

Boudins a la Czarina. — Take about half a pound 
of chicken farce, as prepared for chicken creams, 
and fill with it a small baking tin about 8in. by 
12in., lay over this a sheet of buttered paper and 
poach it in the usual way from six to eight minutes ; 
then leave this till cold, when you divide it in half 
lengthways, dividing these two strips each into 
eight, mask these with a rich bechamel sauce, 
reduced by rapid boiling to the consistency of very 
thick melted butter, and dip in breadcrumbs twice, 
fry in plenty of fresh boiling fat, and serve deco- 
rated with fried parsley, and send a rich be'chamel 
sauce to table in a boat. 

Boudins of Pheasant a la Prinz Karl. — Prepare 
some quenelle farce with pheasant, mix with it 
about a sixth of its bulk of minced truffles, and let 
it stand on ice for a little to set it ; when firm take 
off pieces the size of a small egg and with your well 
floured hands give these an oval shape slightly 
flattened at the sides (this is the real boudin shape), 
being careful they all match in size and shape ; now 
poach in boiling water, as described above for 
quenelles, for a few minutes, after which drain them 
well and leave them till cold, when you dip them 



SOUFFLES, MOUSSES, &c. 73 

into beaten egg and then into finely minced parsley 
and cooked ham. Ten minutes before they are 
wanted for table toss them over the fire in a well 
buttered pan till perfectly hot but not coloured; 
drain them well, dish neatly either on a fried 
croustade of bread, or mashed potato, and serve 
with a rich Sauce Madere flavoured with stock made 
of the pheasant trimmings. 

Boudins a la Richelieu. — Cut a medium sized 
onion into tiny dice, removing all the skin and hard 
parts, blanch it, rinse it well, and then let it stew in 
some butter till perfectly cooked but not coloured, 
keeping it stirred with a spoon ; at the end of ten 
minutes again drain it well and mix it into about 
three-quarters of a pound of good quenelle farce. 
This farce may be either of chicken, game, rabbit, or 
veal. Have ready* some strips of buttered paper 
5in. long by 3in. wide, place on each band of paper 
a piece of the quenelle shaped to an oblong 4in. 
wide by 2in. long and 2in. deep; now with the 
handle of a spoon lift out half of the farce leaving a 
hollow about an inch square, fill up this with a 
mince of cooked tongue, cooked chicken, and cooked 
truffles, all tossed in. some very much reduced 
allemande sauce. When all the boudins are filled 
cover the filling with more farce, smoothing it over 
with a hot wet knife. A quarter of an hour before 
serving them, poach these quenelles carefully as 
described above, remove the papers, and serve with a 
rich game espagnole sauce. This dish can be varied 
almost indefinitely according to the meat used for 
the quenelles. For instance if you \u& <&u&ss& 



74 ENTRIES. 

farce, a rich ragout of truffles, or even a thick puree 
of the same may be used instead of the mince 
previously given, a rich sauce Madere replacing the 
espagnole. Or again if grouse or partridge is used 
instead of chicken the hovdim may be filled with a 
thick puree of mushrooms; a good brown sauce 
made from the bones and carcase of the birds, 
delicately flavoured with sherry and the mushroom 
trimmings, being served with them ; or if beef be 
used for the farce, rich and rather thick oyster or 
shrimp sauce may supply the filling, the boudins 
dressed en couronne with a good espagnole round 
and the centre filled with oyster, shrimp, or prawn 
sauce to taste. Needless to say the name of this 
dish must vary with the material used for it. 

Gr&me Francillon. — Have ready about a pound of 
chicken farce prepared as for creams ; well butter 
some pretty little plain moulds (egg moulds are 
perhaps the prettiest) and garnish them to taste 
with little pea shapes cut from a cucumber, pressing 
these well against the sides of the moulds; now 
partly fill the moulds with the cream mixture, 
making a well in the centre of each, fill this with 
cooked asparagus points tossed in reduced veloute* 
sauce, cover over with more farce as in the boudins 
(or if egg moulds are used join the two parts 
together) and poach or steam them for twelve or 
fifteen minutes, and serve on a border of chicken 
farce which has been masked with veloute* sauce, 
add a garnish of delicately stewed cucumber and 
cooked asparagus points and serve. 
Creme de Lapereau a la Reine. — Have ready a 



SOUFFLES, MOUSSES, Ac. 75 

pound of delicate rabbit quenelle farce, butter a 
border mould either plain or fluted, or a timbale 
mould as you please, strew it generously with 
chopped truffles, and fill it with the quenelle 
mixture ; steam it for half an hour, then turn it out 
and serve with a good veloute sauce. A portion of 
pate* de foie gras truffe carefully mixed in with the 
quenelle farce as described above adds greatly to the 
flavour of this dish. 

Creme de Biz de Veau a la Franraise. — Blanch 
one large or two small calves' sweetbreads, then 
rinse them well, and place them in a stew-pan with 
a sliced carrot and onion and a bunch of herbs, with 
enough well-flavoured light stock to just cover them ; 
bring this to the boil, then draw it to the side of the 
stove and let it all simmer gently and steadily for 
about an hour, when you lift it out and press it till 
cold between two plates. (Set the stock in which 
these were cooked aside carefully.) When the sweet- 
bread is quite cold remove all skin, sinew, <fec, and 
rub the sweetbread through a coarse wire sieve ; add 
half a pound of this puree by degrees to 6oz. of 
panade previously pounded till smooth, with two 
large tablespoonfuls of creamy and rather thick 
Bechamel sauce, a small wine glassful of sherry, an 
ounce of fresh butter, two tablespoonfuls of thick 
cream, a little salt and white pepper, and lastly 
three raw eggs ; when the sweetbread has been 
thoroughly added to all this, put it into a forcing bag 
with a large plain pipe, and force it into little bombe 
moulds (any pretty small moulds will do) previously 
buttered and sprinkled with c\lo^^l \xvsS&& *xA. 



76 ENTRIES. 

tongue, and poach these for twenty-five to thirty 
minutes. When cooked turn out on a hot dish and 
serve with a rich allemande, or with a sauce made 
with the liquid in which the sweetbreads were cooked, 
3trongly flavoured with shallot and mushrooms, clari- 
fied in the usual way with white of egg, and then 
thickened with arrowroot previously rubbed down in 
a little sherry, some truffles cooked in wine and stock 
being added as a garnish. 

Creme a la Monza. — Butter some little moulds, 
and strew them with finely chopped parsley, and 
cooked tongue or ham, then line these moulds with 
a thin layer of chicken farce, and fill up the moulds 
with a puree of partridge ; poach these moulds in 
the usual way for fifteen to twenty minutes ; when 
firm turn them out on to a pure*e of potatoes or 
green flageolet beans, and serve with a rich 
espagnole sauce. 

Crepinettes a la d'Estine. — Take a pound of 
partridge quenelle farce and add to it about 6oz. of 
par-boiled fat bacon and 4oz. of truffles, both cut 
into small dice (or use tiny cubes of pate* de foie 
gras truffe') ; mix with these a tablespoonful of 
espagnole sauce and the same of strong glaze pre- 
pared from the partridge bones, seasoning to taste 
with cayenne ; mix this all well together, then take 
spoonfuls of this mixture into your well floured 
hands, and mould these into egg shapes, wrap each 
in a piece of caul, flatten slightly on both sides, dip 
them in clarified butter, and fry a light golden 
brown, drain well, dish them in a circle, pour round 
them a demi-glace of partridge stock, into which yon 



SOUFFLE MOUSSES, Ac. 



» I 



have stirred half an ounce of fresh butter. wd 'tie- 
juice of half a lemon, and serve very hot. 

CrepineHes a la Favorite. — Prepare 4ome zood 
rabbit quenelle farce, using espagnoie .nstead »t 
white sauce and some pate <ie foie zm* Tufte -. iiave 
ready some pieces of caul and lav on -*ach i *>*w 
spoonful of the farce, place on this a tiny dllet >t 
rabbit, seasoned with white pepper, a very little <iait. 
and a d'TTxelle mixture ; cover this again with "he 
farce, smooth it in a dome shape with i 'not Tret 
knife, and wrap the caul all round them, trimming 
it neatly ; dip these quenelles into fine breadcrumbs, 
next into well beaten whole egg", and then into bread 
again, pressing the crumbs neatly round them with 
the blade of the knife. A quarter of an hour before 
serving, broil them over a slow clear fire, and as soon 
as they are coloured on one side turn them Lightly 
and finish cooking the other. Dish them neatly on 
a border of fried bread, filling the centre with cooked 
mushrooms and very small poached quenelles, pour- 
ing a rich game-flavoured espagnole sauce over the 

whole. 

Custard (Savoury). — Beat three eggs into one and 
a half gills of cream or preferably half a gill of 
cream and a gill of strong stock, seasoning it rathei 
highly with Cayenne, chopped parsley, chives or 
shallot, and some grated tongue or ham ; mix it all 
well and pour this custard into small well buttered 
cups, and steam them for ten minutes. Heat as 
many cooked or canned artichoke bottoms as you 
have custards, in a little boiling water, then drain 
well, turn a custard out on to each, &&& «&r*<W\£xi ^ 



78 ENTRIES. 

very rich thick sauce round. The kind of sauce 
depends entirely on what you have flavoured the 
custards with ; for instance, game stock in the 
custards would require a rich espagnole made with 
game. If minced ham or tongue be added to the 
shape a nice tomato sauce might be used, and so on. 

Chicken Souffle a la Baronne. — Scrape off all the 
meat from the legs of. a raw chicken, mince and 
pound it and rub it through a fine wire sieve ; to 
each ounce of this meat after sieving it add one raw 
egg yolk, a finely chopped truffle, and a dust each of 
salt and coralline pepper; mix this well, then for 
every 2oz. of meat allow a gill of stiffly whipped 
cream, and the whites of two large eggs, previously 
whisked to a firm froth with a pinch of salt. Have 
ready some small stiff paper cases previously oiled 
on the outside, and then dried ; fill these three parts 
full with the souffle" mixture, and bake for twelve or 
fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. Serve at once 
on a napkin. 

Souffle of Pheasant. — Cut all the flesh from the 
breast of a raw pheasant, mince, pound, and sieve 
it, then mix the puree with half a pint of very 
stiffly whipped cream, seasoning it to taste with salt, 
pepper, and minced truffles or mushrooms, put this 
mixture into a buttered mould, and steam for twenty 
minutes, then turn out and serve with Supreme sauce 
poured all over it. If chicken, rabbit, or veal are 
used for this dish you will need three-quarters of a 
pint of stiff cream, and a good flavouring of grated 
ham or tongue. 

Souffle of Partridge a la Boyale. — Prepare a nice, 



SOUFFLES, MOUSSES, Ac. 70 

cream mixture with partridges, flavouring it with 
strong game glaze and a little creamy Bechamel 
sauce ; stir in the yolks of two or three eggs, at the 
last add the whites of these stiffly whisked, mixing 
it all lightly and quickly together. Fill some paper 
cases with this preparation, brush their tops over 
lightly with demi-glace, place them on a baking 
sheet, and bake them in a moderate oven for about 
twenty minutes, then dish them on a napkin, and 
serve. 

Souffle a la Victoria. — Mince and pound some raw 
beef, and sieve it; then to half a pound of this 
puree add a gill of thick brown sauce, a few drops of 
Mrs. A. B. Marshall's carmine, a full tablespoonf ul of 
thick cream, a good dust of coralline pepper, salt, and 
the raw yolks of four eggs, with a tablespoonful of 
sherry ; when this is all well mixed add the whites 
of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth, and when 
smooth, put it into a forcing bag with a large plain 
pipe, and force it out into a plain charlotte mould 
previously thickly buttered and ornamented with 
rounds of cut truffle and sliced cooked macaroni. 
Poach this mould in the ordinary way for about half 
an hour, then turn out and serve with a rich 
espagnole, Perigueux, or other highly seasoned sauce 
to taste. 

Fains. — These delicate entrees are best moulded 
either in plain charlotte moulds or in border moulds, 
the latter especially taking less time to poach (a 
great consideration, on account of their delicacy), 
then turned out and served with a rich sauce over 
and round them, and a varied gpcra&\i, c&tast 



80 ENTRIES. 

Financiere, Montglas, or Eeform, &c, according to 
the composition of the pains. It is always advisable 
when preparing this dish to poach a little in a small 
mould, so as to be sure of having the consistency 
right. 

Pain a la Nemours. — Prepare a rich crime 
mixture with the flesh of two or three partridges 
(reserving, however, the breast of one), using a 
reduced Sauce Madere instead of the usual white 
sauce ; fill the plain, well-buttered mould with this 
(or a timbale mould is prettier), and poach or steam 
for three-quarters of an hour; just before serving 
it slice down the breast previously set aside, and 
cook these slices in the oven in a well-buttered 
baking tin, seasoning them with a little sherry, 
pepper, and salt ; turn out the mould and pour over 
it a very smooth Perigueux sauce, have ready heated 
a bottle of Financiere garnish, mix the cooked fillets 
with this, arrange this all in little heaps round the 
mould, and serve at once. 

Pain de Lievre. — Take the fillets from the back of 
a good hare, cutting each fillet into three or four 
pieces, as you please, trimming them neatly, and 
larding them with tiny lardoons of par-boiled bacon, 
arrange these on a buttered baking tin with a little 
claret or port wine, pepper, and salt, and cover them 
with a buttered paper. With the rest of the flesh 
, make a creme farce, fill a border mould with it, being 
careful the mixture settles down well into the tin, 
and poach for twenty-five or thirty minutes according 
to the size of the mould ; just about ten minutes 
before it is ready, cook the little fillets in the oven 



SOUFFLES, MOUSSES, Ac. 81 

for six or eight minutes, then turn out the pain, 
arranging the fillets round the top, and serve with a 
rich hare sauce and dried cherries. 

Petit Pain de Becassines. — Prepare a brown ereme 
mixture with the flesh of some raw snipe, using the 
broken up carcases to make a rich and strongly 
flavoured Espagnole sauce. Take the flesh from the 
breast of a cooked snipe and cut it into Julienne 
strips, and some truffles to match, moistening this 
with a little of the sauce made from the snipe, 
boiled in till thick. Now half fill some well buttered 
bombe moulds with the crime mixture, then put in a 
spoonful of the Julienne, and cover with more of the 
farce; poach in the usual manner, turn out and 
serve with the sauce above mentioned. 

Pain de Volatile an Foie Gras. — Prepare a good 
chicken cream mixture, and with this half fill a well 
buttered plain mould ; turn out a small jar of pate 
de foie gras truffe, remove all the fat, &c., and place 
it in the centre of the mixture, covering it all up 
with more of the farce ; poach or steam in the usual 
way, then turn out and serve with a rich Bechamel 
or Supreme sauce round it. 

Quenelles of Grouse a la Windsor. — Take the flesh 
from two good grouse or blackcock, and jnake with 
them a delicate quenelle mixture ; meanwhile, pre- 
pare a strong game stock with the carcases, covered 
with a little ordinary stock, and let this cook for 
about three-quarters of an hour till strongly 
flavoured. Now with this moisten a brown roux, 
made with l£oz. of butter, and loz. of flour, season 
to taste with salt, a little cayenne, and. *<yo& ^>\\. 

G 



82 ENTRIES. 

wine ; ruennwhile. put the quenelle mixture into as 
many snia'l nioulls as you need ; with the rest, if 
any be left, fill a rather shallow border mould (fail- 
ing the grouse farce, use any other good quenelle 
mixture), and poach both the quenelles and the 
border mould ; then turn them out and dish the 
quenelles on the border, and pour the sauce over and 
round it, filling up the centre with small broiled 
mushrooms, slices of cooked tongue heated in a little 
stock and wine, and some poultry livers, carefully 
sautes in butter and sherry. 

Quenelles of Babbit a la Sevigne. — Prepare a nice, 
not too solid, quenelle mixture with the flesh of one 
largo or two small rabbits ; butter some small patty 
pans (preferably oval ones), fill them with the 
quenelle mixture, making a hollow in the centre of 
each with the handle of the spoon ; into this put a 
teaspoonful of rather stiff mushroom puree, cover 
them with the quenelle farce, smoothing this over in 
a dome shape with a warm, wet knife ; strew over 
them some finely minced truffles, pressing these well 
into phuv with a knife, and poach in the usual way 
l»» i ei^ht or ten minutes; have ready cooked some 
1.1 uv pea- shaped quenelles, drain these well, mix them 
in t Hit to well reduced allemande sauce with some 
i.ii.ilinil button mushrooms and sliced truffle. Dish 
Hi-* i|U.*iu'lles with the truffled side uppermost in a 
!•.• I ■ 'toiitoii, and fill up the centre with the 
,.. .. .!i.- ... \«\, and serve with, if liked, a little more 
.': ... u» !■• ..iuee iu. a boat. 

i it - i »»•■!. ui may be either a plain slice deprived 
.1.. .Io1k\\AaA\ iT\ft^LXDL\yottKt\ «t it mav be 



• ■ i 



SOUFFLES, MOUSSES, Ac. 83 

used by Hollowing out a slice 2in. thick, leaving a 
rim round the edge and then frying this ; drain it 
well, dust the edge round with coralline pepper 
and finely minced parsley, and dish the rabbit 
quenelles, &e., neatly in it. This is a particularly 
pretty way of serving a small entree. 



o 2 



CHAPTER V. 

TIMBALES, VOL-ATJ-VENT, PATTIES, 4c. 

Like souffles, mousses, &c, the entrees treated of in 
this chapter have been pretty generally relegated to 
the haute cuisine, and as such considered entirely 
outside the sphere of the ordinary cook. This, how- 
ever, is a mistake, for, granted that " cook " can 
produce good pastry, she can perfectly well make 
either vol-au-vent, or even a timbale; while, if 
she has not got what is technically known as "a 
light hand for pastry," the most ordinary meat 
pie or fruit tart is beyond her reach. Unfortu- 
nately, the art of pastry making is not easily 
acquired from description, so, if possible, a cook 
should always be taught this part of her pro- 
fession by demonstration and practice. Have ready 
fib. of good puff paste, to which you have given 
six turns (be very careful in the rolling out of this ; 
all puff paste needs rolling evenly if it is to rise 
properly; but for vol-au-vent, which, as its name 
implies, is the lightest form of pastry, this precaution 
is doubly requisite), and with a round or oblong 
cutter, about 8in. in diameter (or, if oval, 9in. by 
6in.), stamp out evenly a round of this paste from 
fin. to Ijin. thick, and slip it on to a buttered 



TTMBALES, YOL-AU-VENT, PATTIES, &c. 85 

baking dish ; now, with another cutter, stamp out 
a round inside the first, allowing an inch margin 
all round, and being careful to press the inner 
cutter only about two-thirds the depth of the 
crust ; then brush it all over with a beaten egg, and 
place the sheet with the vol-au-veut upon it into 
a brisk oven and bake for twenty to thirty minutes, 
according to the thickness you elect to make your 
vol-au-vent. You then lift out the inner rim, and 
carefully scrape off all the inside underdone and 
rather greasy paste, without injuring the sides of the 
case, and cover any thin places with a flake or two 
of the crust removed from the centre, or the gravy 
will leak out and spoil the appearance of the dish. 
If properly made, the paste will have risen pretty 
high and be quite light and flakey. It is now 
filled with any rich ragout to taste, the inner round, 
carefully freed from any greasy underdone paste, 
being placed lightly on the top to act as a cover. 
Little patty cases, which are simply miniature vol- 
au-vent, are made in precisely the same way. 
Some cooks make their vol-au-vent by stamping 
out three or four rounds of puff paste, according 
to the height they wish the vol-au-vent to be, 
leaving one round whole, but cutting the centres 
out of the others, and these are then baked for 
fifteen to twenty minutes, and when cooked lightly 
brushed over with white of egg t and piled one on 
the other, one of the inner circles being used as 
a cover. But though this is a trifle easier to 
make than the proper way, the effect is not nearly 
so satisfactory. The difference between a timbale 



86 ENTRIES. 

and a vol-au-vent is that the latter is always made 
with puff paste, and is allowed to rise to the fullest 
capacity of the paste ; whereas, for a timbale, short 
paste is used, well pricked to prevent its rising, and 
is made in a mould, in which the timbale crust is 
kept till the last minute. For the paste take £lb. 
of fine sifted flour, 4oz. butter, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, the yolk of an egg and about a gill of water 
(this depends a good deal on the flour) ; make a 
well or hollow in the flour (technically called a 
" bay "), and into this put the egg, salt, butter, and 
two-thirds of the water, and with your fingers work 
this all to a rather firm dough; next dip your 
fingers into the flour to free them from the paste 
sticking to them, sprinkle a little more water over it, 
and work it up till it comes clear away from the 
sides of the basin in a ball ; then throw a doubled 
cloth over the basin till the paste is wanted, when 
you roll it out, and with it line a well buttered 
mould, pressing the paste well to take the shape 
sharply (one of the jointed moulds with hinged 
sides, is the nicest for this, as the timbale when 
cooked can be more readily and safely turned out), 
prick it well all over, put a sheet of paper inside 
and fill this with rice, Ac, and bake; a cover to 
match should be prepared from puff paste, and 
cooked with the timbale. Formerly, a timbale was 
cooked in a stewpan, and, indeed, properly it is a form 
of pie, mostly served cold. Another method is to line 
a mould with the crust, as described above, then pack 
it with whatever you mean to fill it with, generally 
a rich ragout of chicken, macaroni, cream, Parmesan 



TIMBAIiES, YOIrAU-TEJTI FJE^n^jDi i: fir 



cheese, Ac ; make a smfcZ iiiut jl tL+ i/usi* -rat 
which you corer it, ana iate- iml turL x mr ini£ 
serve with or witboos: inA 0^*7 rnmiL x. Ix 
France meat pica, oH imima mntrimm*. am 
made in this way, cnLhr cfeciur ir:»n Tmrinti 
pies by their delicacy aaa£ Tirnrnaa.. n* in*- nta*; » 
always cooked first* » imici nuj li^ -nmn- -met. <»• 
bake the crust medr 5t ncrai Z^ztt *jzzuk cr 
metal rameqnin cases £aai w±i zaar^t mi IZkil 
with a dainty ragout smuis- ^a^rnisLuziy KEraniri*' 
entrees with a mininnmt <a£ tr:>Llu&. ** hjlt nafu lzxiI 
ends can be used for tie jjT^t-je uii lxt im-tf -cf 
paste may be used for lit jsissry. .sejt T^u^nlitsr a 
tiny Tent hole mut, in er-ery -cm**, :* na Lr. iz>f a 
corresponding tiny rosette of jstftzy bh£~*i wiii n^. 
to hide it when serred. 

Where, however, the «x>t olecjvK ir»,V^ «£>* T&£ie 
properly, a baker will always fotc:j ti~ req-aired 
vol-au-vent, or patty case. Bet raaZy h is far- 
better to get the cook to make h, as i: KZ.>szr&z<e& 
her to be allowed to make the smart j&r^s of the 
dinner as well as the more common plaoe portions. 
While on the subject of substitutes for the home- 
made dainty, I may mention that nothing surpasses 
in delicacy one of the croute*, in which pate de foie 
gras is nowadays so often serred, needless to say, 
after its first contents have been consumed. On one 
occasion I encountered a pate which looked wonder- 
fully familiar to me, though its contents were not 
what I expected. Later on my friend confessed to 
me that, haying used the inside of a pork pie for 
sandwiches, her economic instinct had wr^A \\st ta 



88 ENTRIES. 

utilise tlie pastry case for her ragout, and I must 
admit her experiment was completely successful. 

Besides these timbales, made with pastry, there 
are also the so-called timbales, when a plain mould 
of any shape to taste is thickly buttered, boiled 
macaroni being then arranged neatly all round to 
form a kind of casing, which is then filled up with any 
ragout to taste. The macaroni must be just cooked, 
but not over-cooked, or it will become pappy with 
the second cooking ; and care must be taken to keep 
it as unbroken as possible, so that it may lie evenly 
round and round (like a beehive, for which reason 
these patties, when small, are often called ruches a la 
So and So, according to the filling) ; for this dish 
usually a rich farce or creme is used as the filling, 
this being hollowed in the centre (as described for 
the boudin), and a piece of foie gras, or any rich 
ragout, placed therein, the whole being then covered 
in with more farce and the macaroni. Again, 
timbales are sometimes (abroad especially) lined with 
polenta or nouilles, and then filled in with financiere, 
scraps of poultry, cockscombs, brains, &c, as you 
like. Needless to say that if the cook is honestly 
incapable of making these cases you must trust to 
your baker, or else content yourself with croustades, 
which latter are by no means to be despised. For 
these, cut a slice of bread straight off the loaf about 
l^in. to 2in. thick, trim this neatly into shape either 
oblong, round, or square, then mark out a line from 
fin. to lin. inside the outer rim all round, sinking 
the blade of the knife to two-thirds of the depth of 
the bread, and fry this bread in plenty of hot fat till 



TTMBALES, VOL-AU-VENT, PATTIES, Ac. 89 

of a golden brown ; then drain it well, and remove 
the inner circle or square, trimming off all the under- 
done, greasy bread inside just as you did for the 
vol-au-vent, and set it and the cover in the oven to 
crisp, being careful it does not burn. Fill this with 
any ragout to taste exactly as you would a pastry 
case. These croustades can be made any size you 
please. In many houses, moreover, the fillings used 
for these timbales are frequently simply packed into 
fireproof china cases with lids to them, and no pastry 
or even nouille paste used at all, finishing these cases 
off just as you would the corresponding timbales. 
This form of mould takes its name from its shape, 
which was considered like a kettledrum (timbale) 
and is straight-sided, the top being rounded like a 
bowl. Of late years the timbale mould is made in 
a border shape, the centre open, and so the name 
originally always implying a pie of some kind, has 
come to be applied to creams, and even ices. 

Vol-au-Vent Financiere. — Prepare the pastry case 
as described above, then have ready a ragout of tiny 
quenelles made of any raw white meat, any remains 
of cooked brains or sweetbread, cut up small, little 
fillets of cooked chicken, small strips of cooked 
tongue, and, if at hand, a bottle of financiere garnish 
well drained, and heat all this in a rich veloute or 
bechamel, to which you add at the last the yolk of 
one or more eggs, beaten up with a spoonful or two 
of cream; then pour this all into the vol-au-vent, 
and serve at once. As a fact, anything can be used 
for a vol-au-vent, and it is a plat very dear to the 
thrifty French housewife in consequence,^ \!t,«TC&?&& '. 



90 ENTREES. 

her to use up her scraps of all sorts in a dainty 
manner. The above is the regular vol-au-vent, to 
which oysters, prawns, truffles, mushrooms, foie 
gras, &c, may be added ad lib., but the culinary 
purist would call this, from its white sauce, a vol-au- 
vent Toulouse, a financiere ragout being strictly, 
served in a light brown sauce. Needless to say, 
small patties and cases may be filled in exactly the 
same way, and take their name from their filling ; as 
for example, petite vol-au-vent aux huitres, when the 
cases are filled up with a rich and rather thick 
oyster sauce; aux crevettes, and de homara a la 
creme, when creamy shrimp or lobster sauce is used; 
or p. v. a la Montglas (minced chicken, tongue, 
truffle, <&c., tossed in white or brown sauce) ; a la 
Milanaise (the filling consisting of shredded ham, 
chicken, truffles, macaroni, &c, tossed in white sauce 
strongly flavoured with grated Parmesan cheese) ; 
p. v. a la royale (filled with minced foie gras, chicken, 
sweetbreads, mushrooms, Ac., tossed in creamy 
bechamel sauce coloured with lobster butter) ; p. v. a 
la Valenciennes (filled with minced chicken, lobster, 
mushrooms, artichoke bottoms, and rice, all tossed 
in veloute* rather strongly flavoured with curry 
butter) ; p. v. a la Barras (the filling consisting of 
turned olives cooked and heated in a bigarade sauce, 
with tiny fillets of cooked wild duck, or, indeed, 
duck of any kind) ; p. v. dla Luculltis (for this have 
some tiny quenelles poached in the usual way, and 
made from the creme mixture given in the chapter 
on souffles, &c, some cubes of foie gras, and three 
or four raw truffles cooked either in champagne or 



TIMBALES, VOL-AU-VENT, PATTIES, &c. 91 

Rhine wine, and then sliced into julienne strips ; put 
a spoonful of rather thick Champagne sauce into 
each patty, and on this place the quenelles and the 
foie gras, then the truffle julienne, and lastly a 
plover's egg, being careful to have everything very 
hot) ; finally, there are petits vol-au-vent a la 
mSnagere, when the cases are filled with a hot mince 
of any roast meat, heated in a good wine-flavoured 
sauce, a small poached egg being placed on the top 
just at the last instead of a cover, but this more 
properly belongs to the rechauffes. 

Croustade a la Ohampenoise. — Prepare a bread 
croustade as described above, and keep it hot. Mean- 
time prepare a ragout as follows : Three-parts cook 
a good slice of ham, then take it up and cut it into 
little dice ; now return it to the pan with a cooked 
carrot, some mushrooms, and two truffles cut to 
match; toss these all in a little fresh butter, 
moistening it now and again with clear stock and a 
glass of champagne ; let it reduce till fairly thick, 
then remove all fat, and stir into it the breast of a 
cold roast fowl, two well washed anchovies, some 
blanched gherkins and some parsley, all minced 
small, and let it heat without actually boiling, season- 
ing it to taste with salt, white pepper, and lemon 
juice ; then pour it all into the crouton, garnishing 
the latter with little rolls of fried ham, and if at 
hand, some tiny chicken quenelles. If liked, sweet- 
bread or pate* de foie gras may be sliced down and 
added to this ragout, which is an excellent way of 
using up otherwise unproducible scraps left over 
from a dinner party. Like many other disbar oi \k& 



92 ENTRIES. 

sort this croustade would be very expensive if all its 
contents had to be got ready for itself, but when 
made in this way of dainty scraps, it is really 
a case of what our grandmothers called " elegant 
economy." It is on care of this kind that the 
success and inexpensiveness of cooking depends. It 
is not only in knowing and obtaining the best things 
that a good housewife scores, but in knowing how 
to utilise to the best advantage the bits left over. 
Any remains of game, hash, fricassee, salmi, &c, 
can all be served in croustades, and also in patties. 

Tourte Bourgeoise. — For this have ready some 
rough puff paste, and lay it on a baking tin, then 
place on it any cooked ragout (as described for the 
filling of the croustades or vol-au-vent), mixed with 
rather stiff sauce, so that it does not run about too 
much, then cover this with another sheet of paste 
cut to match, and lay this over the first, turning up 
the moistened edges, and rolling them between your 
fingers ; leave a small hole in the top, and have a 
tiny rosette of paste baked with it to fill it with. 
Bake this till nicely coloured and well risen, then lift 
it out, add a little suitable gravy through the hole in 
the top, which you then fill with the above-mentioned 
.rosette and serve very hot. Tiny patties made in 
this way are also extremely good. 

Timbale Milanaise. — Line a mould with the short 
crust as described above, and have ready some just 
boiled macaroni, enough to about quarter fill the 
pie; now put it back into a pan with some good 
meat gravy or stock, one part Parmesan to three 
parts Qrujere cheese, and as much butter as you 



TIMB ALBS, Y0L-AU-T55T, ?jlTT3=. kci R 

hare cheese, then 1»t mz> txa§ n : l:.^ » rzxr vcnr 
livers, bits of game or pyijzrr. za^:* x i&s. c*. 
(you really can put in precj Tca*fi -rzar 7 11 Zi^ue- . 
and let it all mmnyr vjez&e: -fetj 22121.7 i*jr"7 11 
forty-five minutes. Xow &*: smut iLr»^t yf inrr>r 
oyer the bottom of tht p»*i*-.j3Lft£ -.mrxuk. mrrz-c* 
this with grated cheese aai a Izsitb y?* r **z *iiii "ii^a 
lay in the mixture toti £av» b=?ex ^•-• a-*r«*» 'nn^air 
the macaroni into It in. jwiraa tixi im^r.^r *s»*j. 
layer lightly with cheese. p>sr :^*r n i.17 smr^ 
you may hare left, «yr*r -it*-- m n* r 3 : ;*-tfvt 
pinching the edges well to2%a*r- ti*i -j^t ijr n*--* 
an hour. Then tnrn c?ar azil *£?-*•* ^&i -jr wsa. 
rich gravy. This dish naj bt *nir>*fi lju-jji 
indefinitely. For nmaiw*, I 2 la SuyS*z&j*. vi^o. 
tomato sauce diluted with zrhrr i* -Li^i mxr^^i gf 
pure gravy, and stewed berf ss.t in.-. i»3fc.t y&'y&, 
cubes of fat and lean ba2>n, az&I L*rr>iar'jfc zh&a 
balls are stirred into the macaroni, li**: wLvj* bxsz 
finished off as before: T. aUa romMi^ wi^a xinr 
sausages, the breasts of any little biri*, <jsJk&l 
brains, Ac, are all mixed into the gravy-steeped 
macaroni, and the whole is again finished off as 
before. Another form of filling is with rav'sAi*\ 
for this you need nouille paste made with ^lb. fine 
flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, the yolks of four 
raw eggs, and sufficient milk or water to bring it all 
to a stiff paste ; roll this out very thin, then cut it 
into oblongs about 2in. or 3in. long by lin. to ljin. 
wide; put into each of these a spoonful of finely 
minced meat, raw or cooked, rather highly seasoned 
with herbs, &c., and moistened with a little {gravy^ 



94 ENTRIES. 

or tomato sauce, and fold the raviolis over into a 
square, pinching the ends well together, after which 
you drop them into fast boiling salted water, and 
simmer for thirty minutes. Lift them out with a 
skimmer, and drain well. Have ready the paste- 
lined timbale and pack it as before with the raviolis, 
a good dust of black pepper and grated cheese, and 
enough thick tomato sauce to fill up the interstices, 
and bake as before. 

Polenta Timbale. — Prepare the polenta by 
dropping handfuls of Indian corn meal gradually 
into a saucepanful of boiling salted water, stirring 
it steadily till the flour is thoroughly cooked and the 
polenta becomes like porridge. It must be remem- 
bered that the meal takes up a great deal of water, 
a pint of liquid to a not over- large handful of meal 
is about the right proportion. Butter and grated 
cheese may be added in the making, and certainly 
add to the flavour of the polenta. The butter should 
be put into the boiling water at the first, but the 
cheese is sprinkled in as you stir the mixture. When 
this polenta is very thick and stiff turn it out 
on to a dish or slab and let it become quite cold, 
when it will be of about the thickness of a stiff 
cornflour shape. Cut this polenta out into long 
fingers the depth of the timbale mould, butter the 
latter well, lay in the bottom a round of polenta about 
^in. thick, then arrange the fingers all round, just 
as you would line a Charlotte russe. Now fill up the 
centre with grated cheese (Parmesan), pieces of the 
polenta, slices of Gruyere cheese, balls of forcemeat, 
or little cakes of sausage meat, «\ae&&&\raccL tst *aaj 



TIMBALES, VOL-ATJ-YENT, PATTIES. &c. 95 

meat, cooked poultry livers, and red pepper, Tvith 
pepper and salt to taste, some pieces of butter, and 
a very little stock from the stock pot ; cover with 
another disc of the polenta, and bake for an hour. 
This may be made in just the sain*- way with 
macaroni. (These dishes lend themselves most suc- 
cessfully to a vegetarian style, tomato sauc or 
vegetable stock replacing the meat sauces, whilst 
mushrooms, artichoke bottoms, &c., cau be used 
instead of the meat itself.) 

Timbale de Macaroni a la Roruair^. — Line a w^U 
buttered mould which has been rather thick lv 
sprinkled with vermicelli, with good lard past*:, 
pressing this well home into the shape of the mould ; 
have ready stewed a rabbit or an old fowl (or a 
corresponding amount of cooked veal, or other whit** 
meat, as long as it is lean) cut up small, 2oz. of 
boiled macaroni, and a little cooked vermicelli, all 
cut into inch lengths, 2oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 
a little very finely minced shallot or chives, pepper 
and salt to taste, and either a few blanched almonds 
or a handful of pignole, or fircone kernels (these are 
not indispensable adjuncts^, mix these all lightly 
together and place in the mould ; add from one- 
fourth to one-third of a pint of cream or new milk, 
cover with a round of the paste and bake for an 
hour. Turn out and serve with brown, white, or 
tomato sauce as you please. This, like a good many 
of the other timbales, is very nice if the ragout is 
packed into a well buttered pie dish, then covered 
with puff paste in the ordinary way, and baked like 
the common pie. 



96 ENTREES. 

Timbale de Nouilles an Jambon. — Make a nouille 
timbale as described for the polenta timbale, only 
using instead of the polenta the nouille paste given 
for the raviolis; blanch the pieces of nouille in 
salted water, and set them aside to cool after 
seasoning them with pepper and salt ; then line a 
well buttered plain Charlotte mould with this paste, 
the prettiest way being to put a disc of the paste at 
the bottom, and all round this a row of triangles cut 
from the nouille paste, points upwards, and then 
finish with a second layer of triangles points down- 
wards, fitting just between the points of the first 
row ; now fill this up with nouilles like the raviolis 
(only filling these with a herb farce flavoured with 
a little anchovy instead of meat), pieces of York, 
Bayonne, or other very good cooked ham, cut into 
dice, a good sprinkling of Parmesan cheese (grated) 
and sufficient rich allemande sauce to moisten the 
whole duly ; then finish off, like the Polenta timbale. 

Croustade a la Chasseur. — Prepare a croustade of 
fried bread as given above, and set it in the oven to 
crisp ; meanwhile cut the fillets from a leveret or 
two rabbits (or any game or even poultry to taste), 
and saute them in butter, a little stock, and a little 
wine ; cut some cooked macaroni into inch lengths, 
and mix it with either the stock made with the 
rabbit bones, or some tomato sauce, mixing into 
this lightly some stewed or broiled mushrooms, and 
some fried ham or bacon cut into not too small dice, 
and season pretty highly. Now lift out the crous- 
tade, drain it, and arrange the fillets of rabbit 
round the edge, pouring a little sauce (the same 



TDfBALES, V0L-AU-VE5T. PATTIES. 4c. 07 

you need for the macaroni) smoothly ov^r "Lieni izti 
fill up the centre with the macarcni n&itir. p»~_i^r i* 
up pretty highly. If you use hare f :r dbia iiaa m -t 
herb farce balls and a very little zrasel Pxzt^r^lz. 
with the macaroni, in addition to the ziijLr>:c_* 
and ham, using rather richly fiavotired cnw^ aj:«r 
to which you hare added a little red wize. This 
dish can manifestlT be varied indeii=r:e>. 

Petite* Timbale* de Macaroni an 2 kmi-rt* — W~ll 
butter some small plain mo alls. iLl:±l^ at th-e 
bottom a round of either cooked tor^-e s^e tha- 
this is a good colour) or truffle, stamped >:-~ with a 
plain round cutter; then line the m-;:ii-3 neatly 
round and round with boiled rpazhztzi (* sort of 
smaller pipe macaroni), and fill these with a chicken 
quenelle mixture ; now with a spoon handle (dipped 
out of hot water), make a hollow in the centre of 
each and lay in one or more bearded oysters, 
seasoned with coralline pepper and lemon juice and 
a yery little thick bechamel, cover over with more of 
the quenelle mixture, smoothing this in a rather 
dome shape with a hot wet knife, and poach in 
boiling water till firm ; then drain them on a clean 
cloth, and dish each, either on a halved cooked 
tomato, or an artichoke bottom. Remember in 
rKn hing these entrees that their appearance is always 
improved by being stood upon something, so as to 
raise them above the level of the entree dish ; this 
foundation may be either a border of farce, a border 
of potato, or a little flattened cone of mashed potato, 
or of any vegetable puree to taste, or as above on a 
tomato or an artichoke. A wall of mashed or &\&^<& 



98 ENTRIES. 

potato either browned in the oven or left white, or a 
casserole of rice answer admirably for these ragouts. 
For the casserole of rice well wash lib. of good rice, 
add to this a quart of water, with pepper and salt to 
taste, and cover with a good slice of bacon ; when the 
rice is well burst and soft, pound it to a paste in a 
mortar, and when perfectly smooth (its beauty 
depends on this) roll it up into a ball and turn it on 
to a baking sheet covered with a sheet of buttered 
paper, and shape it into a plain round like a Char- 
lotte mould (chef 8 of course mould this rice into all 
kinds of shapes, but the above is quite enough to 
expect from the ordinary plain cook), and when 
quite smooth, brush it all over with liquefied butter, 
and set it in the oven till delicately browned ; then 
scoop out the inside, leaving the sides fin. thick, 
and smoothing the inner surface with the back of a 
spoon previously dipped in hot water. This casse- 
role can be prepared some time beforehand, and 
keeps well if stored in a dry place. Some cooks 
butter moulds and fill them with the mashed potato 
or pounded rice and bake them till nicely coloured, 
turning them out and scooping the inside away 
when cooked. This of course saves trouble. These 
cases can manifestly be made any size required. 
Besides these, first rate cooks make butter cases for 
such ragouts as are given above ; but, though I have 
known a so-called- plain cook who made these to 
perfection, they are hardly within the scope of the 
average " good plain cook." I give the recipe, how- 
ever, for anyone bent on experiment. Eoll l£oz. of 
fresh butter with your hand in finely sifted flour 



T1MBALES, VOL-AU-VENT, PATTIES, Ac. 99 

then dip it into well beaten whole egg, and roll it in 
fine bread crumbs ; repeat this egging and crumbing, 
then shape it into a cylinder, cut a round at one 
end, and at once fry in boiling fat till of a nice gold 
colour. Fry these cases very quickly, lifting them 
out, removing the round at the end, and pouring off 
the liquefied butter inside, the very moment they 
are sufficiently coloured, and fill them at once with 
any nice and very light mince or creme, which must 
be quite hot when added to the cases. The butter 
poured away from these will be found excellent for 
sauces, &c 



B 2 

3671441s 



CHAPTEE VI. 

UNCLASSED ENTREES. 

Howeveb systematically one may try to class 
entrees, there are always some that appear to escape 
one, and it is for this reason I include in this chapter 
a variety of odds and ends that I should be sorely 
puzzled to find a proper heading for. I therefore 
give them as they occur to me, and must trust 
to the index for their alphabetical classification. 

Pigeons 8ur Croutes. — Truss half as many pigeons 
as you have guests, for roasting, and tie a slitted 
slice of fat bacon over the breast of each ; toast as 
many slices of bread as you have pigeons, butter 
them generously, and spread them pretty thickly 
with a mixture of parboiled and minced poultry 
livers, mushrooms, and washed and boned anchovies, 
with, if liked, a suspicion of finely -minced shallot 
or chives. Place these toasts at the bottom of a 
double roasting tin, with the pigeons on the grid 
over them, so that as they cook the basting from the 
pigeons will fall upon them. They will take from 
twelve to fifteen minutes to cook, according to size. 
As soon as they are ready slice each pigeon in half as 
quickly as possible, divide each toast in half, lay a 
half pigeon, cut side dcrrcn, on £%.<&, and dish on a 



UXCLA9EED i* ""*..?:** 2)L 



hot dish with a gamai-af eumet THKraa Tin- 
frizzled bacon on the 3x*stfi3 ma.**- ~i#» JsminRM. or am 
as preferred. Y<jq wiZ masL twi it lim- imgnv 
rooms, two anchoviec, *^» 7 su ir hub*- i*ve* inr 
each pigeon. 

Ballotints de Volt Hit. — TLi* a u -vsr* yrtt^ vaj nf 
using the legs of a i&wL vzrisj. fe_ t*ji**l zin iu*a*& 
has been used for #sf r*3*&. J^. P.re5«2* t iur** ":«■ 
ininciiigandrxrandiii2VOTLi»*r^ :£ i*aa. wii^t nvjis 
(chicken, rabbit, or v-ssZ amd -fcaL :tf r:#>i ":a»'j:a. :c 
fresh pork, then rub lid* all lirrosx & wit* sj****: ^rs* 
a basin, and add to h 1-c/r. -c£ bsa: r x ^:•:Lz•ai. t* : :r 
three cooked chicken Irr-ers. two «r -LLr% K»:i»d 
mushrooms, and a truffle: if act ratriO . iZ brag luirlj 
finely minced. Mix this with ti*e jolts c*f tw:- raw 
eggs, a dust each of corallme pepper u&i sjuTL Lzd 
set aside till wanted. (This is e&tmzh firvt for two, 
or perhaps three legs of fowLj B.i** tie lee*, 
retaining, however, the skin ; season the inside wrrh 
a little salt and coralline pepper, and fill them up 
with the farce given above, sewing each leg up with 
a needle and thread to keep in the farce and to 
preserve the shape of the hallotinet. Now wrap each 
up in a sheet of buttered paper, screwing or tieing 
up the ends pretty tightly. Line a stewpan with 
ljoz. of butter or marrow fat, a piece of fat bacon 
rind, one onion, sliced, and stuck with a clove, a 
sliced carrot, a blade of celery, and a bunch of herbs, 
with three or four peppercorns, and lay the ballotines 
on the top of this ; cover down the pan, and fry its 
contents lightly for twelve or fifteen minutes, then 
add about a gill of good stock, and Itwaa \k^j3ft 



102 ENTRIES. 

gently, either in the oven or at the side of the stove for 
about three-quarters of an hour, keeping the legs well 
basted. Now lift them out from the, pan, remove the 
papers, brush them over with thin glaze, and set them 
in the oven for eight or ten minutes to crisp ; have 
ready a nice potato border and twice as many 
croutons of fried bread spread with ham, truffle, or 
any other savoury butter to taste, as you have ballo- 
tines ; then divile each ballotine into half lengthways, 
and dish on the potato border alternately with the 
croutons, filling up the centre with broiled mush- 
rooms, stewed cucumber, potato straws, or any 
garnish you please. If preferred, you may roll up 
the little ballotines like miniature galantines, in a 
cylindrical shape, and serve them hot with espagnole 
or any other nice sauce to taste on a puree of spinach, 
mushrooms, &c, as you please. Or, if the ballotines 
are left till cold, then sliced and masked with 
chaufroix sauce to taste, they make a very pretty 
little dish. When the ballotines are sliced in this 
way they are very economical, as two legs go a very 
long way. 

Beignet8 de foie gras. — Make a good batter with 
two heaped tablespoonfuls of dried and sifted flour, 
the yolk of one egg, a tablespoonful of oil (or loz. 
of liquefied butter), with coralline pepper and salt to 
taste, and lastly a gill of water added very gradually 
when the other ingredients are well mixed and 
perfectly smooth. Let this batter stand for two 
hours at least, and when about to use it, stir into it 
quickly the stiffly whipped whites of two eggs. Be 
careful to have the battex \k\ok feiiwx^\fe%dk<H» 



UXCLASSED JSKTKCEF. IOC 

smoothly and erenly to the object to 1* fried. 
Bring a pan of boiling fat to such a heat that it i* 
perfect! y stall and a Terr slight blu* vapour it 
beginning to rise ; dip into the batter sour neat 
pieces of foie gras (prerioufilj seasoned will Bah. 
coralline pepper, and lemon juice), and siij &lzl ae 
coated gently into the fat. turning it ov^r lightly 
with a fork, and, when perfectly crisp and of & 
delicate golden brown, drain it on kitchen v&yer n. 
front of the fire; then dish on a napkii.. Ltrntrr 
sprinkled with coralline pepper. Pieces of bw^r^- 
bread, calves' brainB, oysters, poultry livers A.*... cax 
all be used in this vav. ISicelT cooked tni* it 
deHckras if cut into neat pieces, seasoned vizl pepper. 
salt, and lemon juice, and then fried ii. bane? at 
above, and served plain or with tomato sauce . u. viuci 
case His known as beignds de prat double l TOrl'm. 

Tripe, Scotch Fashion. — Tripe is usually icoked on 
with aversion in England, though many of these BEme 
dainty people eat it with gusto at the t^ble d'hote 
when disguised as prat double a la ttntbise I a., stewed 
and serred with a rich onion sauce), a la OrlU. &c 
Stew the tripe till perfectly tender, and let it get cold- 
Make ready a good Teal forcemeat to which jvz hare 
added a little Terr finelv minced onion an! an ess. 
Now cut the thick plain part of the tripe into neat 
pieces about If in- by 3in. or 4in. long. Spread 
some of the stuffing on each (if liked add a little of 
the honeycombed part of the tripe, which does not 
roll, finely minced, to the stuffing, as it improves the 
flavour greatly), then roll these up neatly like a 
beef olive, skewer each into shape wi\.\ifcftxife^£'*st % 



104 ENTRIES. 

roll in egg and fine breadcrumbs, and fry it a 
delicate brown. Have ready some rich, well-flavoured 
brown or espagnole sauce, lay the tripe olives in this, 
and allow them to soak at the side of the stove, 
keeping hot, but never actually even simmering, for 
an hour or so, till they absorb the flavour of the 
sauce, then serve in a wall of mashed potato. 

Oras Double a la FrariQaise. — Roll up tightly a 
thin piece of dressed tripe and skewer it with a tiny 
wooden skewer about Jin. from the end of the roll, 
then cut this off in a slice £in. thick, with the skewer 
in the middle, like a little wheel Repeat this 
process till you have as many of these little wheels 
as you need, when you brush them with beaten egg, 
and then dip them into savoury breadcrumbs (freshly 
made white breadcrumbs mixed with a quarter the 
quantity of grated cheese, with pepper and salt to 
taste). Then fry a golden brown in plenty of hot 
fat, drain well, and serve garnished with fried 
parsley, with a squeeze of lemon juice, and a dust of 
coralline pepper. 

Caneton d VIndecis. — Three parts roast a fine 
young wild duck (or an ordinary duck), then cut it 
into joints, and lay it in a stewpan with salt, pepper, 
two tablespoonfuls of best olive oil, half a glassful 
of claret, and the juice of one lemon. Stir this all 
over the fire for half an hour, then serve. This is 
said to be a recipe liked by Sara Bernhardt, who, 
however, adds truffles to it, it is said. 

Mauvlette* a la Favre. — Bone the larks, put a large 
oyster into each bird, truss the latter into shape for 
roasting, skewering a slitted dica of fat bacon over 



^ssbed aamraasF i<* 



Tiiflua t. ansi jmuet &d imx cn_ i. weL- 
wmAsft amS. fLc&u TimitmMML, imEmonsn nnarmirr 
watk iflaak y mj y gL, auk. sat * intcnsel a: mrtxsr : 
cock ifibe ihirik anil "iter miHHrrwom* cn_ l niirtenec 
g tiim in 'jfe hvsl jEqt irf&SL mnuri* hiF*?- 
lies&t jnnmife off InnxexeL mas; meuMcn&L -w±i 
(Him ainffl «Th~ sm rarf a? -Sims* jmi l im*ez stat- 
puijjwiiibr •fritefl mat nrartL *Ebsx iimst -aif musiin tnm 
aa\d tte invfe ma Tin* toast, iionr & itzlu majzn- 
ShetiA ftnottsgr mb&cl -wjol *sh£ wnmnfic corner Iionnr 
over esdh lavft, said asr** *a£L Masonec -*mercre» 
is the eenate, *mf tea ysr xtiksgl. 

Jfffmm^HUm f* rwrisfTT &aDi Wk 3HKXT Jicif At TTVB 

icqaiKV omI jarejSHre & iaurat a* iaH:»v* : Fee «aca 

lark lab $«. Itesm veal j*a^. nnnaed tic™ * j^- 

drops of i ssraw <atf aattdagiT'^ j-col of frekb lirnter, a 

teatpoorfal «€ fwetkhr muafe amd sifted brftfcdcnixnJh^ 

peppjr aad salt to UKt: pogxhI h ic*^aii»ar to * 

paste, aad them rob it all through a wire aere- 3Hx 

either some mushroom* or some d»e of f <\ae gras 

with this mixture, and fill the birds back into shape 

by means of a hag and forcing pipe; tie them into 

shape with a broad tape or a piece of muslin, and 

stew them gently in half a pint of stock made with 

the bones, &c, of the larks (to which you hare 

added a gill of good strong brown stock, and a gill 

of sherry) in a covered pan for half an hour, hasting 

them now and again. Then lift them out, brush 

them oyer with liquid glaze and crisp in the oven for 

a minute or so. Place a thick slice of tonguo, hcat-cd 

in a little stock and wine, at the bottom of womo 

oiled and dried paper cases, and BfcttlivAwcY* vtol Wta^ 



106 ENTREES. 

add a little of the sauce round, but not oyer, them, 
and serve. If preferred, the same farce as was given 
for the ballotines de volaille may be used for the 
larks, or pat£ de foie gras rubbed through a sieve 
can be used. They may also be cooked after tieing 
them up in a band of buttered paper, on a buttered 
baking tin, for twelve or fifteen minutes, then 
glazed in the oven, as above, and set in the cases on 
a little bed of cooked farce, and garnished with 
sliced truffle, <fec. 

My Grandmothers Veal Collops. — " Slice a piece of 
veal down thinly, and stamp out these slices into 
rounds tbe size of a five-shilling piece ; melt a piece 
of butter the size of four eggs (sic) without allowing 
it to brown, then lay in the collops, and keep them 
well stirred with a wooden spoon, taking care to keep 
them white ; add a little pepper, salt, and very finely 
minced shallot, and thicken the sauce by stirring in 
a little flour cooked to a smooth paste in butter, Ac 
Let this simmer gently to cook the flour. It must 
not boil, however, or the veal will harden. Have 
ready fried and drained some rounds of bread, a size 
smaller than the collops, and lay these in the pan 
with the meat, &c. Toss it all together over the fire 
squeezing the juice of half a lemon over it, and serve 
very hot garnished with tiny rolls of broiled ham." 

Lapereau en Fricassee. — Cut a young rabbit up 
into neat pieces, scald them well, then drain off all 
moisture carefully. Make an ounce or so of butter 
hot in the pan and lay into it the rabbit (well dusting 
the latter with fine sifted flour) with some washed 
and dried mushrooms and a \&\iqyx&t, and let it oook, 



UXCLASSED E5TR&ES. 107 

moistening it from time to time with good stoek- 
Now paint a ring lightly on a silver dish with semi- 
liquid glaze, and on this fix a -rail of fried triangular 
croutons, then lift the rabbit joints and the mush- 
rooms into this ; strain the s&oce, add to it a liaison 
made by beating up the yolk of an agg in two or 
three spoonfuls of cream, stir it all over the fire to 
thicken it, but without letting it boil, then pour it 
over and round the rabbit, and serve very hot. 

Langue de Bosvf en Papfflote*. — Slioe down into 
moderately thick slices a good ox tongue (which 
should have been braised for ihe purpose and allowed 
to cool in its braising liquor), cut some heartshaped 
pieces of white paper, oil them lightly, and lay on 
half of this paper a thin slice of very fat par-boilei 
bacon, spread a layer of d'Uxelles mixture on this, 
then put in a slice of tongue, then more d'Uxelles, 
and lastly another slice of bacon, and twist up the 
paper neatly and tightly. Now broil these cases for 
ten minutes over a clear fire, turning them now and 
again, and as soon as the paper begins to colour and 
puff out, serve at once. D'Uxelles Mixture. — Wipe 
some nice mushrooms and dry them, after rubbing 
them well all over with lemon juice to keep them 
white, and mince them with half their bulk of 
parsley and chives, stir to them some breadcrumbs) 
not too many, or the mixture will be stodgy) grated 
and finely sifted, and put it into a pan with salt, 
pepper, a tiny grate of nutmeg, and about £oz. of 
fresh butter, moistening it with good gravy or stock 
till it will absorb no more, and use. 

Langue a Vltalienne. — Slice a tongas <&<&!&. *& 



108 ENTRIES. 

before, have ready a well-buttered fireproof dish 
sprinkled with grated cheese, lay on this a layer of 
peeled and thinly sliced tomatoes, then more cheese, 
then a layer of tongue, and repeat these layers till the 
dish is full, finishing with a layer of cheese and white 
breadcrumbs plentifully seasoned with pepper and 
salt. Put some morsels of butter over the top, and 
bake a golden brown. 

Foie de Veau a la Broche. — Wash and well dry a 
nice calf's liver, then lard it neatly and evenly with 
lardoons of French or larding bacon, and wrap it in 
a sheet of well-buttered paper ; now either roast it 
or set it on the grid of the baking tin and cook it in 
the oven for about one and a quarter hours, being 
careful to keep it well basted over the paper. When 
cooked it may be served on a bed of French beans 
with its own gravy round it. It is very often 
marinaded for a few hours before cooking in a 
marinade composed of a gill of oil seasoned with 
chopped parsley, thyme, bay leaf, onion, and pepper- 
corns. In this case a little of the marinade is added 
to the gravy. It is often, for the convenience of 
helping, sliced down rather thickly. 

Foie de Veau, Hdtelets de. — Slice the liver rather 
thickly, and then cut it into squares with an equal 
number of similar squares of rather fat bacon or 
ham, and thread these on tiny skewers, a piece of 
liver and one of bacon alternately, season them with 
salt and black pepper (freshly ground is best), dip 
them into liquid butter or oil, and then in finely 
sifted breadcrumbs, and broil them over a ckar fire. 
Serve with seasoned walercxeaa. 



UNCLASSED ESTTELES. 1«* 

Another way of cooking liver i£ to elk** it down 
rather thickly, marinading these slices at described 
for the roasted liver, then wrap thein in sheet* of 
oiled and dried paper with a little minced fat bacon, 
mushrooms, chives, parsley, &c. Fold over the 
papers tightly, and grill them gently for about half 
an hour, then serve in their papers with a sauce boat 
of poivrade sauce. 

Cervelles de Veau Frile*. — Remove all skin and 
string from the brains, and steep them for a little in 
tepid water to remove all the blood ; then blanch 
them for a little in boiling water, and leav*- them in 
cold water to set. Now put a little boiling water in 
a pan, previously rubbed with fresh-cut garlic, with 
some fat bacon cut into dice, a good bouquet, sliced 
onion and carrot, two or three cloves, and two or 
three slices of lemon, lav in the brains and let them 
cook gently for an hour. Then drain them well, cut 
them into neat pieces, laying them as done in a little 
vinegar seasoned with salt and pepper, dip them 
into some good frying batter, and fry in plenty of 
hot fat to a delicate golden brown. Drain well, dust 
with coralline pepper, and serve with fried parsley. 

Ox Palates, to Cook. — Blanch three or four ox 
palates for ten minutes in boiling salted water, then 
drain, and when cool, scrape off all the white skin, 
trim them neatly, and place them in a pan with a 
quart of stock, a good bouquet, and a couple of slices 
of smoked ham or bacon ; bring this all to the boil, 
then draw the pan to the side of the stove and let it 
simmer steadily, but gently, for three to four hours ; 
now drain the palates on a sieve, and leave till cold, 



112 ENTREES. 

and a little minced parsley and mushrooms, a similar 
mixture being generously sprinkled over the tails, 
with tiny morsels of butter, and the whole set in the 
oven till thoroughly hot and nicely coloured. 

Beef Olives, — For these cut slices of beef £in. 
thick by l^in. to 2in. wide, and from 3in. to 3 Jin. 
long ; spread each of these neatly on one side with 
a nice veal stuffing, to which you have added either 
a boned and minced anchovy, or a few drops of 
essence of anchovy, then roll it up tightly, and tie it 
into shape with a piece of thread at both ends (this 
must, of course, be removed before serving). Now 
place an ounce or so of clarified dripping in a stew- 
j an, and lay in this loz. or 2oz. each of thinly sliced 
onions, carrot, turnip, and, if at hand, mushrooms 
(the stems and peelings will do for this), and then 
the beef olives, with a due seasoning of salt, pepper, 
Ac Toss all this over a clear fire till lightly coloured 
and stiffened (this is the meaning of the French 
term revenir), then add good stock to about half the 
depth, cover with a buttered paper, and cover down 
the pan closely; let this all braise gently in the 
oven, basting the olives now and again with their 
own liquor. They will take from one and a quarter 
hours' to one and a half hours' very gentle cooking. 
When tender, lift them out carefully, and dish in a 
pile, serving rich brown espagnole or tomato sauce 
round and over them as you please. Almost any 
meat may be cooked thus, only varying the stuffing 
and sauce to taste. 

Mis de Veau a la Financiere. — Well wash, blanch, 
and rinse a couple of good sweetbreads, then place 



TJNCLASSED E5TR&E&. 113 

them between two plates and press them till perf ^cti j 
cold, when they are larded neatly, trimming the 
lardoons nicely. Wrap the sweetbreads in a well 
buttered sheet of paper, and place them in a stew- 
pan with l£oz. of butter, a blade or two of celery, a 
carrot, an onion, and a bunch of herbs ; fry this all 
lightly for fifteen minutes, then pour in a gill of 
good stock and let it all cook in the oven for an 
hour, adding more stock as that in the pan evaporates. 
When cooked, brush the breads over lightly with 
warm glaze and set them in the oven again to crisp 
the lardoons ; then dish on fried croutons, and serve 
with the following sauce round it. For this sauce, 
put into a pan two wineglassfuls of sherry, a dust of 
cayenne, three fresh and well washed mushrooms, 
and the essence from a bottle of truffles, if handy ; 
let this all boil into half, when you add to it three- 
quarters of a pint of rich Espagnole sauce and the 
strained liquor from the sweetbreads well cleared 
from fat. Let this all boil together and then use. 

Breast of Mutton a la Marseillaise. — Braise the 
whole of a breast of mutton with vegetables, &c, in 
the usual way, with a good bouquet, some cloves and 
peppercorns, and half a bottle of light French white 
wine. (The pan should properly be well rubbed first 
of all with a freshly cut clove of garlic.) Bring this 
all to the boil, then draw it to the side of the stove 
and let it simmer as slowly as possible for three 
hours till the breast is perfectly tender, and the 
sauce almost a glaze. When cooked, let it cool a 
little, then drain it well on a reversed sieve, or a 
rack, and remove all the bones, p\xttm% i\tfi \&ss&> 

I 



114 ENTREES. 

between the plates to press. When perfectly cold 
cut this meat up into neat pieces, the length and 
shape of chicken fillets, brush them over with salad 
oil and roll" them in very finely sifted crumbs, and 
set them aside till fifteen minutes before they are 
wanted, when you grill them over a very clear but 
not too fierce a fire, turning them carefully at the 
end of seven or eight minutes ; then pour over them 
a little liquid glaze (or the stock in which they were 
•cooked carefully strained, reduced, and freed from fat), 
and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, filling the 
•centre with tiny stuffed egg plants or small tomatoes 
(either of these are freed from seeds, and filled with 
n mixture of fine seasoned breadcrumbs, parsley, 
chives, mushrooms, and ham all finely minced and 
mixed with a little butter and baked — these make a 
nice little entree, or breakfast dish, by themselves), or 
indeed any nice vegetables you please, and send to 
table with some good Espagnole sauce in a boat. 

Larks a la Taverney. — Singe and empty twenty- 
four larks, removing the necks and the claws ; eight 
or ten minutes before they are wanted melt 3oz. or 
4oz. of fat bacon finely minced, in a saute*-pan ; lay in 
the larks, and toss them sharply over the fire until 
they are firm, then drain off the fat, pour a glass of 
Madeira or sherry into the pan, and allow it to 
reduce over the fire. Now lift them off, pour over 
them about a gill and a half of strong and much 
reduced Espagnole sauce, and roll them in this to 
coat them well ; have ready two or three dozen olives 
turned and cooked in readiness, and also a bread 
crousta.de (as described in the chapter on timbaUes), 



UKGLASSED ESTHERS. 115 

arrange the larks round this, fSTHng up the centre 
with the olives, pouring a Bpoonfnl or two of sauce 
round and over them, and, lastly, pnt tiny triangular 
croutons between each bird, spreading these with a 
mixture of the larks' trail mixed with a little foie 
gras, cayenne, butter, and lemon juice, and tossed 
over the fire for a few minutes. This dish can 
manifestly be varied ad infinitum. 



xl 



CHAPTER Vn. 

< 

BECHATJFFES. 

Many bints with regard to rechauffes were given in 
the first chapter, but it may be as well to risk repe- 
tition in the attempt to enforce on the British cook 
the fact that a rechauffe is not a twice-cooked dish, 
deprived of all its goodness and succulence by oyer 
cooking. It is not too much to say that there are 
few dishes nicer than the despised hash, when well 
made, and it may be added few nastier if the oppo- 
site is the case. All meat intended for reheating 
must be deprived of any string, sinew, skin, and 
especially of all over-cooked parts, and fat, if too 
predominant, must be judiciously trimmed away. 
Now, if you contemplate a hash, cut this meat into 
neat, moderately thick slices, dust these very lightly 
with a little sifted flour, and pepper (white for 
white, and freshly ground black for brown meats), 
have the sauce whatever it may be, ready prepared, 
and lay the meat in this, cover it down, and let it all 
soak together till wanted ; then allow it to heat as 
gently and slowly as possible, being careful to 
remove the meat the moment it shows the least sign 
of cooking. As a general principle hashes are far 
better if made in what our grandmothers called a 



RECHAUFFES. 117 

hash-dish, now better known as the American 
chafing-dish (not the only thing by the way origi- 
nally our own, that we hare received back under a 
new name from our thrifty cousins across the sea* 
and many thanks to them for it;. A rhafytg-difch 
should form an indispensable jjart of the table 
service in any daintily inclined household. Hashes 
may be varied almost indefinitely according to the 
meat to be served. Mention has been alreadv made 
of beef or mutton hash, and of salmi, which i* 
simply a hash of game specialized by its rather 
strongly flavoured sauce ; then there is the fricassee, 
a hash of poultry usually, cut into neat joints 
instead of being sliced (this, reckoned in England a 
dainty name for a dish, lies under much the same 
obloquy in France as does our corresponding word, 
"hash," at home, for, while we sav of anvone 
blundering that he or she " has made a hash of it," 
so the French contemptuously dub a bad cook a 
fricas8eur, and when wishing to describe an utter 
muddle, say scornfully c'est une veritable fricassee) ; 
then there is the emince, like our own hash produced 
from slices of beef or other meat, but in this case 
the meat in question is actually allowed to simmer 
steadily but gently for an hour exactly. It certainly 
is a delicious dish as anyone who tries the emince de 
bcsuf aux tomates given further on will readily 
admit, but its chief merit depends on the exact 
obedience paid to the cooking time, one hour, 
neither more nor less. Then again there is the 
gratin ; this derives its name from the fact that the 
ingredients at the bottom of ihfc ^w, %sA <s^ % -fc* 



118 ENTRIES. 

surface, are gratifies, or browned and caught by the 
heat of the dish in which they are cooked. For this 
purpose you require a fireproof china dish of nice 
appearance as it must come to the table ; the white 
Limoges fireproof china is about the nicest, but 
there are also very pretty royal blue, and rich dark 
green dishes now to be had, that are well worth 
looking at. (Of course if preferred a silver dish 
may be used, but in this case be very particular to 
stand this on a folded sheet of kitchen paper, in a 
baking tin with boiling water about one-third the 
height of the inner silver dish, all round it, or else 
the latter will infallibly be burned, if not altogether 
spoiled. This hint may be well observed by cooks 
anxious to reheat any little plat without turning it 
out of its dish, but never forget the doubled sheet of 
paper as this absorbs the moisture and prevents the 
bottom of the silver dish from catching, as it 
infallibly would do, even if its sides were protected 
by the outside water). Having chosen your dish, in 
shape and size according to what you intend to use 
it for, strew the bottom with a fairly generous layer 
of freshly made sifted white breadcrumbs, finely 
minced parsley, mushrooms, shalot, young spring 
onions or chives (according to what you have), and 
either grated fat bacon or tiny morsels of clarified 
dripping or butter, according to the gratin you are 
making ; these ingredients should properly be well 
mixed first, and then spread at the bottom of the 
dish; season with pepper and salt, then lay in 
your meat, and cover it with another layer of bread- 
crumbs, <fcc., putting on this some more tiny bits of 



RECHAUFFES. 119 

dripping or butter ; then pour over it a wineglassful 
of light French wine and the same of good clear 
stock, and bake in a quick oven from ten to fifteen 
minutes, watching it closely, and adding a very 
little more stock should it show signs of drying up 
too much. This is the general rule for preparing a 
gratin of any kind, but it is naturally subject to 
variations according to the foundation meat; for 
instance if you intend to gratiner beef or mutton, 
alternate the meat slices with sliced tomato or par- 
boiled Spanish onions ; if veal or lamb, or chicken is 
used, employ sliced cucumber, artichoke bottoms, or 
mushrooms, whilst for veal or chicken some thinly 
sliced ham or tongue will also be found an addition ; 
many people also approve of the addition of finely 
grated Parmesan cheese to the breadcrumbs and it 
undoubtedly adds a flavour; then others use red 
wine such as claret or Burgundy and brown stock 
for brown meat, leaving the white wine and the 
white stock for the more delicate meats, in short like 
most other rechauffe's the gratin may be varied to 
suit individual tastes. 

Next comes the familiar (far too familiar) mince, 
almost as great a trial as hash, yet, like it, capable 
of all sorts of dainty developments, if we will accept 
the French hachis for our English mince. (By the 
bye, how few people seem to realise that the Scotch 
" haggis " is only a form of the French " hachis.") 
To begin with, please remember that for a mince 
deserving the name, the mincer must be taboo, unless 
its knives are kept in such a delicate condition of 
cleanliness and sharpness as to eusvucfe W& Tasak 



120 ENTRIES. 

being really minced (hackee, or chopped), and not 
torn and reduced to a stringy pulp, as is all but 
invariably the case if entrusted to the ordinary 
cook's mincing machine. Choose your meat, what- 
ever it may be, and remember, if thriftily inclined, 
that the more kinds of meat used the merrier. 
Eemove all skin, sinew, gristle, and a good deal of 
the fat, and chop it up as finely as possible with a 
sharp chopping knife; add to it a fifth of the 
quantity of meat, of sausage meat, and half as much 
breadcrumbs as you have sausage meat, seasoning it 
with pepper, salt, and a little parsley. Now put' into 
a pan a nice piece of butter, according to the amount 
of meat you have, and, as soon as this melts, lay in a 
finely chopped shallot or a small onion, and let it 
brown delicately, keeping it stirred in the process. 
(Be careful your pan does not rest flat on the coals, or 
its contents will certainly catch.) Then turn into it 
the meat, &c., sprinkle it with a teaspoonful of fine 
flour, and keep it well stirred over the fire for five 
minutes, at all events (more if you have a rather large 
quantity of meat), then pour into it from half a gill 
of good stock upwards, according to quantity, and 
let it cook very gently over a slow fire for half an 
hour, when you add a tiny squeeze of lemon juice, 
and serve garnished with fried croutons, plain or 
spread with savoury butter. This may be varied by 
serving it in a wall of potato, either nicely mashed 
and browned, or served in the form of potato snow. 
Or, again, a little curry powder may be fried with 
the onion, the mince being prepared exactly as before, 
plus the curry powder, and aer*^ m * Wll of rice ; 



or tomato saiKe, fyrmtnr,, «nr nimjinvan "inrrt^ 
can aU be used as a dissus. nr x 3dht *»► 
a TItaliemMc, Le^ wis&a wal «c ^us^'iiolesi xjA-arr^ 
well mixed with ea&ai mess* *£tnai. nuninnrf r 
Gruyere and RsrsusosL ir ihesst . liavx i^rrrvr. jl: 
a little salt, abort fssi <ir a iir ul vfvuzhs* iisn 
of butter being s&ckjfefi iw*r x ul irr^ im 
arrange this on a hex. &&L Tiata* "fre mm^ TrT^^ir-t 
as above, in the cker. bt^k- x ul vrii hit^ 
macaroni, Ae^ and kc 5s in. :aie: i«*sl iir 5?ur *r i~^ 
minutes, and serve v^v iasL Ttib Ia«i i^ -ii* -rvr 
is an excellent way *£ ferrxigziA*: vtti*zrw"j& xnnr-*- 
ducible remains of any vrjuzrj, ^uiorc*. ir Tomn- -j^ 
livers of the birds t^neti aL sucisr. aim* -tr.* *£ 
broiled ham or baeoo, ami a Tirptfir^inL ;r tv- • ^lo^ 
all great additions, and hztzbuz ins in**: iiaii. TTi^ 
makes a decidedly appscaLsu?' li^uie i.ah \nz \t li**- 
veriest scraps, as I can aaaen tern fr*qri«L* t^ti«:cj-. 
experience.) A wall of savoiirr ri» iae*i jlsz&l.L :c 
the .macaroni is also 2*»i- A2.7 2i**&s slz. ce 
prepared in this war, and, if pr%fi>TT^L culy :ce jizl-I 
need be used ; but the sansae** meal is always i i^as 
improvement. Tbe merits of mince are seldom 
appreciated from the lack of variety too often seen in 
its preparation. One version always stands out in 
my memory, from the fact that a friend suddenly 
turned up to share our meal on a day when our menu 
was distinctly scanty. Cook was a good soul, how- 
ever, and rose to the occasion, and, to my amuse- 
ment, the quaintest little fricassee helped out the 
broiled steak, which was our piece de resistance {ytv 
were but two in family in those tajaV ^iVv^ Tgtw^ 



122 ENTREES. 

as palatable as it was attractive in appearance. 
When I questioned cook as to its origin, she laughed 
and told me that it was simply the meat scraped and 
cut from the remains of a joint which had already 
done duty twice, both in the dining room and the 
kitchen, and this meat she had mixed with scraps 
from the carcase of a fowl in the stock pot, a kidney 
left over from the morning's breakfast, and some tiny 
rolls of bacon. " And," she added, " I really had 
not time to mince the meat properly, so I just cut it 
into as neat shreds as I could." She had then taken 
a half cauliflower (cold) intended to serve as a gratin 
next day, had broken it up small, mixing it with the 
melted butter over from the fish, together with some 
grated cheese, salt, and pepper (both white and red), 
had arranged it round a hot dish, and stood it in the 
oven till hot, when she had poured her fricassee into 
the middle, covering it all with tomato sauce made in 
a hurry with half a bottle of French tomato pur£e, 
and a little stock from the stock pot. I was after- 
wards entreated by our guest's wife for the recipe of 
" that lovely little French dish you had the other 
night." 

Fritters, again, are an excellent way of using up 
remains of any sort, fish, flesh, or fowl, especially if 
a few scraps of vegetables are used with them. Most 
people who have stayed in Italy have learnt to 
appreciate a well made frittura. The meat should 
be as varied as possible, and should always be 
marinaded for an hour or so before use in oil, lemon 
juice, sliced onion, parsley, &c. (using a gill of best 
salad oil, the juice of one medium lemon, three or 



RECHATJFFfiS. 123 

four sprays of parsley, one medium onion sliced, a 
bay leaf, and two or three peppercorn*. This is 
sufficient for a good quantity of meat : for instance, 
a whole chicken when cut up would only need hvi\f 
the above). Scraps of chicken, pieces of cold cooked 
veal cut into pieces the size of a florin, remains of sweet- 
breads, brains, cold tongue, sliced vegetable marrow, 
cucumber, artichokes, potato, broken-up cauliflower, 
&c., can, all and any, be used in this way. and the 
greater the mixture the better the dish. Only remember 
the cook mutt know how to fry to perfection before 
attempting this friUura. Frying is not by any means 
a difficult art, granted a little care and intelligence 
The three great points in fritter-frying are, good 
batter, plenty olfriture (or frying fat;, and a clear 
even fire. If you go in for this style of cookery it is 
well worth while to invest in a proper frying kettle ; 
as this is, however, often rather an expensive item, 
it is just as serviceable to buy a pan known to iron- 
mongers as a "fish pan," which is simply a two- 
handled rather shallow fish kettle without a lid, and 
-usually sold with a wire drainer, as it is generally 
used for frying fish in. This costs but a few 
shillings even in seamless steel, and is of course 
cheaper (though naturally not so durable) if 
bought in seamed tin. (This pan, of a fairly large 
size, I have, by the way, frequently utilised as a 
baitwnarie.) Having seen that your pan is perfectly 
clean and dry, put in whatever friture you choose, 
being careful to have it when melted fully two 
inches deep, but see that there is from two and a 
half to three inches space above this to ^reve^t «&x 



124 ENTRIES. 

chance of boiling over, or any such like accident. 
With regard to the frying fat to be used opinions 
differ ; oil is, of course, the favourite friture abroad, 
but its price is somewhat prohibitive over here, 
though, like every other fat, it can be used more 
than once. It, however, does not lend itself to 
economical use in the way other fats do, as once 
burnt there is no way of re-clarifying it. Jewish cooks 
often use pure cotton seed oil, which is much cheaper 
than good olive oil, but this, unless very refined, 
has a distinctly objectionable smell when cooking, 
which renders its use in particular households 
undesirable. Next to oil undoubtedly comes beef 
dripping, a medium objected to, however, greatly by 
many so-called " high class cooks," partly through 
ignorance, partly through a dishonest fear of loss, 
as such persons appear to consider the sale of the 
household dripping a perquisite quite compatible 
with a character for honesty ! However, considering 
so great a culinary authority as M. Gouffe' considers 
it a distinctly praiseworthy frying medium, recom- 
mending the collection of all dripping from roast 
meat, and next to this the rendering down of good 
beef suet for frying purposes, it hardly becomes less 
competent authorities to reject this substance as 
" impossible," as I have before now heard it called 
by a haughty but ignorant soi-disant cordon-bleu. 
I may add a fact that may surprise a good many 
British housekeepers, and that is that the same high 
kitchen oracle utterly condemns the use of lard, as 
always carrying with it the risk (if not actually the 
inevitable certainty) oi graxavaa** in whatever is 



RECHAUFFES. 125 

cooked in it ! Butter is seldom to be recommended 
for frying as it heats up so quickly, and in con- 
sequence is liable to burn at very short notice. It 
should be remembered when oil is used that it must 
be very slowly heated, and be kept all the time 
at as low a temperature as is compatible with 
its use. 

Having settled your pan and your frying medium, 
the next thing to consider is the batter. For this 
mix the yolks of two eggs with two tablespoonf uls of 
good salad oil, and then work into this carefully and 
smoothly about 3|oz. of fine sifted flour, and half a 
saltspoonful of salt; when you have got this to a 
perfectly smooth paste add to it gradually enough 
tepid water to bring it to a smooth batter, that 
when finished will coat the spoon you use in mixing 
it sufficiently to hide the material of which the spoon 
is made whilst showing its shape. (If too thick, 
thin it carefully with a little more tepid water till 
you get it right.) This batter should be well beaten 
for ten minutes after mixing (at which time it should 
be a thick sauce), and as soon as ready should be set 
aside in a fairly warm corner, carefully covered with 
a doubled cloth, and allowed to stand at least two 
hours before use. Just as it is to be used, stir into 
the batter lightly and quickly the white of one egg 
whipped to the stiffest possible froth with a dust of 
salt. There are many forms of batter, and almost 
every household has its own special make, but the 
above will be found excellent for savoury use of all 
kinds, and the quantities given are sufficient for a 
small dish of fritters. When making idltet* ^*x\, 



126 ENTRIES. 

by having everything wanted at hand; have the? 
basin of batter, covered with a cloth, at your side, 
and arrange the objects to be dipped in it neatly on a 
plate or dish, after carefully draining off the marinade. 
Have ready the fat, which should have reached the 
point of being perfectly still, with a very thin blue 
vapour just beginning to rise (if this vapour is too 
evident the friture is too hot, and anything put into 
it will burn) ; test the fat by throwing in a small 
piece of breadcrumb, and if it frizzles up, producing 
large air bubbles, and browns in under a minute, the fat 
is ready, and the fritters should be dropped in gently 
at once, being careful to have each one thoroughly 
covered with the fat. You should always use a wire 
frying basket for this purpose, but if you do not 
possess one (which, however, every well arranged 
kitchen should do, as they are anything but costly 
utensils), lift each fritter out with a skimmer, and 
hold it over the pan for a minute or two to let the 
fat drain off ; then at once lay it on a sheet of clean 
kitchen or blotting paper, or on a clean cloth. (Some 
cooks set the fritters as done on a wire drainer and 
stand them for a moment or two in the mouth of the 
oven or on the kitchen fender.) When quite dry 
dish them on a hot dish, piling them up and dusting 
them well with minced parsley, coralline pepper, Ac., 
as you please. Remember not to crowd your pan ; 
only so many should be fried at once as the pan will 
hold comfortably ; but be sure and let the fat cool a 
little before putting in the next lot, or they will be 
burnt. Be sure to strain your fat each time after 
using it, by letting it coo\ lot \rofc\*fc est fifteen 



RECHAUFFES. 127 

minutes after all the frying is finished, and then 
pouring it through a piece of clean muslin into a 
basin, and leave it till cold. If this is attended to, 
the fat can be used repeatedly. Full directions for 
the clarifying, &c., of fat will be found in the chapter 
on Odds and Ends. 

Kromeshis are another method of re-serving meat, 
and are something between fritters and rissoles, as 
they are always cased in batter, and are often made 
with the farce mixture used for croquettes and 
rissoles. For these you can prepare any nice little 
ragout of any meat to taste, flavouring it with foie 
gras, truffles, mushrooms, oysters, &c, as you 
please. The various things to be used should be 
cut up fairly small, and then stirred over the fire for 
a few minutes in any rich sauce to taste, till mixed 
to a smooth paste, and then left till cold, when you 
should have ready thin slices of parboiled fat or 
French larding bacon, about one and a half inches 
broad by two and a half inches long; lay a tea- 
spoonful of the mixture (called in French cookery a 
salpicori) on each slice, roll them up, fixing the 
bacon with a little white of egg, then dip them with 
great care into the batter and then into the f riture, 
and finish off precisely like the fritters. Orlies are 
another form of fritter, usually only made of white 
meat or fish, this being marinaded, and then finished 
off precisely as described above for fritters and 
served with a rich tomato sauce, and a garnish of 
fried parsley. It is the sauce and the parsley that 
transforms the ordinary fritter into an orlie, but 
brown meat cannot properly be treated thus, t\\sra^ 



128 ENTREES. 

it often is, and if not absolutely correct makes a 
particularly nice dish. 

Next come papUlotes or eases, and these are a 
] very good way of using up remains of any butcher's 
meat. For these have the meat of a medium thick- 
ness, and cut two slices of fat bacon rather thinly 
for each piece of meat. Now have ready some 
heart or oblong - shaped pieces of white paper 
previously oiled and dried, and on each of these lay 
a slice of the bacon, then the meat seasoned with 
pepper and salt, and then the other slice of bacon, 
fold the paper over, twisting the edges tightly 
together, and broil for twelve to fifteen minutes over 
a clear fire. Serve in the papers and send to table a 
boat of any good sauce to taste, according to the 
meat used, with them. If liked a <T Uxelles mixture 
may be spread on the bacon before laying in the 
meat, in which case when cooked the dish will be 
known as bceuf (or any other meat) en papillotes a 
la oV Uxelles; if slices of chicken are used for this 
dish, put a slice of tongue and a slice of chicken 
between the slices of bacon, and just before twist- 
ing up the paper pour in a spoonful of rather 
thick tomato puree and finish up as before. This 
method can evidently be varied to taste. 

Closely connected with fritters, Ac., are croquettes 
and rissoles. For these prepare a farce thus : mince 
finely the remains of a cold roast fowl, add to it half 
its bulk of finely minced ham or tongue, and the 
same of mushrooms, or a minced truffle or two if 
handy; stir over the fire to a smooth paste loz. 
each of sifted flour and butter, and when this is 



RECHAUFFES 129 

perfectly blended, stir in a gill of cream (or now 
milk) or stock, or equal parts of either, with a 
finely minced spray or two of parsley, one-tbird 
of a finely grated lemon rind, a squeeze of lemon 
juice, a grain of cayenne, and pepper and salt to 
taste, and when this is all mixed add in the minced 
cbicken, Ac, and stir it all over the firo till 
thoroughly blended ; then turn it out on a dish to 



cool. When cold, shape portions of this into balls, 
cutlets, corks, or any shape you please, roll it in 
beaten egg, and then in finely sifted breadcrumbs 
and fry a golden brown in hot fat (exactly as for 
fritters). Or have ready some puff paBte rolled out 
Tery thin, and either put little balls on half of a 
sheet of this as in illustration, Fig. 13, cover down 
the remaining half of the paste, anl xV&ai^ \\, *ss&. 



ISO ENTREES. 

with a fluted cutter as in Figs. 14 and 15 and fry in 
plenty of hot fat as before. If preferred, you may 
roll out the paste as before, stamp it out in rounds 
with the fluted cutter, place a teaspoonful of the 
mince on one half of the paste, folding the other 
half over, and pinching the moistened edges well 
together and giving the little croquette a half moon 
shape j it can then be fried as it is, or dipped in 
broken-up vermicelli and fried. Drain thoroughly 
from all fat, and serve piled up with a garnish of 



Figs. 14 tnd 15. 

fried parsley. Any meat can be used for these, but 
be careful to vary the sauce and the seasonings, Ac, 
according to the meat used, Another way of 
serving cooked meat is en pannequets, as French 
cookery boots call it. For this prepare ordinary 
pancakes, being careful to have them pretty thin ; 
lay these pancakes out flat, and spread on each 
about two tablespoon sf ul of the rissole farce (having 
this a trifle mote moat ftuai tot CTdinary use), 



RECHAUFFES. 131 

and roll each pancake up. Now cut them into neat 
lengths, place them in the frying basket and fry a 
delicate golden brown. Serve well drained, with 
fried parsley. Another way of serving these pan- 
cakes is to cut each up into oblongs two inches wide 
by three inches long, spread a very thin slice of 
parboiled bacon on each (mind this is smaller than 
the pancake), spread the farce on this, roll it up, 
arrange them side by side on a buttered baking tin, 
brush them over with beaten egg, strew bread- 
crumbs over them and bake in the oven till of a 
golden brown. 

• Omelettes fourrees are another very favourite 
method of serving cooked meat. Prepare an 
omelet in the usual way, and have ready any nice 
fish, flesh, or fowl, minced and heated in any good 
and rather thick sauce to taste ; just as the omelet 
is ready to serve, slip one or more good spoonsful of 
this mince according to size, into the omelet, fold 
it over and serve. 

Scattopped Meat, again, makes a pretty and in- 
• expensive entree. For this you require some shells, 
either plate or china, though at a pinch paper cases 
oiled and dried will serve. Butter the shells 
generously, then lay in whatever meat you wish to 
use, minced fairly fine, and moistened with good 
sauce of any kind to taste to ensure its being nice 
and moist. Then sprinkle the surface with savoury 
breadcrumbs (i. e., crumbs mixed with salt, pepper, 
minced parsley, minced chives, minced mushrooms, 
or grated cheese to taste), and bake in the oven till the 
crumbs on the top are browned. A. verj ^t^V\tj ^ wms^ 

K 2 



132 ENTRIES. 

of this dish, where shells are not available, are casso- 
lettes meringuees. For these take little paper or china 
cases previously oiled and dried, and nearly fill them 
with any delicate and rather moist mince available ; 
have ready some whites of egg beaten to a stiff froth 
and seasoned with coralline pepper, minced parsley, 
grated cheese, &c., to taste, and with a bag and plain 
pipe cover each of these rockily with the egg-white 
meringue and set it in the oven till the meringue is 
crisp and of a pretty fawn colour. Needless to say, 
these admit of many variations. For instance, if 
you use a chicken mince, lay a bearded and seasoned 
oyster on the top of each case before covering with 
the meringue as before ; with minced game a piece 
of foie gras or a small truffle may be used ; or the 
case may have a layer of thick mushroom puree, the 
mince on this, and lastly the meringue. 

Turnovers, again, or patties, are very easily made if 
any scraps of pastry are available. Boll the paste 
out fairly thin and cut it into squares, place a thin 
slice of bacon on each square, and a spoonful of 
any mince on this, then fold the paste over diagonally, 
pinching the moistened edges of the paste well 
together, and bake. These can be eaten hot or cold, 
and are a very popular dish for shooting lunches, by 
the way. Some cooks mix a little cooked potato and 
onion with the mince and then call these Cornish 
pasties, though they are not, these properly re- 
quiring raw meats. Tiny patties of puff paste can 
also be used as cases for any rich savoury mince. 

Paupiettes are another pretty form of rechauffe. 
For tiiese cut rather thin aYusfca tf as^ YwL q! meat, 



RECHAUFFES. 133 

spread them with any farce to taste, from d'Uxelles 
or veal stuffing to foie gras, pinch them lightly 
together, lay them on a buttered baking-sheet, dust 
them with flour, and bake till nicely browned, and 
serve with any nice sauce to taste. These paupiettes, 
like rissoles and suchlike things, depend greatly on 
their flavourings, and if success is to be attained 
this must be carefully studied. For instance, with 
white meat use veloute or bechamel for heating the 
mince, season with grated lemon rind, mushrooms, 
a tiny dash of nutmeg, and parsley, or use veal 
stuffing ; if brown meat is used, take rather strongly 
flavoured brown or espagnole sauce, onion, boned 
and minced anchovy, and even a suspicion of 
Worcester sauce if liked. 

The above will give a general idea of the methods 
of serving up cold meat as practised by good cooks, 
who, please remember, are all but invariably the 
most economical in the long run. In England an 
idea obtains that made dishes are necessarily insipid 
and inevitably extravagant. If the preceding 
recipes are intelligently and carefully followed, the 
result will certainly not be liable to the complaint of 
tastclessness. Whether they are extravagant or not 
will depend entirely on the housekeeper and the 
cook. For instance, if to make a dish of rissoles 
you insist on opening a tin of button mushrooms, or 
buying a lb. of fresh truffles, you certainly will not 
err on the side of economy. But if you once manage 
to make a cook understand the art of saving all her 
odds and ends you will be astonished to find how far 
these scraps will go in making tasty dishes* I hara 



134 ENTRIES. 

given a specimen in the trainee an choufleur gratine*, 
and almost every good housekeeper can give similar, 
examples. One of the prettiest specimens of this 
dainty economy is the egg cutlet, for which you 
require a hard boiled egg, a slice or so of bacon left 
over from the morning's breakfast, a gill of melted 
butter from the previous night's dinner, a spoonful 
or two of cooked peas, asparagus cut up, or mush- 
rooms, according to what you have over, and a little 
cold sweetbread, brains, or even tongue, cut into 
dice. This is all stirred together over the fire till 
well blended, then left to cool, and when cold, shaped 
into cutlets in your well-floured hands, dipped in 
beaten egg, and then in sifted breadcrumbs, and 
lastly fried in boiling fat till a golden brown, and 
served with fried parsley. This dish was once pre- 
pared by Mrs. A. B. Marshall at one of her lessons, 
to show how scraps could be utilized (a subject, by 
the way, which she is very keen to impress on her 
pupils). She simply gathered up the scraps left over 
after an Entire Dinner Lesson, a perfect gallimaufry 
of odds and ends, and in about ten minutes turned 
out a dish of the daintiest little cutlets imaginable, 
fit for the most recherche lunch or breakfast. But 
if this kind of dainty housewifery is to be practised, 
it cannot be too firmly impressed on the cook that 
every scrap must be saved, and, moreover, saved 
tidily. Never stint your cook in the matter of larder 
plates ; these can be cheaply purchased at any cheap 
china warehouse, and well repay their first cost. 
Scraps of vegetables, each on a separate saucer, 
neatly freed from grease and sauce, can be com- 



RECHAUFFES. 135 

fortably used again; but if huddled all on one 
plate, piled one on the other, they look, and indeed are, 
fit for nothing but that last refuge of the bad cook, 
the pig-trough. I can assert from experience that 
honest, respectable cooks can soon be taught this 
neatness, and are very quick in learning to utilise 
scraps daintily, especially when commendation is 
freely bestowed on their successful efforts. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

BECHATJFFES (continued). 

Attelets, or Atterattx (as they are sometimes 
called) op Veal and Ham. — Cut some nice cooked 
veal and some ham into neat squares about ljin. 
square and |in. thick, and thread these on tiny 
wooden, steel, or silver skewers alternately, be- 
ginning and ending with the veal; dip these in 
beaten egg, and then into fine sifted breadcrumbs, 
and f 17 them just sufficiently to heat the meat and 
colour the crumbs. Drain and serve on a napkin 
garnished with fried parsley. This dish can evi- 
dently be made with almost any meat. Eabbit 
especially is excellent if cut into neat pieces, and 
skewered alternately with equal-sized pieces of par- 
boiled fat bacon and mushrooms, dipped in very 
stiff sauce of any kind to taste, and then into fine 
breadcrumbs rather highly flavoured with salt and 
pepper, and fried as above. Or again an oyster may 
judiciously be introduced between the slices of meat 
and bacon ; whilst cooked ox palates make a 
delicious dish thus : Out into inch squares some 
pieces of cooked ox- palates, some decidedly under- 
done roast beef, and some mushrooms ; place the 
two first in a basin, and sea&ou V)&&\elto&l *» ^od 



EECHAUFFliS; 137 

cFUxelles mixture; now thread the palates, the beei 
and the mushrooms, beginning and ending with the 
beef, dip them in a rich Villeroi sauce, and then into 
seasoned breadcrumbs (a little grated Parmesan 
cheese is a great addition if mixed with the crumbs), 
and fry as before. 

Blanquette. — This is simply a dainty hash of any 
white meat served in a blanquette, or white sauce, 
i.e., a sauce made on a bechamel foundation, 
seasoned with lemon juice and finely minced parsley. 
Naturally this dish can be varied indefinitely accord- 
ing to its adjuncts. For instance a Vancienne 
small pieces of pork (either fresh or salt) are cooked 
and served with the other meat, usually veal, with 
the addition of mushrooms ; or the meat may be 
mixed with ham or tongue, and served in a croustade 
of fried bread, with allemande sauce, though pro- 
perly this should be called a la poulette. In short, 
the variations are almost endless. 

Bobotjes. — This is a Malay dish originally, though 
it is also well known in India and in the Cape. Stir 
together over the fire one large onion finely minced 
and fried ; a tablespoonful of curry powder or 
paste, fried in the pan after the onions ; a pound 
of any cooked meat finely minced; an equal bulk 
of breadcrumb soaked in milk, stock, or water, 
and then squeezed fairly dry ; the juice of half 
a lemon ; a gill of stock ; one egg ; and pepper and 
salt to taste ; whon this has cooked for five minutes 
pour it into buttered cups, stand these in a baking 
dish surrounded by hot water, and bake for half 
an hour in a quick oven. Serve in t\ifc cvx^ ot '"& 



138 ENTREES. 

preferred turn out and send to table with a light 
curry sauce. 

Burdwan Stew. — Cut up a cold cooked chicken 
into neat joints, and dust these with fine flour, salt, 
and white pepper ; slice down a pickled walnut, one 
or two pickled capsicums, and two blanched onions, 
mix these well with a glass of sherry, two of water 
or weak stock, and a spoonful of essence of anchovy ; 
pour this all over the chicken, and let it all heat 
together gently. Lemon juice and a little white 
roux are an addition to this dish, which must be 
allowed to cook very gently till the onions are 
perfectly tender. 

Cannelons. — Mince down 2|lb. of underdone roast 
beef freed from skin, sinew, <fcc, and mix it with a 
pound of cooked and minced, or pounded ham, half the 
rind of a lemon grated, and some parsley, thyme, 
Ac., well powdered or minced ; season to taste with 
pepper, salt, and a dash of nutmeg, work in two 
eggs, and shape it into a roll (like a roly-poly 
pudding), wrap this in well oiled or buttered paper, 
and bake half an hour in a moderate oven. Now 
remove the paper, and serve on a very hot dish with 
any nice rich gravy or sauce poured over it, and if 
liked a garnish of forcemeat balls and tiny sausages. 
This dish is a capital and appetizing way of using 
up any kind of meat, white or brown, only being 
careful to vary the flavouring and the sauce, to suit 
the foundation meat. 

Cassolettes Meringuees. — Prepare some little casso- 
lettes of fried bread, about 2in. deep, and when 
crisp and of a pretty gold colour, brush the tops over 



RECHAUFFES. 139 

with warm butter, and dip them in minced parsley 
and coralline pepper ; have ready any kind of meat, 
fish, flesh, or fowl, cut into very tiny dice, and heat 
these in any suitable and rather thick sauce till hot, 
fill up the cases with the mixture, and pile them up 
rockily with stiffly whipped egg-white either plain, or 
seasoned with minced parsley, cheese, coralline 
pepper, &c., to taste, and bake in a moderate oven 
till delicately browned. In this, as in every case of 
rechauffe*, the excellence of the dish depends on the 
delicacy of the sauce, and the daintiness of the 
service. 

Cones. — Mince finely Tjlb. of veal or any white 
meat, with a good slice of ham, and pound it in the 
mortar with 2oz. of fresh butter ; now mix in four 
or five good tablespoonsful of cream (or new milk), 
or stock, white pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon 
rind to taste. Shape this mixture into neat cones 
about 3in. high, brush them over with beaten egg, and 
strew them with breadcrumbs ; fry them in plenty of 
hot fat to a delicate golden brown, drain, and serve 
very hot, either dry with a garnish of baked crumbs, 
or with any nice gravy or sauce to taste. These are 
called veal, chicken, beef, or game cones according 
to the meat used. 

Croquettes de JBceuf a la Milanaise. — Prepare 
some beef croquettes according to the recipe given 
for croquette farce in the previous chapter, only 
using brown instead of white stock, and adding a 
little finely minced onion, a drop or two of essence 
of anchovy, and a little fat bacon to the mixture. 
Roll this in egg and breadcrumbs, frv, aai<l *er«* ww 



140 ENTRIES. 

a bed of boiled macaroni, tossed in a little butter, 
and seasoned well with black pepper, and grated 
cheese. 

Curries. — The meat for curry should properly be 
freshly cooked for the purpose, but very palatable 
dishes of this kind may be made with cooked meat, 
granted a little care. For the ordinary form pre- 
pare a nice curry sauce (see sauces), and when ready 
lay in the meat cut into neat pieces, with some hard- 
boiled eggs, either sliced or quartered, and leave it 
to soak in this for as long a time as you can afford ; 
when wanted heat very gently without allowing it 
actually to cook, and serve very hot with a dish of 
boiled rice. Few people realise how easy it is to re- 
serve curry. Let the curry left over stand in its 
dish, in its own gravy, till wanted, then stir in half 
an ounce each of butter and delicately fried onion, a 
teaspoonful of curry fried in the pan in which the 
onions were cooked, and a gill or so of milk, reheat 
gently, and you will be astonished to find what a 
tempting dish it will make. Another way of 
utilising the remains of a curry is the dry curry. 
For this lift the pieces of meat out of the curry with 
just so much sauce as will stick to them ; melt half 
an ounce or so of butter (or even clarified dripping) 
in a pan, and lay in the meat, ratber wide apart so 
that the pieces do not touch, and let them evaporate 
over a very slow fire, stirring them gently with a 
delicately clean wooden spoon, till the sauce becomes 
dry and powdery, when the meat will be ready. 

Cutlets in Cases. — Prepare a farce by mixing to- 
gether half a teacupful oi nneYy grated. tao^roamht* 



RECHAUFFfiS. 141 

a large tablespoonf ul of very finely minced fat bacon, 
a chopped shalot, a little minced parsley, salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg to taste, binding the whole with 
the well beaten yolks of two eggs ; have ready some 
neat slices of underdone veal, spread each with a 
layer of the farce, and roll them up, wrapping each 
first in a slice of fat bacon, and then in a sheet of 
well oiled paper, fry them then for about eight 
minutes, and serve in the cases garnished with fried 
parsley. Be careful to twist up the paper cases 
pretty tightly. 

Another form of these cases is to have ready a 
sheet of oiled paper ; on half of this lay a slice of 
fairly fat bacon, next a layer of either d'Uxellea 
mixture, or simply fine minced shallot or onion and 
parsley, and on this a slice of any underdone meat 
(beef or mutton is excellent thus), then more 
seasoning, and lastly another slice of bacon ; twist the 
halves of the paper tightly together to prevent the 
contents escaping, and broil it, or bake it in the 
oven, till the paper puffs out and begins to brown, 
when it is served at once in the paper cases. If 
preferred a spoonful of thick tomato puree may be 
used instead of the seasoning. Needless to say the 
meat may be of any kind, but vary the seasoning 
and the name accordingly. 

Outlets, Coated. — Make a rich onion puree, by 
cooking four or five onions in an ounce or two of 
butter or clarified dripping till tender enough to 
pulp through a sieve, then stir over the fire with the 
yolk of an egg, a spoonful of fine sifted flour, pepper 
and salt to taste; allow it all pist to \}<A\ \^ \Wcv 



142 ENTRIES. 

turn it into a basin to cool. Have ready some cold 
cooked mutton cutlets, and spread each of these a 
quarter of an inch thick with the cold onion puree, 
then dip into beaten egg and breadcrumbs and fry 
quickly a golden brown. These are excellent as 
they are, but even nicer if a little tomato sauce be 
served round them. Any very thick sauce or puree 
may be used in the same way, instead of the onion 
puree, and if cutlets run short supplement them 
with equal sized and shaped pieces of cooked meat. 

Fricassee a la Yilleroi. — Slice down some cold 
cooked chicken and some tongue neatly, and lay 
these alternately in a well buttered dish sprinkled 
with salt, pepper, and finely grated Parmesan 
cheese, pour over this meat a layer of Villeroi 
sauce, and strew this with minced parsley, freshly 
grated crumbs, cheese, pepper, and salt, repeating 
these layers till the dish is full ; then strew over it 
crumbs, &c, and tiny morsels of butter, and bake. 
Another form of this fricassee is to cut a cooked 
fowl into neat joints, mask them with the thick 
Villeroi sauce and when this has set, dip in a little 
egg, and crumb and fry it. Serve with rolls of fried 
bacon and parsley. Needless to say any meat can 
be done in this way. 

Fritot de Bis de Veau. — Slice down the remains of 
a nice sweetbread and stamp them out in rounds 
with a plain cutter ; lay these rounds for an hour in 
a marinade of a tablespoonful of oil, a squeeze of 
lemon juice, and some parsley (remember that 
broken-down parsley stalks are quite as good for 
marinade as the leaves), t\iQU *Ytote& oil most of the 



RECHAUFFES. 143 

marinade, dip the pieces of sweetbread into good 
frying batter and fry a golden brown in plenty of 
hot fat. Drain, dust with coralline pepper, and 
serve alternately with slices of cooked tongue, 
heated in a little wine and stock between two plates 
in the oven. This can be served plain with fried 
parsley or with any nice vegetable garnish, or 
even mayonnaise, to taste. 

Kromeshis. — For these take small slices of fat par- 
boiled bacon and any delicate farce, as for croquettes, 
Ac., to taste; roll the latter in the bacon, dip in 
frying batter, and fry in plenty of hot fat till of a 
golden brown, then drain and serve. A very nice 
kromesky may also be made by laying a thin slice of 
cold veal or chicken on the bacon and then an oyster 
on this, rolling it all up neatly and finishing as before. 
In short, these may be varied to any extent. 

Kew Mince. — Mince together very finely lib. of 
cold meat of any kind and 6oz. of suet ; mix with 
this three or four tablespoonf uls of breadcrumbs, the 
beaten yolks of four eggs, a few drops of essence of 
anchovy, or one anchovy, washed, boned, and finely 
minced, with pepper, salt, and a glass of port wine. 
Pour it all into a well-buttered mould, and bake in a 
quick oven. Turn out and serve with any nice gravy 
or sauce to taste, round it. 

Miroton de Bceuf. — Cut an onion into thin slices 
and fry this in plenty of butter or clarified beef 
dripping till it begins to colour, then dust in a little 
"flour, add a wineglassf ul of white wine, half a pint of 
stock, pepper and salt to taste, and a tea spoonful of 
French mustard. When this ^a& aX\> *\xca&sx&. 



144 ENTRIES. 

together for a few minutes, lay in some slieei d\ 
underdone beef (or mutton if liked), cut into not.' 
even, perfectly wedge-shaped pieces, and keep tk 
whole at the side of the stove till the meat it 
thoroughly hot, but without allowing it to cook 
again. 

Miroton an gratin. — Slice down neatly sow 
underdone meat of any kind, and lay these slices on 
a buttered tin, strewing them well with finely chopped 
mushrooms, parsley, chives, onions or shallot, ud 
pour in at the side as much stock as will come favd 
with, but not cover, the meat; strew grated ud 
seasoned breadcrumbs freely over it all, and bake for 
twenty to thirty minutes till the moisture is nearly 
all evaporated. (If liked mix a little wine with the 
stock used in moistening it.) 

Miroton aux torn at es. — Cut into neat slices some 
underdone beef or mutton, as for the first miroton, 
and heat these in a buttered baking tin, with pepper 
and salt and a little sherry, then dish them neatly in 
a circle, on a hot dish ; add the liquor in the baking 
tin to half a pint or so of good tomato sauce, and let 
it just boil up, thon pour it round and oyer the 
meat, filling up the centre with baked tomatoes or 
broiled mushrooms, as comes handiest. 

Miroton aux cro Cites. — Slice down neatly some 
cold cooked pork (or any meat may be used in this 
way), heat these slices as in the preceding recipe, 
only using stock or gravy instead of wine, dish in a 
circle alternately with croutons of fried bread; 
thicken the sauce with a little roux, stir in some good 
French mustard, or a spoonful of Spring's horse- 



RECHAUFFES. 145 

Radish cream, and, as it is ready, stir in a ball of 

taaitre d'hotel butter ; add a squeeze of lemon juice 

«nd a dash of cayenne. Four over and round the 

meat, filling up the centre with sautes, or straw 

potatoes. 

Miroton a la Japonaise. — Cut some thick slices 
of underdone roast beef or mutton, and hollow out 
one side of each ; fill this hollow with the remains of 
tome oyster or shrimp sauce, or any nice mince tossed 
in a little rich gravy, or even a vegetable puree ; lay 
these slices together sandwich fashion, egg and 
crumb them, and bake in the oven in a well buttered 
tin till quite hot, basting them well with a little 
butter. Serve on a puree of any kind of vegetables. 
Miroton aux choux. — Slice down some cold beef, 
preferably cold boiled beef, and heat it by tossing it 
over the fire till hot and beginning to colour. Have 
ready some cold cooked greens of any kind, with one- 
third of their bulk of cold cooked potato ; chop them 
up together, seasoning them with salt, pepper, and a 
little finely minced onion. Add to them a little 
butter or clarified dripping, and stir it all over the 
fire till quite hot ; then dish it in a mound, with the 
fried beef round, and send to table at once. If 
preferred, pack the chopped vegetable in a buttered 
cup or jar, and bake till ready to turn out, and use 
as before. This is really a French version of 
44 bubble and squeak," the only difference being that 
they generally use the fresh bouilli from the pot 
aufeu. 

Miroton a la Chasseur. — Make a good sauce with 
an ounce or two of brown roux, and half & \>v&l <& 

L 



146 ENTRIES. 

brown stock. When this is well blended stir into 
it a glass of port wine, a teaspoonf ul of walnut or 
mushroom ketchup, and a teaspoonful of made 
mustard; have ready some wedge-shaped pieces of 
underdone brown meat (game or venison are the 
originals of this dish, but good hill or moor mutton 
makes a delicious dish), and heat these in this 
sauce; when hot, dish the meat neatly in a circle, 
pour the thickened sauce in the centre, and serve 
garnished with bunches of mixed pickle. 

Miroton a la Tartare. — Dip some neat pieces of 
underdone meat in liquefied butter, and then into 
fine breadcrumbs, and broil it gently till nicely 
browned, when you serve it with a rich tartare sauce 
in a boat. 

Miroton a la Diable. — Prepare a sauce with an 
ounce or two of roux and half a pint of strong gravy 
or stock; stir into this three red capsicums or 
chillies, pounded smooth, with a tiny pinch of saffron 
and two spoonfuls of minced pickles; simmer this 
all till nicely coloured, then lay in some neatly 
trimmed slices of underdone cold beef, previously 
dusted with cayenne, and when these are hot dish in 
a circle with the sauce in the centre and a garnish 
of fried croutons spread with cayenne butter, and 
slices of lemon. 

Miroton a la minute. — Cut the meat into rather 
long thin slices, roll it in flour, and fry a delicate 
brown in hot butter ; drain them well, and keep them 
hot. Meantime pour into the pan as much gravy or 
stock as you will require, a spoonful each of essence 
of anchovy and chilli vinegar, and two or three 



KEOHAUFPJfiS. 147 

shredded shalots; stir this altogether over the fire 
till thoroughly hot, then pour it over and round the 
meat, garnishing with fresh parsley. 

Oliveau. — Mince finely and mix well together ilb. 
kidney suet, lib. of meat, and 4oz. of breadcrumb 
soaked in gravy ; mince this all. till as fine as sausage 
meat, then bind it with two or three eggs, season to 
taste, and bake in buttered cups or little moulds ; 
turn out and serve with a rich sauce of any kind. 
(These are delicious made of game, with fat ham, and 
a rich Richelieu sauce.) 

Olives aux Huitres. — Chop together till fine lib. 
of underdone mutton fillet (the inside of the loin), 
£lb. of beef or veal kidney suet, and a pint of 
oysters scalded and bearded. Mix this all well 
together, seasoning it with white pepper, salt, 
and a little mace, bind it with in egg, roll it 
into finger length rolls, dip in liquefied butter 
and breadcrumbs and fry a golden brown. Serve 
on a napkin with fried parsley. (This is excellent 
made of the remains of a cold fowl ; the veriest 
scraps will do.) 

Potato Ragout — Parboil and mince finely an 
onion, with 2oz. of any cold cooked meat and loz. of 
ham, stir to it 3oz. mashed potato, one and a half 
teaspoonfuls of mixed herbs (parsley, chives, <fec), the 
yolks of two eggs, and seasoning to taste. When ready 
stir in lightly and quickly the whites of the eggs 
beaten to the stillest possible froth, drop this in small 
spoonfuls into boiling fat, and fry a. golden brown. 
Drain well and served piled high on a napkin. The 
great thing about this is to. have the fat a,t tha t\^b& 

x.2 



148 ENTRIES. 

heat and to drain the little ragouts well, or they will 
be hopelessly greasy. 

Poulet a la Ghvpolata. — Peel and stew some nice 
chestnuts till tender but not broken, slice down some 
cooked carrots and some small silver onions pre- 
viously blanched, having about twelve or eighteen of 
each according to your dish; cut down some cold 
cooked sausages into pieces to match ; and put all 
these into a pan with some button mushrooms, and 
enough good veloute or bechamel to heat it all well ; 
slice down the flesh of a cold cooked fowl into neat 
little fillets, lay it into the sauce with the rest, and 
heat it all together; then dish on an entree dish 
with fried croutons spread with maitre d'hotel or 
truffle butter. (This is a capital way of serving cold 
turkey.) 

Poulet aux champignons. — Lay some nicelv 
cleaned and trimmed mushrooms in a pan in which 
you have previously melted a good piece of butter, 
and before their juice begins to run out, dredge 
them lightly with a little sifted flour, moistening it 
gradually with two parts of white stock to one of 
light white wine ; season it with white pepper, salt, 
and a little nutmeg, lay in the chicken sliced down, 
or cut into neat little joints, as is most convenient, 
and let it all get hot. Serve in an entree dish 
garnished with fried croutons and tiny rolled rashers 
of broiled bacon ; or it may be served similarly 
garnished in a fried bread croustade. (Any meat 
can be served in this way, but white meat is perhaps 
the best.) 

Poulet d, Vestracjon. — Slice down neatly some 



RECHAUFFES. 149 

chicken (or any white meat), and heat it in a little 
good white stock ; adding gradually enough tarragon 
vinegar to season it, and just as you are about to 
serve it, strew over it some minced green tarragon 
leaves. Decorate with croutons spread with ham 
butter, and season with coralline pepper and a few 
drops of lemon juice. 

Poulet en Puree. — Pound till smooth ^lb. of minced 
chicken (or any white meat), then work into it the 
yolks of three raw eggs, 2oz. freshly ground (or 
pounded) almonds, and half pint single cream or new 
milk; rub down smoothly l|oz. creme de riz, in a. 
gill of milk, and stir it over the fire with three- 
quarters of a pint of strong chicken stock, until it 
boils, when you add to it the chicken, almonds, &c, 
and stir it all over the fire till thick, but without 
letting it boil. Serve piled up in a dish with a 
garnish of oysters, seasoned with lemon juice and 
cayenne, dipped in batter and fried. 

Poulet a la Cocasse. — Wipe some nice mushrooms- 
over with lemon juice till clean, then dry them in a 
clean cloth and mince them ; pull the meat from a 
cold cooked fowl into little shreds, and mix this with 
grated ham, the minced mushrooms, and some 
bearded oysters ; stir into half pint of rich veloute 
the liquor of the oysters, and the yolk of an egg 
beaten up with a spoonful of cream, and stir the 
mince into this over the fire for ten minutes, then 
serve in tiny china cases (small fried bread croustades, 
or paper cases previously oiled and dried), strewing 
over the top some delicately browned fried Vrc^ui- 
crurobs. 



150 ENTRIES. 

Povleb en fricot a VOrlie. — Prepare the flesh of 
some cold cooked chicken (rabbit, veal, or indeed any 
meat may be used in this way), as for rissoles, and 
when cold take little pieces of this farce, roll it into 
tiny cutlet shapes between your well floured hands, 
roll it in a slice of parboiled fat bacon, egg and 
breadcrumb it, or dip it in frying batter, and fry it 
a golden brown, drain well, and serve piled up cutlet 
fashion (en huiesori) in the centre of a hot dish with 
a rich tomato sauce round it. 

Tomates a la Meyniere. — Split the tomatoes at the 
side, and with a teaspoon remove the seeds and the 
pulp. Mince the latter with fine herbs (parsley, 
chives, &c.)> & suspicion of shallot, and any fine 
mincemeat at hand (such as fine sausage meat, 
minced chicken, game, ham, &c., seasoning it all 
lightly with pepper, salt, and a very little grate of 
nutmeg. Fill the tomatoes with this farce, set them 
on a buttered baking dish, sprinkling them with 
very finely sifted bread raspings, and bake till nicely 
browned in the oven. Many cooks prefer to cut off 
the stalk end of the tomato, leaving it as a kind of 
cup, filling it up as before. Aubergines, or egg 
plants, are very good cooked in this way; baked 
potatoes are also very good treated thus, baking 
them, removing the floury potato, and mixing it with 
a rather liquid mince of any delicate kind, then, 
after seasoning it rather highly, replacing the cut off 
top and returning it to the oven till as hot as 
fire will make it. Vegetable marrows, and cucum- 
bers, also are often scooped out in the same way, 
filled up witli a mince "mi*fc<i to&l \ta&\£ wra. ^&fc> 



RECHAUFFES. 151 

tied back into shape, and steamed or stewed in butter 
till cooked, then dished after removing the tape, and 
served with any nice white sauce poured over them. 
Onions again are admirable stuffed. Peel and blanch 
some good equal-sized onions for fifteen minutes^ 
then remove a little from the centre, and replace it 
with an equal quantity of good, highly-seasoned 
beef force-meat or sausage meat, binding this farce 
with an egg, or a nicely seasoned sheep's kidney 
may be used; arrange them on a buttered baking 
dish, strew a few browned breadcrumbs over them, 
and bake in a sharp oven till nicely browned. Serve 
very hot. Black game is excellent cooked thus, 
though any nice mince of cooked meat does well 
for it. 



CHAPTER IX. 

CHAUFEOIX, AND OTHER COLD DISHES. 

During the last few years,, in which the general 
culinary taste has been more and more cultivated, 
and in consequence a more delicate style of cookery 
has become popular, cold dishes have grown in 
general favour, for two reasons: I. their palatable 
nature ; II. the convenience they afford to the cook, 
who can prepare them beforehand, before the hurry 
and bustle of the actual dinner is upon her ; indeed 
it is to the (more or less) professed she-cook that 
these dainty dishes are so acceptable, for in very few 
houses has she so much assistance as to enable her 
to dispense with the time-saving chaufroix, or aspic. 
Unfortunately the cordon bleu aforesaid has not 
altogether grasped the correct nature of the cold 
dishes she serves, and consequently mixes up chau- 
froix, aspic, and even salad, in a manner more than 
disconcerting to the connoisseur, and certainly not 
intended by the inventors of these various methods 
of food preparation. As a gencr.il principle, cold 
dishes may be roughly divided into three classes, 
chavfroix, entrees en aspic, and mayonnaises. Curiously 
enough there is a certain mystery connected with each 
of the three. The origin oi Wis rosaa chau/rotx, or 



CHAUFROIX, &c. 153 

cliaudfroid, as some still spell it, is open to dis- 
cussion. Some people say it takes its name from 
chaud, hot, and froid, cold, the dish having been 
originally served hot before it made its appearance 
as a cold entree. The great objection to this, how- 
ever, is that, properly speaking, a chaufroix is by no 
means a re-serving of bits left over. On the con- 
trary (in spite of a legend that it owes its name to 
the fact that some great man was delayed by 
business till his dinner was cold, and having no time 
to have it re-heated, ate it as it stood and was so 
pleased with the result that he requested to have 
such dishes served in future as chaudf voids), the fact 
remains that for a proper chaufroix the meat used 
should be specially cooked for the purpose. It 
follows therefore that the balance of probability is 
in favour of the theory mentioned in the well known 
French gastronomic review, L'Art Culinaire, "that 
its name was derived from its inventor Angilon de 
Chaufroix, chef-entremetier des cuisines de Versailles," 
who flourished about 1774. Aspic again is like 
Jeems de la Plush, " wropped in mistry " ; some 
people advance a somewhat gruesome suggestion 
that it is derived from the foundation jelly being 
made from asps, or aspics, or small vipers; viper 
broth being still in request in many out-of-the- 
way parts, as a restorative, most nourishing for 
various kinds of invalids. Those who reject this, 
declare it owes its name to its snake-like coldness 
and slipperiness. The real fact however is that it 
derives its name most probably quite simply from 
cspic, the old French name for \a\CTtfiet ^vw. qsu&&&- 



154 ENTRIES. 

tion with which it may be mentioned that the 
common lavender of the herb garden is still called 
in many country places "espic or spike-lavender"), 
which of old was of considerably more importance 
as a pot-herb than it is in the present day. As a 
matter of fact it is mentioned by G-rimod de la 
Beyniere in the Almanack des Gourmands, in company 
with fenouil (fennel), ciboule, and ciboulettes (chives), 
espic (lavender), &c, as a flavouring herb in much 
request. Lavender has been historically known as 
popular for many generations, and is said to have 
actually derived its common English name from 
its use as a perfume in the laundry ; for of old the 
laundress or washerwoman was always spoken of as 
a lavender, from laver, to wash; whilst espic, or 
spike-lavender as it was called indifferently in the 
kitchen, was the name given to the herb used for 
flavouring. 

Mayonnaise again is, if possible, more inexplicable 
still, and is spelt in all sorts of ways by all sorts of 
authorities. Mayonnaise (said to be derived either 
from a duke of Mayenne at the time of the Fronde) ; 
Mahonnaise (from the town of Mahen), Magnon- 
naise (from an old Provencale word meaning to 
labour, or to tiro, from the fact that the proper 
mixing of the sauce and the salad herbs with which 
it was prepared was a tiresome operation ; a fact still 
remembered in the technical French term for mixing 
a salad, i.e., fatiguer la salade, whence as salads were 
usually mixed and stirred by the youngest lady 
present — generally with her hands — she was called 
la magnonnaise or tirer) •, axe soma <ft.Vfc& ^ttra&ss&& 



CHAUFROIX, Ac. 155 

of the word, which appears, however, nowadays to 
have crystallised into the phrase mayonnaise, and to 
be referred most usually to the actual sauce or 
dressing. Broadly speaking chaufroix are pieces of 
meat covered, or masked over, with an appropriate 
dance, thickened by boiling in, or reduction, till it 
has become an actual glaze. The great chefs of old 
were famous for their sauces a reduction, to produce 
which they boiled down joints and carcases to an 
essence, or fumet, as a strong glaze-like sauce is still 
called in the French cuisine. This, however, was 
necessarily a somewhat costly method of preparing 
sauces, and only suited to the households of such as 
could afford to postpone considerations of economy 
to the gratification of their palates. So as demo- 
cracy spread even into the kitchen, cooks learnt first 
to utilise stiff meat jelly (made from inferior joints 
and bones) for the foundation of their sauces, and 
thus diminished the boiling-in process needed to 
ensure the density of the preparation ; and then 
latterly, even well known chefs availed themselves of 
the stiffening properties of isinglass, and later on of 
the finest leaf gelatine. Prepared as they taught, 
sauces stiffened with either isinglass or the finest 
leaf golatine, betrayed no trace of the strengthening 
medium which they carefully dissolved in the sauce, 
and boiled down with it till the desired consistency, and 
the perfect cooking of the gelatinous matter, was * 
secured. Of itself, if of good quality, thd stiffening ' 
medium possesses no distinctive flavour, and if 
cooked to the point of dissolution and smoothly 
blended with whatever it is iniLe&.,\ew<& x& taut*. *& 



156 ENTRIES. 

its presence beyond the dainty firmness, and the 
delicate glazy surface it imparts. But this delicacy 
is the outcome of knowledge and care, and as its use 
descended to those who possessed neither that know- 
ledge nor that care, only the result, i.e., the stiffness 
of such sauces, was noted, and as to such persons 
gelatine was gelatine, and cost was a consideration, 
sufficient attention was not bestowed on the quality 
of the stiffening substance ; so when carelessly melted 
(more or less) in boiling sauce, it was discovered 
to be lumpy, and very often distressingly rough and 
gluey in flavour ; accordingly a substitute was 
sought for and discovered in the bottled aspic jelly 
offered by various enterprising firms as a garnish, 
in which the rough taste of .the gelatine was 
hidden by the flavouring. This being convenient, 
was accordingly added recklessly to any sauce that 
was to be used cold, regardless of the nature of the 
latter. As a matter of fact the strong taste of 
vinegar, flavoured or plain, which is such a marked 
characteristic of aspic jelly, is absolutely destructive 
of the delicacy of any sauce of which acidity is not a 
feature, overpowering as it does the natural savour 
of the foundation condiment. A sauce made by the 
modern " good cook's " formula of dissolving from 
one to two parts of aspic jelly in one part of sauce 
may produce a nice smooth masking-sauce, which, to 
the average diner-out, is possibly palatable enough ; 
but to the gourmet it leaves a good deal to be 
desired, and if served as a chaufroix (without the 
qualifying en aspic) is distinctly a mistake. Aspic 
jelly may be added V\\\i im^\Ha\\^ to *xv^ uuice 



CHAUFEOIX, &c 157 

which contains vinegar or acids of any kind, such 
as mayonnaise, mint, raifort, or even tomato sauce, but 
it utterly destroys the delicate flavour of supreme or 
bechamel sauce, and entirely changes the character of 
such full-bodied sauces as the Espagnole, or the 
Richelieu. Aspic chopped, or in blocks, may be used 
as a garnish to any cold dish a discretion, on con- 
dition that it is a garnish only, i.e., so served that its 
consumption is not unavoidable by those to whom 
its acidity is repugnant. As a proof of the truth of 
this assertion try the following, the first, the supreme 
en chaufroiz of the first-rate chef ; the second, the 
ordinary poulet en aspic, otherwise supreme, of the 
average " professed cook." For the first, remove the 
fillets from the breasts of one or more fowls according 
to quantity, slice these down neatly, into fairly thick 
fillets, and place them on a well buttered baking tin, 
seasoning them with white pepper, a very little salt, 
and a squeeze of lemon juice, cover with a buttered 
paper, and cook in the oven for eight or ten minutes. 
When cooked lay the fillets on a dish, reverse 
another oyer them, and lightly weight this to press 
the chicken fillets till perfectly cold. Meanwhile 
prepare a delicate white sauce by dissolving an 
ounce or more of butter, blending it to a perfectly 
smooth paste with about an ounce of fine sifted 
flour, and then moistening this with rich white 
stock, either entirely made from chicken bones, &c, 
or of these and veal stock in the proportion of one- 
third veal to two-thirds chicken stock, delicately 
flavoured with lemon juice, mushrooms, and parsley ; 
when well blended and smooth diaaol^ ycl \fca& \<sl. 



158 ENTRIES. 

of the very best leaf gelatine (I always use Mrs. 
A. B. Marshall's gelatine, as for these delicate pre- 
parations the most easily soluble and most tasteless 
kind is indispensable) for each pint of sauce ; let it all 
boil together till reduced about one-fourth, then add 
a gill of double cream for each pint of sauce, and use 
just as it is setting. Put the pan containing this sauce 
in another half full of warm (not boiling) water to 
keep it just at setting point, lift each fillet separately 
on a broad-bladed or palette knife, and pour over it 
(or " mask " it, as it is technically called) the stiffen- 
ing sauce from a spoon, being careful to. cover it all 
thickly and smoothly, and then leave it till set. The 
masking must then be repeated, only this time use 
meat jelly prepared as below instead of the sauce, to 
ensure the surface being nicely glazed. When set, 
dish the fillets neatly in a circle alternately with 
sliced tongue, f oie gras truff e, or plain truffles as you 
choose, filling up the centre with turned and farced 
olives, tiny cubes of foie gras, salad, &c., to taste, 
either with a plain or a mayonnaise salad dressing, 
and serve. If you prepare a supreme in this way 
*nd mount it on a border mould of cold chicken 
cream set in a mould lined with the chicken jelly, 
and fill up the centre with oysters bearded, and 
tossed in white mayonnaise and crisped celery, 
serving it as Supreme a VAmericaine, you will score 
a distinct success. I do not recommend this as an 
economy, for, as I have observed before, a supreme 
can never, from its nature, be. anything but an 
expensive dish (though properly managed as I have 
also previously shown, it need not be extravagant), 



OHAUPROIX; Ac. 159 

but it is most certainly, if carefully made, a 
very seductive one. For the meat jelly put into a 
delicately clean pan loz. of leaf gelatine, a pint of 
well flavoured stock (white or brown, according to 
the use you intend putting it to), a sliced onion, a 
bay leaf, a bunch of herbs, a few peppercorns and 
allspice mixed, and the white and shell of an egg, and 
bring these all very gently to the boil, whisking them 
well together till the boil is just reached, then run it 
all through a warmed jelly bag. It should be crystal 
clear, but if not, strain it through the bag again. 

Now for the second version of this dish : Prepare 
the conventional white sauce of commerce, stiffen it 
with vigorously acidulated aspic jelly in the propor- 
tion of two parts aspic to one of white sauce, and 
with this mask thickly some slices cut from a cold 
fowl, either roast, boiled, or stewed, as may be con- 
venient, and when this first coating is set, glaze with 
the plain aspic, and serve, in all probability with 
slices of tinned tongue'and canned peas, or a tinned 
macedoine. Now, I do not for one moment assert 
that if carefully prepared this roughly described 
dish may not result in a distinctly appetising little 
entree on an emergency, and if the masking sauce 
is well flavoured, the aspic not unduly acid, and 
especially if the dish be modestly styled chicken in 
aspic, and tinned garnish be eschewed, it will meet 
with much approval, but a supreme en chaufroix, or 
en aspic, however nicely prepared, it simply is not, 
and never will be ! 

For an entree en aspic, the meat used may, or may 
not, have been cooked for the purpose. Of course,- 



160 ENTRIES. 

it is daintier in the former case, but if nicely pre- 
pared, cold meat can be used up in this way most 
successfully. The great thing with all these cold 
dishes is great neatness and simplicity in the serving. 
All appearance of handling must be most scrupu- 
lously avoided A certain amount of garnish is, of 
course, almost de rigueur, but care must be taken 
not to overdo it. A safe rule for cold savourv 
entrees is to restrict the colourings religiously to 
such as may be naturally obtained. I do not say 
that they may not be judiciously helped out on 
occasions with a few drops of artificial colouring, 
but in this case impress on your cordon bleu, 
Hamlet's advice to players, " with this special 
observance, that you o'erstep not the modesty of 
nature . . . but hold, as 'twere, the mirror up 
to nature ! " A large scale of colour may be obtained 
by the judicious use of coralline pepper, shrimps or 
prawns, tomatoes, radishes, &c, for reds ; greens of 
all shades, from the soft grey-green of the olive or 
the pale sea green of the cucumber, to the almost 
black green of caviar ; the black of the truffle ; the 
yellow and white of the hardboiled egg 9 Ac; all 
these may justifiably be utilised, whilst dark or pale 
golden aspic chopped, or in cubes, adds brightness 
to any dish with which it may be in harmony. 

The recipes given in the next chapter will serve to 
show how these various addenda may be utilised, 
and an intelligent cook will very soon learn to vary 
her entrees almost indefinitely. 

Lastly come the mayonnaises. As a general 
principle the foundation of these is the mayonnaise 



CHAUFROEX, kc. 161 

sauce. For this a recipe is given in the chapter 
dedicated to sauces, but it may be varied in plenty 
of ways; for instance, the blending together of a 
gill each of rich mayonnaise, tomato puree, and just 
liquid aspic, with a spoonful of tarragon vinegar, 
produces a beautiful tomato mayonnaise, which may 
be made with tomato ketchup (in this case omit the 
subsequent vinegar), conserve de tomates, or the 
fresh vegetable, as you choose. If necessary, a 
drop or two of carmine may be permitted to bring 
up the colour, but for pity's sake do not overdo this ! 

Eemember that though every mayonnaise is more 
or less of a salad, a salad is not necessarily a 
mayonnaise. 

A mayonnaise is especially dear to the economic, 
if dainty, housewife, as by its means so many pretty 
dishes may be improvised at comparatively short 
notice out of the veriest scraps. For instance, fay 
you have on the previous day had a duck for dinner, 
which, though but little has been eaten, has been 
decidedly mangled in the carving. Cut this duck up 
into the smallest and neatest joints, mix together 
three large tablespoonfuls of rich mayonnaise with 
half a pint of just liquid aspic, stirring into this as 
you mix it two tablespoonfuls or so of minced and 
blanched olives, a good dust of coralline pepper, and, 
if at hand, a tablespoonful of stiffly whipped cream, 
mask the duck joints with this, and leave them till 
set. Have ready some quartered cabbage lettuce, 
carefully removing the outer leaves ; break up these 
outer leaves as small as possible with your fingers 
(do not use a knife on any consideration xcca. ^3&sso^ 

11 



162 ENTRIES. 

with any scrapings from the carcase of the duck, a 
few minced olives, some washed, boned, and filleted 
anchovies, and half a pint of rich mayonnaise sauce. 
Arrange a thick bed of this on a dish, pile the 
mayonnaise-covered joints on top and surround it 
all with the quartered lettuce, some quartered hard- 
boiled eggs, and, if at hand, a little finely chopped 
aspic jelly, and you will have a dish no one need be 
ashamed of. A variante of this, obtained by coating 
the duck joints with cold Bigarade sauce mixed in 
the same proportions with aspic jelly as the mayon- 
naise, may be served on a Russian salad made of all 
kinds of cold cooked vegetables, anchovies, hard- 
boiled egg, &c. Or you may make a chaufroix by 
dissolving £oz. of best leaf gelatine in, say, half a 
pint of very thick brown olive sauce, letting it boil 
in a quarter part, and then using as it is setting. 

Cold mutton, if cut into neat little wedge-shaped 
pieces and marinaded as described in the first 
chapter, then masked with Chevreuil sauce (stiffened 
with from £oz. to £oz. of leaf gelatine to the half 
pint of sauce when boiled in, and served with any 
salad convenient — preferably French bean salad, 
made by tossing some cold cooked beans in a mixture 
of oil, lemon juice, and seasoning to taste), is a very 
dainty form of " cold mutton." The plain cold 
mutton can also be turned into an attractive dish if 
coated with tomato aspic and served with, any kind 
of salad tossed in mayonnaise. Wedge-shaped 
fillets cut from cold roast beef are excellent if 
masked with Lorraine sauce, i.e., a gill each of good 
brown sauce, tomato purde or conserve, and aspic, 



CHAUTROIX, kxL iw 

with half a winegiassfiil of sharr. oil t ~*&Fy>*n^ 
ful of chili vinegar, all just hi£&z tz. \*z*r~i*z -r-nx 
a seasoning of black pepper, hlTL, £Jj£ 'zagr+z cuzzr 
then used when jnst settrng. *iii &srz*;i -vt.i 2. 
mayonnaise of oysters and crisp^I 'jzjztj 2: ; n. 
have time to prepare it, Xeapilr-ax ikii% ^i f^ir;, a* 
with cold roast beef, made tiras : zhtlz* t m** iru-x 
of horseradish verv finelr, aai *im ~ . jl 'u**: ir* ?r.: 
2oz. of glaze (or Iiehig Co/* zzr^ratz. 'A zlkut * 
small pot of currant jelly, haH & p.n^ '.t •*>! tup.. 
and half a gill of much reda^^I ^&zru\*#. *zw> 
brought to the boQ with ^ox *£ '*a± i^s^m*: ku„ 
simmered together for twenty Tz.zz.zz&t. ~jlmzl uhl:iuj*?i 
and either used, as a mask or 'j~£\ -jz. **& ljui ^b^i &» 
a sauce, as you please. 

While on the subject of jLAyc?:TitJt^ 9 ^t latr *#* 
well to remark that many a jro>>i >jA,v-d c*i ^ 
irremediably spoilt by the acid of t -^ dr~**— ;: ; 
therefore if you are going 10 x±h vi* cf \l&& cL*L~* 
run over it all a layer of aspic y^J '*-sm x'la tii.i:- 
ness of a florin and let this set tpzv: L&ri before 
arranging the mayonnaise in it. Thi£ wil] elfe<rrsal:v 
protect the dish, and is easily removed bv TrasLii^: 
the latter in boiling water. To coat the dish vou 
proceed exactly as in coating a mould, i.e., vou pour 
the jelly, when just on the point of setting, into tht 
dish and turn the latter round and round in voui 
hands till the slowly coagulating jelly is evenly 
distributed over its surface. 

Lastly there are the souffles glaces, and the coquilles, 
or cases, en mayonnaise. These are very simplv 
prepared. For the souffle, mines ia^iv \3aa \assaX, 

m 2 



164 ENTREES. 

rather coarsely and either season it with a plain oil 
and vinegar dressing, or with mayonnaise of any 
kind. Have ready a neatly papered souffle dish, and 
lay in first a layer of aspic whipped to a stiff froth, 
then a layer of the seasoned meat, then more whipped 
aspic, and proceed thus till the dish is full right to 
the top of the papered band, and leave it on ice till 
set, when you remove the paper band, and send to 
table. This can be made with any scraps of meat, 
fish, flesh, fowl, or game as you please, of course 
varying the dressings to suit. For instance for white 
meats use white mayonnaise, or Maximilian sauce (for 
this adding enough tomato puree to tartare sauce to get 
it to a delicate pale pink) ; or Irian daise sauce (a 
gill each of rich, thick mayonnaise, stiffly whipped 
cream, and aspic jelly, seasoned to taste with tarragon 
vinegar, coralline pepper, and caster sugar, with 
enough greening to bring it all to a faint green; 
then stir into it the shred meat, and about half a 
gill of separately cooked and shred young vegetables, 
such as young carrots, turnips, peas, cucumber, &c.). 
For game use Richelieu or Espagnole stiffened with 
leaf gelatine ; whilst for beef or mutton few things 
beat tomato mayonnaise or Gorgona sauce (t.e., 
tartare into which you have mixed a spoonful of 
essence of anchovies, a spoonful each of minced 
parsley and chives, and of tarragon vinegar, a washed 
and minced anchovy or two, the pulp of two raw 
tomatoes, and a gill of aspic jelly for each gill of 
tartare). 

The coquille8 or cases may be served in either 
china or silver shells or <sx&ea, or in paper cases 



CHATTFROIX, &c. 165 

you please, and consist of all sorts of tiny scraps of 
meat, such as chicken, game, cold roast meat, brown 
or white, cold cooked brains, sweetbread, ham, 
tongue, &c, according to what you have, mixed with 
capers, minced olives, young cold cooked vegetables, 
fillets of anchovy, minced truffles, &c. In short all 
and every kind of scraps, but depending for their 
success entirely on the way the said scraps are 
harmonised and mixed with the sauce, and garnished. 
A recipe or two for this kind of dish will be given 
in the next chapter. 

The only thing to remember with these pretty 
little dishes is that though distinctly economical, they 
need foresight, and in this as in every case the woman 
who cannot pay with her purse must pay with her 
person, as the French say. Whenever by any chance 
there is a surplus in the domestic budget, employ 
some of this in the judicious purchase of a few odds 
and ends, such as a bottle of good olives, another of 
anchovies in brine, or the same fish in oil, some 
stuffed olives, a pot or two of any nice paste, such as 
anchovy, cod's roe, shrimp, &c, a bottle or two of 
capers, and last but not least, some pretty moulds, 
and china or paper cases in profusion. It is a great 
stimulus to the cook who has really done her best 
with homely tools, to bring her in, say, a dozen of any 
pretty little moulds of a fancy shape ; a pastry rack 
for masking her chaufroix on ; some little knives for 
** turning" (i.e., cutting vegetables artistically), a 
potato sHcer, &c. ; such things bought singly do not 
run into much money individually, and add enor- 
mously to the comfort of the cook, and the using; of 



166 ENTREES, 

otherwise wasted scraps. Well do I remember find- 
ing one day in the larder a saucerf ul of tiny morsels 
of flaked fish flanked by some skin and the bones 
and trimmings of the fish. " Why, you have for- 
gotten to give Pussy her supper last night!" I 
observed. " Pussy's supper, ma'am, indeed no ! She 
had it all right enough ; why that's my savoury for 
to-night, ma'am ! " and sure enough, up came some 
tiny little souffles that evening evolved from scraps 
I should have thought any cook justified in emptying 
into Pussy's plate. 

If we only realised it, servants are as fond of 
fancy work as their mistresses, and if you teach your 
cook to look on these little dishes as fancy work it 
will add enormously to the daintiness of your menu, 
whilst actually reducing the weekly sums inscribed 
in those dreadful red-covered " weekly-books," which 
are such a nightmare to most housewives. Only 
don't begin encouraging this culinary embroidery on 
the score of economy, please ! Admire their beauty, 
and their niceness, and so get her into the way of 
such things, and you will gradually find her amour- 
propre is wakened to the amusement of contriving 
into what shapes she can twist remnants that other- 
wise she would have denounced you as a skin flint 
for wishing to utilise. 



OHAPTEE X. 

CHAUFBOIX AND OTHEE COLD DISHES. 

(Continued). 

Aspic bit Belle Vue. — For this decorate some 
small timbale moulds in this way: Slice down a 
hard-boiled egg one-eighth of an inch thick, and with 
a plain round cutter, about the size of a threepenny 
piece, stamp out rounds of the yolk, and cut the 
white into lozenge-shaped pieces; line the moulda 
with clear aspic jelly and just as this is setting 
place the yellow round in the centre, arranging the 
lozenge-shaped pieces round it like a daisy, or a sun- 
flower, and set this decoration with a little more 
aspic ; now pour in a layer of aspic about a quarter 
of an inch thick, then place on it a similar layer of 
sliced foie gras, or ham and chicken cream, or any 
nice potted game, &c., rubbed up with a little thick 
cream, and fill in with these two layers till the 
moulds are full ; then put them aside till set when 
they may be turned out and served either on an 
aspic jelly border, or surrounded with shred lettuce 
tossed in a rich mayonnaise. The same dish, if lined 
with meat jelly as described in the previous chapter, 
garnished with a daisy of truffle and filled with 
alternate layers of chicken cream mixed with pate de 
foie gras, and savoury jelly, may be «£ct«&. <scl ^ 



1G8 ENTHEES. 

border of salad, tossed in a French salad dressing 
and packed in a border mould lined with savoury 
jelly, as chaufroix de volatile en belle vue. En belle vue 
invariably implies a certain amount of decoration of 
the dish in question. 

Aspic d la Royale. — Toss together till well mixed, 
tiny round pieces of cold cooked chicken the size of a 
half crown, sliced truffle, rounds of tongue, mush- 
rooms, and a bottle of financisre garnish (quenelles, 
cockscombs, &c.) in sufficient white chaufroix sauce ; 
then with this mixture fill a plain timbale mould 
previously lined with clear savoury (chicken) jelly, 
covering it all with a good layer of jelly, and leave it 
till quite set, when it is turned out and served gar- 
nished with chopped aspic and a tomato salad 
dressed with a rich mayonnaise dressing. 

Aspic aux Tomates a VAmericaine. — Prepare a 
richly coloured tomato aspic, and with it line a 
border mould pretty thickly; then fill the latter 
with a mixture of shred chicken, ham, tongue, 
sweetbread, &c, as you please, covering it with a 
finishing layer of tomato aspic, and put it aside till 
set ; when it is turned out and the centre filled up 
with a mixture of celery (cut up into strips and 
thrown into water to crisp) and blanched walnuts, 
using one-third the quantity of walnuts that you 
have of celery, and moistening the whole with white 
mayonnaise. Garnish the outside of the aspic mould 
with quartered cabbage lettuce and either plover's 
eggs or quartered hard boiled eggs. (The bottled 
plover's eggs come in well for this.) 

Another version of this dish ia made by filling the 



CHAUFROIX, Ac. 169 

savoury jelly-lined mould with chicken cream (made 
as for creme de volatile), setting it with more of the 
savoury jelly (which should be rather stiff for this 
purpose, allowing los. of leaf gelatine to each pint of 
strong chicken stock), and filling in the centre with 
an oyster mayonnaise, garnishing it outside with 
bunches of seasoned watercress and sliced tomato. 
This dish is one that any intelligent cook can vary to 
any extent, as any meat can be used in this way. 

Aspic de Volatile aux Huxtres. — Blanch some good 
oysters in their own liquor till plump and frilly, 
then drain them and leave till dry ; cut the white 
meat of a cold cooked chicken into neat pieces, either 
dice or rounds, and shred and crisp two-thirds as 
much celery as you have chicken, and blanch half 
the bulk of good walnuts ; now line a plain charlotte 
mould with jelly cream (i.e., a gill of thick double 
cream carefully stirred with half a pint rather stiff 
savoury jelly; or if preferred, use a rich creamy 
bechamel sauce stiffened with |oz. of best leaf 
gelatine to the pint of bechamel), and then fill up 
with the chicken, celery, walnuts, and oyster, mixed 
with a little good mayonnaise aspic, and serve 
garnished with prawns, caviar, and chopped aspic 

Aspic a la Menagere. — This is very much the same 
as the previous recipe, only the mould is lined with 
a brown chaufroix sauce (prepared by mixing to- 
gether half a pint aspic jelly and a gill each of 
tomato and brown sauce, with a wineglassful of 
sherry, ^oz. of glaze or Liebig Co.'s extract, and 
a dust of coralline pepper), and ffll \jc\> \ta& t&&\&&. 



170 ENTRIES. 

with minced underdone beef or mutton, mixed with 
tomato mayonnaise, washed, boned, and filleted 
anchovies, minced olives or capers, &c, and serve 
garnished with any nice salad of cold cooked vege- 
tables set with aspic in little cups or dariole moulds. 

Aspic en Ghaufroix a la Juive. — Prepare a sauce 
thus : Have ready one and a half gills of thickly 
reduced veloute* sauce, and stir into this a good 
spoonful of capers, and let it cool ; then stir into it 
two spoonfuls of washed, boned, and sieved anchovies 
worked up with a little stiff savoury jelly (a little 
essence of anchovy may be used instead of the puree 
if the jelly is fairly stiff), rub it through a tammy, 
and then add to the above quantities a gill of aspic 
jelly. Have ready some moulds lined with tomato 
aspic and fill them up with cold roast mutton cut 
into dice and mixed with the above sauce ; let these 
set, then turn them out on to rounds of aspic jelly 
on which you have placed a slice of tomato seasoned 
with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, and serve gar- 
nished with chopped aspic. 

Cailles en Delice. — Bone the quails and with a 
forcing bag and plain pipe farce them with sieved 
foie gras, then tie them into shape again with a 
band of buttered paper, place a slice of slitted bacon 
over the breast of each bird, sprinkle them with a 
little cooking sherry, place them in a well buttered 
baking tin, and cook in a moderate oven for fifteen 
to twenty minutes, then set them aside to cooL 
When perfectly cold remove the paper and the 
bacon, and mask the birds with a rich white chau- 
froix sauce and g&txdah. mtix blanched and shred 



CHAUFROIX &c. 171 

pistachios (or with pignole) and truffles, with some 
chopped aspic. 

Quails can be used for chauf roix dishes in a variety 
of ways; for instance, if stuffed with a delicate 
quenelle mixture of chicken and pate de foie gras 
flavoured with truffles, they may when cold be cut into 
slices about £in thick, each of these slices being then 
masked with a delicate brown chauf roix sauce and 
finally glazed with a little of the savoury jelly 
previously mentioned. Manifestly this dish may be 
yaried almost indefinitely according to the garniture ; 
for instance : 

Escalopes de Gailles en Ghaufroiz. — For this 
prepare a farce by first mincing and then pounding 
till smooth -Jib. of any raw white meat such as 
chicken, rabbit, or veal, and 2oz. of cooked tongue, 
moistening this as you pound it with a good table- 
spoonful of thick bechamel sauce and the yolks of 
two raw eggs, working into it at the same time about 
2oz. of pdte de foie gras ; rub this all through a fine 
wire sieve, mixing in with it as you do so half a 
very finely minced shalot, season with pepper and 
salt to taste, put it into the forcing bag, and use. 
(This will be found sufficient for three quails, which 
would give about fifteen slices ; this is a less 
expensive way of serving quail than whole.) When 
cold, slice the bird as before, and mask the slices 
half with tomato chaufroix and half with white 
chaufroix. The way to do this is to press a thin 
piece of cardboard, or the blade of a small knife, 
lightly across the centre of the slice, and cover half 
of the slice with one sauce, then go onto >3b&T&iX 



172 ENTREES. 

slice ; and so have tho sauce-covered half slices quite 
set and firm before attempting to mask the other 
halves. Unless this precaution is taken the sauces 
will be certain to run, and then be messy; when 
both are set, glaze them neatly with a little clear 
savoury jelly. Now place an artichoke bottom 
previously seasoned with a few drops of salad oil 
and tarragon vinegar, some finely chopped chives, 
and salt, and pepper, at the bottom of some little 
cases, and place a quail slice on each, garnishing it 
round with very finely chopped aspic jelly and 
quartered plovers' eggs, or truffle, if the plovers' 
eggs are not attainable. This is one of Mrs. A. B. 
Marshall's recipes, and will show any intelligent cook 
how these quail dishes may be varied at pleasure. 
The quails thus stuffed can, if liked, be made into 
tiny galantines and braised, after which, when cold, 
they may be pretty thickly masked with liquid aspio 
jelly, and when this is set they are sliced down and 
served on a mayonnaise of fresh or cooked vegetables 
as is most convenient. It must be remembered that 
any kind of farce may be used for stuffing them. 
Sometimes when the birds have been stuffed and 
cooked as above, they are, when cold, halved length- 
ways with a sharp knife previously dipped in hot 
water ; a rich brown chaufroix is then used to mask 
them, and when set they are dished in oval-shaped 
paper cases partly filled with chopped aspic, and are 
sent to table with tufts of seasoned watercress round 
them. In all these recipes aspic has only been used 
as an independent garnish, but, of course, if the 
flavour is not objected, to, \\> <svai\*> mvA tath. in the 



CHA.UFROIX, Ac. 173 

masking sauce and for glazing; but in that case, 
properly speaking, the dish ceases to be a chaufroix, 
and should be called Cailles en aspic a la so and so. 

It must be remembered that almost any birds, 
such as partridges, larks, &c., can be dressed in 
these ways, pigeons being particularly good. 

Caneton en Mayonnaise. — For this the ducklings 
should properly have been roasted the previous day, 
and left to get cold uncut, this, however, is a counsel 
of perfection. Cut the cold bird up into neat joints 
and marinade these carefully for a few hours in a 
tablespoonful of olive oil, the juice of a lemon, and 
some broken up parsley stalks. Meanwhile prepare a 
rich mayonnaise sauce ; have ready some well washed 
cabbage lettuces from which you remove the outer 
leaves, putting aside the hearts ; break up the outer 
leaves as small as you can, and season them with oil, 
vinegar, black pepper, and salt, tossing them well 
together to get them thoroughly seasoned with the 
dressing; now lift them out of the mixing bowl, 
and make a layer of them on the centre of a dish, 
arrange the duck joints, which you have lightly 
drained from the marinade, neatly over this, and 
pour the mayonnaise smoothly over it all. Now 
arrange the quartered hearts of the lettuce round 
the dish alternately with plovers' eggs (if in season, 
if not, replace them with quartered hard-boiled 
eggs); washed, boned, and filleted anchovies; or, if 
preferred, remove the stones from some nice olives 
filling these either with a fillet of anchovy in oil, or 
anchovy butter. This will give an idea of how the 
Salade en Mayonnaise is served by fixst-?\&&% T^ss&s&i 



174 ENTRIES. 

cooks. It can be varied, like every other dishy to 
suit individual tastes ; for instance, if grouse or any 
other brown fleshed game bird is used, these latter 
may be arranged on a bed of mushroom salad, then 
covered with a mayonnaise, and garnished .with 
tomato and celery ; or again, chicken joints may be 
arranged on a bed of Eussian salad (i.e., of cooked 
vegetables), some dice of ham being sprinkled 
amongst it, the whole being covered with mayonnaise 
as before, and garnished round with small lettuce 
leaves, each containing a little white mayonnaise and 
a bearded and seasoned oyster ; this, by the way, is 
an American dish. 

Oiaufroix de Cailles a la Castilienne. — For this the 
birds are boned, stuffed with forced meat, and 
cooked as before; they are then either sliced or 
halved, with a hot wet knife, as you prefer, masked 
with a rich brown game sauce, stiffened with aspic* 
with which the slices or cutlets are also glazed, then 
served with a cold cherry salad mixed with a little of 
the masking sauce. Partridges, pigeons, or any 
small birds may be served in the same way. 

Chaufroix de Cotelettea a la Fermfere. — For this 
the cutlets are braised, trimmed, and, when cold, 
coated with a creamy maitre d'hotel sauce stiffened 
with strong savoury jelly, and served round a mound 
of salad. If coated with espagnole sauce similarly 
stiffened and served (round a pile of cucumber and 
tomato tossed in Suddoiso sauce), they are called 
Chaufroix de CoteleUes a la Russe, while, if coated 
with different sauces, such as tomato, veloute*, and 
espagnole, and dished alternately round a pile of any 



OHAUFROIX, &c. 175 

nice salad, they are called a la Pompadour; if 
masked with mayonnaise aspic, and served on an 
aspic border with a mac^doine of vegetables in the 
centre, they are called en Bellevue, a name also 
applied to them if larded with tongue, ham, or 
truffles, and braised, then set in aspic, from which 
they are cut out when cold, and dished with a 
jardiniere garnish. Lamb and veal can also be 
served by any of these recipes, or the cutlets may be 
braised, and, when cold, spread rather thickly with 
sieved pdtS de foie gras, then coated with any rich 
brown sauce, such as Perigueux, madere, &c., and 
served with any salad to taste. Veal cutlets may be 
braised in white stock, and, when cold, carefully 
trimmed, spread with a thin slice of ham (or, if 
preferred, with a thick layer of ham cream), and 
coated with white mayonnaise ; they are then dished 
round a pile of tomato salad tossed in mayonnaise, 
and the dish containing them is set on a larger one 
full of crushed ice, when they are known as 
a VAmericaine; this is also excellent for lamb 
cutlets. If the veal cutlets are braised, larded with 
bacon and tongue, then, when cold, set in aspic, 
from which they are cut out, and served with a salad 
garnished with a Eeform garnish, they are called 
a la St. Garat. The remains of a dish of veal 
cutlets can be made into a very pretty dish by 
masking each cutlet thickly with aspic-thickened 
tomato sauce, dishing this round a macedoine of any 
nice cooked vegetables garnished with washed and 
boned anchovy fillets, turned olives, and tiny slices 
of ham. Mutton cutlets can be done in the sama 



176 ENTRIES. 

way, but are, of course, nicer if braised for the 
purpose. 

Chaufroiz de Faisan. — Cut the remains of any cold 
roast pheasant into neat fillets and mask these with 
a good espagnole flavoured with stock from the bones 
of the bird, and stiffened with gelatine in the 
proportion of £oz. of gelatine to the half pint of 
sauce ; dish these neatly in a circle, and fill up the 
centre with any nice salad tossed in mayonnaise and 
garnished with hard boiled eggs. 

CTiaufraix de Lajpereau a VIndienne. — For this a 
cooked rabbit, or more as required, is cut up into 
neat joints, and these are then coated with a delicate 
Indienne (a white curry sauce), and served on a 
mound of cold boiled savoury rice. Babbits are 
specially useful for chaufroix, as they can be used 
for anything for which the recipe says chicken ; 
they are also especially good if the joints, when cot 
up, are marinaded for an hour or so in oil and lemon 
juice, then either glazed with savoury jelly or plain 
or tomato aspic, on a border mould of aspic jelly and 
a nice salade mayonnaise in the centre. 

Chavfroix de Mauviettes. — The birds are boned, 
stuffed, and cooked in exactly the same way as the 
quails described above, and are then masked with 
any rich brown sauce to taste, such as espagnole, 
Perigeux, &c., stiffened with isinglass or best 
gelatine ; they are then glazed, if necessary, with a 
stiff savoury (not aspic) jelly, and are served either 
on a bed of chopped aspic or in paper cases similarly 
garnished. Larks cooked as above are often simply 
glazed with pure aspic or \taftfc& vn moulds of aspic 



CHAUFROIX, &c. 177 

and served as a garnish to any kind of salad from 
which they take their name. 

CTiaufroix a la Paysanne. — For this you require a 
plain charlotte mould, which must be lined an eighth 
of an inch thick with aspic jelly, which is then 
decorated, while it is setting, with cold cooked 
vegetables cut into shapes to taste, and this then set 
with a little more jelly, the centre being filled in 
with meat, minced (not too finely), mixed with shred 
salad, hard boiled egg, chives, parsley, washed, 
boned, and filleted anchovies, stoned olives, <fec, to 
taste, the whole being stirred with, if beef is used, 
aspic-stiffened horse radish sauce; or, if mutton, 
any good brown or tomato sauce to taste, the whole 
being finished with a layer of aspic |in. thick. This 
can be turned out and served plain or with a garnish 
of halved tomatoes which have been filled with a 
mayonnaise of any nice cooked vegetable to taste, 
and left on ice till wanted. 

* Chaufroix de Perdreaux. — For this you can use the 
fed legged partridge with advantage. Eoast the - 
birds carefully, and remove the fillets in one piece ; 
pick all the meat from the rest of the carcases, and 
mince and pound the flesh thus obtained, with one 
or two truffles, and a few mushrooms ; meanwhile 
break up the carcases into rather small pieces, and 
put them into a pan with a good claret-glassful of 
light white wine, the trimmings of the truffles, the 
stems, Ac., of the mushrooms, a shalot or more 
according to the quantity, and a bay leaf, bring it to 
the boil and let it simmer gently till reduced by quite 
a quarter, strain it through a clean fc\o^<wA^A^\fc 



178 ENTRIES. 

it two ladlefuls of clarified stock ; take the half of 
this and work into it gradually over the fire the 
pounded meat, stirring it carefully together with a 
wooden spoon till it is perfectly smooth and quite 
boiling ; then tammy it and leave it till cold. The 
fillets of the birds should have been cooked in the 
usual way in the oven, pressed till cold, then masked 
with the sauce previously set aside, and stiffened 
with a little gelatine. Have ready a border mould 
of aspic jelly and arrange the fillets on this, 
alternately with slices of truffle, or cooked tongue, 
according to what you have, fill up the centre with 
the cold purde and surround the dish with very 
bright aspic. 

Chaufroix de Volaille. — This may vary from the 
cold roast fowl cut up into neat joints and masked 
with mayonnaise of various kinds, or with more or 
less rich white sauce, to the delicate supreme de 
volaille en chaufroix, where the fillets of chicken are 
specially cooked for the purpose, and the sauce is a 
delicately prepared velout£ enriched with cream, &c. f 
and stiffened with isinglass or the very best leaf 
gelatine. For instance, in c. de v. a la Marie, the 
chicken joints are served masked with white Indienne 
sauce and served with cold savoury rice and farced 
olives ; in c. de v. a la Carlton, they are masked with 
mayonnaise aspic and served with a mayonnaise of 
julienne strips of beetroot, celery, cucumber, ham, &c. f 
mixed with capers, and if liked, little heaps of caviar ; 
a la Pompadour, one-third of the joints are covered 
with tomato aspic, one-third with very golden mayon- 
mise, and one-third with, stifiaaed tauce verie and 



CHAUFROIX, &c. 179 

dished alternately with slices of ham between, and 
either peas or asparagus points tossed in mayonnaise 
in the centre. Or you can have c. de v. aux con- 
combres, when the pieces (which should properly be 
filkts cooked for the purpose or else very neatly 
sliced pieces from the breast of a cold cooked fowl) 
are masked with cold cucumber sauce, and dished 
alternately with cutlets of ham cream. For these 
mix together half a pint of stiffly whipped cream, a 
gill of just liquid aspic, and two jars of potted ham 
(Lazenby's for choice), adding a very few drops of 
carmine to make it all a delicate pink, whip this all 
well together for a few minutes, then fill some aspic- 
lined cutlet moulds with the mixture, and when set 
turn out and serve alternately with the chicken. If 
liked freshly grated ham can be used instead of the 
potted ham. It may be mentioned that any potted 
meat is excellent treated thus, and if set in dariole 
moulds affords an extremely pretty garnish for any 
kind of salad, Eussian salad especially. Poulet en 
chaufroix a la Princesse is made by masking the 
chicken slices with aspic cream, serving them on a 
border mould lined with clear aspic, and filled with 
Eussian salad tossed in mayonnaise ; filling up the 
centre of this with an oyster and celery mayonnaise. 
Another version of this dish is made by stirring 
little squares of chicken, ham, or tongue, and cucum- 
ber into a thick white chaufroix, and either setting 
this in cutlet moulds, or running it into a plain tin 
about three-quarters of an inch thick, and when set 
stamping it out with a cutlet cutter and masking it 
with clear aspic ; arranging these shades on an. *s^& 



180 ENTRIES. 

border mould, with the centre filled up with a vege- 
table mayonnaise mixture. A very pretty garnish 
for a chaufroix of chicken is to prepare the fowl as 
advised for caneton en mayonaise, and then garnish 
it with little darioles or timbale moulds lined first 
with clear aspic, garnished with rows of cold cooked 
peas or asparagus points, then set with a layer of 
aspic cream and filled up either with Eussian or 
ordinary mayonnaise salad, or if preferred, with 
alternate layers of clear aspic and ham cream, setting 
these round the pile of masked bird, with a shelled 
prawn encircling a turned olive filled with any 
savoury butter, on the top of each mould. Or if 
preferred, caviar may be used instead of the olives. 

C6telette8 a la Oonnaught. — For these braise a nice 
neck of lamb carefully, with vegetables, &c., and 
when pressed and cold, cut out the cutlets and trim 
them neatly, masking them pretty thickly with mint 
aspic (i.e., three tablespoonfuls of mint sauce stirred 
carefully into half a pint of just liquid aspic and 
used when setting) ; dish them en couronne with a 
nice mayonnaise of asparagus points, or young green 
peas in the centre. The noisettes, or boneless cutlets, 
may be masked in the same way, and served on 
artichoke bottoms delicately seasoned with a few 
drops of oil and tarragon vinegar and a seasoning of 
pepper and salt, either with or without the mayon- 
naise in the centre. 

Ejpigrammes de Mouton en Chaufroix, — Remove 

the skin, bones, gristle, and superfluous fat from a 

nice breast of mutton and flatten it out ; then spread 

it first with a delicate sausage meat farce, and then 



CHAUFROIX, Lc. 181 

.with a layer of the following farce: mix together 
some freshly made white breadcrumbs, the hard 
boiled and sieved yolks of three eggs, three or four 
anchovies, washed, boned, and lightly chopped, with 
a grate of lemon peel, salt, and pepper to taste. 
Now roll up the meat carefully so as to cover in all 
the stuffing, in a well buttered paper (clarified beef 
dripping is equally good), tying it into a roll with 
broad tape, and then broil or roast it, keeping it well 
basted over the paper. When cooked set it aside to 
cool, and when cold remove the paper, tapes, &c., 
and mask it evenly with well stiffened brown sauce, 
or aspic, and serve it with a nice mayonnaise of young 
green peas or with an Irlandaise sauce (in which 
case of course it is not epigrammes at all by the way 
but a roulade de mouton en aspic), or slice it down in 
half -inch slices, mask these as recommended for the 
roll and serve on a bed of chopped aspic with a 
tomato, cucumber, and celery salad. (N.B. The 
breast of mutton cooked thus and served hot with 
rich brown sauce poured over it, and a nice jardiniere 
garnish, makes an extremely pretty lunch dish. 
Needless to say breast of veal is equally nice in this 
way.) 

Creme de Lapereau aux Tomaies. — Pulp a pound of 
cooked tomatoes through a sieve and mix this puree 
with three tablespoonfuls of just liquid aspic ; line 
twelve cutlet moulds with this, then fill them with a 
mixture as follows : take some nice cold braised white 
meat (or failing this braise a nice rabbit, in white 
stock, with a bunch of herbs, a carrot, turnip, and a 
strip or two of celery, with seasoning to tasta!^ , &xA. 



182 ENTRIES. 

mince and pound this meat, moistening it with a 
little good bechamel (or the stock in which the 
rabbit was cooked thickened with white roux and a 
little milk), and mix this paste with half pint of 
stiffly whipped cream, and three good tablespoonf uls 
of just liquid aspic ; then cover over the moulds with 
a layer of the tomato aspic, and put them aside to 
set, when they are arranged round a block or on a 
border of aspic and served with any nice salad to 
taste. Cold game is excellent in this way, which is 
also an admirable method of utilising old birds of 
any kind. 

Filets de Lievre Glacis aux Cerises. — Prepare a 
pur£e of hare by mincing and then pounding the 
fillets of a nice roast hare, moistening them as you 
do so with two good tablespoonf uls each of Richelieu 
sauce (Espagnole sauce made from the hare bones, 
&c), and of aspic jelly. When this mixture is quite 
smooth mix it lightly with half pint of stiffly whipped 
cream, and with this fill some cutlet moulds pre- 
viously lined with Richelieu sauce stiffened with 
aspic, and leave them till set. Have ready a border 
mould of clear and rather stiff aspic jelly, turn out 
the cutlets and dish them on the border, filling up 
the centre with either a cherry or French bean salad ; 
for the cherry salad stone the fruit and take out the 
kernels ; for each pound of cherries allow a table- 
spoonful of salad oil, one of brandy, a few drops of 
tarragon vinegar, a pinch of castor sugar, and a tea- 
spoonful of picked tarragon and chervil, and stand it 
all on ice till wanted. This salad can be made with 
fresh or with dried (uiLCxysfcaX&aftS^ <&ssrctaa % If 



CHAUFROIX, &c. 183 

liked, a spoonful or so of the same sauce as was used 
to mask the hare cutlets may be stirred in with the 
cherries. 

Foie Ghras en Aspic. — This is a very easy entree to 
prepare granted the presence of some aspic jelly. 
Line some pretty little moulds with aspic, then place 
in each a cube of foie gras truffe*, and fill up with 
aspic, leaving it till set when it is turned out and 
served on chopped aspic, or en mayonnaise with a 
salad. If preferred the moulds may be lined and 
filled up with aspic cream. 

Petit es Caisses a la Whitstable, or aux Marennes. — 
Have ready some nice crisp patty cases, and place in 
each a spoonful of white mayonnaise, then some cold 
cooked sweetbread cut into dice, and a bearded and 
seasoned oyster or two, a little more mayonnaise, and 
pile over it all some crisped celery cut into Julienne 
strips. Chicken, cold veal, game, &c 9 can all be 
utilised in this way with advantage. 

Petites Coquilles de Volaille en Mayonnaise. — 
Have -some silver or china shells for this dish (or 
failing these use little paper cases, but then say 
caisses instead of coquilles), and place a spoonful of 
good mayonnaise in each ; fill up the shells with any 
remains of cold fowl or game cut up into little dice, 
with ham or tongue cut to match, quartered slices 
of hardboiled egg f and some stoned and chopped 
olives (if at hand toss some nice chicken livers in 
butter, with a seasoning of pepper and salt, for ten 
minutes or so, let them get cold, slice them and mix 
them with ti\e chicken, &c.) ; now mask it all 
smoothly over with mayonnaise sauce, lay two fiUeta 



184 ENTRIES. ; 

of washed anchovy crossways over each shell, with 
three capers in each of the quarters thus made, fix 
an olive stuffed with anchovy butter on the top of 
each and serve. 

Bis de Veau en Chaufroix. — Prepare a nice sweet- 
bread in the usual way, and, when cold and pressed, 
slice it down neatly, or cut it in rounds with a cutter 
a quarter of an inch thick, mask it with white chau- 
froix, lay a round slice of truffle on each and glaze it 
over with either savoury or aspic jelly as you please, 
set these slices on a border of aspic, filling up the 
centre with a mayonnaise salad. 

Bis de Veau a la Chinoise. — Slice down the 
remains of a larded sweetbread and place a slice in 
an aspic lined cutlet or sandwich mould, lay a round 
of hard boiled egg } and some beetroot cut into 
julienne strips on each ; set this all with a little 
more aspic, and, when set, dish on a bed of chopped 
aspic with a garnish of cold rice. 

Bis de Veau au Beurre Montpellier. — Round slices 
of cold cooked sweetbread, set in aspic jelly, then 
arranged in a circle with a tiny pat of Montpellier 
butter on each, and a mayonnaise of asparagus 
points or young green peas, as you please. 

Salmi de Perdreaux en Chaufroix. — For this cook 
the partridges on purpose, and cut the birds up 
neatly in fillets and little joints, masking each 
of these carefully with salmi sauce reduced and 
stiffened with leaf gelatine, and, when set, dish 
them en couronne on a bed of chopped aspic with 
sliced truffles tossed in mayonnaise. If liked, some 
nice cold potatoes sliced may be mixed with the 



CHATJFKOIX, &c. 185 

truffles, when the dish becomes chaufroix de per- 
dreaux a la Demidoff. 

Tomates a VAlgerienne. — For these, properly 
speaking, you require tomato moulds, but, really, 
any pretty little shapes will do. Line whichever 
mould you choose with well-coloured tomato aspic, 
and fill with the following mince : Pound and rub 
through a wire sieve the breast of a cold cooked fowl 
(or an equivalent amount picked from the rest of the 
carcase); mix into this two tablespoonfuls each of 
veloute* sauce and liquid aspic, stirring in lightly and 
quickly half a pint of stiffly whipped cream. When 
the tomato moulds are full press them closely 
together, and set them on ice for at least twenty 
minutes ; they are then turned out and served on a 
border of aspic jelly with a good lettuce mayonnaise 
in the centre. 

Another dish of tongue and chicken may be made 
in much the same way ; slice down a nice red tongue, 
and cut these slices into cutlet shapes ; have ready a 
puree of fowl prepared as for the tomato, only 
substituting four tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise aspic 
for the veloute and plain aspic jelly; add to this 
farce the remains of the cut up tongue, and, if at 
handy either some sliced truffle or dice of pate* de foie 
gras, setting this in little cutlet moulds ; mask both 
the tongue and the chicken cutlets with very clear 
aspic jelly, and dish them alternately round a pile of 
any nice mayonnaise. This is called in France 
Tranches de langue a Vicariate. Any intelligent cook 
will find it easy to use up almost any scraps of meat, 
poultry, or game on the lines of th© afoorcfe ?«&£*&« 



186 ENTRIES. 

Timhdles a la Pompadour. — Take as many little 
timbale moulds as you require, lining a third of their 
number with cream aspic, another third with tomato 
aspic, and the last third with cucumber cream, and 
fill up the little moulds with shredded chicken, 
minced lobster, prawns or shrimps, some cold cooked 
mushrooms and artichoke bottoms cut into dice ; add 
a small spoonful of rich white veloute, and coyer over 
with stiff aspic or some of the lining sauce, as you 
choose ; put them on ice till set, then serve garnished 
with chopped aspic, alternating the colours. 

Turban de Foie Gras a la d'Uxelle*. — Prepare a 
d'TTxelles mixture thus : Into a delicately clean pan 
put £lb. of well washed and minced fresh mushrooms 
with an ounce of butter, salt and pepper, ateaspoon- 
ful of freshly minced parsley, and the same of 
minced chives, or one very finely chopped shalot. 
Let it cook at the side of the stove for about ten 
minutes, then add to it half a wineglassful of sherry, 
half a pint of good espagnole sauce, and rather better 
than £oz. of leaf gelatine ; let this just boil up, then 
set it aside to cool. Prepare a good savoury jelly 
by dissolving f oz. of best leaf gelatine in half a pint 
of well clarified consomme*, and, when this is setting, 
line some cutlet moulds with it ; then put in a layer 
of the d'Uxelles mixture, which should be just on the 
point of setting, and on this place a nice piece cf 
pate* de foie gras ; cover it well over with more 
d'Uxelles, and lastly glaze with a little savoury jelly, 
and put these aside to set. Turn the rest of your 
savoury jelly into a border mould to the depth of Jin. 
or Jin., and, when this iaBet,tvsni\l wit ©aid mount the 



CHAUFROIX, &c. 187 

d'Uxelles cutlets (neatly trimmed) on this, and fill 
up the centre with a delicate walnut and celery 
mayonnaise, This dish may be garnished in various 
ways, as with a truffle and new potato salad, a 
Boyale or a Montglas garnish tossed in cream 
chaufroix, Ac., with plovers' eggs, whole truffles 
cooked in champagne, crayfish or prawns, <fec., as 
you please* Needless to say, this does not imply 
that all these ingredients should be used in the same 
dish, but simply as variations. It can never be too 
strongly impressed on the British cook that too 
many flavours and an extravagant use of expensive 
material are simply vulgarity and utterly destructive 
of culinary perfection. 

The appearance of chaufroix dishes is, of course, 
a capital feature in their preparation, and must 
accordingly be carefully studied ; at the same time, 
all over colouring and over decoration must be 
scrupulously avoided. Set dishes, involving waxen 
cupids and uneatable combinations of all kinds, are 
utterly out of keeping for first-class private cookery, 
and are tours deforce that should be strictly reserved 
for culinary exhibitions and such like. Moreover, it 
is well to be able to decide whether a dish is a sweet 
or a savoury at the first glance if possible. I admit 
it is not easy when a Neapolitan ice is just as likely to 
be savoury as sweet, and such a curious combination 
as an " iced devil " is possible. Of course, one has 
Dante's authority for considering a frozen region 
part of the Inferno; still, in matters culinary, it 
sounds a contradiction in terms. One garnish 
may be mentioned which often adds to the tug^eax- 



188 ENTRIES. 

ance and condition . of a chaufroix, and this is the 
ice border. This is easy enough to prepare by any 
one possessing an ice cave, as it is simply a question 
of filling a border mould with plain water and setting 
it in the charged cave till frozen. Another excellent 
adjunct for chaufroix is the ice tray, but this 
requires a special doable mould, though otherwise it 
presents no difficulty, and is well worth its cost in a 
kitchen where chaufroix and ices are much studied. 



CHAPTEE XI. 

SAUCES. 

The question of sauces is always a puzzle, both to 
the average cook and to her mistress, and it cannot 
unfortunately be asserted that either can answer it 
satisfactorily. Even plain melted butter, simple as 
it really is, appears to present enormous difficulties, 
judging by the results only too frequently seen in 
the national sauce boats. Yet without sauces, and 
well-made ones at that, few, if any, entrees are 
possible. 

The secret of this failure is in almost all cases the 
insufficient cooking of the flour and butter founda- 
tions. Unless the flour is thoroughly cooked every- 
sauce built upon this foundation will have a raw, 
harsh flavour, which nothing, will eradicate entirely. 
Hour takes from ten to twelve minutes steady 
cooking, at least, to remove this ; but as the average 
cook seldom, if ever, thinks of preparing her sauces 
till a few minutes before they are sent to table, it 
follows naturally that her sauces are all but in- 
variably raw, and consequently seldom, if ever, 
smooth. The cook might save herself untold trouble 
and much waste of time, temper, and material, if she 
would keep at hand (as all good French ccoks do\ 



1« 

heat and to drain tht 
be hopelessly greasy. \ 

JPoulet a la Chipo> 
chestnuts till tender q 
cooked carrot* and 
viously blanchi ■■! . hai 
each according to yt 
cooked sausages into 
these into a pan with 
enough good Teloutc 
slice down the flesh o 
little fillets, lay it int 
heat it all together; 
with fried croutons 
truffle butter. (This 
turkey.) 

Poulet awe ckam} 
cleaned and trimmed I 
you hare previously i 
and before their juie- 
them lightly with a. lit' 
gradually with two pt 
light white wine ; seas 
and a little nutmeg, la 
or cut into neat little 
and let it all get h 
garnished with fried o 
of broiled bacon ; or 
garnished in a fried 
can be served in this ' 
the best.) 

Poulel A Festrago* 




SAUCES. 191 

heaped tip tablespoonful will, roughly speaking, 
represent about 2oz.), and dilute it gradually over 
the fire with the stock or liquid you may choose, 
stirring it well till it boils, to get it perfectly smooth ; 
as soon as it boils up it should be tammied or sieved, 
and receive any additions required by the recipe. 

Naturally sauce prepared in this way can be made 
much quicker than by the ordinary method, and is 
the secret of the large variety of sauces used by a 
foreign chef, who would not dream of repeating the 
same sauce twice, in any menu, however long. 
Rather a different plan from that pursued by the 
ordinary good plain cook to whom brown sauce is 
brown sauce, and nothing more ; and as such to be 
used indiscriminately from one end of her dinner to 
the other. This is really no exaggeration. I once 
myself beheld a highly- trained and so-called " pro- 
fessed cook " start her preparations for a dinner by 
compounding a large basinful each of white and 
brown sauce, i.e., the traditional " bit of butter rolled 
in flour," just boiled up with milk in one case, and 
stock in the other, and plentifully seasoned for the 
one with mace and nutmeg, and for the other with a 
combination of most of the contents of the cruet 
stand. The white sauce began duty with the fish, 
and went on to the pudding, when it was flavoured 
up as an accompaniment of the sweet ; whilst the 
brown sauce started with the first entree, and 
literally ended with the savoury ! In another case, 
and equally with an " experienced " cook, I once 
tasted the hare soup, which was the first dish in the 
menu, straight through to the savoury omelet. Stock 



190 ENTRIES. 

a couple of jars containing white and brown rottx 
respectively. Roux is practically the French synonym 
for thickening, and being used in the first instance 
for the stronger-flavoured brown sauces, was always 
of a chestnut brown, or roux colour. When, how- 
ever, economy in labour and material suggested the 
advisability of replacing in white sauces the costly 
process of reduction by a thickening differing only 
in colour from that used for the darker, fuller 
flavoured condiments, a roux blanc was invented ; a 
contradiction in terms doubtless, but an intelligible 
one all the same. Both are very easily prepared, 
and, as said before, add greatly both to the cook's 
success and to the saving of labour. To begin with 
a roux brun — put into a pan from 4oz. to 6oz. of 
butter, and melt this very gently over a clear, slow 
fire, stirring into it as it melts an equal quantity of 
fine, sifted flour, and allow it to cook gently over the 
fire till it assumes a soft, even, fawn colour ; the 
slower it is cooked the better it will be, as if in the 
least hurried it will most likely burn, or, at any rate, 
catch, and will develope a spotty colour, and an acrid, 
harsh flavour, which no subsequent dosing with 
wine, cruet sauces, &c, will ever entirely overcome. 
When it has reached the required colouring, which 
will probably take fully half an hour, if not more, 
a slight seasoning of salt should be added to it (do 
not overdo this, as it is only used as a preservative, 
the actual seasoning of the sauce being added later). 
This paste will keep in a cool place for several days, 
and may be used as required thus — take out with a 
spoon the amount you neefli (ramen^Wing that a 



SAUCES. 191 

heaped up tablespoonful will, roughly speaking, 
represent about 2oz.), and dilute it gradually oyer 
the fire with the stock or liquid you may choose, 
stirring it well till it boils, to get it perfectly smooth ; 
as soon as it boils up it should be tammied or sieved, 
and receive any additions required by the recipe. 

Naturally sauce prepared in this way can be made 
much quicker than by the ordinary method, and is 
the secret of the large variety of sauces used by a 
foreign chef, who would not dream of repeating the 
same sauce twice, in any menu, however long. 
Rather a different plan from that pursued by the 
ordinary good plain cook to whom brown sauce is 
brown sauce, and nothing more ; and as such to be 
used mdiseriminately from one end of her dinner to 
the other. This is really no exaggeration. I once 
myself beheld a highly-trained and so-called " pro- 
fessed cook" start her preparations for a dinner by 
compounding a large basinful each of white and 
brown sauce, i.e., the traditional " bit of butter rolled 
in flour," just boiled up with milk in one case, and 
stock in the other, and plentifully seasoned for the 
one with mace and nutmeg, and for the other with a 
combination of most of the contents of the cruet 
stand. The white sauce began duty with the fish, 
and went on to the pudding, when it was flavoured 
up as an accompaniment of the sweet; whilst the 
brown sauce started with the first entree, and 
literally ended with the savoury ! In another case, 
and equally with an " experienced " cook, I once 
tasted the hare soup, which was the first dish in the 
menu, straight through to the savoury omelet. Stock 



192 , ENTREES. 

is stock, and so the contents of the soup pot had 
been economically utilised straight through from 
first to last. Now this economy, though perhaps 
praiseworthy (?) is in ordinary cases distinctly to be 
deprecated. 

Good cookery acknowledges practically four founda- 
tion sauces, or sauces meres as they are called in France. 
Veloute* and bechamel for the white, and brown and 
espagnole for the brown sauces. These four are the 
foundations of nearly all sauces, saving the butter 
sauces, which are a class apart. 

To begin with the white sauces. Veloute, or velvet 
sauce, as it may be Englished, is made by dissolving 
together loz. each of butter and fine sifted flour, 
diluting these when perfectly cooked and blended, 
with half a pint or so of colourless stock made from 
bones, &c, ; this is then tammied through a woollen 
cloth, or pressed through a hair sieve, to ensure its 
perfect smoothness, and seasoned with salt and 
pepper to taste. In this condition it serves as a 
foundation for many sauces, but if it be used by 
itself, it is generally finished off by the addition of 
one or two tiny morsels of butter, stirred into it 
whilst boiling hot just as you lift it from the fire ; 
or by a spoonful or two of cream, or a spoonful or so 
of new milk beaten up with the yolk of an egg (and 
in this case it is often spoken of and used as 
allemande, though really this sauce needs a strong 
flavouring of mushrooms besides the egg and milk 
mixture called by cooks a liaison). In plain English, 
foundation veloute is neither more nor less than 
melted l»uttcr made witli co\o\nV&* « 4 tO& ot" any 



SAUCES. 193 

kind. Bechamel on the contrary requires the addition 
of milk, the butter and flour being prepared as 
before, and diluted with half colourless stock, half 
new milk, its excellence when served alone depend- 
ing on the careful flavouring of the liquids with 
which it is diluted, and the use of more or less rich 
stock and the substitution of cream for milk. Need- 
less to observe that where the cook keeps fas she 
should do) roux at hand, a couple of spoonfuls of 
this, according to the thickness, is diluted with the 
liquid, in any case allowing the whole to boil-in 
rapidly till reduced a fourth part, a reduction on 
which, be it added, the success of the sauce greatly 
depends. 

Brown sauce is simply veloute* made with a flour 
and butter roux, which has been cooked till of a pale 
coffee brown, and then diluted with more or less 
strongly flavoured brown stock, and seasoning to 
taste. Of course, when used as a groundwork to 
more elaborate sauces, it is flavoured, and seasoned 
additionally, but its original taste should be of 
strong, well made stock, without any predominant 
flavour beyond that of meat. The fourth sauce on 
the list, espagnole, derives its name from the 
Spanish ham and Spanish wine which originally 
were indispensable parts of its flavour. Many 
French cooks call any good brown sauce, espagnole 
nowadays, but this, with all due humility, may be 
classed as a mistake, for the above is the real origin 
of the name. 

When your cook has really mastered the art of 
making veloute* and be*chamel, and ta& ^g&fe&&&. 

o 



194 ENTRIES. 

in differentiating the two, you may easily teach 
her to vary her condiments ad infinitum. Thus, 
veloute* may be used for any sauce which does 
not need to be absolutely snowy white, as for in- 
stance, the allemande mentioned above, which is 
made as follows: Pour into a delicately clean pan 
rather more than half a pint of good veloute* (made 
with more or less rich stock, according to the use you 
intend making of it), add to this a gill of veal or 
poultry stock, previously strongly flavoured with 
mushrooms (it must be impressed on cooks that the 
stems and trimmings of mushrooms, the trimmings 
of truffles, and the stalks of parsley are all excellent 
for flavouring purposes and economise the use of the 
original article, which is frequently a consideration), 
and stir this altogether over a sharp fire till reduced, 
or boiled-in, a fourth part ; have ready the yolk of 
one or more eggs beaten up with two or three table- 
spoonfuls of cold white Flock, a dash of lemon juice, 
and. the very smallest grate of nutmeg, and stir this 
all into the reduced sauce ; when perfectly blended 
rub it all through a tammy, heat it in the bain- 
marie, and mix into it just at the last, as you are 
about to dish it, a morsel of butter ; stir this till 
dissolved, and then pour it all into a previously 
scalded sauce boat. Many cooks use allemande as a 
foundation, but this is to be deprecated on the score 
of expense. An observation must be made re the 
tammy. "Where there is a kitcheumaid its use 
should be insisted on, as nothing gives the velvety 
texture so characteristic of a well made sauce as the 
tammy ; but for household ^\xr^o*^ ox -ffasc* the 



SAUCES. 195 

cook is singlehanded, attention to the initial roux 
Trill render unnecessary this troublesome processor 
where it is a sine qua non the mistress must provide 
her cook with a tamis-pressoir (a fine sieve furnished 
with a rotary dasher, which forces the sauce through 
the fine meshes of the sieve). 

Allcmande, with the addition of a little finely minced 
parsley, and a spoonful or so more of cream at the 
last, becomes Sauce poulette; or, if minced mushrooms 
and a suspicion of shallot are added to the parsley, it is 
known as Sauce Pascaline, a very favourite sauce for 
hashed lamb ; whilst if two tablespoonf uls of d' TTxelles 
mixture are added for each pint of allemande it 
becomes sauce d' TTxelles blanche, or sauce aux fines 
herbes (needless to say where economy has to be con- 
sidered veloute* may be used as the foundation of these 
sauces, but a spoonful of cream or new milk, and a 
tiny morsel of butter just at the last are in that case 
indispensable). Sauce Indienne is simply allemande 
sauce to which you have stirred one or more ounces 
of curry butter just at the last, or if preferred an 
ounce of fresh butter and a spoonful of curry pow- 
der ; in this case, however, allowing the sauce just to 
boil up for a minute or two after adding the curry to 
cook the latter. Sauce Portugaise is made by reducing 
together a fourth part, a pint of -veloute and a gill of 
white (preferably poultry) stock, and at the last, 
after sieving it, stirring in the juice of an orange, 
and the finely peeled and blanched rind cut into 
Julienne strips. Sauce Villeroi is a carefully made 
allemande, reduced till very thick, and further 
thickened by an egg and cream Uoiaou, «xA\*s&&Asst 

o2i 



196 ENTRIES. 

masking cutlets, &c, previous to egg and crumbing 
them. 

Bechamel sauce is made by diluting an ounce or 
two of white roux with rather better than a gill each 
of white stock, and milk (the latter previously 
boiled up with a bunch of herbs, one or two green 
onions, and seasoning to taste). This, when reduced 
a fourth part, is then finished off with a couple of 
spoonfuls of thick cream, a dash of lemon juice, and 
white pepper and salt to taste. Obviously this 
sauce may be made more or less rich according to 
the richness of the stock used, the substitution of 
cream for butter, &c. But the point to remember is 
that the milk used in the original mixing of the 
stock, must have been first boiled up with the 
flavouring herbs, and seasoning; it is this which 
constitutes the difference between sauce blanche, 
which is simply melted butter made with milk 
instead of water, and bSchamel niaigre, when no stock 
is used, but only milk flavoured as above. From 
be'chamel we obtain sauce blanquette, when the milk 
used has been boiled with a slice of lean smoked ham 
as well as the herbs, &c., and the whole, when 
tammied, is mixed with minced parsley, and mush- 
rooms (if liked), a squeeze of lemon juice and a 
spoonful or so of cream. The difference between 
this and poulette is its superior delicacy and the 
snowy white tint which differentiates it from the 
more substantial and cream coloured poulette. 

Sauce a la creme is another variant of bechamel! 
mfcde by reducing about a fourth part rather more 
ibzn a pint of be'chamel, with, a gill of rich white 



SAUCES. 197 

stock, a bouquet, a slice of ham, and a handful of 
mushroom stems and peelings, then tammying it, 
and adding into it very gradually 3oz. or 4oz. of 
butter, broken up small, never adding another piece 
of this till the previous piece has been thoroughly 
dissolved. A little attention to this point adds 
greatly to the velvety smoothness and lightness of 
this sauce. 

Sauce a la creme a Vedragon, more succinctly 
known as creme a Vestragon, is made in precisely 
the same way, save that a teaspoonful of tarragon 
vinegar is added just before it is sieved, and a little 
finely minced green tarragon is sprinkled in, as it is 
to be served. Creme aufenouil, or au persil is made 
in the same way, using fennel, or parsley, instead of 
the green tarragon, and plain or chilli vinegar. 
Creme de concombres, a most delicate accompaniment 
for lamb cutlets, <&c, is made by stewing a small 
cucumber in white stock till tender enough to sieve, 
moistening it with a little more stock or milk and 
reducing it over the fire to a thick puree. Then 
dilute this with a short half pint of bechamel, season 
to taste with white pepper, and just let it heat for a 
few minutes (but not boil) in the bain-marie, and at 
the last stir in a couple of spoonfuls of stiffly 
whipped cream. This sauce may be served white, 
or it may be coloured to a faint cucumber green 
with a drop or two of green colouring. Creme de 
champignons can be made in precisely the same way 
using |lb. finely chopped young button mushrooms, 
and stewing these in milk and butter, seasoning it 
with either a short gill of light French wine, or half 



198 ENTREES 

a sherry glassful of sherry and a little lemon juice. 
This can also be made with older mushrooms and 
brown stock. For Sauce Italienne {blanche) mince 
and blanch four shallots, and toss them when 
drained, in a good spoonful of salad oil with two or 
three finely minced mushrooms, and a bouquet ; let 
them cook for five minutes . then add a gill of French 
white wine, and let it all boil together till the wine 
is reduced to half, when you stir in half a pint of 
good reduced bechamel, and a little white stock ; boil 
it up, and serve, after skimming off all the oil care- 
fully and removing the bouquet. (It cannot be too 
strongly impressed on young cooks that greasy 
sauces are an unpardonable offence. As a matter of 
fact it is to neglect of this rule that so many persons 
object to French sauces as " so rich ! " The right 
way is just before serving to draw the pan containing 
the sauce to the side of the stove, and sprinkle in a 
few drops (not spoonfuls!) of cold water on the 
surface; this forces the butter or fat to the top, 
whence it can be easily removed with a spoon on 
tilting the pan slightly. 

Sauce Milanaise, also called Creme au fromage, is 
made by adding two tablespoonfuls of freshly 
grated Parmesan cheese, a good dust of coralline or 
cayenne pepper, and a gill of new milk or cream to 
half a pint of creamy bechamel, and stirring it over 
the fire till the cheese is melted and well blended 
with the rest of the ingredients. A very nice sauce, 
for cutlets, &c, may be made in precisely the same 
way, only using brown or espagnole sauce instead of 
the bechamel, and stirring in a spoonful of made or 



SAUCES. 199 

French mustard with the cheese, &c. A variant of 
this sauce is often known as Sauce Morny, and is 
made by stirring two good tablespoonfuls of freshly 
grated Parmesan cheese, and a dust of cayenne, or 
preferably coralline, pepper into half a pint of good 
veloute sauce until it boils, when it is sieved and 
used. Usually with this sauce, which is frequently 
served with quenelles, rissoles, <fec, a cheese mixture, 
made by dissolving 2oz. or 3oz. of very thinly sliced 
Gruyere, or any other cheese to taste, in two table- 
spoonfuls or so of thick cream, and a dust of 
cayenne pepper, is used as a surface coating,, 
sprinkled with finely chopped parsley, and browned 
with a red hot salamander or the kitchen shoveh 
This sauce is particularly good for rechauffes of all 
kinds. 

Sauce Baifort is prepared by simmering a small 
finely scraped horseradish in about half a pint of 
bechamel sauce (which for this purpose is generally 
the kind made without any stock) for half an hour ; 
then sieve it, heat in the bain-marie, and stir into it 
a liaison of one or more egg yolks, beaten up with 
two or three tablespoonfuls of thick (and preferably 
sour) cream; season with a few drops of tarragon 
or horseradish vinegar, and use. An excellent sauce 
for tournedos or fillets of beef, either fresh or 
rechauffe*. 

Sauce Bavigotte, another sauce much approved of 
with either beef or mutton cutlets, is made thus : 
Blanch 2oz. of onions and a tablespoonful of minced 
parsley for five minutes in boiling water, then strain 
off the water, replacing it with a pint of lailk* s$A 



200 ENTRIES. 

let it all boil together till the milk is well flavoured 
with the onion, &c. ; then strain this millr on to 2oz. 
of white roux (or loz. each of butter and flour 
previously cooked together till perfectly blended), 
and boil it all gently together for a few minutes, 
stirring it occasionally till it thickens. Meanwhile 
boil together a tablespoonful each of tarragon and 
chilli vinegar till reduced to half, and stir this into 
the sauce, adding to this latter just at the last one 
tablespoonful of picked parsley, a dessert spoon- 
ful of garden cress, and a teaspoonful of chives 
and chervil (all very finely minced), with sufficient 
green colouring to bring it all to a very pale green. 
If liked, a spoonful of thick or whipped cream may 
be stirred in just at the last. A plainer version of 
this sauce is Sauce Maitre d' Hotel, for which you stir 
into half a pint of more or less rich be*chamel maigre, 
just at the last, an ounce of Maitre d'Hotel butter, 
a teaspoonful of finely minced parsley, a few drops 
of lemon juice, and a seasoning of salt and white 
pepper. 

Sauce Soubi8e 9 more generally called PurSe, or 
Crhme Soubise (a garnish much appreciated with 
broiled cutlets), is made thus: Blanch two good 
sized onions for five minutes in a little boiling water, 
then drain off this and mince the onion not too 
finely; stew this onion in an ounce of butter (or 
well clarified dripping) till perfectly tender, but not 
coloured, then lift the pan off the fire, stir in half a 
pint of bechamel sauce, and let it all boil up, 
skimming it carefully ; now let it boil-in a little over 
the &re, rub it through & *\^e, *aA. x^fe^, \xv tta 



SAUCES. 201 

bain-marie, adding at the last a spoonful of whipped 

cream. A variation of this is made by stirring about 

a tablespoonful of grated cheese into the mixture, 

which is then known abroad as Crime Soubise au 

fromage. Both these sauces should be very white, 

but there is a form of onion puree in which the 

onions, when stewed, are allowed to colour, and are 

mixed with veloute sauce, being in consequence 

almost a light fawn colour, which is often known in 

England as Sauce Soubise, though its real name is 

Sauce Bretonne. This, again, is also sometimes mixed 

with well-made tomato puree in the proportion of 

two parts onion to one part tomato, ajid is an 

excellent accompaniment to either beef or mutton. 

Of Sauce Supreme we have already spoken, so the 

only remark about it need be that as it is one of the 

choicest in the whole list of French sauces, it should 

never be attempted unless the cook is prepared to 

use the most delicate stock, the freshest butter, and 

the richest of cream, and to give her closest attention 

to its manufacture. 

The same remarks as have been made with reference 
to veloute* and be*chamel apply quite as forcibly to 
brown and espagnole sauces. For the first the 
roux brun must be slowly and carefully prepared; 
the flour used for it being free from all mustiness or 
staleness, and above all, be perfectly dry ; whilst the 
butter used, if the very best fresh cannot be afforded, 
should be good and well washed salt butter ; whilst 
the stock must be strong, delicately seasoned, and 
well flavoured with vegetables. In all cases, it is 
better to give this vegetable flavouring by means ot 



202 ENTRIES. 

the stock ; but many delicate sauces are absolutely 
ruined by the crude tastes of raw vegetables added 
at the last, after the sauce is practically made, to 
give the requisite characteristic. Where wine is 
required, though vintage wines need not be em- 
ployed, good sound liquor, however light, is indis- 
pensable, and is, moreover, easily procured by those 
who care to look for it. Corked, soured, or stale 
wine is absolute destruction; sour, coarse stock is 
distinctly unwholesome ; whilst roux made of inferior 
flour and bad butter can never be anything but 
disagreeable, and if stale from overkeeping is pretty 
sure to be indigestible. Roughly speaking, brown 
sauce is simply melted butter made with well-flavoured 
brown stock, but espagnole is somewhat differently 
prepared: Fry together a carrot, turnip, two or 
three green onions, a tomato or two, and some mush- 
rooms if handy, all sliced or roughly chopped, a 
bunch of herbs, and a good slice of lean smoked 
ham, in butter or clarified dripping till nicely 
coloured (a very tiny pinch of caster sugar sprinkled 
over all this is declared by many chefs to improve 
both the appearance and the flavour of the subse- 
quent sauce) ; then moisten it either with rich brown 
stock, or good brown sauce (in the former case when 
boiled up it must be blended with a spoonful or two 
of the brown roux) and boil it up sharply till reduced 
a fourth part ; now tammy or sieve it, adding a little 
sherry or Madeira, lemon juice, and seasoning to 
taste, let it just boil up and as you pour it into the 
scalded-out sauce boat, add a small piece of butter, 
which should dissolve on its way to the dining-room* 



SAUCES. 208 

it is evident that the flaT&or imparvad hy li*e** two 
sauces must differ consS&erabthr, and ccq tin*? ooc^r'* 
capacity for realising this -difenenMr will depend tLe 
success of her sauce. When -exlraTaricnoe v&Jk the 
place of gourmetterie, espagnok came u> be xwad as 
the only foundation safooe. td G-onxfLfc. rejLBsmjr tie 
unsuitability of the higLly spiced fjspagnolfc, qukftilT 
ignored its history and set up the brcrvx sauoe given 
above under the name of esj aznolt. te more hint 
before giving particular sauces ; this if with regard 
to Sauces de Reduction (hxerhUr r-aduoed s&aoes), t^., 
sauces whose consistencx is due to their boHing-ia 
whilst making. Perhaps the using of the word 
"thickening" in place of the French rcmz has 
strengthened the fallacy that the substance of a 
sauce depends on the greater or less quantity of roux 
used for it. To a certain extent this is of course 
true, but no sauce is really properly made which 
owes its substance simply to its thickening ; a sauce 
never obtains its full flavour till the qualities of its 
ingredients are condensed by this boiling-in process. 

From the plain brown sauce we derive Sauce au 
Beurre d'Anchois. Boil together a pint of good 
brown sauce, a bunch of herbs, and a gill of strong 
brown stock, and let it reduce till the sauce clings 
to, and slightly coats, the spoon with which you stir 
it ; then skim well, sieve if necessary, and leave it 
in the bain-marie till wanted. When to be served 
stir into it at the last moment an ounce or more of 
anchovy butter, and serve at once. 

Sauce Bretonne is made exactly like the Sauce Sou- 
bise previously given, only using good brown sauce 



204, ENTRIES, 

instead of the veloute" there mentioned. This sauce 
is also called Sauce Claremont. 

Sauce aux Champignons. — Boil 4oz. or so of nicely 
wiped and broken up mushrooms in half a pint of 
good brown sauce for a few minutes, stirring it well, 
and serve as it is, plain or sieved, seasoning it to 
taste with lemon juice, salt, and cayenne, adding a 
tiny piece of butter just as you lift it from the fire. 
This is excellent for cutlets, fillets of beef, &c., 
and should be of the consistency of a thickish 
puree. 

Chutney Sauce. — For this boil together for a 
minute or two two tablespoonfuls each of hot and 
>f sweet chutney, four tablespoonfuls of good brown 
lauce, a small teaspoonful of made or French 
mustard, a full tablespoonf ul of tomato pulp, and a 
good spoonful of very strong stock, or a little of 
Liebig Co.'s extract of meat; season to taste and 
serve. 

Sauce Crapaudine. — This is most excellent with 
any kind of broiled or fried bird. Stew 4oz. of freshly 
grated white breadcrumbs in 6oz. of butter or clari- 
fied dripping, till lightly coloured to a nice brown, 
then pour off the fat, moisten the bread with half a 
pint of good brown sauce (ready for use), add a 
teaspoonful of finely minced parsley, a dash of 
coralline pepper, and the juice of a small lemon ; let 
it boil up once or twice and serve as it ic. 

Curry Sauce. — Blend together a couple of ounces 
of good roux and about an ounce of curry 
powder, then moisten it with a pint of thin, well 
flavoured brown sauce, stir it over the fire till it 



boils up, let it boil for fifteen marates, then neve 
and keep it not in the bain-marie tall wanted. 
Another method is to dilute the flour, emit , and 
butter with half a pint of boiling water in which 
yon hare previously infused a couple of tablespwm- 
fuls of tamarinds ; boil this altogether for fifteen to 
twenty minutes, then stir into this half a pint of 
good brown or tomato sauce, bring it to the boil, 
add a spoonful of cocoanut milk, or a squeeze of 
lemon juice, and a little grated cocoanut, and serve. 
Especially good with Teal, or white meat, and also 
with fish of any kind. 

Sauce EchalotU. — Moisten six or eight shallots, a 
bay leaf, some parsley, and a little thyme, with half 
a gill of strong real stock, and reduce it to a glaze ; 
then pour on to it half a pint of brown sauce, let it 
cook gently for ten minutes at the side of the store, 
strain, and keep in the bain-marie till wanted. This 
is also rery good, if clear stock or gravy is used 
instead of thick sauce. Excellent with mutton. 

8auce Marsala. — Boil up together a gill of 
Marsala, a good pinch of freshly ground black 
pepper, and a gill of strong stock till reduced to 
half; then add to it half a pint of brown sauce, and 
let it cook together till the sauce will coat the spoon. 
If to this sauce thus made you add some turned (i.e., 
stoned) olives, and allow them to cook in the sauce 
till thoroughly hot, adding at the last a small pat of 
plain, or maitre d'hotel butter, with a squeeze of 
lemon juice and a suspicion of coralline pepper, you 
have Sauce aux olives, most excellent with fillets of 
beef, Ac., or hashed duck. Like moat ot thaw* 



206 ENTRIES. 

sauces, this may, if liked, be made on a foundation 
of espagnole. 

Sauce Poivrade. — This is a sauce frequently used 
as a foundation for others, and in this case is made 
by frying together, till lightly coloured, two shallots 
with 4oz. minced lean ham, a bay leaf, and some 
parsley, moistening it all with a gill of good 
brown vinegar ; let it cook till reduced to 
half, when it is added to three-quarters of a pint of 
brown sauce ; skim well, and boil till reduced to half, 
when it is ready. If to half a pint of this you add a 
spoonful of minced pickled gherkins with a few 
drops of the pickling liquid belonging to them, bring 
it just to the boil, and at the last add a tiny pat of 
plain butter, you have Sauce aux Cornichons, 
excellent with fillets of beef, &c. If, again, you stir 
into half a pint of this poivrade one-third of a pint 
of light claret and a gill of strong stock, allowing it 
to reduce sharply a fourth part, skimming it care- 
fully, and adding just at the last a teaspoonf ul of 
currant or rowan jelly and the juice of an orange, 
you produce Sauce chevreuil, most excellent with 
venison, roe deer, and mountain goat especially (from 
personal experience this may be recommended with 
ibex venison), and said to be a form of the original 
Sauce Robert, which many authorities assert to be 
the translation into French of the old English " roe- 
brewet," or roe deer sauce. An ounce of anchovy 
butter, or of plain butter, with a squeeze of lemon 
juice, a few drops of essence of anchovy, and a good 
tablespoonful of capers, stirred into half a pint of 
this poivrade and simmewiVaAX. tot *»to^ Tauautes^ 



produces a deKdooE m** *mmm~ ««£asr w^ti. zzr* 
broiled or stewed rmetCL. &f- 

Sauce Portmaawe. — Pin nmc & tse_ tair *-tz*s*c 
rind of a nice lemon, fr«*r «r d tvutlt^ ~ns3*d. 
black peppercorns, iiwe or d +*&**& & uesf ^sd 
a spray of thyme, and. if Ije**L t izr- *j2U&: 
of mace; dilute this vitL oRt-inrrd «x t pur 
of sherry or marsala. and simmer icr t^i innnrw 
over a slow foe. Thex add it iiia usiif < 
pint of well reduced nrowx tairc^ t idL «jf £trm*r 
stock or glaze, and lama: x: ix iii% VjI sKirtr.*. 
skimming it well, and aliowon? i: it j*^^*^ £. itrtMt 
Sieve it, and leave in the vaa^marj^ * il ^inn^d, 
when a pat of maitrt drnwL vixr«zr msr- i/*: dasfcurv^c 
in it; ar 9 faffing this, a lirtkr piaix. ironer. & *yi*«-*2s*: 
of lemon juice, and some verj fme3y iv'nf&i y&»jny. 
Excellent with braised fLei of 't^^f ur Vteuf c?« 
gratia. 

Sauce Tomcde. — Stalk and naive ZZ\. r A z'syL, -weB- 
eolonred tomatoes, and pla^e theni ix z. largish s&i>3£- 
pan with a bouquet of herbs, a small teaswxmf id of 
salt, half a one of pepper, and a f uH giU of water ; 
bring this gentlj to the boil, and simmer slowly for 
forty minutes, stirring it constantly and gently with 
a very clean, or new, wooden spoon, to prevent its 
catching ; then rub it all through a wire sieve, and 
mix it with one-third of a pint of thin brown sauce, 
and let it cook together for fifteen or twenty minutes 
longer, stirring it constantly. If too thick, add a 
little more thin sauce ; if too thin, boil up sharply 
to reduce it. This sauce may be made with can nod 
tomatoes simply pulped through a sieve aud cooksj<i 



208 ENTRIES. 

for twenty minutes with the brown sauce. A drop 
or two of carmine is permissible in this case, as the 
great beauty of this sauce is its rich colour, and for 
this canned tomatoes are not always sufficient. This 
will be found rather thicker than the ordinary 
tomato sauce, but in France it is almost invariably 
served as a sort of purde, like the purSe Soubise, 
there used instead of our onion sauce. It should 
taste very strongly of tomato, and, therefore, brown 
sauce is better with it than the highly spiced and 
flavoured espagnole, which would almost overpower 
the proper tomato taste. This tomato sauce is often 
mixed with Portugaise and other sauces for use with 
braised and broiled beef ; and, when cold, is mixed 
with mayonnaise sauce in equal parts, adding a dash 
of lemon juice or tarragon vinegar, when it becomes 
Sauce Tomate a la mayonnaise ; or with equal parts 
of tartare sauce, with the addition of a little chopped 
green tarragon and a few drops of tarragon vinegar, 
when it is known as Sauce Maximilien. The deriva- 
tives from espagnole sauce are many, and include 
most of the more delicate and expensive brown 
sauces of the French cuisine. 

Sauce Bigarade. — Peel thinly a Seville or bitter 
orange {bigarade), shred it into julienne strips, and 
blanch it for three or four minutes in boiling water ; 
stir together half a pint of good espagnole with a gill 
of glaze or strong stock made from game bones, 
reduce, by sharp boiling, a full third, then stir in the 
blanched and shred orange peel and the strained 
juice of two Seville oranges, with a good dash of 
cayenne. This sauce is usually served with wild 



SAUCES. 209 

duck, and in that case the broken-up carcase of the 
bird is used for the glaze. This sauce can also be 
made with plain brown sauce, adding to this, how- 
ever, a little essence of anchovy. 

Sauce Bordelaise. — Put into a pan a tablespoonf ul 
of minced and blanched shallot, a pinch of fresh and 
coarsely ground black pepper, and a full gill of 
claret (Bordeaux), and reduce it sharply to half, 
when you stir into it half a pint of good espagnole, 
skim and reduce a little, add a tablespoonf ul of finely 
minced parsley, and serve. This sauce should always 
be rather thin. 

Sauce B (mrguignonne.— Toss in an ounce of butter 
or clarified dripping, two or three mushrooms, two 
or three shallots or small silver onions, and a spray 
or two each of parsley and thyme, till they are well 
browned ; then add half a pint of red wine (Burgundy), 
and two or three cloves, and let it reduce to half ; 
stir to this half a pint of rich espagnole, and a gill of 
strong stock or consomme, or some Liebig extract ; 
boil for fifteen to twenty minutes, skimming it well, 
' and letting it reduce a fourth part ; tammy, and use. 
• Many cooks just tie the thyme, parsley, and mace, if 
used, into a bunch, and lifting this out at the last, 
serve the sauce as it stands. 

Sauce Chateaubriand. — This is made exactly like 
Sauce Marsala, only using espagnole and white 
French or Rhine wine, for the brown sauce and 
the Marsala there given. Served frequently with 
filet Chateaubriand. 

Sauce a la Diable. — Fry together in butter a slice 
or two of lean minced ham and a mino&d. «ha£s& <st 



210 ENTRIES. 

two, moistening these, when lightly browned, with 
half a gill of good vinegar ; add a bouquet and some 
roughly bruised black peppercorns, and trimmer it 
all gently till the vinegar is reduced to half ; mean- 
while work together one and a half gills of good 
espagnole, a gill of tomato sauce, and half a gill of 
veal stock, reduce this a fourth part, then add the 
reduced vinegar strained, and a tiny pinch of caster 
sugar ; let it boil up once or twice, sieve and stir into 
it just at the last an ounce of cayenne butter. 
Excellent with almost any rechauffe*. 

Sauce Financiers — To a pint of rich espagnole 
add two or three mushrooms, two or three truffles 
(previously tossed in butter and moistened with 
sherry), and loz. of good poultry glaze ; let it cook 
together till it will mask the spoon when lifted, then 
serve either plain or tammied. Many cooks flavour 
this with the truffle trimmings, adding the cooked 
and sliced truffles at the last. (It may be well to 
mention that poultry or other glaze or essence is 
simply very strong stock boiled down to a thick 
gluey substance, just like the meat glaze sold in 
bladders. Where much game comes into the house, 
a good cook will utilise and store in this way, the 
stock from the carcases, trimmings, Ac., for a little 
added to any stock gives it much delicacy; at the 
same time it needs judgment, for if used for any and 
everything it would lead to the same mistake as 
caused M. Gouffe to give up espagnole). 

Sauce Italienne (Brune). — Boil down a gill of any 
light white wine (French for choice) to half, then 
stir it into half a pint of rich reduced espagnole, 



SAUCES. 2 1 1 

with half an ounce of glaze, and a lyj'sj *ja/\m-i u ot 
d'Uxelles mixture and serve. 

Sauce Madere. — Reduce a £JU of hWirr? w itfu< ♦*:«♦«> 
seasoned "with a pinch of «^iu , 6»jjv j* «•"»"«<■ «im^'.> 
pepper to half; stir together ov*?r tL» hu in.** t j/m> 
of rich espagnole and half a £JJJ vj h!a«.m.$' m ; ,. in«/»!r 
till reduced a third part, theti jx>u» n 01. u. ; ,m nn,i 
let it boil up and use. &wu*w hu CUvt/^/Hij,,., u n 0k M 
in the same way, only ouui.tUujr' Mi» j/nj>j/i?* y.,vi.* 
people, however, prefer brown tjt*u«;» *u • !<nti,<<.<<vH 
for this, as hiding the flitvyuj o* f ,ii* r m,i <( . ■, !. 
is served generally with roiust or u««.-.u>».< *..••. H,t» 
of beef , &c. Sauce Malayu it> mu't» : w vm .v\,<;i *< 
only using port wiue, and uavM.v •,».«. >„ ■,,.,<< 
blanched and minced aiiutllow i</ ■ ut j/« jm' 1 ' .•» ' 
stirring in at the lcwrt a b'»ju»p*/.» *j\ ^n.'/i ,...«. ,m.' , 
pat of cayenne butter. 

Sauce Mirahwu. — Put into v yiw * .;«..'.•. . *■. .. 
black peppercorn*, a bay 1*^. «m** . ;• ' <»i 
vinegar, and reduce it to W.i '.m-i n ■• ■.« 
ounce of glaze, a du«t of <^huv "»•/',•*, ••«».'■ . '• ' ^ • 
of espagnole, ju«t brxxx% tW '.«.< '.in »/*» m.i i ,.is .> 
from the fire aiid work iutv ^ <£v/ •»* • »».■> m-i m.^.u 
up small, allowing it to j\.«? /.,-/' •#«. ■ «•]. «,h. *m<i. 
addicg each piece of buvu*f i>o w Vo im.^.h* *,t.» 
melting of each befor** th*- i*»w? >r «.«.ivii.'.i .» ,^ < l(l 
attention to this poijul iiuu.t 1ju». *Um •■•v.* *>t '•«.'<* wmim 
depends. Finish off witb a iiul» ■ iu»t • • v a ■ > uu ,«/ • w nl«v 
or tarragon, ajud a dust of comJliut. pej.»p«-» M"<i 
beau is really a browu form of Jit-turinnM.-, avj t-Kould 
properly come ajnongst the butter baua'if. Jt it- uhi,<J 
with cutlet*, fillet* of beef, &e. JJ preferred, hyti 

f2 






212 ENTRIES. 

French white wine can be used instead of the vinegar, 
finishing it off with lemon juice instead of herbs. It 
is then called Sauce Parisienne and is delicious with 
noisettes of any meat. 

Sauce Perigeux. — Fry in butter till lightly coloured 
4oz. minced lean ham, two small shallots, the trim- 
mings of four or five truffles, and a pinch of black 
pepper ; moisten it then with half a gill of Madeira 
or sherry, and reduce this rapidly to half. Pour on 
to this half a pint of rich espagnole, and half a gill 
of strong Teal stock, and simmer it at the side of 
the stove for twenty minutes, skimming it carefully ; 
then tammy, and again reduce till it will mask the 
spoon. Before serving, stir in a spoonful or two of 
finely sliced truffles cooked in a little sherry. 

Sauce Piquante. — For this mix a gill of the 
poivrade sauce, previously given, with half a pint of 
good espagnole, let them reduce a fourth part to- 
gether, and use. It may be mentioned that when 
sauce Poivrade is to be served as a sauce by itself it 
may be made by the former recipe, only using richly 
flavoured espagnole instead of brown sauce, and 
adding a little wine. 

Sauce Reform. — The original recipe for this was 
to bring half a pint of poivrade sauce (made with 
espagnole) to the boil, then to stir into it half a gill 
of port wine, an ounce of red currant jelly, and a 
good clash of cayenne, and boil together till reduced 
to the right consistency. This is the way it was 
made originally at the Eeform Club whose chef 
invented the dish. Now almost any rich brown 
sauce, flavoured with. , WoTCfe«tet wksa and currant 



SAUCES. 213 

jelly, is admitted, as long as the Eeform garnish is 
adhered to. 

Sanee Robert. — Cat two medium sized onions into 
dice, and fry in butter till of a golden brown, then 
drain off the butter, and cook them in a little stock 
with a tiny pinch of sugar, till melted ; meantime 
boil a full half pint of espagnole with a gill of light 
French wine (or white wine vinegar), and a handful 
of mushroom stalks and trimmings, till reduced n 
fourth part ; sieve it, stir it to the onions, odd a good 
spoonful of made mustard and serve. Excellent 
with pork cutlets, hashed goose, Ac. 

Sauce Richelieu. — This is simply espagnole made 
with strong game stock, and enriched at the last 
with strong game glaze or essence. It should Ixi 
specially dark in colour, and taste strongly of game. 
If 8oz. or 4oz. of dried cherries or pruned are 
stewed in a gill of claret with a strip of lemon peel, 
a piece of stick cinnamon, and a few cloves, for 
twenty minutes at the side of the stove till tender, 
and then stirred into a good half pint of this sauce 
(after removing the lemon peel, cinnamon, and 
cloves) it is known as Sauce St. Hubert, and is in 
Germany much used with venison, wild boar, Ac. 

It is manifestly impossible in a book of this size 
to give even a tenth of the sauces in use, but tho 
above will allow of considerable variety, and if 
thoroughly mastered, will enable the cook to pick up 
any new sauces she may come across fairly easily. 

Hot butter sauces are much used abroad, and very 
delicious they are, and well worth the trouble they 
entail. For instance : 



214 ENTRIES. 

Sauce Beamaise. — Put into a pan three or four 
shallots, some roughly crushed allspice or black 
peppercorns, as you please, and a tiny bit of mace, 
pour to this a gill of tarragon vinegar and half a 
pint of water, and allow it to boil-in to half ; then 
strain and leave it till cold. Strain three or four 
eggs into a pan, and stir them over a slow fire with 
enough of the above liquid to produce a rich custard, 
then stir in bit by bit 2oz. of fresh butter, and when 
these have all been worked in, sprinkle in a tea- 
spoonful of minced tarragon, and serve. This sauce 
thould be made just as it is wanted, as it oils if it 
has to stand ; still, as accidents will happen, it will 
keep fairly good for twelve or fifteen minutes if 
stood in the bain-marie ; whilst if it oils, the addition 
of a tiny knob of ice in summer, or a little cold 
water in winter, will often bring it back to fairly 
^ood condition. This sauce should be like mayon- 
naise in appearance and consistency. Indeed, it is 
often called " hot mayonnaise." 

Sauce a la B* Orleans. — Bring to the boil two 
tablespoonfuls of the best Orleans vinegar, then add 
to it a full tablespoonful of rich espagnole sauce, 
and let this heat ; now work into it bit by bit l£oz. to 
2oz. of fresh butter, being careful not to add the 
next piece till the first is perfectly dissolved ; then 
stir into it a dust of cayenne and of caster sugar, 
with a good pinch of finely minced parsley, and 
serve. 

Sauce* Francaise. — To the quantity of Bearnaise 

sauce given above add half a gill of good tomato 

purSe, with an ounce oi very cfctoT^ Ooas&Ka. ?fcy&.\ 



SAUCES. 215 

add a small teaspoonful of finely minced parsley 
and a teaspoonful of chilli vinegar, and use with 
fillets or cutlets of any meat or poultry. 

These butter sauces, again, are many. 

Lastly, there are cold sauces. For brown 
chaufroiz sauces, roughly speaking, an excellent 
result may be obtained by placing in a pan a gill of 
any rich brown sauce, with half a gill each of wine and 
Tery strong stock, dissolving in this as it boils from 
•$oz. to £oz. of best leaf gelatine, skimming it well, 
and allowing it to reduce a fourth part ; then sieve 
and use as it cools. Manifestly this chauf roix can 
be varied according to the sauce and the wine used. 
For instance, brown sauce and sherry or Madeira ; 
espagnole and Madeira or champagne; Richelieu 
with Chablis or port ; Perigeux Sauce and Burgundy ; 
Salmi sauce and port, &c, can all be used with 
excellent effect according to the meat to be masked, 
glazing all of these with strong, clarified, and just 
liquid stock, in which £oz. to £oz. of gelatine to the 
half pint has been dissolved. 

White chaufroiz may be made in exactly the same 
way, only using white stock and cream instead of 
the wine, and glaze. A delicate red chaufroix is 
produced by dissolving gelatine in a rich- coloured 
tomato sauce and using it in the same way; 
whilst a very delicate green chaufroix may be made 
by adding £oz. of gelatine and a drop or two of 
green colouring to the Creme de concombres previously 
given amongst the white sauces. 

Of course, where aspic may be used with the sauces, 
you stir together a gill of any good sauce to half a 



216 ENTRIES. 

pint of aspic jelly, let it reduce a little, and 
use when setting. Then, of course, en aspic must 
be added to the name of the dish. But aspic is 
not to be recommended for the finest white sauces, 
with which the acidity of the vinegar is apt to 
disagree. 

As a fact, almost all the delicate crenie sauces 
previously given may be turned into chaufroix by 
the help of fine leaf gelatine, and are generally 
delicious, if stood on ice till perfectly cold, without 
being actually frozen, as are some of the more 
strongly flavoured ones. 

Mayonnaise. — Crush in a bowl with a wooden 
spoon about a teaspoonful of mustard flour, half an 
average saltspoonful each of salt and white pepper, 
then work into it the yolk of a raw egg (see that a 
special wooden spoon is kept for mayonnaise making, 
and that it is well scalded each time of using), and 
add to it, drop by drop, the very best salad oil, till 
it is quite as thick as butter ; then add about 1£ tea- 
spoonfuls of vinegar (plain or flavoured, as you 
please), when it should become quite creamy, and is 
ready. It should be used at once, but if it must 
stand a little, stir into the above quantity about a 
small dessertspoonful of actually boiling water. The 
above will make half a pint of sauce. If from any 
cause, such as the too quick pouring in of the oil, 
Ac, the sauce thin or curdle suddenly, the only 
thing to do is to break another egg into a clean 
basin and slowly work into it the curdled sauce, 
almost drop by drop. If stored in a cool place it is 
possible to keep mayonnaise good for a day or so, 



SAUCES. 217 

but it must be closely covered up, for exposure to 
the air soon turns it oily and rank. 

Mayonnaise, like many other gauges, can b* very 
much varied. For instance, white mayon,nm*t i* 
prepared by using lemon juice instead of riz*v%r, 
and adding at the last a gill of very stiffly irkpp^i 
cream to the mixture. For r*A may/tim/vM. stir 
equal parts of mayonnaise and tomato par6r 
together, adding, if necessary, a dash of ft* roared 
vinegar to the mixture. For green may'/nnm*e 
blanch some sprays of parsley, chervil, and t&m%'sz, 
drain off the water, pound the herb* smoothly, &z*'i 
then incorporate them with some mayonnal^: &lwj:, 
adding a drop or two of green colouring to get it all 
a delicate green. If mayonnaise omjac i* desired, a/Id 
three large tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise to a short 
half pint of aspic jelly, incorporating them well. A 
delicious masking sauce may be made by stirring a 
full tablespoonful of mixed olives, or truffles, as you 
please, into a short half pint of mayonnaise, with a 
dust of coralline pepper, and a squeeze of Lemon 
juice, stirring in at the last about a gill of stiffly 
whipped cream. All these sauces should be stood 
on ice till wanted. 

Mint Sauce. — Take the tops of some young mint, 
washing and drying them carefully in a clean cloth, 
and mince them as finely as possible, being careful 
not to squeeze or crush them, or the flavour will be 
lost; put them at once into the tureen with two 
tablespoonf uls of caster sugar to every three table- 
spoonfuls of minced mint ; stir them well together. 
Add to this quantity five tablespoonfuls of best 



218 ENTRIES. 

vinegar, and let it all stand for two or three boors 
before use. 

Mousseline Sauce. — Stir together a gill of aspic 
whipped till stiff and frothy, a gill of mayonnaise 
sauce, and a gill of stiffly whipped cream, with a 
dust of coralline pepper and of caster sugar, and a 
small spoonful of vinegar. Plain, white, green, or 
red mayonnaise can be used for this. 

Creme Baifort. — Well wash, scrape, and grate 
finely a stick of young horseradish, then whisk it 
quickly into a gill of stiffly whipped cream, flavouring 
it as you do so with cayenne and plain or chilli 
vinegar, or lemon juice. If preferred, sour cream 
can be used for this. A very delicate form of this 
sauce is Creme Baifort a VAlceste (said to have been 
called after the flagship of the admiral who invented 
it, Sir Beauchamp Seymour, I believe), made by 
pounding the yolk of a hard-boiled egg with a good 
mustardspoonful each of English and French 
mustard, half a small teaspoonful of caster sugar, 
and a saltspoonf ul of celery salt ; this is then stirred 
lightly into about half a pint of stiffly whipped 
cream, with a pinch of grated orange peel, a tea- 
spoonful of tarragon vinegar (the quantity of this 
is a matter of taste), and a full tablespoonful of 
freshly grated horse radish. This can be moulded, 
or left rocky, but in any case should be frozen in ice 
or in an ice cave. If set in a border mould it makes 
a most delicious border for neatly sliced cold beef, 
seasoned with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, and 
finely minced parsley, chives, &c, a nice French 
salad being served in the cental. 



SAUCES. 219 

Remoulade. — To half a pint of thick mayonnaise 
add a spoonful each of capers, minced pickled 
gherkins, and blanched and minced shallots, with 
two washed, boned, and minced anchovies, and leave 
on ice till wanted. 

Sauce Tartare. — To half a pint of remoulade add 
a spoonful of minced herbs (parsley, chervil, chives, 
tarragon, &a), a small tablespoonful of made 
English mustard, a teaspoonf ul of chilli vinegar, and 
a dust of cayenne. 

Sauce Suedoise, — Stir together two tablespoonf uls 
each of finely-gratea norse-radish and thick cream 
into half a pint of rather thick mayonnaise, add a 
dust of cayenne, and set on ice till wanted. This is 
very good frozen. 

Cambridge Sauce. — Pound four well-washed and 
boned anchovies with the yolks of three hard-boiled 
eggs, a good spoonful of capers, a few minced chives, 
two or three sprays each of parsley, tarragon, 
chervil, Ac., blanched and minced, adding gradually 
as you pound it all, a teaspoonful each of made 
English and French mustard, a little white pepper, 
and, if necessary, a little salt. (This must depend 
on the anchovies.) When these are all smooth, add 
gradually sufficient good salad oil to bring it to the 
consistency of butter, thin it with a very little 
tarragon vinegar, and sieve it all, carefully scraping 
up all the sauce that adheres to the under side of the 
sieve, and set on ice till wanted. 

Cazanova Sauce. — Prepare some mayonnaise by 
using a hard-boiled egg yolk as well as a raw 
one, together with a mustardspoonful each of 



220 ENTRIES. 

English and French mustard, working it up with 
thick cream instead of oil, adding this very slowly, 
as it is even more apt to curdle than oil, thin it with 
about a dessertspoonful of strained lemon juice, 
getting the sauce quite white and thick. Now rub 
the dish in which it is to be served once or twice 
with fresh cut garlic, stir into the sauce the hard- 
boiled egg white and two or three truffles, all cut 
into julienne strips, and serve in the garlic-rubbed 
dish, after standing for an hour or two on ice. 



CHAPTEB XII. 

ODDS A2STD Z5TDS. 

Aspic. — The nature of this savoury jelly depends a 
good deal on what it is to be used for. Formerly it 
was almost invariably made bj boiling down calves' 
feet with various addenda of spicks, vegetables, &c., 
a costly and tedious process which stood in the way 
of its general use in ordinary households. Since 
however the introduction of gelatine of good quality, 
and the reduction in price to some extent of isin- 
glass, these last products have been utilised as a 
foundation, to the saviDg of time and trouble. If a 
strong meat flavour is required, the gelatine should 
be added to strong and well clarified consomnie*, or 
dissolved consomme* Maggi, meat glaze, &c, as may 
be convenient; if only needed for an ornamental 
garnish it can be perfectly made with water, as 
follows: put into a very clean stewpan 2joz. of best 
leaf gelatine, a dessertspoonful of salt, eighteen or 
twenty peppercorns and allspice mixed, the strained 
juice of a lemon, a bay leaf, a sliced onion, and a 
good bunch of herbs (parsley, young green onion, 
green tarragon — if this is not available, use either a 
table or dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar — and a 
blade of mace), stir into it the broken-u^ *h&lU uc*l 



222 ENTREES. 

the whites of two eggs, pour over it a quart of warm 
water, and a short gill of brown vinegar ; bring this 
gently to the boil, whisking it a little at the first to 
mix the ingredients well, and when it boils up, strain 
it through a warm jelly bag. It should be quite 
clear, but if not, run it through the bag a second 
time. (The meat aspic jelly is made in precisely the 
same way, only substituting a quart of well flavoured 
stock for the water.) This jelly will be pretty stiff, 
as it is intended for borders; if only needed for 
garnishing and chopping l£oz. to 2oz. of gelatine will 
be found ample. (It may be observed that if aspic 
jelly is not in constant use it will be best to strain it 
through a clean napkin instead of the jelly bag, as 
the vegetables, vinegar, &c, might give an un- 
pleasant flavour to any sweet jelly run through the 
bag afterwards, however carefully the latter is 
scalded out.) Be careful of the temperature of the 
liquid added to the ingredients, for if too hot, or 
boiling as some cooks advise, it will curdle and set 
the egg whites at once and not clear well. Whisking 
the jelly too long, i.e., after it has nearly reached 
boiling point; using a greasy or dirty pan, or 
allowing the gelatine to touch anything greasy, are 
both causes of clouding. To chop aspic, sprinkle a 
sheet of white paper well with cold water, and cut 
up the aspic with a well wetted knife, on this ; 
sprinkling it with a very little more cold water if 
necessary, and chop as fine as possible, for the finer 
it is the more brilliant it will be. If to be put on 
with a forcing bag and pipe, be sure the latter are 
well wetted before putting yel \ka \&llj, or it -will not 



ODDS AND ENDS. 223 

flow out properly. For aspic cream, tomato aspic, 
&c, stir a gill of cream, tomato puree, or whatever 
sauce ia to be used, with half a pint of just liquid 
aspic, add a little tarragon vinegar if necessary (be 
careful about this, for over-acid aspic is a very 
common fault), tammy it, and use when cooling, for 
masking, lining moulds, &e. 

Bain-marie.— This utensil is a most useful one, 
and of almost universal use abroad, where few save 
chefs have kitchenmaids ; though in England it is 




looked on as a luxury only required in very large 
kitchens. This, however, is a great mistake. Where 
a cook is single-handed it is all but impossible to 
get ready everything required at the moment of use. 
So various things such as sauces, garnishee, Ac, may 
be kept warm, and handy in this vessel, and indeed 
are bo kept abroad, as shown in the illustration copied 
from a real potin use (Fig. 16). Various substitutes 
for this pan have been introduced (on. account <& \ta 



224 ENTRIES. 

large cost in this country), of which probably the 
best known is the " gourmet-boiler," but with a little 
management the cost need not be in the least pro- 
hibitive. The only things required are, a shallow 
kettle (such as most ironmongers sell as fish fryers), 
and a few small block tin saucepans, to fit in it. Of 
course where expense is no object copper pans, <fcc, 
are nicest, but the above homely arrangement works 
admirably. In putting sauces in this pan, pour a 
spoonful of liquid very gently over the surface of 
each, as this prevents the formation of a skin, which 
it is not easy to dissolve in a hurry when wanted ; 
using brown stock for dark and milk for white 
sauces. 

Blanching Vegetables, &c. — Tfiis is very simply done 
by putting the object to be blanched, after cleaning 
and trimming it, into plenty of cold water with a 
pinch of salt, then bringing it to the boil, straining 
it off directly it has reached that point, rinsing it in 
cold water, and drying it in a clean cloth. Various 
meats, such as sweetbread, &c, are blanched, but in 
that case are allowed actually to cook for a little 
after the water is brought to the boil, to ensure the 
firmness of the article blanched. 

Batter. — Of this there are several kinds. One has 
already been given ; another is made by putting into 
a basin say 4oz. of fine sifted flour ; make a hollow 
in this and drop into it the yolks of two fresh eggs, 
with a tablespoonf ul of best salad oil, little by little 
mixing in the surrounding flour, adding a little cold 
water gradually, as required, but keeping the 
mixture thick enough, to ensxrcfc \te xwkhin^ smooth j 



ODDS AND ENDS. 225 

when half a gill of cold water has been added in this 
way, beat the batter well with a wooden spoon till it 
is quite full of air bubbles, then mix in another half 
gill of water and let it rest for two hours at least, 
when you mix in lightly and quickly the whites of 
the eggs beaten to a very stiff froth with a tiny 
pinch of salt, and use. A commoner kind of batter 
is often made, but the above will be found well 
worth the little extra trouble it entails. For pem- 
cakes make a batter with loz. fine sifted flour, a 
pinch each of salt and coralline pepper, and two and 
a half tablespoonfuls of milk for each egg used. 
Strain this and fry in butter, or marrow fat, but not 
lard. 

Borders. — These are made of many things, but 
the principal ones are farce, rice, or potato for hot 
borders, and savoury cream, rice, or aspic for cold 
ones. The directions for farce borders have been 
given in the chapter on creams, mousses, &c. For a 
potato border ; peel and boil the potatoes carefully, 
to have them as dry as possible, as when cooked 
they must be sieved through a wire sieve ; now 
season with a little salt, and for three average- 
sized potatoes mix in loz. butter, the yolk of one raw 
egg, and a dust of coralline pepper, or use a spoon- » 
f ul or two of milk instead of the egg ; mix this all 
with a clean wooden spoon till it ceases to cling to 
the finger if touched, then turn it out on to a well 
floured paste board, and roll it out with your well 
floured hands into a straight rQll, about 2in. across 
and just half as long again as the utmost breadth 
you wish your border to be. Cut thia to\L\3&.\j&3&om* 



226 



ENTRIES. 



in Fig. 17, trimming off the ends diagonally, as at 
the dotted lines c c, then bend these two pieces into 
a round, or an oval, as in Fig. 18, smoothing over 
the join with a hot wet knife, and flattening the top 
(and, if liked, the sides, according to the shape you 
want your border) with the same knife. Brush it 
over with beaten egg, and bake a light golden brown 
in the oven. To dish it slip a palette knife between 
it and the tin, and slide it gently on to the dish, so 
as not to break it. If using one of the long narrow 
entre*e dishes, you leave this border quite straight* 






Fig. 17. Fi «- 18 - 

instead of rounding ifc. A hot rice border is made in 
two ways: either the rice is plainly cooked, and 
piled loosely round the dish, as for curry, or it is 
moulded. For this latter boil the rice in the usual 
way, till tender, but do not dry it; then press it 
tightly into a well buttered mould, cover it with a 
buttered paper, place another paper folded in the 
bain-marie pan, set the mould on this, and poach it 
in the bain-marie for half an hour or so, and then 
turn out. If to be used cold, cook some milk or 
stock in a well buttered pan (this prevents any risk of 
sticking), and when tiaia \a hot, \rofc not boiling, put 



ODDS AND ENDS. 227 

in the rice (alio wing 2oz. of Carolina rice to the half 
pint of liquid), bring to the boil, then keep it at 
simmering point from thirty to forty-fire minutes, 
till it has absorbed most, if not all, of the liquid, 
and is soft and plnmp, bat not cooked to a pap. It 
should be covered with a buttered paper, and the lid 
of the pan kept on whilst cooking, being careful 
that it does not catch. When done, add to it a tea- 
spoonful of cold water, or milk, and pour at once into 
a border mould previously well rinsed in cold water, 
and leave it i ill cold before turning it out. This is 
all the better for being iced. Another way to make 
rice border, or a centre for any dish, is to put the 
rice on with cold water enough to cover it well, and 
blanch it, then rinse in cold water, and return it to 
the pan with more cold water, cover with a buttered 
paper, bring to the boil, and then simmer it very 
slowly in the oven, or at the side of the stove, for 
two and a half to three hours, adding a little more 
water now and again, as required. When cooked 
and quite dry, pound it till quite smooth, and work 
it to a ball with your hands dipped in cold water 
(to avoid its sticking), dry well on a clean cloth, and 
press it tightly into a well buttered plain mould, and 
weight it down firmly till perfectly cold, when it can 
be turned out and used, or cut to any desired shape. 
The first method given can also be used cold, but 
must be turned out whilst hot. 

Breadcrumbs (Savoury). — Any odds and ends of 
stale bread should be put into the oven (carefully 
sorting the crumb from the crust), and thoroughly 
dried, without, however, letting it coloxuc % \\» \% \}wsel 



228 ENTRIES. 

crushed to a powder, sifted, and stored in wide- 
mouthed bottles tightly stoppered. These crumbs 
will be found far nicer for crumbing purposes than 
freshly made ones. When freshly grated crumbs 
are advised, they are often mixed with cheese, polt, 
pepper, parsley, &c. The usual proportions are loz. 
of freshly grated Parmesan cheese to 4oz. of bread- 
crumbs, and a plentiful seasoning of coralline 
pepper, salt, and minced parsley, to taste. 

Butters. — Savoury butters are much used in 
foreign kitchens, either as garnish, or to put the 
finishing touches to any delicate sauce. Hot Butter : 
For this purpose rub up a teaspoonful of either 
-cayenne, coralline pepper, curry powder, or mustard 
/flour with 5oz. to 6oz. of fresh butter, being careful 
•to get it to a perfectly smooth paste. Anchovy 
Butter : Pound six to eight well washed and boned 
anchovies (or, though not so good, an equivalent 
amount of anchovy p^ste or essence) to a smooth 
paste with a full ounce of fresh butter, seasoning it 
with a few drops of lemon juice. Horseradish Butter: 
Grate down as finely as possible some horseradish 
iand pound it to a smooth paste with an equal 
quantity of fresh butter, sieve it and finish off with 
a drop or two of chilli vinegar. Delicious with beef, 
hot or cold. Maitre <T Hotel Bvtter: Blanch and 
mince sufficient nice green parsley to fill a table- 
spoon, and pound it to a smooth paste with 2oz. or 
3oz. of butter, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, and a 
dust of white pepper. (Keep this in a cool place, 
and do not work it too much in the making.) Ham, 
Cayenne, Lobster, or Shrimp B»^pt > &c M may be all 



ODDS AND ENDS. 22? 

- made thus, and can be varied ad infinitum according 
to the materials at hand, and the use they are to be 
put to. 

Gaul, or Crepine. — Pieces of pig's caul (called in 
French crepine, whence the name of crepinettes applied 
to small entrees wrapped and cooked in pieces of the 
caul), used for wrapping little balls of forcement or 
other small entrees. This material should be weD 
washed and kept in salted cold water, when- it wiU 
last good for some days. 

Drie88auce8.— These most valuable additions to 
one's store-cupbo ird are the invention of Mv €L 
Driessens, a well-known French chef, who discovered 
the method of solidifying various white and browa 
sauces, so that they can be stored in air-tight tins or 
bottles for almost any time; and only need- the 
addition of water, according to the directions*, 
together with a little fresh minced parsley, &c, to* 
produce decidedly excellent brown and white sauces- 
af all kinds. These are invaluable in the countpy, asr 
impromptu dishes may be prepared at literally a few 
minutes' notice by their help. 

Dripping, to prepare, Sc. — Pour the dripping, if 
hot, into a saucepanful of boiling water; (if cold^ 
break it up in small pieces and put these in the- 
boiling water ;) let it boil up, and then boil for fifteen* 
minutes, stirring it now and again ; then pour it all 
into a large basin, and leave it till perfectly cold, 
when the dripping will have formed a thick, firm 
white cake, from the under side of which the im- 
purities, blacks, &c, can easily be scraped. Dripping 
thus prepared keeps well, and lh& o\£Xfc&s<CL <suci\fe 



230 ENTREES. 

repeated several times as long as the fat is not 
allowed to burn. It is more economical to let dripping 
cool before adding water, as it always contains a 
portion of rich gravy, which would be wasted if it is 
poured direct into the boiling water. 

D'Uxelles Mixture. — This is prepared by frying 
together equal parts of mushrooms and parsley, a 
third of shallot or chives, and a little truffle (all 
minced separately), in fresh butter, seasoning it with 
salt, pepper, and a very tiny grate of nutmeg ; stir 
this all over the fire for five minutes, then stir to it 
a large wineglassful of light French wine (or use 
the same quantity of sherry and water), previously 
reduced to half by sharp boiling ; mix with the yolk 
of an egg and a dash of lemon juice. This mixture 
is often used as a garnish, and also as an addition to 
sauces, e.g., add a tablespoonful of the d'Uxelles to 
Half a pint of veloute*, be'chamel, or allemande, for a 
white d'Uxelles, or the same amount of mixture to 
Brown or espagnole sauce, for a brown one ; either 
aire then known as Sauce d' TJxelles, or aux fines 
herbes. 

Farce, or Stuffing. — Farces are of various kinds: 
For instance, beef farce; pound 5oz. of panade, add 
to it 5oz. of minced and pounded beef, and pound 
the two well together, adding in loz. of fresh butter, 
liwo or three raw egg yolks, pepper and salt, and a little 
coralline pepper ; sieve it, and use. If required for 
a/ border, 2oz. or 3oz. more each of beef and panade 
may be added to the above proportions. Veal, 
rabbit, or chicken farce is prepared in exactly the 
skme way; Liver farce is muta \^ feysa% tass&thar 



ODDS AND ENDS. 231 

£lb. of liver (calf, game, or poultry livers may be 
used), with 4oz. each of fat bacon and white meat, 
all cut into dice, in an ounce of butter, or marrow 
fat, with two bay leaves, two or three sprays of 
thyme and parsley, salt, coralline and black pepper ; 
fry it all for five minutes, then whilst hot, pound it 
to a smooth paste, sieve it, and mix into this puree 
two or three minced button mushrooms, or truffles, 
and one raw egg yolk, and use. (This is sufficient 
farce for four pigeons.) The delicacy of this depends 
naturally on the materials used, game and poultry 
livers mixed with chicken or rabbit meat being 
especially dainty. Foie gras farce is simply pdtS 
de foie gras truffe, rubbed through a sieve, and if 
liked mixed with some truffles cut into dice. Herb 
farce, used for veal, hare, Ac, is made by mixing 
together 4>z. freshly made breadcrumbs, 2oz. finely 
chopped beef suet, a tabiespoonful of minced mixed 
herbs, two whole raw eggs, with pej>per and salt to 
taste. Tiny balls of this last farce, rolled in flour, 
may be boiled gently in boiling water for ten minutes 
or so ; or if preferred may be rolled in flour, dipped 
in beaten egg, and then into freshly made bread- 
crumbs, and fried a pale gold colour, as a garnish 
for any hare entree. 

Garnishes. — This is a word roughly applied to any 
addenda served with a dish, and includes vegetables, 
sauce, &c. It is, however, more particularly applied 
to small ragouts, or mixtures of various kinds of 
meat, fish, vegetable, &c, tossed in some rich and 
appropriate sauce, and served with the dish in 
question. The best known of these are : Chipolata. 



282 ENTRIES. 

— Stir together an equal number of chestnuts 
(blanched, and stewed in stock till tender), mush- 
rooms (wiped and peeled), small cooked carrots (or 
pieces of carrot cut into the size of small corks), 
turnips (similarly treated), and tiny chipolata 
sausages (these are really nothing but very deli- 
cately made and tiny sausages, rather highly 
seasoned with spice, &c., cooked and skinned after 
cooking), in a little thick espagnole sauce, till hot. 
Financiere. — Equal quantities of sliced truffles, 
cockscombs, mushrooms, and small quenelles, 
heated in a rich espagnole or Mad&re sauce ; 
if heated in a rich veloute or bechamel sauce, this 
garnish is called a la Toulouse. Flamande. — Carrots, 
turnips (if small whole, quartered if large), small 
onions, and small quartered cabbages, stewed in stock 
with a little salt pork or bacon, or bacon rind, and 
some sausages, till tender ; then carefully freed from 
fat and the bacon rind, and served with the sausages 
sliced and the bacon cut into di6e, as a garnish for 
braised fillets, &c. Godard. — Equal parts of sliced 
truffles, any kind of dainty game or poultry 
quenelles, and pieces of sliced sweetbread heated 
in espagnole or Richelieu sauce strongly flavoured 
with essence of mushrooms and champagne. 
Italienne. — Minced sweetbread, mushrooms, and 
fried ham, served in white or brown Italienne 
sauce. Jardiniere: Equal parts of cooked and 
nicely trimmed cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, and 
twice the quantity of braised carrots, well drained 
and glazed with a little good demi-glace ; this is the 
strictly correct version, but mixed vegetable garnishes 



ODDS AND ENDS. ttftt 

of any kind are frequently served by thix uiumi, 
though, if drained, mixed, and served either with 
white or brown sauce, or, if cold, with a vintutjrrtfa k 
they are called wtacedoine* Julienne is ciotnpoa««ii| of 
a variety of cooked and well drained vngulahlu* 
shred into long thin slips, then tostied in ImMtn ami 
a very little caster sugar till glazed. Matuu<IU Of 
this there are two kinds, the first bmng mado of 
sliced foie gras, minced truffles previously roolmd in 
sherry or Madeira, and a good spoonful of d'li ihIIm* 
mixture, heated in cither espagnole or Iticlmltni m\ \ ru 
This is, abroad, served with ^anm, for ttlmdi, 
however, it would be too strongly flu vol mid foi moot, 
English tastes. The second form in simply rln *t 
nuts blanched and delicately stowed fill fmid<o in <niy 
rich wine-flavoured brown sauce. MilannUtt. i <« » * I, «d 
macaroni mixed with Allotted chickuti, truNIn*, urnl 
mushrooms, well strewed with grittwl nhmwi, Mint 
moistened with either espagnole or toimilo cm mm 
Montglas: A mixture of shred ekickoii, tongmi, mid 
sliced truffles heated in any rich Milium to t &*!.<:, amiKi 
people adding to it minced swootbtvad or sljiwd fold 
gras. Reform. — Cooked truffles, ham, ami hard 
boiled eggs, cut into Julienne strips, and \uh\\va\ \\\ 
Reform sauce. Valenciennee. — A mi* turn of moo hod 
artichoke bottoms, minced chicken ami lohstur (or 
prawns), mushrooms, and rice, tossed in a vu-U whita 
Indienne sauce. 

Gelatine. — When this is used, only th* htj*t 
quality should be chosen, as only in thin way ran 
the disagreeable gluey flavour, so noticeable) in 
inferior gelatines, be avoided. All the recipes in this 



234 ENTRIES. 

book have been given on the supposition that Mrs. 
A. B. Marshall's leaf gelatine is used, as this, in 
addition to its undoubted and guaranteed strength 
and purity, needs no previous soaking, dissolving 
very readily in a very little hot liquid. Where other 
gelatines are used a previous soaking in cold water 
is always necessary, and nearly half as much again 
in quantity should be used. Whenever gelatine is 
used the utmost care should be taken to have it 
thoroughly dissolved, for if not, it will coagulate and 
form gluey lumps through the mixture, giving a 
disagreeable, raw, and gluey flavour to the whole 
thing; a flavour, moreover, generally laid to the 
account of the gelatine, whereas it is most usually 
the result of carelessness on the cook's part. 

Macaroni, to Boil. — The great thing to remember 
about this is that macaroni must be put on in plenty 
•of boiling water and kept at the boil all the time it 
is cooking, adding sufficient salt with the macaroni. 
Directly the paste is cooked dash into the saucepan 
•containing it a tumbler or more of ice cold water to 
throw it off the boil, and drain off the macaroni at 
once. It is difficult to say how long it will take to 
-cook, as this depends a good deal on the size and 
quality of the macaroni itself. From twenty to 
thirty minutes, however, is a fair guide; but the 
best way is to try it by biting a morsel of it. If it 
bites soft, yet short, it is cooked, and the sooner it 
leaves the pan the better. In England macaroni is 
systematically overcooked, when it is woolly and 
pappy. All macaronis and pastes are cooked thug, 
and too much water, cannot ta g^exu 



ODDS AND ENDS. 235 

Olives em BagouL — Turn or stone eighteen or 
twenty fine olives, put them into a pan with sufficient 
good stock to cover them, add half a wineglassf ul of 
sherry, three or four drops of essence of anchovy, 
and stew them gently at the side of the firo in a 
tightly covered pan for about half an hour. 

Panade. — Boil half a pint of water with a pineh 
of salt and loz. of butter, and when boiling well 
sift in four large tablespoonfuls of fine Hour, and 
cook on the stove for five minutes or so, stirring it 
occasionally to keep it smooth, and prevent itw 
catching. Use when cool. 

Quatre fipices. — This is a flavouring powder nun In 
by sifting together loz. each of powdered cinnamon, 
nutmeg, and black pepper with Joz. of cloven, and 
storing this in a tightly stoppered bottle. 

Bice. — Almost every cook has his or her own way 
of boiling this ; the two following inethodn are given 
from long and successful use. The firnt in Indian. 
Pick over and well wash the rice, then put it into a 
pan with a pinch of salt, and a liberal allowance of 
cold water, say, a full quart to {\b. of rice. Hring 
this water to the boil gently, and when it boils up 
the rice should be cooked ; now drain off the water, 
return the pan and the rice to the lire for a minute 
or two, and stir it gently with a fork to get all tin* 
grains of rice separate and dry. Or : put into a pan 
£lb of rice with sufficient cold water to cover it, and 
a pinch of salt ; bring it sharply to the boil, then 
drain off the rice, rinse it well in more cold water, 
qnd return it to the fire with about three pints of 
failing water, and cook it steadily for twelve to 



236 ENTRIES. 

fifteen minutes ; now turn it into a colander, drain 
off all the hot water, and pour a little hot water 
over to rinse it well; then throw a doubled cloth 
over the colander and let it all stand for an hour or 
so by the fire. For rice to be served thus, Patna iff 
the best, as Carolina, though quite as nice to taste, 
does not look so well. Rice can be served in a 
variety of ways as an adjunct for all sorts of dishes, 
e.g., Coralline rice : To rice boiled as above add a. 
good piece of butter (2oz. for a good sized dish) 
melted, with a very little salt, and a goodly pro- 
portion of coralline pepper, and toss the rice in this 
till it becomes of a delicate terra cotta shade. 
Curried rice : To lib. of boiled rice add a couple of 
spoonfuls of tomato conserve or puree, and half a 
pint of good curry sauce ; stir this all well together, 
dry it by the fire for a little, and serve with 
quartered hardboiled eggs and seasoned watercress. 
Tomato rice : Cook the rice in any nice stock (meat 
or vegetable) with an onion, a bouquet of herbs, a. 
bay leaf, some peppercorns, cloves, and a tiny blade 
of mace, till cooked. Now take away the herbs, 
bay leaf , and onion, and mix into the rice about half 
a pint of tomato pure*e, conserve, or pulp, and 
garnish with rings of onion fried a golden brown 
and crisp, in oil or butter. Savoury rice : Blanch 
£lb. of rice, drain and cover with weak white stock 
of any kind (that made from mutton shank bones 
is excellent), bring it very gently to the boil, then 
add a teaspoonful of salt, half as much of sugar, 
loz. minced onion, cayenne to taste, and just as much 
saffron as will colour it nicely (thaWt^oy is to dry a' 



ODDS AND ENDS. 237 

little saffron in tke oven, and then powder it down), 
etii in a small piece of butter, and let it cook gently 
till the liquid is all absorbed by the rice ; now turn 
it out on a hot dish, and garnish with strips of red 
chillies, chopped ham or tongue, rings of fried onion, 
shredded chicken, sliced sausage, &c, to taste, 
according to what you have at hand, and use. This 
can manifestly be varied in many ways. 

Sauce* to Tammy. — Tammy cloth is a loosely woven 
""oollen material used for straining the sauce or liquid 




required. The word is said to be derived from the 
French iamis, a very fine sieve. There are two methods 
of tammying, the first (Fig. 19) is by two persons 
holding the material firmly at each end, and twisting 
or wringing the cloth in opposite directions; the second 
(Fig. 20) is also done by two persons, each having a 
spoon in one hand, and the end of the cloth in the 
©ther.and keeping their spoons together, working them 
backwards and forwards with a regular rhythmical 
action that forces the sauce through the meshes of the 



238 



ENTRIES. 



cloth. Nothing gives such a velvety substance to 
sauces as either of these processes, which, however, 
are only possible in a household where the services 
of a kitchenmaid or helper can be secured. For 
singlehanded cooks the only resource is either a fine 
hair sieve or the French tamis-pressoir. 

Truffles, to Cook. — Put a dozen fine fresh and well 
cleansed truffles in a pan with sufficient sherry or 




Pig. 20. 

madeira to cover them, with a pinch each of salt and 
pepper, and cook them gently till tender ; now stir in 
half an ounce of glaze, let this melt well, then drain 
off the truffles, keeping them very hot ; add an ounce 
of butter to the wine, and boil it up sharply till 
somewhat reduced, when you pour it over the 
truffles and serve. Truffles cooked thus may be 
heated in any rich brown sauce to taste, the wine in 
which they are cooked being added to the sauce. 



INDEX 



Aspic, 8, 153, 221 
a la jnive, 170 
„ menagere, 169 
„ royale, 168 
cream, 223 

de t. ani hnitres, 169 
de tomates, 168 
en belle me, 167 
tomato, 223 
Attelets, 136 
Bain-marie, 223 
Ballotines, de vol., 28, 101 
Barding-, 26 
Batter (frying), 102, 125, 224 

(pancake), 225 
Bear, to marinade, 31 
Beigneta de foie gras, 224 

de gras doable, 103 
Blanching regs., &c, 224 
Blanqnette, 6, 137 
Bobotjea, 137 
Border farce, 69 
potato, 225 
rice, 228 
Boadina and boudinettes, 70 
a la Czarina, 71 
„ Prins Karl, 71 
„ Richelieu, 73 



240 INDEX. 

Breadcrumbs (savoury), 227 

Breast of mutton a la Marseilla se, 113 

Burdwan stew, 138 

BUTTKR8, 228 

anchovy, 228 

cayenne, 223 

ham, 228 

horseradish, 228 

hot, 228 

lobster, 228 

maitre dTiotel, 228 

Perigord, 26 

shrimp, 223 
Caisses a la Whitstable, 183 
Caneton a 1 'indicia, 104 

en mayonnaise, 161, 173 
Cannelons, 138 
Case?, 128 
Cassorole of rice, 98 
Cassettes meringuees, 132, 138 
Caul, 229 

C61£ri a l'espagnole, 31 
Cervelles frites, 109 
Chafing dish, 11 
Chauteoix, 8, 152-155 

de faisan, 176 

a Tindienne, 176 

a la paysanne, 177 

de mauviettes, 176 

„ perdreaux, 177 

„ vol. a la Marie, 178 

„ „ „ Carlton, 178 

„ „ Pompadour, 178 

„ aux conoombres 179 
Cherry salad, 182 
Cold entries, 3, 152 
Cones, 139 



INDEX. $4] 






CoquiUes, 163, 165 

de vol. en may, 183 

Creams, 66, 67 

Cr4me a la Francillon, 74 
Monza, 76 
reine, 74 
aux tomates, 181 
de riz de veau, 75 

Crepine, 229 

Crepinettes, 72 

a la d'Estine, 76 
„ favorite, 77 

Croquettes, 128-131 

de bceuf a la Mil., 139 

Croustades, 88, 89 

a la Champenoise, 94 
„ chasseur, 96 

Croutons, 82, 88 

Custards (savoury), 77 

Cutlets, 13, 35, 40 
to braise, 39 
„ broil, 17, 35 
„ coat, 141 
„ egg and crumb, 37 
„ saut£, 18 
„ stew, 18 
,, trim, 13 
for invalids, 19 
a la Bretonne, 36 
„ Chipolata, 36 
„ financiere, 36 
„ Maintenon, 39 
„ Mancelle, 36 
„ Marechale, 36 
„ Marquise, 38 
„ Milanaise, 36 
„ orientale, 36 



242 INDEX 

Cutlets (Continued)— 
a la Palestine, 36 

„ Parmesane, 38 

„ Beform, 37 

„ "Rothschild, 40 

„ Smyrniote, 36 

„ Soubise, 36 

„ Soyer, 38 

„ Tonlonse, 36 

„ Valenciennes, 36 

„ Viennoise, 36 

„ Villeroi,39 
aux petits pois, 39 
en robe de chambre, 37 
„ chanfroix a l'Amerioaine, 176 



»! » 


o> u> v/v/xiximujjxib, lev 


»» »> 


„ fermiere, 175 


» it 


„ Pompadour, 176 


»» » 


„ Basse, 175 


*» >» 


„ St. Garat, 176 


J* »» 


„ Belle vue, 176 


egg, 154 




de pigeons 


, Ac, 28, 51, 53 


»> »» 


a la Chipolata, 52 


>» a 


„ d'Uxelles, 51 


n »» 


„ Flamande, 52 


f> »» 


,, Milanaise, 52 


n *» 


„ Moderne, 52 


»> » 


„ Montglas, 52 


»> »> 


en caisses, 140 


»» »» 


sur oroutes, 101 



veal, 45-47 
Demi-glace, 37 
Driessauoes, 229 
Dripping, 229 
D'Uxellea, 39, 107, 230 
Egg plant, stuffed, 114 



INDEX. 243 

Emincl de boeuf a l'ltalienne, 121 
„ „ aux tomates, 117 
Entrees en aspic, 152, 159 
Ifpigrammes en chau., 180 
Escaloppes, 16, 21, 26, 32 

de lievre aux cerises, 44, 55 
„ foie gras, 33 
Earce, 71, 105, 128, 171, 230 
Eilets, 21, 26, 32, 35 
Contises, 33 
mignons, 16, 29, 50 
de bceuf a la bearnaise, 41 
„ „ chasseur, 43 

Chateaubriand, 43 
Emplreur, 42 
Grande Bretagne, 44 
intendante, 41 
Nemours, 44 
Perigeux, 44 
Raifort aux ceufs, 43 
Riga, 4 1 
St. James, 44 
Viennoise, 48 
aux orevettes, 42 
au gratin, 46 
„ huitres, 41 
fourres, 44 

de chevreuil a la daupbine, 54 
„ grouse aux champignons, 54 
„ lipereau a la friande, 57 
„ „ „ Horti, 60 

.,, lievre aux cerises, 162 
„ „ „ olives, 57 
„ sanglier a la Fre'de'rio le grand, 55 
4t veau bordelaise, 46 
„ volaille, 26, 27 
„ „ a rAmbassadrice, 49 



a 


U 


w 


*» 


9> 


it 


it 


ti 


11 


11 


it 


l» 


11 


» 


» 


If 


>* 


it 


it 


11 


it 


aui 


it 


au 


tt 


»» 



» 


»> 


»» 


» 


II 


99 


w 


n 



244 INDEX. 

Filets (Continued) — 

de volaille, a la Cardinal, 49 
„ „ „ 6carlate, 49 

„ „ anx huitres, 49 

en supreme, 7, 27, 51, 5& 
„ anx truffes, 51 
„ a l'ivoire, 51 
„ a la royale, 51 
,, „ „ chanfroix, 157 

„ „ „ a l'Amlricaine, 15& 

Foie gras en aspic, 183 
„ ,, esc, 33 
„ „ beignets, 103 
de yean a la broche, 108 
„ en hatelets, 108 
„ „ caisses, 109 
„ a l'ltalienne, 82, 38 
„ a la Ljonnaise, 58 
„ „ menagere, 59 
Fricassee, 8, 117 
Villeroi, 142 
Friodt de riz de vean, 142 
Fritters, 123-126 
Fritnre, 123-125 
Gabnish, 16, 21, 22, 25, 29., 23) 
Chipolata, 231 
Financiere, 232 
Flamande, 232 
Godard, 232 
Italienne, 232 
Jardiniere, 233 
Julienne, 233 
Mancelle, 233 
Hilanaise, 283 
Montglas, 233 
Reform, 233 
Toulouse, 232 
Valenciennes, 23$ 



INDEX 245 



Gelatine, 8, 9, 283 

Glaze, 210 

Gras double (see tripe) 

Gratin, 117, 119 

Grenadine, 16, 20, 22, 29 

Gnlasch, 47 

Hare, to fillet, 29, 33 

to marinade, 30 
Hash, 11, 176 
lee border, or tray, 158 
Jelly (savoury), 159, 186 
Kromeakis, 127, 143 
Kew mince, 143 
" Lames," 32 
Langne de boeuf en papillotes, 107 

„ „ a lltalienne, 107 
Lapin en matelotte, 59 

an Pere Donillet, 60 

en fricassee, 156 
Larding, 23, 26 

„ noedles, 24 
Larks (see Manyiettes) 
Liquid glaze, 43 
Macaroni, to cook, 234 
Marinade, 19, 20 

for bear, 31 

for beef, 29 

for mutton, 29 

cooked, 30 
Manyiettes a la Favre, 104 

a la Tavernay, 114 

en oaisses, 105 
Mayonnaise, 152-154, 160 

Tomato, 161 

of dnck, 161 
Mldaillons, 16, 21-29 
Mince, 119 ' 



246 INDEX. 

Mi roto n de boeuf, 143 
a la chasseur, 145 
„ diable, 146 
„ japonaise, 145 
„ minute, 146 
„ tartare, 146 
aux choux, 145 
„ oroutes, 144 
„ gratin, 144 
„ tomates, 144 
Mousses, 64-66 
Noisettes, 16, 17, 21, 26, 40, 43 

en ohaufroix, 17 
Nouilles, 93 
Ob'veau, 147 
Oaves, to cook, 235 
aux huttres, 147 
(beef), 112 
Omelettes fourrles, 131 
Onions stuffed, 151 
Orlies, 127 
Ox palates, 109 

al'Orlio, 110 
„ au kari, 110 
„ en cannelons, 110 
„ „ hatelets, 110 

„ „ paupiettes a la financiere, 110 

tails, 111 

„ a la Ste. Menehould, ill 
„ au gratin, 112 
Pains, 70-79 

de vol. au foie gras, 70-81 
de foie au lard, 71 
a la Nemours, 80 
de lievre, 80 
de bloassines, 81 
Panade, 69, 235 



INDEX 247 



Pancakes or pannequets, 130 
Papillottes, 17, 19, 128 

a la d'Uxelles, 128 
Paste, nonilles, 93 

timbale, 86 
Patties, 84, 132 
Paupiettes, 131 
Potato, ragout, 147 
Poulet Chipolata, 148 

aux champignons, 148 

Cocasse, 149 

a i'estragon, 148 

en ch. a la prinoesse, 179 

en puree, 149 

al'Orlic, 150 

en aspic, 157, 159 
Quails in aspic, 8 

a la Castillane, 174 

en chaufroix, 171 

en cdtelettes, 25 

en delices, 170 
Quatre Apices, 235 
Quenelles, 66-72 

fourrees, 69 

de grouse a la Windsor, 81 

de lapin a la Sevigne, 82 
Babbit, Ac, to fillet, 29-33 
Raviolis, 93 
Rechauffe^, 10.12, 116 
Bice to cook, 235 

coralline, 236 

curried, 236 

savoury, 236 

tomato, 236 
Bis de veau, 31, 32 

a la ohinoise, 184 

an beurre Montpellier, 184 



248 INDEX. 

Bis en ehanfroix, 184 

Rissoles, 128 

Roulade en aspic, 181 
-jardiniere, 181 

Rom, 81, 189-191, 201 

Salmi de perdreaux en oh., 184 

Salpicon, 127 

Sauces, 3-7, 189 

AHemande, 6, 192-195 
an benrre d'anchois, 203 
Blarnaise, 214 
Bechamel, 4, 6, 192-193 

maigre, 196 
Bigarade, 208 
Blanquette, 6, 196 
Bordelaise, 42, 209 
Bonrgnignonne, 209 
Bretonne, 7, 201, 203 
Brown, 5, 7, 192-193, 201 
Bntter, 213 
Cambridge, 24, 219 
Caper, 207 
Cazanova, 24, 219 
Champagne, 211 
Chateaubriand, 209 
Chaufroix, 8, 215 

„ red, green, Ac, 215 
Chevrenil, 206 
Chntney, 7, 204 
Claremont, 204 
Corniohons, 204 
Crapandine, 204 
a la creme, 196 
,, e8tragon, 197 
„ fenonil, 197 
„ champignons, 197, 204 
„ ooncombrw, 197 



HE" • . j_T?— .* •. 



•>■»■ 



-fc*ezL-.-,ri»-. 






— — ' n*-<im * -/.C • —» * 



■^■•wn-v -* . 2f..-.2L_ 



m. 



TTS . i^T* 



~ .w* -~ liCT?*^.. . 2? 



-Tfili-JUi 






Vn.-tt- _'i -it*-. -20( 
T»iJiTrrTmai.a. .23 i 

"Mimna-lrsf-.. li*£ 
Iffinx. £37 

MdEny,19? 

XspoEtaiiHv, ft, 1 155* 

t 



250 INDEX. 

Sauces (Continved) — 
Pascaline, 6, 195 
Parisienne, 212 
Perigeux, 7, 212 
Piqnante, 212 
Poivrade, 205, 212 
Portuguaite (brown), 207 

(white), 195 
Poulette, 195, 196 
Eaifort, 199 
Ravigotte, 199 
Reduction (de), 203 
Reform, 212 
Remouladc, 219 
Richelieu. 182, 21S 
Robert, 206, 213 
St. Hubert, 213 
Soubise, 200 
Suedoise, 219 
Supr&me, 50, 157, 201 
Tartare, 219 
Tomate, 207 

„ a la may, 208- 
Voloute, 4, C, 192 
Villeroi, 19, 195 
to clear of fat, 198 
to tammy, 237 
Scalloped meat, 131 
Silver dishes, to save, 118- 
Souffles, 61-64 
a la baronne, 78 

„ bourgeoise, 63 

„ royale, 78 

„ Victoria, 79 

„ glace, 163 
moulds to paper, 62. 
pheasant, 78 



INDEX. 251 



Souffles {Continued) — 

proportions for, 61 

to cook, 65 
Sweetbreads {see Ris de veau) 
Timbales, 84-88 

milanaise, 93 

napolitaine, 93 

nouilles anx huitres, 97 
,, aux jambon, 96 

paste, 86 

polenti 94 

Pompadour, 185, 18S 

raviolis, 93 

romana, 93 
T ornate* nl^eriennes, 185 
Tomatoes stuffed, 11 1, 150 
Tournedos, 23, 25 

„ aux huitres, 24 

Tonrte bourgeoise, 87, 92 
" Tranches," 32 

do langue a Vicariate, 185 
Trimmings, 194 
Tripe (grtis double), 103 
„ flitters, 103 
„ a l'eco^saihe, 103 
„ a la fran;aise, 104 
„ a l'Orlie, 103 
., a la Souhise, 103 
Tinfflee, to cook, 65, 238 
Turban de foie gras, 186 
Turnovers, 132 
Veal a la bordelaise, 46 
cases, 26 
collops, 103 
cutlets, 45 
noisettes, 45 
to cook, 26 



252 INDEX. 

Venison to marinade, 29-31 
Vol au Vent, 84 
a la Barras, 90 
financiere, 89 
Lncullu8, 90 
„ menagere, 91 
„ milanaise, 90 
„ Montglas, 90 
royale, 90 
Valenciennes, 90 
aux crevettes, 90 

„ hultres,90 
de homard a la creme, 90 
"Wiener Schnitzel, 47 
Zephyres, 64 









&&vz> 



■fte Series consists of t!je following: 

SilUMi 

ICES. 

PICKLES AWD PHESZZRVES, 

UXAT AMD OAME. 
HWEETS-Pirt 1. 
„ Put II. 

BBEAXFAST A»D LtmTOH DISHES. 
8ALAM, SAHDWICHBS, AMD BAVOUIlIBa. 
VEGET ABLES. 

BBJtAS, CAKES, AHD BISCUITS. 
»ISH-Pa« I. 

„ Part H. (Cold Slab). 
HOUSEHOLD HIWT8. 



"«#* 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



TEE " QUEEN »' COOKEEY BOOKS. 



THE "QUEEI" COOKERY BOOKS 



No. 6. 

SWEETS. 

(PART I.) 



COLLBCTID AND DCBOHIIHtll ItY 



S. BEATY-POWNAJ.h, 

Departmental Editor ** Houfewifo and OuiMlii0," i^u^^n Mmw»|(M)'H^, 
and Author of " A liouk of NtttiflHH," 



THIRD BDITION, 



LCJNDON I 

HORACE COX, 

**QUEEN" OFFICE, WlKUBOJi «0U««, 
BBEAH'B BUILDINGS, E.C. 



' THK XKW YORK 




ASTOvl, nTTxPX AND 

TILDEN FOUNDATIONS 

B 1946 r 



LONDON : 
FRIXTBD BT HORAGI OOX, WINDfOB H0U8K BBBAM*S BUTLDINO 



^ PEEFAOE. 



,x Little, if any, originalitj i» aUiim^A Utr i\ui 

following recipes, most of wbi/^b hA\t$ H,\timH,fti(\ in 

•the Cookery columns of iha Qtumi. thirin^ (tb^* 

last eight or nine years, from whtsnfM ihty \m¥(i 

been collected at the re(\\\mi of umny r^m^UtfH of 

the Queen, to save reference to \mik nHm\f*irH mi 

"^always within reach. Additiorml fMsiimn bfttr^, bow- 

S ever, been given, to bring tbw Uttb^ work hm miUih 

^up to date as possible; but all Hutrntf likit^ i\i4i 

X previous ones, have been carefully UsuiMtip h,wi urtt 

» all (as I know from practical ^xiHsrmutM) w«U wiiUln 

5 the capacity of any ordinary ** j(0^>4 (>laiM iutok/* 

T gifted with fair intelligence an^l a liiiUs jjfoodwHb 

^I desire also to take tbi» opportunity of tuikiUfW' 

ledging my indebtedness to the VH^rUmn autl»/>ni of 

standard foreign cookery bookn, and alii^> Ut nthr 

my grateful thanks to Mrs, A« B, MarMliall, and 

several other well-known cbcfM, wYumt VitxAnmn 

has so materially helped and rendered ixmu\h\ei my 

work in these last years. 

8. Beatt-Powvall. 
May, 1904. 



DELIGHTS 



WHITE 

CLOVER 

HONEY. 

Speoioll; geleoted from the 
beet Apiariea, and de- 
olared b; oomioiaaenrs to 
be the finest EDglisIi 
Honaj BTBr introduced 
to tha pnblio. Each jar 
besFE over theoapnBED 
Guarantee Label with 
tbe words, " Guaranteed 
Pnra Eog-lish Hoiioy," 
witbout wbioh, and the 
re^at^red picture label, 
none is genuine. 
Sold in lib. and 21b. BUsi 
Jarg at li. or 3b. b; the 
ninal dealeri, or a la. Jar 
will be lent direct A:om the 
bctor; for stamps, Is. 3d. 

CHEESECAKE CURDin Jara.ts. and 2S. 
ORANGE BUTTER, in Jars, ejd. and tS. 

Free Sihpt.is ot iha Cbeesecslie Ovrd and Oruge Buller sent on glvlni 




SOLE MlENBS (Nn i'MOFRIBTOHB: 

mfRINO A CO., Ltd., BrlBBt Uneo\n«Vi\T%. 



COl!TTEl!TTS. 



CHAPTEB L FA/i« 

Pies and Tarts 1 

CHAPTEB n. 

Pies and Tarts (Continued) 20 

CHAPTEB IIL 

Pancakes, Fritters, Ac 35 

CHAPTEB IV. 

Castards and Creams (H> 

CHAPTEB V. 
Puddings ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 65 

CHAPTEB VI. 

Puddings (Continued) ... ... ... ... ... 78 

CHAPTEB VII. 
Puddings, Nursery ... ... ... ... ... ... 96 

CHAPTEB VIII. 
Q&teaux ... ... ... ... ... ... ...113 



AdverUtemenU. 







By Appointment to the 
KINO and the Prince of 




i?^^M ^ Wales. 

Cbltnaii's 

-^^^*' D. S. F. 

MUSTARD. 



» name is on the Tin. 



CORN FLOUR. 

Par Blanc Manges. Custards, &c. 

Self-Rising 
Flour. 

'^ Par Bread, Pastry, Cikca, PuddlDp, 

ScDoeB, &c. 



/ 



SWEETS. 



^J«?c 



CHAPTER I. 

PIES AND TAETS, 

Pbobably in no country is the sweet course a more 
integral part of the daily menu than in England, 
and possibly no form of " sweet " is more popular 
than the pie or tart, with its well-made pastry. There 
is a certain doubt as to what constitutes the 
difference between pies and tarts, but, roughly 
speaking, it may be decided thus : A pie is a sweet 
dish containing fruit of some kind and covered over 
with pastry, whilst the tart is an uncovered pie with 
a layer of pastry under, but not over, it. In support 
of this theory it may be noticed that old-fashioned 
cookery books always speak of paste-covered fruit as 
** apple pie," ** cherry pie," " mince pie," &c., whereas 
when they mention a tart it is invax^afcV^ \is^';sRri<et'^^. 
Moreorer, we still speak, oi *'m\sictfc ^ves^"*"* ^>2q^ 



2 SWEETS. 

" pudding ** or " Lent pies," though, naturally, every- 
thing else baked in a patty pan is entitled tart or 
tartlet. Accepting this definition, therefore, let us 
begin by describing the method of making the paste 
which plays so important a part in these dishes. 
Eoughly speaking, pastry in England may be divided 
into puff and short pastry, the difference between 
these two consisting in the fact that for puff pastry 
the flour and the liquid are made into a dough first 
and the butter then worked into it; whereas, for 




Fig. 1. 



short paste, the flour and butter are rubbed together 
and afterwards worked into a dough by means of the 
liquid used. Besides these two kinds, there are suet 
paste, brioche, and choux paste, besides one or more 
forms of pastry, which will, however, be mentioned 
later. First we will give the puff paste as used for 
the highest class of pastry, when it is known as 
feuilletage paste. For this you require the finest 
flour, Hungarian or Viennese for choice (and this 
must be well dried and siited\ asi^ ^<& \«»\. \x«^&l 






PIES AND TABTS. 8 

batter. Pour tbe flour ont in a heap on the pastry 
board or marble slab (this is not a very expensive 
luxury, and where pastry is much used should always 
be available), and make a hollow in the centre with 
your knuckles, as in Pig. 1. This is called making a 
" bay " in the flour. Now pour into this bay about 
|oz. of salt for each pound of flour, and add very 
gradually waUar enough to bring it all to a firm, 
workable dough. The method is to pour in the 
water a yery little at a time, working the flour into 
this water very evenly by using the fingers of one 
hand with a kind of circular movement in the inside 
of the bay, working down more and more flour 
as you add more water, till you have drawn it all 
down and worked it to a dough that wiU neither 
stick to the hands nor the table. Then cover this 
paste with a cloth and let it stand for ten minutes or 
so to settle. Now dredge the slab lightly with very 
dry flour by means of the dredger (unless the flour 
in the dr^ger is looked after and kept very dry, 
it will clog the sieve-like holes at the top), then lay 
the ball of dough on this and roll it out quickly and 
steadily into a square about ^in. thick. Meanwhile, 
take an equal weight of fresh butter (that has been 
well washed in cold water and then thoroughly 
kneaded and pressed in a clean cloth to get rid of as 
much of the moisture as possible), and pat this 
out into a square shape ; place it in the centre of the 
rolled out paste as in Pig. 2, and fold the ends over 
neatly till the butter is perfectly inclosed. Now roll 
it out very evenly, pushing flour and butter well 
forward as you roll, keeping it all la a strip about 

B 2 



4 SWEETS. 

Jin. tliick. It should measure as nearly as possible 
twice its breadth, i.e., if 12iii. broad it should be 24in. 
long. Now fold it over evenly into three, and again 
roll it out into a long strip as before, keeping it even 
and regular in shape. Then fold it up into three 
again and put it aside in a cool place for ten 



Sa^te^ 




Tig. 2. 

minutes or so, to " rest," as it is technically called. 
This rolling out and folding is called " giving the 
pastry a turn." ¥or feuiUetage this paste may need 
SIX of these "turns," but, as a rule, five is seldom 
exceeded. The great art ia to Vftft^ tha butter from 
oscaping, which it ^W do \i l\i^ ^^"&\.^ \& \.wi ^1\^ ^t 



PIES AND TARTS. 5 

is rolled out too thinly, or not rolled out regularly. 
If the paste is not kept flat and even in the rolling 
it will not rise properly in the baking, but will have 
tough, hard streaks through it. The great secret in 
feuilletage making is care and exactness. The butter 
should be of the same consistency as the dough with 
which it is to be rolled, for, if harder, it will break 
through, whilst, if softer, it will get rolled into it, and 
in neither case will it attain to the flaky layers of 
crust risen evenly which are the glory of the French 
paste. The butter should, therefore, in summer be 
placed on ice to harden it, and in winter in a warm 
comer to soften it. The quantity of water to be 
added is another stumbling block, which, unfor- 
tunately, only experience can really clear away,, 
as some flour takes more moistening than others.. 
As a rough average you may reckon a gill of icy cold 
water to each pound of flour used. But this needs^ 
watching, because of the variations in the flour, and 
should be added very gradually as you work the- 
flour and water together. As puff pastry requires 
considerable practice it is well to begin with small 
quantities, say 2oz. or 3oz. each of butter and flour,, 
using water by the spoonful. After each folding 
the paste must be turned at right angles with its 
previous position (hence the name "turn"), always 
keeping the open edges of the paste towards you as 
you begin rolling. Keep the shape as even as 
possible, be particular in keeping the comers square, 
and, above all, see that the pressure of your hands on 
the roller is even. If the paste, as you roll it, sIlqti^ 
agns of curving at the edgea, it \a eTV!^<eYi\i ^<3Vi. ^x^ 



6 SWEETS. 

pressing heavier on the curving side than on the 
other. Watch also that the butter does not break 
through, especially in the first rolling out ; if it looks 
in the least like doing so, flour the place over lightly at 
once, and wind the paste round the roller at frequent 
intervals to see that it is not sticking to the board or 
slab, which must be kept lightly and frequently 
•dusted with fine sifted flour. Eemember, also, that 
after its last folding the paste must be rolled out to 
the thickness required. All these details will prob- 
ably seem over-minute to the amateur who has not 
tried puff pastry making, but unless care is bestowed 
on the i)oints mentioned, the pastry when made will 
be anything but a success. In fact, it is to careless- 
ness and inattention to detail that the awful failures 
80 often seen at our tables are due. A cook will 
often succeed the very first time she tries puff pastry, 
and then every subsequent attempt will be a dismal 
fiasco, to the astonishment of her mistress, who 
remembers her first success. The reason is simply 
that the first time she condescended to attend to the 
details given in her recipe; but the second and 
subsequent times she trusted to the great doctrine of 
" there, or thereabouts," with the usual result. 
Remember, in pastry (puff especially) making, 
coolness and cleanliness must be the rule. See that 
the water used is as cool as possible ; keep a basin of 
ice-cold water and a clean towel alongside, and cool 
the hands in this frequently. Have all your ingre- 
dients ready to hand, and be careful to use a straight 
rolling pin. A bulging one is certain to lead 
to uneven rolling and consequent iail\«ft. 



PIES AND TARTS. 7 

This is tlie French method for puff pastry, and is 
well worth the trouble of learning; it may be 
mentioned that butter is by no means indispensable 
for the process. M. XJrbain-DuboiSy Uie great 
French chef^ declares that, for summer use, beef suet, 
previously well picked over, soaked in fresh cold 
water, well drained, and then pounded to a firm, 
smooth paste, after which it can be worked in a cloth 
(as described for the butter), is often to be pre- 
ferred to butter, as the consistency is better. 
A little fine salad oil should be pounded into 
the suet to give it body; or half beef suet, half 
pure lard may be worked up together; whilst 
horresco ref evens ! some actual chefs and cordons hleux 
have been detected in the felonious act of making 
their best puff paste with delicately clarified 
dripping! The paste, moreover, being a great 
success. Pastry can also be made with fine salad 
oil, if for any reason the previous fats are rejected. 
For this you mix lightly together to a nice paste 
12oz. of fine flour, 2oz. of oil, the yolks of two eggs, 
and about two teaspoonfuls (small) of salt. When 
well worked together let it stand for ten minutes 
or so, then roll it out, as described above, when 
you brush it all over with more salad oil ; fold the 
paste up into three again and roll it out gently again, 
after which you fold it as before and set it aside 
to rest. Proceed thus until you have used about 
12oz. of oil, then use like any other paste. 

These are all French recipes ; the following are 
British, and very good, besides being 8imi;iler 8»^d 
more economical than the/euilletage ^\iv^ ^oviS^^ife 



8 SWEETS. 

reserved for high days and holidays, and certainly 
not be attempted till the cook has worked her way 
up from "short" and "flaky" to "rough puff 
paste " with entire success. 

Bough Puff Paste, — ^Make a pound of flour (with 
which you have sifted a small teaspoonf ul of salt) 
into a smooth lithe dough with the yolk of an 
egg and from one to one and a half gills of 
cold water; when this dough sticks neither to the 
hands nor to the board, flour the board and the 
rolliDg pin lightly, and roll out this dough into 
a long strip, keeping the edges very even, and 
rolling straight from you with an even onward move- 
ment. Never roll crooked, or from side to side, 
or the paste will not rise evenly. Have ready about 
12oz. of butter, lard, or half and half, divided 
into three portions, and dab one of these portions 
evenly in dots about the size of a hazel nut, over the 
surface of the dough, leaving about an inch margin 
all round. Now roll up the paste exactly as if it 
was a roly-poly pudding, draw it round with the 
open ends towards you, pressing it at the ends 
and once or twice across towards the centre with 
the rolling pin (to prevent the inclosed air all 
collecting in one spot) and then roll it out to a strip 
&8 before. Now brush the surface over lightly with 
some strained lemon juice, fold the paste and put it 
aside to rest for ten to fifteen minutes according 
to the temperature (it requires longer in hot 
weather) ; then again roll it out as before, applying 
the fat in the same way; fold it up and roll out 
again. Brush over with more lemon juice, roll it 



PIES AND TARTS. 9 

up and again let it rest for the same period, when 
you repeat the process, using up the last portion 
of the fat. It may be rolled and folded once or 
twice more in the same way, but with no fat, 
being careful the last time to get it to the right 
size and thickness. If it requires more width, 
turn the paste round at right angles and again 
roll it out straightforwardly, for it will never come 
light if rolled slanting from the direction in which it 
was folded. Remember that the less pastry is 
actually handled the better it will be, and if you 
do not possess cool hands, never touch the paste 
at all, even with your fingers, if you can help it, 
and never drag the jpaste, or let it hang with its 
weight drawing on it, as this makes the texture 
uneven. The proper way to lift pastry from the 
board is to roll it gently up on the rolling pin, 
rolling the latter from you, then dust your pastry 
board, or cover the dish as you please, releasing the 
paste by rolling back the pin the reverse way. Also, 
do not use more flour than you absolutely require 
for dusting the board, pin, or the dough itself, or 
you will spoil the balance of the ingredients, and 
very possibly make the dough heavy. 

A less expensive, but very good flaky crust may be 
made in the same way, only using lib. of flour, 
a small teaspoonful of salt, ^Ib. of butter or lard, 
and a gill (more or less) of cold water. 

Short Crust, — This is the easiest form of pastry- 
making, and it is best to learn the art of making 
this first thoroughly before going on to the pufE 
or, as some people caU it, ftakj -^^.^^x^ . "^ort ^^^sasok 



10 SWEETS. 

short crust sift together a pound of flour, a pincli of 
salt, and a teaspoonful of baking powder, then 
rub into it with the tips of the fingers 4oz. of 
lard or clarified dripping till it is all crumbled 
like breadcrumbs ; when you have got it to this 
condition, work into it a little cold water, getting it 
to a stiffish paste that can be rolled easily without 
sticking either to ihe board or the pin. This crust 
must be rolled out at once to the thickness required, 
for if rolled too much it becomes heavy. The 
quantity of water needed depends a good deal on the 
flour and on the temperature; for the above, a 
gill of cold water is a fair average, though in 
cold weather, and with some flours, it may take 
nearly twice as much. All short crust is made 
in this way, though the ingredients vary according 
to the degree of richness desired. For instance, 
for lib. of flour take 40Z. each of lard (or clarified 
dripping) and of butter, with half a teaspoonful of 
baking i)owdor, a pinch of salt, a teaspoonful of 
caster sugar, the same of lemon juice, and a little 
water, proceeding exactly as above, only remem- 
bering that with the sugar and lemon juice less 
water will be needed. This makes a very useful 
everyday crust for fruit tarts, pies, &c. The yolk of 
an egg added to the preceding paste improves it 
much, and makes it very suitable for dainty little 
tartlets and such like. For a rich short crust 
take a pound of fine sifted flour, ^Ib. of butter 
(or half butter, half lard), and either cold water and 
half a teaspoonful of salt or the yolk of an egg 
beaten up lightly with the juice oi one \emOTi, ^jji^ >a» 



PIES AND TARTS. 11 

little cold water may be used to moisten it. The 
best way to proceed is this: Put the flour intc 
a basin which it odIy half fills, then mix or sifl 
it with half a teaspoonful of- salt ; have ready the 
fat (whichever is used, only remembering that 
butter, and often lard, needs to have the extra water 
squeezed out of it with a clean cloth), minced or 
shredded very finely (if hard fat be used), with 
a knife, then crumble this lightly into the flour with 
your fingertips, being careful not to press or roll 
it betv7een the palms of the hands as some cooks 
will do. When this is all like fine breadcrumbs, 
the water must be added, very slowly and gradually, 
as the quantity depends so much on the fineness 
of the flour; the finer the latter the more water 
will it take up. As a good deal of the success 
of pastry making depends on this mixing, it is 
well (for a beginner at all events) to measure out a 
gill of water in a cup, watching it carefully as 
y6u mix in the first two or three parts of this water, 
with the blade of a knife, adding it towards the end 
very slowly. It is easy to tell when sufficient water 
has been added, for when most of the liquid has 
been put in, the dough will cling together in little 
rolls, which on being pressed with the finger will not 
only cling together but will gather to them any 
loose flour there may be round them; as long as 
there is the least crumbliness in the dough when 
pressed, more liquid is wanted. When properly 
mixed, the dough can be gathered into a ball, 
and used to wipe the xaiitm^ Vior^V qjvs^^ ^^^^a ^ 
doth. Make it into a tieat oYJVo^^ ^^k^ <3^ * 



12 SWEETS. 

floured 'board and press it out gently but firmly 
at first with the roller, then roll it out with short 
quick rolls to the right thickness, being careful 
always to stop the roller just short of the edges 
of the paste. Take care it sticks neither to the 
board nor to the roller, keeping both these lightly 
floured, but be careful not to overdo this flouring, as 
over-flouring, like over-rolling, will make your 
pastry hard and tough. Lift the pastry from the 
board as advised for puff paste by rolling it 
round the roller, reversing this action when you 
replace it. (N.B. — Excellent suet paste may be 
made by either of the above short paste recipes.) 
Eemember that paste made with baking powder 
should be used at once and never left "to rest" 
like puff paste. 

A delicious crisp paste, made without any butter, 
can be used for fruit pies, which is made thus: 
Sift together 4oz. flour and 2oz. finely powdered 
sugar, and work this to a smooth paste with the 
well-beaten yolks of two eggs, using a delicately 
clean wooden spoon for the mixture and handling 
the paste as little as may be with the hands. 
This paste requires a hot oven, and should l)e 
brushed over, before being placed in the oven, 
with stiffly whipped egg white, and then dusted with 
roughly pounded caster sugar. A few words must 
be said regarding the ingredients used in pastry 
making, &c., before proceeding to individual recipes. 
Always see that your flour, whether it be plain 
household or the finest Vienna or Hungarian 
flour, is perfectly dry and sifted, for damp or 



PIES AND TARTS. 13 

Ixanps are fatal to pastry making. If b> any 
chance the flour should have got damp, diy it 
carefully in a warm place before sieving it, but let it 
cool before using it. 

For the richest and best forms of pastry, butter of 
first-rate quality is required, though it need not be 
fresh ; but the slightest rankness in butter is fatal, 
for heat brings out and intensifies this obnoxious 
flavour to the most nauseous extent. If using good 
salt butter, wash it well three or four times in 
dean cold water, pressing it well with a clean 
cloth between each washing. This pressing is 
needed, though not to the same extent with the 
freshest butter, to free it from superfluous moisture. 
It is, perhaps, heresy to mention that really good 
margarine makes excellent short crust, though it 
does not answer so well for flaky or puff paste, 
probably because of its extra density. 

Lard can be used either by itself or with butter, 
as you please, so long as it is pure and of good 
quality, and not watery ; whilst for household use 
good clarified dripping gives most excellent results, 
and is far better, even for puff or flaky paste, 
than questionable lard. Suet carefully shred is also 
good for short crust. 

When eggs are used care must be taken to see 
they are fresh and in good condition. They add 
greatly to the lightness and richness of short pastry, 
though many cooks object to their use in puff 
pastry. 

Baking powder again is a debatable point. Some 
cooks taboo it indignantly, and, undoubtedly, baking 



14 SWEETS. 

powdgr pastry is apt to dry far more quickly 
than pastry made with fat only ; but this is 
frequently the result of an over-prenerous allowance 
of the baking powder. It should be sifted with the 
dry flour, and any paste in which it is used should 
be baked at once, for directly moisture is added 
to the powder, effervescence is set up, and unless 
flred before this has ceased, all the advantages of the 
baking powder wiU be lost. Pastry made with . an 
extra allowance of powder rises quickly and largely, 
but it dries equally, if not more quickly, and 
both smells and tastes disagreeably. 

It may be well to remind the beginner that 
puff pastry is none the worse for being left in a cool 
place for a little before use. 

To judge the heat of an oven there is no better 
guide than M. Gouffe's celebrated rules: Have 
ready some pieces of white kitchen paper, and try 
the oven by putting in a- piece of this paper every 
ten minutes or so. If the oven is too hot the paper 
will blacken or blaze up at once ; if it turns a 
deep, almost chocolate, brown, the oven is ready 
for patties, mince pies, &c. If it turns a Havana or 
cigar brown, tarts, vol-au-ventf &c., may be put 
in ; if it simply becomes a light brown, like deal, 
the oven is fit for game or large meat pies, pound 
cake, or bread ; if it turns a very pale yellow, 
or hardly colours at all, it is a slow oven just fit for 
sponge cakes, &c., which only want light baking and 
but little colour. The paper should be left two 
or three minutes in the closed oven. 

JBeginners are often puzzled to kno^ ^\ifiii -^^L-aXTj 



PIES AND TARTS. 15 

is cooked, as often they use a too quick oven, thus 
browning their paste before cooking it through. 
The safest test is to run a small and delicately clean 
steel skewer or knife into the centre of the paste. If 
cooked it can be drawn out clean, but if any paste 
sticks to it, the latter is not sufficiently cooked. 

Finally, there are the icings used as a finish to 
most tarts, and of these there is a great variety. 
For instance : 

I. Wet a brush or a small bunch of feathers 
well in cold water, and shake it lightly all over 
the paste, then dredge the latter well with sugar, 
and bake at once. This gives the paste a pretty 
light brown tint. 

n. Put into a basin the white of an egg and 
an equal amount of cold water, and beat these 
well together. Now apply it as in the preceding 
recipe with a brush or feathers, or, if preferred, brush 
it all over (damp, but do not wet the crust or it 
will make the paste heavy ; you only want enough to 
make the sugar stick). Then dredge it pretty 
thickly with caster sugar, and lastly wet your brash 
again with the egg and water, and sprinkle the 
paste lightly and evenly with this, 

m. Whip the white of an egg to a stiff froth nnA 
apply this evenly all over the tart, then dredge 
it pretty thickly with the tm^Ar, sprifykling it 
afterwards with cold wat«r, Thi« idn^ ]# ptft fm 
when the pie is about tbree^|narU:rr» eookfsfif imf) 
is then returned to the c^en to nH H, 

IV. This mmq i» be«t {//r r%th^ Uur^^ ^«k\>^, 
JB^usb the poMte aD ower wdl Vii\» ^jiiA ^«M<f «^X>»^ 



16 SWEETS. 

sprinkle it generously T^itli coarsely cruslied loaf 
sugar, sprinkling this again with a little more cold 
water, and bake carefully, covering the pie, if neees- 
sary, with a sheet of wetted paper to prevent its 
overcolouring. 

Fruit Pies, — These are mostly made in much 
the same way. Take green gooseberries, for instance 
For this choose the rich short crust mentioned 
before, made with the yolk of an egg and lemon 
juice (or, for household purposes, use the second 
recipe with the addition of an egg yolk) ; roll it out 
about ^in. thick, and as near as you can guess the 
size of the dish ; now turn the latter over the paste, 
and cut it round to the shape of the rim, leaving about 
fin. all round, to allow for the piled up fruit. Prom 
the paste left over cut a strip just the width of 
the piedish rim and long enough to go round it, 
overlapping just a little. Now moisten the rim 
of the dish, place this strip on it, pressing it to 
make it adhere, and cover with the shaped piece 
of paste when the fruit is put inside. When 
you have fixed on the rim strip, proceed to fill 
the dish with the green gooseberries, topped and 
tailed, adding from three to four good tablespoonfuls 
of brown sugar when you have half filled the dish, 
then put in the rest of the gooseberries, piling them 
well up in the centre to keep it all raised in a dome 
shape, adding about half a gill or so of water. This 
water is also usually added with apples and such like 
relatively dry fruit. If you have not fruit enough 
to pile up the centre of the dish well, it is best 
to put a small cup bottom upwards m Ai^ci^ '5\fe^\^ Vi 



PIES AND TARTS. 17 

support the crust, or the latter will fall from its own 
weight before it sets, and will then become sodden 
and heavy. Having filled it with fruit, now lay 
the upper paste over it by means of the rolling 
pin, and scallop the edges with the back of a knife 
held in a slanting direction, and brush it all over 
with one or other of the icings before given. A 
fruit pie, or tart, needs no further decoration, 
nor does it need a vent hole at the top. All fruit 
pies are made in this way, the only difference 
lying in the flavouring. It is well to remember that — 
in making cherry or black currant pie for instance — • 
it is wise to add a stick or so of nice rhubarb cut 
small, as this gives a rich, syrupy, but perfectly 
tasteless, liquid, thus adding to the juice which 
in such pies is always notoriously deficient. It is 
also weU to remember that brown sugar (of first- 
rate quality, however) is always to be preferred 
to caster sugar for sweetening fruit. A tart made 
with one and a half pints of gooseberries and Jib. 
short paste will take three-quarteis of an hour in a 
good oven — a time limit which also applies to most 
other fruit. 

Apple Pie, nowadays, is made in the same way 
as the green gooseberry pie given above, but in old 
days it was a much more elaborate affair. The fruit 
was peeled, cored, and sliced down, when it was . 
carefully stewed to a marmalade with an ounce or so 
of fresh butter and 2oz. to 4oz. of the best brown 
sugar, powdered cloves and nutmeg being added to 
taste ; it was then piled up in the pied\a\i ^SJOcl ^q»^x^^ 
sbred amdied peel and about "haAi a c^yjoxiftfc, ^^^^^^i 



18 SWEETS. 

cored, and sliced, mixed through, it. It was then 
covered with the crisp paste (made without butter), 
previously given, and baked at once in a sharpish 
oven. Quince, sliced and peeled, whole cloves, grated 
lemon peel, and a squeeze of lemon juice, are each 
and all considered additions to apple pie, and I have 
been told that a couple or more freshly gathered 
peach leaves, laid on the top of the fruit before 
covering it down, will add enormously to the flayour. 
These leaves, should be lifted out when the pie 
is opened, for they are not nice to eat. 

The thinnings from the grapes, green apricots, 
and plums may all be used in this way, but the 
initial stewing must on no account be omitted. 

Banana and Damson Pie, — Cover a piedish with 
damsons (fresh or bottled), moistening it with a 
little sugar syrup or the syrup of the fruit, strew 
generously with caster sugar, then add a layer of 
peeled and sliced bananas, more sugar, and a good 
sprinkle of brandy or white Silver Bays rum and 
proceed thus till the dish is well piled up with 
the alternate layers, finishing with the sugar; 
cover with good short or puff paste and bake 
in a quick oven. Serve with clotted cream or 
thick cream flavoured with vanilla. 

Strawberry Pie (sometimes called tourte a la 
Parisienne), — Line a round tart mould with a thin 
puff paste, put a strip about ^in. thick and lin. wide 
round it, fill up the centre with stalked strawberries, 
piling these well up in the middle, and sifting a 
good deal of sugar over all, then pour a liqueur- 
fflassfal of maraschino over it a\\, cio\ct Vi\3cl ^ ^v&^i 



FIES AKD TAIITS. 1<> 

of pvff pastay, pmching the e^ges well together, 
bimh it over inth vliite of egg, strew plentifully 
sifted sugar over it, bake in a quick oven, and serve 
directiy it is cooked. Almost any frait and aav 
good compotes can be utilised in this war. 

Pie a V Alliance, — Stew 4oz, of rice till tender 
in lemon, vanilla, or liqnenr-flavoured syrup till 
tender and sweet; then stalk and stone a pound 
of cherries and roll the latter well in 4oz. caster 
sugar; lay a quarter part of these in a piedish, 
strewing a few of the kernels (blanched) amongst 
them; cover this with a quarter of the rice> and 
repeat these layers till the rice and fruit are all used 
up, being careful to pile it all well up in the centre. 
Fix a strip of puff paste round the rim of the 
piedish, then cover the whole with a thin layer 
of puff paste, brush it well over with white of 
e^g, strew generously with caster sugar, and bake 
in a moderate oven for one and a quarter hours. 
Then brush the crust over with dissolved apricot 
jam, and sprinkle with crushed macaroons. Any 
fruit may be used thus, only varying the flarotirings. 



i'% 



CHAPTEK 11. 

PIES AND TAETS (Continued). 

Taking the definition previously giveiiy that 
** pies " represent covered pastry, whether sweet or 
savoury, whereas a tart or tartlet represents an 
uncovered pie, it may be observed that the method 
of preparation is much the same for the large lart, 
or the smaller tartlet. A flat, shallow tin is chosen, 
either round or oval in shape, over which is laid a 
sheet of pastry (generally of the short kind such as 
the second recipe given in Chapter I., an eggf being 
added to the paste whilst mixing), which is then 
carefully pressed on to the tin to get the shape 
right, a strip of paste, from three-quarters of an 
inch to one inch wide, being closely pressed on to 
the circumference of the tart, and Uie edges nicked 
or scalloped with the back of a knife as for a pio. 
The centre is then filled up with jam, comp6te, fresh 
fruit, &c., to taste. If liked, narrow strips of paste 
may be laid across the surface of the tart, in a 
lattice pattern, but it is best to put these on before 
fastening on the outer ring, as the latter hides the 
ends of the crossbars and kee^^a \\iCttL Sai ^^<^. 



PIES AND TARTS. 21 

Tartlets are made in precisely the same way as the 
larger tarts, and both require a fairly hot oven. 
Many cooks prefer to bake the tartlets till two-thirds 
done, and then fill them up, and this is a practice 
decidedly to be commended, both for flavour and 
appearance. B3th tarts and tartlets may be filled 
with a variety o£ mixtures, from fresh or stewed 
fruit, compotes, chessecake mixtures, or any mixture 
similar to that employed for Bakewell puddings, 
and such like. A few recipes only can be given, 
owing to the limited space available. 

Fudding Pies. — These are also often called *' Lenten 
pies." Boil up a pint of new milk with two or three 
strips of thinly peeled lemon rind till nicely fliivoured, 
then stir in 2oz. of ground rice, being careful to get 
this all to a perfectly smooth porridge ; now turn it 
into a basin and stir into it about loz. of butter, add 
a tiny pinch of salt, two good tablespoonfuls of 
caster sugar, two eggs, a good grating of nutmeg, and 
a heaped tablespoonful of well washed and dried 
currants. Stir this altogether till it is cool, then use 
it to three parts fill some thialy-lined patty pans, 
and bake about fifteen minutes in a gentle oven. In 
many parts of the country these are baked in special 
tins that have a false bottom, and they are covered 
over with a round of paste, the edges being 
moistened and carefully pressed together. They 
may be served plain, dusted with sugar, or brushed 
over with whisked white of egg, and dusted with 
caster sugar. 

Banbury Cakes. — For these Yia^e teflA^ %• 
me&t made thus : Beat ^\b. ol \>ut\«t ^ « 



22 SWEETS. 

shred very finely ^Ib. of mixed caaidied peel, well 
wash and dry lib. of currants, foz. of powdered 
cinnamon, 2^oz. powdered allspice, and a stale penny 
sponge cake grated fine ; mix this all well together, 
and keep in a covered-down jar. Eoll out some 
rich short crust tolerably thin, and either cut it out 
into circles or ovals. In the former case put a large 
spoonful of the mince on half the cake, and fold 
the other half over, brushing the edges lightly with 
white of egg, pressing them well together, and 
shaping the cakes into an oval with pointed ends. 
If you cut the paste into ovals, pile up a good 
spoonful of the mixture on half the ovals, brushing 
the edges well with white of egg, tl^en cover with 
the others, pinching the edges well together, and 
make the ends very pointed. In either case brush 
with whisked white of egg, and dust with caster 
sugar. They lake fifteen minutes, and may be eaten 
hot or cold. The filling, or mincemeat, varies locally, 
but the above is a good average filling. 

Eccles Cakes. — These are very much like Banbury 
cakes, a grated apple or two, and Soz. or 4oz. of 
brown sugar being added to the mixture, omitting 
half the candied peel there given. The pastry, which 
may be any odds and ends of puff or short crust, 
is rolled out thinly, stamped out in roimds the size 
of a tumbler, a small dessertspoonful of the mixture 
placed on each, which is folded over into a crescent, 
pointing the ends well ; three cuts are given to each, 
and the cakes are then frosted and finished off like 
Banbury cakes, but, being smaller, they take less time 
to cook. 



PIES AND TARTS. :S 

Mine^ne$. — ^For these i^epare tlie following mince- 
meat : Stone and chop 21b. of raisins ; well wash and 
dry 21b. of currants ; peel, coie, and chop finelj 21b. 
of apples ; shred very finelj 21b. of good snet free 
from skin or sinew ; lib. of good Demerara sugar ; 
4oz. of crumbled Naples or sponge finger biscuits ; 
2oz. each of candied citron, lemon, and orange peel, 
finelj shred; one nutmeg grated; a teaspoonful of 
powdered cloves ; half pint of brandj and a gill of 
port wine. Mix aU well together and let it stand, 
well covered with a bladder, for a month before use. 
An ounce or so of blanched and chopped almonds, 
and the juice and grated rind of a lemon, are both 
a great addition to the above. Line some pattj pans 
with puff paste, not too thicklj rolled out, lay a rim 
of paste all round, pressing this well on to tho 
tinder lajer ; put in a good spoonful of mincomoat, 
and cover with another round of paste, pre«8iiig iliiw 
well down onto the other rim ; brush over with y/h\U* 
of egg, dust thickly with caster su^ar, and hakn, 

Cheesecakes.— "For these you lino j>aity pium wHIi 
thinly rolled-out short crust, then fill up wiih iuty 
of the following che?secako mixtun^M, iuul miU^'i' 
arrange a trellis work of thin {>aMUi MtripM ov«tr it 
with the rim of paste as deucriUxl ab'/VM, or nimitl^ 
put on the rim, pinching it w<^ll inU) itlu/Mf mt4 
icing it with white of egg or sugar, Lmmn (tht^ent 
cake: Put into a deU^cately cbatt |/am IWh *4' i'm^f 
sugar, broken up into small lumps, iU^i y^Aka ^^4' tpi> 
and the whites of four ^ggs, ih^ juioy <^ ihf't^ m^i 
the grated rind of two kmoas, ^Ib. oi ti^mh U ^f, 
and three Naples or &x>onge ^i^er bi«cMil# 



24. SWEETS. 

stir this all gently over a slow, clear fire till the 
mixture thickens and becomes like honey ; then pour 
it into jars, cover down, and store in a cool, dry 
place. This mixture will keep good for three or 
four years. Almond Cheesecalce: Crush two or 
three ratafies, and pour on to them a spoonful of 
hot milk; when they are well soaked, add them to 
4oz. of blanched, chopped, and poimded abnonds, 
2oz. butter beaten to a cream, one or two table- 
spoonfuls of cream, the yolks of two eggs, a spoonful 
of brandy (this is optional), and the rind and juice 
of a quartered lemon. Beat this all well together 
for some minutes, then stir in the whites of the eggs 
whisked to a stiff froth, and three parts fill some 
pastry-lined patty pans with the mixture and bake 
in a good oven. Chocolate Cheesecake: This is 
American, and in the United States these cakes are 
known as mirlitons. Crush to a fine powder six 
macaroons, then add them, with a tablespoonful of 
grated vanilla chocolate, to a pint of new milk, and 
let them infuse for ten minutes. Beat the yolks of 
three eggs till light with a full tablespoonful of 
caster sugar, flavour to taste with vanilla, mix this 
lightly but thoroughly to the macaroons, &c. ; fill the 
pastry-lined patty pans with this mixture, and bake 
for fifteen to twenty minutes in a quick oven. Potato 
Cheesecalce : Grate off the rind of two oranges and 
one small lemon on to 2oz. or 3oz. of loaf sugai*, 
then pound this with 3oz. of boiled and very floury 
potato ; beat 2oz. of fresh butter to a cream, add it 
to this, and, when it has all been worked to a smooth 
j?aste, add the jolks of two egga an^i l\i^ ^\u.\a q1 



PLES AZO) TAiRlS. S 

one wliipped to a froth; luJi £11 t}ie ps<33T-.Sifeed 
patty pans, and bake abont tveaitT minines sa a 
quick oven. 

Richmond Maids of Hon<n:r. — ^Tnm three pinfes of 
good milk with one and a half tal^lespoonsfal of 
essence of rennet, letting it stand nntonched until 
all the whey has come away from the cord, when 
you leave the curd to drain for a little on a reversed 
sieve till it is solid enough to press lightly in a clean 
cloth ; now mix this curd gradually with the yolks 
of four eggs beaten till light, a gill of clotted or 
thick cream, the rind of a lemon grated off on to a 
few lumps of loaf sugar (this should then be 
poimded), a dust of powdered cinnamon, rather more 
of grated nutmeg, 5oz. or 6oz. of well washed and 
dried currants, and half a gill of brandy. Line 
buttered patty pans with puff paste, fill with the 
mixture, and bake about fifteen or twenty minutes. 
The amount of sugar is a matter of taste, so are the 
currants, which may be either mixed in, just sprinkled 
on the top when ready for the oven, or be omitted 
altogether, chopped almonds being substituted as a 
sprinkling. There are many recipes given for these 
tartlets, which all claim to be *Uhe original Richmond 
maids of honour," but the abov« I l^elierve to he ha 
near that as one can get nowa/lay» j a*, all f^min, it 
contiins the curd whi/rb wOv^j </f oh\ Mt inf^^r^l ptiti 
of a cheesecake. 

Treacle Tart or TiriUiHr^Vm ^^m U^h^ * intK ^^ 
some tartlet paw*, whit ^f^A nU^^fi <v^y^,, ^ pemt 
in some ixesutlh m j^"/^!^ *7^^V* yt^^V ^ \ 
with gnt^ hmrni^ tt^\ MD^i ^ l^irtii^ f4 



26 SWEETS. 

slightly thickened with either breadcrumbs or 
crumbled cake crumbs ; cover with a trellis of pastry 
strips, fix on the outer rim, and then bake. 

Manon Tarts, — Roll out some short paste rather 
thinly, and with it line some plain tartlet pans ; 
pour in a little frangipane, patissiere cream, or any 
rich fruit marmalade to taste ; put some fresh fruit, 
either whole or halved and stoned, and rolled in 
caster sugar on the top. Cover the whole with a 
disc of the thin short crust (made without butter) 
previously given; pinch the edges well together. 
Wash the tarts over with a little well-beaten egg and 
bake. When three parts baked sprinkle them 
lightly with sugar and glaze, then return them to 
the oven (which should be a gentle one for this) to 
finish baking, and serve hot or cold. 

In families where unexpected visitors are rather 
the rule than the exception, it is well to keep a 
supply of tiny tartlet cases at hand, for if stored in 
air-tight tins they keep very well. To make these 
butter any pretty little quenelle, dariole, or shell 
moulds, and line them with a rather stifE paste, 
pressing this well into the moulds to get the shape 
exact. Prick the paste all over to prevent its 
blistering, and lay in each little bits of paper filled 
with rice, dried peas, &c., and bake. For the pastry 
for this purpose make a paste with ^Ib. flour, 3oz. 
to 4oz. of butter, and four tablespoonf uls of beaten 
whole egg, or enough to mix the paste. This makes 
a capital and rather stiff paste, which keeps well and 
can be used with all sorts of fillings on an 
emergency ; for instance, if required in a hurry, take 



a bottle <£ isrwH, mase^^im^. $tmu v^ff Xhx^ i>vvii|^ m\\ 
fiarffor it *© ttatste watb T;^iulb v>r lu|Ut>Uf (ilf {[m^p \n 
tinke, Ibt it jiast bdelup^^ ;»rmA^ Urn fruits iti lltM 
pastiy m«!Els (if yoa bar^ u^\i dwinlif* t^uMihlw In 
sbMipe tiMsn), pour th<e nxluctKl pyru|» ovt^i' fli»^lM4 
place «i e«di a testspoonful o£ whij>i»^tl (}\vm\^ juul 
seire. lliese are called in Pmiio<? pmh iVttuwiU' mtv 
fnUU. In England thesis }mh d\tmttnr tti'Mttihully 
made by stamping out thick ulionix tif ('«!?»» m»' unUI 
plum-pudding into rounds with a pUlii (MiM^^^, H«)Ht| 
a smaller cutter to hollow out thn o^nlf^^ wM>'lf )« 
then filled up with whipped on»ftni, l»m»Ml/^ l/Hlli^f; 
Caledonian cream, (fee, to tast^e. 

Few things differ more, thouj^h )fmrUiy; ^tt^ iH4h^*i 
name, than English and Vrtmvh in,rin tih^i MflM^ 
We all know the usual Urlilwh ftttuUftt m^ ^^t^^ 
shape with a raised bonlirr, iumI tti \f)mun w, J»j^j/j i^f 
crossbar of strips of paMt>««^ yfuW^U U m^*utii^ hai^i^si 
till the jam in the C4.*ntr#j ftfrmit «t i/i^J^y '»>^'^iy. **^ 
good enough flavour, but (d h, fwM mu.'/htiiJii^.itiy 
yiscous consistency. Tli^^j tart '4 t^ultc wt>f i» ij^nU: u 
different article. The <;ra»i in iri^ij, vjjiuiii^ utnlrA 
through, and delicate;Jy <M^1*/M^ii<l; wU'iUi \hjc Uuii, 
whether hot or cold, i« jxjife.'t iu jbIhi^^c' aiji/J cijj/yu/, 
and floating in, or surroujtidtid hy/, *t d^ilicai/c cuanny 
syrup, strongly flavoured v^ith tLe fruii ctannuu:, \ h: 
latttr beiDg brought up bv tke a/idilnju uf u iiD.ia 
liqueur or flavouring to table, 'i'iic' aicf:iiod ot jyii 
paring tbese is as follows : iioll out teoioe j^ood blio/ 1 
or rough puff paste pretty tiiinly, and witii thi^ inn; 
some small tatrtlet or j/atty pans, pricking tlio bjvvc/' 
Gust with the points of a f<^rk or with a skuwcr to 



28 



prevent the Da«f^ • • 
^ceij coloured tTo ^® ^ a fa,ir1v i, 1 ^' ^7- 

Choose nice rice X. °/ ^""*' may be t^^'**^' ^^ of 
Have ready s^ f^^^ "^^ -oil i^ "^/fP^^d th^^: 
f^.sugar ia a ^1]^ J"^ «^P made L i^^ «agar. 

^ffe- and poor /r«"'-. Manilla, or k **' ^^our 
^*^^,/« a wa^ p^^^ on to tie f^7« /«iee to 
*ien lift out the ?« •! ^'*'" ^'^e^tj-fire ^ • ^* «>« 

COM, TThen you T^J^^'a irell ami i^'^^sed with 
*^^o till th^? ""'^ *i«n off ,-?^ ^**''e tieia^ 

*J^in whilst you ? ^ * ""'^^ a sti^" °°* a^^hed 
oooted till it IZ Y "P *ie sy^:' " *°^ ^ot 7t 
^i^i«?. on to ^^^/' ^i^i. whfr"? "" ^^"■ci it wj 

•"7 ^ added tTS; '''*^^^^^. a Stl.f ^°''^ ^ S 
^<i also anr fl ® ^^^P for f Iw " ^^^ «Ui?ar 

^«forepoSwrr^toU,ltlT"d boiT^^ 

«^^/:^* « objS\n;;;^e. fnut. Xr^^^-^-ied jail- 
or liqueur syrun !!' ""* J"'ce, anvl ^^«««i- or 
, J''-. agS';^/^be U33d ins5lr''<« *<> ^^tej 

''^'^"-^«^7'sta:SLr,*^«^«-,aiindof, 

' -^^ - A«r rtf r: 



\ 



PIES A5D TJJBKS. 5 

l)akiiig sheet, and Itt::ttz i:: wtdi i jn^i^L ijufo? ]» 
"before; biingmg up tfii» torfer -vJiiL mil -imt-'TTns 
it into shape with the Trrgg* laii TTinmn. irrfim^j .r 
well all OTer, and mhisr •zcckzu; i:§ MrrBei. y^r "iur 
tartlets, or else brMh-^g 'aie acisini i^^^ir i-rii -nir^* 
of egg, and fillfng the iasL u iiilDwn TLa^^ nrr 
fruit yon choose, either tine wn inlj ir i lursnft. 
and toss this affas" stxm'-^q azd ;«y*nrT<f imL x lifs^^ 
sary, hahing) is, in sifsd ingir iznntp* x ji ^lirr 
flan, cook the whole in i ibun i^^^sl lajt -iuta. afrr-i> 
sprinkled with the •zKbdcsd £iti imni'-h^i. u^fn^ix !r 
the nnts, or some ^LTTii Fv^asc imi iir>r iLnuimuL 
moistening it aQ with i Irirle ^kblt r — it: larMmr^ 
to taste. If yon preirr v. iZ '^e *jjn£i^i IkiL li-ar 
any compote to tas^ •dif'fiuzins *nnio#trrr j» 'rfS'.'-^Iifiir 
for this) and poor it w^iilfC 2i:n "^rst auTfiiilr nnt 
the flan, and if to be »rrT=ii ini: iri^^-rr -iii^ -iin v-jii 4. 
meringoe of egg wb^z*is iaii tfe-L 4ntf3r l*r;;nir--i 
to taste, and sec "dc* ia. i tiat'iz: :«vn. -Jl I-'^n:":- 
browned. If to be «c«l 'xiL jjar-t x •!! tTur.- -r ..'t. 
then garnish widi wh^z^ni. ^r*xsi. m^xiu.inu \vim 
with chopped pijtMha».^j:i3ii?^ lOii r.\ij:j^sauii€. ' 
&c., as yon IQoe. 

Then, again, tiiesifr ; tie z^iwr^st J *r •*!>- if 
these roll oak KHn& r^ . ^nd! vbin* j?ir,i>rr *ami-/ 
and cot fiam this a ?:>: : ^v:n!: ';2ie fUCKr i^ it ^i;^ >. 
on this romid pOe Tip i r'^oi ^irri*^ H>'^''^ '^ 
orange f " * ""*^^^** a« y ^u>jbae. j s 

inch all loimd qaise i «r -vt 1 

rim lightly with a bra c y r' - 

the jam all or— -r^^ Kisi l jt 
two edges weD ti '\ 



nf> SWEETS. 

then cut a strip of the same paste, about * 
quarters to one inch wide, and about half an 
thick, and place this all round the part p] 
together, finishing it off neatly by cutting th 
ends of the band diagonally and fitting ther 
together; trim it all round with a knife, bn 
over with either eorg or milk, and bake in a hot 
glazing it with a little sifted sugar before it is 
baked, and serve. If preferred, strips of pasi 
be arranged in a trellis over the jam, instead < 
second round of paste, finishing off with the 
border as before. Bottled fruit, or any kii 
compote or frangipane cream may be used for 
tourtes, as you please, in precisely the same 
There is a kind of tourte, more often called a g 
fourre, or stuffed cake, which is particularly go( 
a change. For this you roll out two sheets oi 
paste as before, spreading one with either a rich 
marmalade, stewed or preserved fruit (or fresh 
marinaded in sugar and lemon juice with a 
little thick syrup) ; cover with the second r 
pressing the edges well together, brush it with 
and bake in a sharpish oven ; then brush over 
white of egg, dust it with sugar and blanched 
chopped almonds or pistachios, and put it u 
oven for a minute or two to set this glazing, 
cold. Very often before putting this cake i 
oven it is marked with the back of a knife 
segments, pressing from the centre to the cii 
ference, so that when cold it can be cut up 
portions neatly. Lastly, there is the well-k 
OcUeau St, Honore. This is, if properly carriet 



PEES AND TAKT3. 31 

ODO of the chefs d^oeuvre of the French cuisine, but 
it is not at all difficult to produce a very creditable 
and decidedly palatable yersion at much less trouble 
and expense. Boll out a round of short paste about 
six or eight inches in diameter and one-third of an 
inch thick, pricking this all over to keep it from 
rising; have ready some good chou paste in a 
forcing bag with a plain pipe and force out a roll of 
this paste all roimd the sheet of short paste, fasten- 
ing off the two ends as neatly as possible. On 
another baking sheet press out a number of little 
balls the size of a small walnut, and then bake both 
the tart and the balls in a moderate oven till nicely 
coloured. Dust the border and the balls with sifted 
sugar, and set them in the mouth of the oven to 
glaze. When quite cold dip the lower half of the 
balls either into white of eg^ or sugar boiled to the 
crack, and fasten them all round the cake, on the top 
of the border of chou paste. Meanwhile make a 
frarijgijpane cream thus : Put into a pan rather more 
than 6oz. of fine sifted flour, the yolks of six eggs, 
6oz. or 8oz. of sugar, and a pinch of salt; moisten 
it with a pint of new milk, and stir it all over the 
fire, which should be a slow one, all the time till it 
thickens, letting it all but come to the boil (if it 
actually boils, the e^^s will curdle) two or three times ; 
then lift it off the fire, stir in lightly and quickly 
the stiffly whipped whites of the eggs, replace it on 
the fire for a minute, stirring it all the time, then 
again remove it, and stir it till almost cold, when you 
turn it into the cold St. Honore case and leave it till 
set. It can then be served plain, or garnished with 



32 SWEETS. 

glace fruit, or witli fruit marinaded in sugar and 
lemon juice, or liqueur, and then dipped in sugar 
boiled to the crack. The points of a St. Honore are 
the use of the two kinds of paste, either short and 
best pufE paste or, more commonly, short paste and 
chou paste, the use of the frangipane or cream, and the 
garnish of glazed fruit, though very often the name 
is given to a tart made thus and filled with stewed 
fruit or compote covered with whipped cream. The 
frangiyane can be flavoured to taste with essences 
or liqueurs, or with praline almonds, crushed maca- 
roons, &c., as you please. 

St, Honore of Chestnuts (aux marrons), — For this 
peel the nuts and blanch them for a moment or two 
till the inner skin peels off easily. Now put these 
nuts into a thin sugar and water syrup flavoured 
with a little lemon juice and any liqueur or liqueur 
syrup to taste, and allow them to cook until quite 
soft, but not broken ; have ready a St. Honore case, 
and lay the chestnuts into this, giving the syrup a 
sharp boil up to get it as thick as possible, and when 
nearly cold pour it on to the chestnuts. The great 
secret is to have the syrup thick enough not to run 
too much, or it will make the case messy. Just 
before serving it pile over it some cream well 
whipped and flavoured to match the chestnuts. For 
the case, roll out some short paste not too thin, and 
stamp out from it a six-inch round; have some 
choux paste in a bag with a plain pipe, and press out 
the paste in a roll all round the edge of the round 
of short paste, which should be well pricked to 
prevent its rising. Press out also some little balls 



PIES AXD TARTS. 55 

of the paste on anothar laking sheiet, and lake it aB 
in a moderate OTen till mcelr ookrared. 3rQA the 
ring of chonx paste orer with white cf egg, and 
press the little balls on to it all ronmd, aiod use 
the case. This will serre as a gu3de f^o* anj kind <^ 
comp6te. Canned fmits are particolariT good for 
St. Honor^, either with or withoat creaaiL 

Chou Paste. — ^Pnt into a saucepan a tomblerfol 
(barely half a pint) of cold watier, a rerj tinj pin/crh 
of salt, an ounce of caster sugar, an ounce of butter, 
and a little grate of lemon peeL When this is 
boiling, lift it off the fire, and strew in graduallr 
enough flour to make it all a nioe thick paste ^about 
a teacupful, or, say, 4oz. should be ample ; but it 
depends a good deal on the flour, the original French 
from which this recipe is takefu says 100 grammes) ; 
return it to the fire, stirring it sharply all the 
time, tiQ it becomes quite smooth and do^ not 
adhere to the sides of the pan — this will take a very 
few minutes. Now lift it off again and set the pan 
on a reversed plate or stand, and let the paste get 
Tery cool, not to say cold; then break into it one 
egg, stirring this all till perfectly amalgamated, and 
repeat this with two or three more eggs, never putting 
in the next till the previous one is quite worked up 
into the paste. At the end of this the paste should 
be of such a consistency that the spoon can be lifted 
out of it quite clean, while if lifted itself the mass 
will come off clear from the sides of the pan and be 
quite firm. It may be necessary to add a fourth 
egg sometimes. The test of the paste being ready 
is to lift a piece in the spoon and allow it to drop 

D 



34 SWEETS. 

on tlie board, wlien it should fall quite clear of the 
spoon, and not spread in the falling. Then bake in 
a moderate oven. This can be shaped by dropping 
it from a spoon or by the use of a forcing bag and 
plain pipe, when it is forced out in rounds, rings, 
&c., as required. 

Flan d'Amandes a la menagere, — Pound 6oz. to 
7oz. of blanched almonds (6r take the same of 
freshly ground sweet almonds) and mix it with half 
its weight of veal kidney suet well picked over and 
shred; then add 6oz. of sifted sugar, half that 
weight of fine sifted flour, one whole egg and the 
yolk of four, two or three spoonfuls of orange flour 
water, or an adequate flavouring of grated lemon 
peel, and lastly, the whites of two eggs whipped as 
stiff as possible. Prepare a Jlan as described above, 
fill it with this mixture, and bake forty minutes in a 
moderate oven. Strew sugar over and serve. 

Tourte Pralinee a VAnglaise, — Prepare a frangi- 
pane as described for the St. Honor^, only 
adding to this a few well washed and dried currants 
or some stoned raisins, some finely shredded candied 
peel, two or three bitter almond macaroons or ratafies, 
a grate of nutmeg, and half a sherry glassful of 
sherry or rum ; fill a ^owr^e made as above with 
this mixture and bake in a good oven, glazing it 
when about half done with a little sugar mixed with 
a little white of egg and an ounce or two of 
blanched and chopped almonds. Eetum it to the 
oven and finish off as usual. 



r 



CHAPTEB nL 

PAXCAE:ES, FEirTEES, &a 

Pahcax^ are 'well known in ererr bouse, and in 
many Shrore ToeBdar would hardlj seem itself 
without these dainties. Bat the ail; of pancake^ 
tnalrfng ig, hj jsio^ cla.ffled with potato boiling, ^^ the 
sort of thing anjone can do,'' as I once heard a ladj 
say contemptaooslT when her husband inquired 
anxLonsfy if tiie incoming cordon hl-eu " could boil a 
potato decently!'' As a matter of fact, the good 
woman oonld not, and what's more her mistress 
oonld not show her, so, like the little pig of nurserY 
lore, the hnsband ** got none " dnrmg her reign. 

THie first thing naturally is to consider the batter. 
CHE this there are sereral kinds, from the plain flour, 
eggs, and milk mixture for the ordinary pancake or 
Yorkshire padding, to the dainty I'atter compounded 
with ^gs, flour, and delicate liqueurs which is used 
for the finest fruit fritters. The following may give 
some idea of ihe Tarious kinds : 

L Put ^Ib. of flour into a basin, make a bay in 
the oentre with your knuckles, and into this drop 

D 2 



3C SWEETS. 

the yolks of two unbeaten eggs, and a tablespoon- 
f ul or so of milk. Stir tbe flour gradually down 
into this little pond, adding a little more milk 
gradually as you work it all together, being careful 
not to thin it too quickly, but to keep it stiff enough 
to enable you to rub out any lumps and to keep it 
all perfectly smooth. When you have used about 
half a pint of milk, beat the mixture well with a 
delicately clean wooden spoon till it is a mass of air 
bubbles, then work in the rest of the milk — about 
half a pint — as before, and let the batter stand for an 
hour at least (two are better) before using it ; just 
at the last add in quickly and lightly the whites of 
the eggs whipped to a stiff froth. K a richer batter 
is desired, double the number of eggs and omit a 
short gill of the milk. A little salt should always 
be sifted with the flour. 

n. Beat well together two tablespoonf uls each of 
best salad oil and water with a pinch of salt, 
then gradually work into this enough fine dry flour 
to produce a decidedly thick paste, which you thin 
gradually and cautiously with more cold water till 
you get it to the right consistency, when you let it 
rest as before ; incorporating into it when about to 
use it the Very stiffly whipped whites of two eggs. 

III. Beat up the yolks of two eggs with two 
tablespoonfuls of brandy, rum, or liqueur to taste, 
one tablespoonful of best salad oil (if using liqueur a 
dessertspoonful of oil will be sufficient), and four or 
five tablespoonfuls of cold water ; sift together three 
tablespoonfuls of fine flour and a pinch of salt, 
then beat into it gradually the eggs, &c., being 



PANCAKES, FRITTERS, Ac. 87 

careful to get it all to a perfectly smooth paste, and 
keep on beating it for fullj ten minutes. If this 
paste is too thick it must be thinned by the addition 
of a little water, beating this also in thoroughly. 
Let it stand for a couple of hours at least, and when 
about to use it incorporate the whites of two eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. If preferred, light French or 
Rhine wine or liqueur syrup may be used for this 
batter instead of water. This form is very useful 
for fritters of many kinds, especially fruit ones. It 
must be remembered that even for use as a sweet, 
batter is better unsweetened, as the least overs ugar- 
ing results in heavy batter. 

For pancakes choose a perfectly clean frying or 
omelet pan, and melt an ounce or so of butter 
(according to the size of the pan) in it, allowing this 
to heat till it smokes, then pour quickly into the 
very centre of the pan a wineglassful or so of batter ; 
if ihe fat is at the right temperature the batter will 
spread all over the pan directly, whereas if it has 
not reached quite the right heat you may have to 
tilt the pan to get the batter to cover it properly. It 
must be left undisturbed for a minute or so imtil 
it is set enough to allow of a knife blade (a palette 
knife is best) being slipped under it to loosen it 
&om the pan. Directly the under side is deli- 
cately browned, turn it over with the knife and 
brown the other side ; then slip it out of the pan, 
strew sugar over the side last done (this is generally 
not so even in tint), roll up the pancake and keep it 
hot whilst you finish off the rest. This is the 
ordinary pancake, which may of course be varied 



38 SWEETS. 

according to its flavouring, a cut lemon being usually 
sent to table with it. It is well to remember that 
pancakes are like omelets, and require a pan kept for 
their use, a pan, moreoTer, that should never he 
washed, but simply wiped out carefully after use 
with pieces of paper until no soil or fat marks the 
last paper used. If by any accident the omelet or 
pancake pan has been used for any other purpose 
(carelessness that cannot be too strongly depre- 
<iated), rub it well, first with salt, and then with 
paper ; next put into the pan a lump of fat (dripping, 
lard, or any fat will do for this), and heat it till the 
fat smokes strongly and begins to brown, when it 
must be poured ofE, and the pan rubbed clean, as 
described above, with several pieces of clean paper. 
This is called " seasoning " the pan, and is a process 
that every new pan should go through before it is 
used for omelets, &c. 

There are many varieties of pancakes, such, for 
instance, as the panneqtiet a la Celestine, when the 
batter is measured off into little cups so as to keep 
the quantities equal, the pancakes being, when ready, 
quickly spread with any nice jam, rolled up, and 
served, sprinkled with sugar, plain or flavoured. Or 
make the pancakes as just given, being careful to 
strew each as it comes from the pan pretty thickly 
with grated vanilla chocolate and a dust of sugar, 
placing the first pancake ready on a hot dish, then 
lay the next, similarly coated, on top, and continue 
thus till you have used all the pancakes but one, 
which you leave plain, only dusting the top thickly 
with vanilla sugar. Serve very hot, either plain or 



PAyCATTKS, FELCCTEBSv Act. 3U 

with exeiyiL. This pam^ak^ m partiiniliuiy 'laixdrp i£ 
iBftde wit& tiie Eqiieiir batter. 

TimmH^e^pieta Glaco^. — Thatie are somBw&a£ ^iiSnt- 
eutlj piepazed. Fouml va a powLfr Vn, ^t 
maearoQns azui ^oz. of «Iried ojcuigie ii^w^fjrsy nhtfOL 
mix tiiis powder wttik foz. of lanabf j^iiw^hfCHd. ;»tgtur 
and loflL daded fiom%. sfiafd witiiL haH a ialt^poooiul 
of sitit, idod work into all tiim thtt w^HrJbieafiea 
jolks <^ five egga^ azid a pure of <£reAixL or ixew milk. 
Add tbe well whipped whises of tkpie ^t^:^ <<'^ ^^ 
last. Dtfide tbis mixnnre iii^ b»fforM^ jjid uubke tW 
e- is ipmaaaeLj tbe ssuzLe waj a^s^ a^^tzal^ brv^wuio^ 



it deiicatpty chl botk aiiiesy and keiepin^ tbe lav^r oif 
bttfcleraa tbfn as possible^. Xow turn it out v>^ tv> a 
liot baking: ab^et^ spread tb« panreake with aporkvt 
marmalade, eoTering tbis again with a gvxxi du^^t oi 
crushed macarocHis, roE it up tigbtlj ainl keep hot 
till the rest are done ; then strew them all prett v 
thicHf with caster sugar aad glaze them bv }xii^u^ 
a red-hot salamander or shovel oy^t the surface* ajuu 
serve at once. French cooks frequently halve anvl 
trim these pancakes, but if carefully made to sitart 
with thej do not need this, and are undoubtedly 
better the less they are handled. Another version 
of this, known as pannequets a la royahy is made 
by spreading these pancakes with any nice ei^^me 
paiissiere to taste (chocolate for choice), and either 
rolling them up or putting them one on top ot the 
other, when the last is laid over them plain, piled uj» 
with a meringue of beaten ej?g-white oud sugar, and 
set in a slack oven for a minute or two to erinp and 
just colour. 



40 SWEETS. 

Strudeln, a German form of pancake, are very nic^ 
and are made tlius : Make a batter with four eg^ 
yolks, 2oz. of warmed butter, 3oz. or 4oz. of fine 
flour, loz. of caster sugar, and half a pint of warm 
milk ; prepare the pancakes in the usual way (being 
careful to measure the batter off into cups), adding 
in the beaten whites and also more butter each time 
the batter is poured into the pan ; meanwhile stir 
together the well-beaten yolks of four eggs with half 
a pint sour cream, stir in a spoonful or two of well 
washed and dried currants and sultanas, with a 
good grate of lemon peel, and spread this mixture 
oyer the pancakes, rolling each up lightly, and lay 
them in a buttered piedish ; moisten with a few 
spoonfuls of milk sweetened and flavoured to taste» 
put a morsel of butter on each pancake, and set the 
dish in the oven till it is aU slightly browned, and 
serve very hot. 

Ale Pancakes, — For these make a batter with 4oz. 
of flour sifted with a pinch of salt, a teaspoonful of 
brown sugar, about half a pint of ale, and spice to 
taste. These are very old-fashioned, and should be 
made rather thick, a generous allowance of brown 
sugar being strewn over them. The white of an egg 
for each half pint of ale added at the last, as with 
other pancakes, is a great improvement to most 
tastes, or sometimes half ale and milk is used. 
Apples peeled, cored, and cut into dice, or well 
washed and dried currants, are also added to this 
(and, indeed, other batters) when stirring in the 
frothed egg-white into the batter. 

Snow Pancake, — Mix three tablespoonf uls of sifted 



PANCAKES, FRITTERS, &o. 41 

flour gradually and smootlilj mth lialf a pint of 
new milk, tlien add one egg well beaten, and 
just at tlie last, as you are about to use it, beat in 
three tablespoonfuls of new-fallen snow, and fry as 
usuaL 

Lastly, there are two yery toothsome American 
forms of pancake : 

Flannd Cakes, — ^Beat to a cream 2oz. of butter 
and loz. of caster or brown cane sugar, then add in 
two well-beaten whole eggs, working in quickly at 
the last |lb. of flour sift^ with half a teaspoonf ul 
of baking powder, add enough milk to produce a 
smooth batter, cook, and use at once. 

Adirondaelc Fancdkes. — ^Make the pancakes as in 
the preceding recipe, pour dissolr^ butter orer 
them, and then a good layer of maple syrup, and 
serye rery hot, piled one on the other. Cut them 
through right down to serve. 

Fritters. — ^The great point about fritters ii that 
they must be fried in a fat-bath like rissoles, 
croquettes, &q. When fruit is to be used it should 
preferably be marinaded in sugar, lemon juice, 
liqueur, wine, spirit, or liqueur syrup to taste, for at 
least an hour or two, then well dusted with caster 
sugar. (This makes the batter adhere more erenly.) 
Apples and pears should be peeled and sliced across, 
the core being stamped out of each slice with a plain 
round cutter; apricots, peaches, plums, ^., should 
be halved^ stoned, and peeled before marinading and 
sugaring them, whilst small fruit, uiifAi as currants, 
blackberries, Ac,, shoul/1 be stalked, sugared, and 
dropped altogether into the batter, then carefuUy 



42 SWEETS. 

lifted out witli a small spoon three or four together, 
dropping them neatly into the hot fat so as to form 
one fritter out of them. For fruit fritters for com- 
pany use batter No. m. 

Pieces of any cake or of cold pudding can be 
utilised for fritters, or any rich marmalade, jelly, 
&c., wrapped in wafer paper, and dipped in good 
batter, makes a delicious and uncommon fritter. 

Frilled Fritters, — These are great favourites in the 
nursery. Make a good batter with one egg, a table- 
spoonful of flour, and suiScient new milk to nniY this 
to the consistency of thick single cream. Have 
ready the frying kettle with the fat at the right heat 
for fish (i.e., till it browns a crumb of bread in a 
minute or two), drop the batter into it very gently by 
dessertspoonfuls, and fry to a delicate golden brown 
till quite light and crisp. They will take about three 
minutes to cook, becoming of a hollow cup shape 
with frilly edges. Serve dusted with lemon or 
vanilla sugar. 

Beignets Sovffles. — ^These are a common dish in 
France, but somehow seldom appear to succeed in 
England, yet they are very simple to make. Put 
into a delicately clean pan a short half pint of water, 
a few grains of salt, loz. each of sugar and fresh 
butter, and the finely grated peel of a lemon. (This 
flavouring may be varied to taste.) When this is 
all boiling, lift it off the tire and strew in by degrees 
sufficient flour to make a nice thick, smooth paste 
(about a teacupful of flour will be needed). Now 
return the pan to the fire, stirring it sharply all the 
time — to ensure its being smooth and not sticking to 



PASCATTRS, FBITTEBS, &c. 43 

the pan — for a feir minutes ; then lift it off again 
and let it cool, breaking into it when nearly cold 
three or four wliole eggs, one after the other, work- 
ing one well into the paste before adding in the 
next, until the paste becomes an ela^^tic dough, 
filowlj drawing back from the spoon and leaving it 
quite clean as jou lift it above the pan. Now let it 
lest for a couple of hours, then drop this paste in 
spoonfuls the size of a walnut into some hot fat in i 
frying kettle, and let it cook till nicely coloured and 
very nmch swollen, when you lift out the fritters* 
with a Bkimmery let them drain for a little in a warm 
comer on a sheet of paper, then dredge with su^ur, 
and serve either hot or cold. Do not put too luauy 
into the fryiog kettle at once or it will chill the i'at, 
and remember not to get the frying fat too hot at 
first or the fritters will not puff out j)r()iHjrlY. 
Some people add an extra egg white, boatou to tlu) 
stiffest possible froth at the last, to tlii.** I>uttnr 
(which, by the way, is the same pas to \\h\^{\ iur 
choux a la creme, &c., or for Boston Crfum (hikfn, 
only that these are baked instead of frlod). When 
first dropped into the fat these frittor.s nink to tlio 
bottom, rising gradually to the top an tliny hwoH, 
at last floating on the surface of the fat. Now \nui\i 
them well turned so that they cook nvtnily, lor it 
neglected they will probably burst. Tlmy will taku 
from ten to fifteen minutes to cook, and ohoiiM bwi.ll 
enormously and be of a bright goM«jn brown, rjuih; 
crisp and hollow. 

Lastlv, there are the Aiiu*rican fritfxTb kn/>wn ao 
Dough Nuts, made thus: Ik*at up two e^^gti, ti^i-u 



U SWEETS. 

mix in 6oz. to 8oz. of sugaor, four tablespoonf als of 
butter melted, a saltspoonful eacli of salt and ground 
cinnamon, a few sultanas, lialf a pint of milk, and 
sufficient flour (mixed with a teaspoonf ul of baking 
powder) to make it all to a soft dougb ; roll it out 
an inch thick, cut it into inch-wide strips, and roll 
or twist these into any shape or plait you please; 
then drop them into smoking hot fat, and fry a 
golden brown. Drain thoroughly, and roll them in 
powdered sugar whilst warm. This is an American 
recipe given me by an American lady. They are 
also dropped like the heignets souffles into hot fat, the 
cook pressing her finger through the centre of each 
to give them a ring shape ; or a spoonful of jam 
may be inserted between two rounds of the paste, 
the edges well pinched together, and the whole 
finished off as before. 

Omelets. — These are by some people described as 
the French version of the English pancake, a 
mistake, however, as the French have jpannequets 
and crepes, which last are a very delicate form of 
pancake, cooked in precisely the same way as our 
British sweet, but owing their differential qualities 
to the care and daintiness of their preparation, as 
everyone who has tasted a real crejpe a derUelle {^^c 
lace pancake) will readily acknowledge, though it is 
really only a very thin, liqueur-flavoured wafer of 
batter. Moreover, it is to this mistake that the 
English cook's failure in omelets is greatly due, as 
the dear good soul cannot be made to imderstand 
that an omelet is not an extra thick pancake cooked 
on both sides. 



PAXCAKES, FRITTERS, ic. 4i 

The following method maj be reicaziimesideol to 
the novice. Break thiee or four xerv fresh irhole 
eggs into a hasin ani mix them -wiiih about a tea- 
spoonful of sifted sugar and a feir drops of essence 
of Tanilla (or anj other flaroTir to taste^ a good tea- 
spoonful of liqnenr being of ^en usei in Prance ', 
together with a tinj dust of salt; beat them all 
lightly together for a few minirtes. then put into a 
pan about loz. of batter for the £rst two eg^gs, and 
a short ^oz. for each esg oxer this nnmber, allowing 
this to froth up well in the pan ; now ponr in the 
sweetened and flaronred egg, and let it cook for a 
few seconds over a dear, glowing (but not fierce) 
fire till a film of cooked e^s has formed on the 
tinder side; to asoertaia if this has formed, tilt the 
pan a litUe, and if leadv a pnfE or two of steam will 
escape. Now lift the edge of the omelet with the 
broad blade of a palette knife (if at hand\ and 
allow as mnch of the still liquid egg as vou can to 
run under the omelet, repeating this process till no 
liquid is left to run, when you slide the omelet off 
the pan on to the dish, folding it over as vou do so 
and serve at once with a dust of sifted vanilla or 
other sugar over it. This plain sweet omelet should 
not have even the under side coloured; it should 
just be a bright golden yellow, the top surface being 
little if at all more set than buttered eggs; for 
^gs cook on after they leave the fire, so that if 
you left them in the pan till the upper surface was 
properly cooked the omelet would be shoe-leather by 
the time it reached the dining room. This is the 
well-known omelette sticrce, K you wish for an 



4G 



^^^^^«e aux conn, ^^^' 

^*i a red J,^* . ' *^®° sift «„ J ^ ^* as Ton ^ 

f°' *ie purpose ^^°* ^^^'-er or Zj? '°"^««rf' 

*^e omelet L^l^, ^°'" ^^ oneUtU^ ^'^ oiad 

;Poonf„i„f^';^«efyas before, oS;«.'-'^"»» «^ 

Ver of apricot o;anv."°. ^«^7 to^f ^"««^d) 
^* °^er quieklv on 7 "'^ ^"^ over t£ ' 'P«««i a 
^«sted with siflr *" ^ iot dish ^^'^^H fold 

^Wespoonfujg of v *^^ ''ed hofT ^*^ aoj* 
about to ser.e ll IT^'^^^ it, atd S' ^"^ C 
,^P'"t> ligit the res! f !. *" * *easpo,Sf , *" ^'^^ a^ 

* «« the table flaS„ ^' ^P^'* S^^ °^ ^^'^^J 
J*« ^ith it bur .^- ^iis oinejTf *^*' ^ad set 

^^'■«a. though tlT ^/ '"«»«- St fl'"*^ "«* C 

for instance, add a ^J ^ ''^"ed 4^«^ ?^"*»P«>tb. 
ep, spread the o '^,°°°^"^ of ^^Tl^^^^'^y. 

^•ound it T> ""^o serve *v7 ■^ '^ith a;«jT 

properly. '^^^-^ it. it .i« J ^eat the jC 

^ie last of fi. P '*s place 

mention is th! ^ '''"e^ets tha+ 

^ * fine 



PAJTCATTES, FRITTERS, &c. 47 

powder with a pinch of powdered yanilla or any 
spice to taste), and a tiny dust of salt. Meanwhile 
whip the egg whites till they are as stiff as it is 
possible to get them (they should cut clean with a 
knife if sufficiently whipped), then mix them lightly 
and quickly with the yolks, &c., and pour the mixture 
into a well buttered, shallow piedish, and set it in a 
moderate oven for eight to ten minutes till it has 
risen thoroughly, and serve at once. An omelette 
soufflee must wait for no man or no thing! It is 
wise when the mixture is piled up in the piedish to 
make two or three cuts with a clean knife to divide 
it, or else the first stroke of the spoon in helping 
it, will tear the surface skin, and let it all fall at 
once. 

Souffles. — ^A souffle is really, I suppose, a form of 
pudding, but owing to the batter which forms its 
basis, whether sweet or. savoury, it is best included 
in this chapter. It is not really difficult to make a 
souffle, granted an intelligent cook, and a moderate, 
evenly heated oven. Proceed first to make the 
foundation batter exactly as you would any good 
white sauce, i.e., melt loz. of fresh butter over the 
fire and incorporate with it loz. of fine sifted flour 
(for variety's sake rice flour, or creme de riz, or 
potato flour may be used for this), allowing it to 
cook gently together for four or five minutes till 
thoroughly blended, when you moisten it with a gill 
of new milk and let it all come to the boil together, 
stirring it well ; now lift it off the fire and stir into 
it for, say, a souffle d la vanille, loz. of caster sugar, 
and about half a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, 



4S SWEETS. 

then wlien it is nearly cold work in, one at a time, 
three egg yolks, beating in one well first before 
adding in the next. As soon as these are all well 
blended stir in quickly and lightly the whites of the 
eggs whipped to a very stiff froth, and pour it all 
into a plain mould round which you have fastened a 
band of white paper projecting from one and a half 
to two inches above the mould ; this latter should 
be about half full, as it rises tremendously. Bake 
in a moderate oven for half an hour for the aboTe 
quantities, or if you divide it up into small souffle 
cases (mind these are well papered), they will take 
about ten to twelve minutes if very small, or two or 
three minutes longer if larger. If you prepare a 
souffle as above, omitting 2oz. of the sugar, repladng 
it with 2oz. of finely grated vanilla chocolate, you 
have a souffle au chocolat ; whilst if you make the 
souffle by the first recipe, only using rice flour 
instead of common flour, and flavouring it with 
four or five crushed ratafies, and a drop or two 
of essence of ratafie, you have the French souffle 
au riz. If you wish to make fresh fruit BOufflSi, 
you mash the fruit (either cooked, or raw, accord- 
ing to circumstances), till for the above quanti- 
ties you have obtained about a gill of pulp, 
which you sweeten and flavour to taste according 
to the kind of fruit (e.g., maraschino with straw- 
berries, noyeau with apricots, kirsch with cherries, 
<fcc.), then stir it hot into the hot foundation batter^ 
adding the eggs one by one, and finishing ofl 
precisely as before. It is very nice if you do not 
use quite the gill of pulp, but add in a little of the 



PANCAKES, FRITTERS, &c. 49 

fruit chosen, raw and cut up, at the last, with the 
-white of eggf but remember 1;hat if you add heavy 
solid fruit it will be well to allow an extra egg 
white to make up for this. Souffles can be steamed 
quite as well as baked, if the mould, buttered and 
papered as before, be stood in a pan of boiling 
water up to three parts its height, a buttered paper 
placed over the top of the souffle, and the water 
BiuTOunding it kept gently boiling all the time till 
the souffle is cooked. It can then be turned out and 
served with any sauce to taste. If preferred the 
mould can be caramelled as for creme an caramel 
before pouring in the souffle mixture. 

A very light form of souffle, known as a mousse, is- 
particularly delicate, though any cook who hat 
mastered the art of souffle making can manage this. 
The mixture is precisely as before save that an extra 
egg is used, and a spoonful or two of stiffly whipped 
cream are added in at the last, before turning the 
mixture into the buttered and papered mould. This 
kind of sweet requires very gentle steaming, and 
some dexterity in turning out or it will fall apart 
from its own lightness. Souffles and mousses may 
be made with preserved ginger, pineapple, &c., as 
well as with any preserved fruit ; the initial batter 
should be flavoured with about a tablespoonful of 
the syrup for the above quantities, 2oz. or 3oz. of the 
solid fruit being added in at the last, cut into dice 
just before putting in the whites of the eggs. 



B 



CHAPTEE IV. 

CUSTAEDS AND CEEAMS. 

Custards are generally made of eggs and milk 
variously flavoured, cooked over a fire just sufficientlj 
hot to cook and stiffen the eggs without actually 
boiling, and consequently curdling or toughening 
them. For this reason when making custards it is 
hest to use either a bain-marie or else to place the 
pan or jug containing the custard in a larger pan 
full enough of boiling water to reach three parts 
up the sides of the inner pan. The mixture is then 
stirred (if intended for an actual English custard) 
till sufficiently thick for the purpose for which it 
is made. If, however, it is to be used for French 
jpetits pots a la cremey a sweet very popular abroad 
and much appreciated by British tourists, though 
seldom seen this side of the channel, it is prepared 
thus : Boil a piece of vanilla pod about two inches 
long in a pint of new milk, with 2oz. to 3oz. of loaf 
sugar, till the milk is well flavoured and sweetened 
(this will take about three minutes), when you mix 
into this milk, off the fire, the well- beaten white 
of one and the yolks of three eggs ; then strain the 



OUSTAEDS AND CREAMS. 61 

whole into the little pots (tiny china pans with 
covers always used for this dish in France ; the tiny 
earthenware marmites of fireproof ware, glazed 
inside, sold for potage d la petite marmite, answer 
admirably for these creams) and stand these either 
in the bain-marie or in a pan half full of boiling 
water, and leave them over the fire until they are 
quite set, when you lift them off the fire and stand 
them in a cool, place until perfectly cold, when (and 
not till then) they must be covered with the little 
lids of the pots. Another and perhaps simpler way 
is to stir the custard in the usual wav till all but 
boiling (if they actually boil they will curdle), then 
lift the pan off at once and pour the custard into the 
little pots, which should be surrounded to three 
parts their depth in cold water, and leave them till 
perfectly cold and set, when they may be covered. 
It may be mentioned here that if in making custard 
you accidentally let it boil up, it may be saved by at 
once standing the pan in a basin of cold water, at 
the same time whisking the custard sharply with 
a fork. But undoubtedly the best plan is never to 
let it boil up. 

These petite pots may be variously flavoured to 
taste, I.e., by the addition of 2oz. or 3oz. of grated 
vanilla chocolate, or of a gill of strong coffee to the 
same amount of milk (allowing four instead of three 
egg yolks if the coffee is chosen) ; or, in short, 
any flavouring which may be added to custard. 
Custards are made in many qualities according to 
the use they are to serve, and to the pocket of the 
maker. For instance — I. Mix a tablespoonful of 

E 2 



I 



52 SWEETS. 

cornflour to a very smooth paste with a little cold 
milk taken from a pint, and stir to this loz. to 2oz. 
of caster sugar, the rest of the milk being then 
poured to it boiling, when it is well stirred together 
and allowed to boil for a few minutes ; then it is 
poured on to a whole egg beaten and strained, the 
pan being now returned to the fire and the whole 
gently stirred till it thickens. (To judge when 
a custard is ready, watch it thickening till it will 
coat the spoon used in stirring it, evenly, and rather 
thickly.) If the milk is poor, or short, when making 
this custard add a spoonful or so of condensed milk 
to it. This custard can naturally be flavoured to 
taste, and is far nicer if carefully made than it 
reads. (An inferior edition of this custard, made 
with skim milk enriched with one or two spoonsful 
of condensed milk, sugar, cornflour, and egg powder 
is the foundation of the cheap " cream " (so-called) 
ices sold in the streets in summer.) !Remember 
that if for eating with fruit, either grated lemon 
peel (or a piece of lemon rind) or a piece of stick 
vanilla boiled with the milk in the first instance is 
to be preferred to any other flavouring, as lemon or 
vanilla increase the flavour of fruit to a wonderful 
extent, 11. Boil up a pint of milk with any flavour- 
ing to taste, 2oz. or 3oz. of sugar, and two or three 
sheets of French leaf gelatine, then pour this as 
before on to two or three eggs beaten and strained, 
and stir it all over the fire till it has thickened 
properly. III. Three-quarters of a pint of milk, a 
gill of cream, the yolks of four eggs, with sugar and 
flavoming to taste. (This is very good for trifles. 



CUSTARDS AND CREAMS. 53 

tipsy cakes, &c.) IV. Put into a jug a pint of cream, 
ike jolks of six eggs, 3oz. or 4oz. of sugar, and any 
flaYOuring to taste ; stir this lightly together, then 
stand the jug in the bain-marie, or in a panful of 
warm (not hot) water, and stir it over the fire till the 
water comes almost to boiling point and the custard 
thickens properly. If liked, this may be enriched 
by a gill of the cream being whipped and stirred 
to the custard when cool, just before moulding or 
otherwise using it. This is, of course, the richest 
form of custard, but the gradations may be infinitely 
Taried between the egg powder and cornflour custard 
first given, to this one, by varying the number of the 
e^s and the quality of the milk or cream used. 
These custards can be moulded by the addition of 
gdatine in the proportion of one-third to one-half 
an ounce of the best leaf gelatine (Mrs. A. B. 
Marshall's leaf gelatine is the kind I use) to each 
pint of milk used. Remember, however, when 
adding gelatine to these custards always to boil it 
up first with the milk, and then strain it on to the 
^gs, as this- prevents any risk of the lumps of india- 
rubber-like substance often found in jellies and 
. creams stiffened with gelatine, and considered by 
the average cook to be the result of coarse gelatine, 
though in reality it proves that she has not properly 
dissolved it. These moulded custards, which can of 
course be flavoured to taste, are in France known as 
harxirois a la whatever they are flavoured with, 
whilst the plain custard is called creme. The 
English cream is made after a slightly different 
pattern; it is really, as its name implies, made 



54 SWEETS. 

with pure cream and fruit pur^, obtained either 
by mashing the raw fruit through a pulper or sieTe, 
or by using sieved jam, sweetening it duly, and 
worHng it with an equal quantity of stifBy whipped 
cream and some fine leaf gelatine dissolyed in water ; 
the proportions are for half a pint fruit pulp and 
half a pint cream, loz. leaf gelatine dissolved in a 
very little water, or milk, and sugar to taste. For 
instance, stalk a pound of strawberries, and crush 
them through a sieve into a basin ; add to this puree 
6oz. or 8oz. of sifted sugar and the juice of a lemon, 
dissolve l|oz. of gelatine in a very little milk or 
water, and add it to the fruit, ilien stirring in 
lightly one and a half pints of stiffty whipped cream; 
stand a well rinsed mould (three-pint size) in ice, 
pour in the mixture, cover the mould either with its 
own cover or with a delicately clean stewpan lid» 
put some ice on this and leave it till set. These 
creams, properly so-called, are to most palates more 
delicate than the heavier havaroisy a still more 
delicate cream being produced by omitting the 
gelatine and simply whisking together the thick 
cream and the well-sweetened fruit pulp, but this 
last form, though very delicious, has the objection 
that it will not mould. It is well to remember that 
when mixing fruit puree with cream the former 
must be well sweetened or it will curdle the cream 
from the acid in the fruit. 

Fetites Crcmes en Surprise, — Dissolve an ounce of 
leaf gelatine in three-quarters of a pint of new milk 
with 3oz. or 4oz. of sugar (this depends on the fruit 
used), and when perfectly dissolved set it aside to 



CUSTARDS AND CREAMS. 55 

cool. Have ready some little paper or china cases, 
and lialf fill these with any nice small fruit, such as 
wood strawberries, stoned cherries, mulberries, 
currants, ^., dusting these lightlj with sugar, and 
sprinkling them either with lemon juice, maraschino, 
or any other liqueur to taste ; now when the milk, 
gelatine, A^-, is cool, but still liquid, mix into it 
very carefully a gill of stiffly whipped cream, and,. 
just as it is all setting, pile it up over the fruit and 
set the little cases on ice or in a cold place till £rm. 
This sweet may be varied almost indefinitely by 
varying the fruit and the quality of the custard. 

Fetits BaXlettes en Surprise. — Prepare one and a. 
half pints of custard (the richer the better) stiffened 
with leaf gelatine as above, and pour this whilst hot 
on to 8oz. of brown bread crumbs (which should 
have been made from a stale loaf and carefully 
sieved), loz. of crushed ratafies, a spoonful of brandy 
or liqueur, and a drop or two of essence of almonds ; 
cover the basin containing this, and leave it till cool,. 
then stir in a gill of stiffly whipped cream and with 
this line rather thickly some ballette moulds. When 
nearly set fill up the centre with any rich compote of 
cold fruit, or any nice fresh fruit marinaded in 
liqueur syrup, and a little melted jelly, close up the 
ballette moulds and leave till set. Serve on a bed 
of chopped lemon jelly. Any custard and any fruit 
can manifestly be used for this dish. 

AdvokacU. — This is a Dutch (and fearfully rich) 
custard, and is usually served in cups or a china 
bowl, and handed with a silver punch ladle for what 
we should call five o'clock tea, though in Holland, 



66 SWEETS. 

as in Germany, it is the kaffeehlatsche time. Whisk 
the yolks of twelve eggs till creamy, then add gradu- 
ally two wineglassf uls of good brandy or rum, 3oz. of 
caster sugar, and either vanilla essence or powdered 
cinnamon to taste. A delicious variante of this is 
made by adding brandy and the flavouring here 
given to a pint or so of the richest form of custard, 
together with about loz. of leaf gelatine (dissolved in 
the milk of which the custard is made). Now line a 
mould with coffee jelly subsequently given, then fill 
it with alternate layers of the custard and the coffee 
jelly, allowing each to set pretty well before adding 
the next, and leave it on ice till set. These cremes 
panachees are very pretty, and not at all difficult to 
make. Any kind of jelly and fruit may be used, 
but remember that for cremes such as the one given 
above, and known as creme a la hollandaise, it is well 
to increase the proportion of eggs in the custard, 
reducing the quantity of milk, and always adding a 
few spoonsful of stiffly whipped cream at the last. 
A very good formula for the jelly for this purpose is 
the following: Dissolve |oz. of best leaf gelatine 
with ^Ib. of sugar in a pint of water, with a few 
drops of vanilla essence and the whites of two eggs. 
Let it all just boil up, then lift it off the fire, let it 
stand for five minutes, when you strain it through 
the jelly bag, adding as you do so a liqueurglassful 
of liqueur, spirit, or wine to taste. This is sufficient 
to a quart mould when used with about a pint of 
custard and a gill of whipped cream. 

Creme Valois. — Prepare a pint and a half of rich 
custard, and halve it; to three-quarters of a pint 



CUSTARDS AND CREAMS. 57 

add (when cool but gtill liquid) half a gill of 
whipped cream, and pour it into a mould, keeping 
the rest of the custard in the bain-marie to prevent 
its setting. When the custard in the mould is firm, 
lay in the centre, lightly piled up, some sliced sponge 
or Madeira cake, spread with any nice jam and mois- 
tened (but not soaked and consequently pappy) with 
any liqueur or liqueur syrup to taste, being careful 
this filling does not touch the sides of the mould ; 
then fill up with the rest of the custard to which you 
have added a spoonful or two of whipped cream. 
The flaTouring of this must manifestly depend on 
the jam and liqueur used. Lastly, before giving 
some hints on custard puddings, recipes may be 
given for a havarois made with any of the jelly 
tablets now so popular, and for economical whipped 
cream. 

Bartana Cream, — ^Dissolve a pint tablet of lemon 
jelly in half a pint of water, then add to it 6oz. or 
8oz. of bananas peeled and pulped with a little sugar, 
a good tablespoonful of apricot jam, and three or 
four tablespoonsful of maraschino liqueur or syrup, 
a squeeze of lemon juice, and a gill of whipped 
cream or custard, and mould in the usual way. Any 
fruit can be used thus. 

Economical Cream. — ^Por this boil up a pint of 
milk with ^oz. of best leaf gelatine till this is 
dissolved; have ready a stiffly whipped gill of 
cream, sweetened and flavoured to taste. As soon 
as the stiffened milk has cooled and just as it is 
banning to set, whisk it lightly and thoroughly, 
sti^rring in at the last gradually the stiffly whipped 



58 SWEETS. 

cream. This ** cream" can be used either for 
meringues, trifles, &c., or, if poured into a jelly-lined 
mould and left to set, is an excellent addition to any 
comp6te, stewed fruit, Ac, and is much to be pre- 
ferred to the mixture of whipped egg white and 
cream adopted by some economical housewives. 

Few people wUl deny the excellence of a really 
well made custard pudding, even if it be only the 
baked custard pudding of one's infancy; but it 
must be confessed that it is difficult to find anything 
much more repulsive than the same sweet badly 
made; yet in itself it is not a difficult dish to 
produce. The only genius it needs is that which 
consists in the capacity for taking pains — ^intelli- 
gently ! 

To begin with, it must be remembered that, 
however simple its ingredients, the texture of every 
custard pudding should be smooth, even, and cut 
clean like a jelly. A custard pudding that is full of 
holes, is broken, and curdled, has been cooked in too 
great heat, or allowed to boil in the process. If it is 
found to be tough and spongy in consistency, it has 
been cooked too fast, though the oven may have 
been fairly right in temperature. The reason is that 
you have to obtain just (and only just) sufficient 
heat to thoroughly cook the egg, of which the 
custard is principally composed. So remember that 
if baked, the oven must be a very slow one, and the 
dish containing the pudding should be stood in a 
baking-tin three parts full of water, which water 
must never be allowed, during the whole time of 
cooking, to do more than simmer. If steamed, place 



CUSTARDS AND CREAMS. 59 

the pudding in the steamer whilst the water below it 
is just boiled up; then draw the pan to the side and 
keep the water only simmering henceforward till the 
pudding is cooked. Especially is this attention 
necessary in the case of the richer forms of custard 
pudding, as these, being usually made with the 
yolks of the ^gs only, need the utmost attention, 
both in the cooking and in the subsequent turning 
out. The fewer whites in proportion to the yolks 
used the richer and more delicate will be the custard, 
but also the more- troublesome to handle. Here is 
the original nursery pudding: Boil three-quarters of 
a pint of milk with an ounce or two of lump sugar, 
and a bay leaf, a strip of thinly pared lemon rind, 
an inch or two of vanilla pod, or the same of stick 
cinnamon, as you choose, till the milk is well 
flavoured ; have two whole eggs, ready beaten, in a 
basin, and to these pour the boiled milk slowly, 
beating it well all the time of mixing. When 
blended, pour it into a pie dish that has been either 
well buttered or thoroughly rinsed out with cold 
water; grate a little flavouring over the top, to 
correspond with that originally used, and bake in a 
slack oven ; or, if you are doubtful as to the oven, 
stand the piedish in a baking tin of water, and so 
bake. K preferred, you may flavour this with any 
essence to taste, but in that case the flavouring 
should not be added until after the egg and milk 
have been mixed and the whole is slightly cooled. 
This pudding may be enriched by edging the dish 
with a rim of short or pufE paste and using part 
cream instead of all milk, or by increasing the 



eO SWEETS. 

number of eggs, of which, in that case, the whites 
may be omitted. For instance, the yolks of four 
eggs may be used for the above quantity of milk 
with excellent effect. The same pudding is very 
nice if steamed instead of baked, but it will not turn 
out, as there is not sufficient egg in the mixture 
to give it the requisite consistency. For a pudding 
that will turn out you must allow three whole eggs 
for each half pint of milk used. If you once master 
the cooking of the simpler forms of custard pudding 
you will have little or no difficulty in producing the 
more complicated kinds; only remembering that 
nothing but great care and some practice will make 
you successful in preparing them with the egg yolks 
only, which you must do for the richer kinds. 

Granted, however, that you have only so far 
mastered the simpler form of custard, you can 
produce very dainty little dishes. For instance, 
there is the caramel pudding, which is prepared 
thus : For a j)int mould (which is required for the 
proportions given above) put about 2oz. of white 
sugar into the mould, with a full tablespoonf ul of 
water, or preferably lemon juice, for each ounce of 
sugar, and set the tin on the hottest part of the 
stove till the sugar dissolves and colours, being 
careful to keep it stirred that it may colour evenly. 
It should be the shade of dark brown sherry when 
ready. Now lift the tin with a cloth wrung out of 
hot water, and turn the tin round and round sharply 
so as to coat the inside evenly all over ; then either 
dip the outside of the tin in cold water or put it 
aside for a few minutes till the caramel has sot like 



CUSTAEDS AND CREAMS. 61 

toffy, when you pour in the above mixture through a 
strainer ; stir it lightly together, then lay a sheet of 
buttered paper over it, set the mould in a stewpan 
full of boiling water, just draw it to the side, and 
let the water simmer till the pudding is done, which 
it will be if on touching the centre with your finger 
it will resist. When ready lift out the mould, wipe 
it round outside, turn the dish it is to be served on 
over it, and turn the two over together, when, if the 
caramelling is perfect, the whole pudding will slip 
out with ease. Another form of this pudding is 
made by stirring sufficient of the caramel left over 
after the mould is lined into the custard mixture till 
it is nicely coloured. This is the sweet usually 
known in France as cr^me au caramel. If made 
with cream and e^ yolks only, and served cold, it 
would be called a bavarois, obtaining its distinctive 
title from the flavouring added to it. A very pretty 
cold dish can be made by cooking the custard, 
flavoured to taste in the usual way, stirring it over 
the fire (the pan containing the custard being stood 
in another three-parts full of water) till pretty thick, 
dissolving in it whilst hot about one-eighth of an 
ounce of best leaf gelatine for each half pint of 
milk ; it is then allowed to cool a little and poured 
into a glass dish, and when set a layer of caramel is 
poured over it about a quarter of an inch thick. 
This can then be served plain, or, if liked, a meringue 
of stiffly whipped egg whites and caster sugar, 
variously flavoured and coloured, or stifily- whipped 
cream similarly treated, may be heaped over it to 
taste. It must be remembered that in preparing 



62 SWEETS. 

caramel care must be bestowed on the cooking, as, if 
the beat is insufficient, tbe sugar will dry up and 
crystallise instead of dissolving and mixing witb the 
liquid; whereas if too hot the caramel will colour 
too quickly, bum, and acquire a distinctly acrid 
flavour. For the latter there is no remedy save 
a fresh brew ; for the former, draw the pan to a hot 
part of the stove, add a little more liquid to replace 
that evaporated, and begin the process over again. 

Needless to say that, if preferred, the mould may 
be simply buttered, garnished with any nice crystal- 
lised or dried fruit, and then filled up with the 
custard and finished as before, Bemember in 
steaming any cream or custard to place a doubled 
sheet of kitchen paper at the bottom of the pan 
with the water, on which to stand the mould con- 
taining the custard, as this prevents the undue 
hardening and toughening of the top (when turned 
out) from the closer contact of the beat. 

These custard puddings may be varied almost 
indefinitely. For instance, an ounce of chocolate, 
grated fine, mixed with the custard will produce a 
creme au chocolat (if the original custard be rich 
enough to justify the French title) ; a gill of strong 
coffee for each pint of milk or cream will make a 
praiseworthy coffee cream ; or an ounce of blanched 
and chopped almonds stirred into 4oz. of sugar 
(previously dissolved over a slow fire till lightlv 
coloured), and stirred together till the almonds are 
nicely browned ; when they are spread out on a sheet 
of oiled paper or dish to cool, then crushed to a fine 
powder (a few of the larger pieces being kept intact 



CUSTARDS AND CREAMS. 63 

or a few almonds may be finely shred and cooked 
with the rest, but not pounded), and mixed with a 
very rich cream custard, the larger bits of almond 
being stirred in at the last, gives creme pralinee ; or 
it may be served in a pastry case and garnished with 
stiffly whipped cream flavoured with liqueur, as 
vacherin a la creme. For such use, however, the 
richest form of custard should be chosen, and a gill 
or more of stiffly-whipped cream be stirred in lightly 
for each pint of custard. If to a very rich custard 
be added stoned raisins, preserved ginger, and 
candied citron peel cut into dice, with a flavouring 
of liqueur, it is known as creme a la Beine Marguerite, 
If you blanch and then pound to a smooth paste 
about 4oz. of sweet almonds and one or two bitter 
ones, and infuse them for an hour or so in a table- 
spoonful of new milk, then mix it with the custard 
(one pint for this), flavouring it with a spoonful of 
brandy and a few drops of ratafie, then stirring in 
some shred candied citron peel and finishing ofE as 
before, it becomes creme a la Kaiser, A teaspoonful 
of essence of vanilla, half a teaspoonful of rose- 
water, three spoonsful of brandy, and one of mara- 
schino, with 2oz. or 3oz. of blanched and minced 
almonds, will produce, when added to a pint of rich 
custard, creme a la Czarina. In short, as the above 
shows, the variety in custard puddings or cremes is 
simply bounded by the capacity of the operator. 

Needless, almost, to say that these puddings are 
equally good cold, and if moulded in china moulds, 
or in jelly-lined tin ones (for the metal would dis- 
colour the cream) make very dainty havarois or 



fc'4 SWEETS. 

cremes. The remains of cold custard pudding make 
praiseworthy cream fritters hy cutting the cold stiff 
custard into squares, lozenges, &c. Strew them 
with fine biscuit crumbs, then brush over with 
egg and again crumb them, then fry in plenty of 
boiling fat, drain well, dust with sugar, and serve 
plain or with jam sauce. They should be crisp 
outside and soft and creamy witliin. 



CHAPTER V. 

PUDDINGS. 

It is so manifestly impossible, in a book of this si/x*, 
to give even a tithe of the pudding recipes one coukl 
collect, that it seems best to give first the general 
directions which may help the novice to ^^ork out 
the various formula which follow reduced to the 
merest skeletons. These directions apply to all 
puddings of the same class, so that by their means 
it should need but little experience to make a work- 
able recipe out of even the vaguest descriptions 
which occasionally pose as correct directions. 
Undoubtedly at the head of the British pudding 
tribe comes the suet pudding in some shape or form. 
This starts with the utmost simplicity, as follows : — 
Suet Dumpling. — ^Remove all skin and fibre from 
ilb. of good beef suet, mince it very finely, and 
crumble it up with lib. of flour, to which you have 
sifted a pinch of salt ; then stir in one whole egg, 
and work it rapidly to a nice paste with a wooden 
spoon, adding gradually sufficient water (about a 
gill) to get it to the right consistency — i.e., too soft to 
handley but too thick to powr. Wring a delicately 

F 



66 SWEETS. 

clean pudding cloth out of hot water, flour it, ladle 
the pudding mixture into it bj spoonfuls, tie it up 
firmly, plunge it into fast boiling water, and keep it 
boiling in a closelj covered pot till cooked ; then 
turn it out, and serve very quickly and very hoi 
This is excellent served with roast meat and gravy, 
or it can be served with treacle or golden syrup, 
Demerara sugar, or a jam sauce, &c, as a sweet. 
Usually for a sweet, however, it is made somewhat 
richer — i.e., 6oz. of very finely shred suet are allowed 
for each ^Ib. of flour, with two eggs, and the juice of 
a lemon for the above quantities, to which you add 
from 6oz. to 8oz. of whatever gives the pudding it-s 
distinctive feature — say, finely shred apple, shred 
figs, dried fruit, jam, golden syrup, Ac. — a little 
spice, wine, &c., being added to taste if liked. Then 
again, many cooks use dried and sifted bread- 
crumbs in conjunction with the flour — say, 6oz. of 
crumbs to 2oz. of flour, and allow a small liqueur- 
glassful of brandy or wine, and a little milk to the 
ibove quantities. The above makes a pretty rich 
pudding, but a plainer one is produced by omitting 
the eggs, replacing them with about one and a hafi 
gills of water, using only half the weight of suet that 
you have of flour, adding, however, a small teaspoon- 
f ul of baking powder for each ^Ib. of flour. When 
once these proportions are fixed in one's memory, it 
is easy enough to work out almost any formula. 
(Remember that all the dry ingredients should be 
thoroughly mixed together before adding a drop of 
liquid, and if baking powder is used they must be 
cooked as soon as mixed.) This same mixture — i.e.y 



PUDDINGS. e? 

|ll>. of flour mixed with a pinch of salt (and, if liked, 
half a teaspoonfol of baking powder; this, however, 
is a matter of taste, not necessity), 6oz. of finely 
shred suet (weighed after mincing), mixed to a paste 
with about a gill of water and the juice of half a 
lemon, can be rolled out into a long oblong strip, and 
spread with jam, mincemeat, lemon curd, golden 
syrup, currants, raisins, <&c., mixed with brown 
sugar and lemon rind, leaving about an inch 
dear all the way round the edge of the paste. 
Wet this clear space, and then roll up the pudding 
eyenly and firmly, but not too tightly, turn in 
the ends neatly, and press down the outer edge 
firmly. Have ready a pudding cloth, scalded 
and floured (if Uked a Uttle brown sugar may 
be mixed with the flour, as some people hold 
that it improves the subsequent appearance of the 
pudding), and roll the pudding up in this rather 
loosely to allow room for swelling ; tie the ends of 
the cloth very tightly close up to the ends of the roll, 
and then either tack or pin down thd cloth, using 
three or four pins to keep the roll nice and even. H 
only one pin were used the pudding would have a 
waist where the pin was, and would bulge beyond. 
Remember that if minced apple is used for this 
rolled pudding (and, indeed, whenever apple is 
used), sweeten it with brown cane sugar, and season 
lightly with powdered cloves, as this brings out the 
flavour ; so also does a bayleaf , or a slice or two of 
quince minced with the apple. In using treacle or 
golden syrap always remember to add three or four 
spoonfuls of fine sifted bread crumbs, with a little 

t 2 



ed SWEETS. 

grated lemon rind to each |lb. of treacle used. Also 
always warm the treacle in the oven first, to make it 
flow easily, as this saves wastes. The same paste is 
used for fruit puddings, rolled out Jin. thick, m a 
circle about half as large again as the width of the 
basin. Line the well-buttered basin with this crust, 
smoothing out any creases, and drawing up the paste 
well to the edge, to form a rim to which to fix the 
cover after the basin is filled. Mind in filling this 
pudding to heap the fruit well up in the centre, or 
when the fruit shrinks as it cooks the crust shrinks, 
and then gets sodden. It is well to put most of the 
sugar into the pudding after putting in the first 
layer of fruit, then covering this again with more 
fruit, dusting this well also on top with more sugar, 
and adding two or three spoonfuls of water or 
s;;/up if the fruit is not very juicy. One point with 
regard to suet puddings must never be forgotten, 
and that is the time they take to cook. A pudding 
weighing about a pound all told will take on an 
average from two and a half to three hours' boiling, 
according to its richness; a plum pudding of a 
medium size will take fully seven or eight hours 
steady boiling, and will not be spoiled even by a 
longer time. A small suet pudding of any khid, 
boiled in a basin about the size of an average teacup, 
will take an hour. You can tell when the suet rolls 
are cooked by watching the cloth, which, when the 
pudding is cooked, will begin to wrinkle up ; for the 
pudding, as soon as it is done, begins to boil away, 
and then the water gets in and the pudding, when 
served, is foimd sodden and watery. A roly-poly 



PUDDINGS. 69 

pudding, as these are often called, made with the 
quantities previously given, will take from one 
and a half to two hours' boiling, but it is 
always best to watch the cloth. You may either 
boil or steam suet puddings, some liking them 
one way, some the other. Steaming, however, 
takes a little longer than boiling. If the pudding is 
boiled in a cloth it must be plunged into sufficient 
absolutely hoiling water to well cover it, and this water 
must be kept boiliug steadily the whole time the 
pudding is in it, for if it is once allowed to go off the 
boil the pudding will be spoiled. Many people when 
preparing their Christmas puddings follow the good 
old plan of making them six weeks or two months 
before they are actually required, mixing them well 
and boiling them fast for one-half to three-quarters 
of the time they ought to cook ; they then lift them 
out and hang them up in some cool, dry place till 
wanted, when they are plunged again into boiliug 
water and the cooking finished according to the time 
desired. If a suet pudding is cooked in a basin, be 
sure the cloth tied over it is firmly fixed on, or else 
in the cooking, as it swells, it may burst the fasten- 
ings and boil over into the water. For boiled 
pudding, fill the basin up to the brim ; but if to be 
steamed, only three-quarters fill it and place it in the 
steamer covered with a piece of buttered paper. 
Always see in this case also that the surrounding or 
steaming water is kept at the boil all the time and 
the pan in which it is set is kept tightly covered. 
After suet puddimgs come the cake-like puddincfs, 
differing only from actual cakes by the lightness 



70 SWEETS. 

and softer nature of their consistenoj. For these 
jou take the requisite number of eggs, the weight 
of these, in their shells, of flour, one-half to the whole 
of their weight in butter and sugar individually, 
with any flavouring to taste, and either jam or dried 
or candied fruits to taste, with just enough cream or 
milk to bring it to the consistency of melted butter. 
You make thesi puddings very much like cakes, by 
creaming the butter, then beating it with the sugar, 
and Anally beating in the eggs and the flour in 
alternate spoonfuls till all is beaten in ; you then 
continue beating it till it becomes quite white and 
light, when the flavouring, &c., can be added in, and 
the whole poured into the piedish or mould as pre- 
ferred; for these puddings can be either baked or 
steamed. Many cooks beat the eggs separately; 
the yolks till light and no longer ropy, the whites to 
a stiff froth ; in this case they need less beating, 
but must be moulded and cooked at once. And, 
lastly, there are the custard and cake, Ac, puddings. 
For these you have some substance such as cake or 
breadcrumbs, fruit, &c., arranged in a dish or 
mould which this substance would about three, 
quarters fill, then pour to it any more or less rich 
custard flavoured to taste, to fill the mould if to be 
baked, or only three-quarters fill it if to be steamed. 
You will find that 4oz. to 6oz. of cake or bread and 
the same of candied peel, fruit, &c., will be suflB- 
cient for a custard made with half a pint of milk 
and two eggs. Butter the basin or mould, decorate 
it to taste with halved and stoned raisins (putting 
the cut side next the mould), dried cherries, candied 



PUDDINGS. 71 

peely &o., then put in the foundation whatever it 
may be, mixing it with sugar, raisins, almonds, <&c., 
to taste, and finally pour on to it the custard and let 
it all stand to soak for half an hour or so, then 
steam or bake as may be desired. 

Suet Puddinqs. — Flum Pudding, — ^Half a pound 
each of shred suet and well washed and dried currants, 
fib. stoned raisins, four tablespoonfuls of dried and 
sifted breadcrumbs, three tablespoonfuls of dried and 
sifted flour, 5oz sugar, three eggs, 3oz. shredded 
citron, half a nutmeg grated, a teaspoonf ul of brandy, 
and just enough milk to make it all mix. Boil six 
to eight hours. (Observe the proportions, for if too 
much sugar is used the pudding will crumble when 
turned out.) 

Vegetarian Flwm Pudding. — Half a pound of butter 
creamed with 4oz. sugar, 6oz. flour, 2oz. breadcrumbs, 
^Ib. each of currants and raisins, 4oz. candied peel, 
3oz. to 4oz. of almonds, a teaspoonful of mixed 
spiee, SIX eggs, and a tablespoonf ul each of brandy 
and rum. Finish as usual. 

Lemon Pudding. — Six ounces grated breadcrumbs, 
6oz. suet, 4oz. moist sugar, grated rind and juice of 
one lemon, one egg, a pinch of salt, and half a sherry- 
glassfiil of brandy. Boil one and a half to two 
hours. If the lemon and sugar be omitted, and a 
couple of tablespoonfuls of marmalade and an ounce 
of shred candied peel be added, this becomes Golden 
Pudding ; or use 2oz. or 3oz. sweet and loz. bitter 
almonds blanched and shred, 3oz of sugar, and 3oz. 
sultanas, and you have Ahnond Suet Pudding, Or add 
to the first recipe a tablespoonful of golden syrup or 



72 SWEETS. 

treacle, and a teaspoonful of groimd ginger (omitting 
2oz. of the sugar) and you get Ginger Fudding. tt* 
use the first recipe with a gUL of milk instead of the 
brandy, add a tablespoonful of golden syrup, ^Ib. of 
figs cut up small, and a pinch of spice, and it becomes 
Fig Pudding. Or dates may be used in the same 
way, omitting the golden syrup. 

Half-pound Pudding (sometimes called Half-pay 
Pudding), — Half a pound each of suet, flour, bread- 
crumbs, currants, and raisins, a gill of milk, and a 
gill of either brown sugar or golden syrup. Boil 
four or five hours in a well-buttered basin. 

Imperial Pudding. — Have ready 12oz. to 16oz. 
suet crust, and line a basin with some of this rolled 
out very thin, then spread some honey on this, then 
a layer of French plums or dates (stoned), and 
spread this again with apricot jam ; then cover with 
a thin layer of crust, and repeat the fruit and crust 
layers (finishing with the latter), squeezing some 
lemon juice over each layer of paste. It takes IGoz. 
to 12oz. of plums or dates, and 4oz. each of honey 
or apricot jam, and should be steamed fully three 
hours. Treacle mixed with lemon juice and bread- 
crumbs can be used instead of the jam, &c., if pre- 
ferred. Or stoned and chopped raisins and almonds 
may be used, but in this case retain the honey and 
apricot jam, which are omitted when golden syrup is 
used. A nice jam, syrup, or other sauce may be 
served with these puddings, for which the moulds, 
after buttering, should be well dusted with brown 
sugar. This particular pudding may be varied 

G . I.J. 



PUDDINGS. 73 

Paradise Pudding. — Four ounces each of brown 
sugar, breadorumbs, and suet, the grated rind and 
juice of one lemon, six to eight medium- sized apples, 
a good grate of nutmeg, a full tablespoonful of 
brandy or sherry, and three eggs. Cook three and 
a half to four hours, steaming is best. Serve plain 
or with apricot sauce. 

Baiain Pudding (or Plum Buff). — Hall: a pound 
each of flour, breadcrumbs, suet, aii<l stoiuid and 
chopped raisins, one egg, one toaspoouful of baking 
powder (mixed with the flour), and half a teasjjoon- 
ful of mixed spice. Boil for three hours in a cloth. 
Mix with water or milk. 

Welcome Guest Pudding. — Four ounces bread- 
crumbs, 2oz. each of sugar and suet, loz. each of 
blanched and shred almonds and of shred candied 
peel, one egg, the grated rind of a lemon, and a 
teacupful of milk. Steam one and half hours. 
Serve with any nice sauce to taste, or dust the basin 
thickly with brown sugar. 

Preserved Ginger Pudding. — Mix 4oz. each of 
breadcrumbs, suet, and preserved ginger, with two 
well beaten eggs, and two tablespoonfuls of ginger 
syrup, and steam three hours in a well-buttered 
basin. Preserved pineapple is good thus. 

Snowden Pudding. — Four ounces each of suet, 
ground rice, and brown sugar, one egg, 2oz marma- 
lade, and a little milk. Steam three hours. 

Treacle Pudding, — Half a pound eacli of suet, 
flour, currants, and treacle mixed in slowly, moisten 
with one well beaten egg and a gill of milk, and boil 
four hours. N.B. — When using treacle set in the 



74 SWEETS. 

oven till nearly boiling, as it then pours freely and 
so saves waste. 

Saffron Fudding, — Half a pound each of suet^ 
flour, and breadcrumbs ; 2oz. to 4oz. brown • sugar, 
a teaspoonful of mixed spice (or ground ginger), 
three eggs, a little milk, and half a gill of saffron 
water. Boil in a cloth for four hours. For the 
saffron water boil a good pinch of saffron in about 
haK a gill of water till the latter is strongly 
flavoured and of a clear yellow tint. 

Cup Pudding. — One cupful each of flour, ground 
rice, suet, raisins, and milk, one teaspoonful each of 
carbonate of soda and of ground ginger (if liked), 
and a tablespoonful of vinegar. Boil four hours. 
Serve with brandy or any sauce to taste. 

Berkeley Pudding. — Chop very finely 4oz. of suet 
(try Atora suet for this, for if the directions are 
exactly followed this will crumble to a fine dust), 
and mix it with 6oz. fine sifted white breadcrumbs 
and 2oz. fine flour, with 2oz. caster sugar. Work it 
to a dough with one whole egg, the strained juice 
and finely grated peel of one lemon, and just enough 
milk to make it all stiff enough to be moulded into 
a nice round shape, and boil or steam it for three 
hours or more. Serve with a very rich rum- 
flavoured custard over and round it. For this make 
a custard with half a pint of cream, the same of new 
milk, the yolks of four or five eggs, 2oz. of caster 
sugar, and at the very last, when the custard is 
ready, stir in a good spoonful of best rum. 

Cheap Plum Pudding. — Four ounces suet, 2oz, 
each of currtints, and raiaina, two toL\i\^«voo\iivi\A 



PUDDDfGS 



« s 



each of brown sugar and xjf^.'jt^ im^ ^zz,. 
teaspoonfol of ckrbonate of so^ ^^v:*r^^i zx k zil, 
of warm milk, and a§ mainb £:r=r u -ril i:;xJe:^ k 
good stiff batter. Bc«il xwj Lifzn. Z:z. t-ir-rrd 
candied peel is an addit:>3. &:ii :f &:'.t%t ibxj bi^o j^ 
to taste. 

Plmn paddiDg can be perfr»c'iJT Tr-'irOaS-y^z d \la 
pudding is sliced and azTuig>T-i in & \fs^-:z,. kzji ':i«^ 
latter set either in the steama- cr ii. 'iL? 'ul^'Llsslt^ : 
or else heat in the oren, ttir.iir.i: tir: y;a.-'.:. i.-. ji 
panful of boiling water in cot vyj tJzT'jfz 2^ ot-i^ j^ , 
serve with a little more sanoe, kf:. 

Harvest Pudding. — Half a y-yzni ^a^-L cf fo:;^ 
and suety 4oz. moist sogar, V.b. raiidus '■■'ei^Lr-u 
after stoning), two eggs, a p:r.ch of salt, ar-d a litt:- 
milk. Boil five hours in a basin. 

Scrap Pudding, — Soak anv scraps of fe^al^ br*?ad 
for several hours in water or gkim milk, wrizn: xhrzn 
dry in a cloth, weigh when dry, then b*?at them t':\] 
light with a fork. To each ponnd of this bread 
allow 4oz. each of suet, sugar, and raigins, a tea- 
spoonful each of ground gineer and baking powder, 
and one egg beaten up with a little milk; press 
tightly into a well-buttered basin, cover with a 
buttered paper, and steam for two hours. Chopped 
apple, flavoxired with cinnamon or nutmeg, may be 
used instead of the raisins. 

Staffer (a Jewish recipe). — Peel, core, and mince 
21b. of apples, mix with ^Ib. well washed and dried 
currants, 2oz. mixed and shred candied peel, ^Ib. 
moist sugar, the grated riud and juice of a lemon, 
and a little ground dnnamon. ^wi^x ^\^^»\\i^v^^\. 



76 SWEETS. 

it pretty thickly with moist sugar, then line it with 
suet crust rolled rather thin, put a layer of the fruit 
mixture on this, then a layer of paste, and repeat 
these two layers till the dish is full, finishing with 
the paste ; rub this over with moist sugar, and bake 
two hours. 

Zenda Pudding. — Mix 2oz. each of flour, bread- 
crumbs, and suet, with 2^oz. grated cocoanut, 2oz. 
sultanas, and 2oz. caster sugar, and mix to a nice 
past(i with the yolks of three eggs beaten up with 
half a gill of milk. Butter a mould, garnish it 
with angelica, fill with the mixture, cover with a 
buttered paper and steam for one hour. Turn out 
and serve with a whip sauce, made by whisking the 
yolks of two whole eggs in a glass of sherry over 
hot water tiU the eggs thicken. Sweeten to taste 
and use. 

Pittencrief Pudding. — Four ounces each of suet 
and sifted flour, 2|oz. brown (cane) sugar, two 
whole raw eggs, 4oz. sieved raspberry jam, and a 
drop or two of carmine ; stir to this a gill of milk in 
which you have dissolved joz. of bicarbonate of 
soda, and pour the mixture in to a mould previously 
buttered and thickly dusted with cake crumbs ; 
steam for two and a half to three hours, then turn 
out and serve with an iced (if possible) pur^e of 
raspberries and whipped cream. Any rich preserve 
may be used in the pudding, bottled and canned 
fruit being used for purde. This pudding appears 
under a variety of names, according to the jam, Ac., 
used. 

Russian Pudding. — Four ounces each of bread- 



PUDDINGS. 77 

crnmbs and flour, 2cme. each of suet and moist sugar, 
loB. shred candied 'peel^ the grated rind of a lemon, 
with the jolks of two eggs and enough golden syrup 
(with a httJe milk if liked) to make a paste ; lastly, 
add the stiffly whipped whites of the eggs, and 
steam for two and a half hours. Serve with brandy 
or any other sauoe to taste. 



CHAPTEE VI. 

PUDDINGS (Continued). 

Cake and Custard Puddings, &o. — For the cake 
puddings the general proportions are : Eggs, their 
weight (with their shells) in flour ; half (or their 
whole weight) in sugar and butter; flavour to 
taste ; jam, candied or other fruit, as required, with 
just milk or cream enough to bring them to a stiff 
batter, of the consistency of thick melted butter. 
The commonest form of this mixture is 8wi88 BoU, 
of which there are many varieties. For instance: 
Take the weight of the eggs in flour and sugar; 
warm the flour and the sugar, then break the eggs 
separately, and beat the yolks with the sugar for 
ten to fifteen minutes, until it is all light ; then work 
in the flour and the egg whites in alternate spoonfuls ; 
the whites of the eggs must be whipped to the 
stifPest possible froth, and put in very lightly and 
quickly; if really beaten in, the mixture will be 
heavy. Line a tin with buttered paper, and pour the 
mixture on to it about a quarter of an inch thick, and 
bake in a moderate oven, Now turn out, take off 



PUDDINGS. 79 

the paper, wetting it slightly if it sticks at all, spread 
the paste quickly with nice sieved jam, roll it up, 
brush it over with raw egg yolk, roll it in caster 
sugar and let it cool on a reversed sieve ; it requires 
attention whilst cooking, or the sheet of pastry wiU 
brown and harden at the edge and then wiU not roll. 
Another method is to take equal weights of butter, 
sugar, flour, and eggs, creaming together the butter 
and sugar, beating it well, then adding in the eggs 
singly, beating them well in, and lastly the flour 
sifted and warmed, stirring this in very quickly and 
lightly. This paste is also used for Victoria sand- 
wichea (using half a teaspoonful of carbonate of 
ammonia to the pound of flour), sj^reading the pant/o 
sandwich i^usihion, and cutting it into neat Hd^^th, 
diamonds, Ac., as you please. (Petite four% arc also 
made from this mixture, cutting it out with acutt^T, 
spreading the pieces rather thickly with any i(jing to 
taste, and garnishing them with any glace, or dried 
fruit, or nuts, as you please.) About half a teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder to every two or three eggs 
makes this (Genoese) pastry very light, but it dries 
much sooner than if made without this lightening, 
with which a little lemon juice should always be 
used. Needless to observe that this Genoese ])astry 
can be flavoured to taste. 

Austrian Pudding. — Mix together 4oz. each of 
caster sugar and fine bread or cake crumbs ; beat the 
yolks of four eggs till light, and beat them gradually 
to the sugar, &c. Beat the whites of five eggs to 
the stiffest possible froth and mix them lightly to 
the rest, folding, rather than beating, them into the 



80 SWEETS. 

mixture, then poiir it into a generously buttered 
mould and bake in a slow oven. Turn it out, and 
pour over it hot sauce of any kind you like. 
Chocolate, vanilla, or liqueur sauce is excellent with 
this pudding, if to be eaten hot ; if cold, however, 
many cooks pour over it a hot liqueur, or otherwise 
flavoured, syrup, leaving it till soaked and cold, 
and then pour a thin liqueur glace over it. 

Imperial Pudding, — Boil 2oz. of fresh butter in one 
pint of new milk, with the finely minced rind of one 
lemon, a little piece of vanilla stick, and 2|oz 
of sugar ; simmer for fifteen minutes, then mix in 
4oz crhne de riz, previously rubbed down with a gill 
of cold water ; stir this together till it boils, then let 
it cook for ten minutes by the side of the stove, when 
you turn it out into a basin and let it cool. Now 
stir in four whole eggs beaten up, with 4oz. of 
vanilla biscuits crumbled (failing these use sponge 
fingers crumbled, and a good flavouring of vanilla), 
brush a border mould with liquefied butter, dust it 
well with equal parts of flour and caster sugar, pour 
in the mixture, stand the mould on a sheet of 
doubled paper in the bain-marie, surrounded with 
boiling water, to three-quarters of its depth ; bring 
it to the boil, then draw the pan to the side and 
poach the pudding gently for an hour. Turn it out, 
pour one of the sauces recommended for the Austrian 
pudding over it, and serve with a mac^doine of any 
nice fruit in the centre. 

Pine-aiyple Pudding. — Infuse half a vanilla pod in 
one and half gills of new milk for twenty minutes 
in the bain-marie ; mix together 4oz. each of warm 



PUDBDfGS. 81 

butter, fine floiir, and castyer engar vitt lioz, of cremt 
de riz ; \*o\JX the milk on to thifi and stir it over tbo 
fire till it boils up, vben tou lift it off at once and 
let it cool ; nov vork into it ivell the volks of throo 
eggs, and then the irhij»]:»ed whit-es of two and hall 
eggs, and two tablespr»:>nfQls c^f cut up pine-applo. 
Line a plain tnonld with buttered paper, pour in the 
mixture and b-team it for one to one and a quart or 
honrs. Turn it out, garnish with cut-up pine-ap]>lo 
heated in some rum or Hqueur-flavoured smip, aut^ 
send iced cream to table with it. Oannoii or fi\'sli 
fruit can be used for this, and proserrod ginj:^or i^; 
equally nice. 

Marrow Puddhvg, — Put into a basin one full tea- 
cupful of freshly grated crumbs, pour on to thorn 
one pint of boiling new' milk or single cream, a>vor 
it down and let it soak. When thoroucfhlv soak« d, 
stir into it 4oz. verv finelv shred beef marrow (oi 
failing this use veal kidney suet, but it is not s<^ 
delicate), and one large or three small oggs Wtll 
beaten up. Now stir in loz. each of stoned raisins 
and well-cleaned currants, sweeten to ta8t*\ and 
season with nutmeg and cinnamon. Edgt> a pir- 
dish with pufE paste, decorate it neatly, })onr in tin* 
mixture, and bake twenty-five to thirty minut(\s. 

This pudding may be either boiled or stoamcvl i I 
preferred, and can be varied by using dried chorries. 
finely shred candied citron peel, blanched and Hhrod 
ilmonds, &c. It can be re-heated by slicing it. 
warming it in the Dutch oven, and serving it vn 
couronne with brandy, rum, or apricot sauce over 
it 



82 SWEETS. 

Bdkewell Pudding. — There are different methods 
for this, but the commonest is the following : Edge 
a piedish with puff paste, and cover the bottom 
with some good preserve, such as strawberry 
(the preserve originally used), apricot, &c., then 
stir together 4oz. of dissolved butter, 4oz. sifted 
sugar, and loz. freshly ground almonds ; work 
into this the yolks of five eggs, and the stifflv 
whipped whites of two, and when it is well mixed 
pour it into the dish till full, and bake for an 
hour in a moderate oven. For a commoner kind, 
cover the layer of preserve with a rather liquid form 
of Genoese pastry, and bake. If breadcrumbs are 
used instead of the almonds (using about 2oz.) it 
becomes Manchester pudding* 

Chateworth Pudding. — Shake loz. of tapioca into 
half a pint of boiling milk, and stir it over the fire 
for five minutes ; then stir to this, off the fire, one 
gill of fine crumbs, loz. of sugar, and 3oz. of butter. 
Slice down four penny sponge cakes, spread them 
with jam, then cut them into dice ; when the milk, 
&c., is cold, stir into it four eggs, one liqueur-glassful 
of ru «', and one gill of cream; strew a well-buttered 
mould with crushed ratafies, shaking out all that 
do not stick, stir the juice and grated rind of half a 
lemon to the mixture, and pour it into the mould, 
together with the sponge and jam dice, press it 
all down tightly, cover with a buttered paper, and 
steam for two and half hours. Serve witii any nice 
wine or liqueur sauce to taste. 

Sponge Pudding. — ^Mix together one teacupful of 
sifted Vienna flour, half a teacupful of caster sugar. 



PUDDINGS. 83 

one teaspoonful of baking powdei ; now moisten 
this with a tablespoonful o£ butter beaten to a 
cream, and half a gill of milk, and beat all well 
together for ten minutes ; three parts fill a buttered 
mould with this mixture, and bake twenty minutes 
in a moderate oven. This is enough for six persons, 
and can be flavoured to taste with chocolate, liqueur, 
Ac., and be baked either in a border mould or in 
small dariols, and served with compote, jam, or any 
sweet sauce. 

Primrose Fudding. — Make a nice batter with one 
pint and a half of milk, and let it stand for an hour ; 
now stir into it a full pint of primrose pips (the 
flowers freed from stalk and green), pour the mixture 
into a buttered basin, tie down closely, and steam 
an hour. This dish, which is from a very old recipe, 
may be made with cowslips, rose leaves, &c. 

Chocolate Boll. — Beat the yolks of three eggs till 
light, with 3oz. caster sugar, then mix in alternately, 
the stiffly whipped whites of the eggs, and 4oz. fine 
sifted flour. When well mixed, add to it a gill of 
water in which you have dissolved a pinch of car- 
bonate of soda. Bake twelve to fifteen minutes in a 
shallow, well-buttered tin, sprinkling over it two 
tablespoonfuls of milk when baked. Have ready 
an icing made by incorporating 4oz. caster sugar 
and loz. grated chocolate with the stiffly whipped 
whites of four eggs ; lift the paste on to a flat dish, 
and spread it pretty thickly with about half the 
icing, set it in the oven for five minutes, then roll it 
up, pour the rest of the icing over it, and return it 
to the oven for a few minutes to harden this ; serve 



84 SWEETS. 

with the following sauce round it : Beat the white 
of an egg to the stiffest possible froth, then mix 
to it gradually the well-beaten yolk, 3oz. or 4oz. 
caster sugar, and five tablespoonfuls of boiling milk; 
stand the pan containing this in the bain-marie, and 
stir till it thickens, then lift off the fire, add a 
teaspoonful of essence of vanilla and use. 

Austrian Coffee Pudding. — Soak the cinimb of a 
small stale loaf in very strong black coffee. Mix 
together loz. dissolved butter, loz. each of sugar 
and of blanched and chopped almonds, and the weU- 
beaten yolks of four eggs; squeeze the bread out 
lightly, and beat it into the rest of the ingredients. 
Now whisk in lightly the stiffiy whipped whites of 
three eggs, and when of the consistency of a cabinet 
pudding pour into a well-buttered mould, and bake 
in a moderately hot oven, or it may be steamed. 
Serve with the following sauce : Mix about a gill of 
strong clear coffee with three-quarters of a pint of 
rich custard, and stir in the bain-marie till all but at 
boiling point and quite thick, then stir in half a gill 
of thick cream, and the same of maraschino. When 
liqueurs are not liked, vanilla, cinnamon, Ac, may 
be used to taste. 

ChaudeaiL Pudding. — Beat two tablespoonfuls of 
fine sifted flour into the well- beaten yolks of seven 
eggs, being careful to get it all very smooth, then 
Qiix in a short pint of light white wine, 3oz. caster 
sugar, and grated lemon peel to taste ; when well 
blended simmer it till thick, and then let it cool. 
When cold add to it 2oz. dissolved butter and the 
yolks of two more eggs, with a little laore sugar if 



needed; mow mix in lir^ithr ajid qnit^ilT The msSij 
whipped viiTaes cxf libf B?Fen <ss;s^ hjtd hLk€ in & 
weU-butterBd hktoM. Wlhen ukrae p&j*££ bakf^d sifi 
caster sugar tiuddj over tiit t.oj:t, repea-tang Tihis nro 
DF thiee times to &irm a tliidk crnst, and irliBn this is 
browned, serr^ 

NasMM (or marmaiadr j Puddinp. — F.ve onacc*^ 
ma.rTna.lA/^p, 2oi.. to 4oiL frBfiii butier, 4oiE. casLer 
sugar, three eggs. KsBohre tlie butter, and beat 
the rest of the ingredients into it in a marl^le 
mortar, and bake half an hour in a puff-paste lined 
dish. 

Transparemt Pudding. — Beat loz. fresh butter 
gradually into the well-beaten yolks of five and the 
whites of two eggs, with 4oz. of sugar, beating it all 
well. Edge a dish with puff paste, pLioe a layer of 
sliced candied fruit at the bottom, pour the mixture 
on this, and bake one hour in a moderate oven. The 
butter should be slightly warmed. 

Albert Pudding. — Three eggs and their weight (in 
the shell) of butter, caster sugar, and flour. Beat 
the butter to a cream, then beat in the sugar and the 
well-beaten e^^ yolks, and lastly beat in alternately 
the flour and the whites, whipped to a stiff froth. 
Beat well together, and boil or steam four hours. 
Serve with the following sauce: To a pint of 
custard (the richness of this is a matter of taste) 
add a teaspoonful of brandy or liqueur, and one or 
two spoonfuls of finely shred candied peel, previously 
marinaded in a little liqueur syrup. (Romombor, 
when adding liqueur to any sauce, to add it in at 
the last, for if boiled or ovor-heatod tbeso lose their 



86 SWEETS. 

strength, and double tlie quantity is in consequence 
required.) 

If to be used for a diner de parade, tbis pudding 
can baye one or more ounces of raisins (or dried 
cberries), and either lemon juice or vanilla, &c., 
added to it, and be boiled in a buttered mould 
garnished with raisins, shred peel, angelica, <&c., of 
course serving the previous sauce, or with liqueur- 
flavoured whipped cream. 

Chestnut and Vanilla Pudding, — Peel about 
twenty-four chestnuts, then blanch them in boiling 
water till the inner skin will come o£E; now place 
the nuts in a stewpan with enough weak sugar 
syrup, flavoured with vanilla, &c., to cover them, 
and stew them till soft and nearly dry ; then rub 
them through a wire sieve. Have ready a custard, 
made with three-quarters of a pint of new milk, 
three whole eggs and two yolks, and loz. of sugar ; 
whip this over hot water till thick and creamy, 
then let it cool. Line a mould either all over, or in 
a thick cap, with caramel; let this harden, mix the 
chestnut puree with the custard, and pour it into 
the mould (which must be well buttered if only a 
cap of caramel is allowed), cover with a buttered 
paper, set the mould in the bain-marie, watch the 
water re-boil, then draw it to the side and simmer it 
gently but steadily for about an hour. Serve hot or 
cold. For the sauce make a gill of plain sugar and 
water syrup, add to this a tablespoonful of apricot 
jam, and a dessertspoonful of kirsch or maraschino, 
heat it all together without letting it boil, and strain 
over the pudding. The custard should be cold when 



PUDDINGS. 87 

the chestnut puree is added, and may, if liked, be 
enriched with a gill of whipped cream at the last. 
If you have not got a bain-marie it is very easy to 
improvise a steamer thus : Take a small plate or a 
saucer, according to the size of the pan chosen, and 
reverse it in the pan, stand the mould or basin on 
this, then pour in enough boiling water to reach 
about half-way up the mould; watch this re-boil, 
then let it simmer gently till the pudding is cooked. 
A Bapid steamer, to be bought at most good iron- 
mongers, is also excellent for this purpose. When 
putting any pudding of this kind into a bain-marie 
always place a sheet of paper folded under it, to 
prevent the top of the pudding cooking too fast and 
so toughening on the top. 

Banana Pudding. — Butter a plain Charlotte mould 
with dissolved butter, and fill it thus : Peel and slice 
lengthways six or eight good ripe bananas, removing 
every atom of pith or string, and marinade them for 
a little in a liqueur-glassful of rum, the juice of half 
a lemon, and a good dust of sugar. (To marinade 
fruit always lay it flat in a dish, dust well with sugar, 
pour the liquid over it, and let it stand for an 
hour or more, turning it now and again to soak 
it evenly.) Now arrange the fruit in the mould 
crosswise, and then pour in a custard made with 
three or four eggs and 2oz. of caster sugar, with 
flavouring to taste, to the half pint of new milk. 
Pour this in very gradually when cool, so that it 
settles in well, and finish ofb' in the same way as for 
the chestnut pudding just given, only substituting 
strawberry jam and maraschino for the apricot 



88 SWEETS. 

and kirsch there given. If preferred, rum and 
apricot jam are also a good combination for this 
pudding. 

Bailway Pudding, — Mix well together a teacupful 
each of flour and caster sugar, three eggs, and a 
tablespoonful of milk in the order given. Pour 
'nto a well-buttered flat tin, and bake twenty 
minutes. 

Frut Meringue. — Peel, core, and slice l^lb. of 
apples (any fruit will do) into a delicately clean 
stewpan with the thinly pared rind and strained 
juice of a lemon, half a gill of water, and two table- 
spoonfuls of raw sugar. Cook it all gently for 
about one and a half hours, stirring occasionally, 
then sieve it, work into it loz. of butter and the 
well-beaten yolks of three eggs, and pour it all into 
a, well-buttered piedish edged with puff paste. Bake 
in a good oven till the paste is nicely browned ; 
then let it cool, when you pile over it rockily the 
whites of the eggs whipped to the stiffest possible 
froth with 2oz. of caster sugar. Ornament with 
ilired candied peel or fruit, and return to the oven 
bill the meringue is of a pale fawn. Mind it does 
not burn ! A pudding of the same nature is made 
:,lius : Line a well-buttered dish with apricot jam. 
Have ready 4oz. Carolina rice previously swollen in 
A gill of milk, and when cool mix with it l^oz. of 
fresh butter, 8oz. caster su<;ar, a grain of salt, the 
trrated rind of a small lemon, 2oz. of sweet and six 
bitter almonds blanched and cho])ped, and the yolks 
of four eggs, one by one. Pour this into the dish 
uFor the jam, then cover witAi t\ie ^VyV^i^ vA W^^ 



PUDDINGS. 89 

eggs, beaten to a stifE froth with a tiny pinch of salt 
and 4oz. of sugar, and bake at once in a moderate 
oven for half an hour. Watch it, for if overcooked 
or left to stand, the meringue will toughen. 

QueerCa Pudding, — Grate down enough stale 
brown bread to produce half a pint of crumbs and 
pour on to these a pint of boiling single cream, add 
the grated rind of a lemon, three tablespooiifuls of 
caster sugar, loz. of fresh butter, and the beateu 
jolks of two eggs. Pour this into a buttered and 
pastry edged dish and bake till the paste is nicelv 
browned. When cool, cover rockily with the whites 
whisked to a sti^ froth with a spoonful of sugar, 
and finish as in the preceding recipe, only flavouring 
it with powdered cinnamon. 

Tansy Pudding. — Grate four stale sponge finger 
biscuits, and pour on them enough boiling cream to 
wet them, then beat them up with the yolks of four 
eggs. Add a few tansy leaves (be careful, as too 
many would make it bitter) and enough spinach to 
make it a pretty green. These should be mixed in 
when the cream is cool, and sweetened to taste. Now 
stir it over a slow fire till it thickens, and again leave 
it till cold, when you turn it into a well-buttered and 
floured cloth, tie it up closely and boil three- 
quarters of an hour; then let it stand for ton or 
fifteen minutes before turning it out, and serve with 
sweet white sauce. Another version advises 4oz. 
blanched and pounded almonds with a little rose- 
water and a thinly sliced French roll, all soaked in a 
pint of boiling cream, then sweetened to taste, 
se&son with grated n\itmeg ai^\ m\^ ^;>^ \ss^ss. 



90 SWEETS. 

well-beaten eggs, a glass of brandy, a little tansy 
juice, and enougb spinach to colour it. It is then 
put into a pan with 4oz. of fresh butter, allowed to 
boil up gently, and finished o£E as in the preceding 
recipe, or baked in a piedish. (These are my grand- 
mother's recipes.) 

Cocoa Pudding, — Mix well 4oz. grated bread- 
crumbs and 2oz. each of sugar and cocoa (or 
chocolate powder) with a well-beaten egg, pour a 
pint of boiling milk (or, if chocolate is used, single 
cream) over it all, and bake. A layer of apricot jam 
at the bottom of the piedish is an immense improve- 
ment. 

Cherry Pudding, — Line a buttered mould with 
cherries (either fresh or dried), and fill it with the 
following : Beat ^Ib. of butter to a cream, work into 
it ^Ib. each of sugar and flour with the well-beaten 
yolks of five eggs, half a grated lemon rind, and 
lastly the whites of the eggs whipped till quite stiff. 
Steam for two hours and serve with cream sauce 
flavoured with cherry juice, or sweetened whipped 
cream flavoured with kirsch. 

The Staffs : Yeomanry Pudding, — Six ounces 
creamed butter, 6oz. caster sugar, the well-beaten 
yolks of four and the whites of two eggs, loz. sweet 
and ^01, bitter almonds blanched and pounded with 
a spoonful of milk. Line a piedish pretty thickly 
with apricot jam, pour the above mixture, well 
beaten, on to it, and bake three-quarters of an hour. 
Let it cool, and then cover rockily with the egg 
whites whipped to a stiff froth with caster sugar, 
and bake in a moderate oven till lightly coloured. 



PUDDINGS. 91 

(This is the original recipe, but for average tastes 
half the siigar will be found ample.) 

Qeorge Fuddhig, — Simmer a handful of rice till 
tender in as little milk as possible, then drain o£E 
any rice that may be left, and mix the rice with 
twelve apples previously peeled, cored, sliced, and 
cooked to a very dry marmalade, a glass of white wine 
(brandy or liqueur), the yolks of five eggs, 2oz. finely 
shred candied citron, and sugar to taste. (It should 
be fairly sweet.) Line a mould with very thin paste, 
stir the stifi^y whipped whites of the eggs into the 
pudding mixture, pour the latter into the mould and 
bake till nicely browned, then turn out and serve 
wijli this sauce : Melt together two glasses of wine 
(or liqueur), a spoonful of sugar, the yolks of two 
eggs, about ^oz. of butter, and stir over the fire till 
smooth. 

Povding 8axon. — ^Moisten 4oz. of fine flour very 
gradually with a small wineglassful of boiling milk 
stirring it till smooth ; add to this 2oz. fresh butter 
and a pinch of salt, keep it stirred over the fire till it 
thickens, when you lift it off but continue to stir it. 
When perfectly smooth return it to the fire and stir 
in gradually the yolks of five eggs, 2oz. vanilla sugar, 
2oz. butter, and another pinch of salt. When the 
mixture begins to cream, stir in the stiffly whipped 
whites of four eggs, butter a mould, dust it with 
equal parts of fine flour and sugar, and pour in the 
mixture. Stand this in a pan with boiling water 
three parts the height of the mould, and bake 
twenty-five minutes in a slow oven, serve with a 
saibayou. For this whip together over boiling water 



»2 SWEETS. 

3oz. caster sugar, the raw yolks of six and the whiti^s 
of two eggs, a wineglassful of brandy or liqueur, 
ind half a wineglassful of strained lemcJn juice. Use 
directly it is light and spongy. Or an ordinary 
German whip sauce may be used. For this put half i 
gill of brandy, wine, or liqueur, or liqueur syrup, into 
a pan with the yolks of two eggs, and loz. or 2oz. of 
loaf sugar rubbed on the yellow part of a lemon rind 
and then crushed. Stand this pan in another three 
parts full of boiling water, and whip the mixture 
over the fire till it is all a light frothy mass. The 
great secret is to whip this sauce just enough but 
not too much, or it curdles and looks untidy. Fi'uit 
or liqueur syrups may be used instead of the spirit 
if liked. 

Wiesbaden Pudding. — Make a thick sauce with 
loz. flour, 2oz. butter, half a pint of new milk, and 2oz. 
of sugar. "When quite smooth add the lightly beaten 
yolks of throe eggs, and lastly the whites beaten tiU 
stiff ; add a little flavouring to taste, mix well, and 
stoaui for an hour iu a well-buttered mould. Turn 
out aud serve with the German sauce given above. 

Viennese Pudding. — Put loz. of sugar into an iron 
saucepan with a teaspoonfiil of lemon juice or water, 
aud heat it over the fire till the sugar becomes a 
dark golden brown (mind it does not burn 1) Then 
pour ou to it half a pint of milk, and when this has 
well coloured mix into it two well-beaten eggs ; put 
into a mould or basiu about 4oz. of stale bread cut 
into dice, pour the milk, &c., on it, aud leave it to 
steep for half an hour. (Some cooks pour the milk 
boiling on the bread, and leave it till cold beifore 



PUDDINGS. 93 

adding the ^gs.) Now beat it all well together, 
lYiiTiTig in as yon beat 3oz. sultana raisins, 2oz. finely 
shred peel, and 3oz. caster sugar ; steam till firm 
(about one and a half hours), and serve with jam 
sauce made by dissolving two tablespoonfuls of jam 
in one of water, sweetening it if necessary, and 
adding a few drops of lemon juice and a little 
flavouring to taste. 

If you add half a wineglassful of sherry or liqueur 
to the mixture and about ^oz. more bread, reserving 
the whites of the eggs and stirring them in, beaten 
to a stiff froth, at the last, and cook the pudding in 
small timbale moulds for t went v -five to thirtv 
minutes, serving with Hqueur sauce, it makes a 
particularly dainty entremets. Stale gingerbread 
used thus, flavoured with cinnamon, and served 
with a brown sauce is excellent. For the brown 
sauce make some melted butter with brown roux, 
moistening it with caramelled milk, flavouring 
it with powdered cinnamon, and adding a well- 
beaten egg and a spoonful or two of brandy at the 
last. 

Conservative Pudding. — Well butter a mould and 
put in a layer of crumbled sponge fingers, then a 
thin layer of apricot jam, then a layer of crumbled 
ratafies, then more jam ; repeat these layers till the 
mould is about three parts full, then pour over it 
all about half a gill of brandy, or any liqueur (or 
liqueur syrup) to taste, and let it soak well. Now 
pour on to it about a pint of milk mixed witli the 
yolks of four eggs and one whole e^g, cover the 
mould with a buttered paper, and steam an hour. 



94 SWEETS. 

A full tablespoonful of jam and 2oz. to 3oz. each of 
sponge fingers and ratafies will be found ample for 
an average mould. 

MoTiaseline Pudding, — Oream together 2oz. of 
fresh butter with the finely minced or grated peel of 
two lemons, then work in 2oz. of caster sugar, and 
beat it all well for five minutes longer. Now add in 
gradually 2oz. fine sifted flour, the raw yolks of five 
eggs, the strained juice of a lemon, and a few drops 
of essence of vanilla ; beat these altogether for ten 
minutes or so, then mix in lightly and quickly the 
whites of the eggs previously beaten to a stiff froth 
with a pinch of salt. (Remember in this, as in every 
case where whipped white of eggs is used, this must 
not be beaten in, but, so to say, folded into the 
mixture, raising the latter with a knife and gently 
slipping the egg froth under it.) Have ready a well- 
buttered Charlotte mould lined with a buttered paper, 
dust it with caster sugar and very finely shred 
candied lemon peel, turn in the mixture, and steam 
for eighty minutes. Then turn out on to a hot dish, 
remove the paper carefully, and serve with mousae- 
line sauce ; send to table at once. It must not be 
turned out till wanted, as it grows heavy as it cools. 
For the sauce : Boil a gill of water with 6oz. loaf 
sugar to the pearl (or until on dipping your finger and 
thumb into cold water, and then into the sugar, the 
latter will form a tliread as you draw the former 
apart ; but be sure and do not forget the cold 
water, or you will get a nasty burn), then lift it off 
the fire and whisk into it the raw yolks of six eggs, 
over ice, till it becomes oi t\ie conaV^V^iic^ ^i «^^\ii\ 



PUDDINGS. 95 

iiow mix in a gill of brandy, maraschino, or any 
liqueur to taste, the whipped whites of two eggs, 
and a gill of stifOiy whipped cream, and leave on ice 
till wanted. If prefeiTed a gill of any nice fruit 
pur^e to taste, and half a wineglassfuJ of liqueur, 
may be used instead of the brandy. 



CHAPTER Vri. 

PUDDINGS, NURSERY. 

It is a curious, but none the less an attested fact, 
that in many households where the dining-room 
cookery is of the most perfect kind, and the servants' 
hall and housekeeper's room leave little if anything 
to be desired in culinary ways, the nursery and 
schoolroom often suffer from cooking that . needs 
personal evidence to be credited. Many a person 
now a victim to dyspepsia might trace their troublt* 
to those nursery meals, and of all the horrors of 
nursery fare, few can equal the disgust inspired by 
"milky *' and other so-called "wholesome" puddings 
of a cereal kind in many a child's life. In 
fact, the very words rice, tapioca, sago, &c., 
to use an old phrase, fairly stink in the nostrils 
of many denizens of the nursery, and the distaste 
thus acquired hardly yields in after life even 
to the daintiest version of riz a VImpi'ratrice, or 
of creme des iles, most delicate of all tapioca 
preparations. 

Yet it is quite as easy to make an appetising 
cereal entremets as an ordinary (and usually most 



PUDDINGS, NURSERI. 97 

teti-appetising) rice, tapioca, or sago pudding. The 
secret lies in the prefatory cooking of the material, 
thus: Never use more than 2oz. for each pint of 
milk, and if you like a softer or more mill^ dish, 
use ^oz. less. Put the rice, <fec., into a piedish, then 
pour the milk used for cooking it over it (being 
careful that the dish is not more than half to three 
parts full to allow room for the swelling of the 
grain), and bake in a very slow oven for about two 
and a half hours, being very careful it at no time 
cooks fast. This allows the grain to become creamy 
and digestible, and to swell to its utmost capacity. 
Then lift the pudding out and let it cool, stirring 
into it about 2oz. or 3oz. of sugar (this is a matter 
of taste) to the pint of milk, a spoonful or two of 
cream if at hand (or mix in loz. of butter as you 
lift the hot pudding from the oven), with any 
flavouring to taste, and let it cook thirty to thirty- 
five minutes, when it will be ready. If a richer 
pudding is desired add a whole egg, or two 
yolks to each pint of milk, or about half a gill 
of cream, when sweetening and flavouring the 
whole mixture. A pudding cooked thus will be a 
revelation to many who connect rice and tapioca 
pudding with the detestable odour of burnt milk 
and the horrible taste of the gluey mass which only 
the schoolboy word" stickjaw" adequately describes. 
Unless you allow plenty of milk the grain can 
neither swell nor burst properly (on which the 
excellence of the dish depends) ; if you do not allow 
room for the swelling, and place the pudding in an 
over hot oven, the inevitable result is that the 



d8 SWEETS. 

milk boils up, and over, and the grain, having 
no more pailk to absorb, cannot swell properly, 
and so hardens and stiffens more and more, whilst a 
black, burnt skin forms all over the surface, and 
the whole presents the well-known features of rice 
pudding as known to the nursery and the average 
landlady. 

It is well to remember that different cereals require 
different times of cooking, so attention must be paid 
to this point, as not only the variety, but even the 
quality of the same variety will often affect the time 
required for the due preparation of the cereal in 
question. It may also be mentioned that many of 
the patent cereal foods (of which there are nowa- 
days such a number) are the better for somewhat 
longer cooking thaa is indicated in the recipes sent 
out with them, i.e., they, like all other cereals, 
improve by beiag cooked as slowly as possible, 
though, of course, the patented preparations com- 
pare favourably with the whole grain in the matter 
of time. 

The next bugbear of children is the suet pudding ; 
and this is the more to be regretted as few things, 
if properly niade, are more nourishing and whole- 
some. This dislike is due in great measure to 
careless preparation of the suet and insufficient and 
hurried cooking. As regards the suet, carefully 
remove all skin and fibre, and then slice it down as 
finely as possible, dust these shces generously with 
sifted flour, collect them into a ridge on the chopping 
board, and then, holding the point of the knife with 
one hand, work the handle with the other, chopping 



PUDDINGS, NURSERY. 99 

steadily across tlie ridge. If treated thus, suet, if 
in proper condition, t.e., hard and diy, will very soon 
become almost a powder. Any suet if good can be 
used, though beef suet is mostly preferred ; mutton 
suet, however, makes the lightest pudding, and veal 
suet, particularly the kidney suet, is far and away 
the most delicate. Indeed, veal kidney suet is 
frequently used in preference to butter by foreign 
chefs in fine pastry-making. Next as to the time of 
boiling. As a matter of fact it is very difficult to 
overcook a suet pudding. Suet is very heavy, and 
size makes comparatively little difference ; of course 
a large pudding needs extra time, but even the 
smallest suet dumpling requires a period of cooking 
which, having regard to its actual weight, can only 
be called considerable. For instance, a dumpling 
cooked in a teacup and about the size of a duck's 
egg will take fully an hour to cook, and would be 
none the worse for double that time. It is on this 
long and steady cooking that its digestibility 
entirely depends. For good- sized puddings for a 
large family two and a half hours is the lead that 
should be allowed for their cooking, and four hours 
is not out of the way. There is a third point that 
deserves consideration, and this is the improvement 
effected by replacing some part of the flour usually 
given in recipes by finely grated breadcrumbs, the 
proportions varying from one part crumbs to seven 
of flour to one part crumbs to two parts flour; in 
fact, this mixture of breadcrumbs and flour can be 
used with advantage even for suet oruBt for rolling 
as well as for suet puddings. 



100 SWEETS. 

Perhaps the following may help some mothers in 
search of variety for the nursery : — 

Sultana or Cherry Roll. — Sift a short half tea- 
spoonful of baking powder into 6oz. of flour, and 
add to this 2oz. of finely grated breadcinimbs ; 
shred 60 z. of suet as described above, and mix it in 
with the flour, &c., and about 2oz. of sugar and 4oz. 
of sultanas or dried cherries. Work it aU to a nice 
paste with a little milk, make it into a roll, tie it 
into a floured and buttered cloth, and boil it for two 
full hours, then turn out, and serve either whole or 
sliced, with brown sugar or jam sauce to taste. 

Ginger Sponge Pudding, — Sift together lib. of 
flour, a teaspoonful of ground ginger^ rather more of 
tartaric acid, half a teaspoonful of groimd cloves and 
nutmeg mixed, 4oz. of well-clarified beef dripping, 
one egg, one and a half gills of milk, and 2oz. brown 
sugar. Beat the materials all well together ; dissolve 
a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda in a tablespoonful 
of water, and add at the last minute. Half to two- 
thirds fill a buttered mould or basin with the mixture, 
and steam from two and a half to three hours. If 
preferred the sugar may be left out, in which case 
it will be much lighter, but then either golden syrup 
or ginger sauce (made by adding about half a small 
teaspoonful of essence of ginger to half a pint of 
melted butter flavoured to taste with sugar and 
lemon juice) should be served with it. If a less rich 
pudding be desired, use water instead of milk ; 
baking powder may also be used instead of the soda, 
&c., or Combe's Eureka Flour can be used. 

Fruit Cheesecakes, — Grate down some bread- 



PUDDINGS, NURSERY. 101 

crumbs pretty fine, and soak these in fruit syrup of 
any kind till all the liquid is absorbed and the bread 
is thoroughly soaked ; then beat to this some well- 
beaten eggs (in the proportion of two to each half 
pint of crumbs), line some patty pans with any 
scraps of pastry at hand, fill these with the mixture, 
and bake. Serve hot or cold, dredged with caster 
sugar. The same tartlets may be made with any 
fruit when plentiful by crushing, say, a pint of rasp- 
berries or strawberries with one or two tablespoon- 
fuls of caster sugar, and then beating in two or 
three eggs, finishing as before. 

Strawberry Pudding. — Butter a piedish, and put 
a layer of strawberry jam at the bottom (the whole- 
fruit jam is nicest), then cover this with a good layer 
of fine breadcrumbs; well beat two eggs, and stir 
to them loz. of caster sugar and a few drops of 
essence of vanilla. Now add a pint of milk, and stir 
it over the fire till it thickens, when you pour it very 
gently over the crumbs, &c., and bake in a very 
moderate oven for half an hour. 

Eggless Puddings. — ^Peel, core, and slice some 
apples, and stew them till tender in just enough 
water to keep them from burning, with a good 
squeeze of lemon juice, the finely pared rind of the 
lemon, and sugar (brown is best) to taste. Now 
place this marmalade in a piedish. Rub down l|oz. 
of cornflour to a smooth paste with a very little cold 
milk and 2oz. of sugar ; put a pint of TnilTr on in a 
pan with the thinly pared rind of half a lemon, 
bring it just up to, but not over, the boil ; then pour 
it over the apples and bake till the surface browns. 



102 SWEETS. 

This of course can be made witli various fruit. 
Stoned cherries and kirsch syrup are particularly 
good. Tapioca boiled till liquid may be used 
instead of the cornflour. Or, peel and core some nice 
even-sized apples, and fill their centres with quince 
jam, damson cheese, or any nice preserve to taste, 
place them in a piedish, strew round them a cupful 
of raw tapioca, with caster sugar and grated lemon 
peel; All the dish up with milk, and bake in a very 
slow oven. 

Imitation Burnt Orea/m, — Beat up the yolks of 
four eggs with a tablespoonful of flour, the grated 
rind of a small lemon, and sugar to taste ; pour to it 
a pint of milk in which you have dissolved ^z. of 
leaf gelatine, and stir it all over the Are till it is a 
thick custard, then pour it into the dish in which it 
is to be served; boil some sugar in a little lemon 
juice (loz. liquid for 2oz. sugar) till of a rich dark 
brown, but do not stir it till you lift it from the fire, 
then pour this caramel on to the cream when cool, 
and let it set. When quite cold, whip the whites of 
two of the eggs to a stiff froth, with sugar and a 
little grated lemon rind to taste, and dispose this 
froth in spoonfuls, rockily, over the brown surface. 

Sponge Puddings. — Take the weight of two eggs 
(in their shells) of butter, flour, and sugar, beat the 
eggs to a froth, and the butter to a cream, then 
beat both together, adding in gradually and alter- 
nately the flour and sugar, beating it well all the 
time. Half to three parts fill small cups with the 
mixture and bake. Serve hot or cold with jam 
sauce. 



PUDDINGS, NURSERY. 103 

Bice Croquettes, — Put two tablespoonf uls of rice in 
a pan, or a piedish, with a little grated lemon rind 
and three tablespoonfuls of sugar, together with a 
little cold milk, and let it cook either over the fire, 
or in the oven, adding more milk (but without 
stirring it, or it would bum) until the rice has 
absorbed all it can. It will take up from three- 
quarters to a full pint. Now leave it till next day, 
or till quite cold, then work into it two whole and 
well-beaten eggs. Dust the pastrj board with 
flour, shape the rice into balls or olive shapes, 
dip them in egg beaten up with caster sugar and 
a few drops of vaniUa, and roll them in very fine 
bread raspings ; then fry like fritters. Strew caster 
sugar over them as you dish them, and serve very 
hot. 

Brown Betty. — Peel, core, and slice six or seven 
good cooking apples; put a layer of stale sifted 
breadcrumbs at the bottom of a piedish, then a 
layer of sliced apple, repeating these two layers till 
the dish is full. Now add a gill of water to a gill 
of golden syrup, with two tablespoonfuls of brown 
sugar, and a squeeze of lemon juice, and pour it all 
over the crumbs (which must form the last layer 
of the sweet), bake in a moderate oven for half 
an hour, and serve with the following sauce : Beat 
2oz. or 8oz. of fresh butter to a cream, adding in 
gradually about 6oz. of caster sugar, and beat till 
very light, when you add the whites of two eggs, 
and beat it all again till hght and frothy ; then beat 
in a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, or a few drops 
of essence of lemon, and set it away on ice or in a 



104 SWEETS. 

cool place till wanted; then strew lightly with grated 
nutmeg and ser^e. (This is one version of the well- 
known American hard sauce, only, for grown-up use, 
the cream when beaten should be flavoured with a 
teaspoonful of brandy, sherry, or liqueur.) 

Fruit Batter Pudding. — ^Beat three whole eggs till 
light, then add to them a pint of milk, and then about 
14oz. of fine sifted flour, and beat till smooth ; now 
stir in about loz. of dissolved butter, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, stir in quickly one pint of stoned cherries, 
well dredged with flour (this prevents their sinking), 
turn it all into a generously buttered mould, cover 
down with a buttered paper, and steam steadily for 
three hours. If the water in the steamer evaporates, 
add more. This is served with hard sauce, or fairy 
butter, as the former is sometimes called when no 
spirit is used with it. Strawberries, raspberries, 
blackberries, or indeed any fruit berries can be 
used for this pudding. 

Fruit Tapioca. — Pick over and well wash a cupful 
of tapioca, and soak it in cold water overnight ; 
then put it into a pan with a pint of boiling water 
and cook till transparent, simmering it very slowly. 
Have ready stoned l^lb. of cooking cherries, and 
stir them quickly into the boiling tapioca, sweetening 
it to taste and adding a squeeze of lemon juice. 
Turn out at once into the dish it is to be served in, 
and leave it till cool. Serve when quite cold, with 
sugar and clotted or thick cream. (K iced it is 
nicest.) Any fruit, fresh or canned, can be used 
thus, only for soft fruit lijie strawberries, &c., allow 



PUDDINGS, NURSERY. 106 

a full 21b. of fru\^. Blackberries and apple (peeled, 
cored, and sliced) are delicious thus. 

The Children' B Pudding, — Split some penny sponge- 
cakes, and line a well-buttered mould with the under 
sides of the cakes, then pack in any fresh fruit to 
taste, strewing each layer with plenty of brown 
sugar, and lastly pour over all a cupful of milk 
(according to the size of the dish ; six sponge cakes 
would take about a gill) ; dip the top halves of the 
cakes into milk, or water, for just a minute, lay 
them over the top, and bake half an hour. 

Apple Charlotte. — ^Peel, core, and slice about 
twenty-four nice apples and stew them till tender, 
with just enough water to prevent their burning; 
then add 6oz. of sugar for each ^Ib. of pulp and a 
tiny grate of lemon peel, and let it cook a little 
longer till fairly dry. Cut a slice of stale bread, and 
cut from it a roimd the size of the bottom of a plain 
well-buttered Charlotte mould; prepare also some 
fingers of the same bread, the height of the mould 
and l|in. wide, and either spread each with butter, 
or dip each in hot dissolved butter (this is often 
thought too rich for nursery use), then fit the round 
at the bottom of the mould and arrange the strips 
roimd the sides, letting each overlap a little to keep 
in the juice ; brush the inside over well with white 
of Qg^t then fill up with the apple, adding half a 
glass of sherry, and cover with another round of 
bread, pressing this down a little, put a plate on top, 
and bake from forty to fifty minutes in a sharp oven 
till of a pretty golden brown. Turn it out, and serve 
dusted with caster sugar. For a birthday sweet a 



106 SWEETS. 

spoonful or two of apricot jam maj be added to the 
apple, and the whole covered, when turned out, with 
apricot jam sauce, made by boiling together half a 
pint of water with 2oz. of sugar, till reduced to one- 
half, then stir in two tablespoonfuls of jam and a 
squeeze of lemon juice, and stir it over the fire till 
hot. 

Golden Pudding, — Shred finely 4oz. of suet, and 
mix it well with 4oz. flour, 4oz. of sifted bread- 
crumbs, 4oz. of sugar, 4oz. of marmalade, and one 
e^Q, Turn these all when well mixed into a buttered 
basin and boil for two and a half hours. 

Oingerhread Pudding. — Q-rate finely 6oz. stale 
bread, and mix it with 6oz. finely shred suet, a 
teaspoonful of ground ginger, and 2oz. flour; now 
mix it well with |lb. of golden syrup, put it into a 
buttered mould, and boil for at least two hours. 

Spongecake Pudding. — Soak six penny spongecakes 
in a little milk, and when soft beat them up well 
with the juice and grated rind of a lemon, a little 
butter, one or two eggs, and caster sugar to taste ; 
bake half an hour in a sharp oven. A couple of 
spoonfuls of any jam can be used instead of the 
lemon if preferred. 

Summer Piidding. — Line a well - buttered plain 
china mould, or basin, with bread as for Apple 
Charlotte, pressing it well into the mould, then 
pour in sufficient hot stewed fruit of any kind to 
fill the basin, fit a round of bread on top, turn a 
plate over it, and let it stand till next day, when 
it can be turned out and served with cream, or a 
thin custard. Any rich-coloured fruit does for this. 



PUDDINGS, N[JRSERT. 107 

whether of one or many kinds. A variation of this, 
known as " Dr. Johnson's pudding," may be recom- 
mended: Slice thinly about lOoz. of bread, and 
have about a pound of hot stewed rhubarb, then put 
these in alternate layers into a rather deep dish, 
finishing with the fruit (mind the dish is only three- 
quarters full), and put it aside till cold. When 
served pour on to it from half to three-quarters of a 
pint of more or less rich custard. These puddings 
go by many names, such as Hydropathic, Ehode 
Island, Wakefield, &c. 

Macaroni Pvdding. — ^Boil 4oz. of macaroni in a 
fuU quart of water for fifteen minutes, sharply ; then 
drain it, cut it into inch lengths, and boil it again 
with 2oz. of sugar in a pint of milk till tender, but 
unbroken. Let it cool, then add two or three beaten 
eggs, and flavour to taste with vanilla, lemon, or 
any liqueur syrup you please ; line a buttered pie- 
dish with any nice jam, lay in the macaroni, &c., and 
bake till brown. 

Boston Pudding, — Eub 6oz. of butter or well- 
clarified dripping into a pound of flour, then add 
6oz. each of moist sugar and sultanas (or currants, 
but these are often not liked for nursery use), half a 
teaspoonf ul of powdered cinnamon, and a quarter of 
a nutmeg grated. Now mix very smoothly a dessert- 
spoonful of carbonate of soda in a tablespoonful of 
milk, and stir this into half a pint of milk, then 
add the rest of the ingredients, stirring it care- 
•" fully all the time, lest the soda should sink to the 
bottom; beat all well together for just a minute, 
then pour it into a weU-buttered mould, which must 



108 SWEETS. 

be only three parts full. Tie tlie pudding cloth oyer 
so as to allow for swelling, which it do^s consider- 
ably, plunge it into fast boiling water, and keep 
this boiling fast for three and half hours. If properly 
made this is a very light pudding, without any trace 
of soda. 

Bun or Teacahe Pudding. — Split open an aerated 
bun (or slice down a teacake, not too thinly), spread 
both sides with jam, replace it into shape, put it 
into a basin, and pour on to it a pint of milk pre- 
viously mixed while hot with a well-beaten egg, cover 
it down closely, and let it stand for an hour, then 
bake for half an hour. If necessary add a little more 
tnilk when about to bake it. 

8aucer Puddings, — Beat to a cream 2oz. of fresh 
butter with 3oz. of sugar, then work the yolks of two 
well-beaten eggs and their whites, whipped to a stiff 
froth, in alternate spoonfuls with 2oz. of flour, moisten 
with half pint of milk, and divide into four saucers, 
baking these for fifteen or twenty minutes. Have 
ready some nice jam heated till nearly liquid, cover 
one cake with this, then lay the other over it, then 
more jam, and so on till the cakes are all used ; sift 
sugar over the top and use. A simpler plan is to 
work the butter and flour together, then add the eggs 
well beaten and whole, the sugar, and lastly the milk ; 
but these cakes are naturally not so light, as by the 
first method. 

Radical Pudding, — Take the weight of four un- 
shelled eggs in butter and beat this to a cream, add 
to this the well-beaten (whole) eggs, two tablespoon- 
f uls of sugar, two-thirds the weight of the eggs in 



PUDDINGS, NURSERY. 109 

dried, sifted breadcrumbs, or cake, or stale sponge- 
cake crumbs ; mix all these ingredients well, flaTour- 
ing to taste with lemon, vanilla, or almoud essence, 
and pour them iuto a well-buttered mould. CoTer 
with a buttered paper, tie up in a cloth, and either 
steam it for about one and a half hours, or plunge 
in hard-boiling water, and boil a little over an hour. 
Turn out carefully, and serve with sweetened white 
sauce flavoured with lemon. 

" Dainty " Pudding. — Put into a saucepan a pint 
of milk, with an inch or two of stick cinnamon or 
vanilla pod, six or seven blanched and shred almonds, 
and the very thinly pared rind of half a lemon, 
bring it all slowly to the boil, then strain, adding a 
pinch of salt, and sugar to taste. When this is all 
quite cool, add to it one large or two small eggs well 
beateu, and pour this all into a buttered piedish; 
cover the top over with thinly sliced breadcrumb, 
buttered on both sides, and cut to fit the dish. Bake 
about twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 

Baked Pears, — Choose ripe, but not too soft, 
eating pears, and peel them thinly, leaving on the 
stalks. Gkither any trimmings of short or puff 
paste, roll it out thin, cut it into pieces, and wrap 
each pear iii one of these, pressing the paste with 
your hand well into the shape of the fruit, which 
should have been previously well coated with raw 
cane sugar. Bake carefully. If the pears are of 
the hard cooking variety, they will take so long to 
cook that they will spoil the paste. The cased pears 
should be iced with No. HE. icing (given on p. 15) 
when about three-parts cooked. Apples may be 



110 SWEETS. 

cooked in this way, but should be cored, and the 
cavity filled with raw sugar, with a clove to flavour 
it. 

Baked Apples, — Core, but do not peel, some good 
apples, wipe them, and set them in a fireproof dish 
half an inch apart, and fill the holes with any 
nice jam to taste ; dust them with caster sugar, pour 
any sweet home-made wine (such as ginger, raisin, 
&c.) roimd them ; lay strips of lemon peel about the 
dish, cover it with a reversed dish, and bake for 
three-quarters of an hour in a very slow oven. If 
preferred, the cavity can be filled with brown sugar 
and a clove or two, the wine being omitted, and the 
dish well buttered. 

Arme Bitter. — This sweet, which goes by many 
names, such as pain perdu, bread fritters, &c., is very 
easily prepared, thus : Boil half a pint of new milk 
with a little sugar, a tiny dust of salt, a good pinch 
of grated lemon peel, and at the last add, o£E the fire, 
a good teaspoonful of orange flower water or any 
liqueur syrup to taste. Slice down a French roll, 
leaving on the crust, soak them in the milk till soft, 
but not too pappy, then in beaten egg, and fry a 
golden brown in hot butter, and serve very hot* 
dusted with grated nutmeg, Ac, to taste. In Spain, 
where this is very popular, clear-run honey is heated 
and poured over at the last. 

Prune Shape, sometimes called Stockholm Pud- 
ding. — Cook ^Ib. of French plums in equal parts 
of claret or port wine and water (for nursery 
use ginger wine is often used, similarly diluted), and 
when quite tender stone them carefully. Have 



PUDDINGS, NURSERY. Ill 

ready blanclied and chopped l|oz. sweet and |oz. 
bitter almonds, and 4oz. or 6oz. of ratafies, or small 
macaroons. Arrange a layer of the cooked plums 
in a square or round plain mould, and sprinkle the 
fruit with the chopped almonds, covering these again 
with the ratafies. Repeat this till all the plums are 
used, then press it all well down, and pour on to it 
three whole eggs beaten up with half pint of new 
milk, and sweetened to taste. (Mind the mould is 
very little more than three-quarters full.) Cover 
with a buttered paper, or steam for three-quarters of 
an hour. Turn out carefully, and serve, hot or cold, 
with a thin custard poured over and round it. 

A Children's Bavarois. — Crush sufficient ripe fruit 
of any kind through a sieve or masher, and for each 
ilb. of pulp add from 2oz. to 3oz. of caster sugar, 
according to the sweetness of the fruit, and ^oz. of 
leaf gelatine previously dissolved in half a gill of 
boihug milk (add this when cool) and the juice of 
half a lemon. Now stir to this half a pint of more or 
less rich custard, and mould either in an earthenware 
basin, or line a mould pretty thickly with one of the 
packets of lemon or other fruit jelly to taste, and 
when this is nearly set pour in the bavarois, let it 
set, then turn out and serve. A richer dish may be 
made by using stiffly whipped cream instead of the 
custard, and whisking the fruit pur^ before mixing 
in the cream. 

Marrons a la Chantilly, — Prick lib. of good chest- 
nuts, and boil them for forty -five to sixty minutes, 
according to size, in boiling water; then remove both 
skins, and pulp them through a colander, sprinkle 



112 SWEETS. 

them lightly with yanilla or lemon sugar, haye 
ready a 9d. pot of thick cream, whipped till perfectly 
stiff, and flavoured to taste with vanilla and sugar, 
and pour it all over the chestnuts, which should have 
been piled up high in the dish. Garnish with 
crystallised fruits and soiTe. 



CHAPTEE Ym. 

GATEAUX, &c. 

Strangely enough, though we consider France the 
source and origin of all good bonbons and sweets 
of every kind (in which, however, nowadays America 
runs her hard), it is not a country of puddings and 
sweets of that description. A French lady much 
interested in cidinary matters, and very clever about 
them, once said to me when talking of French 
cookery and its introduction into England : " Well, 
for all your sakes, I wish heartily French cookery 
may obtain a firm footing in England, for I am sure 
it would be as good for you fiuancially as hygienically ; 
but my own personal ambition is to get my fellow- 
countrywomen to appreciate and adopt some at least 
of the many delicious puddings I have tasted since I 
have lived in England." 

At the same time, in their own line French cooks 
are facile princejps, as has been already asserted with 
regard to French tarts and patissei'ie, and no sweets 
are more delicious and dainty than the numerous 
gateaux they serve. A few of these may, therefor^ 
be given as samples. 



114 SWEETS. 

Genoise aux fruits^ a la creme, — Break five whole 
eggs into a delicately clean pan, and stir to them 
^Ib. of caster sugar ; now place this pan in the baiti' 
marie or in another pan three parts full of boiling 
water ; stand this all over the fire, and whisk the 
contents steadily till lukewarm ; then lift the pan off 
the fire, and continue whisking it till the eggs, Ac., 
are quite light and perfectly cold. Now stir to it 
6oz. freshly ground almonds, 4oz. dried and sifted 
flour (or creme de riz), and 4oz. creamed butter; 
flavour to taste with orange-flower water, and mix it 
all gently but thoroughly together. Pour it into a 
plain mould, and bake in a moderate oven. When 
perfectly cold and set, remove the centre of the 
cake, leaving a base and an outer wall about If in. 
thick all round ; the part thus removed makes 
delicious crumbs for puddings or trifles. Now cover 
the cake all over with orange glace (fib. cane icing 
sugar, three tablespoonfuls of orange juice, stirred 
over the fire till smooth and warm) as evenly aa 
possible, and when this is set proceed to decorate it 
with a wreath of orange-quarters (Tangerine for 
choice), freed from pith and pips, and angelica cut 
into leaves, dipping each of these in sugar boiled to 
the crack, and leaving them till candied on a slab or 
dish brushed over with sweet oil. These are then 
stuck in place with a little of the boiled sugar. Let 
this stand till perfectly set, then fill it up, piling it 
up rather highly, with fruit salad, and serve. For 
the salad, peel and slice three or four bananas, cut 
up some slices of preserved pineapple into nice cubes, 
two or three oranges broken up into "quarters/* 



GATEAUX, &c. 115 

somo dried cherries, &c., to taste, and let these 
marinade in half a pint or so of liqueur-flavoured 
syrup for an hour or two, dust them with a little 
fresh sugar, then drain off the liquid, pile up the 
fruit, and pile over it a gill or so of stiffly-whipped 
cream mixed with the liquid from the fruit. A 
squeeze of lemon juice is an improvement to this 
dish. Needless to say, this can be varied indefinitely 
by varying the fillings, which may be anything from 
a fruit sponge up to iced sorbet or a cream spongada, 
according to your taste and your cook's capacities. 
For instance, make a cake as above, and let it set ; 
then slice it horizontally, and cover each slice, save 
the top one, with a rich thick syrup made by boiling 
together for fifteen or twenty minutes |lb. of apricot 
jam, 4oz. of sugar, one and a half gills of water, 
and half a gill of rum till quite thick; rebuild 
the cake into shape, and when set cover it all 
with apricot glace, decorating the top with crystal- 
lised apricots and angelica leaves. Now pipe it 
with white Viennese icing, and serve with an iced 
compote of apricots round it, and clotted cream in a 
boat. 

For the apricot glace put into a pan |lb, of cane 
icing sugar, and mix it with three tablespoonfuls of 
abricotine (liqueur) or with noyeau syrup, and a 
drop or two of yellow colouring ; stir it over the fire 
till just warm, then use. All fruit and liqueur glaces 
are made in this way, using fruit juice or syrup 
instead of the liqueur. For the Vien7ie8e icingy work 
5oz. of cane icing sugar and 2oz. of butter (pre- 
viously beaten to a cream) to a smooth paste, 

I 2 



116 SWEETS. 

moistening it with a liqueur -glassful of suitable 
liqueur (or in this case rum), and use ^wrhen like 
cream. This icing can, of course^ be coloured to 
taste. 

Gateau Maltais cb la Ghantilly. — Prepare a cake as 
above, or take a bought sponge or Madeira cake, or, 
better still, an orange cake, and slice it horizontaUy. 
Mix together some thick cream and orange marma- 
lade, and spread all but the top slice with this 
mixture ; then build the cake back into shape, and 
ice it with orange glace (made with orange juice, like 
the apricot glace given above) ; then, when set, pile 
stiffly- whipped cream on and round it, garnish with 
crystallised orange quarters, and serve. The whipped 
cream constitutes its right to a la Chantilly, a name 
bestowed on it in memory of Charlotte de Cond^ 
wife of the famous Henri n.. Prince de Cond^, to 
which lady we are also indebted for the Charlottes, 
of which nowadays there are such a variety, from 
the Charlotte Russe upwards and downwards. Prin- 
cess Charlotte is said to have introduced the fancy 
for filling up first a scooped-out cake, and later on, 
special almond paste baskets and shapes, with her 
favourite whipped cream, and these were called 
Gateaux a la Chantilly, from the name of her 
favourite seat, the Chateau de Chantilly. These 
Cond^s were a gastronomic family, for if the lady 
gave her name to the CJiarlottes and the Gateau d la 
Chantilly (hence by an ellipsis whipped cream minus 
the gdteau), her lord is responsible for the various 
dishes a la Conde introduced by his chef, and dedi- 
cated to him. 



GATEAUX, &o. 117 

Gateau Chocolat a la Chaniilly. — Slice a chocolate 
cake as above and spread it witli cream and 
apricot jam, rebuild it, and ice with rum icing, 
(For this stir together over the fire till warm fib. of 
cane icing sugar, one and a half (full) tablespoonf ols 
of rum, and one and a half tablespoonf uls of water. 
Use when quite smooth and warm.) If preferred, 
this is excellent iced with chocolate glace (cook 
together till smooth 2oz. best vanilla chocolate* 
grated, in a gill of water, then work into it a pound 
of cane icing sugar, and three tablespoonfuls of 
warm water, and use when it is all warm ; be care- 
ful not to overheat it as this spoils it), and served 
with raw fruit compote. It must be remembered 
that this treatment applied to sliced Genoise paste, 
spread sandwich fashion with any compote or jam, 
and then iced and cut into little fancy strips, pro- 
duces extremely pretty petite fours for dessert ; or 
the sliced cake, of different sorts, treated in the same 
way, iced, and then garnished with glace fruit, 
makes very pretty little cakes, either for dessert or 
five o'clock tea, or for Cinderella dances where light 
refreshments are given. 

Gateau ruhis a la Ghantilly. — Bake or buy a 
sponge cake prepared in a border mould; bring to the 
boil together lOoz. of sugar and a gill of water, then 
stir into it lib. of red currants and ^Ib. raspberries 
(or use a proportionate amount of red currant and 
raspberry jam), and let it all boil together for ten 
minutes, then sieve it. Put the cake into the dish in 
which it is to be served, strain off all the juice from 
the cooked fruit, and place the latter^ tci^<$i^«st -^^isia. 



»- V 



118 SWEETS. 

the thick part left on the sieve, in the centre of 
the cake. Boil the strained juice sharply for ten 
minutes, then pour it over the cake (in which you 
have made some holes with a skewer), covering it 
again and again with the juice by means of a s]K)on 
until the cake is thoroughly soaked and covered with 
a rich red jelly. Now put it aside in a cool place tDl 
next day, or at all events for an hour or two, by 
which time the juice should have jellied. Have ready 
some stijBBly whipped cream, sweetened and flavoured 
to taste, and pile in the centre of the cake over the 
cooked fruit, and serve. 

Gateau de Pithiviers. — Pound together till smooth 
4oz. each of sweet and bitter almonds and of caster 
sugar, with half a medium-sized pod of vanilla, 
moistening it as you pound with a little thick cream 
or orange- flower water, as you please ; now work 
into this 3oz. of butter beaten to a cream, a tiny 
pinch of salt, a little grated orange rind, and one 
whole egg and the yolks of two. When this is 
thoroughly mixed, rub it through a sieve into a 
basin, stirring it a little longer. Now roll out some 
puff paste, |:in. thick, and stamp out a round six or 
seven inches in diameter, then roll up the trimmings 
left over, roll out again and stamp out a second 
round as before. Lay this round on a baking sheet 
and pile up the almond mixture in the centre, leaving 
an inch all round uncovered. Moisten this uncovered 
part with a brush dipped in water or milk, place the 
other round carefully on the top of all, pinching the 
edges well and firmly together with your finger and 
thumb, as you would shortbread ; then brush the top 



GATEAUX, &o, 119 

over with white of egg, and garnish it with any 
pattern to taste, marked on it with the blade of a 
well-floured knife. Bake in a moderate oven for three- 
quarters of an hour, then lift it out, sprinkle it well 
with caster sugar, and return it to the oven for five 
or six minutes to glaze. Serve cold. This cake can 
be filled with almost any kind of cream or custard, 
creme pralinee being especially nice. Abroad these 
cakes are prepared thus : Cut out a round as described 
above, and put round it a spoonful or so of whatever 
mixture is to fill it, and cover each of these little 
heaps with a separate round of crust, moistening the 
edge of this well, pressing it firmly on to the under 
round, and also with your thumb making a little 
dent in the top of each mould. Cook as before, 
glazing it the usual way, and serve cold with a pile 
of whipped cream in the centre, and a tiny spoonful 
on each little round, placing a crystallised fruit, nut, 
<&c., to correspond with the filling on each little heap 
of cream. 

Gateau a VAmbrosie, — Prepare a cake as for 
Genoise a la Creme with a hollow, and ice it with 
liqueur syrup, garnishing the top when set with dried 
cherries, leaves cut from green angelica, and little 
heaps of red currant jelly. When this is all firm, 
fill with the following mixture : Peel and remove all 
pith and pips from some sweet oranges and slice 
them thinly, arranging a layer at the bottom of the 
hollow of the cake, dust well with caster sugar, and 
sprinkle generously with equal parts of maraschino 
and best brandy ; now cover with freshly-grated, or 
desiccated, oocoanut^ then put aAsu^^x q>1 \}Kxs^^-^^^iK^ 



120 SWEETS. 

fresh or tinned pineapple, more sugar and more 
cocoanut, and repeat these layers till the cake is 
quite full, bringing the top layers to a conical 
shape, and, lastly, piling over it aU whipped cream, 
sweetened and flavoured with maraschino. This 
filling, served separately in a glass bowl, after 
standing on ice, makes a most delicious sweet, and 
should be served with chocolate or any other delicate 
wafers. 

Gdteau Anacreon. — Blanch and shred finely 4oz. of 
sweet almonds, and mix with these lib. caster sugar, 
the yolks of ten eggs, foTir whole eggs, and a full 
half gill of hirsch wasser. When these ingredients 
are all thoroughly mixed, work in 4oz. of fecula (or 
potato flour), ^Ib. of creamed butter, and 4oz. of 
cherries cut up small ; mix it all well together, and 
add in quickly at the last the stiffly whipped whites 
of the ten eggs. Pour into a Breton mould, bake in a 
moderate oven, and when cold, ice with kirsch icing. 
(A Breton mould consists of a series of border moulds 
decreasing in size, in which the cake is baked, each 
separate cake being turned out and iced, and then 
placed carefully one on top of the other in a pyramid, 
a little icing being used to make the different cakes 
adhere.) 

Gdteau Mille-feuilles, — Take some fine feuilletage 
(or rich puff) paste, and give it twelve " turns " (i.e., 
double the ordinary amount of rolling), roll it up 
pretty thin, then cut it out in equal sized rounds ; 
trim them neatly and bake, then lift them out and 
cover them with a second baking sheet lightly and 
evenly weighted, and leave them tli\iB till <»ld. 



GATEAUX, &o. 121 

Now mask each round with Vienna chocolate icing, 
creme jpdtissiere, creme pralinSe, whipped cream 
flavoured with vanilla, or anything else you choose. 
Place each slice evenly on top of the other, mask them 
smoothly all over with whipped cream flavoured to 
taste, strew blanched and chopped pistachio nuts, 
burnt almonds, or grated chocolate, &c., on the top 
as you please, and stand on ice for haJf-an-hour 
before serving. 

Baba au Bhum. — ^Prepare a leaven with 4oz. of 
flour, and not quite half an ounce of yeast dissolved 
in a little water; this should be worked to a soft 
dough and put aside to rise. Meantime make a bay 
with your knuckles in three-quarters of a pound of 
fine sifted flour, and put into this lOoz. of fresh 
butter, three whole eggs, Joz. caster sugar, and one- 
third of an ounce of fine salt; work it all well 
together, then beat in, one by one, five eggs, working 
each well in. As soon as the dough leaves the board 
clean mix in the leaven, add loz. finely shredded 
candied citron peel, the same of well washed and dried 
currants, and 2oz. of stoned Malaga raisins. Now 
butter a baba mould (any taU, rather large sponge 
cake mould may be used), and half fill it with the 
dough. Let it rise in a warm place till it is double 
its original size and well fills the mould (which may, 
if liked, be lined with buttered paper like a souffle 
dish to avoid the dough rising over), bake carefully 
in a slow oven. It will take about one and half hours. 
Turn it out and serve with a rich sauce made by 
boiling together for a few minutes 2oz. of apricot 
jam, about one gill of dyxvip «A. ^\iowX» "^^ V^a.^h^^*^ 



122 SWEETS. 

parts sugar to one of water, boiled together for 
twenty to twenty-five minutes), and about half a 
gill of rum. Some cooks omit one egg, replacing it 
with a liqueur- glassful of rum and as much saf^n 
as will lie on a threepenny piece dissolved in a little 
warm water. In fact, many people say these two 
additions make the difference between a baba and 
a savarin. The following, however, shows that they 
differ somewhat in detail. 

8ava)in, — Prepare the leaven as in the preYious 
recipe (using three teaspoonfuls of German yeast 
instead of ordinary yeast if more convenient), only 
mixing it with hot milk instead of water. When 
this leaven has risen to twice its original size, add to 
the flour, and work in with a spoon half a gill of hot 
milk and two whole eggs ; then mix in another egg, 
thoroughly, and then a fourth, together with |lb. of 
creamed butter, working it all well with the spoon ; 
next add one-third of an ounce of fine salt, half an 
ounce of sugar, and about a small sherry- glassful of 
hot milk. Lastly, put in a fifth egg, working it well 
in also, and finally mix in 2oz. finely shredded candied 
orange peel. Have ready buttered a savarin mould (a 
rather high border mould always used for this cake), 
sprinkle it well inside with blanched and chopped 
almonds, and half fill with the mixture. When the 
mould is full of the risen dough, set it in a moderately 
sharp oven, covered with a paper, and bake. Test it 
in the usual way (with a very thin, perfectly clean, 
bright skewer) to see if it is baked, and, if ready, 
turn it out and let it stand for a few minutes. Whilst 
it is cooking boil 4oz. of loaf sugar in half a gill of 



GATEAUX, (fee. 123 

water, until, on lifting it with the skimmer or slice, 
the syrnp falls through the holes in long syrupy 
drops, then add a liqueur-glassful of anisette, kirsch, 
or any liqueur to taste, with twenty or thirty 
drops of essence of vanilla, and, if liked, a drop 
or two of essence of almonds; mask the cake 
three or four times with this syrup, and serve hot or 
cold. 

Lastly, there are the croqu^ enbouches. It should 
be observed that unless you possess a chef, or a cordon 
bleu, these sweets are best left alone if you do not 
yourself possess the skill and patience to prepare 
them, but they are so pretty and so good that they 
are well worth the trouble of making. Begin by 
boiling some sugar to the crack, then dip some 
ratafias or small macaroons each singly into the 
sugar (with a clean skewer), and fix them all round 
the inside of a well-oiled plain Chai'lotte mould, 
fixing them with a little more of the boiled sugar. 
Leave them till quite cold and set, then turn out, 
and serve with whipped cream, jelly, or any filling to 
taste. I have given ratafias, as these are the easiest 
to experiment with, but when the process grows easy 
from practice, prepare the croqu* eribouche with 
orange quarters, free from pith and pips, and 
crystallised with the boiled sugar. These when 
crystallised are left till crisp on an oiled slab or dish, 
and then used, just like the ratafias. In France, all 
sorts of glace fruit are used for this, such as tiny 
green oranges (ohinois), glac^ cherries, apricots, &c., 
varying the colours, and sticking them as before with 
the boiled sugar. There is no diflB.cult^ ^V^ws^^Cassfc 



124 SWEETS. 

after a little practice, if you are neat-handed, gii 
with patience, and careful not to let the sugar 
either too hot or too cold. The best way is to sfe 
the pan containing the sugar in another pan thi 
parts full of boiling water. 



IISTDEX. 



A-dvokaat, 55 
Apptes, baked, 110 
Charlotte, 105 
Ajrme ritter, 110 
Baba au rhum, 121 
Bain-marie, 87 
Ballettes en surprise, 55 
Banbury cakes, 21 
Bavarois, 53, 61-64 
children's. 111 

" Bay," 3 

Beigrnets souffles, 42 
Cakes, Banbury, 21 

Eocles, 22 
Caramel, 60 

pudding, 60 
Cheesecakes, 23 
almond, 24 
ohooolate {mirHtona), 24 

fruit, 100 

lemon, 23 

potato, 24 

Richmond maids of honour, 25 

Cream, 53 

bauana, 57 



126 INDEX. 

Cream, coffee, 62 

economical, 57 
Or^es, 53 

k la Czarina, 63 
„ Hollandaise, 56 
a. Kaiser, 63 
„ Beine Marguerite, 63 

an caramel, 61 

an ohocolat, 62 

panach^e, 56 

petites, en burprise, 54 

petits pots k la, 50-51 

pralin^e, 63 

Yacherin, k la, 63 

Valois, 56 
Croqu' enbouches, 123 
Cnstards (and creams), 50-5^ 

pudding, 58 

„ (nursery), 59 
Doughnuts, 43 
Dumplings (suet), 65, 6(i 
Eccles cake, 22 
Flans, 28 

„ d'amandes k la meniig^re, 34 
« Frangipane," 31 
Fritters, 35 

American, 43 

cream, 64 

French, 42 

frilled, 42 

fruit, 41 
Fruit salad, 114 
Gateaux, 113 

g^noise aux fruits, 114 

k Tambrosie, 119 

Anaordon, 120 

Chantilly, 116 



INDEX. 127 



G&teanx (Coniini*«d)— • 

obocolat, 117 

fourr^, 30 

Maltais, 116 

mille-fenilles, 121 

Pithiviers, 118 

rabis, 117 

St. Honor^, 30 

,, aux marroiiB, 32 
Icings for pastry, 15 

apricot, 115 

chocolate, 11? 

orange, 114 
„ rum, 117 

Viennese, 115 
Marrons & la Chantilly, 111 
Mousses, 49 
Omelettes, 44.45 

anx confitures, 46 

au rhum, 46 

souffles, 46 
Oven, to test, 14 

Pan (frying), to clean and season, 38 
Fancalces, 35 

batter for, 35-37 

Adirondack, 41 

k la C^lestine, 38 

k la Boyale, 39 

ale, 40 

American, or flannel cakes, 41 

German, or Strvdeln, 40 

glacis, 39 

snow, 40 

to fry, 37 
Paste, baking powder in, 13 

butter in, 5, 13 

orisp, 12 , 



128 INDEX. 

Paste (Gontinuedy^ 

ohon, 33, 43 

fata for, 7, 13 

feniUetage, 2, 5, 7 

genoise, 79 

ioings for, 15 

puff, 2, 5-9 

rough, 8 

short, 2, 9-12 

snet, 65-69 

to fold, 4 

to " tnm " and «* rest,'* *. 8 
Pears, baked, 109 
Petits fours, 79, 117 
Petite pots k la or^me, 50, 51 
Pies and tarts, 1, 20 

k Tallianoe, 19 
apple, 17 

apricot, 18 

banana and damson, 18 
fruit, 16, 17 
gooseberry, 16 
grape, 18 
mince, 23 
plum, 18 

pudding, or Lent, 21 
strawberry, 18 
Prune shape, 110 
Puddings, 65 
Albert, 85 
Austrian, 79 
Austrian coffee, 8:^ 
BakeweU, 82 
banana, 87 
Berkeley, 74 
Boston, 107 
Brown Betty, 103 



INDEX. l» 



ban, 108 
cake, 69, 70, 78 
cake and cnatord, 70, 78 
caram^ 60 
Chatsworih, 82 
Obandeaii,84 
cherry, 90 
ckestnnt, 86 
children's, 105 
cocoa, 90 
ConserTatiTe, 93 
cap, 74 

castard, 58, 59 
•* dainty," 109 
Dr. Johnson's, 107 
eggless, 101 

fig, 72 

fmit batter, 104 

ftrait m^ringae, 88 

fruit tapioca, 104 

George, 91 

ginger, 72 

gingerbread, 106 

ginger sponge, 100 

golden, 71, 106 

half pay, 72 

harvest, 75 

hydropathic, 106 

imitation bomt cream, 102 

imperial, 72, 80 

lemon, 71 

macaroni, 107 

Manchester, 82 

marrow, 81 

monsseline, 94 

Nassau, 85 

nnrAeiy, 96 

Paradise, 7^ 



INDEX. 

PoddmgB (ContintMd)— 
pineapple, 80 
PittenorisT, 76 
plum, 71, 74, 75 

„ vegetarun, 71 
pressFved ginger, 73 
piimroee, 83 
Qaeen's, 89 
Badicat, 108 
tailwaj, 83 



rioe and other oeraalH, 97 
Rhode Island, 107 
saSroa, 71 

SazDD, 91 

sorap, 75 
Snowdeu, 73 
StatFer, 75 

Staffs. Yeomanry, 90 
sponge, 82, 101 
BpoDge cake, 106 
Stockholm, 110 
strawberry, 1 01 
enet, 65-69, 99 

„ to boil, 63 

„ almond. 71 

„ roly-poly, 67 

to boU. 69 

u i> apple, 67 



VienneBB, S2 
WukeBeld, 07 
welcome guast, 
Wiesbaden. 92 



INDEX. 13J 



Pnddings (Continued)-^ 

Zenda, 76 
Pnits d'amour, 27 
Bice croquettes, 103 
Roll, cherry, 100 

chocolate, 83 

snltana, 100 

Swiss, 78 
Saace, Albert, 85 

Austrian coffee, 84i 

brown, 93 

fairy butter, 104 

George, 91 

ginger, 100 

hard, 103 

jam, 93 

jam and liqueur, 83 

liqaeur, 122 

mousseline, 94 

mm custard, 7ri 

Sabayou, 91 

syrup, 115 

whip, 76, 92 
Savarin, 122 
Soufflees, 47 

u la vanille, 47 

au chocolat, 43 

au riz, 48 

fresh fruit, 48 

mou8?sp, 49 
Tarts, 1, 20 

French, 27 

Manon, 26 

treacle, 25 
Tartlet cases, 26 
Tourtes, 29-30 

k la Paris ienne, 18 

praliiiees k I'Anglaise, 31 
Vacherin k la crfeme, 6o 
Victoria sandwich, 79 



Advertitemenle. 



FOR FIRST-CLASS 

jellie; 

ALWAYS USE 

NELSON'S 
OPAQUE 
■' 'TIN 



s. 



c^ 



Tti? series consist of the ioiiowlng: 

BOUPS. 

ICES. 

PICKI.BB AND PBKmBVKS. 



BBBAKTAST AflD tOIfOK DISKIS. 

3A1.ADS, SA^BOWIOBM, W.1. BATOimiB.. 

VSOETABUtSt 

BRl'Ll). CAXM. AMD BIBOUITS. 

FISH P»rt I. ' 

„ Part H. (Cold «^). 
HOUSEHOLD "aiV'tU 



C^ 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



IE E 




THE "QUEEN" COOKERY BOOKS. 



No. 1. 

SOUPS. 



w 



I. 



^ 



COLLECTED AND DESCRIBED BT 



S. BEATY-POWNALL, 

Departmental Editor " Housewife and Cuisine," Queen Newspaper, 
and Author of ** A Book of Sauces." 



THIRD EDITION, 



LONDON : 

HORACE COX, 

•*QUEEN'* OFFICE, WINDSOR HOUSE, 
BREAM'S BUILDINGS, E.G. 



1904. 



Adverli$emeni$. 



E NIvW YORJ 
Lie T.j.UiAUY 

7441 B 




19 



PERIAL 

AM ASK 

LE LINEN 

(Made from Best Irish Flax), 
IN NEWEST PATTERNS. 

With Serviettes to Match Cloths. 

DAMASK IN All SIZES AND QDAIITIES 

KItohon Dmmmmk givom SplondM Mfaar* 

OPENWORK THAT AND SIDEBOARD CLOTHS. 

Best Lln«n Sheetins and Pliioiv Lln«n. 

FINEST COTTON TWILL SHEETING. 



W. J. ROCHE, 



HAHUFACTUSEB, 




JSBtablUhed 1859* 

Write for Samples, Post Free. 
IGN AND COLONIAL ORDERS HAVE PROMPT ATTENTION. 



^ PRtlFAGE. 

^ Little, if any, originality is claimed for the 

^ following recipes, most of which have appeared in 

^the Cookery columns of the Qiieen during the 

* last eight or nine yea^s, from whence they have 

5^ been collected at. the request of many readers of 

M the Queen, to save reference to back numbers not 

.£|ilways within reach. Additional recipes have, how- 

^ever, been given, to bring this little work as much 

^up to date as possible; but all these, like the 

^previous ones, have been carefully tested, and are 

^all (as I know from practical experience) well within 

J the capacity of any ordinary " good plain cook," 
gifted with fair intelligence and a little goodwill. 
I desire also to take this opportunity of acknow- 
ledging my indebtedness to the various authors of 
standard foreign cookery books, and also to offer 
my grateful thanks to Mrs. A. B. Marshall, and 
several other well-known chefs, whose kindness 
has so materially helped and rendered possible my 
work in these last vears. 

S. Beaty-Pownall. 

April, 1904, 



FOR FIRST-CLASS 

JELLIES 

ALWAYS USE 

NELSON'S 
OPAQUE 
GEUTINE. 



CONTEXTS. 



CHAPTER I. 
Stocks and Consommes ... ... ... ... ihuj>' 1 

CHAPTER II. 
Consommes — [continued) ... ... . 17 

CHAPTER HI. 
Pnr^a :U 

CHAPTER IV. 
Pnr^a — {continued) i:\ 

CHAPTER V. 
Broths and Thickened Soups ... ... . . (51 

CHAPTER VI. 
Broths and Thickened Soups— (ro/jfi7n<€d) Sf) 

CHAPTER VII. 
Foreign Soups, Ac 103 

CHAPTER VIII. 
Odds and Ends ... 121 



A dveriisements. 



The Largest Mustard Manufacturers in the World. 



COLMAN'S MUSTARD. 

Ask for D.8>F., with the yellow label, and see that 
COLMAN'S flame and the Bull's Head are on the tin. 



Obtained the GRAND PRIX, Paris Exhibition, 1900. 



COLMAN'S CORN FLOUR, 

For BLANC MANGES, CUSTARDS, <&c? 
Made by ifest Process from Rice, 



COLMAN'S SELF-RISING 

FLOUR. 

Made from the Finest Brands of Wheat, 

For BREAD, PASTRY, CAKES, PUDDINGS, 

SCONES, &c. 



J. & J. CoLiviAN Ltd., 

M, Cannon Street, London, E.G., & Carrow Works, Norwich, 



SOUPS. 



CHAPTEE I. 

STOCKS AND CONSOMMES. 

Since the increase in culinary taste of late years, a 
growing dissatisfaction with the methods and per- 
formances of the **good plain crok" has arisen in 
the land. Unfortunately, it cannot be denied that 
that estimable female is somewhat wanting in gas- 
tronomic lore, and at times leaves a good deal to be 
desired in her culinary practice. This deficiency is 
by no means to be wondered at when one considers 
the small chances she has of acquiring practical 
knowledge in this matter. I say "practical" 
advisedly, for of theoretical teaching there is enough 
and to spare, and its results are only too evident in 
the present state of affairs, when cookery teachers 
can. be found by the score, competent (?) to teach 
every branch of kitchen knowledge ; while to find a 
really trustworthy, capable cook, one's adventures 
would easily rival those of Diogenes and his lantern ! 
Under these circumstances, imless ladies themselves 

B 



• • • • • 



2 SOUPS. 

are able to point out what they require, and smooth 
away difficulties, the trouble will tend rather to 
increase than to diminish. Fashions, like water, 
run down, not up ; and once it becomes a matter of 
course for ladies to possess, and use, culinary 
knowledge, cookery will no longer be classed as 
amongst the menial occupations of womanhood. It 
is all very well to say, as many do, that our modern 
tendency is to attach far too much importance to 
culinary matters, but the fact remains that on these 
matters depend the major part of our national 
health and strength. Most certainly the cure for 
our national disgrace— drunkenness— wiU have to 
come from the kitchen. Under these circumstances, 
I offer no further excuse for the following informa- 
tion, which may, in a small way, perhaps, help 
young housekeepers on the road to housewifely 
perfection. 

Stock, as the liquor obtained by boiling down 
various nutritious (though not necessarily animal) 
substances is called, is of course the foundation of 
nearly all soups, whatever their kind. This stock 
may be utilized in several ways — ^viz., for consommes, 
purees, thick soups, and broths, all of wliich vary 
amongst themselves. 

Cansom/me is a clear stock obtained by simmering 
raw meat, bones, &c., in sufficient water, till all its 
succulence is extracted, the requisite flavour being 
obtained by the use of different vegetables added in 
varying proportions, and carefully considered quan- 
tities of spices. This stock is then clarified (after 
freeing it from all trace oi iat^ -wiWi iice^lv meat, egg 



STOCKS AND CONSOMMES. 3 

whites and shells, &c. A very fair dear soup often, 
though improperly, called consomme, may be obtained 
from cooked bones, or a mixture of raw and cooked 
ones. This, if clarified nicely, produces a very 
palatable soup, answering most of the purposes of 
consomm^, though gourmets would at once detect 
the difference, from the gelatinous flavour imparted 
by the use of bones. 

Purees are produced by pounding, or crushing 
through a sieve or tammy, the solid material, v^e- 
table or animal, of which it is made. This form of 
soup is one of the most economical and also about 
the easiest to make. The one point to consider 
about this soup is that the solid part is apt to 
separate from the fluid, and no matter how fine 
the sieve or tanmiy used, to become gritty or 
granular in the process. To counteract this a 
liaison (as it is technically called), or thickening, 
consisting of either egg yolks, or some form of 
starch, mixed with a little milk or cream, is added. 

Thickened soups consist of clear stock (generally 
made with bones, &c.) or second stock (obtained by 
re-utilising the materials used in making first-class 
consomm^), thickened by the addition of eggs, cr. 
some form of starch, such as flour, arrowroot, sago, 
tapioca, &c., or of a combination of these. 

Broth is simply stock freed from grease and 
served otherwise just as it is cooked, with the 
vegetables, rice, &c., used in its composition, left 
in it. A typical example of this is the so-called 
Scotch broth. 

These four divisions reptesexLV, ^'^ ^^ax\ssvsa» ^S^^^s». 

B 2 



4 SOUPS. 

of soups, thoTigli the soups themselyes, or rather their 
foundations, may be either meat, poultry, fish, or 
vegetables, and very often a mixture; but the 
method of making is the same, though the actual 
ingredients may be varied. 

Besides these names, however, cooks employ 
various phrases and words which occasionally serve 
to puzzle the beginner ; for instance, " first stock," 
" second stock," together with " flavoured " and "un- 
flavoured " stocks. Now the first stock is simply 
the liquid obtained by the first boiling of the 
material (whatever its nature), whereas second 
stock is obtained by using over again the bones, 
meat, Ac, used in preparing consomme, clear, or 
gravy soup, together with the fresh meat and 
vegetables (carefully rinsed) employed in clearing 
the latter. This second stock is naturally weaker 
than the first, but forms an admirable basis for 
purees, thick soups, gravies, sauces, <fec. Besides 
this there is another form of stock derived frorn^ 
the boiling down of all sorts of fragments, such 
as the bones, cooked and raw, of poultry, game,- 
or butcher's meat (or for fish soups, the bones 
and trimmings of fish may be similarly utilised), 
the giblets, legs, necks, &c., of any poultry or game, 
the scraps trimmed from joints of meat intended 
for entrees, the rinds, trimmings, and fag ends of 
tongues, hams, or bacon, the trimmings and outside 
strippings of vegetables, with of course the meat 
and vegetables left over from the clearing of con- 
somme. In addition to, or mstead of the water 
used for this, the boilings of joints, poultry, Ac. 



STOCKS AND CONSOMMES. 5 

can be used, and naturallj add greatly to the flayour 
of the stock thus obtained. 

" TJnflavoured " stock is that obtained from the 
boiling down of meat and bones without any 
vegetables, whereas when vegetables are cooked with 
the meat it is called " flavoured," from the additional 
taste given by the vegetables used. The advantage 
of the unflavoured stock is that it keeps well, and 
is most suited for sickroom use, where the vege- 
table flavouring might be objected to ; while 
the flavoured kind must be looked to and boiled 
up almost daily, as the vegetables in it increase its 
tendency to sour. 

When preparing stock, more especially for con- 
sommes and clear soups, there are a few points 
that must be carefully borne in mind. One is that 
for high class consomme the meat should be care- 
fully proportioned, allowing one part of veal to 
two parts of beef; the beef gives the substance, 
but undoubtedly the veal gives the requisite delicacy 
of flavour. French cooks for le grand houillon, as 
they call this first stock, always add a little poultry 
meat, such as the carcase of an old hen, or other 
old fowl. It must be borne in mind that the meat 
used for making this stock is almost invariably used 
afterwards as a dinner dish, and is in consequence 
not allowed to boU to rags, as is only too often the 
case in English cookery. For this first stock take 
two pounds of beef from the shoulder or hough, 
free from fat and bone ; if you intend to use this 
beef later on, be careful to tie it neatly into shape 
with a broad tape, otherwise cut it into medium- 



6 SOUPS. 

sized pieces, like the veal, a pound of whicli may 
be either taken from the knuckle, or any equiyalent 
amount of trimmings left over (raw) from any 
entrfe, &c. ; add to this the carcase of a fowl, from 
which the fillets, &c. have been removed,, togethei 
with the giblets, legs, neck, &c., well seeded. 
Place this meat into a pan large enough to hold 
it comfortably, together with three quarts of cold 
water and about a small dessertspoonful of salt (be 
careful about this as it is always easy to add, 
but impossible to subtract salt), in such a way 
that the water shall be about 1 in. to 1^ ins. 
from the top of the pan, as this permits of its 
boiling up and also being easily skimmed. Now 
bring this all very slowly to the boil, watching 
it carefully and removing every bit of scum as it 
rises; just as it is about to boil up throw in a 
good tablespoonf ul of cold water, which checks the 
boil and causes the scum to rise more freely ; repeat 
this once or twice each time it seems coming to the 
boil, till no more scum rises. This must be most 
carefully attended to, as the clearness and delicacy 
of the subsequent consomme depends on it ; if any 
of the scum is allowed to stay in the soup it will 
give it a most disagreeable greenish tinge, quite 
spoiling its proper colour which should be exactly 
like very pale light sherry. 

Having thus removed all the scum, put in the 
vegetables, &c., these must be heedfully propor- 
tioned to prevent any special flavour preponderating. 
For the quantities given, allow : one middle- 
sized carrot, one middle-sized onion, one good 



STOCKS AND CONSOMMES. 7 

■leek, one small turnip (all lialved), a slice or two 
of parsnip, if handy, and half a small stick of 
celery (or, failing this, half a teaspoonful of celery 
seed, tied up in a piece of muslin), and a honqtiet 
f garni, made by tieing together a small bunch of 
parsley, one or two green onions, a spray of thyme, 
and one bayleaf . A clove or two may be stuck into 
one half of the onion, if the flavour is liked. The 
tidiest way of putting these vegetables into the soup 
• is by placing them all into a small net, which can 
be lifted out as a whole, for the vegetables should 
not be left in the soup when thoroughly cooked ; for 
' after this point is reached, they will weaken the soup 
by absorbing the flavour of the meat, (N.B. — These 
vegetables should on no account be thrown away, foi 
they will be found far more delicately flavoured than 
plain boiled ones, and make a delicious macedoine, or 
can be used for a homely but very palatable form of 
pur^e.) Now cover the pan after the stock has 
come back to the boil (putting in the cold vegetables 
is sure to put it off the boil for a little), draw it to 
the side of the stove and let it simmer as gently as 
may be for four to five hours (remembering about 
lifting out the vegetables), after which you pour it 
into a basin through a strainer. Let it stand till 
next day, or at any rate till perfectly cold, when all 
the fat must be very thoroughly removed. This fat 
must be carefully saved, as it is amongst the best 
materials for frying piuposes. In many cases soup 
thus made is so clear that it will need no clarifying, 
but should it do so, proceed thus : Pass half a pound 
of lean beef (a piece from the neck, called the 



8 SOUPS. 

" sticking piece," answers admirably for tMs pur- 
pose) two or three times through the mincer, and 
put this into a delicately- clean pan, with a slice or 
two each of carrot, turnip, celery, and leek (do not 
add onion now, as it is apt to make the soup cloudy), 
a tiny bouquet, and the whites and shells of two or 
three eggs. The shells should have been washed if 
at all dirty, and crushed, and the whites lightly 
beaten till just frothy. Pour on to this the cold 
stock, and whisk it with a very clean whisk for a 
few moments, till it is all thoroughly mixed and just 
on the boil; as soon as you see that the head of 
froth, which will have formed on the top of the 
stock, begins to heave slowly, stop whisking, and 
let it boil gently, Tindisturbed for five minutes ; then 
draw it to the side of the range, and let it simmer 
quietly for about an hour; let it stand for a few 
minutes to settle, then strain it off very carefully 
through a scalded soup cloth or a very clean old 
table napkin. The great points in clarifying the 
stock are to mix the latter very thoroughly with the 
fresh meat, egg, <&c., before the whole becomes so 
hot as to curdle the albumen of the egg, &c., and 
then be careful after the rising of the white froth 
referred to above, to leave the pan quite undisturbed, 
so as to allow the head of froth (which will form 
more and more strongly) to boil without being 
broken up. It may be mentioned that some cooks 
use white of egg and egg shells only, for clearing, 
but though these undoubtedly do clear the soup, 
they equally certainly detract from the flavour ; it is 
for this reason that the raw meat is added. 



STOCKS AND CONSOMMES. 9 

The above ia in reality a form of ihe famous 
French pot an feu, and the stock produced from 
it is most dehcate, but of not more than a pale 
straw colour. However, at present, pale-coloured 
CODBomm^ is the mode. It may be well at this 
point to say a word or two reapectinj the process 
of straining, which is sometimee a little trouble- 
some to the novice. If dear soups are much liked 




Fig! 1, rig. a. 

in the family it is quite worth while to invest in 
a proper soup strainer stand (Fig. 1) (which can 
also be utilised with a proper jelly bag, as a jelly 
stnuner), but a very decent substitute can be made 
by turning up a chair with its seat on a table, 
or another chair, the basin for the soup being placed 
on the seat, and the stock run through the cloth 
fastened to the legs. The accompanying illustration 
(Fig, 2) gives the best idea oi ftoa ^iQTQa-TaBi&a, '^uas^ 



10 SOUPS. 

A oontriyancc of this sort has the advantage that 
the cook can see how the stock is ninuing, and can 
return it at once if it does not seem to be running 
clear. Eemeniber the stock must not be turned 
carelessly into the napkin, but should be poured 
slowly and gently in, to avoid breaking the head 
of froth, &c. on the top. Perhaps, on the whole, 
the best plan is to use a cup or a ladle, and so 
lift it out carefully. This process, though apparently 
somewhat more trouble, is in reality a saving of time 
and trouble, as, treated thus, the soup will strain 
clear at once, whereas by the rougher process it may 
have to be put through the strainer two or three 
times. 

The above is the real consomme, the pure infusion 
of the meat ; but a very fair and certainly less 
expensive consomme may be made in precisely the 
same way, only using beef and veal bones instead of 
the actual meat. Of course the same remark applies 
to these as to the meat, viz., all fat must be carefully 
removed, the marrow taken from the bones, and the 
bones themselves broken up. If a darker stock is 
desired, put an ounce or so of well clarified dripping 
into the pan, before laying in the meat and the 
vegetables, and when this is hot lay in the bones, 
vegetables, herbs, &c. ; cover down the pan and let it 
all fry together till the contents are nicely browned at 
the bottom of the pan, then put in the water and 
finish off as before. If a teaspoonful of brown 
sugar be fried with the rest of the ingredients, it 
enhances the colour and the flavour to all, save the 
more delicate palate of the gourmet. 



STOCKS AND CONSOMMES 11 

A similar stock can be made with cooked bones, 
the carcases and giblets, &c., of poultry and game, 
to which the well- scraped rind of a few slices of 
bacon may be added, and this, if clarified, is by no 
means to be despised as a homely form of clear soup, 
though of course it lacks the delicacy of the true 
consomm^. 

For this homelier form of clear soup you will 
require 61b. to 81b. of beef and veal bones for 
three quarts of water. Of the used bones take a 
somewhat larger proportion for the same quantity 
of liquid. 

After making either of the consommes described 
above, some very decent second stock can be made 
by putting into a pan the bones already used, 
together with the meat used in clarifying it (see that 
this has been weU rinsed from any egg slieU, Ac.), 
together with some fresh vegetables, herbs, &c., and 
repeating the above process. It is worth the thrifty 
housewife's while to remember that mutton bones, 
especially the shank bones, &c., will make a very fair 
and colourless stock, which may serve as a basis for 
white stock, as it has but Kttle flavour of its own, 
and readily assimilates that of the poultry or game 
used to flavour it, or " perfume *' it, as the French 
chefs say. Of course, for the best white stock equal 
quantities of veal and chicken, or rabbit bones or 
carcases, should be used, say 31b. or 41b. of each, 
together with the vegetables, the whole naturally 
not being previously fried. Game soup would be 
made in the same manner, the meat used in clarify- 
iiig being raw chicken or rabbit and raw game 



12 SOUPS. 

respectively. An economical form of either may be 
made by taking 31b. or 41b. of poultry or game 
bones, either roast or raw, and breaking these up ; 
proceed precisely as before, but instead of using 
water use second stock, either of veal or mutton if 
white stock is desired, or of beef and veal if brown 
game soup is wanted. In the latter case the bones, 
vegetables, Ac, should be lightly fried first to 
deepen the colour, which for game should of course 
be a rich, dark brown. For this latter soup mush- 
rooms are a great addition to the flavour. This 
will explain the various methods of making meat 
stock. 

Fish stock is made practically in the same way. 
For every quart of water allow a full pound of fish 
and fish trimmings, such as the heads, tails, bones, 
&c., of any firm-fleshed wjiite fish, such as cod, 
haddock, halibut, &c. ; to these may be added the 
shells, &c., of lobsters, the heads and tails of 
slirimps, prawns, &c., together with a carrot and one 
or two onions sliced, a dessert spoonful of lemon 
juice (this must, of course, vary to taste), and a good 
bouquet. For this take a bunch of parsley, and on 
this lay a strip of the yellow peel of a lemon, two 
cloves, a bay leaf, a spray of thyme, two or thi*ee 
young spring onions, and, if liked, a small blade of 
mace. Turn the parsley down over this, and tie it 
up firmly with a little cotton. Put a few pepper- 
corns to the rest, then cover it with water, just as 
for any other consomme ; bring it all just to the 
boil, skim well till no more scum rises, then draw it 
to the Bide of the stove, and let it all simmer 



STOCKS AND CONSOMMES. 13 

together steadily for one to one and a half hours. 
This stock must be allowed to cool, be freed from 
fat, and finally be clarified with egg whites and 
shells and raw fish, precisely like meat stock. This 
gives a clear and colourless stock. K you wish for 
a brown fish stock, you must fry the bones, herbs, 
vegetables, &c., in a little oil or butter for twelve to 
fifteen minutes, being careful to dry the fish trim- 
mings well before putting them in to fry. The 
original stock, unclarified, forms an excellent basis 
for all fish soups, or hisquesy as the purees of shell- 
fish are called. Only firm-fleshed white fish can be 
used as a basis for fish stock ; such fish as salmon, 
mackerel, herring, &c., would make it unusably rich 
and oily. 

For vegetable stock allow a full pound of mixed 
vegetables to the quart of liquid; take carrots, 
turnips, leeks, onions, and celery, putting into the 
pan 6oz. of carrots to 4oz. of turnips, 2^oz. each of 
l^ks and onions, and loz. of celery ; mince down all 
the vegetables, and fry the onions and leeks in a 
little butter till slightly coloured, then lay in the 
rest of the vegetables, a dust of sugar, a pinch of 
salt, and a little pepper ; fry these all for a few 
minutes, then moisten them all with two or three 
spoonfuls of water, cover down the pan, and let it 
all come to a glaze ; this makes the stock clearer. 
Now pour on to it the requisite quantity of water, 
bring to the boil, skim well, then draw the pan to 
the side of the range, and throw in a handful each 
of mushrooms and dried peas, and let it «iV ^jmssssssst 
eteadilj, till the vegeta\)\ea ate ^Ti«^0i^::5 ^os^^^O^^ 



14 SOUPS. 

have not become a mash, and then strain off. This 
stock may be clarified just like the others. 

Another form of vegetable stock is made thus: 
Take lOoz. of dried peas, 3oz. carrots, 2^oz. onions, 
^z. celery or celery seed, and a nice bunch of herbs 
for each quart of water ; season to taste, and fry or 
not, according to the colour you wish your soup to 
be, and finish off precisely as before. This is not as 
delicate as the first one, which makes a really first- 
rate vegetable consomme. The water in which 
vegetables have been boiled, beans especially, forms 
an excellent vegetable second stock, always granting 
that no soda has been allowed to cook with them. 

Before concluding this chapter on stocks, one may 
as well make the following observations. In houses 
where soup is liked, all meat trimmings, bones, 
carcases, giblets, <fcc., of poultry and game, strip- 
pings of vegetables, &c., all liquid in which meat or 
v^etables have been cooked (or, indeed, fish when 
fish stock is in question), always premising that no 
soda has been used in boiling the vegetables, must 
be carefully saved. All these, properly, trimmed and 
rinsed, come in handy for the stock pot, and 
economise in the matter of stock meat — ^frequently 
a cause of disagreement between mistress and maid. 
At the same time the cook must understand that 
her stock pot, if she have one, or the saucepan which 
does duty in that capacity, is not a kind of culinary 
dustbin, into which any waste substances can be 
promiscuously shot. It is to inattention to this 
rule that the stock pot has frequently received con- 
tumely. No fat, no bread ox toa«.t, ii'&V^i^cie^ ^aibba^ 



STOCKS AND CONSOMMES. 15 

nor potatoes, cooked or raw, and no odds and ends 
of sauces can find a last resting-place in the stock 
pot. They may all be utilised in their proper place, 
but this place, I respectfully submit to the cook, is 
emphatically not the stock pot ! 

A stock pot should be treated systematically, and 
thus treated is a most valuable accessory, requiring 
after the first, little or no trouble. Put the ingre- 
dients of which you propose making your stock ready 
into the pan in the morning, before the real heavy 
work of the kitchen begins ; bring it to the boil, and 
then let it simmer at the side of the fire the proper 
time, after which the whole thing should be emptied 
out of the pot, strained, the liquid being set aside to 
get cool, and the bones, &c., rinsed in warm water if 
to be used again, or put away at once if for no 
further use, the stock pot itself being well washed 
out and dried and put away, till wanted for the next 
day's supply of stock. The next day, after re-filling 
and re-starting the stock pot, the previous day's 
supply can be freed from fat, clarified if necessary, 
or boiled up if not wanted for present use. 
Flavoured stock such as this must be boiled up 
every day, or it will become sour and spoilt. Ee- 
member not to put anything more into the pot after 
the stock has once been started; set any remains 
you may have tidily away for next day's use. It 
cannot be too strongly impressed on young cooks 
that attention to detail and the most scrupulous 
cleanliness are indispensable in soup-making, and 
indeed in every kind of cookery, if success la tA Vsfe 
attained. 



16 SOUPS. 

Except in the case of large households, and with 
such this L'ttle book does not profess to deal, it 
will be found in every way more satisfactory to 
make only small quantities of stock at a time, as 
this prevents any risk of souring, which, in hot 
weather especially, is a frequent cause of waste. 
The cook should reckon about how much she is 
likely to want, and so prepare the requisite quantity 
for each day's consumption at a time. 

Lastly, whilst on the subject of consommes and 
clear soups, housewives will find it convenient to 
remember the various forms of preserved soups, 
which in times of storm and stress are of the 
greatest assistance if skilfully handled. Of these 
the chief are probably — ^in bottles. Brand's, Crosse 
and Blackwell*s, Lazenby*s, &c. ; whilst in solid 
shape may be mentioned the well-known Maggi 
Oonsomm^ Capsules (together with the same maker's 
invaluable little bottle of essence, a few drops from 
^hich imparta such marvellous distinction to a 
previously weak soup), Lazenby's soup squares, and 
l^st, but not least, Marshall's ** Sildeen,". a new and 
capital preparation for amateurs and novices in the 
culinary art, as it requires little, if any, attention 
save heating. 



CHAPTER II. 

CONSOMMES (Continued). 

Having mastered the preparation of stock, and 
obtained practice in the art of clarifying it, it is 
perfectly easy to produce an almost endless variety 
of consommes, as every fresh garnish introduces a 
fresh name at all events, and really it is on these 
same garnishes that the variety of the soup depends. 
To begin with, consomme can be served plain ; it can 
have the vegetable used to flavour it, cut up neatly 
and served in it, when it is generally abroad known 
as consomme a la hourgeoiae, a la fermiere, or a la 
paysanne, according as the vegetables are cut up in 
dice, in triangles, or in rounds, &c. It may bo 
served with tarragon, chervil, parsley, fennel, &c., 
either in tiny sprigs, or finely minced, a combination 
known abroad as a pluche (probably from the word 
eplucher — to pick to pieces), and which can appear 
alone or as a supplement to some other garnish, 
as in the C. Marie-Louise, &c. Or the long slender 
leaves of the green tarragon may be used ; or the 
soup will take its name from the peas, asparagus 
points, or other vegetables used as a garnish, while 
the pates d* Italia (macaroni in various forms, such 
as spaghetti, lazagnes, vermicelli, &c.) and eggs 

c 



18 SOUPS. 

treated in different ways are all responsible for 
different appellations. Besides these there are an 
almost infinite variety of distinctive titles for con- 
somme, some of which are classic and belong to all 
kitchens, whilst others owe their existence to passing 
fashions, topical allusions, and even political events. 
In fact many chefs invent names for tiny variations^ 
introduced by themselves, for special occasions, which 
gain currency for a little time and then die out, or if 
successful obtain acceptance in kitchen nomencla- 
ture, in the place of their invention, though their 
fame may be only local. As an example, take the 
dinners given lately in honour of various great men, 
when Potage a la Nansen, Olace Polaire, Biftek 
u la Kitchener, Consomme Soudan, or similar titles, 
adorned the menus de drconstance, and served to 
puzzle the guests, who in many cases scarcely recog- 
nised old friends under their new names. French 
cooks have at all times been noted for this mania for 
names, and carried their politics as far into their 
kitchens as in every other department of life. For 
instance, a century since, in the days of the great 
Revolution, sauce maitre d'hotel became sauce a 
Vhomme de confiance, and cutlets, or something of 
that kind, a la servante, were re-named a la honne 
femmey the former names being held to smack too 
strongly of a corrupt aristocracy to be fit for the 
use of devout citizens. 

Before giving some small list of well known 
garnitures^ it may be well to say a few words respect- 
ing the preparation of some of the commoner of these. 
The herbs used in the pluche are either picked into 



CONSOMMES. 19 

small pieces, or finely minced, but in any case are 
served raw. Except in the cases given above where 
the stock-pot vegetables are used for garnish, the 
trinmied and shaped vegetables used should be cooked 
separately and only added to the soup at the time of 
serving. Carrots, turnips, celery, leeks, onions, and 
such like root vegetables, are after trimming, usually 
put on in cold water, which is brought to the boil, 
when the vegetables are at once strained off, and 
their cooking finished in a few spoonfuls of stock 
with a dust of salt and sugar, till they are almost 
glazed with the stock. Each sort should properly 
be cooked separately, to retain as much as possible 
the individual flavour. Green and delicate vege- 
tables, such as young green peas, French beans, 
asparagus points, &c., are simply boiled quickly to 
preserve their delicate colouring, in salted water. 
Fried bread, technically known as croutons, should 
be stamped out in rounds from the size of a shilling 
to a crown piece, according to the use to which they 
are put, and are then fried in well clarified dripping 
or fresh butter to a golden brown, and carefully 
freed from all fat and grease by draining on a sheet 
of kitchen paper. For croute au pot and such soups, 
many cooks prepare the croutons thus : — Having 
stamped out the sliced bread, these are soaked in 
stock, preferably that from which the fat has not 
been removed, and are then set on a buttered tin in 
the oven and left there till of a delicate brown, and 
quite crisp. It is a mistake to cut the fried bread 
for soups into dice, as only too many English cooks 
insist on doing ; as prepared thus, they simply dry 

c 2 



20 SOUPS. 

up into little rocks, whicli can neither be bitten u 
digested, and are consequently horribly ixnwholeson 
Next in importance are quenelles, looked upon 
many cooks as impossibilities, yet in reality ca^^ 
enough to prepare, granted care and intelligent^^ 
For these, prepare a light forcemeat by mincing ve -^ 
finely say 5oz. of any kind of meat, white or broT^-^ * 
fish, &c., and pounding it smoothly, seasoning it 
rather highly to taste, and mixing it with 5oz. of 
panada (a thick sort of melted butter, made of 5oz. 
fine flour, loz. of butter, and half a pint of water), 




Fig. 3. 

and again pounding it all together, then working it 
up to a smooth mass with the yolks of two or three 
eggs ; it is next rubbed through a sieve (this is not 
necessary for ordinary use if the poundiag has been 
attended to), and either shaped with two very small 
spoons (Fig. 3.), or forced out of a bag with a 
small pipe shaped to taste, in httle balls, stars, <&c., 
on to a buttered pan (Fig. 4.), and in either case 
poached in boiling stock or water. 

Another capital form of quenelles are the German 
hread quenelles made thus: — Melt 5oz. of butter, 
and work into it 7oz. of bread crumb, moistening 



consomm:6s. 21 

it all "with about a gill of cream or new milk, 
till you have a smooth, lithe paste about the 
consistency of that used for Eclairs, work into 
this when cool two or more egg yolks, a dust 
of sugar, salt and coralline pepper, and lastly, a 
handful of grated Parmesan cheese; test a piece 
by poaching it in a little boiling stock or water, to 
see if it is the right consistency, then shape it like 
any other quenelles, and either poach as before, or 
fry in plenty of clean boiling fat. In the latter case 




Fig. 4. 

these little dumplings should not be placed into the 
soup tureen, but be handed round separately. If 
the paste for these is too thick dilute with a little 
more cream; if too thin, thicken with a little 
additional Hour. These dumplings are a nice addition 
to consommes whose garnish consists of plain Tege- 
tables, notably green peas, pluche, &c. Custard 
for soup, generally called "royale," is very < j 
prepared. Lightly beat together two whole • 
with two tablespoonfuls oi cteaja. ox ^\ft^, ^«i^. 



22 SOUPS. 

coralline pepper to taste, strain tliis into little well- 
buttered cups or moulds, cover these with pieces of 
buttered paper, stand the cups in a stewpan with 
some boiling water, and steam these custards for ten 
minutes or so, till firm. Mind they do not boil in 
the -process or the custard will not be smooth, but 
watery and full of holes. Turn out when cold, cut 
into any desired shapes, and rinse well in a little 
warm water before adding them to the soup. These 
custards are often coloured by the addition of a few 
drops of the desired vegetable colourinpf. But this 
is a matter requiring judgment, for nothing is in 
worse taste than the mania some cooks have for 
changing the natural colours of the substances they 
use. The last garnishes needing mention are the 
various forms of macaroni, rice, sago, &c., which 
should all be cooked separately, and well rinsed 
before being added to the soup. If this precaution 
is omitted, the soup will infallibly be clouded. 

To boil macaroni, or any of the numerous paste 
now sold for soup garnishing, remember that it 
must be cooked in a very generous amount of 
salted and fast boiling water, which must be kept 
boiling sharply all the time the macaroni is cook- 
ing. Macaroni must be watched closely while 
cooking, and the moment it is cooked its water 
must be instantly put off the boil by the sudden 
addition of a pint of ice cold water for a large pan. 
Unfortunately, macaroni varies in the time it takes 
to cook, according to its variety, age, condition, &c. 
The only way to test it is to bite a piece, and if it 
eats short and crisp, though tender, it is done, and 



CONSOMMES. 23 

ihe cold water must be added at once. Kinse in a 
little boiling stock before adding it to the consomme 
or it will cloud the latter. Abroad, in Italy 
especially, the macaroni is always cooked in the 
8onp, which, in consequence, is never quite clear. 
Average sized pipe macaroni takes generally from 
twenty to thirty minutes to cook, but it is better 
to watch it than to rely on time. 

There are of course scores of garnishes for soup, 
in fact their number is only limited by the cook or 
cheFs imagination ; but I have contented myself by 
giving such as are well within the limits of an 
ordinarily intelligent cook, who can depend on the 
assistance of a kitchenmaid, or a maid told ofE 
for that purpose, for the time being. 

While on the subject of additions to consommes, a 
word of warning must be given in regard to wine, so 
freely poured into the tureen by many cooks. That 
wine is a great addition in many cases admits of no 
denial, but it must possess the virtue of modesty, 
and not assert its presence too enmhatically, or it 
will utterly destroy the delicacy of the consomme, in 
which the taste of the original stock, together with 
the flavour of the garnish from which it takes its 
name, should be clearly present. Over-seasoning, like 
over-colouring, is one of the great culinary vulgarities 
of the present day, and always leads a connoisseur 
to suspect that there is something wrong with the 
original soup, which the wine, &c , is used to conceal. 

Consomme Alexandra. — Clear light consomme, 
garnished with little stamped-out rounds of cooked 
chicken and dried blanched ekexu^^. 



24 SOUPS. 

ConsommS Andalouae. — Clear beef consomme, 
garnished with strips of cooked cucumber and 
shapes of tomato custard, or slices of fried tomato. 

Consomme Baviere. — Light coloured consomm^, 
with quenelles of semolina and cheese, made like 
the (German bread quenelles mentioned above. 

Consomme Brahan^onne, — Clear fish stock, with 
sliced fish quenelles, and crayfish tails or cooked 

prawns. 

Consomms Brunoise. — Ordinary consomm^^ with 
dice of cooked carrots, celery, leeks, turnips, &c. 

Consomme Celestine. — Consommd, with tiny pan- 
cakes cut into Julienne strips. 

Consomms Chasseur, — Clear, rather dark, game, 
soup, with game quenelles. 

Consomms Chiffonade. — A light consomme with a 
garnish of young green peas, and stamped out 
rounds of lettuce. Some cooks add rounds of 
sorrel, but in any case these rounds must be 
blanched. 

Consomms Christine. — Light consomm^, either meat 
or poultry, garnished with small cooked chestnuts 
and dried cherries. 

Consomme Chrisiophe Colomh. — Chicken consomme, 
with diamonds of hard-boiled white of egg, and 
of very yellow custard. 

ConsommS Clermont, — ^Eather dark consomm^ with 
rings of delicately fried and drained onions. 

Consomme Coch-a-Leehie. — Chicken stock, with 
shreds of chicken, pearl barley, and shredded cooked 
leeks. 

Consomms Colbert. — Rather dark consomme with 



CONSOMMES. 25 

little balls of cooked Jemsalem artichokes. Or, light 
stocky with shredded cooked celery, glazed button 
onions, Jerusalem artichoke balls, and blanched 
lettuce. 

Consomme Condorcet. — Clear game consomme, with 
game quenelles, asparagus points, and cubes of foie 
gras trufEe'. 

CoTisommi Crecy. — Light stock rather strongly 
flavoured with catrot, and garnished with little balls 
of glazed carrots. 

Consomms Croute-au-pot, — Ordinary consomm^ 
with small croutons, and a garnish of the stock 
vegetables neatly shredded. See above for prepara- 
tion of croutons for this soup. 

Consomme Cussy. — Clear vegetable stock, with 
button onions stewed in sugar and butter, and either 
croutons and grated Parmesan, or the German bread 
balls. 

Consomme WArtois. — Light consomme with young 
green peas and a pluche. Sometimes called Con- 
somm^ a la St. Germains. 

Consomme d^Esclignac. — ^Light consomme, with 
little cooked turnip balls and cubes of custard. 
Sometimes made with chicken stock and tiny chicken 
quenelles with the turnip balls. 

Consomme d* Orleans, — Rather dark consomme, 
with little green and white quenelles, the green 
either coloured, or made with spinach. 

Comomm4 d^ Or say. — Clear stock, asparagus points, 
tiny pigeon fillets, and very small poached eggs; 
pigeons' eggs for choice, if procurable. 

Consomme Buchesse. — Light stock, chicken prefer- 



26 SOUPS. 

ablj, with tiny savoury (cheese) profiteroles and 
vegetables cut into shapes. 

Consomme Ihic de Norfolk, — Clear fish stock, with 
small fillets of smelts, and coloured and white fish 
quenelles. 

Consomme Due de York, — ^A variation of the 
Chasseur consomme. 

Consomme Dufferin, — Clear fish stock curried, 
with stamped-oat roimds of cooked sole and 
rice. 

Consomme Bustan. — ^Eather dark stock, with white 
haricot beans. 

Consomme Fleury, — Mixed vegetables and cooked 
rice. 

Consomme Florentine, — Light stock and cheese 
quenelles. 

Consomme Frangaise, — Second stock, or beef 
bouillon, and mixed vegetables, with a pluche. 

Consomme Garhure. — Rather dark stock, with 
bread crusts cooked as for croute au pot, then 
dusted with cheese and spread with the stock pot 
vegetables neatly trimmed, and soaked over the fire 
in a little stock. Modem cooks send the croutons 
to table separately very hot, seasoned with grated 
cheese and coralline pepper, with a little heap of 
the vegetables, moistened with the stock, on each. 

Consommi Qervaise, — White stock, with stamped- 
out rounds of cold chicken, shred cooked leeks, and 
French beans, with a pluche, and spinach custard. 

Consomme Grande Duchesse, — White stock, with 
cheese and anchovy quenelles, and shreds of chicken 
and tongue. 



CONSOMMES. 27 

Consomme JEongroise. — Clear stock, into which 
when boiling little balls of savoury choux paste 
are dropped and finished in the soup. 

CotuommS Imperatrice. — Very clear, strong con- 
somme, to which at the last moment are added 
delicately poached and trimmed fresh eggs. (A 
great restorative, said to have been first made for 
the Empress Eugenie, when tired after a hunt at 
Pontainebleau.) 

Consomme Imperiale, — Clear stock, with rounds of 
custard, printanier garnish, and some financi^re 
quenelles and rogiwna de coq. 

Consomme Indienne. — Clear mulligatawny, with 
rice, shreds of chicken, &c. 

Consomfne Innocent, — White stock, with tiny 
quenelles, shreds of chicken, shred almonds, and 
little dice of custard. 

Consomms Jardiniere. — Light stock with mixed 
v^etables cut into pretty shapes. This is also called 
(7. Macedoine. 

ConsommS Jerusalem or Palestine. — Clear 
stock with little balls of cooked Jerusalem arti- 
chokes. 

Consomme Julienne, — Light or dark stock, with 
different vegetables cut into long thin strips, hence 
known as Julienne strips. 

Consomme Klondyke. — Very clear amber stock, 
garnished with little rough lumps of choux paste, 
previously fried a delicate golden brown in plenty of 
boiling fat, and well drained. The secret of this 
lies in getting the colour of both stock and choux 
a bright, gold tint. 



28 SOUPS. 

Consomme Kursel. — The same as Printanier, with 
the addition of blanched rounds of lettuce. 

ConsommA Lelie, — ^White stock with shredded 
chicken and almonds, and tiny balls of carrot and 
turnip, cooked. 

Con8omm6 Marie-Louise, — Clear or white stock, 
with shred ham, savoury custard in dice, artichoke 
bottoms cut up, and a pluche, 

ConsommS Mdssena. — Darkish stock, with cooked 
fillets of small birds (in France, thrushes are used), 
roast chestnuts, and little nouilles. 

Consomme Montglas, — Rich clear stock, with quen- 
elles of liver farce. 

ConsommS Napoleon. — ^Dark stock, with tiny 
croquettes rolled in vermicelli, fried a golden brown, 
and well drained. 

ConsommS Napolitain, — Light stock, with shred 
cooked ham and tongue, mushrooms, and cooked 
macaroni cut in inch lengths. 

Consomms Nivemaise, — Usually light stock, with 
sliced quenelles, trimmed vegetables, and Italian 
paste of any kind ; or, only tiny carrots. 

ConsommS Palestine. — See Jerusalem. 

ConsommS Farmentier. — Light stock with little 
quenelles of mashed potato. 

Consomme Petite Marmite. — A variante of Carhure 
and croute au jpot. Generally served in tiny fire- 
proof marmiteSf or cooking pots, hence the name. 
A fried croiiton is placed in each, with the shredded 
stock-pot vegetables. 

Consi le Poissoniere, — Fish stock and fish 
«uc 



CONSOMMES. 29 

ConsommS Pompadour. — Light stock, with small 
dice of vari-coloured custard, and little balls and 
cubes of carrot, turnip, &c. 

ConsommS Portugaise, — Clear light stock, with 
shredded cooked leeks and stewed French plums. 

Consomme Prince, — Light stock, and tiny balls of 
cooked turnip. 

Consomme Prince de Galles. — Strong light stock, 
asparagus points, shreds of chicken enclosed in a 
rich cream farce in an almond shape, and pieces of 
custard to match. 

Consomme Princesse. — Clear chicken stock, with a 
chiffonade garnish and a pluche. 

Consomme Printanier. — Clear stock, with spring 
or early summer vegetables, young green peas, and 
asparagus points. 

Consomme Printanier a la Moyale, — As the pre- 
ceding, with the addition of cubes of custard. 

Consomm6 Rachel. — Clear stock, with tiny chicken 
and celery cream quenelles, truffles, and artichoke 
bottoms cut small. Or, quenelles of tarragon cream, 
lobster, and truffles (keeping the colours distinct.) 

Consomme Regence. — Clear chicken stock, with 
chicken creams, tiny white and green quenelles, some 
very young peas, and hard-boiled pigeon's, plover's, 
or pheasant's eggs. 

Consomme Romain^. — Dark stock and cheese 
quenelles. 

Consomme Rosiere. — Light stock, with tiny pink 
and white quenelles of ham and cheese. 

Consomme Royale. — Dark, very clear stock, with 
roimds and dice of custard. 



80 SOUPS. 

Consomme Russe, — Clear beef consomme with 
shreds of carrot, celery, and leeks. 

Consomme Sarah Bernhardt, — Light consomme^, 
with tiny chicken quenelles, picked watercress, and 
sliced and blanched marrow. 

Consomme Sevigne, — Chicken stock, and little 
chicken creams made verj light with whipped 
cream. 

Consomme Tolkle. — ^Light stock, little pea shapes 
of red and white custard, and a pluche. 

Consomme Trieste. — As Tolcde, with the addition 
of cooked spaghetti. 

Consomme Trois Bacines, — Strong dark consomme, 
with shred carrots, turnips, and celery roots. 

Consomme Valette, — Light coloured stock, with 
slices of Tangerine oranges, freed from pips, and 
Julienne strips of the blanched orange skin. 

Consomme Xavier, — Clear stock, with carrots, 
turnips, &c , as for Julienne, but cut into the finest 
threads, and little cubes of custard. 

It should be noted that though, according to 
English custom, both Julienne and Brunclse are 
given amongst the consommes, this is strictly speak- 
ing incorrect. The real way of preparing these 
soups is to blanch the vegetables, cut in dice or 
strips according to the use to which they are to be 
put, then to stew them in butter till three parts 
cooked, and slightly coloured, when they are placed 
in the pan, the boiling stock poured into them, and 
their cooking is thus finished in the soup itself, 
which is in consequence, if not actually clouded, yet 

er so clear as proper coiisoi3Qm<i ilvo^d be. 



CHAPTEK III. 

PUREES. 

Purines, as was said before, unlike consommes, &c., 
consist of the solid material from which the stock is 
derived, pressed through a sieve together with its 
liquid, and if necessary a further proportion of 
liquid of some kind, to bring it to the requisite 
consistency. After the question of flavour, the 
most important point in a puree is its texture. It 
must be neither too thin nor too thick; in the 
first case it will be watery, in the second it will be 
stodgy, and in either case will be a failure. A 
well-made puree should be about as thick as well- 
made melted butter (not the sticky paste that too 
frequently does duty for that compound, however) ^ 
and perfectly smooth and velvety. This is obtained 
by careful sieving and by the liaison of some kind, 
which is indispensable with all well-made purees. 
Another point to remember is that these soups 
need to be sharply made, especially when made of 
meat or strong meat stock, as these are specially 
liable to deteriorate if they have to wait before 
serving. As soon as purees are sieved, if not for 
immediate use, they should be stood in some cool 
place, or if possible on ice. Once t\3Lfe^ Vs.*^:^^ Xs^js^ 



32 SOUPS. 

sieved purees must never, on any account, actually 
boil again, though they must be sent to table as hot 
as is anyway possible. A puree that must be made 
beforehand should be rather thicker than for 
ordinary use, as to heat it when required for table, 
it must be stirred on the fire with sufficient hot 
liquid to bring it to the requisite consistency, and 
allowed to heat carefully, till it is just on (but not 
over) the point of boiling, when the liaison, of 
whatever kind is to be used, may be added to it. 
These directions, if carefully followed, will produce 
an excellent puree, almost, if not quite, as good as 
if made straight off, which with a single-handed 
cook, or one with a not too efficient assistant, is not 
always possible. It may be well to add that French 
cooks, when making a puree that will have to stand 
some time before use, allow one third of the liquid 
of the soup (or at any rate one third of the amount 
the soup will eventually require) for the sieving 
process, and add the remaining two- thirds as de- 
scribed above at the last. 

Purees can be made of almost every food stuff, 
whether meat, poultry, game, fish, or vegetables. 
In this country, with the exception of white soup, 
commonly called soupe a la reine, and hare soup, 
purees are mostly made with vegetables, and gene- 
rally dried ones, such as lentils, peas, &c., at that. 
Abroad, all sorts of remains of meat and game are 
used for this purpose, whilst of vegetables the list is 
only limited by the extent of garden produce at hand. 
Fish, save for homely and household use, is seldom 
used as a puree, save in the shape of a bisque or very 



PUREES. 33 

rich pur^e of shellfish. It is not easy to say whence 
this name is deriyed ; oddly enough it is by some, 
said to have been at first applied to a purfe of young 
wood pigeons. By other authorities the word is 
declared to have a ProYen9al origin. The fact re- 
mains that in the present day it is almost always 
confined to a thick kind of shellfish soup. 

Vegetable purees are of two kinds, the ordinary 
thick soup, and the kind known in France as a cr^me, 
so-called partly from the delicacy of its make and 
materials, partly from the amount of milk or cream 
used in its composition. A erkne is generally some- 
what thinner than a pur^e, and is mostly served with 
some kind of garnish, whereas the ordinary pur^e 
seldom boasts more than the traditional crouton as 
an accompaniment. The exception to this rule in 
England is pea soup, which is sent to table with 
dry powdered mint as well as the dice of fried 
bread, which are the English cook's only idea of 
croutons. A cremey moreover, usually has delicate 
stock, such as white, poultry, or, in some instances, 
game stock as a foundation; whereas for purees, 
ordinary stock, the liquor in which meat or vege- 
tables were boiled, vegetable stock, milk, or even 
water may be perfectly well used, hence their economy. 

The best way perhaps to explain the process of 
pur^e making will be to give a typical specimen of 
each kind. For instance, take potagejpuree a la reine. 
Pick all the white flesh from the remains of a couple 
of roast or boiled fowls (properly speaking the fowls 
should have been roasted for the pur^osa^ ^jcA. V^r^ 
used at once whilst hot, Wt ^i^l\^ Sa A ^Nst'sfc t^jS^n^* 



34 SOUPS. 

a counsel of perfection) ; carefully removing any skin, 
sinew, &c. ; mince this white flesh pretty finely, then 
put it into a pan with a little stock, and seasoning to 
taste, and stir it over the fire till softened, when you 
turn it out and pound it to a smooth paste ; mean- 
while, put half the amount of crumb of bread that 
you have of chicken into a basin, and pour on to it 
sufficient boiling chicken stock to cover it, put a 
plate over it, and leave it till the bread has soaked 
up as much of the stock as it can; then mix it 
gradually, little by little, to the pounded chicken, 
working it all together to a smooth paste, and 
seasoning it to taste with white pepper, salt, and if 
liked a dash of nutmeg. (Be careful in the mattej* 
of spice, for a strong flavour of any one thing 
is always to be deprecated in delicate cookery; 
moreover, spice such as nutmeg, and still more, 
mace, is often most disagreeable to some persons, 
and therefore should only be allowed a very subor- 
dinate position in the seasoning at any time, and 
should never be pat in, without first consulting the 
tastes of the consumer). Now rub this purde very 
carefully through a hair sieve, return it to the 
fire in a delicately clean saucepan, and stir 
into it quickly and steadily sufficient chicken 
stock, or cream, or half and half, to bring it to 
the right thickness ; stir into it at the last a liaison 
of either 2oz. or 3oz. of fresh butter (working this 
in, in pieces, adding the last one or two after you 
have removed the pan from the fire), or of one or 
more egg yolks beaten up in about a gill of single 
cre&m or new milk^ and serve. 



PUREES. 



35 



This soup can be made equally well with rabbits, 
and a puree of the same kind is made abroad with 
the flesh of all kinds of game, the bread-crumb in 
these latter cases being sometimes replaced by cooked 
rice, sago, a thick piir^e of lentils, and in some cases 
baked and mashed potato, the diluting liquid natur- 




ally varying to suit the meat used. For those who 
have never tasted a purfe of grouse thickened with 
bread soaked in strong game stock, or one of 
partridges thickened with a rather stiff mushroom or 
chestnut purfe (this must be plain chestnut purde), 
there is an experience to which to look for^^x^. 

As there is a right ana. ^wroxi^ -^^^ ^*l ^^v^% -sassf^ 



J6 SOUPS. 

things, so there is of sievrng the Bubatance used for 
a purfe. Take a fair-eized basin, and set a hair 
sieve of proportionate size in it, wrong side np, the 
lower rim resting firmlj inside the badn, as in the 
illustration (Fig, 5.), using for meat a wooden pestle, 
or a wooden spoon, as may be most convenient. The 
lasin being firmlj stood on the table makes the 
process far more satiafactory than when the sieve is 
slanted over a much smaller basin on the cook's lap 




Kf. 6. 

as is only too oft«n done. Of conrae, where two 
pairs of hands are available, especially in the case 
of the eremea referred to above, it is better to use a 
tammy cloth, and wring or press the soup through 
this. (Fig. 6.) For household use, however, the 
French tamu-prettoir — a fine wire sieve, with a kind 
of rotatory dasher fixed in it — is most useful, though 
naturally tt does not bring the purfe to such an 
absolut^y velvety condition aa the t«mmy, or the 
Atur aiert. 



PUREES. 87 

The bisque, or fisb pur^e, is made in much the 
same way, using, when the sheMsh is expensive, 
either bread crumb, rice, or a thick pur^e of fish 
(that from which the fish stock is made), to add 
to its Yoliime and consistency, always diluting 
it with fish stock, and using &esh butter for the 
liaison in the case of a white bisque, or lobster, cray- 
fish, prawn, anchovy, or coralline-pepper butter in the 
case of red fish. A few drops of Burgess's essence of 
anchovy should always be added in these cases to the 
stock in which the breadcrumb, 4&c., is soaked. 

Lastly, the vegetable purees. For these a typical 
one for homely use is dried pea soup. Well wash 
the peas, to remove all dust. (Eemember that peas, 
like lentils, beans, <&c., should always be of the 
season in which they are used, for if they have been 
stored for over a year they are harder and propor- 
tionately more tasteless, even when they are not 
actually musty.) Now place the peas in a pan, with 
three pints of water, 3oz. or 4oz. of whole onions, 
2oz. of celery (or celery seed tied up in a piece of 
muslin), three to four ounces of carrots, a bunch of 
herbs (parsley, thyme, <&c.) and an ounce or so of 
salt (be careful not to overdo this.) Bring this all 
to the boil, then draw the pan to the side and 
let it all simmer steadily, till on pressing the i>eas 
between your fingers ttiey will crush easily. To 
make them cook more quickly and tenderly, add iA 
this stock during the cooking — ^from half hour to 
half hour — ^half a giU of cold water, never usmg in 
any case more than half pint of cold water in this 
way. (This replaces the ten to t^^Vi^ Vwix?^ ^^"^icisis^ 



38 SOUPS. 

formerly considered necessary for dried vegetables.) 
Let the stock just boil np again each time after 
adding the cold water, and as soon as the peas are 
nicely cooked drain them off, putting aside the 
liquor in which they cooked; now rub the peas 
through a wire sieve (or the tamis-pressoir mentioned 
above), moistening them with about a third of the 
liquor as you sieve them, then return this pur^ to 
the pan, with the rest of the liquor ; allow it just to 
boil up, when you draw the pan to the side of the 
stove and let it stand for half an hour, stirring it 
now and again with a wooden spoon lest it should 
catch; you can then add the liaison in two ways. 
The French method is to slice down diagonally one 
or two ounces of breadcrumb, place this in the 
tureen with three or four ounces of butter, and pour 
the nearly boiling soup upon it, stirring the latter 
well to melt the butter; or you can rub up one 
ounce of cornflour, or ordinary flour, with about 
half a gill of cold milk, till perfectly smooth, then 
add this to about one and a half gills of boiling 
milk, stirring it altogether over the fire till it becomes 
a very smooth cream, and pour this, boiling, very 
gradually to the hot soup, stirring the two together 
very carefully till perfectly blended; then allow 
them to boil together for five to ten minutes, season- 
ing to taste with pepper, and salt if necessary, and 
serve. If, however, you use the latter method of 
thickening your pea soup, you must in the first place 
lightly fry the herbs in about one or two ounces of 
well darned dripping or butter, before putting in 
the peas, aJlowing them to colour, or not, according 



PUREES. 89 

to whether yon are using dried or green peas, lentils, 
or haricot beans, &c. All kinds of dried pulse may 
be made into sonp in this way, but the cook must 
bear in mind that if these homely pur^s are to be 
acceptable, she must be careful to keep the colour 
good in any case ; thus if dried green peas are used, 
a little spinach or vegetable green should be added 
to bring up the tint, and the vegetables, &c. must 
not colour when fried in the first instance ; if white 
haricot beans are used, the French method of 
thickening should be preferred, and a little milk 
should be added to the water of which the soup is 
made. (It may be remarked in passing, that in Eng- 
land we make far too little use of lentils, which are 
in truth most nutritious. Few people seem to be aware 
that the expensive and popular BevaJenta Arabica is 
almost, if not entirely, composed of purified and 
skiimed lentils reduced to a fine flour.) Of course, if 
a richer soup is required than is given above, second, 
bone, or vegetable stock can be used, or the water in 
which salt beef, bacon, or a ham has been cooked 
may be thus utilised ; but in this last case be very 
careful as to the salt, for the boilings of salt meat are 
apt to be so strongly salted as to render further salt 
unnecessary, if not actually a cause of failure. 

Another form of vegetable purde is made with 
root vegetables, such as potatoes, carrots, turnips, 
Jerusalem artichokes, &c., and is generally made 
somewhat in this way : melt one ounce of well 
clarified dripping or butter in a pan, and cook in it 
till tender, but without colouring, four ounces of 
onions, two to four ounces oi o^^er^ Vjf^c^^ ^^b^^^s^s^ ^s^ 



40 SOUPS. 

liow strong you wish the ta.ste of the celery to be)^ 
and a bunch of herbs ; then in about five minutes or 
so lay in a pound of potatoes, peeled and cut up, 
cover down the pan and let it continue to cook 
gently for twelve or fifteen minutes longer, shaking 
the pan now and again to prevent the contents 
burning, and add a quart of liquid with a few 
peppercorns, and seasoning. Let it now all cook 
gently till tender (about one and a-half hours), then 
rub it through the sieve, re-heat, add a liaison of 
flour and milk, and serve. With regard to the use 
of butter or fat in these soups it will be found 
to give a richer flavour, if less butter is used at first, 
or indeed if none at all be employed, the quantity so 
used ordinarily being stirred in at the very last. It 
is to this practice that French pur^s owe the 
creamy rich taste which usually distinguishes them 
from tiie more rough-and-ready English thick soups. 
It does not entail more expense, and very little if 
any more trouble, whilst the gain in flavour is 
unmistakable. This hint is derived from M. Gouffd, 
who, eminent chef as he was, did not think ordinary 
plain cooking beneath his notice, but applied to it 
the care and attention considered by the ignorant as 
only necessary for what they term **high class 
cookery." It may be safely asserted that it is to the 
absurd and arbitrary division of cookery into so-called 
*' plain" and *' high class " that we owe the slovenli- 
ness and unpalatableness of our British cuisine. 

For cranes, perhaps, creme de cSlM will be as 
typical as any. For this take four or five good 
heads o£ celery, and cook them with a mediim)- 



PUREES. 41 

sized onion in about one or two pints of either white 
stock, water, or half water and half milk, and when 
tender rub it all through a sieve ; add sufficient of 
the liquor in which it was cooked to bring it to the 
right consistency, season to taste, and bring it just 
to, but not beyond the boil, then lift it off the fire, 
and stir in the yolks of one or two eggs, beaten up with 
from half to one gill of cream, and serre. In this 
way artichoke bottoms, asparagus, celeriac, cucumber, 
saLsify, seakale, &c., can all be cooked, adding a 
litde more seasoning and spice according to the 
taste of the consumer, but always remembering that 
a vegetable creme must, however rich its texture, 
taste chiefly and predominantly of the vegetable 
from which it takes its name, even when game or 
poultry stock is used in its composition. 

The above directions will serve, if carefully 
followed, to help any young cook, but for her con- 
venience we may sum up the hints thus : — 

In cooking the vegetables, cook them thoroughly, 
and if fried in the first place, be careful to let them 
stand for a minute or two before sieving, to throw 
up the fat used for this purpose, which should be 
carefully skimmed off, or the soup will be greasy. 
It is for this reason I prefer the French method, by 
which the butter is only added as a liaison at the 
last, for this imparts a creamy taste, but if properly 
mixed in, never gives a greasy flavour. If the 
vegetables, &c, are fried at the beginning, as they 
naturally must be for dark soups, fry them quickly 
with the cover off, stirring all the time to prevent 
their catching, and where a very rich browiL <snkWa. 



42 SOUPS. 

is desired, a pinch of moist sugar may be added ; 
but if simply frying to bring out the flavour of the 
ingredients (which many persons think is not suffi- 
ciently done by plain boiling), fry with the cover on, 
only shaking the pan now and again to prevent its 
contents sticking ; and lastly, be particular with the 
liaisons. If these are made of milk and flour, rub 
the flour very carefully and smoothly with a quarter 
part of the liquid destined to form the liaison, whilst 
the latter is cold, then add this mixture to the 
remaining three-quarters of the liquid which must 
be boiling, and let it all cook together for five minutes 
or so, to thoroughly cook the flour, before adding it 
to the soup ; then let it all heat together gently till 
just on, but not over boiling point. If an egg 
liaison is to be used, the yolks must be carefully 
mixed first with a little cold stock, and then added 
gradually to the soup, which, if hot, should be first 
lifted off the fire, and allowed to cool for two or 
three minutes ; for wore the eggs added to the soup 
when boiling, they would inevitably curdle and spoil 
the whole. For white soups the first cold stock is 

often replaced by milk, or for the delicate soups 
known as cremes, by cream. For these latter, in 
France especially, a butter and cream liaison is used, 
in which the butter is added with two or three 
spoonfuls of cream according to the quantity of soup. 
When a plain butter liaison is used, the butter should 
be added only at the last moment, as the soup is being 
lifted off the fire, as in this way, never having been 
cooked, it gives a peculiar fresh creamy taste, never 
taJned when the butter has been, heated. 



CHAPTEE IV. 

PUREES (Continued). 

The following recipes of various kinds of purees may 
serve as bints to the cook, and enable her to extend 
her list of such things almost indefinitely. 

Puree of Asparagus, — Take a fair-sized bundle of 
green asparagus, and remove the heads and also the 
hard parts. Blanch the rest of the asparagus, then 
drain it well and put it in a stewpan, with 2oz. of 
butter and l|oz. of flour, and stir it altogether over 
the fire with a clean wooden spoon for five minutes. 
Now moisten it with a full quart of ordinary white 
stock (that made from veal bones, or even mutton 
shank, will do), and after just bringing it to the 
boil, let it simmer gently at the side of the stove till 
the asparagus is tender enough to rub through a 
sieve, after which you replace it on the stove for 
fifteen to twenty minutes; now stir it well, add 
about half a pint of good white stock, and just allow 
it to boil up ; pour it into the scalded-out tui'een, 
and just as it goes to table stir in half a giU of 
cream and 2oz. of butter, together with the heads of 
the asparagus, which should have been sinunered in 
salted water for fifteen minutes. 

A richer form oi ttna ^o\r^, ^casswa. ^a ^-^wtW^ 



U SOUPS. 

d'aspergea a la comtesae, is made very much in the 
same way, save that when first simmered in the 
butter, four tablespoonfuls of chicken glaze are 
mixed with them, and a few minutes later about 
three-quarters of a gill of sauce aupreme (a rich 
white sauce made with chicken stock) is added ; it 
is allowed to reduce a third by rapid boiling, is then 
moistened with sufficient strong chicken stock, 
sieved, and lastly thickened with a liaison of two or 
more egg yolks beaten up with three or four spoon- 
fuls of double cream and an ounce or more of 
butter. It is then served with the asparagus heads, 
and any dainty garnish to taste. Both of these 
soups should be of a faint delicate green, and if the 
asparagus in itself is not sufficient to impart this, a 
few drops of spinach or other vegetable greening 
must be added, but in any case it must not be over- 
coloured ! 

Biaqtte of Crayfish. — Take sixty fine crayfish, 
freshly cooked, and remove all the flesh from the 
shells, keeping the best coloured of the latter to 
make into red butter. Take about half, or a little 
more, of the bodies or tails of the crayfish, and mince 
these with the flesh of the claws and a few of the 
shells, then pound these carefully and work them 
up to a smooth paste with a little good fish stock ; 
add this paste, with a bouquet of herbs, to sufficient 
stock to moisten it all well, let it boil up, and then 
simmer steadily for twenty-five to thirty minutes, 
after which sieve it, and re-heat it, worldng into it 
Sag. or 6oz. ot crayfish butter as you do so. Put the 

of the tadla into tlio tureen, ]^\a \^<b uoivi^ xs^n 



PUREES. 45 

them, and serve with croutons slighUj sprinkled with 
coralline pepper handed with it. (A strip of lemon 
peel should be added to the bunch of herbs used for 
this soup.) A few spoonfuls of cooked rice or pearl 
barley can also be used as a garnish, or indeed pounded 
with the flesh of the fish as described before. A 
little (but very little) cayenne is an addition to this. 

Bisque of Lobster a la Castellane, — For this take 
the flesh of two smaU lobsters (the coarser crawfish 
does excellently for this soup), cut up this flesh, and 
toss it over the fire with about a gill of bechamel 
sauce, and let it cook till the sauce is half absorbed ; 
then add to it a small sherry-glassful of madeira 
(sherry or marsala), and finally bring it to the 
desired consistency with a brown fish stock (pre- 
viously thickened with a little brown roux till of 
the consistency of very thin cream), and sieve 
it. Be-heat, finish with 3oz. or 4oz. of lobster butter, 
a dash of cayenne, and the strained juice of a lemon. 
Put into the tureen some tiny pea-shaped fish 
quenelles, and a handful of nicely cooked rice, pour 
the soup on this and serve. For lobster butter, take 
the cooked coral of the lobster, or failing this the 
reddest parts of the shell, and pound it to a perfectly 
smooth paste with 4oz. of butter, finally wringing it 
through a tammy, and then mixing it with as much 
niore butter as may be necessary. If the coral is 
uncooked, put the coral-butter into a little pan and 
let it heat for an hour in the bain-marie, then wring 
it through the tammy into a basin of cold water, and 
when solid, skim it off, wipe it witk «. <iL<K»s^ ^3^s:8^^ 
and add it as before to t\ie 9l^««^ ^xsvqvxxs^. ^\.\s'Q^^Jst 



46 SOUPS. 

Bisque of Oysters. — Beard the required number of 
oysters, saving the liquor; put the beards of the 
oysters into a quart or more of cold fish stock, 
according to the amount required, and let this boil 
up gradually to extract as mucb as possible of the 
oyster flavour, then strain it on to a white roux (made 
by melting 2oz. ot butter, and working it to a smooth 
paste with 2|oz. of flour), add the oyster liquor, 
with a squeeze of lemon juice, and a tiny pinch of 
coralline pepper, let it all just boil up, then add the 
oysters, and serve with a pluche. If wished richer, 
a liaison of two egg yolks and three or four spoon- 
fuls of cream may be stirred into the soup at the 
last, just before adding the oysters. 

PurSe de Celeri a VEsjpagnole, — Just blanch five 
or six heads of celery if young, otherwise let them 
cook for a few minutes to soften them somewhat, 
then drain them and put them on with a little brown 
stock, and a tiny pinch of sugar, and let them cook 
tiU thoroughly tender, when they must be rubbed 
through, a sieve, and mixed with a fuU gill of rich 
espagnole sauce; now add enough good stock to 
bring it all to the desired consistency, and again 
sieve it. Be-heat when wanted for table, with a 
^Ib. of butter^ a piece of chicken glaze, and a 
tiny grate of nutmeg, and serve plain or with any 
garnish to taste. If desired, this soup can be made 
with milk, or cream, and white stock, and called a 
cr^me. 

Chestnut PurSe, — Shell and blancb sixty large 

chestnuts, and remove the inner skin, then simmer 

^em rerjr gently till quite soft, in iii full c^uaxt of good 



PURINES. 47 

stock; sieve them, and add enough stock to bring 
them to the desired consistency, let it all boil up, 
and then simmer for a little at the side of the stove, 
carefully skimming o£E the fat, and serve, with 
croutons of fried bread. A little fresh butter, or 
thick cream added at the last, is a great addition to 
this soup, which, for English tastes, requires a little 
more seasoning. 

Puree Glavel, — ^Make a pur^e with the flesh of 
some roast partridges, as described in aoMjpe a la 
reine, and mix it with half a pound of good sago, 
cooked till tender in a quart of strong game stock ; 
rub it all through the sieve, adding more game 
stock, if necessary, to bring it to the desired 
quantity, finish off with a little fresh butter or 
cream, and serve with delicately fried croutons. 
This is a delidotis way of using up old game birds, 
or the foreign or Eussian game. 

FurSe Condi, — Put into a pan a pound of red 
haricot beans, with two large, or three medium-sized 
onions, and two quarts of salted cold water ; bring it 
all to the boil, and let it simmer till the beans are 
qxiite soft ; sieve the soup, and pour it on to two 
glasses of claret, allow it to simmer gently together 
for twelve to fifteen minutes, then finish off with two 
or three ounces of butter, and serve with fried 
cradtons. The same puree can be made with white 
haricot beans, or flageolets ; using, however, in the 
first case, milk instead of water, if wished (the 
water in which haricot beans are boiled must be 
saved, as it makes a first-rate foundation for many 
vegetable soups), or with ordiiiAX^ ^\^)^ ^i^»K ^^ 



48 SOUPS. 

the flageolets; finislimg off the haricots with a cream 
and egg-yolk liaison, and the flageolets with cream 
and batter, and a few drops of pale green colouring. 

Furie Conti, — Well wash a pound of lentils, the 
kind called in France lenUUea a la reine, and put 
them in a pan with two quarts of water, a bouquet, 
an onion stuck with two doves, a carrot, and a stalk 
or two of celery; let these all cook till tender 
enough to sieve, moistening it with its own liquor, 
and then^ after adding enough good game stock 
(made from the bones and carcases of cooked game), 
sieve it and return it to the fire with a little more 
stock, if necessary, stirring it well now and again 
to prevent its catching, and let it simmer at the side 
of the stove for an hour, in a three-parts covered 
pan ; have ready some celery nicely, but not mashily 
cooked, stewed in stock, and place this, cut up into 
neat pieces, into the tureen, pour the soup over, and 
serve. 

Creme a Voseille, — Pick over and remove the 
stalks from some good sorrel, well washing it in 
plenty of cold water, then take two or three 
large handf uls, tear these up, and place them in a 
pan with three ounces of butter; when these are 
melted and the sorrel is thoroughly cooked, sprinkle 
in a teaspoonful of potato or corn flour, and 
stir it altogether for two or three minutes; now 
add one and a-half pints of common white 
stock or water, as you choose, with salt and 
pepper to taste, and let it all boil together for 
fifteen minutes. Beat up the yolks of two or 
three eggs in a gill of single CTeaxDi) inix them with 



FtmEES. 4B 

a cupful of the soup, previously allowed to cool for 
a minute or two, have ready sofhe breadcrumb sliced 
across diagomdly, pour the eggs, &c., on to this, then 
skim the soup, and lastly pour it all on to the rest 
in the tureen. 

Creme Greci a VAllemande. — Choose fine red 
carrots, and slice o£E the red part of seven or eight 
large ones ; melt a good piece of butter, lay in the 
sliced carrots, salt them slightly, cover the pan and 
let them cook gently, stirring them now and again, 
over a gentle fire. When they are dry, add to them 
about a gill of good bechamel sauce, and let it all 
reduce for a few minutes. Then sieve it, bringing it 
to the desired consistency with two parts good strong 
consomm^ to one part cream, finish off with a butter 
liaison and serve with fried croHtons, 

Ordinary Orecy soup can be made in precisely the 
same way, only using dripping instead of butter, and 
common stock or water, and no cream, to dilute it ; 
three pints of water to ten very red carrots will be 
found about the best proportion, and at the last an 
Qg^ yolk beaten up with a little single cream or new 
milk, or a gill of milk mixed as above described 
with a spoonful of flour, should be used as a liaison. 
Unless this liaison is added, the soup will granulate 
and become (in appearance at least), dirty water 
clouded with tiny atoms of carrots, instead of the 
rich smooth pur^e it should be. It will also separate 
in this way if the sieve through which it was passed 
was too coarse^ or the supply of carrots too limited. 
In early spnng and summer, say from tlm ^^c^^ ^ 
March to the 0nd oi T&scj, ^vtcqVa ^'^i ^sR^'eRRso!^"^^ 



c60 SOUPS. 

condition for this soup, and then require to have a 
turnip, an onion, and a blade of oeleiy added to 

, them to give them flavour ; more carrots must also be 
used, as they are losing their colour, and unless the 
rule is strictly adhered to of only using the red part of 
the carrot, the colour of the soup will inevitably 
sufEer. 

Creme de Navets. — Mince down and blanch in 
boiling salted water, seven or eight good turnips, 
for a few minutes, then drain them and put them 
on with a piece of butter and a pinch each of salt 
and sugar, and let them cook slowly over a gentle fire 
\lU they, are dry. Now moisten them with a little 
stock, and again let them cook very slowly till they 
have alpiost absorbed the stock but are still quite 
white, for it is important to preserve their colour. 
When they are perfectly cooked, add a gill of good 
b^hamel sauce, let it all boil up sharply till reduced 
to a thick pur^e, then sieve, dilute with the requisite 
stock, re-heat, finish ofE with a butter liaison and 
serve. A very nice soup can be made by cooking 
the turnips first in a little well clarified beef dripping, 
thei)i gkkzing and reducing them with some good 
common stock, sieving the result, diluting it with 
more stock, and finishing it off with a flour and milk 
liaison. Servo in either case with croutons. 

Or erne d'Orge — Put into a pan some good white 
stock freed from fat (for company rich chicken stock 
should be used, but ordinary uncolouied stock 
answers excellently for household purposes), and 
bring it sharply to th^ boiL Now throw in three- 

quurtera of a pound of pearl barley (lot two or three 



•r 



PUREES. 51 

quarts of stock), and let it cook (after bringing it to 
the boil) very gently at the side of the fire for four 
honrs at least ; then rub it through a sieye, adding 
more stock if necessary, return it to the fire, bring 
it to the boil, and finish off with a liaison of egg 
yolks and cream, or butter. 

Creme Parmentier.—'BakG six or eight good floury 
potatoes, and when cooked crush them up with a 
good piece of butter, using a very clean wooden 
spoon for the purpose ) then rub this puree through 
a hair sieve (for ordinary use a wire sieve is suffi- 
cient), moistening it gradually with sufficient white 
(or at all events colourless) stock to bring it to the 
desired consistency, re-heat, and finish off with a 
liaison of either two egg yolks beaten up with three 
or four spoonfuls of cream, or a little cream and 
fresh butter stirred in just at the last as you are 
about to dish it. This can be served with any kind 
of garnish preferred. A very delicate form of this 
soup is made thus : Mix three pints of cold white 
stock with half a pound of potato flour, or fecula, 
being careful to get it perfectly smooth, then set it 
on the stove and stir it steadily and gently till it is 
just on the point of boiling (adding another half 
pint of stock if it seems likely to thicken too much), 
and as soon as it just reaches boiling point, draw it 
to the side, and keep it simmering gently but 
steadily for an hour. Now run it all through a 
strainer or sieve, stir in a liaison of egg yolk and 
cream as before, adding just at the last half an 
ounce of fresh butter, and pour it on to some ^^<5.- 
riously boiled asparaigu& -^omXA^ ot %wsia ^'ssosi^ 



62 SOtTPS. 

carrots and turnips stewed in butter and cut into 
little shapes, or tiny corks. 

Creme au Biz, — ^Put into a pan (preferably a fire- 
proof earthenware one) rather over two quarts of 
rich white stock well freed from fat, and into this 
put half a pound of good rice when it is just boiling 
up ; again bring it to the boil (for the rice will cool 
it), draw it to the side of the stove, and let it 
simmer steadily for an hour. Now rub it all 
through a sieve, diluting it if necessary with a little 
more stock, re-heat, add an egg yolk and cream 
liaison with a little butter, and if necessary a little 
salt and white pepper, and lastly half an ounce of 
butter, and serve with croutons or garnish to taste. 
This may be either a very economical «oup, or an 
expensive one, just as you choose to make it; it 
will be excellent in either case. A very favourite 
way of flavouring, or "perfuming," this soup, 
according to French cooks, is to pound up the flesh 
picked from the carcase of one or more roast 
pheasants, and put this into the pot with the rice, 
&c., allowing it all to boil together for fifteen or 
twenty minutes, then rub it through once or twice, 
as may be necessary to get it smooth and creamy, 
and dilute with some strongly-flavoured stock made 
from the pheasant bones and carcases. Serve with 
a delicate Eachel or TolMe garnish. It must be re- 
membered that for delicate purees of this kind these 
garnishes are as appropriate as for consommds. 

Puree Duharry, — Take two or three good cauli- 

flowers and break these up into little bunches, 

carefalfy trimming the stalks ; blanch them, And lay 



PUREES. 53 

fchem in a pan with about one and a-lialf gills of 
good becliamel, which should be just at boiling point 
when they are laid in ; then boil up again and draw to 
the side of the stove andaUow it all to simmer together 
steadily for twenty minutes or so, until the cauliflower 
is perfectly tender. Now crush it all through a sieve, 
moistening it as you do so with more or less rich 
stock, season to taste with white pepper, salt, a dash 
of sugar, and add a liaison of egg yolks and cream* 
not forgetting the little piece of butter at the last. 

Puree Fauhonne, — Prepare a purfe as for the 
pur^e Conti, and add to it a pint of julienne (given 
later amongst the broths), and serve with croviona. 
This soup can be made with almost any vegetable 
pur^e as a f oimdation, but it must have the reduced 
julienne garnish, which in France is always, when 
possible, made with the water in which beans or lentils, 
&c., have been cooked. Beally consomm^ julienne 
was originally made by adding a certain proportion 
of the thick potage julienne to the clear stock. 

Puree Grenade, — Shred ten to twelve very fine 
white leeks, and stew them in butter till thoroughly 
tender, seasoning with a little salt and white pepper, 
and a dust of white sugar ; then add to them about a 
gill of velout^ sauce, and let it all boil up sharply 
for a few minutes to reduce it; dilute it with 
sufficient white (preferably chicken) stock, rubbing 
it all through a sieve, and finish with a small piece 
of chicken glaze and a dust of sugar. This soup is 
very good if made with skim milk, or ordinary 
second (colourless) stock, and finished ofE mth. 
egg and milk liaison. 



M SOUPS. 

PurSe de Lievre. — Skin and empty a good-sized 
hare, putting aside the blood. Cut up the hare 
in small pieces of the same size, and toss these in 
butter for a few minutes with some parsley and 
some sliced onion, seasoning it all well with salt and 
pepper. When the hare is partly cooked and 
slightly browned, make a thickening with about four 
ounces of fine sifted and browned flour, mixed with 
a bottle of light claret and a quart of good, rather 
highly flavoured, stock, and let the hare cook in this 
till thoroughly done. Now remove the best pieces, 
drain (them well from the soup, carefully remove 
any bits of broken bone, &c., and keep the pieces 
hot. Meanwhile return the rest of the hare to the 
pan, and leave this at the side of the stove to 
simmer, and throw up the fat, which must be care** 
fully skimmed ofE; now take a cup of the soup 
(after having strained the whole through a very 
clean wire sieve), and beat the blood of the hare 
which you have saved, with this cupful; then stir 
it gradually and smoothly into the rest of the soup, 
bringing it just to, but not beyond, boiling point. 
If the soup boils in the very slightest degree, the 
blood will curdle it and spoil the whole. Eetum the 
hare meat to the soup, and pour it all into a well 
scalded tureen. Some cooks add tiny balls of veal 
stuffing fried and well-drained, to this soup. 

Puree Mathilde, — ^Peel and seed four or five young 
and tender cucumbers, blanch, drain, and toss them 
in butter till tender and dry, then add to them a gill 
of bechamel and a small piece of chicken glaze, and 
let it all reduce sharply for a few minutes; now 



PUREES. 55 

tammy, diluting it as you do so witli tlie requisite 
amount of white stock, stir in a drop or two of 
vegetable colouring to bring it to a delicate green, 
adding in a dasb of sugar, a grate of nutmeg, 
a spoonful or two of cream, and just at the last an 
ounce or so of butter, and pour into the tureen on 
to any garnish to taste. 

Furee Palestine. — Take fifteen or twenty medium- 
sized Jerusalem artichokes, peel them and toss them in 
a little butter for a few minutes, adding a seasoning of 
white pepper, salt, and a very little sugar, till 
nearly cooked ; add to them a little stock, and let 
them finish cooking till perfectly tender, when you 
crush them through the sieve, moistening them as 
you do so with either white stock, milk, or water 
according to the richness of the soup you wish for. 
When wanted for use, reheat, adding seasoliing and 
a little cream, milk, or fresh butter as you please, and 
serve with croutons. The ordinary way of making 
this soup is to cook the artichokes in either milk, or 
milk and stock (in the former case add a blade or 
two of celery and an onion to the artichokes), till 
tender enough to crush through a sieve, reducing this 
pur^e by rapid boiling if too thin, or adding a little 
more milk or cream to thin it. When milk only is used, 
a slice or two of smoked ham, or two or three bacon 
rinds are an improvement. Serve with croutons. 

Puree Parmentier aux Tomates. — Cut up four or 
five medium-sized and very mealy potatoes with the 
red part of two small carrots, lib. of ripe well- 
coloured tomatoes, and a small head of celery. Put 
into a pan 2oz. of butter (or well-clarified beef- 



56 SOUPS. 

dripping will do), and as soon as this is melted put 
in the tomatoes and a middle-sized onion rather 
finely minced, and let all this cook in the covered 
pan for twelve or fifteen minutes ; after which poxir 
in three pints of second stock (or even water), 
together with the potatoes, celery, <&c., and seasoning 
to taste, and let it all cook gently till all the 
vegetables are in a pulp, when you rub it through a 
sieve, reheat, add a spoonful or so of cream, and 
serve with croutons fried in butter. 

Puree de Pois Verts. — Cook three pints of green 
peas in plenty of water, as quickly as possible to 
preserve the colour, season it, add a carrot and a 
medium-sized onion, and let it all stew together till 
tender, then lift out the carrot, drain off the water, 
and rub all the rest through the sieve; put this 
pur^e into a pan with a dust of sugar and a full 
quart, or rather more, of white stock, or the water in 
which the peas were boiled ; bring it all to the boil^ 
stirring it carefully to prevent its catching, and the 
moment it begins to boil up draw it to the side of 
the stove, and allow it to simmer for a little. Have 
ready 4oz. of rice, previously boiled in white stock, 
drain it well and put it into the tureen with the hot 
pur^e, add an ounce of butter, and stir this well in 
till all melted, when it must be served at once. If 
the colour is too pale add a little spinach or vege- 
table greening, but add this very carefully, for if the 
least overdone it will destroy all the distinction of 
the soup. In the spring, when peas are dear, the 
young peashells may be used to produce the stock, 
the peas themselves, after cooking, being lifted out, 



PURINES. 57 

the soup finished off as before, and the peas added 
with the rice as a garnish. 

"Puree de Pais a VAllemande. — Stir together over 
the fire till perfectly smooth 8oz. of fine sifted flour 
and a pint and a half of white stock, and when well 
blended and the flour perfectly cooked (this will take 
twelve or fifteen minutes), pour it through a fine 
strainer into three pints of boiling white stock, 
stirring it all the time with a wooden spoon lest it 
should be lumpy ; now add one sixth of an ounce 
each of salt and caster sugar, together with one 
quart of freshly shelled green peas, and let these all 
simmer in the soup, stirring it all the time, till the 
peas are quite cooked, when you skim it well, pour 
it into the well-scalded tureen, add an oimce of fresh 
butter, and serve as soon as this is perfectly melted. 

Another peasoup is given amongst the broths, 
which is there given as served untammied, but if it 
is all crushed through a sieve, a few peas being kept 
back to garnish it, it makes a most delicate pur^e, 
even nicer than the two preceding ones. 

Puree Heine Caroline. — ^Mix five or six tablespoon- 
fuls of rice flour or crenie de riz with a little cold 
stock to a smooth paste, then put it on the fire and 
let it cook, adding gradually sufficient stock to bring 
it to the consistency of a smooth bechamel sauce, 
and let it boil up well ; now mix this with an equal 
amount of minced and pounded chicken, prepared as 
in pur^e a la Eeine Margot, and finish off precisely like 
that pur^, only at the last, when finishiag it up, add 
4iOz. or 5oz. of very red crayfish butter, a gmin of 
coralline pepper, and a spoonful or two of cream. 



68 SOUPS. 

Furie Beine Margot. — ^Bake or roast five or six 
large and very mealj potatoes, and when cooked 
turn out all the potato from the baked skinB» work 
it up whilst hot with a little butter, and crush it all 
through a sieve. Have ready the flesh of a roasted 
fowl (or a rabbit), minced and pounded with a little 
stock and butter, and blend this all with the mashed 
potato, dilute it with stock made from poultry bones, 
<&c., rub it aU through the sieve, and re-heat, stirring 
it all the time ; add a spoonful or two of cream, with 
seasoning if necessary, and serve at once. 

PurSe Souhise. — ^Peel three large onions and cut 
them up pretty small ; melt over a gentle fire two 
ounces of fresh butter, and lay in the onions, 
cover down the pan, and let them cook for an hour 
(the steam preventing their frying), but be careful 
they do not colour in the least. Now pour to them 
one and a-half pints of white stock and milk, or milk 
and water, very gradually, season to taste, add some 
slices of white breadcrumb, cut diagonally, re-cover 
the pan and set it all to cook again for an hour at 
least, being careful that it never hoils the whole time, 
but just keeps at a gentle simmer ; then crush it all 
through a sieve, allowing it to boil up again if too 
thin, or adding a little more boiling milk or stock if 
too thick; add a spoonful or two of cream, and 
serve. A spoonful of grated gruyire cheese stirred 
into this soup just at the last, very gradually, stirring 
all the time, is a great addition, and so is a dash of 
coralline pepper. 

A very economical but most excellent version of 
tiMs soup can b^ made by using thi^ ^^r^ter in which 



POB&BS. 59 



beaoBy or a cauliflower, liare been boiled (mind tiiere 
was no foda with it), inatead of mUk or stock, pro- 
ceeding exaetty as abore, and finishing off with 
a littte new milk at the last, if the soap is white, or 
nsing a little brown stock and a little butter, if the 
omons haye been allowed to brown in the first 
instance. For this second sonp well clarified dripping 
can be nsed instead of batter. The British cook 
cannot be too often reminded that in France the^ 
water in which haricot beans, caahfiower, Fr^ich 
beans, Ac., haye been boiled is always considered a 
famous groundwork for yegetable soups. 

Fwrie Tomates. — BemoTC the stalks from a pound 
of well washed and dried tomatoes, and cut them 
into quarters; then fry two ounces of minced onion 
and a small bouquet, in one ounce of butter till it 
begins to torn yellow, when you lay the tomatoes in 
with them and let them all stew yeiy gentty in a 
eoYered pan tiU tender ; now fiy half an ounce of 
flour in half an ounce of butter, or well darified 
dripping, till it is perfectly smooth, when you dilute 
it with a litde stock, next work in a little of the 
tomato pur&, and repeat these two till yon haye 
used up all the tomato, and about one and a-half 
pints of plain white stock ; then let it come to the 
boil once more to thicken properly, skim, and pour it 
throogh a scalded strainer into the tureen, and 
serye with fried croutons. 

Purie TomaUt aux Navds. — Cut up four or fire 
medium-sized turnips, one small potato, and three 
or four ripe and yery red tomatoes. Fry a minced 
onion in a pan wilh two and a-half ounces of well 



60 SOUPS. 

clarified dripping, or bntter, for ten or twelve 
minutes ; now poxir to it about a quart of water or 
stock (according to what you have), add pepper and 
salt, a small bouquet, and the rest of the vegetables, 
and let them all cook together till tender enough to 
rub through a sieve, when you return it to the pan 
with about half an oimce of fresh butter ; just let it 
not quite boil up, and serve very hot. This soup, if 
properly made, is an extremely pretty red colour, and 
should be quite velvety. 

Puree Velours, — Cut the red part from some good 
carrots till you have eight ounces of it (the yellow 
part does quite as well for the stock pot), and put 
these into a pan with an ounce of butter, two oimces 
of the white part of some leeks, and a pinch of salt ; 
let it cook for fiv^ minutes, then add half pint 
of veaJ, or chicken bone stock, bring it to the boil, 
and allow it to simmer gently till the carrot is 
quite tender, when you pulp the whole through a 
sieve. Now bring a fresh pint of stock to the boil, 
and stir into it haK an ounce of tapioca, previously 
crushed up small; stir this into the broth for five 
minutes, then cover the pan and let it all simmer 
together for twenty minutes, skimming it carefully 
now and again. Now put the carrot pulp into 
a clean pan, and stir into it gradually, over the fire, 
the tapioca-thickened stock, and as soon as it is hot 
enough, serve. The beauty of this soup lies in its 
velvety substance, from which it derives its name ; so 
trouble must not be spared in sieving it thoroughly. 



CHAPTEE V. 

BEOTHS, A]n) THICKENED SOUPS. 

The ordinary practice wlien describing soups, appears 
to be to class together broth and stock as synonymous 
terms, but this bracketting seems to me somewhat 
confusing, and I have therefore separated them, 
using "stock" as the generic name for the clear, 
strained liquid used as a foundation in soupmaking, 
and reserving " broth " as a distinctive appellation 
for soup prepared as a whole, and served as it stands, 
with all, or nearly all, its ingredients left in it. The 
best type of this form of soup is Scotch broth, in 
which the meat, vegetables, barley, <&c., used in 
making it are quite as much component parts of the 
whole, as the liquid used to moisten it. Of these 
there are many kinds known in England, and very 
good they most of them are. Then there are thick 
Boups, and the difference between these and purees 
(a difference frequently overlooked by the way), 
consists in the fact that they are artificially thickened 
with egg yolk, starch of some kind, <&c., and may, or 
may not, contain portions of the solid ingredients of 
which they are made as a garnish ; whereas a pur^e 
is obtained by crushing all the materials used in its 
manufacture through a sieve, till you produce a result 



62 SOUPS. 

fully as thick as well-made sauce, and which, if 
garnished at all, is always so decorated with a 
specially prepared and separate garnish. French 
cooks fully acknowledge this difference, and never 
fail to distinguish between consomme, potage lie, 
and the purSe, though sometimes a homely form of 
pur^e, of rather thin consistency, slightly thickened 
artificially, and to which some of the original vege- 
tables, <&c., are restored before sending it to table, is 
known as potage puree an whatever it is made of ; or 
sometimes . more simply still potage d la so and so. 
This is an extremely useful form of -soup for the 
economical housewife, as it enables her to prepare 
very appetising soups out of materials that would 
certainly not go far in the manufacture of the more 
definite soups. For instance, any remains of game 
can be utilised in this way ; break up the bones, and 
if you have them, add the neck, trimmings, &c. 
every atom of flesh, however small, being carefully 
removed from the carcases ; cover these pieces with 
sufficient cold common stock to cover them well, add 
a carrot and half a turnip sliced, two or three green 
onions, a bimch of herbs, and a strip or so of celery 
(the outside leaves do excellently for this), and 
seasoning to taste; run the meat taken from the 
bones through the mincer, and pound it, moistening 
it as you work it, with a little stock; then add 
the rest of the stock (strained but not clarified), 
and re-heat, adding to it as you do so a thickening 
made by rubbing a spoonful of flour smoothly with 
a little stock, pouring it to the soup, and bringing 
the whole just to the boil together; add a tea- 



BROTHS, AND THIOKENED SOUPS. .63 

spoonful of wine for a tureenf ul of soup sufficient for 
nine persons, varying the wine according to the game 
used for the soup, using red wine for hare or wild 
duck soup (an extremely nice but imcommon purfe), 
and madeira (otherwise sherry, or marsala) for 
partridges, grouse, <&c., then pour it all as hot as 
possible into the tureen, in which you have pre- 
viously put neatly-trimmed pieces of the vegetables 
used in making the stock, and serve croutons with 
it. It should have been mentioned above that when 
adding the roux, the soup if hot, should be lifted 
off the fire and the roux rubbed up with the liquid, 
stirred in graduaUy and very carefuUy, to prevent 
its clotting and thickening irregularly. If the stock 
is cold when the thickening is added, put the 
thickening to it, and at once stir it over the fire till 
it boils up. As a general principle very nice 
thickened soups can be made by using any purees of 
either game, vegetable, fish, <&c., diluting them with 
stock (meat, fish, or vegetable), milk, or water, as 
happens to be most convenient, and lastly adding a 
liaison of either flour and milk, egg and butter, <&c., 
as you choose, only remembering that if roux, 
either brown or white, be used, the soup must 
be allowed to simmer for a few minutes after it 
is added, though if egg is used as a liaison, this is 
unnecessary. 

When an egg liaison is prepared, as it often is 
for these thick soups, with some of the stock beaten 
up with it, mind the soup is added warm, not boiling, 
and that the whole, egg is thoroughly beaten in at 
the first, for if not, when the bulk of the soup is 



64 SOUPS. 

added it will certainly curdle the white of the egg, 
and make it look anything but nice. 

Another point not sufficiently attended to by our 
cooks concerns the sliced bread often added to these 
thick soups, in France especially. This must not be 
cut anyhow; if it is, it will remain in stodgy, 
clammy lumps, as unappetising to the palate as to 
the sight. The right way is to cut a good, square 
piece of bread free from all crust, and then cut off 
the comer on the slant, diagonally, and slice it thus 
in parallel lines, just as you cut a material '' on the 
cross." If cut thus the bread appears to disintegrate 
quite easily, and blends pleasantly into the substance 
of the soup, without rendering its presence un- 
necessarily obvious. 

Potages LiSs, or thickened soups. 

Brown Soup, — ^There is an old-fashioned English 
soup, often called " gravy soup " by the " good plain 
cook." For it, take three quarts of stock (that made 
from mutton or any other bones will do, as it is so 
coloured and flavoured that initial flavour of its own 
is needless) ; add to it one or two onions cut into 
rings and fried a dark brown, and let these boil in 
the stock for sufficient time to colour and flavour 
it; then strain off the liquor and add to it k 
sweetened roux made thus : melt one ounce of butter 
(or well clarified dripping will do), add to it a 
spoonful of sugar (the size of the spoon in this case 
is a matter for individual taste), and two table- 
spoonfuls of flpur, and let it all cook slowly together 
tOl quite a dark brown, being careful it does not 
catch, or cook too fast, as in the latter case it would 



BROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 65 

become spotty, and also acrid in taste ; stir it carefully 
whilst cooking, to get it quite smooth, then pour 
on to it about one-third of a pint from the soup, and 
stir this into it, letting it all amalgamate together ; 
after which you add to it a wineglassful of red wine 
or very dark sherry, with a tmy blade of mace, some 
bruised peppercorns, and three or four doves, pour 
the rest of the soup on to this, let it all boil together 
for two hours or so, then strain, and serve with fried 
bread. 

G^mekeej^et^B Soup, — Make some good strong 
stock from game bones, cooked and raw, game or 
poultry giblets, and soup vegetables ; of this stock 
take one and a-half pints, and clarify it with e^g 
shell and white, and two or three ounces of raw 
meat, then thicken it with half an ounce finest tapioca, 
simmer it altogether for twenty -five to thirty 
minutes, and then serve with the soup vegetables 
rinsed in a little stock, and trimmed into neat, but 
uot too small, shapes. 

GPiblet Soup {Fotage aux dbaiis). — ^Take three or 
four sets of giblets (the heads, necks, pinions, livers, 
gizzards, and hearts, but put aside the livers of 
which various nice savouries can be made), pick over 
and scald these all well (the pinions and necks 
especially, as these are often unpleasantly feathered), 
skinning the feet, removing the beaks, and splitting 
the heads in two ; cut these aU into neat pieces, add i 
to them a slice of smoked ham, two or four well 
scraped bacon rinds, or 2oz. or 3oz. of lean, imcooked 
bacon, cut up small. Now melt an oimce of well 
clarified dripping or butter in a pan, lay in all the 

p 



66 SOUPS. 

pieces, and fry them till lightly browned, then add t 
gill of second stock, and a sherrjglassful of marsa^a 
and let this all cook together till it becomes a glase ; 
now pour on to all this three pints of second or bone 
stock, together with a good bouquet, or a dessert- 
spoonful of dried herbs tied up in a bit of muslin, 
and bring it all to the boil, when you put into the 
pan 4oz. each of carrots, turnip, leeks, and onion, 
and an ounce of celery ; then simmer it all again for 
three and a-half hours, when you strain it off. 

Let it stand till cold, when the fat must be care- 
fully skimmed off. Now make a rouz with f oz. each 
of butter and flour (it is well to have this ready 
beforehand, for it should be of a coffee brown, and 
this takes some time, for the reason given abore when 
describing brown soup) ; and when this is a smooth 
paste pour 1^ pints to a quart of the stock upon it, 
let it all come to the boil, skim well, run it through 
the sieve, re-heat, add a teaspoonful of lemon jnioe, 
and a tiny dash of cayenne, and serve either as it is, 
or with some pieces of the meat cut from the bones» 
The latter is, however, nowadays reckoned old- 
fashioned. 

This soup can bo made from any giblets, turkey, 
goose, duck, <&c., but of courflc is not so delicate as 
when made from chicken giblets. A very nice clear 
soup can be made, if after letting it stand to clear 
off the fat, you clarify it in the usual way, season it 
with lemon juice and pepper, and serve with littk 
pieces of the meat floating through it. This is of tea 
called ConsommS. avx abatis. 

Hare Soup. — Skin a fresh hare, and wipe it well 



BROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 67 

Trith a clean cloth; cut it open and clean itf- 
being careful to save all tlie blood, which is wanted 
later on. Then cut up the body into neat pieces and 
put these into a pan with three qyfirts of water; or 
second stock can be used, or again, if the hare is a 
small, poor one, put 21b. of shin of beef with it. 
Bring it to the boil, add a good bouquet, two onions^ 
one small carrot, half a head of celery, with twenty 
peppercorns and cloves, skim it carefully, and aUow 
it to boil gently for one and a half hours. After this 
take off the meat from the back ^nd the upper parts of 
the hind legs and put this aside, returning the bones, 
<&c., to the stock, which must be allowed to cook 
for two hours more. Then cut off every scrap of 
meat from the bones, pound it to a paste, and 
i*ub the stock, vegetables and all, with this paste, 
through a hair sieve. Bring this puree to the boil, 
and stir into it an ounce of arrowroot previously 
rubbed smooth with a little mushroom ketchup^ and 
a very little Worcester sauce ; let it boil up for five 
minutes, stirring it steadily, then draw it to the side, 
let it cool and then add the pieces of meat set aside, 
and the blood, stirring it now steadily one way, till 
the colour changes and the sou^ is all but, but not 
quite, boiling. Season to taste, scald out the tiu'een, 
put a small sherry-glassful of wine, port or sherry, 
into it, aud pour on to it the hot soup, and serve at 
once. If care is not taken when adding the blood, 
the soup will curdle and be spoiled. (This is an old- 
fashioned Scotch recipe). Another very nice and 
more economical soup mav be made thus: — skin, 
clean, and well wash the hare, reserving all the 

F 2 



68 SOUPS. 

blood, and Femoving the carcase of tlie bare, whicb 
makes an extremely good roast (especially if the hare 
be large), leaving the neck, shoulders, and legs tor^ 
the soup. Cut the^e up into small pieces, and pat 
them into a pan with 602. raw smoked ham, 4oz. eaeh^ 
of sliced onion and of carrot, a small head of celety^ 
and a good bunch of herbs, together with Soz. or 
4oz. of good dripping, and fry it all sharply^ f<Mf^ 
five minutes over a dear fire, seasoning it ' to 
taste with pepper and salt; hare ready a brcyWn 
roux made with 2oz. of butter and 2|oz. of flour, 
and when this is well blended moisten it with 
three pints of ordinary, or bone stock; add to 
this a claret glassful of port or marsala, let it all boil 
up together till smooth, then poiir it on to the 
pieces of hare, vegetables, &c., and let all cook in it 
very slowly till thoroughly done, wlien you strain off 
all the liquor. Wash the bits of meat in a little 
warm stock, and keep them warm in the bain-marie. 
The soup must be returned to the fire and brou^t 
again to the boil and well skimmed. Meanwhile 
stand a small pan in the bain-marie, and when this 
is warm put into it a gill or so of the soup, and stir 
the blood you saved into it, stirring it well one way 
to get it thoroughly blended, when you pour it slowly 
and gradually into the bulk of the soup as the latter, 
is re-heating ; let it all just not come to the boil, lay 
the pieces of hare into the tureen, pour the soup on 
them, and serve at once. Some people consider that 
little balls of herb farce (such as you use forstdting 
a hare), fried till delicately coloured, and a littio 
red currant or rowanberry jelly are 'an addition to 



BROTHS, AND THICKJaNED SOtTPS. 69 

this soup,' but that is simply a matter of tuste. ' Of 
course you can make either clear or thick soup with 
the remains of a roast hare, in exactly the same way 
as you would any other game soup. 

Kidney Soup, — Well wash and dry a good ox 
kidney, remove all the fat and skin, and cut the 
kidney into small cubes. Now mix together on a 
paper a tablespoonful of flour (in Scotland, where 
this. soup is particularly popular, they use fine oat- 
meal instead), a teaspoonful of salt, and half a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, and toss the kidney cubes in this 
till nicely coated. Melt 2oz. of butter or well clarified 
dripping, and when this is quite hot throw in the 
kidney, flour, &c., and stir it all orer'the fire tiU well 
browned, when you moisten it all witb three pints of 
water; bring this to the boil, skim well, then add 
an oiiion stuck with a dove or two, half a carrot, lialf 
a turnip, and a bunch of herbs, and let it all simmer 
steadily (after re-boiling it up when the vegetables 
are put in) and slowly for two hours. Then strain it 
clear of the vegetia.bles, add to it a tablespoonful of 
mushroom ketchup, and serve. If liked, the vege- 
tables can be cut into dice and served in the soup ; 
but in that case it ii^ as well to use two quarts of 
water. If the soupis^liked of a dark colour the 
vegetables may be browned with the meat, and a 
pinch of Isugar may also be added; in this case the 
vegetables can either be served in the soup, as sLbove, 
or they may be rubbed through a siev6. 

Mock Turtle Soup. — Bone half a calTs head, re- 
ijioving and putting aside the brains. Blanch the 
head (from which you have removed all the bones. 



70 SOUPS. 

keeping the meat as whole as you can) for ten 
minutes in boiling water, then lift it out, and put it 
aside to cool. Now put into a pan the bones of the 
head broken up, a pound each of shin of beef and 
veal knuckle or trimmings, cut into squares, half a 
pound of lean raw bacon, cut up small, 5oz. or 6oz. 
of finely minced onions, loz. of celery, a good bunch 
of mixed herbs, aqd twelve peppercorns, and fry it 
altogether in 4o;b. of good beef dripping till it is 
just beginning to colour, add two quarts of any 
common stock, with salt to taste, and bring it all to 
the boil. Skim carefully, then lay in the calf's head 
and 3oz. or 4oz. each of carrot and turnip cut up ; 
bring it again to the boil, then draw it to the side of 
the store and let it simmer gently but steadily for 
three hours, after which strain off the stock and put 
the head itself into the larder between two plates 
weighted to press. When the stock is cold skim off 
all the fat, and clarify it with egg shells and whites 
and a few ounces of raw veal ; now strain it off, and 
serve with littie rounds cut from the gristly part of 
the head, tiny veal forcemeat balls fried, and a small 
glassf ol of marsala. To this some people also add 
egg hailU made thus: Pound the hard-boiled yolks 
of three eggs with ^alt, cayenne, and the raw whites 
of one or two to a smooth paste ; roll this into little 
balls, flour and fry them a golden brown. Drain 
well and use. These balls may also be boiled tot 
two minutes in salted water. 

Midligatavmy Soup, — ^For this take about three to 

four pints of any good second stock (unless preparing 

special Inditak, or the clear ia\iQi^\ia'Nni:j/i^»S& ^\^^ 



BROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 71 

to use anyyerj first-rate stock, as the condiments 
added to it would destroy its flavour at any rate), 
made from bones, chicken giblets, bacon rinds, two 
or three onions (one stuck with a cIoyo) a carrot, and 
a good bunch of herbs, to which you may, if you 
like, add a teaspoonfid of Liebig's beef extract, and 
strain, cool, and skim well. Now put into a basin 
two tablespoonfuls of fresh grated cocoanut (or the 
desiccated will do), and the same of freshly ground 
ahnonds, and pour on to this a short half pint of 
boiling water, corer the basin with a saucer or a 
thick doth, and let the nuts steep ; melt l^oz. of 
butter in a good-sized stewpan, and lay into it 2oz. 
of finely minced shallots, or common onions, and a 
small clove of garlic, and fry these very gently till 
they begin to colour, when you add two table- 
spoonfuls of mulligatawny paste, or one of the paste 
and one of the curry, together with a dessert- 
spoonful of fine rice flour (or creme de m), and stir 
it slowly over the fire with a wooden spoon, keeping 
it steadily, but gently, cooking for seven or eight 
minutes, adding a little more butter if it gets too 
dry. At this point put in a gill of the stock, and 
stbr it all well into the mixture, incorporating it care- 
fully, adding more and more stock as the previous 
quantity is worked in, till you have put in all the 
stock; then bring it all sharply to the boil, skim well, 
and let it simmer from fifteen to twenty minutes, 
when you strain and thicken it carefully with browii 
roux (l^oz. of flour cooked till smooth and coloured 
with loz. of butter.) As was said before, it is 
better always to keep some tomi, \i^>0![i ^\i^fc ^ja^ 



72 SOUPS. 

brown, at hand, ad either preparation, but the 
brown especiaUj, takes some little time to prepare 
properly. When the sotip is quite smooth, add 
the infusion from the nuts wrung through a napkin, 
re-heat almost to boiling-point and serve. If liked, 
the yolk of an egg may be beaten up with a gill of 
the soup, then returned to the latter and well stirred 
in at the last moment. Eice is of course served with 
this, and should be boiled in this way : — ^Put into a 
four-quart saucepan enough water to three-parts fill it, 
add to this the juice of half a lemon, and a dessert- 
spoonful of salt ; bring this sharply to the boil, and 
when boiling hard drop into it 4oz. to 6oz. of well- 
cleaned rice, and keep the water hard at the boil, 
stirring the rice now and again gently ; when the rice 
has been on the fire for about ten minutes test a 
grain now and again, pressing it between your finger 
and thun^b, till you find that the rice is tender 
through, though still quite firm ; at this point dash 
in at once about a pint of ice-cold water, and drain 
off all the liquid from the rice, returning the latter 
to the hot stewpan, shaking this well as you do so, 
then set it in a T^arm comer at the side of the stove, 
and leave it to dry, well covered with a clean cloth, 
gently shaking the pan now and again to separate 
the grains ; adding in a few minutes |oz. of fresh 
butter, and as this melts, the rice will fall from the 
sides of the pan. This drying process takes quite ten 
to fifteen minutes and must not he hurried. It is very 
difficult to make English cooks understand that rice 
fMist be cooked in an abundance of water, which 
must be boiling hard before the rice is added, that 



BROTHS, AKD THICKENED SOUPS. 73 

must not be overcooked (in which case it is sure to be 
sticky and clammj), and that it must be dried as 
above carefully and slowlj. It is for this reason one 
so seldom sees properly boiled rice on English tables, 
for in itself the process is childishly easy. 

Tou can make a very nice thin or gravy mulliga- 
tawny as above, but without the roux, or the egg 
thickening ; in this case stir a little turmeric or 
saffron amongst the rice to tint it a little. 

Mulligatawny^ Clear, — ^This is a very delicate soup, 
but requires a little attention to bring it to perfection, 
343 it should be as clear as sherry, and about the 
colour of brown sherry, tasting decidedly of mulli- 
gatawny. To obtain this you must for this soup, use 
delicately clarified stock of first-rate quality, to the 
vegetables used in making which you have added the 
following condiments tied up in a piece of muslin : — 
|oz. each of coriander seed, and cardamums, ^z. 
each of cunmiin seed and of fenugreek, a clove of 
garlic, twelve black peppercorns, a bay leaf, and the 
very thinly pared rind of a lemon. These must be put 
in as they are, without either pounding or bruising 
them, and the bag containing them must be lifted 
out of the stock directly the latter is sufficiently 
strongly flavoured. Just as this soup is to be 
served, add to it a very few drops of tabasco, or 
failing this a little Chili vinegar. 

It may be mentioned that clear oxtail flavoured 
in the same way with these spices is well known in 
clubs as potage queue de hoeuf d Vlndienne, and is 
deservedly popular. 

Mulligatawny Maigre. — This soup can also be 



74 SOtTPS. 

prepared, either thick or clear, from either fish or 
vegetables, and is very good in either case. For 
the fish miQligatawnj use a cod's head and about a 
pound of fish trimmings ; it can be made just like 
the thick soup given above, being careful as to the 
flavouring with vegetables, spice, &c. For vegetable 
mulligatawny use the bean stock previously given, 
taking about three pints of this latter (the recipes 
previously given are all based on the assumption 
that three pints of soup are needed). Now melt 
an ounce and a half of butter in a stewpan, 
lay into it 4oz. minced onion, and fry these to a pale 
brown colour, add a tablespoonf ul of fine rice flour 
and a dessertspoonful each of curry paste and powder 
(or a heaped tablespoonf ul of curry powder alone), 
fry this all together for at least ten or twelve minutes 
longer, then gradually work in the stock a little at a 
time, adding to it a tablespoonful of desiccated 
cocoanut or ground almonds if preferred, a tea- 
spoonful of red currant jelly, the juice of half a 
lemon, and if at hand a dessertspoonful of grated 
green ginger. Now bring it all to the boil, simmer 
it for twienty minutes, then rub it all through a sieve, 
re-heat, add the yolk of an egg beaten up with a 
little of the soup, and serve at once with rice. 

(I must observe that for these curry soup recipes 
I am indebted to Colonel Kenney-Herbert's lectures 
on the subject of curries, &c., some years ago.) 

Oxtail Soup, — Cut up two tails into joints, and 
well dust them with flour ; melt 3oz. of dripping in 
a pan, and brown the pieces of tail in this till nicely 
coloured, with a sliced onion. Pour over it all five 



BROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 76 

pints of water or second stock, bring it to the boil, 
skim well, then allow it all to siauner, with a good 
bunch of herbs, half a carrot, a quarter of a turnip, 
and eighteen or twenty peppercorns, till the meat 
is thoroughly cooked, but does not actually leave 
the bones. Now strain off the soup, rinsing and 
setting a^ldse the pieces of tail; let the stock cool, 
skim off all' the fat, then return it to the pan, with 
a spoonful of mushroom ketchup ; let it boil for fire 
minutes, again skim it, add the pieces of tail and 
serve in the soup, very hot. This soup requires very 
careful skimming to get rid of the fat, unleds it can 
be left for a night to throw up all the fat to the 
surface. If, however, it has to be all made in the 
day, take some delicately clean kitchen paper, and 
drop this lightly on the surface of the soup, with- 
drawing it in a minute, when it will carry off a large 
proportion of grease with it ; repeat this till it is 
quite dear. The same treatment applies to all 
soups, consommes e^>ecially. 

A delicious clear oxtail can be made thus : Cut the 
tail in joints, and break each of these by a blow from 
the chopper ; melt; loz. of butter or well clarified 
dripping, and then fry in it 4oz. minced onion, three 
each of carrot and turnip, one of celery, and a nice 
bouquet; when th^se begin to colour put in the 
pieces of tail, and again let it all cook till the meat 
also is lightty browed, when you moisten it all with 
a tumblerful of wixin stock, and a sherryglassful of 
marsala ; then let this all cook gently till reduced 
almost to a glaze, when you cover it all with more 
warm stock, or water, bring it gently to the boil^ 



76 SOUPS. 

skimming it most carefullj, and when thdroughly 
clear of scmn, draw it to the side of the stove and 
keep it simmering steadily for three and a-half hours. 
Now strain the stook off, let it cool, remove all fat 
and clarify if you choose, in the usual way, with raw 
meat and egg shell and white, strain, and serve when 
r^-heated with neat pieces of the tail meat in it. 
The next day after this soup, the bones, clarifying 
meat, &c,, can be used to produce a decidedly nice 
thick oxtail; in this way : Pour on to the tail, meat, 
<&c., together with the requisite vegetables, suf&cient 
water to cover it all, and cook it tHl you have about 
(me and a-half pints of good light stook, which you 
must let cool, and then free from fat. Meantime take 
4oz. of the best part of the meat and pound it to. a 
smooth paste, rubbing this through a wire sieve ; now 
melt ^oz. of butter in a pan, work into it ^oz. of flour, 
let it cook together for three or four minutes, 
moistening it with the stock; work the meatpur^ 
mto it, let it just boil up, then simmer it for ten 
minutes, and rub it all through a hair sieve. Warm up 
when wanted for use, adding to it a dessertspoonful 
of miarsala. « 

Potage a la Bonne Femme, — ^This is an entirely 
vegetable, but very nice soup. For it fry 3oz. or 
4oz. of minced onions till tender, but not in the least 
coloured, then add to them 4«oz. of sorrel leaves 
(previously well wash^ and picked over), loB.of 
chervil, and a nice lettuce, all finely shredded. 
Season with a saltspoonful each of salt and caster 
sugar, and stii* it aU over the fire for fully five 
minutes, then stir in a heaping tablespoonful of 



BROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 77 

flour, and again cook it for fivo minutes more ; now 
xnoisten it with one and a-half pints of equal parts of 
warm milk and water, bring it - very slowly to the 
boil, then draw it aside and let it simmer gently for 
tiiirty to thirty-five minutes. Meantime beat up 
a whole egg with an ounce of butter, and mix it all 
idth a gill of the soup, working it well together till 
Had butter is perfectly melted. This is a point 
requiring attention in all cases where the liaison is 
made by beating up the egg with some of the stock ; 
for if not thoroughly blended, the white of the egg 
will curdle when the soup is added to it, and spoil 
the look of the soup utterly. Now cut some thin 
slices of bread diagonally, lay three or four of these 
at the bottom of the soup tureen, pour the hot soup 
on them, and then stir in the liaison and serve 
at once. Of dourse, if liked, meat or vegetable stock 
can be used for this soup, but it is not in the least 
necessary. 

Fotage a la Bourgeoises — ^For this make some 
stock by re-boiling bones, meat, &c., used f or con- 
sommd, together with the well-rinsed meat used in 
its clarification; then work the vegetables left over 
from the consomme through a hair sieve, moistening 
them as you do so with the strained stock, season to 
taste, re-heat, add a liaison au roux (i.e., flour 
rubbed very .smooth and lightly cooked with a little 
milk), or an egg and stock liaison as in the preceding 
soup, and serve either with croHtons, or if you like 
with the sliced bread in the tureen. 

Fotage Camelia, — ^Have ready one and a-half pints of 
any nice giblet, poultry, or veal stock strained but not 



78 SOUPS. 

darified; to this add two tablespoonfuls of finely 
cruslied tapioca, let it boil up, then simmer it gentlj 
for twenty-fire minutes, strain, and serve with a 
g^amish of young carrots, tumi]), green peas, and 
French beans, cooked separately, and finished with 
a little butter and sugar. 

Potage a la Creole. — Buy a medium-siSed crab, and 
have it sent in uncooked but cleaned ; break up 
the legs, but keep the body and claws whole. Put 
these into a pan with a bouquet (containing besides 
thyme, parsley, bay leaf and green onion, a spray or two 
of sweet basil and marjoram), ten or twelve pepper- 
corns, and enough second stock (either Teal, poultry, 
or muttonshank stock), to cover it aU thoroughly. 
Bring it all to the boil, then draw it to the side of the 
stove and let it simmer for forty to fifty minutes. N o w 
strain it and serve with the flesh of tjie claws and 
body, flaked with two forks into little pieces, in the 
soup. This soup may be served in two ways. One 
is to add a little marsala to it and send it to table 
with quartered lemon and cayenne pepper handed 
round as if it were a form of turtle ; the other and 
to my mind the most delicate, is to add a good glass- 
ful of chablis or sautcme and a delicate little pluche 
of tarragon, chervil, and tiny sprays of parsley. 
But this is simply a question of taste. 

Potage Elise. — ^This is an excellent soup to make 
after a dinner party, as the stock for it can be made 
with second stock from the consommd "perfumed " 
with the carcases, giblets, &c,, of any birds used the 
previous day, and vegetables to taste, in the propor- 
tUui of a full ounce each of carrot, turuip, onion and 



BROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 79 

leeks, |oz. of celery, and a small bunch of herbs 
to the quart. Strain this stock, and thicken it with 
a little flour and milk as described before, adding to 
it at the last a handful or two of sorrel (previously 
cooked in a little stock with a dash of salt and 
sugar, till tender, and then shredded), and some little 
flakes of the meat carefully picked from the bones 
of which the stock was made. Turn this all into a 
hot tureen and then add as liaison an egg well beaten 
up with a giU of the soup, and serve at once. 

Potage /acg'iAcZme.— ^Have ready strained about 
three pints of any common light stock, and strain 
into this whilst hot, but not boiling, from one to 
IJoz. of arrowroot previously rubbed up smoothly 
with a little of the soup till it is as thick as good 
cream ; now let it all just boil up, then simmer it for 
ten minutes, strain it, add to it spring vegetables 
cut into little balls and cooked separately (about a 
spoonful of these for each guest,) pour it all into 
the hot tureen, with the egg liaison beaten up with a 
little of the soup, stir it well together, and serve at 
once. 

Potage Puree Mancelle. — Prepare a good chestnut 
pur^ by shelling and blanching thirty to forty 
shestnuts, stewing them in a gill or so of stock, 
with a little butter and a good bunch of herbs, 
till tender enough to crush through a sieve, then 
moisten this all with suffioient game (second) stock 
to bring it all to a rather thin pur^ ; just boil up, 
add a spoonful or so of cream, and serve with fried 
croHtons, 

Potage a la Menag^e. — There are really two forms 



80 SOUPS. 

of this — a more or less clear, and a thick one. Both 
are distinctly economical, as the clear one is made 
with the second stock from consomm^ materials, 
clarified, and served' with tiny lozenges of carrot and 
wee Brussels sprouts previously cooked separately, 
and small round croutons, grated cheese being 
handed round. For the second form of this soup 
you take about a pint or so of the stock left over 
from the first kind, together with the meat used in 
clarifying it, add another pint of water, and after 
bringing all this to the boil, allow it to simmer 
together for two hours. Have ready minced 8oz. or 
4oz. of onions, 2oz. each of leeks, carrots, and turnip, 
loz. of celery, and a small bouquet ; melt an ounce 
of good dripping (or butter), and fry all the v^e- 
tables in this till they begin to colour. As soon as 
they reach this point add to them about a tumblerful 
of the hot, but not boiling stock, bring it to the boil, 
and then simmer it all till the vegetables are soft 
enough to pulp through a sieve. Now in a clean 
pan melt half an ounce of butter and stir into it half 
an ounce of flour, and cook them together for four 
or five minutes; then add the pulped vegetables, 
with enough stock to bring it all to the consistency 
of thin cream, again boil it up, and then pass it 
once more through a sieve. When wanted for table 
re-heat, and add to it a liaison made of one e^^ 
yolk carefully beaten up, with a spoonful or two of 
milk or single cream. 

Potage de Naveta au 8agou. — ^Well wash a couple 
of spoonfuls of sago in warm water, then blanch and 
drain it, after which add it to about a quart of second 



BROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 81 

stock, and let it boil up ; draw it to tho side of the 
stove till the sago jellies, when you pour it all, with 
some cooked and mashed turnips, through a sieve ; 
season with a little salt and white pepper, and serve 
with croutons. 

Potage Napolitain. — Prepare some good game 
stock, clarifying it in the usual way, or only straining 
it; then add to it some tiny quenelles made of scraps 
of game meat and some little rounds of breadcrumb, 
soaked in the stock fat and dried till crisp and 
golden brown in the oven. 

Potage a la Nimoise. — Have ready some nice fish 
stock strained, but not necessarily clarified, and beat 
up a couple of raw eggs with half a pint of the stock 
over the fire, keeping it stirred one way only, with a 
wooden spoon ; slice down some white breadcrumb 
as described before, put this in the tureen, pour the 
fish stock boiling on to it, then stir in the egg 
liaison, with some picked parsley, and serve at once. 

Potage aux Pdtes d^Italie. — Have ready some 
nicely cleared stock, that made from beef and veal 
bones is best for this ; cook 6oz. or 8oz. of Italian 
paste (the kind like little melon seeds is to be 
preferred) for about ten minutes, then throw them 
into cold water, drain well, add them now to the 
soup, and let it all boil up together for five minutes, 
then serve with grated Parmesan cheese handed roimd 
with it. The stock for this soup need not be very 
strong, though it must be nicely flavoured. 

Potage a la Portugaise, — Fry 6oz. of minced 
Portugal onions in l^oz. of butter till well coloured, 
then strew over them all a good 8pfM)uful of flour, 

a 



82 SOUPS. 

mix it well, and stir into it a teaspoonful of Liebig's 
extract of beef, or a few drops of Maggi's essence, 
season witb a little celery salt and a dash of 
coralline pepper, and pour on to it all nearly a quart 
of stock, bring it slowly to the boil, skim well, 
simmer it all for half an hour, sieve, and pour it 
into a hot tureen, adding as you do so the yolk of 
an egg beaten up and a spoonful of grated Parmesan 
cheese. 

Potage Tomatea, — Put a quart of tomatoes (fresh 
or tinned according to what you have) into a pan 
with about a pint of stock, milk or water, a small 
stick of celery, a good bunch of herbs, a small tea- 
spoonful of sugar and six peppercorns ; bring aU 
this to the boil, then simmer till the tomato is quite^ 
soft. In another pan melt a tablespoonf ul of butter 
or well clarified dripping, and fry in this a sliced 
onion till tender, but not coloured, then strew 
in a tablespoonful of flour, and let this also cook 
without colouring. To this thickening, when cooked, 
add a little of the stock and stir it to a smooth mass, 
then add it gradually to the rest of the stock, &c., 
season to taste, rub it all through a sieve, re-heat, 
and serve with fried croutons and grated cheese. 

Turtle Soup. — This soup, made from the friesh 
turtle, is hardly likely to come within the ken of 
readers of this little book, but it is quite possible in 
these days to make a soup from the " sun-dried " or 
preserved turtle that will meet with much favour. 
This is to be bought in large semi-transparent flakes, 
rather uncomfortably suggestive, to the ordinary 
mrnd, of Bhha of glue. It is, however, real turtle 



BROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 83 

flesh, dried in the tropics and sent home in this 
desiccated shape. To prepare it; for one and a-half 
to two quarts of soup, take half a pound ^f the 
turtle, and soak this in cold water for three days, 
changing the water frequently; now drain an^ put 
it on in about two quarts of stock with (for this 
quantity), two or three strips of celery, on© carrot, 
one turnip, one leek, two bay leaves, two or three 
onions, and a good bunch of herbs, containing 
besides the usual thyme, parsley, green onions, and 
piece of lemon peel, a blade or two each of sweet 
basil and marjoram ; to this add two or three cloves, 
a small blade of mace, six black and white pepper- 
corns, and a Jamaica pepper tied up in a bit of 
muslin ; bring this all to the boil, then let it simmer 
steadily for ten or twelve hours till the meat is well 
swelled, adding more stock as that in the pan 
reduces. When the turtle is cooked strain off the 
stock, let it cool, take off all the fat, clarify it in 
the usual way, and strain off through a delicately 
clean cloth. Now for each quart take one dessert- 
spoonful of best arrowroot, and mix this very 
smoothly with a wineglassful of sherry, then bring 
the stock to the boil, add in the arrowroot, and stir 
it all together till it boils again ; now lift the turtle 
out of the vegetables, cut it into inch squares, rinse 
these in a little warm water, and add it to the boiling 
soup, together with a tin of turtle fat ; let it boil 
together for a few minutes, then flavour it all with 
a squeeze of lemon juice and a little coralline pepper, 
and add, if liked, some egg balls (see recipe for this 
in mock turtle soup), and «en^, ^wNJCia. o^^is^jst^^ 

Q 1 



84 SOUPS, 

lemon handed round. (This is Mrs. A. B. MarshaJl's 
recipe.) 

When in a hurry a very praiseworthy substitute 
for ordinary turtle soup may be made by using the 
"Sildeen" soup, mentioned above, thus: Stir two 
good teaspoonfuls of arrowroot smoothly in two 
wineglassf uls of sherry, add a few di*ops of lemon or 
lime juice, and a dash of coralline pepper, and mix it 
up with a one pound tin or jar of preserved tiutle, 
cut up rather small ; then pour on to it two bottles of 
consomm^ Sildeen, let it just boil up, dissolve in it 
^oz. of Mrs. A. B. Marshall's leaf gelatine, and servo. 
The quality and purity of the gelatine used for this 
is a very important considaution. 



CHAPTEK VI. 

BROTHS, AND THICKENED SOJJPS.^CContd.) 

As was said before, broth is, strictly speaking, a thick 
form of soup, ahnost approaching a stew in appear- 
ance, and is served with most, if not actually all, of 
its component parts sent to table with it, e.g., the 
well-known mutton, or Scotch broth. Naturally such 
broth is of a very substantial nature, and is practi- 
cally a meal in itself; it is therefore unfitted for 
use as an introduction to a proper dinner, but it is 
a most satisfactory dish for lunch, nursery or school- 
room dinner, and last but not least, always acceptable 
to tired sportsmen and travellers, who find food 
easier to assimilate in this semi-liquid condition. To 
its other merits it adds that of economy, both ill 
actual expense and in trouble, and it would be well if 
a knowledge of its merits were more generally spread 
amongst the working classes in this country, who 
could in this way, obtain savoury and sustaining 
food at a price far below what they now pay for less 
nutritious, or appetizing meals. 

Barley Broth (or Scotch Broth). — Put into a pan 
31b. of mutton (the neck, shoulder, &c., are most 
used for this, for which indeed any scraps can, if 
necessary, be utilised), with three o^axt^. ^1 ^a^A. 



86 SOUPS. 

water, lOoz. to 12oz. of pearl barley, and a good 
spoonful of salt ; lastly put in a good cupful of white, 
or double that quantity of old green peas ; bring it 
slowly to the boil, skimming it very carefully, to 
remove as mucli scum as possible ; when it begins to 
boil up put the lid on the pan, but keep it lifted by 
placing a wooden spoon across it (in Scotland the 
"spurtle" or broth stick, is used for this purpose), 
and allow it to boil steadily and not too fast for an 
hour ; the superfluous grease and froth escapes in 
this way, and leaves the brotb clear of the fat, which, 
if made in the ordinary way, is always an objection 
to mutton broth. When it has boiled for an hour, 
put in two or three small carrots and turnips, cut up 
into dice (or the carrots may be grated), and the 
wl^ite part of three good leeks cut into inch lengths, 
for each quart, and again let it boil for an hour till 
the vegetables are thoroughly cooked. Fifteen 
minutes before it is ready put a spoonful or so of 
nice parsley picked (not cut up) small, and serve, 
either just as it stands, meat and all, in the tureen, 
or if the meat has been cooked in the piece, lift it 
out, rinse it free from vegetables, Ac., with a little of 
the broth, and serve it on a separate hot dish either 
with a little of its own broth and a garnish of soup 
vegetables, or witb well-made caper or nasturtium 
sauce over it. In this latter case it is weU to lift 
the piece of meat out of the soup as soon as it is done, 
and continue cooking the vegetables alone, only 
returning the meat in time to heat it thoroughly. 
Such is the Scotcb way of making this modt ex- 
cellent dish, though of cowx&e tiLoiQ at^ many 



BROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 87 

variantea to be found in the "land o' cakes." 
For instance, this broth is often made of a 
piece of beef from the " runner," or thin flank, and 
is quite as good, made in just the same way; or 
curly kale not too finely shred, and an increased 
portion of leeks may replace the carrots and turnips 
of the original recipe. Many recipes use onions 
instead of the leeks, but the former do not make as 
nice broth as the latter, as these appear to dissolve and 
blend better than do the onions, which, moreover, 
disagree with many people. Another point to watch 
is the barley. This must be fresh and sound, and 
then no more requires washing than flour does; 
unfortunately this is a point on which cooks, English 
ones especially, are not sufficiently careful, and hence 
often arises the dislike to mutton broth ; for if the 
barley is not first-rate, it gives a disagreeable, 
" glairy," ropy consistency to the liquid. When beef 
runner is used instead of mutton, curly kale should 
always be added to this soup. 

Brochan, — ^This is another form of Scotch broth, 
little known south of the Tweed, but most decidedly 
praiseworthy. For this beef must always be used, 
but no vegetables save curly kale, and for some tastes 
a leek or two, while the pearl barley is replaced by 
a handful of good oatmeal to each quart of water. 
Both these broths, brochan especially, were always 
(and probably in many places still are) made of salt 
meat (that salted down for the winter), and this is 
held to improve the flavour greatly. In fact, to 
Scotch taste fresh meat would spoil this soup. It 
may be mentioned that salt b^i ^sA T£^ss^;KRi^\^»ss^ 



88 SOUPS. 

often form its foundation, and np in the Highlands 
" braxy " meat is considered distinctly the best for 
it. Brochan, it should be remembered, is neyer so 
thick as broth ; in fact, it is only slightly thickened 
by the oatmeal, of which there must not be too 
much. 

(These are genuine Highland recipes.) 
Bread Broth, — For this slice down as many slant- 
ing slices of breadcrumb as there are guests, put 
these in a well-scalded and hob tureen, and pour on 
to them sufficient stock to swell the bread and 
thoroughly soak it; cover down the tureen, and 
keep it hot till the bread is thoroughly soaked and 
almost, but not quite, in a mash ; then pour on to 
it sufficient stock to make it into nice, not too thick, 
broth, and to this may be added some of the vege- 
tables used in preparing the soup, cut in small 
slices or rounds. The stock used for this may be 
that from the pot au feu (this is a French recipe), 
or it can be the second boilings of beef bones used 
in making first stock, but anyway it should be care- 
fully freed from grease. A little grated cheese, 
Parmesan or Gruytre, may be handed round with it, 
and is a decided addition. 

(Whilst on the subject of bone stock, it should be 
borne in mind that not until a bone looks white, 
dry, and full of holes, is the nutriment in it 
exhausted, and though the stock from a third boiling 
if bones may not be very strong in itself, yet it 
adds a good deal both to the substance and flavour 
of soups which might otherwise have to be made of 
water alone.) 



BEOTHS, AND THIOKEKED SOUPS. 89 

Cocha-Leehie. — ^Per this beef stock should properly 
be used, but good bone stock will be found very 
satisfactory. Put into a large pan about two quarts 
of strong, well-strained stock, and put into it an old 
fowl trussed as for boiling (an old black cock or an 
old cock grouse may be strongly recommended for 
this purpose), and as soon as the stock boils up, 
which it must do slowly, add nine or ten good leeks, 
freed from the root and most of the green part (the 
finer the leeks the nicer will this soup be), and let it 
boil up steadily, skimming it very carefully. Season 
it to taste with salt and pepper, and as soon as the 
leeks seem to have blended with the soup and the 
whole has become of a soft creamy consistency 
(this will be in about half an hour), add as many 
more leeks, and let it all cook very gently for 
about one hour and a half to two hours. The fowl 
may be served in the tureen, either whole or cut 
into joints, or it may be served separately with white 
or egg sauce, &c., as you choose. Leeks cooked 
in this way with the carcase of a fowl and then 
rubbed through a sieve make delicious leek soup. 
Formerly stewed prunes or French plums were 
served with cock-a-leekie as a garnish. 

Cottage Broth, — Out half a pound of neck of 
mutton up into small squares ; melt in a dry, clean 
pan a good tablespoonful of dripping or good fat, 
then lay into it the mutton and its bones, and 
fry them till nicely browned, turning them over and 
over with a spoon as they cook. Cut up a carrot 
and a turnip into dice, and add them to the meat ; 
next put in two or three large le^Vi^ ^^^Ckj^ "^ssSs. 



90 SOUPS. 

shred, turning all these ingredients well over with a 
spoon as they are added ; lastly add a fuU teacup- 
ful of rice well washed, a teaspoonful of sugar, and 
the same of salt, with pepper to taste ; keep turning 
this all over and over with the spoon for five 
minutes, then pour to it two and a half quarts of 
water, cover the pan, bring it all to the boil, and 
keep it at a steady simmer for rather more than 
an hour, when it will be ready. It may require a 
little more seasoning. 

This soup is equally nice if made without the 
meat, but in that case add another leek or two. 

Colbert J?ro<^.— Blanch thoroughly in salted water 
the hearts of four or five good heads of endive, 
then shred them down and toss them in a little 
butter till perfectly soft ; now pour on to them suffi- 
cient stock to moisten them well, thicken with an egg 
or two beaten up with a spoonful or two of new milk 
or single cream, and serve very hot. This makes an 
excellent pur^e if crushed through a sieve, thickened 
with cream and egg yolks, and served with small 
poached eggs^ when it is known as potage purSe 
Colbert a la creme, 

Curry Broth, — ^Boil the head and feet of either a 
sheep, lamb, or young calf, till quite tender in three 
to four quarts of water (according to size) ; leave it 
till next day, then carefully remove all fat about it. 
Lift out the meat, rinse it in a Httle stock, and after 
taking out all the bones, cut it up small. Now brown 
a sliced or minced onion in an ounce or so of 
dripping, then fry in the same pan two table- 
spoonfids of curry powder, dusting this as you do 



BROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 91 

so with a tablespoonful of flour, and a teaspoonf ul of 
salt; then add a dessertspoonful of lemon or lime- 
juice (or good vinegar), and lastly stir to it the liquid 
in which the meat was boiled. Add the pieces of 
meat, let it all get very hot together, and serve with 
rice handed round. 

A French way of serving this (which is in reality 
a Cape and Mauritian dish) , is to toss the meat for 
a minute or two with the onion, curry, &c., then turn 
it all with some good rice previously cooked in stock, 
into a soup tureen, and strain the boiling stock on 
to it. For company, the fried meat, curry, &c., is 
moistened with the stock which is allowed to boil up, 
and is then strained on to the boiled rice only ; but 
the homely way is to most people's taste the nicest.- 

FUh Broth (French). — Bring some good fish stock 
to the boil, then put into it the hearts of two or three 
lettuces, a stick or so of celery, a good handful of 
sorrel, and some chervil, all shredded ; when 
these are thoroughly cooked, beat up the yolks of 
two or more eggs with a little of the stock, let it 
thicken over the fire, and then add the whole of the 
soup to it, stirring it well together ; now pour it into 
the tureen in which you have previously placed some 
diagonally sliced bread sprinkled generously with 
good salad oil, or oiled butter. 

A more dainty version of this is prepared as 
follows: — Bring some strong fish stock well freed 
from fat, to the boil, then stir into it a good lump of 
curry butter (i.e., curry rubbed up till smooth with a 
httle butter), allow it to simmer for t^i^o or three 
minutes, then thicken it with a liaison of e^g yolks 



92 SOU?S. 

and milk or cream, and pour it all into the tureen 
on to some cooked fillets of sole cut up small, some 
turned vegetables preidously cooked in butter with a 
. little sugar, and a fair quantity of crayfish tails or 
shelled prawns, and servo very hot. 

Fish Broth (Scotch). — Make a good stock with 
fish heads and trimmings, together with one or two 
cheap whole fish such as haddock, whiting, &c., 
allowing a quart of water to each l^lb. of fish ; add 
to it a good bunch of herbs, a leek or two or a green 
onion or so, and some peppercorns, let it all cook 
till the whole fish are cooked, when they must be 
lifted out. Now boil the rest to a mash, then 
rub it all through a coarse sieve. Thicken if neces- 
sai'y, with a little white roux, return the whole fish 
cut into three or four pieces, or into neat fillets, to 
the soup, add a little picked parsley, let it all boil 
up together, and serve in a tureen. 

Friar*8 Chicken, — Make a nice clear stock of 
poultry carcases, veal trimmings, or mutton shank 
bones, and strain it clear. Now cut up a young fowl 
as for curry, and put it into a pan with the strained 
stock, and a seasoning of white pepper, a little 
mace, and shred parsley ; when the chicken is fully 
and rather over cooked, lift out the pieces and keep 
them hot, then thicken the soup with the yolks 
of two eggs, and pour it into the tureen with the 
fowl joints. If you fry the fowl joints till nicely 
browned, in plenty of butter, you need use no stock. 
Babbits are very good cooked thus. 

Oarhure Oratinee, — ^This is a very favourite, if 
homely, French soup, seldom, if ever, seen in 



BROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 93 

England. Line a saucepan with some slices of 
bacon or ham, and lay on this some cabbages, halved 
or quartered according to size, and some dice of ham 
or smoked bacon ; add to this two or thre^ sliced 
carrots and onions, and a good bouquet, and let it all 
cook very gently, moistening it with stock straight 
from the stock pot (for this you need not remove the 
fat) ; as soon as the cabbage is cookedy have ready 
some breadcrumb sliced and previously well soaked 
in boiling stock, and generously dusted with grated 
cheese (it should be Gruyere and Parmesan mixed 
equally) ; now take a casserole or fireproof dish, and 
spread in it a layer of the cooked cabbage, dusting 
this also with cheese, then a layer of the soaked 
bread, and continue these layers, strewing cheese 
between each, until the pan is full, and finishing 
with a layer of cabbage which must be even more 
thickly spread with cheese than the other. Now 
place the dish in the oven, or in a Dutch oven, till it 
is well browned all through (or gratine as the French 
say.) Serve it burning hot, handing round with it 
some second stock nicely strained, for those who do 
not care for too thick a soup. 

Green Pea Broth. — Boil two quarts of old greon 
peas in water till tender enough to rub through 
a sieve back into their own water ; meantime put a 
pint of yoiuig green peas into an earthenware jar 
with 4oz. of butter, the heart of a cos lettuce, two 
or three small cucimibers, sliced and freed from pips 
(the crooked ones unfit for table do nicely for this), 
eight to ten small onions, and a teaspoonf ul of caster 
sugar ; stew this all in the oven till tender, when 



94 SOUPS. 

you mix it with tlie pulped peas, and let it all boil 
up together. Stir a spoonful of cream into the soup, 
with a dash of cayenoe, just at the last. If old peas 
are not handy, make the first stock by boiling the 
young peascods exactly as you did the old peas; 
a spray of mint should be cooked in the pan with 
the young peas, but carefully lifted out before they 
are added to the rest of the soup. This soup makes 
a delicious purfe, if a few of the yoimg peas are 
kept back, and the rest of the peas, lettuce, &c., is 
crushed through a sieve with the original stock, it is 
then allowed just to boil up to thicken it, the 
young peas are returned to it, and it is served with 
little croutons of cheese straw paste strongly 
seasoned with cayenne. 

Oreen Pea Broth (tinned). — Fry an onion and a 
carrot, sliced or minced, in an ounce of butter, till 
lightly coloured, then pour to this one and a-half 
pints of stock; season to taste with pepper and 
a teaspoonful of brown sugar, and let it all cook 
•slowly for half an hour or so. Meanwhile, bring a 
pint of canned peas to the boil, with a spray of mint, 
in a little salted water, and when soft enough crush 
them through a sieve, moistening them as you do so 
with the ready-prepare4 and strained stock ; allow 
it all just not to boil up again, stir in an egg yolk 
and milk thickening, and serve with fried croutons 
of bread or cheese pasty and a dash of cayenne. 

Hotch'Potch, — Of this there are two kinds — the 

summer (or spring) and the winter one. For the 

former take 81b. or 41b. of the best end of the neck 

or the loin of iamb, and after lemo^xi^ ^ \xii\if^o&^- 



BROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 95 

sarj f at, put it into a clean pan, with two or tliree 
carrots cut into dice and two more grated, two or 
tliree turnips also cut into dice, a smaU cauliflower, 
and a lettuce broken up small, Ave or six spring or 
green onions slired, a little minced parsley, and 
about a pint of young green peas, Tbere should 
be a quart of the cut up vegetables, without 
counting the peas. Pour on to these two quarts of 
water or thin second poultry or mutton-bone stock, 
and after bringing it to the boil, let it simmer 
steadily at the side of the fire for an hour and a half, 
then lift out the meat, cut it into cutlets or chops, 
and keep it hot. Now add another pint of young 
peas to the soup, and as soon as these are cooked 
lay back the chops into the soup, let it all heat 
together for a few minutes, then serve. The great 
secret of success in this dish is to have meat and 
vegetables alike both young and fresh, though you 
may vary the latter according to what is at hand. 
Asparagus points, young cabbage, lettuce, &c., can 
all be used most successfully. 

For winter hotch-potch use fresh beef or mutton, or 
equal parts of both, using sliced and grated carrots, 
turnips, and leeks ; a little before the soup is 
ready add some finely-shred German greens and 
parsley ; season to taste. This soup must not be 
as thick as the spring hotch-potch, still a little 
toasted oatmeal, or a handful^ of whole peas boiled 
in it, is an improvement. Only for this soup the 
meat must be fresh. 

Irish Broth. — Melt an oimce of butter or well- 
clarified dripping, and in it trj A«yL, ^"L ^SGX5^^s^*^ 



96 SOUPS. 

till they begin to colour, when vou strew in half au 
ounce of flour, and mix this well ; now moisten it 
all with iLbout a pint and a half to a quart of stock 
made from mutton bones (any not too strongly- 
flavoured common stock will do for this), and as this 
is cooking stir into it about 4oz. of mashed potato, 
season with pepper, salt, and a tiny dust of mace, 
and when it is all a fairly smooth pulp work into it 
an egg yolk beaten up with a gill of new milk, and 
serve very hot. Fried croutons go with this. 

Julienne Broth. — Take equal quantities of turnip, 
celery, leeks, onions, cabbage, lettuce, sorrel, and the 
red part of carrots, and shred these all into the well- 
known julienne strips; then put the onions and 
leeks in a frying-pan with a little butter, for a few 
minutes; blanching the rest of the vegetables to- 
gether with a little picked chervil, in salted water for 
five minutes. Now strain off aU the water from 
these, and put them 'with the leeks and onions in a 
pan with a pinch of caster sugar, loz. of butter and 
just enough stock to cover them. Let them all 
simmer together for two hours or so, when you add 
in as much more stock as you require soup, let it all 
heat up together and serve. This soup is of courst^ 
thicker and nothing like so clear as the ordinary 
Consomm^ julienne, but^it is distinctly nicer and 
with a delicate vegetable taste only obtained by this 
method, which is the real French julienne. A few 
young green peas, and asparagus points, cooked 
separately, may be added to this, if liked. No wine. 

Julienne Maigre. — For this shred into julienne 
strips 4oz. of the ted part of some good carrots, loz. 



BROTHS, AKD THICKENED SOUPS. 97 

eixcli of turnip and leeks, two full ounces of onion, 
and l^oz . of celery with pepper and salt to taste. 
Toss these over the fire in 5oz. or 6oz. of butter, and 
when they are all nicely coloured add to them three 
pints each of the water in which haricot beans and 
lentils have been cooked, and let them simmer very 
gently altogether for four hours. Just as you are about 
to serve this slice -lib. of bread crumb, diagonally 
into the tureen, pour the soup boiling upon it and serve. 
A great deal of the success of this depends on the bean 
and lentil stock being clear and nicely flavoured. 

** Kail, Scotch** — This is really nothing more than 
Scotch broth, but there is an old-fashioned edition 
of it, said to have been the original ** kail," celebrated 
by Sir Walter Scott (when " the monks of Inisfail 
made gude * kail ' on Fridays when they fasted ! ") 
The secret of this broth was that though the meat 
was omitted, the pearl barley was cooked in the 
water with the addition of an ounce or two of good 
dripping rubbed up smoothly with some toasted 
oatmeal ; a rather generous allowance of vegetables 
being put in for each quart of water, curly kale or 
kail being specially prominent in the mixture for 
which the barley broth recipe previously given will 
answer capitally. 

LeeJc Broth. — Cut some leeks into inch lengths and 
toss these in butter or well clarified dripping, till 
well browned, then pour on to them sufficient stock 
for the quantity desired of soup, add some raw 
sliced potatoes, and allow these to cook till quite 
tender, but not mashy, in the stock and then pour it 
on to diasronallv sliced bread and serve. 



98 SOUPS. 

Livonian Broth, — Blanch in salted water, then 
drain well, carrots, turnips, celery, parsley, leeks and 
onions shred into Julienne strips, allowing a pound 
of these mixed vegetables for each quart of stock 
(remember the turnip and celery should be in the 
proportion of 2oz. or l^oz. to 4oz. of the onions, 
leeks, and carrots respectively, with say ^oz. over for 
the parsley, to the quart of "v\ ater) ; now add to these 
a couple of handfuls of blanched rice, and sufficient 
stock to moisten it all well, and let it cook till it 
is tender, adding more stock as required; when 
ready, stir into it a little boiling cream, with if liked, 
an Q^^ yolk liaison (this is not necessary, though 
niqe), and serve with fried croutons. 

Meg Merriliea* Broth (sometimes called Gypsy 
Broth.) — For this take from two to four pounds of 
trimmings, and coarse parts of venison, beef, or 
mutton, especially the shanks. Break up any bones 
there may be, and boil those all with two or three 
carrots and turnips, four onions, a leek or two, a 
bunch of herbs, and ^oz. of peppercorns, in three or 
four quarts of water, and after bringing it to the 
boil let it all simmer steadily for three hours. Now 
skin and cut down an old blackcock, half a hare, or 
a rabbit, a brace of partridges or of grouse, a 
pheasant or a fowl (in short, whatever comes 
handiest), cutting up all into neat pieces, rolling 
them in spioe and flour, and frying them brown in a 
little dripping ; now strain off the stock, add to it the 
birds, with ten or twelve small onions, two or three 
heads of celery sliced, half a dozen peeled and 
q uartered potatoes, and when it has boiled up add in 



BROTHS. AND THICKENED SOUPS. 99 

a small white cabbage quartered, with salt and spice 
to taste. Just bring it to the boil, then let it simmer 
slowly and steadily till the game is all tender ; now 
add to it the pieces cut from the original meat and 
bones, allow these to heat, and then turn the whole 
savoury stew into the tureen and serve. A few 
mushrooms add immensely to this dish, which, how- 
over, is really more of a rich stew than a soup, but 
is an excellent way of using up all sorts of old game, 
for the greater the variety the better the soup. I 
liave used pigeons, woodcock, snipe, old blackcock, 
fowl and rabbits, in the same brew, and always 
found it was appreciated. This is an excellent dish 
to send to the hill, in a Norwegian hot pot, or for 
a skating party. It was worked out from a second- 
hand version of the recipe given in Meg Dod. 

Potato Broth, — Take any bones left over from a 
joint, or trimmings, and if raw, fry them in an ounce 
or so of dripping, then pour on to them three pints 
of water, and after bringing them to the boil, let 
them cook steadily for an hour. Now strain off this 
stock on to six potatoes and three or four leeks, 
which have been parboiled, and then shred up thinly, 
together with grated carrot, season with pepper and 
salt, bring it all to the boil, and let it boil for an 
hour, stirring and skimming it every now and then. 
Crush the vegetables with a wooden spoon till the 
soup is thick (but do not sieve it), and serve vciy 
hot. 

Ox'Cheek Broth, — Melt an ounce of dripping, aud 
in it brown an ox-cheek and a few bones, cooked or 
raw, and broken up, then pour on to it three quails 

H 2 



^^^ ^.^^ 



100 > SCHJPS. 

of water, bring gently to the boil, slkimming well, 
and allow it to simmer till the water is reduced to 
two quarts ; then add a teacupful of pearl barley, 
five or six good leeks, or, failing these, onions, a 
turnip, a carrot, and a good bunch of herbs, with 
salt and pepper to taste. When the oxcheek is 
cooked lift it out, cut off all the meat, and return 
the bone to the pot, and let it all cook tiU the vege- 
tables are quite tender. Then lift out the bone and 
the bimch of herbs, and either crush the rest aU 
through a sieve, or strain out the vegetables, mince 
them roughly, as also the meat of the ox-cheek; 
thicken the soup with an ounce or so of brown roux, 
return the vegetables and the meat to the soup, and 
serve. If made into a puree by sieving, a little of 
the vegetable must be kept back, cut into dice, and 
added with the meat to the puree as a garnish. 

St Marceau Broth. — This is another form of the 
green pea broth previously given, especially if the 
foundation is made of the peascods, as this makes a 
thinner purfe ; it is all rubbed through a sieve, the 
peas kept back are added to it, together with some 
carefully steyved leeks cut into julienne strips, and 
some shred cooked lettuce, with a liaison of egg yolk 
and cream, the whole being served with fried 
croutons of bread, or preferably cheese pastry, 
strongly flavoured with coralline pepper. 

Sheep's Head Broth. — To make this properly the 
sheep's head (which should be large and fat), shoidd 
be sipged, together with the trotters, and both then 
soaked for some time in tepid water. Then clean it 
well, scraping both head and trotters, removing the 



BROTHS, AND THICKENED SOUPS. 101 

brains, well washing and cleansing the head and all 
the gristly parts. The trotters should be split and 
the tendons removed. If you get the head, <&c., 
from the butcher, however, he will have done all this 
for you. Now put a good cupful of pearl barley and 
twice that quantity of old and well- soaked peas into 
a pot with a full gallon of water, lay in the head, 
the trotters, and a couple of pounds of scrag of 
mutton, with some salt. Bring it all slowly to the 
boil, skimming it well all the time, and let it 
cook steadily. After it has boiled for about an hour 
add a grated carrot or two, a turnip cut into dice, 
three or four shred onions, and some parsley. It will 
now require from three to four hours more steady 
cooking, according to the age and size of the sheep's 
head, remembering that the slower it is cooked the 
better will the broth be. The trotters will take far 
less time to cook, and should be lifted out when 
done, if to be served, Scotch fashion, on a separate 
dish with the sheep's head. If not, cut the meat off 
the head and feet, and return it to the soup when to 
be served. But if economically minded, very nice 
brawn can be made of the sheep's head. 

Soup Kitchen Broth. — The following excellent 
soup is " lifted," with an apology, from Sir Henry 
Thompson's "Food and Feeding." 

Take six poimds of shin of beef, cut the meat from 
it up in small pieces, and break up the bone. Put 
the minced meat into a gallon of warm water, and 
let it soak for two hours ; then drain ofE the liquor, 
and set aside the meat. Meantime put the bones on 
*n another pan with another gallon of water, and 



102 SOUPS. 

boil them well for six hours, keeping the liquid 
always up to a gallon by the addition of more water 
as that in the pan evaporates. When cooked thus, 
strain the liquid and mix it with that obtained from 
soaking the meat. Have ready a puree of twenty 
iiounds split peas, haricots, or lentils as you choose, 
previously soaked for twenty-four hours in cold 
water, then simmered very slowly for four hours, 
until tender enough to pulp through a wire sieve. 
Next mix seven pounds of fine or medium oatmeal 
very smooth with a little cold water, add by degrees 
two gallons of hot water, bring it to the boil, and 
then simmer it for an hour. Now add all these 
ingredients very slowly to eight gallons more of 
water, incorporating them well together ; have ready, 
previously fried in a pound of lard or dripping, four 
or five pounds of onion, celery, and carrot, and when 
sufficiently tender, crushed through a coarse sieve or 
mashed down with a wooden spoon ; add this, with 
the minced meat, to the soup, with pepper and salt 
to taste ; bring it all to the boil, and use. This will 
give twelve gallons of good strong broth. This 
makes a very strong, nourishing soup, and might 
well bear the addition of two or three gallons more 
of water, when it would still be a strong, nutritious 
broth. 



CHAPTEE VII. 

FOEEION SOTJPS. 

Having given some general account of the soups 
most ordinarily seen at British tables, it may be 
interesting to give a few, more distinctly foreign and 
national. As a matter of fact the name of these is 
almost legion, so only those known io myself are 
here given. Some of these are little Khort of stews, 
others again are clear ; some are hot, some others are 
actually iced ; whilst lastly, a few of the sweet soups, 
such favourites on the Continent, are included in 
the list. 

Beetroot Soup, — ^Well wash two large beetroots, 
and boil them in the usual way in their skins, till 
quite tender ; when cold, remove the skin, and chop 
up the beetroot very fin»^ly with two large and 
previously parboiled onions ; put into a pan three 
pints of bone stock well seasoned to taste, add the 
minced vegetiibles, and bricg it all sharply to the 
boil. When the vegetables are quite cooked, lift the 
pan off the fire, add a couple of spoonfuls of sour 
cream, and serve with &ied croutons. This is a 
German form of the Russian bortsch. 

Bird's Nest Soup, - These birds' nests are simply 
the nects of a particular kind of swallow, and if the 



104. SOUPS. 

real truth be spoken concerning them, are ch leflj of 
use in the soup because of their gelatinous nature ; 
for of themselves they have little, if any taste. 
Each nest prepared for commerce weigJis about Joz., 
and one should be allowed for each guest, which, 
considering the price of each of these little pieces of 
gelatinous matter, makes an even more expensive 
soup than turtle made entirely from tho turtle, ejnX 
not as scandalmongers assert, on a basis of conger- 
eel stock. Soak the nests for twenty-four hours in 
cold water; if you are hurried use tepid, or even 
warm water, in which case the soaking time is 
halved at least. When you find they aio swollen 
and softened, diuin them on a clean cloth and care- 
fully remove all the little black spots visible on them 
(these are in reality stumps and bits of feather) with 
the point of a larding needle. Then rinse them in 
two or three waters, drain and lay them into boiling 
and well clarified chicken stock, which must not ba 
over salted ; bring this all to the boil, then draw it to 
the side and allow it to simmer steadily for threer 
quarters ot an hour. When just about to serve this, 
add a few drops of chili wine, or a dash of cayenne. 
The whole success of this soup depends on the 
stock used, which must be very rich, strongly 
flavoured, and absolutely clear chicken consomme. 

Bortsch, — This is a Russian dish, requiring for its 
];)erfection the fermented juice of beetroot. To 
prepare this fill a small headless barrel ^th well 
coloured and sound beet, peeled and quartered, 
cover them with spring water, throw a cloth over 
the open top of the barrel, place the latter in a 



FOREIGN SOUPS. 105 

wann comer and leave it to fermcjt. At the end of 
eight or ten days cover the barrel and set it in the. 
cellar. In a few days the juice of the beet can 
h-e strained off and bottled, the beet themselves 
being thrown away. 

Into a pot j)roportioned to the amount of soup to 
be made, put some knuckle of veal and some thin 
flank of beef (one part veal to two or three of beef), 
a duck, an old hen, 6oz. or 8oz. of smoked bacon 
eight or nine little chipolata sausages (these are 
small, specially prepared, and dried sausages), two 
ozs. each of carrots, leeks, and onions, two or three 
parsley roots, and three or four cloves ; now cover 
this with the fermented beetroot juice, bring it 
all to the boil, skim carefully and then simmer 
steadily till the various ingredients are cooked, re- 
moving each as it is done, till only the stock is left, 
which must then be clarified in the usual way with 
egg shells and raw meat, after removing all the fat. 
Meantime cut the fillets of the duck and fowl into 
neat pieces ; the bacon into dice, the sausages after 
removing their skins, being sliced diagonally, to- 
gether with some dice cut from the stock beef ; put 
all these into the tureen, together with two hand- 
fuls of cold, separately cooked, beetroot cut into 
julienne strips, and pour the boiling soup on to 
them. This soup must be crystal clear and of a 
rich red colour. This can also be served simply 
with a garnish of quenelles, or even pearl barley, 
whilst for ball suppers it is often served quite plain. 
Remember this must not be cooked in a tinned pot, 
or the colour — its great beauty — will suffer. Sour 



lOG SOUPS. 

thick cream is often used to thicken this soup before 
pouring it on to the garnish. A couple of wineglass- 
f uls of this cream, which should be almost a curd, is 
enough for a good quantity of soup. This soup can 
be prepared in the same way, only using tench cut 
into pieces, and other fish instead of the meat, but 
must then be garnished with separately cooked pearl 
barley, the trimmed fillets of the fish, and a julienne 
of the leeks, celery, and parsley roots (together 
with some dried mushrooms), which have been 
cooked in the soup. This can also be thickened with 
the sour cream. Serve if liked with puff pastry 
croutons, 

Bouille-a-Baisse. — This is reckoned usually 
amongst the soups, but it is in reality merely a liquid 
fish stew. To have it in perfection it reqxures a 
quantity of fish not procurable away from the 
Mediterranean ; still a very nice dish can be made 
with pike, whiting, haddock, small turbot, soles, 
gurnet, eels or eel-pout, carp, tench, perch, crawfish, 
and lobsters, using as many of these as you can. 
AV'here rock cod are available they are invaluable, as 
the proper dish is made ia great measure of rock 
lish. The great thing is to have plenty of variety, 
and as fresh as any way possible. Another point to 
consider is the pan in which it is cooked. This 
should be a large but somewhat shallow one, and 
should be made of tin or wrought iron (the 
modern seamless steel would probably be the best), 
to ensure quick cooking, It must be served the 
moment it is ready for it spoils by waiting. To 
make it, put into the pan two larjj-e onions, either 



FOREIGN SOUPS. 107 

sliced or minced, and pour over them a wineglassful 
of best salad oil, and fry till they are lightly coloured ; 
then lay on this the fish, cut into fillets or slices, 
together with a little parsley, a spray or two oi 
garlic finely minced (of this the Proven9al c.ok is 
more liberal than northern tastes would approve), 
a slice or two of lemon without the pips, a tomato 
or two peeled and also freed from seeds, a bay leaf, 
a glass of light French wine, a few peppercorns, and 
salt, if necessary. Cover it all with sufficient fish 
stock (made from the trimmings of the fish, and the 
shells of the lobsters, &c., used for the dish), bving 
it sharply to the boil over a very fierce fire, and 
allow it to boil hard for ten or twelve minutes, 
by which time the stock should be slightly 
thickened and reduced a third part; now add a 
tiny pinch of saffron and a teaspoonf ul of minced 
parsley, and again allow it to boil up sharply 
four or five times. In the meantime cut some 
slices of bread, leaving the ci-ust on them, and soak 
them well in the stock in which the fish was cooked 
(a little more boiling fish stock may be added to 
this, if liked liquid), then serve with the soup in the 
tureen, and the fish apart on a hot dish. The 
lemon, bay leaf, and the garlic, if whole, as is some- 
times the case, must be removed before serving the 
fish. To be made properly the proportions should 
be two parts sea (rock) fish, two parts fresh water 
fish, and one part shell fish, such as lobster, craw, or 
crayfish, Ac. This is a MarseUlaise recipe. 

Bourride, — Have ready some good and rather 
highly seasoned fish stock (jii^ ^viAscL^ '^^\n.Vs«. 



108 SOUPS. 

the bouiUe-a-baisse indicate the component parts of 
this stock and its seasoning), add to tliis some egg 
yolks according to the quantity of stock (say four or 
five to the quart), and stir these into the stock ovei 
the fire without letting it boil, until it thickens ; 
then lift it off the fire, still stirring, and pour it into 
the tureen on to some sliced bread, add a little 
ayoli (sometimes called Proven9al butter), made by 
pounding together some peeled garlic cloves, with 
sufficient oil added drop by drop to bring it all to a 
thick paste about the consistency of stiff butter, 
when you work into it, as you poimd it in the 
mortar, a few drops of tepid water, and a squeeze of 
lemon juice, and serve. 

Clam Chowder Soup. — Gut into pieces forty to 
fifty good clams, and put these into a well-buttered 
ste^^^ pan with five or six onions blanched and 
minced, two to three pounds of potatoes (when they 
are three or four to the pound), peeled and cut into 
dice, a bouqtiet, a tiny blade of mace, a grate of 
nutmeg, salt, cayenne, and white pepper, then pour 
in sufficient fish stock to r.over it all, and boil it up 
sharply ; then stew it for thirty minutes, when you 
remove it from the fire, pour to it a bottle of red 
wine, an ounce or two of white roux (or a handful of 
" crackers," i.e., thickish water biscuits baked till 
crisp), and let it all cook together for a few minutes 
longer, when you lift out the bouquet, stir in a piece 
of fresh butter, and when this is dissolved, serve. 

Clam Soup. — Well wash and rinse a pint of clamfi 
till free from sand ; then strain this rinsing water 
through a very fine napkin to get rid of the sand 



FOREIGN SOUPS 109 

and put the water into a pan with a pound of tinned 
or fresh tomatoes sliced, a peeled and sliced onion, 
a whole red pepper, two teaspoonfuls of salt, and the 
hard parts of the clams cut up small, and stew 
together gently for one hour ; now strain it to half 
a pint of new milk, ^oz. of butter, and 2oz. of finely 
crushed cracker dust, and stir it till it boils ; then 
lay in the soft parts of the clams, set aside for the 
purpose, let these just heat, add more salt and 
pepper if required, and serve. The tinned clams 
can be used for this. A few drops of essence of 
anchovy are a great improvement to this soup. 

Gascon Broth, — Cut two or three cabbages into 
four, blanch and rinse them well, then tie up each 
quarter; now line a jmn with slices of bacon, 
arrange the cabbage on this with some dice of 
bacon, some thin slices of veal or veal trimmings, 
and a few pieces of smoked ham. Cover this again 
with sliced bacon, and on this again lay some cut up 
carrots, onions, and a bunch of herbs, and pour on 
to it some good beef -bone-stock. When quite cooked, 
which it must be very slowly, cut some bread as 
given before for soup, pour enough of the stock 
on to it to soften and swell it, and meanwhile 
take out the cabbages, removing the strings, 
press them a little in a clean cloth, and lay 
them in a casserole that will stand the fire, 
dusting both it and the cabbage pretty thickly with 
grated cheese (equal parts of Parmesan and Gruyere), 
then put on this a layer of the soaked bread, then 
more cabbage and cheese and more bread, till the 
pot is pretty well full, finishvn^ >?iS\Xi^\^c^<2^-^iS3»^^«^ 



110 SOUPS. 

layer of the cabbage, and pour the rest of the stock- 
to it. Set the pan for a few minutes in the oven, 
and then serve at once. 

Gomho, — This is a kind of Creole broth, and is an 
excellent way of using up unproduceable scraps of 
cooked poultry, game, meat, &c. For it, cut up and 
season the meat, and fry it in plenty of oil or butter 
to a light brown ; add boiling water in proportion to 
the meat. Two pounds of any meat and bones, with 
half a pound of ham or smoked bacon, will do for a 
gallon of water, in which it must, after bringing it 
to the boil, be simmered for quite two hours. Then 
lift out the bones, add to it a quai*t of sliced okra ov 
a tin of canned okra (previously heated by immersing 
the unopened tin in boiling water), and let it all boil 
together for five or six minutes. To this soup you 
can add a pint of picked shrimps or prawns, or a 
couple of crabs, a pod or so of red pepper, tomatoes, 
green com, &c., in short, anything you like. It is 
like bouiUe-a-baisse, more a rich stew than a soup. 
A very dainty kind can be made by using a young 
fowl, with a good slice (say 4oz.) of ham, adding to 
this, after frying it all a pretty brown, a quart of 
okras and two quarts of water, and let this all boil 
down to three pints. Ten minutes before serving 
pour into it half a pint of oyster liquor, and then 
add a score or so of oysters, just in time to plump 
these without actually bciling them (which would 
turn them to leather), and serve with plainly boiled 
rice. 

Ham Sovp. — Cut up a pound and a half of fine 
cooked Spanish ham, and pound it in a mortar, 



FOREIGN SOUPS. Ill 

moistening it with a little good first stock ; then add 
to it a good spoonful each of thick Soubise since and 
of Espagnole, and rub the whole through a sieve, 
moistening it as yon do so with the quantity of stock 
required for the soup ; let it all boil up, then add to 
it a gill of Madeira (or sherry), allow it to simmer 
gently for eight or ten minutes, finish it off with 
a little piece of fresh butter, and serve with fried 
croutons, 

Hessian Soup. — Put into a pan two pounds of shin 
of beef cut up, one pint split peas, two onions, four 
carrots, six potatoes, and two heads of celery, all cut 
up, with some whole peppers, salt, and five quarts of 
water ; bring this to the boil, then stew it steadily 
till the liquid is reduced to half, and then either 
serve it as it is, or rub it all through a wire sieve. 

Klodnik. — This is a soup much appreciated in 
Poland at the season when the sturgeon and the cray- 
fish, together with the young cucumbers, are in. 
For it take two good handfuls of the young green 
leaves of the beet, a handful of chives, and one of 
fennel ; well wash and blanch all these separately 
in boiling salted water, wring them dry, mince 
them and place them in a silver pan with a short 
pint of salted cucumber juice and the same quantity 
of kvas (light Eussian beer), and place it all at once 
on ice. Now cut two small fresh cuciimbers and 
one salted one into dice after removing the seeds, 
and place these in an earthenware pan ; trim three or 
four dozen crayfish tails, about three-quarters of a 
pound of cold braised sturgeon also flaked small, 
six hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters and these 



112 SOUPS. 

again into halves, and place these, together, with 
a pinch each of raw minced chives and fennel, 
with the rest. An hour before serving run l^pints 
of thick sour cream through a tammy, and mix it 
with the minced herbs, cucumber juice, kvas, &c., 
and when thoroughly blended add the other ingre- 
dients with at the last some well-washed ice cut into 
pieces the size of a walnut ; taste it all, and when ice- 
cold, serve. This is one of the famous Eussian iced 
soups. 

Minestrone. — ^This is an Italian soup, and really 
means little more than the superlative of minestra or 
broth ; but it is stronger and thicker than the latter. 
For this chop up half a pound of ham, and put it into 
a pan with a savoy coarsely shredded, two or three 
handfuls of white haricot or flageolet beans, and a 
slice of fat ham or bacon ; moisten it all with about 
2i to 3 quarts of stock, and bring it sharply to the 
boil; keep it boiling for ten minutes. Then add 
some young celery roots cut up small, some more 
cabbage (three or four good spoonfuls of the shred 
vegetable) and about the same of haricot beans ; 
again let it aU boil for about ten minutes, then put 
in a couple of smoked Milanese sausages, a handful 
or two each of young broad beans, asparagus points, 
and green peas, and lOoz. of rice, and let it all cook 
till the rice is done, which it should be in rathei 
under a quarter-of-an-hour. At the last stir a good 
ladleful of grated Parmesan into the soup, put the 
vegetables, &c.,into the tureen, and the sausages sliced, 
and pour the soup all on to it and serve. The stock 
for this need onlv be the thinnest of second stock. 



FOREIGN SOUPS. 113 

Pepper Pot. — A West Indian recipe for this runs 
as foUoTPs: — Into an earthen vessel (a marmite 
or casserole), put, for every quart of cold water, three 
tablespoonfuls of pure casseripe (the prepared juice 
of the cassava or manioc), a handful of bird peppers 
(or cayenne), salt to taste, three-quarters of a 
pound of all sorts of vegetables (onions being pre- 
dominant), three-quarters of a pound of all sorts 
of meat cooked or otherwise, veal, fowl, pickled pork, 
beef, mutton, Ac., according to what you have, and 
if liked a little rice ; let it boil up and skim well, 
then when nearly cooked put in the flesh of a lobster 
or a crab, cut up small, and some hard-boiled eggs ; 
remove all the fat that rises, add more pepper or 
cayenne ii needed, and serve in a deep dish. 

More meat and more cassaripe should be added 
daily, the pot being boiled up each day. The natives 
say that this dish is all the better if it has been kept 
going with these replenishments for months, as the 
pot gets seasoned and the whole stew becomes more 
succulent. In the West Indies okras, plantains (or 
bananas), yams <&c., are all added to the dish. A 
fair imitation of this may be produced in England by 
stewing all sorts of meat well covered with cassaripe 
sauce, which can be bought in bottles, adding a few 
vegetables as you like. Treat it exactly as in the 
previous recipe, only remember it is more of a solid 
stew than the original pepper-pot, which is most like 
very thick Scotch broth. 

Puchero. — Put into a fireproof earthenware pot two 
pounds of lean beef, with a set of giblets, 6oz. to 8oz. 
of salt pork (or unsmoked bacon), and three hand- 

I 



114. SOUPS. 

f uls of well soaked garhanzos or chick-peas, moistening 
it all with sufficient water (according as you wish it 
to be Boup or stew), bring it to the boil, skim well. 
and then draw it to the side of the stove. Let it 
simmer steadily for two hours, then add two leeks» 
some chervil, a large carrot, and a clove of garHc, 
together with either a cabbage lettuce, or a good 
chunk of pumpkin peeled and seeded ; at the end of 
another hour put in some of the little pork sausages 
known as chorizosy or another slice or two of highly 
smoked ham, and allow it to simmer forty to fifty 
minutes longer. Have ready some finger-long 
croiitons, and place these in the tureen, strain the 
liquor of the soup on to them, and allow them to 
swell ; meantime set the vegetables on a veiy hot 
dish, with the meat, ham, Ac, on the top, and serve 
all together. A few green, or two or three red 
peppers are a great addition, if added whole and 
stewed in this dish. 

Eussian Nettle Broth, — Blanch five or six good 
handfuls of young green nettles, with a handful 
or so of equally young spinach, drain them well ; 
toss a minced green onion in a little butter, then put 
in the nettles and fry them also ; then rub the whole 
through a sieve. Now pour to it sufficient light 
bone stock, adding about a wineglassful of thickish 
cream to bind it, and serve garnished with quartered 
hard-boiled eggs. 

This is a favourite Eussian spring soup, they 
holding it to bo a most wonderful blood purifier. In 
country places at home, in Scotland especially, nettle 
broth was always used in the spring for the same 



FOREIGN SOUPS. 115 

reason, and made in mucli the same way, using 
mutton broth to moisten it. 

Stchy, — This is the famous Eussian cabbage soup, 
a dish eaten by every class in that coimtry. For it 
the Russians use pretty much the same stock as for 
Bortsch, i.e., that made from beef, fowl, and duck, 
but for ordinary purposes good beef bone stock 
answers very well. Shred dovni a couple of nice 
cabbages and two or three minced onions, and after 
blanching and drying them, toss them in a little 
butter or dripping, or a few slices of not too fat 
bacon, then moisten with a little of the stock, and 
cook in this, adding a little more liquid each time 
that in the pan has evaporated, till the cabbage is 
cooked ; mix in two spoonfuls of flour, and fry this 
also for a few minutes ; adding a little stock gradu- 
ally till you have got the quantity you require. Let 
it all boil up and pour it into the tureen, adding little 
slices and cubes of the meat of which the stock was 
made. A few carrots, leeks, and a little parsley may 
also be braized vdth the cabbage. This is only one 
method (and one of the- simplest), of making this 
soup. 

Sweet Soups. — These are a form of soup seldom if 
ever seen in this country, though abroad they are 
highly appreciated, especially in summer, when they 
are often served iced. Perhaps a few may be 
found acceptable, and at all events would offer a 
little variety on the usual round of nursery sweets. 
It may be observed that many thin kinds of custard 
would, in Germany especially, come under this 
heading, and be eaten with rusks or zwieback, either 

I 2 



lie SOUPS. 

with or without thick cream. Most of the following 
soups would be the better for such additions, even 
when not specified. 

Apple Soup, — Peel, core, and quarter a pound of 
good sound apples, and place them in a pan with 
a quart of water, the grated rind of a lemon, a 
few almonds blanched and pounded, a piece of 
cinnamon, a wineglassful of claret, and sugar to 
taste ; bring this all to the boil, and allow it to stew 
till the apples are quite soft ; then add a little white 
roux or a thickening of potato flour, or ground 
almonds as you choose. Bub it all through a sieve, 
moistening it as you do so with half a pint or so 
of water, in which you have previously boiled the 
cores and peel of the apples (the quantity of this 
must depend on the consistency to which you wish 
to bring your soup). Ee-heat it in the bain 
marie, and serve very hot, sprinkled with powdered 
cinnamon and sugar, handing rusks, or toasted 
sponge cake, with it. 

Beer Soup (German). — Bring two quarts of 
bottled beer to the boil, remove a little of the 
froth, sweeten to taste with brown sugar, add the 
rind of a lemon cut in fine strips free from pith, 
and a little stick cinnamon. Have ready some crisp, 
nicely-toasted bread cut in strips or fingers (or use 
zwieback) ; place these in the tureen, pour the 
scalding soup upon it, and serve. 

Beer Soup (Russian). — Bring two quarts of barley 
beer to the boil, with 6oz. or 7oz. of loaf sugar; 
beat up the yolks of six or eight eggs with a gill of 
sour cream, strain these into a large hot basin. 



FOREIGN SOUPS. 117 

work to them gradually the boiling beer, and serve 
very hot. 

Chocolate Soup, — Put into a pan 2oz. or 3oz. of best 
chocolate, grated or powdered, together with a stick 
of cinnamon or vanilla, as you choose ; pour on to it 
a quart of new milk, sweeten to taste, bring it all to 
the boil, and let it cook till the chocolate is all 
melted and the whole is smooth; meantime, whip 
the yolks of four or five eggs to a stiff froth, draw 
the soup to the side of the stove, and when it has 
cooled for a few minutes work in the eggs sharply, 
and x)Our the hot soup at once into a tureen, in 
which you have already placed some nice sweetened 
coffee rusks. 

Chocolate Soup (ATocJc). — Brown 2oz. of fine sifted 
flour in the oven till of a rich chocolate brown (be 
careful it does not catch or bum), then put it into 
a pan with a tablespoonful of sugar, a clove or two, 
and a piece of vanilla or cinnamon stick; pour to 
this a pint of new milk, boiling, then stir it all 
steadily tiU it re-boils, being careful it does not get 
lumpy, add irt egg yolk as in preceding recipe 
and serve very hot. Beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, with a little caster sugar, and 
drop spoonfuls of this on to the boiling soup a 
minute or two before serving it. This garnish may 
also be added to the preceding soup. Use vanilla 
sugar with the egg whites. 

Claret Soup, Iced. — Boil 2oz. of sago in a pint of 
water till quite thick, like mucilage, then add to it a 
bottle of claret, two spoonfuls of sugar, and a little 
grated nutmeg. Stir it all well together, then strain 



ai8 SOUPS. 

it, and set it on ice or in a cold place till ice cold. 
(This is a Panish dish.) 

Banish Cream Soup, — To a pint and a-half of 
white wine add the yolks of four eggs, the strained 
juice of a lemon, half the peel grated (or rub off 
the yellow part of the rind on the sugar), and sugar 
to taste 5 stir it all over a slow fire till it all but boils. 
It will be thick like custard, and should be garnished 
with balls of egg white as in the chocolate soup, or 
little puffs of whipped cream. Serve toasted sponge 
cake with it. 

Marsala Soup. — Put into a pan a qiiart of 
Marsala and half that quantity of water, and boil 
it all up together with a piece of stick cinnamon 
and sugar to taste. Cut some stale sponge cakes 
into fingers, roll these in sugar and set in the oven 
tni the sugar spreads on them. Dra^* the pan of 
soup to the side of the stove, let it cool for a minute 
or two, then stir to it the yolks of lour eggs, stir it all 
till it thickens lightly, then pour it into a tureen on 
the baked cake. (This is a favourite German soup.) 

Bodegrod. — ^Draw the juice from a quart each of 
raspberries (or strawberries) and red ciurants in a 
jar in the oven, with half a pint of water, and when 
it is all extracted, strain it into an earthenware pan 
and bring it to. the boil; (if flavoured with stick 
cinnamon, or vanilla, whole almonds, sweet and 
bitter, &c., let them boil up with it, but if essence 
is to be used do not add it till the last.) When 
well boiled up add to it three tablespoonfuls of 
ground rice or fine sago, and boil for twenty minutes, 
stirring it constantly, sweetening it just at the last 



FOREIGN SOUPS. 119 

as you lift it off the fire, and adding the flavouring, 
if essence is used, then. It is difficult to give the 
proper proportions of liquid, as it depends greatly 
on the fruit. The dish should he as thick as thin 
custard, unless you serve it as a pudding, when 
it should be allowed to thicken up weU. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

Sweet Milk Soup. — Of this there is a great variety, 
though perhaps the commonest form is this : beat up 
the yolks of two fresh eggs in about three pints of 
new milk, then stir this gradually on to a full table- 
spoonful of fine sifted flour, and stir over the fire, 
but without boiling, till it is all perfectly smooth 
and well blended. Now add to it a piece of thinly 
pared lemon peel, or one or two peach leaves, a salt- 
spoonful of salt, and sugar to taste, and again stir it 
all over the fire till just on the point of boiling, 
when you at once pour it into the well scalded 
tureen, adding to it as you do so spoonfuls 
of the egg white beaten to a meringue with 
a little caster sugar, and dusted with powdered 
cinnamon. 

This soup may be varied by the flavourings, or the 
eggs may be omitted, and the soup thickened with 
sweet and bitter almonds (loz. of the last to 4oz. of 
the former), pounded to a smooth paste, with a little 
milk to prevent their oiling, when they are worked 
into the boQing soup, and well blended with it, only 
remembering that after the almonds are added the 
soup must not boil again. Have some little rounds 
of fried bread lightly sifted over with vanilla or 
cinnamon sugar, and glazed, either in the oven or 



120 SOUPS. 

with a salamander, place these in the tureen, JEind 
pour the soup on to them. 

Sweet Bice Soup, — Wash, drain, and dry well 
about 6oz. of rice, then stew it very gently in three 
pints of milk till perfectly tender, for half an hotir ; 
now add 6oz. to 8oz. loaf sugar, and again stew for a 
little, when you pour it into soup plates, shaking 
these gently to get an even surface, strew on the 
l^p freshly pounded cinnamon, or grated chocolate, 
and serve icy cold, with, or without, cream, or a fruit 
comp6te. This is a Portuguese dish, and the great 
art is to get it soft and semi-Hquid without being 
sloppy. Like so many of these sweet soups this 
is almost a pudding. 

Sweet Sago Soup, — ^Boil 6oz. or 7oz. of sago in 
water for a few minutes, then change the water, add 
more fresh and boiling, with a grain of salt, and 
sugar to taste, and let the sago cook till done. Now 
heat rather less than three pints of claret to boiling 
point, and pour it on to the sago, off the fire, and 
serve, without returning it to the fire. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

ODDS AND ENDS. 

The only points remaining with reference to soups 
appear to be a few words on the subject of garnishes, 
together with some simple directions for soups and 
broths for sick room use. 

To begin with the garnishes. This is the tech- 
nical name for anj addition made to the soup after 
it is finished, and just before sending it to table. 
Of the commonest forms, the pluchej or spoonful or 
two of herbs such as chervil, parsley, tarragon, &c., 
picked (or epluche) into tiny sprays (always used raw), 
and the crouton, both savoury and sweet, full descrip- 
tions have already been given. It may be added that 
it is far nicer to have the croutons crisped in the 
oven, in a buttered baking dish, after carefully soak- 
ing them in stock from which the fat has not been 
removed, than to fry them ; but if the latter is the 
necessary method, be careful to have the butter, or 
dripping, used for the frying most carefully clarified, 
or the croutons will not fry a nice, even, gold colour, 
which is the mark of perfection. Scraps of puff 
pastry, whether plain, or seasoned with cayenne, 
grated cheese, or essence of anchovy, make most 
excellent little croutons, whether fried or baked. 



122 SOUPS. 

Another satisfactory garniture can be made by 
rolling out this pastry very thin, stamping it out in 
rounds, and placing on half of these a little heap of 
any nice farce, whether meat or fish, or little cubes 
of cheese custard, or of plain Gruyere cheese 
previously marinaded in a little oil, covering this 
with the rest of the rounds, pinching the edges well 
together, and dropping these little rissoles into 
boiling fat for a few minutes till of a golden brown, 
draining them carefully (they will make the soup 
disagreeably greasy if this is omitted), and lightly 
dusting them with coralline pepper and minced 
parsley before sending them to table. 

Next to croutons comes the royale, or soup custard. 
This is very easily made. Season a whole egg to 
taste with pepper and salt, and mix with it a table- 
spoonful of either cream or strong stock ; strain this 
and pour it into any small mould, stand this in a 
pan on a piece of folded paper (this is to prevent 
the bottom hardening and becoming leathery), and 
pour sufficient boiling water into the pan to reach 
three-parts up the mould; cover with a buttered 
paper, and steam till firm. Let it stand till cold, 
then turn it out, and cut it into cubes, rounds, 
slices, &c., as you please ; rinse well in warm water 
before using these. Be sure the custard does not « 
boil whilst cooking in this way, or it will curdle, and 
become watery and fuU of holes. If required (as 
for some of the soups before mentioned), to bo 
coloured, make them with cream, colouring this red, 
green, &c., as needed with a little vegetable colouring. 
(But it can never be too frequently repeated that 



ODDS AND ENDS. ISH 

colouring bottles are, like cruet sauces, a gres^X 
danger to the inexperienced, for nothing betrays the 
inexperienced, or fifth-rate cook, so much as the 
abuse of either of these.) Young peas, or the green 
tops of asparagus, which are used for a garnish, are 
put into boiling water with a little salt, and gently 
cooked for twelve to fifteen minutes, according to 
size and tenderness. 

For vegetable garnish, such as julienne, &c., peel 
and cut the vegetables into inch lengths, then split 
these into tiny sticks, cubes, or threads, according to 
the use to be made of them ; blanch each kind 
separately, by putting them on in cold water enough 
to cover them, bring this to the bail, and at once 
drain it off, return the blanched vegetables to their 
respective pans, cover with a little salted boiling 
water, or thin stock, and cook them till. tender, when 
they are again strained, tossed for a minute, in hot 
butter, and then used. The recipe for cooking 
macaroni has already (like that for rice) been given 
in the previous chapters. Macaroni makes a capital 
and easily prepared garnish, whether left in two- 
inch long pipes, or sliced down into little rounds ; 
or whether any of the various sorts of soup macaroni, 
made in the most wonderful little figures, be used or 
not. Macaroni when used as a garnish in England, 
is generally rinsed before adding it to the soup to 
avoid the cloudiness it often causes, but unless the 
soup be the finest consomm^, it is better to put the 
macaroni in as it stands, and serve with grated 
cheese handed with it. The slight haze macaroni 
thus served gives to the soup, is abroad, looked on 



124 SOCJPS. 

as a specialitc of the potage aux pates d^Italie, Beef 
marrow is used as a garnish for some soups, and it 
may be mentioned that for invalids, where allowed, 
it is excellent. Split the bone and lift out the 
marrow ; throw it into lightly salted cold water, 
bring this to the boil, then at once drain o^ and 
throw it into cold water till needed. This, added to 
strong clear consomme, is most nourishing. 

All the above can be prepared by the plainest of 
plain cooks, provided she will take a little pains. 
The following, however, need a little (not much) 




Fig. 7, 

more skill. The farce for quenelles is made in 
various ways. For instance, take 6oz. of raw 
chicken, veal, or rabbit, 3oz. of panade, one table- 
spoonful of thick bechamel sauce, ^-oz. of butter, 
and one largo e^^, with coralline pepper and salt to 
taste. (If liked, a little chopped tongue, truffle, or 
pate de foie gras may be added to this mixture.) 
Pound the meat sepaititely till smooth, then pound 
with the panade till they are thoroughly incor- 
pomted, when you rub it through a sieve and 
work into it a tablespoonful of cream; shape it 
with two spoons as in the illustration, Fig. 8, 



ODDS AND ENDS. 125 

and then x>oacli it in a buttered saucepan in a little 
boiling water or stock. Another way, when you 
wish for slices of quenelle meat, is to put the 
mixture into a forcing bag with a plain pipe, and 
force it out in a long sort of stick, as in Fig. 7. 
This is poached as before, left in cold water till 
wanted, and when cold sliced as required. A third 
way is to break up the quenelle farce when ready, 
into small pea-sized shapes, and then roll these 
lightly into balls with your well-floured hands; 
but this requires great lightness and quickness of 
hand, or the quenelles will become stodgy. For fish 
farce pound first separately, and then together, 3oz. 
each of any nice white fish, and panade; now add a 
pinch of salt, a dust of coralline pepper, a saltspoon- 
ful of essence of anchovy, and one large or two small 
eggs ; mix, rub it all through a sieve and use like the 
other quenelle mixtures. Quenelle mixtures can be 
made by these recipes from almost any kind of meat. 
By-the-bye, herb farce halls, a favourite garnish for 
hare soup, either clear or thick, are made by. 
taking little lumps of hare or veal stuffing, rolling 
these in flour, and then finishing them with 
one's hands as described above for the pea- shaped 
quenelles. These are then either poached or fried, as 
you please. 

After the quenelles come profUeroles, a variation 
of the little creara -filled choux so dear to children. 
For these put ^pint of cold water into a pan with 
2oz. of butter, a pinch of salt and a dust of coralline 
pepper ; let this all come to the boil, then sprinkle 
in 2loz. of fine flour, and mix it well over the fire. 



156 SOUPS. 

working it sharplv all the time till it becomes Teiy 
smooth and does not stick to your pan ; then work 
in when it is a little cooled, one by one, two small 
eggs, and an ounce of grated Parmesan, with a good 
dust of coralline pepper, and work it till it will 
slowly slide back from the spoon leaving the latter 
quite clear, and becomes a firm elastic paste. ISTow 
put it on a well-floured board and break off little 
pieces, either rolling them into tiny balls, or leaving 
them in little rocky lumps, as you please, brush them 
over lightly with egg yolk beaten up with a little 
water, and leave them for twelve or fifteen minutes 
to stand on a well-floured baking-sheet ; then bake 
them in a slow oven till of a nice golden colour. 
These little balls can also if liked, be fried in clean 
hot fat, and tv^ell drained before being added to the 
soup. Or you can wrap little pieces of gruyire, 
previously marinaded in a little salad oil and well 
dusted with coralline pepper, in tiny rounds of this 
paste, and fry as before. Be sure and have them 
very small. 

Lastly, there is nouille or nudel paste. For this 
work half a pound of fine flour to a stiff smooth paste 
with three or four raw egg yolks, a saltspoonful of 
salt and a dust of coralline pepper, with only just 
enough cold water to bring it to the right consistency. 
EoU this out very thin, and use in many ways; 
for instance, cut it in strips \m, wide by 2in. long, 
cook for twenty to twenty-five minutes in enough 
boiling milk and water or weak stock to cover them, 
then drain well, and place in the tureen and pour 
the boiling soup upon them. Or they can be used 



ODDS AND ENDS. 127 

as tiny rissoles as recommended for tlie cheese paste 
or tlie profiterole paste. 

Lastly, to conclude as I began, it cannot be too 
strongly impressed on the inexperienced cook to 
practice due modesty in every form of her garnish 
and flavouring. Wine is a very good thing in its 
way, but when you take soup you wish it to taste of 
the substance from which it takes its name, not to 
have your mouth and throat burned by the fiery 
compound so many cooks (aye, and mistresses too), 
believe in as " cooking sherry." If you use wine at 
all, it must be good, and quite as sound as the wine 
you place before your guests to drink. You need not 
put vintage port, or your finest Amontillado into the 
hare soup, or the consonmK^, but neither ought you to 
countenance the economy (?) which sends the corked 
bottles or the drainings of the long-opened claret 
decanters to the kitchen for culinary use. 

Excellent and sound wine, both red and white, 
can be bought at a price that compares favourably 
vnth the cooking sherry aforesaid, and will be in 
keeping with its constituent parts, without endan- 
gering the digestion of your guests. Again, lock 
the cruet stand out of your cook's reach if you 
intend to have proper, unadulterated soup. That 
dear, good woman can never be taught the relative 
strength of Worcester, Harvey, or Soy sauce, and 
having spoiled her stock by careless cooking, is 
quite proud of herself when she has, as she phrases 
it, " brought up " the flavour and colour of her soup 
by a copious admixture of these (in such conditions) 
deleterious condiments ; and lastly remember that 



128 SOUPS. 

m no case should a soup be artificiallj coloured. 
Sue colorant, pastilles de legumes, &c., are all very 
well in their way, perhaps, but no self-respecting 
cook would use them, betraying as they do the 
carelessness and ignorance which has spoilt the tint 
and the flavour of her stock in the first place. By 
careful frying, with the addition of a little brown 
sugar to the vegetables, &c. in the initial prepara- 
tion, stock can be brought up to any shade required 
with perfect ease and no additions. A cook who 
cannot produce soup without these aids (?) is simply 
incapable of making soup at all, and the sooner she 
sets to work and learns the proper method, the 
better both for herself and her employers. 

A word or two with reference to sick-room soups, 
and I have done. 

Foremost amongst sick-room necessaries is beef 
tea, that stand-bye of every nurse, even to this day, 
when we have at last learned that it is far more of 
a stimulant than a food. Yet there are very few 
people who really know how it should be prepared. 
The following recipes have at all events the merits 
of much using to recommend tbem, having been 
successfully tried over and over again. First, heej 
tea pure and simple. 

Take a pound of good beef steak, and free it from 
every particle of fat, sinew, &c., and then mince it 
as fine as possible ; put this mince into a delicately 
clean saucepan, with a tight-fitting lid, together 
with two or three peppercorns, and a pint and a half 
of cold water; bring it all slowly to the boil, then 
let it simmer steadily for an hour, after which it 



ODDS AND ENDS. 129 

must be strained, and when cold carefully freed 
from the smallest particle of fat (the plan of using 
clean paper to remove the fat is most to be recom- 
mended for this purpose) . It can then be re-heated 
as wanted, and will be found light and appetising, 
sent to table with fingers of delicately made toast. 
If you wish to add to the value of your beef tea, use 
stock made from beef bones (but no vegetables 
without the doctor's orders), carefully strained 
and freed from fat, instead of the cold water. 
Abroad a handful of rice is, when allowed, cooked 
with beef tea, and adds much to its nutritive 
powers. 

Beef Tea in Haste. — If in a hurry, beef tea can 
be made thus : Scrape with a blunt knife all the 
pulp from 4oz. to 6oz. of raw lean steak, and pour a 
gill of cold water on to this pulp ; let it steep for 
ten or twelve minutes, then bring it slowly to the 
boil, over a gentle fire, and continue to simmer it 
steadily, but quietly, for fifteen minutes ; now strain 
it well, remove the fat with a bit of paper, add a 
little salt, and send up with strips of dry toast. 

Cut a pound of good lean beef up small, 

and place it in a jar with a tight-fitting coven 
add to it a small pinch of salt, and three- 
quarters of a pint of cold water ; close the jar 
down tightly and set it in the oven, and in an hour 
you will have a good cupful of beef tea. The beef 
will stand a second supply of water, but the result 
will of course not be so strong as in the first case. 
But remember, though you may add a second lot of 
water, you must never add fresh meat to it. 



130 SOUPS. 

Essence of Beef. — For this scrape the beef as 
before, quite free from all fat, skin, or fibre, and 
place this pulp in a jar, standing the latter either in 
the bain-marie, or in another pan three parts its 
deptn fvH of boiling water ; add a pinch of salt to 
the meat and let it stand in the bain-marie till aU its 
juice is extracted. Put no water with it. 

Essence of Meat. — Take equal parts of veal and 
beef, carefully freed from the slightest particle of fat 
or siaew, and put it in a jar without any water, and 
a little salt, if allowed ; cover it down very closely 
and let it stand on the hot plate and simmer (not 
Loil) for four or five hours, till every drop of juice is 
extracted from the meat, then skim off the fat very 
carefully. A s230onful of this juice is sufficient at a 
time, as it is veri/ strong. N.B. — Use two or 
three pounds of each kind of meat, for it takes a 
good bit to produce a fair amount of meat juice. 

Baw Beef Tea. — (This is invaluable in cases of 
extreme exhaustion, as in typhoid fever.) Scrape 
an ounce of lean beef to a pulp, then pour to it a 
good tablespoonful of cold water, cover the cup, and 
let the mixture stand for twelve or fifteen minutes. 
Give this in teaspoonfuls, being careful not to let 
the patient see it, as its appearance is not appetising. 
This is better made in the quantities given above, 
as it should be given fresh. 

Chicken Broth. — Remove the fillets from a weU 
cleansed fowl (these can be used for other purposes), 
and break or chop the rest of the carcase small, 
carefully rinsing any portions that are not perfectly 
clean, and remove any fat, though the skin can 



Odds akd ends. i3l 

be left. The well- washed and scraped giblets should 
be added to the carcase. Place all this in a rather 
deep pan, add a little s9.It, and cover it all well with 
cold water. Put the lid on the pan, and bring the 
stock to the boil, sMmming it carefully as long as 
any scum rises, then when it looks quit« clear allow 
it to simmer steadily but slowly for four or five 
hours, till all the goodness is extracted. Now strain 
through a clean fine napkin, and put it aside till 
cold, when the fat must be entirely removed. It 
can be served as it is now, with (if allowed) a little 
minced parsley scattered in it ; or it may be thickened 
with a little arrowroot (rubbed smooth in a little 
cold water, then boiled in the soup for ten minutes), 
or tapioca (bring the stock to the boil, sprinkle in a 
little tapioca, and cook it all for ten minutes, or till 
the tapioca looks clear), or, if liked, a little rice can 
be boiled till tender in the soup. K liked, some 
shreds of the chicken may be taken from the 
carcase and heated in the soup for a few minutes 
before serving. This is a nice addition when rice is 
used. Essence of chicken can be made precisely like 
essence of beef, and, like it, will take from five to six 
or seven hours to make. 

Lastly, there is a wonderful restorative broth 
(originally derived from a French source), which 
like many other of the preceding recipes, has been 
given in the columns of The Queen. 

Slice some onions into ^in. sHces, and line the 
bottom of a three-quart stewpan with a layer of 
these slices, fitting them closely, but never permitting 
them to overlap ; on this place a layer of fat baccut 

& i 



132 souths. 

scrupulously freed from rind, rust, «fcc; on this a 
layer of carrot, put in exactly as the sliced onion was. 
On the top of this place two pounds of good beef 
steak, freed from fat, skin, gristle, <fec., and cut into 
cubes the size of a hazel nut. Season all this with 
three or four sprays of parsley and one of thyme 
both very finely minced, a small handful of salt (be 
careful with this as more salt can always be added 
if required), about the same of whole peppers, and 
two or three cloves. Lastly, pack in a calf's foot, 
well cleansed, and broken into small pieces, press the 
whole down as closely and firmly as you can, and put 
on the lid, weighting it into position. Set the pot on 
a clear smokeless fire, seeing that no flames rise up 
the sides of the pan (a gas ring is really the best for 
this purpose), and let it cook steadily for ten minutes, 
when it should give out a strong rich smell ; still 
leave it on the fire, and in another ten minutes or so, 
it will smell as if it were burning. At this point 
pour in quickly, enough absolutely boiling water to 
cover the calf s foot to quite half an inch in depth, 
re-cover the pan and allow it all to cook steadily for 
twenty minutes or so longer. Then strain it into an 
earthenware basin, and leave it till it has jellied, 
when all the fat can be removed. It will be a not 
very stiff jelly, of a bright, clear, sherry colour. Use 
hot or cold. 

If the pot with the meat &c., is again filled up to 
the top with boiling water, it will, if cooked steadily 
for two or three hours, yield another quart of excellent 
stock, though naturally not so strong as the first 
Drew. 



Obbs Aifb fiNbS. \SS 

One word in conclusion. When cooking for 
invalids, do not make the mistake of attempting to 
use inferior meat, or of " saving trouble." If any good 
is to be done, the sick-room attendant must give of 
her very best, both in material and in work, and the 
success of her efforts will once more show the truth 
of the old saw that " the longest way round is often 
the shortest road home ! " Emphatically is this the 
case with the restorative mixture above given, as 
from long experience I know that only strict ad- 
herence to every detail, however apparently unim- 
portant, will produce the desired result, which, if 
properly made, is about the strongest restorative 
mixture to be found in the nurse's list. 



/ i 



INDEX. 



j> 



)> 



Dbef marrow, to cook, 12 L 
tea, 128. 
„ in haste, 120. 
„ „ raw, 180. 
Bisque, 13, 82, 37. 
Bouquet garni, 12. 
Bread for soup, 38, G4. 

,, qu'n lies, 20. 
Broths — 

To make, 3, Gl, 8:». 
Barley (Scotch), 8o. 
Bread, 87. 
Broohau, 87. 

Chicken (sickroom), 130. 
Cock-a-leekie, 89. 
Colbert (chiory), 90. 
Ccttage, 89. 
Curry, 90. 

,, and rice 91. 
Fish (French), 91. 
„ (Scotch), 92. 
Friar's chicken, 92. 
Garbure grating, 92. 
Green pea, 93. 

„ „ (tinned), 94. 
Hotch-potch (aummer), 
94. 



Booths (Continued) — 

Hotch-potoh (winter), 95. 
Irish broth, 96. 
Julienne gras, 96. 

„ maigre, 96. 
" Kail " Scotch, 97. 
Leek, 97. 
Livonian, 98. 
Meg Merrilies, 98. 
Potato, 99. 
Oxcheek, 99. 
St. Marceau, 100. 
Sheep's head, 100. 
Soup kitchen, 101. 

CoNriOMMES — 

To make, 2, 5, 11. 
A I'Alexandra, 23. 
„ I'Andalouse, 24. 

aux abatis, 66. 
,, la Bavi^re, 24. 

bourgeoise, 17. 

Braban9onne, 24. 

Brunoise, 24. 

C^lestine, 24. 

Chasseur, 24. 

Chiifonade, 24. 
„ „ Christine, 24t 



it 



» »» 



» »» 



» ■» 



>t 



)t 



1^6 



SOUPS. 



Consommes (Continued) — 
A la Ohristophe Oolomb, 

24. 
„ „ Clermont, 24. 
„ „ Cock-a-leekie, 24. 
„ „ Colbert, 24. 
ff „ Condorcet, 25. 
„ „ Cr^oi, 25. 
„ „ CroiVe-au-pot, 25. 
„ „ Cussy, 25. 
„ „ D'Artcris, 25. 
„ „ D'Esclignab, 25. 
„ „ D'Orldans, 25. 
„ „ D'Orsay, 25. 
„ „ Due de Norfolk, 26. 
„ » », „ York, 26. 
,y „ Duchesse, 25. 
„ „ Dufferin, 26. 
yy ,y Dastan, 26. 
„ „ Permifere, 17. 
„ „ Fleury, 26. 
„ „ Florentin, 26. 
„ „ Fran^aise, 26. 
„ „ Garbure, 26. 
Gervaise, 26. 
„ Grand duchesse, 26. 
„ „ Hongroise, 27. 
„ „ Imperatrice, 27. 
„ „ Imp^riale, 27. 
„ „ Indienne, 27. 
„ „ Innocent, 27. 
,, „ Jardiniere, 27. 
„ ,f Jerusalem, 27. 
„ „ Julienne, 27, 30. 
„ „ Klondyke, 27. 
„ „ Kursel, 28. 
„ „ I^Ue, 28. 



>» »* 



» 



Consommes (Continued) — 
A la Marie-Louise, 28. 
„ „ Massena, 28. 
„ „ Montglas, 28. 
„ „ Mulligatawny, 73. 
„ „ Napoleon, 2S. 
Napolitaioe, 28 



t» ft 



ft >f 



»» 



n 



Nivernaise, 28. 

„ „ Palestine, 27. 

„ „ Parmentier, 28. 

„ „ Paysanne, 17. 

„ „ Petite marmite, 28. 

,. ,, Poissonifere, 28. 
„ Pompadour, 29. 
„ Portugai^e, 29. 

„ „ Prince, 29. 

„ ,, ,, de Galles, 21 j 

„ „ Princease, 29. 

., „ Printanifero. 29. 

„ „ Printani^re k la 
Eoyale, 29. 

„ „ Rachel, 29. 

„ ,, R^gence, 29. 

,, „ Romaine, 29. 

„ „ Rosi^re, 29. 

„ ,, Royale, 29. 

„ „ Rupse, 30. 

„ „ Sarah Bernhardt,30. 

„ „ Sevi^ne, 30. 

„ „ Tolede, 30. 

„ „ Trieste, 30. 

„ „ Trois racines, 30. 

„ „ Tortu, 83. 

„ „ Valette, 30. 

„ „ Xavicr, 30. 
Crimes, 33. 40, 42. 
Croutons, 19, 121, 



INDEX. 



137 



Egg balls, 70. 
Essenoe of beef, 130. 

„ „ chicken, 130. 

„ „ meat, 130. 
Fat. to remove, 75. 
Fish stock, 12. 
Garnishes, 18, 21, 121. 
Grand Bouillon, 5. 
Herb farce balls, 125. 
Julienne, 30, 97. 
Liaisons, 3, 34, 38, 40, 49, 

63, 76. 
Lobster butter, 45. 
Oatmeal, 87. 
Panade, 20. 
Partridge and mushroom 

pur^e, 35. 
Pea soup, 87. 
Pluche, 17, 78, 121. 
Pot au feu, 5, 9. 
Profiteroles, 125. 
Purees — 

To make,3, 31, 39, 61, 03. 

Of asparagus, 43. 
„ „ ^ la Com- 

tesse, 44. 

bisque of crayfish, 44. 
„ of lobster, Castii- 
lane, 45. 

bisque of oysters, 46. 

Cel^ri h TEspagnole, 46. 

of chestnuts, 46. 

Clavel (Partridge S.), 47 

Conde (Bean S.), 47. 

Conti (Lentil S.), 48. 

Cr^ci, 49. 

Or^me au celeri, 40. 



Purees {Continued) — 

Cr^me Cr^ci k TAIle* 
mande, 49. 
„ aux navets, 50. 
„ d'orge, 50. 
„ k Toseille, 48. 
„ Parmentier, 51. 
„ au riz, 52. 
Dubarry (Cauliflower), 52 
Faubonne (mixed yege- 

tables), 53. 
Grenade (Leeks), 53. 
De li^vre, 54. 
Mathilde (Cucumber), 54. 
Palestine, 55. 
Parmentier aux tomates, 

55. 
de pois verts, &6. 
» .* >t (4ried), 37. 
» »> ti k TAUe- 

mande, 57. 
k la reine, 32, 33. 
„ „ „ Caroline, 57. 
„ „ „ Margot, 58. 
Soubise (onion), 58. 
aux tomates, 59. 
„ „ e t aux 

navets, 59. 
Velours, 60. 
Quenelles, 20, 124. 

„ bread, 20. 
Restorative soup, 131. 
Bevalenta Arabica, 39. 
Bice, to cook, 72. 
Roux, 64, 77. 
Royale, 21, 122. 
Scum, and skimming, $• 



138 



SOUPS. 



SioTing and tammy ing,9,3 5,3 6 . 
Soup, to olarify, 7. 
Soup meat, to oook, 5. 
Soups, Fosbign — 

Beetroot, 103. 

Bird's nest soup, 103. 

Bouille-k-baisse, 106. 

Bourride, 107. 

Bortsoh, 104. 

Clam chowder, 108. 

Clam, 108. 

Gascon broth, 109. 

Gombo, 110. 

Ham, 110. 

Hessian, 111. 

Klodnik (iced), 111. 

Minestrone, 112. 

Pepperpot, 113. 

Puchero, 113. 

Bussian nettle, 114. 

Tschy (Cabbage), 115. 
Soups, Sweet — 

Apple, 116. 

Beer (German), 11 C. 
„ (Bussian), 116. 

Chocolate, 117. 

„ (mock), 117. 

Claret (iced), 117. 

Danish cream, 118. 

Marsala, 118. 

B5dgrr5d, 118. 

Sweet milk, 119. 
M rice, 120. 
„ sago, 120. 
Soups, Thickened— 

Brown, or gravy, 64. 

(^n^^keeper's, 65. 



Soups, Thickened (Conid,) 
Giblet, 65. 
Hare, 66. 
Kidney, 69. 
Mock turtle, 69. 
Mulligatawny, 70. 

„ (maigre), 74. 
Ox-tail (thick), 74. 
„ (clear), 75. 
Potage bonne femme, 75. 
„ bonrgeoise, 77. 
„ Cam^lia. 77. 
„ Creole, 78. 
„ tlise, 78. 
„ Jacqueline, 79. 
Mancelle (chest- 
nuts), 79. 
k la m^nag^re, 79. 
de navets an 
sagou, 80. 
,, Napolitain, 81. 
„ Nfmoise, 81. 
„ p&tes d'ltalie, 81. 
„ Portugaise, 81. 
„ Queue de boeaf, 
krindienne, 73. 
„ Tomates, 82. 
„ Tortue, 82. 
Stock, to make, 2, 4, 88. 
„ fish, 12. 
„ second, 4. 
„ vegetable, 13, 14. 
„ white, 11. 
„ pot, 14, 15. 
Tammying, 36. 

Vegetables for soup, 6, 41, 123 
Wine, 23, 127, 



It 



it 



>i 



APPOINT MEN" 



T. K. BELLIS'S 

REAL TURTLE SOUP AND JELLY. 




FOR INVALIDS TRAVELLERS, DINNER, SUPPER 
PARTIES. AND LIINCHFONS. 



REFUSE ALL SUeSTlTUTES, 

EisHy Oigcslcd, Suslninins, .Nuurislling, ond Ihe 
ncsl lonl lor rnvalidt. 

RECO««E«DE0 BT THE LEUIIG PHIStCIUS. 



TURTLE SOUR, 

n aUM FlKM. 7^: Tint. I,i. 



TUR1U JIU.T. 
:«|NrBMIte. 



T. K. BELLIS, 

15 (tept d'. BURY STREET, ST. MAaV AXE. E.C 



jFi't.ir^tJox. 



