OUR BODIES AND HOW 
WE LIVE 



AN ELEMENTARY TEXT- BOOK OF 

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

FOR USE IN SCHOOLS 



BY 



ALBERT F. BLAISDELL, M.D. 

AUTHOR OF "CHILD'S BOOK OF HEALTH," "How TO KEEP \\EIL,' 
"LIFE AND HEALTH," "PRACTICAL PHYSIOLOGY," ETC., ETC 



REVISED EDITION 




GINN & COMPANY 

BOSTON NEW YORK . CHICAGO . LONDON 



BLAISDELL'S 
SERIES OF PHYSIOLOGIES 

By ALBERT F. BLAISDELL, M.D. 



CHILD'S BOOK OF HEALTH 

REVISED EDITION. In easy lessons for primary 
grades. List price, 30 cents. 

HOW TO KEEP WELL 

REVISED EDITION. A text-book on health for 
the lower grades. List price, 45 cents. 

OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

REVISED EDITION. An elementary text-book 
on physiology and hygiene for use in schools. List 
price, 65 cents. 

LIFE AND HEALTH 

A text-book on physiology and hygiene for high 
schools, academies, and normal schools. List price, 
90 cents. 

PRACTICAL PHYSIOLOGY 

A text-book for higher schools. List price, $1.10. 

How TO TEACH PHYSIOLOGY 

A handbook for teachers. List price, 10 cents. 



GINN & COMPANY Publishers 



ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL 



COPYRIGHT, 1884, 1892 
BY LEE AND SHEPARD 



COPYRIGHT, 1893, 1904 
BY ALBERT F. BLAISDELL 



ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 

28.7 



PREFACE TO REVISED EDITION 



It is now twenty years since this book was first pub- 
lished and ten years since it was revised and reprinted. 
Meanwhile many important discoveries have been made 
concerning the nature and propagation of bacteria, and 
many changes have taken place in the attitude of scien- 
tific men towards the causes and restrictions of contagious 
diseases and the promotion of personal and public health. 

The author has taken advantage of the demand for 
another revision to rewrite, rearrange, and illustrate this 
book in accord with the latest teachings in this branch 
of science. 

In this edition, as in previous editions, it has been the 
aim of the author to prepare a text-book for elementary 
schools which should set forth clearly and tersely the more 
important and interesting facts about our bodily life. 

It is believed that boys and girls in elementary schools 
should have an opportunity to learn a few essential things 
about the anatomy and physiology of their own bodies. 
These facts in themselves are of comparatively little worth 
unless they become the means of enabling our young folks 
to understand thoroughly the simple laws of health and to 
apply them intelligently to their daily living. With this 
in mind, the author has aimed to lay marked emphasis 

iii 



iv PREFACE TO REVISED EDITION 

in each chapter on such points as bear directly upon 
personal health. 

In this book, as in the other books of this series of 
school physiologies, there has been added to the text a 
number of carefully graded and practical experiments suffi- 
ciently varied to allow a wide range of choice. For the most 
part they are simple and can be performed with apparatus 
that is inexpensive and easily obtained. 

This book complies fully with the laws of those states 
which require in their public schools the study of the 
nature and effect of alcohol, tobacco, and other narcotics 
upon the human system. 

The author would acknowledge his indebtedness to Dr. 
Margaret B. Wilson of the New York Normal College for 
careful criticism of his manuscript and for valuable assist- 
ance and suggestions in reading the proofs, and also to 
Professor H. W. Conn of Wesleyan University for the use 
of a number of illustrations from his work on bacteria, 
recently issued by the publishers of this book. 

A. F. BLAISDELL 
WINCHESTER, MASS. 
March, 1904 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER I 
INTRODUCTION i 



CHAPTER IT 
THE BONY FRAMEWORK 16 

CHAPTER III 
THE MUSCLES AND HOW TO USE THEM 44 

CHAPTER IV 
FOOD AND DRINK 69 

CHAPTER V 
ORIGIN AND NATURE OF FERMENTED DRINKS 80 

CHAPTER VI 
THE DIGESTION OF FOOD 100 

CHAPTER VII 
THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 133 

CHAPTER VIII 
BREATHING .161 



vi CONTENTS 



CHAPTER IX 

PAGE 

THE SKIN AND THE KIDNEYS 185 



CHAPTER X 
THE NERVOUS SYSTEM .... 211 

CHAPTER XI 
THE SPECIAL SENSES 246 

CHAPTER XII 
THE THROAT AND THE VOICE 273 

CHAPTER XIII 
FIRST AID IN ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES 280 

CHAPTER XIV 

BACTERIA 305 

DISEASES THAT SPREAD AND DISINFECTANTS 312 

THE CARE OF THE SICK ROOM 317 

APPENDIX: 

THE STUDY OF PHYSIOLOGY IN ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS . . . 325 

GLOSSARY 331 

INDEX . . , , 343 



EXPLANATION OF THE FRONTISPIECE 

A STUDY IN THE ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN BODY 

(Intended for Reference and Review Exercises.) 

Presenting Important Muscles, Arteries, Veins, Nerves, and also a Few Organs of 
the Chest and Abdomen. (Front view.) 

The frontispiece is a representation of the human body. The skin has 
been removed. The bones and muscles that make up the front wall of 
the chest and the muscles and fatty tissue that compose the front of the 
abdomen have also been removed. 

On the left side of the figure (except chest and abdomen) only the skin 
and fascia have been removed, showing the large veins of the head and neck 
and also the principal superficial veins and nerves of the upper and lower 
limbs. The outline of the tibia is also shown. 

On the right side of the figure (except chest and abdomen) a few large 
muscles have been removed from the limbs, exposing other large muscles 
and also important arteries, veins, and nerves. The arrangement of the 
fascia about both knees is also shown. 

1. The muscles and tendons shown in the figure should be studied in 
connection with the text of Chapter III. Compare muscles and tendons 
of figure with those shown in Figs. 38, p. 49; 39, p. 50; 40, p. 51; and 
42, p. 52. Note the display of tendons on right forearm, the palm of right 
hand, the front of right leg, and the top of right foot. 
' 2. The arteries, represented in the figure, should be compared with 
those in Figs. 83, p. 135; 84, p. 137; 85, p. 139; 91, p. 147; 92, p. 149; 
97, p. 156; and 99, p. 158. 

3. Compare the veins in the figure with Figs. 84, p. 137, and 96, p. 155. 

4. The nerves should be studied in connection with the text of Chapter X. 
Compare the superficial nerves in the figure with those shown in Figs. 142, 
p. 226 ; 143, p. 227 ; 145, p. 231 ; 146, p. 232 ; 147, p. 235 ; and 148, p. 237. 

5. The heart and lungs and their great vessels, as shown in the thoracic 
cavity, should be studied in connection with Chapters VII and VIII. 
Compare with Figs. 83, p. 135 ; 84, p. 137 ; 85, p. 139 ; 89, p. 145 ; 92, p. 149 ; 
100, p. 162; and 102, p. 164. 

6. In the abdominal cavity, as shown in the figure, the intestines and 
various organs have been removed, exposing only the kidneys and great 
arterial, venous, and nerve trunks. Compare with Figs. 84, p. 137 ; 92, p. 149 ; 
and 128, p. 205. 

vii 







A STUDY IN THE ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN BODY 
(For explanation of this Frontispiece see page vii) 



OUR BODIES 
AND HOW WE LIVE 

CHAPTER I 
INTRODUCTION 

1. The Study of Physiology in Schools. We are now 

to begin the study of a few things about our bodies and 
how we live. This branch of our school work, which is 
commonly called physiology, appeals to every thoughtful 
young person. 

The reason for it is plain enough, for it is the study of 
ourselves. It describes the several parts of our bodies 
and tells us how they do their work ; it aims to make 
clear a few of the great laws of health, and teaches us why 
and how we should obey them. 

With this knowledge we may hope to live happier and 
more useful, because healthier, lives. 

2. The Importance of the Study. What study could be 
more important, more interesting, and more fascinating 
than that which has to do with the structure and welfare 
of our own bodies ! 

We gaze with wonder and admiration at the marvelous 
work done by the intricate machines made by man. Well 



2 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

we may, for they seem endowed with life. But in the 
human body we find not simply a most perfect and delicate 
machine, but one endowed with life, a mind, a soul. 

Indeed, the longer we live, the more we study and 
reflect, the more we shall realize the great fact that the 
all-wise Creator, in his goodness and wisdom, has provided 
us with bodies which, in the words of the Psalmist, are 
"fearfully and wonderfully made." 

3. Questions often asked by Thoughtful Persons. We 
must indeed be very dull if we have not at some time or 
other in our lives asked ourselves many curious questions 
about "the house in which we live." 

Why are we warm ? How are we able to move our 
limbs ? How often does the heart beat ? Why do we feel 
warmer after running or exercising with dumb-bells ? 

By what strange magic are the milk, beefsteak, and eggs 
we eat changed into bone, teeth, and muscle ? Why does 
the doctor feel our pulse and put a thermometer under our 
tongue when we are ill ? Why is it so hard to see for a 
few moments after coming into a darkened room from the 
sunlight ? 

These and hundreds of other questions, both curious 
and important, can be answered by those who have 
mastered the simple principles of the subject as told you 
in this book. 

4. Animals are in Motion. We need not be told that 
some part of our bodies, as the heart, is always in motion. 
Even in sleep, when the eyes, the hands, and the feet may 
be still, the rise and fall of the chest in breathing and 
the beating of the heart never stop. 

We also know that we can move from one place to 
another. We need not wait, like the trees in the woods, 



INTRODUCTION 3 

for the wind to blow us to and fro, or, like the pebbles by 
the roadside, for somebody to move us. When we choose, 
we can move from place to place. 

Indeed, it is true that every living animal, even the 
tiniest creature that lives its brief life in a single day and 
can be seen only with the help of the microscope, has the 
power to move of itself. 

5. Animals are Warm. Even in the coldest day of mid- 
winter, when the stones and trees are as cold as ice, our 
bodies, except perhaps the tips of the fingers, the toes, 
and the ears, are always warm. On a winter day we 
sometimes put our cold fingers to the lips to warm them 
with our breath. 

In fact, the bodies of all animals are more or less warm 
so long as they are alive. On a wintry day we have all 
seen the clouds of steam blown from the nostrils and rising 
from the warm body of a hard-working horse. 

6. The Body compared to a Locomotive. The body is, in 
some respects, like a locomotive. The bones and muscles 
correspond to the machinery, and the food we eat to the 
fuel that is used in running it. When the engine is to 
be used, the fireman puts fuel into the furnace, and soon 
the water in the boiler is heated and expands into steam. 
The piston begins to work. This moves the connecting 
rods and wheels. And so the locomotive is set going by 
means of the fuel which was put into the furnace. 

Something not unlike the action of the locomotive occurs 
in our bodies. We take food, and it passes into the stomach. 
By means of that food we are kept warm, muscular force 
is developed, and our limbs and other parts are made to 
work, just as the parts of the engine are set in motion by 
means of the fuel. 



4 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

7. The Body as a Self -Repair ing Machine. The human 
body and the locomotive are alike in another respect, 
both are all the time wearing out. There is an important 
difference, however, between the two. The locomotive 
when badly worn must be taken to pieces and repaired by 
the machinist. 

The human body, on the other hand, is constantly repair- 
ing itself. We take food not only to warm us and to give 
us muscular force, but also for the building up and repairing 
of our bodies. 

Remember, then, that the body far surpasses the engine 
in the perfection of its mechanism, inasmuch as it is a 
self-repairing machine. 

CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF THE BODY 

8. Chemical Elements in the Body. There are about 
seventy different substances which, when pure, cannot be 
broken into any simpler forms of matter. These are called 
elements. 

The greater number of substances we see around us are 
compounded of two or more elements. These compounds 
may be broken up into simple elements by heat, and by 
various other means. 

Our bodies are almost entirely composed of thirteen of 
the seventy elements. Among these are oxygen, hydrogen, 
nitrogen, carbon, and iron. 

Oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen, which are gases in 
their uncombined form, make up three fourths of the weight 
of the whole human body. 

Carbon, which exists in an impure state in charcoal, 
forms more than one fifth of the weight of the body. 



INTRODUCTION 5 

We must keep in mind that, with slight exceptions, none 
of these elements exist in the body in their elementary 
form. They are combined in various proportions to make 
compounds which, as a rule, do not resemble the elements 
of which they are made up. Thus, oxygen and hydrogen 
unite to form water, and water forms more than two thirds 
of the weight of the whole body. 

9. Organic Compounds. There is in the human body 
a series of compound substances which require the agency 
of living structures for their formation. They are built up 
from the elements or from simple mineral compounds by 
plants, and are called organic compounds. 

Animals take as many of these organic substances as 
they require and build them up into the materials of their 
own bodies, which process often results in the formation, of 
still more highly organized forms. 

10. The Three Great Classes of Organic Compounds. The 
principal organic compounds found in the body or in our 
food are usually divided into three great classes : (i) proteids 
(albuminous substances), (2) carbohydrates (starches, sugars, 
and gums), (3) fats. 

The proteids, the type of which is egg albumin, or the 
white of egg, are found in muscle and nerve, in glands, in 
blood, and in nearly all the fluids of the body. 

NOTE. The proteids, because they contain the element nitrogen 
while the others mentioned above do not, are frequently called 
nitrogenous, and the other two are known as non-nitrogenous 
substances. 

The extent to which these three great classes of organic materials 
of the body exist in the animal and vegetable kingdoms, and are util- 
ized for the food of man, will be described in the chapter on food 
(Chapter IV). 



6 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

The carbohydrates are formed of carbon, hydrogen, and 
oxygen, the last two in the proportion to form water. Thus, 
we have animal starch, or glycogen, stored up in the liver. 
Sugar, as grape sugar, is also found in the body. 

The fats contain the same three elements as the carbo- 
hydrates, but in quite different proportions. There are 
three chief fats present in the body. 

11. Inorganic Salts. A large number of the elements 
unite one with another to form inorganic salts. Thus, 
sodium and chlorine unite to form common salt, which is 
found in many of the tissues and fluids of the body. 

Again, certain compounds of lime and soda make up 
more than half the material of the bones. 

Compounds of iron are also found in small quantities 
in the coloring matter of the blood, in the ash of bones, in 
muscles, and in other tissues. 

CELLS AND PROTOPLASM 

12. Cells. All living things, whether plants or animals, 
are made up either of a single cell or of countless numbers 
of cells. 

The human body is built up of these minute structures 
known as cells and the things which the cells have made. 
These cells are so small that we must use a powerful micro- 
scope to see them at all. 

In a general way we may describe a cell as a tiny 
mass of jelly in which floats another still smaller mass 
of slightly different composition, called the nucleus of the 
larger one. 

Cells are of various shapes and sizes, spherical, flat, and 
threadlike. Thus, we shall learn in a succeeding chapter 



INTRODUCTION 




about the rounded cells, or corpuscles, which float in the 
blood, and of the flattened cells which can be scraped from 
the tongue. 

13. Variety of Work done by Cells. Some cells can 
change their forms, as those of muscle ; other cells make 
fluids which help us to digest our food. The outer layer 
of cells, known as the skin, forms a protective coat to the 
body. The liver cells manufacture 

or secrete the bile, and the bone 
cells help to make the bones. 

Millions of blood cells do their 
work and perish every day, while 
the brain cells act in some mysteri- 
ous way to help us to think. 

In short, our very life exists in 
the cell. 

14. Cell Life as Shown by the 

Amceba. The worK done by cells 
is well shown in the life history of the amoeba, a tiny creature 
not more than -^fa of an inch in diameter and found in 
water containing decaying matter. 

If we use a microscope powerful enough to magnify a 
pin's head into the size of a bicycle wheel, we find that 
this bit of life appears as a mass of jellylike substance 
with little grains within it. This jelly is known as proto- 
plasm, meaning the primitive or first stuff. Within the 
amoeba may sometimes be seen a round spot known as 
the nucleus. 

With the aid of the microscope the life of the amoeba, 
as it is lived in a drop of water, can be studied. It creeps 
about, it changes its shape, it selects and digests its food, 
it breathes in oxygen from the air in the water and 



FIG. i. Diagram of a Cell. 
, cell wall ; B, nucleus ; C, nucle- 

olus; A protoplasm of cen body. 



8 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



gives forth waste material When the amoeba grows to 
a certain size it divides into two parts, each of which 

becomes an amoeba in itself. In 
every drop of our blood certain 
cells, the white blood corpuscles, 
may be found, even smaller than 
the amoeba and not unlike it in 
structure. 

15. The Nature of Protoplasm. 
Besides proteid, and usually a small 
amount of carbohydrates and fat, 
protoplasm contains much water in 
which are dissolved small quanti- 
ties of mineral substances. Our 
bodies, as we have just learned, are 
made up of exactly these same sub- 
stances. proteids, carbohydrates, 
fats, water, and mineral salts. They 
are contained in the protoplasm, or 
living matter. 

Finally, we must remember that 
to manifest life, protoplasm, the 
essential material of all living things, 
whether plants or animals, must 
The dark spot is the nucleus, come in contact with oxygen and 

The light and somewhat water apd must be warme( J to a 
rounded clear spots are more 

or less sharply defined cavities certain temperature. 

filled with fluid, and are known ^ How Energy is set Free by 

as vacuoles. J 

Protoplasm. Coal, as we know, is 

the hardened vegetable deposit of forests that lived and 
died in past ages. If we set fire to coal, its energy is set 
free or awakened from its long rest like the sleeping princess 




FIG. 2. Diagram showing an 
Amoeba in Successive 
Stages of Division. 



INTRODUCTION 




FIG. 3. Various Forms of Cells. 



in the fairy tale. We can use this energy to produce light, 
heat, or electricity, or to do work. 

In other words, energy, originally derived from the sun, 
was stored up in the coal and hidden for countless years 
until changed by burning into the energy of heat, move- 
ment, light, and electricity. 

So it is with the warm, living, wet protoplasm of our 
bodies, in the presence of oxygen. It is ever being burnt 
or broken up into simpler 
compounds. The energy 
thus released may show 
itself as heat or motion. 
It is for this reason that 
our bodies are warm and 

, A, columnar cells found lining various parts 

that we have the power of the int estines (called columnar efithe- 
of movement //;); 2?, cells of a fusiform or spindle 

shape found in the loose tissue under the 
skin and in other parts (called connective- 

Experiment i . To ex attune tissue cells ^ c, cell having many processes 
a typical nucleated cell. A or projections such are found in some 
colorless human blood corpus- kinds of connective tissue; >, primitive 
cle is a typical nucleated cell. 
Wind a piece of twine tightly 
around the last joint of a finger. 

Prick the skin with a clean needle. A drop of blood will flow. Dilute 
it with a drop of water, or still better, with a few drops of very dilute 
acetic acid. Spread the diluted blood on a piece of glass and put 
under a cover glass. Examine with a compound microscope. 

A large number of red corpuscles may be seen and with some 
patience one or more colorless cells. An internal rounded body in 
the colorless cells may become visible, which is the nucleus! 

1 Place a drop of carmine fluid on the slide close to the edge of the 
cover glass and press a piece of blotting paper against the opposite edge 
to absorb a little of the liquid. When the blood under the microscope 
is thus stained with carmine fluid, the nucleus is generally more deeply 
stained than the rest of the corpuscle. 



sented about 400 times their real size . 



10 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 






THE PRINCIPAL TISSUES OF THE BODY 

17. The Tissues of the Body. A house, as we all know, 
is built of timbers, bricks, stone, cement, glass, iron, and 
other material, properly arranged and adjusted to endure 
wear and tear, as well as for the convenience and comfort 

of its occupant. 

In a general way we may 
say that our bodily houses are 
built of cells of various sizes 
and shapes, arranged in 
groups. These sets of cells 
compose the tissues or mate- 
rials, and each tissue is distrib- 
uted through different parts 
of the body in order to do its 
special work. 

In following chapters we 
shall learn of two of the most 
important of these tissues, the 






FIG. 4. Various Kinds of 
Epithelial Cells. 



A, columnar cells of intestine ; B, poly- 
hedral cells of the conjunctiva ; C, 
ciliated conical cells of the trachea; 
Z>, ciliated cell of frog's mouth; , 
inverted conical cell of trachea; F, 
squamous cell of the cavity of the 
mouth, seen on its broad surface; 
G, squamous cell, seen edgeways. 



(Chapter X) and the 
muscular (Chapter III), 
the " master tissues," so called 
because it is by them that 
the active life of the indi- 
vidual is carried on. 
In the next chapter, the osseous tissue, or bone, will be 
described. 

18. The Epithelial Tissues. One of the simplest of the 
tissues in the body is called epithelium, and its cells are called 
epithelial cells. It serves as a lining of various cavities, 



INTRODUCTION 



II 



. a covering for the surface of the body, and the essential part 
of various organs called glands. 

There are several varieties of this tissue. Thus, we 
have the flat cells of the outer skin and the lining of the 
mouth, the pear-shaped cells in the 
lining of the stomach and the intes- 
tines, and cells with fine, threadlike 
fringes, called cilia, found in the lining 
of the air passages (Sec. 225). 

Experiment 2. To examine one form of 
epithelium (squamous}. Gently scrape the 
inside of the lips or cheek with an ivory 
paper knife. Place a tiny portion of the 
substance thus obtained upon a glass slide. 
Cover it with a thin cover glass, and if neces- 
sary add a drop of water. Examine with 
the microscope, and the irregularly formed 
(squamous, or pavement) epithelial cells 
may be seen. 

Experiment 3. To examine another form 
of epithelium (ciliated}. With the back of 

a knife blade gently scrape a little of the FIG. 5. Cross-Section of 
membrane from the roof of a frog's mouth. 
Transfer to a glass slide and add a drop of 
salt solution. Place over it a cover glass 

with a hair underneath to prevent pressure upon the cells. Examine 
with a microscope under a high power. The cilia move quite rapidly 
while they are fresh (Sec. 225). 




Epithelium from the 
CEsophagus. 



19. The Connective Tissues. Just as certain cells develop 
into masses of cells which we call muscle, brain, and skin, 
so other cells are set apart to produce tissues by which 
the frame of the body and its organs are molded and held 
together. They are called connective tissues. They form a 



12 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 




FIG. 6. White Fibrous Tissue. 
Highly magnified. 



sort of flexible frame for the body and may be said to serve 
as packing, binding, or supporting tissues. This name 
includes tissues which vary greatly in their appearance. 

20. Connective Tissues with White and Elastic Fibers. 
If we take a bit of well-cooked corned beef and tease it 

apart with a needle, we shall 
find something that looks 
like the fluff of cotton wool. 
This is one kind of connec- 
tive tissue. Now, if we look 
at the tiniest fibrils of the 
beef under the microscope, 
we shall see wavy bundles 
of white fibers running in all 
directions. These are known 
as white fibrous tissue. Across these bundles run other fine 
fibers which branch and coil up like a broken spring and 
are highly elastic. These are known as yellow elastic tissue. 
The connective tissue with white fibers sometimes forms 
a very thin sheet, as in the delicate 
covering of bone known as the 
periosteum, or it may be made up 
into ropelike bands, as in the liga- 
ments of joints and the tendons 
of muscles. It is the connective 
tissue with the yellow elastic fibers 
which makes the coats of the arter- 
ies, and certain ligaments, elastic. 

21. Areolar Tissue. This is a 
form of connective tissue which 

makes a protective covering for important organs. It con- 
sists of bundles of delicate fibers which interlace and cross 




FIG. 7. Yellow Elastic 

Tissue. 
Highly magnified. 



INTRODUCTION 



one another, forming irregular spaces or meshes. These 
little spaces, in health, are filled with fluid that has oozed 
out of the blood vessels. 

22. Fatty Tissue. The connective tissue sometimes 
becomes filled with fat. It is then called fatty or adipose 
tissue. The fat is deposited as tiny drops of oil within the 
tissue cells. The fat cells are 

then bound together by con- 
nective tissue into little lumps, 
which we are able to find on 
picking a bit of suet to pieces. 
Fatty tissue is usually plen- 
tiful beneath the skin, in the 
marrow of bones, on the surface 
of the heart, and in many other 
parts of the body. 

23. Cartilage or Gristle. 
Cartilage, or gristle, is a form of 
connective tissue which under 
the microscope is seen to consist 
of a matrix or base in which cells 
are imbedded, either singly or 
in groups. It is tough, flexible, 
and highly elastic. Sometimes 
the base contains a network of 
white or elastic fibers. 

24. Some Technical Words explained. It is plain that a 
watchmaker would not be able to understand the working 
of a watch unless he first made himself acquainted with its 
various parts. So it is with the study of our bodies. We 
must know something about their structure before we can 
understand how they act and move, or, in one word, live. 




Connective Tissue from 
a Lymphatic Gland. 

Consisting of a very fine network of 
fibrils, around which are cells of 
various sizes. 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 




The science which tells us about the structure, form, and 
position of the different parts of the body is called anatomy. 1 
Take the stomach for an illustration. If we learn what 
it is, where it is, how it looks, its shape, 
size, and general appearance, this is its 
anatomy. 

The science which explains the uses 
or functions of the different parts of 
the body is called physiology. 

If we learn for what special purpose 
the stomach is made, just what its differ- 
ent parts do, and how they do it, this 
is its physiology. 

Now, if we would learn how to take 
care of the different parts of the body 
and how to keep them in good health, 
we may do this by the study of hygiene, 2 
or the science which tells us about 
health. 

An organ is a part of the body which 
does a special work. Thus, the eye is 
an organ of sight, the nose of smell, the 
stomach of digestion, and the lungs of breathing. 

The special work which an organ has to do is said to 
be the function or use of that organ ; thus, it is the function 
of the eye to see, and of the liver to secrete bile. 

1 The word " anatomy " comes from two Greek words meaning a cut- 
ting through, or dissection, that is, the act of cutting an animal in pieces 
for the purpose of study. 

2 The word " hygiene " is derived from the name of the Greek goddess 
Hygeia, who is said to have watched over the health of the people. 



FIG. 9. Longitudinal 
Section of Cartilage. 

Magnified about 

650 times. 

Showing (i) cartilage 
with matrix and cells; 
(2)cartilage with matrix 
containing cells and 
white fibers. 



INTRODUCTION 



QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT 

I. What branch of school work are we now to study? 2. Why 
does this study appeal to every thoughtful young person? 3. What 
can you say about the importance of the study? 4. What great fact 
should we realize ? 5. What questions naturally suggest themselves 
to thoughtful persons? 6. Is some part of our bodies always in 
motion ? 7. What power has every living animal ? 8. How do you 
know that all living animals are more or less warm ? 9. How does 
the body resemble a locomotive ? 10. Can you tell where the com- 
parison fails ? 

II. Of how many chemical elements is the body composed? 
12. Mention five of the more important elements. 13. What is meant 
by organic compounds? 14. What are the three great classes of 
organic compounds? 15. What is meant by the proteids? 16. Of 
what are the carbohydrates formed ? 17. What cm you say of the 
amount of fat in the body? 18. What is meant by the inorganic 
salts? Illustrate. 19. Of what are all living plants and animals 
made up? 20. How will you define a cell? 

21. What variety of work is done by cells ? 22. What is an amoeba ? 
23. What can be seen of the life of the amoeba with the aid of the 
microscope? 24. Of what is protoplasm composed? 25. How is 
energy set free by protoplasm ? 26. To what may we roughly com- 
pare the tissues of the body ? 27. What are called the two " master 
tissues"? 28. What can you say about the epithelial tissues ? 29. What 
general purpose do the connective tissues serve ? 

30. What is meant by white fibrous tissue? 31. What is yellow 
elastic tissue? 32. Of what use are these two kinds of connective 
tissues? 33. Describe areolar tissue and explain its use. 

34. Describe fatty tissue and state where it is found. 35. What 
is meant by cartilage, or gristle? 36. What is meant by anatomy? 
physiology ? hygiene ? 37. Give one illustration to make plain each 
word. 38. What is an organ? Illustrate. 39. What is meant by the 
function of an organ ? Illustrate. 



CHAPTER II 
THE BONY FRAMEWORK 

5. The Skeleton. Every animal must have some kind 
of framework or support to give its body form or shape. 
This framework in most animals is chiefly made up of bones. 

This bony support is called the skeleton, meaning a dried 
body. It is to the body what the ribs are to a ship, or 
what the frame is to a house. 

Every one is familiar with the picture of the human 
skeleton. It shows us how the bones look when properly 
prepared and held in place by wires. There are in all two 
hundred and six separate bones in the adult skeleton. The 
teeth are not bones, but are a part of the skin. 

The bones give firmness, strength, and protection to 
the soft tissues and vital organs, and form, as it were, the 
foundation upon which our bodies are built. 

26. How Bone is made up. Bone is a hard and strong 
substance, made up of animal matter united with certain 
mineral earths, chiefly compounds of lime. The earthy 
part of bone makes up about two thirds of its weight, and 
the animal portion the other third. The lime gives hard- 
ness and firmness to the bones, while the animal substance 
makes them elastic, tough, and flexible. 

In childhood the bones have more animal matter than 
those of the adult ; hence a child's bones do not break 
easily, and, when broken, soon knit together. 

16 



THE BONY FRAMEWORK 




FIG. 10. The Skeleton. 



18 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

In old age there is more lime in the bones in proportion 
to the animal matter ; hence they are more brittle and 
more easily broken than in early life. If broken they unite 
quite slowly, or not at all. 

Experiment 4. To show the earthy or mineral part of bone. Put 
a large soup bone on a hot, clear fire until it is at a red heat. At 
first it becomes black, but after a time it turns white. 

Examine the bone after it is cool. The animal matter has now 
been burnt out, leaving the earthy or mineral part, a white, brittle 
substance showing every outline of the bone. 

Experiment 5. To show the animal part 
of bone. Scrape and clean a chicken's leg 
bone, part of a sheep's rib, or any other small, 
slender bone. Add one fourth of a cupful of 
muriatic acid to a quart of water and place 
the mixture in a wide-mouthed bottle or glass 
fruit jar. Soak the bone in the acid mixture 
for a few days, adding a little more acid from 
time to time. 

FIG. ii. The Fibula The mineral matter is slowly dissolved, and 

tied into a Knot the bone, although retaining its original form, 
after the Mineral bec omes so soft as to be readily cut. If the 
Matter has been dis- . , , , , ^ , 

solved by Acid. experiment be carefully performed, the bone 

may even be tied into a knot. 

27. General Structure of the Bones. Take a long bone, 
like that from a sheep's leg or even a part of a beef shin 
bone, and saw it lengthwise. Note that the ends are soft 
and spongy, while the shaft is hard and compact. The 
central cavity runs almost the whole length of the bone. 
It is filled, in life, with a soft, fatty substance called marrow. 

If the bones were solid, they would be much too heavy 
for ordinary use. A bone may be hard as a rock on the 
outside, on account of its thin, dense layer of compact 
bony tissue, and yet be light because of its cavity and the 
trellis work of loose, spongy texture at the ends, 




THE BONY FRAMEWORK 



A cylindrical bone is not weak although it is hollow. The 
pillars of steel bridges, the posts for the support of electric 
wires, and the frame of a bicycle are 
made of hollow steel tubes. We all 
know that stalks of grass and grain are 
so light and slender that they will bend 
before a light breeze, and yet they are 
strong enough to bear their load of seed. 

Experiment 6. Saw in two, lengthwise, a 
part of a beef shin bone, or a portion of a 
sheep's or a calf's leg, including, if convenient, 
the kneejoint. Boil, scrape, and carefully clean 
one half. Note the compact and spongy bone, 
the shaft, etc. 

Experiment 7. After the flesh has been cut 
from the second half, note the pinkish white 
appearance of the bone, the marrow, etc. Knead 
a small piece of the marrow in the palm ; note 
its oily appearance. Contrast this fresh bone 
with an old, dry one picked up in the field. 

NOTE. While waiting for class use, fresh 
bones should be kept in a cool place, carefully 
wrapped in cloths moistened with listerine, dilute 
carbolic acid solution, or even glycerin solution, 
an ounce to one pint of water. 

28. The Shape of Bones. Bones are 
of many different shapes, according to 
the uses to which they are put. Some 
are long, with hollow shafts, as the bones 
of the arm and the leg; others are short 
or irregular, to give strength, as the bones of the fingers, 
the toes, and the spine. 

Some bones are flat, for protection and to cover cavities, 
like the bones of the skull and shoulder blades ; while others 



FIG. 12. The Right 
Femur sawed in 
Two Lengthwise. 

Showing arrangement 
of compact and 
spongy tissue. 



2O 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 




FIG. 13. Cross-Section from 
Shaft of a Long Bone. 

Magnified 56 times. 

Little openings (Haversian canals) 
are seen, and around them are 
arranged rings of bone with lit- 
tle dark spaces (lacunce), from 
which branch out fine dark lines 
(canaliculi). 



are of various odd shapes and sizes, 
and hence are called irregular, as 
the bones of the wrist, the skull, 
and the ankle. 

29. How Bone looks under the Mi- 
croscope. Bones have a great number 
of very small blood vessels, which 
pass through tiny canals, Haversian 
canals, in the bones, carrying mate- 
rials for their nourishment and 
growth. Round these canals the 
spiderlike bone cells lie in small cav- 
ities, lacunae, which are arranged in 
circles or rows. These cavities are 
joined to one another and to the 
canal which they surround, by other 
extremely fine canals, canaliculi. The 
nourishing fluid of the blood, lymph, 
soaks through these minute cavities 
to all parts of the bone. 

The hard part of the bone lies 
around the Haversian canals in lay- 
ers, lamellae, which are interrupted at 
intervals by the lacunae and canaliculi. 

When a thin section of hard, dry 
bone is examined under the micro- 
scope, the Haversian canals are seen 
as holes surrounded by lamellae of 
bone. The lacunae and canaliculi, 
filled with dust and air, appear as 
dots and lines. The bone cells and 
marrow have entirely disappeared. 

NOTE. A very delicate layer of 
connective tissue, called the periosteum, 
closely adheres to every part of the 



THE BONY FRAMEWORK 



21 



bones, except at the joints, where it is protected with cartilage. 
Shreds of the periosteum may be stripped off with forceps, if the 
bone is soaked for some time in water. This membrane plays a 
very important part in the formation,, growth, and repair of bones, 
as the blood vessels of bones form a network in them before entering 
the Haversian canals. It is therefore of great surgical importance. 
Bones have been removed, leaving the periosteum, within which 
remarkable tissue the entire bone has grown again. 






THE BONES OF THE HEAD 

30. The Skeleton and its Three Main Divisions. The 
skeleton, or bony framework of the "house we live in," 
consists of the bones of the head, 

the trunk, and the limbs. 

31. The Bones of the Head. 
The bones of the head are usu- 
ally described in two parts, 
those of the cranium and those 
of the face. Together they form 
the skull. 

The general shape of the 
head is that of an arch. The 
arch is the strongest shape in 
which the skull could be made, 
just as the arched bridge is the 
strongest, shaped bridge which 
can be made to bear the heavy 
loads that pass over it. 

32. The Bones of the Cra- 
nium. The greater part of 

the skull consists of a rounded, bony box, the cranium, 
which holds and protects the brain under its domelike roof. 




FIG. 14. The Skull. (Front view.) 

A, frontal bone; 5, parietal bone; 
C, temporal bone; D, sphenoid 
bone ; , malar bone ; P, upper 
jawbone ; G, lower jawbone. 



22 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

It is made up of eight bones closely locked together by seams, 
or sutures, somewhat like the dovetailing used by carpenters. 
These eight bones are : 

1 Frontal (forehead) i Occipital (back of head) 

2 Parietal (side of head) i Sphenoid (wedge-shaped) 
2 Temporal (temples) i Ethmoid (sievelike). 

The frontal bone forms the forehead. 

The parietal bones form part of the side walls, top, and 
back- of the skull. 

The temporal bones lie round each ear and form the 
temples on either side. 

The occipital bone forms the lower part of the back of the 
skull. This broad, thin bone rests on the topmost bone 
of the backbone, and is pierced by a large oval opening 
where the spinal cord joins the brain. 

The sphenoid, or wedge bone, is wedged in between the 
bones of the cranium and those of the face, and serves to 
lock together fourteen bones. 

The ethmoid, or sievelike bone, so called because it is full 
of holes like a sieve, lies in the base of the skull between 
and above the eye cavities just at the root of the nose. 

33. The Bones of the Face. All bones of the face, except 
the lower jawbone, are firmly fixed to each other and to 
the bones of the cranium. 

The face contains fourteen bones, viz. : 

2 Malar, or cheek bones 2 Palate bones 

2 Nasal, or nose bones 2 Lachrymal bones 

2 Upper maxillary, or upper jawbones i Vomer, or plowshare bone 

i Lower maxillary, or lower jawbone 2 Turbinated, or spongy bones. 

34. The Larger Bones of the Face. Under the orbits 
are the two malar, or cheek bones. Some races have much 



THE BONY FRAMEWORK 



higher cheek bones than others. Indeed, some races, like 
the American Indians, are recognized by the peculiarity 
in the size and shape of their cheek bones. 

The two nasal bones form the hard part, or bridge, of 
the nose. 

The two upper jawbones form a part of the roof of the 
mouth and the floors of the orbits. In them is fixed the 
upper set of teeth. 

The lower set of 
teeth is fixed in 
the lower jawbone, 
which moves by 
means of a hinge 
joint, thus allowing 
the opening and 
shutting of the 
mouth. 

35. The Smaller 
Bones of the Face. 
The remaining 
bones of the face 
are small. Two 
bones, forming the 
back part of the 
roof of the mouth, 
are called the palate bones. Sometimes infants are born 
with a "cleft palate." This means that the two palate 
bones have not been joined together. 

Two little bones, made like little troughs, carry the tears 
from the eyes to the nose. They are in shape somewhat 
like the finger nails, and are called the lachrymal bones, 
from a Latin word meaning tear. 




FIG. 15. The Skull. (Side view.) 

A, upper jawbone ; B, malar bone ; C, nasal bone ; 
D, lower jawbone ; , frontal bone ; /?, right pari- 
etal bone ; G, occipital bone ; 17, temporal bone ; 
JF, sphenoid bone. 



24 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

The vomer, or plowshare bone, so called from its resem- 
blance to the share of the farmer's plow, is situated 
between the nostrils. 

Two little scroll-like bones within the nose cavity are 
known as the twisted or turbinated bones. 

36. How the Bones of the Head are joined together. The 

bones of the head are joined 
together in a peculiar way. 
Each bone has uneven edges, 
somewhat like the teeth of a 
saw, which fit into the edges of 
the bone to which it is joined. 
In adults these edges fit into 
each other and grow together, 
resembling the dovetailed joints 
in a cabinetmaker's work. They 
are called sutures, from a Latin 
word which means a sewing or 
a seam. 

In infancy some of the bones 
of the skull do not meet, and 
FIG. 16. The Base of the Skull. the throbbing of the brain be- 

A, palate process of upper jawbone; neat h t h em at the top of the 

B, zygoma, forming zygomatic arch; 

C, condyle, for forming articulation head, like the bubbling of a 
with atlas; D, foramen magnum; spr i n g i s easily seen. These 
E, occipital bone. f \ 

openings are called fontanelles, 

meaning little fountains. The bones of the skull are not 
wholly united till the child reaches adult life. 




37. The Hyoid Bone. Under the lower jaw is a little horse- 
shoe-shaped bone, called the hyoid bone because it is shaped 
like a Greek letter (v). The root of the tongue is fastened to 



THE BONY FRAMEWORK 



its bend, and the larynx is hung from it as from a hook. To 
this bone are attached muscles which move the tongue. The 
hyoid, like the kneepan, is not connected with any other bone. 

Experiment 8. To locate the hyoid bone. With the neck resting in 
its natural position, gently grasp the front of the throat with the 
thumb and forefinger just above 
the "Adam's apple." The hyoid 
bone can be plainly felt on a level 
with the lower jaw and about one 
inch and a half behind it (Fig. 1 73) . 



THE BONES OF THE 
TRUNK 




38. The Trunk and its Two 
Cavities. The trunk is that 
part of the body which sup- 
ports the head, and to which 
the arms and the legs are 
attached. It has two impor- 
tant parts, or cavities. 

The upper part, called the 
thorax, or chest, is like a basket or cage of bone. It is 
formed by the breastbone in front, the ribs and a part 
of the backbone behind. It contains the lungs and the 
heart. 

The lower part, or abdomen, holds the stomach, liver, 
intestines, kidneys, and other important organs. 

The chest and abdomen are separated by a muscular 
partition known as the diaphragm, which serves as the chief 
muscle in breathing. 

39. The Bones of the Trunk. The principal bones of the 
trunk are those of the spine, the ribs, and the hips. 



FIG. 17. The Top of the Skull, 
showing the Sutures. 



26 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

There are fifty-three bones in the trunk, and they are 
thus arranged. 

7 Cervical, or neck vertebrae 
12 Dorsal, or back vertebrae 



I . The Spine, 26 bones 



5 Lumbar, or loin vertebras 
i Sacrum, or sacred bone 
i Coccyx, or cuckoo bone 

14 True ribs 



II. 24 Ribs 

10 False ribs 

III. i Sternum, or breastbone 

IV. 2 Hip bones 

40. The Spine. The spine, or backbone, serves as a sup- 
port for the whole body. It is made up of a number of 
separate bones called vertebrae, between which are placed 
elastic pads, or cushions, of cartilage. 

These pads not only serve to bind the vertebrae firmly 
together, but also help to break the force of any shock or 
jar which the spine may receive, just as the rubber tires 
of a carriage, an automobile, or a bicycle lessen the jolting 
which would be felt without them. 

The spine forms a pillar, or column of bones, tapering 
towards the head. The lower ones are larger and stronger 
to enable them to bear the weight of those above them. 

At the top are seven cervical, or neck vertebrae ; below 
them are the twelve dorsal, or back vertebrae, from which 
spring the ribs. 

The next five bones, called the lumbar, or loin vertebrae, 
are thicker and larger. 

41. The Sacrum and Coccyx. The twenty-four vertebrae 
rest on and above a strong, three-sided bone called the 
sacrum, or sacred bone, which is wedged in between the hip 
bones like the keystone of an arch. This bone supports 
the spine and breaks the force of sudden shocks. 



THE BONY FRAMEWORK 



Joined to the lower end of the sacrum is a little, tapering 
bone, made up of several little bones, 
called the coccyx. It is so named from 
its fancied resemblance to the beak of 
a cuckoo. 

42. How the Bones of the Spine are 
arranged. Each bone, or vertebra, of 
the backbone has a hole within it, and 
the separate bones are so placed, one 
above the other, that these holes form 
a continuous tube or canal, down which 
passes the spinal cord. Imagine a num- 
ber of spools placed one on another. 
The central hole through each would be 
exactly over the other, and there would 
be one long tube or channel through 
the whole string of spools. In this 
bony canal the spinal cord lies pro- 
tected from injury. 

From each vertebra projects a spine 
or thorn of bone, to which are fas- 
tened muscles which keep the flexible 
backbone erect and lift the head and 
shoulders. The row of spines along 
the whole length of the backbone 
forms a ridge, which can be easily 
felt by pressing with the fingers up 
and down the middle of the back. 

43. The Wonders of the Spine. 
The spine is built in a most curious 

COCCYX 

and wonderful manner, firm, and _ r i 

FIG. 1 8. The Spinal 

yet elastic; so stiff that it will bear Column. 




28 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

a heavy weight and yet bend like rubber. It is a tapering 
pile of odd-shaped bones, so admirably planned and so 
wonderfully put together, that the delicate brain resting 
upon it, and the spinal cord hidden within its bony canal, 
are not often hurt. 

The most daring acrobat rarely breaks the bones of his 
spine or puts them out of place. It is not an uncommon 
thing to see show people bend their backs until they can 

put their heads on the 
ground, or clasp their 
legs around their necks. 

Experiment 9. To illus- 
trate the movement of torsion 
in the spine. Sit upright with 
the back and shoulders well 
applied against the back of a 
chair. Note that the head 
and neck can be turned as 
much as 60 or 70. Now 
bend forward so as to let the 
lumbar vertebrae come into 
play, and the head can be 
turned 30 farther. 

44. The Ribs. The 

FIG. 19. Thorax. ribs are j ongj flat> and 

Anterior view. curyed bones wMch bend 

round the chest somewhat like the hoops of a barrel. There 
are twenty-four ribs, twelve on each side. 

The ribs are joined to the backbone behind, and most of 
them are joined in front, directly or indirectly, to a flat, 
narrow bone, which is shaped somewhat like an ancient 
sword or dagger. It forms the middle front wall of the 
chest and is called the sternum, or breastbone. 




THE BONY FRAMEWORK 29 

Counting from the neck, the first seven pairs are called 
the true ribs. They are all joined directly to the breastbone. 

The five lower pairs, known as the false ribs, are not joined 
to the breastbone at all. Cartilages connect the first three 
of them with each other, and with the last of the true ribs. 

The lowest two pairs of ribs are often known as the float- 
ing ribs, because they are not even joined by cartilages, but 
are quite free in front. 

45. The Hips and the Pelvis. The lower part of the 
trunk is formed by two large, irregular bones, very firm 
and strong, called the hip, or haunch bones. They are 
joined to the sacrum behind, and to each other in front. 

The two hip bones, with the sacrum and coccyx, form a 
kind of bony basin called the pelvis, which contains and 
protects several important organs. 

Each hip bone has a cup-shaped cavity on its side, into 
which the rounded head of the thigh bone fits. It is called 
the acetabulum, meaning vinegar cup, because it has the 
shape of the vinegar cups used by the Romans. 

THE BONES OF THE UPPER LIMBS 

46. The Bones of the Upper Limbs. Each of the upper 
limbs consists of the shoulder, arm, forearm, and hand. 

The thirty-two bones of each upper limb are usually 

classified as follows. 

( Scapula, or shoulder blade 
* { Clavicle, or collar bone 
Arm Humerus, or arm bone 

Ulna 
Forearm < Radiug 



Hand 



8 Carpal, or wrist bones 
5 Metacarpal bones 
14 Phalanges, or finger bones 



30 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

47. The Bones of the Shoulder and Arm. There are two 
bones in the shoulder, and they serve to fasten the arm to 
the trunk. These are the scapula, or shoulder blade, and 
the clavicle, or collar bone. 

The shoulder blade is a large, flat, three-sided bone, which 
is placed on the upper and back part of the chest. On the 
outer side it has a saucerlike cavity on which the rounded 

head of the arm bone rests. 

The collar bone is a long, nar- 
row bone, with a double curve 
like the italic letter/. It serves, 
like the keystone of an arch, to 
keep the shoulders wide apart, 
and thus to allow the arms great 
freedom of movement . Its inner 
end is tied to the breastbone, 
and its outer to the shoulder 
blade. 

The humerus, a long, hollow 

bone, rests against a shallow 
FIG. 20. The Scapula. -, ,-, , n -, -i i j 

socket on the shoulder blade. 

It is joined at the elbow to the bones of the forearm. 

48. The Bones of the Forearm. The forearm contains 
two long, hollow bones, the ulna and the radius. 

The ulna, or elbow bone, is the larger of these two bones. 
It is joined to the humerus by a hinge joint at the elbow. 
It is on the same side as the little finger. 

The radius, queerly named because it is supposed to 
resemble one of the spokes of a wheel, is the long, slightly 
curved, outer bone of the forearm. It is on the same side 
as the thumb. Its upper end is fastened both to the ulna 
and the humerus. 




THE BONY FRAMEWORK 



The radius is fastened to the ulna in such a 
manner that it can glide partly round it. This 
gives us the power of twisting the hand. 

Experiment 10. To illustrate the action of the radius. 
Rest the forearm on a table, with the palm up. The 
radius is on the outer side (thumb) and parallel with 
the ulna. If now, without moving the elbow, we turn 
the hand as if to pick up something from the table, the 
radius may be seen and felt crossing over the ulna, 
while the latter bone has not moved. 

49. The Hand. The hand consists of the 
eight bones of the wrist (carpal), the five 
long bones of the palm (metacarpal), and the 
fourteen small bones of the fingers 
(phalanges). Each finger has 
three bones, each thumb two. The 
bones of the fingers are arranged 
in three rows, as shown by closing 
the hand. 

The twenty-seven bones of the 
hand are held in place by strong but flexible 
ligaments. By this beautiful contrivance, the 
greatest strength and mobility are given to 
the hand, which is thus fitted for all kinds of 
work, from grasping heavy hammers to han- 
dling the pen, playing difficult music on the 
piano, and threading the finest needle. 

THE BONES OF THE LOWER LIMBS 

50. The Lower Limbs. The general struc- 
ture and number of the bones of the lower limbs FlG : 22 ' The 
. Ulna and the 

bear a striking similarity to those of the upper Radius 




FIG. 21. The 
Humerus. 




32 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

limbs. The two sets of limbs, although differing in many 
points, are built on the same general plan, the one 
being adapted for grasping and the other for walking. 




FIG. 23. Bones of the Hand and Wrist, as shown by an X-Ray Photograph. 
Two rings are plainly shown. 

51. The Bones of the Lower Limbs. The lower limb, like 
the arm, is arranged in three parts, the thigh, leg, and foot. 

The thirty bones of each lower limb are usually classified 
as follows. 

Thigh Femur, or thigh bone 

f Tibia, or shin bone f 7 Tarsal, or ankle bones 

Leg -I Fibula, or splint bone Foot -I 5 Metatarsal, or instep bones 

[ Patella, or kneecap | 14 Phalanges, or toe bones 



THE BONY FRAMEWORK 



33 



I 



52. The Thigh Bone. The femur, or thigh 
bone, the largest and heaviest bone in the 
body, reaches from the hip to the knee. It 
has a rounded head, which fits into the cup- 
like cavity in the hip bone which has already 
been mentioned. 

53. The Bones of the Leg. The leg consists, 
like the forearm, of two bones. The larger, 
a strong, three-sided bone with a sharp edge 
in front, is called the tibia. It is commonly 
known as the shin bone. 

The smaller bone, bound at 
both ends to the tibia, as a pin 
is to a brooch, is called the fibula, 
meaning a buckle or clasp. It is 
a long, slender bone on the out- 
side of the leg, and its lower end 
forms the outer ankle 

Covering the kneejoint in part 
is a flat, three-sided bone, called 
the patella, or kneepan, which 
helps to protect the front of the 
kneejoint. 

54. The Bones of the Foot. The foot con- 
sists of twenty-six bones, which are known 
as the tarsal and metatarsal bones, and the 
phalanges. 

The seven tarsal, or ankle bones form the 
heel, the ankle, and part of the sole of the 

foot. These bones are tied firmly together 

. FIG. 25. The 
by straps, or ligaments, and are strong enough Tibia and the 

to bear the weight of the body. Fibula. 




FIG. 24. The 
Femur. 



34 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

The large bone, which projects backwards, is the heel bone. 
It is connected with the great calf muscles of the leg by a 
very strong cord, or tendon, called the tendon of Achilles. 1 

The five metatarsal, or instep bones correspond to the 
palm bones of the hand. 

The phalanges are the fourteen bones of the toes. 

55. Why the Foot is built in the Form of an Arch. The 
foot is built in the form of a half dome or half arch. This 
is to afford a broad, strong surface for the support of the 
weight of the body. The bones of the toes and the heel 




FIG. 26. The Bones of the Foot. 

form the piers, while the little bones wedged in between 
the metatarsal bones and the heel make up the keystone of 
the arch. This arch gives a certain amount of spring and 
elasticity to the feet, and hence it is of the utmost impor- 
tance in preventing jars and jolts. 

Experiment 11. Place your bare foot in water and then stand on 
a dry board. The imprint on the board will show you how much of 
the foot touches the ground, and thus the extent of the arch. 

56. How Bones are joined together. The place where 
two bones join together is called a joint or an articulation. 

Joints vary according to the kind and amount of motion. 
In all joints the essential parts are the same. 

1 The warlike deeds of this famous Greek hero were sung by Homer. 
According to the story, Achilles received his death wound in the heel, no 
other part of his body being vulnerable. 



THE BONY FRAMEWORK 



35 



The joint end of the bones is smooth, moist, and tipped 
with a thin layer of cartilage, called hyaline cartilage. 
This smooth and glistening covering is bathed with a 
sticky fluid called the synovial fluid, so named because it is 
like the white of a raw egg. This is the liquid often 
spoken of as "joint oil," furnished by 
nature to allow the rubbing surfaces 
to move smoothly over one another, 
and thus prevent too much wear and 
tear. 

57. Different Kinds of Joints. There 
are two principal kinds of joints, the 
imperfect, or practically immovable, and 
the perfect, or movable. Thus, the bones 
of the head, as we have seen, are firmly 
dovetailed by jagged edges, which 
grow into each other from infancy. 
These are known as imperfect joints. 

Movable joints allow the bones to 
glide on each other with more or less 
freedom of motion, 
cording to the motion needed. 

Thus, the joint at the hip is called 
a ball-and-socket joint, and is not unlike 
a child's toy cup and ball, because 
the rounded head of the thigh bone fits into a socket in 
the hip bone. The rounded head of the arm bone, as we 
have learned, works in the shallow, saucerlike cavity of 
the shoulder blade. Such a joint allows a great variety 
of motion in almost every direction. 

Bones at certain joints are grooved and ridged so that 
one bone can glide over the other to and fro, like the lid of 




They differ ac- FlG - 2 ?- Showing how 

the Ends of the Bones 
are shaped to form 
the Elbow Joint. 

The cut ends of a few 
ligaments are seen. 



36 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

a box or a door on its hinges. This is called a hinge joint. The 
elbow joint is a good example of this forward and backward 
movement ; we can only bend and extend it. 

Other hinge joints are found at the knee, and between 
the lower jaw and the cranium. The last permits some 
motion from side to side, and is therefore 
called an imperfect hinge joint. 

Experiment 12. Sit in a chair and extend 
the right leg. Place the right heel on the floor 
and turn the foot from side to side. The thigh 
bone can be felt rotating in the upper part of 
the thigh. Note that while the thigh bone 
moves through a small space, that described by 
the tips of the toes is much larger. 

58. How Bones are fastened to Each 
Other. The bones are fastened together, 
kept in place, and their movements 
limited, by tough and strong bands, or 
straps, called ligaments, from a word 
meaning to bind. They may be seen in 
the movable joints, of the calf, sheep, 
or chicken, and have the look of white, 
silvery cords or bands. 
FIG. 28. A Powerful Some of the ligaments are as thin as 

Hip jn ei T thin tissue P a P er ' while others > as 

at the side of the knee, or at the shoulder, 

are much thicker. Some cross each other, as in the knee- 
joint ; while others go all round the joint, and completely 
shut it up in a bag. This prevents the bones from being 
easily dislocated, or slipped out of place. 

It is sometimes a difficult matter to carve a fowl, because 
one has to cut through the ligaments before he can cut the 




THE BONY FRAMEWORK 37 

limbs apart to serve it in pieces. There may be the same 
difficulty in separating the bones in a shoulder or leg of 
mutton, because they are held firmly together by ligaments. 

59. Use of the Bones. Bones serve many useful pur- 
poses. They preserve the general shape of the body. The 
skeleton, as we have seen, is its framework, which gives 
protection, leverage, and support to the soft and fleshy 
parts of our bodies. 

Bones protect the soft organs of the body. The bones 
of the head protect the soft and delicate brain. The 
ribs inclose the heart and lungs in a large cage of bone. 




FIG. 29. Ligaments of the Foot and the Ankle. 

Passageways and little cavities are hollowed out of solid 
bone to lodge and shield important organs. There are 
grooves and canals in the bones which serve to receive 
and protect tender organs, delicate nerves, and tiny blood 
vessels. 

The surfaces of many bones are fitted with grooves, knobs, 
and sharp edges to which muscles are fastened. This 
arrangement of the muscles helps us to stand erect and 
make the countless movements of the body with ease and 
quickness. 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 




FIG. 30. A Broken Radius. 



60. Repair of Broken Bones. When a bone is broken, 
blood trickles out between the injured parts, and after- 
wards gives place to a sticky, watery fluid, which gradually 
becomes thicker, like sirup or jelly. This is 
slowly replaced by a new bone structure, and 
forms a kind of cement to hold together the 

broken ends. 

Nature does not 
spare her healing 
cement. The ex- 
cess bulges out 
around the place 
of union, over which a bunch may be felt under the skin 
for years. In young people, a broken bone will knit together 
in two or three weeks ; while in grown-up people six weeks or 
more will be required. In 
aged persons, a broken 
bone may prove a tedious 
and often a serious matter. 
When a bone is broken, 
the ends tend to "ride" 
over each other, because the 
muscles tend to pull the 
broken portions apart; 




FIG. 31. A Broken Clavicle. 



hence the need of a surgeon 
to " set" the bone by draw- 
ing the injured parts into place, and keeping them in 
position by splints and bandages properly applied. 

After a bone has been once broken, it is fragile for some 
time, and great care should be taken, especially with chil- 
dren, for fear that it may be broken a second time before 
it has properly healed (Sec. 405, Figs. 179 and 185). 



THE BONY FRAMEWORK 



39 



61. Hints about the Health of Bones. The bones of 
children are flexible and capable of being bent by long- 
continued strain, because they contain more animal matter 
than in later years. Therefore great 
care must be taken with the positions 
which children take at home, at school, 
and elsewhere. 

Young people should not get into 
the habit of taking hurtful positions, 
such as sliding down into the seat, 
sitting on the foot or on the small of 
the back. Bending over too much 
while reading, writing, sewing, prac- 
ticing on the piano, or doing other 
work, may cause spinal curvature and 
round shoulders. 1 

The use of tight and high-heeled 
boots and shoes cannot be too strongly 
condemned as both hurtful and ugly. 
High heels throw the weight of the 
body forward, and force the foot down 
onto the toes. This will in time not only crowd the toes 
out of proper shape, causing tender feet, corns, bunions, 

1 Children who go to school at six or seven years of age are often com- 
pelled to sit on a badly shaped chair, sometimes with no support for the 
back. The muscles become tired and the child leans to one side, usually 
to the right. 

A narrow space between the seat and the desk obliges the child to push 
between them, so that, in girls particularly, a drag is exerted on one 
shoulder; or the skirts form an uneven cushion, tilting the spinal column 
out of the perpendicular. Even in grown men and women, occupations 
requiring a one-sided muscular action affect the vertebrae, and therefore the 
shape of the spine. In children the much softer bones are still more readily 
affected. 




FIG. 32. A Broken 
Tibia. 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



distorted joints, and ingrowing nails, but, in many instances, 

tends to make the gait stiff and ungainly. 1 

62. Effect of Alcohol upon the Cell Growth of the Bones. 

The bones grow mainly during the earlier years of life, and 

yet they do not reach their full growth until about the 

twenty-fifth year. It is 
said that the skull grows 
even after that age. Now, 
we know that a person's 
form depends to a great 
extent upon the size and 
shape of his bones, because, 
as we have seen, they make 
up the framework of the 
body. It is plainly evident, 
then, that the bone cells, 
which are busily building 
up the bony tissues while 
we are young, must not be 
injured or badly nourished, 
otherwise our bones may 
become feeble and stunted 
in their growth. 




FIG. 33. Showing how the Bones of 
the Skull may be artificially de- 
formed by " Head Binding." 

From the photograph of a "triangular" 
skull found in an Indian grave in Ancon, 
Peru. 



1 Most deformities of the feet are developed during childhood, while the 
bones are soft, the ligaments less resistant, and the muscles, together with 
the other foot structures, are undergoing rapid changes in development. 

The power of the foot as a sustainer of the weight of the body is 
readily understood. The heel, great toe, and outer side of the foot form 
the three points of a tripod. An outward-crowded great toe decreases 
the utility of the foot to just such a degree as it is forced from its normal 
position. 

Toeing in is often due to the unconscious effort to lessen the strain on the 
arch of the foot, produced by badly formed shoes. Few children will toe 
in if they wear properly shaped shoes. 



THE BONY FRAMEWORK 41 

Alcoholic liquors tend to retard the growth of the cells, 
bone cells included, and prevent their proper development. 
Hence alcohol in all its forms is especially injurious to 
young people, as it checks the cell growth of the bones 
and thus hinders the building up of the bony framework. 1 

63. Effect of Tobacco upon the Bony Cell Growth. What 
we have just read of the effect of alcoholic liquors in retard- 
ing the cell growth of the bones and thus stunting the 
bony framework holds good of tobacco. This powerful 
narcotic is peculiarly injurious to the young, as the bony 
cell growth is easily disturbed at this time by noxious sub- 
stances. If the bones are defrauded of their proper build- 
ing material because the blood sent to nourish their cells 
is poor in quality or loaded with narcotics, they become 
undersized or weakened. 

A well-developed framework is something to be prized. 
No thoughtful boy or girl will risk losing it by indulging in 
the use of tobacco or any other narcotic. 2 

1 The injurious effect of alcohol on the entire development of the child 
is evident from the fact that children who drink spirituous liquors are 
noticeably stunted in growth. ADOLF FRICK. M.D. 

The use cf alcoholic drinks exerts an injurious influence upon the mental 
and physical development of children. DR. FIEDLER, Superintendent of 
the Dresden City Hospital, Germany. 

2 Smoking prevents a healthy nutrition of the several structures of the 
body. Hence comes, especially in young persons, an arrest of the growth 
of the body, low stature, an unhealthy supply of blood, and weak bodily 
powers. DR. J. COPLAND, F.R.S., of England. 

Stunted growth, impaired digestion, palpitation, and other evidences 
of nerve exhaustion and irritability have again and again impressed a les- 
son of abstinence from tobacco which has hitherto been far too little 
regarded. London Lancet. 



REVIEW ANALYSIS 



THE BONES OF THE BODY 





' 


f i Frontal 






2 Parietal 




I. CRANIUM ) 


2 Temporal 




(8 bones) ) 


i Occipital 






i Sphenoid 






i Ethmoid 






' 2 Malar 






2 Nasal 


THE HEAD 
(29 bones) 


II. FACE ) 


2 Superior maxillary 
i Lower maxillary 




(14 bones) J 


2 Palate 






2 Lachrymal 






i Vomer 






2 Turbinated 




III. THE EAR ) 


[Hammer 




(6 bones) ) 


Anvil 
Stirrup 




^ IV. HYOID BONE 








17 Cervical vertebrae 






12 Dorsal vertebras 
5 Lumbar vertebras 
Sacrum 


THE TRUNK 




Coccyx 


(53 bones) 


II. THE RIBS ) 


" 14 True ribs 




(24 bones) ) 


10 False ribs 




III. STERNUM 






. IV. Two HIP BONES 






I. SHOULDER . . . . x 


[Scapula 
Clavicle 




II. ARM ... . 


Humerus 


UPPER LIMBS 

-< 

(64 bones) 


III. FOREARM . . . . 


(Ulna 
Radius 




IV. HAND 


{8 Carpal 






5 Metacarpal 






14 Phalanges 




f I THIGH 


Femur 






t Tibia 




II LEG 


T?;!*. tin 


LOWER LIMBS 




rlDUla 


(60 bones) 




Patella 
[7 Tarsal 




III FOOT 








5 Metatarsal 




( 


14 Phalanges 



42 



THE BONY FRAMEWORK 43 



QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT 

I. What is meant by the skeleton, and what are its uses? 2. Of 
what is bone composed? 3. What experiments illustrate the compo- 
sition of bone ? 4. Explain the general structure of bone. 5. What 
can you tell of the general shape of bones? 6. How does bone look 
under the microscope ? 7. Name the principal divisions of the human 
skeleton. 8. Into what parts is the head divided? 9. Mention the 
bones of the cranium. 10. Describe each bone of the cranium. 

II. Give the names of the bones of the face. 12. Describe the 
larger bones of the face. 13. Describe the smaller bones of the face. 
14. How are the bones of the head joined together? 15. Where is 
the hyoid bone ? 16. Of what parts does the trunk consist ? 17. Men- 
tion the bones of the trunk. 18. Describe the spine in full. 19. How 
are the bones of the spine arranged? 20. Describe in some detail 
the ribs. 

21. How are the bones of the pelvis arranged? 22. Name the 
bones of the upper limbs. 23. Describe the bones of the shoulder 
and arm. 24. Describe the bones of the forearm. 25. Tell what you 
know about the bones of the hand. 26. Name the bones of each 
part of the lower limbs. 27. Describe the bones of the thigh and 
leg. 28. Tell what you know about the bones of the foot. 29. How 
are bones joined together ? 30. Describe the different kinds of joints 
and illustrate. 

31. Describe ligaments and explain their uses. 32. Explain the 
general uses of bones. 33. What happens when bones are broken? 
34. Give some hints about the health of bones. 35. What is the 
effect in general of alcohol upon the growth of bones? 36. How 
does tobacco injure the growth of bones ? 37. Give orally, in order 
of Review Analysis, p. 42, the bones of the head. 38. Give orally 
in order the bones of the trunk. 39. Mention the bones of the upper 
limbs. 40. Give orally the bones of the lower limbs. 41. Write on the 
blackboard, in tabular form, the names of all the bones of the body, 
as arranged in Review Analysis, p. 42. 



CHAPTER III 
THE MUSCLES AND HOW TO USE THEM 

64. Muscles as the Organs of Motion. The energy set 
free in the burning, or oxidation, which is constantly going 
on in the bodily tissues is the source of the active powers 
of our bodies. 

These active powers are mainly manifested in the form 
of motion or movement, either of a part of the body or of 
the body as a whole. 

These total or partial bodily movements are produced by 
muscles, the organs of motion. 

65. Variety of Muscular Action. The lean meat or flesh 
which forms the rounded, shapely covering for our bony 
framework is muscle. When we eat beefsteak or mutton 
we are eating muscle. Muscles, of which there are more 
than four hundred in the body, are also the means by 
which the body is kept in the erect position and in other 
positions which call for effort. 

The limbs are moved by muscles. Even the motions of 
the stomach and the action of the heart are caused by 
muscles. Muscles move the skin. In many animals this 
action is well marked, as when the horse shakes his hide 
to get rid of biting flies. Muscles move the bones, the 
lips, and the eye. 

In brief, all motion in our bodies is dependent upon muscular 
activity. 

44 



THE MUSCLES AND HOW TO USE THEM 45 



66. Two Great Kinds of Muscles. We shall learn later 
that all the varied movements of the muscles are carried 
on under the control of the nervous 
system. Some of these movements are 
under the control of our will, while 
others are managed by the nervous 
system quite independently of the will. 
For instance, we know we have it in 
our power to decide when to move our 
head, our hands, or our feet. The mus- 
cles whose duty it is to move them are 
under the control of our will. We call 
these voluntary muscles. 

On the other hand, our will has no 
control over the muscles of the stomach, 
the heart, or any of 
the internal organs. 




FIG. 34. A Portion 
of a Striped Mus- 
cular Fiber. 
Highly magnified. 

A, fiber separating into 
disks; B, fibrillze; 
C, cross-section of a 
disk. 



The work of these 

organs goes on night 
and day without regard to our will. We 
call these involuntary muscles. 

Experiment 13. To show the general appear- 
ance of the muscles. Obtain the lower part of a 
sheep's leg, with most of the lean meat and the FIG. 35. A Portion of 
hoof left on. One or more of the muscles, with Striped Muscular 
their bundles of fibers, fasciae, and tendons, are 
readily made out with a little careful dissection. 




Fiber, showing 
Stripes and Nuclei. 
Highly magnified. 



Experiment 14. To show the gross structure 
of muscle. Take a small portion of a large muscle, as a strip of 
lean corned beef. Pick the bundles and fibers apart with fine needles 
until they are so fine as to be almost invisible to the naked eye. Con- 
tinue the experiment with the help of a hand magnifying glass or a 
microscope. 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



67. The General Build of Voluntary Muscles. The vol- 
untary muscles, although they seem to be solid masses of 
red meat, really consist of separate bundles of flesh held 
together by a very thin web of connective tissue, not 
unlike the thinnest of tissue paper. Each bundle of flesh 
is a muscle with its own set of blood vessels and nerves, 
and is inclosed in its own sheath of connective tissue. 

68. How the Voluntary Muscles look under the Micro- 
scope. If the tiniest bit of a voluntary muscle be examined 
with the microscope, it is found to consist of bundles (fas- 
ciculi) of separate fibers arranged side by side. Each sepa- 
rate fiber is inclosed 
in an elastic sheath 
(sarcolemma) . 

These tiny fibers 
are seen to be marked 
crosswise with dark 
stripes, and to be sepa- 
rated at each stripe 
into disks. 

On account of the 
cross markings on the 
fibers these muscles 
are often called striped 
or striated muscles 
FIG. 36. Blood Vessels in a Piece of Striped /pjg s <JA an( J ?c\ 
Muscle as seen under the Microscope. 

69. The Involun- 

Magnified 340 times. 

tary Muscles. The 

involuntary muscles consist of ribbon-shaped bands which 
surround hollow tubes or cavities in the body. They are 
never attached to bony levers nor are they furnished with 
tendons, as are the voluntary muscles. 




THE MUSCLES AND HOW TO USE THEM 



47 



Under the microscope these muscles are found to con- 
sist, not of fibers, but of long, spindle-shaped cells, bound 
together in such a way as to form bands or ribbons. They 
are often called unstriated or unstriped 
muscles. 

70. How Muscles contract. Muscles 
have a peculiar power of their own. 
This is the power to contract throughout 
their length or to become shorter and 
thicker. 

Contraction is not, however, the nat- 
ural state of a muscle. After a longer 
or shorter time it is tired and begins 
to relax. Even the heart, the hardest 
working muscle of the body, rests be- 
tween its beats. 

In order to contract, a muscle must FlG - 37- A Spindle 
be stimulated. This stimulus, or that 
which gives it the power to contract, is 
a nervous impulse which is sent along the 
nerve fibers from the central nervous system. This stim- 
ulus acts upon the muscles and causes them to shorten in 
length and swell in girth. 

71. Why Muscles contract. The purpose of the contrac- 
tion of muscles is plain. By contracting, muscles become 
shorter and thicker and the two ends are brought closer 
together. Now, if one end of a muscle is attached to a 
fixed point and the other end is fastened to some object 
which is free to move, the contraction of the muscle will 
bring the movable body nearer to the fixed point. 

Thus, the muscles cause the motion of the parts to 
which they are attached. This motion in turn gives rise to 



Cell of Involuntary 
Muscle. 

Highly magnified. 



48 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

locomotion or other movements of the body. In other 
words, muscles by their contraction are able to do work. 

The part of a muscle which remains fixed when it con- 
tracts is called its origin. 

The end which is connected with the movable part is its 
insertion. 

Experiment 15. To show how muscles relax and contract. This 
experiment illustrates the contraction of the biceps, and is popularly 
called " trying your muscle." Lay your left forearm on a table ; 
grasp with the right hand the mass of flesh on the front of the upper 
arm. Now gradually raise the forearm, keeping the elbow on the 
table. Note that the muscle thickens as the hand rises. 

Reverse the act. Keep the elbow in position, bring the forearm 
slowly to the table, and the biceps appears to become softer and 
smaller, it relaxes. 

Experiment 16. Repeat the same experiment with other muscles. 
With the right hand grasp firmly the extended left forearm. Extend 
and bend the fingers vigorously. Note the effect on the muscles and 
tendons of the forearm. 

72. How the Muscles work in Harmony. A single muscle 
rarely or never contracts alone, but always in harmony 
with a number of other muscles. Even the simplest move- 
ment we can make requires the combined action of several 
muscles to carry it out. If the movement is at all difficult, 
such as playing on the piano or riding on the bicycle, the 
different muscles must contract in a certain order and with 
a certain strength and rapidity. 

This harmonious working of the muscles is spoken of as 
muscular coordination. Unless the muscles work in perfect 
harmony, the complicated movements will be performed 
in a clumsy and imperfect way. 

73. The Function of Tendons. If we bend the leg or 
arm and grasp the inside bend of the joint with the hand, 



THE MUSCLES AND HOW TO USE THEM 49 







FIG. 38. Superficial Muscles of the Bodv. (Front view.) 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



we feel the motion of cords just beneath the skin. These 
are the tendons, or sinews, forming the tapering ends of 
muscles, which are fastened to the bones. 

Tendons are white, glistening cords, or straps, which con- 
nect the muscles with the bones. They are very strong 
but flexible. Children often amuse themselves by getting 
at the market the leg of a fowl or a rabbit, 
and moving the toes by pulling a white 
cord in the leg. This cord is a tendon. 

Experiment 17. Tendons may be admirably 
shown in the leg of a fowl or turkey. Obtain the 
hoof of a calf or sheep with one end of the ten- 
don of Achilles still attached. Test its strength. 

Experiment 18. With the thumb and fore- 
finger of the right hand, grasp firmly the inside 
bend of the left elbow. Bend and extend the 
left forearm vigorously. The action of the biceps 
tendon may be readily studied. 

74. How the Muscles are named. Each 
muscle has its own name given to it from 
FIG. 39. The Ten- j ts peculiar shape, size, or from the special 

don of Achilles. -, ., -, , r ,, 

work it has to do. Most of these names 
are Latin words, and are often hard to remember. Thus, 
some of the muscles which help bend the fingers and the 
toes are called flexors, while those which straighten them 
are known as extensors. 

Some muscles have several points of insertion, for ex- 
ample, the two-headed muscle (biceps) and the three-headed 
(triceps). Other muscles are named from some resemblance 
to figures in geometry, as the trapezius and rhomboid, or from 
the direction of their fibers, as rectus and oblique. Again, 
we have in the lower limb the tailor's muscle (sartorius), 
and the sole muscle (soleus, the sole, a fish). 




THE MUSCLES AND HOW TO USE THEM 



75. A Few Muscles about the Head. We chew our food 
for the most part with the help of two strong muscles, 

called the "chewing muscles" (masse- 

ter), which move the jaws. They are 

very large and strong in flesh-eating 

animals, like the lion and the tiger. 
Turn the head suddenly to one side, 

and the sharp edge of a muscle is 

plainly seen and 

felt on each side of 

the neck : one end 

is fastened to the 

skull, the other to 

the breastbone and 

the collar bone. 

This muscle (sterno- 

cleido-mastoid) serves 

to turn and to brace 

the head. 

Inside the cheek 

is a flat muscle, called the "trumpeter's 
muscle." It is largely developed in glass 
blowers and in persons who play on wind 
instruments. 

Experiment 19. With the head slightly bent 
forward, grasp between the fingers and thumb 
of the right hand the edge of a muscle on the FlG 4I Tendons on 
left, just above the collar bone. Raise the head the Top of the Right 
and turn it from left to right, and the action of Foot, 
this important muscle (sterno-cleido-mastoid) 

is readily seen and felt. In some persons, especially with those who 
are lean or who have been seriously ill, this long, slender muscle 
stands out in bold relief. 




FIG. 40. Tendons on the 
Back of the Left Hand. 




52 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

76. Some Muscles about the Shoulder and Chest. The 

large muscle on each side of the chest is fan-shaped, and 
powerfully developed in strong men (pectoralis major). It 
helps draw the arm inward and forward. 

The large, thick muscle covering the shoulder is thought 
to resemble the Greek letter A (delta). A military officer 




FIG. 42. Principal Muscles on the Left Side of the Neck. 

wears his epaulet over this muscle. The action of the 
two-headed muscle (biceps) which bends the forearm, and 
the three-headed (triceps) which straightens it, is familiar 
under the name of ''trying your muscle." 

A three-sided muscle (trapezius) covers the shoulder 
blade, like a monk's hood, and helps move the shoulder. 



THE MUSCLES AND HOW TO USE THEM 



53 



77. Some Large Muscles of the Back and Legs. A very 
broad muscle in the back is the "climbing muscle" (latis- 
simus dorsi), which serves to pull the arm backwards. 

Three huge muscles make up the greater portion of the 
fleshy mass in the lower part of the back. They move 
the thigh backwards and help 
to keep the body erect. The 
longest muscle in the body, 
called the "tailor's muscle" (sar- 
torius), runs across the thigh in 
front. It helps us to cross the 
legs. 

Two strong muscles form 
the largest part of the calf of 
the leg. 

These muscles are constantly 
called into use in walking, cy- 
cling, standing, dancing, and 
leaping. They are of great 
strength, because in raising the 
heel they have to raise the 
weight of the body. 

The tendons of these two 
leg muscles unite to form the tendon of Achilles (Fig. 39). 




FIG. 43. Some of the Larger 
Muscles on the Back of the 
Shoulder and the Arm. 



PHYSICAL EXERCISE 

78. Why we need Physical Exercise. To keep the body 
in good health, a certain amount of physical exercise should 
be taken every day. The reason for this is plain. As we 
have learned, the tissues contain a countless number of 
little cells, to which the ever-changing blood, in its cease- 
less current, brings oxygen and nutriment. The tissues 



54 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



take what is specially suited to their wants, and return the 
waste matter. 

Now, in every tissue, especially in 
the muscular tissue, this process is 
hastened by action. Exercise causes 
more frequent changes in the tissues 
and hence an increased flow of blood. 
Muscular activity is, then, the chief 
agent in bringing about these whole- 
some tissue changes. 

79. Effects of Exercise on the Mus- 
cles. Muscles increase in size and 
strength according to the use made 
of them. The blacksmith uses vigor- 
ously the muscles of his arms and 
chest day after day, hence they be- 
come well developed. 

Let a muscle be kept idle for some 
time and it loses in bulk and vigor. 
We read of certain people in India, 
who, as an act of worship, keep one 
arm raised above the head for many 
weeks. The muscles shrivel and the 
arm becomes useless. 

If a leg is broken and kept in 
splints for several weeks, the muscles 
become feeble and wasted. It is only 
after a great deal of exercise that the 
long-idle limb regains its former size 
and vigor. 

80. Effect of Exercise on Various 
Organs. Many other organs besides 




FIG. 44. Some of the 
Larger Muscles on the 
Back of the Thigh. 

Powerful tendons at the hip 
and on the back of the 
knee are well shown. 



THE MUSCLES AND HOW TO USE THEM 



55 



the voluntary muscles become more vigorous through exer- 
cise. When we exercise the heart beats more vigorously 
and carries more blood to the tissues. Exercise causes 
the lungs to draw in an extra 
amount of fresh air and to get 
rid of more impure air. 

Again, exercise stimulates the 
organs of digestion, giving a 
good appetite by creating a de- 
mand for food. Hence the skin, 
the lungs, the kidneys, and the 
intestines have to do more work 
to get rid of the increased waste 
products. 

81. Amount of Physical Exer- 
cise. The amount of exercise 
which is necessary to keep the 
body in the best condition is a 
most important and practical 
question. Too much exercise, 
as well as too little, is a fruitful 
cause of ill health. 

Exercise beyond the point of 
fatigue only does harm, while 
judicious exercise with suitable 
rest is of real benefit. 

It may be laid down as a safe 
rule that a person of average 
height and weight, engaged in 
study or any other indoor or in- 
active business, should have an Fl T G ' ' ( ne f , the 

Layers of Muscles of the 

amount of exercise equivalent to Neck and the Back. 




OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



a daily walk of five miles along a level road. Growing 
children, as a rule, take more exercise than this ; while 
most men in the prime of life working indoors take nothing 
like this amount, and many women take 
even less. If one's daily work is active 
and outdoor, no additional exercise is 
really necessary. The age is an impor- 
tant matter. A young man or young 
woman may easily and safely take an 
amount of exercise that might do much 
harm to a person in advanced life. 

Exercise may be varied in many 
ways, the more ways the better. But 
for the most part it should be taken 
in the open air. 

82. Time for Exercise. The best 
time to take exercise is about two 
hours after a meal. It is not well to 
do hard work or take severe exercise 
before breakfast. Those who go to 
work or study before this meal should 
first eat half a slice of bread, or a bis- 
cuit, or even drink a glass of milk, 
just enough to "stay the stomach," 
and thus save the feeling of faintness 
or "sinking." 

Just after a full meal the stomach 
is busily doing its duty. Exercise at 
this time is apt to retard its action 
and result sooner or later in dyspepsia. 
Children should not take physical exer- 
cise when they are overtired or hungry. 




FIG. 46. A Whitely 
Exerciser. 



THE MUSCLES AND HOW TO USE THEM 



57 



The evening is not the best time for exercise because the 
body is tired after the labor of the day. Ordinary work or 
moderate exercise, as walking, is beneficial at almost any 
time, except, perhaps, just after a full meal. 

83. Different Kinds of Exercise. The kind of exercise 
needed depends very much upon one's daily occupation. 
Persons who sit at desks, 

stand at counters, or 
work in close rooms, as 
clerks, teachers, tailors, 
printers, etc., are prone 
to diseases often traced 
to lack of bodily exercise 
and to foul air. 

All well persons should 
do some work or take 
some exercise every day. 
To get and to keep vigor- 
ous health it is not at all 
necessary to increase the 
size of the muscles very 
much or to do great feats 
of strength. 

84. Walking. Walk- 
ing is perhaps the most 
convenient and useful of 

all the exercises for most people. It takes us into the 
open air and bright sunlight. It puts new vigor into the 
work of many important muscles of the chest, the abdo- 
men, and the limbs. With a brisk walk every day while 
in good health, and taking care to keep warm and dry, no 
one need suffer from lack of proper exercise. 




FIG. 47. School Girl practicing on a 
Health Exerciser. 



58 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

Running, leaping, climbing, and other vigorous sports are 
well enough if they are not kept up so long as to cause 
extreme fatigue. 

85. More Vigorous Exercises. Vigorous sports, such as 
baseball and football, are severe exercises. Rowing is ad- 
mirably suited to most persons of either sex. Horseback 
and bicycle riding, 1 swimming, tennis, golf, and skating 
are important helps toward bodily vigor, and develop a 
certain amount of skill and adroitness of action. 

Certain sports also tend to beget self-reliance, coolness 
in danger, and a certain dignity and grace of person. There 
is hardly any one kind of exercise which, taken alone, is 
able to give even a fair development of all the muscles. 

86. Gymnastic Exercises. Light gymnastic exercises 
are a convenient means of developing muscles which are 
not used in ordinary work and games. 

Growing children should be trained every day at home 
or in school in the use of light wooden dumb-bells, light 
clubs, or wands. A daily exercise of ten minutes will do 

1 It is not the fashion at this time to use the bicycle so much for exercise 
as in former years. Such riding, however, tends to promote good health 
fully as much as any other form of exercise. A bicycle is always ready. 
A half-hour's spin can be taken every day, when the weather permits, by 
even the busiest. A ride of ten or even twenty miles a day, on a fairly 
level road, at a speed of not more than nine or ten miles an hour, is for most 
persons excellent exercise. 

It is especially as a heart and lung exercise that wheeling is beneficial. 
The muscular exercise involved in moderate and not too rapid cycling is 
just sufficient to induce stronger, contractions of the heart, and this results 
in increased activity of the circulation; for more blood passes through the 
lungs in a given time, and so it is aerated more efficiently. At the same 
time the heart muscle is strengthened by its increased action. In addition, 
the rapid movement in the open air and the exhilaration of the exercise 
increase the rapidity and depth of the inspirations, the lungs are expanded 
more fully, and air is forced into the smaller tubes and air chambers. 



THE MUSCLES AND HOW TO USE THEM 59 

much to develop feeble and narrow chests, to check the 
tendency to curvature of the spine and round shoulders so 
common with school children, and to give muscular strength 
and vigor to all parts of the body. 

87. Physical Exercises in Schools. Pupils should have 
some sort of physical exercises provided for them in the 




FIG. 48. Pupils in the Schoolroom of a Lower Grammar Grade 
taking an Exercise in Light Gymnastics. 

schools, which should be made a part of the regular course. 
Impure air, lack of proper ventilation, faulty positions long 
continued, and other conditions unfavorable to health, 
demand a rest for overtired muscles and overtaxed nerves. 
This is especially true in large towns and cities, where 
there is often little opportunity for outdoor games. 



6o 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



88. Beneficial Effects of Physical Exercises in Schools. 

Physical exercises in schools, if properly done, increase the 
breathing power and quicken the action of the heart. They 
fill the arteries with pure blood, and distribute it with 

increased energy to all the tis- 
sues and organs of the body, 
stimulating them to renewed 
activity. They brace up the 
whole system and at the same 
time furnish what is very impor- 
L_ ant, a pleasant recreation. 

NOTE. There are several 
excellent and inexpensive "health 
exercisers" now on the market. 
Handbooks or manuals which explain 
their use and also furnish a series of 
physical exercises accompany them. 
FIG. 49. A Simple and Inexpen- Booksellers can usually furnish cat- 
sive Home Apparatus for Exer- alogues of books, and price lists of 
else on the Horizontal Bar. the various kinds of apparatus for 

physical culture. 

The book above all others which should be read and reread by 
every one who is interested in physical education is Blackie's How to 
Get Strong and How to Stay So. It is full of stimulating, wholesome 
advice and practical suggestions to those who wish to practice health 
exercises at home or at school. 

89. The General Effect of Alcohol on the Muscles. We 
have learned that the nerves act upon the muscles and 
make them contract or relax. Now, if we drink a certain 
amount of alcoholic liquor, our muscles are acted upon in 
a peculiar way. The nerve force that controls the muscles 
is weakened, and they soon show a lack of control. 

The delicate movements which require the long training 
of certain muscles, as in doing fine work and gymnastic 







THE MUSCLES AND HOW TO USE THEM 6l 

feats, cannot be made. A person may know the right way 
of making each movement, and may succeed, after a fashion, 





FIG. 50. Showing Some of the 
Larger Muscles on the Left 
Side and Back of the Body 
that are brought into Play in 
descending a Ladder. 

From a photograph of the living 
model. 



FIG. 51. Diagrammatic View 
showing Some of the Larger 
Muscles on the Left Side 
and Back of the Body as 
exhibited in Fig. 50. 

Based upon a photograph of the 
living model. 



62 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

in doing it clumsily ; but the trained muscles are no longer 
wholly under the control of the will. If enough alcohol is 
taken, all control of the voluntary muscles may be lost, and 
deep breathing may be the only sign of life. 

90. Effect of Alcoholic Liquor upon Speech. This same 
lack of control is shown in the act of speech. Each and 
every word we utter requires special movements of the 
muscles of the tongue, palate, and throat, all acting in har- 
mony. After drinking alcoholic liquor there is less control 
of the muscles: the reins are slackened, so to speak; words 
may be left out, cut short, or misplaced. According to the 
stage of intoxication, the words are clipped, stammered, 
"mouthed," or '"thick," from loss of control of the muscles 
of the tongue and throat. 

The muscles that' move the eyes do not act in harmony; 
hence the drunken man "sees double." 

The degree of this loss of muscular control and the rapidity 
with which it is produced vary with the individual, with 
the amount, with the kind of drink, with the rate at which 
it is drunk, and with many other circumstances. 

91. Effect of Alcohol on Muscular Strength. Many 
people honestly suppose that alcohol gives them strength 
for their work and rests them when they are tired. In both 
cases they are mistaken. Instead of adding to strength 
or diminishing weariness, alcohol deadens the nerves and 
impairs the judgment. For it is shown that when the 
strength is tested with a health lift or other means, the 
habitual user of strong drink is found to be weaker after 
taking alcoholic liquor than before. After the effect of the 
alcohol has passed off the feeling of weariness is more 
intense than before, showing that the alcohol did not 
remove it but only concealed it. 






THE MUSCLES AND HOW TO USE THEM 63 

92. Effect of repeating the Amount of Alcohol. A repe- 
tition of the alcoholic drink may again create insensibility 
to the fatigued feeling, and the muscles may again obey 
the will, but only for a briefer time than before. In this 
way the man who could have put forth just so much strength 
in an emergency, and could have held out longer, accom- 
plishes less work, abuses his muscles, and deludes his mind 
by resorting to alcoholic drinks. He has also the injurious 
effects of the alcohol on other parts of his body to contend 
with afterward. 

93. How Alcohol impairs the Structure of Muscular 
Tissue. Medical men tell us that changes in the muscles, 
called " fatty degeneration," are, in many cases, the direct 
result of the long-continued use of large doses of alcohol 
and when once the process of degeneration has been set up 
even small doses appear to exert further injurious effects 
upon the diseased muscular tissues. 1 

94. Effect of Tobacco on the Muscles. Tobacco tends 
to weaken the nerve stimulus which controls muscular 

1 It has been demonstrated on all sides, at the forge, in the workshop, 
in the field, on the march, in the arctic region and in the torrid zone, in 
physical and in intellectual labor, that the spirit drinker fails to cope with 
the temperate man. WILLARD PARKER, M.D., for many years Professor 
of Surgery in the New York College of Physicians and Surgeons. 

All medical authorities are agreed that in periods of prolonged physical 
labor, more and better work will be done by men who slake their thirst on 
non-intoxicating drinks than by those who drink large quantities of beer. 
British Medical Journal. 

The disadvantageous effect of alcohol on persons performing mus- 
cular work is well known, and the evidence is overwhelming that alcohol 
in small amounts has a most deleterious effect on voluntary muscular 
work. VICTOR HORSLEY, in Lees and Rapier Memorial Lecture. 

No amount of alcohol, however given, can increase the amount of 
work done in that same period without giving rise to very serious disturb- 
ances in other parts of the body ; indeed, the amount of work done is 
never really increased. G. SIMS WOODHEAD, M.D. 



64 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

movement. The result is well illustrated in the unsteady 
hand of the inveterate cigarette smoker when he attempts 
to draw a straight line or do other nice work which requires 
precision of touch. 

95. Alcohol and the Operations of Armies. The armies 
of the great nations are often called upon to undertake at 
short notice long campaigns in almost every climate of the 
world. A modern army is built up and handled upon a 
strictly scientific plan. 

Many experiments have been made upon large armies to 
test the value of a daily ration of alcoholic liquor to men 
exposed to the dangers of tropical climates and forced to 
endure every variety of hardship. The results of these 
experiments upon the British armies during the recent 
arduous Boer campaigns in South Africa show that the 
soldiers could endure longer marches with no strong 
drink than when it was allowed them as a part of their 
daily fare. England's ablest generals, who handle their 
armies upon a scientific basis, have strictly forbidden 
the supply of alcoholic liquor to any troops under their 
command. 1 

Experiments go to show that while the men were able 
to do an increased amount of work for a very short time 

1 We learn that they took this step on two grounds. First, on the 
ground that from long experience they were convinced that the physical 
condition of the troops would, under these conditions, be enormously 
improved, and the men would have much greater staying power, while 
their dash, determination, and steadiness would also be increased. The 
second ground appears to have been that the mental and moral stamina of 
the troops would be preserved in a far greater degree than could possibly 
be the case if alcohol were served out. The result has been that the health, 
spirits, and conduct of the troops have been the admiration of all those who 
have had dealings with them, and this experiment on a large scale has been 
an unqualified success. G. SIMS WOODHEAD, M.D. 






THE MUSCLES AND HOW TO USE THEM 



under the influence of alcohol, they did not bear well sus- 
tained labor or exposure. The men of the various regi- 
ments that were served with liquor began their marching 
well, but after a short time it was found that they lagged 




FIG. 52. Showing Some of the 
Muscles of the Body that are 
brought into Play in Punting. 

From a photograph of the living 
model. 



FIG. 53. Diagrammatic View of 
the Larger Muscles of the Back 
and Legs as shown in Fig. 52. 

Based upon a photograph of the living 
model. 



and were surpassed at the end of the day's march by those 
soldiers who had not been served with a daily dram of 
strong drink. 

96. Alcoholic Liquors in the Navy. The modern battle 
ship with its improved machinery and equipment and its 
large quota of men is entirely unlike the wooden men of war 



66 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

of a generation ago. Naval experts are making a scientific 
study of every detail which may insure the best results. 
Experiments show that in skill and accuracy of movement, 
with power to endure, the man behind the gun who has 
taken no alcohol has an advantage over one who has. 

On England's battle ships supplies of oatmeal and water 
placed in different parts of the ship take the place of grog 
when the fight is on. A few years ago every English sailor 
had his double ration of rum during battle to " fortify " him 
for his work. 

For these many years no daily rations of alcoholic liquor 
of any kind have been served to the men on board of 
American men of war. 

During the recent war with Spain no better work was 
ever done than by our gunners who fought at Manila and 
Santiago. And yet the accuracy of the firing of the great 
guns in these two battles was accomplished by men who 
were served freely with oatmeal and water instead of the 
old-fashioned double ration of grog. A cool, clear head and 
a steady hand are necessary for accurate firing. A modern 
naval commander cannot afford to take chances with gun- 
ners who lack absolute control over themselves through 
indulgence in rations of strong liquor. 

97. Effect of Alcohol and Tobacco on Physical Develop- 
ment. The main object of physical exercise is to keep 
our bodies in such a condition that the average amount of 
working power can be utilized at any time without harm 
to the bodily health. To keep up this high standard of 
physical power and endurance we must observe what have 
been proved to be the essentials to health. 

One essential rule for securing and keeping perfect 
health is never to drink alcoholic liquors or to use tobacco. 



THE MUSCLES AND HOW TO USE THEM 67 

Strong drink and tobacco will put to naught the most 
elaborate and costly system of physical training. Men 
who train athletes, baseball and football players, oarsmen, 
and all others who take part in severe physical contests, 
understand this, and rigidly forbid their men to indulge in 
alcoholic drinks or even to smoke or to chew tobacco. 

Experience has proved beyond all doubt that strong drink 
is a positive injury, either when men are in training for 
or undergoing contests demanding long-continued physical 
endurance. No smoker who has ever trained severely for 
a race or a game needs to be told that smoking reduces 
the tone of his system ; he knows it. 

The same law holds good in the ordinary physical exer- 
cises of everyday life. Alcohol and tobacco act as poisons 
to the nervous tissue which controls the muscles, and thus 
lessen the amount of muscular power and endurance. 

The demands of modern life call for a sound body. He 
who indulges in alcoholic drinks or tobacco runs a risk of 
having a weak body instead of a sound one. 1 

1 Total abstinence from alcohol and tobacco is required from all competi- 
tors while in training for athletic games and races. A man who, after elec- 
tion as a member of his college crew, should be found secretly drinking beer 
or smoking would be hissed out of college. H. NEWELL MARTIN, M.D. 

The tobacco habit is injurious to health, to scholarship, and to charac- 
ter. It weakens the will, diminishes the power of application, and lowers 
the tone of thought and feeling. Excessive smokers are uniformly poor 
scholars. W. D. HYDE, D.D., President of Bowdoin College. 

No railroad, electric-car, steamboat, telegraph, or telephone company, no 
manufacturing concern or printing house will to-day, if they can help it, 
employ a man who is a regular drinker, to say nothing of a drunkard. 
Safety first forced this action on certain corporations and others have fol- 
lowed out of economy, and it will not be long before no concern will be 
able to afford to employ the man who drinks. HENRY GRAFTON CHAP- 
MAN, in The World's Work. 



68 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT 

I. What is the source of the active powers of the body? 2. In 
general, how are these active powers manifested? 3. How are 
the bodily movements produced? 4. What is muscle? Illustrate. 
5. Give a few illustrations of the work of muscles. 6. Upon what is 
all motion in our bodies dependent? 7. Name the two great kinds 
of muscles. 8. How do these two kinds of muscles differ from each 
other? 9. What is the general build of the voluntary muscles? 
10. How does voluntary muscle look under the microscope ? 

II. Describe the involuntary muscles and the appearance of their 
tissues under the microscope. 12. What is meant by muscular contrac- 
tion? 13. What is the object of contraction? 14. What is meant 
by muscular coordination ? 15. What are tendons ? Illustrate. 16. In 
a general way, how are muscles named? 17. What muscles of the 
head can you mention ? of the shoulder and the chest ? of the back and 
the legs? 18. Why do we need physical exercise? 19. In general, 
what is the effect of exercise on the muscles? Illustrate. 20. What 
is the effect of exercise on various important organs ? 

21. What can you say about the amount of physical exercise needed ? 
22. What is the best time for exercise ? 23. Upon what does the 
kind of exercise depend ? 24. What can you say about walking as 
an exercise? about the more vigorous exercises? 25. What is the 
object of gymnastic exercises ? 26. What good results may be due 
to such exercises ? 27. Why do we need physical exercises in school ? 

28. What are some of the beneficial results of such exercises? 

29. What is the general effect of alcohol on the muscles ? 30. What 
is the effect of alcoholic liquor upon speech ? 

31. Describe the effect of alcohol upon muscular strength. 32. What 
is the effect of taking alcohol repeatedly ? 33. Explain the effect of 
alcohol upon the structure of muscular tissue. 34. What is the effect 
of tobacco on the muscles? 35. Tell what you can of the effect of 
alcohol upon the operations of armies. 36. Explain and illustrate the 
effect of alcohol and tobacco on physical development 



CHAPTER IV 
FOOD AND DRINK 

98. Why we must have Food. In a general way, the 
body is often compared to a steam engine in good running 
order. Our bodies, like the locomotive, move about, and 
are warm, because a slow fire is always burning in them. 
This fire, like that of the engine, needs fresh fuel from 
time to time. Food is to our bodies what coal and wood 
are to the engine. 

Without fuel and air the fire in the engine will go out. 
So it is with the fire that is slowly burning in the body. 
Without food and air this bodily fire would die out, and 
we should soon perish. When coal or wood is burned 
smoke and ashes are formed. When food is burned in the 
body it forms waste matter, which is got rid of as speedily 
as possible. 

99. How the Waste is made Good by the Food we eat. 
Everybody knows that a steam engine wears out and 
needs repair from time to time. So it is with the body. 
Every beat of the heart, every contraction of a muscle, 
and even our very thoughts, lead to waste. This tissue 
change is so complete that not a particle of our present 
bodies will be ours a short time hence. 

Something must be taken into the body to make up for 
this continued loss of substance. The new material thus 
used for restoring the waste tissues is the food we eat. If 

69 



70 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

but little or no food is taken, or if it is not of the right 
sort, the body slowly loses in weight. If we try to do 
without food, we grow chilly, feeble, faint, and, after a 
time, too weak to move. 



THE CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS 

100. Four Great Classes of Food. For convenience we 
may divide food into four great classes, to which the name 
food stuffs, or alimentary principles, has been given. 1 

I. Proteids, or nitrogenous foods 

II. Starches and sugars, or carbohydrates 

V III. Fats and oils 

\ IV. Inorganic, or mineral foods 

101. Proteids or Nitrogenous Foods. The proteids, fre- 
quently spoken of as nitrogenous foods, contain all the mate- 
rials needed to build up and repair the tissues. They 
contain nitrogen, carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen, which 
form the four essential elements of all food. 

The type of this class of foods is egg albumin, familiar 
as the white of an egg. Lean meat, the cheesy part or 
curd of milk, peas, and beans are rich in proteids. Wheat, 
barley, oats, and Indian corn also contain them. 

The proteids are essential food stuffs, as they are neces- 
sary to life. Without them the tissues of the body would 
gradually waste away. They supply the material from 

1 To this classification may be added what are called albuminoids, a 
group of bodies resembling proteids, but having in some respects a different 
nutritive value. Gelatin, such as is found in soups or table gelatin, is a 
familiar example of the albuminoids. They are not found to any important 
extent in our raw foods. 



FOOD AND DRINK /I 

which new tissue is built up or old tissue is repaired. 
The burning up or oxidation of the proteids may give rise 
to heat. 

Experiment 20. To test for proteid with the white of egg. As 
a type of a group of proteids let us take the white of an egg, or 
egg albumin. Place a few drops of the raw white of egg in a test 
tube. Dilute it with a tablespoonful'of water. Heat it over a flame. 
The mixture will soon begin to turn white, and become thicker, or, in 
other words, to coagulate. 

Experiment 21. To show grain albumin or gluten. Take a small 
mass of dough made of wheat flour; tie it in a piece of cotton cloth 
and knead it under water until all the starch is washed out. The 
sticky, stringy mass remaining on the cloth is gluten, made up of 
albumin, some of the ash, and fats. 

Experiment 22. To show milk albumin or casein. Heat a little 
sweet milk in a test tube or basin. It will not coagulate or. curdle. 
Add a few drops of vinegar and gently stir. The milk curdles and 
separates into a solid curd (casein, the chief proteid of milk and fat) 
and a yellowish fluid (the whey). 

102. Starches and Sugars. The starches and sugars, also 
called carbohydrates, contain carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, 
but no nitrogen. This class of foods forms a large part 
of all those plants which are generally used as articles 
of diet. 

The starches stand first in importance among the vari- 
ous vegetable foods. Wheat, barley, oats, rye, rice, maize, 
tapioca, arrowroot, sago, potatoes, etc., are rich in starch. 

The sugars are widely distributed substances and include 
cane, grape, malt, maple, and milk sugars. Honey and 
molasses are sugar foods. 

Cellulose is a carbohydrate that cannot be digested. Of 
it the bark and the fibers of fruit, cereals, and vegetables 
are composed. 



72 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

The carbohydrates are burnt up in the body, and set 
free a considerable amount of energy. The energy called 
for in muscular work and that which is transformed into 
bodily heat come largely from their oxidation. 

Experiment 23. To test for starch. The test for starch is a very 
weak solution of iodine, the addition of which to starch will result 
in a blue color. Pour a tablespoonful of the starchy water obtained 
from Experiment 21 into a test tube and boil. The starch dissolves 
and the solution becomes translucent. If a drop or two of very weak 
solution of iodine be added to the cold starch solution, a blue color 
will result. 1 

Experiment 24. Secure a specimen of the various kinds of flour 
and meal, peas, beans, farina, sago, cornstarch, rice, and tapioca. 
Boil a small quantity of each in a test tube for some minutes. Put 
a bit of each thus cooked on a white plate and test for starch by 
adding two or three drops of very weak solution of iodine. Note the 
various changes of color, blue, greenish, orange, or yellowish. 

Experiment 25. To test for sugar. The test for sugar is Fehling's 
solution (easily obtained of the druggist in the form of solution or in 
tablets). The little white grains found in raisins are grape sugar 
or glucose. Milk sugar is readily bought of the druggist. Dissolve 
one quarter of a teaspoonful of grape or milk sugar in a test tube 
one quarter full of water. Add an equal amount of Fehling's solution 
and bring the mixture to a boil. Note that an orange or brick-red 
precipitate settles to the bottom of the tube. 2 

103. Fats and Oils. The chief fats and oils used as food 
are those of meat, eggs, butter, and milk, also the various 

1 The tincture of iodine cannot be diluted with water, but it can be 
diluted with a saturated solution of potassium iodide. A few crystals of 
iodine may be dissolved in a saturated solution of potassium iodide to make 
an amber-colored or pale brown solution. 

2 Fehling's solution does not keep well. Make a fresh solution shortly 
before it is to be used. Before using, test it by boiling a small quantity in 
a clean test tube. If it does not keep its clean blue color, a fresh supply 
should be prepared before making any tests. 



FOOD AND DRINK 73 

vegetable oils. Most of the breadstuffs contain more or 
less fat. The fats and oils are rich in carbon and hydro- 
gen but contain little oxygen. They are more valuable 
than the starches and sugars as sources of energy, but the 
latter are more easily digested. 

104. Mineral Salts. Besides the food stuffs which are 
obtained from the animal and vegetable kingdoms, our 
bodies must have a certain amount of mineral matter. 

The principal mineral foods are water, salt, iron, lime, 
magnesia, phosphorus, and potash, which are present both 
in vegetable foods and in meat. Except water and common 
salt, the mineral substances usually enter the body only in 
combination with other food stuffs. 

Some of the salts of food play an important part in 
directing the chemical changes that take place in the 
tissues of the body. Others give hardness to the bones 
and the teeth. 

Experiment 26. To test cereals for fat. Mix an even teaspoonful 
of Indian meal, oatmeal, or rye meal with an equal volume of ben- 
zine. As its vapor is highly inflammable, the greatest caution must 
be exercised not to handle it near a flame or a hot stove. Stir care- 
fully and filter the mixture after it has stood for fifteen minutes to get 
rid of the ether odor. Evaporate some of the filtrate on a watch 
glass. A greasy residue is left, which may be shown by rubbing it 
on a piece of tissue or rice paper. 

Experiment 27. Evaporate a small quantity of milk to dryness in 
an open dish. After the dry residue is obtained, continue to apply 
heat ; observe that it chars and gives off pungent gases. Raise the 
temperature until it is red hot, then allow the dish to cool; a fine 
white ash will be left behind. This represents the mineral matter 
of the milk, which does not burn. 

The preceding experiment shows that a great part of milk is made 
up of water. The residue is the solid substance. The loss of weight 
is due chiefly to the loss of water. 



74 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

105. Condiments or Appetizers. Certain substances are 
used by man to give flavor to tasteless foods, thus pro- 
ducing an increased flow of the digestive juices and a better 
digestion. These substances, such as pepper, nutmeg, 
cloves, mustard, ginger, and similar appetizers, are called 
condiments. Such stimulating foods may be used in safety 
only in moderation. 



IMPORTANT ARTICLES OF DIET 

106. Different Kinds of Bread. There is no single food 
in the world which meets so many necessary wants of the 
body as bread, "the staff of life." It is made from the 
flour of wheat, oats, rye, Indian corn, and other cereals. 

Wheat flour gives us starch, sugar, and gluten, a form 
of proteid food. Hence wheat bread contains nearly every- 
thing to support life except fat. When we eat bread and 
butter we have a nearly perfect food. 

Corn meal is rich in nitrogen and has much oily matter. 
It is highly nutritious and a cheap article of food. Oatmeal 
is richer than flour in nitrogen and fat, and is therefore 
more nutritious. Rice, though rich in starch, is one of the 
least nutritious of all the cereals. 

107. Vegetables and Fruits. The common or white potato 
is a most important article of diet. Although it is more 
than two thirds water and has little nutriment, yet it is easily 
digested. Sweet potatoes are rich in starch and sugar. 

Ripe fruits, such as apples, pears, peaches, strawberries, 
grapes, bananas, melons, oranges, etc., though not of much 
nutritive value, are a useful addition to our regular diet. 
They are prized for their agreeable flavor and for the salts 
which they contain. 



FOOD AND DRINK 75 

Sugar and molasses are both largely used in cooking. 
Their nutritive value is about the same as that of starch. 
Peas and beans contain more nitrogen than any of the 
cereals and are as rich in carbon. 

108. Garden Vegetables. Various kinds of fresh and juicy 
garden vegetables, as celery, lettuce, cucumbers, radishes, and 
tomatoes, are widely used for their agreeable flavor. They 
give a pleasant variety and relish to other articles of food. 
They furnish little nutriment but are rich in salts. 

109. Milk and Eggs. Milk is the food of all others 
which affords nourishment in the simplest and most con- 
venient form. This ideal food contains a large quantity of 
water, casein, sugar, and fat. 

Eggs have a large amount of nutriment in a small bulk. 
They are usually easily digested. 

110. Meats. Meats, for the most part, consist of the 
muscles of the various animals. The most common are 
beef, mutton, lamb, veal, and pork. They are important 
articles of diet and as a whole are easily digested, except, 
perhaps, veal and pork. Fish is at once a cheap and a nour- 
ishing food. Poultry is a useful, light article of food, easy 
to digest, and providing a great deal of nourishment. 

111. Mineral Foods. There is about a half pound of 
common salt in the body, but we are continually losing it. 
Tears, we know, contain salt, and it is also found in the 
sweat. Many people think they do not eat any common 
salt because they do not take it by itself ; but they forget 
that many of the foods they eat, such as bread and meat, 
contain a little of it. 

The salts of potash are chiefly found in the vegetables 
we eat, especially lettuce. These salts are needed in the 
blood. The salts of lime make the bones hard and strong. 



76 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

An iron salt is found in very small quantities in many of 
the foods we eat. It helps make good blood. Sulphur is 
obtained from the yolk of eggs. 

112. Water. Drink is of just as much importance as 
solid food. Every one knows what happens to plants 
when they are deprived of water. They first droop and 
then soon afterwards wither and die. So also it is with 
all animals. If they are deprived of their drink, they also 
droop and at last die. 

Water is the agent which has been provided by nature to 
wash the food through the living tissues. Wild animals, 
as well as domestic, take no other drink but water. Pure 
water is the only drink that is absolutely essential for good 
health. Thousands of human beings, following the exam- 
ple of the lower animals, drink nothing but water, but yet 
toil long and hard and keep well and strong. 

To be suitable for drinking, water should be clear, with- 
out color, with little or no taste or smell, and free from any 
great amount of animal or vegetable matter. 1 

1 There is a definite group of diseases which are especially liable to be 
spread by means of bacteria in drinking water. Among these are such 
diseases as typhoid fever and cholera. 

The appearance of the water is by no means conclusive, for it may be 

beautifully clear and palatable, yet 
contam myriads of deadly bacteria; 
or it may be muddy and of a disagree- 
able odor and taste, and yet contain 
nothing of a really harmful nature. 
The on ly wav by which absolute cer- 
tainty can be had lies in a chemical 
and bacteriological analysis, repeated 
FIG. 54. A Group of the More Com- at regular intervals. 

mon Bacteria found in Water. No water at our command upon 

the surface of the earth is absolutely 

free from bacteria. Spring water is the purest, and water from deep arte- 
sian wells is about equally pure. Water from lakes and reservoirs is next 



FOOD AND DRINK 77 

113. The Use of Water in the Body. It is plain that if 
we take a quart or more of water every day, nearly an equal 
amount must be thrown out from the body. Some of it 
steams away with the breath. More of it passes through 
the pores of the skin as perspiration, and still more is 
drained away through the kidneys. Thus, water drains off 
a great deal of waste matter from the body. A great 
amount must be supplied, especially in hot weather, to 
make good this loss. 

This topic is more fully treated in Chapter IX. 

114. Drinking in Hot Weather. One of the most com- 
mon of all drinks used in this country is ice water. The 
temptation to drink freely of it in hot weather is rarely 
resisted. It should be sipped slowly and only a small 
amount taken at a time. 

It is a dangerous thing to drink ice water in great gulps 
when overheated. The proper way is to rinse the mouth 
and take slowly a few swallows. It is always to be remem- 
bered that very little cold water is really needed to quench 
thirst and refresh the heated body. 1 

115. Refreshing Drinks. The greater portion of every 
drink is water ; but, in various ways, other substances are 
mixed with the water to give it a pleasant taste. 

Many kinds of refreshing drinks, made up for the most 
part of flavored water slightly charged with carbonic acid 

in purity, and water derived directly from flowing streams and rivers is most 
likely to contain these organisms in greatest numbers. The most danger- 
ous water for drinking purposes is that of rivers which have been contami- 
nated in any way by sewage material, a condition of things true of the 
water usd in some cities. H. W. CONN'S Bacteria, Yeasts, and Molds. 

1 When overheated, and before drinking cold water, it is always prudent 
to pour water slowly over the inside of each wrist (over the radial artery), 
or allow it to run from the faucet. This helps greatly to cool and refresh 
the body and to lessen the amount of water needed to quench thirst. 



78 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

gas, are widely used. They are known by a great variety 
of names, as ginger ale, soda water, and the like. When 
taken in moderation they are harmless. Tea, coffee, and 
chocolate are the more common artificial drinks. 

116. The Effect of drinking Tea and Coffee. Tea and 
coffee have little or no value as foods. Some persons 
cannot drink even a single cup of coffee or tea without 
feeling worse for it : headache, indigestion, heartburn, 
wakefulness at night, and constipation are the most com- 
mon after effects. Strong tea should never be used. 

Hard-working women and others, from choice or neces- 
sity, too often make their meals of dry toast and several 
cups of strong tea. Taken in excess, tea may disturb 
the action of the heart and produce the peculiar beating 
known as palpitation. 

117. Cooking. The art of cooking and serving food 
well plays an important part in the matter of health, 
and thus of comfort and happiness. Food is more readily 
chewed and more easily digested after it is properly cooked. 
Thus, raw meat' is tough and tenacious, but may become 
tender and palatable after it is cooked. Vegetables and 
cereals are softened by cooking so that they are more 
easily acted upon by the digestive fluids. Cooking also 
brings out flavors in food which stir the appetite and 
promote the flow of digestive fluids. 

Again, cooking kills any minute parasites or germs of 
disease that may exist in raw food. 

Thus, proper cooking not only adds to the comfort and 
health of daily living but also removes some important 
causes of disease. 

Every young person should be taught to cook properly 
a few of the more common and important articles of food. 



FOOD AND DRINK 79 



QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT 

I. To illustrate work, waste, and repair, how may we compare our 
bodies to a steam engine ? 2. How is the waste made good in the 
steam engine, and also in our bodies? 3. What are the four great 
classes of foods ? 4. What chemical elements do the proteid foods 
contain? 5. Why are the proteids necessary to life? 6. In what 
articles of diet do we find proteids ? 7. What chemical elements do 
the starches and sugars contain ? 8. Give some familiar examples 
of this class of foods. 9. In what articles of diet are the fats and 
oils found? 10. What is meant by the mineral salts? 

II. What is meant by condiments? Illustrate. 12. What can you tell 
of the importance of bread as an article of diet ? 13. Mention some 
vegetables and fruits that are used for food. 14. What garden vege- 
tables are commonly used for food? 15. Why are milk and eggs 
important articles of diet ? 16. What are some of the principal food 
materials of animal origin? 17. What is the use of the mineral 
foods? 18. Why is water important as an article of diet? 19. What 
properties must water possess in order to be fit for use as an article 
of diet ? 20. What becomes of the water that is taken into the body ? 

21. What can you say of the use of ice water ? 22. Of the use of 
other refreshing drinks? 23. Explain in a general way the harmful 
effects of drinking tea and coffee. 24. What are the objects of cook- 
ing food? 25. Why is the knowledge of proper cooking necessary 
to health ? 

NOTE. A series of most interesting experiments may be planned 
by teachers and pupils on the subject of food, and drink. It should 
be our object to understand the few general principles which underlie 
the matter of our daily food. We should aim to become familiar with 
the principal substances contained in the four great classes of foods. 
We can do this by exhibiting specimens and by experiment. 

The teacher should show specimens of the various cereals, starches, 
sugars, fats, oils, etc., which have been carefully collected and kept 
for class use in wide-mouthed bottles bought at the drug store. Small 
radish or pickle bottles will answer every purpose. Each specimen 
should be neatly labeled with its exact name. 



CHAPTER V 
ORIGIN AND NATURE OF FERMENTED DRINKS 

118. Healthful Juices from Ripe Fruits. If we are 

thirsty and we do not wish to drink water, we can relieve 
our thirst by the juice of ripe fruits, like grapes, oranges, 
apples, pears, and peaches. These fruit juices are made 
up largely of water sweetened with sugar which nature 
prepares in them as the fruit ripens, and each is flavored 
according to its kind. Such juices, as we use them fresh 
from the fruit, are refreshing and healthful. 

Now, if we crush one of these ripe fruits and pour a little 
of its juice into a tumbler and let it stand in the air of 
ordinary temperature, we all know what will happen. It 
will remain a healthful drink for a few hours only. A scum 
appears on the surface, bubbles begin to rise, and there is 
an unpleasant taste to the liquid. In brief, we say that the 
fruit juice has turned sour or has begun to "work." 

119. Decay a Great Law of Nature. All animal and 
vegetable matter, as we have learned in the Introduction, 
is made up of various simple substances, gases, liquids, 
and solids. Now, it is one of nature's laws that when plant 
or animal matter ceases to live, the different substances 
composing it shall be set free for use again in forming 
new combinations. A living thing, like a plant or animal, 
dies and is exposed to the contact of air. To the life 
which has left it, succeeds life under other forms. 

80 






NATURE OF FERMENTED DRINKS 8 1 

When we see meat or vegetables spoiling, bread or 
cheese molding, fruit rotting, or milk turning sour, we 
simply see a few of the countless examples of nature's 
great law of decay. This " working " or souring only 
represents the first step of the return to the atmosphere 
and to the soil of all that has lived. 

120. Fermentation. The "working," or fermenting, as 
it is called, of sweet fruit, plant, or other vegetable juices, 
which takes place very soon after they are pressed out, is 
another and familiar ex- 
ample of the same wise 

provision of nature. This 
last process is not accom- 
panied by foul -smelling 
odors, as are most of the 
others, but by a peculiar 

bubbling of the liquid FIG. 55. Showing the Comparative 

caused by the escaping Size of Molds (-,), Yeast (* and,), 

and Bacteria (ct}. 

gases ; hence the name 

"fermentation," which is taken from a Latin word meaning 

to boil. 

Fermentation in its widest sense includes the changes 
going on in the putrefying meat, the molding cheese, and 
the rotting fruit, as well as in the ferrnenting fruit juice. 
They are all forms of decomposition that set free the sim- 
pler substances composing animal and vegetable matter. 
For all these one law holds good. It is this : 

Fermentation entirely changes the nature of the substance fer- 
mented. 

121. The Importance of Bacteria in Nature's Work of 
Decay. What causes all these various processes of de- 
composition ? Are plants and animals so constructed that 




82 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

when they have served their purpose they fall to pieces of 
themselves, or from the action of the air, as was once sup- 
posed ? No ; the microscope has revealed to us whole 
tribes and families of minute living forms known as yeast, 
mold, and bacteria. It is the special work of these tiny 
organisms to change dead animal and vegetable matter 
into useful substances. In brief, bacteria prepare food 
for all the rest of the world. 

Were it not for these countless myriads of living organ- 
isms, the whole surface of the earth would in time be cov- 
ered with dead trees and other lifeless bodies, and there 
would be no simple substances left out of which to build 
up new ones. Were all living forms that are silently at 
work bringing about these wonderful results destroyed, 
life upon the earth would be impossible. 

122. Living Forms that cause Disease. Among these 
minute living forms are some that do not even wait for a 
., -.;v.:;, plant or animal to die 

before attacking it. 
Such are the disease 
germs which are invisi- 




* 

b vK^^X/^'^?/ kl e to tne naked eye and 

of an infinite variety of 
form and manner of life. 
They lurk in the air we 

FIG. 56. Showing the Effect of Variations breathe ' the X OCCUr in 
in Temperature on Bacteria Growth. the water we drink; 

a, a single bacterium ; b, its progeny in twenty- they are found in Our 

milk supply, ready to 
cause sickness if they 

gain access to our bodies, unless our bodies are strong 

enough to resist them. 



NATURE OF FERMENTED DRINKS 83 

123. Bacteria, the Active Agents of Fermentation. The 

myriads of living creatures that play this part as active 
agents in the process of fermentation are grouped under 
the family, or generic, name of bacteria. 

The words germs, microbes, and microorganisms are often 
used with the same meaning as the term "bacteria." 

Bacteria are very low forms of plant life, of which 
there are many varieties. They are roughly divided into 
groups, according as they are spherical, rodlike, or spiral 
in shape. It is now known that a large number of species 
of bacteria exist, but that some forms which have been 
described are simply stages in the life history of other 
forms. 

It is impossible for us to realize how small these agents 
of fermentation are. Some of the rod-shaped are from 
a twelve-thousandth to an eight-thousandth of an inch 
long, and average about a fifty-thousandth of an inch in 
diameter. It has been calculated that two hundred and 
fifty millions of minute organisms would not weigh more 
than one milligram (Sees. 419-426). 

124. Mold. To this great family of bacteria belong 
certain low forms of plant life familiar as mold. This is a 
low form of fungous growth which is often seen upon decay- 
ing wood or old leather. It is this fine, furlike coating 
which spoils our bread and cheese, causes our sauce to 
sour, and our fruit to rot. 

The work of some kinds of molds may be apparent to 
the eye, as in the growths that form on old leather and 
on stale bread and cheese. The work of other kinds of 
molds goes on unseen, as when acids are formed in stewed 
fruits. One kind of mold devours our preserves; another 
turns our bread sour. One kind is nourished at the 



84 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

expense of our fruits ; and another develops itself on 
paper, on the inside of books, and on their bindings, 
when they come in contact with a damp wall. Some forms 
of skin disease, like ringworm, are caused by the growth 
of this microscopic plant on the skin. 




FIG. 57. A Piece of Bread upon which One of the Common Molds, 
known as Mucor, is growing. 

125. Different Forms of Fermentation. There is no one 
particular form of bacteria which can be called the micro- 
organism of fermentation, but there are a number of fer- 
mentations each started by some special form of agent. 
We must remember, however, that fermentation nearly 
always consists of a process of breaking down of complex 
bodies, like sugar, into simpler ones, like alcohol and car- 
bonic acid. Of these fermentations we have the alcoholic, 
by which alcohol is produced ; the acetous, by which wine 
absorbs oxygen from the air and becomes vinegar; and the 



NATURE OF FERMENTED DRINKS 



lactic, which sours milk. The ammonia smell about stables 
is caused by another form of fermentation due to the break- 
ing down of compounds of nitrogen into ammonia. 

When the word "fermentation" is used alone, alcoholic 
fermentation is usually meant. 

126. Alcoholic Fermentation. The fermentation of sweet 
fruit, plant, or other vegetable juices, composed largely of 
water containing sugar and flavoring matters, is based upon 
the growth of a class of microscopic plants commonly known 
as yeasts. This ceaseless action of minute forms of plant 
life is closely al- 
lied to that of 
bacteria. 

There are many 
varieties of the 
yeast plant which 
grow on the sur- 
faces and stems 
of fruit as it is 
ripening. While 
the fruit remains 
whole these germs 

have no power to FlG> 5^- Showing One of the More Common 

invade the juice, 
and even when 
the skins are 
broken the condi- 
tions are less favorable for their work than for that of the 
molds, which are the cause of the rotting of fruit. 

But when fruit is crushed and its juice pressed out, these 
yeast germs are carried into it and cause a breaking up of 
the sugar and a rearrangement of its elements. 




Molds found on Fruit and Bread. 

The tiny stalks grow vertically into the air. The end of 
each thread swells into a small round knob, from the 
inside of which hundreds of minute bodies, called scores, 
burst. At a is seen a large knob filled with spores. 



86 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

Two new substances are formed out of the material 
that composed the sugar. One substance is carbon dioxide, 
a gas that passes up and out of the liquid in the form of 
bubbles. 

The other substance is alcohol, a liquid and a poison, which 
remains in the fermenting fluid. 

127. Change wrought by Alcoholic Fermentation. It is a 
law of nature that fermentation changes the character of 
the substance fermented. Fresh fruit juice that has not 
begun to ferment is good and wholesome. With the begin- 
ning of fermentation its nature begins to change. When 
all, or nearly all, of the sugar in the fruit juice has been 
changed to alcohol, the effect of the wine thus resulting 
upon the person who drinks it will be very different from 
the effect of the same quantity of fresh fruit juice. 

A great variety of plant structures, such as the juice of 
ripe grapes, pears, apples, and other fruits, and infusions of 
barley, corn, rye, wheat, and other grains have been used 
by man in the manufacture of alcoholic beverages. But 
whatever the substance used, whenever a sweet liquid is 
made to undergo alcoholic fermentation the result is a 
liquid containing alcohol and therefore dangerous for use 
as a beverage. 

128. Wine. One of the most common alcoholic bever- 
ages is wine, made chiefly from the juice of grapes. Home- 
made wines are often made from the juice of currants, 
blackberries, tomatoes, and other fruits rich in sugar. As 
the juice is pressed out of the crushed fruit, the yeast fer- 
ments which are in the air as well as on the stems and 
skins are washed into a vat. Here the ferments bud and 
multiply rapidly as fermentation begins. In a short time 
the sugary juice that was sweet and wholesome while in 



NATURE OF FERMENTED DRINKS 



the fruit has been changed into a liquid containing carbon 
dioxide which escapes as bubbles of gas into the air, and 
alcohol which remains in the fluid. 1 

Most wines after fermentation contain from five to four- 
teen per cent of alcohol. When the fourteen per cent 
limit is reached these 
germs are unable to 
continue their work. 

129. The Danger 
from Wines. One 
of the gravest dan- 
gers of wine drink- 
ing is the power 
which the alcohol in 
it has to create a 
craving for more and 
stronger alcoholic 
beverages. We must 
remember that the 
power of alcohol to 
create this craving 
is not affected by the 
quantity in any given 
liquor. It is claimed, 
for instance, that the 
light table wines, be- 
cause they contain a smaller amount of alcohol than others, 
'are less harmful ; but the alcohol in even the lightest 

1 The ferments have no power of themselves to penetrate the unbroken 
skin of the healthy fruit. Louis PASTEUR, M.D. 

The bloom on the outside of the skin of the grape is full of ferment 
germs awaiting an opportunity to feed upon, and so to ferment, the sugary 
juice inside. W. T. SEDGWICK, PH.D. 




d e 

FIG. 59. Showing a Bit of Common Yeast 
Cake when mixed with Water and exam- 
ined under the Microscope. 

Very highly magnified. 

There are large numbers of minute oval bodies, 
inside of which may commonly be seen one or 
more smaller bodies known as vacuoles, shown 
in a and b. c shows a nucleus, n, inside of the 
yeast cell ; d shows a budding cell with the nu- 
cleus dividing; e shows the cell divided, the new 
cell containing a bit of the old nucleus. 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



table wines has power to create the alcoholic craving. The 
theory that the use of light wines will prevent the use of 
stronger drinks, and so diminish drunkenness, is disproved 
by the history of countries where such wines have come 

into general use. 1 

130. Beer. Certain fer- 
mented drinks are called 
malt liquors. These are 
beer, ale, and porter, which 
are made from barley and 
other grains. By keeping 
the grain warm and moist 
until it is sprouted, the starch 
is turned to sugar. This is 
FIG. 60. Organisms found upon the done because the yeast germ 




Skin of a Grape and concerned in 
the Fermentation of Wine. 



will not act upon starch. 

Heat is applied to kill the 
sprouts, so that the budding plant will not use up the sugar 
as food. The grain, then called malt, is ground or mashed, 
a.nd soaked in water. To the sweet liquid thus obtained is 
added the yeast ferment and hops. 

Let us now remember what takes place. The yeast sets 
up alcoholic fermentation, which changes the sugar of the 
wort to alcohol and carbon dioxide. The gas escapes in 
bubbles, producing a froth on the top of the fermenting 
vat. The alcohol does not escape but remains in the beer, 
making it a harmful drink. 



1 Not the least of the evils affecting France is her consumption of alco- 
hol. It is known that the honest glass of light wine which used to meet 
the wants of the ordinary Frenchman is now supplemented with spirit in 
all forms, and that France is first of all countries in the amount of alcohol 
which is consumed. London Lancet. 



NATURE OF FERMENTED DRINKS 



Some kinds of beer contain only a small percentage of 
alcohol, but these are often taken in such large quantities 
that the user gets as much alcohol as he would in smaller 
amounts of stronger drinks. 

131. The Food Value of Beer. The drinking of beer 
does not give strength for work, but on the other hand 
tends to make people dull, heavy, stupid, and unfit for hard 
and continued manual or mental labor. Because both beer 
and bread are often made from the same cereals, the 
former has been called " liquid bread." 

There is a popular saying that " where the brewery is, 
no bakery is needed." As a matter of fact, chemists 
tell us that the best beer is more than nine tenths water, 
from four to five per cent alcohol, and that scarcely two 
per cent is really food. A healthy grown person would 
have to drink about 
two gallons of beer 
every day to get 
the same amount of 
nutriment he would 
get from a few slices 
of bread. The 

harmful effect of FIG. 61. 

drinking this large 

irYirmnt- r> f K^r 

daily WOllld quickly 
<ihnw irc^lf 1 TVif* 

food value of a glass 

or two of beer is of so little importance that it is scarcely 

worthy of mention. 

1 The constant use of beer every day gives the system no recuperation, 
but steadily lowers the vital forces. Scientific American. 




Growing Yeast Cells, showing Method 

of buddin S and formin s Grou P s of Cells ' 

Each bud appears as a little swelling on the side of the 
larger cell, as seen in a and b. In e the little bud 
has grown to be nearly as large as the parent cell. 

The little buds S row one after another > making 
irregular shaped groups, as shown in d. 



90 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

Remember, then, from an economical point of view, that 
beer is in no sense a nutritive food nor in any respect a 
prudent food. 1 

132. Drinking Beer in Place of Ardent Spirits. It is 
claimed by some people who realize the evil results of 
drinking wine, whisky, gin, and brandy, that the drinking 
of light beers in place of the stronger beverages does 
much to diminish the use of ardent spirits. This is the 
question in plain words : Does the drinking of more beer 
really mean the consumption of less ardent spirits ? Not 
at all. Physicians and students of domestic science who 
have given much study to the problem most emphatically 
say, No ! They claim that no habitual user of ardent spirits 
was ever saved from the ill effects of alcoholism by the 
drinking of beer. 2 

133. The Physiological Effect of Malt Liquors. The. 
habitual beer drinker often looks the picture of health, and 
perhaps is inclined to boast of the healthfulness of his 
favorite beverage. The testimony of physicians and life- 
insurance experts, however, is that the habitual beer, drinker 
is not so physically strong and well nourished as would 
appear at the first glance. The flesh is not apt to be firm 

1 Let a man drink much beer, enough to make the amount of nourish- 
ment in it of value, and the other influences produced by such a quantity 
will become manifest to such a degree as to cast the factor of nourishment 
in the background. If he drinks little beer, the food value is not appreciable. 
PROFESSOR ROSENTHAL, Erlangen, Germany. 

2 One of the worst features of the poisonous characteristics of alcohol is 
its power, even in small quantities, to create a craving for itself that becomes 
irresistible. It is therefore the nature of wine to lead to an increasing use 
of alcohol. H. NEWELL MARTIN, M.D. 

One can accustom oneself more readily to the drinking of beer than of 
any other intoxicant, and no other so rapidly destroys the appetite for nor- 
mal food and nourishment. GUSTAV VON BUNGE, M.D., Professor of 
Physiological Chemistry in the University of Basel, Switzerland. 



NATURE OF FERMENTED DRINKS 




and hard, and the fair outside appearance is mainly due to 
an unnatural deposit of fat in most of the tissues, especially 
around the heart and kidneys. 

Such a person's physical condition is peculiarly deceptive 
at first, and is often subject to a sudden collapse at the first 
touch of disease. The habitual beer drinker is less able 
to endure an attack of pneumonia, typhoid fever, or heart 
disease than the total abstainer. 

The president of a leading life- 
insurance company once said of 
this class of drinkers : " It was as 
if the system had been kept fair 
outside, while within it was eaten 
to a shell, and at the first touch of 
disease there was utter collapse : 
every fiber was poisoned and weak. 
And this, in its main features, vary- 
ing of course in degree, has been 
my observation of beer drinking everywhere. It is pecul- 
iarly deceptive at first, and it is thoroughly destructive at 
the last." 

In brief, the practical experience of the leading life- 
insurance companies teaches them that the habitual beer 
drinker is a precarious risk. 1 

134. Cider. When the juice is first pressed from apples 
everybody knows that it is healthful and refreshing, but 

1 This flooding the stomach and brain with beer, so prevalent among our 
young students ; the habit of drinking between meals, especially during the 
forenoon ; this daily beer drinking, for hours at a stretch, customary among 
great numbers of the lower and middle classes in Germany ; I regard it 
all as a national evil, whether considered from the hygienic, economic, or 
intellectual point of view. PROFESSOR BINZ, of the University of Bonn, 
Germany. 



FIG. 62. Yeast Cells, found 
in the Juice of Apples, 
which cause the Fermen- 
tation of Cider. 



92 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

it remains so for a few hours only. The ferments which 
-exist in the air and on the skin of the fruit fall into the 
liquid and begin to play their part. The liquid, or cider, 
begins to "work," or undergo the process of fermentation. 
As it was with grape juice, so it is with the juice of the 
apple. The bubbles of carbon dioxide begin to rise and 
alcohol is produced. 

The amount of alcohol increases a little every day, so 
that the apple juice, which was harmless while in the 
apple, soon becomes a source of danger. In a few weeks 
it may contain almost as much alcohol as we find in beer. 

As cider grows older it is said to be growing hard ; that 
is, the amount of alcohol in it is increasing. Hard cider 
may contain ten per cent of alcohol. 

It is well known that the results of intoxication from 
old cider are as bad as, if not worse than, those resulting 
from indulgence in ardent spirits. Many a person has 
acquired the appetite for distilled liquors from drinking 
hard cider. 

135. The Process of Distillation. We all know that 
when water is heated to the boiling point, or 212 F., it 
rapidly changes into vapor, known as steam. How often 
have we watched the steam escaping from the boiling tea- 
kettle and floating away as vapor to cool off as little drops 
of water on the cold window glass ! 

Now, when a fermented liquor is heated, a similar change 
takes place. The alcohol does not, however, need to be 
heated nearly so hot as water before it begins to escape as 
vapor. In other words, the alcohol will be converted into 
vapor before the water becomes hot enough to form steam. 

Thus, when alcohol and water are mixed together, as in 
fermented liquors, the vaporized alcohol which is driven off 



NATURE OF FERMENTED DRINKS 93 

before the water has been heated enough to become vapor, 
and conducted through a coil of pipes kept cool by running 
water, is changed back to a liquid form and collected in a 
receiving vessel. 

The result is a new and stronger liquid, known as 
"spirits" or "ardent (burning) spirits," which is nearly or 
more than half alcohol. This new liquid is whisky, gin, 
or brandy, according to the substance or flavors used in 
the process of manufacture. 

This process of separating one liquid from another by 
vaporizing with heat. and condensing the vapor with cold 
is called distillation. 

The products of the process are known as distilled 
liquors. 

136. Distilled Liquors. Many of the alcoholic liquids 
are made by distillation. Thus, alcohol itself may be dis- 
tilled several times until we get a much stronger liquid, 
clear and colorless like water, with a sharp, sweetish taste 
and a peculiar odor. Various kinds of alcohol are distilled 
from wood, from wine and beer, and from whisky and 
fermenting potatoes and tomatoes. These different forms 
of alcohol vary in composition, but they are alike in one 
essential property, they are all narcotic poisons. 

The more common distilled liquors used as beverages 
are whisky, brandy, rum, and gin. Rum is distilled from 
the fermented molasses of sugar cane ; brandy from wine ; 
whisky from fermented potatoes and corn ; and gin from 
the cereals flavored with juniper berries. These distilled 
liquors contain from forty to fifty per cent of alcohol, the 
rest being water flavored with various aromatics. 

137. The Action of Certain Poisons. A poison is a sub- 
stance whose nature it is, when absorbed into the blood, 



94 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

either to destroy life or impair the functions of one or more 
of the bodily organs. Again, a poison which especially 
affects the brain centers, producing stupor, is called a nar- 
cotic poison. Now, as we shall learn later, the primary 
effect of alcohol is to deaden the great nerve centers, and 
hence it is usually classed as a narcotic poison. 

When we read about poisons we are apt to think only 
of those substances that may cause death in a very short 
time. Among them are laudanum, strychnine, and car- 
bolic acid. But we must remember that there are many 
poisons which do their work very slowly. Thus, arsenic in 
large doses may destroy life in a few moments or it may be 
taken day by day in such small amounts that many months 
or even years may elapse before death results. 

Lead used by painters may be absorbed so slowly that it 
may take months before its victims learn by severe cramps 
in the bowels and the "wrist drop" that the poison has 
been slowly accumulating in the tissues before any outward 
sign of its action was evident. 

138. Alcohol a Poison. Alcoholic liquors may be taken 
in such quantities at a single dose, either by accident or 
design, as to paralyze the great nerve centers and cause 
immediate death. Thus, cases are on record in which 
whisky has been drunk on a wager and gin taken in igno- 
rance by children in such quantities as to produce deep 
stupor and death. While alcohol may thus act in large 
quantities as a quick and powerful poison, in the vast 
majority of cases it is, of course, taken in comparatively 
smaller amounts. 

Hence, while this action of the narcotic is slower, it is 
none the less subtle and deadly in its poisonous effect 
upon the various tissues of the body. 



NATURE OF FERMENTED DRINKS 95 

Alcohol thus answers to the definition of a poison because 
it has an inherent harmful property which on becoming 
mixed with the blood is capable of destroying life, as would 
arsenic, opium, and many other deadly drugs. 

Remember, then, that alcohol is a poison and is classed as 
such in standard medical dictionaries and by eminent medi- 
cal authorities. 1 

139. Total Abstinence the Only Safeguard. No one is safe 
who begins to take any liquor containing alcohol. Entire 
abstinence is the only safeguard against forming the alco- 
holic appetite, and the only cure for it when it is formed. 

1 Alcohol is a poison. So is strychnine ; so is arsenic ; so is opium. 
It ranks with these agents. SIR ANDREW CLARK, M.D. 

Is alcohol a poison ? I reply, Yes. It answers to the description of a 
poison. It possesses an inherent, deleterious property, which, when intro- 
duced into the system, is capable of destroying life, and it has its place with 
arsenic, belladonna, prussic acid, opium, etc. In its effects upon the living 
system alcohol is first an irritant, and afterward, when it has entered the 
circulation, it becomes a narcotic. Were alcohol an irritant only, a man 
would as soon poison himself with arsenic. The narcotic element is the 
siren that leads him on to ruin and to death. WILLARD PARKER, M.D. 

A very large number of people are dying day by day, poisoned by alcohol, 
but not supposed to be poisoned by it. SIR WILLIAM GULL, M.D. 

Alcohol is a virulent poison, and as such should be placed in the list with 
arsenic, mercury, and other dangerous drugs. ALFRED CARPENTER, M.D. 
Examiner of Public Health in the University of London, President of the; 
Council of the British Medical Association. 

Compared with the small quantity of adulterants found in spirituous; 
drinks, ethyl alcohol is so significant that it clearly forms the chief poison. 
PROFESSOR J. A. SIKORSKY, of the University of Kiev. 

Experiments have demonstrated that even a small quantity of alcoholic 
liquor, either immediately or after a short time, prevents perfect mental 
action and interferes with the functions of the cells and tissues of the body, 
impairing self-control by producing progressive paralysis of the judgment 
and of the will ; and has other markedly injurious effects. Hence alcohol 
must be regarded as a poison and ought not to be classed among foods. 
An International Manifesto against the Use of Alcoholic Beverages, signed by 
over eight hundred total abstaining practitioners of medicine in this country 
and Europe. 



96 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

Because of the ease with which the alcoholic appetite is 
roused when it has been once formed, and the power of 
a very small amount of strong drink to stimulate such an 
appetite, there may be a real danger in using wine, rum, 
and brandy as a flavoring for pies, pudding sauces, jellies, 
or any other article of food. 

140. The Danger of Social Drinking. The habit of treat- 
ing one's friends to beer, wine, or any other alcoholic drink 
is simply asking them to injure their health at our expense. 
Such treating is a mark of imprudence rather than an evi- 
dence of real courtesy or friendship, and it must be so con- 
sidered by one who understands the true nature of such 
substances. 

Furnishing wines or liquors at parties, dinners, or other 
entertainments, or for guests or callers, is virtually offering 
poisonous drinks, and is never an act of true or intelligent 
hospitality or real kindness. It may be placing temptation 
too strong to be resisted in the way of an inherited or 
acquired appetite for alcohol. 

The eminent Dr. Horsley, a professor in University Col- 
lege, London, in closing a lecture recently on the effects 
of small quantities of alcohol on the brain, said : " The con- 
tention so often made that small doses of alcohol, such as 
people take at meals, have practically no deleterious effect 
cannot be maintained. From the scientific standpoint total 
abstinence must be the course if we are to follow the teach- 
ing of truth and common sense." 

141. The Alcohol Habit. Alcohol, like so many other 
narcotic poisons, has the peculiar power when taken fre- 
quently, even in small quantities, of creating a diseased 
appetite or craving for itself, which calls for repeated and 
increasing amounts. This is known as the alcoholic habit or 



NATURE OF FERMENTED DRINKS 97 

appetite. All natural appetites have natural limits. But 
the appetite for alcohol, created by the diseased conditions 
which it has itself produced, has no limit to its baneful 
effects upon the health. 

From the first glass of beer or wine sipped by the boy 
who is just beginning to drink to the dram of the drunkard 
whose tissues are poisoned by it, the nature of alcohol is 
to excite a thirst for more. Whether it is used in the form 
of wine, beer, cider, rum, or whisky, its character is the 
same ; for the character of any substance depends upon 
its quality, not its quantity. 

The secret of the drunkard's craving for alcohol is in 
the nature of the drink rather than in the weakness of the 
drinker. 

142. The Oxidation of Small Quantities of Alcohol in the 
Body. When alcoholic beverages are used in small or 
moderate quantities, the greater part of their alcohol is 
burnt up or oxidized within the body. The alcohol thus 
disposed of gives out a certain amount of energy, as truly 
as the oxidation of ordinary food materials in the body 
yields energy. 

We must remember, however, that the result to the body 
is quite different from that of the oxidation of food. When 
foods like sugar or starch are used as sources of energy 
there is no injurious effect upon the nervous system; but 
the use of enough alcohol to supply an appreciable amount 
of energy impairs the higher functions of the brain, such 
as the ability to reason accurately or to exercise complete 
self-control. 

143. Alcohol not a Food. Definitions of the word 
" food " are not always expressed in the same terms, but 
the following essential points should be included in a 



98 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

comprehensive definition : A food is a substance whose 
nature it is, when taken into the system, to build up and 
repair the body and to supply it with energy for heat and 
muscular work without injury to any of its tissues. 

Alcohol in small quantities, as we have just learned, is 
oxidized in the body, and its energy transformed into heat, 
as truly as sugar, starch, or fat. It by no means follows, 
however, that alcohol is therefore a food in the ordinary 
sense in which the term "food" is used. Many harmful 
substances, as ether, morphine, and other powerful drugs, 
are oxidized within the body and furnish a certain amount 
of energy, and yet nobody classes these as foods. While it 
may be true from a purely scientific and technical point of 
view that alcohol by its oxidation may set free a certain 
amount of energy within the body, the sum total of its 
effects is injurious rather than beneficial. Hence there 
is clearly no good reason for calling alcohol a food in the 
ordinary meaning of the term. 

Standard authorities, moreover, class alcohol as a power- 
ful drug, a narcotic poison rather than a food. When 
we stop to think of the possibilities concerned in drinking 
even a very small quantity of alcoholic liquor, the idea of 
calling it a food is an evident contradiction of terms. 1 

1 Alcohol does not act as a food ; it cuts short the life of rapidly growing 
cells or causes them to grow more slowly. LIONEL S. BEALE, M.D., Pro- 
fessor of Principles and Practice of Medicine, King's College, England. 

I find alcohol to be an agent that gives no strength, that reduces the 
tone of the blood vessels and heart, that reduces the nervous power, that 
builds up no tissue, and can be of no use to me or any other animal as a 
substance for food. SIR HENRY THOMPSON, M.D. 

Certainly alcohol cannot be regarded as an efficacious food for muscles, 
nerve cells, and the like. Not even in a narrow sense can it take the place 
ef a force-generating food material. ADOLF FICK, M.D., University of 
Wurzburg, Germany. 



NATURE OF FERMENTED DRINKS 99 



QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT 

I. Of what are fruit juices composed? 2. What happens to these 
fruit juices if left exposed to air of ordinary temperature ? 3. What 
is meant by nature's great law of decay? Illustrate. 4. What 
name is given to the process of decay that goes on in fruit 
juices that are pressed out and left exposed to the air? 5. What 
does fermentation in its widest sense include ? 6. State briefly the 
law of fermentation. 7. What causes the various processes of 
decomposition? 8. What would be the condition of the earth if it 
were not for these minute living forms? 9. To what is the general 
name "bacteria" applied ? 10. What are the shape and size of 
several different kinds of bacteria? 

II. What is mold? Illustrate. 12. Mention three of the more 
common forms of fermentation. 13. Upon what is alcoholic fermen- 
tation in general based? 14. What change in fruit juices and cereals 
is brought about by fermentation ? 15. Explain in full how wine is 
produced by fermentation. 16. What is the great danger from drink- 
ing wine ? 17. What are malt liquors ? 18. Explain how alcohol is 
formed by the fermentation of cereals. 19. What can you say of 
the food value of beer? 20. Does the drinking of beer tend to 
diminish the use of ardent spirits ? 

21. Describe the physiological effect of drinking malt liquors. 
22. What is the testimony of life-insurance companies in regard to 
beer drinking? 23. Explain how cider is made by the fermentation 
of the juice of apples. 24. Explain the process of distillation. 
25. From what are the various distilled liquors made ? 26. What is 
a poison? 27. What is a narcotic poison ? 28. Show why alcohol is 
a poison. 29. What is the only safeguard against forming the alco- 
holic appetite and the only cure when it is formed ? 30. What are 
some of the dangers of social drinking? 

31. Explain in full what is meant by the alcohol habit. 32. How 
does the result of the oxidation of alcohol upon the body differ from 
that of the oxidation of food ? 33. Give the essential points in the 
definition of a food. 34. Explain why alcohol is not a food in the 
ordinary meaning of the word. 35. How is alcohol classed by 
standard authorities? 



CHAPTER VI 
THE DIGESTION OF FOOD 

144. The Object of Digestion. The tissues of the body 
cannot take up and use the food materials in the form 
in which they exist in the food we eat. They must first 
be brought into a condition of solution. This is done 
that they may be absorbed or be able to make their 
way through the tissues forming the delicate walls of the 
alimentary canal. 

In the next place, the food materials must undergo cer- 
tain chemical changes whereby they can be assimilated or 
taken up by the tissues. 

This most wonderful process by which the food mate- 
rials are made capable of absorption and assimilation is known 
as digestion. 

The special organs concerned in bringing about this 
marvelous change in the food are the digestive organs. 

145. The Alimentary Canal. The food tube from the 
mouth to the lowest part of the intestines is known as the 
alimentary canal, because it is for the alimentation, or feeding, 
of the body. 

Beginning at the mouth, this food tube continues as the 
gullet, or ffisophagus. It then pierces the diaphragm, which 
forms the partition between the chest and the abdomen 
(Figs. 83 and 103). 

Lower down the food tube swells out into a large bag 
called the stomach. 

100 



THE DIGESTION OF FOOD 



IOI 



The food tube then narrows again into the small intestine, 
which is coiled upon itself in the abdomen. It now expands 
again into the large intestine, 
from which are discharged 
the waste materials. 

Layers of muscles which 
help to push along the food 
surround this long food 
tube. In and around this 
tube are many organs called 
glands. 1 They pour out 
certain fluids, which moisten 
the food, change it chemi- 
cally, and otherwise make 
it ready to be taken into 
the blood. 

146. The Mouth. The 
first change which food 
undergoes when taken into 
the alimentary canal is in 
the mouth. 

In the mouth the food is 
rolled over by the tongue, 
mixed with saliva, and 




FIG. 63. A View of the Back Part 
of the Adult Mouth. 



The head is represented as having been 
thrown back, and the tongue drawn 
forward. A, B, incisors; C, canine; 
D, E, bicuspids; F, H, K, molars; 
M, anterior pillar of the fauces; N, 
tonsil ; L, uvula ; O, upper part of the 
pharynx; P, tongue drawn forward; 
R, linear ridge, or raphe. 



1 Glands are curious organs of 
various shapes and sizes, whose 
special work it is to take out of the 
blood something to be used again, 
or to rid it of something to be cast 
out of the body. Thus, the salivary 
glands make saliva, or spittle, and 
the sweat glands make sweat. The liver, which weighs from three to four 
pounds, is a single gland, and secretes bile ; while the glands in the intestines 
are so very small that they cannot be seen by the naked eye (Fig. 68). 



IO2 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



crushed and ground into small pieces by the teeth. 
This process is called chewing or mastication. 

147. The Teeth. The teeth serve to cut and grind the 
food. They are fastened into the jaws by roots, which 
sink into the bony sockets somewhat in the same way as 
a nail is held in a piece of wood. 

A child at birth has no teeth ; afterwards, however, two 
sets are developed, one after the other. The first set, or 




FIG. 64. The Temporary and Permanent Teeth. 

Temporary Teeth: A, central incisors; , lateral incisors; C, canines; Z>, anterior 
molars; , posterior molars. Permanent Teeth: f, central incisors; J-f, lateral 
incisors; AT", canines; L, first bicuspids ; Af, second bicuspids ; N, first molars. 



temporary, often called the milk teeth, twenty in number, 
are shed in childhood. The second set, or permanent teeth, 
thirty-two in number, gradually take their place. 

The teeth are arranged in the same way, and number 
the same in each jaw and in each half of each jaw. 



THE DIGESTION OF FOOD 



103 



A 



148. The Structure of Teeth. The teeth are made of 
three materials, dentine, cement, and enamel. Dentine, the 
familiar ivory of commerce, is a bonelike substance which 
forms the inside and body of the tooth. 

Outside of this dentine or the root is 
a layer of cement ; but, when the tooth 
appears above the jaw, the enamel takes 
the place of the cement. Enamel is a 
hard, shining material which looks like 
ivory, and gives a strong protection to 
the exposed part of the tooth, called 
the crown. 

Inside of each tooth is a space which 
holds a delicate substance called the 
pulp, well supplied with nerves and 
blood vessels which enter at the root 
of the tooth. 

149. The Different Kinds of Teeth. 
Beginning at the center of the jaw, 
there are eight incisors, or cutting teeth, 

two on each side. They have sharp, FIG. 65. BLACKBOARD 
chisel-like edges, which cut up the food. SKETCH. 

These teeth are largely developed in Longitudinal Section of 
gnawing animals, such as rabbits, squir- 




rels, rats, and beavers. 

Then come the canine, or dog teeth, 

two in each jaw, so called because they are strongly devel- 
oped in dogs, cats, tigers, and other flesh-eating animals. 
The two upper canines are commonly known as the eye 
teeth, and the two lower as the stomach teeth. 

Next come the bicuspids, four in each jaw. They have, 
two points, or cusps, for grinding the food. 



104 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



Next in order, after the bicuspids, come the largest and 
strongest teeth, which do the hardest work. They are 
called molars, or grinders. There are six of them in each 
jaw. They have broad crowns, with four or five cusps 
or ridges for grinding. The last molars are commonly 
called the "wisdom teeth," because they do not usually 

appear before the age 
of twenty, or the " age 
of wisdom" (Sec. 178). 

Experiment 28. Get a 
specimen of each kind of 
tooth if possible. A den- 
tist friend will give you 
what you need. Use a 
very fine saw to cut a per- 
fect molar in two length- 
wise. If need be, crack 
the tooth with a hammer. 

Note its structure in a 
general way, its crown, 
cusps, roots, enamel, den- 
tine, pulp cavity, etc. 

Make a blackboard 
sketch of a tooth on a 
large scale, using colored 
crayon to make plain the 




SUBMAXILLAR 



FIG. 66. BLACKBOARD SKETCH. 
Salivary Glands of the Right Side. 



various parts (Fig. 65). 

Experiment 29. With the help of a mirror, let each pupil locate 
his own teeth. Note the incisors, eye teeth, bicuspids, molars, and. 
wisdom teeth, if any. In the same way, note the teeth of some 
schoolmate. 

150. The Salivary Glands. While the food is being 
chewed it is moistened by the saliva, or spittle, which flows 
into the mouth from six little glands. They are known as 
the salivary glands. There are three of them on each side. 






THE DIGESTION OF FOOD 



105 




FIG. 67. The Principal Organs of the Thorax and Abdomen. 
The principal muscles are seen on the left, and superficial veins on the right 



io6 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



The parotid gland lies below and in front of each ear. 1 

The submaxillary gland is under the lower jaw. 

The sublingual gland is found under the tongue, in the 
floor of the mouth. 

Each salivary gland opens into the mouth by a little duct. 
Each has a certain resemblance to a bunch of grapes, 
with a tube for a stalk. 

151. The Action of Saliva. Saliva flows rapidly into 
the mouth while we are chewing food. About two pints 
of saliva are secreted in the course of a day. Sometimes 

ABC D 




FIG. 68. 



Diagram of the Structure of 
Secreting Glands. 



A, simple tubular gland ; B, gland with mouth shut and sac formed ; C, gland 
with a coiled tube ; >, plan of part of a racemose gland. 

these glands are busily at work even before we actually 
taste food. The saliva will flow into the mouth even at 
the sight, smell, or thought of food. This is commonly 
known as "making the mouth water." 

The saliva mixes with food and softens it, and aids in 
speech by keeping the mouth moist. It also acts upon the 
starchy matters in food through its ferment, called ptyalin, 
and changes them into a form of sugar known as maltose. 

Experiment 30. To make the saliva flow. Think of some favorite 
article of food, and note the flow of saliva. Push a lead pencil or the 
finger to and fro in the mouth several times, and note the flow of saliva. 

1 This gland, especially in childhood, sometimes becomes inflamed and 
swollen in the disease familiarly known as " mumps." 



THE DIGESTION OF FOOD 



107 



Experiment 31. To show the action of saliva on starch. Chew 
slowly a piece of fresh bread. 1 Note how sweet it tastes after it 
is well wet with the saliva. Do the same with a mouthful of paste 
made of pure arrowroot (almost pure starch) and boiling water, and 
allowed to cool. 

152. What is meant by Secretion. It is necessary to explain 
at this point the exact meaning of secretion and excretion. 
The word "secre- 
tion " comes from a 
Latin word which 
means to sift or sep- 
arate; excretion 
comes from the 
Latin, and means to 
sift out from. Both 
words are used to 
express the sifting 
of some substance 
from the blood. 

A secretion is 
something taken 
from the blood to be 
used again in the 
body for some 
special purpose ; 
while an excretion is 
waste matter, and is 
thrown out of the 
body entirely. Thus, 
the salivary glands 
secrete the saliva, 




FIG. 69. Cavities of the Mouth, Pharynx, etc. 
Section in the middle line designed to show the mouth 
in its relations to the nasal fossae, the pharynx, and 
the larynx. A, sphenoidal sinus ; , internal orifice 
of Eustachian tube ; C, velum palati ; Z>, anterior 
pillar of soft palate ; E, posterior pillar of soft palate ; 
F, tonsil; ff, lingual portion of the pharynx; K, lower 
portion of the pharynx ; L, larynx ; Af, section of 
hyoid bone ; N, epiglottis ; O, palatine arch. 



1 Chew pieces of the brown crust of the bread. It is quite sweet and 
readily dissolves, because, exposed to more heat than the rest of the loaf, 
the starch has been changed into dextrin before the bread left the oven. 
Hence crust and toast are favorite articles of food, especially with old 
people. 



108 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

and the liver secretes the bile. Sweat is an excretion thrown 
off from the body by the Sweat glands. 
Excretion will be described in Chapter IX. 

153. How Food is swallowed. The food is now ready to 
be swallowed. The soft, moist mass is carried backwards 
by the tongue and the muscles of the mouth into the 
funnel-shaped part above the gullet, called the pharynx. 
The soft palate moves upwards and backwards, so as to 
prevent the food from passing into the nose 1 (Fig. 69). 

Now, besides the opening from the pharynx into the 
gullet, there is also one into the windpipe. To prevent 
the food from getting into this opening and choking us, 
the top of the windpipe is protected by a little lid, a kind 
of trapdoor, called the epiglottis (Figs. 101 and 1/4). 

When we swallow, the tongue, raised and pushed back- 
wards, shuts this little lid ; and thus a bridge is made, over 
which the food passes downwards into and through the 
gullet, and thence into the stomach. 

Sometimes, however, a morsel of food "goes the wrong 
way," that is, is drawn into the opening of the windpipe, 
or down into the air tubes, and then violent coughing 
follows : by this means it may be brought up again. If the 
substance is hard and large, like a boot button, an orange 
seed, or a peanut, a person, especially a child, may be choked 
to death. 

Experiment 32. Open the mouth wide ; press down the back of 
the tongue gently with the handle of a teaspoon. With the aid of 
strong sunlight and a hand mirror the epiglottis may be seen. 

1 After an attack of diphtheria the parts of the throat are sometimes 
partially paralyzed. The soft palate is not able to shut off this passage into 
the nose; as a result, milk and other food often come up through the nose. 



THE DIGESTION OF FOOD 109 

154. The Gullet. The gullet, or food pipe, is a tube about 
nine inches long, hanging loosely behind the windpipe. Its 
thick walls are provided with hooplike muscles which con- 
tract with a wavelike motion, well seen when a horse is 




FIG. 70. BLACKBOARD SKETCH. 

The Stomach. 
A, cardiac end ; B, pyloric end. 

drinking water, and so push the food along towards the 
stomach. The pellet of food is pushed downwards by 
these muscles 1 in some such way as we would push any 
substance along inside of a rubber tube (Fig. 83). 

Experiment 33. Place the fingers on the "Adam's apple" (Sec. 
379). Pretend to swallow something, and you can feel the upper 
part of the windpipe and get a very fair idea of the action of the 
epiglottis and the closing of its lid, thus covering the entrance and 
preventing the passage of food into the windpipe. 

1 It is important to remember that, in swallowing, the food and drink 
do. not simply fall down the gullet. Their passage is controlled by the 
muscles in such a way that they grip successive portions swallowed, and 



no 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



155. The Stomach. The food, a moistened, partly 
digested mass, has now reached the stomach, which is a 
pear-shaped bag, or pouch, capable of holding about four 
pints. It lies under the diaphragm, chiefly on the left 
side of the abdomen. 

The stomach has two openings. The opening, or ring, 
through which the food enters, is called the cardiac orifice. 
The opening at the right end, where 
the intestines begin and by which food 
leaves the stomach, is known as the 
pyloric orifice. It is guarded by a kind 
of valve called the pylorus, or gate keeper. 
156. The Coats of the Stomach. The 
outer coat of the stomach is the smooth, 
glistening serous membrane which lines 
the abdomen, \b& peritoneum. 

The inner lining-, or mucous mem- 
brane, of the stomach is loose and wrin- 
kled when the. stomach is empty, and 
smoothed out when it is full of food. 
Between the outer smooth coat and the 
inner lining lies the muscular coat. 

The inner coat of the stomach has its surface honey- 
combed with millions of little pits. We have all seen this 
in tripe. In the floor of each of these tiny pits a number 
of tubes open. These are the openings of the gastric 
glands. 

pass them along. In swallowing a pill there is the same process. The 
smaller the pill, the greater the difficulty oftentimes in swallowing, because 
the muscles have more trouble in getting the necessary grasp on it. Some of 
us have seen an acrobat or juggler stand on his head, and drink a glass of 
water, and even eat in this position. We may see the same thing when we 
watch a horse or a cow drinking from a pail of water on the ground. 




FIG. 71. A Gastric 
Gland. 



THE DIGESTION OF FOOD 



III 




157. Digestion in the Stomach. The moment the food 
reaches the stomach, the muscles begin to contract, and a 
spiral wave of motion begins, becoming more rapid as 
digestion goes on. The food is 

rolled over and over, and thor- 
oughly mixed with the gastric 
juice. Two rings, one at the 
entrance and the other at the out- 
let, keep the food in the stomach 
while it is being churned about 
and digested. 

158. The Gastric Juice. Soon 
after food enters the stomach, 
drops of fluid collect at the 
mouths of the gastric glands 
and trickle down its walls to 
mix with the food. This fluid is 
known as the gastric juice. 

The gastric juice is a clear, almost colorless fluid, with a 
sour taste and odor. It contains a peculiar substance called 
pepsin, and an acid, both of which are necessary to the 
digestion of food in the stomach. The amount of gastric 
juice has been variously estimated, all the way from five 
to fourteen pounds daily. 

Experiment 34. To show how the -wall of the stomach looks. 
The wall of the pig's stomach resembles that of the human stomach. 
Get from the market a piece of a pig's stomach. Cut off bits of it 
and examine it thoroughly with a hand lens. Scrape off the inner, 
or mucous, coat with the edge of a very sharp knife. Find the 
openings of the gastric tubes with the help of a magnifying glass. 
Pick with fine needles until the fibers of the muscular coat are 
found. Contrast the appearance of the pig's stomach with that of 
a cow by examining a piece of tripe. 



FIG. 72. The Inner Surface 
of the Stomach, from which 
the Epithelium has been re- 
moved, showing the Open- 
ings of Gastric Glands. 
Magnified 20 diameters. 



112 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

159. The Action of the Gastric Juice. The gastric juice 
consists of water with a little hydrochloric acid and two 
ferments called pepsin and rennin. The pepsin, acting in 
the presence of a weak acid, turns the proteid food stuffs 
into what are called peptones, which are soluble and capa- 
ble of being absorbed into the blood. 

The gastric juice has no action on starchy foods, neither 
does it act on fats, except to set free the fat from the 
connective tissue which contains it. 

Experiment 35. To show the action of gastric juice on milk. Mix 
two teaspoonfuls of fresh milk in a test tube with a few drops of 
artificial gastric juice, 1 and keep at about 100 F. In a short time 
the milk curdles so that the tube can be inverted without the curd 
falling out. By and by whey is squeezed out of the clot. 

160. Passage of the Food into the Intestines. After two 
or three hours of digestion, the food in the stomach is 
reduced to a pulpy and almost fluid condition. It now 
takes on the appearance of pea soup, usually of a grayish 
color, and is called chyme. 

After one to four hours, the chyme begins to move on 
in successive portions into the first part of the small intes- 
tine. The ringlike muscles of the pylorus relax at inter- 
vals to allow the muscles of the stomach to force the partly 
digested mass into the intestines. 

This action is often repeated until even the indigest- 
ible masses which the gastric juice cannot break down are 
crowded out of the stomach into the intestines. From three 
to four hours after a meal the stomach is quite emptied. 

1 An artificial gastric juice may be obtained for experimental purposes 
by dissolving about ten grains of pepsin powder (made by some reputable 
manufacturer and obtained of any druggist) in half a pint of water and 
adding perhaps from fifteen to twenty drops of strong hydrochloric acid, or 
about six times as much of the dilute acid. 



THE DIGESTION OF FOOD 



Some of the food, while in the stomach, is absorbed into 
the blood current. The peptones and some sugar pass 




FIG. 73. Showing the Relations of the Stomach, Liver, Intestines, 
Spleen, and other Organs of the Abdomen. (Front view.) 

A, duodenum ; B, upper end of the small intestine ; C, lower end of the small 
intestine ; D, caecum ; J5, bladder. The liver and stomach are drawn up, 
and portions of the small intestine have been cut away. 

through the lining membrane into the capillaries which form 
a close network in the mucous membrane. 



114 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

161. The Small Intestine. The intestines consist of a 
long tube which fills the greater part of the abdomen. They 
are divided into the small intestine, about twenty-five feet 
long, and the large intestine, about five feet in length. 

The first portion of the small intestine, 1 which is directly 
continued from the stomach, is called the duodenum, because 
it is about twelve fingers' breadth long, that is, about 
eight inches. 

Let us now see what takes place in the duodenum. Two 
tubes, or ducts, unite and enter it. One comes from the 
liver and the gall bladder, and brings the bile; the other 
from the pancreas, and brings the pancreatic juice. These 
two tubes unite, and enter the duodenum at the same 
place. 

162. The Liver and the Work it does. The liver is a large 
reddish-brown organ situated just under the diaphragm, and 
on the right side. It is the largest gland in the body, and 
weighs about three and one-half pounds. The liver secretes 
in the course of a day about two pints of an important fluid 
called the bile. Some of it is stored up in a kind of little 
pear-shaped bag attached to the liver itself, and called the 
gall bladder. 

The liver also makes a material which resembles starch, 
called gfycogen, or liver sugar. This is stored in the liver 
when food is plentiful, and is used up during starvation or 
during muscular work. 

163. The Bile and how it helps in Digestion. The bile 
is a greenish-yellow, bitter fluid, but, when acted upon by 
the gastric juice, it takes on a distinctly yellow or greenish 
hue ; hence the appearance of vomited bile. 

1 The small intestine includes three parts, duodenum, jejunum, and 
ileum. The large intestine includes the caecum, colon, and rectum (Fig. 73). 



THE DIGESTION OF FOOD 



The chief use of the bile is to help digest the fatty foods 
upon which the gastric juice does not act. The bile also 




FIG. 74. The Liver seen from Below and Behind. 

A and ?, smaller lobes of the liver ; C, portal vein ; D, hepatic artery ; E, inferior 
vena cava ; F, trunk of left hepatic vein ; G, hepatic vein. 

contains materials separated from the blood which are of no 
further use to the body and which must be cast out before 
they do mischief. 

Experiment 36. To show the action of bile on fats. Mix three 
teaspoonf uls . of bile 1 with a half teaspoonful of sweet oil. Shake 
well, and keep the tube in a water bath at about 100 F. A very 
good emulsion is obtained. 

1 Obtain from the butcher some ox bile. Note its bitter taste, peculiar 
odor, and greenish color. It is alkaline or neutral to litmus paper. Pour 
it from one vessel to another, and note that strings of mucus (from the 
lining membrane of the gall bladder) connect one vessel with the other. It 
is best to precipitate the mucus by acetic acid before making experiments, 
and to dilute the clear liquid with a little distilled water. 




Il6 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

164. The Pancreatic Juice and what it does. The pan- 
creatic juice is secreted by a long, narrow, flattened gland called 
the pancreas, or sweetbread. It lies behind the stomach and 
is often said to resemble a dog's tongue (Fig. 73). 

The pancreatic juice, by means of 
its three ferments, finishes the work 
which the saliva began. It acts 
chiefly upon the starchy foods which 
have escaped the action of the saliva, 
and changes them into sugar. It also 
follows up the work of the gastric 
juice, and acts upon the proteids 

FIG. 75. Vertical Section which have not been digested in the 
of Intestinal Villi ; Cross- stomach, changing them into peptones. 
Section below, with The pancre atic juice acts upon the 

Black Dots representing _ . 

Glandular Openings. dr P s of fat m such a wa 7 as to s P ht 

them into glycerin and a fatty acid. 

The latter now unites with the alkali of the pancreatic juice 
and the bile, and forms soap. It also makes what is called 
an emulsion out of the fats ; that is to say, it breaks them 
up into tiny particles and they become white like milk. 

Experiment 37. To show the action of pancreatic juice on the 
albuminous ingredients (casein*) of milk. Into a half -pint bottle (an 
infant's nursing bottle will answer and is easily obtained) put two 
tablespoonfuls of cold water; add one grain of pancreatin, and as 
much baking soda as can be taken up on the point of a penknife. 
Shake well, and add four tablespoonfuls of cold, fresh milk. Shake 
again. Now set the bottle into a basin of hot water (as hot as one 
can bear the hand in), and let it stand for about forty-five minutes. 

Take a small quantity of milk in a test tube, and stir in a few drops 
of vinegar. A thick curd of casein will be seen. Upon applying the 
same test to the digested milk, no curd will be made. The pancreatic 
ferment (trypsin) has digested the casein into peptone, which does 
not curdle. 



THE DIGESTION OF FOOD 



117 



165. How Food is absorbed. The souplike mass which 
left the stomach under the name of chyme has now been 
changed into a thick cream called chyle. Squeezed slowly 
along the intestines by the wavelike motions of the mus- 
cular walls, the food materials that have been digested and 
turned into a soluble form are absorbed. In other words, 
they pass from the inside of the intestines into the blood 
vessels and the lacteals lying 

in the intestinal walls. 

The process by which the di- 
gested materials are taken into 
the blood is called absorption. 
It is by no means a process 
that is confined to the alimen- 
tary canal, but one that is going 
on in every tissue of the body. 

This is done chiefly by two 
sets of vessels, first, by the FlG - 7 6 - 
lacteals, or lymphatics ; second, 
by the blood vessels. 

166. The Work done by the 
Lacteals. The inner surface 
of the small intestine is not 

smooth and shiny, like the outside, but has a velvety 
appearance. This is because it is crowded with millions 
of little club-shaped threads which project into the cavity 
of the intestine. 

These projections are called villi, meaning tufts of hair. 
They are tiny threads, about one thirtieth of an inch long ; 
and a five-cent piece would cover five hundred of them. 
They are set side by side not unlike the pile on velvet. 
These villi are not found in the large intestine. 




Glands and Villi of the 
Small Intestine. 
Magnified 40 diameters. 

A, B, glands seen in vertical section 
with their orifices at C opening 
upon the membrane between the 
villi ; D, villus. 



Il8 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

In each one of these villi is a network of the finest blood 
vessels, and a tube, or canal, called a lacteal, so called from 
a Latin word meaning milky, because it carries a white, 
milky fluid. Millions of these lacteals dip down into the 
small intestine, like little root fibers, and suck up the drop- 
lets of fat or the glycerin and soaps made from them. 

The lacteals, after passing through a number of glands 
like way stations on a railroad in the abdomen, unite 




FIG. 7.7. BLACKBOARD SKETCH. 
Diagram of Intestinal Absorption. 

A, a fold of peritoneum ; B, lacteals and lymphatic glands ; C, veins of 
intestines ; fi.C., receptacle of the chyle (receptaculum chyli) ; P. V., 
portal vein; H.V., hepatic veins; S.F.C., superior vena cava; R,A., 
right auricle of the heart ; I.V.C., inferior vena cava. 

into larger tubes, and finally open into the saclike expan- 
sion of the lower end of the thoracic duct, known as the 
receptaculum chyli. Into this are poured not only the con- 
tents of the lacteals but also of the lymphatic vessels of 
the lower limbs (Fig. 128). 

167. The Thoracic Duct. Sooner or later most of the 
small lymphatics pour their contents into the thoracic duct. 
This is a tube about as large as a goose quill, which lies in 
front of the backbone. It serves to carry the nutritive 



THE DIGESTION OF FOOD 



material obtained 
from the food and 
pours it into the blood 
current at the junc- 
tion of the great veins 
on the left side of the 
head with those of the 
left arm (Fig. 103). 

The remaining 
lymphatics, chiefly 
those on the right 
side, are connected 
with the great veins 
of the right side. 

168. The Work 
done by the Lymphat- 
ics. In nearly every 
tissue of the body 
there is a marvelous 
network of vessels, 
precisely like the lac- 
teals, known as the 
lymphatics. They seem 
to start out of the part 
in which they are 
found, like the root- 
lets of a plant in the 
soil. The tiny roots 
join together and 
make larger roots. 
They carry a fluid 
called lymph, very 




FIG. 78. BLACKBOARD SKETCH. 
Diagram of a Transverse Section of the 

Small Intestine. 

In the figure on the left are seen the artery and vein 
of a villus. In the right figure are represented 
the central lacteal of villus, with plexus of lymph 
vessels at the base. The mucous, submucous, 
muscular, and serous coats are indicated at the 
base of the right-hand figure. The epithelium of 
each villus is well shown. 



120 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

much like blood without the red corpuscles. It is to be 
remembered that the lacteals are really the lymphatics 
which begin in the villi of the small intestine. 

The lymphatics have little round bodies, about the size 
of hazelnuts, at many points of their course, scattered like 
stations along a line of railroad, which bodies are called 
lymphatic glands. They seem to be a kind of magical work- 
shops to make over the lymph in some way, and to fit it 
for being poured into the blood (Figs. 80 and 81). 

Nature, like a careful housekeeper, allows nothing to go 
to waste that can be of any service to the body. 

169. The Spleen and Other Ductless Glands. There are in 
the body a number of organs called " ductless glands," because 
they have no ducts or canals along which may be carried the 
products of their work. Their products are carried off by the 
blood which flows through them. 

The spleen is situated in the abdomen on the left side, and 
just behind the stomach. It is about five inches long, of a 
deep red color, and full of blood (Figs. 73 and 128). 

The spleen appears to take some part in the formation of 
blood corpuscles. In certain diseases, like malarial fever, it 
may become remarkably enlarged. 

The thyroid gland is situated beneath the muscles of the 
neck, on each side of the windpipe. It is greatly enlarged in 
the disease called goitre. 

The thymus gland is situated around the windpipe, behind 
the upper part of the breast bone. Its use is not certainly 
known. It exists only during early life. 

The suprarenal capsules are two little glands, one perched 
on the upper edge of each kidney, shaped something like a 
cocked hat. Nothing definite is known about them (Fig. 128). 

170. Absorption by the Blood Vessels. We have just 
learned that the fats for the most part get into the blood 



THE DIGESTION OF FOOD 



121 



current by a roundabout way, that is, into the lacteals, 
and thence into the other lymphatics and the thoracic duct. 

The peptones and sugar are also carried into the main 
blood current in a roundabout way. They are taken up 
by the tiny blood vessels 
of the villi and then car- 
ried along the portal vein 
to the liver, and are there 
acted upon before they 
reach the general blood 
stream. (See Portal Cir- 
culation, Sec. 210.) 

171. The Large Intes- 
tine. The large intestine, 
which is about five feet 
long, first passes up the 
right side of the abdomen, 
then across under the liver 
and stomach, and, lastly, 
descends on the left side 
of the abdomen. It then 
bends sharply and ends in 
the rectum in the middle 
line of the body (Fig. 73). 

Most of the food material which is of any use to the body 
has been absorbed in the small intestine. The large intes- 
tine absorbs a good deal of the remainder, especially water. 

This part of the digestive canal also serves as a kind of 
temporary storehouse for indigestible or waste materials 
which are to be cast out of the body. 1 




FIG. 79. The Vermiform Appendix. 

A, a portion of the colon laid open to show 
the valve between the large and small 
intestine ; J3, the caecum. 



1 The vermiform appendix, inflammation of which is known as appendi- 
citis, is a curious offshoot from the large intestine near the point where it 



122 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

172. How much to eat. The quantity of food which is 
needed to keep the body in good health varies greatly 
according to circumstances. The greater the amount of 
exercise, the more food is called for to supply the waste. 

During the time of growth, a still greater quantity is 
needed to build up new tissues ; hence growing children 
generally have a good appetite and a vigorous digestion. 
This is often true of persons who are recovering from 
some long and wasting sickness. 

The quantity of food also depends very much upon one's 
business. Those who work hard and long need a goodly 
amount of nutritious food. Those who work indoors can 
get along with a smaller quantity. In cold weather, or in 
cold climates, a greater quantity of food is necessary than 
in warm weather or in a tropical climate. 

173. The 111 Effects of eating too much. An appetite 
for plain, simple, well-cooked food is a safe guide to follow. 
Every person in good health and with moderate exercise 
should have a keen appetite for his food, and enjoy it. 

Young, growing, and vigorous persons should eat plain 
food until the appetite is fully satisfied, provided they have 
enough exercise, both mental and bodily. 

It is easy to know when we are eating too much. An 
overworked stomach makes its condition known by a sense 
of fullness, uneasiness, drowsiness after meals, and some- 
times a real distress. 

is joined by the small intestine. It is a hollow tube about three or four 
inches long, and about the thickness of a lead pencil. From a surgical 
point of view, it is of great importance because it is subject to sudden 
inflammation. In many cases an operation is necessary for the relief of the 
patient. The great English surgeon, Treves, operated one thousand times 
for appendicitis without the loss of a single patient. The use of antiseptics 
in recent surgery has made such brilliant results possible (Fig. 79). 



THE DIGESTION OF FOOD 



123 



If we are in the habit of eating too much and too rich 
food, the complexion is apt to be muddy, the face is more 
or less covered with blotches and pimples, the breath has 
an unpleasant odor, and the general appearance is dull and 
unhealthy. 

174. What to eat. We can safely eat some animal food 
every day, yet it is well to remember that the vegetable 




FIG. 80. Superficial Lymphatics of the Foot. 

albumins supply all that is needed for the nourishment of 
the body. 

A strong, hearty person may eat half a pound or so of 
meat daily.; yet he should take other foods, such as bread, 
oatmeal, beans, rice, and milk. These foods are all good, 
all cheap, all digestible, and all palatable. 

Vegetable foods are less stimulating than animal. Hence 
they are more suitable for children, for whom the plainest 



124 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

and simplest diet is the best. It is much better for a child 
to go to bed on a supper of oatmeal, baked apples, or bread 
and milk than after one of cake, pie, and fried meat. 

Students must also attend carefully to their diet. It is 
much better to begin a day's study with a breakfast of oat- 
meal, stale bread, a soft-boiled egg, and a glass of milk 
than with one of strong coffee, sausage, and hot biscuit. 

175. When to eat. Three meals a day should be eaten 
at regular times. These should be arranged according to 
one's occupation as far as possible. The stomach, like 
other organs, does its work best when its tasks are done 
at regular periods. Hence regularity in eating is of the 
utmost importance. 

Eating between mealtimes should be strictly avoided, 
for it robs the stomach of its needed rest. Food eaten 
when the body and mind are tired, is not well digested. 

Rest, even for a few minutes, should be taken before 
eating a full meal. It is a good plan to lie down, or sit 
quietly and read, for fifteen minutes before eating. 

The state of the mind has a great deal to do with diges- 
tion. Sudden fear or joy, or unexpected news, may take 
away the appetite at once. Hence, so far as we can, we 
should laugh and talk at our meals, and drive away all 
anxious thoughts and unpleasant topics of discussion. If 
hunger is a good sauce, so also is a hearty laugh. 

176. The Time to eat. We should not eat a hearty meal 
for at least two hours before going to bed. We should 
make it a point not to omit a meal unless forced to do so. 
Children, and even grown-up people, often have the bad 
habit of going to school or to work in a hurry, without 
eating any breakfast. There is sure to be an "all-gone" 
feeling at the stomach before another mealtime. 



THE DIGESTION OF FOOD 125 

Severe exercise and hard study just after a full meal are 
very apt to check digestion. The reason is plain : after a 
full meal, extra blood is needed to help the stomach digest 
its food. If, in addition to this, extra blood is needed to 
help the muscles or brain, digestion will be hindered, and a 
feeling of dullness and heaviness follows. This, in time, 
often results in poor digestion, or, as it is often called, indi- 
gestion or dyspepsia. 

177. Hints about Eating. Eat slowly, and thoroughly 
chew the food. Do not take too much drink with the food. 
Our teeth were made to chew our food, and the saliva to 




FIG. 81. Superficial Lymphatics of the Finger. 

moisten it and help digestion. If the food is well chewed, 
the saliva and the gastric juice act more readily. It is not 
only bad manners to eat rapidly, but it is a violation of the 
simplest law of digestion. 

If we take too much drink with our meals, the flow of the 
saliva is checked, and digestion is thus hindered. Rapid 
eating, with a great deal of drink to wash down the food, 
is almost sure to result in dyspepsia. 

Do not take food and drink too hot or too cold. Hot 
bread and hot tea and coffee often injure the enamel of the 
teeth, and disturb the action of the stomach. If the food 
and drink are taken too cold, undue heat is taken from the 
stomach, and digestion is delayed. 



126 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

It is not wise to bolster a flagging appetite with highly 
spiced food and bitter drinks. An undue amount of pepper, 
mustard, horse-radish, pickles, fancy meat dressings, and 
highly seasoned sauces may stimulate digestion for a time, 
but, used in excess, they soon weaken it. 

177 a. Proper Care of the Bowels. Irregularity in eating, the 
eating of rich pastry, too much finely bolted flour, and not 
enough fruit and vegetables, negligence or carelessness in at- 
tending to a regular daily evacuation of the bowels, lead to the 
very common and distressing trouble known as constipation. 

Do not get into the habit of using any of the numerous 
proprietary medicines to secure a proper action of the bowels. 
For the most part they are only of benefit for the time and 
rarely remove the cause of constipation. 

We must pay strict attention to the proper action of the 
bowels. The formation of a regular habit is of the utmost 
importance. The bowels can be trained to act at a certain 
time every day. Take great pains to eat enough coarse food, 
such as oatmeal, corn bread, vegetables, stewed prunes, dates, 
figs, etc. Drink a glass of water just after getting out of bed 
in the morning. Vigorous muscular exercise is a valuable help. 

178. Care of the Teeth. The teeth should be thoroughly 
cleansed night and morning with a soft brush and warm 
water. Castile soap and some simple tooth powder with 
no grit in it may be used. The brush should be used on 
the inner side or back of the teeth as well as on the front. 

Great care should be taken in the use of wooden tooth- 
picks. What is known as surgeon's floss or silk, or even 
common silk thread, when drawn between the teeth, is 
quite effective in removing particles of food. 

The enamel if once broken or destroyed is never renewed. 
The tooth is left to decay, slowly but surely; hence we 



THE DIGESTION OF FOOD 127 

must be on our guard against certain things which may 
injure the enamel. 

Picking the teeth with pins and needles is hurtful. We 
should never crack nuts, crush hard candy, or bite off stout 
thread with the teeth. The continued use of gritty and 
cheap tooth powders, and very hot food and drink often 
injure the enamel. 

The greatest care should be taken in saving the teeth. 
The last resort of all is to lose a tooth by having it extracted. 
A skilled dentist can save almost anything in the form of 
a tooth. 

179. Effect of Alcohol upon Mucous Membranes. Alcohol 
is a distinct irritant of the mucous membranes. Thus, when 
raw spirit is taken into the mouth, it causes a burning 
sensation. When diluted it does the same thing, but of 
course in a less irritating way. By this irritation the epi- 
thelial cells of the mucous membranes of the mouth, as 
well as the salivary glands, secrete an unusual amount of 
water. This gives rise to a sense of dryness and of thirst. 1 
The mucous membrane of the stomach is irritated in a 
similar way. 

180. General Effect of Alcohol on the Stomach. Alcohol 
acts as a mild or powerful irritant of the stomach accord- 
ing as it is taken diluted or strong. Its habitual use leads 
to distressing forms of disease of the stomach. If we could 
look into the stomach, as Dr. Beaumont looked into the 
stomach of Alexis St. Martin, just after taking a drink of 
raw spirit, we should find that the inner surface would be 

1 A noted French physiologist, M. Lancereaux, has found that the use 
of alcoholic drinks produces a softening of the salivary glands, together 
with other changes in the tissue composing them. This causes alterations 
in the saliva itself and accounts for the dryness of the mouth so common 
among persons addicted to the use of alcohol. 



128 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

bright red where the alcohol touched it, far more so 
than after taking food. Alcohol irritates the lining of the 
stomach and dilates the tiny blood vessels. 

181. Effect of Alcohol on the Digestive Powers of the 
Gastric Juice. Alcohol, like any other irritant of the 
stomach, causes the gastric juice to flow in an excessive 
amount, as the eye, when injured, becomes flooded with 
tears. The digestive power of the gastric juice is at the 
same time either diminished or seriously impaired by the 
precipitation of its pepsin. This hinders digestion, because 
the solvent power of the gastric juice is diminished. 

If this unnatural excitement of the glands of the stomach 
is kept up for some time, an extra amount of useless work 
is thrown upon the gastric glands and they become less 
able to do their normal work. 

The structural alterations that the habitual use of alco- 
hol may induce, and J:he action of this agent on the pepsin, 
may seriously impair the digestive power. Hence it is that 
those who are habitual consumers of alcoholic liquors often 
suffer from disorders of digestion. Heartburn, water brash, 
acid stomach, and a peculiar retching in the morning may 
thus be produced. 

If the amount of alcohol be increased, or the repetition 
become frequent, some part of it undergoes acid fermen- 
tation in the stomach, and acid eructations or vomitings 
occur. With these disturbances may be associated loss of 
appetite, feeble digestion, sallowness, mental depression, 
and headache. 

182. The Final Effect upon the Stomach of the Long- 
Continued Use of Alcohol. Now, when these alcoholic 
liquors are poured into the stomach for days, weeks, and 
even for years, it is no wonder that their long-continued 



THE DIGESTION OF FOOD 129 

use causes the coats of the stomach to become altered in 
their structure. There is a chronic inflammation of the 
inner coats, the walls of the stomach become thicker and 
harder, and traces of ulceration are often found. Because 
the stomach is thus inflamed and unable to digest food 
properly from the habitual use of strong drink, many other 
important organs of the body suffer as a result. 1 

183. The Case of Alexis St. Martin. The effect of alco- 
holic liquors upon gastric digestion was studied many years 
ago by Dr. Beaumont and others, in the case of Alexis 
St. Martin, a French Canadian. This man met with a 
gunshot wound which left a permanent opening into his 
stomach, guarded by a little valve of mucous membrane, 
Through this opening the lining of the stomach could be 
seen, the temperature ascertained, and numerous experi- 
ments made as to the digestibility of various kinds of food. 
In this remarkable case it was observed by looking directly 
into his stomach that when a wholesome dinner was digest- 
ing in good order, a glass of gin arrested the process, which 
was not continued until the alcohol had passed out of the 
stomach. 

1 Nothing could be further removed from the truth than the popular 
notion that alcohol, at least in the form of certain wines, is helpful to diges- 
tion. Roberts showed, years ago, that alcohol, even in small doses, dimin- 
ished the activity of the stomach in the digestion of proteids. Gluzinski 
showed, ten years ago, that alcohol causes an arrest in the secretion of 
pepsin, and also in its action upon food. Wolff showed that the habitual 
use of alcohol produces disorder of the stomach to such a degree as to 
render it incapable of responding to the normal excitation of food. 
Blumenau says that alcohol manifests a decidedly unfavorable influence on 
the course of normal digestion, even when taken in small quantities, and 
injures the normal digestive functions. Hugounence found that all wines, 
without exception, prevent the action of pepsin upon proteids. The most 
harmful are those which contain large quantities of alcohol, cream of tartar, 
or coloring matter. WINFIELD S. HALL, M.D., Professor of Physiology 
in Northwestern University Medical School, Chicago. 



130 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

Many experiments have been made by drawing off the 
contents of the stomach with a siphon, during various stages 
of digestion. When alcohol had been taken it was found 
that the strong drink suspended the digestion of food for 
some time while it remained in the stomach, and that only 
after the alcohol left the stomach did digestion go on at 
a fair rate. 1 

1 Under the influence of alcohol, the acidity of the gastric juice and 
the quantity of hydrochloric acid, as well as the digestive power of the 
gastric juice, is diminished. This enfeebling of the digestion is especially 
pronounced in persons accustomed to the use of alcohol. PROFESSOR 
KOCHLAKOFF, St. Petersburg. 

When constantly irritated by the direct action of alcoholic drinks, the 
stomach gradually undergoes lasting structural changes. Its vessels remain 
dilated and congested, its connective tissue becomes excessive, and its 
power of secreting gastric juice diminishes. H. NEWELL MARTIN, M.D. 

At last the alcohol enters the stomach. Wherever it touches it causes 
irritation then paralysis of the nerves and congestion of the mucous mem- 
branes. It mixes with the gastric juice and diminishes its digestive power. 
At length it comes to pass that the stomach can no longer fulfill its normal 
functions. It becomes flabby and inert ; digestion becomes slow and diffi- 
cult; the appetite is lost. Soon after, the mucous membrane, losing its 
resisting power, corrodes, small ulcers appear, and the condition becomes 
worse. DR. BIENFAIT, Liege. 

Further serious disturbances of the digestive organs are found not infre- 
quently among children, consequent upon the use of alcohol ; but it is still 
more common to find slight digestive troubles noticeably increased by giving 
children alcohol to cure them. ADOLF FRICK, M.D., Zurich. 

Sir Henry Thompson, in a recent work on Diet in Relation to Health, 
gives the result of some personal experience in the use of alcohol with 
meals. Thirty-two years ago, at the age of fifty-two, he gave up the use 
of alcohol. Five or six years ago, for the sake of the experiment, he tried 
the effect of a claret glass of good wine at dinner every day for two months. 
Sick headaches and pains in the joints, from which he had suffered in 
early life, came back until he again abstained. After abandoning alcohol 
the joints gradually lost their stiffness and ultimately became as supple 
and mobile as they were in youth and continue absolutely so to this day. 
Dr. Thompson says he is not an exception, and he claims that a large class 
of active men possess a more or less similar temperament. 



THE DIGESTION OF FOOD 131 

184. Effect of Alcohol on the Liver. When alcohol is 
taken up by the blood vessels of the stomach, it is carried 
directly to the liver, and filtered through this largest and 
most important organ before it reaches the heart. This, as 
we shall learn, is a part of the portal circulation (Sec. 210). 
Hence the poisonous effects of alcohol are strongly marked 
in the liver, especially among hard drinkers. 

The blood vessels of the liver are overworked, and the 
capillaries engorged with blood. This causes, first, an 
enlargement of the liver, and then a shriveling of the sub- 
stance of the organ, together with a rough and bunchy 
surface. 

185. The Effect of Tobacco on Digestion. The use of 
tobacco, either in smoking or chewing, causes the glands 
of the mouth to secrete an unnatural amount of saliva ; 
this, in time, weakens them and causes dryness of the 
throat. It may also interfere with digestion. Very fre- 
quently smoking leads to indigestion, which can only be 
cured by abandoning tobacco. Physicians meet with numer- 
ous cases of dyspepsia caused by the use of tobacco in 
some one of its forms. 1 

186. Smoking Cigarettes. Cigarettes may seriously impair 
general nutrition, causing loss of appetite, fullness of the 
stomach, nausea, vomiting, and dyspepsia. In many cases 
so marked are these symptoms of impaired nutrition that 
they produce a typical condition known as "cigarette 
cachexia." 

1 One of the more common effects of absorption of tobacco products, is 
to impair the appetite and weaken digestion. H. NEWELL MARTIN, M.D. 



132 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT 

I. What, in a general way, is the object of digestion ? 2. What 
is the alimentary canal? 3. Mention the various parts of the alimen- 
tary canal. 4. What takes place in the mouth? 5. Describe the 
process of chewing, or mastication. 6. Describe the structure of 
the teeth. 7. Mention the number and situation of the teeth, giving 
the name of each. 8. What are the salivary glands? 9. What is 
saliva, and what is its action? 10. What is meant by secretion and 
excretion ? 

II. Describe the process of swallowing food. 12. What is the 
epiglottis, and what useful purpose does it serve? 13. Explain 
the action of the gullet, or food pipe. 14. Describe the stomach. 
15. What happens when the food reaches the stomach? 16. What 
is gastric juice, and how is it secreted? 17. Describe the action of 
the gastric juice. 18. Describe the small intestine. 19. What is the 
liver? 20. How does bile help in digestion ? 

21. What is pancreatic juice, and what is its action ? 22. Describe, 
in a general way, the process of absorption. 23. What part do the 
lacteals play in the process of absorption ? 24. What is the thoracic 
duct, and what is its use? 25. What are the lymphatics, and what 
work do they do? 26. Describe the spleen and other ductless glands. 
27. Describe absorption by the blood vessels. 28. What is the large 
intestine and what purpose does it serve? 29. Upon what does the 
required quantity of food depend? 30. What are some of the ill 
effects of eating too much? 

31. What should guide us as to what we should eat? 32. Describe 
in full when we should eat. 33. What can you say about the time 
to eat? 34. Mention other hints about eating. 35. Give some hints 
about the care of the teeth. 36. What are some of the effects of 
alcoholic liquors upon the stomach ? 37. What are some of the effects 
of the long-continued use of alcohol upon the structure of the stomach? 
38. What is the effect of alcohol on the liver? 39. Describe the 
effect of tobacco on digestion. 40. What is the effect of smoking 
cigarettes on digestion? 



CHAPTER VII 
THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 

187. The Use of Blood. Every child knows that if he 
cuts his finger, or even pricks it with a needle, the blood 
will flow. What is true of the finger is also true of every 
other part of the body, except the outermost layer of the 
skin, the hair, and the nails. 

The tiny blood vessels go everywhere, through the mus- 
cles and nerves, over and within the brain, through every 
part of every bone, the blood flows everywhere. Wher- 
ever it goes, the blood has something to bring to the tissues 
and something to carry away. 

The blood, in its ceaseless round, not only brings new 
material for repair, but it also becomes a kind of sewer 
stream that carries waste matters to organs whose duty it 
is to cast them out of the body. 

188. Properties of Blood. The blood is a red, somewhat 
sticky fluid, thicker than water. It has a peculiar smell 
and a saltish taste. If we look at a small drop of freshly 
drawn blood under a microscope, we shall see that it is not 
so simple as it looks. It consists of fluid of a light straw 
color, called the plasma, and an enormous number of little 
bodies called corpuscles, floating in the liquid. These cor- 
puscles are of two kinds, red and white. 

189. Why the Blood looks Red. The red color of the 
blood is due to millions of little red corpuscles which float 

'33 



134 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



about in the plasma. In the same way, a clear white glass 
bottle filled with red beads and water would look uniformly 
red at a short distance. There are about five hundred of 
the red corpuscles to one of the white corpuscles. 

The red corpuscles contain iron combined with proteid. 
The red substance thus formed combines readily with oxy- 
gen and makes the 
blood scarlet. 

Experiment 38. To 

illustrate in a general 
way that blood is really a 
mass of red bodies which 
give the red color to the 
fluid in which they float. 
Fill a clean white glass 
bottle two thirds full of 
little red beads, and then 
fill the bottle full of water. 
At a short distance the 
bottle appears to be filled 
with a uniformly red 
liquid. 

FIG. 82. Human Blood Corpuscles, as 190. The Red Cor- 

seen under the Microscope. T , 

puscles. In shape the 

Magnified 1000 diameters, . 

The dark circular disks are the red corpuscles. Near red Corpuscles are CirCU- 

the center two white corpuscles are seen, with their J ar disks, resembling 
nuclei stained so that they look black. 

somewhat pieces of 

money. Their form is not unlike that of an india-rubber 
air cushion when blown up with air. They are not hard, 
but are like tiny pieces of red jelly. They are so elastic 
that they can squeeze through narrow places and then at 
once return to their own shape. 

The red corpuscles are so very small that, if we had 
fingers delicate enough to handle them, we could place 




THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 



135 



some fifty thousand of them on the head of a pin. It is 
said that some five million of them will float round in a 
single drop of blood. If placed in a row side by side, it 
would take about thirty-two hundred of them to measure 
one inch. Under the 
microscope, the sides of 
these disks stick to one 
another in rolls, like so 
many coins. 



FIG. 83. Lateral Section of the 
Right Chest, showing the Rela- 
tive Position of the Heart and 
its Great Vessels, the QEsoph- 
agus and the Trachea. 

A, a muscle which aids in pushing the 
food down the oesophagus; ^oesoph- 
agus ; C, section of the right bron- 
chus ; D, two right pulmonary veins ; 
, great azygos vein crossing oesoph- 
agus to empty into the superior 
vena cava; F, thoracic duct; //, 
thoracic aorta; K, lower portion of 
oesophagus passing through the dia- 
phragm ; Z,, diaphragm as it appears 
in sectional view, enveloping the 
heart; M, inferior vena cava, pass- 
ing through diaphragm and empty- 
ing into right auricle; IV, right 
auricle; O, section of right branch 
of the pulmonary artery ; P, aorta ; 
J? } superior vena cava ; S, trachea. 




191. The Work done by the Red Corpuscles. The re. 
corpuscles absorb oxygen in the lungs and carry it to the 
various tissues of the body, which are greedy for it. Night 
or day, whether we are asleep or awake, millions of these 



136 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

tiny oxygen-carriers are as busy as bees, swirling through 
the blood vessels. 

The blood has been beautifully called "the river of life." 
The red corpuscles may be compared to a countless fleet of 
little boats which are constantly floating along in this river. 

192. The White Corpuscles. The white corpuscles are 
slightly larger than the red, and are not flattened. They 
may sometimes be kept alive under the microscope, and 
may be seen rolling and tumbling about. At one time 
they are round like a ball, and of such a size that it would 
take about twenty-five hundred of them to measure one 
inch. Shortly afterwards, however, they change this form 
and become pear shaped, three sided, and so on, in endless 
variety (Fig. 82). 

The white corpuscles serve as a kind of scavenger for 
the body. They creep out of the blood vessels into the 
tissues and there pick up tiny bits of foreign substances. 
These corpuscles seem to be warrior cells, forever fighting 
against the invasion of bacteria. 

Experiment 39. To show the blood corpuscles. Place a small drop 
of blood (easily obtained by pricking the finger with a needle) upon 
a clean slip of glass and cover with thin glass, such as is ordinarily 
used for microscopic purposes. The blood thus spread out into a 
film may be readily examined with a moderately powerful microscope. 
At first the red corpuscles will be seen as pale, disklike bodies float- 
ing in the clear fluid. Soon they will be observed to stick to each 
other by their concave faces, so as to form rows. Here and there a 
white corpuscle may be seen among the red ones (Fig. 82). 

193. The Clotting of Blood. If a basin of fresh blood is 
allowed to stand for a short time, it will separate into two 
parts : one, a sticky, jelly like mass, called the clot, settles 
to the bottom ; the other, a straw-colored, watery fluid, 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 



137 



COMMON CAFIOrtO ARTC: 
EXTERNAL JUGULAR 
INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN 



AXILLARY ARTEP 



<TC/>Y, 
BRACHIAL VEIN 



RADIAL ARTCR 
RADIAL VEIN 




FIG. 84. Principal Muscles on the Right, Certain Organs of the Chest and 
Abdomen, and the Larger Blood Vessels on the Left. 



138 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

called the serum, remains at the top. This change of 
the blood, after it is drawn from the body, into a jelly- 
like, semisolid mass, is called the clotting, or the coagulation, 
of the blood. 

The watery part, or serum as it is called, is blood from 
which the corpuscles have been removed by the process of 
clotting. It is largely made up of water in which albumin 
is dissolved. 

The clot consists mainly of two substances, the cor- 
puscles and a network of white, tough, fibrous threads, 
called fibrin. The clotting of blood is not yet fully under- 
stood, but it is thought to be due in part to the formation 
of this fibrin. The corpuscles get snarled in the meshes of 
the fibrin, and thus the clot is formed. 

194. Why the Clotting of Blood is Important. The fact 
that blood clots when shed is one of its most striking prop- 
erties. It is of the most vital importance. When a person 
receiver a severe wound he would bleed to death unless 
clotting set in. Nature in this way plugs up the wound 
with clots of blood and prevents too much bleeding. 
Blood does not clot within the healthy vessels. It may do 
so in certain diseased conditions. 1 

Experiment 40. Put two or three drops of fresh blood on the 
bottom of a little white butter plate. Place the plate in a saucer 
which has a little water in it and cover it with an inverted goblet. 
Take off the cover in five minutes, and the drop has set into a jellylike 
mass. In half an hour a little clot will be seen in the watery serum. 

1 Thus, in those who suffer from enlarged or varicose veins, a clot may 
sometimes form in the veins of the leg. Snake poison may act to cause 
the blood to clot within the vessels. In some very rare cases there are 
people born in whom the blood has little or no power of clotting. These 
are known as " bleeders," and with them a slight cut on the ringer or even 
a pin scratch may prove a serious matter, owing to the loss of blood. 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 



139 



195. General Plan of Circulation. Since all the tissues 
stand in such constant need of blood, there must be some 
special machinery by which this "river of life " is made to 
keep up its constant flow through every nook of the body. 
Let us now begin the 

study of this apparatus. 

In the first place, 
there is in the chest a 
little pump called the 
heart, from which tubes 
are distributed to all 
parts of the body. 

One set of tubes, 
called arteries, carries 
the blood from the 
heart. 

Another set of tubes, 
called veins, brings the 
blood back to the heart. 

This continued flow 
of blood through the 
body, to and from the 
heart, is called the cir- 
culation of the blood. 

196. The Circulation 
compared to the Water 
Service of a City. The 
way in which blood is 

made to flow through vessels of the body may be compared in 
a general way to the manner in which water is supplied to a 
city. The heart is the pumping engine which forces the blood 
into the main pipes for the supply of the several districts. 




FIG. 85. Anterior View of the Heart. 

A, superior vena cava ; , right auricle ; C, right 
ventricle; Z>, left ventricle; , left auricle; 
F, pulmonary vein ; H, pulmonary artery ; 
K, aorta ; L, right subclavian artery ; M, right 
common carotid artery ; N, left common carotid 
artery. 



140 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



As through a city the great water mains branch and 
subdivide into smaller pipes for the supply of districts, 

streets, houses, and rooms, so 
in the body the blood vessels 
divide over and over again to 
furnish blood to the smallest 
organs and the most remote 
parts of the tissues. The par- 
allel ends here. The water 
supplied to the city does not 
return to the pumping station, 
whereas the blood returns to 
the heart. 

When the blood has been 
pumped through every part of 
the body, and has given to it 
the food which it needs, it re- 
ceives from the tissues certain 
waste matters, the result of 
wear and tear. The blood is 
now no longer fit for nourish- 

A, B, right pulmonary veins: S, , , ,., 1 . , 

openings of the left pulmonary ent, but is more like a kind 
veins; , D, c, aortic valves ; i?, o f sewer stream laden with 

aorta ; P, pulmonary artery ; O, ,-P,. . , 

pulmonic valves ; H, mitral valve ; Waste matters. These, in due 

K, columnae carneae ; M, right ven- time, are brought to Certain 
tricular cavity. ,11 ^i i 

organs, as the lungs, the skin, 
and the kidneys, and cast out of the body. 

197. The Heart. The heart is hollow and muscular, 
somewhat like a pear in shape. It is hung almost in the 
center of the chest, above the diaphragm, and is partly 
overlapped by the lungs. It is about the size of the 
closed fist of the person to whom it belongs. 




FIG. 86. Cavities of the Heart. 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 141 

The apex of the heart beats against the chest wall 
between the fifth and sixth ribs, about an inch and a half 
to the left of the middle line of the body. 

198. The Pericardium. The heart lies within a strong, 
fibrous membrane forming a kind of bag or purse called 
the pericardium. This bag is really double, with two layers, 
one over the other. The inner layer closely covers the 
surface of the heart and is reflected upon itself to form 
a sack without an opening. 

Place your hand in a stocking which has the foot turned 
inwards, and your hand will be covered by a double coat 
somewhat as your heart is by its double bag. 1 Between 
the two layers of the pericardium there is a small quantity 
of clear fluid which permits the parts to move one upon 
the other with little friction. 

199. The Chambers of the Heart. The heart has a mus- 
cular partition running down its center from top to bottom, 
separating the right side from the left. Each of these 
sides has two hollow chambers or cavities : an upper one 
called an auricle, from the fancied resemblance of one cor- 
ner to the ear of a dog ; the other and lower one called a 
ventricle. Hence there are two upper chambers called auri- 
cles, and two lower chambers called ventricles. 

The heart is a muscle; hence it can contract. When 
each of its chambers contracts, blood is forced to flow into 
the next chamber or a blood vessel, as the case may be. 
The walls of the ventricles are stouter and stronger than 



1 We must remember, however, that the leg of the stocking is open at 
the end while the pericardium is closed. We may think of the pericardium 
shielding the heart somewhat as the leather case of a football protects the 
bladder within it. Again, the pericardium is arranged about the heart as a 
boy's toboggan cap covers his head. 



142 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



those of the auricles, and those of the left ventricle are 
much stouter than those of the right ventricle. 

The right auricle opens into the right ventricle, and the 
left auricle into the left ventricle ; but there is no connec- 
tion between the right 
and left cavities of the 
heart. 

200. The Valves of 
the Heart. The open- 
ings between the aur- 
icles and ventricles are 
guarded by flaps of mem- 
brane, or little swing 
doors, called valves. 

These valve flaps may 
be roughly compared to 
folding doors or gates, 
which, by opening only 
one way, allow the blood 
to flow in that direction 
and prevent its flowing 
in any other. 

The valve on the right 
side of the heart is called 




FIG. 87. ^Posterior View of the Heart. 



L.A., left auricle; R.A., right auricle; L.V., left 

ventricle; R.V., right ventricle; ,4, opening t | ie thr ee-DOinted, OT 
of the inferior vena cava ; B, superior vena 
cava ; C, right pulmonary veins ; D, left pul- 
monary veins ; E, aorta ; F, left branch of 
pulmonary artery; (7, great cardiac vein; 
H, middle cardiac vein. The cardiac lym- 
phatics which follow the course of the car- 
diac veins are also shown. 



tricuspid, valve. 

The valve on the left 
looks somewhat like a 
bishop's miter ; hence it 
is called the mitral valve. 
These valves fall back to let the blood flow from the 
auricles into the ventricles, but float up with the blood so 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 143 

as to prevent the return of the blood into the auricles. 
The valves are prevented from floating over into the auri- 
cles by cords which tie them to the ventricles. These cords 
may be drawn tight by the contraction of the little muscles 
in the wall of the ventricles to which they are attached. 

Between the ventricles and the arteries are the half-moon 
shaped, or semilunar, valves. 




FIG. 88. Muscular Fibers of the Auricles. 

L.A., left auricle ; R.A., right auricle ; A, opening of the inferior vena cava ; 
B, superior vena cava ; C, cardiac vein of right auricle laid open ; D, left 
pulmonary veins; E, right pulmonary veins; F, muscular fibers sur- 
rounding the openings between the left auricle and left ventricle, and 
the right auricle and right ventricle ; G, H, K, and L, muscular fibers 
surrounding the great veins of the heart. 

201. The Work of the Heart. The heart is a wonderfully 
busy machine, pumping away without getting tired, night and 
day for eighty years or more, perhaps, at the rate of seventy 
strokes every minute, over forty-two hundred times every hour, 
and nearly thirty-seven million beats every year. At each 



144 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

stroke the ventricles pump about six ounces, or nearly fifty 
teaspoonfuls, of blood. About eighteen pounds of blood are 
moved every minute, or twelve tons every day. 

It is calculated that the total amount of daily work done by 
the heart can be represented by what a man of average weight, 
about one hundred and fifty pounds, would do in running up a 
flight of forty steps forty times. While the cavities are filling 
with blood, and its muscles are relaxed, the heart has a brief 
rest ; otherwise, it could not keep up its patient and tireless 
pumping of over four thousand tons of blood every year, from 
birth to death. 1 

202. The Blood Vessels that enter and leave the Heart. 
The aorta, the largest artery in the body, springs from the 
left ventricle. It carries the bright, pure blood from the 
heart to all parts of the body. 

Four pulmonary veins open into the left auricle. Two of 
these veins come from the right lung and two from the 
left lung. They bring back to the heart the blood which 
has been combined with oxygen in the lungs. 

Two of the largest veins in the body, called the superior 
vena cava and the inferior vena cava, open into the right auricle. 
These great veins pour into the right auricle the dark blood 
which has been collected in various parts of the body by 
the smaller veins (Fig. 95). 

The pulmonary artery springs from the right ventricle. 
Soon after leaving the heart, it splits into two pipes ; one 
goes to the right lung, the other to the left .lung. This 
artery carries from the heart to the lungs the dark, impure 
blood which has been brought to it by the great veins. 
Its entrance is guarded by the three semilunar valves. 

1 It should be remembered that the two auricles contract at the same time 
and then the two ventricles. Then comes a pause, or state of rest, after 
which the auricles and ventricles contract in the same order as before. 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 



203. The Aorta and its Great Branches. Branches of the 
aorta carry blood from the heart to the tissues. They are called 
arteries. After leaving the heart the aorta rises towards the 
neck, but soon curves downwards to form the arch of the 
aorta. This great 
tube passes between 
the lungs to the back, 
then runs down along 
the spine through 
the diaphragm. 

In the abdomen it 
divides into two 
branches, one of 
which goes to each 
lower limb. 

Branches spring- 
ing from the arch of 
the aorta supply the 
head and the arms. 

While the aorta 
is passing down the 
spine it gives off 

branches to nourish 

FIG. 89. 




the lungs and the 
important organs of 
the abdomen. 



Showing the carotid artery and jugular vein on the 
right side, with some of their main branches ; also 
some large nerve trunks. 



Experiment 41. To illustrate how the heart pumps blood. Sink 
the suction end of a bulb syringe into water. Press the bulb. As 
the bulb expands, it fills with water ; as we press it again, a valve 
prevents the water from flowing back, and it is driven out in a jet 
along the main pipe. The suction pipe represents the veins; the 

b, the heart;. and the tube end, the arteries. 




146 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 




FIG. 90. 



204. The Veins. The veins are the return pipes that 
bring the blood back to the heart. They generally lie 
near the surface of the body, just beneath the skin. We 
may see them in almost any part of the body. Unlike 
the arteries, which gradually grow 
smaller and smaller, the veins, start- 
ing from the capillaries, grow larger 
and larger. 

The veins of the legs pass upwards, 
becoming gradually larger by the addi- 
tion of other branches in the abdomen, 
until at last all the united branches 
are joined in one great vein, which 
empties into the right auricle of the 
heart (Sec. 202). 

The venous blood from the head 
, longitudinal section of and the arms empties into the right 

a vein, showing the valves -11 .11 

closed ' auricle by another large vein. 

As we have learned, the four pul- 
monary veins carry the arterial blood from the lungs to the 
left auricle (Sec. 202). 

The veins are abundantly supplied with little pouch- 
like folds or pockets which act as valves to prevent the 
backward flow of the blood. If we press the fingers 
along one of the veins in the arm, towards the hand, we 
shall see a number of little knots or swellings here and 
there along the vein. These indicate the position of the 
valves. 

The blood thus forced back fills the little pockets in the 
vein. Take away the finger and the knots will at once 
disappear, because the blood is left free to flow towards 
the heart. 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 147 

Experiment 42. Grasp the left wrist tightly with the thumb and 
two fingers of the right hand. Note the little knots or swellings in 
the veins on the back of the hand, caused by checking the flow of the 
venous blood towards the heart. These swellings show the position 
of the valves of the veins. 

205. The Capillaries. Between the ends of the smallest 
arteries and the beginnings of the tiniest veins is a very 
close network, like the finest lace, with the minutest little 
tubes for threads. These little tubes or threadlike vessels 
are called capillaries. 

In reality the capillaries are as much smaller than threads 
as the smallest threads are smaller than cables. So close 




FIG. 91. The Right Axillary 
and Brachial Arteries, with 
Some of their Main 
Branches. 



set are these tiny vessels that we cannot prick any part of 
the skin, even with the finest needle, without wounding 
many of them and drawing blood. They are so small that 
three thousand of them placed side by side would not, in 
their united width, measure more than one inch. 

206. The Interchange between the Blood in the Capillaries 
and the Lymph in the Tissues. The capillaries are closed 
vessels. The space between the walls of the capillaries 



148 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

and the cells of the tissues is filled with a clear, watery 
fluid known as lymph. 

As the blood flows along the capillaries, certain parts of 
the plasma of the blood filter through their walls into the 
lymph, and certain parts of the lymph filter in the opposite 
direction through the walls of the capillaries and mingle 
with the blood current. A constant interchange of mate- 
rial is thus going on between the lymph which bathes the 
tissues and the blood in the capillaries. 

In brief, the lymph acts as a medium of exchange between the 
blood and the tissues. 

207. The General Course of Circulation. We are now 
ready to study the circulation as a whole, tracing the course 
of the blood from a certain point until it returns to the 
same point. We may conveniently begin with the portion 
of blood contained at any moment in the right auricle. 

We may perhaps better understand the general course 
of circulation if we subdivide it into two parts : the pul- 
monary circulation, or circulation in the lungs, and the 
systemic, or greater, circulation. 

We must keep clearly in mind, however, that there is 
but a single circulation in the body. 

208. The Pulmonary, or Lesser, Circulation. Two large 
veins are busily filling the right auricle with dark (venous) 
blood, collected from all parts of the body. When the 
auricle contracts, the blood cannot get back into the great 
veins because it is flushed forward by the great volume 
of blood behind it. The door opening into the right 
ventricle lies open, and the blood flows through it until it 
is full. 

The ventricle now begins to contract ; the tricuspid valve 
at once closes and thus prevents the backward flow of 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 
G 



149 




FIG. 92. Diagram of the Circulation of Blood. 

R.A., right auricle; L.A., left auricle; R.V., right ventricle: Z.K, left 
ventricle ; P.A., pulmonary artery ; A, pulmonary artery and vein 
of right lung ; B, pulmonary artery and vein of left lung ; C, carotid 
artery to head, showing branch of left subclavian artery ; D, portal 
vein ; E, hepatic vein ; F, hepatic artery ; G, superior vena cava, 
bringing blood from head and upper limbs to right auricle. 



150 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

blood. The blood is driven into the pulmonary artery past 
the semilunar valves. 

The pulmonary artery carries the blood to the lungs. 
The dark, impure blood is driven along smaller and smaller 
vessels until it reaches the capillaries of the lungs. Here 
it is, as it were, spread out to be purified. Exposed to the 
oxygen of the air, the blood gives up carbon dioxide and 
other impurities and loses its purple color. It takes up a 
great deal of the oxygen of the air in exchange, and in 
a purified state and of a bright scarlet color, it comes 
back to the heart by the four pulmonary veins which pour 
it into the left auricle. 

209. The Systemic, or Greater, Circulation. From the 
left auricle the blood is forced past the mitral valve into 
the left ventricle. As soon as the left ventricle is full it 
begins to contract. The mitral valve at once closes and 
blocks up the passage into the left auricle, and the blood 
has no other way open but past the semilunar valves l into 
the aorta. 

The aorta and its branches, as we already know, dis- 
tribute the blood through every tissue of the body. From 
the tissues it is again returned by the veins to the right 
auricle of the heart, and thus the round of circulation is 
continually kept up. 

Experiment 43. To illustrate some of the phenomena of circula- 
tion. Attach a piece of rubber tube about six or eight feet long to 
the delivery end of a common rubber bulb syringe. 

To represent in a very crude way the resistance made by the capil- 
laries to the flow of blood, slip the large end of a common glass medi- 
cine dropper into the outer end of the rubber tube. This dropper 
has one end tapered to a fine point. 

1 The entrance to the aorta is guarded by three semilunar valves similar 
to those at the entrance of the pulmonary artery. 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 



Place the syringe flat, without kinks or bends, on a desk or table. 
Press the bulb slowly and regularly. The water is thus pumped into 
the tube in an intermittent manner, and yet it is forced out of the 
tapering end of the glass tube in a steady flow. 




FIG. 93. William Harvey demonstrating the Circulation of Blood to 
King Charles the First of England. 1 

210. The Portal Circulation. The blood which is brought 
to the capillaries of the stomach, intestines, spleen, and pan- 
creas takes a roundabout course to get back to the heart. 

1 William Harvey was a famous English physician who discovered the 
circulation of the blood, nearly three hundred years ago. This fine picture 
represents the king as witnessing the dissection of a doe, of which he had 
placed many at Harvey's disposal while the great physician was making 
his investigations concerning the circulation of the blood. 

The picture is used by the kind permission of William Wood & Co., 
publishers. 



152 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



It is collected into veins which unite into a single trunk, 
called the portal vein, which enters the liver. 

The blood, now mingling with that brought to the liver 
by the hepatic artery, is carried by small veins which at 
length unite into a large trunk, the hepatic vein. This vein 
pours the blood into the inferior vena cava, which carries 
it to the right auricle (Fig. 74). 

This loop, as we may call it, on the systemic circulation 
is often called the portal circulation. 



Experiment 44. To show the circulation in the iveb of a frog's 
foot. 1 To show the circulation in a frog's foot it is necessary to 
hold the frog in place. Take a piece of soft wood about six inches 

long and three wide. At about 
two inches from one end cut a 
hole half an inch in diameter and 
cover it with a glass slide, which 
should be let into the wood, level 
with the surface. Then wrap the 
frog in a damp cheese cloth, leaving 
one foot exposed. Next, fasten 
a piece of thread to each of the 




FIG. 94. 



1 The student may find it easier to 
manage a tadpole than a frog. The 
following experiment showing the cir- 



Showing how the circulation of blood culation of the blood in the tail of 



in the web of a frog's foot looks as 
seen under the microscope. 



a tadpole is taken from Peabody's 
Laboratory Exercises in Anatomy and 
Physiology, p. 56. 

Cut a hole a half inch square near the end of a piece of thin board three 
inches long and one inch wide ; glue a thin cover glass over the hole. 
Cover the rest of the piece of wood with absorbent cotton soaked in water. 
Lay a live tadpole on the cotton, placing the tip of the tail on the cover 
glass. Lay a cover glass on top of the tail, and fasten cheese cloth over 
the animal to keep it in place. Keep a plentiful supply of moisture about 
the animal by allowing the end of the strip of cloth to dip into a dish of 
water. Examine the tip of the tail with a compound microscope magni- 
fying about seyenty-five diameters. 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 153 

two longest toes, but not tight enough to stop the circulation or 
hurt the frog. 

Fasten the frog upon the board in such a way that the foot will 
just come over the glass slide. Pull carefully the thread tied to the 
toes, so as to spread out the web over the glass. Fasten the threads 
by drawing them into slits cut in the sides of the board. The board 
should now be fixed by elastic bands, or by any other convenient 
means, upon the stage of the microscope. The web should be occa- 
sionally moistened with water. Care should be taken not to occasion 
any pain to the frog. The circulation of blood thus shown is a 
wonderful sight, and never to be forgotten. 

211. The Beat, or Impulse, of the Heart. If the hand 
be laid flat over the chest wall on the left side, a peculiar 
throbbing will be felt. This throbbing movement is known 
as the beat, or impulse, of the heart. It is due to the hard, 
tense part of the ventricles coming in contact with the 
chest wall at the moment when the hardening of the ven- 
tricles takes place. The heart beats are unusually strong 
during active bodily exertion and under mental excitement. 

212. The Sounds of the Heart. If we place our ear 
against a friend's chest, over the region of the heart, we 
hear two distinct sounds. These sounds may be fairly 
imitated by pronouncing the syllables lub, dup. The first 
is a dull, muffled sound, known as the "first sound," fol- 
lowed at once by a shorter and sharper sound, known as 
the " second sound " of the heart. 1 

213. The Pulse. If the finger be placed over an artery 
which lies near the surface of the body, like the radial 

1 The precise cause of the first sound is not certainly known, but the 
second sound is, without doubt, caused by the tension of the semilunar 
valves of the pulmonary artery and the aorta at the moment when the 
contraction of the ventricles is completed. If these valves are diseased 
and do not shut properly, a blowing sound or murmur will be produced. 
Thus, by listening to the sounds of the heart a doctor may be able to tell 
whether the valves are out of order. 



154 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



artery, for instance, near the wrist, 
or the temporal artery, just over 
the temples, a slight throbbing 
pressure on the finger will be felt. 
This pressure, which comes and 
goes at regular intervals, corre- 
sponds to the beats of the heart. 
It is called the pulse. 

Let us learn the reason for it. 
When the left ventricle contracts, 
the blood is forced into the arter- 
ies and their walls are suddenly 
distended. This wave of disten- 
sion, or pulse, can be felt in all 
the large arteries. 

In a grown person the pulse beats 
about seventy-two times a minute. 
In children the pulse is quicker 
than in adults. In old age the 
pulse is slower than in adult life. 

By feeling the pulse with a skilled 
touch it can be told whether the 
heart beat is too fast or too slow, 
strong or weak, regular or irregular. 
Thus, the pulse is a most important 
guide to the doctor, for it may tell 

FIG. 95. The Infenor Vena 8 

Cava and the Superior him many things about the condi- 

Vena Cava, with their tion of his patient. 
Connecting Veins. 

A, inferior vena cava, cut off just above the hepatic veins : B, superior vena cava, cut 
off just below the junction of the innominate veins ; C, right and left innominate 
veins ; Z>, left internal jugular vein. The veins, known as azygos, with some of 
their main branches, are shown. These veins connect the superior vena cava and 
the inferior veaa cava. 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 155 

Experiment 45. To illustrate the effect of muscular exercise in 
quickening the pulse. Run a short distance. Count the pulse both 
before and after. Note the effect of 
running upon the rate. 

Experiment 46. To hear the sounds 
of the heart. Borrow a stethoscope from 
some physician and listen to the heart 
beat of a friend. Note the sounds of 
your own heart in the same way. 

Experiment 47. To find the pulse. 
Grasp the wrist of a friend, pressing 
with three fingers over the artery, and 
note the pulse. Press three fingers over 
the radius in your own wrist, and note 
the pulse. 

Count by a watch the rate of your 
pulse per minute, and do the same with 
a friend's pulse. Compare its character 
with your own. 

214. How Alcohol gets into the 
Blood. Alcohol passes into the 
blood by two distinct routes. When 
an alcoholic liquor is taken into the 
stomach, some of it at once soaks 
through the coats of the tiny blood 
vessels with which the inner wall 
of the stomach is covered, and is 
carried into the blood current by 
the portal circulation. 

Alcohol is also taken up by the FlG - 96- The Internal, or 
. , . . , , ,., Long Saphenous, Vein 

lacteals, and is emptied by them of t * e L ^ ft Leg 
into the blood current by way of 

the thoracic duct. Now, although alcohol goes to the heart 
to be sent to every part of the body in this roundabout way 




I 5 6 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



through the liver, it takes only a moment or two for it to 
get into the main blood stream. 

A glass of strong drink soon "goes to the head," as 
many people know, showing that its effects are rapidly 
produced in the cells of the brain. The rapidity of this 
absorption depends upon the kind of 
liquor and whether the stomach is empty 
or full. 

215. The Effect of Alcohol upon the 
Blood Vessels. The effect of alcohol on 
the circulation is shown by its action 
on the nervous system. The muscular 
walls of the arteries are made larger or 
smaller by means of tiny nerves which 
regulate their size. 

Even a moderate amount of alcohol 
disorders or paralyzes for a time the 
action of those nerves which control 
the blood vessels. The muscular fibers 
of the arteries are relaxed, the blood 
distends them, and the skin appears 
redder and seems warmer than before 
the alcohol was taken. This feeling 
of warmth is due to the heat that is 
FIG. 97 . The Femoral forced to the surface of the body by the 
blood. This also explains the flushed 
face and warm glow which so often mark the appearance 
of moderate drinkers. 

216. Further Effect of Alcohol upon the Blood Vessels. 
Under the influence of alcohol, the walls of the blood ves- 
sels, especially the capillaries, after a time become perma- 
nently dilated. This chronic enlargement of the arterial 




THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 



157 



twigs is often seen in the red-streaked nose, the red or 
purplish face, and the bloodshot eyes of those who have 
indulged in strong drink for a long time. 

The continued use of alcoholic beverages may gradually 
bring about a change in the muscular walls of the arteries. 
In some cases there is an undue deposit of fat cells and other 
morbid products. The 
weakened and stiffened 
arterial walls now gradu- 
ally lose their elasticity 
so that they are less able 
to do their part in the cir- 
culation of the blood. At 
last the walls of the ar- 
teries become weakened, 
especially in the arteries 
of the brain. Owing to 
some unusual strain of 
work, or through mental 
excitement, the walls of 
the enfeebled blood ves- 
sels of the brain may 
burst and cause death 
from apoplexy. 1 

217. Effect of Alcohol upon the Structure of the Heart. 
The long-continued use of strong drink may produce 

1 The primary effects of a moderate dose of diluted alcohol, as a glass of 
whisky and water, on one unaccustomed to it, are to cause dilation of the 
blood vessels of the skin, indicated by the flushed face, a more rapid beat of 
the heart, and nervous excitement exhibited by talkativeness. 

Blood containing two and one-half parts to one thousand of absolute 
alcohol almost invariably diminishes within a minute the work done by the 
heart. H. NEWELL MARTIN, M.D. 




FIG. 98. Arteries and their Branches 
at the Base of the Brain. 



158 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

important changes in the structure of the heart. As with 
the walls of the arteries, so with the heart : the prolonged 
use of alcohol may cause a deposit of fatty 
tissue in place of the muscular fibers. 

This diseased condition, known as " fatty 
degeneration," may seriously interfere with 
the heart's power of contraction. The walls 
may become much thicker and the ventricles 
smaller from this deposit of fat, and thus 
the overtired organ may fail in its efforts 
to pump forward the blood which rushes in 
from the auricles. 

. Alcoholic excess may also cause an over- 
growth of adipose tissue upon the surface 
of the heart which may seriously interfere 
with the normal cardiac action. 

Again, the ventricles may become much 
too large, and from lack of proper elasticity 
may be unable to pump forward the blood. 
All these conditions are apt to cause the 
valves to lose their suppleness, and may 
cause death by what is known as sudden 
heart failure. 

218. Effect of Tobacco upon the Heart. 
The nicotine of tobacco acts to partially 
paralyze the nerves that control the heart's 
FIG. 99. Artery in action. Under its influence the move- 
trie Front of the ments o f the heart are irregular, now feeble 
and fluttering, now thumping with appar- 
ently much force. Frequently there is severe pain about 
the heart, often dizziness with gasping breath, extreme 
pallor, and fainting. 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 159 

While tobacco may cause a more or less injurious effect 
upon other organs of the body, it is upon the heart that it 
may work its most serious wrong. Upon this most impor- 
tant organ its effect is often to depress and paralyze. 
Especially does this apply to the young, whose bodies are 
not yet knit into the vigor of manhood. 

219. Heart Disease caused by Tobacco. There are few 
conditions more distressing than the suffering produced by 
a palpitating heart. It is claimed by medical men that 
about one in every four tobacco users is subject, in some 
degree, to this disturbance. Test examinations of a large 
number of boys who had used cigarettes showed that only 
a very small percentage escaped cardiac trouble. 

The condition of the pulse is a guide to this state of the 
heart. In this the physician reads plainly the existence 
of the "tobacco heart," an affection clearly recognized by 
the medical profession. 

Many of the young men who made application to enlist 
during our war with Spain, in 1898, were rejected because 
the physical examination revealed a tobacco heart. 

Of older tobacco users there are very few but have some 
warning of the effects of overindulgence in this narcotic. 
Generally they suffer more or less from the tobacco heart,, 
and if the nervous system or the heart be naturally feeble v 
they suffer all the more speedily and intensely. 1 



1 The irregularity in the heart's action, which tobacco causes, is one of 
its most conspicuous effects. Candidates, who are annually rejected for 
cardiac disturbances, have subsequently admitted the use of tobacco ; the 
annual physical examination of cadets reveals a large number of irritable 
hearts tobacco hearts among boys. Surgeon General U. S. Navy. 

Tobacco, and especially cigarettes, being a depressant upon the heart, 
should be positively forbidden. J. M. KEATING, M.D., on " Physical 
Development," in Cydopcedia of the Diseases af Children. 



160 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT 

I. What are the two general uses of the blood? 2. State in a 
general way where the blood vessels are found. 3. Give some of the 
properties of blood. 4. Of what does blood consist, and why does 
it look red? 5. What simple experiment will illustrate in a general 
way why the blood seems uniformly red? 6. Describe the red cor- 
puscles. 7. Of what use are the red corpuscles ? 8. Describe the 
white corpuscles. 9. State briefly the use of the white corpuscles. 
10. How does blood look when examined with the microscope ? 

II. What happens if blood is allowed to stand for a short time? 
12. What is meant by the coagulation of the blood ? 13. Describe 
the serum of the blood. 14. Of what is the clot composed ? 15. Why 
is the clotting of blood important ? 16. Describe briefly the apparatus 
concerned in the circulation of blood. 17. How may the blood cir- 
culation be compared to the water service of a city? 18. Describe 
the heart. 19. What is the pericardium ? 20. In what simple way 
may the position of the pericardium be shown ? 

21. Describe the chambers, or cavities, of the heart. 22. What are 
the valves of the heart? 23. Describe the action of the various 
valves. 24. What can be said of the work done by the heart? 
25. What is the aorta ? 26. Describe the pulmonary veins. 27. Describe 
the pulmonary artery. 28. What are the two largest veins of the 
body, and what is their action? 29. Mention some of the main 
branches of the aorta. 30. What are veins? 

31. What simple experiment will illustrate the action of the veins? 
32. What are capillaries ? 33. What interchange takes place between 
the blood and the lymph ? 34. Into what two parts may the course 
of the circulation be subdivided? 35. Describe the pulmonary circu- 
lation. 36. Describe the-systemic circulation. 37. What is meant 
by the portal circulation? 38. What is the beat, or impulse, of the 
heart? 39. What are the two sounds of the heart? 40. What is 
the pulse, and what may it indicate to the doctor? 

41. How does alcohol get into the blood? 42. What is the effect 
of alcohol upon the blood vessels? 43. What is the effect of alco- 
holic excess upon the heart ? 44. How does tobacco affect the heart ? 
45. Describe the so-called " tobacco heart." 






CHAPTER VIII 
BREATHING 

220. The Act of Breathing. Night and day, without one 
minute's rest, from the first to the last moment of our 
lives, we are breathing. Most of the time we do not think 
anything about it. We eat, talk, work, and sleep ; and all 
this time our breathing goes quietly on. We can hold our 
breath for a short time, yet after a few seconds we begin 
to feel uncomfortable. 

221. The Object of Breathing. In studying food and 
blood, we have learned that without food and air the burn- 
ing, or oxidation, which is slowly going on in our bodies 
all the time, would soon flag, and life would come to an end. 

We have learned that the dark blood is sent to the lungs 
from the right ventricle and is returned to the left auricle 
as blood of a bright red color. The blood has got rid of 
part of its waste matter, and has taken up oxygen. 

Hence, in breathing we have two objects in view: first, 
to give a fresh supply of oxygen to the blood ; second, to 
get rid of carbon dioxide and other waste matter taken up 
from the tissues and brought to the lungs by the blood. 

222. The Air Passages. The air is drawn into the lungs 
through the mouth, the nostrils, and the windpipe. 

The nostrils are really the passageways for the air, and 
warm it somewhat before it passes into the windpipe, or 
trachea, on its way to the lungs. 

161 



162 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



The windpipe is a tube about four inches long, which 
is protected on the front and sides by stout rings of 
cartilage. But for these rings the windpipe would close 
with the slightest pressure and cut off our breath. 




FIG. 100. Relative Position of the Lungs, the Heart, and Some of 
the Great Vessels belonging to the Latter. 

A, left ventricle ; B, right ventricle ; C, left auricle ; D, right auricle ; , superior 
vena cava ; F, pulmonary artery ; G, aorta ; If, arch of the aorta ; K, innomi- 
nate artery ; Z,, right common carotid artery ; M, right subclavian artery ; 
.W, thyroid cartilage forming upper portion of the larynx ; O, trachea. 

The top of the windpipe is protected by a trapdoor 
known as the epiglottis. This little door, as we have learned, 
shuts tight when food is swallowed, and keeps the food out 
of the air passages ; otherwise the food would go the wrong 
way, and cut short our breath (Sec. 153 and Fig. 69). 



BREATHING 



163 



The upper part of the windpipe is a kind of box called 
the larynx, or organ of voice. In this box are the vocal cords. 
In some persons it is very prominent, and the front edge 
of it is commonly called 
"Adam's apple "(Figs. 100, 
173, 174, and 175). 

223. The Bronchial 
Tubes. The windpipe, 
after entering the chest, 
divides into two branches 
called bronchi, one to each 
lung. These again divide 
into smaller tubes called 
bronchial tubes. 

Each bronchial tube 
divides again into smaller 
branches, these again into 
smaller, and- so on to the 
tiniest twigs many times 
smaller than the hairs of 
our head. 

The numberless bron- 
chial tubes pass to all parts 

of the lungs, and end finally FIG. 101. Larynx, Trachea, and the 

in clusters of short, blind, BronchL < Front view '> 

-, i -i 1 -\ A. epiglottis ; B. thyroid cartilage ; C. crico- 

and somewhat dilated ' th p y f oid m ' embrane; connecting wiih the 




cricoid cartilage below, all forming the 
larynx ; D, rings of the trachea. 



1 



pouches called alveoli. 

Each of these closed, 

dilated ends is divided into a number of air cavities or 

air sacs. 

If we remember that all these tubes, great and small, 
are hollow, we may compare them to a short bush or tree 



1 64 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



growing upside down in the chest, of which the windpipe 

is the trunk, the bronchial tubes are the branches, and the 

air cavities of the lungs are the leaves. 

224. The Lungs. The lungs are two large, pinkish, 

spongy organs, which surround the heart and the large 

vessels, and fill up. 
all the rest of the 
chest cavity. So 
light and spongy is 
their structure that 
a piece of a lung, 
unlike any other 
tissue, will float in 
water. 

The right lung 
is the larger of the 
two, and has three 
parts, or lobes. The 

FIG. 102. The Lungs, with the Trachea, Bronchi, left lun & haS Onl y 

and Larger Bronchial Tubes exposed. (Pos- two lobes. Each 

tenor view,) lobe j s also made 

A, division of left bronchus to upper lobe ; B, left branch f ornimQ 

of the pulmonary artery; C, left bronchus; Z>, left U P ( m 7 g rou P s 

superior pulmonary vein ; E, left inferior pulmonary of Smaller part S, 
vein ; F, left auricle ; K, inferior vena cava ; , divis- 11 ^1 i u i V> 

ion of right bronchus to lower lobe ; M, right inferior ( 1 lot)ules > eac 

pulmonary vein ; N, right superior pulmonary vein ; with its little bron- 

O, right branch of the pulmonary artery ; P, division v* 1 + V 

of right bronchus to upper lobe; R, left ventricle; cnial tUDC, air SaCS, 

S, right ventricle. and blood Vessels. 

The chest is lined and each lung covered with a smooth, 
delicate lining, called the pleura. These two surfaces rub 
against each other when we breathe. This lining secretes 
a fluid which keeps the parts moist and thus prevents an 
undue amount of friction. 




BREATHING 165 

225. How Nature protects the Air Passages. The inside 
walls of the windpipe and bronchial tubes are lined with 
a mucous membrane, which secretes a thick, sticky fluid 
called " mucus," to keep the passages moist. This mem- 
brane is covered with microscopic, threadlike processes 
called cilia, so close together that they resemble somewhat 
the pile on velvet. They seem to wave to and fro, like a 
field of grain under a gust of wind (Fig. 4). 

The cilia always bend upwards and outwards towards 
the mouth with considerable force and then resume their 
former position with a very gentle movement. They sweep 
up bits of dust and mucus which are expelled by a sudden 
blast of air which we call coughing. These tiny cilia are 
simply the dusters which nature uses to keep the air pas- 
sages neat and clean. 

Experiment 48. The respiratory sounds may be heard fairly well 
by applying the ear flat to the chest, with only one garment inter- 
posed. Borrow a stethoscope from a physician and listen to the 
respiration over the chest. Note the difference of the sounds in 
inspiration and in expiration. Do not confuse the heart sounds with 
those of respiration. 

Experiment 49. Place a large sponge, which will represent the 
lungs, in a paper bag which justs fits it; this will represent the 
pulmonary layer of the pleura. Place the sponge and paper bag 
inside a second paper bag, which will represent the parietal layer 
of the pleura. Join the mouths of the two bags. The two surfaces of 
the bags which are now in contact will represent the two surfaces 
of the pleura. 

Experiment 50. Get a sheep's lungs, with the windpipe attached. 
Ask for the heart and lungs all in one mass. Examine the windpipe. 
Note the horseshoe-shaped rings of cartilage in front, which serve to 
keep it open. Put pieces of the lung tissue in a basin of water and 
.note that they float. 



1 66 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



Experiment 51. To show how the lungs may be filled with air. 
Take the lungs saved from Experiment 50. Tie a glass tube six 
inches long into the larynx. Attach a piece of rubber tubing to one 
end of the glass tube. Now inflate the lungs by blowing through 
the rubber tube several times and let them collapse. 




FIG. 103. Relative Position of the Lungs, the Heart, and Some of 
the Great Vessels belonging to the Latter. (Posterior view.) 

A, left common carotid artery ; B, external carotid artery ; C, internal carotid 
artery ; JD, left jugular vein ; E, sterno-cleido muscle ; f, right innominate 
artery with branches to head and arm , G, left subclavian artery ; H, great 
azygos vein ; K, thoracic duct. 



BREATHING 



I6 7 



226. The Movements of Breathing. If we put both hands 
on the sides of our own chest and breathe in deeply, 
we feel that the act has carried the hands farther apart. 
Again, if we put one hand across the middle of our chest, 
we feel that it is carried forward every time we breathe 
in and is returned 
to its place as we 
breathe out. 

Again, if we 
pass a tape meas- 
ure round the 
chest and draw it 
tight when we 
breathe out, we 
find that the tape 
must be let out 
two or three inches 
as we breathe in. 
If we breathe in 
and out with a 
great deal of force, 
the changes are 




more marked. 



CUIU. . 



FIG. 104. 

Diagram showing how, as the ribs move upward, the ster- 
num moves forward, and increases the size of the chest 
Hence there are during inspiration. The first seven ribs are numbered. 
tWO movements in Dotted lines indicate position in inspiration. A and B 
indicate the extent of the movement. 

breathing, in one 

of which the cavity of the chest is made larger in all its 
dimensions. This is when we breathe in air, and it is 
called inspiration. 

The other movement is the one by which the chest 
cavity is made smaller. This is when we breathe out air, 
and it is called expiration. 



168 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



The movements by which air is breathed in and out of 
the lungs make up the act of respiration. 

227. How we breathe. The cavity of the chest is a 
closed, air-tight chamber, whose only opening is the wind- 
pipe. The pressure of the air in the air passages keeps 
the lungs stretched out so as to fill this cavity. Imagine 
now such a chamber as this to have a kind of floor, capable 

of moving up and down. When 
the floor moves down, the cav- 
ity will be enlarged, and the 
pressure of the air inside the 
lungs will then cause them to 
expand to a greater extent to 
fill up the extra space. 

When the floor is raised again, 
the cavity will be diminished 
and the lungs, being diminished 
also, will give up the extra air 
FIG. 105. BLACKBOARD SKETCH, which they have taken in. 

A Lobule of the Lung. The diaphragm serves as a 

A, an air sac ; B, an air sac cut open ; kind of movable floor to the 
C, capillary network over an air i , ,-p. . 

sac ; >, branch of pulmonary artery; ( 

These two movements are 
performed at regular intervals 
and constitute the process of breathing. 

228. Inspiration and Expiration. The cavity of the chest, 
however, is enlarged in another way. The walls of the chest 
are formed by the ribs, which encircle it and join the breast- 
bone in front. The spaces between the ribs are filled with 
a set of strong muscles called the intercostal muscles. 

One set of these intercostal muscles contracts, and pulls 
up the ribs, which are fastened to the backbone behind by 




, branch of pulmonary vein; F, 
bronchial tube. 



BREATHING 



169 



a joint. When the ribs are raised, they push out the breast- 
bone in front, and thus the cavity of the chest is enlarged. 
This enlargement by means of the side walls takes place at 
the same time that the diaphragm descends, so that the 
chest is enlarged in all its dimensions (Fig. 104). 

An extra quantity of air then rushes into the lungs and 
we get an inspiration. 

Immediately following the inspiration, the diaphragm 
relaxes, and, of 
course, rises ; and, 
at the same time, 
another set of in- 
tercostal muscles 
begins to pull the 
ribs and breastbone 
down. 

These combined 
movements dimin- 
ish the cavity of the 
chest, and conse- 
quently the air is 
driven out. This 
makes an expiration. 




FIG. 106. 



Showing the walls of air sacs with blood capillaries 
injected. The dark lines are the capillaries 
magnified about 30 times. The white spaces 
are air sacs cut across. 



Experiment 52. To 

show hoiv the size of 

the chest varies during 

respiration. Stand 

erect with shoulders well thrown back. While breathing naturally, 

allow some friend to pass a tape around the body just under the arms, 

bringing the ends of the tape together across the front of the chest. 

Take the exact measure (Fig. 104). 

Repeat as before, while taking a long, deep inspiration. Hold the 
breath and measure as before. Note the difference in measurement. 



I/O 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



229. The Air we breathe. The air that we breathe is 
chiefly a mixture of two gases, oxygen and nitrogen, in the 
proportion of one part of the former to four of the latter. 

Oxygen is the active gas, the life-giving principle of 
nature. It has been well named "the great supporter of 
animal life." 

Nitrogen is mixed with it, otherwise the oxygen would 
be too strong for us, and would burn us up too fast. In 

short, nature kindly 
tempers with nitro- 
gen the air which we 
breathe. 

230. How the Air 
is changed in Breath- 
ing. If we examine 
the air before it en- 
ters the lungs, and 
again after it has 
passed through them, 
we shall find that, 

FIG. 107. A Portion of a Child's Lung. while the bulk is al- 
Lobules of various sizes are well shown. most exactly the 

same, the composi- 
tion has been changed. It has left behind about one 
quarter of its oxygen, and has taken in exchange for it 
nearly the same quantity of carbon dioxide, a gas which is 
destructive to life when present in large amounts. Carbon 
dioxide is not poisonous in itself, but its presence excludes 
the life-giving oxygen. 

About thirty cubic inches of air pass in and out of the 
lungs with every breath, and more than three hundred 
cubic feet every twenty-four hours. 




BREATHING 



I/I 



231. Other Changes in the Air we breathe. The air, as 
it leaves the lungs, is saturated with watery vapor. This is 
seen when we breathe on the bright steel blade of a pocket- 
knife, a mirror, or any cold, polished surface. As we all 
know, the surface becomes covered with a thin film, or 
minute drops of water. In cold 
weather this moisture becomes 
visible with each expiration. 

Air as it leaves the lungs is 
warmer than the surrounding air. 
It is generally about 98 F. For 
this reason, on a cold day, when 
our breath passes off as a cloud 
of steam, we blow on our fingers 
to warm them. 

The air breathed out of the 
lungs also contains a small 
amount of decaying animal mat- 
ter. Everybody knows the un- 
pleasant odor of the air in rooms 
in which many persons have been 
closely shut up. 




FIG. 1 08. 



Showing the structure of a lobule 
of the lung. The lobule has been 
injected with mercury,afterwards 
dried and cut open. A large 
bronchial tube with its various 
branches is well shown. 



Experiment 53. To show that the 
air we expire is warm and moist. 
Breathe on a thermometer for a few 
minutes. The mercury will rise rapidly. 

Breathe on a mirror, a knife blade, or any polished metallic 
surface, and note the deposit of moisture. 

Experiment 54. To show that the expired air contains carbon 
dioxide. Put a glass tube into a glass of clear limewater and blow 
through the tube. The liquid will soon become milky, because the 
carbon dioxide of the expired air unites with the lime held in solu- 
tion and forms the white, solid carbonate of lime. 



1/2 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

Experiment 55. Pass a tube through a cork ; fix the cork tightly 
into a dry, wide-mouthed bottle. Breathe in and out of the bottle 
several times in succession until a feeling of suffocation is felt. The 
bottle will become moist and warm. 

If, holding the bottle upside down, we take the cork out and pass 
a lighted splinter of wood within, the light will be at once put out, 
for the oxygen will have almost entirely disappeared, and it is replaced 
by carbon dioxide. 

232. The Diffusion of Gases. Let us try to understand 
how this exchange of gases takes place between the air 
and the blood. 

Experiments carried on outside of the body prove that 
gases can pass through delicate membranes. If a bladder 
is filled with oxygen and then hung in a bottle filled with 
carbon dioxide, the two gases will mix with each other. 
The oxygen will pass out through the 
thin membrane, and the carbon diox- 
ide will pass in. This is in accordance 
with a well-known law of physical 
science and is known as the diffusion 

FIG. 109. Diagrammatic of S ases - 

view of an Air Sac. 233. Exchange of Gases between the 
A, epithelial lining wall; Blood and the Air. An exchange of 

B, partition between two ,, . , , . , 

adjacent sacs, in which gases really takes place in the tissues 
run capillaries; c, fibers o f the body every moment of our 

of elastic tissue. .. _ . . 1 

lives. The blood and the air cavities 

of the lungs are separated from each other only by the 
thin and delicate epithelial lining wall of the air sacs and 
by the walls of the capillaries. 

Blood with oxygen and carbon dioxide is on one side of 
this thin, moist membrane, and the air in the air sacs con- 
taining the same two gases is on the other side. The 
proportion of carbon dioxide in the blood is greater than 





BREATHING 173 

that in the air sacs, and the proportion of oxygen in the 
blood is less than that in the air sacs. 

A diffusion of the gases takes place. 

The blood, by this act of breathing, gains oxygen and 
loses carbon dioxide. 

The air sacs lose oxygen 
and gain carbon dioxide. 

234. Respiration in all 
of the Tissues. The blood 
thus freighted with oxy- 
gen travels to the left side 
of the heart, is pumped 
out through the aorta, and 

whirled away to the tissues FIQ IIQ BLACKBOARD SKETCH . 
in every part of the body. Diagram showing Capil]ary Network of 

The tissues are most eager the Air Sacs and Origin of the Pul- 

to combine with the life- monai 7 Veins - 

giving OXygen and tO give A > small branch of pulmonary artery ; B twigs 

of pulmonary artery ; C, capillary network 

Up Carbon dioxide tO the around the walls of the air sacs ; D, branches 
blood ^ networ k converging to form the veinlets 

of the pulmonary veins. 

The oxygen given off 

to the tissues by the arterial blood in the capillaries may 
not be used to produce oxidation at once, but may be stored 
up for future use in muscular and other tissues. 

During severe exercise the amount of carbon dioxide 
breathed out may often exceed the whole amount of oxy- 
gen taken in by the lungs during the time of action. In 
other words, during severe exercise the muscles may use 
up the oxygen which has been stored in their tissues during 
periods of rest. 

235. Impurities in the Air. There are many things 
which may make the air we breathe unwholesome. The 



1/4 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

poisoned air due to cesspools, drains, and sewers is a fre- 
quent source of disease. Sewer gas, the foul air from 
chemical works, bone and soap factories, and many other 
manufacturing places, may be hurtful to health. 

Certain occupations may shorten life by exposure to air 
laden with impurities. Thus, there is the "miner's con- 
sumption," or "black lung," due to the dust which is 
breathed into the lungs, and acts like so many little splin- 
ters in the delicate air cells. Refiners of mercury work 
in a deadly atmosphere. Those who work on steel, emery, 
cutlery, pottery, etc., also suffer from the irritating dust 
floating in the air. 

Other impurities are highly injurious to the lungs, as the 
dust in match factories, white-lead works, and copper and 
brass foundries. In fact, among some classes of factory 
workers the rate of mortality is higher than among firemen, 
freight brakemen, and men in other pursuits known to 
involve great risk of life. 

236. How Bacteria may be carried in the Air. Many 
kinds of bacteria are carried in the air. Some of these 
germs may grow and produce disease if taken into the body 
through the air passages, in the food, or in drinking water. 
Thus, we shall learn that the germs of certain infectious 
diseases may be carried in the air and produce similar diseases 
in persons who may become infected by them. 

The germs of disease after floating about in the air for a 
time may settle with the dust. If an infected room is not 
properly swept and dusted, there is an ever-present danger 
of spreading contagious diseases. Hence a sick room should 
be kept rigidly clean and furnished with a constant supply 
of pure, fresh air. It is well known that the dust in the 
streets of large towns contains the germs of disease. 



BREATHING 



175 



237. The Dangers from Pulmonary Infection. There is 
an infectious disease called tuberculosis of the lungs, but com- 
monly known as consumption. It is caused by the growth 
within the lungs of a disease germ called bacillus tuberculosis. 

The sputum of a 
consumptive swarms 
with these bacteria. 
This infected matter, 
falling upon the street 
or about a room, soon 
dries and may become 
mixed with the com- 
mon dust floating 
through the air. It 
may retain its vitality 
for a long time as a 
part of the dust of 



damp, filthy, or over- 
crowded houses. 




FIG. in. Bacillus Tuberculosis. 



A minute portion of sputum from a case of phthisis, 
1 illS GUSt Wiien in- or consumption of the lungs, magnified 1000 diam- 
eters. These bacilli are rod-shaped bacteria, 
stained to show black. The black spots in the 
figure are merely the debris in the sputum, also 
stained so that they look black. 






haled often finds in 
the body a congenial 
soil upon which the 
seeds of this dread disease may be transplanted. 

238. Ventilation. The best way to rid our rooms and 
premises of impure air is by some suitable system of venti- 
lation, that is, some practical and efficient plan to keep 
the air pure and wholesome without making it too cold. If 
we do our best, however, we cannot keep the air of our living 
rooms as pure as the outside air ; for, as we have seen, 
every person in the room, with every breath, is consuming 
the oxygen and imparting carbon dioxide to the air. 



176 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

239. How to ventilate. An open fireplace is a safe, 
healthy, but not economical means of heating and ventilat- 
ing a room. Stoves in a room soon dry the air, unless fresh 
air from outside is constantly supplied. When rooms are 
warmed by heated air from furnaces, the warm air should 
enter through registers near the ceiling, on one side of the 
room ; and impure air should escape through outlets near 
the floor, on the other side. 

Children should be trained from infancy to sleep with a 
window partly open for the greater part of the year. Adult 
people in vigorous health should gradually learn to do the 
same. Even in the coldest weather some plan of venti- 
lation for the living rooms, but especially for the sleeping 
rooms, should be provided. Draughts must be avoided. 

Any simple apparatus to let in fresh air will answer every 
purpose. Raise the window a few inches and put a piece 
of board under the lower sash. Pure air will enter where 
the two sashes overlap. 1 

1 Above all things, avoid sitting, standing, or lying in a cool, breezy place 
when you are warm from active exercise. This is a sure way to catch cold. 
Do not stand by open windows or open doors when the air of the house is 
warmer than that outside. You are subjected to a strong draught, which 
is sure to result in a cold. Do not stop to talk in the doorway when 
parting from a friend. 

Do not throw off your wraps too suddenly when coming in warm with 
exercise. 

Do not talk much when walking in the cold, frosty air, but keep the 
mouth closed, that the air may be warmed by the nostrils. 

Avoid very hot rooms with the moisture all dried out of the air. Change 
the air of your room every hour. An hour is long enough to remain in one 
position or in one room without change. 

Never sit, eat, or sleep in a north room if you can help it. The north 
side of the house belongs to the refrigerator and the storeroom. Let the 
sun shine into all your rooms as much as possible. You had better have 
faded carpets than faded faces. DR. MARY J. STUDLEY, in What Our Girls 
Ought to Know. 



BREATHING 177 

240. Ventilation of Schoolrooms. Special pains must be 
taken to ventilate schoolrooms. Pupils are sure to become 
listless, uneasy, dull, and sleepy when the air is not whole- 
some. Children may be comfortable in a well-aired room 
at 66 F., but it is very easy to let the temperature run up 
to 80, or even above, before it is noticed. 

Whatever apparatus for ventilation may be used, the 
doors and windows should be opened before and after 
each session and at recess. 




FIG. 112. 

Two petri dishes: one, A, exposed to the air before, and the other, B, 
exposed after, a class had occupied a recitation room. Plate A shows 
few bacteria, while plate B contains large numbers. 

The air of the schoolroom should be changed as often 
as once every hour. The pupils meanwhile should engage 
in active gymnastic exercises to prevent taking cold. When 
this is done in cold weather, the heat should be turned n 
and the fresh, cold air warmed as quickly as possible. 1 

1 School children sitting at their desks, clerks bending over their ledgers, 
seamstresses at work with the needle or the sewing machine, stenographers, 
typewriters, and all who must stoop as they earn their daily bread, should 
learn to stop from time to time, sit back in the chair or rise, throw back 



178 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

241. The Natural Heat of the Body. Everybody knows 
that the surface of the body feels warm. Hold the fingers 
in the mouth and we find it warm. Put a thermometer, 
made for the purpose, in the mouth and under the tongue 
for five minutes, and it will register about 98 F., even on 




FIG. 113. Photographs of Two Plates filled with Jelly upon which 
Molds will readily grow ; showing Abundance of Mold Spores 
in the Air. 

Plate A was opened to the air for one minute in an ordinary room, and then 
closed. The room was then swept and plate B exposed to the air for 
the same length of time. Both plates were then set aside until the 
spores germinated, when the photographs were made. Plate A shows 
only one mold, while plate B contains large numbers. Dusting a room, 
produces similar results. 

the coldest day of midwinter. This is the natural heat of 
a healthy person, and it rarely varies more than a degree 
or two, except in disease. 

the shoulders, and draw in ten or twelve deep, slow inspirations, holding the 
breath for three or four seconds each time the lungs are filled. 

These exercises, like breathing in general, should always be done with 
the mouth closed, for the nose is the only proper channel for the passage 
to and fro of the air. A school teacher who will interrupt the studies once 
every hour through the session, and teach the class to do this breathing 
exercise, will be contributing more than she can ever realize to the future 
well-being of her pupils. 






BREATHING 179 

242. How the Bodily Heat is produced. The heat of the 
body, is produced in just as simple a manner as that which 
comes from a common fire or a lighted candle. It is the 
natural result of the process of combustion. Our bodies 
are warm because we are burning away bit by bit, just as 
a candle does, that is to say, by the union of carbon, or 
charcoal, with oxygen. There is only this difference : we 
burn wet materials (the moist tissues), and do not give out 
flame or light. In place of coal or tallow we take in fuel 
in the shape of starch, sugar, and fat and get the oxygen 
from the air we breathe. 

A steam engine at work is warm because all the energy 
set free from the fuel burned is not turned into mechanical 
work, but some of it appears as heat. So it is in our bodies. 
Every tiny cell of every bit of tissue is busily at work, and 
its substance is slowly being burned at a low temperature. 
Every time we move, feel, or think, this oxidation, or burn- 
ing, goes on in all the tissues of the body. 

Some of the energy thus set free by this slow combus- 
tion shows itself as heat, which helps to keep the body 
warm and at its natural temperature. Thus, animal heat 
is produced and life maintained. 

Experiment 56. To show the natural temperature of the body. 
Borrow a physician's clinical thermometer and take your own tem- 
perature, and that of several friends, by placing the instrument under 
the tongue and holding it there for five minutes, keeping the mouth 
closed. Read it while in position, or the instant the instrument is 
removed. The natural temperature is about 98^ F. The ther- 
mometer should be thoroughly cleansed after each use. 

243. How the Body loses its Heat. Our bodies are 
warmer than the surrounding air, except in the hottest 
weather ; hence there must be a loss of heat nearly all 



ISO OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

the time. Therefore we must keep making heat to make 
up for this continual loss, known as "radiation." 

Besides this loss by radiation considerable heat is given 
off in the moisture which is got rid of by the skin in 
forming vapor, or sweat. The evaporation of this moisture 
from the skin acts as a kind of regulator to keep down the 
excess of heat. 

244. Effect of Alcohol upon the Lungs. We have learned 
in previous sections that the most marked and immediate 
effect of even a moderate amount of alcohol is upon the 
nerves. This effect is evident, as we have read, in the 
paralyzing action of alcohol upon the nerves which control 
the muscular walls of the arteries. These muscles are 
relaxed, and the blood vessels are dilated and filled with 
an unusual amount of blood (Sec. 215). 

This action of alcohol also shows itself in dilating the 
minute blood vessels, or capillaries, of the lungs. This 
distension of the capillaries, if long continued, tends to 
reduce the size of the air sacs and affords less space for 
the air which is needed by the pulmonary tissues. The 
result is that less oxygen is supplied to the blood. 

245. Relation of Alcohol to the Breathing Capacity of the 
Lungs. When the capillaries of the lungs have been dis- 
tended for a long time by the long-continued use of alco- 
holic liquors, the walls may become thickened and hardened. 
The result is that the breathing capacity of the lungs is 
diminished. This loss in breathing space tends to prevent 
the interchange of gases whereby the life-giving oxygen 
is taken into the blood and carbon dioxide is cast out of 
the body. 

The apparatus called the "spirometer," used by medical 
examiners of life-insurance companies to test the breathing 






BREATHING l8l 

capacity of the lungs, often detects the dram drinker by his 
failure to reach the natural breathing capacity. 

The repeated dilatation of the lung capillaries also tends 
to make the habitual user of alcohol less able to resist 
attacks of severe cold, pleurisy, and pneumonia, after mak- 
ing due allowance for the exposure to cold and damp, so 
common with the intemperate. 1 

246. Alcoholics and Pulmonary Consumption. A notion 
has prevailed that the use of alcoholic liquors may act as 
a preventive of pulmonary consumption. The records of 
medical science fail to show any proof whatever to support 
this idea. No error could be more serious or more mis- 
leading. Alcohol, if it does not predispose to pulmonary 
consumption, as many believe, certainly furnishes no pro- 
tection against it. 

247. Alcohol and Bodily Heat. Soon after taking even 
a small quantity of alcohol there is a general feeling of 
warmth over the surface of the body. The body is not 
really warmer, but the skin feels warmer. On the con- 
trary, we are really colder, because heat is more rapidly 
lost by radiation and evaporation from the surface. 

1 Most familiar and most dangerous is the drinking man's inability to 
resist lung diseases. ADOLPH FRICK, M.D. 

There is good reason to believe that the use of spirituous liquors among 
the working classes of the country is productive of consumption and tuber- 
culous diseases to an extent far beyond what is usually imagined. The 
blanched, cadaverous aspect of the spirit drinker bespeaks the condition 
of his internal organs. The tale of his moral and physical degradation is 
indelibly written on his countenance. The evil, however, does not rest here ; 
for by destroying his own health he entails on his unhappy offspring the 
predisposition to tuberculous diseases. SIR JAMES CLARK, M.D. 

Alcohol is a frequent cause of consumption by its power of weaken- 
ing the lungs. Every year we see patients who attend the hospital for 
alcoholism come back after a period to be treated for consumption. 
DR. LEGKNDRE, a famous Paris physician. 



182 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

The skin is warmer after taking alcoholic liquor, because 
the nerves that regulate the threadlike blood vessels on 
the surface, being partly paralyzed or deadened, dilate and 
allow more blood to flow through them. Hence more blood 
is sent from the central parts of the body to the surface. 
There is no real increase of heat : the surface is warmed 
for the time at the expense of the inner and deeper por- 
tions of the body. 

This surface warmth is rapidly lost by radiation, and the 
general heat of the body is lowered below its natural tem- 
perature. The bodily temperature is partly regulated by 
the surface circulation ; and when this control is lost, as it 
is by alcohol, the body is cooled by the undue amount of 
blood carried to the surface. 

The notion that a dose of some alcoholic liquor taken 
after exposure or bathing will prevent one from taking 
cold is erroneous. The alcohol, by irritating the delicate 
lung tissues and lining of the air passages, and reducing 
the temperature of the body, makes one more liable to 
colds, coughs, pneumonia, etc. When we feel chilly, the 
best thing to do is to get thoroughly warmed as quickly 
as possible, either by active exercise or by artificial heat. 

248. Alcohol and the Endurance of Extremes of Heat or 
Cold. Experience has proved, time and time again, that 
alcohol lessens the power to endure the extremes of heat 
or cold for any length of time. Arctic explorers strictly 
forbid the use of alcoholic liquor among their men because 
they know that exposure to severe cold can be endured 
far better without it. So well is this effect of alcohol 
known by the people of the coldest regions of Canada, that 
they will seldom take even a single glass of spirits when 
exposed to severe cold. 



BREATHING 183 

Army life is perhaps the best possible test. It is the 
almost universal experience of British army officers who 
have led their men through arduous campaigns in the 
hottest parts of Africa, and who have given much study 
to the question, that alcohol, so far from being an aid to 
endure severe exertion and to resist great extremes of heat, 
acts as a positive injury. 1 

General Kitchener prohibited all drinks containing alco- 
hol in the Sudan campaign. Respecting the result, a war 
correspondent said : " Of one thing I am sure, that the 
mortality from fever and other diseases during the Atbara 
campaign and the final Omdurman campaign would have 
been infinitely greater than it was if alcoholic liquors had 
been allowed as a beverage, or even as an occasional 
ration." 

Lord Roberts, the British commander in the Boer war, 
claims that the effective power of an army to endure extreme 
heat and cold is always in proportion to the number of 
total abstainers in the ranks. 

1 A party of engineers were surveying in the Sierra Nevadas. They 
camped at a great height above the sea level, where the air was very cold, 
and they were chilled and uncomfortable. Some of them drank a little 
whisky and felt less uncomfortable ; some of them drank a lot of whisky 
and went to bed feeling very jolly and comfortable indeed. But in the 
morning the men who had not taken any whisky got up in good condition ; 
those who had taken a little whisky got up feeling very miserable; the 
men who had taken a lot of whisky did not get up at all: they were simply 
frozen to death. They had warmed the surface of their bodies at the 
expense of their internal organs. T. LEANDER BRUNTON, M.D. (St. Bar- 
tholomew Hospital, London), in Lectures on the Action of Me dicing. 



184 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT 

I. What may be said in a general way of the act of breathing? 
2. What have we learned in previous chapters about food and the 
blood? 3. What have we learned previously about the circulation 
of blood in the lungs ? 4. State in a general way the twofold object 
of breathing. 5. Through what passages is air drawn into the lungs? 
6. What are the nostrils? 7. Describe the windpipe. 8. What is 
the epiglottis? 9. Describe the larynx. 10. Into what two branches 
is the windpipe divided after entering the chest cavity ? 

II. Describe the bronchial tubes. 12. What are the lungs? 

13. What is meant by the lobes and the lobules of the lungs? 

14. What is the pleura? 15. How may the respiratory sounds be 
plainly heard? 16. What useful purpose do the cilia serve? 

17. How may we note the general movements of breathing in our 
own persons ? 18. Give brief definitions of inspiration, expiration, 
and respiration. 19. Explain in some detail the mechanical move- 
ments in the act of breathing. 20. What part do the intercostal 
muscles play in the process of breathing? 

21. Of what is the air we breathe composed? 22. How is the air 
changed in breathing? 23. Mention some other changes in the air 
that take place during breathing. 24. What is meant by the dif- 
fusion of gases ? 25. What exchange of gases takes place between 
the blood and the air in breathing? 26. What does the blood gain 
and lose in the process of breathing ? 27. What do the air sacs gain 
and lose in breathing? 28. Describe the process of respiration in 
all of the tissues. 29. Mention some things that may make the air 
impure. 30. How may the germs of disease be carried in the air ? 

31. Explain how the sputa of persons suffering from pulmonary con- 
sumption may become a source of contagion. 32. Give some practical 
hints about ventilation. 33. Why and how should schoolrooms be 
ventilated ? 34. How can we ascertain the temperature of the body ? 

35. Explain in a general way how the bodily heat is produced. 

36. How does the body lose its heat ? 37. What is the general effect 
of alcohol upon the lungs ? 38. What effect does alcohol have upon 
the breathing capacity of the lungs ? 39. How does alcohol modify 
the bodily heat? 40. Explain how alcohol lessens the power to 
endure the extremes of heat and cold. 






CHAPTER IX 
THE SKIN AND THE KIDNEYS 

249. How our Bodies are covered. The skin is the out- 
side covering of the body. We all know how painful and 
tender any part of the body is when this covering has been 
torn, cut, blistered, burned, or otherwise hurt. 

Kind nature has given us a firm, elastic, and tight-fitting 
outside garment. It is easily kept clean, and never wears 
out. It is soft and thin enough to enable us to feel objects 
easily, yet thick and strong enough to allow us to do this 
without pain. 

250. The Skin and its Two Layers. The skin consists of 
two layers. The outer one has neither blood vessels nor 
nerves, and is called the cuticle, scarfskin, or epidermis. 

The deeper layer, called the true skin, or dermis, is so 
highly sensitive that, were it not for the outer layer, we 
could not endure life. Most of us are familiar with the 
delicate pink skin which is exposed when the outer skin 
is removed by a blister, or rubbed off by some slight 
accident. The surface feels raw, and from it oozes a little 
clear fluid called " lymph," or perhaps a little blood. Beneath 
the true skin there is a layer of fat which gives roundness 
and softness to the figure. 

251. The Scarfskin. The deeper portion of the scarf- 
skin is constantly producing millions of little cells to take 
the place of the flat, horny, and lifeless scales of the outer 

185 



186 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

portion, which are continually dropping off or being 
removed by friction. 

When these flattened scales are pressed together, they 
become flatter and flatter ; and thus the hard, horny skin 
is made, which is seen in places where the wear and tear is 
considerable, as in the palms of the hands and the soles 
of the feet. The callous places on the hands of the black- 
smith, the carpenter, or the washerwoman are familiar. 

252. What gives the Skin its Color. In the deeper parts 
of the scarfskin are tiny specks of coloring matter, hid in 
little cells. These give the skin its color. In the fairer 

races, these specks are of 
a pinkish color ; in the dark 
races, the pigment cells 
are brown or nearly black, 
and more closely crowded 
together. 

FIG. 114. A Layer of the Outer Skin The rays of the SUn 
from the Palm of the Hand. serve tQ ^^ thege 




specks, as is seen in the 

parts of the body exposed to direct sunlight. We often 
see on the persons of laboring and athletic people a sharp 
line drawn between parts of the arm or neck exposed to 
the sun's rays, and other parts generally covered with 
clothing. Some persons, however, tan much more readily 
than others. When the pigment changes in spots, we 
call them freckles. 

Experiment 57. Take a very fine and perfectly clean needle 
and run the point carefully beneath the thin outer layer of the skin 
at the junction of the fingers with the palm of the hand. Note 
that the point of the needle is not felt and that there is no flow 
of blood. 



THE SKIN AND THE KIDNEYS 



I8 7 



253. The True Skin. The true skin, or dermis, is a firm, 
elastic structure resting on meshes of a tissue something 
like damp, raw cotton, which loosely fasten the skin to the 
parts beneath. It is the true skin which, in the lower ani- 
mals, is made into leather by the process of 
tanning. In this layer also are the nerves, 
blood vessels, and absorbents of the skin. 

When the true skin is destroyed, a scar 
results. White scars, especially on the 
hands, due to deep cuts, and scars from 
smallpox, deep burns, and other injuries 
to this layer of the skin, are often seen. 

The true skin is richly supplied with 
nerves and blood vessels so closely netted FIG. 115. Epidermis 
together that it is next to impossible to from the Bottom of 
prick the skin anywhere with the point the Foot 
of a needle without drawing blood and feeling pain. 




Experiment 58. Stretch the thumb and forefinger of the left hand 
wide apart. Gently prick the skin with the point of a fine, clean 
needle. Note how sensitive the true skin is, and how readily a drop 
of blood may flow. 

Experiment 59. Press the thumb of the right hand tightly into 
the left palm. Remove the thumb quickly. Note the difference in 
color of the spot pressed and that of the skin near by. 

254. The Skin and the Sense of Touch. The outer sur- 
face of the true skin rises up into the epidermis so as to 
form little hillocks, or papillae, into which run the capillaries 
and the nerves. 

In the papillae are little round or oval bodies, called 
touch corpuscles (Sec. 340). 

These papillae are very numerous everywhere, but are 
thickest where the sense of touch is most acute, as on 



188 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

the tips of the fingers. They are arranged in rows, like 
hills of corn, and sometimes in whorl-like patterns, which 
are plainly seen with a magnifying glass on the palms of 
the hands or the balls of the fingers. 

Experiment 60. Dip the end of a wooden toothpick into some 
thick ink and spread it very thin over the end of the forefinger, or 
press the end of the finger on a color pad. Now press the finger tip on 

a piece of heavy, uncoated paper. 
Study the impression made by 
the ridges on the finger. 

Experiment 61, The living skin 
can be examined only in a gen- 
eral way. Stretch and pull it, and 
notice that it is elastic. Examine 
the outer skin carefully with a 
strong magnifying glass. Study 
the papillae on the palms. Scrape 
off with a blunt knife a few bits of 
FIG. 116. Papillae of the Skin in the scarfskin, and examine them 

the Palm of the Hand. with a ma g n if y i n g glass. 

In each papilla are seen vascular loops 

(dark lines) running up from the vas- -- ^r 4.1. 01 

cular network below; the tactile cor- 255 H W the Skm ma 7 
puscles (white lines) which supply the abSOfb PoiSOn. The OUter 
papill* are also shown. 




skin from poisons. Lead, mercury, and other injurious 
substances will not enter the blood and affect the health, 
unless they are actually rubbed through the dermis ; but if 
there is a scratch or sore, so that the true skin is exposed, 
the poisons may be absorbed into the blood with great 
rapidity. 

Workers in lead, looking-glass silverers, and phosphorus 
match makers ought, therefore, to take great care to cover 
the smallest scratches on their hands. " Lead colic " and 
"wrist drop" are familiar instances of lead poisoning. 



THE SKIN AND THE KIDNEYS 



189 




FIG. 117. The First Vaccination. 

This picture is based upon a photograph of a painting exhibited many 
years ago in the Paris Salon. It represents the crowning experiment of 
Dr. Edward Jenner, a famous English physician and the discoverer of vac- 
cination. The experiment was performed on a boy whom Jenner inocu- 
lated with matter taken from the hand of a milkmaid who had been directly 
infected by the cow. This was on the i4th of May, 1796, more than a 
century ago. 

The picture is used by the kind permission of William Wood & Co., publishers. 



190 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

Cheap underclothes, as colored stockings, are often dyed 
with preparations of lead. Such articles should be thor- 
oughly washed before they are worn. Many hair dyes 
contain lead, and may cause lead poisoning. 

256. Absorption of Infectious Matter by the Skin. The fact 
that certain infectious matters are easily and rapidly absorbed 
by the skin has long been utilized by people who have learned 
to safeguard themselves against the ravages of smallpox. A 
bit of the outer skin is scraped away with a pocketknife or 
some other convenient instrument. On the moist, denuded 
skin is placed the vaccine matter from a quill, or even matter 
obtained from a smallpox pustule. 

Many years ago, when smallpox was very common and 
fatal in England, the attention of a young medical student, 
named Jenner, was forcibly attracted to the nature of the dread 
disease in the following manner. One day a young milkmaid 
came to seek his advice. Speaking of smallpox, the girl said, 
" I cannot take that disease, for I have had cowpox." Jenner 
began a long series of experiments and observations to explain 
this remarkable fact. The actual discovery of vaccination was 
delayed for many years (Fig. 117 and Sec. 427). 

257. Structure of the Hair. A hair is made up of horny 
cells of the outer layer of the skin altered in shape and 
structure. It grows from little sacs in the true skin called 
hair follicles. 

Every hair has two parts, the root and the free end. 
The root is somewhat pear-shaped and is sunk in its sac, 
or follicle, like a post into the ground. In the bottom of 
this sac is a little hair papilla, quite different from the papillae 
of the skin. From this comes material for the growth of 
the hair. As long as this papilla is not destroyed, the hair 
will grow. If we pull out the hair from the roots, it will 






THE SKIN AND THE KIDNEYS 



191 



grow again. If we destroy this papilla, the hair never 
grows again. 1 

The hair follicles are well supplied with nerves, hence it 
hurts to have the hair pulled. 

258. How the Hairs grow. Hairs grow from cells 
pressed together lengthwise, so that they are drawn out 
into fibers instead of being flattened into scales. Hence 
they grow only in length. On the outer surface the cells 
form a sort of bark, 
overlapping each 
other something like 
the shingles on a roof. 

The coloring mat- 
ter is contained in 
the cells. It is this 
pigment which gives 
the great variety in 
color. The hair usu- 
ally becomes gray or 




FIG. 118. BLACKBOARD SKETCH. 

Surface of Palm of the Hand, showing Open- 
ings of Sweat Glands and Grooves between 
Papillae of the Skin. 

Magnified 4 diameters. 



tne smaller figure the same epidermal surface is 
. . . , shown as seen with the naked eye. 

white as old age 

comes on. The pigment is absent and the cells are filled 

with air bubbles. 

259. Muscles that control the Hairs. The hairs, or 
rather the parts of the skin close to them, are provided 
with tiny muscles. They run from the bottom of each 
hair follicle in a slanting direction, and end in the outer 
part of the true skin. When they contract they cause the 

1 It is useless, or worse than useless, to try to rid one's self of unsightly 
hairs or hair moles on the face. If we pull them out with tweezers, or cut 
or shave them off, they are sure to grow again, coarser and more unsightly 
than before. Remedies advertised to remove superfluous hairs are usually 
worthless or dangerous. The hair papillae must be destroyed to stop the 
growth of hair, and this is no simple matter. 



192 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



hair to stand more 
up a little. Thus, 

A 
B 




FIG. 119. 

BLACKBOARD SKETCH. 

Cross-Section of Skin. 

Magnified 30 diameters. 

A, outer layer of cuticle; 

B, deeper" layer of cuticle ; 

C, duct of sweat gland; 

D, true skin ; E, sublayer 
of true skin, with colum- 
nar cells. The blood ves- 
sels are injected to show 
black. 



or less erect, and the skin to bunch 

at the sight of a dog, the hairs on a 

cat's back become erect and bristling. 

Any one who has been frightened 
suddenly, or has taken a chilly bath, 
knows what it is to have "goose flesh." 
These muscles also act to force oil 
out of the oil glands (Fig. 125). 

The hair serves to protect the parts 
it covers from heat and cold. On the 
head, the hair helps to protect the 
skull from injuries and the brain from 
extremes of heat and cold. 

260. The Nails. The nails are 
horny cells of the epidermis in a hard- 
ened and thickened form. They grow 
from roots which are lodged in a 
groove of the skin, somewhat as a 
watch crystal is fitted into its case. 
The part which is beneath the skin 
is called the root, and the remaining 
part the body. (Figs. 122-124). 

The nail rests upon a bed, called 
the nail bed or matrix, to which it is 
firmly fastened. Nails grow from the 
root, and as long as this is not injured 
they are not lost or disfigured by 
splinters, blows, and bruises. 

Disease or injury of the root gen- 
erally results in a badly shaped nail. 
The nails serve by their horny tex- 
ture to protect the outer portions of 



THE SKIN AND THE KIDNEYS 



193 



the ends of the fingers and toes from injury, and to give 
a support for the fleshy ends. 

261. The Care of the Finger Nails. The finger nails grow 
out about three times a year. They should be trimmed 
once a week, leaving them long enough to protect the 
ends of the fingers. Nails should 
never be trimmed to the quick. 
They should not be cleaned with 
anything harder than a brush or 
a bit of soft wood. They should 
not be scraped with a penknife or 
anything metallic, as it destroys 
the delicacy of their structure, 
and gives them an unnatural 
thickness. 

" Hangnails " are caused by the 
skin fastening itself to the nail, 
which, growing outward, drags the 
skin along with it, stretching it 
until one end gives way. To pre- 
vent this, the skin should be loos- 
ened from the nail once a week, 

not with a knife or scissors, but FIG. 120. Cross-Section of One 
with something blunt, such as an 
" orange stick," made for this pur- 
pose, the small end of a nailbrush, or an ivory paper cutter. 1 

1 An ingrowing toe nail often causes much pain and inconvenience. It is 
found most commonly on the side of the great toe, although it mav occur 
on any one of the smaller toes. Ill-fitting boots and shoes in which the 
toes are cramped together usually cause the trouble. 

The toe nails should always be cut off square, at a right angle to the 
axis of the toe, and should never be pared close and rounded off at the 
sides parallel with the extremity of the toe. If they are rounded there is 




Half of a Human Hair. 
Magnified about 300 diameters 



I 9 4 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



262. The Oil Glands. 

clustered together like 




FIG. 121. Section of Lower 
Portion of a Hair and Hair 
Follicle. 

Highly magnified. 

A, membrane of hair follicle, 
showing cells with nuclei and 
pigmentary granules ; 2?, exter- 
nal lining of root sheath; C, 
internal lining of root sheath ; 
Z>, cortical or fibrous portion 
of hair shaft ; E, medullary por- 
tion (pith) of shaft; F, hair 
bulb, showing its development 
from cells. 



The oil glands are little round sacs 

a bunch of grapes, with a tube 

which opens into the hair follicles. 

Generally there are two to each 
hair, but in some places there are 
from four to eight around a hair, 
making a kind of collar about it. 
These glands furnish a natural 
dressing for the hair and keep it 
moist and glossy. They also keep 
the surface of the skin soft and 
flexible. 

In some places the oil glands, 
as upon the nose, chin, and fore- 
head, are large, and the hairs very 
small ; hence it often occurs that 
they open directly upon the skin. 
In these openings the oil is likely 
to collect and become hard. 

Bits of dust get into these 
glands, acting like plugs, and 
show themselves as small black 
specks, incorrectly called "flesh 
worms," because of the resem- 
blance which these little masses 



nothing left to support the side of the toe, and the pressure of the shoe 
then causes the fleshy parts to ride up over the side of the nail, and as the 
latter grows it has to cut its way into soft parts, for it has nowhere else to go. 
The wound so caused cannot heal, for the sharp side of the nail is always 
cutting farther into it and producing irritation. Soon it becomes inflamed ; 
then matter forms, " proud flesh " grows up over the side, and a most pain- 
ful and crippling condition may result. Home treatment often makes bad 
matters worse. A chiropodist's services are often needed. 



THE SKIN AND THE KIDNEYS 



195 





have to a worm. This oily secretion, which might well be 

called nature's hair oil, is perfectly fluid in a healthy skin, 

and at the temperature of the body. 
263. The Sweat Glands. The sweat 

glands consist of very fine tubes, about 

one quarter of an inch long, coiled into 
knots. From 
each knot a 
canal, called a 
sweat duct, rises 
up through the 
dermis and, 
piercing the epi- 
dermis in cork- 
screw fashion, 

opens on the surface of the skin. 
The openings, or small pits, of these 



FIG. 122. Concave or 
Adherent Surface of 
Nail. 

A, border of the root ; B, 
whitish portion of semi- 
lunar shape ; C, body of 
nail. The continuous 
line around border rep- 
resents the free edge. 



FIG. 123. Nail in 
Position. 



A, section of cutaneous fold 

turned back to show sweat glands are set in rows, as may 

root of nail; B, cutane- be seen b y a common magnifying 

glass, espe- 

cially on 

the palms 

of the hands between the ridges 
of the skin. On the sole of the 
foot and the palm of the hand FIG. 124. Longitudinal Section 



ous fold covering root 
of nail; C, semi lunar 
whitish portion ; D, body 
of nail. 




they are very numerous, there 



of a Finger Nail. 



. , , , c A, last bone of finger ; B. true skin 

being some three thousand of on the dorsal surface of finger . 



them to the square inch ; while 

on the cheeks there are only 

about five hundred and fifty in 

the same space, and about twelve hundred to the square 

inch on the forehead. At a rough estimate, there are more 



C, outer skin ; Z), true skin ; JS, 
bed of nail; F, superficial layer 
of nail ; H, true skin of pulp of 
finger. 



196 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

than two million sweat glands in the whole body. If they 
were laid end to end, they would stretch to a distance of 
nearly ten miles. 

Experiment 62. Study the openings of 
the sweat glands with the aid of a strong 
magnifying glass. They are conveniently 
examined on the palms. 

264. The Sweat, or Perspiration. 
The sweat, or perspiration, is a colorless, 
salty fluid, with a peculiar odor. It 
is a part of the waste matter of the 
tissues which has been filtered from 
the blood and is got rid of through 
these busy little glands in the skin. 

These glands are always at work 
pouring out sweat. This may not be 
evident to the eye or to the touch, 

because it evaporates into the air as 
FIG. 125. BLACKBOARD . . 

SKETCH. fast as it is formed. In hot weather, 

Hair and Hair Follicle, or during exercise, the sweat is poured 

A, root of hair; B, bulb out faster than it can evaporate. It 

of hair; c, internal root often co n ec ts in drops and runs down 

shield; z->, external root 

shield ; E, external mem- Our f aCCS. 

S? ^s'aua^H; The average daily quantity of per- 
follicle; ff, compound oil spiration is not far from two pints, 




opening of hair follicle, in hot weather. It varies greatly, 
according to what we are doing, the 

condition of health, how we are clothed, and the tempera- 
ture of the surrounding atmosphere. 1 

1 Horses sweat all over the body, and so do human beings, but monkeys, 
it is said, sweat only on the hands, feet, and face. In animals that perspire 



THE SKIN AND THE KIDNEYS 



197 



Experiment 63. Press the palm of the hand gently on a hand glass 
or mirror. If convenient, have the surface of the glass cold. Repeat 
the process with the back of the hand. Note any difference in the 
relative amounts of perspiration. Try 
these experiments on a very hot and a 
very cold day, and note the difference 
in the activity of the skin. 

265. Why we sweat. The most 
important function of the sweat 
is to regulate the temperature of 
the body by evaporation from its 
surface. We fan ourselves on a 
hot day to hasten this evaporation 
of the moisture on the skin. In 
hot weather, and after taking a hot 
drink or a hot-air bath, the skin 
does its best to reduce the tem- 
perature, and thus works all the 
harder in pouring out the sweat 
more profusely. When one is per- 
spiring freely, it is highly impru- 
dent to sit in a cool draught ; for 
this evaporation may be suddenly 
checked, and we are then apt to 
take cold. 1 

but little, the cooling of the body is effected 

chiefly by evaporation from the tongue, as Showing three outer layers of the 

we see in the case of a panting dog. 

Profuse sweating is very common in 
cases of debility and in excessively stout 
persons. It occurs also in connection with 
various diseases. Sudden emotion may 
cause increased perspiration. 

1 Some people are afflicted with a natu- 
rally strong and disagreeable odor of the 




FIG. 126. BLACKBOARD 
SKETCH. 

Vertical Section of the Human 
Skin. 

Magnified 30 diameters. 



cuticle, two in black and a 
middle light layer. Below the 
inner dark layer, the active 
layer (rete mucosuni) is well 
shown. All below is the true 
skin. The tortuous course of 
a sweat gland is well marked. 
The two round black spots are 
fat cells. 



198 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



266. Why we should take care of the Skin. Many 
thousands of sweat glands in the skin, acting like drainage 
tubes, together with the countless oil glands, pour out daily 
about two pounds of sweat, oil, and 
other used-up matters through the 
hard-worked skin. 

The perspiration evaporates and 
leaves the solid and oily matters 
to plug the mouths of these tiny 
sewer pipes. 

The dead scales of the scarfskin 
are continually dropping off. They 
become sticky with the oil, and, 
getting entangled in the meshes 
of the clothing, become glued in a 
kind of thin crust to the surface 
of the body. This, if not regularly 
washed off, attracts dirt and dust. 

The glands of the skin thus get 
choked up and are not able to do 
their work properly. Other organs, 

Vertical Section of Skin SUch as the lun S and the kidneys, 

showing Sweat Gland with now have to do their own work and 
its Duct - help do that of the skin besides. 

The Warn* of health is disturbed 




FIG. 127. 
BLACKBOARD SKETCH. 



may be traced through the 

true skin to its outlet in the perspiration. In some cases this is caused 

horny layers of the outer skin, by ill health, but in many, perhaps most, 
cases, it is natural to the sufferer, and can 

only be overcome in a measure by extreme care of the person and attention 
to the bath. Sponging the body with water containing a few drops of 
ammonia may afford some relief. 

Frequent change of clothing will be necessary, and dress shields should 
be worn by all who have this unpleasant infirmity, and the same suit or 
dress should never be worn on two consecutive days. 



THE SKIN AND THE KIDNEYS 199 

because the blood is not properly purified, and disorders 
of various kinds are almost sure to result. 

267. Baths and how to take them. The first object in 
using soap and water on the skin is to keep it clean ; the 
second, to give vigor and strength to the whole body. 

It takes very little time, expense, or trouble to take a 
daily bath of some sort. A hand basin, a sponge, a strip 
of cotton flannel, a piece of Castile soap, a gallon of water, 
and a towel are all that are required. Even rubbing the 
body every day, first with a damp towel and afterwards 
very briskly with a dry one, will, in most cases, keep the 
skin clean enough during the week, provided a bath with 
warm water and soap is taken at the end of the week. 

Coarse and rough towels should always be used if the 
skin will bear it. Some skins are very active and get rid 
of a large amount of waste matter. In such cases, a daily 
bath, especially in hot weather, is almost a necessity. 

Hot baths, with hot drinks, causing free sweating, helped 
on by wrapping the person snug in bed, with a jug of hot 
water or a hot flatiron at the side or feet, will often save 
children and others from illness, if these measures are 
promptly and vigorously taken after unusual exposure to 
cold or wet. 

268. Bathing in Cold Water. Most persons, especially 
the young and vigorous, soon get used to cool, and even 
cold, baths. If, however, we shiver after a bath instead 
)f feeling a warm, comfortable glow, warmer water should 

used. 

The first effect of any cold bath is to cause contraction of 
e vessels of the skin, and make the surface pallid. Brisk 
ibbing should soon bring on a reaction, as it is called, in 
rhich the skin becomes red and full of blood. Always 



200 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

stop bathing if shivering comes on, and use the towel 
vigorously until a feeling of genial warmth is felt all over 
the person. 

Young children and old people, unless strong, vigorous, 
and well used to it, cannot take a cold bath without some 
risk. Like all other things, bathing may be weakening if 
carried to excess. Very much depends upon a person's 
occupation and the condition of the skin. 1 

269. The Care of the Hair. It adds to our health and 
comfort to keep the hair clean. The oil glands become 
clogged, and dust and dirt, rapidly making a coating on the 
scalp, get entangled in the hair. Hence the hair should 
be washed, combed, and brushed, often and well. An 
occasional shampoo at home, with a wash made of the 
white of an egg and soapsuds, is healthful. Even a little 
borax dissolved in plain water, with vigorous rubbing, will 
do much to keep the scalp clean and healthy. 

270. Dangers from Change of Clothing. Clothes serve 
to keep up an even temperature about the surface of the 

1 Certain precautions are advisable for all who bathe in the sea. In the 
first place, bathing should never be indulged in when one is overheated, nor 
within two hours after a hearty meal. On the other hand, bathing on a 
perfectly empty stomach, as before breakfast, is not advisable ; it is a good 
plan for early morning bathers to take a light lunch before starting for 
the beach. 

The time of staying in the water must depend upon the individual ; 
some people can stay in fifteen or twenty minutes without ill effect, but 
for most people a five-minute plunge is long enough. 

One of the most serious results from sea bathing is inflammation of 
the ears. No one who has a discharge from the ears should ever bathe 
in the sea, especially in the surf, and all would do well to stop the ears 
with a little plug of absorbent cotton before going into the water. 

Many people who cannot bathe in the sea are greatly benefited by the 
sea air and by taking sponge baths, or even tub baths, in salt water in their 
own rooms every morning. These baths should be followed by brisk 
rubbing with a rough towel. 



THE SKIN AND THE KIDNEYS 2OI 

body. In winter, they keep in the bodily heat and protect 
us from cold. In summer, they shield us from the direct 
rays of the sun. 

Clothes should be changed according to the climate or 
time of year. It is not prudent to leave off winter clothing 
too early in the spring, for our seasons are most uncertain. 
Loosely woven, porous material should be worn next to the 
skin, whether in summer or winter. 

We should never allow ourselves to feel cold. If we 
cannot go where it is warm, or put on warm clothing, we 
should exercise until we feel warm. 

271. Hints on the Use of Clothing. To keep our persons 
sweet and clean, we must change our clothes often. This 
not only applies to garments used for daily wear, but to 
bedclothes and night clothes. No one should sleep in the 
clothes he wears during the day. Under-garments should 
be frequently and regularly changed. All bedclothes should 
be exposed freely to the light and the air. 

Young children are less able to resist cold and sudden 
changes than grown-up people, hence great care must be 
taken with their clothing. The legs and chests of children 
should not be unduly exposed to the bitter blasts of winter 
nor the cold east winds of spring. Many children die every 
year from lung diseases due to ignorance or neglect in this 
matter. 

272. Plain Advice on the Use of Clothing. Never wear 
wet or damp clothes longer than is necessary. If you have 
on wet clothes, take the shortest way home, rub down thor- 
oughly, and put on dry, warm garments. 

Do not let your damp skirts, underclothing, wet stock- 
ings or shoes dry on you, but always change them at once 
if possible. Neglect of this precaution is a fruitful cause 



202 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

of rheumatism, neuralgia, and chest ailments, especially 
among young people who are careless, ignorant, or indif- 
ferent in matters of health. 

Do not wear the clothing too tight, and thus allow it 
to interfere with free movements and easy, graceful car- 
riage, to say nothing of health. The improper use of 
corsets often crowds important organs out of place and 
retards their growth. Garters worn below the knee are 
apt to hinder the circulation, and cause cold feet and 
sometimes enlarged veins. 1 

273. Additional Hints on the Use of Clothing. Dresses 
and skirts should never drag their full weight from the 
hips, but should be partly supported from the shoulders. 
Health and comfort should not be sacrificed to a desire to 
dress in a slavish submission to fashion. 

Children, and older people too, should never run out- 
doors without proper covering for the head. Pupils should 
not be allowed to sit in the schoolroom with outside gar- 
ments on, such as scarfs, coats, rubbers, and leggings. 

1 Many people, otherwise neat in matters concerning their personal health, 
will come in from a long, hot, and dusty journey, remove a warm, perspira- 
tion-soaked dress or coat, and hang it at once in a close, dark closet, or 
place in the same receptacle a skirt that has been for hours gathering up 
the filthy sweepings of streets and cars. It is no wonder that the average 
wardrobe should give out a most disagreeable odor when the door has 
been closed for a short time. 

All outer clothing, especially if of woolen material, should be hung up 
in a current of fresh air to dry and cool before being put away. Dress 
shields, the linings of women's collars, and the bindings of skirts should be 
often renewed. 

The habit of giving a hasty brush to the bottom of a skirt in the house 
too often in the bedroom is uncleanly and maybe dangerous. Skirts, 
even when they are not allowed to sweep the pavements, cannot fail to be 
laden with dust mixed with bacteria which may cause disease. The same 
thing is true, to a less degree, of other garments. 



THE SKIN AND THE KIDNEYS 203 

THE KIDNEYS 

274. Getting rid of Waste Matters. Our bodies are 
never the same for a single moment. With every breath 
and with every beat of the heart they are ever changing. 
Wear and waste vie with growth and repair. 

We eat food to supply the bodily engine with fuel, and 
breathe in oxygen to feed the furnace fire. With a steady 
burning, but without light, this engine produces not only 
motion and heat, but uses a part of its own energy to make 
its own repairs. Not this alone, but it even gets rid of 
its own soot and ashes, which would otherwise clog the 
machinery, and finally stop it. 

We have already learned that the ceaseless blood current 
which carries fresh fuel to the tissues, in the shape of the 
nutrient part of food, is also a kind of sewer stream that 
rids them of waste matters. 

In other words, the blood is ever being made rich by 
some things, and is ever getting rid of other things. The 
blood carries fuel to the tissues of the body. In the tis- 
sues a slow burning, or oxidation, takes place : the waste 
or ashes must be got rid of. 

275. Principal Waste Matters of the Body. What are 
these waste matters ? If we take a piece of beef, dry it, 
and burn it, we shall find that it is changed into four things, 

water, carbon dioxide, ammonia, and ashes. Now, this 
slow burning of our tissues is really the same thing. 

Hence, in whatever way our bodies are burned, or oxi- 
dized, whether consumed in a furnace or buried in the 
ground, or oxidized while they are living, the end is 
always the same : water, carbon dioxide, a kind of ammonia 
called urea, and a small quantity of salts, or ashes. 



204 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

276. The Waste Matters described. Besides the water 
which comes from the food we eat, we drink a great deal 
of it as plain water. We need to keep the tissues continu- 
ally moist to help to dissolve the food, and also to flush 
them and cleanse them of their useless matters and impu- 
rities. As we wash the surface of the body to keep it 
clean, so nature is ever bathing our tissues to wash away 
their impurities. 

The red blood corpuscles, as we know, are the tiny boats 
which carry the oxygen breathed in by the lungs along the 
blood stream to every tissue. The tissues contain carbon, 
which in some mysterious way unites with the oxygen, 
forming carbon dioxide. 

The tissues, especially the muscles, yield nitrogen. A 
compound of nitrogen, called urea, is filtered out of the 
body, through the kidneys. It is a peculiar substance, 
something like ammonia only more complex. 

277. The Chief Organs of Excretion. The process by 
which the body gets rid of its waste material is called 
excretion, meaning separation from, or sifting out. 

The chief organs of excretion, or the three main channels 
by which the waste products leave the body, are the skin, 
the lungs, and the kidneys. 

The functions of these three organs are closely allied. 
They differ very much in appearance, but are built on the 
same general principle. The blood, as it passes through 
the numberless capillaries in these organs, is purified by a 
sifting process. The waste matters are, as it were, sifted 
from the blood, and finally removed from the body. 

The structure of the skin has already been described. 
One function of the skin, as we have seen, is to rid the 
body of water and other matters in the form of sweat. 



THE SKIN AND THE KIDNEYS 



205 




FIG. 128. Vertical Section of the Back. (Posterior view.) 

The spinal column below the twelfth dorsal vertebra at A has been removed, as 
well as the various layers of the great muscles of the back. The two kid- 
neys with the renal arteries and veins are plainly shown, in their normal 
positions. The relative positions of adjacent vessels and organs with their 
names printed upon them are also shown. B, portion of the diaphragm on 
the left side; C, receptaculum chyli; Z>, a part of the small intestine on 
the left side. 



206 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

The lungs have also been described in a previous chapter. 
One duty of the lungs, as we have learned, is to excrete carbon 
dioxide, watery vapor, and a small quantity of other wastes. 

278. The Kidneys. The kidneys, two important organs 
of excretion, are of a brownish-red color, about four inches 
long and two inches wide, and of the shape of a kidney 
bean. They lie in the region of the loins, in front of the 
backbone, behind the intestines, one on each side, and are 
imbedded in fat. A sheep's kidney is a familiar sight in a 
market. It is very much like the same organ in man. 

279. The Structure of the Kidneys. The kidneys are 
made up of bundles of long tubes, not so very unlike sweat 
glands. These tubes are surrounded by a meshwork of 
capillaries. They are very fine, threadlike structures, not 
more than a five-hundredth of an inch in diameter. Thus, 
there are thousands upon thousands of them packed together 
in each kidney. 

The blood filters certain waste matters dissolved in 
water into these tubes, just as it gives up sweat to the 
sweat glands. These tubes unite into one common duct 
from each kidney, which carries away the excretion. In 
due time this waste material is cast out of the body. 

The kidneys thus serve as a peculiar and delicate kind 
of filter, carrying off urea, inorganic salts, and other waste 
matters dissolved in a large quantity of water. 1 

280. The Work done by the Kidneys. About three pints 
of fluid are daily discharged, on an average, through the 

1 The whole of this excretion is called the urine. It is in reality water, 
holding in solution urea and several salts. The urine is constantly being 
secreted by the kidneys. It is carried to the bladder, which serves as a 
reservoir. It collects in the bladder until this receptacle is nearly full, 
when it is emptied by the contraction of its walls, aided by the abdominal 
muscles. 



THE SKIN AND THE KIDNEYS 



207 



kidneys, and a little over one ounce of urea. Out of the body, 
the urea soon changes into carbon dioxide and ammonia. 

Besides urea, the kidneys also serve to carry off each 
day almost an ounce of various mineral substances that are 
either foreign to the body or 
are present in the blood in too 
large a proportion, for ex- 
ample, common salt. 

If the kidneys are inactive 
or fail to excrete the nitroge- 
nous waste matters, the work 
of many other organs is seri- 
ously impaired. The blood 
is poisoned, and death may 
result from the poisonous 
material which is retained in 
the tissues. 

281. The Health of the Kid- 
neys. The kidneys are very 
busy organs. Their health is 
a matter of prime importance. 

We have already become 
familiar with the hygiene of 
two great organs of excretion, 
the skin and the lungs. 

These three sets of organs, 
working together in harmony, 

like three groups of mechanics doing some difficult work, 
keep the bodily machinery from getting clogged and choked 
with waste matters. 

If the free action of the skin or the lungs is interrupted, 
the kidneys have extra work to do. They make every effort 




FIG. 129. Vertical Section of the 
Kidney. 

A, pyramids of the kidney ; B, apices, 
" or papillae, of the pyramids ; C, pel- 
vis of the kidney ; D, upper end of 
ureter. 



208 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

to do the additional work that is thrown upon them ; but, 
sooner or later, they fail under the burden, and become 
diseased. 

282. Effect of Alcohol upon the Skin. As we have 
already learned in previous sections, the paralyzing action 
of alcohol results in a dilatation of the arteries and the capil- 
laries. Now, it is evident that the skin, like any other active 
organ, depends for its nourishment upon the proper circu- 
lation of the blood. Hence, if this circulation is interfered 
with, the skin lacks its chief element of vitality. 

The flushed and warm face, so often noticed after taking 
a very moderate amount of alcoholic liquor, is due to the 
temporary dilatation of the capillaries in the skin. If the 
use of alcoholic beverages is continued for a long period, 
this dilatation of the blood vessels becomes permanent. The 
tiny capillaries about the face are often seen running their 
crooked course just under the skin of the nose and the 
cheeks. 

The skin, as we know, is the chief regulator of the loss 
of heat from the body. When we drink alcoholic liquors, 
more blood is carried to the surface and more heat passes 
by radiation from the skin into the cold air. Thus, heat 
which is needed elsewhere, especially in cold weather, is 
lost. In other words, the surface of the body is warmed 
at the expense of its vital organs within. 

The skin also plays an important part in the excretion 
of waste matters. If the circulation of the skin is dis- 
turbed, as it is by alcohol, so that it is unable to do its 
portion of work in the process of excretion, more work is 
required of the kidneys. These important organs are then 
overworked, resulting in more or less disturbance of the 
general health. 



THE SKIN AND THE KIDNEYS 209 

283. Effects of Alcohol upon the Kidneys. The kidneys 
differ from some other organs which can rest awhile 
without any harm to the body. For instance, we can 
keep the eyes closed for a few days, if necessary, without 
injury, and in fact often with benefit ; or, we can abstain 
from food for some days, if need be, and let the stomach 
rest. But the kidneys cannot, with safety, cease their 
work even for one hour. Their duty in ridding the blood 
of waste products and of any foreign or poisonous mate- 
rial introduced, must be done continually, or the general 
health of the whole body is disturbed. 

Thus it is, as we may well suppose, that these two impor- 
tant organs, with their large blood vessels conveying enor- 
mous amounts of blood to and from their tissues, feel very 
quickly the presence of alcohol. Alcoholic liquors tend 
to irritate the delicate kidney tissues and thus speedily 
disturb their work of excreting the waste materials from 
the blood. 

The continued congestion of the kidneys may result in 
a series of disturbances from the imperfect elimination 
of waste matter. The urea, which is a poison and which 
must be removed, may be retained in the system, while 
the albumin, which is essential to healthy blood, may be 
filtered away through the overtaxed kidneys. 

The long-continued use of alcohol may produce such a 
change in the structure of the kidneys that fat cells become 

t'nfiltrated into the tissues, causing in them what is known 
is fatty degeneration. 



210 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT 

I. Give a general definition of the skin. 2. What purpose does 
the skin serve? 3. Of what two layers is the skin composed? 
4. Describe in some detail the scarfskin. 5. What gives the color 
to the skin ? 6. Describe briefly the dermis, or true skin. 7. What 
are the papillae ? 8. How may the skin absorb various kinds of poi- 
son? 9. Give some of the more common ways in which the absorp- 
tion of poisons by the skin may take place. 10. Describe the structure 
of a hair. 

II. How does the hair grow? 12. What gives the color to the 
hair? 13. Describe the muscles with which the skin is provided. 
14. What are the nails? 15. Describe the structure of the nails. 
16. Give some practical points about the care of the nails. 17. What 
are oil glands? 18. What purpose do the oil glands serve? 19. In 
what parts of the skin are the oil glands found ? 20. Describe the 
sweat glands. 

21. What is sweat, or perspiration? 22. What is the most impor- 
tant function of the perspiration ? 23. Explain in some detail why we 
should take proper care of the skin. 24. For what two reasons are 
baths taken ? 25. Give some practical hints about bathing in cold 
water. 26. Why should we take good care of the hair ? 27. What 
useful purpose do our clothes serve? 28. Give a few practical 
points on the use of clothing. 29. What plain advice can you give 
about clothing? 30. What other points about clothing have you 
learned from the text ? 

31. Explain briefly how our bodies get rid of waste matters. 
32. What part does the blood play in these changes ? 33. What are 
the chief waste matters of the body ? 34. What is meant by excre- 
tion ? 35. What are the three chief organs of excretion ? 36. What 
do the skin and the lungs excrete? 37. What are the kidneys? 
38. Describe the structure of the kidneys. 39. What can you say 
of the work done by the kidneys? 40. Show how the three great 
organs of excretion should work in harmony. 41. Give briefly the 
effect of alcohol upon the skin. 42. What is the effect of alcoholic 
liquors upon the kidneys? 



CHAPTER X 
THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 

284. All Parts of the Body work together in Harmony. 
In the preceding chapters, we have learned that each organ 
not only looks after itself, but is ever ready to come to the 
help of other parts of the body. Everywhere we find organs 
working together for each other's good. Strike suddenly at 
the eye, and the lids fall to protect it. Tickle the foot, and 
the muscles of the leg contract and pull it away. When the 
skin is inactive, the kidneys come to its help. 

Fifty skilled mechanics might do their best at building 
a vessel or a house, but if each man worked as he pleased, 
and took no heed of the rest, the result of their work would 
be of little account. The master builder must be at his 
post, skillful to direct and quick to act. So it is with our 
bodies. The wonderful agency which governs every organ 
of the body is the nervous system. 

285. The Nervous System compared to a Telegraphic 
System. The nervous system may be aptly compared to 
a complete telegraphic system. The brain and the spinal 
cord are the main offices; and the nerves, branching off 
to all parts of the body, are the telegraph wires. The 
brain and the spinal cord together are called the cerebro- 
spinal center. Dispatches are constantly being sent to the 
cerebro-spinal center to inform it of what is going on in 
various parts of the body. The cerebro-spinal center, on 



212 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 




receiving the news, at once sends back its commands as to 
what must be done. In brief, countless dispatches are sent 
to and fro with wonderful rapidity and unerring precision. 

Thus, if we accidentally pick up a hot coal, we drop it 
instantly. A nervous impulse or message is sent from the 
nerves of touch in the fingers to the cerebro- 
spinal center, which hurries off its orders to 
the muscles of the fingers to drop the burn- 
ing coal. 

286. Nerve Cells and Fibers. Nerve tissue 
is really made up of a great number of distinct 
units called nerve cells. Each cell usually 
contains a large nucleus and gives off one or 
FIG. 130. more tiny branches, or processes. These cells 
Nerve Cells vary more in shape and size than any other 
cells in the body. Each nerve cell has a 
number of short branches, and many have 
also one long branch which can be traced for some distance 
from the cell body. This rootlike process is called an axis 
cylinder. This is the beginning 
of a nerve fiber. 

In most fibers a layer of 
white, fatty substance, called 
the medullary sheath, protects 
this soft, gray central core, the 
axis cylinder, as a kind of insu- 
lating material, just as electric 
wires are sometimes covered 
with waxed paper or thread to 
prevent the escape of the current. Outside of this is 
another transparent sheath, or covering, called the neuri- 
lemma. Some fibers lack the white medullary sheath. 



from the 
Spinal Cord. 




FIG. 131. Nerve Cells from the 
Gray Matter of the Brain. 




THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 213 

Nerve fibers may be only the smallest fraction of an 
inch in length, or they may be several feet long. Thus, 
there are nerve fibers which run from the spinal cord to 
the tips of the toes. The axis cylinders end in branches 
running to muscle fibers, to glands, or they may end in 
contact with sense cells in a sense organ. 

Wherever the nerve cells are abundant, the nerve tissue 
has a gray color; in other places, it looks white. Most 
of the gray matter of the brain is on the surface. In the 
spinal cord, the gray 
matter lies within the 
white matter, pre- 
senting, in section, a 

,. ' FIG. 132. Portion of a Medullated 

Crude outline of the Nerve Fiber. 

letter H (Fig. 140). The axis cylinder is in the center. On either side 
287. Work done by * s seen tne medullary sheath, represented by 

__ _ - __ dark lines. The primitive sheath, or neuri- 

JNerve CellS and Nerve lemma, is on the outside and represented by 
Fibers. The nerve white lines in which is a nerve corpuscle with 

an oval nucleus. 

cells are highly active 

masses of living matter which are nourished by material 

brought to them by the blood. 

The nerve fibers are conductors of nervous impulses or 
messages. They serve, not unlike telegraph wires, to con- 
nect remote parts of the body with central nerve stations. 

Experiment 64. To show the structure of the nerves. Take a 
small piece of a nerve, which may be easily obtained from the 
market. Tease it lengthwise with needles on a glass slide. With 
a hand lens, or even with the naked eye, the nerve is seen to be 
made up of silky threads. 

Take one of the threads and fray it out as finely as possible on a 
clean slide. Add a drop of saline solution, and examine under the 
high power of the microscope. The nerve fibers are now seen as 
exceedingly slender, white threads with a well-marked wavy outline. 



2I 4 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



FIG. 133. Diagram of a 
Neuron, or Nerve Unit. 

Showing a motor cell with its 
long, unbranched process 
(with two little lateral off- 
shoots), with motor endings 
in striated, voluntary mus- 
cular tissue. 



288. Structure of the Nerves. If 
we take a small piece of a nerve from 
a dead rabbit or frog, and with needles 
separate it lengthwise on a glass 
slide, we find it can be pulled apart 
into bundles of silky threads. If 
these threads are frayed out as finely 
as possible, the high power of the 
microscope reveals still smaller 
threads or fibers. It would take 
about four thousand average-sized 
nerve fibers to cover an inch when 
placed side by side. 

The nerve fibers bound together 
in cords of various sizes form the 
nerves. 

289. General Arrangement of the 
Nervous System. The nervous sys- 
tem consists of two great sets of 
nerves and nerve centers which are 
intimately related, and yet for con- 
venience may be studied apart. 

These are the cerebro-spinal system 
and the sympathetic system. 

The cerebro-spinal, or central nerv- 
ous, system consists of the brain and 
the spinal cord, together with the nerves 
which branch off from each. 

The sympathetic system consists 
chiefly of a double chain of ganglia, 
or knots of nerve cells, lying at 
the sides and in front of the spinal 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 



2I 5 



column, and connected with one another and with the 
central nervous system by nerve fibers (Sec. 304). 

290. The Brain. The brain fills the entire cavity of the 
skull, and consists of a number of separate masses of nerve 
matter abundantly supplied 

with blood vessels (Fig. 98). 

The brain is the organ of 
the mind; in other words, 
it is the seat of con- 
sciousness, the intellect, 
the memory, the will, the 
affections, the emotions, 
and sensation. 

The brain controls all 
voluntary motions. 

291. The Weight of the 
Brain. The average weight 
of the human brain is about 
fifty ounces, or about three 
pounds. 1 A few cases have 

1 The brain of Oliver Cromwell 
is said to have weighed eighty 
ounces. Daniel Webster's brain 
weighed fifty-three and a half 
ounces, and Ruloff's a notorious 
murderer, but in some respects a 
very learned man fifty-nine 
ounces. The brain of Cuvier, the 
celebrated naturalist, weighed 
sixty-four and a third ounces ; and 
that of Dupuytren, a famous 
French surgeon, sixty-two and a 

half ounces. The hats of ten gentlemen were tried upon the skull of Robert 
Burns, and the only one of the ten that could cover it was the hat of Themas 
Carlyle. An idiot's brain is usually small, rarely exceeding thirty ounces. 




FIG. 134. Diagram illustrating the 
General Arrangement of the Nerv- 
ous System. (Posterior view.) 



216 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



been noted in men of great mental capacity, in which the 
brain weighed sixty-four ounces. As a rule, a large brain 
stands for a vigorous mind and superior faculties. 

The brain and head in a child are very large in propor- 
tion to the rest of the body. -The brain grows very rapidly 
until the fifth year, then very slowly, and after twenty the 

growth is not per- 
ceptible. 

292. The Three 
Parts of the Brain. 
The three princi- 
pal masses or 
parts which make 
up the brain are: 

(1) the cerebrum, 
or brain proper ; 

(2) the cerebellum, 
or lesser brain ; 

(3) the medulla ob- 
longata. 

293. The Cere- 
brum. The cere- 
brum fills the 
whole of the up- 
per part of the 
skull, and is nearly 
seven eighths cf 

the entire mass. It consists of two parts, or halves, almost 
separated from each other by a deep cleft, or fissure, from 
front to back. Each of these halves or hemispheres, as 
they are called consists of three portions, or lobes, so 
that the cerebrum is made up of six distinct parts, 




FIG. 135. The Upper Surface of the Cerebrum. 

Showing its division into two hemispheres, 
and also the convolutions. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 



294. The Convolutions of the Cerebrum. The cerebrum 
has a peculiar folded-up appearance, its various folds or 
convolutions, as they are called being separated by deep 




FIG. 136. The Left Half of a Vertical Median Section of the Brain. 

A, frontal lobe of the cerebrum; , parietal lobe; C, parieto-occipital lobe; 
D, occipital lobe ; , cerebellum ; F, arbor vitae ; H, pons Varolii ; 1C, me- 
dulla oblongata. 

clefts, sometimes nearly an inch deep. In this simple way 
the surface of the brain is increased many fold. The cere- 
brum is made up of both white and gray matter. 

The interior of the brain is made up chiefly of the 
white nerve substance just spoken of, and also important 
masses of gray matter called ganglia. The gray matter is 
the outer layer, about one eighth of an inch in thickness, 
and is spread over the white substance somewhat like a 
silk handkerchief which has been crumpled up. 



218 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

The active powers of the mind are supposed to reside in 
this outer layer of the brain. These powers are great or 
small, according to the number and the extent of its folds, 
or convolutions. In the lowest vertebrate animals the brain 
has no folds ; but as we pass to animals of a higher grade, 
the folds begin to appear. 1 

295. The Cerebellum. The cerebellum, or little brain, lies 
beneath the back part of the brain proper. It is made up 
of two halves, each formed of a number of layers of gray 
and white nerve matter, curiously arranged. These masses 
resemble somewhat, in section, the branches of a tiny tree 
and hence are fancifully called " arbor vitae " (Fig. 136). 

The functions of the cerebellum are not yet certainly 
known. It appears to aid in the control of the muscles of 
the body; that is, it serves to bring the various muscular 
movements into harmonious action. 

296. The Medulla Oblongata. The medulla oblongata is 
the thick continuation of the spinal cord lying within the 
cavity of the skull. It is just under the little brain, and 
makes the connecting link between the brain and the spinal 
cord. It is a highly important part of the brain, since from 
it arise important nerves which regulate breathing, swallow- 
ing, the heart's action, and other vital processes. If this 
part of the brain be broken or cut, respiration and circula- 
tion will at once cease, causing instant death. 



1 The brain is inclosed within three distinct membranes, the dura 
mater (hard mother), the arachnoid (like a spider's web), and the pia 
mater (delicate mother). 

The dura mater is the tough membrane which lines the inner surface of 
the skull and forms a loose outer covering for the brain. The middle 
layer, called the arachnoid, secretes a fluid which keeps the inner surface 
moist. The pia mater is a very delicate membrane which dips down between 
the folds of the cerebrum. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 



219 



Experiment 65. To show the brain. Get a sheep's brain from the 
butcher. Pay him to dissect away the skin and muscles of the skull, 
under your direc- 
tion, and to saw 
open the cranium in 
such a manner as 
to expose the entire 
upper surface of the 
brain. Remove the 
sawed top and care- 
fully tear off the 
dura mater from 
the bones. 

Now cut away 
enough of this mem- 
brane so that the 
sides of the skull 
can be sawed and 
torn away, to allow 
the brain to be lifted 
out in fair condition. 
Put all the torn parts 
and membranes 
back into place. 

The sheep's 
brain is very small 
and not to be com- 
pared in size with 
that of a man, but 
the general arrange- 
ment of the parts is 
the same. 

Note the dura mater, the tough, outer membrane ; the arachnoid, 
the thin membrane which lines the dura mater ; and the pia mater, the 

Ilelicate membrane which is closely attached to the brain. Find the 
:erebrum, or big brain ; the cerebellum, or little brain ; the medulla, 
tnd the stumps of the cranial nerves (Note, p. 218). 
In the cerebellum examine the curious folded arrangement of the 
pay and white matter forming the arbor vitae. Cut open the cerebral 




FIG. 137. The Base of the Brain. 

A, anterior lobe of the cerebrum; B, olfactory nerve; 

C, portion of the posterior lobe ; >, optic chiasm ; 

E, optic tract ; //, M, hemispheres of the cerebellum ; 

K, portion of the occipital lobe ; JV, medulla oblongata ; 

R, pons Varolii. (See also Fig. 98.) 



220 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 




- J ;--ist and 2nd 
Spinal Nerves 



FIG. 138. BLACKBOARD SKETCH. 

Diagram of the Distribution of 
the Cranial Nerves. 

The cranial nerves are thus arranged in pairs : 

1, olfactory nerves, special nerves of smell; 

2, optic nerves, passing to each eyeball, de- 
voted to sight ; 3, 4, and 6 control the muscles 
of the eyes ; 5, trifacial in three branches, 
which proceed mainly to the face, partly sen- 
sory and partly motor ; 7, facial nerves, con- 
trolling the facial muscles ; 8, auditory, or 
nerves of hearing, distributed to the organs 
of hearing ; 9, glossopharyngeal nerves, partly 
sensory and partly motor: each nerve con- 
tains two roots, one a nerve of taste, the other 
a motor nerve, which controls the muscles 
engaged in swallowing; 10, pneumogastric 
nerves (described in Sec. 297); u, spinal 
accessory nerves, supplying some of the mus- 
cles of the neck and back; 12, hypoglossal 
nerves, controlling the movements of the 
tongue in speech and swallowing. 



hemisphere andobserve the 
gray and the white matter 
inside. The brain should 
be first examined as a 
whole, and compared with 
the description given in the 
text, or with the diagrams 
of the human brain. With 
careful dissection and by 
comparison with diagrams, 
most of the twelve pairs 
of cranial nerves can be 
identified. 

NOTE. A fresh brain 
is too soft for handling or 
for careful study. Hence 
it should be hardened and 
made ready for use several 
weeks before it is needed. 
A mixture of one fourth of 
an ounce of bichromate 
of potash and one ounce 
of a forty-per-cent solu- 
tion of formalin to about 
one quart of water makes 
a useful hardening and 
preserving fluid. 

297. The Cranial 

Nerves. From each 
side of the brain pro- 
ceed twelve pairs of 
nerves, called cranial 
nerves. They pass out 
of the skull in pairs 
through little holes in 
its base, and supply the 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 



221 



face, the organs of smell, taste, hearing, and sight, and 
certain internal organs. The cranial nerves are of three 
kinds, sensory, motor, and mixed, i.e. combining both. 

The tenth pair, called the pneumogastric or the vagus, the 
"wandering nerve," is perhaps the most important nerve 
in the body. It 
supplies the larynx, 
the lungs, the 
heart, the stomach, 
and the liver. It is 
partly motor and 
partly sensory. 

298. The Spinal 
Cord. The spinal 
cord is a column of 
soft nerve tissue, 
extending from the 
base of the skull to 
the region of the 
loins, where it 
tapers into little 
threads. It is a 
continuation of the 
medulla oblongata, 
and its average 
length is about 
eighteen inches. 

The spinal cord 
receives 
sions from various 
parts of the body by means of its sensory nerves, and 
carries them to the brain, where they excite sensation, 




FIG. 139. Trunk of the Left Pneumogastric 

Nerve. 

Showing its distribution by its branches and ganglia to 
imp res- t he larynx, pharynx, heart, lungs, and other parts. 



222 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

or consciousness. It also sends out, by means of its motor 
nerves, the commands of the brain to the voluntary muscles. 

Experiment 66. To show the spinal cord. Get at the market an 
uninjured piece of the spine of an ox. Cut this across with a sharp 
knife, and examine it for the following points. The cord is clothed 
with a vascular membrane, the pia mater, and is composed partly of 
a white substance lying on the outside, and partly of a pinkish-gray 
substance lying within. There are two crescentlike masses of gray 
substance (arranged roughly in the form of an H), lying one in each 
half of the cord and joined by a narrow bridge of the same material, 
which crosses the middle of the cord. The white matter surrounds 
the gray crescents. 

The cord is almost divided into halves (exactly similar to each 
other) by an anterior and posterior fissure. In the middle of the 
bridge of gray matter there is a little canal, called the " central canal," 
which runs the whole length of the spinal cord. This canal cannot, 
however, be seen with the naked eye. 

299. Reflex Action of the Cord and Brain. The spinal 
cord is not merely a bundle of nerve fibers for carrying 
messages to and from the brain. It also acts as a kind of 
independent center, receiving messages from certain parts 
of the body by means of its sensory nerves, and on its 
own authority sending back orders to the muscles by its 
motor nerves, without waiting to consult the brain. This 
is known as reflex action. 

If one is asleep, and the feet are gently tickled, the legs 
will be moved out of the way without the sleeper necessarily 
being awakened. When the spine is broken by an injury, 
causing pressure upon the cord, all sensation and motion are 
lost in the paralyzed limbs. But if these paralyzed limbs 
are irritated, as by pricking the soles of the feet with a needle, 
then the legs kick out vigorously. The injured person does 
not feel the pain of the needle, and can exercise no control 
over the legs. There is no conscious action whatever. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 



223 



This unconscious motion is the result of reflex action 
of the spinal cord. It is called reflex because the impres- 
sion does not go to the brain, but is reflected, meaning 
turned back again, from the sensory nerves through the 
motor nerves. 

300. Importance of Reflex Action. We rarely stop to 
think how important reflex action is to our health, comfort, 
and safety. Because we are able to do hundreds of things 




L 



POSTERIOR - V v. 

FIG. 140. BLACKBOARD SKETCH. 
Illustrating the path of a simple nervous reflex action. 1 

every day without any effort of the will, we are apt to for- 
get its importance. In fact, the greater part of nerve power 
expended in the body goes to produce these numberless 
reflex actions. 

1 For illustration, let us note what happens when the tips of the fingers 
are in danger of being burnt. The organ of sensation in the finger tip 
sends the impression of pain along the sensory fibers (through the ganglion) 
of the posterior root by means of a long nerve branch to the cells in the 
posterior horn of the gray matter of the spinal cord. At the cord, the 
sensation may go to the brain, or instead it may at once pass to the anterior 
horn of the gray matter of the cord. Thence the impulse is sent forth 
along the motor fibers to the muscles of the arm. The muscles promptly 
contract, and the fingers are jerked away from the irritating object even 
before the brain knows what is taking place. 



224 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



We are not so independent in our daily actions as one 
would at first think. Ten thousand unconscious acts take 
place which tend to govern and preserve our health. We 
have as little control over them as we have over the stars 
above us. 

301. Familiar Examples of Reflex Action. Let us call to 
mind a few familiar examples of reflex action. If our feet 

slip on the ice, with- 
out the effort of the 
will the body tends 
to recover itself. The 
mind does not always 
act, at least in the 
ordinary way, to pull 
the fingers away when 
they touch a hot stove. 
We try to brush the 
flies away when we 
are asleep. 

By an effort of the 
will, we can stop our 
breath for a moment 
or two ; but soon the 
call for air is impera- 
tive, and the order 
must be obeyed, whether we will or no. The great work 
of digestion is going on day after day, but we have no 
control over its complicated movements. 

Experiment 67. To illustrate reflex action. Tickle the inside of 
the nose with a feather. This does not interfere with the muscles of 
breathing, but by reflex action they come to the help of the irritated 
part, and provoke sneezing to clear and thus protect the nose. 




FIG. 141. Dental Branch of One of the 
Divisions of the Fifth Pair of Cranial 
Nerves, supplying the Lower Teeth. 

Branches from the motor root, distributed to 
various muscles, are also shown. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 225 

302. How Reflex Action gives Relief to the Brain. Reflex 
action relieves the " thinking centers" of the brain of a vast 
amount of work. If we were forced to use our will power 
at every step in the process of digestion, the brain would 
be put to a severe strain. We could not eat, and then 
quietly go about our business. If we had to plan and will 
every heart beat, we should soon be ready to give up the 
struggle for life. 

If we had to exert our will every time we breathed, we 
should soon get tired of it, and long to die. We could 
never sleep, for the brain would have to be on the alert 
to decide if it were time for the next heart beat, the next 
inspiration, and the proper time for each digestive fluid 
to flow. 

303. The Spinal Nerves. From the spinal cord thirty- 
one pairs of spinal nerves proceed to the trunk and the limbs. 
They pass out on each side of the spinal canal through 
small openings at the sides of the backbone. 

Each of these spinal nerves has two roots, one going 
from the front part, and the other from the back part, of 
the cord. These two roots unite and form one silvery cord 
as they pass out from the backbone (Fig. 140). 

The root which goes from the front, or anterior, part of 
the spinal cord consists of motor fibers and controls muscles. 

The root which comes from the back, or posterior, part of 
the cord consists of sensory fibers and transmits sensations 
from the various parts of the body to the spinal cord. 

As each nerve trunk leaves the backbone, it subdivides 
and sends off branches into all parts of the body. Each 
branch contains fibers from both roots. If any one of these 
nerves or branches is cut or injured, the power of feeling 
and movement ceases in all those parts to which it is 



226 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



distributed, that is, those parts 
The case is not unlike that of 
and thus stopping the passage 




FIG. 142. The Cervical and Thoracic 
Portions of the Sympathetic Nerve and 
their Main Branches. 

In the center of the figure, running almost 
vertically, is shown the right pneumogastric 
nerve. To the left may be seen a chain of 
ganglia of the sympathetic nerve, running 
along the vertebrae. The distribution of 
some smaller ganglia and nerve branches in 
the neck and chest regions are also shown. 



of the body are paralyzed, 
cutting a telegraph wire, 
of the electric current. 

304. The Sympathetic 
Nervous System. The 
sympathetic nervous sys- 
tem, 1 as we have learned 
(Sec. 289), consists of a 
double chain of nerve 
knots, or ganglia, con- 
nected by nervous cords 
running down in front 
and on each side of the 
backbone. 

The knots of nerves 
are connected with each 
other, and with the spinal 
nerves, by a network of 
nerve fibers. 

Through the sympa- 
thetic ganglia, nerve 
fibers from a part of 
each spinal nerve pass 
on their way to impor- 
tant internal organs. A 
close network of the 

1 The name " sympathetic " 
was given to this part of the 
nervous system because it was 
believed that, through its 
agency, distant organs have 
sympathy with one another's 
afflictions. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 



227 



sympathetic nerves is formed upon the heart, and about the 
lungs, the stomach, and the intestines, as well as around 
the walls of the minute arteries and capillaries. 

A large part of the regulating action of the vital organs 
is controlled by the influences which thus reach these 
organs through the 
sympathetic nerves. 

305. How the Sym- 
pathetic System acts. 
It is believed that the 
sympathetic nerves do 
not serve as independ- 
ent nervous centers. 
The influences which 
they convey to the 
great processes that 
are beyond the control 
of the will, are derived 
from the brain or the 
spinal cord. 

Therefore we may 
think of these great 
networks, or plexuses, F 

* TO* 

Of nerves, not as a Showing the distribution of some of the great 
Separate nervOUS plexuses of the sympathetic nerve in the 
, lumbar and sacral regions. 

system, but as an out- 
lying part of the cerebro-spinal system. The sympathetic nerves 
are very slow to act. A blush steals slowly up to the 
roots of the hair. If we go from the dark into a strong 
light, we are blinded. The pupil of the eye is too large. 
An impression is made on the sympathetic nerve, which 
causes it to contract slowly while we are shading our eyes. 




223 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

306. The Health of the Nervous System. The health of 
every organ of the body is dependent upon the welfare 
of the nervous system. 

If a tiny blood vessel in the brain is broken and forms 
a little clot as large as a pea, a paralysis of one side may 
be produced by its pressure on the delicate brain tissue. 
An overloaded stomach may make the brain dull and 
stupid for some time. Indigestion may make one cross, 
morose, and unhappy. The long loss of sleep may cause 
exquisite suffering. 

A slight blow on the head may instantly rob a man of 
consciousness. On the other hand, severe accidents to the 
brain may not produce serious results. By breathing in such 
poisons as ether or carbonic acid gas, the blood is so altered 
that the brain ceases to act and consciousness vanishes. 

307. Brain Power increased by Education. Like any 
other organ, the brain may be strengthened and increased 
in its power by education. Impressions made upon the 
mind in early life are more readily received and more com- 
pletely retained than those which are made when the growth 
of the brain is far advanced. For this reason, education 
should be begun early in life ; and educational influences 
brought to bear at that time are most effective in shaping 
mental growth. It is an object for which most parents are 
willing to work hard and to exercise much self-denial. 

308. Worry and not Mental Work overtaxes the Nervous 
System. Just as the stomach may be overworked and fail 
after a time to digest food properly, and as muscles are 
exhausted by overexertion, so may the nervous system, 
especially the brain, be overtaxed. 

Mental work is rarely hurtful to a healthy person who 
takes good care of himself. It is not so much severe 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 



229 



mental toil as it is worry that disturbs the mental poise. 
It is not study, but fretting, that causes the student to 
break down in his studies. Let young people have plenty 
of nutritious food properly given, plenty of sound sleep, 
enough suitable clothing, and a calm and wise oversight at 
home, and they will rarely be injured by too much study. 

It is fretting about passing examinations, worrying about 
promotions, and other bane- 
ful influences, which have 
become attached to our 
educational system like 
barnacles to a stately ship, 
that may make the deli- 
cate, sensitive child cross, 
peevish, and sickly. 

309. Abuse of the Nerv- 
ous System. Every tiny 
cell of the nervous system 
is busily at work doing its 
allotted duty. Now, let a 
person fret and worry day 
after day over real or fancied 
troubles, abuse his digest- 
ive organs by too much or too little food, go without proper 
sleep, smoke or chew tobacco in excess, try to prop up his 
flagging energies with strong coffee or alcoholic liquors, and 
the strain on the nervous system will make him, sooner or 
later, a mental wreck. 

Like a spendthrift who spends his principal and per- 
sists in calling it his income, so is a man who is indulging 
in various forms of dissipation really exhausting the limited 
amount of nervous force at his command. Unhealthful and 






FIG. 144. Dental Branches of One 
of the Divisions of the Fifth Pair 
of Cranial Nerves, supplying the 
Upper Teeth. 



230 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

injurious habits, whether in the important or the compara- 
tively trifling matters of daily living, are drafts drawn on 
the future, which must be met at no distant day with all 
the attendant perils of physical or mental bankruptcy. 

310. The Importance of Sleep. The need of sleep is 
self-evident, and the loss of it is one of the more common 
causes of ill health. The muscles and the nerves, the 
brain in particular, are in full activity when we are awake. 
Repair goes on every moment, whether we are awake or 
asleep. During the waking hours, however, the waste of 
the tissues is in excess of the repair, while during sleep the 
repair exceeds the waste. 

Hence the good mother, nature, at regular intervals, 
causes all parts of the bodily machinery to be run at their 
lowest pressure. In other words, we are put to sleep. 

311. Rest of Important Organs during Sleep. During 
sleep the heart beats, the lungs take in air, and the stomach 
digests its food ; but these great organic processes are 
carried on but feebly. The vital organs rest because they 
are worked at their lowest rate. 

The eye, the ear, the brain, and the nerves are rested by 
darkness, silence, and unconsciousness. The tired muscles 
thus regain their vigor and the exhausted brain is refreshed. 

Sleep is more or less sound according to circumstances. 
Fatigue, if not too great, aids it ; while idleness lessens it. 
Anxious thought and pain and even anticipated pleasure 
may prevent it. The sounder the sleep, the more the body 
and the mind are refreshed. 

312. Hints about Sleep. The best time for sleep is at night. 
The soundest and best sleep is obtained during silence and 
darkness. People who are forced to work at night and to 
sleep during the day usually have a strained and wearied look. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 



2 3 I 



The amount of sleep necessary depends upon our occu- 
pation and our temperament. Some require little sleep, 
while others need a great deal. Eight hours of sound sleep 
for a grown man or woman, and more for children, is about 
the average amount required. Children naturally need 
more sleep because 
their bodies need 
more rest during the 
period 'of growth. 
Hence the infant 
sleeps most of the 
time, if well and prop- 
erly cared for. 

Little children 
should always be put 
to bed early and 
allowed to sleep in the 
morning until they 
awake of themselves. 
During hot weather 
the active child should 
be undressed, bathed, 
and put to bed in the 
middle of the day for 
a good nap. Do not 
go to bed with the 
brain excited or too active. Read some pleasant book, talk 
quietly, sing, take a brisk walk, or otherwise indulge in a little 
quiet recreation for half an hour before going to bed. 

313. Some of the First Effects of Alcoholic Liquors upon 
the Nervous System. The first symptom which shows that 
the nerves are disturbed by drinking alcoholic liquors is the 




FIG. 145. 

Showing some of the superficial nerves on the left 
side of the neck and the head. A few super- 
ficial muscles and arteries in the same region 
are also shown. 



232 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



quickened action of the heart, and with it the dilatation of 
the blood vessels. The face is flushed and there is a glow 
over the skin, because the nerves which regulate the size 
of the blood vessels are partially paralyzed by the alcohol. 
The tiny blood vessels of the brain are dilated and the 
nerve cells are stimulated. The brain 
may become more active, thoughts 
flow more rapidly, and the speech 
become more fluent ; but such activ- 
ity is only an indication of a disturb- 
ance of the natural conditions of the 
body. The power of right thinking 
is diminished, and the fluent speech 
in a short time tends to become 
lacking in good sense. 

The parts of the brain used in the 
higher processes of thought and rea- 
soning seem to be the most delicate 
and therefore most easily injured. 
Investigation has shown that it is 
these delicate parts of the brain 
which are first injured by alcohol. 
Thus, the common observation that 
alcohol impairs first the higher func- 
tions of the mind finds its confirma- 
tion and explanation in discoveries 
made by the microscope concerning the changes which alco- 
hol may cause in the actual structures of the brain. 

The effect of wine sometimes seen at a social dinner where 
those who have taken moderate amounts begin to grow talka- 
tive, excitable, and hilarious represents an unnatural state 
of the nervous system. Such persons are really in the first 




FIG. 146. Superficial, or 
Cutaneous, Nerves on 
the Back of the Left 
Forearm and Hand. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 233 

stage of intoxication, which is that of mental excitement. 
This brief period of excitement is usually followed by the 
depressant or narcotic action of alcohol. It is incorrect, 
therefore, to call that which produces progressive paralysis 
of the center of the nervous system, both sensory and 
motor, a stimulant. 1 

314. The Power of Self -Control weakened by Alcohol. 
The power of self-control, which is the most difficult of the 
human faculties to acquire, and the last to be fully attained, 
is the first to be weakened by alcohol. In this fact lies the 
danger of the use of alcohol as a beverage. For example, 
some men intend to take only one drink on some social occa- 
sion; but that one drink so weakens their mastery of them- 
selves that they drink glass after glass. Others set out to 
use alcoholic drinks moderately every day ; but usually as 
time passes they allow themselves increasing limits. Self- 
control weakens under the repeated contact of alcohol with 
the brain cells. 

This is the history of practically every drunkard ; while the 
example of those who drink but do not become drunkards 
leads astray thousands of others whose nervous systems 

1 Helmholtz, at the celebration of his seventieth birthday, spoke of ideas 
" flashing up from the depth of the unknown soul " that lies at the founda- 
tion of every truly creative intellectual production, and closed his account 
with these words : " The smallest quantity of alcoholic beverages seems to 
frighten them away." 

Some people imagine that after the use of alcohol they can do things 
more quickly, that they are brisker and sharper, but exact measurement 
shows that they are slower and less accurate. Men believe that they are 
wiser and brighter, but their sayings are more automatic and apt to be 
profane. To quote T. Leander Brunton, M.D., of London, England, " It 
produces progressive paralysis of the judgment," and this begins with the 
first glass. Men say and do, even after drinking a single glass of liquor, 
what they would not say or do without it, and therefore it clearly affects 
the brain and diminishes self-control. G. SIMS WOODHEAD, M.D. 



234 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

are more quickly injured by alcohol or whose conditions 
in life are less favorable for resisting its effects. 1 

315. The Next Step. Smaller quantities of alcohol than 
those usually considered moderate can be shown, by fine 
tests, to weaken self-control. If more is taken, there grad- 
ually follows loss of power over some of the muscles, and 
the energy of the whole muscular system is lessened. The 
muscles of the lower lip and the legs are the first to feel 
this unnatural torpor. The speech is thick and the gait 
uncertain. 

The nerve cells of the higher, or controlling, part of the 
brain may soon be brought within the grasp of the alcoholic 
influence, and the faculties of the mind are still more 
impaired. Reason is off duty, and the lower, or animal, 
impulses begin to manifest themselves. First, the control 
of judgment and the will disappears, and the emotional, 
the impulsive, and the purely instinctive part of our nature 
is laid bare. 2 

316. The Last Stage. In the last stage which may result 
even from drinking a single large amount of alcohol, the 
paralysis of the nerve centers and of the brain is carried to 
a greater extent. All the inlets of the senses are closed, 

1 Men following intellectual pursuits are apt to be victims of mental 
and bodily degradation through alcohol, for once they come under its 
subtle control, the craving for it in men of educated brains is perhaps 
stronger than in men of uneducated brains. T. S. CLOUSTON, M.D. 

Alcohol destroys the individuality of man and paralyzes his body and 
his will power. A. BAER, M.D. 

2 The stimulating action which alcohol appears to exert on the func- 
tions of the brain is only a paralytic action. The cerebral functions which 
are first interfered with are the power of clear judgment and reason. The 
lively gesticulations and useless exertions of intoxicated people are due to 
a kind of paralysis, the restraining influences being removed which pre- 
vent a sober man from uselessly expending his strength. G. VON BUNGE, 
Professor of Physiological Chemistry, University of Basel. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 235 

all consciousness and sensation are lost, and all power over 
the voluntary movements is gone. The heart still beats, 
the blood circulates, and the breathing still goes on; but 
these are the sole remnants of vitality, the slender 
threads by which a hold is retained upon life. 

317. Progressive Changes in Character caused by Strong 
Drink. The person who habitually, or even occasionally, 
stupefies his faculties or paralyzes his judgment and reason 
with alcoholic drinks disqualifies himself by this action for 
responsible duties. In family and social relations he is 
often irritable, unjust in his judgments, careless sometimes 




FIG. 147. The Main Nerve Trunks of the Right Forearm, showing the 
Accompanying Radial and Ulnar Arteries. (Anterior view.) 

to the extent of absolute cruelty in his responsibilities to 
those related to him by the tenderest ties. In business he 
becomes incapable of continued application, loses the sense 
of responsibility, and may become actually dishonest. 

Most railroads now demand total abstinence of their 
employees. From a strictly business point of view it does 
not pay great corporations to employ engineers, switchmen, 
telegraph operators, or men in any responsible position who 
use alcoholic liquors. The directors know too well that the 
risk of life, limb, and property is thereby greatly increased. 

Other industries are rapidly adopting the same meas- 
ures as a protection against loss and accidents. Insurance 



236 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

companies class even moderate but habitual users of alcoholic 
liquors as "extra risks." The great mass of statistics 
gathered by these companies, bearing upon the tenure of 
human life, go to show that the man who never drinks 
alcoholic beverages is likely to live longer than one 
who does. 

318. The Final Result of Alcoholism. After a longer 
or a shorter time the usual result of the continuous use 
of alcoholic liquor is steadily to weaken the self-control of 
its victim, and at last to make him a slave to his lower 
nature. The craving for ardent spirit becomes well-nigh 
irresistible. Self-respect, honor, conscience, everything, is 
sacrificed in this craving for strong drink. 

The disease known as delirium tremens, meaning a 
trembling madness, is not an uncommon instance of the 
profound effect of the habitual use of alcohol upon the 
nerve centers. 

There is still another depth of ruin in such a downward 
course, and that is insanity. In fact, every instance of com- 
plete intoxication is a case of temporary insanity, that 
is, of mental unsoundness with loss of self-control. Per- 
manent insanity may be one of the last results of intem- 
perance. Alcoholism sends to our insane asylums a large 
proportion of their inmates, as ample records testify. 1 

319. Moral Effect of the Alcoholic Habit. The once 
active will power of the man who has become the victim 
of alcohol is a thing of the past. He can no longer resist 
the feeblest impulse to temptation. The grand faculty of 

1 About thirty per cent of the male cases in lunatic asylums where 
inebriates are taken may be classed as direct alcoholic lunacy. The 
indirect victims of the drunken habits of their ancestors no doubt form 
a larger, but incalculable, number of the inmates of such asylums. 
A. FOREL, M.D. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 



237 



self-control is lost, and as a result the baser instincts of 
his lower nature are now uppermost ; greed and appetite 
often rule unrestrained. 

The moral power of such a man is also dragged down 
to the lowest depths. The finer sensibilities of character 
are deadened; pride of personal 
appearance, nice self-respect and 
proper regard for the good opinion 
of others, the sense of decorum, 
are gone, and at last even decency 
disappears. Dignity of behavior 
may yield to silliness, and the 
person lately respected becomes 
an object of pity and loathing. 

Convictions of right and wrong 
now find little place in his nature ; 
conscience is silenced, dishonesty 
prevails. This is true both as to 
solemn promises, and also as to 
property. The drunkard may 
resort to any form of fraud or theft 
to feed the consuming craving for 
more alcohol. 

320. Hereditary Results of 
Strong Drink. We may inherit 
mental and physical vigor or weak- 
ness, our features, and even moral 
tendencies. The children of par- 
ents whose brains are injured by alcohol are more prone 
than others to mental disorders and to those widely varied 
diseases which, for lack of a better name, we vaguely call 
"nervous." This is proved by the unusual prevalence in 




FIG. 148. A Great Nerve 
(Crural) and its Branches 
on the Front of the Thigh. 

The femoral artery with its cut 
end is shown. 



238 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

such families of infant mortality, convulsions, epilepsy, 
hysteria, obscure brain diseases, and imbecility. 1 

321. Tobacco and its Effect upon the Nerve Centers. 
Tobacco, whether snuffed, chewed, or smoked, is a nar- 
cotic and a poison. Its injurious effects are due to its 
active principle called nicotine, which is a narcotic poison. 2 

Tobacco is hurtful to young people, and by no means 
free of harm to adults. It produces an artificial exhaustion, 
as it were, of the nerve centers. The tobacco habit once 
acquired generally leads to continual and increasing use. 

Thus, after a time, tobacco may produce functional 
derangement of the nervous system, palpitation of the 
heart, certain forms of dyspepsia, and more or less irrita- 
tion of the throat and lungs. 3 

Sometimes, after long smoking, a sensation of dizziness, 
with a momentary loss of consciousness, is experienced. 
While the stomach is empty, protracted smoking will often 
produce a feeling of nausea, accompanied by a headache. 

1 Of all the effects of alcohol, none are so deplorable as the fact that 
the offspring must suffer for the craving of its parents. This is more 
apparent when both father and mother have been habitual alcoholics. 
P. M. LIGHTFOOT, M.D. 

A man may claim that he has drunk whisky all his life and is yet in a 
good state of preservation. Such may be the case, but to see the full 
effect of his habit, look at his children, and we find that they will not com- 
pare favorably with those whose parents have not been given to strong 
drink. Journal of the American Medical Association. 

2 The external application of tobacco to chafed surfaces, and even to 
the healthy skin, will occasion severe and sometimes fatal results. A tea 
made of tobacco, and applied to the skin, has caused death in three hours. 
Smoking a large quantity of tobacco at one time has been known to pro- 
duce violent and even fatal effects. Nicotine is one of the most rapidly 
fatal poisons known. It takes about one minute for a single drop to kill 
a full-grown cat. One drop has killed a rabbit in three minutes. 

3 I never smoke because I have seen the most efficient proofs of the 
injurious effects of tobacco on the nervous system. CHARLES EDOUARD 

BROWN-S6QUARD, M.D. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 



239 



322. Effect of Tobacco upon the Nervous System. The 
cells of the brain may become poisoned from tobacco. The 
ideas may lack clearness of outline. The will power may 
be weakened, and it may be an effort to do the routine 
duties of life. The old tobacco 

user is often cross, irritable, and 
liable to outbursts of passion. The 
memory may also be impaired. 

The narcotic principle, the deadly 
nicotine, has retarded the nutrition 
of the delicate nerve cells. The 
nerve centers are no longer able to 
hoard up their usual amount of vital 
energy. Hence arise the many and 
various nervous symptoms due to the 
poisonous effect of tobacco. Many 
men in mature life, especially those 
engaged in sedentary occupations, 
suffer from nervous breakdown in 
consequence of the habitual use of 
this noxious weed. 

323. Smoking Cigarettes. The 
smoking of cigarettes cannot be too FlG 
severely condemned. They are often 
made of the cheapest materials, and 
sometimes " doctored" with refuse 
substances, and even forms of opium, 

in order to give some bulk and "tone" to the originally 
cheap material. Cigarettes are so common and so cheap 
that their use by thousands of young persons has become a 
serious matter. The laws of many states very properly for- 
bid the sale of tobacco, especially of cigarettes, to minors. 



A Great Nerve 
(Posterior Tibial) on the 
Back of the Leg, with its 
Accompanying Artery of 
the Same Name. 



240 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

324. Effects of Tobacco upon Young People. Tobacco, 
in any form, has a peculiarly injurious effect upon young 
and growing persons. 1 It not only stunts their growth, 
but produces a weakened state of the system, which tends 
greatly to impair muscular and mental activity. The pro- 
found effect that tobacco has upon the nervous system 
after the first trial of smoking or chewing is matter of 
familiar experience. 

Even after the system gets used to the narcotic, young 
people continue to suffer oftentimes from nausea, dizziness, 
headache, muscular trembling, loss of appetite, and general 
weakness. 

Here is one bit of advice for you to remember all the 
days of your life : Do not smoke or chew tobacco if you 
wish to keep strong and well, and to succeed in life. 

325. The Use of Tobacco from a Moral Point of View. 
The effect of tobacco on the moral nature often shows 
itself in a selfish disregard for the rights of others. The 
smoker has no right to make with his tobacco smoke the 
air about him unfit for others to breathe. He has no 
right to puff his smoke into the faces of people on the 
streets, or thus to pollute the air of public places which 
others are obliged to share with him. 

The fact that he does this knowing that to many people 
the smoke of tobacco is offensive, and that some are even 

1 While tobacco is injurious to every one, it is far more harmful to those 
who are growing. A boy who uses tobacco can never have the strength 
of body or the vigor of mind he would have had except for its use. Boys 
and young men entering the employ of a great business house or a corpo- 
ration where their success depends upon strength, alertness, skill, and 
accuracy, as well as integrity and industry, would surely reach a much 
higher success if they abstained totally from all narcotics. WINFIELD S. 
HALL, M.D., Northwestern University Medical School, Chicago. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 



241 



made sick by it, shows his lack of refinement as well as 
moral sense. Other evidence of the same character is 
the filthy habit of spitting on sidewalks, floors, stoves, and 
other objects, with which some smokers and chewers of 
tobacco disgust all cleanly people. 

326. Harmful Effect of Tobacco 
upon the Mental Development of 
Young Students. Our military and 
naval academies and many semi- 
naries and colleges very properly 
prohibit the use of tobacco by their 
students. The honors of the great 
schools, academies, and colleges are 
very largely taken by the abstainers 
from tobacco. This is proved by 
the result of repeated and exten- 
sive comparisons of the advanced 
classes in a great number of sec- 
ondary schools and colleges both 
in this country and in Europe. 

The reason for this is plain. The 
mind of the habitual user of tobacco 
is apt to lose its capacity for study 
or successful effort. This is espe- 
cially true of boys and young men. 
The growth and development of the 
brain having been once retarded, 
the youthful user of tobacco has 
established a permanent drawback which may hamper him 
all his life. The keenness of his mental perception may be 
dulled and his ability to seize and hold an abstract thought 
may be impaired. 




FIG. 150. A Great Nerve 
(Plantar) and its Branches 
which supply the Bottom 
of the Feet. 

Note the cut tendons of the 
great muscles of the leg. 



242 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

327. Opium and its Various Forms. Opium, one of the 
most powerful of the narcotic poisons, is the dried juice 
of the white poppy. It has the power of deadening the 
nerves and producing a kind of deep sleep or stupor. 

Morphine, a white powder, is a very condensed form of 
opium. Laudanum is an alcoholic solution of opium. Pare- 
goric is a diluted and flavored form of an alcoholic tincture 
of opium. 

The various forms of opium are very generally used in 
patent medicines. They form the " soothing " basis of lini- 
ments, cough killers, soothing sirups, stomach bitters, 
cholera mixtures, and numerous other preparations which 
some persons are eager to buy, hoping to get relief from 
some real or fancied disease. 

328. The Ruin wrought by Opium upon its Victim. The 
habit of taking opium completely changes its victim. A 
once upright and honest man will lie, cheat, and defraud, 
to satisfy his craving for this baneful drug. Promises and 
resolutions to stop its use may be honestly made, but are 
no more binding than ropes of sand. 

329. What may lead to the Opium Habit. Some persons, 
jaded with business or with worry, and unable to sleep, 
unwisely resort to some narcotic mixture to procure rest. 
Occasionally persons getting better from some serious sick- 
ness in which opiates were taken find that the desire for 
these drugs clings to them long after recovery. In these 
and other similar cases, the use of opiates is always most 
dangerous. 

330. The Opium Habit. Opium is a most dangerous 
drug because its use is so liable to lead to the opium habit. 
This is a craving for opium that makes life a burden for its 
victim. The person may have begun its use in the most 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 243 

innocent way to relieve pain or to secure rest. But before 
he realizes his peril, he finds that it is all but impossible to 
leave off its use. 

331. Caution in the Household Use of Opium. Never rub 
any form of opium upon an abraded surface to relieve pain. 
It may be rapidly taken up by the blood. Rubbing the 
gums of teething children with paregoric, putting laudanum 
into a child's aching tooth or ear, giving either preparation 
for "summer complaints," and many other ways of using 
opium, are dangerous practices. Laudanum that has been 
kept in the house for a long time may become much 
stronger than at first, on account of the evaporation of 
the alcohol. 

The so-called soothing sirups and cough or cholera mix- 
tures often given to infants and young children all contain 
more or less of some form of opium. The child is simply 
drugged, and not cured, however "soothing" the effect 
may be. The only safe rule is, never to put opium on the 
list of home remedies. 

332. Chloral. Chloral is a powerful drug, capable, in 
small doses, of producing sleep. This action is probably 
due to its direct effect upon the brain. In full doses it 
depresses the action of the nerve centers of the brain and 
spinal cord. 

Because chloral is known to induce sleep, especially in 
those who suffer from excessive mental strain, or from 
anxiety, or other like cause, it has come, of late years, to 
be used often without a physician's advice. 

333. The Chloral Habit. Like all narcotics, the chloral 
dose must be steadily increased to get the required effect. 
The chloral habit is soon formed, and the person becomes a 
slave to a dangerous drug. Without it, the chloral eater 



244 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

cannot sleep ; with it, his digestion is sadly out of order. 
He surfers from dyspepsia, shortness of breath, and palpi- 
tation of the heart. The only safe rule is, never to touch 
so powerful, uncertain, and dangerous a drug. 

334. Other Powerful Drugs and Narcotics. Chloroform, 
ether, cocaine, and other narcotics should never be used, 
even in the smallest doses, except under medical advice. 
They are dangerous agents at all times, and are used with 
great caution, even by physicians. Persons who get into 
the habit of tampering with such powerful drugs run the 
ever-present risk of killing themselves by an overdose. 

335. Some Other Dangerous Drugs. Since the far- 
reaching epidemic known as influenza, or la grippe, or 
"grip," has made such sad havoc in recent years with the 
lives and health of the people, a new class of powerful 
drugs has come into popular use. These remedies are 
too dangerous and uncertain for household use. 

The drugs sold as " headache " remedies should be let 
severely alone. If a person has a headache, it is better to 
find the cause, so that it may be avoided in future, than to 
continue the wrong living that brings on the headache and 
then try to relieve it by the use of harmful drugs. 

Kola and coca are drugs now widely advertised as harm- 
less and as nerve restorers. This is not true. Any feeling 
of restoration which these drugs may at first produce is a 
delusion that must be paid for afterward by feelings of lassi- 
tude and weakness. Nature alone holds the magic cordials 
which really have power to restore lost strength or vigor. 
Her prescriptions are rest, food, pure air, sunlight, and a 
cheerful mind. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 245 



QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT 

I. What have we learned in preceding chapters to show that all 
parts of the body work together in harmony ? 2. How may the 
nervous system be compared to a telegraph system? 3. Of what 
is nerve tissue made up? 4. Describe nerve cells. 5. Describe 
the structure of nerve fibers. 6. What simple experiment illustrates 
the structure of a nerve? 7. What is the general arrangement of the 
nervous system? 8. Of what does the brain consist? 9. What are 
the most important functions of the brain? 10. What can you say 
about the weight of the brain? 

II. What are the three principal parts of the brain? 12. Describe 
the cerebrum. 13. Describe the cerebellum. 14. What is the medulla 
oblongata? 15. What are cranial nerves? 16. Describe the spinal 
cord. 17. What is reflex action? 18. Give some familiar illustra- 
tions of reflex action. 19. How does reflex action give relief to the 
brain? 20. Describe the spinal nerves. 

21. What is the sympathetic nervous system? 22. State briefly 
how the sympathetic system acts. 23. By what apparently slight 
causes may the health of the nervous system be disturbed? 24. How 
may the brain power be increased? 25. What is the effect of worry 
on the nervous system ? 26. What can be said about the importance 
of sleep? 27. Give some practical points about sleep. 28. What 
are some of the first effects of alcoholic liquors upon the nervous 
system? 29. Show how the power of self-control is weakened by 
strong drink. 30. What are some of the progressive changes in 
character caused by alcoholic liquors? 

31. What are some of the final results of alcoholism? 32. What 
is the moral effect of the alcohol habit? 33. What may be the 
hereditary results of strong drink ? 34. State in a general way the 
effect of tobacco upon the nervous system. 35. What is the effect of 
tobacco upon the physical health of young people ? 36. How may 
)bacco retard the mental development of young students ? 37. What 

opium, and what are some of its various forms? 38. What is 
leant by the opium habit? 39. What is chloral and what is the 
iloral habit? 40. Mention some other dangerous drugs and give 
>me precautions about their use. 



CHAPTER XI 
THE SPECIAL SENSES 

336. Sensation. Everybody knows that the tongue is 
sensitive to taste, the nose to smell, the ear to sound, and 
the eye to light. In other words, each one of our sense 
organs has its own peculiar structure and is sensitive to 
some special agency called a stimulus. These stimuli give 
rise to nerve impulses or sensations which are transmitted 
by nerve fibers to the central nervous system. 

Exactly how feeling, or sensation, leaves its imprint on the 
cells of the brain and rises to consciousness is not known. 

337. General Sensations. Some sensations, or feelings, 
are of a very general character. Thus, we have a feeling of 
hunger or thirst, indicating a need of food or drink. To 
these may be added the sensations of pain, tickling, and 
itching. Other general sensations, such as those of fatigue, 
restlessness, and faintness, spring up within us in some 
mysterious way, sometimes without any obvious cause. 

338. Sensations resulting from an Outward Agency. The 
great majority of sensations, however, result from some out- 
ward stimulus or agency. Thus, if we hear a child cry or a 
bird sing, we have a sensation of sound. If we put a piece 
of sugar on the tongue, hold a rose to the nostrils, or prick 
the skin with a needle, certain sense organs receive the 
impressions. The sensory nerves carry these impressions 
to the brain, and we become conscious of a sensation. 

24 6 



THE SPECIAL SENSES 



247 



339. The Special Senses. There are certain avenues by 
which we get information concerning the world around us. 
In other words, we are provided with a number of special 
senses by means of which information is furnished us regard- 
ing outward forces and objects. 

These special sense organs, or "gateways of knowledge," 
are the skin, the chief organ of touch and temperature ; the 
tongue, the chief organ of taste ; the nose, of smell ; the ear, 
of hearing ; and the eye, of sight. 

340. Touch. The sense of touch is the 
most widely extended of all the senses, 
and perhaps the simplest. It has its 
seat in the skin all over the body and in 
the lining of the mouth and nasal pas- 
sages. By this sense of touch we can 
tell whether a body is hard or soft, hot 
or cold, rough or smooth. 

We have learned about the thousands 
of tiny hillocks called papillae, which form 
rows of very thick ridges on the tips of 
the fingers (Sec. 254). 

Now, besides a tiny artery and vein, finer than the finest 
hair, there is in each papilla the end of a sensory nerve. 
Where the sense of touch is most delicate, the papilla is 
found to contain a little oval bulb called the touch corpuscle. 

NOTE. There is another sense, commonly known as the muscular 
sense, which enables us to judge the weight of different bodies accord- 
ing to the muscular effort required to lift or hold them. This sense 
becomes so highly developed by use that shopkeepers and others wfro 
sell various articles by weight can often tell the weight of a body by 
simply balancing it in their hands. 

The sense of heat and cold, or sensation of temperature, may also 
be regarded as a distinct sense. 




FIG. 151. A Papilla 
of the Skin, with a 
Touch Corpuscle. 
Highly magnified. 



248 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

All parts of the body have not this sense of touch in an 
equal degree. The sense of touch is most delicate in the 
tip of the tongue, the tips of the fingers, and the edges of 
the lips, and least delicate in the middle of the back. 1 

341. Sensations of Heat and Cold. The skin also judges 
to a certain extent of heat and cold. These sensations can 
be felt only by the skin and the lining membrane at the 
entrance to various passages. 

The sensitiveness of the skin to heat and cold varies in 
different parts of the body. The palms of the hands and 
the bends of the joints are sensitive parts. A woman holds 
her iron near her cheek to tell whether or not it is hot. 
Nurses test the heat of the baby's bath by plunging the 
elbow into the water. 

Experiment 68. To illustrate the muscular sense. Take two 
equal iron or lead weights ; heat one and leave the other cold. The 
cold weight will feel the heavier. 

Experiment 69. To test the sense of locality. Ask a person to 
shut his eyes ; touch some part of his body lightly with the point of 
a pin, then remove it, and ask him to indicate the spot touched. 

Experiment 70. Our sensations of heat and cold depend on the 
temperature of the skin. Place one hand in cold and the other in hot 
water, then plunge both in lukewarm water. To the cold hand the luke- 
warm water will appear hot, while to the warm hand it will seem cold. 

1 The sense of touch may be said to belong to every animated being, 
and is one great characteristic of animal life. In many animals the tongue 
is an instrument of touch as well as of taste. Certain animals, in addition 
to the tongue, have special organs of touch, such as the whiskers of the cat 
and the rabbit. These are really parts of the skin. 

There is no other sense so capable of improvement as that of touch. 
The blind learn to read with ease by passing their fingers over raised letters. 
A famous botanist was blind, but was able to distinguish rare plants by the 
fingers and by the tip of the tongue. The silk weavers of Bengal are said 
to be able to distinguish, by the touch alone, twenty different degrees of 
fineness in the unwound cocoons. 



THE SPECIAL SENSES 



249 



342. Taste. The sense of taste is located chiefly in the 
tongue. Its surface is covered with countless numbers of 
tiny hillocks, or papillae, which are abundantly supplied with 
delicate nerve fibers from two great nerve branches leading 
from the brain. 1 
These are the 
nerves of taste. In 
many of the papil- 
lae are peculiar 
structures called 
taste buds, or taste 
goblets, which are 
believed to be con- 
nected with nerve 
fibers. Similar 
taste buds are scat- 
tered over the sur- 
faces of the soft 
palate and the epi- 
glottis. 

It makes a dif- 
ference in the taste 
whether we put a 
substance to be 
tasted on the tip 




FIG. 152. The Tongue. 

, epiglottis ; B, glands at the base of tongue ; C, ton- 
The various kinds of papillae are plainly shown. 



sil. 



Or the back Of the 

tongue. 

Thus, sugar or any other sweet substance is tasted best 
at the tip, while a bitter substance, like quinine, tastes 
more bitter at the back of the tongue. 

1 In certain animals the papillae are very largely developed and give a 
roughness to the tongue. It is this which enables the lion or the tiger to 
strip off the flesh from a bone by simply licking it. 



250 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

The sensations of the tongue are very complex. They 
are really combinations of the sensations of touch and 
taste. Strictly speaking, we can tell by the sense of taste 
only whether anything is bitter, sweet, sour, or salt. We 
detect the flavor of food and drink by the sense of smell. 

Experiment 71. Wipe the tongue dry and lay on its tip a few 
grains of granulated sugar. It is not tasted until it is dissolved. 
Apply a few grains of sugar to the tip, and a few more to the back, 
of the tongue. The sweet taste is more pronounced at the tip. 

Experiment 72. Prepare a solution of sulphate of quinine by dis- 
solving a small quinine pill in a tablespoonful of hot water. It is 
scarcely tasted at the tip, but is tasted immediately on the back part 
of the tongue. 

343. Smell. The sense of smell is located in the mem- 
brane which lines the cavities of the nose. This delicate 
membrane, over which the fibers of 
the olfactory nerves, or the nerves of 
smell, are distributed, is kept con- 
tinually moist by the mucus which 
it secretes. At the beginning of a 
cold in the head it becomes dry and 
swollen, and the sense of smell may 
be greatly lessened. 

It is in the upper parts of the 
nasal cavities that the sense of smell 

FIG. 153. Nasal Cavities, is most *tel Hence, when we 
seen from Below. wish to detect a faint odor we sniff 

1 The sense of smell varies very much in different individuals. Among 
civilized people it is often defective, while in savage races it is notably 
acute. We are told that the South American Indians can detect the 
approach of a stranger, even on a dark night, by their sense of smell, and 
can also tell whether he is white or black. Many animals are more highly 
endowed with this sense than man. Thus, a dog will smell the footsteps 




THE SPECIAL SENSES 



251 



the air sharply. The sense of smell seems to be nature's 
sentinel to guard us against taking improper food into the 
stomach and impure air into the lungs. 

Experiment 73. To show that we often fail to distinguish between 
the sense of taste and that of smell. If we chew some pure roasted 
coffee, it seems to have a distinct taste. Pinch the nose hard while 
chewing it, and there is little 
taste. Coffee has a powerful 
odor but only a feeble taste. 
The same is true of garlic, 
onions, and various spices. 

Experiment 74. Light helps 
the sense of taste. Shut the 
eyes, and palatable foods taste 
insipid. Pinch the nose, close 
the eyes, and see how palatable 
one half of a teaspoonful of 
cod-liver oil becomes. 

Experiment 75. Close the 
nostrils, shut the eyes, and 
attempt to distinguish by taste 
alone between a slice of an 
apple and one of a potato. 




FIG. 154. Distribution of Nerves over 
the Interior of the Nostrils. (Outer 
wall.) 

A, branches of the nerves of smell ; B, nerves 
of touch to the nostrils ; E, F, G, nerves 
to the palate springing from a ganglion at 
C', H, a branch of the facial nerve, from 
which other branches, D, /, and /, spring 
to be distributed to the nostrils. 



344. The Sense of Hear- 
ing. We come now to a 
special sense, which does 
not tell us what is going 
on in the outer world by 
actual contact, as in touch or taste, nor by particles of 
matter falling upon the ends of nerves, as in the sense 

of his master amid those of a hundred other people, and can track him for 
miles, although he has been for hours out of sight. Hounds track the 
fox or the deer by the sense of smell. Dogfish find their prey by the sense 
of smell rather than by sight. 



252 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



of smell. In the sense of hearing, impressions are made upon 
the nerves by wavelike vibrations in the surrounding air. 

All sounds are caused by the vibration of something in 
the atmosphere. The object struck sends out these vibra- 
tions to the surrounding 
air, which carries forward 
a series of waves in all 
directions. 1 

345. The Organ of Hear- 
ing. The air waves are 
received, and the impres- 
sion made by them is sent 
to the brain, by a special 
apparatus, called the organ 
of hearing. It is lodged in 
the temporal bone, one of 
the thick, inner bones which 
form the base of the skull. 
The ear, the organ of 
hearing, is far more com- 
plicated than any of the organs of sense yet described. It 
is second only in importance to the eye, the organ of sight. 
The ear is divided into three parts, the outer, the middle, 
and the inner ear. 

346. The Outer Ear. The outer ear consists of a plate 
of gristle, shaped somewhat like a shell, known as the pinna, 

1 We shall understand these air waves better if we throw a stone into a 
pool of water and watch the result. We see a series of tiny circular ripples 
gradually spread themselves over the surface of the water from the spot 
where the stone fell. This exactly represents the waves of sound caused 
by the vibration of bodies in the air. These air waves travel with wonder- 
ful rapidity. The usual velocity of sound is about eleven hundred feet 
a second. 




FIG. 155. The Pinna, or Auricle. 



THE SPECIAL SENSES 253 

or auricle, and of a tube about an inch long, called the audi- 
tory canal. 

The auricle is used as a kind of ear trumpet to gather up 
the sound waves. Many animals are able to move the 
large external ear in the direction of the sound. Thus, the 
horse and the rabbit prick up their ears when they hear a 
noise, the better to judge of the direction of sounds. 

The auditory canal is a passage in the solid portion of the 
temporal bone. It is lined by skin on which there are fine 
hairs, and a set of glands secreting earwax, which serves 
to moisten the parts, catch particles of dust, and keep 
away small insects. 

The inner end of the auditory canal is closed by a mem- 
brane stretched tightly across it. It resembles the parch- 
ment stretched across the end of a drum, and is known as 
the tympanic membrane, or drum membrane. 
It is thin and elastic, but may be broken 
by a blow, or by pushing some sharp or 
hard substance into the ear. 

347. The Middle Ear. The middle ear 
is a small, drumlike cavity, 
full of air, in the temporal 
bone. This cavity is 

known as the drum of the 

_ . FIG. 156. A Cast 

ear, or tympanum. On the of the External Audi- 
inner wall of this air cham- tory Canal. (Poste- 
ber are two small openings, nor view> ) 
the "oval window" and the "round window," both of which 
are closed by membranes. The most curious feature of the 
middle ear is a string of three tiny bones which stretch across 
it. These bones are called from their shape the hammer, or 
malleus ; the anvil, or incus ; and the stirrup, or stapes. 




254 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

The hammer bone is fastened by its long handle to the 
drum membrane. The round head of the hammer bone 
fits into the anvil bone. Next to the anvil is the stirrup 
bone, which fits into the little oval window in the opposite 
wall of the chamber or drum. 

348. The Eustachian Tube. In the floor of the tym- 
panic cavity is. the opening of a passage called the Eusta- 
chian tube. This tube is about an inch and a half long, and 
leads into the back part of the throat. It allows air from 
the throat to enter the drum, and serves 
to keep the air on both sides of it at 
equal pressure (Fig. 69). 

During a severe cold in the head, or 
a sore throat, the lining of the tube may 
be inflamed and swollen. This gives 
FIG. 157. The Bones a stuffed feeling in the ears, and the 
of the Ear. hearing may be slightly impaired. As 




i, malleus, or hammer; tne co \^ pas ses off, this peculiar feeling 

2, incus, or anvil; 3, . ' 

stapes, or stirrup. m the ears usually disappears. 

Experiment 76. To produce vibration of the tympanic membrane 
and the little ear bones. Shut the mouth and pinch the nose tightly. 
Try to force air through the nose. The air dilates the Eustachian 
tube and is forced into the ear drum. The distinct crackle, or click- 
ing sound, is due to the movement of the ear bones and the tympanic 
membrane. 

349. The Inner Ear. The inner ear is a bony case filled 
with liquid in which float the delicate ends of the nerve of 
hearing. It consists of three distinct portions, the vesti- 
bule, the semicircular canals, and the cochlea, or snail's shell. 
It is enough for us to remember that these are winding 
channels and spiral tubes hollowed out in the solid bone. 
The whole system of passages is known as the labyrinth. 



THE SPECIAL SENSES 



255 



It is important to remember that there is a continuous 
connection between all the passages of the inner ear, and 
that all the winding tubes and chambers inclose and pro- 
tect a delicate bag of membrane of exactly the same shape 
as themselves. 

350. The Au- 
ditory Nerve. 
The auditory 
nerve, or nerve of 
hearing, passes 
to the brain, 
through a little 
hole in the solid 
bone of the skull, 
from the inner 
ear, where its 
nerve fibers 

branch round FIG. 158. General View of the Organ of Hearing. 

tne Sense Cells A, pinna; J5, cavity of the concha, showing the openings 
On the inner ^ a S reat num ber of sebaceous glands ; C, external audi- 
tory meatus; D, tympanic membrane ; F, incus; /f,mal- 

Walls of the 1m- leus;^, handle of malleus applied to the internal surface 

in 2" membrane ^ membrana tympani; L, tensor tympani muscle; 

between M and K is the tympanic cavity ; N, Eusta- 

351. HOW We chian tube ; O, P, semicircular canals ; /?, internal audi- 
TT Iff TIG tory canal; S, large nerve given off from the facial 

nerve; T, facial and auditory nerves. 

learn a few of 

the simplest principles about this wonderful mechanism of 
the ear. A bell is rung or a gun fired. The vibration is 
communicated to the atmosphere around it, and passes away 
in air waves from the sounding body, as the waves ripple 
the surface of a pond after a stone has been thrown in. 

The air waves pass into the outer ear and strike upon 
the stretched membrane of the drum, causing it to vibrate. 




2 5 6 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



At every vibration of the membrane the head of the ham- 
mer bone strikes upon the anvil bone, drives it forward, 
and pushes the foot plate of the stirrup bone in and out of 
the oval window on the inner wall of the chamber. 

The waves thus formed in the watery fluid in the inner 
ear strike against the membranous bag, and so arouse a 
nervous impulse in the fibers of the auditory nerve. The 

nerve of hearing transmits the 
auditory impulses from the 
sense cells to the seat of sen- 
sation in the brain, where they 
are interpreted as sounds. 

352. Hints on the Care of 
the Ear. The ear canal should 
never be rudely or hastily 
washed out. The utmost gen- 
tleness in washing out the ear 

FIG. 159. Bony internal Ear of is all that is necessary for clean- 
liness. The ears should never 
.be pulled or boxed. Even a 
slight blow has resulted in 
serious trouble. 

Never use earpicks, ear 
spoons, the ends of pencils or 
penholders, pins, hairpins, toothpicks, towel corners, etc., 
to pick, scratch, or cleanse the ear canal. It is a foolish, 
needless, and dangerous practice. 

Let the earwax take care of itself. The skin of the ear 
grows outward, and the extra wax and dust will be naturally 
carried out if let alone. Never drop sweet oil, glycerin, 
or other fluids into the ear with the idea that it is made 
cleaner by them. They often cause irritation. 




the Right Side. 

Magnified ; the upper figure of the 
natural size. 

A, oval window; B, C, D, semicircular 
canals ; * represents the bulging part 
of each canal ; E, F, G, cochlea ; H, 
round window. 



THE SPECIAL SENSES 



257 



VESTIBULE WITH OPENINGS 
JOF SEMICIRCULAR CANALS 



Cotton wads may be put into the ears to shield them from 
a cold wind, or may be worn while one is swimming or diving, 
to keep the water out. Diving into deep water or bathing 
in the breakers may injure the ears if not thus protected. 

353. Additional Suggestions on the Care of the Ears. We 
should never shout suddenly in a person's ear. The ear is 
not prepared for the shock, and permanent injury has occa- 
sionally resulted. 
If theEustachian 
tube is closed 
for the time, a 
sudden explo- 
sion, the noise of 
a gun or cannon, 
may burst the 
drumhead. 
Soldiers during 
heavy cannonad- 
ing open the 
mouth to allow 
an equal tension of air on both sides of the membrane. 

Flies, ants, and other insects sometimes crawl into the 
ear. This may cause some pain and fright, and perhaps 
lead to vomiting and even convulsions in the case of chil- 
dren. A lighted lamp put at the entrance of the ear will 
often coax insects to crawl out towards the light. The ear 
may be syringed out with a little warm water. Drop in a 
little sirup, melted vaseline, or sweet oil. 

Cold water should never be used in the ears or nostrils 
if it can be helped. Use only tepid water. Do not go to 
sleep with the head in any position that may expose the 
ears to a draught of cold or damp air. 




= EUSTACHIAN TUBE 



FIG. 160. BLACKBOARD SKETCH. 
Diagram of the Middle and Internal Ear. 



258 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

When one suffers from severe or continued earache it is 
always best to consult a physician. In the meantime some 
relief may be obtained by holding a hot sand bag or hot- 
water bottle to the ear. 

354. Effect of Alcohol and Tobacco upon Hearing. Strong 
drink tends to inflame first the lining membrane of the 
throat and then that of the Eustachian tube. The inflam- 
mation may spread after a time to the delicate apparatus 
of the inner ear. 

The immoderate use of tobacco may injure the sense of 
hearing. The irritating smoke, filling the deeper parts of 
the nose and throat, easily finds its way through the Eusta- 
chian tube and tends to irritate the delicate parts of the 
middle ear. 

355. The Wonderful Sense of Sight. Sight is the highest 
and most perfect of all our senses. By means of it we may 
follow the vessel sailing along on the dim horizon, and the 
next instant we may be reading the fine print of a newspaper. 
By means of this sense we recognize the form, size, color, 
and distance of thousands of different objects in nature. 

The sense of sight is so woven into the countless acts of 
our everyday affairs that we scarcely appreciate this mar- 
velous gift, so essential, not only to the simplest matters 
of comfort, but also to the culture of the mind and the 
higher forms of pleasure. 

356. The Eye. The eye, the outer instrument of sight, 
is a most beautiful piece of mechanism. This little organ, 
only about an inch in diameter, is in reality one of the 
greatest wonders in nature. 

The eyeball is lodged in a bowl-shaped cavity made up 
of seven of the bones of the head and face. This eye 
socket is well protected on its edges by the dense and 



THE SPECIAL SENSES 



259 



strong bones of the head, and is padded with fat, which acts 
as a soft elastic cushion for the eyeball. 

357. The Coats of the Eye. The walls of the eyeball are 
made up of three distinct coats, or coverings. 

The outer covering, or sclerotic, is one of the toughest and 
strongest membranes in the body, and serves as a kind of 



SUPERIOR RECTUS 



--CILIARY PROCESSES 
SUSPENSORY LIGAMENT 



SUSPENSORY LIGAMENT 
CILIARY PROCESSES 




CHOROID 



OPTIC NERVE 



CHOROID 



-INFERIOR RECTUS 

FIG. 161. BLACKBOARD SKETCH. 
Section of the Human Eye. 



elastic framework for the eye, and protects the delicate 
structures within. That part of it which is visible is known 
as the white of the eye. 



260 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

This outer coat of the eyeball gives place in the front 
to a transparent circular plate, just as in a watch the gold 
or silver case gives place to a glass crystal over the face. 
This transparent plate, the cornea, forms a kind of rounded 
bay window for the eye, and is often spoken of as the 
window of the eye. 

The second coat, or ckoroid, is much more delicate in 
structure and consists almost entirely of blood vessels and 
nerves. It is lined with a thick, black coating designed to 
absorb the surplus rays of light, which would otherwise 
cause blurred or confused vision. In many animals the 
choroid is rich with colors; hence the green sheen of a 
cat's eye. 

358. The Retina. The retina, meaning a net, the inner- 
most coat of the eyeball, is an extremely delicate and sen- 
sitive screen upon which the image is formed. It is a net 
of fibers proceeding from the optic nerve and spread out 
over the inner surface of the eye. 

359. The Iris and Pupil. To get a clear idea of the 
inner parts of the eye, let us imagine an eyeball cut through 
the middle from above downwards. Let us now start in 
front and go backwards (Fig. 161). 

We shall first see the cornea, which has just been described. 

We now reach a space called the front chamber of the 
eye. In this chamber, and behind the cornea, is hung a 
round curtain, the iris, meaning rainbow. It is pierced by 
a hole through its center for the admission of light. This 
is called the pupil, which appears as if it were a black spot. 
It is this curtain which gives the color to the eye. The 
iris has muscular fibers which contract and relax, and thus 
make the pupil larger or smaller, according as the light is 
bright or dull. 



THE SPECIAL SENSES 



26l 



When the light is very strong and brilliant the iris spreads 
its curtain farther over the pupil in order to shut out some 
of the rays. When the light is faint the curtain is drawn 
back, making the pupil larger in order to admit as many 
rays of light as possible. 

The black appearance of the pupil is due to the thick 
black coating which lines the inside of the choroid and pre- 
vents all light from passing through the wall of the eyeball. 
It is like looking through a small window into a dark room. 




FIG. 162. 



Diagram showing the Change in the Lens during 
Accommodation. 



On the right the lens is arranged for distant vision, the ciliary muscle is relaxed, 
and the ligament D is tense, so flattening by its compression the front of the 
lens C; on the left the muscle A is acting, and this relaxes the ligament and 
allows the lens B to become more convex, and so fitted for the vision of 
near objects. 

360. The Crystalline Lens. Just behind the iris is a clear, 
transparent, jellylike body, called the crystalline lens. It is 
convex, or rounded, both back and front, and is about one 
third of an inch in diameter. It is shut up in a kind of 
transparent bag and is held in its place by a number of 
little bands. The crystalline lens separates the front 
chamber of the eye from the back chamber. 

The front chamber is filled with a clear, watery fluid 
called the aqueous, or watery, humor. This fluid keeps the 



262 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

cornea uniformly convex and allows the curtain with the 
hole in it the iris to float and move at freedom. The 
back chamber contains a jelly like fluid called the vitreous, or 
glassy, humor. 

361. The Course of the Rays of Light in the Eye. Let 
us now master a few points about the mechanism of vision. 
Let us trace the course of the rays of light going from any 
luminous body a lighted candle, for example through 
the different parts of the eye. Imagine the candle to be 
placed about ten inches in front of the eye. 

Some of the rays fall on the outer coat, or the white, 
of the eye, and, being turned back or reflected, take no 
part in vision. The more central rays fall upon the cornea. 
Some of these are reflected, giving .to the surface of the eye 
its beautiful, glistening appearance. 

Now, if the rays of light passed directly to the retina, 
they would pass in parallel lines and produce the impres- 
sion of light, but everything would be dim and confused. 
Therefore it is necessary that the rays coming from any 
object should be brought together (converged) by being 
bent (refracted). That is, they must be refracted and 
brought to a focus. 

362. The Work done by the Crystalline Lens. The rays 
of light are refracted and brought to a focus to a certain 
extent by the cornea and the fluids, or humors, of the 
eye, but mainly by the crystalline lens. It is thus the duty 
of the crystalline lens to bring the rays of light nearer 
together as they pass through it, and to bring them to a 
focus on the retina. 

It is a familiar fact in the use of optical instruments that 
they must be differently adjusted for objects at different 
distances. The boy changes the focus of his spyglass by 



THE SPECIAL SENSES 



263 



pulling its tubes in or out. When we look from a distant 
to a near object with an opera glass, we change the focus 
by turning the adjusting screw. 

A tiny muscle called the ciliary, or hairlike, muscle does 
for the eye what the adjusting screw does for the opera 
glass. As it contracts and relaxes, the elastic lens, held 
in place by a delicate membrane, becomes more rounded 
or flatter, ac- 
cording as we 
may wish to look 
at nearer or more 
distant objects. 

In other words, ^ H/^f^ OBJECT 

our eyes adjust, 
or accommodate, 
themselves to 
the varying dis- 
tances of objects, 
just as the photographer pushes in or out the lens of his 
camera so as to bring it nearer to or farther from the 
surface which receives the image (Fig. 162). 




EYE 



FIG. 163. BLACKBOARD SKETCH. 

Diagram illustrating the Manner in which the Image 
of an Object is inverted on the Retina. 



Experiment 77. To illustrate accommodation. Standing near a 
source of light, close one eye and hold up both forefingers not quite 
in a line, keeping one finger about six or seven inches from one eye, 
and the other forefinger about sixteen or eighteen inches from the 
other eye. Look at the near finger ; a distinct image is obtained of 
it, while the far one is blurred or indistinct. Look at the far image ; it 
becomes distinct, while the near one becomes blurred. Observe that in 
accommodating for the near object one is conscious of a distinct effort. 

363. Formation of an Image on the Retina. The rays of 
light are thus brought to a focus on the sensitive retina. 
The iris has regulated with wonderful skill the proper 



264 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

amount of light ; and the lens, with the greatest exactness, 
has focused the rays on the retina. The dark surface of 
the middle coat acts to absorb the excess of light, the 
entrance of which would disturb accurate vision. 

As a result, an exact but inverted image is formed on the 
retina. The impression is carried to the brain by the fibers 
of the optic nerve, which are spread out on this wonderfully 
sensitive membrane. 

Experiment 78. To show the blind spoil The retina is not 
sensitive where the optic nerve enters the eyeball. This is called 
the " blind spot." Put two ink bottles, about two feet apart, on a 
table covered with white paper. Close the left eye and fix the right 
steadily on the left-hand inkstand, gradually varying the distance from 
the eye to the ink bottle. At a certain distance the right-hand bottle 
will disappear, but nearer or farther than that it will be plainly seen. 

364. The Muscles of the Eye. The eyeball is rolled and 
moved about by six muscles. They spring from the back 
part of the bony orbits and are fastened to the front part of 
the eyeball by means of tendons. Four of these muscles 
(the recti, or straight, muscles) move the eye up or down, 
and to the right or left. The other two (the oblique) are 
so fastened that they rotate the eyeball in one direction 
or another. If the eye muscles are not properly balanced 
in their action, squinting results. 

1 The location of the blind spot may be shown in the following simple 
manner. The left eye being shut, let the right eye be fixed on the cross 
bek>Tv. When the book is held at arm's length both cross and round spot 



will be visible ; but if the book be brought to about eight inches from the 
eye, the gaze being kept steadily upon the cross, the round spot will at first 
disappear, but as the book is brought still nearer both cross and round spot 
will again be seen. 



THE SPECIAL SENSES 



265 



365. The Eyelids and Eyebrows. The eyes are protected 
and kept clean by their eyelids, eyelashes, and eyebrows. 

The eyelids are thin, flexible covers, or shutters, which 
protect the front of the eyeballs. They are composed on 
the outside of skin, which is stiffened at the margin by thin 
plates of gristle. They are lined on the inner side with 
a very delicate mucous membrane called the conjunctiva, 




FIG. 164. Muscles of the Eyeball. 

A, attachment of tendon connected with the four recti muscles ; B, external 
rectus, divided and turned downward, to expose the internal rectus ; C, in- 
ferior rectus ; Z>, internal rectus ; , superior rectus ; P, superior oblique ; 
//, pulley and reflected portion of the superior oblique ; K, inferior oblique ; 
L and M, portions of the muscle which raises the upper eyelid; to the right 
of D and to left on same line are seen cut ends of the optic nerve. 

because it is also joined to the eyeball by a fold. It pours 
out fluid to prevent friction between the surfaces. This 
fluid, together with the tears, which are constantly flowing, 
keeps the cornea moist and free from dust. 

The edges of the eyelids are provided with a fringe of 
fine hairs, the eyelashes, which shade the eye and shield it 
from dust. 



266 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



The eyebrows form a protecting and shading ridge over 
the eyes, while the thick fringe of hairs, arranged some- 
what like the straw on a thatched roof, prevents the per- 
spiration from rolling into the eyes as it trickles down the 

forehead. 

366. The Tears. 
Nature provides a 
special fluid to pro- 
tect the eye. This 
fluid is call ed the 
tears. 

The tear apparatus 
consists of the gland 
for secreting a thin, 
watery fluid, the 
tears, and the pas- 
sages for draining 
them off. The tears 
moisten the surface 
of the eye whenever 
the lids wink, and 
wash away the par- 
ticles of dust. 

The tears are 
carried off by two 
fine tubes, one in the 
upper and one in the 
lower lid, which unite 
and form a sac from which the tear duct leads into the nose. 
The ordinary flow of tears is thus drained off. 

Emotion may excite an excessive flow which the canals 
cannot carry off. The tears then overflow and run down 




FIG. 165. The Relative Position of the 
Lachrymal Apparatus and the Eyelids. 

A and C, lachrymal canals; B, lachrymal sac; 
Z>, small muscle whfch serves to compress the 
lachrymal sac; , lining membrane of the upper 
and lower eyelids; F, glands upon the inner 
surface of the eyelids, with ducts opening upon 
the free margins of the eyelids ; ff, great open- 
ing, or antrum, of the upper jawbone. The oil 
glands of the nose are plainly shown. 



THE SPECIAL SENSES 



267 



the cheeks. This is called crying or weeping. The tears 
can be made to flow in a reflex way by almost any violent 
stimulation, as, for example, by irritation of the nasal pas- 
sages by pepper. 

367. Color Blindness. The inability to distinguish between 
certain colors is called color blindness. It is sometimes pro- 
duced by sickness, but it may exist at birth and is often 
hereditary. It is in- 
curable. 

This defect of sight 
is quite common. Out 
of the many thousands 
that have been exam- 
ined, it is found that 
four men out of every 
hundred are lacking 
in the power to dis- 
tinguish between cer- 
tain colors. Total 
color blindness is very 
rare. 

A person who is 
color blind cannot 
match colors. He may 
pick up red, brown, 
and orange wools and 
match them with 
green of different shades. A person may be color blind and 
not know it until the defect is accidentally revealed. 

This defect of vision is a matter of the utmost prac- 
tical importance to those employed on electric and steam 
railways, vessels, and other places where colored signals 




FIG. 1 66. The Relative Position of the 
Lachrymal Apparatus, the Eyeball, and 
the Eyelids. 

A, lachrymal canals, with the minute orifices 
represented as two black dots to the right; 
B, tendon attached to a muscle which sur- 
rounds the circumference of the orbit and eye- 
lids ; under B is seen the lachrymal sac. The 
minute openings of the Meibomian glands are 
seen on the free margins of the eyelids. Below 
A is seen a small conical elevation, with black 
dots (the lachrymal papilla, or caruncle). 



268 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



are used. The most common forms of color blindness are 
those in which one fails to distinguish red from green. 

368. Near Sight. Near sight is a common defect of 
vision. In the healthy eye the rays of light are brought 
to a focus on the retina. But in some eyes the image is 
blurred ; the outer coat bulges backward, making the eye- 
ball a little too long, thus 
bringing the rays of light to 
a focus before they reach the 
retina. A person is said to 
be nearsighted because he 
can see near objects better 
than those at a distance. 

Nearsightedness may exist 
at birth and is often heredi- 
tary. It is sometimes ac- 
quired by overstraining the 
eyes in reading too fine print, 
by reading by a dim or im- 
perfect light, and in many 
other ways. This defect is 
common with those who use 




FIG. 167. 



Lachrymal Gland and 
Ducts. 



A, lachrymal gland, the size of a small 
almond, lodged in the upper and outer 

part of the orbit ; B, lachrymal ducts, their eyes much in reading, 

which form a row of openings into the 
conjunctival fold. 



writing, and study. Sailors, 
farmers, and others who 
work outdoors are rarely nearsighted. 

There has been found to be a steady increase of near- 
sightedness, especially among school children. This defect 
of vision calls for skillful advice and careful treatment. 

369. Long or Far Sight. A farsighted person is so 
called because he can see distant objects more easily than 
those near by. In a long-sighted person the eyeball is too 



THE SPECIAL SENSES 



269 



short and the retina lies too near the lens. In order to 
see near objects the little ciliary muscle must be put to 
a severe strain to make 
the lens convex enough. 
Thus it happens that the 
eye of a long-sighted per- 
son is usually under a 
strain when working. 




FIG. 1 68. Diagram illustrating the 
Nearsighted Eye. 

The image P' of a distant point P falls in front 
of the retina even without accommodation. 
By means of a concave lens (Z,) the image may 
be made to fall on the retina (dotted lines). To 
save space P is placed much too near the eye. 



This leads to headache 

and fatigue. In child- 

hood this strain may pass 

unnoticed for a time, but 

sooner or later it shows 

itself by a sense of 

fatigue, dizziness, and blurred and indistinct vision. 

370. How the Eyes may be abused in Reading. The 

habit of reading the daily papers, with their blurred and 

indistinct type, in a steam or electric car or in a carriage, 

is a severe strain on the eyes. The small type, poor paper, 

and presswork of the 
many cheap editions of 
popular books are very 
frequent causes of weak 
and diseased eyes. It is 
* dangerous practice to 




FIG. 



too. Diagram illustrating the 

Farsighted Eye. 

The image /"of a point P falls behind the retina read in bed at night, Or 

in the unaccommodated eye. By means of a whi j e j Qn & gofa 

convex lens (L) it may be focused on the retina J 

without accommodation (dotted lines). To Or lounge in a darkened 
save space Pis placed much too near the eye. ^ Q Quter 



cles of the eyeball are put to a great deal of strain. 

371. Proper Light and Good Eyesight. The direction from 
which the light comes is an important matter. The worst 



2/0 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 




direction of all is that from the front. The direct light 
should fall upon the print from above and from the left 
side. The more nearly an artificial light resembles mel- 
low daylight, the better. A flickering light is always bad. 

Artificial light should be 
regulated by shades and 
globes. Recently invented 
round and hollow burners 
used with kerosene oil give 
an excellent light. 

Using the eyes at dusk, 
or by artificial light in the 
early morning, may lead to 
serious disorders of vision. 
The light reflected from 
snow is a common source 
of injury to the eyes. The 
eyes of infants should not 
be exposed to the glare of 
electric lights or to the direct rays of the sun. 

372. Importance of Rest for the Eyes. After reading 
steadily for some time we should rest the eyes by looking 
at some distant object, even if only for a few moments. 
A person should never read, write, sew, or otherwise use 
the eyes when they tingle or smart, or when the sight is 
dim or blurred. The eyes are weary and need a rest. 

The eyes are often weak after certain sicknesses. A 
long rest should be given them after an attack of measles 
or scarlet fever. 

373. Additional Hints for taking care of the Eyes. The 
eyes should never be rubbed, particularly when they have 
been irritated by some foreign substance. The sooner it 



FIG. 170. 

Showing the attachment of the recti, or 
straight muscles to the eyeball, also 
the distribution of arteries upon the 
outer coat of the eye. 






THE SPECIAL SENSES 271 

is removed, the better. Rubbing the eyes or pulling the 
eyelids only makes a bad matter worse. When the eyes 
smart or tingle, after going to bed, and are bloodshot on 
getting up the next morning, it is safe to conclude that 
they have been irritated or overtaxed, and need rest. Rid- 
ing against the wind, especially on a bicycle or in an auto- 
mobile, is often hurtful, at least for eyes that are inclined 
to weakness or any form of inflammation. 

It is not a wise economy to tamper with one's eyes when 
they are ailing. Better to do nothing than do the wrong 
thing. If a few days of 
rest do not give relief, a 
good oculist should be 
consulted at once. FlG . I7I . The Actual S i ze of the 

374. Effect Of Alcohol Test Type, which should be seen 
OH Sight. The govern- by the Normal Eye at a Distance 

of Twenty Feet. 

ment coast survey every 

summer employs several small companies of men in meas- 
uring distances from high points along the coast. It has 
been found by experience that whenever these men indulge 
in strong drink their work is often impaired and faulty. 
They fail to signal correctly or to be accurate in their 
own records. 

375. Effect of Tobacco on Sight. A personal examination, 
conducted by Dr. Francis Dowling, of about ten per cent 
of the employees of a Cincinnati factory employing fifteen 
hundred men showed many of the men who used tobacco, 
either chewing or smoking, to be suffering from a gradual 
failure of vision. With one exception, the women em- 
ployees of the same factory who were examined by him 
gave no evidence of tobacco poisoning as manifested by 
troubles of vision. 



2/2 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT 

I. What is meant by a stimulus? 2. What can be said about 
general sensations? Illustrate. 3. From what do most sensations 
result? Illustrate. 4. What are the special senses? 5. What are 
the special sense organs ? 6. Describe the sense of touch. 7. What 
can you say about sensations of heat and cold? 8. Describe in 
full the sense of taste. 9. Where is the sense of smell located? 
10. What general difference is there between the sense of hearing 
and that of touch, taste, or smell? 

II. What is the organ of hearing, and what are its three general 
parts ? 12. Describe the outer ear. 13. What is the tympanic mem- 
brane? 14. Describe the middle ear. 15. Give some details about 
the bones of the ear. 16. What is the Eustachian tube ? 17. What 
is the inner ear? 18. Describe the three parts of the inner ear. 
19. Describe the auditory nerve. 20. Explain in some detail how we 
hear. 

21. Give some practical points about the care of the ears. 22. What 
is the general effect of alcohol and tobacco upon hearing ? 23. What 
may be said in a general way about the sense of sight? 24. What is 
the eye, and where is the eyeball lodged? 25. Describe the coats of 
the eye. 26. What is the retina ? 27. Describe the iris and the pupil. 
28. What is the crystalline lens ? 29. What are the two fluids, or 
humors, of the eye ? 30. Describe the work done by the crystalline 
lens. 

31. Describe in some detail the mechanism of vision. 32. How is 
the image formed on the retina? 33. Describe the muscles of the 
eye, and explain their action. 34. Describe the eyelids, and explain 
how they are kept moist. 35. What are the eyelashes and the eye- 
brows ? 36. What are the tears, and of what does the tear apparatus 
consist? 37. What is color blindness? 38. What is meant by near 
sight? 39. Explain what is meant by long or far sight. 40. How 
may the eyes be abused? 

41. What is the relation of proper light to good eyesight ? 42. Why 
is rest of great importance to the eyes? 43. Give some practical 
hints about taking care of the eyes. 44. What is the general effect 
of alcohol on sight? 45. How may tobacco affect the sight? 



CHAPTER XII 
THE THROAT AND THE VOICE 

376. The Throat. The throat is the common highway, as 
it were, through which food goes to the stomach and air to 
the lungs. 

We have already learned something of the food passages 
(Chapter VI) and the air passages (Chapter VIII), and 
we are familiar with the hard palate, the soft palate, the 
uvula, and the tonsils (Figs. 63 and 69). 

377. The Pharynx. The only way to get a proper idea 
of the throat is to look into a friend's mouth. First, let 
the person hold his mouth wide open, facing a good 
light. Hold the tongue down with the handle of a spoon 
(Fig. 63). 

On looking directly into the back of the mouth we see 
the beginning of a passage called the pharynx, which is com- 
mon to the two highways, or passages by which air and 
food are taken into the body. If we look at the top, we 
see the air passage which leads to the nose. The air tract 
at the top of the pharynx has two outlets, the mouth and 
the nose. 

Now, if we pull the tongue firmly forward, a little curved 
ridge is sometimes seen behind it. This is the epiglottis, 
which, as we already know, is the trapdoor that shuts down, 
like the lid of a box, over the top of the air passage, or 
windpipe (Sec. 153). 

273 



2/4 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



The part of the throat directly opposite the line of vision, 
as we have learned, is the back wall of the pharynx, which 
continues downward to form the gullet, or food passage. 
The pharynx runs up to the base of the skull behind, 
and ends in a kind of vaulted roof 
bent somewhat like a crooked 
forefinger. 

Experiment 79. Study the general 
construction of the throat by the help 
of a hand mirror. Also examine the 
throat of some friend. 

Experiment 80. To show the con- 
struction of the vocal organs. Secure 
and examine the windpipe of a sheep 
or a calf. It differs somewhat from 
the vocal organs of the human body, 
but it will enable us to recognize the dif- 
ferent parts which have been described. 
A suitable specimen can easily be ob- 
tained from a butcher. 



Diagram of a Sectional View 
of Nasal and Throat Pas- 
sages. 

C, nasal cavities; 7", tongue; 
L, lower jaw ; Jbf, mouth ; U, 




posed as it is to overheated and 
unwholesome air, the irritating 
dust of the street and the work- 
shop, and extremes of heat and 
cold, it is not strange that the 
delicate lining of the throat often 
becomes inflamed. The result is 

an ailment which is commonly called " sore throat." Almost 

everybody has at times suffered from it. 

Persons subject to sore throat should take great pains 

to wear proper underclothing. Daily baths are excellent 



THE THROAT AND THE VOICE 



275 



tonics to the skin, and thus serve indirectly to harden one 
who is liable to throat ailments even in ordinary changes 
in the weather. 

Muffling the neck in scarfs, furs, and wraps is not a 

good plan, it only increases the liability to catch cold, 

except, perhaps, during the 

coldest weather or during unusual 

exposure to cold. 

379. The Larynx. As we have 
been told in a preceding section, 
the boxlike top of the windpipe is 
called the larynx, meaning top of 
the windpipe (Sec. 222). 

The sides of this box are made 
of two flat pieces of cartilage 
shaped like a shield and known 
as the thyroid cartilage. The 
edges unite in front and project 
to form " Adam's apple," which 




is easily felt and is plainly to be 



FIG. 173. Cartilages and Liga- 
ments of the Larynx. (Front 
view.) 

seen on most lean people, espe- ^ hyoidbone . ffj membrane at . 

cially spare men (Exp. 33, p. 109). 

The thyroid cartilage shelters the 

delicate and movable structure 

within and shields it from injury 

from without. 

The epiglottis is attached to the 
inner and upper part of this carti- 
lage. Just below is a ring-shaped 
cartilage called the cricoid. It is broad behind, quite narrow 
in front, much like a seal ring. This is easily detected 
under the skin, a little below "Adam's apple." 



tached to hyoid bone and the 
shield-shaped cartilage below 
(thyroid); edges of this shield- 
shaped , cartilage unite at C 
(Adam's apple is the V-shaped 
groove on a line with B and C) ; 
D, membrane between the 
shield-shaped cartilage and the 
signet-ring cartilage below; E y 
cricoid, or signet-ring, cartilage ; 
f, upper ring of the windpipe. 



2 7 6 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



Two slender, ladle-shaped cartilages are placed on the 
top of the back part of the cricoid. They work with a 
ball-and-socket joint and have tiny muscles which regulate 
r-^v their movements with the utmost 

accuracy. 

380. The Vocal Cords. From 
each of the two ladle-shaped carti- 
lages a band of elastic tissue passes 
forward and is joined to the inner 
and front part of the shieldlike 
cartilage towards its lower edge. 
These two bands, called the vocal 
cords, are narrow strips of firm, 
fibrous material with a chinklike 
opening between them called the 
glottis, meaning the mouthpiece of 
a flute. These cords are the real 

FIG. 174. Cartilages and . 

Ligaments of the Larynx. Organ of VO1C6. 

(Posterior view.) All the air which goes out of or 

A, epiglottis ; B, thyroid carti- into the lungS must gO through the 
kge: C, ladle-shaped carti- , . ,_,. , 

kge; , cricoid cartilage; glottis. There are muscles and 

F, upper ring of the wind- cartilages which serve to tighten 

or loosen these cords. During 

ordinary breathing the vocal cords are widely separated. 

381. How the Voice is produced. If the air is driven out 
of the lungs by an act of expiration when the cords are 
in a state of tension, they vibrate and produce the sound 
called the voice. 

The different musical sounds produced in singing depend 
upon the length and the varying degree of tension of the 
vocal cords. The compass of the voice depends upon the 
extent to which the variations can take place. A practiced 




THE THROAT AND THE VOICE 



277 



singer can, at will, give the requisite tension for the pro- 
duction of any particular note. 

The quality of a voice depends chiefly upon the shape 
of the larynx and of the other air passages above it. In 
women and children the larynx is 
smaller, and the vocal cords shorter, 
than in men ; consequently their voices 
have a higher pitch. The larger the 
larynx and the longer the cords, the 
deeper the voice. 

Voice may exist without speech, as 
in many animals. Speech is the voice 
modified by the throat, teeth, palate, 
nose, tongue, and lips. 

NOTE. The limitations of a text-book 
on physiology for elementary schools do not 
permit so full a description of the voice as 
the subject deserves. For additional details 
the student is referred to more advanced 
text-books or to some small manual on the 
subject, as Cohen's The Throat and the 
Voice, a volume in the American Health 
Primer Series. 

Experiment 81. Pinch the nostrils and try 
to pronounce slowly the words " Lincoln," 
" something," or any other words which re- 
quire the sound of m, In, ng. 

This will illustrate somewhat crudely the 
importance of the resonating cavity of the 
nose in articulation. 




Experiment 82. Take two strips of India 
rubber and stretch them over the open end 
of a boy's bean blower, or any kind of tube. 
Tie them tightly with thread so that a chink 
will be left between them, as in Fig. 1 76. 



FIG. 175. Arrangement 
of the Vocal Cords. 

A, epiglottis ; J3, section of 
hyoid bone; C, false vo- 
cal cords which have 
nothing to do with the 
production of voice; Z>, 
oblong opening between 
the false and true vocal 
cords; E, true vocal 
cord; F, section of the 
thyroid cartilage; H, 
section of anterior por- 
tion of the cricoid car- 
tilage ; K, trachea; L, 
section of the posterior 
portion of the cricoid car- 
tilage ; M, ladle-shaped 
cartilage. 



278 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

To illustrate roughly the passage of air through the glottis, force 
the air through such a tube by blowing hard, and if the strips are 
not too far apart a sound will be produced. The sound will vary in 
character according as the bands are made tight or loose. 

382. Effect of Tobacco upon the Throat and Lungs. The 
effect of tobacco upon the throat and lungs is frequently 
marked and persistent. The smoke is an irritant, both by 
its temperature and from its destructive ingredients. It 
irritates and dries the mucous membrane of the mouth and 

throat, producing an unnatural thirst, which may 
excite a craving for intoxicating liquors. 

The irritation of the throat may extend up the 
Eustachian tubes and impair the hearing. 

Again, the breathing in of the poisonous smoke 
produces unhealthful effects upon the delicate 
mucous membrane of the bronchial tubes and of 
FIG i 6 ^ e ^ un s - Upon the former it often produces 
an irritating cough, with short breath. The pul- 
monary membrane may be congested ; taking cold then 
becomes easy, and recovery from it is tedious. 

The habit of inhaling tobacco smoke, so common with 
boys who smoke cigarettes, and then forcing it through 
the nostrils, often causes inflammation of the air passages, 
throat, and nose. Breathing air laden with tobacco smoke 
may irritate and inflame the throat. Cigarette smoking 
itself is irritating to the throat passages. 

383. Effect of Alcohol and Tobacco upon the Voice. The 
peculiar harsh tone of the voice in those given to strong 
drink is a familiar fact. The reason for it is plain. Alco- 
holic liquors inflame and irritate the delicate lining of the 
throat and of the vocal cords. This, after a time, may 
make' the mucous membrane lining thick and rough. 




THE THROAT AND THE VOICE 279 

Alcohol may weaken the vocal efforts. Hence, vocalists, 
clergymen, and public speakers often find that alcoholic 
drinks impair the voice. 

Tobacco affects the vocal cords and to a marked degree 
may injure the voice. In fact, our best teachers of vocal 
music do not allow their pupils to use alcoholic liquors 
and tobacco. 1 

1 The celebrated throat doctor, the late Sir Morell Mackenzie, of 
London, strongly objected to cigarettes. These are his words: 

" Cigarette smoking is the worst form of tobacco indulgence, from the 
fact that the very mildness of its action tempts people to smoke nearly all 
day long, and by inhaling the fumes into their lungs saturate their blood 
with the poison. It should be borne in mind that there are two bad quali- 
ties contained in the fumes of tobacco. One is poisonous nicotine, the 
other the high temperature of the burning tobacco." 

When tobacco is smoked there are developed certain acrid vapors 
which have an irritant action on the mouth and throat. The effects of smok- 
ing are in part due to irritant matters in the smoke. The inflammation 
often extends to the larynx, or may spread up the Eustachian tubes and 
impair the hearing. Cigarettes are especially apt to cause these symp- 
toms. Those who draw the smoke into their lungs often suffer from 
chronic inflammation of the bronchial tubes in consequence. H. NEWELL 
MARTIN, M.D. 

QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT 

1. What is the throat ? 2. In what way may we get an idea of the 
throat ? 3. What parts of the throat can we see upon looking into a 
friend's mouth ? 4. What is the pharynx? 5. Give some hints about 
the care of the throat. 6. Describe the larynx. 7. What is meant 
by "Adam's apple"? 8. Describe the vocal cords. 9. How is the 
voice produced? 10. Upon what does the quality of the voice 
depend? 11. What is the effect of tobacco upon the throat and the 
lungs ? 12. How does cigarette smoking affect the throat passages 
and the voice ? 13. What is the effect of strong drink and tobacco 
upon the voice? 



CHAPTER XIII 
FIRST AID IN ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES 

384. Frequent Opportunities to give First Aid. We have 
tried in the preceding chapters to understand a few of the 
laws of health and to apply them intelligently to our daily 
living. It will help us to clinch what we have already 
mastered, if we now supplement our work with a knowl- 
edge of simple methods of procedure in case of the more 
common and less serious accidents and emergencies. 

Emergencies and accidents are of frequent occurrence. 
A playmate may cut his leg or foot with a scythe or knife, 
or fall and break his arm. A child may accidentally swal- 
low some laudanum, set his own clothing on fire, or push 
a bean into his nose or ear. A teamster may be brought 
in with his ears frost-bitten. A small boy may fall into the 
river and be brought out apparently drowned. Some one 
of our own family may be taken suddenly sick with some 
contagious disease or may be suffocated with coal gas. 

All these and many other things of a like nature call 
for a cool head, a steady hand, and some practical knowl- 
edge of what is to be done until medical or surgical help 
is obtained. A fairly good working knowledge of such 
matters may be easily mastered. 

A boy or girl who has acquired this knowledge and who 
is able to maintain a certain amount of self-control will find 
many opportunities in after years to lend a hand in the 
midst of accidents and sudden sickness. 

280 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES 281 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES 

385. What to do First. All that is expected of us is to 
tide over matters until the doctor comes. Retain as far as 
possible presence of mind, or, in other words, keep cool. 
Act promptly and quietly, but not with haste. 




FIG. 177. An Accident. 

This striking picture, by a celebrated French artist, has excited marked attention 
ever since it was first exhibited at the Paris Salon. The grouping is admi- 
rable, and by the absence of all accessories the interest is skillfully concen- 
trated on the principal personage, the attending surgeon, and the pale boy 
whose arm he is bandaging and who is striving not to wince beneath the 
treatment. That the hurt is not trifling is shown by the basin of blood 
and the look of concern in the countenances of the surrounding family, who 
are yet sufficiently composed to indicate that there is no imminent danger. 
The strongly lined faces of the peasants, with their varying expressions, 
contrasted with the rude interior, form a graphic study. 

The picture is used by the kind permission of William Wood & Co., publishers. 



282 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

Make the sufferer comfortable by giving him an abun- 
dance of fresh air and placing him in a restful position. 
Loosen all tight articles of clothing, as belts, bindings, 
corsets, and collars. Be sure to send for a doctor at once 
if the emergency calls for any such skilled service. 

386. What to do for a Fainting Person. A fainting person 
should be laid flat on his back with his head lower than his 
feet. Loosen tight clothing. Give plenty of fresh air and 
.sprinkle cold water on the head and neck. Smelling salts 
may be held to the nose to excite the nerves of sensation 
and thus stimulate respiration. 

When the patient does not become conscious in a few 
minutes a physician should be called without delay. Re- 
member that in all cases of fainting treatment should be 
given promptly. 

Experiment 83. To show proper treatment for fainting. Select 
several places about the schoolroom, and show exactly how a person 
should be placed, supposing he has fainted in a crowded room. 

387. Epileptic Fits. Nothing can be done to stop epilep- 
tic fits. Give plenty of fresh air. Unfasten the clothes, 
especially about the neck and chest. Crowd a pad made 
from a folded handkerchief or towel between the teeth to 
prevent the patient from biting his lips or tongue. Do 
not try to make the sufferer swallow any drink. See to 
it that he does not injure himself by falling against a 
hard surface. 

388. Hysterics. Attacks of hysterics vary in extent from 
an uncontrollable fit of laughing or crying to convulsions 
not unlike those of an epileptic character. No treatment 
is really necessary, as the patient will usually recover 
promptly if left alone. Sympathy is almost sure to make 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES 283 

bad matters worse. A dash of cold water in the face will 
sometimes assist recovery. 

389. Sunstroke and Heat Exhaustion. The main thing 
in sunstroke is to lower the temperature. Strip off the cloth- 
ing. Apply chopped ice, wrapped in flannel, to the head. 
Rub ice over the chest and place pieces under the armpits 
and at the sides. If there is no ice, apply an abundance 
of cold water to the head and neck. Sheets or cloths wet 
with cold water may be used. 

If the skin is cold, moist, or clammy, and the pulse weak, 
the trouble may be due to heat exhaustion. Give plenty of 
fresh air, but apply no cold to the body. Rest in bed is 
necessary. Apply heat and give hot drinks. 

390. Clothing on Fire. Throw the person down on the 
ground or floor, as then the flames will not tend to rise 
toward the mouth and nostrils. Without a moment's delay 
roll the patient in a carpet or rug so as to stifle the flames, 
leaving only the head out for breathing. If no carpet or 
rug can be had, use a coat or cloak. 

391. Burns and Scalds. Remove the clothing in cases of 
scalds and burns with the greatest care. Do not pull off 
the clothes from the burned places, but gently loosen them 
or cut them away bit by bit with a pair of sharp scissors. 
Save the skin unbroken if possible, taking care not to 
break the blisters. The aim is to prevent friction, to keep 
out the air, and to relieve pain. 

In burns caused by acids bathe the parts gently with 
an alkaline fluid, as diluted ammonia or strong soda in 
solution, and afterwards dress the burn. 

In burns caused by alkalies, as lime and caustic potash, 
apply acids, such as lemon juice or vinegar diluted with 
water. 



284 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



If the burn is slight, put on strips of soft linen soaked 
in a strong solution of baking soda and water, one heaping 
tablespoonful to a cupful of water. This is especially good 
for scalds. If carbolized or even plain vaseline is at hand, 
spread it freely on strips of old linen and cover well the 
burnt parts, keeping out the air with other strips carefully 

laid on. 

Burns and scalds 
are dangerous in 
proportion to their 
extent and depth. 
A deep or exten- 
sive burn or scald 
should always have 
prompt medical 
attendance. 

A mixture made 
by shaking together 
until creamy equal 
parts of linseed oil 
and limewater, and 
commonly known 
as Carron oil, is one 
of the best local 
applications for 
burns. Soak strips 
of old linen or absorbent cotton in this time-honored remedy 
and gently apply to the burnt parts, taking care to use 
more of the mixture as the strips become dry. 

Experiment 84. Have a small quantity of soda, linseed oil, and 
limewater in the schoolroom. Imagine a pupil has burned his arm 
or hand. Show exactly what is to be done and how. 




FIG. 178. Improvised Hand Seats: the 
Three-Handed Seat. 

The useful three-handed seat is made by one bearer 
grasping the free wrist of the other bearer and 
placing his free hand on his partner's shoulder, in 
order to support the patient's back. 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES 



285 



392. Frostbites. Rub the frozen parts vigorously with 
snow or snow water in a cold room. Continue this until 
a burning, tingling pain is felt, when all active treatment 
should cease. Pain 

shows that warmth 
and circulation are 
beginning to re- 
turn. No warm air, 
warm water, or fire 
should be allowed 
near the frozen or 
frost-bitten parts 
until the natural 
temperature is 
nearly restored. 

393. Dog Bites. 
There is not much 
more danger from 
the bite of a dog 
that is not " mad," 
that is, not suffer- 
ing from the dis- 
ease called rabies, 
than there is from 
any other lacerated 
wound. As a rule, 
the bites of ani- 
mals, such as cats 
and rats, are pain- 
ful and liable to be 

poisonous. A bite from a dog that is really "mad" is a rare 
accident, which demands prompt and fearless treatment. 




FIG. 179. Showing how the Improvised Three- 
Handed Seat may be used to carry an Injured 
Person (Sec. 405). 

The picture also shows how a boy's broken leg may be 
treated with an improvised apparatus made of two 
pieces of oak bark for splints, padded with grass and 
held in place by two pocket handkerchiefs. 



286 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

A mad-dog bite is really a lacerated wound. In the little 
roughnesses, and between the shreds, may be poisonous 
saliva. If these projections and depressions affording the 
lodgment can be removed, the poison may not do much 
harm. If done with a knife, the wound would be converted, 
practically, into a cut wound, and would require treatment 
for such. 1 

Remove the clothing at once from the bitten part, and 
apply a temporary ligature above the wound. This inter- 
rupts the activity of the circulation of the part, and to that 
extent may delay, or even prevent, the absorption of the 
poisonous saliva. 

If the wound is at once well cleansed with antiseptic 
washes, and a stick of solid nitrate of silver (lunar caustic) 
rapidly applied to the entire surface, the danger of blood 
poisoning is greatly diminished. 

Poultices, kept hot and moist with antiseptic solutions, 
may be applied to the injured parts to hasten the slough- 
ing away of the tissues whose vitality has been intentionally 
destroyed. 

If a physician is at hand, he will probably cut out the 
injured portion, or cauterize it thoroughly. A doctor's 
help is not always at our command. In such a case it 
would be a safe, and by no means a painful, procedure to 
take a poker, or other suitable piece of iron, heat it red hot, 
and cauterize the entire surface of the wound. 

1 Any dog, after having bit a person, is apt, under a mistaken belief, to 
be at once killed. This should not be done. The suspected animal should 
be immediately placed in confinement and watched, under proper safe- 
guards, for the appearance of any symptoms that indicate rabies. Should 
no pronounced symptoms indicate this disease in the dog, a great deal of 
unnecessary mental distress and worry can be saved both the person bitten 
and his friends. 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES 287 

394. Stings by Venomous Insects, as Bees and Wasps. 

Remove the sting if it can be seen. Vinegar and water, 
dilute ammonia, alcohol, or cologne water will give much 
relief. Moist earth or cold water if applied at once will 
afford some relief. 

In stings from plants, nettles, etc., great relief will be 
given by the prompt application of a dilute solution of 
ammonia or of baking soda. 

395. Bleeding from the Nose. Let the patient sit upright. 
Raise the arm on the bleeding side above the head. Do not 
blow the nose. Wring out two towels in cold water ; wrap 
one around the neck and the other properly folded over 
the forehead and upper part of the nose. In severe cases, 
put the feet in water as warm as can be borne. Plug the 
nostril with a piece of absorbent cotton which has been 
wet with strong borax or alum water. 

When the nostril has been plugged, especially if the 
patient is a young child, it is important to make sure that 
blood is not trickling down into the throat from the back 
of the nose. 

396. Foreign Bodies in the Nose. Young children are apt 
to push beans, peas, fruit stones, buttons, and other small 
objects into their own nose or that of some playmate. The 
child may usually be made to expel the object by blowing 
the nose hard while the clear side is closed by pressure 
with the fingers. At other times a sharp blow between 
the shoulders will cause the body to fall out. A hairpin, 
which has been first straightened and then bent into a 
small hook at one end, may be gently used to remove 
foreign objects from the ear and the nose. 

397. Foreign Bodies in the Throat. Bits of food or other 
small objects sometimes lodge in the throat, and are easily 



288 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

extracted by the forefinger, or they may be forced out of 
the passages by prompt and vigorous slaps on the back. 

If the object has actually passed into the windpipe, caus- 
ing sudden fits of spasmodic coughing, with a dusky hue 
of the face and fingers, surgical help must be called with- 
out delay. 

If small objects, like coins, pencils, keys, nails, buttons, 
etc., are swallowed, it is not necessary to take physic. 
Hard-boiled eggs, cheese, and potatoes should be freely 
eaten, so that the intruding substance may be infolded in 
a mass of solid food and carried safely through the bowels. 

The back of the throat should be examined in a strong 
light, for the body may be arrested at the entrance to the 
gullet, and, if seen, can often be dislodged by the fingers or 
some improvised instrument. 

398. Foreign Bodies in the Ear. Children sometimes push 
into the ear such small articles as grains of corn, buttons, 
pebbles, or beans. Syringe in a little warm water, which 
will often wash out any substance which is not likely to 
swell. If the substance, however, is likely to swell, do not 
syringe the ear, but try to remove the foreign body by 
gently extracting it with some homemade apparatus. 

If live insects get into the ear, drop in a little sweet oil, 
glycerin, melted vaseline, or warm sirup. If the tip of the 
ear is pulled up gently, the liquid will flow in more readily. 
If a light is held close to the outside of the ear, the insect 
may be coaxed to crawl out, being attracted by the bright 
flame. 

399. Foreign Bodies in the Eye. Cinders, particles of 
dust, bits of metal, and other small bodies may get into the 
eye and cause much pain. Never rub the eye. Hold the 
lid away from the eyeball and the tears will usually wash 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES 



289 




the substance away. Dash water with the hand into the 
eye when the lids are gently pulled apart. 

Sometimes the upper lid must be turned back. This 
is usually done as follows. Seize the lashes between the 
thumb and forefinger and draw the edge of the lid away 
from the eyeball. Now, telling the patient to look down, 
press a slender lead 
pencil or penholder 
against the lid, parallel 
to and above the edge, 
and then pull the edge 
up and turn it over the 
pencil by means of the 
lashes. 

The eye is now ex- 
amined readily, and usu- 
ally the foreign body 
may be seen and easily removed with the corner of a pocket 
handkerchief. After the substance has been removed, bathe 
the eye for some time with hot water to soothe the local 
irritation. This irritation often gives rise to the feeling that 
the foreign substance still remains in the eye. 

400. Contusions and Bruises. An injury to the soft tis- 
sues, caused by a blow, squeeze, or pinch from some instru- 
ment, or by a fall, is a contusion or bruise. A black eye, black 
and blue spots, an injury caused by a fall from a bicycle, and 
a finger hurt by a baseball are familiar examples of injuries 
which ordinarily require simple treatment. 

Wring out old towels or pieces of flannel in hot water 
and apply to the parts, changing as they become cool. 
For cold applications, cloths wet with equal parts of water 
and vinegar, or witch-hazel may be used. 



FIG. 1 80. 

Showing how the upper eyelid may be everted 
with a pencil or penholder. 



290 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

When wounds are made with ragged edges, such as 
broken glass and splinters, more skill is called for. Remove 
every bit of the foreign substance. If the skin about the 
wound seems to need washing, it should be done with an 
antiseptic solution. Bring the torn edges together and hold 
them in place with strips of plaster. 

Wounds made by rusty nails and tools, if neglected, 
often lead to serious results from blood poisoning. Keep 
such wounds clean by washing or syringing them twice 
a day with antiseptics which kill the bacteria or prevent 
their growth. 

Deaths following injuries from toy pistols and percussion 
caps have become so frequent in recent years that it is not 
safe to depend upon home treatment for such accidents. 
All such wounds should be treated at 
once by skilled physicians. 

FlG jgj Experiment 85. To show the proper way 

of treating cuts and bruises. Let red-pencil' 

Showing how a square knot marks made Qn the f a fingers, etc., 

may be tied with a hand- . . 

kerchief (Exp. 87). stand for cuts. Apply suitable strips of plaster 

in a proper way for a variety of imaginary cuts. 

After putting on the plaster, practice bandaging the parts with strips 
of cotton cloth rolled for the purpose. Practice using the handker- 
chief for a variety of bandages. 

401. Injuries to the Blood Vessels. It is very important 
to know the difference between the bleeding from an artery 
and that from a vein. If an artery bleeds, the blood leaps in 
spurts and is of a scarlet color. If a vein bleeds, the blood 
oozes in a steady stream and is of a somewhat darker color. 

Bleeding from an artery is dangerous in proportion to 
the size of the vessel, and as a result life itself may be 
speedily lost. In arterial bleeding, always remember to make 
deep pressure between the wound and the heart. 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES 



2 9 I 



402. What to do First. Do not be afraid to act at once. 
A resolute grip in the right place with firm fingers will do 
well enough until a knotted handkerchief, stout cord, shoe 
string, or an improvised 

tourniquet 1 is ready to 
take its place. If the 
flow of blood does not 
stop, change the pres- 
sure until the right spot 
is found. 

403. Where and how 
to apply Pressure. The 
principal places in which 
to apply pressure when 
arteries are injured and 
bleeding should always 
be kept in mind. 

If in the finger, grasp 
it with the thumb and 
forefinger and pinch it 
firmly on each side ; if 
in the hand, press on the 




1 A tourniquet is a bandage, 
handkerchief, or strap of web- 
bing into the middle of which 
a stone, a potato, a small block 
of wood, or any hard, smooth 
body is tied. The band is tied 
loosely about the limb, the hard 



FIG. 182. 

Showing how an improvised apparatus, or tem- 
porary tourniquet, may be adapted to arrest 
bleeding from an artery in the arm. This 
apparatus consists of half of a potato held 
in place over the artery by a pocket hand- 
kerchief used as a band. A stick, picked up 
on the ground, is inserted beneath the band 
on the opposite side of the limb and used as 
a lever to press the potato firmly against 
the artery. 



body is held over the artery to 
be constricted, and a stick is inserted beneath the band on the opposite 
side of the limb and used to twist the band in such a way that the 
limb is tightly constricted thereby, and the hard body thus made to 
compress the artery. 



2Q2 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

bleeding spot, or grasp firmly with the ringers just above 

and on both sides of the wrist. 

For injuries below the elbow, grasp the upper part of the 

arm with the hands and squeeze hard. The main artery 

runs in the middle line of the bend of the elbow. Tie a 

knotted handkerchief or cord 
here and bend the forearm so 
as to press hard against the 
knot. 

For the upper arm, press 
with the fingers against the 
bone on the inner side and 
just on the edge of the bulg- 
ing part of the biceps muscle. 
Take a stout stick of wood 
about a foot long and twist 
the cord hard with it, bring- 
ing the knot firmly over the 
artery (Fig. 190). 

For the foot or leg, use 
pressure, as before, in the 
hollow behind the knee just 

Showing how firm pressure may be made . . ir r . , 

with the fingers to compress the brach- above the Call Ot 

ial artery of the left arm. Some large Bend the thigh towards the 

superficial veins are also shown. -i i 11 

abdomen and bring the leg up 
against the thigh, with the knot in the bend of the knee. 

Experiment 86. To stop bleeding from the arteries. Locate the 
principal arteries on your own person and that of a friend. Let red- 
crayon or red-pencil marks stand for the course of the arteries. 

Now, with strings, cords, shoe strings, handkerchiefs, or strips of 
clothing, practice tying them so as to press deeply and firmly in the 
proper place. Let each one in the class practice on the same artery. 
Criticise and improve one another's work. 





ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES 293 

404. Bleeding from the Lungs. Blood that comes from 
the lungs is bright red and frothy. There is rarely much 
blood ; it usually follows coughing, feels warm, and has a 
salty taste. 

Bleeding from the lungs, or pulmonary hemorrhage, 
is a grave symptom. A doctor should be called at once. 
The patient should be made to lie down with the head and 
shoulders slightly raised. Perfect rest and quiet must be 
insisted upon. Finely chopped ice may be eaten to relieve 
thirst. Loosen the clothing, keeping the 
shoulders well raised and the body in a 
reclining position. 

Experiment 87. How to tie a square knot. 
With a handkerchief, a shoe string, a roller ^ 

bandage, or cords of various sizes, practice tying 

a square knot until it can be done accurately Showin S how a sc l uar< ; 
... J knot may be tied 

and rapidly. with a cord> 

A square knot l is tied by holding an end of a 

bandage or cord in each hand, and then passing the end in the right 
hand over the one in the left and tying; the end now in the left hand 
is passed over the one in the right and again tied (Fig. 181). 

405. Broken Bones. Parts of the body which have sus- 
tained a break or fracture of one or more bones should be 
handled with great care and tenderness. The most impor- 
tant signs of a broken bone are the fact of an accident 
having occurred of sufficient severity to break the bone, 
pain at a certain fixed point, the inability to bend the limb 
or move the bone in a natural position, and the grating 

1 If the student would render efficient help in accidents and emergencies, 
to say nothing of service on many other occasions, he must learn how to 
tie a square, or " reef," knot. This knot is secure and does not slip, as does 
the "granny" knot. The square knot is the one used by surgeons in 
ligating vessels and securing bandages. Unless one knows the difference, 
the insecure " granny " knot may be substituted. 



294 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



sensation which may be felt or heard at the point of injury. 
Never move the injured person until the limb is made 
safe from further injuries by putting on temporary splints. 
If you do not need to move the person, keep the limb per- 
fectly quiet and in a natural, comfortable position until the 

doctor comes. If the 
accident happens in the 
woods, the limb should 
be bound with handker- 
chiefs or strips of cloth- 
ing to a piece of board, 
pasteboard, or bark, 
padded with moss or 
grass, which will do well 
enough for a temporary 
splint (Fig. 179). 

Send for a doctor at 
once to set the broken 
bone (Figs. 30-32). 

Experiment 88. To carry 
an injtired person. Take 
some one of the small boys 
and show how he should 
be carried in a three-handed 
seat in case of injury. 




FIG. 185. 

Showing how an improvised apparatus may be 
used for a broken radius. This temporary 
dressing consists of two pieces of oak bark 
for splints, with grass for padding, and 
is secured in place by a boy's long stock- wrenching Or tearing of 
ing and a pocket handkerchief. 



406. Sprains. The 



ligaments about a 

joint is called a sprain. Sprains are often acquired in the 
course of outdoor sports. Thus, sprains of the fingers are 
common enough with baseball players. There is at once 
pain on movement and swelling. 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES 295 

Keep the injured parts at rest and soak them in water 
as hot as can be borne. Continue the treatment for several 
hours if necessary, until the pain and swelling have been 
reduced. Cold water is often used, but hot water is better. 
If prompt relief is not afforded, secure the services of a 
doctor. A crippled or weak joint may result from lack of 
prompt and proper treatment of a sprain. 

407. Asphyxia, or Suffocation. The chief dangers from 
poisoning by noxious gases come from the fumes of burn- 
ing coal in the furnace, stove, or range ; from blowing 




FIG. 186. 

Showing how a pillow, an inside coat, a " sweater," or a blanket may be 
used as a temporary splint on a broken leg. 

out gas or turning it down and having it blown out by a 
draught; from the foul air often found in old wells or 
mines; and from the fumes of burning charcoal. 

The first and essential thing to do is to give fresh air. 
Remove the person to the open air and place him on his 
back. Remove tight clothing about the throat and waist, 
and dash cold water on the face and chest. As soon as the 
patient can swallow, give hot coffee or hot ginger tea. 

Friction applied to the limbs should be kept up. If 
breathing has ceased or is very feeble, artificial respiration 
must be begun at once and the doctor sent for (Sec. 409). 



296 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



408. What to do in Apparent Drowning. Remove all 
tight clothing from the neck, chest, and waist. Sweep the 
forefinger, covered with a handkerchief or towel, round the 
mouth to free it from froth and mucus. Turn the body 
on the face, raising it a little with the hands under the 
hips to allow any water to run out from the air passages. 
Take only a moment for this. 

Lay the person flat upon the back, with a folded coat 
or pad of any kind to keep the shoulders raised a little. 
Remove the wet, clinging clothing as soon as possible. If 




FIG. 187. Production of Artificial Respiration. 
First movement inspiration. 

in a room or sheltered place, strip the body and wrap it in 
blankets, overcoats, etc. If possible, use bottles of hot 
water, hot flatirons, or bags of hot sand round the limbs 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES 297 

and feet. Watch the tongue ; it generally tends to slip 
back and to shut off the air from the glottis. Wrap a 
coarse towel round the tip of the tongue and keep it well 




FIG. 1 88. Production of Artificial Respiration. 
Second movement expiration. 

pulled forward. The first sign of recovery is often seen 
in the slight pinkish tinge of the lips or finger nails. That 
the pulse cannot be felt at the wrist is of little value in 
itself as a sign of death. Life may be present when only 
the most experienced ear can detect the heart beat. 

When a person can breathe even a little he can swallow. 
Give a few teaspoonfuls at a time of hot black coffee or 
hot ginger tea. Hold smelling salts or hartshorn to the 
nose. Meanwhile do not fail to keep up artificial warmth 
in the most vigorous manner. 



298 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

409. How to produce Artificial Respiration. The main 
thing to do in apparent drowning, or in other cases of sus- 
pended animation, is to produce artificial respiration until the 
natural breathing comes or all hope is lost. This is the 
simplest way to do it. The person lies on the back. Let 
some one kneel behind the head. Grasp both arms near 
the elbows and sweep them upward above the head until 
they nearly touch. Make a firm pull for a moment. This 
tends to fill the lungs with air by drawing the ribs up and 
making the chest cavity larger. Now return the arms to 
the sides of the body until they press hard against the ribs. 
This tends to force out the air and makes a complete act of 
artificial respiration. Repeat this act about fifteen times 
every minute for several hours if necessary. 

Experiment 89. To illustrate proper treatment for apparent 
drowning. Show exactly how artificial respiration is done. Let a 
boy lie on the floor or settee, and illustrate the process in every detail. 
It would be an excellent idea for a teacher to meet his hoys at their 
bathing place, or even on the playground, and instruct them more 
freely concerning every step in the treatment. 

Let two boys go through the process on a playmate under the eye 
of the teacher ; then others may follow their example. 



POISONS AND THEIR ANTIDOTES 

410. Careless Use of Poisons. Poisons of various kinds 
are quite generally used in the trades and kept about the 
house and premises as medicines, as disinfectants for killing 
insects and rats, and for many other purposes. 

People are often careless about poisons and leave them 
wrapped in a piece of paper or in some unlabeled bottle, 
or even in a cupboard or on a shelf in a kitchen closet, 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES 



299 



shed, or stable. Children either mistake them or are some- 
times urged by a playmate to swallow the contents of some 
bottle or package. 

The many fatal accidents due to drinking carbolic acid 
or aconite by mistake may serve as a familiar example of 
how stupid or careless people may be. 

411. How to prevent the Improper Use of Poisons. All 
poisons should always be put in bottles carefully labeled, 
and the word POISON should be plainly printed in large 
letters directly across the label. 

Fasten the cork firmly to the bottle 
by wire picture cord or copper wire 
twisted into a knot at the top. This 
simple precaution would certainly 
prevent a person from mistaking, in 
the dark, carbolic acid, oxalic acid, 
etc., for medicine. 

Poison should never be kept in 
the same place with medicines or 
other bottled preparations used in the 
household. Put them in some secure 
place and under lock and key. 

Another very simple rule is never 
to use the contents of any package or 
bottle unless you know exactly what 
it is. Do not guess at it or take any 
chances, but destroy it at once. 

412. Some Common Emetics. 
Poisons are often taken when medical 

help, especially in the country, cannot be had at short notice. 
They often do their work rapidly. Something must be 
done to counteract them, and that at once and in earnest. 




FIG. 189. BLACKBOARD 
SKETCH. 

The dotted line shows the 
course of the right fem- 
oral artery. 



300 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

For most poisons, the stomach should be emptied as 
speedily as possible. Make a quart of warm soapsuds. 
Force the sufferer to gulp it down, a cupful at a time. 
Run the finger down the throat and hasten the vomiting. 

A good emetic is made by stirring a heaping tablespoon- 
ful of ground mustard in a pint of warm water. Give 
a cupful every ten minutes until vomiting is produced. 
Common salt may be used in place of mustard. Stir a 
handful of powdered alum into a cupful of sirup and give 
a tablespoonful every ten minutes. It affords a prompt 
emetic. 

Be in earnest about it and do not waste time to see if 
the poisoned person likes such treatment. Vomiting will 
not do any harm. Remember that the poison may destroy 
life in a few minutes. 

413. Different Kinds of Poison. For convenience, the 
more common poisons may be arranged in different classes. 

Some poisons are acids, like the oil of vitriol ; others are 
alkalies, like lye. 

Some poisons are irritant mineral poisons, like arsenic or 
sugar of lead; while others are vegetable poisons, like monks- 
hood and wild parsnip. 

We can easily remember the general plan of treatment 
for each special class of the more common poisons. 

414. Acid Poisons and their Antidotes. The oil of vitriol, 
nitric acid, and muriatic acid are in common use in certain 
workshops and are occasionally used in the household. 
These are caustic mineral acids that rapidly burn and 
destroy the living tissues. 

Give an alkali. Give large quantities of strong soap- 
suds, chalk, tooth powder, soda or saleratus water, mag- 
nesia, or limewater. Scrape off the whiting from the wall 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES 



301 



or dig out a piece of plaster. Dilute it with large quantities 
of water and give the mixture. Follow this treatment with 
some mild, soothing tea made of flaxseed or Irish moss. 

Oxalic acid is often mistaken for granulated sugar or Epsom 
salts. For an antidote use chalk, whitewash, plaster, etc., 
as before. 

Carbolic acid in solution is very commonly used about the 
house. It is a highly dangerous poison and generally fatal. 
Provoke vomiting by giving large 
quantities of soapsuds and sweet oil 
mixed together. Follow with large 
draughts of sweet oil or milk. Large 
doses of Epsom salts may be used. 

415. Alkaline Poisons and their 
Antidotes. The common alkalies 
taken as poisons are ammonia, potash, 
and soda, usually dissolved but often 
in the form of lye. In addition to 
other poisons, horse liniments and 
other liniments generally contain 
ammonia. They are often taken by 
mistake. Alkalies burn the mucous 
membranes rapidly and severely. 

Give acids. Give vinegar freely. 

Lemon juice may be used. Large The dotted line shows the 
quantities of sweet oil, linseed oil, 
and castor oil may be given. 

416. Metallic Poisons and their Antidotes. Arsenic is a 
white, sweetish powder often used to kill rats. It is occa- 
sionally taken by mistake. Paris green is a form of arsenic 
used by farmers. Arsenic is also found in ratsbane and 
the various kinds of powder used to kill flies. 




FIG. 190. BLACKBOARD 
SKETCH. 



course of the left brachial 
artery. 



302 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

Provoke vomiting at once . Give large quantities of milk, 
the whites of eggs, flour and water, or oil and limewater. 

In sugar of lead poisoning, provoke vomiting and give 
Epsom salts. 

In copper poisoning by blue vitriol and verdigris, use 
milk or white of eggs followed by flaxseed tea. 

Use the same treatment in mercurial poisoning, occasioned 
by drinking solutions of corrosive sublimate, which is chiefly 
used as a disinfectant. 

Children sometimes eat the phosphorus from matches. 
Use plenty of magnesia, chalk, or whiting, but no oil. This 
poison acts slowly and usually there is time enough to get 
medical help. 

417. The Various Forms of Opium as Poisons. The vari- 
ous forms of opium are often taken by mistake or in an 
overdose. The narcotic effects of laudanum, paregoric, 
Dover's powder, most cholera mixtures, and many of the 
so-called "soothing sirups" and "drops" are due to opium. 

Brisk emetics must be used until they act thoroughly. 
Give plenty of hot, strong coffee without milk or sugar. 
Do not allow the patient to fall into a deep sleep. Dash 
cold water over the head and shoulders and slap the skin 
briskly with wet towels or with a slipper. Medical help 
must be called at once. 

NOTE. The teacher or student who is disposed to study the 
several topics of this chapter in more detail than is possible in an 
elementary text-book may find the necessary material in the following 
books. They are readily obtained of booksellers or may be found 
in the public libraries of larger towns : Dulles' Accidents and Emer- 
gencies (price $1.00); Pilcher's First Aid in Illness and Injury 
(price $2.00); Doty's Prompt Aid to the Injured (price $1.50), and 
Drinkwater's First Aid to the Injured (Temple-Primer Series; price 
50 cents). 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES 303 

418. Poisonous Plants. There are certain poisonous plants 
occasionally eaten by children and others which often pro- 
duce serious and sometimes fatal results. Children are 
somewhat disposed to " dare " their playmates to eat of 
plants which they find in their walks. 

We have space to refer to only a few of the most com- 
mon poisonous plants. 

Water hemlock, commonly known as wild parsnip, cowbane, 
etc., is poisonous. 

Aconite, otherwise known as monkshood and wolfsbane, 
might be mistaken for horse-radish. It is a dangerously 
poisonous plant. Several species of lobelia are poisonous, 
as the large lobelia with its blue blossoms, the cardinal flower 
with its tall spike of red flowers, and the well-known Indian 
tobacco. 

Several varieties of toadstools are poisonous and are occa- 
sionally mistaken for edible mushrooms. All parts of the 
poison sumac (poison dogwood, poison elder) are dangerous. 

Children should be taught to know what particular fruits, 
seeds, and flowers of plants are poisonous. 

Most persons are susceptible even to the touch of poison 
ivy, all parts of which, especially its juice, are poisonous. 
A few other plants, as poison dogwood and stramonium plant, 
are also poisonous to the touch. 

Give emetics that will produce prompt and brisk vomit- 
ing for poisoning from eating plants. Stimulating drinks 
and purgatives are usually indicated. 

Inasmuch as most vegetable poisons act promptly and the 
treatment is difficult in many cases, the services of a phy- 
sician are usually needed without delay. 



304 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT 

I. How may we supplement what we have learned in the preceding 
chapters ? 2. What are some of the more common accidents and 
emergencies that may occur at any moment ? 3. What are some of 
the things that we should do first ? 4. What should be done for a 
fainting person ? 5. Describe the treatment for epileptic fits. 6. What 
would you do for hysterics? 7. Describe the treatment for sunstroke 
and heat exhaustion. 8. Mention some things to be done when the 
clothing is set on fire. 9. Describe the treatment for burns and 
scalds. 10. What may be done for frostbites? 

II. Describe in some detail the nature and treatment of dog bites. 
12. What is to be done for bleeding from the nose. 13. Describe the 
treatment for foreign bodies in the nose; in the throat; in the ear; 
in the eye. 14. Show what may be done for contusions and bruises. 
15. How would you know the difference between bleeding from an 
artery and that from a vein? 16. What is the chief thing to do for 
arterial bleeding ? 17. How should pressure be applied to stop bleed- 
ing, at the fingers? below the elbow? on the upper arm? on the foot or 
leg? 18. What would you do for bleeding from the lungs ? 19. Describe 
in some detail the treatment for broken bones. 20. What should be 
done for sprains ? 

21. What is the first and essential thing to do in cases of suffo- 
cation? 22. Describe fully what to do for apparent drowning. 
23. Describe the process of producing artificial respiration. 24. How 
may the improper use of poisons be prevented ? 25. Describe a few 
of the more common emetics. 26. What are some of the more com- 
mon acid poisons and their antidotes ? 27. Name the alkaline poisons 
and their antidotes. 28. Mention a few metallic poisons, giving their 
antidotes. 29. What are the more common forms of opium? 30. What 
should be done for opium poisoning ? 

31. Mention some of the more common poisonous plants. 32. What 
is the general treatment in cases of accidental poisoning from plants? 



CHAPTER XIV 

BACTERIA; DISEASES THAT SPREAD AND DISINFECT- 
ANTS; CARE OF THE SICK ROOM 

419. The Work done by Bacteria. We all know that in 
hot weather milk, meat, and every kind of moist food quickly 
becomes bad. In a previous chapter we learned that a 
glass of sweetened water or sweet cider, if left in a warm 
place, soon begins to ferment or "work" (Chapter V). 
Everybody knows that if the dead body of some animal is 
buried in the ground, it soon begins to putrefy and after 
a time almost entirely disappears. 

All these and countless other wonderful changes in dead 
organic matter, known as putrefaction or fermentation, are due 
to the work done by myriads of living organisms called 
bacteria. The terms germs, microorganisms, and microbes are 
commonly applied to certain low forms of plant and animal 
life of microscopic size. Probably there are microorganisms 
that cannot be seen even with the help of the highest 
power of the microscope. 

420. Nature and Propagation of Bacteria. Bacteria are 
low forms of plant life which appear as the tiniest bright rods 
or dots when examined with a microscope of great power. 

When bacteria gain an entrance into fluid suitable for 
their growth they multiply by division with incredible 
rapidity. Thus, in a cupful of milk in the course of one 
hot night millions upon millions of bacteria may develop. 



306 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



Under certain conditions bacteria reproduce themselves 
by minute round bodies called " spores " or eggs. These 
spores become dried without losing their vitality, and as 
dust may be carried everywhere by the winds. Under 
favorable conditions they germinate and become bacteria. 1 

421. Importance of Bacteria in Nature. Bacteria exist 
in the soil and in water. They are wafted as dust in the 
air all over the face of the earth. We eat myriads of 
them in our food, drink them in water, and breathe them 
in the dust of the street, the house, and the workshop. 
These tiny organisms break down all dead organic matter 
into simple chemical substances which are thus made more 
fit for the food of plants. In other words, bacteria act 
as scavengers which serve to make the face of the earth 
clean and sweet for all living things. If it were not so, 
life upon the earth would be impossible. Like countless 
other species of living organisms, bacteria obey the relent- 
less law of nature which 
allows only the fittest to sur- 
vive. The rains, the winds, 

1 Bacteria consist of many varieties 
roughly divided into groups accord- 
ing as they are spherical, rodlike, or 
spiral in shape. The word "bacillus " 
is commonly applied to rod-shaped 
bacteria. Each bacterium consists of 
a mass of protoplasm surrounded by 
an ill-defined cell wall. 

The bacteria vary considerably in 
size. Some of the rod-shaped varie- 
ties are from y^^nr * Jihrs f an mc ^ 
in length and average about 7^^ 
of an inch in diameter. It has been calculated that a cubic space of -fa of 
an inch would contain 250,000,000 of these minute organisms and that 
they would not weigh more than ^-$ of a grain. 




FIG. 191. Various Forms of 

Bacteria. 
Magnified about 1000 diameters. 

) spheroidal bacteria in pairs ; B, same 
kind of bacteria in chains ; C, bacteria 
found in pus (grouped in masses like a 
bunch of grapes). 



BACTERIA 



307 




melting snow and ice scatter them far and wide over the 
land and sea and destroy many of them. 

422. Disease-Producing Bacteria. Many kinds of bacteria 
are harmless to our bodies, while others under certain 

conditions are the cause of sick- 
ness and death. Thus, diphtheria, 
typhoid fever, consumption, and 
probably other diseases may be 
produced through the agency of 
certain kinds of bacteria. 

Surface soils abound in many 
species of microorganisms which 
may retain their vitality and viru- 
lence for a long time. Thus, one 
experimenter kept some typhoid 
fever bacteria alive in polluted 

^ for four hundred and fif ty . s ix 

days. The disease called "lockjaw " is known to be due to 
germs occurring in the soil of certain localities (Fig. 199). 

It is a mistake to think that a cut 
of the thumb or great toe is more 
likely to be followed by lockjaw than 
is a cut elsewhere. The germs of 
lockjaw may enter any open wound. 

423. Bacteria in Food. Food, 
both good and bad, abounds in bac- 

teria. Fortunately not all bacteria FlG . I93> Scrapings from the 

are harmful and many that are Teeth, containing Several 

harmful are destroyed in cooking. 

The typhoid fever germ has been 

traced to ice, ice cream, and raw oysters that were fattened 

in salt water polluted with sewage. Bacteria have a special 



FIG. 192. A Group of Soil 

Bacteria. 




Different Kinds of Bacteria. 
Highly magnified. 



308 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

fondness for milk and its various products, which are 
therefore liable to be polluted in many different ways. 1 

424. How Bacteria gain Access to the Body. The germs 
of disease may gain access to our bodies in several different 
ways. Thus, one kind of bacteria requires a break in the 
skin in order to do harm. This mode of entrance to the 
body is called inoculation. This may result from using 
soiled instruments or tools, from gunshot injuries made 
by broken glass or rusty nails, and from numerous other 
causes. Death has resulted under certain conditions from 
the scratch of a pin or even the prick of a penknife or the 
point of a pair of scissors. 

Germs of disease may be carried by contact between 
healthy and diseased persons. This is known as contagion. 

Thus, the microscopic form 
of vegetable parasite caus- 

ing ringworm is a familiar 

example of germs which 
have been carried by means 
of a razor or a soiled towel, 
or which come from han- 
dling a stray cat infected 




CD 




1 It is not uncommon for a large 
number of persons to be poisoned 
from eating ice cream at some pub- 
lic gathering. This is caused by a 
change in the milk brought about 
by the presence of bacteria. The 
poisonous product of their action 
FIG. 194. Different Kinds of called " tyrotoxicon " may also be 

Milk Bacteria found in other foods which have 

milk as their basis, such as cheese, 

custard, and so on. There are vomiting and purging within a few hours 
after eating the food, succeeded by great nervous prostration, from which 
recovery follows slowly. 



BACTERIA 309 

with the same disease. 1 It has been discovered that flies 
and mosquitoes sometimes carry the germs of disease from 
one person to another. 2 

Again, disease-producing bacteria, as we have learned, 
may enter the body with the air we breathe, the food we 
eat, and the water we drink. Thus, as we have seen, the 
air may be infected with poisonous germs from the dust of 
dried sputa (Sec. 237). 

1 Ringworm may occur anywhere on the body, but is perhaps most com- 
mon on the scalp and face. When found on the bearded parts of the face it 
is called " barber's itch." 

Although ringworm of the face is usually a slight affair, it ought always 
to be cured as speedily as possible, for it is highly contagious. A child 
with ringworm should be kept away from school, should sleep alone, and 
should have special towels, soap, and hair- 
brush, which the other children in the family 
should under no circumstances be allowed 
to use. 

2 During recent years it has been dis- 
covered that many insects, supposed to be 

harmless, afford one of the ways in which JT IG< 195. A Piece of Hair 
infection may occur. During the Spanish- f rom the Scalp infested 
American war of 1898 it was proved that w i t h a Mold which pro- 
typhoid fever was spread through the camps duces Ringworm, 
by the agency of flies. 

These insects, bearing typhoid germs on their feet, would fly to the camp 
kitchens and there leave the germs on the food prepared for the soldiers. 
The prevalence of this " camp fever " among troops encamped in high and 
seemingly healthful regions puzzled the attending surgeons until the true 
explanation was discovered. 

The mosquito is another insect known to transmit certain diseases; 
indeed, it is believed by many to be the principal agent in the spread of yel- 
low fever and malaria. It does not carry the germs on its feet, as the fly 
does, but within itself and on its proboscis. It first stings a sick person, 
taking in the germs with the victim's blood, and then when it next stings 
a healthy person the germs are communicated to the blood and there 
develop in great numbers and excite an attack of the disease. 

In India, it has been found that flies carry cholera germs in the same 
way, wiping them from their feet on food; and it is quite probable that 
they may carry the germs of dysentery, consumption, and other diseases. 




310 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

The harmful results produced by bacteria vary greatly 
in kind and severity. Thus, the germs of consumption 
may take years to cause fatal results, while those of Asiatic 
cholera, malignant pustule, and diphtheria may destroy life 
within a few hours. 1 

425. How Bacteria may act in the Body. Bacteria act 
in the body in a twofold way. 

First, the germs themselves multiply in the body with incred- 
ible rapidity. 

Second, the products of bacteria, or their toxins, as they are 
called, may act their part and bring about a condition of poisoning. 

Thus, the typhoid bacilli, contained in drinking water pol- 
luted with wastes from the bodies of those who have had 
typhoid fever, may multiply in the body for two weeks or 
more (during what is called the "period of incubation"), 
but at the end of a limited time the typhoid toxins assert 
themselves and symptoms of disease appear. The toxins 

of bacteria may enter the gen- 
eral blood current and poison 
the entire system. 

The form of poisoning result- 
FIG. 196. Bacilli, or Rod-Shaped i n g f rom the presence in the 

Bacteria. 

Magnified about 1000 diameters. 

1 The proper relationship between 

From a culture obtained in anthrax, the diseases from which man suffers 
or "lalignant pustule, of the face. and those tQ ^ animals are liable 
Diseased hides carry this micro- . . , . 

organism and thus may occasion 1S interesting and important. Cats, 
this fatal disease among those who rabbits, and dogs, as well as children, 
handle hides and wool. suffer from diphtheria and scarlet fever. 

Animals may acquire these diseases 

from sick children and in turn transmit them to healthy children. Both 

man and the lower animals suffer from tuberculosis. 

Among the diseases belonging especially to animals, but which may 

also be contracted by men, are hydrophobia, anthrax or malignant pustule, 

glanders, and foot-and-mouth disease. 




BACTERIA 




FIG. 197. Pasteur's Midnight Vision. 

This picture is based upon a photograph of a painting which has won 
great fame during recent years. The artist has represented Pasteur, 
the celebrated scientist, busily at work in his laboratory, recording the 
results of his microscopical study of bacteria. As the great master 
of modern science rests for a moment from his midnight researches, 
he appears to see in vision the victims of pestilence, famine, and infec- 
tious diseases imploring relief from the good angel who symbolizes the 
wonderful victories won by Pasteur in combating disease. 

Louis Pasteur was born in Dole, France, in 1822, and died in 1895. 




312 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

blood of the products of putrefaction is known as septicaemia, 
or commonly, "blood poisoning." This may result from 
the use of polluted instruments, hands soiled in treating 
wounds, gunshot injuries, and from many other causes. 

426. Warfare between Bacteria and the Living Cells of 
the Body. Now, it is very evident that the body must be 

able to defend itself against the myr- 
iads of invisible foes which assail 
its life at every moment. Otherwise 
we should fall an easy prey to the 
germs of disease. As a matter of 
FIG. 198. Spiral Form of f ac t j there is unceasing warfare be- 

Bacteria found in Cholera. ^11 -i ^ 

tween the bacteria and their toxins 

Magnified about 1000 diameters. . . 

and the living cells of the body. 

The white blood corpuscles appear to be the warrior cells 
that fight the battle. A poison of another type, called 
antitoxin, is formed in the serum of the blood, which may 
antagonize the toxins and destroy their poisonous action. 1 

DISEASES THAT SPREAD AND DISINFECTANTS 

427. How Disease may be prevented and restricted. Two 
of nature's most efficient safeguards in preventing and 
restricting disease are pure air and pure water. Cleanliness, 
proper clothing, wholesome food, and physical exercise all 
play an important part in keeping the body in sound health. 

1 Within the past few years remarkable progress has been made by 
tireless scientific workers in their efforts to modify the action of disease- 
producing bacteria. For instance, the toxins of diphtheria germs are 
injected into the blood of a horse. In due time the antitoxin of the 
disease is removed from the serum of the infected blood, and after proper 
preparation is injected into the blood of a person exposed to or suffering 
from diphtheria. The effect is to modify decidedly the action of the 
poisonous germs of this dread disease. 



DISEASES THAT SPREAD 



313 



In the preceding chapters we have learned a few of the 
simplest principles which underlie the maintenance of good 
health. 

We are now to study very briefly other means which 
are used to prevent and restrict the spread of disease. 
One of the most common safeguards against the spread 
of disease is the use of 
vaccination as a protection 
against smallpox (Sec. 
256). That is, persons 
who are vaccinated are 
"immune," as it is called, 
from smallpox, or have it 
in a milder form. 1 

Another very common 
safeguard against the 
spread of contagious dis- 
eases is isolation. The 
patients, and often the 
family, are isolated from 
other people; a rigid 
system of nursing is in- 
stituted; a placard is placed upon the house; the premises 
are watched; and other familiar means of isolation are 
employed. 

1 Since the use of animal vaccine has taken the place of the old-time 
arm-to-arm vaccination, there is little or no danger of inoculating any kind 
of disease with the vaccine. The use of unclean tools, undue exposure to 
inclement weather, and neglect or improper treatment of the vaccination 
wound are often the cause of much unnecessary suffering. As the pro- 
tective power of vaccination gradually becomes weak with time, it is wise 
to repeat it every ten years at least. Any one exposed to smallpox ought 
always to be revaccinated, no matter how recently the operation may have 
been performed. 




FIG. 199. Rod-Shaped Bacteria, or 
Bacilli, which cause Lockjaw. 

Magnified about 1000 times. 



314 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

428. Disinfection. The destruction of the germs of dis- 
ease by means of heat, chemical agents, fumigation, or fresh 
air is known as disinfection. It is a most efficient and 
practical means for preventing the spread of disease. 

Some substances kill bacteria and are known as germicides. 
Other substances prevent the development of bacteria 
and resulting septic action, and these are called antiseptics. 
The word "disinfectant" is often used with more or less 
confusion to cover both these words. 1 

A deodorant is a substance that removes or conceals 
offensive odors. Deodorizers are not necessarily disin- 
fectants. 

429. Some Common Disinfectants. There are many ways 
of disinfecting, and much interesting research in this direc- 
tion is going on all the time. The destruction of infected 
material by fire is a sure but costly means of disinfection. 
Heat in various forms, as dry heat, steam, and boiling water, 
is a valuable disinfectant and does not injure most fabrics. 
These agents are generally used in combination with various 
chemical disinfectants. 

Certain chemical agents that are capable of destroying 
microorganisms are in general use. A compound of mer- 
cury, called corrosive sublimate, is a most efficacious and 
powerful germicide, but is exceedingly poisonous and can 
be bought only under restrictions. 

1 The sense in which the word " disinfectant " is commonly used is often 
wrong. When people say they will " disinfect " something, they generally 
mean that they will use some chemical to destroy a bad smell or mask it 
by another bad smell. The odor in itself is all the while quite harmless, 
although disagreeable, and even if it were a terrible menace, the drowning 
of it in another bad smell would not lessen the danger. As a matter of 
fact, many of the worst products of decomposition are odorless. When, 
people use the word, therefore, in this sense, they should say " deodorize." 



DISEASES THAT SPREAD 315 

Carbolic acid, chloride of lime, permanganate of potash, sulphur, 
formaldehyde (formalin gas), and various preparations made 
from zinc, iron, and petroleum are the disinfectants which 
are most used at the present time. 1 

There are also numerous varieties of commercial dis- 
infectants now in popular use which the manufacturers 
declare to be efficient germicides. 

430. Hints for the Prevention and Restriction of a Few of 
the More Common Infectious Diseases. A few hints and 
helps about the prevention and restriction of some of the 
more common and dangerous infectious diseases should be 
understood by every pupil in the elementary grades. 2 

431. Pneumonia. Pneumonia is believed to be spread 
by a germ which is in the sputum of those who have the 
disease. Care should always be taken to destroy or dis- 
infect all sputa. 

432. Influenza. Influenza, commonly called "grip," is 
now believed to be spread by a germ which finds its way 
from infected handkerchiefs and other articles and places 
into the nose, throat, and air passages of persons suscep- 
tible to this disease. 

433. Consumption. Consumption is spread by the dust 
of dried sputa and also by milk and meat of diseased cattle. 

1 Sulphur is an inexpensive, convenient, and satisfactory disinfectant. 
The infected room is first tightly closed. The cracks about the windows 
and doors are securely plugged with cotton or rags. The sulphur is put 
into a metal dish which rests upon bricks in a tub containing an inch or 
two of water. The sulphur, moistened with a little alcohol, is then ignited. 
The room is quickly closed and should be kept closed twenty-four hours. 

2 The necessary limitations of an elementary text-book for schools de 
not allow such a full treatment of the prevention and restriction of infec- 
tious diseases and their disinfection as the subject deserves. For more 
details, consult Conn's Bacteria, Yeasts, and Molds, Chapters XVI and XVII, 
pp. 241-266. 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



The most important measure for the restriction of consump- 
tion is the disinfection or destruction of all sputa 1 of every 
consumptive person and the strict supervision of all animals 
which furnish food (Sec. 237). 

434. Scarlet Fever. Scarlet fever has not yet been iden- 
tified by its special germ, but that there is a germ seems 
to be proved by the well-known fact that this disease 

can be communicated 
from person to person. 
It is spread by the dis- 
charges from the nose, 
mouth, and throat, and 
probably also by the 
minute scales and bits 
of dust which are 
thrown off from the 
surface of the body. 

Isolation and disin- 
fection are the meas- 
ures by which this 
disease is restricted. 

435. Diphtheria. 
Diphtheria is spread 
by the sputa, saliva, and whatever comes from the throat and 
mouth of the patient, and by the dust which results from the 
drying of such substances. The germs of diphtheria some- 
times remain in the throat weeks after apparent recovery. 

1 All persons suffering from this disease and who have a cough should 
carry small pieces of cloth (each just large enough to receive one sputum 
properly) and paraffined paper envelopes or wrappers in which the cloth, as 
soon as once used, may be securely inclosed and with its envelope burned 
at the first opportunity. These pieces of cloth must not be carried loose 
in the pocket and allowed to dry after being used. 




FIG. 200. Bacilli of Diphtheria. 
Magnified 1000 diameters. 



CARE OP' THE SICK ROOM 



317 



For the restriction and prevention of this disease isolation 
and disinfection are the important measures, isolation of 
every infected person and thing, and complete disinfection. 

436. Typhoid Fever. Typhoid fever is not so often con- 
tracted directly from contact with the sick person as it is 
from the discharges from the bowels and kidneys. These 
should always be 
properly disinfected. 
Undisinfected dis- 
charges, if dried into 
dust, may spread the 
disease through the 
air. 

The chief source of 
danger, however, is 
believed to be drink- 
ing water contami- 
nated by sewage or 
leachings from out- 
buildings. The germs 

& & FIG. 201. Bacilli of Typhoid Fever. 

of typhoid fever are 

Magnified 1000 diameters. 

not always killed by 

freezing, but are destroyed by boiling. All suspected water 

should be boiled. 




THE CARE OF THE SICK ROOM 

437. Help in Sickness. Every boy or girl who is over 
twelve years old should learn a few of the simplest things 
about taking care of the sick and the sick room. One may 
be called upon at any moment to lend a hand in nursing 
the sick. People who are unable to secure the services of 



318 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

a skilled nurse are often forced for this or other reasons to 
depend upon one or more of a large family of children to 
help in the sick room. 

Pupils should learn, therefore, at school such things 
about taking care of the sick as may be easily understood. 
Such practical knowledge is invaluable, for it may be put 
to a test at any moment. Aside from the satisfaction in 
having this knowledge is the opportunity so often afforded 
to give substantial help to those who need it in times of 
sickness and suffering. 

438. The Proper Location of the Sick Room. The sick 
room should be the lightest and most pleasant room in 
the house. Some one of the family may be taken sick in 
some inconvenient room. If there is a prospect of a long 
illness, and it is possible, get a room ready at once on a 
quiet and sunny side of the house. 

Take away all extra carpets, upholstered furniture, heavy 
curtains, etc. A clean floor, with a few rugs to deaden the 
footsteps, is much better than a woolen carpet. Carpets, 
extra clothing, etc., only absorb impurities and make the 
room foul. 

439. Need of Fresh Air and Sunlight. The sick room 
should have plenty of fresh air and sunlight. It is generally 
best to shade the room somewhat in certain diseases, but 
we should let in all the sunlight consistent with comfort. 
Sunlight and fresh air are often more efficient helps than 
drugs. They cost nothing but a little painstaking and 
common sense. 

With a little care every sick room may be supplied with 
pure air. If you cannot do anything else, cover the sick 
person all over with extra bedclothes, open the windows 
and doors, and fan out the bad air by swinging the doors. 



CARE OF THE SICK ROOM 



319 




FIG. 202. A Nurse for the Sick Room. 



320 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

Be sure to avoid draughts of cold air. Have a thermome- 
ter and keep the temperature as the doctor directs. 

440. Hints for the Care of the Sick Room. Do not allow 
a lamp with its flame turned down to burn through the 
night. A close room with such an odor for a whole night 
is enough to make a well person sick. If there is no gas 
or electric light, either use the lamp as usual and put it, 
carefully shaded, in an adjoining room, or, better still, use 
a sperm candle for a night light. 

Care must be taken to protect the patient from any 
noise which may disturb him, such as the noise of passing 
steam and electric cars, heavy teams, and playing children. 

Keep a sick room neat and trim. Remove at once all 
excreta and other offensive matters. Never allow such 
things to remain even for a short time in the room. In 
many diseases, especially scarlet fever, diphtheria, and con- 
sumption, use pieces of old linen instead of handkerchiefs, 
and burn them as soon as they are used. Carelessness in 
this matter often spreads contagious diseases. 

441. Additional Hints and Helps. Change the clothes of 
the bed and of the patient often. Do not let such cloth- 
ing be put away in a closet with others. Put it to soak 
at once in boiling water with some disinfectant added if 
necessary. The fresh sheets and pillow cases should be 
thoroughly dry and warm and never damp. 

Do not make a great show of bottles of medicines, spoons, 
glasses, etc., carefully spread out on the table. Keep all such 
things, except those absolutely necessary, in an adjoining 
room. To a patient not used to sickness, a formidable array 
of drugs and apparatus is apt to be discouraging. Some 
simple thing like an orange, a tiny bouquet of favorite 
flowers, or one or two playthings may take their place. 



CARE OF THE SICK ROOM 321 

442. Whispering in the Sick Room. Never get behind 
the door, in a corner, or in an adjoining room and whisper. 
It will fret a well person, to say nothing of its hurtful 
effects upon a sufferer whose nerves may be sensitive to 
the faintest noise. 

Whatever must be said, say it openly and aloud. How 
often a sudden turn in bed or a quick glance of inquiry 
shows that whispering is doing harm ! 

If the patient is in his right mind, answer his questions 
plainly and truthfully. It may not be best to tell all the 
truth, but nothing is gained by trying to avoid a straight- 
forward reply. 

443. Other Suggestions for taking care of Sick People. 
Do not allow yourself to take a nap while watching. Get 
a breath of fresh air or take a bit of food or hot drink, if you 
begin to feel drowsy. A good lunch after midnight and a 
brief period of rest will greatly relieve the tired and sleepy 
feeling. 

If a physician is employed, carry out his orders to the 
very letter as long as he visits you. Make a note of his 
directions on a slip of paper. Make brief memoranda of 
exactly what you do, such as the precise time of giving 
medicines, the quantity and kind of nourishment, and an 
exact record on the temperature chart. This should always 
be done in serious cases, and especially by night watchers. 
Then there is no guesswork. AH such things are valuable 
helps to the doctor. 

Above all, let there be cool, wise heads, willing hands, 
loving hearts, and a great deal of common sense on the 
part of helpers in the sick room. 

444. Nursing in Contagious and Infectious Diseases. On 
the physician rests a great responsibility in the care and 



322 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

thorough isolation of those who are suffering from the 
various kinds of infectious and contagious diseases. 

Next to the doctor much depends upon the person who 
has charge of nursing the patient. Those who nurse the 
sick should see to it that their persons and clothing are 
kept surgically neat and clean. The trained nurse, for 
instance, wears a cap to protect her head, for it is known 
that the hair makes a good lodging place for bacteria. 

The face, hair, and hands should be carefully washed 
with some disinfectant, especially after handling the person, 
the bedding, or the clothing of the patient. Rigid cleanli- 
ness of the finger nails is necessary. Nurses should change 
the clothing worn in the sick room when they leave the 
room to mingle with the family or to walk on the street 
for exercise. 

445. Hints on nursing Contagious and Infectious Diseases. 
Strip the room of superfluous rugs, carpets, and furniture. 
Isolate two rooms if possible, and have these, if convenient, 
at the top of the house. 

The most scrupulous care should be taken in regard to 
cleanliness. Old pieces of linen, cheese cloth, and paper 
napkins should be used whenever convenient or necessary 
and then burned at once. All soiled clothing that cannot 
well be burned should be put to soak at once in disinfect- 
ants and afterwards boiled apart from the family wash. 
Dishes and all utensils should be kept scrupulously clean 
by frequent boiling. 

For the bed and person old and worn articles of clothing 
that can be destroyed should be worn as far as possible. 
Tack sheets, wet in some proper disinfectant, to the outer 
frame of the sick-room door. Boil these sheets every third 
or fourth day (Sees. 430-436). 



CARE OF THE SICK ROOM 323 

In case of diseases to which the young are very sus- 
ceptible, send the children who have not been attacked, if 
possible, to other houses where there are no children. 1 

1 There are a few simple rules whose observance will reduce the chances 
of contagion. These rules should be followed by all, but it is particularly 
important that children in every household, and especially children in schools, 
should be taught their significance. The most important rules are : 

Do not spit on the floor. Do not wet the fingers in the mouth for the 
purpose of turning the leaves of books, especially library or school books, 
inasmuch as book leaves are sometimes the lurking places of disease- 
producing bacteria. 

Books used by children recovering from diphtheria or scarlet fever 
and then returned to a public library may distribute disease through a 
community. 

Do not put pencils in the mouth. Do not put money in the mouth. 
This is extremely important, because money is liable to come in contact 
with all sorts of people and to become contaminated with many kinds of 
disease-producing bacteria. 

Do not put into the mouth anything that another person has had in his 
mouth. This refers to gum, apple cores, candy, whistles, bean blowers, 
drinking cups, etc. 

In towns where the school officials furnish supplies children should be 
cautioned against putting into their mouths articles belonging to other 
children. 

Turn the face aside from others when coughing. This will sometimes 
prevent contagion passing from one person to another, inasmuch as the 
breath in coughing distributes disease germs. 

Always be particular about personal cleanliness, frequently washing the 
face and hands. 

Even a knife or a spoon coming from the sick room should be placed in 
boiling water before it is used by any other person. Water that is simply 
hot is not sufficient for this purpose. The water must be boiling, and it is 
better if the articles are placed in the water and the water boiled for five 
or ten minutes before they are taken out to be used. Adapted from 
Conn's Bacteria, Yeasts, and Molds. 



324 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT 

I. What change may occur in various kinds of food in hot weather ? 
2. To what are these changes due ? 3. What are some of the names 
given to these living organisms ? 4. What are bacteria ? 5. How do 
bacteria reproduce themselves? 6. State briefly the importance of 
the work done by bacteria. 7. What can you say about disease- 
producing bacteria ? 8. Describe the action of bacteria upon food. 
9. How may bacteria gain access to the body? 10. How may disease 
be spread by contagion? 

II. Give illustrations to show how diseases maybe spread by insects. 
12. In what two ways may bacteria act in the body? 13. Illustrate 
the distribution of bacteria by describing how typhoid fever spreads- 
14. What is meant by septicaemia, or blood poisoning ? 15. How does 
the body defend itself against bacteria? 16. What are the two great 
safeguards against the spread of disease? 17. What other means 
are used to prevent and restrict the spread of disease? 18. What 
is disinfection? 19. Define germicides, antiseptics, and deodorants. 
20. Explain briefly the use of fire and the various forms of heat as 
disinfectants. 

21. What are some chemical agents that are used as disinfectants? 

22. What can you say about the spread of pneumonia and influenza ? 

23. Describe in some detail the means used to restrict the spread of 
consumption. 24. What can you state about the spread of scarlet 
fever? 25. How may diphtheria be spread, and what are the two 
important measures used to restrict the disease? 26. How may 
typhoid fever be spread ? 27. Why should young people learn to take 
care of the sick ? 28. Describe the proper location of the sick room. 
29. Explain the need of fresh air and sunlight. 30. Mention some 
practical points about the care of the sick room. 

31. What additional hints concerning the sick room can you give? 

32. What are gome of the ill effects of whispering in the sick room ? 

33. What other suggestions about taking care of sick people can 
you give ? 34. What are some precautions necessary to be taken 
by nurses in infectious and contagious diseases ? 35. Give some 
suggestions about nursing patients suffering from contagious and 
infectious diseases. 



APPENDIX 



THE STUDY OF PHYSIOLOGY IN ELEMENTARY 
SCHOOLS 

Within a few years the methods of teaching physiology have 
changed radically for the better. No progressive teacher of to-day 
rests content with merely teaching the text. The text-book has come 
to be regarded only as a convenient helper, a crutch to lean upon, a 
basis upon which to build good work. Hence every topic in this 
text-book should be more fully explained, amplified, and illustrated. 
To secure the best results, a great variety of exercises should be 
arranged to help fasten the facts in the pupil's memory and to make 
the study interesting, useful, and practical. The author begs leave 
in this connection to present in outline a few of the more practical 
helps which have been utilized and tested in conducting classes in 
elementary physiology. 

1. Preliminary Oral and Written Work. Teachers should give 
their pupils a pleasant introduction to the work by a familiar talk 
on the general subject of studying physiology and hygiene. One 
or two lessons may be devoted to this topic. A carefully prepared 
outline should be written on the blackboard with catchwords enough 
to allow the pupil to follow readily. Impromptu questions and 
answers should be encouraged. The outline should be copied by 
the pupils into blank books with such catchwords as may make the 
meaning clear for future reference. The several points should be 
clinched with many homely and striking bits of information and 
picturesque illustrations. 1 

1 A suggestive blackboard outline to cover this point, together with a more 
detailed discussion of the several topics treated in this Appendix, may be found in 
the author's little book entitled "How to Teach Physiology," a handbook for 
teachers. A copy of this pamphlet will be sent postpaid on receipt of ten cents to 
any address by the publishers of this book. 

325 



326 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

2. The Use of a Blank Book. Every teacher of physiology will 
find a blank book of great service. Into this may be copied a great 
variety of working memoranda, apt quotations, lists of special topics 
and subtopics, additional practical experiments obtained from other 
teachers and text-books, examination and test questions, blackboard 
sketches, etc., gathered from many and varied sources. Everything 
should be numbered and labeled for quick reference, and cross refer- 
ences should be made to the home text-book. 

An extra copy of the school text-book should be kept for home 
use. Insert blank paper leaves or utilize blank margins of pages to 
insert catchwords and cross references to all sorts of illustrative mate- 
rial which may be collected and arranged from sundry notebooks, 
scrapbooks, and newspaper clippings. 

3. The Use of a Scrapbook. A well-kept and indexed scrapbook 
is also extremely useful to the busy teacher of physiology. Clippings 
of odd and interesting facts and instructive matter pertaining to 
physiology and health, which have been culled from newspapers, 
magazines, and periodicals generally, may conveniently be preserved 
in this manner. An old geography or a discarded account book will 
answer every purpose. Cross references should be made to the home 
text-book and to the blank book. 

4. How Teachers may utilize the Blackboard. The blackboard is 
very helpful in teaching physiology. It should be utilized for health 
maxims, golden texts, topics for oral and written work, review analy- 
ses, tables, and references of various kinds. The teacher can readily 
learn to make the necessary sketches rapidly and correctly on the 
blackboard. Sketches which take much time and pains should be 
made before or after the school session. Offhand sketches should 
be used every day and should be drawn in the presence of the class 
to illustrate sundry points in the text. 

5. How Pupils may utilize the Blackboard. The pupils themselves 
should be taught to do a goodly amount of work on the blackboard. 
Sketches of bones (Fig. 12, p. 19), diagrams of the circulation 
(Fig. 92, p. 149), tables of bones (p. 42), etc., should be put upon 
the blackboard by the pupils with as much confidence, neatness, 
and rapidity as they would use in writing out an exercise in language 
or in doing an example in arithmetic. Sketches which demand extra 
time and labor may be drawn before or after the regular session and 
allowed to remain on the board as long as convenient 



APPENDIX 327 

So simple a matter as using red crayon for the arteries, blue for 
the veins, yellow for the nerves, and white for the bones will add 
much to the attractiveness of the work. Duplicate copies of all this 
blackboard work may be used by the pupils to illustrate their own 
blank books. (See also Figs. 65, p. 103; 77 and 78, pp. 118 and 
119; and 105, p. 1 68.) 

6. Books for Collateral Reading and Reference. A certain number 
of books on physiology and hygiene are useful for collateral reading 
and quick reference. Their number and character will depend largely 
upon the grade of the pupil for whom they are intended. Second- 
hand text-books of the same grade as the class text-book are easily 
purchased of dealers. Such books may be kept on the teacher's desk 
for the pupil to consult in school hours or to carry home and read at 
leisure. Passages in these books which are interwoven with the 
topics under consideration should be marked with colored pencil by 
the teacher to aid the pupil in his researches. 

7. The Use of Homemade Apparatus. It is scarcely advisable to 
recommend the use of a manikin, separate bones, a skeleton, and 
physiological charts for use in the elementary grades. As a matter 
of -fact, very few school officials can afford to furnish their school- 
rooms with such useful but costly material. Fortunately, however, 
most teachers can copy passably well illustrations taken from other 
books. With a little painstaking and ingenuity the teacher of even 
the more remote district schools can make a few charts which will 
prove effective helps toward making the work successful. For this 
purpose, white cardboard or even manila paper may be used upon 
which to make the sketches in colored inks or crayons. For apparatus 
with which to hang or construct charts, eyelets, curtain fixtures, stout 
cords, clothespins, telephone wire, pasteboard boxes, colored paper, 
and many other things have been used. 

For the encouragement of teachers in remote sections it may be 
well to mention the fact that many eminent scientists do not hesitate 
to make very crude drawings on the blackboard, and often resort to 
the use of their own hats, umbrellas, canes, handkerchiefs, pocket- 
knives, and other articles to illustrate their lectures. 

It is, perhaps, unnecessary to state that the collection and prepara- 
tion of the working material which has been suggested may demand 
much labor and patience for the first year, but that it can be kept for 
use in succeeding classes. 



328 OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 

8. Importance of Experiments in teaching Physiology in Ele- 
mentary Schools. [The subject-matter as set forth in the preceding 
chapters of this book should be carefully studied and read. At the 
same time, however, the topics studied should be amplified and made 
more interesting and practical by a series of experiments given in 
connection with the several chapters, a goodly show of specimens, 
and a certain amount of microscopical work. 

The experimental method of teaching the sciences rivets the atten- 
tion and arouses and keeps alive the interest of the young student ; 
in fact, it is the only true method of cultivating a scientific habit of study. 
Every teacher knows that pupils gain a far better knowledge and keep 
up a livelier interest in their work, if they are able to see with their own 
eyes and to do with their own hands that which serves to illustrate the 
particular branch of science in which they are engaged. 1 

9. The Use of Inexpensive Apparatus. It will be noted that most 
of the experiments which have been suggested in the preceding chap- 
ters of this book can be performed with very simple and often crude 
homemade apparatus. This plan has been followed by the author : 
first, because he fully realizes the limitations of the subject ; and 
secondly, because he wishes to emphasize the fact that expensive and 
complicated apparatus is by no means necessary to illustrate the great 
principles of anatomy and physiology. 

In schools in which both the funds and the time for experimental 
work are limited, the zeal and ingenuity of teachers and students are 
often put to a severe test. Fortunately, a very little money and a 
great deal of ingenuity and patience will do much towards providing 
a working supply of apparatus. 

10. The Microscope in Elementary Schools. For elementary class 
work a moderate-priced but well-made and strong microscope should 
be provided. If the school does not own or cannot afford to buy a 
microscope, the loan of an instrument should be obtained for at least 
a few weeks from some person in the neighborhood. 2 

1 A number of books, prepared for the use of teachers and students who wish to 
supplement the text-book with experimental work, have been recently published. Of 
these books the teacher is advised to use James E. Peabody's Laboratory Exercises 
in Analomy and Physiology (Henry Holt & Co., New York, publishers ; price 60 
cents); and Bertha M. Brown's Physiology for the Laboratory (Ginn & Company, 
publishers; price 75 cents). 

2 The catalogues of scientific-instrument makers usually furnish a list of the 
requisite materials for experimental use or the titles of handbooks which describe 



APPENDIX 329 

The appearance of the various structures and tissues of the human 
body as revealed by the microscope possesses a curious fascination 
for every observer, especially for young students. No one ever forgets 
the first look at a drop of blood, or the circu- 
lation of blood in the web of a frog's foot as 
revealed by the microscope. 

11. Dissection in Elementary Schools. A 
few simple dissections which can be made 
with fresh beef joints and legs of chickens 
and turkeys will ans\ver every purpose in the 
elementary grades. A discreet teacher should 
rarely advise his pupils to dissect a dead cat, 
dog, frog, or any other animal. Instead of 
actually dissecting, the pupils should examine 
specimens or certain parts previously dis- 
sected by the teacher, as the muscles and 
joints of a sheep, the heart of an ox, the eye 
of a codfish, and so on. 

12. Teaching Surface Anatomy and Land- 
marks of the Body. In elementary work it is 

only fair to state that comparatively few points FIG. 203. A Compound 
concerning the surface anatomy and land- Microscope, 

marks of the body can be defined or located 

with precision. A certain amount of work in this direction can, how- 
ever, be done, even in elementary schools, with ingenuity, patience, 
and a due regard for the feelings of all concerned. For example, the 
student may be taught to examine the muscles and other parts of his 
own face, his teeth, tongue, and palate, and the bones and muscles of 
his shoulders and limbs. Two friends may thus work together, each 
serving as a model to the other. 1 

the use of the various microscopes of standard make. For detailed suggestions in 
regard to the manipulation and use of the microscope the student is referred to any 
of the standard works on the subject. 

For the names and addresses of firms that deal in microscopes and apparatus 
for experiments consult the advertising pages of leading educational publications. 

1 On pages 415-419 in the author's Practical Physiology may be found a syllabus 
of a brief course of study concerning surface anatomy and landmarks of the body. 




GLOSSARY OF TECHNICAL TERMS 



Many words that are defined or explained as they occur in the text of this book, or the 
meaning of which is readily understood, have been omitted in this Glossary. 



Ab-do'men (Lat.). The largest cav- 
ity of the body, containing the 
liver, the stomach, the intestines, 
and other organs. 

Ab-sorb'ent (Lat. absorbers, to suck 
up). An organ or part that ab- 
sorbs ; a lymphatic vessel. 

Ab-sorp'tion. The process of suck- 
ing up nutritive or waste mat- 
ters by the blood vessels or 
lymphatics. 

Ac-com'mo-da'tion of the eye. The 
alteration in the shape of the 
crystalline lens which adjusts 
the eye for near vision. 

Ac-e-tab'u-lum (Lat. acetabulum^ a 
vinegar cup). The cup-shaped 
cavity of the innominate bone 
which receives the head of the 
femur. 

A-cro'mi-on (Gr. &Kpos, extreme, and 
w/xos, the shoulder). The part of 
the scapula forming the tip of the 
shoulder. 

Al-bu'men (Lat. albumen^ white of 
egg). Formerly used as a synonym 
for proteid. 

Al-bu'min (albumen and -in). A 
class of proteids, as egg albumin. 



Ari-men r ta-ry (Lat. alere, to nour- 
ish). Pertaining to aliment, orfood. 

Al'i-men'ta-ry ca-nal'. The diges- 
tive tube from the lips to the end 
of the rectum, with its accessory 
glands. 

Al'ka-lies (Arabic /, the, and qaliy, 
ashes of saltwort). Certain sub- 
stances, such as soda, potash, and 
the like, which unite with acids to 
form salts. 

A-mce'ba (Gr. d/tot^, a change). 
A single-celled, protoplasmic ani- 
mal, which has the power of chang- 
ing its form by protrusions and 
withdrawals of its substance. 

A-mce'boid. Like an amoeba in 
form or in movement. 

An'aes-thet'ic (Gr. dp-, not, and a.l<jQt]- 
r6s, perceptible). A substance 
which produces insensibility to 
pain or to touch, as chloroform, 
ether, etc. 

An'ti-dote (Gr. &vrl, against, and 
5or6s, given). A substance given 
to prevent or counteract the 
action of a poison. 

An'ti-sep'tic (Gr. dvrl, against, and 
et j>, to make rotten). A remedy 



331 



332 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



or agent which prevents the devel- 
opment of bacteria, or prevents 
the growth of bacteria upon which 
putrefaction depends. 

An'ti-tox'in (Gr. dvrl, against, and 
toxin). A substance which neu- 
tralizes the action of the toxins of 
bacteria. Antitoxins are used in 
the treatment of certain infectious 
diseases, as diphtheria. 

An'trum (Gr. ditrpov, a cave). The 
cavity in the upper .jaw. 

Ap'pa-ra'tus. Used to designate 
collectively organs which perform 
a certain function. 

Ap-pen'di-ci'tis (Lat. appendix}. 
Inflammation of the appendix 
vermiformis of the caecum. 

A'que-ous hu'mor (Lat. aqua, water). 
The watery fluid occupying the 
space between the cornea and 
the crystalline lens of the eye. 

Ar'bor vi'tae (Lat. arbor vitae, tree 
of life). A name given to the 
treelike appearance of a section 
of the cerebellum. 

A-re'o-lar tissue (Lat, areola, dim. 
of area, a piece of open ground). 
Connective tissue containing small 
spaces. 

Ar-tic'u-la'tion (Lat. articulus, a 
joint). The more or less mov- 
able union of bones, etc. ; a joint. 

A-ryt'e-noid car'ti-lag-es (Gr. apt- 
Taiva, a ladle). Two small car- 
tilages of the larynx, resembling 
the mouth of a pitcher. 

As-phyx'i-a (Gr. d-, without, and 
(rtptfav, to pulsate). Suffocation. 
The suspension of vital phenom- 



ena when the lungs are deprived 

of oxygen. 
As-sim'i-la'tion (Lat. ad, to, and 

similis, like). The conversion of 

food into living tissue. 
Az'y-gos (Gr. d-, without, and fuyov, 

a yoke). Applied to parts that 

are single, not in pairs. 

Ba-cillus (Lat. dim. of baculum, a 
staff). A microscopic rod-shaped 
form of bacteria. 

Bac-te'ri-um, pi. bac-te'ri-a (Gr. 
paKT-fipiov, a little staff). A 
microscopic vegetable organism. 

Bac-te'ri-cide (bacterium and Lat. 
caedere, to kill). An agent that 
destroys bacteria. 

Blad'der (Saxon blcedre, a blister, 
a bladder). A bag, or sac, serving 
as a receptacle of some secreted 
fluid, as the gall bladder, urinary 
bladder, etc. 

Blight's dis-ease'. Disease of the 
kidneys, first described by Dr. 
Bright, an English physician. 

Cap'il-la-ry (Lat. capillus, hair). A 
minute vessel, as those that con- 
nect by a network the arteries 
and veins. 

Cap'sule (Lat. capsula, a little chest). 
A receptacle, or bag. 

Carbon di-ox'ide. A gas produced 
in the respiration of animals, and 
in the decay or combustion of 
organic matter. Often called car- 
bonic acid gas. 

Car'di-ac or'i-fice (Gr. Kapdia, the 
heart). The orifice of the 
stomach, near the heart. 



GLOSSARY OF TECHNICAL TERMS 



333 



Carton oil (from its use at the Car- 
ron Iron Works). A mixture of 
equal parts of linseed oil and 
limewater. 

Car'ti-lage. Gristle. A tough but 
flexible tissue forming a part of 
the joints, air passages, nose, 
ears, etc. 

Car'un-cle (lach'ry-mal) (Lat. ca- 
runcula, dim. of caro, flesh). The 
small, red, conical-shaped swelling 
at the inner angle of the eye. 

Ca'se-in (Lat. caseus, cheese). A 
proteid substance found especially 
in milk. The principal ingredient 
in cheese. 

Cell (Lat. cella, a room). One of the 
ultimate units of which all living 
bodies are composed. A granular 
mass of protoplasm containing a 
nucleus. 

Cer'e-bel'lum(Lat. dim. of cerebrum). 
The part of the brain lying below 
the cerebrum and above the pons 
and the medulla oblongata. 

Cer / e-brum(Lat.). The brain proper, 
occupying the upper portion of 
the skull. 

Chi-rop'o-dist (Gr. xeip, a hand, and 
Trotfj, afoot). A person who treats 
diseases of the hands and feet. 

Chlo'ral. A powerful drug and 
narcotic poison used to produce 
sleep. 

Chlo'ro-form. A narcotic poison 
generally used by inhalation ; of 
extensive use in surgical opera- 
tions to produce anaesthesia. 

Chordae ten-di'ne-ae (Lat.). Ten- 
dinous cords, connecting the papil- 



lary muscles of the heart with 
the auriculo-ventricular valves. 

Cho'roid (Gr. x6p iov > membrane, 
chorion, and elSos, form). The 
middle coat of the eyeball. 

Ciri-a (Lat. pi. of cilium, an eyelash). 
Minute threadlike processes 
found upon the cells of the air 
passages and other parts. 

Ciria-ry mus'cle. A small muscle 
of the eye which assists in accom- 
modation. 

Co-ag'u-la'tion (Lat. coagulare, to 
curdle). The process by which a 
liquid like blood or milk clots, or 
solidifies. 

Co'ca-ine. A bitter, white sub- 
stance obtained from the leaves 
of coca, capable of producing 
local insensibility to pain when 
applied to the surface of mucous 
membranes or injected under the 
skin. 

Coch'le-a (Lat. cochlea, a snail). The 
spiral cavity of the internal ear. 

Co'ma (Gr. KW,CI, lethargy). A deep 
stupor from which it is difficult 
or impossible to arouse a person. 

Com'mis-sure (Lat. com-, together, 
and mittere, to send). A bridge- 
like structure uniting similar parts. 

Com'press. A pad or bandage 
applied directly to an injury. 

Con'cha (Gr. K6yx"n, a mussel). The 
shell-shaped portion of the exter- 
nal ear. 

Con-ges'tion (Lat. com-, together, 
and gerere, to bring). Abnormal 
collection of blood in a part or 
organ. 



334 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



Con'junc-ti'va (Lat. com-, together, 
and jungere, to join). A thin 
layer of mucous membrane which 
lines the eyelids and covers the 
front of the eyeball, thus joining 
the latter to the lids. 

Con-ta'gion (Lat. com-, together, and 
tangere, to touch). The process 
by which a specific disease is com- 
municated from one person to 
another, either by contact or by 
means of an intermediate agent. 
Also the specific germ, or virus, 
which causes a communicable 
disease. 

Con'trac-til'i-ty (Lat. com-, together, 
and trahere, to draw). The prop- 
erty of a muscle which enables 
it to draw its extremities closer 
together. 

Con'vo-lu'tions (Lat. com-, together, 
and volvere, to roll). Tortuous 
foldings, as those of the external 
surface of the brain. 

Co-or'di-na'tion. The manner in 
which different organs of the body 
are made to work together. 

Cor'ne-a (Lat. cornu, a horn). The 
transparent hornlike substance 
which covers a part of the front 
of the eyeball. 

Cor'pus-cle (Lat. corpusculum, dim. 
of corpus, a body). A small body 
or particle. 

Cri'coid (Gr. K/SI'KOS, a ring, and eT5os, 
form). A cartilage of the larynx 
resembling a seal ring in shape. 

Crys'tal-line lens (Gr. /c/wo-raXXos, 
ice, crystal). One of the refrac- 
tive media of the eye ; a double- 



convex body situated in the front 

part of the eyeball. 
Cu'ti-cle (Lat. cuticula, dim. of cutis). 

Scarfskin ; the epidermis. 
Cu'tis (Lat. cutis, the skin). The 

true skin, also called the dermis. 

De-gen / er-a'tion(Lat.^,from,down, 
and genus, race). A morbid proc- 
ess in the structure of an organ 
by which its tissues are converted 
into some inert substance. 

Deg'lu-ti'tion (Lat. deglutire, to 
swallow). The act of swallowing. 

Den'tine (Lat. dens, a tooth). The 
hard substance which forms the 
greater part of the tooth ; ivory. 

De-o'dor-ant (Lat. de, without, and 
odorare, to smell). A substance 
which removes or conceals offen- 
sive odors. 

Dex'trin (Lat. dexter, right). A 
soluble carbohydrate into which 
starch is converted by diastase 
or dilute acids or by dry heat. 

Dex'trose' (Lat. dexter, right). 
Grape sugar. 

Dis'in-fect'ants. Agents used to 
destroy the germs of disease, fer- 
mentation, and putrefaction. 

Dis'lo-ca'tion (Lat. ctis-, contrary to, 
and locare, to place). An injury 
to a joint in which the bones are 
displaced or forced out of their 
sockets. 

Dis-sec'tion (Lat. dis-, apart, and 
secare, to cut). The cutting up of 
an animal to learn its structure. 

Du'o-de'num (Lat. duodeni, twelve 
each). The first division of the 



GLOSSARY OF TECHNICAL TERMS 



335 



small intestines, about twelve 
fingers' breadth long. 
Dys-pep'si-a (Gr. 5&r-, difficult, and 
TrtTTTeiv, to digest). The name 
given to certain diseases of the 
digestive organs. 

Ef-flu'vi-a (Lat. effluere, to flow 
out). Offensive odors coming 
from the body, and from decay- 
ing animal or vegetable sub- 
stances. 

Ere-ment One of the simplest 
parts of which anything consists. 

E-lim'i-na'tion (Lat. e, out, and 
limen, a threshold). The act of ex- 
pelling waste matters. Signifies 
literally " to throw out of doors." 

E-met'ic (Gr. ^uertK6s, causing vomit- 
ing). An agent which causes 
vomiting. 

E-mul'sion (originally milky juice 
from almonds bruised in water; 
from Lat. emulgere, to milk out). 
A preparation consisting of a 
liquid, usually water, containing 
an insoluble substance, as fat, in 
suspension. 

E-nam'el (Fr. en, in, and email, 
enamel). Dense material cover- 
ing the crown of a tooth. 

Ep'i-dem'ic (Gr. tirl, upon, and 
STJMOS? the people). A disease 
which affects large numbers, or 
which spreads over a wide area. 

Ep'i-glot'tis (Gr. lirl, upon, and 
7\wTT^s, the entrance to the wind- 
pipe). A leaf-shaped lid which 
covers the top of the larynx dur- 
ing the act of swallowing. 



Ep'i-lep'sy (Gr. t-rrl, upon, an 

seize). A nervous affection ac- 
companied by fits and sudden 
loss of consciousness. 

Either (Gr. aid-tip, the pure upper 
air). A narcotic poison. Its chief 
use is as an anaesthetic in surgi- 
cal operations. 

Eu-sta'chi-an tube (from an Italian 
anatomist named Eustachio). 
The tube which leads from the 
throat to the middle ear. 

Ex-cre'ta (Lat. excernere, to sepa- 
rate). The refuse matter which 
is passed from the body in any 
form. 

Ex-cre'tion (Lat. excernere, to sepa- 
rate). The separation from the 
blood of the waste matters of 
the body; also the materials 
excreted. 

Fas'ci-a (Lat. fascia, a band). The 
areolar tissue forming layers be- 
neath the skin or between muscles. 

Fau'ces (Lat.). The part of the 
mouth which opens into the 
pharynx. 

Fe-nes'tra o-valis and fenestra ro- 
tun'da (Lat. fenestra, a window). 
The oval and the round window ; 
two apertures in the bone between 
the tympanic cavity and the laby- 
rinth of the ear. 

Fer'ment (Lat. fermentum, leaven). 
Any substance which in contact 
with another substance is capable 
of setting up changes (fermen- 
tation) in the latter, without itself 
undergoing much change. 



336 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



Fer'men-ta'tion (Lat. fermentum, 
leaven). An effervescent change, 
as by the action of yeast ; in a 
wider sense, the change of organic 
substances into new compounds 
by the action of a ferment. It 
differs in kind according to the 
nature of the ferment. 

Fi-bril'la (Lat. dim. oifibra, a fiber). 
A little fiber ; one of the longitudi- 
nal threads into which a striped 
muscular fiber can be divided. 

Fibrin (L^i.fibra, a fiber). A pro- 
teid substance contained in the 
flesh of animals, and also pro- 
duced by the coagulation of blood. 

Fol'li-cle (Lat. folliciilus, dim. of 
follis, a bag). A little pouch or 
depression, as the hair follicle. 

Fo'men-ta'tion (Lat. fomentum, a 
warm lotion or poultice). The 
application of heat and moisture 
to a part to relieve pain and reduce 
inflammation. 

Fo-ra'men (Lat. forare, to pierce). 
A hole, or an aperture. 

Fron'tal si'nus (Lat.yr^j, the fore- 
head). A blind or closed cavity 
in the bones of the skull just over 
the eyebrows. 

Fu'mi-ga'tion (Lat. fumigare, to 
smoke). Disinfection by means 
of a vapor. 

Func'tion (Lat. fungi, to perform). 
The normal or special action of 
a part. 

Gan'gli-on (Gr. 7^77X401', a tumor 
on or near a tendon). A collec- 
tion of nerve cells. 



Gd'a-tin (Lat. gelare, to congeal). 
An albuminoid substance which 
dissolves in hot water and forms 
a jelly on cooling. 

Germ (Lat. germen, a sprout, bud). 
A portion of matter capable of 
developing into a living organism, 
a microorganism. 

Ger'mi-cide (germ and Lat. caedere, 
to kill). An agent which destroys 
germs, especially bacteria. 

Gland (Lat. glans, an acom). An 
organ consisting of one or more 
follicles and ducts, with numer- 
ous blood vessels interwoven. 

Glot'tis (Gr. 7\u>Tra, the tongue). 
The space between the vocal 
cords. 

Glu'cose' (Gr. y\vi<fa, sweet). A kind 
of sugar found in fruits, also 
known as grape sugar. 

Gly'co-gen (Gr. yXvirfs, sweet, and 
-yevtfs, producing). A substance 
belonging to the carbohydrates, 
found especially in the liver ; also 
known as animal starch. 

Hem'i-sphere (Gr. rj/u-, half, and 
<r(j>aTpa, a sphere). Half a sphere ; 
the lateral halves of the cerebrum. 

Hem'or-rhage (Gr. afpa, blood, and 
priyvtivai, to burst). Bleeding, or 
the loss of blood. 

He-pat'ic (Gr. rjirap, the liver). Per- 
taining to the liver. 

He-red'i-ty (Lat. hcreditas, heir- 
ship). The predisposition or ten- 
dency derived from one's ancestors 
to definite physiological actions 
or anatomical peculiarities. 



GLOSSARY OF TECHNICAL TERMS 



337 



Hu'mor (Lat. ##/0r, moisture). The 
transparent contents of the eye- 
ball. 

Hy'a-line (Gr. vaXos, glass). Glass- 
like, resembling glass in trans- 
parency. 

Hy'dro-gen. An elementary gaseous 
substance, which, in combination 
with oxygen, produces water. 

Hy'dro-pho'bi-a (Gr. vdwp, water, 
and 06os, fear). A disease caused 
by the bite of a rabid dog or 
other animal. 

Im-mune' (Lat. immunis, exempt). 
Exempt from certain diseases by 
inoculation, by previous attack, 
or by nature. 

In-ci'sor (Lat. incidere, to cut into). 
Applied to the four front teeth 
of both jaws, which have sharp, 
cutting edges. 

In'cus (Lat. incus, an anvil). One 
of the bones of the middle ear. 

In'di-an hemp. The common name 
of Cannabis indica, an intoxicat- 
ing drug known as "hasheesh" 
and by other names in Eastern 
countries. 

In-fec'tion (Lat. inficere, to stain). 
The communication of disease 
from one body to another, or 
from one part to another part of 
the same individual (auto-infec- 
tion). The material conveying the 
disease ; the disease-producing 
agent. 

In-fe'ri-or ve'na ca'va (Lat.). The 
vein carrying blood from the lower 
part of the body into the heart. 



In'flam-ma'tion (Lat. in, in, and 
flamma, a flame). Tissue changes 
accompanied with redness or 
swelling of any part of the body, 
with heat and pain. 

In-oc'u-la'tion (Lat. inoculare, to 
ingraft). The introduction of 
the germs of disease, generally 
through the skin, so as to pro- 
duce the disease. 

I'ris (Gr. Ipts, the rainbow). The thin 
muscular ring which lies between 
the cornea and crystalline lens, 
giving the eye its special color. 

Jaundice (Fr. jaune, yellow). A 
disorder in which the skin, eyes, 
mucous membranes, and secre- 
tions assume a yellowish tint, due 
to the presence of bile pigments 
in the blood. 

Lab r y-rinth (Gr. \af36pivdos, a 
maze). The internal ear, so 
named from its many windings. 

Lach'ry-mal ap'pa-ra'tus (Lat. la- 
crima, a tear). The organs for 
forming and carrying away the 
tears. 

Lens (Lat. /ens, a lentil). A piece 
of transparent glass or other sub- 
stance so shaped as either to con- 
verge or disperse the rays of light. 

Lig'a-ture (Lat. ligare, to bind). 
A thread of some material used 
in tying arteries or other parts. 

Lobe (Gr. Xo/36s, lobe of the ear or 
liver). A round, projecting part of 
an organ, as of the liver, lungs, or 
brain. 



338 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



Lockjaw, see " Tetanus." 

Lymph (Lat. lympha, pure water) 

The watery fluid in the lymphatic 

vessels. 

Malle-US (Lat. malleus, a hammer). 
The mallet; one of the small 
bones of the middle ear. 

Me-a'tus (Lat. mearc, to pass). A 
natural passage or canal. 

Me-dul'la ob-lon-ga'ta (Lat.). The 
" oblong marrow," also called the 
spinal bulb ; that portion of. the 
brain which lies upon the basilar 
process of the occipital bone. 

Mei-bo'mi-an. A term applied to 
the small glands between the 
conjunctiva and tarsal cartilages, 
discovered by Meibomius. 

Mem-bra'na tym'pa-nl (Lat.). Lit- 
erally," the drum membrane " ; the 
membrane separating the outer 
from the middle ear. 

Mes'en-ter-y (Gr. /t^ros, middle, and 
evrepov, the intestine). A fold 
of the peritoneum, surrounding 
an intestine, especially the small 
intestine. 

Mi'crobe (Gr. ^1^65, little, and /S/os, 
life). A living organism of very 
small size, a microorganism, 
either animal or vegetable. 

More-cule (Lat. molecula, dim. of 
moles, a mass). The smallest por- 
tion of a substance which can retain 
the properties of the substance. 

Mo'tor (Lat. movere, to move). The 
name of the nerves which con- 
duct to the muscles the stimulus 
which causes them to contract. 



Mu'cous mem'brane. The thin layer 
of tissue which covers those inter- 
nal cavities or passages which com- 
municate with the external air. 

Mu'cus (Lat.). The thin glairy fluid 
secreted by mucous membranes. 

Nar-cot'ic (Gr. vapKovv, to benumb). 
A substance that produces stu- 
por, convulsions, and sometimes 
death. 

Nic'o-tine (from Jean Nicot, who 
introduced tobacco into France). 
A poisonous substance found in 
the leaves of the tobacco plant. 

Nu-cle'o-lus (Lat. dim. of nucleus}. 
A small body often found within 
the nucleus of a cell. 

Nu'cle-us (Lat. nucleus, kernel). An 
essential part of a typical cell, 
often spherical and usually found 
near the center. 

(E-soph'a-gus (Gr. <f>tpeiv, ofoeiv, to 
carry, and ^cryetV, to eat). The 
tube leading from the throat to 
the stomach ; the gullet. 

Ox-i-da'tion. The union of oxygen 
with other substances, as in com- 
bustion. The essential part of 
burning and of breathing. 

Pal x ate (Lat. palatum, the palate). 
The roof of the mouth, forming 
the hard palate, and the curtain 
at the back of the mouth, called 
the soft palate. 

Pal'pi-ta'tion (Lat. palpitare, to 
throb). A violent and irregular 
beating of the heart. 



GLOSSARY OF TECHNICAL TERMS 



339 



Pa-pillae (Lat. papilla, a nipple). 
The small elevations found on 
the skin and mucous membranes. 

Pa-ral'y-sis (Gr. irapd, beside, and 
Meiy, to loosen) . Loss of function, 
especially of motion or feeling. 

Par'a-site (Gr. irapd, beside, and 
<rtVos, food). A plant or animal 
living upon or within another 
organism, called the host. 

Pel' vis (Lat. pelvis, a basin). The 
bony cavity at the lower part of 
the trunk. 

Pep'sin (Gr. irtyis, digestion). A 
ferment found in the gastric juice, 
and capable of digesting proteids 
in the presence of an acid. 

Pep'tone (Gr. TT^TTTCIV, to digest). A 
proteid body formed by the action 
of ferments on albumins or other 
proteids during gastric and pan- 
creatic digestion. 

Per'i-car'di-um (Gr. irepl, about, and 
Kapdta, heart). The sac inclosing 
the heart. 

Pert-os f te-um (Gr. irepi, around, 
and do-rtov, a bone). A delicate 
membrane, which invests and 
nourishes the bones. 

Per'i-tO-ne'um (Gr. ireptreiveiv, to 
stretch around). The investing 
membrane of the stomach, intes- 
tines, and other abdominal organs. 

Pha-lan'ges (Gr. <pd\ay, a body of 
soldiers closely arranged in ranks 
and files). The bones of the 
fingers and toes. 

Phar"ynx (Gr. <f>dpvy%, the throat). 
The cavity behind the mouth and 
the nose, leading to the gullet. 



Pi'a ma'ter (Lat. pia mater, gentle 
mother). The innermost of the 
three coverings of the brain. It is 
thin and delicate ; hence the name. 

Pin'na (Lat. pinna, a wing). The 
external cartilaginous flap of the 
ear. 

Plas'ma (Gr. ir\d<r<reiv, to mold). 
The fluid part of the blood and 
the lymph. 

Pleu'ra (Gr. ir\evpd, a rib, the side). 
A membrane covering the lung 
and lining the chest. 

Plex'us (Lat. plectere, to braid). A 
network of vessels, nerves, or 
fibers. 

Pneu'mo-gas'tric (Gr. trv^^wv, the 
lungs, and yaar^p, the stomach). 
The longest of the cranial nerves 
giving off branches to the lungs, 
the heart, the alimentary canal, 
and other parts ; also called the 
vagus, or wandering nerve. 

Poi'son (Lat. potio, a draught). A 
substance that, when introduced 
into the body, either destroys life 
or impairs seriously the function 
of one or more of its organs. 

Por'tal vein (Lat. porta, a gate). 
The venous trunk formed by the 
veins coming from the stomach 
and the intestines. It carries the 
blood to the liver. 

Proc'ess (Lat. pro, forth, and cedere, 
to go). Any projection from a 
surface; also, a method of per- 
formance, a procedure. 

Pro'te-ids (Gr. irpQTos, first). A 
general term for the albuminous 
constituents of the body. 



340 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



Pro'to-plasm (Gr. TT/OWTOS, first, and 
ir\d(r<reiv, to mold). The viscid 
material constituting the essential 
substance of living cells upon 
which all the vital functions of 
the body depend. 

Pto'ma-ine (Gr. Trrw^a, a corpse). 
One of a class of substances, re- 
sembling the vegetable alkaloids, 
formed during the decomposition 
of proteids. See " Toxin." 

Pty'a-lin (Gr. irrtiaXov, saliva). A 
ferment in saliva, having power 
to convert starch into sugar. 

Pu'pil (Lat. pupilla). The central, 
round opening in the iris, through 
which light passes into the inte- 
rior of the eye. 

Pus (Lat.). A yellowish-white, 
creamy liquid produced by sup- 
-puration. It consists mostly of 
cells floating in a liquid. 

Py-ae'mi-a (Gr. irfov, pus, and afyia, 
blood). A form of blood poison- 
ing produced by the absorption 
into the blood of morbid matters 
usually originating in a wound or 
local inflammation. 

Py-lo'rus (Gr. 7ruXav>65, a gate 
keeper). The opening of the 
stomach at the beginning of the 
small intestine. 

Re'flex (Lat. reflectere, to bend back). 
Involuntary movements or secre- 
tion produced by an excitation 
traveling along a sensory nerve 
to a center, where it is turned 
back or reflected along motor or 
secretory nerves. 



Res'pi-ra'tion (Lat. re-, again, and 
spirare, to breathe). The act of 
breathing in and breathing out air. 

Ret'i-na (Lat. rete, a net). The 
innermost of the three tunics, or 
coats, of the eyeball, being an 
expansion of the optic nerve. 

Ri'ma glot'ti-dis (Lat. rima, a chink 
or cleft). The opening of the 
glottis. 

Roent'gen rays. See " X-rays." 

Sar'co-lem'ma (Gr. o-cp, flesh, and 
X^/ia, a husk). The membrane 
which surrounds the contractile 
substance of a striped muscular 
fiber. 

Scle-rot'ic (Gr. aKKypovv, to harden). 
The tough, fibrous outer coat of 
the eyeball. 

Se-ba'ceous (Lat. sebum, tallow). 
Resembling fat ; the name of the 
oily secretion by which the skin 
is kept flexible and soft. 

Se-cre'tion (Lat. sccernere, to sepa- 
rate). The process of separating 
from the blood some essential, 
important fluid, which fluid is also 
called a secretion. 

Sem'i-cir'cu-lar ca-nals'. Three 
canals in the internal ear. 

Sep'ti-cae'mi-a (Gr. o^TrriKfo, putre- 
fying, and afyta, blood). Blood 
poisoning; a form of poisoning 
resulting from the presence in the 
blood of the products of putre- 
factive microorganisms. 

Se'rum (Lat. serum, whey). The 
clear, watery fluid which separates 
from the clot of the blood. 



GLOSSARY OF TECHNICAL TERMS 



341 



Spu'tum, pi. sputa (Lat. spuere^ to 
spit). Matter which is coughed 
up from the air passages. 

Sta'pes (Lat. stapes, a stirrup). One 
of the small bones of the middle 
ear 

Stertl-i-za'tion (Lat. sterilis, bar- 
ren). The destruction of micro- 
organisms, especially by heat. 
Commonly applied to the prepa- 
ration of milk for infants, and to 
surgical dressings. 

Stim'u-lant ( Lat . stimulare, to goad) . 
An agent which causes an increase 
of activity in the body or in any 
of its parts without increasing its 
supply of energy. 

Styp'tics (Gr. <rru7TTi/c6s, astringent). 
Substances that applied locally 
arrest bleeding. 

Sub-cla'vi-an vein (Lat. sub, under, 
and clavis, a key). A great vein, 
so called because it is situated 
underneath the clavicle, or collar 
bone. 

Su-pe'ri-or ve'na ca'va (Lat.). The 
great vein of the upper part of 
the body. 

Syn-o'vi-a (Gr. crtv, with, and Lat. 
ovum, an egg; a word corned by 
Paracelsus). The fluid secreted 
by the synovial membranes, which 
lubricates the joints ; joint oil. It 
resembles the white of a raw egg. 

Tem'po-ral (Lat. tempora, the tem- 
ples). Pertaining to the temples. 

Tet'a-nus (Gr. retveiv, to stretch). 
A disease marked by persistent 
contractions of all or some of the 



voluntary muscles ; those of the 
jaw are sometimes solely affected ; 
it is then termed lockjaw. 

Thyroid (Gr. 6vpe6s, a shield, and 
e?5os, form). The largest of the 
cartilages of the larynx; its pro- 
jection in front is called " Adam's 
apple." 

Tis'sue (Fr. tissu, from Lat. texere, 
to weave). Any substance or 
texture in the body formed of 
various elements, such as cells, 
fibers, blood vessels, etc., inter- 
woven with each other. 

To-bac'co (Indian tabaco, the tube, 
or pipe, in which the Indians 
smoked the plant). A narcotic 
plant used for smoking and chew- 
ing, and in snuff. 

Tox'in (Gr. To6i, poison). A 
poison formed by bacteria in 
both living tissues and dead sub- 
stances ; a poisonous ptomaine. 

Tra'gus (Gr. rpdyos, a goat). The 
eminence in front of the opening 
of the ear ; sometimes hairy, like 
a goat's beard. 

Tryp'sin (Gr. rp^ts, a rubbing). 
The ferment principle in pancre- 
atic juice which converts proteid 
material into peptones. 

Tu'ber-cle (Lat. tuberculum, dim. of 
tuber, a hump). A pimple, swell- 
ing, or tumor ; the specific lesion 
produced by the tubercle bacillus. 

Tu-ber'cu-lo'sis (same derivation as 
"tubercle"). An infectious dis- 
ease due to the bacillus tuber- 
culosis. The form of this disease 
with marked pulmonary symptoms 



342 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



is popularly known as consump- 
tion. 

Tur'bi-na'ted (Lat. turbo, a top). 
Formed like a top ; a name given 
to the bones in the outer walls of 
the nasal fossae. 

Tym'pa-num (Gr. njfjuravov, a drum). 
The cavity of the middle ear, 
resembling a drum in being closed 
by two membranes. 

U're-a (Gr. o&pov, urine). Chief solid 
constituent of urine ; nitrogenous 
product of tissue decomposition. 

TJ-re'ter (Gr.). The tube through 
which the urine is conveyed from 
the kidneys to the bladder. 

U'vu-la (Lat. dim. of uva, a grape, 
a bunch of grapes). The small 
pendulous body at the middle of 
the soft palate. 

Vaccine vi'rus (Lat. vacca, a cow). 
The virus used in performing vac- 
cination ; now usually derived 
directly from the cow. 

Var'i-cose (Lat. varix, a dilated 
vein). Distended or enlarged, as 
a vein. 

Vas'cu-lar (Lat. vasculum, dim. of 
vas, a vessel). Pertaining to or 
possessing blood or lymph vessels. 

Ve'nas ca'vae (Lat. pi. of -vena cava, 
hollow vein). A name given to 
the two great veins which meet 
at the right auricle of the heart. 

Ven'ti-la'tion (Lat. ventilare, to 
fan). The process of replacing 
the foul or vitiated air in any 



room or confined space with air 
that is pure. 

Ver'mi-form (Lat. vermis, a worm, 
and/0r#za,form). Worm-shaped. 

Ves'ti-bule (Lat. vestibulum, a fore- 
court). A portion of the internal 
ear, communicating with the semi- 
circular canals and the cochlea. 

Vilii (Lat. villus, shaggy hair). 
Minute threadlike projections 
upon the internal surface of the 
small intestine. 

Vi'rus (Lat. virus, poison). The 
poison of an infectious disease, 
especially one found in the secre- 
tions or tissues of an individual 
or animal suffering from an infec- 
tious disease. 

Vit're-ous (Lat. vitrum, glass). 
Having the appearance of glass ; 
applied to the humor occupying 
the largest part of the cavity of 
the eyeball. 

Viv'i-sec'tion (Lat. vivus, alive, and 
secare, to cut). Dissection of a 
living animal ; experimentation 
upon an animal while still alive. 

Vo'cal cords. Two elastic bands or 
transverse folds of the larynx. 

X-rays, or Roent'gen rays. The 

peculiar ether rays or waves dis- 
covered by Roentgen in 1895. 
These rays penetrate substances 
like wood, the bodily tissues, and 
many other substances which are 
opaque to the light of the sun ; 
extensively used in the diagnosis 
of surgical cases. 



INDEX 



Absorption 117 

by lacteals 117 

by lymphatics . . . . 119 

by blood vessels . . . 120 

Accidents and emergencies . 280 

Acetabulum 29 

Achilles, Tendon of .... 34 

Adam's apple 275 

Air, Composition of . . . . 170 

how changed by breathing 1 70 

Impurities in 173 

Bacteria carried by . . . 1 74 

Air passages 161 

Protection of 165 

Air sacs 163 

Albuminoids 70 

Alcohol, Effect of, on bones . 40 
Effect of, on muscular 

strength 62 

and army operations . . 64 

as a poison 94 

habit . . _ 96 

not a food 97 

Oxidation of 97 

Effect of, on mucous mem- 
branes 127 

Effect of, on stomach . 127, 128 
Effect of, on gastric diges- 
tion 128 

Effect of, on liver . . . 131 



PAGES 

Alcohol, Effect of, on blood . 155 

Effect of, on blood vessels 1 56 

Effect of, on heart . . 1 57, 1 58 

Effect of, on lungs . . . 180 
Effect of, on breathing 

capacity 180 

Effect of, on bodily heat . 181 
Effect of, on pulmonary 

diseases 181 

Effect of, on endurance 

of heat and cold . . . 182 

Effect of, on skin . . . 208 

Effect of, on kidneys . . 209 
Effect of, on nervous 

system 231 

Self-control weakened by 233 

Effect of, on character . 235 

Final effect of .... 236 

Moral effect of .... 236 

results, Hereditary, of . 237 

Effect of, on hearing % . . 258 

Effect of, on sight . . . 271 

Effect of, on voice . . . 278 

Alcoholic liquors in navy . . 65 

fermentation 85 

beverages 86-93 

habit, Effect of .... 236 

Alimentary canal 100 

Amoeba, Cell life of .... 7 

Anatomy defined 14 



343 



344 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



Antidotes for poisons . . 300-303 

Antitoxin treatment of disease 3 1 2 

Aorta and its branches . . . 145 

Apparatus, Question of 327, 328 

Appendicitis 121 

Areolar tissue 12 

Arteries . . 145 

Asphyxia 295 

Atmosphere, how made impure 174 

Auditory nerve 255 

Backbone 26 

Bacteria, Importance of, in 

nature 81 

as causes of disease . . 82 
as active agents in fer- 
mentation 83 

Work done by .... 305 

Nature of 305 

Importance of .... 306 

Disease-producing . . . 307 

in food 307 

Access of, to body . . . 308 

Behavior of, in body . . 310 
Warfare between, and 

cells 312 

Bathing, Hints on .... 199 

Baths, and bathing . . . . 199 

Cold 199 

Beer 88 

Food value of .... 89 
Drinking, in place of ar- 
dent spirits .... 90 
Bicycle, Use of ...... 58 

Bile 114 

as a help in digestion . . 114 

Bleeding, from nose .... 287 

How to stop . . . .291-293 

Blind spot 264 



PAGES 

Blood T 33-i3 8 

Corpuscles of ... 133, 134 

Uses of 133 

Properties of . .... 133 

Clotting of 136 

Importance of, clotting . 138 

Blood vessels, connected with 

heart 144-146 

Effect of alcohol on . . 1 56 

Injuries to 290 

Bone, how made up .... 16 

Microscopic structure of . 20 

Bones, General structure of . 18 

Shape of 19 

how joined 34 

how fastened 36 

Uses of 37 

broken, Repair of ... 38 

Health of 39 

Growth of, how modified 39, 40 

Effect of alcohol on . . 40 

Effect of tobacco on . . 41 

Table of 42 

Broken 293 

Bowels, proper care of . . . 126 

Brain 215 

Weight of 215 

Parts of 216 

Membranes of . . . . 218 

Reflex action and . . 222, 225 

Effects of alcohol on . . 232 

Bread, Different kinds of . . 74 

Breathing 161-183 

Object of 161 

Movements of . . . . 167 
See also under Respira- 
tion 

Bronchial tubes 163 

Burns or scalds 283 



INDEX 



345 



PAGES 

Caecum 114 

Canaliculi 20 

Capillaries 147 

Carbohydrates ....'. 6, 71 

Carpal bones 31 

Cartilage. . '. 13 

Thyroid 275 

Cricoid 275 

Cell life shown by amoeba . . 7 

Cells 6 

Variety of work done 

by 7 

Epithelial 10 

Nerve 212, 213 

Cerebellum . . 218 

Functions of 218 

Cerebrum 216 

Convolutions of. . . . 217 

Chemical elements in the body 4 

Chloral and chloral habit . . 243 

Choroid coat ..'... 260 

Chyle 117 

Chyme 112 

Cider 91 

Cigarettes ...... 131, 239 

Cilia of air passages .... 165 

Ciliary muscle 263 

Circulation, compared to water 

service 139 

General plan of . . . . 139 

General course of . . . 148 

Pulmonary 148 

Systemic 150 

Portal 151 

Effect of alcohol on . . 1 56 

Clavicle ........ 30 

Clothing, Dangers from 

change of 200 

Hints on use of . . . . 201 



PAGES 

Clothing, Advice on use of . 201 
Additional hints on use 

of 202 

Catching, on fire . . . 283 

Clotting of blood 136 

Coccyx 27 

Cochlea 254 

Coffee 78 

Cold and heat, Sensations of . 248 

Collar bone 30 

Colon 114 

Color blindness 267 

Condiments 74 

Conjunctiva 265 

Connective tissues .... 1 1 

with elastic fibers ... 12 

with white fibers ... 12 

Consumption 175, 315 

Contagion 308 

Contraction, muscular, Object 

of 47 

Contusions and bruises . . . 289 

Cooking 78 

Cornea 260 

Corpuscles, Blood .... 134 

Red 134 

White 136 

Touch 187 

Cranial nerves 220 

Cranium, Bones of .... 21 

Cricoid cartilage 275 

Crystalline lens 261 

Work done by .... 262 

Cuticle 185 

Deglutition ....... 108 

Dermis, or true skin .... 187 

Diaphragm . 168 

Diet, Important articles of . 74 



34^ 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



PAGES 

Digestion, Organs of and ob- 
ject of ioo 

in small intestine . . 114-120 

in large intestine . . . 121 
Effect of alcohol on . 127-131 

Diphtheria 316 

Disease, Means to avert dan- 
ger from 312 

Diseases, infectious and con- 
tagious, Management 
of ... 3 I 5~3 I 7> 3 2I -3 2 3 

Nurses in 321 

Hints on nursing . . . 322 

Disinfectants, Air and water as 312 

Common 314 

Disinfection 314 

Distillation, Process of ... 92 

Distilled liquors 93 

Dog bites 285 

Drinking, social, Danger of . 96 

Drinks, Refreshing .... 77 
Drowning, apparent, Method 

of treating .... 296, 297 

Drugs, Dangerous .... 244 

Drugs and narcotics .... 244 

Duct, Common bile . . 114 

Thoracic 118 

Tear 266 

Duodenum . 114 

Ear, Outer 252 

Middle 253 

Bones of 253 

Inner . 254 

Hints on care of ... 256 

Suggestions on care of . 257 

Foreign bodies in ... 288 

Eggs as food 75 

Elements, Chemical, in the body 4 



Emetics 299 

Epidermis, or cuticle . . . 185 

Epiglottis . . 108, 162, 273, 275 

Epileptic fits 282 

Epithelium 10 

Ciliated . . '. . . . ic 

Ethmoid bone 22 

Eustachian tube 254 

Excretion 107 

Chief organs of .... 204 

Exercise, Physical .... 53 

Need of 53 

Effect of, on muscles . . 54 
Effect of, on various 

o'gans 54 

Amount of, required . . 55, 

Time for 56 

Different kinds of ... 57 

Gymnastic 58 

Vigorous 58- 

Physical, in schools . . 59 
Beneficial effect of, in 

schools 60 

Effect of alcohol and to- 
bacco on capacity for 60-66 
Experimental work in physi- 
ology 328 

Expiration 167, 168. 

Eye 258 

Coats of 259 

Refractive media of . . 262 

Muscles of 264 

how abused 269 

Hints on care of ... 270 

Rest for 270 

Effects or tobacco r.nd 

alcohol on . . . . . 271 

Foreign bodies in ... 288 

Eyeball 258, 



INDEX 



347 



Eyelashes and eyebrows . . 265 

Eyelids 265 

Eyesight, Good and proper 

light essential to good . 269 

Expiration 168 

Face, Bones of the .... 22 

Fainting 282 

Fatty tissue 6 

Fats and oils 72 

Femur 33 

Fermentation, Alcoholic . 81, 85 

Nature of 81 

Different forms of ... 84 

Changes wrought by . . 86 

Fibula 33 

Fits, Epileptic and hysterical . 282 

Fontanelles 24 

Food tube 100 

Food, why we need it ... 69 

Waste made good by . . 69 

how swallowed . . . . 108 

how absorbed . . . . 117 

Quantity of 122 

How much, to eat . . . 122 
111 effects of eating too 

much 122 

What to use as . . . . 123 

When to eat 124 

Time to eat 124 

Hints about eating . . . 125 

Foods, Classification of . . 70 

Nitrogenous 70 

Proteid 70 

Starches and sugars . . 71 

Fats and oils 72 

Mineral salts 73 

Mineral 75 

Foot 33 



PAGES 

Forearm 30 

Fractures, Different kinds of . 38 

Frontal bone 22 

Frostbites 285 

Fruits as food 74 

Gallbladder . . . . . . 114 

Gases, Diffusion of . . . . 172 

Exchange of . . . . . 172 

Gastric glands no 

Gastric juice in 

Action of 112 

Germs 83 

Glands 101 

Salivary 104 

Gastric no 

Lymphatic 120 

Ductless 1 20 

Suprarenal 120 

Thymus 1 20 

Thyroid 120 

Oil 194 

Sweat 195 

Glottis ........ 276 

Glycogen 114 

Gristle 13 

Gullet 109 

Gymnastic exercises .... 58 

Hair, Structure of .... 190 

Color of 191 

Growth of 191 

Muscles of 191 

Care of 200 

Hand 31 

Haversian canals 20 

Head, Bones of 21 

Hearing, Sense of . . . . 251 

Organ of ...... 252 



348 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



Hearing, Mechanism of . . 255 

Effect of narcotics on . . 258 

Heart ......... 140 

Chambers of 141 

Valves of 142 

Work of 143 

Blood vessels connected 

with . 144, 145 

Beat of 153 

Sounds of 153 

Effect of alcohol on . . 157 

Effect of tobacco on . . 158 

Heat and cold, Sensations of 248 

Heat, Natural, of the body . 178 

how produced .... 179 

how lost 179 

Hepatic arteries and veins . . 152 

Hip bones 29 

Humerus 30 

Hygiene defined 14 

Hyoid bone 24 

Hysterics 282 

Ileum 114 

Infection, pulmonary, Dangers 

from 175, 315 

Influenza 315 

Inoculation 308 

Inspiration 167, 1 68 

Intestine, Small 114 

Digestion in small . . . 114 

Large 121 

Iris and pupil 260 

Jawbones, Upper 23 

Jawbone, Lower 23 

Jejunum 114 

Joints 34 

Different kinds of ... 35 



Kidneys . 203, 206 

Structure of .... 

Work done by . . . 

Health of 

Effect of alcohol on . 
Knot, square, How to tie a 



Labyrinth 

Lachrymal bones 

apparatus 

Lacteals 

Lacunas 

Lamellae 

Larynx 

Leg, Bones of 

Lens, Crystalline 

Ligaments 

Limbs, Upper 

Lower 31 

Liver 

Work done by .... 

Glycogenic function of . 

Effect of alcohol on . . 
Locomotive, Body compared to 

Long or far sight 

Lungs, Structure of .... 

Effect of alcohol on . . 

Bleeding from .... 

Lymph 

Lymphatics 117, 

Work done by .... 



206 

206 
207 
209 
293 

254 
2 3 

266 

117 
20 
20 

275 
33 

261 

3^* 
29 

'32 

114 
114 
114 



164 

i So 

293 
148 
1 20 
119 



Malar bones 22 

Malt liquors, Physiological 

effects of . . . . 90 

Mastication 102 

Maxillary, Superior . . . . 23 

Inferior 23 

Meats as food 75 



INDEX 



349 



PAGES 

Medulla oblongata . . . . 218 

Metacarpal bones 31 

Metatarsal bones 34 

Microbes 83 

Microorganisms 83 

Microscope, Use of .... 328 

Milk and eggs 75 

Mineral foods 75 

salts , 73 

Mold 83 

Mouth 101 

Muscles, as organs of motion . 44 

Kinds of 45 

voluntary, General build 

of 46 

Involuntary 46 

how they contract ... 47 

why they contract ... 47 

how they work in harmony 48 

how named 50 

of head and neck ... 51 

of shoulders and chest . 52 

of back and legs ... 53 

Effect of exercise on . . 54 

Effect of alcohol on . . 62 

Effect of tobacco on . . 63 

Muscular action, Variety of . 44 

contraction 47 

sense 247 

Nails 192 

Care of 193 

Narcotics 244 

Nasal bones 23 

Near sight 268 

Nerve cells 212 

and fibers, Work done by 213 

Nerve fibers 212 

Nerves, Structure of ... 214 



Nerves, Cranial 220 

Spinal 225 

Nervous system, General view 

of 211, 214 

compared to telegraph 

system 211 

Divisions of 214 

Health of 228 

Effect of worry on . . . 228 

Abuse of 229 

Effect of alcohol on . 231-237 
Effect of tobacco on . 238-241 

Nitrogenous foods .... 70 

Nose, Bleeding from the . . 287 

Foreign bodies in ... 287 

Nostrils . 161 

Nurses in contagious and in- 
fectious diseases . . . 321 

Nursing, Hints on .... 322 

Occipital bone 22 

CEsophagus 109 

Opium, Various forms of . . 242 

Poisonous effects of . . 242 

habit 242 

Caution in use of ... 243 

Poisonous forms of . . 302 

Organ defined 14 

Organic compounds .... 5 

Three classes of ... 5 

Palate bones 23 

Pancreas 116 

Pancreatic juice . . . . . 116 

Papillae 247 

Parietal bones ....... 22 

Parotid gland 106 

Patella 33 

Pelvis 29 



350 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



PAGES 

Pepsin in 

Peptones 112 

Pericardium 141 

Periosteum 20 

Perspiration . 196 

Phalanges 31, 34 

Pharynx 273 

Physical exercise . . . : 53-60 

why needed 53 

Effect of, on muscles . . 54 

Amount of 55 

Time for ....... 56 

Kinds of 57 

Walking for 57 

in schools 59 

Effect of, in schools . . 60 

Physiology, in schools ... i 

Importance of study of . i 

defined 14 

Study of, in schools . 325-329 

Experimental work in . . 328 

Plants, Poisonous 303 

Pleura 164 

Pneumogastric nerve . . . 221 

Pneumonia . 315 

Poison, Definition of ... 93 

Alcohol as a . . . . . 94 

Poisons, Action of .... 93 

Careless use of .... 298. 

Kinds of 300 

Acid 300 

Alkaline . . . . . . 301 

Metallic 301 

Vegetable . . . . . . 303 

Antidotes for . . . 300-303 

Portal circulation 151 

Portal vein 152 

Pressure, Where and how to 

apply, to stop bleeding 291 



Proteids 5 

Protoplasm ....... 7 

Nature of 8 

Energy set free by ... 8 

Pulmonary artery 144 

veins 144, 146 

circulation 148 

infection 175 

Pulse 153 

Pupil of the eye 260 

Pylorus no 

Radius 30 

Receptaculum chyli . . . . 118 

Rectum 114 

Reflex action, of spinal cord 

and brain 222 

Importance of .... 223 

Examples of 224 

Relief of, to brain . . . 225 

Reflex centers in the brain . 222 

Renal secretion 206 

Respiration, Object of . . . 161 

Movements of . . . . 167 

Mechanism of . . . . 168 

Effect of, on the air . . 170 

Changes of air in . . . 171 

in the tissues 173 

Effect of alcohol on . . 180 

artificial, Method of . . 298 

Retina 260 

Formation of image on . 263 

Ribs 28 

Ringworm 309 

Sacrum 26 

Saliva, Action of 106 

Salivary glands 104 

Salts as food 73 



INDEX 



351 



Salts, Inorganic 6 

Scalds and burns 283 

Scapula 30 

Scarfskin 185 

Scarlet fever 316 

Sclerotic coat 259 

Secretion 107 

Semicircular canals .... 254 

Semilunar valves 143 

Sensation 246 

Sensations, General .... 246 

Senses, Special 247 

Sick room, Care of ... 317-324 

Location of 318 

Fresh air and light in . . 318 

Hints for care of ... 320 

Other suggestions for . . 321 

Shoulder blade 30 

Sight, Sense of ..... 258 

Skeleton 16 

Review analysis of ... 42 

Skin, Structure of .... 185 

Two layers of .... 185 

Color of 186 

and sense of touch . . 187 

Reasons for care of . . 198 

Absorbent powers of . 188, 190 

Effect of alcohol upon . 208 

Skull 21 

Sutures of 24 

Sleep, Importance of ... 230 

Hints about .... 230, 231 

Smell, Sense of 250 

Special senses ...... 246 

Speech 277 

Sphenoid bone 22 

Spinal cord 221 

Reflex action of . . . . 222 

Spinal nerves 225 



PAGES 

Spine 26 

Wonders of 27 

Spleen 120 

Sprains 294 

Starches and sugars .... 71 

Sternum 28 

Stings of insects 287 

St. Martin, Alexis, Case of . 129 

Stomach no 

Coats of no 

Digestion in 1 1 1 

Sublingual gland 106 

Submaxillary gland . . . . 106 

Suffocation 295 

Sunstroke 283 

Suprarenal glands . . . . i2o 

Sutures of skull 24 

Sweat 196, 197 

glands 195 

Sympathetic system .... 226 

Action of 227 

Synovial fluid 35 

Tarsal bones 33 

Taste, Sense of 249 ' 

Tea and coffee 78 

Tear gland and tear passages 266 

Tears 266 

Teeth 102 

Structure and kinds of . 103 

Care of 126 

179 
198 
247 



Temperature, Bodily 

Skin as a regulator of , 
Sense of 

Temporal bones . . . . 

Tendon of Achilles . 

Tendons 

Thigh bone 



34 
. . 48 

33 
Thoracic duct . 118 



352 



OUR BODIES AND HOW WE LIVE 



Throat 273 

Care of 274 

Effect of alcohol and to- 
bacco on 278 

Foreign bodies in ... 287 

Thymus gland 120 

Thyroid gland . 1 20 

cartilage 275 

Tibia 33 

Tissue, White fibrous ... 12 

Yellow elastic .... 12 

Areolar 12 

Fatty ....... 13 

Tissues, Epithelial .... 10 

Connective 1 1 

Tobacco, Effect of, on bones . 41 

Effect of, on muscles . . 63 
Effect of, on physical 

development .... 66 
Effect of, on digestion . 131 
Effect of, on heart . . . 159 
Effect of, on nerve cen- 
ters 238 

Effect of, on nerves . . 239 
Effect of, on young people 240 
Effect of, on mental de- 
velopment 241 

Effect of, on hearing . . 258 

Effect of, on sight . . . 271 
Effect of, on throat and 

voice 278 

Effect of, on respiratory 

passages . . . . . 278 

Tongue, as organ of taste . . 249 

Touch, Sense of 247 

corpuscles 187, 247 

Trachea . 162 



Trunk, Bones of 25 

Turbinated bones 24 

Tympanic membrane . . . 253 

Tympanum ....... 253 

Typhoid fever . . . . . . 317 

Ulna 30 

Urine . 206 



Vaccination 190, 

Valve, Mitral 

Tricuspid 

Valves, of the heart .... 

Semilunar 

Vegetables and fruits . . . 
Veins, Pulmonary .... 
Ventilation 

how secured 

of schoolrooms .... 

of sick room 

Vermiform appendix . . . 
Vision, Common defects of 267, 

Effect of tobacco on . . 

Vocal cords 

Voice, Production of ... 

Effect of narcotics on . . 
Vomer 



313 
142 
142 
142 

H3 

74 

146 

'75 
176 
177 
3i8 

121 
268 
2 7 I 
2 7 6 
2 7 6 
2 7 8 
24 



Walking 57 

Waste matters, Principal . . 203 

described 204 

Water, as food 76 

Use of, in body .... 77 

Windpipe 162 

Wine, and Danger from . 86, 87 

Yeast 85 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO 
LIBRARY 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. " Ref. Index File." 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



