.«« 











• H O • ^' 




"o^^-^^^%o^ V^^v \'^^U^' V 















7:\* A 






^^' .--.^^^^ 



Cr r O " • • ^ 





* 4 o. 











•v %*^\/ V*^^%°' V-^*/ 











' .^M^'« \>/ "Ife: "^^/ /^^i \!^ :| 






7;T* <^ 



. ^'^'■^ V 






H 



SERVICE CLUB 




COOK 
BOOK 



COMPILED FROM RECIPES 
FURNISHED BY MEMBERS of 
THE SERVICE CLUB of Chicago 

PRICE ONE DOLLAR 



PROCEEDS FROM THE 
SALE of THIS BOOK to be 
DONATED TO CHARITY 



LIBRARY of CONGRESS 

TWO OoDies Received 

AUG 23 1904 

Copyright Entry 

CLASS ft- XXo. Na 

' COPY B 



^ 



iK 



C\ 



^ 



Copyrighted 1 904 by the 
Service Club of Chicago 




®If^ Btvxtm Qllub 0f Qltjtragn 



LIST 0/ MEMBERS 



Miss Eliza Atwood 


Mrs. Eugene H. Garnett 


Mrs. O. E. Babcock 


Miss Laura Gibbs 


Mrs. Walter Brewster 


Miss Emma Goddard 


Miss Florence D. Bartlett 


Miss Marion S. Gwinn 


Miss Katherine S. Barton 


Mrs. Charles Gillett 


Miss Elizabeth Belden 


Miss Bessie F. Hamlin 


Miss Italia M. Blair 


Miss Florence Hastings 


Miss Natalie Blair 


Mrs. William F. Johnson 


Miss Grace Bogue 


Miss Sarah E. Knapp 


Miss Louisa Burrows 


Miss Edith Kohlsaat 


Miss Marjorie Burrows 


Miss Rhea Logan 


Miss Marion Calhoon 


Miss Mary Lord 


Miss Josephine Chapin 


Miss Margaret Lord 


Mrs. Edwin H. Clark 


Miss Elinor Meacham 


Miss Edith Counselman 


Mrs. L. P. Mercer 


Miss Elsie Dixon 


Miss Sybil Moorhouse 


Miss Edna Dixon 


Miss Carrie B. Neely 


Miss Marion Doud 


Miss Florence Neff 


Mrs. George R. Earling 


Miss Alice St. J. Nolan 


Mrs. Harold Eldridge 


Mrs. William H. Noyes 


Mrs. William Eniory 


Miss Florence Pardridge 


Miss Katrina Fairlee 


Mrs. Robert E. Peacock 


Miss Ethel F. Fisher 


Mrs. C. L. Pierce, Jr. 


Mrs. Lawrence Fitch 


Miss Gertrude Potter 


Miss Eunice Follansbee 


Miss Ethel Randolph 



Miss Laura Shedd 

Mrs. Solomon A. Smith 

Miss Florence Spencer 

Miss Harmon Spruance 

Miss Mary Steele 

Mrs. Redmond Stephens 

Miss Marjorie Streeter 

Mrs. Robert E. Stone 

Miss Frances Shoyer 

Miss Miriam Steever 

Miss Minnetta M. Taylor 

Mrs. James W. Thorne 

Mrs. Robert J. Thorne 

Miss Louise Turner 

Miss Theodore Tyler 

Miss Eva Waller 

Mrs. John W. Walsh 

Mrs. Richard Walsh 

Miss Fannie M. Warner 

Miss Annie Warren 

Miss Mildred Wells 

Miss Frances Wetmore 

Miss Florence Williamson 

Miss Margaret Winterbotham 

Mrs. Stanley Woodworth 



ASSOCIATE MEMBER 
Mrs. Samuel R. Kaufman 



LIFE MEMBER 
Mrs. A. V. H. Wakeman 



NON-RESIDENT MEMBERS 



Mrs. Thomas Beard, New York 

Miss Maud E. Carter, New York 

Mrs. Louis G. Kaufman, Marquette, Michigan 

Miss Mabel Richardson 

Mrs. H. F. Good 

Mrs. Joh-n D. York 

Mrs. Isaac M. Jordan, Cincinnati, Ohio 



AUNT CELIE'S GINGER-BREAD. 

**How I make dat good ginger-bread? O, I 
jes' makes it. Miss, jes' makes it. How you 
make it? Well, now. Miss, 1 dunno. Well, 
les' see, you jes' takes 'bout four han' -fulls of 
flour, an' water, an' 'bout so much sugar, an' 
'bout three gullups m' lasses, an' ginger 'cordin' 
to your jedgment. What a *gullup' ? — Law, 
Miss, doan you know how the ol' m' lasses jug 
done 'gul-lup'* when yo' tips it up?" 



N. B. — All the recipes in these pages are 
equally exact. A few are equally successful. 

A BACHELOR. 



CONTENTS 



PAGES 

SOUP 7-II 

FISH 12-15 

COCKTAILS 16 

FISH AND MEAT SAUCES 17-18 

MEAT AND POULTRY 19-23 

EGGS 24-25 

VEGETABLES 26-29 

SALADS 30-36 

PIES 37-38 

PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 39-43 

ICE CREAM, FROZEN DESSERTS, 

AND SAUCES FOR SAME 44-46 

MISCELLANEOUS COLD DESSERTS 47-52 

CAKES AND COOKIES 53-64 

CANDY 65-68 

BREAD, ROLLS, MUFFINS, ETC 69-76 

PRESERVES 77-81 




i>0upa uittl|0ut i>l0rk 



OYSTER SOUP. 

One quart milk, 1 quart oysters. Boil o^^sters 20 minutes 
in their liquor, boil milk separately, mix and let boil up, 
stirring- all the time. Put into strainer, and mash through 
with a spoon, put back into kettle and boil again, stirring, 
season with salt, pepper and butter, and stir in half table- 
spoonful flour. Add finally four tablespoons whipped cream. 
Serve with whipped cream. 



CREAM OF BEEF SOUP. 

One quart milk, one teaspoonful extract of beef. Put milk 
in double boiler, and add beef juice. Season, and just before 
serving, beat whole eg<^, and stir it in. 



CLAM SOUP. 

Two dozen clams, one bunch of celery, chopped fine. Cook 
celery in one quart of water until tender (about twenty min- 
utes). Season with butter and pepper; add clams chopped 
fine, and cook ten minutes. Heat one quart of milk, and add 
to clams. Roll tw6 crackers very fine and add. Just before 
serving add one egg, beaten very light. 



Service Club Cook Book. 



CREAM OF CELERY SOUP. 

Cook a veal bone five hours with salt, add three stalks of 
celery when nearly done. Strain and clear. Next day skim 
off fat, add one pint of cream, and thicken a little with flour, 
or cornstarch. Season to taste. 



CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Two bunches of asparagus, cayenne pepper, one pint ol 
cream, salt, one small glass of sherry, one ounce of butter. 
Boil the asparagus in two quarts of Avater until tender, then 
mash through colander. To this add one pint of the water 
in which the asparagus was boiled. Let it heat slowly, boil 
the cream and add ; melt the butter and stir in, salt to taste, 
thicken with cornstarch. Just before serving, add the 
sherry. 

SOUP BALLS. 

One tablespoonful drippings, two eggs, and some crackers 
rolled very fine. Beat drippings to a cream, then beat in one 
egg at a time, stir in crackers by degrees, until like mush. 
Roll in the hands into balls the size of a hickory nut. AVhen 
soup is boiling hot, put them in, and let them boil ten minutes, 
serve hot. 

MUSHROOM SOUP. 

One can mushrooms, one quart milk, half pint of cream, 
half cup butter, yolks of two eggs, and three tablespoonfuls 
flour. Let the mushrooms simmer in their juice. Place in 
double boiler the milk and cream. When heated almost to 
boiling, stir in the flour creamed in the butter. Chop the 
mushrooms and add, and also stir in the yolks of two eggs, 
well beaten. Season to taste. 



Service Club Cook Book. 



GREEN CORN CHOWDER. 

One-half pound clear fat pickled pork, chopped fine, 
and fried very crisp in spider; three Bermuda onions, also 
chopped fine, making the pork the base of the chowder ; one 
quart of potatoes, cut in dice ; one quart of sweet tender 
corn, one quart of rich milk, scalded, and butter size of an 
egg. Boil the pork and onions in one quart of water for 
fifteen minutes, add the potatoes and boil fifteen minutes 
longer ; then add the corn and boil another fifteen minutes ; 
lastly add the milk and butter, season to taste, and serve 
hot with small pretzels, crackers, or wheat bread. (A very 
delicious chowder.) 



CLAM CHOWDER. 

One-half peck clams in shells (or one quart canned clams), 
one quart raw potatoes, sliced ; two-inch cube salt pork, one 
teaspoonful salt, one-half teaspoonful pepper, one tablespoon- 
ful butter, one quart milk, one or two onions, cut small, six: 
butter crackers. Wash (shell) clams with a small brush, put 
them in a large kettle with one-half cup water, or enough to 
keep the under ones from burning, set over fire, and when 
top clams have opened, remove from fire, and skim off, and 
as soon as cool enough to handle take them out of shells, 
remove skin, and cut off black ends. Cut the long strips in 
pieces, leaving soft part whole. Let the clam liquor settle, 
and pour off carefully, use half liquor and half water. Fry 
the pork and onions in a spider, add the potatoes, which 
should have been boiled a few minutes in advance. When 
potatoes are soft in the pork, add clam liquor, seasoning, and 
clams ; when thoroughly heated add hot milk and turn into 
tureen. Do not put clams into the chowder until potatoes 
are done, as too lon"o- cookine- hardens them. 



lo Service Club Cook Book 



AMBER SOUP. 

Procure two pounds lean beef, and two pounds lean veal. 
Put into the soup kettle two ounces of butter and one onion, 
sliced. Cook until a dark brown, then add the meat, cover 
the kettle ten minutes, until the juice oozes from the meat, 
then add two quarts cold water, cover and let simmer gently 
for three hours ; then add one carrot, one bay leaf, sprig of 
celery, and two cloves. Let simmer one ho.ur longer, and 
strain through a colander, return the soup to the kettle. Beat 
the whites of two eggs, and one-half cup of cold water until 
well mixed. Add this to the boiling soup, cover, and boil 
rapidly for two minutes; set aside for a moment, and strain 
through two thicknesses of cheese cloth. It is then ready 
to serve. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

Cover a quart of gTcen peas (or one can), with hot water, 
and boil until they can be easily mashed (about one-half 
hour). Rub two tablespoons of butter, and one of flour 
together, and cook until smooth ; add the mashed peas, and 
then add a cup of cream and a pint of milk ; season with salt 
and pepper, let boil up once, strain and serve. One table- 
spoon of whipped cream added to each dish when ready to 
serve is an improvement. 

CORN SOUP. 

One pint grated green corn, one quart milk, one pint hot 
water, one heaping tablespoon of flour, two tablespoons of 
butter, one slice of onion. Cook the corn in water thirty 
minutes, let the milk and onion come to a boil, have the flour 
and butter mixed well together, then add a full tablespoon of 
boiling milk. When perfectly smooth, stir into the milk, and 
cook eight minutes. Take out onion and add corn. Season 
to taste and serve. 



Service Club Cook Book 



LENTIL SOUP, 

Two cups of lentils, two quarts of water, one-half an 
onion, one head of celery, one slice of salt pork ; seasoning ; 
boil slowly four hours, rub through a fine sieve, add cup of 
rich milk. 



CREAM MUSHROOM SOUP. 

One pint can mushrooms, one pint white stock, one pint 
sweet milk, two large tablespoons butter, one large table- 
spoon flour. First melt butter, then add flour, stock, and 
milk, and season to taste ; then add the mushrooms, chopped 
tine. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP. 

Two cups black beans, bouquet of herbs made of one 
sprig parsley, one sprig thyme, one clove, one-fourth cup 
sherry wine. Soak beans all night, cook until tender with 
the herbs. When beans are soft, drain off water, and pass 
through a puree sieve. Add enough brown stock to make 
the consistency of cream. Season with salt and pepper, add 
the wine, thin slices of lemon, and a hard-boiled egg cut in 
dice. 

ST. GERMAINE SOUP. 

Two cans peas (omit one cup), cooked in their own liquor, 
one salt-spoon pepper, one tablespoon salt, one tablespoon 
sugar, one sprig parsley, one bay leaf, one blade mace, one- 
half onion, minced. Cook half an hour slowly, then add three 
quarts of stock (veal or chicken). Thicken with three table- 
spoons of flour and three of butter. Add to soup and cook 
ten minutes. Before serving add one pint of milk and the 
peas. 




FISH ROULETTES. 

Boil a fish, weighing from one to two pounds, take the 
yolks of three hard-boiled eggs and cream with one-half 
tablespoon butter and one tablespoon flour. Stir this into 
one-half pint boiling milk. Add pepper, salt and mustard to 
taste, half an onion, grated; one teaspoon chopped parsley. 
Mix with this the fish, minced; form into cutlets; dip into 
egg and bread crumbs ; fry in hot fat and serve with cream 
sauce. (No. 1.) 

FISH CUTLETS. 

Cook the fish in salt water; remove all the bones. To 
each pound of meat add one-fourth pound of butter, three 
eggs, one-fourth pound soaked bread, salt, pepper and a 
tomato pressed through a strainer. ]\Iix well, shape into 
cutlets, dip in egg and cracker and fry in butter or lard. 



FISH TIMBALES. 

One cup chopped fish (any kind), one-half cup cracker 
crumbs, two eggs, beaten separately, one cup rich cream, 
one teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, one teaspoon salt, pincli 
red pepper. Bake in timbales twenty minutes, and serve 
with cream sauce. (See Sauce No. 1.) 



Service Club Cook Book. 13 



FILLET OF SOLE. 

Cut a flounder from head to tail as close to the bone as 
possible. Separate both halves from the bone. Cut each half 
in. two strips lengthAvise, then cut across into four or five 
pieces. Dust each piece with salt and pepper, dip into egg, 
then into cracker crumbs. Dip into kettle of boiling lard, 
brown, and serve quickly. 



TIMBALES OF SALMON. 

One and one-half pounds salmon, one-fourth pound butter, 
two eggs, one teaspoon each, sugar, salt and pepper, one and 
one-half teaspoons flour, one and one-half cups cream. Beat 
this with potato masher for one-half hour, put in moulds well 
buttered, and sprinkle in a little flour to prevent sticking. 
Set moulds in roasting pan filled with water, and put in oven. 
Bake one-half hour and serve with lobster or anchovy sauce. 



ESCALLOPED LOBSTER. 

Pick up fine the meat of two lobsters, one pint milk, two 
tablespoons butter, two tablespoons flour, one scant pint of 
bread crumbs, a little red pepper, salt and black pepper. Put 
milk over fire in double boiler, mix flour, butter and season- 
ing and stir into milk. Boil two minutes, then add lobster, 
and cook in oven ten minutes. 



CODFISH BALLS. 

One large cup of flaked codfish, three large cups of pota- 
toes, boiled and cut in dice. When potatoes are done, add 
fish and then heat through. Drain off w^ater and mash, add 
one egg, mould into- balls and fry in hot lard. This may be 
prepared the day before using. 



14 Service Club Cook Book. 



STUFFED PICKEREL. 

Cut the head off carefully, remove the skin without b^-ealv- 
ing', leavino- the tail on ; chop the meat ; moisten a few slices 
of br^d with a little milk, to which has been added two eggs ; 
chop with meat, adding parsley, salt and pepper; cut up one- 
half onion, fry in butter and add the meat; put the whole 
through a sieve; fill the skin and sew up, putting on the 
head, then boil one hour. Prepare a jelly of gelatine ; add 
some good soup stock and one cupful of the water in which 
fish was boiled. Put in mould and set away until cold. Serve 
fish on platter with jelly around it. 



m}M jtfiii 



SMOTHERED OYSTERS. 

Fifty oysters cooked in their own juice, one tablespoon 
chopped celery, one tablespoon butter, red pepper and salt 
to taste. Cook ten minutes, then add one wineglass of sherry, 
cook a few minutes longer, then break an egg into the mix- 
ture and cook two minutes. 



FRICASSEED OYSTERS. 

One tablespoon butter, one cup of flour, one cup of oyster 
liquor, two eggs, a little caj^enne, salt and nutmeg. Put but- 
ter in upper pan, melt thoroughly, then add flour, stirring 
constantly to avoid lumps. Add oyster liquor. When this 
comes to a boil, add oysters, and last of all the eggs, well- 
beaten. A little parsley may be added, if desired. 



Service Club Cook Book. 15 



ESCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

With one quart of oysters use two large green peppers, 
chopped very fine. Put a little melted butter in baking dish, 
add three large soda crackers, crumbled, and half of peppers. 
Next put in alternate layers of oysters and crackers, crum- 
bled, until the dish is nearly full, having the top layer of the 
crumbs, to which add the balance of the peppers. Scatter 
small pieces of butter over all, pour one-half cup of milk over 
mixture, and bake forty minutes in hot oven. A sprinkling 
of salt and a dash of red pepper should be added to each 
layer. 

PANNED OYSTERS (Southern). 

These are nearly as good as roasted oysters, and not 
nearly so troublesome. Put in a sauce pan over the fire 
enough butter to cover bottom of pan when melted. When 
hot, pour in one quart of large oysters, drained, and shake 
until the oysters curl. Serve on hot buttered toast. A little 
of the liquor may be added to the oysters while in the pan. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Prepare them by first making a mixture of butter, almost 
melted, a little salt, a tiny bit of cayenne and some lemon 
juice. Wipe the oysters dry, pour the mixture over them., 
then roll in crumbs, then in beaten egg, and in crumbs again 
and fry. 



Qlnrktatlfi 



OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

One-half bottle tomato catsup, two teaspoons lemon 
juice, one teaspoon horseradish, salt and a dash of Tobasco 
sauce. Pour over ovsters, and set on ice. 



OYSTER COCKTAIL (For One). 

Two tablespoons catsup, one teaspoon Chili sauce, one- 
half teaspoon horseradish, one-half teaspoon Worcestershire 
sauce, two teaspoons lemon juice, one teaspoon vinegar, three 
drops Tobasco sauce, six small oysters. 



CUCUMBER COCKTAIL (For One Glass). 

Two tablespoons catsup, one-half teaspoon horseradish, 
one-half teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, two teaspoons lemon 
juice, one teaspoon vinegar, three drops Tobasco sauce. Cut 
cucumbers into small cubes. 




CREAM SAUCE (No. 1). 

One cup cream thickened Avith flour, yolk of one egg- 
stirred in. 



SAUCE MARGUERITE FOR FISH. 

Two onions sliced fine and fried brown^ in butter, add 
one cup of beef stock, one teaspoonful of catsup, dash of 
pepi)er and salt. Thicken with one teaspoon of flour; 
strain all carefull}^ and pour over broiled fish. 



SAUCE TARTARE. 

One cup mayonnaise dressing, add one teaspoon capers, 
one teaspoon chopped parsley, one teaspoon cucumber 
pickles, and one teaspoon onion juice. Mix well. 



TOMATO SAUCE. 

Melt two tablespoons of butter, add two tablespoons of 
flour, one pint strained tomatoes, slice of onion, a small 
bay leaf, one teaspoon salt, speck of pepper, two cloves, 
and a bit of mace. Simmer fifteen minutes and strain. 



1 8 Service Club Cook Book. 



SAUCE FOR BAKED HAM. 

Two cups sugar, one and one-half cups vinegar, one- 
half cup whiskey, one-half cup sherry. ]\Iix all together in 
a bowl until sugar is dissolved. Theii pour all over the 
hauj at once and baste from the pan. If oven is hot enough 
the ham should be roasted only one-half hour after it is 
boiled. Baste often with the sauce so as not to let it burn. 



HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Two well beaten eggs, one teaspoon flour beaten in eggs, 
one-haif cuj) of milk added to this; then mix well into this 
one cup soup stock ; pepper and salt to taste. Then add 
one-half cup grated horseradish, one tablespoon butter. Put 
on the stove and let it come to a boil ; stir all the time until 
thick; cook in double boiler. It may be thinned with vin- 
egar, if cooked too long. 



Mtnt anin foultrg 



FRIED CHICKEN (Southern). 

It IS always better iP cooked the same day as killed. Cut 
into pieces and lay in salted water for about half an hour, 
then dry each piece and dip into flour that has been well- 
seasioned with salt and pepper. Fry in boilino- lard. It 
can be served either with crisp strips of breakfast bacon 
or a white sauce and chopped parsley. 

CHICKEN EN CASsSEROLE (No. 1). 

Dress a young chicken and cut in pieces for serving-; 
melt three tablespoons butter in an omelet pan, add an 
onion and a small carrot, each cut in slices, add the chicken 
and cook until delicately browned. Put all in the casserole, 
add one and one-half cups white stock and a bit of bay leaf; 
cover and let cook an hour, or tmtil tender, in the oven. 
Season with salt and pepper, and add a few mushrooms. 
Add three tablespoons sherry just before serving. 

LAMB CHOPS EN CASSEROLE. 

Place lamb chops in a casserole, add peas, two spoon- 
fuls carrot, and small mushrooms, one bay leaf, and salt and 
pei)pe]*. Flavor with Worcestershire sauce or tomato cat- 
sup; pour in water to nearly cover and bake in oven for 
one and thre^e^-tiuarters hours. 



Service Club Ccok Book. 



CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE (No. 2). 

Cut chicken as for fricassee, rub with butter and roll 
with liour; place in casserole, add one tablespoon peas, one 
bay leaf, one carrot, cut fine, a little Worcestershire sauce, 
one strip of bacon, water to nearly cover. Bake in a slow 
oven from one and one-half to two hours. 



CHICKEN TERRAPIN. 

Boil one chicken, chop white meat not too fine; cook 
'One quart cream in a double boiler until hot; take a scant 
half-pound of butter and melt in a stew pan. When it 
bubbles stir in two tablespoons of flour ; add the cream 
gradually, the pounded yolks of three hard boiled eggs 
and the chopped chicken; add one-haJf cup sherry wine 
land season with salt and pepper. Truffles improve it. 



CREAMED SWEETBREADS. 

Parboil sweetbreads for twenty minutes in water, to 
which has been added a little salt and lemon juice; then 
put into cold water a moment to harden. Remove mem- 
branes and veins, cut into dice and cook in a double boiler 
four hours with enough sweet milk to cover them well. 
They nnist not boil; set on back of range and let them sim- 
mer, covered closely. When ready to serve, make a white 
sauce of two tablespoons butter, with enough flour added 
slowly for thickening; then add one pint sweet milk. When 
Ihoroughiy cooked, add the sweetbreads, which have been 
drained from the milk. 



Service Club Ccok Book. 



SWEETBREADS AND MUSHROOMS EN CASSEROLE. 

Blanch the sweetbreads, then place in a saucepan, cover 
with boiling water, add one-half teaspoon salt and simmer 
fifteen minutes; then drain and cut in half, using- a silver 
knife. For six persons prepare half a cupful of tiny diced 
carrots, string beans, white turnips, green peas and French 
beans; put vegetables in casserole, lay m sweetbreads and 
add eight fresh or twenty-four canned mushrooms, cut fine. 
Prepare a sauce as follows : Put two tablespoons of butter 
in a saucepan, two tablespoons chopped carrots, two table- 
spoons chopped onions, one tablespoon chopped celery; 
cover and cook ten minutes over a moderate fire, shaking 
and stirring occasionally. Add two tablespoons of flour 
and stir until a rich brown. Add one pint good brown 
stock, one-half bay leaf, salt and pepper to taste, two cloves, 
a sprig of parsley and a bit- of mace. ■ Cover and let simmer 
on back of stove two hours, then skim and strain. Over the 
sweetbreads and vegetables in casserole, pour enough of 
this sauce to cover, put on cover and fasten with a flour 
and w^ater paste, and bakfe in a moderate oven for three- 
quarters of an hour. 



HOME-MADE SAUSAGE. 

Three pounds fresh pork ground finely (one-third fat), 
or if not rich enough, use more fat, salt and pepper to taste, 
a little sage, freshly ground. (Be careful not to use too 
much salt.) Put the. chopped meat in a bowl and season; 
mix with the hands and form into small balls and fry. 



22 Service Ct.ue Cook Boo] 



FRIZZLED BEEF. 

Pick up fine, one-half pound of dried beef; heat the pan 
very hot and put the beef into it; let it frizzle till well 
curled, then add a bit of butter the size of a hickory nut, 
oiie and one-half cups of either sweet or sour cream and a 
cup and a half of sweet milk; let it come to a boil and 
thicken with a large spoonful of flour, well smoothed in 
cream: add a dash of pepper. Into the dish in which you 
intend serving the beef, break one egg and stir slightly 
with a fork ; then jiour the hot beef and gravy over the egg, 
stirring 'orisklv, and serve at once. 



SAVORY BEEF LOAF. 

Two pounds cliopped beef, one cup bread crumbs, three- 
quarters cup of sweet milk, two tablespoons of butter, one 
egg, one-fourth teaspoon of cayenne, one and one-half tea- 
spoons s-alt, a generous one-eighth teaspoon nutmeg and 
juice of one lemon. To the beef add the well blended sea- 
soning, lemon juice, then butter (melted), the bread 
crumbs, the well beaten egg, and lastly the milk. Press 
in shape and roll in bread crumbs, bake three-quarters of 
an hour and serve hot, or slice and serve cold. 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Three teaspoons of butter, seven teaspoons of flour, 
melted together, enough cream to make this like thin mush, 
one and one-half cups of chicken, chopped fine, one tea- 
spoon of onion juice, one teaspoon of lemon juice, one table- 
spoon chopped parsley, a pinch of mace, salt and red pep- 
per to taste. 



Service Club Cook Book. • 23 



VEAL LOAF. 

Three pounds veal, three slices salt pork (chopped fine), 
three eggs, one-half cup of cream, one tablespoon salt, pep- 
per and sage to taste. Stir well together and bake one and 
one-half hours. Leave loaf until cold, then cut in slices, 
and serve with catsup. 



WELSH RAREBIT (For Five or Six People). 

One pound mild cheese. Put one-half teaspoon butter 
in pan and melt, then put in cheese. As soon as it is half 
melted and bubbles, put in three tablespoons of ale, salt, a 
little wet mustard, a few drops Worcestershire sauce. Use 
Edelweiss ale. Stir constantly until stringy. 



YORKSHIRE PUDDING (For Roast Beef). 

Four eggs, one and one-quarter cups of milk, four bast- 
ing spoons flour, pepper and salt. Beat the eggs, add milk 
and flour. Put about seven basting spoons of roast beef 
drippings in a pan and then pour pudding dough into it. 
Bake in a medium oven. 



RAGOUT OF BEEF. 

Make a sauce of browned butter and flour, add a cupful 
of boiled Spanish chestnuts, one pint of mushrooms, one- 
half teaspoon of currant jelly, three pitted olives. Cut cold 
beef slices one-quarter. of an inch thick and lay them in the 
sauce just long enough to heat through. 




EGG TIMBALES. 

Beat six eggs well with a fork, add one teaspoon of salt, 
a dash of pepper, one teaspoon of chopped parsley, one- 
fourth teaspoon onion juice. Beat again and add one and 
one-half cups of milk. Put into Avell-buttered timbale 
moulds, place these in pan of hot water and cook in mod- 
erate oven twenty minutes. Serve with tomato sauce. 

EGG CROQUETTES. 

Five eggs, one tablespoon of butter, one-half tablespoon 
flour, one-half cup cream. Boil the eggs fifteen minutes, 
and chop yolks and whites separately. Melt butter in a 
saucepan, add flour and cream, and thicken. When cool, 
add chopped eggs, then add pepper, salt and sugar and let 
the whole get cold. Form into croquettes and fry in but- 
ter. Serve with cream sauce. 

EGGS A LA PORIS. 

One-half pint of cream, two tablespoons flour; boil 
twenty minutes. When it has boiled fourteen minutes, add 
one and one-half tumblers full of grated American cheese. 
Boil six eggs, not hard, but just enough so they can be re- 
moved from shell intact. Place the shelled eggs on strips of 
toast, pour the mixture, hot, over them, and serve at onc^. 



Service Clue Cook Book. 



SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH CHEESE. 

Four eggs, one salt spoon of salt, one salt spoon paprika, 
four tablespoons Parmesan cheese, one tablespoon butter, 
one tablespoon chopped parsley, four tablespoons stock. 
Break the eggs into a bowl, beat until the yolks and whites 
are blended, but not light; add stock and parsely and mix 
well. Melt butter in chafing dish, add the cheese and as 
soon as smooth turn in the eggs. Stir until the eggs are 
set, season and serve as soon as they are of the desired 
creamy consistency. 



Iff^g^tabbfi 



FANCY BAKED POTATO. 

Cut off the end of a baked potato, remove the inside, 
mash, add milk, butter, salt and pepper, the same as for 
mashed potatoes. Then place the mixture back in the 
shells, stick in the end of each a slice of bacon, fried crisp, 
place in the oven and heat through. If one prefers, grated 
cheese may be added to the potatoes before placing back in 
shells, in which case they should be heated through until 
the cheese melts. 



STEWED TOMATOES AND CELERY. 

Stew tomatoes the usual 'Way, and cook with them cel- 
ery cut in small pieces. The celery should be stewed until 
perfectly tender, and about a stalk should be used to a 
quart of tomatoes. 



CORN PUDDING. 

One pint milk, three eggs, six ears corn, two tablespoon- 
fuls butter, one teaspoon sugar. Grate corn from cob, beat 
whites and yolks of eggs separately, put corn and yolks 
together, stir, and add melted butter, then milk, sugar and 
a little salt, lastly whites of eggs. Bake as you would 
custard. 



Service Club Ccok Book. 27 



FRIED CREAM (Delicious). 

One pint of milk, five ounces of suo-ar (little more than 
half a cupful), butter the size of a hickory nut, two round- 
ing tablespoons cornstarch, yolks of three eggs, one round- 
in*? tablespoonful of flour, a stick of cinnamon one inch 
long, one-half teaspoonful vanilla. Put the cinnamon in 
the milk, Avhen it is about to boil, stir in the sugar, corn- 
starch and flour, (rub the cornstarch and flour together 
with two or three tablespoons of extra cold milk), stir over 
the fire for fully two minutes to cook w^ell the cornstarch 
and flour. Take it from the fire, stir in the beaten yolks of 
the eggs, and again place on the stove a few moments to 
set them. Now again taking it from the fire, remove the 
cinnamon, stir in the butter and vanilla, and pour it on 
a buttered platter until one inch high. When cold and 
stiff, cut the cream into squares of about two inches, roll 
carefully in sifted cracker crumbs, then in egg (slightly 
beaten and sweetened), then again in cracker crumbs. Put 
in a wire basket and cook in hot lard. When a good color, 
take it out, and put in the oven four or five minutes to bet- 
ter soften the cream, sprinkle over a little powdered sugar, 
and serve immediatelv. 



RICE CROQUETTES. 

Cook the rice in cold water until it boils, then pour off 
that water, and add milk, and cook until well done, then 
alioAv" it to get cold. Take one teaspoon of butter, scant 
cup of milk and cream, four crackers, crumbed, and cook 
together a few minutes. Mix this with the rice, adding 
salt, sugar and flavoring. Form into croquettes, and fry 
in ec'g and cracker crumbs. 



28 Service Club Ccok IBc 



CORN FRITTERS (For Six People). 

Six ears of corn, or one pint after grating, three eggs, 
beaten together very light, one teacup of flour, milk enough 
to make a thin batter, two teaspoons baking powder, one 
tablespoon butter, salt and pepper to taste. Drop on pan- 
cake griddle and fry. 



CORN PUDDING. 

Eight good-sized ears of corn, cut down with knife and 
rubbed out, then beat up light with yolks of two eggs, two 
cups of milk, a teaspoon of flour, salt and pepper, and a 
little butter. Just before putting into oven, fold into the 
mixture the whites of the two eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Cover with a tin, and bake half an hour, remove the tin, 
and let brown delicatelj^ 



CORN FRITTERS. 

Eight ears of corn, six tablespoons cream, six table- 
spoons milk, two eggs, one-half teaspoon salt. Cut and 
scrape the corn. xVdd to milk and cream sufficient flour to 
make a very thin batter. Add the eggs, beaten very light, 
and salt, then stir in the corn. Drop from point of table- 
spoon into hot, well-greased spider. Serve immediately. 



SWEET POTATOES. 

Parboil, skin, and cut in slices. Place layers of same 
in baking dish. Sprinkle with white sugar, adding bits of 
butter. Over this pour one teaspoonful of wine, and brown 
in moderatelv hot oven. 



Service Club Ccok Book. 29 



YAMS. 

Parboil, skin, cut in halves if very large, put in bottom 
of pan covered with Avater. Sprinkle well with bro^vn 
:sugar, and bake brown. Vacuum panned sugar is best. 



FRIED BANANAS WITH SAUCE. 

Fry the bananas a nice brown in deep fat, which will 
take about three minutes. Sauce is made as follows : One 
tablespoon flour fried a golden brown and a tablespoon but- 
ter mixed in; then add one-half cup boiling water and one 
•cup sugar. Boil until it becomes a syrup, then mix in 
one tablespoon Santa Croix rum. After frying the bananas, 
let them stand in the sauce a few minutes before serving. 



STEWED BEETS. 

One tablespoon of butter, one tablespoon of flour, 
browned, four tablespoons sugar, one pint of water, one- 
lialf cup of vinegar, four good-sized cooked beets, cut in 
squares. Serve hot 

SPAGHETTI. 

Break up spaghetti, boil slowly in water for one hour, 
then add milk, boiling until tender. Season with salt. 
'Grate cheese, putting thick layer in bottom of pan, next 
a layer of spaghetti, another of cheese, then spaghetti, and 
on top a thick layer of cheese. Brown in oven and serve 
3iot. 






CHICKEN SALAD (Mrs. E. P.). 

Two larg-e chickens should be put on in cold water and 
boiled until tender. Take the yolks of nine hard-boiled 
eggs, half a pint of olive oil, half a pint of vinegar, one 
gill of mixed mustard, a small teas})Oon of cayenne pep- 
per, a small teaspoon of salt, two large, or four small, 
heads of celery. Cut the meat of the fowls in narrow strips, 
not over an inch in length, cut the white parts of the cel- 
ery into pieces about an inch in length. Mix the celery 
and chicken well together and cover closely. With the back 
of a Avooden spoon, mash the yolks of the eggs to a per- 
fectly smooth paste, and then mix with the oil. vinegar^ 
ca>^tnn«- pepper, and salt, stirring for a long time until 
entirely smooth. When so mixed, cover this dressing and 
set it aside. Just five minutes before the salad is to be 
served, pour the dressing over the chicken and celery and 
mix thoroughly. If the dressing is poured over the meat 
too long before serving, the latter will become tough and 
hard. An excellent salad may be made in the same manner 
by substituting for the chicken a proportionate quantity of 
cold turkey. 

GEM MELON SALAD. 

Cut melons that have been carefully peeled into length- 
wise strips. Place three or four on lettuce leaves, and 
serve with mavonnaise dressing. 



Service Club Ccok Book. 31 



GRAPE FRUIT SALAD. 

Two grape fruit, cut in dice, one cup celery, cut in dice^ 
one pound grapes, seeded, mix with mayonnaise dressing 
and serve on lettuce. 



TOMATO JELLY. 

Take one can of tomatoes, or eight medium-sized to- 
matoes. Stew with them one heaping teaspoon cinnamon, 
three-quarters teaspoon ground cloves, one small onion, two 
bay leaves, salt and pepper to taste, two tablespoons vin- 
egar, and cook until tomatoes are soft. Dissolve one table- 
spoon gelatine in one-half cup cold water. Pass tomatoes 
through a sieve to remove seeds, and pour over gelatine 
while hot. Then mix into this chicken or veal cut up into 
small pieces, or two stalks of celery. Pour all into mould, 
and place on ice to set. When cold, serve with mayonnaise 
dressing and lettuce. 



BANANA SALAD. 

Slice four bananas into a bowl, pour over them one glass 
claret, juice of one pineapple, juice of two oranges, one 
cup of sugar, and one-fourth cup of water. Set on ice to 
cool tv/o hours. Serve on lettuce. 



CABBAGE SALAD. 

Chop cabbage very fine, then mix with it four sweet 
gTcen peppers, cut very fine, or pimento peppers. Stir in 
French dressing, to which has been added one tablespoon 
horseradish. This sliQuld be prepared seveji or eight hours 
before serving. 



32 Service Club Ccok Book. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of eight eggs, juice of one lemon, one tablespoon 
of C. & B. vinegar. Beat the yolks light, add three tea- 
spoons of mustard, two teaspoons salt, two-thirds cup of 
melted butter, then pour in lemon juice and vinegar slowly. 
Add one teaspoon sugar, a dash of red pepper and paprika, 
and cook slowly in a double boiler, stirring all the time to 
keep it smooth. Before using this for salad, add whipped 
creain, as nmch as it will stand, also a little oil, if desired. 
(This quantity serves twenty-five.) 

POMEGRANATE SALAD. 

Remove the seeds from a ripe pomegranate. Arrange 
lettuce on a platter with the smallest leaves in center. Scat- 
ter the pomegranate seeds over them, and cover all with a 
French dressing. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Boil several large potatoes, and when cold, cut them up 
into small cubes. Mix with a can of asparagus tips, sliced 
rather fine. Pour over all a French dressing, and serve on 
lettuce. 

TOMATO ASPIC SALAD. 

Boil down six tomatoes, one tablespoon of butter, one 
bay leaf, one clove, a pinch of red pepper, salt to taste, one 
teaspoon of mustard and one tablespoon of sugar. Remove 
from stove and strain; add one tablespoon of wine, two 
cups of chicken stock, two tablespoons gelatine. Set on 
stove again until dissolved, and strain into timbale moulds. 
Serve on lettuce with mavonnaise dressing. 



Sekvue Club Cook Book. 33 



PEAR SALAD. 

For each person to be served place a half pear on let- 
tuce leaves, and serve with mayonnaise dressing. The pears 
should be canned and very firm. 



BAR-LE-DUC SALAD. 

Dip head lettuce leaves in French dressing. For one 
portion, place slice of cream cheese on leaves, then pour 
over cheese one teaspoon of bar le-duc. One cake of cheese 
serves six. 

TOMATO JELLY. 

Two cans tomatoes, one small head of celery, a little 
onion juice, a little ground mace, salt, pepper, and one 
bay leaf. Cook one hour, and add two-thirds of a box of 
gelatine, after having cooled. Pour into small moulds and 
serve with mavonnaise as salad. 



ROQUEFORT CHEESE SALAD. 

One head of lettuce, one-(|uarter pound of Roquefort 
cheese, German onions (pickled), French dressing. Line a 
bowl with lettuce leaves; grate the cheese, and sprinkle 
over the lettuce. Add the onions and pour the French 
dressinsr over all. 



TOMATO JELLY. 

One pint tomatoes, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon pep- 
per, one teaspoon onion juice, one-fourth box gelatine. 
Strain the tomatoes, add other ingredients, and let stand 
for half an hour. Boil up and pour into mould. 



34 Service Club Cook Book. 



FRENCH DRESSING. 

One tablespoonful oi" vineg-ar to three of oil, one-lialf 
teaspoon oi salt, one-i'onrtli teaspoon black pepper. ]\Iix 
salt and pepper with oil, then slowly stir in vinegar. For 
a hig-hly-seasoned dressing add a little paprika, Worcester- 
sbire sauce, grated horseradish, nnistard or catsup as pre- 
ferred. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Beat well yolk of one egg. Into this pour salad oil, about 
one cupful, in thread-like stream, beating constantly. Thin 
to desired consistency with vinegar or lemon juice. Season 
with salt, paprika and mustard. Egg and oil should be 
thoroughly chilled before using. This mixture should be 
kept on ice until needed. 

DRESSING FOR COLD SLAW. 

One cup vinegar, one-half teaspoon salt, one-half tea- 
spoon mustard, two teaspoons sugar, and a little pepper. 
Let the above boil slowly, and add one tablespoon butter 
and one teaspoon flour, creamed together. Boil five min- 
utes. Beat 3^olk of one egg, then over yolk of egg pour 
the hot mixture very slowly to prevent curdling, beating 
well until all is in. Let cool, and pour over finely shredded 
raw cabbage just before serving. 

CHEESE BALLS (No. 1), 

One cup of grated cheese, whites of two eggs beaten 
stiif, dash of red pepper, ten drops Worcestershire sauce. 
Roll in cracker crumbs and dip in hot lard. This quantity 
will make nine bnlis. 



Service Club Ccok Book. 35 

CHEESE FONDUE. 

One cup scakLxl milk, one cup stale bread crumbs, one- 
fourth pound of clieese, cut in pieces or grated, one table- 
spoon of butter, one-half teaspoon salt, yolks three eggs, 
whites three eggs. ^lix first five ingredients, add yolks of 
eggs, beaten until lemon colored, cut and fold in whites 
of eggs, beaten until stifi. Pour in a buttered baking dish 
and bake fifteen or twentv minutes in a slow oven. 



CHEESE BALLS (No. 2). 

Two eggs, the whites only, beaten lightly, one-half cup 
of grated cheese rolled in cracker crumbs, and dipped into 
boiling lard until a beautiful brown. A little cayenne pep- 
per added will improve it. Use rich full-cream Herkimer 
cheese. 



PREPARED NEUFCHATEL CHEESE. 

Add sufficient cream to cheese to make it the consistency 
of a thick paste; add enough paprika to color it a decided 
pink, add chopped chives, mould in desired form and serve 
with toasted crackers. 



CHEESE BALLS (No. 3). 

Beat whites of two eggs to a froth, and add two cups o^ 
grated American cheese, one-half teaspoon salt, a dash of 
cayenne pepper. Form into balls the size of a marble, and 
roll in fine bread crumbs. Fry in basket until brown and 
serve with salad. Especially nice with lettuce. 



36 Service Club Cook Book. 



CHEESE STRAWS (Serve with Salad). 

One cup of flour, one-quarter pound of butter, enough 
to make a good paste, four ounces Parmesan cheese, one- 
half teaspoon of salt, a dash of cayenne pepper. Work to 
a stiff paste (to roll), adding a little cold water, if neces- 
sary. Stand in a cool place for a short time, roll out very 
thin and cut into straws (about five inches long and three- 
quarters of an inch wide), place in greased tin and bake ten 
minutes in a moderate oven. They should be straw-colored 
and very crisp. 



WELSH RABBIT CRACKERS. 

Use fresh oblong wafers, grate soft cheese; spread 
thickly on top of cracker. Place in pan under hot broiler 
for one m.inute, just before serving. (Delicious with salads.) 




MINCE MEAT FOR PIES. 

Two quarts chopped meat, four quarts chopped apples, 
oue quart boiled cider, one cpiart vinegar, one-half pint 
brandy, or pint of wine, two quarts raisins, one quart cur- 
rants, one quart molasses, one tablespoon cloves, one table- 
spoon allspice, one tablespoon cinnamon, three pints sug'ar, 
one cup salt, one teaspoon pepper. Boil until apples are 
soft. Four quarts apples equal to one-half bushel in bulk. 
Two quarts meat equal to seven pounds in bulk. 



OLD-FASHIONED LEMON PIE. 

One cup Avater, one cup sugar, two eggs, one even tea- 
spoonfal of flour, one lemon rind grated, and pulp sliced 
fine. Beat this with the iiour, sugar and water, adding the 
eggs last. Bake with two crusts. 



PUMPKIN PIE. 

Two quarts of pumpkin boiled and strained. ]\lash one 
pint of pu7npkin, add one tablespoon of butter, beaten with 
a half cup of sugar, one-luilf cup of milk, three eggs beaten 
separately, one teaspoonfnl of cinnamon, one of mace, one 
of rosewater, and two tablespoons of brandy. 



38 Service Club Cook Book. 



LEMON PIE. 

Take the grated i-ind and juice of one large lemon, one 
cup of sugar, yolks of three eggs, two tablespoons of flour, 
butter the size of a hickory nut. Beat the yolks of the 
eggs, add the sugar, lemon, flour and butter, and stir to- 
gether until it is smooth and light. Then add half pint of 
boiling water, stirring thoroughly. Pour into the crust, and 
bake the same as a custard pie. Beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, add two tablespoonfuls of sugar. When 
the pie is done, take from the oven, spread with the frost- 
ing, and return to the oven until it is a light brown. 



EXCELLENT LEMON PIE. 

One lemon, one cup boiling Avater, one cup sugar, three 
tablespoons cornstarch, one teaspoon butter, three eggs. 
To boiling water add the cornstarch, mixed with sugar, 
cook this three minutes, add yolk of eggs, well beaten, then 
the lemon juice and grated rind and butter. Cook a few 
minutes, but not enough to make the mixture stiff'. Put this 
into the crust, which has been already baked, and cover top 
Avith meringue made of Avhites of eggs, slightly sweetened. 
Place in oven until a light brown. 



PuiitngH mxh ^amtB 



PUDDING SAUCE. 

One heaping dessertspoonful of cornstarch, one-half pint 
boiling water, butter size of an egg, one-fourth pound gran- 
ulated sugar, strip of fresh lemon peel, one-half teacupful 
sherry wine. ]\Iix cornstarch with a little cold water till 
smooth, stir quickly into boiling water, boil three minutes, 
stirring all the time; add butter, sugar and lemon peel. 
Let stand at back of range till ready for use. Add wine just 
before serving. 



STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 

IMake a creamy, hard sauce of sugar and butter. Add 
the beaten white of one egg and one cup of strawberries 
mashed to a pulp. Any fruit pulp may be used. This is 
a good sauce for fruit pudding. 



DATE PUDDING. 

One-half pound suet (chopped fine), one pound dates, 
one-half pound bread crumbs, one-half pound sugar, one 
cup milk, one cup flour, one nutmeg, two eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful baking soda. ]\Iix dry ingredients thoroughly, add milk, 
eii'2rs and soda; steam four hours. 



40 Service Club Cook Book. 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One and one-half cups cracker crninbs. rolled line: three 
tablespoons Baker's chocolate iirated, bntter size of an e^g, 
one cnp of milk, boiled: two-thirds teaspoonfnl salt. Pour 
milk over chocolate, butter and cracker crumbs: while boil- 
ing, mix thoroughly, then add salt, and one cup granu- 
lated sngar. Beat ^vhites of four egrg's to a stii¥ froth, mix 
well, put in greased double boiler, and steam one hour. 
Serve with a hard sauce. 



GRAHAM PUDDING. 

Two cups Graham tiour, one cup milk (sour), one-half 
cup molasses, one-half teaspoonful soda, one cup chopped 
raisins, one-half teaspoonful salt, one cup chop]ied almonds. 
Steam for three honrs. I^se following sauce. 



SAUCE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one egg, white and 
yolk beaten separately: add wine to suit, or one-fonrth cup 
boiling water and teaspoonful vanilla. Stir until it comes 
to a boil. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Boil one quart of milk, turn it on a pint of sifted Indian 
meal, stir well; add three tablespoons of sugar, two of but- 
ter or suet chopped fine : a little salt, tAvo teaspoons of cin- 
namon, one teaspoon of ginger: mix three large tablespoons 
of wheat flour gradually with a pint of milk, have it free 
from bimps and stir into the pudding. When the whole 
is lukewarm, add three well beaten eggs. Bake two or three 
hours. 



Service Club Ccor-: Book. 41 

SUET PUDDING. 

One enp molasses, one cup chopped raisins, one cup suet, 
one cnp milk, three cups flour, three teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, ground spices to taste (cinnamon, cloves and all- 
spice). Steam three hours. Use following sauce. 



WHITE SAUCE. 

One-half cup butter, whipped to a cream, one cup pul- 
verized sugar put in slowly, Avhite of an egg, not beaten; 
set in boilins: water ten or fifteen minutes. 



FRUIT PUDDING. 

Three oranges cut in small pieces, cover with sugar and 
let stand an hour. Pour off the juice. Cut th]'ee bananas 
in small pieces and put on top of the orange in a mould, 
put a layer of grated pineapple over this. Dissolve one- 
fourth box gelatine in cold water, add it to the orange 
juice and let it get boiling hot. Let it cool a little, and pour 
over fruit. Serve with wliipped cream. 



ORANGE PUDDING. 

Peel and cut five oranges into thin slices and pour over 
them one cup Avhite sugar. One pint of milk heated to 
boiling point in double boiler, add yolks of three eggs, one 
and one-half tablespoons of cornstarch, made smooth with 
a little of the cold milk : and sugar to taste. Stir constantly 
until thickened, then pour over the fruit. Beat the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth, adding a tablespoon of pulverized, 
sugar. Spread over the top of pudding and set in oven 
a few moments to brown. (May be served hot or cold.) 



42 Service Clue Cook Book. 



FIG PUDDING. 

One })()mid iiiis, elK^j^ped, one cup bi'owji sugar, one cup 
sweet milk, two smail cups suet, cliopped, three eggs, two 
cups bread crumbs, one and half teaspoons soda. Pour 
njilk over bread crumbs and soak till soft ; then add sugar, 
yolks of eggs and soda ; then the suet and figs, Avell floured. 
Add the Avhites of eggs last. Put into mould, and steam 
for three hours. Serve with the following sauce. 

SAUGE FOR FIG PUDDING. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, oue Oi:^ (beat white 
and yolk separately), cream butter and sugar, add yolk 
of egg. Heat in a double boiler and add a wineglass of 
brandy, and the Avhitr^ of egg just before serving. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

One cup yellow cornmeal, one-half cup molasses, three 
pints milk, two eggs, one teaspoon ginger, one-fourth cup 
brown sugar, one-haif cup butter. Scald the meal in half 
the milk, add rest of the ingredients, except the butter. 
Cut butter in small pieces, and put on top of the pudding. 
Bake one hour. Stir often the first half hour. Serve with 
hard sauce. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

One cup molasses (not too dark), one cup of chopped 
suet, one cup of milk, one large cup of raisins, stoned and 
chopped ; one small cup of currants, one-cpiarter cup of 
citron, diced; one cup of bread crund3s (dry) ; two cups of 
flour, one teaspoon of ginger, cinnamon, allspice and soda, 
and half a nutmeg, grated. Steam three hours, and serve 
with burniuii' brandv and a hot sauce. 



Service Club Cook Book. 43 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One and one-half pounds raisins (seeded), one and one- 
half pounds currants, one and one-half pounds sugar, three- 
fourths pound flour, three-fourths pound bread crumbs, one 
and one-half pounds suet, six ounces citron, eicrht eggs, a 
few chopped almonds, one and one-half wineglass brandy, 
on^ and one-half wineglass sherry, one and one-half wine- 
glass nougat, a little salt. Sift the bread crumbs, chop the 
suet very fine, slice citron and almonds, mix all together, and 
add wine last. Boil or steam three or four hours. 



3(r0 (Htmm, 



iFroHpn Srssrrts 
m\h i'aurrs for samr 



COFFEE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 

Beat yolks of two eggs, with one-fourth cup of granu- 
lated sugar, till light and creamy. Add half cup of freshly- 
made, clear, strong colfee, and cook over hot water, stirring 
constantly, until it begins to thicken. Set aside till cold. 
Then add a cup of whipped cream. Serve plain ice cream 
in glasses, and pour the sauce over the top. 



CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 

Put one-fourth of a cup ot sugar, and one-fourth of a 
cup plain grated chocolate in a sauce|)an, and stir over the 
fire until melted. Add one-half cup of boiling water, and 
simmer ten minutes. 



MAPLE MOUSSE. 

Beat the yolks of six eggs light, pour over them three- 
fourths cup of maple syrup, made very hot. Put over fire 
in double boiler and cook (stirring all the time) until it 
thickens. Take from stove and beat until cool. Whip half 
pint of cream, and beat the whites of eggs to stiff froth, 
stir very lightly into the custard, turn into a mould and 
pack in ice and salt. This should stand for at least four 
hours. 



Service Club Cook Book. 45 

HOT CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 

Put in kettle one cup cream, and one-half of a vanilla 
bean. Let same come to a boil, then add chocolate, three 
squares broken up, and 07ie teaspoon sugar. Stir until dis- 
solved and strain through tin strainer. Just before serv- 
ing add three teaspoons whipped cream. Serve very hot. 
(Delicious!) 

TAPIOCA ICE CREAM. 

One cup tapioca, one quai-t sweet cream, three lemons. 
Cook tapioca until it jellies, add cream and juice of lemons, 
sweeten to taste. Beat stilt* the whites of two eggs and add 
just before freezing. 

FROZEN FRUIT PUDDING. 

One pint of cream, chopped or cut fruits; sugar. Whip 
cream to a stiH' froth, sweeten to taste, add combination of 
fruits, such as pineapple, cut in dice; ^Maraschino cherries, 
bananas, or fruit in season. Pour in mould and pack in 
ice and salt, and allow to stand for two hours. This w^ll 
serve six persons. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

One pint cream, one pint milk, two eggs, beaten light, 
tAvo cups sugar, five tablespoons grated chocolate. Heat 
milk in double boiler, pour it over beaten eggs and sugar. 
Rub chocolate smooth in little milk, then add to mixture. 
Put all in double boiler, and cook till thick. When cold, add 
cream, and freeze. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM. 

]\Iay be made by the same recipe by adding one cup of 
verv strong coffee instead of the chocolate. 



46 Service Clue Ccok Book. 



FROZEN EGGNOG. 

Make a boiled custard of a pint of milk, the yolks of 
four eggs and one cup of sugar. SAveeten one pint of thick 
cream and whip stiff. Freeze the custard, then add the 
whipped cream. Just before serving add brandy to taste. 



FIG PUDDING (Frozen). 

One pint of cream whipped thoroughly, ten figs, steamed 
and cooled and cut in small bits and added to cream, two 
tablespoons sugar, two tablespoons vanilla or sherry. Put 
in a mould and pack in ice and coarse salt. 



CHOCOLATE PARFAIT. 

One cup granulated sugar, boiled with water to a 
thick syrup. Pour slowly over two squares of melted choco- 
late. ]\rix thoroughly and when cool, add gradually the 
well-beaten yolks of four eggs. Cook in double boiler until 
thick, stirring constantly. Take from fire and beat until 
cool and light. Flavor Avith vanilla and add a pint of cream 
whipped very stiff. Put in mold and pack in ice and salt 
(equal parts) four hours or longer. 



MAPLE PARFAIT. 

One cup of maple syrup, heat in double boiler, beat yolks 
of three eggs very light, and pour hot syrup slowly over 
them, beating all the time. Put over fire in double boiler, 
and cook until thick and creamy, stirring all the time. 
When cold add a pint of good thick cream, well whipped. 
Freeze the same as chocolate parfait. Serve with whipped 
cream. 



iMtBrpUanpmtH QI0I& ipBSprts 



S^^^^^^s^^Q^^^^^SCr^tC^^^^f^b^ 



CHARLOTTE POLANAISE. 

INlake the day previous a sponge cake, bake in a square 
tin; next day cut oil top crust (one inch thick), take out 
insicie, keeping' to]) crust. INiake a yellow charlotte russe as 
follows : Yolks of three eggs, one-sixth box of gelatine, one- 
half pint cream whipped stiff; and a white charlotte russe 
as follows: Whites of three eggs, half cup powdered sugar, 
one-sixth box gelatine, one-half pint cream, whipped stiff. 
Divide yellow russe in two portions, put one-half pound of 
chocolate in one portion, mix well and flavor with vanilla. 
Line ca]s:e with this. Now divide white russe in two por- 
tions, flavor one portion with rose leaves and put on top 
of chocolate layer; flavor the other with strawberry, next 
put on a yelloAv layer and next a pink, then put on top 
crust of cake and cover whole with chocolate icing. Let 
it stand in cool place two hours and then serve. 



SEA FOAM. 

Whip whites of six eggs, one-half cup of powdered 
sugar, sifted four times, one-half cup of flour, sifted four 
times; fold these gently into the beaten eggs, flavor with 
lemon or vanilla, and bake twenty minutes in muffin tins. 
Kemove inside and All with whipped cream. Serve. 



48 Service Club Coox Book. 

STRAWBERRY DESSERT. 

AVash and strain one quart of strawberries, put in glass 
bowl and cover with powdered sugar. Pour over this the 
juice of two oranges and half a cup of claret. Let stand 
in ice water until served. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

Boil one-half pouiid of i^runes, two small sticks of cin- 
namon, and a pinch of salt together, then strain through a 
sieve. ^Measure off three cupful s, add one-half box of Nel- 
son's gelatine (dissolved in water to cover), one cup of 
sugar, one tablespoon vanilla, three tablespoons sherry. Put 
in mould and serve cold with cream. It takes all day to 
stiffen. 

A DELICIOUS BLANC MANGE. 

Soak one-third box of best gelatine in one-half cup cold 
water. When soft set on range until dissolved. Take one 
pint rich cream, sweeten to taste, add juice and grated 
rind of one orange, and beat well. Then strain the dis- 
solved gelatine, and add slowly (to the cream), beating 
constantly, until it is stiff. If it is to be moulded, stop 
beating before it gets too stiff. Serve either with canned 
apricots or w^ith cream. 

TRILBY CREAM. 

One generous (luart of cream, one-fourth teaspoon al- 
mond extract, one-third pound candied cherries, one-half 
pound marshmallows, cut in quarters, one-half teacup 
blanched almonds, chopped fine. Season the cream before 
whipping and add three tablespoons pulverized sugar just 
as it begins to thicken. Serve in sherbet glasses. This 
amount serves twelve persons. 



Service Club G ok Book. 49 

PEACH TAPIOCA. 

One small cup tapioca (not instantaneous), wel' soaked. 
Pour over it one pint boiling hot water, and sweeten. Set 
on range to keep hot. IMake caramel by putting a heaping 
tablespoon of granulated sugar in saucepan, and letting it 
melt and brown. Then pour over it the dissolved tapioca, 
and stir until the caramel has colored the mixture and is 
smooth. Pare and slice about one dozen ripe peaches and 
sweeten. Pour this over tapioca and flavor to taste. Set 
on ice and serve very cold wdth cream. It is better made 
one dav before serving. 



PEACH SHORTCAKE. 

One i)int of flour, tAvo teaspoons of baking powder, one- 
half teaspoon salt, one-half cup sugar, one and one-half 
gills of milk, three tablespoons of butter, one wel] beaten 
egg. Slice peaches and put in with mixture. 



COFFEE CREAM. 

One-half box Cox's gelatine, one small cup sugar, one 
pint boiling strong cofl'ee, one pint cream. Pour hot cofl:ee 
on gelatine and sugar and stir until they are dissolved. 
When mixture is cool, stir in cream and pour into mould. 



PRUNE WHIP. 

TAventy-six large prunes, whites of six eggs, beaten stiff, 
six tablespoons sugar. Bake ^or one-half hour in moderate 
oven, in pan placed in another pan of very hot water. Let 
it cool in the pan of water, then place in the refrigerator. 
When verA^ cold serA'e Avith AA^hipped cream. 



so Service Ci.ub Cook Book. 

BAKED PEACHES. 

Peel the peaches, leaving in the stone ; place in a porce- 
lain pan, sprinkle with sugar, and pour in enough water so 
that the peaches stand in about an inch of water. Bake 
slowly until they are brown. Serve with whipped cream. 

MACAROON CREAM DESSERT. 

Soak one and one-half tablespoons of gelatine in one- 
fourth cup of cold water. Make a custard of two cups of 
scalded milk, yolks of three eggs, one-third of a cup of 
sugar, and a little salt. Add the soaked gelatine, when dis- 
solved strain and cool. Add two-thirds of a cup of pounded 
macaroons, one teaspoon vanilla. Stir until the mixture 
begins to thicken, then add the whites of the eggs beaten 
stiff and dry. Put in mould in refrigerator. Serve cold 
with whipped cream. 

FIG DESSERT. 

A dessert easily prepared is made by stewing figs in 
water that covers them well. A little sugar should be 
added, and the whole cooked until the figs are tender. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

FRUIT PUNCH. 

One dozen oranges, one dozen bananas, one pineapple, 
two quarts straAvberries, twelve lemons. Take the juice, 
only, of six lemons, and pare and cut up six; pare and cut 
up the oranges, pare and cut up the pineapple. Put all 
the fruits together, make a thick syrup of sugar and water 
and Avhen cool add to fruit and let stand about ten hours. 
Then add water and ice. . One pint of claret or any light 
wine maj" then be put in, if desired. 



Service Club Cook Book. 51 



COFFEE RUSSE. 

One pint cream, whites of two egg's, one cup coffee, one 
heaping tablespoon gelatine, one-fourth cup granulated 
sugar, one-half cup pulverized sugar. Whip the cream per- 
fectly stiff, with pulverized sugar, add whites of eggs, 
beaten stiff'. For the coffee, grind very fine, and boil for 
half an hour in about two cups of water, strain through 
cheesecloth, then add gelatine, and after it is melted, add 
the granulated sugar. Let this cool but not stiff'en, then 
whip it into the cream. Line a mould with lady fingers, 
pour in the cream and set away to cool. 



CHOCOLATE RUSSE. 

May be made after the above recipe, using one-eighth 
cake of chocolate in place of coff'ee liquid. 



BAKED APPLE DESSERT. 

Pare and core choice apples, fill with hickory nut meats, 
and a little chopped apple, sprinkle with sugar and cover 
while baking. Serve with Avhipped cream. 



VANILLA SOUFFLE. 

One cup milk, one-third cup flour, one tablespoon but- 
ter, two tablespoons sugar. Pinch of salt and whites of 
four eggs beaten separately. Teaspoon of vanilla. Bake 
forty minutes. 

RASPBERRY SOUFFLE. 

Whites of six eggs Tjeaten stiff', four tablespoonfuls rasp- 
berry jam. Bake one-half hour in moderate oven. 



52 Service Club Cook Book. 



DUTCH PEACH CAKE. 

Make biscuit dough. Spread on long- tin. Cut peaches 
in quarters and lay in rows. Sprinkle over sugar and a 
little cinnamon or nutmeg. Use hard sauce. 



STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE. 

i\Iake thin custard of two eggs, one pint of milk, and 
sugar to taste, flavor with vanilla. About twenty minutes 
before serving- put the custard on thin slices of sponge cake 
or lady ringers, and when the cake is thoroughly moistened, 
add mashed strawlierries and whipped cream. 

KOUMISS. 

Three quarts milk, one yeast cake, three tablespoons 
sugar. He.it milk slowly to D8" P'ahrenheit, stirring while 
it heats. Dissolve yeast and sugar in the milk. Put into 
sealed bottles, keep at a temperature of 70^ for twelve hours 
and then put in a ct^ld place. It is ready to drink when it 
has thickened. 

CLARET PUNCH. 

One quart of claret, one bunch of mint, chopped in 
small pieces: two cups sugar, three tablespoons rum, one- 
half orange, cut in small pieces; two quarts broken ice. I\Iix 
all ingredients, except claret, one hour before time to use, 
adding claret just before serving. 



(Htxkts anb Ol00kt0B 



FRUIT CAKE. 

Three pounds raisins, two pounds currants, one pound 
citron, one-half pound orange peel (candied), one-half 
pound lemon peel (candied), one-half pound cherries 
(candied), one pound butter, one pound sugar, one pound 
flour, eight eggs, one cup New Orleans molasses, two table- 
spoons each of ground cinnamon and mace, one taMespoon 
each of ground allspice and cloves: a wineglass of brandy 
and one-half teaspoon soda. Cream butter and sugar, add 
yolks of eggs, then brandy, then sifted flour, molasses, fruit 
and spices, and lastly the soda dissolved in a little water, 
and whites of eggs, not beaten very stiff. Bake three or 
four hours in slow oven. 



DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE. 

One-half cup sweet milk, one-half cup grated bitter choc- 
olate and one-half cup brown sugar. Boil these until thick 
as cream in double boiler. Then let cool. One cup brown 
sugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs, two-thirds cup milk, 
vanilla flavoring, two cups flour, two teaspoons baking 
powder. Cream butter and sugar, add eggs, well beaten; 
milk and vanilla. Mix well, beat in mixture boiled, then 
add flour and baking powder. Bake in layers and put to- 
gether with white icing or marshmallow icing. 



54 Service Club Cook Book. 



MARSHMALLOW ICING. 

One Clip white sugar, one-third cup water, one teaspoon- 
fui vinegar, whites of two eggs, one-fourth pound marsh- 
mallow^s. Boil together sugar, Avater and vinegar until it 
threads, about five or six minutes. Stir hot syrup into 
beaten whites of eggs, then add niarshmallows, put back 
on stove and stir until niarshmallows are dissolved. 



FEATHER CAKE. 

One egg, one tablespoon butter, two-thirds cup of milk, 
two cups of flour, one cup of sugar, two teaspoons baking 
powder. Cream butter and sugar, add milk. Beat egg sep- 
arately but add together. Sift flour two or three times, 
sift baking powder in flour. 



SPONGE CAKE. 

One tumbler sugar, one tumbler eggs, one tumbler flour, 
grated rind of one lemon, juice of one-half lemon, a little 
salt. Beat eggs, sugar and rind of lemon together fifteen 
or lAventy minutes, then stir flour in carefully, and lastly 
the juice of the lemon. 



SPONGE CAKE. 

One cup powdered sugar, one small cup sifted flour, four 
eggs, small teaspoon baking powder, a pinch of salt, one 
teaspoon vanilla, one-half cup boiling water. Beat eggs 
hard, then add sugar, beat again; add flour and baking 
powder (mixed beforehand) lastly, add boiling water. 
Bake in shallow square pan. AVhen done, break in pieces 
and serve. 



Service Ci.ue Cook Book. 55 



MAGGIE'S "Q. E." CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two cups of flour, three-fourths cup of butter, whites 
of five eggs, one cup milk, two cups sugar, two even tea- 
spoons baking powder. Use following filling : 



CHOCOLATE FILLING. 

To one-half cake of Baker's chocolate take two cups 
granulated sugar. Soak chocolate imtil dissolved, then add 
two cups of sugar, and boil tAventy minutes. Strain through 
fine strainer,- and use. 



SUNSHINE CAKE No. 1. 

Yolks of six eggs, whites of eleven eggs, beaten stiff, 
one and one-half cups granulated sugar, one cup flour, one 
teaspoon cream of tartar, sifted in flour four times. Mix 
all together, and bake one hour in sIoav oven. 



SUNSHINE CAKE No. 2. 

Whites of eleven eggs, beaten stiff, one and one-half 
tumblers powdered sugar, sifted four times, one tumbler 
of flour sifted four times, one pinch of salt added to whites 
of eggs. Yolks of eggs beaten stiff, flavor with lemon or 
vanilla. Bake fiftv minutes in a slow oven. 



POUND* CAKE. 

Ten eggs beaten separately, one pound butter, one pound 
sugar, one pound flour. Flavor w^ith vanilla, and bake two 
hours in a slow oven. 



56 Service Club Ccok Book. 

LAYER CAKE. 

One scant cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup sweet 
milk, whites of five eggs, three cups flour, two and one- 
half teaspoons baking powder. Sugar and butter creamed, 
then add milk, flour sifted three times, into which baking 
poAvder has been stirred: add whites of eggs last. 

COFFEE CAKE No. 1. 

One cup strong colf'ee, one cup sugar, one egg, two tea- 
spoons cinnamon, one pound raisins, one teaspoon cloves, 
four cups flour, one teaspoon soda. Beat cake well, adding 
fruit last. One scant cup chopped nuts may be added. 



COFFEE CAKE No. 2. 

One-half cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one large cup 
sweet milk, two eggs, one-half teaspoon of cinnamon, cur- 
rants, salt and flour. ]\lelt butter in nnlk, warmed: add 
dash of salt, and flour enough to make stitt' batter, add eggs 
and yeast. Raise over night and next morning add cur- 
rants and sprinkle cinnamon on top. Bake slowly. 



GERMAN SPICE CAKE. 

Break two eggs into a bowl, beat until very light, then 
add one cup of granulated sugar, one cup of sour cream, one 
teaspoon of cloves, one teaspoon allspice, one teaspoon nut- 
meg, one and one-half cups of flour, into which put a pinch 
of salt and a teaspoon of soda. Sift well together, add to 
the mixture and then put in one cup of chopped nuts and 
raisins. Bake in two layers and put together with boiled 
icins". 



Service Club Cook Book. 57 



CARAMEL CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one and one-half 
cups flour, three egg-s, one and one-half teaspoons baking 
powder. Cream butter and sugar, add beaten eggs, stir bak- 
ing powder into flour and add to butter, sugar and eggs. 
Beat for five minutes and place in buttered tins. 



CARAMEL FILLING. 

One cup brown sugar, one-half cup cream, one-third cup 
butter. Beat sugar and butter together, add cream and 
boil till thick enough to spread. 



DOLLY VARDEN CAKE. 

Two-thirds cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup 
milk, three cups flour, three eggs, two teaspoons baking 
powder, lemon flavoring. Divide cake in two parts. Make 
the dai-k part by adding one cup seeded raisins, one-half 
cup currants, one-half cake citron, one tablespoonful mo- 
lasses, one teaspoon each of cinnamon, allspice, and cloves. 
Bake in three layers, dark at top and bottom. Icing: whites 
of tliree eggs, and one and one-half cups of sugar. 



ICE CREAM CAKE. 

Two cups pulverized sugar, three-fourths cup of but- 
ter, whites of seven eggs, one cup of milk, one cup of corn- 
starch, two cups of flour, two teaspoons baking powder. 
Frosting for same : Tv\^o cups sugar, one-third cup boiling 
water, whites of two (^ggs, one-third teaspoon tartaric acid, 
aiid a little vanilla. 



58 Service Clue Cook Book. 



COFFEE CAKE. 

One Clip of butter, one cup of cotfee, one cup of sugar, 
one cup of molasses, two cups of chopped fruit (raisins and 
currants), three cups of flour, four eggs, one teaspoonful 
cloves, tAvo teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of 
soda. Bake slowlv. 



ALMOND CREAM CAKE. 

^xlake a white cake same as for jelly cake and bake. 
Take three eggs separate and beat very light. Add to the 
yolks one cup of pulverized sugar and one pound almonds, 
blanched and pounded to a paste. Vanilla to flavor. Then 
stir in a cup of sour cream. Add to the well beaten whit?s, 
one or two teaspoons of pulverized sugar and stir them into 
the mixture. Spread on the cakes and pile them up. 



MOLASSES SPONGE CAKE. 

Put two tablespoons of melted butter in a cup, fill with 
molasses, yolks of two eggs, six tablespoons of boiling 
water, one enid one-half cups of flour, one teaspoon of soda, 
a little salt and nutmeg, and one teaspoon each of cinna- 
mon and cloves, if desired. Bake in two layers, and put 
too-ether with boiled frosting. 



CHOCOLATE FROSTING. 

Whites of two eggs well beaten, one-half cup water, two 
cups granulated sugar, three-eighths cake Baker's choco- 
late. Boil water and sugar until the syrup threads. Then 
slowly beat this into whites of eggs. IMelt chocolate and 
add butter size of a hickorv nut. Then stir all well. 



Service Club Ccok Book. f9 



B. B.'S RICE CAKES. 

Boil one-half cup rice thorouglily ; two eggs beaten well, 
one pint milk, one cup wheat flour, one-half teaspoon salt. 
]\[ix rice, eggs, and milk together. Tvro teaspoons baking- 
powder. 



GINGER POUND CAKE. 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, one cup milk, one cup 
molasses, one tablespoon ginger, one teaspoon cinnamon, 
one teaspoon allspice, one teaspoon soda, three cups flour. 



MARSHMALLOW FILLING. 

Dissolve two ounces of gum arable in one-half cup 
of warm water. Strain into a granite saucepan. Stir in 
three-fourths of a cup of granulated sugar. Set the sauce- 
pan into another Avith boiling water and stir fifteen minutes. 
Then remove and beat until stiff and white. Heat again 
and blend in the beaten whites of two eggs and one tea- 
spoon of vanilla. When partially cool spread between 
cakes. Place marshmallows on top of cake, and set in oven 
long enough for them to soften. Smooth w^ith hot knife, and 
cover with icing. 



GRANDMA'S TAYLOR CAKE. 

One and one-half cups butter, fiv^e eggs, one and one-half 
cups sugar, one cup molasses, one cup sour milk, one tea- 
spoon saleratus, five cups flour, a small bowl of seeded rais- 
ins, chopped, one teaspoon of ground cinnamon, one grated 
nutmeg, one-half teaspoon ground cloves, one-fourth tea- 
spoon allspice, a AvinegJass of brandy. 



6o Service Club Ccok Book. 



B. B.'S GERMAN PUFFS. (Fine.) 

Four fresh eggs, well beaten, a small piece butter size 
of hickory nut, melted ; one pint of sweet milk, six full table- 
spoons of flour; a little salt. The oven must be hot and the 
bakinsf tins warm. 



ANGEL FOOD CAKE. 

Whites of eleven eggs, one cup of granulated sugar, 
sifted six times, one cup of Swansdown flour, sifted six times, 
one-half teaspoon of cream of tartar, and a little vanilla. 
Frosting: White of one egg beaten stiff and six dessert 
spoons of powdered sugar. 

MAPLE CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, tAvo small cups of butter, one cup of 
milk, three cups v)f flour, one and one-half teaspoon of bak- 
ing powder, and the whites of eight eggs. Put in last a little 
vanilla. Frosting : Two cups of brown sugar, one-half cup 
of butter, one cup of cream. Boil it until it falls in threads, 
stirring all the time. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one cup of milk, and the whites of three eggs. Beat the 
butter and sugar until a cream. Whip the whites of the 
eggs until stiff, and add alternately with milk, two cups 
of flour, sifted with three teaspoons of baking powder. Add 
a little salt, flavor slightly with vanilla. Bake in three lay- 
ers, and for the frosting and fllling use one large coeoanut 
peeled and grated; whites of six eggs, six tablespoons of 
powdered sugar, and shake a little coeoanut over the top. 



Service Club Qok Book. 



JELLY CAKE. 

Three-fourths cup butter, four eggs, one-half cup sugar, 
two teaspoons bakmg powder. Flour to make right thick- 
ness, a little lemon tlavoring and a little nutmeg. Currant 
jelly for filling. 

GINGER COOKIES (No. 1). 

Four cups of flour, one cup of sugar, one cup of butter, 
one cup of molasses, two eggs, one large teaspoon soda, 
one large teaspoonful of gmger or cloves, or a part of each. 
Knead soft and bake quickly. 



BOSTON COOKIES. 

Cream one cup of butter, add gradually one and one-half 
cups of sugar, and three well beaten eggs, add one tea- 
spoon of soda dissolved in one and one-half tablespoons of 
hot water. Sift together three cups of flour, one-half scant 
teaspoon salt, and one teaspoon ground cinnamon. Stir 
in half of this, then one cup of chopped English w^alnuts, 
half a cup of seeded and chopped raisins, and half a cup of 
dried currants. Then add the rest of the flour and mix 
well. Drop by spoonfuls one inch apart on buttered sheet 
and bake in a moderate oven. 



GINGER DROP COOKIES. 

One large cup brown sugar, medium grade, one large 
cu.p butter, four eggs, one tablespoon ginger, one teaspoon 
each of cloves and cinnamon. Mix well. Take one pint 
molasses, one-half pint hot water, one tablespoon soda. Mix 
well and add to other mixture, two and one-half pints of 
sifted flour. Drop on buttered tins and bake. 



62 Service Club C( ok Book. 



CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

The whites and yolks of four eggs and two cups sugar, 
one cup butter and three cups flour, sifted three times, 
adding two teaspoons of baking powder the third time. 
This amount will make four layers. Frosting: Three 
ounces of grated chocolate to half cup of hot water, white 
of one egg, beaten ; one-half cup of powdered sugar. Pour 
in gradually a few drops of vanilla. As soon as the cake 
is cool, spread on the chocolate. 

GINGER COOKIES (No. 2). 

Four cups moJasses, one cup brown sugar, two cups lard, 
and two cups water ; four heaping teaspoons soda dissolved 
in the water, two tablespoons ginger, a little salt. Flour 
enough to mix as soft as possible. Roll half an inch thick. 
Bake in quick oven. 

CUP CAKES. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup milk, three cups 
flour, two teaspoons baking powder, four eggs, flavoring. 
Cream butter and sugar, then add yolks of eggs, and milk. 
Sift baking powder in flour, stir in; add whites of eggs, 
beaten stifl", and flavoring. Bake in muffin tins in quick 
oven. 

COOKIES. 

One egg, one cup brown sugar, one cup walnuts chopped 
fine, one tablespoon melted butter, one tablespoon flour. 
Cream sugar and butter, beat eggs separately, and add flour, 
and stir in nuts; drop from a -spoon onto buttered tins. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 



Service Club Cook Book. 63 



SPICE CAKE. 

One pint flour, one pint sugar, three-fourths cup butter, 
four eggs, one cup milk, one teaspoon cinnamon, one tea- 
spoon cloves and two teaspoons baking powder. Bake in 
shaUow tins. 



FRUIT DROP COOKIES. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one cup butter, two and 
one-half cups flour, three eggs beaten, one teaspoon soda, 
in two tablespoons water, one pound chopped raisins, one 
cup walnuts, chopped, but not flne ; one teaspoon cinnamon. 
Drop on buttered tins and bake about ten minutes in 
medium oven. 



ROCKS-COOKIES. 

One and one-half cups brown sugar, two cups flour, 
one cup seeded raisins, one cup butter, three eggs, one tea- 
spoon soda, dissolved in one-eighth cup of cold water. ]\Iix 
all thoroughly, and add one pound of English walnuts, 
chopped fine. Drop large tablespoonfuls in pan and bake. 



NUT COOKIES. 

One-half pound walnut meats, broken small; one-half 
pound brown sugar, one-third teaspoon salt, one-fourth tea- 
spoon baking powder, sifted into three even dessert spoons 
of flour; two eggs. Beat eggs, add sugar, and other ingre- 
dients and lastly nuts. Drop small teaspoonfuls of the 
mixture in buttered tins. Allow plenty of space between 
each teaspoonful, and bake till brown in a moderate oven. 



64 Service Club Ccok Book. 



FEATHER CAKES FOR PATTY PANS. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup of butter, three cups flour, 
three eggs, one cup milk, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons 
cream of tartar, and juice and grated rind of one lemon. 

CUP OR RUM CAKES. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup melted butter, two eggs, 
beaten together until creamy; one cup sAveet milk, three- 
fourths cup dried currants, tvvo teaspoons baking powder 
sifted with one and ojie-half cups of flour. Bake in indi- 
vidual tins, and when liot, puncture carefully with a fork 
and pour in one tablespoon of rum, then put icing on top. 



WHITE COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, two eggs, one-half tea- 
spoon soda in one-half cup sour milk. Each of the above are 
to be kneaded soft, and baked (piickly. 




FONDANT. ' 

To make Fondant, which is the basis of all French can- 
dies : Two cups coft'ee A sugar, one cup water, cream of 
tartar size of a bean, dissolved in teaspoon of water. Stir 
before but never after it starts to boil. Remove the skim- 
mings from top of sugar with a large spoon. When boiled 
ten minutes, add one teaspoon of vanilla. Try in cold 
water and when a ball can be made in the fingers pour in 
large bowl. When cold enough to dip finger in beat as rap- 
idly as possible. AYhen too stiff to beat w^ork with hands 
like dough. If while stirring the fondant becomes too hard, 
use a tablespoonful of white of egf^, well beaten, add more 
if necessary. It is well to mix the remainder of the egg in 
when finished, and put away in bowl for three days. 



COCOANUT CREAMS. 

Use fondant recipe. Instead of egg mix in grated cocoa- 
nut. If too thin add confectioners' susar. 



PEPPERMINT CREAMS. 

Put one cup fondant in double boiler. Melt just a little, 
add one-half or one teaspoon essence of peppermint and 
drop on buttered paper with a teaspoon. 



66 Service Club Cook Book. 

WALNUT CREAMS. 

Make balls of fondant, and put a walnut on each side. 

NUT CREAMS. 

Chop one or several kinds of nuts; put in bowl and mix 
in fondant. Put on board, roll out and cut in squares. 

WINTERGREEN CREAMS. 

Put one cup fondant in double boiler. ]\Ielt just a little, 
add one-half or one teaspoon of wintergreen, and a drop or 
more of cochineal to color. Drop^'on buttered paper with 
a teaspoon. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

Melt chocolate in double boiler. ]\Iake little balls of 
fondant and drop on wax paper. Put outside to cool. When 
•chocolate is melted, drop one ball at a time into it. Take out 
with fork and put on buttered paper. 

NUT CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

Mix nuts in fondant. ]\lake balls and cover with choco- 
late, same as chocolate creams. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

One and one-fourth pounds sugar, one-fourth pint glu- 
cose, one-fourth pound chocolate, one-fourth teaspoonful 
salt, one-half tablespoon butter, one-half tablespoon vanilla. 
Boil without stirring, until it is brittle when dropped into 
cold water. Pour on buttered tins and when cool cut in 
squares. 



Service Club Cook Book. 67 

NUT CHOCOLATES. 

One cup fondant, melted in double boiler. One-half cup 
chocolate, melted. IMix chocolate with fondant and stir in 
one-half pound of chopped nuts. Drop on wax paper with 
teaspoon. 

CREAM CARAMELS. 

Two cups cofCee A sugar, one-half cup water, one-half 
cup milk, butter size of walnut, cream of tartar size of 
bean, dissolved in teaspoon water. When cooked ten min- 
utes add one teaspoon vanilla. Try in water until a little 
ball can be made in fingers. Pour in bowl. Stir when almost 
cool. Pour in buttered pans and cut in squares. 



MOLASSES CANDY. 

Two cups molasses, one cup sugar, one tablespoon vin- 
egar, butter size of an egg. Cook until brittle. Pour on 
buttered pans and pull when cool. 



PEANUT CANDY. 

Two cups coffee A sugar. Put over slow fire until 
melted. Stir but do not let it boil. Before removing from 
fire, stir in peanuts and pour in buttered tins. 



PRALINES. 

Three cups brown sugar, medium grade, one cup milk. 
Boil until hard, when dropped in cold water. Then add 
butter size of an egg. Mix this in well, take from fire and 
beat until nearly stiff. ]\Iix into this one cup of pecan 
meats and spread on buttered tins to cool. 



68 Service Club Cook Book. 



NUTS GLACE. 

Two cups granulated sugar, one cup boiling water, one- 
third teaspoonful cream of tartar. Boil until syrup turns 
color, about thirty minutes. Tt will become yellow. This 
quantity is sufficient for the meats of a pound of walnuts. 



BANGOR BROWNIES. 

Cream one-half cup of butter, one cup sugar. Add two 
squares (one-quarter cake) Baker's chocolate, melted, two 
eggs, one-half cup pastry flour and one-half cup chopped 
walnuts. Spread on baking tins and bake fifteen minutes 
in a moderate oven. 



TSrmh. SflUs, MnfCxuB 



BROWN BREAD. 

Two Clips of sour milk, one cup of molasses, two tea- 
spoons of soda, dissolved in one cup of hot water, a little 
salt, stir in graham Hour, do not make too stiff batter, let it 
rise in tins, bake slovviv one hour. 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

One-half cup of butter, one-half cup of brown sugar, 
one cup molasses, one cup of corn meal, one cup of graham 
■fiour, two cups of white flour, two spoons of baking powder, 
one CU13 of milk. 

Steam four hours and after taking it out of steamer, it 
should be baked fifteen or twenty minutes. 



SPOON BREAD. 

Put one pint of milk in a double boiler: when hot stir 
in slowly tAvo-thirds of a cup of corn meal. Stir until the 
mixture begins to thicken, it must not be stiff, but a little 
more than creamy. Take from the fire, drop in, beating 
all the while, the yolks of four eggs. Then stir in the well- 
beaten whites, turn the mixture into a baking dish and 
bake in a quick oven for about thirty minutes. 



JO Service Club Cook Book. 



CORN BREAD. 

One tablespoon of bntter, three tablespoons of sugar, 
one cup of sweet milk, one cup of white flour, with three 
small teaspoons of baking powder, two eggs, two-thirds of 
a cup of white cornmeal. Mix butter, sugar and yolks of 
eggs together and beat light as for cake. Bake forty min- 
utes. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD. 

Make sponge of one-half cupful of lukewarm water, one 
ctipfui white flour, and one-half cake yeast, dissolved in one- 
fourth cupful lukewarm water. Cover and set in a warm 
place (about 90° F.) until light and foamy. Add one-half 
cupful scalded milk cooled to lukewarm, one-half teaspoon- 
ful salt, sufficient whole wheat flour to make a stifl: dough. 
Knead thoroughly, mould into a loaf, put into a warm but- 
tered pan, cover closely, and set in a warm place, until it 
rises to double its size. Then put into a hot oven. After 
fifteen minutes lower the temperature, and continue baking 
for one hour. 

MRS. WALKER'S ROLLS. 

Three pints of flour, one large tablespoonful of lard 
mixed well with the flour, one pint of milk, scald, and let 
cool. Pour this into flour, add one-half cake of compressed 
yeast (dissolved in a little water), one tablespoon of white 
sugar. Beat well with a knife, cut it all up, for twenty 
minutes. Now let it rise until very light. Then when per- 
fectly light, cut it down again with a knife. Flour board 
lightly so it will not stick. Pour it out and smooth it with 
yoiu' hand gently about one inch thick, spread butter on 
and cut them out, fold over like pocket. Let them rise in 
pans and bake in a quick oven. Serve very hot. 



Service Club Ccok Book. 7^ 



JOHNNY CAKES. 

Heat in the oven about one pint of cornmeal. Scald the 
mea] well to the consistency of mush. Salt, add a small 
piece of butter and a little milk, as it thickens rapidly and it 
must he kept soft ?Iave a gridiron hot and well greased. 
Cook slowlv until brown on both sides. 



CORN BREAD. 

Three eggs, one basting spoon sugar, one basting spoon 
melted butter, one cup milk, one cup flour, one cup yellow 
cornmeal, two teaspoons baking powder, salt. Beat eggs 
thoroughly, put in pinch of salt, stir in sugar, milk, corn- 
meal and flour, into which mix baking powder, add butter 
and bake in a moderate oven. 



OLD-FASHIONED PLAIN DOUGHNUTS. 

(From Cortland, X. Y.) 
One coffee cup sugar, one coffee cup sweet milk, two 
eggs, three heaping teaspoons baking powder, one teaspoon 
salt, three coft'ee cups flour. After thoroughly sifting flour, 
add to it the baking powder and salt. Then beat eggs and 
sugar together, and add to this mixture the milk. Make a 
holloAV in center of flour, and add slowly the beaten mixture, 
stiri-ing at same time to avoid lumps, ahvays stirring the one 
way. If more flour is needed, sift in a very little at a time, 
carefully avoiding having it stifter than is necessary to pre- 
vent dough sticking to board and rolling pin. Do not knead 
it on board, and roll well, about one-third of an inch thick. 
Cut it into round cakes with hole in center. Have lard 
(fat) in Avhich they are to be fried, very hot, but watch lest 
it becomes scorched, which will spoil the flavor. 



72 Service Club Ccok Book. 



STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

I\rix and sift one cup yellow coriimeal, one cup whole 
wheat, one cup of rye, one teasi)ooniul salt, one "rounded 
teaspoon soda. Into the dry mixture i>our two-thirds cup 
of molasses and one pint milk, mixed, and one cup seeded, 
and well floured, raisins. Steam four hours. Delicious for 
sandwiches ! 



DOUGHNUTS No. 1. 

Two egg's, one and one-half cups of sugar, one and one- 
half cups of sour milk, one teaspoonful soda, two table- 
spoons melted lard (scant), a little salt. Beat eggs, add 
sugar and melted lard^ then milk and soda. Flour enough 
to make a soft dough. Do not substitute sweet milk and 
baking powder. 



DOUGHNUTS No. 2. 

One quart flour, two eggs, one cup sour milk, one tea- 
spoon soda, one cup sugar, three tablespoons melted butter. 
Beat eggs and sugar together, add milk, then soda, dis- 
solved in water. Stir in flour, melted butter the last thing. 
Frv in boilins: lard. 



WAFFLES. 

One and one-half pints flour, two heaping teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, one teaspoon salt. Sift this together, add milk 
enough to make a thin batter, stirring briskly. Add the 
beaten yolks of three eggs, one-half cup melted butter, stir- 
ring constantly, then stir in very carefully, the whites of 
three eggs, beaten stifC. Have waffle-irons hot. 



Service Club Cook Book. 73 

MARYLAND BACHELOR. 

Two egg's, one cup cooked rice, one and one-half pints 
cornmeal, one and one-half pints milk, one tablespoon soft 
butter, two heai^ing teaspoons yeast powder. Rub the 
cooked rice into meal, and salt to taste. Beat eggs light, 
add milk to them, put eggs and milk into the meal, after 
the yeast powder has been added. Add butter last of all. 
The batter must be yery thin. Bake in a moderately hot 
oven until it is brown and set. Serve in a baking dish and 
with a spoon, as it is too soft to be cut in slices. Very nice 
for either breakfast or tea. 

PUFFLECHENS. 

One quart milk, two yeast cakes, five cups flour, one 
heaping teaspoon cinnamon, raisins to suit. Warm the milk, 
and use a little of it to moisten yeast cakes. Stir all ingre- 
dients together and let raise about two and one-half hours, 
turning toAvards fire occasionally. When raised stir and 
cook. Have lard for frying very hot. Drop dough from 
spoon into fat, about live spoonfuls at a time. When last 
one is in the fat, first one will be ready to turn. Cook 
brown. Put on broAvn paper and sprinkle with powdered 
sugar. 

FAMOUS MUFFINS. 

One pint tepid milk, one pound and one ounce sifted 
flour, two ounces butter, four ounces lard, three eggs, one 
teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon sugar, one cup tepid water, 
into which dissolve one-half cake compressed yeast. Beat 
yolks, lard, butter and sugar together, add flour and milk 
alternately. Beat very hard. Beat whites stiff, add yeast 
last. Beat well. Set at 11 a. m. for 7 p. m. and when it is 
time for bakins', dip out vnthout stirring and bake in muffin 
pans. 



74 Service Club Cook Book. 



CREAM MUFFINS. 

One pint sour cream, one-half teaspoon soda, three eggs^ 
salt, and liour enough to make a batter not too thick. 

CORN MEAL MUFFINS. 

Scald one pint of cornmeal (water-ground preferred) 
with boiling Avater. Beat smooth, add one teaspoon salt, and 
one tablespoon butter. When cool, add one pint of milk and 
three eggs beaten \ery light, and two teaspoons yeast pow- 
der. Bake in buttered muffin tins. 

CRACKERS. 

Take a pint bowl full of bread dough ready to be made 
into loaves, a scant half cup of lard and work together,, 
adding flour and kneading the dough until when you pull 
a piece it breaks as putty does. This must be thoroughly 
kneaded, as that is one great element of success. Then 
place on bread board and roll out to oiie-fourth an inch in 
tliickn(}ss. Cut with biscuit cutter, prick Avith fork and 
place on a dripping pan. Bake in a quick oven for about 
twenty minutes. When jiroperly made and baked, they 
should pnff out on the bottom. Let your oven cool off, so 
crackers Avill not brown but dry through thoroughly, and 
always keep in a dry place. 



POP-OVERS. 

Two eggs, tAvo cups flour, tA\'0 cups milk, a pinch of salt. 
Beat eggs thoroughly Avith salt, add one cup of milk, then 
tAvo cups of flour, beat until smooth, then add the other cup 
of milk. Pla(?e gem pan in OA^en Avhen commencing the mix- 
ture, then remove Avhen ready, butter thoi'oughly and fill 
to the brim. Bake in hot OA^en. 



Service Club Cook Book. 75 



WAFERS. 

One pint sifted flour, one eo-o- (not beaten), two table- 
spoons sugar, one heaping tablespoon butter. Mix the 
above with enough milk to make it stiff; enough to roll out. 
Break off small pieces of the dough and roll as thin as pos- 
sible. Cook in wafer irons. Heat the irons well before 
placing the dough in them. 

SOFT GINGER BREAD. 

One scant cup of New Orleans molasses, two tablespoons 
butter, two tablespoons sugar, one teaspoon cinnamon, one 
heaping teaspoon ginger, two cups flour, unsifted. Mix 
molasses, butter, sugar and spices together, and add the 
well-beaten eggs. Sift in the flour, and last of all add one 
cup of boiling water in which dissolve one teaspoon of soda. 
Bake quickly in greased pan and serve hot. 

RYE BREAD. 

3Jake sponge at night with Avlieat flour. Use one cake 
magic yeast. Next morning put one quart warm Avater in 
bread pan, one teacup molasses, salt. Stir in rye flour to 
make a thick batter and add sponge. Have as thick as pos- 
sible. Make into three loaves. Set in warm place to rise 
very light. Bake from three-quarters, to one hour. 

TEA CAKES. 

One-fourth of a pound of butter, one-half pound of 
sugar, one-half cup of milk, one pint flour, three eggs. 
Cream butter, add sugar, add beaten egg yolks, milk, flour, 
and then the beaten whites of eggs. Spread very thin (one- 
sixteenth of an inch), on baking sheets. When done cut 
into squares and serve with afternoon tea. 



7^ Service Club Cook Book 



PONE. 

Pone is made the same way as cornmeal muffins, only 
baked in sheets that are a good inch thick when done. Serve 
cut in squares. 

MARYLAND, OR BEATEN BISCUIT. 

To one pound of fiour add one ounce lard rubbed in, one 
teaspoon salt, and enough cold water to make a stiff dough 
— about one-half pint. Pour in the water, a little at a time, 
so as to be sure not to get it too moist. Work the dough 
until in shape, then lay on a solid place and beat for half 
an hour or longer. Do not add any flour after mixing. 
When ready to mould, pull off' pieces, mould in small balls, 
place separately in pan, flatten with hand, perforate with 
fork and ])ake in a quick oven about half an hour. 

GINGER BREAD. 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, one 
cup sour milk, three cups flour, one tablespoon ginger, two 
eggs, one even teaspoon of soda. Butter and sugar 
creamed. Add molasses and beat Avell. Add ginger and 
yolks of eggs Avell beaten. Soda dissolve in milk and add 
to mixture. Add flour, and lastly whites of eggs, well 
beaten. Bake in muffin tins. 

HOT WATER GINGER BREAD. 

One cup New Orleans molasses, one-half cup brown 
sugar, one level teaspoon soda, one teaspoon parnaice gin- 
ger, two tablespoons melted butter, one-half teaspoon salt, 
one-half cup boiling water, two cups pastry flour, one egg 
lightly beaten. Sift dry ingredients together. Pour molas- 
ses into mixing bowl and stir in sugar and melted butter, 
add dry ingredi^mts, then hot water, and lastly the egg. 



Pr^s^m^s 



SPICED PEARS. 

Six pounds pears, three pounds sugar, one pint vinegar, 
one tablespoon whole cloves, one tablespoon stick cinnamon. 
Spices may be put in a bag if preferred. 

SPICED PLUMS. 

Five pounds plums, four pounds brown sugar, one pint 
vinegar, two tablespoons ground cloves, two tablespoons 
cinnamon. Boil all together half an hour. 

SPICED GOOSEBERRIES OR CURRANTS. 

Two quarts fruit, stemmed, two quarts sugar, one cup 
raisins, stoned and chopped fine, juice of two oranges, rind 
of one chopped fine, one teaspoon cinnamon, one-half tea- 
spoon ground cloves. Boil all together for twenty minutes, 
or until it jellies. (Delicious with fowl or meats!) 

GINGER PEARS. 

Eight pounds liard pears, one-fourth pound green ginger 
root, eight pounds sugar, one glass of water, juice of four 
lemons, rind chopped fine. Soak ginger root in cold water 
thirty-six hours. Peel and cut pears in small pieces. Boil 
all two hours, or until thick. To moisten sugar, use water 
that ginger root was soaked in. 



yS Service Club Cook Book. 



SPICED GREEN GOOSEBERRIES. 

Five pounds gooseberries, four pounds brown sugar, one 
pint vinegar, two tablespoons ground cloves, two table- 
spoons ground cinnamon. Boil until thick. 



BARBERRY PRESERVE. 

To one pound barberries, add four sweet apples, pared 
and sliced, one pint sugar and three cuj^s molasses. Simmer 
together one-half hour or until the berries and apples are 
soft. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Sixteen oranges, cut yellow off rind and chop; remove 
white skin and cut pulp in small pieces, keeping free from 
seeds. Treat six lemons the same way, then pour on this 
three quarts of water, let stand twenty-four hours. Boil 
one hour with five quarts of sugar. Put away the same as 
jelly. 

RHUBARB AND ORANGE MARMALADE. 

One dozen oranges, three lemons, four pounds rhubarb. 
Peel the oranges and lemons, chop fine, then measure equal 
parts or pints of fruit and sugar. Boil about twenty min- 
utes. 

MARMALADE. 

Eight oranges, four lemons, ten pints water, eight 
pounds sugar. Slice fruit thin (rind must be very finely 
cut), add water and let stand twenty-four hours. Boil two 
and one-half hours, add sugar and boil twenty to thirty min- 
utes. 



Service Club Cook Book. 79. 



TOMATO JAM. 

Eight pounds ripe tomatoes, four pounds sugar, one pint 
vinegar, two tablespoons cinnamon, one tablespoon cloves. 
Boil four hours. 



PICKLES. 

To one peck small cucumbers, washed and dried and put 
in Mason jars, add one red sweet pepper in thin threads 
after removing all seeds, one small cup horse radish root cut 
up in small pieces, one garlic bulb picked to pieces and 
peeled, and one cup nasturtium seeds. Fill all the jars with 
cold vinegar, so as to know just the quantity required. 
Then pour vinegar into earthen kettle, Avith an even tea- 
spoon of alum, one coffee cup of salt, one tablespoon each of 
white and black mustard seed, whole cloves, allspice, half 
oup of cinnamon sticks, one-half cup sugar. Let it boil up 
well and pour over pickles, sealing jars firmly. Allow to 
stand three weeks before using. 



CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

One peck cucumbers, one gallon vinegar, tw^o pounds 
brown sugar, six green peppers, six small onions, one stick 
horse radish, one ounce white mustard seed, one-half ounce 
black mustard seed, one ounce cinnamon stick, one teaspoon 
each of whole cloves and allspice. Slice peppers, onions and 
horse radish and put in cans with cucumbers. Put spices 
and sugar in vinegar, scald and pour over cucumbers. 
Make brine that will hold up an egg. Leave cucumbers in 
.this over night. Then drain. Scald in half vinegar and 
half water (one quart. of each) in which alum size of a hick- 
ory nut is dissolved. Drain again and put in cans. 



8o Service O.ub Cook Book. 



CATSUP No. 1. 

One-half bushel tomatoes, three pints vineg-ar, two 
ponnds brown sug-ar, one-half pound salt, one-fourth pound 
black pepper, one teaspoon cayenne, tAvo tablespoons 
S'round cloves, four tablespoons allspice. Boil tomatoes 
tbrc-e hours, strain out seeds and skins, then add other ingre- 
dients and boil one hour. Bottle when hot. Seal well. 

CATSUP No. 2. 

One-half peck ripe tomatoes, peeled, chopped fine, and 

drained through a colander about two hours; one cup 
choi)pe<l onions, one stalk of celery, one or two chopped red 

peppers, one-half cup salt, one cup sugar, two-thirds cup 

white mustard seed, one and one-half pints vinegar, one 

tablespoon cinnamon, one-half tablespoon cloves. Mix and 
can without cooking. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

'l"ake one dozen large cucumbers, just before they turn 
ripe. Pare and take out the seeds. Cut lengthwise. Grate 
them or slice thin. Put in a jelly bag, and drain over night. 
Squeeze dr}' in the morning. (Jhop tw(^ or thi-ee onions, two 
or three green peppers, add ojie tablespoon of salt. Thin 
the pulp with one quart of the best cider vinegar. Put in 
air-tight fruit jars. Will keep two or three years. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Eighteen large ripe tomatoes, three onions, six green 
peppers, chopped fine, two cups vinesar, one-half cup sugar, 
two tablespoons salt, one teaspoon cloves and allspice, two 
teaspoons cinnamon, one-half teaspoon cayenne pepper. 
Boil do^^n fill quite thick. 



Service Club Ccok Book. 



CHILI SAUOE. 

Twenty-four tomatoes, four large red peppers, four large 
onions, six tablespoons sugar, four tablespoons salt, three 
cups of vinegar, add spices. Boil and put in jars. 

JIM-JAM. 

One quart currant juice, one quart raspberry juice, one 
pound raisins, tAvo oranges, live pounds sugar. Cut the rind 
of the oranges into small strips and use the whole orange. 
Stone and halve the raisins. Cook three-quarters of an hour. 
It takes about seven pints of raspberries to make one quart 
of juice. 

TOMATO PICKLE. 

To seven pounds of tomatoes use one pint vinegar, three 
and one-half pounds sugar, one ounce each cloves, allspice, 
and cinnamon. Peel fruit, cut fine and drain. Put on to 
cook with sugar, vinegar and spices. Lastly add two tea- 
spoons of ground mace. Seal in jars. 

SPICED CHERRIES. 

Three pounds stoned cherries, one pound raisins, one 
lemon sliced thin, both rind and inside: three pounds gran- 
ulated sugar, one-half pint vinegar, cinnamon and cloves to 
season. Boil until thick. 



GAS RANGES 

Sold on Easy Payments 

Connected Free 



Best Makes, All Sizes and Styles at 



GAS APPLIANCE 
SALESROOMS 



517 West Madison Street ' 1264 East Ravenswood Park 
354 West 63d Street 548 Lincoln Avenue 

9215 Commercial Avenue 
1 1 107 Michigan Avenue 
1589 Ogden Avenue 



3481 Archer Avenue 
255 Blue Island Avenue 
1017 Milwaukee Avenue 



Or at Main Office of 



The Peoples Gas Light & Coke Co. 

Michigan Avenue and Adams St. 

Telephone Central 1076 



Established 1872 

HARDWARE 
COMPANY 

Ttte Quality House'' 



QRR & LQCKETT 

"Ttte Quality House" 

71-73 Randolph Street 



NEAR NORTHWEST 

CORNER STATE 



For 16 years we have handled the *' ALASKA" 

REFRIGERATORS 

In tile, enamel and zinc linings. CWe know this refrigerator to be superior to 
all others in saving of ice, durability, convenience and appearance. 
CLWe recommend them to anyone who has had 
experience with other makes. 



IMPERIAL BLUE WARE 

Imperial Blue Ware is an imported enameled ware 
of great durability and beauty. We consider it the 
best on the market today. 




Phone Douglas 378 



SPECIALISTS 

KID GLOVE AND SILK CLEANERS 

3141 Wabash Avenue 
Chicago 



THE BEST KID GLOVE AND SILK CLEANERS 
IN AMERICA 



harass 
humanity. 




and 
Humidity 



Ginger Ale 
Root Beer 
Birch Beer 
Sarsaparilla 

— the ].n7'e kind 
Help all the family to endure summer's heat; are healthful 
and refreshing; made of absolutely pure roots, bark and 
materials and double distilled Hydrox water. Hydrox 
products are sold by Druggists and Grocers or can be 
ordered direct from 



The Consumers Co., 



Works, 35lh, Butler &36lh Streets, Chicago. 



Telephone Yards 1220 



POPE-TOLEDO 




TWO-CYI,INDER "o"°/e:1h ^xir PRICE, S2000 



QUIET AND FAST 

THE BEST TVV^O-CYLINDER CAR ON the MARKET 

SEE THE POPE CARS BEFORE BUriNG 
CALI. AT EITHER OF OUR STORES OR TELE- 
PHONE FOR DEMONSTRATION 



THE Orlando f. w^eber Co< 

DISTRIBUTERS 
CHICAGO STORE: .S90-392 W^ABASH Ave. 

PHONK 2068 HARRISON^ 

MILWAUKEE STORE: 321-325 FOURTH St. 

PHOXE 2781 MAIir 



POPE-TOLEDO 

FouR-Cxi.iiirDER Car, S3500.00 



POPE-HARTFORD 

SiNGLB Cylinder Car, §1050. 00 



POPE-TRIBUNE 

Single Cylinder Car, ^(ioO.OO 



Spaulding & Co. 



CHICAGO 



Goldsmiths Silversmiths and Jewelers 
Importers of 

Diamonds Precious Stones 
Watches and Art Goods 

Producers of 

Rich Jewelry and Silverware 



Special and artistic Correct and latest 

designs furnished. forms in Fine Stationery. 



Our ^'Suggestion Book" mailed on application. 

Jackson Boulevard, corner State Street, 
Chicago. 



When You Think of 
Advertising 

Think of 

Lord ^ Thonnas 

Their aid 

is proving vmluaMe 
to business men 
and women in 
every line 



^3lfe^ A. L. Thomas, President 

\^s ^-1, C. R. Erwin, Vice-President 

1^^ A. D. Lasker, Secretary and Treasurer 




''K'^'kPr 



^^»it^i'' CHICAGO NEW YORK ST. LOUIS 



When Serving the poor 

we arc reminded of the rising generations 
at home* Give them the right start in life 
by teaching them the advantages in system- 
atic saving* The habit inculcated early in 
life^ assures independence and self-reliance 
in later years* 

START NOW TO START RIGHT 



One Dollar will 
start an account in 
the Savings Dep^t 
of the 




Interest 3 per cent 
compounded 
semi-annually 
Jan. I and July I 



Deposits made by the J 0th of the month draw interest from the tst 



The affairs of this Bank are in the 
hands of gentlemen well known in 
the community. 

DIRECTORS 

DARIUS MILLER JAS. LONGLEY 

1st V-Pres. C.B.&Q. Ry. Capitalist 

GEO. E. MARCY J. FRANK LAWRENCE 

V-Pres. Armour Gi-ain Co. Capitalist 

CHAS. F.KIMBALL FRED'K L. WILK 
Pies. C.P.Kimball &Co. V-P. Union Trust Co. 

S. W. RAWSON FRED'K H. RAWSOX 

Pres.UnionTrustCo. V-Pres.UnionTrustCo. 



The Officers are ever ready to 
grant personal interviews or to reply 
to written communications. 

OFFICERS 

S. W. Ravvson G. M. Wilson 

President Cashier 

F. L. WiLK F. P. SCHREIBER 

Vice-President Ass't Cashier 

F. H. Rawson C. p. Kenning 

Vice-President Asst. Cashier 

R. F. Chapin Secretary 



CAPITAL, $1,000,000.00 



Established 1869 



SURPLUS, $400,000.00 



Good Cooks 

need good Salt 



Rock Crystal 

Absolutely Pure 
Comes only in paper packages 



INTERNATIONAL SALT CO. of ILLINOIS 
Railway Exchange, Chicago 



American 
Cak Company 




MANUFACTURERS OF 

CANS 

OF ALL KINDS 

PLAIN AND LITHOGRAPHED 

135 ADAMS STREET 

CHICAGO, ILL. 




^®* C^iL Apitezo 

Rosy ^•siSf ^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ 



The American Cereal Co., August 25, 1903. 

Chicago. 

Gentlemen: — I go to New York in a few weeks for two 
months. Some friends there can not find Apitezo. Where can I 
get it in New York ? My address in New York will be care of 
The Observer, 156 Fifth Avenue. 

By my physician's suggestion I began using Apitezo the first 
of the year, and graduallv dropped other food, until now I eat it 
three times a day, and nothing else, except when I am dining out. 
Less trouble with indigestion than for thirty years, and slight but 
steady gain in physical strength and ability to do mental work, 
make Apitezo of first importance to me. 

Very truly yours. 



^<R 



^^ 



DOCTOR RAY IS SECRETARY AND TREASURER OF 

THE PRESBYTERIAN BOARD OF AID FOR COLLEGES AND ACADEMIES, 

78 LA SALLE STREET, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. 




Restaurants and Lunch Rooms 

THROUGHOUT THE CITY: 

I5M53 Dearborn Street I US-^O Jackson Blvd. 
75-77 Randolph Street i \Q7 Van Buren Street 
8 J Madison Street \ 254 State Street 

• New Railway Ex. Bjd^. 397 State Street 

t65 Adams Street 300-302 Dearborn Street 

First National Bank Building; 



COMMISSARY: 

Wholesalers and Retailers of Fancy 
Groceries and Meats 

Clubs^ Hotels, Diningf Cars and Families Supplied 

38 & 40 STATE STREET 



JOHN R. THOMPSON, Prop. 



TELEPHONE 855 HARRISON 



F. G. HARTWELL COMPANY 

COAL 

AND COKE 

1308 FISHER BUILDING 
CHICAGO, ILL 



What They Offer 

The reliable savings bank offers you 
an investment which is absolutely 
secure for your savings and pays as 
high a rate of interest as is consistent 
with careful and conservative man = 
agement. Your savings will be a 
working asset — good to keep and 
well to have for an emergency or op= 
portunity. We respectfully invite you 
to start a savings account with the 

Drovers Trust and Savings Bank 

Halsted and Forty=second Sts. 



Hours: 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturdays, 9 a m . to 2 p.m. 



OPEN WEDNESDAY 
EVENINGS 



PER CENT 
INTEREST PAID 



OFFICERS 

WM. H. BRINTNALL, President 
WM. A. TILDEN, Vice-President 
CHAS. S. BRINTNALL, Cashier 
WM. C. CUMMINGS, Ass't Cashier 



DIRECTORS 

EDWARD TILDEN 
WM. A. TILDEN 

WM. H. BRINTNALL 
A. B. SHAW 

CHAS. S. BRINTNALL 



Telephone Oakland 497 



/Iftangel 



ROSES, VIOLETS and ORCHIDS 



Southeast Corner 
Forty- seventh Street and Lake Avenue 

CHICAGO 



MILK BOTTLED IN THE COUNTRY 

BoAVMAN Dairy Company 

FINEST CREAMERY BUTTER DAILY 



CITY ADDRESSES: 

169-173 ONTARIO STREET 
3514-3516 RHODES AVENUE 
945-947 W. ADAMS STREET 
1245-1247 BELMONT AVENUE 
6939-6941 WENTWORTH AVE. 

OAK ¥»ARK, Il^L.: 

HARLEM AVENUE AND 
CENTRAL STREET 



COUNTRY BOTTL'G PLANTS 
AiTD CREAM SUPPLIES: 

ELBURN, ILL. 
CRYSTAL LAKE, ILL. 
BARRINGTON, ILL. 
ST. CHARLES, ILL. 
ALDEN, ILL. 

EGG DEPARTMENT: 

231 RUSH STREET 



FRESH EGGS THE YEAR ROUND 



TELEPHOS^ES AT ALL OFFICES 



ESTABIilSHED 1850 TKIiEPHOIfE MAIX 2413 



Stanton & Co. 

imported delicacies, groceries and fruits 

69 Waskington Street 
Chicago 



UNIQUE stained FINISH 



NOTHING T.TKE THfS EVER BEFORE SHOWN. 
PEKFECTLtY dead TN effect. brings OUT 
THE GRAIN OP THE WOOD BKAUTIFULLY, and 
IS ADAPTED FOR ALL WOODS. MAKES PINE 
A BEAUTIFUL WOOD FOR INTERIOR FINISH. 

SEND FOR OUR COMPLETE BOOKLET 
"UNIQUE stained FINISH" 



CHICAGO VARNISH COMPANY 

DEARBORN AND KINZIE 22 VESET STREET 

CHICAGO NEW YORK 



Edmund A. Cummings Robert C. Givins 

Charles O. Goss Edward S. Judd 

D. Long, Auctioneer 



Telephones Central 24 and 25 
Established 1869 



E- A. Cummings & Co. 

GENERAL REAL ESTATE 
AND LOAN AGENTS 



APPRAISERS AND AUCTIONEERS 

Buy, Sell 6" Manage Property on Commission 
Collect Rents. Pay Taxes. Negotiate Loans 

S. W. Cor. Dearborn and Washington Streets 
Chicago 



Telephone Central 2 ■'41 



ToUSey famish 
•^ ■. Company 



General Offices: 814 Hartford Building 
Factory: 560-562 Twenty-fifth St. 



CHICAGO 




FDDTBALL«PDKER 



The Greatest Game Out 
Mimic Football Played with Cards 
Easy to Leau-i\— Easy \o Play 
Fui\ for Two— Fur\ for a. Crowd 



Football-Poker has all the 

interest and excitement of the 
two great American Games. 
Full of spectacular runs, goals 
from the field, blocked kicks, 
fumbles, touchdowns, etc. 
A real game of Football played on a paper "gridiron" and minus 
broken bones. Price 50 cents at book dealers, or from us post- 
paid. Sample chart of game free Young and old, teachers, college 
students, society — everybody is playing Football-Poker. 

"AH Harvard plays Football-Poker — now the rage with students." 

— Chtiago Tribune. 
"An interesting and instructive game." — Director Bairci, Michigan. 

THE REILLY «l BRITTON CO.. 84 Adams St.. Chicago. 111. 



For sale in Chicago by Marshall Field & Co., The Fair, Schlesinger & Mayer, A. G. Spalding & Bros. 
A. C. McCiurg, Mandel Bros., Siegel Cooper & Co., all Book and News Dealers. 



Long Distance Telephones 
Douglas 744 Douglas 523 



^V. J. SMYTH 

FLORIST 

Cor. Michigan Avjenue 
AND 3 1st Street 

CHICAGO 



Estimates Given on all Floral Decorations 



Telephone Central 21 81 
Hours: 7 a. m. to 7.30 p. m. 



THE 

MRS. CLARK 

COMPANY 

Lunch Room 

lo;5 MICIIIGAX AVENUE 



TABLE T>'HOTE DTNXEK AXD 
ETJKOPEAJSr MENU 



CATERERS 

Especial attention given to Catering. 

Experienced and deft waitresses and com- 
petent cooks furnished. 

Estimates cheerfully furnished for lunch- 
eons, dinners, receptions, etc. 



Telephone Hvde Park 635 



THOMAS 

EDWARDS 

128 53d street 

RETAILERS OF 

HIGH GRADE 

MEATS, FISH, GAME 

AND POtll^TRiT 

FRUITS 

Axr» 

VEGETABLES 



Meats our specialty — Telephone us and we 
will guarantee you satisfaction. 



ROBERT 

LUBY 

Fancy Grocery 
House 

451 E. Forty-Seventh St. 
CHICAGO 



Phone Oak. 237 



Telephone South 1007 



JOHN ZENGELER 

Expert Cleaner & Dyer of Ladies ' and 
Gentlemen V Fine Garments 



PARTICULAR ATTENTION PAID 
TO DRAPERIES AND BLANKETS 



2323 Cottage Grove Avenue 

Corner Prairie Avenue 



Castberg 



Importer of 



French Millinery 

185 Michigan 'Boulevard 
Chicago 



To become a proficient cook^ it 
is necessary to use a gas range. 
Sold on easy terms at our dis- 
play roomSy 653 N. Clark Street^ 
or 115 Dearborn Street. 

OGDEN GAS COMPANY. 




^*5Sl^* 



iltl 






SANFORD'S INKS AND MUCILAGE 

Chicago SANFORD MFG. CO. NewYork 



W. H. REDINGTON 

PRESIDENT 

WM. RODIGER 

SECRETARY 



JlflrtBt 

(Ulliragn 



^ , , ( South 1600 

Telephones: , „ u c 
'^ { South 1 601 



N. W. HARRIS & CO. 

BANKERS 

CHICAGO NEW YORK BOSTON 

GOVERNMENT, MUNICIPAL 
RAILROAD & CORPORATION 

BONDS 

Interest allowed on deposits subject to check. Loans made on collateral only. 

Letters of Credit issued on Bank of Scotland, London, 

available in all parts of the world. 

Circulars describing various issues of bonds furnished on request. 

Personal interviews and correspondence invited. 

204 Dearborn Street 
CHICAGO 



BORDEN'S 
MILK 



ABSOLUTELY 

PURE 
AND CLEAN 




Bottled in the 

Country into 

Sterilized Bottles 



TRADE MARK 



CHICAGO OFFICE: 17 East Monroe Street 
Tel. Central 4209 — Order Today 

CHICAGO OAK PARK EVANSTON 



R. R. English (Q. Co. 

71-73 E. 22d Street 



i^^^psj^l^ip^^^?^*^^^^''^-: 



,ar^ 



Phone 
South 590 



Phone 
South 591 



CKoicest Native Meats 

Poultry, FisH, Oysters and Game 

Staple and Fancy Groceries 
AVINES, LIQUORS (Si BEER 



inglr 



3(mpnrtpra 
irfBHtttaking anti iFtn? ©atlortng 

ir3n iiirl|tgan Aitntup. QIlitragD 

Telephone i 54S South 




r^ 




)^^, 





HENR^YC.LYTTON Pres 

Outfitters for all Mankind 

OUR BOYS' DEPARTMENT-2d Floor 

Every known fashion and garment tor bovs is represented in this 
ct>mplete exposition of juvenile styles for the Spring of 1904. Our 
buyers are carefully selected for their expert knowledge of boys' 
needs, and bend every energy to keep in constant and perfect touch 
with the dictators of juvenile fashions. Consequently they always 
have on hand extensive assortments, complete in every detail and at 
prices invariably the lowest consistent with qualitv. 

Boys' and Children's Hats and Furnishings 

Without egotism we can tru'hfuUy say that no store in the country 
pays as close attention to the details and equipment of their Hat, 
Cap and Furnishing departments for boys and children as we do. A 
detailed description is impossible, but you are invited to visit the 
departments at any time and see the goods for yourself. 
Our Great is ir creasing in popularity everyday. In addition to 
the finest men's shoes obtainable, we carry complete 
lines of footwear for women, boys, misses, children. 



Shoe Section 



REVELL&CO. 

FINE FURNITURE 
ORIENTAL RUGS 

CARPETS, DRAPERIES 
AND WALL PAPER 

VISIT THE FURNISHED COTTAGE-Fif=th Floor 

Cor. Adams St. and Wabash Ave. 



Stevens 



The recognized style store of Chicago in women's 
fine wearing apparel — The really smart modes are 
always shown here first. If you prefer the new 
and original creations — the out-of-the-ordinary 
modes — you will be delighted in looking through 
our various stocks. There is no establishment in 
America that carries so many beautiful novelties. 



Chas. A, Stevens & Bros. 



Peabody 
Coal Company 

WHOLESALE 

COAL 



Bedford Building 
CHICAGO 



(981) 
Long Distance Telephones ' 982 Harrison 

(983 J 



Armourls 




When you use MAPLE SYRUP on 
your table at breakfast^ luncheon or dinner^ 
you want 




It is simply pure maple, put up under conditions that 
insure its absolute purity and uniformity. Put up in con- 
venient sizes— pint, quart, >^ -gallon, gallon Log Cabin cans. 



LOG CABIN FUDGE. 

Take two cups of granulated sugar, one cup 
of Towle's Log Cabin Maple Syrup, half a cup 
of milk, two tablespoonfuls of butter, put in 
enameled sauce-pan over a brisk fire and stir 
constantly until it makes a soft ball when 
dropped into cold water, which will take about 
five mmutes after it comes to a boil. Then 
remove and beat until it begins to granulate, 
then pour into a buttered pan and when partlv 
cool, cut into squares. 



LOG CABIN MAPLE MOUSSE. 

One pint of whipped cream, yolks of four 
eggs, one cup of Towle's Log Cabin Maple 
Syrup. Beat yolks of eggs, add to the syrup, 
cook until it thickens, watching carefully so it 
will not scorch. When it thickens, take it off 
the stove and set aside to .cool. Beat or whip 
the cream stiff, add the syrup and the eggs, 
pack in ice and let it freeze for four hours. 



The above are two of the recipes from our booklet "From Camp to Table, 
Booklet will be sent upon request. 



The Towie Maple Syrup Co., St. Paul, Minn. 



Telephone Central 3088 



AtumnJj $c ^tnh (Ha 



SPICE GRINDERS 

Manufacturers, Importers and Packers of 

drnr^rH nnh Sruggtats 

PURE FLAVORING EXTRACTS, MAMMOTH BAKING POWDER 
OLIVES AND CAPERS and STRICTLY PURE OLIVE OIL 



MMi mh mxn: 10-20 mmr ^t 



A SCO on any of our Packages is a guarantee of 
the highest excellence 



We onter tn thase who 
demnncl the best 



Charles A. Eseman 

GROCERIES 
AND MEATS 

15-17 EAST FORTY-SEVENTH ST. 



Service Fnequaled Complete Stock 



Golden Horn Flour 
Makes Perfect Bread 





When you are at a loss to know what to serve for luncheon — 
when you crave something both appetizing and satisfying — try^ 

Libby'S (Natural Flavor) Food 

Among the manv Libby delicacies are Boneless Chicken, Melrose 
Pute, Veal Loaf, Peerless Wafer-Sliced Dried Beef, Potted Ham, 
and Corned Beef Hash — wholesome foods that are as dainty 
as they are good — as substantial as they are appetizing. Every 
Libby product is as wholesome as though made in your own 
kitchen, under your personal supervision. 

The Booklet, " How to Make Good Things to Eat," sent free. 
Libby's Big Atlas of the Woi-kl, for live two-cent stamps. 



Libby, 



McNeill 

C H i c a gf o 



& Lib by 










.0* ,."-•♦ /^b 




* o 









; "^ 0^ 



o^ * 







c^ .^ 



^^-^sK V 



^^^"- -. 









.•■ 0^^ ^' 



♦ 4 



■* \/ 'M&' \<^'' '^'' S'/ '^^^'^ ' 







L* C «».•[« 4 ^ 



<> ^^y^^' .0^ 




o^ 'o • 7 * A 



v^" . 




^ -^ 






'^^ c'*"* <^ 




A^u 










.•' «,. sy *'^^^\ X^^^ y^%^/K'^ ^^ .^ .N^ 






o°\c:^^'^-o 



o. -« . . • A 



•^.i*" .V"^^^*" ''^^^■t 






»;♦ <.^' 



,4 Oft .■ 



iPv- 






^ - • . ' »y 



. -^v^^' • 



Xx,^"" * 








WERT 
BOOKBINDING 

Crantville Pa 







> -N 



.■?- 



•1°^ •. 




.• J?-^ 



