Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



^ 




r J. 




• ,-■» '• 



> 



THE GOdDHOUSEKEEPiiSK 

HOSTESS 



! 



■J 



t 
-I 



'■I 

J 



3 



^ 



.1 



I 




— ' ) 



J \. \ 



\ 



b 



*sJ 



\i 



Q 



7 , \vl-CtTaii; " 



THE 



GOOD HOUSEKEEPING 



HOSTESS 



ENTERTAINMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS 

AND OCCASIONS, DESCRIBED IN DETAIL BY A GROUP 

OF ACCOMPLISHED ENTERTAINERS 

ALSO 

THE COMPLETE RULES OF ETIQUETTE AND SOCIAL 
OBSERVANCE FOR THE HOSTESS 



r^/i I 



J 



THE PHELPS PUBLISHING CO 

New York Springfield, Mass Chicago 



• *4 .' 



,5480978 

xq-POR LfWtX i^V 



COPYRIGHT, Z904, BY THE PHELPS PUBLISHING CO 



CONTENTS vii 



PAGE 

A Grown-IJp Children's Party 202 

A Cinderella Party. 204 

For Card Parties 205 

A Pumpkin Party 207 

Tally Cards 208 

A Hayseed Carnival 209 

Tableaus 210 

A Chrysanthemum Cotillion (illustrated) .... 211 

A Wigwam Dance 212 

February Parties 213 

A Civic Evening 215 

AVEDDING PARTIES 219-228 

A Bridesmaids^ Tea 219 

A Hausfrau Luncheon 220 

A Golden Wedding 221 

The Celebration of Wedding Anniversaries . . . 223 

HALLOWEEN PARTIES 231-253 

Halloween Frolics 231 

A Nutting Party 232 

Fishing for Fate 234 

A Halloween Party 236 

A Real Halloween 241 

A Halloween Cobweb Party 247 

Suggestions for Halloween (illustrated) 249 

HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES .._., 257-282 

A Spelling Bee. 257 

The Thanksgiving Table 258 

A Bachelor's Thanksgiving Dinner (illus- 
trated) 261 

A Jest Christmas Tree 268 

A Twentieth- Century Christmas Tree 271 

An Innovation 274 






viii CONTENTS 



PAGE 

OTHER SPECIAL OCCASIONS 285-299 

A Birthday Party 286 

Valentine Contests 286 

A Heart Party for February 14 287 

A Washin^on's Birthday Party 291 

A St. Patrick's Day Party 294 

An April Fool's Evening 296 

CHURCH AFFAIRS 303-320 

The Strawberry Festival 303 

A Church Supper 312 

A Charity Post Box 314 

For the Sunday School 316 

Sunday Hours 317 

Suppers and a Fagot Party (illustrated) 318 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PAOB 

SOCIAL LIFE 3-ai 

Sundry Obligations 3 

Issuing and Receiving Invitations 4 

Cards 7 

The Christening 8 

Children's Parties 10 

Coming-out Parties 11 

Luncheons and Breakfasts 13 

Formal Dinners 15 

Weddings 17 

In Bereavement 19 

Wedding Anniversaries 20 

DINNERS 25-93 

A Dainty June Dinner 25 

An Abbreviated Dinner 32 

A Company Dinner 38 

The Harvest Home 43 

The Winter Feast 52 

An Indian Dinner 61 

A Harvest Dinner 62 

Artistic Dinner Decorations 69 

A Chinese Dinner (illustrated) ' 71 

A Birthday Party (illustrated) 77 

A Cherry Blossom Dinner (illustrated) 86 

A "Cold Comfort" Dinner .- 90 

An Omar Khayyam Dinner 91 

A Literary Dinner 92 

A Toy Dinner 93 



I 



vi CONTENTS 



PAGE 

LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 97-146 

A Sprin^ime Luncheon (illustrated) 97 

A Chicago Luncheon , 106 

For Independence Day 107 

A University Luncheon Ill 

In Mexican Style 115 

A Circus Luncheon 120 

A Corn Luncheon 122 

Eve's Luncheon 126 

A Chinese Luncheon 127 

Easter Luncheons (illustrated) 131 

Ten- Cent Luncheons (illustrated) 137 

A May Time Luncheon 141 

A Curiosity Tea 143 

A Spinster's Tea 145 

A Sofa Pillow Tea 146 

PARTIES FOR CHILDREN 149-171 

A Happy Christening (illustrated) 149 

A Paper Party 154 

A Winter Picnic (illustrated) 157 

For the Little Folks (illustrated) 162 

A "Three- Year-Old" Party 170 

BOYS' AND GIRLS' PARTIES 175-188 

Walking Letters 175 

A Big Game Hunt 176 

Easter Fun and Easter Feasting 181 

Two Jolly Evenings 186 

PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS 191-215 

The Dicker Party 191 

A Hap-Hazard Koof Party 192 

A Monotype Party (illustrated) 195 



SOCIAL LIFE 



7 



SOCIAL LIFE 

Sundry Obligations \ 

IT sometimes happens in our experience that though 
we possess many beautiful and valuable bits of 
information, we lack that very one for which we 
have immediate need, and like the lady who glories in 
nine rose point berthas and perforce remains away from 
the horse show for want of linen collar and cuflEs, we may 
know quite glibly that the nation^s chief in far-away 
Washington is addressed as His Excellency, and yet 
pucker our brows in vain bewilderment as to whether 
plain little next-door Lucy is our dear Mrs. Gray or" 
eimply dear Lucy since she came home from the 
honeymoon. 

Perhaps it will help a little if we remember that 
all conventions are in their final analysis dictated by 
the heart and based on the golden rule. They may 
have been cut long ago at some grand court, and dried 
through usage among the gentlefolk of many lands, and 
yet they are less arbitrary than would seem at first 
thought. Bules of etiquette have always been equally 
binding on all members of the set which uses them, 
and as my lady is sometimes guest and on other occa- 
sions hostess, it would plainly be but natural for her 
to advocate the least irksome duty for each class; 
besides which is the fact that truly well-bred people 
regulate their conduct by kindly feeling for each other. 



J 
J ^ 



J > • 

5 ' 



4 THB GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

To be sure there are the fads which crop up from 
year to year, and the improper use of forks and finger 
bowls has been made such a bogie that many a woman, 
on her way to a large dinner, trembles at thought of 
the ordeal before her. But no lady need really fear. 
Table etiquette, like all the rest, is primarily to protect 
lis from unpleasirig spectacles; and it is by no means 
impossible for a gentlewoman to handle her asparagu;? 
in an old-fashioned manner without losing caste, while 
the person next her conforms to the fad of the day and 
yet offends by a too-evident enjoyment of her salad. 

If, then, you are not sure as to the exact require- 
ment in certain social obligations, and have no way ol 
finding out, do the thing you would consider graceful 
and kind were you in the position of the other person 
concerned ; and above all things, keep on your face the 
calm smile of self-possession, which goes so far to prove 
that you know what you are about. 

Issuing and Receiving Invitations 

Formal intercourse with our kind is regulated bj 
old customs which are amended from time to time. Ij 
vou are the entertainer and set out to be ceremonious 
then put yourself into the hands of the best stationer 
you can afford, and take his word for the correctness 
of vour invitations. 

Strictly speaking, a handsome engraved invitation 
presupposes an entertainment of equal grandeur; and 
you may well hesitate and consider, before issuing such, 
whether your purse will permit you to fulfill what 



SOCIAL LIFE 



would ^fem io be the promise of the message. In large 
f oMtal functions you must probably have aid from the 
caterer and the florist as well as the stationer; in which 
case you will almost be a guest in your own house, and 
must certainly betray no care of cooking or serving; 
in fact, you must guard against flurry in even the 
siiiiplest hospitality. 

Outside of the large centers of fashion the average 
American woman has little time, or indeed taste, for 
strictly formal functions; but throiighout the land there 
blossoms a love for social meeting with one's friends, 
and never was there a time in our history when happy 
little circles and gatherings flourished as now. 

The invitations for less formal entertainments may 
be written in conventional third-person wording, fol- 
lowing the form of the engraved card. It is more 
common, however, when your intention is to gather 
together a party of friends for real pleasure, to be 
committed to nothing more conventional than good 
paper and ink, a fair penmanship (that the guests come 
not on Tuesday when your cook's orders are for two 
days later) , and a respect for the age and the 
idiosyncrasies of the spelling book. The letters 
R. S. V. P., and even the later English form of 
requesting an answer to an invitation, have ^ne out 
of fashion ; since the rule of reply is supposed to be an 
understood thing. 

To the receiver of invitations the rule of reply is 
comparatively simple: You follow ' thb' lead of the 
person who has invited you. If the invitation is for- 



6 THE QOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

mally worded in the third person, your reply is similarly 
worded; and if a personal note bids you to a friend's 
house, you answer in a» unconventional note. 

Invitations for receptions, ceremonious weddings, 
teas where many people are to be present, and all enter- 
tainments where the crowd would have to be provided 
for in any case, and your absence could not cause 
inconvenience, require no acknowledgment. If you go 
(except in case of church weddings) you leave a card, 
and if you do not attend you send your card, enclosed 
in an envelope, and preferably by messenger to be 
delivered during the entertainment. 

Invitations to dinners, breakfasts, luncheons, the 
opera, and in fact all entertainments where special 
place is to be kept for you, must be answered imme- 
diately. This is one of the most rigid rules of good 
breeding, since it is easily understood that no hostess 
can give her mind calmly to preparation until she has 
her list of guests complete. If you doubt your ability 
to attend you must 'decline at once and give your frien«i 
the opportunity to ask someone else. Once made, an 
engagement may be properly broken for but one cause 
— outside of illness or grave trouble — ^namely a con- 
flicting invitation from the President of these United 
States, and did we observe this rule there would be few 
chagrined or slighted hostesses in most parts of the 
country. 

In declining invitations it is always more courteou-^ 
to give your reason, though of course this is not possible 
in all cases. *- 



SOCIAL LIFB 



In a general way it may be said that every invita- 
tion, whether accepted or not/ requires a call upon the 
hostess within two or three weeks after the entertain- 
ment; but a breach in the case of general receptions 
or teas would be more easily forgiven than after dinners, 
luncheons (any feast where you have eaten at a place 
assigned specially to you), and thoBe functions whose 
raison d'etre is to introduce a debutante or to honor 
some particular person or occasion. ^ 

Cards 

It will not be amiss in closing this chapter on 
general matters of etiquette, to mention that small, but 
like the hairpin, indispensable aid to civilization, the 
visiting card. As with engraved invitations, you must 
advise with the stationer about size, thickness and type, 
for these things vary from season to season; though it 
is safe to say that a neat inconspicuous letteriiig, either 
Old English or script, is always in good taste. Initials 
are tabooed, the full name being always engraved on 
the card. If, as happens in many a home of the best 
culture, the hostess herself opens the door/ you lay tho 
cards quietly on some table when you rise to leave, one 
card for each lady of the household, whether you have 
seen them all or not. If there is a maid or a man 
servant, you put your bits of pastebbard into the salver 
offered you for that purpose; and for the sake of those 
unconventional souls who are not afraid to -approach a 
friend's door because cards have been forgotten, we can 
only rejoice that all servants are not as zealous as the 



8 THB GOOD HOUSEKBBPINO HOSTB89 

negro maid who half shut the door in a lady's face, 
and said through the narrow cr&ck : " You-all sho can't 
git into we-alFs house ef you ain't got airy ticket/' 

The visiting card may be used as invitation to teas 
and afternoon receptions by having the hour and date 
written in the lower left-hand corner ; and it may carry 
messages of congratulation, condolence, or greeting with 
gifts, written on the back and signed with name or 
initials; but it is never used to carry thanks for any 
courtesy, in which case a note must be written. 

Finally, it will bear repetition that conventional- 
ities are based on a kindly desire to meet our fellows 
on common ground, where all may be at ease, and where 
none is required to give up all individual characteristics, 
but only to conform to those rules which are a neces- 
sity in any body of men and women. 



SPECIAL OCCASIONS 

The Christening 

My lady first meets the friends of her family when 
they are bidden to gather for her christening, or, in 
case that ceremony be not a part of her inheritance, she 
may be introduced at an old-time caudle party. Except 
for the religious service in the former, these two func- 
tions are practically the same, and on either occasion 
it is the niost intimate of all the family feasts, only 
those people you really care for being honored with the 
engraved cards, or the notes asking their presence. 



SOCIAL LIP£ 



The sponsors are requested by special note, or 
verbally, to act in that capacity, and tradition has it 
that the honor is prettily thanked with a gift of silver, f 

a Clip or porringer, or perhaps a spoon, for the infant. 
Other guests may send flowers to the mother, or gifts 
to the baby, though neither is obligatory. 

The hour is chosen according to my lady's sleepy 
time, for it is well to make as sure as possible of her 
gracious smiles by avoiding atiy infringement on her 
nap. She may be only six weeks old, and is like a pink 
roseSud as the nurse carries her about for the com- 
pany's admiration after the ceremony. She is dressed 
in the finest and softest gown that can be afforded, all 
the better if it has been handed down from- other family 
christenings; two rosettes of baby ribbon, white, of 
course, on the shoulders show that it is "full dress" for 
her tiny ladyship; and custom likes a small posy of 
white blossoms tucked . in somewhere about her. 

She is carried away before long, and refreshments 
are served, perhaps the traditional caudle, a hot drink 
made of spiced and sweetened oatmeal water, but the 
equally old dish formerly concocted for the father and 
his men friends no longer appears, a fact which no 
one need regi-et. This was a mixture of sweetened, 
buttered toast, with boiling beer poured over; and for 
each piece of toast a man took from the, big bowl, he 
put in a. piece of money for the babv's nurse. 

The simplest, and to- many people the most refined 
torm of. refreshment,, is a good wine passed with cako 
in the parlor. But perhaps the most general thing 



10 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

nowadays is a luncheon, at which the decorations and 
the dishes should be white as far as possible. 

Children's Parties 

Miss Baby thus makes her first bow at an early 
age, but for the next years she keeps to her nursery, 
growing in sweetness and beauty all the time, until her 
days of children's parties come. The invitations for 
these give room for any amount of prettiness and inge- 
nuity. They may be written by the mother, or the child 
may pen them in bis or her own wabbly characters; 
they may be in rhyme, or may be decorated with tiny 
water colors of Mother Goose people, or any other 
suitable subject. The little guests all reply as soon as 
possible, having also a wide range in the matter of 
their jiotes. 

There are a few secrets about making a party for 
little folks successful. There should be as much music 
as possible; the games should be well planned before- 
hand, so that no drags occur; the refreshments must 
be simple and wholesome, and easily handled by chubby 
fingers ; and instead of one or two handsome prizes for 
skill in certain games, the aim should be to see that 
every child carries home some pretty trifle in the way 
of a favor. If the pccasion is a birthday, and the 
guests bring gifts, good taste demands that these be 
simple and inexpensive; and a wise mother takes this 
occasion to teach my lady the why of removing cards 
from presents, explaining that their display invitejj 
comparison which is unpleasant. 



SOCIAL UPS iz ' 



Indeed the value of- these little parties as an oppor- 
tunity to inculcate the principles of good breeding is 
very great; for the man or woman who learns manners 
and deportment before the age of ten never loses them 
in the sixty or more years of after life. 

My lady and her brothers will go to children's 
parties until well on in their teens, when gradually 
they find themselves siding off into informal clubs and 
societies at church- and at school. The girls meet 
together from house to house, either to sew dainty 
things for charity, or to twang their mandolins and 
guitars; and the girl hostess has her first experiences 
with the chafing-dish and ice cream freezer. Occa- 
sionally they entertain their brothers; and though the 
thanks are apt to take the form of teasing and making 
fun, everybody knows the boys enjoy the feasts, else 
why do they take the girls coasting, or coax their 
mothers for little dances and Saturday matinee parties ? 

Coming- Out Parties 

All this time my lady may have her visiting card 
if she likes, bearing her full name, Elizabeth Martin 
Graham, either with or without the prefix Miss, and 
never using a pet name or diminutive. When she is 
to be introduced into society her name is engraved on 
her mother's card, thus: 

Mrs. Alfred Sogers Graham 
Miss Graham 

and according to strict convention she must call with 



xa THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



her mother altogether, and wait a year before she can 
have cards of her own again (using her schoolgirl 
ones for very informal affairs), after which the bits of 
pasteboard will be engraved Miss Graham. 

The introduction is made at a tea or reception 
given by the girl's mother; and engraved invitations 
announcing that Mrs. Alfred Rogers Graham (with Miss 
Graham's name underneath) will be at home on. such 
a day from 4 until 7, are sent to every lady and 
gcntlemail, irrespective of age, with whom the mother 
desires to keep up her social relations. It is an unfor- 
givable slight to be left out of the number invited to 
meet one's friend^s daughter. 

The invitations require no acknowledgment, but 
flowers may be sent to the girl; and the debutante of 
to-day lias little enough pleasure in this first reception 
beyond the flQwers she receives; for whereas her mother, 
some twenty odd years ago, was introduced by a grand 
ball, and danced the night away without a touch of 
responsibility, my lady is simply and girlishly dressed, 
with high neck and long sleeves, and spends the time 
soberly standing at the door by her mother's side, to 
receive the guests as they come. One of the points a 
well-bred woman makes on this occasion is to present 
the girl to the guests, and not the guests to the 
debutante. 

The visitors speak with their hostesses a minute 
or t^o and then greet other friends; and it may be 
remarked here that even in the most informal call a 
man or woman of good manners always speaks to the 



SOCIAL LIPS Z3 



hostess before recognizing anyone else who may be 
present. It is a mark of ill-breeding among the guests 
if the mother and daughter are left standing alone at 
the door; but when others crowd about them you may 
pass on into the room where refreshments are being 
served, and may finally slip away without good-byes. 
Even this apparent rudeness has its reason in a nicety 
of feeling, and the present-day function is all the pleas- 
anter for not being broken up by the alarm of the first 
retiring guest^s expression of thanks. 

My lady is now grown up, and is invited fo all 
the entertainments given by her mother's friends; and 
of course she knows that to get pleasure from social 
intercourse with men and women she must be 
dominated by the social feeling — ^the desire and 
determination to be happy in things as they come, 
rather than to set her heart in certain directions and 
strive to bend the world that way. She is, therefore, 
sweet-tempered and smiling on all occasions, witty only 
when her sharpness is complimentary, with eyes and 
ears and heart open to other people's charms, and deaf 
and blind to those unpleasantnesses which are sure to 
occur in her presence from time to time. 



LUNCHEONS, DINNERS AND WEDDINGS 
Luncheons and Breakfasts 

After nibbling at all the gayeties in turn, my lady 
finds that nothing is more real pleasure than a luncheon. 



Z4 THB GOOD HOUSBKSEPINO HOSTESS 



It may be a formal affair in honor of some visiting lady 
■—men and luncheons rarely go together — or just a small 
gathering of friends to chat over a dainty dish for 
which the hostess is famed in her admiring circle. la 
either. case wines are going out of style, and effervescent 
waters are more and more used in their place. All one's 
artistic taste may be used in decorating the luncheon 
table^ as it belongs more individually to the hostess 
than that for the soberer dinner; and though fashion 
declares favors out of grace just now, it is no offense 
against good form to have at each place some trifle 
which by its pleasant humor will add* to the merriment 
of the party. 

In fact, conventionality has never got a good grip 
on the luncheon; and though engraved cards are some- 
times used and elaborate courses follow each other on 
the dainty table> nobody wants to be stiff, and any 
agreeable innovation on the part of the hostess is surfe 
to be appreciated. 

When luncheon is announced the hostess leads the 
way to the dining room without formality, and seats her 
guests, and if she is wise she has thought out the matter 
of congenial neighbors witji as much care as for a 
dinner; or she may find place cards convenient, and 
they are entirely correct. 

The hour for luncheon is usually half after 1, 
the matter of time being its chief distinction from 
a breakfast, as the latter is served at noon; though 
another point of difference is that while luncheons are 
frequently given without any more particular meaning 



SOCIAL LIFE 15 



than the enjoyment, breakfasts come after certain 
ceremonies or occasions, as for instance, a wedding 
breakfast or a hunt breakfast. 

Formal Dinners 

Dinners are the weightiest of all entertainment, 
from every point of view, and despite the present 
movement toward simplicity of food, the courses remain 
as many and as elaborate as the hostess dares under* 
take, but she must surelv not dare more than she can 
carry through. 

People who give many dinners keep on hand 
engraved invitation cards, into which the name and 
date are written. These are sent out about two weeks 
in advance, or earlier if the guest is apt to be very 
; much engaged. Every member of the household who 
I is to be present at the table should be in the drawing 
I room to greet the arriving guests; and guests should 
avoid with equal care a too early and a tardy arrival, 
i The dinner hour varies from half after 6 to 8 o'clock. 
The formal practice of having a servant present to 
each man guest a salver from which he takes an envel- 
ope addressed to himself containing on the card the 
name of his partner for dinner, is obviated at most 
home dinners by more original and often entertaining 
devices. The host with the diief lady guest passes to 
the farther end of the dining room, the other couples 
follow more or less formally, the hostess coming last 
with the man she wishes to honor. 



i6 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

It is quite within the bounds of good taste for the 
table to be lavish with silver, fine linen and flowers, 
but there must be no useless pieces; everything must 
fill a need, and tlie tout ensemble must have the appear- 
ance of being planned for the convenience and delight 
of the guests and not for vulgar display of wealth. The 
lighting must be so arranged as to throw nobody into a 
disagreeable or unbecoming shadow, and the decorations 
should not be high enough to obstruct the view between 
any two persons. 

The forks are used as they come, beginning with 
the outermost one. If one wishes to decline wine, it 
is done by a quiet word or gesture to the servant. 

It is correct in these sensible times to enjoy 
the goodly feast set before you, keeping your enjoy- 
ment within bounds, and doing your part toward the 
dinner talk. 

The hostess gives the sign to rise and the men 
stand until the ladies have passed out, then return to 
the table for wine and cigars, while coffee is served in 
the -drawing room. If one woman is specially honored 
by the dinner, she is the first to leave, about an hour 
after the men have returned to the drawing room ; and 
it need hardly be mentioned that any entertainment 
where one has been feasted in a particularly reserved 
seat and one of an exclusively chosen party demands 
good-byes and a pleasant word of appreciation to the 
hostess. No slipping away after a dinner, luncheon 
or breakfast. 



SOCIAL LIFE 17 



- Weddings 

One morning in May after my lady has been out 
some two years, the postman leaves at the door of a 
certain house a large thick white envelope, sealed and 
bearing a two-cent stamp. Mrs. Bennett opens it at 
the tete-a-tete breakfast and hands it to her husband, 
with the comment that she knew it could not be put 
off much longer, Bess was too pretty, and Mr. Bennett 
reads in Old English engraved letters: 

Dr. and Mrs. Alfred Rogers Graham 

request the honor of 

Mr. and Mrs. Bennett's 

presence at the marriage of their daughter 

Elizabeth Martin 

and 

Mr. Thomas Mason 

on Wednesday, June the eighth 

at twelve o'clock 

Grace Church 



''May weddings are unlucky," his wife adds, "I am 
glad they put it well into June." 

Presents begin to pour into the Graham house, and 
my lady, being trained in gentle manners from her 
babyhood, arranges them to be looked at; and when she 
takes off the cards makes a note on each one of just 
which gift it accompanied, lest she forget before she is 
well accustomed to the many new possessions. In her 
note of thanks to each friend she mentions the article 



i8 THE GOOD HOU3EK££PINQ HOSTESS 

specifically, thus showing that she is not careless of it 
nor of the giver. 

All the shopping and sewing is finished a week 
before the wedding day, and my lady devotes the time, 
the prospective groom being considerate on this point, 
to her parents- and brothers. She has many things to 
arrange, however; she asks certain girl friends to hs 
her attendants, the dearest of all the maid (sometimes 
matron) of honor, and plans with them their gowns, 
rememberins: to select fabric and stvle suitable for other 
occasions later on, in case the girls be not well-to-do. 

After the wedding the;re is a reception at the home 
of the bride's parents, arid so quietly have the plans 
been laid that while the guests are enjoying the lunch- 
eon at the small tables scattered through three rooms, 
somebody laughingly calls out that the young couple is 
stealing into a carriage to slip off to the train. Then 
there is a merry scramble to the front door, and the 
traditional rice and old shoes are thrown after the 
already speeding carriage. The shoe custom has its 
meaning, so "^^ays one authority at least, in the idea that 
tlie young husband with such a weapon may enforce the 
obedience promised at the altar. The hone3rmoon is 
spent at the country house of some friend, or on a house- 
boat, and after the four weeks a little trip across the 
waters is much favored in the smart set. 

Shortly after the wedding a call is due the bride's 
mother from each one who received an invitation, and 
the bride must also be called on as soon as she has 
returned and is settled down. 



. c .* 



SOCIAL LIFE 1 9 



. The next. years bring a continuation of the gayeties 
of young ladyhood. It is not strictly good form for a 
3^oung matron to chaperon girls no younger or less 
experienced than herself; neither she nor her husband 
may be invited alone to any function where both men 
and women are to be present, nor may one accept an 
invitation which the other declines, unless there is some 
unusual and very good reason, in which case the wife 
would go with . her mother, or chaperoned like an 
unmarried woman. 

In Bereavement 

As life goes on, sorrows as well as joys come to 
my lady. Mr. Bennett, a family friend, dies, and 
flowers are sent to the house, no longer great set forms, 
nor exclusively white and purple blossoms, but long- 
stemmed flowers of any color, tied with white satin 
ribbons. My lady calls on Mrs. Bennett, and though 
she does not see her, leaves a note expressing in a few 
simple words her affection and sympathy. The only 
possible comfort one can give in time of bereavement 
is the assurance that the sorrow is shared by all the 
* circle of friends. It is not the time for a sermon but 
for words of human love. Where the number of letter^^i 
of condolence is too large to be answered with personal 
notes, it is sometimes the custom of the mourning 
family to issue small black-bordered cards, engraved 
with a few lines of appreciation. 



20 THB GOOD HOUSEKSBPINQ HOSTESS 

Wedding Anniversaries 

. The first wedding anniversaries are celebrated 
with merrymakings of any kind that may be suitable. 
Friends shower the couple with tin^ wooden and glass 
things in their proper turn; but when the silver 
wedding comes around ev<erybody is apt to have grown 
soberer. There is less frolicking^ and more serious 
rejoicing; and as silver is of greater value than tin 
and wood, it is good form only for relatives and close 
friends to make gifts at this celebration. 

Happy is my lady in having her mother still beside 
her at the silver wedding; and when fifty years have 
passed since that June marriage day, and the golden 
wedding cards go out to the narrowing circle of old- 
time friends, thrice blessed is she because of the sons 
and daughters to tiie third generation gathered about 
her chair. The cards are engraved in gold, and bear 
the names of the one-time boy and girl, with the date 
of their marriage, above the invitation to the reception. 
In the lower left corner appear the words No presents ; 
for indeed my lady feels that she has had her share 
of the material things of earth, and that nothing can • 
add one jot to the joy of seeing about her the faces of 
those she loves. She smiles serenely at the gteat cup 
her sons and grandsons bring to the white-haired lovers ; 
and says, as she strokes the head of the boy at her knee : 
"It 13 beautiful, but it is not purer gold than I have 
had in my life since I saw the curls of my first baby — - 
your grandmother* my dear/' 



SOCIAL LIFE ax 



And thus we may well leaVe her ; caressing the 
3oft golden hair of the youngest of her blood, her other 
handclasped in that one which has led her tenderly 
and well from a blossoming maidenhood into the per- 
fect flower of a gracious and beauteous old age. 



.v1' 



DINNERS 



DINNERS 

A DAINTY JUNB DINNER 
By Anne Warner 

"And little recks to find the way to heaven 
By doing deeds of hospitality." — Shakespeare. 

COMMON sense and a little experience soon enable 
one who so wills it to be an easy, if unpretentious, 
dispenser of many forms of entertainment in a 
home — to become "given to hospitality.^^ A dinner, 
however, should have something of a ceremonious char- 
acter; the name carries with it certain obligations and 
dignities. The true gourmet insists that at this meal, at 
least, the napery, the lights, the service, the materials 
and the cooking of them shall be the best to be obtained, 
circumstances considered, for the gourmet is also a phil- 
osopher. A wise woman always endeavors to suit her 
menu to the season, and it is easy indeed to tempt the 
early summer appetite. Moderation is the golden rule 
of dinner giving, and quality, not quantity, is what 
pleases ; overcrowding dishes is a mistake common to 
beginners, yet variety we all desire. With cold storage, 
quick transportation, kiln drying, modern canning and 
the hothouse, almost every delicacy may be had the year 
round — if the purse is long — but fortunately this con- 
dition of things does not take the keen edge of delight 
from the first native-grown asparagus or atrawberries 



26 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

or. early peas, home garden tomatoes or new potatoes. 
xill through the spring, one good thing swiftly follows 
another, and the peculiar pleasure one has in fish, flesli 
and vegetables comes from their absolute freshness. It 
seems to me that the labor of making sure that supplies 
are fresh is effort well expended. 

While, upholding the dignity of the dinner table, 
I also believe in a degree of independence concerning 
certain accepted rules, latitude enough to allow ever}^ 
guest and every "peculiar" member of the family to 
enjoy himself to the full. I have lately read that *'a 
liostess should never risk her reputation by serving 
butter at dinner" — and I still serve it ! When tempted 
to leave off the butter plates I remember a certain 
lipliday long' ago when we were all bidden to a neigh- 
bor's to dine. The children sat at a separate table, ha 
small bovs abounded in both families. Butter iiot 
being forthcoming, my 3'Oungest brother, after a brief 
consultation with the next older, left the festive board, 
ran home and returned with a pound roll of the desired 
lubricant, which his favored table proceeded to enjoy 
in all sobriety and innocence. I have often seen men at 
butterlcss dinners whom I know would have srladlv run 
a mile to supply the deficiency, so why, in all consciences, 
not offer butter to take or leave? For those to whonl'it 
seems as out of place at dinner as pie at breakfast^a 
firastronomic crime— it is well to instruct the cook tb 

o . .... 

roll the biscuit dough very tliih; ciit it into strips and 
roil these on the board till even and well routfded ; brush 
%vith softened butter and braid or twist. Cut iito 



DINNERS 37 



finger-lengths and pinch the ends together. The pocket- 
book shape makes an excellent dinner roll because of 
the generous piece of butter which can be put between 
the "flaps" before raising. 

For the following dinner the table, covered with a 
fine cloth, was adorned further with a Benares brass 
tray twelve inches square, the center containing a cir- 
cular mound of wet moss filled with beautiful pansy 
blossoms of all colors. The tray was set cornerwise on 
a round centerpiece richly embroidered in yellow. Four 
antique brass candlesticks, holding candles with large 
fluffy yellow silk shades, stood at equal distances about 
the centerpiece. Above the table was suspended a bell- 
shaped piece of perforated brass — rescued from a curio 
shop — fitted with electric bulbs and having a deep 
fringe of tiny gilt-lined glass beads. This arrangement 
cast a soft and pleasant light, upon which the success 
of all decoration so largely depends. Beside each plate 
was placed a small Benares tray holding a tall straight 
glass ornamented in gold. x\t the fourth course the 
glasses were half filled with shaved ice, and a maple 
punch made from an old and much prized family recipe 
was served in them. The proportions for this are one 
glass of water, one glass of Jamaica rum, three-quarters 
glass of strained lemon juice and one-half glass 6i maple 
syrup. Bottle and keep on ice. In serving dilute to 
taste with table or iced water. The siyiall dishes on 
the table were odd pieces of brass, lined with a lettuce 
leaf, a dainty bit of lace work or a glass saucAr, as the 
case called for. This decorative scheme was iised later 



^ . 4 • •' 



28 THE GOOD HOUSfilKEEPING HOSTESS 

for a luncheon, and most effective it proved to be on a 
bare table. Scattered pansies took, the place of the 
candlesticks, one of my "notions'* being nevei^'-— w'ith 
malice aforethought — to use artificial light when I can 
have God's sunsliine. In the luncheon menu a suitable 
course was substituted for the roast and the bouillon' 
was replaced by French strawberries, as the day was 
warm. 

French Strawberries — Fill punch cups one-thinl 
full of very ripe red berries, sliced; add a tablespoon of 
granulated sugar to each cup and fill three-quarters full 
with strained orange juice. Stir gently to dissolve 
sugar and set the cups into a pan of cracked ice till 
served. When these simple ingredients are first put 
together the combination of color is really dreadful to 
contemplate, so give the mixture at least three hours 
to ripen and beautify. Valencia oranges are the most 
satisfactory for this use at this time of year. 

MENU 

Chicken bouillon Soup balls 

Pulled bread 

Soft shell crabs Saiice tai-tare Holls 

Scotch eggs Olives Bechamel sauce 

Sirloin roast 

Potato puff Savory carrots 

Spring salad Cheese (in good company) 

Angel parfait Marrbns in coffee sauce 

Sponge eake • 

Salted pecans- Black coffee " 



DINNERS 2g 



There is a chicken bouillon prepared for invalids^ 
which comes in half -pint cans. It is better than any 
I have been able to make for well people. Heat it and 
add just before serving the 

Soup Balls — Chop the white meat of a chicken very 
fine and season highly with salt, pepper, onion juice 
and a little thyme or curry ; add enough yolk of egg to 
bind together. Koll into very small balls, shake in a 
plate of flour till covered and poach in boiling water. 
You will find the pulled bread in its perfection at the 
baker's. 

Have the crabs dressed at the market, but look them 
over carefully and wash before cooking. Dry them 
well, season with salt and pepper, dredge with flour and 
saute on both sides. Serve on a hot platter garnished 
with lemon, and pass 

Sauce Tartare — Stir into a cup of mayonnaise, 
two small sweet-pickled cucumbers, three olives and a 
handful of watercress chopped fine ; a few capers and a 
little onion juice. • 

If you live in that happy valley where yoja can 
get a fresh shad for this course, by all means substitute 
it. Broil it, garnish with quarters of lemon and 
with the roe, parboiled and boiled brown; rub with 
butter frequently while over the fire.: Many like 
shad spread with maitre d'hotel butter — the best of 
butter, lemon and chopped parsley mixed. To piany 
more this fish is synonymous with bones, their natural 
inheritance; but let us eat them as they are with. thank- 
ful hearts, hoping for the day when the scientists will 



30 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

present us witli boneless shad as they have with aeedless 
oranges. It has been demonstrated that shad can be 
bonjed, with patience, practice, Imow how and a small 
sharp knife ; tlie writer has yet to see a shad boned that 
18 not a fish spoiled. 

Scotch- Eggs — Cook six eggs hard and at the same 
time keep them tender by leaving in hot water just 
below the boiling point for one-half hour; cool and 
remove the shells. Cook to a paste one-third of a cupful 
of bread crumbs in one-third of a cupful of milk and 
add one cupful of deviled ham and one raw egg. Coyer 
the eggs with the mixture, roll in crumbs and fry brown 
in hot fat. Cut in halves lengthwise and send to table 
on a bed of parsley and garnish with bacon cooked in 
the manner given below : Slice as thin as possible. Hold 
the bacon, rind do^vn, and do not try to cut through it 
till you liavc the- required number of slices, then sliavo 
^t all at one time from the rind. Separate the slices 
nnd lay on a fine wire broiler, put over a pan and place 
in a liot oven till the bacon is transparent. 

your "John Anderson'^ may dote on carving; be 
may have respect for the symmetry of your table ap- 
pointments; he may be grace and skill combined and 
personified ; if so, I have no suggestions to oflEer anent 
the serving of a roast. We have it carved, at the latest 
]x)ssible moment, and :set before the host to be distrib- 
uted with pleasure to all, more especially perhaps to the 
host and his opposite.;. The necessary cutting can be 
done -in tlie. - kitchen without greatly changing 4;he 
appearance of the dish. 



DINNERS 3t 



Potato Puff — Soak old potatoes for several hours 
and boil in Baited water. To two cups of potato mashed 
or put through a rieer add two tablespoons of butter, 
one teaspoon of salt and a little white pepper; fold in 
the whites of two eggs whipped stiff. Bake in a but- 
tered dish. Or dare to serve that almost unheard-of 
dainty, plain, well-boiled potatoes — Bermudas— raiid 
Bend round a gravy made in the old-fashioned way in 
the roasting pan. Is there anything much better? 

Savory Carrots — Scrape, then cut new carrots into 
straws. Gook tender in salted water and drain dry. 
Season with salt, pepper and a little onion juice and 
return to the kettle with a generous piece of butter and 
shake till hot and glazed. Pile on a dish in pyramid 
form, add a cup of fresh green peas well seasoned and 
a sprinkling of chopped parsley. 

Simple and apparently very acceptable individual 
salads of lettuce hearts, sprinkled with celery seed and 
glazed with French dressing, came next. Koquefort 
cheese in a dish with a coVer was passed at the same 
time "for them as wanted it"; also cream cheese and 
white bar-le-duc, with toasted wafers and unsalted 
butter, a delightful combination. 

Angel Parfait (M Bonald) — Whip whites of three 
eggs to a stifif froth. Put half a cupful of sugar and 
same of water into a saucepan on the fire. Stir 
until the sugar is dissolved, then cook slowly, without 
touching, till a little dropped into cold water will form 
a ball when rolled between the fingers. Pour three 
tablespoonfuls of the boiling hot syrup slowly- onto the 



32 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

whipped whites, beating constantly. Add a teaspoonf ul 
of noyan, and when cold, a pint of cream, whipped stiif . 
Mold and pack in a form (with a flat top) for four 
hours. Vanilla mousse can be used as the base of the 
dessert, if preferred. 

Marrons in Coffee Sauce — Heat in a saucepan one- 
half a cupful of black coffee and one-quarter cupful of 
thick cream; thicken with the yolks of two eggs and 
two teaspoons of sugar beaten together. Drain bran- 
died marrons, cut in halves if very large, and add to the 
sauce while hot, but set away to get cold before either 
pouring over the parfait or passing with it. Eat with 
fresh homemade sponge cake. I experimented with a 
bottle of noisettes in marasquin as a sauce for a parfait 
Avith great success not long ago, but at this season the 
use of all sucli fol-de-rols presupposes that you have had 
strawberries for breakfast and luncheon, and era^e 
"the spice of life.^* 



AN ABBREVIATED DINNER 
By Bee Practical 

Wliether the majority of people have wearied of 
"china dinners'* or simply crave change, the dinner of a 
few courses is certainly "in.** A roast is looked upon 
as an intrusion; even the sweet is getting lighter, and 
moderation reigns. The funny man says that present 
methods in cookery have. brought it about that many 
would rather cook than eat — ^by making it more fun 



DINNERS 33 



to cook and less fun to eat 1 I hope his wife will invite 
him and a few of his cronies to try the following menu : 

Tomatoes en surprise 
Fillets of flounder stuffed \ 

Savory crusts 
Cucumbers Potatoes 

Duck Orange smack 

Olives Bolls 

Turquoise salad Toasted wafers 

Baked Alaskas 

Crystallized pineapple and ginger 

Orange curacoa 

This was recently served at a table with unique _ 
decorations. A large globe of Japanese goldfish rchted 
on a circular mirror mat, the latter surrounded by a 
full border of maidenhair fern. By the way, keep this 
fern either submerged, or well sprinkled with water, 
and in a cool place, till the last possible moment, before 
arranging. Abnormal in form and beautiful in color 
were some of the strange little water jewels; rare 
niother-of -pearl fringe-tails, bright gold lace and fan- 
tails, comets and shining black telescopes. The flashes 
from their continuous motion made a centerpiece which 
vied in brilliancy and oriental effect with the candle 
shades of iridescent beads which ornamented the candles 
at the corners of the table. The shades were strung of 
heads of different colors and sizes and had a fringe of 
the same. Fastened on to wire frames they well repay 
the trouble of making, as they are not perishable. 



34 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

ft 

At each place was a small green jardiniere holding a 
pot of growing ferns, queer and unusual varieties being 
selected. Upright in the foliage appeared a miniature 
bamboo rod with 'a line attached, from which dangled a 
realistic goldfish (caught at the caterer's) and made to 
do duty as a name card. Just before the finger bowls 
were set on, two or three magic flowers were dropped 
into each. These blossom ^'while you waif' and can 
be purchased at any Japanese store. 

For the first dish, if you will go yourself to a hot- 
house for the tomatoes, you may be able to get them 
with the pretty green calyx left on each, to make a 
handle to the slice you cut from the stem end for a 
cover.' Otherwise insert a large clove, or an apple stem, 
or even a wooden toothpick wound with ribbon, to serve 
the purpose. Peel the tomatoes and ice them after 
taking out the seeds. Mix the pulp wdth small, choice 
oysters or clams, season with equal parts of chili sauce 
and catsup, and add horse-radish, paprika and lemon 
juice to taste. Fill the tomatoes, put on the covers 
and serve in glass sauce dishes containing shaved ice. 
Eat cup and all. 

Have the fillets cut from small fish ; they are more 
delicate. Wash, dry, roll in seasoned flour and put a 
layer in a buttered roasting pan. Make a stuffing by 
mixing thoroughly half a tablespoon of flour, two of 
butter, yolks of two eggs, a teaspoon of salt, saltspoon 
of white pepper and a dash of red, and the following 
herbs chopped very fine: one teaspoon each of onions 
and parsley, two tablespoons of celery and a quarter of a 



DINNER 35 



can of French mushrooms. Spread a layer over each 
fillet and cover with another fillet. Protect with a 
buttered paper and bake in a hot oven twelve or fifteen 
minutes. Remove the paper, drain the remaining 
mushrooms, add them to the fish and cook three min- 
utes more. Serve very hot and squeeze over them a 
quarter of a lemon and arrange the buttons around. 

Cut the tops from small rolls and remove the soft 
inside, for the crusts; butter and brown in the oven. 
Make a rich white sauce, using asparagus liquor and 
cream for wetting. Add two cups of asparagus tips 
and one of peas, and fill the shells. 

Prepare the cucumbers as usual; dry and season 
with a dressing made the same as French dressing, 
substituting thick cream in place of oil (a new wrinkle), 
and sprinkle the whole with chopped chives. Let the 
potatoes be of the Saratoga order, though the accommo- 
dating tuber may be contorted and convoluted by 
novelty cutters, or beguiled into any admired shape. 

Serve half a duck breast to a person, and have 
enough for a second helping. When partly roasted, 
baste with a little Madeira and cook until the blood is 
out, but not the juice. There are some who profess to 
like their duck ^^run through the oven,^^ but they are 
the minority. The side dish with this course is made 
by slicing sour oranges and sprinkling them with a 
mixture of Maraschino, brandy and orange bitters. 
Apple sauce, in quarters or sifted — ^hot or cold — is 
always acceptable with duck, and olive sauce is relished 
by many. 



36 THE GOOD HOUSEKBBPINQ HOSTESS 



The turquoise salad — so it is called at a world- 
renowned hostelry — ^was evidently named by ^ the rule of 
contraries. We rechristened it coral salad. The in- 
gredients are shredded celery, bleached romaine and 
pimentoes cut in l,ong, slender pieces; the proportion 
of celery being somewhat greater than the other two. 
Eomaine is not always to be had, but lettuce is ever 
with us. The dressing is mayonnaise and — ^between 
us — the best hotel dressing never equals the homemade 
product. Each plate holds an added tidbit made of a 
crisp, tender stalk of celery selected from those growing 
just outside the heart. The concave side of the stalk 
is heaped with cream cheese, seasoned, moistened with a 
little cream or dressing, and mixed with chopped walnut 
meats. This novel garnish is eaten from the fingers 
as if the celery were plain, and the whole combination 
is most delicious — if the inventor was color blind! 
A touch of red can be put in the cheese if desired. 

Of the tantalizing sort is the dessert, the kind that 
makes one resolve to find opportunity to try her hand 
at it without delay. Yet it is, perhaps, too difficult for 
an amateur to undertake. Fill small pyramid molds 
with French ice cream. Always a solid, fine-grained 
cream, for this purpose it should have been made still 
more solid by an additional number of ^gg yolks. Put 
the molds into a freezing box or into a pail. Seal the 
joints of the pail tightly with butter and bury in ice 
and salt. Molds packed in this way require to stand 
longer than those which come in direct contact with 
the freezing mixture, and these must be veritable 



DINNERS 37 



Alaskas for coldness. Prepare discs of sponge cake the 
size of the flat surface of the molds and three-quarters 
of an inch thick, and set' at some distance apart on a 
hardwood board covered with waxed paper. Make a 
meringue, allowing one-quarter cup of powdered sugar 
and a sprinkle of salt to each egg white; beat till 
smooth and firm enough to hold its shape. TJnmold 
the cones of cream with great care, set the base of each 
on to a circle of cake, coat instanter with a covering of 
meringue and color slightly on the top slide of a piping 
hot open; or, far better, brown separately and evenly 
with a salamander iron. The Alaskas are usually large 
enough to cut in halves at the table, making t^vo 
portions. 

Savarin said: ''The discovery of a new dish doe-' 
more for the happiness of the human race than the 
discovery of a planet.^' But if there are "nerves" in 
the kitchen, either when you are there or not, serve 
the following older delicacy : Line a melon mold with 
a thin layer of pistachio ice cream; nearly fill the 
center with French cream (which is yellow), leaving a 
small space in the center of this to be filled witli 
pignolias mixed with barely enough cream to bind 
them together. Repack in ice and salt to ripen. 
Thicklv strew the surface of the melon when unmolded 
with the same nuts — or almonds — ^browned and chopped, 
to simulate a rind. Trim plate with maidenhair. 

For orange curacoa, thoroughly clean the rind, then 
make cups of tough-skinned oranges by cutting in 
halves crosswise and turning the peel backward. Set 



n 



38 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

puljD side down on a small plate containing a coffee 
spoon, and serve one to each individual. Said individ- 
uals help themselves to a lump or two of loaf sugar 
and a tablespoon of brandy, when these are passed, and 
the host then starts a tiny alcohol lamp and matches 
round the table to light the brew. A little manipula- 
tion with the spoon extracts the essential oil from the 
peel while the liquor is burning away, and a seasoning 
of mace and - cinnamon may be added during this 
process if it is considered an improvement. The remain- 
ing liquid is sipped from the spoon when the flame 
has subsided; if preferred, it may be poured into a 
cordial glass of fine ice, or be added to the black coffee. 
Some cherish the illusion that this is the Olympian 
nectar, and others — ^liold a different opinion; but 
whichever view one takes, ^tis an excellent digester and 
a very pretty after-dinner plaything. 



A COMPANY DINNER 
By Anne Warner 

Menu cards are no longer used on private tables. 
Place cards, either perfectly plain or beautifully dec- 
orated for souvenirs, each bearing the name of a guest, 
may be put at the side of the plates. They are useful 
in indicating the seat w^hich each member of the party 
is to occupy. If wine or mineral water is to be served 
and a cooler is not at hand, put the bottles in a pail 
with crushed ice and a little rock salt, and cover with a 



DINNERS 39 



piece of carpet. Submerge the body of the bottles only. 
This precaution will do away with the necessity of 
rinsing the salt water from about the corks, sometimes 
a difficult task. It is well to have a doily wrapped 
round the bottle for convenience in serving, unless the 
host objects when it covers a label dated B. C. 

On this dinner table two Dresden candelabra, 
holding groups of candles with semi-transparent painted 
shades, stood together, high in the center. The table 
was covered with a mass of pink June roses mixed with 
foliage, leaving only enough space around the edge to 
hold plates, glasses and other necessaries. The roses 
shaded from dark pink ones in the center to pale pink 
at the edge, and the arrangement caused much enthu- 
siasm (and a great dearth in the garden). The stems 
were cut short and stuck into wet sand in flat tins, 
which held them firmly in place and kept them fresh. 
The light of the room was concentrated upon the table, 
making it the center of attraction, as it should be. The 
dessert plates and after-dinner coffee cups were Dresden 
china. 

MEKU 

Clams Eadishes Sandwiches 

Consomme royale Olives Wafers 

Brook trout Cresses Rolls 

Saddle of lamb Mint sauce 

x^sparagus Potato apples 

Currant jelly Strawberry punch 

Summer salad Cheese balls 



40 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



Sandwiches 

Prune souffle Brandy sauce 

Figs in cordial Salted almonds 

Black coffee 

Serve the clams on the shells in deep plates of 
cracked ice, with a radish in the center of each dish. 
Leave a hit of the green stem, cut and turn back five 
strips of the red peel of the radishes. Mix a littlo 
horse-radish with butter for the filling of the sand- 
wiches and cut in any ])retty shape. 

The consomme should be clarified till brilliant. 
For the custard beat two eggs moderately, add two 
tablespoonfuls of milk and season with pepper and salt. 
Butter a laige flat pan, set it in another one containing 
hot water and bake very slowly till set. It should not 
even brown on top. When the soup is in the tureen, 
cut the custards into forms with a tiny fancy cutter, 
without first removing from the pan, and add carefully 
to the consomme. 

If the annual trouting fever "strikes" one of your 
family, then is the time to give this dinner ; but if the 
attack comes inconveniently, do the next best thing. 
What you want is fresh brook trout. Almost all hotels 
and some markets have chances to buy these of ^'lone 
fishermen," and wall do j^ou the favor (and His r favor) 
of getting them for you. When the trout are dressed, 
dry thoroughly with a soft cloth and sprinkle inside 
with a little pepper (that is what my fisherman says!). 
EoU in Indian meal and saute in hot salt pork fat. 



DINNERS 4X 



Serve in a border of watercresses and do not spoil with 
other relishes or sauces. 

Have the saddle well done and carved in long thin 
slices parallel with the bone, if the lamb is heavy, or 
across and serve the ribs if very small. Use the tender 
tips of mint only, for the sauce. Stand for an hour 
or so in about half a cup of mild vinegar mixed with 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Wash the asparagus care- 
fully and tie into bundles. Cut from the tough end 
of the stalks enough to make them of uniform length 
and boil in salted water till tender, but not limp. Put 
on buttered toast, cut and pull off the strings and 
season with salt and pepper and melted butter. Use 
an asparagus fork for serving. 

Prune Souffle — Wash one-half pound of sweet 
prunes; soak over night, cook soft, remove the stones 
and chop fine. Whip th(^ whites of four eggs stiff; 
gradually adding one-half a cupful of powdered sugar 
and a pinch of cream of tartar. Fold lightly into the 
prunes and bake about twenty minutes in a buttered 
pndding dish. Serve either with whipped cream 
sweetened and flavored and the figs in cordial, or with 
a foamy brandy sauce. It is better hot. If you have 
no holder for the pudding dish it can be made more 
presentable by folding a large napkin cornerwise and 
pinning (invisibly) around the dish and setting on a 
pretty plate. 

Potato Apples — Prepare a croquette mixture, form 
into small balls and roll in eggs and crumbs. Flatten 
slightly and put a clove in one side for the eye; make 



42 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

a little depression in the opposite side and stick in it 
an apple stem and fry. By shaping differently you 
can have "pears," if you like. 

Strawberry Punch — Boil a quart of water and two 
and one-half cupfuls of sugar for about ten minutes, 
add one cupful and a quarter of strawberry juice, and 
cool. Before freezing add half a cupful of Maraschino 
and it* will then not freeze hard. Serve in cups. 

Summer Salad — Select six fresh cucumbers all the 
same size. Pare, cut in halves lengthwise, scoop out 
the centers and lay in water till wanted. Dry and fill 
with a mixture of sweetbreads and peas, dressed with 
mayonnaise. Set on a green lettuce leaf on individual 
plates. Serve with dainty plain bread and butter 
sandwiches and 

Cheese Halls — Mix thoroughly a cup and a half of 
grated cheese, a little salt and pepper and the whites 
of three eggs, beaten stiff. Shape into little rolls, cover 
with broad dust, fry in deep fat and drain on blotting 
paper. 

The dessert for this month is strawberries, if voii 
can get them in their perfection; but market straw- 
berries are so seldom anvthinc: but a "delusion and a 
snare !" If you use them, substitute some other fruit 
juice in the punch. The black coffee may be mado 
over an alcohol lamp, at table, or in a French drip 
coffee pot; or better still, be served to the guests after 
they have left the dining room. 



DINNERS 43 



THE HARVEST HOME 
By Anne Warner 

That is what we call it — this dinner that ends our 
autumn holiday. The garnerings of the outing are 
pure air, fresh odors and pleasant sights, relaxed nerves, 
sweetened tempers, rested bodies — ^and appetites. The 
capsheaf is the harvest home. The 6ne described here 
is one of a number that have been enjoyed by a fortu- 
nate few at the termination of extended annual drives 
through the Berkshire hills. 

It is an unwritten law of the party that the dinner, 

whether given at the home of the genial host of these 

pleasure trips, or at the country house of one of his 

guests, shall be celebrated in the open air; so, out in 

the indefinable atmosphere of this season, before the 

dreamy hush of autumn becomes oppressive, while the 

hazy air contains no dampness and the chill of evening 

brings nothing but a feeling of exhilaration, the little 

parting feast of good things is spread. That is to say, 

sometimes — but tell it not to a native of New England 

without this word of reservation. Truly our perfect 

October day is bright and beautiful as a rainbow, but 

alas, as brief and fugitive ; therefore, the stay-at-home, 

combining a knowledge of this fact with that of the 

unreliability of men and horses, served this particular 

dinner on the large hospitable veranda— ^thus keeping 

within the letter of the law — and was justified when 

the wayfarers appeared two hours later than schedule 



44 THE GOOD HOUSEKEBPINQ HOSTESS 

time, with an early hunter's moon sulking behind 
a cloud. 

Across the one end of the veranda where possibly 
the outside world might peep in, she put a close row 
of small evergreen trees, making an effective screen 
and background; while, arranged in corners, envelop- 
ing pillars, hanging from every available cornice and 
ornament, "October's crimson banners flew/' A flam- 
ing maple, whose changing foliage had been watched 
for days, contributed largely, and with long branches 
of richly-tinted, shining oak leaves and a touch of the 
yellow and brown of chestnut leaves and burs, combined 
to make a place beautiful to the eye ; while hidden 
among these, bunches of wild grapes still on the vines, 
added their ineffable but unmistakable incense, to the 
gratification of another sense. 

The center of the table held a large loosely-woven 
grass basket, tipped on its side and pouring forth evi- 
dence of the maturity and bounty of the "fall o' -the 
year/^ Clusters of purple Concord grapes, golden-green 
Niagaras and tiny pink Delawares blended their bloom 
and color in the profusion that tumbled out among 
the soft tufts of a tangle of feathery clematis vine, 
which started under the basket and ran with riotous 
and apparently unstudied freedom over the cloth. 
Nothing of a hothouse growth may come to these feasts, 
if you please — consistency, thou art a jewel ! 

The place cards wore rolls of thin birch bark which 
curled round the extreme ends of the clematis. When 
"night tlirew her mantle o'er the skies and pinned it 



DINNERS 45 



with a star/^ the table wa8 lighted by tlio twinkling 
beams from many unshaded bayberry candles. These 
candles, by the way, are made by an old resident back 
in the country on Long Island and are the result of a 
mysterious process of extracting the wax from bay- 
berries. They are green in color and give out a faint 
odor favorable to reminiscence. And now to the baser 
attractions of the menu. 

Clams 

Corn soup Croutons 

Smelts Sauce tartare 

Tomatoes Rolls 

Saddle venison JeDv sauce 

Sweet potatoes Brussels sprouts 

Boiled chestnuts 

Roman punch 

Broiled quail Hominy crescents 

October salad 
Grandmother's ])udding Snowdrift sauce 

Fig dainty 
Grapes Clieese and wafers Coffee 

At each cover the clams radiated from the conven- 
tional lemon half, but the latter rested within a little 
circle of the choicest of the late flow^ering nasturtiums 
that the garden afforded. The sandwiches served with 
them were made of thin buttered rounds of white bread, 
with a filling of spicy nasturtium petals and very young 
leaves. The condiments were green pepper sauce — 
and hunger. 



46 THE GOOD HOUS£K££PINQ HOSTESS 

Outspoken nuembers of the family go so far as to 
say that they know with absolute certainty what soup 
will invariably be offered during the corn season^ if 
the stay-at-home has control of the menu. It seems 
so excellent to her that she offers the recipe here. 

Corn Soup — One pint of corn pulp, the kemeU 
having been slashed with a sharp knife and the corn 
scraped from the cob. Three pints of boiling water, 
one of rich milk, one cup of white stock, three table- 
spoons of butter, one tablespoon of flour; yolks of two 
eggs, pepper, salt and a few drops of onion juice. 
Cook the cobs in the water twenty minutes; remove 
tliem, add corn pulp and boil the same length of time; 
rub through a colander — nearly all should pass through 
if the corn has been properly prepared. Season, cover 
and keep hot. Make a smooth white sAuce of the 
butter, flour and stock in the regular way; add to the 
soup and boil up together. Heat the milk in another 
saucepan, pour upon the beaten yolks and cook one 
minute; season, stir both parts together, and when in 
the tureen garnish with whipped cream "stars.'^ Serve 
with hot buttered croutons. The only drawback to the 
ordinary use of this soup at dinner is that it is a 
whole meal in itself; it needs a "touring'^ appetite. 

October is tlie appointed time to eat green smelts 
in any case, and to the hill travelers they were doubly 
acceptable, for, as one of them said : "We haven^t had 
anything in or on the fish line between Cape Cod 
turkey and trout !'' 

Fried Smelis — Selected smelts were washed, dried, 



DINNERS 47 



sprinkled with salt and popper, dipped in cream and 
rolled in very fine bread crumbs. They had been made 
into rings by gashing diagonally and pinning head 
and tail together with wooden toothpicks (removed 
after frying), and were cooked in a wire basket in deep 
fat. They appeared at table on a round platter cov- 
ered with a folded napkin, were garnished with parsley, 
and served with their sauce, tiny rolls, and ripe, meaty, 
cold tomatoes. 

In cooking venison, first and foremost it is to be 
remembered that it should be rather underdone than 
otherwise. The finest portion is the saddle; next the 
haunch, which includes one-half the loin; the third 
best joint is the neck. 

Butter a large sheet of writing paper, sprinkle with 

salt and place over the fat, make a coarse paste and 

cover the lean part. Roast in a piping hot oven, basting 

• repeatedly. Fifteen minutes before it is done, remove 

paper and paste, baste with a little butter, and brown. 

For sauce, heat together one-half cup of either port or 

claret and the same of clear stock and pour over a 

small glass of currant jelly. The chestnuts should be 

hot and well salted, and have been carefully looked 

over by the cook before boiling ; this should not prevent 

the partaker from looking them over carefully on his 

own account. 

The methods of preparing the vegetables for this 
course were specialties of our colored major-domo. 

^weet Potatoes, Sovthern Style — In a large, flat- 
hottomed saucepan melt two heaping tablespoons of 



48 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



butter and one of sugar. Select medium-sized sweet 
potatoes to pare, cut in two lengthwise and season with 
salt and pepper. Closely cover the bottom of the kettle 
with the raw potatoes and put another layer on top. 
Pour on water to cover the lower layer, cover tightly 
and place over gentle heat, that the cooking may be 
slow. When the lower layer is well colored change 
to the top. By the time both are "dun brown'' the 
water will have evaporated, leaving a very little butter 
sauce to pour over the potatoes. 

Chloe's Brussels Sprouts — Remove any wilted 
leaves from the outside and let the sprouts stand a few 
minutes in cold water strongly salted. Cook uncov- 
ered till tender, in rapidly boiling water. Drain thor- 
oughly, then place in a saucepan containing a generous 
lump of butter, a Chili pepper and some celery salt, 
and toss till lightly browned. Just before serving 
remove the pepper and add a dash each of kitchen bou-« 
quet and fine Madeira. 

It is doubtless disheartening for epicures to be 
forced to learn that the prince of American game 
birds, the woodcock, is becoming extinct. These long- 
billed martyrs had a place in the original menu of 
this dinner, which was given before the edict went 
forth that "it shall be unlawful to buy, sell, or offer 
for sale, or have in possession for sale, any woodcock 
or ruffod grouse, commonly called partridge, whenever 
or wherever the said birds may have been taken or 
killed." So far, so good, say T! But between the 
first of October and the first of December we may stlJi 



DINNERS 49 



regale ourselves upon — "enjoy/^ if we can — the "poor 
Bob White" till his turn shall come to be protected. 
I would go hungry to desperation before I would eat 
one, and be the indirect cause of stilling a single throat 
that gives his inspiring call; but one must perforce 
give up one^s whims and notions to others' appetites, 
and this is a menu and not a sermon. To be sure, 
I eat other game with relish and avidity — didn't I 
just say something about consistency? 

Hominy Crescents are excellent to serve under 
birds. Put one-half cup of hominy in a double boiler 
with one-half cup of white stock; soak fifteen minutes, 
add one and a half cups hot milk and cook half an 
hour. Then stir in thoroughly one-half teaspoon of salt, 
one-quarter teaspoon of paprika, a few drops of onion 
juice and yolks of two eggs. Turn one-half an inch 
thick into a shallow pan; when cold cut into forms, 
crumb, egg and fry. 

October Salad — Pare Spitzenberg apples and cut 
into cubes; cut up an equal quantity of crisp, tender 
celery and the same of hickory nut meats. Mix and 
dress with a mayonnaise and serve in polished, rod- 
cheeked apples which have been hollowed out for the 
purpose. Set each impromptu dish on a brilliant 
autumn leaf. 

Grandmother C.'s pudding recipe comes down from 
the time when the taste and try method was in vogue, 
and descendants of the originator have ever since been 
proud to concoct all sizes of it by her elastic rule, 
unhampered by so much as a spoon or a cup. I give 



50 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

it with perhaps overmuch elaboration since hearing one 
younger branch of the family remark to another branch, 
with a pessimistic sniff: "What's the use of giving 
it to auA^body; nobody makes it right, outside of the 
family !" 

Buy a stale loaf of bread from the baker — a brick 
loaf — and since 3^ou will not be able to get it more 
than a day old, keep it till it reaches the advanced 
age of three days. The night before you expect to 
serve the pudding proceed as follows: With a sharp 
knife slice the bread very thin ("so that you can see 
through it/' says the pessimist) ; this is imperative. 
Put a layer in the bottom of the pudding dish — ancl 
thereby hangs another tale. This dish must be a heav^^ 
earthenware or stone crock, glazed inside and of a 
shape which resembles a flower pot, high and narrow ; 
I doubt if the pudding can have the proper appearance 
or flavor made in any other. Prepare the dish for the 
bread by greasing generously with butter "about the 
size of an eggJ' Add to the first layer a "sprinkling" 
of sugar, "just a pinch" each of allspice and cinnamon, 
a "grating" of nutmeg and a, "good handful" of im- 
ported Malaga raisins seeded and cut in halves. Con- 
tinue in this order till the pudding mold is full, 
finishing with a layer of bread. Heat a quantity of 
fresh, rich milk lukewarm; add a "savor" of salt and 
enough molasses to color the milk perceptibly, and pour 
slowly over the bread till by gently pressing the mass 
you can see the milk. Never stir it. Cover with a 
plate and leave in a moderately warm place all night. 



DINNERS 51 



It will shrink a little, and in the morning, if it seems 
dry, more prepared milk should be added before baking 
in an even oven for three or four hours, according 
to size. Keep it covered with an inverted deep plate 
for two hours of the time, then replace with a piece of 
brown paper. The pudding has a tendency to burn 
and must be carefully watched. Let it stand a few 
minutes when taken from the oven, with the mold 
wrapped in a folded cloth which has been wrung out 
of cold water, then put the serving plate over the top 
and it will turn out without sticking. It should not 
be stiff enough to keep the exact shape of the deep 
mold, but sink to a quivering, sponge-like mound cov- 
ered with a golden crust. Eat with a hard sauce when 
hot, and with a hot sauce when cold and equally appe- 
tizing. This was a favorite Thanksgiving dessert in 
"ye olden time," and Grandmother^s pudding is well 
worth experimenting with. 

Its accompaniments are the innovations of younger 
generations. The snowdrift sauce is a variety of, and, 
we think, an improvement upon, the regulation hard 
sauce. Make fine lemons into cups by cutting them 
into halves picket fashion. Eemove pulp and shave 
a bit from the bottom of each half to insure a flat 
surface. Beat together one-half cup of butter and one 
cup of powdered sugar until very white and light. The 
success of the sauce depends upon its long beating. 
Add one-half teaspoon of vanilla, two tablespoons of 
brandy and one-lialP a cup of thick whipped cream, or 
the whipped white of an Qgg, if preferred. Cool, heap 



52 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

lightly into the lemon cups (Grandmother always 
wanted a little nutmeg and lemon zest grated over hers) 
and serve very cold on small individual plates. 

Fig Dainty — Wash two pounds of bag figs and 
stew gently till tender in a little water, the juice of a 
lemon and half a cup of port. Cool before serving 
two on each plate with the sauce. 

The ripe Gorgonzola brought up the subject of 
the relative excellence of Italian cheeses, and a member 
of the party informed us that the experiment had lately 
been completed of keeping some Parmesan for one hun- 
dred and fifty years and that the cheese was found 
to be still delicious and "full of life and power"; 
we unanimously voted him guilty of ambiguity, if 
nothing worse. 

One last toa«t was drunk to the drive of the 
coming year, in — we will call it cider, as that is season- 
able; with jokes and reminiscences and friendly chaff- 
ing the guests left the table to gather round an open 
fire which had been built in the ingle nook of the 
veranda, while the masculine contingent smoked a peaco 
on earth cigar; and the dinner became one of the 
"has beens.'' 

THE WINTER FEAST 
By B. P. 

In thinking over the dinners I have given or hare 
assisted in giving, one belonging to the latter clasi^ 
always looms in my memory above the others, as being 



DINNERS 53 



the most difficult, and, at the same time the most 
enjoyable of them all (incongruous combination!) We 
were enduring the rigors of a northern "spell of 
weather,'^ and this, with the difficulties overcome in the 
struggle to seat twenty-eight persons at one table, had 
something to do with the impression, and maybe the 
fact that the dinner gown arrived with the guests was 
another reason for it. 

If a body could be planner and designer, personal 
purchaser and caterer, chief cook, table supervisor and' 
decorator, wine expert and general manager, without 
being smiling hostess as well, how it would simplify 
matters. How blest must be that estate when you can 
summon a chef and say: "Francois, we have twenty- « 
eight dining to-night,^^ and presto, it is done, and 
well done! I will come to earth and own that this 
is not at all the way we did it. We had plenty of 
help (?) to be sure, of the kind that (at times) one 
would have been glad to assist in finding the bottom 
of the Red sea, or some other equally distant main, 
but refrained from so doing because they wore a little 
more useful dry than wet. Incompetence, thou dost 
so prevail ! 

When the question of decoration was being dis- 
cussed in family conclave, the thought of the neces- 
sary expanse of table linen caused the hostess to exclaim 
dejectedly: "I don't know but we'll have to resort 
to ribbon furbelows to help out, if the ta})lo does look 
like a milliner's window; even that is better than allow- 
ing a florist to hold high carnival." Having duly 



54 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

considered the pros and cons of both the praetical 
r.nd the artistic sides of the question, the final ' plan 
made us independent of the wiles of the floristy and 
was, we thought, guiltless of the sin of overemhellish- 
ment; we didn't mind the work. The table was partl}^ 
prepared early in the day. In due time the florist 
was to bring the centerpiece, consisting of a mass of 
deep red Liberty roses, arranged upright on eight or 
ten-inch stems, in damp moss, on a shallow oblong 
basket or pan, the dimensions of which we knew. A 
piece of mousseline de soie, fifteen yards long and full 
width, and of the exact shade of the roses, was adjusted 
and pinned in place, as follows : starting from the cen- 
ter, the mousseline crossed diagonally the space allotted 
to the flowers; each half, starting diagonally again at 
the opposite angle, was draped and manipulated across 
the table and tied into a large, graceful double bow, 
and its billowy daintiness pulled up here, or pinned 
down there, till the effect was good; then each long 
end started across toward the other side of the table, 
and the same maneuvers were gone through with; 
then diagonally the fourth time, and the last bow — 
smaller — was made near the end of the opposite side 
of the table. (Dear me — I wonder if T could do it 
from this description ! ) It is hardly necessary to add 
that ample space was left along the sides and at the 
ends for covers, and that members of the family hap- 
pened to sit where the necessary overlapping of table- 
cloths took place under two of the big bows, and the 
huge Japanese plates filled with fruit which occupied 



DINNERS 55 



the angles opposite them. At the appointed hour, with 
the "set piece" (if Liberty roses can ever be said to 
be set, with their dainty heads poised on their slender 
stems)' came quantities of maidenhair ferns, fragrant 
freeeia sprays, clusters of English violets and a few 
loose roses. Nimble and clever fingers arranged these 
flowers gracefully and irregularly in and around the 
bows of shimmering red, with exquisite and novel 
effect. Neither the florist nor the milliner was unpleas- 
antly in evidence, but the hand of madame herself 
was manifest. Each bow-knot covered the base of a 
candelabrum, whose candles glowed softly through thin 
cut-silver shades lined with the mousseline. 

The dinner was served from the butler^s pantry 
on individual plates — ^thc more formal way, but the 
more convenient for so large a number of guests. 

MENU 

Raw ovsters Sandwiches 

Creamed halil)iit in cucumbers Radishes 

Terrapin a la Chamberlin 

Pickled mangoes 

Fillet of 1)eef Mushroom sauce 

Spinach balls Potato ensemble 

Roman punch 

Squabs on toast Celery Jelly sauce 

Tomato cup salads Welsh sandwiches 

Cream a la Grasse 

Bonbon^ Fruit 

Cheese Black coffee 



56 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

Oysters are excellent bivalves to which to appl)' 
the theory that the natural is always the best; sa 
serve either on their shells on regular oyster plates, or 
on deep plates filled with cracked ice. Put a tiny shell 
containing a teaspoonful of horse-radish in the cepter, 
where the hinge ends meet. Make delicately thin sand- 
wiches of Boston brown bread and spread with a mixture 
of equal parts of finely chopped olives and pimentos 
or green peppers, blended with a little mayonnaise. 
Keep fresh by directions given before. 

Halibut in Cucwmhers — Cook the halibut till 
tender in court bouillon — to two quarts of water add a 
few slices each of carrot, onion and celery; two or three 
cloves and peppercorns; a bit each of mace, "bay leaf 
and parsley, a little salt and lemon juice. Drain, and 
when cool remove skin and bone and pick the fish 
apart into fine flakes. Make a rich white sauce in the 
regular way, adding from a quarter to a half teaspoon 
of curry powder to every two cups of sauce, according 
to taste. Pare, cut in halves and parboil in bouillon 
the required number of cucumbers. Scoop out the in- 
side of each half, fill with the creamed fish, cover with 
prepared crumbs — one-third cup of butter to every cup 
of dried bread crumbs — and bake about half an hour 
or less, till the cucumbers are soft, but not till they 
lose shape. Serve with a lemon point on each plate. 

Baltimore Terrapin — If those who eat this "insect" 
had to prepare him for his final appearance — ^terrapin 
would be more plentiful ! Dip a very much alive "dia- 
mond-back^^ into hot water and scald till the skin can 



DINNERS 57 



be removed from head and feet by rubbing with a cloth; 
and wash — and wash — and wash ! Eeturn to tlie kettle, 
and when the claws are soft it is boiled sufficiently; it 
took nearly an hour, if I remember, to do ours. Cool 
and remove the bottom shell first, then cut off the nails 
and head and take out carefully the gall-sack and sand- 
bag. Contrary to directions, our fastidious taste im- 
pelled us to take out also several other suspicious looking 
bits of internal machinery, leaving the meaty parts, the 
eggs (accounted a great luxury by epicures), the liver 
and all the juice. So much we did the day before the 
feast. Shortly before it is to be eaten place these choice 
morsels in a stewpan to heat. Make a sauce of the 
mash I and creamed yolks of eight hard-boiled eggs and 
two tablespoons of fine butter rubbed to a smooth paste 
and added to a pint of cream, wliich has been heated 
in a double boiler; season with cayenne and salt. To 
this quantity of sauce add one quart of the prepared ter- 
rapin and simmer for ten minutes — longer will do no 
harm. Just at the moment of serving pour in two 
tablespoons of fine Madeira. Serve tliis dish very hot. 
There are small metal cups which come for the purpose, 
but since we were not supplied — not having terrapin 
often — we used ordinary deep plates, heated. 

Living in a small city, we had to send far afield 
for some of our materials. The fillets came from a 
distant base of supplies and one of them was decidedly 
"ripe" — ^but what would you, ye seekers after perfection 
in an imperfect world? Our fillets were larded, and 
baked in a very hot oven in the usual way. Half an 



58 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

hour before they were done they were covered with long 
thin pieces cut from peeled bananas. One piece was 
served on each thick slice of beef, and a ladle of sauce 
added at the side. 

Spinach Balls — Pound to a paste in a mortar the 
yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and rub smooth with the 
yolk of one raw egg ; season with salt, a drop of tabasco 
and a very little melted butter. Mix with one cup of 
cold cooked spinach, drained and pressed as dry as pos- 
sible. Make into small balls, roll in flour and fry in 
a basket a few at a time. Some of these small-famiJy 
recipes had to be quadrupled to make enough to go 
round. 

Potato Ensemble — Mash and season well a quantity 
of boiled white potatoes, and to every quart add the 
beaten yolks of two eggs and two tablespoons of thick 
cream. Stir over the fire and form into a shapely 
ring on a greased tin sheet, or pack in a ring mold that 
opens; brush over with yolk of egg and bake in a slow 
oven — it should not be browned. To take to table, care- 
fully slip the potato ring onto a large round entree 
plate; encircle it with a single row of potato marbles 
rolled in parsley, and heap the center with sweet potato 
croquettes. This dish was passed, and the combination 
of the white and green, yellow and golden brown, was 
very tempting. 

The following proportions were adhered to in 
making the punch, and it was dubbed the "life-saving 
station^^ : put in the saucepan over the fire three-quarters 
of a pound of sugar and three pints of water; boil ten 



DINNERS 59 



minutes and cool. Freeze, and when nearly frozen stir 
into it (Juickly the straini'd juice of four lemons and 
two gills of old Jamaica rum. 

Be sure that the squabs are squabs. Tie into shape 
with thin slices of bacon over the breasts and roast about 
twenty minutes, basting with butter; serve on buttered 
toast, with c(»lory hearts and the simplest form of jelly 
sauce, made by pouring over a tumbler of currant jelly 
at the last moment, three tablespoons of hot port wine. 

Tomato Cups — To one can of tomatoes add one 
teaspoon each of salt and sugar, a dusting of paprika, 
two cloves, a bit of bay leaf and a slice of onion. Boil 
together till the tomato is soft, then add three-quarters 
of a box of gelatine which has been soaked in one-half 
a cup of water. Stir till gelatine is dissolved and strain 
twice or till nearly clear. Pour into ice cold crockery 
cups (flaring, round-bottomed ones are prettiest) to the 
depth of half an inch, and leave till the jolly will barely 
support light-weight inner molds, about half an inch 
smaller, containing a lump of ice. Aluminum ones are 
best, but we managed with tin ones — though we "ought 
to not^' — ^by taking them out as soon as the jelly wa^ 
firmly set. If the first gelatine is allowed to get too 
hard before filling the remaining space between the 
molds, the cups will separate at this line when ttirned 
out. Make the cups a day or so before using and keep 
in a cold place. Unmold when they are wanted by 
filling the inner mold with warm water and lifting out. 
Dip the outer china forms into hot water and turn out 
the tomato cups. Set each one upon crisp lettuce leaves 



6o THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

which have had a bath of French dressing; fill with 
a mixture of two-thirds finely cut celery and one-third 
coarsely-chopped English walnuts and broken hickory 
nut meats. Combine these ingredients with a generous 
quantity of mayonnaise, and finish each salad with a 
cup of mayonnaise cream dressing, put on with a star 
tube, and drop a turned olive into each, if you like. 

The salad sandwiches should be long and narrow; 
make of white bread and fill with tender, selected water- 
cress, which has been dipped in salted tarragon vinegar, 
then shaken dry. 

The snowy cream (invariably Philadelphia, when 
B. P. is at the helm) had a distinctive taste which 
delighted and mystified the somewhat jaded appetite. 
It was simply flavored highly with Fleur d'Orange, this 
comes from Grasse — one does not have to go there for 
it ! Serve from the freezer on small, choice plates and 
scatter a teaspoon of freshly grated cocoanut on top 
of each mound. 

^^An^t please your Honor/' quoth the Peasant, 
"This same dessert is very pleasant." 

The fruit was served by the obliging relatives who 
sat nearest, by the aid of grape scissors and a willing 
spirit, to all who wished it; cheese and wafers solaced 
the others, for to many, "a last course at dinner, wanting 
cheese, is like a pretty woman with only one eye." 

Leaving men and cigars behind, the hostess led the 
ladies to the parlors, where clear black coffee was passed, 
followed by creme de menthe in glasses filled with 



DINNERS 6x 



shaved ice, the gentlemen being served in the dining 
room at the same time. 

AN INDIAN DINNER 
By Jeannette Young 

This is especially appropriate for Thanksgiving. 
Use a bare polished dining table, or, if that is impos- 
sible, use a heavy brown linen cover with deep hem. 
Lay across it two bead-work strips eighteen inches wide, 
such as come for decorative purposes, placing one length- 
wise and one crosswise, and under each plate put a 
doily of canvas and bead work; the candelabra placed 
at the corners are to have red shades and red candles. 

The centerpiece is an Indian pottery jar, filled 
with eagle and peacock feathers. A little bark canoe 
on either side is filled with red apples. Over the table 
is stretched a canopy of bandanna silk, in rich reds and 
tang, held to the ceiling by a wooden war shield and 
at the four corners by spears. 

The electric bulbs should be covered with red silk 
to give the effect of candle and firelight shining over 
all. There might be a gay blanket "tepee" with three 
"Indian braves" in buckskins and blankets, with guitar 
and mandolins to play through dinner weird and dreamy 
music, also a pretty squaw in leggins, brown skirt and 
beaded jacket to give away souvenirs of bead bags, belts 
and chains, Indian baskets, moccasins, tiny bows and 
arrows and little canoes. 

The china should be the old English ivory and blue 



6a THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



ware, but the Chinese gray and white go well with 
this color idea, as well as silver and cut glass. With 
the gay, picturesque coloring of the scene and the guests 
in simple gowns, it is a very effective dinner party. 
The ladies may dress Pilgrim fashion, in simple gray 
cotton crepe gowns with fichus, dainty cuffs, aprons and 
caps of white, and buckled shoes, the men in gray or 
black knee breeches, doublet and hose. 

The dinner cards should be of birch bark. "Novr 
comes the menu, which is of great interest and impor- 
tance also. First we serve oyster cocktails, perfectly 
chilled, then cream of tomato soup with dainty croutons. 
Baked red snapper or salmon with oyster sauce, potato 
croquettes, roast turkey, cranberry sauce, saddle of veni- 
son, scalloped potatoes, roast duck, creamed asparagus, 
celery, olives, currant jelly, salted nuts, frozen punch, 
lobster salad, chicken salad, rye sandwiches, cheese 
straws, Indian suet pudding, brandy sauce, maple ice 
cream, bonbons, coffee. 

A HARVEST DINNER 
By Linda Hull Lamed 

The time was late in September, the occasion a 
county fair, the place a town in one of the far western 
states, and the episode a prize dinner table in one of 
the departments roped off for the exploits of women. 
But no one in the effete east could ever hope to offer 
anything quite so attractive, and this particular corner 
was more besieged by the masculine element than any 



DINNERS 63 



other exhibit on the gi'ounds. Of course, women were 
there in throngs, for in spite of new-fangled notions 
they are ever eager to encourage the efforts and applaud 
the success of those of their own sex who thus honor 
their especial vocation. 

Among several displays of dinner table settings, 
this won tlie prize, because it was not only extremely 
unique and deliciously dainty, but because it was appro- 
priate to the occasion, and exceedingly practical and 
easv of accomplishment bv anvone with one whit of 
artistic ability. In fact, the fame of this particular 
episode has gone far afield, for New York and Boston 
have since endeavored to imitate its simple splendor, 
until now the "farm dinner" has grown to be quite 
the fad. 

The Table Decorations 

It was an oval, damask covered table, quite large 
onough to seat twelve comfortably. People in Septem- 
ber need plenty of elbow room, for they are just in 
from a summer "all out of doors.'' The center decora- 
tion was composed of a promiscuous gathering of the 
.brightest and shiniest of vegetables in season, all massed 
in artistic confusion. These rested on a bed of autumn 
leaves, and were capped by a huge pumpkin made into 
a Janus-faced jack-o'-lantern. The leaves circled them- 
selves into slim small bottomed figure 8's toward the 
end of the table, and these end rings were garnished 
with fruits, while smaller double-faced pumpkin lanterns 
surmounted their middles. There were four large 



04 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

gourd cucumbers hollowed out into boat shape, and 
these were also carved into long-drawn, awe-inspiring 
faces. They were propped up against the pile of veg- 
etables and formed the comer sentinels to this bulwark 
of garden produce. 

Of course the center pumpkin man's body was a 
box, which raised him above his fellows, and yet its 
mission was entirely concealed by masses of kale and 
endive, and both red and green cabbage leaves, which 
formed the background for the following vegetables: 
potatoes, small cabbages and cauliflower, both well 
trjmmed, turnips, i)ar8nips, carrots, crooked neck squash, 
green corn and tomatoes. String beans, yellow egg 
tomatoes, radishes, brussels sprouts, okra buds and nas- 
turtium vines formed the buds and tendrils for this 
autumn banquet. Many of tliese were cut so as to show 
only a suggestion of their character, and they were all 
spick and span clean. The end wreaths held apples, 
grapes, melons, plums, peaches, pears and an occasional 
orange. The apples and pears were cut in two the 
long way, so as to show their seeds and luscious white 
interiors. 

In the middle of the fruit mounds, on the outside 
ends, were two more jack-o'-lanterns, made from 
scooped-out eggplants, and their dark, reddish purple 
faces shone with pleasure at the delightful proximity 
of creamy red and white lady apples and pale green 
hothouse grapes. Nasturtium blossoms were tucked into 
every crevice, and their golden yellow petals glitterefl 
like flecks of hpt sunshine left over from the summer. 



DINNERS 6s 



There were corsage bouquets for the women made of 
deep, rich red dahlias tied with ribbon grass, and for 
the men boutonnieres of small but perfect sunflowers. 
The china, glass and silver were moderate in tone and 
quality, so as not io disturb the harmony of this harvest 
symphony, the glass all fine engraved crystal, and the 
china the old-fashioned plain, gilt-banded white so much 
used in our grandmothers^ day. 

The room in which this festive board was laid was 
in utter darkness, and yet the effect was sufficiently 
luminous, as from each pumpkin man's face shone rays 
from the numerous candles or electric lights within, and 
the cucumber corners and eggplant ends sent forth 
enough more light to render the occasion one of weird 
festivity. 

Of course in these days of practical education, no 
county fair is complete without its food demonstrator, 
therefore this menu bore the hall mark of an expert, 
for it was delicious, and yet withal economical. The 
guests were the "personages'^ who usually descend upon 
every public gathering in order to give the proper tone 
to the occasion. This especial festivity was graced by 
his excellency, the lieutenant-governor, and his wife, 
and just a few ordinary mortals, who were, nevertheless, 
county dignitaries. The entire affair was in charge of 
a committee of the woman's department, which was ably 
marshaled by the aforesaid domestic science specialist, 
and many of the good things they prepared were com- 
posed of the interior of the decorations, while the 
remamder was of things in season, consequently not 



66 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

expensive, thus setting an example of thrift and econ- 
omy not to be despised in these days of high-priced 
provender. 

The Various Dishes 

The appetizing beginning was an "autumn canape^' 
— slices of toast of uniform size spread with a paste of 
mashed cucumber and mayonnaise dressing, profusely 
sprinkled with mince J green peppers and nasturtium 
pods. A seasonable soup was "brussels sprouts con- 
somme.^' Ever3'one knows that brussels sprouts are only 
Lilliputian cabbages, but their delicacy of flavor, com- 
pensates for their diminutiveness. One quart of them 
were simply boiled in salted water, then drained into 
the hot consomme. As this particular county was in 
close proximity to one of our inland seas, "lake trout 
fillets with Michigan sauce" was the next course. This 
trout was skinned, boned and cut into small pieces the 
moment it was caught. It was covered with a marinade 
of olive oil, vinegar, salt and pepper until the time 
arrived for it to be cooked; it was then drained, 
sprinkled with salt and pepper, dredged with corn meal 
and sauted in bacon fat until a golden brown all over. 
It was then served with a spoonful of cold sauce on 
each fillet, the sauce being mayonnaise dressing mixed 
with minced capers, cucumbers and tomatoes, and fresh 
horse-radish grated fine. A dish of fried potato straws 
was then passed, and so were tiny sandwiches of brown 
bre^d wA butter. The piece de resistance which fol- 
lowed wHs "roasted ducks,'' stuffed with mashed potato, 



^--• 



DINNERS - '*7 



minced onion fried in bacon fat, and chopped celery. 

With this was served a souffle of eggplant and squash, 

which was boiled, then mashed and mixed with soft 

bread crumbs, beaten egg, lemon juice, melted butter, 

salt and pepper. This was baked and served in a large 

silver vegetable dish, and with this course was also 

served a' dish of homemade noodles, boiled, drained, 

seasohed with butter, salt and pepper, and covered' with 

a springing of Italian cheese, finely grated. Also, for 

the sak^'of tradition, I suppose, a homely, but excellent 

dish of green corn on the cob. It was deliciously sweet 

and tender and the ordinariness of it was completely 

redeemed by the manner in which it was served. It 

caine in concealed by a peculiar shaped napkin of white 

linen embroidered in yellow maize designs, and every 

kernel was scored before sending it to the table, which 

made it possible to scrape it fr6m the cob with a fork. 

After this, directly from the field close by, were 

"steamed fresh mushrooms." The big ones were bailed 

after being stuffed with the little ones, which had been 

mixed with salt and pepper and butter. They were 

then deluged with cream and each one served on its own 

piece of toast covered with a glass cup. 

Then a much-needed respite was taken, durin;^ 
which the guests cooled their palates with a muskmeloii 
sherbet. The muskmelons were small ones cut into 
halves, each being filled with a lemon ice, colored leaf 
green and garnished with bits of angelica. This cool 
bit of lusciousness stimulated the palate of the guests 
sufficiently to enable them to go on with the {feast/ and 



68 THE GOOD HOUSEKBEPING HOSTESS 

they were quite ready for the medley of vegetables which 
was called a "harvest salad.'^ Upon investigation this 
was found to be composed of small pieces of tomatoes, 
celery, green peppers and sour apples mixed with French 
dressing. This was arranged on plates with lettuce 
leaves. Each one was capped by a tiny mold of cucum- 
ber jelly and garnished around the edge with yellow 
egg tomatoes cut into quarters. With this course were 
hot crackers covered with Young America cheese grated 
and mixed with butter, vinegar, English mustard and 
Wiesbaden sauce. The cucumber jelly was made by 
boiling some more of the cucumber insides with a little 
onion and parsley, then adding half a box of gelatine 
dissolved, a little tarragon vinegar, salt and plenty of 
paprika, to each pint of liquid. The dessert was another 
descent to the everyday rations of Auld Lang S3'ne, 
but everyone, even the most fastidious, ate with gusto 
one little 

Golden Pumpkin Pielette 

These were made after the old New England recipe, 
but baked in individual tins, then removed and served 
on white and yellow plates supported by nothing more 
substantial than a dainLy yellow and white paper doily. 
In all well-regulated families this would have been 
the last course, but as this was an extraordinary func- 
tion the mounds of "peaches and wheat parfait" were 
greeted as enthusiastically as any th^t had gone before. 
These were made of boiled custard mixed with a small 
quantiijj^ of a powdered prepatitibn of wheat, to whicli 



.mKKERS 69 



. I 



was added when cold its bulk in whipped and sweetened 
cream, and a flavoring of peach and almond extract. 
This was poured into ordinary coffee cups upon halves of 
peaches, then packed in ice and salt. When served they 
were sprinkled with powdered sugar and garnished 
with peach leaves. 

This entire menu, with the exception of the piece 
de resistance^ was served from the side by the capable 
assistants of the demonstrator, who were also the "com- 
mittee.^' The "judge^^ was invited to be master of cere- 
monies, and it was evident that he had had much 
experience by the skillful manner in which he manipu- 
lated the ducks. With the tiny cups of French coffee 
came the call for toasts, and the judge again showed 
his knowledge of the fitness of things by immediately 
squelching the facetious giiest who demanded that the 
"demonstrator^' be called upon to give them a "milk 
toast.^' 



ARTISTIC DINNER DECORATIONS 
By Mary Putnam 

For a successful geranium dinner, the hostess 
carried out a scheme of her own. Down the center of 
the table extended a long, narrow box, or succession of 
Jboxes, of stiff cardboard. Geranium cuttings, each bear- 
ing large red blossoms and bedded in wet tissue paper, 
filled the boxes. The sides of this box arrangement 
were banked, so to speak, with fine ferns. This was 



»rd THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

done by building up a sand bank^ on a paper surface, 
against the box, and sticking the ferns in the sand. 
The red of this novel centerpiece was matched in the 
bill of fare with tomato bisque soup and the dash of 
color which maraschino cherries gave to the whipped 
cream surmounting parfait glasses of chocolate ice. The 
ice, the cream and the cherries were a symphony in 
brown, red and white. 

Everybody was in clover at the dinner with this 
designation, for it was an engagement dinner, and in 
the huge round dish on the table were almost clovers 
enough to hide the blooming fiancee in its pink flores- 
cence. Eadiating from the bouquet were pink ribbons, 
each ending in a heart, made for the occasion and 
bearing a highly sentimental motto. The guests tugged 
at the hearts until the ribbon ends were drawn from 
out the bouquet, and attached to one ribbon was found 
a ring. This, of course, betokened the early engage- 
ment of the girl who drew it. Big clover blossoms and 
leaves were pinned on the lamp shades, and the cards 
were decorated with tiny cupids. Strawberry sherbet 
of a decidedly pink hue was served in tall parfait glasses, 
topped with whipped cream and fresh strawberries. 

For the birthday of a dainty college girl, the sweet 
pea was chosen as the flower for table decorations, the 
sweet pea in enchanting profusion. In the center of 
the table was a tall vase of beautiful favrile glass, con- 
taining sweet peas and heaped about with bunches of 
sweet peas in a veritable little mountain, almost three 
feet in ^'iameter. , There were three or four dozens of 



DINNERS - -'■'"■' 71 



the peas in each bunch. From this fairy structure 
trailed ribbons, starting with great, luxuriant bows. 
The guests received dinner favors of stickpins of sweet 
pea design, pink and white. 

The prettiest dinner of all was the buttercup. A 
great bouquet of buttercups shed its glory over the round 
table and the entire room. The big brass dish which 
held it was encircled at a distance of about eight inches 
with a row of smilax, and outside this was a fringe of 
the flat leaves of the jonquil, all of the same size, like 
a conventional pattern. Narrow ferns might take the 
place of the jonquil leaves at a later season. At the 
plates were bunches of jonquils. The candles and the 
lamp shades were yellow. 

A CHINESE DINNER 
By Harriet Quimby 

An invitation recently sent out by a this season's 
debutante provoked the keenest of delight among her 

# ;*■ ^ J*. -^ A 

THE MENU CARD WRITTEN BY A CHINAMAN 

half dozen favored friends, who, after examjjxing the 
dainty wafer color sketch of a Chinese belle in gay attire, 



72 THE OOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

like a gorgeous butterfly poised for a moment on the 
corner of the card, read: "Will the most beautiful 

daughter of the Hon. S accept the solicitation of 

her humble and unimportant friend to join in the 
gathering of the oriental daughters and partake of the 
most ancient and blessed blossom feast to which the 
gods of our fathers have given sanction. On the 
eighteenth hour of the ninth day of the first month/^ 

A Chinese luncheon or dinner suggests more novel 
decorations than almost any other. It can be given at 
a cost of fifty 'cents per plate, or the estimate may easily 
run up to the fifty-dollar mark. The decorations may 
be simple and picturesque ; in fact, the gay colors needed 
to give atmosphere can be purchased for a few cents. 
For a more substantial repast than a flower fieast, chop 
suey or a pineapple chicken may be added to the menu. 

If the invitations are for the afternoon, the curtains 
should be drawn and a few Chinese lanterns — red is the 
most characteristic color — hung here and there in the 
dining room, give a mysterious, subdued effect. Chinese 
incense (sandalwood is the best) can be bought for a 
few cents. A small dish of charcoal is needed. Upon 
this lay, kindling wood fashion, a few squares of the 
sandalwood. After a moment's contact with the coal, 
a slender column of perfumed smoke will curl in ascend- 
ing spirals, filling the air with a pleasing fragrance. 
Punk is also pleasing, but not so dainty as the sandal- 
wood. However, if the latter is used;, a small* orange 
suspended by a wire may be filled, the wooden end^ of 
the incegse thrust in the fruit, as many as the space 



DINNERS 73 



will allow. ' Each lighted, and the glowing ball swinging 
directly oyier the table, lends a quaint oriental effect. 
A girl clever with tissue paper can make a few branches 
of. cherry gr plum blossoms, using real twigs and fasten- 
ing the blpssoms with paste. The hostess may or may 
not be attifed in Chinese costume, but when she prepares 
the blossom dessert, as she may do at table with the 
chafing-dish, she will make a far more fascinating 
picture gowned in the charming frock of Ah Chee 
("golden branches^'). 

If she learns a few ceremonious phrases and 
assumes a flowery speech for the afternoon, the fun will 
be the greater. 

The first course of an oriental dinner is tea served; 
in tiny bowls. To make this perfectly, the boiling water 
must first be turned in the bqwl to warm it, then back 
to the kettle. The tea leaves are then thrown in the 
bowl, the water poured over, and it can be served imme- 
diately. This is sipped from the bowl. Next a preserve 
of some kind is served. If in the city, where the Chinese 
preserved fruits can be bought, then gun got (preserved 
limes), ginger, called town gong, or sir lee (sweet pears) 
may answer. - But if the hostess wishes to preserve the 
Chinese appetizer herself, then she may buy at any fruit 
stand the small Chinese mandarin : Cut the peel down 
in lily form, leaving the bottom whole and the white 
on top exposed. Drop^these into boiling water, cook 
until tender. Have prepared in a porcelain kettle a 
thick syrup of white sugar and water. .Boil until a drop 
in cold water has the consistency of wax. Then drop 



74 THE GOOD HOUSEk&£&PING HOSTESS 

in the oranges, put. on the back of the stove and let 
simmer for half an hour. Take out, let dry in the ovea 
until the surface is glazed. This not only is a very 
artistic preserve, but a delicious one. Chinese nuts are 
very good with this. 

If soup is desired, a chicken mushroom soup is very 
nice and more apt to be relished than birdsnest or shark 
fins. Boil a young chicken until a rich stock is made, 
into this put half a dozen water chestnuts shaved thin 
to give flavor ; a bit of chopped ham, salt, pepper. Cut 
some of the white meat into dice, let all boil together 
twenty minutes. Mushrooms may be added. Just before 
serving, beat two eggs lightly and stir them in. Sprinkle 
with chopped parsley and serve immediately. 

Chop Suey — For six persons. One pound of water 
chestnuts; two pounds of bean sprouts, which can be 
procured at any Chinese vegetable stand. While shop- 
ping, buy a quarterns worth of gee yow, a Chinese sauce 
made only in China, and which enters into nearly all 
oriental meat dishes. It is a brown looking liquid with 
a peculiar flavor and can be purchased of any Chinese 
dealer. The water chestnuts must be shaved thin ; add 
a little sliced celery, one small onion chopped, half a 
dozen mushrooms ; cut young chicken into small pieces. 
Have a kettle with peanut oil (in same quantity as lard 
would be used), into this place the vegetables and 
chicken all together. Let fry until tender, stirring often 
to prevent burning. Just before taking off add the bean 
sprouts, which must not cook too long, as they are better 
w;hen little more than half done. Drain off the liquor, 



DINNERS 75 



add a little flour to thicken; salt to taste. Just at the 
last add a teaspoonful of the brown sauce. Pour all over 
the chop suey, stir together and serve. 

Pineapple Fish — A dish recently introduced in New 
York and much relished by the epicure. Take a fresh 
fish, pike preferred, remove bones, cut in inch squares. 
Make a batter of egg and flour ; dip the squares of fish 
until well covered, and drop in smoking hot peanut oil 
until a dainty brown. Let dry in the oven until vegeta- 
bles are prepared. Chop a little celery, one small green 
onion, about five mushrooms and one small can of pine- 
apple. Drain off the juice ; chop the pineapple into small 
pieces. Then add the pineapple juice, (enough to cover, 
and boil all together. Just before serving, drop in the . 
squares of fish. Carry to table piping hot. 

This is a dainty condiment in which the fish takes 
on a delicious flavor from the pineapple and defies 
analysis as to just what kind of meat it is. 

To prepare squab a la Chinese, boil whole in salted 
water until half done ; take out, dry with napkin ; drop 
into a pot of peanut oil as* for doughnuts and brown 
slowly. The Chinese do not make bread; rice is eaten 
with every course. Sometimes, however, a sort of biscuit 
is served. To make these, mix as for ordinary biscuit. 
Prepare chopped ham, a bit of parsley, chopped onion, 
a few mushrooms ; then take mixture about the size of 
a walnut, wrap the dough around it and steam until 
done. These are very good served with the pike or with 
chicken. 

Pineapple Chicken — Take a raw chicken and cut 



76 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPINQ HOSTESS 

in good sized pieces, fry slowly in peanut oil until done. 
Take canned pineapple cut in dice, let boil for a moment 
and add to the chicken with enough juice to make 
gravy. With the pineapple chicken or with any roast 
or fried meats (the Chinese never boil meat), a brown 
salt is given. Common table salt is put in the oven until 
a rich dark brown. While it is still salt it takes on a 
different flavor, and is always served with a high-class 
Chinese dinner. 

Chrysanthemum Dessert — Take two eggs, beat 
lightly; add wheat flour to make thin batter; no salt 
Take a fresh chrysanthemum^ yellow or white preferred, 
though any color will do ; wash well, then pluck leaves, 
stir in batter. Chop a little of the green leaf also and 
add. Stir well together. Have ready smoking hot 
peanut oil. Take fork, pick up a few leaves out of the 
batter, drop lightly in oil, brown for a moment and 
remove to drain on absorbent paper. These may be 
done in the afternoon. Just before serving, drop again 
in the oil to make the outside crisp; sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and serve. 

A more dainty dish cannot be imagined than this 
chrysanthemum conceit, which looks as dainty as it 
tastes. Rose leaves are prepared in the same way; 
honeysuckle or violets may be used to lend variety to 
color; but none are so delightful to the palate as the 
chrysanthemum. These may be prepared in a short 
time with the chafing-dish, and for an ordinary after- 
noon tea, served with champagne wafers, thoy make a 
most novel refreshment. If deep red roses are used, the 



DINNERS 77 



color is beautiful. The drops of yellow chrysanthemumB 
look like buttercups. 

For a good Chinese candy, home prepared, to be 
the last course, and pretty served in little plum blossom 
favors, take a fresh cocoanut, cut in two-inch strips, boil 
in syrup until tender ; let dry in slow oven and roll in 
powdered sugar. The Chinese lychee nuts can be pur- 
chased anywhere. 

Another candy, very nice and in keeping with an 
oriental dinner, is common potato sliced an eighth of an 
inch thick. Boil in syrup until almost done; sprinkle 
well with ginger; let dry in a slow oven and roll in 
powdered sugar before serving. It is very difiBcult for 
one uninitiated to say what this candy is, yet it is very 
appetizing and exceedingly wholesome. 



FOR A BIRTHDAY 
By B. P. 

An openwork cut silver fern dish, filled with 
exquisite growing ferns (a birthday gift), and the 
possession of a grandmother with silver candlesticks, 
which she is willing to lend, gave the motif for the 
silver and pink decorations of the table to be described. 
Even the bonbons were encased in silver foil and the 
frosting on the cake was imbedded with infinitesimal 
silver candies — dragees, in confectioner's parlance. A 
genial glow was shed over the table by light coming 
through pink candle shades, and this color was accentu* 



78 



THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



ated by bunches of large, long-stemmed roses placed at 
each plate, eight in each rose holder. 

* * * * "Who dreams without their thorns of 
roses?" Verily, she who makes the holders, and they 
who receive the roses in them ! For by this device the 
flowers can be handled witho?/i care ! A flat pattern of 
the holder is given, witli measures and directions for 




folding. Tlie material to be used is' rough, medium- 
weight water-color paper, the edges picked and torn 
unevenly in imitation of handmade paper, and a border 
of liquid silver is applied to both back and front j orna- 
ment further if you wish with silver scroll work, but 
leave the large out-turning flap plain. Lay the flowers 
along the space marked C ; the stems are to go through 
the opening in line A, and be kept in place by a ribbon 



DIKNBRS 79 



(in this case a wide, soft pink one) which passes over 
them, through the slit in the line B, and ties in an 
artistic bow. The large flap is reserved for a quotation, 
printed in silver as prettily as may be. The flnished 
affair is not put at the place of the person *^to whom it 
most concerns/^ but is carefully laid for somebody else. 
When the guests leave the table at the end of the dinner, 
each one gives his bunch of roses to the one for whom 
he thinks the quotation most fitting; there is seldom 
any mistake, if the hits are palpable to the undiscerning, 
as they should be; it is no place for a delicate analysis 
of character. The sentiments naturally vary with the 
occasion and the age of the participants. The personal 
quotation idea at a dinner is generally a success ; but as 
an imperative factor in making it so, the selections 
would better be of a complimentary nature, and never 
be hits upon unpleasant facts which could possibly hurt 
or offend. It is easy to find dozens of short, pithy 
classics in both prose and verse, that are applicable and 
"pat." At a family party I attended last year a great 
deal of fun came from the use of original squibs, 
doggerel and play upon the names, fads and foibles of 
its members, which would, however, have but little 
suggestion for the general reader. Even in the quota- 
tions for the dinner in hand several changes were neces- 
sary for publication — ^but it gives the idea : 

'T\^ell may you always be, 
111 may you never see. 
Here's to your health, 
And the good companie !" 



8o THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

"One of the few, the immortal names, that were 
not born to die V^ 

"The glass of fashion and the mold of form!" 

"Full of wise saws, and modern instances.'* 

"He hatli prosperous art 
When lie will play with reason and discourse. 
And well he can persuade.^ 



yy 



"All the world loves a lover!" 

"x\ laugh is worth a hundred groans in any 
market !" 

"The kindest one, — 
The best conditioned and unwearied spirit 
In doing courtesies.^ 



?> 



"She was the sweet marjoram of the salad, or 
rather, the herb of graue.'^ 

"Of stature tall — I hate a dumpy woman!" 

"You have a nimble wit; I think it wiis made of 
Atalanta's heels.'' 

"Thou art thy mother's glass, and she in thee. 
Calls back the lovely April of her prime." 



DINNERS 8z 



"Her voice was ever soft, 
Gentle and low; an excellent thing in woman.'* 

"Thou pendulum betwixt a smile and tear!" 

It is unnecessary to say that the first one went uner- 
ringly to the host, and the "immortal'' one, without a 
quiver of hesitation, to the man who rejoices in the not 
unusual cognomen of Smith. The dandy of the com- 
pany, to his apparent satisfaction, received the third 
quotation, and the eighth in the list was given, of 
course, to the hostess. Only the kind heart of the 
compiler kept her from substituting for number eleven : 

"Look, she's winding up the watch of her wit — 
bye and bye it will strike !'* 

it was so distinctly characteristic; but you see, it has 
a Httle sting. 

The following menu combined with the table dec- 
orations to make what "he whom we delighted to honor" 
thought was a fortunate and pleasing effect of color: 

Creme de mnrron Pulled bread 

Oyster loaf Celery 

Frogs' legs, fried Stuffed mushrooms 

Orange punch 
Eedhead duck Sweet potatoes with sherry 

Green grape jelly 
String bean salad in ice-block 



8a THB GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

Welsh sandwiches 
ITesselrode pudding Maraschino sauce 

•Angel cake Coffee 

Creme de Matron — Boil and blanch three pints of 
chestnuts. Pound one pint and reserve for the pudding. 
Eeturn the remaining quart to the kettle and stew 
tender in enough water to a little more than cover. 
Press through a fine sieve and add one quart of white 
stock. Heat to the boiling point and season with salt, 
pepper, a few drops of nutmeg, onion and celery 
essence. Lastly add one pint of whipped cream. Color 
green with a few drops of spinach extract. 

Oyster Loaf — I quite envy the woman who serves 
this dish for the first time, if her guests "fall to*' with 
the same gusto ours did. Prepare a fresh loaf of 
baker's bread by cutting out a square from one end and 
tearing out the inside, as whole as possible. When but 
a shell is left, butter it well inside. Wash and drain a 
quantity of fine oysters, according to the size of the loaf, 
and fill it exactly as you would a dish for scalloped 
03'^sters, seasoning in layers with butter, pepper and salt, 
but omitting the crumbs. Eeplace the end of the loaf, 
rub the outside lightly with butter, set in a dripping 
pan and bake for about half an hour — a little longer 
than in a dish. The loaf will swell enough to keep the 
^lid'* in place. Serve on a long platter in a border of 
cress. Probably as you try to cut it, it will crush to a 
savory mass. Make pulled bread of the inside of the 
loaf and dry in the oven. 



DINNERS ';> 83 



Dip the f rogg' legs in milk ; sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, roll in flour and cook to ^ delicate brown in 
deep, smoking hot fat. Serve on a napkin with 

Stuffed Mushrooms — Take off the stalks from 
fresh, large mushrooms, peel the caps with a silver knife 
and drop thorn into cold water to keep them white. If 
they must stand for some time add a little lemon juice 
to the wr.ter; scrape the stalk>4, chop, and put into a 
saucepan with one tablespoonful of butter and a slice 
of onion ; cook slowly for ten minutes, then add a table- 
spoonful of flour and cook five minutes more; add one 
cupful of stock and one-half cupful of bread crumbs; 
season with salt and a dash of cayenne. Fill the mush- 
room cups with this mixture, sprinkle with buttered 
crumbs, place on circles of fried or toasted bread about 
the size of the mushroom, and bake in a moderate oven 
for fifteen minutes. 

Orange Punch — Boil together a quart of water and 
two and one-half cupfuls of sugar for ten minutes ; add 
the juice of six oranges and one lemon ; strain, and when 
cold add the contents of a pint bottle of champagne, 
and a very small quantity of damask-rose color paste, 
and freeze. This quantity, served in punch cups, was 
enough, to put fourteen palates in readiness for 

Duck- — Pick, singe and wipe outside. Salt and 
pepper, the inside after carefully drawing and wiping 
out with a piece of old linen. Do not wash them. Cut 
off the wings at the second joint and truss the duck 
lieatly. Roast in sl very hot oven from fifteen to twenty 
minutes, in a baking pan containing a little water; baste 



84 tHB GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

frequently. Celery or onions, or apples, cored and 
quartered, are. sometimes placed inside the duck to 
improve the flavor. The breasts of our duck were 
removed in the kitchen, whole and hot, and sent to the 
table, one each on hot individual plates, on a small piece 
of fried homin3^ 

When *'canvasback'^ or "redhead^' are on the menu, 
the host sometimes prefers to carve at table ; in that case 
it is customary, after drawing the duck, to cut an open- 
ing at the neck, and through it pull the head and neck, 
letting the head emerge at the back between the drum- 
sticks and tying it securely in place. This method of 
serving says to your guests, "You are eating canvasback, 
at five dollars a pair," and has the additional objection 
of giving cold portions, unless the host is an expert 
carver. 

The day following this dinner we had a salad from 
the meat remaining on the uncarved parts, which I give : 

Duch Salad — Cut the duck in small uniform bits, 
and marinate with a French dressing, substituting 
orange juice for lemon juice or vinegar. Mix with half 
the quantity, each, of orange carpels, freed from seeds 
and skin, and tender bits of celery. Add more dressing 
and garnish with olives and slices of orange, from which 
the skin has not been taken. 

Sweet Potatoes with Sherry (Miss Farmer) — Bake 
a dozen medium-sized potatoes till soft, and cut in 
halves lengthwise. Scoop out the inside, press through 
a potato ricor, season with butter, salt and a dash of 
sherry, moisten with cream and put back in the shells, 



DINNERS - V- 85 



leaving a roughened surface on top. Brown in a 
hot oven. . , 

^An old soldering iron that I have threatened to 
throw away every spring and fall for — I didn't say how 
many years ! — helped ^^nie out in preparing my ice dish. 
I attempted to freeze an ice bowl in a double mold, with 
my small freezer, and failed dismally ; but " ^can do' is 
an easy thing to carry about with you !" so I took a 
square block of ice and melted out with my despised 
soldering iron a shapely hollow, big enough to hold the 
salad, lined the hollow with lettuce leaves and filled it 
with a salad of string beans; then set the block of ice 
on a folded napkin on a large silver tray and garnished 
the ba«e with lettuce and olives, the latter resting in 
pink rose leaves. 

Welsh Sandwiches — Rub together two part^ of soft, 
mild cheese and one part of butter ; flavor with mustard 
and an herb vinegar, and spread between thin slices of 
bread, cut in dainty shapes. 

Nesselrode Pudding — One half -pint of almonds, 
chopped and pounded; one pint of chestnuts (prepared 
as above directed), one half -pint of pineapple, grated; 
one-quarter of a pound of mixed candied fruits, cut into 
dice and soaked in two tablespoons each of sherry and 
maraschino ; one-half pint of cream ; yolks of five eggs ; 
two teeispoons of vanilla ; one-half pint of boiling 
water and one-half pint of sugar. Boil . sugar, water 
and juice from the pineapple for ten minutc^s. Beat 
yolkg ajid a^d, cooking like a custard. Cool and beat 
light. Mix nuts- ia^ijd; candied fruits with the cream, 



86 THB GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

add the flavoring and a bit of salt, fold into the custard 
and freeze in the usual way. Serve with a garnish* of 
whipped cream, sprinkled with candied rose' leaves, 
or with. ^ '. / 

Maraschino Sauce — Beat .'to a cream the yolks of 
two eggs . and two tablespoonf uls of powdered sugar. 
Stir over the fire in a double boiler till the egg is 
slightly thickened; take from the heat and continue to 
beat till the mixture is cold ; it Will be light and creamy. 
Add two tablespoonf uls of maraschino and mix lightly 
with half a pint of cream whipped to a dry, stiff froth. 
Serve on the dish with the pudding. 



A CHERRY BLOSSOM DINNER 
, By Grace Hortense Tower 

Unique beyond anything that had ever before been 
given in the social line in Pasadena, Califoriiia, was a 
cherry blossom dinner given by T. Aoki, a Japanese 
artist, in honor of the cherry blossom festival of Japan. 
For weeks, Aoki and his students, some of them Ameri- 
can girls who study with him, had been busy decorating 
the studio, painting the dinner cards and decorating 
and writing the cards of invitation, seyenty-iive of which 
were dispatched by special messenger three days before 
the affair was to take place. Six thousand artificial 
cherry blossoms had been sent from Japan for the 
embellishment of a largo natural cherry tree which 
occupied the center of the great oval table. Dozens of 



88 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

wild goat skins, upon which were wrought most exquisite 
designs of peonies, iris, cherry blossoms, dragons, storks, 
demons and gods, covered one wall, while above ran a 
double frieze of crimson and green matting made of 
the fiber of the famous Japanese dwarf pine. Clusters' 
of purple wistaria blossoms were painted upon the green, 
while the stately iris embellished the crimson. Upon 
the opposite wall were queer Japanese symbols and ban- 
ners, the massive pillars being inscribed with little love 
stories and Japanese poems to the cherry tree, following 
out the pretty Japanese ciistom of hanging poems upon 
the blossom-laden trees in the glad springtime. 

The windows had been painted to represent a 
garden of flowers, purple iris, rose-tinted cherry blos- 
soms and graceful wistaria clusters rivaling one another 
in beauty. The only hint that one was not in a corner 
of the flowery kingdom Was the large silken American 
flag, whose graceful folds were draped with the flag of 
Japan from the ceiling over the table. 

Scores of odd white lanterns, painted in fleur-de-lis, 
were caught to walls, pillars and screens, while upon 
each picket of the little bamboo fence surrounding the 
^^centerpiece" was a pink lantern. A shower of pink 
petals covered the space beneath the tree, while the 
tablecloth had been painted an hour or two before the 
dinner, with huge pink cherry blossoms. 

The favors for the ladies were miniature jinrikishas, 
the typical Japanese vehicle, while tiny china mandarins 
and gods were given the men. The napkins were of 
cherry blossom pink tissue paper. The delicate pink 



DINNERS 89 



•^mm^m^mym' 



and gold wine cups with an embossed cherry bjo^sppj 
in the bowl were also given the guests as sonv^irs 
after they had drunk the host's health in the pungent 
nee wine served in them. The menu was as follows: 

Consomme peony. 

Lovers' knot potpourri 

Carp fish 

Golden epaulets and compound salads 

Braised chicken Spring mushrooms 

lloyal gems Pounded fish 

Cherry blossom tea 

Excellent palace rice 

Vegetables carved to represent fleur-de-lis and peonies 

Hama Chidore 
Mixed fruits 

Six Japanese men deftly and noiselessly served the 
dinner, the little host explaining each course as it was 
brought in. Suddenly during the course of the meal 
there burst upon the air strange wailing notes, weird, 
yet sweet, and in a monient Nakamura, another Japa- 
nese artist, came in and played to the guests quaint 
Japanese lullabies upon his flute^a straight piece of 
bamboo hollowed out and as smooth as ivory. , 



n 



go THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



THE "COLD COMFORT DINNER 



*» 



By Mary Dawson 

Each course at one of these affairs is served cold 
and the comfort extends equally to hostess, guest and 
maid. The woman who does not keep a maid can enter- 
tain charmingly in this way and without the addition 
of that final course so often seen in maidless entertain- 
ing, of "hot, worn-out hostess/^ Here are a few "cold 
comfort" menus in outline. Using these as a basis the 
busy housekeeper will be able to build up a simple or 
elaborate bill of fare without much planning. 

MENU NO 1 

Fruit frappe served in tumblers 

Deviled eggs Cress sandwiches 

Cold sliced or jellied tongue Potato salad 

Coffee EoUs and butter 

Individual molds of wine jelly containing candied fruit 

Ice cream Cake Bonbons 

MENU NO 2 

Grape fruit 
Cold consomme with toasted crackers 

Pickled fish 

Game in season , Cold sliced ham 

Potato salad Eolls and butter Currant jelly 

Dressed cucumbers, in cucumber ^baskets 

Berries Ice cream 'Busses Coffee 



DINNERS 91 



MENU NO 3 

Claras 

Iced bouillon 

Cold salmon Olive sandwiches 

Cold chicken Stuffed rolls 

Hollowed out tomatoes filled with dressed asparagus tipa 

Hot coffee Frozen pudding Iced tea 

Wine croquettes 

MENU NO 4 

Frapped grapes 

Cold clam bouillon 

Chicken salad OlivcH Eolls and butter 

Coffee 

Stuffed eggs in lettuce nests 

Orange jelly in orange baskets Ice cream 

Cake Bonbons 



AN OMAR KHAYYAM DINNER 
By M. C. D. 

One of the prettiest ideas developed lately in dinner 
decorating, which can be carried out by anyone with 
&ome skill in drawing, is an Omar Khayyam dinner. 
The scheme of such a dinner embraces name cards 
decorated in Persian designs in Persian rug colors, each 
hearing an appropriate quotation from the Rubaiyat, 
^hich abounds with them. The quotations should b(3 



92 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

clone in red on dark brown cards, with the name under- 
neath. In the center of the table a large irregularly cut 
skin in brown or dark red, which can be purchased 
rior a dollar in any of the art shops, should be placed, 
and on this a pot, full of deep red roses. The pot, .(]if 
coursje, refers to the Rubaiyat lines oii the potter, and, 
let it be whispei^ed, the family bean pot will be pictur- 
esque, if no other is available. 

A LITERARY DINNER 
By M. C. D. 

At a dinner given by a literary woman in honor of 
a literary man, the menu and flowers were not unusual, 
but the name cards were. At each place the hostess 
had laid a rejection slip of one of the prominent mag- 
azines or newspapers. These were all mounted on large 
fancy pasteboard cards, so that the symmetry of the 
table was preserved and on the plain margins the name 
of- the guest who was to occupy, the place had been 
written. The guests, most of whom were contributors, 
^aw the joke at once and all laughed over the merry 
conceit. Then the rejection slips were read and a vote 
taken as to which one embroidered its rejection with 
the most skill. A similar idea was put into effect at 
the Bohemian club in San Francisco, where a New York 
editor was entertained by a number of western writers. 
The tablecloth was entirely covered with rejected man- 
uscripts, their pages being scattered loosely over the 
cloth. 



DINNERS 93 



A TOY DINNER 



By Mary Dawson 



A toy dinner for grown-up people is a new and 
fascinating idea for entertaining formally around Christ- 
'mas season. The table centerpiece is a Christmas tree 
from the toy shop, trimmed as if for a child^s party. 
Each guest, as he sits down, finds at his cover a plaything 
in place of a favor. The toys are chosen to fit the host- 
ess' pocketbook. If economy is an object, woolly lambs, 
jacks-in-boxes, dolls, et cetera, are used. If there is no 
particular financial limit, mechanical toys are good fun. 
One ingenious hostess who entertained a Christmas 
dinner last year inserted a clause in her invitations 
asking each man or woman to come bringing the most 
ingenious mechanical toy that could be secured to com- 
pete in a contest. The toys were unwrapped between 
courses at dinner. Afterward, in the drawing room, 
each owner exhibited his toy. A general vote was taken 
up to decide which was the cleverest. Each player voted 
for any except his own by dropping a signed ballot into 
a box held by the hostess. Prizes were awarded for those 
toys for which moBt votes were cast. 



TMB GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



THE GDEaTS AT A PRETTY DINNER POUND AT TItEIR 
RESPECTIVE PLATES LETTERS STANDING, BASEL 
FASHION, SO AS TO SPELL THE NAME OF THE CLUB 
TO WHICH THEY BELONGED. THE LETTERS WEBK 
CDT OUT OF CARDBOARD AND WERE DECORATED IN 
WATEH COLORS, THIS DUTCH MAIDEN BEING 4 
•LIGHT BLUE. 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 

A SPRINGTIME LUNCHEON 
By Anne Warner 

ONE bleak and tearful day in early April this 
simple and dainty board was laid, beguiling a 
few guests into a belief in the existence of the 
April that we long fqr and read about, and which, in 
our climate, is seemingly a sad laggard. Yet the pussy 
willows used in decorating had been gathered a few 
days before when March had "gone out like a lamb.'*' 
The center of the antique table of polished mahog- 
any held, on a square of Armenian drawn work, a low 
iridescent glass vase, yellow and green tones predom- 
inating. The vase was filled with salt, and into this ' 
foundation the willow twigs were crowded and kept 
firmly in place. Upon the pussies a cloud of j^ellow ^ 
butterflies had apparently alighted and were balancing 
airily. One of these *Vinged flowers" poised on the 
edge of each tumbler and served as a place card and 
souvenir. Everyone saw at once, of course, that they 
were paper and in the same instant wondered how they 
could "fly." The trick is a simple and pretty one. Tlie 
coloring and shape are approximately those of the 
clouded sulphur butterfly — the common "puddle butter- 
fly" of our childhood — which sits ovory summer in 
swarms in moist spots and makes the wayside gay With 



98 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

the flash of yellow wings. One poor colias philodice 
was sacrificed to be a guide in markings and shadings. 

Outline the pattern on the thinnest torchon board 
(torchon paper is not heavy enough) and paint in water 
color in broad washes. Use transparent colors, lemon 
yellow for the center of the wings; a pale tint of Vene- 
tian red for the beautiful outer edges of same, and 
Vandyke brown and black for the peculiar markings 
if)ctwe' \ The two "eyes" on the upper wings should 
be black and those on the lower ones a deeper tint of 
pinkish red. A faint wash of pale green and a few 
veinings in the shadows improve the lower wings. The 
body is painted dark as in nature. When dry, cut out 
with sharp scissors, carefully following the outline. 

Get a small quantity of buckshot F ¥ and hie thee 
with it to a machine shop where jobbing is done and 
where an amiable and patient man will follow orders. 
Experiments showed that the best way to flatten the 
shot is in a vise. If a piece of one-sixteenth steel be 
fastened between the jaws of the vise the shot can, one 
by one, be compressed to a uniform thickness and will 
be about three-eighths of an inch in diameter. (I feel 
quite important giving instructions about a vise, inas- 
much as I never even saw one before this experience— 
or, at least, not one spelt with an "s.") 

With a little fish glue fasten one of these weights 
very near the end of the elongated point of each upper 
wing. To make still more secure, and for the sake of 
Hfeiitness, cover the lead with a circle of white tissue 
]^J)€r, usmg in this case one of the white pastes that 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 99 

come in tubes; these dry quickly and do not discolor. 
On placing the head of the insect on the tip of the linger, 
or on any support not too slippery, it will be found to 
balance perfectly if directions have been followed. The 
position gives the butterfly a singularly lifelike appear- 
ance, which is enhanced by a slight swaying and waving 
motion caused by every draft of air. 

Bunches of single sweet-scented yellow jonquils in 
hall and living rooms ntiade spring in the house. Two 
or three of the same blossoms — stemless — floated in 
opalescent fingerbowls on a side table. Gold and white 
china was used so far as practicable, and a few pussy 
twigs ornamented the plates of the first course, which 
was on the table when the guests sat dowiL 

MENU 

Oyster relisli 

Celery Sandwiches 

Whitebait 

Mush souffle White radishes 

Chicken timbales Stuffed eggs Eolls 

Washington salad Imperial sticks 

Pineapple in shell Sweet sandwiches 

Pilled dates Oranges glace 

Cafe au lait 

Blessings truly l)righten as thoy take flight. The 
housekeeper hunts celery now with as keen a zost as if 
hor famiJv had not nibbled it with rolisli all winter; we 
enjoy oysters better than ever when we realize how n^ao: 

5480^8 



xoo THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

is the first "r"-less month. Yet with what avidity do 
we grasp at any new way of offering old standbys. 
Oysters are never better than on the half shell, but the 
arrangement here given has the advantage of novelty. 

Make shallow cups by cutting small shaddocks in 
halves crosswise and removing the pulp; fill with fine 
oysters and a very, few bits of pulp, and lightly cover 
with a white cap of dressing made of three tablespoons 
of grated horse-radish root, one tablespoon of vinegar, 
one-quarter teaspoon of salt and a little paprika — "the 
goddess of good digestion"; add last of all four table- 
spoons of cream whipped stiff. Cups, oysters and dress- 
ing should be thoroughly chilled and the dressing pre- 
pared and put on only at the latest possible moment. 
An excellent way to send the cups to table is to half 
bury them in shaved ice. The cups used at this luncheon 
were prepared three days beforeliand and had been kept 
fresh under water, the pulp having been appropriated 
for a salad at a previous affair. One can save both 
work and material by a little forethought. 

Look over and wash the tinv fish with ffreat care 
and rub dry in an old soft napkin. When everything is 
in readiness, roll in flour a sufficient number to cover 
the bottom of a fine-meshed wire basket and imme- 
diately immerse in smoking hot fat. It takes but a 
moment to cook them. Turn on to a paper and sprinkle 
with salt. Let the fat get up to the right temperature 
while the next "batch^' is being floured. Toss them on a 
sieve to shake off the surplus flour. Serve on a hot 
B^jkin on a hotter plate and garnish with a lemon slice 



162 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

which has had the upper side covered with chopped 
parsley. 

They are delicious when attention is given to small 
details. If you have a cook that you cannot trust to 
do this, a slice of halibut^ cut from the lower part of the 
fisli, makes a good course cooked as follows : Scrape the 
skin and wipe; season with salt and pepper; lay in a 
pan and spread the top with a tablespoon each of butter 
and flour cooked together. Add a few narrow strips of 
salt pork and broil or bake in a hot oven till brown. 
Put diagonally across a hot platter and arrange a mound 
of Parisienne potatoes in one corner and pour a white 
sauce in the other — ^garnish same as whitebait. With 
either the souffle is most appetizing, as it is also with 
chicken. 

Mush Souffle (Mrs Rorer) — Heat one pint of milk; 
stir in three-quarters of a cup of granulated corn meal 
and one teaspoon of salt and cook till well scalded. 
Take from fire and add the yolks of four eggs, one at a 
time, stirring after each addition. Beat whites of the 
eggs with a pinch of salt and fold in. Bake twenty 
minutes in a well-greased baking dish in a quick oven 
and serve at once. Eat witli butter. 

The timbales were poached in individual buttered 
molds decorated with truffles, one tiny can of truffles 
being enough, and were turned out on the center of a 
round platter. Arranged about them in a circle were 
the eggs, and a thin, rich Allemande sauce was poured 
rouBfl the whole. 

Stuffed Eggs — Boil six eggs twenty minutes; 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 103 

■ 

remove shells and cut carefully crosswise. Mash the 
yolks, season with a teaspoon of softened butter, a few 
drops of onion juice and half the quantity of deviled 
ham or tongue. Make into balls and fill the white 
halves. The olives for the course were stuffed with 
capers. 

At this particular luncheon the springlike effect 
was accentuated by the dishes in which the salad 
appeared — excellent majolica imitations of romaine 
leaves — a. single one for each person, some of them 
having an ornament of a very realistic radish. A largo 
dish in this ware, formed of several leaves in a circle 
curving upward, and a mayonnaise cup, simulating a 
pale green lettuce heart, make a pretty set for many, 
salads where .the other table appointments are not too 
elegant. 

Washington Salad — Clean, blanch and prepare 
sweetbreads as usual. Cook in salted, acidulated water 
containing a slice of onion and a bit of bay leaf; cool 
and cut in slices. Add half the quantity of sliced 
cucumbers which have lain in an ice water bath 
an hour or so and then been dried and seasoned with 
onion juice, white pepper and salt. ^lix with a plain 
oil dressing, made without mustard. Arrange on indi- 
vidual plates on watercress. Garnish with cucumber 
as follows: Pare, cut crosswise in thirds or quarters 
according to size, remove the centers and fill with sauce 
tartare. Served on a bleached lettuce leaf, this garnish 
makes a satisfactory little salad by itself. 

To make the sticks simply cut bread intoJ.ong, 



104 T^E GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

slender, uniform fingers, butter lightly and set in a hot 
oven till a delicate brown. Pile on a plate log cabin 
fashion. Fry, sprinkling them with grated cheese some 
time before browning, and cat with bouillon. 

One cannot always find a pineapple — large, ripe 
and unblemished — suitable to serve in this way. The 
golden-meated juicy variety from Florida is far and away 
the best that comes to our market. Lacking the per- 
fection that you seek, some other dessert can be sub- 
stituted — orange cup, for example, with fresh sponge 
cake. But if you do find it, chill, cut off the leafy top, 
to be used as a cover, and set it aside. Dig out the pulp, 
taking great care not to puncture the shell, and dis- 
carding the fibrous and tasteless core. Add the shredded 
pulp of another small specimen to replace the waste. 
Sweeten to taste and keep cold till needed. To serve, 
fill the shell, fit on the top and set on a dainty doily on 
a flat china or glass dish. Three butterflies poised on 
the palmlike top are most effective. The hostess may 
remove the cover and its decorations intact to another 
plate and by means of a small ladle, dip the fragrant, 
luscious fruit on to plates containing each a 

Dessert Sandwich — Cut sponge cake into thin 
oblongs or squares. Put between two pieces a slice of 
vanilla ice cream that has been molded in brick form. 
Ornament the top slice of cake with whipped cream 
(sweetened and flavored slightly with cordial) pressed 
through a pastry tube. 

,,J» give also the recipe for 

Orange Cups — Stir over the fire two cups of gran- 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 105 

ulated sugar and one cup of water till dissolved ; then let 
boil without stirring until the syrup spins a thread. Add 
one pint of orange juice and the juice of one lemon. 
Scald one cup of cream, stir into beaten yolks of two 
eggs, cool and mix with the syrup. When thoroughly 
chilled add another cup of cream whipped, one half a 
teaspoon of vanilla and touch of yellow color paste. 
Freeze and serve in glasses. 

Salted nuts in small dishes were set at each cover. 
The dates were stuffed with oblong bits of preserved 
ginger — an excellent combination. Perhaps a word or 
two may help those who "never have any luck making 
glaces.^^ Don^t attempt them on a damp day. Divide 
oranges carefully into sections, rejecting all carpels 
which have the slightest break in the thin skin ; let those 
that pass muster stand for several hours to dry. Boil 
the sugar to the point just before the caramel stage and 
watch closely as it becomes straw colored. Eemove to 
back of range; drop in the orange sections one at a 
time, take out quickly with two forks, disturbing the 
syrup as little as possible, and place separately on an 
oiled marble slab or paper. The syrup will bear reheat- 
ing once only. Leave a short stem on Malagas and with 
a pair of pincers take each grape by its handle and dip. 
' Work quifckly. Glaces are "peculiar critters" and if the 
day before th^y are needed happens to be fine and dry, 
make them then and keep crisp and fresh under an 
inverted bowl, which should also cover a small piece 
of lime. 

Mix coffee, eggs and water in the usual proportions. 



I 



io6 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

]iavin*r the water cold. Set on tlie range where it will 
heat, hut not hoil, for half an honr; then add hot, rich 
milk, allowing one cup of milk to every quart of cofEee. 
Do not allow to boil. 

A CHICAGO LUNCHEON 

By Linda Hall Lamed 

The table was decorated with a big silver bowl of 
^leteor roses, which, as everyone knows, are a beautiful 
crimson. The menu was of the following courses: 

First, Tokay grapes, ice cold; second, cream soup 
with breadsticks. This soup was of clams and oysters 
chopped fine, and tomato juice and pulp mixed with^a 
thin cream sauce, then strained and served in cups with 
a spoonful of whipped cream in each. Third, creamed 
scallops and mushrooms. There was an addition of 
minced truffles, and it was served in ramekin dishes 
with slices of hard-boiled egg and bits of parsley as a 
garnish. With this course was a plate of entire wheat 
bread sandwiches. Fourth, grape fruit sherbet, a 
creamy orange ice surrounded with a half frozen syrup 
made of grape fruit juice and sugar. Fifth, chicken 
fillets, rice balls, French beans, jam. 

The chicken breasts were parboiled slightly, then 
browned under the fire and served with a rich brown 
sauce, to which the rice balls were added. The rice balls 
w ere very tiny but savory, with cheese and salt and lots 
of paprika. They were fried in deep fat. The beans 
wore the red kidney variety, and as they were canned 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS X07 

they were simply warmed in butter, minced parsley and 
a few drops of lemon juice. The jam was a relish made 
of rhubarb, strawberries, pineapple, raisins and almonds. 

The sixth course was salad macedoine. This was 
lettuce, grape fruit, celery, apples and white grapes 
garnished with cream cheese balls flanked by pecan 
nuts. Over this was a French dressing made with grape 
fniit juice instead of vinegar. With this were served 
some tiny saijdwiches made of gluten crackers, put 
together with butter and bar-le-duc jam. The seventh 
course was rose ice cream and pasties, a French ice 
cream served in champagne glasses, a spoonful in each, 
over which was poured a deep pink sauce made of syrup, 
whipped cream and rum, colored with cochineal. 

Upon each plate was an American Beauty rose, 
which matched the syrup in the glass. Small crescents 
of puff paste w^ere covered wdth a meringue upon which 
were sprinkled blanched and browned almonds minced 
fine, and the pasties were then slightly browned in the 
oven. The accessories were salted pecan nuts, popcorn 
and crimson and white peppermints. Of course the 
finish was strong black coffee in the tiniest of cups and 
a thimbleful of creme de menthe for each aniest. 



FOR INDEPENDENCE DAY 
By L. A. Browne 

The complaint has often been made by very young 
ladies, and frequently by older young ladies, that the 



io8 TH£ GOOD HOUSEKEBl^lNG HOSTESS 

Fourtli of July was a day .much more enjoyed by boys 
and young men tlian by the members of their sex. There 
are ways, however, in which the young lady may both 
enjoy and celebrate the occasion. An Independence day 
l)arty is one of these. 

Once assembled at the home of the hostess, the 
guests u\i\y enjoy themselves by any of the customary 
nietliods adopted by young ladies upon such occasions. 
^J'hey should, however, wear some patriotic emblems, 
such as red, white and blue sashes or ribbons, and a very 
])leasant feature of the occasion would be for eaxjh guest 
to come prepared, by request, to give some information 
regarding the women of Revolutionary times. The 
crowning feature of the event should be the lunch, 
'i'lie room in which this is served should be well deco- 
rated with flags and bunting of the national color?, 
wliile such Itcvolutionary pictures as George and Martha 
Washington, the battle of Bunker Hill, the Boston tea 
party, Washington crossing the Delaware, the signing of 
the Declaration of Independence, the surrender of Corn- 
wall is, etc., should adorn the walls if they are obtainable. 
The table should be draped about the edge with tri- 
colorod bunting and a knot of this or a flag draped about 
each chair. If possible, secure a well-mounted American 
eaiile to ])lace in the center of the tabled with a flag 
(Iraned about tlie base. 

At eacli i)hite place a paper or muslin flag for a 
napkin, and u))on each ])]p,te mount a formidahi^' 
cannon, made bv securim:: two oranues and a banana 
with a long wooden or metal pin. A tiny flag stuck 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS xo^ 

in the lower end of the banana will add to the effect. 
The menu should have at the top a flag, either a real one 
fastened on or one put on with colors. At the bottom 
a drawing of the cracked Liberty bell would be in keep- 
ing with the idea, while at either side attach a genuine 
firecracker. The lunch menu may be either printed or 
written, and should read as follows: 

Patriotic sandwiches 

Ham and tongue, a la Valley Forge 

Star cookies and stripe cake 

Pinwheels Washington pie 

• Giant firecrackers 

Cannon Torpedoes 

Iced tea (without tax) 

Pink lemonade, a la July 4 

The patriotic sandwiches should be small, dainty 
sandwiches tied with red, white and blue ribbons. The 
meats, "a la Valley Forge," would of course be cold. 
Star-shaped frosted cookies and layer cake explains the 
next item. A slice of jelly roll is an excellent imitation 
of a pinwheel. Deep pink strawberry ice cream, made 
in molds with a shred of cocoanut fuse, makes the giant 
firecracker. Put confectionery in small bags or tinfoil 
and over this twist red tissue paper in imitation of tor- 
pedoes. The cannon has already been described. The 
Washington pie and iced tea need no comment. Serve a 
straw with the lemonade and in the straw place a tiny 
flag. The napkins and menu cards will make good sou- 
venirs for the guests. 



no THE GOOD HOUSEKREPING HOSTESS 

A display of fireworks in tliefCvening, superintended 
by sonie male member of the family, together with 
])ntriotic songs, would be a fitting finale for the occasion, 
and it is safe to' assume that such a celebration would 
be tlioroughly enjoyed by the young ladies. 

Ilie older ones would also find this lunch menu 
suitable, or they could give a dinner party and reception 
01- social hop. For the dinner party the menus should 
be decorated like the one already described, and con- 
tnin the following. For the United States soup any 
light stock will do. Into this place a quantity of mac- 
aroni letters "U" and "S.^^ Macaroni now comes 
stamped out in all the letters of the alphabet. Turke'j 
is of course our native bird. The giant firecrackers, 
pinwheels, cannon, torpedoes and lemonade have been 
previously described. The menu: 

United States soup 
Eed sliced tomatoes White iced cuc]imbers 
Blue cabbage cold slaw 
Plymouth Beck cod 

Spanish mackerel (done brown) 

New England trout 
IToast sirloin of American beef 

Iioast lamb (US) mint sauce 

Our native bird 

Washington pickles 

r>oilod and niasliod now ])otatoe8 Xow boots 

(iroon peas Indian corn on the col) 

White bread Amoriean choose Vermont butter 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS zzz 

Indian pudding Washington pie 

Pinwheels Giant firecrackers 

Cannon Torpedoes 

Tea (without tax) California coffee 

Pink lemonade, a la July 4 

A UNIVERSITY LUNCHEON 
By G. W. 

A Yale luncheon given last Christmastide was a 
brilliant success. The ideas may be utilized for the 
entertainment of students from any college, merely 
changing the colors. Harvard's crimson, for example, 
Iowa's old gold, Chicago's maroon, Texas's white and 
orange, or Dartmouth's green. The invitations read : 

Miss Eachel Wynn 

Miss Prances Sutherland 

Mr. Eichard Sutherland 
Yale Luncheon, 1 o'clock, December 27 
Whist from 3 to 6 

415 Ay res Avenue 

The Wynn house is small. There is a cozy reception hall, 
parlor, sitting room and dining room on the first floor. 
All the rooms open into each other with wide arches, 
which fit it capitally for entertaining. Our decision 
was to have no flowers, not even a palm, and keep the 
entire house in harmony of coloring. Fortunately for 
our scheme, every room had a quiet gray or bluish paper, 



112 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



and in cnrpets, furniture and hangijigs there was not a 
tpudi of color t]i.;t would cLifIi with the blue of Yale. 
Our first bit of luck was the loan of a huge buntjle ot 
Yale flags and Inmting from the College Men^s club. 
A flag, with a grc^at white "Yale'' on it, we stretched 
across one end of the sitting room, another, as immense 
as a campaigning banner, draped the west wall of the 
dining room. The stairs were garlanded with dark blue 
bunting, and all over the house fluttered little class 
flags bearing dates that ran from '80 to '04. We allowed 
bundles of mistletoe tucked cunningly under gas fix- 
tures. ITolly was out of the question; it would have 
rooted for Harvard. 

Serving luncheon at 1 was an innovation, but an 
excellent one. When the dishes were cleared away the 
anxi(^ty was over, and the hostess moved about among 
her guests without a thought of a meal to be served at 
the end of the game. We set ten small tables, three 
in the dining room, four in the sitting room, two in the 
parlor and one in the hall. The tables were snowily 
linoned, there w^ere doilies in blue and white, and the 
centerpiece on each table was a glass dish flUed with 
small bunches of splendid blue and white grapes. There 
Avas nothins: blue to be found in the fruit or flower 
kingdom except these, and the coloring was superb. All 
the dislios we used were handsome old-fashioned willow 
ware or solid dark blue. 

Blue seems one of the impossible colors to achieve 
in cooking or garnishing. Where it could not be obtained 
we used white. Here is the menu served : 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 2x3 

Cream of corn soup 

Olives Toasted wafers 

Smelts in potato straw nests 

Chicken a la Stanley Sweet potato croquettes 

Finger rolls 

Grape fruit and celery salad 

Cheese straws Salted almonds 

Yale ice cream 

Individual angels with Yale icing 

Cafe noir 

This luncheon was prepared entirely by the young 
hostess, her humble right-hand woman, and a colored 
girl in the kitchen. During the serving of the meal wj 
had the aid of a cooking school graduate, who took 
general oversight of everything for one dollar an hour. 
Two young girls were hired to assist in waiting on tho 
tables for twenty-five cents an hour. Afterward they 
stayed and helped Tenna wash dishes. Service cost 
exactly three dollars, and it was as perfect as a caterer 
would have charged five dollars for. 

The weather was chill enough to allow of much 
of the luncheon being prepared the day before. Tho 
vegetable portion of the soup was made and set away to 
be combined skillfully at the last moment by the young 
woman of cooking school knowledge. The almonds were 
salted, the sweet potato croquettes made, egged and 
(^riimbed, the potatoes pared and left in cold water, the 
clioofie straws and little angels made and the finger rol Is 
ordered, for at.bnkeshop prices it is not worth while 



XZ4 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPIKQ HOSTESS 

troubling with rolls at home. Following are two of the 
recipes in our menu. Remember of course that each 
dish provided for forty people. 

Yale Ice Cream — A coloring for the ice cream 
threw the entire household into despair. So far as we 
could find, there is no blue coloring paste on the 
market. There is one which produces an adorable 
violet, only violet is not Yale blue. At last we discovered 
that a few tablespoons of juice from canned blueberries 
produced exactly the Yale shade of blue, and added 
quite a pleasant flavor, which could be accentuated by a 
dash of lemon extract. We used two freezers, in one 
making vanilla cream, in the other the Yale mixture. 
The recipe we used called for two quarts of thin cream, 
in which was dissolved one and a half cups of sugar. 
Three tablespoons of vanilla were added to the two 
quarts of white cream and two tablespoons of lemon for 
the blue cream. Add the blueberry juice till the cream 
is quite a dark blue, much bluer than the tint you desire, 
as all coloj-ings freeze out considerably lighter. The 
four quarts of cream were packed into brick molds, a 
layer of blue and another of white, which cut beautifully. 

Individual Angels with Yale Icing — A fine frothy 
mixture of angel cake was baked in small gem pans, and 
when cool iced with a plain frosting colored by the 
blueberry juice, and slightly flavored with lemon. A 
tiny pennant of blue silk with a white Y painted on it 
was fastened on a slender wire, and stuck in the center 
of each cake. 

While the deft waiters cleared the tables to prepare 



LUHCHECNS AMD TfiAS xz5 

for cards, the company spent fifteen, minutes in merry 
chat, interspersed with snatches of Yale songs. Tlie 
cards used for playing were blue and white, the see: 3 
cards bore pretty bits of decoration : the inevitable Yale 
flag, a football man in a blue sweater, a college crew 
pulling hard, or a sketchy reminiscence of Yale^s famous 
fence. The lettering was in blue and the tiny pencils 
attached to each card were of the same color. During 
the afternoon punch was served from a splendid Delit 
bowl, and the guests drank from rich blue sherbet cups. 

The prizes were exactly of the sort that Yale men 
and Yale men's girls appreciate, stunning Yale pillows, 
and a handsome desk pad with a spirited decoration in 
water color of a football field, where of course the bin 03 
M^ere winning. There were blue steins, Yale pins and a 
blue-bound book designed for holding snapshots of 
college life. Remembered even to-day are the booby 
prizes, two Yale brownie jumping jacks, three feet in 
length, who flung themselves into the most astonishing 
attitudes when a string was pulled. 

The confidential part of the story is that twenty 
dollars covered the cost of the entire entertainment. 



IN MEXICAN STYLE 
By O. A. M. 

Tn the following menu all the dishes are such as are 
cooked in tlie well-to-do families of Mexico and tho 
households of the Spanish Californians, but several of 



zz6 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

them are almost imknown to the American epicure who 
has never crossed the Kio Grande. 

The flowers should be in keeping with the menu. 
A great bowl of yucca blossoms, or a cactus plant in full 
bloom, would make a pleasing centerpiece; but the 
flower of all others to choose is the poinsettia, or as the 
Mexicans call it so prettily, Luz de Navidad (the Christ- 
mas light), a native of their wild canyons, and the 
subject of many of their quaint legends. 

For place cards nothing would be more appropriate 
than little sombreros made of gray drawing paper. To 
make these cut out rounds of paper two and one-half 
inches in diameter, then make a little cornucopia two 
inches long for the crown of the hat ; notch slightly the 
mouth of the cornucopia, bend the notches inward and 
gum them to the round, so that the cornucopia will 
stand upright in the center of the round. The som- 
brero is then complete, needing only a hat band of baby 
ribbon (red). On the upper side of the brim write, in 
gilt ink, the guesf s name, and on the under side of the 
brim write the menu. 

MENU 

Sopa de frijolos Tortillas 

Pescades fritos Mexicano caliente Olives 

Polio asada Enchillados Alcachofada 

Chili reinas Arroz con tomate 

Ensalada de aligador pera 

Atole de pina Ojalda 

Cafe Sucre de leche Fruto 



LUNCHK0N8 AND TEAS X17 

SoiKi tie frijoles is a puree of the dried red beans. 
Soak the beans over night, boil till tender in plenty of 
water, press through a sieve. I find a potato rieer an 
excellent press for the purpose. Return the? beans to 
the fire with enough of the water they were boiled in to 
make the amount of soup required, season with cayenne 
and salt, and thicken slightly with blended flour ; strain, 
and jerve with a slice of lemon in each plate. Tortillas 
are the bread of Mexico, and are served not only witli 
the soup, but with every course, excepting the dessert. 
The Mexican cook grinds her corn with a metate fresh 
every day, but the American will find the fine white corn 
meal of the mills will do very well. Mix the meal with 
a little salt and enough boiling water to make a stiif 
dough, pinch oif a lump the size of an English walnut 
and pat it between the palms till it becomes a round 
cake as thin as a wafer and about six inches in diameter. 
Bake on a griddle, turning it over to bake on both sides. 
These should be served hot, and may be made the day 
before using, and heated over when time to serve. 

For pescades fritos, any dainty variety of fish is 
boiled in oil, the oil being very hot before putting in tlie 
fish. For Mexicano caliente, toast in tlie wood ashes 
some green peppers and a few red ones (chilis are the 
peppers used), peel the skins from them; treat an equal 
quantity of tomatoes in like manner, mince all finely 
together with a little onion, e^alt, and vinegar enough 
to moisten ; lot stand a few days l)ofore using. This is a 
uico sauce to use witli any dishes with wliich catsup 
would be suitable. 



zz8 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

Polio asada is roasted chicken, as the ]\fexicans 
roast with a spit before the fire. Broiling would be 
nearer their method than roasting in the oven. 

Enchillados are a dish for an epicure. The Mexi- 
cans take equal quantities of chilis, tomatoes and onions, 
but the American will prefer to use only half as much 
onion, and possibly still less of the chilis, for out 
northern throats would blister if treated to the fiery 
seasoning. These should be roasted in the ashes, then 
peeled, the seeds taken from the peppers, and the whole, 
excepting the pepper seeds, ground to a pulp. To this 
add an equal quantity of finely chopped fresh lean pork, 
and salt to taste. A tortilla is folded around a spoonful 
of the mixture. When all the mixture is wrapped in 
tortillas the little bundles are boiled in tomatoes, a little 
finely chopped raw onion is dusted on top of each, and 
it is ready for serving. 

For alcacliofada, trim artichoke buds, taking out 
the chokes, boil till tender in salted water, make a 
s::uce of one cup milk, butter the size of a walnut, or 
olive oil two tablespoonfuls, one tablespoonful blended 
flour, and last the beaten yolks of two eggs. Serve a 
spoonful of sauce with each bud. 

Arroz con tomate is a dish without which no Mexi- 
can meal is complete. It is rice boiled in tomatoes, 
after being well plumped in cold water, and seasoned 
with salt and pepper. 

For chili reinas, use the large green sweet peppers, 
roast them in the ashes till they can be easily peeled, 
then peel, split open on one side, take out the seeds, and 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS - 119 

stuff the peppers with grated cheese. For six peppers 
take two eggs, beat very light, add one teaspoonful of 
flour, dip the peppers in this batter, then £17. When 
browned on one side, turn. Serve very hot. Pour over 
them a tomato sauce if wished. 

Ensalada de Aligador Pera — Peel alligator pears, 
cut in thin rings, taking out the stone, serve on lettuce 
with mayonnaise. 

Atole de Pina — Thicken five pints of boiling water 
with cornstarch until the consistency of boiled custard, 
add one small pineapple, grated ; also one pound sugar, 
a small stick of cinnamon, and when this has boiled a 
moment, three very well beaten eggs which have been 
mixed with a little of the sugar. Stir a moment, then, 
before the eggs have time to curdle, take from fire, turn 
into individual custard cups, and serve cold. 

Ojalda — Into two cupfuls of flour drop the yolk of 
one egg, unbeaten, and a heaping tablespoonful of lard. 
Wet with salted water till a stiff paste' is formed, knead 
well, lifting and throwing it upon the board every 
moment till it is a light, smooth dough, full of blisters. 
Roll very thin and cut in rounds. Fry a light brown in 
hot deep lard, and sift powdered sugar over them as 
soon as finished. They are crisp and melt in the mouth 
when well made. 

Sticre de Leche — Boil, three cups granulated sugar 
with one cup sweet milk, stir to prevent burning; as 
soon as it will strin^r from the spoon take from fire, add 
a little vanilla and pour into buttered pans; cut in 
cubes. 



Xdo THfi GOOD HOUSEKEBPINQ HOSTESS 



A CIRCUS LUNCHEON 
By Alice Chittenden 

The decorations at this unique luncheon carried 
out as far as possible the idea of a circus. Streamers of 
white cambric, alternated with wide red ribbons, were 
festooned from the center of the ceiling in tentlike 
fashion, thus apparently converting the whole room into 
a huge circus tent. From the center of this were sus- 
pended two paper hoops with dolls dressed like trapeze 
performers, which were wired to the ceiling as if just 
about to jump through them. The mural decorations 
consisted of masks, horns and whips tied with red rib- 
bons. There were ten tables, each of which represented 
a sideshow at a circus. Some tables were oblong, others 
round, but the guests were seated on one side only and 
facing the center. - 

The floral decorations consisted of poinsettias. To 
each of the chairs was wired one of these showy blossoms 
with its beautiful dark green foliage. They were also 
interspersed among the other decorations on the tables, 
the snowy cloth making an effective background. 

The first table, which was oblong, held a circus 
procession of animals winding in long spiral ovals its 
vrhole length. Only the ingenious young decorators 
know how many Noah's arks of goodly size (for these 
were no Lilliputian toys) must have been devastated tx) 
furnish the four-footed creatures, to say nothing of 
the army of dolls required as performei's. The chariots 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS tax 

were cut from pasteboard and were entwined with 
flowers. 

The second table, a small round one, represented 
a cannibal island in the Pacific, consisting of a circle of 
sand and black dolls in gaudy, but scanty, costume. On 
the third table the chariot races were represented with 
flower-trimmed chariots and pretty doll drivers who 
handled the bright ribbons with wonderful skill. The 
fourth was a small round table, in the center of which 
a boy doll held the popcorn and peanut concession. On 
the fifth, trained dogs several inches in hight but of 
fascinating exterior, were performing on ladders and 
beating drums under the guidance of a perfectly 
appointed ringmaster. 

Indian snake charmers performed with realistic 
paper snakes on the sixth. The seventh held a merry- 
go-round, while at the eighth dainty maidens danced 
about a maypole. At the ninth, the hoop performance 
of the ceiling was repeated on a smaller scale, while at 
the tenth a company of rough riders held sway. 

Just before the end of the dinner the beautiful little 
daughter of the hostess passed around confetti among 
the guests, showering it upon the guest of honor. Each 
guest carried away one of the toys as a souvenir, which 
still left a goodly number behind. 

There are suggestions in this dinner which may 
enable housekeepers to devise attractive feasts on a 
smaller scale. 

iV 



122 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



A CORN LUNCHEON 



By Eleanor M. Lucas 



The table was covered with white damask, and for a 
centerpiece ears of com formed an elongated enclosure. 
Perfect ears had been selected and the pale green husks 
had been drawn back and made to lie flat like the sepals 
of a flower, and from them rose the pearly ears of corn, 
standing upright, partly veiled in filmy corn silk. 
Arranged within and overrunning this enclosure were 
bright blue cornflowers and asparagus ferns. Both are 
so enduring that no water was required, so the greens 
niul flowers were arranged in a loose mass, the greens 
ti'ailing down the table toward either end, and, wherever 
tliey encountered a candlestick, wreathing themselves 
about it. The candlesticks stood in a row down the 
center of the table, two on each end, and were made from 
the long round boxes in which electric light mantles 
come, covorod with corn husks ; a drop of glue in the top 
of these made the blue candles secure. Little canoes, 
made of cardboard covered with corn husks, held the 
salted almonds and salted popped corn. 

At eacli place was a wonderful corn-husk doll, bear- 
in.s: an armful of cornflowers, tied with pale creamy 
ribbons. On one end of tlie ribbon bow was written 
the guest^s name and on the other the date. The 
menu was: 

Cream of corn soup ^ 
Mock oysters Sliced cucuiiiljcrs 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 123 , 

Lamb chops Corn timbales 

Mousseline sauce 

Hot corn meal gems 

Green pea and lettuce mayonnaise in corn-husk baskets 

Cream cheese and olive sandwiches 

Apricot sherbet in green jelly cups 

Sponge cakes Corn crisps 

Coffee 

A few of the dishes are given in detail : 

Mock Oysters — To a cup of grated corn pulp, add a 
teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of paprika and three well 
beaten eggs. Fry in butter, in small spoonfuls, dish on 
a napkin covered plate, garnish with parsley and lemon 
and serve with cucumbers. 

Broil the chops and garnish with cress. 

Corn Timbales — To one cup of grated com pulp 
add one cup of milk, a teaspoon each of chopped parsley 
and onion juice, one soda cracker rolled fine and a 
teaspoon of salt. Beat two eggs until light, add to the 
other ingredients. Pour into buttered timbale molds, 
cook in a slow oven, the molds standing in a pan of hot 
water, until the centers are firm. Invert on a pretty 
dish, garnish with parsley and pour over each timbale 
a spoonful of sauce. 

Mousseline Sauce — Beat a tablespoon of butter to 
a cream ; add the yolks of three eggs, one at a time, then 
add three tablespoons of lemon juice, half a teaspoon 
of salt and a dash of cayenne. Cook over hot water until 
the sauce thickens, then add another tablespoon of 






124 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



butter and lialf a cup of sweet cream. When the sauee 
is hot, serve. It should be quite thick and frothy. 

Hot Corn Meal Gems — Cream a tablespoon of 
butter and a tablespoon of sugar, add the yolks of two 
eggs and mix well. Place in the flour sifter one and a 
half cups each of white flour and corn meal, a teaspoon 
of salt and two teaspoons of baking powder. Add this 
gradually to the egg mixture with a cup and a half of 
sweet milk. Fold in lightly the stiffly-beaten whites of 
the eggs and i)our into gem pans. Bake thirty minutes 
in a hot oven. This amount will make twenty-four 
small gems. 

The timbales can be cooked some time in advance 
r.nd reheated by standing in hot water, as the oven will 
be required for the gems. 

Mayonnaise of Peas — ^Mix two cups of cooked 
chilled green peas with half a cup of thick mayonnaise. 
'Make little square or oblong baskets of cardboard, cover 
with corn husks, a strip of cardboard covered with the 
liusk serving as a handle. Fasten a few blue corn- 
flowers to one side and to the handle. Line with waxed 
paper, then with pale green lettuce leaves, allowing the 
leaves to come up above the sides. Fill with mayonn^^ise 
of peas, placing a spoonful of mayonnaise on top. This 
forms a pretty color effect. 

Cheese and Olive Sandwiches — Beat the cream 
cheese until soft : to one small roll add six stoned olivos 
chopped fine and a dash of cayenne. Spread on thin 
Flices of buttered white bread and press together. Cut 
in small pieces and pile on a pretty lace 'paper doily. 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 125 

Apricot Sherbet in Jelly Cups — Mix one pint of 
apricot pulp, the juice of two oranges and one lemdii, 
the grated rind of the lemon and one pint of syrup 
(made by cooking for ten minutes two cups of sugar and 
one cup of water). Freeze in the usual way. 

For the jelly cups, make a lemon jelly by softening 
one ounce of gelatine in one-third of a cup of cold water, 
add a pint of boiling water, stir until dissolved. Add 
a cup of sugar, and when cool the grated rind of a lemon, 
and the juice of four. Stir in enough spinach green to 
give a pretty green tint. Mold in little border molds or 
patent charlotte russe molds. When firm turn out and 
fill the hollow centers with the sherbet, which may be 
topped with a spoonful of whipped cream or sprinkled 
with a teaspoon of candied mint leaves. 

Corn Crisps — Pop some corn and place in a large 
kettle. Boil one cup of molasses, one cup of sugar and 
half a cup of vinegar until it crisps when dropped into 
cold water. Pour this over two quarts of corn, meas- 
ured after popping. Stir well with a long-handled 
spoon. When mixed pour into a shallow baking pan 
that has been lined with waxed paper. Press it down 
firmly, lay a piece of waxed paper on top and over this 
a board, smaller than the top of pan, so it will fit upon 
the mixture. On this place two or three flatirons. The 
next day remove the weight, board and paper, turn onto 
a clean board, remove paper from bottom and with a 
very sharp knife cut into slices. Lay these to dry, then 
wrap in wax^d paper, or pile as they are on a pretty 
green .plate,,^. 



126 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



EVE'S LUNCHEON 
By Mary Dawson 

Twenty-five Philadelphia girls were completely 
mystified by invitations bidding them to a "luncheon 
a FEve." It proved to be one of the most unique 
affairs of the season, everything being served as Eve 
would have offered it in Eden, that is without knife, 
fork or spoon. An entire menu which could be daintily 
conveyed to the mouth with the hands would have 
sounded like an utter impossibility until our hostess 
showed us the way to do it. Afterward, like Columbus' 
eggy it was the simplest thing in the world. Oysters 
were out of season, and out of the question, too, but 
fruit was seasonable and dainty to handle, accordingly 
the first course was fruit. Each plate contained a small 
bunch of grapes, a couple of ripe plums, portions of 
l)ananas having the skin curled down to protect the 
fingers, and various other tidbits that were certain not 
to prove too juicy. The soup, too, was easy when one 
knew how. It came to table in small china cups with 
handles. The toast squares that accompanied this 
course were chosen because less likely to crumble than 
broad. 

One of the courses was meat patties in little fluted 
cases of pastry. These were so tiny and so crisp thnt 
they could bo oaten without forks. The lamb chops 
that followed wore ^ also vorv small. Thev were fitted 
out with white curled papers at the bone ei^d so tJiat not 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS zay 

a finger was soiled in handling them. Saratoga chips, 
lettuce, cress and corn on the cob were the green 
things of the feast. We curled the white lettuce leaves 
into little bunches, as the French epicures do, and 
dipped them into a creamy mayonnaise. The butter 
problem was disposed of by bread and butter sandwiches 
cut very thin and rolled, and by hot wheat mufBns split 
and buttered before being brought to the table. Foi 
dessert we had a frappe served in cups with handles, 
wee tartlets filled with compote of fresh fruit, cakes, 
candies, coifee, salted nuts and other good things. 



A CHINESE LUNCHEON 

Which Can Be Followed or Adapted by College Girls and Other Girls 

Chrysanthemums, cherry blossoms, chopsticks, chow 
ming, chop suey and everything Chinese was the order 
at a charming luncheon given by a young woman. She 
did not plan the table nor prepare the luncheon herself ; 
she engaged the chef of a Chinese restaurant and his 
corps of waiters to carry out the affair, while she herself, 
having sojourned in China and owning a fine collection 
of Chinese curiosities, overlooked the picturesque pari 
of the entertainment and made use of every possibility. 
The hostess waited to receive in a Chinese coat of tawn}^ 
silk with splendid embroideries. The dining room was 
a complete transformation scene. From Chinese lan- 
terns was sked a subdued light. The room was hung 
with a frieze of painted silk decorated with Chinese 



128 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



landscapes where delicate-footed Chinese ladies were 
seen picking their way through a world which seemed ; 
all moonshine. There were showers of chrysanthemums 
over yards and yards of the strange moonshiny silk on 
which a Chinese artist loves to trail his dreamy fancies. 
Jn odd contrast to the moonshine were the red and 
yellow Chinese flags and splendid splashes of oriental 
coloring. It glowed in massive urns and vases, in richly 
decorated jars and magnificent screens. The mantel 
was drai)ed with Chinese silk and yards of rich embroid- 
eries trailed over the chair backs. 

The table as set for a Chinese luncheon was perhaps 
llic most interesting thing in the room. It was shad- 
owed by an enormous Japanese umbrella, around which 
hung lanterns. The table was a bare mahogany, but 
drifted everywhere among the dishes were tiny white 
Chinese lilies, not unlike orchids and as fragrant as 
freesias. There was no grouping of dishes such as 
American taste demands. The small plates of sweet- 
meats and nuts, which take the place of our olives and 
relishes, were arranged together in geometrical forms, 
in open squares and stiff triangles. Each plate held a 
certain number of sweetmeats, pomegranates or nuts, 
three, five, seven or nine, set al^^o in geometrical prim- 
ness. At each cover was one pair of chopsticks, a droll 
china ladle, two teacups, a tiny dish of soy and a napkin, 
which was changed at each of the eleven courses. It 
was not easy at first to eat soup from a ladle or meat 
from a pair of chopsticks, but before the end of the 
luncheon each guest was an expert in the art and would 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS xag 

not have quailed at the prospect of appearing at a Chi- 
nese legation luncheon. 

The first thing served was gue sine tea, in bits of 
tiny, dragon-decorated china with handles like our 
bouillon cups. After the tea came Chinese preserves, 
candied fruits and sweetmeats, although of indescribable 
flavor. Cam ghet, ton gung, bor low and lichee nuts 
were the relishes of most intelligible name. Bor low 
gay, famous bird^s nest soup, followed the sweetmeats. 
It was served with a delicate garnishing of shredded 
chicken and eaten from china ladles. Again came 
chicken, fried and boneless, with fresh mushrooms and 
water nuts as an accompaniment. The piece de resist- 
ance of the feast was roasted duck, buried in a snowy 
mound of chrysanthemum petals. Chop suey was the 
next course; then came yocklumine, a delicious combi- 
nation of fish, tender bamboo sprouts, shredded ham, 
mushrooms and water nuts. One triumphant dish, on 
which a Chinese cook prides himself as sure to please 
the "Melican,'* is lobster omelet, and on this occasion 
the chef was besieged for the recipe. A Chinese chef, 
however, rarely condescends to bestow such a favor; he 
looks delightfully blank, forgets his English utterly and 
J'miles a benign oriental smile. Eice cooked Chinese 
fashion is scarcely recogjiizable as the same thing we 
often find in a moist mush on our tables. At such a 
feast as the one described, rice never appears ; it would 
be scorned as too plebeian; but by the entreaty of the 
hostess, it followed the omelet. Then came chow ming, 
a fried noodle with meat, which was the last substantial 



I30 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

course. The dessert was China cakes, delicious though 
of strange seasoning, and Chinese toasted almonds. 

The ladies adjourned with the clearing away of 
dessert to a tea bench in a corner of the dining room, 
a table surrounded by a bench at which the la«t tea 
drinking of a meal is always held in a Chinese home. 
Around the bare board the ladies drank soung soe tea. 

All the circumstance and form attendant on a meal 
eaten chopstick fashion was carried out during the 
luncheon. The hostess in the apparel of a Chinese lady 
acted as a real Chinese dame would have done in her 
place. With the appearance of a new course on the 
table, she praised each dish in the most extravagant 
fashion. The guests agreed, with a lavishiness of flat- 
tery truly oriental. The meal was eaten with thin blue 
clouds of delicate incense wreathing themselveS about 
the room. It was burned, as it always is at a Chinese 
feast, in a splendid brass bowl. There were no individual 
finger bowls. When the party rose from the table they 
followed their hostess to a great china bowl on a teak- 
wood table set against a magnificent screen. It held 
perfumed water, into which each lady dipped her fingers. 

The following out of such a luncheon as this by a 
hostess who could not engage a Chinese chef and a corps 
of silk gowned waiters, is not an impossibility. It would 
require something of originality, a faculty for adapting 
ideas, not a little research of Chinese customs and dishes, 
and a tactful choice of one's guests, for half the success 
of an affair of this sort would depend on the bright, 
intelligent women invited to pafJicTpate. 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS Z3X 



EASTER LUNCHEONS 

A pleasing feature of all Eastertide entertainments 
is the profuse use of flowers and decorations of green, 
which suggest the spring. Of the almost innumerable 
functions which can be given, the three following are 
suggested : 

The breakfast is the simplest form, and differs 
from the luncheon only in that the hour is earlier, usually 
12 o^clock; and the menu is less elaborate. Both the 
breakfast and luncheon are well adapted to a dozen or 
fewer guests. A basket filled with primroses of the 
various delicate colors tied with a ribbon of pale green 
makes a beautiful and springlike centerpiece. The 
menu should contain as many fresh fruits and vegetables 
as possible, and the whole affair should be as expressive 
of the spring as it can be made. 

BREAKFAST MENU 

Grape fruit and Malaga grapes 

Puree of spinach 

Bread sticks 

Lobster cutlets 

Cucumber jelly Bolls 

Sweetbread fillets, maitre d'hotel sauce 

Potato roses Asparagus tips 

Tomato aspic and celery salad 

-Sandwiches Camembert cheef«e Olives' 

ToHHted water ])iscuit 
Coffee Salted nuts Candies 



Z32 THE GOOD HOU8BKEBPINQ HOSTESS 



The combination of grape fruit and Malaga grapes 
is delicious. The grape fruit is cut in half and prepared 
as usual, only that the grapes, skinned and seeded, are 
mixed with it. A brandied cherry is placed on top. 
These are prettier served on maidenhair ferns than 
on doilies. 

The puree of spinach is a delicate green, served 
with a little whipped cream on top, but not enough 
entirely to cover it. The lobster cutlets may be gar- 
nished with parsley, and the cucumber jelly made a 
little greener with leaf green. The cucumber jelly is 
served in individual forms with a few pieces of the 
cucumber in the top. The asparagus tips are served 
with drawn butter sauce and the potato roses are made 
with a pastry bag. The tomato aspic is made in a ring 
mold and the center is filled with celery salad mayon- 
naise. This makes a pretty bit of color, as well as. being 
crisp and refreshing. Lettuce sandwiches are a good 
combination with this salad. The omission of a sweet 
simplifies the breakfast. The Camembert cheese served 
with hot toasted water biscuit is followed by the demi- 
tasse of coffee. 

The same number of people may be more elabo- 
rately entertained at a luncheon. Too many flowers 
cannot be used to make the occasion attractive, but the 
simplest table decorations are always the prettiest. A 
low centerpiece is the best form. Baskets, tied with 
large bows of ribbon, are very much used, but a founda- 
tion of asparagus or maidenhair ferns or galax leaves is 
very effective with any of the sprini^ flowers; the delicate 



134 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

pink tulips make a beautiful centerpiece with the ferns. 
A variety of flowers may be used by placing at eacli 
plate a bunch of a different kind, as lilacs, jonquils, 
narcissus, lilies of the valley, sweet peas, California 
violets, crocus, hyacinths and mignonette; or they may 
be tied to the backs of the chairs with pale pink ribbons. 
This makes the dining room look like a mass of flowers 
as the guests enter. A simple and individual place card 
has only one's crest or monogram done in gold. 

LUNCHEON MENU 

■ 

Strawberrtes on green leaves 
Cold bouillon, crouton sticks 

(yold lobster, mayonnaise 
Cheese souffle in green 25t32)per8 
Sandwiches 
Beef mignons broiled, mushroom sauce 

Potato timbales Peas 

Garcia salad C'heese crackers 

lee cream fruit forms on maidenhair ferns 

Glace cakes 
Marrons Fig paste Salted nuts 

Coffee 

If strawberries are used, five good sized ones are 
enough for each person, served on the green leaves, or 
if unattainable, on ferns, with powdered sugar on the 
plate in small paper cases. Another fruit or fruit salad 
can be substituted if the berries are too expensive or 
not to be had. 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 135 

The crouton sticks served with the cold bouillon are 
made as follows ; Cut bread into one-fourth-inch slices, 
remove crusts, spread slightly with butter on both sides, 
cut into strips one-fourth inch wide, bake until light 
brown. If the bouillon will not become firm enough of 
itself, a little pulverized gelatine can be used ; it is just 
as delicate this way. One^half of a small cold boiled 
lobster served with a very heavy mayonnaise is the fish 
course. The entree may be the cheese souffle baked 
in green peppers, or an egg course is always in 
place here. 

To make the layers, cut several slices of brown and 
white bread one-fourth inch, butter each, then put five 
together, alternating them. Cut down in slices one- 
fourth inch thick. This gives a sandwich of three brown 
and two white strips. The beef mignons are tender- 
loins cut three-fourths inch thick. If these are not to 
be had, substitute fillet of beef. Fresh mushrooms 
would add very much to this course, but they are beyond 
the average purse. 

Garcia Salad — Cut celery, apples, and fresh toma- 
toes in thin strips about two inches long, serve on lettuce 
leaves with French dressing. A slice of truffle on the 
top adds both to the appearance and flavor. 

Serve the crackers hot with melted cheese on top. 
Nothing in ices is prettier than the beautifully colored 
fruit forms served on niaidenhair ferns in a large silver 
dish.- Small squares of homemade cakes can be sub- 
stituted for the glace c^kes if desired. The coffee is 
served in the drawing room. 



136 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

ITie third form of entertainment is a buffet lunch- 
eon at which from twenty-five to one hundred and fifty 
guests can be entertained. It is more elaborate than a 
reception and less general. The guests are all invited 
for the same hour, usually 2 o'clock. The luncheon can 
be served in three ways. The guests may fill the dining 
room and be served as at a reception; or by having 
chairs enough to seat all the guests at one time scattered 
about through the various rooms. In this case a pretty 
feature is to have a small table set (with cloth or doilies, 
bonbons, etc.) in the center of each room with one or 
two matrons to pour the caffee and • chocolate. Each 
table can have a different color in flowers and candles, 
to correspond with those of the rooiiii . Or, with a 
limited number. of guests, small tables,; ejich seating 
four or six, can be set out through all the r roams. Pour 
courses are the usual number, though' mQre may be 
served when all are seated at tables, ' the form 
being ])ouillon, fish, croquettes, salad -.and : sandwiches 
and a sweet; also coffee and chocolate. Thje fish course 
may be omitted and lobster Newburg be.sei'ved with the 
croquette, the salad. served, as a separate coiirse. If the 
guests are few enough in number to be.served at small 
tables, and a more elaborate menu is desired, the follow- 
ing can be used : Caviar, bouillon, fish, croquettes and 
peas, salad and a sweet, coffee, chocolate. 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 



TEN.CENT LUNCHEONS 

By C. A. h. 

A number, of good and enthusiastic housekeepers, 
realizing how far from ideal the present methods of 



OF OREEN BURLAP, WITH CHINESE COINS 

living are, how unrefreshing and how conventional, 
"planned a plan," namely, a scheme for eerving practi- 



138 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

cable luncheons at ten cents a plate. In order to have 
some fun out of their experiments, they planned to 
share the luncheons, each one in turn acting as both 
cook and hostess to the other eleven. 

The third of these object lessons was given recently. 
The table, set for twelve in a room where gay lights 
were substituted for sunlight, was polished so highly 
that all the ware and decorations were reflected in its 
mahogany depths. Fruits and vegetables in season 
made a decoration which was rich and harmonious in 
coloring. The hostess, too busy with her menu to 
receive her guests, turned that pleasure over to a friend, 
and when she appeared at table, it was in "cookie's" 
garb of starchy white and a captivating baker's cap. 

. The menu for the luncheon was done on green 
burlap ornamented with ten pennies. On one side the 
simple dishes were enumerated in French phraseology. 
On the reverse side appeared the voucher for the cost 
of the materials which went into the feast — everything— 
bread, butter, potatoes, crackers, etc. Translated, the 
appetizing menu read : 

Julienne soup in cups 

Hot French bread Butter balls 

Fish au gratin with potatoes in their jackets 

Beans and lettuce salad 

Babbit stew 

Piece de resiMance 
Timbales of spinach and small peas 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 139 

Dessert 

Strawberry cakes with charlotte russe 

Wafers California cheese 

Black coffee 

Hors d'oeuvre 
Olives 

Chef d'oeuvre 
Surprise salad for the refreshment of the spirit 

It was over the cook^s "work of arf ' that the com- 
pany lingered and made merry. It was a tempting dish 
of salad made of realistic green-yellow paper leaves 
within which was hidden the following guessing game : 

1. A large European city and green. 2. Green 
and a dairy product. 3. Green and a portion of the 
human anatom3^ 4. Green and a musical instrument. 
5. Green and a reptile. 6. Green and a dwelling. 7. 
A sraonym for always and green. 8. Green and a 
common name for material. 9. Green and a portion 
of a house. 10. Green, an elevation of land and a part 
of the United States. 11. Green and part of the 
earth's surface. 

The key to the game may be passed by, if the 
reader wishes to guess the blanks himself. Those are 
the answers: 1, Paris green; 2, green cheese; 3, green- 
back; 4, greenhorn; 5, green turtle; 6, greenhouse; 7, 
evergreen; 8, green goods; 9, greenroom; 10, Green 
Mountain state; 11, Greenland. The first prize was a 



140 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



TUB HOBTBSS OF TKfi TEN-CENT LUNCHEON 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 141 

lettuce leaf plate of majolica, the consolation; a head 
of lettuce. 

The two luncheons which were given previous to 
this one would be found equally original and interesting 
and were also most successful, yet not one hostess but 
will tell you that it is not at all the impossible which 
she is atteinpting, even though she must weigh and 
measure and even cut that she may accomplish the 
desired end. And besides the fact of having given and 
received much simple pleasure, the hostesses of the ten- 
cent luncheons have found that buying with so much 
thought and care brings with it the knowledge of many 
unsuspected possibilities in the household economy. 

A MAY TIME LUNCHEON 
By Marjorie March 



In giving a luncheon two things are of prime 
importance : daintiness of service, congeniality of guests. 
The latter requirement is, of course, true at any enter- 
tainment, but more especially at a formal luncheon 
or dinner, where the life of success must depend upon 
conversation. As we have the wealth of May's bounty 
at our command Jet us choose either apple blooms, dog- 
wood or the wild azalea as the floral decoration, and as 
fashion has given us our choice of serving luncheon 
either at one central table or at several little ones, 
let us by all means choose the small tables. These 
should be covered with small white cloths. A vase of 
flcArers in the center of each, say, shall we, of apple 



Ha THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPINO HOSTESS 

blossoms. The china, if possible, should be pink and 
white in such a case, and everything that can be pink 
should lend its support to the color scheme. In the 
center of the room place a table from which the wait- 
resses serve the accessories of the luncheon. Those 
things such as cakes, candies, fruits, etc., which are 
ornamental as well as useful, can be made beautiful 
for the eye to delight in. An enormous bushel basket, 
given a rough coat of white enamel paint and tied 
about with one or two bands of pink ribbon four or 
five inches in width — a big bow with flying ends at the 
side where it is tied — should stand in the center. In 
this basket some vessel, which of course is entirely 
concealed, should hold a generous supply of water to 
give life and freshness to the huge bouquet of pink 
and white apple blossoms which is the burden the 
basket is to bear. Trailing over the table cover in 
careless, wandering style, smilax should trace its course, 
falling over the edge of the table and caught here and 
there by little butterfly-like bows of pink ribbon. Silver 
bonbon dishes set here and there. amid the smilax should 
hold pink candies, etc. The vases of apple blossoms 
on the smaller tables can have their bouquets tied with 
pink ribbon if desired, but this is not necessary. 

The menu might be as follows : Grape fruit served 
with sherry and candied cherries; creamed sweetbreads 
in pink paper cases; chicken croquettes, Saratoga chips 
and cranberry jelly sandwiches; egg salad, served on 
lettuce leaves, the yolks of the eggs being colored pink; i 
pink ices and fancy cakes; fruits and candy. 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 145 

were awarded for the firgt and second best list of 
answers. A table was arranged as for an ordinary tea 
in the dining room. When the guessing was over we 
were duly refreshed with salads and sandwiches, ioe 
cream, cake, coffee and the like. 



THE SPINSTER'S TEA 

By T. C. C. 

A bevy of girls of our town, with the aid of an 
older head, planned a very enjoyable evening. The 
invitations were headed with a clever pen and ink sketch 
of a cat, the "spinster's solace/' We invited the guests 
to come at 3 o'clock in the afternoon and to appear in 
the costume of the traditional spinster of "ye olden 
time.'' The majority of the girls wore corkscrew curls 
and all of them old-time gowns. They carried reticules 
and quaint bead bags containing sprigs of fennel, sweet 
flagroot and peppermint drops. Each one told a story 
of her courtship and why her lover was rejected. The 
guest telling the best story received as a prize a fine 
picture of a cat. After that we had a guessing match, 
the contestant giving the greatest number of correct 
answers to a series of cat questions being awarded the 
prize — a black ca^ pin cushion. The questions and 
answers were as follows : Library cat, catalog ; aspiring 
cat, catamount ; tree cat, catalpa ; near relation, catkin ; 
water cat, cataract; dangerous cat, catastrophe; barber 
cat, polecat; spicy cat, catsup; cat's favorite plants 



X46 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



catnip ; musical cat, catgut. We had photographs taken 
at the coA^lusion of the tea. This was served at 5 
o'clock. The table was a long, old-fashioned one of 
mahogany, and all the quaint china and glassware 
obtainable was used on it. The menu included old- 
fashioned viands and preserves, cookies, hot biscuit, cold 
chicken, rich fruit cake, gold and silver cake, and other 
old-time varieties. Daguerreotypes, miniatures and 
faded photographs of relatives were brought by most of 
the ""spinsters/' and there was lots of fun inspecting 
them. After the tea we sang Auld Lang Syne and 
other ballads of "ve olden time/* 

A SOFA PILLOW TEA 

A sewing circle for young girls realized one hun- 
dred dollars for a charitable object by a novel enter- 
tainment which they christened a sofa pillow tea. The 
first twenty-five meetings of the circle had been devoted 
to the production of sofa pillows only, with a result 
of a hundred smart cushions. The invitations for the 
tea had the words "pillow sale^^ written in the lower 
left-hand corner, a hint for the charitablv inclined to 
bring their purses. A little reception alcove on one 
side of the hall had been fitted up for displaying the 
cushions, which were arranged upon a couple of large 
tables. Each had a neat ticket giving materials used 
and price. After greeting the hostess and meeting 
friends the guests wandered through to the cushion 
room. Kefreshments were served in the dining room. 



PARTIES FOR CHILDREN 



PARTIES FOR CHILDREN 

A HAPPY CHRISTENING 
By Leila Lyon Topping 

ONE sunshiny spring day the little autocrat came 
into his own--«ilentIy, gravely, with a dignity 
befitting a ruler of many hearts, and after that his 
serene majesty was known as Richard the Second. Some 
of the guests who were present that day have never 
forgotten the little group in the vine-hung bay window 
of the pretty drawing room. The pale, slant rays of 
the setting sun fell upon the rector^s silvery locks, 
touched the earnest face of the father, and rested halo- 
wise above the pure face of the young mother, down 
bent upon the lovely wondering babe in her arms. 

There was a charming simplicity about it all: the 
baby^s gown, exquisitely plain, but of a gossamer sheer- 
ness, the mother herself in a severely simple white frock, 
whose chastely flowing lines were a fit setting for the 
gracious, Madonna-like curves of its wearer. A small 
Flemish oak table, covered with a square of point lace, 
held the baptismal bowl of heavy antique silver, the 
party stood on a white. fur rug, and there was a white 
satin kneeling pillow. Glass bowls of white hyacinths 
and roses were scattered about the room, and there were 
plenty of candles, but these were not lighted until after 
the ceremony. 



152 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



When the guests had paid obeisance to the little 
king, and }ie had departed to the upper regions, a 
simple tea i^^as informally served in the pretty dining 
room. On the way thither, everyone dropped in at the 
library to see the gifts, which were attractively dis- 
played upon a table covered with a white satin spread 
embroidered with flying storks in blue. A many- 
branching silver candelabrum in the center shed a soft 
glow upon the dainty gifts, which werie of every 
conceivable sort. 

The tea table looked very attractive and the decora- 
tions were especially suggestive and appropriate. A 
silver cradle filled with hvacinths and lilies of the vallev 
rested on a square of point lace over white satin. This 
was bordered with small white paper moccasins, each 
. one holding a growing fern of some dwarf variety and 
a tiny white candle.; there were eight on a side and they 
made a brave showing when lighted. Two pretty girh 
presided over the punch bowl and samovar at opposite 
sides of the table, and several others helped to serve 
the guests, no servants appearing. From the steaming 
samovar came delicious tea served in tall glasses, and 
the punch bowl -held a fragrant fruit punch, the ^ base 
of which was leinonade, from which shredded pineapple, 
orange .and banana had been strained, with Maraschino 
cherries added. ^ 

Therie were mblds of jellied . chicken, . with salad 
sandwiches, rolled and tied with white ribbons, and 
there were also sweet sandwiches of various sorts. ■ These 
were cut heart shaped and filled, some with peach or 



PARTIES FOR CHILDREN 153 

orange marmalade, chopped pineapplf and rrcaiii cheese, 
and still other? were made nf graham bread spread with 
raisins and chopped English walnuts. 



A pleasiDg novelty were the ice cream sandwiches. 
The little cakes and bonbons were all white and grecE, 



Z54 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

and there were pistache nuts sprinkled among the 
salted pecans, with several dishes of crystallized fruits, 
pineapple, orange and angelica. Everything was pre- 
pared at home and was dainty and successful to a 
degree of perfection. The salad sandwiches, which were 
especially delectable, were made of chicken, pounded to 
a paste and mixed with a green mayonnaise, then spread 
between crisp lettuce leaves, and all the sweet fillings 
were bound together with whipped cream. 

The ice cream sandwiches are delightful and easily 
made, provided that the cream — in bricks, of course — 
be very firm and cut upon a marble slab with a cake 
cutter. Pineapple cream was used between champagne 
wafers, and pistache with macaroons, on this occasion, 
the color scheme being consistently carried out in every 
detail. 

A PAPER PARTY 
By Virginia Van De Water 

The invitations for this party should be issued long 
enough beforehand for the parents of the children to 
prepare for them costumes of tissue paper. This will 
not be found so difficult as it sounds. Any woman 
who is deft with her fingers can make such a costume 
for her small boy or girl. If possible, let her visit one 
of the fashion plate shops where are displayed the latest 
models of gowns done in tissue paper, and she will soon 
see what really pretty effects can be produced. The 
mother of each guest may send word to the hostess 



PARTIES FOR CHILDREN i55 

what color her costume will be and the hostess will then 
get a fancy paper cap to match each dress and suit. 

The parlors and hall and dining room can be deco- 
rated with Chinese lanterns and tissue paper floweins 
and streamers. Over the dining table may be hung a 
huge paper umbrella of the Japanese variety and from 
the tip of each rib of this is suspended a paj)er bag 
containing some trifle such as a tiny Ciiinese doll, or :i 
Chinese pig, or any one of the many favors that can 
be bought at an oriental sliop. The table is s})rca(i 
with a white cloth, and lighted by candles with colored 
paper shades. Refreshments are served in papier mache 
plates. Japanese paper napkins are at each place. 

When the little ones are assembled all are told to 
hunt for the caps that match their costume. Tlicse 
caps are hidden about the rooms, and each child is 
instructed not to touch any caj) excej)t one that is of 
the same color as his clothes. This gives rise to a great 
deal of merriment, for the boy or girl wlio carelessly 
or rashly puts the -tip of a linger on a caj) of any hue 
save the one belonging to him or her is required to jp'ay 
a forfeit, and after the head coverings are all found 
a game of forfeit follows. 

Then provide each child with a pair of scissors, a 
pencil, and a gheet of paper. Each names some animal 
he or she will first draw, then cut out. The one making 
the best picture wins a prize, the one making the funniest 
receives a booby prize. The first prize for the girls may 
be a pretty paper doll with her wardrobe, that can be 
put on and oflE. The first prize for the boys is a hand- 



Z56 THE GOOD HOUSBKEEPINO HOSTESS 

some paper-covered book. The booby prize for the girls 
can be a tiny fan, for the boys a small grotesque 
Japanese doll. After the prizes are distributed each 
child takes his place in the middle of the group and 
tells what animal he has attempted to draw, while the 
circle of children make the noise natural to the animal 
named. 

The refreshments are now served to the children 
at the large dining table, or carried into the drawing 
room to them, where they may be seated about in groups. 
Serve iced bouillon, chicken sandwiches, thin slices of 
tongue, ices, cakes and lemonade. Each child has given 
him a little paper box of candy that had been put at 
his place at the supper table and this he takes home 
with him. 

When the refreshments are eaten, clear the dining 
table, and move away the chairs. Stand the children 
in a row around the board, and hand to each in order 
a long stiff switch or stick ; or you may give the switches 
to all at once. With these the little -ones are to hook 
the bags off the tips of the umbrella ribs. It will require 
a little care to slip the end of the stick through the loop 
of string by which the paper bag is suspended and lift 
it down without dropping it. Fortunately, the contents 
of the parcels are of the unbreakable variety, so no 
damage is done if they fall. 

If there is any time left before the hour for depart- 
ure, have some comparatively quiet games such as *'ring 
around a rosy/' or "hunt the slipper,^^ always bearing 
in mind that paper costumes, while pretty and effective. 



PARTIES FOR CHILDREN 157 

re not proof against the rough handling inseparable 
om romping games. 

A WINTER PICNIC 
By Hester Price 

Margie Dean was a little girl who had been patient 
Qcl good through a long illness, but now that she felt 
Tong again it seemed hard to her tiiat she could not 
an and play with the boys and girls she knew. One 
ay she was standing at the window mournfully watch- 
ig the children go by with their sleds and skates, when 
er mother said : "Margie, let's have your little friends 
pend Saturday here. Suppose we play 'tis summer 
nd ask all the boys and girls to a winter picnic." 

The invitations were short notes on small sheets 
f white paper with a bit of fern at the top of each, 
fou may imagine the children's surprise when they read : 
Will you come down to my pond at 1 o'clock Saturday ?" 
i'hey asked each other : "Did your note have 125 Blank 
treet on it? How can Margie Dean have a pond in 
he house ? Where does she keep it ?" You may be 
are they all decided not to go skating that Saturday. 

What fun Margie and her mother had getting 
eady ! They moved all the potted plants to the dining 
t)om. They covered the sideboard, servi^ng table and 
nantelpiece with white. Here and there they scattered 
I few ferns and Margie arranged some cat-tails she had 
ttought from the country last summer in a great jar 
ai one comer. ^' 



PARTIES FOR CHILDREN tS9 

The round table was covered- with denim of a soft 
green. In th^ center of the table was the pond. This 
pond was really a round mirror with edges concealed 
with smilax. On its surface were toy ducks and geese, 
little toys of the most inexpensive sort, while grazing on 
the banks were miniature cows, horses and sheep. The 
chandelier was entirely concealed with branches of arbor 
vitae. Over the" tablecloth were scattered a few ferns 
and white narcissi. 

The menu was very simple, but each course was • 
so "picnicky"^ that the children entered merrily into the 
^un. This was what they had for the picnic luncheon : 

Malaga grapes 

Bouillon 

Thin bread and butter 

Broiled chicken Potato straws 

Brown bread and butter 

Sandwiches Cocoa 
Cream cheese and lettuce 
. Xut sandwiches 
Bird's nest pudding. Whipped cream 

Small cakes 

The fruit course was in place when the children 
entered the dining room. Though very simply arranged 
this added greatly to the charm of the table. Mrs. Dean 
had made small nests of excelsior and placed one at each 
cover filled with Malaga grapes. Under each nest was 
a fern frond. After the first course small packages. 



i6o THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

wrapped in Japanese napkins and tied with yellbw and 
green baby ribbon, were passed. These packages proved 
to be sandwiches made of different things and to be 
eaten with the different courses. 

The potato straws were crisp and dry. With each 
cup of cocoa were two papier mache straws. The cream 
cheese was made into small "bitd^s eggs/^ flecked with 
pepper and disposed in nests of lettuce. The blancmange 
was molded in eggshells that Margie had taken great 
delight in "blowing." They were arranged upon a flat 
platter in a nest of whipped cream. For this course 
spoons were passed, and Margie gaily reminded her 
friends that even at an outdoor picnic one spoon was 
allowed and she had saved them for the whipped cream. 
The small cakes were iced in three tints, white, yellow 
and pale green. 

At the very last a tray was passed, piled high with 
round bags of yellow and green crepe paper. These 
bags were simply squares of crepe paper fluffed at the 
edges, filled with marshmallows and tied with baby 
ribbon. The spring colors made a pretty showing and 
the opening of the packages was an added pleasure for 
the children. 

When the picnic was over Mrs. Dean gathered the 
children aroimd a big wood fire and beguiled them into 
discussing summer days, gardening, and the flowers they 
loved best. Together they went through flower catalogs 
till their enthusiasm was high. She then left the room 
and when she came back she had a pretty bag filled 
with small packages of flower seeds. From this each 



PARTIES POR-CHILDRBN x6i 

child was allowed to take a package and she told them 
to wait until spring and then plant the seed and see 
what flowers would grow. 

The recipes used for the luncheon were the fol- 
lowing : 

Potato Strawa-^Toteiio straws are light and harm- 
less and should not be classed with harmful fried food. 
Cut the straws lengthwise of the potato, first in slices 
about one-eighth of an inch thick, and then into straws 
the length of the slices. They should be cooked quickly 
in hot fat until crisp and of a lemon color. The straws 
are especially pretty if cut with a fluted knife. 

Nut Sandwiches — Cut thin slices of buttered 
graham bread into circles with a small biscuit cutter. 
Place on top of each sandwich the meat of one-half of an 
English walnut. The walnuts may be held in place 
with a little butter. 

Bird's Nest Pudding — Put one pint of milk on to 
heat in a double boiler, moisten four tablespoons of 
cornstarch mixed with four tablespoons sugar with a 
little cold milk and stir into the hot milk; stir imtil it 
thickens, then add a teaspoon of vanilla. Have ready 
some eggshells that have been emptied from a small hole 
in the top, flU them with this mixture, stand them in a 
pan of Indian meal or flour to prevent them from fall- 
ing over, and put in a cold place to harden. Whip a 
pint of cream, dispose the cornstarch eggs upon a round 
platter, surrounded with a nest of whipped cream. 



-•tu 






x6a TH£ GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

FOR THB UTTLB POLKS 
By B. P. 

I know of no expenditure of time and work whicb 
yields such a return in pleasure as entertaining a party 
of children. *lt blesses him that gives and him that 
tdkes," except in cases where the latter is in danger of 
being killed by excess of culinary kindness. I have 
observed, too, that children are just as contented, and 
far happier as to their insides, if quantity and quality 
instead of bewildering variety, be kept in mind in pro- 
viding the table. It is most important that the dishes 
served be those easily assimilated and easily digested 
together. An unwise selection of things, each good by 
itself alone, has sent many a little tot home to have a 
*^pain under his apron^' or rather under his nightie 
(as I believe all children take darkness and the *Vee 
sma* hours^' to enjoy this common affliction at its best). 
I feel it is such a pity to give rich and conflicting 
food to children I 

Among the many desirable and reasonably safe 
items from which a suitable menu may be selected are 
the following: any form of bouillon or cream soup in 
cups; nourishing sandwiches or tiny buttered rolls, with 
cold meats sliced thin — ^tongue (not canned) and turkey 
or chicken. As a rule, children prefer the last to all 
meats, so either creamed or cold it always disappears 
in astonishing qtraTttities, and when creamed, peas are 
good with it. Novel And ornamental small cakes, cookies 



PARTIES FOR CHILDREN 163 

or kisses; custards, junkets or a simple homemade ice 
cream; and pure candy — ^the ribbon candies which look 
80 much and amount to so little. For drinks^ chocolate 
is particularly attractive to young people, with its white 
cap of whipped cream; lemonade (sometimes), and 
plenty of water. Ice cream may be molded in forms 
and enjoyed with the eyes, but is too often so hard that 
it is no pleasure to eat it, and I think it better to have 
softer cream served in small fancy cases. Fresh or 
canned pineapple is a wholesome accompaniment, as 
this fruit contains an acid which helps to digest milk. 
But, do your best, and once in a while one comes across 
a freaky child who is not satisfied with anything on the 
table. I well remember our efforts to warm and fill one 
bashful guest — scarcely more than a baby — ^who after 
refusing everything, timidly raised his serious brown 
eyes and asked if we had any cold potatoes in the house ! 
I give a recipe for a nutritious broth which makes a good 
beginning for little and big : 

Three pounds of beef cut from the shin; three 
pounds of bone from same, cracked; four quarts of 
water, and four teaspoons of salt. Trim oflf the dried 
skin and other unusable parts of the meat, cut the 
remainder into small pieces, place with the other ingre- 
dients in a covered earthen jar and let stand one hour 
before setting in a slow oven to cook from eight to 
twelve hours. Put through a coarse strainer and when 
cold remove fat. In serving, add more seasoning if you 
wigh, and never heat above one htrndred and seventy- 
five degrees. This may also be used as a jelly. 



z64 THB GOOD HOUSBKBBPINQ R08TB8S 

A plate of little turtle cakes never fails to call 
forth squeals of delight. Bake a plain cake mixture in 
tiny pans in a hot oven; frost and put a fat raisin in 
the center of each before the frosting hardens ; pinch the 
buds out of four small cloves and arrange for feet ; use 
one, containing the bud, for a head; and the pointed 
stem of another for a tail. Plain cookies, cut in shapes 
of oak or maple leaves and frosted with green frosting, 
are both delicious and wholesome; and cookies sugared 
and bearing the initials of the guests in white frosting; 
or frosted first and the letters put on with an icing col- 
ored with chocolate, are far more tempting than cookies 
that are less individual. 

For a birthday, the crowning glory of the table is 
the cake, resplendent with candles. The candles ate 
lighted and allowed to burn during the eating of the 
refreshments, each* child blowing out one of the lights 
just before cutting the cake, which is passed round last 
of all. Mothers are few who can refuse this pleasure, 
but one who had an abnormal fear of fire compromised 
by allowing a single huge wax candle to burn in the 
center of the cake, using as a safe holder the cylindrical 
opening left by the tube pan in the baking. The cake 
should be '.f good size and plain in every way save 
looks. The good old fashion of inserting in the dough 
when in the pan a silver thimble, a ring, a new ten- 
cent piece and a bean, never loses its charm. When the 
cake is cut there is always excitement till the one who 
is to be first married gets the ring (and I have known 
young women of f oiir years to be intensely interested in 



PARTIES FOR CHILDREN 165 

this superstition) ; whoever gets the bean will be a 
ruler^ nothing less than president, probably; the thimble 
denotes an ideal housewife, in embryb; and she who 
gets the silver piece will have riches all her days. In 
olden times, when sensibilities were perhaps not so 
acute, somebody found a clove in the cake, and so pro- 
claimed himself a knave-to-be. 

Do not use confectioner's sugar to frost the cake, 
but white of egg and pulverized sugar or a boiled icing. 
Sprinkle with grated cocoanut and ornament the top 
with a border of tiny chocolate drops or candied cher- 
ries, or with crystallized fruit cut into bits, or with 
candied caraway seeds. Dainty candle holders in all 
colors are for sale at confectioners', but a pretty sub- 
stitute can be made of a fringe of tissue paper wound 
tightly around each candle before setting into the frost- 
ing ; spread out the fringe to catch any wax. 

At the last party at which I officiated, the candles 
were so numerous that we cut a ring of pasteboard — its 
inside diameter being just that of the cake at the base — 
covered it with green tissue paper and ornamented it 
with laurel leaves. On this frame yellow candles were 
fixed. The table was trimmed with sprays and branches 
of laurel, with tangerine oranges invisibly tied to them 
to simulate the natural growth of the fruit. These 
made an effective showing and precious souvenirs to 
carry home. 

If candles are not to be used, a cake which is a 
favorite with owners of a sweet tooth is one made of 
an angel cake mixture, baked in two parts and put 



4 

I'- 
ll 



PARTIES FOR CHILDREN 167 

together with a layer of marshmallows which have been 
soaked a short time in milk strongly flavored with 
sherry. The top is to be covered with the same and 
garnished profusely with whipped cream — also flavored 
with sherry — and put on with a star pastry tube. The 
cake and the cream need very little sugar. 

The making of popcorn balls always pleases little 
people, the greater part of the com being popped before- 
hand, of course ; and a wonder-ball party, while a .niore 
serious undertaking, is sure to make a hit. Bits of 
presents are bought or made — charms, money, dolFs 
gear and what-not — and one used as the center of a 
ball of worsted, which, as it is .wound, conceals the little 
gifts wrapped in soft paper and put in from time to 
time. The receiver begins to knit on coarse needles, 
and as the yarn is used the little surprises fall out. 
It is certainly a great incentive to industry to have 
something nice drop into your lap while you work; but 
it needs a very patient mother and assistants to look 
out for dropped stitches. 

For girls of a little older growth, the idea of an 
entertainment designated in the invitation sent my 
small niece of twelve as ^^a blissful tea," deserves to be 
passed along. After greeting her hostess, each guest 
is given a menu card, with pencil attached, upon which 
are numbers, from one to ten or more, with a blank 
space after each; and across the top the line, ^^Where 
ignorance is bliss,*' in gold lettering. * A colored repro- 
duction of some' dainty dish, cut from advertisements, 
is pasted neatly on each card, the things in the bill 



x68 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



pf-fare being suggested so far as possible. (These 
cards were manufactured by the little girl who gave 
the party, and that is where part of her fun came in.) 
The recipient writes her name on the card, puts a 
check mark against the numbers she selects and the 
orders are duly served by friends in caps and aprons, 
who fill them from another room after consulting a 
similar card which has the list completed and tacked 
up. oyer the serving table; for example: 

1. Glass of child^s punch. 

2. Chicken croquette. 

3. College ice. 

4. Cup of chocolate. 

5. Olive. 

6. Box of candy. 

7. Toothpick. 

8. EoUed sandwiches. 

9. Glass of water. 
10. Macaroons 

The numbers may be increased, or other articles 
readily substituted for the ones on this list. The first 
order may be limited to five or six numbers, and a 
second order to two, to provide for a supposable case 
when an unfortunate has checked perhaps, one, five, 
six, seven and nine, and finds that ignorance is neither 
blissful nor filling. A supply of small tables set in 
convenient spots is a necessity for a party of this kind. 

Child's Punch — Boil together for five minutes one 
quart of water anS^one and one-half pounds of sugar; 



PARTIES FOR CHILDREN 169 

add grated rind of one lemon and one orange^ and 
when cool, strain. Add juice of two oranges and four 
lemons. Pour in a pitcher with a lump of ice, add a 
quarter of a pound each of candied cherries and pine- 
apple cut fine, and a quart of water. 

Peanut Cream — Three pints of peanuts, shelled 
and put through a chopper adjusted to cut as fine as 
possible, two cups of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of milk 
and a small piece of butter. Stir together till dissolved 
the sugar, butter and milk ; then cook without disturb- 
ing till it spins a thread, or till 3"ou can make a soft 
ball of a little of the syrup dropped in ice water. Take 
from the fire and while one person stirs, another must 
pour in the nuts. Beat till thick and creamy, pour 
into buttered pans and cut in small squares when cold. 

The amusing experiment of a Lilliputian naval 
battle — ^which is so old that I trust it is new — always 
entertains a company of boys. Let them model, say, 
a dozen or more pieces of chalk to resemble ships, 
making the bottoms even, and using matches (without 
tips) for masts, smokestacks and turrets. Color part 
of them with black ink and leave the rest white. Put 
the different colors — the opposing forces — in a row 
along the sides of a very large platter and draw an 
imaginary line lengthwise across it. Let each boy 
choose sides, and then let the lord high admiral (the 
young host) carefully pour a good quantity of vinegar 
between the chalk sticks. Instantly there will be an 
audible seething, like the hissing of shelis m actual 
warfare, while the ships will begin to move forward 



170 THE GOOD HOUSBKBBPI^Q HOSTESS 

in slow revolutions^ leaving streaks of foam behind. 
When meeting at the dividing line, they will have 
attained quite a respectable speed, bumping and hitting 
in the endeavor to push one another farthest from the! 
line. The engagement often proves an exciting one. 
Of course the side is victorious which has the greater 
number of ships in the enemy^s waters after the cruel 
war is over. 

But no matter what the other entertainment may 
be, children anticipate and frankly enjoy the good 
things to eat. My experience was doubtless not unique 
at one party, when at the end of a rollicking game, and 
while preparing for another, I felt a soft hand slip into 
mine and heard the whisper: "But, auntie, when are 
we going to have the party?'* 



A "THREE-YEAR-OLD" PARTY 
By K. C. H. 

When Eleanor was three yoars old we decided to 
avoid the excitement of a birthday party and celebrate 
with a tiny dinner party. Two little girls, of three 
summers each, were the guests. Several days before 
the birthday baby was thrown into excitement over the 
lovely pink baskets mamma was making, and her first 
thought when she awoke on her birthday morning was 
to give mamma three sweet kisses and one to grow on, 
and to remark, "Xow I don't have to wait any longer 
for my bajikot."' The ba?kots wore made of paste- 



PARTIES FOR CHILDREN X7Z 

boards covered with pink crepe paper and lined with 
cream colored paper. Each basket was filled with 
choice candies. In the center of each was a tiny nest 
made of packing moss. Three candy eggs peeped from 
each little^ nest. These were the favors, and three 
childish hearts were made glad by them. Mamma made 
a lovely pink and white marble cake, icing it in white 
and covering it with pretty pink candies; three little 
candles sent their congratulatory beams to the little 
hostess from this pinnacle of sweets. A pedestal of 
flowers held the cake, and verv beautiful it looked. 
Friends sent in bouquets, so the table was bright with 
flowers. The number three was made prominent, 
deviled eggs, butter, etc., all being served from small 
plates each holding three. The potato nests were very 
cute. Three small plates were set on the ice, butter 
was put in a coarse cheesecloth and pressed through in 
the shape of a ring. When dinner was served three 
small potatoes were put in each ring of butter and 
speckled with coarse pepper. These delighted the 
children. How each little maiden trembled with 
importance as she touched the match to one of the 
candles, and how grown-up they felt, to sit in chairs 
at the table, without bibs, waited on like ladies; and 
ladies they were, behaving with decorum and still enjoy- 
ing the new feature with true childish delight. 



BOYS' AND GIRLS' PARTIES 



BOYS* AND GIRLS' PARTIES 

WALKING LETTERS 
By Mary Dawson 

AN excellent game for young people from six to 
eleven years is called Walking Letters. The 
idea made its debut a few weeks ago at a child's 
party in New York. The children present are formed 
into two bands or sides, each band containing exactly 
the same number of players. The bands are separated 
when the game is about to begin, each side taking up 
its position in one end of the room. Lots are drawn 
to decide which band will be first to choose a letter. The 
side drawing the slip marked ''Begin'' consult among 
themselves and choose a letter — ^any letter in the alpha- 
bet, from A to Z. The letter is kept strictly secret from 
members of the opposing band and is walked by one 
of the beginning side, who takes up his position in the 
center of the floor, and forms the letter by walking 
about in any direction necessary to describe an imaginary 
character upon the carpet. Each letter is walked three 
times, very slowly and carefully. If the opposing party 
can guess its name, a point is won for their side and 
chalked upon the blackboard where score is kept. If 
they fail to guess it, nothing is won, and the turn passes 
to the opponents, who now endeavor to guess a second 
letter outlined by one of those who were formerly guess- 



Z76 THB GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HQSTEJ^S 

ers. And so the fun goes on until each side has had 
plenty of chances. When the guessing side wins a point, 
that is, when they guess the letter correctly, they may 
demand other letters, and go on guessing and winning 
until they lose a point, when the turn reverts to the 
opponents. 

IN^umbers can be walked as well as letters, and will 
be found to make a pleasant deviation in the long game. 
Walking Letters oflfers a suggestion for an afternoon 
party which can be arranged for in half an hour by using 
the idea and securing a few pretty things for prizes. 
Members of the side winning the most points draw 
among themselves for the first prize. It is just as well 
to have inexpensive consolation gifts on hand for all who 
fail to win a trophy, thus preventing a lot of disap- 
pointment. 

A BIG GAME HUNT 
By Mrs. PacdagogtM 

When my yearly problem of getting acquainted with 
the senior class faced me last fall, it seemed to me that 
there was nothing new under the sun. But in October 
we had our *T)ig game hunt/^ a very nonsensical even- 
ing, and yet we had a good time and got acquainted. 

My invitation had a little oval picture of President 
Eoosevelt in the upper left-hand comer and was written 
and read like this : "To meet President Theodore Eoose- 
velt's ideas and to follow his example, the pleasure of 
Miss Brown's company is requested for a Big Game 



BOYS' AND GIRLS' PARTIES 277 

Hunt^ Friday evening, October 17, 1902, to Btart from 
12 Main street promptly at 7.30 o^clods. Personally 
conducted by Mr. and Mrs. Paedagogue.'* 

When our guests came, they assembled in our large 
living room, where there were seats for the greater part 
of them. This room had little in the way of decora- 
tions ; just a few branches of hemlock in the electroliers, 
and boughs of oak and maple over the mantel and the 
portieres. A big fire was laid in the fireplace, ready to 
light. We chatted all together until about 8 o^clock, 
when I. cast my eye over the company and saw the usual 
formation — ^nearly every one of the boys in a solid 
phalanx on one side of the room. Surely it was time to 
start the hunt. 

The company was made up of thirty-two high 
school seniors, the six assistant teachers, Mr. Paeda- 
gogue and me. The teachers were the ministering angels 
who helped me all through the evening. At 8 o'clock 
they gave to each of our guests a little game bag which 
we had made for them. In each bag was a score card 
and pencil. Then I explained to the young people that 
all through the vicinity were many game animals, chiefly 
concealed in the woods. They were to have twenly 
minutes to hunt them, then they were to report their 
scores, according to the tally cards, and the largest scores 
should have prizes. We drew the curtains aside, throw- 
ing open the study, the dining room and the conserv- 
atory, which had . a really woodsy appearance. Each 
room was lighted by only one bulb, and that covered 
with green tissue paper and surrounded with hemlock 



178 THB GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS^ 

branches. In every cbmer stood a little tree of oak 
or hemlock; screens covered with maple boughs were 
arranged to make aisles and groves. In the twigs and 
branches and in any other good hiding places in the 
rooms^ hidden as effectively as possible, were five pounds 
of animal crackers. 

As soon as Mr. Paedagogue wound the hunting horn, 
the guests began the hunt with enthusiasm. The funny 
little animals were put into the game bags as captured, 
and in twenty minutes the hunting horn called the 
hunters from the forest. The tally cards were written 
like this: Lion twenty, tiger twenty, bear twenty, hip- 
popotamus twenty, wild goat ten, wild sheep ten; all 
other animals, ^ve each. Each hunter reported his own 
score, and then the prizes were awarded. The boy and 
the girl having the highest scores had each a little silver 
stickpin in the form of a fox's head ; and the consolation 
prize was a bag of salt — to put on the tails of the 
animals, of course. 

After ten minutes' chat, the teachers distributed lo 
each of the boys and girls a sheet of manila paper, about 
sixteen by twenty-four, a colored crayon, a card having 
the names of forty animals and a little card having the 
names of one of these animals and a number. Every 
guest was asked to draw on his sheet of paper a picture 
of the animal named on his little card, and to attach its 
number. On the study table was a dictionary, open at 
pictures of animals, and when a boy told me that he 
couldn't remember how a camelopard looked, I referred 
him to the book. So in ten minutes the pictures began 



BOYS' AND GIRLS' PARTIES 170 

to come in^ and I hung every one ^'on the line/^ or the 
wires which were stretched the length of the living room. 
After a little time to admire the works of art^ the guests 
were asked to attach numbers to the names of animals 
on their score cards, thus guessing what each drawing 
represented. There was a good deal of fun in this. 

After time had been given to put a number after 
each name on the score card^ the lists of what they were 
intended to represent were read. Again the winners had 
simple little prizes : he, a china pointer dog; she, a pho* 
tographic reproduction of a lion^s head, mounted passe- 
partout. The booby was an animal alphabet«book. The 
names were written on the score card, as some of the 
drawings would be hard to identify. 

Next came supper. We had taken forty little 
wooden plates, such as are sold for picnics, and on two 
of them drawn, with a few lines of sepia, lions' heads, on 
two others, elephants; and so on, until we had twenty 
pairs, which we divided into two sets of twenty plates 
each. We distributed one set of these to the boys, the other 
to the girls, and thus the boys found their mates for sup- 
per. When the partners were found and the company 
seated, a part of the boys on piazza cushions on the floor, 
my ministering angels passed the very simple picnic 
luncheon — sandwiches, stuffed eggs, coffee, crullers and 
cheese, and olives and pickles. I was not able to get for 
my coffee the tin cups that I wanted but I did get sturdy 
mugs, suitable for any camp; and the napkins were 
paper ones. After luncheon, the fire was lighted, and, 
as. we sat watching the climbing flames, glowing yellow 



z8o THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

and green with driftvrood, I had all the lights turned 
off, leaving the room with no illumination save the fire 
and Mr. Paedagogue^s low reading lamp, with its dark 
shade. Beside the lamp sat Mr. Paedagogue, and as 
we watched the firelight, he read — and Mr. Paedagogue 
can read — the last few pages of The Trail of the 
Sandhill Stag. 

Then two boys of the class came in, each with a 
cushion under one arm and a banjo under the other, 
seated themselves on the floor and struck up In the Good 
Old Summer Time, which has been a rall)^ song of the 
class ever since the ditty came out. All the class took 
it up at once and sang it through. Until 10 o'clock they 
sang college and other popular songs. Then the players 
stopped and the lights were turned on. 

This entertainment might have been burdensome 
had I not shared the work with the teachers. A week 
before the party 1 gave the forty plates to four of the 
teachers, and each made five pairs, taking the little 
sketches of animals' heads from the margins of Thomp- 
son-Seton's books. The other teachers wrote the score 
cards. Wednesday before the party we had a "bee" and 
made the game bags with the help of my sewing ma- 
chine. Mr. Paedagogue and I had cut a part of them 
the evening before, so the basting and stitching began 
at once ; we were all busy, there was no waiting and we 
finished them in three hours, besides drinking a pot of 
tea. The bags were made of khaki, or something much 
like it, the class color being yellow. 

The little pencils are a considerable item of ex- 



BOYS' AND GIRLS' PARTIES x8| 

pense, and it would be just as well to pass common 
pencils when the score is called for. The afternoon of 
the .party we arranged the rooms in something less than 
two hours. Mr. Paedagogue had two of the boys bring 
us a load of boughs, hemlock, oak and maple. The larg- 
est ones — ^little trees — ^we stood in the corners ; the small- 
est we put in the electroliers. The rest we tied together 
in pairs by the ends, near the tips of the boughs, leaving 
about six inches of cord between them. I borrowed sev- 
eral screens and made aisles of them in each room, then 
hung the pairs of boughs by these cords over the tops 
of the screens, a branch on each side. Large boughs 
are always so satisfactory a decoration; the foliage is 
always graceful^ and they are quickly put up and taken 
down. 



BA8TBR PUN AND EASTER PEASTINQ 

By £. M. 

A party given last year for a crowd of boys and girls 
home on the Easter vacation was full of new ideas for 
entertaining at this season. All of them could be 
adapted for older people if desired. The invitations 
were lettered in green and violet on paper eggs, for 
which ingenious egg-shaped envelopes had been made 
by the hostess. Easter colors were even secured in the 
outside of the invitations by writing the address in violet 
ink and obeying Uncle Sam's behest by using two green 
one-cent stamps. The invitation read : 



z82 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

"Elizabeth Evans, 
Eight to Eleven, -^ 

Easter Evening. . 

Eggs, Euchre, Edibles/' 

The guests found reception rooms decorated in 
white, green and purple. The young hostess was aided in 
receiving by three delighted little sisters, each one in a 
ballet-like, white frock fringed about the edge of the 
skirt with purple violets and their leaves. The crowd 
of jolly young people were divided. Those who wished 
to play euchre each received a tiny basket, not unlike a 
nest, lined with fine straw. It was designed to hold 
the counters, which consisted of purple eggs for the 
winners, pale green ones for the losers. "Green with 
envy" was the epithet bestowed on a booby who retired 
from the game with not a single purple egg in 
the nest. 

The young folks who decided in favor of games in- 
stead of cards, had all sorts of fun awaiting them. 
One frolic went on in the big attic, where a strange, 
maze-like path two feet wide had been whitened with 
chalk. It wound in and out behind trunks, among 
old furniture and barrels, sometimes perilously near the 
stair head, or into corners where one had to follow it 
with stooping shoulders. This white path was an egg- 
rolling alley, and the rollers were the boys and girls 
who found themselves partners by the color of the eggs 
they had chosen. The eggs had been hard boiled, then 
dyed. There were two of each shade^ and when the 



BOYS' AND GIRLS' PARTIES 183 

yotmg folks drew them from the depths of a long bag, 
they took the color which luck ordered. A monitor 
stationed in the attic with a paper of rules started the 
game^ each color coming in a certain order. The egg- 
rolling couple were armed each with a long-handled 
wooden spoon, such as a housewife uses to stir her 
pickles and preserves. The eggs were started very care- 
fully and coaxed or tapped along, using the spoons as 
bats. The contest lay in keeping the eggs from rolling 
otf the chalked path. As soon as one rolled over the 
edge, that.spooner was out of the game until a turn 
came again, for in succession each one had three chances 
at the attic egg-rolling. It was great fun, even if only 
three came out winners, for the contest was anything 
but an easy one. 

Another delightful half hour was spent over a hen 
and chicken game, something after the same idea whicli 
obtained at donkey parties years ago. At one end of a 
room well cleared of furniture, was tacked a big sheet 
of paper on which thrre was a clever, although rough, 
sketch in colored chalks of a clucking mother hen, a 
straw nest and a number of chipped eggs^ To eacli 
boy and girl was given a roughly executed watercolor 
sketch of a little chicken cut out from heavy paper; to 
the back was attached a gummed wafer. It was also 
numbered, that number belonging till the game was over 
to the boy or girl who had drawn the chicken. In their 
turn, according to the number, a player was blindfolded, 
ordered to start at the tinkle of a bell in the direction 
of the hen and her eggs, and moistening the pajoer 



184 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

■ — — - — 

wafer, stick the chicken on, as near an egg or the mQjher 
hen as possible. Each player, still blindfolded, wai led 
to a chair to sit in darkness till the game was fini|)^ed. 
The result, when all were able to use their eyes,' was 
uproarious shouts of laughter. Some of the little chick- 
ens sat on the top of the mother hen^s head, one hung 
perilously head first from the point of her beak, some 
were climbing up her well feathered sides, while others 
lay in the straw kicking their heels in the air, or they 
blotched an eggshell out of existence. Two prizes were 
given to the players who had perched a chick in the 
most ridiculous place, the number on the back of the 
paper chick denoting the winner. 

Another frolic, just before supper was announced, 
consisted of an egg hunt. This time the eggs were of 
the gourd variety. They were tucked away in every 
possible hiding place which could be found in a parlor 
and sitting room. Only one hunter at a time was al- 
lowed to go searching, the others were shut out in the 
hall. The hostess carried a memorandum of where 
the eggs had been hidden, and accompanying the searcher 
she clapped her hands slow or fast as the hunt waxed 
cold or hot. Each egg bore in gold letters the name 
of a guest, and if the wrong one was found it was re- 
turned to its hiding place, the hunt continuing till each 
one found an egg that bore its owner^s name. It was 
found that the top of each gourd egg had been removed, 
then covered with a lid of paper and plaster of pans. 
Inside were tiny favors, a thimble, a daintily dressed 
wee doll, a strawberry emery, a pincushion, a button- 



BQYS' AND GIRLS' PARTIES 185 

hook, a stickpin, a ribbon, collar buttons, anything Lilli- 
putian enough to be hidden in an egg. 

The appearance of the supper table was greeted with 
hearty cheers. It appealed to the artistic sense of a 
group of happy young folks as well as to their appetites. 
In the center of the table over a mat of asparagus ferns, 
a little wheelbarrow filled with candy eggs was drawn 
by two frolicsome brown rabbits, cutting up all sorts of 
didoes. The driver was a yellow chicken with a pair of 
reins in its beak. From this centerpiece radiated purple 
and green ribbons to each place, ending in a little mat 
of asparagus and a few stray violets. In the center of 
each sat a Humpty Dumpty egg, dressed with a tissue 
paper headdress to cartoon each young guest. The 
dudish boy's Humpty Dumpty wore an imitation silk 
hat, the girl who went in for golf found an egg wearing 
a droll little tam-o'-shanter. The boy who had won the 
title of "Stupid" in school discovered his place by an 
egg with a dunce cap, while the football lad's egg needed 
no hat, it was liberally thatched with a crop of un- 
combed excelsior. 

The menu was simple enough, but excellent. There 
was a splendid array of sandwich plates, each one bearing 
at the side a brown candy rabbit with its ears pricked 
up and holding aloft on a paper banner a sandwich 
name, egg, chicken, lettuce, tongue, ham, nuts, or what- 
ever the filling might be. The ice cream was delight- 
fully served, and the conceit was a homemade one. From 
sheets of sponge cake had been cut oblongs, which did 
duly as small wagons^ with tiny sponge cake round? 



X86 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

stuck in by toothpicks to look like wheels at the four 
corners. Each wagon bore a big white ice cream 
egg, molded Mdth two spoons from the hard frozen 
mixture. 

TWO JOLLY EVENINGS 

By M. Louise Shaver 

One rainy autumn day gave promise of such a 
disagreeable evening, I thought it would be pleasant 
to plan a little amusement for my brother, younger 
sister and a cousin Avho was visiting us. After a 
few moments' thought I gathered several magazines 
and cut from them the most interesting looking illus- 
trated advertisements, carefully clipping from them all 
lettering which might afford a clue as to what they 
were to advertise. I intended to use about thirty, but 
found so many that I liked, some clever drawings, 
others ridiculous, and some excellent puzzles, that my 
final number was fifty. I then numbered each illustra- 
tion with a good-sized figure and made a numbered 
list of the advertisements. This list of course was for 
mv own use. 

In the evening while v\^e sat by the fireplace eating 
fudge, I produced my clippings and gave several to 
each, together with a slip of paper bearing fifty num- 
bers, and a pencil, telling them to guess what the illus- 
trations advertised and to write the name of each beside 
the corresponding number on the slip given them. 



BOYS' AND GIRLS' PARTIES 187 

Interest was aroused at once and did not diminish 
throughout the evening. At last all were guessed but 
five or six, which were declared to be too puzzling. 
Then I read the correct list aloud. Some of the guesses 
were wrong, but not surprising. One picture of a 
smiling maiden eating bonbons was thought to adver- 
tise a particular brand of chocolates, while in reality 
it was her shining teeth disclosed to view which gave 
the kev to the illustration. Those with the double 
meanings caused the most amusement. As no compari- 
sons were made during the contest, the lists differed 
much. 

Another evening we spent in a pleasant way. I 
wrote on four slips of paper the initials of us four, 
one set on each slip. Beneath these I wrote a list of ten 
questions, as follows, leaving a space below each one: 
1. Description of this person? 2. What is his favorite 
amusement? 3. Chief characteristics? 4. Usual occu- 
pation? 5. Favorite books? 6. Chief virtue? 7. 
Greatest fault ? 8. Greatest talent? 9. Chief dislikes? 
10. Greatest ambition ? After giving each a card bear- 
ing a set of initials not his own, I asked each to fill out 
in the space below an answer to each question contain- 
ing three words, each word commencing with the initials 
on the card held, in their correct order. For illustra- 
tion, take the Initials of Charles Dana Gibson, and 
suppose we answer Question N"o. 4 : ** What is his usual 
occupation?^* Answer: '^Cleverly Drawing Girls.'* 
Much amusement was aiforded later in the evening 
when we exchanged cards^ and each read aloud what 



i88 THE GOOD HOU8BKBBPINO HOSTESS 

somebody else had written about another somebody 
else. Many were the sly but good-natured allusions to 
the little tricks and fancies known to be characteristic of 
the owner of the initials. In the coiner of each card I 
had made a little sketch and each now serves as a 
souvenir of a pleasant evening. 



J 



PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS 



PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS 

THE DICKER PARTY 
By Natalie Bell 

A^'DICKEB PARTY'' is an amusing function 
much in vogue the past summer at Bar Harbor 
and some other northern resorts. The guests bring 
from one to a dozen articles with which they are willing 
to part. These are carried about, well displayed by their 
respective owners, thus provoking conversation in plenty. 
*^What have you that I want ?'' says A, meeting his best 
friend B, who is decorated with a bunch of striped and 
dotted, plaid and plain neckties of every hue. ''That 
depends upon whether you have anything that Fll take,*' 
retorts B. And this is the sociable spirit of the dicker 
party. Each one examines the other's merchandise, and 
"dickers*' if pleased. Sometimes a certain article will 
be dickered from one to another until it has been the 
successive property of every person in the room. Many 
laughable exchanges occur. 

A popular artist was a guest at a gay little hotel 
where a dicker party was held and where everyone knew 
everyone else. So this gentleman brought to the fray 
at least half a dozen pairs of trousers, worn and weather- 
beaten, old hats and caps, and pipes galore; all of which 
he dickered away to the belles of the liouge in exchange 
for gay ribbons till he resembled a fluttering Maypole. 



iga THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

■n 

Stickpins, hatpins, handkerchiefs, laces, hats and wraps, 
collars, buttons and buckles, sashes, books, penholders, 
fans, vases and mugs, pincushions, bric-a-brac, anything 
and everything, even candy, appeared for exchange. One 
lady of quick and artistic impulse, who had just arrived 
at the hotel, took from her trunk a large flat hat she 
had intended to use for tlic sun and trimmed it gor- 
geously, in about ton minutes, with natural flowers and 
huge bows of i)ink and white tissue paper. It "took" 
immensely, and was soon dickered oflE for a cunning lace 
collar. The second owner appeared in it at breakfast 
the next day. 

Given a good-sized party of friendly and fnn-loving 
people, I cannot think of anjrthing more really amusing 
than the dicker party. Why could it not be given, by 
invitation, in aid of small charities? 

^ ft 

A HAP-HAZARD ROOF PARTY 

By Camilla J. Knight 

The invitations read, "A hap-hazard roof party/' 
and the hostess agreed to "furnish the hazard/' The 
guests were requested to AAear old clothes, and two of 
the boys responded so literally that most of the girls 
refused to be seen near them for a moment. As the 
liostess lived in the upper flat of a small apartment 
liouse, the roof was the most comfortable place for 
entertaining in the summer. A large old carpet was 
spread on the gravel, with as many seats as possible 
placed around it. 



PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS 193 

Coining up the stairs, the guests followed sign- 
boards pointing "To the half-way house/' as the flat was 
labeled, and there they met the hostess, who directed 
them to the "sunmiit/* On the roof door was the 
placard, "Consult dramatis personae first/' But it was 
a long time before they found it, because, in hunting, 
they stopped to read so many other signs, such as "Keep 
off the grass,'' "Ten dollars' fine if you pick the flowers/' 
"To the cave" (the fancy tower in front), "To the 
animals," "To the toboggan slide" (the stairway roof, 
also labeled "Out of repair"). 

Hammocks, chairs, parapets, chimneys, had appro- 
priate remarks on them, the steamer chair, for instance, 
bearing "This chair for the oldest guest." There were 
forty-three different signs, made with a brush and ink 
on wrapping paper. A unique document of considerable 
length, tacked on one of the chiijineys, told the story 
of the evening, and brought in the name of every guest, 
some in the style of ^Tiidden names/' others as puns, 
execrable or excusable. The title and beginning were as 
follows : 

•*Reid and Ponder 

"At the Ring-ing of the Belle, wc have come here 
from our Holmes, sweet Holmes, to- (K) night, to sit 
awhile side by Sidey, for a season of perfect Bliss, as 
we meet Mo'8(ch)eldom than we could wish," etc., etc., 
the names being written heavily in red ink. 

Finally reaching "dramatis personae/' the guests 
found their duties clearly defined. All entered Into the 



194 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

.. . . .i 

spirit of the thing, and made the affair a brilliantj 
success. A former resident and a recent bride were 
guests of honor. The acrobats performed vaudeville 
gymnastic feats; the mounted police immediately 
climbed to the top of the chimney ; the bureau of infor- 
mation, with his henchman at his heels, stalked about! 
with an air of profound knowledge; and the mistress 
of the robes naively inquired, "Shall I put the robes in 
the bureau ?" The keeper of the animals strolled about 
with a basket of animal crackers, when she was not 
guarding a corner where was a rare and curious collec- 
tion of toy animals of various sizes, races and colors, 
many of them showing signs of a "previous condition 
of servitude." 

The utmost tact had been used in assigning these 
parts, the hostess putting her own name down as one 
of the court fools. The trumpeters were supplied with 
tin whistles; the sky managers, with opera glasses, to 
look for the moon, which was scheduled to appear at 
9 o'clock. As it was the last of June, and in a northern 
city, the daylight lasted till then. But the moon was 
the only one who went back on us. She appeared on 
time, but almost immediatelv hid her face behind some 
light clouds, and refused to show herself again. 

The commissary-general and her assistants being 
ready to serve the refreshments, a lamp and a candle 
were brought up to aid in the proceedings. Plenty of 
lemonade in common glasses, and hundreds of sponge 
drops, were all the refreshment provided. Picnic plates, 
paper napkins and straws, besides being very cheap, 



J 



PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS iq5 

added greatly to the fun, which momently became faster 
and more furious. The acrobats volunteered assist- 
ance as waiters, one of them leading the way with the 
candle placed on the end of an old broom. 

Finally, a baby at home came suddenly to tlie 
recollection of one of the guests, and soon all were leav- 
ing. Someone said: "How are you ever going to get 
all these things down stairs?*' 

"Well, you might each *take something before you 
go,' '* suggested the hostess. 

The hint was sufficient. When she entered her 
parlor, a few minutes later, her eyes were greeted by a 
pyramid of chairs and pillows, and a crowd of young 
people pressed around to assure her what a delightful 
time they had had at what someone termed "your bur- 
lesque lawn party!'* 

A MONOTYPE PARTY 

By Lydia A. Smith 

A very pleasant and novel way of entertaining a 
small company for an afternoon is to give a monotype 
pariy. Let the hostess provide for each participant a 
piece of common zinc about five by six inches; and a 
bristol brush, about a No. 3, also a medium-sized sable 
brush; one large tube of ivory black oil paint will be 
enough for the company, and two or three sheets of 
monotype paper. If the latter is not obtainable, as is 
often the case, the picture can be printed on the back 
of cheap wall paper ; the less color, of course, the better. 
This seems to take the impression better than any other 



ige THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



k MEADOW IN MONOTYPE 



PARTIES FOR QROWN-UPS Z97 

paper^ as there is no glaze^ it is of the right weighty and 
is usually the mellow cream tint so desirable in the 
work, making a nice tone for the background. Some 
old, soft cloths are necessary for cleaning, and turpentine 
for thinning the paint. 

We used the large dining room table for working, 
covering it first with heavy manila paper, that there 
might be no accidents. First select the subject for repro- 
duction. This can be a photograph or print of any kind, 
the chief requisite being simplicity, as the main beauty 
is the balan^ of light and dark. The work must be 
in masses, and more suggestion than detail; in fact, 
there can be but very little detail in the picture. 

To commence work, squeeze out some of the black 
paint, either on a palette or plate, then paint the entire 
surface of the zinp, very lightly, and with the fingers 
rub this smooth and fine, making a thin, uniform tint 
or tone all over. Take out the high lights with a bit of 
cotton on the eiid of a stick or brush handle. For 
instance, if the subject selected is a moonlight scene 
with clouds, trees and a glimpse of water, first take out 
the high lights in the clouds ; if therq are dark shadows, 
paint them in, using the fingers to form them into 
cloiidlifce shapes. Next the trees against the back- 
ground or sky; these can be painted in masses suggestive 
of the growth, unless it is the case of an individual tree, 
like the pine, which is the principal object in the picture. 
Then it should be worked up with a little more detail. 
The foreground can be laid in with the brush and 
modeled with the fingers, taking out suggestive growth 



108 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



A UOONLIT I.AKB 



PARTIB8 FOR GROWN-UPS zog 

near the edge of the picture (this can be done with 
the point of a stick), cutting out grasses, etc. Most of 
the modeling is done with the fingers. Take out the 
reflection of the moon on the water in the same manner 
as the clouds; and the moon must be taken out also, 
l)eing very careful as to shape. To finish the edge, hold 
the plate or zinc with one hand and with the cloth over 
the thumb on the other hand, wipe out a tiny edge 
around the zinc, making rather a sharp line with the 
thumb nail. This gives a very nice finish, suggestive 
of a fine print or etching. Now our picture is ready to 
print and this must be done with a common clothes 
wringer. 

Fasten the wringer to the back of an old chair, if 
there seems to be no other available place. This may 
be inconvenient, but the effort in holding the chair 
down, and the wringer steady, usually tends to break any 
ice that may have existed in the company. First a heavy 
blotter, say nine by twelve inches, is caught by the edge 
in the roller of the wringer. The other edge should be 
held by someone to keep it firm and even. Upon this 
is placed the zinc, paii^t side up. Now the paper on 
which the picture is to be printed should be saturated 
with water. If the monotype paper is used it can be 
laid flat in a shallow dish of water and left for a few 
minutes; if the wall paper be used, it is best to lay it 
flat (printed side down) and wash the back over either 
with a sponge or a bit of absorbent cotton. When ready 
for printing, put the blotter on it for an instant to 
remove the superfluous water, then lift by tha comers 



300 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

and place on the painted zinc, being sure there are no 
wrinkles in the paper, which should be about eight by 
ten inches. Over the zinc and paper place the other 
blotter, holding it firm and steady. Bun the whole 



A FAVORITE SUEjJECT 



throug-h the wringer, thus transferring the pietnre 
painted on the zinc to the paper. Only one impression 
can be successfully printed, as the zinc has to be 
repainted for each picture. When through the wringer 
place on tlie table, remove blotter iind carefully peel ofl 



PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS aot 

the pi-infed paper. Plaop where it. will dry and the 
picture is ready for mounting. Thia can be done now 
or latei-. 

When ready to mount the picture place it face 
downward on a clean surface, dampen the back and put 



MORS UOONUOHT 

paste around the edgea {library paste U best). Then lift 
carefully and mount in the center of heavy cardboard. 
The picture will shrink quite a bit, hence the necessity 
for hea^ cardboard ; if a lip^ht weight is used, the picture 
will not look so well when mounted, as the siirinkage will 
draw the cardboard, unless it is heavy enough to stand 



208 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

the strain. Use a thick mat of unglazed, cream3''-toiied 
paper and a very simple oak frame. 

As a rule these little parties are very satisfactory, 
as each guest has a bit of his own work, and as there 
is no detail work to be carried out, the picture is easily 
made and is generally appreciated. These are pretty 
Christmas gifts. It is pleasant to have prizes awarded. 

A GROWN-UP CHILDREN'S PARTY 
By AuffUBtft Kortrecht 

Society has introduced as the newest way of having 
a* good time, the child^s party — ^not for the little folks, 
oh, dear, no, but for those grown-ups who wish to go back 
to pinafores and knickerbockers just for one night. 
The invitations must plainly request that the guests be 
dressed as children, so that there will be uniformity, for 
nothing dampens the ardor of a costume party like a 
sprinkling of persons not in character. A very fitting 
sentiment for the invitations is : 

"Backward, turn backward, Time, in your flight. 
Make me a child again just for to-night.^* 

If you receive an invitation to such a party, and for 
any reason cannot enter into the spirit of the thing and 
put off your long skirts and dress suit, then politely 
decline by all means, and save both yourself and the 
others the unpleasantness of having a misfit in the circle. 
If you do go, then make yourself a child as nearly 
as possible. The women must be little girls, hair down, 



^ 



PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS 203 

either curled or tied back in some youthful fashion, and 
dresses short ; and the men must be small boys, in short 
trousers or juvenile looking sailor suits. 

Tlie games for this party are the old ones you used 

to play, "stage eoach,^' "button, button, who^s got the 

button?'' etc. Recitations are suitable, and dancing, 

both fancy figures and the round and square dances. 

Anything that can accent the juvenile effect adds to the 

fun. If paper and pencil games are liked, the following 

is new and amusing: Each person draws a picture of 

some scene from Mother Goose, then passes the paper 

on to the right-hand neighbor, who looks at the drawing 

and writes below what he guesses it to represent. The 

guess is covered by folding a tuck in the slip of paper, 

leaving the drawing visible, and the next person makes 

his guess, keeping this up until everybody has guessed 

on each picture. A prize may be given for the artist 

whose picture received the most correct guesses, and also 

a booby prize makes the fun livelier. 

The supper table, of course, must have more elab- 
orate dishes than one for a party of real children, but 
the decorations should carry out the idea of the illusion. 
Any pretty centerpiece will do — a gorgeous doll in a 
bower of blossoms, a toy automobile filled with fruits, 
or just a flower piece, which is always in good taste. If 
rather handsome favors are to be given, silver spoons 
and little silver pushers are suitable; but more fre- 
quently tiny dolls for the little girl-ladies and chocolate 
cigars for the small boy-gentlemen are used. There 
should be small bibs at each place instead of napkins, 



SQ4 THB GOOD HOUSBKBEPING HOSTESS 

and if possible the china should be the gaily decorated 
patterns which are brought on for children. 

The popping mottoes which are seen at all sappers 
for the youngsters are very nice here, and the caps will 
be worn with almost as much joy as if it were all a 
novelty to the merrymakers. 

A CINDERELLA PARTY 
By Mabel Philpott 

A Cinderella dancing party may be made very 
enjoyable. The invitations might have a dainty French 
slipper painted in water-color in one comer, or simply 
the word "Cinderella/* After the guests assemble and 
before the dancing commences^ let them imderstand 
thoroughly the hour to cease: 10, 11 or 12. If 
not too late for them, 12 would be appropriate. 
Have a clock with a loud, clear gong which all can 
hear, and the moment it strikes, all dancers must take 
part in the slipper hunt. For this buy a pair of doll 
slippers, and hide one slipper in one room, while the 
mate is hidden in another. Guests should separate, 
ladies taking one room, gentlemen another. The 
youth who finds the slipper should go to the other room 
and find the maiden who holds its mate, and to these 
lucky ones should be given prizes. This couple of 
course will be partners at the supper which folIows.^ 
Among the rest distribute slippers cut from fancy stiff 
papers, only two of each kind being made. On one 
put this: 



PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS 205 

Ye prince, who hold this slipper in hand, 
Gk> make a search through this merry band. 
And find ye a maiden whose tiny shoe 
Is a mate to the one now held by you. 
And claim your Cinderella. 

On its mate put this verse : 

Ye Cinderella, who hold this shoe. 
Someone now is looking for you. 
So keep your slipper and patiently wait 
Till comes the prince who has found its mate, 
x\nd claims his Cinderella. 

Distribute these among the dancers, then serve 
Teireshments. As far as I know this is original and 
will have at least the merit of being "something new/^ 

FOR CARD PARTIES 

A very pretty color scheme was carried out in 
serving the refreshments at a card party. After the 
game was finished, the guests retained their seats, dainty 
lace and embroidered cloths were spread, and a candle- 
stick bearing red, green or yellow candles, according to 
the color of the room, was placed on each table. In the 
green room delicious fruit salad was served in hollowed 
out green apples; a sandwich of brown bread, cut eres- 
<ieiit shape, and a round sandwich of white bread with 
two olives were on the plate. In the red room the salad 
'Was served from red apple shells. In the yellow room 



2o6 THE GOOD HOUSBKBBPZNO HOSTESS 

oranges hollowed out held the salad, salted nuts were 
passed, tutti frutti ice cream was served in tall glasses. 
The plates for the red room had a red tulip, the yellow 
tulips found their way to their proper room, while those 
in the green room found a spray of giant mignonette 
on their plates. This was a most clever conceit and 
really very little trouble. — E. H. G. 

At a recent card party the hostess puzzled her 
guests by providing beans as tallies, instead of paper 
stars and hearts. Five beans were awarded to the 
winners, at the end of each game, and one to the losers, 
each one being solemnly warned to keep his beans care- 
fully in a little bag provided for the purpose. There 
was much conjecture during the games as to the ulti- 
mate use of the beans, but no hint was given until, as 
the tallies for the last game were being distributed, a 
maid brought in dainty bills of fare bearing the 
following astonishing information: 

Sandwiches^ S beans 

Coffee, 3 beans 

Almonds, 5 beans 

Olives, 5 beans 

Ices, 10 beans 

Cakes, 5 beans 

Immediately there was anxious diving into bags to 
count up accumulated gains, and more anxious calcula- 
tions by those who were short of funds as to what their 



PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS 207 



store would buy. Some of the fortunate, who had seven 
beans more than the cost of the entire bill of fare, 
generously offered to share with their poorer neighbors, 
but when it was found that even that would not treat 
everyone to the entire menu, the hosts offered to 
advance, for forfeit, enough to make up each deficiency. 
This was accepted, and later on the forfeits were 
redeemed, which was amusement enough for the rest 
of the evening. — Mrs. W. H. MacColl. 



A PUMPKIN PARTY 
By Mrs. W. A. Harvey 

We decorated square white cards with a huge 
pumpkin. The hostess who cannot draw can cut a very 
presentable pumpkin from orange paper and paste it 
on the cards. We wrote on each card: "The mam- 
moth pumpkin will be on exhibition at Mrs. B.^s from 
1 to 11 p. m. next Thursday. You are cordially invited 
to come and guess its weight.'^ We got the largest 
pumpkin we could find and a collection of medium- 
sized, ones. W^e made a record of the weight, the 
length and the girth of the big pumpkin. We carefully 
cut it open lengthwise, scooped it out and counted the 
seeds. We then filled it with sawdust and buried 
in it inexpensive souvenirs — orange-hued penwipers, 
needlebooks, pincushions, etc., wrapped in paper. We 
set the pumpkin on a mat of leaves on a small table 
and labeled "hands off.*' Each guest was given a card 



2o8 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

with a pencil attached, to record his guesses. Pumpkin- 
shaped paper weights, inkstands, emery bags and blot- 
ters pleased the prize-winners. The rest of the evening 
was spent in carving jack-o^-lanterns from pumpkins. 
The guest may be required to write a recipe for pump- 
kin pie, which will bring forth some wonderful flights 
of fancy. The supper was served from pumpkin dishes. 
Select round, deep pumpkins with a stem, choosing 
those of a pretty color, any shape; saw off the tops 
even so they may be put back on the pumpkins as 
lids, scoop out and line with parchment paper. 

TALLY CARDS 
By A. J. L. 

Some of the prettiest of tally cards are the red silk 
pincushions made in the shape of hearts. Large white- 
headed pins are used for the counts. Then, something 
on the same idea, and nice for souvenirs afterward, are 
tiny scent bags. These came to my notice at a card 
party given by Princeton students. The bags were 
very effective in their orange and black satin, and they 
were fastened to black paper tallies by bunches of 
orange ribbon. Japanese fans with strings hanging 
from them are pretty. Big glass beads are strung on 
the strings for counts. For the woman who doesn't 
like to sew, but is quick with brush and pen, there 
are almost unlimited possibilities. Among these pieces 
of water color paper cut and colored to represent slices 
of watermelon are odd and effective.' There are holes 



PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS aog 



pimched in the paper through which ribbons bearing 
tiny black penny dolls, or pasteboard seeds, can be 
fastened^ according to the maker^s taste. Then there 
are cards upon which clippings from magazines may 
be pasted. It is surprising what aid the advertising 
section lends for this purpose. A few lines added in 
ink make the little picture look almost like a pen and 
ink sketch. The birch bark tally is a pretty reminder 
of summer days. If the bark prove unruly, moisten 
and press with a hot iron. Then cut it into hearts 
and clubs, and use an ordinary card punch on the 
tally the night of the card party. 

A HAYSEED CARNIVAL 
By D. A. W. 

A new form of the fashionable barn party which 
has been so popular during the past year or two is called 
the hayseed carnival. It is the most informal function 
imaginable, as the invitations first of all go to show. 
These are written upon ruled paper and worded in the 
quaint phraseology and bad spelling which suggests 
Samantha Allen and Betsey Bobbett. Here is a short 
example : 

^'Marietta Summer, she that was a Smith, wants all 
her friends and nabers to come to the old red bam next 
Thursday night for a reglar jollification. Every naber 
as isn't sick-a-bed will be looked for. 

"P. S. Please don't hev on your Sunday fixins.^' 

The sports, which old people as well as young will 
find it hard to resist, consist of a series of contests in 



2X0 THS GOOD HOUSBKEEPINQ HOSTESS 

true country style. For the men there is a wood 
sawing contest, while the ladies pare potatoes or apples 
for a prize. Another sport in which hoth men and 
women join is match games of tit-tat-to on a blackboard. 
Husking corn, an old-fashioned spelling bee and a rous- 
ing Virginia reel are other features which make the 
rafters echo with ;fun. The refreshments are, of course, 
suited to the occasion. Wedges of apple pie, milk, 
doughnuts, cider, gingerbread and the like refresh the 
contestants when their labors are at an end. 

TABLEAUS 
By D. A. W. 

A party of girls summering on Long Island had 
great success with a vaudeville entertainment. The hit 
of the evening was a dream picture called "the reveries 
of a bachelor.*^ The scene represented a bachelor^s den. 
A man with pipe and book sat musing in an arm chair 
before the fire. After a moment or two music began 
to play very softly and one by one the Eeveries, always 
taking the form of pretty girls, drifted into the room. 
Each ghost disappeared after a moment or two to mtike 
room for another. The music was sometimes appro- 
priate to the picture. Annie Laurie was played as a 
lovely Scotch girl appeared before his chair. The Girl 
I Left Behind Me brought a charming maiden in the 
quaint dress of "before the war*^ times. Other visions 
were The summer girl of 1902, The New York girl, 
The Gibson girl. The Stanlaws girl, Gibson's "widow'' 
and The Quaker maid of Philadelphia. 



PARTIES FOR OROWH-UPS 



AN OU)-FASH10NEO CASTER UTIUZED A3 A FRUIT DISH 

A CHRYSANTHEMUM COTILLION 
By Mary Dawson 

Booms and corridors were decorated with banks 
of ehryaanthemums. Each of the young -womeQ invited 
fame wearing a different shade of gown. Chrvsanthe- 
imim shades only were worn, such as pink and white, 
ilark and light yellow, and tints which deepened into 



2xa THB GOOD HOUSBKEBPINQ HOSTESS 

or paled away into other tints as in the blossoms. 
Among the favors were shepherdess crooks, having 
bunches of chrysanthemums tied to the handles with 
streamers of ribbon ; stickpins in the form of the flower 
of the evening; bonbonnieres decorated with chrysan- 
themum designs and long-handled wicker baskets filled 
with the blooms. A lovely figure devised by the hostess 
was called the chrysanthemum arch. This was formed 
by men and girls arranged in two lines facing each 
other and holding long-stemmed chrysanthemums. 
Other couples then waltzed through the bower thus 
formed. A variation of the popular ^^egg figure'' was 
formed by substituting chrysanthemum flowers for eggs 
upon the floor, the object being to dance between these 
flowers without disturbing any. Ice cream was served 
in the form of yellow, white and pink "mnms.'' Cake 
was passed in lovely little boxes, each having a design 
of the flower on the cover. 

A WIGWAM DANCE 
By Mary Dawson 

The wooden platform erected for the dancing is 
draped and decorated to suggest the tepee. Blankets, bows 
and arrows, strings of beads, skin rugs, etc., are called 
into play ; care being taken not to cut off the air from 
the platform by the arrangement of these. A pretty 
background for the platform is formed of green boughs 
and vines. Then, scattered here and there about the 
grounds, are tiny wigwams, made from rawhides ar- 



PARTIES FOR QROWN-UPS 213 



mn* 



ranged over poles. The hides are painted in rude 
hieroglyphics or pictures and fringed at the edges. Each 
little wigwam contains some refreshment for the dance. 
For one dance the favors are bows and arrows, and a 
charming little figure follows in which all dance, holding 
these trophies. Long eagle feathers, made respectively 
from gold and silver enamel, are the gifts in another 
round. They are donned by the dancers and worn dur- 
ing the rest of the evening. Among the other things 
distributed are chamois or buckskin cushions painted or 
'^pyrographed" in appropriate designs; little bright 
beaded articles, presumably **made by the Indians^'; 
peace pipes, snowshoes, moccasins, wampum belts, pad- 
dles, fancy baskets and miniature toboggans. The pro- 
gram for the evening ends with a "great medicine 
dance.** In this the men join hands and circle round 
the girls, the girls afterward reversing things and 
dancing round the men. It is possible to serve ice 
cream from baskets of sweet grass and to have a table 
centerpiece for the supper in the form of a birch bark 
canoe filled with water lilies. Hatchet bonbonnieres 
filled with sweets are appropriate. 

FEBRUARY PARTIES 

By Mary Dawson 

All the young unmarried folk are sure to welcome 
the idea of a partner^s party, one of the latest in home 
entertaining. It affords an opportunity for any young 



214 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



man who feels attracted to a girl in the party to show 
his devotion by assisting her to win the ladies' game. 
At the same time the girl who desires to help any young 
man onward to the gentlemen's trophy may bend all 
her energies in that direction. 

The game is progressive. Six or more tables — ^the 
number of these varying according to the number of 
guests — are arranged as for any ordinary card function. 
Any game from jackstraws to whist can be played at 
the tables. A different one at each table is best. Pro- 
vide tallies for all the company. Lots are drawn before 
the opening of the game to decide where each competitor 
shall sit. One table should be arranged for four persons. 
Games are begun and finished by the ringing of a bell. 
Each person plays for himself, as single handed games 
are "required by the constitution.'^ At the end of each 
game the girl and man who have won the most points 
are declared partners. These two write their names on 
each other's cards and progress to the next table. No 
stars are used on the tallies, and the sole idea of the 
progression is to become partners as many tiniies as pos- 
sible with the same person. 

The man and woman who at the end of the rounds 
have written their names oftenest on each other's cards 
•are declared victorious. The young man carries off the 
gentlemen's prize, while the ladies' honors are bestowed 
upon the lucky girl. Much fun is added by choosing 
prizes of a sentimental character. The game is fol- 
lowed by a supper to which the guests walk in a pro- 
cession, led by the prize-winning partners. Each lady 



PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS 9x5 

is placed at table beside the gentleman with whom she 
%vas oftenest joined in partnership. 

A CIVIC EVENING 

A bright Xew York girl gave a pleasant little en- 
tertainment not long ago which she christened a "civic 
party/' Being a clever user of the kodak, she had in hand 
fifty views of New York city, all original work. The 
collection included public squares, civic buildings, libra- 
ries, banks, well-known corners of streets down town, the 
various park entrances, the Battery and Castle Garden, 
churches, philanthropic institutions. Each of the views 
was mounted upon a gray card and numbered. Pencils 
and paper were distributed and guests were asked to 
write down the name of each view as they supposed 
it to be. 

Although all of the players were residents of New 
York or visitors from neighboring cities thoroughly 
familiar with it, the person winning the highest score did 
not name correctly more than half the views. N"or was 
this the fault of the photographs themselves, which were 
exceptionally clear and true. It was simply evidence of 
the well-known fact that the average citizen is capable 
of living years in a town without observing it carefully. 

Try it, substituting your own town or the city near- 
est you. If you are not a photographer get twenty-five 
or fifty views from your book dealer or from magazines 
and newspapers. The names can easily be cut away and 
the photos mounted, numbered, etc. 



WEDDING PARTIES 



Xt 



WEDDING PARTIES 

A BRIDESMAIDS' TEA 
By Marjorie March 

FASHIOX dictates that the bride shall givp a gift 
to her bridesmaids. The groom gives a fare- 
well dinner to his ushers the night before the 
wedding; why not forestall their good time by giving 
a bridesmaids' tea in the afternoon? It can be made 
still more charming, an introduction to the wedding 
day, as it were, by the sending out of a few dainty 
notes by the bride herself to the one that is sure to 
obey her demands and to his friends, asking them to 
drop in for a cup of tea at 5 o'clock. Then for a 
few moments toward the end of the afternoon the 
bridesmaids and ushers can both pay homage to the 
queen of the morrow and to one another. 

If the house is to be decorated the next day for 
the reception, it would of course be folly to have elab- 
orate preparations; but great bowls of roses are simple 
in effect and require little arrangement. The present 
room can be arranged to be open so that the bridesmaids 
and ushers may be the first to view the gifts. As the 
whole affair should be informal to be enjoyable, the 
bride should be dressed in simple white, a rose in her 
hair and a few roses at her belt. Her mother should 
help her receive the few guests, and when all have 



220 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

a^rriyed the tea should be served. Tea, iced and hot, 
chocolate, salad sandwiches, ices and cakes are what the 
occasion demands. If the grounds about the house 
are accessible it is a pretty idea to have the tea spread 
on a table on the lawn. The most interesting feature 
of the afternoon to the bridesmaids will be the receiv- 
ing of their gifts. A pin is a very usual gift, and these 
can be pinned to the ribbon bows that tie a bunch 
of swaying roses that are placed at each bridesmaid's 
place. These bows of ribbon should be blue, for the 
bride must wear the traditional "something old, some- 
thing new, something borrowed and something blue,'* 
and the setting of the tea table can carry out the same 
symbolical idea very easily. A good deal of fun can 
be occasioned by the guessing which article on the tea 
table is the borrowed one. The whole afternoon will be 
in a way a quiet, pleasant way of saying good-bye to 
the maid who to-morrow will become a new self, so 
there is little to suggest in the way of entertainment. 
When a dozen people get together who are friends and 
have real feeling in their hearts, there will be no lack 
of spontaneous merriment, and if even that joy has 
its note of sadness, so much the better. 

A IIAUSPRAU LUNCHBON 
By Mary OawioQ 

One of the June brides who has returned from her 
wedding tour and gone to housekeeping had a novel 
luncheon given her the other day. It was called a 



WEDDING PARTIES a2i 



hausfrau luncheon. Table setting, favors, et cetera, were 
all suggestive of the future good housekeeping. Instead 
of having a formal floral centerpiece, the table was dec- 
orated with little wooden tubs from the toy shop filled 
with water and having water lilies floating in them. 
The place cards, when examined, proved to be little 
autograph cook books with the names of guests written 
upon the covers. The bonbonnieres were market baskets 
filled with candies, and instead of a corsage bouquet each 
cover had a tinv feather duster tied with a knot of 
ribbon. Each little detail was suggestive in some way 
of the central idea. The result was a piquante little 
table. 

A GOLDEN WEDDING 
By K. C. H. 

My parents' golden wedding anniversary occurring 
in August, I decided to celebrate by entertaining in their 
honor. "Our folks'' are the kind of self-sacrificing old 
people who think that whatever is done for them is 
"too much trouble/' so the affair was kept a secret from 
them. Our home was larger and better arranged, besides, 
I could entertain much more easily in my own home. 
I was doing my own work, my baby daughter was in her 
troublesome "second summer,'' and my trusted "better 
half unavoidably absent ; still, in spite of all these draw- 
backs, without a cent's expense (except for material) 
I entertained forty guests very pleasantly, and gave my 
dear old folks n dainty and agreeable surprise, that will 
give them pleasant memdrtefe until "memory is no more.'' 



m THB GOOD KOUSERBBPINO HOSTESS 

The invitations were written in gold ink^ and read 
tbos; 

Mrs. Blank — 
At home, three to five p. m. 
In honor of Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Chapin* 

Aug. 17, 1851— Aug. 17, 1901. 

I don't know whether this was according to form 
or not, but the invitations looked very pretty. They 
were simply my calling cards, and saved considerable 
time. The house was put in order, the baking done, 
and such decorations as I could muster were put in 
place. By chance I had a bolt of rich yellow crepe 
paper, which I draped on mantels, etc. Yellow asters 
and nasturtiums were the flowers used, and most beau- 
tiful they looked, drooping over slender vases, or bright- 
ening a bank of green. Having only what my garden 
afforded, the supply was, of course, limited. 

One of the decorative schemes I invented, and it 
proved a taking feature. In a secluded corner of the 
dining room I placed a small square table. On this I 
placed a large white, porcelain lined kettle. Around 
this I piled a few stones, green with moss, while a 
great quantity of asparagus was used to bank up around 
the kettle. A potted fern appeared to be growing just 
beside this mock spring. A friend gave me an old- 
fashioned gourd; this floated on the "spring/* which 
was filled with fine lemon-orange punch, ice cold, and 
most refreshing. All the guests, except some relatives 
of the family, were old peopFe/ most of whom had knelt 



WEDDING PARTIES 323 

by cool New England springs in their youth, and this 
reminder of bygone days was quite effective. • One old 
lady cried, saying that reminded her more of her "old 
New England home than anything else she had seen 
in Kansas." When the guests, old neighbors and fellow- 
pioneers of my parents, arrived, a carriage was sent to 
bring the aged bride and groom to my house "for 
dinner," as per arrangement. 

Such a jolly company ! xA. wonderful sadness came 
over me, seeing the aged and infirm putting aside the 
tales and memories of their strife and sorrows in this 
new land and recalling early pleasant memories and 
experiences. I had to put this feeling aside, however, 
and be a "smiling hostess." I have attended many 
gatherings, but never one of such genuine good feeling 
and real enjoyment. Each one seemed to feel that it 
was a gala day, and that nothing on his part must mar. 
the beauty of it. 

Refreshments were served on the lawn, consisting 
of ice cream and cake in considerable varietv, the rich 
gold cake being most prominent. Here the speeches of 
congratulation were made and the gifts presented. 

THE CELEBRATION OF WEDDING ' 
ANNIVERSARIES 

By Marjory Pelton 

One notices more and more in this country tTie 
fashion grow for celebrating the anniversary of a 
wedding. The observaag^ of a diamond wedding, when 



aa4 THB GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

two people have traveled life's road together for seventy- 
five years, has occurred at rare intervals, and has been 
the subject of national interest. Sometimes the dia- 
mond wedding is celebrated after sixty years of married 
life. That is incorrect, still it does happen, as if the 
aged couple had small hope of seeing the real diamond 
wedding. The golden wedding, a celebration of fifty 
years' happiness, is so frequent an occurrence that it 
speaks well for American longevity and the domestic 
peace of our nation. The earlier celebrations — ^the 
silver wedding to commemorate twenty-five years of 
married life, the china wedding for twenty years, the 
crystal wedding for fifteen A^ears, the tin wedding for 
ten years, and the wooden wedding for five years — are 
daily occurrences everywhere. 

There is another, the paper wedding, the first 
anniversary of a wedding day, which is occasionally 
observed among a group of young folks, who turn it 
into a merry-making. They come adorned with gro- 
tesque paper caps extracted from motto crackers and 
sometimes in entire costumes evolved from gorgeous 
crepe paper. The paper wedding offers an excellent 
chance for a masquerade party, when paper of all sorts 
may be utilized, from pert, pretty Yum- Yum with a 
Japanese parasol to a frolicsome youth representing the 
yellow kid in an impromptu suit made from yellow 
journals. There is the greatest latitude when it comes 
to gifts. The offering may be a dainty box of stationery 
or a book in the most artistic of bindings. For table 
decorations paper can be used lavishly, with paper table 



WEDDING PARTIES 225 



napkins^ and even one of those beautiful tablecloths in 
paper which can be found in Japanese stores. Globes 
for gas and electricity, or lamps, can revel for that one 
night in wonderful paper shades, and where an artistic 
taste would demand flowers and wreathings of smilax 
or the delicate asparagus vines, it yields to the harmony 
of things and substitutes paper blossoms as trtfe to 
nature as they can be found, with Japanese lanterns and 
lengths of paper ribbon for draping. If the decorator 
has fine taste, a house can be made really chal'ming 
with paper decorations, if they are kept in delicate 
colors which harmonize. At the paper wedding, as in 
all other celebrations, the bride ought to wear her 
wedding gown, and after the passing of only twelve 
months, it is possible for her to be surrounded by her 
bridesmaids in their year-old frocks. 

The young couple who, after five years' life 
• together, can celebrate the wooden wedding in the sum- 
mer and in the country can turn it into a delightful 
rustic affair. It may take the form of a picnic or 
evening lawn party. Birch bark can be utilized for 
writing invitations, for guest cards, menus and for the 
cover of a book in which the guests may write their 
names. Do not ruin the effect of an outdoor affair by 
spreading a tablecloth and using china or glass. The 
charm to a boarding school girl of a pound party is 
eating off a bare table and wooden plates. At a bake- 
shop purchase a liberal supply of thin wooden plates, 
and a rummage among friends ought to provide plQftfcr 
of old-fashioned steel knives and forks with woo^ell 



226 THB GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



handles. Serve everything on wood in chopping bowls, 
wooden trenchers, or in the thin, deep wooden trays in 
which a grocer sends lard or butter home. Let carving 
be done with wooden-handled knives, and serving be 
done with Avooden spoons or forks, such as are seen 
accompanying a salad. Cups and saucers or tumblers 
and silver teaspoons are the only things which may have 
to be substituted for anything less rustic. Simply keep 
everything wooden as far as it is possible, except in 
guests. One "wooden^' guest would spoil the jollity of 
a greenwoods feast. Wooden wedding gifts are inde- 
scribable in variety. There are writing desks, lead 
pencils, rocking chairs, potato mashers, or a clothes- 
horse. 

Occasionally, when the mistress of a home has a 
spacious, spotless, well-appointed kitchen, she sets the 
table for the tin wedding supper there and gives the 
affair an old-fashioned spirit, such as one sees at a 
real country Thanksgiving. If you celebrate in this 
style, serve old-style dishes — ^beans and brown bread, 
doughnuts, pie of every sort, cider, raised cake, pickles, 
buckwheat cakes with maple syrup, lifted straight from 
the stove to the table, baked apples and coffee. Set 
style wholly aside for once. Serve the food on bright 
tin pie plates, the coffee in a tin pot, pouring it in tin 
mugs. Tin spoons and tin forks are the proper thing. 
Light the table with candles, set in tin candlesticks, 
and let the centerpiece be old-fashioned flowers set in a 
large tin pan. A dance to the rollicking old tunes that 
can be evoked by a country fiddler from his treasured 



WEDDING PARTIES .. 227 

violin, may round out a merry evening, with old country 
games interspersed between the Yirginda reel and Thread 
the Xeedle. When it comes to the question of gifts 
for a tin wedding, my advice is to spend fifteen minutes 
in some big ten-cent store. 

The crystal wedding suggests that the married 
couple are growing mature and leaving frolic and kiss- 
ing games and dancing to a household of young folks. 
The crystal wedding is a parlor and dining room affair, 
where conventionality rules the day. The wedding 
gown may be donned again if it fits, but alas ! as May 
Irwin sings in that heart-breaking ditty of hers: 

^^The delicate waist of a day that is dead 
Will never come back to me.'' 

There will probably be throngs of guests, handshaking, 
a flower adorned tea table, music, chatter and an array 
of cut glass that will gladden the heart of a housewife. 
The china wedding may be conventional or not, as 
one desires to make it. The most delightful affair of 
tliis sort I ever attended was given by the mistress of 
an old-fashioned house, where we gathered for the 
afternoon with our sewing. There was gossip sucli as 
women love while the needle flies. Then there was an 
old-fashioned tea with delicious old-fashioned food, and 
we ate from rare china that one hundred and twenty 
years ago was a wedding present to our hostess's great- 
grandmother. It was a restful, pleasant, memoraWe 
party. Later, when the lamps were lit, our husbaidd 



228 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

ai*rived and cards were played, old songs were sung and 
old days recalled. Before leave-taking, we drank cider 
and ate loaf cake made from a recipe of fifty years ago. 
The silver wedding means often a large family 
gathering, with one or two sweet grandchildren added 
to the circle, a silvering touch in the hair, hopes for the 
future and a look back on the Joys and sorrows of 
twenty-five years. There is a table of gifts, which 
brings back the memory of the first wedding day, and 
the genial heartfelt wishes of long-tried friends. About 
the golden wedding there is a certain pathos. Amid 
all the festivity, in the gathering of children, grand- 
children, perhaps even great-grandchildren, and the 
offering of gifts, which cannot be bought for a trifle as 
in the merry-making days of j^outh — the hearts of the 
old bride and groom go back to the wedding day of 
fifty years ago, to the beloved ones who stood beside 
them ; to the old home, to youthful hopes and — ^all that 
has come between. Then the eyes grow dim with tears. 
The golden wedding is the last milestone passed in the 
path which has been trodden so long together. 



'I 



HALLOWEEN PARTIES 



• r 



«■• 



HALLOWEEN PARTIES 

HALLOWEEN FROLICS 
By Mary Dawson 

A HALLOWEEN" ontertainment on new and lively 
lines is a future party. The games, as sports for 
the fateful eve should, unveil the future. The 
mysterious character of the festival is carefully pre- 
served, but the divination is carried out in novel and 
nnexpected ways. For example, one good feature is 
known as the book of fate. This is an enormous volume 
made of two dozen sheets of wrapping paper folded in 
half. The cover is of pasteboard decorated with India 
ink witches or goblins holding will-o'-the-wisp lanterns. 
The title, "Book of Pate," appears on the cover in 
black lettering. Each sheet has written upon it one 
lestter of the alphabet, not arranged in rotation, but 
written at haphazard. Any letter may occur two or 
three times, if desired. The book, if consulted oii 
Halloween, will reveal the initials of the person one is 
to marry. To consult it the fate reader must be blind- 
folded and a wand or divining rod be placed in his 
hand. With the rod he turns over the pages of the 
book. He turns twice only. The letters upon the 
pages turned are the characters he seeks. From them 
the name of the future companion must be guessed. 

Then there is the Halloween pie, which is great 
fun, and not generally known. This can be played in 



ftaa THE GOOD HOUSEKESPINO HOSTESS 

two ways. For the first take a tub or basin and fill it 
with sawdust. Bury in the sawdust a number of slips 
of paper, each slip having written upon it a line of 
doggerel verse somewhat on the following order: 

"Curly hair. Eyes blue. Eoman nose. Tall and 
true.^' 

"Small. Blond. Merry eyes. Inclined to plump- 
ness. Witty. Wise.^^ 

"Tall. Dark. Somewhat sedate. Lovelv lashes. 
True life mate.'^ 

There should be just as many slips in the pie as 
there are guests in the drawing room, and all rhymes 
should be equally applicable to either sex. The pan is 
covered with a shelving pasteboard crust tinted to make 
it resemble nicely browned pastry. Each guest in turn 
dips out for himself a huge spoonful of the pie. The 
description found in it is that of the future mate. 

Another good game results if the pie is differently 
filled. For this tuck away in it a number of objects 
of many kinds and have some bright man or girl to 
act as fate interpreter. Each player spoons up a trifle 
for himself out of the pie, and the interpreter imme- 
diately explains its significance. The fun lies in the 
absurd interpretations, which are of course made to 
fit the case, and the little good-humored sallies to which 
the fate seeker exposes himself. 

A NUTTING PARTY 

The half dozen games on which a nutting party 
is founded can be arranged with a very trifling expendi- 



HALLOWEEN PARTIES 233 

ture of time and labor. The opening game goes to 
decide the question of whether or not each player is 
destined to marry. This is played by making a little 
heap of nuts in some portion of the parlor and giving 
your guests each a broad-bladed kitchen knife. To dis- 
cover his fate he must pick up one of the nuts upon 
the knife and run around the room with it so balanced. 
Ttvo minutes is allowed for this feat. If he fails to get 
the nut on the blade, or if it tumbles in the progress 
round the room, the one thus failing will never, marry. 
To, provide for each member of the party a descrip- 
tion of the man or woman to come most prominently 
into his or her life, hide here and there around the 
room a number of nuts of different sorts. The hiding 
should be done before the company arrives. Each man 
or girl is told to look about the room for a nut. But 
instead of trying to discover and collect as many of 
these nuts as possible, as in a peanut search, each person 
stops looking after discovering his or her first nut. This 
nut will give the character of the husband or wife-to-be. 
The hostess acts as interpreter, reading the signs of the 
shell, the size and so on. Thus the girl who finds a 
black walnut will marry a man of good nature, but 
uncultivated and decidedly rough in exterior. He will 
be large, dark, unconventional and totally unsuited to 
the drawing room. The man who finds a hazel nut 
may be on the lookout for a tiny woman, round of 
figure, with brown hair and eyes. She will be smooth, 
gentle, without great strength of mind, but agreeable, 
cultivated and so on. 



234 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



Another pretty feature for a nutting party is the 
nut tree, A small bush is used for the tree. From ita 
branches hang a number of gilded walnut shells. Each 
shell has been split with a sharp knife, the meats removed 
and a humorous fortune placed inside, after whieh the 
shells are glued together. Players are blindfolded in 
turn and given a pair of scissors. Each man or girl 
clips a nut from the tree. The shell when broken 
reveals the future, which may be expressed in verse. 

PISHING FOR FATB 

A good way to play this game is over a high screen. 
On one side of the screen, hidden from view, sits the 
hostess, with a huge basketful of odds and ends which 
may be humorously interpreted into fates. On the other 
side of the screen stand the players, each armed with 
a fishing pole constructed simply of a cane and a yard 
of two of ribbon. The players take turns in casting 
lines over the screen, and each as he casts is obliged 
to say what he desires to draw up. Thus he may say: 
"I wish to know my state in life, whether married or 
single.^^ Or "I wish to ascertain the personality of 
my future mate.^^ The voice and the wish expressed 
both act as prompters to the hostess. By them she is 
able to tell whether the line belongs to a man or a 
woman and to make some absurd reply to the question. 
She deftly attaches an appropriate object to the ribbon 
and gives a little twitch which stands for a bite. 

As a sample of the fateful articles to be pulled up, 
we will say that the young man who wishes to ascertain 



HALLOWEEN PARTIES 335 



the personality of his bride-to-be may draw up a wax 
doll. This shows conclusively that he will fall victim 
to a girl of pretty face but not distinguished by mental 
capacity. If a man draws up a needlebook or a spray 
of bachelor^s buttons he will of course remain a bachelor. 
The girl who pulls up a thimble is destined to old maid- 
hood. She who draws up a bag filled with paper mon^y 
will marry a rich man or receive a legacy. An empty 
pocketbook with a rose in it shows for the recipient a 
future of happiness and poverty. 

To find out the length of time which will elapse 
before e:ac'h member of the party is engaged, twelve 
candles, one for each month in the year, are lighted 
and arranged upon a table or the edge of the piano. 
Each young person is blindfolded in turn and told to 
blow out the candles. Three minutes is allotted for 
performing this feat. Tlie number of candles remain- 
ing lighted when the three minutes have elapsed repre- 
sents the number of months which are to intervene 
before the engagement takes place. If any man or girl 
fails to blow out a candle he or she will surely be 
bachelor or old maid. The girls who are thus destined 
to single blessedness can receive a match safe or other 
ornament in the form of a tabby, accompanied by Pope's 
apt and familiar couplet: 

"How happy is the lonely vestal's lot. 
The world forgetting, by the world forgot.'' 



The doomed bachelor is given a "Hussif," to aid, 
it is explained, in sewing on his buttons. 



236 THS GOOD H0U8£KEEPINQ HOSTESS 



A HALLOWEEN PARTY 

By Aufusta Kortrecht 

The invitation I received wag a tiny card with 
quaint lettering: "Come on Witch Ifight to ye House 
at ye Sign of Ye Black Cat"; and in one corner the 
hour and date, and the address of my hostess. 

Five or six of ns went in a body, and after we turned 
into Lindsay street, there was no missing the house we 
sought, for the sign of the black cat was to be seen afar 
off. It had been made of a big square pasteboard bonnet 
box; queer cat shapes were drawn in pencil on each of 
the four sides, then cut out with a sharp knife, and 
the openings pasted over with tissue paper from the 
inside. With a strong candle burning inside, the eats 
showed vaguely in the clever homemade lantern. The 
hostess told me afterward that she had experimented 
with black paper but had not found it thin enough to 
show the light through, and that therefore these cats 
were green and yellow. Each gate post bore one of these 
lanterns, while the front porch was hung with jack-o'- 
lanterns, made from pumpkins, of course. 

The large transom of the front door had a curiously 
contorted cat cut from black paper or calico, and pasted 
on. The hall was well lighted to show this up to the 
quests approaching along the walk ; but the rooms them- 
selves were all in half dark, being illuminated only by 
lanterns like those on the gate posts. 

We were greeted by two weird figures draped in 
white, and wore shown to the dressing rooms and invited 



HALLOWEEN PARTIE3 237 

to deck ourselves in sheets and pillowcases. The hostess, 
the white figure which went with the ladies, showed us 
how to wrap the sheets around us and fasten them firmly 
with pins and pieces of tape, so that we were covered 
and yet had our arms somewhat free. White masks 
hid our faces, and pillowcases were fastened on top of 
our heads and left hanging down at the back. The white 
curtains of the dressing room were hung with bats, cut 
from black calico, and we were told to pin one of these 
on eacH of our sheets to distinguish us from the men, 
w^hom we found draped as ourselves, but wearing black 
snakes wriggling down their fronts. 

It was very weird when we gathered again in the 
dim drawing room. The candles in the lanterns gave 
just sufficient light to show the ghost-like forms and 
the white hangings which were everywhere decorated 
with black calico snakes, lizards, bats, frogs, owls and 
catB. There were queer stuffed birds about in the cor- 
ners ; and live black cats of various sizes glided in and 
out, rubbing themselves against the white-robed guests. 
Dancing created much merriment for a time, the 
couples trying to discover each other^s identity, and 
having all they could do to manage their flowing dra- 
pery. In the rest time the folding doors suddenly flew 
open, and a strange sight presented itself. The room 
beyond was inky black except for the red light burning 
before a little tent. (Eed fire burning in a tin pan; 
can be bought at any fireworks dealer's.) The tent was 
open, and inside it sat a witch, high red hat, broomstick 
and all. In front of her on the ground was an enormous 



238 TH£ GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

pumpkin, scooped out and filled with tiny pumpkins, the 
latter made of cotton covered over with j^ellow crepe 
paper and tied with baby ribbon, light green for ladies, 
dark green for men. The witch chanted out an invi- 
tation to us, and we went in in turn and received a little 
pumpkin, she bestowing each one with muttered incan- 
tations. 

Then the door shut the witch from view, the lights 
went up in the drawing room, and we had a hilarious 
time opening the pumpkins and examining our fortunes. 
Mine had a pair of tiny doll overshoes, and the verse: 

"Your hands will play the typewriter and your dainty 

feet 
• Will daily need protection from the rain and slush 

and sleet.'' 

The hostess said that with a little ingenuity any 
number of these verses and favors could be made. Some 
of the funniest were these: 

A tiny United States flag for a lady : 

"You will be the president's wife. 
And in Washington lead a gay life/* 

A thimble for a lady: 

"Whether in single or married bliss. 
Sewing's your fortune — so please take this.'* 

A little bunch of scarlet silk floss tied with a blue 
ribbon, for a man : 

"This tress was cut from the daintv head 
Of the very lady you will wed." 



HALLOWEEN PARTIES 239 

A penny for a man : 

^^Listen well to the words of the witch : 
'Earn plenty of money and you^ll be rich/ ^' 

A brass button for a man : 

^Tou'll both a soldier and sailor be. 
And gallantly fight on the dark blue sea/* 

After the fortunes were all examined we were con- 
ducted once more to the dressing rooms and the sheets 
and other draperies removed, and then we went in to 
supper. This was a bounteous feast of the good things 
of the season : the fall fruits, popcorn, gingerbread and 
eider. A wooden bowl of nuts was placed at each plate, 
with a pair of crackers convenient. Suddenly there 
was a little shriek of surprise ; one girl had opened an 
English walnut and found, instead of a kernel, one of 
the funny and uncanny worms which the Japanese cut 
out of vegetable ivory. They are wriggly things, and 
the shock was great. Most of the nuts were normal, but 
there were enough bewitched ones to keep the excite- 
ment high. One had a tiny black doll not an inch long; 
some had bits of candy; some brass rings with glass 
stones. These nuts were all English walnuts, and the 
hostess told me she had carefully cut them in half with 
a sharp knife, removed the kernel, put in the prize, and 
glued the shells together again so that the opening could 
not be detected. 

Finally I got a nut with nothing but a bit of folded 
paper in it. On it was written : "Don't tell the others.*' 
Then came some queer characters which I decided to be 



240 THB GOOD HOU8BXBEPING HOSTESS 

words written backward, and When I slipped quietly off 
to the mirror in the dressing room I made them out to 
be: "Go on the midnight stroke and dig under the 
piano for a mighty prize/' The backward writing is 
done this way : Lay a carbon paper on the table dupli- 
cating side up, then two pieces of thin white paper on 
top and write with a hard pencil on the top piece. This 
will leave the words written backward on the under 
paper. 

It was still half an hour before midnight, and I 
kept wondering how I was to dig under the piano. I 
carefully examined the spot specified, without saying 
anything about it, but thought it unwise to call for a 
spade and go to work on the hard wood floor. 

We played all the time-honored Halloween games 
and triclcs, and all the time I was thinking but could 
come to no conclusion. As the clock struck 12 we were 
all in the front, hall, and what was m\^ surprise to see 
the whole party rush to the drawing room and to the 
piano. Every last one had had a paper with the same 
directions, and each one thought the secret his alone. 
When the first astonishment was over, we saw that a 
number of little pails and shovels had been placed on 
n white cloth spread beneath the piano, and amid the 
laughter and good-natured pushing we crept under and 
dug our prizes out of the soft sand. They were all just 
filiko, favors to take home — paper bonbonnieres shaped 
like pumpkins. 

Soon after we were on our way home, voting the 
part}" the very liveliest and best we had ever attended. 



HALLOW£SN PARTIES 241 



A RBAL HALLOWEEN 

If possible, hold the Halloween festivities in a baxn 
or large kitchen, in the latter case setting the table and 
having certain of the games there. On All Saints' day, 
two hundred years ago, every household built its bonfire 
at rdghtfall. They made a girdle of flame about the 
hills of Scotland. Indoors the house was lighted by 
torches and lanterns till midnight, when the fairies 
were supposed to be abroad. Strange methods of divi- 
nation were resorted to by young and old. 

Keep constantly in mind that the ancient object 
of the day was the peering into the future. If possible, 
have a bonfire. Material may be hoarded a few weeks 
ahead. Set a few small boys to the blissful job of piling 
on fresh fuel. Deck the walls of the bam or kitchen 
with branches of spruce and pine, and among them 
hang on strong wire rods a splendid array of jack-o'- 
lanterns or pumpkin lanterns. If possible, contrive 
somewhere about the house a dimly-lit cozy comer or 
impromptu booth where a woman versed in palmistry 
may tell of the future and hint at the past. In every 
fireplace light a crackling wood fire, and in the kitchen 
have ready the properties necessary for a real Halloween : 
baskets of apples, balls of jslth, corn ready for the 
popper, and a hoard of nuts. 

There are so many time-honored games for Hallow- 
een that they can scarcely be crowded into one evening's 
entertainment. Nobody knows how ancient is the game 
of bobbing for apples, but it certainly never grows old. 



243 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

Fill a tub nearly to the brim with water and into it put 
a dozen rudd}^ apples. Place in the heart of four apples 
a ring, a ten-cent piece, a thimble and a button. Replace 
neatl}' the apple cube which has been cut out for this 
admission, and the enthusiasm of the bobbers will be 
heartier with the knowledge of the lottery. The game 
may be varied for the other guests by holding a fork 
between the teeth, clasping the hands behind the back, 
trying to pierce an apple by dropping the fork. Apples 
may be utilized in another way by tying one to a string, 
hanging it in a doorway, and still with the hands behind 
the back trying to take a bite from it. It is so difficult 
a "stunt" that it is safe to offer a few prizes to the guests 
who succeed. Long apple parings tossed over the shoul- 
der generally will curl into some shape which predicts 
the initials of the future loyer. 

Imagination has full play when the girls search 
for the profession of the man they will marry by gazing 
at the white of an egg dropped in a glass of water. The 
egg will take very queer forms, and it is not hard to 
picture a ship, a church, an easel, a railroad train, a 
bridge, or a printing press. There is the perilous custom 
of following through a dark cellar a ball of yarn, which 
will lead to somebody's lover. The end may be satisfvinff 
onough to make up for the trip. In a room as dark as 
twilight, a girl may comb her hair and eat an apple 
before a mirror with a sweet certainty that out of the 
darkness will steal a reflection of the man she loves. 

The young men can name and roast chestnuts for 
the girls around whom fancy hovers. If a chestnut 



HAIXOWBRN PARTIB8 243 



should explode and jump from the hot coals^ that girl 
had better be left to single blessedness: it is the girl 
whose chestnut roasts quietly and steadily who will make 
married life harmonious. If a suflSeient number of 
cabbage stalks can be procured and planted a few days 
before Halloween, the pulling of them when blindfolded 
provides a lively half-hours fun. A "kale stock^^ is 
large in prophecy. If it pulls hard, the lover will be 
hard to win, and courtship and married life may not 
be wholly happiness; if easily, the future is serene 
enough. The shape and size of the kale stock prophesy 
the figure, of the future husband or wife, and if there is 
plenty of earth about the roots it means riches. A 
candle may be selected and named for as tnany sweet- 
hearts as one possesses — a Halloween guest, maid or 
man^ is supposed to have a lively preference for several. 
Set the candles lighted in an open window. The one 
which longest resists the gusts of wind denotes the lover 
who till death will remain faithful. The Scotch test 
called *luggies^^ is a favorite in all Halloween games. 
Beside the hearth are placed three basins ; one has clean 
water in it, another muddy water, the third is empty. 
The youths who would know their fate are led blind- 
folded to the table groping for the basin, dipping their 
hands in the first one they reach. If it is the clean 
water, the future bride or groom will be young and 
handsome ; the muddy water tells of a wedding with a 
widow or widower, none too youthful or attractive; the 
empty basin foretells single blassedness. 

The American palate takes none too kindly to 



244 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



haggis, sowens, cock-a-leekie or oat cake, so- a good sub- 
stitute would be a hearty country supper served around 
the kitchen table. The fall fruits will provide a center- 
piece of rare coloring. Cut a great pumpkin into basket 
shape and scoop out the inside. Into the shell heap rosy 
apples, green and purple grapes, pears, oranges and 
bananas. One may choose an excellent menu from 
brown bread and baked beans, cold turkey, chicken pie, 
fried sausages with hot buckwheats, head cheese, cold 
ham or corned beef hash for a first course. Pumpkin 
pie, apple pie, doughnuts, waffles and maple syrup, baked 
apples and cream, old-fashioned raised cake, gingerbread, 
cookies or some puddings, such as brown betty or pan 
dowdy, will fill in the sweet course. Cider and coffee 
would be suitable for liquid refreshments. Plenty of 
nuts served in a wooden chopping bowl may be handed 
around with the fruit to "top off with'' as in real coun- 
try hospitality. 

The fun of a Halloween entertainment may be 
largely enhanced by place cards at the supper table. 
These ought of course to deal with games of fortune and 
that gazing into the future which belongs to All Saints' 
day. The most effective thing would be ragged edged, 
rather rough cards. Keep the decorations in strong 
black and white effects, using dense India ink as a 
medium; it flows admirably from the pen and works 
well with a brush. The range of decorations is wide ; you 
may have witches riding on broomsticks, the black cat, 
blinking owls or flitting bats, four-leaved clovers, wish- 
bones or the new moon for luck — indeed, anything that 



HALLOWEEN PARTIES 245 

signifies portents and fortune, whether good or bad, A 
quotation adds largely to the merit of the occasion. To 
save searching, a number of quotations are here appended 
suitable for a Halloween party. By the way, Shakes- 
peare will be found rich in sayings of weird and ghost- 
like nature; Macbeth, Hamlet, and Eomeo and Juliet 
being especially good hunting grounds. Here are some 
culled from various sources : 

''The iron tongue of midnight hath told twelve.'' 

''If you had any eye behind you, you might see more 
detraction at your heels than fortunes before you.*' 

"I can call, spirits from the vasty deep.*' 



^f you can look into the seeds of time, 
And say which grain will grow and which will not.^ 



"It was the owl that shrieked, the fatal bellman 
Which gives the sternest good-night." 

"There's husbandry in heaven, 
Their candles are all out.'' 

There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio^ 
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy." 

'^No witch hath power to charm. 
So hallowed and so gracious is this time.'' 



tc 



246 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

"How now, you secret, black and midnight hags, 
What isH you do ?" 



Show his eyes and grieve his heart, 
Come, like shadows, so depart/' 



"The owl, for all his feathers, was acold/' 

"The bat takes airy rounds on leathern wings. 
And the hoarse owl his woful dirges sings/' 



(( ? 



Tis the witching hour of night, 
And the stars they glisten, glisten 
Seeming with bright eyes to listen. 
For what listen they?" 



c< 



A farmer traveling with his load. 
Picked up a horseshoe on the road. 
And nailed it fast to his barn door 
That luck might down upon him pour. 



"Some there be that shadows kiss ; 
Such have but a shadow's ])liss/' 



>> 



6(\J 



Some have mistaken blocks and posts 
For specters, apparitions, ghosts. 
With saucer eves and horns." 

heavens, that one might read the book of fate 
And SCO the revolutions of the times/' 






KAIXOWBBN PARTIES 247 

"'Oh, could we lift the future's sable shroud !'' 

"Fortune is merry. 
And in this mood will give us anything/' 



C< X 



Tis the sunset of life gives me mystical lore. 
And coming events cast their shadows before/' 

*^Thi8 day we fashion Destiny, our web of Fate we spin/' 

^^ho can answer where any road leads to ?" 

"There swims no goose so gray 
But soon or late 
She finds some honest gander 
For her mate/' 

''This is the iairy land, spite of spites, 
We talk with goblins, owls and elvish sprites/' 

A HALLOWEEN COBWEB PARTY 

By M. D 

A Philadelphia girl had an inspiration for her 
October 31 party. This was a cobweb party, changed 
to fit the requirements of Halloween. She- took cords 
of different shades and colors, one for each guest, and 
wound them over furniture, doorways, et cetera, through 
the different rooms on the lower floor. At one end 
of each string she tied an envelope containing a "for- 



248 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

tune." The red, yellow and brown cords, with all the 
varying tints of these colors, had fortunes for the men, 
while white, blue and green, turquoise, emerald and the 
like denoted the envelopes for the girls. All cords began 
in the drawing room, where each fbrtune hunter selected 
his or her own according to fancy. Although the cords 
were never knotted or tied in anv wav, the maze and 
tangle was so dense at times that .the sport of the 
evening lasted a good two* hours. No one was allowed 
to touch the fate thread of another, player. This regu- 
lation added greatlv to the difticultvand the fun. The 
fortunes were concocted in the fertile brain of the hos- 
tess. When all the envelopes had been discovered the 
young people assembled and the prophecies were read 
aloud. An amusing little trick was perpetrated by the 
girls upon the men. One of the girls appeared in the 
parlor costumed as a gypsy and offered with much 
ceremony to tell each yoimg man the name of his future 
helpmate. She dealt out cards or shook the grounds 
in a teacup, making nuiny calculations which meant 
nothing whatever and asking various questions. Each 
man in turn received a sealed envelope which he was 
warned not to open until the fortune telling was 
over. When the envelope was finally opened each man 
found his own name upon a card preceded by the 
word "Mrs.'* 



HALLOWEEN PARTIS 



HALLOWEEN SALAD {Page lg>) 



SUGGESTIONS FOR HALLOWEEN 



The fireplace and mantel are attractively decorated 
with products of the field. The first step toward dress- 
ing the mantelpiece is to get a board the size of the 
shelf in order that hammer and tacks may be used with 
impunity ; after this it is a simple matter to arrange fhe 
fringe of com. In the center of the space over the 
mantelpiece is the silhouette of an owl. Anyone with 
the least skill in drawing could draw the outline of an 
owl on water color paper and tint it with brown water 
color paint. The candle shades are clever imitations 
of jack-o'-lanterns made of orange colored crepe paper, 
with eyes, now and month of tissue paper. 



250 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

An appropriate centerpiece for the Halloween 
supper table may consigt of small papier mache jack-o'- 
lanterns and splendid chrysanthemums arranged alter- 
nately around a mammoth pumpkin carved into a basket. 
The basket is filled with the shells of mandarin oranges, 
and is passed to the guests. Each shell contains an 
article — a penny, a heart, a bachelor's button^ tiny china 
cat, etc., etc. These are supposed to carry a meaning 
prophetic of the recipients future. 

For the salad, take a fine, large white head of 
cabbage, cut out the center and cut the sides into decided 
points. With cloves make eyes, nose and mouth oa 
each side. Fill the center of the cabbage with nut and 
apple salad. Serve on a large platter garnished with 
lettuce leaves. 

Fill with a mixture of two cups of celery cut fine, 
one dozen Avalnut meats blanched and chopped fine, the 
grated rind of one orange and one cup of tart apples cut 
in dice, with mayonnaise dressing colored green. Gar- 
nish with a tomato cut to look like a rose. 

Chestnut Burs — ^Two ounces of chocolate, four eggs, 
one-half cup of milk, one teaspoon of vanilla, one-half 
cup of butter, one and one-half cups of sugar, one heap- 
ing teaspoon of baking powder, one and three-fourths 
cups of flour. Dissolve the chocolate in five tablespoons 
of boiling water. Beat the butter to a cream, gradually 
add the sugar, beating all the while ; add the yolks, beat 
again, add the milk, then the melted chocolate and 
flour. Give the whole a vigorous beating. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir them carefully 



HALLOWEEN PARTIES aji 

into the mixture, add, the vanilla and baking powdur. 
Mix quickly and lightlj', turn into a square buttered cake 
pan, bake in a moderate oven forty-five minutes. When 



A HANTBI. DECORATSD FOR UAU^WSBN 

coW cut into Bquares with a sharp knife, trim squares 
into balls, 'lall balls in icing colored a delicate green, 
then in gra^d cocoanut colored green, and pile them 



252 THE GOOD HOUSEKEBPIKG HOSTESS 

on a platter or in a cake basket. The cocoanut is easily 
colored by tinting about three tablespoons of water a 
good green with vegetable coloring paste. Mix in the 
cocoanut, spread on a large platter to dry before using 
on the cakes. 

" Chestnut Parfait in Apple Shells — Select bright 
red apples of medium and uniform size, cut off the tops, 
scoop out the inside carefully with a silver spoon, notch 
the edges with a silver knife and put the prepared shells 
in cold water until ready to serve. 

Chestnut Parfait — Beat yolks of eight eggs imtil 
light, add one cup of maple syrup. Place the mixture 
on a slow fire until the eggs have thickened enough to 
make a deep coating on the spoon. Turn it into a bowl 
and beat it with a whip until cold ; it will then be very 
light. Add a teaspoonful of vanilla to the custard when 
it is taken from the fire. When the custard is cold add 
a pint of cream whipped to a stiff froth. If any liquid 
has drained from the cream, do not let it go in. When 
this is ready to go in the freezer, add a cup of boiled 
chestnuts cut in dice. Roll in powdered sugar, so each 
piece will be dry and separate and not sink to the bot- 
tom. Stir in quickly and pack the freezer immediately 
in ice and salt for three hours. Serve in apple shells. 



r:f' 



HALLOWEEN PARTIES 



HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 



HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 

A SPBLLINQ BEE 
^y Mrs. Dan Hon 

THAXESGIVING morning some club women in 
Arkansas sent their friends invitations to an 
old-time supper and spelling bee. Each guest 
was presented with a dainty card, tied with pink and 
green, the club colors, bearing the best wishes of 
"ye hostesses/^ The bill of fare consisted of turkey, 
Opossum, salad, pickles, jelly, mince pie, fruit, cako 
and coffee. Supper was served early. Appropriate cen- 
terpieces .were made for each of tlic three tables of 
pumpkins cut in halves and polished, and then by the 
aid of a sharp knife the edges were scalloped and each 
ridge was carved in tiny sprays of flowers. The bas- 
kets thus formed were each pkced on a mat of crinkled 
tissue paper, and filled to overflowing with oranges, 
rosy-cheeked apples and grapes. Candles were used 
to light the tables. 

After supper, someone was selected to act the part 
of "Squire Hawkins," while two more "chose up." The 
words were dictated from Webster's spelling book, 
better known as the "blue back," and spelled according 
to the old-time method. The first prize was a 'T)lue 
back" spelling book, while a dunce cap and a bag 
of peppermint candy were given the one who first 



258 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



misspelled a word. The spelling bee was enjoyed by 
doctors, lawyers, editors, teachers, merchants, clerks^ 
misses in their teens, matrons, grandmothers, and one 
great-grandmother. 



THE THANKSGIVING TABLE 

By Marie Eulalie Moran 

To begin with the napery, a cloth patterned with 
leaves, chrysanthemums or nut burs is most desirable 
for this festival, but one with a snowdrop or other 
unobtrusive geometrical design may be used with good 
effect. Then comes the question of the centerpiece, 
whether it shall be fruit or flowers. Both possess charm- 
ing decorative possibilities, but sentiment and a taste 
for symbolism will decide in favor of the fruit in many 
homes. 

The description of two centerpieces planned by 
clever women for their tables on Thanksgiving day 
will probably be welcomed by the housewives who are 
cjeeking suggestions for the novel arrangement of fruit. 
The first woman, who is an artist and spends her vaca- 
tions in the mountains, has made a low, oval-shaped 
basket of pine cones with a wide arched willow handle 
to hold her fruit. A wreath of glowing red bittersweet 
will encircle the basket, and a length of the vine and 
a cluster of thistle puff balls will adorn the handle. 
The second woman has made a cornucopia of plaited 
grass. She is going to have brightly tinted vines and 



HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 259 

cluslcy terries around it, and have its wealth of hutiimn 

f T'^i'ts spill out upon the table. Either of these designs 

is. Sir charming centerpiece; so is a large Indian canoe 

pilecl high with fruits, wuth the grapes and vines 

hanging over its sides. This canoe may be woven of 

gjrsk.Ga or be made of bark or leaves. 

If flowers are to decorate the table, choose them 
from the hardy varieties of the season. The chrysan- 
tViemum, of course, heads the list. Any scheme of color 
inay be carried out with the aid of this flower, which 
oft'ors the decorator snowy white, pale sulphur and bril- 
liant yellow, all the shades of bronze and red, delicate 
lilac and pink blooms, in clusters or feathery pompons, 
or tightly curled balls. But unless willing to have a tall 
€enterpiec3, put the vases of chrysanthemums at the 
corners of the table, or use another flower ; these proud 
blossoms are sorry objects when arranged in a low, com- 
pact mound ; they are then as characterless and unlovely 
as a crinkled paper mat. Cosmos, roses or carnations 
are also appropriate, and the autumn grains, berries 
and leaves. 

For the guest cards and dinner favors there are 
many quaint and dainty devices. Cards cut out and 
painted to represent the fall fruits or vegetables and 
lettered in gold are very attractive. Thesa cut-out 
shapes are pasted on the tops of small boxes of bonbons 
for sou^^enirs. A very droll little favor is a round box 
of candy beans, the top ornamented with a Puritan 
hat. The hats are made of black paper and are pasted 
on the box tops — ^they should be the exact size of the 



rj 



a6o the good housekeeping hostess 

box. Letter "Thanksgiving/^ and the year, around the 
hat brim in gold. A little practice and experiment ^^ill 
enable one to become expert at making these little hats. 
Deftness is required in rolling up the tall crown and 
pasting it neatly. When dry, it is joined to the wide 
brim and a cord is tied around it. Any picture illustrat- 
ing the Puritan costume will be a sufficient guide in 
making them. 

When cake is a part of the Thanksgiving dinner, 
give your guests a surprise by serving it as a pumpkin 
or turkey. A firm cake a day old should be used, so 
it will not break in modeling. The easiest way of 
making the pumpkin is to bake the cake in two fluted 
pans, and when cool join them together in the center 
with jelly, taking care to join the flutes exactly. Then 
with a brush coat the entire cake with jelly, dust with 
sugar and let dry. Ice with almond paste or cream 
fondant, melted as for dipping candy. This icing is 
colored orange. Insert a stem and leaves in the pump- 
kin. Or a large cake may be built up tall and modeled 
with a sharp knife into pumpkin shape and then iced. 
Orange marmalade is a nice filling for this cake. For 
the turkey a large square loaf or layer cake is needed. 
With a knife model it to look as much like a roast turkev 
as possible. Icing the turkey is a very particular piece 
of work. For the light tints, mix saffron and caramel 
colorings with the white icing and then shade Mr. 
Turkey up with caramel to make his skin look crisp 
and brown. If the plain dark caramel is too dull a 
brown, add a few drops of red and saffron to brighten 



HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 261 

it. While the icing is still soft, take a coarse-meshed 
iirire strainer and press all over it to imitate the grain 
of tlie turkey^s skin. Two sticks of candy are then put 
ixL "the cake legs for bones, and frills of white paper 
tietd around them with ribbons. Parsley may be used 
as a garnish if intense realism is desired. 

A BACHELOR'S THANKSGIVING DINNER 
By Hester Price 

It seems only fair that someone should take the 
trouble to plan a suitable Thanksgiving dinner for those 
men who are thrown upon their own resources on the 
day that one always associates with family gatherings, 
a dinner equally available, too, for families. In getting 
the desired effect, much will depend upon the quality 
and the proper laying of the cloth. An ideal bachelor's 
dinner is elegant, but rather severe in appointments. 
Handsome damask gives elegance to a table, even when 
the decoration is very simple. Yellow color effects are 
always satisfactory, and they are particularly brilliant 
when used with artificial light. The- chrysanthemum 
is the king of November flowers. It is astonishing how 
decorative even a few of these splendid Japanese blos- 
soms are. Use a flat silver bowl filled with yellow 
chrysanthemums for a centerpiece. Light the dining 
room and table with clear wax candles shaded with 
candle shades made of artificial chrysanthemums. The 
menu should be a skillful combination of what may be 



zfia THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

termed the national dishes with others especiall}- liked I 
by men, and aboTe all do not neglect the brown N'oveni- ■ 
ber nut. 



CHESTNUT BOU1.ETTES 
MENU 

Oyster cocktail 

Oxtail soup 

Young turkey Cranberry jelly 

Ches^tniit boulettes Baked tomatoes 

Ma shod potatoes 

Olives Salted nuts Eadishes 

Sweetbreads with Madeira in chafing-dish 

Lettuce salad ivith French dressing 

Cheese croquettes Pastry strips 

Pumpkin fanchonettes i 

Orange ice 

Old-fashioned hickory nut cakes 

Black coffee 

Boasted chestnuts 



, HOUDAY FESTIVITIES 



264 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS - 



After the soup is removed, the butler should pass 
a tray on which are numbered tickets. Each guest takes 
one. Immediately the turkey is brought in "decoy^ted"' 
v/ith corresponding tickets, each cut being numbered. 
This is an unusual "turkey raffle/' and the match^fig of 
numbers is sure to occasion a great deal of interest and. 
amusement. 

The introduction of the chafing-dish to prepare the 
entree would give to this jolly little dinner an air of 
hoti'Camaraderiej provided the host is a clever manipu- 
lator of it. The chafing-dish is often tricky, ^<d one 
needs to guard well against failure or awkwSra delay. 
The fanchonette or individual pumpkin pie is a 
convenient way in which to present an old friend 
under a new name. The recipe for the orange ice 
is an exceptionally delicious one. It is attractively 
served in paper ice cups, covered with artificial flowers. 
At any dinner the clemi-tasse of cofTee should be so 
perfect as to leave nothing to be desired. Many men 
take pride in preparing such a cup of coffee at thft 
table. To make a successful cup of coffee only a 
few short rules need be observed. First secure an 
upto-date coffee pot, planned to make drip coffee. 
Science says never boil coffee. T"^se pulverized coffee and 
freshly boiling water. Here are some of the recii)e.s 
used in the menu : 

Salted Nuts — A mixture of almonds, filberts and 
walnuts salted is a good combination. The filberts are 
blanched, as are the almonds, but the skin is not 
removed from the walnuts. 



HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 365 

Orange iee^Put one pint of water and one and 
one-half cups of sugar on to boil ; chip the yellow rind 
of ■three oranges, add to the syrup, boil five minutes, 
aii<i stand away to cool. Peel eight nice, juicy oranges 
and one lemon, cut them in halves, take out the seeds 
and squeeze out all the juice; mix with the syrup, strain 
through a cloth and freeze. It may be necessary to add 
a. little sugar. This will depend upon the sweetness of 
the oranges. 



PASTRY STRIPS 

Cheese Croquettes— One cup grated cheese, whites 
of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, pinch of red pepper, 
two drop- of Worcestershire sauce. 5Iix cheese and 
whites of eggs, beat well. Make into shapes, roll in 
bread crumbs and let stand for an hour or two in a cold 
place. Fry them just before serving. 

Sweetbreads with Fresh Mushrooms — 'Wash well 
two pairs of sweetbreads. Put them in boiling water. 



a66 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPINO HOSTESS 



HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 267 

add. one bay leaf, a sprig of parsley, a teaspoon of salt 

and oxLe-fourth teaspoon of pepper; cover and simmer 

for "tliirty minutes, then throw them into cold water, 

cliaxLging the water to cool them quickly. When the 

swee'tbreads are cold pick them in small pieces, rejecting 

all skin. Drain them free from water and put in a 

boAvl. Now peel two pounds of meadow mushrooms, 

cixt "fclicm with a silver knife into quarters and throw into 

a \>o^l of cold water. Make one-fourth pound of butter 

into four balls, put one-half of it into the chafing-dish; 

wlien melted drain the mushrooms, put them into the 

hoi: butter, cover and cook very slowly for ten minutes ; 

add the sweetbreads, cover again for ten minutes; then 

add one-half pint of thick cream, the remainder of the 

butter, a teaspoon of salt, one-half teaspoon of white 

pepper; stir carefully until hot; add four tablespoons 

of Madeira wine and serve. It is hardly necessary to 

say that the sweetbreads and mushrooms are only 

creamed at the table, the entire preparation being made 

previously in the kitchen. 

Chestnut Boulettes^Wix one cup of mashed chest- 
nuts, two Qgg 3'olks beaten slightly, two tablespoons of 
cream, one tablespoon of sugar, one-eighth teaspoon of 
salt, one teaspoon of sherry. When cool fold in whites 
of two eggs beaten stiff, form into small balls, crumb, 
eggy crumb again, fry in hot fat. 

PumpJcin Fanchonettes — Mix one and one-half cups 
of stewed pumpkin very dry, with two cups of milk, one 
beaten egg, a large half cup of brown sugar, one tea- 
spoon of cinnamon, one-half teaspoon each of salt and 



a68 THE QOOO HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

ginger. Line individual tins with pastry and bake in a 
slow oven until brown on top. 

Old-Fashioned Hickory Nut Cake — Of all the nut 
cakes there is none better than this old-fashioned ane. 
Cream together one and one-half cups of fine granulated 
or pulverized sugar and one-half cup of butter. A.dd 
three-fourths of a cup of sweet milk, two and one-half 
cups of flour sifted with two teaspoons of baking powder 
and one cup of hickory nut meats dredged lightly with 
flour. Lastly add one-half teaspoon of vanilla and fold 
in the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 



A JEST CHRISTMAS TREE 
By Belle Aub!ry 

Decorate the tree fancifully and then confine all 
gifts to those costing five or ten cents, either purchased 
outright or made at the inspiration of a merry fancy. 
Each present should have some gayety-provoking refer- 
ence to the vocation, avocation or fad of the recipient, 
but the "hits" must be good-humored. To wound the 
feelings of a guest even in jest is unpardonable. 

The invitation to such a party might run in this wise : 
"Dear Mrs. Farnham, Santa Claus has sent us word 
that much to his regret he will not be able to be with 
us on Christmas eve, owing to pressing engagements 
elsewhere. Will not you and Mr. Farnham make up 
for this disappointment by spending Christmas eve with 
us ? Wo are asking a few other friends from eight to 



HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 269 

twelve, and upon each and every one is laid the embargo 
to come empty-handed. May we count upon the pleas- 
ure of seeing you both? Believe me, faithfully Amours, 
Helen Macy Vedder/^ The item about tiie embargo 
shows that you do not wish presents, which a Christmas 
time invitation otherwise is taken to mean bv mauv 
people. The notes should be sent at least ten days 
ahead, as Christmas week teems with engagements. 

The pivot of success for this jest tree is the spokes- 
man. He must be selected with much thought, and shoukl 
be someone who knows all the guests well, has a nimble 
wit, ready tongue and will take his office so much to 
heart that he will make a point of being amusing in liis 
remarks as he presents the presents; these will be sug- 
gestive in themsehes, and he must familiarize himself 
with the whole situation of course beforehand. If this 
master of the tree ceremonies can be the host, so much 
the better. 

It is not witty or kind to give a mirror to a girl 
known to be vain, but it raises a laugh without a sting 
to present a girl baby doll to the mother of a family 
all of boys. A wreath of laurel for the young singer is 
a pretty bit of sentiment, and even a package of Chinese 
incense sticks will please the studio-dwelling artist. The 
stern man can but laugh over a gay red stocking filled 
with sweets, and the crack shot of the rifle team over a 
toy gun, and the divinity student over a toy church. 
These veriest trifles did duty among others last Christ- 
mas to delight the guests at a five-cent gift tree given 
for its oddity in a beautiful Xew York home on Fifth 



270 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

avenue to amuse guests in evening dress and in the habit 
of giving and receiving gifts of much money value. 

It is much more enjoyable to limit the nunaber of 
guests to those who can sit at table for the spread. A 
buffet, stand-up or lap-supported supper is forgivable 
only when the company is of necessity large, as at a 
wedding, and the numbers and ability of the waiters 
commensurate. 

One appetizing supper menu that is not difficult to 
make ready or expensive, consists of creamed oysters 
served in small rolls hollowed out, salted almonds, 
chicken salad, water or cream ices, bonbons, cake and 
punch. Everything but the oysters and coffee can be 
prepared beforehand, and these take only a short time 
at the last minute. But the ices require skillful and 
timely service, and unless there is competent domestic 
service to wait on the table, substitute fruit jellies with 
whipped cream for the ices, *and have everything on 
the table. 

When the ovsters cannot be had, sweetbreads can be 
substituted; chicken and mushrooms in cream sauce 
are another substitute. These creamed dishes, lobster 
a la Xewburg, and many similar conceits may be pre- 
pared on the table in the presence of the guests if one is 
accomplished in the use of the chafing-dish so that she 
can feel at ease and talk as she works. The chafing- 
dish must be large, or there must be more than one when 
there are several guests. 

An appetizing little supper where chafing-dishes do 
not seem to be in harmony witb the circumstances can 



HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 271 



be rtxa^de from a large and delicious chicken pie, flanked 
by cold ham and turkey with relishes, preserved fruit 
served with thick sweet cream, cake and coffee. There 
Bh.oixld always be a punch bowl full of lemonade con- 
venient of access throughout the evening. 

The charm of hospitality does not lie in concocting 
clislies so marvelous to look at that they invite the cam- 
era's attention (and make one wonder just how many 
times each viand was handled before it finally arrived at 
its place in the resulting puzzle).. The charm of hospi- 
tality is the art of doing what is done, not in the 
nixnaber or extent of things done, in the atmosphere of 
good cheer and the genuineness of the welcome, not in 
any suggested bulletin of expenditures. 



A TWENTIETH-CENTURY CHRISTMAS TREE 

By Alice Chittenden 

A very respectable winter landscape can be evolved 
with a few chairs and stools of uneven hight, some old 
sheets and cotton batting. Arrange this "furniture 
landscape" behind the tree, throw the sheets over to 
produce a hilly effect, wrinkle them into the form of 
snowdrifts, and pin tufts of cotton batting upon the 
cloth, picking it out into fluffy masses. Fix the tree 
firmly to a standard, which should be screwed to the 
floor, as absolute rigidity is essential. Arrange* more 
muslin and cotton into irregular piles of snow under 



272 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

and in front of the tree and fasten little tufts of cotton 
lightly here and there in the crotches formed by tlie 
branches. After the tree is completely trimmed, simu- 
late the sparkle of new-fallen snow under artificial liglit 
by powdering the cotton with fine isinglass, and when 
the tapers are lighted the effect will be really magical. 
The larger branches, if brushed over at the last with thin 
mucilage and strewn thickly with fine salt, will have 
the appearance of glistening frost. 

To produce a moonlight effect, dress the tree in 
white and silver, hanging it with white and silver glass 
balls, diamond dusted popcorn garlands and snowballs. 
One of the latter should be provided for each child. 
Fashion a number of cube-shaped boxes from stiff 
writing paper, fill with candies or with the smaller gifts 
and wrap into a round ball with loosely picked batting, 
tying with fine white spool thread to keep the shape, 
and with a crochet hook pulling the cotton from under 
the thread so as to hide the latter and make a fluffy 
ball. Yellow and gold is a pretty color for decoration, 
which can be carried out with gilded popcorn and nuts, 
yellow candles, yellow glass balls and gifts wrapped in 
yellow tissue paper with ornaments of the same material. 

Encourage the youngest child to help in the dressing 
of the tree. The tawdry, pudgy little ornaments their 
babv finders have fashioned are more wonderful in their 
eyes than the most costly ones you can purchase. After 
the trimming is complete, banish them from the room 
and hang on the presents, and there will still be a sur- 
prise in store for thcni. If the Cliristmas tree has any 



^ 



HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 273 

place in the moral universe, it is when trimmed not 
only for, but by, the children. 

For a Sunday school or "settlement" Christmas 
celebration, a "Christmas cave" gives scope for origi- 
nality and striking scenic effects. Build e. cave-shaped 
box on a raised platform, drape insic.3 and out with 
white muslin, fasten evergreen boughs about the 
entrance and at the back, draping all of these with loose 
tufts of cotton like new-fallen snow, and sprinkling 
them with mica. Sprays of red berries can be introduced 
with splendid effect. White covered steps must lead up 
to the cave, about the mouth of which may be spread 
white fur rugs. Let the candles be fastened plentifully 
around the cave, but leave the rest of the room very 
dimly lighted. Dress a pretty, golden-haired little girl 
as a fairy with wings and spangles to enter the cave and 
bring out the gifts, and a couple of little boys as imps 
or brownies to deliver them. Low music should bo 
played in some concealed corner, with now and agiin 
a song or chorus by a band of children dressed as fairies. 

People cannot be too careful in guarding against 
fire when trimming a Christmas tree. There have been 
scores of Christmas tree fatalities in homes and in 
Sunday schools which a little care might have pre- 
vented. The present writer once set a tree in a blaze, 
consuming nearly half of it, tinsel ornaments going 
with the green branches. A tiny candle had been wired 
too high and it took only a few minutes of its brisk 
heat to char a branch above it and start a flame. A thick 
portiere was torn from its pole and thrown over the 



274 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

blaze. If it had not been at hand the light window 
curtains in another minute would have caught fire. 
Since that Christmas our tree has always been placed 
in the center of the room, and we have eschewed cotton 
wool, tissue paper angels and celluloid ornaments. First 
of all, we wire each candle securely in place at the 
farthest end of a branch which has nothing above it, 
either fir tree or trimming. Then as the tree is denuded 
we watch carefully the fast disappearing candles. 
Sometimes one of them, nearly burned down, will topple 
over or be merely a spark of flame, but near to something 
inflammable, will be a menace. 



AN INNOVATION 
By Anne "Warner 

The housemother was "raised" on historic ground 
and had no thought other than to serve the regulation 
Thanksgiving dinner, till a certain little girl thus 
expressed her sentiments about a week before the day 
set aside for praise and gluttony — to be followed by a 
week of indigestion and prayer: ^^Mamma," she said, 
"I can't be thankful on Thanksgiving if we are going 
to have a great big dinner, and I'm going to feel all 
body as I did last year. I'm sick of turkey, anyway !" 
Furthermore, the housemother overheard remarks by 
another member of her flock to the effect that it is hard 
lines holidays when a whole family lives in a city — and 
the same citv, at that — and when not one of them i3 



HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 275 

considerate enough to own a farm for the sole purpose 
of having the traditional place for reunions. 

This set the housemother to wondering if she could 
not at least introduce an element of surprise by chang- 
ing the' time-honored menu, and from that to planning 
to make the maligned city dining room suggest harvest 
season in the country. These ideas bore fruit — or 
rather vegetables — ^and when the project was finally 
carried out, the result justified the wearying search after 
the "common things" that made the room give one 
almost the feeling one has out-of-doors in autumn 

^'When the mist is on the cornfield, 
And the sun is droppin' slow.^^ 

Tall sheaves of tasseled corn, still bearing shining 
red and yellow ears, rustled in the corners and shim- 
mered round the cheery fireplace. Masses of swaying 
wheat and nodding oats, combined with vegetables — 
few of us realize that many of these are beautiful as well 
as useful — formed groups of brilliant color wherever in 
the room they could be arranged without suggesting a 
greengrocer's shop, a plate rail near the ceiling lending 
itself most amiably to the scheme. In the center of the 
dining room was a large mirror mat. Upon this were 
heaped the fruits that our Xew England climate flavors 
as no other can. Care was taken to mound the fruit 
to give it hight and stability at the same time. The 
housemother thinks that the intervals of a dinner can 
be more profitably and pleasantly filled in otherwise 
than by chasing truant bits of fruit that becomq dis- 



276 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



lodged from the centerpiece and roll out, threatening to ! 
cause the collapse of the elaborate structure. The menu | 
was a queer mingling of the old and the new in cookery 
— ^but here it is : 

Canape Lorenzo 

(Chamberlin) 

Roast "spar^rib" Apple sauce 

Stuffed onions Potato roses 

Cider 

Chicken pie Cauliflower au gratin 

Celery Cranberry jelly 

Indian pudding, sauce Grilled nuts 

New century sandwiches Cream peppermints 

Coffee 

Canape Lorenzo — Chop a small shallot, fry lightly 
in two ounces of butter, without coloring. Add a 
tablespoonful of flour wet with a pint of cream, then 
one pint of crab meat; salt and pepper to taste and 
leave on the fire till it bubbles. Cut slices of bread 
one-quarter of an inch thick, trim in any desired shape 
and toast on one side only. Put the mixture on the 
toasted side and cover one-eighth of an inch thick with 
butter prepared as follows: One-quarter of a pound 
of butter, one-half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese 
and a seasoning of both red and white pepper. Lay 
the canapes on a buttered dish and color in the oven. 

For the roast, select carefully the loin and ribs of 
a "beastie" both fresh and young. Plunge this cut 
quickly into scalding water; wipe and rub with salt, 



HOLIDAY PB8TIVITIBS 377 

pepper, sage and flour. Bake in a moderately hot oven 
twenty or even twenty-five minutes to the pound, with 
a small quantity of water in the pan. It is more whole- 
some partly or entirely cold, so can be cooked early. 
Serve the roses on the same platter with it, as a garnish. 
To two cupfuls of seasoned mashed potatoes add the 
yolks of two eggs and white of one, and beat. Put in 
a pastry bag, and as it is pressed through the tube guide 
it first in a circle, then irregularly wind it round till it 
comes to a point in the center. The little piles of potato 
will look like roses — if you are imaginative. Brush 
them over lightly with egg, put a bit of butter on each 
and brown slightly in the oven. 

The housemother does not believe in spoiling apple 
sauce with overmuch seasoning and cooking. Use a 
graniteware or porcelain kettle. Have in readiness 
freshly boiling water; a good fire; the sugar, measured; 
and selected Baldwin apples, large, unblemished and 
warm. Allow from one-half to three-quarters of a cup 
of granulated sugar to eight apples — ^the exact quantity 
depending upon the development of the sweet tooth in 
the family. Pare and quarter the fruit with all haste, 
laying the pieces in the kettle core side down ; sprinkle 
over the sugar, pour on about three cups of boiling 
water, cover the kettle with a close-fitting lid and cook 
over a quick fire only until the apple quarters are partly 
transparent. Slip the contents of the kettle into a 
shallow earthen dish at once, keeping them right side 
up in the transfer, and put the dish in a cool, airy placo. 
The sauce will be white and "sightly" and taste of apple. 



278 THB GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



Stuffed Spanish Onions — Peel the onions under 
water and scoop out from the top a portion of the 
center. Parboil five minutes and turn upside down to 
drain. Make a stuffing of the chopped onion taken 
from the centers, softened bread crumbs, salt, pepper 
and a generous amount of butter. Fill the onions 
heaping full and sprinkle the top with buttered crumbs. 
Cover and cook till tender (about an hour) in a pan 
containing a small quantity of water. Let them brown 
a very little before taking from the oven. 

Just a few points as to the pie! Make it big, in 
consideration for the children and the pork-prejudiced. 
In preparing the chickens take out the oysters and 
discard the rest of the back with the legs and the tips 
of the wings; a pie is no place for these. Season the 
gravy highly, thicken it also and prepare more than the 
immediate need demands, for use when warming the 
left-over portion. Make the paste like baking-powder 
biscuit dough, only richer; both little and big can 
indulge to the extent of capacity then. In the "good 
old times^^ the partaker ate chicken pie crust with 
dyspeptic dreams imminent; and no wonder, with a 
pound of butter in an under crust and two pounds in 
the upper! Use a flaring baking dish and line sides 
only. When chicken is snugly packed in, and grsLYj con- 
taining a pinch of curry poured over, cover with paste 
having a circular opening cut out of it, not cut and 
turned back. Edge the pie with a border of twisted 
dough. 

Old-fashioned Granherry Jelly — To every quart of 



HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 379 

cranberries allow one cup of boiling water and one-half 
a cup of seeded raisins which have been boiled in a 
Utile water for three-quarters of an hour. Cover and 
cook soft over a quick fire. Hub through a colander 
and return to the saucepan. Add one pint of sugar 
and simmer five minutes, stirring constantly. Pour 
into crockery molds. For sauce, allow one pint of water 
instead of a cup, and do not strain it; or, if preferred, 
make a sugar sjrup, then add cranberries and raisins 
and cook tender. 

Cauliflower au Oratin — Cauliflower should be 
creamy white without black spots. Pick off the out- 
side leaves, invert and soak in cold salted water 
for an hour. Tie in a bag and cook in boiling salted 
water for about twenty minutes, or till tender. 
Drain and break it into flowerets. Put a layer in 
an Edam cheese shell, cover with cream sauce and 
alternate layers of cauliflower and sauce till the shell 
is heaping full. Sprinkle top with buttered bread 
crumbs and set shell in oven to brown the crumbs. Use 
a dish if the cheese shell is not at hand. 

Indian Pudding — Indian pudding, like several 
other savory common dishes which depend for digest- 
ibility on long cooking, is one for the person who is con- 
scions of a digestive apparatus to be wary of when not 
under his own vine and fig tree. Get old-fashioned 
bolted meal, if possible; not that which is usually sold 
by grocers and which has the keeping qualities and flavor 
of sawdust. Follow any good recipe for combining pro- 
portions of milk, meal, suet, molasses, salt and ginger. 



280 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

with or without eggs, and cook it, covered, in a slow oven 
for four or five hours. Stir occasionally and add milk if 
the mixture gets too thick. Next day add more milk and 
cook again for the same length of time. Many like the 
flavor given if a liberal sprinkling of candied orange 
peel, or currants, or a layer of quartered apples, is put 
iii the bdttorii of the baking dish. With Indian pud- 
ding the homely' sauce of whipped cream mixed with 
shaved inaple sugar' "can^t be beat,^^ but either hard 
sauce 01* caramel is excellent. The^ pudding at this par- 
ticular dinner wa^ garnished round about with a row of 
biaked' apples, "sweet and sour alternating. The sour 
ones had been cored and the hollows filled with sugar 
before baking, and all cooked till soft. 

Grilled Nuts — Boil two cupf uls of granulated 
sugar with one-half a cup of water until it hairs. Add 
two ciapfuls of blanched and dried almonds and filberts 
mixed and stir till the sugar grains and clings to the 
nuts. When well coated and before they get into one 
mass turn them out and separate any that have stuck 
together. 

The "sandwiches" were made of big, plump, rich 
raisins filled with almonds or hickory nuts. 




HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 



281 



Coffee (the housemother's way) — In a well-scalded 
and w^ell-aired coffee pot put the same number of 
heaping tablespoons of coffee as cups to be served. Add 
as ma4y clean eggshells as cups, or if white of egg is 
preferried allow one white for clearing three cups. Add 
one tablespoon of cold water for each cup, and mix. 
Pour in the requisite number of cups of freshly boiling 
water and boil five minutes. Pour a little' cold water 
dov\-n the spout; stir in one tablespoon of fresh coffee 
and a pinch of salt and set where it will keep hot, but 
not simmer, for ten minutes. Fill the nozzle with 
tissue paper. If there is a delay in serving, at. the end 
of ten minutes pour the coffee from the grounds into a 
clean coffee pot and keep hot till wanted. 

Between dinner and the good-byes, the children 
amused themselves by etching and inking faces on all 
the little sugar pumpkins among the decorations. They 
adorned them further, to their immense satisfaction, by 
tying and gluing on white tissue paper in the shape of 
caps with frills and strings. These treasures they 
carried proudly home. At bedtime, when the house- 
mother went to tuck in the original cause of the innova- 
tion (which I shall probably continue to do till she's 



283 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS i 

I 
, 



iwenty-one), she said sleepily: "Mamma, everybody] 
enjoyed this Thanksgiving dinner, because — ^it wasu 
one I'^ N". B. — ^If you must celebrate the day by eatinj 
turkey, get one from Rhode Island; they are the best. 
Their title to superiority does not depend upon the fairy 
story that they are of different breed from the ordinary 
idiotic barnyard fowl, nor that their daily food consisit^ 
of chestnuts ground up with porterhouse steak; bull 
simply that, owing to the limited area of the state, the^ 
do not toughen muscle or lose flesh from overexercise. 



OTHER SPECIAL OCCASIONS 



OTHER SPECIAL OCCASIONS 

A BIRTHDAY PARTY 
By Jeannette Young 

ON her seventy-second birthday, a dear friend 
received us with dignity and courtesy. On her 
silver hair, arranged in side puffs, was a lace cap. 
Her gray silk gown with its white lace fichu and dainty 
work bag made her look like an old portrait come to life. 
Grandma sat in state, and we all passed in line, leaving 
on her lap our gifts and receiving a kiss in return. 
Two or three unique features I will tell you of. There 
were fifty-two letters, each containing a picture of the 
writer and describing some pleasant incident or pleas- 
ure in their life wherein the hostess had shared; one 
letter to be opened each Sunday morning of the coming 
year. But the loveliest gift of all was from her six chil- 
dren, nine grandchildren and one wee great-grandchild 
—a silver rosary composed of silver hearts, each one 
containing a picture of child, grandchild and wee one; 
while the large pendant heart held a picture of the 
grandfather encircled by a lock of white hair. Grandma 
on the arm of her eldest son preceded us to the supper 
table, taking her place by the silver tea urn. In the 
center of the table was a rich fruit birthday cake, made 
after her own good receipt, garnished with a wreath 



286 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



of myrtle. What a delicious old-time supper. Hot bis- 
cuits, fresh butter, boned cold fowls, meats, salads, cakes, 
creams, jellies and delicious tea. Grandma was waited 
upon by her two youngest daughters and two eldest 
granddaughters. We had an evening of old-time games, 
"forfeits," "spin the platter," making gales of merri- 
ment. 

VALENTINE CONTESTS 
By Mary Dawson 

One of the new and pretty ways of opening the 
valentine party by a choice of partners for the games of 
the evening is the decision of the envelopes, which is 
arranged in this way : Take a package of old-fashioned 
valentine envelopes, those having embossed design and 
long flaps. Draw or paint on each a different sort of 
flower. Write the name of a certain girl who is to be 
present on a card and inclose it in the envelope, form- 
ing as. many floral envelopes as there are girls in the 
party. Now write the names of all the flowers repre- 
sented upon separate cards. Have the name cards in a 
basket or dish in the vestibule and the envelopes — sealed, 
of course — on the drawing room table. Each man 
coming in selects the flower he prefers from the basket 
in the hall. On entering the drawing room he receives 
the envelope decorated with the chosen flower. When 
all guests have arrived the floral envelopes are opened. 
The girl whose name is found in the envelope becomes 
the partner of the man who chose her emblem. 



OTHER SPECIAL OCCASIONS 287 

A HEART PARTY FOR FEBRUARY 14 

By Marjorie March 

The text of this party is to be simplicity, as it 
is only one of the many ways that a busy housewife 
may entertain her friends inexpensively. The invita- 
tions should be on white notepaper with perhaps a tiny 
heart drawn in red ink at the top (Cupid^s coat of 
arms). The hostess herself should dress in white, red, 
or red and white in combination. The chief expense 
will 'be for flowers, but two bunches of carnations will 
suffice, which, mingled with smilax, will make a center- 
piece for both dining room and drawing room table. 

A charming cozy corner can easily be arranged for 
the headquarters of the game by pushing the table with 
the flowers into one corner; with a divan with sofa 
cushions, a potted palm or so, and suspended from the 
ceiling an immense Japanese umbrella to overshadow 
the table. In fact, for an informal evening where 
sapper is simply to be passed, the more cozy corners, 
inviting seats and chairs arranged for tete-a-tetes, the 
better. 

The success of entertaining is to start people enter- 
taining themselves. For the game to be played, which 
is called the game of hearts (though not the popular 
game of cards), the list cards should have at the top 
the same little red emblem of love. The game consists 
of a list of selected quotations from poems on love, the 
players to guess from what poets the quotations are 



.188 THB GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

chosen. Pieces of paper and pencils should be provided 
for all the guests. The hostess, of course, cannot play, 
as she knows the answers, but takes charge of all the 
slips of paper as thc}^ are returned to her. A prize 
is given to the one who guesses all the quotations, or 
the greatest number. But the sequel to the game Ls 
perhaps the greatest fun. It is simply a slight change 
in the old game of word and question. But the worda 
must be chosen from .the names of the noted poets, 
and the question must pertain to love in some shape 
or manner. Each person writes a word, turns down 
the paper and passes it to his left-hand neighbor," who 
in turn writes the question, passing it on likewise. The 
tliird person is to write a four-line valentine, bringing 
in the word and answering the question. A vote is 
taken afterward as to the best valentine and a prize 
given. The prizes should be in the shape of a heart, 
and can be simple, a candy box filled, a stickpin, a 
pincushion or cut glass dish; any of the countless 
articles bearing that design. For the first part of the 
game take such bits of verses as the following, from 
well-known poets: 

"Life and love will soon come by, 
There, little girl, don't cry.'^ 

— James Whitcomb Eiley. 

"God^s love and peace be with thee 
Wheresoever this soft autumnal air 
Lifts the dark tresses of thv hair." 

— John Greonleaf Whittier. 



OTHER SPBCIAL OCCASIONS tSg 

*^Liove is not love which alters when it alteration finds, 
Or bends with the remover to remove." 

— William Shakespeare. 

^*True love is but a humble, low-born thing, 
And hath its food served up in earthenware." 

— James Russell Lowell. 

"I take 3^ou as a gift that God has given 
And I love you." 

— Adelaide Anne Proctor. 

"I arise from dreams of thee 
And a spirit in my feet 
Has lod me — who knows how — 
To thy chamber window, sweet." 

— Percy Bysshe Shelley. 

'^And all hearts do pray God love her. 
Ay and always, in good sooth. 
We may all be sure He doth." 

— Elizabeth Barrett Browning. 

"The white rose weeps, she is late. 
The larkspur listens. I hear, I hear, 
And the lily whispers, I wait." 

— Alfred Tennvson. 

"Oh, that we two were maying 
Down the stream of the soft spring breeze." 

— Charles Kingsley. 



ago THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



'^Kissing her hair, I sat against her feet. 
Wove and unwove it, wound and found it sweet/^ 

— Algernon Charles Swinburne. 

"And in that twilight hush, God drew their hearts 
Indissolubly close. For what is love 
But his most perfect weaving?'^ 

— Lucy Larcom. 

"Too full of love my soul is to find place 
For fear or anger." 

— Edwin Arnold. 

"It isn't the thing you do, dear, 

If s the thing you leave undone. 
Which gives you a bit of a heart-ache 
At the setting of the sun." 

— Margaret Elizabeth Sangster. 

Eor the second part of the game, I will give one 
' or two verses composed at one of these parties. They 
r.uist of necessitv be rather absurd, but fun lends itself 
cr.sily to their reading: One word written and turned 
down was "Burns," from Eobert Burns. The question 
written below was : "Must vour wife know how to 
make bread?" The verse that the third person wrote 
was: 

"Oh, maiden gentle and good-looking, 
I beg to ask, art fond of cooking? 
My ardor burns — canst make good bread ? 
Well-bred — ^good bread! — wilt thou me wed?^^ 



J 



OTHER SPECIAL OCCASIONS 291 

A second was, the word being "Greenleaf/^ from 
eJolm Greenleaf Whittier, the question: "Do you loye 
your sweetheart enough to go shopping with her?^^ 

^*Hadst thou asked me to pluck a green leaf from a tree 
When frost claims the earth, ^twere more easy for me, 
Than to think of poor Cupid a-wearied to stopping 
When told to make love to a maiden when shopping ! V^ 

The menu for this entertainment should be most 
simple: coffee or chocolate and heart-shaped sand- 
wiches, ices and fancy cakes in heart shapes. The viands 
should all be passed from the dining room table, which 
should be covered with a spotless white cloth. Candle- 
sticks with white candles and red shades should yield 
their soft light, aijd the spicy fragrance of the carna- 
tion centerpiece will add to the simple charm. 

A WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY PARTY 

By E. M. 

The birthday of George Washington was delight- 
fully celebrated once in a boarding school, where 
forty girls joined in the fun, all garbed in Martha 
Washington gowns. Forty pairs of hands had made 
light work of decorations and party preparations. The 
affair may be too elaborate to be carried out in full 
by the ordinary hostess, who must perforce be caterer, 
decorator and entertainer all in one, still the arrange- 
ment can be simplified, the ideas adapted and the party 
made none the less delightful. 



292 THE GOOD HOUSEKBBPING HOSTESS 

Supper was served in the great dining room, wliere 
a round table had been exquisitely linened and artisti- 
cally adorned. The electric bulbs in the ceiling were 
swathed in scarlet tissue paper, and between them ran 
wreaths of smilax, simulating the never-to-be-forgotten 
red of the cherry and the green of its leaves. More smi- 
lax, with milliner^s cherries, clipped from cheap artificial 
wreaths, was draped about pictures, over the sideboards, 
the doors and the windows. In the center of the round 
table stood a grand decoration, on which the girls had 
worked for a week. 

It was a low tree, with slender branches. To it 
had been wired a profusion of leaves cut from stiff green 
paper, and cherries made from a dab of cotton wool 
twisted inside a round of scarlet tissue paper. The work 
was so cleverly done that it would have been hard to 
imagine the tree and its fruit were not real. The 
base of the tree was set firmly into a tin plate filled 
with melted lead, which kept it as steady as if planted 
in the ground. The leaden base was covered with a 
wreathing of smilax. It stood within another smilax 
wreath nearlv five feet across, and within the circle 
was a scattering of green cherry leaves and scarlet 
cherries, with slender green stems of milliner^s wire. 
Attached to the stems of forty cherries on the tree were 
narrow ribbons, which alternated in color, green and 
scarlet. They ran to each plate at the round table 
and ended in a jaunty bow, through which was passed 
a silver spoon with the head of the father of our countiy 
in relief in the bowl, while on the handle was the date. 



OTHER SPECIAL OCCASIONS 293 

The dishes used were in old blue, each service 
X^late bearing a scene from revolutionary history. The 
place cards were the unique product of one schoolgirl, 
^'ho had a gift for printing beautifully. Each card, 
four by five inches in size, was made with a border 
which looked as if there was an American flag under, 
. with a white card laid upon it. Within this border of 
red, white and blue was pasted a small fine reproduction 
of Gilbert Stuart's George Washington, then underneath 
a sentence from some famous speech of our first presi- 
dent. In an unobtrusive corner was to be found the 
name of the guest. The table napkins were folded in 
cocked hat fashion, and everywhere about the table were 
set glass dishes holding candied cherries in all sorts of 
gnise, cut in halves and placed on top of chocolate drops, 
dipped whole in scarlet fondant, or oozing with syrup 
in tiny lace paper cases. The cakes were made hatchet 
fashion and iced red, M^hite and blue. 

There was one magnificent birthday cake with a 
garland of candied cherries and green leaves (cut from 
angelica) set into the wliite icing. The ice cream, from 
the hands of a clever caterer, was molded into Bunker 
Hill monument shapes, into hnioliets, cooked hats, flags 
or an enormous two-leaved cherry. To ilie handles of 
sherbet cups wore sowed tiny silk flags, and in these 
was served the first course, a delicious fruit salad con- 
cocted from oranges, pineapple and white grapes, with 
maraschino cherries as a garnish. Tomato bouillon 
followed in quaint blue and white cups ; then came cold 
chicken sliced, peas in timbale cases and creamed potato. 



294 THB GOOD HOUSEKEEPINO HOSTESS 

Celery salad with a garnish of red beets was the next 
course, then the dessert, with cakes and coffee. 

While each course was being removed, the girls 
joined in singing a verse or two from patriotic songs. 
Over coffee, nuts and oandy, the sentiments were read 
from the place cards and a few five-minute speeches 
were made by the best talkers at the table. The last 
ceremony consisted in a smart tweak at the ribbon beside 
the plate of each guest. This served to bring away 
from the tree one of the tissue paper cherries, in the 
heart of which was something which betokened one's 
future; a thimble, a ring, or the button of the lonely 
bachelor maid. The last hour spent in the parlors was 
a complete surprise to the girl household, for within 
shut' doors during the afternoon the teachers had trans- 
formed a modern interior into an old-fashioned one, 
with ancient furniture, queer yellowed prints and quaint 
portraits on the walls. There were wax flowers, antique 
china, old samplers, faded embroideries, funny daguer- 
reotypes, ancient silver, beaded reticules, and old books 
scattered about on tables, lit by tall bavberry candles 
in brass candlesticks or lamps at which sparkled scores 
of cut glass danglers. The last part of the evening 
was as delightful as the supper. 

A ST. PATRICK'S DAY PARTY 

By Katherine A. Chandler 

Send the invitation in the brogue, with which Mr, 
Dooiey and Seumas MacManus are making us familiar, 



OTHER SPECIAL OCCASIONS 295 



on a paper cut like a shamrock leaf and shaded a 
delicate green. The answers will probably be worth 
2>inning up for all the guests to enjoy. Decorate with 
^reen, having the harp and the shamrock in evidenc}. 
Portieres of smilax have a pleasing effect. In one corinr 
liave a Blarney stone. All must kiss this the first thing 
BO as to honey their tongues. It should be elevated a 
little so that they will have to climb up to kiss it. 

From the Blarney stone, the guests will pass to a 
booth to pay their respects to Meave, the ancient Irish 
queen who has evolved into the Queen Mab of the poets. 
As they bow low before her, she will pin on each one's 
back a card bearing an Irish name, which he is to hold 
during the evening. Then the courtier will rise, receive 
a bimch of shamrock as a token of Meave's favor, and 
pass among the other guests to try to discover his own 
identit3^ No one is allowed to take the card off, but 
must learn who he is by questioning. The names may 
be of real or fictitious persons, and of Irish birth or 
descent, such as Kathleen Mavourneen, Kathleen Aroon, 
Norah Creina, Thomas Moore, Eobert Emmet, Presi- 
dent McKinley, General Sheridan. If possible secure a 
harpist; if not, have any instrument and some of the 
sweet old Irish songs, as : The Harp That Once Through 
Tara's Halls, The Wearing of the Green, Kathleen 
Mavourneen, Kathleen Aroon, The Last Eose of Sum- 
mer, etc. All present should join the singing. For 
refreshments, have pistachio cream and "shamrock'* 
cakes. These can be easily made by getting a clover 
shape at the tinner^s; insert a piece of citron for a stem 



296 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPINQ HOSTESS 

and coat with an icing tinted with a green vegetable 
coloring matter. If something warm is desired, an 
oyster stew may be substituted for the "Irish stew/^ hot 
baked Irish potatoes in their jackets and "a cup of tay/' 

AN APRIL FOOL'S EVENING 
By Marjorie March 

The would-be hostess has a smile and a big interro- 
gation mark for my greeting as I write of this occa- 
sion. "It must be a very informal evening/' I avow; 
^^Doth inclination and purse say so.'' And she nods 
in response. So let us imagine we have invited 
twenty-five guests, all well known to each other, and the 
invitations we must word somewhat in this way : 

Miss Blank: 

The pleasure of your company is requested at an 
informal April Fool's party, from eight until twelve, 
April first. Please wear sheet and pillowcase dress. 

Yours verv sincerely, B . 

The designs of sheet and pillowcase dresses are 
endless, and the whole effect is rather pretty and ghost- 
like as the guests assemble in the parlor read}'^ for the 
fun. The host and hostess should be similarly clad, but 
to distinguish them, they might have tiny bells sewed 
to their disguise that "they may make music wherever 
they go." Red jesters' caps generously supplied with 
bells are a good addition and make attractive souvenirs 
for the guests to take home. These may or may not be 



OTHER SPECIAL OCCASIONS 297 

supplied to the guests in the dressing room. It is a 
little additional trouble in preparation of the evening. 

When all are assembled the April Fools' dance be- 
gins. All the ghostlike figures range themselves in line. 
One person at a time steps out of the rank, whispers his 
or her name to the hostess, who with paper and pencil in 
hand is to be score keeper, and she writes down his 
guesswork. He is to guess without touching the figures 
who each person is, saying the guess out loud that all 
may hear. If the guess is right the ghostlike personator 
guessed keeps silent — if the guesser makes a mistake, tho 
figure before him calls out *' April Fool," the score 
keeper, as 1 said, keeping track of the number of times 
he is fooled. At the end of the line being reached, a gay 
waltz strikes up from the piano. The sheeted figures 
seize each other as partners until the music suddenly 
ceases once juore and the *'ghosts" line up for another 
guesser. This does away, with any advantage the last 
guesser might have over the first in being April Fooled. 
And so the merriment waxes loud until all have guessed 
and the hostess orders the masks removed and announces 
the name of the guesser who was April Fooled the least. 
A prize should be given to the most successful. This 
game is new and is great fun, as can be imagined. 

The next part of the program as announced by 
the hostess is the finding of tiny bells hidden here and 
there and everywhere. The one who finds the greatest 
number of bells is to be proclaimed chief jester and will 
have the honor of cutting the April Fool pie at the sup- 
per table. This game scatters the guests and for fifteen 



298 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

minutes gives chances for charming tete-a-tetes and 
whispered conferences in corners, that makes the even- 
ing pleasant and keeps the merriment afloat. Wheji 
the name of the chief Jester is announced, the party dis- 
appears into the dining room. Here the guests are 
served at small tables, all the viands, however, being 
placed on the center table. The April Fool pie causes 
much fvm. This should be an enormous pie of pie-crust 
filled with tiny trifles wrapped in tissue paper. On the 
top of the pie twenty-four little birds cut out of black 
paper are perched by means of pins stuck through their 
feet. Also pinned to the pie is this verse: 

When this pie is opened. 

The birds begin to sing ? 
That is where you^re April Fooled. 

We wonH do such a thing ! 

As T said, the pie can hold any tiny trinkets. If 
some personal joke can be carried out by the character 
of the gifts, so much the better. If one wishes to be 
at the trouble of having bells (little ones, of course) 
stitched here and there and everywhere, it is a carrying 
out of the idea that a fool must have cap and bells. A 
fringe of bells to the tablecloths, as an edge to the candle 
shades, and on the rungs of the chairs, would be the 
most eft'ective and best spots. 

Fried oysters, with sandwiches and coffee, ices and 
cakes, would make a good menu. Here there should be 
no fooling. The candies that are made of cotton, the 



OTHER SPECIAL OCCASIONS 299 

food that is deluged with pepper, etc., etc., seem but poor 
jokes to the average jester, and when hospitality is to 
play the fool it would be the hight of rudeness to his 
guests. 



CHURCH AFFAIRS 



"M^.» ^ 



CHURCH AFFAIRS 

THE STRAWBERRY FESTIVAL 
By Annabel Lee 

THE month of June is the accepted time for the 
strawberry festival, which furnishes an excuse 
for a church fair or for a money-raising device, 
under a new name and with fresh attractions. The 
ideal arrangem'ent is to have the festival out of doors, 
making it as summery as possible. But alas, in the 
north Dame iSTature is a capricious person, even in June, 
and it is a trifle risky to plan for an outdoor fete. How- 
ever, let us appoint the night when there is to be a 
moon, and let us suppose that some generous soul has 
been found who possesses a spacious shady lawn and 
a roomy house with verandas, and who is willing to 
sacrifice her family, her possessions and herself, particu- 
larly her temper, to the good of the cause for which the 
festival is given. Let a committee of capable workers, 
not shirkers, be selected to manage the affair, conferring 
with the owner of the house, but not exacting much of 
her. It is enough to loan a house and grounds, to pre- 
pare them for the event, and to set them in order after- 
ward without having the actual responsibility. 

In the first place arrange round or square tables. 
Beating six or eight persons, over the lawn and verandas. 



304 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

The veranda tables will appeal to the people who prefer 
to "keep off the grass." Use fine white linen tablecloths 
and have for centerpieces small ferns stuck into tim 
of wet moss or sand^ or if some gardener will allow his 
strawberry patch to be rifled, use blossoms and leave-?. 
Failing to get either ferns or strawberry flowers, use 
June roses of a deep pink tint. 

If table dishes are hired, have white, or pink and 
white, trying to keep the arrangement of color in straw- 
berry red, green and white. Folded Japanese paper 
napkins of white, or white bordered with strawberry 
flowers or berries, should be laid at each plate, with 
knife, folk, spoon and glass. Have no food except 
relishes on the table, and serve each order separately. 
Xotliing so .spoils the appearance of a table as a mixture 
of half-filled dishes, and it spoils the appetite, too. Have 
each table in charge of a matron with two w^aitresses, 
the prettiest girls to be found, and ask them to dress 
in white. The matron will see that the table is kept in 
order and the girls will w^ait upon the patrons of 
the feast. 

Place some rugs and easy chairs in sheltered spots 
to attract the people who do. not (tare to stroll about 
tlie grounds, and have rustic benches cozily located in 
tlie garden for tete-a-tetes. Use plenty of Japanese 
Lmterns for decoration, but depend for light (which 
will not fail) upon large headlights or lanterns with 
reflectors, hung on convenient trees. A few large tables 
covered with white paper and sheltered from view by 
screens might be placed in the backgronad for serving 



CHURCH AFFAIRS 305 



the supper, or the food might be brought from the 
kitchen — ^whichever plan seemed most convenient. A 
sales table for the' display of aprons, embroidery and 
bags of various kinds might be included in the arrange- 
ments. However, for an oiit-of-door party it seems 
hardly desirable to offer anything for sale except thcv 
supper, which should be the main feature, and beyond 
reproach. The very best cooks should be asked to pro- 
vide the food and great care taken to have everything 
as dainty and attractive as possible; hence all details 
must be carefully planned and arrangements made in 
advance. No eleventh hour haste will atone for first 
hour delay. 

In a conspicuous place set a table holding a glass 
bowl of strawberry frappe or lemonade, to he served in 
small glass cups. A block of ice hollowed out, witli 
a lighted pink candle inside, may be put in the center 
of the bowl, and the frappe heaped around the ice, 
insuring coolness. Decorate the table with strawberry 
•vines or ferns, and have two white-robed maidens to 
serve the frappe. 

The supper may be served from five to eight o'clock, 
as June evenings have long, delightful twilight, and the 
lanterns need not be lighted early. Music is an attrac- 
tion to such a festival, but an orchestra adds to the 
expense, and it might be inadvisable to liire one. A 
street piano (at proper distance) might create amusc- 
luent and add a novel feature, or perhaps some amateur 
performers on mandolin, banjo and guitar might be 
induced, in other words, coaxed, to volunteer tl*eir 



3o6 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



serviceH. 8uch an offer must be taken up at once, giving 
no one time to change his mind. 

Now, for the supper. It must be hearty, but not 
heavy, for rich food in summer is unnecessary; it must 
be varied to suit different tastes, and yet be made up of 
articles which may be served cold and which will not 
spoil quickly. 

Lobster salad makes an appetizing dish, perfect in 
color, to serve for such a supi)cr; but direful tales are 
told of the effect of combining lobster, strawberries and 
ice cream, so, to keep temptation from the injudicious, 
lobster salad must be tabooed. Cold boiled ham and 
tongue thinly sliced and garnished with parsley will 
answer for meats. Tomatoes cut in halves and served 
on a leaf ^)f crisp lettuce with a spoonful of golden 
mayonnaise, will furnish a tempting salad. Saratoga 
potatoes, radishes, pickles and pimolas will add zest to 
the supper. Individual sweet shortcakes, strawberries, 
the very choicest, and cream, rich and yellow, strawberry 
ice cream, strawberry eclairs, sponge cake, angel cake, 
small cakes, make a list of sweets to suit each and all, 
while coffee and chocolate will serve for beverages. 

It is a good plan to order the rolls from some well- 
known bakery and have them delivered fresh just before 
the supper. The butter may be served in pats if anyone 
has the patience to roll them. Cakes marked in tiny 
equares can be bought and cut deftly, and kept on ice. 
A pretty menu card should be placed on each table, and 
the supper may be served a la carte or for a fixed price, 
vatk-icc cream and strawberries extra. With plenty of 



CHURCH AFFAIRS 307 



help in the kitchen and a well-defined plan of service, 
this supper should be easy to provide, and would surely 
prove attractive if well advertised. 

The same plan might be carried out on a church 
la\irii if the situation was suitable. Yet it is a noticeable 
fact that an entertainment which is given on private 
pounds draws more people and seems to be a trifle more 
novel and attractive. 

The rolls, crackers, Saratoga potatoes, radishes, 
piniolas, strawberries, cream, ieo cream, frappe, small 
cakes and angel cake may be purchased from the baker 
and grocer; all the other dishes on the menu should 
be homemade. If enough money can be raised before- 
hand to pay for the food purchased, so much the better 
for the profits from the supper. 

After all the arrangements have been made, the 
Weather, with a big W, may interfere at the very last, 
and a flight indoors be necessary, or a postponement 
may seem the wisest plan. It requires abundant courage* 
to undertake an out-of-door party, yet when everything 
is favorable success is unquestioned. 

« 

FOR AN INDOOR FESTIVAL 

An indoor festival is not dependent upon smiling 
skies, and may be planned with full security and confi- 
dence. Church parlors and kitchen will provide the 
necessary room and permit more elaborate features in 
the shape of a bazar. A novelty in a sales table is 
a large round table decorated to resemble a wheel, witii 



3o8 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

a mound of strawberries surrounded with green leaves 
for the hub, and radiating spokes made of long strips 
of smilax, trailing fern or vines. In the intervening 
spaces have jars of rich strawberry preserve, jelly and 
jam for sale, made by housewives whose work can be 
recommended. At a food sale the question is often 
asked: "Who made this?" And if in reply one can 
say: "Mrs. X, who makes delicious preserves,'' a sale is 
effected at once on the strength of a reputation. A 
newspaper article on food adulteration tells of straw- 
berry (?) jam made out of glucose, coloring matter 
and seeds of timothy grasf. None of those delicacies 
enter into homemade productions, which always com- 
mand a high price. 

A table for the sale of homemade cake and cookies is 
a fitting companion to the preserve table. Decorate a 
table for candy with green and strawberry red on a 
white cloth, using red and green crepe {)aper and silver 
candelabra, with red candles and shades. Have home- 
made candy in glass dishes; also salted almonds and 
stuffed dates; these will bring a good sum of money. 
Scales, white paper bags and boxes and red twine should 
be provided for packing up the candy. 

The crepe papers may be purchased at the station- 
er's store in a bewildering variety of colors and patterns. 
This paper is most useful for decoration, and skillful 
fingers make from it bewitching lamp and candle shades, 
boxes, patty cases, flowers and paper dolls, which cost 
little and find ready purchasers. Wall paper in artistic 
£awer patterns makes attractive covers for all kinds of 



CHURCH AFFAIRS 309 



es, largo and small. It also makes dainty photograph 
mes wKen skillfully mounted with pasteboard, glass 
[ passepartout. A paper table might include station- 
, photographs and writing tablets. 

June roses vie with strawberries in rich reds, and 
y be used in decoration, or sold at a flower booth. The 
pi^e or lemojiade table should have a place of honor; 
space permits the storage of a freezer full of vanilla 
cream (out of sight), strawberry college ice may be 
•ved at this table, with a spoonful of ice cream cov- 
id with a spoonful of crushed strawberries, sweetened 
th boiled sugar S3rrup, in tall, bell-shaped glasses. 
ae supper tables should be arranged as for the outdoor 
Btival and the same supper served. 

STRAWBERRY FESTIVAL MENU 

Cold ham Cold tongue Eolls 

Saratoga potatoes Tomato salad Crackers 

Pickles Eadishes Pimolas 

ndividual sweet shortcakes Strawberries and cream 

Strawberrv ice cream Strawberrv eclairs 

Sponge cake Angel cake Small cakes 

Coffee Chocolate 

A few recipes for cakes and preserves may help in 
preparing the supper and sale: 

Individual Sweet Shortcakes — ^Beat three eggs light, 
add one cupful of fine granulated sugar, and beat again. 



3XO THB GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTKSS 



Add one cupful of sifted flour mixed with one teaspdl 
fill of cream of tartar and one-half teaspoon fill of i^ 
Add three tahlespoonfuls of milk. Beat well and hj 
in slightly buttered cupcake tins in a quick oven. Wl 
cold remove the centers and fill the cases with crusl 
sweetened strawberries and cover with sweetei 
whipped cream. These cakes are uiucIl better to sa 
for a supper than the usual shortcake, which needs 
be eaten as soon as it is baked. A cold, soggy shortci 
is a dish to avoid. 

Strawherrtj Eclairs — Boil together in a saucepan (J 
cupful of boiling water, one-fourth cupful of but! 
and a speck of salt. As it begins to boil, stir in o 
cupful of sifted flour. Stir constantly until the ml 
ture leaves the sides of the pan and cleaves togtt 
in a ball. AVhen partly cool add four ^^^y beating tlv 
in one at a time. Drop carefully in long narrow stri] 
some distance apart,' on buttered tins, and bake in 
moderate oven until well risen — about thirtv mi nub 
Leave the oven door open a few minutes before remd 
ing the eclairs, to prevent their falling. When they a 
cool split one side, fill with sweetened strawberries > 
jam. Spread with boiled icing colored with strai 
berry juice. 

Canned Strawberries — Hull and wash perfect fm 
and pack it into jars. To each quart allow one-ha 
pound of sugar and one cupful of water. Boil this ini 
a syrup and fill each jar two-thirds full. Screw on ^ 
covers loosely, place the jars on a rack in a boiler tw( 
thi|:ds full of tepid water. Cover, and when the wata 



CHURCH AFFAIRS 311 



Ib allow twelve minutes' cooking. Remove the jars 
1, table, fill them brimming full with hot syrup. Put 
the rubbers and Bcrew on tlie covers firmly. 

Preserved Strawberries — Hull and wash the fruit. 
low three-fourths pound of sugar to one pound of 
lit. Place the berries and sugar in layers in a large 
rcelain howl and let it stand over night. In the morn- 
5 drain off the juice and heat it in a preserving kettle, 
ting it boil for fifteen minutes. Then add the fruit 
id when it boils skim if necessary and fill into hot jars, 
aling them closely. A thicker preserve or jam is made 
f alloA^ng one pound of sugar to each pound of fruit 
id boiling from twenty to thirty minutes and storing 
I glasses, like jelly. 

Strawberry Jelly — Select perfect fruit, firm and even 
i size. Lay aside the best;, about half, and press the 
iiice from the rest. Strain, and to each pound (pint) 
f juice allow one pound of sugar and boil fully twenty 
ainutes. Weigh the selected fruit and add an equal 
juantity of sugar. Add to the jelly and boil carefully 
\ few minutes. No exact time can be given. Try a 
ittle in a saucer and when the iellv seems thick and 
irni pour it into glasses. Seal M'lien cold. This is not 
IL very firm jelly, but is delicious. — American Kitchen 
t^Iagazine. 

j Sunshine Strawberries — Select dark colored fruit. 
Cook three pounds of fine granulated sugar with two 
pupfuls of boiling water without stirring, till a thread 
will spin, when the syrup is dropped from a spoon. Cook 
the berries in this syrup for fifteen minutes af tej: they 



3ia THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTBSS 

begin to boil. Pour the preserve on large platters, 
with gauze and let it stand in the sun for two or 
days until very thick. Store in glasses and cover 
a paper. — Boston Cooking School. 

t<trawbernj Sherbet — Use one quart of berry ]\ 
iinw cupfuls of sugar, the juice of two lemons, 
pints of water and a few whole strawberries. Sen 
a punch bowl with a block of ice, or freeze for frap] 

A CHURCH SUPPER 

By Mrs. A. R. i 

The annual pay supjK»r of the women's niissionl 
society ol" our cl urch has always been a trial and 
vexation, until affairs reached a climax. The en 
was large and unruly, and the disgraceful si)ectacle 
witnessed of newcomers standing behind the chain 
those who were seated and clamoring for haste on 
l)art of the diners. In this rush the diners were poc 
served, the tables soon lost all semblance of dain tin^ 
the waste of food was outrageous and toilets and t€ 
pers suffered. A radical change was decided upon a 
the sequel proves the plan a success. We arranged f(l 
long tables in the hall where the supper was servj 
each table capable of accommodating fifty. When \ 
first fifty people had lined up in the anteroom for thj 
supper, they were admitted to Table N'o. 1, and f 
doorkeeper was instructed to prevent any further entrii 
The. fifty were daintily served with oyster stew, crac 
ersj :pickles, celery, rolls and butter, and for this U 



CHURCH AFFAIRS 3x3 

ITse in the menu, one coupon from tickets was 
^hed. At the end of seven minutes a gong sounded 
i the first fifty diners advanced decently and in 
ier to Table No. 2. In three minutes Table No. 1 
B brushed and reset and the second installment of 
ty from the anteroom was admitted and received 
Rctly the same treatment as the first fifty. The few 
, the anteroom who were in excess of fifty awaited 
thout grumbling, secure in the knowledge that in ten 
inutes their turn would come. At Table No. 2, the 
enu was Boston baked beans, pickled cabbage, brown 
•ead, salad and preserves, and a second coupon wns 
jtached. At the end of seven minutes the gong sounded 
jain and the first fifty advanced to Table No. 3, 
;id those at Table No. 1 advanced to Table No. 2. 
Wee minutes were devoted to brushing and resetting 
jie tables, and then the third installment of fifty was 
Emitted from the anteroom to Table No. 1. At Table 
fo. 3, the menu included turkey and all its accompani- 
ments, mashed potatoes, cranberry sauce, slaw, olives 
pd hot biscuit and butter, coffee and doughnuts, and a 
|iird coupon was detached. At the end of seven min- 
ftes_, the diners advunced once more, the first fifty (or 
many as desired of this number) to Table No. 4. 

able No. 4 was known as an "extra," and to this only 
oldefs of ^^four-coiipon" tickets were privileged. At 

able No. 4, ice cream, cake, fruits and confectionery 
l^ere served. Those who did not desire the extra quietly 
passed from the supper room. This supper, as stated, 
proved a success. At no time was there a clamoring 



3X4 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTKSS 

crowfl in the anteroom. At the tables the diners shi 
exactly alike and were served simultaneously, 
business man \vith scant time at his disposal seci 
an ample moal within half an hour, and above all tl 
was no waste of food. Each plate was set before 
(liner with an impartial and amply sufficient allot] 
of food, and in almost eyery case the plate was cleai 
Late in the eyenin<]j as the diners decreased in numl 
they were admitted in squads of twenty-five and 
a lesser number. But the idea of progression was rigH 
maintained throughout. We sold our **four-cou] 
tickets for fifty cents and the "three-coupon'^ ticl 
for thirty-five cents. 

A CHARITY POST BOX 
By Mary Dawson 

A charity fair in the south brought out some frel 
ways of drawing in the dimes and dollars for a goi 
cause. One clever little idea took the form of a pd 
box, a wee booth fitted up with a window at either sii 
where letters were sold for charity. A pretty gi 
acted as postmistress. From one side she delivert 
the men^s letters, from the reyerse side those of tl 
women- Anyone paying a quarter received a lette 
In the men^s side the mail was prepared by the girl 
of the neighborhood. The girls' side was fitted oi 
by the men. The envelopes were addressed simply "T 
the Charitable.'' Sometimes they contained liyely littl 



CHURCH AFFAIRS 315 

jters; others revealed a laughable verse or a sketch or 
eamera snapshot. In every ease the communication 
^ signed with the name of the correspondent, author, 
tist or photographer, as the case might be. The price 
r each envelope was twentv-five cents, irrespective of 
p contents. As it was known that each popular man 
\d girl in the neighborhood had contributed at least 
^ee, and often as many as six times, the box was con- 
fmtly surrounded by eager venturers desirous of obtain- 
g a souvenir from the pen of a certain man or a certain 
jrl. Reckless plungers invested half a dozen times 
^fore the desired memento was secured. Within two 
>urs' time the postmistress was obliged to confess that 
ill mail had been distributed.^' 



FOR THE SUNDAY SCHOOI. 
By G. F. S. 

A pretty entertainment was planned and carried 
fut for fifteen Sunday school pupils by a teacher at the 
ihurch parlors. Small paper and envelopes were used 
ior the invitations, which ran like this: ^'Miss S. S. 
irill entertain her Sunda}' school class at the church 
parlors Saturday afternoon at 2.30 o'clock. You are 
(nvited to this peanut party .'^ The scholars (all girls 
fii this case) were prompt, and on the arrival of the 
fifteen w^ere told to find the peanuts. . After a success- 
pH hunt, they were allowed to eat them at the kinder- 
garten tables, and while they were eating, the teacher 



3i6 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



prepared the peanut race. Rows of peanuts, seven ii 
row, were placed on the floor, knives were given 
the girls, and the fun began. The peanuts must 
carried on the knife to a basket, and so on, one 
one, till the girl whose row was done first secured i 
prize, a box of peanut candy. Next chairs were plai 
in a row, one ready to sit in, the next back to fro^ 
and so on alternately ; seven peanuts were placed in ed 
of the fifteen chairs. The scholars marched aromj 
the chairs to the sound of music and as the teachj 
stopped, grabbed a peanut from the front of a chaj 
and so on. Sometimes the teacher stopped playii 
quickly, sometimes there was a longer march; in 
never knew just when the music would cease. At tl 
close, the girl having the most peanuts received a U 
of peanut fudge, and the others were allowed to 
their captures. For the next and last amusement, 
scholars stood in tw^o rows opposite one another, 
teacher joining the game that there might* be eight q 
a side. A basket of ten peanuts was placed at ti 
head of each row ; at the word "go," the leader beffl 
took up one peanut^ passed it to second, who passed 
to third and so on, the leader meanwhile having picke 
up another and passed it on. No girl was allowed 1 
have more than one peanut in her hands at one tiin< 
The row that won received all the peanuts, to be oate! 
by them. At tlio kindergarten tables refresJimeni 
were passed, consisting of sandwiches, pickles, peann 
cheeseballs, frosted cookies, small round sugared dougft 
nuts, chocolate and cocoanut cake. 



CHURCH AFFAIRS 317 



SUNDAY HOURS 
By H. C. C. 

With a gathering of children whose intentions 
for spending Sunday had been defeated by bad 
weather, the following impromptu amusement proved 
most successful : 

For the foundation of play, take one of the inter- 
esting tales of the Old Testament. Bead this story to 
the child audience, abridging it as much as possible, so 
they will get merely the simple lines of the tale. After 
apportioning to each child one character or several 
unimportant ones, to be represented by paper figures 
cut from old magazines, set the scene and begin the 
pla3\ The children will be intensely interested in pro- 
viding proper figures, such as a baby Moses for Phara- 
oh-s daughter to find, a suitable young man for Joseph, 
a harp for the young David. Indeed, there is as much 
entertainment and instruction in the mere getting ready 
as in the play itself. Then there are accessories for the 
scene to be found and arranged, all of which the boys 
will furnish with enthusiasm. For the movement of the 
play again read the tale aloud, and each child will carry 
his paper figure through the neccessary performance. 
This game possesses so much of charm that, in one 
household at least, it closes with an excitement like 
that experienced in reading a story "to be continued,'' 
at the most thrilling point. It makes our little folks' 
conceptions of the life of the "chosen people'' more 
definite. 



SPECIAL OCCASIONS 319 

SUPPERS AND A FAGOT PARTY 
By Linda Hall Lamed 

A group of social lights decided last Thanksgiving 
to have a series of suppers conducted upon the samo 
lines as the beloved dinner dance of a decade ago. The 
result was really delightful — suppers of six at five dif- 
ferent houses at which the courses were limited to four. 
The brief supper was chosen as being easy to prepare, 
and one of the guests opened her house, a large colonial 
one, for the fagot party which was the wind-up. 

One supper was served on a round mahogany table 
with embroidered doilies and white chrysanthemums for 
decoration. A centerpiece of silver and glass filled with 
the flowers was surrounded by six crystal candlesticks 
in which were vellow fluted candles. These were held 

ft' 

in by a circle of chrysanthemums in shallow tin recep- 
tacles about an inch and a half wide, which are mada 
in sections to be adjusted to any table. 

The fagot party was a gathering of this merry 
crowd around a big fireplace, a veritable ingle nook in 
w^hich there were arrangements for a real fire of wood. 
To every guest was given a small bunch of fagots to 
burn, and as each guest was called up to replenish the 
fire he began his "stunt" with the first twig laid on 
and did not finish until the last one was in ashes. The 
actor who succeeded best in amusing the audience 
received a prize and the one who failed, a. consolation. 
One person gave a clever imitation of Mr. Dooley au«l 



320 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

" ' I 

liis impression of the St. TiOuis convention, even to the . 
Bryan weep. Then some nimble dame gave a Loie 
Fuller skirt dance with the aid of a voluminous Mother 
Hubbard of pink cheesecloth prepared and donned for 
the occasion. Another told a story of real adventure 
which was both amusing alnd pathetic, and still another 
gave a fair representation of a folk-lore story teller. , 
A ventriloquist and prestidigitator kept the audien*5e 
amused, and then a beautiful voice was heard in the 
gamut of songs, from In the Garden of Sleep to Bedelia. 
The enjoyment culminated with the refreshments, 
consisting of a large bowl of mulled cider on a huge 
silver tray. The bowls were brought in on another tray 
and so were sandwiches and crullers. The cider was 
"mulled'^ after the following recipe: To one quart of 
cider, add one teaspoon of whole spice and a half tea- 
spoon of cassia buds, boil three minutes, add three egg^^ 
beaten thoroughly and serve at once. This amount 
would serve six persons. On the tray surrounding the 
bowl were dozens of burning "snapdragons." Theso 
were large plumped raisins soaked in alcohol. The}' 
were set on fire before the attention of the company was 
called, and then each guest was given a small bowl and 
told to "snap" as many dragons as he or she could into 
the bowl while they were still burning. This is easier 
than it seems, as the burning alcohol will not harm the 
fingers. Each one's bowl was examined and the one 
having the most received the prize. Then the hot cider 
was poured into the bowl, the raisins adding to the 
flavor. 



u 



I- 



I 



« 

fc 

t 



f 
r 

1 

■'I 



i 



1 



I ,-^ 



U^ 






% > 



% 









r' 



1 

■ 






.1 

r 



« » 



t 



i 



■ 



i« 



i 



1 » V* 




Class jDLnn 
Book . G : G 4- 
GopghtN 

COFflttGHT UEPOSrr. 



TIE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING 

hostess: 




> 



' 



*. 



1 



f 



Jf " 



\ 



h 







f~ 






THE 
GOOD HOUSEKEEPING 

HOSTESS 



ENTERTAINMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS 

AND OCCASIONS, DESCRIBED IN DETAIL BY A GROUP 

OF ACCOMPLISHED ENTERTAINERS 

ALSO 

THE COMPLETE RULES OF ETIQUETTE AND SOCIAL 
OBSERVANCE FOR THE HOSTESS 



THE PHELPS PUBLISHING CO 

NewYoik Springfield, Mass Chicago 



LIBRARY Cf CONGRESS 


Two Copies Received 


DEC 19 1904 


n Gopyngnt Entry 
JtAjLf / 3. J9o V- 
HBLASS #, XXC Noi 

COPY 8. 



<>5 



COPYRIGHT, I904, BY THE PHELPS PUBLISHING CO 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PAGE 

SOCIAL LIFE 3-21 

Sundry Obligations 3 

Issuing and Receiving Invitations 1 

Cards 7 

The Christening . . • 8 

Children's Parties 10 

Coming-out Parties 11 

Luncheons and Breakfasts 13 

Formal Dinners 15 

Weddings 17 

In Bereavement 19 

Wedding Anniversaries 20 

DINNERS 25-93 

A Dainty June Dinner 25 

An Abbreviated Dinner 32 

A Company Dinner 38 

The Harvest Home 43 

The Winter Feast 52 

An Indian Dinner 61 

A Harvest Dinner 62 

Artistic Dinner Decorations 69 

A Chinese Dinner (illustrated) 71 

A Birthday Party (illustrated) 77 

A Cherry Blossom Dinner (illustrated) 86 

A "Cold Comfort" Dinner 90 

An Omar Khayyam Dinner 91 

A Literary Dinner 92 

A Toy Dinner 93 



CONTENTS 



l'AOE 

LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 97-146 

A Springtime Luncheon (illustrated) 97 

A Chicago Luncheon 106 

For Independence Day 107 

A University Luncheon Ill 

In Mexican Style 115 

A Circus Luncheon 120 

A Corn Luncheon 122 

Eve's Luncheon 120 

A Chinese Luncheon 127 

Easter Luncheons (illustrated) 131 

Ten- Cent Luncheons (illustrated) 137 

A May Time Luncheon 141 

A Curiosity Tea 143 

A Spinster's Tea 145 

A Sofa Pillow Tea 140 

PARTIES FOR CHILDREN 149-171 

A Happy Christening (illustrated) : 149 

A Paper Party 151 

A Winter Picnic (illustrated) 157 

For the Little Folks (illustrated) 162 

A "Three-Year-Okr Party 170 

BOYS' AND GIRLS' PARTIES 175-188 

Walking Letters 175 

A Big Game Hunt 176 

Easter Fun and Easter Feasting 181 

Two Jolly Evenings 186 

PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS = 191-215 

The Dicker Party 191 

A Hap-Hazard Eoof Party 192 

A Monotype Party (illustrated) 105 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 



A Grown-Up Children's Parly 202 

A Cinderella Party 204 

For Card Parties 205 

A Pumpkin Party 207 

Tally Cards 208 

A Hayseed Carnival 209 

Tableaus 210 

A Chrysanthemum Cotillion (illustrated).... 211 

A Wigwam Dance 212 

February Parties 213 

A Civic Evening - 215 

WEDDING PARTIES 219-228 

A Bridesmaids' Tea 210 

A Hausfrau Luncheon 220 

A Golden Wedding 221 

The Celebration of Wedding Anniversaries. .. 223 

HALLOWEEN PARTIES , 231-253 

Halloween Frolics 231 

A Nutting Party 232 

Fishing for Fate 23 i 

A Halloween Party. . 23C 

A Real Halloween 241 

A Halloween Cobweb Party 247 

Suggestions for Halloween (illustrated) 24i> 

HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 257-282 

A Spelling Bee 2.">< 

The Thanksgiving Table • • 258 

A Bachelor's Thanksgiving Dinner (illus- 
trated) 261 

A Jest Christmas Tree 268 

A Twentieth-Century Christmas Tree 271 

An Innovation 2 <4 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 

OTHER SPECIAL OCCASIONS 285-299 

A Birthday Party 285 

Valentine Contests 286 

A Heart Party for February 14 287 

A Washington's Birthday Party 291 

A St. Patrick's Day Party 294 

An April Fool's Evening 296 

CHURCH AFFAIRS 303-320 

The Strawberry Festival 303 

A Church Supper 312 

A Charity Post Box 314 

For the Sunday School 315 

Sunday Hours .-. 317 

Suppers and a Fagot Party (illustrated) 318 



SOCIAL LIFE 



SOCIAL LIFE 

Sundry Obligations 

IT sometimes happens in our experience that though 
we possess many beautiful and valuable bits of 
information, we lack that very one for which we 
have immediate need, and like the lady who glories in 
nine rose point berthas and perforce remains away from 
the horse show for want of linen collar and cuffs, we may 
know quite glibly that the nation's chief in far-away 
Washington is addressed as His Excellency, and yet 
pucker our brows in vain bewilderment as to whether 
plain little next-door Lucy is our dear Mrs. Gray or' 
simply dear Lucy since she came home from the 
honeymoon. 

Perhaps it will help a little if we remember that 
all conventions are in their final analysis dictated by 
the heart and based on the golden rule. They may 
have been cut long ago at some grand court, and dried 
through usage among the gentlefolk of many lands, and 
yet they are less arbitrary than would seem at first 
thought. Rules of etiquette have always been equally 
binding on all members of the set which uses them, 
and as my lady is sometimes guest and on other occa- 
sions hostess, it would plainly be but natural for her 
to advocate the least irksome duty for each class; 
besides which is the fact that truly well-bred people 
regulate their conduct by kindly feeling for each other. 



4 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

To be sure there are the fads which crop up from 
year to year, and the improper use of forks and finger 
bowls has been made such a bogie that many a woman, 
on her way to a large dinner, trembles at thought of 
the ordeal before her. But no lady need really fear. 
Table etiquette, like all the rest, is primarily to protect 
us from unpleasing spectacles; and it is by no means 
impossible for a gentlewoman to handle her asparagus 
in an old-fashioned manner without losing caste, while 
the person next her conforms to the fad of the day and 
yet offends by a too-evident enjoyment of her salad. 

If, then, you are not sure as to the exact require- 
ment in certain social obligations, and have no way oi 
finding out, do the thing you would consider graceful 
and kind were you in the position of the other person 
concerned ; and above all things, keep on your face the 
calm smile of self-possession, which goes so far to prove 
that you know what you are about. 

Issuing and Receiving Invitations 

Formal intercourse with our kind is regulated b\ 
old customs which are amended from time to time. Ii 
you are the entertainer and set out to be ceremonious 
then put yourself into the hands of the best stationei 
you can afford, and take his word for the correctness 
of your invitations. 

Strictly speaking, a handsome engraved invitation 
presupposes an entertainment of equal grandeur; and 
you may well hesitate and consider, before issuing such, 
whether your purse will permit you to fulfill what 



SOCIAL LIFE 



would seem to be the promise of the message. In large 
formal functions you must probably have aid from the 
caterer and the florist as well as the stationer ; in which 
case you will almost be a guest in your own house, and 
must certainly betray no care of cooking or serving; 
in fact, you must guard against flurry in even the 
simplest hospitality. 

Outside of the large centers of fashion the average 
x^merican woman has little time, or indeed taste, for 
strictly formal functions ; but throughout the land there 
blossoms a love for social meeting with one's friends, 
and never was there a time in our history when happy 
little circles and gatherings flourished as now. 

The invitations for less formal entertainments may 
be written in conventional third-person wording, fol- 
lowing the form of the engraved card. It is more 
common, however, when your intention is to gather 
together a party of friends for real pleasure, to be 
committed to nothing more conventional than good 
paper and ink, a fair penmanship (that the guests come 
not on Tuesday when your cook's orders are for two 
days later), and a respect for the age and the 
idiosyncrasies of the spelling book. The letters 
]?. S. V. P., and even the later English form of 
requesting an answer to an invitation, have gone out 
of fashion : since the rule of reply is supposed to be an 
understood thing. 

To the receiver of invitations the rule of reply is 
comparatively simple: 1 You follow the "lead of the 
person who has invited you. If the invitation is for- 



6 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

mally worded in the third person, your reply is similarly 
worded; and if a personal note bids you to a friend's 
house, you answer in an unconventional note. 

Invitations for receptions, ceremonious weddings, 
teas where many people are to be present, and all enter- 
tainments where the crowd would have to be provided 
for in any case, and your absence could not cause 
inconvenience, require no acknowledgment. If you go 
(except in case of church weddings) you leave a card, 
and if you do not attend 3-011 send your card, enclosed 
in an envelope, and preferably by messenger to be 
delivered during the entertainment. 

Invitations to dinners, breakfasts, luncheons, the 
opera, and in fact all entertainments where special 
place is to be kept for you, must be answered imme- 
diately. This is one of the most rigid rules of good 
breeding, since it is easily understood that no hostess 
can give her mind calmly to preparation until she has 
her list of guests complete. If you doubt your ability 
to attend you must decline at onee and give your friend 
I the opportunity to ask someone else. Once made, an 
engagement may be properly broken for but one cause 
— outside of illness or grave trouble — namely a con- 
flicting invitation from the President of these United 
States, and did we observe this rule there would be few 
chagrined or slighted hostesses in most parts of the 
country. 

In declining invitations it is always more courteous 
to give your reason, though of course this is not possible 
in all cases. * 



SOCIAL LIFE 



Iii a general way it may be said that every invita- 
tion, whether accepted or not, requires a call upon the 
hostess within two or three weeks after the entertain- 
ment ; but a breach in the case of general receptions 
or teas would be more easily forgiven than after dinners, 
luncheons (any feast where you have eaten at a place 
assigned specially to you), and those functions whose 
raison d'etre is to introduce a debutante or to honor 
some particular person or occasion. 

Cards 

It will not be amiss in closing this chapter on 
general matters of etiquette, to mention that small, but 
like the hairpin, indispensable aid to civilization, the 
visiting card. As with engraved invitations, you must 
advise with the stationer about size, thickness and type, 
for these things vary from season to season; though it 
is safe to say that a neat inconspicuous lettering, either 
Old English or script, is always in good taste. Initials 
are tabooed, the full name being always engraved on 
the card. If, as happens in many a home of the best 
culture, the hostess herself opens the door, you lay the 
cards quietly on some table when you rise to leave, one 
card for each lady of the household, whether you have 
seen them all or not. If there is a maid or a man 
servant, you put your bits of pasteboard into the salver 
offered you for that purpose; and for the sake of those 
unconventional souls who are- not afraid -to -approach a 
friend's door because cards hav« been forgotten, we -can 
only rejoice that all servants are not as zealous as the 



8 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

negro maid who half shut the door in a lady's face, 
and said through the narrow crack : "You-all sho can't 
git into we-alPs house ef you ain't got airy ticket." 

The visiting card may be used as invitation to teas 
and afternoon receptions by having the hour and date 
written in the lower left-hand corner ; and it may carry 
messages of congratulation, condolence, or greeting with 
gifts, written on the back and signed with name or 
initials; but it is never used to carry thanks for any 
courtesy, in which case a note must be written. 

Finally, it will bear repetition that conventional- 
ities are based on a kindly desire to meet our fellows 
on common ground, where all may be at ease, and where 
none is required to give up all individual characteristics, 
but only to conform to those rules which are a neces- 
sity in any body of men and women. 



SPECIAL OCCASIONS 

The Christening 

My lady first meets the friends of her family when 
they are bidden to gather for her christening, or, in 
case that ceremony be not a part of her inheritance, she 
may be introduced at an old-time caudle party. Except 
for the religious service in the former, these two func- 
tions are practically^ the same, and on either occasion 
it is the most intimate of all the family feasts, only 
those people you really care for being honored with the 
engraved cards, or the notes asking their presence. 



SOCIAL LIFE 



The sponsors are requested by special note, or 
verbally, to act in that capacity, and tradition has it 
that the honor is prettily thanked with a gift of silver, 
a cup or porringer, or perhaps a spoon, for the infant. 
Other guests may send flowers to the mother, or gifts 
to the baby, though neither is obligatory. 

The hour is chosen according to my lady's sleepy 
time, for it is well to make as sure as possible of her 
gracious smiles by avoiding any infringement on her 
nap. She may be only six weeks old, and is like a pink 
rosebud as the nurse carries her about for the com- 
pany's admiration after the ceremony. She is dressed 
in the finest and softest gown that can be afforded, ail 
the better if it has been handed down from other family 
christenings ; two rosettes of baby ribbon, white, of 
course, on the shoulders show that it is "full dress" for 
her tiny ladyship ; and custom likes a small posy of 
white blossoms tucked in somewhere about her. 

She is carried away before long, and refreshments 
are served, perhaps the traditional caudle, a hot drink 
made of spiced and sweetened oatmeal water, but the 
equally old dish formerly concocted for the father and 
his men friends no longer appears, a fact which no 
one need regret. This was a mixture of sweetened, 
buttered toast, with boiling beer poured over; and for 
each piece of toast a man took from the big bowl, he 
put in a piece of money for the baby's nurse. 

The simplest', and to. many people the most refined 
form of refreshment, is a good wine passed with cake 
in the parlor. But perhaps the most general thing 



io THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

nowadays is a luncheon, at which the decorations and 
the dishes should be white as far as possible. 

Children's Parties 

Miss Baby - thus makes her first bow at an early 
age, but for the next years she keeps to her nursery, 
growing in sweetness and beauty all the time, until her 
days of children's parties come. The invitations for 
these give room for any amount of prettiness and inge- 
nuity. They may be written by the mother, or the child 
may pen them in his or her own wabbly characters; 
they may be in rhyme, or may be decorated with tiny 
water colors of Mother Goose people, or any other 
suitable subject. The little guests all reply as soon as 
possible, Inning also a wide range in the matter of 
their notes. 

There are a few secrets about making a party for 
little folks successful.- There should be as much music 
as possible; the games should be well planned before- 
hand, so that no drags occur; the refreshments must 
be simple and wholesome, and easily handled by chubby 
fingers; and. instead of one or two handsome prizes for 
skill in certain games, the aim should be to see that 
every child carries home some pretty trifle in the way 
of a favor. If the occasion is a birthday, and the 
guests bring gifts, good taste demands that these be 
simple and inexpensive; and a wise mother takes this 
occasion to teach my lady the why of removing cards 
from presents, explaining that their display invites 
comparison; which is. .unpleasant. 



SOCIAL LIFE 



Indeed the value of these little parties as an oppor- 
tunity to inculcate the principles of good breeding is 
very great; for the man or woman who learns manners 
and deportment before the age of ten never loses them 
in the sixty or more years of after life. 

My lady and her brothers will go to children's 
parties until well on in their teens, when gradually 
they find themselves siding off into informal clubs and 
societies at church and at school. The girls meet 
together from house to house, either to sew dainty 
things for charity, or to twang their mandolins and 
guitars; and the girl hostess has her first experiences 
with the chafing-dish and ice cream freezer. Occa- 
sionally they entertain their brothers; and though the 
thanks are apt to take the form of teasing and making 
fun, everybody knows the boys enjoy the feasts, else 
why do they take the girls coasting, or coax their 
mothers for little dances and Saturday matinee parties? 

Coming-Out Parties 

All this time my lady may have her visiting card 
if she likes, bearing her full name, Elizabeth Martin 
Graham, either with or without the prefix Miss, and 
never using a pet name or diminutive. When she is 
to be introduced into society her name is engraved on 
her mother's card, thus : 

Mrs. Alfred Rogers Graham 

Miss Graham 

and according to strict convention she must call with 



12 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

her mother altogether, and wait a year before she can 
have cards of her own again (using her schoolgirl 
ones for very informal affairs), after which the bits pf 
pasteboard will be engraved Miss Graham. 

The introduction is made at a tea or reception 
given by the girl's mother ; and engraved invitations 
announcing that Mrs. Alfred Eogers Graham (with Miss 
Graham's name underneath) will be at home on. such 
a day from 4 until 7, are sent to every lady and 
gentleman, irrespective of age, with whom the mother 
desires to keep up her social relations. It is an unfor- 
givable slight to be left out of the number invited to 
meet one's friend's daughter. 

The invitations require no acknowledgment, but 
flowers may be sent to the girl; and the debutante of 
to-day has little enough pleasure in this first reception 
beyond the flowers she receives ; for whereas her mother, 
some twenty odd years ago, was introduced by a grand 
ball, and danced the night away without a touch of 
responsibility, my lady is simply and girlishly dressed, 
with high neck and long sleeves, and spends the time 
soberly standing at the door by her mother's side, to 
receive the guests as they come. One of the points a 
well-bred woman makes on this occasion is to present 
the girl to the guests, and not the guests to the 
debutante. 

The visitors speak with their hostesses a minute 
or two and then greet other friends; and it may be 
remarked here that even in the most informal call a 
man or woman of good manners always speaks to the 



SOCIAL LIFE 13 



hostess before recognizing anyone else who may be 
present. It is a mark of ill-breeding among the guests 
if the mother and daughter are left standing alone at 
the door; but when others crowd about them you may 
pass on into the room where refreshments are being 
served, and may finally slip away without good-byes. 
Even this apparent rudeness has its reason in a nicety 
of feeling, and the present-day function is all the pleas- 
anter for not being broken up by the alarm of the first 
retiring guest's expression of thanks. 

My lady is now grown up, and Is invited to all 
the entertainments given by her mother's friends; and 
of course she knows that to get pleasure from social 
intercourse with men and women she must be 
dominated by the social feeling — the desire and 
determination to be happy in things as they come, 
rather than to set her heart in certain directions and 
strive to bend the world that way. She is, therefore, 
sweet-tempered and smiling on all occasions, witty only 
when her sharpness is complimentary, with eyes and 
cars and heart open to other people's charms, and deaf 
and blind to those unpleasantnesses which are sure to 
occur in her presence from time to time. 



LUNCHEONS, DINNERS AND WEDDINGS 

Luncheons and Breakfasts 

After nibbling at all the gayeties in turn, my lady 
finds that nothing is more real pleasure than a luncheon. 



14 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

It may be a formal affair in honor of some visiting lady 
—men and luncheons rarely go together — or just a small 
gathering of friends to chat over a dainty dish - for 
which the hostess is famed in her admiring circle. In 
either case wines are going. out of style, and effervescent 
waters are more and more used in their place. All one's 
artistic taste may be used in decorating the luncheon 
table, as it belongs more individually to the hostess 
than that for the soberer dinner; and though fashion 
declares favors out of grace just now, it is no offense 
against good form to have at each place some trifle 
which by its pleasant humor will add to the merriment 
of the party. 

In fact, conventionality has never got a good grip 
on the luncheon; and though engraved cards are some- 
times used and elaborate courses follow each other on 
the dainty table, nobody wants to be stiff, and any 
agreeable innovation on the part of the hostess is sure 
to be appreciated. 

When luncheon is announced the hostess leads the 
way to the dining room without formality, and seats her 
guests, and if she is wise she has thought out the matter 
of congenial neighbors with as much care as for a 
dinner; or she may find place cards convenient, and 
they are entirely correct. 

The hour for luncheon is usually half after 1, 
the matter of time being its chief distinction from 
a -breakfast, as the -latter is served at noon ; though 
another point -of difference is that while luncheons are 
frequently given without any more particular meaning 



SOCIAL LIFE 



i5 



than the enjoyment, breakfasts come after certain 
ceremonies or occasions, as for instance, a wedding 
breakfast or a hunt breakfast. 

Formal Dinners 

Dinners are the weightiest of all entertainment, 
from every point of view, and despite the present 
movement toward simplicity of food, the courses remain 
as many and as elaborate as the hostess dares under- 
take, but she must surely not dare more than she can 
carry through. 

People who give many dinners keep on hand 
engraved invitation cards, into which the name and 
date are written. These are sent out about two weeks 
in advance, or earlier if the guest is apt to be very 
much engaged. Every member of the household who 
is to be present at the table should be in the drawing 
room to greet the arriving guests; and guests should 
avoid with equal care a too early and a tardy arrival. 
The dinner hour varies from half after G to 8 o'clock. 

The formal practice of having a servant present to 
each man guest a salver from which he takes an envel- 
ope addressed to himself containing on the card the 
name of his partner for dinner, is obviated at most 
home dinners by more original and often entertaining 
devices. The host with the chief lady guest passes to 
the farther end of the dining room, the other couples 
follow more or less formally, the hostess coming last 
with the man she wishes to honor. 



16 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

It is quite within the bounds of good taste for the 
table to be lavish witji silver, fine linen and flowers, 
but there must be no useless pieces ; everything must 
fill a need, and the tout ensemble must have the appear- 
ance of being planned for the convenience and delight 
of the guests and not for vulgar display of wealth. The 
lighting must be so arranged as to throw nobody into a 
disagreeable or unbecoming shadow, and the decorations 
should not be high enough to obstruct the view between 
any two persons. 

The forks are used as they come, beginning with 
the outermost one. If one wishes to decline wine, it 
is done by a quiet word or gesture to the servant. 

It is correct in these sensible times to enjoy 
the goodly feast set before you, keeping your enjoy- 
ment within bounds, and doing your part toward the 
dinner talk. 

The hostess gives the sign to rise and the men 
stand until the ladies have passed out, then return to 
the table for wine and cigars, while coffee is served in 
the drawing room. If one woman is specially honored 
by the dinner, she is the first to leave, about an hour 
after the men have returned to the drawing room; and 
it need hardly be mentioned that any entertainment 
where one has been feasted in a particularly reserved 
seat and one of an exclusively chosen party demands 
good-byes and a pleasant word of appreciation to the 
hostess. Xo slipping away after a dinner, luncheon 
or breakfast. 



SOCIAL LIFE 17 



Weddings 

One morning in May after my lady has been out 
some two years, the postman leaves at the door of a 
certain house a large thick white envelope, sealed and 
bearing a two-cent stamp. Mrs. Bennett opens it at 
the tete-a-tete breakfast and hands it to her husband, 
with the comment that she knew it could not be put 
off much longer, Bess was too pretty, and Mr. Bennett 
reads in Old English engraved letters: 

Dr. and Mrs. Alfred Rogers Graham 

request the honor of 

Mr. and Mrs. Bennett's 

presence at the marriage of their daughter 

Elizabeth Martin 

and 

Mr. Thomas Mason 

on Wednesday, June the eighth 

at twelve o'clock 

Grace Church 

"May weddings are unluck} r ," his wife adds, "I am 
glad they put it well into June." 

Presents begin to pour into the Graham house, and 
my lady, being trained in gentle manners from her 
babyhood, arranges them to be looked at; and when she 
takes off the cards makes a note on each one of just 
which gift it accompanied, lest she forget before she is 
well accustomed to the many new possessions. In her 
note of thanks to each friend she mentions the article 



18 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

specifically, thus showing that she is not careless of it 
nor of the giver; 

All the shopping and sewing is finished a week 
before the wedding day, and my lady devotes the time, 
the prospective groom being considerate on this point, 
to her parents and brothers. She has many things to 
arrange, however; she asks certain girl friends to be 
her attendants, the dearest of all the maid (sometimes 
matron) of honor, and plans with them their gowns, 
remembering to select fabric and style suitable for other 
occasions later on, in case the girls be not well-to-do. 

After the wedding there is a reception at the home 
of the bride's parents, and so quietly have the plans 
been laid that while the guests are enjoying the lunch- 
eon at the small tables scattered * through three rooms, 
somebody laughingly calls out that the young couple is 
stealing into a carriage to slip off to the train. Then 
there is a merry scramble to the front door, and the 
traditional rice and old shoes are thrown after the 
already speeding carriage. The shoe custom has its 
meaning, so ^ays one authority at least, in the idea that 
the young husband with such a weapon may enforce the 
obedience promised at the altar. The honeymoon is 
spent at the country house of some friend, or on a house- 
boat, and after the four weeks a little trip across the 
waters is much favored in the smart set. 

Shortly after the wedding a call is due the bride's 
mother from each one who received an invitation, and 
the bride must also be called on as soon as she has 
returned and is settled down. 



SOCIAL LIFE 



19 



The next years bring a continuation of the gayeties 
of young ladyhood. It is not strictly good form for a 
young matron to chaperon girls no younger or less 
experienced than herself; neither she nor her husband 
may be invited alone to any function where both men 
and women are to be present, nor may one accept an 
invitation which the other declines, unless there is some 
unusual and very good reason, in which case the wife 
would go with her mother, or chaperoned like an 
unmarried woman. 

In Bereavement 

As life goes on, sorrows as well as joys come to 
my lady. Mr. Bennett, a family friend, dies, and 
flowers are sent to the house, no longer great set for jus, 
nor exclusively white and purple blossoms, but long- 
stemmed flowers of any color, tied with white satin 
ribbons. My lady calls on Mrs. Bennett, and though 
she does not see her, leaves a note expressing in a few 
simple words her affection and sympathy. The only 
possible comfort one can give in time of bereavement 
is the assurance that the sorrow is shared by all the 
circle of friends. It is not the time for a sermon but 
for words of human love. Where the number of letters 
of condolence is too large to be answered with personal 
notes, it is sometimes the custom of the mourning 
family to issue small black-bordered cards, engraved 
with a few lines of appreciation.. 



20 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

Wedding Anniversaries 

The first wedding anniversaries are celebrated 
with merrymakings of any kind that may be suitable. 
Friends shower the couple with tin, wooden and glass 
things in their proper turn; but when the silver 
wedding comes around eve^body is apt to have grown 
soberer. There is less frolicking, and more serious 
rejoicing; and as silver is of greater value than tin 
and wood, it is good form only for relatives and close 
friends to make gifts at this celebration. 

Happy is my lady in having her mother still beside 
her at the silver wedding; and when fifty years have 
passed since that June marriage day, and the golden 
wedding cards go out to the narrowing circle of old- 
time friends, thrice blessed is she because of the sons 
and daughters to the third generation gathered about 
her chair. The cards are engraved in gold, and bear 
the names of the one-time boy and girl, with the date 
of their marriage, above the invitation to the reception. 
In the lower left corner appear the words No presents ; 
for indeed my lady feels that she has had her share 
of the material things of earth, and that nothing can 
add one jot to the joy of seeing about her the faces of 
those she loves. She smiles serenely at the great cup 
her sons and grandsons bring to the white-haired lovers ; 
and says, as she strokes the head of the boy at her knee : 
"It is beautiful, but it is not purer gold than I have 
had in my life since I saw the curls of my first baby — 
your grandmother, my dear." 



SOCIAL LIFE 21 



And thus we may well leave her ; caressing the 
soft gplden hair of the youngest of her blood, her other 
hand clasped in that one which has led her tenderly 
and well from a blossoming maidenhood into the per- 
fect flower of a gracious and beauteous old age. 



DINNERS 



DINNERS 

A DAINTY JUNE DINNER 

By Anne Warner 

"And little recks to find the way to heaven 
By doing deeds of hospitality." — Shakespeare. 

COMMON sense and a little experience soon enable 
one who so wills it to be an easy, if unpretentious, 
dispenser of many forms of entertainment in a 
home — to become "given to hospitality." A dinner, 
however, should have something of a ceremonious char- 
acter ; the name carries with it certain obligations- and 
dignities. The true gourmet insists that at this meal, at 
least, the napery, the lights, the service, the materials 
and the cooking of them shall be the best to be obtained, 
circumstances considered, for the gourmet is also a phil- 
osopher, xi wise woman always endeavors to suit her 
menu to the season, and it is easy indeed to tempt the 
early summer appetite. Moderation is the golden rule 
of dinner giving, and quality, not quantity, is what 
pleases; overcrowding dishes is a mistake common to 
beginners, yet variety we all desire. With cold storage, 
quick transportation, kiln drying, modern canning and 
the hothouse, almost every delicacy may be had the year 
round — if the purse is long — but fortunately this con- 
dition of things does not take the keen edge of delight 
from the first native-grown asparagus or strawberries 



26 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

or early peas, home garden tomatoes or new potatoes. 
All through the spring, one good thing swiftly follows 
another, and the peculiar pleasure one has in fish, flesh 
and vegetahles comes from their absolute freshness. It 
seems to me that the labor of making sure that supplies 
are fresh is effort well expended. 

While upholding the dignity of the dinner table, 
I also believe in a degree of independence concerning 
certain accepted rules, latitude enough to allow every 
guest and every "peculiar" member of the family to 
enjoy himself to the full. I have lately read that "a 
hostess should never risk her reputation by serving 
butter at dinner' — and I still serve it! When tempted 
to leave off the butter plates I remember a certain 
holiday long ago when we were all bidden to a neigh- 
bors to dine. The children sat at a separate table, as 
small boys abounded in both families. Butter not 
being forthcoming, my youngest brother, after a brief 
consultation with the next older, left the festive board, 
ran home and returned with a pound roll of the desired 
lubricant, which his favored table proceeded to enjoy 
in all sobriety and innocence. I have often seen men at 
buttcrless dinners whom I know would have gladly run 
a mile to supply the deficiency, so why,' in all conscience, 
not offer butter to take or leave? For those to whom it 
seems as out of place at dinner as pie at breakfast — a 
gastronomic crime — it is well to instruct the cook to 
roll the biscuit dough very thin; cut it into strips and 
roll these on the board till even arid Well rounded ; brush 
with softened butter and : braid or twist. Cut into 



DINNERS 27 



finger-lengths and pinch the ends together. The pocket- 
book shape makes an excellent dinner roll because of 
the generous piece of butter which can be put between 
the "flaps" before raising. 

For the following dinner the table, covered with a 
fine cloth, was adorned further with a Benares brass 
tray twelve inches square, the center containing a cir- 
cular mound of wet moss filled with beautiful pansy 
blossoms of all colors. The tray was set cornerwise on 
a round centerpiece richly embroidered in yellow. Four 
antique brass candlesticks, holding candles with large 
fluffy yellow silk shades, stood at equal distances about 
the centerpiece. Above the table was suspended a bell- 
shaped piece of perforated brass — rescued from a curio 
shop — fitted with electric bulbs and having a deep 
fringe of tiny gilt-lined glass beads. This arrangement 
cast a soft and pleasant light, upon which the success 
of all decoration so largely depends. Beside each plate 
was placed a small Benares tray holding a tall straight 
glass ornamented in gold. At the fourth course the 
glasses were half filled with shaved ice, and a maple 
punch made from an old and much prized family recipe 
was served in them. The proportions for this are one 
glass of water, one glass of Jamaica rum, three-quarters 
glass of strained lemon juice and one-half glass of maple 
syrup. Bottle and keep on ice. In serving dilute to 
taste with table or iced water. The small dishes on 
the table were odd pieces of brass, lined with a lettuce 
leaf, a dainty bit of lace work or a glass saucer, as the 
case called for. This decorative scheme was used later 



28 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

for a luncheon, and most effective it proved to be on a 
bare table. Scattered pansies took the place of the 
candlesticks, one of my "notions" being never — with 
malice aforethought — to use artificial light when I can 
have God's sunshine. In the luncheon menu a suitable 
course was substituted for the roast and the bouillon 
was replaced by French strawberries, as the day was 
warm. 

French Strawberries — Fill punch cups one-third 
full of very ripe red berries, sliced; add a tablespoon of 
granulated sugar to each cup and fill three-quarters full 
with strained orange juice. Stir gently to dissolve 
sugar and set the cups into a pan of cracked ice till 
served. When these simple ingredients are first put 
together the combination of color is really dreadful to 
contemplate, so give the mixture at least three hours 
to ripen and beautify. Valencia oranges are the most 
satisfactory for this use at this time of year. 

MENU 

Chicken bouillon Soup balls 

Pulled bread 

Soft shell crabs Sauce tartare Rolls 

Scotch eggs Olives Bechamel sauce 

Sirloin roast 

Potato puff Savory carrots 

Spring salad Cheese (in good company) 

Angel parfait Marrons in coffee sauce 

-: .' . : ..Sponge cake ■ " 

Salted pecans ' Black -'colfVe '■'" 



DINNERS 29 



There is a chicken bouillon prepared for invalids, 
which comes in half-pint cans. It is better than any 
I have been able to make for well people. Heat it and 
add just before serving the 

SoUp Balls — Chop the white meat of a chicken very 
fine and season highly with salt, pepper, onion juice 
and a little thyme or curry ; add enough yolk of egg to 
bind together. Roll into very small balls, shake in a 
plate of flour till covered and poach in boiling water. 
You will find the pulled bread in its perfection at the 
baker's. 

Have the crabs dressed at the market, but look them 
over carefully and wash before cooking. Dry them 
well, season with salt and pepper, dredge with flour and 
saute on both sides. Serve on a hot platter garnished 
with lemon, and pass 

Sauce Tartare — Stir into a cup of mayonnaise, 
two small sweet-pickled cucumbers, three olives and a 
handful of watercress chopped fine; a few capers and a 
little onion juice. 

If you live in that happy valley where you can 
get a fresh shad for this course, by all means substitute 
it. Broil it, garnish with quarters of lemon and 
with the roe, parboiled and boiled brown ; rub with 
1 mtter frequently while over the fire. Many like 
shad spread with maitre d'hote 1 butter — the best of 
butter, lemon and chopped parsley mixed. To many 
more this fish is synonymous with bones, their natural 
inheritance ; but let us eat them as they are with thank- 
ful hearts, hoping for the day when the scientists will 



3 o THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

present us with boneless shad as they have with seedless 
oranges. It has been demonstrated that shad can be 
boned, with patience, practice, know how and a small 
sharp knife ; the writer has yet to see a shad boned that 
is not a fish spoiled. 

Scotch Eggs — Cook six eggs hard and at the same 
time keep them tender by leaving in hot water just 
below the boiling point for one-half hour; cool and 
remove the shells. Cook to a paste one-third of a cupful 
of bread crumbs in one-third of a cupful of milk and 
add one cupful of deviled ham and one raw egg. Cover 
the eggs with the mixture, roll in crumbs and fry brown 
in hot fat. Cut in halves lengthwise and send to table 
on a bed of parsley and garnish with bacon cooked in 
the manner given below: Slice as thin as possible. Hold 
the bacon, rind down, and do not try to cut through it 
1 i 11 you have the required number of slices, then shave 
U all at one time from the rind. Separate the slice* 
nnd lay on a fine wire broiler, put over a pan and place 
in a hot oven till the bacon is transparent. 

Your "John Anderson" may dote on carving; he 
may have respect for the symmetry of your table ap- 
pointments.; he ma}' be grace and skill combined and 
personified; if so, I have no. suggestions to offer anent 
the serving of a roast. We have it carved, at the latest 
possible moment, and set before the host to be distrib- 
uted with pleasure to all, more especially perhaps to the 
host and his opposite. The necessary cutting can be 
done in . the kitchen without greatly changing the 
appearance of the dish. 



DINNERS 31 



v Potato Puff — Soak old potatoes for several hours 
and boil in salted water. To two cups of potato mashed 
or put through a ricer add two tablespoons of butter, 
one teaspoon of salt and a little white pepper; fold in 
the whites of two eggs whipped stiff. Bake in a but- 
tered dish. Or dare to serve that almost unheard-of 
dainty, plain, well-boiled potatoes — Bermudas — and 
send round a gravy made in the old-fashioned way in 
the roasting pan. Is there anything much better? 

Savory Carrots — Scrape, then cut new carrots into 
straws. Cook tender in salted water and drain dry. 
Season with salt, pepper and a little onion juice and 
return to the kettle with a generous piece of butter and 
shake till hot and glazed. Pile on a dish in pyramid 
form, add a cup of fresh green peas well seasoned and 
a sprinkling of chopped parsley. 

Simple and apparently very acceptable individual 
salads of lettuce hearts, sprinkled with celery seed and 
glazed with French dressing, came next, Roquefort 
cheese in a dish with a cover was passed at the same 
time "for them as wanted it"; also cream cheese and 
white bar-le-duc, with toasted wafers and unsalted 
butter, a delightful combination. 

Angel Parfait (M Ronald) — Whip whites of three 
eggs to a stiff froth. Put half a cupful of sugar and 
same of water into a saucepan on the fire. Stir 
until the sugar is dissolved, then cook slowly, without 
touching, till a little dropped into cold water will form 
a ball when rolled between the fingers. Pour three 
tablespoonfuls of the boiling hot syrup slowly onto the 



32 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

whipped whites, beating constantly. Add a teaspoonful 
of noyan, and when cold, a pint of cream, whipped stiff. 
Mold and pack in a form (with a flat top) for four 
hours. Vanilla mousse can be used as the base of the 
dessert, if preferred. 

Matrons in Coffee Sauce — Heat in a saucepan one- 
half a cupful of black coffee and one-quarter cupful of 
thick cream;, thicken with the yolks of two eggs and 
two teaspoons of sugar beaten together. Drain bran- 
died marrons, cut in halves if very large, and add to the 
sauce while hot, but set away to get cold before either 
pouring over the parfait or passing with it. Eat with 
fresh homemade sponge cake. I experimented with a 
bottle of noisettes in marasquin as a sauce for a parfait 
with great success not long ago, but at this season the 
use of all such fol-de-rols presupposes that you have had 
strawberries for breakfast and luncheon, and cra^e 
"the spice of life." 



AN ABBREVIATED DINNER 
By Bee Practical 

Whether the majority of people have wearied of 
"china dinners" or simply crave change, the dinner of a 
few courses is certainly "in." A roast is looked upon 
as an intrusion; even the sweet is getting lighter, and 
moderation reigns. The funny man says that present 
methods in cookery have brought it about that many 
would rather cook than eat — by making it more fun 



DINNERS 33 



to cook and less fun to eat! I hope his wife will invite 
him and a few of his cronies to try the following menu: 

Tomatoes en surprise 

Fillets of flounder stuffed 

Savory crusts 

Cucumbers Potatoes 

Duck Orange smack 

Olives Eolls 

Turquoise salad Toasted wafers 

Baked Alaskas 

Crystallized pineapple and ginger 

Orange curacoa 

This was recently served at a table with unique 
decorations. A large globe of Japanese goldfish rested 
on a circular mirror mat, the latter surrounded by a 
full border of maidenhair fern. By the way, keep this 
fern either submerged, or well sprinkled with water, 
and in a cool place, till the last possible moment, before 
arranging. Abnormal in form and beautiful in color 
were some of the strange little water jewels; rare 
mother-of-pearl fringe-tails, bright gold lace and fan- 
tails, comets and shining black telescopes. The flashes 
from their continuous motion made a centerpiece which 
vied in brillianc}' and oriental effect with the candle 
shades of iridescent beads which ornamented the candles 
at the corners of the table. The shades were strung of 
beads of different colors and sizes and had a fringe of 
the same. Fastened on to wire frames they well repay 
the trouble of making, as they are not perishable. 



34 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

At each place was a small green jardiniere holding a 
pot of growing ferns, queer and unusual varieties being 
selected. Upright in the foliage appeared a miniature 
bamboo rod with a line attached, from which dangled a 
realistic goldfish (caught at the caterer's) and made to 
do duty as a name card. Just before the finger 1 tow Is 
were set on, two or three magic flowers were dropped 
into each. These blossom "while you wait" and can 
be purchased at any Japanese store. 

For the first dish, if you will go yourself to a hot- 
house for the tomatoes, you may be able to get them 
with the pretty green calyx left on each, to make a 
handle to the slice you cut from the stem end for a 
cover. Otherwise insert a large clove, or an apple stem, 
or even a wooden toothpick wound with ribbon, to serve 
the purpose. Peel the tomatoes and ice them after 
taking out the seeds. Mix the pulp with small, choice 
oysters or clams, season with equal parts of chili sauce 
and catsup, and add horse-radish, paprika and lemon 
juice to taste. Fill the tomatoes, put on the covers 
and serve in glass sauce dishes containing shaved ice. 
Eat cup and all. 

Have the fillets cut from small fish ; they are more 
delicate. Wash, dry, roll in seasoned flour and put a 
layer in a buttered roasting pan. Make a stuffing by 
mixing thoroughly half a tablespoon of flour, two of 
butter, yolks of two eggs, a teaspoon of salt, saltspoon 
of white pepper and a dash of red, and the following 
herbs chopped very fine : one teaspoon each of onions 
and parsley, two tablespoons of celery and a quarter of a 



DINNER 



35 



can of French mushrooms. Spread a layer over each 
iillet and cover with another fillet. Protect with a 
buttered paper and bake in a hot oven twelve or fifteen 
minutes, liemove the paper, drain the remaining 
mushrooms, add them to the fish and cook three min- 
utes more. Serve very hot and squeeze over them a 
quarter of a lemon and arrange the buttons around. 

Cut the tops from small rolls and remove the soil: 
inside, for the crusts; butter and brown in the oven. 
Make a rich white sauce, using asparagus liquor and 
cream for wetting. Add two cups of asparagus tips 
and one of peas, and fill the shells. 

Prepare the cucumbers as usual; dry and season 
with a dressing made the same as French dressing, 
substituting thick cream in place of oil (a new wrinkle), 
and sprinkle the whole with chopped chives. Let the 
potatoes be of the Saratoga order, though the accommo- 
dating tuber may be contorted and convoluted by 
novelty cutters, or beguiled into any admired shape. 

Serve half a duck breast to a person, and have 
enough for a second helping. When partly roasted, 
baste with a little Madeira and cook until the blood is 
out, but not the juice. There are some who profess to 
like their duck "run through the oven/' but they are 
the minority. The side dish with this course is made 
by slicing sour oranges and sprinkling them with a 
mixture of Maraschino, brandy and orange bitters. 
Apple sauce, in quarters or sifted — hot or cold — is 
always acceptable with duck, and olive sauce is relished 
by many. 



36 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

The turquoise salad — so it is called at a world- 
renowned hostelry — was evidently named by the rule of 
contraries. We rechristened it coral salad. The in- 
gredients are shredded celery, bleached romaine and 
pimentoes cut in long, slender pieces; the proportion 
of celery being somewhat greater than the other two. 
Romaine is not always to be had, but lettuce is ever 
with us. The dressing is mayonnaise and — between 
us — the best hotel dressing never equals the homemade 
product. Each plate holds an added tidbit made of a 
crisp, tender stalk of celery selected from those growing 
just outside the heart. The concave side of the stalk 
is heai^ed with cream cheese, seasoned, moistened with a 
little cream or dressing, and mixed with chopped walnut 
meats. This novel garnish is eaten from the fingers 
as if the celery were plain, and the whole combination 
is most delicious — if the inventor was color blind! 
A touch of red can be put in the cheese if desired. 

Of the tantalizing sort is the dessert, the kind that 
makes one resolve to find opportunity to try her hand 
at it without delay. Yet it is, perhaps, too difficult for 
an amateur to undertake. Fill small pyramid molds 
with French ice cream. Always a solid, fine-grained 
cream, for this purpose it should have been made still 
more solid by an additional number of egg yolks. Put 
the molds into a freezing box or into a pail. Seal 1lie 
joints of the pail tightly with butter and bury in ice 
and salt. Molds packed in this way require to stand 
longer than those which come in direct contact with 
the freezing mixture, and these must be veritable 



DINNERS 37 



Alaskas for coldness. Prepare discs of sponge cake the 
size of the flat surface of the molds and three-quarters 
of an inch thick, and set at some distance apart on a 
hardwood board covered with waxed paper. Make a 
meringue, allowing one-quarter cup of powdered sugar 
and a sprinkle of salt to each egg white; beat till 
smooth and firm enough to hold its shape. Unmold 
the cones of cream with great care, set the base of each 
on to a circle of cake, coat instanter with a covering of 
meringue and color slightly on the top slide of a piping 
hot open; or, far better, brown separately and evenly 
with a salamander iron. The Alaskas are usually large 
enough to cut in halves at the table, making two 
portions. 

Savarin said: "The discovery of a new dish doe-' 
more for the happiness of the human race than the 
discovery of a planet." But if there are "nerves" in 
the kitchen, either when you are there or not, serve 
the following older delicacy: Line a melon mold with 
a thin layer of pistachio ice cream; nearly fill the 
center with French cream (which is yellow), leaving a 
small space in the center of this to be filled with 
pignolias mixed with barely enough cream to bind 
them together. Repack in ice and salt to ripen. 
Thickly strew the surface of the melon when unmolded 
with the same nuts — or almonds — browned and chopped, 
to simulate a rind. Trim plate with maidenhair. 

For orange ouracoa, thoroughly clean the rind, then 
make cups of tough-skinned oranges by cutting in 
halves crosswise and turning the peel backward. Set 



38 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

pulp side down on a small plate containing a coffee 
spoon, and serve one to each individual. Said individ- 
uals help themselves to a lump or two of loaf sugar 
and a tablespoon of brandy, when these are passed, and 
the host then starts a tiny alcohol lamp and matches 
round the table to light the brew. A little manipula- 
tion with the spoon extracts the essential oil from the 
peel while the liquor is burning away, and a seasoning 
of mace and cinnamon may be added during this 
process if it is considered an improvement. The remain- 
ing liquid is sipped from the spoon when the flame 
has subsided; if preferred, it may be poured into a 
cordial glass of fine ice, or be added to the black coffee. 
Some cherish the illusion that this is the Olympian 
nectar, and others — hold a different opinion; but 
whichever view one takes, 'tis an excellent digester and 
a very pretty after-dinner play thing. 



A COMPANY DINNER 
By Anne Warner 

Menu cards are no longer used on private tables. 
Place cards, either perfectly plain or beautifully dec- 
orated for souvenirs, each bearing the name of a guest, 
may be put at the side of the plates. They are useful 
in indicating the seat which each member of the party 
is to occupy. If wine or mineral water is to be served 
and a cooler is not at hand, put the bottles in a pail 
with crushed ice and a little rock salt, and cover with a 



DINNERS 



piece of carpet. Submerge the body of the bottles only. 
This precaution will do a way with the necessity of 
rinsing the salt water from about the corks, sometimes 
a difficult task. It is well to have a doily wrapped 
round the bottle for convenience in serving, unless the 
host objects when it covers a label dated B. C. 

On this dinner table two Dresden candelabra, 
holding groups of candles with semi-transparent painted 
shades, stood together, high in the center. The table 
was covered with a mass of pink June roses mixed with 
foliage, leaving only enough space around the edge to 
hold plates, glasses and other necessaries. The roses 
shaded from dark pink ones in tin; center to pale pink 
at the edge, and the arrangement caused much enthu- 
siasm (and a great dearth in the garden). The stems 
were cut short and stuck into wet sand in flat tins, 
which held them firmly in place and kept them fresh. 
The light of the room was concentrated upon the table, 
making it the center of attraction, as it should be. The 
dessert plates and after-dinner coffee cups were Dresden 
china. 



MENU 

Clams Radishes Sandwiches 

Consomme royale Olives Wafers 

Brook trout Cresses Bolls 

Saddle of lamb Mint sauce 

Asparagus Potato apples 

Currant jelly Strawberry punch 

Summer salad Cheese balls 



4 o THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

Sandwiches 

Prune souffle Brandy sauce 

Figs in cordial Salted almonds 

Black coffee 

Serve the clams on the shells in deep plates of 
cracked ice, with a radish in the center of each dish. 
Leave a bit of the green stem, cut and turn back five 
strips of the red peel of the radishes. Mix a little 
horse-radish with butter for the filling of the sand- 
wiches and cut in any pretty shape. 

The consomme should be clarified till brilliant. 
For the custard beat two eggs moderately, add two 
tablespoonfuls of milk and season with pepper and salt. 
Butter a large flat pan, set it in another one containing 
hot water and bake very slowly till set. It should not 
even brown on top. When the soup is in the tureen, 
cut the custards into forms with a tiny fancy cutter, 
without first removing from the pan, and add carefully 
to the consomme. 

If the annual trouting fever "strikes" one of your 
family, then is the time to give this dinner; but if th<' 
attack comes inconveniently, do the next best thing. 
What you want is fresh brook trout. Almost all hotels 
and some markets have chances to buy these of "lone 
fishermen," and will do you the favor (and it is a favor) 
of getting them for you. When the trout are dressed, 
dry thoroughly with a soft cloth and sprinkle inside 
with a little pepper (that is what my fisherman says!). 
Roll in Indian meal and saute in hot salt pork fat. 



DINNERS 41 



Serve in a border of watercresses and do not spoil with 
other relishes or sauces. 

Have the saddle well done and carved in long thin 
slices parallel with the bone, if the lamb is heavy, or 
across and serve the ribs if very small. Use the tender 
tips of mint only, for the sauce. Stand for an hour 
or so in about half a cup of mild vinegar mixed with 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Wash the asparagus care- 
fully and tie into bundles. (Ait from the tough end 
of the stalks enough to make them of uniform length 
and boil in salted water till tender, but not limp. Put 
on buttered toast, cut and pull off the strings and 
season with salt ami pepper and melted butter. Use 
;in asparagus fork for serving. 

Prune Souffle — Wash one-half pound of sweet 
prunes ; soak over night, cook soft, remove the stones 
and chop fine. Whip the whites of four eggs stiff; 
gradually adding one-half a cupful of powdered sugar 
and a pinch of cream of tartar. Fold lightly into the 
prunes and bake about twenty minutes in a buttered 
pudding dish. Serve either with whipped cream 
sweetened and flavored and the figs in cordial, or with 
a foamy brandy sauce. It is better hot. If you have 
no holder for the pudding dish it can be made more 
presentable by folding a large napkin cornerwise and 
pinning (invisibly) around the dish and setting on a 
pretty plate. 

Potato Apples — Prepare a croquette mixture, form 
into small balls and roll in eggs and crumbs. Flatten 
slightly and put a clove in one side for the eye; make 



42 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

a little depression in the opposite side and stick in it 
an apple stem and fry. By shaping differently you 
can have "pears," if you like. 

Strawberry Punch — Boil a quart of water and two 
and one-half cupfuls of sugar for about ten minutes, 
add one cupful and a quarter of strawberry juice, and 
cool. Before freezing add half a cupful of Maraschino 
and it* will then not freeze hard. Serve in cups. 

Summer Salad — Select six fresh cucumbers all the 
same size. Pare, cut in halves lengthwise, scoop out 
the centers and lay in water till wanted. Dry and fill 
with a mixture of sweetbreads and peas, dressed with 
mayonnaise. Set on a green lettuce leaf on individual 
plates. Serve with dainty plain bread and butter 
sandwiches and 

Cheese Balls — Mix thoroughly a cup and a half of 
grated cheese, a little salt and pepper and the whites 
of three eggs, beaten stiff. Shape into little rolls, cover 
with bread dust, fry in deep fat and drain on blotting 
paper. 

The dessert for this month is strawberries, if you 
can get them in their perfection ; but market straw- 
berries are so seldom anything but a "delusion and a 
snare!" If you use them, substitute some other fruit 
juice in the punch. The black coffee may be made 
over an alcohol lamp, at table, or in a French drip 
coffee pot ; or better still, be served to the guests after 
they have left the dining room. 



DINNERS 43 



THE HARVEST HOME 



By Anne Warner 



That is what we call it-— this dinner that ends our 
autumn holiday. The garnerings of the outing are 
pure air, fresh odors and pleasant sights, relaxed nerves, 
sweetened tempers, rested !><>dies — and appetites. The 
capsheaf is the harvest home. The one described here 
is one of a number that have been enjoyed by a fortu- 
nate few at the termination of extended annual drives 
through the Berkshire hills. 

It is an unwritten law of the party that the dinner, 
whether given at the home of the genial host of these 
pleasure trips, or at the country house of one of his 
guests, shall be celebrated in the open air: so, out in 
the indefinable atmosphere of this season, before the 
dreamy hush of autumn becomes oppressive, while the 
hazy aii- contains no dampness and the chill of evening 
brings nothing hut a feeling of exhilaration, the little 
parting feast of good things is spread. That is to say, 
sometime* — but tell it not to a native of New England 
without this word of reservation. Truly our perfect 
October day is bright and beautiful as a rainbow, but 
alas, as brief and fugitive; therefore, the stay-at-home, 
combining a knowledge of this fact with that of the 
unreliability of men and horses, served this particular 
dinner on the large hospitable veranda — thus keeping 
within the letter of the law — and was justified when 
the wayfarers appeared two hours later than schedule 



44 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

time, with an early hunter's moon sulking behind 
a cloud. 

Across the one end of the veranda where possibly 
the outside world might peep in, she put a close row 
of small evergreen trees, making an effective screen 
and background; while, arranged in corners, envelop- 
ing pillars, hanging from every available cornice and 
ornament, "October's crimson banners flew." A flam- 
ing maple, whose changing foliage had been watched 
for days, contributed largely, and with long branches 
of richly-tinted, shining oak leaves and a touch of the 
yellow and brown of chestnut leaves and burs, combined 
to make a place beautiful to the eye; while hidden 
among these, bunches of wild grapes still on the vines, 
added their ineffable but unmistakable incense, to the 
gratification of another sense. 

The center of the table held a large loosely-woven 
grass basket, tipped on its side and pouring forth evi- 
dence of the maturity and bounty of the "fall o' the 
year." Clusters of purple Concord grapes, golden-green 
Niagaras and tiny pink Delawares blended their bloom 
and color in the profusion that tumbled out among 
the soft tufts of a tangle of feathery clematis vine, 
which started under the basket and ran with riotous 
and apparently unstudied freedom over the cloth. 
Nothing of a hothouse growth may come to these feasts, 
if you please — consistency, thou art a jewel ! 

The place cards were rolls of thin birch bark which 
curled round the extreme ends of the clematis. When 
"night threw her mantle o'er the skies and pinned it 



DINNERS 45 



with a star," the table was lighted by the twinkling 
beams from many unshaded bayberry candles. These 
candles, by the way, are made by an old resident back 
in the country on Long Island and are the result of a 
mysterious process of extracting the wax from bay- 



berries. They arc green in color and give out a faint 
odor favorable to reminiscence. And now to the baser 
attractions of the menu. 

Clams 

Corn soup Croutons 

Smelts Sauce tartare 

Tomatoes Rolls 

Saddle venison Jelly sauce 

Sweet potatoes Brussels sprouts 

Boiled chestnuts 

Roman punch 

Broiled quail Hominy crescents 

October salad 
Grandmother's pudding Snowdrift sauce 

Fig dainty 
Grapes Cheese and wafers Coffee 

At each cover the clams radiated from the conven- 
tional lemon half, but the latter rested within a little 
circle of the choicest of the late flowering nasturtiums 
that the garden afforded. The sandwiches served with 
them were made of thin buttered rounds of white bread, 
with a filling of spicy nasturtium petals and very young 
leaves. The condiments were green pepper sauce — 
and hunger. 



46 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

Outspoken members of the family go so far as to 
say that they know with absolute certainty what soup 
will invariably be offered during the corn season, if 
the stay-at-home has control of the menu. It seems 
so excellent to her that she offers the recipe here. 

Com Soup — One pint of corn pulp, the kernels 
having been slashed with a sharp knife and the corn 
scraped from the cob. Three pints of boiling water, 
one of rich milk, one cup of white stock, three table- 
spoons of butter, one tablespoon of flour; yolks of two 
eggs, pepper, salt and a few drops of onion juice. 
Cook the cobs in the water twenty minutes; remove 
them, add corn pulp and boil the same length of time; 
rub through a colander — nearly all should pass through 
if the corn has been properly prepared. Season, cover 
and keep hot. Make a smooth white sauce of the 
butter, flour and stock in the regular way; add to the 
soup and boil up together. Heat the milk in another 
saucepan, pour upon the beaten yolks and cook one 
minute; season, stir both parts together, and when in 
the tureen garnish with whipped cream "stars." Serve 
with hot buttered croutons. The only drawback to the 
ordinary use of this soup at dinner is that it is a 
whole meal in itself ; it needs a "touring" appetite. 

October is the appointed time to eat green smelts 
in any case, and to the hill travelers they were doubly 
acceptable, for, as one of them said: "We haven't had 
anything in or on the fish line between Cape Cod 
turkey and trout !*' 

Fried Swells — Selected smelts were washed, dried, 



DINNERS 47 



sprinkled with salt and pepper, dipped in cream and 
rolled in very fine bread crumbs. They had been made 
into rings by gashing diagonally and pinning head 
and tail together with wooden toothpicks (removed 
after frying), and were cooked in a wire basket in deep 
fat. They appeared at table on a round platter cov- 
ered with a folded napkin, were garnished with parsley, 
and served with their sauce, tiny rolls, and ripe, meaty, 
cold tomatoes. 

In cooking venison, first and foremost it is to be 
remembered that it should be rather underdone than 
otherwise. The finest portion is the saddle; next the 
haunch, which includes one-half the loin ; the third 
best joint is the neck. 

Butter a large sheet of writing paper, sprinkle with 
salt and place over the fat, make a coarse paste and 
cover the lean part. Boast in a piping hot oven, basting 
repeatedly. Fifteen minutes before it is done, remove 
paper and paste, baste with a little butter, and brown. 
For sauce, heat together one-half cup of either port or 
claret and the same of clear stock and pour over a 
small glass of currant jelly. The chestnuts should be 
hot and well salted, and have been carefully looked 
over by the cook before boiling; this should not prevent 
the partaker from looking them over carefully on his 
own account. 

The methods of preparing the vegetables for this 
course were specialties of our colored major-domo. 

Sweet Potatoes, Southern Sti/Jr — In a large, flat- 
bottomed saucepan melt two heaping tablespoons of 



48 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

butter and one of sugar. Select medium-sized sweet 
potatoes to pare, cut in two lengthwise and season with 
salt and pepper. Closely cover the bottom of the kettle 
with the raw potatoes and put another layer on top. 
Pour on water to cover the lower layer, cover tightly 
and place over gentle heat, that the cooking may be 
slow. When the lower layer is well colored change 
to the top. By the time both are "dun brown" the 
water will have evaporated, leaving a very little butter 
sauce to pour over the potatoes. 

Chloes Brussels Sprouts — Remove any wilted 
leaves from the outside and let the sprouts stand a few 
minutes in cold water strongly salted. Cook uncov- 
ered till tender, in rapidly boiling water. Drain thor- 
oughly, then place in a saucepan containing a generous 
lump of butter, a Chili pepper and some celery salt, 
and toss till lightly browned. Just before serving 
remove the pepper and add a dash each of kitchen bou- 
quet and fine Madeira. 

It is doubtless disheartening for epicures to be 
forced to learn that the prince of American game 
birds, the woodcock, is becoming extinct. These long- 
billed martyrs had a place in the original menu of 
this dinuer, which was given before the edict went 
forth that "it shall be unlawful to buy, sell, or offer 
for sale, or have in possession for sale, any woodcock 
or ruifed grouse, commonly called partridge, whenever 
or wherever the said birds may have been taken or 
killed." So far, so good, say I! But between the 
first of October and the first of December we mav still 



DINNERS 49 



regale ourselves upon — "enjoy," if we can — the "poor 
Bob White" till his turn shall come to be protected. 
I would go hungry to desperation before I would eat 
one, and be the indirect cause of stilling a single throat 
that gives his inspiring call; but one must perforce 
give up one's whims and notions to others' appetites, 
and this is a menu and not a sermon. To be sure, 
I eat other game with relish and avidity — didn't I 
just say something about consistency? 

Hominy Crescents are excellent to serve under 
birds. Put one-half cup of hominy in a double boiler 
with one-half cup of white stock; soak fifteen minutes, 
add one and a half cups hot milk and cook half an 
hour. Then stir in thoroughly one-half teaspoon of salt, 
one-quarter teaspoon of paprika, a few drops of onion 
juice and yolks of two eggs. Turn one-half an inch 
thick into a shallow pan; when cold cut into forms, 
crumb, egg and fry. 

October Salad — Pare Spitzenberg apples and cut 
into cubes; cut up an equal quantity of crisp, tender 
celery and the same of hickory nut meats. Mix and 
dress with a mayonnaise and serve in polished, red- 
cheeked apples which have been hollowed out for the 
purpose. Set each impromptu dish on a brilliant 
autumn leaf. 

Grandmother C/s pudding recipe comes down from 
the time when the taste and try method was in vogue, 
and descendants of the originator have ever since been 
proud to concoct all sizes of it by her elastic rule, 
unhampered by so much as a spoon or a cup. I give 



5 o THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

it with perhaps overmuch elaboration since hearing one 
vounger branch of the family remark to another branch, 
with a pessimistic sniff: "What's the nse of giving 
it to anybody; nobody makes it right, outside of the 
family !" 

Buy a stale loaf of bread from the baker — a brick 
loaf — and since you will not be- able to get it more 
than a day old, keep it till it reaches the advanced 
age of three days. The night before you expect to 
serve the pudding proceed as follows: With a sharp 
knife slice the bread very thin ("so that you can see 
through it/' says the pessimist) ; this is imperative 
Put a layer in the bottom of the pudding dish — and 
thereby hangs another tale. This dish must be a heavy 
earthenware or stone crock, glazed inside and of a 
shape which resembles a flower pot, high and narrow ; 
I doubt if the pudding can have the proper appearance 
or flavor made in any other. Prepare the dish for the 
bread by greasing generously with butter '"about the 
size of an egg." Add to the first layer a "sprinkling" 
of sugar, "just a pinch" each of allspice and cinnamon, 
a "grating" of nutmeg and a "good handful" of im- 
ported Malaga raisins seeded and cut in halves. Con- 
tinue in this order till the pudding mold is full, 
finishing with a layer of bread. Heat a quantity of 
fresh, rich milk lukewarm ; add a "savor" of salt and 
enough molasses to color the milk perceptibly, and pour 
slowly over the bread till by gently pressing the mass 
you can see the milk. Never stir it. Cover with a 
plate and leave in a moderately warm place all night. 



DINNERS 51 



It will shrink a little, and in the morning, if it seems 
dr} r , more prepared milk should be added before baking 
in an even oven for three or four hours, according 
to size. Keep it covered with an inverted deep plate 
for two hours of the time, then replace with a piece of 
brown paper. The pudding has a tendency to burn 
and must be carefully watched. Let it stand a few 
minutes when taken from the oven, with the mold 
wrapped in a folded cloth which has been wrung out 
of cold water, then put the serving plate over the top 
and it will turn out without sticking. It should not 
be stiff enough to keep the exact shape of the deep 
mold, but sink to a quivering, sponge-like mound cov- 
ered with a golden crust. Eat with a hard sauce when 
hot, and with a hot sauce when cold and equally appe- 
tizing. This was a favorite Thanksgiving dessert in 
"ye olden time," and Grandmother's pudding is well 
worth experimenting with. 

Its accompaniments are the innovations of younger 
generations. The snowdrift sauce is a variety of, and, 
we think, an improvement upon, the regulation hard 
sauce. Make line lemons into cups by cutting them 
into halves picket fashion. Remove pulp and shave 
a bit from the bottom of each half to insure a flat 
surface. Beat together one-half cup of butter and one 
cup of powdered sugar until very white and light. The 
success of the sauce depends upon its long beating. 
Add one-half teaspoon of vanilla, two tablespoons of 
brandy and one-half a cup of thick whipped cream, or 
tho whipped whiti of an egg, if preferred. Cool, heap 



52 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

lightly into the lemon cups (Grandmother always 
wanted a little nutmeg and lemon zest grated over hers ) 
and serve very cold on small individual plates. 

Fig Dainty — Wash two pounds of bag figs and 
stew gently till tender in a little water, the juice of a 
lemon and half a cup of port. Cool before serving- 
two on each plate with the sauce. 

The ripe Gorgonzola brought up the subject of 
the relative excellence of Italian cheeses, and a member 
of the party informed us that the experiment had lately 
been completed of keeping some Parmesan for one hun- 
dred and fifty years and that the cheese was found 
to be still delicious and "full of life and power" ; 
we unanimously voted him guilty of ambiguity, if 
nothing worse. 

One last toast was drunk to the drive of the 
coming year, in — we will call it cider, as that is season- 
able; with jokes and reminiscences and friendly chaff- 
ing the guests left the table to gather round an open 
fire which had been built in the ingle nook of the 
veranda, while the masculine contingent smpked a peace 
on earth cigar ; and the dinner became one of the 
"has beens/' 

THE WINTER FEAST 
By B. P. 

In thinking over the dinners I have given or have 
assisted in giving, one belonging to the latter class 
always looms in mv memorv above the others, as being 



DINNERS 53 



the most difficult, and, at the same time the most 
enjoyable of them all (incongruous combination!) "We 
were enduring the rigors of a northern "spell of 
weather," and this, with the difficulties overcome in the 
struggle to seat twenty-eight persons at one table, had 
something to do with the impression, and maybe the 
fact that the dinner gown arrived with the guests was 
another reason for it. 

If a body could be planner and designer, personal 
purchaser and caterer, chief cook, table supervisor and 
decorator, wine expert and general manager, without 
being smiling hostess as well, how it would simplify 
matters. How blest must be that estate when you can 
summon a chef and say : "Francois, we have twenty- 
eight dining to-night," and presto, it is done, and 
well done ! I will come to earth and own that this 
is not at all the way we did it. We had plenty of 
help (?) to be sure, of the kind that (at times) one 
would have been glad to assist in finding the bottom 
of the Bed sea, or some other equally distant main, 
but refrained from so doing because they were a little 
more useful dry than wet. Incompetence, thou dost 
so prevail ! 

When the question of' decoration was being dis- 
cussed in family conclave, the thought of the neces- 
sary expanse of table linen caused the hostess to exclaim 
dejectedly: "I don't know but we'll have to resort 
to ribbon furbelows to help out, if the table does look 
like a milliner's window ; even that is better than allow- 
ing a florist to ' hold high carnival." Having duly 



54 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

considered the pros and cons of both the practical 
and the artistic sides of the question, the final plan 
made us independent of the wiles of the florist, and 
was, we thought, guiltless of the sin of overembellish- 
ment; we didnt mind the work. The table was partly 
prepared early in the day. In due time the florist 
was to bring the centerpiece, consisting of a mass of 
deep red Liberty roses, arranged upright on eight or 
ten-inch stems, in damp moss, on a shallow oblong 
basket or pan, the dimensions of which we knew. A 
piece of mousseline de soie, fifteen yards long and full 
width, and of the exact shade of the roses, was adjusted 
and pinned in place, as follows: starting from the cen- 
ter, the mousseline crossed diagonally the space allotted 
to the flowers; each half, starting diagonally again at 
the opposite angle, was draped and manipulated across 
the table and tied into a large, graceful double bow, 
and its billowy daintiness pulled up here, or pinned 
down there, till the effect was good ; then each long 
end started across toward the other side of the table, 
and the same maneuvers were gone through with ; 
then diagonally the fourth time, and the last bow — ■ 
smaller — was made near the end of the opposite side 
of the table. (Dear me — I wonder if I could do it 
from this description ! ) It is hardly necessary to add 
that ample space was left along the sides and at the 
ends for covers, and that members of the family hap- 
pened to sit where the necessary overlapping of table- 
cloths took place under two of the big bows, and the 
huge Japanese plates filled with fruit which occupied 



DINNERS 55 



the angles opposite them. At the appointed hour, with 
the "set piece" (if Liberty roses can ever be said to 
be set, with their dainty heads poised on their slender 
stems) came quantities of maidenhair ferns, fragrant 
freesia sprays, clusters of English violets and a few 
loose roses. Nimble and clever fingers arranged these 
flowers gracefully and irregularly in and around the 
bows of shimmering red, with exquisite and novel 
effect. Neither the florist nor the milliner was unpleas- 
antly in evidence, but the hand of madame herself 
was manifest. Each bow-knot covered the base of a 
candelabrum, whose candles glowed softly through thin 
cut-silver shades lined with the mousseline. 

The dinner was served from the butler's pantry 
on individual plates — the more formal way, but the 
more convenient for so large a number of guests. 

MENU 

Raw oysters Sandwiches 

Creamed halibut in cucumbers Radishes 

Terrapin a la Chamberlin 

Pickled mangoes 

Fillet of beef Mushroom sauce 

Spinach balls Potato ensemble 

Roman punch 

Squabs on toast Celery Jelly sauce 

Tomato cup salads Welsh sandwiches 

Cream a la Grasse 

Bonbons Fruit 

Cheese Black coffee 



56 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

Oysters are excellent bivalves to which to apply 
the theory that the natural is always the best ; so 
serve either on their shells on regular oyster plates, or 
on deep plates filled with cracked ice. Put a tiny shell 
containing a teaspoonful of horse-radish in the center, 
where the hinge ends meet. Make delicately thin sand- 
wiches of Boston brown bread and spread with a mixture 
of equal parts of finely chopped olives and pimentos 
or green peppers, blended with a little mayonnaise. 
Keep fresh by directions given before. 

Halibut in Cucumbers — Cook the halibut till 
tender in court bouillon — to two quarts of water add a 
few slices each of carrot, onion and celery; two or three 
cloves and peppercorns; a bit each of mace, bay leaf 
and parsley, a little salt and lemon juice. Drain, and 
when cool remove skin and bone and pick the fish 
apart into fine flakes. Make a rich white sauce in the 
regular way, adding from a quarter to a half teaspoon 
of curry powder to every two cups of sauce, according 
to taste. Pare, cut in halves and parboil in bouillon 
the required number of cucumbers. Scoop out the in- 
side of each half, till with the creamed fish, cover with 
prepared crumbs — one-third cup of butter to every cup 
of dried bread crumbs — and bake about half an hour 
or less, till the cucumbers are soft, but not till they 
lose shape. Serve with a lemon point on each plate. 

Baltimore Terrapin — If those who eat this "insect ,, 
had to prepare him for his final appearance — terrapin 
w mid be more plentiful ! Dip a very much alive "dia- 
mond-back" into hot water and scald till the skin can 



DINNERS 57 



be removed from head and feet by rubbing with a cloth ; 
and wash — and wash — and wash! Return to the kettle, 
and when the claws are soft it is boiled sufficiently; it 
took nearly an hour, if 1 remember, to do ours. Cool 
and remove the bottom shell first, then cut off the nails 
and head and take out carefully the gall-sack and sand- 
bag. Contrary to directions, our fastidious taste im- 
pelled us to take out also several other suspicious looking 
bits of internal machinery, leaving the meaty parts, the 
eggs (accounted a great luxury by epicures), the liver 
and all the juice. So much we did the day before the 
feast. Shortly before it is to be eaten place these choice 
morsels in a stewpan to heat. Make a sauce of the 
mash 1 and creamed yolks of eight hard-boiled eggs and 
two tablespoons of tine butter rubbed to a smooth paste 
and added to a pint of cream, which has been heated 
in a double boiler; season with cayenne and salt. To 
this quantity of sauce add one quart of the prepared ter- 
rapin and simmer for ten minutes — longer will do no 
harm, dust at the moment of serving pour in two 
tablespoons of tine Madeira. Serve this dish very hot. 
There are small metal cups which come for the purpose, 
but since we were not supplied — not having terrapin 
often — we used ordinary deep plates, heated. 

Living in a small city, we had to send far afield 
for some of our materials. The fillets came from a 
distant base of supplies and one of them was decidedly 
"ripe" — but what would you, ye seekers after perfection 
in an imperfect world? Our fillets were larded, and 
baked in a very hot oven in the usual way. Half an 



58 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

hour before they were done they were covered with long 
thin pieces cut from peeled bananas. One piece was 
served on each thick slice of beef, and a ladle of sauce 
added at the side. 

Spinach Balls — Pound to a paste in a mortar the 
yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and rub smooth with the 
yolk of one raw egg; season with salt, a drop of tabasco 
and a very little melted butter. Mix with one cup of 
cold cooked spinach, drained and pressed as dry as pos- 
sible. Make into small balls, roll in flour and fry in 
a basket a few at a time. Some of these small-famiJy 
recipes had to be quadrupled to make enough to go 
round. 

Potato Ensemble — Mash and season well a quantity 
of boiled white potatoes, and to every quart add the 
beaten yolks of two eggs and two tablespoons of thick 
cream. Stir over the fire and form into a shapely 
ring on a greased tin sheet, or pack in a ring mold that 
opens; brush over with yolk of egg and bake in a slow 
oven — it should not be browned. To take to table, care- 
fully slip the potato ring onto a large round entree 
plate; encircle it with a single row of potato marbles 
rolled in parsley, and heap the center with sweet potato 
croquettes. This disli was passed, and the combination 
of the white and green, yellow and golden brown, was 
very tempting. 

The following proportions were adhered to in 
making the punch, and it was dubbed the "life-saving 
station" : put in the saucepan over the fire three-quarters 
of a pound of sugar and three pints of water; boil ten 



DINNERS 59 



minutes and cool. Freeze, and when nearly frozen stir 
into it quickly the strained juice of lour lemons and 
two gills of old Jamaica rum. 

Be sure that the squabs are squabs. Tie into shape 
with thin slices of bacon over the breasts and roast about 
twenty minutes, basting with butter; serve on buttered 
toast, with celery hearts and the simplest form of jelly 
sauce, made by pouring over a tumbler of currant jelly 
at the last moment, three tablespoons of hot port wine. 

Tomato Cups — To one can of tomatoes add one 
teaspoon eaeh of salt and sugar, a dusting of paprika, 
two cloves, a bit of bay leaf and a slice of onion. Boil 
together till the tomato is soft, then add three-quarters 
of a box of gelatine which has been soaked in one-half 
a cup of water. Stir till gelatine is dissolved and strain 
twice or till nearly clear. Pour into ice cold crockery 
cups (flaring, round -bottomed ones are prettiest) to the 
depth of half an inch, and leave till the jelly will barely 
support light-weight inner molds, about half an inch 
smaller, containing a lump of ice. Aluminum ones are 
best, but we managed with tin ones — though we "ought 
to not" — by taking them out as soon as the jelly wis 
firmly set. If the first gelatine is allowed to get too 
hard before filling the remaining space between the 
molds, the cups will separate at this line when turned 
out. Make the cups a day or so before using and keep 
in a cold place. Unmold when they are wanted by 
filling the inner mold with warm water and lifting out. 
Dip the outer china forms into hot water and turn out 
the tomato cups. Set each one upon crisp lettuce leaves 



60 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

which have had a bath of French dressing; till with 
a mixture of two-thirds finely cut celery and one-third 
coarsely-chopped English walnuts and broken hickory 
nut meats. Combine these ingredients with a generous 
quantity of mayonnaise, and finish each salad with a 
cup of mayonnaise cream dressing, put on with a star 
tube, and drop a turned olive into each, if you like. 

The salad sandwiches should be long and narrow; 
make of white bread and fill with tender, selected water- 
cress, which has been dipped in salted tarragon vinegar, 
then shaken dry. 

The snowy cream (invariably Philadelphia, when 
B. P. is at the helm) had a distinctive taste which 
delighted and mystified the somewhat jaded appetite. 
It was simply flavored highly with Fleur d'Orange, this 
comes from Grasse — one does not June to go there for 
it ! Serve from the freezer on small, choice plates and 
scatter a teaspoon of freshly grated cocoanut on top 
of each mound. 

"Ant please your Honor," quoth the Peasant, 
"This same dessert is very pleasant." 

The fruit was served by the obliging relatives who 
sat nearest, by the aid of grape scissors and a willing 
spirit, to all who wished it; cheese and wafers solaced 
the others, for to many, "a last course at dinner, wanting 
cheese, is like a pretty woman with only one eye." 

Leaving men and cigars behind, the hostess led the 
ladies to the parlors, where clear black coffee was passed, 
followed by creme de menthe in glasses filled with 



DINNERS 61 



shaved ice, the gentlemen being served in the dining 
room at the same time. 

AN INDIAN DINNER 
By Jeannette Young 

This is especially appropriate for Thanksgiving. 
Use a bare polished dining table, or, if that is impos- 
sible, use a heavy brown linen cover with deep hem. 
Lay across it two bead-work strips eighteen inches wide, 
such as come for decorative purposes, placing one length- 
wise and one crosswise, and under each plate put a 
doily of canvas and bead work; the candelabra placed 
at the corners are to have red shades and red candles. 

The centerpiece is an Indian pottery jar, filled 
with eagle and peacock feathers. A little bark canoe 
on either side is filled with red apples. Over the table 
is stretched a canopy of bandanna silk, in rich reds and 
tans, held to the ceiling by a wooden war shield and 
at the four corners by spears. 

The electric bulbs should be covered with red silk 
to give the effect of candle and firelight shining over 
all. There might be a gay blanket "tepee" with three 
"Indian braves" in brfekskins and blankets, with guitar 
and mandolins to play through dinner vein! and dreamy 
music, also a pretty squaw in leggins, brown skirt and 
beaded jacket to give away souvenirs of bead bags, belts 
and chains, Indian baskets, moccasins, tiny bows and 
arrows and little canoes. 

The china should be the old English ivory and blue 



62 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

ware, but the Chinese gray and white go well with 
this color idea, as well as silver and cut glass. With 
the gay, picturesque coloring of the scene and the guests 
in simple gowns, it is a very effective dinner party. 
The ladies may dress Pilgrim fashion, in simple gray 
cotton crepe gowns with fichus, dainty cuffs, aprons and 
caps of white, and buckled shoes, the men in gray or 
black knee breeches, doublet and hose.' 

The dinner cards should be of birch bark. Now 
comes the menu, which is of great interest and impor- 
tance also. First we serve oyster cocktails, perfectly 
chilled, then cream of tomato soup with dainty croutons. 
Baked red snapper or salmon with oyster sauce, potato 
croquettes, roast turkey, cranberry sauce, saddle of veni- 
son, scalloped potatoes, roast duck, creamed asparagus, 
celery, olives, currant jelly, salted nuts, frozen punch, 
lobster salad, chicken salad, rye sandwiches, cheese 
straws, Indian suet pudding, brandy sauce, maple ice 
cream, bonbons, coffee. 

A HARVEST DINNER 
By Linda Hull Larned 

The time was late in September, the occasion a 
county fair, the place a town in one of the far western 
states, and the episode a prize dinner table in one of 
the departments roped off for the exploits of women. 
But no one in the effete east could ever hope to offer 
anything quite so attractive, and this particular corner 
was more besieged by the masculine element than any 



DINNERS 63 



other exhibit on the grounds. Of course, women were 
there in throngs, i'or in spite of new-fangled notions 
they arc ever eager to encourage the efforts and applaud 
the success of those of their own sex who thus honor 
their especial vocation. 

Among several displays of dinner table settings, 
this won the prize, because it was not only extremely 
unique and deliriously dainty, but because it was appro- 
priate to the occasion, and exceedingly practical and 
easy of accomplishment by anyone with one whit of 
artistic ability. In fact, the fame of this particular 
episode has gone far afield, for New York and Boston 
have since endeavored to imitate its simple splendor, 
until now the "farm dinner" has grown to be quite 
the fad. 

The Table Decorations 

It was an oval, damask covered table, quite large 
enough to seat twelve comfortably. People in Septem- 
ber need plenty of elbow room, for they are just in 
from a summer "all out of doors." The center decora- 
tion was composed of a promiscuous gathering of the 
brightest and shiniest of vegetables in season, all massed 
in artistic confusion. These rested on a bed of autumn 
leaves, and were capped by a huge pumpkin made into 
a Janus-faced jack-o'-lantern. The leaves circled them- 
selves into slim small bottomed figure 8's toward the 
end of the table, and these end rings were garnished 
with fruits, while smaller double-faced pumpkin lanterns 
surmounted their middles. There were four large 



64 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

gourd! cucumbers hollowed out into boat shape, and 
these were also carved into long-drawn, awe-inspiring 
faces. They were propped up against the pile of veg- 
etables and formed the corner sentinels to this bulwark 
of garden produce. 

Of course the center pumpkin man's body was a 
box, which raised him above his fellows, and yet its 
mission was entirely concealed by masses of kale and 
endive, and both red and green cabbage leaves, which 
formed the background for the following vegetables: 
potatoes, small cabbages and cauliflower, both well 
trimmed, turnips, parsnips, carrots, crooked neck squash, 
green corn and tomatoes. String beans, yellow egg 
tomatoes, radishes, brussels sprouts, okra buds and nas- 
turtium vines formed the buds and tendrils for this 
autumn banquet. Many of these were cut so as to show 
only a suggestion of their character, and they were all 
spick and span clean. The end wreaths held apples, 
grapes, melons, plums, peaches, pears and an occasional 
orange. The apples and pears were cut in two the 
long way, so as to show their seeds and luscious white 
interiors. 

In the middle of the fruit mounds, on the outside 
ends, were two more jack-o'-lanterns, made from 
scooped-out eggplants, and their dark, reddish purple 
faces shone with pleasure at the delightful proximity 
of creamy red and white lady apples and pale green 
hothouse grapes. Nasturtium blossoms were tucked into 
every crevice, and their golden yellow petals glittered 
like flecks of hot sunshine left over from the summer. 



DINNERS 65 



There were corsage bouquets for the women made of 
deep, rich red dahlias tied with ribbon grass, and for 
the men boutonnieres of small but perfect sunflowers. 
The china, glass and Bilver were moderate in tone and 
quality, so as not to disturb the harmony of this harvest 
symphony, the glass all fine engraved crystal, and the 
china the old-fashioned plain, gilt-banded white so much 
used in our grandmothers' day. 

The room in which this festive board was laid was 
in utter darkness, and yet the effect was sufficiently 
luminous, as from each pumpkin man's face shone rays 
from the numerous candles or electric lights within, and 
the cucumber corners and eggplant ends sent forth 
enough more light to render the occasion one of weird 
festivity. 

Of course in these clays of practical education, no 
county fair is complete without its food demonstrator, 
therefore this menu bore the hall mark of an expert, 
for it was delicious, and yet withal economical. The 
guests were the "personages" who usually descend upon 
every public gathering in order to give the proper tone 
to the occasion. This especial festivity was graced by 
his excellencw, the lieutenant-governor, and his wife, 
and just a few ordinary mortals, who were, nevertheless, 
county dignitaries. The entire affair was in charge of 
a committee of the woman's department, which was ably 
marshaled by the aforesaid domestic science specialist, 
and many of the good things they prepared Mere com- 
posed of the interior of the decorations, while the 
remainder was of things in season, consequently not 



66 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

expensive, thus setting- an example of thrift and econ- 
omy not to be despised in these days of high-priced 
provender. 

The Various Dishes 

The appetizing beginning was an "autumn canape" 
— slices of toast of uniform size spread with a paste of 
mashed cucumber and mayonnaise dressing, profusely 
sprinkled with mince J green peppers and nasturtium 
pods. A seasonable soup was "brussels sprouts con- 
somme." Everyone knows that brussels sprouts are only 
Lilliputian cabbages, but their delicacy of flavor com- 
pensates for their diminutiveness. One quart of them 
were simply boiled in salted water, then drained into 
the hot consomme. As this particular county was in 
close proximity to one of our inland seas, "lake trout 
fillets with Michigan sauce" was the next course. This 
trout was skinned, boned and cut into small pieces the 
moment it was caught. It was covered with a marinade 
of olive oil, vinegar, salt and pepper until the time 
arrived for it to be cooked; it was then drained, 
sprinkled with salt and pepper, dredged with corn meal . 
and sauted in bacon fat until a golden brown all over. 
It was then served with a spoonful of cold sauce on 
each fillet, the sauce being mayonnaise dressing mixed 
with minced capers, cucumbers and tomatoes, and fresh 
horse-radish grated fine. A dish of fried potato straws 
wis then passed, and so were tiny sandwiches of brown 
bread and butter. The piece de resistance which fol- 
lowed was "roasted ducks," stuffed with mashed potato, 



DINNERS 67 



minced onion fried in bacon fat, and chopped celery. 
With tin's was served a souffle of eggplant and squash, 
which was boiled, then mashed and mixed with soft 
bread crumbs, beaten egg, lemon juice, melted butter, 
salt and pepper. r l 'his was baked and served in a large 
silver vegetal tie dish, and with this course was also 
served a dish of homemade noodles, boiled, drained, 
seasoned with butter, salt and pepper, and covered with 
a sprinkling of Italian cheese, finely grated. Also, for 
the sake of tradition, I suppose, a homely, but excellent 
disli of green corn on the cob. It was deliciously sweet 
and tender and the ordinariness of it was completely 
redeemed by the manner in which it was served. It 
came in concealed by a peculiar shaped napkin of white 
linen embroidered in yellow maize designs, and every 
kernel was scored before sending it to the table, which 
made it possible to scrape it from the cob with a fork. 
After this, directly from the field close by, were 
"steamed fresh mushrooms/' The big ones were baked 
after being stuffed with the little ones, which had been 
mixed with salt and pepper and butter. They were 
then deluged with cream and each one served on its own 
piece of toast covered with a glass cup. 

Then a much-needed respite was taken, during 
which the guests cooled their palates with a muskmelon 
sherbet. The muskmelons were small ones cut into 
halves, each being filled with a lemon ice, colored leaf 
green and garnished with bite of angelica. This cool 
bit of lusciousness stimulated the palate of the guests 
sufficiently to enable them to go on with the feast, and 



68 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

they were quite ready for the medley of vegetables which 
was called a "harvest salad." Upon investigation this 
was found to be composed of small pieces of tomatoes, 
celery, green peppers and sour apples mixed with French 
dressing. This was arranged on plates with lettuce 
leaves. Each one was capped by a tiny mold of cucum- 
ber jelly and garnished around the edge with yellow 
egg tomatoes cut into quarters. With this course were 
hot crackers covered with Young America cheese grated 
and mixed with butter, vinegar, English mustard and 
Wiesbaden sauce. The cucumber jelly was made by 
boiling some more of the cucumber insides with a little 
onion and parsley, then adding half a box of gelatine 
dissolved, a little tarragon vinegar, salt and plenty of 
paprika, to each pint of liquid. The dessert was another 
descent to the everyday rations of Auld Lang Syne, 
but everyone, even the most fastidious, ate with gusto 
one little 

Golden Pumpkin Pielette 

These were made after the old New England recipe, 
but baked in individual tins, then removed and served 
on white and yellow plates supported by nothing more 
substantial than a daiinv yellow and white paper doily. 
In all well-regulated families this would have been 
the last course, but as this was an extraordinary func- 
tion the mounds of "peaches and wheat parfait" were 
greeted as enthusiastically as any that had gone before. 
These were made of boiled custard mixed with a small 
quantity of a powdered preparation of wheat, to which 



DINNERS 69 



was added when cold its bulk in whipped and sweetened 
cream, and a flavoring of peach and almond extract. 
This was poured into ordinary coffee cups upon halves of 
peaches, then packed in ice and salt. When served they 
were sprinkled with powdered sugar and garnished 
with peach leaves. 

This entire menu, with the exception of the piece 
de resistance, was served from the side by the capable 
'assistants of the. demonstrator, who were also the "com- 
mittee." The "judge" was invited to be master of cere- 
monies, and it was evident that he had had much 
experience by the skillful manner in which he manipu- 
lated the ducks. With the tiny cups of French coffee 
came the call for toasts, and the judge again showed 
his knowledge of the fitness of things by immediately 
squelching the facetious guest who demanded that the 
"demonstrator'' be called upon to give them a "milk 
toast." 



ARTISTIC DINNER DECORATIONS 

By Mary Putnam 

For a successful geranium dinner, the hostess 
carried ont a scheme of her own. Down the center of 
the table extended a long, narrow box, or succession of 
boxes, of stiff cardboard. Geranium cuttings, each bear- 
ing large red blossoms and bedded in wet tissue paper, 
filled the boxes. " The sides of this box arrangement 
were banked, so to speak, with fine ferns. This was 



70 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

done by building up a sand bank, on a paper surface, 
against the box, and sticking the ferns in the sand. 
The red of this novel centerpiece was matched in the 
bill of fare with tomato bisque soup and' the dash of 
color which maraschino cherries gave to the whipped 
cream surmounting parfait glasses of chocolate ice. The 
ice, the cream and the cherries were a symphony in 
brown, red and white. 

Everybody was in clover at the dinner with this 
designation, for it was an engagement dinner, and in 
the huge round dish on the table were almost clovers 
enough to hide the blooming fiancee in its pink flores- 
cence. Radiating from the bouquet were pink ribbons, 
each ending in a heart, made for the occasion and 
bearing a highly sentimental motto. The guests tugged 
at the hearts until the ribbon ends were drawn from 
out the bouquet, and attached to one ribbon was found 
a ring. This, of course, betokened the early engage- 
ment of the girl who drew it. Big clover blossoms and 
leaves were pinned on the lamp shades, and the cards 
were decorated with tiny cupids. Strawberry sherbet 
of a decidedly pink hue was served in tall parfait glasses, 
topped with whipped cream and fresh strawberries. 

For the birthday of a dainty college girl, the sweet 
pea was chosen as the flower for table decorations, the 
sweet pea in enchanting profusion. In the center of 
the table was a tall vase of beautiful favrile glass, con- 
taining sweet peas and heaped about with bunches of 
sweet peas in a veritable little mountain, almost three 
feet in diameter. There were three or four dozens of 



DINNERS 71 



the peas in each bunch. From this fairy structure 
trailed ribbons, starting with great, luxuriant bows. 
The guests received dinner favors of stickpins of sweet 
pea design, pink and white. 

The prettiest dinner of all was the buttercup. A 
great bouquet of buttercups shed its glory over the round 
table and the entire room. The big brass dish which 
held it was encircled at a distance of about eight inches 
with a row of smilax, and outside this was a fringe of 
the flat leaves of the jonquil, all of* the same size, like 
a conventional pattern. Xarrow ferns might take the 
place of the jonquil leaves at a later season. At the 
plates were bunches of jonquils. The candles and the 
lamp shades were yellow. 

A CHINESE DINNER 

By Harriet Quimby 

An invitation recently sent out by a this season's 
debutante provoked the keenest of delight among her 



fc !$? & & $ 

f-f * * # *f 

THE MENU CARD WRITTEN BY A CHINAMAN 

half dozen favored friends, who, after examining the 
dainty water color sketch of a Chinese belle in gay attire, 



72 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

like a gorgeous butterfly poised for a moment on the 
corner of the card, read: "Will the most beautiful 

daughter of the Hon. S accept the solicitation of 

her humble and unimportant friend to join in the 
gathering of the oriental daughters and partake of the 
most ancient and blessed blossom feast to which the 
gods of our fathers have given sanction. On the 
eighteenth hour of the ninth day of the first month." 

A Chinese luncheon or dinner suggests more novel 
decorations than almost any other. It can be given at 
a cost of fifty cents per plate, or the estimate may easily 
run up to the fifty-dollar mark. The decorations may 
be simple and picturesque ; in fact, the gay colors needed 
to give atmosphere can be purchased for a few cents. 
For a more substantial repast than a flower feast, chop 
suey or a pineapple chicken may be added to the menu. 

If the invitations are for the afternoon, the curtains 
should be drawn and a few Chinese lanterns — red is the 
most characteristic color — hung here and there in the 
dining room, give a mysterious, subdued effect. Chinese 
incense (sandalwood is the best) can be bought for a 
few cents. A small dish of charcoal is needed. Upon 
this lay, kindling wood fashion, a few squares of the 
sandalwood. After a moment's contact with trie coal, 
a slender column of perfumed smoke will curl in ascend- 
ing spirals, filling the air with a pleasing fragrance. 
Punk is also pleasing, but not so dainty as the sandal- 
wood. However, if the latter is used, a small orange 
suspended by a w r ire may be filled, the wooden ends of 
flic incense thrust in the fruit, as many as the space 



DINNERS 73 



will allow. Each lighted, and the glowing ball swinging 
directly over the table, lends a quaint oriental effect. 
A girl clever with tissue paper can make a lew branches 
of cherry or plum blossoms, using real twigs and fasten- 
ing the blossoms with paste. The hostess may or may 
not be attired in Chinese costume, but when she prepares 
the blossom dessert, as she may do at table with the 
chafing-dish, she will make a far more fascinating 
picture gowned in the charming frock of Ah Chee 
("golden branches"). 

If she learns a few ceremonious phrases and 
assumes a flowery speech for the afternoon, the fun will 
be the greater. 

The first course of an oriental dinner is tea served 
in tiny bowls. To make this perfectly, the boiling water 
must first be turned in the bowl to warm it, then back 
to the kettle. The tea leaves are then thrown in the 
bowl, the water poured over, and it can be served imme- 
diately. This is sipped from the bowl. Next a preserve 
of some kind is served. If in the city, where the Chinese 
preserved fruits can be bought, then gun got (preserved 
limes), ginger, called town gong, or sir lee (sweet pears) 
may answer. But if the hostess wishes to preserve the 
Chinese appetizer herself, then she may buy at any fruit 
stand the small Chinese mandarin: Cut the peel down 
in lily form, leaving the bottom whole and the white 
on top exposed. Drop these into boiling water, cook 
until tender. Have prepared in a porcelain kettle a 
thick syrup of wlnte sugar and water. Boil until a drop 
in cold water has the consistency of wax. Then drop 



74 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

• 

in the oranges, put on the back of the stove and let 
simmer for half an hour. Take out, let dry in the oven 
until the surface is glazed. This not only is a very 
artistic preserve, but a delicious one. Chinese nuts are 
very good with this. 

If soup is desired, a chicken mushroom soup is very 
nice and more apt to be relished than birdsnest or shark 
fins. Boil a young chicken until a rich stock is made, 
into this jmt half a dozen water chestnuts shaved thin 
to give flavor; a bit of chopped ham, salt, pepper. Cut 
some of the white meat into dice, let all boil together 
twenty minutes. Mushrooms may be added. Just before 
serving, beat two eggs lightly and stir them in. Sprinkle 
with chopped parsley and serve immediately. 

Chop Suey — For six persons. One pound of water 
chestnuts; two pounds of bean sprouts, which can be 
procured at any Chinese vegetable stand. While shop- 
ping, buy a quarter's worth of gee yow, a Chinese sauce 
made only in China, and which enters into nearly all 
oriental meat dishes. It is a brown looking liquid with 
a peculiar flavor and can be purchased of any Chinese 
dealer. The water chestnuts must be shaved thin; add 
a little sliced celery, one small onion chopped, half a 
dozen mushrooms ; cut young chicken into small pieces. 
Have a kettle with peanut oil (in same quantity as lard 
would be used), into this place the vegetables and 
chicken all together. Let fry until tender, stirring often 
to prevent burning. Just before taking off add the bean 
sprouts, which must not cook too long, as they are better 
when little more than half done. Drain off the liquor, 



DINNERS 75 



add a little flour to thicken; salt to taste. Just at the 
last add a teaspoonful of the brown sauce. Pour all over 
the chop sue}', stir together and serve. 

Pineapple Fisli — A dish recently introduced in Xew 
York and much relished by the epicure. Take a fresh 
fish, pike preferred, remove bones, cut in inch squares. 
Make a batter of egg* and flour; dip the squares of fish 
until well covered, and drop in smoking hot peanut oil 
until a dainty brown. Let dry in the oven until vegeta- 
bles are prepared. Chop a little celery, one small green 
onion, about five mushrooms and one small can of pine- 
apple. Drain off the juice ; chop the pineapple into small 
pieces. Then add the pineapple juice, enough to cover, 
and boil all together. Just before serving, drop in the. 
squares of fish. Carry to table piping hot. 

This is a dainty condiment in which the fish takes 
on a delicious flavor from the pineapple and defies 
analysis as to just what kind of meat it is. 

To prepare squab a la Chinese, boil whole in salted 
water until half done; take out, dry with napkin; drop 
into a pot of peanut oil as for doughnuts and brown 
slowly. The Chinese do not make bread; rice is eaten 
with every course. Sometimes, however, a sort of biscuit 
is served. To make these, mix as for ordinary biscuit. 
Prepare chopped ham, a bit of parsley, chopped onion, 
a few mushrooms ; then take mixture about the size of 
a walnut, wrap the dough around it and steam until 
done. These are very good served with the pike or with 
chicken. 

Pineapple (Thicken — Take a raw chicken and cut 



76 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

in good sized pieces, fry slowly in peanut oil until done. 
Take canned pineapple cut in dice, let boil for a moment 
and add to the chicken with enough juice to make 
gravy. With the pineapple chicken or with any roast 
or fried meats (the Chinese never boil meat), a brown 
salt is given. Common table salt is put in the oven until 
a rich dark brown. While it is still salt it takes on a 
different flavor, and is always served with a high-class 
Chinese dinner. 

Chrysanthemum Dessert — Take two eggs, beat 
lightly; add wheat flour to make thin batter; no salt. 
Take a fresh chrysanthemum^ yellow or white preferred, 
though any color will do; wash well, then pluck leaves, 
stir in batter. Chop a little of the green leaf also and 
add. Stir well together. Have ready smoking hot 
peanut oil. Take fork, pick up a few leaves out of the 
batter, drop lightly in oil, brown for a moment and 
remove to drain on absorbent paper. These may be 
done in the afternoon. Just before serving, drop again 
in the oil to make the outside crisp; sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and serve. 

A more dainty dish cannot be imagined than this 
chrysanthemum conceit, which looks as dainty as it 
tastes. Rose leaves are prepared in the same way; 
honeysuckle or violets may be used to lend variety to 
color; but none are so delightful to the palate as the 
chrysanthemum. These may be prepared in a short 
time with the chafing-dish, and for an ordinary after- 
noon tea, served with champagne wafers, they make a 
most novel refreshment. If deep red roses are used, the 



DINNERS 77 



color is beautiful. The drops of yellow chrysanthemums 
look like buttercups. 

For a good Chinese candy, home prepared, to be 
the last course, and pretty served in little plum blossom 
favors, take a fresh eocoanut, cut in two-inch strips, boil 
in syrup until tender ; let dry in slow oven and roll in 
powdered sugar. The Chinese lychee nuts can be pur- 
chased anywhere. 

Another candy, very nice and in keeping with an 
oriental dinner, is common potato sliced an eighth of an 
inch thick. Boil in syrup until almost done; sprinkle 
well with ginger; let dry in a slow oven and roll in 
powdered sugar before serving. It is very difficult for 
one uninitiated to say what this candy is, yet it is very 
appetizing and exceedingly wholesome. 



FOR A BIRTHDAY 
By B. P. 

An openwork cut silver fern dish, filled with 
exquisite growing ferns (a birthday gift), and the 
possession of a grandmother with silver candlesticks, 
which she is willing to lend, gave the motif for the 
silver and pink decorations of the tabls to be described. 
Even the bonbons were encased in silver foil and the 
frosting on the cake was imbedded with infinitesimal 
sflver candies — dragees, in confectioner's parlance. A 
genial glow was shed over the table by light coming 
through pink candle shades, and this color was accentu- 



78 



THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



ated by bunches of large, long-stemmed roses placed at 
each plate, eight in each rose holder. 

* * * * "Who dreams without their thorns of 
roses?" Verily, she who makes the holders, and they 
who receive the roses in them ! For by this device the 
flowers can he handled without care! A flat pattern of 
the holder is given, with measures and directions for 




folding. The material to be used is rough, medium- 
weight water-color paper, the edges picked and torn 
unevenly in imitation of handmade paper, and a border 
of liquid silver is applied to both back and front; orna- 
ment further if you wish with silver scroll work, but 
leave the large out-turning flap plain. Lay the flowers 
along the space marked C ; the stems are to go through 
the opening in line A, and be kept in place by a ribbon 



DINNERS 79 



(in this case a wide, soft pink one) which passes over 
them, through the slit in the line B, and ties in an 
artistic bow. The large flap is reserved for a quotation, 
printed in silver as prettily as may be. The finished 
affair is not put at the place of the person "to whom it 
most concerns," but is carefully laid for somebody else. 
When the guests leave the table at the end of the dinner, 
each one gives his bunch of roses to the one for whom 
he thinks the quotation most fitting; there is seldom 
any mistake, if the hits are palpable to the undiscerning, 
as they should be; it is no place for a delicate analysis 
of character. The sentiments naturally vary with the 
occasion and the age of the participants. The personal 
quotation idea at a dinner is generally a success; but as 
an imperative factor in making it so, the selections 
would better be of a complimentary nature, and never 
be hits upon unpleasant facts which could possibly hurt 
or offend. It is easy to find dozens of short, pithy 
classics in both prose and verse, that are applicable and 
"pat." At a family party I attended last year a great 
deal of fun came from the use of original squibs, 
doggerel and play upon the names, fads and foibles of 
its members, which would, however, have but little 
suggestion for the general reader. Even in the quota- 
tions for the dinner in hand several changes were neces- 
sary for publication — but it gives the idea: 

"Well may yon always be, 
111 may you never see, 
Here's to your health, 
And the good companie!" 



8o THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

"One of the few, the immortal names, that wore 
not born to die !" 

"The glass of fashion and the mold of form!" 

"Full of wise saws, and modern instances.'* 

"He hath prosperous art 
When he will play with reason and discourse, 
And well he can persuade."' 

"All the world loves a lover !" 

"A laugh is worth a hundred groans in any 
market !" 

"The kindest one,— 
The best conditioned and unwearied spirit 
In doing courtesies." 

"She was the sweet marjoram of the salad, or 
rather, the herb of grace." 

"Of stature tall — I hate a dumpy woman !" 

"You have a nimble wit; I think it was made of 
Atalanta's heels." 

"Thou art thy mother's glass, and she in thee, 
Calls back the lovely April of her prime." 



DINNERS 81 



"Her voice was ever soft, 
GSntle and low; an excellent tiling in woman."' 

"Thou pendulum betwixt a smile and tear!" 

It is unnecessary to say that the first one went uner- 
ringly to the host, and the "immortal' 7 one, without a 
quiver of hesitation, to the man who rejoices in the not 
unusual cognomen of Smith. The dandy of the com- 
pany, to his apparent satisfaction, received the third 
quotation, and the eighth in the list was given, of 
course, to the hostess. Only the kind heart of the 
compiler kept her from substituting for number eleven : 

"Look, she's winding up the watch of her wit — ■ 
bye and bye it will strike!" 

it was so distinctly characteristic; but you see, it has 
a little sting. 

The following menu combined with the table dec- 
orations to make what "he whom we delighted to honor" 
thought was a fortunate and pleasing effect of color : 

Creme de marron Pulled bread 

Oyster loaf Celery 

Frogs' legs, fried Stuffed mushrooms 

Orange punch 

Redhead duck Sweet potatoes with sherry 

Clvoon grape jelly 

String bean salad in ice-block 



82 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

Welsh sandwiches 

]NTesselrode pudding Maraschino sauce 

Angel cake Coffee 

Crewe de Marron — Boil and blanch three pints of 
chestnuts. Pound one pint and reserve for the pudding. 
Return the remaining quart to the kettle and stew 
tender in enough water to a little more than cover. 
Press through a fine sieve and add one quart of white 
stock. Heat to the boiling point and season with salt, 
pepper, a few drops of nutmeg, onion and celery 
essence. Lastly add one pint of whipped cream. Color 
green with a few drops of spinach extract. 

Oyster Loaf — I quite envy the woman who serves 
this dish for the first time, if her guests "fall to" with 
the same gusto ours did. Prepare a fresh loaf of 
baker's bread by cutting out a square from one end and 
tearing out the inside, as whole as possible. When but 
a shell is left, butter it well inside. Wash and drain a 
quantity of fine oysters, according to the size of the loaf, 
and fill it exactly as you would a dish for scalloped 
oysters, seasoning in layers with butter, pepper and salt, 
but omitting the crumbs. Replace the end of the loaf, 
rub the outside lightly with butter, set in a dripping 
pan and bake for about half an hour — a little longer 
than in a dish. The loaf will swell enough to keep the 
"lid" in place. Serve on a long platter in a border of 
cress. Probably as you try to cut it, it will crush to a 
savory mass. Make pulled bread of the inside of the 
loaf and dry in the oven. 



DINNERS 83 



Dip the frogs' legs in milk; sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, roll in flour and cook to a delicate brown in 
deep, smoking hot fat. Serve on a napkin with 

Stuffed Mushrooms — Take off the stalks from 
fresh, large mushrooms, peel the caps with a silver knife 
and drop them into cold water to keep them white. If 
they must stand for some time add a little lemon juice 
'to the writer ; scrape the stalks, chop, and put into a 
saucepan with one tablespoonful of butter and a slice 
of onion : cook slowly for ten minutes, then add a table- 
spoonful of flour and cook five minutes more; add one 
cupful of stock ami one-half cupful of bread crumbs; 
season with salt and a dash of cayenne. Fill the mush- 
room cups with this mixture, sprinkle with buttered 
crumbs, place on circles of fried or toasted bread about 
the size of the mushroom, and bake in a moderate oven 
for fifteen minutes. 

Orange Punch — Boil together a quart of water and 
two and one-half cupfuls of sugar for ten minutes; add 
the juice of six oranges and one lemon; strain, and when 
cold add the contents of a pint bottle of champagne, 
and a very small quantity of damask-rose color paste, 
and freeze. This quantity, served in punch cups, was 
enough to put fourteen palates in readiness for 

Duck — Pick, singe and wipe outside. Salt and 
pepper the inside after carefully drawing and wiping 
out with a piece of old linen. Do not wash them. Cut 
off the wings at the second joint and truss the duek 
neatly. Roast in a very hot oven from fifteen to twenty 
minutes, in a baking pan containing a little water ; baste 



84 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

frequently. Celery or onions, or apples, cored and 
quartered, are sometimes placed inside the duck to 
improve the flavor. The breasts of our cluck were 
removed in the kitchen, whole and hot, and sent to the 
table, one each on hot individual plates, on a small piece 
of fried hominy. 

When "canvasback" or "redhead" are on the menu, 
the host sometimes prefers to carve at table ; in that case 
it is customary, after drawing the duck, to cut an open- 
ing- at the neck, and through it pull the head and neck, 
letting the head emerge at the hark between the drum- 
sticks and tying it securely in place. This method of 
serving says to your guests. "You are eating canvasback, 
at five dollars a pair," and lias the additional objection 
of giving cold portions, unless the host is an expert 
carver. 

The day following this dinner we had a salad from 
the meat remaining on the uncarved parts, which I give : 

Duel- Salad — Cut the duck in small uniform bits, 
and marinate with a French dressing, substituting 
orange juice for lemon juice or vinegar. Mix with half 
the quantity, each, of orange carpels, freed from seeds 
and skin, and tender bits of celery. Add more dressing 
and garnish with olives and slices of orange, from which 
the skin has not been taken. 

Sweet Potatoes with Sherry (.Miss Farmer) — Bake 
a dozen medium-sized potatoes till soft, and cut in 
halves lengthwise. Scoop out the inside, press through 
a potato ricer, season with butter, salt and a dash of 
sherry, moisten with cream and put back in the shells, 



DINNERS 85 



Leaving a roughened surface on top. Brown in a 
hot oven. 

An old soldering iron that I have threatened to 
throw away every spring and fall for — I didn't say how 
many years ! — helped me out in preparing my ice dish. 
I attempted to freeze an ice bowl in a double mold, with 
my small freezer, and failed dismally; but " 'can do' is 
an easy thing to carry about with you I" so I took a 
square block of ice and melted out with my despised 
soldering iron a shapely hollow, big enough to hold the 
salad, lined the hollow with lettuce leaves and filled it 
with a salad of string beans; then set the block of ice 
on a folded napkin on a large silver tray and garnished 
the base with lettuce and olives, the latter resting in 
pink rose leaves. 

Welsh Sandwiches — Rub together two parts of soft, 
mild cheese and one part of butter; flavor with mustard 
and an herb vinegar, and spread between thin slices of 
bread, cut in dainty shapes. 

Nesselrode Pudding — One half-pint of almonds, 
chopped and pounded; one pint of chestnuts (prepared 
as above directed), one half -pint of pineapple, grated; 
one-quarter of a pound of mixed candied fruits, cut into 
dice and soaked in two tablespoons each of sherry and 
maraschino; one-half pint of cream; yolks of five eggs; 
two teaspoons of vanilla; one-half pint of boiling 
water and one-half pint of sugar. Boil sugar, water 
and juice from the pineapple for ten minutes. Beat 
yolks and add, cooking like a custard. Cool and beat 
light. Mix nuts- and candied fruits with the cream, 



86 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

add the flavoring and a bit of salt, fold into the custard 
and freeze in the usual way. Serve with a garnish of 
whipped cream, sprinkled with candied rose leaves, 
or with 

Maraschino Sauce — Beat to a cream the yolks of 
two eggs and two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 
Stir over the fire in a double boiler till the egg is 
slightly thickened ; take from the heat and continue to 
beat till the mixture is cold ; it will be light and creamy. 
Acid two tablespoonfuls of maraschino and mix lightly 
with half a pint of cream whipped to a dry, stiff froth. 
Serve on the dish with the pudding. 



A CHERRY BLOSSOM DINNER 

By Grace Hortense Tower 

Unique beyond anything that had ever before been 
given in the social line in Pasadena, California, was a 
cherry blossom dinner given by T. Aoki, a Japanese 
artist, in honor of the cherry blossom festival of Japan. 
For weeks, Aoki and his students, some of them Ameri- 
can girls who study with him, had been busy decorating 
the studio, painting the dinner cards and decorating 
and writing the cards of invitation, seventy-five of which 
were dispatched by special messenger three days before 
the affair was to take place. Six thousand artificial 
cherry blossoms had been sent from Japan for the 
embellishment of a large natural cherry tree which 
occupied the center of the great oval table. Dozens of 



DINNERS 



87 




THE HOST AND HIS HELPERS PREPARING FOR THE 
CHERRY BLOSSOM DINNER 



88 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

wild goat skins, upon which were wrought most exquisite 
designs of peonies, iris, cherry blossoms, dragons, storks, 
demons and gods, covered one wall, while above ran a 
double frieze of crimson and green matting made of 
the fiber of the famous Japanese dwarf pine. Clusters 
of purple wistaria blossoms were painted upon the green, 
while the stately iris embellished the crimson. Upon 
the opposite wall were queer Japanese symbols and ban- 
ners, the massive pillars being inscribed with little love 
stories and Japanese poems to the cherry tree, following 
out the pretty Japanese custom of hanging poems upon 
the blossom-laden trees in the glad springtime. 

The windows had been painted to represent a 
garden of flowers, purple iris, rose-tinted cherry blos- 
soms and graceful wistaria clusters rivaling one another 
in beauty. The only hint that one was not in a corner 
of the flowery kingdom was the large silken American 
flag, whose graceful folds were draped with the flag of 
Japan from the ceiling over the table. 

Scores of odd white lanterns, painted in fleur-de-lis, 
were caught to walls, pillars and screens, while upon 
each picket of the little bamboo fence surrounding the 
"centerpiece" was a pink lantern. A shower of pink 
petals covered the space beneath the tree, while the 
tablecloth had been painted an hour or two before the 
dinner, with huge pink cherry blossoms. 

The favors for the ladies were miniature jinrikishas, 
the typical Japanese vehicle, while tiny china mandarins 
and gods were given the men. The napkins were of 
cherry blossom pink tissue paper. The delicate pink 



DINNERS 89 



and gold wine cups with an embossed cherry blossom 
in the bowl were also given the guests as souvenirs 
after they had drunk the host's health in the pungent 
rice wine served in them. The menu was as follows : 

Consomme peony 

Lovers' knot potpourri 

Carp fish 

Golden epaulets and compound salads 

Braised chicken Spring mushrooms 

Royal gems Pounded fish 

Cherry blossom tea 

Excellent palace rice 

Vegetables carved to represent fleur-de-lis and peonies 

Hama Chidore 

Mixed fruits 

Six Japanese men deftly and noiselessly served the 
dinner, the little host explaining each course as it was 
brought in. Suddenly during the course of the meal 
there burst upon the air strange wailing notes, weird, 
yet sweet, and in a moment Xakamura, another Japa- 
nese artist, came in and played to the guests quaint 
Japanese lullabies upon his flute — a straight piece of 
bamboo hollowed out and as smooth as ivory. 



go THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



THE "COLD COMFORT DINNER" 

By Mary Dawson 

Each course at one of these affairs is served cold 
and the comfort extends equally to hostess, guest and 
maid. The woman who does not keep a maid can enter- 
tain charmingly in this way and without the addition 
of that final course so often seen in maid less entertain- 
ing, of "hot, worn-out hostess. " Here are a few "cold 
comfort" menus in outline. Using these as a basis the 
busy housekeeper will he able to build up a simple or 
elaborate bill of fare without much planning. 

MENU NO 1 

Fruit frappe served in tumblers 

Deviled eggs Cress sandwiches 

Cold sliced or jellied tongue Potato salad 

Coffee Rolls and butter 

Individual molds of wine jelly containing candied fruit 

Ice cream Cake Bonbons 

MENU NO 2 

Grape fruit 

Cold consomme with toasted erackers 

Pickled fish 

Game in season Cold sliced ham 

Potato salad Rolls and butter Currant jelly 

Dressed cucumbers in cucumber baskets 
Berries Ice cream Riisses Coffee 



DINNERS 9I 



MENU NO 3 

Clams 

Iced bouillon 

Cold salmon Olive sandwiches 

Cold chicken Stuffed rolls 

Hollowed out tomatoes filled with dressed asparagus tips 

Hot coffee Frozen pudding Iced tea 

Wine croquettes 

MENU NO 4 

Frapped grapes 

Cold clam bouillon 

Chicken salad Olives Boll* and butter 

Coffee 

Stuffed eggs in lettuce nests 

Orange jelly in orange baskets Ice cream 

Cake Bonbons 



AN OMAR KHAYYAM DINNER 
By M. C. D. 

One of the prettiest ideas developed lately in dinner 
decorating, which can be earned out by anyone with 
some skill in drawing, is an Omar Khayyam dinner. 
The scheme of such a dinner embraces name cards 
decorated in Persian designs in Persian rug colors, each 
bearing an appropriate quotation from the Rubaiyat, 
which abounds with them. The quotations should be 



92 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

done in red on dark brown cards, with the name under- 
neath. In the center of the table a large irregularly cut 
skin in brown or dark red, which can be purchased 
for a dollar in any of the art shops, should be placed, 
and on this a pot full of deep red roses. The pot, of 
course, refers to the Eubaiyat lines on the potter, and, 
let it be whispered, the family bean pot will be pictur- 
esque, if no other is available. 

A LITERARY DINNER 

By M. C. D. 

At a dinner given by a literary woman in honor of 
a literary man, the menu and flowers were not unusual, 
but the name cards were. At each place the hostess 
had laid a rejection slip of one of the prominent mag- 
azines or newspapers. These were all mounted on large 
fancy pasteboard cards, so that the symmetry of the 
table was preserved and on the plain margins the name 
of the guest who was to occupy the place had been 
written. The guests, most of whom were contributors, 
saw the joke at once and all laughed over the merry 
conceit, Then the rejection slips were read and a vote 
taken as to which one embroidered its rejection with 
the most skill. A similar idea was put into effect at 
the Bohemian club in San Francisco, where a New York 
editor was entertained by a number of western writers. 
The tablecloth was entirely covered with rejected man- 
uscripts, their pages being scattered loosely over the 
cloth. 



DINNERS 93 



A TOY DINNER 



By Mary Dawson 



A toy dinner for grown-up people is a new and 
fascinating idea for entertaining formally around Christ- 
mas season. The table centerpiece is a Christmas tree 
from the toy shop, trimmed as if for a child's party. 
Each guest, as he sits down, finds at his cover a plaything 
in place of a favor. The toys are chosen to fit the host- 
ess' pocketbook. If economy is an object, woolly lambs, 
jacks-in-boxes, dolls, et cetera, arc used. If there is no 
particular financial limit, mechanical toys are good fun. 
One ingenious hostess who entertained a Christmas 
dinner last year inserted a clause in her invitations 
asking each man or woman to come bringing the most 
ingenious mechanical toy that could be secured to com- 
pete in a contest. The toys were unwrapped between 
courses at dinner. Afterward, in the drawing room, 
each owner exhibited his toy. A general vote was taken 
up to decide which was the cleverest. Each player voted 
for any except his own by dropping a signed ballot into 
a box held by the hostess. Prizes were awarded for those 
toys for which most votes were cast. 



94 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 




THE GUESTS AT A PRETTY DINNER FOUND AT THEIR 
RESPECTIVE PLATES LETTERS STANDING, EASEL 
FASHION, SO AS TO SPELL THE NAME OF THE CLUB 
TO WHICH THEY BELONGED. THE LETTERS WERE 
CUT OUT OF CARDBOARD AND WERE DECORATED IN 
WATER COLORS, THIS DUTCH MAIDEN BEING A 
LIGHT BLUE. 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 

A SPRINGTIME LUNCHEON 
By Anne "Warner 

ONE bleak and tearful day in early April this 
simple and dainty board was laid, beguiling a 
few guests into a belief in the existence of the 
April that we long for and read about, and which, in 
our climate, is seemingly a sad laggard. Yet the pussy 
willows used in decorating had been gathered a few 
days before when March had "gone out like a lamb/"' 
The center of the antique table of polished mahog- 
any held, on a square of Armenian drawn work, a low 
iridescent glass vase, yellow and green tones predom- 
inating. The vase was filled with salt, and into this 
foundation the willow twigs were crowded and kept 
firmly in place. Upon the pussies a cloud of } r ellow 
butterflies had apparently alighted and were balancing 
airily. One of these "winged flowers" poised on the 
edge of each tumbler and served as a place card and 
souvenir. Everyone saw at once, of course, that they 
were paper and in the same instant wondered how they 
could "fly." The trick is a simple and pretty one. The 
coloring and shape are approximately those of the 
clouded sulphur butterfly — the common "puddle butter- 
fly" of our childhood — which sits every summer in 
swarms in moist spots and makes the wayside gay with 



98 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

the flash of yellow wings. One poor colias philodice 
was sacrificed to be a guide in markings' and shadings. 

Outline the pattern on the thinnest torchon board 
(torchon paper is not heavy enough) and paint in water 
color in broad. washes. Use transparent colors, lemon 
yellow for the center of the wings ; a pale tint of Vene- 
tian red for the beautiful outer edges of same, and 
vandyke brown and black for the peculiar markings 
oetwe- \ The two "eyes" on the upper wings should 
be black and those on the lower ones a deeper tint of 
pinkish red. A faint wash of pale green and a few 
veinings in the shadows improve the lower wings. The 
body is painted dark as in nature. When dry, cut out 
with sharp scissors, carefully following the outline. 

Get a small quantity of buckshot ¥ F and hie thee 
with it to a machine shop where jobbing is done and 
where an amiable and patient man will follow orders. 
Experiments showed that the best way to flatten the 
shot is in a vise. If a piece of one-sixteenth steel be 
fastened between the jaws of the vise the shot can, one 
by one, be compressed to a uniform thickness and will 
be about three-eighths of an inch in diameter. (I feel 
quite important giving instructions about a vise, inas- 
much as I never even saw one before this experience — 
or, at least, not one spelt with an "s.") 

With a little fish glue fasten one of these weights 
very near the end of the elongated point of each upper 
wing. To make still more secure, and for the sake of 
neatness, cover the lead with a circle of white tissue 
paper, usmg in this case one of the white pastes that 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 99 

come in tubes; these dry quickly and do not discolor. 
( hi placing the head of the insect on the tip of the finger, 

or on any support not too slippery, it will be found to 
balance perfectly if directions have been followed. The 
position gives the butterfly a singularly lifelike appear- 
ance, which is enhanced by a slight swaying and waving 
motion caused by every draft of air. 

Bunches of single sweet-scented yellow jonquils in 
hall and living rooms made spring in the house. Two 
or three of the same blossoms — stemless — floated in 
opalescent fingerbowls on a side table. Gold and white 
china was used so far as practicable, and a few pussy 
twigs ornamented the plates of the first course, which 
was on the table when the guests sat down. 

MENU 

Oyster relish 

Celery Sandwiches 

Whitebait 

^ Tu sit souffle White radishes 

Chicken timbales Stuffed eggs Bolls 

Washington salad Imperial sticks 

Pineapple in shell Sweet sandwiches 

Filled dates Oranges glace 

Cqfe au lait 

Blessings truly brighten as they take flight. The 
housekeeper hunts celery now with as keen a zest as if 
her family had not nibbled it with relish all winter; we 
enjoy oysters better than ever when we realize how near 



ioo THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

is the first "r"-less month. Yet with what avidity do 
we grasp at any new way of offering old standbys. 
Oysters are never better than on the half shell, but the 
arrangement here given has the advantage of novelty. 

Make shallow cups by cutting small shaddocks in 
halves crosswise and removing the pulp; fill with fine 
oysters and a very few bits of pulp, and lightly cover 
with a white cap of dressing made of three tablespoons 
of grated horse-radish root, one tablespoon of vinegar, 
one-quarter teaspoon of salt and a little paprika — "the 
goddess of good digest ion" ; add last of all four table- 
spoons of cream whipped stiff. Cups, oysters and dress- 
ing should be thoroughly chilled and the dressing pre- 
pared and put on only at the latest possible moment. 
An excellent way to send the cups to table is to half 
bury them in shaved ice. The cups used at this luncheon 
were prepared three days beforehand and had been kept 
fresh under water, the pulp having been appropriated 
for a salad at a previous affair. One can save both 
work and material by a little forethought. 

Look over and wash the tiny fish with great care 
and ruh dry in an old soft napkin. When everything is 
in readiness, roll in flour a sufficient number to cover 
thC bottom of a fine-meshed wire basket and imme- 
diately immerse in smoking hot fat. It takes but a 
moment to cook them. Turn on to a paper and sprinkle 
with salt. Let the fat get up to the right temperature 
while the next "batch" is being floured. Toss them on a 
sieve to shake off the surplus flour. Serve on a hot 
napkin on a hotter plate and garnish with a lemon slice 



102 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

whieK has had the upper side covered with chopped 
parsley. 

They are delicious when attention is given to small 
details. If you have a cook that you cannot trust to 
do this, a slice of halibut, cut from the lower part of the 
fish, makes a good course cooked as follows : Scrape the 
skin and wipe; season with salt and pepper; lay in a 
pan and spread the top with a tablespoon each of butter 
and flour cooked together. Add a few narrow strips of 
salt pork and broil or bake in a hot oven till brown. 
Put diagonally across a hot platter and arrange a mound 
of Parisienne potatoes in one corner and pour a white 
sauce in the other — garnish same as whitebait. With 
either the souffle is most appetizing, as it is also with 
chicken. 

Mush Souffle (Mrs Korer) — Heat one pint of milk; 
stir in three-quarters of a cup of granulated corn meal 
and one teaspoon of salt and cook till well scalded. 
Take from fire and add the yolks of four eggs, one at a 
time, stirring after each addition. Beat whites of the 
eggs with a pinch of salt and fold in. Bake twenty 
minutes in a well-greased baking dish in a quick oven 
and serve at once. Eat with butter. 

The timbales were poached in individual buttered 
molds decorated with truffles, one tiny can of truffles 
being enough, and were turned out on the center of a 
round platter. Arranged about them in a circle were 
the eggs, and a thin, rich Allemande sauce was poured 
round the whole. 

Stuffed Eggs — Boil six eggs twenty minutes; 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 103 

remove shells and cut carefully crosswise. Mash the 
yolks, season with a teaspoon of softened butter, a few 
drops of onion juice and half the quantity of deviled 
ham or tongue. Make into balls and fill the white 
halves. The olives for the course were stuffed with 
capers. 

At this particular luncheon the springlike effect 
was accentuated by the dishes in which the salad 
appeared — excellent majolica imitations of romaine 
leaves — a single one for each person, some of them 
having an ornament of a very realistic radish. A large 
dish in this ware, formed of several leaves in a circle 
curving upward, and a mayonnaise cup, simulating a 
pale green lettuce heart, make a pretty set for many 
salads where .the other table appointments are not too 
elegant. 

Washington Salad — Clean, blanch and prepare 
sweetbreads as usual. Cook in salted, acidulated water 
containing a slice of onion and a bit of bay leaf; cool 
and cut in slices. Add half the quantity of sliced 
cucumbers which have lain in an ice water bath 
an hour or so and then been dried and seasoned with 
onion juice, wdiite pepper and salt. Mix with a plain 
oil dressing, made without mustard. Arrange on indi- 
vidual plates on watercress. Garnish with cucumber 
as follows: Pare, cut crosswise in thirds or quarters 
according to size, remove the centers and fill with sauce 
tartare. Served on a bleached lettuce leaf, this garnish 
makes a satisfactory little salad by itself. 

To make the sticks simply cut bread into long, 



104 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

slender, uniform lingers, butter lightly and set in a hot 
oven till a delicate brown. Pile on a plate log cabin 
fashion. Fry, sprinkling them with grated cheese some 
time before browning, and eat with bouillon. 

One cannot always find a pineapple — large, ripe 
and unblemished — suitable to serve in this way. The 
golden-meated juicy variety from Florida is far and away 
the best that comes to our market. Lacking the per- 
fection that you seek, some other dessert can be sub- 
stituted — orange cup, for example, with fresh sponge 
cake. But if you do find it, chill, cut oif the leafy top, 
to be used as a cover, and set it aside. Dig out the pulp, 
taking great care not to puncture the shell, and dis- 
carding the fibrous and tasteless core. Add the shredded 
pulp of another small specimen to replace the waste. 
Sweeten to taste and keep cold till needed. To serve, 
fill the shell, fit on the top and set on a dainty doily on 
a flat china or glass dish. Three butterflies poised on 
the palmlike top are most effective. The hostess may 
remove the cover and its decorations intact to another 
plate and by means of a small ladle, dip the fragrant, 
luscious fruit on to plates containing each a 

Dessert Sandwich — Cut sponge cake into thin 
oblongs or squares. Put between two pieces a slice of 
vanilla ice cream that has been molded in brick form. 
Ornament the top slice of cake with whipped cream 
(sweetened and flavored slightly with cordial) pressed 
through a pastry tube. 

I give also the recipe for 

Orange Cups — Stir over the fire two cups of gran- 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 105 

ulated sugar and one cup of water till dissolved; then let 
boil without stirring until the syrup spins a thread. Add 
one pint of orange juice and the juice of one lemon. 
Scald one cup of cream, stir into beaten yolks of two 
eggs, cool and mix with the syrup. When thoroughly 
chilled add another cup of cream whipped, one half a 
teaspoon of vanilla and touch of yellow color paste. 
Freeze and serve in glasses. 

Salted nuts in small dishes were set at each cover. 
The dates were stuffed with oblong bits of preserved 
ginger — an excellent combination. Perhaps a word or 
two may help those who "never have any luck making 
glaees/' Don't attempt them on a damp day. Divide 
oranges carefully into sections, rejecting all carpels 
which have the slightest break in the thin skin ; let those 
that pass muster stand for several hours to dry. Boil 
the sugar to the point just before the caramel stage and 
watch closely as it becomes straw colored. Eemove to 
back of range; drop in the orange sections one at a 
time, take out quickly with two forks, disturbing the 
syrup as little as possible, and place separately on an 
oiled marble slab or paper. The syrup will bear reheat- 
ing once only. Leave a short stem on Malagas and with 
a pair of pincers take each grape by its handle and dip. 
Work quickly. Glaces are "peculiar critters" and if the 
day before they are needed happens to be fine and dry, 
make them then and keep crisp and fresh under an 
inverted bowl, which should also cover a small piece 
of lime. 

Mix coffee, eggs and water in the usual proportions, 



ioG THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

having the water cold. Set on the range where it will 
heat, but not boil, for half an hour; then add hot, rich 
milk, allowing one enp of milk to every quart of coffee. 
Do not allow to boil. 

A CHICAGO LUNCHEON 

By Linda Hull Larned 

The table was decorated with a big silver bowl of 
Meteor roses, which, as everyone knows, are a beautiful 
crimson. The menu was of the following courses : 

First, Tokay grapes, ice cold; second, cream soup 
with breadsticks. This soup was of clams and oysters 
chopped fine, and tomato juice and pulp mixed with a 
thin cream sauce, then strained and served in cups with 
a spoonful of whipped cream in each. Third, creamed 
scallops and mushrooms. There was an addition of 
minced truffles, and it was served in ramekin dishes 
with slices of hard-boiled egg and bits of parsley as a 
garnish. With this course was a plate of entire wheat 
bread sandwiches. Fourth, grape fruit sherbet, a 
creamy orange ice surrounded with a half frozen syrup 
made of grape fruit juice and sugar. Fifth, chicken 
fillets, rice balls, French beans, jam. 

The chicken breasts were parboiled slightly, then 
browned under the fire and served with a rich brown 
sauce, to which the rice balls were added. The rice balls 
were very tiny but savory, with cheese and salt and lots 
of paprika. They w T ere fried in deep fat. The beans 
were the red kidney variety, and as they were canned 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 107 

they were simply warmed in butter, mineed parsley and 
a few drops of lemon juice. The jam was a relish made 
of rhubarb, strawberries, pineapple, raisins and almonds. 

The sixtli course was salad macedoine. This was 
lettuce, grape fruit, celery, apples and white grapes 
garnished with cream cheese balls flanked by pecan 
nuts. ( )ver this was a French dressing made with grape 
fruit juice instead of vinegar. With this were served 
some tiny sandwiches made of gluten crackers, put 
together with butter and bar-le-duc jam. The seventh 
course was rose ice cream and pasties, a French ice 
cream served in champagne glasses, a spoonful in each, 
over which was poured a deep pink sauce made of syrup, 
whipped cream and rum, colored with cochineal. 

Upon each plate was an American Beauty rose, 
which matched the syrup in the glass. Small crescents 
of puff paste were covered with a meringue upon which 
were sprinkled blanched and browned almonds minced 
fine, and the pasties were then slightly browned in the 
oven. The accessories were salted pecan nuts, popcorn 
and crimson and white peppermints. Of course the 
finish was strong black coifee in the tiniest of cups and 
a thimbleful of creme de menthe for each guest. 



FOR INDEPENDENCE DAY 
By L. A. Browne 

The complaint has often been made by very young 
ladies, and frequently by older young ladies, that the 



108 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

Fourth of July was a day much more enjoyed by boys 
and young men than by the members of their sex. There 
arc ways, however, in which the young lady may both 
enjoy and celebrate the occasion. An Independence day 

party is one of these. 

Once assembled at the home of the hostess, the 
guests may enjoy themselves by any of the customary 
met hods adopted by young ladies upon such occasions. 
They should, however, wear some patriotic emblems, 
such as red, white and blue sashes or ribbons, and a very 
pleasant feature of the occasion would be for each guest 
to come prepared, by request, to give some information 
regarding the women of Revolutionary times. The 
crowning feature of the event should be the lunch. 
The room in which this is served should be well deco- 
rated with, flags and bunting of the national colors, 
while such Revolutionary pictures as George and Martha 
Washington, the battle of Bunker Hill, the Boston tea 
party, Washington crossing the Delaware, the signing of 
the Declaration of Independence, the surrender of Corn- 
wallis, etc., should adorn the walls if they are obtainable. 
The table should be draped about the edge with tri- 
colored bunting and a knot of this or a flag draped about 
each chair. If possible, scenic a well-mounted American 
eagle to place in the center of the table, with a flag 
draped about the base. 

At each plate place a paper or muslin flag for a 
napkin, and upon each plate mount a formidable 
cannon, made by securing two oranges and a banana 
with a long wooden or metal pin. A tiny flag stuck 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 109 

in the lower end of the banana will add to the effect. 
The menu should have at the top a flag, either a real one 
fastened on or one put on with colors. At the bottom 
a drawing of the cracked Liberty bell would be in keep- 
ing with the idea, while at either side attach a genuine 
firecracker. The lunch menu may be either printed or 
written, and should read as follows: 

Patriotic sandwiches 

Ham and tongue, a la Valley Forge 

Star cookies and stripe cake 

Pinwheels Washington pie 

Giant firecrackers 

Cannon Torpedoes 

Iced tea (without tax) 

Pink lemonade, a la July 4 

The patriotic sandwiches should be small, dainty 
sandwiches tied with red, white and blue ribbons. The 
meats, "a la Valley Forge/' would of course be cold. 
Star-shaped frosted cookies and layer cake explains the 
next item. A slice of jelly roll is an excellent imitation 
of a pinwheel. Deep pink strawberry ice cream, made 
in molds with a shred of cocoanut fuse, makes the giant 
firecracker. Put confectionery in small bags or tinfoil 
and over this twist red tissue paper i:i imitation of tor- 
pedoes. The cannon has already been described. The 
Washington pie and iced tea need no comment. Serve a 
straw with the lemonade and in the straw place a tiny 
flag. The napkins and menu cards will make good sou- 
venirs for the guests. 



no THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

A display of fireworks in the evening, superintended 

by sonic male member of the family, together with 
patriotic songs, would he a fitting finale for the occasion, 
and it is safe to assume that such a celebration would 
l)c thoroughly enjoyed by the young ladies. 

The older ones would also find this lunch menu 
suitable, or they could give a dinner party and reception 
or social hop. For the dinner party the menus should 
be decorated like the one already described, and con- 
tain the following. For the United States soup any 
light stock will do. Into this place a quantity of mac- 
aroni letters "IT" and "S." Macaroni now comes 
stamped out in all the letters of the alphabet. Turkey 
is of course our native bird. The giant firecrackers, 
pinwheels, cannon, torpedoes and lemonade have been 
previously described. The menu: 

United States soup 
Red sliced tomatoes White iced cucumbers 
Blue cabbage cold slaw 
Plymouth Rock cod 

Spanish mackerel (done brown) 

New England trout 
Roast sirloin of American beef 

Roast lamb (U S) mint sauce 

Our native bird 

Washington pickles 

Boiled and mashed new potatoes New beets 

Grreen peas Indian corn on the cob 

White bread American cheese Vermont butter 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS in 

Indian pudding Washington pie 

Pinwheels Giant firecrackers 

Cannon Torpedoes 

Tea (without tax) California coffee 

Pink lemonade, a la July 4 

A UNIVERSITY LUNCHEON 
By G. W. 

A Yale luncheon given last Christmastide was a 
brilliant success. The ideas may be utilized for the 
entertainment of students from any college, merely 
changing the colors, Harvard's crimson, for example, 
Iowa's old gold, Chicago's maroon, Texas's white and 
orange, or Dartmouth's green. The invitations read: 

Miss Rachel Wynn 

Miss Frances Sutherland 

Mr. Richard Sutherland 
Yale Luncheon, 1 o'clock, December 27 
Whist from 3 to 6 

415 Ay res Avenue 

The Wynn house is small. There is a cozy reception hall, 
parlor, sitting room and dining roorn on the first floor. 
All the rooms open into each other with wide arches, 
which fit it capitally for entertaining. Our decision 
was to have no flowers, not even a palm, and keep the 
entire house in harmony of coloring. Fortunately for 
our scheme, every room had a quiet gray or bluish paper, 



ii2 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

and in carpets, furniture and hangings there was not a 
touch of color that would clash with the blue of Yale. 
Our first bit of luck was the loan of a huge bundle of 
Yale flags and bunting from the College Men's club. 
A Hag, with a great while "Yale" on it, we stretched 
across one end of the sitting room, another, as immense 
as a campaigning banner, draped the west wall of the 
dining room. The stairs were garlanded with dark blue 
bunting, and all over the house fluttered little class 
flags hearing dates that ran from '80 to '04. We allowed 
bundles of mistletoe tucked cunningly under gas fix- 
tures. Holly was out of the question; it would have 
rooted for Harvard. 

Serving luncheon at 1 was an innovation, but an 
excellent one. When the dishes were cleared away the 
anxiety was over, and the hostess moved about among 
her guests without a thought of a meal to be served at 
the end of the game. We set ten small tables, three 
in the dining room, four in the sitting room, two in the 
parlor and one in the hall. The tables were snowily 
linened, there were doilies in blue and white, and the 
centerpiece on each table was a glass dish filled with 
small bunches of splendid blue and white grapes. There 
was nothing blue to be found in the fruit or flower 
kingdom except these, and the coloring was superb. All 
the disbes we used were handsome old-fasbionod willow 
ware or solid dark blue. 

Blue seems one of the impossible colors to achieve 
in cool<ing or garnishing. Where it could noi be obtained 
we used white. Here is the menu served: 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 113 

Cream of corn soup 

Olives Toasted wafers 

Smelts in potato straw- nests 

Chicken a la Stanley Sweet potato croquettes 

Finger rolls 

Grape fruit and celery salad 

Cheese straws Salted almonds 

Yale ice cream 

Individual angels with Yale icing 

Cafe noir 

This luncheon was prepared entirely by the young 
hostess, her humble right-hand woman, and a colored 
girl in the kitchen. During the serving of the meal wo 
had the aid of a cooking school graduate, who took 
general oversight of everything for one dollar an hour. 
Two young girls were hired to assist in waiting on the 
tables for twenty-five cents an hour. Afterward they 
stayed and helped Tenna wash dishes. Service cost 
exactly three dollars, and it was as perfect as a caterer 
would have charged five dollars for. 

The weather was chill enough to allow of much 
of the luncheon being prepared the day before. The 
vegetable portion of the soup was made and set away to 
be combined skillfully at the last moment by the young 
woman of cooking school knowledge. The almonds were 
salted, the sweet potato croquettes made, egged and 
crumbed, the potatoes pared and left in cold water, the 
cheese straws and little angels made and the finger rolls 
ordered, for at bakeshop prices it is not worth while 



ii 4 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

troubling with rolls at home. Following are two of the 
recipes in our menu. Eemember of course that each 
dish provided for forty people. 

Yale Ice Cream- — A coloring for the ice cream 
threw the entire household into despair. So far as we 
could find, there is no blue coloring paste on the 
market. There is one which produces an adorable 
violet, only violet is not Yale blue. At last we discovered 
that a few tablespoons of juice from canned blueberries 
produced exactly the Yale shade of blue, and added 
quite a pleasant flavor, which could be accentuated by a 
dash of lemon extract. We used two freezers, in one 
making vanilla cream, in the other the Yale mixture. 
The recipe we used called for two quarts of thin cream, 
in which was dissolved one and a half cups of sugar. 
Three tablespoons of vanilla were added to the two 
quarts of white cream and two tablespoons of lemon for 
the blue cream. Add the blueberry juice till the cream 
is quite a dark blue, much bluer than the tint you desire, 
as all colorings freeze out considerably lighter. The 
four quarts of cream were packed into brick molds, a 
layer of blue and another of white, which cut beautifully. 

Individual Angels with Yale Icing — A fine frothy 
mixture of angel cake was baked in small gem pans, and 
when cool iced with a plain frosting colored by the 
blueberry juice, and slightly flavored with lemon. A 
tiny pennant of blue silk with a white Y painted on it 
was fastened on a slender wire, and stuck in the center 
of each cake. 

While the deft waiters cleared the tables to prepare 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 115 

for cards, the company spent fifteen minutes in merry 
chat, interspersed with snatches of Yale songs. The 
cards used for playing were blue and white, the score 
cards bore pretty bits of decoration : the inevitable Yale 
flag, a football man in a blue sweater, a college crew 
pulling hard, or a sketchy reminiscence of Yale's famous 
fence. The lettering was in blue and the tiny pencils 
attached to each card were of the same color. During 
the afternoon punch was served from a splendid Delft 
bowl, and the guests drank from rich blue sherbet cups. 

The prizes were exactly of the sort that Yale men 
and Yale men's girls appreciate, stunning Yale pillows, 
and a handsome desk pad with a spirited decoration in 
water color of a football field, where of course the blues 
were winning. There were blue steins, Yale pins and a 
blue-bound book designed for holding snapshots of 
college life. Remembered even to-day are the booby 
prizes, two Yale brownie jumping jacks, three feet in 
length, who flung themselves into the most astonishing 
attitudes when a string was pulled. 

The confidential part of the story is that twenty 
dollars covered the cost of the entire entertainment. 



IN MEXICAN STYLE 
By O. A. M. 

Tn the following menu all the dishes are such as are 
cooked in the well-to-do families of Mexico and the 
households of the Spanish Californians, but several of 



n6 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

them are almost unknown to the. American epicure who 
has never crossed the Eio Grande. 

The flowers should be in keeping with the menu. 
A great bowl of yucca blossoms, or a cactus plant in full 
bloom, would make a pleasing centerpiece; but the 
flower of all others to choose is the poinsettia, or as the 
Mexicans call it so prettily, Luz de Navidad (the Christ- 
mas light), a native of their wild canyons, and the 
subject of many of their quaint legends. 

For place cards nothing would be more appropriate 
than little sombreros made of gray drawing paper. To 
make these cut out rounds of paper two and one-half 
inches in diameter, then make a little cornucopia two 
inches long for the crown of the hat ; notch slightly the 
mouth of the cornucopia, bend the notches inward and 
gum them to the round, so that the cornucopia will 
stand upright in the center of the round. The som- 
brero is then complete, needing only a hat band of baby 
ribbon (reel). On the upper side of the brim write, in 
gilt ink, the guest's name, and on the under side of the 
brim write the menu. 

MENTI 

Sopa de frijoles Tortillas 

Pescades fritos Mexicano caliente Olives 

Polio asada Enchillados Alcachofada 

Chili reinas Arroz con tomate 

Ensalada de aligador pera 

Atole de pina Ojalda 

Cafe Sucre de leche Fruto 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 117 

Sopa de frijoles is a puree of the dried red beans. 
Soak the beans over night, boil till tender in plenty of 
water, press through a sieve. J find a potato ricer an 
excellent press for the purpose. Eeturn the beans to 
the fire with enough of the water they were boiled in to 
make the amount of soup require' 1 ., season with cayenne 
and salt, and thicken slightly with blended flour; strain, 
and serve with a slice of lemon in each plate. Tortillas 
are the bread of Mexico, and are served not only with 
the soup, but with every course, excepting the dessert. 
The Mexican cook grinds her corn with a nictate fresh 
every clay, but the American will find the fine white corn 
meal of the mills will do very well. Mix the meal with 
a little salt and enough boiling water to make a stiff 
dough, pinch off a lump the size of an English walnut 
and pat it between the palms till it becomes a round 
cake as thin as a wafer and about six inches in diameter. 
Bake on a griddle, turning it over to bake on both sides. 
These should be served hot, and may be made the day 
before using, and heated over when time to serve. 

For pescades fritos, any dainty variety of fish is 
boiled in oil, the oil being very hot before putting in the 
fish. For Mexicano caliente, toast in the wood ashes 
some green peppers and a few red ones (chilis are the 
peppers used), peel the skins from them : treat an equal 
quantity of tomatoes in like manner, mince all finely 
together with a little onion, salt, and vinegar enough 
to moisten; let stand a few days before using. This is a 
nice sauce to use with any dishes with which catsup 
would be suitable! 



n8 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

Polio asada is roasted chicken, as the Mexicans 
roast with a spit before the tire. Broiling would be 
nearer their method than roasting in the oven. 

Encliillados are a dish for an epicure. The Mexi- 
cans take equal quantities of chilis, tomatoes and onions, 
but the American will prefer to use only half as much 
onion, and possibly still less of the chilis, for our 
northern throats would blister if treated to the fiery 
seasoning. These should be roasted in the ashes, then 
peeled, the seeds taken from the peppers, and the whole, 
excepting the pepper seeds, ground to a pulp. To this 
add an equal quantity of finely chopped fresh lean pork, 
and salt to taste. A tortilla is folded around a spoonful 
of the mixture. When all the mixture is wrapped in 
tortillas the little bundles are boiled in tomatoes, a little 
finely chopped raw onion is dusted on top of each, and 
it is ready for serving. 

For alcachofada, trim artichoke buds, taking out 
the chokes, boil till tender in salted water, make a 
sauce of one cup milk, butter the size of a walnut, or 
olive oil two tablespoonfuls, one tablespoonful blended 
flour, and last the beaten yolks of two eggs. Serve a 
spoonful of sauce with each bud. 

Arroz con t ornate is a dish without which no Mexi- 
can meal is complete. It is rice boiled in tomatoes, 
after being well plumped in cold water, and seasoned 
with salt and pepper. 

. For chili r etnas, use the large green sweet peppers, 
roast them in the ashes till they can be easily peeled, 
then peel, split open on one side, take out the seeds, and 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 119 

?iu If the peppers with grated cheese. For six peppers 
take two eggs, beat very light, add one teaspoonful of 
flour, dip the peppers in this hatter, then fry. When 
browned on one side, turn. Serve very hot. Pour over 
them a tomato sauce if wished. 

Ensalada de Aligador Pera — Peel alligator pears, 
cut in thin rings, taking out the stone, serve on lettuce 
with mayonnaise. 

Atole de Pina — Thicken five pints of boiling water 
with cornstarch until the consistency of boiled custard, 
add one small pineapple, grated; also one pound sugar, 
a small stick of cinnamon, and when this has boiled a 
moment, three very well beaten eggs which have been 
mixed with a little of the sugar. Stir a moment, then, 
before the eggs have time to curdle, take from fire, turn 
into individual custard cups, and serve cold. 

Ojaldo, — Into two cupfuls of flour drop the yolk of 
one egg, unbeaten, and a heaping tablespoonful of lard. 
Wet with salted water till a stiff paste is formed, knead 
well, lifting and throwing it upon the board every 
moment till it is a light, smooth dough, full of blisters. 
Roll very thin and cut in rounds. Fry a light brown in 
hot deep lard, and sift powdered sugar over them as 
soon as finished. They are crisp and melt in the mouth 
when well made. 

Sucre de Leche — Boil three cups granulated sugar 
with one cup sweet milk, stir to prevent burning; as 
soon as it will string from the spoon take from fire, add 
a little vanilla and pour into buttered pans; cut in 
cubes. 



THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



A CIRCUS LUNCHEON 
By Alice Chittenden 

The decorations at this unique luncheon carried 
out as far as possible the idea of a circus. Streamers of 
white cambric, alternated with wide red ribbons, were 
festooned from the center of the ceiling in tentlike 
fashion, thus apparently converting the whole room into 
a huge circus tent. From the center of this were sus- 
pended two paper hoops with dolls dressed like trapeze 
performers, which were wired to the ceiling as if just 
about to jump through them. The mural decorations 
consisted of masks, horns and whips tied with red rib- 
bons. There were ten tables, each of which represented 
a sideshow at a circus. Some tables were oblong, others 
round, but the guests were seated on one side only and 
facing the center. 

The floral decorations consisted of poinsettias. To 
each of the chairs was wired one of these showy blossoms 
with its beautiful dark green foliage. They were also 
interspersed among the other decorations on the tables, 
the snowy cloth making an effective background. 

The first table, which was oblong, held a circus 
procession of animals winding in long spiral ovals its 
whole length. Only the ingenious young decorators 
know how many Noah's arks of goodly size (for these 
were no Lilliputian toys) must have been devastated to 
furnish the four-footed creatures, to say nothing of 
the army of dolls required as performers. The chariots 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 



were cut from pasteboard and were entwined with 
flowers. 

The second table, a small round one, represented 
a cannibal island in the Pacific, consisting of a circle of 
sand and black dolls in gaudy, but scanty, costume. On 
the third table the chariot races were represented with 
flower-trimmed chariots and pretty doll drivers who 
handled the bright ribbons with wonderful skill. The 
fourth was a small round table, in the center of which 
a boy doll held the popcorn and peanut concession. On 
the fifth, trained dogs several inches in hight but of 
fascinating exterior, were performing on ladders and 
beating drums under the guidance of a perfectly 
appointed ringmaster. 

Indian snake charmers performed with realistic 
paper snakes on the sixth. The seventh held a merry- 
go-round, while at the eighth dainty maidens danced 
about a maypole. At the ninth, the hoop performance 
of the ceiling was repeated on a smaller scale, while at 
the tenth a company of rough riders held sway. 

Just before the end of the dinner the beautiful little 
daughter of the hostess passed around confetti among 
the guests, showering it upon the guest of honor. Each 
guest carried away one of the toys as a souvenir, which 
still left a goodly number behind. 

There are suggestions in this dinner which may 
enable housekeepers to devise attractive feasts on a 
smaller scale. 



THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



A CORN LUNCHEON 
By Eleanor M. Lucas 

The table was covered with white damask, and for a 
centerpiece ears of corn formed an elongated enclosure. 
Perfect ears had been selected and the pale green husks 
had been drawn back and made to lie flat like the sepals 
of a flower, and from them rose the pearly ears of corn, 
standing upright, partly veiled in filmy corn silk. 
Arranged within and overrunning this enclosure were 
bright blue cornflowers and asparagus ferns. Both are 
so enduring that no water was required, so the greens 
and flowers were arranged in a loose mass, the greens 
trailing down the table toward either end, and, wherever 
they encountered a candlestick, wreathing themselves 
about it. The candlesticks stood in a row down the 
center of the table, two on each end, and we're made from 
the long round boxes in which electric light mantles 
come, covered with corn husks ; a drop of glue in the top 
of these made the blue candles secure. Little canoes, 
made of cardboard covered with corn husks, held the 
salted almonds and salted popped corn. 

At each place was a wonderful corn-husk doll, bear- 
ing an armful of cornflowers, tied with pale creamy 
ribbons. On one end of the ribbon bow was written 
the guest's name and on the other the date. The 
menu was: 

Cream of corn soup 
Mock oysters Sliced cucumbers 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 123 

Lamb chops Corn timbales 

Mousseline sauce 

Hot corn meal gems 

Green pea and lettuce mayonnaise in corn-husk baskets 

Cream cheese and olive sandwiches 

Apricot sherbet in green jelly cups 

Sponge cakes Corn crisps 

Coffee 

A few of the dishes are given in detail : 

Mock Oysters — To a cup of grated corn pulp, add a 
teaspoon of salt, a teaspoon of paprika and three well 
beaten eggs. Fry in butter, in small spoonfuls, dish on 
a napkin covered plate, garnish with jmrsley and lemon 
and serve with cucumbers. 

Broil the chops and garnish with cress. 

Corn Tim dales — To one cup of grated corn pulp 
add one cup of milk, a teaspoon each of chopped parsley 
and onion juice, one soda cracker rolled fine and a 
teaspoon of salt. Beat two eggs until light, add to the 
other ingredients. Pour into buttered timbale molds, 
cook in a slow oven, the molds standing in a pan of hot 
water, until the centers are firm. Invert on a pretty 
dish, garnish with parsley and pour over each timbale 
a spoonful of sauce. 

Mousseline Sauce — Beat a tablespoon of butter to 
a cream ; add the yolks of three eggs, one at a time, then 
add three tablespoons of lemon juice, half a teaspoon 
of salt and a dash of cayenne. Cook over hot water until 
the sauce thickens, then add another tablespoon of 



124 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

butter and half a cup of sweet cream. When the sauce 
is hot, serve. It should be quite thick and frothy. 

Hot Com Meal Gems — Cream a tablespoon of 
butter and a tablespoon of sugar, add the yolks of two 
eggs and mix well. Place in the flour sifter one and a 
half cups each of white flour and corn meal, a teaspoon 
of salt and two teaspoons of baking powder. Add this 
gradually to the egg mixture with a cup and a half of 
sweet milk. Fold in lightly the stiffly-beaten whites of 
the eggs and pour into gem pans. Bake thirty minutes 
in a hot oven. This amount will make twenty-four 
small gems. 

The timbales can be cooked some time in advance 
and reheated by standing in hot water, as the oven will 
be required for the gems. 

Mayonnaise of Peas — Mix two cups of cooked 
chilled green peas with half a cup of thick mayonnaise. 
Make little square or oblong baskets of cardboard, cover 
with corn husks, a strip of cardboard covered with the 
husk serving as a handle. Fasten a few blue corn- 
flowers to one side and to the handle. Line with waxed 
paper, then with pale green lettuce leaves, allowing the 
leaves to come up above the sides. Fill with mayonnaise 
of peas, placing a spoonful of mayonnaise on top. This 
forms a pretty color effect. 

Cheese and Olive Sandwiches — Beat the cream 
cheese until soft ; to one small roll add six stoned olives 
chopped fine and a dash of cayenne. Spread on thin 
slices of buttered white bread and press together. Cut 
in small pieces and pile on a pretty lace paper doily. 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 125 

Apricot Sherbet in Jelly Cups — Mix one pint of 
apricot pulp, the juice of two oranges and one lemon, 
the grated rind of the lemon and one pint of syrup 
(made by cooking for ten minutes two cups of sugar and 
one cup of water). Freeze in the usual way. 

For the jelly cups, make a lemon jelly by softening 
one ounce of gelatine in one-third of a cup of cold water, 
add a pint of boiling water, stir until dissolved. Add 
a cup of sugar, and when cool the grated rind of a lemon, 
and the juice of four. Stir in enough spinach green to 
give a pretty green tint. Mold in little border molds or 
patent charlotte russe molds. When firm turn out and 
fill the hollow centers with the sherbet, which may be 
topped with a spoonful of whipped cream or sprinkled 
with a teaspoon of candied mint leaves. 

Com Crisps — Pop some corn and place in a large 
kettle. Boil one cup of molasses, one cup of sugar and 
half a cup of vinegar until it crisps when dropped into 
cold water. Pour this over two quarts of corn, meas- 
ured after popping. Stir well with a long-handled 
spoon. When mixed pour into a shallow baking pan 
that has been lined with waxed paper. Press it down 
firmly, lay a piece of waxed paper on top and over this 
a board, smaller than the top of pan, so it will fit upon 
the mixture. On this place two or three flatirons. The 
next day remove the weight, board and paper, turn onto 
a clean board, remove paper from bottom and with a 
very sharp knife cut into slices. Lay these to dry, then 
wrap in waxed paper, or pile as they are on a pretty 
green plate. 



126 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



EVE'S LUNCHEON 
By Mary Dawson 

Twenty-five Philadelphia girls were completely 
mystified by invitations bidding them to a "luncheon 
a l'Eve." It proved to be one of the most unique 
affairs of the season, everything being served as Eve 
would have offered it in Eden, that is without knife, 
fork or spoon. An entire menu which could be daintily 
conveyed to the mouth with the hands would have 
sounded like an utter impossibility until our hostess 
showed us the way to do it. Afterward, like Columbus' 
egg, it was the simplest thing in the world. Oysters 
were out of season, and out of the question, too, but 
fruit was seasonable and dainty to handle, accordingly 
the first course was fruit. Each plate contained a small 
bunch of grapes, a couple of ripe plums, portions of 
bananas having the skin curled down to protect the 
fingers, and various other tidbits that were certain not 
to prove too juicy. The soup, too, was easy when one 
knew how. It came to table in small china cups with 
handles. The toast squares that accompanied this 
course were chosen because less likely to crumble than 
bread. 

One of the courses was meat patties in little fluted 
cases of pastry. These were so tiny and so crisp that 
they could be eaten without forks. The lamb chops 
that followed were also very small. They were fitted 
out with white curled papers at the bone end' so that not 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 127 

a finger was soiled in handling them. Saratoga chips, 
lettuce, cress and corn on the cob were the green 
things of the feast. We curled the white lettuce leaves 
into little bunches, as the French epicures do, and 
dipped them into a creamy mayonnaise. The butter 
problem was disposed of by bread and butter sandwiches 
cut very thin and rolled, and by hot wheat muffins split 
and buttered before being brought to the table. For 
dessert we had a frappe served in cups with handles. 
wee tartlets filled with compote of fresh fruit, cakes, 
candies, coffee, salted nuts and other good things. 



A CHINESE LUNCHEON 

Which Can Be Followed or Adapted by College Girls and Other Girls 

Chrysanthemums, cherry blossoms, chopsticks, chow 
ming, chop suey aud everything Chinese was the order 
at a charming luncheon given by a young woman. She 
did not plan the table nor prepare the luncheon herself; 
she engaged the chef of a Chinese restaurant and his 
corps of waiters to carry out the affair, while she herself, 
having sojourned in China and owning a fine collection 
of Chinese curiosities, overlooked the picturesque pari 
of the entertainment and made use of every possibility. 
The hostess waited to receive in a Chinese coat of tawny 
silk with splendid embroideries. The dining room was 
a complete transformation scene. From Chinese lan- 
terns was shed a subdued light. The room was hung 
with a frieze of painted silk decorated with Chinese 



128 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

landscapes where delicate-footed Chinese ladies were 
seen picking their way through a world which seemed 
all moonshine. There were showers of chrysanthemums 
over yards and yards of the strange moonshiny silk on 
which a Chinese artist loves to trail his dreamy fancies. 
In odd contrast to the moonshine were the red and 
yellow Chinese flags and splendid splashes of oriental 
coloring. It glowed in massive urns and vases, in richly 
decorated jars and magnificent screens. The mantel 
was draped with Chinese silk and yards of rich embroid- 
eries trailed over the chair backs. 

The table as set for a Chinese luncheon was perhaps 
the most interesting thing in the room. It was shad- 
owed by an enormous Japanese umbrella, around which 
hung lanterns. The table was a bare mahogany, but 
drifted everywhere among the dishes were tiny white 
Chinese lilies, not unlike orchids and as fragrant as 
freesias. There was no grouping of dishes such as 
American taste demands. The small plates of sweet- 
meats and nuts, which take the place of our olives and 
relishes, were arranged together in geometrical forms, 
in open squares and stiff triangles. Each plate held a 
certain number of sweetmeats, pomegranates or nuts, 
three, five, seven or nine, set also in geometrical prim- 
ness. At each cover was one pair of chopsticks, a droll 
china ladle, two teacups, a tiny dish of soy and a napkin, 
which was changed at each of the eleven courses. It 
was not easy at first to eat soup from a ladle or meat 
from a pair of chopsticks, but before the end of the 
luncheon each guest was an expert in the art and would 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 129 

not have quailed at the prospect of appearing at a Chi- 
nese legation luncheon. 

The first thing served was gue sine tea, in bits of 
tiny, dragon-decorated china with handles like our 
bouillon cups. After the tea came Chinese preserves, 
candied fruits and sweetmeats, although of indescribable 
flavor. Cam ghet, ton gung, bor low and lichee nuts 
were the relishes of most intelligible name. Bor low 
gay, famous bird's nest soup, followed the sweetmeats. 
It was served with a delicate garnishing of shredded 
chicken and eaten from china ladles. Again came 
chicken, fried and boneless, with fresh mushrooms and 
water nuts as an accompaniment. The piece de resist- 
ance of the feast was roasted duck, buried in a snowy 
mound of chrysanthemum petals. Chop suey was the 
next course; then came yocklumine, a delicious combi- 
nation of fish, tender bamboo sprouts, shredded ham, 
mushrooms and water nuts. One triumphant dish, on 
which a Chinese cook prides himself as sure to please 
the "Melican," is lobster omelet, and on this occasion 
the chef was besieged for the recipe. A Chinese chef, 
however, rarely condescends to bestow such a favor; he 
looks delightfully blank, forgets his English utterly and 
smiles a benign oriental smile. Rice cooked Chinese 
fashion is scarcely recognizable as the same thing we 
often find in a moist mush on our tables. At such a 
least as the one described, rice never appears; it would 
be scorned as too plebeian ; but by the entreaty of the 
hostess, it followed the omelet. Then came chow ming, 
a fried noodle with meat, which was the last substantial 



130 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

course. The dessert was China cakes, delicious though 
of strange seasoning, and Chinese toasted almonds. 

The ladies adjourned with the clearing away of 
dessert to a tea bench in a corner of the dining room, 
a table surrounded by a bench at which the last tea 
drinking of a meal is always held in a Chinese home. 
Around the bare board the ladies drank soung soe tea. 

All the circumstance and form attendant on a meal 
eaten chopstiek fashion was carried out during the 
luncheon. The hostess in the apparel of a Chinese lady 
acted as a real Chinese dame would have done in her 
place. With the appearance of a new course on the 
table, she praised each dish in the most extravagant 
fashion. The guests agreed, with a lavishiness of flat- 
tery truly oriental. The meal was eaten with thin blue 
clouds of delicate incense wreathing themselves about 
the room. It was burned, as it always is at a Chinese 
feast, in a splendid brass bowl. There were no individual 
finger bowls. When the party rose from the table they 
followed their hostess to a great china bowl on a teak- 
wood table set against a magnificent screen. It held 
perfumed water, into which each lady dipped her fingers. 

The following out of such a luncheon as this by a 
hostess who could not engage a Chinese chef and a corps 
of silk gowned waiters, is not an impossibility. It would 
require something of originality, a faculty for adapting 
ideas, not a little research of Chinese customs and dishes, 
and a tactful choice of one's guests, for half the success 
of an atfair of this sort would depend on the bright, 
intelligent women invited to participate. 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 131 



EASTER LUNCHEONS 

A pleasing feature of all Eastertide entertainments 
is the profuse use of flowers and decorations of green, 
which suggest the spring. Of the almost innumerable 
functions which can be given, the three following are 
suggested : 

The breakfast is the simplest form, and differs 
from the luncheon only in that the hour is earlier, usually 
12 o'clock; and the menu is less elaborate. Both the 
breakfast and luncheon are well adapted to a dozen or 
fewer guests. A basket filled with primroses of the 
various delicate colors tied with a ribbon of pale green 
makes a beautiful and springlike centerpiece. The 
menu should contain as many fresh fruits and vegetables 
as possible, and the whole affair should be as expressive 
of the spring as it can be made. 

BREAKFAST MENU 

Grape fruit and Malaga grapes 

Puree of spinach 

Bread sticks 

Lobster cutlets 

Cucumber jelly Rolls 

Sweetbread fillets, maitre d'hotel sauce 

Potato roses Asparagus tips 

Tomato aspic and celery salad 

Sandwiches Camembert cheese Olives 

Toasted water biscuit 

Coffee Salted nuts Candies 



132 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

The combination of grape fruit and Malaga grapes 
is delicious. The grape fruit is cut in half and prepared 
as usual, only that the grapes, skinned and seeded, are 
mixed with it. A branclied cherry is placed on top. 
These are prettier served on maidenhair ferns than 
on doilies. 

The puree of spinach is a delicate green, served 
with a little whipped cream on top. but not enough 
entirely to cover it. The lobster cutlets may be gar- 
nished with parsley, and the cucumber jelly made a 
little greener with leaf green. The cucumber jelly is 
served in individual forms with a few pieces of the 
cucumber in the top. The asparagus tips are served 
with drawn butter sauce and the potato roses are made 
with a pastry bag. The tomato aspic is made in a ring 
mold and the center is filled with celery salad mayon- 
naise. This makes a pretty bit of color, as well as being 
crisp and refreshing. Lettuce sandwiches are a good 
combination with this salad. The omission of a sweet 
simplifies the breakfast. The Camembert cheese served 
with hot toasted water biscuit is followed by the demi- 
tasse of coffee. 

The same number of people may be more elabo- 
rately entertained at a luncheon. Too many flowers 
cannot be used to make the occasion attractive, but the 
simplest table decorations are always the prettiest. A 
low centerpiece is the best form. Baskets, tied with 
large bows of ribbon, are very much used, but a founda- 
tion of asparagus or maidenhair ferns or galax leaves is 
very effective with any of the spring flowers ; the delicate 



134 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

pink tulips make a beautiful centerpiece with the ferns. 
A variety of flowers may be used by placing at each 
plate a bunch of a different kind, as lilacs, jonquils, 
narcissus, lilies of the valley, sweet peas, California 
violets, crocus, hyacinths and mignonette; or they may 
be tied to the backs of the chairs with pale pink ribbons. 
This makes the dining room look like a mass of flowers 
as the guests enter. A simple and individual place card 
has only one's crest or monogram done in gold. 

LUNCHEON MENU 

Strawberries on green leaves 
Cold bouillon, crouton sticks 

Cold lobster, mayonnaise 

Cheese souffle in green peppers 

Sandwiches 

Beef mignons broiled, mushroom sauce 

Potato timbales Peas 

Garcia salad Cheese crackers 

Ice cream fruit forms on maidenhair ferns 

Glace cakes 

Marrons Fig paste Salted nuts 

Coffee 

If strawberries are used, five good sized ones are 
enough for each person, served on the green leaves. o r 
if unattainable, on ferns, with powdered sugar on the 
plate in small paper cases. Another fruit or fruit salad 
can be substituted if the berries are too expensive or 
not to be had. 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 135 

The crouton sticks served with the cold bouillon are 
made as follows : Cut bread into one-fourth-ineh slices, 
remove crusts, spread slightly with butter on both sides, 
cut into strips one-fourth inch wide, bake until light 
brown. If the bouillon will not become firm enough of 
itself, a little pulverized gelatine can be used ; it is just 
as delicate this way. One-half of a small cold boiled 
lobster served with a very heavy mayonnaise is the fish 
course. The entree may be the cheese souffle baked 
in green peppers, or an egg course is always in 
place here. 

To make the layers, cut several slices of brown and 
white bread one-fourth inch, butter each, then put five 
together, alternating them. Cut down in slices one- 
fourth inch thick. This gives a sandwich of three brown 
and two white strips. The beef mignons are tender- 
loins cut three-fourths inch thick. If these are not to 
be had, substitute fillet of beef. Fresh mushrooms 
would add very much to this course, but they are beyond 
the average purse. 

Garcia Salad — Cut celery, apples, and fresh toma- 
toes in thin strips about two inches long, serve on lettuce 
leaves with French dressing. A slice of truffle on the 
top adds both to the appearance and flavor. 

Serve the crackers hot with melted cheese on top. 
Nothing in ices is prettier than the beautifully colored 
fruit forms served on maidenhair ferns in a large silver 
dish. Small squares of homemade cakes can be sub- 
stituted for the glace cakes if desired. The coffee is 
served in the drawing room. 



136 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

The third form of entertainment is a buffet lunch- 
eon at which from twenty-five to one hundred and fifty 
guests can be entertained. It is more elaborate than a 
reception and less general. The guests are all invited 
for the same hour, usually 2 o'clock. The luncheon can 
be served in three ways. The guests may fill the dining 
room and be served as at a reception; or by having 
chairs enough to seat all the guests at one time scattered 
about through the various rooms. In this case a pretty 
feature is to have a small table set (with cloth or doilies, 
bonbons, etc.) in the center of each room with one or 
two matrons to pour the coffee and chocolate. Each 
table can have a different color in flowers and candles, 
to correspond with those of the room. Or, with a 
limited number of guests, small tables, each seating 
four or six, can be set out through all the rooms. Four 
courses are the usual number, though, more may be 
served when all are seated at tables, the form 
being bouillon, fish, croquettes, salad and sandwiches 
and a sweet ; also coffee and chocolate. The fish course 
may be omitted and lobster Xewburg be served with the 
croquette, the salad served as a separate course. If the 
guests are few enough in number to be served at small 
tables, and a more elaborate menu is desired, the follow- 
ing can be used: Caviar, bouillon, fish, croquettes and 
peas, salad and a sweet, coffee, chocolate. 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 



137 



TEN-CENT LUNCHEONS 
By C. A. L. 



A number of good and enthusiastic housekeepers, 
realizing how far from ideal the present methods of 




OF GREEN BURLAP, WITH CHINESE COINS 

living are, how unrefreshing and how conventional, 
''planned a plan/* 7 namely, a scheme for serving practi- 



i 3 8 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

cable luncheons at ten cents a plate. In order to have 
some fun out of their experiments, they planned to 
share the luncheons, each one in turn acting as both 
cook and hostess to the other eleven. 

The third of these object lessons was given recently. 
The table, set for twelve in a room where gay lights 
were substituted for sunlight, was polished so highly 
that all the ware and decorations were reflected in its 
mahogany depths. Fruits and vegetables in season 
made a decoration which was rich and harmonious in 
coloring. The hostess, too busy with her menu to 
receive her guests, turned that pleasure over to a friend, 
and when she appeared at table, it was in "cookie's" 
garb of starchy white and a captivating baker's cap. 

The menu for the luncheon was done on green 
burlap ornamented with ten pennies. On one side the 
simple dishes were enumerated in French phraseology. 
On the reverse side appeared the voucher for the cost 
of the materials which went into the least — everything — - 
bread, butter, potatoes, crackers, etc. Translated, the 
appetizing menu read : 

Julienne soup in cups 

Hot French bread Butter balls 

Fish au gratin with potatoes in their jackets 

Beans and lettuce salad 

Rabbit stew 

Piece de resistance 
Timbales of spinach and small peas 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 139 

Dessert 

Strawberry cakes with charlotte nisse 

Wafers California cheese 

Black coifee 

Bars d'oeuvre 
Olives 

Chef d'oeuvre 
Surprise salad for the refreshment of the spirit 

It was over the cook's "work of art" that the com- 
pany lingered and made merry. It was a tempting dish 
of salad made of realistic green-yellow paper leaves 
within which was hidden the following guessing game: 

1. A large European city and green. 2. Green 
and a dairy product. 3. Green and a portion of the 
human anatomy. 4. Green and a musical instrument. 
5. Green and a reptile. 6. Green and a dwelling. ]'. 
A synonym for always and green. 8. Green and a 
common name for material. 9. Green and a portion 
of a house. 10. Green, an elevation of land and a part 
of the United States. 11. Green and part of the 
earth's surface. 

The key to the game may be passed by, if the 
reader wishes to guess the blanks himself. These are 
the answers: 1, Paris green; 2, green cheese; 3, green- 
back: 4. greenhorn; 5, green turtle: 6, greenhouse; 7, 
evergreen ; 8, green goods ; 9, greenroom ; 1 0, Green 
Mountain state; 11, Greenland. The first prize was a 



i 4 o THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 




THE HOSTESS OF THE TEN-CENT LUNCHEON 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 141 

lettuce leaf plate of majolica, the consolation, a head 
of lettuce. 

The two luncheon? which were given previous to 
this one would be found equally original and interesting 
and were also mosl successful, yet not one hostess but 
will tell you that it is not at all the impossible which 
she is attempting, even though she must weigh and 
measure and even cut that she may accomplish, the 
desired end. And besides the fact of having sjiven and 
received much simple pleasure, the hostesses of the ten- 
cent luncheons have found that buying with so much 
thought and care brings with it the knowledge of many 
unsuspected possibilities in the household economy. 

A MAY TIME LUNCHEON 
By Marjorie March 

In giving a luncheon two things are of prime 
importance: daintiness of service, congeniality of guests. 
The latter requirement is, of course, true at any enter- 
tainment, but more especially at a formal luncheon 
or dinner, where the life of success must depend upon 
conversation. As we have the wealth of May's bounty 
at bur command let us choose either apple blooms, dog- 
wood or the wild azalea as the floral decoration, and as 
fashion has given us our choice of serving luncheon 
either at one central table or at several little ones, 
let us by all means choose the small tables. These 
should be covered with small white cloths. A vase of 
flowers in the center of each, say, shall we, of apple 



i 4 2 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

blossoms. The china, if possible, should be pink and 
white in such a case, and everything that can be pink 
should lend its support to the color scheme. In the 
center of the room place a table from which the wait- 
resses serve the accessories of the luncheon. Those 
things such as cakes, candies, fruits, etc., which are 
ornamental as Well as useful, can be made beautiful 
for the eye to delight in. An enormous bushel basket, 
given a rough coat of white enamel paint and ti< j d 
about with one or two bands of pink ribbon four or 
five inches in width — a big bow with flying ends at the 
side where it is tied — should stand in the center. In 
this basket some vessel, which of course is entirely 
concealed, should hold a generous supply of water to 
give life and freshness to the huge bouquet of pink 
and white apple blossoms which is the burden the 
basket is to bear. Trailing over the table cover in 
careless, wandering style, snrilax should trace its course, 
falling over the edge of the table and caught here and 
there by little butterfly-like bows of pink ribbon. Silver 
bonbon dishes set here and there amid the smilax should 
hold pink candies, etc. The vases of apple blossoms 
on the smaller tables can have their bouquets tied with 
pink ribbon if desired, but ibis is not necessary. 

The menu might be as follows : Grape fruit served 
with sherry and candied cherries ; creamed sweetbreads 
in pink paper cases; chicken croquettes, Saratoga chips 
and cranberry jelly sandwiches; egg salad, served on 
lettuce leaves, the yolks of the eggs being colored pink ; 
pink ices and fancy cakes; fruits and candy. 



LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 143 



A CURIOSITY TEA 

By Mary Dawson 

My first acquaintance with this amusing little 
entertainment was made about two weeks ago. It proved 
to be exceedingly good fun. The invitations, which were 
written on note paper odd in shape and color, had a 
postscript which read : "Please come bringing a curiosity 
with you." At first I thought I should merely take the 
invitation note sheet, for that seemed to me to be quite 
curiosity enough. But on thinking it over I left the 
note at home and took as my contribution a "freak"' 
photograph, the result of peculiar atmospheric condi- 
tions. Each "invitee" came bringing some curiosity, as 
the notes requested. The hostess as she greeted each 
arrival requested him or her not to reveal the secret of 
the curiosity brought to other players; that is, what it 
was or how formed. The curiosities as they came were 
arranged upon a large table. A card with a number 
was attached to each exhibit. They made an odd looking 
collection, in which heirlooms, botanical freaks, eccen- 
tricities from India and China, et cetera, figured. When 
all the guests had arrived we were given pencils and note 
books and asked to write the nature and history of each 
object as nearly as we could guess them. Everyone 
enjoyed the nonsense of this guessing, especially as 
nobody was permitted to help any other contestant. The 
hostess had in hand two odd little articles which were 
found in a foreign shop in New York as prizes. These 



144 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 




LUNCHEONS AND TEAS 145 

were awarded for the first and second best list of 
answers. A table was arranged as for an ordinary tea 
in the dining room. When the guessing was over we 
were duly refreshed with salads and sandwiches, ice 
cream, cake, coffee and the like. 



THE SPINSTER'S TEA 

By T. C. C. 

A bevy of girls of our town, with the aid of an 
older head, planned a very enjoyable evening. The 
invitations were headed with a clever pen and ink sketch 
of a cat, the "spinster's solace." We invited the guests 
to come at 3 o'clock in the afternoon and to appear in 
the costume of the traditional spinster of "ye olden 
time." The majority of the girls wore corkscrew curls 
and all of them old-time gowns. They carried reticules 
and quaint bead bags containing sprigs of fennel, sweet 
flagroot and peppermint drops. Each one told a story 
of her courtship and why her lover was rejected. The 
guest telling the best story, received as a prize a fine 
picture of a cat. After that we had a guessing match, 
the contestant giving the greatesj Dumber of correct 
answers to a series of cat questions being awarded the 
prize — a black ca« pin cushion. The questions and 
answers were as follows: Library cat, catalog; aspiring 
eat, catamount; tree cat, catalpa; near relation, catkin; 
water cat. cataract; dangerous cat, catastrophe; barber 
cat, polecat; spicy cat, catsup; cat's favorite plant. 



146 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

catnip ; musical cat, catgut. We had photographs taken 
at the conclusion of the tea. This was served at 5 
o'clock. The table was a long, old-fashioned one of 
mahogany, and all the quaint china and glassware 
obtainable was used on it. The menu included old- 
fashioned viands and preserves, cookies, hot biscuit, cold 
chicken, rich fruit cake, gold and silver cake, and other 
old-time varieties. Daguerreotypes, miniatures and 
\':\(\c(\ photographs of relatives were brought by most of 
the "spinsters," and there was lots of fun inspecting 
them. After the tea we sang Auld Lang Syne and 
other ballads of "ye olden time/ 1 ' 

A SOFA PILLOW TEA 

A sewing circle for young girls realized one hun- 
dred dollars for a charitable object by a novel enter- 
tain me at which they christened a sofa pillow tea. The 
first twenty-five meetings of the circle had been devoted 
to the production of sofa pillows only, with a result 
of a hundred smart cushions. The invitations for the 
tea had the words ''pillow sale" written in the lower 
left-hand corner, a hint for the charitably inclined to 
bring their purses. A little reception alcove on one 
side of the hall had been fitted up for displaying the 
cushions, which were arranged upon a couple of large 
tables. Each had a neat ticket giving materials used 
and price. After greeting the hostess and meeting 
friends the guests wandered through to the cushion 
room. Refreshments were served in the dining room. 






PARTIES FOR CHILDREN 



PARTIES FOR CHILDREN 

A HAPPY CHRISTENING 

By Leila Lyon Topping 

OlSTE sunshiny spring day the little autocrat came 
into his own — silently, gravely, with a dignity 
befitting a ruler of many hearts, and after that his 
serene majesty was known as Richard the Second. Some 
of the guests who were present that day have never 
forgotten the little group in the vine-hung bay window 
of the pretty drawing room. The pale, slant rays of 
the setting sun fell upon the rector's silvery locks, 
touched the earnest face of the father, and Vested halo- 
wise above the pure face of the young mother, down 
bent upon the lovely wondering babe in her arms. 

There was a charming simplicity about it all: the 
baby's gown, exquisitely plain, but of a gossamer sheer- 
ness, the mother herself in a severely simple white frock, 
whose chastely flowing lines were a fit setting for the 
gracious. Madonna-like curves of its wearer. A small 
Flemish oak table, covered with a square of point lace, 
held the baptismal bowl of heavy antique silver, the 
party stood on a white fur rug, and there was a white 
satin kneeling pillow. Glass bowls of white hyacinths 
and roses were scattered about the room, and there wore 
plenty of candles, but these were not lighted until after 
the ceremony. 



152 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

When the guests had paid obeisance to the little 
king-, and lie had departed to the upper regions, a 
simple tea was informally served in the pretty dining 
room. On the way thither, everyone dropped in at the 
library to see the gifts, which were attractively dis- 
played upon a table eovered with a white satin spread 
embroidered with flying storks in bine. A many- 
branching silver candelabrum in the center shed a soft 
glow upon the dainty gifts, which were of every 
conceivable sort. 

The tea table looked very attractive and the decora- 
tions were especially suggestive and appropriate. A 
silver cradle filled with hyacinths and lilies of the valley 
rested on a square of point lace over white satin. This 
was bordered with small white paper moccasins, each 
one holding a growing fern of some dwarf variety and 
a tiny white candle ; there were eight on a side and they 
made a brave showing when lighted. Two pretty girls 
presided over the punch bowl and samovar at opposite 
sides of the table, and several others helped to serve 
the guests, no servants appearing. From the steaming 
samovar came delicious tea served in tall glasses, and 
the punch bowl held a fragrant fruit punch, the base 
of which was lemonade, from which shredded pineapple, 
orange and banana had been strained, with Maraschino 
cherries added. 

There were molds of jellied chicken, with salad 
sandwiches, rolled and tied with white ribbons, and 
there were also sweet sandwiches of various sorts. These 
were cut heart shaped and filled, some with peach or 



PARTIES FOR CHILDREN 153 

orange marmalade, chopped pineapple and cream cheese^ 
and still others were made of graham bread spread with 
raisins and chopped English walnuts. 






GIFTS FOR THE BABY 



A pleasing novelty were the ice cream sandwiches. 
The little cakes and bonbons were all white and green, 



154 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

and there were pistache nuts sprinkled among the 
salted pecans, with several dishes of crystallized fruits, 
pineapple, orange and angelica. Everything was pre- 
pared at home and was dainty and successful to a 
degree of perfection. The salad sandwiches, which were 
especially delectable, were made of chicken, pounded to 
a paste and mixed with a green mayonnaise, then spread 
between crisp lettuce leaves, and all the sweet fillings 
were bound together with whipped cream. 

The ice cream sandwiches are delightful and easily 
made, provided that the cream — in bricks, of course — 
be very firm and cut upon a marble slab with a cake 
cutter. Pineapple cream was used between champagne 
wafers, and pistache with macaroons, on this occasion, 
the color scheme being consistently carried out in every 
detail. 

A PAPER PARTY 

By Virginia Van De Water 

The invitations for this party should be issued long 
enough beforehand for the parents of the children to 
prepare for them costumes of tissue paper. This will 
not be found so difficult as it sounds. Any woman 
who is deft with her fingers can make such a costume 
for her small boy or girl. If possible, let her visit one 
of the fashion plate shops where are displayed the latest 
models of gowns done in tissue paper, and she will soon 
see what really pretty effects can be produced. The 
mother of each guest may send word to the hostess 



PARTIES FOR CHILDREN 155 

what color her costume will be and the hostess will then 
get a fancy paper cap to match eacli dress and suit. 

The parlors and hall and dining room can be deco- 
rated with Chinese lanterns and tissue paper flowers 
and streamers. Over the dining table may be hung a 
huge paper umbrella oi' the Japanese variety and from 
the tip of each rib oi" this is suspended a paper bag 
containing some trifle such as a tiny Chinese doll, or a 
Chinese pig, or any one of the many favors that can 
he bought at an oriental shop. The table is spread 
with a white cloth, and lighted by candles with colored 
paper shades. Refreshments are served in papier mache 
plates. Japanese paper napkins are at each phice. 

When the little ones are assembled all are told to 
hunt for the caps that match their costume. These 
caps are hidden about the rooms, and each child is 
instructed not to touch any cap except one that is of 
the same color as his clothes. This gives rise to a great 
deal of merriment, for the boy or girl who carelessly 
or rashly puts the tip of a finger on a cap of any hue 
save the one belonging to him or her is required to pay 
a forfeit, and after the head coverings are all found 
a game of forfeit follows. 

Then provide each child with a pair of scissors, a 
pencil, and a sheet of paper. Each names some animal 
he or she will first draw, then cut out. The one making 
the best picture wins a prize, the one making the funniest 
receives a booby prize. The first prize for the girls may 
be a pretty paper doll with her wardrobe, that can be 
put on and off. The first prize for the boys is a hand- 



156 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

some paper-covered book. The booby prize for the girls 
can be a tiny fan, for the boys a small grotesque 
Japanese doll. After the prizes are distributed each 
child takes his place in the middle of the group and 
tells what animal he has attempted to draw, while the 
circle of children make the noise natural to the animal 
named. 

The refreshments are now served to the children 
at the large dining table, or carried into the drawing 
room to them, where they may be seated about in groups. 
Serve iced bouillon, chicken sandwiches, thin slices of 
tongue, ices, cakes and lemonade. Each child has given 
him a little paper box of candy that had been put at 
his place at the supper table and this he takes home 
with him. 

When the refreshments are eaten, clear the dining 
table, and move away the chairs. Stand the children 
in a row around the board, and hand to each in order 
a long stiff switch or stick ; or you may give the switches 
to all at once. With these the little ones are to hook 
the bags off the tips of the umbrella ribs. It will require 
a little care to slip the end of the stick through the loop 
of string by which the paper bag is suspended and lift 
it down without dropping it. Fortunately, the contents 
of the parcels are of the unbreakable variety, so no 
damage is done if they fall. 

If there is any time left before the hour for depart- 
ure, have some comparatively quiet games such as "ring 
around a rosy,-' or "hunt the slipper," always bearing 
in mind that paper costumes, while pretty and effective, 



PARTIES FOR CHILDREN 157 

are not proof against the rough handling inseparable 
from romping games. 

A WINTER PICNIC 

By Hester Price 

Margie Dean was a little girl who had been patient 
and good through a long illness, but now that she felt 
strong again it seemed hard to her that she could not 
run and play with the boys and girls she knew. ( 'ii«' 
day she was standing at tKe window mournfully watch- 
ing the children go by with their sleds and skates, when 
her mother said: "Margie, Jet's have your little friends 
spend Saturday here. Suppose we play 'tis summer 
and ask all the boys and girls to a winter picnic." 

The invitations were short notes on small sheets 
of white paper with a bit of fern at the top of each. 
You may imagine the children's surprise when they read : 
"Will you come down to my pond at 1 o'clock Saturday?" 
They asked each other : "Did your note have 125 Blank 
street on it? How can Margie Dean have a pond in 
the house? Where does she keep it?" You may be 
sure they all decided not to go skating that Saturday. 

What fun Margie and her mother had getting 
ready ! They moved all the potted plants to the dining 
room. They covered the sideboard, serving table and 
mantelpiece with white. Here and there they scattered 
a few ferns and Margie arranged some cat-tails she had 
brought from the country last summer in a great jar 
in one corner. 



PARTIES FOR CHILDREN 159 



The round table was covered with denim of a soft 
green. In the center of the table was the pond. This 
pond was really a round mirror with edges concealed 
with smilax. On its surface were toy ducks and geese, 
little toys of the most inexpensive sort, while grazing on 
the banks were miniature cows, horses and sheep. The 
chandelier was entirely concealed with branches of arbor 
vitae. Over the tablecloth. w r ere scattered a few ferns 
and white narcissi. 

The menu was very simple, but each course was 
so "picnicky" that the children entered merrily into the 
fun. This was what they had for the picnic luncheon: 

Malaga grapes 

Bouillon 

Thm bread and butter 

Broiled chicken Potato straws 

Brown bread and butter 

Sandwiches Cocoa 

Cream cheese and lettuce 

Xut sandwiches 

Bird's nest pudding. Whipped cream 

Small cakes 

The fruit course was in place when the children 
entered the dining room. Though very simply arranged 
this added greatly to the charm of the table. Mrs. Dean 
had made small nests of excelsior and placed one at each 
cover filled with Malaga grapes. Under each nest was 
a fern frond. After the first course small packages, 



160 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

wrapped in Japanese napkins and tied with yellow and 
green baby ribbon, were passed. These packages proved 
to be sandwiches made of different things and to be 
eaten with the different courses. 

The potato straws were crisp and dry. With each 
cup of cocoa were two papier mache straws. The cream 
cheese was made into small "bird's eggs/' flecked with 
pepper and disposed in nests of lettuce. The blancmange 
was molded in eggshells that Margie had taken great 
delight in "blowing." They were arranged upon a flat 
platter in a nest of whipped cream. For this course 
spoons were passed, and Margie gaily reminded her 
friends that even at an outdoor picnic one spoon was 
allowed and she had saved them for the whipped cream. 
The small cakes were iced in three tints, white, yellow 
and pale green. 

At the very last a tray was passed, piled high with 
round bags of yellow and green crepe paper. These 
bags were simply squares of crepe paper fluffed at the 
edges, filled with marsh mallows and tied with baby 
ribbon. The spring colors made a pretty showing and 
the opening of the packages was an added pleasure for 
the children. 

When the picnic was over Mrs. Dean gathered the 
children around a big wood fire and beguiled them into 
discussing summer days, gardening, and the flowers they 
loved best. Together they went through flower catalogs 
till their enthusiasm was high. She then left the room 
and when she came back she had a pretty bag filled 
with small packages of flower seeds. From this each 



PARTIES FOR CHILDREN 161 

child was allowed to take a package and she told them 
to wait until spring and then plant the seed and ^ee 
what flowers would grow. 

The recipes used for the luncheon were the fol- 
lowing : 

Potato Straws — Potato straws are light and harm- 
less and should not be classed with harmful fried food. 
Cat the straws lengthwise of the potato, first in slices 
about one-eighth of an inch thick, and then into straws 
the length of the slices. They should be cooked quickly 
in hot fat until Crisp and of a lemon color. The straws 
are especially pretty if cut with a fluted knife. 

Nut Sandwiches — Cut thin slices of buttered 
graham bread into circles with a small biscuit cutter. 
Place on top of each sandwich the meat of one-half of an 
English walnut. The walnuts may be held in place 
with a little butter. 

Bird's Nest Pudding — Put one pint of milk on to 
heat in a doifble boiler, moisten four tablespoons of 
cornstarch mixed with four tablespoons sugar with a 
little cold milk and stir into the hot milk; stir until it 
thickens, then add a teaspoon of vanilla. Have ready 
some eggshells that have been emptied from a small hole 
in the top, fill them with this mixture, stand them in a 
pan of Indian meal or flour to prevent them from fall- 
ing over, and put in a cold place to harden. Whip a 
pint of cream, dispone the cornstarch eggs upon a round 
platter, surrounded with a nest of whipped cream. 



162 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



FOR THE LITTLE FOLKS 
By B. P. 

I know of no expenditure of time and work which 
yields such a return in pleasure as entertaining a party 
of children. "It blesses him that gives and him that 
takes," except in cases where the latter is in danger of 
being killed by excess of culinary kindness. I have 
observed, too, that children are just as contented, and 
far happier as to their insides, if quantity and quality 
instead of bewildering variety, be kept in mind in pro- 
viding the table. It is most important that the dishes 
served be those easily assimilated and easily digested 
together. An unwise selection of tilings, each good by 
itself alone, has sent many a little tot home to have a 
"pain under his apron" or rather under his nightie 
(as I believe all children take darkness and the "wee 
sma' hours" to enjoy this common affliction at its best). 
I feel it is such a pity to give rich and conflicting 
food to children! 

Among the many desirable and reasonably safe 
items from which a suitable menu may be selected are 
the following: any form of bouillon or cream soup in 
cups; nourishing sandwiches or tiny buttered rolls, with 
cold meats sliced thin-— tongue (not canned) and turkey 
or chicken. As a rule, children prefer the last to all 
meats, so either creamed or cold it always disappears 
in astonishing quantities, and when creamed, peas are 
good with it. Novel and ornamental small cakes, cookies 



PARTIES FOR CHILDREN 163 

or kisses; custards, junkets or a simple homemade ice 
cream; and pure candy — the ribbon candies which look 
so much and amount to so little. For drinks, chocolate 
is particularly attractive to young people, with its white 
cap of whipped cream; lemonade (sometimes), and 
plenty of water. Ice cream may be molded in forms 
and enjoyed with the eyes, but is too often so hard that 
it is no pleasure to eat it, and I think it better to have 
softer cream served in small fancy cases. Fresh or 
canned pineapple is a wholesome accompaniment, as 
this fruit contains an acid which helps to digest milk. 
But, do your best, and once in a while one comes across 
a freaky child who is not satisfied with anything on the 
table. I well remember our efforts to warm and fill one 
bashful guest— scarcely more than a baby — -who after 
refusing everything, timidly raised his serious brown 
eyes and asked if we had any cold potatoes in the house ! 
I give a recipe for a nutritious broth which makes a good 
beginning for little and big: 

Three pounds of beef cut from the shin; three 
pounds of bone from same, cracked ; four quarts of 
water, and four teaspoons of salt. Trim off the dried 
skin and other unusable parts of the meat, cut the 
remainder into small pieces, place with the other ingre- 
dients in a covered earthen jar and let stand one hour 
before setting in a slow oven to cook from eight to 
twelve hours. Put through a coarse strainer and win mi 
cold remove fat. In serving, add more seasoning if you 
Avish, and never heat above one hundred ami seventy- 
five degrees. This may also be used as a jelly. 



1 64 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

A plate of little turtle cakes never fails to call 
forth squeals of delight. Bake a plain cake mixture in 
tiny pans in a hoi oven; frost and put a fat raisin in 
the center of each before the frosting hardens; pinch the 
buds out of four small cloves and arrange for feet; use 
one, containing the bud, for a head; and the pointed 
stem of another for a tail. Plain cookies, cut in shapes 
of oak or maple leaves and frosted with green frosting, 
are both delicious and wholesome; and cookies sugared 
and bearing the initials of the guests in white frosting; 
o]' frosted first and the letters put on with an icing col- 
ored with chocolate, are far more tempting- than cookies 
that are less individual. 

For a birthday, the crowning glory of the table is 
the cake, resplendent with candles. The candles are 
lighted and allowed to burn during the eating of the 
refreshments, each child blowing out one of the lights 
just before cutting the cake, which is passed round last 
of all. Mothers are few who can refuse this pleasure, 
but one who had an abnormal fear of lire compromised 
by allowing a single huge wax candle to burn in the 
center of the cake, using as a safe holder the cylindrical 
opening left by the tube pan in the baking. The cake 
should be ' f good size and plain in every way save 
looks. The good old fashion of inserting in the dough 
when in the pan a .silver thimble, a ring, a new ten- 
cent piece and a bean, never loses its charm. When the 
cake is cut there is always excitement till the one who 
is to be first married gets the ring (and I have known 
young women of four years to be intensely interested in 



PARTIES FOR CHILDREN 165 

this superstition) ; whoever gets the bean will be a 
ruler, nothing less than president, probably ; the thimble 
denotes an ideal housewife, in embryo; and she who 
gets the silver piece will have riches all her days. In 
olden times, when sensibilities were perhaps not so 
acute, somebody found a clove in the cake, and so pro- 
claimed himself a knave-to-be. 

Do not use confectioner's sugar to frost the cake, 
but white of egg and pulverized sugar or a boiled icing. 
Sprinkle with grated cocoanut and ornament the top 
with a border of tiny chocolate drops or candied cher- 
ries, or with crystallized fruit cut into bits, or with 
candied caraway seeds. Dainty candle holders in all 
colors are for sale at confectioners', but a pretty sub- 
stitute can be made of a fringe of tissue paper wound 
tightly around each candle before setting into the frost- 
ing; spread out the fringe to catch any wax. 

At the last party at which I officiated, the candles 
were so numerous that we cut a ring of pasteboard — its 
inside diameter being just that of the cake at the base — 
covered it with green tissue paper and ornamented it 
with laurel leaves. On this frame yellow candles were 
fixed. The table was trimmed with sprays and branches 
of laurel, with tangerine oranges invisibly tied to them 
to simulate the natural growth of the fruit. These 
made an effective showing and precious souvenirs to 
carry home. 

If candles are not to be used, a cake which is a 
favorite with owners of a sweet tooth is one made of 
an angel cake mixture, baked in two parts and put 



PARTIES FOR CHILDREN 167 

togethef with a layer of marshmaHows which have been 
soaked a short time in milk strongly flavored with 
sherry. The top is to be covered with the same and 
garnished profusely witli whipped cream — also flavored 
with shorrv — and put on with a star pastry tube. The 
cake and the cream need very little sugar. 

The making of popcorn balls always pleases little 
people, the greater part of the corn being popped before- 
hand, of course ; and a wonder-ball party, while a more 
serious undertaking, is sure to make a hit. Bits of 
presents are bought or made — charms, money, doll's 
gear and what-not — and one used as the center of a 
ball of worsted, which, as it is wound, eoneeals the little 
gifts wrapped in soft paper and put in from time to 
time. The receiver begins to knit on coarse needles, 
and as the yarn is used the little surprises fall out. 
It is certainly a great incentive to industry to have 
something nice drop into your lap while you work ; but 
it needs a very patient mother and assistants to look 
out for dropped stitches. 

For girls of a little older growth, the idea of an 
entertainment designated in the invitation sent my 
small niece of twelve as "a blissful tea," deserves to he 
passed along. After greeting her hostess, each guest 
is given a menu card, with pencil attached, upon which 
are numbers, from one to ten or more, with a blank 
space after each; and across the top the line. "Where 
ignorance is bliss," in gold lettering. A colored repro- 
duction of some dainty dish, cut from advertisements, 
is pasted neatly on each card, the things in the bill 



168 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS . 

of fare being suggested so far as possible. (These 
cards were manufactured by the little girl who gave 

the party, and that is when; part of her t'un came in.) 
The recipient writes her name on the card, puis a 
check mark against the numbers she selects and the 
orders are duly served by friends in caps and aprons, 
who till them from another room after consulting a 
similar card winch has the list completed and tacked 
up over the serving table; for example: 

1. ({lass of child's punch. 

2. Chicken croquette. 

3. College tee. 

4. Cup of chocolate. 

5. Olive. 

ti. Box of candy. 

7. Toothpick. 

8. Rolled sandwiches. 

9. (I lass of water. 
10. Macaroons 

The numbers may he increased, or other articles 
readily substituted for the ones mi this list. The first 
order may he limited to live or six numbers, ami a 
second order to two, to provide for a. supposable case 
when an unfortunate has checked perhaps, one, five, 

seven and nine, and finds that ignorance is neither 
blissful nor filling. A supply of small tables set in 
convenient spots is a necessity for a party of this kind. 

Child's Punch — Boil together for five minutes one 
quart of water anyone and one-half pounds of sugar; 



PARTIES FOR CHILDREN x6g 

add gr&ted rind of one lemon and one orange, and 
when cool, strain. Add juice of two oranges and tour 
lemons. Pour in a pitcher with a lump of ice, add a 
quarter of a pound each of candied cherries and pine- 
apple cut fine, and a quart of water. 

Peanut Cream — Three pints of peanuts, shelled 
and put through a chopper adjusted to cut as tine as 
possible, two cups of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of milk 
and a small piece of butter. Stir together till dissolved 
the sugar, butter and milk; then cook without disturb- 
ing till it spins a thread, or till you can make a soft 
ball of a little of the syrup dropped in ice water. Take 
from the fire and while one person stirs, another must 
pour in the nuts. Beat till thick and creamy, pour 
into buttered pans and cut in small squares when cold. 

The amusing experiment of a Lilliputian naval 
battle — which is so old that I trust it is new — always 
entertains a company of boys. Let them model, say, 
;i dozen or more pieces of chalk to resemble ships, 
making the bottoms even, and using matches (without 
tips) for masts, smokestacks and turrets. Color part 
of them with black ink and leave the rest white. Put 
the different colors — the opposing forces — in a row 
along the sides of a very large platter and draw an 
imaginary line lengthwise across it. Let each boy 
choose sides, and then let the lord high admiral (the 
young host) carefully pour a good quantity of vinegar 
between the chalk sticks. Instantly there will be an 
audible seething-, like the hissing of shells m actual 
warfare, while the ships will begin to move forward 



170 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

iii slow revolutions, leaving streaks of foam behind. 
When meeting at the dividing line, they will have 
attained quite a respectable speed, bumping and hitting 
in the endeavor to push one another farthest from the 
line. The engagement otften proves an exciting one. 
Of course the side is victorious which has the greater 
number of ships in the enemy's waters after the cruel 
war is over. 

But no matter what the other entertainment may 
be, children anticipate and frankly enjoy the good 
things to eat. My experience was doubtless not unique 
at one party, when at the end of a rollicking game, and 
while preparing for another, I felt a soft hand slip into 
mine and heard the whisper: "But, auntie, when are 
we going to have the party?" 



A "THREE-YEAR-OLD" PARTY 

By K. C. H. 

When Eleanor was three years old we decided to 
avoid the excitement of a birthday party and celebrate 
with a tiny dinner party. Two little girls, of three 
summers each, were the guests. Several days before 
the birthday baby was thrown into excitement over the 
lovely pink baskets mamma was making, and her first 
thought when she awoke on her birthday morning was 
to give mamma throe sweet kisses and one to grow on, 
and to remark. "Xow I don't have to wait any longer 
for my basket." The baskets were made of paste- 



PARTIES FOR CHILDREN 171 

board, covered with pink crepe paper and lined with 
cream colored paper. Each basket was filled with 
cboice candies. In the center of each was a tiny nest 
made of packing moss. Three candy eggs peeped from 
each little nest. These were the favors, and three 
childish hearts were made glad by them. Mamma made 
a lovely pink and white marble cake, icing it in white 
and covering if with pretty pink candies; three little 
candles seni their congratulatory beams to the little 
hostess from this pinnacle of sweets. A pedestal of 
flowers field the cake, and very beautiful it looked. 
Friends sent in bouquets, so the table was bright with 
flowers. The number three was made prominent, 
deviled eggs, butter, r\c, all being served from small 
plates each holding three. The potato nests were very 
(iite. Three small plates were set on the ice, butter 
was put in a coarse cheesecloth and pressed through in 
the shape of a ring*. When dinner was served three 
small potatoes were put in each ring of butter and 
speckled with coarse pepper. These delighted the 
children. How each little maiden trembled with 
importance as she touched the match to one of the 
candles, and how grown-up they felt, to sit in chairs 
al the table, without bibs, waited on like ladies; and 
ladies they were, behaving with decorum and -till enjoy- 
ing the new feature with true childish delight. 



BOYS' AND GIRLS' PARTIES 



BOYS' AND GIRLS' PARTIES 

WALKING LETTERS 
By Mary Dawson 

AN excellent game for young people from six to 
eleven years is called Walking Letters. The 
idea made its debut a few weeks ago at a child's 
party in New York. The children present are formed 
into two bands or sides, each band containing exactly 
the same number of players. The bands are separated 
when the game is about to begin, each side taking up 
its position in one end of the room. Lots are drawn 
to decide which band will be first to choose a letter. The 
side drawing the slip marked "Begin" consult among 
themselves and choose a letter — any letter in the alpha- 
bet, from A to Z. The letter is kept strictly secret from 
members of the opposing band and is walked by one 
of the beginning side, who takes up his position in the 
center of the floor, and forms the letter by walking 
about in any direction necessary to describe an imaginary 
character upon the carpet. Each letter is walked three 
times, very slowly and carefully. If the opposing party 
can guess its name, a point is won for their side and 
chalked upon the blackboard where score is kept. If 
they fail to guess it. nothing is won, and the turn passes 
to the opponents, who now endeavor to guess a second 
letter outlined by one of those who were formerly guess- 



176 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

ers. And so the fun goes on until each side has had 
plenty of chances. When the guessing side wins a point, 
that is, when they guess the letter correctly, they may 
demand other letters, and go on guessing and winning 
until they lose a point, when the turn reverts to the 
opponents. 

Numbers can be walked as well as letters, and will 
be found to make a pleasant deviation in the long game. 
Walking Letters offers a suggestion for an afternoon 
party which can be arranged for in half an hour by using 
the idea and securing a few pretty tilings for prizes. 
Members of the side winning the most points draw 
among themselves for the first prize. It is just as well 
to have inexpensive consolation gifts on hand for all who 
fail to win a trophy, thus preventing a lot of disap- 
pointment. 

A BIG GAME HUNT 
By Mrs. Paedagogue 

When my yearly problem of getting acquainted with 
the senior class faced me last fall, it seemed to me that 
there was nothing new under the sun. But in October 
we had our "big game hunt," a very nonsensical even- 
ing, and yet we had a good time and got acquainted. 

My invitation had a little oval picture of President 
Roosevelt in the upper left-hand corner and was written 
and read like this : "To meet President Theodore Eoose- 
velt's ideas and to follow his example, the pleasure of 
Miss Brown's company is requested for a Big Game 



BOYS' AND GIRLS' PARTIES 177 

Hunt, Friday evening, October 17, 1902, to start from 
12 Main street promptly at 7.30 o'clock. Personally 
conducted by .Mr. and Mrs. Paedagogue." 

When our guests came, they assembled in our large 
living room, where there were seats for the greater part 
of them. This room had little in the way of decora- 
tions; just a few branches of hemlock in the electroliers, 
and boughs of oak and maple over the mantel and the 
portieres. A big fire was laid in the fireplace, ready to 
light. We chatted all together until about 8 o'clock, 
when I cast my eye over the company and saw the usual 
formation — nearly every one of the boys in a solid 
phalanx on one side of the room. Surely it was time to 
start the hunt. 

The company was made up of thirty-two high 
school seniors, the six assistant teachers, Mr. Paeda- 
gogue and me. The teachers were the ministering angels 
who helped me all through the evening. At 8 o'clock 
they gave to each of our guests a little game bag which 
we had made for them. In each hag was a score card 
and pencil. Then I explained to the young people that 
all through the vicinity were many game animals, chiefly 
concealed in the woods. They were to have twenty 
minutes to hunt them, then they were to report their 
scores, according to the tally cards, and the largest scores 
should have prizes. We drew the curtains aside, throw- 
ing open the study, the dining room and the conserv- 
atory, which had a really woodsy appearance. Each 
room was lighted by only one bulb, and that covered 
with green tissue paper And surrounded with hemlock 



178 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

branches. -In every corner stood a little tree of oak 
or hemlock; screens covered with maple boughs were 
arranged to make aisles and groves. In the twigs and 
branches and in any other good hiding places in the 
looms, hidden as effectively as possible, were five pounds 
of animal crackers. 

As soon as Mr. Paedagogue wound the hunting horn, 
Hie guests began the hunt with enthusiasm. The funny 
little animals were put into the game bags as captured, 
and in twenty minutes the hunting horn called the 
hunters from the forest. The tally cards were written 
like this : Lion twenty, tiger twenty, bear twenty, hip- 
popotamus twenty, wild goat ten, wild sheep ten: all 
other animals, five each. Each hunter reported his own 
score, and then the prizes were awarded. The boy and 
Hie girl having the highest scores had each a little silver 
st ickpin in the form of a fox's head; and the consolation 
prize was a bag of salt — to put on the tails of the 
animals, of course. 

After ten minutes' chat, the teachers distributed to 
each of the boys and girls a sheet of manila paper, about 
sixteen by twenty-four, a colored crayon, a card having 
the names of forty animals and a little card having the 
names of one of these animals and a number. Every 
guest was asked to draw on his sheet of paper a picture 
of the animal named on his little card, and to attach its 
number. On the study table was a dictionary, open at 
pictures of animals, and when a boy told me that he 
couldn't remember how a camelopard looked, I referred 
him to the book. So in ten minutes the pictures began 



BOYS' AND GIRLS' PARTIES 179 

to come in, and I hung every one "on the line," or the 

wires which were stretched the length of the living room. 
After a littJe time to admire the works of art, the guests 
were asked to attach numbers to the names of animals 
on their score cards, thus guessing what each drawing 
represented. There was a good deal of fun in this. 

After time had been given to put a number after 
each name on the score card, the lists of what they were 
intended to represent were read. Again the winners had 
simple little prizes: he, a china pointer dog; she, a pho- 
tographic reproduction of a lion's head, mounted passe- 
partout. The booby was an animal alphabet-book. The 
names were written on the score card, as some of the 
drawings would be hard to identify. 

Xext came supper. We had taken forty little 
wooden plates, such as are sold for picnics, and on two 
of them drawn, with a few lines of sepia, lions 7 heads, on 
two others, elephants; and so on, until we had twenty 
pairs, which we divided into two sets of twenty plates 
each. "We distributed one set of these to the boys, the other 
to the girls, and thus the boys found their mates for sup- 
lie]-. When the partners were found and the company 
seated, a part of the boys on piazza cushions on the floor, 
my ministering angels passed the very simple picnic 
luncheon — sandwiches, stuffed eggs, coffee, crullers and 
cheese, and olives and pickles. I was not able to get for 
my coffee the tin cups that I wanted but I did get sturdy 
mugs, suitable for any camp ; and the napkins were 
paper ones. After luncheon, the fire was lighted, and, 
as we sat watching* the climbing names, glowing yellow 



i8o THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

and green with driftwood, I had all the lights turned 
off, leaving the room with no illumination save the fire 
and Mr. Paedagogue's low reading lamp, with its dark 
shade. Beside the lamp sat Mr. Paedagogue, and as 
we watched the firelight, he read — and Mr. Paedagogue 
can read — the last few pages of The Trail of the 
Sandhill Stag. 

Then two boys of the class came in, each with a 
cushion under one arm and a banjo under the other, 
seated themselves on the floor and struck up In the Good 
Old Summer Time, which has been a rally song of the 
class ever since the ditty came out. All the class took 
it up at once and sang it through. Until 10 o'clock they 
sang college and other popular songs. Then the player;; 
stopped and the lights were turned on. 

This entertainment might have been burdensome 
had I not shared the work with the teachers. A week 
before the party 1 gave the forty plates to four of the 
teachers, and each made five pairs, taking the little 
sketches of animals'' heads from the margins of Thomp- 
son-Seton's books. The other teachers wrote the score 
cards. Wednesday before the party we had a et bee" and 
made the game bags with the help of my sewing ma- 
chine. Mr. Paedagogue and T had cut a part of them 
the evening before, so the basting and stitching began 
at once ; we were all busy, there was no warting and we 
finished them in three hours, besides drinking a pot of 
tea. The bags were made of khaki, or something much 
like it, the class color being yellow. 

The little pencils are a considerable item of ex- 



BOYS' AND GIRLS' PARTIES 



pense, ami it would be just as well to pass common 
pencils when the score is called for. The afternoon of 
the party we arranged the rooms in something loss than 
two hoars. Mr. Paedagogue had two of the boys bring 
us a load of boughs, hemlock, oak and maple. The larg- 
est ones — little trees — we stood in the corners ; the small- 
est we put in the electroliers. The rest we tied together 
in pairs by the ow\>. near the tips of the boughs, leaving 
about six inches of cord between them. I borrowed sev- 
eral screens and made aisles of them in each room, then 
hung the pairs of boughs by these cords over the tops 
of the screens, a branch on each side. Large boughs 
are always so satisfactory a decoration; the foliage is 
always graceful, and they are quickly put up and taken 
down. 



EASTER FUN AND EASTER FEASTING 

By E. M. 

A party given last year for a crowd of hoys and girls 
home on the Easter vacation was fuil of new ideas for 
entertaining at this season. All of them could be 
adapted for older people if desired. The invitations 
were lettered in green and violet on paper eggs, for 
which ingenious egg-shaped envelopes had been made 
by the hostess. Easter colors were even secured in the 
outside of the invitations by writing the address in violet 
ink and obeying Uncle Sam's behest by using two green 
one-cent stamps. The invitation read: 



182 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

"Elizabeth Evans, 
Eight to Eleven, 
Easter Evening. 
Eggs, Euchre, Edibles." 

The guests found reception rooms decorated in 
white, green and purple. The young hostess was aided in 
receiving by three delighted little sisters, each one in a 
ballet-like, white frock fringed aboul the edge of the 
skirt with purple violets and their leaves. The crowd 
of jolly young people were divided. Those who wished 
to play euchre each received a tiny basket, not unlike a 
nest, lined with fine straw. It was designed to hold 
the counters, which consisted of purple eggs for the 
winners, pale green ones for the losers. "Green with 
envy" was the epithet bestowed on a booby who re'tired 
from the game with not a single purple egg in 
the nest. 

The young folks who decided in favor of games in- 
stead of card-, had all sorts of fun awaiting them. 
One frolic weni on in the big attic, where a strange, 
maze-like path two W'i-t wide had been whitened with 
chalk. It wound in and out behind trunks, among 
old furniture and barrels, sometimes perilously near i~\i> x 
stair head, or into corners where one had to follow it 
with stooping shoulders. This white path was an egg- 
rolling alley, and the rollers were th. j boys and girls 
who found themselves partners by the color of the eggs 
they had chosen. The eggs had been hard boiled, then 
dyed. There were two of each shade, and when the 



BOYS' AND GIRLS' PARTIES 183 

young folks drew them from the depths of a long bag, 
they took the color which luck ordered. A monitor 
stationed in the attic with a paper of rules started the 
game, each color coming in a certain order. The egg- 
rolling couple were armed each with a long-handled 
wooden spoon, siich as a housewife uses to stir her 
pickles and preserves. The eggs were started very care- 
fully and coaxed or tapped along, using the spoons as 
bats. The contest lay in keeping the eggs from rolling 
orf the chalked path. As soon as one rolled over the 
edge, that spooner was out of the game until a turn 
came again, for in succession each one had three chances 
at the attic egg-rolling. It was great fun, even if only 
three came out winners, for the contest was anything 
but an easy one. 

Another delightful half hour was spent over a hen 
and chicken game, something after the same idea which 
obtained at donkey parties years ago. At one end of a 
room well cleared of furniture, was tacked a big sheet 
of paper on which there was a clever, although rough, 
sketch in colored chalks of a clucking mother hen, a 
straw nest and a number of chipped eggs. To each 
boy and girl was given a roughly executed watercolor 
sketch of a little chicken cut out from heavy paper; to 
the back was attached a gummed wafer. It was also 
numbered, that number belonging till the game was over 
to the boy or girl who had drawn the chicken. In their 
turn, according to the number, a player was blindfolded, 
ordered to start at the tinkle of a bell in the direction 
of the hen and her eggs, and moistening the paper 



184 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

wafer, stick the chicken on, as" near an egg or the mother 
hen as possible. Each player, still blindfolded, was led 
to a chair to sit in darkness till the game was finished. 
The result, when all were able to use their eyes, was 
uproarious shouts of laughter. Some of the little chick- 
ens sat on the top of the mother hen's head, one hung 
perilously head first from the point of her beak, some 
were climbing up her well feathered sides, while others 
lay in the straw kicking their heels in the air, or they 
blotched an eggshell out of existence. Two prizes were 
given to the players who had perched a chick in the 
most ridiculous place, the number on the back of the 
paper chick denoting the winner. 

Another frolic, just before supper was announced, 
consisted of an egg hunt. This time the eggs were of 
the gourd variety. They were tucked away in every 
possible hiding place which could be found in a parlor 
and sitting room. Only one hunter at a time was al- 
lowed to go searching, the others were shut out in the 
hall. The hostess carried a memorandum of where 
the eggs had been hidden, and accompanying the searcher 
she. clapped her hands slow or fast as the hunt waxed 
cold or hot. Each egg bore in gold letters the name 
of a guest, and if the wrong one was found it was re- 
turned to its hiding place, the hunt continuing till each 
one found an egg that bore its owner's name. It was 
found that the top of each gourd egg had been removed, 
then covered with a lid of paper and plaster of paris. 
Inside were tiny favors, a thimble, a daintily dressed 
wee doll, a strawberry emery, a pincushion, a button- 



BOYS' AND GIRLS' PARTIES 185 

hook, a stickpin, a ribbon, collar buttons, anything Lilli- 
putian enough to be hidden iji an egg. 

The appearance of the supper table was greeted with 
hearty cheers. It appealed to the artistic sense of a 
group of happy young folks as well as to their appetites. 
In the center of the table over a mal of asparagus I'mit, 
a little wheelbarrow tilled with candy eggs was drawn 
by two frolicsome brown rabbits, cutting up all sorts of 
didoes. The driver was a yellow chicken with a pair of 
reins in its beak. From this centerpiece radiated purple 
and green ribbons to each place 1 , ending in a little mat 
of asparagus and a few stray violets. In the center of 
each sal a Humpty Dumpty egg, iln^^d with a tissue 
paper headdress to cartoon each young guest. The* 
dudish boy's Humpty Dumpty wore an imitation silk 
hat. the gir] who went in tor golf found an egg wearing 
a droll little tam-o"-shanter. The hoy who had won the 
title of "Staind*' in school discovered his place by an 
egg with a dunce cap, while the football tad's egg needed 
no hat, it was liberally thatched with a crop of un- 
combed excelsior. 

The menu was simple enough, but excellent. There 
was a splendid array of sandwich plates, each one bearing 
at the side a brown candy rabbit with its ears pricked 
up and holding aloft on a paper banner a sandwich 
name, egg, chii ken, lettuce, tongue, ham, mil . or what- 
ever the filling might be. The ice cream was delight- 
fully erved, and the conceit was .1 homemade one. From 
beets of sponge ca^e had been cut oblongs, which did 
duty as small wagons, with tiny sponge cake rounds 



186 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

stuck in by toothpicks to look J ike wheels at the four 
coiners. Each wagon bore a big white ice cream 
egg, molded with two spoons from the hard frozen 
mixture. 

TWO JOLLY EVENINGS 

By M. Louise Shaw 

One rainy autumn day gave promise of such a 
disagreeable evening, I thought it would be pleasant 
Id plan a little amusement for my brother, younger 
sister and a cousin A\ho was visiting us. After a 
IVw moments' thought I gathered several magazines 
and cut from them the most interesting looking illus- 
trated advertisements, carefully clipping from them all 
lettering winch might afford a clue as to what they 
were to advertise. I intended to use about thirty, but 
found so many that I liked, some clever drawings, 
others ridiculous, and some excellent puzzles, that my 
final number was fifty. I then numbered each illustra- 
tion with a .good-sized figure and made a numbered 
list of the advertisements. This list of course was for 
niv own use. 

In the evening while Ave sat by the fireplace eating 
fudge, I produced my clippings and gave several to 
each, together with a. slip of paper bearing fifty num- 
bers, and a pencil, telling them to guess what the illus- 
trations advertised and to write the name of each beside 
the corresponding number on the slip given them. 



BOYS' AND GIRLS' PARTIES 187 

Interest was aroused ai once and did not diminish 
throughout the evening. At last all were guessed but 
five or six, which were declared to be too puzzling. 
Then 1 read the correct list aloud. Some of the guesses 
were wrong, but not surprising. One picture of a 
Bmiling maiden eating bonbons was thought to adver- 
tise a particular brand of chocolates, while in reality 
it Mas her shining teeth disclosed to view which gave 
the key to the illustration. Those with the double 
meanings caused the most amusement. As no compari- 
sons were made during the contest, the lists differed 
much. 

Another evening we spent in a pleasant way. I 
wrote on lour slips of paper 11k; initials of us four, 
one se! on each slip. Beneath these I wrote a list of ten 
questions, as follows, leaving a space below each one: 
1. Description of this person? 2. What is his favorite 
amusement? 3. Chief characteristics? 4. Usual occu- 
pation? 5. Favorite books? (>. Chief virtue? 7. 
Greatest fault? 8. Greatest talent? 9. Chief dislikes? 
10. Greatest ambition? After giving each a card bear- 
ing a set of initials not his own, 1 asked each to fill out 
in the space below an answer to each question contain- 
ing three word,-, each word commencing with the initials 
on the card held, in their correct order. For illustra- 
tion, take the initials of Charles Dana Gibson, and 
suppose we answer Question Xo. 4 : "What is his usual 
occupation ?" AnsAver : "Cleverly Drawing Girl?."' 
Much amusement wa- afforded later in the evening 
when we exchanged cards, and each read aloud what 



i88 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

somebody else had written about another somebody- 
else. Many were the sly but good-natured allusions to 
the little tricks and fancies known to be characteristic of 
the owner of the initials. In the corner of each card I 
had made a little sketch and each now serves as a 
souvenir of a pleasant evening. 



PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS 



PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS 

THE DICKER PARTY 

By Natalie Bell 

A"DICKEK PAKTY" is an amusing function 
much in vogue the past summer at Bar Harbor 

and some other northern resorts. The guests bring 
from one to a dozen articles with which they are willing 
to part. These are carried about, well displayed by their 
respective owners, thus provoking conversation in plenty. 
"What have you that I want?" says A, meeting his best 
friend B,.who is decorated with a bunch of striped and 
dotted, plaid and plain neckties of every hue. "That 
depends upon whether you have anything that I'll take/ 1 
retorts B. And this is the sociable spirit of the dicker 
party. Each one examines the other's merchandise, and 
"dickers" it pleased. Sometimes a certain article will 
he dickered from one to another until it has been the 
successive property of every person in the room. Many 
laughable exchanges occur. 

A popular artist was a guest at a gay little hotel 
where a dicker party was held and where everyone knew 
everyone else. 80 this gentleman brought to the fray 
at least half a dozen pairs of trousers, worn and weather- 
beaten, old hats and caps, and pipes galore ; all cf which 
he dickered away to. + he belles of the house in exchange. 
for gay ribbons till he resembled a fluttering Maypole. 



ig2 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

Stickpins, hatpins, handkerchiefs, laces, hats and wraps, 
collars, buttons and buckles, sashes, books, penholders, 
fans, vases and mugs, pincushions, bric-a-brac, anything 
and everything, even candy, appeared for exchange. One 
lady of quick and artistic impulse, who had just arrived 
at the hotel, took from her trunk a large flat hat she 
had intended to use for the sun and trimmed it gor- 
geously, in about ten minutes, with natural flowers and 
huge bows of pink and white tissue paper. It "took" 
immensely, and was soon dickered off for a cunning lace 
collar. The second owner appeared in it at breakfast 
the next day. 

Given a good-sized party of friendly and fun-loving 
people, 1 cannot think of anything more really amusing 
than the dicker party. Why could it not be given, by 
invitation, in aid of small charities? 

A HAP-HAZARD ROOF PARTY 

By Camilla j. Knight 

The invitations read, "A hap-hazard roof party," 
and the hostess agreed to "furnish the hazard." The 
guests were requested to wear old clothes, and two of 
the boys responded so literally that most of the girls 
refused to be seen near them for a moment. As the 
hostess lived in the upper flat of a small apartment 
bouse, the roof was the most comfortable place for 
entertaining in the summer. A large old carpet was 
spread on the gravel, with as many seats as possible 
placed around it. 



PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS 193 

Coming up the stairs, the guests followed sign- 
boards pointing "To the half-way house," as the flat was 
labeled, and there they met the hostess, who directed 
them to the "summit," On the roof door was the 
placard, "Consult dramatis personae first/' But it was 
a long time before they found it, because, in hunting, 
they stopped to read so many other signs, such as "Keep 
off the grass," "Ten dollars' fine if you pick the flowers," 
"To the cave" (the fancy tower in front), "To the 
animals," "To the toboggan slide" (the stairway roof, 
also labeled "Out of repair"). 

Hammocks, chairs, parapets, chimneys, had appro- 
priate remarks on them, the steamer chair, for instance, 
bearing "This chair for the oldest guest." There were 
forty-three different signs, made with a brush and ink 
on wrapping paper. A unique document of considerable 
length, tacked on one of the chimneys, told the story 
of the evening, and brought in the name of every guest, 
some in the style of "hidden names," others as puns, 
execrable or excusable. The title and beginning were as 
follows : 

"Reid and Ponder 

"At the Eing-ing of the Belle, we have come here 
from our Holmes, sweet Holmes, to- (K) night, to sit 
awhile side by Sidey, for a season of perfect Bliss, as 
we meet Mo's(ch)eldom than we could wish," etc., etc., 
the names being written heavily in red ink. 

Finally reaching "dramatis personae," the guests 
found their duties clearly defined. All entered into the 



194 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

spirit of the thing, and made the affair a brilliant 
success. A former resident and a recent bride were 
guests of honor. The acrobats performed vaudeville 
gymnastic feats; the mounted police immediately 
climbed to the top of the chimney ; the bureau of infor- 
mation, with his henchman at his heels, stalked about 
with an air of profound knowledge; and the mistress 
of the robes naively inquired, "Shall I put the robes in 
the bureau ?" The keeper of the animals strolled about 
with a basket of animal crackers, when she was not 
guarding a corner where was a rare and curious collec- 
tion of toy animals of various sizes, races and colors, 
many of them showing signs of a "previous condition 
of servitude." 

The utmost tact had been used in assigning these 
parts, the hostess putting her own name down as one 
of the court fools. The trumpeters were supplied with 
tin whistles; the sky managers, with opera glasses, to 
look for the moon, which was scheduled to appear at 
9 o'clock. As it was the last of June, and in a northern 
city, the daylight lasted till then. But the moon was 
the only one who went hack on us. She appeared on 
time, but almost immediately hid her face behind some 
light clouds, and refused to show herself again. 

The commissary-general and her assistants being 
ready to serve the refreshments, a lamp and a candle 
were brought up to aid in the proceedings. Plenty of 
lemonade in common glasses, and hundreds of sponge 
drops, were all the refreshment provided. Picnic plates, 
paper napkins and straws, besides being very cheap, 



PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS 195 

added greatly to the fun, which momently became faster 
and more furious. The acrobats volunteered assist- 
ance as waiters, one of them leading the way with the 
candle placed on the end of an old broom. 

Finally, a baby at home came suddenly to the 
recollection of one of the guests, and soon all were leav- 
ing. Someone said : "How are you ever going to get 
all these things down stairs?" 

'Well, you might each 'take something before you 
go/ " suggested the hostess. 

The hint was sufficient. When she entered her 
parlor, a few minutes later, her eyes were greeted by a 
pyramid of chairs and pillows, and a crowd of young 
people pressed around to assure her what a delightful 
time they had had at what someone termed "your bur- 
lesque lawn party!" 

A MONOTYPE PARTY 

By Lydia A. Smith 

A very pleasant and novel way of entertaining a 
small company for an afternoon is to give a monotype 
party. Let the hostess provide for each participant a 
piece of common zinc about five by six inches; and a 
bristol brush, about a ~No. 3, also a medium-sized sable 
brush ; one large tube of ivory black oil .paint will be 
enough for the company, and two or three sheets of 
monotype paper. If the latter is not obtainable, as is 
often the case, the picture can be printed on the back 
of cheap wall paper ;.the less color, of course, the better. 
This seems to take the impression better than any other 



i 9 6 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 




A MEADOW IN MONOTYPE 



PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS 197 

paper, as there is no glaze, it is of the right weight, and 
is usually the mellow cream tint so desirable in the 
work, making a nice tone for the background. Some 
old, soft cloths are necessary for cleaning, and turpentine 
for thinning the paint. 

AVe used the large dining room table for working, 
covering it first with heavy manila paper, that there 
might be no accidents. First select the subject for repro- 
duction. This can be a photograph or print of any kind, 
the chief requisite being simplicity, as the main beauty 
is the balance of light and dark. The work must be 
in masses, ' and more suggestion than detail ; in fact, 
there can be but very little detail in the picture. 

To commence work, squeeze out some of the black 
paint, either on a palette or plate, then paint the entire 
surface of the zinc, very lightly, and with the fingers 
rub this smooth and fine, making a thin, uniform tint 
or tone all over. Take out the high lights with a bit of 
cotton on the end of a stick or brush handle. For 
instance, if the subject selected is a moonlight scene 
with clouds, trees and a glimpse of water, first take out 
the high lights in the clouds ; if there are dark shadows, 
paint them in, using the fingers to form them into 
cloudlike shapes. Xext the trees against the back- 
ground or sky; these can be painted in masses suggestive 
of the growth, unless it is the case of an individual tree, 
like the pine, which is the principal object in the picture. 
Then it should be worked up with a little more detail. 
The foreground can be laid in with the brush and 
modeled with the fingers, taking out suggestive growth 



198 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 




A MOONLIT LAKE 



PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS 199 

near the edge of the picture (this can be done with 
the point of a .stick), cutting out grasses, etc. Most of 
the modeling is clone with the fingers. Take out the 
reflection of the moon on the water in the same manner 
as the clouds; and the moon must be taken out also, 
being very careful as to shape. To finish the edge, hold 
the plate or zinc with one hand and with the cloth over 
the thumb on the other hand, wipe out a tiny edge 
around the zinc, making rather a sharp line with the 
thumb nail. This gives a very nice finish, suggestive 
of a fine print or etching. Xow our picture is ready to 
print and this must be done with a common clothes 
wringer. 

Fasten the wringer to the back of an old chair, if 
there seems to be no other available place. This may 
be inconvenient, but the effort in holding the chair 
down, and the wringer steady, usually tends to break any 
ice that may have existed in the company. First a heavy 
blotter, say nine by twelve inches, is caught by the edge 
in the roller of the wringer. The other edge should be 
held by someone to keep it firm and even. Upon this 
is placed the zinc, paint side up. Xow the paper on 
which the picture is to be printed should be saturated 
with water. If the monotype paper is used it can be 
laid flat in a shallow dish of water and left for a few 
minutes; if the wall paper be used, it is best to lay it 
flat (printed side clown) and wash the back over either 
with a sponge or a bit of absorbent cotton. "When ready 
for printing, put the blotter on it for an instant to 
remove the superfluous water, then lift by the corners 



200 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

and place on the painted zinc, being sure there are no 
wrinkles in the paper, which should be about eight by 
ten inches. Over the zinc and paper place the other 
blotter, holding it firm and steady. Eun the whole 




A FAVORITE SUBJECT 

through the wringer, thus transferring the picture 
painted on the zinc to the paper. Only one impression 
can be successfully printed, as the zinc has to b(3 

repainted for each picture. When through the wringer 
place on the table, remove blotter and carefully peel off 



PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS 



the printed paper. Place where it will dry and the 
picture is read)" for mounting. This can be done now 
or later. 

When ready to mount the picture place it face 
downward on a clean surface, dampen the back and put 




MORE MOONLIGHT 

paste around the edges (library paste is best). Then lift 
carefully find mount in the center of heavy cardboard. 
The picture will shrink quire a bit, hence the necessity 
lor heavy cardboard ; if a light weight is used, the picture 
will not look so welLwheD mounted, as the shrinkage will 
draw the cardboard, unless it is heavy enough to stand 



202 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

the strain. Use a thick mat of unglazed, creamy-toned 
paper and a very simple oak frame. 

As a rule these little parties are very satisfactory, 
as each guest has a hit of his own work, and as there 
is no detail work to be carried out, the picture is easily 
made and is generally appreciated. These are pretty 
Christmas gifts. It is pleasant to have prizes awarded. 

A GROWN-UP CHILDREN'S PARTY 
By Augusta Kortrecht 

Society has introduced as the newest way of having 
a good time, the child's party — not for the little folks, 
oh, dear, no, but for those grown-ups who wish to go back 
to pinafores and knickerbockers just for one night. 
The invitations must plainly request that the guests be 
dressed as children, so that there will be uniformity, for 
nothing dampens the ardor of a costume party like a 
sprinkling of persons not in character. A very fitting 
sentiment for the invitations is : 

"Backward, turn backward, Time, in your flight, 
Make me a child again just for to-night." 

If you receive an invitation to such a party, and for 
any reason cannot enter into the spirit of the thing and 
put off your long skirts and dress suit, then politely 
decline by all means, and save both yourself and the 
others the unpleasantness of having a misfit in the circle. 
If you do go, then make yourself a child as nearly 
as possible. The women must be little girls, hair down, 



PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS 203 

either curled or tied back in some youthful fashion, and 
dresses short; and the men must be small boys, in short 
trousers or juvenile looking sailor suits. 

The games for this party are the old ones you used 
to play, "stage coach," "button, button, who's got the 
button ?" etc. Recitations are suitable, and dancing, 
both fancy figures and the round and square dances. 
Anything that: can accent the juvenile effect adds to the 
fun. If paper and pencil games are liked, the following 
is new and amusing: Each person draws a picture of 
some scene from Mother Goose, then passes the paper 
on to the right-hand neighbor, who looks at the drawing 
and writes below what he guesses it to represent. The 
guess is covered by folding a tuck in the slip of paper, 
leaving the drawing visible, and the next person makes 
his guess, keeping this up until everybody has guessed 
on each picture. A prize may he given for the artist 
whose picture received the most correct guesses, and also 
a booby prize makes the fun livelier. 

The supper table, of course, must have more elab- 
orate dishes than one for a party of real children, but 
the decorations should carry out the idea of the illusion. 
Any pretty centerpiece will do — a gorgeous doll in a 
bower of blossoms, a toy automobile filled with fruits, 
or just a flower piece, which is always in good taste. Tf 
rather handsome favors are to be given, silver spoons 
and little silver pushers are suitable; but more fre- 
quently tiny dolls for the little girl-ladies and chocolate 
cigars for the small boy-gentlemen are used. There 
should be small In'bs at each place instead of napkins, 



204 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

and if possible the china should be the gaily decorated 
patterns which are brought on for children. 

The popping mottoes which are seen at all suppers 
for the youngsters are very nice here, and the caps will 
bo worn with almost as much joy as if it were all a 
novelty to the merrymakers. 

A CINDERELLA PARTY 

By Mabel Philpott 

A Cinderella dancing party may be made very 
enjoyable. The invitations might have a dainty French 
slipper painted in water-color in one corner, or simply 
the word "Cinderella/' After the guests assemble and 
before the dancing commences, let them understand 
thoroughly the hour to cease: 10, 11 or 12. If 
not too late for them, 12 would be appropriate. 
Have a clock with a loud, clear gong which all can 
hear, and the moment it strikes, all dancers must take 
part in the slipper hunt. For this buy a pair of doll 
slippers, and hide one slipper in one room, while the 
mate is hidden in another. Guests should separate, 
ladies taking one room, gentlemen another. The 
youth who finds the slipper should go to the other room 
and find the maiden who holds its mate, and to these 
lucky ones should be given prizes. This couple of 
course will be partners at the supper which follows. 
Among the rest distribute slippers cut from fancy stiff 
papers, only two of each kind being made. On one 
put this : 



PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS 205 

Ye prince, who hold this slipper in hand. 
Go make a search through this merry Id and, 
And find ye a maiden whose tiny shoe 
Is a mate to the one now held by you, 
And claim your Cinderella. 

On its mate put this verse: 

Ye Cinderella, who hold this shoe. 
Someone now is looking for you, 
So keep your slipper and patiently wait 
Till comes the prince who has found its mate, 
And claims his Cinderella. 

Distribute these among- the dancers, then serve 
refreshments. As far as 1 know this is original and 
will have at least the merit of being "something new." 

FOR CARD PARTIES 

A very pretty color scheme was carried out in 
serving the refreshments at a card party. After the 
game was finished, the guests retained their seats, dainty 
lace and embroidered cloths were spread, and a candle- 
stick bearing red, green or yellow candles, according to 
the color of the room, was placed on each table. In the 
green room delicious fruit salad was served in hollowed 
out green apples; a sandwich of brown bread, cut cres- 
cent shape, and a round sandwich of white bread with 
two olives were on the plate. In the red room the salad 
was served from rea apple shells. In the yellow room 



206 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

oranges hollowed out held the salad, salted nuts were 
passed, tutti frutti ice cream was served in tall glasses. 
The plates for the red room had a red tulip, the yellow 
tulips found their way to their proper room, while those 
in the green room found a spray of giant mignonette 
on their plates. This was a most clever conceit and 
really very little trouble. — E. H. G. 

At a recent card party the hostess puzzled her 
guests by providing beans as tallies, instead of paper 
stars and hearts. Five beans were awarded to the 
winners, at the end of each game, and one to the losers, 
each one being solemnly warned to keep his beans care- 
fully in a little bag provided for the purpose. There 
was much conjecture during the games as to the ulti- 
mate use of the beans, but no hint was given until, as 
the tallies for the last game were being distributed, a 
maid brought in dainty bills of fare bearing the 
following astonishing information: 

Sandwiches, 5 beans 

Coffee, 3 beans 

Almonds, 5 beans 

Olives, 5 beans 

lees, 10 beans 

Cakes, 5 beans 

Immediately there was anxious diving into bags to 
count up accumulated gains, and more anxious calcula- 
tions by those who were short of funds as to what their 



PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS 207 

store would buy. Some of the fortunate, who had seven 
beans more than the cost of the entire bill of fare, 
generously offered to share with their poorer neighbors, 
but when it was found that even that would not treat 
everyone to the entire menu, the hosts offered to 
advance, for forfeit, enough to make up each deficiency. 
This was accepted, and later on the forfeits were 
redeemed, which was amusement enough for the rest 
of the evening. — Mrs. W. H. MacColl. 



A PUMPKIN PARTY 

By Mrs. W. A. Harvey 

"Wo decorated square white cards with a huge 
pumpkin. The hostess who cannot draw can cut a very 
presentable pumpkin Prom orange paper and paste it 
on the cards. We wrote on each card: "The mam- 
moth pumpkin will ho on exhibition at Mrs. B/s from 
1 toll p. in. next Thursday. You are cordially invited 
1o come and guess its weight." We got the largest 
pumpkin we could find and a collection of medium- 
sized ones. We made a record of the weight, the 
length and the girth of the big pumpkin. We carefully 
cut it open lengthwise, scooped it out and counted the 
r(n'(\<. We then filled H with sawdust and buried 
in it inexpensive souvenirs-— orange-hued penwipers, 
needlebooks, pincushions, etc, wrapped in paper. We 
<ri the pumpkin on ;i mat of leaves on a small table 
ami labeled "hands off." Each guest was given a card 



208 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

with a pencil attached, to record his guesses. Pumpkin- 
shaped paper weights, inkstands, emery bags and blot- 
ters pleased the prize-winners. The rest of the evening 
was spent in carving jack-o'-lanterns from pumpkins. 
The guest may be required to write a recipe for pump- 
kin pie, which will bring forth some wonderful flights 
of fancy. The supper was served from pumpkin dishes. 
Select round, deep pumpkins with a stem, choosing 
those of a pretty color, any shape; saw off the tops 
even so they may be put back on the pumpkins as 
lids, scoop out and line with parchment paper. 

TALLY CARDS 

By A. J. L. 

Some of the prettiest of tally cards are the red silk 
pincushions made in the shape of hearts. Large white- 
headed pins are used for the counts. Then, something 
on the same idea, and nice for souvenirs afterward, are 
tiny scent bags. These came to my notice at a card 
party given by Princeton students. The bags were 
very effective in their orange and black satin, and they 
were fastened to black paper tallies by bunches of 
orange ribbon. Japanese fans witli strings hanging 
from them arc pretty. Big glass beads are strung on 
the strings for counts. For the woman who doesn't 
like to sew, but is quick with brush and pen, there 
are almost unlimited possibilities. Among these pieces 
of water color paper cut and colored to represent slices 
of watermelon are odd and effective. There are holes 



PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS 209 

punched in the paper through which ribbons bearing 
tiny black penny dolls, or pasteboard seeds, can be 
fastened, according to the makers taste. Then there 
are cards upon which clippings from magazines may 
be pasted. It is surprising what aid the advertising 
section lends for this purpose. A few lines added in 
ink make the little picture look almost like a pen and 
ink sketch. The birch bark tally is a pretty reminder 
of summer da} 7 s. If the bark prove unruly, moisten 
and press with a hot iron. Then cut it into hearts 
and clubs, and use an ordinary card punch on the 
tally the night of the card party. 

A HAYSEED CARNIVAL 
By D. A. W. 

A new form of the fashionable barn party which 
has been so popular during the past year or two is celled 
the hayseed carnival. It is the most informal function 
imaginable, as the invitations first of all go to show. 
These are written upon ruled paper and worded in the 
quaint phraseology and bad spelling which suggests 
Samantha Allen and Betsey Bobbett. Here is a short 
example : 

"Marietta Summer, she that was a Smith, wants all 
her friends and nabers to come to the old red barn next 
Thursday night for a reglar jollification. Every naber 
as isn't sick-a-hed will be looked for. 

"P. S. Please don't hev on your Sunday fixins." 

The sports, which old people as well as young will 
find it hard to resist, consist of a series of contests in 



2io THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

true country style. For the men there is a wood 
sawing contest, while the ladies pare potatoes or apples 
for a prize. Another sport in which both men and 
women join is match games of tit-tat-to on a blackboard. 
Husking corn, an old-fashioned spelling bee and a rous- 
ing Virginia reel are other features which make the 
rafters echo with fun. The refreshments are, of course, 
suited to the occasion. Wedges of apple pie, milk, 
doughnuts, cider, gingerbread and the like refresh the 
contestants when their labors are at an end. 

TABLEAUS 
By D. A. W. 

A party of girls summering on Long Island had 
great success with a vaudeville entertainment. The hit 
of the evening was a dream picture called "the reveries 
of a bachelor." The scene represented a bachelor's den. 
A man with pipe and book sat musing in an arm (.hair 
before the fire. After a. moment or two music began 
to play very softly and one by one the Reveries, always 
taking the form of pretty girls, drifted into the room. 
Each ghost disappeared after a moment or two to make 
room for another. The music was sometimes appro- 
priate to the picture. Annie Laurie was played as a 
lovely Scotch girl appeared before his chair. The Girl 
I Left Behind Me brought a charming maiden in the 
quaint dress of ''before the war" times. Other visions 
were The 'summer girl of 1902, The New York girl, 
The Gibson girl, The Stanlaws girl, Gibson's "widow" 
and The Quaker maid of Philadelphia. 



PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS 



211 




AN OLD-FASHIONED CASTER UTILIZED AS A FRUIT DISH 



A CHRYSANTHEMUM COTILLION 
By Mary Dawson 

Rooms and corridors were decorated with banks 
of chrysanthemums. Each of the young women invited 
came wearing a different shade of gown. Chrysanthe- 
mum shades only were worn, such as pink and white, 
dark and light yellow, and tints which deepened into 



212 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

or paled away into other tints as in the blossoms. 
Among the favors were shepherdess crooks, having 
bunches of chrysanthemums tied to the handles with 
streamers of ribbon; stickpins in the form of the flower 
of the evening ; bonbonmeres decorated with chrysan- 
themum designs and long-handled wicker baskets filled 
with the blooms. A lovely figure devised by the hostess 
was called the chrysanthemum arch. This war- formed 
by men and girls arranged in two lines facing each 
other and holding long-stemmed chrysanthemum^. 
Other couples then waltzed through the bower thus 
formed. A variation of the popular u egg figure" was 
formed by substituting chrysanthemum flowers for eggs 
upon the floor, the object being to dance between these 
flowers without disturbing any. Ice cream was served 
in the form of yellow, white and pink "mums." Cake 
was passed in lovely little boxes, each having a design 
of the flower on the cover. 

A WIGWAM DANCE 

By Mary Dawson 

The wooden platform erected for the dancing is 
draped and decorated to suggest the tepee. Blankets, bows 
and arrows, strings of beads, skin rugs, etc., are called 
into play ; care being taken not to cut off the air from 
the platform by the arrangement of these. A pretty 
background for the platform is formed of green boughs 
and vines. Then, scattered here and there about the 
grounds, are tiny wigwams, made from rawhides ar- 



PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS 213 

ranged over poles. The hides are painted in rude 
hieroglyphics or pictures and fringed at the edges. Each 
little wigwam contains some refreshment for the dance. 
For one dance the favors are bows and arrows, and a 
charming little figure follows in which all dance, holding 
these trophies. Long eagle feathers, made respectively 
from gold and silver enamel, are the gifts in another 
round. They are donned by the dancers and worn dur- 
ing the rest of the evening. Among the other things 
distributed are chamois or buckskin cushions painted or 
"pyrographed" in appropriate designs; little bright 
beaded articles, presumably "made by the Indians"' ; 
peace pipes, snowshoes, moccasins, wampum belts, pad- 
dles, fancy baskets and miniature toboggans. The pro- 
gram for the evening ends with a "great medicine 
dance." In this the men join hands and circle round 
the gilds, the girls afterward reversing things and 
dancing round the men. It is possible to serve ice 
cream from baskets of sweet grass and to have a table 
centerpiece for the supper in the form of a birch bark- 
canoe filled with water lilies. Hatchet bonbonnieres 
filled with sweets are appropriate. 

FEBRUARY PARTIES 
By Mary Dawson 

All the 3 r oung unmarried folk are sure to welcome 
the idea of a partner's party, one of the latest in home 
entertaining. It -affords an opportunity for any young 



2i 4 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

man who feels attracted to a girl in the party to show 
his devotion by assisting her to win the ladies' game. 
At the same time the girl who desires to help any young 
man onward to the gentlemen's trophy may bend all 
her energies in that direction. 

The game is progressive. Six or more tables — the 
number of these varying according to the number of 
guests — are arranged as for any ordinary card function. 
Any game from jackstraws to whist can be played at 
the tables. A different one at each table is best. Pro- 
vide tallies for all the company. Lots are drawn before 
the opening of the game to decide where each competitor 
shall sit. One table should be arranged for four persons. 
Games are begun and finished by the ringing of a bell. 
Each person plays for himself, as single handed games 
are "required by the constitution/' At the end of each 
game the girl and man who have won the most points 
are declared partners. These two write their names on 
each other's cards and progress to the next table. No 
stars are used on the tallies, and the sole idea of the 
progression is to become partners as many times as pos- 
sible with the same person. 

The man and woman who at the end of the rounds 
have written their names oftenest on each other's cards 
are declared victorious. The young man carries off the 
gentlemen's prize, while the ladies' honors are bestowed 
upon the lucky girl. Much fun is added by choosing 
prizes of a sentimental character. The game is fol- 
lowed by a supper to which the guests walk in a pro- 
cession, led by the prize-winning partners. Each lady 



PARTIES FOR GROWN-UPS 215 

is placed at table beside the gentleman with whom she 
was oftenest joined in partnership. 

A CIVIC EVENING 

A bright New York girl gave a pleasant little en- 
tertainment not long ago which she christened a "civic 
party." Being a clever nser of the kodak, she had in hand 
fifty views of New York city, all original work. The 
collection included public squares, civic buildings, libra- 
ries, banks, well-known corners of streets down town, the 
various park entrances, the Battery and Castle Garden, 
churches, philanthropic institutions. Each of the views 
was mounted upon a gray card and numbered. Pencils 
and paper were distributed and guests were asked to 
write down the name of each view as they supposed 
it to be. 

Although all of the players were residents of New 
York or visitors from neighboring cities thoroughly 
familiar with it, the person winning the highest score did 
not name correctly more than half the views. Nor was 
this the fault of the photographs themselves, which were 
exceptionally clear and true. It was simply evidence of 
the well-known fact that the average citizen is capable 
of living years in a town without observing it carefully. 

Try it, substituting your own town or the city near- 
est you. If you are not a photographer get twenty-five 
or fifty views from your book dealer or from magazines 
and newspapers. ^The names can easily be cut away and 
the photos mounted, numbered, etc. 



WEDDING PARTIES 



WEDDING PARTIES 

A BRIDESMAIDS' TEA 

By Marjorie March 

FASHION dictates that the bride shall give, a gift 
to her bridesmaids. The groom gives a fare- 
well dinner to his ushers the night before the 
wedding; why not forestall their good time by giving 
a bridesmaids' tea in the afternoon? It can be made 
still more charming, an introduction to the wedding 
day, as it were, by the sending out of a few dainty 
notes by the bride herself to the one that is sure to 
obey her demands and to his friends, asking them to 
drop in for a cup of tea at 5 o'clock. Then for a 
few moments toward the end of the afternoon the 
bridesmaids and ushers can both pay homage to the 
queen of the morrow and to one another. 

If the house is to be decorated the next day for 
the reception, it would of course be folly to have elab- 
orate preparations; but gre'at bowls of roses are simple 
in effect and require little arrangement. The present 
room can be arranged to be open so that the bridesmaids 
and ushers may be the first to view the gifts. As the 
whole affair should be informal to be enjoyable, the 
bride should be dressed in simple white, a rose in her 
hair and a few roses at her belt. Her mother should 
help her receive the few guests, and when all have 



220 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

arrived the tea should he served. Tea, iced and hot, 
chocolate, salad sandwiches, ices and cakes are what the 
occasion demands. If the grounds about the house 
are accessible it is a pretty idea to have the tea spread 
on a table on the lawn. The most interesting feature 
of the afternoon to the bridesmaids will be the receiv- 
ing of their gifts. A pin is a very usual gift, and these 
can be pinned to the ribbon bows that tie a bunch 
of swaying roses that are placed at each bridesmaid's 
place. These bows of ribbon should be blue, for the 
bride must wear the traditional "something old, some- 
thing new, something borrowed and something blue," 
and the setting of the tea table can carry out the same 
symbolical idea very easily. A good deal of fun can 
be occasioned by the guessing which article on the tea 
table is the borrowed one. The whole afternoon will be 
in a way a quiet, pleasant way of saying good-bye to 
the maid who to-morrow will become a new self, so 
there is little to suggest in the way of entertainment. 
When a dozen people get together who are friends and 
have real feeling in their hearts, there will be no lack 
of spontaneous merriment, and if even that joy has 
its note of sadness, so much the better. 

A HAUSFRAU LUNCHEON 
By Mary Dawson 

One of the June brides who has returned from her 
wedding tour and gone to housekeeping had a novel 
luncheon given her the other day. It was called a 



WEDDING PARTIES 



hausfrau luncheon. Table setting, favors, et cetera, were 
all suggestive of the future good housekeeping. Instead 
of having a formal floral centerpiece, the table was dec- 
orated with little wooden tubs from the toy shop filled 
with water and having water lilies floating in them. 
The place cards, when examined, proved to be little 
autograph cook books with the names of guests written 
upon the covers. The bonbonnieres were market baskets 
filled with candies, and instead of a corsage bouquet each 
cover had a tiny feather duster tied with a knot of 
ribbon. Each little detail was suggestive in some way 
of the central idea. The result was a piquante little 
table. " 

A GOLDEN WEDDING 
By K. C. H. 

My parents' golden wedding anniversary occurring 
in August, I decided to celebrate by entertaining in their 
honor. "Our folks" are the kind of self-sacrificing old 
people who think that whatever is done for them is 
"too much trouble/' so the affair was kept a secret from 
them. Our home was Larger and better arranged, besides, 
[ could entertain much more easily in my own home. 
1 was doing my own work, my baby daughter was in her 
troublesome "second summer," and my trusted "better 
half unavoidably absent; still, in spite of all these draw- 
backs, without a cent's expense (except for material) 
I entertained forty guests very pleasantly, and gave my 
dear old folks p dainty and agreeable surprise, that will 
give them pleasant memories until "memory is no more." 



222 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

The invitations were written in gold ink, and read 
thus: 

Mrs. Blank — 
At home, three to five p. m. 
In honor of Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Chapin. 

Aug. 17, 1851— Aug. 17, 1901. 

I don't know whether this was according to form 
or not, but the invitations looked very pretty. They 
were simply my calling cards, and saved considerable 
time. The house was put in order, the baking done, 
and such decorations as I could muster were put in 
place. By chance I had a bolt of rich yellow crepe 
paper, which I draped on mantels, etc. Yellow asters 
and nasturtiums were the flowers used, and most beau- 
tiful they looked, drooping over slender vases, or bright- 
ening a bank of green. Having only what my garden 
afforded, the supply was, of course, limited. 

One of the decorative schemes I invented, and it 
proved a taking feature. In a secluded corner of the 
dining room I placed a small square table. On this I 
placed a large white, porcelain lined kettle. Around 
this I piled a few stones, green with moss, while a 
great quantity of asparagus was used to bank up around 
the kettle. A potted fern appeared to be growing just 
beside this mock spring. A friend gave me an old- 
fashioned gourd; this floated on the "spring," which 
was filled with fine lemon-orange punch, ice cold, and 
most refreshing. All the guests, except some relatives 
cf the family, were old people, most of whom had knelt 



WEDDING PARTIES 223 

by cool Xew England springs in their youth, and this 
reminder of bygone days was quite effective. One old 
lady cried, saying that reminded her more of her "old 
New England home than anything else she had seen 
in Kansas.'' When the guests, old neighbors and fellow- 
pioneers of my parents, arrived, a carriage was sent to 
bring the aged bride and groom to my house "for 
dinner,'' as per arrangement. 

Such a jolly company ! A wonderful sadness came 
over me, seeing the aged and infirm putting aside the 
tales and memories of their strife and sorrows in this 
new land and recalling early pleasant memories and 
experiences. 1 had to put this feeling aside, however, 
and be a "smiling hostess." I have attended many 
gatherings, but never one of such genuine good feeling 
and real enjoyment. Each one seemed to feel that it 
was a gala day, and that nothing on his part must mar 
the beauty of it. 

Refreshments were served on the lawn, consisting 
of ice cream and cake in considerable variety, the rich 
gold cake being most prominent. Here the speeches of 
congratulation were made and the gifts presented. 

THE CELEBRATION OF WEDDING 
ANNIVERSARIES 

By Marjory Pelton 

One notices more and more in this country the 
fashion grow for celebrating the anniversary of a 
wedding. The observance of a diamond wedding, when 



224 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

two people have traveled life's road together for seventv- 
five years, has occurred at rare intervals, and has been 
the subject of national interest. Sometimes the dia- 
mond wedding is celebrated after sixty years of married 
life. That is incorrect, still it does happen, as if the 
aged couple had small hope of seeing the real diamond 
wedding. The golden wedding, a celebration of fifty 
years' happiness, is so frequent an occurrence that it 
speaks well for American longevity and the domestic 
peace of our nation. The earlier celebrations — the 
silver wedding to commemorate twenty-five years of 
married life, the china wedding for twenty years, the 
crystal wedding for fifteen years, the tin wedding for 
ten years, and the wooden wedding for five years — are 
daily occurrences everywhere. 

There is another, the paper wedding, the first 
anniversary of a wedding day, which is occasionally 
observed among a group of young folks, who turn it 
into a merry-making. They come adorned with gro- 
tesque paper caps extracted from motto crackers and 
sometimes in entire costumes evolved from gorgeous 
crepe paper. The paper wedding offers an excellent 
chance for a masquerade part}', when paper of all sorts 
may be utilized, from pert, pretty Yum- Yum with a 
Japanese parasol to a frolicsome youth representing the 
yellow kid in an impromptu suit made from yellow 
journals. There is the greatest latitude when it comes 
to gifts. The offering may be a dainty box of stationery 
or a book in the most artistic of bindings. For table 
decorations paper can be used lavishly, with paper table 



WEDDING PARTIES 225 

napkins, and even one of those beautiful tablecloths in 
paper which can be found in Japanese stores. Globes 
for gas and electricity, or lamps, can revel for thai one 
night in wonderful paper shades, and where an artistic 
taste would demand flowers and wreathings of smilax 
or the delicate asparagus vines, it yields to the harmony 
of things and substitutes paper blossoms as true to 
nature as they can be found, with Japanese lanterns and 
lengths of paper ribbon for draping. If the decorator 
has fine taste, a house can be made really charming 
with paper decorations, if they are kept in delicate 
colors which harmonize. At the paper wedding, as in 
all other celebrations, the bride ought to wear her 
wedding gown, and after the passing of only twelve 
months, it is possible for her to be surrounded by her 
bridesmaids in their year-old frocks. 

The young couple who, after five years' life 
together, can celebrate the wooden wedding in the sum- 
mer and in the country can turn it into a delightful 
rustic affair. It may take the form of a picnic or 
evening lawn party. Birch bark can be utilized for 
writing invitations, for guest cards, menus and for the 
cover of a book in which the guests may write their 
names. Do not. ruin the effect of an outdoor affair by 
spreading a tablecloth and using china or glass. The 
charm to a boarding school girl of a pound party is 
eating off a bare tabic and wooden plates. At a bake- 
shop purchase a liberal supply of" thin wooden plates, 
and a rummage among friends ought to provide plenty 
of old-fashioned steel knives and forks with wooden 



226 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

handles. Serve everything on wood in chopping bowls, 
wooden trenchers, or in the thin, deep wooden trays in 
which a grocer sends lard or butter home. Let carving 
be done with wooden-handled knives, and serving be 
done with wooden spoons or forks, such as are seen 
accompanying a salad. Cups and saucers or tumblers 
and silver tea spoons are the only things which may have 
to be substituted for anything less rustic. Simply keep 
everything wooden as far as it is possible, except in 
guests. One "wooden" guest would spoil the jollity of 
a greenwoods feast. Wooden wedding gifts are inde- 
scribable in variety. There are writing desks, lead 
pencils, rocking chairs, potato mashers, or a clothes- 
horse. 

Occasionally, when the mistress of a home has a 
spacious, spotless, well-appointed kitchen, she sets the 
table for the tin wedding supper there and gives the 
affair an old-fashioned spirit, such as one sees at a 
real country Thanksgiving. J 1' you celebrate in this 
style, serve old-style dishes — beans and brown bread, 
doughnuts, pie of every sort, eider, raised cake, pickles, 
buckwheat cakes with maple syrup, lifted straight from 
the stove to the table, baked apples and coffee. Set 
style wholly aside for once. Serve the food on bright 
tin pie plates, the coffee in a tin pot, pouring it in tin 
mugs. Tin spoons and tin forks are the proper thing. 
Light the table with candles, set in tin candlesticks, 
and let the centerpiece be old-fashioned flowers set in a 
large tin pan. A dance to the rollicking old tunes that 
can be evoked by a country tiddler from his treasured 



WEDDING PARTIES 227 

violin, may round out a merry evening, with old country 
games interspersed between the Virginia reel and Thread 
the Needle. When it comes to the question of gifts 
for a tin wedding, my advice is to spend fifteen minutes 
in some big«ten-cent store. 

The crvstal wedding suggests that the married 
couple are growing mature and leaving frolic and kiss- 
ing games and dancing to a household of young folks. 
The crystal wedding is a parlor and dining room affair, 
where conventionality rules the day. The wedding 
gown may be donned again if it fits, hut alas! as May 
Irwin sings in that heart-breaking ditty of hers: 

"The delicate waist of a day that is dead 
Will never come back to me."' 

There will probably be throngs of guests, handshaking, 
a flower adorned tea table, music, chatter and an array 
of cut glass that will gladden the heart of a housewife. 
The china wedding may be conventional or not, as 
one desires to make it. The most delightful affair of 
this sort I ever attended was given by the mistress of 
an old-fashioned house, where we gathered for the 
afternoon with our sewing. There was gossip such as 
women love while the needle flies. Then there was an 
old-fashioned tea with delicious old-fashioned food, and 
we ate from rare china that one hundred and twenty 
years ago was a wedding present to our hostess's great- 
grandmother. Tt was a restful, pleasant, memorable 
party. Later, when the lamps were lit, our husbands 



228 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

arrived and cards were played, old songs were sung and 
old days recalled. Before leave-taking, we drank cider 
and ate loaf cake made from a recipe of fifty years ago. 
The silver wedding means often a large family 
gathering, with one or two sweet grandchildren added 
to the circle, a silvering touch in the hair, hopes for the 
future and a look back on the joys and sorrows of 
twenty-five years. There is a table of gifts, which 
brings back the memory of the first wedding day, and 
the genial heartfelt wishes of long-tried friends. About 
the golden wedding there is a certain pathos. Amid 
ail the festivity, in the gathering of children, grand- 
children, perhaps even great-grandchildren, and the 
offering of gifts, which cannot be bought for a trifle as 
in the merry-making days of youth — the hearts of the 
old bride and groom go back to the wedding day of 
fifty years ago, to the beloved ones who stood beside 
them ; to the old home, to youthful hopes and — all that 
lias come between. Then the eyes grow dim with tears. 
The golden wedding is the last milestone passed in the 
path which has been trodden so long together. 



HALLOWEEN PARTIES 



HALLOWEEN PARTIES 

HALLOWEEN FROLICS 

By Mary Dawson 

A HALLOWEEN entertainment on new and lively 
lines is a future party. The games, as sports for 
the fateful eve should, unveil the future. The 
mysterious character of the festival is carefully pre- 
served, but the divination is carried out in novel and 
unexpected ways. For example, one good feature is 
known as the book of fate. This is an enormous volume 
made of two dozen sheets of wrapping paper folded in 
half. The cover is of pasteboard decorated with India 
ink witches or goblins holding will-o'-the-wisp lanterns. 
The title, "Book of Fate," appears on the cover in 
black lettering. Each sheet has written upon it one 
letter of the alphabet, not arranged in rotation, hut 
written at haphazard. Any letter may occur two 01 
three times, if desired. The book, if consulted on 
Halloween, will reveal the initials of the person one is 
to marry. To consult it the fate reader must be blind- 
folded ami a wand or divining rod be placed in his 
hand. With the rod he turns over the pages of the 
book. He turns twice only. The letters upon the 
pages turned are the characters ho seeks. From them 
the name of the future companion must be guessed. 

Then there is the Halloween pie, which is great 
fun, and not generally known. This can be played in 



232 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

two ways. For the first take a tub or basin and fill it 
with sawdust. Bury in the sawdust a number of slips 
of paper, each slip having written upon it a line of 
doggerel verse somewhat on the following order : 

"Curly hair. Eyes blue. Eoman nose. Tall and 
true." 

"Small. Blond. Merry eyes. Inclined to plump- 
ness. Witty. Wise." 

"Tall. Dark. Somewhat sedate. Lovely lashes. 
True life mate.* 5 

There should be just as many slips in the pie as 
there are guests in the drawing room, and all rhymes 
should be equally applicable to either sex. The pan is 
covered with a shelving pasteboard crust tinted to make 
it resemble nicely browned pastry. Each guest in turn 
dips out for himself a huge spoonful of the pie. The 
description found in it is that of the future mate. 

Another good game results if the pie is differently 
filled. For this tuck away in it a number of objects 
of many kinds and have some bright man or girl to 
act as fate interpreter. Each player spoons up a trifle 
for himself out of the pie, and the interpreter imme- 
diately explains its significance. The fun lies in the 
absurd interpretations, which are of course made to 
fit the case, and the little good-humored sallies to which 
the fate seeker exposes himself. 

A NUTTING PARTY 

The half dozen games on which a nutting party 
is founded can be arranged with a very trifling expendi- 



HALLOWEEN PARTIES 233 

ture of time and labor. The opening game goes to 
decide the question of whether or not each player is 
destined to marry. This is played by making a little 
heap of nuts in some portion of the parlor and giving 
your guests each a broad-bladed kitchen knife. To dis- 
cover his fate he must pick up one of the nuts upon 
the knife and run around the room with it so balanced. 
Two minutes is allowed for this feat. If he fails to get 
the nut on the blade, or if it tumbles in the progress 
round the room, the one thus failing will never marry. 
To provide for each member of the party a descrip- 
tion of the man or woman to come most prominently 
into his or her life, hide here and there around the 
room a number of nuts of different sorts. The hiding 
should be done before the company arrives. Each man 
or girl is told to look about the room for a nut. But 
instead of trying to discover and collect as many of 
these nuts as possible, as in a peanut search, each person 
stops looking after discovering his or her first nut. This 
nut will give the character of the husband or wife-to-be. 
The hostess acts as interpreter, reading the signs of the 
shell, the size and so on. Tims the girl who finds a 
black walnut will marry a man of good nature, but 
uncultivated and decidedly rough in exterior. He will 
be large, dark, unconventional and totally unsuited to 
the drawing room. The man who finds a hazel nut 
may *be on the lookout for a tiny woman, round of 
figure, with brown hair and eyes. She will be smooth, 
gentle, without great strength of mind, but agreeable, 
cultivated and so" on. 



234 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



Another pretty feature for a nutting party is the 
nut tree. A small bush is used for the tree. From its 
branches hang a number of gilded walnut shells. Each 
shell has been split with a sharp knife, the meats removed 
and a humorous fortune placed inside, after which the 
shells are glued together. Players are blindfolded in 
turn and given a pair of scissors. Each man or girl 
clips a nut from the tree. The shell when broken 
reveals the future, which may be expressed in verse. 

FISHING FOR FATE 

A good way to play this game is over a high screen. 
On one side of the screen, hidden from view, sits the 
hostess, with a huge baskeiTul of odds and ends which 
may be humorously interpreted into fates. On the other 
side of the screen stand the players, each armed with 
a fishing pole constructed simply of a cane and a yard 
of two of ribbon. The players take turns in casting 
lines over the screen, and each as he casts is obliged 
to sa} T what he desires to draw up. Thus he may say: 
"I wish to know my state in life, whether married or 
single." Or "I wish to ascertain the personality of 
my future mate." The voice and the wish expressed 
both act as prompters to the hostess. By them she is 
able to tell whether the line belongs to a man or a 
woman and to make some absurd reply to the question. 
She deftly attaches an appropriate object to the ribbon 
and gives a little twitch which stands for a bite. 

As a sample of the fateful articles to be pulled up, 
we will say that the young man who wishes to ascertain 



HALLOWEEN PARTIES 235 

the personality of his bride-to-be may draw up a wax 
doll. This shows conclusively that he will fall victim 
to a girl of pretty face but not distinguished by mental 
capacity. If a man draws up a needlebook or a spray 
of bachelor's buttons he will of course remain a bachelor. 
The girl who pulls up a thimble is destined to old maid- 
hood. She who draws up a bag tilled with paper money 
will marry a rich man or receive a legacy. An empty 
pocketbook with a rose in it shows for the recipient a 
future of happiness and poverty. 

To find tnd the length of time which will elapse 
before each member of the party is engaged, twelve 
candles, one for each month in the year, are lighted 
and arranged upon a table or the edge of the piano. 
Each young person is blindfolded in turn and told to 
blow out .the candles. Three minutes is allotted for 
performing this teat. The number of candles remain- 
ing lighted when the three minutes have elapsed repre- 
sents the number of months which are to intervene 
before the engagement takes place. If any man or girl 
fails to blow out a candle he or she will surely be 
bachelor or old maid. The girls who are thus destined 
to single blessedness can receive a match safe or other 
ornament in the form of a tabby, accompanied by Pope's 
apt and familiar couplet: 

"How happy is the lonely vestal's lot. 
The world forgetting, by the world forgot." 

The doomed bachelor is given a "Hussif," to aid, 
it is explained, in sewing on his buttons. 



236 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



A HALLOWEEN PARTY 

By Augusta Kortrecht 

The invitation I received was a tiny card with 
quaint lettering: "Come on Witch Xight to ye House 
at ye Sign of Ye Black Cat"; and in one corner the 
hour and date, and the address of -my. hostess. 

Five or six of us went in a body, and after we turned 
into Lindsay street, there was no missing the house we 
sought, for the sign of the black cat was to he seen afar 
off. It had heen made of a big square pasteboard bonnet 
box ; queer cat shapes were drawn in pencil on each of 
the four sides, then cut out with a sharp knife, and 
the openings pasted over with tissue paper from the 
inside. With a strong candle burning inside, the cats 
showed vaguely in the clever homemade lantern. The 
hostess told me afterward that she had experimented 
with black paper but had not found it thin enough to 
show the light through, and that therefore these cats 
wore green and yellow. Each gate post bore one of these 
lanterns, while the front porch was hung witli jack-o'- 
lanterns, made from pumpkins, of course. 

The large transom of the front door had a curiously 
contorted cat cut from black paper or calico, and pasted 
on. The hall was well lighted to show this up to the 
guests approaching along the walk ; but the rooms them- 
selves were all in half dark, being illuminated only by 
lanterns like those on the gate posts. 
y^\ We wore greeted by two weird figures draped in 
/white, and were shown to the dressing rooms and invited 



HALLOWEEN PARTIEC 237 

to deck ourselves in sheets and pillowcases. The hostess, 
the white figure which went with the ladies, showed us 
how to wrap the sheets around us and fasten them firmly 
with pins and pieces of tape, so that we were covered 
and yet had our arms- somewhat free. "White masks 
hid our faces, and pillowcases were fastened on top of 
our heads and left hanging down at the back. The white 
curtains of the dressing room were hung with bats, cut 
from black calico, and we were told to pin one of these 
on each of our sheets to distinguish us from the men, 
whom we found draped as ourselves, but wearing black 
snakes wriggling down their fronts. 

It was very weird when we gathered again in the 
mm drawing room. The candles in the lanterns gave 
just sufficient light to show the ghost-like forms and 
the white hangings which were everywhere decorated 
with black calico snakes, lizards, bats, frogs, owls and 
cats. There were queer stuffed birds about in the cor- 
ners; and live black cats of various sizes glided in and 
out, rubbing themselves against the white-robed guests. 

Dancing created much merriment for a time, the 
couples trying to discover each other's identity, and 
having all they could do to manage their flowing dra- 
pery. In the rest time the folding doors suddenly flew 
open, and a strange sight presented itself. The room 
beyond was inky black except for the red light burning 
before a little tent. (Red fire burning in a tin pan; 
can be bought at any fireworks dealer's.) The tent was 
open, and inside it sat a witch, high red hat, broomstick 
and all. In front of her on the ground was an enormous 



238 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

pumpkin, scooped out and filled with tiny pumpkins, the 
latter made of cotton covered over with yellow crepe 
] taper and tied with baby ribbon, light green for ladies, 
dark green for men. The witch chanted out an invi- 
tation to us, and we went in in turn and received a little 
pumpkin, she bestowing each one with muttered incan- 
tations. 

Then the door shut the witch from view, the lights 
went up in the drawing room, and we had a hilarious 
time opening the pumpkins and examining our fortunes: / 
Mine had a pair of tiny doll overshoes, and the verse: 

"Your hands will play the typewriter and your dainty 

feet 
• Will daily need protection from the rain and slush 
and sleet." 
The hostess said that with a little ingenuity any 
nu ml xt of these verses and favors could be made. Some 
of the funniest were these: 

A tiny United States flag for a lady: 
"You will be the president's wife, 
And in "Washington lead a gay life." 

A thimble for a lady: 

"Whether in single or married bliss, 
Sewing's your fortune — so please take this." 

A little bunch of scarlet silk floss tied with a blue 
ribbon, for a man : 

"This tress was cul from the dainty head 
Of the verv lady vou will wed." 



HALLOWEEN PARTIES 239 

i — ~ 

A perm}" for a man: 

"listen well to the words of the witch : 
'Earn plenty of money and yon 11 be rich/ " 

A brass button for a man : 

'"You'll both a soldier and sailor be, 
And gallantly fight on the dark blue sea/' 

After the fortunes were all examined we were con- 
ducted once more to the dressing rooms and the sheets 
and other draperies removed, and then we went in to 
supper. This was a bounteous feast of the good things 
of the season: the fall fruits, popcorn, gingerbread and 
cider. A wooden bow] of nuts was placed at each plate, 
with a pair of crackers convenient. Suddenly there 
was a little shriek of surprise; one girl had opened an 
English walnut and found, instead of a kernel, one of 
the funny and uncanny worms which the Japanese cut 
out of vegetable ivory. They are wriggly tilings, and 
tin 1 shock was great. Most of the nuts were normal, but 
there were enough bewitched ones to keep the excite- 
ment high. One had a tiny black doll not an inch long; 
some had bits of candy: some brass rings with glass 
stones. These nuts were all English walnuts, and the 
hostess told me she had carefully cut them in half with 
a sharp knife, removed the kernel, put in the prize, and 
glued the shells together again so that the opening could 
not be detected. 

Finally T got a nut witli nothing but a bit of folded 
paper in it. On it was written : "Don't tell the others." 
Then came some queer characters which I decided to be 



2 4 o THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

words written backward, and when I slipped quietly oil; 
to the mirror in the dressing room I made them out to 
be: "Go on the midnight stroke and dig under the 
piano for a mighty prize." The backward writing is 
done this way: Lay a caihon paper on the table dupli- 
cating side up, then two pieces of thin white paper on 
top and write with a hard pencil on the top piece. This 
will leave the words Avritten backward on the under 
paper. 

It was still half an hour before midnight, and I 
kept wondering how I was to dig under the piano. I 
carefully examined the spot specified, without saying 
anything about it, but thought it unwise to call for a 
spade and go to work on the hard wood floor. 

We played all the time-honored Halloween games 
and tricks, and all the time I was thinking but could 
come to no conclusion. As the clock struck 12 we were 
all in the front hall, and what was my surprise to see 
the whole party rush to the drawing room and to the 
piano. Every last one had had a paper with the same 
directions, and each one thought the secret his alone. 
When the first astonishment was over, we saw that a 
number of little pails and shovels had been placed on 
a white cloth spread beneath the piano, and amid the 
1 i lighter and good-natured pushing we crept under and 
dug our prizes out of the soft sand. They wore all just 
alike favors to take homo — paper bonbonnieres shaped 
Jik<' pumpkins. 

Soon after wo were on our way home, voting the 
party the very liveliest and best we had ever attended. 



HALLOWEEN PARTIES 241 



A REAL HALLOWEEN 

If possible, hold the Halloween festivities in a barn 
or large kitchen, in the latter case setting the table and 
having certain of the games there. On All Saints' day, 
two hundred years ago, every household built its bonfire 
at nightfall. They made a girdle of flame about the 
hills of Scotland. Indoors the house was lighted by 
torches and lanterns till midnight, when the fairies 
were supposed to be abroad. Strange methods of divi- 
nation were resorted to by young and old. 

Keep constantly in mind that the ancient object 
of the day was the peering into the future. If possible, 
have a bonfire. Material may be hoarded a few weeks 
ahead. Set a few small boys to the blissful job of piling 
on fresh fuel. Deck the walls of the barn or kitchen 
with branches of spruce and pine, and among the in 
hang on strong wire rods a splendid array of jack-o'- 
lanterns or pumpkin lanterns. If possible, contrive 
somewhere about the house a dimly-lit cozy corner or 
impromptu booth where a woman versed in palmistry 
may tell of the future and hint at the past. In every 
fireplace light a crackling wood fire, and in the kitchen 
have ready the properties necessary for a real Halloween : 
baskets of apples, halls of yarn, corn ready for the 
popper, and a hoard of nuts. 

There are so many time-honored games for Hallow- 
een that they can scarcely be crowded into one evening's 
entertainment. Xobody knows how ancient is the game 
of bobbing for apples, but it certainly never grows old. 



242 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

Fill a tub nearly to the brim with water and into it put 
a dozen ruddy apples. Place in the heart of four apples 
a ring, a ten-cent piece, a thimble and a button. Keplace 
neatly the apple cube which has been cut out for this 
admission, and the enthusiasm of the bobbers will be 
heartier with the knowledge of the lottery. The game 
may be varied for the other guests by holding a fork- 
between the teeth, clasping the hands behind the back, 
trying to pierce an apple by dropping the fork. Apples 
may be utilized in another way by tying one to a string, 
hanging it in a doorway, and still with the hands behind 
the back trying to take a bite from it. Tt is so difficult 
a "stunt" that it is safe to offer a few prizes to the guests 
who succeed. Long apple parings tossed over ibe shoul- 
der generally will curl into some shape which predicts 
the initials of the future lover. 

Imagination has full play when the girls search 
for the profession of the man they will marry by gazing 
at the white of an egg dropped in a glass of water. The 
egg will take very queer forms, and it is not hard to 
picture a ship, a church, an easel, a railroad train, a 
bridge, or a printing press. There is the perilous custom 
of following through a dark cellar a ball of yarn, which 
will lead to somebody's lover. The end may be satisfying 
enough to make up for the trip. In a room as dark as 
twilight, a girl may comb her hair and eat an apple 
before a mirror with a sweet certainty that out of the 
darkness will steal a reflection of the man she loves. 

The young men can name and roast chestnuts for 
the girls around whom fancy hovers. If a chestnut 



HALLOWEEN PARTIES 243 

should explode and jump from the hot coals, that girl 
had better be left to single blessedness: it is the girl 
whose chestnut roasts quietly and steadily who will make 
married life harmonious. If a sufficient number of 
cabbage stalks can be procured and planted a few days 
before Halloween, the pulling of them when blindfolded 
provides a lively half-hour's fun. A "kale stock" is 
large in prophecy. If it pulls hard, the lover will be 
hard to win, and courtship and married life may not 
be wholly happiness; if easily, the future is serene 
enough. The shape and size of the kale stock prophesy 
the figure of the future husband or wife, and if there is 
plenty of earth about the roots it means riches. A 
candle may be selected and named for as many sweet- 
hearts as one possesses — a Halloween guest, maid or 
man, is supposed to have a lively preference for several. 
Set the candles lighted in an open window. The one 
which longest resists the gusts of wind denotes the lover 
who till death will remain faithful. The Scotch test 
called "luggies" is a favorite in all Halloween games. 
Beside the hearth are placed three basins ; one has clean 
water in it, another muddy water, the third is empty. 
The youths who would know their fate are led blind- 
folded to the table groping for the basin, dipping their 
hands in the first one they reach. If it is the clean 
water, the future bride or groom will be young and 
handsome; the muddy water tells of a wedding with a 
widow or widower, none too youthful or attractive; the 
empty basin foretells single blessedness. 

The American palate takes none too kindly to 



244 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



;is, sowens, cock-a-leekie or oat cake, so a good sub- 
stitute would be a hearty country supper served around 
the kitchen table. The fall fruits will provide a center- 
piece of rare coloring. Cut a great pumpkin into basket 
shape and scoop out the inside. Into the shell heap rosy 
apples, green and purple grapes, pears, oranges and 
bananas. One may choose an excellent menu from 
brown bread and baked beans, cold turkey, chicken pie, 
fried sausages with hot buckwheats, head cheese, cold 
ham or corned beef hash for a first course. Pumpkin 
pie, apple pie, doughnuts, waffles and maple syrup, baked 
apples and cream, old-fashioned raised cake, gingerbread, 
cookies or some puddings, such as brown betty or pan 
dowdy, will fill in the sweet course. Cider and coffee 
would be suitable for liquid refreshments. Plenty of 
nuts served in a wooden chopping bowl may be handed 
around with the fruit to "top off with" as in real coun- 
try hospitality. 

The fun of a Halloween entertainment may be 
-largely enhanced by place cards at the supper table. 
These ought of course to deal with games of fortune and 
that gazing into the future which belongs to All Saints' 
day. The most effective thing would be ragged edged, 
rather rough cards. Keep the decorations in strong 
black and white effects, using dense India ink as a 
medium; it flows admirably from the pen and works 
well with a brush. The range of decorations is wide ; you 
may have witches riding on broomsticks, the black cat, 
blinking owls or flitting bats, four-leaved clovers, wish- 
bones or the new moon for luck — indeed, anything that 



HALLOWEEN PARTIES 245 

signifies portents and fortune, whether good or bad. A 
quotation adds largely to the merit of the occasion. To 
save searching, a number of quotations are here appended 
suitable for a Halloween party. By the way, Shakes- 
peare will be found rich in sayings of weird and ghost- 
like nature ; Macbeth, Hamlet, and Eomeo and Juliet 
being especialty good hunting grounds. Here are some 
culled from various sources : 

"The iron tongue of midnight hath told twelve." 

"If you had any eye behind you, you might see more 
detraction at your heels than fortunes before you." 

"I can call spirits from the vasty deep/' 

"If you can look into the seeds of time, 
And say which grain will grow and which will not." 

"It was the owl that shrieked, the fatal bellman 
Which gives the stern'st good-night." 

"There's husbandry in heaven, 
Their candles are all out/' 

"There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, 
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy." 

"Xo witch hath power to charm, 
So hallowed and so gracious is this time." 



246 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

"How now, you secret, black and midnight hags, 
What is't you do?" 

"Show his eyes and grieve his heart, 
Come like shadows, so depart." 

"The owl, for all las feathers, was aeold." 

"The bat takes airy rounds on leathern wings, 
And the hoarse owl his wofid dirges sings." 

" 'Tis the witching hour of night, 
And the stars they glisten, glisten 
Seeming with bright eyes to listen. 
For what listen they?" 

"A farmer traveling with his load. 
Picked up a horseshoe on the road, 
And nailed it fast to his barn door 
That hick might down upon him pour/ 3 

"Some there he that shadows kiss; 
Such have hut a shadow's bliss." 

"Some have mistaken blocks and posts 
For specters, apparitions, ghosts. 
With saucer eyes and horns." 

"O heavens, that one might read the book of fate 
And see the revolutions of the times." 



HALLOWEEN PARTIES 2^7 

"Oh, could we Jit'i the future's Bable shroud !" 

"Fortune is merry, 
And in this mood will give us anything." 

" 'Tis the sunset of life gives me mystical lore, 
And coming events cast their shadows before.'' 

"This day we fashion Destiny, our web of Fate we spin." 

"Who can answer where any road leads to?" 

"There swims no goose so gray 
But soon or late 
She finds some honest gander 
For her mate." 

"This is the fairy land, spite of spites, 
We talk with goblins, owls and elvish sprites." 

A HALLOWEEN COBWEB PARTY 
By M. D 

A Philadelphia girl had an inspiration for her 
October 31 party. This was a cobweb party, changed 
to fit the requirements of Halloween. She took cords 
of different shades and colors, one for each guest, and 
wound them over furniture, doorways, et cetera, through 
the different rooms on the lower floor. At one end 
of each string- she' tied an envelope containing a "for- 



248 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

tune." The red, yellow and brown cords, with all the 
varying tints of these colors, had fortunes for the men, 
while white, blue and green, turquoise, emerald and the 
like denoted the envelopes for the girls. All cords began 
in the drawing room, where each fortune hunter selected 
his or her own according to fancy. Although the cords 
were never knotted or tied in any way, the maze and 
tangle was so dense at times that the sport of the 
evening lasted a good two horns. No one was allowed 
to touch the fate thread of another player. This regu- 
lation added greatly to the difficulty and the fun. The 
fortunes were concocted in the fertile brain of the hos- 
tess. When all the envelopes had been discovered the 
young people assembled and the prophecies were read 
aloud. An amusing little trick was perpetrated by the 
girls upon the men. One of the girls appeared in the 
parlor costumed as a gypsy and offered with much 
ceremony to tell each young man the name of his future 
helpmate. She dealt out cards or shook the grounds 
in a teacup, making many calculations which meant 
nothing whatever and asking various questions. Each 
man in turn received a sealed envelope which he was 
warned not to open until the fortune telling was 
over. When the, envelope was finally opened each man 
found his own name upon a card preceded by the 
word "Mrs." 



HALLOWEEN PARTIES 



249 




HALLOWEEN SALAD (Page 250) 



SUGGESTIONS FOR HALLOWEEN 



By Hester Price 

The fireplace and mantel are attractively decorated 
with products of the field. The first step toward dress- 
ing the mantelpiece is to get a board the size of the 
shelf in order that hammer and tacks may be used with 
impunity ; after this it is a simple matter to arrange the 
fringe of corn. In the center of the space over the 
mantelpiece is the silhouette of an owl. Anyone with 
the least skill in drawing could draw the outline of an 
owl on water color paper and tint it with In-own water 
color paint. The candle shades are clever imitations 
of jack-o'-lanterns" made of orange colored crepe paper, 
with eyes, nose and mouth of tissue paper. 



250 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

An appropriate centerpiece for the Halloween 
supper table may consist of small papier maclie jack-o'- 
lanterns and splendid chrysanthemums arranged alter- 
nately around a mammoth pumpkin carved into a basket. 
The basket is filled with the shells of mandarin oranges, 
and is passed to the guests. Each shell contains an 
article — a penny, a heart, a bachelor's button, tiny china 
cat, etc., etc. These are supposed to carry a meaning 
prophetic of the recipient's future. 

Fur the salad, take a line, large white head of 
cabbage, cut out the center and cut the sides into decided 
points. With cloves make eyes, nose and mouth on 
each side. Fill the center of the cabbage with nut and 
apple salad. Serve on a large platter garnished with 
lettuce leaves. 

Fill with a mixture of two cups of celery cut fine, 
one dozen walnut meats blanched and chopped fine, the 
grated rind of one orange and one cup of tart apples cut 
in dice, with mayonnaise dressing colored green. Gar- 
nish with a tomato cut to look like a rose. 

Chestnut Burs — Two ounces of chocolate, four eggs, 
one-half CUp of milk, one teaspoon of vanilla, one-half 
cup of butter, one and one-half cups of sugar, one heap- 
ing teaspoon of baking powder, one and three-fourths 
cups of flour. Dissolve the chocolate in five tablespoons 
of boiling water. Beat the butter to a cream, gradually 
add the sugar, beating all the while; add the volks, beat 
again, add the milk, then the melted chocolate and 
flour. Give the whole a vigorous beating. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir them carefully 



HALLOWEEN PARTIES 



251 



into the mixture, add the vanilla and baking powder. 
31 ix quickly and lightly, turn into a square buttered cake 
pan. bake in a moderate oven forty-five minutes. When 




A MANTEL DECORATED FOR HALLOWEEN 



cold cut into squares with a sharp knife, trim squares 
into balls, mil b#lls in icing colored a delicate green, 
then in grated cocoanut colored green, and pile them 



252 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

on a platter or in a cake basket. The cocoaiiut is easily 
colored by tinting' about three tablespoons of water a 
good green with vegetable coloring paste. Mix in the 
cocoanut, spread on a large platter to dry before using 
on the cakes. 

Chestnut Far fa it in Apple Shells — Select bright 
red apples of medium and uniform size, cut off the tops, 
scoop out the inside carefully with a silver spoon, notch 
the edges with a silver knife and put the prepared shells 
in cold water until ready to serve. 

( 'lies/ n at Parfdit — Beat yolks of eight eggs until 
light, add one cup of maple syrup. Place the mixture 
on a slow fire until the eggs have thickened enough to 
make a deep coating on the spoon. Turn it into a bowl 
and beat it with, a whip until cold ; it wull then be very 
light. Add a teaspoonful of vanilla to the custard when 
it is taken from the fire. When the custard is cold add 
a pint of cream whipped to a stiff froth. If any liquid 
has drained from the cream, do not let it go in. When 
this is ready to go in the freezer, add a cup of boiled 
chestnuts cut in dice. Boll in powdered sugar, so each 
piece will be dry and separate and not sink to the bot- 
tom. Stir in quickly and pack the freezer immediately 
in ice and salt for three hours. Serve in apple shells. 



HALLOWEEN PARTIES 



253 




HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 



HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 

A SPELLING BEE 
By Mrs. Dan Hon 

THANKSGIVING morning some club women in 
Arkansas sent their friends invitations to an 
old-time supper and spelling bee. Each guest 
was presented with a dainty card, tied with pink and 
green, the club colors, bearing the best wishes of 
"ye hostesses." The bill of fare consisted of turkey, 
'possum, salad, pickles, jelly, mince pie, fruit, cake 
and coffee. Supper was served early. Appropriate cen- 
terpieces were made for each of the three tables of 
pumpkins cut in halves and polished, and then by the 
aid of a sharp knife the edges were scalloped and each 
ridge was carved in tiny sprays of flowers. The bas- 
kets thus formed were each placed on a mat of crinkled 
tissue paper, and filled to overflowing with oranges, 
rosy-cheeked apples and grapes. Candles were used 
to light the tables. 

After s upper, someone was selected to act the part 
of "Squire Hawkins." while two more "chose up." The 
words were dictated from Webster's spelling book, 
better known as the "blue back/ 3 and spelled according 
to the old-time method. The first prize was a "blue 
back" spelling book, while a dunce cap and a bag 
of peppermint candy were given the one who first 



258 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

misspelled a word. The spelling bee was enjoyed by 
doctors, lawyers, editors, teachers, merchants, clerks, 
misses in their teens, matrons, grandmothers, and one 
great-grandmother. 



THE THANKSGIVING TABLE 

By Marie Eulalie Moran 

To begin with the napery, a cloth patterned with 
leaves, chrysanthemums or nut burs is most desirable 
for this festival, but one with a snowdrop or other 
unobtrusive geometrical design may be used with good 
effect. Then comes the question of the centerpiece, 
whether it shall be fruit or flowers. Roth possess charm- 
ing decorative possibilities, but sentiment and a taste 
for symbolism will decide in favor of the fruit in many 
homes. 

The description of two centerpieces planned by 
clever women for their tables on Thanksgiving day 
will probably be welcomed by the housewives who are 
seeking suggestions for the novel arrangement of fruit. 
The first woman, who is an artist ami spends her vaca- 
tions in the mountains, has made a low, oval-shaped 
basket of pine cones with a wide arched willow handle 
to hold her fruit. A wreath of glowing red bittersweet 
will encircle the basket, and a length of the vine and 
a cluster of thistle puff balls will adorn the handle. 
The second woman has made a cornucopia of plaited 
grass. She is going to have brightly tinted vines and 



HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 259 

dusk}- berries around it, and have its wealth of autumn 
fruits spill out upon the table. Either of these designs 
is a charming centerpiece; so is a large Indian canoe 
piled high with fruits, with the grapes and vines 
hanging over its sides. This canoe may be woven of 
grass or be made of bark or leaves. 

If flowers are to decorate the table, choose them 
from the hardy varieties of the season. The chrysan- 
themum, of course, heads the list. Any scheme of color 
may be carried out with the aid of this flower, which 
offers the decorator snowy white, pale sulphur and bril- 
liant yellow, all the shades of bronze and red, delicate 
lilac and pink blooms, in clusters or feathery pompons, 
or tightly curled balls. But unless willing to have a tall 
centerpiece, put the vases of chrysanthemums at the 
corners of the table, or use another flower ; these proud 
blossoms are sorry objects when arranged in a low, com- 
pact mound ; they are then as characterless and unlovely 
as a crinkled paper mat. Cosmos, roses or carnations 
are also appropriate, and the autumn grains, berries 
and leaves. 

For the guest cards and dinner favors there are 
many quaint and dainty devices. Cards cut out and 
painted to represent the fall fruits or vegetables and 
lettered in gold are very attractive. These cut-out 
shapes are pasted on the tops of small boxes of bonbons 
for souvenirs. A very droll little favor is a round box 
of candy beans, the top ornamented with a Puritan 
hat. The hats are made of black paper and are pasted 
on the box tops— they should be the exact size of the 



26o THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

box. Letter "Thanksgiving," and the year, around the 
hat brim in gold. A little practice and experiment will 
enable one to become expert at making these little hats. 
Deftness is required in rolling up the tall crown and 
pasting it neatly. When dry, it is joined to the wide 
brim and a cord is tied around it. Any picture illustrat- 
ing the Puritan costume will be a sufficient guide in 
making them. 

When cake is a part of the Thanksgiving dinner, 
give your guests a surprise by serving it as a pumpkin 
or turkey. A firm cake a day old should be used, so 
it will not break in modeling. The easiest way of 
making the pumpkin is to bake the cake in two fluted 
pans, and when cool join them together in the center 
with jelly, taking care to join the flutes exactly. Then 
with a brush coat the entire cake with jelly, dust with 
sugar and let dry. Ice with almond paste or cream 
fondant, melted as for dipping candy. This icing is 
colored orange. Insert a stem and leaves in the pump- 
kin. Or a large cake may be built up tall and modeled 
with a sharp knife into pumpkin shape and then iced. 
Orange marmalade is a nice rilling for this cake. For 
the turkey a large square loaf or layer cake is needed. 
With a knife model it to look as much like a roast turkey 
as possible. Icing the turkey is a very particular piece 
of work. For the light tints, mix saffron and caramel 
colorings with the white icing and then shade Mr. 
Turkey up with caramel to make his skin look crisp 
and brown. If the plain dark caramel is too dull a 
brown, add a few drops of red and saffron to brighten 



HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 261 

it. While the icing is still soft, take a coarse-meshed 
wire strainer and press all over it to imitate the grain 
of the turkey's skin. Two sticks of candy are then put 
in the cake legs for bones, and frills of white paper 
tied around them with ribbons. Parsley may be used 
as a garnish if intense realism is desired. 

A BACHELOR'S THANKSGIVING DINNER 
By Hester Price 

It seems only fair that someone should take the 
trouble to plan a suitable Thanksgiving dinner for those 
men who are thrown upon their own resources on the 
day that one always associates with family gatherings, 
a dinner equally available, too, for families. In getting 
the desired effect, much will depend upon the quality 
and the proper laying of the cloth. An ideal bachelor's 
dinner is elegant, but rather severe in appointments. 
Handsome damask gives elegance to a table, even when 
the decoration is very simple. Yellow color effects are 
alwa} r s satisfactory, and they are particularly brilliant 
when used with artificial light. The chrysanthemum 
is the king of November flowers. It is astonishing how 
decorative even a few of these splendid Japanese blos- 
soms are. Use a flat silver bowl filled with yellow 
chrysanthemums for a centerpiece. Light the dining 
room and table with clear wax candles shaded with 
candle shades made of artificial chrysanthemums. The 
menu should be a skillful combination of what may be 



262 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

termed the national dishes with others especially liked 
by men. and above all do not neglect the brown Novem- 
ber nut. 




CHESTNUT BOULETTES 
MENU 

Oyster cocktail 

Oxtail soup 

Young turkey Cranberry jelly 

Chestnut boulettes Baked tomatoes 

Mashed potatoes 

Olives Salted nuts Ra dishes 

Sweetbreads with Madeira in chafing-dish 

Lettuce salad with French dressing 

Cheese croquettes Pastry strips 

Pumpkin fanchonettes 

Orange ice 

Old-fashioned hickory nut cakes 

Black coffee 

Roasted chestnuts 



HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 



263 




264 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

A iter the soup is removed, the butler should pass 
a tray on which are numbered tickets. Each guest takes 
one Immediately the turkey is brought in "decorated"' 
with corresponding tickets, each cut being numbered. 
'Hi is is an unusual "turkey raffle," and the matching of 
numbers is sure to occasion a great deal of interest and 
amusement. 

The introduction of the chafing-dish to prepare the 
entree would give to this jolly little dinner an air of 
Iwn-caniaraderic, provided the host is a clever manipu- 
lator of it. The chafing-dish is often tricky, and one 
needs to guard well against failure or awkward delay. 
The fanchonette or individual pumpkin pie is a 
convenient way in which to present an old friend 
under a new name. The recipe for the orange ice 
is an exceptionally delicious one. It is attractively 
served in paper ice cups covered with artificial flowers. 
At any dinner the demi-tasse of coffee should be so 
perfect as to leave nothing to be desired. Many men 
take pride in preparing such a cup of coffee at the 
table. To make a successful cup of coffee only a 
few short rules need be observed. First secure an 
up to-date coffee pot, planned to make drip coffee. 
Science says never boil coffee. Use pulverized coffee and 
freshly boiling water. Here are some of the redoes 
used in the menu : 

Salted Nuts — A mixture of almonds, filberts arid 
walnuts salted is a good combination. The filberts are 
blanched, as are the almonds, but the skin is not 
removed from the walnuts. 



HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 



265 



Orange Ice — Put one pint of water and one and 
one-half cups of sugar on to boil ; chip the yellow rind 
of three oranges, add to the syrup, boil five minutes, 
and stand away to cool. Peel eight nice, juicy oranges 
and one lemon, cut them in halve?, take out the seeds 
and squeeze out all the juice : mix with the syrup, strain 
through a cloth and freeze. It may be necessary to add 
a little sugar. This will depend upon the sweetness of 
the oranges. 




PASTRY STRIPS 



Cheese Croquettes — One cup grated cheese, whites 
of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, pinch of red pepper, 
two drop of Worcestershire sauce. Mix cheese and 
whites of eggs, beat well. Make into shapes, roll in 
bread crumbs and let stand for an hour or two in a cold 
place. Fry them just before serving. 

Sweetbreads with Fresh Mushrooms — Wash well 
two pairs of sweetbreads. Put them in boiling water. 



266 



THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 




HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 267 

add one bay leaf, a sprig of parsley, a teaspoon of salt 
and one-fourth teaspoon of pepper; cover and simmer 
for thirty minutes, then throw them into cold water, 
changing the water to cool them quickly. When the 
sweetbreads are cold pick them in small pieces, rejecting 
all skin. Drain them free from water and put in a 
bowl. Xow peel two pounds of meadow mushrooms, 
cut them with a silver knife into quarters and throw into 
a bowl of cold water. Make one-fourth pound of butter 
into four balls, put one-half of it into the chafing-dish; 
when melted drain the mushrooms, put them into the 
hot butter, cover and cook very slowly for ten minutes ; 
add the sweetbreads, cover again for ten minutes; then 
add one-half pint of thick cream, the remainder of the 
butter, a teaspoon of salt, one-half teaspoon of white 
pepper: Btir carefully until hot; add four tablespoons 
of Madeira wine and serve. It is hardly necessary to 

that the sweetbreads and mushrooms are only 
creamed at the table, the entire preparation beinsr made 
previously in the kitchen. 

Chestnut Boulettes — Mix one cup of mashed chest- 
nuts, two egg yolks beaten slightly, two tablespoons of 

in, one tablespoon of sugar, one-eighth teaspoon of 
-alt. one teaspoon of sherry. When cool fold in white- 
of two eggs beaten -tiff, form into -mall balls, crumb, 

crumb again, fry in hot fat. 

Pumpkin Fanchonettes — Mix one and one-half cups 
of stewed pumpkin verv dry, with two cups of milk, one 
beaten egg, a large half cup of brown sugar, one tea- 
spoon of cinnamon, one-half teaspoon each of salt and 



268 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

ginger. Line individual tins with pastry and bake in a 
slow oven until brown on top. 

Old-Fashioned Hickory Nut Cake — Of all the nut 
cakes there is none better than this old-fashioned one. 
Cream together one and ope-half cups of fine granulated 
or pulverized sugar and one-half cup of butter. Add 
three-fourths of a cup of sweet milk, two and one-half 
cups of flour sifted with two teaspoons of baking powder 
and one cup of hickory nut meats dredged lightly with 
flour. Lastly add one-half teaspoon of vanilla and fold 
in the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 



A JEST CHRISTMAS TREE 

By Belle Aubry 

Decorate the tree fancifully and then confine all 
gifts to those costing five or ten cents, either purchased 
outright or made at the inspiration of a merry fancy. 
Each present should have some gayetv-provoking refer- 
ence to the vocation, avocation or fad of the recipient, 
but the "hits" must be good-humored. To wound the 
feelings of a guest even in jest is unpardonable. 

The invitation to such a party might run in this wise : 
"Dear Mrs. Farnham, Santa Claus lias sent us word 
that much to his regret he will not be able to be with 
us on Christmas eve, owing to pressing engagements 
elsewhere. Will not you and Mr. Farnham make up 
for this disappointment by spending Christmas eve with 
us? We are asking a few other friends from eight to 



HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 269 

twelve, and upon each and every one is laid the embargo 
to come empty-handed. May we count upon the pleas- 
ure of seeing you both? Believe me. faithfully yours, 
Helen Macy Vedder." The item about the embargo 
shows that you do not wish presents, which a Christmas 
time invitation otherwise is taken to mean by many 
people. The notes should be sent at least ten days 
ahead, as Christmas week teems tfith engagements. 

The pivot of success for this jest tree is the spokes- 
man. He must be selected with much thought, and should 
be someone who knows all the guests well, has a nimble 
wit, ready tongue and will take his office so much to 
heart that he will make a point of being amusing in his 
remarks as he presents the presents ; these will be sug- 
gestive in themselves, and he must familiarize himself 
with the whole situation of course beforehand. If this 
master of the treo ceremonies can bo the host, so much 
the better. 

It is not witty or kind to give a mirror to a girl 
known to be vain, but it raises a laugh without a sting 
to present a girl baby doll to the mother of a family 
all of boys. A wreath of laurel for the young singer is 
a pretty bit of sentiment, and even a package of Chinese 
incense sticks will please the studio-dwelling artist. The 
stern man can but laugh over a gay red stocking filled 
with sweets, and the crack shot of the rifle team over a 
toy gun, and the divinity student over a toy church. 
These veriest trifles did duty among others last Christ- 
mas to delight, the guests at a five-cent gift tree given 
for its oddity in a beautiful Xew York home on Fifth 



2 7 o THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

avenue to amuse guests in evening dress and in the habit 
of giving and receiving gifts of much money value. 

It is much more enjoyable to limit the number of 
guests to those who can sit at table for the spread. A 
buffet, stand-up or lap-supported supper is forgivable 
only when the company is of necessity large, as at a 
wedding, and the numbers and ability of the waiters 
commensurate. 

One appetizing supper menu that is not difficult to 
make ready or expensive, consists of creamed oysters 
served in small rolls hollowed out, salted almonds, 
chicken salad, water or cream ices, bonbons, cake and 
punch. Everything but the oysters and coffee can lie 
prepared beforehand, and these take only a short time 
at the last minute. But the ices require skillful and 
timely service, and unless there is competent domestic 
service to wait on the table, substitute fruit jellies with 
whipped cream for the ices, and have everything on 
the table. 

"When the oysters cannot be had, sweetbreads can be 
substituted; chicken and mushrooms in cream sauce 
are another substitute. These creamed dishes, lobster 
a la Newburg, and many similar conceits may be pre- 
pared on the table in the presence of the guests if one is 
accomplished in the use of the chafing-dish so that she 
can feel at ease and talk as she works. The chafing- 
dish must be large, or there must be more than one when 
there are several guests. 

An appetizing little supper where chafing-dishes do 
not seem to be in harmony with the circumstances can 



HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 271 

be made from a large and delicious chicken pie, flanked 
by cold ham and turkey with relishes, preserved fruit 
served with thick sweet cream, cake and coffee. There 
should always be a punch bowl full of lemonade con- 
venient of access throughout the evening. 

The charm of hospitality does not lie in concocting 
dishes so marvelous to look at that they invite the cam- 
era's attention (and make one wonder just how many 
times each viand was handled before it finally arrived at 
its place in the resulting puzzle). The charm of hospi- 
tality is the art of doing what is done, not in the 
number or extent of things done, in the atmosphere of 
good cheer and the genuineness of the welcome, not in 
any suggested bulletin of expenditures. 



A TWENTIETH-CENTURY CHRISTMAS TREE 

By Alice Chittenden 

A very respectable winter landscape can be evolved 
with a few chairs and stools of uneven hight, some old 
sheets and cotton batting. Arrange this "furniture 
landscape" behind the tree, throw the sheets over to 
produce a hilly effect, wrinkle them into the form of 
snowdrifts, and pin tufts of cotton batting upon the 
cloth, picking it out into fluffy masses. Fix the tree 
firmly to a standard, which should be screwed to the 
floor, as absolutp rigidity is essential. Arrange more 
muslin and cotton into irregular piles of snow under 



272 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

imc] in front of the tree and fasten little tufts of cotton 

lightly here and there in the crotches formed by the 
branches. After the tree is completely trimmed, simu- 
late the sparkle of new-fallen snow under artificial light 
by powdering the cotton with fine isinglass, and when 
the tapers are lighted the effect will be really magical. 
The larger branches, if brushed over at the last with thin 
mucilage and strewn thickly with fine salt, will have 
the appearance of glistening frost. 

To produce a moonlight effect, dress the tree in 
white and silver, hanging it with white and silver glass 
balls, diamond dusted popcorn garlands and snowballs. 
One of the latter should be provided for each child. 
Fashion a number of cube-shaped boxes from stiff 
writing paper, fill with candies or with the smaller gifts 
and wrap into a round ball with loosely picked halting, 
tying with fine white spool thread to keep the shape, 
and with a crochet hook pulling the cotton from under 
the thread so as to hide the latter and make a fluffy 
ball. Yellow and gold is a pretty color for decoration, 
which can be carried out with gilded popcorn and nuts, 
yellow candles, yellow glass halls and gifts wrapped in 
yellow tissue paper with ornaments of the same material. 

Encourage the youngest child to help in the dressing 
of the tree. , The tawdry, pudgy little ornaments their 
baby fingers have fashioned are more wonderful in their 
eyes than the most costly ones you can purchase. After 
the trimming is complete, banish them from the room 
and hang on the presents, and there will still be a sur- 
prise in store for them. If the Christmas tree has any 



HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 2-3 

place in the moral universe, it is when trimmed not 
only for, but by, the children. 

For a Sunday school or "settlement" Christmas 
celebration, a "Christmas cave"' gives scope for origi- 
nality and striking scenic effects. Build a cave-shaped 
box on a raised platform, drape inside and out with 
white muslin, fasten evergreen houghs about the 
entrance and at the back, draping all of these with loose 
tufts of cotton like new-fallen snow, and sprinkling 
them with mica. Sprays of red berries can be introduced 
with splendid effect. White covered steps must lead up 
to the cave, about the mouth of which may be spread 
white fur rugs. Let the candles be fastened plentifully 
around the cave, but leave the rest of the room very 
dimly lighted. Dress a pretty, golden-haired little girl 
as a fairy with wings and spangles to enter the cave and 
bring out the gilts, and n couple of little hoys as imps 
or brownies to deliver them. Low music should be 
played in some concealed corner, with now and again 
a song or chorus by a hand of children dressed as fairies. 

People cannot be too carel'ul in guarding against 
fire when trimming a Christmas tree. There have been 
scores of ' Christmas tree fatalities in homes and in 
Sunday schools which a little care might have pre- 
vented. The present writer once ^^i a tree in a blaze, 
consuming nearly half of it, tinsel ornaments going 
with the green branches. A tiny candle had been wired 
too high and it took only a few minutes of its brisk 
heat to char a branch above it and start a flame. A thick 
portiere was torn from its pole and thrown over the 



274 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

blaze. If it had not been at hand the light window 
curtains in another minute would have caught fire. 
Since that Christmas our tree has always been placed 
in the center of the room, and we have eschewed cotton 
wool, tissue paper angels and celluloid ornaments. First 
of all, wc wire each candle securely in place at the 
farthest end of a branch which has nothing above it, 
either fir tree or trimming. Then as the tree is denuded 
we watch carefully the fast disappearing candles. 
Sometimes one of them, nearly burned down, will topple 
over or be merely a -park of flame, but near to something 
inflammable, will be a menace. 



AN INNOVATION 

By Anne Warner 

The housemother was "raised 5 ' on historic ground 
and had no thought other than to serve the regulation 
Thanksgiving dinner, till a certain little girl thus 
expressed her sentiments about a week before the day 
set aside for praise and gluttony — to be followed by a 
week of indigestion and prayer : "Mamma," she said, 
"I can't be thankful on Thanksgiving if we are going 
to have a great big dinner, and I'm going to feel all 
body as I did last year. I'm sick of turkey, anyway !" 
Furthermore, the housemother overheard remarks by 
another member of her flock to the effect that it is hard 
lines holidays when a whole family lives in a city — and 
the same city, at that — and when not one of them is 



HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 275 

considerate enough to own a farm for the sole purpose 
of having the traditional place i'or reunions. 

This set the housemother to wondering if she could 
not at least introduce an element of surprise by chang- 
ing the time-honored menu, and from that to planning 
to make the maligned city dining room suggest harvest 
season in the country. These ideas bore fruit — or 
rather vegetables — and when the project was finally 
carried out, the result justified the wearying search after 
the "common things" that made the room give one 
almost the feeling one has out-of-doors in autumn 

"When the mist is on the cornfield, 
And the sun is droppin 3 slow."" 

Tall sheaves of tasseled corn, still bearing shining 
red and yellow ears, rustled in the corners and shim- 
mered round the cheery fireplace. Masses of swaying 
wheat and nodding oats, combined with vegetables — 
few of us realize that many of these are beautiful as well 
as useful — formed groups of brilliant color wherever in 
the room they could be arranged without suggesting a 
greengrocer's shop, a plate rail near the ceiling lending 
itself most amiably to the scheme. In the center of the 
dining room was a large mirror mat. Upon this were 
heaped the fruits that our New England climate flavors 
as no other can. Care was taken to mound the fruit 
to give it hight and stability at the same time. The 
housemother thinks that the intervals of a dinner can 
be more profitably and pleasantly filled in otherwise 
than by chasing truant bits of fruit that become dis- 



276 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

lodged from the centerpiece and roll out, threatening to 
cause the collapse of the elaborate structure. The menu 
was a queer mingling of the old and the new in cookery 
— but here it is : 

Canape Lorenzo 

(Chamberlin) 

Roast "spar'rib" Apple sauce 

Stuffed onion? Potato roses 

Cider 

Chicken pip Cauliflower au gratin 

Celery Cranberry jelly 

Indian pudding, saucp Grilled nuts 

Xew century sandwiches Cream peppermints 

Coffee 

Canape Lorenzo — Chop a small shallot, fry lightly 
in two ounces of butter, without coloring. Add a 
tablespoonful of flour wet with a pint of cream, then 
one pint of crab meat ; salt and pepper to taste and 
leave on the fire till it bubbles. Cut slices of bread 
one-quarter of an inch thick, trim in any desired shape 
and toast on one side only. Put the mixture on the 
toasted side and cover one-eighth of an inch thick with 
butter prepared as follows : One-quarter of a pound 
of butter, one-half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese 
and a seasoning of both red and white pepper. Lay 
the canapes on a buttered dish and color in the oven. 

For the roast, select carefully the loin and ribs of 
a "beastie" both fresh and young. Plunge this cut 
quickly into scalding water; wipe and rub with salt, 



HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 277 

pepper, sage and flour. Bake in a moderately hot oven 
twenty or even twenty-five minutes to the pound, with 
•1 small quantity of water in the pan. It is more whole- 
some partly or entirely cold, so can be cooked early. 
Serve the roses on the same platter with it, as a garnish. 
To two cupfuls of seasoned mashed potatoes add the 
yolks of two eggs and white of one, and beat. Put in 
a pastry hag, and as it is pressed through the tube guide 
it first in a circle, then irregularly wind it round till it 
comes to a point in the center. The little piles of potato 
will look like roses — it' you are imaginative. Brush 
them over lightly with q^j;. put a bit of butter on each 
and brown slightly in the oven. 

The housemother does not believe in spoiling apple 
sauce with overmuch seasoning and cooking. Use a 
graniteware or porcelain kettle. Have in readiness 
freshly boiling water ; a good fire; (he sugar, measured; 
and selected Baldwin apples, large, unblemished and 
warm. Allow from one-half to three-quarters of a cup 
of granulated sugar to eight apples — the exact quantity 
depending upon the development of the sweet tooth in 
the family. Pare and quarter the fruit with all haste, 
laying the pieces in the kettle core side down; sprinkle 
over the sugar, pour on about thro? cups of boiling 
water, cover the kettle with a close-fitting lid and cook 
over a quick tire only until the apple quarters are partly 
transparent. Slip the contents of the kettle into a 
shallow earthen dish a I oner, keeping them right side 
up in the transfer, and put the dish in a cool, airy place. 
The sauce will he white and "sightly" and taste of apple. 



278 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

Stuffed Spanish Onions — Peel the onions under 
water and scoop out from the top a portion of the 
center. Parboil five minutes and turn upside down to 
drain. Make a stuffing of the chopped onion taken 
from the centers, softened bread crumbs, salt, pepper 
and a generous amount of butter. Fill the onions 
heaping full and sprinkle the top with buttered crumbs. 
Cover and cook till tender (about an hour) in a pan 
containing a small quantity of water. Let them brown 
a very little before taking from the oven. 

Just a few points as to the pie ! Make it big, in 
consideration for the children and the pork-prejudiced. 
In preparing the chickens take out the oysters and 
discard the rest of the back with the legs and the tips 
of the wings; a pie is no place for these. Season the 
gravy highly, thicken it also and prepare more than the 
immediate need demands, for use when warming the 
left-over portion. Make the paste like baking-powder 
biscuit dough, only richer : both little and big can 
indulge to the extent of capacity then. In the "good 
old times" the partaker ate chicken pie crust with 
dyspeptic dreams imminent ; and no wonder, with a 
pound of butter in an under crust and two pounds in 
the upper ! Use a flaring baking dish and line sidea 
only. When chicken is snugly packed in, and gravy con- 
taining a pinch of curry poured over, cover with paste 
having a circular opening cut out of it, not cut and 
turned back. Edge the pie with a border of twisted 
dough. 

Old-fashioned Cranberri/ Jelly — To every quart of 



HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 279 

cranberries allow one cup of boiling water and one-half 
a cup of seeded raisins which have been boiled in a 
little water for three-quarters of an hour. Cover and 
eook soft over a quick tire. Rub through a colander 
am! return to the saucepan. Add one pint of sugar 
and simmer five minutes, stirring constantly. Pour 
into crockery molds. For sauce, allow one pint of water 
instead of a cup, and do not strain it; or, if preferred, 
make a sugar syrup, then add cranberries and raisins 
and cook tender. 

Cauliflower an Gratin — Cauliflower should be 
creamy white without black spots. Pick off the out- 
side leaves, invert and soak in cold salted water 
for an hour. Tie in a bag and cook in boiling salted 
water for about twenty minutes, or till tender. 
Drain and break it into flowerets. Put a layer in 
an Edam cheese shell, cover with cream sauce and 
alternate la} r ers of cauliflower and sauce till the shell 
is heaping full. Sprinkle top with buttered bread 
crumbs and set shell in oven to brown the crumbs. Use 
a dish if the cheese shell is not at hand. 

Indian Pudding — Indian pudding, like several 
other savory common dishes which depend for digest- 
ibility on long cooking, is one for the person who is con- 
scious of a digestive apparatus to be wary of when not 
under his own vine and fig tree. Get old-fashioned 
bolted meal, if possible ; not that which is usually sold 
by grocers and which has the keeping qualities and flavor 
of sawdust. Follow any good recipe for combining pro- 
portions of milk, meal, suet, molasses, salt and ginger, 



280 



THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 



with or without eggs, and cook it, covered, in a slow oven 
for four or live hours. Stir occasionally and add milk if 
the mixture gets too thick. JS~ext da} 7 add more milk and 
cook again for the same length of time. Many like the 
flavor given if a liberal sprinkling of candied orange 
peel, or currants, or a layer of quartered apples, is put 
in the bottom of the baking dish. With Indian pud- 
ding the homely sauce of whipped cream mixed with 
shaved maple sugar "can't be beat/' but either hard 
sauce or caramel is excellent. m The pudding ai: this par- 
ticular dinner was garnished round about with a row of 
baked apples, sweet and sour alternating. The sour 
ones had been cored and the hollows filled with sugar 
before baking, and all cooked till soft. 

Grilled Nuts — Boil two cupfuls of granulated 
sugar with one-half a cup of water until it hairs. Add 
two cupfuls of blanched and dried almonds and filberts 
mixed and stir till the sugar grains and clings to the 
nuts. When well coated and before they get into one 
mass turn them out and separate any that have stuck 
together. 

The "sandwiches" were made of big, plump, rich 
raisins filled with almonds or hickor}' nuts. 




HOLIDAY FESTIVITIES 



281 



Coffee (the housemothers way) — In a well-scalded 
and well-aired coffee pot put the same number of 
heaping tablespoons of coffee as cups to be served. Add 
as many clean eggshells as cups, or if white of egg is 
preferred allow one white for clearing three cup.-. Add 
one tablespoon of cold water for each cup, and mix. 
Pour m the requisite number of cups of freshly boiling 
water and boil live minutes. Pour a little cold water 
down the spout ; stir in one tablespoon of fresh coffee 
and a pinch of salt and set where it will keep hot, but 
not simmer, for ten minutes. Fill the nozzle with 
tissue paper. If there is a delay in serving, at the end 
of ten minutes pour the coffee from the grounds into a 
clean coffee pot and keep hot till wanted. 

Between dinner and the good-byes, the children 
amused themselves by etching and inking faces on all 
the little sugar pumpkins among the decorations. They 
adorned them further, to their immense satisfaction, by 
tying and gluing on white tissue paper in the shape of 
caps with frills and strings. These treasures they 
carried proudly home. At bedtime, when the house- 
mother went to tuck in the original cause of the innova- 
tion (which I shall probably continue to do till she's 



282 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

twenty-one), she said sleepily: "Mamma, even-body 
enjoyed this Thanksgiving dinner, because — it wasn't 
one !" A 1 ". B. — If you must celebrate the day by eating 
turkey, get one from Ehocle Island; they are the best. 
Their title to superiority does not depend upon the fairy 
story that they are of different breed from the ordinary 
idiotic barnyard fowl, nor that their daily food consists 
of chestnuts ground up with porterhouse steak; but 
simply that, owing to the limited area of the state, the} 
do not toughen muscle or lose flesh from overexercise 



OTHER SPECIAL OCCASIONS 



OTHER SPECIAL OCCASIONS 

A BIRTHDAY PARTY 

By Jeannette Young 

ON her seventy-second birthday, a dear friend 
received us with dignity and courtesy. On her 
silver hair, arranged in side puffs, was a lace cap. 
Her gray silk gown with its white lace fichu and dainty 
work bag made her look like an old portrait come to life. 
Grandma sat in state, and we all passed in line, leaving 
on her lap our gifts and receiving a kiss in return. 
Two or three unique features [ will tell you of. There 
were fifty-two letters, each containing a picture of the 
writer and describing some pleasant incident or pleas- 
ure in their life wherein the hostess had shared; one 
letter to be opened each Sunday morning of the coming 
year. But the loveliest gift of all was from her six chil- 
dren, nine grandchildren and one wee great-grandchild 
—a silver rosary composed of silver hearts, each one 
containing a picture of child, grandchild and wee one; 
while the large pendant heart held a picture of the 
grandfather encircled by a lock of white hair. Grandma 
on the arm of her eldest son preceded us to the supper 
table, taking her place by the silver tea urn. In the 
center of the table was a rich fruit birthday cake, made 
after her own good receipt, garnished with a wreath 



286 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

of myrtle. What a delicious old-time supper. Hot bis- 
cuits, fresh butter, boned cold fowls, meats, salads, cakes, 
creams, jellies and delicious tea. Grandma was waited 
upon by her two youngest daughters and two eldest 
granddaughters. We had an evening of old-time games, 
"forfeits," "spin the platter," making gales of merri- 
ment. 

VALENTINE CONTESTS 

By Mary Dawson 

One of the new and pretty ways of opening the 
valentine party by a choice of partners for the games of 
the evening is the decision of the envelopes, which is 
arranged in this way : Take a package of old-fashioned 
valentine envelopes, those having embossed design and 
long flaps. Draw or paint on each a different sort of 
flower. Write the name of a certain girl who is to be 
present on a card and inclose it in the envelope, form- 
ing as many floral envelopes as there are girls in the 
party. Now write the names of all the flowers repre- 
sented upon separate cards. Have the name cards in a 
basket or dish in the vestibule and the envelopes — sealed, 
of course — on the drawing room table. Each man 
coming in selects the flower he prefers from the basket 
in the hall. On entering the drawing room he receives 
the envelope decorated with the chosen flower. When 
all guests have arrived the floral envelopes are opened. 
The girl whose name is found in the envelope becomes 
the partner of the man who chose her emblem. 



OTHER SPECIAL OCCASIONS 287 

A HEART PARTY FOR FEBRUARY 14 

By Marjorie March 

The text of this party is to be simplicity, as it 
is only one of the many ways that a busy housewife 
may entertain her friends inexpensively. The invita- 
tions should be on white notepaper with perhaps a tiny 
heart drawn in red ink at the top ( Cupid's coat of 
arms). The hostess herself should dress in white, red,* 
or red and white in combination. The chief expense 
will be for flowers, but two bunches of carnations will 
Suffice, which, mingled with smilax, will make a center- 
piece for both dining room and drawing room table. 

A charming cozy corner can easily he arranged for 
the headquarters of the game by pushing the table with 
the flowers into one corner; with m divan with sofa 
cushions, a potted palm or so. and suspended from the 
ceiling an immense Japanese umbrella to overshadow 
the table. In fact, for an informal evening where 
supper is simply to be passed, the more cozy corners, 
inviting seats and chairs arranged for tete-a-tetes, the 
better. 

The success of entertaining is to start people enter- 
taining themselves. For the game to be played, which 
is called the game of hearts (though not the popular 
game of cards), the list cards should have at the top 
the same little red emblem of love. The game consists 
of a list of selected quotations from poems on love, the 
players to guess from what poets the quotations are 



288 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

chosen. Pieces of paper and pencils should be provided 
for all the guests. The hostess, of course, cannot play, 
as she knows the answers, but takes charge of all the 
slips of paper as they are returned to her. A prize 
is given to the one who guesses all the quotations, or 
the greatest number. But the sequel to the game is 
perhaps the greatest fun. It is simply a slight change 
in the old game of word and question. But the words 
must be chosen from the names of the noted poets, 
and the question must pertain to love in some shape 
or manner. Each person writes a word, turns down 
the paper and passes it to his left-hand neighbor, who 
in turn writes the question, passing it on likewise. The 
third person is to write a four-line valentine, bringing 
in the word and answering the question. A vote is 
taken afterward as to the best valentine and a prize 
given. The prizes should be in the shape of a heart, 
and can be simple, a candy box filled, a stickpin, a 
pincushion or cut glass dish; any of the countless 
articles bearing that design. For the first part of the 
game take such bits of verses as the following, from 
well-known poets : 

"Life and love will soon come by, 
Thorn, little girl, don't cry." 

— James Whitcomb Riley. 

"God's love and peace be with thee 
YVheresoe'er this soft autumnal air 
Lifts the dark tresses of thy hair." 

— John Greenleaf Whittier. 



OTHER SPECIAL OCCASIONS 289 

"Love is not love which alters when it alteration finds, 
Or bends with the remover to remove." 

— William Shakespeare. 

"True love is but a humble, low-born thing, 
And hath its food served up in earthenware/' 

— James Russell Lowell. 

"I take you as a gift that God has given 
And I love }'ou." 

— Adelaide Anne Proctor. 

"I arise from dreams of thee 
And a spirit in my feet 
Has led me — who knows how — 
To thy chamber window, sweet." 

— Percy Bysshe Shelley. 

"And all hearts do pray God love her, 
Ay and always, in good sooth, 
We may all be sure He doth." 

— Elizabeth Barrett Browning. 

"The white roso weeps, she is late. 
The larkspur listens. I hear. I hear, 
And the lily whispers. 1 wait.*' 

— Alfred Tennyson. 

"Oh. that we two were maying 
Down the stream of the soft spring breeze." 

— Charles Kingsley. 



290 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

"Kissing her hair, I sat against her feet, 
Wove and unwove it, wound and found it sweet." 
— Algernon Charles Swinhurne. 

"And in that twilight hhish, God drew their hearts 
Indissoluble close. For what is love 
But his most perfect weaving?" 

— Lucy Larcom. 

"Too full of love my soul is to find place 
For fear or anger." 

— Edwin Arnold. 

"It isn't the thing you do, dear, 
It's the thing you leave undone, 
Which gives you a bit of a heart-ache 
At the setting of the sun." 

— Margaret Elizabeth Sangster. 

For the second part of the game, I will give one 
'or two verses composed at one of these parties. They 
must of necessity be rather absurd, but fun lends itself 
easily to their reading: One word written and turned 
down was "Burns," from Kobert Burns. The question 
written below was: "Must your wife know how to 
make bread?" The verse that the third person wrote 
was : 



"Oh, maiden gentle and good-looking, 
I beg to ask, art fond of cooking? 
My ardor burns — canst make good bread ? 
Well-bred — good bread! — wilt thou me wed?" 






OTHER SPECIAL OCCASIONS 291 

A second was, the word being "Grcenleaf," from 
John Greenleaf Whittier, the question : "Bo you love 
your sweetheart enough to go shopping with her?" 

"Hadst thou asked me to pluck a green leaf from a tree 
When frost claims the. earth, 'twere more easy for me, 
Than to think of poor Cupid a-wearied to stopping 
When told to make love to a maiden when shopping! !' ? 

The men 11 for this entertainment should be most 
simple: coffee or chocolate and heart-shaped sand- 
wiches, ices and fancy cakes in heart shapes. The viands 
should all be passed from the dining room table, which 
should be covered with a spotless white cloth. Candle- 
sticks with white candles and red shades should yield 
their soft light, and the spicy fragrance of the carna- 
tion cenierpiece will add to the simple charm. 

A WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY PARTY 
By E. M. 

The birthday of George Washington was delight- 
fully celebrated once in a boarding school, where 
forty girls joined in the fun, all garbed in .Martha 
Washington gowns. Forty pairs of hands had made 
light work of decorations and party preparations. The 
affair may be too elaborate to be carried out in full 
by the ordinary hostess, who must perforce be caterer, 
decorator and entertainer all in one, still the arrange- 
ment can be simplified, the ideas adapted and the party 
made none the less delightful. 



292 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

Supper was served in the great dining room, where 
a round table had been exquisitely linened and artisti- 
cally adorned. The electric bulbs in the ceiling were 
swathed in scarlet tissue paper, and between them ran 
wreaths of smilax, simulating the never-to-be-forgotten 
red of the cherry and the green of its leaves. More smi- 
lax, with milliner's cherries, clipped from cheap artificial 
wreaths, was draped about pictures, over the sideboards, 
the doors and the windows. In the center of the round 
table stood a grand decoration, on which the girls had 
worked for a week. 

It was a low tree, with slender branches. To it 
had been wired a profusion of leaves cut from stiff green 
paper, and cherries made from a dab of cotton wool 
twisted inside a round of scarlet tissue paper. The work 
was so cleverly done that it would have been hard to 
imagine the tree and its fruit were not real. Tho 
base of the tree was set firmly into a tin plate filled 
with melted lead, which kept it as steady as if planted 
in the ground. The leaden base was covered with a 
wreathing of smilax. It stood within another smilax 
wreath nearly five feet across, and within the circle 
was a scattering of green cherry leaves and scarlet 
cherries, with slender green stems of milliner's wire. 
Attached to the stems of forty cherries on the tree were 
narrow ribbons, which alternated in color, green and 
scarlet. They ran to each plate at the round table 
and ended in a jaunty bow, through which was passed 
a silver spoon with the head of the father of our country 
in relief in the bowl, while on the handle was the date. 



OTHER SPECIAL OCCASIONS 293 

The dishes used were in old blue, each service 
plate bearing a scene from revolutionary history. The 
place cards were the unique product of one schoolgirl, 
who had a gift for printing beautifully. Each card, 
four by five inches in size, was made with a border 
which looked as if there was an American flag under, 
with a white card laid upon it. "Within this border of 
red, white and blue was pasted a small fine reproduction 
of Gilbert Stuart's George Washington, then underneath 
fl sentence from some famous speech of our first presi- 
dent. In an unobtrusive corner was to be found the 
name of the guest. The table napkins were folded in 
cocked hat fashion, and everywhere about the table were 
set glass dishes holding candied cherries in all sorts of 
guise, cul in halves and placed on top of chocolate drops, 
dipped whole in scarlet fondant, or oozing with syrup 
in tiny lace paper cases. The cakes were made hatchet 
fashion and iced red, white and blue. 

There was one magnificent birthday cake with a 
garland of candied cherries and green leaves (cut from 
angelica) Bet into the white icing. The ice cream, from 
the hands of a clever caterer, was molded into Bunker 
Hill monument shapes, into hatchets, cocked hats, flags 
or an enormous two-leaved cherry. To the handles of 
sherbet cups were sewed tiny silk flags, and in these 
was served the first course, a delicious fruit salad con- 
cocted from oranges, pineapple and white grapes, with 
maraschino cherries as a garnish. Tomato bouillon 
followed in quaint blue and white cups: then came cold 
chicken sliced, plaa in timbale cases and creamed potato. 



294 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

Celery salad with a garnish of red beets was the next 
course, then the dessert, with cakes and coffee. 

While each course was being removed, the girls 
joined in singing a verse or two from patriotic songs. 
Over coffee, nuts and candy, the sentiments were read 
from the place cards and a few five-minute speeches 
were made by the best talkers at the table. The last 
ceremony consisted in a smart tweak at the ribbon beside 
the plate of each guest. This served to bring away 
from the tree one. of the tissue paper cherries, in the 
heart of which was something which betokened one's 
future ; a thimble, a ring, or the button of the lonely 
bachelor maid. The last hour spent in the parlors was 
a complete surprise to the girl household, for within 
shut doors during the afternoon the teachers had trans- 
formed a modern interior into an old-fashioned one, 
with ancient furniture, queer yellowed prints and quaint 
portraits on the walls. There were wax flowers, antique 
china, old samplers, faded embroideries, funny daguer- 
reotypes, ancient silver, beaded reticules, and old books 
scattered about on tables, lit by tall bayberry candles 
in brass candlesticks or lamps at which sparkled scores 
of cut glass danglers. The last part of the evening 
was as delightful as the supper, 

A ST. PATRICK'S DAY PARTY 

By Katherine A. Chandler 

Send the invitation in the brogue, with which Mr. 
Dooley and Seumas MacManus are making us familiar. 



OTHER SPECIAL OCCASIONS 295 



on a paper cut like a shamrock leaf and shaded a 
delicate green. The answers will probably be worth 
pinning up for all the guests to enjoy. Decorate with 
green, having the harp and the shamrock in evidence. 
Portieres of smilax have a pleasing effect. In one corner 
have a Blarney stone. All must kiss this the first thing 
so as to honey their tongues. It should be elevated a 
little so that they will have to climb up to kiss it. 

From the Blarney stone, the guests will pass to a 
booth to pay their respects to Heave, the ancient Irish 
queen who has evolved into the Queen Mab of the poets. 
As they bow low before her, she will pin on each one's 
back a card bearing an Irish name, which he is to hold 
<luring the evening. Then the courtier will rise, receive 
a bunch of shamrock as a token of Meave's favor, and 
pass among the other guests to try to discover his own 
identity. Xo one is allowed to take the card off, but 
must learn who he is by questioning. The names may 
be of real or fictitious persons, and of Irish birth or 
descent, such as Kathleen Mavourneen, Kathleen Aroon, 
Xorah Creina, Thomas Moore, Robert Emmet. Presi- 
dent McKinley, General Sheridan. If possible secure a 
harpist ; if not, have any instrument and some of the 
sweet old Irish songs, as: The Harp That Once Through 
Tara's Halls, The Wearing of the Green, Kathleen 
Mavourneen, Kathleen Aroon, The Last Rose of Sum- 
mer, etc. All present should join the singing. For 
refreshments, have pistachio cream and "shamrock" 
cakes. These can be easily made by getting a clover 
shape at the tinner's: insert a piece of citron for a stem 



296 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

and coat with an icing tinted with a green vegetable 
coloring matter. If something warm is desired, an 
oyster stew may be substituted for the "Irish stew," hot 
baked Irish potatoes in their jackets and "a cup of tay." 

AN APRIL FOOL'S EVENING 

By Marjorie March 

The would-be hostess has a smile and a big interro- 
gation mark for my greeting as I write of this occa- 
sion. "It must be a very informal evening," I avow; 
"both inclination and purse say so." And she nods 
in response. So let us imagine we have invited 
twenty-five guests, all well known to each other, and the 
invitations we must word somewhat in this way : 

Miss Blank: 

The pleasure of your company is requested at an 
informal April Fool's party, from eight until twelve, 
April first. Please wear sheet and pillowcase dress. 

Yours very sincerely, B . 

The designs of sheet and pillowcase dresses are 
endless, and the whole effect is rather pretty and ghost- 
like as the guests assemble in the parlor ready for the 
fun. The host and hostess should be similarly clad, but 
to distinguish them, they might have tiny bells sewed 
to their disguise that "they may make music wherever 
they go." Reel jesters' caps generously supplied with 
bells are a good addition and make attractive souvenirs 
for the guests to take home. These may or may not be 



OTHER SPECIAL OCCASIONS 297 

supplied to the guests in the dressing room. It is a 
little 1 additional trouble in preparation of the evening. 

When all are assembled the April Fools' dance be- 
gins. All the ghostlike figures range themselves in line. 
(hie person at a time steps out of the rank, whispers his 
or her uame to the hostess, who with paper and pencil in 
hand is to he score keeper, and she writes down his 
guesswork. He is to guess without touching the figures 
who each person is, saying the guess out loud that all 
may hear. If the guess is right the ghostlike personator 
guessed keeps silent — if the guesser makes a mistake, the 
figure before him calls out "April Fool," the score 
keeper, as L said, keeping track of the number of times 
he is fooled. At the end of the line being reached, a gay 
waltz strikes up from the piano. The sheeted figures 
seize each other as partners until the music suddenly 
ceases once more and the "ghosts" line up for another 
guesser. This does away with any advantage the last 
guesser might have over the first in being April Fooled. 
And so the merriment waxes loud until all have guessed 
and the hostess orders the masks removed and announces 
the name of the guesser who was April Fooled the least. 
A prize should be given to the most successful. This 
game is new and is great fun, as can be imagined. 

The next part of the program as announced by 
the hostess is the finding of tiny bells hidden here and 
there and everywhere. The one who finds the greatest 
number of bells is to be proclaimed chief jester and will 
have the honor of cutting the April Fool pie at the sup- 
per table. This game scatters the guests and for fifteen 



298 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

minutes gives chances for charming tete-a-tetes and 
whispered conferences in corners, that makes the even- 
ing pleasant and keeps the merriment afloat. When 
the name of the chief jester is announced, the party dis- 
appears into the dining room. Here the guests are 
served at small tables, all the viands, however, being 
placed on the center table. The April Fool pie causes 
much fun. This should be an enormous pie of pie-crust 
filled with tiny trifles wrapped in tissue paper. On the 
top of the pie twenty-four little birds cut out of black 
piper are perched by means of pins stuck through their 
feet. Also pinned to the pie is this verse: 

When this pie is opened, 

The birds begin to sing ? 
That is where you're April Fooled. 

We won't do such a thing ! 

As I said, the pie can hold any tiny trinkets. Tf 

I ersonal joke can be carried out by the character 

he gifts, so much the better. If one wishes to be 

trouble of having bells (little ones, of course) 

1 ere and there and everywhere, it is a carrying 

e idea that a fool must have cap and bells. A 

e of bells to the tablecloths, as an edge to the candle 

eli des, and on the rungs of the chairs, would be the 

most effective and best spots. 

Fried oysters, with sandwiches and coffee, ices and 
cakes, would make a good menu. Here there should be 
no fooling. The candies that are made of cotton, the 



OTHER SPECIAL OCCASIONS 299 

food that is deluged with pepper, etc., etc., seem but poor 
jokes to the average jester, and when hospitality is to 
play the Tool it would be the hight of rudeness to his 
eruests. 



CHURCH AFFAIRS 



CHURCH AFFAIRS 

THE STRAWBERRY FESTIVAL 
By Annabel Lee 

THE month of June is the accepted time for the 
strawberry festival, which furnishes an excuse 
for a church fair or for a money-raising device, 

under a new name and with fresh attractions. The 
ideal arrangement is to have the festival out of doors, 
making it as summery a,- possible. Bid alas, in the 
north Dame Nature is a capricious person, even in June, 
and it is a trifle risky to plan for an outdoor fete. How- 
ever, let us appoint the night when there is to he a 
moon, and let us suppose that some generous soul has 
beeu found who possesses a spacious shad)' lawn and 
a roomy house with verandas, and who is willing to 
sacrifice her family, her possessions and herself, particu- 
larly her temper, to the good of the cause for which the 
festival is given. Let a committee of capable workers, 
not shirkers, be selected to manage the affair, conferring 
with the owner of the house, hut not exacting much of 
her. It is enough to loan a house and grounds, to pre- 
pare them for the event, and to set them in order after- 
ward without having the actual responsibility. 

In the first pla£e arrange round or square tables, 
seating six or eight persons, over the lawn and verandas. 



304 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

TLe veranda tables will appeal to the people who prefer 
to "keep off the grass.'' Use fine white linen tablecloths 
nd have for centerpieces small ferns stuck into ting 
of wet moss or sand, or if some gardener will allow his 
berry patch to be rilled, use blossoms and leave-. 
. iling to get either ferns or strawberry flowers, use 
June roses of a deep pink tint. 

If table dishes are hired, have white, or pink and 
white, trying to keep the arrangement of color in straw- 
berry red, green and. white. Folded Japanese paper 
napkins of white, or white bordered with strawberry 
flowers or berries, should be laid at each plate, with 
knife, folk, spoon and glass. Have no food except 
relishes on the table, and serve each order separately. 
Nothing so spoils the appearance of a table as a mixture 
of half-filled dishes, and it spoils the appetite, too. Have 
each table in charge of a matron with two waitresses, 
the prettiest girls to be found, and ask them to dress 
in white. The matron will see that the table is kept in 
order and the girls will wait upon the patrons of 
the feast. 

Place some rugs and easy chairs in sheltered spots 
to attract the people who do not care to stroll about 
the grounds, and have rustic benches cozily located in 
the garden for tete-a-tetes. Use plenty of Japanese 
lanterns for decoration, but depend for light (which 
will not fail) upon large headlights or lanterns with 
reflectors, hung on convenient trees. A few large tables 
covered with white paper and sheltered from view by 
screens might be placed in the background for serving 



CHURCH AFFAIRS 305 

the supper, or the food might be brought from the 
kitchen — whichever plan seemed most convenient. A 
sales table for the display of aprons, embroidery and 
bags of various kinds might be included in the arrange- 
ments. However, for an out-of-door party it seems 
hardly desirable to offer anything for sale except the 
supper, which should be the main feature, and beyond 
reproach. The very best cooks should be asked to pro- 
vide the food and great care taken to have everything 
as dainty and attractive as possible; hence all details 
must be carefully planned and arrangements made in 
advance. Xo eleventh hour haste will atone for first 
hour delay. 

In a conspicuous place set a table holding a glass 
bowl of strawberry frappe or lemonade, to be served in 
small glass cups. A block of ice hollowed out, with 
a lighted pink candle inside, may be put in the center 
of the bowl, and the frappe heaped around the ice, 
insuring coolness. Decorate the table with strawberry 
vines or ferns, and have two white-robed maidens t<> 
serve the frappe. 

The supper may be served from five to eight o'clock, 
as June evenings have long, delightful twilight, and the 
lanterns need not be lighted early. Music is an attrac- 
tion to such a festival, hut an orchestra adds to the 
expense, and it might be inadvisable to hire one. A 
street piano (at proper distance) might create amuse- 
ment and add a novel feature, or perhaps some amateur 
performers on mandolin, banjo and guitar might be 
induced, in qther words, coaxed, to volunteer their 



306 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

services. Such an offer must be taken up at once, giving 
no one time to change his mind. 

Now, for the supper. It must be hearty, but not 
heavy, for rich food in summer is unnecessary; it must 
be varied to suit different tastes, and yet be made up of 
articles which may be served cold and which will not 
spoil quickly. 

Lobster salad makes an appetizing dish, perfect in 
color, to serve for such a supper; but direful tales are 
told of the effect of combining lobster, strawberries and 
ice cream, so, to keep temptation from the injudicious, 
lobster salad must be tabooed. Cold boiled ham and 
tongue thinly sliced and garnished with parsley will 
answer for meats. Tomatoes cut in halves and served 
on a leaf of crisp lettuce with a spoonful of golden 
mayonnaise, will furnish a tempting salad. Saratoga 
potatoes, radishes, pickles and piinolas will add zest to 
the supper. Individual sweet shortcakes, strawberries, 
the very choicest, and cream, rich and yellow, strawberry 
ice cream, strawberry eclairs, sponge cake, angel cake, 
small cakes, make a list of sweets to suit each and all, 
while coffee and chocolate will serve for beverages. 

It is a good plan to order the rolls from some well- 
known bakery and have them delivered fresh just before 
the supper. The butter may be served in pats if anyone 
has the patience to roll them. Cakes marked in tiny 
squares can be bought and cut deftly, and kept on ice. 
A pretty menu card should be placed on each table, and 
the supper may be served a la carte or for a fixed price, 
with ice cream and strawberries extra. With plenty of 



CHURCH AFFAIRS 307 

help in the kitchen and a well-defined plan of service, 
this supper should be easy to provide, and would surely 
prove attractive if well advertised. 

The same plan might be carried out on a church 
lawn if the situation was suitable. Yet it is a noticeable 
fact that an entertainment which is given on private 
grounds draws more people and seems to be a trifle more 
novel and attractive. 

The rolls, crackers, Saratoga potatoes, radishes, 
pimolas, strawberries, cream, ice cream, frappe, small 
cakes and angel cake may be purchased from the baker 
and grocer: all the other dishes on the menu should 
be homemade. If enough money can be raised before- 
hand to pay for the food purchased, so much the better 
for the profits from the supper. 

After nil the arrangements have been made, the 
Weather, with a big W, may interfere at the very last, 
and a flight indoors be necessary, or a postponemeu! 
may seem the wisest plan. It requires abundant courage 
to undertake an out-of-door party, yet when everything 
is favorable success is unquestioned. 

FOE AX INDOOR FESTIVAL 

An indoor festival is not dependent upon smiling 
skies, and may be planned with full security and confi- 
dence. Church parlors and kitchen will provide the 
necessary room and permit more elaborate features in 
the shape of a bazar. A novelty in a sales table is 
a large round table decorated to resemble a wheel, with 



308 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

a mound of strawberries surrounded with green leaves 
for the hub, and radiating spokes made of long strips 
of smilax, trailing fern or vines. In the intervening 
spaces have jars of rich strawberry preserve, jelly and 
jam for sale, made by housewives whose work can be 
recommended. At a food sale the question is often 
asked: "Who made this?" And if in reply one can 
say : "Mrs. X, who makes delicious preserves," a sale is 
effected at once on the strength of a reputation. A 
newspaper article on food adulteration tells of straw- 
berry (?) jam made out of glucose, coloring matter 
and seeds of timothy grass. None of those delicacies 
enter into homemade productions, which always com- 
mand a high price. 

A table for the sale of homemade cake and cookies is 
a fitting companion to the preserve table. Decorate a 
table for candy with green and strawberry red on a 
white cloth, using red and green crepe paper and silver 
candelabra, with red candles and shades. Have home- 
made candy in glass dishes; also salted almonds and 
stuffed dates; these will bring a good sum of money. 
Scales, white paper bags and boxes and red twine should 
be provided for packing up the candy. 

The crepe papers may be purchased at the station- 
er's store in a bewildering variety of colors and patterns. 
This paper is most useful for decoration, and skillful 
fingers make from it bewitching lamp and candle shades, 
boxes, patty cases, flowers and paper dolls, which cost 
little and find ready purchasers. Wall paper in artistic 
flower patterns makes attractive covers for all kinds of 



CHURCH AFFAIRS 309 



boxes, large and small. It also makes dainty photograph 
frames when skillfully mounted with pasteboard, glass 
and passepartout. A paper table might include station- 
ery, photographs and writing tablets. 

June roses vie with strawberries in rich reds, and 
may be used in decoration, or sold at a flower booth. The 
frappe or lemonade table should have a place of honor; 
if space permits the storage of a freezer full of vanilla 
ice cream (out of sight), strawberry college ice may be 
served at this table, with a spoonful of ice cream cov- 
ered with a spoonful of crushed strawberries, sweetened 
with boiled sugar syrup, in tall, bell-shaped glasses. 
The supper tables should be arranged as for the outdoor 
festival and the same supper served. 

STRAWBERRY FESTIVAL MENU 

Cold ham Cold tongue Rolls 

Saratoga potatoes Tomato salad Crackers 

Pickles Radishes Pimolas 

Individual sweet shortcakes Strawberries and cream 

Strawberry ice cream Strawberry eclairs 

Sponge cake Angel cake Small cakes 

Coffee Chocolate 

A few recipes for cakes and preserves may help in 
preparing the supper and sale: 

Individual Sweet Shortcakes — Beat three eggs light, 
acid one cupful of line granulated sugar, and beat again. 



<M 



310 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

Acid one cupful of sifted flour mixed with one teaspoon 
ful of cream of tartar and one-half teaspoonful of soda 
Add three tablespoonfuls of milk. Beat well and bal 
in slightly buttered cupcake tins in a quick oven. When 
cold remove the centers and iill the eases with crushed 
sweetened strawberries and cover with sweetened 
whipped cream. These cakes are much better to serve 
for a supper than the usual shortcake, which needs to 
be eaten as soon as it is baked. A cold, soggy shortcake 
is a dish to avoid. 

Strawberry Eclairs — Boil together in a saucepan one 
cupful of boiling water, one-fourth cupful of butter 
and a speck of salt. As it begins to boil, stir in one 
cupful of sifted flour. Stir constantly until the mix- 
ture leaves the sides of the pan and cleaves together 
in a ball. When partly cool add four eggs, beating theru 
in one at a time. Drop carefully in long narrow strips, 
seme distance apart, on buttered tins, and bake in a 
moderate oven until well risen — about thirty minutes. 
Leave the oven door open a few minutes before remov- 
ing the eclairs, to prevent their falling. When they are 
cool split one side, fill with sweetened strawberries or 
jam. Spread with boiled icing colored with straw- 
berry juice. 

Canned Strawberries — Hull and wash perfect fruit 
and pack it into jars. To each quart allow one-half 
pound of sugar and one cupful of water. Boil this into 
a S}rrup and fill each jar two-thirds full. Screw on the 
covers loosely, place the jars on a rack in a boiler two- 
thirds full of tepid water. Cover, and when the water 



CHURCH AFFAIRS 311 

boils allow twelve minutes' cooking. Remove the jars 
to a table, fill them brimming full with hot syrup! Put 
on the rubbers and screw on the covers firmly. 

Preserved Strawberries — Hull and wash the fruit. 
Allow three-fourths pound of sugar to one pound of 
fruit. Place the berries and sugar in Livers in a large 
porcelain bowl and let it stand over night. In the morn- 
ing drain off the juice and heat it in a preserving kettle, 
letting it boil for fifteen minutes. Then add the fruit 
and when it boils skim if necessary and till into hot jars, 
sealing them closely. A thicker preserve or jam is made 
by allowing one pound of sugar to each pound of fruit 
and boiling from twenty to thirty minutes and storing 
in glasses, like jelly. 

Strawberry Jelly — Select perfect fruit, firm and even 
in size. Lay aside the best, about half, and press the 
juice from the rest. Strain, and to each pound (pint) 
of juice allow one pound of sugar and boil fully twenty 
minutes. Weigh the selected fruit and add an equal 
quantity of sugar. Add to the jelly and boil carefully 
a few minutes. Xo exact time can be given. Try a 
little in a saucer and when the jelly seems thick and 
firm pour it into glasses. Seal when cold. This is not 
a very firm jelly, but is delicious. — American Kitchen 
Magazine. 

Sunshine Strawberries — Select dark colored fruit. 
Cook three pounds of tine granulated sugar with two 
cupfuls of boiling water without stirring, till a thread 
will spin when the syrup is dropped from a spoon. Cook 
the berries in this syrup for fifteen minutes after they 



3 i2 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

begin to boil. Pour the preserve on large platters, cover 
with gauze and let it stand in the sun for two or more 
days until very thick. Store in glasses and cover with 
a. paper. — Boston Cooking School. 

Strawberry Sherbet — Use one quart of berry juice, 
four uupfuls of sugar, the juice of two lemons, three 
pints of water and a Jew whole strawberries. Serve in 
a punch bowl with a block of ice, or freeze for frappe. 

A CHURCH SUPPER 
By Mrs. A. R. 

The annual pay supper of the women's missionary 
society of our el urch lias always been a trial and a 
vexation, until affairs reached a climax. The crowd 
Mas large and unruly, and the disgraceful spectacle was 
witnessed of newcomers standing behind the chairs of 
those who were seated and clamoring for haste on the 
part of the diners. In this rush the diners were poorly 
served, the tables soon lost all semblance of daintiness, 
the waste of food was outrageous and toilets and tem- 
pers suffered. A radical change was decided upon and 
the sequel proves the plan a success. We arranged four 
long tables in the hall where the supper was served, 
each table capable of accommodating fifty. When the 
first fifty people had lined up in the anteroom for their 
supper, they were admitted to Table No. 1, and the 
doorkeeper was instructed to prevent any further entries. 
The fifty were daintily served with oyster stew, crack- 
ers^ pickles, celery, rolls and butter, and for this first 



CHURCH AFFAIRS 313 

course in the menu, one coupon from tickets was 
detached. At the end of seven minutes a gong sounded 
and the first fifty diners advanced decently and in 
order to Table No. 2. In three minutes Table No. 1 
was brushed and reset and the second installment of 
fifty from the anteroom was admitted and received 
exactly the same treatment as the first fifty. The few 
in the anteroom who were in excess of fifty awaited 
without grumbling, secure in the knowledge that in ten 
minutes their turn would come. At Table No. 2, the 
menu was Boston baked beans, pickled cabbage, brown 
bread, salad and preserves, and a second coupon was 
detached. At the end of seven minutes the gong sounded 
again and the first fifty advanced to Table No. 3, 
and those at Table No. 1 advanced to Table No. 2. 
Three minutes were devoted to brushing and resetting 
the tables, and then the third installment of fifty was 
admitted from the anteroom to Table No. 1. At Table 
No. 3, the menu included turkey and all its accompani- 
ments, mashed potatoes, cranberry sauce, slaw, olives 
and hot biscuit and butter, coffee and doughnuts, and a 
third coupon was detached. At the end of seven min- 
utes, the diners advanced once more, the first fifty (or 
as many as desired of this number) to Table No. 4. 
Table No. 4 was known as an "extra," and to this only 
holders of "four-coupon" tickets were privileged. At 
Table No. 4, ice cream, cake, fruits and confectionery 
were served. Those who did not desire the extra quietly 
passed from the, supper room. This supper, as stated, 
proved a success. At no time was there a clamoring 



3 i4 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

crowd in the anteroom. At the tables the diners shared 
exactly alike and were served simultaneously. The 
business man with scant time at his disposal secured 
an ample meal Within half an hour, and above all there 
was no waste of food. Each plate was set before the 
diner with an impartial and amply sufficient allotment 
of food, and in almost every case the plate was cleared. 
Late in the evening as the diners decreased in number, 
they were admitted in squads of twenty-five and even 
a lesser number. But the idea of progression was rigidly 
maintained throughout. We sold our "four-coupon" 
tickets for fifty cents and the "three-coupon" tickets 
for tliirtv-nve cents. 



A CHARITY POST BOX 

By Mary Dawson 

A charity fair in the south brought out some fresh 
ways of drawing in the dimes and dollars for a good 
cause. One clever little idea took the form of a post 
box, a wee booth fitted up with a window at either side 
where letters were sold for charity. A pretty girl, 
acted as postmistress. From one side she delivered 
the men's letters, from the reverse side those of the 
women. Anyone paying a quarter received a letter. 
In the men's side the mail was prepared by the girls 
of the neighborhood. The girls' side was fitted out 
by the men. The envelopes were addressed simply "To 
the Charitable/' Sometimes thov contained lively little 



CHURCH AFFAIRS 315 

letters; others revealed a laughable verse or a sketch or 
a camera snapshot. In every case the communication 
was signed with the name of the correspondent, author, 
artist or photographer, as the ease might be. The price 
for each envelope was twenty-five cents, irrespective of 
the contents. As it was known that each popular man 
and girl in the neighborhood had contributed at least 
once, and often as many as six times, the box was con- 
stantly surrounded by i'n^or venturers desirous of obtain- 
ing a souvenir from the pen of a certain man or a certain 
girl. Reckless plungers invested half a dozen times 
before the desired memento was secured. Within two 
hours' time the postmistress was obliged to confess that 
"all mail had been distributed." 



FOR THE SUNDAY SCHOOL 
By G. F. S. 

A pretty entertainment was planned and carried 
out for tit teen Sunday school pupils by a teacher at the 
church parlors. Small paper and envelopes were used 
for the invitations, which ran like this: ''Miss S. S. 
will entertain her Sunday school class at the church 
parlors Saturday afternoon at 2.30 o'clock. You are 
invited to this peanut party." The scholars (all girls 
in this case) were prompt, and on the arrival of the 
fifteen were told to find the peanuts. After a success- 
ful hunt, they were allowed to eat them at the kinder- 
garten tables, and while they were eating, the teacher 



3i6 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

prepared the peanut race. Bows of peanuts, seven in a 
row, were placed on the floor, knives were given to 
the girls, and the fun began. The peanuts must be 
carried on the knife to a basket, and so on, one by 
one, till the girl whose row was done first secured the 
prize, a box of peanut candy. Next chairs were placed 
in a row, one ready to sit in, the next back to front, 
and so on alternately ; seven peanuts were placed in each 
of the fifteen chairs. The scholars marched around 
the chairs to the sound of music and as the teacher 
stopped, grabbed a peanut from the front of a chair, 
and so on. Sometimes the teacher stopped playing 
quickly, sometimes there was a longer march ; they 
never knew just when the music would cease. At the 
close, the girl having the most peanuts received a box 
of peanut fudge, and the others were allowed to eat 
their captures. For the next and last amusement, the 
scholars stood in two rows opposite one another, the 
teacher joining the game that there might be eight on 
a side. A basket of ten peanuts was placed at the 
head of each row ; at the word "go," the leader bent, 
took up one peanut, passed it to second, who passed it 
to third and so on. the leader meanwhile having picked 
up another and passed it on. Xo girl was allowed to 
Jiave more than one peanut in her hands at one time. 
The row that won received all the peanuts, to be eaten 
by them. At the kindergarten tables refreshments 
were passed, consisting of sandwiches, pickles, peanut 
cheeseballs. frosted cookies, small round sugared dough- 
nuts, chocolate and cocoanut cake. 



CHURCH AFFAIRS 317 

SUNDAY HOURS 
By H. C. C. 

With a gathering of children wliose intentions 
for spending Sunday had been defeated by had 
weather, the following impromptu amusement proved 
most successful : 

For the foundation of play, take one of the inter- 
esting tales of the Old Testament. Head this story to 
the child audience, abridging it as much as possible, so 
they will get merely the simple lines of the tale. After 
apportioning to each child one character or several 
unimportant ones, to be represented by paper figures 
cut from old magazines, set the scene and begin the 
play. The children will be intensely interested in pro- 
viding proper figures, such as a baby Moses for Phara- 
oh's daughter to find, a suitable young man for Joseph, 
a harp for the young David. Indeed, there is as much 
entertainment and instruction in the mere getting ready 
as in the play itself. Then there are accessories for the 
scene to be found and arranged, all of which the boys 
will furnish with enthusiasm. For the movement of the 
play again read the tale aloud, and each child will carry 
his paper figure through the neccessary performance. 

This game possesses so much of charm that, in one 
household at least, it closes with an excitement like 
that experienced in reading a story "to be continued,'"' 
at the most thrilling point. It makes our little folks' 
conceptions of the life of the "chosen people" more 
definite. 



SPECIAL OCCASIONS 319 

SUPPERS AND A FAGOT PARTY 

By Linda Hall Larned 

A group of social lights decided last Thanksgiving 
to have a scries of suppers conducted upon the same 
lines as the beloved dinner dance of a decade ago. The 
result was really delightful — suppers of six at five dif- 
ferent houses at which the courses were limited to four. 
The brief supper was chosen as being easy to prepare, 
and one of the guests opened her house, a large colonial 
one, for the fagot party which was the wind-up. 

One supper was served on a round mahogany table 
with embroidered doilies and white chrysanthemums for 
decoration. A centerpiece of silver and glass filled with 
the flowers was surrounded by six crystal candlesticks 
in which were yellow fluted candles. These were held 
in by a circle of chrysanthemums in shallow tin recep- 
tacles about an inch and a half wide, which are made 
in sections to be adjusted to any table. 

The fagot party was a gathering of this merry 
crowd around a big fireplace, a veritable ingle nook in 
which there were arrangements for a real fire of wood. 
To every guest was given a small bunch of fagots to 
burn, and as each guest was called up to replenish the 
fire he began his "stunt" with the first twig laid on 
and did not finish until the last one was in ashes. The 
actor who succeeded best in amusing the audience 
received a prize and the one who failed, a consolation. 
One person gave a clever imitation of Mr. Dooley and 



DEC 19 W* * 

? 

320 THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HOSTESS 

Id's Unpression of the St. Louis convention, even to the 
Bryan weep. Then some nimble dame gave a Loie 
Fuller skirt dance with the aid of a voluminous Mother 
Hubbard of pink cheesecloth prepared and donned for 
the occasion. Another told a story of real adventure 
which was both amusing- and pathetic, and still another 
gave a fair representation of a folk-lore story teller. 
A ventriloquist and prestidigitator kept the audience 
amused, and then a beautiful voice was heard in the 
gamut of songs, from In the Garden of Sleep to Bedelia. 
The enjoyment culminated with the refreshments, 
consisting of a large bowl of mulled cider on a huge 
silver tray. The bowls were brought in on another tray 
and so were sandwiches and crullers. The cider was 
"mulled" after the following recipe: To one quart of 
cider, add one teaspoon of whole spice and a half tea- e 
spoon of cassia buds, boil three minutes, add three eg^ 
beaten thoroughly and serve at once. This amount 
would serve six persons. On the tray surrounding 'he 
bowl were dozens of burning "snapdragons." Thesc- 
were large plumped raisins soaked in alcohol. They 
were set on fire before the attention of the company was 
called, and then each guest was given a small bowl and 
told to "snap" as many dragons as he or she could into 
the bowl while they were still burning. This is easier 
than it seems, as the burning alcohol will not harm the 
fingers. Each one's bowl was examined and the one 
having the most received the prize. Then the hot cider 
was poured into the bowl, the raisins adding to the 
flavor. 

<* P- 0. Mar., -05. 



