TX 

US \ 



M 



a^\ 



MAZDAZNAN 



ENCYCLOPAEDIA 
oi DIETETICS 

AND 

HOME COOK BOOK 

COOKED AND UNCOOKED FOODS 
WHAT TO EAT AND HOW TO EAT IT 



DR. O. Z. HANISH 



PUBLISHED BY THE 



MAZDAZNAN PUBLISHING COMPANY 



CHICAGO, ILL. 
1904 



MAZDAZNAN 

ENCYCLOPAEDIA 
2£ DIETETICS 



AND 



HOME COOK BOOK 

COOKED AND UNCOOKED FOODS 
WHAT TO EAT AND HOW TO EAT IT 



**Pick out what's besty 
Nature will do the rest." 



Secon& Edition 



PUBLISHED BY THB 



MAZDAZNAN PUBLISHING COMPANY 

CHICAGO, ILL. 
1904 



LIBRARY of CONGRESS 
Two Copies Received 

MAY 3 1904 
Oooyrleht Entry 

g-t. ^ -2. O 
COPY B 



/ 






Copyright 1904 
by the 
Mazdaznan Publishing Co. 
Chicago, 111. 



FIRST EDITION. 

Strange to say, that notwithstanding the many hundreds 
of cook books placed before the public within the last decade, 
still another comes having more or less points of superiority. 
If it were not so, the law of evolution would be disregarded. 
Every careful thinker cannot fail to see the want of radical 
reform in modern culinary art. That present modes of pre- 
paring foods for the human 'stornach do not conform with 
the universal law of nature is evinced by prevailing wide- 
spread misery and distress. That there are two ways of 
living cannot be disputed. Choose the right way and happi- 
ness and longevity will be the reward. It is the mission of 
the Mazdaznan Home Cook Book to reveal the narrow 
way, wherein no one may err, which leads to peace and 
harmony in the Father's house. 

All the recipes herein given have been carefully formu- 
lated, and if reasonable attention is given them they cannot 
fail to please. As they are in harmony with the law of 
health, all foods prepared according to their instructions 
will effectually "take up the white man's burden." 

The Mazdaznan Home Cook Book is in accordance 
with the teachings of philosophy, which holds that ideas and 
actions are controlled according to our breathing and diet. 
Wheat being the standard of the life-building tissues in 
man, a meal must necessarily be equal in proportion to the 
elements found in wheat. Otoman, 

Prince of Adu$ht 
Chicago, 1901. 



SECOND EDITION. 

The first edition of the Mazdaznan Home Cook Book 
is entirely sold, and the demand for another Cook Book has 
been expressed on all sides, so the publication of a second 
edition has been decided on. The ready sale of the Cook 
Book shows that people will eat, of whatever creed, color or 
caste they may be, and that the question of food, even by 
those who deny the reality of matter, is the foremost topic, 
if not of most vital importance, making all further argu- 
ment unnecessary for the reason that after all they will eat. 
This being the case, we are encouraged to furnish our kind 
friends with a Cook Book that will cover the requirements 
and demands of our age with the hope that it may tend to- 
ward the study of the economy of life, insuring health and 
happiness physically and the broadening of mind, soul and 
spirit intellectually. 

With blessings of all good things, 

Otoman, 

Prince of Adusht. 
Chicago, 1904. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE. 

Breadmaking 7 

Bread 12 

Gems and Pancakes 18 

Cereal Foods 20 

Beverages 24 

Cakes 32 

Candies 38 

Condiments and Spices 40 

Croquettes 41 

Dairy Foods 42 

Dressings 43 

Sauces 45 

Eggs 48 

Fritters and Patties 53 

Fruits 57 

Jellies 63 

Meat 64 

Nuts 66 

Oils 69 

Pickles and Catsup 71 

Pies 72 

Puddings and Custards 77 

Salads 82 

Sandwiches 86 

Soups 88 

Full Dinner Dishes 94 

Vegetables 104 

Miscellaneous Dishes no 

6 



CONTENTS-Continued 

PAGE. 

Health Rules 117 

Dietary Rules 118 

Dietary Foods 119 

Raw Food Department 123 

General Food Rules 124 

Beverages and Drinks 126 

Bread 128 

Cereals 130 

Cakes 131 

Creams and Dressings 132 

Eggs 134 

Salads 135 

Soups 138 

Dietary in a Nutshell 139 



MAZDAZNAN 
ENCYCLOPAEDIA of DIETETICS 

AND 

HOME COOK BOOK 



BREAD-MAKING. 

The most important problem which confronts the health- 
seeker is that of bread-making. Unless acquainted with the 
chemistry of cookery, erroneous ideas and actions often lead 
to the production of an article fit only for a gatling gun. 
An old aphorism has it that "bread is the staff of life," but 
bread as it is made today by the majority of housewives 
could fittingly be dubbed the "staff of death." With refer- 
ence to the aphorism, we might suggest its analysis. "Staff 
of life" would literally mean "supporting life," and in this 
sense it would be advisable to know the kinds of bread 
which are and are not life supporting, that discrimination 
may the more easily be made. 

The bread used by the majority of American and Euro- 
pean people is made from white wheat flour, or fine flour, 
and contains 75 per cent starch. As there is no nutriment 
in starch, this kind of bread leads to partial starvation. 
Many physical and mental derangements may be traced to 
its excessive use. Budding manhood and womanhood sub- 
jected to the strain of school-room work, often reaps as its 

7 



reward the blighting touch of brain fever instead of a meri- 
torious education when nerve force is depleted by partaking 
unwisely of carbonaceous foods. Children sheila not be 
given white bread, especially when spread with butter. It 
acts as a slow poison to their systems and lays the founda- 
tion for untimely ill health. 

All superfine flours, such as High Patent, Fancy Patent, 
and numerous others now on the market, are sadly deficient 
in food values, which have been lost in the milling process, 
and it is neither profitable nor safe to use them to any 
extent in bread-making (biscuits and hot cakes are included 
in the category). 

There is a white flour called "low-grade," procured gen- 
erally only at a flouring mill, which contains good food 
value. It is a creamy-yellow in color, and if properly used 
will make nutritious bread. The cost is less than one-half 
that of the "high patent," and it is far superior as a food, 
though, of course, somewhat inferior to the whole-wheat or 
graham flour. 

Most graham flour on the market is merely a blending of 
patent flour and coarse bran. 

Whole-wheat flour is not truly whole wheat, but is merely 
called so because of the demand for whole-wheat flour. The 
whole of the wheat ground never makes fully pure white 
flour, but is rather yellowish and when baked into bread 
is of a dark color. 

The whole wheat ground in a Mazdaznan Mill will give 
better satisfaction in the making of bread than any flour 
ground in a regular mill, unless that mill uses the old-fash- 
ioned stones for grinding purposes. But even then the flour 
should be used while it is fresh and not be exposed to air 
and moisture. 

For daily use unfermented bread only should be used for 
food, as yeast bread increases the fermentative action, de- 
stroying the life-giving properties of the food and forcing 
alcoholic productions upon the organism which proves detri- 
mental to the heart, consequently the nervous system. 

After a little practice it will become just as easy to make 
the unfermented as it is to make yeast bread. 

The secret of making unfermented bread, and making it 
light and sweet, is to have fresh flour, using it while warm. 
Metal burrs affect the grain in grinding to a great degree, 



especially when the metal becomes heated during the milling 
process. 

It is an established fact that corn which has been ground 
in an old-fashioned mill will rise when baked even without 
baking powder, and, in fact, be lighter and more palatable 
than corn ground in roller mills. Roller ground corn neces- 
sitates the use of baking powder, and when used for such 
purpose never comes up to the old-fashioned corn bread. 
What is true of corn and wheat is also true of every other 
grain and cereal. 

It has been demonstrated by chemical analysis and in- 
numerable experiments that wheat contains all the elements 
necessary to sustain life indefinitely. By the use of whole- 
wheat and graham flour the "staff of life" will ever be at 
hand to stay the presence of the "grim destroyer." Many 
new brands of such flour are now on the market, all pos- 
sessing points of merit. 

Next to wheat, as food grains, come rye and barley. 
Barley, though rich in nitrogenous matter, is deficient in true 
gluten and must therefore be mixed with either wheat or 
rye to make good bread. Rye contains more saccharine 
than does either wheat or barley, and its nitrogenous mat- 
ter is closely allied to casein, making it an admirable food. 

Oats as a food can be considered as such only during cold 
weather, or in the northern clime, but even then it must be 
combined with enough vegetables or fruits to eliminate 
its heating properties. Combined with other grains it serves 
a good purpose in its own season. Oatmeal porridge, unless 
cooked in a double boiler for from five to seven hours, is 
practically indigestible and exceedingly harmful to children. 

Buckwheat should be used sparingly on account of its 
heating properties. It will overheat the blood and cause 
skin eruptions unless combined with the free use of large 
quantities of fruit. 

Rice, when unpolished, serves as an excellent article of 
food, and combined with fruits and vegetables is equal 
in. nourishing properties to that of wheat, providing it is 
not swamp-raised. Polished rice, sago, tapioca, arrowroot, 
etc., are from 75 to 90 per cent starch and may be used spar- 
ingly when combined with foods of greater value. 

Maize, or Indian corn (yellow variety), is rich in carbon 
in the form of oil, and very valuable as food in cold cli- 
mates for generating bodily heat. Little, if any, should be 

9 



eaten in summer. Corn meal readily spoils because of the 
case with which the fatty matter undergoes oxidation. 
White, or southern, corn contains less oil and may be used 
as food at all times of the year, though with less benefit than 
wheat or rye. 

The use of yeast in bread-making is not advisable unless 
baking is thorough. The process of fermentation, when 
not checked by sufficient heat during baking, continues after 
the bread has been taken into the stomach, and when that 
organ is in a weakened condition great distress is a result. 
Statements have been erroneously made that the yeast plant 
is destroyed during baking, but if investigation is made \t 
will be found that the crust is practically the only portion 
of a loaf of bread which is entirely free from ferment. All 
this may be demonstrated by soaking a piece of white yeast 
bread in a cup of warm water for about four hours and 
noting the changes which take place. 

White yeast bread should not be eaten unless it has been 
toasted to a golden brown in a moderate oven, but not on top 
of the stove. The browning process changes the starch to 
dextrin, which is nutritious and easily digested, and also 
effectively destroys the ferment. 

Scientific investigation has shown that the excessive use of 
white yeast bread is one of the prime causes of inebriety. 
As there is a considerable amount of alcohol in this kind of 
bread, its use creates a morbid craving for ardent liquors. 
This accounts for the reason why many persons are wedded 
to white yeast bread like a bibber to the morning glass. 
Should those sanctimonious, motherly souls, working so 
diligently in the ranks of the Temperance Societies, turn 
their attention toward the exclusion of meat, yeast bread and 
starch foods from the family table, intemperance would be 
a thing of the past. 

Hot bread, rolls and biscuits for supper are synonymous 
with "midnight visions," delightful sensations in the epi- 
gastrium, and timely visits from the family doctor. A word 
to the wise is sufficient. 

The "sour-dough" method of bread-making should be 
decried. It is indelicate, and savors of degeneration. The 
same may be said of "soured-batter" hot cakes. Cooking 
changes conditions to a certain extent, but does not remedy 
the evil. The human stomach is not a fitting receptacle for 
such ferment, it having passed beyond that stage eons ago. 

10 



Baking powders, as a rule, are not blessed with purity, and 
most of their effervescing properties are due to the presence 
of alum and ammonia, both highly injurious to the system. 
Pure baking powder is composed of tartaric acid and bicar- 
bonate of soda, and the mixture of these two chemicals forms 
rochelle salts. The habitual use of bread made with this 
agent, though it might be termed medicated, is very un- 
healthful, producing dyspepsia and various stomach ail- 
ments. 

"Sour-milk-and-soda" may be classed with the objection- 
able methods of bread-making. It is almost impossible to 
judge the correct quantity of each article to use, and an 
excess of either will result in a disordered stomach. 

Flour should be kept dry, as the least dampness will affect 
it. Bread made with milk will be whiter and better than 
that made with water. The milk should be boiled, not 
heated, and not allowed to get below lukewarm temperature. 
Milk bread needs little or no shortening, and less flour is 
required than when water is used. An earthen vessel should 
be used in preference to wood or tin, as it can be kept cleaner 
and will preserve the temperature of the "sponge" better. 



u 



BREAD. 



PROMOTIVE BREAD. 

Grind up one pound of seeded raisins with three table- 
spoonfuls of flaxseed ; add two pounds of coarse flour and 
mix and bake in same manner as unfermented bread. Use 
it after stale. Slice it into one-half inch slices and expose 
to the sun before putting into bread box. For constipation 
troubles, very good. 

UNFERMENTED WHOLE-WHEAT BREAD. 

Grind wheat grain in a Mazdaznan Mill. Grind it me- 
dium coarse. Grind as much as you expect to use, as fresh 
ground flour will rise more readily and retain its natural 
aroma and sweetness. Take a quart of lukewarm water, 
one tablespoonful salt, two tablespoonfuls sugar and two 
tablespoonfuls cooking or olive oil. Stir the flour into the 
liquid until it forms a light paste. Stir rapidly and thor- 
oughly. Cover the dish with a cloth and set in a moderately 
cool place for from three to six hours in accordance to the 
season. The partly coarse wheat will swell and become 
aerated, consequently making the dough light. When ready 
for working the dough add a little finer ground flour and 
knead it with your hands for about half an hour until it 
becomes gummy and rolls up like a ball, but it should not 
be stiff. Put into well-oiled pans which are covered or 
sealed. Fill pans not more than two-thirds. Place the 
pans at once in a moderately heated oven. Let the bread 
bake for three hours before moving it. It should bake for at 
least four hours. It is well to have a little tin can filled with 
water at one corner of the oven which will improve the 
baking of the bread by virtue of moistened heat (steam). 
If you want a soft crust, roll bread in a wet cloth for one 
to two minutes as soon as it comes out of the oven, or brush 

12 



it with a brush dipped in water and then rub off with the 
beaten white of an egg. When cold wrap the bread in wax 
or oiled paper, seal and put away or put bread into an 
earthenware crock, set in a dry place, keeping crock cov- 
ered with paper. This bread thoroughly baked will im- 
prove with age. It digests easily and promotes action 
more readily than any other food. 

SWEET BREAD. 

Grind two-thirds of a pound of seeded raisins in your 
vegetable grinder. Take a quart of lukewarm water, one 
teaspoonful of salt, two or more spoonfuls of almond or 
olive oil (or any vegetable oil), stir it all together in the 
water, and until the raisins seem to be all dissolved. Then 
stir into it home ground wheat (partly coarse) until all 
forms quite a firm consistency. Cover the dish with a cloth 
and allow it to stand over night. Then knead the same 
as you would when making the plain un fermented Oriental 
bread. Bake in a slow oven for two to two and one-half 
hours in covered pans. The above dough may be used for 
fritters by adding a well-beaten egg to the consistency and 
frying it in plenty of hot olive or vegetable oil. 

ORIENTAL FRUIT BREAD. 

To one quart of lukewarm water add a pinch of salt and 
a small teacupful of olive oil. Wash and seed a pound of 
dates, put all or nearly all of them in the water. Grind 
your wheat very coarse on a Mazdaznan Mill and add 
enough of it to the above to make it like chicken feed. Do 
not have it too moist. Prepare it at night before going to 
bed. In the morning put in the rest of the dates and about 
half a pound of the seeded raisins. Work it into the con- 
sistency of gum. Do it with your hands. Use covered pans. 
Put a little of the dough into the pan and sprinkle with 
raisins. On top of this put in more dough and again raisins 
and so on until all of it is in the pan. Cover the pan and 
set in an oven of slow fire. Place a big pan on bottom of the 
oven, fill with water, putting the grate on it, and on this 
place your bread pan. Keep the lower pan always filled with 
water. You may bake this bread for six hours. It will be 

18 



perfectly soft and exceedingly palatable. To steam it you 
may put it in pails and hang them in the boiler, but be careful 
that no water gets into your bread pails, and boil for six 
hours. Sometimes it is well to add a little water and work 
the flaxseed in. Always grind your own flaxseed, and if 
you want the bread to be sweet, without any aftertaste, use 
the whole flaxseed. This bread will answer many demands 
by those of organic complications as well as others. Sliced 
and toasted this bread will make rich blood. 

BREAD STICKS. 

Take two cupfuls of milk, one well-beaten egg, one small 
teaspoonful of salt, three cupfuls of whole-wheat flour, 
freshly ground on the Mazdaznan mill, one teaspoonful of 
oil, or sterilized butter. Beat the mixture out in the open 
air, if possible, for three-quarters of an hour, or until it 
cleaves from the pan, and put immediately into hot bread- 
stick irons and bake for thirty minutes in a hot oven. The 
above mixture is sufficient to fill the irons No. 22 E. These 
sticks are particularly suitable for dyspeptic and consti- 
pated persons. 

ORIENTAL CORN BREAD. 

Bring one pint of water, salted to taste, to a boil. Stir 
enough meal into it slowly to make a thick mush. Take it 
off the fire and beat it hard with a spoon. After it has be- 
come somewhat cool, beat into it two or three yolks of eggs, 
adding a little oil or clarified butter to it. Beat the whites 
of eggs thoroughly and now stir them into the consistency 
perfectly. Oil the pan, put the batter into same and bake 
for about half an hour in hot oven. 

SUN-BAKED BREAD. 

An excellent summer food. Take coarse ground flour, 
moisten it with oil and water; salt it to taste. Knead and 
beat the dough in a shady place. While beating add or 
spray water over the dough gradually. When light in con- 
sistency, make into thin layers the size of wafers. Heat 
some iron plates or pans and spread upon them oiled paper, 

14 



and on that put the cakes. Set out in the scorcliing sun and 
let them bake all day. They will prove very palatable. If 
made in large quantities to keep, it is well to put them into 
oven to rebake. They will keep almost indefinitely. Instead 
of oil, fine ground nuts, like pine, Brazil, or chestnuts and 
almonds, may be used, either separately or combined. This 
bread, eaten with fruit, will act mildly upon the bowels. 

CORN BATTER BREAD. 

r'ut one-half a pint of buttermilk in a pan and stir into 
it two teacup fuls of white cornmeal. Dissolve one-half tea- 
spoonful of soda in one-half cupful of milk and stir this 
into the above gradually. Now add two well-beaten eggs, 
one teaspoonful of oil and enough salt to taste. Bake slowly 
until brown. 

SALT-RAISED BREAD. 

Pour upon a teacupful of milk sufficient boiling water to 
bring it to blood temperature, about 90 degrees F., — higher 
temperature will result in failure — add one-fourth teaspoon- 
ful each of salt and sugar; stir in one large tablespoonful 
cornmeal, or graham flour, and two teaspoonfuls wheat 
flour ; mix all together to consistency of pancake batter and 
set to rise by placing bowl containing the batter in warm 
water ; should water gather on top, dust in a little flour and 
stir. If set in the early morning it will rise at noon. Mix 
as other bread, put in earthenware pans if possible, and let 
stand until light, when it is ready for the oven. If used 
with plenty of fruit it will not be harmful. Be sure not to 
use drinks of any kind when using salt-raised or yeast bread. 

TABLE BREAD. 

To two quarts flour add one teaspoonful salt, one tea- 
spoonful sugar, two tablespoonfuls clarified butter, or pure 
olive oil or nut meal. Mix one-half cake hop or com- 
pressed yeast with one pint lukewarm water, previously 
boiled, pour into middle of flour while stirring with wooden 
spoon until proper consistency for dough is attained, using 
more flour or water as may be needed. Knead the mass for 

15 



half an hour or more. If properly stirred and kneaded it 
will rise to double its size in four hours. Knead again with 
a little flour, shape into loaves and place into well-oiled warm 
pans. When sufficiently raised, place in heated oven, adding 
heat after fifteen minutes' baking. Bake one hour. When 
done, take out of pans and brush with water or milk. 

POTATO BREAD. 

Take five boiled potatoes, put through a colander, add two 
and one-half quarts lukewarm water, one cake yeast foam 
thoroughly dissolved in one-half cupful lukewarm water, 
sufficient flour to make the thickness of sponge cake. Beat 
ten minutes and put into warm place to rise over night. In 
the morning add one tablespoonful salt, two tablespoonfuls 
sugar, "low-grade flour" enough to make stiff dough. Put 
on bread-board, w^ith flour to prevent sticking, then knead 
with knuckles and fists for half an hour. Put in warm place 
to rise ; do not cover. When light, shape into loaves without 
kneading. When loaves are in pan, run a fork through 
them several times. When sufficiently raised, bake in hot 
oven for forty-five minutes, then change position of pans 
and bake fifteen minutes longer. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

To one quart "sponge" add two parts graham flour, a lit- 
tle Indian meal, salt. Wet up, mix, add half a teacupful of 
molasses to a loaf. Have the dough very soft. Knead well 
and set to rise. It takes longer to rise and longer to bake 
than white bread. Bake in a steady oven for about two 
hours. 

WHOLE-WHEAT BREAD. 

Make "sponge" from one-half cupful lukewarm water, one 
cupful white flour and one-half cake yeast dissolved in one- 
fourth cupful lukewarm water; cover and set in a warm 
place, about 90 degrees F., until light and foamy. Add one- 
half cupful scalded milk cooled to lukewarm, one-half tea- 
spoonful salt, sufficient whole-wheat flour to make a stiff 
dough. Knead thoroughly, mold into a loaf, put in a warm 

le 



buttered pan, cover closely and set in a warm place until 
it rises to double its size, then put in a hot oven. After 
fifteen minutes, lower the temperature and continue baking 
for one hour. 

Rye and graham bread made the same way, but require 
longer baking. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

Take one pint each whole-wheat flour and southern white 
cornmeal, one teaspoonful baking powder, one teaspoonful 
salt; mix thoroughly and add one-half pint sweet butter- 
milk or sweet milk, one-half pint sweet almond milk, one 
cupful pure maple syrup, or sorghum, one cupful seedless 
raisins. Beat well together and put into buttered double- 
boiler and steam four hours, then brown in hot oven. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Take one pint of white "sponge" and add one and one- 
half quarts of fresh graham flour, one tablespoonful sugar, 
one tablespoonful salt, and sufficient lukewarm water to form 
a stiff batter. Knead it thoroughly for about half an hour. 
Set to rise at an even temperature; when light, knead into 
loaves, using sufficient white flour ; let rise to about double 
the size and bake one hour in hot oven. Have pans well 
oiled or buttered. Do not mix batter over night. 

RYE BREAD. 

Make "sponge" of one quart warm water, one cake com- 
pressed yeast (or one teacupful wet yeast), thicken by add- 
ing sufficient rye flour to make a batter ; put in a warm place 
to rise over night; in the morning scald one pint cornmeal 
and when cool add to "sponge." Stir in sufficient rye flour 
to make a dough thick enough to knead ; knead very little, 
put in deep pans, let rise again, then put into oven and bake 
one and one-half hours. 

SUN-DRIED. 

Slice salt-raised bread and allow it to dry out thoroughly 
by heat of the sun. Used with fruit or fresh vegetables will 
prove beneficial even to the dyspeptic 

17 



GEMS AND PANCAKES. 



CORN MUFFINS. 

Two cupfuls white cornmeal, one teaspoonful baking pow- 
der, two eggs well beaten, one and one-half pints sweet 
milk; stir well together and bake in hot buttered pans for 
thirty minutes. 

WHOLE-WHEAT MUFFINS. 

Three cupfuls whole-wheat flour, two teaspoonfuls pure 
baking powder, mix by sifting thoroughly. Put one beaten 
egg in one and one-half pints milk, add one tablespoonful 
melted butter, then stir into the dry mixture. Bake in gem 
pans in hot oven for twenty-five minutes. 

GRAHAM OR RYE GEMS. 

To one or two cupfuls of graham or rye meal add two 
teaspoonfuls of pure baking powder, one cupful sweet milk, 
two tablespoon fuls melted butter; stir quickly and bake in 
gem pans twenty-five minutes. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Cream together one-half cup of butter and one cup of 
sugar ; add one cup of milk, two beaten eggs, one teaspoonful 
of cinnamon, and one pint of flour that has been sifted with a 
heaping teaspoonful of baking powder. Add enough flour 
to make a soft dough. Roll into a sheet nearly an inch thick 
and cut into shapes with a cutter. Fry to a golden brown 
in a kettle of boiling oil. In taking them out be careful not 
to pierce with a fork ; drain on soft brown paper. 

18 



CORN PONE. 

Take one quart yellow cornmeal, one-half pint white 
wheat flour, one teaspoonful each of salt and baking powder, 
one tablespoon ful clarified butter or olive oil, one egg; add 
sufficient sweet milk to make a soft dough. Put in oiled 
bread pan and spread over top one-half cup thick cream. 
Bake to a dark brown in hot oven. 

PRAIRIE GEMS. 

Take three cups of well-sifted flour. Be sure to use an 
earthenware or china bowl which you warm before sifting 
flour into it. Take one teaspoonful of salt and three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Stir it all well. Take three cold eggs 
and beat them well. Add to the above and keep on beat- 
ing for ten minutes ; put into well-oiled pans and bake 
quickly in hot oven. 

GERMAN POTATO PANCAKES. 

Grate six large raw potatoes and one onion fine ; add three 
well-beaten eggs, one tablespoonful of sugar, three table- 
spoonfuls of flour to bind the mixture ; salt to taste. Mix as 
you would griddle cakes and fry in hot olive oil until brown 
and crisp. Serve with apple sauce. 

ALL-DAY PANCAKES. 

Take one cupful sifted flour ; add one-quarter teaspoonful 
salt and one tablespoonful sugar. Stir it all well. Add one 
well-beaten egg and thin down batter with lukewarm milk. 
Beat the batter well and let it stand for half an hour. The 
pan should contain about one-half inch full of oil. Pour 
spoonful after spoonful of the batter into the pan at various 
places, for the smaller the cakes the nicer they will be. 
Turn them as soon as the underside begins to turn a brown 
color. Let no draft strike them while baking. Let them 
bake nice and crisp and you will be able to use them even 
when cold. 



l» 



CEREAL FOODS. 

In the preparation of cereals for food there is a great 
advantage in roasting before boiling. Roasting or browning 
changes the starch into dextrin, which is easily assimilated, 
while boiling only forms it into a slimy mass, which is diffi- 
cult to digest. The saving of time is an important item, 
especially when preparing breakfast, and grain preparations 
first baked require only five to fifteen minutes' cooking, 
while in a raw state they must be boiled from one to seven 
hours to make them edible. 

Rolled wheat may be sufficiently cooked in one hour, while 
cornmeal and oatmeal require five to seven hours' careful 
boiling. 

All wheat preparations, such as farina, wheatlet, farinose, 
etc., should be sprinkled dry into a saucepan of boiling 
water. Stir until they reach the boiling point and begin to 
thicken, then push back where they will boil slowly for forty- 
five minutes. Do not cook them in a double boiler, because 
the heat generated is not sufficient to separate the starch 
cells without prolonged cooking. The average tempera- 
ture in a double boiler rarely exceeds i8o degrees F., which 
is only adapted to the proper boiling of eggs, other foods 
requiring not less than 212 degrees. 

If possible, prepare your own cereals as the aroma of 
freshly ground and prepared grains is the essence of the 
life of the grain. 

All grains or grain preparations, as rice, sago, tapioca, 
hominy, etc., should be boiled over a quick fire. 

Pulses, like beans, peas, lentils, etc., are counted among 
the vegetables and require treating whether in a ripe or 
green state. When rolled or flaked are to be used the same 
as sago or rice and are best when combined with the latter. 

Grains as well as pulses may be used with milk or fruit 
juices and prove nourishing when combined with nut creams 
freshly prepared. 

Oils used with grains and pulses should be added with the 
water so as to allow thorough mixing, thus making it more 
digestible. In ordinary cases oil will not be readily digested 
unless cooked. 

The old-fashioned oatmeal, rolled and flaked oats and 
wheat are in many respects more commendable than the 

20 



predigested foods or toasted preparations. Rolled wheat 
and oats put in the oven to dry, but not toasted, will prove 
a more palatable dish than any of the scientifically pre- 
pared dishes. 

When eating grains prepared or unprepared a quantity 
of fruit or fruit juices should be combined. 

Avoid sugar on cereals, especially when milk or cream is 
used, as their mixture causes rapid fermentation and pro- 
duces dyspepsia. 

If you require sweets, use sweet fruits. 

STEAMED WHEAT. 

Take a cupful of whole wheat and soak for several hours 
or over night, if in winter. During summer soak for four 
hours only. Soak only in as much water as the wheat will 
absorb. Put it into a fine wire sieve and place the sieve over 
a kettle of boiling water, covering the pot so the steam will 
pass through the sieve containing wheat. One minute of 
steaming is all that will be necessary to give the wheat a 
most delicious flavor and taste. Eat with oil or cream, or 
with ground nuts. 

PLAIN DISH. 

Wheat soaked over night and boiled from four to seven 
hours over a slow fire until popped open, eaten with cream 
or oil, proves to be one of the most nourishing dishes. A 
bowlful of this wheat will prove more satisfactory than all 
the scientifically prepared dishes on the market ten times 
in quantity, besides you know you are eating pure food. 

PLAIN WHEAT DISH. 

To one cupful of wheat coarsely ground and soaked over 
night or for a few hours, use one egg well beaten and one- 
half cup of cream added to it, which you pour over the 
wheat. Use neither salt nor sugar. You can get your 
grocer to grind the wheat for you if you have no grinder of 
your own. F'^r a change you can soak a few raisins with 
the wheat, which gives it a decided flavor and sweet taste. 
A few blanched almonds, ground and mixed in with toasted 

21 



wheat flakes or soaked wheat, will furnish a nice dish. In- 
stead of the cream and where something warm is preferred, 
hot cereal drink may be poured over the wheat. 

ORIENTAL WHEAT DISH. 

Pick the wheat clean and wash twice. Expose it to the 
sun for several hours. Then soak it for six hours or less. 
Boil it in the water it was soaked in, adding more water 
when needed, for four hours until perfectly soft and open. 
Put it in an earthenware dish and pour over it quite a quan- 
tity of oil that has been used for frying fritters, etc. Salt 
it to taste and set in the oven for fifteen minutes, leaving 
the dish uncovered. When served will have a flavor de- 
cidedly pleasant to those who had a taste for meat. 

POPCORN. 

Pop as usual and grind moderately fine. Use one tea- 
spoonful ground peanuts or almonds to every three table- 
spoonfuls ground popcorn. Serve without milk. 

CRACKED WHEAT. 

Brown a quantity of cracked wheat in a moderate oven; 
sprinkle into a saucepan of boiling water and boil for thirty 
minutes. Cream or cocoanut butter may be added. 

GRAINOL. 

Rebake slices of stale whole-wheat bread in a moderate 
oven, break with a rolling-pin or grind on mill to any de- 
sired fineness. Four tablespoonfuls will suffice for one meal. 
If white bread is used, double the amount for each dish. 
Serve with cream, but without sugar, 

SWEET CORN. 

First-quality sweet corn, parched and ground moderately 
fine and soaked in cream or milk, makes a very wholesome 
dish. If boiled five minutes before serving, the flavor will 
be greatly improved. 

>2 



CREAM TOAST. 

Make a cream by adding to one quart boiling milk one 
tablespoonful white flour blended with sufficient cold milk 
to form a smooth paste ; boil until smooth and creamy, 
stirring constantly. Add a little salt and one teaspoonful 
cocoanut butter. Toast a number of slices of white bread 
to a golden brown in a moderate oven, pour over each piece 
separately sufficient boiling water to soften, drain and lay 
on plates and cover with the cream. Very delicious and a 
splendid dish for convalescents. 

SHREDDED WHEAT. 

Brown the biscuits in slow oven, break with rolling-pin or 
grind in mill. Serve with milk or cream. The addition of 
almond or walnut butter will greatly improve the flavor. 
Obese persons should eat such preparations without cream 
or nnts. 

FARMERS' RICE. 

To one cupful whole-wheat flour add pinch of salt an3 
sufficient cold milk to form dry rivelings ; add milk slowly 
and work with spoon by rubbing to prevent formation of 
large lumps. One beaten egg may be used instead of milk. 
Put two quarts milk in graniteware pan, set on fire and 
when boiling point is reached, stir rivelings in slowly. Boil 
slowly fifteen minutes, watching carefully to prevent burn- 
ing. Very nutritious and greatly appreciated by all having 
unperverted appetites. 

GRAINUTTA. 

Cut into thin slices stale whole-wheat and rye bread; 
remove the crust, using inside of bread only. Allow it to 
dry out thoroughly, then put into moderate oven and allow 
both sides to become a dark-yellow color. When cold, 
grind or roll to medium fineness. Sack or put in jars and 
keep in dry place. Before serving, place into moderate oven 
for a few minutes. Serve with nut food or cream. Use 
two-thirds of wheat to one-third rye bread. The outside 
crust can be preserved for making symposia, 

23 



BEVERAGES. 



The habit of tea and coffee drinking has fastened itself 
upon the American people to such an extent that freedom 
therefrom can be attained only by persistent effort and added 
mental force. The present fast age requires a careful hus- 
banding of nervous energy to achieve success, and stimulat- 
ing beverages offer nothing but a stumbling block to higher 
aims and aspirations. The evil effects of tea and coffee 
are too well known to be dwelt upon at length ; suffice it to 
say that habitual drinkers will find a decided relief from 
their stomach and nervous troubles if cereal coffees and 
other beverages are used as substitutes. 

With a little study and experiments most delicious and 
appetizing drinks may be prepared that will prove of benefit 
to the suffering and aid the mentally inclined in his search 
of knowledge by virtue of a better active mind. 

CHINESE OR JAPANESE TEA. 

All teas, whether Japanese, Chinese or Russian, so called, 
have more or less merit for medicinal purposes, but are 
absolutely injurious when combined with foods or meals. 
The only proper way of preparing teas is to pour a small 
quantity of hot water upon the tea leaves and allow them to 
develop, the time varying, in accordance to the kind and 
age of the tea, from three to fifteen minutes. As soon as 
leaves are developed, pour all the boiling water desired into 
the pot and repour into another pot, throwing away the 
dregs. If you put a piece of licorice-root or sandelwood 
into the teapot while tea is developing you will run no risk 
as to the thein which is the poisonous principle contained 
in all teas. 

Teas are to be used in cases of fevers, colds and lung 
troubles only, and then in moderate quantities and mild. 
Used without sugar and cream the tea will prove of great 

34 



value, particularly on cold winter nights, and also in the 
summer, "as a tonic whenever feeling intestinal contractions 
due to eating unripe fruits and vegetables. Otherwise do 
not use teas lest they will go back on you in cases of 
emergency. 

ARABIAN COFFEE, 

Or berry coffee, so called, is not a drink or food. It is 
for medicinal purposes and for that reason is only an occa- 
sional drink. If rightly prepared it may be used more fre- 
quently during the cold winter months, particularly on 
holidays. The fact is that for commercial reasons coffee is 
not allowed to ripen. It is picked green and develops poisons 
which prove injurious to the liver as well as kidneys. Ripe 
and well-seasoned coffee, stored for two or more years, then 
roasted only as occasions demand, may be used with less 
injurious results, if any. But even then coffee is not to be 
used as a drink with meals, but merely as a light stimulant, 
consequently as a vesper or evening drink on social occa- 
sions. 

PROPER USE. 

Roast your own coffee. Get as old a coffee as you can 
for that reason, or store it yourself. When roasting do not 
roast it too dark. When done rub the coffee beans with the 
white of eggs and immediately after with clarified butter. 
Keep in dry place. Grind the coffee only for immediate 
use. Grind it fine but not floury. Always make what is 
known as drip coffee. For that reason keep a well-cleaned 
flannel cloth or a double layer of cheesecloth. Put the 
coffee into cloth and tie it over the pot. Pour about a cupful 
of hot water over it, and let it stand for one minute and 
then pour all of the boiling water over it as desired. One 
heaping teaspoonful of fresh-ground coffee is all that is 
needed for an ordinary-sized cup. Do not use sugar with 
your coffee. 

When cream is used be sure you pour the cream into your 
cup first and then the coffee. It will act mildly on the 
liver and intestines. All coffee should be sipped hot. 

In cases of stomach troubles and troubles of the intestines, 
cramps and spasms, drinl< hot black coffee with a little rum 

26 



SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS. 

Our abnormal methods of living necessitate the use of 
spirituous liquors as a medicine, but as habitual drinks they 
are an abomination and are to be decried. There are 
organic troubles where champagne, grape brandy, Jamaica 
rum. Anise whisky and malt beer will prove of inestimable 
value in cases where spirituous drinks have never been used, 
in a normal body these liquors will act like magic and prove 
excellent means to desirable ends. If used in cases of 
emergency only we shall have no need of raising the absti- 
nence question. In stomach, liver and consequent heart 
troubles, chills and fevers, use salt brandy as a means of 
relief, abstaining from food until the trouble has subsided. 

SALT BRANDY. 

To prepare salt brandy add to a pint of old brandy one 
teaspoonful of well-sterilized and finely-powdered table salt. 
Shake well. Keep bottle in a cool dark place. Use one to 
three teaspoonfuls, according to severity of the case and 
age. When body does not perspire within half an hour 
drink elder-blossom tea freely, two to three cups as hot as 
can be borne, repeating the dose. An ""failing remedy in 
all troubles, acute and otherwise. 

OIL DRINK. 

When fatigued and somewhat irregular take one tea- 
spoonful of olive oil, beat it and cut it with the juice of half 
a lemon. As soon as it begins to froth beat one cupful of 
boiling water over it and sip it slowly. Use two or more 
times a week. Excellent after a fast during cold weather. 

SWEET TASTE IN MOUTH. 

Gather wild rose blossoms in season and dry them. Put 
them in an earthenware or close jar. After meals wash 
the teeth and rinse the mouth well and use a few of the 
leaves, which should be chewed thoroughly and slowly, 
swallowing the liquid only. This process will give a sweet 
breath, while a mild tea made from the blossoms will give 



a clear tint and a beautiful skin, when drank one-half hour 
after meals. 

CEREAL DRINKS. 

In preparing cereal coffees, herb teas, or cocoa, it will 
be found that just the least speck of salt and an egg shell 
added to the articles upon which boiling water is to be 
poured will improve the drink considerably and aid digestion 
admirably. 

MORNING DRINK. 

Take one dozen each of dates and Italian chestnuts. Grind 
or chop them fine. Pour a quart of sweet evening milk 
over them. Stir a little. Set aside for an hour or more. 
If to remain over night grind the dates and chestnuts coarse. 
When to be used strain through a cloth or fine wire sieve. 
You may boil the consistency after an hour's soaking, bring- 
ing it to a boiling point slowly. When boiling a pinch of 
salt will be required. For infants or invahds add it to the 
wheat, oat and barley gruels, which will prove an excellent 
food acting lightly upon the bowels. 

WHEAT COFFEE. 

Roast two pounds of whole-wheat grain until brown. 
As soon as taken out of the roaster, stir into it the whites of 
two eggs, well beaten and salted a trifle. Stir well and 
thoroughly and until the grain is perfectly glazed. Keep 
in a tin or jar. Do not expose to light. Grind enough for 
immediate use. Three tablespoonfuls will be enough to one 
quart of water. Grind fine. Do not boil, but drip it the 
same as Wisdom Coffee. If prepared in earthenware or 
porcelain pots it will develop a finer aroma than Arabian 
coffee. 

WISDOM COFFEE. 

Three cupfuls whole barley, two cupfuls wheat, one cup- 
ful rye. Roast until brown. Use of this blend three table- 
spoonfuls to a quart of water. Prepare as follows: Over 

87 



your pot put a flannel cloth or two layers of cheesecloth; 
into this place your finely-ground cereal, and pour one 
cupful of boiling water over it. Let it stand for one minute, 
then pour the rest of the boiling water on it. Cover tight 
as quickly as possible. Set over small fire for a minute, 
but do not allow it to boil up. As soon as all the water 
has passed the grounds, take off the cloth, throw away the 
dregs and serve the hot coffee at once, pouring it over 
fresh cream, and do not pour the cream into the coffee. 

HOME COFFEE. 

Mix six cupfuls cracked wheat and one cupful New 
Orleans, maple or sorghum molasses ; put in slow oven 
until well browned, stirring occasionally to prevent burning. 
Put six tablespoonfuls in two quarts water and boil over 
slow fire for ten minutes. Serve with cream. 

HEALTH COFFEE. 

Take a quantity of whole barley (not pearl barley) and 
soak twenty-four hours in as much water as the barley will 
absorb. Keep in a warm place. Dry the barley by slow 
heating and brown in a slow oven, stirring it occasionally. 
Prepare and serve same as Wisdom Coffee. 

COCOA. 

To one pint boiling water add three tablespoonfuls cocoa 
mixed with three tablespoonfuls granulated sugar; boil 
slowly for ten minutes and add one quart boiling milk, white 
of one egg and a little dash of vanilla extract, with a speck 
of salt. Mix thoroughly and serve hot. 

COCOA FROM COCOA-SHELLS. 

Put four tablespoonfuls of washed cocoa-shells in coffee- 
pot and pour over them one quart hot water ; add egg shell 
and the white of one egg and boil ten to fifteen minutes. 
Flavor with one teaspoonful vanilla extract and serve with 
cream and sugar to taste. ■ ■ 

28 



BARLEY COFFEE. 

. : Put 3/ quantity of whole barley (two-row barley, some- 
times called coffee barley) into a large pan, and brown in 
a slow oven, stirring occasionally to prevent burning. Use 
the same way as Health Coffee. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Put in graniteware saucepan four ounces shaved choco- 
late, three tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar, and three 
tablespoonfuls hot water ; stir over hot fire until smooth. 
Have heated to boiling point in double-boiler one quart milk, 
into which pour the melted chocolate, beating the while with 
whisk or fork. Flavor with one teaspoonful vanilla extract 
and serve with whipped cream. 

HERB TEAS. 

Made by infusing dried or green stalks, leaves or bark 
in boiling water; let stand until cold and sweeten to taste. 
If desired hot, steep for three minutes, then serve. Use 
cream, sugar or lemon juice. 

TEA DRINKS 

are most beneficial at night, and shortly before retiring to 
bed. Linden blossoms and elder blossoms used occasionally, 
with either lemon juice or a little cream, will prove a 
wholesome drink. 

SLIPPERY-ELM BARK TEA. 

Over a handful of broken bark pour one quart boiling 
water; cover and let stand until cold. ■ Add lemon juice if 
desired and sweeten to taste. 

BRAN TEA. 

Slightly brown a quantity of bran in slow oven. Use 
four tablespoonfuls to one quart water. Boil ten minutes. 
Serve same as tea, with or without cream and sugar. By 
adding white of egg, flavor will be greatly improved. 

29 



BRAN DRINK. 

Put one-half pint bran in earthenware vessel, over which 
pour two quarts cold water; stir well and set in the sun 
for two to three hours. Strain through linen cloth and set 
in cool place, when it will be ready for use. Fruit juices 
may be added, but as a nervine it is better plain. Used with 
wild cherry cordial or grape jelly it will prove refreshing to 
invalids. 

TOAST WATER. 

Toast two slices wheat bread in moderate oven until well 
browned. Break in small pieces and put in graniteware 
coflFee-pot, pour over two quarts boiling water and simmer 
five minutes. Serve with cream and sugar to taste. 

BARLEY WATER. 

Boil two ounces of pearl barley in one-half pint water 
forty-five minutes, then add two quarts boiling water and a 
few chopped figs and seeded raisins. Boil thirty minutes, 
and strain ; add a little lemon juice and sweeten to taste. 

FLAXSEED LEMONADE. 

Over four tablespoonfuls whole flaxseed pour one quart 
boiling water, add juice of two lemons ; let steep three 
hours, keeping closely covered. Sweeten to taste with rock 
candy. Excellent for colds. 

BRAN LEMONADE. 

As a summer drink nothing will be found more refresh- 
ing than bran-lemonade. It is made as follows: To one- 
half pint bran add one quart water, and let stand for one- 
half hour in a cool place. Pour off water and add the juice 
of four lemons ; sweeten to taste with powdered sugar. The 
phosphates of the bran, which have been absorbed by the 
water, quickly revive the fagged-out brain and nerves and 
relieve that "tired feeling;" besides the acid of the lemon 
is very cooling to the blood in hot weather. 

80 



HOT LEMONADE. 

Bake two lemons in the oven until soft. Squeeze out the 
contents into a porcelain or graniteware vessel. Add two 
tablespoonfuls powdered sugar and one pint boiling water. 
Stir well and drink when sufficiently cooled. Should be 
taken only just before retiring. Very valuable in cases of 
colds and pulmonary disorders. 

BLACKBERRY WINE. 

Take a quantity of blackberries, extract the juice either 
by pressing through sieve or by heating on the fire. To 
each quart of juice add one-half pound of sugar. Boil ten 
to fifteen minutes, then bottle in the usual manner. The 
flavor will be improved by the addition of a little cinnamon. 
Will keep indefinitely. When serving, dilute with water to 
taste. Very delicious. 

APPLE DRINK. 

Cut two pounds of apples, keeping the skins, pits, cores, 
seeds, etc., into halves or quarters and boil in three pints 
of water until apples become absolutely tasteless. Strain the 
liquid and use either warm or cold. Prune, raisin and fig 
drinks are prepared in the same way. Combined with regu- 
lar food will aid bowel action. 

APPLE WATER. 

Pour two quarts of boiling water over six apples, finely 
cut, peelings, cores, seeds included; one ounce of lump 
sugar, one-half of a lemon rind, fine sliced. Use earthen- 
ware jug. Cover it well. When cold strain into another jug, 
when it will be ready for use. 

GRAPE JUICE. 

To six quarts stemmed and washed grapes add two quarts 
water. Bring slowly to a boil, then strain through a flannel 
bag. Return juice to the fire, bring again to the boil, bottle 
and seal at once. Upon opening for use, sweeten to taste 
with granulated sugar and serve in wine glasses. 

81 



CAKES. 

In the making and use of cakes and pastry it is well to 
have a certain knowledge of chemistry and digestion. The 
principal ingredients of cakes are white flour (starch),, 
sugar and oil ; all three being carbon, differing only in 
form. When separate, and properly prepared, they are not 
difficult to digest; but when combined, without due knowl- 
edge, into one mass, they form a mixture revolting to a 
sensitive stomach. The fact that sugar is digested prin- 
cipally in the mouth and throat, starch in the stomach, and 
animal oils emulsified in the duodenum, is sufficient evi- 
dence that harmful results follow the taking into the stomach 
of these three forms of carbon incorporated into one con- 
sistent mass. Scientific investigation has proved that only 
vegetable oils, such as olive, cottonseed, and cocoanut, can, 
in Umited quantities, be digested in the stomach ; while 
animal fats cannot be digested, so must pass to the duode- 
num, there to be emulsified by the action of the bile and 
pancreatic juices before they can be assimilated. Again, 
when the starch cells have been surrounded with animal 
fats, the action of the gastric juices is impaired and diges- 
tion is prevented ; fermentation and acidulation follows. 
From this it can readily be seen that animal fats have no 
place whatever in cookery, and that they should be entirely 
superseded by vegetable oils. Cakes, when made with vege- 
table oils and eaten only in small quantities as a dessert, 
are not harmful to well-being. Do not bake cakes in tin 
pans. The oxide of tin, formed by the heat during baking, 
permeates the cake and poisons the system when eaten. Use 
pans made from graniteware, earthenware or aluminum. Be 
sure the flour is perfectly dry. Have eggs cold before 
whipping. Bake large cakes in a moderate oven. Lay a 
sheet of clean, white paper on top of cake when first placed 
in the oven to prevent a sudden formation of a top crust 
which would interfere with its rising. Remove the paper 

83 



when the cake has become thoroughly heated and well 
raised, otherwise it will not brown. A pan of water set in 
the oven alongside of the cake is often advantageous in 
preventing burning. To insure fine cakes beat the oil with a 
fork after heating. 

ALMOND COOKIES. 

Into three cupfuls flour put one tablespoonful cinnamon 
cream, one cupful blanched and finely-chopped almonds, 
adding one and a half cupfuls sugar, three-quarters of a 
cup melted butter and, lastly, the yolks of six eggs. Beat 
thoroughly. Drop small spoonfuls on a well-oiled pan and 
bake to a light brown. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Cream one-half cupful oil with one and a half cupfuls 
sugar. Cream until very light. Add one and a half tea- 
spoonfuls vanilla, one teaspoonful lemon, one cupful warm 
water, and sprinkle gradually three cupfuls of well-sifted 
flour. Beat for five minutes, then add the whites of six 
well-beaten and frothed eggs. Bake for forty-five minutes 
in well-oiled pan. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Into six well-beaten eggs put three tablespoonfuls cold 
water, grated rind of one lemon and one pint sugar, lastly 
stir in one pint flour. Work it all quickly and bake without 
delay. 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE. 

Beat half a cupful butter to a cream, and gradually beat 
into it one cupful sugar. When this is light, beat in half a 
cupful sweet milk, one teaspoonful vanilla. Beat the whites 
of six eggs to a stiff froth. Mix half a teaspoonful baking 
powder with two scant cupfuls flour. Stir the flour and 
whites of eggs alternately into the mixture. Have three 
deep baking plates well oiled, and spread two-thirds of the 
batter in two of them. Into the remaining batter stir one 

83 



ounce of melted chocolate, and spread this batter in the 
third plate. Bake the cakes in a moderate oven for about 
twenty minutes. Put a layer of white cake on a large plate, 
and spread with white glace. Put the dark cake on this, and 
also spread with white glace. On this put the third cake. 
Spread with chocolate glace. 

SAND HEARTS. 

Cream into one-half pound of butter one pound of sugaf 
and one pound of flour with yolks of three eggs. Roll very 
thin. Take another yolk and beat up with sweet milk and 
a little nutmeg. Wet the tops of cakes with it before 
baking. 

OATMEAL FLAKES. 

Beat very light two eggs. Add four tablespoonfuls cold 
water, two cupfuls raw oatmeal and one cupful sugar, 
creamed in one and a half pounds butter, one teaspoonful 
soda. Enough flour to roll thin. Bake quickly. 

CHOCOLATE GLACE. 

Put into a granite or earthenware saucepan one-half pint 
sugar and one-fourth cupful water, boil gently until bubbles 
begin to come from the bottom, say five minutes. Take from 
the fire instantly. Do not stir or shake the sugar while 
cooking. Pour the hot syrup in a thin stream into the whites 
of two eggs that have been beaten to a stiflf froth, beating 
the mixture all the time. Continue to beat until the glace 
is thick. Flavor with one teaspoonful of vanilla. Use two- 
thirds of this as a white icing and to the remaining third 
add one ounce of melted chocolate. To melt the chocolate, 
shave it fine and put it in a cup, which is then to be placed in 
a pan of boiling water. 

CHOCOLATE-MARSHMALLOW CAKE. 

Sift one and one-half cupfuls flour with one heaping tea- 
spoonful baking powder. Cream four ounces cocoanut but- 
ter with one-half pound pulverized sugar; add yolks of 

34 



three well-beaten eggs. Beat whites of three eggs to stiff 
froth. Mix all with flour, adding slowly one gill sweet 
milk. Flavor with one-half teaspoonful vanilla and bake 
in two jelly-cake pans. 

MABSHMALLOW FILLING. 

Boil four ounces chocolate and one-half cup sugar in 
one-fourth cup water until it will form a thread between 
the fingers. Take one-half pound marshmallow candy, dis- 
solve in one tablespoonful boiling water and add to choco- 
late. When cool, spread one-half of the filling over each 
layer ; put them together and on the top one sprinkle finely- 
chopped nuts. 

WEDDING CAKE. 

Sift three teaspoonfuls baking powder into one pound 
flour. Cream one pound cocoanut butter with one pound 
powdered sugar, to which mix well the beaten yolks of 
twelve eggs, then add one-half the flour, one tablespoonful 
each cinnamon, ginger, cloves and mace, one cup maple 
syrup or sorghum. Add alternately the beaten whites and 
balance of flour; mix well. Chop well two pounds each 
seeded layer raisins, currants, citron, almonds, and one- 
half pound each dates and figs. Add one-half glassful 
grape juice and mix the whole. Put in two large pans and 
bake two hours or more in moderate oven. This cake will 
keep in a cool place for three months. 

RAY'S SHORT CAKE. 

Sift together two cupfuls whole-wheat flour and two 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, add one-third cupful clarified 
butter and one cupful sweet milk. Roll in two layers, each 
one-half inch thick, and bake well. 

STRAWBERRY FILLING. 

Mash one quart strawberries in an earthenware dish and 
add powdered sugar to sweeten; set dish in hot oven until 
berries are well heated ; remove and spread between and on 
top of the layers. Serve with cream. 

35 



CEANBERRY FILLING. 

Pick and wash carefully one quart cranberries. Cook five 
minutes in granite or earthen vessel, using siifficient water 
to cover, then pour off water, and add same quantity boiling 
water and after cooking two or three hours, mash through 
colander. Add sufficient sugar to sweeten, then set on back 
of range and simmer for twenty minutes. Spread between 
and on top of layers and serve with cream. 

NUT-FRUIT FILLING. 

Pick and wash carefully one quart cranberries. Cook 
five minutes in graniteware vessel, with sufficient water to 
cover, pour off water and add same quantity boiling water, 
cook two hours and mash through colander. Add sufficient 
sugar to sweeten, set on back of range and boil twenty 
minutes. When cold, add one pint finely-chopped or ground 
almonds or walnuts, spread between and on top of layers and 
serve with cream. 

GINGER CAKE. 

To five beaten eggs mix well one cupful granulated sugar ; 
add one-fourth teaspoonful each ground cloves and cinna- 
mon, one tablespoonful ground ginger, one-fourth pound 
shredded candied lemon and orange peel, and two cupfuls 
flour into which has been well sifted one teaspoonful baking 
powder. When well mixed, add one-half pound Jordan 
almonds, previously blanched, slightly browned and chopped. 
Put in large pan and bake one-half hour in moderate oven. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Cream one-half cupful cocoanut or clarified butter with 
one cupful powdered sugar and one egg, add one and one- 
half cupfuls sweet milk and one-fourth teaspoonful ground 
cinnamon. Sift together one and one-half pints flour and 
one-half teaspoonful baking powder ; mix all to a soft dough ; 
roll out to one-half inch thidcness on well-floured board, cut 
out with biscuit cutter and boil to dark-brown color in hot 
cocoanut butter, olive or cooking oil. Serve with powdered 
sugar. 

36 



NUT-FRUIT SHORT CAKE. 

Sift together one teaspoonful baking- powder and one 
cupful flour, add one cupful sugar, two tablespoonfuls melted 
clarified or cocoanut butter, two well-beaten eggs and three 
tablespoonfuls sweet milk. Have all as cold as Dossible, mix 
quickly with wooden spoon, put in two jelly-cake pans and 
bake in quick oven. 

TEA CAKE. 

Cream one-half cupful cocoanut butter with' one and one- 
half cupfuls powdered or granulated sugar, then add one- 
half cupful milk. Beat two eggs until very light. Sift 
together one teaspoonful baking powder with two cupfuls 
flour. Add to the creamed butter the flour and eggs alter- 
nately, then follow with one teaspoonful cinnamon, one-half 
teaspoonful cloves, one tablespoonful lemon juice, and one- 
half pound seeded raisins chopped and floured. Bake in 
moderate oven until oicely browned. 

FRUIT CAKE, PAR EXCELLENCE. 

Take five pounds seeded layer raisins, two pounds seed- 
less raisins or cleaned currants, one pound figs, one pound 
citron, one-half pound candied orange peel, one-half pound 
candied cherries, two ounces candied ginger, one teaspoon- 
ful ground cinnamon ; chop well and mix thoroughly, or, 
better still, grind all together with a vegetable chopper. 
Cream one pound cocoanut butter with one pound flour. 
Separate sixteen eggs ; beat whites to a stiflF froth ; beat 
yolks with one pound pulverized sugar until light, then 
add alternately a spoonful each of beaten whites and the 
creamed butter and flour ; beat and mix well. Add the fruit 
and one pint grape juice ; mix thoroughly and put in large 
oiled pan and bake two hours in moderate oven. The 
longer this cake is kept the better it will get. Keep well 
wrapped in a close box. Almond meats may be used as a 
substitute for the candied cherries. Sometimes one pint 
of grape brandy with grape juice combined improves the 
cake with age. 

S7 



CANDIES. 



Pure home-made candies, eaten in moderate quantities 
only after a meal, are not injurious to the system. Chil- 
dren are often benefited by occasionally eating a small 
amount of wholesome sweets after a meal, but not before, 
as digestion is thereby impaired. Do not use cheap can- 
dies sold at the stores ; they contain glucose and poisonous 
coloring matter. Avoid the use of syrups which contain 
glucose. Few brands are free from it, and it is better to 
make all syrup from sugar at home. Maple syrup, when 
pure, is the most healthful. Glucose is made by subjecting 
corn starch to the action of sulphuric acid and heat, and 
it has been demonstrated that the use of this product will 
cause Bright's disease and other kidney disorders. Sorghum 
should be used only for cooking, and in moderate quantities. 
The same may be said of New Orleans molasses. Thor- 
oughly wash the teeth after eating. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS NO, 1. 

Beat whites of two eggs to stiff froth, and into this beat 
gradually two teacupfuls powdered sugar. Flavor with 
one-half teaspoonful vanilla and work to stiff dough, adding 
a little more sugar if necessary. Shape into small cones 
and lay on oiled plates or paper. Let stand one hour or 
more. Put five ounces shaved chocolate into a bowl, set 
in saucepan containing boiling water and put on the fire. 
When chocolate is melted, remove pan to table and drop 
creams one at a time in chocolate, remove with fork and 
lay on oiled plates or paper. They will harden in about 
one-half hour. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS NO. 2. 

Prepare a fondant by putting into a graniteware sauce- 
pan two cupfuls granulated sugar and one cupful water. 

38 



Stir until sugar is nearly dissolved; place on fire and heat 
slowly, but do not stir or jar saucepan. Watch carefully 
and note when it begins to boil. After boiling ten minutes, 
drop a small quantity into cold water; if it hardens suf- 
ficiently to form a soft ball when rolled between thumb and 
finger, it has been boiled sufficiently. Take saucepan from 
fire immediately and set in a cool, dry place. When syrup 
has cooled so that finger can be held in it comfortably, pour 
it into a bowl and stir with wooden spoon until thick and 
white. When a little dry and hard, take out spoon and 
work with hand until soft and smooth. Flavor with a few 
drops of vanilla, and, after shaping, cover with chocolate 
as in recipe No. i. 

CANDIED FRUITS. 

Take one pound cut-loaf sugar ; dip each lump into a bowl 
of water and put in preserving kettle. Boil down and 
skim until perfectly clear and in a candying state. Have 
ready fruit to be candied, such as cherries, grapes, currants, 
oranges divided into sections, sliced pineapple, peaches, 
plums, etc., wipe but do not wet. Dip fruit in prepared 
sugar while hot ; let remain a few minutes ; remove and put 
on oiled plates or paper to harden. If carefully done, will 
keep indefinitely. 

NUT CANDY. 

Put one pound light-brown New Orleans sugar in gran- 
iteware saucepan and add four tablespoonfuls water; stir 
until dissolved, then put on fire and boil. Have ready one 
pound nut meats and when first sign of graining is noticed, 
stir in nuts ; take from fire and pour in oiled plates or pans. 
When cold cut in bars. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Put two pounds brown sugar in graniteware saucepan, 
add one-half cake chocolate finely shaved, one-half pint 
sweet cream, one heaping teaspoonful cocoanut butter, 
vanilla flavoring to taste. Boil until quite thick, pour into 
buttered dishes to cool. When sufficiently cooled, cut into 
sections. 

89 



CONDIMENTS and SPICES. 

Great danger attends the frequent use of stimulating 
condiments, and the digestive organs may be so habituated 
to their presence that plain food seems insipid. Such con- 
ditions cause a perversion of the appetite, and a long train 
of evils follows. Spicy condiments afford no nutrition and 
are not essential to the process of digestion in a healthy 
state of the system. Though they may in some cases assist 
the action of a debilitated stomach for a time, yet their 
continual use never fails to produce a weakness of that 
organ, the effect being the same as that of alcohol or other 
stimulants — present relief at the expense of the future suf- 
fering. 

Black and white peppers and nutmegs should not be 
used ; they are active poisons and produce dangerous re- 
sults, even in small quantities. 

Horse-radish and mustard are first cousins, and are not 
harmful if used occasionally. 

Cloves, allspice, mace, and cinnamon should be used 
sparingly. 

Red pepper, ginger, and salt have medicinal properties 
and their use in moderate proportions is very beneficial. 

Vinegar should not be used, as the acetic acid which it 
contains is highly injurious to the delicate lining of the 
stomach; substitute lime or lemon juice. 

The use of savory herbs, such as thyme, parsley, sage, 
sweet marjoram, mint, and garlic, and caraway, celery, and 
dill seeds in soups, salads, sauces, etc., are very beneficial 
and act as a very mild stimulant. 

The following spices, if used sparingly, will prove bene- 
ficial, and when combined with fruits: Cinnamon, mace, 
saffron, nutmeg, cloves, allspice, citron, lemon and orange 
peels, also vanilla and fruit flavoring extracts. Savories 
should be avoided as much as possible. 

*0 



CROQUETTES. 



CHEESE. 

To two cupfuls grated cream cheese add one-half cupful 
peanutta (recipe will be found under head of "Nuts"), one 
level teaspoonful salt, dash cayenne pepper, whites of two 
eggs. Mix thoroughly ; roll into small balls, dip into beaten 
yolks of eggs, then roll into cracker-dust, then again into 
beaten yolks, then again into cracker-dust, then fry to a 
golden brown in a deep pan of hot oil. Serve with tomato 
sauce, 

CHESTNUT. 

Put three cupfuls milk in saucepan, set on fire and when 
it begins to boil add the soft portion of one-half loaf of 
bread, mixing well ; then add thirty roasted chestnuts well 
pounded, two well-beaten eggs, two tablespoonfuls ground 
walnuts, two tablespoonfuls finely-chopped parsley, one 
tablespoonful salt, dash cayenne pepper. Mix thoroughly, 
boil three minutes, then take from fire and set to cool for 
one hour. Form into shapes, roll into beaten eggs and 
cracker dust and fry in hot oil. Serve with tomato sauce 
or catsup. 

PEANUT. 

Mix well together three cupfuls ground raw or slightly- 
roasted peanuts, one cupful cereal of any kind, two level 
teaspoon fuls salt, three tablespoonfuls chopped parsley, two 
tablespoonfuls onion juice, good dash cayenne pepper. 
Cream two tablespoonfuls clarified butter or oil with three 
tablespoonfuls flour, mix with one pint boiling milk until 
smooth and thick. Add this to the foregoing preparation of 
nuts, etc., and set away to cool ; then form into desired 
shape, roll in bread crumbs or cracker-dust and beaten 
egg, and fry in hot oil to a golden brown. Serve with 
dressing or catsup. 

41 



DAIRY FOODS, 

As milk, cream, butter, cheese and eggs, should be used in 
combination with other foods only and are adapted with the 
use of grains, pulses, fruit, vegetables and nuts, 

MILK AND CREAM 

Should be kept in earthenware vessels, whether for use 
while sweet or for the purposes of thickening, creaming, 
skimming or cheesing. Soured milk used with tomato or 
lemon juice and sun-dried bread proves a refreshing meal. 
Whenever sweetening the cream with honey or other 
saccharine substances salt your milk and add a pinch of 
borax or saleratus to avoid action. 

CHEESE. 

Use it sparingly, remembering that it should be combined 
with other dishes. Cheese melted, cooked and baked is 
more easily digested than in its raw state. 

SCHMIERKASE. 

This is made from clabbered milk. After taking the 
cream from the top of a pan of thick, sour milk, stand the 
pan on the back part of the range and pour over it about 
three quarts of boiling water ; then turn the whole into a 
bag to drain. Hang it in a cool place over night. When 
ready to use, mix and beat it until light. Add salt and 
sufficient sweet cream to make it the proper consistency. 
A little caraway seed may be mixed with the cheese if one 
likes them. Finely-chopped green onion tops, mustard 
leaves, green parsley, fresh green tansy leaves and sheaves 
are often used for flavoring. Advisable in certain peculiar 
cases of private troubles. Roll the cheese out into balls. 
Serve with lettuce leaves garnished with watercress. Fine 
with vegetable salads and crackers. 

42 



DRESSINGS. 



The success of making dressings depends upon the 
cleanliness of the utensils used. First of all you want to 
have your bowl cold. If needs be kept on ice. The eggs 
as well as the oil must be cold. If needs be drop a piece 
of ice into the oil to cool it. Always stir in one direction 
and stir or beat well. 

Should you ever have trouble with your dressing curdling 
on you then begin again with the yolk of eggs in another 
dish, and after thorough beating and stirring add by tea- 
spoonfuls the curdled mayonnaise and finish by adding 
more oil. 

Mayonnaise dressings should not be kept for more than 
a week, even though stored away in a cool place. 

You may add whipped cream, nut creams, powdered 
coriander seeds, onion juice, chopped olives, capers, pemen- 
toes, etc., to your dressing; all depending upon the kind of 
dish you intend to use it for. 

Never mix dressing with salad until ready for serving. 

MAYONNAISE WITHOUT OIL. 

To one-half cupful lemon or lime juice, add one tea- 
spoonful dry mustard, the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, 
one-half teaspoonful sugar, dash of cayenne pepper, and 
pinch of salt ; beat well and add slowly one-fourth pint rich, 
sweet cream. Cook in double boiler until it thickens. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

Into a bowl put one-half teaspoonful salt and one-half 
teaspoonful mustard ; add gradually six tablespoonfuls olive 
or salad oil, rubbing constantly ; then add very slowly, while 
stirring, one tablespoonful lemon or lime juice. The advan- 

43 



tage of this dressing is that any kind of flavoring may be 
added, such as Worcestershire or tobasco sauce, catsup, 
onion juice, garlic, etc. 

MAYONNAISE. 

Put yolks of two eggs into a cold bowl, stir with wooden 
or plated fork until light ; add one-fourth teaspoonful salt, 
then drop by drop, salad or olive oil. Time will be saved 
and danger of curdling avoided if oil and eggs are cold. 
After eight tablespoon fuls of oil have been added, begin to 
add alternately, one or two drops at a time, lemon or lime 
juice and oil, allowing two tablespoonfuls juice to each 
pint of oil. By adding lemon juice and oil alternately, a 
jelly-like or oily condition is prevented and the dressing 
will be nice and smooth. Stir in one direction only. More 
or less oil may be added, according to quantity of dressing 
desired. Do not add seasoning to dressing; it is better to 
season the salad. 

NICE DRESSING. 

Take the yolk of one hard-boiled egg, rub through a sieve, 
mix in a bowl with the yolk of one raw egg; add a pinch 
of salt, a dash of cayenne pepper and one teaspoonful mus- 
tard. While stirring one way with a wooden spoon, add 
slowly and alternately eight tablespoonfuls olive or salad 
oil and two tablespoonfuls lemon or lime juice; lastly add 
two tablespoonfuls finely-chopped olives, parsley and celery 
leaves. Excellent to serve with cold asparagus. 

SIMPLICITY DRESSING. 

Into a cold bowl beat three tablespoonfuls of olive oil ; 
add two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, one tablespoonful 
each of onion juice and finely-chopped parsley, a dash of 
cayenne pepper and salt. This quantity will serve with half 
a dozen eggs and suffice serving salads for three individual 
dishes. 



44 



SAUCES. 



MINT SAUCE. 

Mix one tablespoonful white sugar with one cupful lemon 
juice and add finely-chopped mint. Parsley may be sub- 
stituted for mint. Serve with green peas and other vege- 
tables. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

To one cupful of milk add a dash of cayenne pepper and 
celery salt. Allow it to come to the boiling point. Now 
take one tablespoonful each of flour and oil. Cream it well 
and add to the milk as soon as the latter begins to simmer. 
Stir in well and until smooth. 

BREAD SAUCE. 

Cook in double boiler for thirty minutes two cupfuls milR, 
one-half cupful toasted bread crumbs, and one small onion. 
Remove onion and add a little salt and cayenne pepper, then 
one tablespoonful olive oil, or one tablespoonful cocoanut 
butter creamed with one teaspoonful peanut butter. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Take a pint of tomato liquor to the scalding point; add 
the juice of one onion, one or two bruised leaves of bay, a 
pinch of salt and sugar. Boil all together for five minutes, 
then strain and add a pinch of saleratus. Mix one table- 
spoonful of whole-wheat flour with one tablespoonful of 
olive oil and when well blended stir it into the tomato juice, 
and boil until thickened into the consistency of cream. May 
be thinned with milk or crearn to suit taste. 

46 



SWEET TOMATO SAUCE. 

Boil for one hour four tomatoes, with sufficient water to 
cover, together with one small onion, one tablespoonful 
sugar, one tablespoonful lemon juice, a pinch of mustard, 
ginger, and cinnamon, two sprigs each of parsley and pep- 
permint ; then strain. Brown one tablespoonful flour in two 
tablespoonfuls cocoanut butter or olive oil, and add to above 
juice. Boil until slightly thickened. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Fry to a golden brown one finely-chopped onion in two 
tablespoonfuls cocoanut butter, then add one tablespoonful 
flour; after flour has browned stir in gradually one cupful 
sweet milk and one-half cupful clear tomato juice. Cook 
until it thickens, then flavor with one teaspoonful peanut 
butter creamed with a little milk. 

SWEET SAUCE. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls cornstarch with one cupful sugar, 
add one cupful cold water. Put in saucepan, set on fire and 
cook until it is clear and thick, then add one tablespoonful 
cocoanut butter, or olive oil, and flavor to suit taste. As 
this sauce is a combination of three forms of carbon, its 
frequent use is not advised. Do not substitute creamery 
butter, or other animal oils, for the vegetable oils given. 

BROWN SAUCE. 

Brown in oven one tablespoonful flour and mix to smooth 
paste with a little cold milk, add to one pint boiling milk 
or cream and cook for ten minutes ; add one cupful strained 
stewed tomatoes and mix thoroughly. 

BROWNED SAUCE. 

To two tablespoonfuls of flour use equal quantity of olive 
oil. Put into a pan over slow fire to brown. Stir frequently 
to avoid burning. As soon ais brown pour gradually three 

46 



cups of hot water into it, stirring it well. Add two table- 
spoonfuls of mixed nuts finely ground ; pine nuts preferable. 
As soon as perfectly smooth add one teaspoonful of mush- 
room catsup, a pinch of curry powder, celery salt and a 
bruised bay leaf. Allow it all to boil up slowly, when it 
will be ready for use either in soups to improve flavor or 
taste, for serving symposia, fritters, spaghetti dishes, eggs 
and salads. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Make a sauce same as Browned Sauce. Add a can of 
finely-cut mushrooms, including the liquor. Simmer for 
five minutes after adding the mushrooms. 

BREAD SAUCE. 

To one pint of rnilk in saucepan add one onion, blade of 
mace, salt and cayenne pepper to suit taste. Stew gently. 
As soon as onion is cooked take it out and add enough stale 
bread crumbs to thicken. Stir but little and do not allow 
it to come to a boil. 

NUN'S BUTTER. 

Beat one-quarter cup of butter to a cream, add gradually 
one cup of powdered sugar and beat until very light; add 
the whites of two eggs, one at a time, and beat again until 
frothy. This is to be flavored with a tablespoonful of 
sherry wine, but if wine is not used take a teaspoonful of 
extract of almond and add gradually to the mixture and 
beat once more. Heap it on a small dish, sprinkle lightly 
with grated nutmeg, and stand away on the ice to harden. 



47 



EGGS. 



Although eggs can be had all the year round, nevertheless 
they have their season. When eggs are cheap and plentiful 
they are most wholesome and that is the time they are in 
season. 

Nearly everyone, changing from carnivorousness to vege- 
tarianism, starts in on eggs as their principal diet, not know- 
ing just what to select. It is well to remember that persons 
troubled by a torpid liver or kidney disease must use cau- 
tion and care in eating eggs unless latter are being com- 
bined with mushrooms, spinach, peas and asparagus. 

Probably no article of diet receives more abuse at the 
hands of the cook than eggs. They answer admirably as 
food when properly prepared, but as usually served are 
valueless, and the human stomach would thankfully avoid 
their introduction, were it possible. Chemical analysis of 
the egg shows that the white is almost pure albumen ; 
and that the yolk is composed of albumen, fats and phos- 
phates. The yellow color of the yolk is due to a peculiar 
oil, made up chiefly of sulphur and phosphorus, whicfi 
forms nearly two-thirds by weight of the perfectly dry 
yolk. If eggs are to be served in a wholesome state, it is 
necessary to prepare them intelligently, with a thorough 
knowledge of the effect of heat upon their component parts. 
In cooking eggs it must be remembered that albumen is 
completely coagulated below a temperature of 170 degrees 
Fahrenheit, and any greater heat will make this substance 
tough, horny and indigestible. Eggs, being a concentrated 
food, should be eaten sparingly. In cases of kidney troubles, 
gout and rheumatism, they will not be harmful provided 
they have been hard-boiled or poached according to instruc- 
tions following. Eggs, hard-boiled or poached at a tem- 
perature of 212 degrees Fahrenheit, or fried, are deleterious 
to persons suffering from these disorders, because the 

48 



albumen, having been rendered tough and indigestible, fer- 
ments easily in the stomach and forms acids that are poison- 
ous to the system. Eggs should not be eaten when fried, 
but raw or in custards, boiled or poached, according^ to 
following methods: 

SOPT-BOILINO. 

This method is not as advisable as those subsequent, as 
the albumen is only partially coagulated and in this state 
is not so easily digested. Allow one pint of water to each 
Qgg. If you wish to boil six eggs, put them in a large pan ; 
take six pints of water, put in a kettle or pan and bring to 
steaming point (not boiling), over the fire; pour water over 
the eggs and set on back portion of stove five to eight min- 
utes. If the water has been the right temperature, the 
eggs will be ready to serve. 

HARD-BOILING. 

Put in cold water, bring to 170 degrees Fahrenheit (about 
steaming point), set on back of stove for forty-five minutes. 
In this way the albumen will be reduced to a jelly-like 
substance, easily digested, and the yolks will be dry and 
mealy. A double boiler may be used to advantage, the tem- 
perature being more easily controlled, but the water in outer 
vessel must be continuously kept near the boiling point, as 
the contents of inner boiler will be heated to a less degree. 

SCRAMBLED 

Eggs and omelets should be cooked at low temperature in 
double boiler, but not fried. 

POACHING. 

Put eggs in water of a temperature of 132 to 160 degrees. 
Have enough water to cover, and as soon as film has formed 
over yolk and white is set and jelly-like, remove from water 
and serve at once. The use of egg-poachers is advised. 
Always keep water below boiling point. Remove the life 

40 



germ from eggs broken for poaching or cooking purposes, 
as it is heating to the system. 

CUSTARDS. 

It is preferable to cook custards in a double boiler rather 
than baking in an oven. If put in a china or earthenware 
bowl, set in a steam cooker and boil until done, the flavor 
will be found admirable. Do not flavor custards with nut- 
meg; this spice is objectionable because its poisonous prop- 
erties often produce cholera morbus. 

LENTEN CHOPS. 

Boil six eggs fifteen minutes, remove the shells, rub 
yolks through a sieve and chop whites, not making them too 
fine. Put one cup of milk in pan over fire and when boiling 
stir in two tablespoonfuls of whole-wheat flour dissolved in 
two tablespoonfuls of olive oil ; season with salt and a dash 
of cayenne pepper and stir until thick and smooth ; take 
from the fire and when almost cool stir in the prepared 
yolks and whites and a very little onion juice. When cold 
enough to handle form in shape of chops, roll them in beaten 
egg, then in cracker dust or corn meal and fry to a deli- 
cate brown in olive oil. Take a piece of macaroni about 
three or four inches long and stick into the small or pointed 
end of each chop and arrange in the center of a platter. 
Now take tomato or browned sauce and add to the same 
a can of French peas or extra small sifted peas and pour 
around the chops, but not on them. Mushrooms and tomato 
sauce make a very fine garnish when served with green 
parsley and lettuce leaves. 

COLUMBUS EGGS. 

Put the shells from six hard-boiled eggs and cut each egg 
in two around the center, cutting oflf a little from the small 
end so that it can stand upright, as did the famous egg 
which Columbus handled ; pulverize half the yolks and mix 
with some finely-chopped nuts, moistening with mayonnaise 
dressing; fill the empty whites, taking care not to break 

50 



them; press the two parts together and stand on a plattct 
so that they will have the appearance of eggs that have not 
been dissected. Now take the remaining half of the yolks, 
pulverize or mash them through a sieve ; take half a cup of 
mayonnaise dressing and mix with it six olives chopped 
fine and pour this over the eggs ; then take the pulverized 
yolks and sprinkle over the top. Garnish the edges with 
watercress or sprigs of parsley. 

SWISS EGGS. 

Cover the bottom of an open baking dish with a little 
olive oil and on this scatter grated cheese ; drop the eggs 
upon the cheese without breaking the yolks and season with 
a very little salt. Pour over the eggs a little cream and 
then sprinkle over with grated cheese and set in moderate 
oven for about fifteen minutes. Serve with tomato sauce. 

POACHED EGGS ON TOAST. 

Toast slices of whole-wheat or rye bread to a golden 
brown in a moderate oven ; while yet hot, dip them into 
boiling water for a few seconds ; remove quickly and lay on 
large platter. On each slice lay one poached tgg; garnish 
with parsley or cress and serve hot. 

DEVILED EGGS. 

Take six hard-boiled eggs, which have been dropped into 
cold water immediately after boiling ; peel and cut in halves, 
taking care not to break whites. Take out yolks and rub 
them with one tablespoonful olive oil to a smooth paste ; 
add two tablespoonfuls chopped mushrooms and parsley 
flavored with lemon juice. Heat and mix well ; then stuff 
whites, garnish with lettuce or watercress and serve. 

BELGRAD EGGS. 

Take off the shells from six hard-boiled eggs, chop the 
whites fine and rub the yolks through a sieve. Do not mix 
them. Now put on a cup of milk to boil, rub a tablespoon- 

51 



ful of cornstarch with a tablespoonful of oHve oil and add 
to the boiling milk; then add the chopped whites, a little 
salt and a dash of cayenne pepper. Have ready a half dozen 
squares of toasted salt-rising bread on a platter, pour the 
mixture over the toast in a thin layer, then a layer of the 
prepared yolks, then the remainder of the whites and lastly 
the rest of the yolks. Serve on lettuce leaves, garnished 
with parsley. Mushrooms, with lemon or asparagus and 
tomatoes, combine well with this dish. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Break six eggs into a bowl ; add one pint hot milk and 
stir quickly. Add small spoonful cocoanut butter and a little 
salt; cook twenty minutes in double boiler. , 

POACHED EGGS WITH MUSHROOMS. 

To one can mushrooms placed in saucepan add one-half 
teaspoonful salt, a dash of cayenne pepper and a few drops 
lemon juice. Boil ten minutes, take out mushrooms and 
thicken sauce with a little flour. Pour sauce on platter, lay 
ten poached eggs around the outside, put mushrooms in 
center; serve hot with toast. 

CHEESE OMELET. 

Mix to a smooth paste three tablespoonfuls flour with 
one-half pint milk. Beat together four eggs and one-fourth 
pound of grated old cheese. Add this to flour and milk, 
beating briskly for several minutes. May be cooked in 
individual dishes set in pan of boiling water, or in double 
boiler; boil thirty minutes. Serve with catsup or tomato 
sauce. 

VEGETABLE OMELET. 

Chop finely together one onion, two heads crisp lettuce, 
or parsley, and one green pepper, adding a little salt. Mix 
with four well-beaten eggs and three tablespoonfuls cream. 
Cook thirty minutes in double boiler or steam cooker. Serve 
in original dish. 

53 



FRITTERS AND PATTIES. 



BREAD FRITTERS. 

Take stale bread, toast it in slices after it has first been 
dipped into cold water. Make a batter of one cupful of 
flour, one yolk and the white of an egg, each well beaten, 
a pinch of cinnamon, salt and sugar, and one-half cupful 
of milk. Dip toast into cold water again and then into the 
batter and drop into hot oil. They will be done in one 
minute. 

VEGETABLE FRITTERS. 

Grind coarse one cupful each of carrots and parsnips 
and one-half cupful salsify. Boil them for thirty minutes 
in separate vessels. Pour off water and allow to cool. Now 
mix them together with one and one-half cupfuls flour and 
one cupful milk. Salt to taste. Add two tablespoonfuls of 
oil. Stir into it the yolks and whites of two well-beaten 
eggs. Fry in hot oil. 

AERATED CORN FRITTERS. 

Take a can of com or three cupfuls of fresh corn and 
mix into it one-half cupful cream. Beat separately the 
yolks and whites of two eggs. Stir in one cupful of flour 
or more, if necessary. Salt to taste and stir in three tea- 
spoonfuls of sugar with a tablespoon of oil. Stir the batter 
thoroughly in the open air or before the door or an open 
window. If the batter is not thin enough, add a little milk. 
Batter is to be medium thick. Have some oil hot and 
enough in the pan so the batter will be covered when 
dropped into the frying pan. Drop in a spoonful of the 
batter. Turn the fritters at their browned sides with a 

68 



knife. They will rise double their size and be perfectly 
aerated. Very wholesome and toothsome and especially 
adapted to those who do not like to take oil clear. They 
may use the fritters from time to time. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

To two cupfuls finely-chopped green corn, add the well- 
beaten yolks of three eggs, one-half cupful ground toast, 
one cupful milk, one level teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls 
nut butter, and the well-beaten whites of three eggs. Mix 
thoroughly; drop from spoon into hot oil and fry to a 
golden brown. 

RICE FRITTERS. 

To two cupfuls cold, well-boiled rice add two cupfuls 
cracker-dust, two teaspoonfuls sugar, two teaspoonfuls 
olive oil, or three teaspoonfuls cocoanut butter, one level 
teaspoonful salt, a dash of ground cinnamon, two well- 
beaten eggs, one cupful scalded milk. Shape into balls and 
roll into well-beaten egg, then into cracker-dust and fry to 
a nice brown in hot oil, or cocoanut butter. Serve with 
peanut or almond butter. 

TOMATO FRITTERS. 

To one can tomatoes add four cloves, two bay leaves, one 
tablespoonful finely-chopped parsley, pinch of cayenne pep- 
per, two tablespoonfuls scraped onion, one-half cupful 
toasted bread crumbs ; put in saucepan and cook on fire for 
ten minutes. Take off fire and rub through sieve all that 
is possible. Return to fire and add three tablespoonfuls 
sugar, one teaspoonful salt, three tablespoonfuls cocoanut 
butter, or two tablespoonfuls olive oil ; when boiling begins, 
add two tablespoonfuls flour mixed to a smooth paste with 
a little cold water ; boil two minutes, then pour into shallow 
dish to set. When cold and firm, turn out, cut into slices 
or various shapes, roll in beaten egg, then cracker-dust and 
fry to a golden brown in hot oil. Garnish with parsley and 
serve with catsup. 

64 



APPLE FRITTERS. 

To one cupful whole-wheat flour add yolks of two eggs, 
one-half pint milk, one tablespoonful olive oil ; beat until 
smooth. Grate slowly three peeled apples into the batter ; 
then add the beaten whites of the eggs. Drop with table- 
spoon into hot oil. Serve as desired. 

Instead of apples, seeded prunes, peaches or other fruits 
may be used. Put grape juice and powdered sugar over the 
fruit, let stand for one hour, turn once, then dip in batter 
as used for apple fritters and fry in oil, 

SALSIFY FRITTERS. 

Take one dozen oyster plants ; throw each piece, as soon 
as washed and scraped, into water to prevent discoloration. 
Cut into slices and boil in saucepan over fire until tender. 
Drain and mash through colander; add one tablespoonful 
flour, one level teaspoonful salt, two well-beaten eggs ; mix 
and drop with spoon into hot oil. When browned, serve 
with sauce to taste. 

BANANA FRITTERS. 

Cut into halves crosswise six peeled bananas, put in dish 
and sprinkle over one-half cupful powdered sugar, then 
pour on the juice of two large navel oranges ; set in cool 
place one hour, turning occasionally. Roll alternately sev- 
eral times in beaten egg and cracker-dust and fry in hot oil. 
Serve with sauce to taste. Other fruit may be used in place 
of banana for variety. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

Scrape or pare (according to age) four parsnips, cut in 
small pieces and boil until soft. When done drain off water 
and mash fine ; add one egg well beaten, one tablespoonful 
of flour, one-quarter teaspoonful salt and a dash of cayenne 
pepper. Mix well and form into cakes ; fry in olive oil until 
brown. With these fritters serve (if you eat them) potatoes 
au Gratin — made as follows : Six or seven cold boiled 
potatoes, four heaping tablespoonfuls grated cheese, one 

S6 



cup cream, one cup mifk, yolks of three eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls olive oil, one tablespoonful flour; salt and cayenne 
pepper to taste. Put the cream and milk over the fire in a 
saucepan and add the flour mixed in the oil, when beginning 
to boil ; stir until smooth, then take from the fire. Now add 
the yolks well beaten, the cheese, salt and a dash of cayenne 
pepper and mix. Put a layer of this sauce in the bottom of 
a baking dish, then a layer of potatoes cut up in small 
bits, then more sauce and more potatoes until the dish is 
filled, or, rather, until all the sauce and potatoes have been 
put in ; sprinkle an extra tablespoonful or two over the top 
and place in a hot oven for ten minutes to brown. Serve 
in the dish in which it was baked. This makes a delicious 
dinner with the addition of cream of bean soup. 

JOLLY BOYS FRITTERS. 

Mix one pint of rye meal, one cup whole-wheat flour, 
one-half cup corn meal, two large teaspoonfuls of sugar, 
one teaspoonful ground cinnamon and one-half teaspoonful 
of salt ; then add four eggs well beaten, two tablespoonfuls 
of molasses, and enough cold water to make a very thick 
batter ; beat well and set aside for an hour or more. Drop 
by the spoonful into a kettle of hot oil. Brown on both 
sides, take out with a skimmer and serve very hot. The 
batter should be almost as thick as soft dough. Nun's butter 
should accompany these fritters. 

BREAD FRITTERS. 

Soak one-half loaf bread in milk ; mash fine and add one 
tablespoonful flour, two well-beaten eggs, one-half cupful 
currants or seedless raisins, one grated rind of lemon. Mix 
well and drop from spoon in hot oil. Fry to golden brown ; 
serve garnished with lettuce or cress. 

CORN OYSTER FRITTERS. 

One can of corn, three eggs, beaten separately, one-fourth 
cupful of milk, a little salt. Enough flour to make a light 
batter. Use things in routine as given. Drop into hot oil 
with a spoon and bake until brown. 

56 



FRUITS. 



Fruits are nature's panacea for human ills. They contain 
all the medicinal properties needed to keep man in a state 
of health. Their judicious use will "cool the fevered brow 
and stay the tottering footsteps to the grave." As there is 
such a great variety of fruits, it is scarcely possible to speak 
separately of every one in a publication with limited space, 
but mention will be made of the most important ones in- 
digenous to the United States. Then, too, every person 
differs from every other person as to temperament and 
tastes, and no fast rule can be given which would govern all 
cases. Every person must learn by experience when a 
certain fruit is not agreeable. The principal proportions of 
each fruit mentioned will be given, and deductions must be 
drawn accordingly. 

ALL FRUITS, 

Whether for eating or cooking purposes, must be sound, 
and eaten slowly, that means to say, should be scraped 
or eaten in small bits at a time, so as to mix with saliva 
to make the fruit for what it is intended, an eliminator. 
If cooked, the whole of the fruit should be used. Always 
cook your fruit into a thick consistency with as little water 
as possible, then strain through colander. 

All dried fruit must be soaked in boiling water for sev- 
eral minutes or until soft, pouring off the water and using 
fresh water when to be cooked. Always boil fruit until 
restored to the natural sweetness without additional sugar. 

Never use sugar with your fruit, fresh or dried fruit. If 
fruit is too tart, too acid, simply combine it with fruit that 
is sweet to make the dish sub-acid. Whenever using cream 
with your fruit whip the cream first and thin it down with 
the juice of fruits, 

B7 



GRAPE FRUIT. 

Particularly adapted in cases of blood poisoning and 
an unfailing remedy in summer complaint, skin eruptions 
and blood diseases in general. Should be eaten freely. 

APPLES, 

In the past, have ofttimes been underestimated as to their 
royal qualities, and it is only in late years that their true 
values have been universally recognized. The apple may 
be justly considered the queen of fruits, though of course, 
this has no bearing on Eve's weakness in the garden re- 
corded by the ancient allegory. The nutritive value of the 
apple is about 14 per cent, and consists chiefly of carbo- 
hydrates and vegetable acids. It also contains a generous 
amount of phosphorus, which makes it particularly valuable 
to brain workers and persons with nervous tendencies ; 
also to children and to the aged. The apples have an addi- 
tional advantage over other fruits in that they can easily 
be kept on hand at all seasons of the year in a fresh 
condition without canning. Only the soft and juicy va- 
rieties, when ripe, should be eaten raw ; those hard and 
partially unripe should be boiled, particularly the variety 
known as the Ben Davis. Apples are rich in iron and are 
valuable in cases of anaemia. 

APRICOTS 

Are the result of a cross between a peach and a plum, and 
offer little of value for food. As a rule, they are woody and 
often cause distress to those who eat them. 

BANANAS 

Are a nutritious food when ripened in their native haunts, 
but those sold in northern and remote markets are to be 
used cautiously. Partial decomposition has taken place 
during the ripening process, and fermentation begins almost 
as soon as the fruit has been taken into the stomach. 
Bananas for shipment have been picked when green, and 

sa 



often stored before ripening in damp cellars, the odors of 
which the fruit readily absorbs. The banana contains about 
14 per cent nutriment, consisting chiefly of carbohydrates, 
which, when the fruit is green, is principally in the form of 
starch; but in the ripening process on the stalk this starch 
is changed to grape sugar and soluble starch, which form 
a valuable food suited to warm climates. The brown va- 
riety is sweeter than the yellow and of liner grain. Com- 
bined with other fruits and nuts may prove serviceable. 

BLACKBERRIES 

Furnish a valuable combination of acids, phosphates, iron 
and other minerals in an organized state ; but, as the seeds 
and pulp are injurious to various bodily organs, only the 
juice should be used. Boil the berries, strain through 
flannel bag and bottle the juice in an unfermented state; or 
convert into jelly. Makes a very refreshing drink, valuable 
when the blood has become impoverished and is lacking in 
iron. 

CHERRIES 

Are "food for the gods" and much might be said of their 
valuable properties. Suffice it to say that they should be 
eaten whenever desired. It is well to have a quantity 
canned that they may be on hand at all seasons of the year. 
The unfermented juice makes a valuable table wine. It 
may be made from jelly dissolved in the necessary quantity 
of water to suit the taste. 

CRANBERRIES 

Make an excellent sauce, valuable to serve with nut prepa- 
rations, but should be put through sieve or colander before 
eating. The rinds are indigestible. 

DATES, 

In dried state, contain 62 per cent carbohydrates, are very 
nutritious and should be eaten sparingly. Only first-class 
qualities should be used. 

69 



CURRANTS 

Which are imported in the dried state are seedless, and 
therefore better than home-grown varieties, which are nearly 
all rind and seeds. Only the juice of the latter should be 
used, either in the form of jelly or bottled in an unfer- 
mented state. Dried currants should be thoroughly washed 
before boiling. Boil in two waters, pouring off the first 
after five minutes' use. 

FIGS, 

In dried state, contain 70 per cent carbohydrates ; they are 
valuable as food but should be eaten sparingly. Select for 
use only those of first quality as the cheaper grades contain 
vast multitudes of animalculje which, when taken into the 
stomach, produce violent headaches. The white, sugary 
deposit, which may easily be seen by the naked eye, contains 
the animalculse ; they are visible only with the aid of a 
microscope. Raisins, prunes, dates, currants, etc., having 
these white deposits, should be carefully scrutinized for 
the same reason. 

GOOSEBERRIES 

Have no other use than to be made into jelly and jam. 
The seeds and rinds in all cases should be discarded. 

LEMONS 

Are the most valuable of all citrus fruits and their medicinal 
properties are widely known. To get the full values, they 
should be baked in a moderate oven until soft, care being 
taken that they do not burn or burst. The action of heat 
during baking forms organized salicylic acid, which is a 
valuable diaphoretic. In cases of colds and pulmonary dis- 
orders, it acts very effectively. Only organized salicylic 
acid, such as made from citrus fruits, especially the lemon, 
or pure oil of wintergreen, should ever be used as a dia- 
phoretic; the commercial acid, which is unorganized and 
made from carbolic acid (a coal tar product), is a deadly 

eo 



poison and should in no case be taken into the stomach. 
Lemon juice should take the place of vinegar at all times. 

NECTARINES 

Are the result of a cross between a plum and a peach. 
They have little to commend them more than to give addi- 
tional variety. 

ORANGES 

Furnish a delicious juice which is refreshing and very 
appetizing. May be taken to advantage in the morning 
just before breakfast. The pulp and rind should be dis- 
carded. Avoid the use of oranges the rinds of which 
contain an oil which produces a biting and stinging sensa- 
tion to the lips; the juice is poisonous to the system. The 
navel is the best variety. 

PEACHES, 

Perfectly ripe and of good quality, are wholesome in mod- 
erate quantities ; if eaten green, form a subject for another 
"Tale of Woe." The fuzzy skin should be removed from 
a peach before eating; if taken into the stomach, it often 
causes convulsions and great distress. Peach kernels con- 
tain hydrocyanic acid (a deadly poison) in a very weak 
solution, and if eaten in quantities, produce deleterious 
effects. The kernel of the plum, cherry, apricot, nectarine 
and bitter almonds also contain poisonous properties and 
should not be eaten. 

GRAPES 

Were of the earth when it was young and drank its glories 
from the gates of paradise. No fruit has more e:xcellent 
food values than the grape. From time immemorial it has 
graced the tables of the rich and poor alike, and furnished 
them with wine unequaled by the nectar of the gods. Bread 
and wine are still the chief articles of diet of many who live 
in the Orient. The salts and acids which this fruit contains 

61 



enrich the blood and do much to keep it in a state of purity. 
The seeds and rind are indigestible and should not be 
eaten. A glass of wine taken at each meal instead of coffee 
or tea would "open wide the portals of the mind and let 
the light of reason in." In speaking of wine, the unfer- 
mented grape juice is meant; that which has been impreg- 
nated with ferment is not a food, though, in some cases, it 
may be used as a medicine. From the infinite variety of 
grapes, choice may be made to suit any taste. Avoid the 
variety known as the "Catawba"; they are poisonous to 



many persons. 



PEARS, 



In most cases, have a woody fiber which is indigestible. 
Those varieties which are juicy and tender, and which are 
not grainy, may be eaten occasionally to advantage. Th'e 
chief values are in the juices, which contain organized min- 
eral salts, such as iron and sodium, also phosphorus, etc. 

PLUMS 

Contain an acid which is injurious to the digestive organs 
of many persons, and should not be eaten when deleterious 
effects are noticed. Prunes are a very nutritious fruit and 
should be eaten whenever desired. They afford the highest 
nerve and brain food, supply heat and waste, but are not 
muscle feeding. In all instances when dried prunes are 
used, pour off the first water after cooking ten minutes ; 
add fresh boiling water to cover and boil six to eight hours. 
This makes them tender and very delicious. In all cases the 
first water should be removed, as it carries away the sulphur 
and alkali used during the process of drying and preparing 
for the market. 

POMEGRANATES, 

Though Indigenous to the Orient, are successfully grown 
in the warmer portions of the United States. They are very 
delicious, though they contain no known medicinal prop- 
erties. 

63 



JELLIES. 



As an article of food, jellies may be eaten occasionally. 
In many cases they cause a disturbed condition of the 
stomach, and persons with obese or diabetic tendencies 
should carefully avoid their use; also candies, syrups and 
sugar. 

Jellies may be used to advantage in making refreshing 
wines by dissolving in sufficient cold water to dilute to taste. 
Serve in glasses after a meal. 

The secret in making good jellies lies in the selection of 
the fruit and the attention and care given to it when boiling, 
considering the scrupulous cleanliness of the vessels used 
above all other things. 

Select the fruit desired, boil in porcelain or graniteware 
kettle, adding a little water if necessary, until soft ; strain 
and mash tlirough a suitable cloth, flannel preferred, and 
allow one pound of granulated sugar to each pint of juice. 
Boil again for five minutes, then add the sugar and boil 
until it jellies, or draws into threads as you spoon it. 

All jellies should be preserved in glassware, never metal, 
and should be kept in a cool, dark place, free from damp- 
ness. Light is very destructive to their keeping qualities. 

The use of jellies by picnic and camping-out parties for 
making appetizing drinks, must be tried to be appreciated. 
On these occasions a tempting lunch will be given addi- 
tional relish by an accompanying fruit juice of coveted 
flavor. 

Plum jelly should not be used, as the fruit acid too often 
causes acidulation of the stomach, with following pain and 
distress. 



63 



MEAT. 



That meat is not food for man needs not to be forcefully 
presented to the cultured and intellectual mind. This fact 
is as readily recognized by those having refined sensibilities, 
as the simple law that purity cannot emanate from degrada- 
tion. Flesh eating is a remnant of man's bygone barbarism 
which should be long forgotten. At the dawn of the twen- 
tieth century the orient light of wisdom more forcefully 
heralds forth the admonition that man must cease to defile 
God's temple. The so-called religionists, who "pray in high 
places" and strive so earnestly to show their fellow-men the 
righteous road which leads to peace and everlasting life, 
forget that they should first seek purity in themselves before 
they guide the erring ones along the narrow way. Purity 
of mind can only follow purity of body, and lofty sentiments 
and ideas cannot emanate from pork chops, sausages or 
chicken fricassee. 

The eating of meat, in many instances, has been the cause 
of great distress in social and family circles ; and it has 
been known to change affairs of state and plunge whole 
nations into ruin. 

It is well known to students of history that the dinner 
eaten by Napoleon the Great just before the battle of Leipsic 
proved so indigestible that the monarch's brain became con- 
fused, and, as a result, the battle was lost. 

The eel stews of Mohammed II kept the whole empire 
in a state of nervous excitement, and one of the meat pies 
which King Philip failed to digest caused the revolt of the 
Netherlands. 

The immutable law of evolution has designed that life 
must pass from the mineral kingdom to that of the vegeta- 
ble, and from the vegetable kingdom to that of the animal. 
Man's transgression of this law by the eating of flesh has 
brought the human race to a state of degeneracy which time 
and righteous living alone can change. "Thou shalt not 

64 



kill" is a divine commandment, given to man at the dawn 
of his creation to guide him in a life of righteousness and 
purity. Moses embodied this same commandment in the 
law which he formulated to govern the children of Israel. 
The penalty for its disobedience has always been the same — 
death. "Thou shalt not kill" is not confined to man alone, 
but governs the entire animal kingdom. The killing of an 
ox is a transgression of the law the same as the killing of a 
man ; the penalty remains the same. Kill not at all, and eat 
not that which has been killed. 

The eating of flesh will not build up cellular tissue in 
man ; this can only be done by a vegetable diet. Flesh foods 
load the blood with impurities and cause rapid disintegra- 
tion, making of man a walking graveyard and a human 
garbage barrel. If man did not eat potatoes, white yeast 
bread, and meat, nor use narcotic beverages, such as spirit- 
uous liquors, tea, and coffee, 90 per cent of the evils existing 
today would be removed. 



66 



NUTS. 



The proper food for man is an intelligent combination 
of fruits, grains, nuts and vegetables. An infinite variety 
may be secured, suited to all conditions and occasions. 

Nuts, because of their oily nature, should be used in com- 
bination with fruit, the acids of the latter aiding greatly in 
digestion. They may be used to great advantage with vege- 
tables and grains. 

Pop corn eaten with black walnuts or hickory nuts forms 
new flavors which are delicious and appetizing. 

Nut preparations are very wholesome, but should be used 
in small quantities, as they are a condensed food. 

Every family should have a mill with which to grind 
cereals, nuts, vegetables, etc., and many delicacies may be 
easily and cheaply made at home. Those who are beginning 
to see that meat-eating is not conducive to healthful condi- 
tions of mind and body, will find nut preparations a valuable 
aid in making a radical change to vegetarianism. The fol- 
lowing recipes will aid in suggesting various other nut 
dishes. 

HOW TO MAKE PEANUT BUTTER. 

Take eight pounds of roasted peanuts, put them through 
the mill, opened wide, to break up the shells and rub off the 
red skins, it will separate the kernels into halves ; then with 
a hand bellows or wind mill blow away the shells. Add to 
the kernels all the salt that will adhere to them, and then 
pass them through the mill, grinding to a fine, smooth, soft, 
oily, tough, delicious yellow butter that will spread on 
crackers, bread, etc. You have now five pounds of nut 
butter that contains more nutriment than ten pounds of cow 
butter which would cost you two dollars and fifty cents. 
Roasted peanuts turn to butter, raw ones make meal when 
ground through our mill. 

09 



PINON OR PINE NUT BUTTER. 

Roast and grind pine nuts and prepare same as other 
nut butters. Very fine for flavoring soups, etc. 

FILBERTS. 

Blanch same as almonds. Place in moderate oven for a 
few minutes until dry and crisp. Grind to fine meal on 
mill. Used same as others. 

BRAZIL NUT BUTTER. 

After shelling, blanch and roast for a few minutes in 
moderate oven. Grind to very fine meal. Used in small 
quantities, gives a delicious flavor to cereal preparations. 
Better when freshly prepared. 

WALNUT BUTTER. 

Use the paper-shell English walnut. After shelling, 
blanch same as almonds. Put in oven until slightly browned, 
then grind to fine meal on mill. Pack in air-tight glass 
jars and set in cool place. May be used with any fruit or 
grain dish. 

HICKORY NUTS. 

After being shelled, set the kernels into moderate oven 
for a few minutes, then grind on mill. Put in air-tight glass 
jars and set away in cool place. A little nut oil may be 
added on top, if desired. Very fine for flavoring soups, 
symposia and other dishes. 

CHESTNUTS. 

The large Italian or Apennine chestnuts are be«t Boil 
them, when fresh, for twenty minutes, then bake in hot 
oven for ten minutes, or until mealy ; puncture shells with 
knife or fork to prevent bursting. Peel and grind into 
flour. Put into jars and set in dry place ; will keep indefi- 
nitely. May be used in soups, symposia, bread, grains. 

e? 



ALMOND BUTTEE. 

Use the paper-shell sweet almonds. After shelling, blanch 
and set them in oven until thoroughly dry and hard, then 
grind to fine meal on a mill. If desired, they may be 
roasted, after blanching, in a moderate oven until a golden 
brown before grinding. Pack in air-tight glass jars. Very 
delicious for spreading on bread and for flavoring cereal 
dishes. 

BUTTERNUT AND BLACK WALNUT BUTTERS. 

All preparations from these nuts are better in a fresh 
state, as they do not keep long without becoming rancid. 
Grind after shelling; used for flavoring same as other nut 
butters. May be slightly browned in oven before grinding, 
if desired. When eating black walnuts and butternuts, they 
should be accompanied by a generous quantity of popcorn. 
This prevents the rich oils from lying too heavily on the 
stomach and possibly causing distress. 

PEANUTTA. 

Put a quantity of shelled peanuts into a slow oven for 
twenty minutes. Do not allow them to get brown. Take 
them out ; when cold the brown skins may be easily rubbed 
oflf. Grind to a fine, smooth paste on a mill. Put three 
cupfuls of these ground peanuts into a sauce pan ; add five 
cupfuls water and boil over slow fire, stirring frequently, 
for twenty minutes. Pour into porcelain dish and set in cool 
place. Very fine in soups, in cereals, symposia, or as butter 
to spread on bread. 

NUT CREAMS. 

See article on Creams in Raw Food Department 



OILS. 

Animal oils should not be used because they pollute the 
blood and are indigestible. For this reason all foods mixed 
with them partake of the same conditions. The feeding of 
children with potatoes fried in animal oils is little short of 
crime, because the results are equal to those of poison. The 
same is true of meat, white yeast bread and narcotic bever- 
ages. Another objection to the use of animal oil for frying is 
its liability to become overheated. Burnt fat contains acro- 
lein, an irritating and highly-poisonous liquid developed dur- 
ing burning. Vegetable oils will withstand a much higher 
temperature before burning. Their use in this book is always 
intended, and there are many varieties on the market which 
are prepared especially for culinary purposes. They are 
much cheaper in the end than animal oils and far more 
wholesome. 

* OLIVE OIL. 

For table use, salads and for use by invalids, olive oil 
only is recommended. The California oil is as cheap in price 
as the imported finer grades, and holds its own in competi- 
tion. 

SALAD OIL. 

Most oil sold as salad oil is simply refined cottonseed oil, 
and for cooking purposes is equal to olive oil. 

COTTONSEED OIL. 

Because of its cheapness and wholesomeness this oil is 
quite in demand and most satisfactory for soups and baking 
purposes. For making pies it should first be heated and 

69 



beaten with an egg-beater or fork until foaming. Pastry 
will be light and very delicious, both in taste and flavor. 

SUNFLOWER SEED OIL. 

In European countries, also in some parts of the Orient, 
sunflower seed oil is used for cooking and baking, with sat- 
isfactory results. The flavor is unsurpassed and the nutri- 
tious value greater than olive oil. In countries where made 
it is as cheap as cottonseed oil, and is thus commonly used. 
For invalids suffering from pulmonary troubles, and throat 
and nasal affections, sunflower oil as daily food proves to be 
an indispensable agent. 

IMPROVED SOUP OIL. 

To give soups a decided flavor and the taste of soup 
stock, save all the oil which you have used for frying pur- 
poses, putting it in a separate can. That oil having been 
boiled and taken on flavors from the things fried or cooked 
in it will gradually change its flavor and prove excellent in 
the preparation of soups and salads. In liver complaints 
use oil sparingly and only when acid or sub-acid fruits are 
being used with the meal. 

OILS IN GENERAL. 

The question of purity of oil is not so much a scientific as 
a commercial one, although for medicinal purposes the oil 
must be just as prescribed. Thus in consumption and rheu- 
matism the patient must use none but the purest olive oil, 
while in troubles of liver and stomach, olive and cottonseed 
oil in equal proportion will prove more satisfactory. In 
some cases the olive oil should be used raw, while in others 
the oil should be boiled in water, and the water allowed to 
evaporate before the oil will prove of medicinal value. A 
little experimenting will soon teach the person as to the 
method to be employed in individual cases. 

When breaking away from meat diet a larger quantity 
of oil will at first be required. Be sure to mix oil with well 
prepared dishes only. After a time the system will require 
but little oil, as we shall crave nuts in their season. 

70 



PICKLES AND CATSUP. 

Pickles should be eaten very sparingly, and, if possible, 
not at all when prepared with vinegar, as this condiment is 
deleterious to a healthful condition of the stomach. Cucum- 
ber pickles are quite harmful because they are difficult to 
digest when preserved in vinegar. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Scald, peel and core a peck of sound, ripe tomatoes. Mash 
as if for stewing. Season with one tablespoonful ground 
cinnamon, one-half teaspoon ful cayenne pepper, one table- 
spoonful each of cloves, allspice and mace, and three large 
onions cut very fine ; salt to taste. Put all in porcelain-lined 
kettle to boil ; when tomatoes are thoroughly cooked, rub 
them through a sieve to get out the seeds, spice, etc. After 
straining return to kettle and boil until thick like cream. 
Set aside and when cold put into clean bottles, filling each to 
within one-half inch of the cork, then pouring in on top of 
each a teaspoonful of salad oil. The bottles should be kept 
in a cool, dry place, resting on their sides. 

PICCALILLI. 

Cut one peck of green tomatoes and six onions in thin 
slices, pack in layers in earthenware jar alternately with 
one teacupful of salt. Let stand over night ; in the morning 
pour oflF liquid that has formed, add four green peppers and 
chop all fine. Put the whole in a porcelain-lined kettle with 
one pint of pure cider vinegar (or lemon juice) and a table- 
spoonful each of cloves, cinnamon, and white mustard seed. 
Cook until soft and sweeten to taste. Pack in earthenware 
or glass jars and set away in cool, dry place 

n 



PIES. 



There can be no objection to the eating of pies if they are 
well baked and their crusts do not contain animal oils. 
Doughy pies of ghostly hue, flavored with the extract of 
swine adipose tissue, can scarcely be expected to answer as 
an after-dinner relish for every hungry mortal. 

In the making of pie crust, use only vegetable oils, such 
as olive, cottonseed or cocoanut. To insure a fine, palatable 
crust, beat the oil before using until it will froth. Such 
oil will make a much finer crust and work more readily 
with flour than animal fats or butter, and it will require less 
oil. 

Clarified butter may be used, but it is considered objec- 
tionable on account of its indigestibility. Persons subject 
to liver and stomach disorders should not use it, nor any 
other animal oil, for that matter. Admixtures of animal 
fats and starch, such as pies, pastry, etc., should not be given 
to children. 

Always bake pies until both upper and lower crusts are 
a golden brown, otherwise they are indigestible and lie 
heavily on the stomach. The human stomach has developed 
beyond the digesting of raw starch, and attention to this fact 
will alleviate much suflfering. 

Students and others in the school-room will sooner or 
later pay the penalty for the continued eating of noonday 
lunches composed of white bread and half-baked pie impreg- 
nated with animal fats. 

PIE CRUST. 

Sift together one quart of flour with one teaspoonful salt ; 
add two-thirds cupful well-beaten cocoanut, olive or cotton- 
seed oil, working it in thoroughly; then pour in gradually 
one cupful cold water. Knead into firm dough with least 

73 



possible handling; roll out on floured board to thin sheet 
and lay on graniteware pie plates. Before putting in the 
pie mixture, wet the crust dough when in the plates with 
beaten white of an egg to prevent juices soaking through 
and making crust soggy. Bake pies in moderate oven, being 
careful to brown the lower as well as upper crust. Enough 
for four pies. 

APPLE PIE. 

To make an apple pie that is a charm, it is necessary to use 
finely-flavored and tart apples. Pare and core them, put 
them with a little water into a graniteware saucepan over the 
fire and boil until soft. Add sugar to taste and beat to 
smooth cream. Put generous quantity into each crust-lined 
plate, add a dash of ground cinnamon, put on upper crust 
and bake in brisk oven to golden brown. 

CRACKER PIE. 

Beat together the yolk of one egg, one tablespoonful but- 
ter and two tablespoonfuls sugar. Add the dust of four 
finely rolled soda crackers and one cupful of milk. Boil it 
all until thick. Use white of egg for frothing. Bake in 
open crust. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Make custard of three well-beaten eggs, two tablespoon- 
fuls white sugar and one pint sweet milk, using flavor to 
taste. Put in crust-lined plates and bake in slow oven. 
When done, take out and spread over with the beaten whites 
of eggs and sugar, return to oven and bake until slightly 
browned. Set aside to cool, then serve. 

DATE PIE. 

Soak one pound of dates over night, stew until they can 
be mashed through a sieve. Mix with one quart of milk, 
three eggs, and a little salt. Bake with under crust only in 
moderate oven. This amount of filling will make three pies, 

T8 



Figs may be used in place of dates for variety, but they will 
need to be finely chopped. 

FRUIT PEE. 

Select fruit desired, such as grapes, peaches, plums, pears, 
etc., stew them well done; put between two crusts and bake 
to golden brown. Flavor with ground cinnamon or use ex- 
tract to suit taste. 

LEMON PIE. 

Soak one-half cupful cracker-dust for one hour in one 
cupful milk. Cream together one-half cupful powdered 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls cocoanut butter or olive oil, whip 
in the beaten white of one and yolks of three eggs, reserv- 
ing the remaining whites for a meringue. Add the juice 
and grated rind of two lemons, then the soaked cracker-dust. 
Pour all in crust-lined plate and bake in moderate oven to 
golden brown. Make a meringue of the whites beaten with 
two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. When pie is done, 
spread over the meringue, return to oven long enough to 
harden. Serve cold. 

STRAWBERRY PIE. 

Put crust in plate, bake in oven until nicely browned. 
Take out and fill with fresh, ripe strawberries ; sprinkle with 
finely-powdered sugar, then spread over the entire pie the 
well-beaten whites of eggs and sugar. Put again in oven 
and bake until slightly browned. Use no top crust. 

MINCE PIE. 

Make a mock mince meat as follows: Take one pound 
of washed and dried currants, one pound seeded raisins, 
one pound finely-cut citron, one pound sugar, one-half tea- 
spoonful salt, the juice and a little grated rind of two 
oranges, the juice and grated rind of one lemon, one quart 
grape juice, one teaspoonful ground cinnamon, one tea- 
spoonful mace, one pint finely-chopped apples and one pint 
ground roasted peanuts ; mix well. This eimount is suf- 

74 



ficient for six good-sized pies. Put between two crusts and 
bake until nicely browned. 

ORANGE PIE. 

Beat together the yolks of four eggs and eight table- 
spoonfuls sugar; add the juice and grated rind of two 
oranges and two-thirds cupful milk. Bake for thirty 
minutes in an under crust. For meringue, beat whites of 
the four eggs with four tablespoonfuls powdered sugar to 
firm paste, spread over top of pie when done, then return 
to oven and bake until delicately browned. Serve cold. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Stew the pumpkin until soft, then press through sieve. 
To one quart of pumpkin allow two quarts of milk and six 
eggs. Beat the eggs well and stir into the milk, adding 
gradually the sifted pumpkin. Add one teaspoonful cocoa- 
nut butter or oHve oil, a little salt, one teaspoonful ground 
cinnamon, and sweeten to taste. Pour into crust-lined plates 
and bake in quick oven. When done, take out and spread 
over each pie a generous amount of well-beaten thick, sweet 
cream and powdered sugar ; return to oven until a delicate 
brown film has formed, then take out and set away to 
cool. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Pour boiling water over two teacup fuls chopped rhubarb, 
drain off the water after five minutes ; add one teacupful 
sugar, yolk of one egg, one teaspoonful cocoanut butter or 
olive oil, one tablespoonful flour, and three tablespoonfuls 
water. Put between two crusts and bake to light brown in a 
moderate oven. 

CHEESE PIE. 

Line a pie plate with plain pastry and fill with a custard 
made as follows: Rub two cakes of Neufchatel cheese 
through a sieve, add two well-beaten eggs, a tablespoonful 

76 



of flour and a little grated nutmeg; stir, fill the crust and 
bake. 

SORGHUM PIE. 

To four lightly-beaten eggs add one cupful sorghum 
molasses, one-half cupful sugar, two teaspoon fuls corn- 
starch, a pinch of nutmeg. Set into a pan of hot water to 
thicken. 

ORANGEADE PIE. 

Put one-quarter pound butter on the stove to melt slowly 
so the salt will settle to the bottom. Then pour off the 
butter and add one-half pound white sugar. Cream them 
together. Add the juice and finely-grated rind of three 
oranges. Add six well-beaten eggs and two square crackers 
finely pulverized to give consistency. This will make filling 
for two pies. 

BUTTERMILK FILLING. 

One cupful buttermilk, one cupful sugar, the yolks of 
three well-beaten eggs, three tablespoonfuls starch. Flavor 
with lemon, 

PLAIN CUSTARD. 

One cupful water to one cupful sugar, one tablespoonful 
flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful oil. Beat it all thoroughly 
and flavor. Bake in a quick oven. 

JELLY PIE. 

Beat the yolks of four eggs and add one cupful sugar 
creamed with one-half cupful butter. Mix thoroughly and 
add the frothed whites of eggs. Now add one cupful tart 
jelly and two teaspoonfuls orange juice. Bake about three- 
quarters of an hour in open crust. 



7« 



PUDDINGS AND CUSTARDS. 

It is, indeed, a trite but old saying that "the proof of the 
pudding is in the eating." Too often the testimony is 
deariy bought, especially when the burden of proof rests 
on the digestive organs like unto a nightmare. Pure and 
fresh ingredients other than animal, placed in the hands of 
an intelligent cook, may be resolved into "a midsummer- 
night's dream," with all the paraphernalia to match. The 
omission of animal fats and corn or other starch, sago, 
tapioca and arrowroot, from puddings will be a decided 
move toward robbing them of their greater evils. 

APPLE COBBLER. 

Line a deep graniteware dish with pie-crust dough; fill 

dish with sliced tart apples, and sufficient sugar to sweeten 
to taste. Sprinkle over the top a small quantity of ground 
cinnamon and cloves. Use sufficient flour, into which has 
been sifted one-half teaspoonful baking powder, to make 
about the consistency of soft ginger-bread. Have bag in 
which it is to be boiled scrupulously clean and before using 
dip it in hot water and sprinkle with flour. Boil for three 
or four hours, suspending pudding in pot. Water should 
be boiling when pudding is put in, and must be continued 
for the entire cooking period. Serve with sauce to taste. 

Sliced peaches or other fruits may be substituted for 
apples to give variety. 

CHESTNUT PUDDINQ. 

Boil chestnut meal with fruit sauce for ten minutes, then 
set away to cool. Serve garnished with sliced oranges in 
sauce dishes. 

77 



OBANGE OUSTABD. 

Beat well together yolks of six eggs and one-half cupful 
powdered sugar. Add two cupfuls orange juice and grated 
rind of one orange. Put into individual dishes and cook in 
steamer until solidified, then set away to cool. 

STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING. 

One cupful seedless raisins, one-half cupful finely-chopped 
citron peel, one-half cupful finely-chopped or ground al- 
monds, three well-beaten eggs, one tablespoonful cocoanut 
butter or olive oil, four cupfuls cracker-dust; mix all to- 
gether and add sufficient milk to make stiff paste. Put in 
pan and cook in steamer for two hours. Serve while hot 
with suitable sauce. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

One cupful milk, one cupful maple molasses, one pint well- 
chopped seeded raisins, one tablespoonful cocoanut butter, 
one teaspoonful each of finely-ground pine nuts, cinnamon 
and shredded lemon peel. Put on upper crust, cutting in 
slits to allow steam to escape, and set in moderate oven and 
bake to a golden brown. Serve with cream sauce to suit 

APRICOT PUDDING. 

To two cupfuls flour add one level teaspoonful salt, finely 
powdered, three tablespoon fuls sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
melted butter, four eggs beaten separately, and one cup of 
sweet milk. Beat the batter for several minutes until it 
aerates. Into well-oiled cups put a layer of batter, then 
a layer of sliced apricots, covered with a layer of batter. 
Steam for twenty minutes and serve with the following 
sauce: 

aAUOE. 

One cup sugar in one-half cup water, boiled for five 
minutes. Add juice of cooked or canned preserves, one 

■78 



rounded teaspoonful butter ; let it all come to a boil and add 
one tablespoonful cornstarch dissolved in cold water, with 
a pinch of salt. Let it come to a boil again and add the 
juice of half a lemon or more to suit taste, and serve. 

PRUNE PUDDING, 

Soak one pound of prunes in hot water for twenty-five 
minutes, then boil them over a slow fire about three to four 
hours until their natural sweetness is restored, adding a 
stick of cinnamon. Wash them through a sieve as soon as 
stones are removed. Add the whites of six well-beaten 
eggs. Bake for fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. Pour 
over it the juice of two sweet oranges and serve with 
whipped cream, flavored with vanilla. Served in the rind 
of oranges adds to the appearance. 

SULTANA PLUM PUDDING. 

Take a cupful each of raisins, dried apples, peaches, and 
one-half dozen each of figs, dates, and three fresh bananas. 
Boil this in a separate vessel for thirty minutes and add to 
prunes which have been boiling for two hours, of which 
you take two cupfuls, adding a stick of cinnamon. The 
prunes have to be pitted before mixed in with the rest. 
In a third vessel you boil two tablespoonfuls of tapioca in 
a quart of water until clear. Now you mix it all together, 
adding three tablespoonfuls of finely-chopped or ground 
nuts to it, also a rind of lemon peel and citron. Allow the 
mixture to boil for one hour or more over a slow fire. 
Wet a mold and pour in if wanted cold; just turn it out 
as you would a jelly. Serve upon a layer of flaked rice or 
tapioca soaked in orange or pineapple juice. Just before 
serving pour over each individual dish a little grape brandy 
and light a match to it. Serve with whipped cream flavored 
with lemon. 

AMBER PUDDING. 

Take one and a half pounds of apples. Cut up into small 
pieces, peelings and cores included. Put them into a stew 
pan, with a piece of lemon rind and a little juice, two 

79 



ounces of butter, three ounces of sugar, and stew until soft 
and mushy. Strain first through colander and then a fine 
sieve. Stir in the yolks of three eggs. Line a pie dish 
with pie crust and pour the above consistency upon it. 
Place into moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Whip the 
whites into a stiflF froth, add some sugar and lemon flavor- 
ing. Pour over the top. Sprinkle with castor sugar, return 
to oven to brown and decorate with candied fruits. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

One-half pound sugar, one-half pound grated cocoanut, 
two tablespoonfuls cocoanut butter, one cupful cracker- 
dust, two eggs, one quart milk. Add milk to cracker-dust, 
then eggs, well beaten. Mix all together, flavor with vanilla 
and bake in graniteware dish. Serve with sauce to suit. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

To one quart milk add one cupful cracker-dust, three well- 
beaten eggs, one cupful sugar, one teaspoonful vanilla, two 
squares chocolate, melted. Mix well and put into granite- 
ware dish and bake till nicely browned. Serve with or 
without sauce. 

NEW ENGLAND BREAD PUDDING. 

Into a three-quart pudding dish break five fresh eggs, 
beat until light ; add one-fourth teaspoonful salt, two cup- 
fuls granulated sugar, two cupfuls well-browned bread 
crumbs, two quarts fresh milk, one tablespoonful cocoanut 
butter or olive oil, one-half teaspoonful cinnamon. Bake in 
moderate oven about forty-five minutes, or until no longer 
milky, testing frequently with a knife. Do not bake pud- 
ding too long, as too much baking will spoil it. When done, 
spread over top a thick layer of currant or other jelly and 
over that a meringue made by beating whites of two eggs 
with pulverized sugar ; replace in oven until delicately 
browned, then remove immediately. In all bread puddings, 
care should be taken to have crumbs well-browned, as the 
soft portion of bread becomes doughy when soaked in milk 
or other liquid and will have a raw taste. 

80 



QUEEN CUSTARD. 

Mix with one quart fresh milk the well-beaten yolks of 
four eggs, two tablespoonfuls almond meal, one-half cup- 
ful sugar, one cupful finely-ground cracker-dust, a little 
grated orange or lemon peel, pinch of salt. Put in granite- 
ware dish and set in steam cooker for one hour. Beat 
whites of the four eggs with powdered sugar; spread over 
top of pudding when done, then set in oven until meringue 
is crisp. Take out and set aside ; serve when cold. 

NUT PUDDING. 

To one quart milk add two cupfuls cracker-dust, three 
well-beaten eggs, one cupful sugar, one-half cupful orange 
juice, three tablespoonfuls almond or peanut meal, pinch of 
salt. Mix all well together, put in graniteware pan and 
bake in moderate oven until nicely browned ; or may be put 
in steam cooker for one hour. Serve with sauce to taste. 

DRIED APPLE CUSTARD. 

Cook one pint of dried apples until tender and easily 
mashed through sieve. Add one tablespoonful of clarified 
butter while fruit is warm. Add three well-beaten eggs, 
one pint of rich cream and the juice of one lemon and the 
grated rind of half a lemon. Line pie dish with pie crust. 
Pour the consistency over it and bake for twenty minutes. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Take one dozen oranges and four lemons. Cut into 
halves. Soak in four quarts of water for twenty-four hours, 
then boil until transparent. When done take the fruit and 
cut into very fine shreds with a sharp knife. Return to the 
liquid. To every pint of the fruit add one pound of sugar. 
Bring it all to a boil again. Then boil quickly for twenty 
minutes and then bottle. Remember that the fruit is simply 
to be covered with water so that you will have to use judg- 
ment as the quantity of water will depend upon the size of 
fruit and the amount of juice the fruit contains. Prepara- 
tions of this nature are to be used upon special occasions 
only and not as a food. 

81 



SALADS. 



Salads made without vinegar or strong spices are appetiz- 
ing and quite wholesome. They should be eaten only in 
moderate quantities, and with nutritious nut and grain foods 
form a valuable adjunct to a well-balanced meal. A little 
study of their nature and qualities will enhance their value. 
In making salads do not mix fruits with vegetables. Nuts 
may be used with either fruits or vegetables. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Select smooth and large tomatoes, scald them, skin quick- 
ly and drop into cold water to chill. Slice them and put in 
layers alternately with the following: Chop finely a small 
quantity of onion, parsley, and cress, and mix with mayon- 
naise dressing. Serve on platter and garnish with lettuce 
leaves or cress. 

NUT-CELERY SALAD. 

Put one cupful shelled walnuts in saucepan, add two 
slices of onion and one-half teaspoonful salt ; cover with 
boiling water and boil thirty minutes, then throw into cold 
water to blanch; dry on towel and rub off the thin skins. 
Mix nuts with two cupfuls sliced celery and add French 
dressing to suit the taste. 

VEGETABLE SALAD. 

Cut into one-fourth-inch cubes one cold cooked beet, one 
cold cooked carrot, one cold cooked potato, and a few cold 
green string beans ; mix with mayonnaise dressing, and 
garnish with crisped leaves of one head lettuce. 

82 



PLAIN POTATO SALAD. 

Cut six cold boiled potatoes into small cubes, add one 
tablespoonful minced parsley, two stalks celery minced fine, 
and sufficient French or mayonnaise dressing to suit. Put in 
large platter and garnish with two hard-boiled eggs cut into 
thin slices and the crisped leaves of one head lettuce. 

PLAIN EGG SALAD. 

Boil six eggs fifteen minutes. When eggs are done re- 
move the shells and cut in slices lengthwise. Arrange them 
on a platter so that one slice overlaps the other. While the 
eggs are still hot pour over Simplicity dressing and stand 
away in a cold place for one or two hours. Garnish with 
watercress or small leaves of head lettuce. 

EGG SALAD. 

Remove the shells from five or six hard-boiled eggs ; cut 
lengthwise. Take out the yolks, being careful not to break 
the whites ; mash the yolks to a paste, moistened with 
mayonnaise dressing ; then return to the whites, filling them 
to their utmost. Have ready a platter filled with little nests 
made of lettuce leaves, and place one of these halves in each 
nest. 

BEET SALAD. 

Slice and cut into dice enough cold beets to make a pint ; 
heap them in the center of a platter and surround with 
leaves of head lettuce. Make a Sauce Tartare as follows : 
Chop four olives (pitted), one tablespoonful capers, one 
gherkin, very fine, and mix with one cup of mayonnaise 
dressing. Pour this over the beets and garnish with slices 
of hard-boiled eggs. 

BCACEDONIAN SALAD. 

One boiled beet, one small onion, one root of celery, one 
'boiled carrot, one-half cup boiled asparagus tops, two table- 
'spoonfuls of cooked green peas, one dozen boiled string 

88 



beans, one cup of mayonnaise dressing. Cut the beet, car- 
rot, beans and celery into small pieces ; chop the onion very 
fine-; mix all the vegetables carefully together, then add the 
mayonnaise and serve immediately. If the vegetables are 
properly prepared, this makes a delicious salad. 

CAULIFLOWER SALAD. 

Boil a head of cauliflower ; throw into cold water until 
wanted, then tear apart, dry on a soft towel, put in salad 
bowl, pour over a cupful of mayonnaise dressing; garnish 
with lettuce leaves and slices of hard-boiled eggs. Serve 
immediately. 

BEET SALAD. 

Grate or grind selected raw red beets to make two cup- 
fuls. Take a hard-boiled egg and mash fine the yolk and 
cut small the white, mixing it with the beets. Salt to taste 
and use as much lemon juice as desired. Serve upon lettuce 
leaves with a sprig of parsley. 

WALDORF SALAD. 

Take good-sized apples and pare them carefully ; scoop 
out a good deal of the inside to make a cup. Then take 
what is scooped out of the apples, chop fine and mix with 
chopped nuts and rich mayonnaise dressing ; refill the apples 
and put them on a platter of lettuce leaves. 

ROYAL POTATO SALAD. 

Select potatoes of small size. Scrub them well in cold 
water. Put them in earthenware or graniteware pot. Cover 
wdth enough cold water to keep potatoes in water. Drop 
into the pot a small bunch of dried or green dill or caraway 
seed tied in a cheesecloth sack. Let the potatoes boil quickly. 
Keep pot well covered, gradually turning down fire as the 
water evaporates. As soon as potatoes are done pour off 
the water and return pot to stove, but uncovered, until all 
moisture steams away, taking care not to put over hot fire 
as potatoes must not be scorched. Let potatoes get cold.. 

84 



Now peel potatoes and cut into squares. To every four 
potatoes use one onion the size of one of the potatoes. 
Cut onions fine. Mix it all well. Use some green parsley, 
cut fine. Sprinkle with a little celery seed. Salt to taste. 
Cut fine a dill pickle to every fifth potato. Mix again. 
Now heat oil in one and vinegar in another vessel, using 
one tablespoonful of oil to every three potatoes and one 
• teaspoonful of boiled vinegar to every four potatoes. Pour 
the hot vinegar on salad first and then the oil. Flavor with 
lemon juice or serve with sliced lemon and grated raw beets. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Even quantities of sliced apples, sliced bananas, sliced 
pineapple and sliced oranges. The fruit of course is all 
peeled before slicing. Sprinkle with coarse-ground pine nuts 
and almonds. Serve with mayonnaise dressing garnished 
with candied cherries. Do not use canned fruits for fruit 
salads. 

NASTURTIUM SALAD. 

Slice two hard-boiled eggs over a dish of shredded lettuce 
and dot with nasturtium flowers. Serve with French dress- 
ing. 

NUT-FRUIT SALAD. 

Put one pound blanched English walnuts in bowl; peel 
and core four tart apples, then cut them in very small 
cubes. Mix with nuts, then add sufficient Nice dressing to 
suit taste. May be served in individual dishes, or on large 
platter. Garnish with sliced navel orange if desired. The 
flavor will be greatly improved by the addition of finely- 
chopped citron peel. 

SPINACH SALAD. 

Wash and pick over one peck spinach ; cook with one-half 
cupful water until tender. Drain and chop very fine ; then 
add the chopped whites of two hard-boiled eggs and suf- 
ficient French dressing to suit. Put on large platter and 
garnish with the crisped leaves of one head lettuce, also 
one hard-boiled egg cut into thin slices. 

86 



SANDWICHES. 

There is no end to the variety of sandwiches which are 
particularly suited for picnics, parties and traveling. A 
little attention and interest will soon develop an endless 
variety of compounds. 

FRUIT SANDWICH. 

Chop finely one-fourth pound each candied cherries, 
seeded raisins, and dates ; add one-fourth pound cocoanut, 
two tablespoonfuls grape juice, and juice of one-half orange ; 
mix well. Spread almond butter on slices of bread, follow 
with fruit, then lay together. 

CHEESE SANDWICH. 

Blend yolks of two hard-boiled eggs with one tablespoon- 
ful cocoanut butter, olive oil or peanutta; add three table- 
spoonfuls grated cream cheese and a pinch of salt. Spread 
on slices of bread, having first laid on lettuce, parsley, or 
watercress leaves. Neufchatel may be used in place of 
cream cheese if desired ; pinon butter instead of peanutta. 

FIG SANDWICH. 

Put into double boiler one-half pound well-washed figs, 
one tablespoonful sugar, one-half lemon, and one cupful 
water. Cook until tender ; strain figs and chop very fine, 
then add to juice. Take twelve slices bread ; dip quickly 
one side of each into cold water, place wet sides of two 
slices together and toast in moderate oven until outsides are 
a golden brown. Separate the slices and put between each 
one a thick layer of fig filling. Press together and lay away 
to get cold. 

88 



OLIVE SANDWICH. 

Toast slices of bread as for ginger sandwiches. Spread 
on thin layer of peanutta, then Neufchatel cheese, and 
sprinkle with minced olives ; olives stuffed with pimentoes 
may be used if desired. 

GINGER SANDWICH. 

Take eight slices of bread; dip quickly one side of each 
in cold water, lay wet sides together and toast to a golden 
brown in moderate oven. Separate slices and put between 
them a filling composed of four lettuce leaves and one-half 
ounce of candied ginger cut into small slices, then place 
together. 

SAVORY SANDWICH. 

Mash finely with a wooden spoon one-half pound peeled 
tomatoes, rub into them the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs ; 
add pinch of sugar, dash of cayenne pepper, and chopped 
whites of two hard-boiled eggs. Put one tablespoonful of 
olive oil or cocoanut butter into a heated stewpan, pour in 
the mixture and when hot add one teaspoonful flour which 
has been worked to a cream with a little cold water, boil 
until thickened, then set away to cool. Put between slices 
of brown bread which have been spread with nut butter. 

DIVERS SANDWICH. 

Apple sauce with layer of whipped cream, or asparagus, 
spread between slices of bread, make very nice sandwiches. 
Also, sliced tomatoes laid between slices of bread which 
have been spread with French mustard and cream cheese, 
garnished with sorrel leaves or cress. Salsify, eggplant, or 
green tomato fritters garnished with horse-radish and put 
between slices of bread make nice sandwiches. 

PEANUT SANDWICH. 

To one cupful peanut butter add one-half cupful salad 
dressing; mix thoroughly and spread between slices of 
bread. 

87 



SOUPS. 

The first course of all dinners should be soup. They have 
an appetizing and refreshing effect upon the stomach which 
is fittingly prepared for the work of digesting the more 
solid foods that are to follow. 

Soups should not be eaten while hot, as they soften the 
stomach and lay a foundation for neuralgic conditions of 
that organ. They should be allowed to cool to a moderate 
temperature. 

Neither beverages nor foods should be taken into the 
stomach while hot. This organ is more sensitive to heat 
and cold than the mouth, and protests against abuse will be 
entered for presentation at some future time. 

Vegetable oils, such as cottonseed, olive, or cocoanut, 
added to soups will give finer flavors than animal oils ; and 
finely chopped or ground nuts greatly surpass ox tails and 
shin bones for making soup stocks. 

Catsup is one of the best condiments for use in flavoring 
soups, but black pepper and an excess of salt should be 
strictly avoided. 

An endless variety of soups will suggest itself as we learn 
to use our own judgment in preparing soups which are 
an art in themselves. The reason most people do not care 
for soups is because they never tasted the fine oil soups 
which give stay and stamina. 

SOUP FOR INVALIDS. 

Just after a siege of sickness where abstinence from 
food proved the only successful means of conquering the 
disease, giving the body an opportunity to recuperate, soups 
will prove most beneficial. It should be remembered that 
it is not well to eat bread or crackers with any kind of soup 
unless the soup is merely a plain combination of oil and 

88 



water, in which case the bread should be cut into small 
squares, toasted, and the boiling water and oil poured 
over it. 

Invalids should use the broths of soups only for several 
days and later on use the stock. 

THE BROTH 

Of the soups as given in routine may be used after the 
fast has been broken adhering to each broth for a day or 
two before resorting to another. 

BOUILLON SOUCL 

Take one teaspoonful of oil to each cupful of water. Let 
it come to a boil and thereafter simmer for ten minutes. 
Salt it to taste after boiling. Take a clove of garlic and 
rub the warmed bowl or plate with it. Rub the garlic well 
into center of dish. Now cut some green parsley into dish. 
Pour the boiling or hot broth into plate and sip it as warm 
as you can take it, masticating the parsley well. 

PARSLEY SOUP. 

Take two tablespoonfuls of oil to three pints of water 
and boil it with a bunch of parsley. Let it all boil slowly for 
thirty or more minutes. In the meantime take one table- 
spoonful of oil and one-half tablespoonful white flour 
and put them into frying pan over a hot fire, allow- 
ing the mixture to brown, stirring it to keep it from burning. 

As soon as browned to a golden color, add hot water 
gradually, stirring it continually until thinned to a liquid. 
Pour it into the broth, let it boil together for a minute and 
then serve. 

CONSOMME VEGETAL. 

Take two carrots of medium size, one turnip, one stalk 
leek, two onions, two spoonfuls rice and one spoonful barley, 
four tablespoonfuls oil and two quarts water. Boil for 
forty-five minutes and then add water to suit, allowing it 

89 



to simmer. Salt to taste. It will then be ready for use. 
Break an egg into your bowl, remove the germ and pour 
the hot broth of your soup over the egg. As soon as you see 
the white of the egg cooked, stir up the yolk and let it 
mix with the broth. If you care you can sprinkle a little 
green parsley over the broth. 

CREAM OF BEANS. 

Boil until soft and mushy one-half of a package of Amer- 
ican hulled beans. Mash through a sieve and add a quart 
of milk, one well beaten egg, two tablespoonfuls of olive 
oil, dash of salt and cayenne pepper. Return to the fire 
and let it all come to a boil. If a firm soup is desired retain 
one tablespoon ful of the olive oil and cream it with one 
heaping dessertspoonful of flour by browning it in a sauce- 
pan and smoothing it with part of the soup, then pouring 
it all together, allowing it all to boil up together. 

CRACKED BARLEY SOUP. 

Boil two tablespoonfuls cracked barley in two quarts water 
for three hours. Stir in slowly one pint milk, one well- 
beaten egg, and one teaspoonful salt. 

RICE SOUP. 

Boil one tablespoonful cleaned rice in one quart water 
for one hour; add the juice of two boiled tomatoes, one 
tablespoonful each of olive oil and peanutta, one teaspoon- 
ful salt. Boil a few minutes, then flavor with two table- 
spoonfuls tomato catsup. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Chop finely one onion, four green beans, one small ox- 
heart carrot, one-half green pepper, one stick celery, or 
pinch of celery seed, one tomato, sprig parsley, small 
parsnip, sprig cauliflower, one tablespoonful oil ; boil one 
hour in two quarts water. Add one teaspoonful salt and 
one cupful milk. 

90 



CELERY SOUP. 

Take five stalks celery, with leaves, cut fine and boil for 
ten minutes in one quart water ; pour oflF water and add 
two quarts fresh water, one clove garlic, one tablespoonful 
olive oil, one tablespoonful nut butter ; boil two hours, then 
add three cupfuls milk and one cupful milk thickened with 
a little flour ; boil again for a few minutes, then serve. 

RICE-MACARONI SOUP. 

Boil one tablespoonful rice, one onion, one cupful broken 
macaroni, and one tablespoonful oil in two quarts water 
for forty-five minutes. Add one teaspoon ful salt and two 
tablespoonfuls finely-chopped green parsley and allow to 
boil a few minutes longer. Add two tablespoonfuls cat- 
sup or pinon butter for flavoring, if desired. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Boil one quart finely-chopped asparagus in one quart 
water for ten minutes ; pour off water, put on two quarts 
fresh water and boil twenty minutes ; strain out asparagus, 
and mash through colander, then return again to water from 
which it was taken. Cream one tablespoonful flour with 
one tablespoonful oil, stir into one pint heated milk and 
boil a few minutes ; salt to taste and pour into asparagus. 
Let all come to a boil and pour over toasted bread cut into 
dice, or oyster crackers, and garnish with parsley. 

GRAIN-VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Put one tablespoonful each of rice, chopped green com, 
and cracked barley into soup pot ; pour on one quart water 
and boil one hour. Chop fine two sticks celery, one onion, 
turnip, carrot and sweet potato ; add to soup, together with 
one quart water. Boil for two hours over slow fire, then 
add one quart boiling water. Take one cupful flour, one- 
half teaspoonful baking powder ; mix well and rub with one 
tablespoonful nut butter, or oil and one well-beaten egg. 
Roll into small balls, drop into soup and boil for thirty 

91 



minutes. iVbout five minutes before taking off fire add two 
teaspoonfuls each of parsley, peanut-butter, peanutta and 
one teaspoonful each of thyme and salt. 

PEA SOUP. 

Put one quart green peas and one onion into a soup 
pot ; pour on sufficient water to cover and boil forty-five 
minutes. Mash through colander and add one pint water. 
Cook one tablespoonful flour in two tablespoonfuls oil until 
a very light brown. Add one cupful each of milk and 
cream and one teaspoonful salt. Pour all into soup, boil a 
few minutes and serve. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Boil four or five tomatoes for one hour in sufficient water 
to cover ; strain through colander, put juice again on the 
fire and add one-half cupful milk which has been thick- 
ened by the addition of a little flour. Boil until slightly 
thickened, adding one quart of milk slowly after boiling. 
Serve with dry toast. May be flavored with a little parsley, 
onion, or celery. 

BEAN SOUP. 

Soak over night one teacupful beans in sufficient water 
to cover. Pour off the water, then add one quart fresh 
water and boil for one-half hour. Pour off this water and 
again add two quarts boiling water and boil for six hours. 
Mash through colander, then add one-half pint well-cooked 
tomatoes, a sprig of parsley and one tablespoonful oil ; cook 
one-half hour longer. Add one pint milk and serve. 

BARLEYBON. 

Put one-half cupful pearl barley in two quarts water ; add 
two sticks celery and one tablespoonful olive oil ; boil three 
hours over slow fire. Then add one whole onion, one cup- 
ful strained tomato juice, and one tablespoonful nut butter. 
Continue boiling for forty-five minutes. Brown in a frying 

92 



pan one tablespoonful flour mixed with one tablespoonful 
oil ; add two cupfuls water and one teaspoonful salt. Pour 
this into soup and boil for a few minutes. Remove onion 
and celery before serving. 

SWEET POTATO SOUP. 

Boil six small or four medium-sized sweet potatoes; 
when done, peel and mash through a sieve. Dissolve two 
tablespoonfuls of finely-ground pine nuts in one quart of 
hot water ; add one small onion grated, one teaspoonful 
salt, one teaspoonful celery seed and boil for ten minutes, 
while the sweet potatoes are being peeled and prepared. 
Strain the soup and mix in the sweet potatoes ; now return 
to the fire and add two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, a dash of 
cayenne pepper, and let boil a few minutes. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 

Take a can of tomatoes and add a bruised bay leaf, a blade 
of mace, a sprig of parsley, and let them stew for fifteen 
minutes. Put a quart of milk on to boil in a double boiler, 
and when boiling add two tablespoonfuls of flour mixed 
with two tablespoonfuls olive oil, and stir constantly until 
it thickens. Now press the tomatoes through a sieve and if 
ready to use the soup, add a teaspoonful of sugar and one- 
fourth teaspoonful baking soda to the tomatoes, and then 
the boiling milk ; stir and serve immediately. It must not 
go on the fire after mixing the milk with the tomatoes, or 
it will separate. If you are not ready, let them stand on 
the fire separately and mix them when wanted. 

CREAM OF CHEESE SOUP. 

Put into a quart of milk, a slice of onion, a slice of carrot, 
a blade of mace and boil in double boiler. Rub two table- 
spoonfuls of flour into four tablespoonfuls of olive oil ; re- 
move the vegetables and mace from the milk after it be- 
gins to boil and add the flour and oil, and stir until it 
thickens. Now add three heaping tablespoonfuls of grated 
Parmesan cheese and stir three minutes ; add the beaten 
yolks of two eggs, salt and cayenne pepper to taste and 
serve at once. This soup cannot be heated over. 

93 



FULL DINNER DISHES. 

SYMPOSIA AND FULL DINNER DISHES. 

An effort has been made in this department to give suit- 
able dishes designed to take the place of meats. In many 
instances when the housewife has resolved to adopt a new 
regime, one which leads to a betterment of mental and 
physical conditions, and one which excludes all animal foods 
whatsoever from the daily menu, she is at a loss to know 
just what to select when supplying the family table. The 
task need no longer be difficult, for in the preparation of 
these dishes others of similar nature will suggest themselves, 
and the various items may be procured accordingly. To 
obtain the best results, there is only one special rule to be 
observed, — do not use fruits with vegetables. 

Vegetables should be combined with grains and nuts; 
fruits with grains and nuts ; but not vegetables with fruits. 

Onions and garlic may be combined with apples (sour 
apples) without detracting from the beneficial qualities of 
either. 

Do not use raw flour in making symposia ; brown it in a 
moderate oven, and stir occasionally to prevent burning. 

When using bread, it should always be cut in slices and 
toasted to a golden brown in a moderate oven. It is neces- 
sary to procure a mill, or small grinder, with which to grind 
the toasted bread, crackers, shredded-wheat biscuits, nuts, 
grains, etc., for use in these recipes. These mills are sold 
by our societies for $4, and are indispensable to all well- 
regulated kitchens. It is well when purchasing nuts to 
select those which have been shelled ; they are cheaper in the 
end. They have been put through special machines which 
take out the kernels in a comparatively unbroken condi- 
tion; besides there is a great saving of time. The nuts 
should be fresh, otherwise they will be rancid and unfit to 
cat. 



Use graniteware, porcelain, or aluminum dishes for bak- 
ing purposes. Tin is easily oxidized and often poisons the 
food. 

To facilitate a variation in symposia, we give the follow- 
ing formulas, the use of which will satisfy the most fastid- 
ious taste. Select for use only strictly fresh articles. 

Green fruits and vegetables which have become wilted 
after being picked, have lost their life-giving properties and 
are so much dead matter. They should be eaten as soon 
as possible after being picked, observing particularly that 
all are free from blemishes, and that there are no evidences 
of decay. As soon as disintegration sets in, the entire fruit 
or vegetable, ^s the case may be, has become permeated with 
effete matter that produces like conditions in everything 
with which it comes in contact. 

FORMULA NO. 1. 

(Combining Fruit, Nuts, and Cereals.) 
One cupful cereals ; choice may be made of cracker-dust, 
finely-ground toasted bread crumbs, or browned flour. Three 
cupfuls finely-chopped fruit; choice may be made of any 
fruit separate, or they may be mixed. One cupful nuts ; nut 
butters may be used, or finely-chopped or ground kernels 
of any nuts desired. Two well-beaten eggs. One cupful 
liquid ; milk, water, or fruit juices may be chosen. One 
teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful spices or extracts, to taste. 
Bake for forty-five minutes. 

FORMULA NO. 2. 

(Combining Vegetables, Nuts, and Cereals.) 
One cupful cereals. Three cupfuls finely-chopped and 
boiled vegetables ; selection should be judiciously made, 
avoiding as much as possible the use of cabbage and po- 
tatoes. (See list of vegetables, following this department, 
for those which are most desirable.) One cupful nuts. 
One tablespoonful savory herbs. Two well-beaten eggs. 
One (in some cases two) cupfuls liquid. One teaspoonful 
salt, A little spice, except black pepper, to suit taste; bay 
leaves, celery seeds, and green parsley will give a decided 
taste. Catsup will give additional flavor. Bake one hour. 

85 



CHESTNUT. 

One pound of boiled Italian chestnuts, one pound whole- 
wheat bread crumbs, toasted and ground fine ; one pint 
boiled celery stalks, one pound fresh or one-half can toma- 
toes, one cupful each of green parsley and celery leaves, 
chopped fine; two good-sized raw onions, chopped; just a 
little marjoram and thyme finely ground, enough to give 
it all a distant flavor ; finely chopped fresh red pepper, about 
one tablespoonful ; two tablespoonfuls olive oil, heaping tea- 
spoonful salt, two or more eggs. Stir and mix it well. If 
consistency should be stifif add lukewarm water or eggs. 
Make into a loaf and set in a medium heated oven for an 
hour or until done. Occasionally moisten the top with a 
spoonful or more of hot water. Serve with nut tomato 
sauce made from one pound or half a can of tomatoes, three 
bay leaves, one blade of mace, pinch cayenne pepper, one 
tablespoonful ground raw peanuts, one small onion and one 
cupful water. Boil it for fifteen minutes over a quick fire, 
adding hot water frequently as needed. Thicken with 
browned whole-wheat flour. 

TAHARANI. 

One tablespoonful each of blanched almonds, pine nuts, 
pecans and walnuts ; one cupful finely-ground dried bread 
or crumbs, one finely-chopped onion, a pinch of powdered 
sage, a pinch of finely-ground celery seeds, one tablespoon- 
ful of finely-chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, two 
eggs and one cupful of cream. Mix ingredients in routine 
as given and keep stirring and beating. Consistency to be 
medium, not stift. Put in oiled earthenware dish. Bake 
for three-quarters of an hour. Serve with cream pea sauce 
and fresh peppermint leaves. 

NATURALIA. 

One cupful malted barley, one cupful ground raw pea- 
nuts, two tablespoonfuls flour, one tablespoonful oil, one 
well-beaten egg, salt to taste ; enough water to make it a 
light consistency. Bake for three-quarters of an hour in 
well-oiled gem pans. Apples may be added to the con- 

06 



sistency, but no raisins. Eaten every other day will pro- 
mote natural action. 

PRUNATUNA. 

One cupful fresh shelled peanuts, boiled in a quart of 
water for fifteen minutes, one cupful raw prunes, one each 
of dates and figs, one cupful malted barley, two tablespoon- 
fuls oatmeal, a good pinch of cinnamon, one tablespooniul 
oil. Stir quickly. If thick, add a little water. Bake in 
well-oiled pan. Do not use any drink with this dish. Par- 
ticularly valuable for dyspeptics. 

URANA. 

Boil in separate vessels, over a quick fire, one cupful each 
of rice and barley in a quart of water containing two table- 
spoonfuls of olive oil. When well-done, and water boiled 
down about two-thirds, let it cool a little, adding two me- 
dium-sized onions, finely chopped, a dash of thyme and a 
pinch or two of salt. Add two eggs, one cupful bread 
crumbs and two tablespoon fuls flour. Make little loaves, 
rolled in crumbs. Set into well-oiled pan and bake for half 
an hour. 

SPAMUTTA. 

Grate four cupfuls raw carrots, two cupfuls parsnips, one 
cupful each of turnips and potatoes. Add one and a half 
cupfuls browned flour, one cupful coarsely-ground raw 
peanuts. Flavor with one cupful green parsley and celery 
leaves, finely chopped, one-half teaspoonful crushed celery 
seeds, one teaspoonful salt, two tablespoonfuls oil, the 
yolks and whites of two separately beaten eggs. Put in 
granite pan, well oiled. Bake for three-quarters of an hour. 
Serve with mint sauce or plain mint and green peas. 

DE NOIX. 

Take two tablespoonfuls peanuts, two tablespoonfuls wal- 
nuts, one tablespoonful Brazil nuts, one tablespoonful 
pecans; chop all fine and add one cupful finely-ground 

87 



toasted bread crumbs, one cupful sweet milk, one table- 
spoonful nut butter creamed in a little milk, two well- 
beaten eggs, a pinch of chopped sage and thyme. Mix 
thoroughly, put into oiled dish and bake twenty minutes in 
moderate oven. Serve garnished with green parsley. 

DE CAROTTE. 

Boil for one hour one cupful carrots, one-half cupful 
parsnips, and two cupfuls celery, all finely chopped. Take 
three tablespoon fuls browned flour and boil in one and 
one-half cupfuls hot water until thick. Mix with the 
boiled vegetables, then add one cupful finely-ground onions, 
two cupfuls flaked cereals, or cracker dust, two well-beaten 
eggs, one tablespoon ful salt. Mix thoroughly, then put into 
well-oiled dish and bake in moderate oven for twenty 
minutes. Serve with tomato sauce. 

DE POIS EN COSSE. 

Mash fine one cupful boiled green peas (if canned see 
that they have been boiled until soft), add one-half cupful 
strained stewed tomatoes, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls nut 
butter rubbed smooth in a little hot water, one cupful finely- 
ground crackers (shredded wheat or browned bread crumbs 
may be used), one-half cupful onion juice, one-half tea- 
spoonful each marjoram, thyme and salt ; mix well and put 
into oiled dish and bake twenty minutes. Serve with 
chopped parsley. 

DE VEGETAL, 

Take equal quantities each of sweet potatoes, squash, 
tomatoes and parsnips to make two cupfuls ; boil for forty- 
five minutes and mash all fine. Brown one cupful flour in 
moderate oven, stirring occasionally to prevent burning, 
then mix with one cupful water or milk. Add to the vege- 
tables, mix well and roll up in a lump. Make a dressing as 
follows. Chop one onion fine and cook slowly in pan with 
two tablespoonfuls oil, or cocoanut butter; add one tea- 
spoonful each of finely-chopped thyme and marjoram, two 

08 



tablespoonfuls lemon juice, one-half cupful toasted bread 
crumbs, one teaspoqnful salt, and one cupful water or milk. 
Spread out the "meat," inclose the dressing, roll up and 
oil all over; put into oiled dish and bake thirty minutes in 
moderate oven. Make a gravy with a little browned flour, 
water, and a teaspoonful nut butter. 

A LA SULTANA. 

Boil one cupful browned flour in two cupfuls water until 
thick and creamy, stirring constantly to prevent burning. 
Add one cupful each of finely-chopped apples and pears, 
two tablespoonfuls ground walnuts, one cupful cracker dust, 
three tablespoonfuls of oil, one-half teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon, two well-beaten eggs, one teaspoonful salt, and dash 
of cayenne pepper. Mix thoroughly, put into well-oiled 
dish and bake in slow oven for thirty minutes. 

A LA SIMPLE. 

Cut one-fourth of a loaf of rye bread into slices; toast 
in a moderate oven to a golden brown, after which soak in 
water until soft; press out the water, then add two cup- 
fuls ground raw peanuts, two cupfuls chopped onions, one 
cupful chopped celery, two tablespoonfuls parsley, one 
teaspoonful salt, two tablespoonfuls oil, dash of cayenne 
pepper. Mix thoroughly and put into a well-oiled granite- 
ware dish. Press down well, then take from the center 
sufficient to make an opening large enough to hold the fol- 
lowing filling: One-half cupful peanut butter, one-half 
cupful Neufchatel cheese, and one-half cupful milk. Fill 
opening, then lay on top the removed portion. Put in mod- 
erate oven and bake one-half hour. Serve with catsup. 

A LA FAMILLE. 

Put two tablespoonfuls browned flour into one and one- 
half cupfuls milk and boil until a smooth paste, stirring 
constantly. Add two cupfuls each peanutta, finely-chopped 
apples, and finely-ground toasted bread crumbs, three table- 
spoonfuls oil, two well-beaten eggs, two teaspoonfuls salt, 

9d 
l.ofC. 



and a dash of cayenne pepper. Mix thoroughly, and put 
into oiled dish and bake thirty minutes in moderate oven. 
Serve with sauce. 

PEAS BOAST. 

Take a pound of dried green split peas and boil until 
mushy. Place a medium-sized whole onion (peeled) in 
the pot with the peas and boil with them for flavoring. If 
water boils away before peas are done, add some more. 
Use no salt, as salt hardens the water and takes longer to 
cook the peas. When done remove the onion and mash 
peas through a sieve; now add salt to taste, two eggs 
beaten light; stir well and put into oiled pan (small deep 
bread tin is best) and bake fifteen to twenty minutes. When 
done turn out the loaf on a platter and pour over it tomato 
or mushroom sauce. Garnish with parsley or mint. 

MACARONI WITH CHEESE. 

One-half pound macaroni, one cupful of milk, three table- 
spoonfuls grated cheese, two eggs, two tablespoon fuls whole- 
wheat flour, two tablespoonfuls olive oil, salt and cayenne 
pepper to taste. First break the macaroni into bits of about 
one inch long and boil rapidly for twenty-five minutes in 
slightly salted water. When done, put in colander to drain. 
Put the milk on to boil and stir into it the flour mixed 
smooth with the olive oil and stir continually until it thick- 
ens ; then add a dash or two of cayenne pepper, the cheese 
and macaroni, and lastly the two beaten eggs. Cook one 
minute longer and turn into an oiled baking dish to brown 
in the oven. Serve in same dish. 

SPAGHETTI WITH TOMATOES. 

One-half pound spaghetti, one can tomatoes, two table- 
spoonfuls olive oil, two cloves of garlic, two tablespoonfuls 
of whole-wheat flour and salt to taste. Take spaghetti in 
long sticks and put ends into boiling salted water. As they 
soften, bend and coil in the water without breaking. Boil 
rapidly for twenty minutes. When done, put into &■ 

100 



colander to drain and set the colander in a pan of cold 
water for ten minutes. This bleaches the spaghetti and 
makes it white. Open can of tomatoes ; put on to boil with 
the garlic cut into small bits. Dissolve the flour in the oil 
and add to the tomatoes when boiling and stir until thick- 
ened. Now oil a covered earthenware baking dish, put 
spaghetti with tomatoes thoroughly mixed through it into 
the dish and bake in oven for fifteen minutes. This can 
be made in the morning and put away until evening, or 
twenty minutes before serving the dinner; then set it in 
oven to bake fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve with bananas 
fried in olive oil after first being dipped in egg and corn- 
meal, or thin slices of Oriental bread spread with nut butter 
and Swiss cheese laid over the nut butter. 

MACARONI-CHEESE CROQUETTES. 

The above recipe may be used for croquettes. Instead of 
turning into baking dish when done, turn into a square pan 
and set away to cool. When cold cut in slices ; dip first in 
egg, then in cracker dust, and fry in oil until brown. Serve 
with tomato sauce. 

SPAGHETTI WITH BROWNED SAUCE. 

See recipe for Browned Sauce and prepare. As soon as 
sauce is smooth add the spaghetti as prepared in the pre- 
ceding recipe and simmer until thoroughly hot. Serve on 
large platter and cover top with grated Parmesan cheese. 
Baked sweet potatoes go nicely with this dish. 

NOODLES AND CHEESE. 

Take one-quarter pound of Italian egg noodles and boil 
for about fifteen minutes from the time of dropping them 
into the boiling water. If you wish, you can make your 
own noodles by taking three tablespoonfuls of flour and two 
well-beaten eggs; work into dough. Roll out on a board, 
adding flour gradually until it all rolls into a stifif ball. 
Now cut up into four pieces. Take a rolling-pin and roll 
out into sheets. Allow to dry for an hour. Cut into strips 
about the width of an inch. Put layer upon layer and take 
a sharp knife cutting the layers into threads. Spread 
them out on paper and when ready for use drop into boil- 

101 



ing water little by little. It will require fifteen or more, 
according to the thickness of the noodles. When done, 
drain off the water through a colander and pour cold water 
over the noodles, which will separate them and give them 
consistency as well as color. Now take one cup of milk and 
put into a double boiler, add two cupfuls of grated rich 
American cheese, a dash of cayenne pepper and salt. As 
soon as cheese is melted add the yolks of two well beaten 
eggs. Put noodles into a well-oiled pan or baking dish; 
pour the mixture over them and bake for ten to fifteen 
minutes in a moderate oven. Serve in baking dish with 
green peas or asparagus and a little parsley. 

ROYAL MACAROin. 

Break up one-half pound of macaroni into three-inch 
lengths and cook in the usual way. When done oil a deep 
baking dish. Put in a layer of macaroni and sprinkle with 
Herkimer cheese, a layer of seeded tomatoes, a layer of 
macaroni and a layer of French mushrooms, on top of these 
a layer of macaroni and on top of it all a good layer of 
cheese. Over this spread tomato sauce, or if preferred 
cream sauce may be used instead. Put into moderate oven 
for at least half an hour. 

CHEESE RAMEKINS. 

Put four tablespoonfuls of cracker crumbs with one-half 
cup of milk on to boil. Stir until smooth ; then add four 
tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, two tablespoonfuls of olive 
oil and stir over the fire for one minute. Take off, add 
one-fourth teaspoon ful dry mustard, cayenne and salt to 
taste, and the yolks of two eggs. Beat the whites of three 
eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in carefully. Pour into 
an oiled baking dish and bake for ten minutes in a quick 
oven. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

Toast carefully square slices of salt-rising bread with 
crusts removed. While hot, butter them and arrange on a 
dish or platter and place in the oven to keep warm, while 
you make the rarebit. Put one-half cup of milk in doublie 

103 



boiler and when boiling hot add two cupfuls of rich Amer- 
ican grated cheese, stirring continually until the cheese is 
melted. Have ready one-half teaspoonful of dry mustard 
mixed with a little salt and two dashes of cayenne. Stir 
this into the milk and cheese and add two well-beaten eggs. 
Pour over the toasted bread and serve at once. If the rare- 
bit is tough and stringy, it is the fault of the cheese not 
being rich enough to melt. 

INDIAN CURRY. 

Slice four onions into a frying pan, add enough oil to fry 
them light brown ; now add two tablespoonfuls of butter 
or more, four tablespoonfuls of curry, a little more oil and 
cook with the onions for ten minutes. Mix with one can of 
kidney beans, one cupful of strained tomatoes, two table- 
spoonfuls of seeded raisins, one tablespoonful of chutney, 
a little water if needed, and allow to boil slowly for two 
hours. Creal some rice quickly for twenty minutes, so 
that kernel drops from kernel. Place by the spoonfuls 
around the platter and pour the curry in the center with 
three-cornered pieces of white bread toast to decorate, and 
serve hot. Mushrooms with mushroom sauce will make a 
nice meal. To be used cautiously and only in cold weather 
and where threatened with malignant troubles. Considered a 
festival dish. 

MIDNIGHT DISH. 

Salt-raised bread, shaped a la Vienna; sun-dry it; then 
cut into slices about quarter of an inch thick. Toast in oven 
on one side only. Have ready finely-ground poppy seeds 
mixed equally with sugar (brown preferable) ; to every cup 
of poppy and sugar add one-half teaspoonful of cinnamon. 
Have ready some nut cream containing pine nuts and fil- 
berts thinned with orange juice. Now put a layer of the 
toast into an extra deep platter. Pour over it some sweet 
cream, then a layer of poppy seeds, again a little sweet 
cream, now the thick nut cream and over this a layer 
of toast proceeding as at first, finishing with the nut cream. 
Serve upon individual dishes garnished with bits of candied 
fruits, pouring over it Dutch frosting. Serve Arabian 
coflFee later on. 

108 



VEGETABLES. 



All vegetables for food should be strictly fresh, which 
condition is easily indicated when they break or snap crisply. 
Home-grown vegetables, such as lettuce, spinach, peas, 
beans, etc., should be gathered in the morning when wet 
with dew. Vegetables are improved by being put in cold 
water before cooking. 

A very small quantity of cayenne pepper put into the 
water will somewhat neutralize the disagreeable odor arising 
from the boiling of onions, garlic, etc. 

Vegetables should be boiled in as little water as possible 
and be boiled quickly with a little oil to hasten the boiling 
point ; the vessel always kept covered at the start. 

Green vegetables should be cooked in water that is just 
beginning to boil, and which has been slightly salted, allow- 
ing one tablespoonful of salt to two quarts of water. Water 
which has boiled long is flat, and destroys the flavor and 
appearance of the vegetables. 

Pour off the first water after boiling ten minutes, then 
pour on a fresh supply which has been heated to the boiling 
point. This process removes the poisonous acids which 
might otherwise produce injury. 

The vegetables which ripen above the ground are prefer- 
able for food, as they contain a greater per cent of life- 
giving properties ; those which ripen beneath the surface 
should be used sparingly, as they contain many soil sub- 
stances which are injurious to the system. 

Vegetables are not in their entirety foodstuffs ; they are 
classed more properly as eliminators, and are a necessity in 
a well-balanced meal to furnish waste matter for the more 
solid grain and nut foods, besides furnishing valuable salts 
and acids. 

104 



ASPARAGUS. 

Put in boiling water with a little salt ; drain off the water 
after boiling five minutes ; pour on fresh boiling hot water 
and boil again for fifteen minutes. Add a little salt and 
olive oil. Serve with toast. The tops of asparagus should 
be a purple color, not green, to insure their being edible. 
This vegetable contains valuable salts and acids, and should 
be freely eaten. Discard woody or tough portion, as it is 
indigestible. 

BEETS. 

Use only the crisp red varieties. The large sugar beets 
are woody, and of little value except for the saccharine 
matter which they contain. Boil whole, without cutting; 
then slice and serve with lemon juice, but not vinegar. 

BAKED BEANS. 

Wash the desired quantity of beans and soak over night 
in sufficient water to cover ; in the morning drain them and 
boil in fresh water for fifteen minutes ; pour off the water, 
put beans into an earthen crock, add one tablespoonful 
molasses, one teaspoonful mustard, one tablespoonful olive 
oil, a little salt, and sufficient water to cover. Put a lid on 
the crock and cook slowly all day in the oven. Add water 
occasionally until one hour before taking from the oven. 
Serve with catsup. 

CABBAGE. 

Do not boil cabbage. Boiled cabbage and sauerkraut are 
practically indigestible and should not be eaten. Make a 
cold slaw by slicing the cabbage fine ; serve with or without 
lemon juice, not vinegar. Thick, sweet cream and lemon 
juice make a very palatable dressing. A small pinch of 
mustard may be added if desired. 

SAUERKRAUT. 

This concoction, particularly the liquid thereof, is of bene- 
fit in intestinal troubles when used in moderate quan- 

106 



titles only periodically. It must be used in its raw state; 
never boiled. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Tie up the cauliflower in a coarse tarlatan and boil one to 
two hours in water to which has been added a little salt. 
Drain and lay in deep dish. Heat one cupful milk; add a 
little flour which has been previously creamed in a little 
cold milk, the beaten white of one egg, and a little salt. Boil 
a few minutes, stirring briskly. Take from the fire, add a 
little lemon juice, then pour over the cauliflower and serve. 

CARROTS. 

Select the ox-heart variety. Boil one hour, or until 
tender, then add the desired quantity of milk into which has 
been creamed a little flour. Boil five or ten minutes, then 
serve. It is better to use carrots for soups, as they have 
no special food value. 

CELERY. 

This vegetable is particularly valuable as a blood puri- 
fier. It aids in restoring depleted nerve forces, tones up 
the system, and its use is highly beneficial in cases of nervous 
prostration and kidney disorders. May be used to advan- 
tage in soups. 

CORN TIMBALES. 

Beat five eggs until light; add one-half teaspoonful salt, 
one tablespoonful oil, one cupful cracker dust, and one pint 
green corn which has been grated from the cob. Pour into 
oiled timbale molds which have been dusted with finely- 
chopped parsley. Set in a baking pan of boiling water, 
cover with a sheet of oiled paper and cook in oven for 
twenty minutes. Serve with tomato sauce. Green corn on 
cob should be boiled for one hour, or, what is better, should 
be steamed in a steam cooker one to two hours. Do not 
serve with butter or animal fats ; it is the cause of acute and 
dangerous stomach disorders. 

109 



CUCUMBERS 

Are of value for salads, and should be used only when pre- 
pared as such. They contain no nutriment, but are very 
cooling to the blood when served with lemon juice, but not 
vinegar. 

DANDELION. 

Prepare same as spinach. Its blood-purifying properties 
are many. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Peel onions and put in covered saucepan with cold water 
and boil one hour. When done, add one tablespoonful 
chopped parsley, and a little flour mixed with sweet milk; 
boil five minutes, then serve. Young or old onions may be 
used, as preferred. 

SPINACH. 

Wash desired quantity of spinach, boil for ten minutes; 
pour off the water; add fresh boiling water and boil for 
one hour, or until tender. Add a little salt, lemon juice, and 
olive oil to taste. Do not mix butter or other animal oils 
with spinach. It will, in many instances, cause severe de- 
rangements of the stomach, and often cholera morbus. 
Spinach is a valuable blood purifier, and should be eaten 
whenever desired. 

STUFFED EGG PLANT. 

Wash a good-sized egg plant, put in kettle, cover with 
boiling water, to which has been added a little salt, and 
boil twenty minutes. Cut lengthwise into halves and care- 
fully take out the insides, leaving wall three-fourths of an 
inch in thickness. Mix the pulp just removed with one- 
fourth cupful cracker-dust, one-half cupful chopped or 
ground almonds, one tablespoonful olive oil, and a little 
salt. If the mixture is too dry, add a little milk. Fill the 
shells, heaping them up, sprinkle over a small quantity 

107 



cracker-dust, put in baking dish, set in brisk oven and bake 
until top is nicely browned, then serve. 

Egg plants may be cut in slices, soaked one hour in 
strong salt water, rolled in beaten egg and cracker-dust, 
fried in oil, then served. This vegetable has good food 
value and may be eaten at all times. 

OYSTER PLANT. 

After scraping, cut crosswise in thin slices ; put in suffi- 
cient water to cover and stew until quite tender. Add a lit- 
tle milk, olive oil and salt. May be served with toast if 
desired. 

POTATOES 

Should be sparingly eaten; much better not at all. They 
are not healthful at best. If it is necessary to eat them, 
bake them in an oven until well done. Eat the entire potato ; 
do not discard the peeling, as it is next to this that the 
nutriment lies. The sweet potato is the best variety. 

STRING BEANS. 

String, snap and wash two quarts beans ; boil in plenty 
of water for fifteen minutes ; drain, then pour over again 
two quarts boiling water. Boil one and one-half hours. 
Add a little salt, two tablespoonfuls oil into which has been 
creamed two tablespoonfuls of flour, and one cupful sweet 
cream. 

TOMATOES 

Are valuable for their acids, which are very beneficial to the 
system. They should be stewed until well done, seeds 
strained out, a little oil, salt and milk added ; then boil a few 
minutes before serving. It is well to use them in soups. 

TURNIPS, 

If tender, may be used occasionally. They are better in 
soups, as the nutriment contained is very low. 

108 



MIXED DISH. 

Take a can of peas and a can of asparagus. Put them 
in a pot of boiling water and heat for five to ten minutes. 
Open the cans and drain off the liquid from each. Put 
peas and asparagus into a bowl. Oil, pepper and salt to 
taste. Mix thoroughly and serve on lettuce with parsley. 
If you boil half a dozen fresh young potatoes with their 
jackets on over a quick fire, adding a teaspoonful of cara- 
way or sweet fennel seeds, drain as soon as they are done ; 
peel the potatoes and slice fine, mixing them with the peas 
and asparagus, this addition will improve the dish. Eaten 
with whole-wheat bread it will prove an ideal meal. The 
liquid remaining over from the vegetables will make body 
for soups or can be used with a little additional oil as an 
excellent purgative. 

USE OF POTATO. 

The only proper way to use a potato is to bake it in hot 
ashes, after having been washed and scrubbed thoroughly 
in cold water. The soil upon which the fire is made must 
be clay, and the fire, wood. This is the only method in 
which the soil substance of the potato may be redeemed to 
food properties, and skin and pulp have to be eaten alike. 
Another way to redeem the potato, if boiling it must be 
boiled quickly and with jackets on, the water to contain a 
good dash of caraway or dill seeds. 

POTATO SOUFFLE. 

Select large potatoes and have all the same size, if pos- 
sible. Bake until done. When done, cut each potato in two 
lengthwise and scoop out the inside with a spoon, being 
careful not to break the skins. Add to the potatoes a little 
salt and sufficient cream to make quite soft ; beat until very 
light and smooth and refill the skins with this. Now place 
the potatoes in a pan and return to the oven to brown on 
top. The potatoes will puff up considerably if well beaten 
before refilling the skin. 



lod 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

ZWIEBACK. 

Cut stale bread into slices, put into moderate oven and 
toast to a golden brown. May be eaten with milk or fruit 
juices. Is much improved by softening with hot water be- 
fore serving. 

CORNOLA. 

Field com, well parched and finely ground and soaked 
in hot milk or water, makes an excellent breakfast dish. 
Instead of sugar, use a small quantity of ground almonds, 
or pinon nut butter, or nut creams. 

GRAINENO. 

Rebalce whole-wheat or graham crackers in moderate oven 
for five minutes; break with rolling-pin or grind on mill 
to desired fineness. To three tablespoonfuls add two tea- 
spoonfuls roasted-peanut butter, pine nut cream, or ground 
almonds. Serve dry. Very beneficial in promoting flow of 
saliva. 

ORANGEADE. 

To the juice of one orange mix two teaspoonfuls pow- 
dered sugar, then add one beaten egg and three-fourths 
cupful water. A very refreshing drink. 

RICE WATER. 

Take two tablespoonfuls of rice ; wash it well, and put in 
jug, adding one good stick of cinnamon and one quart of 

110 



hot boiling water. Cover well. As soon as cold it will be 
ready to serve. May be used with lemon or any other juice 
to good advantage. If desired, the rice may be boiled slowly 
for an hour and then strained. 

CURRANT WINE. 

Dissolve one teaspoonful currant jelly in a glass of cold 
water, properly filtered. This makes a very healthful sum- 
mer drink. Other jellies, also hot water, may be used witli 
same result. 

ONION GRUEL. 

Boil one sliced onion and one tablespoonful rolled wheat 
or bran, adding a little salt, in one pint milk for fifteen 
minutes. Take from the fire and eat when sufficiently 
cooled. Is excellent for a cold, and should be taken just 
before going to bed. 

SORGHUM CAKE. 

Two cups flour, one cup sweet milk, one-half cup cocoa- 
nut butter, one heaping teaspoonful soda, one cup sorghum, 
one-half teaspoonful cinnamon or ginger; mix thoroughly; 
put in oiled pan and bake to a dark brown in hot oven. 

NUT COOKIES. 

Cream one cupful cocoanut butter with one pound light- 
brown sugar, add two well-beaten eggs, one cupful sweet 
milk, one cupful chopped hickory nuts (or other nuts may 
be used), and flour enough to stiflfen. Roll out, cut and 
bake in very quick oven. If olive or cooking oil is sub- 
stituted for cocoanut butter, use only one-third or one-half 
cupful. 

MAZDAZNAN CAKE. 

Cook one cup of sugar and four tablespoonfuls of water 
until it threads. Add it to the beaten whites of three eggs, 
stirring until cool. Add the yolks of the eggs and one cup 

111 



of flour. Beat quickly; flavor with vanilla and bake in a 
quick oven. Serve with Dutch Frosting. 

DUTCH FROSTING. 

To two well-beaten eggs add one cupful of granulated 
sugar and two grated apples of good size, a few drops of 
lemon flavor. Keep beating until snow white. To be served 
with plain layer cake. 

NUT CREAMS. 

As soon as creams are laid on plate, over each put the 
meat of any nut desired. Ground nuts may be mixed with 
the creams before shaping. Makes a very delicious con- 
fection. 

COCOANUT CANDY. 

Dissolve one pound powdered sugar in four tablespoon- 
fuls of water; put in graniteware saucepan and set on fire; 
when it begins to boil, stir in one pound shredded cocoanut. 
Continue boiling until flaky and pour in oiled plates or 
pans. Cut in squares when sufficiently cooled. 

PLAIN NUTS. 

To three tablespoonfuls ground peanuts add one-half 
cupful finely-crushed bread crumbs, two eggs, one-half 
cupful milk. Season to taste. Drop with spoon into hot 
oil and brown. Instead of peanuts, use pine nuts. 

PEANUT-PRUIT. 

Boil in two cupfuls milk two cupfuls ground raw peanuts ; 
add one cupful finely-chopped celery, one-half cupful seeded 
raisins or figs, one teaspoonful sweet marjoram, two tea- 
spoonfuls oil, one teaspoonful salt, one tablespoonful bread 
crumbs, two eggs ; mix well. Shape into small balls and dip 
into following batter: Two tablespoonfuls flour, one egg, 
pinch of salt, mixed well with one cupful milk. Fry to 
golden brown in hot oil and serve with or without dressing. 

113 



BUTTER 

May be used if absolutely fresh ; otherwise it should be 
clarified by cooking it over slow fire and skimming the foam. 
As soon as clear put up in earthenware vessels. To be used 
with grain preparations only and some tart or sub-acid 
fruits. 

APPLE OMELET. 

Pare and core four large apples. Boil until tender and 
rub through sieve ; beat smooth while hot and add one 
tablespoonful cocoanut butter, three tablespoonfuls sugar 
and one-half teaspoonful ground cinnamon. Whip sepa- 
rately the whites and yolks of four eggs ; add yolks first 
to the beaten apple, mixing well, then the whites. Pour all 
into a pudding dish and bake to a delicate brown in a mod- 
erate oven. The addition of pinon butter improves flavor, 

EGG PLANT OMELET. 

Pare one egg plant and cut in slices ; soak one hour in 
strong salt water. Take from salt water and put in sauce- 
pan, adding fresh water, and boil until tender. When done, 
mash, and, when cold, add five well-beaten eggs. Put in 
double boiler and cook thirty minutes. Serve on nicely- 
browned toast and garnish with parsley, 

FRENCH FRITTERS. 

One cup flour, one-half cup cold water, two eggs, one 
tablespoonful of olive oil, one-half teaspoonful of salt. Put 
the flour into a bowl ; beat the yolks of the eggs, add the 
cold water and stir this gradually into the flour ; if neces- 
sary, add more water and give a good, vigorous beating. 
Now add the salt and oil, and stir in the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, and put away for at least two hours, 
but not longer than ten hours, according to season. Put a 
kettle of oil on to heat, and when hot (360 degrees) dip up 
a spoonful of the batter and quickly slide into the kettle of 
oil ; when brown on one side turn and brown the other. 
When done, take out with a skimmer, don't use a fork, as 

118 



piercing allows the steam to escape and makes the fritters 
heavy. Fruit fritters are made by dipping the fruit into 
this batter and then frying or boiling in oil. 

RASPBERRIES, 

Like blackberries, should be used only for making wines and 
jellies. The seeds and pulp affect the digestive organs in 
such a way as to cause great distress. They should not, 
in any case, be given to invalids or convalescents. The 
juice is very refreshing and may be freely used. 

STRAWBERRIES 

Are very beneficial, and make their appearance in the spring 
and early summer in time to be of great value as a blood 
purifier. They should be freely eaten, but well masticated 
to reduce the seeds which might, in some instances, cause 
distress to the stomach. Strawberries are rich in iron. 

PINEAPPLES 

Are from "the garden of the gods." They furnish a food 
of great value to those who live in tropical climes. The 
juice is very soothing to the digestive organs, and numerous 
cases of chronic dyspepsia have been completely cured by 
their use. When canned pineapples are used, select those 
which have been preserved in glass jars in preference to 
the ones in tin cans, as the acid forms a poisonous oxide in 
the latter case. 

PICKLED BEETS. 

Boil beets until soft; peel and slice them, then pour on 
lemon juice while they are hot and set away to cool. 

PERSIAN PICKLE. 

Take one quart small green tomatoes, one quart small 
onions, one quart string beans, one cauliflower, one cupful 
nasturtium seed, two quarts pure cider vinegar, two pounds 
sugar, two ounces turmeric, two ounces mustard seed, one 

114 



cupful olive oil, two ounces ground mustard. Parboil the 
onions, beans and cauliflower separately; put the nastur- 
tium seed and green tomatoes in brine for twenty-four 
hours ; heat vinegar, mix turmeric and mustard in a little 
cold vinegar, add to hot vinegar, stirring with wooden spoon 
until thick, then add oil, sugar and mustard seed. Cook four 
minutes and pour over prepared vegetables. Pack in earthen- 
ware or glass jars. 

INDIAN CHUTNEY. 

Pare, core and chop in small square pieces half a pound 
of sour apples ; add one-half pound each of tomatoes, brown 
sugar, stoned raisins, one-fourth pound each onions and 
garlic, and two ounces each cayenne pepper and ground gin- 
ger, and one quart lemon juice. Mix all well together and 
put in closely-covered jar. 

PLAIN APPLE CUSTARD. 

To each cupful of apple sauce, add two well-beaten eggs 
and one-half cupful fresh milk. Fill crust-lined plates, 
sprinkle on a little ground cinnamon, or add vanilla flavor- 
ing, cut strips and lay crosswise, then bake in oven. 

COCOANUT CUSTARD. 

This variation is made by adding grated cocoanut to the 
custard before baking. Treat same as custard pie. If 
shredded cocoanut is used, it should be boiled in milk until 
soft. 

RAISIN-NUT SANDWICH. 

Chop finely one-half pound each seeded layer raisins and 
English walnuts. Moisten with two tablespoonfuls grape 
juice, then spread on slices of bread and lay together. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Take fresh tomatoes. Scoop out the middle. Mash up 
fine and put through colander. Put into bowl to make a 

115 



stufi&ng by adding chopped nuts, onions, hard-boiled eggs, 
finely-cut parsley, flaked rice, salt and pepper to suit taste 
and stir into a paste. Then fill your tomatoes with the 
stuffing and bake. May be served without baking upon 
lettuce leaves garnished with cress and nasturtiums. 

VEGETABLE DISH. 

As in the mixed dish, you can make use of any canned 
vegetables and combining two or three, heating the cans 
before opening them you can prepare ever so many nice 
dishes. Asparagus, mushrooms and green beans make an 
ideal combination, especially when served with mint or let- 
tuce leaves sprinkled with green onions or celery. 

IN LIVER TROUBLES 

And heart affections abstain principally from hulled grains, 
pulses, lentils, potatoes, prunes, red and blue grapes, figs, 
plums, peaches and black cherries. 

ROLLED WHEAT. 

Two bananas sliced finely and mixed with one-half cup- 
ful of rolled wheat is a dish fit for the gods. 

PEASANT EGG. 

To one yolk of an egg, well beaten, add a cupful of water 
and a pinch of salt. Flavor with a little lemon juice. 

SPINACH SALAD. 

Cut fine three cups of spinach and two onions, half a 
cupful of parsley. Mix all together. Add a pinch of thyme, 
olive oil to suit taste and lemon juice or Decimayonnaise. 
Serve with mushrooms and red rice. 

VEGETABLE SALAD. 

One cupful each of cabbage, celery, cauliflower, asparagus 
and tomatoes, two large onions, all finely chopped. Add 
two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, a pinch of celery seeds. 
Serve upon lettuce leaves with salad dressings. 

lie 



HEALTH RULES. 



Eat only when absolutely hungry. 

Do not eat an early breakfast or immediately after aris- 
ing from a night's rest. 

Always work for several hours before partaking of food. 

Instead of drinking any water, a little juicy fruit may be 
taken in the morning. The fruit should be eaten very 
slowly and masticated until tasteless. 

Never eat nuts or any other oily foods unless hungry. 

Too many nuts and too much raw oil will cause eruptions 
of the skin, pimples, sores, blotches, etc., as will also too 
many sweet fruits, particularly the dried kinds. Eating too 
much cream, eggs, cheese and butter will produce the same 
effect. 

When bowels get too loose, avoid fruits and vegetables 
and use nuts and grain preparations only. In case the loose- 
ness of the bowels causes aches and pains, use a little 
browned flour or make brown flour gravies, which are to 
be used with your meals. 

Do not drink with your meals. If eating slowly and 
mixing solids with the saliva no drink will be required. 

Never mix vegetables and fruits together at one meal. 
Keep them separate. 

You can have grains, nuts and fruits at one meal and 
grains, nuts and vegetables at another meal. 

Use nuts in very small quantities and use them rather 
regularly, combined with other foods. 

Do not eat when served under rather unpleasant surround- 
ings and a spirit of depression, nor food prepared by per- 
sons of a hasty and uncontrollable temperament, as the food, 
however pleasant to the palate, will be a detriment to the 
system. 

Do not eat unless you have earned your meal, unless you 
are assured and certain you are entitled to the same. 

117 



DIETARY RULES. 

When vegetables or too many sweet fruits are used at a 
meal something tart, sub-acid or even acid, like lemon, 
tomato, rhubarb, etc., should be used. 

Concentrated foods, whether sun-produced or scien- 
tifically prepared, must be counterbalanced with foods con- 
taining eliminative, consequently waste tendencies to insure 
regularity in action. 

Remember that in eating quality, not quantity, is to be 
considered. The better the flavor, the finer and more deli- 
cate the taste and looks of the fruits, the less is required. 
The sweeter and more oily the nuts, the easier digestible. 
The more crisp and fresh the vegetables, the more elimina- 
tive and refreshing. The more recently the grain has been 
prepared, the fresher the flour, the drier the cereal, all the 
more nourishing it is, consequently less will be required, 
and the system will not run the risk of becoming clogged. 

Whatever your ailment is, abstain from your usual foods 
entirely and do not take any food until hunger determines 
the kind. In every instance we should, in accordance to 
our trouble or temperament, make our choice from one or 
two of the following fruits or vegetables : Pineapple, apple, 
orange, lemon, grape, asparagus, celery, tomatoes, rhubarb, 
celery, parsley, etc. We use only the juice, and reject the 
pulp. 

For night work or evening study, use a few grapes, 
scraped apple with orange juice, oranges, tomatoes, seeded 
raisins sprinkled with fresh-ground almond meal, or sip 
lemonade without sweetening. 

Children as well as adults must abstain from all solids 
when ailing, and only such fluids as fruit juices and herb 
decoctions administered to and only then when feeling the 
necessity of something substantial. 

118 



DIETARY FOODS. 

REJUVENATING FOODS 

Are strawberries, blueberries, gooseberries, fresh grapes, 
fresh figs, tart apples, pineapples, pears, peaches, oranges, 
persimmons and grapefruit when combined with wheat, 
rolled, cracked or ground ; also with rice and sago, almonds 
and pine nuts. 

FOR GENERAL IMPROVEMENT 

Of health and appearance select fresh milk smoothed with 
lemon or tomato juice, fresh buttermilk, skim milk, clabber, 
white of eggs, cottage cheese or cream cheese. Combine 
with mushrooms and wheat or rice, tart fruits and barley, 
rye or rice and sago. Fresh vegetables with nuts and grains 
of any kind. 

FOR VITALITY AND MENTAL STRENGTH 

Make selections in smaller quantities, combining two or 
three things for one meal, as follows: The white of eggs 
with grains, blanched almonds, apples or pears. Tomatoes, 
asparagus, spinach, combined with grains, particularly rice 
and milk, with or without lemon juice or tomato juice. 
Cauliflower, celery or raw cabbage eaten with grains and 
lemonade or white of eggs beaten with lemon juice. Grapes, 
oranges and pears with rice, sago or wheat and pine nuts. 

FOR CURE OP CONSTIPATION 

And to promote bowel action select apples, apricots, pears, 
small berries, tart fruits, plums and all fresh green vege- 
tables — tomatoes, rhubarb and watercress. Combine one or 

no 



more with raw peanuts or pine nuts. For drink use butter- 
milk or fruil juices, also cream thinned down with three to 
four parts of filtered water. Avoid cooked foods as much 
as possible, particularly cereals, toast and hot milk. Abstain 
from dairy foods in general, acid fruits, blue and red grapes, 
stimulants, cocoa, herbs and vinegar. 

FOR MORAL STRENGTH 

And sweet temper confine yourself to fresh berries, apples, 
grapes, oranges, tomatoes, melons, squashes, green vege- 
tables, rice, sago and wheat, pine nuts, walnuts, chestnuts 
and filberts. Use foods in a cold state rather than prepared. 
Do not eat or drink hot dishes. 

FATTENING FOODS. 

Vegetables with savories and oils when combined with eggs, 
grains, cakes and sweets. Fruits, particularly preserved, 
jams and jellies, when combined with grains, rice, sago, 
hominy, oils, butter and cream, fruits being spiced. Grains, 
particularly corn and wheat, when combined with figs, dates, 
prunes, peanuts, pine nuts, filberts and additional cream. 
Chew grain frequently until all taste is gone and expel the 
pulp. Eat plenty of fruit and keep bowels open. Never 
worry. Entertain no ideas unless absolutely necessary. 
Take cold sponge baths and rub body with oils and spices. 

THINNING FOODS. 

Green vegetables with lemon and tomato juice; butter- 
milk, white of eggs with lemon, lemonades without sweet- 
ening, acid fruits with cracked wheat and rolled oats or 
flaked rice, milk with lemon and pineapple juice, cheese 
and lemon juice eaten with wheat preparations, acid fruits 
for breakfast and sweet fruits with lemon or persimmon 
juices at night, rhubarb, spinach, white of egg and rice. 
Bathe much, take alcohol and cornstarch rubs, 

FOODS PROMOTING IMMORAL AND SEX 
TROUBLES. 

Tea, coffee, cocoa, alcoholic drinks, tobacco, kumyss, 
clabber, oats, manufactured cheese, eggs, pastry, cakes, 

120 



sodas, spices, savories, also potatoes and peanuts if wrongly 
combined. Avoid large gatherings, political and theatrical 
meetings, etc., until able to control. 

TO ELIMINATE SEX TROUBLES, 

Confine yourself to a simple diet of two or three things at 
a time from the following: Small fresh berries, apples, 
pears, grapes, oranges, pomegranates, lemons, melons, 
squash, tomatoes, rhubarb, celery, lettuce, watercress, green 
onions, cabbage, fresh corn, pearl and unpolished barley, 
unpolished rice, whole wheat, rolled, cracked or ground, 
dried bread, pine nuts and cocoanuts. Eat sparingly and 
leave the table still hungry. Take many walks in very cold 
weather. 

HEART TROUBLES 

Are the result of a torpid liver. To overcome these troubles 
abstain from an excessive use of fatty, rich, starchy, sweet 
foods, eggs, cream, chocolate, stimulants, and use more 
juicy fruits, but no water. Eat more fruit combined with 
nut creams, sun-dried bread, fresh greens, dandelion, water- 
pepper, mustard leaves, cress, tart apples, lemons, tomatoes, 
rhubarb, rice, macaroni, cottage cheese, buttermilk, clabber. 

NERVOUSNESS 

Is induced by the use of drinks with meals and the use of 
bread and butter with tea or coffee ; cakes with cocoa or 
chocolate ; puddings and custards, pies and pastries exces- 
sively spiced and used with ices and lemonades. Avoid all 
this and confine yourself to very slow eating, selecting 
foods as in case of indigestion, confining yourself to two 
meals and abstain from social dinners. 

INDIGESTION AND DYSPEPSIA 

Will be easily overcome by avoiding drinks with meals. 
Abstain from the use of soups and cereals unless cooked 
for hours. Use no dairy foods, no oils, and nuts sparingly 
and only when combined with fruits. Select from the fol- 

121 



lowing: Apples, oranges, pears, peaches, pomegranates, 
cranberries, cherries, citron, ginger fruit, green grapes, fresh 
figs, ripe olives, asparagus, cauliflower, horseradish, green 
corn, beans and peas, pumpkin, squash, rhubarb, spinach, 
turnips, gluten preparations as macaroni, spaghetti, sub- 
acid berries, parsnips, almonds and pine nuts in the form of 
creams. Eat raw or prepared. Do not eat anything that 
nauseates you or disagrees with you. 

IN LUNG OR PULMONARY TROUBLES, 

Coughs, colds, catarrhs, bronchial affections, abstain from 
all dairy foods, eggs, stone fruits, including blue grapes. 

KIDNEY TROUBLES. 

Abstain principally from eggs, water, oats, rye, rice, 
pears, plums, walnuts, Brazil nuts, chestnuts, pulses, dried 
fruits. Confine yourself mostly to solid foods in their raw 
state, using freely skimmed milk and cream thinned with 
lemon juice or orange juice, pine nut creams, fresh fruits, 
gruels boiled for four or more hours, green vegetables. 

MENTAL OR INTELLECTUAL FOODS 

For students, masters, virtuosos, artists, geniuses, and all 
those in search of spiritual knowledge. First live so as 
to eUminate all morbid substances from the system, adhere 
to simple diet and by prayer and fasting gain that station 
in life where the selection of food becomes limited yet most 
gratifying in your pursuit after knowledge. Confine your- 
self principally to the use of almonds, raisins, oranges, 
lemons, transparent grapes, raw grains, by masticating 
them thoroughly, expelling the pulp as soon as absolutely 
tasteless. Use vegetables only in season, as nature pro- 
duces them according to climatic conditions. Eat apples 
freely. Deviate from regular diet only periodically with 
change of seasons. Abstain from dairy foods except when 
absolutely necessary to counteract certain tendencies. Do 
not eat unless you can do so with pleasure and attention to 
the food and its value to your system. 

123 



RAW FOOD. 

Mazdaznan is too broad, too liberal, to be partial, and 
does not condemn cooked, baked, roasted or prepared foods, 
although it does hold to economy in all departments of life. 
Mazdaznan favors raw foods wherever available and when- 
ever in season and adaptable to the climate. Much will de- 
pend upon the individual's temperament and knowledge of 
selection. Cooking, baking and roasting do not destroy the 
life principle of the vegetation, but they change its soil prop- 
erties, consequently the salts and acids, to such an extent 
that almost twice the quantity of cooked food becomes neces- 
sary to get the same results that raw food insures. The 
exclusive use of cooked foods is detrimental because of the 
excessive amount of food impossible for the system to as- 
similate. Partly cooked and prepared foods during the cold- 
er season are commendable. Raw foods can be prepared 
more daintily, more elaborately decorative and more appe- 
tizing than otherwise, and by a little experimenting hun- 
dreds of dishes can be prepared to meet everybody's 
demands, requirements and tastes. 

Mazdaznan favors simplicity, economy and holds that a 
rapidly progressing individual outgrows readily and easily 
all of the complications in food matters, leaning more and 
more to the simple foods as nature furnishes them, select- 
ing as necessity demands and with as little preparation as 
possible. In the following pages we shall give just a few 
recipes which Vv^ill be suggestive of many combinations suit- 
able to the individual's demands and needs. A little prac- 
tice will develop a gift for limitless combinations. 



1S8 



GENERAL FOOD RULES. 



GRAINS. 

Rolled grains, broken, cracked, ground (coarse or fine), 
may be soaked in water or prepared with water into cakes 
or loaves, crackers, gruels, etc. 

CEREALS. 

Rolled, cracked and flaked grains, including rice, sago, 
tapioca, pulses as beans, peas, lentils, when combined with 
grains, may be mixed with fruits and nuts or vegetables 
and dairy foods and nuts. In combining with fruits, spices 
may be used, but combining with vegetables savories only 
should be admitted. 

NUTS. 

Combine with any dish. Grapefruit, oranges, pineapples 
and lemons are most desirable fruits for nut creams, allow- 
ing dairy cream. Tomatoes, rhubarb, sorrel and other tart 
vegetables agree well with nuts and make up fine nut 
creams, allowing dairy creams. Use nuts sparingly, but 
regularly with your meals. 

GREEN VEGETABLES, 

Such as beans, peas, cucumbers, egg plant, spinach, etc., after 
they are sliced or cut fine, should be thoroughly salted and 
allowed to remain in salt for one-half hour, and then 
washed quickly in cold water. Any vegetable combines with 
nuts, grains and dairy products. Water should not be used 
with vegetables. 

124 



FRUITI. 

Any fruit will combine with nuts and grain and in some 
instances with dairy foods. Care should be taken in never 
combining water with fruits when living upon raw foods. 

DAIRY FOODS. 

In raw food diet for health purposes dairy foods are 
permissible, although the frequent use of same cannot be 
recommended. They prove a good "means to an end," 
particularly where we are outgrowing the flesh-eating and 
partly the habitual cooked food dietary. 

Milk, cream, butter and cheese may be used. Also eggs 
can be used to advantage. Nut creams will prove more bene- 
ficial than dairy creams, although the latter when combined 
with the former and small quantities of grain or fruit will 
often prove of inestimable value until we have learned more 
by close observation. Dairy foods in a raw food diet should 
not be mixed. Only one kind should be used for a com- 
bine with grains, fruits and nuts, or vegetables, nuts and 
grains. Do not use eggs and milk at the same time, nor 
butter, cheese and eggs. When using dairy products, acid, 
sub-acid, or tart fruits or vegetables should be combined 
with a meal. In the following pages we shall give a few 
combinations that will enable us to make proper selection. 

WATER. 

This element is an excellent food, most economical, but 
not always advisable, and is better in its distilled form as 
nature supplies it in the form of vegetables and fruits. A 
better water than this and a more wholesome will not be 
found even though the artificial means may be ever so 
costly and ingeniously constructed. If your system_ needs 
fluids resort to juicy fruits. In eating scrape the fruit with 
your front teeth. Masticate thoroughly, mixing it with 
saliva. This will prove of greater medicinal value and 
remove more troubles in one day than all the sciences com- 
bined shall be able to accomplish in centuries. Never use 
water with fruits or vegetables. 

135 



BEVERAGES and DRINKS. 



HEALTH DRINK. 

Take one dozen each of Italian chestnuts and dates. Grind 
it all fine and pour a pint of sweet milk over it. Set aside 
for an hour. Strain before using. If left over night grind 
the nuts coarse. Used with malted grains and a few raw 
peanuts it will bring about the desired effect. An excellent 
morning drink. 

MORNING DRINK. 

At night before retiring to bed take three figs, two dates, 
two tablespoonfuls of raw peanuts with the brown skin, six 
chestnuts peeled, but with brown skin adhering. Grind or 
chop them all together. Pour over the mixture either water 
or sweet milk. Stir it before setting aside. In the morn- 
ing strain through flannel cloth and drink any desired quan- 
tity. It is mildly laxative. 

POPPY DRINK. 

Grind fine two tablespoonfuls of poppy seeds and add to 
one cupful of water or milk. Set aside in porcelain or 
earthenware dish for an hour or more. This makes a nice 
drink before retiring, also a fine drink at any time. The 
poppy seeds must not be fresh. 

FOOD DRINK. 

Take a cupful of sweet milk and beat it quickly, add the 
juice of half a lemon, pouring juice slowly. Fine summer 
drink and is good for invalids. May be used moderately 
in winter. 

196 



E6Q DRINK. 

Take the whites of two eggs. Beat until frothy. Gradu- 
ally beat into it one-half cup of cream and lastly the juice 
of half a lemon. Used with a few nuts and a tablespoonful 
of raw wheat it will prove nourishing. 

HOME BUTTERMILK. 

Make your own buttermilk, a drink most desirable for 
convalescents. It is refreshing and cooling in winter and 
occasionally in summer. Take one pint of milk, stir it 
continuously while dropping little by little the juice of one 
lemon. In beating vigorously, the milk, although curdling, 
will be smooth. You can flavor with any fruit juice. 

COLD TEA OR COFFEE. 

Take unroasted, sun-dried coffee berries, grind them fine 
and to every cupful of water use one tablespoonful. Set 
aside for half an hour or more. Strain through cheese 
cloth or flannel. May be used with cream for medicinal 
purposes with good results. 

In preparing Russian or Oriental tea in general proceed 
the same as with coffee. Take two teaspoonfuls of tea to 
one-half cupful of water. Set aside for thirty minutes. 
Add any desired quantity of water, milk or cream, and strain 
immediately thereafter. Tea or coffee may be soaked in 
milk if desired. 

COCOANUT DRINKS. 

Take the milk of cocoanut and dilute with an equal quan- 
tity of water or sweet milk and pour over two tablespoon- 
fuls of finely-ground blanched peanuts. Set aside for sev- 
eral hours or over night. In the morning strain it well. 
Drink it freely. Instead of cocoanut milk grate fresh cocoa- 
nut fine and pour enough of lemon juice over it to cover 
well. Set aside for hours. Then mash it all fine and add 
any desired quantity of water, straining it several times. 
It is very wholesome and may be used with milk instead 
of water. 

127 



BREAD. 



DAILY BREAD. 

Take one cupful of whole wheat and run it through a 
grinder coarsely. Next grind one-half cupful of raw pea- 
nuts and one-fourth cupful of pitted dried prunes. Mix 
these together and eat dry. Will aid in regular habits and 
cure ailments of the bowels if eaten daily for several weeks 
alternated with some of the following dishes. Use at one 
meal a day only. 

FORCE BREAD. 

Grind in a mill one-half cupful of whole wheat, one tea- 
spoonful each of pearl barley and rye. Mix with two table- 
spoonfuls of raw peanuts and one tablespoonful of pine or 
Brazil nuts ; add one-half cupful of dried apples. Moisten 
with unfermented apple juice. Form into small cakes and 
expose to the hot sun for half an hour. Eat slowly and 
masticate thoroughly. Use no drink with this bread. 

PROMOTION BREAD. 

Soak barley in enough water to cover. Let it soak until 
the glume begins to rise, which requires from twelve to 
thirty-six hours in accordance to temperature. Pour off 
water, if any present. Set out dish into strong sunlight 
and where the breeze will fan it. Spread out the barley on 
paper so as to dry quick. Now grind it and add an equal 
quantity of raw peanuts. After thorough mixing add enough 
rice flour to make it roll into little balls which are to be 
dipped into the white of an egg beaten with some lemon 
juice, orange or pineapple ; smooth with rice flour and make 
a meal of it with additional fruit, small or seed fruits, which 

12S 



should be tart. Eaten two to three times a week, making 
a meal of it, will prove beneficial. 

NUT BREAD. 

Grind coarse one-half cupful blanched almonds, one table- 
spoonful walnuts, two tablespoonfuls pine nuts. Add one- 
half cupful flaked oats (or wheat, barley, rice, corn, peas, 
beans or lentils). Mix it all thoroughly and moisten with 
milk, water or fruit juices. Spread in a thin layer. Sprinkle 
the top with St. John's bread flour or chestnut flour and 
expose to the heat of the sunlight for at least one hour. 
May be eaten with grapefruit or tomatoes. 

POPPY BREAD. 

Take one-half cupful of poppy seeds, two figs, one date, 
three pods of St. John's (locust) bread, one cupful chest- 
nuts. Grind them all together. Mix with two tablespoon- 
fuls rice flour. Moisten with any fruit juice, cream or 
white of eggs. Roll out until stiff. Pat it in rice flour and 
allow to dry in the sun. 

CHESTNUT BREAD. 

One pound finely-ground chestnuts, two tablespoonfuls 
ground peanuts, one pound flaked rice moistened with milk 
to make into loaves. Set out in the sun for an hour. Cut 
into slices and serve with fruit or vegetables. 

HEALTH BREAD. 

Two cupfuls of flaked wheat, one cupful of whole-wheat 
flour, one-half cupful of finely-ground rice and two cupfuls 
of finely-grated cocoanut. Mix and moisten with water 
into which you have beaten the white of an egg. Add the 
water slowly, mixing well. Make it a light substance. 
Roll it out with rice flour. If you want to keep the bread 
for any length of time, roll the dough out very thin with a 
rolling pin. Cut it into long, narrow strips. Let these 
strips dry. Put away in oiled paper bags. Will keep in- 
definitely. If you wish, you may use the yolks of eggs as 
well, but use little or no water. Eaten witii fruit juices or 
cream this bread will prove very palatable. 

129 



CEREALS. 



WHEAT DISH. 

Pick over a cupful of wheat grain and pour enough 
water over same to cover it well. Let it stand for four or 
more hours. Add two tablespoonfuls finely-ground raw 
peanuts and one cupful scraped apples. Mix them thor- 
oughly and eat slowly. Very nutritious and highly 
palatable. 

ROLLED OATS. 

Soak one-half cupful rolled oats in one cupful any fruit 
juice (except lemon) for fifteen minutes and sprinkle with 
almond meal. 

GRAPE GRAIN. 

The juice of grapes mixed with cracked or rolled wheat 
is the most palatable and easily-digested food. Use fruit 
juices two-thirds to one-third the quantity of grain. 

WHEAT DISH. 

Soak for half an hour one cupful cracked wheat in two 
cupfuls milk. Add a little pineapple to flavor and sprinkle 
blanched almonds or pine nuts over it. 

MUSH. 

Take one cupful of rolled oats and spread in a large 
Bowl. Over this put a layer of sliced pineapple, a very thin 
layer of rolled wheat, a layer of one cupful of mixed nuts, 
well chopped or ground, another layer of pineapple. Pour 
over the whole the juice of three oranges. Set aside for an 
hour and serve with milk or cream. 

130 



CAKES. 



CAKE. 

Take one-half cupful of wheat and soak in one cupful of 
water for six hours. Then mash the wheat as fine as pos- 
sible, add to it twelve blanched almonds, chopped, one 
tablespoonful of pine nuts and one tablespoonful of pecans, 
finely ground; two tablespoonfuls of seeded raisins, cut 
with scissors. Mix thoroughly and spread on a dish to the 
thickness of half an inch. Cover it with the frothing of one 
tgg and pour the milk of a cocoanut over it. 

SHORT CAKE. 

Soak the rolled wheat of one cupful in enough water to 
cover for about one hour. Instead of water, fruit juices may 
be used for soaking. Put a thin layer on plate and spread 
your fruit upon it. May be eaten with cream. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Take five tablespoonfuls of seeded raisins, two table- 
spoonfuls of cleaned currants, one tablespoonful each of 
figs, citron, dates and ginger fruit ; chop well and mix thor- 
oughly. Add three tablespoonfuls of pine nuts, two table- 
spoonfuls of blanched almonds, chopped very fine, four 
tablespoonfuls of well-grated cocoanut. Cream three table- 
spoonfuls of butter with two tablespoonfuls of whole-wheat 
flour. Pour over it all one-half cupful of orange juice and 
two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Knead into it two table- 
spoonfuls of rice flour and work it well, adding the whites 
of four eggs, well beaten. Roll it out on chestnut flour. 
Cut into squares and dry it in the sun. Serve with whipped 
cream or nut cream. 



CREAMS AND DRESSINGS. 



NUT CREAM. 

Three tablespoonfuls of pine nuts, six blanched almonds, 
four walnuts, one Brazil nut. Grind fine. Add enough 
lemon juice to make a cream and let stand for four hours 
or over night before using. This cream may be used in 
connection with any fruit or vegetable salad. 

NUTOL CREAM. 

Two Brazil nuts, five filberts, nine pecans ; grind fine ; 
add one teaspoonful of almond oil ; use as much lemon 
juice as needed to make a cream and set aside for four hours 
or more before using, 

PINE NUT. 

One-half cupful of pine nuts, and one Brazil nut, ground 
fine. Add lemon juice or lemon and orange juice to make 
into a cream. Beat thoroughly until smooth and set aside. 

ORANGE CREAM. 

One cupful of pine nuts, ten pecans, grind fine ; mix with 
plenty of orange juice and work it smooth. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM. 

Six Brazil nuts, twelve pecans, one-half cupful pine nuts. 
Grind fine. Use as much pineapple juice as necessary to 
make a thick paste and thin down with grape or orange 
juice. 

183 



APPLE CREAM. 

Cut and grind two apples and mash smooth with the 
juice of one lemon. Grind one-half cupful of pine nuts and 
add to the above. Keep beating until creamy. Set aside or 
use immediately, by adding sweet cream with spice flavor 
to suit taste. 

SWEET CREAM. 

Take one tablespoonful pine nuts, one teaspoon ful pecans, 
grind fine and smooth out with one cupful of rich cream. 
Set aside for half an hour. If desired, beat into same one 
teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

POPPY CREAM. 

Take one tablespoonful each of poppy seeds, pecans and 
filberts ; grind fine ; pour over it one cupful of cream. Beat 
it well. Set aside for any desired time before using. Can 
be used with grains, fruits or vegetables. Flavored with 
fresh pineapple or orange juice it will prove very desirable. 

DECIMAYONNAISE. 

One yolk of an egg beaten thoroughly in a cold dish. 
Add two tablespoonfuls of olive oil cooled with ice. Keep 
beating vigorously and adding one-half teaspoonful of mus- 
tard, a good pinch of celery salt, a speck of cayenne pepper^ 
and lastly two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. It takes ten 
minutes of quick work to make it smooth. 

OIL DRESSING. 

Take one tablespoonful of oil. Beat it in a cold dish; 
add to it the yolk of an egg well beaten. Beat together 
until creamed. Then beat into it one tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, a pinch of mustard, dash of cayenne pepper and 
salt 

AMINA. 

Mash fine two apples and grind up two tablespoonfuls of 
raisins or pecans. Work smooth. Sweeten with a little 
honey and add, just before using, a pinch of fresh ground 
cinnamon. May be thinned down with rich cream if de- 
sired 



EGGS. 



EGGS. 

With nuts and grain, eggs will prove an ideal food, par- 
ticularly the whites. The yolks may be used with milks and 
creams and can be utiHzed in the preparation of dressings 
for vegetable salads or milk soups. When using eggs fre- 
quently use quantities of green and sub-acid vegetables. 

YOKOHAMA EGGS. 

Take the yolk of two eggs. Beat until foaming. Salt a 
trifle. Now pour, drop by drop, of lemon juice. One lemon 
will suffice. Flavor with a pinch of saffron. Eat with rice 
soaked in milk. 

YOULKA EGG. 

Take the yolks of two eggs. Beat for five minutes. Stir 
into it one pint of sweet milk, dash of salt. Keep beating 
for five more minutes. Flavor with pineapple or any other 
juice. Combines with St. John's bread. 

BEULAH EGG. 

Beat into a froth the whites of two eggs. Add slowly 
the juice of half a lemon. Keep beating for a few minutes. 
Combines with nuts, rice and fruits with good results. Do 
not use milk with such a meal. 

SULTANA EGG. 

Froth the whites of two eggs. Beat them into two finely- 
scraped apples. Beat until smooth and white. Add one 
cupful of cocoanut milk and one tablespoonful of finely- 
ground cocoanut. Flavor with vanilla and cinnamon water. 
Eat with flaked rice. 

184 



SALADS. 



VEGETABLE SALAD. 

Take two raw beets, one raw turnip and one raw carrot 
and grate or grind moderately fine. Mix thoroughly, adding 
two teaspoonfuls of ground pinon nuts or walnuts. Use 
lemon juice to season. Salt to taste. Serve upon selected 
raw cabbage leaves trimmed with celery. Any of the dress- 
ings may be used if desired. 

ROYAL SALAD. 

Grind or grate raw beets, carrots, onions and turnips, 
two of each, or cut fine ; double the quantity of raw cabbage. 
Mix it all together. Salt to taste. Sprinkle well with 
celery seeds. Season with lemon ; add two tablespoonfuls 
of oil ; mix thoroughly. Serve with white of two eggs 
thoroughly beaten with lemon juice, one lemon to the whites 
of two eggs. 

FRUTA SALAD. 

Cut fine with scissors fifteen seeded raisins, three prunes 
and one fig, and spread over one-half cupful of mashed 
malted barley, rolled oats or wheat. Pour over it one-half 
cupful of nut cream and let it stand for fifteen minutes 
before serving. 

DELICIA SALAD. 

Slice one apple, two bananas and three prunes. Spread 
over one-half cupful of soaked grain of any kind and serve 
with nut cream. 

135 



VEGEFRUrr. 

Slice two tomatoes, one small onion, the tops of green 
onions, about one tablespoonful, one tablespoon ful of finely- 
chopped parsley, a pinch of celery seeds, one tablespoonful 
of finely-ground Brazil nuts, one tablespoonful of olive oil. 
Serve upon lettuce leaves with Cream Mayonnaise. 

JARAH. 

One sliced pear, twelve grapes, one orange, one table- 
spoonful each of finely-ground walnuts and pine nuts. 
Serve with flaked rice in an orange peel, using nut cream if 
desired. 

PIG SALAD. 

Six figs, one date and two sweet prunes, finely chopped. 
Add two tablespoonfuls of finely-ground St. John's bread 
(locust fruit), and the juice of two persimmons. Served 
with flaked tapioca and rice makes a meal. 

VEGETABLE SALAD. 

Cut fine one head of lettuce, two onions, two tomatoes. 
Chop up one cupful of fresh sweet peas and two table- 
spoonfuls of peanuts. Serve on lettuce leaves covered with 
parsley and Decimayonnaise. 

SALSIFY SALAD. 

Take two roots of salsify (oyster plant), scrape, holding 
same under water ; slice thin and salt it thoroughly. Let 
stand in salt for half an hour. Shake thoroughly for a few 
minutes ; drain off the salt water. Throw the slices through 
cold water two or three times quickly. Take cabbage or 
lettuce ; shred very fine and spread upon platter. Over this 
spread bleached celery, finely cut or split, and on top of 
that put a layer of the above prepared salsify. Sprinkle 
with paprika or a little cayenne pepper. And cover with 
Decimayonnaise. 



CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Peel and cut crosswise into very thin slices four medium- 
sized green cucumbers ; lay into large bowl and mix thor- 
oughly with one teacupful salt. Cover and let stand one 
hour, then wash quickly in two waters to remove salt. Mix 
two tablespoonfuls lemon juice with one cupful thick, sweet 
cream and pour over the sliced cucumbers. The soaking 
of cucumbers in salt for one hour effectually removes the 
poisonous acids which so frequently cause cholera morbus. 
Serve cucumbers on lettuce leaves garnished with cress and 
parsley. 

LETTUCE SALAD, 

Wash and break the leaves from two large lettuce heads. 
Lay in a platter and pour over suitable dressing. Garnish 
with sliced tomatoes and finely-chopped onion tops. 

FRENCH FRUIT SALAD. 

Peel and slice thinly two navel oranges ; add same amount 
of sliced pineapple and three tablespoonfuls finely-chopped 
almonds. Serve with mayonnaise dressing, fruit juices or 
whipped cream. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Slice fine two raw potatoes, one small turnip, a carrot, 
two onions, one cucumber. Add one beet, finely grated, 
three tablespoonfuls of oil, a pinch of celery seeds and the 
juice of two lemons. Mix it well and serve on lettuce leaves 
garnished with plenty of parsley. 

ONION SALAD. 

Slice fine two onions, one small bunch of radishes, one 
turnip, and mix well. Add two tablespoonfuls of finely- 
ground peanuts and a little oil with lime juice. Serve on 
large cabbage leaves sprinkled with celery leaves and pinch 
of savory. 

187 



SOUPS. 

GRAIN-TOMATO SOUP. 

Take two fresh tomatoes, mash them through colander 
and pour the juice gradually into a bowl containing one 
cupful of milk. Pour the whole over a bowl containing 
crushed rice or rolled wheat. 

ONION SOUP. 

Grind fine two onions and press out all the juice. Add 
to it four finely-sliced tomatoes, two tablespoonfuls of finely- 
ground pine nuts, and the beaten white of an egg. Eat with 
any grain. 

MILE SOUP. 

Soak for an hour one cupful of flaked rice in one pint of 
milk, a pinch of salt. When ready for use add a cupful of 
tomato juice and celery salts. Sliced carrots with walnuts, 
served on lettuce with cress, will make an ideal meal. 

GARLIC SOUP. 

Grate one clove of garlic into one pint of sweet milk, add 
two tablespoonfuls of blanched raw peanuts, finely ground. 
Let it all stand for one-half hour or more. Strain it 
through a sieve and pour upon flaked corn. Season with 
a pinch of salt and a dash of cayenne pepper or curry. 



188 



DIETARY IN A NUTSHELL. 

HOW TO EAT AND DRINK. 

The sum and substance of all the science of dietetics is 
this: 

When on a fruit diet, you should blend the sweet fruit 
with a smaller percentage of sub-acid or acid fruit. 

When on a vegetable diet, the earth salts which are sweet 
in taste and flavor must be subdued by the addition of 
vegetable juices of an acid or sub-acid nature. 

When on a nut diet, the nuts must be thoroughly masti- 
cated, and the pulp, absolutely tasteless and gummy, should 
be expelled from the mouth. 

When on a grain diet, the grain must be used raw and 
masticated well, employing the jaws to a great extent, but 
do not swallow more than one-third of the pulp. 

When living on a mixed diet, remember that grain gives 
substance, while the addition of a few nuts occasionally 
or in season adds heat. By using the fruit at one time 
and the vegetable at another, they will furnish the elimina- 
tive tendencies. 

Live on grains and vegetables for a day or more, then 
alternate with fruits for the same period, more or less, in 
accordance to the condition of the organic action. 

If the system is filled with acids it is best to abstain from 
fruits. If laden with salts and minerals, then it is best to 
abstain from vegetables until the system is adjusted to a 
greater degree. 

Never cater to artificial wants. They are mere sugges- 
tions of abnormal conditions that enslave our higher na- 

189 



tures and burden our life energies with unnecessary trouble. 
There is no possibility to overcome these unless we retrace 
our steps and return to nature with a humble spirit and a 
contrite heart. 

Learn how little it is necessary to eat and how much less 
you need to drink, as thereby you will learn the secret of 
the science of right living which is the key that unlocks 
the problem of all questions of life — the question of the 
economy of the Infinite through individual effort. 

Appetite is the result of uncontrolled senses and a disease 
of organic intelligence. 

Stop eating for a time and nature will do the rest. 

Hunger alone, following a good day's work, determines 
perfect digestion of that food which is least inviting to a 
pampered palate but of value to him who knows of its 
filling the bill. 

The greater percentage of liquid or water of fruits and 
vegetables is superior to the water of mineralizing tenden- 
cies for the reason that by virtue of an evolutionary life 
the liquids of vegetation embody the intelligences of su- 
periority, also by experiences in the realm of growth 
which entertain eliminating tendencies the best of waters 
do not possess. 

Nature's process of distilling water can never be equalled 
by scientific innovations, as Nature has a chemical laboratory 
at its command that is guided by unseen hands and di- 
rected by a mind which alone can claim mastership. All 
else is mere imitation, full of error and ignorance. If you 
need liquid pure and undefiled, take fruits or vegetables in 
their natural state and you will learn to glorify him who 
has created and formed it so wisely. 

Whenever overcome by thirst we shall know we do not 
exhale enough and that we inhale too short a current of 
breath to induce oxidizing of the blood, consequently we 
do not eat our food attentively and with discrimination. 
The organism contracts consummative tendencies, creating 
the thirst for liquids, which liquids, when taken, dampen 
the consummation temporarily, but at the same time create 
gases detrimental to organic action. 

uo 



B)' abstaining from condiments, artificial sweets, and 
seasonings, eating only grains, vegetables, fruits and nuts 
as nature furnishes them, we never thirst for water or 
liquid of any form, as breath will fill the bill. 

The truest and noblest effort of man is to outgrow the 
animal and recognize the human ; to conquer all the ten- 
dencies of brute nature. To this end our attention must 
be directed toward the generative action of the nervous 
system at large, whose office is to manifest the operations 
of the mind by inductive and conductive actions into the 
muscular or expressing part of being and carry out the 
desires of our innermost being. To insure such a process 
one must adhere to the simplicity of that life which asks 
by performance of hard labor for "daily bread," even 
though it be "crumbs that fall from the rich man's table," 
and is refreshed by the wine that flows from the "jug filled 
with water." Living thus and working unselfishly, taking 
interest in all things and using judgment in one's selection 
of labor whenever nature demands change, observing as to 
food "each kind in its season" as "each season brings forth 
its kind," we shall answer the purpose of life and may 
safely look into the future before us. 

WORK AND OVERWORK. 

There is such a thing as overwork, which means work 
performed in a position limiting the exercise of the body 
and change of mind. 

We never do too much work where we make a change in 
occupation for the performance of some other duty. 

Whenever you labor and work because of insuring the 
"necessities of life" to sustain body and soul your reward 
for your labors is that of a law expressed by condemnation, 
and your path of life is strewn with bitterness at heart, 
hoping and longing, yet in the end dying in despair. 

Work is Nature's means to exercise the body directed by 
mind to insure satisfaction unto the soul. 

All work of usefulness to the laborer and for the good 
of all is the only means of salvation from the curse of 

141 



ancestral tendencies, and the path that leadeth unto the goal 

of final emancipation. 

It rests the body and mind to frequently change attitude 
in the performance of our labors. 

The digestion and assimilation of foods does not depend 
upon our knowledge of the organs of the body nor upon 
chemical compounds of foods, but the selection of foods as 
nature furnishes them. 



MASTICATION THE KEY TO DIGESTION. 

The mastication of food insures digestion and assimila- 
tion. Thus masticate thoroughly, whether it be solids or 
liquids. 

In masticating our food well the absorbents of the mouth, 
tongue and palate concenter all of the aromatic or spirit 
substances of foods, thereby aiding and increasing the 
insalivation of foods for digestive action. 

What you miss to absorb by virtue of mastication you 
never get after the food reaches the stomach. Food proves 
a vitalizer and energizer only then when absorbed by con- 
tinued and well-directed exercises of the jaws. 

The sense of taste, harmonized and in common with all 
the senses directed by reason, is the guide unto selection, 
mastication, digestion and assimilation of foods which will 
prove of benefit and wholesomeness to the body, mind, soul 
and spirit in general. 

We must be able to taste the food with our mouth and 
retain such taste until the food, by mastication, becomes 
tasteless. It then may be swallowed and left to the stomach 
to draw from it whatever soil substance it may retain for 
metallization. 

It is not the stomach, liver and kidneys that need our 
consideration, but the mouth, which is the feeding station 
of our organism. Masticate your food to such an extent 
that the fluids furthering digestion will form readily and 
assimilation is insured. 

1«9 



FOOD FOR THE MIND. 

If food, as contended by science, gives strength an'd 

vitality, how is it that in times of prosperity and plenty, 
when mankind fairly gorges upon food, more diseased con- 
ditions are brought forth, consequently greater dissatisfac- 
tion, more troubles, and more weakness and laziness are 
apparent than in times of hardship and when food is 
scarce ? 

If it is true that the food we eat builds up our tissues, 
makes our flesh and gives us blood, then if a man subsists 
on a pound of pork a day, thus consuming three-hundred 
and sixty-five pounds of it in a year, retaining the sub- 
stance of the pork in his system, what is he at the end of the 
year — man or hog? 

If man perpetuates his body, consequently his life, by 
subsisting on the animal kingdofn, claiming to gain nourish- 
ment and substance from the same, what does he perpetuate 
and whom does he work, labor, rustle and slave for? 

If it be true that fish make brain, hogs build up nerve, 
beef makes muscle, as scientists contend, then it won't be 
necessary for us to advocate education but rather the feed- 
ing of the faces desirous to reach their hearts' content 
through the stomach. 

If beef builds muscle, why not stuff on it instead of going 
through physical culture and gymnastics, but if the latter 
give muscle, what is the use in eating the beef? 

If hog's flesh gives nerve, why take nerve tonics and 
nervines to unnerve what the pork has built? Which is 
which ? 

Scientists claim a great deal for oysters and clams. They 
are supposed to build brain cells. It would be well for them 
to fill up on clams and prove their brain cell development 
by getting to work and earning an honest living, creating 
commodities of life, or else keep their clams shut. 

On the one hand science tells us of foods building the 
brain, foods for nerves, and foods for muscles ; on the other 
hand they advise exercise for the muscle, nerve and brain. 
If the former does the work of the latter, what do we want 

143 



to exercise for, yet if exercise is to do the work, what do 
we want to eat for? This is a dog-gone of a science. 

Never entrust the noblest of life unto another lest sorrow 
and shame be your reward. This body, as a temple of the 
living God, of which we are the entrusted keeper, must 
never expect others to take our place, as thereby we prove 
traitors to our cause and must suffer due penalty through 
sickness, sin and struggle. 

As soon as we become inclined to use stimulants or condi- 
ments to relish food it is high time to give our digestive 
organs rest from food. 

The prosperity of professionals is a sign of man's degen- 
eracy, a sign of the times foretelling the deterioration of the 
race and a voice of warning unto him who awakens to the 
responsibilities of life with a desire at heart to retrace his 
steps. 

Suggestions of an evil directing nature will reflect upon 
our paths, forming pitfalls for our uncertain steps, break- 
ing our bones and shattering our mind. 

Daintiness and prettiness seldom denote intelligence, 
although intelligence may use either as a means to an end. 
In food for the furtherance of mental and physical attain- 
ments the question is not as to appearance but the value 
it contains in calling out our corresponding intelligence by 
virtue of relation. 

By knowing ourselves and the body which constitutes our 
being we shall appreciate the attributes of nature and ever 
strive to pay tribute unto ourselves by sacrificial oflFerings of 
the best we can find in life. 



144 



MAZDAZNAN 

GrsLin '^ Nut Mill 

Not a Chopper but a real Mill and the only Mill 

Grinds Grain into Fine Flour or Coarse Cereals 
Makes the best Nut Butter. 



Grind 



Your own Grain and Nuts then you 
will be sure of absolutely Pure Foods 
so essential to Good Healthy a Happy 
Disposition and a Peaceful Mind. 

Grinds any Nut into butter; 
Corn, wet or dry; grain, pul- 
•es, rice; cracker dust, bread- 
crumbs, corn meal, oats, raw 
or cooked vegetables, fruits, 
herbs, roots, drugs, spices, 
coffee, vanilla beans and pods, 
wet and oily substances, ice 
for cooling drinks, raisins, figs 
and dates for marmalade, etc. 
To insure wholesome bread, 
particularly our celebrated 

Unfermented Bread 
you should grind your own 
flour to insure digestion. 

Coeoannt) ground into butter, served with tart fruit juices, is an in- 
estimable food for dispeptics and diabetic persons. 

Almond Butter and drinks made from Almond butter furnishes 
nutriment to children and invalids. To be used freely. 

Pine-Not Bntt«r, in nervous and pulmonary troubles, indispensable. 

PricefortheMazdaznan Grain and Nut Mill ^ ^ 
including Mazdaznan Encyclopaedia of % 4*00 
Dietetics and Cook Book, o ver 150 pages 

PBICI OF MILL ONLY $8.50 

Mckzdsizfiati W^oodL S\ipply Co* 

8016-18 Lake Park Avenue, Chicago, III. 




LOOKS ARE DECEIVING 



You may have seen Choppers that look like this 
MAZDAZNAN CHOPPER but you never saw IT 
Indeed, you have not. None-of- those you saw 
can compare with ours. We are thee people 
who carry them and you shall be the people to 
use them. Get one quick if life is precious to 
you, whether you cook your foods or prepare 
them ra,w. You need this very MAZDAZNAN 
CHOPPER to prepare fruits and vegetables 
in an attractive, dainty and palatable style. 



Fine 




Medium 



Coarse (ysrara^^ 

MAZDAZNAN CHOPPERS are now in daily use 

From Greenland's icy mountains, To India's coral strand, 
Where Afric's sunny fountains Roil down their golden sand; 
Ev'n where the spicy breezes Blow soft o'er Ceylon's isle. 
Mankind calls to deliver Our Choppers in a pile. 

Three sizes $1.25, $1.50, $1.75. With each Chopper you 
get three different discs, for fine, medium and coarse grind- 
ing. Most of our people get the MAZDAZNAN CHOPPER 
and the MAZDAZNAN MILL. This makes the kitchen 
complete and the results obtained crown us with success. 
The Mazdaznan Co., 3016 Lake Park Ave., Chicago, 111. 

You never saw the MAZDAZNAN CHOPPER 



LOOKS ARE DECEIVING 



Cbe ^azdaznan jfood Supply Co*, 
3016 lake Iparb Ave«t CbicagOt 1fiU 

Sunshine (^live Oil 

The Oil for Invalids, Convalescents and Fine Table Use 
30c., 50cn $J.(X) and $3.75 

Sunshine 0live 0il 

The Oil for Invalids, Convalescents and Fine Table Use 
30c, 50c, $J.OO and $3.75 



Use Mazdaznan Oils and Foods Only 



Domestic (Dlive 0il 

The Oil for Pies, Cakes, Salads and Cooking in General. 
20c 40c, 75c and $2.50 

Domestic Olive Oil 

The Oil for Pies, Calces, Salads and Cooking in General. 
20c, 40c., 75c and $2^ 



Sbe Mazdaznan jfood Supply Co., 
3016 ftabe Iparb £lve., Chicago, UlU 



Wash with hot water, dry 
wall; amooth off with your 
hands. Now apply our 
BEAUTY CREAM. Rub 
ta ctntly on face, nack, 
arms and hands. Take 
the white of an «gg. beat 
it, and apply over the 
•ameplacesas thecream. 
This will feed the skin. 
In the moniln; wash off 



BEAUTY CREAM 

Cannot be imitated nor duplicated 

Offered $10,000 for this recipe 
Used by Fatima and all the Beau- 
ties of the Orient and Occident 
For sale at Maxdaznan Stores 

OR. HANISH CREAM CO. 
26 Van BuranSt. Chlcaeo. III. 



Before rolngr out always 
apply a llttia craam 

Men will And this cream 
Indespensable after shav- 
ing- Use a little alum 
over it occasionally. 

Price 60c. 



S6e MAZDAZNAN SVPPLrY CO. 
3016 LristkLe Psti-k Ave*« CKIca^o 

We Impert OliYe Oils, Gi«g*r Fruit, Oriental Preservei, BIpe 
OllTes, Sau'dried Teas, Arabian Cured Coffee and Perfumes. 

Australian Oil of Eucalyptus, for the scalp, baths and sores, $1.00, $2.00 
Morocco Olyptol, disinfecting purposes, internal and external .50 
Mexican Oil of Cactii, for the restoration of luxurious hair, $2.00 

"Oil of Gladness," exhantimatic, internal and external, $2.00 

Kcw Colon Syringe, Complete Set with Book of Instructions, $4.00 
Colon Tubes, will fit any Syringe, only tubes on the market, .75 

Mazdaznan Incense and Oriental Incenses; purifying; choice .1$ 

Consecrated Vessels, Vases, Candlesticks, prayer rugs, beads, 25c. up 
Covers and draperies for home altars, cosy corners, S50 down to .25 
Talisman, Charms, Oracles, Scapules, Crystals, down to $2.00 

Face Creams, SalTes, Worm Preparations, Mud Soaps, Medlcatei 
Soaps, Spices, Health Books, Son^ Books, Pieces of Art, Music. 

C6e Ma^^da^jcTkecn Supply Co* 
50I6 LrAk.e Petrk Ave*« Chicago 



Before col"K out always 
appljr a little cream. 

Men will find this cream 
indispensable after shav- 
ing. Use a little alum 
over it occasionally. 

Price 50e. 



BEAUTY CREAM 

Cannot be imitated nor duplicated 

Offered $10,000 for this recipe 
Used by Fatima and all the Beau- 
ties of the Orient and Occident 
For sale at Mazdaznan stores 

DR. HANISH CREAM CO. 
Z6 Van BuranSt. Chicago, Ill- 



Wash with hot water, diy 
well, smooth off with your 
hands. Now apply our 
BEAUTY CREAM. Rufc 
In eently on face, neck, 
arms and hands. Take 
the white of an ezt- b**' 
it, and apply over the 
same places as the crean. 
This will feed the sklB. 
In the morning wash off 



the: SANITAR.IVM 

PVR.E: FOOD stoice: 

and Bakery of 

BENOLD'S DNFERMENTED WHOLE WHEAT BREAD 



Benold's Health Flonr, made from selected wheat, frtihly 
ground every day, on our own mill; contains all the nouriih- 
ing ingredients of the entire kernel, per pound .06 

Unfermented Whole Wheat Bread is made from this flour with- 
out baking powder or other injurious ingredients; recom- 
mended by Dr. Hanish and leading physicians against ane- 
mia, dyspepsia, and constipation, 2>^-pound loaf ,16 

Benold's Ideal Bread is made by a special process of oar own 
which promotes the change of starch into maltoee; this 
bread is very delicious and nourishing and should be used 
In connection with our Unfermented Bread, one-pound loaf, .10 

Benold's Nut- Butter is a pure vegetable product and con- 
tains twice as much nourishment as cow's butter and four 
times at much as meat; it is rich in fat, albumen and nu- 
tritive salts, therefore indispensable toall vegetarians, i>lb .tO 

Benold's Malto-Cero is an excellent combination of different 
cereals and is far superior to all so-called Breakfast foods. 
A most delicious, nourishing meal can be made from 
Malto-Cero by simply wetting with a little warm water. 
l-pound package IS 

Benold's Strength Food is a grand cereal product in which 
the starch is converted into soluble dextrin; it is therefore 
easily assimilable and needs no further preparation. It is 
Tery delicious if eaten with cream or milk, one pound 10 

Benold's Malt Coffee combines the highest degree of nourish- 
ment and palatability which can be embodied in a hygienic 
coffee substitute, one pound, 10 

Randall's Grape Juice is a most healthful and agreeable 
beverage, a strengthening natural tonic and refreshing 
drink at all seasons, quarts 50 cents, pints 26 

Randall's Pomona is a pure and unfermented juice of care- 
fully selected fruit of the finest varieties, a wholesome 
drink, equally as beneficial as Grape Juice, quarts 40c, pints .20 
1.11 Orders for Reform Foods will be Promptly FiUed. 



F"« II. BE^NOLrD, Prop. 

Tel. Black 2494 

413 E. SORTH AYE., near Wells str. CHIca^o, 111* 



















IBcaltb iToods 




















NATURAL FOOD SUPPLY CO. 

Mr. A. Keats and Mrs. M. Keats, Managers. 
26 Van Buren street. Suite 332. Chicago, HI. 




We make 

recognized to be the only HEALTH 
Bread made. Grind our own flour just 
before baking. No soda, yeast or salt 
rise. An absolutely unfermented Bread. 

2.1bs loaf lOe., S-lbs loaf 1 6c. 
The cheapest and best bread on earth 

Pure Cookif\g Oil 

We are sole agents for this pure vege- 
table oil and undersell any dealer. In 
Retail $1.15 per Gallon. 


* 






* 


Wekeep Turkish Hgs, Dates, Jordan 
Almonds, Pine Nuts. Pecans, Peanuts 

Mazdaznan Cooking Oil, per gal. $1.15 
Sunshine Olive Oil, per quart l.oo 
French Almond Oil, per % pint .25 
Whole Wheat Flour, own make, l-lb 05 
Lake, Mud, Eucalyptus Soaps 20, 12, 10 
Hair Restorative, per ]/^ pint .50 
Worm Preparation for young or old .25 
All kinds of medicinal herbs, pkg .05 
Currant, Fruit Cakes and Pies, 5,10, .15 
Arabian Coffee, fresh roasted >^-lb .25 
Wisdom Coffee, per pound, only .13 
Selected Sun-dried Fruits, Olive Pre- 
serves and all the Mazdaznan Fo<»ds. 




Tell us your wants 
Wc Import some 


J. Will send list. All goods gruarantee( 
of the goods direct; buy and sell cheap. 


1. 


L 



















































KXfiOtfttOQOtfSXJtf 



INNER 
STUDIES 



KSJRBfBORBOWW 




MiiiX/x/xiiiiXiXi. 



©tnman 



IXtXtXtXfSfXfXf^ 



7|7n[t1tt(R for bis advanced ipopils and lisairity 
in general bv IRev- j^r. <Stoman Zar-Sdiisbt* 
lanisb, the vrartd^renovined instructor in AazdaZ' 
nan ffbilosopby and f>caltb and ffireatb Cnltire- 
Sbe t>oolt consists of Shelve lessons in tbe Science 
of Self'Cure, revealing tbe simple operations of tbe 
Ituman todv. Sbe relation of tbe animal, mental and 
intellectual mind and tbe Evolution of tbe "®ne life 
at a Sime" are clearly defined, and tbe great benefits 
from enjoving sucb perfect life pointed out- Its 
object is not to censure our faults, our ill babits and 
secret vlces-but to belp us to overcome onr weah- 
nesses, and be sbown tbe way to overcome diseases 
of a delicate and sbamef ul nature. Sbe lessons teacb 
means wbereby Sex relations are made a source of 
perpetuity of Voutb and life, overcoming A^atrl- 
moniai discord- Sbe Scientific Sbeorles as to tbe 
^Determination of Sex. v;betber a boy or girl, made 
possible, assuring propagation even in advanced age- 
All tbe wrid important subjects, heretofore coi' 
sidered unobtainable Secrets, sacred to Semple com- 
munities, inonasteries and Orders, are given broad- 
cast. 2[be subjects are too numerous tban spact 
will permit on tbis page. 

f ricB $5.00. 

Send for Descriptire Circulars to 

THE MAZDAZNAN PUB. CO., 

3016 Lake Park Ayenne, Chicago, 111. 



Ibcaltb and Breath Culture 




f 



f 



f ~f 



By Otoman Z&r-Adusht-Hanish 

Complete In Twel?e Lessons. 

FIVE DOLLARS. 

Bound In Elegant CoTer. 

Single Lessons Fifty Cents. 




'T'he Perfect way of Restoring Man's 
* Twelve Senses to Action, assnring 
Health and Brain Power. Defining the 
Mother's Breath and the Individual 
Breath. Secret of a Long and Happy 
Life. Ga-Llama, the centralizing Life- 
Principle, and its Importance in the 
Generation of Electric Fluid through the 
Ganglia of the Nervous System. Loca- 
tion of Soul, Spirit and Mind in the 
Human Body defined. Restoration of 
Memory, Exercise of Will, Self- Reliance, 
Self-Dependency. Diet, Fasting, Exer- 
cise, Magnetism, Electrism, Healing, 
and many subjects of exclusively practi- 
cal nature, too numerous to mention. 
Testimonials from all quarters of the 
globe, recognizing these lessons as the 
simplest, most helpful and rational of 
anything ever given to the world, and 
superior to anything ever taught on 
these lines of Higher Science. Send for 
Descriptive Circulars and be convinced 
that the Mazdaznan Philosophy has many 
imitators but KO ECjUAL. 



MAZDAZNAN PUBLISHING COMPANY. 

3016—3018 Lake Park Avenue, Chicago, 111. 



IBOW 10 jfaSi The book for you to read 9vC* 



Zbz yiDazdaznan 

ie the only official organ of the Mazdaznan 
Movement. Contains leading editorials on the 
burning Questions of the Day, defines Science in 
all its phases, expounds Religion in accordance 
to the Living Word of God as ingraved in the 
Eternal Pages of the Open Book of Nature; 
considers extensively subjects on Health, Food, 
Diet, Fasting and Breathing. Throws Light 
upon Philosophy, ancient and modern; offers 
the only Practical Means for the Solution of 
Economic and Social Questions; lays bare the 
Problem of Life; insures Perfect Life on Earth 
and points out absolute Certainty of Eternity. 

Dr* Oton\ak.i:i Zsir'AdusKt HstnlsK 

If you appreciate originality and the soft and 
gentle breezes of a Master-Mind, revealing in- 
spiring Thought, Word and Deed from out of 
the Realm of the Infinite, you cannot afford 
to let The Mazdaznan pass you by. 

Oive Dollar 8c Year* lOc a. Copy* 

Send names and adresses of ten of your friends 
or acquaintances and we shall send them sample 
copy of The Mazdaznan and other matter. 

THE MAZDAZNAN PUBLISHING COMPANY 
3016-18 Lake Park Avenue, Chicago, III. 



**1F)ow to fast'* TL^?Jo";cfle.d 50c, 



