North End Club 




COOK BOOK 






/ 



TX 

715 




LIBRARY OF CONGRESS, 



COPYRIGHT OFFICE. 



No registration of title of this book 
as a preliminary to copyright protec- 
tion has been found. 

Forwarded to Order Division ^^r^r:^-L:/I..J..^.^J>. 

(Date) ' 

(Apr. 5, ] 901-5,000.) ^^c^ 




IPR 20 1905 



The North End Club 

COOK BOOK 



A COLLECTION OF 

CHOICE AND TESTED RECIPES. 



Compiled and Arranged 

By Ladies of the Club. 



jko K^ ^^'^^r ^^'^'-^^^ 



PUBLISHED BY 

STEVENS, MALONEY & CO. 

Chicago, Illinois, 

1905. 






Copyrighted 1905 

BY 

THE NORTH END CLUB 
Chicago. 



CONTENTS. 



Soups 9-14 

Bread, Biscuit, Waffles and Muffins, Etc 14-20 

Sandwiches 21- 26 

Vegetables 26- 36 

Omelets, Eggs and Cheese 36- 40 

Fish 40-46 

Meats and Poultry 46- 61 

Salads 61-75 

Pastry 75-81 

Puddings 81-91 

Pudding Sauces 91- 93 

Cake 93-109 

Small Cakes, Cookies and Doughnuts 109-114 

Ices and Ice Cream 114-120 

Preserves 120-124 

Pickles .... 124-127 

Candy 127-135 

Things Worth Knowing 135-138 

Chafing Dish 138-143 

Beverages 143-144 



FOREWORD, 

With much pleasure the ladies of The North End Club pre- 
sent this little volume of tested recipes to the public, hoping 
that it may prove a true friend. 

Originality is not claimed for it. Each one has chosen of the 
best from her store with the consciousness of sharing with an- 
other some of the joys of life. 



APPETIZERS. 



''Nor love thy life, nor hate, hut whilst thou livest, live well." 

FRUIT COCKTAIL. 

Peel and cut 2 tart apples into dice, cut 2 oranges into halves 
and scoop out pulp. Cut canned pineapple into small pieces. 
Mix fruit, add juice of 1 lemon, 1 small glass sherry wine and 
sugar to taste. Chill thoroughly, and when ready to serve, put 
in cold sherbet glasses, add 3 Maraschino cherries to each glass, 
and 1 teaspoon Maraschino wine, with 1 teaspoon chopped ice. 

Mrs. Hubbard. 

GRAPE FRUIT. 

Take medium size grape fruit, cut in half, take out pulp and 
juice. Sweeten pulp and juice to taste, put back in half shells, 
add 3 Maraschino cherries and tablespoonful Maraschino wine. 
Serve very cold. Mrs. Fred. Cain. 



SOUPS. 

''Oh, that this too too solid flesh would melt, 
Thazu and resolve itself into a detv!" 

POT AU FEU. 
(Hot Soup, Clear.) 
Two to three quarts soup stock, 2 carrots, 1 onion, one-half 
head of cabbage, 1 leek and some celery. Slice vegetables quite 
fine and let them cook in boiling water until quite soft, then let 
them drip through a strainer. Put vegetables in sauce pan or 
kettle, pour over the necessary quantity of stock and allow to 
cook slowly for 1^ hours. 

GREEN CORN SOUP. 

Cut corn from the cob until you have at least 1 pint (or use 
out of corn season 1 pint canned corn). Cover it with a quart 
of milk, let simmer 20 minutes and add 1 fresh tgg well beaten, 
good piece of butter and salt and pepper to taste. Serve with 
croutons. 



MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Boil 1 pound calf's liver and 2 pounds of veal 2 hours, skim- 
ming well, then strain. Chop the meat fine and add to it 1 
small onion chopped, salt, pepper and ground cloves to taste, 
thickening all with browned flour. Let all boil up together. 
Put a slice of lemon and quarter of hard boiled egg in each dish 
and pour soup over when ready to serve. Mrs. Hubbard. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Two carrots, 2 turnips, 3 onions, 2 heads celery, 5 or 6 pota- 
toes, 1^ pints milk. Prepare all the vegetables and cut them 
up in small pieces, put in saucepan with 2 quarts of water and 
boil for 2 hours. Rub through a sieve, season rather highly, 
put back in the saucepan with the milk and y^ pint of the liquor 
the vegetables were cooked in. Boil 10 minutes and serve. 

BAKED SOUP. 

Cut beef from the neck into small pieces, also vegetables of 
any kind, and put all into a clean jar like a bean pot with one 
pint of peas and rice. Pour in four quarts of water, set in oven 
to bake for two hours, then strain and serve with hot noodles. 

CLAM SOUP. 

One can minced clams (Pioneer brand), 1 quart of milk. 
Add clams to hot milk and bring to a boil. Season highly with 
salt, pepper, a little onion juice, and serve piping hot. 

Mrs. Genevieve Bookwalter. 

DUCHESS SOUP. 

Four cups white stock (water in which fowl or chicken is 
cooked), 2 slices of carrot cut in cubes, 2 slices onion, 2 blades 
mace, ^ cup grated mild cheese, 1-3 cup butter, li cup flour, 
2 cups scalded milk, 1 teaspoon salt, ys teaspoon pepper. Cook 
vegetables 3 minutes in 1^ tablespoons butter, then add stock 
and mace, boil 15 minutes, strain and add milk. Thicken with 
remaining butter and flour cooked together. Add salt and 
pepper, stir in cheese and serve as soon as cheese is melted. 

Mrs. L. G. Stiles. 

10 



ST. GERMAIN SOUP. 

Three cups white stock, 1 can Marrowfat peas, 1 cup cold 
water, ^ onion, bit of bay leaf, sprig of parsley, blade of mace, 
2 teaspoons sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, }i teaspoon pepper, 2 table- 
spoons butter, 2 tablespoons cornstarch, 1 cup milk. Drain and 
rinse peas, reserving 1-3 cup ; put remainder in cold water with 
seasonings and simmer ^ hour; rub through sieve and add 
stock. Thicken with butter and cornstarch cooked together. 
Boil 5 minutes. Add milk and rest of the peas. 

Mrs. L. G. Stiles. 

INSTANTANEOUS SOUP. 

One quart can of tomatoes, 1 quart can of corn, 1 quart of 
milk, 1 tablespoon of butter, salt. Cook tomatoes and corn to- 
gether about 10 minutes, add the milk, butter and salt, and allow 
to simmer 10 minutes, then strain through a sieve. 

Mrs. N. B. Lewis. 

WHITE SOUP. 

Four onions, 4 potatoes, boil, mash and pass through a col- 
ander, add 1 beaten ^gg, 1 quart of hot milk, a little salt and 
butter. Minnie Smith. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Brown 2 tablespoons of flour in 2 of butter. Add 1 can of 
tomatoes cooked and strained, 1 quart of milk. Season highly 
with salt, pepper and a little celery powder. 

Mrs. Genevieve Bookwalter. 

TOMATO BISQUE. 

Melt two tablespoons of butter in a saucepan, add ly^ table- 
spoons of flour and rub together until smooth, add gradually 
1 quart milk and cook until thickened. Cook 1 can tomatoes, ^2 
cup water, slice of onion, salt and sugar to taste, about 5 min- 
utes. When ready to serve strain into cooked milk. 

Mr J. Elisabeth D. Pease. 

TOMATO BISQUE. 

One can tomatoes ; boil with 1 cup of water ; strain ; then 
heat in a double boiler 1 pint of new milk ; put in a piece of 

11 



butter size of an egg. Season with salt and pepper. Take two 
tablespoons cornstarch, dissolve in a little cold milk. Stir into 
the boiling milk. Take a small pinch of soda dissolved with 
boiling water, stir into the tomatoes ; then put the boiling milk 
in. Serve immediately. Put a spoonful of whipped cream on 
top of the cup in which it is to be served. 

BUTTERMILK SOUP. 

Two quarts of buttermilk, 4 tablespoons of rice flour, yi 
package seeded raisins, 1 egg, 2 tablespoons of sugar. Put milk 
on to boil and stir in the raisins while cold, then before boiling 
place flour in milk and continue to stir until it boils. Beat the 
egg and sugar until creamed. Place soup on back of stove and 
stir in egg and sugar just before serving. 

Mrs. C. Anderson. 

NOODLES FOR SOUP. 

To one beaten egg add a little salt and as much flour as it 
will absorb. Roll out very thin on a well floured board, then 
sprinkle with flour and roll up. With a sharp knife cut into 
thin strips and shake them out to dry. Add to soup and boil 
about 20 minutes. 

SAGO SOUP. 

Two quarts of milk, 2 tablespoons of butter, salt and pepper 
to taste, ^ cup of sago. Place all the ingredients in a double 
boiler and boil 1^ hours. 

CHICKEN SOUP WITH EGGS. 

Place the yolks of 6 eggs in the soup tureen, add 3^ cup of 
water and beat thoroughly. Cook 3 quarts of rich chicken 
stock with 1/2 cup of rice. Pour over the eggs,, beating all the 
time, and serve immediately. Emma C. Portman. 

CREAM OF CHICKEN WITH ASPARAGUS. 

Cook two cans of asparagus tips in their own liquor, with 
about 1 pint of water added, for about 5 minutes, then drain 
liquor off and cut the tips off in 1-inch lengths and set aside. 
Replace asparagus in the liquor and cook 20 minutes, then strain 
through a sieve and add ^ teaspoon of baking soda dissolved 

12 



in hot water. Add 2 quarts of rich chicken broth, let boil to- 
gether and add 2 quarts of boiling hot milk. Thicken with 
4 tablespoons of butter and 8 tablespoons of flour. Season witli 
salt and pepper, and add whipped cream. This is particularly 
good for serving at afternoon affairs in bouillon cups with a 
teaspoon of whipped cream added to each cup. 

CREAM OF CHICKEN WITH OYSTERS. 
To the above receipt the addition of oysters gives quite a 
dift'erent taste. Boil 1 quart of oysters in 1 quart of rich milk, 
add 1 tablespoon of butter, strain and add to the above. Served 
in bouillon cups, this is enough for 30 cups. 

CREAM OF SPINACH SOUP.— No. 1. 
Pick, wash and boil enough spinach to measure a pint, when 
cooked, chopped and pounded into a soft paste. Put it into a 
stewpan with 4 ounces of butter, a little grated nutmeg, a tea- 
spoon of salt. Cook and stir it about 10 minutes. Add to this 
two quarts of strong stock; let boil up, then rub it through a 
strainer. Set it over the fire again, and when on the point of 
boiling, mix with it a tablespoon of butter and a teaspoon of 
granulated sugar. When ready to serve whip up a half pint of 
triple cream and place on top in tureen. 

Emma C. Portman. 

CREAM OF SPINACH SOUP.— No. 2. 
Cook % peck of spinach in salted water for 20 minutes, 
then rub through a fine strainer. Boil 2 quarts of milk, and 
thicken with 2 tablespoons of butter and 2 tablespoons of flour, 
rubbed together, season with pepper and salt. Add the spinach 
and let it boil up, and just before serving add ^ pint of 
whipped cream. 

GRAPE SOUP. 
(For Hot Weather.) 
Stem, wash and cook enough Concord grapes to secure 1 
quart of rich grape juice. Add 2 cups of sugar, 2 cups of 
seedless raisins (which have been soaked in water for 2 hours) 
and 4 sticks of cinnamon. Let boil for half an hour, remove 
the sticks of cinnamon and thicken with 4 tablespoons of flour. 
Grape jelly can also be used in place of the grape juice. To 
be served hot or very cold. Emma C. Portman. 

13 



DRIED FRUIT SOUP. 
(Wholesome for Children and Invalids.) 
Three quarts of water, 1 cup of dried currants, 1 cup of 
seedless raisins, 1 cup of prunes, 1 cup applies (dried or fresh), 
1 small cup of sago, 3 or 4 sticks of cinnamon, 1 tablespoon 
New Orleans molasses. Thoroughly wash and partly dry the 
fruit. Put all the ingredients together in a double boiler and 
boil very slowly for three hours. Serve hot or cold. 

CROUTONS FOR SOUP. 

Cut bread into slices 1 inch thick, remove the crust, butter 
the bread and cut into cubes ^ inch square ; brown in oven. 



BREAD. 

''Here is bread which strengthens mens hearts, 
And therefore is called The Staff of Life/' 

MILK BREAD. 

One pint milk scalded and cooled. One tablespoon butter, 
melted in the hot milk, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, I 
small cake yeast, 6 or 7 cups of flour. Measure the milk after 
scalding and put into mixing bowl ; add the butter, sugar and 
salt. When cool, add the yeast, stir in the flour, adding it 
gradually after 5 cups are in, that it may not be too stiff. Use 
just enough to knead it. Knead till smooth and elastic. Cover, 
let it rise till light. Cut it down, divide into parts and shape 
into loaves. Let it rise again in the pans. Bake forty or 
fifty minutes. Lillie I. Lewis. 

WHITE BREAD. 

One pint of scalded milk, cooled, 1 tablespoon of sugar, 1 
tablespoon of salt, flour enough to make batter, beat thoroughly, 
add 1 cake of compressed yeast dissolved in a little water, 1 
tablespoon of lard. Set in warm place to rise until light, then 
add more flour and knead. Set away to rise one hour, then 
knead into loaves, let rise and bake one hour. 

Elinor Erickson. 

14 



BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups sour cream, Ya, cup sugar, i/^ cup molasses, 1 cup 
wheat flour, 2 cups graham flour, 2 even teaspoons soda, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, handful of raisins. Put into pan, let raise one hour, 
then bake. Mrs. G. W. Powell 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

Three-quarters cup white flour, V/z cups graham flour, V/z 
cups cornmeal, ^ cup molasses, 1 tablespoon sugar, if liked 
very sweet, >4 teaspoon salt, 2 large cups sour milk, 1 level 
teaspoon baking soda. You may add >^ cup seeded raisins if 
you choose. Pour into molds and steam from 3 to 4 hours. 

Mrs, Wm. Colly, 

CORN BREAD. 
Two tablespoons sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 eggs, stir to- 
gether and add 1 cup milk, % cup corn meal, 3 teaspoons bak- 
ing powder and white flour to make quite stiff. Bake. 

Mrs. G. W, Powell, 

SOFT CORN BREAD. 
(Southern Style.) 
Two cups of hot grits. Cook until half done. One and one- 
half tablespoonfuls of butter, 3 eggs, 1>4 pints of milk, 1 cup of 
white corn meal, 1 teaspoon ful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of baking 
powder, ^ cup of grits before cooking, will make this amount, 
baked three-quarters of an hour. Miss Jennie A. Drake. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

Two cups of flour, 1 teaspoon of salt, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, ^ cup of lard and butter, add enough milk to hold 
together, handle as little as possible. Bake in very hot oven. 

Nellie F. Caine, 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

(Two Loaves.) 

Four cups of sour buttermilk, 1 heaping teaspoon of soda, 

^ cup of New Orleans molasses, pinch of salt, 2 tablespoons 

of lard, 1 cup of white flour. Enough graham flour to make a 

stiff batter. Bake fifty minutes. 

Mrs. Genevieve Bookwalter, 

IS 



BOSTON STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

One pint sour milk, 2 cups of flour (or 1 cup of flour and 1 
cup of graham), 1 cup corn meal, 1 cup molasses, 1 teaspoon 
soda, salt. Steam in buttered mold three hours, or in the pound 
baking powder cans. Mrs. Seymour Jones. 

INDIAN BREAD. 

Three cups of sour milk, 2 cups of Indian meal, 1 cup of 
graham flour, ^ cup of molasses, 1 tablespoon soda. Steam 
three hours. Mrs. Emma Bissell. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups yellow corn meal, 1^ cups rye meal, 1 cup graham 
flour, 1 cup of molasses, 1 pint sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda and 
salt each. Stir thoroughly, steam five hours and bake one 
hour in a moderately warm oven. Mrs. Arthur N. Coble. 

BLUEBERRY MUFFINS. 

One egg, 1 pint flour, ^ tablespoon melted butter, ^ cup 
sugar, milk enough ta make cake batter, heaping teaspoon 
baking powder, 1 pint blueberries dredged with flour, bake 
in muffin pan. Mrs. Geo. E. Watson. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

One cup white flour, 2 cups cornmeal, piece of lard size of 
walnut. Teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 2 tea- 
spoons sugar, % cup milk. Mrs. J. West. 

WAFFLES. 

One pint milk, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 
teaspoon salt, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon butter. Mrs. Wall. 

WAFFLES. 

One pint flour, 1 pint milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon 
melted butter, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 3 eggs, the whites 
beaten to a froth. Sift the salt and baking powder with the 
flour, add the milk, melted butter and yolks of eggs. Beat hard 
for several minutes, then add the whites of eggs. Bake in hot 
greased wafile iron. Mrs. L. P. Hurter. 

16 



WAFFLES. 

One pint of flour, 1 teaspoon of baking powder, one tea- 
spoon salt sifted together six times. Make a well in middle 
of flour into which pour 1 pint of milk, the beaten yolks of 2 
eggs, a tablespoonful of melted shortening ; mix well, and add 
the stiffened whites of two eggs. Bake on a hot waffle iron. 

HONEY MUFFINS. 

Sift together three cupfuls of flour, three teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, and half a teaspoonful of salt. Work in three 
rounding tablespoonfuls of butter, add 3 beaten eggs, 1 cup of 
iriilk and 1 teacup of strained honey. Bake in muffin or in 
gem pans in a hot oven. Mrs. Nelson A. Pennoyer. 

TRIFLES. 
(A Fine Dish for Early Tea.) 
Beat 2 or 3 eggs a few minutes, add a little salt and enough 
flour to make a stiff paste, teaspoon of butter, nutmeg or 
cinnamon and essence of vanilla, also roll very thin, cut in 
star shape with tin cutter, fry in boiling hot lard. Sprinkle 
sugar over them and eat warm. 

QUEEN FRITTERS. 

Put ^ pint of water and 2 ounces butter in saucepan to boil. 
Put in 4 ounces of flour when boiling. Stir rapidly until it forms 
a ball. Take from fire, beat hard and let cool. Then add 1 
egg not beaten. Beat until thoroughly amalgated ; then add 
another egg and beat again and so on until you have added 4 
eggs. Now give the whole a thorough beating. Have ready a 
kettle of hot fat. Drop a spoonful in and fry a delicate brown. 
I use cottolene. It is much better than lard. Serve with a wine 
sauce. Miss Drake. 

SWEDISH TIMBALES. 
One-half pint flour, 1 gill of milk, generous measure, 2 
^-^ggs, y2 teaspoon salt, i^ teaspoon sugar, 1 tablespoon salad oil. 
Beat eggs until light. Add milk to them. Pour this mixture on 
the flour and beat to a smooth batter. Add other ingredients 
and beat two minutes. Put the timbale iron in kettle of hot 
fat for about two minutes. Fill a cup two-thirds full with the 

17 



batter. When iron is quite hot put into batter, let remain until 
it clings to sides of iron. Then immerse in hot fat and cook 
until a delicate brown. If the iron is not hot enough the batter 
will drop off the iron. Let the batter come within one-half 
inch of top of iron. Fry in cottolene. 

Miss Jennie A. Drake. 

STALE BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Soak 2 cups of stale breadcrumbs for one hour in a quart 
of milk which must be boiling hot. Pour this over the bread 
crumbs. Separate the yolks and whites of 2 eggs and beat till 
light. Into the soaked bread crumbs, add first the beaten yolks, 
then 3 ounces of flour, a tablespoon melted butter, a small tea- 
spoon of salt. Beat these well ; then stir in lightly 2 teaspoons 
of baking powder and the beaten whites. Grease the griddle 
and bake quickly in small thin cakes until a golden brown. 

SWEDISH PANCAKES. 

Three eggs well beaten, 1 heaping teaspoon of sugar, pinch 
of salt, 1 quart of milk. Use enough flour to thicken — say about 
1 pint — beat to a thin batter. It is best to test the batter on the 
griddle since it is hard to give just the amount of flour to be 
used. Mrs. Charles Anderson, Oak Park. 

ROYAL FRITTERS. 

One scant pint of sifted flour, ^ pint of water, 1 gill of but- 
ter, ^ gill of sugar, 1 orange, grated rind and juice, 5 eggs. 
Put water, butter, orange juice on fire in large saucepan. Heat 
mixture slowly to boiling point. When it boils add sugar, then 
flour all at once. Beating all well until the paste leaves the 
sides of kettle, which will be about three minutes. Turn into 
a bowl and set away to cool. Then beat the eggs in one at a 
time. Beat hard for 20 minutes. Drop a spoonful into hot 
cottolene and fry delicate brown. Serve with any kind of 
sauce. Miss Jennie A. Drake. 

CHRISTINE'S MUFFINS. 

One tablespoon of butter, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 eggs, beaten 
separately, add 1 cup milk, 3 teaspoons baking powder, flour to 
make stiff batter. Bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. 

Mrs. Lewis. 

18 



POPOVERS. 

Three eggs, 1 teaspoon butter melted, 2 cups milk, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, 2 cups flour. Beat the eggs separately and add to 
the milk; put in salt and butter. Add flour little by little to 
prevent it being lumpy. Strain through a sieve. Fill well 
greased gem pans half full and bake in quick oven twenty-five 
minutes. Mrs. Henrietta Daniels. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

One cup of sour milk, 1 tablespoon of sugar or molasses, 1 
egg, 1 scant teaspoon of soda, 'jA of salt, enough graham flour 
to make a stiflf batter. Bake twenty minutes. 

CORN-MEAL POPOVERS. 

One pint sweet milk scalded, stir into the hot milk a cup- 
ful of corn-meal, a piece of butter half the size of an egg, a 
little salt, 3 eggs well beaten, and stirred in the last thing. No 
soda. 

SODA BISCUIT. 

One and one-half quarts of flour, 1 pint sour milk, 1 level 
teaspoon of soda, well dissolved in milk, 1 heaping tablespoon 
of lard, scant teaspoon of salt. 

Mrs. Mary F. Pease, SpringHeld, III. 

ARROWROOT BISCUIT. 

Sift together 2 cups of arrowroot and 1 cup of flour. Rub 
two-thirds of a cupful of butter into the flour and stir in grad- 
ually a little very rich milk, sufficient to make a stiff dough. 
Roll out into a thick sheet, beat with rolling-pin, fold, roll out, 
and beat again, and repeat the rolling and beating for five min- 
utes. Roll out the last time about an inch thick, cut with a 
round cutter, brush with egg, sprinkle with sugar and bake 
in a moderate oven with a stronger bottom heat. 

RECIPE FOR GRAHAM GEMS. 

One cup of sweet milk, 1 cup of water, cold. Make a batter 
a little stiffer than griddle cakes. Put in hot buttered gem pans 
and bake in quick oven. 

19 



OATMEAL CRACKERS. 

Two cupfuls of raw oatmeal, 1 cupful of flour, Yz cupful 
of lard, Yz cupful of sugar, 1 tablespoon baking powder, 1 tea- 
spoon of salt. Mix together the oatmeal, flour, salt, sugar, and 
baking powder ; melt the lard and pour a beaten ^g'g into it. 
Then add this to the dry ingredients, using cold water enough 
to make the whole into a stiff paste. Roll the paste to about the 
thickness of a dollar and cut into small cakes, and bake in a 
moderate oven. A. B. 

NEW ORLEANS ROLLS. 

One pint boiling whey poured over Y tablespoonful of 
flour, let it cool, add Y cake compressed yeast, make a stiff 
batter, set it to rise, add after it rises 2 eggs well beaten, 4 
tablespoons lard (melted), 1 teaspoon sugar, a little salt, knead, 
let rise again. When light make into small rolls, lay them 1 
inch apart. Stand two hours before baking, have a hot oven 
and they will bake in ten or fifteen minutes and will be as light 
as feathers. Mrs. N. B. Lczvis. 

GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One quart sour milk, Y2 teaspoon salt, enough flour to make 
a stiff batter, yolks of 3 eggs well beaten, 1 teaspoon soda, 
whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Mrs. C. S. Burdsal. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

Two tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 of butter, yolks of 2 eggs, }i 
of a cup of milk (sweet), one cup of white flour, 1 cup of 
Indian meal, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, whites of 2 eggs. 
Beat whites very light. 

DIXIE BISCUIT. 

Three pints of flour, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons lard, 1 cup milk, 
yeast. Mix at 11 o'clock A. M. Roll, cut at 4 o'clock and cut 
with two sizes of cutters, putting the smaller one on top. Let 
rise until time to get dinner and bake twenty minutes. 

Mrs. Ben. Williams. 

20 



SANDWICHES, 

"Nozv, good digestion wait on appetite" 

NOVEL SANDWICHES. 
Spread thin slices of buttered bread with the following: 
Calve's liver boiled, chopped and run through meat chopper, 
seasoned well with salt and pepper, and mixed with mayonaise 
dressing. Mrs. A. B. Prindle, Batavia. 

JELLY SANDWICHES. 

(From Dainty Things for Luncheon.) 

Cut fresh bread, while yet warm, in as thin slices as possible. 

Butter them evenly, spread over lemon jelly and sprinkle with 

fresh grated cocoanut. Roll each slice separately and tie with 

baby ribbon. 

CHOCOLATE SANDWICHES. 

Slightly butter thin slices of white bread, trim off the crusts 
and cut into the desired shape. Grate the bitter chocolate and 
sweeten it to taste with granulated sugar. Melt a small piece of 
butter and add the chocolate to it. Take from the fire and cool. 
Moisten with a little cream if the filling is too thick to spread be- 
tween the slices of bread. This is one of the sweet sandwiches 
appreciated with a cup of tea. 

JELLY SANDWICHES. 

Three tablespoons crabapple jelly and 3 tablespoons cottage 
cheese. The cottage cheese must be rich and smooth. If too 
stiff, stir in a little cream. Butter white bread, spread half the 
slices with the jelly, and the remainder with the cheese, then 
put the two kinds together. 

NUT GINGER SANDWICHES. 
(From Dainty things for Luncheon.) 
Take 3 long thin slices of bread buttered. Between the 
first and second place a layer of chopped preserved ginger 
mixed with cream and between the second and third slices place 
a layer of chopped English walnuts, then tie up each sandwich 
with baby ribbon. 

21 



BROWN BREAD TRIFLES. 

C^nc-quarter of a teaspoonful of mustard, blended with 2 ta- 
blespoon fuls of lemon juice, and the same of melted butter. Dip 
sprigs of cress in this mixture and lay between thin, round slices 
of buttered Boston brown bread. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

One hard boiled egg, }i lb. grated cheese, >^ teaspoon salt, 
^ teaspoon pepper, ^ teaspoon mustard, ^ teaspoon sugar, 
1 tablespoon melted butter, 1 tablespoon vinegar. Mash the 
yolk of the egg in a bowl, add butter and mix until smooth, 
add salt, sugar, pepper, mustard and cheese, mixing well, then 
add the vinegar, which will make it of a propei thickness. 
Spread slices of buttered white bread with this mixture. 

TOASTED SANDWICHES. 

Cut from a rich cheese some slices about half an inch thick, 
and place them between slices of brown bread and butter, like 
sandwiches. Place them on a plate in the oven, and when the 
bread is toasted serve on a napkin, very hot and very quickly. 

CAVIAR SANDWICHES. 

Two tablespoons caviar, 1 tablespoon salad dressing, y^ tea- 
spoon chopped onions. Mix all with juice of half a lemon and 
spread between slices of white or rye bread. 

CELERY SANDWICHES. 

Chop fine three stalks of celery and add enough salad dress- 
ing to make a thick paste and spread between slices of bread. 
Watercress can be used in the same way for sandwiches. 

BANANA SANDWICHES. 

No. 1. — Slice the bananas thin and evenly. Sprinkle with 
one tablespoon lemon juice. Add a little honey to white cream 
cheese and spread on the bread instead of butter, then place a 
layer of bananas between the slices. 

No. 2. — Slice the banana thin and place between slices of 
buttered bread, with a layer of salad dressing to which has 
been added whipped cream and a few chopped almonds. 

22 



GINGER SANDWICHES. 

Preserved ginger chopped fine and mixed with whipped 
cream and put between layers of buttered bread. 

ORANGE SANDWICHES. 

Orange marmalade chopped fine and mixed with whipped 
cream and put between layers of buttered bread. 

CURRANT SANDWICHES. 

Spiced currants (preserved) mixed with cream cheese with 
enough sweet cream added to make a paste, spread between 
layers of buttered bread. 

MAPLE SUGAR SANDWICHES. 

Cut and butter slices of white bread, scrape maple sugar and 
spread thickly on the bread. Cut with a maple leaf cutter and 
serve with hot coffee. 

GUAVA AND CHEESE SANDWICHES. 
Butter twelve slices of bread, spread six of them with guava 
jelly and the other six with cream cheese. Put a guava and a 
cream cheese together. 

CREAM CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 

Take >4 cup of finely chopped chicken and pound it fine. Dis- 
solve a teaspoon of gelatin in 2 tablespoons cold water. Whip 
i^ pint cream. Add the liquid gelatin to the chicken, season 
with salt, stir until it begins to thicken, add the whipped cream 
and when it gets very cold spread on slices of buttered bread. 

LOBSTER SANDWICHES. 

One cup of chopped lobster meat mixed with two table- 
spoons of mayonnaise. Put this between buttered slices with 
a lettuce leaf on each side. 

OLIVE SANDWICHES. 
Spread thin slices of bread with olives chopped and mixed 
with salad dressing. 

23 



CUCUMBER SANDWICHES. 

Slice the cucumbers thin and let stand in cold salt water for 
half an hour, then drain. Dip slices in salad dressing, or vine- 
gar, and put between slices of buttered bread. 

NUT AND CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

One half cup of walnuts chopped fine and mixed with 
enough cream cheese and sweet cream to form a paste, then 
spread on the bread. 

NUT SANDWICHES. 

Mix half cup of chopped nuts with 1 tablespoon of mayon- 
naise and spread on bread and butter, whipped cream may be 
used instead of the mayonnaise. 

CABBAGE SANDWICHES. 

Shredded cabbage mixed with whipped cream and chopped 
nuts, placed between slices of buttered bread. Salt the cabbage. 

EGG SANDWICHES. 

No. 1. — Chop hard boiled eggs fine, with a cucumber pickle, 
pepper, salt and a little mustard. Rub smooth with a silver 
spoon and put between slices of buttered bread. 

No. 2. — Cut hard boiled eggs in thin slices, lay between but- 
tered bread with mayonnaise dressing. 

CLUB SANDWICHES. 

Lay between thin slices of buttered toast, a slice of cooked 
bacon, then a slice of cold chicken, and lastly a lettuce leaf with 
mayonnaise dressing. Serve hot. 

BAR-LE-DUC SANDWICHES. 

Mix cream cheese with enough sweet cream to soften, then 
add Bar le Due enough to make a paste, or to flavor the 
cheese, then spread between slices of thin bread not buttered. 

SHRIMP SANDWICHES. 

Chop 1 cup of shrimp meat fine, mix with mayonnaise dress- 
ing and put between slices of buttered bread with two lettuce 
leaves. 

24 



LETTUCE SANDWICHES. 

Take shredded leaf lettuce and mix with mayonnaise or 
French dressing and put between buttered bread. 

RUSSIAN SANDWICHES. 

Spread a layer of Neuchatel cheese on slices of buttered 
bread, then a layer of chopped olives mixed with mayonnaise 
dressing, and cover this with another slice of buttered bread. 
Cut in fancy shapes. 

BOSTON SANDWICHES. 

Spread slices of Boston brown bread with cream or Neu- 
chatel cheese, then add a layer of chopped stuffed olives mixed 
with salad dressing, then another layer of the bread. A lettuce 
leaf in each sandwich is a great addition. 

Mrs. John Vance Cheney. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

One hard boiled ^gg, 1 teaspoon made mustard, 1 tablespoon 
vinegar, ^ lb. American cheese, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 1 
saltspoon salt, 2 drops Tobasco sauce. Cut the cheese into small 
pieces, add the other things gradually, beating all the time until 
you have a creamy paste. Then spread on thin slices of bread. 

TOrS CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

One bottle stuffed olives, (35c. size), %. lb. pecan nuts, 2 
doz. sweet pickles. Chop each ingredient fine, then mix with 
mayonnaise dressing into a smooth paste. This quantity is 
enough for three loave of baker's bread. They are delicious. 

Lucia C. Beebe. 

A GOOD FILLING FOR SANDWICHES. 

One block of cream cheese, 4 tablespoons sweet cream, the 
juice of 3 lemons, work the cream into the cheese and then add 
the lemon juice and work all until it can be spread easily. Cut 
the bread about one-half an inch thfck, spread three slices, 
place one on top of the other, then cut down like cake. 

Cecelia Donovan, 

25 



LEMON TOAST. 

Two large or 3 small eggs, 1 large cup of milk, 5^ cup gran- 
ulated sugar, 2 tablespoons powdered sugar, 1 small lemon, 1 
cup boiling water, 5 or 6 slices of baker's bread. Beat yolks of 
eggs, add milk and soak bread in this mixture. Fry in butter 
to a delicate brown. Beat whites stiff with 2 tablespoons of 
powdered sugar, add a small pinch of baking powder to pre- 
vent merangue from falling and heap irregularly on toast. 
Place in the oven or under broiler of gas stove to brown slightly. 
Make a syrup of boiling water, lemon juice and granulated 
sugar and pour carefully around toast. Garnish with spoonfuls 
of bright jelly — crab apple or quince. 

Mrs. N. E. Johnson, 

FRENCH TOAST. 

Beat one ^gg^ and put in a pinch of salt, add 1 cup milk, and 
flour enough to make a thin batter. Have bread cut in slices and 
cut sHces in half. Dip bread in this batter and fry in kettle of 
lard. Lard must be smoking in the centre. Brown nicely, 
turning slices in the lard and serve hot. Ida S. Downs. 



VEGETABLES, 

"Oh muckle is the powerful grace that lies in herbs." 

SWEET POTATOES AND NUTS. 

Mix 2 cups of chopped, hot sweet potatoes and 1 cup of 
chopped nut meats, stir in half a cup of melted butter and a 
beaten egg, season with half teaspoon of salt, press into a square 
mold and when cold cut into slices, dip in egg and bread crumbs 
and fry. 

SARATOGA CHIPS. 

Peel and slice the potatoes very thin. Let lay in very cold 
water to which has been added a piece of alum the size of a 
pea. (This size to a quart of water.) Let stand in the water 
for three or four hours. Heat 3 lbs. of lard in large kettle, drain 

26 



and dry a large handful of the potatoes at a time, put into the 
lard until golden brown. Take out with a wire spoon, put on 
newspaper to drain off the lard, and when cold sprinkle with 
salt. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Cut medium sized ripe tomatoes in halves. Melt 3 table- 
spoons of butter in a pan and when quite hot, put the tomatoes 
in with the cut side down. Cover and cook for about ten min- 
utes. Turn them over, season with salt and pepper (add 
sugar if liked) and cook until tender. Remove to a plat- 
ter, add 2 tablespoons of flour to the gravy, when well mixed, 
add 1 pint of milk. When well blended, pour over tomatoes, 
and serve. Mrs. Cloyes. 

STUFFED CELERY. 

Choose rather large yet tender stalks of celery and scrape 
them clean as for ordinary uses. The "stuffing" is made of 
grated cheese to which has been added a half teaspoon of lemon 
juice for each teaspoon of cheese, add a dash of paprika to the 
mixture and then fill it in the hollow space which is left when 
two stalks of celery are placed together, leave the freshest 
and crispest leaves at the top of the stalks and tie with ribbon. 

POTATO SOUFFLE. 

Boil 4 good sized mealy potatoes, put through a sieve, scald 
3/ teacup sweet milk and tablespoon butter. Season the potato 
with salt and pepper, and add the milk and butter, beating until 
it is creamy. Add one at a time, the yolks of 4 eggs, beating 
thoroughly. Put a pinch of salt in the whites of the eggs and 
beat to a stiff froth. Have a well buttered baking dish ready. 
Add the whites of the eggs to the other mixture at the last mo- 
ment before putting in the oven. Bake twenty minutes in a 
quick oven, serve at once in the dish in which it was baked. 
This should be served with meats that have gravies. 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Boil 6 medium sized potatoes. Remove the skins, mash 
fine, add 1 large tablespoon of butter, salt and pepper. Form 
into croquettes, dip in egg and then in cracker crumbs and fry 
in hot lard. 

27 



FRIED POTATO BALLS. 

Mix a tablespoon of melted butter with 2 cups cold mashed 
potatoes, beat until light, add beaten yolk of an egg, season with 
salt and paprika. Last add beaten white of egg. Dip hands in 
flour, form mixture into balls, roll balls in flour and fry in 
hot lard. Serve hot on dish garnished with parsley. 

POTATO PUFF. 

Place 2 cups mashed potatoes into a sauce pan, add the yolks 
of 2 eggs, 3 tablespoons cream, 1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon 
salt, stir constantly over the fire until potatoes are light and hot. 
Remove from stove, add beaten whites of 2 eggs. Put into a 
buttered baking dish and bake in oven until a nice brown. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in cubes to make one quart, add a 
teaspoonful of salt, and one-third teaspoonful of pepper. Put 
3 tablespoonfuls butter into a frying pan, add 1 tablespoonful 
mixed onion and 1 of minced parsley, cook 3 minutes, stirring 
constantly, add the potatoes and stir with a fork very carefully 
until brown. 

BAKED CORN. 

Cut kernels off twelve ears of tender uncooked corn, add 
yolks and whites beaten separately of 4 eggs, 1 teaspoon of 
sugar, same of flour, mixed with a tablespoonful of butter, salt 
and pepper and 1 pint of milk. Bake about three-quarters of 
an hour. 

BAKED POTATO BALLS. 
Prepare mashed potatoes, beat until very light, adding 
cream, butter and salt to taste ; then press into tea cups to mold 
them. Dip each into beaten egg, place in a shallow butered 
pan and bake in oven to a golden brown. 

SCALLOPED OYSTER PLANT. 

Boil the oyster plant until perfectly tender, then take out of 
water and rub through a colander. Add butter, pepper and salt 
and milk, mix well. Put in a baking dish and cover the top 
with bread crumbs and small bits of butter, set in the oven and 
bake a delicate brown. Mrs. Lewis. 

28 



TURNIPS IN WHITE SAUCE. 

Wash and cut turnips into half or three-quarter slices ; pare 
and cut each slice into strips and then into cubes. Boil in boiling 
salted water until tender. Drain and pour white sauce over 
them. Mrs. N. B. Lewis. 

GREEN TOMATOES FRIED. 

Take medium sized green tomatoes and slice rather thin, 
fry a delicate brown in plenty of butter. When cooked remove 
to a hot dish and into the hot butter left in the pan put 1 cup 
thick cream, thicken with 1 dessert spoon flour. Season with 
salt and white pepper and pour over tomatoes. 

Mrs. E. H. Reed. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. 

Put cooked cauliflower broken in pieces (or whole) in pan 
or dish in which you intend to serve. Pour cream sauce over 
it, sprinkle a little grated cheese over that and baste with but- 
ter, bake in oven to brown and serve. 

EGG PLANT FRIED. 

Peel and slice an egg plant, roll in flour, dip in beaten eggs, 
seasoned with salt and pepper, roll afterwards in cracker 
crumbs and fry brown in hot butter. Serve at once. 

BAKED RICE WITH TOMATOES. 

Boil one cup of rice till tender, when done mix with a can of 
tomatoes. Add a little onion chopped very fine and a small 
piece of butter, season with pepper and salt. Put in a well- 
buttered dish lined with bread crumbs and bake a golden 
brown. 

ESCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Cut one quart cold boiled potatoes in very thin slices, season 
with salt and pepper. Butter a dish, cover the bottom with a 
layer of cream sauce and a layer of potatoes and sprinkle with 
chopped parsley. Next spread a layer of sauce and of potatoes 
until the dish is filled. Have the cream sauce for the last 
layer and over this sprinkle bread crumbs mixed with little 
bits of butter. Bake twenty minutes. Mrs. C. H. Betts. 

29 



PARSNIP CROQUETTES. 

Six large parsnips, 2 eggs, a little flour and salt. Par boil 
the parsnips and let them get thoroughly cold. Peel and grate 
them. Beat the eggs until very light, mix thoroughly with the 
grated parsnips adding sufficient flour to bind the mixture to- 
gether. Flour the hands well, form the mixture into balls. 
Have lard hot to nearly cover the balls. Fry quickly to a good 
brown on both sides. Serve very hot. 

TOMATOES WITH MACARONI. 

Put a layer of tomatoes fresh or canned in a buttered baking 
dish, season with salt, pepper and bits of butter. Cover with 
a layer of coked macaroni, and repeat till the dish is as full as 
desired. Moisten cracker crumbs with melted butter. Spread 
over the top, sprinkle grated cheese over all and bake until 
brown. 

RIPE TOMATOES FRIED. 

Cut in halves nice ripe tomatoes, place them in a baking dish 
skin side down. Place small pieces of butter over the tomatoes, 
dust with salt and pepper, stand in the oven ten minutes ; then 
place over the fire and fry slowly in butter. Do not turn, but 
when done, lift with cake turner and place on a hot platter. 
Add to the butter left in pan a tablespoon of flour, mix until 
smooth. Add a cup of cream, stir continually till smooth, sea- 
son with salt and pepper. Pour over tomatoes and serve. 

BAKED BELL PEPPERS. 

One doz. green bell peppers, Iqt. chopped schrimps, 1 tea- 
cup grated bread, 1 teaspoon mixed mustard, ^4 teaspoon pep- 
per, Ys teaspoon celery seed, a slight grating of nutmeg, 1 
egg, y^ teaspoon salt. Cut the stem end of the pepper, remove 
the seeds and rind, and let the peppers stand in salted water 
for half an hour. Two tablespoons of butter, beaten to a cream, 
add the seasoning, then the beaten egg, then the bread crumbs, 
then the scrimps (or any fish like lobster or salmon) stuflf the 
pepper pods, and bake twenty minutes in hot oven. This same 
preparation made into croquettes and cooked in lard is nice 
without the peppers. Mrs. N. W. Hamilton. 

30 



MOTHER'S SUCCOTASH. 

Six fine ears of corn, cut the corn from the cob. Put the 
cobs into three quarts of water and let them boil slowly for 
twenty minutes, remove the cobs and put into the water the cut 
corn. One pint green lima beans, Y\ lb. salt pork cut into pieces. 
Add to this salt, pepper and 1 tablespoon sugar. Let this sim- 
mer one hour or till the water has evaporated so that the mix- 
ture is the consistency you like. The southerners like it thin 
and serve it like a soup. Most people let it cook down and 
serve as a vegetable, just before serving the addition of a little 
cream is an improvement. Lucia C. Beehe. 

OYSTER PLANT. 
(Mock Fried Oysters.) 
Take 2 bunches of oyster plant, scrape and cut into small 
pieces, boil in salted water till tender, drain and mash, when 
cold squeeze through a potato ricer. Beat the strained vege- 
table with a fork till light, season with salt and pepper, add 2 
well beaten eggs, 2 tablespoons of cream, 2 tablespoons of 
melted butter, 3 tablespoons flour, into which >4 teaspoon of 
baking powder has been mixed. Heat your griddle as for pan 
cakes and drop the mixture so as to make a cake the size of 
fried oyster, try or pierce with fork to see they are done in 
center. These are delicious with any kind of roast meats. 

Lucia C. Beehe. 

CAULIFLOWER CHEESE. • 

Boil a cauliflower and press through a sieve. Add 1 heaping 
tablespoon of grated Parmeasan cheese, 2 of tomatoes, 1 of but- 
ter. Season well. Cover with bread crumbs and brown in the 
oven. Mrs. Genevieve Bookwalter. 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH SARDINES. 

Take 6 large, firm tomatoes and scoop out the inside. Let 
some of the juice drain off from the pulp, and mix the latter 
with half a cup of cracker or very fine bread crumbs, and a cup 
of sardines, from which all the skin and bones have been re- 
moved, a tablespoon of melted butter, a quarter of a pint of 
chopped olives, salt, and a little cayenne pepper. Stuff the to- 
matoes, cover with the piece removed, put in one pan, cover 

31 



with another, and cook half an hour in a moderately hot oven. 
Uncover and brown. Tomatoes stuffed with sardines and 
chopped olives, mixed with a very thick mayonnaise, make a 
very good salad. Add a little chopped celery or parsley. 

TOMATO TAVASL 
(An Armenian Recipe.) 
Across the top of smooth, round tomatoes make 3 incisions 
with a sharp knife, and into each gap put a tablespoonful of 
raw, lean meat of any kind that has been chopped and well 
seasoned. Arrange tomatoes in rows in a square baking dish 
so they will not fall apart in baking. Put pieces of butter on 
top of each tomato, add a little water. Bake one hour, and 
serve hot. 

STUFFED ONION. 

Scoop out the center of the onions, leaving a shell about 
half an inch thick and make a force meat using sausage as basis. 
To this add some of the heart of the onion, a little parsley, 
sweet pepper, salt bread crumbs and a little water to bind it to- 
gether. After filling the onion shell lay a lump of butter on top, 
place in a pan with a little water and bake in a hot oven until 
tender. Mrs. O. IV. Chandler. 

SPINACH. 

Cook spinach until tender, put in a colander and drain, 
pour cold water over, squeeze out water, put in chopping bowl 
add salt, chop well. Chop one-half an onion fine and cook in 
1 tablespoon melted butter ; into this put spinach thin with a lit- 
tle beef tea, pepper and season to taste. Chop the whites and 
yolks of hard boiled eggs separately and use as a garnish. 

Mrs. August Heuer. ■ 

STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS. 

Choose large peppers, split lengthwise into halves, remove 
seeds, mix bread crumbs and minced ham or tender roast beef 
well seasoned with butter, salt and pepper, fill the peppers. 
Moisten them with tomato juice and bake in a hot oven until 
brown. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley over them just be- 
fore they go to the table. 

32 



TOMATO DOLMASI. 

(An Armenian Recipe.) 
Take ripe tomatoes, scoop out some of the center leaving a 
good thick shell, fill center with some cucumber cut up fine, 
boiled rice mixed with chopped raw meat well seasoned. Place 
in dish, bake slowly for half an hour. 

CUCUMBER DOLMASI. 

Pare cucumbers, cut off one end, make cucumber hollow by 
removing seeds. Fill them half full with rice which has been 
mixed with chopped raw meat seasoned. Put in baking dish, 
putting two open ends opposite so rice will not fall- out in bak- 
ing; cover with water, bake slowly one hour. 

CHICAGO BAKED BEANS. 

In the evening pour over 1 qt. navy beans water enough to 
cover them and let soak for twelve hours. In the morning 
place them in boiling pot with water enough to cover them 
and 1 tablespoon of soda, simmer until you can easily see that 
outer covering of the bean curls up when you breathe upon a 
spoonful in trying. Then strain off soda water and place them 
in clear water and boil slowly, simmer is better, until they are 
tender, but not in pieces. Now take your baking dish, place in 
a large layer of beans, then season them with salt and a little 
granulated sugar. Another layer of beans with the seasoning, 
and so on until they are nearly out, then place in the centre 1 
lb. of lean salt pork. Finish placing the layers of beans and the 
seasoning. Pour over the beans until they are entirely covered 
the liquor they boiled in last, and use it in replenishing as they 
dry out, but aim to have them nice and dry and whole when 
ready to serve. Bake in a slow oven five or six hours. If you 
are fond of tomatoes, they are delicious, after being stewed and 
seasoned to taste, to mix through the beans just before serving. 
Mrs. Jessie Stroud Peck, Ravensivood. 

MEAT AND POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Put in a stew-pan an ounce of butter, a slice of onion minced 
fine, when this simmers add a level tablespoon of sifted flour; 
stir until smooth and frothy, then add half cup of milk, salt and 

33 



pepper ; let boil, stirring it all the while — now a cup of any cold 
meat chopped fine and a cup of hot mashed potato, mix thor- 
oughly and put on a plate to cool. Shape in cones or roll, dip 
in beaten egg and cracker crumbs, and fry a nice brown in boil- 
ing fat, drain on brown paper, serve immediately. Cold rice or 
hominy may be used in place of potato, a cup of cold chicken 
or fish minced fine in place of the meat. 

Mrs. Alonzo Daniels. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

One dozen and a half large ears of fresh, green corn, 2 
eggs, a heaping teaspoon of salt, ^4 teaspoon of pepper and 4 
teaspoons of milk. Remove the husks and silk from the com, 
score each row of kernels down the center, from end to end, 
and scrape out the contents with the back of the knife, by hold- 
ing the ear nearly upright and the blade of the knife almost 
flat against it; this prevents spattering, and for the same pur- 
pose it is as well to do all the scraping on a large platter. Scrape 
at least twice around the cob, and be sure to remove all the milk 
and yellow substance, but none of the skin. Next beat the eggs 
thoroughly at one end of the platter, then beat them into the 
corn, add the salt, pepper and milk, and after all is thoroughly 
beaten together, fry by the spoonful on a cake griddle that is 
very hot and has been well greased with cooking butter. By 
the time the last spoonful is laid on, the first spoonful should be 
ready to turn. They should be a rich, light brown, and will all 
be of the same shape if the batter is allowed to run on the 
griddle from the point of the spoon. They should be served as 
soon as cooked — only a griddleful at a time. 

STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS. 

Cut the stem ends from as many peppers as there are people 
to be served. Remove the insides with a sharp knife, scald for 
five minutes and drain. Cold chopped meat of any kind, or 
chopped fresh beef may be used for filling. Mix 2 tablespoons 
nieat with 1 tablespoon cracker crumbs, season with chopped 
fresh tomato, a little onion juice, salt and pepper to taste. 
Moisten with a little stock or milk. Fill the peppers, put a bit 
of butter on top, tie on covers, and put in pan with enough 
water to keep from burning. Cover for fifteen minutes, then 
cook fifteen minutes longer. Serve immediately. 

34 



STUFFED BAKED TOMATOES. 

Take the required amount of medium sized tomatoes, fine 
and ripe, cut off the blossom end and remove inside with a 
spoon. Chop this with bread crumbs, a sHce of onion, salt and 
pepper to taste and replace in tomato shell, place a dot of but- 
ter on each and bake for twenty minutes. Serve individually 
on a lettuce leaf. Mrs. Seymour Jones. 

ESCALLOPED CHESTNUTS. 

Hull 1 pint of chestnuts ; place in bowl and pour boiling 
water on them to take off skins. Boil until soft, mash fine, add 
lump of butter the size of an egg, one-half tablespoon celery 
chopped very fine, 1 hard boiled egg chopped fine, 1 beaten raw 
egg, saltspoon salt, dash of pepper. Mix thoroughly. Have 
clean and dry clam shells, butter the insides, fill them to the 
edges. Make a hole in the middle in which to place a large 
oyster. Bake until a light yellow. Serve in shell with lemon. 
Deep oyster shells or scallop shells will do. 

Mrs. N. A. Pcnnoyer. 

MACARONI. 

Take ^ lb. macaroni and stew in boiling salted water until 
soft and tender. Butter a baking dish, drain the macaroni, and 
put in a layer of macaroni, sprinkle with grated cheese, add 
more macaroni, etc., until all is used. Finish with layer of 
cheese, and put bits of butter on top. Pour over 5^ cup milk. 
Bake covered ^ hour, then take cover off and brown. 

Mrs. E. J. Henry. 

MOCK OYSTERS. 

Boil oyster plant roots, after scraping in salted water, until 
tender. Mash fine, adding a large spoonful of butter, salt and 
pepper to taste, add beaten yolk of an egg, flour to make stiff 
as for fritters. Beat thoroughly, drop' by the spoonful into 
hot lard and fry a delicate brown. By making them moist 
enough to handle, shaping them like oysters and rolling them 
in salted cracker dust before frying the oyster delusion is 
well nigh complete. 

35 



POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

Make a white sauce, using 1 tablespoon of butter, 1 tablespoon 
of flour, j^ of a teaspoon of salt, 1 saltspoon of white pepper, 
and 1 cup of milk. Cut cold boiled potatoes into thick slices, or, 
what is better, ^-inch cubes. Butter a baking dish, put in it 
a layer of sauce, then one of the potatoes, previously lightly> 
seasoning with salt and pepper. Continue until all are in, using 
about 2 cups of potato. Add 1 teaspoon of melted butter to 1 
cup of dried and sifted bread crumbs ; spread this over the pota- 
toes, and place in a quick oven for twenty minutes, or until 
well browned. For a change a little onion juice, chopped pars- 
ley or grated cheese may be added to the sauce. 

CORN BLOCKS. 

A delicious dish to serve as a vegetable as you would po- 
tato. One pint of swxet milk, 6 tablespoons white corn meal, 
salted. Put all in a double boiler and cook one-half hour, turn 
in a bread pan and mould into a loaf. When cold turn out and 
cut into blocks 2 inches square and cook in boiling fat like 
French fried potatoes or doughnuts. 

Mrs. H. G. Daniels. 



EGGS AND CHEESE 

''There's a best way of doing everything; even if it be but 
to cook an egg." 

OMELET. 

Beat yolks of 2 eggs till light, add 2 tablespoonfuls of milk, 
1 saltspoon salt and % saltspoon pepper. Beat the whites of 
the eggs stiff. Cut and fold them lightly into the yolks. Have 
a smooth omelet pan. When hot put in a tablespoonful of but- 
ter, let butter run all over pan and when bubbling turn in 
the omelet quickly, cook carefully until slightly browned under- 
neath. Set in oven on upper grate to dry the top. When 
the whole center is dry, run a knife around the edge, 
then under the half nearest the handle and fold over to 

36 



the right. The remnants of ham cut fine and added im- 
prove the omelet. To have a foam omelet add only half of the 
beaten whites to the yolks, and when nearly cooked spread the 
remainder over the top ; let it heat through ; fold over and the 
white will burst out round the edge like a border of foam. 

BAKED OMELET. 

One slice of baker's bread, 1 inch thick, remove crust; ^ 
pint of milk, 6 eggs, 1 tablespoon of butter, not melted. Pepper 
and salt to taste. Put milk on bread and let stand until soft. 
Then add butter to it and press through colander. Beat yolks 
until light and add lastly the whites which have been beaten 
stiff. Bake 20 minutes and serve immediately. Always cover 
with a napkin to keep it from falling when taking to table. 

Miss J. A. Drake. 

OMELETTE SOUFFLE. 

Beat six eggs separately, put with the yolks 4 scant spoons 
of white sugar, then add the whites, put tablespoon butter on the 
omelette pan and cook slowly till it forms a crust on the bottom, 
then set in the top of a hot oven and brown well ; cut through 
the center and roll over once and put a few hot cherries or 
cooked fruit of some kind, strawberries or bananas in between 
and serve very hot. 

BAKED OR SHIRRED EGGS. 

Small stone china dish, or egg shirrers, holding one or 
two eggs for each person are convenient for this method of 
serving eggs, or use a common platter placed over hot water, 
or bake in shells in a moderate oven ten minutes, first pricking 
several holes with a large pin in the large end of the egg to 
keep the air within from bursting the shell as it expands. No. 
1 — Break each egg into a cup, being careful not to break the 
yolk and put the eggs on a hot buttered dish suitable for serv- 
ing. Put a little salt on each egg, bake until the white is firm, 
add a little butter and serve at once. Garnish each egg with 
thin strips of breakfast bacon. 

CHEESE OMELET. 

Beat whites and yolks separately of 6 eggs, add 1 cup of 
milk. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in omelet pan. Add 

37 



to eggs and milk ^ cup bread crumbs and turn into pan. 
When ready to fold over add y^. cup grated cheese, leave a 
moment to heat and serve on a very hot platter. Don't forget 
that a good omelet should be long, thick in the middle and 
soft inside. 

OMELETTE AUX ROGNONS. 
(Omelet with Kidneys — Francois Tanty.) 
Mutton kidneys, 4 to 5 ; vinegar, j/< tablespoonful ; butter, 
1 tablespoonful ; stock, ^ glassful ; flour, 1 tablespoontu. ; 
parsley — a little. Time, 20 minutes. Skin and slice the 
kidneys, let them cook awhile in a saucepan with 1 table- 
spoonful butter, a little salt and pepper. Sprinkle over 1 table- 
spoonful flour, add Yi tablesponful vinegar, ^ glassful 
stock, the hashed parsley, let cook a few minutes. Pour 
into a plain omelet just before turning. 

DEVILED EGGS. 

Boil about 8 eggs 1 hour, cut each ^^^ in 2 pieces, put all 
the yolks in a dish and add a little salt and pepper, 1 teaspoon 
of melted butter or olive oil, juice of 1 lemon, and with the 
blade of a knife work it into a paste ; fill each piece of ^^'g 
and put the halves together, and serve on lettuce leaves. 

ROOKWOOD CROQUETTES. 

Hard boil 6 eggs and chop them very fine. Rub 1 table- 
spoonful of butter and 1 of flour together in a saucepan, add 
1 cup of milk and stir over the fire until creamy, then add a 
dash of pepper and one-half teaspoonful of salt. Chop the 
whites of the eggs very fine and add them to the creamy sauce. 
The mixture is then set away on a buttered plate. When 
cold mold 2 tablespoonfuls of the creamy mixture into the 
form of a hollow cylinder and put the yolk, mixed with 1 
tablespoonful of parsley, into the hollow center, and fold the 
white mixture all over it, ball shape. Dip in %g'g and bread 
crumbs and fry in hot fat, using frying basket. Serve hot. 
Delicious. Miss Mary I. Jennings. 

EGGS SPANISH. 

Three tablespoonfuls canned tomatoes, an onion cut fine, 
a little parsley chopped fine, salt and pepper a little butter, let 

38 



simmer. Frv ec^gs in another pan, basting them with hot 
butter. Place eggs on a platter and pour the tomatoes over. 
Serve at once. 

CHEESE BALLS. 
To one Neuchatel cheese add 1 teaspoon grated onion, ^^ 
teaspoon lemon juice, 3 tablespoons of cream. Mix well and 
make into balls an inch through, roll in salted peanuts which 
have been pounded fine and mix with a little chopped parsley. 
This makes about fifteen. Genevieve L. Hull 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 
Put 2 tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan, add 1 heap- 
ing tablespoonful of flour ; stir until smooth ; add half a cup 
of milk half a teaspoonful of salt and a little paprika. Cook 
two minutes, add the yolks of 3 tgg^. well beaten and 1 cup 
of grated cheese. Set away to cool. When cold add the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Turn into a buttered 
dish and bake 25 minutes. Serve immediately or it will fall. 
Serve currant jelly with this dish. Lillie I. Lewis. 

CHEESE BALLS. 
To 1>^ cups grated stale cheese take the white of l.egg 
well beaten, mix well ; set on ice to cool. Shape into balls, 
roll in ^gg and cracker and brown in hot lard. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

One-half cup butter, 1^ cups flour, >^ teaspoon paprika, 
y2 teaspoon dry mustard, Yi teaspoon salt, >^ teaspoon baking 
powder Mix as you would pie crust. Add enough water to 
roll out on board. Roll very thin. Sprinkle with % lb. grated 
American cheese. Fold over once, roll again. Then cut into 
straws and bake in quick oven. Do not let them get too 
brown. Mrs. F. E. Hubbard. 

CANAPES. 
Cut bread into slices % inch thick, 4 inches long and 2 
inches wide. Spread with butter and sprinkle with salt and 
paprika. Cover the tops with grated cheese and bake until 
cheese is softened. Serve at once. 

39 



CHEESE DREAMS. 

Cut thin slices of bread, spread with cheese as for cheese 
sandwiches. Fry in butter in a chafing dish a Hght brown 
on both sides. 

CHEESE RAMAKINS. 

Four ozs. grated cheese, 2 ozs. butter, 2 ozs. grated bread, 
1 large cup milk, one-third teaspoon dry mustard, one-third 
salt, dash red pepper, 3 eggs. Grate the bread and boil it 
soft in the milk, add butter, mustard, salt, pepper, cheese and 
yolks of eggs. Beat the whites of eggs to a froth and add 
last. Bake in buttered ramakins 10 minutes and serve imme- 
diately. Mrs. Alice Winters. 

GOLDEN BUCK. 
Make a good Welsh rarebit, lay a poached tgg on it. 



FISH. 

"I zviped azvay the weeds and foam, 
I fetched my sea-born treasures home." 

PLANKED WHITE FISH WITH POTATO ROSES. 

Split open a firm white fish and remove the backbone (the 
head and tail should be cut off, with the fins, when it is 
cleaned). Spread with soft butter and dredge with flour, 
salt and pepper and lemon juice. Have the fish plank heated 
in a pan in the oven, place fish on it and bake about 15 minutes. 
Then remove and surround with the potatoes and return to 
a hot oven. From 20 to 30 minutes will be sufficient for the 
entire cooking, according to the thickness of the fish. 

POTATO ROSES. Prepare mashed potatoes as usual, 
but with less cream or milk, and place in a pastry bag. Force 
through in the shape of roses (using a star tube) all around 
the fish, brush lightly with the yolk of an egg mixed with a 
few spoonfuls of cream and brown quickly in the oven. 
Garnish with lemon and parsley and serve on the plank. In 

40 



ordering a fish plank it is well to have the dimensions in pro- 
portion to the platter on which it will be used, and if no 
large baking pan be on hand, the lower part of the gas broiler 
answers the purpose admirably. Mrs. E. C. Noe. 

OYSTER LOAF. 

Take 1 loaf of bread, crusted all round. Cut off top so 
that top may be used for cover. Scoop out the soft part of 
the loaf and put shell in oven to become hot. Dip about two 
dozen oysters in ^gg, then in cracker crumbs and fry brown. 
Salt and pepper to taste. Fry or broil two dozen mushrooms 
and fill hot loaf with oysters and mushrooms in layers. Cut 
over top olives or pickles in slices. Put cover on loaf and 
serve. Must be very hot. Mrs. David Macquarrie. 

FISH TURBOT. 

One and one-half pounds of white fish ; steam until tender ; 
remove skin and bones; cut in pieces about an inch square. 
Make a white sauce: One tablespoon of butter, one table- 
spoon of flour. Heat the butter until it bubbles, put in the 
flour and stir until smooth. Have ready a pint of milk in 
which a small bunch of parsley and some thyme have been 
heated to boiling; remove the thyme and parsley; add 2 
well beaten eggs, salt. When cold put a layer of fish, then 
sauce until all is used. Cover with bread crumbs and bake 
until a nice brown. Very good and a nice way to use up fish 
left from yesterday's dinner. Mrs. Henry S. Harris. 

CODFISH. 

Shred in small bits a piece of cod fish. Cover with cold 
water and let it come to a boil ; pour off this water carefully, 
then add a pint of milk, a small piece of butter, a little pepper, 
a tablespoon of flour rubbed into the butter, 2 well beaten 
eggs. Stir into the milk to thicken, cook a few minutes. Cut 
into small pieces a quarter of a pound of salt pork, fry until 
crisp (not burned) or until there is a nice gravy. Slice two 
or three hard boiled eggs, garnish dish with the eggs, serve 
a tablespoon of the gravy on each portion of fish. Very nice 
with plain boiled potatoes. Mrs. Henry S. Harris. 

41 



SALMON LOAF. 

One can of salmon, 4 eggs, 4 tablespoons of butter, y^ 
cup of bread crumbs, a little minced parsley. To prepare: 
Drain the liquor from the salmon, beat the eggs separately, 
melt the butter (not too hot), put the crumbs in the eggs, 
season with salt, pepper and parsley, put the butter in the 
fish, add the rest ; put in buttered mold and steam 1 hour. 

Sauce for Same. — One cup of milk heated to boiling, 1 
tablespoon of corn starch and 1 tablespoon of butter rubbed 
together. Then add the liquor of the salmon and the milk; 
add slowly 1 well beaten ^gg and cook until smooth. This 
is a nice fish course, or can be eaten cold without sauce. 

Mrs. Henry S. Harris. 

CREAMED HADDIE. 

Put a small haddie in a frying pan, skin side up ; cover 
with cold water, simmer one-half hour, then separate into 
flakes. Melt 1 tablespoonful of butter, blend in 1 heaping 
tablespoon of flour, add gradually 1 pint of hot milk, add the 
fish, heat thoroughly. Serve with baked potatoes. 

DEVILED CLAMS. 

Wash 2 dozen clams and put into a dripping pan in a hot 
oven long enough for shells to open. Take out the clam, 
separate and chop fine, add about a pint of bread crumbs, 
then the clam juice and a little pepper; butter the shells and 
place the mixture in, on the top of each place a small bit of 
butter and a few^ crumbs. Bake 10 minutes. Mrs. Lezvis. 

OYSTER CROQUETTES. 
One pint raw oysters, ^ pint cooked veal, 1 tablespoonful 
softened butter, 3 tablespoonfuls cracker crumbs, yolks of 2 
eggs. Chop oysters and veal quite fine and soak the cracker 
crumbs in the oyster liquor; mix all together; spread dry 
cracker crumbs on moulding board and after shaping a 
spoonful of mixture into the desired shape roll in crumbs and 
fry in hot lard. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Select good sized oysters for pickling, cook them in their 
own liquor until the edges curl, then remove and drain them. 

42 



Scald enough vinegar and oyster liquor in equal parts to cover 
them. Place a layer of the cooked oysters in a stone jar and 
sprinkle over them a few whole cloves, pepper corns, allspice 
and a little mace, then more oysters and spices until all are 
used. Pour on the hot vinegar, cover and set in a cool place 
for a day or two. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

Two cups raw salt fish, 2 pints potatoes, 2 teaspoonfuls 
butter, 1 Ggg well beaten, y^ saltspoonful pepper, more salt 
if needed. Wash the fish, pick in pieces and free from bones. 
Pare potatoes and cut in quarters. Put potatoes and fish into 
boiling water and boil until potatoes are soft. Be careful 
not to let them boil long enough to become soggy. Drain 
ofif all the water. Mash and beat the fish and potatoes till 
very light. Add the butter and pepper, and when slightly 
cooled add the tgg and more salt if needed. Shape into balls, 
slip them ofif into a basket and fry in smoking hot lard. These 
fish balls must be mixed while potatoes and fish are hot. 

Mrs. I. J. Bryan. 

JELLIED FISH. 

Take a large white fish (about 4 pounds), jA package of 
gelatine, bay leaves and whole white peppers. Boil the fish 
in salted water until done. Remove skin and bones carefully, 
preserving the shape of the fish ; place on the fish platter with 
head and tail in place, and sprinkle with some whole peppers 
and bay leaves. Soak the gelatine 1 hour, pour over it 1 
quart of the hot fish stock, pour this over the fish and set 
on ice. When ready to serve loosen the edges of the gelatine 
and place under and around the fish crisp lettuce leaves. Pour 
over the whole a sauce Tartare. Mrs. L. C. Tallmadge. 

PAN OYSTERS. 

Cut some stale bread, taking oflf all the crust. Toast, 
butter, place them in a pan (patty pans are best) and moisten 
with 3 or 4 teaspoonfuls of oyster liquor; place on the toast 
a layer of oysters, sprinkle with pepper, and put a small 
piece of butter on top of each; place in the oven, covering 

43 



tightly. They will cook in 7 or 8 minutes if oven is hot — or 
cook till the beards are ruffled; remove the cover, sprinkle 
lightly with salt, replace and cook over 1 minute longer. If 
they are cooked in patty pans, place the pans in a baking 
pan while cooking. Mrs. I. Jennings Bryan. 

BOILED FRESH CODFISH. 

Take a piece of fresh codfish, weighing about 2 pounds, 
and tie in a cloth that has been sprinkled with flour. Boil 
slowly in water enough to cover to which has been added 
two tablespoon fuls vinegar and 1 tablesponful of salt about 
35 minutes. 

Sauce. — One tablespoonful of butter, blended with 1 table- 
sponful of flour. Add 1 pint of milk, a little at a time, stirring 
constantly till smooth. Salt to taste. When ready to serve 
add 2 tablespoonfuls chopped parsley. Serve at once. Water 
must be boiling when fish is put in. Mrs. Macquarrie. 

SALMON SOUFFLE. 

Drain liquor from 1 can salmon, 2 tablespoonfuls melted 
butter, scant ^ cup white bread crumbs, beaten whites of 4 
eggs. Mix together thoroughly. Steam one hour ; serve with 
cream sauce. Mrs. Fred F. Cain. 

PICKLED PERCH. 

Take out back fins and skin, sprinkle with salt, steam until 
tender, lay in a stone jar. Boil vinegar enough to cover fish 
with whole allspice and black peppers ; pour hot on fish. Set 
in a cool place. Mrs. Wm. Judson. 

LOBSTER FARCE. 

Put 1 cup cream in double boiler and heat. Melt 2 large 
tablespoons butter in saucepan, add dessert spoon flour, a 
little cayenne pepper, mace and salt. Stir into hot cream and 
let it boil up. Mix this with 3 pounds of lobster picked to 
pieces. Fill lobster shells with the mixture, cover with bread 
crumbs, bits of butter, and brown in oven. Serve hot. 

Mrs. E. J. Henry. 

44 



SALMON LOAF. 

Two cans of salmon (remove all the bones and skin and 
drain off the juice for sauce), add to the fish 8 eggs, 1 cup 
bread crumbs, 8 tablespoons nielted butter. Steam one hour. 

Sauce. — Two cups of milk, 1 tablespoon cornstarch, 1 tea- 
spoon catsup and juice from the fish. Let boil and add the 
beaten yolk of 1 tgg after taking it off the stove. 

Mrs. John Vance Cheney. 

OYSTER LOAF. 

Take a loaf of bread, cut off the crust, dig out the center, 
brush it over with melted butter, and put in the oven to brown. 
Fill with creamed oysters, cover the top with fried bread 
crumbs, put in the oven for a minute and then serve. 

Mrs. John Vance Cheney. 

MUSHROOM STUFFING FOR FISH. 

Fry 1 tablespoon chopped onion in 2 tablespoons butter for 
3 minutes. Add ^ cup chopped fresh mushrooms, ^ table- 
spoon flour, y^ cup chicken stock, }^ teaspoon chopped parsley, 
salt, pepper and lemon juice to taste. Mix thoroughly and 
add stale bread crumbs to make right consistency. 

Mary Foster Snider. 

OYSTER COCKTAILS. 

For each person allow the strained juice of ^ lemon, ^ 
teaspoon vinegar, 3 drops tobasco sauce, y^ teaspoon freshly 
grated horseradish, 1 teaspoon tomato catsup and 5 medium 
sized oysters. Mrs. F. E. Hubbard. 

CREAMED WHITEFISH. 

Boil a 2-pound whitefish in salted water until tender. 
When it is quite cold, cut the meat into srnall pieces. Make 
a cream sauce of 1 pint milk, 2 tablespoons butter, 2 table- 
spoons corn starch, wet with a little of the milk. Season to 
taste with salt and pepper. Butter a baking dish, put in the 
fish and cream sauce in alternate layers. Sprinkle bread 
crumbs over the top with little bits of butter, and bake in hot 
oven until well browned. Mrs. Hubbard. 

45 



BAKED SCALLOPS. 

Wash the scallops in cold water, drain and wipe dry; then 
fry a delicate brown in butter, shaking or stirring to prevent 
them from burning. Put a layer of bread crumbs into a well 
buttered baking dish, then a layer of scallops; season with 
salt and pepper. Alternate until dish is nearly full. Pour 
over a white sauce, cover with butter and crumbs. Bake 20 
minutes. L. I. Lewis. 

OYSTER ROLL WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Remove the inside of a loaf of stale bread by cutting off 
the top crust. Be careful that the crust fits again the same 
place. Leave a wall an inch thick inside, brush the inside and 
outside of the loaf with butter and place in the oven to brown. 
Do not burn. Cook the oysters gently as for stew, removing 
when they swell. Fill the roll or loaf and keep hot. Prepare 
the following sauce : 

Sauce. — Cut in pieces 1 quart of mushrooms and stew in 
oyster liquor with butter, a bay leaf and a little salt. Simmer 
gently for 30 minutes, add 1 pint cream and the yolks of 2 
eggs well beaten ; stir constantly till it comes to the boiling 
point. Lay your oyster roll on a hot platter and pour over it 
the mushroom sauce and garnish with flecks of chopped 
parsley. Mrs. N. A. Pennoyer. 



MEATS. 

''Some hac meat and canna eat, 
And some zvad eat that want it. 

But zue hae meat and we ean eat. 
And so the Lord be thank it." 

KOEINGSBERGER MEAT DUMPLINGS. 

Three-fourths of chopped beef to % chopped pork, 3/< cup 
bread crumbs, 1 little onion, salt and pepper, mix with 1 egg. 
Form into good sized dumplings, boil in salted water with y^ 
cup vinegar, 1 onion and 1 bay leaf for 15 minutes. Thicken 

46 



some of the water in which the dumplings were boiled, add 
a little beef extract and 1 teaspoonfiil of capers. Have 1 or 2 
well beaten e^:gs on a platter, stir in the sauce and add the 
dumplings. ^ ' ^^^''- Gamer. 

AUSTRIAN SOUR POT ROAST AND DUMPLING. 

Brown a pot roast in a cup of butter on top of stove, the 
roast having previously been steeped in vinegar and salt 
water, onion and bay leaves over night. Add 3 or 4 cups of 
the liquor to the roast, add 1 bunch of carrots and stew slowly 
three hours. Serve with small flour dumplings. 

Mrs. Gamer. 

PORK TENDERLOIN IN MILK. 

Two pork tenderloins larded and browned in a small 
amount of butter. Then add Yz cup milk and keep adding 
until they have cooked about three-quarters of _ an hour. 
Remove the tenderloins, thicken the gravy with a little flour. 
Pour over the tenderloins and serve very hot. 

Miss Emma Behnke. 

BROILED SAUSAGE. 

Take oflf the skin from the link sausages and flatten links 
to half their thickness, or take sausage meat. Put into a 
double wire broiler and broil carefully. Baste once with 
butter and serve hot. 

MOCK QUAIL. 

One good sized tenderloin will make three. Cut the 
tenderloin across in three pieces. Then cut it in the middle 
lengthwise, thus dividing each piece in two ; pound each good. 
Prepare together for each quail 1 prune, a few raisins and 
currants, 3 or 4 blanched almonds and piece of apple. Roll 
this between 2 pieces of tenderloin, wind strips of bacon around 
until it is completely covered and pin together with toothpicks. 
Put 2 toothpicks covered with raisins in each roll to represent 
legs. When several of these are served together on a platter 
with the legs sticking up they look like quail. 

47 



FILLET DE BOEUF. 

Order the fillet larded, about 5 pounds. Cut 1 onion, 1 
carrot, }i oi a. turnip, in slices, and put in bottom of a pan. 
Salt the meat, pour a little fat over it, lay it on the vegetables 
and cook in hot oven about 30 minutes. Serve with mush- 
room sauce. 

Mushroom Sauce. — To one cup of brown sauce, add half 
a can of mushrooms, whole or quartered, and simmer five 
minutes. Serves eight persons. Mrs. Lezvis. 

BEEF OLIVES. 

Three pounds round steak cut into small pieces and sliced 
thin. Pound well and season with pepper and salt. Then cut 
small pieces of bacon and onions and roll inside of the indi- 
vidual olives of meat. Brown the olives of meat and place 
in kettle with 1 cup of water. Boil two hours and a half. 

Mrs. C. Andeison. 

MEAT PIE. 

Cut cold cooked meat into thin slices or half inch cubes. 
Remove all gristle and fat, except the crisped outside fat. Put 
in a baking dish and cover with meat gravy arid season to 
taste. Spread a crust of mashed potatoes over the meat, brush 
with beaten ^gg, sprinkle with cracker crumbs and bake till 
brown, 20 or 30 minutes, 

MEAT BALLS. 

One pound of chopped round steak, 6 slices of white bread 
soaked in milk, 2 e^ggs beaten separately, salt pepper and 
onion to taste. Mix well with the meat the yolks, salt and 
pepper, grated onion and the bread after pressing out the 
milk. Then fold in the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiflf 
froth. Pat lightly into four or five balls. Brown butter size 
of an Qgg. Put in the meat balls and toss about lightly. Then 
add a cup of boiling water and cover. Turn the balls fre- 
quently and let them simmer from one-half to three-quarters 
of an hour. Add more water if necessary. 

Mrs, W, Howard Robinson. 

48 



HOW TO PREPARE HAMBURG STEAK. 

Chop 1 onion fine and boil in 1 cup of water with a clove. 
Thicken with flour, add 1 or 2 eggs and season. Mix thor- 
oughly with 2 pounds of chopped beef and salt pork. 

Mrs. C. F. Anderson. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

One and one-fourth cups flour, salt to taste, milk to make 
a thin batter, adding lastly 3 eggs beaten very light. Put in 
pan, around a roast of beef 30 minutes before serving. 

Mrs. Alice Winters. 

SWEET BREADS. 

Sweet breads are found in calves and lambs, but the former 
are the better. They spoil quickly and should be put in cold 
water as soon as they are brought from the market and allowed 
to stand for an hour. Then drain and put into salted boiling 
water and cook very slowly for about 20 minutes. Drain and 
put into cold water, and they will then be white and firm and 
ready for many dainty dishes. This preparation must precede 
ail methods of cooking sweet breads. 

SWEET BREADS CREAMED. 

Cut the prepared sweet breads into small pieces till you 
have 1 cupful. Add 1 cupful of mushrooms. Make a cream 
sauce of 1 tablespoonful of butter into which 1 tablespoonful 
of flour has been stirred and 1 cup of milk. Flavor with salt, 
paprika and a little lemon juice. Add the sweet breads and 
mushrooms. Allow to cook about 8 minutes, then add the 
yolks of 2 eggs well beaten. Stir quickly and serve at once. 

Mrs. Macquarne. 

SWEET BREADS FRIED. 
After preparing as above, split in halves, dip in egg, then 
in cracker crumbs and fry in butter. Season with salt and 
i:)epper, garnish with parsley and serve with green peas. 

Mrs. Macquarrie. 

SWEET BREAD CROQUETTES. 

Make a cream sauce of 1 cup of milk, 1 tablespoonful 
butter and 2 of flour. It should be almost too thick to stir. 

A9 



Have ready 1 cup of- sweet breads chopped, the beaten yolks 
of 2 eggs, a few drops of onion juice, salt and paprika to 
taste, and about ^ cup of chopped mushrooms. Add these 
to the cream sauce. Stir well and set aside to become firm 
and cold. Shape into cutlets, dip in Qgg and then in cracker 
crumbs and cook brown in boiling fat. 

Mrs. Macquarrie. 

CREAMED SWEET BREADS. 

Drop a pair of sweet breads into cold water, changing the 
water as often as discolored. When they are quite white put 
in saucepan with a slice of onion, 1 small blade of mace, 2 
sprigs of parsley and 1 saltspoon salt. Cover with boiling 
water and cook 20 minutes. Put into cold water for ^ hour, 
dry on towel, and remove all fat and sinews. Cut into dice 
with a silver fork to prevent discoloration. Make a cream 
sauce of 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 saltspoon 
salt and ^ saltspoon white pepper. Mix over the fire and add 
1 cup of white stock, or the broth the sweet breads were 
cooked in, stir until smooth and thick, add ^ cup rich cream 
and cook until thick and smooth. Add the sweet breads, 
cover and put over hot* water for 10 minutes. This can be 
served in ramakins or patty cases. 

COLLARED CALF'S HEAD WITH BRAINS. 
(Cold Dish.) 
Boil Yz calf's head for 2 hours ; take it up then and remove 
the bones and put them back into the broth ; add 1 pint sage 
leaves and an onion, let simmer till you have cut up the meat, 
and add some small pieces of ham and the tongue chopped 
with pepper and salt to taste, let cook 2 hours, then add the 
brains and 1 egg well beaten the last thing, and pour into a 
cold mould and add plenty of the liquor well boiled down. 

BRAISED TONGUE WITH ASPIC JELLY FOR 
LUNCH. 

Boil the tongue till tender, then place in a stew pan with 2 
good sized onions, 1 head of celery, 4 cloves, salt and pepper 
to taste; cover with the liquor it Was boiled in, add a glass 

50 



of brandy, tablespoon sugar, pinch of mace, bunch of thyme 

and of parsley. Let this all simmer 2 hours, take out the 
tons^^ue, strain the liquor, add to this 1 box of Cox's gelatine 
that has been soaked in 1 glass of cold water ; heat it, pour 
all over the tongue, place the meat in a square pan so that 
when it comes out cold it will serve nicely on a square plate. 
Serve cold, garnished with water cress. 

STUFFED LEG OF LAMB. 

^. — Leg of lamb with bone removed. B — One cup dry 
br^^d crumbs, 1 cup chopped mushrooms, salt, pepper, parsley 
to '"xste. Moisten with sherry wine. Place B in A, bake in 
ov^-n 20 minutes to the pound, basting frequently. Serve with 
brown gravy. Mrs. Wall. 

LEG OF LAMB SERVED AS GAME. 

Steep leg of lamb in a quart of sour cream and bouquet of 
marjoran, sage and thyme and onion over night. Then roast 
20 minutes to the pound, adding 1 cup of the sour cream and 
a small quantity of the same herbs. Mrs. Gamer. 

BOILED YLAM. 

Simmer for 4 hours in water enough to cover, to which 
has been added ^ cup of vinegar. When cooked remove skin, 
rub in some brown sugar, then sprinkle with bread crumbs. 
Then add more sugar and ^ glass of sherry wine and bake 
one hour. Mrs. Noe. 

STEWED RABBITS. 

Brown in butter two rabbits cut in pieces. Add 2 cups 
boiling water, 1 cup of cream, ^4 cup of vinegar and capers. 
Stew two hours. Mrs. Gamer. 

TONGUE IN JELLY. 

Boil and skin a good sized beef tongue. When cold put in 
a mould which has been wet in cold water, placing slices of 
cold, hard boiled eggs and cold boiled beets at the bottom of 
the mould. Cover with aspic jelly made as follows: One and 



one-half pints of clear stock, ^ box of gelatine, white of 1 
egg, y2 cup of cold water, 2 cloves, slice of onion, 1 stalk of 
celery. Soak gelatine in cold water, add other ingredients, 
let it come to a boil, strain through a napkin. Beat the white 
of the egg with 1 spoonful of cold stock and add. 

Mrs. H. S. Harris. 

BAKED HAM. 

Take a medium sized ham and boil slowly for about 4 
hours. Take the skin off, and rub in all the brown sugar it 
will hold. Stick in a number of cloves, season with paprika 
and sprinkle thickly with bread crumbs. Put in oven, basting 
with the water the ham was boiled in, and bake about 35 
minutes or until well browned. Mrs. J. F. Upham. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON OR LAMB. 

Wipe', remove the fat and put into well salted boiling 
water. Skim and simmer 12 minutes for each pound of meat. 
One-quarter of a cup of rice is sometimes boiled with the 
mutton, or the meat may be tied in a cloth to keep it from 
discoloring. Serve with a thick caper sauce poured over the 
mutton. Garnish with parsley. Serve with currant jelly. 

LAMB SAUCE. 

One pint of claret wine, 1 glass jelly, grape or currant ; 1 
pint bottle tomato catsup, 1 cup of butter, 1 teaspoonful of red 
pepper, 1 teaspoonful of allspice. Add claret just before serv- 
ing. Do not let it boil, but use it hot. Very fine. Use less 
catsup if you prefer. Miss Drake. 

CURRANT JELLY FOR MUTTON. 

Make 1 cup of brown sauce, strain it and add a cup of 
melted currant jelly. Heat till the jelly is well mixed and 
serve very hot. 

BROWN MUSHROOM SAUCE FOR BEEF. 

To 1 cup of brown sauce, add half a can of mushrooms, 
whole or quartered, and simmer 5 minutes. 

52 



MUTTON CUTLETS BREADED. 

Trim the cutlets and season with salt and pepper. Dip in 
crumbs beaten egg, and crumb again and fry in smoking hot 
fat, 4 to 6 minutes if rare, 8 or 10 if well done. Arrange in 
the center of a hot dish and pour tomato sauce around them, 
or place them around a mound of mashed potato or spinach. 
Trim the bones with a paper ruffle or arrange them with the 
bones end up, stacked like bayonets, and garnish with stuffed 
tomatoes. 

BEEF LOAF. 

Three pounds round steak, 1 pork tenderloin, % pound 
beef suet, 1 onion, salt, pepper, 1 tablespoon flour, i/^ teaspoon 
allspice, ^ teaspoon cloves, 1 quart milk. Chop the round 
steak very fine with old-fashioned chopping knife. Chop 
pork tenderloin and suet and then mix together well and let 
stand over night. Grate the onion and add to the meat, then 
add the spices. When well mixed stir in the milk, a little at 
a time, till the entire quart has been added, using care to pre- 
vent the mixture being lumpy. Pour into a buttered tin and 
bake 1 hour, placing the tin in a pan of boiling water in hot 
oven. This serves about 12 people. Miss Emma Behnke. 

SCRAPPLE. 

Boil hog's head in enough water to cover until meat is ready 
to fall from bones. Remove head from liquor, strain liquor and 
set aside to cool. Pick meat from bones, adding some of the 
fat and chop fine. Remove fat from liquor, add meat, thicken 
with corn meal and season to taste. When cold cut in slices 
and fry. Can be prepared with beef in the same manner. 

Mrs. Martin. 

SPICED BEEF. 

Two pounds of chopped beef, mix well with 4 beaten eggs, 
4 large soda crackers, roll fine, pepper, salt and thyme to taste. 
Mold into two loaves, cover with strips of bacon, bake three 
quarters of an hour until tender. Slice cold or can be eaten hot 
with tomato sauce. F. E. Harris. 

S3 



CASSEROLE OF RICE AND MEAT. 

Boil 1 cup of rice till tender. Chop very fine half pound of 
any cold meat. Season highly with half a teaspoonful of salt, 
half a saltspoonful pepper, 1 saltspoonful celery salt, 1 teaspoon- 
ful of finely chopped onion, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 
Add 1 beaten egg, 2 tablespoonfuls of fine cracker crumbs and 
moisten with hot water or stock enough to pack easily. Butter 
a small mould, line bottom and sides half an inch deep with the 
rice, pack in the meat, cover closely with rice and steam forty- 
five minutes. Loosen it around the edge of the mould, turn it 
out upon a platter and pour tomato sauce over it. This is very 
good. Mrs. Bryan. 

HAMBURG STEAK IN CASSEROLE. 

Chop 1 pound of Hamburg steak very fine. Add 1 onion 
chopped fine and form into flat cake. Put 1 teaspoonful butter in 
casserole, allow to become hot. Add I young carrot grated, 
y2 cup of tomatoes, salt and pepper to taste. Place the meat 
in this sauce and put in about a dozen small onions. Bake 
one-half hour in quick oven. When ready to serve add about 2 
tablespoonfuls of sherry wine. Serve from the casserole. 

Mrs. Macquarrie. 

STEAK A LA STANLEY. 

(A.) Extra thick porterhouse or club steak. (B.) Four 
bananas cut in two lengthwise and fried in olive oil. (C.) 
One-half cup cream sauce, 3 tablespoonfuls of horseradish (as 
dry as possible) mix with whipped cream. Broil (A) until 
medium rare, place (B) on top in rows, cover with (C) and 
serve garnished with parsley. Mrs. Wall. 

GOULASH. 

Two pounds of beef from the round, wipe with damp 
cloth. Cut in pieces an inch long, put in a spoonful of butter 
in a sauce pan. Add a small grated onion, cook until straw color. 
Add a quarter of a teaspoonful of paprika, mix well. Stir in 
3 level teaspoonfuls of flour, brown a good color. Add 2 cups 
of good stock, stir until it boils. Cover and cook until meat 
and potatoes are done. Cold meat and potatoes may be used 
up in this way. F. E. Harris. 

54 



SAUER BRATEN. 
Take a fillet of beef, about 5 lbs., put in a deep bowl, and 
cover with vinegar seasoned with 1 sliced onion, 1 bay leaf, 
5 or 6 cloves, salt and about 8 whole peppers. Cover and 
let stand three days. Then take >^ vinegar, add 3 cups water, 
put in baking pan with meat and cook in oven about 3 hours. 
Thicken gravy with browned flour, put in 1 can button mush- 
rooms, let boil up once. Serve meat on platter with gravy and 
mushrooms around it. Mrs. L. P. Hurter. 

BOILED DINNER. 
Wash a piece of corn beef weighing 5 or 6 lbs., and put into 
1 gallon of water ; when it comes to a boil, pour oflf water and 
put fresh water on and boil slowly three and one-half hours. At 
the beginning of the last half hour, add one head of cabbage 
quartered, 15 minutes later add 3 carrots quartered and 3 small 
turnips sliced. One-half hour before add six medium sized po- 
tatoes. Cook beets in a separate kettle. Put meat on large 
platter and arrange vegetables around it, or, can serve vege- 
tables in separate dishes. 

PAPRIKA SCHNITZEL. 

Cut 2 lbs. of thick veal steak into small pieces, roll in seasoned 
flour and fry brown in the fat from several slices of salt pork. 
Remove the meat from the pan and add 2 tablespoons flour to 
the remaining fat, brown lightly and pour in gradually the 
strained liquor from 1 can of tomatoes. Add a slice each of 
onion and carrot, 3 bay leaves, a bit of mace, then return meat 
to the sauce, cover closely and simmer }i of an hour. When 
done remove the meat, season the sauce with salt and paprika 
and strain onto the platter. 

ROAST DUCK. 
Select a young duck, about 4 pounds. It should roast about 
three-quarters of an hour. 

Stuffing,— About two dozen very small German potatoes 
boiled. Two apples cut in small pieces. One small onion 
chopped fine. Season to taste with salt, pepper, sage or thyme. 
Put all together and fill the duck. Mrs. Macquarrie. 



55 



CREAMED CHICKEN. 

For 4 chickens : Boil and cut up chicken fine. Four cups 
cream, 4 large tablespoonfuls butter, 5 even tablespoonfuls 
flour, 2 kinds of pepper, >4 grated onion, a little nutmeg, 1 can 
mushrooms. Put all in baking dish, sprinkle with bread crumbs 
and bake 20 minutes. The cream, butter and flour should be 
mixed like cream sauce and poured over and mixed with the 
chicken. Then stir in pepper, onion, nutmeg and mushrooms. 

Mrs, Bryan. 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

Cut a young chicken into pieces, remove all of the skin. Dip 
in Ggg, then in cracker crumbs. Cook in butter in a tightly 
covered pan. Add 1 tablespoonful of flour to the gravy, stir- 
ring it carefully to blend it well. Thin with milk and add 
chopped giblets 'to the gravy. Mrs. Macquarrie. 

GLAZED CHESTNUTS FOR TURKEY GARNISH. 

Peel and blanche, put in skillet with 3 tablespoons of hot 
butter, toss them over the fire 8 minutes, then put around turkey 
on platter, adding some to the dressing. Mrs. Harris. 

PRESSED CHICKEN WITH EGG. 

One large fowl, 1 onion, let simmer until meat falls from 
bones, put in one tablespoonful salt when about half done. 
When tender remove skin and cut meat into dice. Skim liquor, 
add salt, paprika, 1 tablespoon of lemon juice; boil until re- 
duced to 2y2 cupfuls and add % box of gelatine previously 
soaked in ^ cup of cold water. Add liquor to chicken ; mix 
well and put into moulds with slices of hard boiled eggs in bot- 
tom of moulds. Mrs. C. A. Spencer. 

CHICKEN CHOP SOOY. 

One chicken, 3 or 4 lbs. in weight, cut up and boiled in water 
until tender. Let stand until cold. One cup rice boiled in 3 
quarts of water, 1 can mushrooms (button) braised in 2 table- 
spoons of water until butter is all absorbed by mushrooms. 
Make a cream sauce of 1 cup milk, 1 cup cream, and 2 tabk- 
spoons cornstarch. Cut all the meat from the chicken into dic«:. 
Butter a baking dish, and put in a layer of the cream sauce, 

56 



then 1-3 of the chicken, then a layer of the rice, and then a 
layer of the mushrooms. Cover with another layer of the 
sauce. Continue the layers until all the ingredients are used, 
having a layer of the sauce on top, which sprinkle with bread 
crumbs and little bits of butter. Bake for 20 minutes. This 
can also be baked in individual moulds. 

Mrs. F. E. Hubbard. 

CHICKEN POT ROAST. 

Take a chicken between 3 and 4 lbs. and prepare the same 
as for oven roasting. Stuff with an c rdinary sage dressing and 
put in pot with 2 quarts of water. When it comes to a boil, 
let simmer for about 2 hours, and then brown. This is nicest 
served cold. Mrs. Hubbard. 

BAKED SPRING CHICKEN. 

Split the chickens down the back, and then cut each piece 
in half. Wash and dry thoroughly. Put in larded dripping 
pan, season with salt and pepper, put a piece of sliced bacon on 
each piece and bake from 20 to 30 minutes in hot oven. If 
bacon is not liked, baste with melted butter and water. 

An Indian dish that the Southern people are very fond of 
called "Jambalaya" of fowl and rice. Cut up and stew a fowl, 
when half done, add cup raw rice, slice of minced ham, cook 
all together until rice swells and absorbs all the gravy. Serve 
in a deep dish very hot, salt and pepper to taste. Sometimes 
add tomatoes or peas. 

MEAT SOUFFLE. 

One cup of rich milk or cream, thicken with 2 tablespooii'- 
fuls of butter, and 1 of flour. Season with chopped parsley and 
onion juice. Stir in one cup of any kind of cold meat. Add 
the beaten yolks of 2 eggs and cook 1 minute and set aside to 
cool. When cold stir in whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Bake 
in a buttered dish about twenty minutes. Serve immediately. 
This is best made with chicken. Mrs. Lewis. 

BROWN FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN. 

Cut up the chicken and brown the pieces in 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, being careful not to let the butter burn. When 

57 



nicely browned draw the pieces to one side of pan, add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour to the fat, mix and add 1 pint of cold water 
or stock. Stir until it boils, moving the chicken around in 
the sauce. Add 1 slice of onion, 1 small chopped carrot, salt 
and pepper. Cover the pan and let simmer until the chicken is 
tender. Mrs. E. Pease. 

MELTON VEAL. 

Take cold boiled or roasted veal, chop fine, season well 
with salt and pepper, and a little lemon juice, add 2 or 3 table- 
spoonfuls of cracker crumbs and moisten with soup stock or 
hot water. Take 1-3 as much finely chopped ham as of veal. 
Season with mustard and a little cayenne pepper, add 1 table- 
spoonful of cracker crumbs and moisten with a hot stock or 
water. Butter a mould and line with slices of hard boiled egg. 
Put in the two mixtures irregularly, so that when cut it will 
have a mottled appearance. Press in closely and steam three- 
quarters of an hour. Set away to cool. Remove from the 
mould and slice before serving. Boston Cook Book. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Three pounds of raw veal and >^ pound of salt pork passed 
through a meat cutter, six large crackers rolled fine, butter size 
of an egg, 2 eggs well beaten, 1 tablespoonful salt, 1 tablespoon- 
ful of pepper, 1 of sage, 3 of extract of celery, 1 tablespoonful of 
onion chopped fine (if liked). I lix thoroughly. Pack tightly 
in a deep tin baking dish, cover with bits of butter and sprinkle 
fine cracker crumbs over the top. Cover with another tin. Bake 
2 hours, uncover and brown. Mrs. Lewis. 

BREAST OF VEAL WITH DRESSING. 

Have pocket cut in a 6 lb. breast of veal, with 2 lbs. of 
chopped meat (2-3 beef and 1-3 pork) add 2 eggs, 1 cup finely 
grated bread crumbs, 1 tablespoonful finely chopped onions and 
season with pepper and salt and a little parsley. Fill the pocket 
and sew. Roast with slices of bacon placed on top of the 
meat. This can be served with apple sauce, currant or cran- 
berry jelly. It slices nicely when cold. 

Mrs. F. Voightman. 

58 



MEAT PORCUPINE. 

Chop fine some cooked veal or lamb, add ^ its amount of 
bread crumbs or mashed potato and a small quantity of chopped 
bacon ; season hi,c:hly with salt, pepper cayenne, and lemon 
juice, moisten with beaten egg and stock or water enough to 
shape it. Mould into an oval loaf and put into a well greased 
shallow pan. Cut strips of fat bacon ^i inch wide and 1 inch 
long. Make holes in the loaf with a skewer, insert the strips of 
bacon leaving the ends out j4 inch and push the meat up firmly 
around the bacon. Bake until brown. The bacon will baste the 
meat sufficiently. Mrs. Lincoln. 

VEAL BIRDS. 

Slices of veal from loin cut very thin, remove bones, skin 
and fat, pound until % inch thick. Trim into pieces 2^ by 4 
inches. Chop the trimmings fine with 1 square inch of salt 
pork for each bird. Add half as much fine cracker crumbs as 
you have meat, season highly with salt, pepper, thyme and 
onions. Moisten with 1 egg. Spread the mixture on each slice 
nearly to the edge, roll up tightly and tie or fasten with skewers, 
dredge with salt, pepper and flour, fry them slowly in hot but- 
ter until a golden brown. Then half cover with cream and 
simmer 15 or 20 minutes until tender. Serve on toast, garnish 
with parsley and lemon. 

VEAL JELLY. 

One knuckle veal, about 4 pounds, 2 hard boiled eggs, juice 
of 1 lemon, 2 tablespoonfuls minced onion, carrot, parsley, 
mace, cinnamon, cloves, thyme, pepper, salt. Break knuckle 
into pieces and put in sauce pan with water to cover. Tie up all 
the seasoning except pepper, salt and lemon in muslin bag and 
put in with veal. Cook slowly 4 hours. Take the meat out, 
free from bone and fat, cut in pieces and strain over it the 
water it was boiled in. Add salt, pepper and lemon juice and 
simmer half an hour. Arrange slices of cold boiled egg in 
mould, pour in veal and set in cold place to harden. 

Mrs. Macquarrie. 
STUFFED VEAL. 

Remove the bone from a shoulder of veal. Replace with 
sliced onion, salt and pepper, dredge with flour, baste with the 

59 



drippings in pan. Bake 20 minutes for each pound. Make 
a nice gravy by dredging a heaping tablespoonful of flour 
(after taking out the meat) to the pan, add boiHng water. 
Serve potatoes around platter. Mrs. Harris. 

MUSHROOMED CUTLETS. 

Cut 1^ pounds veal cutlets into individual pieces. Dress 
with a teaspoonful of salt and 1 saltspoonful of pepper; dip 
first in beaten ^gg and then in finely chopped mushrooms. 
Fry in boiling fat until done. Miss A. Caskey. 

VEAL OLIVES. 

Cut up a slice of fillet of veal, about ^ inch thick, into 
squares of 3 inches; mix up a little salt pork, chopped with 
bread crumbs, 1 onion, a little pepper, salt, sweet marjoram, 
1 Qgg well beaten ; put this mixture upon the pieces of veal, 
fastening the corners together with small bird skewers ; lay 
in pan with sufficient gravy or light stock to cover bottom of 
pan ; dredge with flour and set in a hot oven. When browned 
on top put a small bit of butter on each and let them remain 
until tender, about 20 minutes. Serve with horseradish. 

Mrs, C. R. G. Forrester. 

TIMBALE OF VEAL. 

Boil veal, as for stew, until tender. Season well with salt 
and pepper. Let it get cold in the stock, then chop quite fine. 
To a quart of chopped veal, add the same amount of bread 
crumbs, a tablespoon onion juice, salt and pepper to taste. 
Take a pint and a half of the gravy the meat was cooked in, 
adding a good tablespoon of butter, and heat, and, while hot, 
pour over the meat and bread crumbs. Beat 3 eggs very light 
and stir in to the mixture. Butter ramakins, or a deep baking 
pan, and pour the meat into it, packing it in as tight as possible. 
Put ramakins, or baking dish into a deep pan, which fill 
with warm water. Bake slowly for an houi. When done, 
turn out on individual dishes or a platter and garnish as you 
like. Take some of the gravy in which the meat was boiled, 
season well and pour over the timbale. Left-over chicken or 
turkey is nice served this way. T. E, L. 

60 



BREAD DRESSING FOR FOWL. 

Chop twice baked bread fine, take 2 cups of it, mix with 
heart and Hver also chopped fine. Put in the yolks of 2 eggs 
boiled 40 minutes, half cup of chopped celery, half cup of 
chopped nuts, butter size of an egg. Moisten with cream but 
not too moist, salt, pepper and sage to taste, and 1 small onion, 
a small apple and fat salt pork the size of an egg chopped fine 
could be added if desired. Stuff the fowl two-thirds full with 
these ingredients or if preferred bake with the fowl. 

Kenosha, Wis. Mrs. N. A. Pennoyer. 



SALADS. 

''The turnpike road to people's hearts I find, 
Lies through their mouths or I mistake mankind.*' 

EDGEWATER SALAD DRESSING. 

Put 5 tablespoons vinegar into double boiler and heat. Add 
the well beaten yolks of 5 eggs, half cup butter and beat until 
cold. Then add 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon mustard, 1 tea- 
spoon sugar, 1 pinch red pepper. Thin with whipped cream. 

Mrs. C. A. Burton. 

EGYPTIAN MAYONNAISE. 

Make the usual oil mayonnaise. Reduce a clove of garlic 
to a pulp and add it to the dressing. Also add 2 drops of 
tobasco sauce and the pulp of 3 small fresh tomatoes put 
through a sieve and drained of their juice. 

Mrs. Genevieve Bookwalter. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

One saltspoonful salt, ^ saltspoonful pepper, 3 tablespoon- 
fulsoliveoil, 1 tablespoonful vinegar, 1 tablespoonfun\^orces- 
tershire sauce, 1 tablespoonful lemon juice. This dressing is 
suitable for vegetables, salads, or to marinate a fish salad. 

Mrs. N. B. Lewis. 

61 



MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Have all the ingredients very cold ; in fact, put the bowl 
you mix it in on the ice until thoroughly chilled. Take the yolk 
of 1 egg and beat until very light. Add gradually 3 table- 
spoonfuls oil, 1 saltspoonful salt, )^ saltspoonful pepper, 1 
dash paprika, stirring constantly. Then thin until creamy 
with 2 tablespoonfuls tarragon vinegar. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Beat the yolks of 8 eggs, add 1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons 
of mustard, J/2 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon cayenne pepper, 1 
pint vinegar, 1 cup butter, 1 tablespoon cornstarch. Mix the 
salt, pepper, sugar, mustard and cornstarch all together; then 
pour over them the beaten yolks ; let the vinegar and butter 
come to a boil, then pour them over the egg mixture and put 
all into the double boiler and let it thicken. Dilute the vinegar 
with water if it is too strong. When the dressing is cold, use 
equal portions of whipped cream and dressing on salad. 

Mrs. John Vance Cheney. 

DRESSING FOR FRUIT SALAD. 

Two eggs, 2 tablespoons flour. 2 tablespoons vinegar, 
beaten together and cooked until thiciv. Add juice of 1 lemon 
and thin to proper consistency with cream. 

Mrs. Seymour Jones. 

ASPIC JELLY FOR SALADS. 

One and one-half pints of clear stock — beef for amber jelly 
and chicken or veal for white — y^ box gelatine, the white of 
1 egg, half a cupful of cold water, 2 cloves, 1 large slice of 
onion, 12 pepper corns, 1 stalk of celery and salt to taste. Add 
to gelatine and egg. Soak gelatine in cold water until dis- 
solved, then cook with the white of the egg beaten up with a 
little of the cold stock. Let come to a boil and set back where 
it will simmer for 20 minutes. Strain through a napkin, turn 
into a large mould, or several small ones, and set away to 
harden. Before it is hardened asparagus tips or cooked cauli- 
flower may be added Mrs. Cusack. 

62 



FRENCH DRESSING. 

Three tablespoons salad oil, 2 tablespoons vinegar, preferably 
tarragon, 1 saltspoon salt, >4 saltspoon pepper. Mix well and 
pour over fresh vegetables. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of 3 eggs, beaten lightly, 1 teaspoon mustard (dry), 
2 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 54 salt- 
spoon pepper; whites of the eggs beaten, but not stiff; 1 cup 
cream, Vz cup melted butter, measured before melted, 3/< cup 
hot vinegar. Cook all together in double boiler until you can 
feel it is thickening the least bit. Stir constantly, and when 
vou take it from the fire stir until cool. If necessary thin with 
whipped cream. ' Mrs. E. J. Henry. 

VINAIGRETTE DRESSING. 

Two tablespoons salad oil, 2 tablespoons tarragon vinegar; 
mix well, then add 1 teaspoon salt, as much paprika as liked, 
1-3 teaspoon dry mustard. Mix all together thoroughly and 
put in cool place. Chop 8 small sweet pickles fine, also one 
medium sized onion (a clove of garlic may be used instead of 
the onion if preferred) ; add 2-3 tablespoon walnut oil (from 
pickled walnuts) or >< tablespoon Worcestershire sauce. 

Mrs. D. O. Macquarrie. 

WHITE MAYONNAISE. 

One cup cream, 1 tablespoon flour, 3 tablespoons white wine 
vinegar, 2 tablespoons butter, ^ teaspoon powdered sugar, 
1 teaspoon salt, Y^ teaspoon white pepper, i/< teaspoon dry 
mustard, whites of 2 eggs. Cook all together in double boiler, 
stirring constantly until thick and smooth, adding the whipped 
whites of the eggs just before taking from the fire. Thin with 
cream if necessary. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

One saltspoonful salt, ^A saltspoonful pepper, 3 tablespoon- 
fuls oil, Yx teaspoonful onion juice, 1 tablespoonful vinegar. 
Mix in order given, adding oil slowly. 

63 



FRENCH DRESSING. 

Beat 2 tablespoonfiils of good olive oil until creamy, then 
add 2 saltspoonfiils salt and 1 of paprika, beating all the while ; 
beat in gradually 2 tablespoonfuls tarragon vinegar. This 
is enough for one quart of salad. It can be served on cold 
cooked brussels sprouts, beets, peas, beans, cauliflower and all 
the fresh vegetables that are used for salads. 



"SIDNEY SMITH'S WINTER SALAD." 

Two large potatoes passed thro' kitchen sieve, 

Unwonted softness to the salad give ; 

Of mordaunt mustard add a single spoon — 

Distrust the condiment which bites too soon ; 

But deem it not, tho' made of herbs, a fault 

To add a double quantity of salt ; 

Three times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, 

And once with vinegar procured from town. 

True flavor needs it, and your poet begs 

The pounded yellow of two well boiled eggs. 

Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl. 

And, half suspected, animate the whole ; 

And, lastly, on the favored compound toss 

A magic teaspoon of Anchovy sauce. 

Then, tho' green turtle fail, tho' venison's tough, 

Tho' ham and turkey are not boiled enough. 

Serenely full, the epicure shall say, 

"Fate cannot harm me — I have dined to-day !" 



VEGETABLE SALAD. 

Three yolks of eggs, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 small teaspoon 
dry mustard, 1 even teaspoon black pepper, 1 dash red pepper, 
1 dash ginger ; beat all thoroughly, then add 3 tablespoons sour 
cream, 4 tablespoons strong vinegar ; cook all together in double 
saucepan ; 1 pint chopped cabbage, 1 pint celery cut fine, ^ 
medium sized onion, 1 good sized cucumber, seeded and cut in 
dice. Make a bed of celery cut in 3-inch lengths and crisped 
in ice water ; put in salad, mixed with dressing. 

64 



GERMAN POTATO SALAD. 

Two quarts of sliced cold cooked potatoes. Pour boiling 
v/ater on potatoes and drain thoroughly. Then add salt and 
pepper to taste, 1 grated or sliced onion. Cut bacon in dice 
and fry until crisp, then add ^ cup cider vinegar. Let it 
come to a boil, pour over potatoes and mix well. 

Miss Becker. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Peel cucumbers and cut in two lengthwise. Put in cool 
place until ready to serve. (Scrape out the inside.) Make a 
filling of chopped tomatoes, seasoned w4th onion juice, mixed 
with any good mayonnaise dressing. 

VEGETABLE SALAD. 

One pint cold boiled string beans, cut in inch pieces, 3 cold 
boiled beets, diced, 3 cold boiled carrots, diced, 1 cup cooked 
peas. Mix wath a French dressing and garnish with celery. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Cut 1 quart of boiled potatoes into dice. Sprinkle over them 
a teaspoon of chopped onion and 1 of chopped parsley. Heat 
1 cup of vinegar to the boiling point, add 2 tablespoons of 
butter and season with salt and pepper. Boil 3 eggs hard, cool 
and slice each lengthwise into quarters. Garnish the potatoes 
with these and pour dressing over whole. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD. 

Two tablespoons salad oil, 2 tablespoons tarragon vinegar; 
mix well, then add 1 teaspoon salt, as much paprika as liked, 
1-3 teaspoon dry mustard. Mix all together thoroughly and 
put in cool place. Chop about 8 gherkins (sweet) fine, also 
1 medium sized onion, which add to the pickles: add 2-3 
tablespoon walnut oil (from picked walnuts), 1 dash anchovy 
oil. Add to dressing and pour over chilled asparagus. 

Mrs. D. O. Macquarrie. 

65 



SALADE COLUMBINE. 

One quart cooked and strained tomatoes ; add 1 teaspoon 
sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 1^2 teaspoon vinegar, 1 dash of red 
pepper ; dissolve ^ box of gelatine in as little water as possible. 
Stir into hot tomato preparation. Mould in small cups and 
serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise dressing. Two or 
three shrimps add to the effect. Tomatoes may be more highly 
seasoned with spices if desired. Mrs. August Heuer. 

^ NOVELTY SALAD. 

Pare and grate 3 cucumbers, simmer in a cup of water for 
5 minutes. Add enough hot water to make a pint, juice of 

1 lemon, ^ teaspoon salt, saltspoon of white pepper and 2 
tablespoons of gelatine. Pour into ring mould to set. When 
chilled, serve with sliced tomatoes and mayonnaise. 

Mrs. Joseph G. Peters. 

ITALIAN SALAD. 

Take 2 anchovies and mash to a pulp, with a little of the oil 
the anchovies come in. Break 1 clove of garlic into 2 or 3 
pieces and add to anchovies. Add 3 tablespoons tarragon vine- 
gar gradually with 2 saltspoons salt and 1 white pepper. Then 
beat in 6 tablespoons oil very slowly until all are nicely blended. 
Put on ice until ready to be served. This is nice served on 
head lettuce, endive or watercress. Mrs. Hubbard. 

TOMATO JELLY SALAD. 

Three-quarters box gelatine soaked in y^ cup cold water. 
Cook can of tomatoes with ^ onion, 1 stalk celery, 1 bay leaf, 

2 cloves, 1 teaspoon salt, a little parsley and dash of paprika. 
Cook for 10 m.inutes, then strain and add 2 tablespoons tarragon 
vinegar and the gelatine. Turn into moulds. Serve with 
mayonnaise. ' Mrs. Pozvell. 

STUFFED BEET SALAD. 

Boil large beets and scrape off skins. When cold scoop out 
the insides. Chop up equal parts of beets, ham and celery. 
Add a little parsley. Mix with enough salad dressing (mayon- 
naise) to moisten. Be careful about using too much of the 
beet, as it makes it too sweet. Mrs. G. W. Powell. ' 

66 



TOMATO SALAD. 

Peel ,2^ood sized tomatoes, cut in halves and put on ice until 
thoroughly chilled. Make a good French dressing and when 
ready to serve put a teaspoon of pearl onions on each half 
tomato. Serve on lettuce leaves, and pour about 1 tablespoon 
dressing over each one. Mrs. E. C. Noe. 

VEGETABLE SALAD. 

Take cold vegetables left over, such as potatoes, peas, string 
beans, beets, etc., chill them on ice, cover with mayonnaise 
dressing and serve on lettuce. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Eight cold boiled potatoes and 1 small cucumber cut fine, 
1 small onion, 3 stalks tender celery cut fine. Mix with mayon- 
naise dressing and in center put 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls cold 
boiled beets cut fine. 

STRING BEAN SALAD. 

Cook 1 quart of string beans tender, salt; when cold add 
1 medium sized cucumber cut in small pieces, y2 cup chopped 
olives, 1 small cupful chopped English walnuts. Mix with any 
good salad dressing. Anne Mitchell, Albany,, N. Y. 

COLD SLAW. 

Boil half a cup of_ vinegar with 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar, >4 
teaspoonful each of salt and mustard and >4 saltspoonful of 
pepper. Rub a quarter of a cup of butter with 1 teaspoonful 
of flour to a cream and pour the boiling vinegar on it. Cook 
5 minutes, then pour it over 1 well beaten egg. Mix this 
dressing while hot with 1 pint of red or white shaved or 
chopped cabbage. Mrs. Lezvis. 

ITALIAN SALAD. 

One cup boiled beets chopped fine, 3/^ cup boiled ham 
chopped, 1 cup celery cut thin. Mix, add a good salad dress- 
ing and garnish with celery leaves. 

Mrs. F. C. Gilbert, Duliith, Minn. 

67 



KING EDWARD'S SALAD. 

Two heads of lettuce, uncurl each leaf, break in 3 pieces 
as it drops in the salad bowl ; 3 bunches of the smallest radishes 
grown, drop in with the leaves ; 3 little cucumbers, pickle size, 
shave with cabbage shaver, scatter in layers. Add 3 olives 
stoned ; cut 1 apple in small bits ; cut olives in quarters. Serve 
with French dressing. Mrs. Henry S. Harris. 

COMBINATION SALAD. 

Peel and slice 1 cucumber, peel and slice 3 tomatoes, slice 
thin 1 medium sized onion, cut 1 green pepper in small pieces, 
being careful to remove all the seeds ; 2 heads of lettuce washed 
and drained. Toss this up with any good French dressing. 
Have everything cold and the lettuce crisp. Mrs. E. C. Noe. 

SHAD ROE SALAD. 

Soak the roe in cold water for about 5 minutes ; then put it 
into a quart of boiling water, seasoning with 2 teaspoons salt, 
1 tablespoon chopped onion, ^ bay leaf, 1 teaspoon mixed 
whole spice and 2 tablespoons lemon juice. Simmer for about 
15 minutes, add cold water gradually so as not to break the 
roe, drop a piece of ice in the water and let it stand until thor- 
oughly chilled. Then cut into dice. Take medium sized toma- 
toes, cut off the stem end and scoop out the seeds and pulp. 
Put on ice until ready to serve. Then fill with the roe, pour 
over a good French dressing and serve on a bed of watercress. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

Pick over 1 can of shrimps, removing the black line ; add 2 
cups finely cut celery. Break the shrimps in small pieces. Mix 
with mayonnaise dressing and place on ice until thoroughly 
chilled. When ready to serve place on lettuce leaves and add 
more mayonnaise. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Cut 1 pint of lo1:stcr meat in dice, season with a French dress- 
ing and keep on ice until ready to serve. Then mix with i/< 
of the mayonnaise dressing. Make nests of crisp lettuce leaves, 
the poorer leaves can be broken and mixed with the lobster. 

68 



Put a large spoonful of the lettue in each leaf with a spoonful 
of the dressing on top. Garnish with capers and pounded coral 
sprinkled over the dressing, and with lobster claws and parsley 
around the edge. Mrs. Lincoln. 

SALAION SALAD. 

One can salmon, 3 boiled potatoes, 3 hard boiled eggs, me- 
dium sized onion and some chopped celery. For dressing take 
1 teaspoon sugar, 1 teaspoon mustard, 1 teaspoon fiour, scant 
spoon salt, ^2 cup cream, y2 cup vinegar, 1 egg, butter size of 
walnut, pinch of cayenne pepper. Put in double boiler and cook 
until it thickens. Lillian L. Bim, 

OYSTER SALAD. 

One quart small oysters, 1 pint chopped celery, 3 tablespoons 
vinegar, 1 tablespoon oil. salt and pepper to taste. Let the 
ovstcrs come to a boil in their own liquor. Drain, season with 
the salt and pepper, vinegar and oil. Set aside to get cold. 
When ready to serve drain the oysters, add the celery. Arrange 
on lettuce leaves and serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

Mrs. L. P. Hiirter. 

SHROTP SALAD. 

Cut shrimps into halves and put into molds. Pour over 
lemon jelly made without sweetening and season well. Turn 
out on lettuce leaves. Put 2 small shrimps on top and pour 
over it a mayonnaise dressing. Mrs. Peters. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

F>reak a pint of fresh or canned shrimps into halves ; peel 
and quarter 1 large cucumber, take out seeds and cut into dice. 
Mix with shrimps and marinate with a good French dressing. 
Put on ice until chilled through. Wash and chill in ice water 
the white part of two heads of endive. When ready to serve 
make a border of the endive, drain and put shrimps and cucum- 
ber in center and dress with a good mayonnaise. This is very 
nice served in tomato shells on lettuce leaves. 

Mrs. F. E. Hubbard. 

69 



AQUARIUM SALAD. 

Wash 2 bunches fresh mint and pour over it 1 pint boiling 
water. Soak 2 tablespoons gelatine in 1 cup cold water ^ 
hour, then add the juice of 3 lemons, Y^ cup sugar and pour 
over hot mint water. Stir until dissolved. Strain and color with 
any good green coloring. Wet a mould, put in dishpan of ice 
water. Pour the jelly into the mould to a depth of 1 inch. 
When it is set, put in a layer of yellow sardines and pour on 
more jelly. Let this harden, then add more fish and jelly. Then 
wash and dry the inside leaves of one or more heads of let- 
tuce. Make a layer of these representing shells; pour on rest 
of jelly to make a smooth finish to mould. Set away to harden. 
Serve with mayonnaise and garnish with watercress. 

Mrs. S. F. Klohs, 

ALMOND SALAD. 

One pound almonds shelled and blanched, cut in halves; 1 
pint celery cut in small pieces. Mix all together with 2 table- 
spoons vinegar, salt and pepper to taste. Put in cool place for 
2 hours, drain, mix with a good mayonnaise dressing and 
serve on lettuce. Mrs. Hurter. 

CHESTNUT SALAD. 

Boil large Spanish chestnuts for about 10 minutes. Re- 
move the shells and boil again in salted water until tender. Put 
in ice cold water until thoroughly chilled, drain well, serve on 
lettuce leaves with a mayonnaise dressing. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

One-half pound of white grapes, seeded, and cut in half, 1 
grape fruit cut in half and pulp scooped out, 1 banana quar- 
tered and cut in small pieces, 12 Maraschino cherries. Chill 
thoroughly. Whip a ^ill of sweet cream until very light, add 
gradually 2 tablespoons of sugar and four tablespoons tarra- 
gon vinegar. Arrange fruit in bowl with the bleached leaves 
of head lettuce. Pour dressing over salad when ready to serve. 

GRAPE FRUIT SALAD. 

Allow half of a grape fruit for each person. Use y2 as 
much celery as fruit. Shell and break up in small pieces about 

70 



3 walnuts for each person. Mix all together with a mayon- 
naise dressing and serve on lettuce. 

APPLE SALAD. 

Pare and core 1 medium sized tart apple for each person. 
Put in ice box until thoroughly chilled. Make a mayonnaise 
dressing, add chopped pecan nuts. Fill each apple with a 
dressing and serve on lettuce. 

NUT SALAD. 

Use equal parts of fresh English walnut meats broken in 
small pieces and crisp celery cut in inch lengths. Mix with a 
good mayonnaise dressing and let stand an hour before serv- 
ing. Serve on watercress or head lettuce. 

APPLE SALAD. 

Peel and core 4 large, tart apples, seed and cut in half 1 
pound white grapes, Y^ pound shelled pecans broken in small 
pieces. Mix with a mayonnaise dressing and dress with the 
white part of endive. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

One-half pound English walnuts broken in small pieces, 3 
stalks celery cut fine, I/2 pound white California grapes seeded, 
3 large Jonathan apples diced. Mix with mayonnaise dressing. 
Serve on lettuce. Mrs. Fred Caine. 

CHERRY SALAD. 

Take Maraschino cherries, drain off liquor and put into the 
cavity left by the stone a hazel nut meat, blanched in hot water 
and skin rubbed off. Have the nuts cold before placing in 
cherries. Set the prepared cherries on ice until ready to serve. 
Cover with mayonnaise dressing and serve on lettuce. 

OR 

Mix Maraschino cherries with English walnut meats, add 
a little of the juice and add either French or mayonnaise dress- 
ing. 

71 



BANANA AND PEANUT SALAD. 

Slice bananas lengthwise. Cover with finely ground peanuts 
and serve on lettuce leaves with rich mayonnaise. 

Mrs. Genevieve Bookzualter. 

CHERRY SALAD. 

Take California cherries, stone and add chopped English 
walnuts and chopped celery in equal parts. Mix with mayon- 
naise dressing and serve on lettuce leaves cut in strips or let- 
tuce cups. 

PEANUT SALAD. 

Soak 1 cup of nuts in olive oil, drain and mix with 2 cups 
of finely cut celery and 1 dozen pitted olives. Mix with a 
mayonnaise dressing and serve on lettuce. 

From ''Tried and True." 

ORANGE SALAD. 

Peel and cut 2 oranges in small pieces, add ^4 oi a. pound of 
English walnuts blanched. Serve on lettuce with mayon- 
naise dressing. Mrs. Henry S. Harris. 

WHITE GRAPE AND CELERY SALAD. 

Seed California grapes ; add equal parts of diced celery. 
Serve on lettuce leaf with oil mayonnaise. Grace Jones. 

GRAPE FRUIT SALAD. 

Peel and break the grape fruit up into pieces, then add an 
equal amount of celery cut in rather small pieces. Serve on 
lettuce with French dressing. Mrs. Hal D. Tracey. 

COCOANUT SALAD. 

One-half cocoanut grated, 2 large Jonathan apples peeled, 
cored and diced, 2 stalks celery cut fine, 2 tablespoons sweet 
onions chopped very fine, 1 tablespoon parsley cut fine, 3 chili 
peppers. INTix, cover with a good French dressing and serve, 
either in cucumber boats or tomato shells. 

72 



BANANA SALAD. 

Cut bananas in half lengthwise, place on lettuce leaves and 
pour over a good boiled salad dressing to which has been added 
1 cup of whipped cream and chopped almonds. Garnish with 
Maraschino and mint cherries. Mrs. John Vance Cheney. 

LEMON CREAM SALAD. 

Beat yolks of 3 eggs very light, add gradually 1 small cup- 
ful sugar, 2 teaspoons flour and the juice of 2 lemons. Melt 

1 teaspoon butter in I34 cupfuls boiling water, add the beaten 
^gg mixture and boil until thick. Remove from fire and whip 
in 1 cup of whipped cream. Peel and cut in small pieces 1 
large, tart apple, slice 4 bananas, six thick slices of canned 
pineapple. Mix and chill thoroughly. When ready to serve 
mix with dressing and put on lettuce leaves in fancy fruit 
glasses. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Pineapple, oranges, bananas, white grapes seeded and peeled 
peaches, as many as desired. Put in a bowl, squeeze the juice of 

2 large oranges in another bowl ; add ^ pound of powdered 
sugar, ^ pint of Maraschino, 1 gill of brandy, 3 tablespoons of 
cracked ice. Mix well, pour over fruit. Beat a quart of fresh 
cream stiff, add sugar and Maraschino, 1 gill. Mix gently. 
Put the cream high in the center; add a few grapes. Pretty 
salad and good. Mrs. Henry S. Harris. 

GRAPE FRUIT SALAD. 

Prepare the grape fruit as for the table, sweeten to taste. 
Mix 1 tablespoon of salad oil with the juice of 1 lemon. Sea- 
son with paprika and salt, pour over grape fruit. Serve on 
lettuce. Maraschino improves it, adding the cherries on top 
of the salad. Mrs. Henry S. Harris. 

MARGUERITE SALAD. 

Take 6 hard boiled eggs, rub yolks through sieve, chop 
whites fine, moisten with mayonnaise dressing. Make cups 
of lettuce leaves, putting in each 1 teaspoonful of the yolks 
and around them the chopped whites. 

73 



CHICKEN SALAD. 

Boil 1 chicken until tender. Chop moderately fine the whites 
of 12 hard boiled eggs. Cut the chicken up in small pieces. 
Measure the chicken and add as much chopped celery and cab- 
bage in equal parts. Mash the yolks fine, add 2 tablespoons 
butter, 2 teaspoons sugar, 1 teaspoon mixed mustard. Season 
to taste with salt and pepper, then beat in gradually ^ cup 
good vinegar. Mix chicken, whites of eggs and celery and 
cabbage, put into bowl, pour over dressing and garnish with 
lettuce leaves and stuffed olives. Mrs. Lawrence. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD. 

Soak sweetbreads in salt water for an hour, then boil until 
tender. Cool, then chop fine and mix with 1-3 as much celery. 
Serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

COTTAGE CHEESE SALAD. 

Mix cottage cheese with cream, season with salt and pepper, 
make into little balls and serve with watercress on lettuce 
leaves, with either a French dressing or a mayonnaise. 

DEVILLED HAM SALAD. 

Mix 2 teaspoons devilled ham with 4 tablespoons grated 
horseradish. Sprinkle 'jA teaspoon salt over 3 cups of cold 
boiled potatoes diced ; add 1 teaspoon of lemon juice ; stir in 
gently J/2 of ham mixture and pour balance over all. Garnish 
with hard boiled eggs cut in quarters lengthwise, sliced gher- 
kins and sprigs of fresh parsley. 

SALAD. 

White cherries stuffed with hazel nuts or filberts on crisp 
lettuce leaves, shaped like a cup, white mayonnaise. A very 
pretty salad for a green and white luncheon. Ida S. Downs. 

CHRYSANTHEMUM SALAD. 

Take small yellow chrysanthemums and put them into boil- 
ing water and cook about 2 minutes. Drain and put into very 
cold water until ready to serve. Then drain again and put into 
a bowl with sugar, salt and vinegar enough to season. Mix 
thoroughly. Mrs. Tei Miyamori. 

74 



NASTURTIUM SALAD. 

Take cucumbers, peel them and cut in halves lengthwise. 
Scoop out all the seeds and lay in ice cold water until readv to 
serve (One-half cucumber for each person to be served.) 
For each cucumber chop fine 1 peeled tomato, 4 or 5 medium 
sized nasturtium leaves, 1 small onion and ^2 cup chopped cab- 
bage Make a white mavonnaise dressing. Mix /^ cupful of 
it with vegetables. Fill each cucumber boat with salad. Use 
nasturtium leaves and blossoms for ^^^^^^^^^^^^ 



PASTRY. 

''What moistens the Up and zvhat brightens the eye. 
What calls back the past like the rich pumpkin pie? _ 

— Whittier. 

PASTRY. 

The water used in making pastry should always be cold, and 
in summer ice water is the best. Fruit and filling should always 
be cold when put into the crust. 

PUFF PASTE. 

One CUD flour. 1 cup butter, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful 
suear T// teaspoonful baking powder. Rub all well together 
Beat 1 egg very light, add 1 small bottle of very cold cream and 
add to the other ingredients. You may have to add a little 
more flour. Handle as little as possible. Mrs. A. Marks, 

PLAIN PIE CRUST. 
Sufficient for 1 pie : 1 cup of flour to /2 cup of lard, ^tea- 
spoonful salt and pinch of baking powder, 3 tablespoons ice 
water. 

CUSTARD PIE. 
Make a custard of the volks of 3 eggs and the white of \. ^2 
cup of sugar, 2 cups of rich milk, a pinch of salt and flavoring 
to^suit thi taste. Bake it in ordinary crust. Put it m quick 



75 



5ven that the crust may not be heavy^ and as soon as it is 
heated remove it to a place in the oven of a more moderate 
heat, that the custard may bake slowly and not curdle. When 
done beat the whites of 2 eggs to a froth ; add tablespoon sugar 
and spread over the top and return to the oven to brown. 

Mrs. E. C. Noe. 

CHERRY PIE. 

Line the dish with good crust and fill with ripe cherries that 
have previously been pitted, regulating the quantity of sugar 
you scatter over them by their sweetness. Sprinkle 1 table- 
spoonful flour over all and cover and bake in medium hot oven 
about y2 hour. 

POTATO PIE. 

Cream 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 cup sugar (scant), yolks of 
2 eggs, beaten until they are very light, 1 cup of milk, 1 cup of 
cold mashed potatoes pressed through colander, add a little 
salt. Lastly add the beaten whites of 2 eggs and bake with 1 
crust, same as custard pie. Mrs. Frank Upham. 

MRS BAST'S MINCE MEAT. 

Four pounds lean beef, 3^ pound suet, 1 pound raisins, 1 
pound currants, 2 pounds brown sugar, I/2 peck apples, ^ pound 
citron, 1 tablespoon cloves, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 1 table- 
spoon mace, 2 nutmegs, cider to taste. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Five pounds very lean boiled beef chopped fine, 4 pounds 
seeded raisins, 4 pounds currants, 3 pounds finely chopped suet, 
1^ pecks finely chopped apples, 1 tablespoonful salt, 4 pounds 
brown sugar, 3 ounces ground cinnamon, 3 ounces allspice, 3 
ounces cloves. Mix thoroughly, add 3 quarts scalding hot 
sweet apple cider. When thoroughly mixed add 1 quart best 
brandy. Let stand in crock 3 weeks before using. Add more 
spice and cider if necessary. Dr. Jessie G. Forrester. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

Make puff paste of 1 cup flour and little salt, ^^ cup lard and 
y^ cup water. Line two pie plates. 

76 



CUSTARD. 

Yolks of 6 eggs, 1 cnp sugar, 1 pint sweet milk, 1 fresh co- 
coaniit (grated). Beat whites with little sugar and put on top 
and brown in oven. Lillian L. Binz. 

CREAM COCOANUT PIE. 

Bake pie crust, then make filling and when cool fill the crust 
and bake for about 10 minutes in a moderate oven. Filling: 

1 quart cream or milk, add a little piece of butter. Cook in a 
double boiler and add to same 1 tablespoon of corn starch or 
flour. Grate cocoanut, add 1 cup sugar and pour boiling mix- 
ture over it. When cold, or nearly so, add the beaten whites of 
4 eggs. Bake with one crust. Make two pies. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

Four tablespoonfuls grated chocolate, 1 pint water, yolk of 

2 eggs, 2 tablespoons cornstarch, 6 tablespoons sugar. Boil 
until thick. 1 teaspoon vanilla. Bake the crust, pour in choco- 
late. Beat whites of eggs with 1 cup of sugar. Spread over 
the top and brown. Mrs. M. L. Fixen. 

LEMON PIE. 

Three-fourths cup sugar, yolks of 3 eggs, 2 tablespoons 
melted butter, 2 tablespoons sweet cream, juice and grated rind 
of 1 lemon. Frosting: Whites of 3 eggs beaten stifif, ^ cup 
of sugar. Mrs. John Vance Cheny. 

COCOANUT CREAM PIE. 

Heat 2 cups sweet milk, thicken with 2 tablespoons corn 
starch, add yolks of 2 eggs, sugar and flavoring to taste. It 
should be very thick so it will be firm when cold. Stir in y2 
cup of fresh grated cocoanut and spread in a previously baked 
rich crust. Beat up the whites of the 2 eggs with sugar to a 
stiff merangue, sprinkle thickly with cocoanut "and brown in 
oven. Mrs. Seymour Jones. 

SQUASH PIE. 

Two teacups of boiled squash, y^ teacup brown sugar, 3 eggs, 
2 tablespoonfuls of molasses, 1 tablespoonful melted butter, >^ 
tcaspoonful ginger, Yz teaspoonful cinnamon, 2 teacups of milk, 
a little salt. Makes 2 pies. 

77 



APPLE LEMON PIE. 

Grate the yellow rind of 1 lemon, add the juice, 1 egg, 1 cup 
of sugar. Beat well together, then stir in 2 medium sized 
apples, grated. Bake between two crusts. 

Mrs. Alniet Powell. 

NEW ENGLAND PUMPKIN PIE. 

Stew the pumpkin until soft and then press through a sieve. 
To a quart of pumpkin allow 2 quarts of milk and 6 eggs. Beat 
the eggs well and stir into the milk, adding gradually the sifted 
pumpkin, add a little melted butter, sweeten to taste, a little 
salt, a very little cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful ginger. Pour into 
shells of pie paste and bake in a quick oven. 

RHOBARB PIE. 

Peel the rhubarb, cut into inch pieces, pour boiling water 
over it, let it stand 10 minutes, drain, fill the pie plate, sprinkle 
thickly with 1 cup of sugar, dot with bits of butter, cover with 
a crust and bake. Boston Cook Book. 

LEMON PIE. 

Line pie plate with rich crust. Boil 1 small cup milk and 1 
teaspoonful flour in a double boiler for 3 minutes. Grate the 
rind and squeeze the juice of 1 lemon, add to it 6 tablespoons 
sugar (heaping) and yolks of 2 eggs, beat well and add milk 
and flour. Stir together and pour into pie plate, bake 15 min- 
utes. Have the whites of 2 eggs beaten stifif, add 3 tablespoons 
of granulated sugar, spread on pie and return to oven and 
brown. 

MOCK CHERRY PIE. 

One and one-half cups cranberries (split), Vi cup large 
raisins stoned- and chopped, 1 cup boiling water, 1 cup sugar 
(granulated), 1 tablespoon flour, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Bake 
with two crusts. 

PINEAPPLE PIE. 

One cup sugar, y2 cup butter, 1 cup sweet cream, 5 eggs, 1 
pineapple, grated. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add 
beaten yolks of eggs, then the pineapple and cream, and lastly 

78 



the beaten whites, whipped in lightly ; or the whites can be used 

in a meringue for the top. Bake with an under crust only. 

Mrs. F. E. Hubbard. 

CUPID'S WELLS. 

Cut the rounds of puiT paste of 3 or 4 different sizes, use the 
largest one for the bottom and cut the centers from the others, 
leaving the rims of different width, and put them on the whole 
round, with the narrowest at the top. Bake and fill with the 
following : 1 can grated pineapple, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup water, 

1 tablespoonful flour. Cook slowly 30 minutes. This mixture 
will make 14 tarts. 

LEMON PIE FILLING. 

Juice of 2 lemons, grated rind of 1 lemon, yolks of 2 eggs, 
l}i cups of sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls corn starch, slightly 
rounded, 1 cup of boiling water ; add the water after the other 
ingredients have been thoroughly beaten together, then cook 
until clear. HaA^e the pie crust baked before filling. Whites of 

2 eggs for the meringue on pie. Mrs. C. M. Walworth. 

LEMON PIE. 

One tablespoonful of corn starch stirred into a little cold 
water, add 1 cup of boiling water, let it come to a boil, then add 
7 tablespoonfuls of sugar, yolks of 4 eggs, grated rind and juice 
of 2 lemons. Bake with a bottom crust. Then beat the v/hites 
of the 4 eggs with 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, cover the top of 
the pie and brown slightly. 

DELICIOUS PRUNE PIE. 

Make a crust of 1 large cup flour and J/ cup butter ; a little 
water ver}' cold. Roll, then take 1 tablespoonful butter and 
put it over the roiled crust in small bits ; fold, and leave in the 
ice chest half an hour before using. This method of making 
the crust gives it a fluffy, puft'-paste-like consistency. For the 
filling: Scald ^ pound prunes, then boil until tender with 4 
tablespoonfuls sugar and ^2 cup of fruit juice (any left over 
juice from preserved fruit will do) ; stone ; add 2 tablespoonfuls 
chocolate and 3 tablespoonfuls of the juice. Cover with nar- 
row strips crossing each other. 

Mrs. A. B. Ward, 176 Tzventy-fonrth St., Milwaukee, Wis. 

79 



CURRANT PIE. 

One cup mashed ripe currants, 1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls 
water,^ 2 tablespoonfuls flour and beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Frost 
top with whites of eggs whipped with 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
Very nice. 

PINEAPPLE PIE. 

One small pineapple grated fine or >^ can grated pineapple, 
1 cup cream, i^ cup sugar, yolks of 3 eggs. Mix all together 
and bake in a rich paste, add the whites of the eggs, well beaten, 
with 2 tablespoonfuls granulated sugar. 

Mrs. Alonzo P. Daniels. 

LEMON PI£:. 
(One pie onl^.) 
One cup of sugar, ^ cup of butter, 3 eggs beaten together, 1 
lemon, juice only. Bake in crust. 

PIE CRUST. 
One cup of winter wheat flour, 1 tablespoonful of cottolene 
or 2 tablespoonfuls of lard, >4 teaspoonful salt, 3 tablespoonfuls 
of cold water. Miss Jennie Drake. 

PRUNE PIE. 

Soak the prunes in cold water (1 pound) and when fully 
swollen, stew them in w^ater vb cover until very tender. Press 
through a strainer, flavor with lemon or pineapple and sweeten 
to taste. To each cup of the strained prunes allow 2 eggs and 
y2 cup of cream. Beat the yolks, mix with cream, then stir 
into prunes, adding the stiffly beaten whites the very last thing. 
Make a rich pastry, line the tin and pour in the prune mixture 
and bake in a quick oven. Mrs. Lincoln. 

WASHINGTON PIE. 

One cup sugar, 1 tgg, 1 large kitchen spoon butter, 2 cups 
flour, 2 level teaspoons cream tartar, 1 level teaspoon soda (3 
teaspoons baking powder can be used instead of cream of tartar 
and soda) . Salt and flavor to taste. Filling : 1 cup milk, yolks 
of 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon flour, 2 tablespoons sugar. Flavor with 
vanilla. Cook in double boiler, stirring constantly until it 
thickens. Mrs. E. J. Henry. 

so 



PAN DOUDY FOR DESSERT. 

Take a nice white granite iron deep baking dish and put 
thin pie crust all on the sides, inside the pan ; cut the apples 
(pippins) into dice, toss it full of these pieces well wet up with 
cold water and sugar and little cinnamon or nutmeg and cover 
with upper crust when well baked (slowly). Take off upper 
crust and add plenty of fresh butter and more sugar and place 
back again and put something heavy on top when cooling. Eat 
with cream. Mrs. N. A. Pennoyer, Kenosha, Wis. 

SQUASH PIE. 

One pint of milk, 1 pint of stewed squash, 1 level tablespoon 
of butter, 1 level teaspoon of salt, 1 good half cup of sugar, 
y2 teaspoon of ginger, % oi 2i nutmeg, grated, 2 eggs, a piece 
of stick cinnamon about 2 inches long, 1 teaspoon of ground 
cinnamon, % teaspoon of cloves. Put the milk and cinnamon 
on the fire in the double boiler and cook for 20 minutes. Rub 
the squash through a fine strainer and add the salt, sugar, but- 
ter and spices to it. Pour the boiling milk on the mixture. Re- 
move the cinnamon and beat well, then set away to cool. When 
cool add the eggs, which should have been thoroughly beaten 
with a spoon. Line a deep plate with pastry and pour the 
squash mixture into it. Bake for 45 minutes in a moderate 
oven. Miss L. Thieme. 



PUDDINGS, 

''The proof of the pudding is in the eating.'' (Or if you pre- 
fer the later version "in kissing the cook.'') 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One and one-half pounds each raisins and currants, y^ pound 
each citron and lemon, 1 pound each suet, brown sugar and 
bread crumbs, 1 nutmeg, 1 tablespoonful cinnamon, 1 teaspoon- 
ful each cloves and mace, ^ teaspoonful allspice, 1 g'fll each 
brandy and wine, 6 eggs. Cut lemon and citron in thin 
slices, chop suet very fine, being careful to remove all strings, 
beat eggs ; put all into bowl, mix well, press into pan smoothly. 

81 



Cover closely before putting in steamer. Steam 5 hours. Serve 
with brandy sauce, for which cream together tablespoonful but- 
ter, 1 cup powdered sugar, add juice of Yz lemon, stir in 3 
tablespoon fuls boiling water, heat for 2 minutes over fire, or 
until steaming hot, then add quickly the stiffened whites of 2 
eggs, beat very hard. Take from fire, pour in wine glass of 
brandy and serve. This pudding is better if made several 
weeks before using. Leave in pan, put in air tight receptacle. 
When wanted for use put covered pan in steamer, same as 
when cooking, and steam about an hour. 

Mrs. James Flanigan. 

MARLBORO HOUSE AMBROSIA. 

One pineapple, 1 cocoanut, 1 quart of strawberries, ^ dozen 
oranges, ^ dozen bananas. Pare and slice the pineapple round 
the fruit. Pare and slice the bananas lengthwise, cutting them 
in strips. Divide the oranges in segments, take off all pith and 
lay in fine sugar. Pare the cocoanut and place in ice water. 
Hull the strawberries and keep them cool. An hour before 
serving prepare as many plates as are to be served. Place first 
the slice of pineapple, sift over this sugar and a small amount 
of the cocoanut, grated. Build a nest of the banana strips, log 
cabin style ; fill with the oranges and strawberries, heaping 
high ; sift over the sugar and grate the cocoanut until white. 
Keep in cold closet until served. Mrs. Guy Magee. 

CUSTARD SOUFFLE. 

Two scant tablespoons of butter, 2 scant tablespoons of 
sugar, 2 scant tablespoons of flour, 1 cup of milk, 4 eggs. Let 
the milk boil. Heat flour and butter together, add to them 
gradually boiling milk. Cook 8 minutes, stirring often. Beat 
sugar and yolks of eggs together, add to the cooked mixture 
and set away to cool. When cool, beat whites of eggs stiff and 
add to the custard. Bake in a buttered pudding dish in a mod- 
erate oven. Serve immediately with cream sauce. 

STEAMED GRAHAM PUDDING. 

One cup molasses, 1 cup Graham flour, 1 cup white flour, 
1 cup sweet milk, 1 cup seeded raisins, 1 cup currants, 1 ^gg, 
1 teaspoonful soda. Steam 2^ hours. Use chopped figs in 
place of raisins and currants if preferred. Mrs. Chas. Wilson. 

82 



BAKED APPLE TAPIOCA. 

Let 1 cupful tapico stand 1 5 minutes in cold water, then pour 
off and add fresh water and let cook until like jelly. Add 1 cup 
sugar, then pour over apples and bake until apples are done. 

PLAIN CANADIAN PLUM PUDDING. 

One and one-half cups bread crumbs, 1 cup grated carrot, 
3 cups flour, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, 2 cups suet, 2i^ cups 
raisins, 1 cup currants, 1 teaspoon soda in 1^/2 cups milk, tea- 
spoon baking powder in flour, 1 cup chopped lemon peel. 1 cup 
chopped dates, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, i^ teaspoon allspice, little 
nutmeg and salt. Steam 4 hours. Use large or small cup for 
measuring, according to size of pudding. 

Mrs. John Pike, Windsor, Ont. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

One quart cream, 4 tablespoonfuls corn starch, 6 tablespoon- 
fuls milk. Sweeten to taste ; flavor with sherry ; cook in double 
boiler till thick. Line the bottom of pudding dish with ^ pound 
of macaroons which have been dipped in sherry and sprinkle 
over them 3/ pound of candied cherries cut in half, or canned 
ones strained drv. When cream is cold pour over. Serve very 
cold. Mrs. G. W. Powell. 

WALNUT SOUFFLE. 

Five eggs, 1 cup granulated sugar, 1 cup powdered sugar, 
1 cup farina, >2 teaspoon baking powder, 1 pound English wal- 
nuts shelled and broken in small pieces. Beat yolks of eggs 
■ and sugar 15 or 20 minutes, add other ingredients and mix 
well. Fold in the whites of eggs last. Bake in moderate oven 
about 30 to 40 minutes. Serve cold with sweetened whipped 
cream, flavored with vanilla. Mrs. L. P. Hurter. 

A DAINTY DESSERT. 

One pint sweet milk in double boiler, 3 yolks eggs beaten 
light, add 3 tablespoonfuls sugar and 1 pinch salt. When milk 
is at boiling point add egg mixture, stir until it thickens, then 
add vanilla to suit taste. Arrange pieces of stale cake in shallow 
dish, pour over the custard and set to cool. Serve as follows : 

93 



3 egg whites beaten and spread over when served ; scatter the 

top with grated cocoanut or blanched shredded almonds. 

Mrs. F. Voigtmann. 

ANGEL PUDDING. 

One pound English walnuts, 9 ounces dates, 7 ounces pow- 
dered sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Chop walnuts and 
dates, add sugar and baking powder; beat whites of 5 eggs, 
add to above and bake y^ hour. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. G. W. Powell. 

TURK'S HEAD PUDDING. 

Three eggs, 2 cups milk, 8 tablespoonfuls flour, (sifted three 
times), little salt. Beat a long time. Bake in moderate oven 1 
hour. Serve hot with sauce. Mrs. C. C. Cobb. 

CARAMEL PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, ^ cup sugar, 3 tablespoons flour (heap- 
ing), 5 eggs — 3 will do. When the milk boils add sugar, yolks 
of eggs and flour to it and thoroughly cook. Add caramel until 
its flavor suits your taste. Salt. Beat whites stiff, add 2 table- 
spoons granulated sugar and when beaten stiff fold in, y^ cup 
chopped English walnuts. Sprinkle caramel over top and 
brown. Eat cold with cream and sugar. Mrs. A. B. Prindle. 

BUTTERMILK PUDDING. 

Cream together 1 cup butter, 2 cups of sugar, add the beaten 
yolks of 6 eggs and beat together well. In another bowl place 
6 tablespoonsof flour and slowly add 1 quart buttermilk. Place 
all together and stir well, then flavor with 1 teaspoonful vanilla 
and the well beaten whites of 6 eggs. Bake the same as custard 
for 40 minutes. Mrs. O. W. Watson. 

JELLIED APPLES. 

Peel and core firm, tart apples, 8 or 10, according to size. 
Put them over the fire in just enough water to cover them and 
sprinkle generously with granulated sugar. Cook slowly until 
tender. Take them out with a split spoon. Place in dish in 
which you wish to serve them. Bring the liquid left from them- 
to a boil and add to it >4 cup of gelatine, which has been soaked 

84 



in a very little water; when this is dissolved pour over the 
apples. Set to cool in ice chest. Serve with cream, plain or 
whipped. Mrs. F. Voigtmann. 

ORANGE FOAM. 
One-half box gelatine, soak in cold water 15 minutes; add 
1 pint boiling water, 2 cups sugar, juice of 4 oranges, juice of 
1 lemon, stir and strain. When thick as syrup add beaten whites 
of 5 eees. Form in small cups and serve with cream. 

^^ Mrs. G. W. Powell. 

DATE SOUFFLE. 
One cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful flour, 1 teaspoon 
baking powder, 1 cup walnuts quartered, 1 cup dates, seeded 
and cut in two. Mix in order written. Baked about >4 hour 
in moderate oven. Serve with whipped cream, sweetened to 
taste, and flavored with vanilla. Mrs. E. C. Noe. 

SUET PUDDING. 
Two and one-half cups of flour, 1 teaspoonful soda, >4 tea- 
spoonful salt, y2 teaspoonful cinnamon, ^^ teaspoonful nut- 
meg, 1 cup chopped suet, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup of milk, 1 cup of 
molasses, 1 cup shelled and blanched almonds, chopped but not 
too fine. Sift soda, salt and spice into flour, then add suet, 
raisins and nuts, mix thoroughly. Then mix milk with mo- 
lasses and add last. Steam 3 hours. Mrs. G. W. Powell. 

RAISIN PUFFS. 
One-half cup butter, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 eggs, 2 cups flour, 
1 cup milk, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 cup raisins 
chopped fine. Steam in small cups >^ hour. 

Mrs. G. W. Powell 

RAISIN PUDDING. 

One-half cup seeded raisins, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 eggs, 3 

tablespoons melted butter, 1 tablespoon sugar, 2 cups sifted 

flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt. Put into 

well buttered mold and steam 1 hour. Serve with sweet sauce. 

Miss Alma Soderberg. 



85 



FRUIT DESSERT. 

Take a large pineapple, cut the top off thick enough to leave 
the pines intact. Scoop out the inside so as to leave only the 
shell. Take the scooped out pineapple and shred from the core. 
Cut one grape fruit in half and scoop out the pulp. Seed 1 
pound of white grapes. Mix fruit and sweeten to taste. Add 
about 1 dozen Maraschino cherries, ^ cup Maraschino liquor, 
y2 cup sherry wine, 1 tablespoon brandy. Put all in pineapple 
shell and cover tight. Place in a very cool place until ready to 
serve, then tie a pretty bow of pink ribbon around the pines be- 
fore sending to table. Mrs. Macquarrie. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

Two eggs, 1 cup molasses, 2 cups flour, 2/3 cup suet, but- 
ter size of walnut, 1 cup sour milk, 1 teaspoonful soda, ^2 tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, ^ teaspoonful allspice, 1 cup seeded raisins, 
54 teaspoonful salt. Steam 1 hour. Serve with cream. 

Mrs. Emma Bissell. 

BLUEBERRY PUDDING. 

One heaping tablespoonful butter, 1 cup sugar, rub to cream 
with butter, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder in 2 cups flour, 2 
eggs, pinch of salt, 1 cup milk, 1 quart blueberries. Flour ber- 
ries before putting them into batter. Steam 2 hours. Serve 
with hard sauce. Christine Munson. 



MACAROON OMELET. 

(For Sunday night supper.) 
Six eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls water, pinch salt, 6 macaroons, 
rolled into coarse crumbs, 1 large spoonful flour, 3^ teaspoon- 
ful baking powder. Mix baking powder with flour and grad- 
ually add water and unbeaten eggs. Beat well, add salt and 
macaroons. Fry slowly in hot butter and when almost done 
put under broiler to make it puff up. Remove carefully and 
sprinkle powdered sugar over it and garnish with eighths of 
lemons and a large spoonful of currants or raspberry or straw- 
berry jelly. The lemon is to be squeezed over omelet if liked. 

Mrs. N. E. Johnson. 

S6 



ORANGE GELATINE (FINE). 

Soak Yo box Plymouth Rock gelatine in 1 cup cold water. 
When dissolved add 1 cup boiling water. Take juice of 6 
oranges and 1 lemon, the rind of 1 orange and part of the lemon 
rind and 3 cups of sugar. Stir up well, but do not put on the 
fire. Add the gelatine. Let cool, then for 15 minutes beat into 
it the whites of 3 eggs (beaten). Serve in sherbet cups with 
whipped cream.. In warm weather prepare the day before 
using. Mrs. Howard Robinson. 

FARINA PUDDING. • 

Two ounces of butter, 3 tablespoons of farina, 1^^ pint of 
boiling milk, 5 eggs, 5 tablespoons of sugar, grated rind of 1 
lemon. Melt the butter, mix the farina with it, add the boiling 
milk, cook this to a thick mush. When cool take the yolks of 
the eggs, sugar, grated rind of lemon, whites of eggs, well 
beaten, and mix all well together. Butter a pudding dish, flour 
it over and pour in the pudding. Place in a pan of boiling 
water. Bake 1 hour. Sauce : Yolks of 2 eggs, 4 tablespoons 
of sugar, Y pound of butter. Cream butter and sugar together, 
add the eggs, and let it simmer a few minutes. It is best made 
in a bowl and placed in hot water. Mrs. August Heuer, Jr. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

One-third box of Cox's gelatine, dissolved in a tea cup of 
milk, 1 quart of double cream, whipped stiff, 3 eggs, 1 tea cup 
of sugar. Mix the yolks of the eggs, well-beaten, with the milk 
and gelatine, then add the sugar. Pour into the whipped cream, 
without cooking, then add the whites of the eggs, well-beaten, 
and flavor with vanilla, rum or sherry wine. Then pour into 
moulds lined with lady fingers, and put in a cold place. Dis- 
solve the milk and gelatine by heating and stirring. 

Mrs. Edward Fallon. 

APPLE COBBLER. 

Slice 6 or 8 good tart apples in a 3 quart tin pan and add 1 
cup of sugar, 1 heaping teaspoon of butter, enough hot water 
to not quite cover the apples (many other fruits are equally 
good). Crust for Cobler: 2 cups of sifted flour, sift again 

«7 



with 2 heaping teaspoons of baking powder, 1 cup of milk, a 
pinch of salt. Mix well with a spoon and drop on top of the 
appless, leaving a hole in the centre for the steam to come 
through. Cover tight and do not remove the cover until done. 
Set where it will boil very slowly ^ of an hour. Use hard 
sauce or cream and sugar as preferred. (This same receipt, 
with i^ cup more flour, makes a delicious dumpling for pot pie.) 

Miss Emma Butler. 



GINGER APPLES. 

Two apples (greenings or other hard apples), 1 pound sugar, 

3 cupfuls water, 1 slice lemon, ^ stick cinnamon, %. pound 
candied ginger. Make a syrup of sugar, water, ginger, lemon 
and cinnamon. Pare apples with silver knife and throw in cold 
water to preserve color. Put syrup in a small stone crock and 
whole apples in syrup. Bake in a slow oven, turning occasion- 
ally, until tender and transparent. Serve cold with a large 
spoonful of whipped cream. Mrs. N. E. Johnson. 

PUDDING DIPLOMATE. 

(A La Tanty.) 
Two ounces Malaga grapes, 2 ounces Sultana grapes, 2 
ounces Corinth grapes, 2 ounces candied orange or lemon peel, 

4 ounces stale lady fingers, 4 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 
tablespoon cornstarch, 1 pint milk, 1 tablespoonful rum. Place 
alternate rows of fruit and lady fingers in a mold (buttered) 
beginning with fruit and ending with lady fingers. Mix the 
remaining ingredients and pour over the whole. Place in 
steamer and steam for two hours. Serve with a Sambayon 
sauce. Mrs. N. E. Johnson. 



BATTER PUDDING. 

Scald 1 quart of milk. Add 3 tablespoons of butter, 5 table- 
spoons of flour rubbed together. Cook until thick. When cool 
add yolks of 12 eggs and 6 tablespoons of sugar. Then fold in 
the whites of 12 eggs, which have been beaten stifif. Flavor 
and bake in moderate oven. Serve with hard sauce. 

Miss Drake. 

88 



QUEEN OF CUSTARDS. 
Put one pint of new milk in double boiler, sweetened to 
taste Beat 4 eggs verv light and add to milk. Cook until a 
thick coating covers the spoon and set aside to cool. Dissolve 
1/ box of gelatine and add to custard when it begins to cool 
After it begins to congeal, add ^4 pound of candied cherries and 
y. pound of candied pineapple. A quarter pound of alrnonds 
blanched and chopped. Stir all these into custard Add 1 pint 
of whipped cream and put into a mold to freeze. A pint of rich 
cream whipped stiff and added to custard, improves it very 
much ' Serve with hot sauce. Sauce : One pint of brown 
sugar y2 pint of water, 1 heaping tablespoon of butter, and 
wine from maraschino cherries. Flavor with whiskey. Cook 
until thick. Slice the pudding and pour sauce over it, or you 
can serve with whipped cream. It is better with sauce. 

Miss Jennie A. Drake. 

HARTFORD PUDDING. 

One cup stale bread crumbs, 1 cup chopped suet, 1 cup coffee 
A sugar, 1 cup flour, 1 cup sour milk, 1 teaspoonful of soda, 1 
nutmeg grated, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 1 pound of raisms. 
Steam three hours. Delicious and cheap. Serve with hot 
sauce. ^''' ^^«^^- 

CARAMEL TAPIOCA. 

Soak 1 cupful tapioca in 2 cupfuls cold water. Cook until 
transparent, adding more water if necessary. Then add 1 cup 
of browned sugar, a good pinch of salt and butter size of an 
ees Bake about 30 minutes. Serve with whipped cream, 
sweetened and flavored. Mrs. C. A. Burton. 

AUNT HELEN'S SUET PUDDING. 
One cup of suet chopped fine, a pinch of salt, 1 cup of New 
Orleans molasses, >^ teaspoon soda in molasses, 1 cup milk,^ 
cups flour (no more), 2 cups raisins, chopped. Boil m mold 
3 hours. Sauce : 1 cup butter. 2 cups granulated sugar 
(creamed), 2 eggs beaten stiff. Mix eggs and creamed butter 
and sugar and put into a double boiler. Stir occasionally till 
it foams Tnst before serving add brandy, vanilla and nutmeg, 
6 tablespoons of boiling water. In winter you can keep this 
pudding in the mold any length of time. Lucta C. Beebe, 

89 



DELICIOUS PLUM PUDDING. 

One cupful beef suet chopped fine and smooth, 1 cupful fine 
cracker crumbs, 1 cupful sifted bread crumbs, 1 cupful raisins, 
1 cupful currants, 1 cupful almonds chopped coarse, 1 cupful 
candied or preserved cherries, 1 cupful candied orange, lemon 
and citron mixed, 1 cupful flour with 1 teaspoonful baking 
powder, 1 cupful molasses, 1 cupful grape juice, 1 cupful sugar, 
1 cupful apples, chopped, 4 eggs, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful grated nutmeg. Soak raisins, cur- 
rants and almonds in hot water. Rub skins off almonds and 
chop. Dry raisins and currants on back of stove. Shave 
orange peel, lemon peel and citron fine (do not chop). Mix 
fruit, nuts and candied cherries with flour. Set aside. Chop 
suet fine, add cracker crumbs, bread crumbs and molasses, 
sugar, apples, grape juice, spices, and well-beaten eggs. 
Pour into a well-buttered mold and boil five hours. After 
boiling remove lid of mold and dry well on back of stove 
or in a slow oven before putting away for Christmas day. 
Steam for at least 1 hour when ready to serve and pour over 
it 1 cupful of rum and a little granulated sugar and light it up. 
Do not forget the holly for center. Serve with foaming sauce. 

Mrs. N. E. Johnson. 

RICE SOUFFLE. 
Wash y2 cup rice and let cook for about 3 hours in double 
boiler with a quart of milk and 1 teaspoon salt, and when cold 
whip 1 pint of cream and stir all together. Put in a mold and 
let get cold. Serve with hot raspberry or any other red fruit 
sauce. Mrs. Geo. E. Watson. 

CARAMEL APPLES. 
Six nice red apples. Take out core and fill with light brown 
sugar; also spread sugar over them. One teacup of water. 
Bake until done. Elinor Ericksen. 

MARSHMALLOW CREAMS. 
This quick dessert is both dainty and delicious, but must be 
prepared while the substantial part of the meal is being eaten, 
and served at once. Provide 2 dozen good marshmallows and 
make 1 dozen sandwiches of them by placing ^ teaspoonful of 
some jam (strawberry preferable) between two marshmal- 

90 



lows. Place these in a baking pan and set in a very hot oven a 

moment until they pnff. Take out, put 2 of the sandwiches on 
a small plate, for one service, covering- with a tablespoonful of 
whipped cream and a bit of jam on top. Ida S. Dozvns. 

Figs stuffed with English walnuts or pecan meats are de- 
licious. Ida S. Downs. 

ROLLED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Make a rich baking powder biscuit dough, roll it out in a 
sheet less than Yz an inch thick (as thin as it can be handled 
well). Cover thickly with chopped apples and roll up as com- 
pactly as possible. Now cut this roll into sections, nearly 2 
inches thick, placing these in a granite dripping pan. Mix 1 
dessertspoonful of flour through 1 cupful of sugar, add a little 
more than one cupful of cold water, and cook 10 minutes. 
Pour this over the dumplings (ladle it over them with a spoon), 
grate a little nutmeg over them or sprinkle them with allspice, 
and bake to a good biscuit brown. Serve with cream, plenty of 
it, and sugar, or with hard sauce. The Greening apple is to be 
relied upon. Ida S. Downs. 

SHERRY WINE JELLY. 
One-half package gelatine, >^ cup cold water, y^ cup boiling 
water, 1 cup sugar, ^4 cup lemon juice, 1 cup sherry wine, 1>^ 
tablespoonfuls iDrandy. Soak gelatine in cold water 10 min- 
utes. Pour on boiling water and stir. Add sugar, lemon 
juice, wine and brandy. Stir until sugar is dissolved. Strain 
into jelly mold and cool. Serve alone or with whipped cream, 
or rich custard. Ida S. Downs, 



PUDDING SAUCES. 

What's the Pudding without the Sauce? 

WHIPPED CREAM SAUCE. 

One cup cream, 1 teaspoon ful lemon or vanilla, ^ cup pow- 
dered sugar, white of 1 ^gg. Mix the cream, vanilla and sugar 
and whip it without skimming off the froth. Add the beaten 
white of the tgg and beat all together. Serve it on any pudding 
usually eaten with sugar and cream. 

91 



FOAMY SAUCE. 

One-half cup of butter, 1 cup powdered sugar, 1 teaspoonful 
vanilla, 2 tablespoonfuls wine or fruit juice, % cup boiling 
water, white of 1 ^gg beaten to a foam. Cream the butter, add 
the sugar, vanilla and wine. Just before serving add the boil- 
ing water, stir well, then add the Qgg, and beat till foamy. 

CREAMY SAUCE FOR CHRISTMAS PUDDING. 

One-half cup butter, 1 cup powdered sugar, %. cup cream, 4 
tablespoons sherry wine. Beat the butter to a cream, add sugar 
slowly, beating all the time. When smooth and light add the 
wine gradually, then the cream, a little at a time. When well 
beaten place in double boiler and stir over fire until the sauce 
is smooth and creamy. Mrs. R. W. Murison. 

SAUCE FOR STEAMED FRUIT PUDDINGS. 

One-half cup of butter, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 egg, cream 
these together. Put in a dish and pour over a little hot water, 
about a tablespoonful. Flavor with one teaspoonful lemon ex- 
tract. Place over a dish of hot water and let it steam. 

Mrs. Lewis. 

HARD SAUCE (FOR HOT PUDDINGS). 

One-fourth cup butter, ^ cup powdered sugar, ^ teaspoon- 
ful lemon or vanilla or a little nutmeg. Rub the butter to a 
cream in a warm bowl. Add the sugar gradually, then the 
flavoring. 

WINE SAUCE. 

One cup boiling water, 1 tablespoonful cornstarch, % cup of 
butter, 1 cup powdered sugar, 1 egg, 1 saltspoon grated nut- 
meg, ^ cup wine. Wet the cornstarch in cold water and stir 
into the boiling water. Boil 10 minutes. Rub the butter to a 
cream, add the sugar gradually, then the egg, well-beaten, and 
nutmeg. When the cornstarch has cooked 10 minutes add the 
wine and pour the whole into the butter, sugar and egg, stir- 
ring until well mixed. Half a cup of jelly melted in ^ of a cup 
of boiling water and poured into a butter and sugar mixture 
makes a pleasing variety. 

92 



CARAMEL SAUCE. 

Put Vi a cup of sugar in an omelet pan and stir over the fire 
until melted and a light brown color. Add /2 cup of boilmg 
water and simmer 10 minutes. 

FOAMING SAUCE. 
Two cupfuls sugar, 1 teaspoonful flour, 3 tablespoonfuls but- 
ter 2 eess 1 cupful water, 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Cream sugar, 
flour and butter well and add beaten yolks Place bowl in a pan 
of boiling water and gradually add 1 cupful water. Stir well. 
When ready to serve add 1 teaspoonful vanilla and beaten 
whites on top. When serving mix whites with rest of sauce. 
^ Mrs. N. E. Johnson. 

SAMBAYON SAUCE. 
Two yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful cornstarch 2 tablespoon- 
fuls su/ar, 1 tablespoonful rum, 1 cupful milk, 1 cupful cream. 
Mix cornstarch with cold milk, add sugar and beaten yolks 
Cook until it thickens. Add cream, reniove from fire. Add 
rum, and serve. ^rs. N. E. Johnson. 



CAKE. 



'7/ you zvoiild have delicious cake, 

The greatest care, friend, you must take; 

Both hozv you mix and how you bake." 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

Two cups pulverized sugar, Ya cup butter, 1 cup milk 1 cup 
hickory nut meats, whites of 4 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powde'r, flour to make rather stiff. Flavor with vanilla. Put 
it together with boiled frosting. 

LEMON FILLING FOR CAKE. 
One cup pulverized sugar, 1 egg, mixed well together ; juice 
and rind of 1 lemon; 1 cup boiling water Cook in double 
boiler and thicken with 1 large tablespoonful cornstarch. 



93 



CUP CAKES. 

One cup of sugar, ^ cup of butter, 2 eggs, 1 cup sweet milk, 
2 cups flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 teaspoonful 
vanilla or lemon extract. Stir sugar and butter to a cream, add 
beaten eggs, then the milk, and flour and baking powder sifted 
together. Add flavoring. Bake in hot buttered muffin rings in 
hot oven. 

ICING FOR CAKES. 

One cup sugar and 3 large spoonfuls cold water. Boil until 
it hardens when dropped in cold water. Add beaten white of 

I egg and flavor with lemon or vanilla. Beat until it begins 
to stiflFen. Mrs. E. H. Reed. 

SCRIPTURE CAKE. 

Four and one-half cups of I Kings 4:22, 1^ cups Judges 
5:25 (last clause), 2 cups Jeremiah 6:20 (sugar), 2 cups I 
Samuel 30:12 (raisins), 2 cups Naham 3:12, 1 cup Numbers 
17:8, 2 tablespoonfuls of I Samuel 14:25. Season to taste of 

II Chronicles 9:9, 6 of Jeremiah 17:11, a pinch of Leviticus 
2:13, ^ cup of Judges 4:19 (last clause), 2 teaspoonfuls of 
Amos 4:5 (baking powder). Follow Solomon's prescription 
for making a good boy. Proverbs 23:14, and you will have a 
good cake. 

LEBKUCHEN. 

Two quarts molasses, 1 quart cream, 2 pounds brown sugar, 
^ pound citron, Yz pound lemon peel, ^ pound almonds or 
hickory nuts, 2 tablespoons soda, grated lemon peel of 2 lemons, 
cinnamon, nutmeg and allspice to taste. Let molasses, sugar and 
butter melt together (not boil). Cool and add cream. Add 
flour, but not too much. Mold out and bake. May let batter 
stand over night. Mrs. August Heiier, Jr. 

LAYER CAKE. 

Two cups sugar — 1 powdered and 1 granulated, }4 cup but- 
ter ; mix these with hand : ^ cup cold water, whites of 6 eggs, 
beaten stiff. Add gradually 3 cups flour. Beat all well, then 
add 3 level teaspoons of baking powder placed in sifter with 1 

94 



tablespoon of flour. Sift this in and beat the cake only to mix 
the powder through. Do not beat hard after adding the baking 
powder. Mrs. Neisbrod, Cincinnati, Ohio. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Three eggs, 1 cup sugar, 4 tablespoons boiling water, ^ cup 
of flour, vanilla flavoring, 1 teaspoon baking powder. Bake in 
jelly tins. Whipped cream filling. Mrs. J. B. Pike. 

BLACK CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cu]) butter. 2 cups pulverized sugar, 2^ cups (scant) 
flour, 1 cup milk, 5 eggs beaten separately, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, 1 cake Baker's vanilla chocolate grated and put in 
just before the flour. Filling: y2 cake Baker's vanilla choco- 
late, 1 cup sugar, 4 tablespoons milk. Put in double boiler. 
When hot add 1 well-beaten egg and let boil 20 minutes. When 
cool add 1 cocoanut, grated. 

Mrs. Robertson, Buffalo, Nezv York. 

TUTTI FRUTTI CAKE. 

Bake white cake in three layers. Cook as a custard 1 cup 
thin cream, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful cornstarch, mixed 
with milk, a pinch of salt, 2 tablespoonfuls granulated sugar. 
When cold add 1 teaspoonful vanilla, }^ cupful nut meats, ^ 
cupful mixed crystallized fruit. Spread between cake layers. 

COCOA CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 3 eggs (whites beaten sep- 
arately- ), 6 tablespoons Baker's Cocoa, }i cup milk, 1 tablespoon 
vanilla, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1^ cups bread flour; or, 
2 cups pastry flour ; a pinch of salt. Add whites of eggs last, 
well beaten. Mrs. Williams, Waukegan, III. 

POTATO CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, ^ cups butter, 5 eggs, 1 cake of sweet 
chocolate (grated), yo pound chopped almonds (blanched), 1 
cup of boiled potatoes (well mashed), 2 cups of flour, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon each of mace and cinnamon. 
Bake in a loaf. Mrs. Voightmann. 

95 



HAZEL NUT TORTE. 

Yolks of 6 eggs, stirred light, with 6 tablespoons of pow- 
dered sugar, 6 tablespoons grated hazel nuts, 2 teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. Beat the whites of eggs to froth and beat 
in batter. Bake in layers. Cream for Same: 1 pint rich 
cream, whipped, and 5 sticks sweet chocolate, 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. Lillian L. Binz. 

HASTY APPLE COFFEE CAKE. 

One-half cup granulated sugar, J4 cup butter, 2 eggs, a gen- 
erous cup of sweet milk, 2^/^ cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, flavor with lemon. This will make two oblong cakes 
or three the size of ordinary layer cakes. Cover evenly with 
sliced apples (or peaches when in season). Sprinkle with 
sugar and bits of butter ; cinnamon and nuts, chopped, may be 
added. Mrs. Voightmann. 

MOCHA CAKE, 

One cup sugar, 2 eggs separated and beaten well, 1 cup flour, 
1 teaspoon baking powder in the flour. After all beaten, add 
lA cup boiling milk with 1 teaspoonful butter in it. A little 
vanilla. Bake in 2 layers. Filling : 1 cup powdered sugar, % 
cup butter beaten together, 2 tablespoonfuls strong coffee, 2 
level teaspoons of cocoa, a little vanilla. Spread between lay- 
ers and on top. Mrs. George Brown, 18 Francis St. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Twelve eggs beaten separately, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 
1 cup molasses, 3 cups flour (unsifted), 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, 2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon, 2 teaspoonfuls allspice, 1 tea- 
spoonful cloves, 2 nutmegs ground, 3 pounds currants and 2 
pounds raisins (prepare and dry day before making), ^ pound 
citron, % pound orange peel, small piece of candied pineapple, 
a few candied cherries, all sliced very fine ; ^ pound chopped 
figs. Ten cents' worth each almonds and walnut meats, also a 
few hickory nuts if desired. Wine glass of either rum or 
brandy. In mixing take a little of the 3 cups of flour and 
mix with fruits. Mix thoroughly and add whites of eggs last. 
Steam 5 hours, then dry in oven. Will make four quarts. 

Mrs. G. W. Powell 

96 



PINK MARBLED CAKE. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 3 cups flour, 
y2 cup pink sugar, whites of 5 eggs, 2 teaspoons baking pow- 
der. Take a part of the white batter and add Yi cup pmk sugar. 
Pour a laver of the white batter into the baking pan, then drop 
the pink batter with a spoon in spots and spread the remainder 
of the white batter over it. Flavor with lemon. Marbled 
Chocolate Cake can be made by the above recipe by adding 5 
tablespoons grated chocolate. Moisten with milk and flavor 
with vanilla to a cup of white batter instead of pmk sugar. 

Mrs. Geo. E. Watson. 

ORANGE CAKE. 
One-half cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 3^ cups 
flour 4 eggs, 2 level teaspoons cream tartar and 1 of soda. 
Bake in layers. This quantity is for 4 layers. Filling : White 
of one Qgg beaten stif¥, 1 cup powdered sugar, juice of 1 
orange and grated rind of 2. 

WALNUT CAKE. 
One cup sugar, >^ cup butter, Yi cup sweet milk, 2 eggs, 2 
teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, 1 teaspoonful soda, 1>4 cups 
flour or 2 cups pastry flour (scant), 1 pound English walnuts. 
Save 16 halves, chop the rest of the nuts fine and sprinkle with 
a little flour ; stir into cake and bake. Frost with white frost- 
ing and put halves of nuts on top. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE. 
Cream together 1 cup sugar and half cup butter, add a little 
salt, Y teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, a little nutmeg, 
1 cup raisins. Dissolve 1 teaspoon soda in a little warm water 
and stir into it 1 cup of unsweetened apple sauce. Let this 
foam over the ingredients in the mixing bowl. Beat thoroughly 
and add 2 cups flour. Bake in a loaf about 1 hour. 

Miss Bailey, Maiden, Mass. 

ENGLISH FRUIT CAKE. 
(A delicious wedding cake.) 
Three pounds each of dates, currants and raisins, 1 pound 
citron, 1 pound candied cherries, 1 pound blanched almonds, 3 



97 



pounds of eggs (9 eggs make 1 pound), Sj^ pounds flour, 2% 
pounds butter, Ij/^ pounds brown sugar, 1 cup molasses, 2 nut- 
megs, 1 heaping tablespoonful soda, 1 heaping tablespoonful 
cinnamon. Bake in moderate oven 5 hours. Half the quan- 
tity will make three good-sized loaves. 

Miss Bailey, Maiden, Mass, 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One and one-half squares chocolate, 1-3 cup sugar, ^ cup 
milk, ^ teaspoon vanilla, yolk of 1 Qgg beaten. Put all to- 
gether in bowl and dissolve over tea kettle. Stir until smooth. 
One-fourth cup butter, ^ cup sugar, % cup milk, 1 tgg, Yz 
teaspoon saleratus, 1 cup flour. Then add chocolate mixture 
and a little more flour. Mix well together and bake in a slow 
oven. 

HARRISON CAKE. 

One cup butter, 1 cup light brown sugar, 3 eggs, ^ cup 
molasses, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup milk, 4 cups of flour, nutmeg, 
1 cup raisins and Yz cup currants. 

NUT CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, 2 cups flour, whites of 4 eggs, Vt. cup 
sugar, y^ cup water, 1 cup nut kernels, 1 teaspoon baking pow- 
der. Beat butter and sugar to cream. Then add water and 
flour. Stir until smooth. Add half well-beaten eggs. Then 
nuts. Then the remainder of whites and baking powder. Pour 
into square flat tins lined with buttered paper to the depth of 
3 inches. Bake in moderate oven 45 minutes. 

Mrs. Homer Glidden. 



PORK CAKE. 

Chop fine 1 cup of pork, add 1 cup hot water, 1 cup brown 
sugar, 1 cup molasses, 4j4 cups flour, 1 teaspoonful soda dis- 
solved in a little water, 1 teaspoonful each of cloves, nutmeg 
and cinnamon, y^ pound raisins, currants, and piece citron. 
Bake 1^ hours. This makes 2 loaves. 

Miss Bailey, Maiden, Mass. 

98 



MOTHER'S POUND CAKE. 

Three eggs, 1^ cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 2^^ cups flour, 
scant y2 cup milk, heaping teaspoon baking powder. Flavor 
with nutmeg. Beat butter, sugar and eggs slightly. Add other 
ingredients and m.ix lightly. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Mrs, Geo. E. Watson. 

MARION CAKE. 

Two-thirds of a cup of butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, I/2 cup 
milk, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon cream tartar in flour, 3^ teaspoon 
soda dissolved in a little water. Flavor with vanilla. Chop 
walnuts, put on top of cake, and then bake. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, 2 cups flour, lA cup cold water, yolks 5 
eggs, whites 3, the juice and grated rind of one orange, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder. Beat the yolks very light, then add 
sugar and water. After beating thoroughly then add other 
ingredients. Stir in lightly beaten whites lastly. Bake in layer 
tins and make a cream filling flavored with grated rind of an 
orange. Mrs. Geo. E. Watson. 

TIPSY CAKE. 

One sponge cake (baker's sponge cake), 1 glass currant jelly, 
1 glass sherry wine, 5^2 pint whipping cream. 1 pint custard. 
Split sponge cake and pour wine over it until all the wine is 
absorbed. Spread the jelly between the layers. Whip the 
cream until stiff, sweeten and flavor with vanilla, and spread 
on top of cake. Serve with custard. 

Custard — Make a soft custard of 1 pint milk and the yolks 
of three eggs. Flavor with vanilla and serve very cold. 

Mrs. D. O. Macquarrie. 

DROP CAKE. 

Two eggs, 1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons flour, 2 teaspoons bak- 
ing powder. Beat all together, then add 1 cup dates seeded, 1 
cup walnuts broken in half. Bake about 20 minutes or until 
it drops. , ^^^ ^ Mrs. Weber. 

99 



FRENCH CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Make a caramel of 2 squares of chocolate, 1 cup of sugar, 
y2 cup of sweet milk and yolk of 1 ^^'g. Boil until it thickens, 
then set away to cool. Cream 1 cup sugar with 2/3 cups but- 
ter, add 2 well-beaten eggs, then 1 cup of milk, 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. Add the cooled chocolate, and lastly 2 cups of flour 
with 2 teaspoons baking powder. Bake in 3 layers. Put to- 
gether with any good white frosting. 



POUND CAKE. 

Yolks of 10 eggs, whites of two (well beaten), 1 pound of 
butter, 1 pound of sugar, 1 pound flour, 1^ teaspoonfuls bak- 
ing powder. Add flour and whites of eggs last. 

Mrs, E. J. Bowes. 

CARAMEL CAKE. 

One-half cake Baker's chocolate melted with ^ cup milk, 
yolk of 1 ^gg, 1 cup sugar. Cook until smooth. Let this cool 
while you mix 1 cup sugar. Yz cup butter, 2 eggs, ^ cup milk, 

2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Flavor with vanilla. 
Add the chocolate and bake in layers. 

Inside Filling — Whites of 2 eggs, same amount of water. 
Beat to a froth. Add 2 pounds confectioner's sugar till very 
thick. Spread >4 inch thick. 

Outside Coating — One-half cake chocolate, 1 cup sugar, y^ 
cup milk. Flavor with vanilla and boil until creamy and pour 
over cake. Mrs. Slayton. 

MARSHMALLOW CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, l^^ cups granulated sugar, 1 cup milk, 

3 cups flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder, whites of 6 eggs, 1 
teaspoon vanilla flavoring. Filhng: Dissolve 5 tablespoons 
gum arabic in a gill of cold water ; then stir in y^ cup pow- 
dered sugar and boil all together without stirring until a little 
dropped in cold water can be rolled into a soft ball between the 
fingers. Have ready beaten the white of an egg. Strain the 
syrup into it, beating all the time. Add 1 teaspoon vanilla, 
also. When well blended spread on cake. Mrs. Horn. 

100 



BLUEBERRY CAKE. 

One tablespoon butter, 2/3 cup sugar, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, 2 cups blueberries, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 2 eggs. 
Mix as for any cake, adding the blueberries last, floured well. 

JAM CAKE. 
Two cups dark brown sugar, 2/3 cup butter, >4 cup sour 
cream or milk, >^ cup any kind milk, 2 cups flour, 3 eggs, y2 
teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 even teaspoon soda. 
Bake in lavers and put together with icing. 

Mrs. Harriet Morse. 

POTATO CAKE. 
Beat together 2 cups of granulated sugar and 2/4 cup butter 
to a cream, then add 5 eggs beaten light and >4 teaspoon salt 
i^ cup milk, 1 cake sweet chocolate (grated), 3^ pound 
blanched almonds, 1 cup boiled grated potatoes, 2^^ cups 
flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder and 1 teaspoonful of cmna- 
mon, allspice and cloves. Bake in deep pan in moderate oven. 

Lilliam L. Bins. 

BANANA CAKE. 
Three eggs, not quite jA cup of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of but- 
ter, 1 tablespoonful of milk and 2 of boiling water, 1 teaspoon- 
ful' soda and 2 of cream of tartar. One cup of flour sifted five 
times. Bake in lavers. Filling : Take a cup of sugar and % 
of a cup of water. ' Boil until it "hairs." Pour on to the beaten 
whites of two eggs. Add three bananas well crushed. Beat 
well and spread between lavers, top and sides. 

Mrs. J. S. Johns, Owen Sound, Canada. 

BLUEBERRY CAKE. 
One and a half cups of flour, 1 cup sugar, >^ cup milk, 1/3 
cup of butter, 2 eggs, 1 pint blueberries, ^^ teaspoonful nutmeg 
and cinnamon, IJA teaspoonfuls baking powder. Flour berries 
before putting into cake. Mrs. A. B. Clayton. 

The following recipe of wedding cake is the one used for 
many years by the confectioner to Queen Victoria. It was 
made for all the marriages in the royal family and sent often 

101 



as a gift from Victoria to other royal households. Some time 
before her death she pensioned this maker of cakes. The room 
in which the cake is kept has an even temperature of 60 de- 
grees. Twice a year the cake is tested and remoistened with 
brandy. This is quite a ceremon}^ and often attended bv mem- 
bers of the royal family. The frosting and ornamentation is 
not put on till the cake is ordered. The last cake Queen Vic- 
toria ordered was seven feet high. 

THE QUEEN'S WEDDING CAKE. 

Twelve eggs, 1>< pounds of white sugar, 1 pound of butter, 
1 cup of brown sugar, 1 pound of flour, 1 pound of almonds, 2 
pounds of citron, 4 pounds of raisins, 2 pounds of currants, 1 
nutmeg, 2 spoonfuls of cloves, 2 spoonfuls of cinnamon, 1 quart 
of brandy, Vo cup of boiled milk. The almonds must be 
blanched and cut in strips ; the raisins seeded ; the citron 
sliced ; the currants washed and dried the day previous to the 
mixing. The flour, sugar and almonds are dried and slightly 
browned in a slow oven ; the eggs must be separated and 
beaten stiff; the butter and sugar must be beaten till creamy, 
then add flour and eggs alternately, then milk and spices — then 
with a wooden spatular beat in the fruit, add 1 pint of brandy, 
and cook four hours in an evenly heated oven. The pan 
should be raised from the bottom of oven. After the cake is 
baked and cold turn over it the remaining pint of brandy. 
Wrap in parafline paper and box. Once a year the cake should 
be removed from box and another pint of brandy poured over 
it. It will keep and grow better for several years. 

Mrs. Guy Magee. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Two eggs, 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of flour (heaping), ^ cup 
of boiling milk, lA teaspoonful of soda, 1 teaspoonful cream of 
tartar, ^ teaspoonful of vanilla, a pinch of salt. Drop the 
yolks of eggs in a bowl without beating, stir in the sugar, a little 
at a time, until all is fine and creamy. Then pour on the boil- 
ing milk, then the flour with the soda and cream of tartar; 
lastly fold in the whites very lightly. Bake in a rather quick 
oven. Miss Grace Brown, Portsmouth, N. H. 

102 



DAYTON CAKE. 
One cup of butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 cups of flour, 5 eggs, >4 
cup cream, y. teasponful dry soda, 1 teaspoonful cream of 
tartar Mix butter and sugar, add cream and cream of tartar 
then the eggs alternately with the flour; ^ teaspoonful of 
vanilla ; add soda the last thing. ., a, rr 

Miss Grace Brown, Portsmouth, N. ti. 

POUND CAKE. 

One pound pulverized sugar, ^/i pound butter, 1 pound flour, 
9 e^^s (whites and volks beaten separately), K teaspoon soda 
dissolved in very little milk. Cream the butter and sugar with 
the hands, then add yolks, then the flour, and lastly the whites 
of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 

Mrs. Dan Cowles, Gloversville, N. Y. 

SOUR CREAM NUT CAKE. 

Two eggs, 1 cup granulated sugar, i^ cup rich sour cream, 
1/2 teaspoon soda, 1 heaping cup sifted flour. Bake in two lay- 
ers Filling for Nut Cake : Boil 1 cup sugar in 2 tablespoons 
of water until it hairs. Add beaten whites of 2 eggs. When 
cool flavor with extract of lemon. Spread on cake and cover 
with chopped hickory nuts or English walnuts. 

Mrs. Genevieve Bookzvalter. 

SOFT GINGER CAKE. 

One-half cup of sugar, ^ cup of butter, 2 cups of flour, 1 
cup of molasses, 2 eggs, ^^ cup raisins, >4 teaspoon of baking 
soda, 1 cup of boiling water, 1 teaspoon of gmger, a little 
ground cloves. Stir water in cake slowly, the last thing. Bake 
in slow oven. Mrs. H. S. Hams. 

MAPLE SUGAR FROSTING. 

One cup maple sugar, 5 tablespoonfuls cold water. Boil 
until it threads. Pour over the beaten white of 1 egg, beat 
a few minutes. 

103 



CHOCOLATE FILLING. 

One package of chocolate grated, 1>^ cups of milk and 
water mixed, }4 cup of powdered sugar. Boil 5 minutes in a 
double boiler. Stir constantly. Remove from fire, add 1 table- 
spoonful of vanilla. Mrs. A. G. Drake. 

SEED CAKE. 

Ten eggs, 10 ounces of butter, 1 pound blanched almonds, 
y2 pound citron peel, 3/ pound orange, 3^ pound lemon, 1 
pound coffee sugar, 1 pound flour, 8 drops oil of cinnamon, 10 
drops of lemon. Beat the whites and yolks separate and the 
butter and sugar together. Beat it well before putting in the 
tin. Mrs. J. S. Johns, Canada. 

WILBUR CAKE. 

One cup coffee sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 cups flour, 1 cup 
currants, 1 cup raisins, ^ cup molasses, 4 tablespoons butter, 
1 ^gg, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, a little cloves, 1 scant teaspoon 
soda. L^se boiled icing or the chocolate icing by the following 
rule: ^ cup cocoa, y2 cup milk, IVi cup sugar, yolk of 1 tgg. 
Boil until a jelly. Emma D. Rathhun. 

CAKE. 

Two eggs beaten separately, 1 cup of powdered sugar, 2 
^even cups of flour, 2 heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
1^ cups of milk. Bake in quick, hot oven in layers. Any 
filling can be used. 

MOCHA TART. 

One coffee cup of granulated sugar, 5 eggs, beat yolks and 
sugar till very light, 1^^ tablespoonfuls Mocha extract, 1 
coffee cup well-sifted flour with 1 teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der. Beat whites of eggs to a froth and add last. Put in three 
tins and bake from 5 to 8 minutes in a quick oven. 

Filling — y? pint cream whipped stiff, sugar to taste, 1^ 
tablespoonfuls Mocha extract. 

Icing — One cup confectioners' sugar, 1^ tablespoonfuls 
Mocha extract. Stir well and add a little water' at a time till 
right to smear. Mrs. Macquarrie. 

104 



DROP CAKE. 

Beat together 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 2 teaspoons baking pow- 
der, 2 tablespoons flour, 1 cup dates and 1 cup walnuts chopped 
together. Bake in slow oven until cake drops. Cut in strips 
when nearly cold. This is very fine. Lilian L. Bins. 



DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE. 

Part T — One cup brown sugar, 1 cup grated chocolate, ^ 
cup milk. Set on stove in double boiler until all is dissolved, 
but do not boil. When cold stir into part second. 

Part 2 — One cup brown sugar, small ^ cup butter, yolk of 3 
eggs, y2 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda sifted into 
flour. Bake in layers and frost with cream frosting. 

Mrs. Seymour Jones. 

ITALIAN CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two cups granulated sugar, 2/3 cup of butter, ^ cake 
Baker's chocolate grated, 1 cup cold cofifee (liquid), 2 heap- 
ing cups browned flour, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, whites 
of 5 eggs. Rub butter and sugar together, add grated choco- 
late, coffee, flour with baking powder, and last the whites of 
the eggs well beaten. Bake in loaf or two layers and use white 
or chocolate icing. The flour must be sifted after it is browned 
and before measuring. Mrs. N. B. Lewis. 

HASH CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, 1 of sugar, whites of 4 eggs, ^ cup 
milk, ^ teaspoonful soda, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, 1^ 
cups flour. Frosting : One cup raisins chopped, 1 cup hickory 
nut meats, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup water. Boil until it strings, then 
spread over the cake. Ah's. E. Bissell, Kenosha, Wis. 

LAYER CAKE. 

One-half cup butter (generous measure), \% cups sugar, 
>>4 cup milk, 6 eggs (whites only), 3 cups flour after sifting, 
2 rounding teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 level teaspoonful 
of salt, 1 teaspoonful of flavoring. Cream butter and sugar 

105 



until light. Then add Yi cup of flour. Next put in milk a 
little at a time. Water will do, if you have not milk. Add 2 
cups of flour. Next eg-gs, and lastly ^^ cup of flour which is 
left with haking- powder in it. Always use winter wheat flour. 

Miss Jennie Drake. 

KENOSHA SPONGE CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, 3 eggs, }4 cup of boiling water, 1 V2 cups 
of flour, 1 heaping teaspoonful baking powder, pinch of salt. 
Beat yolks of eggs and sugar to a cream, add the other ingredi- 
ents, and lastly fold in the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Bake slowly at first. Mrs. Emma Bissell. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound butter, 1 pound sugar, 1 pound flour, y2 cup mo- 
lasses, ^ cup brandy, 8 eggs, 1/2 teaspoon soda dissolved in 
little hot water, 1 pound citron shaved fine, 2 pounds currants, 
3 pounds raisins. 1 tablespoon each of cinnamon, cloves, mace 
and nutmeg. Add the fruit well dried and floured. Take out 
some of the dough minus the fruit to cover on top so the fruit 
will not 1)urn. Mrs. Whittock, Broadalhin, N. V. 



SOFT GINGER CAKE. 

One cup of molasses into which beat ^ teaspoon of baking 
soda, 1 cup of New Orleans molasses, 2/3 cup of butter. Beat 
the above ingredients together. Add 2 well-beaten eggs, 1 
tablespoon of ginger, 1 cup of sour cream into which ^ tea- 
spoon of soda has been added, 3 cups of flour — not a bit more. 

L. C. Beebe. 

JAM CAKE. 

Four eggs, 2 cups sugar, 4 cups flour, 1 cup of cream, 1^ 
cups of butter, 1 cup jam, 1^^ cups chopped nuts, 1 pound of 
raisins, ^ pound citron (cut fine), 1 pound currants, 1 tea- 
spoonful each of nutmeg, cinnamon and allspice, 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, 1 teaspoonful salt, 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla. 
Baked in moderate oven three hours. Miss Drake. 

106 



IMPERIAL CAKE. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 4 eggs, Z^A cups 
flour 1 cup of dates. 1 cup walnuts, 1 cup of citron (chopped), 
3 teaspoonfuls baking- powder or 1 of soda and 2 of cream of 
tartar, 1 tablespoonful of vanilla, 8 drops of oil of cinna- 
mon. Bake in angel cake tin in a moderate oven for 1% or Z 
hours. Half of this makes a large cake. 

Mrs. J. S. Johns, Ozvcn 'Sound, Canada. 

ICE WATER SPONGE CAKE. 
One cup sugar, 3 eggs, >4 cup ice water, 1>4 cups of flour, 
UA teaspoonfuls baking powder. Beat eggs and sugar to- 
o-ether with 1 tablespoon ice water for 3 or 4 minutes then 
add other ingredients, whites beaten. Then beat all 3 or 4 
minutes longer. Mrs. E. J. Bowes, Jr. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 
Two sections of chocolate in the bottom of a bowl ; add 1 
cup boiling water, 1 egg, Y^ cup butter melted, ^ cup sour 
milk with 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup flour, 1 cup sugar. Bake 
in 2 shallow square tins. 

FROSTING. 
One pound confectioners' sugar and Yi cup thick cream 
stirred to a paste and flavor with vanilla. When cake is cold 
spread thick and when this paste is set spread with 2 sections 
chocolate melted with small pieces of butter. This needs to 
be thin. Mrs. Peters, Buffalo, N. Y. 

SPONGE CAKE. 
Twelve eggs; the weight of 11 eggs in sugar and 8 in flour; 
keep out 2 volks. Flavor as you like. I use lemon. 

Miss Drake. 

FEATHER CAKE. 
Light brown sugar 1>4 cups, butter V2 cup, milk 1 ciip, 
flour 2 >4 cups, eggs (whites onlv) 6, baking powder 2 tea- 
spoons ; flavor to taste. Cream butter and sugar together, add 

107 



milk, then flour through the baking powder has been sifted, 
beating very thoroughly. Beat eggs very stiff and fold in 
lightly. I'ake in 3 layers in quick oven. 

Mrs. R. IV. Murison. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING AND FROSTING. 

Mix ^ of a cup of flour with ^ cup of sugar (scant), add 
1 egg and beat thoroughly ; then stir into 1 cup of scalded 
milk and cook 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. Set aside to 
become cool. Wash 1 cup of butter and beat into it 1 cupful 
powdered sugar, add to the first mixture with 1 teaspoonful 
of vanilla and iy2 square of melted chocolate, spread when 
cool. Mrs. I. E. Frank haiiser. 

PORCUPINE CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Seven yolks of eggs, 5 whites, % pound of sugar, ^4 pound 
of almonds ground fine, 1 cake German sweet chocolate, 1 
teaspoonful of vanilla, grated rind of 1 lemon. Bake in 1 
solid cake. Beat yolks and sugar together, melt chocolate and 
add, then add almonds previously pulverized or ground very 
finely, add rind of lemon and vanilla : lastly fold in whites of 
eggs which have been beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in a loaf 
45 minutes in a moderate oven. 

FROSTING. 

One cup sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls of cocoa, 1 teaspoonful of 
vanilla, hot water enough to make right consistency to spread 
on cake. After frosting, cut blanched almonds in strips and 
stick on top of cake to represent a porcupine. This cake may 
be sliced and eaten as pudding with whipped cream. 

Miss Jennie A. Drake. 

COLONIAL GINGER BREAD. 

Put together 1 cup Porto Rico molasses, ^ cup butter, ^ 
cup sugar creamed together, 2 eggs, 1 cup thick sour milk, 
1 teaspoonful each of ginger and cinnamon, 1^ teaspoonfuls 
soda sifted with 3 cups of flour; beat. Bake in loaf. Serve 
warm. Garnish with whipped cream. 

Anna Harrison, 

108 



SPICE CAKE. 
One even cupful sugar, 1>4 heaping tablespoonfuls butter, 
2 eggs beaten separately, j/2 cup molasses, 2 teaspoons cinna- 
mon, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 even cup sour milk, with 1 tea- 
spoonful soda, 1 cup seeded raisins, about 2 cups flour. 
^ Mrs. Hal D. Tracy. 

TIPSY SQUIRE. 
Saturate a thin sponge cake with sherry wine. Ornament 
the top thickly with split blanched almonds. Pour over it a 
rich custard made of 1 quart of milk, yolks of 6 eggs, whites 
of 2, 1 teacupful of sugar. Whip 1 pint of cream until thick. 
Put over the cake and custard. 

POTATO CARAMEL CAKE. 
Two-thirds cup of butter, 2 cups granulated sugar, 2 cups 
of flour, 1 cup mashed potato, Yz cup of sweet milk, 4 eggs, 
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, }i cup grated chocolate, 1 cup 
chopped English walnuts, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 1 of cloves, 
1 nutmeg. Cream butter and sugar, add eggs, then alternate 
flour and potato, add balance of ingredients. One-half of 
this makes a good loaf. Take whole quantity of nuts. 

Emma M. Locsch. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING. 
Two cups granulated sugar, 8 tablespoons of water. Cook 
until strings, then beat this into the beaten whites of 2 eggs ; 
add a square or less of chocolate while beating. 

Emma M. Locsch. 



SMALL CAKES, 

HERMITS. 
Four eggs beaten, 3 cups brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup 
sour milk. 1 teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 2 teaspoons 
cloves 2 teasi)oons nutmeg, flour enough to make soft batter, 
y2 package of seeded raisins. Mrs. E. J. Henry. 



109 



DELICIOUS DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup sour buttermilk, 2 eggs, 1 cup granulated sugar, 
3 tablespoons of lard, a little salt, a little nutmeg, enough flour 
to make soft dough. Fry and roll in powdered sugar. 

Mrs. Genevieve Bookzvalter. 

RECEIPT OF WHITE COOKIES. 

One-half cup of butter, 2 eggs, 1 cup of sweet milk, 1 tea- 
spoon of cream of tartar, j/^ teaspoon of soda. Stir into a 
soft dough and season with nutmeg. Mrs. N. A. Pennoyer. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup New Orleans molasses, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup shorten- 
ing butter and lard, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in the molasses, 
2 teaspoons ginger, a little salt. Boil this mixture a few min- 
utes, or till it bubbles ; then add flour enough to roll out soft. 
Bake in slow oven. Lucia C. Beebe. 

OATMEAL MACAROONS. 

Two tablespoons butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 3 cups oatmeal, 
1 teaspoon baking powder, ^ teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon almond 
flavoring. Moderate oven (10 minutes). Leave on tins 3 
minutes before trying to remove. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

One cup sugar, ^2 cup mixed butter and lard, 1 Qgg, Vz cu]) 
sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda sifted through the flour, flour enough 
to roll; season with nutmeg; put a split raisin on top of each 
cookie and sprinkle with sugar. Leave a space in the pan 
between each cookie. Lucia C. Beche. 

GINGER FINGERS. 

One cup New Orleans molasses. >< cup sugar. 1 cup shorten- 
ing butter and lard, scant 3^4 cup boiling water, 3 cups flour, 
scant teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 tablespoon gin- 
ger, ^'2 teaspoon cloves. Roll thin and cut with knife in 
strips 1 inch by 4. Leave space between fingers in pan and 
bake in slow oven. When taken from pan spread out on paper 
to cool ; then cover each one with boiled frosting. 

Miss Edith Thompson, New York. 

no 



FROSTING. 

One cup granulated sugar, 6 tablespoonfuls water; boil till 
it "hairs"; beat this into the beaten white of an egg; when 
ready to spread add lemon juice. If frosting is too hard add 
a very little water. Lucia C. Beebe. 

OATMEAL COOKIES. 

Two cups of oatmeal, 1 cup of flour, ^4 cup of butter, ^ 
cup of boiling water (scant), 1 teaspoon of soda, 1 small cup 
sugar, y2 teaspoon salt. Dissolve soda in boiling water. Very 
good. Mrs. J. B. Pike. ' 

WALNUT PATTIES. 

Two eggs, y2 pound sugar, ( ^ each dark brown and white 
sugar), Sy tablespoons flour, 1^ cups walnut meats broken in 
pieces, ^ teaspoon salt, )4 teaspoon baking powder. Drop in 
pan (buttered and floured) size of quarter. Set 1^ inches 
apart and bake in moderate oven about 10 minutes. Let stand 
on pan when done for about 5 minutes. 

MARGUERITES (CAKE). 

Whites of 2 eggs beaten very stiff, >4 pound pulverized 
sugar, y2 pound chopped nuts. 1 teaspoonful flour. Drop in 
pan and bake very quickly. These are very nice on the Long 
Branch crackers. Spread on crackers, then put them in the 
oven to brown. Lillian L. Binz. 

FRUIT COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar, brown or white, 1 cup butter or ^ of lard, 
3 eggs, 4 tablespoons of milk, 2 cups chopped raisins, 1 tea- 
spoon cinnam^on, a little clove, a little nutmeg, 1 teaspoon soda, 
flour enough to make it stiff. Bake on bottom of tins turned 
bottom side up. Mrs. Charles J. Blair. 

FRIED CAKES. 

Two eggs beaten well, 1 cup sugar, 3 even tablespoons melted 
butter, 1 cup sour niilk (buttermilk preferred), 4 cups flour, 
Yz teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt! 
a little nutmeg. Mix soft. Mrs. Charles J. Blair. 



SOUR CREAM COOKIES. 

One and one-half cups sugar, almost 1 cup butter, creamed 
together ; 1 cup sour cream, ^ nutmeg, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon 
baking powder, 1 teaspoon soda, flour enough to make a soft 
dough. Bake on bottoms of tins. Mrs. Laurence Stiles. 

OATMEAL MACAROONS. 

One rounded tablespoon butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 Qgg, salt, 1 
teaspoon vanilla, 2^ cups rolled oatmeal, 1 teaspoon baking 
powder. Mix dry ingredients thoroughly, work in butter and 
flavoring. This recipe makes 3 dozen. 

A VERY DAINTY SWEDISH FRIED CAKE. 

Four eggs, 4 tablespoons sugar, 4 tablespoons of thick sweet 
cream ; beat yolks of eggs and sugar till almost white, add 
cream and beat again ; then the beaten whites ; add flour to 
roll out very thin. Cut in narrow strips, make slit in center 
and draw one end through to tie a knot. Fry in hot lard a 
very light brown. Roll in powdered sugar while hot. 

Alma Soderberg. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES. 

One cup brown sugar, ^ cup butter ; measure, then melt ; 
1 Qgg, Yz cup sweet milk, ^^ teaspoonful soda dissolved in the 
milk, \y2 cups well sifted flour, 2 tablespoonfuls chocolate 
melted, ^ cup seeded raisins, Y^ cup chopped nuts. Drop from 
dessert spoon into buttered tins and bake. Mrs. Fred F. Cain. 

To bake cookies well invert a dripping pan, butter bottom 
and place cookies on it. 

FRIED CAKES. 

One cup sugar, 1 cup cream, 1 cup buttermilk, 2 eggs, flavor- 
ing, 1 teaspoon of soda, 2 teaspoons of cream of tartar, flour. 

Alma Soderberg. 

HERMIT COOKIES. 

Two eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup currants and 
raisins, ^ teaspoonful cinnamon, >^ teaspoonful cloves, >^ tea- 
spoonful soda in a tablespoonful hot water, flour enough to 
roll out well. Christine Monson. 

112 



GINGER SNAPS. 

Pour 1 cupful of boiling water on y^ cup of butter and 34 
cup lard ; add Yz cup brown sugar and Y cup molasses in 
which has been dissolved 1 teaspoon ful soda ; stir thoroughly, 
then add 3 cups pastry flour, 1 teaspoon ginger. Let stand 
over night in a cool place. 

PEANUT COOKIES. 
Three-quarters cup of peanuts, 1 cup pastry flour, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, ^ teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons butter, 
2 tablespoons milk, 1 tgg, Vz cup sugar. Cream butter and 
sugar together, then add peanuts, which have been finely 
chopped, then milk and dry ingredients. Mix well. Roll and 
cut out and garnish by putting half a peanut on each cookie. 
This makes 3 dozen small cookies. One quart peanuts in the 
shell will be enough. Bake only long enough to brown. A nice 
substitute for macaroons. Miss Bailey, Maiden, Mass. 

BANANA FRITTERS. 

Two eggs (beaten separately), 1 cup sour milk, 1 teaspoon 
soda, 2 cups flour, pinch of salt, 2 or 3 bananas or peaches 
sliced or apples chopped. Have lard hot and cook like dough- 
nuts. When cooked sprinkle powdered sugar over them. If 
used as dessert make a thick syrup to eat over them. 

GINGER SNAPS. 
One cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup butter, 3 cups flour, 
1 e^^, 1 tablespoonful of ginger, 1 tablespoon of vinegar, 1 
teaspoon of soda ; put boiling water over soda ; add just enough 
more flour to roll out very thin. Miss Alma Soderherg. 

GRAHAM COOKIES. 
One cup thick sour cream, 1 teaspoonful soda stirred into 
cream to foam, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, little salt. 
Mix with Graham flour. Use white flour for rolling. Roll 
very thin and sprinkle with sugar. Mrs. C. C. Cobb. 

AUNT JANET'S COOKIES. 
Two and one-half cups brown sugar, 2 eggs, 1^^ tablespoons 
melted butter, 1 teaspoon soda, Graham flour to thicken. Flavor 
with caraway seeds (2^ teaspoons) or chopped walnuts or 
raisins. Miss Janet Vance. 

113 



CREAM COOKIES. 

Three eggs, 2 cups siij2:ar, 1 cnp butter and lard (y^ each), 
3 teaspoons baking powder, }^ cup cream (never use milk), 
flour to handle. These cookies are delicious if chopped nuts 
are sprinkled on top. Mrs. E. J. Bowes, Jr. 

COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup sour cream, 4 eggs 
beaten separately ; add part of cream to beaten yolks and 1 
level teaspoon ful soda to the rest of the cream ; 1 teaspoon ful 
(large) baking pov/der, 1 saltspoonful salt. 1 grated nutmeg. 
Mix soft and roll out rather thick. Bake in quick oven. Can 
put raisin in center of each and sprinkle with sugar. 

Mrs. G. W. Powell. 



ICES AND ICE CREAM, 

'' And like the snowfall on the river, 
A moment white — then melts forever." 

— Burns. 

ICE CREAM. 

Scald 1 pint milk, beat yolks of 4 eggs and beat in thor- 
oughly with beater 1 scant cup granulated sugar and pinch of 
salt. Turn boiling milk over this and mix thoroughly ; then 
put back in double boiler and stir constantly till it thickens. 
Strain immediately, and Vv'hen cold add % pound candied 
cherries cut fine, a tablesDoonful of brandv and small teaspoon- 
ful vanilla. ]v[9.t before freezing add ]/> pint cream, whipped. 
Mrs. W. A. Stiles' recipe, and very fine. 

MAPLE SYRUP ICE CREAM. 

Two cups maple syrup, }'olks of 8 eggs, 1 quart cream. 

Anna Soderberg. 

PISTACHIO ICE CREAM. 

One quart cream, 1 pint milk, li/< cups sugar, whites of 4 
eggs beaten stiff, 1 teaspoonful or more of pistachio extract, 

114 



1 cupful of almonds blanched and powdered fine. Cream 

should be partly frozen before nuts are added. 

Minnie Lewis Fix en. 

BISQUE. 

One pint cream. 1^ dozen macaroons, 2-3 cup pulverized 
su.c^ar. Whip cream stiff, roll macaroons and sug^ar together 
and stir in slowly. Pack in ice and salt 3 hours before serving. 

BURNT SUGAR ICE CREAM. 

Take t/ pound of su.s^ar, brown half of it in a saucepan ; stir 
in sufficient water to bring to a liquid state : add the other 
sugar, with 1 pint of milk and 4 eggs well beaten : flavor 
strongly with lemon or vanilla, and freeze. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI ICE CREAM. 

Make a custard of 5 well beaten eggs, 1 quart of milk and 

2 cups of sugar : flavor. When cold add 1 pint rich cream. 
When half frozen add 1 small wine glass of sherry and ^ 
pound of candied cherries and pineapple cut in small pieces. 
Continue to freeze. I use as flavoring Vi teaspoonful lemon, 
j4 teaspoonful orange and ^ teaspoonful vanilla. 

Mrs. 0. H. Watson. 

FROZEN CREAM DE MENTHE. 

I )ne quart v/ater, ^4 cup sugar : boil 20 minutes ; when cold 
add V2 cup creme de menthe syrup. Freeze, garnish with 
green creme de menthe cherries. Mrs. C. M. Smith. 



NUT ICE CREAM. 

Put y2 cup granulated sugar in a saucepan over the fire until 
melted and a golden brown. Add Vi cup boiling water and let 
it simmer 10 minutes. Scald 1 pint of thin cream in a double 
boiler until scalding hot. Add ^ cup sugar, ^ teaspoon salt 
and the caramel. Stir until sugar is melted : then set away to 
cool, stirring it quite often. When readv to freeze stir in 1 pint 
of whipped cream and 1 cup of pecans chopped fine. Prepare 
the nuts while the cream is cooling, being careful to remove 
all of the brown, puckery substance in the folds of the nuts. 

115 



Rinse thoroughly in boiling water and dry them thoroughly, 
then chop fine. Add to the cream and freeze until stiff. Then 
remove the beater, pack in mould if so desired, and let ripen 
for about 2 hours. 

SULTANA ROLL. 

Make a custard of 1 pint milk, 1 cup of sugar, 1 tablespoon 
flour, 1 egg and ^4 teaspoon salt. Cook 20 minutes, stirring 
frequently, then strain and cool. Add 1 quart of ordinary 
cream. Flavor with vanilla (color with coloring paste if 
desired). Freeze, then line mould about 1 inch deep. Fill 
the hollow with sweetened whipped cream to which has been 
added Sultana raisins which have been soaked in brandy 4 
hours. Pack in ice and salt and let stand 4 hours- before 
serving. Mrs. Wall. 

CARAMEL MOUSSE. 

Stir 1 cup of granulated sugar over the fire constantly until 
it is a golden brown. Do not let it get too brown or it will be 
bitter. Let it cool a little, then add 1 cup of hot milk and stir 
over hot water until the caramel is all dissolved. Beat the 
yolks of 4 eggs until thick, add a little of the hot caramel mix- 
ture, and when well mixed with the eggs stir into the rest of 
the mixture and stir until quite cold. Flavor with 1 teaspoon 
vanilla and beat until thoroughly blended. Whip 3 cups of 
cream very stiff and fold in the caramel mixture thoroughly. 
Turn into a cjuart mold, butter the edges of the cover, put on 
tight and pack in ice and salt. Let stand about 4 hours before 
serving. 

PRUNE MOUSSE. 

Wash and place in earthen or granite dish ^ pound Cali- 
fornia prunes, over which pour while hot 1^ cups of water 
in which 4 tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar have been boiled 
until clarified. Let stand over night, or until prunes are fullv 
swollen. Remove pits and cut prunes in quarters and place in 
mold, over which i)()ur the following sago jelly and place on 
ice or in cool place to harden. Serve with " Marshmallow 
Cream." 

116 



SAGO JELLY. 

To 1 quart of water put 6 heaping tablespoonfuls of sago. 
Let stand a half hour or more, then boil to a jelly. Stir all the 
time while boiling. A pinch of salt may be added if desired. 
Partially cool before pouring over prunes. 

MARSH MALLOW CREAM FOR PRUNE MOUSSE. 

One cup granulated sugar, ^2 cup water, ^ pound good 
marshmallow candy. Boil sugar and water until it threads. 
Remove from fire and put into it while hot the marshmallow 
candy. When dissolved, beat to the consistency of cream 
(only), adding the well beaten white of 1 egg gradually while 
beating. 
Mrs. M. F. Cressey, ^04 Eighteenth Street, Milwaukee, Wis. 

CARAMEL MOUSSE. 

One cup maple syrup, 4 egg yolks, 1 pint whipping cream; 
boil syrup until it thickens a little, pour into the egg yolks, 
which have been beaten stiff ; put in double boiler and stir until 
thickens, then beat until cold ; add whipped cream and stir in. 
Put in mold and pack in ice 3 hours. Seal mold with lard 
before packing. Mrs. I. J. Bryan. 

COFFEE MOUSSE. 

One pint cream whipped stiff, ^ cup very strong coffee, 1 
scant cup sugar dissolved in coffee, 4 egg yolks beaten. Mix 
coffee, sugar and eggs, stir in whipped cream. Pour in mold, 
seal mold with lard, pack in salted ice 3 hours. 

Mrs. E. C. Noe. 

This Vatican punch was first made for Pope Pius VI at 
the time Napoleon entered Italy, 1797. A son of the chief 
confectioner to the Pope, named Nolas, ran away from his 
father and united his fortunes with the French. He later 
became the favorite cook to the Empress Josephine and after 
her death to the Russian Prince Lieven, whom he accompanied 
to London, where the prince was appointed ambassador to the 
court of St. James. This Italian made the Papal beverage for 
the Prince's table. The Prince procured the recipe and per- 
mitted a few of his friends to copy it. It has been passed down 
from one generation to another to the present. G. T, 

117 



VATICAN PUNCH. 

Two pineapples, 1 dozen lemons, 2 pounds of sugar, 2 pints 
of champagne, 1 pint of Jamaica rum, 1 quart of water. Grate 
the pineapple and strain. Pare the lemons, removing all pith; 
wash, crush and strain. Make a syrup of the sugar and water, 
add the juice of the pineapple and freeze. Beat the whites of 
the eggs till they are stiff ; add 1 tablespoon of sugar for each 
c:gg, and the juice of the lemons. Pour this into freezer with 
the pineapple and mix thoroughly. Before serving add a gill 
of rum to each quart of the mixture and a pint of champagne 
to each 2 quarts. Return to freezer and chill. 

Mrs. Guy Magee. 

FROZEN EGGNOGG. 

One quart cream, 6 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls 
sherry wine, 2 tablespoonfuls brandy. Beat yolks of eggs and 
add sugar ; scald cream ; pour over eggs and sugar. Put in 
double boiler and cook until nice custard. When cold and 
ready to freeze beat whites of eggs and add brandy and wine. 

Mrs. C. A. Burton. 

LEMON SHERBET. 

Two cups sugar, juice of 3 lemons, 1 quart of milk, whites 
of 3 eggs well beaten and added after it is partly frozen. 

Anna Soderberg. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI PUNCH. 

Boil together for 5 minutes 1 quart of water and 1 pound of 
sugar ; add the grated rind of 2 lemons and 4 oranges and 
continue boiling for 5 minutes longer. Strain the syrup 
through cheesecloth and add 1 quart of cold water. Extract 
the juice from the lemons and oranges, mix with 2 dozen 
Malaga 'grapes cut in half and seeded, two sliced tangerine 
oranges, 4 slices of pineapple and 1 pint bottle of Maraschino 
cherries with their liquor. Serve well iced. 

Mrs. 0. H. Watson. 

COFFEE ICE. 

One pint of the strongest coffee, 1 pint of richest cream. 
Sweeten and freeze. 

118 



RASPBERRY ICE. 

One quart of rich cream, 1 quart of crushed raspberries. 
Sweeten and freeze. 

CAFE PARFAIT. 

To 1 pint of thick add 34 cup of powdered sugar, % 
CUP very black coffee and 1 teaspoon vanilla. Whip the 
mixture and as the froth rises skim it off and place carefully 
on a skimmer. Continue to whip and skim until no more froth 
rises Let stand in a very cold place for 15 minutes, then turn 
the froth into a solid mold with a tightly fitting cover Pack 
in ice and salt for 3 or 4 hours before serving. /. W, G. 

LEMON GINGER SHERBET. 
Four lemons, 4 ounces crystallized ginger, 2 cupfuls sugar, 
4 cupfuls boiling water. Shave off peel from 2 lemons in thin 
parings ; also shave ginger in small pieces. Pour boiling water 
on them and let it steep 15 minutes. Squeeze lemons, add sugar 
and after removing parings add water and ginger to lemon 
iuice and sugar. Stir until dissolved. When cold freeze as 
\^^^^l Mrs. N. E. Johnson. 

PARFAIT. 

One pint of triple cream whipped until stiff, whites of 3 eggs 
beaten and add to cream, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. Put in mold 
and freeze 4 hours. Serve with whipped cream and candied 
cherries put around it. Sweeten to taste. Miss J. A. Drake, 

FROZEN CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 
One-half box Knox gelatine. Dissolve in 2 cups of milk; 
10 eo-es whites only beaten stiff ; 1 quart triple cream whipped 
stiff °W pint sherry wine, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. Put in 
freezer and freeze as you would ice cream. Remove dasher 
and pack. This is delicious. Miss Drake. 

FROZEN EGGNOGG. 
One and a half pints cream, 1 scant cup sugar, 3 eggs, 
flavoi in^ Heat cream in double boiler ; beat yolks of eggs with 
suo-ar add to cream and cook to the consistency of thick 
cream When cool add >4 nutmeg grated, 2 tablespoonfuls 
brandy and 2 tablespoonfuls sherry (or New England rum, if 



19 



preferred). When ready to freeze add beaten whites of eggs; 
freeze. Mrs. E. J. Bozves. 

LEMON SHERBET. 

One pint cold water, juice of 3 lemons, 1^^ cups granulated 
sugar, whites of 3 eggs. Stir in juice of the lemons into the 
water; add the sugar. Put in freezer and stir until nearly- 
frozen. Then add the beaten whites of the eggs and stir only 
enough to mix thoroughly. It should be as white as snow or 
ice cream. Ida S. Downs. 



PRESERVES, 

'* A perpetual feast of nectared szueets." 

WINDSOR MARMALADE. 

One dozen oranges, 4 lemons, 12 pints of water, 12 pounds of 
sugar. Slice oranges and lemons very thin and soak them in 
the water for 48 hours. Boil the mixture down to one-half 
the quantity and add the sugar. Boil again until it jellies. Use 
an orange saw for slicing and a porcelain kettle for the boiling. 
Heat the sugar in a slow oven before adding it to the orange. 

Mrs. Guy Magee. 

CHERRY CONSERVE. 

Three pounds stoned cherries (4 quart boxes), 2 pounds 
seeded raisins, 4 large oranges, 4 pounds sugar. Chop oranges 
fine ; steam raisins 20 minutes, then chop them coarse ; add 
cherries, oranges and sugar. Boil 20 minutes and put in jelly 
glasses. Mrs. H. S. Harris. 

CITRON PRESERVES. 
Get good solid citron, pare off rind, seed, cut in 3 slices 
2 inches long; weigh, put in preserving kettle with water 
enough to cover. Boil 1 hour. Take out citron and to the 
water add as much sugar as there is melon by weight. Boil 
until (|uitc thick, replace melon, add 2 thinly sliced lemons 
if small or 1 large to each pound of fruit. Boil 20 minutes, 
take out fruit, boil syrup until thick molasses; pour over fruit, 
seal quickly. Mrs. James Flanigan. 

120 



BAR LE DUG. 

To 4 quarts of red or white currants add 1 jar of strained 
honey. Cook 20 minutes. Mrs. John Vance Cheney. 

THE FOUR MEASURES. 

One quart of stoned cherries, 1 quart of red currants, 1 quart 
-of red raspberries, 1 quart of gooseberries. Add equal amount 
of sugar and boil as for jelly. Mrs. Fred Hubbard. 

PINEAPPLE AND STRAWBERRY JAM. 

One large pineapple to every 4 boxes of strawberries. Pare 
pineapple with silver knife, remove eyes, and shred with a 
silver fork. Weigh and add an equal weight of sugar. Stand 
aside over night or for a few hours at least. Weigh straw- 
berries, wash, hull and add equal weight sugar. Also stand 
aside. Then bring strawberries and sugar slowly to a boil. 
Remove strawberries from syrup with a silver salad fork or 
other large fork to a platter and set in sunshine. Put pine- 
apple and pineapple syrup into strawberry syrup and cook 
until pineapple is tender and syrup is quite thick. Test a little 
on a saucer. Now return strawberries to pineapples and syrup 
and bring again to boil, stirring continually. Pour in jelly 
glass. When cold cover with paraffin. Some tastes might 
prefer more pineapple, say 1 cup of pineapple to 2 of straw- 
berries, always taking an equal weight of sugar of each, not 
measure. Mrs. N. E. Johnson. 

PEAR CHIPS. 

Eight pounds pears, 6 pounds sugar, 6 lemons and the rinds 
of 3, Yz pound preserved ginger. Slice the pears on a cabbage 
sheer, slice ginger and lemons, removing lemon seeds. Put the 
material in jars in layers, let stand 24 hours, then cook until 
clear, and can. Anna Mitchell, Albany, N. Y. 

ORANGE STRAWS. 

Put orange peel in a weak brine for 3 or 4 days, changing 
water each day. Then scrape out as much as possible of inner 
white skin and cut peel into narrow strips with scissors. Put 
strips, or straws, on stove with enough water to cover and let 
boil for 10 or 15 minutes, drain and repeat the process. After 

121 



draining again, return to fire with 1 cup of sugar and J^ cup 

of water (this quantity enough for peeHngs of 6 oranges). 
Cook down slowly until syrup is nearly absorbed by orange 
peel. Then remove with a silver fork and place in waxed 
paper, well sprinkled with sugar. Grace Griiber Cloyes. 

BAKED APPLES WITH CREAM OF WHEAT. 

Pare and remove the cores from tart apples, fill cavities with 
sugar, add a few spoonfuls of water. Bake until tender, turn- 
ing to keep them whole. Serve hot, filling the centers with 
well cooked cream of wheat. Serve with whipped cream. 

SAGO JELLY. 

Sago jelly is a nice dish for an invalid. Add 6 tablespoon- 
fuls of sago to a quart of boiling water and stir frequently until 
it has formed a thick jelly. Sweeten with 5 or 6 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar and flavor with vanilla, nutmeg, cinnamon or lemon. 
Pour it into small molds while it is still hot and when cold 
serve with a little cream. 

WATERMELON PRESERVE. 

Take the red part of a good sized watermelon and all of the 
juice ; boil till it is almost a jam ; add 5 pounds of granulated 
sugar; boil an hour, stirring often, so it will not burn. Take 
it off from the fire and while still boiling hot add a 15-cent 
bottle of vanilla. Put up in glasses. Mrs. Charles Berrall. 

HOW TO PRESERVE A HUSBAND. 

Ee careful in your selection, do not choose too young and 
take only such varieties as have been reared in a good moral 
atmosphere. When once decided upon and selected, let that 
part remain forever settled, and give your entire thought to 
preparation for domestic use. Some insist on keeping them in 
a pickle, while others are constantly getting them into hot 
water. Even poor varieties may be made sweet, tender and 
good by garnishing them with patience well sweetened with 
smiles and flavored with kisses, to taste ; then wrap well in a 
mantle of charity, keep warm with a steady fire of devotion and 
serve with peaches and cream. When thus prepared they will 
keep for years. Aunt Sarah, 

122 



SPICED RHUBARB. 

Peel and slice thin 5 pounds of rhubarb, put on a dish (not 
tin) and sprinkle with 2 pounds of sugar. Let stand over 
night. In the morning drain off the syrup into a preserve 
kettle, add 3 pounds of sugar and a cup of vinegar, and set over 
the fire. Tie 3 or 4 dozen whole cloves in a little muslin bag, 
with a piece of ginger root (not candied ginger), and a stick 
of cinnamon. Put into the syrup and let boil until syrup is 
thick. Skim out the spice, add the rhubarb and cook until 
clear. Take up carefully and put into jars, to be used as 
needed. Be sure to get all the strings off the rhubarb. 

Ida S. Downs. 

JIM JAM. 

Five pounds of sugar, juice from 5 pounds of currants, 
1 quart red raspberry juice (about 6 boxes required), 1 pound 
large raisins seeded and cut in two, 2 seedless oranges cut in 
dice (peel and all). Boil all 1>^ hours. Serve with meats. 

Ida S. Downs. 

MIXED PICKLES. 

One quart small cucumbers, 1 quart wax beans, 1 pint small 
onions, 1 cauliflower cut up, kohlrabi, carrots and root celery, 
about a quart of each. Soak the cucumbers in salt water 24 
hours. Boil the other vegetables till tender, not soft, in sep- 
arate vessels of salt water. For the dressing take 2y2 quarts 
of diluted vinegar, 1^ cups white sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls mus- 
tard, 1 teaspoon curry powder, 1 scant cup flour. Boil till 
thick as cream. Pack the vegetables in glass jars, adding 1 
small red pepper, cut in strips, to each can. Pour the hot 
dressing over and seal. Elisabeth Crosby, 

MARMALADE. 

Three cups chopped pieplant, 1 cup chopped pineapple, 1 
orange juice and grated rind, 5 cups sugar. Cook till thick, then 
add ^ pound chopped almonds and lastly the juice of 1 lemon. 
This makes 6 jelly glasses, and it is very fine. Mrs. Crosby. 

HEAVENLY HASH. 

One quart gooseberries, 1 pint red currants, 1 pint red rasp- 
berries, 1 pineapple chopped, 1 pound English walnuts chopped 

123 



y-z pound chopped raisins if liked, 8 cups sugar. Cook until 
thick. Makes 14 or 15 jelly glasses full. 

CONSERVE. 

Eight cups currants or gooseberries, 8 cups sugar, 1 cup 
chopped raisins, 3 oranges. Cook 20 minutes. 

Elizabeth Crosby. 



PICKLES. 

'' Where's the peck of pickled peppers Peter Piper picked?" 

COLUMBIA CHUTNEY. 

Pare and quarter 15 large and very sour apples and chop very 
fine, together with 2 green peppers (from which the seeds have 
been taken), a cupful of stoned raisins and 2 onions. Place in 
a glazed kettle, add a quart of vinegar and simmer 2 hours. 
Now put in 2 cups brown sugar and 2 tablespoons each mus- 
tard seed, ground ginger and salt. Cook slowly 1 hour longer. 

Mrs. R. W. Miirison. 

CHOW CHOW. 

One quart small onions, 2 quarts small cucumbers, 1 quart 
green beans, 2 quarts cauliflower, 8 green peppers sliced. Soak 
all in brine 24 hours. Then let come to a boil in the brine. To 
2 quarts good cider vinegar add 8 tablespoons dry mustard, 
XYz cups flour, 34 ounce tumeric. Boil all together until well 
cooked. Then pour over pickles, which have been drained. 

CHOPPED PICKLES. 

One peck of green tomatoes, 6 or 8 onions chopped fine. Let 
them stand over night with a cupful of salt sprinkled through 
the layers. In the morning drain through a colander. Cook 
20 minutes in 2 quarts of water, drain oflf that liquid, add to 
pickle 4 cups of vinegar, 3 chopped red peppers, a little stick 
cinnamon. Boil 15 minutes ; stir to keep from burning. 

Mrs. Harris, 

124 



CANADIAN TOMATO MUSTARD. 

One gallon ripe tomatoes ; boil and strain ; add 1 quart malt 
vinegar, 1 pound white sugar, 1 ounce white pepper, 1 ounce 
whole alspice, Ys pound salt, >4 pound best mustard, 1 green 
pepper, slash and put in whole. Boil 2 hours, take out pepper 
and allspice. Bottle when cold. Mrs. J. S. Johns. 

CURRANT SOY. 
Five pounds ripe currants, 3 pounds sugar, 1 pint of vine- 
gar, 2 tablespoonfuls salt, 1 tablespoonful cloves, 1 tablespoon- 
ful allspice and 1 tablespoonful pepper, 1 tablespoonful cinna- 
mon. Cook 1 hour. Put in jars and cover with paraffin. 

Mrs. F. F. Caine. 

TOMATO PICKLE WITH RAISINS. 
One peck green tomatoes, 12 large onions, 4 green peppers, 
2 red peppers, 6 stalks celery, 2 pounds seeded raisins, 3 pounds 
brown sugar, 1 quart vinegar, mixed spices and cinnamon to 
taste. To prepare the pickle slice tomatoes and chop the 
onions ; cut celery into inch lengths ; scald tomatoes in vinegar 
(enough to cover) until tender. Then put a layer of tomatoes 
in crock, then celery, raisins and onions ; add spices, 1 quart 
fresh vinegar. Heat 4 times (all together), 4 mornings. 

Mrs. H. S. Harris. 

CHILI SAUCE. 
Twenty-four large tomatoes, 4 green peppers, 4 large onions, 
1 bunch celery, 4 cups vinegar, 1 cup grated horseradish, 4 
tablespoonfuls sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls salt, 3 tablespoonfuls 
ginger, 3 tablespoonfuls ground cloves, 2 tablespoonfuls allspice 
1 tablespoonful mace, 1 tablespoonful pepper (red). Chop 
celery, peppers, onions and tomatoes. Tie spices in bag and boil 
together 1>4 hours. Mrs. Macquarrie. 

PICKLES IN OIL. 
Wash 100 small cucumbers, 3 pints small white onions, j4 
cup of white pepper or 2 or 3 red peppers sliced, y^ cup celery 
seed, 1 teacup of oil, more if you desire it. To prepare the 
pickle, put a lavcr of cucumbers, then a layer of onions, sprin- 
kle through the layers 1 cup of salt; let stand 5 hours, or all 
night ; rinse off through colander : add spices, oil and vinegar 
to cover ; stir well. Seal in Mason jars. Mrs. H. S. Harris, 

125 



GRAPE CATSUP. 

Six pounds of grapes, 4 pounds of sugar, 1 pint of vinegar, 
1 tablespoon ful each of cinnamon and allspice, Yz tablespoonful 
cloves. Rub the grapes through a sieve. Simmer 2^/2 hours. 

PICKLED PEPPERS. 

To 2 dozen large green peppers, 5^ gallon cider vinegar, ^ 
teacup sugar, i^ small head of cabbage, red or white, 3 dozen 
small silver skin onions, an ounce of celery seed and 2 tablespoon- 
fuls grated horseradish. Cut the peppers in half and remove the 
seeds ; put peppers in strong salt water over night. Cut the 
cabbage on a cabbage cutter ; add the celery seed and onions 
and horseradish. Drain the peppers and stuff with the cab- 
bage, etc. Tie the halves together and place in a stone jar. 
Heat the vinegar, with sugar, to the boiling point, and pour 
over the peppers, leaving them uncovered until cool. Then 
cover securely and put in a cool place. About the third day 
they willbe ready to serve. Mrs. N. B. Lewis. 

TOMATO KETCHUP. 

One peck ripe tomatoes, 2 large or 3 small green peppers, 3 
large or 4 small onions, 4 tablespoonfuls salt, 1 cupful brown 
sugar, 3 cupfuls vinegar; 1 large stick cinnamon, ^ table- 
spoonful whole cloves, 5^2 tablespoonful whole allspice, 1 table- 
spoonful whole ginger, ^ tablespoonful mustard seed, 5^ 
tablespoonful celery seed, in a small cheesecloth bag. Chop 
onions and peppers fine and cut up tomatoes. Boil until tender, 
about 1 hour. Squeeze hard through a fruit press till all pulp 
except skin and seeds are through. Return to clean kettle 
with sugar, salt, vinegar and spices in a bag. Simmer slowly, 
stirring often, until slightly thick, or very thick, if desired, 
from 15^ to 3 l^-^urs. This makes a light colored ketchup, 
which children can 'oartake of. If liked darker and richer use 
ground spices instead. Mrs. N. E. Johnson. 

BTTCK-EN-BRECK. 
One peck of green tomatoes, jA peck of ripe tomatoes, 12 
onions, 12 peppers (6 green, 6 ripe), 1 large head of cabbage. 
Chop all except ripe tomatoes, salt heavy and drain over night. 
In the morning add the ripe tomatoes skinned and sliced, 2 
tablespoons allspice, 1 of pepper, 1 of mace and a quart of 

126 



vinegar which has been boiled with 3 pounds of brown sugar, 

and boil all together for 3 hours. When done add cold vinegar 
enough to cover it. Mrs. Seymour Jones. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 
Wash green tomatoes and slice rather thin ; salt them thor- 
oughly, 1 cup of salt to a peck of t-matoes ; salt in layers. Let 
stand over night, drain in the morning; allow 3 pounds of 
sugar to 3 quarts cider vinegar. Put sugar and vmegar to 
boil, when it boils set off from fire and remove the scum if any 
appears. Slice 3 onions, 3 green peppers in thin strips, 1 table- 
spoonful ground cinnamon, 20 whole cloves, 1 ounce whole 
allspice, 4 ounces shaved horseradish. Place vinegar and sugar 
again on the fire and add onions, horseradish and spices. When 
it boils add tomatoes, press under the vinegar and bring to a 
(juick boil, then remove from the fire at once. 

Mrs. I. Jennings Bryan. 

CANDY. 

Roly-poly, isn't he fat? 

Plump as a peach; yes, more than that. 

Candy was his hourly cry, 

Candy ivas his bosom's sigh. 

CANDIED VIOLETS. 
Remove the green stalks from the freshly picked violets. 
Roil good cane sugar to the blow (drop in ice water and if 
after remaining there a few seconds it can be drawn into long 
threads between thumb and first finger it is at the "blow"). 
Add violet flavor or violet extract and enough plum purple food 
color to make it a good violet, then throw in the violets and 
again bring the sugar to the blow. Draw the pan to the side of 
the stove and rub the sugar against the side of the pan until it 
whitens, then stir it well together, till the sugar separates from 
the flowers. Now turn the flowers onto a sieve. Lift ofT any 
loose sugar and place in oven to dry. For rose leaves use rasp- 
berrv-red food color and rose flavoring. For peppermint leaves 
use grape-green food color and peppermint extract or oil. 

Anna Rugby. 

X21 



ALMOND MACAROO?-^^. 

Pour boiling water on half a pound of almonds ; take skins 
off and throw into cold water for a few moments ; then take out 
and pound to a smooth paste, adding a tablespoon of essence 
of lemon. Add 1 pound of pulverized sugar and whites of 3 
eggs and work the paste well together with back of spoon. 
Dip the hands in water and roll mixture into balls the size of 
a nutmeg and lay on buttered paper an inch apart. When done 
dip the hands in water and pass over the macaroons gently, 
making the surface smooth and shining. Set in cool oven i/\. 
hour. If this recipe is strictly followed the macaroons will 
be found equal to anv made bv professional confectioners. 

Mrs. L. S. W. 

LEMON CANDY. 

Take a pound of loaf sugar and a large cup of water, and 
after cooking over a slow fire half an hour clear with a little 
hot vinegar, take off the scum as it rises, testing by raising 
with a spoon, and when the "threads" will snap like glass, pour 
into a tin pan and when nearly cold mark in narrow strips with 
a knife. Before pouring into the pan, chopped cocoanut, 
almonds, hickory nuts or Brazil nuts, cut in slices, may be 
stirred into it. Mrs. Nellie L. Giles. 

BUTTERNUT CANDY. 

Two cups maple sugar, 1 cup white sugar, 1 cup cream, 1 
teaspoonful butter. Boil until it hardens in water. Add 1 cup 
butternut meats (broken into small pieces) ; pour into a but- 
tered tin. When cool mark into squares. Mrs. N. B. Lewis. 

WELLESLEY MARSHMALLOW FUDGE. 

Heat 2 cups of granulated sugar and 1 cup of rich milk 
(cream is better). Add 2 squares of bakers' chocolate and 
boil until it hardens in cold water. Just before it is done add 
a small piece of butter, then begin to stir in marshmallows, 
crushing and beating them with a spoon. Continue to stir in 
marshmallows after the fudge has been taken from the fire 
until ^ pound has been stirred into the fudge. Cool in sheets 
^ inch thick and cut in cubes. Mrs. Hubbard. 

128 



CREAM CANDY. 

Two cups of sugar, 1 tablespoon vinegar, enough water to 
cover the sugar. When it starts to boil add a piece of butter 
the size of a walnut. Cook without stirring until a spoonful 
dropped into cold water can be rolled into a soft ball. Then 
add 1 teaspoon vanilla, turn out on a buttered platter and 
when cool enough to be handled pull until white. 

Mrs. Hiirtcr. 

WALNUT BRITTLE. 
Three and a half pounds granulated sugar, 2 pounds of glu- 
cose, 1 pint of molasses, 2 pounds walnuts, 1 ounce of soda. 
Cook to 310 degrees, or until it is brittle. 

Mrs. Mary F. Pease, Springfield, III. 

HOARHOUND CANDY. 

Boil 2 ounces of dried hoarhound in l^^ pints of water for 
about y? hour; strain and add 3^ pounds brown sugar. Boil 
over a hot fire until it is sufficiently hard ; pour out in flat well 
greased tin travs, mark into sticks or small squares. 

Mrs. Nellie L. Giles. 

BROWN SUGAR FUDGE. 

Three cups brown sugar, 1 cup milk, and butter the size of 

a walnut. Boil until it hardens in water. Take from stove; 

add vanilla ; beat until creamy ; turn into buttered plate. Mark 

off into squares when cool. Broken pecan meats may be added. 

Elisabeth Goiidy Slocum. 

BALTIMORE KISSES. 
Beat the whites of 4 small eggs to a high, firm froth ; stir into 
it- 3^ pound of pulverized sugar; flavor with essence of lemon 
or rose and continue to beat until very light; then drop half 
the size of an ^gg and a little more than an inch apart on well 
buttered letter paper. Lay the paper on a ^-inch board and 
place in a moderate oven. Watch and as soon as thev begin 
to look yellowish take them out. Or beat to a stiff froth the 
whites of 2 eggs, stirring into them very gradually 2 teacups 
powdered sugar and 2 tablespoons cornstarch. Bake on but- 
tered tins LS minutes in a warm oven, or until slightly brown. 
Chocolate pulp is made by adding 2 ounces grated chocolate 
mixed with the corn starch. Mrs. IV. JV. W. 

129 



BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Three cupfuls white sugar, ^ cup water, ^ cup vinegar or 
Yz teaspoon of cream of tartar, 1 tablespoon butter and 8 drops 
extract of lemon. Boil without stirring till it will snap and 
break when dropped in cold water. Just before taking from 
fire add ^4 teaspoon of soda. Pour into well buttered biscuit 
tins y\ inch thick ; mark off into inch squares when partly cold. 

COCOANUT DROPS. 

One pound cocoanut, Yi pound powdered sugar and the 
white of an ^%%. Work all together and roll into little balls in 
the hand, 'and bake on buttered tins. C. W. C. 

COCOANUT CARAMELS. 

One pint milk, butter size of an &gg, 1 cocoanut grated (or 
desiccated cocoanut may be used), 3 pounds white sugar, 2 
teaspoons extract of lemon. Boil slowly until stiff (some then 
beat to a cream). Pour into shallow buttered pans and when 
partly cold cut in squares. 

CARAMEL CREAM. 

Boil together 2 scant cups of brown sugar and 2-3 cup milk. 
When this begins to boil drop in a piece of butter the size of 
an egg. Flavor with vanilla. Boil this 5 minutes and pour 
into buttered tins. Lillian L. Bins. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

Five cups sugar, 3 egg whites, 1 ounce glycerine, vanilla to 
taste, 1 teaspoon of acetic acid. Cover the sugar with water 
and boil until it reaches 241^ degrees. Put in the acid when 
it begins to boil and the vanilla when you take it off. Put one- 
half the glycerine on the slab and pour the rest on top of the 
candy. When it is cool enough add the beaten whites of 3 
eggs and work all together until it " picks up." Dip in melted 
chocolate. Mrs. Nellie L. Giles. 

CHOCOLATE TAFFY. 
Mix together 2 cupfuls of granulated sugar and 3 cupfuls 
grated chocolate, 3^ cupful boiling water. Boil all together 
until nearly done ; add butter the size of a hickory nut and boil 

130 



until the candy snaps. Remove from the fire, flavor with 2 
spoonfuls of vanilla, cool and pull or cut any shape desired. 

Mrs. N. B. Lewis. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

White of 1 tgg, 2 pounds confectioners' sugar, 14 cup 
orange juice. Beat the white of the egg until it looks cloudy, 
then add a little sugar and beat, then a little orange juice, 
then sugar again and so on until all the orange juice is used up 
and finish by adding sugar until the fondant is thick enough 
to roll into balls or any shape you wish. Take j^ cake of 
Baker's chocolate and melt by setting the bowl over a steaming 
kettle, then dip the creams into this and lay on waxed paper. 
Use any flavor desired. Cocoanut and nuts and fruit may be 
put in the fondant and is delicious. Lillian L. Binz. 

SUCRE DE LA CREME. 

Boil 3 cupfuls of sugar and 1 of cream for 12 minutes ; then 
stir briskly, adding a cupful of nut meats ; pour upon oiled 
paper and when nearly cool cut into squares. 

Mrs. F. F. Cain. 

MAPLE SUGAR ON SNOW. 

Boil 1 pint maple syrup until when dropped on snow it 
remains on the surface and becomes waxy. Then spread it 
upon the surface of the snow or a block of ice. This will be 
found one of the most delicious treats obtainable. 

EVERTON TAFFY. 

Five pounds of light " C " sugar, 1^ pounds of glucose, ^ 
pound good butter, i< teaspoon of salt. Cook to 320 degrees, 
or until it hardens in water. 

Mrs. L. T. Smith, Springfield, III. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

One pint New Orleans molasses, }i cup of vinegar, butter 
3/2 size of egg, Yi teaspoon soda, dissolve and put in with 
butter. When it hardens in cohl water remove from fire and 
pull. Mrs. M. L. Fixen. 

131 



MAPLE FUDGE. 

One pound cake of maple sugar, 1 cup cream, butter size of 
walnut. Cook over slow iire, stirring most of the time. When 
done remove and beat for 15 minutes, until stiff. Pour into 
well buttered tins. Mrs. M. L. Fixen. 

OPERA CREAMS. 
Boil together 2 cups of sugar, 1 cup of water and piece of 
butter the size of a walnut and Yi tablespoonful of vinegar. 
Let this boil until when dropped into cold water comes to a 
soft ball. Then pour out into buttered pans and set out to cool 
about 5 minutes. Then take a spoon and beat it until it be- 
comes quite white, then pour into a platter, and in a few min- 
utes it will be ready to cut into squares. 

Lillian L. Bins. 

WHITE TAFFY. 
Five pounds granulated sugar, 1 pound of glucose, J/ pound 
good butter, f/ ounce vanilla. Cook barely to 260 degrees. 
Pour in well buttered tins and when cool pull until white and 
light. Mrs. R. E. Slater, Springiield, III 

OLD-FASPTTONED MOLASSES TAFFY. 

Three pounds sugar, Ij/j quarts of molasses, 1 pound good 
l)utter, 1 pound of glucose. Cook slowly to 260 degrees, or 
until it hardens when dropped in cold water. When cool pull 
to a light brown. Mrs. R. E. Slater, Spring-field, III. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 
One quart molasses, 1 cup brown sugar, piece of butter the 
size of an ^^g. Boil over slow fire, stirring to prevent burn- 
ing. When it hardens in cold water and breaks short between 
the teeth it is boiled enough. Now put in ^A teaspoon of 
baking soda and flavoring : stir well and pour into flat well but- 
tered tins. Wlien partly cool pull until light, draw out in 
narrow strips and clip with scissors. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

Two tcacupfuls browm sugar, 1 teacupful molasses, 1 
tablespoonful vinegar, a little butter and vanilla. Boil for 10 
minutes and when sufficiently cool pull thoroughly. 

132 



CREAM CANDY. 

Three cups white sugar, 1 cup of vinegar ; color with rasp- 
berry juice. Boil without stirring till a drop in cold water 
becomes crisp. Cool and pull. Mrs. Lewis. 

PINOUCHI. 

Boil 3 cups light brown sugar (or 2 of light brown and 1 
cup of granulated sugar), butter size of an egg, IVi cups of 
milk, stirring only now and then until it forms a very soft 
ball when dropped into cold water. When done take from fire, 
add vanilla, stir and beat constantly until it begins to thicken. 
Then add 1 cup English walnuts (cut up, not chopped), and 
stir again. Then pour quickly into a buttered tin or plate. Cut 
into squares before it hardens. Mrs. IV. H. Robinson. 

STUFFED DATES. 

Remove stones and fill in cavity with blanched almonds or 
peanut or walnut meats. Roll in powdered sugar. 

GRILLED ALMONDS. 

Blanch a cupful of almonds by pouring hot water on them. 
Let stand a few minutes and then plunge into cold water; 
dry thoroughly. Boil 1 cup of granulated sugar with 1 cup of 
water until it " hairs," then throw in the blanched almonds. 
Let them cook in this syrup, stirring occasionally, until they 
become a delicate brown before the sugar changes. As soon 
as the sugar commences to take on a color quickly take the 
pan from the fire and stir the almonds rapidly until the syrup 
has turned back to sugar and clings irregularly to the nuts. 

" Tried and True." 

SALTED AL^IONDS. ' 

Have olive oil smoking hot in the spider and put in the 
almonds with the skins left on. Stir until brown, then pour 
off the oil and salt. Mrs. John Vance Cheney. 

CHOCOLATE CHESTNUTS. 

Dip boiled chestnuts one by one into a rich syrup thickened 
with chocolate and flavored with vanilla. After dipping the 
chestnuts place them upon oiled paper. Mrs. Fred F. Cain. 

133 



CHOCOLATE ALMONDS. 

Blanch the ahnonds by pouring boiling water on them and 
let them stand 2 or 3 minutes. Roast them in oven. Dip them 
in the following recipe for chocolate coating and drop on 
paraffine paper: 

CHOCOLATE COATINGS— One-half pound cake Baker's 
sweet chocolate, 2 level tablespoonfuls butter, 2 tablespoonfuls 
boiling water. Put chocolate in saucepan over boiling water 
and when melted stir in butter and water. Mix well. If found 
to be too thick add more water ; if too thin, more chocolate. 

Mrs. N. B. Lewis. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Two pounds sugar, Yz pint dark molasses, 1 pound glucose, 
^ teaspoon ginger, % pound of butter, 2-3 pint of water. Cook 
sugar, glucose and water on hot fire until it forms a good hard 
ball in water, or 245 degrees with thermometer. Then add 
the molasses, butter and ginger and stir constantly after add- 
ing these, but not before. Cook now until almost brittle in 
water, or about 260 degrees with thermometer. Pour on 
greased marble slab very thin. Mark and cut up to suit. 

M. A. Pease, Canton, Ohio. 

POPCORN CRISPS. 

One and one-half pounds of sugar, J/ pound glucose, 2-3 
cup molasses, 2 ounces butter, 2-3 pint of water, good pinch 
salt. Cook sugar, glucose and water on hot fire until brittle 
in cold water. Stir it until it commences to boil and wipe down 
sides of kettle with damp cloth. When brittle in water, add 
molasses, butter and salt and stir constantly until it com- 
mences to burn, then pour out over about 10 quarts of popped 
corn and mix well. Then pour out on slab or platters as it 
settles down and gets hard if left in the pan it was mixed in. 
Lift out all unpopped kernels before adding syrup. 

M. A. Pease, Canton, Ohio. 

BABY CREAM. 

Two and one-half pounds of sugar, ^4 pound of glucose, ^ 
pint of cream. Put sugar, glucose and a scant pint of water 
on fire and cook to 260 degrees with thermometer, or until 

134 



slightly brittle in cold water. Then add the cream and stir 
gently' and let it cook up again until brittle in water, or about 
270 degrees. Then pour out on greased slab or platter and 
as soon as it is cool enough pull until pretty stiff; then cut 
up in small pieces. This is a fine warm weather taffy, as it 
is not sticky, but mealy inside. Flavor and color to suit while 
pulling it. ' M. A. Pease, Canton, Ohio. 

THINGS WORTH KNOWING, 

'' There is a knack in doing many a thing, 
Which labor cannot to perfection bring; 
Therefore, however great in your own eyes. 
Pray do not hints from other folks despise." 

If you wish to serve peas as an entree, cut out with a cookie 
cutter a round of bread from an ordinary sized slice of bread, 
then two rings with a doughnut cutter. Dip them in melted 
butter and toast delicately brown in the oven. Fill the cavities 
with peas cooked in a delicate cream sauce. 

Freshen the house by putting a few drops of oil of lavender 
in an ornamental bowl,'then half fill it with very hot water. This 
will give a delightful freshness to the atmosphere. 

To secure rose flavoring, fill a wide-mouthed bottle with 
fresh petals, packing them down as tight as possible. Then 
pour over them enough pure alcohol to submerge. 

Flower vases can be easily purified and cleaned by rinsing 
them out with warm water and powdered charcoal. 

A recent addition to the list of savory salts is onion salt, 
which is now put up in shaker cans or bottles for flavoring use. 

To take white spots from varnished furniture, hold a hot 
plate over them and they will disappear. 

For rose syrup, collect fresh petals each morning and spread 
on a tray to dry. When enough have been collected for a 
tumbler of preserve put in a fresh granite or porcelain kettle 
with just enough water to cover, and simmer until tender. 

Celerv should be allowed to lie in cold water to which a little 
salt has been added, for an hour before it is required for the 
table. This will make it very crisp. 

* 135 



To Brighten Coppcrware. — A little crushed borax if 
sprinkled thickly in a flannel cloth that is wet with hot water 
and well soaked will brighten the copper like magic. 

For Cake and Pie Pans. — Warm the pans and rub the inside 
with paraffine wax. This is superior to the old method of 
greasing the pans with butter. 

To prevent the odor of cabbage or onion throw red pepper 
pods into the pan they are cooking in. 

Save liquor from pickled peaches or pears for use in mince 
meat. 

Clean flatirons with salt, if rusty use kerosene. 

Cracker crumbs cannot be compared to bread crumbs for 
breading, either in crispness or flavor. 

In steaming puddings, potpies or dumplings never remove 
the cover from the steamer until done, for they will fall. 

The frugal housewife has the bones and trimmings from her 
meats sent home from the market to be used for soup stock. 

Wash chamois skin in tepid water. Rinse and when partly 
dry stretch the skin again and it will be like new. 

To prevent the juice of pies from running out bind the edge 
of the pie when ready for the oven with a strip of cotton cloth 
1 inch wide, wet in cold water. 

Cut hot bread or cake with a hot knife. 

A little cold boiled coffee or turpentine mixed with stove 
blacking will produce a fine gloss. 

Always remove fruit or vegetables from the cans as soon as 
opened. 

If hot grease is spilled on the floor pour turpentine on it and 
it will soon disappear. 

Add a little dissolved borax to starch and it will give a fine 
polish. 

In making mush to fry, use part milk with the water. It 
will be richer and brown more readily. 

When the whites of eggs are used and the yolks not required 
at the same time, drop them into a cup, cover the surface with 
a little cold water, place in a cool place and they will keep 



several days without hardening. 



36 



"Bntter the size of an egg' is a common expression. This 
equals about H o^ ^ cupful, or 2 ounces or 1 heaping table- 
spoonful. 

Boil green vegetables in salted water until done, and then 
put in cold water. You can keep green vegetables fresh this 
way for several days. Use them afterward in a like manner 
as canned vegetables. 

To keep ants from the pantry sprinkle powdered borax upon 
the shelves. 

To prevent cake from burning set a pan of water in the oven. 

Spinach is valuable for its juices, which contain potash salts 
and when tender and well cooked is especially suited for those 
who need laxative food. 

While boiling corn beef put in a half cup of vinegar. 

A little lemon juice stewed with prunes adds flavor to them. 

In choosing a husband you should not be guided by the 
silverv appearance, as in buying mackerel ; nor in the golden 
tint, as if you wanted a salmon. Be sure to select him yourself, 
as tastes differ. 

GARNISHES, 

For oysters, sardines, fish, roast veal or salads, lemon slices 
make a desirable garnish. For cold meats, chops and cutlets, 
parsley or celery tops. 

For decorating fowl nothing better than watercress can be 
used. Balls made of boiled rice with jelly on each are attractive 
on a plate of cold meat. 

In garnishing cold corned beef sliced gherkins and large 
pickles sliced make an attractive garnish. For game, cold 
tongue, fried oysters or roast veal, currant jelly is used as 
garnish. 

Never under any circumstances serve a heavy soup at a 
luncheon. 

MINT SAUCE FOR LAMB. 

One-half teacup vinegar boiled with 2 teaspoonfuls sugar 
and poured over 1 tablespoonful mint leaves (chopped) and 
let it stand until cold. 

137 



With roast beef serve horseradish. 

With roast mutton mint sauce. 

With boiled mutton, caper sauce. 

With roast pork, apple sauce. 

With roast turkey serve cranberries. 

With roast duck, currant jelly. 

With roast goose serve spiced currants. 



DIET FOR RHEUMATICS, 

FCmBIDDEN. 

All dark, heavy meats ; beef, pork, mutton, venison, goose, 
lobster, crabs, sugar, tomatoes, cucumbers, all salads that have 
a vinegar dressing. Stimulants of all kinds are poison to the 
rheumatic system. 

ALLOWED. 

Chicken, turkey, lamb, game, fish, sweetbreads, brains, 
poached or soft boiled eggs, oysters, clams, peas, green beans, 
carrots, turnips and well cooked greens. All mild fruits, 
cracked wheat, oatmeal, rice, health bread, toast. For drinks, 
lithia water and milk, either hot or cold ; cocoa. 

FOR SPRAINS. 

Beat up white of an egg and sprinkle over it ^ teaspoonful 
powdered alum. Spread on coarse brown paper and bind on 
the affected part. 



CHAFING DISH, 

''As that historic barque, long knozvn as Noah's Ark, 
Was ailed with choice samples of fozvl, Hesh and fish; 
So zve in modern ages, conning these printed pages, 
Compass like miracles with the Chafing Dish" 

BABOON. 

Ingredients, — One can of tomatoes (thoroughly drained in 
colander), 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 teaspoonful of onion 
juice, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 saltspoonful of white pepper, 
unbeaten raw eggs to equal the number of guests. 

138 



Directions. — Place in chafing dish the butter, salt, pepper and 
onion juice, and when well blended add the tomatoes. Cover 
and cook thoroughly (usually about 10 minutes). Then add 
from a bowl the eggs and stir gently until the eggs set. Serve 
quickly on crackers, toast or triscuits. Usually from 8 to 12 
eggs are used to 1 can of tomatoes. Avoid cooking too long 
after the eggs are added, else the mixture may curdle. A 
"baboon " of this nature is recommended as being inexpensive, 
palatable and easily digested, and convenient, as the ingre- 
dients are usually to be found when needed. 

Kate Gordon Hewett. 

RAREBIT. 

One pound cheese cut fine. 2 teaspoon fuls salt, 1 cup milk, 
butter size walnut, small teaspoon of mustard, dash red pepper, 
2 eggs well beaten. Melt cheese and butter, add salt, mustard 
and pepper. When all is melted add milk gradually and the 
eggs last. Pour over toasted bread and add a dash of paprika. 

Mrs. H. V. Wood. 

LOBSTER A LA NEUBERG. 
Meat of 1 boiled lobster cut into dice, good sized piece of 
butter, 1 pint of cream, yolks of 2 eggs, wine glass of sherry. 
Put the lobster in the chafing dish with the butter and stir until 
the butter is melted and lobster heated through. Mix the sherry 
with the cream and yolks of eggs : pour over lobster and cook 
until thick like cream. Mrs. A. M. Collins. 

DREAM CAKES. 
Dip thin slices of buttered bread in well beaten tg^. Then 
slice thin some good American cheese (preferably Herkimer 
County), sprinkle with red pepper and make sandwiches. Fry 
the sandwiches brown in butter in chafing dish, turning care- 
fully with fork so the sandwiches will not fall apart. Serve 
immediately. Mrs. C. A. Burton. 

SHREDDED HAM WITH CURRANT JELLY SAUCE. 
One-half cup butter, 1-3 cup currant jelly, few grains cay- 
enne, ]/^ cup sherry wine, 1 cup cold cooked ham cut in small 
strips. -Put butter and currant jelly in the chafing dish. As 
soon as melted, add cayenne, wine and ham. Simmer 5 
minutes. Mrs. Cary. 

139 



CLAMS WITH GREEN PEPPERS. 

Put 1 tablespoon ful butter, 2 tablespoon fuls chopped onion, 
4 tablespoonfuls finely chopped peppers in chafing dish and 
cook without browning-. Add Yi cupful strained clam juice, 
y2 teaspoonful salt, a dash of paprika and 1 dozen finely 
chopped clams. Simmer for 5 minutes and pour over hot 
buttered toast. 

FISH A LA PROVENCALE. 

One-quarter cup butter, 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 2 cups milk, 
yolks of 4 hard boiled eggs, 1 teaspoonful Anchovy essence, 2 
cups cold boiled flaked fish. Make a sauce of butter, flour and 
milk. IMash yolks of eggs and mix with Anchovy essence ; 
add to sauce, then add fish. Serve soon as heated. Mrs. Cary. 

FINNAN HADDIE. 

Take a finnan haddock, boil and pick up. Place in chafing- 
dish with aboTit a tablcspoonful butter; let heat through, then 
add 1 cup cream, yolk of a raw egg, tablcspoonful grated cheese 
and about 1 cup cream sauce and cook cream with salt and 
pepper and dash cayenne, if liked ; just before covering add the 
grated yolk of 2 hard boiled eggs. Serve on small pieces of 
toast. Mrs. Gcorf!;e E. Watson. 

CREAMED FINNAN HADDIE. 

Take a finnan haddie weighing about 2 pounds. Put it 
flesh side down in a dripping pan and pour boiling water over 
it, let stand until cold. Then pick up the haddie (the white 
])art only) and braise in a chafing dish with 2 tablespoons of 
butter. Have ready 3 hard boiled eggs cut up in small pieces. 
Make a sauce of 1 pint milk, 1 tablcspoonful butter and 2 
tablespoonfuls of corn starch, wet in a, little of the milk. 
Season with saltspoon salt, 3 or 4 dashes of paprika. Add 
sauce to the haddie, and when boiling add eggs. You can 
also add i/ wine glass sherry when ready to serve : or grated 
cheese is very nice sprinkled over it. Serve on toast. 

SHRIMP WIGCxLE. 

One can of shrimps with the black lines removed and broken 
in half, 1 can of peas. Make a cream sauce after any good 

140 



recipe Cook the shrimps in butter in the chafing dish for 10 
n-.inutes; add the peas and sauce. Let it boil up once. Serve 
on toast. Add a wine glass of sherry at the last if desirecl 

Mrs. IViIbur Flum. 

FOR CHAFING DISH. 
For 1 can shrimps take K> onion grated, /^ cup boiled rice, 
1/2 cup cream, 1 tablespoon tomato catsup, 1 tablespoon butter. 
/ ^ Julia L. Schociithalcr. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 
Put 2 tablespoons butter into chafing dish and melt. When 
it is bubbling hot lav in 2 dozen oysters that have been dramed 
Cook until the edges of the oysters are ruffled, add 1 teaspoonful 
salt, a dash of red pepper, squeze in the jnice of a lemon, and 
serve at once on hot buttered toast. C. 1. tierricR. 

CURRIED OYSTERS. 
Put the liquor drained from 1 quart of oysters into a sauce- 
pan, add K^ cup of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls ^^^'l^ .} /"^f^ 
tablespoon curry powder, well mixed. When boiled add 
oysters, season with salt and a dash of paprika. Let come to 
a boil and serve on salted wafers or toast. 

OYSTERS ALGONQUIN. 
Take 3 stalks celery, clean and chop fine. Put 3 tablespoons 
butter in chafing dish, add celery and cook well. Add 1 cup 
of cream, season with salt and pepper. When it comes to a 
boil add 1 dozen large oysters and cook until the edges of the 
oysters curl. Add 1 cordial glass of sherry, if liked. Serve on 
squares of toast. 

LOBSTER WTTH OLIVE SAUCE. 
One cupful of stock made from Armour's Extract of Beef 
1 tablespoonful of butter, 2 cups of cooked lobster meat 3 
drops of onion extract, 1 tablespoonful of flour 1 dozen stuffed 
olives /s teaspoonful of sherry, 1 teaspoonful of Worcester- 
shire 'sauce. P>rown butter, add flour, stir until smooth let 
brown Add stock and olives cut in pieces; stir until thick. 
When it begins to thicken add lobster cut in pieces with silver 
knife Cook until heated through, add seasoning and serve. 



EGGS A LA CURRACCAS. 

One-fourth pound dried beef chopped fine, 1 tablespoonful 
minced onion, 1 cup stewed tomatoes, 2 tablespoonfuls grated 
cheese, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 4 raw and 2 hard boiled eggs, 
y^ teaspoon of salt, dash of cayenne. Put onion first in the 
melted butter, then tomatoes, beef, eggs, cheese and seasoning, 
each in quick succession. Stir like scrambled eggs. Serve on 
very flaky crackers or toast squares. Garnish with the hard 
boiled eggs, sliced. A dish for the gods. 

Henrietta G. Daniels, Dozvners Grove. 

CHICKEX FILLINX^ FOR PATTIES. 

One pint of cream or milk, 1 tablespoon of flour, 1 pint 
cooked chicken cut in small pieces, 4 tablespoons chopped 
mushrooms, season. Put 3^ pint of cream to boil, mix other ^ 
pint of milk with flour, stir in boiling cream. When boiled up 
once add chicken. Mrs. William H. G. Logan. 

VEAL WITH ASPARAGUS TIPS. 

Two cups very tender veal, roast or stew ; 1 cup of cooked 
asparagus tips ; 1 tablespoon of butter, yolks of two hard boiled 
eggs, 1 half pint of milk, salt, white pepper. Rub the yolks and 
butter to a paste and heat it with the milk in chafing dish, stir- 
ring until thoroughly blended. I'ut in veal and asparagus with 
salt and pepper. Cook 5 minutes. Mrs. IV-. H. G. Logan. 



CELERIED OYSTERS. 

One pint oysters, 1-3 cu.p melted butter, j/. cup fine cracker 
crumbs, 1}<^ cups of thin white sauce, 2 stalks celery chopped 
fine, salt and pe]:)per, 4 slices of toast. Wash the oysters, drain 
and dry between towels. Season with salt and pepper, dip in 
melted l)uttcr, then in fine cracker crumbs. Cook in a hot but- 
tered chafing dish. Arrange on toast, pour white sauce and 
sprinkle with celery. 

White Sauce — Melt 2 tablespoonfuls butter, add two table- 
spoonsful flour, 54 teaspoonful each of salt and pepper, then 
gradually one cup of scalded milk. Mrs. H. V. Wood. 

142 



A NICE LUNCHEON DISH. 
(Fine for the Chafing Dish.) 
One tablespoon butter, 1 cup rich milk, 1 cup fine bread 
crumbs, 2 cups grated cheese (use Herkimer cream), salt- 
spoon dry mustard. Let butter melt, add milk, crumbs, cheese 
and salt and cayenne to taste, then the mustard. When all is 
blended well, add 2 eggs well beaten. Simmer Yz moment, then 
serve. Henrietta G. Daniels, Dozvners Grove, III. 

ANOTHER. 
To serve poached eggs from the chafing dish, have water 
boiling in bottom pan of your chafing dish. Take the individual 
little pans (with handles and the holder) from a "patent t^g 
poacher," set in chafing dish, butter each dish, break in eggs, 
salt each and cover. Steam 2 minutes or as well done as liked. 
Original. H. G. Daniels. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS AND CHICKEN. 

Parboil a sweetbread and cut in ^ inch cubes. Reheat with 
equal parts of cold cooked chicken and 2 cups white sauce. 

Mrs. George Gary. 

EGGS WITH CHEESE. 
Two hard boiled eggs, ^ cup of grated cheese, 1 tablespoon 
of butter, j^ cup of milk, 1 teaspoonful of flour, a little salt 
and pepper. Make a white sauce of butter, flour, milk, salt and 
pepper; then add to the sauce the grated cheese and eggs 
chopped fine. Serve on toast. Strong Herkimer, County or 
Edam cheese is best. Harriet M. Macomher. 



BEVERAGES, 

''And we II iak a cup o' kiiidncss yet, 
For auld lang syne." 

EGG NOGG. 
Beat the yolks of 5 eggs until very light and add 6 even 
tablespoonfuls sugar and beat thoroughly with the yolks. Add 
5 tablespoonfuls brandy and 1 pint of cream that has just been 
whipped, and, last of all, the beaten whites of 5 eggs. Stir 
lightly, just enough to mix well. Ida S. Dozvns. 



CURRANT CORDIAL. 

Pour 1 quart be^t whiskey upon 1 pound bruised currants 
and 1 ounce white ginger root, bruised ; let it stand 24 hours, 
then strain through a flannel bag; add 1^ pounds loaf sugar, 
and bottle when the sugar is dissolved. Excellent for a chill. 

Mrs. G. A. So den. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Four quarts red raspberries, enough vinegar to cover, let 
stand 24 hours, scald and strain. Add a pint of sugar to a pint 
of juice; boil 20 minutes and bottle; is then ready for use and 
will keep years. To 1 glass of water add a large spoonful. 

Lillie I. Lczvis. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB. 

- Soak 3 quarts of very ripe berries in 1 quart of pure cider 
vinegar for 24 hours ; strain and to the liquid add 3 quarts fresh 
berries; let stand 12 hours, strain again, add 1 pound sugar 
to each pint of the liquid, boil 20 minutes. Bottle, and when 
using, put 1 tablespoonful into a glass of water. 

CIDER PUNCH. 
One cup sugar, i^ of water and 1 of sherry wine ; slice in 2 
lemons ; stir until dissolved and add 1 quart of cider. 

HOP BEER. 
One handful of hops, 2i^ gallons water, boil an hour, strain, 
add 1 pint of molasses. When milk warm add a cake of yeast. 
Let stand over night. Skim and pour it off from the yeast 
carefullv. Add 1 tablespoonful of wintergrecn. Bottle. 

L. /. Lezvis. 

GINGER BEER. 

Slice a lemon, bruise ^ ounce ginger root, l^A pounds white 
sugar, 1 ounce tartaric acid, ly. gallons of water boiled and 
poured over the ingredients ; when cool add a cake of yeast and 
let stand in a warm place for 12 hours ; bottle and tie down the 
corks. Ready for use in 2 days. 

144 



The North End Club 

Recommends the Following 
Advertisers to Your Patronage 



MS 



Between Chicago and 

Milwaukee 
on the Northwestern 

Railroad 
Facing Lake Michigan 







Chicago Office 

70 STATE STREET 

Tuesdays 2 to 4 

Telephone Central 500 



j. jt B ! -?^ 



The Pennoyer Sanitarium 



KENOSHA, WIS. 



The ideal resting place combining country life, city comforts and the 
safety of the best medical skill and nursing. 

For detail information or booklet address the managers 

N. A. PENNOYER. M. D. G. F. ADAMS. M. D. 



''They Lace in Front" 


Tel. Central 1597 Pianos to Rent 


^^k KELLY 


JOHN A. BRYANT 


Millinery 

^ and Gowns 


PIANO DEALER 


1st Premium Wegman 


2577 EVANSTON 
^:^:-V.- j AVENUE 


Haines Brothers 

Foster & Co. 

Favorite Bryant 

Armstrong Piano Co. 

Marshall & Wendel 

Second Hand Pianos of Different Makes 


The H. W. G. 


138-140 WABASH AVENUE 

NEAR MADISON STREET 


1 ,,. . , , .1 Also Agents for 
%m _ ''^ ' L'IRRESISTIBLE" 


Take Elevator to 2(1 Floor CHICAGO 



46 



Try this Recipe for 

MOTHERS OATS wafers 

Sift together 2 cups of flour ; 1 teaspoonful 
salt; 1 teaspoon baking powder, and 2 tea- 
spoons sugar. Add 1 cup of MOTHERS 
OATS. Mix in with the tips of the fingers 1 
tablespoon of lard and 2 tablespoons of butter, 
softened, but not melted. Moisten with very 
cold water until just soft enough to roll. Roll 
as thin as cardboard; cut in oblongs three 
inches by one inch. Bake in moderately hot 
oven about eight minutes. 

MOTHERS 0AT5 

are always good 

''The memory of quality remains long after the price is forgotten." 

THE GREAT WESTERN CEREAL CO. 



OUR MOTTO I A pleased customer is 
the best advertisemeat 



ONLY FIRST-CLASS WORK 
DONE IN REPAIRING OF 

Watches, Clocks, 
Jewelry, Etc. 



clocks Called for and Delivered 
(free of charge.) 

ALL WORK GUARANTEED 



Trees, Shrubs and Soil. 
Floral Work of All Kinds. 



STOLLERY BROS. 

Florists 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL 
GROWERS OF 

Cut Flowers and Plants 



Green Houses and Store: 

2054 Southport Avenue 
Tel. Sheridan 1023 



E. J. SAMUELSON, 

Jeweler, 

I 224 Bryn Mawr Avenue 



Sales Room; 



with Flower Growers Co., 

60 Wabash Avenue 
Tel. Central 3067 

CHICAGO. ILL. 



147 



The Fair's Grocery 

A Grocery That Aims stt Perfection. 



WE carry all the well-known brands. Have noth- 
ing to substitute as "just as good." 1 The 
purity of our food products is our special pride, and 
we patronize only those makers whose reliability is 
well established. 

The low prices for which our grocery is famous are 
possible because of the immense quantity of goods sold. 




air 



STATE, ADAMS and DEARBORN STS. 



CHICAGO 



Bowman Dairy Co* 




One of our Country Bottline Plants. 
Pure, Clean. CROM healthy cows fed on 
NA.*iir;v1 Millc proper food only, bottled 

natural i^iik ^^^^ sealed in the country un- 
der the most fovorable conditions. Shipped 
in refrigerator cars. Placed in the hands of 
consumers in original packages. 

Lake View office, 540-552 Berteau Ave. 

Phone, lake View 1001 



M. COLE 

Marshall Field Building 

Suite 822 CHICAGO 



Boulter and Company 

834 Marshall Field Building 



S'hirt tSe/aht^ 



Exclusive Models 



CHICAGO 



148 



Cochran & McCluer 

Real Estate, Loans, 
Renting ©Lnd Insura^nce 

Edgewater and North Shore Property a Specio^Uy 
107 DEARBORN STREET 



BrancK Offlo*: 
PKone Centre.! 931 Evanston and C«.talpfi Avcs. 



J. L. COCHRAN. Pres. W. F. QUINLAN, Secy, and Treas. 



Edgewater Coal Co. 



Dealers in 



Anthracite and Bituminous Coal 



Yards: Main Office: 

2612 Evanston Avenue 45-107 Dearborn Street 

Phone Lake View 135 Phone Cantral 931 



149 



We announce the successful estab- 
lishment in our store of a fresh meat 
department. You will find in this 
market perfection of service and a 
variety of delicious meats so priced as 
to claim your constant patronage. 
Investigation is respectfully invited. 

Rothschild 6 Company 



State and Van Burcn Sts. 



yoti shoxild ride 
on the 

Northwestern Elevated 
Railroad 



Co be ^ree _frofn the 
T>u^t and 'Dtrt of ihe SireeU 

Well-Lighted 
CleaLn, AttrsLctive Catrs 



Ph. P. Schlesswohl 



Albert U. Peteraon 



SCHIESSWOHL 
& PETERSON 

Choice Meats and 
High Grande Groceries 

41-45 Eve^nston Ave. 

Tel. Lake View 16 
Tel. Lake View 96 



EDGEWATER. 

1204-6 Bryn Mawr Ave. 
Tel. Lake View 220 



150 



Don't let anyone tell you that 
ordinary house paint or inside 
floor paint is "good enough" 
for porches, verandas, steps, etc. 

Watson's 
Porch Floor Paint 

IS THE ONLY THING TO USE 
ITS MADE IN FIVE SHADES 


Uhe 

LeaLvenwortK Co. 

(Not Inc.) 

41 State St., Chicago 

Hanufacture the finest Vanilla Extract on 
the market; exquisite in flavor and from 
the true Vanilla Bean 

The Leavenworth Baking Powder 

has proven very satistacfory, the 
quality leaves nothing to be desired. 
It is free from alum, phosphates 
and all cheapening admixtures. It 
is Pure Cream of Tartar and Soda. 

The Leavenworth Liquid Silver Polish 

is the most convenient and effective. 
It contains no harmful ingredient. 

The Alexandra Coffee 

is the best Coffee on the market 
irrespective of price. It is pract- 
ically a 40-cent Coffee for 25 cents. 
"Queen of all Coffees" 


Put up in Gallons. Half-Gallons a^nd QuaLrts 


GEO. E. WATSON CO. 

Paint and Color MaLkers 

108 La.ke Street :: CHICAGO 
Send for Sample Card 


Miss B. Lichtenstein 

1244 Bryn Mawr Ave. 
1218 Argyle Avenue ■ 


Ed^ewaLter Dairy 

Distributer of 

PVRE MILK 
and CREAM 


Bakery, Confectionery, 
Delicatessen 

Orders taken for Ice Cream 
Lowney's Box Candies 

We carry a complete stock of assorted 
Favors, Cake Laces and Almond 
Cups, Paper Cases and Paper Nap- 
kins, D'oyleys,Candles,Candle Holders 


Fresh Buttermilk Cottag^e Cheese 
Try Our XX Whipping Cream 

Phone II8J Irving 916 EDGEWATER PLACE 


Hoping: to be favored with your patronage 



151 



Edgewater Grocery 
Company 

JAMES MCMANUS 

Proprietor 



1246 Bryn Mawr Ave/ 



Phone, Lake View 104 



CHICAGO 



Phone, Lake View 667 



FRANK H. AHLBORN 



Prescription Drugfltst 



1202 Bfyn Mawr Ave, 



Cor, Evanston Ave. CHICAGO 



BAIRD & WARNER 

Evanston and Wilson Avenues 

(Adjoining " L" Terminal Station ) 



REAL ESTATE MORTGAGE LOANS 
RENTING INSURANCE 

Headquarters {or 

North Shore Property 



C. W, FOGG 

Manager 



T-, , . j Lake View 169 and 

1 clephoncs i Shcndan X 1661 



MAIN OFFICE / 90 LA SALLE STREET 



1S2 



GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY PURE 



CHOCOLAT- MENIER 

The Celebrated French Manilla Chocolate 

Used the world over for Breakfast and Soirees instead of 

Tea or Coffee. 

CACAO-MENIER 

MenJer's Breakfast Essence of Cocoa. 



Unites in a perfect 
form all qualities 

of a healthy 

and strengthening 

food. 



Menier's 





1 



SUPERFINE 



It is easily digested 
and is specially bene- 
ficial to people 
suffering from 
dyspepsia and weak 
nerves. 



Chocolates 



and Bon-Bons. 

Annual sales exceed 36,000,000 pounds. 
Grand Prix— Highest Award—St. Louis 1904. 

If not acquainted with manner of preparing Menier's Chocolate 
and Cocoa, write to 

250 W. 27th STREET, NEW YORK, or 
66 WABASH AVENUE, CHICAGO. 



MENIER, 



Thp North FnH Plllh ^^^°"^"^^°^s ^^"^^^'s Premium chocolate 



"Blue Label" unsweetened for all cooking 
purposes. 

Recommends Menier's Vaniila C^liocolate, "Yellow Label" sweetened for all 
drinking purposes. 



153 



Phone 1 j6i Ir-v'tJig 

PETER SIEG'L 

Late of Schmidt & Sieg'l 

Ladies' Tailor 



1878 Evanston Ave. CHICAGO 



Phone Qraceland 693 



North Shore Dye Works 



Dyeing, Scouring, 
Chemical Cleaning 



French Dry Cleaning 

RICHARD WAGNER, 

Proprietor 

1880 Evanston Ave., "Tveliue''" 

CHICAGO 



Orders by mall or express promptly attended 
to. Goods called for and delivered 



Telephone Lake View 525 



J. A. SCHIESSWOHL 



Market and Groceries 




2178-80 Evanston Avenue 



CHICAGO 



154 



Peterson's Trees 

Well known 3Lnd home grown 

Ornamental Trees, Flowering Shrubs, 

Climbing Vines, Hardy Fruits and 

Herbaceous Plants for Immediate Effect 



Nursery just west of EdgewaL<er. GIVE VS A TRIAL 



We give advice regarding tlie location of stock 
purchased of us 



City Office; 

108 La Salle Street 

Du«„«. j riain 4162 
'^*'°""1 Automatic 5462 



PETERSON NURSERY 
Lincoln and Peterson Avenues 

Phone Lake View 103 



Phone 1794 Graceland 



High Grade Distemper Tinting 

HERMAN KEAN & CO. 

Decorating and Painting 
Interior Finish 



a: 



1872 Evanston Avenue 

Near Wiison Ave. CHICAGO 



Phone Irvinsr 1771 



Kalbas Dairy Co. 

Dealers in 

Pure Milk, Cream 
and Butter 



^ 



610=612 Melrose St. 
CHICAQO : : ILLINOIS 



155 



Thone Ir-Oing 1152 



Elizabeth S. Smith 

Exclusive Designs in 

Millinery * » * * 



Near Wilson 



1926 Evanston Are, 



Manicuring Shampooing 

Facial Massage 

Blemishes of 
Skin and Complexion Removed 

By Electricity or X=Ray 



Engagements by Phone 
Call Irving 1152-874 

Sole Agent for Mrs. R. W. Allen's Toilet Goods 

JENNIE NEELY 

Parlor: 

1926 Evanston Ave. 
Near Wilson 



L.KOROPP Pres 
H.KOROPP Sec>iTrec.j 




PHONE 

LAKE VIEW 589. 



FLORALfe 



GREENHOUSES -<o 
B"RANCn OFFICE 
252 VV. RAVENSWOOD PARK AVE 




^ARTISTIC/ 

FLORAL 
DESIGNERS^ 



MAIN OFFICE and 



^ GREENHOUSES 
1860-1870 EVAN5T0N AVE. 



156 



Regilding Framing 

Manufacturing 



Q.U.GAIRINQ 

jftne Hits 



stores and Factory: 

1720=22 North Clark Street 

CHICAGO. ILL. 
Phone Lake View 1086 



Branch Store 

r-.^ . Corner 

801 Dempster Street snerman a 

EVANSTON, ILLINOIS 
Telephone 770 



Fine Hand Work 

Lincoln Hand Laundry 

1886 Evanston Avenue 

Phone Sheridan 1663 



Branch Store: 

510=512 North Clark Street 

Phone North 588 



803 Dempster Street 

EVANSTON, ILLINOIS 

Phone 770 Evanston 




ITHE GEO.WITTBOLD COMPANY 




GARDENING 



1657-1659 BUCKINGHAM PLACE 

CHICAGO. 

Telephone Lake View 557 and 558 



Growers of 

TROPICAL PLANTS 



Greenhouses and Nursery 

EDGEBROOK, ILLINOIS 

Phone Irving: Park 784 



157 



GEORGE LILL, President W. W. LILL, Vice Prest. GEO. H. LILL, Secy & Treas. 



George Lill Coal Co. 

Office : 

39 to 67 Chester Street 

Cor. Clybourn and Ashland Aves. 

CHICAGO 

POCAHONTAS COAL 



Telephone North 1880 

Private Exchange All Departments 



Dock and Railyards: 

Clybourn and Ashland Aves 



Edgewater Yards: 2134 Evanston Ave. 


Phone North 1527 


Telephone 630 


Orders Called for and 
Delivered Same Day 




A. W. POPP 


North Shore 


.GROCER.. 


Creamery 


1425 Diversey Boulevard 

Cor. Best Ave. 

CHICAGO, ILL. 


Butter and E^gs, Tea ai\d Coffee 

Cottatge Cfieese, Fresh 

Dressed Poultry 




Delivered in Edgewater and Ar^yle PsjLrk 


Our Specialty: 


Tuesday and Friday 


Teas, Coffees, Butter and Eggs 


805 Dempster Street. EVANSTON 



158 



'Retail 



PITKIN <a BROOKS 



Corner 
LaKe and 
Si ale Si J. 




IRicb Cut (5la86 



The Dinner cannot be Well Served 
without 

Pretty Table China. 



We serve our patrons from Haviland, Guerin, 

Minton, Cauldon, Wedgwood and the German 

Factories, and 

Otir Trices are Reasonable 



Tcl. Graccland 1831 



All Our Milk is FUtered 



1/ Quality is Desired Patr 



STAPLES DAIRY CO. 

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 

PURE 

Milk and Cream 

BOTTLED MILK 

A Specialty 

Rose Brand Cr eamery Butter 

DEPOT 

2792 and 2794 N. Robey St. 



p. MUNO 



J. H, MUNO 



Sheridan Drive Club 
Livery and 
Boarding Stable 



MUNO BROS. 



Carriage Cadi 
Telephone. La^ke View^ 116 



Receive Prom? Mention CHICAGO' 2614-16 Ridge AVC. EvaSsto"n Ave. 



159 



Phone Douglas 888 

Tlie Home 
Delicacies Association 

Is prepared to receive 
orders in the various 
branches of society 
catering and to supply 
new and exclusive ideas 
in Menus and Table 
Appointments for all 
varieties of SOCIAL 
FUNCTION S 


Where does it ^o? 

Get one of our 

Family Expense Books 

25 and 50 cents each 


They keep the family happy by 
showing where the money goes 


STEVENS, MALONEY ^ CO. 

Stationers and Printers 
143 LaSalle St., Chicago 


2970 Qroveland Avenue 

CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 


AUG. SAEHN. Pres. R. NOELCK, Sec.-Treas. 

North Shore 
Safe Deposit Co. 

August Saehn & Company 

2566-68 Evanston Ave. 

Safety Deposit Vaults, Insurance 
Savings Deposits 

Vhone LaK« V/«to 98S 

Boxes. $3.00 per yeaLt and upwaLfd. 
3 per cent per aLnnum on Savings Deposits 


Member of Chicago Loans made on Good 

Real Estate Real Estate 

Board Security 

W. J. Lukens 

'Real Estate 
and Insurance 

1218 ChaLmber of Commerce 
CHICAGO 


Telephone Main 3595 

Lake View and North Shore Property 
a SpecieiLhy 



160 



Established 1864 

PKon© North 1348 

£. R. ScKHck 

"Dealer in_fine domejiic 
and imported 

KitcKeA Vtensils ai\d 
Housefuri\isKing Goods 




437 North Clark Street, CKiceLgo. 111. 



Artistic Hanging of Lambrequins and 
Laces. Shades, Rods, Poles, etc. Spring 
Beds. Mattresses, Slip Covers and Carpets 
to order and repaired. 



Herm.Wunderlich 

\/pholsterer 
and 'Decorator 

Estimates on request 



1794 North Halsted Street 
opp. Ne^vport Ave. 

CHICAGO 



Phone 
Graceland 435 



For 12 years with 
MARSHALL FIELD & CO- 



Chicken, Lobster eind Shrimp Salads made 
to order. 

Special Rates for Parties, 
Weddings, etc. 



Garben^GrollCo. 

Confectionery 

FoLncy Batkery 
Ice Crea^ms acnd Catfe 



PKone North 396 
PKone North 393 



176 North Clark Street. Chicago. III. 



Alston's 

Veranda Lac 

A Paint prepared especially 
for Porch Furniture, Lawn 
Swings, Seats, etc. Two 
Permanent, Quick - Drying 
Shades 

Green and Vermilion 

The Alston M'n'f'g Co. 

CHICAGO, ILL. 

Crushers of Flaxseed and Manufacturers of 
all grades of Paint and Dry Colors. 



161 



Our Great Grocery 

Occupies the Entire Sixth Floor 
EVERYTHING FRESH, PURE AND CLEAN 



Comf)lete Lines of the 
CHOICEST STAPLE AND FANCY 

GROCERIES 

FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 

DELICATESSEN 

SMOKED MEATS 

FRESH MEATS, Etc, Etc, 

PRICES ARE ALWAYS LOWEST HERE 



BOSTON STORE 



STATE and 

MADISON 



Telephone, 2161 Central 



7 A.M. to 7:30 P.M. 



THE 

Mrs. Clark Co. 

LVNCH ROOM 



For 
LADIES and GENTLEMEN 

BREAKFAST DINNER SUPPER 

Home Cooking and Catering 

A?1SL 153 Michigan Ave, 



R, S. CritcheU Bavier C, Miller Chas. P. Whitney 
Kossuth Marks Lyman M. Drake Frank Barbour 



CRITCHELL 

MILLER 

WHITNEY & 
BARBOUR 

Fire Insurance 



ESTABLISHED 1868 



138 to 144 La Salle St, CHICAGO 



162 



PARIS NEW YORK ST. GATT 

Styer Lace & Drapery 
Company 

Home Furnishers and Decorators 
Importers and Makers 

Real Lace Curtains and Draperies 

Special Furniture 
and Hand Tufted Rugs to order 

175^ Michigan Ave. 

Railway Exchange Building 



Phone Hao-rison 3509 



CHICAGO 



Phone Central 5842 



^he 



Cleverly Corset 

Made to Order 



Insuring to our patrons all the 
latest effects in figure required in 
the fitting of gowns. Endorsed by 
Chicago's Leading Dressmakers 



A. M. CLEVERLY 



1022 Masonic Temple 



CHICAGO 



Chicago Office: 

157 W. Washington St. 



^ 



f 




^he 
Household 
j^ecessity 




JAP''A''LAC stains and varnishes by one 
application. It is the most durable finish on 
the market for floors, ail kinds of interior wood 
work, etc., where extreme durability is required. 

It is a great reviver of old wood work, 
furniture, etc., as it covers up all mars, scratches 
or disfigurements, producing a brilliant and 
beautiful finish and can be successfully applied 
by an inexperienced person. It is not affected 
by hot or cold water, nor by soap and water, 
and does not mar white or show heel marks 
when used on floors. The colors are as foUowss 

Oak, Walnut, Mahogany, Cherry, Malachite 
Green, Ox-Blood Red, Brilliant Black, Dead 
Black, Natural or Clear, Gloss White, Flat 
White, Ground and Empire Blue. 

Manufactured only by 

The Glidden VarnisK Co. 



163 



ClevelaLnd, Ohio 

















■IliU'MlU 








1 ISTATE&WASHWGTOHSTSJJI 


the entire 




Our Pure 


Food Departments occupy 




Fifth Flooi 
We supply 


** 


ig and the 




the tables of the discernir 




critical 
Our hygiei 




ry, perfect 




nic restaurant, modern dai 




meat market, and high grade bakery are objects 






of interest to every woman, 




Telefhoyn\ North 2^4 


PRICE LIST 

"Carlota" Coffee 

3-Pound Can $ 1.00 


Burton F. White 


CATERER 


5-Ponnd Can 1.65 

10-Pound Can 3.25 


567 North Clark Street 

Near Schiller 


25-Pound Can 8.00 

50-Pound Can 15.00 

"Carlota" Coffee is put up in 


Most Careful and Artistic Service 
in Chicago for 

WEDDINGS 

RECEPTIONS 

CHILDREN'S PARTIES 

DELICIOUS 

Ice Creams, Ices and Cakes 


sealed tin cans — we grow every 
pound of coffee sold under the 
name "Carlota." 




Csifetal "CARLOTA^Co. 

Order in person, by mailer ofourwagoa salesman 




for family orders 


Telephone, Central 3J90 


Catalogue upon Request 


Office, Room 310 - - 42 RIVER STREET 



164 



OLQA QOLDZIER 

Maker of Gowns 


RdLndolpK MdLfket ^ 
Grocery 


Tailor- Made Gowns a 


52 ©Lnd 54 State St. 


Specialty 


Finest Store of its 
kind in Illinois. 


Suite 908 Masonic Temple 

Telephone Market 1236 

CHICAGO 


Complete line of 
Groceries, Wines, 
Liquors, Meats, 
Butter and Delica- 
cies. Prompt de- 
livery to all parts 
of the city. 




E-Oery Hay is a 
Children's "Day at 



U/?e Chicago 
Childrea's 
Store 

Everything that Infants 
and Children wear from 
Head to Foot including 
many Novelties not 
found elsewhere. 

A. STARR. BEST 

107 State St. 
CHICAGO 

Telephone 4070 Central 



165 



(MILWAUKEE 



KENOSHA 

'Vi'lNTHROP HARBOR 

~^ CAMP LOGAN 

Z»ON CITY 

BEACH 

%^'V WAUKEGAN 

^h, ^^x NO.CHICAGO 

fl^' LAKE FOREST 

iOQkCFELL&R FORT SHERIDAN 

HIGHWOOO 

jilGHLANO PARK 

RAVIN I A 

GLENCOE 

LAKESIDE 

.WINNETKA 

KENILWORTH 

, WILMETTE 

EVANSTON 

CHICAGO 




Ravinia 
Park 



A platce of recreaiioA 
and entertainment for 
people of culture aLivd 
refinenvent. ^ ^ 



^ 



Concerts 



E*Oery^ ^yiJ"ternoon and RHJentng 

Entrance from Sheridan Road and Green Bay Road 
for Automobiles and Carriages 

Liocated at 

HIGHLAND PARK 

Along the Chicago & Milwaukee Electric Railroad 



166 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




iiiiilli iiiiii 



ho; I ohm* Phi, 



- 1QK 



V 



UNIVERSITY OF 

ILLINOIS L'^RARY 

ATURBANA ^PAIGN 

OAKSiK^ET 

LIBRARY FACILITY 



CORNER BOOK SHOP 

102 FOURTH AVENUE 



$*'$" &yt*^ c*2*&. 



The North End Club 

COOK BOOK 



A COLLECTION OF 

CHOICE AND TESTED RECIPES. 



Compiled and Arranged 
By Ladies of the Club. 



PUBLISHED BY 

STEVENS, MALONEY & CO., 

Chicago, Illinois, 

1905. 



Copyrighted 1905 

BY 

THE NORTH END CLUB 
Chicago. 






CONTENTS. 



Soups 9- 14 

Bread, Biscuit, Waffles and Muffins, Etc 14-20 

Sandwiches 21- 26 

Vegetables 26- 36 

Omelets, Eggs and Cheese 36- 40 

Fish 40-46 

Meats and Poultry 46- 61 

Salads 61-75 

Pastry 75-81 

Puddings 81-91 

Pudding Sauces 91- 93 

Cake. 93-109 

Small Cakes, Cookies and Doughnuts 109-114 

Ices and Ice Cream . 114-120 

Preserves 120-124 

Pickles .... 124-127 

Candy 127-135 

Things Worth Knowing -. 135-138 

Chafing Dish .' 138-143 

Beverages 143-144 



FOREWORD, 

With much pleasure the ladies of The North End Club pre- 
sent this little volume of tested recipes to the public, hoping 
that it may prove a true friend. 

Originality is not claimed for it. Each one has chosen of the 
best from her store with the consciousness of sharing with an- 
other some of the joys of life. 



APPETIZERS, 

"Nor love thy life, nor hate, but whilst thou livest, live well." 

FRUIT COCKTAIL. 

Peel and cut 2 tart apples into dice, cut 2 oranges into halves 
and scoop out pulp. Cut canned pineapple into small pieces. 
Mix fruit, add juice of 1 lemon, 1 small glass sherry wine and 
sugar to taste. Chill thoroughly, and when ready to serve, put 
in cold sherbet glasses, add 3 Maraschino cherries to each glass, 
and 1 teaspoon Maraschino wine, with 1 teaspoon chopped ice. 

Mrs. Hubbard. 

GRAPE FRUIT. 

Take medium size grape fruit, cut in half, take out pulp and 
juice. Sweeten pulp and juice to taste, put back in half shells, 
add 3 Maraschino cherries and tablespoonful Maraschino wine. 
Serve very cold. Mrs. Fred. Cain. 



SOUPS, 

"Oh, that this too too solid flesh would melt. 
Thaw and resolve itself into a dew!'{ 

POT AU FEU. 
(Hot Soup, Clear.) 

Two to three quarts soup stock, 2 carrots, 1 onion, one-half 
head of cabbage, 1 leek and some celery. Slice vegetables quite 
fine and let them cook in boiling water until quite soft, then let 
them drip through a strainer. Put vegetables in sauce pan or 
kettle, pour over the necessary quantity of stock and allow to 
cook slowly for \y 2 hours. 

GREEN CORN SOUP. 

Cut corn from the cob until you have at least 1 pint (or use 
Out of corn season 1 pint canned corn). Cover it with a quart 
of milk, let simmer 20 minutes and add 1 fresh egg well beaten, 
good piece of butter and salt and pepper to taste. Serve with 
croutons. 



MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Boil 1 pound calf's liver and 2 pounds of veal 2 hours, skim- 
ming well, then strain. Chop the meat fine and add to it 1 
small onion chopped, salt, pepper and ground cloves to taste, 
thickening all with browned flour. Let all boil up together. 
Put a slice of lemon and quarter of hard boiled egg in each dish 
and pour soup over when ready to serve. Mrs. Hubbard. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Two carrots, 2 turnips, 3 onions, 2 heads celery, 5 or 6 pota- 
toes, \y 2 pints milk. Prepare all the vegetables and cut them 
up in small pieces, put in saucepan with 2 quarts of water and 
boil for 2 hours. Rub through a sieve, season rather highly, 
put back in the saucepan with the milk and x / 2 pint of the liquor 
the vegetables were cooked in. Boil 10 minutes and serve. 

BAKED SOUP. 

Cut beef from the neck into small pieces, also vegetables of 
any kind, and put all into a clean jar like a bean pot with one 
pint of peas and rice. Pour in four quarts of water, set in oven 
to bake for two hours, then strain and serve with hot noodles. 

CLAM SOUP. 

One can minced clams (Pioneer brand), 1 quart of milk. 
Add clams to hot milk and bring to a boil. Season highly with 
salt, pepper, a little onion juice, and serve piping hot. 

Mrs. Genevieve Bookwalter. 

DUCHESS SOUP. 

Four cups white stock (water in which fowl or chicken is 
cooked), 2 slices of carrot cut in cubes, 2 slices onion, 2 blades 
mace, y 2 cup grated mild cheese, 1-3 cup butter, % cup flour, 
2 cups scalded milk, 1 teaspoon salt, }i teaspoon pepper. Cook 
vegetables 3 minutes in \y 2 tablespoons butter, then add stock 
and mace, boil 15 minutes, strain and add milk. Thicken with 
remaining butter and flour cooked together. Add salt and 
pepper, stir in cheese and serve as soon as cheese is melted. 

Mrs. L. G. Stiles. 

10 



ST. GERMAIN SOUP. 

Three cups white stock, 1 can Marrowfat peas, 1 cup cold 
water, y 2 onion, bit of bay leaf, sprig of parsley, blade of mace, 
2 teaspoons sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, y$ teaspoon pepper, 2 table- 
spoons butter, 2 tablespoons cornstarch, 1 cup milk. Drain and 
rinse peas, reserving 1-3 cup; put remainder in cold water with 
seasonings and simmer J / 2 hour; rub through sieve and add 
stock. Thicken with butter and cornstarch cooked together. 
Boil 5 minutes. Add milk and rest of the peas. 

Mrs. L. G. Stiles. 

INSTANTANEOUS SOUP. 

One quart can of tomatoes, 1 quart can of corn, 1 quart of 
milk, 1 tablespoon of butter, salt. Cook tomatoes and corn to- 
gether about 10 minutes, add the milk, butter and salt, and allow 
to simmer 10 minutes, then strain through a sieve. 

Mrs. N. B. Lewis. 

WHITE SOUP. 

Four onions, 4 potatoes, boil, mash and pass through a col- 
ander, add 1 beaten egg, 1 quart of hot milk, a little salt and 
butter. Minnie Smith. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Brown 2 tablespoons of flour in 2 of butter. Add 1 can of 
tomatoes cooked and strained, 1 quart of milk. Season highly 
with salt, pepper and a little celery powder. 

Mrs. Genevieve Bookwalter. 

TOMATO BISQUE. 

Melt two tablespoons of butter in a saucepan, add 1 T / 2 table- 
spoons of flour and rub together until smooth, add gradually 
1 quart milk and cook until thickened. Cook 1 can tomatoes, y 2 
cup water, slice of onion, salt and sugar to taste, about 5 min- 
utes. When ready to serve strain into cooked milk. 

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Pease. 

TOMATO BISQUE. 

One can tomatoes ; boil with 1 cup of water ; strain ; then 
heat in a double boiler 1 pint of new milk; put in a piece of 



butter size of an egg. Season with salt and pepper. Take two 
tablespoons cornstarch, dissolve in a little cold milk. Stir into 
the boiling milk. Take a small pinch of soda dissolved with 
boiling water, stir into the tomatoes ; then put the boiling milk 
in. Serve immediately. Put a spoonful of whipped cream on 
top of the cup in which it is to be served. 

BUTTERMILK SOUP. 

Two quarts of buttermilk, 4 tablespoons of rice flour, Y 
package seeded raisins, 1 egg, 2 tablespoons of sugar. Put milk 
on to boil and stir in the raisins while cold, then before boiling 
place flour in milk and continue to stir until it boils. Beat the 
egg and sugar until creamed. Place soup on back of stove and 
stir in egg and sugar just before serving. 

Mrs. C. Anderson. 

NOODLES FOR SOUP. 

To one beaten egg add a little salt and as much flour as it 
will absorb. Roll out very thin on a well floured board, then 
sprinkle with flour and roll up. With a sharp knife cut into 
thin strips and shake them out to dry. Add to soup and boil 
about 20 minutes. 

SAGO SOUP. 

Two quarts of milk, 2 tablespoons of butter, salt and pepper 
to taste, Y cup of sago. Place all the ingredients in a double 
boiler and boil \Yz hours. 

CHICKEN SOUP WITH EGGS. 

Place the yolks of 6 eggs in the soup tureen, add Y* CU P °f 
water and beat thoroughly. Cook 3 quarts of rich chicken 
stock with Y* CU P of rice. Pour over the eggs, beating all the 
time, and serve immediately. Emma C. Portman. 

CREAM OF CHICKEN WITH ASPARAGUS. 

Cook two cans of asparagus tips in their own liquor, with 
about 1 pint of water added, for about 5 minutes, then drain 
liquor off and cut the tips ofT in 1-inch lengths and set aside. 
Replace asparagus in the liquor and cook 20 minutes, then strain 
through a sieve and add Y teaspoon of baking soda dissolved 



in hot water. Add 2 quarts of rich chicken broth, let boil to- 
gether and add 2 quarts of boiling hot milk. Thicken with 
4 tablespoons of butter and 8 tablespoons of flour. Season with 
salt and pepper, and add whipped cream. This is particularly 
good for serving at afternoon affairs in bouillon cups with a 
teaspoon of whipped cream added to each cup. 

CREAM OF CHICKEN WITH OYSTERS. 
To the above receipt the addition of oysters gives quite a 
different taste. Boil 1 quart of oysters in 1 quart of rich milk, 
add 1 tablespoon of butter, strain and add to the above. Served 
in bouillon cups, this is enough for 30 cups. 

CREAM OF SPINACH SOUP.— No. 1. 
Pick, wash and boil enough spinach to measure a pint, when 
cooked, chopped and pounded into a soft paste. Put it into a 
stewpan with 4 ounces of butter, a little grated nutmeg, a tea- 
spoon of salt. Cook and stir it about 10 minutes. Add to this 
two quarts of strong stock; let boil up, then rub it through a 
strainer. Set it over the fire again, and when on the point of 
boiling, mix with it a tablespoon of butter and a teaspoon of 
granulated sugar. When ready to serve whip up a half pint of 
triple cream and place on top in tureen. 

Emma C. Portman. 

CREAM OF SPINACH SOUP.— No. 2. 
Cook 54 peck of spinach in salted water for 20 minutes, 
then rub through a fine strainer. Boil 2 quarts of milk, and 
thicken with 2 tablespoons of butter and 2 tablespoons of flour, 
rubbed together, season with pepper and salt. Add the spinach 
and let it boil up, and just before serving add y 2 pint of 
whipped cream. 

GRAPE SOUP. 
(For Hot Weather.) 

Stem, wash and cook enough Concord grapes to secure 1 
quart of rich grape juice. Add 2 cups of sugar, 2 cups of 
seedless raisins (which have been soaked in water for 2 hours) 
and 4 sticks of cinnamon. Let boil for half an hour, remove 
the sticks of cinnamon and thicken with 4 tablespoons of flour. 
Grape jelly can also be used in place of the grape juice. To 
be served hot or very cold. Emma C. Portman. 

13 



DRIED FRUIT SOUP. 
(Wholesome for Children and Invalids.) 
Three quarts of water, 1 cup of dried currants, 1 cup of 
seedless raisins, 1 cup of prunes, 1 cup applies (dried or fresh), 
1 small cup of sago, 3 or 4 sticks of cinnamon, 1 tablespoon 
New Orleans molasses. Thoroughly wash and partly dry the 
fruit. Put all the ingredients together in a double boiler and 
boil very slowly for three hours. Serve hot or cold. 

CROUTONS FOR SOUP. 

Cut bread into slices 1 inch thick, remove the crust, butter 
the bread and cut into cubes ^ inch square ; brown in oven. 



BREAD, 

"Here is bread which strengthens men's hearts, 
And therefore is called The Staff of Life." 

MILK BREAD. 

One pint milk scalded and cooled. One tablespoon butter, 
melted in the hot milk, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 
small cake yeast, 6 or 7 cups of flour. Measure the milk after 
scalding and put into mixing bowl; add the butter, sugar and 
salt. When cool, add the yeast, stir in the flour, adding it 
gradually after 5 cups are in, that it may not be too stiff. Use 
just enough to knead it. Knead till smooth and elastic. Cover, 
let it rise till light. Cut it down, divide into parts and shape 
into loaves. Let it rise again in the pans. Bake forty or 
fifty minutes. Lillie I. Lewis. 

WHITE BREAD. 

One pint of scalded milk, cooled, 1 tablespoon of sugar, 1 
tablespoon of salt, flour enough to make batter, beat thoroughly, 
add 1 cake of compressed yeast dissolved in a little water, 1 
tablespoon of lard. Set in warm place to rise until light, then 
add more flour and knead. Set away to rise one hour, then 
knead into loaves, let rise and bake one hour. 

Elinor Erickson. 

14 



BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups sour cream, y cup sugar, y 2 cup molasses, 1 cup 
wheat flour, 2 cups graham flour, 2 even teaspoons soda, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, handful of raisins. Put into pan, let raise one hour, 
then bake. Mrs. G. W. Powell. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

Three-quarters cup white flour, \y 2 cups graham flour, \y 2 
cups cornmeal, ^4 CU P molasses, 1 tablespoon sugar, if liked 
very sweet, y 2 teaspoon salt, 2 large cups sour milk, 1 level 
teaspoon baking soda.* You may add y 2 cup seeded raisins if 
you choose. Pour into molds and steam from 3 to 4 hours. 

Mrs. Wm. Colly. 

CORN BREAD. 
Two tablespoons sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 eggs, stir to- 
gether and add 1 cup milk, ^ CU P corn meal, 3 teaspoons bak- 
ing powder and white flour to make quite stiff. Bake. 

Mrs. G. W. Powell. 

SOFT CORN BREAD. 

(Southern Style.) 

Two cups of hot grits. Cook until, half done. One and one- 
half tablespoonfuls of butter, 3 eggs, \y 2 pints of milk, 1 cup of 
white corn meal, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of baking 
powder, y 2 cup of grits before cooking, will make this amount, 
baked three-quarters of an hour. Miss Jennie A. Drake. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

Two cups of flour, 1 teaspoon of salt, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, ^ CU P of lard and butter, add enough milk to hold 
together, handle as little as possible. Bake in very hot oven. 

Nellie F. Caine. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

(Two Loaves.) 

Four cups of sour buttermilk, 1 heaping teaspoon of soda, 

y 2 cup of New Orleans molasses, pinch of salt, 2 tablespoons 

of lard, 1 cup of white flour. Enough graham flour to make a 

stiff batter. Bake fifty minutes. 

Mrs. Genevieve Bookwalter. 

15 



BOSTON STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

One pint sour milk, 2 cups of flour (or 1 cup of flour and 1 
cup of graham), 1 cup corn meal, 1 cup molasses, 1 teaspoon 
soda, salt. Steam in buttered mold three hours, or in the pound 
baking powder cans. Mrs. Seymour Jones. 

INDIAN BREAD. 

Three cups of sour milk, 2 cups of Indian meal, 1 cup of 
graham flour, y 2 cup of molasses, 1 tablespoon soda. Steam 
three hours. Mrs. Emma Bissell. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups yellow corn meal, 1 y 2 cups rye meal, 1 cup graham 
flour, 1 cup of molasses, 1 pint sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda and 
salt each. Stir thoroughly, steam five hours and bake one 
hour in a moderately warm oven. Mrs. Arthur N. Coble. 

BLUEBERRY MUFFINS. 

One egg, 1 pint flour, y 2 tablespoon melted butter, y 2 cup 
sugar, milk enough to make cake batter, heaping teaspoon 
baking powder, 1 pint blueberries dredged with flour, bake 
in muffin pan. Mrs. Geo. E. Watson. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

One cup white flour, 2 cups cornmeal, piece of lard size of 
walnut. Teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 2 tea- 
spoons sugar, y 2 cup milk. Mrs. /. West. 

WAFFLES. 

One pint milk, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 
teaspoon salt, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon butter. Mrs. Wall. 

WAFFLES. 

One pint flour, 1 pint milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon 
melted butter, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 3 eggs, the whites 
beaten to a froth. Sift the salt and baking powder with the 
flour, add the milk, melted butter and yolks of eggs. Beat hard 
for several minutes, then add the whites of eggs. Bake in hot 
greased waffle iron. Mrs. L. P. Hurter. 

16 



WAFFLES. 

One pint of flour, 1 teaspoon of baking powder, one tea- 
spoon salt sifted together six times. Make a well in middle 
of flour into which pour 1 pint of milk, the beaten yolks of 2 
eggs, a tablespoonful of melted shortening ; mix well, and add 
the stiffened whites of two eggs. Bake on a hot waffle iron. 

HONEY MUFFINS. 

Sift together three cupfuls of flour, three teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, and half a teaspoonful of salt. Work in three 
rounding tablespoonfuls of butter, add 3 beaten eggs, 1 cup of 
milk and 1 teacup of strained honey. Bake in muffin or in 
gem pans in a hot oven. Mrs. Nelson A. Pennoyer. 

TRIFLES. 
(A Fine Dish for Early Tea.) 
Beat 2 or 3 eggs a few minutes, add a little salt and enough 
flour to make a stiff paste, teaspoon of butter, nutmeg or 
cinnamon and essence of vanilla, also roll very thin, cut in 
star shape with tin cutter, fry in boiling hot lard. Sprinkle 
sugar over them and eat warm. 

QUEEN FRITTERS. 

Put Yz pint of water and 2 ounces butter in saucepan to boil. 
Put in 4 ounces of flour when boiling. Stir rapidly until it forms 
i ball. Take from fire, beat hard and let cool. Then add 1 
egg not beaten. Beat until thoroughly amalgated; then add 
another egg and beat again and so on until you have added 4 
eggs. Now give the whole a thorough beating. Have ready a 
kettle of hot fat. Drop a spoonful in and fry a delicate brown. 
I use cottolene. It is much better than lard. Serve with a wine 
sauce. Miss Drake. 

SWEDISH TIMBALES. 

One-half pint flour, 1 gill of milk, generous measure, 2 
eggs, J / 2 teaspoon salt, j£ teaspoon sugar, 1 tablespoon salad oil. 
Beat eggs until light. Add milk to them. Pour this mixture on 
the flour and beat to a smooth batter. Add other ingredients 
and beat two minutes. Put the timbale iron in kettle of hot 
fat for about two minutes. Fill a cup two-thirds full with the 

17 



batter. When iron is quite hot put into batter, let remain until 
it clings to sides of iron. Then immerse in hot fat and cook 
until a delicate brown. If the iron is not hot enough the batter 
will drop off the iron. Let the batter come within one-half 
inch of top of iron. Fry in cottolene. 

Miss Jennie A. Drake. 

STALE BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Soak 2 cups of stale breadcrumbs for one hour in a quart 
of milk which must be boiling hot. Pour this over the bread 
crumbs. Separate the yolks and whites of 2 eggs and beat till 
light. Into the soaked bread crumbs, add first the beaten yolks, 
then 3 ounces of flour, a tablespoon melted butter, a small tea- 
spoon of salt. Beat these well ; then stir in lightly 2 teaspoons 
of baking powder and the beaten whites. Grease the griddle 
and bake quickly in small thin cakes until a golden brown. 

SWEDISH PANCAKES. 

Three eggs well beaten, 1 heaping teaspoon of sugar, pinch 
of salt, 1 quart of milk. Use enough flour to thicken — say about 
1 pint — beat to a thin batter. It is best to test the batter on the 
griddle since it is hard to give just the amount of flour to be 
used. Mrs. Charles Anderson, Oak Park. 

ROYAL FRITTERS. 

One scant pint of sifted flour, T / 2 pint of water, 1 gill of but- 
ter, y 2 gill of sugar, 1 orange, grated rind and juice, 5 eggs. 
Put water, butter, orange juice on fire in large saucepan. Heat 
mixture slowly to boiling point. When it boils add sugar, then 
flour all at once. Beating all well until the paste leaves the 
sides of kettle, which will be about three minutes. Turn into 
a bowl and set away to cool. Then beat the eggs in one at a 
time. Beat hard for 20 minutes. Drop a spoonful into hot 
cottolene and fry delicate brown. Serve with any kind of 
sauce. Miss Jennie A. Drake. 

CHRISTINE'S MUFFINS. 

One tablespoon of butter, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 eggs, beaten 
separately, add 1 cup milk, 3 teaspoons baking powder, flour to 
make stiff batter. Bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. 

Mrs. Lewis. 

18 



POPOVERS. 

Three eggs, 1 teaspoon butter melted, 2 cups milk, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, 2 cups flour. Beat the eggs separately and add to 
the milk; put in salt and butter. Add flour little by little to 
prevent it being lumpy. Strain through a sieve. Fill well 
greased gem pans half full and bake in quick oven twenty-five 
minutes. Mrs. Henrietta Daniels. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

One cup of sour milk, 1 tablespoon of sugar or molasses, 1 
egg, 1 scant teaspoon of soda, y 2 of salt, enough graham flour 
to make a stiff batter. Bake twenty minutes. 

CORN-MEAL POPOVERS. 

One pint sweet milk scalded, stir into the hot milk a cup- 
ful of corn-meal, a piece of butter half the size of an egg, a 
little salt, 3 eggs well beaten, and stirred in the last thing. No 
soda. 

SODA BISCUIT. 

One and one-half quarts of flour, 1 pint sour milk, 1 level 
teaspoon of soda, well dissolved in milk, 1 heaping tablespoon 
of lard, scant teaspoon of salt. 

Mrs. Mary F. Pease, Springfield, III. 

ARROWROOT BISCUIT. 

Sift together 2 cups of arrowroot and 1 cup of flour. Rub 
two-thirds of a cupful of butter into the flour and stir in grad- 
ually a little very rich milk, sufficient to make a stiff dough. 
Roll out into a thick sheet, beat with rolling-pin, fold, roll out, 
and beat again, and repeat the rolling and beating for five min- 
utes. Roll out the last time about an inch thick, cut with a 
round cutter, brush with egg, sprinkle with sugar and bake 
in a moderate oven with a stronger bottom heat. 

RECIPE FOR GRAHAM GEMS. 

One cup of sweet milk, 1 cup of water, cold. Make a batter 
a little stiffer than griddle cakes. Put in hot buttered gem pans 
and bake in quick oven. 

19 



OATMEAL CRACKERS. 

Two cupfuls of raw oatmeal, 1 cupful of flour, y 2 cupful 
of lard, y 2 cupful of sugar, 1 tablespoon baking powder, 1 tea- 
spoon of salt. Mix together the oatmeal, flour, salt, sugar, and 
baking powder; melt the lard and pour a beaten egg into it. 
Then add this to the dry ingredients, using cold water enough 
to make. the whole into a stiff paste. Roll the paste to about the 
thickness of a dollar and cut into small cakes, and bake in a 
moderate oven. A. B. 

NEW ORLEANS ROLLS. 

One pint boiling whey poured over x / 2 tablespoonful of 
flour, let it cool, add y 2 cake compressed yeast, make a stiff 
batter, set it to rise, add after it rises 2 eggs well beaten, 4 
tablespoons lard (melted), 1 teaspoon sugar, a little salt, knead, 
let rise again. When light make into small rolls, lay them 1 
inch apart. Stand two hours before baking, have a hot oven 
and they will bake in ten or fifteen minutes and will be as light 
as feathers. Mrs. N. B. Lewis. 

GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One quart sour milk, y 2 teaspoon salt, enough flour to make 
a stiff batter, yolks of 3 eggs well beaten, 1 teaspoon soda, 
whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Mrs. C. S. Burdsal. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

Two tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 of butter, yolks of 2 eggs, ^4 
of a cup of milk (sweet), one cup of white flour, 1 cup of 
Indian meal, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, whites of 2 eggs. 
Beat whites very light. 

DIXIE BISCUIT. 

Three pints of flour, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons lard, 1 cup milk, 
yeast. Mix at 11 o'clock A. M. Roll, cut at 4 o'clock and cut 
with two sizes of cutters, putting the Smaller one on top. Let 
rise until time to get dinner and bake twenty minutes. 

Mrs. Ben. Williams. 

20 



SANDWICHES/ 

"Now, good digestion wait on appetite" 

NOVEL SANDWICHES. 

Spread thin slices of buttered bread with the following: 
Calve's liver boiled, chopped and run through meat chopper, 
seasoned well with salt and pepper, and mixed with mayonaise 
dressing. Mrs. A. B. Prindle, Batavia. 

JELLY SANDWICHES. 

(From Dainty Things for Luncheon.) 

Cut fresh bread, while yet warm, in as thin slices as possible. 
Butter them evenly, spread over lemon jelly and sprinkle with 
fresh grated cocoanut. Roll each slice separately and tie with 
baby ribbon. 

CHOCOLATE SANDWICHES. 

Slightly butter thin slices of white bread, trim off the crusts 
and cut into the desired shape. Grate the bitter chocolate and 
sweeten it to taste with granulated sugar. Melt a small piece of 
butter and add the chocolate to it. Take from the fire and cool. 
Moisten with a little cream if the filling is too thick to spread be- 
tween the slices of bread. This is one of the sweet sandwiches 
appreciated with a cup of tea. 

JELLY SANDWICHES. 

Three tablespoons crabapple jelly and 3 tablespoons cottage 
cheese. The cottage cheese must be rich and smooth. If too 
stiff, stir in a little cream. Butter white bread, spread half the 
slices with the jelly, and the remainder with the cheese, then 
put the two kinds together. 

NUT GINGER SANDWICHES.' 

(From Dainty things for Luncheon.) 

Take 3 long thin slices of bread buttered. Between the 
first and second place a layer of chopped preserved ginger 
mixed with cream and between the second and third slices place 
a layer of chopped English walnuts, then tie up each sandwich 
with baby ribbon. 

21 



BROWN BREAD TRIFLES. 

One-quarter of a teaspoonful of mustard, blended with 2 ta- 
blespoonfuls of lemon juice, and the same of melted butter. Dip 
sprigs of cress in this mixture and lay between thin, round slices 
of buttered Boston brown bread. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

One hard boiled egg, % lb. grated cheese, y 2 teaspoon salt, 
]/ 2 teaspoon pepper, y 2 teaspoon mustard, y teaspoon sugar, 
1 tablespoon melted butter, 1 tablespoon vinegar. Mash the 
yolk of the egg in a bowl, add butter and mix until smooth, 
add salt, sugar, pepper, mustard and cheese, mixing well, then 
add the vinegar, which will make it of a propel thickness. 
Spread slices of buttered white bread with this mixture. 

TOASTED SANDWICHES. 

Cut from a rich cheese some slices about half an inch thick, 
and place them between slices of brown bread and butter, like 
sandwiches. Place them on a plate in the oven, and when the 
bread is toasted serve on a napkin, very hot and very quickly. 

CAVIAR SANDWICHES. 

Two tablespoons caviar, 1 tablespoon salad dressing, y tea- 
spoon chopped onions. Mix all with juice of half a lemon and 
spread between slices of white or rye bread. 

CELERY SANDWICHES. 

Chop fine three stalks of celery and add enough salad dress- 
ing to make a thick paste and spread between slices of bread. 
Watercress can be used in the same way for sandwiches. 

BANANA SANDWICHES. 

No. 1. — Slice the bananas thin and evenly. Sprinkle with 
one tablespoon lemon juice. Add a little honey to white cream 
cheese and spread on the bread instead of butter, then place a 
layer of bananas between the slices. 

No. 2. — Slice the banana thin and place between slices of 
buttered bread, with a layer of salad dressing to which ha3 
been added whipped cream and a few chopped almonds. 

22 



GINGER SANDWICHES. 

Preserved ginger chopped fine and mixed with whipped 
cream and put between layers of buttered bread. 

ORANGE SANDWICHES. 

Orange marmalade chopped fine and mixed with whipped 
cream and put between layers of buttered bread. 

CURRANT SANDWICHES. 

Spiced currants (preserved) mixed with cream cheese with 
enough sweet cream added to make a paste, spread between 
layers of buttered bread. 

MAPLE SUGAR SANDWICHES. 

Cut and butter slices of white bread, scrape maple sugar and 
spread thickly on the bread. Cut with a maple leaf cutter and 
serve with hot coffee. 

GUAVA AND CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Butter twelve slices of bread, spread six of them with guava 
jelly and the other six with cream cheese. Put a guava and a 
cream cheese together. 

CREAM CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 

Take y 2 cup of finely chopped chicken and pound it fine. Dis- 
solve a teaspoon of gelatin in 2 tablespoons cold water. Whip 
y 2 pint cream. Add the liquid gelatin to the chicken, season 
with salt, stir until it begins to thicken, add the whipped cream 
and when it gets very cold spread on slices of buttered bread. 

LOBSTER SANDWICHES. 

One cup of chopped lobster meat mixed with two table- 
spoons of mayonnaise. Put this between buttered slices with 
a lettuce leaf on each side. 

OLIVE SANDWICHES. 

Spread thin slices of bread with olives chopped and mixed 
with salad dressing. 

23 



CUCUMBER SANDWICHES. 

Slice the cucumbers thin and let stand in cold salt water for 
half an hour, then drain. Dip slices in salad dressing, or vine- 
gar, and put between slices of buttered bread. 

NUT AND CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

One half cup of walnuts chopped fine and mixed with 
enough cream cheese and sweet cream to form a paste, then 
spread on the bread. 

NUT SANDWICHES. 

Mix half cup of chopped nuts with 1 tablespoon of mayon- 
naise and spread on bread and butter, whipped cream may be 
used instead of the mayonnaise. 

CABBAGE SANDWICHES. 

Shredded cabbage mixed with whipped cream and chopped 
nuts, placed between slices of buttered bread. Salt the cabbage. 

EGG SANDWICHES. 

No. 1. — Chop hard boiled eggs fine, with a cucumber pickle, 
pepper, salt and a little mustard. Rub smooth with a silver 
spoon and put between slices of buttered bread. 

No. 2. — Cut hard boiled eggs in thin slices, lay between but- 
tered bread with mayonnaise dressing. 

CLUB SANDWICHES. 

Lay between thin slices of buttered toast, a slice of cooked 
bacon, then a slice of cold chicken, and lastly a lettuce leaf with 
mayonnaise dressing. Serve hot 

BAR-LE-DUC SANDWICHES. 

Mix cream cheese with enough sweet cream to soften, then 
add Bar le Due enough to make a paste, or to flavor the 
cheese, then spread between slices of thin bread not buttered. 

SHRIMP SANDWICHES. 

Chop 1 cup of shrimp meat fine, mix with mayonnaise dress- 
ing and put between slices of buttered bread with two lettuce 
leaves. 



LETTUCE SANDWICHES. 

Take shredded leaf lettuce and mix with mayonnaise or 
French dressing and put between buttered bread. 

RUSSIAN SANDWICHES. 

Spread a layer of Neuchatel cheese on slices of buttered 
bread, then a layer of chopped olives mixed with mayonnaise 
dressing, and cover this with another slice of buttered bread. 
Cut in fancy shapes. 

BOSTON SANDWICHES. 

Spread slices of Boston brown bread with cream or Neu- 
chatel cheese, then add a layer of chopped stuffed olives mixed 
with salad dressing, then another layer of the bread. A lettuce 
leaf in each sandwich is a great addition. 

Mrs. John Vance Cheney. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

One hard boiled egg, 1 teaspoon made mustard, 1 tablespoon 
vinegar, % lb. American cheese, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 1 
saltspoon salt, 2 drops Tobasco sauce. Cut the cheese into small 
pieces, add the other things gradually, beating all the time until 
you have a creamy paste. Then spread on thin slices of bread. 

TOI'S CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

One bottle stuffed olives, (35c. size), % lb. pecan nuts, 2 
doz. sweet pickles. Chop each ingredient fine, then mix with 
mayonnaise dressing into a smooth paste. This quantity is 
enough for three loave of baker's bread. They are delicious. 

Lucia C. Beebe. 

A GOOD FILLING FOR SANDWICHES. 

One block of cream cheese, 4 tablespoons sweet cream, the 
juice of 3 lemons, work the cream into the cheese and then add 
the lemon juice and work all until it can be spread easily. Cut 
the bread about one-half an inch thick, spread three slices, 
place one on top of the other, then cut down like cake. 

Cecelia Donovan. 

25 



LEMON TOAST. 

Two large or 3 small eggs, 1 large cup of milk, y 2 cup gran- 
ulated sugar, 2 tablespoons powdered sugar, 1 small lemon, 1 
cup boiling water, 5 or 6 slices of bakers bread. Beat yolks of 
eggs, add milk and soak bread in this mixture. Fry in butter 
to a delicate brown. Beat whites stiff with 2 tablespoons of 
powdered sugar, add a small pinch of baking powder to pre- 
vent merangue from falling and heap irregularly on toast. 
Place in the oven or under broiler of gas stove to brown slightly. 
Make a syrup of boiling water, lemon juice and granulated 
sugar and pour carefully around toast. Garnish with spoonfuls 
of bright jelly — crab apple or quince. 

Mrs. N. E. Johnson. 

FRENCH TOAST. 

Beat one egg and put in a pinch of salt, add 1 cup milk, and 
flour enough to make a thin batter. Have bread cut in slices and 
cut slices in half. Dip bread in this batter and fry in kettle of 
lard. Lard must be smoking in the centre. Brown nicely, 
turning slices in the lard and serve hot. Ida S. Downs. 



VEGETABLES, 

"Oh muckle is the powerful grace that lies in herbs." 

SWEET POTATOES AND NUTS. . 

Mix 2 cups of chopped, hot sweet potatoes and 1 cup of 
chopped nut meats, stir in half a cup of melted butter and a 
beaten egg, season with half teaspoon of salt, press into a square 
mold and when cold cut into slices, dip in egg and bread crumbs 
and fry. 

SARATOGA CHIPS. 

Peel and slice the potatoes very thin. Let lay in very cold 
water to which has been added a piece of alum the size of a 
pea. (This size to a quart of water.) Let stand in the water 
for three or four hours. Heat 3 lbs. of lard in large kettle, drain 

26 



and dry a large handful of the potatoes at a time, put into the 
lard until golden brown. Take out with a wire spoon, put on 
newspaper to drain off the lard, and when cold sprinkle with 
salt. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Cut medium sized ripe tomatoes in halves. Melt 3 table- 
spoons of butter in a pan and when quite hot, put the tomatoes 
in with the cut side down. Cover and cook for about ten min- 
utes. Turn them over, season with salt and pepper (add 
sugar if liked) and cook until tender. Remove to a plat- 
ter, add 2 tablespoons of flour to the gravy, when well mixed, 
add 1 pint of milk. When well blended, pour over tomatoes, 
and serve. Mrs. Cloyes. 

STUFFED CELERY. 

Choose rather large yet tender stalks of celery and scrape 
them clean as for ordinary uses. The "stuffing" is made of 
grated cheese to which has been added a half teaspoon of lemon 
juice for each teaspoon of cheese, add a dash of paprika to the 
mixture and then fill it in the hollow space which is left when 
two stalks of celery are placed together, leave the freshest 
and crispest leaves at the top of the stalks and tie with ribbon. 

POTATO SOUFFLE. 

Boil 4 good sized mealy potatoes, put through a sieve, scald 
y 2 teacup sweet milk and tablespoon butter. Season the potato 
with salt and pepper, and add the milk and butter, beating until 
it is creamy. Add one at a time, the yolks of 4 eggs, beating 
thoroughly. Put a pinch of salt in the whites of the eggs and 
beat to a stiff froth. Have a well buttered baking dish ready. 
Add the whites of the eggs to the other mixture at the last mo- 
ment before putting in the oven. Bake twenty minutes in a 
quick oven, serve at once in the dish in which it was baked. 
This should be served with meats that have gravies. 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Boil 6 medium sized potatoes. Remove the skins, mash 
fine, add 1 large tablespoon of butter, salt and pepper. Form 
into croquettes, dip in egg and then in cracker crumbs and fry 
in hot lard. 

27 



FRIED POTATO BALLS. 

Mix a tablespoon of melted butter with 2 cups cold mashed 
potatoes, beat until light, add beaten yolk of an egg, season with 
salt and paprika. Last add beaten white of egg. Dip hands in 
flour, form mixture into balls, roll balls in flour and fry in 
hot lard. Serve hot on dish garnished with parsley. 

POTATO PUFF. 

Place 2 cups mashed potatoes into a sauce pan, add the yolks 
of 2 eggs, 3 tablespoons cream, 1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon 
salt, stir constantly over the fire until potatoes are light and hot. 
Remove from stove, add beaten whites of 2 eggs. Put into a 
buttered baking dish and bake in oven until a nice brown. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in cubes to make one quart, add a 
teaspoonful of salt, and one-third teaspoonful of pepper. Put 
3 tablespoonfuls butter into a frying pan, add 1 tablespoonful 
mixed onion and 1 of minced parsley, cook 3 minutes, stirring 
constantly, add the potatoes and stir with a fork very carefully 
until brown. 

BAKED CORN. 

Cut kernels off twelve ears of tender uncooked corn, add 
yolks and whites beaten separately of 4 eggs, 1 teaspoon of 
sugar, same of flour, mixed with a tablespoonful of butter, salt 
and pepper and 1 pint of milk. Bake about three-quarters of 
an hour. 

BAKED POTATO BALLS. 
Prepare mashed potatoes, beat until very light, adding 
cream, butter and salt to taste ; then press into tea cups to mold 
them. Dip each into beaten egg, place in a shallow butered 
pan and bake in oven to a golden brown. 

SCALLOPED OYSTER PLANT. 

Boil the oyster plant until perfectly tender, then take out of 
water and rub through a colander. Add butter, pepper and salt 
and milk, mix well. Put in a baking dish and cover the top 
with bread crumbs and small bits of butter, set in the oven and 
bake a delicate brown. Mrs. Lewis. 

28 



TURNIPS IN WHITE SAUCE. 

Wash and cut turnips into half or three-quarter slices ; pare 
and cut each slice into strips and then into cubes. Boil in boiling 
salted water until tender. Drain and pour white sauce over 
them. Mrs. N. B. Lewis. 

GREEN TOMATOES FRIED. 

Take medium sized green tomatoes and slice rather thin, 
fry a delicate brown in plenty of butter. When cooked remove 
to a hot dish and into the hot butter left in the pan put 1 cup 
thick cream, thicken with 1 dessert spoon flour. Season with 
salt and white pepper and pour over tomatoes. 

Mrs. E. H. Reed. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. 

Put cooked cauliflower broken in pieces (or whole) in pan 
or dish in which you intend to serve. Pour cream sauce over 
it, sprinkle a little grated cheese over that and baste with but- 
ter, bake in oven to brown and serve. 

EGG PLANT FRIED. 

Peel and slice an egg plant, roll in flour, dip in beaten eggs, 
seasoned with salt and pepper, roll afterwards m cracker 
crumbs and fry brown in hot butter. Serve at once. 

BAKED RICE WITH TOMATOES. 

Boil one cup of rice till tender, when done mix with a can of 
tomatoes. Add a little onion chopped very fine and a small 
piece of butter, season with pepper and salt. Put in a well- 
buttered dish lined with bread crumbs and bake a golden 
brown. 

ESCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Cut one quart cold boiled potatoes in very thin slices, season 
with salt and pepper. Butter a dish, cover the bottom with a 
layer of cream sauce and a layer of potatoes and sprinkle with 
chopped parsley. Next spread a layer of sauce and of potatoes 
until the dish is filled. Have the cream sauce for the last 
layer and over this sprinkle bread crumbs mixed with little 
bits of butter. Bake twenty minutes. Mrs. C. H. Betts. 

29 



PARSNIP CROQUETTES. 

Six large parsnips, 2 eggs, a little flour and salt. Par boil 
the parsnips and let them get thoroughly cold. Peel and grate 
them. Beat the eggs until very light, mix thoroughly with the 
grated parsnips adding sufficient flour to bind the mixture to- 
gether. Flour the hands well, form the mixture into balls. 
Have lard hot to nearly cover the balls. Fry quickly to a good 
brown on both sides. Serve very hot. 

TOMATOES WITH MACARONI. 

Put a layer of tomatoes fresh or canned in a buttered baking 
dish, season with salt, pepper and bits of butter. Cover with 
a layer of coked macaroni, and repeat till the dish is as full as 
desired. Moisten cracker crumbs with melted butter. Spread 
over the top, sprinkle grated cheese over all and bake until 
brown. 

RIPE TOMATOES FRIED. 

Cut in halves nice ripe tomatoes, place them in a baking dish 
skin side down. Place small pieces of butter over the tomatoes, 
dust with salt and pepper, stand in the oven ten minutes ; then 
place over the fire and fry slowly in butter. Do not turn, but 
when done, lift with cake turner and place on a hot platter. 
Add to the butter left in pan a tablespoon of flour, mix until 
smooth. Add a cup of cream, stir continually till smooth, sea- 
son with salt and pepper. Pour over tomatoes and serve. 

BAKED BELL PEPPERS. 

One doz. green bell peppers, lqt. chopped schrimps, 1 tea- 
cup grated bread, 1 teaspoon mixed mustard, ^ teaspoon pep- 
per, y% teaspoon celery seed, a slight grating of nutmeg, 1 
egg, % teaspoon salt. Cut the stem end of the pepper, remove 
the seeds and rind, and let the peppers stand in salted water 
for half an hour. Two tablespoons of butter, beaten to a cream, 
add the seasoning, then the beaten egg, then the bread crumbs, 
then the scrimps (or any fish like lobster or salmon) stuff the 
pepper pods, and bake twenty minutes in hot oven. This same 
preparation made into croquettes and cooked in lard is nice 
without the peppers. Mrs. N. W. Hamilton. 

30 



MOTHER'S SUCCOTASH. 

Six fine ears of corn, cut the corn from the cob. Put the 
cobs into three quarts of water and let them boil slowly for 
twenty minutes, remove the cobs and put into the water the cut 
corn. One pint green lima beans, Y^ lb. salt pork cut into pieces. 
Add to this salt, pepper and 1 tablespoon sugar. Let this sim- 
mer one hour or till the water has evaporated so that the mix- 
ture is the consistency you like. The southerners like it thin 
and serve it like a soup. Most people let it cook down and 
serve as a vegetable, just before serving the addition of a little 
cream is an improvement. Lucia C. Beebe. 

OYSTER PLANT. 

N (Mock Fried Oysters.) 

Take 2 bunches of oyster plant, scrape and cut into small 
pieces, boil in salted water till tender, drain and mash, when 
cold squeeze through a potato ricer. Beat the strained vege- 
table with a fork till light, season with salt and pepper, add 2 
well beaten eggs, 2 tablespoons of cream, 2 tablespoons of 
melted butter, 3 tablespoons flour, into which yt> teaspoon of 
baking powder has been mixed. Heat your griddle as for pan 
cakes and drop the mixture so as to make a cake the size of 
fried oyster, try or pierce with fork to see they are done in 
center. These are delicious with any kind of roast meats. 

Lucia C. Beebe. 

CAULIFLOWER CHEESE. 

Boil a cauliflower and press through a sieve. Add 1 heaping 
tablespoon of grated Parmeasan cheese, 2 of tomatoes, 1 of but- 
ter. Season well. Cover with bread crumbs and brown in the 
oven. Mrs. Genevieve Bookwalter. 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH SARDINES. 

Take 6 large, firm tomatoes and scoop out the inside. Let 
some of the juice drain off from the pulp, and mix the latter 
with half a cup of cracker or very fine bread crumbs, and a cup 
of sardines, from which all the skin and bones have been re- 
moved, a tablespoon of melted butter, a quarter of a pint of 
chopped olives, salt, and a little cayenne pepper. Stuff the to- 
matoes, cover with the piece removed, put in one pan, cover 

31 



with another, and cook half an hour in a moderately hot oven. 
Uncover and brown. Tomatoes stuffed with sardines and 
chopped olives, mixed with a very thick mayonnaise, make a 
very good salad. Add a little chopped celery or parsley. 

TOMATO TAVASI. 
(An Armenian Recipe.) 

Across the top of smooth, round tomatoes make 3 incisions 
with a sharp knife, and into each gap put a tablespoonful of 
raw, lean meat of any kind that has been chopped and well 
seasoned. Arrange tomatoes in rows in a square baking dish 
so they will not fall apart in baking. Put pieces of butter on 
top of each tomato, add a little water. Bake one hour, -and 
serve hot. 

STUFFED ONION. 

Scoop out the center of the onions, leaving a shell about 
half an inch thick and make a force meat using sausage as basis. 
To this add some of the heart of the onion, a little parsley, 
sweet pepper, salt bread crumbs and a little water to bind it to- 
gether. After filling the onion shell lay a lump of butter on top, 
place in a pan with a little water and bake in a hot oven until 
tender. Mrs. O. W. Chandler. 

SPINACH. 

Cook spinach until tender, put in a colander and drain, 
pour cold water over, squeeze out water, put in chopping bowl 
add salt, chop well. Chop one-half an onion fine and cook in 
1 tablespoon melted butter ; into this put spinach thin with a lit- 
tle beef tea, pepper and season to taste. Chop the whites and 
yolks of hard boiled eggs separately and use as a garnish. 

Mrs. August Heuer. 

STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS. 

Choose large peppers, split lengthwise into halves, remove 
seeds, mix bread crumbs and minced ham or tender roast beef 
well seasoned with butter, salt and pepper, fill the peppers. 
Moisten them with tomato juice and bake in a hot oven until 
brown. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley over them just be- 
fore they go to the table. 

32 



TOMATO DOLMASI. 
(An Armenian Recipe.) 

Take ripe tomatoes, scoop out some of the center leaving a 
good thick shell, fill center with some cucumber cut up fine, 
boiled rice mixed with chopped raw meat well seasoned. Place 
in dish, bake slowly for half an hour. 

CUCUMBER DOLMASI. 

Pare cucumbers, cut off one end, make cucumber hollow by 
removing seeds. Fill them half full with rice which has been 
mixed with chopped raw meat seasoned. Put in baking dish, 
putting two open ends opposite so rice will not fall out in bak- 
ing; cover with water, bake slowly one hour. 

CHICAGO BAKED BEANS. 

In the evening pour over 1 qt. navy beans water enough to 
cover them and let soak for twelve hours. In the morning 
place them in boiling pot with water enough to cover them 
and 1 tablespoon of soda, simmer until you can easily see that 
outer covering of the bean curls up when you breathe upon a 
spoonful in trying. Then strain off soda water and place them 
in clear water and boil slowly, simmer is better, until they are 
tender, but not in pieces. Now take your baking dish, place in 
a large layer of beans, then season them with salt and a little 
granulated sugar. Another layer of beans with the seasoning, 
and so on until they are nearly out, then place in the centre 1 
lb. of lean salt pork. Finish placing the layers of beans and the 
seasoning. Pour over the beans until they are entirely covered 
the liquor they boiled in last, and use it in replenishing as they 
dry out, but aim to have them nice and dry and whole when 
ready to serve. Bake in a slow oven five or six hours. If you 
are fond of tomatoes, they are delicious, after being stewed and 
seasoned to taste, to mix through the beans just before serving. 

Mrs. Jessie Strond Peck, Ravenswood. 

' MEAT AND POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Put in a stew-pan an ounce of butter, a slice of onion minced 
fine, when this simmers add a level tablespoon of sifted flour ; 
stir until smooth and frothy, then add half cup of milk, salt and 

33 



pepper ; let boil, stirring it all the while — now a cup of any cold 
meat chopped fine and a cup of hot mashed potato, mix thor- 
oughly and put on a plate to cool. Shape in cones or roll, dip 
in beaten tgg and cracker crumbs, and fry a nice brown in boil- 
ing fat, drain on brown paper, serve immediately. Cold rice or 
hominy may be used in place of potato, a cup of cold chicken 
or fish minced fine in place of the meat. 

Mrs. Alonzo Daniels. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

One dozen and a half large ears of fresh, green corn, 2 
eggs,, a heaping teaspoon of salt, % teaspoon of pepper and 4 
teaspoons of milk. Remove the husks and silk from the corn, 
score each row of kernels down the center, from end to end, 
and scrape out the contents with the back of the knife, by hold- 
ing the ear nearly upright and the blade of the knife almost 
flat against it; this prevents spattering, and for the same pur- 
pose it is as well to do all the scraping on a large platter. Scrape 
at least twice around the cob, and be sure to remove all the milk 
and yellow substance, but none of the skin. Next beat the eggs 
thoroughly at one end of the platter, then beat them into the 
corn, add the salt, pepper and milk, and after all is thoroughly 
beaten together, fry by the spoonful on a cake griddle that is 
very hot and has been well greased with cooking butter. By 
the time the last spoonful is laid on, the first spoonful should be 
ready to turn. They should be a rich, light brown, and will all 
be of the same shape if the batter is allowed to run on the 
griddle from the point of the spoon. They should be served as 
soon as cooked — only a griddleful at a time. 

STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS. 

Cut the stem ends from as many peppers as there are people 
to be served. Remove the insides with a sharp knife, scald for 
five minutes and drain. Cold chopped meat of any kind, or 
chopped fresh beef may be used for filling. Mix 2 tablespoons 
meat with 1 tablespoon cracker crumbs, season with chopped 
fresh tomato, a little onion juice, salt and pepper' to taste. 
Moisten with a little stock or milk. Fill the peppers, put a bit 
of butter on top, tie on covers, and put in pan with enough 
water to keep from burning. Cover for fifteen minutes, then 
cook fifteen minutes longer. Serve immediately. 

34 



STUFFED BAKED TOMATOES. 

Take the required amount of medium sized tomatoes, fine 
and ripe, cut off the blossom end and remove inside with a 
spoon. Chop this with bread crumbs, a slice of onion, salt and 
pepper to taste and replace in tomato shell, place a dot of but- 
ter on each and bake for twenty minutes. Serve individually 
on a lettuce leaf. Mrs. Seymour Jones. 

ESCALLOPED CHESTNUTS. 

Hull 1 pint of chestnuts ; place in bowl and pour boiling 
water on them to take off skins. Boil until soft, mash fine, add 
lump of butter the size of an egg, one-half tablespoon celery 
chopped very fine, 1 hard boiled egg chopped fine, 1 beaten raw 
egg. saltspoon salt, dash of pepper. Mix thoroughly. Have 
clean and dry clam shells, butter the insides, fill them to the 
edges. Make a hole in the middle in which to place a large 
oyster. Bake until a light yellow. Serve in shell with lemon. 
Deep oyster shells or scallop shells will do. 

Mrs. N. A. Pennoyer. 

MACARONI. 

Take ]/ 2 lb. macaroni and stew in boiling salted water until 
soft and tender. Butter a baking dish, drain the macaroni, and 
put in a layer of macaroni, sprinkle with grated cheese, add 
more macaroni, etc., until all is used. Finish with layer of 
cheese, and put bits of butter on top. Pour over y 2 cup milk. 
Bake covered y 2 hour, then take cover off and brown. 

Mrs. E. J. Henry. 

MOCK OYSTERS. 

Boil oyster plant roots, after scraping in salted water, until 
tender. Mash fine, adding a large spoonful of butter, salt and 
pepper to taste, add beaten yolk of an egg, flour to make stiff 
as for fritters. Beat thoroughly, drop by the spoonful into 
hot lard and fry a delicate brown. By making them moist 
enough to handle, shaping them like oysters and rolling them 
in salted cracker dust before frying the oyster delusion is 
well nigh complete. 

35 



POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

Make a white sauce, using 1 tablespoon of butter, 1 tablespoon 
of flour, ]/ 2 of a teaspoon of salt, 1 saltspoon of white pepper, 
and 1 cup of milk. Cut cold boiled potatoes into thick slices, or, 
what is better, J^-inch cubes. Butter a baking dish, put in it 
a layer of sauce, then one of the potatoes, previously lightly, 
seasoning with salt and pepper. Continue until all are in, using 
about 2 cups of potato. Add 1 teaspoon of melted butter to 1 
cup of dried and sifted bread crumbs ; spread this over the pota- 
toes, and place in a quick oven for twenty minutes, or until 
well browned. For a change a little onion juice, chopped pars- 
ley or grated cheese may be added to the sauce. 

CORN BLOCKS. 

A delicious dish to serve as a vegetable as you would po- 
tato. One pint of sweet milk, 6 tablespoons white corn meal, 
salted. Put all in a double boiler and cook one-half hour, turn 
in a bread pan and mould into a loaf. When cold turn out and 
cut into blocks 2 inches square and cook in boiling fat like 
French fried potatoes or doughnuts. 

Mrs. H. G. Daniels. 



EGGS AND CHEESE, 

"There's a best way of doing everything ; even if it be but 
to cook an egg." 

OMELET. 

Beat yolks of 2 eggs till light, add 2 tablespoonfuls of milk. 
1 saltspoon salt and % saltspoon pepper. Beat the whites of 
the eggs stiff. Cut and fold them lightly into the yolks. Have 
a smooth omelet pan. When hot put in a tablespoon ful of but- 
ter, let butter run all over pan and when bubbling turn in 
the omelet quickly, cook carefully until slightly browned under- 
neath. Set in oven on upper grate to dry the top. When 
the whole center is dry, run a knife around the edge, 
then under the half nearest the handle and fold over to 

36 



the right. The remnants of ham cut fine and added im- 
prove the omelet. To have a foam omelet add only half of the 
beaten whites to the yolks, and when nearly cooked spread the 
remainder over the top ; let it heat through ; fold over and the 
white will burst out round the edge like a border of foam. 

BAKED OMELET. 

One slice of baker's bread, 1 inch thick, remove crust; ^ 
pint of milk, 6 eggs, 1 tablespoon of butter, not melted. Pepper 
and salt to taste. Put milk on bread and let stand until soft. 
Then add butter to it and press through colander. Beat yolks 
until light and add lastly the whites which have been beaten 
stiff. Bake 20 minutes and serve immediately. Always cover 
with a napkin to keep it from falling when taking to table. 

Miss J. A. Drake. 

OMELETTE SOUFFLE. 

Beat six eggs separately, put with the yolks 4 scant spoons 
of white sugar, then add the whites, put tablespoon butter on the 
omelette pan and cook slowly till it forms a crust on the bottom, 
then set in the top of a hot oven and brown well ; cut through 
the center and roll over once and put a few hot cherries or 
cooked fruit of some kind, strawberries or bananas in between 
and serve very hot. 

BAKED OR SHIRRED EGGS. 

Small stone china dish, or egg shirrers, holding one or 
two eggs for each person are convenient for this method of 
serving eggs, or use a common platter placed over hot water, 
or bake in shells in a moderate oven ten minutes, first pricking 
several holes with a large pin in the large end of the egg to 
keep the air within from bursting the shell as it expands. No. 
1 — Break each egg into a cup, being careful not to break the 
yolk and put the eggs on a hot buttered dish suitable for serv- 
ing. Put a little salt on each egg, bake until the white is firm, 
add a little butter and serve at once. Garnish each egg with 
thin strips of breakfast bacon. 

CHEESE OMELET. 

Beat whites and yolks separately of 6 eggs, add- 1 cup of 
milk. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in omelet pan. Add 

37 



to eggs and milk y> cup bread crumbs and turn into pan. 
When ready to fold over add y>. cup grated cheese, leave a 
moment to heat and serve on a very hot platter. Don't forget 
that a good omelet should be long, thick in the middle and 
soft inside. 

OMELETTE AUX ROGNONS. 
(Omelet with Kidneys — Francois Tanty.) 
Mutton kidneys, 4 to 5 ; vinegar, y 2 tablespoonful ; butter, 
1 tablespoonful ; stock, y 2 glassful ; flour, 1 tablespoontu. ; 
parsley — a little. Time, 20 minutes. Skin and slice the 
kidneys, let them cook awhile in a saucepan with 1 table- 
spoonful butter, a little salt and pepper. Sprinkle over 1 table- 
spoonful flour, add y 2 tablesponful vinegar, y 2 glassful 
stock, the hashed parsley, let cook a few minutes. Pour 
into a plain omelet just before turning. 

DEVILED EGGS. 

Boil about 8 eggs 1 hour, cut each egg in 2 pieces, put all 
the yolks in a dish and add a little salt and pepper, 1 teaspoon 
of melted butter or olive oil, juice of 1 lemon, and with the 
blade of a knife work it into a paste ; fill each piece of egg 
and put the halves together, and serve on lettuce leaves. 

ROOKWOOD CROQUETTES. 

Hard boil 6 eggs and chop them very fine. Rub 1 table- 
spoonful of butter and 1 of flour together in a saucepan, add 
1 cup of milk and stir over the fire until creamy, then add a 
dash of pepper and one-half teaspoonful of salt. Chop the 
whites of the eggs very fine and add them to the creamy sauce. 
The mixture is then set away on a buttered plate. When 
cold mold 2 tablespoonfuls of the creamy mixture into the 
form of a hollow cylinder and put the yolk, mixed with 1 
tablespoonful of parsley, into the hollow center, and fold the 
white mixture all over it, ball shape. Dip in egg and bread 
crumbs and fry in hot fat, using frying basket. Serve hot. 
Delicious. Miss Mary I. Jennings. 

EGGS SPANISH. 

Three tablespoonfuls canned tomatoes, an onion cut fine, 
a- little parsley chopped fine, salt and pepper a little butter, let 

38 



simmer. Fry eggs in another pan, basting them with hot 
butter. Place eggs on a platter and pour the tomatoes over. 
Serve at once. 

CHEESE BALLS. 

To one Neuchatel cheese add 1 teaspoon grated onion, y 2 
teaspoon lemon juice, 3 tablespoons of cream. Mix well and 
make into balls an inch through, roll in salted peanuts which 
have been pounded fine and mix with a little chopped parsley. 
This makes about fifteen. - Genevieve L. Hull. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

Put 2 tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan, add 1 heap- 
ing tablespoonful of flour ; stir until smooth ; add half a cup 
of milk, half a teaspoonful of salt and a little paprika. Cook 
two minutes, add the yolks of 3 eggs well beaten and 1 cup 
of grated cheese. Set away to cool. When cold add the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Turn into a buttered 
dish and bake 25 minutes. Serve immediately or it will fall. 
Serve currant jelly with this dish. Lillie I. Lewis. 

CHEESE BALLS. 

To \y 2 cups grated stale cheese take the white of 1 egg 
well beaten, mix well ; set on ice to cool. Shape into balls, 
roll in egg and cracker and brown in hot lard. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

One-half cup butter, \]/ 2 cups flour, y 2 teaspoon paprika, 
l / 2 teaspoon dry mustard, y 2 teaspoon salt, y 2 teaspoon baking 
powder. Mix as you would pie crust. Add enough water to 
roll out on board. Roll very thin. Sprinkle with % lb. grated 
American cheese. Fold over once, roll again. Then cut into 
straws and bake in quick oven. Do not let them get too 
brown. Mrs. F. E. Hubbard. 

CANAPES. 

Cut bread into slices % inch thick, 4 inches long and 2 
inches wide. Spread with butter and sprinkle with salt and 
paprika. Cover the tops with grated cheese and bake until 
cheese is softened. Serve at once. 

39 



CHEESE DREAMS. 

Cut thin slices of bread, spread with cheese as for cheese 
sandwiches. Fry in butter in a chafing dish a light brown 
on both sides. 

CHEESE RAMAKINS. 

Four ozs. grated cheese, 2 ozs. butter, 2 ozs. grated bread, 
1 large cup milk, one-third teaspoon dry mustard, one-third 
salt, dash red pepper, 3 eggs. Grate the bread and boil it 
soft in the milk, add butter, mustard, salt, pepper, cheese and 
yolks of eggs. Beat the whites of eggs to a froth and add 
last. Bake in buttered ramakins 10 minutes and serve imme- 
diately. Mrs.. Alice Winters. 

GOLDEN BUCK. 
Make a good Welsh rarebit, lay a poached egg on it. 



FISH. 

"I wiped away the weeds and foam, 
I fetched my sea-born treasures home." 

PLANKED WHITE FISH WITH POTATO ROSES. 

Split open a firm white fish and remove the backbone (the 
head and tail should be cut off, with the fins, when it is 
cleaned). Spread with soft butter and dredge with flour, 
salt and pepper and lemon juice. Have the fish plank heated 
in a pan in the oven, place fish on it and bake about 15 minutes. 
Then remove and surround with the potatoes and return to 
a hot oven. From 20 to 30 minutes will be sufficient for the 
entire cooking, according to the thickness of the fish. 

POTATO ROSES. Prepare mashed potatoes as usual, 
but with less cream or milk, and place in a pastry bag. Force 
through in the shape of roses (using, a star tube) all around 
the fish, brush lightly with the yolk of an egg mixed with a 
few spoonfuls of cream and brown quickly in the oven. 
Garnish with lemon and parsley and serve on the plank. In 

40 



ordering a fish plank it is well to have the dimensions in pro- 
portion to the platter on which it will be used, and if no 
large baking pan be on hand, the lower part of the gas broiler 
answers the purpose admirably. Mrs. E. C. Noe. 

OYSTER LOAF. 

Take 1 loaf of bread, crusted all round. Cut off top so 
that top may be used for cover. Scoop out the soft part of 
the loaf and put shell in oven to become hot. Dip about two 
dozen oysters in egg, then in cracker crumbs and fry brown. 
Salt and pepper to taste. Fry or broil two dozen mushrooms 
and fill hot loaf with oysters and mushrooms in layers. Cut 
over top olives or pickles in slices. Put cover on loaf and 
serve. Must be very hot. Mrs. David Macquarrie. 

FISH TURBOT. 

One and one-half pounds of white fish; steam until tender; 
remove skin and bones; cut in pieces about an inch square. 
Make a white sauce: One tablespoon of butter, one table- 
spoon of flour. Heat the butter until it bubbles, put in the 
flour and stir until smooth. Have ready a pint of milk in 
which a small bunch of parsley and some thyme have been 
heated to boiling; remove the thyme and parsley; add 2 
well beaten eggs, salt. When cold put a layer of fish, then 
sauce until all is used. Cover with bread crumbs and bake 
until a nice brown. Very good and a nice way to use up fish 
left from yesterday's dinner. Mrs. Henry S. Harris. 

CODFISH. 

Shred in small bits a piece of cod fish. Cover with cold 
water and let it. come to a boil ; pour off this water carefully, 
then add a pint of milk, a small piece of butter, a little pepper, . 
a tablespoon of flour rubbed into the butter, 2 well beaten 
eggs. Stir into the milk to thicken, cook a few minutes. Cut 
into small pieces a quarter of a pound of salt pork, fry until 
crisp (not burned) or until there is a nice gravy. Slice two 
or three hard boiled eggs, garnish dish with the eggs, serve 
a tablespoon of the gravy on each portion of fish. Very nice 
with plain boiled potatoes. Mrs. Henry S. Harris. 

41 



SALMON LOAF. 

One can of salmon, 4 eggs, 4 tablespoons of butter, ^ 
cup of bread crumbs, a little minced parsley. To prepare: 
Drain the liquor from the salmon, beat the eggs separately, 
melt the butter (not too hot), put the crumbs in the eggs, 
season with salt, pepper and parsley, put the butter in the 
fish, add the rest ; put in buttered mold and steam 1 hour. 

Sauce, for Same. — One cup of milk heated to boiling, 1 
tablespoon of corn starch and 1 tablespoon of butter rubbed 
together. Then add the liquor of the salmon and the milk; 
add slowly 1 well beaten egg and cook until smooth. This 
is a nice fish course, or can be eaten cold without sauce. 

Mrs. Henry S. Harris. 

CREAMED HADDIE. 

Put a small haddie in a frying pan, skin side up; cover 
with cold water, simmer one-half hour, then separate into 
flakes. Melt 1 tablespoonful of butter, blend in 1 heaping 
tablespoon of flour, add gradually 1 pint of hot milk, add the 
fish, heat thoroughly. Serve with baked potatoes. 

DEVILED CLAMS. 

Wash 2 dozen clams and put into a dripping pan in a hot 
oven long enough for shells to open. Take out the ciam, 
separate and chop fine, add about a pint of bread crumbs, 
then the clam juice and a little pepper; butter the shells and 
place the mixture in, on the top of each place a small bit of 
butter and a few crumbs. Bake 10 minutes. Mrs. Lezvis. 

OYSTER CROQUETTES. 

One pint raw oysters, y 2 pint cooked veal, 1 tablespoonful 
softened butter, 3 tablespoonfuls cracker crumbs, yolks of 2 
eggs. Chop oysters and veal quite fine and soak the cracker 
crumbs in the oyster liquor; mix all together; spread dry 
cracker crumbs on moulding board and after shaping a 
spoonful of mixture into the desired shape roll in crumbs and 
fry in hot lard. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Select good sized oysters for pickling, cook them in their 
own liquor until the edges curl, then remove and drain them. 

42 



Scald enough vinegar and oyster liquor in equal parts to cover 
them. Place a layer of the cooked oysters in a stone jar and 
sprinkle over them a few whole cloves, pepper corns, allspice 
and a little mace, then more oysters and spices until all are 
used. Pour on the hot vinegar, cover and set in a cool place 
for a day or two. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

Two cups raw salt fish, 2 pints potatoes, 2 teaspoonfuls 
butter, 1 egg well beaten, y 2 saltspoonful pepper, more salt 
if needed. Wash the fish, pick in pieces and free from bones. 
Pare potatoes and cut in quarters. Put potatoes and fish into 
boiling water and boil until potatoes are soft. Be careful 
not to let them boil long enough to become soggy. Drain 
off all the water. Mash and beat the fish and potatoes till 
very light. Add the butter and pepper, and when slightly 
cooled add the egg and more salt if needed. Shape into balls, 
slip them off into a basket and fry in smoking hot lard. These 
fish balls must be mixed while potatoes and fish are hot. 

Mrs. I. J. Bryan. 

JELLIED FISH. 

Take a large white fish (about 4 pounds), y 2 package of 
gelatine, bay leaves and whole white peppers. Boil the fish 
in salted water until done. Remove skin and bones carefully, 
preserving the shape of the fish; place on the fish platter with 
head and tail in place, and sprinkle with some whole peppers 
and bay leaves. Soak the gelatine 1 hour, pour over it 1 
quart of the hot fish stock, pour this over the fish and set 
on ice. When ready to serve loosen the edges of the gelatine 
and place under and around the fish crisp lettuce leaves. Pour 
over the whole a sauce Tartare. Mrs. L. C. Tallmadge. 

PAN OYSTERS. 

Cut some stale bread, taking off all the crust. Toast, 
butter, place them in a pan (patty pans are best) and moisten 
with 3 or 4 teaspoonfuls of oyster liquor; place on the toast 
a layer of oysters, sprinkle with pepper, and put a small 
piece of butter on top of each ; place in the oven, covering 

43 



tightly. They will cook in 7 or 8 minutes if oven is hot — or 
cook till the beards are ruffled ; remove the cover, sprinkle 
lightly with salt, replace and cook over 1 minute longer. If 
they are cooked in patty pans, place the pans in a baking 
pan while cooking. Mrs. I. Jennings Bryan. 

BOILED FRESH CODFISH. 

Take a piece of fresh codfish, weighing about 2 pounds, 
and tie in a cloth that has been sprinkled with flour. Boil 
slowly in water enough to cover to which has been added 
two tablespoon fuls vinegar and 1 tablesponful of salt about 
35 minutes. 

Sauce. — One tablespoonful of butter, blended with 1 table- 
sponful of flour. Add 1 pint of milk, a little at a time, stirring 
constantly till smooth. Salt to taste. When ready to serve 
add 2 tablespoon fuls chopped parsley. Serve at once. Water 
must be boiling when fish is put in. Mrs. Macquarrie. 

SALMON SOUFFLE. 

Drain liquor from 1 can salmon, 2 tablespoonfuls melted 
butter, scant y 2 cup white bread crumbs, beaten whites of 4 
eggs. Mix together thoroughly. Steam one hour ; serve with 
cream sauce. Mrs. Fred F. Cain. 

PICKLED PERCH. 

Take out back fins and skin, sprinkle with salt, steam until 
tender, lay in a stone jar. Boil vinegar enough to cover fish 
with whole allspice and black peppers ; pour hot on fish. Set 
in a cool place. Mrs. Wm. Judsou. 

LOBSTER FARCE. 

Put 1 cup cream in double boiler and heat. Melt 2 large 
tablespoons butter in saucepan, add dessert spoon flour, a 
little cayenne pepper, mace and salt. Stir into hot cream and 
let it boil up. Mix this with 3 pounds of lobster picked to 
pieces. Fill lobster shells with the mixture, cover with bread 
crumbs, bits of butter, and brown in oven. Serve hot. 

Mrs. E. J. Henry. 

44 



SALMON LOAF. 

Two cans of salmon (remove all the bones and skin and 
drain off the juice for sauce), add to the fish 8 eggs, 1 cup 
bread crumbs, 8 tablespoons melted butter. Steam one hour. 

Sauce. — Two cups of milk, 1 tablespoon cornstarch, 1 tea- 
spoon catsup and juice from the fish. Let boil and add the 
beaten yolk of 1 egg after taking it off the stove. 

Mrs. John Vance Cheney. 

OYSTER LOAF. 

Take a loaf of bread, cut off the crust, dig out the center, 
brush it over with melted butter, and put in the oven to brown. 
Fill with creamed oysters, cover the top with fried bread 
crumbs, put in the oven for a minute and then serve. 

Mrs. John Vance Cheney. 

MUSHROOM STUFFING FOR FISH. 

Fry 1 tablespoon chopped onion in 2 tablespoons butter for 
3 minutes. Add y 2 cup chopped fresh mushrooms, y 2 table- 
spoon flour, y 2 cup chicken stock, y 2 teaspoon chopped parsley, 
salt, pepper and lemon juice to taste. Mix thoroughly and 
add stale bread crumbs to make right consistency. 

Mary Foster Snider. 

OYSTER COCKTAILS. 

For each person allow the strained juice of y 2 lemon, y 2 
teaspoon vinegar, 3 drops tobasco sauce, y 2 teaspoon freshly 
grated horseradish, 1 teaspoon tomato catsup and 5 medium 
sized oysters. Mrs. F. E. Hubbard. 

CREAMED WHITEFISH. 

Boil a 2-pound whitefish in salted water until tender. 
When it is quite cold, cut the meat into small pieces. Make 
a cream sauce of 1 pint milk, 2 tablespoons butter, 2 table- 
spoons corn starch, wet with a little of the milk. Season to 
taste with salt and pepper." Butter a baking dish, put in the 
fish and cream sauce in alternate layers. Sprinkle bread 
crumbs over the top with little bits of butter, and bake in hot 
oven until well browned. Mrs. Hubbard. 

45 



BAKED SCALLOPS. 

Wash the scallops in cold water, drain and wipe dry; then 
fry a delicate brown in butter, shaking or stirring to prevent 
them from burning. Put a layer of bread crumbs into a well 
buttered baking dish, then a layer of scallops ; season with 
salt and pepper. Alternate until dish is nearly full. Pour 
over a white sauce, cover with butter and crumbs. Bake 20 
minutes. L. I. Lewis. 

OYSTER ROLL WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Remove the inside of a loaf of stale bread by cutting off 
the top crust. Be careful that the crust fits again the same 
place. Leave a wall an inch thick inside, brush the inside and 
outside of the loaf with butter and place in the oven to brown. 
Do not burn. Cook the oysters gently as for stew, removing 
when they swell. Fill the roll or loaf and keep hot. Prepare 
the following sauce : 

Sauce. — Cut in pieces 1 quart of mushrooms and stew in 
oyster liquor with butter, a bay leaf and a little salt. Simmer 
gently for 30 minutes, add 1 pint cream and the yolks of 2 
eggs well beaten ; stir constantly till it comes to the boiling 
point. Lay your oyster roll on a hot platter and pour over it 
the mushroom sauce and garnish with flecks of chopped 
parsley. Mrs. N. A. Pennoycr. 



MEATS, 

"Some hae meat and carina cat, 
And some zvad cat that zuant it. 

But we hae meat and we can cat. 
And so the Lord be thank it." 

KOEINGSBERGER MEAT DUMPLINGS. 

Three-fourths of chopped beef to 54 chopped pork, l / 2 cup 
bread crumbs, 1 little onion, salt and pepper, mix with 1 egg. 
Form into good sized dumplings, boil in salted water with y 2 
cup vinegar, 1 onion and 1 bay leaf for 15 minutes. Thicken 

46 



some of the water in which the dumplings were boiled, add 
a little beef extract and 1 teaspoonful of capers. Have 1 or 2 
well beaten eggs on a platter, stir in the sauce and add the 
dumplings. Mrs. Gamer. 

AUSTRIAN SOUR POT ROAST AND DUMPLING. 

Brown a pot roast in a cup of butter on top of stove, the 
roast having previously been steeped in vinegar and salt 
water, onion and bay leaves over night. Add 3 or 4 cups of 
the liquor to the roast, add 1 bunch of carrots and stew slowly 
three hours. Serve with small flour dumplings. 

Mrs. Gamer. 

PORK TENDERLOIN IN MILK. 

Two pork tenderloins larded and browned in a small 
amount of butter. Then add y 2 cup milk and keep adding 
until they have cooked about three-quarters of an hour. 
Remove the tenderloins, thicken the gravy with a little flour. 
Pour over the tenderloins and serve very hot. 

Miss Emma Behnke. 

BROILED SAUSAGE. 

Take off the skin from the link sausages and flatten links 
to half their thickness, or take sausage meat. Put into a 
double wire broiler and broil carefully. Baste once with 
butter and serve hot. 

MOCK QUAIL. 

One good sized tenderloin will make three. Cut the 
tenderloin across in three pieces. Then cut it in the middle 
lengthwise, thus dividing each piece in two ; pound each good. 
Prepare together for each quail 1 prune, a few raisins and 
currants, 3 or 4 blanched almonds and piece of apple. Roll 
this between 2 pieces of tenderloin, wind strips of bacon around 
until it is completely covered and pin together with toothpicks. 
Put 2 toothpicks covered with raisins in each roll to represent 
legs. When several of these are served together on a platter 
with the legs sticking up they look like quail. 

47 



FILLET DE BOEUF. 

Order the fillet larded, about 5 pounds. Cut 1 onion, 1 
carrot, % of a turnip, in slices, and put in bottom of a pan. 
Salt the meat, pour a little fat over it, lay it on the vegetables 
and cook in hot oven about 30 minutes. Serve with mush- 
room sauce. 

Mushroom Sauce. — To one cup of brown sauce, add half 
a can of mushrooms, whole or quartered, and simmer five 
minutes. Serves eight persons. Mrs. Lewis. 

BEEF OLIVES. 

Three pounds round steak cut into small pieces and sliced 
thin. Pound well and season with pepper and salt. Then cut 
small pieces of bacon and onions and roll inside of the indi- 
vidual olives of meat. Brown the olives of meat and place 
in kettle with 1 cup of water. Boil two hours and a half. 

Mrs. C. Andeison. 

MEAT PIE. 

Cut cold cooked meat into thin slices or half inch cubes. 
Remove all gristle and fat, except the crisped outside fat. Put 
in a baking dish and cover with meat gravy and season to 
taste. Spread a crust of mashed potatoes over the meat, brush 
with beaten egg, sprinkle with cracker crumbs and bake till 
brown, 20 or 30 minutes. 

MEAT BALLS. 

One pound of chopped round steak, 6 slices of white bread 
soaked in milk, 2 eggs beaten separately, salt pepper and 
onion to taste. Mix well with the meat the yolks, salt and 
pepper, grated onion and the bread after pressing out the 
milk. Then fold in the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Pat lightly into four or five balls. Brown butter size 
of an egg. Put in the meat balls and toss about lightly. Then 
add a cup of boiling water and cover. Turn the balls fre- 
quently and let them simmer from one-half to three-quarters 
of an hour. Add more water if necessary. 

Mrs. W. Howard Robinson. 

48 



HOW TO PREPARE HAMBURG STEAK. 

Chop 1 onion fine and boil in 1 cup of water with a clove. 
Thicken with flour, add 1 or 2 eggs and season. Mix thor- 
oughly with 2 pounds of chopped beef and salt pork. 

Mrs. C. F. Anderson. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

One and one-fourth cups flour, salt to taste, milk to make 
a thin batter, adding lastly 3 eggs beaten very light. Put in 
pan, around a roast of beef 30 minutes before serving. 

Mrs. Alice Winters. 

SWEET BREADS. 

Sweet breads are found in calves and lambs, but the former 
are the better. They spoil quickly and should be put in cold 
water as soon as they are brought from the market and allowed 
to stand for an hour. Then drain and put into salted boiling 
water and cook very slowly for about 20 minutes. Drain and 
put into cold water, and they will then be white and firm and 
ready for many dainty dishes. This preparation must precede 
ail methods of cooking sweet breads. 

SWEET BREADS CREAMED. 

Cut the prepared sweet breads into small pieces till you 
have 1 cupful. Add 1 cupful of mushrooms. Make a cream 
sauce of 1 tablespoonful of butter into which 1 tablespoonful 
of flour has been stirred and 1 cup of milk. Flavor with salt, 
paprika and a little lemon juice. Add the sweet breads and 
mushrooms. Allow to cook about 8 minutes, then add the 
yolks of 2 eggs well beaten. Stir quickly and serve at once. 

Mrs. Macquame. 

SWEET BREADS FRIED. 
After preparing as above, split in halves, dip in egg, then 
in cracker crumbs and fry in butter. Season with salt and 
pepper, garnish with parsley and serve with green peas. 

Mrs. Macquarrie. 

SWEET BREAD CROQUETTES. 

Make a cream sauce of 1 cup of milk, 1 tablespoonful 
butter and 2 of flour. It should be almost too thick to stir. 

49 



Have ready 1 cup of sweet breads chopped, the beaten yolks 
of 2 eggs, a few drops of onion juice, salt and paprika to 
taste, and about y 2 cup of chopped mushrooms. Add these 
to the cream sauce. Stir well and set aside to become firm 
and cold. Shape into cutlets, dip in egg and then in cracker 
crumbs and cook brown in boiling fat. 

Mrs. Macquarrie. 

CREAMED SWEET BREADS. 

Drop a pair of sweet breads into cold water, changing the 
water as often as discolored. When they are quite white put 
in saucepan with a slice of onion, 1 small blade of mace, 2 
sprigs of parsley and 1 saltspoon salt. Cover with boiling 
water and cook 20 minutes. Put into cold water for y 2 hour, 
dry on towel, and remove all fat and sinews. Cut into dice 
with a silver fork to prevent discoloration. Make a cream 
sauce of 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 saltspoon 
salt and y 2 saltspoon white pepper. Mix over the fire and add 
1 cup of white stock, or the broth the sweet breads were 
cooked in, stir until smooth and thick, add y 2 cup rich cream 
and cook until thick and smooth. Add the sweet breads, 
cover and put over hot w r ater for 10 minutes. This can be 
served in ramakins or patty cases. 

COLLARED CALF'S HEAD WITH BRAINS. 
(Cold Dish.) 

Boil y 2 calf's head for 2 hours ; take it up then and remove 
the bones and put them back into the broth ; add 1 pint sage 
leaves and an onion, let simmer till you have cut up the meat, 
and add some small pieces of ham and the tongue chopped 
with pepper and salt to taste, let cook 2 hours, then add the 
brains and 1 egg well beaten the last thing, and pour into a 
cold mould and add plenty of the liquor well boiled down. 

•BRAISED TONGUE WITH ASPIC JELLY FOR 

LUNCH. 

Boil the tongue till tender, then place in a stew pan with 2 
good sized onions, 1 head of celery, 4 cloves, salt and pepper 
to taste; cover with the liquor it was boiled in, add a glass 

50 



of brandy, tablespoon sugar, pinch of mace, bunch of thyme 
and of parsley. Let this all simmer 2 hours, take out the 
tongue, strain the liquor, add to this 1 box of Cox's gelatine 
that has been soaked in 1 glass of cold water; heat it, pour 
all over the tongue, place the meat in a square pan so that 
when it comes out cold it will serve nicely on a square plate. 
Serve cold, garnished with water cress. 

STUFFED LEG OF LAMB. 

\ — Leg of lamb with bone removed. B — One cup dry 
br*"»d crumbs, 1 cup chopped mushrooms, salt, pepper, parsley 
to '"xste. Moisten with sherry wine. Place B in A, bake in 
ov**n 20 minutes to the pound, basting frequently. Serve with 
brown gravy. Mrs. Wall. 

LEG OF LAMB SERVED AS GAME. 

Steep leg of lamb in a quart of sour cream and bouquet of 
marjoram sage and thyme and onion over night. Then roast 
20 minutes to the pound, adding 1 cup of the sour cream and 
a small quantity of the same herbs. Mrs. Gamer. 

BOILED HAM. 

Simmer for 4 hours in water enough to cover, to which 
has been added y 2 cup of vinegar. When cooked remove skin, 
rub in some brown sugar, then sprinkle with bread crumbs. 
Then add more sugar and y 2 glass of sherry wine and bake 
one hour. Mrs. Noe. 

STEWED RABBITS.  

Brown in butter two rabbits cut in pieces. Add 2 cups 
boiling water, 1 cup of cream, ]/ 2 cup of vinegar and capers. 
Stew two hours. Mrs. Gamer. 

TONGUE IN JELLY. 

Boil and skin a good sized beef tongue. When cold put in 
a mould which has been wet in cold water, placing slices of 
cold, hard boiled eggs and cold boiled beets at the bottom of 
the mould. Cover with aspic jelly made as follows : One and 

si 



one-half pints of clear stock, y 2 box of gelatine, white of 1 
egg, *4 cup of cold water, 2 cloves, slice of onion, 1 stalk of 
celery. Soak gelatine in cold water, add other ingredients, 
let it come to a boil, strain through a napkin. Beat the white 
of the egg with 1 spoonful of cold stock and add. 

Mrs. H. S. Harris. 

BAKED HAM. 

Take a medium sized ham and boil slowly for about 4 
hours. Take the skin off, and rub in all the brown sugar it 
will hold. Stick in a number of cloves, season with paprika 
and sprinkle thickly with bread crumbs. Put in oven, basting 
with the water the ham was boiled in, and bake about 35 
minutes or until well browned. Mrs. J. F. Uphatn. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON OR LAMB. 

Wipe, remove the fat and put' into well salted boiling 
water. Skim and simmer 12 minutes for each pound of meat. 
One-quarter of a cup of rice is sometimes boiled with the 
mutton, or the meat may be tied in a cloth to keep it from 
discoloring. Serve with a thick caper sauce poured over the 
mutton. Garnish with parsley. Serve with currant jelly. 

LAMB SAUCE. 

One pint of claret wine, 1 glass jelly, grape or currant; 1 
pint bottle tomato catsup, 1 cup of butter, 1 teaspoonful of red 
pepper, 1 teaspoonful of allspice. Add claret just before serv- 
ing. Do not let it boil, but use it hot. Very fine. Use less 
catsup if you prefer. Miss Drake. 

CURRANT JELLY FOR MUTTON. 

Make 1 cup of brown sauce, strain it and add a cup of 
melted currant jelly. Heat till the jelly is well mixed and 
serve very hot. 

BROWN MUSHROOM SAUCE FOR BEEF. 

To 1 cup of brown sauce, add half a can of mushrooms, 
whole or quartered, and simmer 5 minutes. 

52 



MUTTON CUTLETS BREADED. 

Trim the cutlets and season with salt and pepper. Dip in 
crumbs beaten egg, and crumb again and fry in smoking hot 
fat, 4 to 6 minutes if rare, 8 or 10 if well done. Arrange in 
the center of a hot dish and pour tomato sauce around them, 
or place them around a mound of mashed potato or spinach. 
Trim the bones with a paper ruffle or arrange them with the 
bones end up, stacked like bayonets, and garnish with stuffed 
tomatoes. 

BEEF LOAF. 

Three pounds round steak, 1 pork tenderloin, % pound 
beef suet, 1 onion, salt, pepper, 1 tablespoon flour, l / 2 teaspoon 
allspice, 3/2 teaspoon cloves, 1 quart milk. Chop the round 
steak very fine with old-fashioned chopping knife. Chop 
pork tenderloin and suet and then mix together well and let 
stand over night. Grate the onion and add to the meat, then 
add the spices. When well mixed stir in the milk, a little at 
a time, till the entire quart has been added, using care to pre- 
vent the mixture being lumpy. Pour into a buttered tin and 
bake 1 hour, placing the tin in a pan of boiling water in hot 
oven. This serves about 12 people. Miss Emma Behnke. 

SCRAPPLE. 

Boil hog's head in enough water to cover until meat is ready 
to fall from bones. Remove head from liquor, strain liquor and 
set aside to cool. Pick meat from bones, adding some of the 
fat and chop fine. Remove fat from liquor, add meat, thicken 
with corn meal and season to taste. When cold cut in slices 
and fry. Can be prepared with beef in the same manner. 

Mrs. Martin. 

SPICED BEEF. 

Two pounds of chopped beef, mix well with 4 beaten eggs, 
4 large soda crackers, roll fine, pepper, salt and thyme to taste. 
Mold into two loaves, cover with strips of bacon, bake three 
quarters of an hour until tender. Slice cold or can be eaten hot 
with tomato sauce. F. E. Harris, 

53 



CASSEROLE OF RICE AND MEAT. 

Boil 1 cup of rice till tender. Chop very fine half pound of 
any cold meat. Season highly with half a teaspoonful of salt, 
half a saltspoonful pepper, 1 saltspoonful celery salt, 1 teaspoon- 
ful of finely chopped onion, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley.' 
Add 1 beaten egg, 2 tablespoonfuls of fine cracker crumbs and 
moisten with hot water or stock enough to pack easily. Butter 
a small mould, line bottom and sides half an inch deep with the 
rice, pack in the meat, cover closely with rice and steam forty- 
five minutes. Loosen it around the edge of the mould, turn it 
out upon a platter and pour tomato sauce over it. This is very 
good. Mrs. Bryan. 

HAMBURG STEAK IN CASSEROLE. 

Chop 1 pound of Hamburg steak very fine. Add 1 onion 
chopped fine and form into flat cake. Put 1 teaspoonful butter in 
casserole, allow to become hot. Add I young carrot grated, 
y 2 cup of tomatoes, salt and pepper to taste. Place the meat 
in this sauce and put in about a dozen small onions. Bake 
one-half hour in quick oven. When ready to serve add about 2 
tablespoonfuls of sherry wine. Serve from the casserole. 

Mrs. Macquarrie. 

STEAK A LA STANLEY. 

(A.) Extra thick porterhouse or club steak. (B.) Four 
bananas cut in two lengthwise and fried in olive oil. (C.) 
One-half cup cream sauce, 3 tablespoonfuls of horseradish (as 
dry as possible) mix with whipped cream. Broil (A) until 
medium rare, place (B) on top in rows, cover with (C) and 
serve garnished with parsley. Mrs. Wall. 

GOULASH. 

Two pounds of beef from the round, wipe with damp 
cloth. Cut in pieces an inch long, put in a spoonful of butter 
in a sauce pan. Add a small grated onion, cook until straw color. 
Add a quarter of a teaspoonful of paprika, mix well. Stir in 
3 level teaspoonfuls of flour, brown a good color. Add 2 cups 
of good stock, stir until it boils. Cover and cook until meat 
and potatoes are done. Cold meat and potatoes may be used 
up in this way. F. E. Harris. 

54 



SAUER BRATEN. 

Take a fillet of beef, about 5 lbs., put in a deep bowl, and 
cover with vinegar seasoned with 1 sliced onion, 1 bay leaf, 
5 or 6 cloves, salt and about 8 whole peppers. Cover and 
let stand three days. Then take ^ vinegar, add 3 cups water, 
put in baking pan with meat and cook in oven about 3 hours. 
Thicken gravy with browned flour, put in 1 can button mush- 
rooms, let boil up once. Serve meat on platter with gravy and 
mushrooms around it. Mrs. L. P. Hurter. 

BOILED DINNER. 

Wash a piece of corn beef weighing 5 or 6 lbs., and put into 
1 gallon of water ; when it comes to a boil, pour off water and 
put fresh water on and boil slowly three and one-half hours. At 
the beginning of the last half hour, add one head of cabbage 
quartered, 15 minutes later add 3 carrots quartered and 3 small 
turnips sliced. One-half hour before add six medium sized po- 
tatoes. Cook beets in a separate kettle. Put meat on large 
platter and arrange vegetables around it, or, can serve vege- 
tables in separate dishes. 

PAPRIKA SCHNITZEL. 

Cut 2 lbs. of thick veal steak into small pieces, roll in seasoned 
flour and fry brown in the fat from several slices of salt pork. 
Remove the meat from the pan and add 2 tablespoons flour to 
the remaining fat, brown lightly and pour in gradually the 
strained liquor from 1 can of tomatoes. Add a slice each of 
onion and carrot, 3 bay leaves, a bit of mace, then return meat 
to the sauce, cover closely and simmer ^ of an hour. When 
done remove the meat, season the sauce with salt and paprika 
and strain onto the platter. 

ROAST DUCK. 

Select a young duck, about 4 pounds. It should roast about 
three-quarters of an hour. 

Stuffing. — About two dozen very small German potatoes 
boiled. Two apples cut in small pieces. One small onion 
chopped fine. Season to taste with salt, pepper, sage or thyme. 
Put all together and fill the duck. Mrs. Macquarrie. 

55 



CREAMED CHICKEN. 

For 4 chickens : Boil and cut up chicken fine. Four cups 
cream, 4 large tablespoonfuls butter, 5 even tablespoonfuls 
flour, 2 kinds of pepper, ]/ 2 grated onion, a little nutmeg, 1 can 
mushrooms. Put all in baking dish, sprinkle with bread crumbs 
and bake 20 minutes. The cream, butter and flour should be 
mixed like cream sauce and poured over and mixed with the 
chicken. Then stir in pepper, onion, nutmeg and mushrooms. 

• Mrs. Bryan. 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

Cut a young chicken into pieces, remove all of the skin. Dip 
in egg, then in cracker crumbs. Cook in butter in a tightly 
covered pan. Add 1 tablespoon ful of flour to the gravy, stir- 
ring it carefully to blend it well. Thin with milk and add 
chopped giblets to the gravy. Mrs. Macquarrie. 

GLAZED CHESTNUTS FOR TURKEY GARNISH. 

Peel and blanche, put in skillet with 3 tablespoons of hot 
butter, toss them over the fire 8 minutes, then put around turkey 
on platter, adding some to the dressing. Mrs. Harris. 

PRESSED CHICKEN WITH EGG. 

One large fowl, 1 onion, let simmer until meat falls from 
bones, put in one tablespoonful salt when about half done. 
When tender remove skin and cut meat into dice. Skim liquor, 
add salt, paprika, 1 tablespoon of lemon juice ; boil until re- 
duced to 2y 2 cupfuls and add x 4 box of gelatine previously 
soaked in y 2 cup of cold water. Add liquor to chicken; mix 
well and put into moulds with slices of hard boiled eggs in bot- 
tom of moulds. Mrs. C. A. Spencer. 

CHICKEN CHOP SOOY. 

One chicken, 3 or 4 lbs. in weight, cut up and boiled in water 
until tender. Let stand until cold. One cup rice boiled in 3 
quarts of water, 1 can mushrooms (button) braised in 2 table- 
spoons of water until butter is all absorbed by mushrooms. 
Make a cream sauce of 1 cup milk, 1 cup cream, and 2 table- 
spoons cornstarch. Cut all the meat from the chicken into dice. 
Butter a baking dish, and put in a layer of the cream sauce, 

56 



then 1-3 of the chicken, then a layer of the rice, and then a 
layer of the mushrooms. Cover with another layer of the 
sance. Continue the layers until all the ingredients are used, 
having a layer of the sauce on top, which sprinkle with bread 
crumbs and little bits of butter. Bake for 20 minutes. This 
can also be baked in individual moulds. 

Mrs. F. E. Hubbard. 

CHICKEN POT ROAST. 

Take a chicken between 3 and 4 lbs. and prepare the same 
as for oven roasting. Stuff with an c rdinary sage dressing and 
put in pot with 2 quarts of water. When it comes to a boil, 
let simmer for about 2 hours, and then brown. This is nicest 
served cold. Mrs. Hubbard. 

BAKED SPRING CHICKEN. 

Split the chickens down the back, and then cut each piece 
in half. Wash and dry thoroughly. Put in larded dripping 
pan, season with salt and pepper, put a piece of sliced bacon on 
each piece and bake from 20 to 30 minutes in hot oven. If 
bacon is not liked, baste with melted butter and water. 

An Indian dish that the Southern people are very fond of 
called "Janibalaya" of fowl and rice. Cut up and stew a fowl, 
when half done, add cup raw rice, slice of minced ham, cook 
all together until rice swells and absorbs all the gravy. Serve 
in a deep dish very hot, salt and pepper to taste. Sometimes 
add tomatoes or peas. 

MEAT SOUFFLE. 

One cup of rich milk or cream, thicken with 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, and 1 of flour. Season with chopped parsley and 
onion juice. Stir in one cup of any kind of cold meat. Add 
the beaten yolks of 2 eggs and cook 1 minute and set aside to 
cool. When cold stir in whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Bake 
in a buttered dish about twenty minutes. Serve immediately. 
This is best made with chicken. Mrs. Lewis. 

BROWN FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN. 

Cut up the chicken and brown the pieces in 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, being careful not to let the butter burn. When 

57 



nicely browned draw the pieces to one side of pan, add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour to the fat, mix and add 1 pint of cold water 
or stock. Stir until it boils, moving the chicken around in 
the sauce. Add 1 slice of onion, 1 small chopped carrot, salt 
and pepper. Cover the pan and let simmer until the chicken is 
tender. Mrs. E. Pease. 

MELTON VEAL. 

Take cold boiled or roasted veal, chop fine, season well 
with salt and pepper, and a little lemon juice, add 2 or 3 table- 
spoonfuls of cracker crumbs and moisten with soup stock or 
hot water. Take 1-3 as much finely chopped ham as of veal. 
Season with mustard and a little cayenne pepper, add 1 table- 
spoonful of cracker crumbs and moisten with a hot stock or 
water. Butter a mould and line with slices of hard boiled egg. 
Put in the two mixtures irregularly, so that when cut it will 
have a mottled appearance. Press in closely and steam three- 
quarters of an hour. Set away to cool. Remove from the 
mould and slice before serving. Boston Cook Book. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Three pounds of raw veal and y 2 pound of salt pork passed 
through a meat cutter, six large crackers rolled fine, butter size 
of an tgg, 2 eggs well beaten, 1 tablespoonful salt, 1 tablespoon- 
ful of pepper, 1 of sage, 3 of extract of celery, 1 tablespoonful of 
onion chopped fine (if liked). Ilix thoroughly. Pack tightly 
in a deep tin baking dish, cover with bits of butter and sprinkle 
fine cracker crumbs over the top. Cover with another tin. Bake 
2 hours, uncover and brown. Mrs. Lewis. 

BREAST OF VEAL WITH DRESSING. 

Have pocket cut in a 6 lb. breast of veal, with 2 lbs. of 
chopped meat (2-3 beef and 1-3 pork) add 2 eggs, 1 cup finely 
grated bread crumbs, 1 tablespoonful finely chopped onions and 
season with pepper and salt and a little parsley. Fill the pocket 
and sew. Roast with slices of bacon placed on top of the 
meat. This can be served with apple sauce, currant or cran- 
berry jelly. It slices nicely when cold. 

Mrs. F. Voightman. 

58 



MEAT PORCUPINE. 

Chop fine some cooked veal or lamb, add %. its amount of 
bread crumbs or mashed potato and a small quantity of chopped 
bacon ; season highly with salt, pepper cayenne, and lemon 
juice, moisten with beaten egg and stock or water enough to 
shape it. Mould into an oval loaf and put into a well greased 
shallow pan. Cut strips of fat bacon % inch wide and 1 inch 
long*. Make holes in the loaf with a skewer, insert the strips of 
bacon leaving the ends out y 2 inch and push the meat up firmly 
around the bacon. Bake until brown. The bacon will baste the 
meat sufficiently. Mrs. Lincoln. 

VEAL BIRDS. 

Slices of veal from loin cut very thin, remove bones, skin 
and fat, pound until % inch thick. Trim into pieces 2y 2 by 4 
inches. Chop the trimmings fine with 1 square inch of salt 
pork for each bird. Add half as much fine cracker crumbs as 
you have meat, season highly with salt, pepper, thyme and 
onions. Moisten with 1 egg. Spread the mixture on each slice 
nearly to the edge, roll up tightly and tie or fasten with skewers, 
dredge with salt, pepper and flour, fry them slowly in hot but- 
ter until a golden brown. Then half cover with cream and 
simmer 15 or 20 minutes until tender. Serve on toast, garnish 
with parsley and lemon. 

VEAL JELLY. 

One knuckle veal, about 4 pounds, 2 hard boiled eggs, juice 
of 1 lemon, 2 tablespoonfuls minced onion, carrot, parsley, 
mace, cinnamon, cloves, thyme, pepper, salt. Break knuckle 
into pieces and put in sauce pan with water to cover. Tie up all 
the seasoning except pepper, salt and lemon in muslin bag and 
put in with veal. Cook slowly 4 hours. Take the meat out, 
free from bone and fat, cut in pieces and strain over it the 
water it was boiled in. Add salt, pepper and lemon juice and 
simmer half an hour. Arrange slices of cold boiled egg in 
mould, pour in veal and set in cold place to harden. 

Mrs. Macquarrie. 

STUFFED VEAL. 

Remove the bone from a shoulder of veal. Replace with 
sliced onion, salt and pepper, dredge with flour, baste with the 

59 



drippings in pan. Bake 20 minutes for each pound. Make 
a nice gravy by dredging a heaping tablespoon ful of flour 
(after taking out the meat) to the pan, add boiling water. 
Serve potatoes around platter. Mrs. Harris. 

MUSHROOMED CUTLETS. 

Cut 1^ pounds veal cutlets into individual pieces. Dress 
with a teaspoonful of salt and 1 saltspoonful of pepper; dip 
first in beaten egg and then in finely chopped mushrooms. 
Fry in boiling fat until done. Miss A. Caskey. 

VEAL OLIVES. 

Cut up a slice of fillet of veal, about y 2 inch thick, into 
squares of 3 inches; mix up a little salt pork, chopped with 
bread crumbs, 1 onion, a little pepper, salt, sweet marjoram, 
1 egg well beaten ; put this mixture upon the pieces of veal, 
fastening the corners together with small bird skewers ; lay 
in pan with sufficient gravy or light stock to cover bottom of 
pan ; dredge with flour and set in a hot oven. When browned 
on top put a small bit of butter on each and let them remain 
until tender, about 20 minutes. Serve with horseradish. 

Mrs. C. R. G. Forrester. 

TIMBALE OF VEAL. 

Boil veal, as for stew, until tender. Season well with salt 
and pepper. Let it get cold in the stock, then chop quite fine. 
To a quart of chopped veal, add the same amount of bread 
crumbs, a tablespoon onion juice, salt and pepper to taste. 
Take a pint and a half of the gravy the meat was cooked in, 
adding a good tablespoon of butter, and heat, and, while hot, 
pour over the meat and bread crumbs. Beat 3 eggs very light 
and stir in to the mixture. Butter ramakins, or a deep baking 
pan, and pour the meat into it, packing it in as tight as possible. 
Put ramakins, or baking dish into a deep pan, which fill 
with warm water. Bake slowly for an hour. When done, 
turn out on individual dishes or a platter and garnish as you 
like. Take some of the gravy in which the meat was boiled, 
season well and pour over the timbale. Left-over chicken or 
turkey is nice served this way. T. E. L. 

60 



BREAD DRESSING FOR FOWL. 

Chop twice baked bread fine, take 2 cups of it, mix with 
heart and liver also chopped fine. Put in the yolks of 2 eggs 
boiled 40 minutes, half cup of chopped celery, half cup of 
chopped nuts, butter size of an egg. Moisten with cream but 
not too moist, salt, pepper and sage to taste, and 1 small onion, 
a small apple and fat salt pork the size of an egg chopped fine 
could be added if desired. Stuff the fowl two-thirds full with 
these ingredients or if preferred bake with the fowl. 

Kenosha, Wis. Mrs. N. A. Pennoyer. 



SALADS- 

"The turnpike road to people's hearts I find, 
Lies through their mouths or I mistake mankind" 

EDGEWATER SALAD DRESSING. 

Put 5 tablespoons vinegar into double boiler and heat. Add 
the well beaten yolks of 5 eggs, half cup butter and beat until 
cold. Then add 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon mustard, 1 tea- 
spoon sugar, 1 pinch red pepper. Thin with whipped cream. 

Mrs. C. A. Burton. 

EGYPTIAN MAYONNAISE. 

Make the usual oil mayonnaise. Reduce a clove of garlic 
to a pulp and add it to the dressing. Also add 2 drops of 
tobasco sauce and the pulp of 3 small fresh tomatoes put 
through a sieve and drained of their juice. 

Mrs. Genevieve Bookwalter. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

One saltspoonful salt, l / 2 saltspoonful pepper, 3 tablespoon- 
fulsoliveoil, 1 tablespoonful vinegar, 1 tablespoonful Worces- 
tershire sauce, 1 tablespoonful lemon juice. This dressing is 
suitable for vegetables, salads, or to marinate a fish salad. 

Mrs. N. B. Lewis. 

61 



MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Have all the ingredients very cold ; in fact, put the bowl 
you mix it in on the ice until thoroughly chilled. Take the yolk 
of 1 egg and beat until very light. Add gradually 3 table- 
spoonfuls oil, 1 saltspoonful salt, y 2 saltspoonful pepper, 1 
dash paprika, stirring constantly. Then thin until creamy 
with 2 tablespoonfuls tarragon vinegar. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Beat the yolks of 8 eggs, add 1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons 
of mustard, y 2 teaspoon salt, }i teaspoon cayenne pepper, 1 
pint vinegar, 1 cup butter, 1 tablespoon cornstarch. Mix the 
salt, pepper, sugar, mustard and cornstarch all together; then 
pour over them the beaten yolks ; let the vinegar and butter 
come to a boil, then pour them over the egg mixture and put 
all into the double boiler and let it thicken. Dilute the vinegar 
with water if it is too strong. When the dressing is cold, use 
equal portions of whipped cream and dressing on salad. 

Mrs. John Vance Cheney. 

DRESSING FOR FRUIT SALAD. 

Two eggs, 2 tablespoons flour. 2 tablespoons vinegar, 
beaten together and cooked until thic*. Add juice of 1 lemon 
and thin to proper consistency with cream. 

Mrs. Seymour Jones. 

ASPIC JELLY FOR SALADS. 

One and one-half pints of clear stock — beef for amber jelly 
and chicken or veal for white — }£ box gelatine, the white of 
1 egg y half a cupful of cold water, 2 cloves, 1 large slice of 
onion, 12 pepper corns, 1 stalk of celery and salt to taste. Add 
to gelatine and egg. Soak gelatine in cold water until dis- 
solved, then cook with the white of the egg beaten up with a 
little of the cold stock. Let come to a boil and set back where 
it will simmer for 20 minutes. Strain through a napkin, turn 
into a large mould, or several small ones, and set away to 
harden. Before it is hardened asparagus tips or cooked cauli- 
flower may be added Mrs. Cusack. 

62 



FRENCH DRESSING. 

Three tablespoons salad oil, 2 tablespoons vinegar, preferably 
tarragon, 1 saltspoon salt, y 2 saltspoon pepper. Mix well and 
pour over fresh vegetables. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of 3 eggs, beaten lightly, 1 teaspoon mustard (dry), 
2 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, % salt- 
spoon pepper ; whites of the eggs beaten, but not stiff ; 1 cup 
cream, V 2 cup melted butter, measured before melted, ]/ 2 cup 
hot vinegar. Cook all together in double boiler until you can 
feel it is thickening the least bit. Stir constantly, and when 
you take it from the fire stir until cool. If necessary thin with 
whipped cream. Mrs. E. J. Henry. 

VINAIGRETTE DRESSING. 

Two tablespoons salad oil, 2 tablespoons tarragon vinegar; 
mix well, then add 1 teaspoon salt, as much paprika as liked, 
1-3 teaspoon dry mustard. Mix all together thoroughly and 
put in cool place. Chop 8 small sweet pickles fine, also one 
medium sized onion (a clove of garlic may be used instead of 
the onion if preferred) ; add 2-3 tablespoon walnut oil (from 
pickled walnuts) or y 2 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce. 

Mrs. D. O. Macquarrie. 

WHITE MAYONNAISE. 

One cup cream, 1 tablespoon flour, 3 tablespoons white wine 
vinegar, 2 tablespoons butter, J / 2 teaspoon powdered sugar, 
1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon white pepper, l / 2 teaspoon dry 
mustard, whites of 2 eggs. Cook all together in double boiler, 
stirring constantly until thick and smooth, adding the whipped 
whites of the eggs just before taking from the fire. Thin with 
cream if necessary. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

One saltspoonful salt, y 2 saltspoonful pepper, 3 tablespoon- 
fuls oil, 34 teaspoonful onion juice, 1 tablespoonful vinegar. 
Mix in order given, adding oil slowly. 

63 



FRENCH DRESSING. 

Beat 2 tablespoonfuls of good olive oil until creamy, then 
add 2 saltspoonfuls salt and 1 of paprika, beating all the while ; 
beat in gradually 2 tablespoonfuls tarragon vinegar. This 
is enough for one quart of salad. It can be served on cold 
cooked brussels sprouts, beets, peas, beans, cauliflower and all 
the fresh vegetables that are used for salads.. 



"SIDNEY SMITH'S WINTER SALAD." 

Two large potatoes passed thro' kitchen sieve, 

Unwonted softness to the salad give ; 

Of mordaunt mustard add a single spoon — 

Distrust the condiment which bites too soon ; 

But deem it not, tho' made of herbs, a fault 

To add a double quantity of salt ; 

Three times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, 

And once with vinegar procured from town. 

True flavor needs it, and your poet begs 

The pounded yellow of two well boiled eggs. 

Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl, 

And, half suspected, animate the whole ; 

And, lastly, on the favored compound toss 

A magic teaspoon of Anchovy sauce. 

Then, tho' green turtle fail, tho' venison's tough, 

Tho' ham and turkey are not boiled enough, 

Serenely full, the epicure shall say, 

"Fate cannot harm me — I have dined to-day !" 



VEGETABLE SALAD. 

Three yolks of eggs, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 small teaspoon 
dry mustard, 1 even teaspoon black pepper, 1 dash red pepper, 
1 dash ginger ; beat all thoroughly, then add 3 tablespoons sour 
cream, 4 tablespoons strong vinegar ; cook all together in double 
saucepan ; 1 pint chopped cabbage, 1 pint celery cut fine, y 2 
medium sized onion, 1 good sized cucumber, seeded and cut in 
dice. Make a bed of celery cut in 3-inch lengths and crisped 
in ice water ; put in salad, mixed with dressing. 

64 



GERMAN POTATO SALAD. 

Two quarts of sliced cold cooked potatoes. Pour boiling 
water on potatoes and drain thoroughly. Then add salt and 
pepper to taste, 1 grated or sliced onion. Cut bacon in dice 
and fry until crisp, then add y 2 cup cider vinegar. Let it 
come to a boil, pour over potatoes and mix well. 

Miss Becker. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Peel cucumbers and cut in two lengthwise. Put in cool 
place until ready to serve. (Scrape out the inside.) Make a 
filling of chopped tomatoes, seasoned with onion juice, mixed 
with any good mayonnaise dressing. 

VEGETABLE SALAD. 

One pint cold boiled string beans, cut in inch pieces, 3 cold 
boiled beets, diced, 3 cold boiled carrots, diced, 1 cup cooked 
peas. Mix with a French dressing and garnish with celery. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Cut 1 quart of boiled potatoes into dice. Sprinkle over them 
a teaspoon of chopped onion and 1 of chopped parsley. Heat 
1 cup of vinegar to the boiling point, add 2 tablespoons of 
butter and season with salt and pepper. Boil 3 eggs hard, cool 
and slice each lengthwise into quarters. Garnish the potatoes 
with these and pour dressing over whole. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD. 

Two tablespoons salad oil, 2 tablespoons tarragon vinegar; 
mix well, then add 1 teaspoon salt, as much paprika as liked, 
1-3 teaspoon dry mustard. Mix all together thoroughly and 
put in cool place. Chop about 8 gherkins (sweet) fine, also 
1 medium sized onion, which add to the pickles; add 2-3 
tablespoon walnut oil (from picked walnuts), 1 dash anchovy 
oil. Add to dressing and pour over chilled asparagus. 

Mrs. D. O. Macquarrie. 

65 



SALADE COLUMBINE. 

1 One quart cooked and strained tomatoes ; add 1 teaspoon 
sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, \y 2 teaspoon vinegar, 1 dash of red 
pepper ; dissolve y 2 box of gelatine in as little water as possible. 
Stir into hot tomato preparation. Mould in small cups and 
serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise dressing. Two or 
three shrimps add to the effect. Tomatoes may be more highly 
seasoned with spices if desired. Mrs. August Heuer. 

NOVELTY SALAD. 

Pare and grate 3 cucumbers, simmer in a cup of water for 
5 minutes. Add enough hot water to make a pint, juice of 

1 lemon, ^4 teaspoon salt, saltspoon of white pepper and 2 
tablespoons of gelatine. Pour into ring mould to set. When 
chilled, serve with sliced tomatoes and mayonnaise. 

Mrs. Joseph G. Peters. 

ITALIAN SALAD. 

Take 2 anchovies and mash to a pulp, with a little of the oil 
the anchovies come in. Break 1 clove of garlic into 2 or 3 
pieces and add to anchovies. Add 3 tablespoons tarragon vine- 
gar gradually with 2 saltspoons salt and 1 white pepper. Then 
beat in 6 tablespoons oil very slowly until all are nicely blended. 
Put on ice until ready to be served. This is nice served on 
head lettuce, endive or watercress. Mrs. Hubbard. 

TOMATO JELLY SALAD. 

Three-quarters box gelatine soaked in y 2 cup cold water. 
Cook can of tomatoes with y 2 onion, 1 stalk celery, 1 bay leaf, 

2 cloves, 1 teaspoon salt, a little parsley and dash of paprika. 
Cook for 10 minutes, then strain and add 2 tablespoons tarragon 
vinegar and the gelatine. Turn into moulds. Serve with 
mayonnaise. Mrs. Powell. 

STUFFED BEET SALAD. 

Boil large beets and scrape off skins. When cold scoop out 
the insides. Chop up equal parts of beets, ham and celery. 
Add a little parsley. Mix with enough salad dressing (mayon- 
naise) to moisten. Be careful about using too much of the 
beet, as it makes it too sweet. Mrs. G. W. Powell. 



TOMATO SALAD. 

Peel good sized tomatoes, cut in halves and put on ice until 
thoroughly chilled. Make a good French dressing and when 
ready to serve put a teaspoon of pearl onions on each half 
tomato. Serve on lettuce leaves, and pour about 1 tablespoon 
dressing over each one. Mrs. E. C. Noe. 

VEGETABLE SALAD. 

Take cold vegetables left over, such as potatoes, peas, string 
beans, beets, etc., chill them on ice, cover with mayonnaise 
dressing and serve on lettuce. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Eight cold boiled potatoes and 1 small cucumber cut fine, 
1 small onion, 3 stalks tender celery cut fine. Mix with mayon- 
naise dressing and in center put 2 or 3. tablespoonfuls cold 
boiled beets cut fine. 

STRING BEAN SALAD. 

Cook 1 quart of strjng beans tender, salt; when cold add 
1 medium sized cucumber cut in small pieces, y 2 cup chopped 
olives, 1 small cupful chopped English walnuts. Mix with any 
good salad dressing. Anne Mitchell, Albany, N. Y. 

COLD SLAW. 

Boil half a cup of vinegar with 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar, y 2 
teaspoonful each of salt and mustard and y 2 saltspoonful of 
pepper. Rub a quarter of a cup of butter with 1 teaspoonful 
of flour to a cream and pour the boiling vinegar on it. Cook 
5 minutes, then pour it over 1 well beaten egg. Mix this 
dressing while hot with 1 pint of red or white shaved or 
chopped cabbage. Mrs. Lewis. 

ITALIAN SALAD. 

One cup boiled beets chopped fine, y 2 cup boiled ham 
chopped, 1 cup celery cut thin. Mix, add a good salad dress- 
ing and garnish with celery leaves. 

Mrs. F. C Gilbert, Duluth, Minn. 

67 



KING EDWARD'S SALAD. 

Two heads of lettuce, uncurl each leaf, break in 3 pieces 
as it drops in the salad bowl ; 3 bunches of the smallest radishes 
grown, drop in with the leaves ; 3 little cucumbers, pickle size, 
shave with cabbage shaver, scatter in layers. Add 3 olives 
stoned ; cut 1 apple in small bits ; cut olives in quarters. Serve 
with French dressing. Mrs. Henry S. Harris. 

COMBINATION SALAD. 

Peel and slice 1 cucumber, peel and slice 3 tomatoes, slice 
thin 1 medium sized onion, cut 1 green pepper in small pieces, 
being careful to remove all the seeds ; 2 heads of lettuce washed 
and drained. Toss this up with any good French dressing. 
Have everything cold and the lettuce crisp. Mrs. E. C. Noe. 

SHAD ROE SALAD. 

Soak the roe in cold water for about 5 minutes ; then put it 
into a quart of boiling water, seasoning with 2 teaspoons salt, 
1 tablespoon chopped onion, y 2 bay leaf, 1 teaspoon mixed 
whole spice and 2 tablespoons lemon juice. Simmer for about 
15 minutes, add cold water gradually so as not to break the 
roe, drop a piece of ice in the water and let it stand until thor- 
oughly chilled. Then cut into dice. Take medium sized toma- 
toes, cut off the stem end and scoop out the seeds and pulp. 
Put on ice until ready to serve. Then fill with the roe, pour 
over a good French dressing and serve on a bed of watercress. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

Pick over 1 can of shrimps, removing the black line ; add 2 
cups finely cut celery. Break the shrimps in small pieces. Mix 
with mayonnaise dressing and place on ice until thoroughly 
chilled. When ready to serve place on lettuce leaves and add 
more mayonnaise. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Cut 1 pint of lobster meat in dice, season with a French dress- 
ing and keep on ice until ready to serve. Then mix with y 2 
of the mayonnaise dressing. Make nests of crisp lettuce leaves, 
the poorer leaves can be broken and mixed with the lobster. 

68 



Put a large spoonful of the lettue in each leaf with a spoonful 
of the dressing on top. Garnish with capers and pounded coral 
sprinkled over the dressing, and with lobster claws and parsley 
around the edge. Mrs. Lincoln. 

SALMON SALAD. 

One can salmon. 3 boiled potatoes, 3 hard boiled eggs, me- 
dittifi sized onion and some chopped celery. For dressing take 
1 teaspoon sugar, 1 teaspoon mustard, 1 teaspoon flour, scant 
spoon salt, y 2 cup cream, y 2 cup vinegar, 1 egg, butter size of 
walnut, pinch of cayenne pepper. Put in double boiler and cook 
until it thickens. Lillian L. Binz. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

One quart small oysters, 1 pint chopped celery, 3 tablespoons 
vinegar, 1 tablespoon oil, salt and pepper to taste. Let the 
oysters come to a boil in their own liquor. Drain, season with 
the salt and pepper, vinegar and oil. Set aside to get cold. 
When ready to serve drain the oysters, add the celery. Arrange 
on lettuce leaves and serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

Mrs. L. P. Hurter. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

Cut shrimps into halves and put into molds. Pour over 
lemon jelly made without sweetening and season well. Turn 
out on lettuce leaves. Put 2 small shrimps on top and pour 
over it a mayonnaise dressing. Mrs. Peters. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

Break a pint of fresh or canned shrimps into halves ; peel 
and quarter 1 large cucumber, take out seeds and cut into dice. 
Mix with shrimps and marinate with a good French dressing. 
Put on ice until chilled through. Wash and chill in ice water 
the white part of two heads of endive. When ready to serve 
make a border of the endive, drain and put shrimps and cucum- 
ber in center and dress with a good mayonnaise. This is very 
nice served in tomato shells on lettuce leaves. 

Mrs. F. E. Hubbard. 

69 



AQUARIUM SALAD. 

Wash 2 bunches fresh mint and pour over it 1 pint boiling 
water. Soak 2 tablespoons gelatine in 1 cup cold water y 2 
hour, then add the juice of 3 lemons, %. cup sugar and pour 
over hot mint water. Stir until dissolved. Strain and color with 
any good green coloring. Wet a mould, put in dishpan of ice 
water. Pour the jelly into the mould to a depth of 1 inch. 
When it is set, put in a layer of yellow sardines and pour on 
more jelly. Let this harden, then add more fish and jelly. Then 
wash and dry the inside leaves of one or more heads of let- 
tuce. Make a layer of these representing shells; pour on rest 
of jelly to make a smooth finish to mould. Set away to harden. 
Serve with mayonnaise and garnish with watercress. 

Mrs. S. F. Klohs. 

ALMOND SALAD. 

One pound almonds shelled and blanched, cut in halves; 1 
pint celery cut in small pieces. Mix all together with 2 table- 
spoons vinegar, salt and pepper to taste. Put in cool place for 
2 hours, drain, mix with a good mayonnaise dressing and 
serve on lettuce. Mrs. Hurter. 

CHESTNUT SALAD. 

Boil large Spanish chestnuts for about 10 minutes. Re- 
move the shells and boil again in salted water until tender. Put 
in ice cold water, until thoroughly chilled, drain well, serve on 
lettuce leaves with a mayonnaise dressing. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

One-half pound of white grapes, seeded, and cut in half, 1 
grape fruit cut in half and pulp scooped out, 1 banana quar- 
tered and cut in small pieces, 12 Maraschino cherries. Chill 
thoroughly. Whip a gill of sweet cream until very light, add 
gradually 2 tablespoons of sugar and four tablespoons tarra- 
gon vinegar. Arrange fruit in bowl with the bleached leaves 
of head lettuce. Pour dressing over salad when ready to serve. 

GRAPE FRUIT SALAD. 

Allow half of a grape fruit for each person. Use y 2 as 
much celery as fruit. Shell and break up in small pieces about 

70 



3 walnuts for each person. Mix all together with a mayon- 
naise dressing and serve on lettuce. 

APPLE SALAD. 

Pare and core 1 medium sized tart apple for each person. 
Put in ice box until thoroughly chilled. Make a mayonnaise 
dressing, add chopped pecan nuts. Fill each apple with a 
dressing and serve on lettuce. 

NUT SALAD. 

Use equal parts of fresh English walnut meats broken in 
small pieces and crisp celery cut in inch lengths. Mix with a 
good mayonnaise dressing and let stand an hour before serv- 
ing. Serve on watercress or head lettuce. 

APPLE SALAD. 

Peel and core 4 large, tart apples, seed and cut in half 1 
pound white grapes, 34 pound shelled pecans broken in small 
pieces. Mix with a mayonnaise dressing and dress with the 
white part of endive. 

• FRUIT SALAP. 

One-half pound English walnuts broken in small pieces, 3 
stalks celery cut fine, y 2 pound white California grapes seeded, 
3 large Jonathan apples diced. Mix with mayonnaise dressing. 
Serve on lettuce. Mrs. Fred Caine. 

CHERRY SALAD. 

Take Maraschino cherries, drain off liquor and put into the 
cavity left by the stone a hazel nut meat, blanched in hot water 
and skin rubbed off. Have the nuts cold before placing in 
cherries. Set the prepared cherries on ice until ready to serve. 
Cover with mayonnaise dressing and serve on lettuce. 

OR 
Mix Maraschino cherries with English walnut meats, add 
a little of the juice and add either French or mayonnaise dress- 
ing. 

71 



BANANA AND PEANUT SALAD. 

Slice bananas lengthwise. Cover with finely ground peanuts 
and serve on lettuce leaves with rich mayonnaise. 

Mrs. Genevieve Bookwalter. 

CHERRY SALAD. 

Take California cherries, stone and add chopped English 
walnuts and chopped celery in equal parts. Mix with mayon- 
naise dressing and serve on lettuce leaves cut in strips or let- 
tuce cups. 

PEANUT SALAD. 

Soak 1 cup of nuts in olive oil, drain and mix with 2 cups 
of finely cut celery and 1 dozen pitted olives. Mix with a 
mayonnaise dressing and serve on lettuce. 

From "Tried and True" 

ORANGE SALAD. 

Peel and cut 2 oranges in small pieces, add 34 of a pound of 
English walnuts blanched. Serve on lettuce with mayon- 
naise dressing. Mrs. Henry S. Harris. 

WHITE GRAPE AND CELERY SALAD. 

Seed California grapes; add equal parts of diced celery. 
Serve on lettuce leaf with oil mayonnaise. Grace Jones. 

GRAPE FRUIT SALAD. 

Peel and break the grape fruit up into pieces, then add an 
equal amount of celery cut in rather small pieces. Serve on 
lettuce with French dressing. Mrs. Hal D. Tracey. 

COCOANUT SALAD. 

One-half cocoanut grated, 2 large Jonathan apples peeled, 
cored and diced, 2 stalks celery cut fine, 2 tablespoons sweet 
onions chopped very fine, 1 tablespoon parsley cut fine, 3 chili 
peppers. Mix, cover with a good French dressing and serve, 
either in cucumber boats or tomato shells. 

72 



BANANA SALAD. 

Cut bananas in half lengthwise, place on lettuce leaves and 
pour over a good boiled salad dressing to which has been added 
1 cup of -whipped cream and chopped almonds. Garnish with 
Maraschino and mint cherries. Mrs. John Vance Cheney. 

LEMON CREAM SALAD. 

Beat yolks of 3 eggs very light, add gradually 1 small cup- 
ful sugar, 2 teaspoons flour and the juice of 2 lemons. Melt 

1 teaspoon butter in 1*4 cupfuls boiling water, add the beaten 
egg mixture and boil' until thick. Remove from fire and whip 
in 1 cup of whipped cream. Peel and cut in small pieces 1 
large, tart apple, slice 4 bananas, six thick slices of canned 
pineapple. Mix and chill thoroughly. When ready to serve 
mix with dressing and put on lettuce leaves in fancy fruit 
glasses. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Pineapple, oranges, bananas, white grapes seeded and peeled 
peaches, as many as desired. Put in a bowl, squeeze the juice of 

2 large oranges in another bowl ; add y 2 pound of powdered 
sugar, y 2 pint of Maraschino, 1 gill of brandy, 3 tablespoons of 
cracked ice. Mix well, pour over fruit. Beat a quart of fresh 
cream stiff, add sugar and Maraschino, 1 gill. Mix gently. 
Put the cream high in the center; add a few grapes. Pretty 
salad and good. Mrs. Henry S. Harris. 

GRAPE FRUIT SALAD. 

Prepare the grape fruit as for the table, sweeten to taste. 
Mix 1 tablespoon of salad oil with the juice of 1 lemon. Sea- 
son with paprika and salt, pour over grape fruit. Serve on 
lettuce. Maraschino improves it, adding the cherries on top 
of the salad. Mrs. Henry S. Harris. 

MARGUERITE SALAD. 

Take 6 hard boiled eggs, rub yolks through sieve, chop 
whites fine, moisten with mayonnaise dressing. Make cups 
of lettuce leaves, putting in each 1 teaspoonful of the yolks 
and around them the chopped whites. 

73 



CHICKEN SALAD. 

Boil 1 chicken until tender. Chop moderately fine the whites 
of 12 hard boiled eggs. Cut the chicken up in small pieces. 
Measure the chicken and add as much chopped celery and cab- 
bage in equal parts. Mash the yolks fine, add 2 tablespoons 
butter, 2 teaspoons sugar, 1 teaspoon mixed mustard. Season 
to taste with salt and pepper, then beat in gradually J4 cup 
good vinegar. Mix chicken, whites of eggs and celery and 
cabbage, put into bowl, pour over dressing and garnish with 
lettuce leaves and stuffed olives. Mrs. Lawrence. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD. 

Soak sweetbreads in salt water for an hour, then boil until 
tender. Cool, then chop fine and mix with 1-3 as much celery. 
Serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

COTTAGE CHEESE SALAD. 

Mix cottage cheese with cream, season w r ith salt and pepper, 
make into little balls and serve with watercress on lettuce 
leaves, with either a French dressing or a mayonnaise. 

DEVILLED HAM SALAD. 

Mix 2 teaspoons devilled ham with 4 tablespoons grated 
horseradish. Sprinkle ^ teaspoon salt over 3 cups of cold 
boiled potatoes diced ; add 1 teaspoon of lemon juice ; stir in 
gently Y^ of ham mixture and pour balance over all. Garnish 
with hard boiled eggs cut in quarters lengthwise, sliced gher- 
kins and sprigs of fresh parsley. 

SALAD. 

White cherries stuffed with hazel nuts or filberts on crisp 
lettuce leaves, shaped like a cup, white mayonnaise. A very 
pretty salad for a green and white luncheon. Ida S. Downs. 

CHRYSANTHEMUM SALAD. 

Take small yellow chrysanthemums and put them into boil- 
ing water and cook about 2 minutes. Drain and put into very 
cold water until ready to serve. Then drain again and put into 
a bowl with sugar, salt and vinegar enough to season. Mix 
thoroughly. Mrs. Tex Miyatnori. 

74 



NASTURTIUM SALAD. 

Take cucumbers, peel them and cut in halves lengthwise. 
Scoop out all the seeds and lay in ice cold water until ready to 
serve. (One-half cucumber for each person to be served.) 
For each cucumber chop fine 1 peeled tomato, 4 or 5 medium 
sized nasturtium leaves, 1 small onion and y 2 cup chopped cab- 
bage. Make a white mayonnaise dressing. Mix y 2 cupful of 
it with vegetables. Fill each cucumber boat with salad. Use 
nasturtium leaves and blossoms for garnishing instead of let- 
tuce. Mrs. F. E. Hubbard. 



PASTRY. 

"What moistens the lip and zvhat brightens the eye, 
What calls back the past like the rich pumpkin pie?" 

— Whittier. 

PASTRY. 

The water used in making pastry should always be cold, and 
in summer ice water is the best. Fruit and filling should always 
be cold when put into the crust. 

PUFF PASTE. 

One cup flour, 1 cup butter, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful 
sugar, y 2 teaspoonful baking powder. Rub all well together. 
Beat 1 tgg very light, add 1 small bottle of very cold cream and 
add to the other ingredients. You may have to add a little 
more flour. Handle as little as possible. Mrs. A. Marks. 

PLAIN PIE CRUST. 

Sufficient for 1 pie : 1 cup of flour to Yz cup of lard, Y^ tea- 
spoonful salt and pinch of baking powder, 3 tablespoons ice 
water. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Make a custard of the yolks of 3 eggs and the white of 1, ^ 
cup of sugar, 2 cups of rich milk, a pinch of salt and flavoring 
to suit the taste. Bake it in ordinary crust. Put it in quick 

75 



oven that the crust may not be heavy, and as soon as it is 
heated remove it to a place in the oven of a more moderate 
heat, that the custard may bake slowly and not curdle. When 
done beat the whites of 2 eggs to a froth ; add tablespoon sugar 
and spread over the top and return to the oven to brown. 

Mrs. E. C. Noe. 

CHERRY PIE. 

Line the dish with good crust and fill with ripe cherries that 
have previously been pitted, regulating the quantity of sugar 
you scatter over them by their sweetness. Sprinkle 1 table- 
spoonful flour over all and cover and bake in medium hot oven 
about y 2 hour. 

POTATO PIE. 

Cream 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 cup sugar (scant), yolks of 
2 eggs, beaten until they are very light, 1 cup of milk, 1 cup of 
cold mashed potatoes pressed through colander, add a little 
salt. Lastly add the beaten whites of 2 eggs and bake with 1 
crust, same as custard pie. Mrs. Frank Upham. 

MRS BAST'S MINCE MEAT. 

Four pounds lean beef, y 2 pound suet, 1 pound raisins, 1 
pound currants, 2 pounds brown sugar, y 2 peck apples, % pound 
citron, 1 tablespoon cloves, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 1 table- 
spoon mace, 2 nutmegs, cider to taste. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Five pounds very lean boiled beef chopped fine, 4 pounds 
seeded raisins, 4 pounds currants, 3 pounds finely chopped suet, 
1^2 pecks finely chopped apples, 1 tablespoonful salt, 4 pounds 
brown sugar, 3 ounces ground cinnamon, 3 ounces allspice, 3 
ounces cloves. Mix thoroughly, add 3 quarts scalding hot 
sweet apple cider. When thoroughly mixed add 1 quart best 
brandy. Let stand in crock 3 weeks before using. Add more 
spice and cider if necessary. Dr. Jessie G. Forrester. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

Make puff paste of 1 cup flour and little salt, y 2 cup lard and 
% cup water. Line two pie plates. 

76 



CUSTARD. 

Yolks of 6 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 pint sweet milk, 1 fresh co- 
coanut (grated). Beat whites with little sugar and put on top 
and brown in oven. Lillian L. Bins. 

CREAM COCOANUT PIE. 

Bake pie crust, then make rilling and when cool fill the crust 
and bake for about 10 minutes in a moderate oven. Filling: 

1 quart cream or milk, add a little piece of butter. Cook in a 
double boiler and add to same 1 tablespoon of corn starch or 
flour. Grate cocoanut, add 1 cup sugar and pour boiling mix- 
ture over it. When cold, or nearly so, add the beaten whites of 
4 eggs. Bake with one crust. Make two pies. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

Four tablespoonfuls grated chocolate, 1 pint water, yolk of 

2 eggs, 2 tablespoons cornstarch, 6 tablespoons sugar. Boil 
until thick. 1 teaspoon vanilla. Bake the crust, pour in choco- 
late. Beat whites of eggs with 1 cup of sugar. Spread over 
the top and brown. Mrs. M. L. Fixen. 

LEMON PIE. 

Three-fourths cup sugar, yolks of 3 eggs, 2 tablespoons 
melted butter, 2 tablespoons sweet cream, juice and grated rind 
of 1 lemon. Frosting: Whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff, ^4 cup 
of sugar. Mrs. John Vance Cheny. 

COCOANUT CREAM PIE. 

Heat 2 cups sweet milk, thicken with 2 tablespoons corn 
starch, add yolks of 2 eggs, sugar and. flavoring to taste. It 
should be very thick so it will be firm when cold. Stir in y 2 
cup of fresh grated cocoanut and spread in a previously baked 
rich crust. Beat up the whites of the 2 eggs with sugar to a 
stiff merangue, sprinkle thickly with cocoanut and brown in 
oven. Mrs. Seymour Jones. 

SQUASH PIE. 

Two teacups of boiled squash, ^4 teacup brown sugar, 3 eggs, 
2 tablespoonfuls of molasses, 1 tablespoonful melted butter, y 2 
teaspoonful ginger, y 2 teaspoonful cinnamon, 2 teacups of milk, 
a little salt. Makes 2 pies. 

77 



APPLE LEMON PIE. 

Grate the yellow rind of 1 lemon, add the juice, 1 egg, 1 cup 
of sugar. Beat well together, then stir in 2 medium sized 
apples, grated. Bake between two crusts. 

Mrs. Almet Powell. 

NEW ENGLAND PUMPKIN PIE. 

Stew the pumpkin until soft and then press through a sieve. 
To a quart of pumpkin allow 2 quarts of milk and 6 eggs. Beat 
the eggs well and stir into the milk, adding gradually the sifted 
pumpkin, add a little melted butter, sweeten to taste, a little 
salt, a very little cinnamon, 1 teaspoon ful^ginger. Pour into 
shells of pie paste and bake in a quick oven. 

RHUBARB PIE.' 

Peel the rhubarb, cut into inch pieces, pour boiling water 
over it, let it stand 10 minutes, drain, fill the pie plate, sprinkle 
thickly with 1 cup of sugar, dot with bits of butter, cover with 
a crust and bake. Boston Cook Book. 

LEMON PIE. 

Line pie plate with rich crust. Boil 1 small cup milk and 1 
teaspoonful flour in a double boiler for 3 minutes. Grate the 
rind and squeeze the juice of 1 lemon, add to it 6 tablespoons 
sugar (heaping) and yolks of 2 eggs, beat well and add milk 
and flour. Stir together and pour into pie plate, bake 15 min- 
utes. Have the whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff, add 3 tablespoons 
of granulated sugar, spread on pie and return to oven and 
brown. 

MOCK CHERRY PIE. 

One and one-half cups cranberries (split), y 2 cup large 
raisins stoned and chopped, 1 cup boiling water, 1 cup sugar 
(granulated), 1 tablespoon flour, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Bake 
with two crusts. 

PINEAPPLE PIE. 

One cup sugar, l / 2 cup butter, 1 cup sweet cream, 5 eggs, 1 
pineapple, grated. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add 
beaten yolks of eggs, then the pineapple and cream, and lastly 

78 



the beaten whites, whipped in lightly ; or the whites can be used 
in a meringue for the top. Bake with an under crust only.' 

Mrs. F. E. Hubbard. 

CUPID'S WELLS. 

Cut the rounds of puff paste of 3 or 4 different sizes, use the 

largest one for the bottom and cut the centers from the others, 

.leaving the rims of different width, and put them on the whole 

round, with the narrowest at the top. Bake and fill with the 

following : 1 can grated pineapple, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup water, 

1 tablespoonfu] flour. Cook slowly 30 minutes. This mixture 
wiH make 14 tarts. 

LEMON FIE FILLING. 

Juice of 2 lemons, grated rind of 1 lemon, yolks of 2 eggs, 
1*4 cups of sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls corn starch, slightly 
rounded, 1 cup of boiling water ; add the water after the other 
ingredients* have been thoroughly beaten together, then cook 
until clear. Have the pie crust baked before filling. Whites of 

2 eggs for the meringue on pie. Mrs. C. M. Walworth. 

^ LEMON PIE. 

One tablespoonful oicorn starch stirred into a little cold 
water, add 1 cup of boiling water, let it come to a boil, then add 
7 tablespoonfuls of sugar, yolks of 4 eggs, grated rind and juice 
of 2 lemons. Bake with a bottom crust. Then beat the whites , 
of the 4 eggs with 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, cover the top of 
the pie and brown slightly. 

DELICIOUS PRUNE PIE. 

Make a crust of 1 large cup flour and y 2 cup butter ; a little 
water very cold. Roll, then take 1 tablespoonful butter and 
put it over the rolled crust in small bits ; fold, and leave in the 
ice chest half an hour before using. This method of making 
the crust gives it a fluffy, puff-paste-like consistency. For the 
filling: Scald 24 pound prunes, then boil until tender with 4 
tablespoonfuls sugar and ^2 cup of fruit juice (any left over 
juice from preserved fruit will do) ; stone ; add 2 tablespoonfuls 
chocolate and 3 tablespoonfuls of the juice. Cover with nar- 
row strips crossing each other. 

Mrs. A. B. Ward, 176 Twenty-fourth St., Milwaukee, Wis. 

79 



CURRANT PIE. 

One cup mashed ripe currants, 1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls 
water, 2 tablespoonfuls flour and beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Frost 
top with whites of eggs whipped with 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
Very nice. 

PINEAPPLE PIE. 

One small pineapple grated fine or y 2 can grated pineapple, 
1 cup cream, y 2 cup sugar, yolks of 3 eggs. Mix all together 
and bake in a rich paste, add the whites of the eggs, well beaten, 
with 2 tablespoonfuls granulated sugar. 

Mrs. Alonzo P. Daniels. 

LEMON PI£. 
(One pie onlj.) 
One cup of sugar, % cup of butter, 3 eggs beaten together, 1 
lemon, juice only. Bake in crust. 

PIE CRUST. 

One cup of winter wheat flour, 1 tablespoonful of cottolene 
or 2 tablespoonfuls of lard, y 2 teaspoonful salt, 3 tablespoonfuls 
of cold water. Miss Jennie Drake. 

PRUNE PIE. 

Soak the prunes in cold water (1 pound) and when fully 
swollen, stew them in water to cover until very tender. Press 
through a strainer, flavor with lemon or pineapple and sweeten 
to taste. To each cup of the strained prunes allow 2 eggs and 
y 2 cup of cream. Beat the yolks, mix with cream, then stir 
into prunes, adding the stiffly beaten whites the very last thing. 
Make a rich pastry, line the tin and pour in the prune mixture 
and bake in a quick oven. Mrs. Lincoln. 

WASHINGTON PIE. 

One cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 large kitchen spoon butter, 2 cups 
flour, 2 level teaspoons cream tartar, 1 level teaspoon soda" (3 
teaspoons baking powder can.be used instead of cream of tartar 
and soda) . Salt and flavor to taste. Filling : 1 cup milk, yolks 
of 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon flour, 2 tablespoons sugar. Flavor with 
vanilla. Cook in -double boiler, stirring constantly until it 
thickens. Mrs. E. J. Henry. 

80 



PAN DOUDY FOR DESSERT. 

Take a nice white granite iron deep baking dish and put 
thin pie crust all on the sides, inside the pan ; cut the apples 
(pippins) into dice, toss it full of these pieces well wet up with 
cold water and sugar and little cinnamon or nutmeg and cover 
with upper crust when well baked (slowly). Take off upper 
crust and add plenty of fresh butter and more sugar and place 
back again and put something heavy on top when cooling. Eat 
with cream. Mrs. N. A. Pennoyer, Kenosha, Wis. 

SQUASH PIE. 

One pint of milk, 1 pint of stewed squash, 1 level tablespoon 
of butter, 1 level teaspoon of salt, 1 good half cup of sugar. 
y 2 teaspoon of ginger, 34 of a nutmeg, grated, 2 eggs, a piece 
of stick cinnamon about 2 inches long, 1 teaspoon of ground 
cinnamon, % teaspoon of cloves. Put the milk and cinnamon 
on the fire in the double boiler and cook for 20 minutes. Rub 
the squash through a fine strainer and add the salt, sugar, but- 
ter and spices to it. Pour the boiling milk on the mixture. Re- 
move the cinnamon and beat well, then set away to cool. When 
cool add the eggs, which should have been thoroughly beaten 
with a spoon. Line a deep plate with pastry and pour the 
squash mixture into it. Bake for 45 minutes in a moderate 
oven. Miss L. Thietne. 



PUDDINGS, 

"The proof of the pudding is in the eating." {Or if you pre- 
fer the later version "in kissing the cook") 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One and one-half pounds each raisins and currants, Yz pound 
each citron and lemon, 1 pound each suet, brown sugar and 
bread crumbs, 1 nutmeg, 1 tablespoonful cinnamon, 1 teaspoon- 
ful each cloves and mace, y 2 teaspoonful allspice, 1 gill each 
brandy and wine, 6 eggs. Cut lemon and citron in thin 
slices, chop suet very fine, being careful to remove all strings, 
beat eggs ; put all into bowl, mix well, press into pan smoothly. 

81 



Cover closely before putting in steamer. Steam 5 hours. Serve 
with brandy sauce, for which cream together tablespoonful but- 
ter, 1 cup powdered sugar, add juice of y 2 lemon, stir in 3 
tablespoon fuls boiling water, heat for 2 minutes over fire, or 
until steaming hot, then add quickly the stiffened whites of 2 
eggs, beat very hard. Take from fire, pour in wine glass of 
brandy and serve. This pudding is better if made several 
weeks before using. Leave in pan, put in air tight receptacle. 
When wanted for use put covered pan -in steamer, same as 
when cooking, and steam about an hour. 

Mrs. James Flanigan. 

MARLBORO HOUSE AMBROSIA. 

One pineapple, 1 cocoanut, 1 quart of strawberries, y 2 dozen 
oranges, y 2 dozen bananas. Pare and slice the pineapple round 
the fruit. Pare arid slice the bananas lengthwise, cutting them 
in strips. Divide the oranges in segments, take off all pith and 
lay in fine sugar. Pare the cocoanut and place in ice water. 
Hull the strawberries and keep them cool. An hour before 
serving prepare as many plates as are to be served. Place first 
the slice of pineapple, sift over this sugar and a small amount 
of the cocoanut, grated. Build a nest of the banana strips, log 
cabin style ; fill with the oranges and strawberries, heaping 
high ; sift over the sugar and. grate the cocoanut until white. 
Keep in cold closet until served. Mrs. Guy Magee. 

CUSTARD SOUFFLE. 

Two scant tablespoons of butter, 2 scant tablespoons of 
sugar, 2 scant tablespoons of flour, 1 cup of milk, 4 eggs. Let 
the milk boil. Heat flour and butter together, add to them 
gradually boiling milk. Cook 8 minutes, stirring often. Beat 
sugar and yolks of eggs together, add to the cooked mixture 
and set away to cool. When cool, beat whites of eggs stiff and 
add to the custard. Bake in a buttered pudding dish in a mod- 
erate oven. Serve immediately with cream sauce. 

STEAMED GRAHAM PUDDING. 

One cup molasses, 1 cup Graham flour, 1 cup white flour, 
1 cup sweet milk, 1 cup seeded raisins, 1 cup currants, 1 egg y 
1 teaspoonful soda. Steam 2y 2 hours. Use chopped figs in 
place of raisins and currants if preferred. Mrs. Chas. Wilson. 

82 



BAKED APPLE TAPIOCA. 

Let 1 cupful tapico stand 1 5 minutes in cold water, then pour 
off and add fresh water and let cook until like jelly. Add 1 cup 
sugar, then pour over apples and bake until apples are done. 

PLAIN CANADIAN PLUM PUDDING. 

One and one-half cups bread crumbs, 1 cup grated carrot, 
3 cups flour, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, 2 cups suet, 2^2 cups 
raisins, 1 cup currants, 1 teaspoon soda in \y 2 cups milk, tea- 
spoon baking powder in flour, 1 cup chopped lemon peel. 1 cup 
chopped dates, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, y 2 teaspoon allspice, little 
nutmeg and salt. Steam 4 hours. Use large or small cup for 
measuring, according to size of pudding. 

Mrs. John Pike, Windsor, Ont. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

One quart cream, 4 tablespoonfuls corn starch, 6 tablespoon- 
fuls milk. Sweeten to taste ; flavor with sherry ; cook in double 
boiler till thick. Line the bottom of pudding dish with y 2 pound 
of macaroons which have been dipped in sherry and sprinkle 
over them y 2 pound of candied cherries cut in half, or canned 
ones strained dry. When cream is cold pour over. Serve very 
cold. Mrs. G. W. Powell. 

WALNUT SOUFFLE. 

Five eggs, 1 cup granulated sugar, 1 cup powdered sugar, 
1 cup farina, y 2 teaspoon baking powder, 1 pound English wal- 
nuts shelled and broken in small pieces. Beat yolks of eggs 
and sugar 15 or 20 minutes, add other ingredients and mix 
well. Fold in the whites of eggs last. Bake in moderate oven 
about 30 to 40 minutes. Serve cold with sweetened whipped 
cream, flavored with vanilla. Mrs. L. P. Hurter. 

A DAINTY DESSERT. 

One pint sweet milk in double boiler, 3 yolks eggs beaten 
light, add 3 tablespoonfuls sugar and 1 pinch salt. When milk 
is at boiling point add egg mixture, stir until it thickens, then 
add vanilla to suit taste. Arrange pieces of stale cake in shallow 
dish, pour over the custard and set to cool. Serve as follows : 

83 



3 egg whites beaten and spread over when served ; scatter the 
top with grated cocoanut or blanched shredded almonds. 

Mrs. F. Voigtmann. 

ANGEL PUDDING. 

One pound English walnuts, 9 ounces dates, 7 ounces pow- 
dered sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Chop walnuts and 
dates, add sugar and baking powder ; beat whites of 5 eggs, 
add to above and bake y 2 hour. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. G. W. Powell. 

TURK'S HEAD PUDDING. 

Three eggs, 2 cups milk, 8 tablespoonfuls flour, (sifted three 
times), little salt. Beat a long time. Bake in moderate oven 1 
hour. Serve hot with sauce. Mrs. C. C. Cobb. 

CARAMEL PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, y 2 cup sugar, 3 tablespoons flour (heap- 
ing), 5 eggs — 3 will do. When the milk boils add sugar, yolks 
of eggs and flour to it and thoroughly cook. Add caramel until 
its flavor suits your taste. Salt. Beat whites stiff, add 2 table- 
spoons granulated sugar and when beaten stiff fold in, y 2 cup 
chopped English walnuts. Sprinkle caramel over top and 
brown. Eat cold with cream and sugar. Mrs. A. B. Prindle. 

BUTTERMILK PUDDING. 

Cream together 1 cup butter, 2 cups of sugar, add the beaten 
yolks of 6 eggs and beat together well. In another bowl place 
6 tablespoons of flour and slowly add 1 quart buttermilk. Place 
all together and stir well, then flavor with 1 teaspoonful vanilla 
and the well beaten whites of 6 eggs. Bake the same as custard 
for 40 minutes. Mrs. O. W. Watson. 

JELLIED APPLES. 

Peel and core firm, tart apples, 8 or 10, according to size. 
Put them over the fire in just enough water to cover them and 
sprinkle generously with granulated sugar. Cook slowly until 
tender. Take them out with a split spoon. Place in dish in 
which you wish to serve them. Bring the liquid left from them 
to a boil and add to it y 2 cup of gelatine, which has been soaked 

84 



in a very little water; when this is dissolved pour over the 
apples. Set to cool in ice chest. Serve with cream, plain or 
whipped. Mrs. F. Voigtmann. 

ORANGE FOAM. 

One-half box gelatine, soak in cold water 15 minutes; add 
1 pint boiling water, 2 cups sugar, juice of 4 oranges, juice of 
1 lemon, stir and strain. When thick as syrup add beaten whites 
of 5 eggs. Form in small cups and serve with cream. 

Mrs. G. W. Powell 

DATE SOUFFLE. 

One cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful flour, 1 teaspoon 
baking powder, 1 cup walnuts quartered, 1 cup dates, seeded 
and cut in two. Mix in order written. Baked about y 2 hour 
in moderate oven. Serve with whipped cream, sweetened to 
taste, and flavored with vanilla. Mrs. E. C. Noe. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Two and one-half cups of flour, 1 teaspoonful soda, l / 2 tea- 
spoonful salt, y 2 teaspoonful cinnamon, y 2 teaspoonful nut- 
meg, 1 cup chopped suet, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup of milk, 1 cup of 
molasses, 1 cup shelled and blanched almonds, chopped but not 
too fine. Sift soda, salt and spice into flour, then add suet, 
raisins and nuts, mix thoroughly. Then mix milk with mo- 
lasses and add last. Steam 3 hours. Mrs. G. W. Powell. 

RAISIN PUFFS. 

One-half cup butter, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 eggs, 2 cups flour, 
1 cup milk, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 cup raisins 
chopped fine. Steam in small cups l / 2 hour. 

Mrs. G. W. Powell. 

RAISIN PUDDING. 

One-half cup seeded raisins, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 eggs, 3 
tablespoons melted butter, 1 tablespoon sugar, 2 cups sifted 
flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt. Put into 
well buttered mold and steam 1 hour. Serve with sweet sauce. 

Miss Alma Soderberg. 

85 



FRUIT DESSERT. 

Take a large pineapple, cut the top off thick enough to leave 
the pines intact. Scoop out the inside so as to leave only the 
shell. Take the scooped out pineapple and shred from the core. 
Cut one grape fruit in half and scoop out the pulp. Seed 1 
pound of white grapes. Mix fruit and sweeten to taste. Add 
about 1 dozen Maraschino cherries, y 2 cup Maraschino liquor, 
y 2 cup sherry wine, 1 tablespoon brandy. Put all in pineapple 
shell and cover tight. Place in a very cool place until ready to 
serve, then tie a pretty bow of pink ribbon around the pines be- 
fore sending to table. Mrs. Macquarrie. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

Two eggs, 1 cup molasses, 2 cups flour, 2/3 cup suet, but- 
ter size of walnut, 1 cup sour milk, 1 teaspoonful soda, ]/ 2 tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, T / 2 teaspoonful allspice, 1 cup seeded raisins, 
% teaspoonful salt. Steam 1 hour. Serve with cream. 

Mrs. Emma Bissell. 

BLUEBERRY PUDDING. 

One heaping tablespoonful butter, 1 cup sugar, rub to cream 
with butter, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder in 2 cups flour, 2 
eggs, pinch of salt, 1 cup milk, 1 quart blueberries. Flour ber- 
ries before putting them into batter. Steam 2 hours. Serve 
with hard sauce. Christine Munson. 



MACAROON OMELET. 

(For Sunday night supper.) 
Six eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls water, pinch salt, 6 macaroons, 
rolled into coarse crumbs, 1 large spoonful flour, y 2 teaspoon- 
ful baking powder. Mix baking powder with flour and grad- 
ually add water and unbeaten eggs. Beat well, add salt and 
macaroons. Fry slowly in hot butter and when almost done 
put under broiler to make it puff up. Remove carefully and 
sprinkle powdered sugar over it and garnish with eighths of 
lemons and a large spoonful of currants or raspberry or straw- 
berry jelly. The lemon is to be squeezed over omelet if liked. 

Mrs. N. E. Johnson. 

86 



ORANGE GELATINE (FINE). 

Soak y 2 box Plymouth Rock gelatine in 1 cup cold water. 
When dissolved add 1 cup boiling water. Take juice of 6 
oranges and 1 lemon, the rind of 1 orange and part of the lemon 
rind and 3 cups of sugar. Stir up well, but do not put on the 
fire. Add the gelatine. Let cool, then for 15 minutes beat into 
it the whites of 3 eggs (beaten). Serve in sherbet cups with 
whipped cream. In warm weather prepare the day before 
using. Mrs. Howard Robinson. 

FARINA PUDDING. 

Two ounces of butter, 3 tablespoons of farina, \y 2 pint of 
boiling milk, 5 eggs, 5 tablespoons of sugar, grated rind of 1 
lemon. Melt the butter, mix the farina with it, add the boiling 
milk, cook this to a thick mush. When cool take the yolks of 
the eggs, sugar, grated rind of lemon, whites of eggs, well 
beaten, and mix all well together. Butter a pudding dish, flour 
it over and pour in the pudding. Place in a pan of boiling 
water. Bake 1 hour. Sauce : Yolks of 2 eggs, 4 tablespoons 
of sugar, % pound of butter. Cream butter and sugar together, 
add the eggs, and let it simmer a few minutes. It is best made 
in a bowl and placed in hot water. Mrs. August Heuer, Jr. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

One-third box of Cox's gelatine, dissolved in a tea cup of 
milk, 1 quart of double cream, whipped stiff, 3 eggs, 1 tea cup 
of sugar. Mix the yolks of the eggs, well-beaten, with the milk 
and gelatine, then add the sugar. Pour into the whipped cream, 
without cooking, then add the whites of the eggs, well-beaten, 
and flavor with vanilla, rum or sherry wine. Then pour into 
moulds lined with lady fingers, and put in a cold place. Dis- 
solve the milk and gelatine by heating and stirring. 

Mrs. Edward Fallon. 

APPLE COBBLER. 

Slice 6 or 8 good tart apples in a 3 quart tin pan and add 1 
cup of sugar, 1 heaping, teaspoon of butter, enough hot water 
to not quite cover the apples (many other fruits are equally 
good). Crust for Cobler: 2 cups of sifted flour, sift again 

87 



with 2 heaping teaspoons of baking powder, 1 cup of milk, a 
pinch of salt. Mix well with a spoon and drop on top of the 
appless, leaving a hole in the centre for the steam to come 
through. Cover tight and do not remove the cover until done. 
Set where it will boil very slowly y$ of an hour. Use hard 
sauce or cream and sugar as preferred. (This same receipt, 
with Yz cup more flour, makes a delicious dumpling for pot pie. ) 

Miss Emma Butler. 



GINGER APPLES. 

Two apples (greenings or other hard apples), 1 pound sugar, 

3 cupfuls water, 1 slice lemon, ^2 stick cinnamon, % pound 
candied ginger. Make a syrup of sugar, water, ginger, lemon 
and cinnamon. Pare apples with silver knife and throw in cold 
water to preserve color. Put syrup in a small stone crock and 
whole apples in syrup. Bake in a slow oven, turning occasion- 
ally, until tender and transparent. Serve cold with a large 
spoonful of whipped cream. Mrs. N. E. Johnson. 

PUDDING DIPLOMATE. 
(A La Tanty.) 
Two ounces Malaga grapes, 2 ounces Sultana grapes, 2 
ounces Corinth grapes, 2 ounces candied orange or lemon peel, 

4 ounces stale lady fingers, 4 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 
tablespoon cornstarch, 1 pint milk, 1 tablespoonful rum. Place 
alternate rows of fruit and lady fingers in a mold (buttered) 
beginning with fruit and ending with lady fingers. Mix the 
remaining ingredients and pour over the whole. Place in 
steamer and steam for two hours. Serve with a Sambayon 
sauce. Mrs. N. E. Johnson. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

Scald 1 quart of milk. Add 3 tablespoons of butter, 5 table- 
spoons of flour rubbed together. Cook until thick. When cool 
add yolks of 12 eggs and 6 tablespoons of sugar. Then fold in 
the whites of 12 eggs, which have been beaten stiff. Flavor 
and bake in moderate oven. Serve with hard sauce. 

Miss Drake. 

88 



QUEEN OF CUSTARDS. 

Put one pint of new milk in double boiler, sweetened to 
taste. Beat 4 eggs very light and add to milk. Cook until a 
thick coating covers the spoon and set aside to cool. Dissolve 
y 2 box of gelatine and add to custard when it begins to cool. 
After it begins to congeal, add ^4 pound of candied cherries and 
34 pound of candied pineapple. A quarter pound of almonds 
blanched and chopped. Stir all these into custard. Add 1 pint 
of whipped cream and put into a mold to freeze. A pint of rich 
cream, whipped stiff and added to custard, improves it very 
much. Serve with hot sauce. Sauce : One pint of brown 
sugar, y 2 pint of water, 1 heaping tablespoon of butter, and 
wine from maraschino cherries. Flavor with whiskey. Cook 
until thick. Slice the pudding and pour sauce over it, or you 
can serve with whipped cream. It is better with sauce. 

Miss Jennie A. Drake. 

HARTFORD PUDDING. 

One cup stale bread crumbs, 1 cup chopped suet, 1 cup coffee 
A sugar, 1 cup flour, 1 cup sour milk, 1 teaspoonful of soda, 1 
nutmeg grated, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 1 pound of raisins. 
Steam three hours. Delicious and cheap. Serve with hot 
sauce. Miss Drake. 

CARAMEL TAPIOCA. 

Soak 1 cupful tapioca in 2 cupfuls cold water. Cook until 
transparent, adding more w r ater if necessary. Then add 1 cup 
of browned sugar, a good pinch of salt and butter size, of an 
egg. Bake about 30 minutes. Serve with whipped cream, 
sweetened and flavored. Mrs. C. A. Burton. 

AUNT HELEN'S SUET PUDDING. 

One cup of suet chopped fine, a pinch of salt, 1 cup of New 
Orleans molasses, l / 2 teaspoon soda in molasses, 1 cup milk, 3 
cups flour (no more), 2 cups raisins, chopped. Boil in mold 
3 hours. Sauce : 1 cup butter, 2 cups granulated sugar 
(creamed), 2 eggs beaten stiff. Mix eggs and creamed butter 
and sugar and put into a double boiler. Stir occasionally till 
it foams. Just before serving add brandy, vanilla and nutmeg, 
6 tablespoons of boiling water. In winter you can keep this 
pudding in the mold any length of time. Lucia C. Beebe. 

89 



DELICIOUS PLUM PUDDING. 

One cupful beef suet chopped fine and smooth, 1 cupful fine 
cracker crumbs, 1 cupful sifted bread crumbs, 1 cupful raisins, 
1 cupful currants, 1 cupful almonds chopped coarse, 1 cupful 
candied or preserved cherries, 1 cupful candied orange, lemon 
and citron mixed, 1 cupful flour with 1 teaspoonful baking 
powder, 1 cupful molasses, 1 cupful grape juice, 1 cupful sugar, 
1 cupful apples, chopped, 4 eggs, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful grated nutmeg. Soak raisins, cur- 
rants and almonds in hot water. Rub skins off almonds and 
chop. Dry raisins and currants on back of stove. Shave 
orange peel, lemon peel and citron fine (do not chop). Mix 
fruit, nuts and candied cherries with flour. Set aside. Chop 
suet fine, add cracker crumbs, bread crumbs and molasses, 
sugar, apples, grape juice, spices, and well-beaten eggs. 
Pour into a well-buttered mold and boil five hours. After 
boiling remove lid of mold and dry well on back of stove 
or in a slow oven before putting away for Christmas day. 
Steam for at least 1 hour when ready to serve and pour over 
it 1 cupful of rum and a little granulated sugar and light it up. 
Do not forget the holly for center. Serve with foaming sauce. 

Mrs. N. E. Johnson. 

RICE SOUFFLE. 

Wash y 2 cup rice and let cook for about 3 hours in double 
boiler with a quart of milk and 1 teaspoon salt, and when cold 
whip 1 pint of cream and stir all together. Put in a mold and 
let get cold. Serve with hot raspberry or any other red fruit 
sauce. Mrs. Geo. E. Watson. 

CARAMEL APPLES. 

Six nice red apples. Take out core and fill with light brown 
sugar; also spread sugar over them. One teacup of water. 
Bake until done. Elinor Ericksen. 

MARSHMALLOW CREAMS. 

This quick dessert is both dainty and delicious, but must be 
prepared while the substantial part of the meal is being eaten, 
and served at once. Provide 2 dozen good marshmallows and 
make 1 dozen sandwiches of them by placing y 2 teaspoonful of 
some jam (strawberry preferable) between two marshmal- 

90 



lows. Place these in a baking pan and set in a very hot oven a 
moment until they puff. Take out, put 2 of the sandwiches on 
a small plate, for one service, covering with, a tablespoonful of 
whipped cream and a bit of jam on top. Ida S. Downs. 

Figs stuffed with English walnuts or pecan meats are de- 
licious. Ida S. Downs. 

ROLLED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Make a rich baking powder biscuit dough, roll it out in a 
sheet less than y 2 an inch thick (as thin as it can be handled 
well). Cover thickly with chopped apples and roll up as com- 
pactly as possible. Now cut this roll into sections, nearly 2 
inches thick, placing these in a granite dripping pan. Mix 1 
dessertspoonful of flour through 1 cupful of sugar, add a little 
more than one cupful of cold water, and cook 10 minutes. 
Pour this over the dumplings (ladle it over them with a spoon), 
grate a little nutmeg over them or sprinkle them with allspice, 
and bake to a good biscuit brown. Serve with cream, plenty of 
it, and sugar, or with hard sauce. The Greening apple is to be 
relied upon. Ida S. Downs. 

SHERRY WINE JELLY. 
One-half package gelatine, y 2 cup cold water, y 2 cup boiling 
water, 1 cup sugar, % cup lemon juice, 1 cup sherry wine, 1^2 
tablespoonfuls brandy. Soak gelatine in cold water 10 min- 
utes. Pour on boiling water and stir. Add sugar, lemon 
juice, wine and brandy. Stir until sugar is dissolved. Strain 
into jelly mold and cool. Serve alone or with whipped cream, 
or rich custard. Ida S. Downs. 



PUDDING SAUCES, 

What's the Pudding without the Sauce? 

WHIPPED CREAM SAUCE. 

One cup cream, 1 teaspoon ful lemon or vanilla, y 2 cup pow- 
dered sugar, white of 1 egg. Mix the cream, vanilla and sugar 
and whip it without skimming off the froth. Add the beaten 
white of the egg and beat all together. Serve it on any pudding 
usually eaten with sugar and cream. 

91 



FOAMY SAUCE. 

One-half cup of butter, 1 cup powdered sugar, 1 teaspoonful 
vanilla, 2 tablespoonfuls wine or fruit juice, % cup boiling 
water, white of 1 egg beaten to a foam. Cream the butter, add 
the sugar, vanilla and wine. Just before serving add the boil- 
ing water, stir well, then add the egg, and beat till foamy. 

CREAMY SAUCE FOR CHRISTMAS PUDDING. 

One-half cup butter, 1 cup powdered sugar, % CU P cream, 4 
tablespoons sherry wine. Beat the butter to a cream, add sugar 
slowly, beating all the time. When smooth and light add the 
wine gradually, then the cream, a little at a time. When well 
beaten place in double boiler and stir over fire until the sauce 
is smooth and creamy. Mrs. R. W. Murison. 

SAUCE FOR STEAMED FRUIT PUDDINGS. 

One-half cup of butter, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 egg, cream 
these together. Put in a dish and pour over a little hot water, 
about a tablespoonful. Flavor with one teaspoonful lemon ex- 
tract. Place over a dish of hot water and let it steam. 

Mrs. Lewis. 

HARD SAUCE (FOR HOT PUDDINGS). 

One-fourth cup butter, y 2 cup powdered sugar, y 2 teaspoon- 
ful lemon or vanilla or a little nutmeg. Rub the butter to a 
cream in a warm bowl. Add the sugar gradually, then the 
flavoring. 

WINE SAUCE. 

One cup boiling water, 1 tablespoonful cornstarch, % cup of 
butter, 1 cup powdered sugar, 1 egg, 1 saltspoon grated nut- 
meg, y 2 cup wine. Wet the cornstarch in cold water and stir 
into the boiling water. Boil 10 minutes. Rub the butter to a 
cream, add the sugar gradually, then the egg, well-beaten, and 
nutmeg. When the cornstarch has cooked 10 minutes. add the 
wine and pour the whole into the butter, sugar and egg, stir- 
ring until well mixed. Half a cup of jelly melted in % of a cup 
of boiling water and poured into a butter and sugar mixture 
makes a pleasing variety. 

92 



CARAMEL SAUCE. 

Put ]/ 2 a cup of sugar in an omelet pan and stir over the fire 
until melted and a light brown color. Add J/£ cup of boiling 
water and simmer 10 minutes. 

FOAMING SAUCE. 

Two cupfuls sugar, 1 teaspoon ful flour, 3 tablespoon fuls but- 
ter, 2 eggs, 1 cupful water, 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Cream sugar, 
flour and butter well and add beaten yolks. Place bowl in a pan 
of boiling water and gradually add 1 cupful water. Stir well. 
When ready to serve add 1 teaspoonful vanilla and beaten 
whites on top. When serving mix whites with rest of sauce. 

Mrs. N. E. Johnson. 

SAMBA YON SAUCE. 

Two yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful cornstarch, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls sugar, 1 tablespoonful rum, 1 cupful milk, 1 cupful cream. 
Mix cornstarch with cold milk, add sugar and beaten yolks. 
Cook until it thickens. Add cream, remove from fire. Add 
rum, and serve. Mrs. N. E. Johnson. 



CAKE, 

"If you would have delicious cake, 

The greatest care, friend, you must take; 

Both how you mix and how you bake." 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

Two cups pulverized sugar, Y\ cup butter, 1 cup milk, 1 cup 
hickory nut meats, whites of 4 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, flour to make rather stiff. Flavor with vanilla. Put 
it together with boiled frosting. 

LEMON FILLING FOR CAKE. 

One cup pulverized sugar, 1 egg, mixed well together ; juice 
and rind of 1 lemon ; 1 cup boiling water. Cook in double 
boiler and thicken with 1 large tablespoonful cornstarch, 

93 



CUP CAKES. 

One cup of sugar, y 2 cup of butter, 2 eggs, 1 cup sweet milk. 
2 cups flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 teaspoonful 
vanilla or lemon extract. Stir sugar and butter to a cream, add 
beaten eggs, then the milk, and flour and baking powder sifted 
together. Add flavoring. Bake in hot buttered mufhn rings in 
hot oven. 

ICING FOR CAKES. 

One cup sugar and 3 large spoonfuls cold water. Boil until 
it hardens when dropped in cold water. Add beaten white of 

I egg and flavor with lemon or vanilla. Beat until it begins 
to stiffen. Mrs. E. H. Reed. 

SCRIPTURE CAKE. 

Four and one-half cups of I Kings 4:22, \y 2 cups Judges 
5:25 (last clause), 2 cups Jeremiah 6:20 (sugar), 2 cups I 
Samuel 30:12 (raisins), 2 cups Naham 3:12, 1 cup Numbers 
17:8, 2 tablespoonfuls of I Samuel 14:25. Season to taste of 

II Chronicles 9:9, 6 of Jeremiah 17:11, a pinch of Leviticus 
2:13, y 2 cup of Judges 4:19 (last clause), 2 teaspoonfuls of 
Amos 4:5 (baking powder). Follow Solomon's prescription 
for making a good boy, Proverbs 23:14, and you will have a 
good cake. 

LEBKUCHEN. 

Two quarts molasses, 1 quart cream, 2 pounds brown sugar, 
y 2 pound citron, y 2 pound lemon peel, y 2 pound almonds or 
hickory nuts, 2 tablespoons soda, grated lemon peel of 2 lemons, 
cinnamon, nutmeg and allspice to taste. Let molasses, sugar and 
butter melt together (not boil). Cool and add cream. Add 
flour, but not too much. Mold out and bake. May let batter 
stand over night. Mrs. August Heuer, Jr. 

LAYER CAKE. 

Two cups sugar — 1 powdered and 1 granulated, y 2 cup but- 
ter ; mix these with hand ; ^ cup cold water, whites of 6 eggs, 
beaten stiff. Add gradually 3 cups flour. Beat all well, then 
add 3 level teaspoons of baking powder placed in sifter with 1 

94 



tablespoon of flour. Sift this in and beat the cake only to mix 
the powder through. Do not beat hard after adding the baking 
powder. Mrs. Neisbrod, Cincinnati, Ohio. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Three eggs, 1 cup sugar, 4 tablespoons boiling water, y± cup 
of flour, vanilla flavoring, 1 teaspoon baking powder. Bake in 
jelly tins. Whipped cream filling. Mrs. J. B. Pike. 

BLACK CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cup butter, 2 cups pulverized sugar, 2j4 cups (scant) 
flour, 1 cup milk, 5 eggs beaten separately, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, 1 cake Baker's vanilla chocolate grated and put in 
just before the flour. Filling: j4 cake Baker's vanilla choco- 
late, 1 cup sugar, 4 tablespoons milk. Put in double boiler. 
When hot add 1 well-beaten tgg and let boil 20 minutes. When 
cool add 1 cocoanut, grated. 

Mrs. Robertson, Buffalo, New York. 

TUTTI FRUTTI CAKE. 

Bake white cake in three layers. Cook as a custard 1 cup 
thin cream, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful cornstarch, mixed 
with milk, a pinch of salt, 2 tablespoonfuls granulated sugar. 
When cold add 1 teaspoonful vanilla, y cupful nut meats, y 2 
cupful mixed crystallized fruit. Spread between cake layers. 

COCOA CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 3 eggs (whites beaten sep- 
arately), 6 tablespoons Baker's Cocoa, y. CU P milk, 1 tablespoon 
vanilla, 2 teaspoons baking powder, \y 2 cups bread flour; or, 
2 cups pastry flour ; a pinch of salt. Add whites of eggs last, 
well beaten. Mrs. Williams, Waukegan, III. 

POTATO CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, y CU P S butter, 5 eggs, 1 cake of sweet 
chocolate (grated), y pound chopped almonds (blanched), 1 
cup of boiled potatoes (well mashed), 2 cups of flour, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon each of mace and cinnamon. 
Bake in a loaf. Mrs. Voightmann. 

95 



HAZEL NUT TORTE. 

Yolks of 6 eggs, stirred light, with 6 tablespoons of pow- 
dered sugar, 6 tablespoons grated hazel nuts, 2 teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. Beat the whites of eggs to froth and beat 
in batter. Bake in layers. Cream for Same: 1 pint rich 
cream, whipped, and 5 sticks sweet chocolate, 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. Lillian L. Bins. 

HASTY APPLE COFFEE CAKE. 

One-half cup granulated sugar, % cup butter, 2 eggs, a gen- 
erous cup of sweet milk, 2]/ 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, flavor with lemon. This will make two oblong cakes 
or three the size of ordinary layer cakes. Cover evenly with 
sliced apples (or peaches when in season). Sprinkle with 
sugar and bits of butter ; cinnamon and nuts, chopped, may be 
added. Mrs. Voightmann. 

MOCHA CAKE. 

One cup sugar, 2 eggs separated and beaten well, 1 cup flour, 
1 teaspoon baking powder in the flour. After all beaten, add 
y 2 cup boiling milk with 1 teaspoonful butter in it. A little 
vanilla. Bake in 2 layers. Filling : 1 cup powdered sugar, ^4 
cup butter beaten together, 2 tablespoonfuls strong coffee, 2 
level teaspoons of cocoa, a little vanilla. Spread between lay- 
ers and on top. Mrs. George Brown, 18 Francis St. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Twelve eggs beaten separately, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 
1 cup molasses, 3 cups flour (unsifted), 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, 2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon, 2 teaspoonfuls allspice, 1 tea- 
spoonful cloves, 2 nutmegs ground, 3 pounds currants and 2 
pounds raisins (prepare and dry day before making), % pound 
citron, % pound orange peel, small piece of candied pineapple, 
a few candied cherries, all sliced very fine ; Y\ pound chopped 
figs. Ten cents' worth each almonds and walnut meats, also a 
few hickory nuts if desired. Wine glass of either rum or 
brandy. In mixing take a little of the 3 cups of flour and 
mix with fruits. Mix thoroughly and add whites of eggs last. 
Steam 5 hours, then dry in oven. Will make four quarts. 

Mrs. G. W. Powell. 

96 



PINK MARBLED CAKE. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 3 cups flour, 
y 2 cup pink sugar, whites of 5 eggs, 2 teaspoons baking pow- 
der. Take a part of the white batter and add y 2 cup pink sugar. 
Pour a layer of the white batter into the baking pan, then drop 
the pink batter with a spoon in spots and spread the remainder 
of the white batter over it. Flavor with lemon. Marbled 
Chocolate Cake can be made by the above recipe by adding 5 
tablespoons grated chocolate. Moisten with milk and flavor 
with vanilla to a cup of white batter instead of pink sugar. 

Mrs. Geo. E. Watson. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, Zy 2 cups 
flour, 4 eggs, 2 level teaspoons cream tartar and 1 of soda. 
Bake in layers. This quantity is for 4 layers. Filling : White 
of one egg beaten stiff, 1 cup powdered sugar, juice of 1 
orange and grated rind of 2. 

WALNUT CAKE. 

One cup sugar, ]/ 2 cup butter, ]/ 2 cup sweet milk, 2 eggs, 2 
teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, 1 teaspoonful soda, \y 2 cups 
flour or 2 cups pastry flour (scant), 1 pound English walnuts. 
Save 16 halves, chop the rest of the nuts fine and sprinkle with 
a little flour ; stir into cake and bake. Frost with white frost- 
ing and put halves of nuts on top. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE. 

Cream together 1 cup sugar and half cup butter, add a little 
salt, y 2 teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, a little nutmeg, 
1 cup raisins. Dissolve 1 teaspoon soda in a little warm water 
and stir into it 1 cup o£ unsweetened apple sauce. Let this 
foam over the ingredients in the mixing bowl. Beat thoroughly 
and add 2 cups flour. Bake in a loaf about 1 hour. 

Miss Bailey, Maiden, Mass. 

ENGLISH FRUIT CAKE. 
(A delicious wedding cake.) 
Three pounds each of dates, currants and raisins, 1 pound 
citron, 1 pound candied cherries, 1 pound blanched almonds, 3 

97 



pounds of eggs (9 eggs make 1 pound), Zy 2 pounds flour, 2% 
pounds butter, 1 }/ 2 pounds brown sugar, 1 cup molasses, 2 nut- 
megs, 1 heaping tablespoonful soda, 1 heaping tablespoonful 
cinnamon. Bake in moderate oven 5 hours. Half the quan- 
tity will make three good-sized loaves. 

Miss Bailey, Maiden, Mass. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One and one-half squares chocolate, 1-3 cup sugar, 34 CU P 
milk, y 2 teaspoon vanilla, yolk of 1 egg beaten. Put all to- 
gether in bowl and dissolve over tea kettle. Stir until smooth. 
One-fourth cup butter, y 2 cup sugar, %. cup milk, 1 egg, y 2 
teaspoon saleratus, 1 cup flour. Then add chocolate mixture 
and a little more flour. Mix well together and bake in a slow 
oven. 

HARRISON CAKE. 

One cup butter, 1 cup light brown sugar, 3 eggs, y 2 cup 
molasses, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup milk, 4 cups of flour, nutmeg, 
1 cup raisins and y 2 cup currants. 

NUT CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, 2 cups flour, whites of 4 eggs, )/ 2 cup 
sugar, % CU P water, 1 cup nut kernels, 1 teaspoon baking pow- 
der. Beat butter and sugar to cream. Then add water and 
flour. Stir until smooth. Add half well-beaten eggs. Then 
nuts. Then the remainder of whites and baking powder. Pour 
into square flat tins lined with buttered paper to the depth of 
3 inches. Bake in moderate oven 45 minutes. 

Mrs. Homer Glidden. 

PORK CAKE. 

Chop fine 1 cup of pork, add 1 cup hot water, 1 cup brown 
sugar, 1 cup molasses, Ay 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoonful soda dis- 
solved in a little water, 1 teaspoonful each of cloves, nutmeg 
and cinnamon, y 2 pound raisins, currants, and piece citron. 
Bake \y 2 hours. This makes 2 loaves. 

Miss Bailey, Maiden, Mass. 

9S 



MOTHER'S POUND CAKE. 

Three eggs, l J / 2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 2y cups flour, 
scant }A cup milk, heaping teaspoon baking powder. Flavor 
with nutmeg. Beat butter, sugar and eggs slightly. Add other 
ingredients and mix lightly. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. Geo. E. Watson. 

MARION CAKE. 

Two-thirds of a cup of butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, y cup 
milk, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon cream tartar in flour, y 2 teaspoon 
soda dissolved in a little water. Flavor with vanilla. Chop 
walnuts, put on top of cake, and then bake. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, 2 cups flour, y 2 cup cold water, yolks 5 
eggs, whites 3, the juice and grated rind of one orange, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder. Beat the yolks very light, then add 
sugar and water. After beating thoroughly then add other 
ingredients. Stir in lightly beaten whites lastly. Bake in layer 
tins and make a cream filling flavored with grated rind of an 
orange. Mrs. Geo. E. Watson. 

TIPSY CAKE. 

One sponge cake (baker's sponge cake), 1 glass currant jelly, 
1 glass sherry wine, l / 2 pint whipping cream, 1 pint custard. 
Split sponge cake and pour wine over it until all the wine is 
absorbed. Spread the jelly between the layers. Whip the 
cream until stiff, sweeten and flavor with vanilla, and spread 
on top of cake. Serve with custard. 

Custard — Make a soft custard of 1 pint milk and the yolks 
of three eggs. Flavor with vanilla and serve very cold. 

Mrs. D. O. Macquarrie. 

DROP CAKE. 

Two eggs,.l cup sugar, 2 tablespoons flour, 2 teaspoons bak- 
ing powder. Beat all together, then add 1 cup dates seeded, 1 
cup walnuts broken in half. Bake about 20 minutes or until 
it drops. Mrs. Weber. 

99 



FRENCH CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Make a caramel of 2 squares of chocolate, 1 cup of sugar, 
y 2 cup of sweet milk and yolk of 1 egg. Boil until it thickens, 
then set away to cool. Cream 1 cup sugar with 2/3 cups but- 
ter, add 2 well-beaten eggs, then 1 cup of milk, 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. Add the cooled chocolate, and lastly 2 cups of flour 
with 2 teaspoons baking powder. Bake in 3 layers. Put to- 
gether with any good white frosting. 

POUND CAKE. 

Yolks of 10 eggs, whites of two (well beaten), 1 pound of 
butter, 1 pound of sugar, 1 pound flour, \y 2 teaspoonfuls bak- 
ing powder. Add flour and whites of eggs last. 

Mrs. E. J. Bowes. 

CARAMEL CAKE. 

One-half cake Baker's chocolate melted with y 2 cup milk, 
yolk of 1 egg, 1 cup sugar. Cook until smooth. Let this cool 
while you mix 1 cup sugar, y 2 cup butter, 2 eggs, y 2 cup milk, 

2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Flavor with vanilla. 
Add the chocolate and bake in layers. 

Inside Filling — Whites of 2 eggs, same amount of water. 
Beat to a froth. Add 2 pounds confectioner's sugar till very- 
thick. Spread y 2 inch thick. 

Outside Coating — One-half cake chocolate, 1 cup sugar, y 2 
cup milk. Flavor with vanilla and boil until creamy and pour 
over cake. Mrs. Slay ton. 

MARSHMALLOW CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, \y 2 cups granulated sugar, 1 cup milk, 

3 cups flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder, whites of 6 eggs, 1 
teaspoon vanilla flavoring. Filling: Dissolve 5 tablespoons 
gum arabic in a gill of cold water; then stir in 3^ cup pow- 
dered sugar and boil all together without stirring until a little 
dropped in cold water can be rolled into a soft ball between the 
fingers. Have ready beaten the white of an egg. Strain the 
syrup into it, beating all the time. Add 1 teaspoon vanilla, 
also. When well blended spread on cake. Mrs. Horn. 

too 



BLUEBERRY CAKE. 

One tablespoon butter, 2/3 cup sugar, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, 2 cups blueberries, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 2 eggs. 
Mix as for any cake, adding the blueberries last, floured well. 

JAM CAKE. 

Two cups dark brown sugar, 2/3 cup butter, y 2 cup sour 
cream or milk, y> cup any kind milk, 2 cups flour, 3 eggs, }£ 
teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 even teaspoon soda. 
Bake in layers and put together with icing. 

Mrs. Harriet Morse. 

POTATO CAKE. 

Beat together 2 cups of granulated sugar and ^4 CU P butter 
to a cream, then add 5 eggs beaten light and J4 teaspoon salt, 
l / 2 cup milk, 1 cake sweet chocolate (grated), y 2 pound 
blanched almonds, 1 cup boiled grated potatoes, 2y 2 cups 
flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder and 1 teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon, allspice and cloves. Bake in deep pan in moderate oven. 

Lilliam L. Bins. 

BANANA CAKE. 

Three eggs, not quite j/ 2 cup of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of but- 
ter, 1 tablespoonful of milk and 2 of boiling water, 1 teaspoon- 
ful soda and 2 of cream of tartar. One cup of flour sifted five 
times. Bake in layers. Filling: Take a cup of sugar and }i 
of a cup of water. Boil until it "hairs." Pour on to the beaten 
whites of two eggs. Add three bananas well crushed. Beat 
well and spread between layers, top and sides. 

Mrs. J. S. Johns, Owen Sound, Canada. 

BLUEBERRY CAKE. 

One and a half cups of flour, 1 cup sugar, y 2 cup milk, 1/3 
cup of butter, 2 eggs, 1 pint blueberries, y 2 teaspoonful nutmeg 
and cinnamon, \y 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Flour berries 
before putting into cake. Mrs. A. B. Clayton. 

The following recipe of wedding cake is the one used for 
many years by the confectioner to Queen Victoria. It was 
made for all the marriages in the royal family and sent often 

101 



as a gift from Victoria to other royal households. Some time 
before her death she pensioned this maker of cakes. The room 
in which the cake is kept has an even temperature of 60 de- 
grees. Twice a year the cake is tested and remoistened with 
brandy. This is quite a ceremony and often attended by mem- 
bers of the royal family. The frosting and ornamentation is 
not put on till the cake is ordered. The last cake Queen Vic- 
toria ordered was seven feet high. 

THE QUEEN'S WEDDING CAKE. 

Twelve eggs, \y 2 pounds of white sugar, 1 pound of butter, 
1 cup of brown sugar, 1 pound of flour, 1 pound of almonds, 2 
pounds of citron, 4 pounds of raisins, 2 pounds of currants, 1 
nutmeg, 2 spoonfuls of cloves, 2 spoonfuls of cinnamon, 1 quart 
of brandy, )/ 2 cup of boiled milk. The almoners must be 
blanched and cut in strips ; the raisins seeded ; the citron 
sliced; the currants washed and dried the day previous to the 
mixing. The flour, sugar and almonds are dried and slightly 
browned in a slow oven ; the eggs must be separated and 
beaten stiff; the butter and sugar must be beaten till creamy, 
then add flour and eggs alternately, then milk and spices — then 
with a wooden spatular beat in the fruit, add 1 pint of brandy, 
and cook four hours in. an evenly heated oven. The pan 
should be raised from the bottom of oven. After the cake is 
baked and cold turn over it the remaining pint of brandy. 
Wrap in parafflne paper and box. Once a year the cake should 
be removed from box and another pint of brandy poured over 
it. It will keep and grow better for several years. 

Mrs. Guy Magee. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Two eggs, 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of flour (heaping), y 2 cup 
of boiling milk, y 2 teaspoonful of soda, 1 teaspoonful cream of 
tartar, y 2 teaspoonful of vanilla, a pinch of salt. Drop the 
yolks of eggs in a bowl without beating, stir in the sugar, a little 
at a time, until all is fine and creamy. Then pour on the boil- 
ing milk, then the flour with the soda and cream of tartar; 
lastly fold in the whites very lightly. Bake in a rather quick 
oven. Miss Grace Brown, Portsmouth, N. H. 

102 



DAYTON CAKE. 

One cup of butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 cups of flour, 5 eggs, y 2 
cup cream, y 2 teasponful dry soda, 1 teaspoonful cream of 
tartar. Mix butter and sugar, add cream and cream of tartar, 
then the eggs alternately with the flour ; y 2 teaspoonful of 
vanilla ; add soda the last thing. 

Miss Grace Brown, Portsmouth, N. H. 



POUND CAKE. 

One pound pulverized sugar, ^ pound butter, 1 pound flour, 
9 eggs (whites and yolks beaten separately), % teaspoon soda 
dissolved in very little milk. Cream the butter and sugar with 
the hands, then add yolks, then the flour, and lastly the whites 
of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 

Mrs. Dan Cowles, Glover sville, N. Y. 

SOUR CREAM NUT CAKE. 

Two eggs, 1 cup granulated sugar, y 2 cup rich sour cream, 
y 2 teaspoon soda, 1 neaping cup sifted flour. Bake in two lay- 
ers. Filling for Nut Cake : Boil 1 cup sugar in 2 tablespoons 
of water until it hairs. Add beaten whites of 2 eggs. When 
cool flavor with extract of lemon. • Spread on cake and cover 
with chopped hickory nuts or English walnuts. 

Mrs. Genevieve Bookwalter. 



SOFT GINGER CAKE. 

One-half cup of sugar, l / 2 cup of butter, 2 cups of flour, 1 
cup of molasses, 2 eggs, y 2 cup raisins, l / 2 teaspoon of baking 
soda, 1 cup of boiling water, 1 teaspoon of ginger, a little 
ground cloves. Stir water in cake slowly, the last thing. Bake 
in slow oven. Mrs. H. S. Harris. 



MAPLE SUGAR FROSTING. 

One cup maple sugar, 5 tablespoonfuls cold water. Boil 
until it threads. Pour over the beaten white of 1 egg, beat 
a few minutes. 

103 



CHOCOLATE FILLING. 

One package of chocolate grated, \y 2 cups of milk and 
water mixed, y 2 cup of powdered sugar. Boil 5 minutes in a 
double boiler. Stir constantly. Remove from fire, add 1 table- 
spoonful of vanilla. Mrs. A. G. Drake. 

SEED CAKE. 

Ten eggs, 10 ounces of butter, 1 pound blanched almonds, 
y 2 pound citron peel, y 2 pound orange, y 2 pound lemon, 1 
pound coffee sugar, 1 pound flour, 8 drops oil of cinnamon, 10 
drops of lemon. Beat the whites and yolks separate and the 
butter and sugar together. Beat it well before putting in the 
tin. Mrs. J. S. Johns, Canada. 

WILBUR CAKE. 

One cup coffee sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 cups flour, 1 cup 
currants, 1 cup raisins, l / 2 cup molasses, 4 tablespoons butter, 
1 egg, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, a little cloves, 1 scant teaspoon 
soda. Use boiled icing or the chocolate icing by the following 
rule: }i cup cocoa, y> cup milk, \y 2 cup sugar, yolk of 1 egg. 
Boil until a jelly. Emma D. Rathbun. 

CAKE. 

Two eggs beaten separately, 1 cup of powdered sugar, 2 
even cups of flour, 2 heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
lf/2 cups of milk. Bake in quick, hot oven in layers. Any 
filling can be used. 

MOCHA TART. 

One coffee cup of granulated sugar, 5 eggs, beat yolks and 
sugar till very light, \y 2 tablespoonfuls Mocha extract, 1 
coffee cup well-sifted flour with 1 teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der. Beat whites of eggs to a froth and add last. Put in three 
tins and bake from 5 to 8 minutes in a quick oven. 

Filling — y 2 pint cream whipped stiff, sugar to taste, \y 2 
tablespoonfuls Mocha extract. 

Icing — One cup confectioners' sugar, \y 2 tablespoonfuls 
Mocha extract. Stir well and add a little water at a time till 
right to smear. Mrs. Macquarrie. 

104 



DROP CAKE. 

Beat together 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 2 teaspoons baking pow- 
der, 2 tablespoons flour, 1 cup dates and 1 cup walnuts chopped 
together. Bake in slow oven until cake drops. Cut in strips 
when nearly cold. This is very fine. Lilian L. Binz. 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE. 

Part i — One cup brown sugar, 1 cup grated chocolate, ]/2 
cup milk. Set on stove in double boiler until all is dissolved, 
but do not boil. When cold stir into part second. 

Part 2 — One cup brown sugar, small ]A cup butter, yolk of 3 
eggs, y 2 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda sifted into 
flour. Bake in layers and frost with cream frosting. 

Mrs. Seymour Jones. 

ITALIAN CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two cups granulated sugar, 2/3 cup of butter, j4 cake 
Baker's chocolate grated, 1 cup cold coffee (liquid), 2 heap- 
ing cups browned flour, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, whites 
of 5 eggs. Rub butter and sugar together, add grated choco- 
late, coffee, flour with baking powder, and last the whites of 
the eggs well beaten. Bake in loaf or two layers and use white 
or chocolate icing. The flour must be sifted after it is browned 
and before measuring. Mrs. N. B. Lewis. 

HASH CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, 1 of sugar, whites of 4 eggs, }4 cup 
milk, y 2 teaspoonful soda, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, 1^ 
cups flour. Frosting : One cup raisins chopped, 1 cup hickory 
nut meats, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup water. Boil until it strings, then 
spread over the cake. Mrs. E. Bissell, Kenosha, Wis. 

LAYER CAKE. 

One-half cup butter (generous measure), 1% cups sugar, 
Y\ cup milk, 6 eggs (whites only), 3 cups flour after sifting, 
2 rounding teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 level teaspoonful 
of salt, 1 teaspoonful of flavoring. Cream butter and sugar 

105 



until light. Then add y 2 cup of flour. Next put in milk a 
little at a time. Water will do, if you have not milk. Add 2 
cups of flour. Next eggs, and lastly y> cup of flour which is 
left with baking powder in it. Always use winter wheat flour. 

Miss Jennie Drake. 

KENOSHA SPONGE CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, 3 eggs, y 2 cup of boiling water, \y 2 cups 
of flour, 1 heaping teaspoonful baking powder, pinch of salt. 
Beat yolks of eggs and sugar to a cream, add the other ingredi- 
ents, and lastly fold in the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Bake slowly at first. Mrs. Emma Bissell. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound butter, 1 pound sugar, 1 pound flour, y 2 cup mo- 
lasses, y 2 cup brandy, 8 eggs, y 2 teaspoon soda dissolved in 
little hot water, 1 pound citron shaved fine, 2 pounds currants, 
3 pounds raisins, 1 tablespoon each of cinnamon, cloves, mace 
and nutmeg. Add the fruit well dried and floured. Take out 
some of the dough minus the fruit to cover on top so the fruit 
will not burn. Mrs. Whittock, Broadalbin, N. Y. 

SOFT GINGER CAKE. 

One cup of molasses into which beat y 2 teaspoon of baking 
soda, 1 cup of New Orleans molasses, 2/3 cup of butter. Beat 
the above ingredients together. Add 2 well-beaten eggs, 1 
tablespoon of ginger, 1 cup of sour cream into which y 2 tea- 
spoon of soda has been added, 3 cups of flour — not a bit more. 

L. C. Beebe. 

JAM CAKE. 

Four eggs, 2 cups sugar, 4 cups flour, 1 cup of cream, \y 2 
cups of butter, 1 cup jam, \y 2 cups chopped nuts, 1 pound of 
raisins, y 2 pound citron (cut fine), 1 pound currants, 1 tea- 
spoonful each of nutmeg, cinnamon and allspice, 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, 1 teaspoonful salt, 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla. 
Baked in moderate oven three hours. Miss Drake. 

106 



IMPERIAL CAKE, 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 4 eggs, 3 J / 2 cups 
flour, 1 cup of dates, 1 cup walnuts, 1 cup of citron (chopped), 
3 teaspoonfuls baking powder or 1 of soda and 2 of cream of 
tartar, 1 tablespoonful of vanilla, 8 drops of oil of cinna- 
mon. Bake in angel cake tin in a moderate oven for 1^4 or 2 
hours. Half of this makes a large cake. 

Mrs. J. S. Johns, Owen Sound, Canada. 

ICE WATER SPONGE CAKE. 

One cup sugar, 3 eggs, y 2 cup ice water, \y 2 cups of flour, 
Xy» teaspoonfuls baking powder. Beat eggs and sugar to- 
gether with 1 tablespoon ice water for 3 or 4 minutes, then 
add other ingredients, whites beaten. Then beat all 3 or 4 
minutes longer. Mrs. E. J. Bowes, Jr. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two sections of chocolate in the bottom of a bowl ; add 1 
cup boiling water, 1 egg, x / 2 cup butter melted, y 2 cup sour 
milk with 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup flour, 1 cup sugar. Bake 
in 2 shallow square tins. 

FROSTING. 

One pound confectioners' sugar and y 2 cup thick cream 
stirred to a paste and flavor with vanilla. When cake is cold 
spread thick and when this paste' is set spread with 2 sections 
chocolate melted with small pieces of butter. This needs to 
be thin. Mrs. Peters, Buffalo, N. Y. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Twelve eggs ; the weight of 1 1 eggs in sugar and 8 in flour ; 
keep out 2 yolks. Flavor as you like. I use lemon. 

Miss Drake. 

FEATHER CAKE. 

Light brown sugar \y 2 cups, butter T / 2 cup, milk 1 cup, 
flour 2y cups, eggs (whites only) 6, baking powder 2 tea- 
spoons ; flavor to taste. Cream butter and sugar together, add 

107 



milk, then flour through the baking powder has been sifted, 
beating very thoroughly. Beat eggs very stiff and fold in 
lightly. Bake in 3 layers in quick oven. 

Mrs. R. W. Murison. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING AND FROSTING. 

Mix y± of a cup of flour with ]/ 2 cup of sugar (scant), add 
1 egg and beat thoroughly; then stir into 1 cup of scalded 
milk and cook 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. Set aside to 
become cool. Wash 1 cup of butter and beat into it 1 cupful 
powdered sugar, add to the first mixture with 1 teaspoonful 
of vanilla and \ l / 2 square of melted chocolate, spread when 
cool. Mrs. I. E. Frankhauser. 

PORCUPINE CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Seven yolks of eggs, 5 whites, % pound of sugar, % pound 
of almonds ground fine, 1 cake German sweet chocolate, 1 
teaspoonful of vanilla, grated rind of 1 lemon. Bake in 1 
solid cake. Beat yolks and sugar together, melt chocolate and 
add, then add almonds previously pulverized or ground very 
finely, add rind of lemon and vanilla ; lastly fold in whites of 
eggs which have been beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in a loaf 
45 minutes in a moderate oven. 

FROSTING. 

One cup sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls of cocoa, 1 teaspoonful of 
vanilla, hot water enough to make right consistency to spread 
on cake. After frosting, cut blanched almonds in strips and 
stick on top of cake to represent a porcupine. This cake may 
be sliced and eaten as pudding with whipped cream. 

Miss Jennie A. Drake. 

COLONIAL GINGER BREAD. 

Put together 1 cup Porto Rico molasses, J / 2 cup butter, ]/ 2 
cup sugar creamed together, 2 eggs, 1 cup thick sour milk, 
1 teaspoonful each of ginger and cinnamon, \ l /> teaspoonfuls 
soda sifted with 3 cups of flour; beat. Bake in loaf. Serve 
warm. Garnish with whipped cream. 

Anna Harrison. 

108 



SPICE CAKE. 

One even cupful sugar, \]/ 2 heaping tablespoonfuls butter, 
2 eggs beaten separately, y 2 cup molasses, 2 teaspoons cinna- 
mon, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 even cup sour milk, with 1 tea- 
spoonful soda, 1 cup seeded raisins, about 2 cups flour. 

Mrs. Hal D. Tracy. 

TIPSY SQUIRE. 

Saturate a thin sponge cake with sherry wine. Ornament 
the top thickly with split blanched almonds. Pour over it a 
rich custard made of 1 quart of milk, yolks of 6 eggs, whites 
of 2, 1 teacupful of sugar. Whip 1 pint of cream until thick. 
Put over the cake and custard. 

POTATO CARAMEL CAKE. 

Two-thirds cup of butter, 2 cups granulated sugar, 2 cups 
of flour, 1 cup mashed potato, y 2 cup of sweet milk, 4 eggs, 
2 teaspoon fuls baking powder, j4 CU P grated chocolate, 1 cup 
chopped English walnuts, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 1 of cloves, 
1 nutmeg. Cream butter and sugar, add eggs, then alternate 
flour and potato, add balance of ingredients. One-half of 
this makes a good loaf. Take whole quantity of nuts. 

Emma M. Loesch. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING. 

• Two cups granulated sugar, 8 tablespoons of water. Cook 
until strings, then beat this into the beaten whites of 2 eggs ; 
add a square or less of chocolate while beating. 

Emma M. Loesch. 



SMALL CAKES. 

HERMITS. 

Four eggs beaten, 3 cups brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup 
sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 2 teaspoons 
cloves, 2 teaspoons nutmeg, flour enough to make soft batter, 
y 2 package of seeded raisins. Mrs. E. J. Henry. 

109 



DELICIOUS DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup sour buttermilk, 2 eggs, 1 cup granulated sugar, 
3 tablespoons of lard, a little salt, a little nutmeg, enough flour 
to make soft dough. Fry and roll in powdered sugar. 

Mrs. Genevieve Bookzvalter. 

RECEIPT OF WHITE COOKIES. 

One-half cup of butter, 2 eggs, 1 cup of sweet milk, 1 tea- 
spoon of cream of tartar, )/ 2 teaspoon of soda. Stir into a 
soft dough and season with nutmeg. Mrs. N. A. Pennoyer. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup New Orleans molasses, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup shorten- 
ing butter and lard, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in the molasses, 
2 teaspoons ginger, a little salt. Boil, this mixture a few min- 
utes, or till it bubbles ; then add flour enough to roll out soft. 
Bake in slow oven. Lucia C. Beebe. 

OATMEAL MACAROONS. 

Two tablespoons butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 3 cups oatmeal, 
1 teaspoon baking powder, %. teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon almond 
flavoring. Moderate oven (10 minutes). Leave on tins 3 
minutes before trying to remove. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

One cup sugar, l / 2 cup mixed butter and lard, 1 egg, J A cup 
sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda sifted through the flour, flour enough 
to roll ; season with nutmeg ; put a split raisin on top of each 
cookie and sprinkle with sugar. Leave a space in the pan 
between each cookie. Lucia C. Beebe. 

GINGER FINGERS. 

One cup New Orleans molasses, J / 2 cup sugar, 1 cup shorten- 
ing butter and lard, scant y 2 cup boiling water, 3 cups flour, 
scant teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 tablespoon gin- 
ger, y 2 teaspoon cloves. Roll thin and cut with knife in 
strips 1 inch by 4. Leave space between fingers in pan and 
bake in slow oven. When taken from pan spread out on paper 
to cool ; then cover each one with boiled frosting. 

Miss Edith Thompson, New York. 

no 



FROSTING. 

One cup granulated sugar, 6 tablespoonfuls water; boil till 
it "hairs"; beat this into the beaten white of an egg; when 
ready to spread add lemon juice. If frosting is too hard add 
a very little water. Lucia C. Beebe. 

OATMEAL COOKIES. 

Two cups of oatmeal, 1 cup of flour, y 2 cup of butter, y 2 
cup of boiling water (scant), 1 teaspoon of soda, 1 small cup 
sugar, )/ 2 teaspoon salt. Dissolve soda in boiling water. Very 
good. Mrs. J. B. Pike. 

WALNUT PATTIES. 

Two eggs, y 2 pound sugar, (y each dark brown and white 
sugar), 5y> tablespoons flour, \y 2 cups walnut meats broken in 
pieces, y 2 teaspoon salt, 34 teaspoon baking powder. Drop in 
pan (buttered and floured) size of quarter. Set \y 2 inches 
apart and bake in moderate oven about 10 minutes. Let stand 
on pan when done for about 5 minutes. 

MARGUERITES (CAKE). 

Whites of 2 eggs beaten very stiff, y 2 pound pulverized 
sugar, y 2 pound chopped nuts. 1 teaspoonful flour. Drop in 
pan and bake very quickly. These are very nice on the Long 
Branch crackers. Spread on crackers, then put them in the 
oven to brown. Lillian L. Bins. 

FRUIT COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar, brown or white, 1 cup butter or y 2 of lard, 
3 eggs, 4 tablespoons of milk, 2 cups chopped raisins, 1 tea- 
spoon cinnamon, a little clove, a little nutmeg, 1 teaspoon soda, 
flour enough to make it stiff. Bake on bottom of tins turned 
bottom side up. Mrs. Charles J. Blair. 

FRIED CAKES. 

Two eggs beaten well, 1 cup sugar, 3 even tablespoons melted 
butter, 1 cup sour milk (buttermilk preferred), 4 cups flour, 
y 2 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt, 
a little nutmeg. Mix soft. Mrs. Charles J. Blair. 

in 



SOUR CREAM COOKIES. 

One and one-half cups sugar, almost 1 cup butter, creamed 
together ; 1 cup sour cream, y 2 nutmeg, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon 
baking powder, 1 teaspoon soda, flour enough to make a soft 
dough. Bake on bottoms of tins. Mrs. Laurence Stiles. 

OATMEAL MACAROONS. 

One rounded tablespoon butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, salt, 1 
teaspoon vanilla, 2 l / 2 cups rolled oatmeal, 1 teaspoon baking 
powder. Mix dry ingredients thoroughly, work in butter and 
flavoring. This recipe makes 3 dozen. 

A VERY DAINTY SWEDISH FRIED CAKE. 

Four eggs, 4 tablespoons sugar, 4 tablespoons of thick sweet 
cream; beat yolks of eggs and sugar till almost white, add 
cream and beat again ; then the beaten whites ; add flour to 
roll out very thin. Cut in narrow strips, make slit in center 
and draw one end through to tie a knot. Fry in hot lard a 
very light brown. Roll in powdered sugar while hot. 

Alma Soderberg. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES. 

One cup brown sugar, y 2 cup butter; measure, then melt; 
1 egg, y 2 cup sweet milk, y 2 teaspoonful soda dissolved in the 
milk, \y 2 cups well sifted flour, 2 tablespoonfuls chocolate 
melted, 24 CU P seeded raisins, 24 CU P chopped nuts. Drop from 
dessert spoon into buttered tins and bake. Mrs. Fred F. Cain. 

To bake cookies well invert a dripping pan, butter bottom 
and place cookies on it. 

FRIED CAKES. 

One cup sugar, 1 cup cream, 1 cup buttermilk, 2 eggs, flavor- 
ing, 1 teaspoon of soda, 2 teaspoons of cream of tartar, flour. 

Alma Soderberg. 

HERMIT COOKIES. 

Two eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup currants and 
raisins, y 2 teaspoonful cinnamon, y 2 teaspoonful cloves, y 2 tea- 
spoonful soda in a tablespoonful hot water, flour enough to 
roll out well. Christine Monson. 

112 



GINGER SNAPS. 

Pour 1 cupful of boiling water on ^4 CU P of butter and y 
cup lard ; add y 2 cup brown sugar and y 2 cup molasses in 
which has been dissolved 1 teaspoonful soda ; stir thoroughly, 
then add 3 cups pastry flour, 1 teaspoon ginger. Let stand 
over night in a cool place. 

PEANUT COOKIES. 
Three-quarters cup of peanuts, 1 cup pastry flour, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, % teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons butter, 
2 tablespoons milk, 1 tgg, y cup sugar. Cream butter and 
sugar together, then add peanuts, which have been finely 
chopped, then milk and dry ingredients. Mix well. Roll and 
cut out and garnish by putting half a peanut on each cookie. 
This makes 3 dozen small cookies. One quart peanuts in the 
shell will be enough. Bake only long enough to brown. A nice 
substitute for macaroons. Miss Bailey, Maiden, Mass. 

BANANA FRITTERS. 

Two eggs (beaten separately), 1 cup sour milk, 1 teaspoon 
soda, 2 cups flour, pinch of salt, 2 or 3 bananas or peaches 
sliced or apples chopped. Have lard hot and cook like dough- 
nuts. When cooked sprinkle powdered sugar over them. If 
used as dessert make a thick syrup to eat over them. 

GINGER SNAPS. 
One cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup butter, 3 cups flour, 
1 egg, 1 tablespoonful of ginger, 1 tablespoon of vinegar, 1 
teaspoon of soda ; put boiling water over soda ; add just enough 
more flour to roll out very thin. Miss Alma Soderberg. 

GRAHAM COOKIES. 
One cup thick sour cream, 1 teaspoonful soda stirred into 
cream to foam, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, little salt. 
Mix with Graham flour. Use white flour for rolling. Roll 
very thin and sprinkle with sugar. Mrs. C. C. Cobb. 

AUNT JANET'S COOKIES. 
Two and one-half cups brown sugar, 2 eggs, \y 2 tablespoons 
melted butter, 1 teaspoon soda, Graham flour to thicken. Flavor 
with caraway seeds {2y 2 teaspoons) or chopped walnuts or 
raisins. Miss Janet Vance. 

113 



CREAM COOKIES. 

Three eggs, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter and lard { l / 2 each), 
3 teaspoons baking powder, }i cup cream (never use milk), 
flour to handle. These cookies are delicious if chopped nuts 
are sprinkled on top. Mrs. E. J. Bowes, Jr. 

COOKIES. . 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup sour cream, 4 eggs 
beaten separately ; add part of cream to beaten yolks and 1 
level teaspoonful soda to the rest of the cream : 1 teaspoonful 
(large) baking powder. 1 saltspoonful salt, 1 grated nutmeg. 
Mix soft and roll out rather thick. Bake in quick oven. Can 
put raisin in center of each and sprinkle with sugar. 

Mrs. G. W. Powell. 



ICES AND ICE CREAM, 

"And like the snowfall on the river, 
A moment zvhite — then melts forever." 

— Burns. 

ICE CREAM. 

Scald 1 pint milk, beat yolks of 4 eggs and beat in thor- 
oughly with beater 1 scant cup granulated sugar and pinch of 
salt. Turn boiling milk over this and mix thoroughly : then 
put back in double boiler and stir constantly till it thickens. 
Strain immediately, and when cold add % pound candied 
cherries cut fine, a tablespoonful of brandy and small teaspoon- 
ful vanilla. Just before freezing add ]A pint cream, whipped. 

Mrs. W. A. Stiles' recipe, and very fine. 

MAPLE SYRUP ICE CREAM. 

Two cups maple syrup, yolks of 8 eggs, 1 quart cream. 

Anna Soderberg. 

PISTACHIO ICE CREAM. 

One quart cream, 1 pint milk. l r / 2 cups sugar, whites of 4 
eggs beaten stiff, 1 teaspoonful or more of pistachio extract, 

114 



1 cupful of almonds blanched and powdered fine. Cream 

should be partly frozen before nuts are added. 

Minnie Lewis Fix en. 

BISQUE. 

One pint cream, \ T / 2 dozen macaroons, 2-3 cup pulverized 
sugar. Whip cream stiff, roll macaroons and sugar together 
and stir in slowly. Pack in ice and salt 3 hours before serving. 

BURNT SUGAR ICE CREAM. 

Take ]/ 2 pound of sugar, brown half of it in a saucepan ; stir 
in sufficient water to bring to a liquid state ; add the other 
sugar, with 1 pint of milk and 4 eggs well beaten ; flavor 
strongly with lemon or vanilla, and freeze. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI ICE CREAM. 

Make a custard of 5 well beaten eggs, 1 quart of milk and 

2 cups of sugar : flavor. When cold add 1 pint rich cream. 
When half frozen add 1 small wine glass of sherry and y 2 
pound of candied cherries and pineapple cut in small pieces. 
Continue to freeze. I use as flavoring T / 2 teaspoonful lemon, 
y 2 teaspoonful orange and V 2 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Mrs. 0. H. Watson. 

FROZEN CREAM DE MENTHE. 

One quart water, % cup sugar : boil 20 minutes : when cold 
add V 2 cup creme de menthe syrup. Freeze, garnish with 
green creme de menthe cherries. Mrs. C. M. Smith. 

NUT ICE CREAM. 

Put y 2 cup granulated sugar in a saucepan over the fire until 
melted and a golden brown. Add y 2 cup boiling water and let 
it simmer 10 minutes. Scald 1 pint of thin cream in a double 
boiler until scalding hot. Add y 2 cup sugar, V% teaspoon salt 
and the caramel. Stir until sugar is melted : then set away to 
cool, stirring it quite often. When ready to freeze stir in 1 pint 
of whipped cream and 1 cup of pecans chopped fine. Prepare 
the nuts while the cream is cooling, being careful to remove 
all of the brown, puckery substance in the folds of the nuts. 

115 



Rinse thoroughly in boiling water and dry them thoroughly, 
then chop fine. Add to the cream and freeze until stiff. Then 
remove the beater, pack in mould if so desired, and let ripen 
for about 2 hours. 

SULTANA ROLL. 

Make a custard of 1 pint milk, 1 cup of sugar, 1 tablespoon 
flour, 1 egg and % teaspoon salt. Cook 20 minutes, stirring 
frequently, then strain and cool. Add 1 quart of ordinary 
cream. Flavor with vanilla (color with coloring paste if 
desired). Freeze, then line mould about 1 inch deep. Fill 
the hollow with sweetened whipped cream to which has been 
added Sultana raisins which have been soaked in brandy 4 
hours. Pack in ice and salt and let stand 4 hours before 
serving. Mrs. Wall. 

CARAMEL MOUSSE. 

Stir 1 cup of granulated sugar over the fire constantly until 
it is a golden brown. Do not let it get too brown or it will be 
bitter. Let it cool a little, then add 1 cup of hot milk and stir 
over hot water until the caramel is all dissolved. Beat the 
yolks of 4 eggs until thick, add a little of the hot caramel mix- 
ture, and when well mixed with the eggs stir into the rest of 
the mixture and stir until quite cold. Flavor with 1 teaspoon 
vanilla and beat until thoroughly blended. Whip 3 cups of 
cream very stiff and fold in the caramel mixture thoroughly. 
Turn into a quart mold, butter the edges of the cover, put on 
tight and pack in ice and salt. Let stand about 4 hours before 
serving. 

PRUNE MOUSSE. 

Wash and place in earthen or granite dish y 2 pound Cali- 
fornia prunes, over which pour while hot \y 2 cups of water 
in which 4 tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar have been boiled 
until clarified. Let stand over night, or until prunes are fully 
swollen. Remove pits and cut primes in quarters and place in 
mold, over which pour the following sago jelly and place on 
ice or in cool place to harden. Serve with " Marshmallow 
Cream." 

116 



SAGO JELLY. 

To 1 quart of water put 6 heaping tablespoonfuls of sago. 
Let stand a half hour or more, then boil to a jelly. Stir all the 
time while boiling. A pinch of salt may be added if desired. 
Partially cool before pouring over prunes. 

MARSH MALLOW CREAM FOR PRUNE MOUSSE. 

One cup granulated sugar, y 2 cup water, % pound good 
marshmallow candy. Boil sugar and water until it threads. 
Remove from fire and put into it while hot the marshmallow 
candy. When dissolved, beat to the consistency of cream 
(only), adding the well beaten white of 1 egg gradually while 
beating. 
Mrs. M. F. Cressey, 304 Eighteenth Street, Milwaukee, Wis. 

CARAMEL MOUSSE. 

One cup maple syrup, 4 egg yolks, 1 pint whipping cream; 
boil syrup until it thickens a little, pour into the egg yolks, 
which have been beaten stiff ; put in double boiler and stir until 
thickens, then beat until cold; add whipped cream and stir in. 
Put in mold and pack in ice 3 hours. Seal mold with lard 
before packing. Mrs. I. J. Bryan. 

COFFEE MOUSSE. 

One pint cream whipped stiff, y 2 cup very strong coffee, 1 
scant cup sugar dissolved in coffee, 4 egg yolks beaten. Mix 
coffee, sugar and eggs, stir in whipped cream. Pour in mold, 
seal mold with lard, pack in salted ice 3 hours. 

Mrs. E. C. Noe. 

This Vatican punch was first made for Pope Pius VI at 
the time Napoleon entered Italy, 1797. A son of the chief 
confectioner to the Pope, named Nolas, ran away from his 
father and united his fortunes with the French. He later 
became the favorite cook to the Empress Josephine and after 
her death to the Russian Prince Lieven, whom he accompanied 
to London, where the prince was appointed ambassador to the 
court of St. James. This Italian made the Papal beverage for 
the Prince's table. The Prince procured the recipe and per- 
mitted a few of his friends to copy it. It has been passed down 
from one generation to another to the present. G. T. 

117 



VATICAN PUNCH. 

Two pineapples, 1 dozen lemons, 2 pounds of sugar, 2 pints 
of champagne, 1 pint of Jamaica rum, 1 quart of water. Grate 
the pineapple and strain. Pare the lemons, removing all pith ; 
wash, crush and strain. Make a syrup of the sugar and water, 
add the juice of the pineapple and freeze. Beat the whites of 
the eggs till they are stiff ; add 1 tablespoon of sugar for each 
egg, and the juice of the lemons. Pour this into freezer with 
the pineapple and mix thoroughly. Before serving add a gill 
of rum to each quart of the mixture and a pint of champagne 
to each 2 quarts. Return to freezer and chill. 

Mrs. Guy Magee. 

FROZEN EGGNOGG. 

One quart cream, 6 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls 
sherry wine, 2 tablespoonfuls brandy. Beat yolks of eggs and 
add sugar ; scald cream ; pour over eggs and sugar. Put in 
double boiler and cook until nice custard. When cold and 
ready to freeze beat whites of eggs and add brandy and wine. 

Mrs. C. A. Burton. 

LEMON SHERBET. 

Two cups sugar, juice of 3 lemons, 1 quart of milk, whites 
of 3 eggs well beaten and added after it is partly frozen. 

Anna Soderberg. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI PUNCH. 

Boil together for 5 minutes 1 quart of water and 1 pound of 
sugar; add the grated rind of 2 lemons and 4 oranges and 
continue boiling for 5 minutes longer. Strain the syrup 
through cheesecloth and add 1 quart of cold water. Extract 
the juice from the lemons and oranges, mix with 2 dozen 
Malaga grapes cut in half and seeded, two sliced tangerine 
oranges, 4 slices of pineapple and 1 pint bottle of Maraschino 
cherries with their liquor. Serve well iced. 

Mrs. O. H. Watson. 

COFFEE ICE. 

One pint of the strongest coffee, 1 pint of richest cream. 
Sweeten and freeze. 

118 



RASPBERRY ICE. 

One quart of rich cream, 1 quart of crushed raspberries. 
Sweeten and freeze. 

CAFE PARFAIT. 
To 1 pint of thick add % cup of powdered sugar,* % 
cup very black coffee and 1 teaspoon vanilla. Whip the 
mixture and as the froth rises skim it off and place carefully 
on a skimmer. Continue to whip and skim until no more froth 
rises. Let stand in a very cold place for 15 minutes, then turn 
the froth into a solid mold with a tightly fitting cover. Pack 
in ice and salt for 3 or 4 hours before serving. /. W. G. 

LEMON GINGER SHERBET. 
Four lemons, 4 ounces crystallized ginger, 2 cupfuls sugar, 
4 cupfuls boiling water. Shave off peel from 2 lemons in thin 
parings ; also shave ginger in small pieces. Pour boiling water 
on them and let it steep 15 minutes. Squeeze lemons, add sugar 
and after removing parings add water and ginger to lemon 
juice and sugar. Stir until dissolved. When cold freeze as 
usual. Mrs. N. E. Johnson. 

PARFAIT. 

One pint of triple cream whipped until stiff, whites of 3 eggs 
beaten and add to cream, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. Put in mold 
and freeze 4 hours. Serve with whipped cream and candied 
cherries put around it. Sweeten to taste. Miss J. A. Drake. 

FROZEN CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

One-half box Knox gelatine. Dissolve in 2 cups of milk; 
10 eggs, whites only beaten stiff ; 1 quart triple cream whipped 
stiff, Y\ pint sherry wine, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. Put in 
freezer and freeze as you would ice cream. Remove dasher 
and pack. This is delicious. Miss Drake. 

FROZEN EGGNOGG. 
One and a half pints cream, 1 scant cup sugar, 3 eggs, 
flavoi ing. Heat cream in double boiler ; beat yolks of eggs with 
sugar, add to cream and cook to the consistency of thick 
cream. When cool add J / 2 nutmeg grated, 2 tablespoonfuls 
brandy and 2 tablespoonfuls sherry (or New England rum, if 

119 



preferred). When ready to freeze add beaten whites of eggs; 
freeze. Mrs. E. J. Bowes. 

LEMON SHERBET. 

One pint cold water, juice of 3 lemons, \y 2 cups granulated 
sugar, whites of 3 eggs. Stir in juice of the lemons into the 
water; add the sugar. Put in freezer and stir until nearly 
frozen. Then add the beaten whites of the eggs and stir only 
enough to mix thoroughly. It should be as white as snow or 
ice cream. Ida S. Downs. 



PRESERVES. 

'* A perpetual feast of nectared sweets." 

WINDSOR MARMALADE. 

One dozen oranges, 4 lemons, 12 pints of water, 12 pounds of 
sugar. Slice oranges and lemons very thin and soak them in 
the water for 48 hours. Boil the mixture down to one-half 
the quantity and add the sugar. Boil again until it jellies. Use 
an orange saw for slicing and a porcelain kettle for the boiling. 
Heat the sugar in a slow oven before adding it to the orange. 

Mrs. Guy Magee. 

CHERRY CONSERVE. 

Three pounds stoned cherries (4 quart boxes), 2 pounds 
seeded raisins, 4 large oranges, 4 pounds sugar. Chop oranges 
fine ; steam raisins 20 minutes, then chop them coarse ; add 
cherries, oranges and sugar. Boil 20 minutes and put in jelly 
glasses. Mrs. H. S. Harris. 

CITRON PRESERVES. 
Get good solid citron, pare off rind, seed, cut in 3 slices 
2 inches long; weigh, put in preserving kettle with water 
enough to cover. Boil 1 hour. Take out citron and to the 
water add as much sugar as there is melon by weight. Boil 
until quite thick, replace melon, add 2 thinly sliced lemons 
if small or 1 large to each pound of fruit. Boil 20 minutes, 
take out fruit, boil syrup until thick molasses ; pour over fruit, 
seal quickly. Mrs. James Flanigan. 

120 



BAR LE DUC. 

To 4 quarts of red or white currants add 1 jar of strained 
honey. Cook 20 minutes. Mrs. John Vance Cheney. 

THE FOUR MEASURES. 

One quart of stoned cherries, 1 quart of red currants, 1 quart 
of red raspberries, 1 quart of gooseberries. Add equal amount 
of sugar and boil as for jelly. Mrs. Fred Hubbard. 

PINEAPPLE AND STRAWBERRY JAM. 

One large pineapple to every 4 boxes of strawberries. Pare 
pineapple with silver knife, remove eyes, and shred with a 
silver fork. Weigh and add an equal weight of sugar. Stand 
aside over night or for a few hours at least. Weigh straw- 
berries, wash, hull and add equal weight sugar. Also stand 
aside. Then bring strawberries and sugar slowly to a boil. 
Remove strawberries from syrup with a silver salad fork or 
other large fork to a platter and set in sunshine. Put pine- 
apple and pineapple syrup into strawberry syrup and cook 
until pineapple is tender and syrup is quite thick. Test a little 
on a saucer. Now return strawberries to pineapples and syrup 
and bring again to boil, stirring continually. Pour in jelly 
glass. When cold cover with paraffin. Some tastes might 
prefer more pineapple, say 1 cup of pineapple to 2 of straw- 
berries, always taking an equal weight of sugar of each, not 
measure. Mrs. N. E. Johnson. 

PEAR CHIPS. 

Eight pounds pears, 6 pounds sugar, 6 lemons and the rinds 
of 3, y 2 pound preserved ginger. Slice the pears on a cabbage 
sheer, slice ginger and lemons, removing lemon seeds. Put the 
material in jars in layers, let stand 24 hours, then cook until 
clear, and can. Anna Mitchell, Albany, N. Y. 

ORANGE STRAWS. 

Put orange peel in a weak brine for 3 or 4 days, changing 
water each day. Then scrape out as much as possible of inner 
white skin and cut peel into narrow strips with scissors. Put 
strips, or straws, on stove with enough water to cover and let 
boil for 10 or 15 minutes, drain and repeat the process. After 

121 



draining again, return to fire with 1 cup of sugar and y 2 cup 
of water (this quantity enough for peelings of 6 oranges). 
Cook down slowly until syrup is nearly absorbed by orange 
peel. Then remove with a silver fork and place in waxed 
paper, well sprinkled with sugar. Grace Gruber Cloyes. 

BAKED APPLES WITH CREAM OF WHEAT. 

Pare and remove the cores from tart apples, fill cavities with 
sugar, add a few spoonfuls of water. Bake until tender, turn- 
ing to keep them whole. Serve hot, filling the centers with 
well cooked cream of wheat. Serve with whipped cream. 

SAGO JELLY. 

Sago jelly is a nice dish for an invalid. Add 6 tablespoon- 
fuls of sago to a quart of boiling water and stir frequently until 
it has formed a thick jelly. Sweeten with 5 or 6 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar and flavor with vanilla, nutmeg, cinnamon or lemon. 
Pour it into small molds while it is still hot and when cold 
serve with a little cream. 

WATERMELON PRESERVE. 

Take the red part of a good sized watermelon and all of the 
juice ; boil till it is almost a jam ; add 5 pounds of granulated 
sugar; boil an hour, stirring often, so it will not burn. Take 
it off from the fire and while still boiling hot add a 15-cent 
bottle of vanilla. Put up in glasses. Mrs. Charles Berrall. 

HOW TO PRESERVE A HUSBAND. 

Be careful in your selection, do not choose too young and 
take only such varieties as have been reared in a good moral 
atmosphere. When once decided upon and selected, let that 
part remain forever settled, and give your entire thought to 
preparation for domestic use. Some insist on keeping them in 
a pickle, while others are constantly getting them into hot 
water. Even poor varieties may be made sweet, tender and 
good by garnishing them with patience well sweetened with 
smiles and flavored with kisses, to taste ; then wrap well in a 
mantle of charity, keep warm with a steady fire of devotion and 
serve with peaches and cream. When thus prepared they will 
keep for years. Aunt Sarah. 

122 



SPICED RHUBARB. 

Peel and slice thin 5 pounds of rhubarb, put on a dish (not 
tin) and sprinkle with 2 pounds of sugar. Let stand over 
night. In the morning drain off the syrup into a preserve 
kettle, add 3 pounds of sugar and a cup of vinegar, and set over 
the fire. Tie 3 or 4 dozen whole cloves in a little muslin bag, 
with a piece of ginger root (not candied ginger), and a stick 
of cinnamon. Put into the syrup and let boil until syrup is 
thick. Skim out the spice, add the rhubarb and cook until 
clear. Take up carefully and put into jars, to be used as 
needed. Be sure to get all the strings off the rhubarb. 

Ida S. Downs. 

JIM JAM. 

Five pounds of sugar, juice from 5 pounds of currants, 
1 quart red raspberry juice (about 6 boxes required), 1 pound 
large raisins seeded and cut in two, 2 seedless oranges cut in 
dice (peel and all). Boil all \% hours. Serve with meats. 

Ida S. Downs. 

MIXED PICKLES. 

One quart small cucumbers, 1 quart wax beans, 1 pint small 
onions, 1 cauliflower cut up, kohlrabi, carrots and root celery, 
about a quart of each. Soak the cucumbers in salt water 24 
hours. Boil the other vegetables till tender, not soft, in sep- 
arate vessels of salt water. For the dressing take 2y 2 quarts 
of diluted vinegar, \ l / 2 cups white sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls mus- 
tard, 1 teaspoon curry powder, 1 scant cup flour. Boil till 
thick as cream. Pack the vegetables in glass jars, adding 1 
small red pepper, cut in strips, to each can. Pour the hot 
dressing over and seal. Elizabeth Crosby. 

MARMALADE. 

Three cups chopped pieplant, 1 cup chopped pineapple, 1 
orange juice and grated rind, 5 cups sugar. Cook till thick, then 
add ]/z pound chopped almonds and lastly the juice of 1 lemon. 
This makes 6 jelly glasses, and it is very fine. Mrs. Crosby. 

HEAVENLY HASH. 

One quart gooseberries, 1 pint red currants, 1 pint red rasp- 
berries, 1 pineapple chopped, 1 pound English walnuts chopped 

123 



5^ pound chopped raisins if liked, 8 cups sugar. Cook until 
thick. Makes 14 or 15 jelly glasses full. 

CONSERVE. 

Eight cups currants or gooseberries, 8 cups sugar, 1 cup 
chopped raisins, 3 oranges. Cook 20 minutes. 

Elisabeth Crosby. 



PICKLES, 

" Where's the peck of pickled peppers Peter Piper picked? " 

COLUMBIA CHUTNEY. 

Pare and quarter 15 large and very sour apples and chop very 
fine, together with 2 green peppers (from which the seeds have 
been taken), a cupful of stoned raisins and 2 onions. Place in 
a glazed kettle, add a quart of vinegar and simmer 2 hours. 
Now put in 2 cups brown sugar and 2 tablespoons each mus- 
tard seed, ground ginger and salt. Cook slowly 1 hour longer. 

Mrs. R. W. Murison. 

CHOW CHOW. 

One quart small onions, 2 quarts small cucumbers, 1 quart 
green beans, 2 quarts cauliflower, 8 green peppers sliced. Soak 
all in brine 24 hours. Then let come to a boil in the brine. To 
2 quarts good cider vinegar add 8 tablespoons dry mustard, 
\y 2 cups flour, % ounce tumeric. Boil all together until well 
cooked. Then pour over pickles, which have been drained. 

CHOPPED PICKLES. 

One peck of green tomatoes, 6 or 8 onions chopped fine. Let 
them stand over night with a cupful of salt sprinkled through 
the layers. In the morning drain through a colander. Cook 
20 minutes in 2 quarts of water, drain off that liquid, add to 
pickle 4 cups of vinegar, 3 chopped red peppers, a little stick 
cinnamon. Boil 15 minutes ; stir to keep from burning. 

Mrs. Harris, 

124 



CANADIAN TOMATO MUSTARD. 

One gallon ripe tomatoes ; boil and strain ; add 1 quart malt 
vinegar, 1 pound white sugar, 1 ounce white pepper, 1 ounce 
whole alspice, % pound salt, y^ pound best mustard, 1 green 
pepper, slash and put in whole. Boil 2 hours, take out pepper 
and allspice. Bottle when cold. Mrs. J. S. Johns. 

CURRANT SOY. 

Five pounds ripe currants, 3 pounds sugar, 1 pint of vine- 
gar, 2 tablespoonfuls salt, 1 tablespoonful cloves, 1 tablespoon- 
ful allspice and 1 tablespoonful pepper, 1 tablespoonful cinna- 
mon. Cook 1 hour. Put in jars and cover with paraffin. 

Mrs. F. F. Caine. 

TOMATO PICKLE WITH RAISINS. 
One peck green tomatoes, 12 large onions, 4 green peppers, 
2 red peppers, 6 stalks celery, 2 pounds seeded raisins, 3 pounds 
brown sugar, 1 quart vinegar, mixed spices and cinnamon to 
taste. To prepare the pickle slice tomatoes and chop the 
onions ; cut celery into inch lengths ; scald tomatoes in vinegar 
(enough to cover) until tender. Then put a layer of tomatoes 
in crock, then celery, raisins and onions ; add spices, 1 quart 
fresh vinegar. Heat 4 times (all together), 4 mornings. 

Mrs. H. S. Harris. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Twenty-four large tomatoes, 4 green peppers, 4 large onions, 
1 bunch celery, 4 cups vinegar, 1 cup grated horseradish, 4 
tablespoonfuls sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls salt, 3 tablespoonfuls 
ginger, 3 tablespoonfuls ground cloves, 2 tablespoonfuls allspice 
1 tablespoonful mace, 1 tablespoonful pepper (red). Chop 
celery, peppers, onions and tomatoes. Tie spices in bag and boil 
together \]/ 2 hours. Mrs. Macquarrie. 

PICKLES IN OIL. 
Wash 100 small cucumbers, 3 pints small white onions, %. 
cup of white pepper or 2 or 3 red peppers sliced, y 2 cup celery 
seed, 1 teacup of oil, more if you desire it. To prepare the 
pickle, put a layer of cucumbers, then a layer of onions, sprin- 
kle through the layers 1 cup of salt; let stand 5 hours, or all 
night ; rinse off through colander ; add spices, oil and vinegar 
to cover ; stir well. Seal in Mason jars. Mrs. H. S. Harris. 

us 



GRAPE CATSUP. 

Six pounds of grapes, 4 pounds of sugar, 1 pint of vinegar, 
1 tablespoonful each of cinnamon and allspice, y 2 tablespoonful 
cloves. Rub the grapes through a sieve. Simmer 2y 2 hours. 

PICKLED PEPPERS. 

To 2 dozen large green peppers, y 2 gallon cider vinegar, y 2 
teacup sugar, ]/ 2 small head of cabbage, red or white, 3 dozen 
small silver skin onions, an ounce of celery seed and 2 tablespoon- 
fuls grated horseradish. Cut the peppers in half and remove the 
seeds ; put peppers in strong salt water over night. Cut the 
cabbage on a cabbage cutter; add the celery seed and onions 
and horseradish. Drain the peppers and stuff with the cab- 
bage, etc. Tie the halves together and place in a stone jar. 
Heat the vinegar, with sugar, to the boiling point, and pour 
over the peppers, leaving them uncovered until cool. Then 
cover securely and put in a cool place. About the third day 
they will be ready to serve. Mrs. N. B. Lewis. 

TOMATO KETCHUP. 
One peck ripe tomatoes, 2 large or 3 small green peppers, 3 
large or 4 small onions, 4 tablespoonfuls salt, 1 cupful brown 
sugar, 3 cupfuls vinegar ; 1 large stick cinnamon, y 2 table- 
spoonful whole cloves, J / 2 tablespoonful whole allspice, 1 table- 
spoonful whole ginger, y 2 tablespoonful mustard seed, y 2 
tablespoonful celery seed, in a small cheesecloth bag. Chop 
onions and peppers fine and cut up tomatoes. Boil until tender, 
about 1 hour. Squeeze hard through a fruit press till all pulp 
except skin and seeds are through. Return to clean kettle 
with sugar, salt, vinegar and spices in a bag. Simmer slowly, 
stirring often, until slightly thick, or very thick, if desired, 
from 1^ to 3 r^urs. This makes a light colored ketchup, 
which children can partake of. If liked darker and richer use 
ground spices instead. Mrs. N. E. Johnson. 

BTTCK-EN-BRECK. 
One peck of green tomatoes, y 2 peck of ripe tomatoes, 12 
onions, 12 peppers (6 green, 6 ripe), 1 large head of cabbage. 
Chop all except ripe tomatoes, salt heavy and drain over night. 
In the morning add the ripe tomatoes skinned and sliced, 2 
tablespoons allspice, 1 of pepper, 1 of mace and a quart of 

126 



vinegar which has been boiled with 3 pounds of brown sugar, 
and boil all together for 3 hours. When done add cold vinegar 
enough to cover it. Mrs. Seymour Jones. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 
Wash green tomatoes and slice rather thin ; salt them thor- 
oughly, 1 cup of salt to a peck of tomatoes ; salt in layers. Let 
stand over night, drain in the morning; allow 3 pounds of 
sugar to 3 quarts cider vinegar. Put sugar and vinegar to 
boil, when it boils set off from fire and remove the scum if any 
appears. Slice 3 onions, 3 green peppers in thin strips, 1 table- 
spoonful ground cinnamon, 20 whole cloves, 1 ounce whole 
allspice, 4 ounces shaved horseradish. Place vinegar and sugar 
again on the fire and add onions, horseradish and spices. When 
it boils add tomatoes, press under the vinegar and bring to a 
quick boil, then remove from the fire at once. 

Mrs. I. Jennings Bryan. 



CANDY, 

Roly-poly, isn't he fat? 

Plump as a peach; yes, more than that. 

Candy was his hourly cry, 

Candy zvas his bosom's sigh. 

CANDIED VIOLETS. 

Remove the green stalks from the freshly picked violets. 
Boil good cane sugar to the blow (drop in ice water and if 
after remaining there a few seconds it can be drawn into long 
threads between thumb and first finger it is at the "blow"). 
Add violet flavor or violet extract and enough plum purple food 
color to make it a good violet, then throw in the violets and 
again bring the sugar to the blow. Draw the pan to the side of 
the stove and rub the sugar against the side of the pan until it 
whitens, then stir it well together, till the sugar separates from 
the flowers. Now turn the flowers onto a sieve. Lift off any 
loose sugar and place in oven to dry. For rose leaves use rasp- 
berry-red food color and rose flavoring. For peppermint leaves 
use grape-green food color and peppermint extract or oil. 

Anna Rugby. 

127 



ALMOND MACAROONS. 

Pour boiling water on half a pound of almonds ; take skins 
off and throw into cold water for a few moments ; then take out 
and pound to a smooth paste, adding a tablespoon of essence 
of lemon. Add 1 pound of pulverized sugar and whites of 3 
eggs and work the paste well together with back of spoon. 
Dip the hands in water and roll mixture into balls the size of 
a nutmeg and lay on buttered paper an inch apart. When done 
dip the hands in water and pass over the macaroons gently, 
making the surface smooth and shining. Set in cool oven ^ 
hour. If this recipe is strictly followed the macaroons will 
be found equal to anv made bv professional confectioners. 

Mrs. L. S. W. 

LEMON CANDY. 

Take a pound of loaf sugar and a large cup of water, and 
after cooking over a slow fire half an hour clear with a little 
hot vinegar, take off the scum as it rises, testing by raising 
with a spoon, and when the "threads" will snap like glass, pour 
into a tin pan and when nearly cold mark in narrow strips with 
a knife. Before pouring into the pan, chopped cocoanut, 
almonds, hickory nuts or Brazil nuts, cut in slices, may be 
stirred into it. Mrs. Nellie L. Giles. 

BUTTERNUT CANDY. 

Two cups maple sugar, 1 cup white sugar, 1 cup cream, 1 
teaspoonful butter. Boil until it hardens in water. Add 1 cup 
butternut meats (broken into small pieces) ; pour into a but- 
tered tin. When cool mark into squares. Mrs. N. B. Lewis. 

WELLESLEY MARSHMALLOW FUDGE. 

Heat 2 cups of granulated sugar and 1 cup of rich milk 
(cream is better). Add 2 squares of bakers' chocolate and 
boil until it hardens in cold water. Just before it is done add 
a small piece of butter, then begin to stir in marshmallows, 
crushing and beating them with a spoon. Continue to stir in 
marshmallows after the fudge has been taken from the fire 
until y 2 pound has been stirred into the fudge. Cool in sheets 
Y^ inch thick and cut in cubes. Mrs. Hubbard. 

J 28 



CREAM CANDY. 

Two cups of sugar, 1 tablespoon vinegar, enough water to 
cover the sugar. When it starts to boil add a piece of butter 
the size of a walnut. Cook without stirring until a spoonful 
dropped into cold water can be rolled into a soft ball. Then 
add 1 teaspoon vanilla, turn out on a buttered platter and 
when cool enough to be handled pull until white. 

Mrs. Hnrter. 

WALNUT BRITTLE. 

Three and a half pounds granulated sugar, 2 pounds of glu- 
cose, 1 pint of molasses, 2 pounds walnuts, 1 ounce of soda. 
Cook to 310 degrees, or until it is brittle. 

Mrs. Mary F. Pease, Springfield, III. 

HOARHOUND CANDY. 

Boil 2 ounces of dried hoarhound in \ l / 2 pints of water for 
about l / 2 hour ; strain and add Zy 2 pounds brown sugar. Boil 
over a hot fire until it is sufficiently hard ; pour out in' flat well 
greased tin trays, mark into sticks or small squares. 

Mrs. Nellie L. Giles. 

BROWN SUGAR FUDGE. 

Three cups brown sugar, 1 cup milk, and butter the size of 

a walnut. Boil until it hardens in water. Take from stove ; 

add vanilla ; beat until creamy ; turn into buttered plate. Mark 

off into squares when cool. Broken pecan meats may be added. 

Elizabeth Gondy Slocum. 

BALTIMORE KISSES. 
Beat the whites of 4 small eggs to a high, firm froth ; stir into 
it y 2 pound of pulverized sugar ; flavor with essence of lemon 
or rose and continue to beat until very light; then drop half 
the size of an egg and a little more than an inch apart on well 
buttered letter paper. Lay the paper on a ^-inch board and 
place in a moderate oven. Watch and as soon as they begin 
to look yellowish take them out. Or beat to a stiff froth the 
whites of 2 eggs, stirring into them very gradually 2 teacups 
powdered sugar and 2 tablespoons cornstarch. Bake on but- 
tered tins 15 minutes in a warm oven, or until slightly brown. 
Chocolate pulp is made by adding 2 ounces grated chocolate 
mixed with the corn starch. Mrs. W. W. W. 

129 



BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Three cupfuls white sugar, y 2 cup water, y 2 cup vinegar or 
y 2 teaspoon of cream of tartar, 1 tablespoon butter and 8 drops 
extract of lemon. Boil without stirring till it will snap and 
break when dropped in cold water. Just before taking from 
fire add 34 teaspoon of soda. Pour into well buttered biscuit 
tins 34 m °h thick ; mark off into inch squares when partly cold. 

COCOANUT DROPS. 

One pound cocoanut, y 2 pound powdered sugar and the 
white of an egg. Work all together and roll into little balls in 
the hand, and bake on buttered tins. C. W. C. 

COCOANUT CARAMELS. 

One pint milk, butter size of an egg, 1 cocoanut grated (or 
desiccated cocoanut may be used), 3 pounds white sugar, 2 
teaspoons extract of lemon. Boil slowly until stiff (some then 
beat to a cream). Pour into shallow buttered pans and when 
partly cold cut in squares. 

CARAMEL CREAM. 

Boil together 2 scant cups of brown sugar and 2-3 cup milk. 
When this begins to boil drop in a piece of butter the size of 
an egg. Flavor with vanilla. Boil this 5 minutes and pour 
into buttered tins. Lillian L. Bins. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

Five cups sugar, 3 egg whites, 1 ounce glycerine, vanilla to 
taste, 1 teaspoon of acetic acid. Cover the sugar with water 
and boil until it reaches 24iy 2 degrees. Put in the acid when 
it begins to boil and the vanilla when you take it off. Put one- 
half the glycerine on the slab and pour the rest on top of the 
candy. When it is cool enough add the beaten whites of 3 
eggs and work all together until it " picks up." Dip in melted 
chocolate. Mrs. Nellie L. Giles. 

CHOCOLATE TAFFY. 

Mix together 2 cupfuls of granulated sugar and 3 cupfuls 
grated chocolate, l / 2 cupful boiling water. Boil all together 
until nearly done ; add butter the size of a hickory nut and boil 

130 



until the candy snaps. Remove from the' fire, flavor with 2 
spoonfuls of vanilla, cool and pull or cut any shape desired. 

Mrs. N. B. Lewis. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

White of 1 egg, 2 pounds confectioners' sugar, }/ 2 cup 
orange juice. Beat the white of the egg until it looks cloudy, 
then add a little sugar and beat, then a little orange juice, 
then sugar again and so on until all the orange juice is used up 
and finish by adding sugar until the fondant is thick enough 
to roll into balls or any shape you wish. Take y 2 cake of 
Baker's chocolate and melt by setting the bowl over a steaming 
kettle, then dip the creams into this and lay on waxed paper. 
Use any flavor desired. Cocoanut and nuts and fruit may be 
put in the fondant and is delicious. Lillian L. Binz. 

SUCRE DE LA CREME. 

Boil 3 cupfuls of sugar and 1 of cream for 12 minutes ; then 
stir briskly, adding a cupful of nut meats ; pour upon oiled 
paper and when nearly cool cut into squares. 

Mrs. F. F. Cain. 

MAPLE SUGAR ON SNOW. 

Boil 1 pint maple syrup until when dropped on snow it 
remains on the surface and becomes waxy. Then spread it 
upon the surface of the snow or a block of ice. This will be 
found one of the most delicious treats obtainable. 

EVERTON TAFFY. 

Five pounds of light " C " sugar, \y 2 pounds of glucose, Y$ 
pound good butter, J < teaspoon of salt. Cook to 320 degrees, 
or until it hardens in water. 

Mrs. L. T. Smith, Spring-field, III. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

One pint New Orleans molasses. % cup of vinegar, butter 
y 2 size of egg, J / 2 teaspoon soda, dissolve and put in with 
butter. When it hardens in cold water remove from fire and 
pull. Mrs. M. L. Fixen. 

131 



MAPLE FUDGE. 

One pound cake of maple sugar, 1 cup cream, butter size of 
walnut. Cook over slow fire, stirring most of the time. When 
done remove and beat for 15 minutes, until stiff. Pour into 
well buttered tins. Mrs. M. L. Fixen. 

OPERA CREAMS. 

Boil together 2 cups of sugar, 1 cup of water and piece of 
butter the size of a walnut and y> tablespoonful of vinegar. 
Let this boil until when dropped into cold water comes to a 
soft ball. Then pour out into buttered pans and set out to cool 
about 5 minutes. Then take a spoon and beat it until it be- 
comes quite white, then pour into a platter, and in a few min- 
utes it will be ready to cut into squares. 

Lillian L. Bins. 

WHITE TAFFY. 
Five pounds granulated sugar, 1 pound of glucose, y> pound 
good butter, y 2 ounce vanilla. Cook barely to 260 degrees. 
Pour in well buttered tins and when cool pull until white and 
light. Mrs. R. E. Slater, Springfield, III. 

OLD-FASHIONED MOLASSES TAFFY. 

Three pounds sugar, \y 2 quarts of molasses, 1 pound good 
butter, 1 pound of glucose. Cook slowly to 260 degrees, or 
until it hardens when dropped in cold water. When cool pull 
to a light brown. Mrs. R. E. Slater, Springfield, III. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 
One quart molasses, 1 cup brown sugar, piece of butter the 
size of an egg. Boil over slow fire, stirring to prevent burn- 
ing. When it hardens in cold water and breaks short between 
the teeth it is boiled enough. Now put in y teaspoon of 
baking soda and flavoring ; stir well and pour into flat well but- 
tered tins. When partly cool pull until light, draw out in 
narrow strips and clip with scissors. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

Two teacupfuls brown sugar, 1 teacupful molasses, 1 
tablespoonful vinegar, a little butter and vanilla. Boil for 10 
minutes and when sufficiently cool pull thoroughly. 

132 



CREAM CANDY. 

Three cups white Sugar, 1 cup of. vinegar; color with rasp- 
berry juice. Boil without stirring till a drop in cold water 
becomes crisp. Cool and pull. Mrs. Lewis. 

PINOUCHI. 

• Boil 3 cups light brown sugar (or 2 of light brown and 1 
cup of granulated sugar), butter size of an egg, \y 2 cups of 
milk, stirring only now and then until it forms a very soft 
ball when dropped into cold water. When done take from fire, 
add vanilla, stir and beat constantly until it begins to thicken. 
Then add 1 cup English walnuts (cut up, not chopped), and 
stir again. Then pour quickly into a buttered tin or plate. Cut 
into squares before it hardens. Mrs. W. H. Robinson. 

STUFFED DATES. 

Remove stones and fill in cavity with blanched almonds or 
peanut or walnut meats. Roll in powdered sugar. 

GRILLED ALMONDS. 

Blanch a cupful of almonds by pouring hot water on them. 
Let stand a few minutes and then plunge into cold water; 
dry thoroughly. Boil 1 cup of granulated sugar with 1 cup of 
water until it " hairs," then throw in the blanched almonds. 
Let them cook in this syrup, stirring occasionally, until they 
become a delicate brown before the sugar changes. As soon 
as the sugar commences to take on a color quickly take the 
pan from the fire and stir the almonds rapidly until the syrup 
has turned back to sugar and clings irregularly to the nuts. 

" Tried and True." 

SALTED ALMONDS. 

Have olive oil smoking hot in the spider and put in the 
almonds with the skins left on. Stir until brown, then pour 
off the oil and salt. Mrs. John Vance Cheney. 

CHOCOLATE CHESTNUTS. 

Dip boiled chestnuts one by one into a rich syrup thickened 
with chocolate and flavored with vanilla. After dipping the 
chestnuts place them upon oiled paper. Mrs. Fred P. Cain. 

133 



CHOCOLATE ALMONDS. 

Blanch the almonds by pouring boiling water on them and 
let them stand 2 or 3 minutes. Roast them in oven. Dip them 
in the following recipe for chocolate coating and drop on 
paraffine paper: 

CHOCOLATE COATINGS— One-half pound cake Baker's 
sweet chocolate, 2 level tablespoon fuls butter, 2 tablespoonfuls 
boiling water. Put chocolate in saucepan over boiling water 
and when melted stir in butter and water. Mix well. If found 
to be too thick add more water ; if too thin, more chocolate. 

Mrs. N. B. Lewis. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Two pounds sugar, l / 2 pint dark molasses, 1 pound glucose, 
34 teaspoon ginger, ^ pound of butter, 2-3 pint of water. Cook 
sugar, glucose and water on hot fire until it forms a good hard 
ball in water, or 245 degrees with thermometer. Then add 
the molasses, butter and ginger and stir constantly after add- 
ing these, but not before. Cook now until almost brittle in 
water, or about 260 degrees with thermometer. Pour on 
greased marble slab very thin. Mark and cut up to suit. 

M. A. Pease, Canton, Ohio. 

POPCORN CRISPS. 

One and one-half pounds of sugar, T / 2 pound glucose, 2-3 
cup molasses, 2 ounces butter, 2-3 pint of water, good pinch 
salt. Cook sugar, glucose and water on hot fire until brittle 
in cold water. Stir it until it commences to boil and wipe down 
sides of kettle with damp cloth. When brittle in water, add 
molasses, butter and salt and stir constantly until it com- 
mences to burn, then pour out over about 10 quarts of popped 
corn and mix well. Then pour out on slab or platters as it 
settles down and gets hard if left in the pan it was mixed in. 
Lift out all unpopped kernels before adding syrup. 

M. A. Pease, Canton, Ohio. 

BABY CREAM. 

Two and one-half pounds of sugar, *4 pound of glucose, y 2 
pint of cream. Put sugar, glucose and a scant pint of water 
on fire and cook to 260 degrees with thermometer, or until 

134 



slightly brittle in cold water. Then add the cream and stir 
gently and let it cook'up again until brittle in water, or about 
270 degrees. Then pour out on greased slab or platter and 
as soon as it is cool enough pull until pretty stiff; then cut 
up in small pieces. This is a fine warm weather taffy, as it 
is not sticky, but mealy inside. Flavor and color to suit while 
pulling it. M. A. Pease, Canton, Ohio. 



THINGS WORTH KNOWING, 

" There is a knack in doing many a thing, 
Which labor cannot to perfection bring; 
Therefore, however great in your own eyes, 
Pray do not hints from other folks despise" 

If you wish to serve peas as an entree, cut out with a cookie 
cutter a round of bread from an ordinary sized slice of bread, 
then two rings with a doughnut cutter. Dip them in melted 
butter and toast delicately brown in the oven. Fill the cavities 
with peas cooked in a delicate cream sauce. 

Freshen the house by putting a few drops of oil of lavender 
in an ornamental bowl, then half fill it with very hot water. This 
will give a delightful freshness to the atmosphere. 

To secure rose flavoring, fill a wide-mouthed bottle with 
fresh petals, packing them down as tight as possible. Then 
pour over them enough pure alcohol to submerge. 

Flower vases can be easily purified and cleaned by rinsing 
them out with warm water and powdered charcoal. 

A recent addition to the list of savory salts is onion salt, 
which is now put up in shaker cans or bottles for flavoring use. 

To take white spots from varnished furniture, hold a hot 
plate over them and they will disappear. 

For rose syrup, collect fresh petals each morning and spread 
on a tray to dry. When enough have been collected for a 
tumbler of preserve put in a fresh granite or porcelain kettle 
with just enough water to cover, and simmer until tender. 

Celery should be allowed to lie in cold water to which a little 
salt has been added, for an hour before it is required for the 
table. This will make it very crisp. 

135 



To Brighten Copperware. — A little crushed borax if 
sprinkled thickly in a flannel cloth that is wet with hot water 
and well soaked will brighten the copper like magic. 

For Cake and Pie Pans. — Warm the pans and rub the inside 
with paraffine wax. This is superior to the old method of 
greasing the pans with butter. 

To prevent the odor of cabbage or onion throw red pepper 
pods into the pan they are cooking in. 

Save liquor from pickled peaches or pears for use in mince 
meat 

Clean flatirons with salt, if rusty use kerosene. 

Cracker crumbs cannot be compared to bread crumbs for 
breading, either in crispness or flavor. 

In steaming puddings, potpies or dumplings never remove 
the cover from the steamer until done, for they will fall. 

The frugal housewife has the bones and trimmings from her 
meats sent home from the market to be used for soup stock. 

Wash chamois skin in tepid water. Rinse and when partly 
dry stretch the skin again and it will be like new. 

To prevent the juice of pies from running out bind the edge 
of the pie when ready for the oven with a strip of cotton cloth 
1 inch wide, wet in cold water. 

Cut hot bread or cake with a hot knife. 

A little cold boiled coffee or turpentine mixed with stove 
blacking will produce a fine gloss. 

Always remove fruit or vegetables from the cans as soon as 
opened. 

If hot grease is spilled on the floor pour turpentine on it and 
it will soon disappear. 

Add a little dissolved borax to starch and it will give a fine 
polish. 

In making mush to fry, use part milk with the water. It 
will be richer and brown more readily. 

When the whites of eggs are used and the yolks not required 
at the same time, drop them into a cup, cover the surface with 
a little cold water, place in a cool place and they will keep 
several days without hardening. 

136 



"Butter the size of an egg" is a common expression. This 
equals about *4 of " a cupful, or 2 ounces or 1 heaping table- 
spoonful. 

Boil green vegetables in salted water until done, and then 
put in cold water. You can keep green vegetables fresh this 
way for several days. Use them afterward in a like manner 
as canned vegetables. 

To keep ants from the pantry sprinkle powdered borax upon 
the shelves. 

To prevent cake from burning set a pan of water in the oven. 

Spinach is valuable for its juices, which contain potash salts 
and when tender and well cooked is especially suited for those 
who need laxative food. 

While boiling corn beef put in a half cup of vinegar. 

A little lemon juice stewed with prunes adds flavor to them. 

In choosing a husband you should not be guided by the 
silvery appearance, as in buying mackerel ; nor in the golden 
tint, as if you wanted a salmon. Be sure to select him yourself, 
as tastes differ. 



GARNISHES. 



For ovsters, sardines, fish, roast veal or salads, lemon slices 
make a desirable garnish. For cold meats, chops and cutlets, 
parsley or celery tops. 

For decorating fowl nothing better than watercress can be 
used. Balls made of boiled rice with jelly on each are attractive 
on a plate of cold meat. 

In garnishing cold corned beef sliced gherkins and large 
pickles sliced make an attractive garnish. For game, cold 
tongue, fried oysters or roast veal, currant jelly is used as 
garnish. 

Never under any circumstances serve a heavy soup at a 
luncheon. 



MINT SAUCE FOR LAMB, 

One-half teacup vinegar boiled with 2 teaspoonfuls sugar 
and poured over 1 tablespoon ful mint leaves (chopped) and 
let it stand until cold. 

137 



With roast beef serve horseradish. 

With roast mutton mint sauce. 

With boiled mutton, caper sauce. 

With roast pork, apple sauce. 

With roast turkey serve cranberries. 

With roast duck, currant jelly. 

With roast goose serve spiced currants. 



DIET FOR RHEUMATICS. 

FORBIDDEN. 

All dark, heavy meats ; beef, pork, mutton, venison, goose, 
lobster, crabs, sugar, tomatoes, cucumbers, all salads that have 
a vinegar dressing. Stimulants of all kinds are poison to the 
rheumatic system. 

ALLOWED. 

Chicken, turkey, lamb, game, fish, sweetbreads, brains, 
poached or soft boiled eggs, oysters, clams, peas, green beans, 
carrots, turnips and well cooked greens. All mild fruits, 
cracked wheat, oatmeal, rice, health bread, toast. For drinks, 
lithia water and milk, either hot or cold ; cocoa. 

FOR SPRAINS. 

Beat up white of an tgg and sprinkle over it y 2 teaspoonful 
powdered alum. Spread on coarse brown paper and bind on 
the affected part. 



CHAFING DISH, 

"As that historic barque, long known as Noah's Ark, 
Was filled zuith choice samples of fowl, flesh and fish; 
So we in modern ages, conning these printed pages, 
Compass like miracles with the Chafing Dish." 

BABOON. 

Ingredients. — One can of tomatoes (thoroughly drained in 
colander), 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 teaspoonful of onion 
juice, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 saltspoonful of white pepper, 
unbeaten raw eggs to equal the number of guests. 

138 



Directions. — Place in chafing dish the butter, salt, pepper and 
onion juice, and when well blended add the tomatoes. Cover 
and cook thoroughly (usually about 10 minutes). Then add 
from a bowl the eggs and stir gently until the eggs set. Serve 
quickly on crackers, toast or triscuits. Usually from 8 to 12 
eggs are used to 1 can of tomatoes. Avoid cooking too long 
after the eggs are added, else the mixture may curdle. A 
" baboon " of this nature is recommended as being inexpensive, 
palatable and easily digested, and convenient, as the ingre- 
dients are usually to be found when needed. 

Kate Gordon Hewett. 

RAREBIT. 

One pound cheese cut fine. 2 teaspoonfuls salt, 1 cup milk, 
butter size walnut, small""tea spoon of mustard, dash red pepper, 
2 eggs well beaten. Melt cheese and butter, add salt, mustard 
and pepper. When all is melted add milk gradually and the 
eggs last. Pour over toasted bread and add a dash of paprika. 

Mrs. H. V. Wood. 

LOBSTER A LA NEUBERG. 

Meat of 1 boiled lobster cut into dice, good sized piece of 
butter, 1 pint of cream, yolks of 2 eggs, wine glass of sherry. 
Put the lobster in the chafing dish with the butter and stir until 
the butter is melted and lobster heated through. Mix the sherry 
with the cream and yolks of eggs ; pour over lobster and cook 
until thick like cream. Mrs. A. M. Collins. 

DREAM CAKES. 
Dip thin slices of buttered bread in well beaten egg. Then 
slice thin some good American cheese (preferably Herkimer 
County), sprinkle with red pepper and make sandwiches. Fry 
the sandwiches brown in butter in chafing dish, turning care- 
fully with fork so the sandwiches will not fall apart. Serve 
immediately. Mrs. C. A. Burton. 

SHREDDED HAM WITH CURRANT JELLY SAUCE. 

One-half cup butter. 1-3 cup currant jelly, few grains cay- 
enne, % cup sherry wine, 1 cup cold cooked ham cut in small 
strips. Put butter and currant jelly in the chafing dish. As 
soon as melted, add cayenne, wine and ham. Simmer 5 
minutes. Mrs. Cary. 

139 



CLAMS WITH GREEN PEPPERS. 

Put 1 tablespoonful butter, 2 tablespoon fuls chopped onion, 
4 tablespoonfuls finely chopped peppers in chafing dish and 
cook without browning. Add y 2 cupful strained clam juice, 
y 2 teaspoonful salt, a dash of paprika and 1 dozen finely 
chopped clams. Simmer for 5 minutes and pour over hot 
buttered toast. 

FISH A LA PROVENCALE. 

One-quarter cup butter, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 2 cups milk, 
yolks of 4 hard boiled eggs. 1 teaspoonful Anchovy essence, 2 
cups cold boiled flaked fish. Make a sauce of butter, flour and 
milk. Mash yolks of eggs and mix with Anchovy essence ; 
add to sauce, then add fish. Serve soon as heated. Mrs. Cary. 

FINNAN HADDIE. 

Take a finnan haddock, boil and pick up. Place in chafing 
dish with about a tablespoonful butter; let heat through, then 
add 1 cup cream, yolk of a raw egg, tablespoonful grated cheese 
and about 1 cup cream sauce and cook cream with salt and 
pepper and dash cayenne, if liked ; just before covering add the 
grated yolk of 2 hard boiled eggs. Serve on small pieces of 
toast. Mrs. George E. Watson. 

CREAMED FINNAN HADDIE. 

Take a finnan haddie weighing about 2 pounds. Put it 
flesh side down in a dripping pan and pour boiling water over 
it. let stand until cold. Then pick up the haddie (the white 
part only) and braise in a chafing dish with 2 -tablespoons of 
butter. Have ready 3 hard boiled eggs cut up in small pieces. 
Make a sauce of 1 pint milk, 1 tablespoonful butter and 2 
tablespoonfuls of corn starch, wet in a little of the milk. 
Season with saltspoon salt, 3 or 4 dashes of paprika. Add 
sauce to the haddie, and when boiling add eggs. You can 
also add y 2 wine glass sherry when ready to serve : or grated 
cheese is very nice sprinkled over it. Serve on toast. 

SHRIMP WIGGLE. 

One can of shrimps with the black lines removed and broken 
in half, 1 can of peas. Make a cream sauce after any good 

140 



recipe. Cook the shrimps in butter in the chafing dish for 10 
minutes; add the peas and sauce. Let it boil up once. Serve 
on toast. Add a wine glass of sherry at the last, if desired. 

Mrs. Wilbur Plum. 

FOR CHAFING DISH. 

For 1 can shrimps take y onion grated, y 2 cup boiled rice, 
y 2 cup cream, 1 tablespoon tomato catsup, 1 tablespoon butter. 

Julia L. Schoenthaler. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

Put 2 tablespoons butter into chafing dish and melt. When 
it is bubbling hot lay in 2 dozen oysters that have been drained. 
Cook until the edges of the oysters are ruffled, add 1 teaspoonful 
salt, a dash of red pepper, squeze in the juice of a lemon, and 
serve at once on hot buttered toast. C. T. Herrick. 

, CURRIED OYSTERS. 

Put the liquor drained from 1 quart of oysters into a sauce- 
pan, add y 2 cup of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 1 small 
tablespoon curry powder, well mixed. When boiled add 
oysters, season with salt and a dash of paprika. Let come to 
a boil and serve on salted wafers or toast. 

OYSTERS ALGONQUIN. 

Take 3 stalks celery, clean and chop fine. Put 3 tablespoons 
butter in chafing dish, add celery and cook well. Add 1 cup 
of cream, season with salt and pepper. When it comes to a 
boil add 1 dozen large oysters and cook until the edges of the 
oysters curl. Add 1 cordial glass of sherry, if liked. Serve on 
squares of toast. 

LOBSTER WITH OLIVE SAUCE. 

One cupful of stock made from Armour's Extract of Beef, 
1 tablespoonful of butter, 2 cups of cooked lobster meat, 3 
drops of onion extract, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 dozen stuffed 
olives, y teaspoonful of sherry, 1 teaspoonful of Worcester- 
shire sauce. Brown butter, add flour, stir until smooth, let 
brown. Add stock and olives cut in pieces; stir until thick. 
When it begins to thicken add lobster cut in pieces with silver 
knife. Cook until heated through, add seasoning and serve, 

141 



EGGS A LA CURRACCAS. 

One-fourth pound dried beef chopped fine, 1 tablespoonful 
minced onion, 1 cup stewed tomatoes, 2 tablespoonfuls grated 
cheese, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 4 raw and 2 hard boiled eggs, 
*4 teaspoon of salt, dash of cayenne. Put onion first in the 
melted butter, then tomatoes, beef, eggs, cheese and seasoning, 
each in quick succession. Stir like scrambled eggs. Serve on 
very flaky crackers or toast squares. Garnish with the hard 
boiled eggs, sliced. A dish for the gods. 

Henrietta G. Daniels, Downers Grove. 

CHICKEN FILLING FOR PATTIES. 

One pint of cream or milk, 1 tablespoon of flour, 1 pint 
cooked chicken cut in small pieces, 4 tablespoons chopped 
mushrooms, season. Put y 2 pint of cream to boil, mix other y 2 
pint of milk with flour, stir in boiling cream. When boiled up 
once add chicken. Mrs. William H. G. Logan, 

VEAL WITH ASPARAGUS TIPS. 

Two cups very tender veal, roast or stew ; 1 cup of cooked 
asparagus tips ; 1 tablespoon of butter, yolks of two hard boiled 
eggs, 1 half pint of milk, salt, white pepper. Rub the yolks and 
butter to a paste and heat it with the milk in chafing dish, stir- 
ring until thoroughly blended. Put in veal and asparagus with 
salt and pepper. Cook 5 minutes. Mrs. W. H. G. Logan. 

CELERIED OYSTERS. 

One pint oysters, 1-3 cup melted butter, ]/ 2 cup fine cracker 
crumbs, \ l / 2 cups of thin white sauce, 2 stalks celery chopped 
fine, salt and pepper, 4 slices of toast. Wash the oysters, drain 
and dry between towels. Season with salt and pepper, dip in 
melted butter, then in fine cracker crumbs. Cook in a hot but- 
tered chafing dish. Arrange on toast, pour white sauce and 
sprinkle with celery. 

White Sauce — Melt 2 tablespoonfuls butter, add two table- 
spoonsful flour, Y\ teaspoonful each of salt and pepper, then 
gradually one cup of scalded milk. Mrs. H. V. Wood. 

142 



A NICE LUNCHEON DISH. 

(Fine for the Charing Dish.) 
One tablespoon butter, 1 cup rich milk, 1 cup fine bread 
crumbs, 2 cups grated cheese (use Herkimer cream), salt- 
spoon dry mustard. Let butter melt, add milk, crumbs, cheese 
and salt and cayenne to taste, then the mustard. When all is 
blended well, add 2 eggs well beaten. Simmer y 2 moment, then 
serve. Henrietta G. Daniels, Downers Grove, III. 

ANOTHER. 

To serve poached eggs from the chafing dish, have water 
boiling in bottom pan of your chafing dish. Take the individual 
little pans (with handles and the holder) from a "patent tgg 
poacher," set in chafing dish, butter each dish, break in eggs, 
salt each and cover. Steam 2 minutes or as well done as liked. 
Original. H. G. Daniels. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS AND CHICKEN. 

Parboil a sweetbread and cut in Yi inch cubes. Reheat with 
equal parts of cold cooked chicken and 2 cups white sauce. 

Mrs. George Cary. 

EGGS WITH CHEESE. 
Two hard boiled eggs, y 2 cup of grated cheese, 1 tablespoon 
of butter, ]/ 2 cup of milk, 1 teaspoonful of flour, a little salt 
and pepper. Make a white sauce of butter, flour, milk, salt and 
pepper; then add to the sauce the grated cheese and eggs 
chopped fine. Serve on toast. Strong Herkimer, County or 
Edam cheese is best. Harriet M. Macomber. 



BEVERAGES, 

"And we'll tak a cup o kindness yet, 
For auld long syne." 

EGG NOGG. 
Beat the yolks of 5 eggs until very light and add 6 even 
tablespoonfuls sugar and beat thoroughly with the yolks. Add 
5 tablespoonfuls brandy and 1 pint of cream that has just been 
whipped, and, last of all, the beaten whites of 5 eggs. Stir 
lightly, just enough to mix well. Ida S. Downs. 

143 



CURRANT CORDIAL. 

Pour 1 quart best whiskey upon 1 pound bruised currants 
and 1 ounce white ginger root, bruised ; let it stand 24 hours, 
then strain through a flannel bag; add \ l / 2 pounds loaf sugar, 
and bottle when the sugar is dissolved. Excellent for a chill. 

Mrs. G. A. So den. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Four quarts red raspberries, enough vinegar to cover, let 
stand 24 hours, scald and strain. Add a pint of sugar to a pint 
of juice; boil 20 minutes and bottle; is then ready for use and 
will keep years. To 1 glass of water add a large spoonful. 

Lillie I. Lewis, 

RASPBERRY SHRUB. 

Soak 3 quarts of very ripe berries in 1 quart of pure cider 
vinegar for 24 hours ; strain and to the liquid add 3 quarts fresh 
berries ; let stand 12 hours, strain again, add 1 pound sugar 
to each pint of the liquid, boil 20 minutes. Bottle, and when 
using, put 1 tablespoonful into a glass of water. 

CIDER PUNCH. 

One cup sugar, ]/ 2 of water and 1 of sherry wine; slice in 2 
lemons ; stir until dissolved and add 1 quart of cider. 

HOP BEER. 

One handful of hops, 2y 2 gallons water, boil an hour, strain, 
add 1 pint of molasses. When milk warm add a cake of yeast. 
Let stand over night. Skim and pour it off from the yeast 
carefullv. Add 1 tablespoonful of wintergreen. Bottle. 

L. J. Lewis. 

GINGER BEER. 

Slice a lemon, bruise y 2 ounce ginger root, \y 2 pounds white 
sugar, 1 ounce tartaric acid, 2y 2 gallons of water boiled and 
poured over the ingredients ; when cool add a cake of yeast and 
let stand in a warm place for 12 hours ; bottle and tie down the 
corks. Ready for use in 2 days. 

144 



The North End Club 

Recommends the Following 
Advertisers to Your Patronage 



MS 



Between Chicago and 

Milwaukee 
on the Northwestern 

Railroad 
Facing Lake Michigan 




Chicago Office 

70 STATE STREET 

Tuesdays 2 to 4 

Telephone Central 500 



=?^^^3 



The Pennoyer Sanitarium 

KENOSHA, WIS. 

The ideal resting place combining country life, city comforts and the 
safety of the best medical skill and nursing. 

For detail information or booklet address the managers 

N. A. PENNOYER, M. D. G. F. ADAMS, M. D. 



"They Lace in Front" 



^ ^ 




^J 


Nr _, 




w *'■ 4 


! 


1 * 



i* 



Tel. Central 1597 



Pianos to Rent 



KELLY JOHN A. BRYANT 



Millinery 

and Gowns 


PIANO DEALER 


• 

1st Premium Wegman 


2577 EVANSTON 
AVENUE 


Haines Brothers 

Foster & Co. 

Favorite Bryant 

Armstrong Piano Co. 

Marshall & Wendel 




Second Hand Pianos of Differeni Makes 


The H. W. G. 


138-140 WABASH AVENUE 




NEAR MADISON STREET 


Also Agents for 




4 L'IRRES!STIBLE" 


Take Elevator to 2d Floor CHICAGO 



146 



Try this Recipe for 

MOTHERS OATS wafers 

Sift together 2 cups of flour ; 1 teaspoonful 
salt; 1 teaspoon baking powder, and 2 tea- 
spoons sugar. Add 1 cup of MOTHERS 
OATS. Mix in with the tips of the fingers 1 
tablespoon of lard and 2 tablespoons of butter, 
softened, but not melted. Moisten with very 
cold water until just soft enough to roll. Roll 
as thin as cardboard; cut in oblongs three 
inches by one inch. Bake in moderately hot 
oven about eight minutes. 

MOTHERS 0AT5 

are always good 

"The memory of quality remains Jong after the price is forgotten." 

THE GREAT WESTERN CEREAL CO. 



OUR MOTTO i A pleased customer is 
the best advertisement. 



ONLY FIRST-CLASS WORK 
DONE IN REPAIRING OF 

Watches, Clocks, 
Jewelry, Etc. 



Clocks Called for and Delivered 
(free of charge.) 

ALL WORK GUARANTEED 



E. J. SAMUELSON, 

Jeweler, 

1224 Bryn Mawr Avenue 



Trees, Shrubs and Soil. 
Floral Work of All Kinds. 



STOLLERY BROS. 

Florists 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL 
GROWERS OF 

Cut Flowers and Plants 



Green Houses and Store: 

2054 Southport Avenue 
Tel. Sheridan 1023 

Sales Room: 

with Flower Growers Co., 

60 Wabash Avenue 
Tel. Central 3067 

CHICAGO, ILL. 



147 



The Fair's Grocery 

A Grocery That Aims a»t Perfection. 



WE carry all the well-known brands. Have noth- 
ing to substitute as "just as good." If The 
purity of our food products is our special pride, and 
we patronize only those makers whose reliability is 
well established. 

The low prices for which our grocery is famous are 
possible because of the immense quantity of goods sold. 



Che Fair 



STATE, ADAMS and DEARBORN STS. 



CHICAGO 



Bowman Dairy Co* 




One of our Country Bottling Plants. 

Pure, Clearv. CROM healthy cows fed on 

M. tl , r .i Milk proper food only, bottled 

natural niiK and sealed in the country un . 

der the most fovorable conditions. Shipped 
in refrigerator cars. Placed in the hands of 
consumers in original packages. 

Lake View Office, 540-552 Berteao Ave. 

Phone, Lake View 1001 



M. COLE 

Go tuns 

Marshall Field Building 

Suite 822 CHICAGO 



Boulter and Company 

834 Marshall Field Building 
Shirt WaUU 



Exclusive Models 



CHICAGO 



148 



Cochran & McCluer 



Real Estate, Loans, 
Renting a.nd Insurance 



Edgewater and North Shore Property a Speciality 



107 DEARBORN STREET 



Branch Office: 
Phone Centrsvl 931 Evanston and Ca.talp&. Aves. 



J. L. COCHRAN. Pres. W. F. QUINLAN, Secy, and Treas. 



Edgewater Coal Co. 



Dealers in 



Anthracite and Bituminous Coal 



Yards: Main Office: 

2612 Evanston Avenue 45=107 Dearborn Street 

Phone Lake View 135 Phone Central 931 



149 



We announce the successful estab- 
lishment in our store of a fresh meat 
department. You will find in this 
market perfection of service and a 
variety of delicious meats so priced as 
to claim your constant patronage. 
Investigation is respectfully invited. 

Rothschild 6 Company 

State and Van Buren Sts. 



yoxi shoxild rtde 
on the 

Northwestern Elevated 
Railroad 



t5o be freQ from the 
'Dust and 'Dirt of the Streets 

Well-Lighted 
Clean, Attractive Cars 



Ph. P. Schiesswohl 



Albert U. Peterson 



SCHIESSWOHL 
& PETERSON 

Choice Meats and 
High Gra.de Groceries 

41-43 Evanston Ave. 

Tel. Lake View 16 
Tel. Lake View 96 



EDGEWATER 
1204-6 Bryn Mawr Ave. 
Tel. Lake View 220 



150 



Don't let anyone tell you that 
ordinary house paint or inside 
floor paint is "good enough" 
for porches, verandas, steps, etc. 

Watson's 
Porch Floor Paint 

IS THE ONLY THING TO USE 
ITS MADE IN FIVE SHADES 


Uhe 

Leavenworth Co. 

(Not Inc.) 

41 State St., Chicago 

rianufacture the finest Vanilla Extract on 
the market; exquisite in flavor and from 
the true Vanilla Bean 

The Leavenworth Baking Powder 

has proven very satistacfory, the 
quality leaves nothing to be desired. 
It is free from alum, phosphates 
and all cheapening admixtures. It 
is Pure Cream of Tartar and Soda. 

The Leavenworth Liquid Silver Polish 

is the most convenient and effective. 
It contains no harmful ingredient. 

The Alexandra Coffee 

is the best Coffee on the market 
irrespective of price. It is pract- 
ically a 40-cent Coffee for 25 cents. 
"Queen of all Coffees" 


Put up in Gallons, Half-Gallons a.nd Quarts 


GEO. E. WATSON CO. 

Paint and Color Makers 

108 La,ke Street CHICAGO 
Send for Sample Card 


Miss B. Lichtenstein 

1244 Bryn Mawr Ave. 

 also 

1218 Argyle Avenue 


EdgewaJer Dairy 

Distributer of 

PURE MILK 
a,nd CREAM 


Bakery, Confectionery, 
Delicatessen 

Orders taken for Ice Cream 
Lowney's Box Candies 

We carry a complete stock of assorted 
Favors, Cake Laces and Almond 
Cups, Paper Cases and Paper Nap- 
kins, D'oyleys,Candles,Candle Holders 


Fresh Buttermilk Cottage Cheese 
Try Our XX Whipping Cream 

Phone 1183 Irving 916 EDGEWATER PLACE 


Hoping to be favored with your patronage 



151 



Edgewater Grocery 
Company 

JAMES MCMANUS 

Proprietor 



1246 Bryn Mawr Ave, 



Phone, Lake View 104 



CHICAGO 



Phone, Lake View 667 



FRANK H. AHLBORN 



Prescription Druggist 



1202 Bryn Mawr Ave, 



Cor, Evanston Ave. CHICAGO 



BAIRD & WARNER 

Evanston and Wilson Avenues 

(Adjoining "L" Terminal Station) 

REAL ESTATE MORTGAGE LOANS 
RENTING INSURANCE 

Headquarters for 

North Shore Property 



C, W, FOGG 

Manager 



Lake View 169 and 



~ . « j Lake View 169 

1 elephones \ Sheridan « 1661 



MAIN OFFICE * 90 LA SALLE STREET 



152 



GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY PURE 



CHOCOLAT- MENIER 

The Celebrated French Vanilla Chocolate 

Used the world over for Breakfast and Soirees instead of 

Tea or Coffee. 

CACAO-MENIER 

Menier's Breakfast Essence of Cocoa. 



Unites in a perfect 
form all qualities 

of a healthy 

and strengthening 

food. 



Menier's 




SUPERFINE 



It is easily digested 
and is specially bene- 
ficial to people 
suffering from 
dyspepsia and weak 
nerves. 



Chocolates 



and Bon-Bons. 

Annual sales exceed 36,000,000 pounds. 
Grand Prix— Highest Award- -St. Louis 1904. 

If not acquainted with manner of preparing Menier's Chocolate 

and Cocoa, write to 



MENIER, 



250 W. 27th STREET, NEW YORK, or 
66 WABASH AVENUE, CHICAGO. 



Tt»/\ M/\*%4-U EnrJ PI nk Recommends Menier's Premium Chocolate, 
Il6 llOriM LRU l/IUD "Blue Label" unsweetened for all cooking 



purposes. 



Recommends Menier's Vaniila Chocolate, "Yellow Label" sweetened for all 
drinking purposes. 



153 



Pbone //6/ Irving 

PETER SIEG'L 

Late of Schmidt & Sieg'l 

Ladies' Tailor 



Phone Graceland 693 



III 



1878 EvanstonAve. CHICAGO 



North Shore Dye Works 



Dyeing, Scouring, 
Chemical Cleaning 



French Dry Cleaning 

RICHARD WAGNER, 

Proprietor 

1880 Evanston Ave., n T v w U e on 



CHICAGO 



Orders by mail or express promptly attended 
to. Goods called for and delivered 



Telephone Lake View 525 



J. A. SCHIESSWOHL 



Market and Groceries 




2178-80 Evanston Avenue 



CHICAGO 



154 



Peterson's Trees 

Well ki\owi\ 8Li\d home grown 

Ornamental Trees, Flowering Shrubs, 

Climbing Vines, Hardy Fruits and 

Herbaceous Plants for Immediate Effect 



Nursery just west of EdgeweJer. GIVE VS A TRIAL 



We give advice regarding the location of stock 
purchased of us 



City Office; 
108 La Salle Street 

/lain 4162 
Automatic 5462 



Phones j 



PETERSON NURSERY 
Lincoln and Peterson Avenues 

Phone Lake View 103 



Phone 1794 Graceland 



High Grade Distemper Tinting 

HERMAN KE AN & CO. 

Decorating and Painting 
Interior Finish 



a: 



1872 Evanston Avenue 



Phone Irving 1771 



Kalbas Dairy Co. 



Dealers in 



Pure Milk, Cream 
and Butter 



610=612 Melrose St. 



Near Wiison Ave. 



CHICAGO CHICAGO 



ILLINOIS 



155 



Vhont Irving 1152 



Elizabeth S, Smith 

Exclusive Designs in 

Millinery , , * , 



Near Wilson 



1926 Eranston Are. 



Manicuring Shampooing 

Facial Massage 

Blemishes of 
Skin and Complexion Removed 

By Electricity or X-Ray 



Engagements by Phone 
Call Irving 1152-874 

Sole Agent for Mrs. R. W. Allen's Toilet Goods 

JENNIE NEELY 

Parlor: 

1926 Evanston Ave. 

Near Wilson 



L.KGROPP Pres 
H.KOROPP Secy&Treas 




PHONE 

LAKE VIEW 589. 



ARTISTIC 

FLORAL I 

DESIGNERS 



GREENHOUSES *»» 
&RANCH OFFICE 
252 W. RAVENSWOOD PARR AVE." 



MAIN OFFICE and 
GREENHOUSES 
1860-1870 EVANSTON AVE. 



156 



Regilding Framing 




Manufacturing 




G. U. GAIRING 


Fine Hand Work 


jfine Hrts 


Lincoln Hand Laundry 




1886 Evanston Avenue 


Stores and Factory: 

1720=22 North Clark Street 

CHICAGO, ILL. 
Phone Lake View 1086 


Phone Sheridan 1663 


Branch Store 

801 Dempster Street she™!"™. 

EVANSTON, ILLINOIS 
Telephone 770 





Branch Store: 

510=512 North Clark Street 

Phone North 588 



803 Dempster Street 

EVANSTON, ILLINOIS 

Phone 770 Evanston 




vn&MJMr.arn 



THE GEO.WITTBOLD C0MR\NY1 



^m^M^ BBam2 



-^ s aaa; 



DECORATING 



A PLACE OF CULTURE 



FLOWE 





GARDENING 



1657-1659 BUCKINGHAM PLACE 

CHICAGO. 

Telephone Lake View 557 and 558 



Growers of 
TROPICAL PLANTS 



Greenhouses and Nursery 
EDGEBR0OK, ILLINOIS 

Phone Irving Park 784 



157 



GEORGE LILL, President W. W. LILL, Vice Prest. GEO. H. LILL, Sec'y & Treas. 



George Lill Coal Co 

Office : 

39 to 67 Chester Street 

Cor. Clybourn and Ashland Aves. 

CHICAGO 

POCAHONTAS COAL 



Telephone North 1880 

Private Exchange All Departments 



Dock and Railyards: 

Clybourn and Ashland Aves 



Edgewater Yards: 2134 Evanston Ave. 


Phone North 1527 


Telephone 6 JO 


Orders Called for and 
Delivered Same Day 




A. W. POPP 


North Shore 


..GROCER.. 


Creamery 


1425 Diversey Boulevard 

Cor. Best Ave. 

CHICAGO, ILL. 

Our Specialty: 


Butter and Eggs, Tea and Coffee 

Cottage Cheese, Fresh 

Dressed Poultry 

Delivered in Edgewater and Argyle Pa.rk 

Tuesday and Friday 


Teas, Coffees, Butter and Eggs 


805 Dempster Street. EVANSTON 



158 



'Retail 



PITKIN ® BROOKS 



Corner 
Lakje and 
Stale Si j. 



IRicb Cut (Blase 




The Dinner cannot be Well Served 
without 

Pretty Table China. 



We serve our patrons from Haviland, Guerin, 

Minton, Cauldon, Wedgwood and the German 

Factories, and 

Our Trices are 'Reasonable 



Tel. Graceiand 1831 



All Our Milk is Filtered 



If Quality is Desired Patronize 



P. MUNO 



J. H. MUNO 



STAPLES DAIRY CO. Sheridan Drive Club 

Livery and 
Boarding: Stable 



Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 

PUR.E 

Milk and Cream 

BOTTLED MILK 

A Specialty 

Rose Brand Cr eamery Butter 

DEPOT 

2792 and 2794 N. Robey St. 



All Orders will 
Receive Prompt Attention 



CHICAGO 



MUNO BROS. 



Carriage Ca.ll 
Telephone, La^ke View 116 



2614-16 Ridge Ave. Eva S r A«. 



159 



Phone Douglas 888 



The Home 
Delicacies Association 



Is prepared to receive 
orders in the various 
branches of society 
catering and to supply 
new and exclusive ideas 
in Menus and Table 
Appointments for all 
varieties of SOCIAL 
FUNCTIONS 



2970 Groveland Avenue 

CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 



Where does it go? 

Get one of our 

Family Expense Books 

25 and 50 cents each 



They keep the family happy by 
showing where the money goes 



STEVENS, MALONEY <%L CO. 

Stationers and Printers 
143 LaSalle St.. Chicago 



AIG. SAEHN. Pres. 



R NOELCW. Sec.Trtas. 



North Shore 
Safe Deposit Co. 

August Saehn & Company 

2566-48 Evanston Are. 

Safety Deposit Vaults, Insurance 
Savings Deposits 

Thone LaK* V/et» 985 

Boxes, $3.00 per ye&j and upward. 
3 per cent per aoinum on Savings Deposits 



Member of Chicago 

Real Estate 

Board 



Loans made on Good 

Real Estate 

Securin 



W. J. Lukens 

Heal Estate 
and Insurance 



1218 Chcvmber of Commerce 
CHICAGO 



Telephone Main 3595 



Lake View and North Shore Property 
a Specialty 



160 



Established i 864 



Phone North 1348 



E. R. ScKlick 

"Dealer in fine domestic 
and imported 

Kitchen Utensils and 
Housefurnishing Goods 




437 North Clark Street, Chicago, 111. 



Artistic Hanging of Lambrequins and 
Laces. Shades, Rods, Poles, etc. Spring 
Beds. Mattresses, Slip Covers and Carpets 
to order and repaired. 



Herm.Wunderlich 

\7pholsterer 
and "Decorator 

Estimates on request 



1794 North Halsted Street 
opp. Newport Ave. 

CHICAGO 



Phone 
Graceland 635 



• For 12 years with 
MARSHALL FIELD!* CO- 



Chicken, Lobster and Shrimp Salads made 
to order. j 

Special Rates for Parties, 
Weddings, etc. 



Garben® GrollCo. 

Confectionery 

Fancy Bakery 
Ice Creams arid Cafe 



Phone North 396 
Phone. North 393 



176 North Clark Street, Chicago, III. 



Alston's 

Veranda Lac 

A Paint prepared especially 
for Porch Furniture, Lawn 
Swings, Seats, etc. Two • 
Permanent, Quick - Drying 
Shades 

Green and Vermilion 

The Alston MYf'g Co. 

CHICAGO, ILL. 

Crushers of Flaxseed and Manufacturers of 
all grades of Paint and Dry Colors. 



161 



Our Great Grocery 

Occupies the Entire Sixth Floor 
EVERYTHING FRESH, PURE AND CLEAN 



Complete Lines of the 
CHOICEST STAPLE AND FANCY 

GROCERIES 

FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 

DELICATESSEN 

SMOKED MEATS 

FRESH MEATS, Etc, Etc, 



PRICES ARE ALWAYS LOWEST HERE 

BOSTON STORE 



STATE and 

MADISON 



Telephone, 2181 Central 



7 A.M. 10 7:30 P.M. 



THE 

Mrs, Clark Co. 

LVNCH ROOM 



For 
LADIES and GENTLEMEN 



BREAKFAST 



DINNER 



SUPPER 



Home Cooking and Catering 



jSHSL 153 Michigan Ave. 



R. S. Critchell Bavier C. MUJer Chas. P. Whitney 
Kossuth Marks Lyman M, Drake Frank Barbour 



CRITCHELL 
MILLER 

WHITNEY & 
BARBOUR 

Fire Insurance 



ESTABLISHED 1868 



138 to 144 La Salle St, CHICAGO 



162 



PARIS NEW YORK ST. GATT 

Styer Lace & Drapery 
Company 

Home Furnishers and Decorators 
Importers and Makers 

Real Lace Curtains and Draperies 

Special Furniture 
and Hand Tufted Rugs to order 

175^ Michigan Ave. 

Railway Exchange Building 



Phone Harrison 3509 



CHICAGO 



Phone Central 5842 



T5he 



Cleverly Corset 

Made to Order 



Insuring to our patrons all the 
latest effects in figure required in 
the fitting of gowns. Endorsed by 
Chicago's Leading Dressmakers 

A. M. CLEVERLY 

1022 Masonic Temple CHICAGO 



Chicago Office: 

157 W. Washington St. 




F-M 



She 

Household 

JVecessity 





JAP'A'LAC stains and varnishes by one 
application. It is the most durable finish on 
the market for floors, all kinds of interior wood 
work, etc., where extreme durability is required. 

It is a great reviver of old wood work, 
furniture, etc. , as it covers up all mars, scratches 
or disfigurements, producing a brilliant and 
beautiful finish and can be successfully applied 
by an inexperienced person. It is not affected 
by hot or cold water, nor by soap and water, 
and does not mar white or show heel marks 
when used on floors. The colors are as follows* 

Oak, Walnut, Mahogany, Cherry, Malachite 
Green, Ox^Blood Red, Brilliant Black, Dead 
Black, Natural or Clear, Gloss White, Flat 
White, Ground and Empire Blue. 

Manufactured only by 

The Glidden Varnish Co. 

163 Cleveland Ohio 



nm 



STATED WASHINGTON 5TS 



Our Pure Food Departments occupy the entire 
Fifth Floor, 



We supply the tables of the discerning and the 
critical. 



Our hygienic restaurant, modern dairy, perfect 
meat market, and high grade bakery are objects 
of interest to every woman. 



Telephone, North 254 



Burton F. White 



CATERER. 

567 North Clark Street 

Near Schiller 

Most Careful and Artistic Service 
in Chicago for 

WEDDINGS 

RECEPTIONS 

CHILDREN'S PARTIES 

DELICIOUS 

Ice Creams, Ices and Cakes 

for family orders 
Catalogue upon Request 



PRICE LIST 

of 



"Carlota" Coffee 



3-Pound Can 

5-Ponnd Can 

10-Pound Can 

25-Pound Can 

50-Pound Can 



$ 1.00 
1.65 

3.25 

8.00 

15.00 



"Carlota" Coffee is put up in 
sealed tin cans — we grow every 
pound of coffee sold under the 
name "Carlota." 



CaLietal "CARLOTA" Co. 

Order in person, by mail or of our wagon salesman 
Telephone, Central JJ90 

Office, Room 310 - - 42 RIVER STREET 



164 



OLGA GOLDZIER 

Maker of Gowns 


Randolph Market ®. 
Grocery 




52 ©end 54 State St. 


Tailor- Made Gowns a 


* 


Specialty 


Finest Store of its 
kind in Illinois. 




Complete line of 
Groceries, Wines, 


Suite 908 Masonic Temple 


Liquors, Meats, 
Butter and Delica- 


Telephone Market 1236 

CHICAGO 


cies. Prompt de- 
livery to all parts 
of the city. 




E,H)*ry Hay ij a 
Children's "Day at 



'She Chicago 
Children's 
Store 

Everything that Infants 
and Children wear from 
Head to Foot including 
many Novelties not 
found elsewhere. 

A. STARR BEST 

107 State St 
CHICAGO 

Telephone 4070 Central 



165 



MILWAUKEE 




Ravinia 
Park 




BOCK^ELLER 



A pla.ce of recreation 
and entertainment for 
people of culture and 
refinement. <3£ X 




Concerts 

Ei*Oery ^/tfternoon and Extening 

Entrance from Sheridan Road and Green Bay Road 

for Automobiles and Carriages 

Located at 

HIGHLAND PARK 

Along the Chicago & Milwaukee Electric Railroad 



166 



