
'I I 
. I, 

III 

■il 

1 ll' 

ll'l >' ll 
,1, llll 

p I I 

.'iMiirii 



TI'iV 

I', 

ll' ll,l' 



■,•'< 








LIBRARY OF THE 
NEW YORK STATE COLLEGE 
OF HOME ECONOMICS 

CORNELL UNIVERSITY 
ITHACA, NEW YORK 




Gift Of 

Yvonne de Treville 




1 Cornell University 
j Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003584459 



FIFTY CHOICE 
RECIPES FOR 
SPANISH AND 
MEXICAN DISHES 




COPYRIGHTED 190S BY H. S. LOURY 
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 



Chicken Cliili 

CUT up two chickens, stew, and when 
nearly done add a little parsley and two 
onions. Take half pound dried chili 
peppers, remove seeds and pour on boiling 
water. Steam fifteen minutes; pour off water 
and rub through sieve; add this to the chick- 
en; let cook half hour. Add butter size of an 
egg, salt and thicken with flour. This is de- 
licious served with rice. 



Mexican Cliili Stew 

TOUR medium-sized potatoes, four large 
tomatoes, one good-sized onion. Cut all 
in small pieces; two pounds of lean beef 
cut in dice. Put beef in pot with two table- 
spoonfuls of heated butter and the onion, and 
stew half hour; then add rest of vegetables 
with one quart of hot water, one tablespoonful 
of chili powder and three of Worcestershire 
sauce; salt and pepper to taste with one clove 
of garlic; cook on slow fire until thoroughly 
done. 



Spanisn Beef 

CWO pounds of round steak cut into dice; 
put in saucepan and brown in its own 
fat; add butter if needed; two chopped 
onions browned, one can of tomatoes, strained; 
salt and pepper to taste. Mix all together; 
add water. Cook until meat is tender and 
thicken with a little flour. 



Chill con Carne— No. 1 

CAKE a good-sized piece of soup meat (not 
a soup bone), boil until thoroughly ten- 
der; take out the water, mince very fine; 
have ready two good-sized onions, also minced 
fine. Put into a skillet a tablespoonful of 
butter, and after having coated the meat with 
flour, turn same with the onions into the skillet 
and brown. Add to it the water in which the 
meat was boiled, and one teacupful of bayou 
beans that have been previously boiled done; 
boil slowly for about three hours. Just before 
taking from the fire, add salt to taste and a 
heaping tablespoonful of chili powder or suf- 
ficient to make it hot; must be rich and hot 
with pepper to make it good. 



Cnili con Carne— No. 2 

CO ONE pound of chopped beef add two 
small onions, two potatoes and half can 
tomatoes. Cover with boiling water; 
season with salt and one tablespoonful chili 
powder. Cook slowly for one hour and thick- 
en with flour and water. 



Cnili con Carne— No. 3 

CAKE two poimds chopped beef; cover 
with boiling water, add one can toma- 
toes, salt, butter size of egg, and table- 
spoonful chili powder; cook slowly for two 
hours; thicken with flour mixed with cold 
water. 



Chill con Carne — No. 4 

PLACE in covered stew pan two pounds 
beef, one-quarter pound suet chopped 
fine; steam until tender. Remove seeds 
and veins from eight red chiU peppers, boil 
soft and rub through sieve. Add to meat 
with also one teaspoonful lemon juice. Sim- 
mer for one hour in tightly covered kettle. 



Spanisn Ste^v— No. 1 

REMOVE the seeds from one dozen large 
chili peppers; boil until tender; then 
scrape the chili, throwing away the skins; 
add three fried sliced onions, three tomatoes, 
a little water, and salt to taste, and teaspoon- 
ful of sugar. Rub through a sieve and then 
add two pounds of round steak, cut in small 
pieces, which has been stewed in very little 
water until tender; let all simmer slowly for 
twenty minutes. Thicken with flour and 
cream. 



Spanisn Stew— No. 2 

BROWN two sliced onions and one and a 
half pounds chopped beef in two table- 
spoonfuls of butter; then add five to- 
matoes, two or three carrots, one or two seeded 
red peppers, cut fine; salt to taste one pint 
soup stock. Cook slowly and thicken with a 
little flour and butter rubbed together. 



Spanish Stew— No. 3 

^TOOK some nice young peas in plenty of 
^^ water. Fry lamb chops a delicate 
^"^ brown; remove the chops and thicken 
the gravy with flour; poiir the peas and the 
water in which they were boiled into the fry- 
ing pan, and, when thickened, add the chops; 
cover and let simmer for ten minutes, adding 
salt, pepper and a little Worcestershire sauce. 



Spanish Stew— No. 4 

ONE tablespoonful of washed rice; table- 
spoonful of butter; fry to a rich, golden 
brown, stirring constantly. Cut up one 
onion, two potatoes, foiir peeled tomatoes; 
boil three red peppers soft, scrape the pulp 
from the inside with a knife; add one tea- 
spoonful salt; place all in a covered stew pan; 
cook one hour, slowly. 



Cnicken Stew (Spamst Style) 

TRY in deep saucepan in two tablespoon- 
fuls of best olive oil, one onion, chopped 
fine, one clove garlic; season to taste and 
enough flour to brown; add one can tomatoes, 
with a little sugar to taste. Put in good-sized 
chicken, cut in pieces, and simmer until done. 



Mexican Meat Balls 

ONE pound of pork, one pound of beef, 
chopped fine; a third as much bread as 
meat, one egg, one small onion, chopped 
fine; salt and pepper to taste; tablespoonful 
of chili powder. Put all into a pan with the 
beaten egg and mix thoroughly; roll into 
small balls. Cook in a sauce which has been 
made as follows: One quart of tomatoes, one 
chopped onion, one tablespoonful of chili pow- 
der; salt and pepper to taste. Place the 
meat balls in the sauce, boil gently for about 
an hour. Thicken the sauce with a little 
flour, and pour over meat. 



Spanisn Meat Hash 

CHOP fine cold meat — ^beef, lamb or veal 
— about one pint; chop one medium- 
sized onion; mix with meat; season with 
salt. Put in baking pan; put over top tea- 
cupful of stewed tomatoes; sprinkle with 
Spanish pepper and a dash of cayenne pepper. 
Bake until brown. 



Mexican Round Steak 

BAKE in oven for half hour a two-pound 
sUce of the tender side of round steak, 
in half -pint of water, basting often; sea- 
son with salt and pepper; take from oven, 
cover top of meat with finely chopped onion; 
cook again for fifteen minutes, then add a 
covering of tomatoes, cut fine. Cook a quar- 
ter of an hour, then cover with grated cheese; 
put back in oven until cheese melts. This 
must be cooked in moderate oven. The meat 
will be very tender, and have a delicious gravy. 



Cnicken Xamales 

CHIS recipe will require a "Metata," which 
can be purchased at any Spanish store. 
Boil in water with half cup of lime, 
two quarts of yellow, dried com. When well 
cooked, wash thoroughly, then grind on the 
"Metata" three times, until very fine. Boil 
two medium-sized chickens until quite tender; 
cool and cut in small pieces. Mix with corn 
enough of the water in which the chickens 
were cooked to make a soft dough, and add 
two small cups of lard; season with salt and 
knead well. Then take three red chiU pep- 
pers, remove seeds and roast in oven for a few 
minutes; take out, place in tepid water, then 
grind on the "Metata" several times, with 
two cloves of garlic. In a saucepan put table- 
spoonful of lard; when hot drop in one chop- 
ped onion and tablespoonful of flour; let cook 
a minute, then add the chili, then cut the 
chicken, one cupful each of seeded raisins and 
stoned olives, and salt and pepper to taste; 
let come to boil, take from stove and cool. 

Have some dry com husks, well soaked for 
several hours in cold water; shake them well 
and spread a thin layer of the dough on the 
half of each leaf; then put a spoonful of the 
stew on the prepared leaf, and cover with the 
prepared leaves; tie the ends with strings 
made of the leaves. When the tamales are 
finished, place them in a large pot with a 
little boiling water, and boil gently for one 
hour. Any other meat can be used. 



Beef 1 amales 

BOIL one pound of beef and pour over it 
some hot beef fat. Scald thoroughly one 
quart of com meal, adding one teaspoon- 
ful of salt and a tablespoonful of lard. Cut 
off the upper end of com shucks, and put to 
boil in cold water; let scalded meal and shucks 
cool off; chop the beef fine and season to taste 
Avith the salt and chili powder. Put a thin 
layer of meal on shucks (leaving shuck enough 
to turn ends and sides over), then put a small 
quantity of meat in center. Put a few shucks 
in the bottom of the pot to prevent scorching, 
and pack in the tamales, placing a weight on 
top. Cover with boiling water, adding one 
tablespoonful each of lard and chili powder. 



£ncniladas 

SPLIT open and remove seeds and veins of 
two dozen chili peppers. Soak in cold 
water about two hours; throw off water, 
cover with fresh and simmer on back of stove 
for one hour; then boil rapidly for fifteen min- 
utes. Remove from fire and with dull knife 
scrape the pulp from the skins, which should 
be about a quarter inch thick. Now chop a 
large onion very fine and fry a delicate brown 
in butter; then into same pan brown two 
spoonfuls of flour, and add the chili pulp, 
onion and cup each of strained tomato juice 
and the water in which the chilis were boiled; 
simmer until consistency of thick cream; sea- 
son with salt. To prepare the tortillas or 
pancakes, take one quart flour, a large table- 
spoonful of lard; salt and moisten with water, 
as for biscuits. Take piece of dough size of 
egg and roll out the size of a breakfast plate. 
They can be baked on top of stove or by fry- 
ing in deep fat, but not brown, and the fat 
must not be as hot as for doughnuts. This 
will make about a dozen tortillas. Have 
ready one pound grated cheese, one quart of 
stoned olives or pimolas, some finely chopped 
onion, fried lightly, one pound of stoned 
raisins, three hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine. 
Dip the tortillas in the chih sauce (which must 
be hot), one at a time; place on a hot plate 
in which it is to be served; on one-half put a 
little of the raisins, olives, cheese, egg, and 
pour a spoonful of the sauce over it and fold 
over the other half. Pour over remaining 
sauce and sprinkle grated cheese over all. 



Spanisn Fisn Stew 

TRY in bottom of large granite saucepan 
one good-sized onion, cut in thin slices, 
in two tablespoonfuls olive oil, butter or 
bacon fat; fry a light brown; add one cup 
tomato and one cup water and cook twenty 
minutes. Have two pounds sea bass or rock 
cod skinned and cut in four pieces; put in 
saucepan and, if necessary, add boiling water 
until sauce nearly covers fish. Season with 
salt and pepper, one good pinch of saffron and 
one tablespoonful of origano. Let simmer 
twenty minutes or until fish is done. Thicken 
sauce with flour made smooth with water; 
sprinkle the fish with finely minced parsley, 
and serve on dish with small pieces of toast. 
The origano or Mexican wild marjoram can be 
purchased at groceries where Spanish people 
trade, and saffron can be bought at drug 
stores. Green peppers (two), cut fine and 
cooked with the tomato, is an improvement. 



Tenderloin of Sole (Spanisli) 

fOUR ripe tomatoes or one-half can, two 
onions, sliced and fried a light brown, 
two chili peppers, chopped fine, one-half 
pound of salt pork, cut in small pieces and 
fried, a pinch of salt; cook all together until 
tender, then thicken with a teaspoonful of 
cornstarch, and set aside to cool while pre- 
paring the fish. Put one and one-half table- 
spoonfuls of good olive oil into a frying pan; 
when hot, put in fish, which has been rolled 
in com meal; fry a nice brown. Put fish in 
center of dish and pour sauce over it. Serve 
garnished with parsley and sliced lemons or 
limes. 



Snrimp (Creole) 

ONE tablespoonful of butter in a sauce- 
pan; add a small onion, chopped fine; 
cook until onion is done; then add one- 
third of a can of tomatoes; cook this fifteen 
minutes; add a can of shrimps, a cup of sweet 
milk, thickened with flour, one teaspoonful of 
salt, one-fourth spoon of cayenne pepper, a 
dash of black pepper. Take off when boiled 
and turn over toasted bread. Serve on hot 
plates. 



Spanisn xTamburg Soup 

PUT one pound of round steak through a 
meat chopper; with the fingers form into 
balls the size of marbles; then fry one 
good-sized onion in suet, a golden brown; add 
teacupful of tomatoes, two green chili peppers 
(seeds removed), and about a quart of water; 
when boiling, add the meat balls; let simmer 
for one-half hour, then add two small pota- 
toes, cut into dice; boil another half hour or 
until potatoes are done; season with salt and 
pepper. Serve with crackers. 



Spanisn Eggs ~ No. 1 

PLUNGE into hot fat, for two minutes, 
three large, green peppers; remove with 
a coarse, dry towel the skin of each; then 
cut into halves, lengthwise, and .take out 
seeds. Have a frying pan on fire with two 
tablespoonfuls olive oil. Cut six very thin 
slices raw ham; place in pan, add the peppers 
and cook gently for fifteen minutes. Prepare 
six pieces of dry toast; put them on a hot 
platter; put a slice of ham on each piece of 
toast, then half a pepper over the ham; fry 
six eggs in clarified butter and gently place 
one on each pepper. 



Spanisk Eggs~No. 2 

COOK to a smooth paste one-third cup of 
stale bread crumbs in ^ third cup of 
milk; mix with one cup of cooked ham 
chopped fine; add about one-half teaspoonful 
of mixed mustard, cayenne pepper and one 
raw egg; mix thoroughly. Remove shells 
from hard-boiled eggs, and cover- with mix- 
ture; fry in hot fat two minutes; cut length- 
wise and garnish with parsley. Can be served 
hot or cold. 



6aked Green Peppers~"No. 1 

TRY slowly in skillet with two small slices 
of bacon, butter, one onion, one red pep- 
per and two green peppers, chopped very 
fine. When onion is tender, add three toma- 
toes or same quantity of canned tomatoes; 
cook five minutes. Wash and boil tender one 
cup of rice, and add to the above. Season 
with salt and red pepper. Remove seeds 
from half dozen bull-nosed green peppers, and 
stuff with mixture; put in baking dish, with 
a small piece of butter on each pepper; bake 
until tender. 



Stuffed. Green Peppers— No. 2 

REMOVE seeds from six large green pep- 
pers; stew pound of steak with one small 
onion until thoroughly done, and about 
half cup of stock of the meat; put meat and 
stock in chopping bowl with one tomato, half 
onion, tablespoonful butter, half cup raisins, 
one hard-boiled egg; red pepper and salt to 
taste. Chop fine and stuff the peppers and 
fry in butter until brown on all sides. These 
can be eaten hot or cold. 



Stuffed Green Peppers— No. 3 

CUT off stems and remove seeds from eight 
bull peppers; chop fine scraps of cold 
beef or pork, one good-sized onion; add 
some of the pepper seeds, and some bread 
previously moistened with hot water, butter, 
salt and pepper; fill peppers and bake in oven 
till tender. 



Stuffed Green Peppers— No. 4 

eOOK tender one cup rice; put in skillet 
one slice raw bacon, chopped fine, one 
tablespoonful chopped onion, one tea- 
spoonful butter; let fry, but not brown; add 
teaspoonful curry powder, one cup stock and 
heaping spoonful of the cooked rice for each 
pepper. Mix all together and stuff peppers, 
which have previously had the seeds removed, 
and plunged in boiling water for ten minutes. 
Bake in oven and serve with tomato sauce. 



Fri]oleS (Spanisk Beans) 

PUT one pint of pink beans to soak over 
night, then put them on to boil in salted 
water until tender. While they are cook- 
ing, fry two good-sized onions in bacon fat; 
add one-half can tomatoes, about six or eight 
red chili peppers that have been cleaned and 
part of the veins removed; unless one likes 
them very "hot," put them on in water and 
let boil a few minutes; then scrape off the red, 
jelly-like chiU from the tough skin, and add 
with the onions and tomatoes to the beans. 
Let all boil several hours until very soft, stir- 
ring frequently to prevent burning. 



Spanisn Beans 



77 1 ASH one pint of Spanish beans in sev- 
\jlM eral waters, place on the fire in cold 
^^^ water and allow them to cook half 
hour; drain off this water and cook them an- 
other half hour; add more fresh water, drain 
once more, then put them on again, adding 
fresh water, several slices of fat bacon, and 
salt to taste. After cooking one hour, add 
one-third of a pint of canned tomatoes, one 
large onion, sliced fine, and one red pepper, 
chopped, and let boil until well done. 



Spanisn Bakeoi Beans 

flFTER thoroughly soaking over night one 
heaping pint of beans, fry one finely cut 
onion in butter or olive oil until brown; 
add one can of tomatoes, the soft insides of 
four large chih peppers or cayenne to taste; 
salt to taste; mix all with beans and bake four 
hours in moderate oven. Add small piece of 
salt pork or bacon if desired. 



Spanisk String Beans 

CHOP one medium-sized onion very fine. 
Fry in one tablespoonful lard; add one- 
half can of tomatoes; cook a little. 
Season with chih pepper, salt and a little sugar 
to counteract acidity of tomatoes. Prepare 
one and one-half pounds of string beans; put 
them with the tomatoes and onions; cook for 
fifteen minutes, then add enough water so the 
beans can boil. Cook until the beans are ten- 
der and the water is boiled down. 



Mexican String Beans 

eUT fine one red pepper, one onion; fry 
in olive oil until brown; add four toma- 
toes, chopped, three teaspoonf uls of flour, 
salt and pepper to taste; cut in small pieces 
two pounds of string beans; mix all together 
with quart of cold water and cook until well 
done. Add water if needed. 



Spanisn Spagnetti 



ONE pound of round steak and two onions, 
chopped fine; cook with a good-sized 
piece of butter in skillet; add a half can 
of tomatoes; season with salt and chili pep- 
per. Add one quarter pound of cheese, cut 
fine or grated. When thoroughly cooked, add 
half pound of spaghetti, which has been pre- 
viously boiled; stir all together and serve. 



Spanish Asparagus 



DIVIDE two bunches of asparagus into six 
bunches; wash thoroughly and cover 
with boiling water; cook half hour. For 
each bunch add one teaspoonful of salt and 
cook for a few minutes longer; place in a skil- 
let two tablespoonfuls of butter, one finely-cut 
onion, five or six pepper corns, one bay leaf; 
cook until tender without browning; add two 
cups of chicken or veal broth, a little nutmeg, 
and two tablespoonfuls of flour; cook sauce 
slowly for quarter of an hour; after sauce is 
strained, add, slowly, the beaten yolk of two 
eggs, a little lemon juice and a tablespoonful 
of butter; put on stove where it will not boil. 
Serve asparagus on toast; sauce in separate 
dish. 



Spanisk Stuffed Onions 

SCOOP out centers of six medium-sized on- 
ions; parboil them for three minutes, 
then place upside down on cloth to drain; 
stuff with forcemeat of sausage or bacon, 
mixed with heart of onions, minced fine, bread 
crumbs, pepper, salt, mace and tablespoonful 
of cream; simmer in oven for an hour, basting 
often with melted butter. When done, place 
carefully on platter without breaking; add to 
gravy in baking pan the juice of half lemon, 
four tablespoonfuls of cream, and a little 
browned flour; boil up and pour over onions. 



Spanisn Onions 

PUT two pounds Spanish onions in suffi- 
cient boiling water to cover them, with 
teaspoonful of salt, and boil until ten- 
der; remove from water, pull apart with two 
forks and put in buttered earthern baking 
dish in layers, with bread crumbs previously 
moistened with milk; add tablespoonful of 
butter, cut in small pieces. Place dish in 
oven and bake until onions are well browned. 



Onion Sauce 

^N ONION sauce which is good with 
roast duck is made by peeUng and 
chopping fine a small onion; put it in 
a saucepan over the fire, with a tablespoonful 
of butter, and when the butter begins to brown, 
stir in a tablespoonful of flour. When the 
flour is brown, add half a pint each of port 
wine and boiling water, a level teaspoonful of 
salt, a quarter of saltspoonful of pepper and 
a little grated nutmeg; stir the sauce until it 
boils, and then keep hot. When the ducks 
are done, pour the drippings from them into 
the sauce, mix them well with it, then serve 
hot. 



Spanisk Sweet Potato Pone 

77 1 ASH, peel and grate the best quality of 
\JlM sweet potatoes; measure five cups into 
^^^ a large bowl; into this stir three cups 
of best West India molasses, two cups butter 
(melt the butter carefully, and do not let it 
get oily), one cup preserved ginger, one cup 
preserved orange peel (orange peel and ginger 
to be cut very fine), one teaspoonful salt, one 
tablespoonful pounded ginger, and two table- 
spoonfuls allspice, cloves, mace and cinnamon 
mixed. When all these ingredients are thor- 
oughly mixed together, pour the pone into a 
well-greased pan, and bake in a moderately 
hot oven. Try it with a knife; when the 
blade comes out clean, take it out of the oven. 
Let it get cold before taking it from the pan. 
It should look dark, like a rich preserve, when 
properly baked. 



Spanish Fritter Puffs 

ONE tablespoonful powdered sugar, two 
ounces butter, one teaspoonful salt, one 
cup water and yolks of four eggs; put 
the water into the saucepan, add the sugar, 
salt and butter, and while it is boiling stir in 
flour enough to have it leave the pan; then 
stir in, one by one, the yolks of the eggs; now 
drop a teaspoonful into boiling lard and fry to 
a light brown. If nicely done they will be 
very puffy. 



Alligator Pear Salad 

PEEL and remove the stones from two large 
alligator pears; cut in small dice, add salt 
to taste, two or three tablespoonfuls of 
best olive oil, onion, cut very fine, to flavor. 
Surround with crisp lettuce leaves and add 
cayenne pepper if desired. 



Spanisk Salad 

CHOP, separately and very fine, four large 
cucumbers, four large tomatoes, one 
bunch of crisp celery, two heads fresh 
lettuce, and three green chili peppers. Mix 
all together, add one tablespoonful vinegar, 
two tablespoonfuls olive oil, juice of one lemon, 
salt and pepper to taste. Set in cool place 
until ready to serve. 



Dpanisn Luncneon Dish 

PUT one-half cup of olive oil, with a clove 
of garlic and an onion, sliced fine, in a 
frying pan; fry brown, then add a pound 
of cold roast meat; fry brown, then add a can 
of tomatoes and a chili pepper. Boil sticks 
of macaroni in salted water twenty minutes, 
then add to meat with a cup of fresh mush- 
rooms; pepper and salt to taste. When ready 
to serve, cover thickly with Parmesan cheese. 
Serve hot. Cut meat in inch-thick pieces be- 
fore frying. 



Spanisn Rice— No. 1 

fRY for a few seconds in two tablespoon- 
fuls of fresh lard one cupful of rice, add 
a little chopped onion and a clove of gar- 
lic; one cupful of chopped cold chicken, veal 
or ham; season with salt, pepper and a tea- 
spoonful of sugar; cover all with boiling water 
and cook slowly, without stirring. When rice 
is nearly done, remove cover. 



Spanisn Rice — No. 2 

PUT two cups of rice in frying pan with two 
tablespoonfuls of lard and one small on- 
ion, sliced thin; let cook a short time, 
then add one can of tomatoes and two ounces 
grated cheese; season with salt and cayenne 
pepper; cook slowly until done, adding hot 
water or stock if too dry. This will be suffi- 
cient for twelve persons. 



Spanisk Rice— No. 3 

77 1 ASH well two cupfuls of rice, put on 
^jLp to boil in one quart of water, one tea- 
spoonful of salt. When it begins to 
get tender, add one small onion, chopped fine, 
one cupful of chopped ripe tomatoes (as much 
of the juice as is possible drained), two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, a dash of pepper, two tea- 
spoonfuls of chili powder, mixed with a little 
cold water, and three heaping tablespoonfuls 
of sugar; let all cook slowly until well done. 
Delicious if served with mutton. 

Spanisn Catsup 

ONE-HALF gallon green cucumbers, one- 
half gallon cabbage, one quart tomatoes, 
one pint beans, one dozen onions, one 
dozen ears of green com, two cups of white 
mustard seed, three tablespoonfuls of tumeric, 
two tablespoonfuls grated horseradish; three 
tablespoonfuls of celery seed, two tablespoon- 
fuls olive oil, one tablespoonful mace, one ta- 
blespoonful cinnamon, one tablespoonful of 
cayenne pepper. Peel and slice the cucum- 
bers, sprinkle with salt, and let them stand 
six hours; prepare the cabbage in the same 
way; chop the onions, let them stand in boil- 
ing water half hour; chop tomatoes, beans 
and com, scald and drain; mix all and place 
in a jar and cover with boiling vinegar. 



Cnili Sauce 

CAKE two gallons tomatoes, boil one hour; 
add two quarts chopped onions, two cups 
brown sugar, one-half cup mustard seed; 
tie in cloth one tablespoonful each of whole 
black pepper, allspice and cinnamon bark and 
add to tomatoes; add, also, one teaspoonful 
cayenne pepper, salt to taste, and three green 
and three red peppers, chopped; boil four 
hours, then add two quarts of vinegar and 
boil one hour. 



Spanisn Pickle 



CHREE dozen large, ripe tomatoes, two 
dozen onions, eighteen red peppers; chop 
fine, add twelve tablespoonfuls of salt, 
twelve tablespoonfuls of brown sugar, seven 
cups of vinegar, six teaspoonfuls each of cloves, 
allspice and cinnamon; boil three hours, and 
put in glass jars. 



Spanisn Cneese 



PUT six large, green chili peppers in a hot 
oven and blister them, then rub off outer 
skin; wrap peppers around thin slices of 
cheese and fry in good lard. Make a Spanish 
gravy of six tomatoes, one red chili pepper, 
one clove of garlic, small onion, small piece of 
butter and salt and pepper. Cook all together, 
thoroughly strain and thicken with flour and 
water, and when ready to serve, pour over the 
fried peppers and cheese. Serve very hot. 



