TX 



Unpolished Rice 

The Staple Food of the Orient 



A LECTURE 

BY 

Rev. Henry S, Clubb 

TO THE 

VEGETARIAN SOCIETY OF AMERICA 

TO WHICH IS ADDED OVER 

One Hundred Receipts 

FOR COOKING 

Unpolished Rice Rice Flour 

Rice Polish 

and Testimonials of Eminent Food Reformers 



PHILADELPHIA: 

Published by The Vegetarian Society of America 

1905 

PRICE - 15 CTS. 






Copyrighted 1905, by Henry S. Clubb, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 



«3S 

INDEX TO RECEIPTS 




NUMBER 

Almond Soup, cream of 

rice and 14 

Asparagus and Rice, 

cream of 6 

Au Gratin Rice 29 

Baked Rice 3 

Banana Fritters (Rice 

flour) 55 

Bananas, baked and rice. 53 

Biscuits, rice 74 

Blanc Mange, rice 44 

Boiled Rice, for moulding 2 

Boiled Rice, plain 1 

Bread, rice flour 87 

Bread, rice polish 93 

Bread, rice polish 

steamed 94 

Bread, with mixture of 

rice 69 

Butter, fairy 95 

Cake, rice y 2 

Cake, rice (Almond) 71 

Cake, rice (Flour) 73 

Celery, cream of with 

rice 7 

Cheesecakes, rice 52 

Cheese, rice and toasted 27 
Cheese, rice stew with . 17 

Croquettes, rice 23 

Croquettes, sweetened, 

rice »4 

Custards, rice 64 

Cutlets, rice 26 

Dessert, rice and fruit.. 63 

Dessert, rice fruit 47 

Dessert, rice and stewed 

apple 39 

Dressing, rice 41 

Dumpling, rice 59 

Egg Balls, r.ce 19 



NUMBER 

Fried, rice 21 

Fritters, ground, rice.... 35 
Fritters, ground, rice.... 34 

Fruit and Rice 54 

Fruit Rice Balls 58 

Gems, buttermilk, rice 

polish 97 

Gems, rice 81 

Gems, rice polish 96 

Gems, sweet, polish .... 98 
Granola and Rice soup, n 
Griddle Cakes, rice .... 82 
Griddle Cakes, rice polish 100 

Ice Cream, rice 84 

Jelly, rice 36 

Johnny Cake, rice 90 

Melange of Rice 33 

Meringue, rice 45 

Milk, rice 83 

Moulded Ground Rice.. 67 
Moulded Ground Rice, 

(plain) 68 

Moulded Rice (English). 5 
Moulded Rice (plain) ... 66 

Mould, red, rice 62 

Mould, rice flour 38 

Muffins, entire rice flour. 92 

Muffins, ground rice 79 

Muffins, rice flour 76 

Muffins, rice 75 

Nutmeato, No. 1 101 

Nutmeato, No. 2 102 

Nutmeato, rice with .... 103 
Olive and Rice Sauce... 32 

Omelet, rice 20 

Onion and Rice Soup.. 8 

Pea and Rice Soup 12 

Potato and Rice Puree. 9 
Pudding, rice, boiled.... 51 
Pudding, rice, boiled and 



NUMBER 

apple 46 

Pudding, rice and tapioca 37 

Pudding, boiled.rice, plain 49 

Pudding, ground rice. . 50 

Pudding, rice 43 

Pudding, rice (almond). 48 
Pudding, rice, cream. ... 60 
Pudding, rice, polish .... 99 
Pudding, rice with rai- 
sins 61 

Rice Corn Bread 70 

Rice Croquette, simpler.. 25 

Rice Curry 18 

Rice Flour as Medicine. 104 

Rice Flour Batter Cakes. 89 

Rice Flour Cakes 42 

Rice Flour Rolls 88 

Rice Soup 13 

Rolls, rice 77 

Salad, rice 40 

Sauce, olive rice and 

mushroom 30 

Sauce, tomato 31 

Snowballs, orange 28 

Snowballs, rice 56 

Snowballs, rice, almond 

flavored 57 

Steamed, rice 4 

Stewed, rice 16 

Sweet Potato and Cream 

of Rice 10 

Tomatoes stuffed with 

Rice 80 

Tortillas, rice 22 

Vegetable, rice as a 15 

Wafers, rice 78 

Waffles, rice 91 

Water, rice 85 

Water, rice flour 86 






IttkNVBd 

J 90< 






UNPOLISHED RICE, 

THE STAPLE FOOD OF THE ORIENT 
By Rev. Henry S. Clubb. 



The endurance on long- marches; the wonderful activity, 
bravery and success of the soldiers of Japan, and their comparative 
freedom from camp diseases* and rapid recovery from wounds re- 
sulting in so many victories over their flesh-fed enemies who have 
been defeated and routed in every important engagement, fully 
confirm the views advanced in the following address delivered two 
years ago before the Vegetarian Society of Philadelphia. The 
address was published in the Rice Journal at the time, and extracts 
have appeared in many periodicals. It is now presented in full, 
as the events of the war and the growing interest in the subject of 
health foods seem to call for a more extensive diffusion of the in- 
formation contained therein : 
My friends and members of the Vegetarian Society : 

My attention was called to the subject of rice, by observing 
the great muscular development and strength of the athletes of 
japan, who are said to train chiefly, if not entirely, on a diet of 
rice. A correspondent in Connecticut inquired if I could procure 
him a sample of Japanese rice, as he had understood it was richer 
in protein or flesh-forming element than the South Carolina rice 
commonly grown in this country. 

Wheat here is considered so much richer in flesh-forming ele- 
ments that rice in the Middle, Western and Northern States is used 
only as a dessert, in the form of puddings, or blanc mange, whereas 
in the Southern, or rice-producing, states, it is served daily as a 
vegetable, largely taking the place of white potatoes in the daily 
meals. 

*General Oku's Headquarters, Feb. i, 1905. — In nine months there have 
been but 40 deaths from disease in the immense army commanded by General 
Oku, a record that is believed to be unequaled in the world's warfare. * * * 
The percentages of the other Japanese armies are believed to be about the 
same. — Phila. Record, Feb. 2, 1905. 



Our investigations have led us to believe that the more general 
use of rice as an article of daily food, not merely as an occasional 
dessert, would result in a diminution of dyspepsia and an increase 
of health, vigor, and vivacity throughout the continent of America. 

The fact that the Japanese are the most artistic, humane, 
vivacious, and happy people on the face of the earth ; and that 
their chief food is rice, is, on its face, a strong argument in favor 
of the more extensive use' of that cereal. 

Finding a good sample of Japanese rice in Philadelphia, I sent 
it to the Agricultural Department in Washington, inquiring if it 
had been analyzed, and received a very courteous reply from Mr. 
Ernst A. Bessey, Assistant in Charge of the Bureau of Plant In- 
dustry, United States Department of Agriculture, who wrote from 
Washington, April 19, 1902, that : ''So far as I know, no compara- 
tive analysis has been made to determine whether Japanese rice 
contains more nitrogen than South Carolina rice. The fact is that 
the American method of milling rice so as to give it a high polish, 
as shown by the sample you enclose, loses about 90 per cent, of 
the nitrogenous matter in the grain, as this is contained in the fine 
polish which is taken off. In Asia, however, rice is not polished, 
so that the nitrogenous matter remains on the grain, and, as a 
result, the grain is much more nutritious." 

The United States Agricultural Department kindly referred 
my letter to Prof. Knapp, of Lake Charles, La., who in due time 
sent the following valuable and interesting reply: 

"Lake Charles, La., April 22, 1902. 
"Rev. Henry S. Clubb, Philadelphia, Pa. 

"Dear Sir :— At the request of the Department of Agriculture, 
I will undertake to answer your letter of April 7, 1902. I have 
not the analysis of the Japan rice before me, but my recollection is 
that it is richer in fats than other rices, but not in protein com- 
pounds, or flesh-formers. 

"Being richer in fats, it has more flavor than other rices. The 
reason the Japanese are so muscular is that they do not polish their 
rice. In American mills the outside coating of the rice kernel is 
rubbed off. The process is as follows: 1st. The outer husk is 
removed. 2nd. The bran, just within the husk, is removed. 3rd. 
The solid kernel is then rubbed, to remove the rough protein sur- 
face and to give the kernel .a gloss. This is called polishing, and 
the material removed is called polish, one of the most nutritious 



substances in all the cereals. Polishing removes more than three- 
fourths of the flavor and about one-fourth the fiber material. In 
Japan, China, and India polishing- is not done, except for foreign 
markets. 

"The Japanese army in the advance on Peking out-footed the 
armies of Russia, Germany, England, France and America. The 
Japanese soldier is fed on rice, with a ration of beans and fish. 
He can double-quick for fourteen hours, and repeat it for days. 

"The Japanese or Chinese may be shot through the body, and 
if no vital part is cut, the) scarcely notice the wound. 

"If you will send to Dr. \Y. C. Stubbs, Audubon, New Orleans, 
La., I think you will get an analysis of Japan rice. 

"Very truly yours, 

"S. A. Kx AIM*." 

Agreeably to Prof. Knapp's suggestion, I wrote and received 
from Dr. Stubbs the following reply, dated "Audubon Park, New 
Orleans, La., May I, 1902: 

"There is no perceptible difference between analysis of Japan- 
ese rice and South Carolina rice. \Ye make them indiscriminately 
and have made both quite a number of times. A few years ago, 
we undertook an examination of the by-products of the rice mill, 
and published the results in Bulletin Xo. 24. Unfortunately, this 
edition is exhausted, but I send you a later bulletin on rice, on 
page 400 of which you will find the analysis of the different prod- 
ucts. By adding to the rice, the polish, analysis of which is given, 
and turning to page 399, you will see the amount of polish obtained 
there from 95 pounds of clean rice, and by putting the two together 
you can easily get the analysis of the rice after the bran is removed. 
If you desire the analysis of the rough rice with the bran and 
polish, you can simply take the rough rice, the amount of hulls 
with their analysis, and the remainder will be the rice with the 
polish and bran thereon. 

"I should imagine that you could make arrangements with 
any of the rice mills in this city or state to complete the process 
of cleaning the rice at any point you desire it. At present it is not 
a merchantable artiele, but arrangements might be made with any 
of our mills to furnish you with the rice just simply hulled, as you 
desire. By writing to any one of the rice mills in this state, of 



which we have over fifty, you can doubtless make such arrange- 
ments. 

"Very truly yours, 

"Wm. C. Stubbs." 

These letters led to correspondence with rice millers and 
others engaged in the rice industry, and we received from the Ag- 
ricultural Department, Washington, and from the Milling Com- 
panies in Louisiana, a mass of information on this subject, of which 
the following is a condensation : 

In the rice districts of the United States rice is used as a 
vegetable, or in place of Irish potatoes. In other parts of the coun- 
try rice is used chiefly boiled, flaked, rice puddings, croquettes, 
fritters, cakes, etc. 

One hundred pounds of cleaned rice contains 87.7 pounds of 
nutrients, consisting of eight pounds protein — flesh-forming— 3 
fat, 79 carbohydrates, .4 ash. In comparison with this 100 pounds 
of wheat contains 87.2 pounds of nutrients, 10.8 of protein, 1.1 fat, 
74 carbohydrates, .4 ash. 

Rice is easily digestible. The tables of Profs. Atwater and 
Woods in Bulletin No. 7 of the Storrs Experiment Station, Sep- 
tember, 1891, show that rice is fully as digestible as wheat flour, 
(fine) Maize meal, and more so than bread or potatoes. (Armory 
Austin B. S.) 

It is claimed that rice digests in a healthy stomach in one 
hour, while two hours is the average time required for digestion 
of food. 

Among cereals and grains, rice unquestionably stands first in 
importance in regard to the number of persons who consume it, 
the area devoted to its cultivation, and the amount annually pro- 
duced thereof in the whole world. It has been stated that rice 
forms the principal, and, in some cases, the only food of from one- 
third to one-half of the whole human race. (Armory Austin B. S.) 

The population of other rice-consuming countries in Asia 
and Africa may be roughly estimated at about 80,000,000 and the 
total of all the rice-consuming countries reaches 796,000,000 peo- 
ple, or 54.2 per cent, of the total population of the earth. (Armory 
Austin B. S.) 

China and its dependencies have a population of 404,003,000, 
or 27.5 per cent, of the total population of the globe, and rice cer- 



tainlv forms the principal food supply of its people. The same may be 
said o India with its population of 273,000,000, or 18 6 per cent, 
of fhe tc ^al population. In Japan, with a population of 39,000,000 
rL forms Si per cent, of the total sustenance. (Armory Austin B. S ) 
Even ^America, Europe and Australia, where wheat rye, 
maize, and other cereals are largely used, there is a large quantity 

° f "sir^^keley, Governor of Virginia, caused half a bushel 
of rice (probably brought from England whither it had been re- 
ceived fL India,) to be sown in her colony, and it produced six- 
teen bushete of good rice. This was in 1647. Rice was introduced 
to So^h Carolina in 1694. An English or Dutch ship was driven 
bv stress to seek shelter In Charleston Harbor and the captain 
visited Governor Smith, whom he had met in Madagascar. Smith 
expressed a desire to experiment with the growing of rice upon 
a low patch of ground in his garden; whereupon the captain pre- 
sented him a small bag of rice seed which happened to be among 
h si p stores The sled was brought from Madagascar, but may 
not have been grown there. It was planted in the garden m Long- 
fcude Lane, Charleston-the spot is still pointed out-and thus 
originated the important industry of rice cultivation, still flourish- 
ine in South Carolina. , 

There is a story that the Earl of Shaftsbury sent 100 pounds 
of the rice seed to Charleston about the same time from the- pro- 
duce of which sixty tons of paddy were shipped to England m 1698. 

Lowland rice was introduced to Louisiana in 1718, and upland 
rice into South Carolina, in 1772, from Cochin, China. 

In this way the rice plant from its Asiatic home has made the 
circuit of the earth, and is now cultivated throughout the torrid 
zone and in the warmest parts of both temperate zones wherever 
' there is abundant water supply. 

Its geographical limits are said to be 45 degrees N. and 38 de- 
grees S latitude in the Eastern and 36 degrees N. to 38 south lati- 
tude in the Western Hemisphere. It is believed that it could be 
profitably grown in New Jersey, as well as all the states south of 

that state. 

In China, Japan and Java soy sauce, soy bean cheese, or a 
similar product, is eaten with rice in considerable amounts, and 
furnishes a large part of the protein necessary for the daily diet of 
laborious people. 



Dr. S. A. Knapp in Farmers' Bulletin No. no states that 
"Fashion demands rice having a fine polish, which removes some 
of the most nutritious portions of the rice grains. The Oriental 
custom, much used by farmers in the South, of removing the 
hulls and bran with a pounder and using the grain without polish- 
ing is economical and furnishes a rice of much higher food value 
than the rice of commerce. In the process of polishing nearly all 
the fats are removed. Upon the theory that the flavor is in the 
fats, it is easy to understand the lack of flavor in commercial rice 
and why travellers universally speak of the excellent quality of the 
rice they eat in Oriental countries." 

The Engelberg Huller Company, of Syracuse, writes: "The 
people of the Northern part of the United States do not know the 
value of rice as a food. Two hundred times as much should be 
used as there is now." 

The Star Rice Milling Company, of Crowley, La., wrote, May 
8, 1902: 

"We do not sell rice in the unpolished state for the simple 
reason that it is not salable. Rice is an article that is sold entirely 
on its appearance, although we are candid to say that the unpol- 
ished rice contains more nutriment. But the public demands pol- 
ished rice, and we have to give it to them. You could probably 
make arrangements to buy unpolished rice if you desire it. Rice 
is the greatest food in the world." 

Farmers' Bulletin No. no, United States Department of Ag- 
riculture, speaking of the polish, or rice flour, says : "This polish 
is the germ and cuticle, and, like all other grains and fruit as it 
comes next to the skin is the sweetest part of the grain or fruit " 
Ihe Engelberg Huller Company, commenting on the above 
wrote 1 am satisfied that, if they would grind into flour what they 
save for the rice of commerce and analyze it, they would find it 
worth less than the polish. But that is not the style." 

The Engelberg Huller Company, engaged in the manufacture 

mise *,"£ % WTOt v ^ Pnl 2 f I9 ° 2 ' " Y ° U are COrrect in 3™ r ^~ 
Z h£h fintl P 011 ^ 1 "?^ nce - There » no question but what 
ni«Htl g » A ' ?l P ° 1Sh '. glVCn dce is at the ex P ense ^ both 
a a 112 »V-T t} i< In , ri r Cating COUntries ' where they use rice 
as a staple article of food, they do not ask for this high polish that 
people of the North especially, demand, as they want the dish to 



look nice.'' 

I understand from. the same company that the griddle cake 
flour known as "Aunt Jemima's" is made of one-third rice, one- 
third wheat, one-third corn and baking powder. All that is re- 
quired is milk enough to make it the right consistency for muffins, 
etc. It is exceedingly good." 

The Crowley Rice Milling Company, in kindly furnishing 
samples, wrote under date of Crowley, La., May 8, 1902: "If you 
could make this country a visit, you would get much valuable in- 
formation that would assist you in your lecture and would be in- 
teresting to your audience. Crowley is the largest rice-shipping 
station in the United States, and it is claimed by a great many 
people that it is the largest in the world. We have now eight 
large rice mills in this city and two more in the course of construc- 
tion with a possibility of a third." 

The samples of rice furnished by the Crowley Milling Corn- 
pan}-, Crowley, La., were shown in clear glass jars and explained 
to the audience by which they were examined carefully, questions 
being asked and answered. 

No. 1. Crowley's Best Head Rice. A very handsome sample 
of polished Japanese rice, having the appearance of pearls. This 
is now a very popular rice with the trade. It is grown in Louisiana 
from seed imported from Japan. It is considered richer in fat 
than other rice. 

No. 2. Cream of the Rice Field. This contains 87.7 per cent, 
of nutrients of which 8 are protein, 79 carbohydrates, .3 fat, .4 ash. 
It is a large grain, long and plump. 

No. 3. Japanese Head Rice. Very similar to No. 1. 

No. 4. Lmpolished Rice. This is the common South Carolina 
rice simply hulled and not polished. It is almost a pure white, 
and, when cooked, could scarcely be distinguished from the pol- 
ished rice in appearance, and, being richer in fat and protein, is 
superior to the best Head Rice as a flesh former. (It was the in- 
tention of the lecturer to exhibit some of this in a cooked form, 
but, being accessible to the family provider, it had been used for 
cooking in preference to any of the other samples. The Vege- 
tarian Society is obtaining a supply of this unpolished rice, and, 
when it arrives, will send samples by mail to all applicants as the 



object is to show that unpolished rice is so much better than the 
polished article.) 

No. 5. Rice Polish. This is rice flour that has been rubbed off 
rice in polishing. It is richer than rice in flesh-forming elements, 
having 11.7 per cent, of protein, 7.3 per cent, of fat, 64.3 per cent, 
of carbohydrates. It is one and three-fourths times more valuable 
as food than polished rice. (Samples of this are being obtained by 
the Vegetarian Society to distribute to members and other appli- 
cants. It is a rich food, but its keeping character in hot weather 
is not yet established. It requires to be kept in a cool, dry place 
during the summer season.) 

No. 6. Screenings. Simply the rice broken during the process 
of thrashing and hulling. It is as good as whole rice, although its 
being broken reduces its market value. It is screened from the 
head rice to improve its appearance. 

No. 7. Brewers. This is a much smaller broken rice, appar- 
ently screened from the screenings to make them more salable, 
and is usually sold to brewers. 

No. 8. Stone rice. This is rice partially hulled before being 
perfected in the hulling machine. 

No. 9. Rough. This is rice simply thrashed and removed from 
the straw with the hulls on. It somewhat resembles barley before 
being pearled. It is commonly called "paddy." 

No. 10. Rice Bran. This is a sample of the bran removed 
from the rice after it is hulled, but before it is polished. It has 
somewhat the appearance of what the wheat millers used to call 
"shorts" or "sharps," bolted from the fine flour to make it look 
whiter. It is richer in protein than any other product of the rice 
mill, containing 12. 1 per cent, of protein, 8.8 per cent, of fat, and 
59.4 per cent, of fibre and carbohydrates. 

The lecturer also exhibited a small sample of Mexican rice, 
presented him by the Geo. L. Squier Manufacturing Company, at 
Buffalo, N. Y., who are large manufacturers of rice machinery and 
grain and nut mills. It is somewhat smaller than the head rice of 
South Carolina. 

After these samples had all been discussed, small cups of rice 
coffee were served, made from rice browned in the oven. 



AFTER THE LECTURE. 

The Rev. Dr. MacPherson in expressing his great interest 
in the subject discussed, said the same principle had been of late 
years applied to the wheat flour industry, as it had been discovered 
that the best part of the wheat kernel was that nearest to the bran, 
and that had been, until recently, removed by the bolting process, 
in order to make a very white flour. The new machinery intro- 
duced was to preserve this important nitrogenous element in the 
flour, and, hence, "a whole wheat flour" now obtainable in all the 
stores. 

As an incident, illustrating the swelling quality of rice while 
cooking, the lecturer referred to the dilemma a new cook on board 
a steamer found himself in, when, being ordered to serve boiled 
rice for the passengers, he filled a boiler with rice in the dry state, 
adding water. It soon overran the sides of the boiler. He scooped 
some out and put it into another boiler with water; but still it 
continued to swell and overrun, until every cooking vessel avail- 
able was filled and yet it continued to overrun ; and the amateur 
cook found himself at his wit's end to know what to do with the 
overflowing rice. 

PREPARATION OF UNPOLISHED RICE. 

The use of material to give lustre to the polished rice may 
have given rise to the directions given in cook-books and the prac- 
tice of good cooks to "thoroughly wash," and even "rub with a 
cloth, and then rinse again the rice," but this is not necessary 
with unpolished rice as nothing is used to give it a pearly lustre 
and a single rinsing and picking out of any particles of dirt or of 
seeds will suffice. 

It is desirable for a family supply to begin the day with a 
good stock of 



I. PLAIN BOILED RICE.— If rice is to be used as a vege- 
table to be eaten with omelets or nut preparations, such as Pro- 
tose, Nutose or Meatose, etc., it should be boiled so as to retain 
the distinctive character of the kernals. The method common 
in the Southern States, is to use a porcelain or granite-ware stewpan ; 
put into it four cupfuls of water and let it come to a boil, add- 
ing a teaspoonful of salt. While still boiling, add gradually of 
the prepared rice, one cupful. With a fork, lift it once or twice, 
shaking the kettle so that none of the kernels stick to the bot- 
tom, and allowing the water to bubble through the grains. Let 
it boil twenty minutes; remove from the fire, pour off water, if 
any remains, and place on back of the stove or in the oven where 
it will finish swelling without burning. In this way the rice will 
be plump, light, and white. We believe with unpolished rice less 
salt is needed than with polished rice to produce the desired flavor, 
as the polishing process removes those elements which salt is 
required to replace. In fact, unpolished rice without salt is richer 
in flavor than polished rice is with salt. 

2 RICE FOR MOULDING.— If rice is desired to form 
moulds or cups, solid to be served with jelly, jam or stewed fruit, 
as a dessert, it requires at least ten minutes more boiling. A 
farina or double kettle is desirable in this case, and when it is well 
boiled, it may be pressed into cups or moulds, previously dropped 
in water; a weight should be placed upon each while cooking, so as to 
make it solid and retain its shape when turned out. The moulded 
rice is a very convenient summer dish, as it can be served at any 
meal throughout the day and eaten with fruit ; is exceedingly palat- 
able and wholesome. It should be prepared in the morning and 
it will be ready for any unexpected visitors during the day. When 
the double boiler is used, milk may be substituted for water, if 
desired, but the genuine richness of unpolished rice can be best 
discerned when water only is used in cooking. The milk when 
used should come to a boil before adding the rice. A great variety 
of dishes can be prepared from the rice thus cooked, and it is de- 
sirable to lfave a good supply so as to be prepared for any emer- 
gency, as other dishes can be quickly prepared from it. 

3. BAKED RICE. — Some persons cook rice, putting it into 
the oven in the evening and in the morning it is ready for break- 
fast. The heavy bean-pot with cover is suitable for this purpose. 



4. STEAMED RICE. — Put one cup of rice into a porcelain 
dish with three cups of cold water, set in a steamer and cook three 
hours. Add boiling water if necessary, but do not break the grains. 
One cup of raisins or a cup of figs or dates, cut fine and care- 
fully stirred in with a fork when the rice is half done, makes an 
agreeable dessert pudding. 

5. MOULDED RICE; English Method.— Eight ounces of rice, 
and three half pints of milk. Swell the rice in the milk till all of 
the milk is absorbed, and the rice thoroughly softened. Press it 
into a mould with a weight upon it. Serve it turned out with pre- 
served or stewed fruit. 

6. CREAM OF ASPARAGUS AND RICE SOUP.— Cut two 
bunches of asparagus into inch lengths and simmer them gently in 
water until tender. Pour into a colander and press through all the 
tender parts of the asparagus. Into a soup kettle, put two table- 
spoonfuls of butter or olive oil, and stir into it four tablespoon- 
fuls of riceflour, brown, and gradually add the asparagus stock 
(about one quart), let boil two minutes; then add a pint of sweet 
milk or cream. Season to taste and serve with buttered toast 
dice. 

7. CREAM OF CELERY WITH RICE.— Cream of celery 
may be made same as cream of asparagus, taking the outside 
stalks and stumps of two bunches. It should be boiled for about 
one hour and then prepared same as asparagus and rice. 

8. RICE AND ONION SOUP.— In one ounce of konut or 
butter fry till a light brown two or three large onions sliced 
thin ; add two tablespoonfuls of flour and brown till about the 
same color. Mix thoroughly with a pint of water; place over the 
fire in a soup kettle, and when it comes to a boil, pour in a quart 
of boiling milk, into which a cup of boiled rice has been mashed 
to a smooth paste. Continue boiling till done ; season to taste and 
serve. 

9. POTATO AND RICE PUREE.— Lightly brown one 
minced onion in a saucepan with one teaspoonful of butter or 
konut. Add two minced potatoes and fry a little while. To this 
add two quarts of water and allow to boil twenty minutes. Add 
half a cup of boiled rice. Pour the whole through a sieve and put 
the puree back into the soup kettle. When ready to serve, add 



one cup of cream, with one tablespoonful of butter or konut and 
seasoning. 

10. CREAM OF RICE AND SWEET POTATO.— Boil 
until tender, nine medium sized sweet potatoes and remove the 
skins. Sieve through a strainer the potatoes and one cup of boiled 
rice. Put the whole into a soup kettle with four taMespoonfuls of 
butter or konut and a little salt. Let boil a while and add two 
quarts of boiling milk. Stir well and serve with fried toast. 

ii. GRANOLA AND RICE SOUP.— Let two quarts of water 
boil, and when boiling add half pound of granola or re-baked bread 
crumbs, nicely ground. Let cook three quarters of an hour, stir- 
ring from time to time. Add half cup of boiled rice and let it 
boil a while longer. Add three spoonfuls of butter or konut, and 
one glass of milk. Do not let it boil after the milk is added. 

12. RICE AND PEA SOUP; English.— Four ounces of split 
peas; four ounces of rice; one ounce and a half of butter (or oil), 
and salt to taste. Steep the rice and peas twelve hours in a half 
pint of soft water, to which a small piece of carbonate of soda, 
the size of a pea, has been added ; pour off the water not absorbed. 
Digest these in a glazed covered jar in the oven, or boil slowly in 
a porcelain lined boiler from four to six hours ; add chopped parsley 
with the butter, and seasoning thirty minnutes before the boiling 
is completed. 

13. RICE SOUP.— Take boiled rice (2) and put it through a 
potato ricer and return to the double farina kettle with a cup of 
heated milk and seasoning. Into a cup of cream, beat well, three 
eggs. When the rice is stirred smooth in the milk, take from the 
fire and add the cream and beaten eggs. Add more seasoning if 
desired and serve with salted wafers. 

14. CREAM OF RICE AND ALMOND SOUP.— Blanch 
one pound of almonds ; drain ; put all except twelve, into a mortar 
with one glass of milk, and one cup of boiled rice. Mash up finely 
and mix with one quart of milk. Let warm, but not boil. When 
ready to serve, blend with two spoonfuls of rice flour, one tea- 
spoonful of sugar, one half teaspoonful of salt and two table- 
spoonfuls of butter mixed with one glass of cold milk. Split 



the blanched almonds yon have saved, put them in a tureen and 
pour the cream over. 

15. RICE AS A VEGETABLE.— Pick and wash in warm 
water a pound of the best rice; set it on the fire with two quarts 
of boiling water and a small teaspoonful of salt; boil it till about 
three parts done (15 minutes), and drain it in a sieve immediately. 
Butter a pan; put in the rice; place the lid on tightly; set in a 
moderate oven till the rice is perfectly tender, and serve in a 
vegetable-dish. Prepared in this way, every grain will be sep- 
arate and-quite white. 

16. STEWED RICE. — Put one half ounce of butter into a 
pot and fry in it until brown, an onion sliced; then add a half 
pint of hot water, half cup of rice, pepper, salt and cayenne. Cover 
and stew for fifteen or twenty minutes or until the rice is tender. 
Stir frequently to keep from burning. Serve. 

17. RTCE STEW WITH CHEESE.— Prepare as for stewed 
rice and when done add to it one ounce of grated cheese, stirring 
it thoroughly through the stew and serve, or the cheese may be 
sprinkled over the stew as it is served. 

18. RICE CURRY. — One canof tomatoes, six tablespoonfuls of 
rice, one onion, salt, one saltspoonful of curry powder, white pepper 
and one tablespoonful of butter. Put the butter in a saucepan, 
grate into it the onion, add the liquor of the tomatoes, rice and 
seasoning (salt, pepper and curry powder). Simmer for about 
an hour on back of stove. 

19. RICE EGG BALLS. — Boil hard five eggs; remove the 
shells and put through a potato ricer or a sieve with an equal 
amount of boiled rice (1.) Season with salt, pepper and butter. 
Make into balls and dip into raw Qgg: then in crumbs and fry in 
deep hot konut. Drain and place on small pieces of buttered toast, 
pouring over the whole, melted butter. 

20. RICE OMELET. — Beat separately three eggs, add to 
yolks one-third cup of milk, one half cup of rice, two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, a little salt and pepper and lastly the whites. Cook over a 
gentle fire. 

21. RICE, FRIED. — Rice boiled in milk and flavored with 
orange or lemon. To it add sugar and milk. When cold cut in 



pieces, roll each piece in cracker crumbs ; then in white of an egg ; 
then in cracker crumbs and egg again. Fry in hot konut. 

22. RICE TORTILLAS.— Make a dough of half pint of flour; 
half pint of ground rice, half cup of milk, a tablespoonful of but- 
ter, a little salt. Knead it thoroughly. Take pieces and put be- 
tween the hands until it makes a large round, very thin cake. Bake 
on a griddle until brown. 

23. RICE CROQUETTES.— To one cup of well boiled rice 
(2), add two yolks of eggs, a pinch of salt, a half cup of flour, in 
which one heaping teaspoonful of baking powder has been sifted. 
Mix v ell together and add enough milk to thin, and lastly fold 
in the well beaten whites of two eggs. When ready it should be 
of a consistency to drop from a spoon easily. Have ready a pot 
of hot konut ; drop in by the spoonful and turn very soon. When 
brown and cooked through, take out onto brown paper or folded 
cheese-cloth and serve in a folded square of white linen. 

24. SWEETENED RICE CROQUETTES.— To the above 
may be added a tablespoonful of sugar, making a sweetened cro- 
quette. 

25. A SIMPLER RICE CROQUETTE.— Omit any of the 
ingredients in No. 23, which may not be at hand, using the boiled 
rice, seasoned to taste, rolled in bread crumbs and fried in konut. 

26. RICE CUTLETS. — Fry two grated onions brown, add 
four tomatoes in the same pan and cook till tender. Cook a small cup- 
ful of rice in a double saucepan, turn it into a basin, add the onions 
and tomatoes, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, half a teaspoonful 
of lemon thyme, two ounces of bread crumbs, one egg, and season 
to taste. Mix well, turn out on plates and smooth with a wet 
knife. Cut into fingers and fry crisp in egg and bread crumbs. 
Serve with tomato or egg sauce. 

27. RICE AND TOASTED CHEESE.— Cut squares of cold, 
well boiled rice, (2) and fry in konut or oil until a rich brown. 
Cut cheese into squares about half as large, hold on a fork to the 
fire and when softened place quickly on a square of boiled rice. 
Serve immediately. The fried squares of rice are also good without 
the cheese. 

28. ORANGE SNOWBALLS.— Boil two cupfuls of rice for 
fifteen minutes ; drain and let cool ; pare six nice oranges, being 



careful to remove the white skin ; spread the rice, in as many por- 
tions as there are oranges, on pudding cloths ; place the orange in 
the center and tie; boil for one hour; turn out and sprinkle with 
sugar and serve with strawberry sauce. 

29. RICE AU GRATIN. — Two cups of cold boiled rice, cov- 
ered with a heavy cream sauce made with two teaspoonfuls of 
flour and butter, put in saucepan over the fire, one teaspoonful 
salt, one white pepper, teaspoonful onion juice, cup of milk. Pour 
over the rice and lightly stir. On top sprinkle bread crumbs, half- 
cup grated Parmesan cheese (American Creamery will do, but is 
not so good). Put this in a baking dish and bake five minutes. 

30. OLIVE. RICE AND MUSHROOM SAUCE.— Prepare 
as for olive and rice sauce (32), putting in a quarter pound of 
canned mushrooms with their juice, one tablespoonful of rice flour 
and one tablespoonful of boiled rice. Let brown. Good to pour 
over savories. 

31. TOMATO SAUCE. — Put butter or konut the size of an egg 
into saucepan ; when it bubbles throw in a large onion chopped fine 
with two sprigs of parsley and a little pepper. Let it cook five 
minutes ; then throw in a heaping teaspoonful of rice flour and a lit- 
tle hot water. Cook a few minutes ; pour in a cup of strained 
tomatoes, stir well and pour over any savory omelet, or rice fritters. 

32. OLIVE AND RICE SAUCE.— Stone twelve olives; mix 
with one tablespoonful of flour, one of boiled rice (2) with one and 
a half cupfuls of water. Boil five minutes. 

33. MELANGE OF RICE.— Run through a food chopper 
enough vegetables to make one cup each of finely chopped cab- 
bage, carrot, potatoes and turnips, add half cup of onion and half 
cup of celery. Put all into a kettle with two quarts of hot water 
and let boil one hour. Add salt, pepper and cayenne to taste. Let 
boil half an hour longer. Stir a cupful of milk into a cupful of 
plain boiled rice (1), warm, add a tablespoonful of butter or oil 
and mix all with the vegetables, but do not let the soup boil after 
adding the milk and rice. 

34. RICE FRITTERS. — Six ounces of rice, and five eggs. 
Boil the rice, till quite soft, in as much water as it will absorb ; put 
it in a basin, and when nearly cold, add the eggs well beaten, sea- 



son, fry it in fritters of a light-brown color and serve with brown 
sauce. 

35. GROUND RICE FRITTERS.— Quarter of a pound of 
coarsely ground rice, four eggs, a teaspoonful of parsley, and a 
teaspoonful of onions, both finely chopped. 

36. RICE JELLY. — Mix a heaping teaspoonful of rice flour 
with enough cold water to make a smooth paste. Add a pint of 
boiling water, sweetened with two tablespoonfuls sugar and boil 
until clear. Flavor with lemon juice and mould. 

37. RICE AND TAPIOCA PUDDING.— Soak one half cup 
of tapioca over night in a cup of water; in the morning drain off 
the water if any remains. Add to the tapioca half cup of rice, 
one cup of sugar, one cup of raisins, and eight cups of new milk, 
with a little grated lemon rind for flavoring. Put all in an earthen 
pudding dish on the top of the range where it will heat very grad- 
ually to the boiling point, stirring frequently. When the milk 
boils, put the pudding in the oven, and bake till the rice grains are 
perfectly tender, but not broken and mushy. From twenty minutes 
to half an hour is usually sufficient. When taken from the oven, 
it will appear quite thin, but after cooling will be of a delicious 
creamy consistency. Serve cold. 

38. RICE FLOUR MOULD.— Braid two tablespoonfuls of 
rice flour with a little milk and stir the mixture into a pint of boil- 
ing milk, to which has been added three tablespoonfuls of sugar 
and a little salt, if desired. Let this boil until it thickens, then 
mould and serve with cream and sugar or with lemon, orange or 
other fruit sauce. 

39. RICE AND STEWED APPLE DESSERT.— Steam or 
bake some rice in milk until tender, sweeten slightly and spread 
a layer of the rice half an inch thick on the bottom of a pudding 
dish, then a layer of lemon-flavored apple sauce, which has been 
rubbed through a colander and afterwards simmered on the range 
until stiff. If preferred, the sauce may be prepared by first baking 
the apples, and then rubbing the pulp through a colander. Add 
another layer of rice, then one of the sauce, and so on until the 
dish is full. Bake in a moderate oven and serve hot. If the apples 
are not very tart; part stewed and sifted cranberries may be used 
with them. 



40. RICE SALAD. — One cup of cold rice, one chopped onion, 
some chopped celery. Mix all together, adding sufficient salad 
dressing to season. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

41. RICE DRESSING. — One onion chopped fine, brown in one 
tablespoonful of butter, mix into this six cups of boiled rice and 
one cup of bread crumbs moistened in one cup of milk, add one 
cup of nut butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one-quarter teaspoonful of 
pepper, one-half spoonful thyme and a little chopped parsley. 

42. RICE FLOUR CAKES.— One-half cup butter; one cup 
sugar ; two eggs ; one cup sweet milk, one and one-half cups rice 
flour ; two teaspoonfuls baking powder ; lemon flavoring. Bake in 
gem pans. 

43. RICE PUDDING. — Six ounces of rice, one quart of 
milk, one ounce of butter, three ounces of sugar, four eggs, a lit- 
tle powdered cinnamon, and grated lemon-peel, or a few drops of 
almond flavor. Pick and wash the rice, set on the fire in cold 
water, and let boil about five minutes ; then drain off the water 
and put the rice in a deep dish with the milk and a saltspoonful of 
salt ; cover with a plate and set in a moderate oven ; when the rice 
is sufficiently done, put in a basin and stir in the butter, sugar and 
seasoning; when nearly cold, add the eggs, well beaten; boil in 
a buttered basin, or bake in a pudding dish. Sultana raisins or 
currants may be added. 

44. RICE BLANC-MANGE.— Three tablespoonfuls of rice 
flour mixed with a little cold milk, and one pint of milk. Stir well 
together and add three-fourths of a cup of sugar, the grated rind 
of a lemon and one-half teaspoonful of vanilla. Place on the fire 
and boil till it thickens (stirring constantly), then pour into moulds 
and allow it to cool. Turn on a dish and serve with whipped cream 
or stewed fruit. 

45. RICE MERINGUE.— Steam a cupful of rice; first soak in 
one and a fourth cups of water for an hour, then add a cup of milk, 
turn into an earthen dish suitable for serving it from a tabic, 
and place in a steam-cooker or a covered steamer over a kettleof 
boiling water, and steam for an hour. It should be stirred with 
a fork occasionally, for the first ten or fifteen minutes. Heap 
loosely on a glass dish and dot with squares of cranberry or 
currant jelly.' Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth 



with one-third cup of sugar and pile it roughly over the rice. 
Serve with cream. 

46. BOILED RICE AND APPLE PUDDING.— Wash a cup- 
ful of good rice and steam until half done. Have pared and cored 
without dividing, six large, easy-cooking tart apples. Put a clean 
square of cheese cloth over a plate, place the apples on it, and 
fill them and all the interstices between with rice. Put the re- 
mainder of the rice over and around the apples ; tie up the cloth 
and cook in a kettle of boiling water until the apples are tender, 
when done, lift from the water and drain well, untie the cloth, 
invert the pudding upon a plate and remove the cloth. Serve hot 
with cream and sugar or cocoanut sauce. 

47. RICE FRUIT DESSERT.— Cold boiled rice, moulded so 
that it can be sliced, may be utilized in making a variety of deli- 
cious desserts. A nice pudding may be prepared by filling a dish 
with alternate layers of half-inch slices of moulded rice and grated 
tart raw apples the same thickness. Grate a little lemon rind over 
each layer. Cover, and place in the oven in a pan of boiling water, 
and bake for an hour. Serve with sugar and cream. Stoned cher- 
ries or peaches may be used instead of apples. 

48. RICE PUDDING. — Three ounces of rice, a pint and a 
half of milk, two ounces of butter, three or four ounces of sugar, 
three eggs, and half an ounce of almonds, bitter and sweet mixed. 
Wash the rice and put into a dish with the milk and a very small 
portion of salt ; set in the oven and let it remain till tender ; turn 
into a basin and stir in the butter and about two ounces of pow- 
dered sugar, and when cold, add the yolks of the eggs, well beaten ; 
melt a little butter in a dish and pour in the rice ; then beat the 
whites of the eggs, adding the remainder of the sugar and the 
almonds, pounded; pour them on the top of the rice and bake 
about an hour in a moderately hot oven. 

49. BOILED RICE PUDDING, WITHOUT MILK OR 
EGGS. — Six ounces of rice, and two ounces of currants. Wash 
and pick the rice ; put into a saucepan with a pint and a half of cold 
water, adding a little salt; let boil gently, till all the water is ab- 
sorbed; then add the currants or raisins, carefully washed and 
picked. Butter a pint basin, put in the rice, cover with a cloth, and 
let boil one hour. 



50. GROUND RICE PUDDING.— Four ounces of ground 
rice, one quart of milk, two ounces of butter, quarter of a pound 
of sugar, five eggs, and a little almond flavor. Mix the rice with a 
little cold milk till smooth; set the remainder of the milk with a 
little cinnamon in it, over the fire and when boiling, add the rice 
gradually, and continue stirring till it has boiled a few 
minutes; then pour into a basin and stir in the butter and 
sugar well beaten and the almond flavor; bake either with paste 
round the dish or without, sift white sugar on the top and serve 
with currant jelly. 

51. BOILED GROUND RICE PUDDING.— Six ounces of 
ground rice, one quart of milk, five eggs, quarter of a pound of 
sugar and one teaspoonful of salt. Set a pint and a half of new 
milk on the fire and when nearly boiling, add the rice, mix till 
quite smooth with quarter of a pint of cold milk; stir constantly 
till it thickens ; pour into a dish and stir in the sugar and salt ; 
when nearly cold, add the eggs, well beaten ; boil an hour and a 
half in a buttered dish and serve with sweet sauce. 

52. RICE CHEESECAKES. — Quarter of a pound of ground 
rice, one pint of milk, five ounces of white sugar, quarter of a 
pound of butter, and four eggs. Boil the rice in the milk, adding 
a piece of cinnamon ; pour into a basin and when nearly cold add 
the butter melted, the eggs, well beaten ; the sugar, powdered, and 
a few drops of almond flavor. Bake in small tins, lined with pie 
paste. 

53. BAKED BANANAS AND RICE.— Place in a double ket- 
tle two cups of new milk and a teaspoonful of butter and a half 
teaspoonful salt and let it come to a boil. Now, add gradually 
stirring, a half cup of well warmed rice ; cover closely, boil half 
an hour. Lay six ripe large bananas into pie-pan, pour over them 
hot water until the bottom of the pan is well covered and place 
them in a good steady oven, and bake until soft. Take from the 
oven, pour off water, if any, set back and dry off five minutes. 
Put a spoonful of the warm boiled rice on a plate, spread out a 
little and place on the top the baked bananas from which the skin 
nas just been removed, bend it into a neat circle on the rice, drop 
a bit of good butter into the center and carry to the table hot. 

54. FRUIT AND RICE.— Instead of bananas in thf forf 



going recipe any kind of fresh or canned fruit may be stubstituted, 
such as peaches, pears, plums, apricots, apples, fresh figs and all 
kinds of berries. The fruit may be used either fresh or stewed 
and if fresh the addition of sugar and cream helps very much some 
kinds. 

55. BANANA FRITTERS.— Take one cup of rice flour and 
one-half cup of wheat flour, one coffee cup milk, one egg, half a 
teaspoonful salt, one and one-half teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Beat together the flour, half the milk and the yolk of the egg, 
salt and baking powder. Beat rapidly and well, whipping over 
and over (not merely stirring), and lastly fold in the beaten whites. 
Take up a spoonful, insert into it six slices of banana, cut 
across, close the incision, drop into hot konut and fry to a delicate 
brown, five of ten minutes. 

56. RICE SNOWBALLS.— One cup of rice boiled and 
cooled. Whites of three eggs. Three spoonfuls of sugar and one 
teaspoonful of melted butter. Mix thoroughly and form into balls. 
Set on to a flat low dish, place in the oven and bake without brown- 
ing, about ten minutes. Pour over this whites of three eggs beaten 
dry, to which three teaspoonfuls of pulverized sugar and half a 
teaspoonful of lemon extract are added. Set in a cool oven to 
just dry and not brown and serve with whipped cream. 

57. RICE ALMOND FLAVORED SNOWBALLS.— Boil six 
ounces of rice in one quart of milk with sugar and a flavoring of 
almond until the rice is tender, adding a little more milk, should 
it dry away too much. When the rice is soft put it into teacups 
and let it remain till cool, then turn it out into a deep dish, pour 
over it a pint of custard and on the top of each ball place a 
bright colored piece of jelly. The custard should be made with 
the whites of eggs and seasoned with almond. 

58. FRUIT RICE BALLS.— Into a double kettle put a pint 
of fresh milk and let it come to a boil, when it boils stir into it 
half a cup of rice, half a teaspoonful of salt, cover and let it boil 
fifteen minutes. Seed a half cup of raisins, wash and dry a half 
cup of currants, cut in thin slices citron, enough to make a half 
cup, beat one egg with the yolk of one more, with one-fourth of a 
cup of sugar. At the end of the fifteen minutes add the fruit to 
the rice and cook ten minutes longer. Just before taking from the 



fire, add the beaten eggs, let stand five minutes and turn upon a flat 
dish. Press out to about two inches thickness, cut into cakes 
with a biscuit cutter, roll in beaten eggs, then in bread crumbs, 
and fry in hot konut. Serve with cream or any sauce. 

59. RICE DUMPLING.— Steam a teacup of rice until tender. 
and line an oiled earthen pudding dish, pressing it up around the 
sides and over the bottom. Fill the crust thus made with rather 
tart apples cut in small slices; cover with rice, and steam until 
the apples are tender, which may be determined by running :i 
broom-straw through them. Let stand until cold, then turn from 
the dish and serve with sugar and cream. Any easy-cooking tart' 
fruit as stoned cherries, gooseberries, etc., may be used in place 
of the apples, when preferred. 

60. RICE CREAM PUDDING.— Take one cup of good well 
washed rice, one scant cup of sugar and eight cups of new milk, 
with a little grated lemon rind flavoring. Put all into an earthen 
pudding dish and place on the top of the range. Heat very slowly 
until the milk is boiling, stirring frequently, so that the rice shall 
not adhere to the bottom of the dish. Then put into a moderately 
hot oven, and bake without stirring, till the rice is perfectly tender, 
which can be ascertained by dipping a spoon in one side and taking 
out a few grains. It should be, when cold, of a rich creamy con- 
sistency, with each grain of rice whole. Serve cold. It is best 
if made the day before it is needed. If preferred, the milk may 
be first flavored with cocoanut, according to the directions. 

61. RICE PUDDING WITH RAISINS.— Wash thoroughly 
one half cup of rice, and soak for two hours in warm water. Drain 
off the water, add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one half cup of 
raisins, and four cups of milk. Put in an earthen pudding dish 
and cook for two hours in a moderate oven, stirring once or twice 
before the rice begins to swell, than add a cup of hot milk and 
cook for an hour longer. 

62. RED RICE MOULD.— Take one and one-half pints of 
red currants and one-half pint of red raspberries. The juice may 
be diluted with one part water or two of juice if desired. Sweeten 
to taste, and for each pint when boiling stir in two tablespoonfuls 
of ground rice or rice flour rubbed smooth in a little of the juice 
which may be retained for the purpose. Pour into moulds, cool, 
and serve with whipped cream. 



63. RICE AND FRUIT DESSERT.— Steam a cup of good 
well-washed rice in milk till tender. Prepare some tart apples by 
paring dividing midway between the stem and blow ends and 
removing the core. Fill the cavities with quince of pineapple jelly; 
put the apples in a shallow stewpan with a half cup of water, 
cover and steam till nearly tender. Put the rice, which should be 
very moist, around the bottom and sides of a pudding dish ; place 
the apples inside cover and bake ten minutes. Serve with cream 
flavored with quince or lemon. 

64. RICE CUSTARDS.— One ounce and a half of ground 
rice, three ounces of loaf sugar and one pint of new milk. Boil 
the rice in the milk, adding the sugar, and a piece of cinnamon ; 
pour it into custard-cups, in which a little fresh butter has been 
melted, and bake in a slow oven. 

65. MOULDED RICE.— Eight ounces of rice, one salt- 
spoonful of salt, and three pints and a quarter of milk. Wash the 
rice, pour the milk upon it, and boil slowly, in a brown basin, 
covered, in the oven, till it becomes tender, and the milk absorbed, 
pour into a mould and cover with a plate ; turn out, either warm 
or cold and serve with preserves and cream. 

66. PLAIN MOULDED RICE.— Eight ounces of rice, one 
saltspoonful of salt, and three pints and a quarter of water. Wash 
the rice ; pour the water upon it and boil slowly in a brown basin, 
covered, in the oven, till it becomes tender and the water absorbed ; 
dip a mould in cold water ; pour in the rice and cover with a 
plate; turn out, either warm or cold and serve with preserved or 
stewed fruit. 

67. MOULDED GROUND RICE.— Five ounces of ground 
rice, one quart of milk, four ounces of loaf sugar, half a saltspoon- 
ful of salt, and six drops of almond flavor. Steep the rice in a 
little cold milk while the rest of the milk is boiling; then add it 
to the boiling milk, with sugar ; boil twenty minutes, stirring all 
the time ; add the flavor ; pour into a mould, previously dipped in 
cold water; let stand till cold and serve with preserves and cream. 

68. PLAIN MOULDED GROUND RICE.— Six ounces of 
ground rice, two ounces of loaf sugar, six drops of lemon flavor or 
three drops of almond flavor and one quart of water. Steep the rice in 
a little of the water while the rest of the water is boiling; then 



add it to the boiling water with the sugar; boil twenty minutes, 
stirring it all the time; add the flavor; dip the mould into cold 
water; pour in the rice, and let it stand till cold, serving with 
stewed or preserved fruit. 

69. BREAD WITH A MIXTURE OF RICE. -Six pounds of 
flour, one pound of rice, one ounce and a half of German yeast, 
and one ounce of salt. Boil the rice in two quarts of water till 
soft ; drain the water from it ; mash, and mix the rice with the 
flour, adding the salt, and the yeast prepared as usual ; mix with 
the water in which the rice was boiled, adding as much lukewarm 
water as required, and when risen bake the bread in the usual way. 

70. RICE CORN BREAD.— Separate three eggs; to the yolks 
add a pint of milk and a tablespoonful of melted butter, a cupful 
of boiled rice, two cupfuls of corn meal and a ha 1 f cup of flour. 
Beat thoroughly ; add two teaspoonfuls of baking powder and fold 
in the well beaten whites. Bake in a shallow pan in a quick oven. 

71. RICE CAKE. — Half pound of ground rice, ten ounces of 
sugar, six eggs and two ounces of bitter almond.*. Blanch, and 
beat the almonds in a mortar and put them to the ground rice, 
adding the sugar, finely powdered, and the eggs w«*U beaten and 
strained ; beat all together about three quarters of an hour. Bake 
in a buttered mould, in a moderately hot oven. 

72. RICE CAKE. — Half a pound of ground rice (not ric : 
flour), half pound of white sugar, four eggs and a few drops of almond 
flavor. Beat the eggs a little and mix them with the rice and sugar ; 
beat with a wooden spoon half an hour, adding the almond flavor ; 
pour into a tin mould,' warmed and well rubbed over with fresh 
butter, only filling it, and bake in a moderatch hot oven. If 
baked in one, it will require about an hour ; if in two, about three 
quarters of an hour. 

73. RICE CAKE. — Half a pound of fine rice flour, quarter of 
a pound of the best moist sugar, one teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der, two eggs, half a pint of milk, three ounces of butter and one 
ounce of candied citron or lemon. Mix the baking powder well 
with the flour: add the citron, cut in small pieces, and the sugar; 
when mixed, add the eggs, well beaten, nearly half a pint of milk, 
and the butter, melted; mix all together; pour into two tin moulds, 
warmed and buttered which should only be about half filled and 
bake in a moderately hot oven. 



74- RICE BISCUITS. — One pound of rice flour, one pound 
of loaf sugar, eight eggs, and a teaspoonful of essence of lemon. 
Mix the rice flour with the sugar, powdered; add the eggs, well 
beaten; the essence of lemon or a few drops of almond flavor and 
bake in cheesecake-tins made hot and a little clarified butter put 
in each, in a moderately hot oven. 

75. RICE MUFFINS. — Dilute one cup of boiled rice with one 
cup of milk, one teaspoonful of melted butter, yolks of two eggs, 
one and a half cups of flour, one tablespoonful of sugar, half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one heaping teaspoonful of baking powder. Fold 
the beaten whites of the eggs in carefully ; pour into hot gem pans and 
bake in a quick oven. 

76. RICE FLOUR MUFFINS.— One and one-half cups of 
rice flour, two cups of whole wheat Graham flour, a little salt, 
one and one-half tablespoonfuls of baking powder; sift these thor- 
oughly together and add one pint of sweet milk and a little but- 
ter, and one well beaten egg. Bake in a hot oven twenty minutes. 

yy. RICE ROLLS. — Into one pint of scalded milk stir one 
pint of ground rice, two tablespoonfuls of sugar and one teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Beat thoroughly and add three well beaten eggs and 
bake in a hot oven twenty minutes. 

78. RICE WAFERS.— Put one cup of boiled rice through a 
sieve and mix with it one cup of sifted flour, white of an egg, salt- 
spoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of konut or butter, and enough 
sweet milk to make a biscuit dough. Put on moulding board and 
beat with rolling-pin for twenty minutes. Take a small piece of 
the dough rojl between the hands and then roll out with rolling-pin 
as thin as possible, flour and place in tins and bake to a light 
brown. 

79. GROUND RICE MUFFINS.— Take one quart of ground 
rice, add to it one ounce of butter, one teaspoonful of sugar and 
a little salt. Pour on enough boiling water to moisten all the 
meal, stirring all the time. Cool and ?dd yolks of three well beaten 
eggs, then enough sweet milk to form a batter, beating thor- 
oughly ; add one tablespoonful of baking powder, moisten with a 
little water and lastly, fold in the whites of the eggs well beaten. 
Bake in muffin or gem pans in a quick oven. 



80. TOMATOES STUFFED WITH RICE.—Take large 
smooth tomatoes, cut out of the stem end a piece as large as a dol- 
lar. With a spoon scoop out the inside, not too deep and All this 
cavity with the following: One-half cup rice, well boiled, a table- 
spoonful of onions, fried in a teaspoonful of butter, and a little 
parsley. Bind these with a well beaten egg; season. 

81. RICE GEMS. — A pint of buttermilk or sour milk, one egg, 
a teaspoonful of soda (or more if the milk is quite sour), a little 
sugar if desired, half teaspoonful of salt. Mix one-third whole 
wheat flour, (Graham), with two-thirds rice flour and beat into 
the milk and egg enough to make it the consistency of Graham 
gems. Drop into the heated gem pans and bake about fifteen 
minutes. 

82. RICE GRIDDLE CAKES.— Boil a cup of rice: when cold 
mix thoroughly with one pint sweet milk, the yolks of four eggs 
and flour sufficient to make a stiff batter. Add one tablespoonful 
of melted butter. Stir in one teaspoonful of soda and two of 
cream of tartar and a little salt, fold in the beaten whites of the 
eggs and fry on a griddle. A nice way to serve is to butter them, 
cover with preserves or jelly, roll them up, sprinkle and serve 
hot. 

83. RICE MILK. — Quarter of a pound of rice, and three pints 
of milk. Wash and pick the rice, and soak one hour in cold 
water: then pour off the water and set the rice on the fire with 
the milk and a little cinnamon, stirring it frequently: when suffi- 
ciently boiled, mix a dessertspoonful of Hour with a little water 
and stir it well in, adding sugar and salt. 

84. RICE ICE CREAM.— Put two heaping teaspoonfuls of 
rice Hour into a double boiler, add slowly one quart of milk and 
two cups of sugar; cook for fifteen minutes, then add the beaten 
yolks of six eggs, cook for a moment and add the beaten whites 
of the eggs just before taking from the fire; when cold add one 
quart of cream and two teaspoonfuls of vanilla, then freeze. 

85. RICE WATER. — Wash and pick two ounces of rice; set 
on the fire in a quart of water; boil gently till the rice is quite 
soft and pulpy ; rub through a hair sieve, and sweeten with, honey or 
sugar. Lemon juice may be added. Two apples sliced and boiled 
with the rice water, makes a pleasant summer drink. 



86. RICE FLOUR WATER.— Mix one tablespoonful of rice 
flour with enough cold water to make a smooth paste, add two 
pints boiling water. Sweeten and boil till clear. Cool on ice and 
serve quite cold, but not iced. 

87. RICE FLOUR BREAD.— One pint of fine rice flour in a 
warm bowl. Pour on it three pints of boiling water, stirring well. 
Cover and let it stand awhile to soften thoroughly. When cool add 
a little more yeast than for wheaten bread. Salt and shortening 
(konut), same as for wheaten bread. Work it thoroughly and set 
it to rise. When light, use wheaten flour enough to mould it into 
loaves. Put into pans; let rise and bake. 

88. RICE FLOUR ROLLS.— Take the sponge of the Rice 
Bread (87), using as little wheaten flour as possible for moulding 
into rolls. Let rise till quite light and bake. 

89. RICE FLOUR BATTER CAKES.— Make a batter with 
rice flour and very little wheat flour, using eggs or baking powder 
and bake on griddle. 

90. RICE JOHNNY CAKE.— One egg beaten very light; one 
cup of milk ; two cups of rice flour ; one heaping teaspoonful baking 
powder ; one teaspoonful sugar, and one of konut ; salt to taste. 
Bake in oiled bread pan or muffin rings. 

91. RICE WAFFLES. — To two cups of boiling water add a 
little salt and one cup of rice flour. Stir well and set aside to cool. 
When milk warm stir in one teaspoonful of soda and enough sour 
milk alternately with one-half cup of wheat flour to make a waffle 
batter. Lastly add a teaspoonful of melted butter or konut and two 
well beaten eggs. 

92. ENTIRE RICE FLOUR MUFFINS.— Pour two cups of 
boiling water over a heaping teaspoon of butter or konut; while 
still boiling add a cup of rice flour and stir briskly. Remove from 
the fire and cover. When lukewarm add one teaspoonful of soda, 
half a cup of sour milk, and two eggs, beating: well. Bake in greased 
muffin rings in a hot oven. 

93- RICE POLISH BREAD.— Two cups of buttermilk or sour 
milk. Into this stir one and one- half teaspoonfuls of soda and a salt- 
spoonful of salt. Then add two cupfuls of sifted rice polish and a large 
teaspoonful of melted butter. Beat two minutes and pour into^a 



buttered tin can or pail having a tight cover. Set into boiling water 
and boil continuously for two hours. Always replenish the kettle 
with boiling water. This comes out a rich brown loaf. 

04 RICE POLISH STEAMED BREAD.— Into two cups of 
buttermilk or sour milk stir one and one-half teaspoonful of soda 
with a heaping saltspoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of sugar. 
Then add two cupfuls of sifted rice polish, a teaspoonful of melted 
butter, using more if sour milk is used, and a cup of washed and 
dried currants or any other fruit, cherries being preferred. Thor- 
oughly mix and pour into a well buttered can -or pail which has a 
tight cover. Set in boiling water and boil continuously for two 
hours. Add boiling water to the batter as needed. Serve with 
Fairy Butter. 

95. FAIRY BUTTER.— Cream very thoroughly one teaspoon- 
ful of butter with one-half cup of sugar and season with lemon. 

96. RICE POLISH GEMS.— Separate one egg, put the yolk 
into a bowl, beat until light, add one cupful of sweet milk and a 
saltspoonful of salt. Sift one cup of rice polish, stir into it one and 
one-half teaspoonfuls of baking powder and stir into the mixture. 
Fold the beaten whites in lightly and drop into heated gem pans. 
Bake fifteen minutes. 

97. BUTTERMILK RICE POLISH GEMS.— Separate an ege: 
and beat the yolk until light. Then add ono cup of buttermilk or one 
cup of sour milk (if sour milk is used, add more butter). Stir into 
the milk a teaspoonful of soda and half a teaspoonful of salt. Beat 
and add one cupful of sifted rice polish. Beat until thoroughly 
incorporated, then fold in the beaten whites of the eggs. Bake in 
heated gem pans fifteen minutes. 

98. SWEET RICE POLISH GEMS.— Same as 96, only add 
sugar to make a sweetened gem. 

99. RICE POLISH PUDDING.— One cup of sifted polish, 
half or cup of flour, a heaping teaspoonful of baking powder, a table- 
spoonful of sugar. Sieve all these together so as to thoroughly mix 
them. Add one teaspoonful of butter or konut and mix all together 
with sweet milk and a well beaten egg. Use sufficient milk or water 
to make a rather stiff batter: then mix in half a cup of cleaned 
currants, seeded raisins or other dried fruit; flavor with nutmeg or 
other spice and pour into a well-buttered pudding bowl ; place on 



cover and steam for two hours. Serve with cream sauce. 

ioo. RICE POLISH GRIDDLE CAKES.— A cup and a half 
of sifted rice polish, one cup of wheat flour, a teaspoonful and a 
half of baking powder. Beat up two eggs, adding a pint of milk 
and a saltspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of melted butter or konut; 
lastly add gradually the polish, flour and baking powder, well mixed 
together. Stir to a batter and pour into cakes on a hot griddle. 

101. NUTMEATO NO. I.— As a savory, to eat with rice as a 
vegetable, the following preparation will be good. Two and a half 
cups of any good strong cereal coffee, two cups of nut butter, one 
cup of corn starch and one teaspoonful of salt. Mix the corn starch, 
butter and salt first, then put in the coffee by adding a little at a 
time and mixing until smooth. Put into a can or dish with tight- 
fitting cover, and cook in a closed steamer from three to five hours. 
Sealed cans give better results and may be used if desired. The 
sunken lid self-sealing cans are convenient for the purpose. The 
contents will be firm and can be turned out whole by cutting off 
the bottom of can with can opener, and when cool may be cut into 
slices and served with boiled rice. 

102. NUTMEATO NO. 2.— One cup of nut butter, one cup of 
strained stewed tomatoes, half a cup of water, half a cup of corn 
starch or browned flour and salt to taste. Proceed as with No. 1. 

103. RICE WITH NUTMEATO.— Cook rice in salted water, 
having it the consistency desired. Cut nutmeato (101) into cubes and 
distribute it evenly through the rice. Cook slowly without stirring 
again. 

104. RICE FLOUR AS A MEDICINE.— Rice flour browned, 
makes a good food for babies with bowel trouble. Rice flour 
browned and mixed with olive oil makes a healing salve. Rice flour 
should be sprinkled over a wound that has proud flesh in it. 



THE RICE CURE. — The fact that rice can be digested, ordin- 
arily, in one hour should commend it to all persons with weak 
digestion and to such as do not take vigorous exercise. 

Food has a controlling influence on the temperament of nations. 
The restless energy that beef-eating nations possess may become 
a disease. A diet largely of rice will tend to restore those equable 



conditions which belong to a well balanced system. The quiet pa- 
tience of the Chinese and Japanese is due to rice. Irritable and 
nervous people should eat rice. The prevalent dyspepsia of Ameri- 
cans can be cured by making rice the staple food. 

ANALYSIS OF RICE POLISH.— Rice Polish is the delicate 
outer coating of the rice kernel, which is removed in the form of 
flour, under the polishing process. It contains on an average: 
Water io.o, ash 6.7, protein 11.7, fibre 6.3, nitrogen free extract 58.0, 
fat 7.3. This shows that it is rich in material for repairing the 
tissues of the body and for imparting heat and energy. It possesses 
high flavor and is easily digested. It is superlative food for the 
human family. Observe carefully the recipes and there will be 
added to the breakfast and dinner menu some most delicious and 
nutritive food. 

Rice polish as an article of general consumption in Northern 
States is in its experimental stage. Its keeping qualities have to 
be established, but its highly nutritive value is unquestioned and 
makes it worthy of extensive experiment. It will, we believe, 
become a valuable addition to the economic food resources of 
America. 

DR. J. H. KELLOGG.— In March, 1905, members of the Vege- 
tarian Society met Dr. J. H. Kellogg at the sanitarium, Wallace 
Street, Philadelphia. Among other subjects discussed was that of 
unpolished rice, when Dr. Kellogg said that unpolished rice was 
25 per cent, richer and more life-sustaining than the polished rice of 
the stores and he wanted to obtain it by the car load for making 
into puffed rice. 



ACKNOWLEDGMENT. 
For numerous suggestions, recipes, etc., which have enabled us to 
complete this little booklet, we are under obligations to the Penny 
Vegetarian Cookery (1849), Vegetarian Cookery by a Lady, 1849 
(English), and to Science in the Kitchen (Mrs. Kellogg's), Guide to 
Nut Cookery (Mrs. Lambert's), the Rice Cook Book of the Southern 
Pacific R.R. Co., The Rice Journal and Southern Farmer (Mrs. Prof. 
Knapp), and Therapeutic Dietetics (Hazeldine), American. " 



JAPANESE METHOD OF COOKING RICE.— Quantity of 
water varies according to the qualities of rice, but five parts of water 
to four of rice or six parts to five, by volume, will be common propor- 
tion, ist. Boil the water and then pour the rice, previously washed, 
into this boiling water, at the same time increasing the flame in furnace. 
The pan-cover must fit the pan edge as tightly as possible and also must 
be a heavy one, enough to withstand the high steam pressure in the 
pan, and if it is not heavy enough, put some weight on it. Keep the 
fire strong. In three or four minutes the steam pushes out of the 
pan ; but let the fire be strong for three or four minutes more, and then, 
as quickly as possible, withdraw the blazing fire (in case of wood fuel) 
or make the fire very mild (in the case of oil or gas kiln) and let the 
pan stand on little under fire or very mild flame for twenty or thirty 
minutes. Then remove the pan from the furnace and let it stand for 
ten minutes more. This is all the process. 

I hope you may try it. I think you can reach the right point after 
a few trials. Rice thus cooked is very delicious to the taste, and may 
be eaten by itself without any milk or sugar. 

Very respectfully yours, 

S. OTSUKA, 

Director of Imperial Kiusiu Agricultural Experiment Station. 



THE JAPANESE ARMY RATION.— The army ration in Japan 
is said to be 36 ounces of rice. When cooked, this quantity would 
weigh eight to ten pounds, an almost incredible amount of food for one 
day. 



UNPOLISHED RICE might be adopted as the chief food on 
American tables with great advantage in health and economy. 



BAKING POWDER.— Some of the recipes contain "Baking 
Powder" as one of the ingredients to be used. A correspondent objects 
that all baking powder contains alum. We are assured the Royal Bak- 
ing Powder is an exception in this respect, and that it does not contain 
any injurious properties, its true formula being printed on each label. 

We understand the Battle Creek Sanitarium Co. have a baking 
powder also that is unobjectionable. 

It is understood that each cook will modify recipes according to 
what is desirable and available. 



TESTIMONIALS. 

FROM SARAH TYSON RORER, 

April 18, 1905- 
n ATr rinbb- I am very glad to know that I can always 

K 1 tie markets, robbed ot a larje amount of ,t. normshment. 

Yours truly, 

SARAH TYSON RORER. 

3307 Mt. Pleasant Street, N. W., Washington, D. C. 

FROM MR. CHENWITH, DETROIT. 
The unpolished rice which we are now using is very fine. 

J. S. CHENWITH, 
450 Pennsylvania Avenue, Detroit, Mich. 



FROM DR. E. G. SMITH, DWIGHT, MASS. 
Thanks for your letter and the unpolished rice. It is fine. 
ELLEN GOODELL SMITH, Dwight, Mass. 



FROM OTTO CARQUE, CHICAGO. 
The rice sold in the United States to-day is unfit to eat and it 
will be a great boon to vegetarians if we can introduce natural rice 
which is e g q ual if not superior in many *^^£^ 

Pres. of Cosmos Pub. Co., 765 N. Clark St., Chicago. 



JUN 30 19C5 

FROM SHAKER COMMUNITY. 
Will you please send us one hundred pounds of unpolished rice? 

DANIEL OFFORD, 
Mt. Lebanon, N. Y., May 6, 1905. 



FROM MISS ELEANOR M. JONES. 

The peanuts were extra fine, and I am delighted with the (unpol 

ished) rice. 

MISS ELEANOR M. JONES, 

Quogue, L. L, N. Y., May 15, 1905. 



FROM DR. NORTON F. W. HAZELDINE. 

St. Louis, Mo., April 13, 1905. 
I have carefully read your lecture on "Unpolished Rice," and 
it is needless to say I endorse every word of it. 

I have found it a very difficult thing to obtain unpolished rice 
in this country, so confine myself to Chinese rice exclusively. It 
is a very small grain, rich in oil and of a most pleasant flavor. In- 
deed I prefer it to any rice and eat it twice every day. 

There is no doubt in my mind that rice is far more the ideal 
food than wheat, and where bread stuffs can injure the digestive 
activities, I have, never found that rice did. Also barley, which 
forms the chief staple of the Arab, comes next to rice as a perfect 
food stuff, it never producing digestive disturbances. 

I shall be most pleased to receive your new book and feel sure 
it will be of great interest and benefit to the work. With my kindest 
regards and best wishes, I am most cordially yours, 

NORTON F. W. HAZELDINE. 
Instructor in Physiological Culture and Dietetics, Studio 605 
Mermod Jaccard Building. 



, Letters of similar purport are frequently received from persons 
prominent in the food reform movement. 



VEGETARIAN SOCIETY SPECIALTIES 



RECENT PUBLICATIONS. 
The following booklets sent by mail from 
the office of the Vegetarian Society of Amer- 
ica, 1023 Foulkrod St., Frankford, Philadel- 
phia. Trade 50 per cent, discount. 

THIRTY-NINE REASONS WHY I AM 
A VEGETARIAN. This is the result of 
a life-long experience, and contains a con- 
densed outline of the Vegetarian System, with 
vignette of the author. By Rev. Henry S. 
Clubb. Ten one cent stamps. 

A SUMMARY OF ARGUMENTS FOK 
VEGETARIANISM, by Rev. Wm. Penn Al- 
cott. By mail five one cent stamps. 

A MAY FESTIVAL OF THE PHILA- 
DELPHIA VEGETARIAN SOCIETY, with 
vignette of Anita Trueman. Two one cent 
stamps. 

VEGETARIANISM FROM A BIBLE 
STANDPOINT, by Rev. EHery Robinson. 
Five one cent stamps. 

THE AMERICAN VEGETARIAN COOK- 
ERY. Two hundred and fifty recipes, com- 
piled by the Ladies of the Bible Christian 
Church. Fifteen one cent stamps. 

THE MESSAGE, every two months in 
the interest of the Bible Christian Church 
of Philadelphia, 25 cents a year; 5 cents 
a number. 



THE SECOND INTERNATIONAL 
VEGETARIAN CONGRESS, held at the 
La. Purchase Exposition, September, 1904 
with account of Health Food Commission. 
Ten one cent stamps. 

UNPOLISHED RICE THE STAPLE 
FOOD OF THE ORIENT, on which the 
Japanese Army won its great victories 
and performed its rapid marches,. A 
lecture by Rev. Henry S. Clubb, to which 
are added directions for cooking it, over 
one hundred recipes, testimonials, etc. Fif- 
teen one cent stamps. With sample of 
Unpolished Rice, by mail, 25 cents. 



y POLISH, five cents a pound, 
mail, 6 cents. See analysis in 
entitled, "Unpolished Rice, the 
' of the Orient." 



WHOLE V/HEAT GRAHAM FLOUR. 

This is made from the best and cleanest 
wheat procurable, and is milled so as to 
reduce the size of the bran, making it di- 
gestible and harmless to the mucus mem- 
brane. Made into bread or pastry, it is a 
sure cure and preventative of constipation 
and its attendant evils. In i-pound packages 
6 cents. In bulk 5 cents a pound. 



VEGETARIAN SOCIETY SOAP. 
There are two kinds of soap used by those 
who discard the use of animal fat, viz.: one 
made of kerosene and cocoanut fat, and the 
other a castile soap made of olive oil. Both 
are excellent toilet soaps, and the first is 
used for removing spots from clothes with 
great ease and little rubbing. Some prefer it 
for laundry purposes, especially for fine 
50 cents. 

a pound. Olive Oil Castile, bar of 4 pounds, 
linen. Sold at 5 cents a cake, 15 cents 



UNPOLISHED RICE. 
As unpolished rice contains 25 per cent, 
more fat and muscle-forming nourishment 
than polished rice, and has no paraffine on 
its surface, as much of the polished rice has, 
the Vegetarian Society has obtained a supply 
and will sell it as follows: Best head rice, 
8c. lb.; Samples by mail on receipt of 10 
cents, with lecture, 25 cents. 



PURE ITALIAN OLIVE OIL 
in sealed cans as imported from Italy, 60 cts. a 
quart, $2.50 a gallon, when ordered of the 

VEGETARIAN SOCIETY, 
1023 Foulkrod St., Frankford, Philadelphia 



HYGIENIC KAUGHPHY. 
This is Dr. Lovell's superior substitute for 
coffee. It has nearly the flavor, but without 
the stimulating effects of the coffee berry. 
Sold in 20-cent packages. 



THE VEGETARIAN SOCIETY 
will deliver a dollar's worth or more of any 
of its specialties, free of charge, to be called 
for at any j>i the railroad stations in Phila- 
delphia and vicinity, where the railroads de- 
liver packages to their patrons. Send cash 
for amount of goods desired, and state the 
station at which you will call for them. 

VEGETARIAN SOCIETY, 
1023 Foulkrod St., Philadelphia. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



The Vegetarian 

THIS MILL has been sei 
best mill for domestic use. 
ing nuts for nut meal or for nut 
to perfection 

WHOLE WHEAT 
GRAHAM FLOUR 



UNPOLISHED 

RICE FLOUR 

GRANOLA 

and other Health Foods 



The price is now reduced from $4.00 to $3*20 ; with improved 
hopper $3.85, on receipt of which the mill will be sent either from 
Philadelphia or from Chicago, as desired, when ordered from the 
VEGETARIAN SOCIETY OF AMERICA, Frankford, Philad'a. 





Every one who tastes the 
Nut Butter, made under direc- 
of the Vegetarian Society, by 
B. R. H. Clubb, will pro- 
nounce it the best nut butter 
obtainable. It is made of the 
highest grade Spanish pea- 
nuts, which are carefully 
hand-picked and made free 
from imperfect nuts or any 
foreign substance. Sold in 
glass jars at 15 cents, or air- 
tight cans at 30 cents each, 
four cans for $1.00. 




(023 Foulkrod Street, Philadelphia 



Sold by Up-to-date C 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 637 111 5 



