litti8ilMlgili«l^^^^^^^^^ 








Book. 



(x)pyright]^^_ 



CORflllGHT DEPOSIT. 



The Way to the Heart 

A COLLECTION OF 
TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES 



PREPARED AND ARRANGED BY 

CARRIE PICKETT MOORE 



Many men of many minds 
Is a rhyme of olden times ; 
But the minds of men to-day 
To good cooking find a luay. 



W 



RICHMOND, VIRGINIA 

Whittet & Shepperson, Publishers and Printers 
Nineteen-Fi've 



UBRAPYof OONGRtSS 
fwo Copies rteceivea 

DEC 29 1904 

x| Oouineni tmry 

CUSs Q-' AAc. Noi 
/ o ? 2.9 O 

COPY B. 



lA^ 



^ 



^^''^ 



Copyright 

BY 

CARRIE PICKETT MOORE, 
1905.. 



PREFACE. 

The following recipes have been tested, and I have found 
them correct in every proportion; also, mixing and serving. 
They are a collection of old Virginia recipes, many of them 
handed down and used for three generations. Having tried 
them, I feel justified in recommending them to the public as 
being safe and sure, that is, if the rules are carefully followed 
for mixing and preparing the dishes. All of them are not my 
own, some having been given me by old friends, but I have 
used them so successfully that I feel they belong to me by right 
of long usage. I trust the housekeeper into whose hands this 
little book may fall will find it a help to her, and that in the 
future it will make cooking a pleasure and not a care. 



CONTENTS. 



Soups, 

Oysters, 

Meats, 

Breads, 

Sauces and Catsups, . 
Pickles and Preserves, 
Vegetables, . . . . 

Pies, 

Puddings, 

Cakes 

Cream, Jellies, etc., . 

Salads, 

Various Dishes, . • 

Candies, 

Beverages, ... 
Miscellaneous, . . 
Index, . . . . • 



Page. 

9 

15 
19 

25 
33 
39 
59 
67 

75 

85 

105 

117 

. 125 

■ 133 

• 139 

• 145 
. 149 



ta, 



SOUPS. 



Cookery is become an art, a noble science." 

— Burton. 



Tested Virginia Recipes. 



SOUPS. 

We all know what makes the basis of a good soup. If we 
have a quart of well-made stock we can have a soup of the best 
kind in an hour's time. This stock can be made the day before 
using, and while hot poured into an earthenware bowl to cool ; 
when cold, skim the fat that has caked on top, and you can 
then add what vegetables are required. 

Stock is simply the foundation, and is made by boiling a 
shank of ham, or the trimmings from joints and cutlets, slowly 
in clear water until all the juice has been extracted. Slow boil- 
ing insures the results we look for. Remember that after the 
vegetables are added you must boil one hour, no more, season 
and serve at once. 

Vegetable Soup. ' 

Put a IOC. shank of beef in 6 quarts of water; boil for 3 
hours. Then add 3 carrots cut in dice; boil another hour; then 
add a can of tomatoes, 4 pods of okra, 4 Irish potatoes, a can 
of corn — or 4 ears of corn — i onion, pepper and salt, and boil 
half an hour more. Drop a bunch of herbs in the pot just before 
taking from the fire. 

Noodles for Soup. 

Take the yolks of 2 raw eggs, mix with flour enough to roll 
a stiff dough, roll into a thin sheet, sprinkle with flour and roll 
again. Cut into threads and drop in the boiling soup ; just 
cook through. This makes enough for soup from i chicken. 



10 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Potato Soup. 

One dozen large mealy potatoes, 2 onions, i pound salt pork, 
3 quarts water, i tablespoon of butter, i cup of milk, i egg. 
Chop the onion. Boil the pork in the water for an hour and 
a half. Strain. Have potatoes peeled and sliced. Throw into 
the pot with onion, cover and boil 45 minutes, stirring often. 
Beat into the egg the butter; add this to the soup, and stir 
well while it heats to a final boil. Serve at once. 

Chicken Soup. 

Dress and cut up a chicken. Boil it in 3 quarts of water 
until all the nutriment has been extracted, then add noodles 
and I tablespoon of rice. Flavor with celery seed, salt and 
pepper. 

Chicken Jelly. 

One chicken simmered in i quart of water until only i pint 
remains. Season with salt. Strain the juice from the chicken, 
and when cold skim off all oil that has formed over the top. 
if preferred hot, set in a pan of boiling water over the fire until 
thoroughly heated, and then serve. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 

Cut in small pieces the outside from 12 or 14 stalks of 
celery — save the inside for table use. Cover the bits with 
I pint of cold water ; bring to the boiling point and simmer 
half an hour. Drain and pass through a colander, using as 
nuich celery as will press through. Add to this i pint of milk. 
Put the whole into a double boiler and allow to heat. Rub 
together i tablespoon of butter and 2 of flour, and stir carefully 
into the soup. Stir and cook until smooth. Add a dash of 
celery salt, i of pepper, and serve. 



SOUPS. II 

Split Pea Soup. 

Take a quart of split pease and add 2 quarts of water. Let 
tliem boil until you can mash them through a colander, leaving 
the hulls separate. Put the soup on the fire again, with a 
generous slice of salt pork; if the pease are too thick for a 
second boiling, add a little hot water. Boil for i hour. Just 
before serving drop in i ounce of butter. Season with pepper 
and salt, beat well, and turn into a steaming tureen. 

Brunswick Stew. 

.The secret of a good Brunswick stew is long, slow boiling. 
It should be started early in the morning and allowed to boil 
for several hours. Take 2 good-size squirrels, 3 quarts of cold 
water, i onion, and a strip of bacon — not pork — and put them 
on to boil. It should boil 4 hours, unless the squirrel is very 
old and tough, in which case boil longer. When the meat has 
left the bones remove the pot and pick out every piece of 
bone and skin, leaving the meat in shreads. Add to this stock 
6 ears of corn cut from the cob, i quart of ripe tomatoes, i 
quart butter beans, 4 large Irish potatoes, and the juice of i 
lemon. Let this cook for another hour, stirring well to keep 
from burning. It should now be thick enough to eat with a 
fork, and is ready to serve. Add i tablespoon of Worcestershire 
sauce before serving. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 

Have your calf's head well cracked, and then remove the 
brains. After soaking in clear water, put it in the pot with a 
large onion and enough water to cover it. Add boiling water 
as the water boils down. Cook until the meat falls from the 
bone. Strain the liquor and throw the meat in it. Season to 
taste with pepper and salt, and add a dash of ground allspice. 



12 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

cloves and mace. Heat well again, as it cools while straining. 
Put 4 tablespoons of browned flour with 4 ounces of butter, 
and make force meat balls with i pint of veal chopped fine ; 
add a little thyme, salt and pepper. Fry brown and let them 
cool. -Chop fine 4 hard-boiled eggs and put them in the bottom 
of the tureen, drop in the balls and pour the soup over them. 
When the soup comes ofif the fire add i tumbler of port or 
claret and serve at once. 



OYSTERS. 

"Why, then, the world's mine oyster, 
Which I with sword will open." 

— Shakespeare. 



OYSTERS. 

Fried Oysters. 

Take firm, fresh oysters and cleanse them well ; dry and 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place 2 or 3 together, unless 
they are very large ; dip in a well-beaten egg, then in cracker 
dust, and fry in smoking hot lard. Garnish with points of lemon 
and parsley. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

After cleaning the oysters, drain and place on a dry cloth 
while you prepare the following: Make a cream gravy of i 
pint of milk, 2 tablespoons of flour and i tablespoon of butter. 
Use fancy shells to bake them in. Place a layer of oysters and 
then one of bread crumbs until the shells are well filled — they 
should hold about 6 or 7 large oysters ; sprinkle bits of celery 
and butter over the top, and pour over the whole 2 tablespoons 
of the cream dressing. Dust the top with crumbs and bake a 
delicate brown. 

Pigs in Blankets. 

Get the largest oysters possible and drain them from the 
liquor, discarding the small ones. Place 2 together, and wrap 
around them a long thin slice of bacon. After all the oysters 
have been dressed, fry the little pigs just as you would an 
ordinary slice of bacon. Serve on toast garnished with parsley. 

Pickle Oysters. 

Two quarts of oysters, 2 teacups vinegar, i tablespoon whole 
allspice, a few blades mace, i lemon, the peel from i orange, 
1 pod red pepper, salt to taste. Slip the oysters through your 



i6 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

fingers, removing all bits of shell that cling to them, and strain 
the liquor well. Throw them together again and stew until 
the oysters curl ; strain and throw in ice-cold water to plump 
them, changing the water twice. As they cool drain all water 
from them and drop in a stone jar. Put the vinegar, spice, peel 
and pepper to the hot juice and allow them to come to a boil; 
slice the lemon and chop the pepper pod in small pieces, and 
mix with the boiling liquor. Remove from the fire, and when 
lukewarm pour over the oysters and cover with a cloth. Good 
in 36 hours. If not sour enough, add a little more vinegar. 

Raw Oysters. 

Oysters must be kept in a very cold place before opening 
them ; but never allow them to freeze, for once frozen they 
quickly turn sour and are useless. They should be opened on 
the deep shell, so as to better preserve the liquor, the stabbing 
knife run under them and the shells placed on ice for a few 
minutes before serving. Arrange 6 shells on every plate, with 
a half lemon and a spoonful of grated horse-radish. Serve with 
anv small cracker or a nice salt wafer. 



MEATS. 



" Some books are to be tasted, others to be 
swallowed, and some few to be chewed 
and digested." — Bacon. 



MEATS. 

Scotch Collops. 

Take i pound of chopped beef and mix with it i chopped 
Onion, a Httle pepper and sah, and put it in a frying pan. When 
the meat has cooked through, thicken the gravy with a little 
browned flour, and serve on a flat dish, garnished with fried 
potato balls. 

Beef Balls. 

Run through a meat chopper enough beef to make i pint. 
xA.dd a little parsley, a sprig of thyme, i onion minced fine, i 
cup of fine bread crumbs, i well-beaten egg, pepper and salt. 
Make into small balls, roll in a beaten egg, then in cracker dust, 
and fry. 

To Boil a Ham. 

Any good ham can be improved by being cooked in the 
following way: Cover the ham well with water and add 2 
pounds brown sugar and half cup of Worcestershire sauce. Boil 
slowly half hour for every pound of meat, and let ham cool in 
the water. The next day cover the top with crumbs, sprinkle 
with pulverized sugar, and baste with cider while it bakes a 
rich brown. 

To Stuff a Ham. 

Boil an old Virginia ham (after soaking overnight) half an 
hour for every pound of meat. Take out of the water and place 
on a large dish, bringing the bone side on top. While hot take 
out all bone and remove the skin carefully. Turn the opening 
down and allow it to stand until the next day. What juice 
runs from it save for the filling. Now take an apple-corer and 



20 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

bore small holes through the whole ham, saving what comes 
from it. Fill the holes and the place where the bone came from 
with the following: Grate 4 5-cent loaves of baker's bread, 
using only the soft part; add to this i bunch of parsley, i 
bunch thyme, i onion, i teaspoon of sugar, 2 heaping teaspoons 
ginger, 4 teaspoons celery seed, 2 teaspoons mustard, 2 tea- 
spoons black pepper, i cup of drippings or butter and the ham 
that comes from the holes. Work the whole of it into the 
crumbs. Stufif every available place, and what stuffing is left 
work into the fat on top. The amount can easily be used, 
although it seems a great deal when you start to work filling it. 
Place the ham on a flat pan and rub the top with the white of 
an egg and bake. This should be kept several days before using 
to allow the seasoning to go all through the meat. 

Ham Balls. 

Take cold ham and chop fine. To every pint of ham add i 
pint of bread crumbs and 4 well-beaten eggs, salt and pepper 
to taste. Mix well and shape in little balls the size of an egg. 
Dip in egg and fry as you would a croquette. Dress the dish 
with potato chips and lettuce leaves. 

Breaded Chops. 

Take i tablespoon of butter and melt it, place in the pan 
with what chops you wish to bread, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and let them soak in the butter while you beat the eggs. 
Dip each chop first in the egg, and then in the cracker dust, 
and broil over a slow fire to prevent burning. Place on a dish 
and pour over them a gravy made of i teacup of hot water, 
I teaspoon melted butter, i tablespoon of milk, pepper and salt. 
The flour must be browned for the gravy. Serve with French 
pease and garnish with cubes of fried potatoes. 



MEATS. 21 

A Sweet Lamb Stew. 

Take what cold meat you have left from the boiled mutton 
of the day before, and cut it into pieces about an inch square. 
To 3 quarts of chopped meat put i quart of water, and heat 
well. When hot add i cup preserved plums or damsons, 3 
large pickled cucumbers and a dash of red pepper. Boil 10 
minutes, and if the gravy is too thin, thicken with a little 
browned flour. It is now ready to serve. 

Fried Chicken. 

Prepare the chicken the day before and place on ice until 
ready to cook, sprinkling a little salt over it. Make a batter 
of I quart of flour, 2 well-beaten eggs, i ounce of butter, and 
enough milk to make a thick batter. Wipe the chicken dry 
and dip each piece in the batter and fry a golden brown. Serve 
with mush cakes, fried until they are crisp and yellow. 

Mush Cakes. 

Sift I pint of meal with a little salt in it. Beat i egg and 
a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and i good teaspoon of 
lard into it. Add enough milk to make the meal hold together, 
and shape in a long roll. Place on ice until chilled, and then 
cut into cakes and fry. 

Pressed Chicken. 

Quarter a fowl and simmer until tender; remove all skin 
and bone and cut very fine. To the liquor, freed of all fat and 
boiled down until only i cup remains, add }i oi a box of granu- 
lated gelatine, soaked in i cup of cold M^ater. Heat and dissolve. 
Season with salt and pepper and 2 tablespoons of Worcester- 
shire sauce. Add the chopped meat and mix well. Pour into 
oblong moulds and decorate with sliced hard-boiled eggs. Set 
on ice to harden. 



22 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Chicken Fritters. 

Cut left-over chicken into small pieces ; season with salt 
and pepper. To every cup of minced meat allow Yz cup of 
cream, i egg and enough flour to make a batter that will hold. 
Fry and serve as a luncheon dish. 

Chicken Fried with Cream Gravy. 

Cut chicken in the usual way for frying. Salt, pepper and 
flour them, and fry a delicate brown. Remove from the pan, 
strain the grease to get rid of all burnt pieces, and add a cup 
of sweet milk to it, and allow it to stew 5 minutes. Thicken 
with a little flour and pour over the chicken just before serving. 

Stuffing for Fowls. 

Chop fine J^ pound beef suet; mix with it i pound of bread 
crumbs, 3 ^rays parsley, i teaspoon of thyme, ^ onion chipped, 
and 2 well-beaten eggs. This makes an excellent stuffing for 
fowls of any kind. 

Stuffing for Ducks. 

In roasting ducks, fill the bread dressing with onions and 
celer}^, add a tablespoon or two of creamed Irish potato. This 
makes it light and fluffy. Roast as usual, and place a large 
bunch of curly parslc)^ under one end, surrounding the rest of 
the dish v/ith halves of blood oranges that have been pulled 
apart and laid back in the cups. Serve one cup with each piece 
of duck. 

Chestnut Stuffing. 

Boil I pint of chestnuts and mash through a potato press. 
Mix with I pint of bread crumbs, 2 tablespoons butter, i tea- 
spoon pepper, and salt to taste. When used as a stuffing for 
ducks, add 2 baked apples and a little nutmeg. 



BREADS. 



'The very staff of my age, my very prop." 

— Shakespeare. 



BREADS. 

The following two recipes for yeast and sponge were given 
me when first 1 began cooking by a friend noted for her beau- 
tiful bread, and I can recommend them as the best : 

Yeast. 

One-half pint of hot mashed potatoes, i gill of salt, i gill 
of sugar, I gill of flour, ^ pint of hops (measured lightly), 
2J/2 quarts boiling water, y^ cake of compressed yeast. Put 
hops in a stew-pan with ^ pint of boiling water and boil for 
20 minutes. Mix potatoes, flour, sugar and salt and strain hop 
water on them. Beat this mixture well and add the 2 quarts 
of boiling water. Let it stand until it is barely warm, then 
add the yeast cake, dissolved in ]/2. cup of water. Cover the 
bowl and let it stand for 24 hours. Skim and stir the yeast 
several times. Put in a 2-quart preserving jar, fill only two- 
thirds full and cork. Keep in a cool place and shake before 
using. 

Sponge. 

For I quart of fiour: Two large potatoes, boiled until soft, 
mash and add >4 pint of cold water, 3'J^ tablespoons of flour 
(from quart), ^ cup of yeast or ^ an yeast cake. Add j^ 
teaspoon of sugar when ready to make the bread. Set sponge 
in a warm place, behind the stove, to rise. In warm weather 
anywhere in the kitchen is warm enough. Sponge takes i hour 
to rise in summer and 2 hours in winter. Make sponge about 
6 : 30 for morning's bread. 



26 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Light Bread. 

Sift I quart of flour and add a full teaspoon of salt, lard 
the size of a walnut and the sponge. Work for 20 minutes and 
put in a jar, which must be slightly greased, to rise. Make 
this up about 8 P. M. Next morning, 2 hours before needed, 
turn the dough out on a tray and work for 10 minutes, using 
a little flour if necessary on the tray. Make in shapes and set 
aside until they have risen to nearly three times their original 
size. Bake in a quick oven. Grease the tops once while baking. 
If the bread is too stiff when you mix it, add a little warm 
water, but be careful not to make it too soft, as the best bread 
should be a stiff dough and worked until it becomes soft. 

Corn Bread. 

()ne pint of cornmeal, 3^ pint sweet milk, i egg, lard size 
of an egg, i dessertspoon of yeast powder, i teaspoon of salt. 
.Sift meal and powder, add salt and lard. Beat the egg and 
pour milk over, beating the liquid into the meal. Place the 
batter in a square pan and bake slowly. 

Corn Pone. 

One quart of meal, i tablespoon of lard, i tablespoon of 
butter, I teaspoon of salt, and water to make a stiff dough. 
Form into oblong pones a finger long. Pat each one on top, 
leaving the print of your fingers on them, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. If possible, do not open the door until they are 
done, as it hardens the crust. 

Batter Bread. 

Two teacups of cornmeal, 2 teaspoons of salt, i kitchen 
tablespoon lard. Mix and add boiling water enough to make 



BREADS. 



27 



a stiff batter. Stir until well mixed. When cold this mixture 
should be stiff enough to slowiy move when the bowl is tilted. 
Let it stand for 2 hours. Just before meal time add i egg and 
2 teaspoons baking powder, and milk to make a stiff batter. 
It should be the consistency of cake batter. Stir well and bake 
in a quick oven. The pans should be about 2 inches full before 
baking. 

Spoon Corn Bread. 

One cup boiled rice (or "grits), 2 cups meal, i large cup 
milk, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons of melted butter, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder. Mix as you would any other batter bread, and bake 
Yi an hour in a baking dish. 

Risen Muffins. 

Three eggs, i cooking spoon of yeast, 2 teaspoons of sugar, 
Yi. pint of milk, i quart flour, i teaspoon of salt, butter and lard, 
each size of an ^^Z- Beat together eggs, yeast and sugar, then 
milk and the sifted flour, and lastly the melted butter and lard. 
Rise overnight. Beat once or twice in the morning, and half 
fill muffin cups and set to rise. The dough should be stiffer 
than pound cake. The success of these muflins depends on the 
beating you give them in the morning before they rise the 
second time. 

For Sally Lunn use the same batter and bake in a large 
mould. 

Beaten Biscuits. 

One quart of flour, i heaping teaspoon of salt, 3 gills of 
milk, 2 heaping tablespoons of butter and lard mixed. Work 
thoroughly all the grease into the flour, and mix with the milk 
into a stiff dough. Put through a biscuit break for 15 minutes, 
then beat until they blister. Roll, cut, and bake in a moderate 
oven. 



28 TESfED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Waffles Without Eggs. 

One quart of flour, i pint of milk, i tablespoon of butter, 
a pinch of salt, i tablespoon of yeast. Warm the milk and 
butter and mix with the flour, then beat in the yeast and set to 
rise. Fry in wafile irons. 

Brown Bread. 

One quart of brown flour, i egg, i cup of yeast, ^ cup of 
molasses, butter size of an egg. Mix as for light bread the night 
before and bake in a loaf the next morning. 

Quick Sally Lunn. 

One quart of flour, ^^ cup of butter, 3 eggs, i cup milk, 3 
teaspoons of baking powder, 2 tablespoons of sugar. Mix as 
you would any other Sally Lunn batter and bake at once in 
a rather quick oven. 

Palias Royal Biscuits. 

One pound of eggs, i pound of sugar, ^ pound of flour. 
Beat whites and yolks separately. Then stir together; add 
sugar and the grated rind of i lemon and the flour. Drop in 
square tins, sift pulverized sugar over them and bake in a quick 
oven, 

Juliet's Pop-Overs. 

Beat 2 eggs without separating them ; add i cup of milk. 
Put 1 cup of flour into another bowl, and' add to it gradually the 
eggs and milk. Beat until smooth, and strain the batter through 
a strainer. Put at once into hot greased gem pans, and bake 
in a moderate oven 45 minutes. They should swell in baking 
to four times their original bulk. 



BREADS. 29 

Luncheon Gems. 

Separate 2 eggs, add to the yolks 3^ pint of milk and i cup 
of cooked rice which has gotten cold. Beat well and add Yz 
teaspoon of salt, i teaspoon of baking powder and i cup of 
chopped dates. Sift into this 1^/2 cups of flour and the whites 
of the eggs. Bake in gem pans and serve hot. 

Fruit Loaf. 

One pound of flour, 2 ounces of lard, 2 eggs, 2 ounces of 
sugar, Yz pint of milk, ^ teaspoon each of ground allspice, 
cloves and cinnamon, ^ pound of seeded raisins, ^ pound 
currants, ^4 pound of blanched almonds, cut in half. Make a 
dough as for loaf bread, using all ingredients except the fruit. 
Put down to rise, and when double its size, work a second time 
and add the fruit. Put down to rise again, and bake in a .loaf 
when it has risen to twice its bulk. It takes longer than loaf 
bread to rise and to bake. 

Cinnamon Buns. 

Take any good loaf bread dough and, after the first rise, roll 
out on the biscuit board and sprinkle well with pulverized sugar 
and cinnamon. Spread thickly over the top a good coating 
of sweet butter. Now strew on this a cup of currants and 
another of sifted sugar and cinnamon. Roll in a lengthwise 
piece and cut in pieces an inch thick. Place the buns in a pan 
so they touch, and let them rise well a second time. When 
ready to bake, butter the top and dust with sugar, and bake 
as other bread. 

Powder Biscuit. 

One quart of flour, i teaspoon of salt, 3 teaspoons of baking 
powder, i tablespoon of lard, i pint of sweet milk. Sift together 



30 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

flour, salt and powder. Run in the lard as for pastry, and add 
the milk, working as little as possible to mix thoroughly. Flour 
the rolling board. Roll and cut about an inch thick. Bake in 
quick oven. 

Thin Biscuits. 

Two quarts of flour, i pint of sweet milk, yolks of 3 eggs. 
Mix well and roll as thin as possible. Cut with a round cake 
cutter, and roll each biscuit again as thin as a wafer. Stick with 
a fork and bake as you would any other biscuit. 

Potato Rolls. 

One and a half pounds of Irish potatoes, 6 ounces of lard, 
lYz pounds of flour, 1^2 gills of yeast, i e.gg, a good teaspoon 
of salt. Prepare the potatoes as for table use, and when cold 
break in them the &gg. Stir in the lard and yeast, also the salt. 
Work in the flour and let it rise. When light put on the board 
and mould into rolls, and let it rise again. Bake as you would 
other bread. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

Three-fourths of a pound of buckwheat, j^ oi a. pound of 
cornmeal, i teaspoon of sugar, i}4 pints of milk, nearly a gill 
of yeast, salt. Beat well together and let rise overnight. Fry 
cakes the next morning without stirring down. Eat with maple 
syrup or a burnt molasses sauce. 

Royal Corn Bread. 

One pint cornmeal, i pint boiling water, i pint boiling milk, 
6 eggs (beaten separately), i teaspoon salt. The batter will be 
thin and light before baking. Use a deep pan to bake it in. 
To be used as soon as taken from the oven. 



SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 

"Who pepper'd highest was surest to please." 

— Goldsmith. 



SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Take i bushel ripe tomatoes and cut them in half. Pour 
over them 3 quarts of hot water, and throw in a handful ot 
peach leaves and 10 onions. Boil for an hour, or until the 
tomatoes have boiled to pieces ; then strain and pour the liquid 
back in the boiler with 2 ounces of allspice, 2 ounces of ground 
pepper, 2 ounces of mustard, i ounce of cloves, 2 grated nut- 
megs, 2 pounds of brown sugar, and 3 pints of vinegar to every 
5 pints of juice, and }^ pint of salt. Mix well and boil for 2 
hours, stirring to keep from burning. If the 2 hours' boiling 
does not make it thick enough, let it cook awhile longer. Strain 
and seal in small bottles. 

Grape Catsup. 

One quart of ripe purple grapes. Place in a stew-pan and 
cover with vinegar; cook until soft enough to strain through 
a fine sieve. Add to the strained juice i teaspoon of ground 
cloves, I teaspoon of cinnamon and i pint of brown sugar. Boil 
an hour and bottle when cold. 

Lemon Catsup. 

Twelve large lemons, 4 tablespoons white mustard seed, i 
tablespoon of tumeric, i tablespoon of pepper, a pinch of salt, 

1 tablespoon of cloves, a pinch of cayenne, i tablespoon of mace, 

2 tablespoons of sugar, 2 tablespoons of grated horse radish 
and I shallot chopped. Squeeze the lemons, grate the rind, 
pound the spice, and mix all together. Strew the salt over the 



34 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

whole thing and let stand 2 hours in a cool place. Boil i^ hour 
and pour off in a covered vessel. Leave for 2 weeks, stirring 
every day. Strain and bottle. Seal. 

Walnut Catsup. 

Select walnuts that can be pierced with a needle. Prick 
them and lay in a jar with a handful of salt to every 25 walnuts, 
and cover with water. Break with a billet of wood, and allow 
them to stay in the brine for 2 weeks, stirring once a day. 
Drain off the liquor and cover walnuts with boiling vinegar. 
Crush to a pulp and strain through a colander. Allow to every 
quart i ounce each of cloves, black pepper and ginger, and 3/2 
ounce of grated nutmeg, pinch of cayenne, i shallot, minced, 
and I teaspoon of celery seed tied in a bag. Boil for an hour 
(if it amounts to a gallon). Bottle when cold. 

Seasoning for Gravies. 

One ounce mustard, ^ ounce of salt, ^ ounce of ground 
black pepper, 3^ ounce cayenne, i ounce ground cinnamon, ^ 
ounce allspice, i ounce ginger, 14 pound coriander seed, j.4 
pound tumeric. Mix and keep in a well-corked bottle. To be 
used for seasoning. 

Celery Vinegar. 

Twelve stalks of fresh celery, 34 pound of celery seed, i 
quart best vinegar, i tablespoon salt, i tablespoon sugar. Cut 
celery into small pieces and put it with the seed into a jar. 
Scald the salt and vinegar and pour over the stalks and seed 
Let it cool and put away in tightly-corked bottles. In 2 weeks 
strain and seal in small bottles. 

Green Tomato Sauce. 

Slice I peck of green tomatoes and let them remain covered 
with salt for 24 hours ; then press them from the brine and 



SAUCES AND CAPSUPS. 35 

rinse in clear water, spreading them on flat dishes for 15 
minutes. Take i ounce of black pepper, i ounce of cloves, 
I ounce of ginger, i ounce of allspice, and beat them fine. Add 
4 ounces of white mustard seed and i pound of brown sugar. 
Put all ingredients with the tomatoes in a preserving kettle and 
cover with vinegar. Stew i hour from the time they boil. Slice 
6 onions and boil with the mixture, if you don't object to the 
onion flavor, as it improves the sauce very much. When the 
tomatoes come out of the brine taste them, and if too salty, 
rinse again. 

Ripe Tomato Sauce. 

Nine pounds ripe tomatoes, 4 pounds brown sugar, i table- 
spoon of pepper, i tablespoon of cloves, i tablespoon allspice 
and I tablespoon of salt. Cover with vinegar and boil to a 
thick jam. 

Pepper Sauce. 

Four dozen pepper pods (red or green), 5 large onions cut 
fine, a handful of garlic, i tablespoon of horse radish, 2 quarts 
of vinegar and i of water. Boil all together until pepper pods 
can be mashed through a sieve. Then add 4 teaspoons of salt, 
I of allspice and Yz of cloves. Boil well ; strain and bottle. 
This is an excellent seasoning for soups and gravies, taking 
the place of Worcestershire sauce and tasting very much like it. 

Egg Sauce. 

Beat together ^ cup of butter and 4 tablespoons of flour. 
Pour on this ^ pint of boiling water and place over the fire. 
Stir well until it thickens, and add 2 hard-boiled eggs chopped 
fine. Use as a sauce for fish and boiled mutton. 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 

"Peter Pepper picked a peck of pickled peppers." 

— Nursery Rhyme. 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 



Pickled Onions. 

Scald I gallon of silver-skin onions — small ones are the 
best — and sprinkle them with salt, first putting in a layer of 
onions and then one of salt, and let them stand for 24 hours. 
Drain them, wash well, and cover with clear water for 4 hours. 
Then put them in a stone jar and fill with pure vinegar. Let 
them stand for 3 days ; then take out of the plain vinegar and 
cover with the following: Four quarts of strong vingear, 5 
pounds brown sugar, i ounce of allspice, i ounce of cloves, 
^ ounce of mace, i ounce of celery seed, y^ ounce of coriander 
seed, 34 ounce of black pepper, ^ ounce of mustard seed. Pound 
in a riiortar until all ingredients are broken and mixed well. 
Boil and set away to cool. When lukewarm pour over the 
onions and tie a cloth over the jar. 

Cucumbers. 

Take 2 gallons of small ripe cucumbers and throw in brine 
that will bare an ^^%, allowing them to remain 3 days. Drain 
from the brine, and green with a lump of alum and enough 
water to cover them well; spread over the top large grape 
leaves, and when the cucumbers begin to turn yellow, lift them 
out with a strainer and throw into cold water until they lose 
their salty taste. Cover with plain vinegar for 3 days. Take 
a large stone jar and put in it a layer of cucumbers and one 
of onions, then a layer of spice and one of brown sugar, 
and repeat until the jar is full. Fill with vinegar, covering 
well. Tie a cloth over the jar and set in a preserving kettle 



40 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

of cold water. As the water boils away, fill with hot water. 
The kettle must be on the back of the stove, where it will not 
Doil, but simmer for 4 hours. Boiling ruins the pickles and 
makes them shrivel. The proportions for the vinegar,^ sugar 
and spice is the same as for onions. Use the onions that you 
prepared in the spring to fill the jars. 

Cucumbers Made in Molasses. 

Put cucumbers in brine for 3 days; strain and soak in water 
for 2 hours. Put in a kettle and add the following: One-half 
pound of brown sugar, 3 pods of red pepper, i dessertspoon of 
pulverized alum and enough vinegar, weakened with water till 
the sharpness is removed, to cover them. Cover with grape 
leaves and scald well; avoid boiling. Put in a jar and let 
stand 2 days. Throw the old vinegar away and make a new 
covering for them of 3 pints of vinegar, ^ teacup of celery 
seed, Yz teacup of mustard seed, i teacup of molasses, i pound 
of brown sugar, i ounce of allspice, i ounce of cloves, Yz ounce 
of black pepper, ^ ounce of mace. Boil well, and when cold 
pour over the cucumbers. 

Good Proportions for Pickling. 

One-half ounce each of cloves, allspice, mace, black pepper, 
celery seed and ginger, i ounce of mustard seed, ^ pound of 
brown sugar and i quart of vinegar. Boil up once or twice and 
allow to cool, unless otherwise directed. When pickling plums 
or damsons, prick them with a needle three or four times to 
keep them from shrinking. 

Chow Chow. 

Half peck green tomatoes, i hard head cabbage, 8 onions, 
I peck small onions, 100 small cucumbers, ^ pint grated horse 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 41 

radish, ^4 pound mustard seed, 3^ ounce celery seed, ^ teacup 
of ground black pepper, ^^ teacup tumeric, Va, teacup cinnamon, 
2 pounds brown sugar, 3 quarts of vinegar, ^ pound mustard, 
y^ pint of olive oil. Cut the large onions, tomatoes and cab- 
bage in pieces. Mix well with small onions and cucumbers 
and pack down in salt overnight. In the morning drain off the 
brine and soak in vinegar 2 days. Drain again and mix the 
spice and new vinegar with the sugar; boil and pour over the 
pickle while hot. Repeat for three successive days, letting the 
vinegar only come to a boil each time. The third day mix 
the mustard and oil as for a dressing, and add it to the prepared 
vinegar. Do not add the horse radish until all the boiling has 
been done. Commence on Monday and finish on Saturday. 

Yellow Pickle. 

Prepare onions, cucumbers and cabbage as for plain pickle, 
and pour over them the following spiced vinegar : 2^ gallons 
of vinegar, 7 pounds of brown sugar, ^ box of mustard, i pound 
of mustard seed, i pound white ginger, y^ pound white pepper, 
]/2 pound tumeric, 2 ounces of cloves, 2 nutmegs (grated), 2 
ounces of mace, 2 ounces of allspice, 3 ounces celery seed, i 
pound horse radish and 4 lemons (sliced). Boil all together 
and pour over the onions, cucumbers and cabbage. 

Yellow Cabbage Pickle. 

One peck of cabbage, cjuarter and put down with a layer of 
salt. Let it stand all night, and next day press, draining all 
the salt from it. Put the. cabbage in the kettle and cover with 
vinegar and boil for an hour ; then add 2 dozen onions that have 
been in vinegar, i ounce tumeric, 2 ounces celery seed, i tea- 
spoon of cayenne pepper, 3 pounds brown sugar, and boil up 
once. When cold mix a box of mustard as for use and add to 
the pickle. 



42 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Mustard Pickle. 

Take all Kinds of made pickle and pour over it, while hot, 
I quart of vinegar, 2 teaspoons of tumeric, i tablespoon of mus- 
tard, I of sugar, I of salt, i of flour, i of cloves (ground), i 
teaspoon of mace, and a little red pepper. Boil all together and 
pour over the pickle. Good for use in two months. 

Mustard Chow Chow. 

Make a strong brine, and into it drop i cauliflower, divided 
in clusters, a gill of small onions, a gill of string beans, 3 green 
tomatoes, 3 large cucumbers (sliced crosswise), ^ pint of small 
gherkins and 2 long red peppers. Leave for three days, and 
then wash in cold water and pour fresh water over them ; let 
them stand tor 12 hours. Make a pickle of 2 quarts of vinegar, 
y2 teaspoon each of celery seed, white mustard seed, horse rad- 
ish, cloves and mace, i teaspoon of tumeric, 2 dessertspoons of 
ground mustard, and i small teacup of brown sugar. Boil for 
a minute, put over the vegetables and simmer for 5 minutes. 
It not sweet enougn, add a little sugar. Take ofT the fire and 
put in a jar lor 24 hours. Drain off the vinegar and add 2 tea- 
spoons of Curry powder. Boil up once, and when lukewarm 
pour over the pickle. Seal the next day in small jars. 

Ripe Tomato Pickle. 

One peck of ripe tomatoes, sliced and put down in I/2 pint 
of salt for 24 hours. Strain well and add the following to them. 
Slice I quart onions, 5^ pound brown sugar, 3^ ounce of celery 
seed, i^ pound mustard seed, ]/\ pound ground mustard. Make 
a layer of tomatoes and one of spice and sugar, and cover the 
wliole with the best vinegar. Before adding the mustard mix 
it with a small amount of olive oil. Make as late in the fall 
as possible. 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 43 

Chopped Pickle. 

Sprinkle with salt Yz gallon of green tomatoes. Let them 
stand for 2 hours ; then drain and add i gallon of chopped 
cabbage, i pint of green peppers (take out all of the seed), 

1 quart of chopped onions, i tablespoon of ground cloves, i 
tablespoon of ground cinnamon, 2 tablespoons of celery seed, 
4 tablespoons of mustard seed, 2 pounds brown sugar and 2 
quarts of vinegar. Mix and boil for Y^ an hour. 

Gherkins. 

Prepare the gherkins as you would cucumbers, and use the 
same amount of vinegar, spice and sugar. They can be mixed 
with the onions and cucumbers when they are put on for the 
final cooking, alternating with them. 

Plain Mangoes. 

Soak in brine 6 days small mangoes, then throw in clear 
water for 6 hours. Put the mangoes in a deep kettle, and add 

2 quarts of water and i pint of vinegar and a lump of alum the 
size of a walnut. Let them just come to a boil, and then drop 
in cold water until they are cold through and through. Cover 
with vinegar for 3 days, drain, wipe dry and stuff with equal 
proportions of chopped cabbage, sliced tomatoes and chopped 
onions, seasoned with all the dififerent spice, brown sugar and 
vinegar. Use the same recipe for this filling that is used in 
chopped pickle, but use before it has been cooked. Fill the 
mangoes and sew up with a strong thread. Make a pickle 
vinegar as for cucumbers, and when boiling drop the mangoes 
in it ; stand an hour on the back of the stove, but don't let them 
boil, as it shrivels them. In a week boil the vinegar again and 
pour over the mangoes. Good in twelve months. 



44 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Oil Mangoes. 

Pour boiling water and salt over the mangoes and cover 
up until the next day ; then cut a slit and remove the seed and 
put in new brine that will float an egg. Cover with cabbage 
leaves, turn a plate, and put a weight on them ; allow them 
to remain for 6 days. Drain off the salt and water, put in jars, 
and cover with vinegar for a week, then stuff' with the follow- 
ing: Wash I pound of white ginger, pour boiling water over 
it and let it stand 24 hours ; slice thin and dry it. Add to this 
T pound of mustard seed, i pound horse radish (scraped and 
dried), i pound chopped onions, i ounce of mace, i ounce of 
grated nutmeg, 2 ounces of tumeric, i handful whole black 
pepper. Make into a paste with Y^ pound of French Mustard 
and I large cup of olive oil. This will fill 40 mangoes. ]\Iake 
a good strong vinegar, as for any other pickle, and cover the 
mangoes with it. 

Peach Mangoes. 

Peel clingstone peaches and take out the stone with a sharp 
penknife. Mince fine 3 soft peaches, 2 slices of preserved 
ginger, about as much preserved orange peel as would come 
from I orange, i tablespoon of celery seed, i teaspoon of cori- 
ander seed, 6 canned strawberries and 12 pickled cherries. Stuff" 
the peaches with the prepared mixture and sew with a fine 
thread. To every 2 pounds of fruit allow i pound of white 
sugar and ^ pint of vinegar. Make a syrup, and while hot 
pour over the peaches. Repeat the boiling for 3 days, and the 
last day add T ounce each of cloves, allspice, mace, cinnamon 
and ginger. Tie the spice in a thin muslin bag to keep the 
syrup clear. Don't put the bag of spice in with the pickle, but 
throw it away, unless the spice seem very strong, in which case 
it can be used again. 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 45 

Sweet Peach Pickle. 

reel 8 pounds of peacnes and throw them in cold water to 
keep from turning dark. Take 4 pounds of white sugar and 
4 teacups of water and let come to a boil. Throw in the peaches 
and cook until a straw will stick in them easily. Take out and 
measure the syrup, and allow for every pint of syrup i pint of 
strong vinegar and i tablespoon each of whole cloves, allspice 
and mace. When the syrup has gotten thick, pour over the 
peaches and seal tight. Good in three months. Always use 
white sugar, as brown sugar will turn the pickle sour in nine 
cases out of ten. 

Small pears can be pickled in the same way. 

Pickled Damsons. 

Eight pounds of, damsons, 3 pounds of sugar, }^ ounce each 
of cinnamon, allspice, cloves and mace, 3 pints of vinegar. 
Wash the fruit and stick each one with a needle. Place in a 
large bowl and boil the vinegar, sugar and spice, and pour over 
the damsons while hot. Cover with a cloth and set aside until 
the next da}^ ; repeat for 2 days, and then put the fruit on the 
fire with the vinegar and let them cook until they split. Strain 
and boil the juice to a thick syrup and pour on the pickle. Seal 
in air-tight jars and use as a winter pickle. The spice must be 
ground and tied in a muslin bag. 

Pickled Plums. 

Use the large wild goose plum, pricking them 2 or 3 times 
with a needle, and pickle as you would damsons. 

Crab-Apple Pickle. 

When you preserve crab-apples, divide them while hot and 
spice half in the following way : To every 2 quarts of preserves 



46 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

add Yz pint of sharp vinegar and i teaspoon of cloves, i tea- 
spoon of allspice and i teaspoon of cuinamon. Boil until a 
thick syrup forms, and seal in small jars. If not sour enough, 
add more vinegar that has been boiled, and pour on while hot. 
ine spice must be pulverized. 

Spiced Currants. 
Pick and pull from the stems 4 pounds of currants. Take 
23^2 pounds ot white sugar, i pint of vinegar and i tablespoon 
o± cloves and 2 tablespoons of cmnamon, and boil for ^ an hour. 
Pour over the currants while steaming hot ; return to the fire 
and boil up once, and bottle for use. They are a delightful 
addition to game of any sort, and take the place of jelly. 

Spiced Cherries. 

Clip the stems half way down, and throw the cherries in 
salt and water for 12 hours. Drain and drop in plain vinegar 
for a day and night ; pour this off and make a spiced vinegar 
of 2 quarts of vinegar, 3^2 pounds brown sugar, 1 ounce mace, 
i^ ounces mustard seed, i ounce allspice, i ounce grain pepper 
and I ounce celery seed. Scald and pour over the cherries when 
half cold. Scald vinegar again the next morning and pour over 
cherries, and tie a cloth over the jar. Ready for use in a month. 

Watermelon Pickle. 

Four pounds of rind, cut and peeled ; boil in water until 
tender ; drain and wipe dry. Boil 3 pounds of brown sugar, 
3 pints of vinegar, 3^ ounce each of cloves and cinnamon (tied 
in a bag), for three mornings, and pour hot over the rind. Then 
seal for use. 

Sweet Canteleup Pickle. 

Take ripe canteleups and cut them as for eating. Place over 
the slices vinegar enough to cover them, and let stand 36 hours. 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 47 

Measure the vinegar, and to every pint allow i pound of brown 
sugar and Yz teacup of cloves and cinnamon mixed ; boil the 
vinegar for ^ an hour, keeping it well skimmed ; then add the 
slices and boil until clear. Put the slices into a jar, and boil the 
syrup until it gets thick, and then pour over the melons. Pre- 
pare more vinegar and add to the pickle if the other is not 
enough to cover it. Must be kept for six months before using. 

Sweet Watermelon Rind Pickle. 

Peel the rinds with a sharp knife that will take off the green 
skin evenly. Trim off all the pink part, as it is too soft to make 
a firm, crisp pickle. Then cut the rind in strips about an inch 
square, and place them in an earthenware dish, sprinkle with 
salt, cover the dish, and let it stand all night. In the morning 
drain off all water that has formed and throw them into cold 
water ; let stand, changing the water once or twice, until they 
lose their salty taste. Cook in a steamer until a broom splint 
will readily pierce them. When the rinds are tender, take out 
carefully and throw in a stone jar. Take cidar vinegar, and 
allow I pound of sugar to every pint of vinegar, and J^ ounce 
of stick cinnamon broken in pieces, and ^ teaspoon each of 
whole cloves and mace. One quart of vinegar is enough to 
pickle an ordinary-sized melon. Boil the vinegar, sugar and 
spice together for y^ hour, skimming off the froth, and while 
hot pour over the rinds. Press down by means of an earthen- 
ware plate and fasten the cover on. Will be ready for use in 
two weeks. 

Pickled Eggs. 

Boil 6 eggs for 20 minutes, and throw them in cold water. 
Remove the shells and put in a jar with 6 freshly boiled beats 
that have been sliced. Scald enough vinegar to cover them, and 
add 2 teaspoons of celery seed, 4 pepper corns, i teaspoon of 



48 TESTED VlkOINIA RECIPES. 

mustard seed and a few blades of mace. Fill the jar with the 
pickle and seal at once. They are nice to use in garnishing a 
dish of salad. 

Good Proportions for Preserving. 

1 pound of damsons, Use i pound of brown sugar. 

I pound of pineai^ple, Use ^4 pound of white sugar. 

I pound of cherries, Use ^ pound of white sugar. 

I pound Oi strawberries Use ^ pound of white sugar. 

I pound of pears, Use ^ pound of white sugar. 

1 pound of plums, Use i pound of brown sugar. 

I pound of quinces, Use i pound ot white sugar. 

I pound of blackberries, Use ^4 pounu of brown sugar 

I pound of peaches, Use ^ pound of white sugar. 

I pound of crab-apples, Use i pound of white sugar. 

I pound of apples, Use ^ pound of white sugar. 

1 pound of gooseberries, Use i pound of white sugar. 

I pound of raspberries, Use ^. pound of white sugar. 

Hints. 

If you want your preserves to be clear and bright, use only 
the best sugar ; and never allow a small proportion, as pre- 
serves will not keep well if the sugar is scant. In making jellies 
the sugar should be weighed very carefully, or they will not 
congeal. Jelly bags should be made of strong cotton or flannel, 
and dipped in hot water before the jelly is poured through them. 
Skim carefully both preserves and jellies while boiling, or they 
will not be clear. Use a wooden spoon to stir and skim them 
with, as tin is apt to discolor and impart an unpleasant flavor. 

General Directions. 

Wash and drain the fruit well, putting in the kettle a layer 
of fruit and one of susfar, unless otherwise directed. Slovvlv 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 49 

simmer on the back of the stove until all the sugar has dissolved, 
then pull to the fire where it can cook briskly, and stew until 
the fruit can be pierced with a straw. Strain from the juice 
and put in the jars while hot; boil the juice until it is a thick 
syrup, and pour over the fruit and seal. 

Strawberries Preserved Whole. 

Use 3/^ pound of white sugar to every pound of berries. Put 
the sugar on to boil with enough water to prevent burning, 
and boil to a thick syrup. Skim well and drop in enough berries 
to cover the top of the kettle without crowding them. Boil 
for 20 minutes. Take them out carefully with a skimmer and 
put more in the syrup, until all have been cooked in the same 
way. Boil the syrup down to a rich, thick consistency, and 
strain through a sieve over the berries. This should keep for 
years. 

To Preserve Strawberries in Wine. 

Put 2 quarts of strawberries in a jar, and put between each 
layer one of sugar — Y^ pint of white sugar to this quantity 
of berries, unless they are very sour. Pour over them enough 
Maderia wine to cover well, and seal. The jar should be full 
to ensure their keeping. 

Pears Preserved Whole. 

Take 3 pounds of sugar and i pint of water, and boil to a 
rich syrup. Peel 4 pounds of small pears and stick several 
cloves in each one, and drop them in the boiling syrup. Cook 
until a straw will easily pierce them. Lift out and pack in 
jars, filling with the syrup to the top, and seal. 

Sliced Pear Preserves. 

Peel, quarter and core large firm pears, parboiling them 
before the skins come off. To every pound of pears allow ^ 



50 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

pound of sugar, 3 sliced lemons and a stick of cinnamon, and 
2 roots of green ginger. Boil the ginger until soft, then slice 
it and put it on with the pears and sugar. Boil to a thick syrup 
and throw in the lemon and cinnamon. When clear and thick 
pour into jars and seal while hot. 

Sliced Pippins. 

Take large pippins, pare and slice about J4 of an inch thick ; 
boil 2 or 3 lemons and slice them over the apples. Allow sugar 
pound for pound, and 3^ gill of water. Dissolve the sugar in 
water and bring to a boil. Then add the fruit and boil until 
they are clear. Take out and spread on a flat dish to cool. Boil 
the syrup and pour over the slices when it is thick and clear. 

Apple Mange. 

Stew and mash well 3 pounds of tart apples, then add 3 
pounds of white sugar, and boil until it becomes thick enough 
to drop from the spoon. Add a few drops of lemon and turn 
into a mould. When ready to use, turn out, and slice as you 
would bread. 

Orange Conserves. 

Cut the peel in long, thin strips and stew in water until 
all bitterness has disappeared, changing the water several times. 
Drain and throw in cold water while you prepare a syrup. 
Allow I pound of sugar to every pound of peel before it has 
been cooked. Add i gill of water for each pound, and stew to 
a syrup, then throw in the peel and cook until thick. This 
makes a delicious seasoning for cake and cake sauce. 

Preserved Orange Peel. 

Weigh oranges whole and allow pound for pound, if it is 
a sour orange. Peel them very thin, and stew the rind in water 



PiCKLES AND PRESERVES. 51 

until it is tender. Throw this water away, and squeeze the 
strained juice over the sugar, and let it come to a boil; put in 
the peel and boil 20 minutes. If you don't use the juice, water 
can be substituted, but it does not make it half as good as the 
juice. 

Peach Marmalade. 
Boil 12 pounds of soft peaches, cut from the stone, in their 
own juice until they can be mashed to a pulp. Run through a 
colander and add Yz pound of sugar for every pound of fruit. 
I3oil until thick. When the peaches are first put on the stove, 
put a teacup of water in the kettle to prevent burning. 

Sweetmeats. 

After the rind has been carved, or cut in blocks, cover with 
a strong brine and a layer of grape leaves, and set away for 4 
days. Soak in clear water, changing the water several times, 
until all taste of salt is gone. Take i gallon of water and add 
4 tablespoons of pulverized alum, and cover the rind with it, 
strewing over the top a handful of grape leaves. Simmer until 
they turn a gooa green, then soak out all the alum, changing 
the water several times to make them brittle. Boil the rind 
in a weak ginger tea, and throw in cold water again. Scrape 
and slice ^ pound of white ginger root, and boil in 3 waters 
until tender. Mix with the rind and add 3 sliced lemons. Pre- 
pare a syrup of i pound of sugar to every pound of rind, and 
mix with I pint of water, a stick of cinnamon and a few cloves. 
Cook until the rind is clear and lift out, leaving the juice to 
boil down until thick. 

Pineapple Preserves. 

Peel and core the fruit as for use ; slice, weigh and pack 
down in sugar overnight. Next morning put the kettle on and 
bring to a boil, cooking slowly until the pineapple is soft enough 



52 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

to pierce with a straw. Cook the juice a Httle longer, and then 
seal in air-tight jars. 

Preserved Quinces. 

Take large, ripe quinces ; pare, core and quarter them. Lay 
in scalding water and boil until tender. Put parings, cores and 
seed in a kettle, and cover with the water in which the quinces 
have been boiled ; boil one hour. To every pint of liquor dis- 
solve I pound of white sugar; boil well, and when the scum 
has ceased to rise drop in the fruit and boil until they begin 
to break. Keep the kettle well covered to preserve their color. 
When tender, strain out and put in jars; boil the juice once 
more and pour over the quinces. 

Quince Paste, 

Boil quinces that have been peeled until they are soft; strain 
through a fine strainer, and to i pound of pulp add I pound of 
sugar. Boil until it is so thick it will stand, but be very careful 
to stir continually or it will burn. Pour into moulds wet with 
cold water. When quite cold turn out and wrap in oiled paper, 
and pack away in small tin boxes. It will keep splendidly if 
treated in this way. Cut in strips and serve as a conserve. 

Preserved Grapes. 

Slip the grapes and boil the pulp until soft enough to strain 
through a fine strainer, extracting the seed. Then put the pulp 
and skins together and weigh ; allow 3.^ pound of sugar to i 
pound of grapes. Boil until thick enough to jelly, and seal 
while hot. 

Crab-Apples. 

Wash and Aveigh the apples, allowing pound for pound. 
Prepare a syrup of water and sugar, and while this is cooking 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 53 

steam the fruit until tender. Drop in a few cloves, and cook 
the apples in the syrup until they break. Boil the juice down 
and add to the preserves. 

Blackberry Jam. 

After picking over the berries, put in a kettle for 20 minutes, 
stirring well, or they will burn quickly. Rub through a sieve 
fine enough to extract the seed. Measure, and for every quart 
of the mixture add i^ pints of sugar. Let them simmer 45 
minutes, and seal in small jelly glasses. 

To Jelly Fruit. 

Put the fruit in a stone jar; set this in a kettle of water 
and put on the fire. Let it boil slowly tmtil all the juice has 
been extracted. Strain through a bag and measure the juice. 
Allow I pound of white sugar to every pint of juice. Let the 
juice boil for 20 minutes from the time it begins to bubble, and 
then throw in the sugar that has been heated. Boil up twice, 
and take off the fire at once. Strain through a thin cloth and 
fill the hot jelly glasses. The sugar can be heated by placing a 
flat bread-pan on the inside of the oven, and strewing the sugar 
in, stirring to prevent burning. 

Grape Jelly. 

Cook the grapes as airected above, and at the same time 
prepare some tart apples in the same way. Measure and mix 
equal portions of grape juice and apple juice. Add i pound of 
sugar for every pint of juice, and make as any other jelly. Mix- 
ing the fruits makes a stiff jelly that cannot be obtained in any 
other way. 

Peach Jelly. 

Fill a stone jar with soft peaches that have been peeled and 
stoned ; set in a kettle of water and boil to shreds. Strain and 



54 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

measure the juice, allowing i pint of liquor to ^4 of a pound 
of sugar. Boil as other jelly and seal in small glasses. All other 
fruits are treated in the same way, allowing i pound of sugar to 
every pint of juice. 

Tutti Fruitti. 
To I quart of the very best alcohol put ^ pound of sugar, 
and let it stand for i week before using; stir every day to 
dissolve the sugar. As each fruit comes in season, add them 
to the syrup in the following proportions : Peel and take the 
seed from enough oranges to make a pound ; drop them in the 
jar with ^ pound of sugar. Add pineapple, strawberries, rasp- 
berries, apricots, peaches and pears in the same proportions, 
and seal for winter use. None of the fruits must be cooked, and 
only the largest and best must be used. One quart of spirits 
will make 2 gallons when the last fruit has been added. This 
is a nice dessert when used with custard or frozen cream. 

Brandy Peaches. 

Use White Heath peaches and the best apple brandy when 
making brandy peaches. Put the peaches, a few at a time, into 
boiling soda water, just strong enough to loosen the skins. Let 
them remain a few minutes, and then wipe off the skin with a 
coarse towel, and drop into a bowl of cold water to keep from 
turning dark ; trim off any specks or bruised parts. Weigh 
the peaches and allow ^ pound of white sugar to every pound 
of fruit, and 3^ pint of water to every pound of sugar. Boil the 
syrup until it is clear, and put in the peaches a few at a time, 
and boil until you can run a straw through them ; put on a 
large dish to drain, and boil the syrup until thick. Let it get 
perfectly cold, and add as much brandy as you have syrup. 
Place the peaches in jars and cover with the syrup. After 3 
weeks open them, and take out one-half of the syrup and fill 
un with pure brandy. They won't be ready for use under nine 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 55 

months. The syruo that comes from the peaches can be used 
to season sweet potatoes, mashed and baked, pouring a tea- 
cupful over the dish before sending it to the table. 

Brandy Pears. 

Make the same as you would peaches, using a little more 
brandy when the syrup is measured, and peeling them instead of 
dropping in the soda water. 

Brandy Peaches, 

Use the finest White Heath peaches, skinning them as above 
directed. Cook in a syrup until tender; fill a quart jar with as 
many as you can pack in without bruising, and between each 
layer put a cup of white sugar. After the jar has been filled, 
shake down, and cover with as much sugar as it will hold. Bury 
the peaches under the ground, with a foot of earth above them, 
and allow to stay for a year. The fruit will brandy in that 
time and be almost as good as those put up in the liquor. Be 
careful to seal jars perfectly air-tight. 



VEGETABLES. 



" Good cooking tempts the appetite." 

—Rahbi Ada. 



VEGETABLES. 



All vegetables are best if cooked as soon as they are gath- 
ered. They must be picked and washed and laid in a pan of 
co-Id water previous to cooking. Vegetables should be boiled 
until tender, and well drained before dressing for the table. 
A pinch of salt should be added to the water in which they 
are cooked, and always fill the pot with boiling water as it boils 
away. 

Stuffed Potatoes. 

Bake large, even potatoes as for eating, and when done cut 
off a lengthwise piece and scrape out all of the inside ; be careful 
not to break the skin. Mash the potatoes and work into it 
while hot i teaspoon each of butter, cream and grated cheese 
to every potato, and season with pepper and salt. Work enough 
milk in to cream it soft, and set on the fire to heat, stirring con- 
stantly. When scalding hot, add i egg, well beaten, for each 
potato, and allow it to steam 5 minutes. Fill the skins, heaping 
the mixture in them, and stick in each potato a thin strip of 
friend bacon. Brown the potatoes over the top and serve on 
a flat dish. 

Potato Chips. 

Pare potatoes very thin with a vegetable cutter, and soak 
for y^ an hour in salt water, drain and spread on a dry towel. 
Fry in boiling lard, in a corquette basket, sprinkle with salt, 
and use as a garnish or as a vegetable. If the fat is boiling 
when the slices are dropped in it, they will only take about a 
minute to fry, and will be crisp and delicious. 



6o TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Four large teacups of hot mashed potatoes, 2 tablespoons of 
cream, i tablespoon of salt, i saltspoon of pepper and a dash 
of cayenne. Mix well, and when cold add the beaten yolks of 
2 eggs. Shape and dip in egg and then cracker dust. Fry in 
boiling lard and serve at once. Place the croquettes on ice for 
several hours before frying, and they won't drop to pieces when 
cooked. 

Moulded Potatoes. 

Six large potatoes, boiled and mashed, creamed with i egg, 
I tablespoon of butter and i teacup of milk, salt and pepper. 
Beat until creamy, and then put into small custard cups, brush 
over with the white of an egg and bake. Turn out on a shallow 
dish and dress with parsley. 

Potato Baskets. 

Peel and wash raw potatoes, dry on a clean cloth and slice 
as for chips. Line a frying basket with overlapping slices and 
immerse in boiling lard. Let them cool, and they will lift out 
without breaking. Use them to serve creamed potatoes in, or 
fried potato balls. Surround the basket with crisp lettuce and 
serve. 

Potato Cakes, 

Add I egg to every cup and a half of potatoes, and i table- 
spoon of butter. Beat well and mould in flat cakes. Fry and 
garnish the dish with thin strips of fried bacon. 

Potato Balls. 

Grate 5 large Irish potatoes, raw, and add 2 well-beaten eggs, 
I tablespoon of butter and a scant ^ pint of milk, salt to taste, 
and enough flour to make a stiff batter, with 2 light teaspoons 
of baking powder sifted with it. Roll in balls and fry in boil- 
ing lard. 



VEGETABLES. 6i 

Stuffed Potatoes with Meat. 

Wash and peel large Irish potatoes ; scoop from the centre 
a good dessertspoon, and fill with force meat; dip in melted 
butter. Place in a baking dish and cook in a moderate oven 
for 30 minutes. Serve in the same dish in which they are 
cooked. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Peel and boil enough potatoes to line a baking dish; slice 
them about J^ ^^ ii^ch thick, and fill the dish with them, lapping 
each one. Make a gravy of i cup of milk and i tablespoon of 
butter, salt and pepper, and pour over the potatoes. Bake in a 
slow oven until the top is a rich brown, and then serve. 

Rice Croquettes. 

One cup of rice, soaked overnight, drain and add i^ pints 
of milk; steam until tender and stiff. Add 2 tablespoons of 
sugar, 2 tablespoons of butter, 4 well-beaten eggs, and salt to 
taste. Cook all together until well done, and let it get per- 
fectly cold. Make in long rolls and dip in cracker dust; fry 
a golden brown. Serve with any tart jelly as a sauce. 

Corn Fritters. 

One teacup of milk, 3 eggs, i pint of green corn cut from 
the cob, a pinch of salt, and as much flour as will form a batter. 
Beat the eggs separately, and add to the yolks the corn and 
salt; beat in the milk, and lastly add the flour. Beat well, and 
add the frothed whites. Drop by the spoonful into hot lard and 
fry a light brown. 

Corn Pudding. 

Grate or cut 12 ears of corn from the cob. Make a custard 
with I pint of milk, 2 eggs, i teaspoon of sugar and butter the 
size of an egg. Let this thicken as you would custard, and 
beat into the corn. Bake until the batter has set. 



62 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Ladies' Cabbage. 

Boil a white head of cabbage for 15 minutes, drain and let 
it cool. Chop fine and add 2 well-beaten eggs, i tablespoon of 
butter, 3 tablespoons of cream, pepper and salt. Stir all together 
and bake. 

Stuffed Cabbage. 

Boil a large head of cabbage for i hour. Lift from the 
water and carefully lay back the leaves until you have only 
the hard centre left, about as large as a teacup. Cut this out 
and chop fine. Add to it ^ cup of rice that has been soaked 
over night, 2 cooking spoons of grated ham, not potted ham, 
I egg (beaten), i cup of bread crumbs, and enough milk to 
moisten it. Mix well and put half of it in the centre. Fold 
back the first 4 leaves and sprinkle with the mixture. In be- 
tween each layer of leaves put one of the filling until the last 
leaf has been used. Tie a white cloth around the cabbage and 
boil for another hour. Unvv^rap carefully and put in dish, and 
pour over it a cream gravy made of butter, milk, and flour to 
thicken it. 

Stuffed Peppers. 

Six large bell peppers (green), i tablespoon of melted but- 
ter, ^ pint of chopped chicken or veal, ^ teaspoon of black 
pepper, lA teaspoon of salt, i gill of cracker dust, i egg, 2 tea- 
spoons of celery seed, i small onion (minced). Cut the top 
from the peppers and pull the stem out, drop in cold water 
for 6 hours, and then parboil for 15 minutes. Mix all ingre- 
dients and stufif the hulls ; sprinkle cracker dust over the top 
and dot each one with a piece of butter. Stand up in a pan 
and bake until the tops turn brown. Serve with the following 
gravy: i^ cups of stock, 1}^ cups of stewed tomatoes, ^ tea- 
spoon of sugar, pepper and salt to taste. Boil until it becomes 
thick enough not to run. 



VEGETABLES. 63 

Browned Sweet Potatoes. 

Boil sweet potatoes and slice them while hot; lay in a 
shallow pan and pour over them a gravy made of i cup of 
brown sugar, i tablespoon of melted butter and ^ cup water. 
Stew the syrup for a few minutes and then pour on potatoes ; 
slip the pan in the oven and allow the potatoes to candy over 
the top. After they have been put in the dish for serving, pour 
the rest of the gravy on them. 

Stuffed Onions. 

Get large Bermuda onions and peel them. Parboil through 
2 waters and drain. Take out the inside and chop with it a 
sprig of parsley and a teaspoon of salt ; add i teaspoon ofj 
grated ham, i egg and ^ teacup of crumbs. Mix into a paste 
and stuff the onion. Slip in the oven and brown over the top. 
This quantity will only fill i large onion. The parboiling makes 
them so delicate that the flavor is delicious. 

Macaroni and Oysters. 

Boil the macaroni until tender; then put in a baking dish 
a layer of oysters and one of macaroni, and strew the top with 
grated cheese. Continue to fill the dish in the same way, leav- 
ing a layer of cheese on top. Bake a light brown. 

Spinach and Eggs. 

Spinach should be steamed and not boiled, as so many think. 
Wash and pick the spinach over and place in a colander over 
a pot of boiling water ; let it steam until tender. Poach 6 eggs 
until they set, but are not hard. When the spinach is ready 
for the table, put the eggs on top, and pour 2 tablespoons of 
drawn butter on them. 



64 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Creamed Beans. 

Soak I pint of navy beans overnight. In the morning put 
them in salt water and boil until the beans drop to pieces. Run 
through a colander. An hour before dinner take a tablespoon 
of melted butter and i tablespoon of flour, add Yz pint of milk, 
and cook until thick. Stir into the beans, and add 2 well-beaten 
eggs. Pour the mixture in a greased baking dish, cover with 
bread crumbs, and bake a nice rich brown. Season with salt 
and pepper before baking. 



PIES. 

"No soil upon earth is so dear to our eyes 
As the soil we first stirred in terrestrial pies." 

— Holmes. 



PIES. 

Pastry. 

One quart of flour, % pound of butter and lard mixed, i 
teaspoon of salt, and enough ice water to make the dough hold 
together. Chop the shortening into the flour, using a knife 
instead of your hands. Mix lightly with the water and roll 
out in small pieces, keeping the rest as cold as possible. The 
best pastry is that which is worked as little in the making as 
will make it hold together, and cut off just enough to fill one 
pan, rolling each piece separately. It will then be light and 
flaky. 

Chess Cake Pie. 

Beat I pound of white sugar into the yelks of 2 eggs, cream 
Yi pound of white sugar into >2 pound of butter. Add to the 
two, after they have been well mixed, Y^ pound of chopped 
citron and the juice of 2 lemons, or more if necessary. Bake 
in one pie crust and put a meringue over the top. 

Love Puffs. 

Make a rich pufif paste and roll very thin ; cut the size of 
a saucer, sprinkle with pulverized sugar and cinnamon, fold 
over and bake. Sift sugar over them when they come from 
the oven. 

Cocoanut Cream Pie. 

One quart of milk, 4 eggs (yelks), 4 tablespoons of sugar, 
I tablespoon of corn starch, i tablespoon of Sauer's extract of 
vanilla, I/2 of a grated cocoanut. Boil the milk and make a rich 



68 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

custard. Beat in the cocoanut when the custard is half cold 
and bake in one crust. Make a meringue of the whites and 
spread over the top. 

Cocoanut Pie. 

Rub to a cream Yj pound of sugar and Yx pound of butter ; 
add the whites of 7 eggs (well beaten) and i grated cocoanut. 
Season with wine, Sauer's lemon or vanilla extract. Bake in 
one crust. 

Cocoanut Pie Baked in a Double Crust. 

One grated cocoanut, whites of 5 eggs (well beaten), ^ 
pound of sugar, i cup of milk, i tablespoon of butter, i table- 
spoon of Sauer's vanilla. Mix well and bake in a double crust. 
Let the top crust be formed of crossed strips, showing the 
filling in between. 

Cocoanut Gems. 

Six eggs (whites and yelks beaten separately), i grated 
cocoanut, i pound of sugar, Sauer's vanilla extract to taste. 
Beat the yelks and add the sugar, beat the whites and add the 
cocoanut, and mix together. Line patty pans with pastry and 
fill with the cocoanut. Drop a spoon of meringue in each one 
and brown. 

Lemon Pie. 

Six eggs, 2 cups of sugar, i cup of milk, 2 tablespoons of 
corn starch, 3 lemons, rind and juice. Beat the yelks and add 
the sugar, milk, corn starch and lemon. Set in a pan of boiling 
water and let it thicken over the fire ; fill pie pans and bake 
brown. Make a meringue of 6 whites beaten to a froth and 6 
tablespoons of sugar added one at a time ; season with Sauer's 
vanilla and spread over the pies. Let them dry out in a slow 
oven for 20 minutes, with the door open. The meringue will 
not fall if cooked in this way. 



PIES. 69 

Lemon Pie. 

Five eggs (beaten separately), ^ pound of butter, 4 tea- 
cups sugar, 6 lemons, i teacup of milk. Boil until thick ; fill 
plates and bake. This is a very sour filling, but a good one, 
and well worth trying. 

White Lemon Pie. 

One teacup of XXX sugar, i tablespoon of butter, 2 ,eggs, 
2 lemons (juice and rind), i cup of boiling milk, i tablespoon 
of corn starch dissolved in 2 tablespoons of cold water. Cream 
butter and sugar and pour the boiling milk over the eggs, and 
then over the creamed mixture. When cold add the lemon and 
bake in a crust or small gem pan. 

Sweet Potato Pie. 

One pound of potatoes, boiled and mashed, which equals 
2 pounds before cooking; ^ pound of sugar, 6 eggs and 2 
lemons. Beat well and bake in one crust. 

Rich Sweet Potato Pie. 

Two pounds of potatoes before cooking; boil and mash free 
from lumps ; ^ pound of butter, 3 eggs, i pound of sugar, i 
wineglass of wine and i lemon. Bake until brown. 

Raisin Pie. 

Three pounds of seeded raisins, i^ pounds of brown sugar, 
Yz pint of water. Cook all together until the raisins are soft ; 
let cool, and then add i teaspoon of cinnamon, i teaspoon of 
allspice, ^2 teaspoon of cloves, i nutmeg and i pint of sherry 
wine. Bake in a double crust and serve hot. Slice the raisins 
before cooking them. 



yo TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Caramel Pie, 

One cup of preserved damsons pressed through a colander, 
1 cup of sugar, ^.^ cup of butter, i cup of milk and i tablespoon 
of Sauer's vanilla extract. Cream butter and sugar and stir in 
the beaten yelks ; mix milk and damsons and add to the other 
mixture ; beat the whites and vanilla, and mix all together, 
iiake at once in one crust. 

Fritters. 

One pint of sweet milk, i pint of flour, 2 eggs and a pinch 
of salt. Boil the milk and beat it into the flour. After this 
cools add the eggs, well beaten, and stir the batter hard for a 
moment. Fry in boiling lard and serve with boiled molasses. 

Pancakes. 

One pint of flour, i teaspoon of baking powder, 3 eggs and 
enough milk to make a thin batter. Beat the eggs separately, 
and mix all ingredients together. Fry as you would cakes, and 
roll up when they are done. Sprinkle pulverized sugar over 
them and eat with maple syrup. 

Cream Puffs. 

Put one-half pint of hot water and two-thirds of a cup of but- 
ter over the fire. When it boils stir in i>4 cups of flour and beat 
until smooth. Remove from the fire, and when it is cool beat 
into it 5 eggs that have been whipped to a froth. Drop in hot 
greased tins, a tablespoonful at a time ; brush over the top 
with the white of an egg, and bake in a very quick oven. When 
done, cut off the top and fill with the following filling: i pint 
of milk, I cup of flour, 2 eggs, i cup of sugar, i tablespoon of 
butter and 2 tablespoons of Sauer's vanilla extract. Put half 
of the milk on to boil. Reserve from the other half 2 table- 
spoons to mix with the eggs, and into the rest, while cold, mix 



PIES. 71 

the flour until smooth. When the other milk is hot, pour on 
the flour and cook until thicker than boiled custard. Beat well 
the eggs and sugar, butter, milk and seasoning, and add to the 
other milk ; stir briskly until so thick it will not run from the 
puffs, and when cold fill the centres. Replace the tops,' sprinkle 
with sugar, and serve. 

Apple Dumplings. 

Make a rich puff paste and roll out in pieces 5 inches square. 
Put a large tablespoonful of stewed apples on each one, and 
pinch up the 4 corners, giving them a twist to make them stick. 
Bake a light brown and serve with hard sauce. 

Sauce. — Cream i pound of pulverized sugar and Y\ pound 
of butter to a stiff paste, adding, as you work it down, i teacup 
of sherry. Beat for a few minutes and set aside to harden. 

Drop Cakes. 

One quart of flour, i quart of boiling water, 2 tablespoons 
of butter, 6 eggs, i tablespoon of sugar, i teaspoon of salt. 
Melt butter in the water, and when it has come to a boil, sift 
the flour in and stir briskly until it is smooth ; cool and turn 
into a bowl; beat in i q.%% at a time until all have been used. 
Drop in boiling lard and fry a golden brown. 

Sauce. — 2 cups of light molasses, i cup brown sugar, i table- 
spoon of butter, 4 sticks of preserved ginger (cut in small 
pieces), and 3 strips of preserved orange peel. Cook until 
thick and rich, and serve hot with the cakes. 

Raisin Puffs. 

One-fourth cup of butter, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 cups of 
flour, I cup of milk, ^ cup chopped raisins, 3 heaping teaspoons 
baking powder. Steam in cups for Vo an hour. Eat with cream 
or sauce. This makes 6 puffs. 



^2 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Mince-Meat. 

One-half pound tender beef, boiled until rare done. Chop 
fine and add ^ pound the best kidney suet. To this add i 
pound currants, i pound raisins, 2 pounds Albemarle pippins (or 
any other good apple, chopped), ^ pound citron (cut fine), 3 
pounds white sugar. When this has been well mixed, pour 
over it i^ pints of brandy, ^ pint sherry and a teacup of good 
cider, i teaspoon salt. Cinnamon, cloves and allspice (ground) 
about I teaspoon of each, or add what your taste requires. Mix 
thoroughly and put up in air-tight jars. Use between crusts 
and bake a good rich brown. Serve hot. 



PUDDINGS. 

"First be sure you are right, then go ahead." 
— David Crockett. 



PUDDINGS. 

Poor Man's Pudding. 

One and one-half cups of chopped suet, ij^ cups chopped 
raisins, ^ cup molasses, i cup of milk (sour is best), 3 cups 
of fine bread crumbs, i teaspoon each of cloves and cinnamon, 
Yz nutmeg, i teaspoon of salt and i teaspoon of soda. Place the 
dry ingredients together, and put the molasses on to heat. Pour 
over the dry mixture first the molasses, in which the soda has 
been dissolved, and then the milk. Beat the whole well to- 
gether, turn in a well-buttered tin, and put in a steamer over 
a kettle of boiling water ; cover tightly and steam for 3 hours. 
Serve with a lemon or wine sauce. Flour the fruit before 
using it. 

Lemon Sauce. — i^ tablespoons of butter, 15^ cups of white 
sugar, I even tablespoon of flour, rind and juice of 2 lemons. 
Cream butter, sugar and flour well together ; add i cup of 
sweet milk. Have i^ cups of boiling water in the sauce-pan 
with the grated rind. Pour in the flour, butter and sugar, and 
boil until thick. Add lemon juice just before serving. 

Huckleberry Pudding. 

One pound and 3 ounces of sugar, i pound and 2 ounces of 
flour, 6 ounces of butter, 6 eggs, 2 teaspoons of baking powder, 
I cup of milk. Cream just as for cake, and add i^ quarts of 
berries that have been dredged well with flour. Season with 

Sauer's vanilla, and bake in patty pans. Use either a rich wine 

or lemon sauce. 



yt TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Blackberry Pudding. 

One pound of butter, ^ pound of sugar, 6 eggs, i quart of 
blackberries, y^ pound of flour, i teaspoon of powder, and 
Sauer's lemon extract to flavor. Cream as for cake ; flour the 
fruit well with extra flour, and bake in small moulds. Serve 
with lemon sauce, either hot or cold. 

Soda Pudding. 

Four eggs, 4 cups of flour, 2 cups of sugar, i cup of butter, 
I cup of milk, 2 teaspoons of baking powder, Sauer's lemon 
extract to flavor. Make a cake batter and bake in large mould. 
Serve with tne following sauce : 

Sauce. — I pound of white sugar, ^4 pint of wine, 34 pound 
of butter, and 2 tablespoons of whole cloves. Boil until thick 
and serve with the hot cake. 

Country Pudding. 

One cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, 3 eggs, 3 cups of flour, 
I /'I teaspoons of baking powder, i cup of milk, i teaspoon of 
Sauer's vanilla. Cream butter and sugar, add eggs well beaten, 
then milk and flour with the powder sifted in it. Season ana 
bake in 3 layers. Make 2 days before using, and when ready 
to serve pour over each layer a cup of sherry to moisten it. 
Strew over the top the following, that has been mixed : ^ 
pound of blanched almonds (cut in half), ^4 pound of citron 
(sliced), I pouiia of raisins, and a little candied, orange peel. 
Just before serving pour over the whole a thick custard sea- 
soned with vanilla. Dot a tablespoon of whipped cream over 
the top and serve. 

Apple Pudding. 

Slice enough apples to fill a large mould one-third full. 
Make a batter of i cup of sugar, 3 eggs, i cup of milk, 2^ 



PUDDINGS. 77 

cups of flour and enough fresh lemon to season well. Pour 
the batter over fruit and bake. Turn on a round dish and eat 
with a liquid or hard sauce. 

Sponge Pudding to Eat with Wine Sauce. 
Beat the yelks of 4 eggs with 2 cups of sugar ; stir in i cup 
of flour ; add the whites of 4 eggs ; stir in another cup of flour, 
together with 2 teaspoons of powder. When well mixed, add 
^ cup of boiling water, stirring it in slowly, then add the juice 
of I lemon. Bake in shallow pans as you would sponge cakes, 
Sauer's vanilla is a great addition. If the mixing is carefully 
followed this cake is delicious. 

Sponge Pudding. 

One quart of milk, ^ pound of butter, >^ pound of sugar, 
2 teaspoons of Sauer's vanilla, 6 eggs. Boil the milk and rub 
the butter, flour and sugar together; stir in the hot milk until 
it is a smooth batter. When it has gotten cold, add the beaten 
yelks, then the whites and vanilla. Pour in a shallow pudding 
dish and set it in a pan of water. Turn a pie-plate over the 
top and bake i)4 hours. Serve at once with cream sauce. 

Cream Sauce. — Yi cup butter, i cup of pulverized sugar, yi 
cup of cream, i cup of sherry wine and a tablespoon of Sauer's 
vanilla extract. Beat the butter to a cream, and beat in care- 
fully the sugar. When light and frothy add the seasoning. 
Whip until creamy. Place m a pan of hot water and stir until 
thick. Set on ice for 10 hours. 

Plum Pudding. 

One quart of seeded raisins, i quart of currants, i quart 
of bread crumbs, i quart of white sugar, i quart of broken eggs, 

1 quart of citron and almonds mixed, i quart of chopped suet, 

2 gills of French brandy, i nutmeg, i teaspoon of ground cloves, 



78 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

1/2 teaspoon of cinnamon. Boil for 6 hours in a pudding mould 
or bag. 

Sauce. — V4 pound of butter, i pound of white sugar, i pint 
of wine, whole spice to taste. Stew until the consistency of 
thick cream. 

Sweet Potato Pudding. 

One pound of potatoes, boiled and mashed; ^ pound of 
butter. Cream the two together and add the yelks of 10 eggs 
and I pound of sugar. Mix all together and beat the whites 
to a stiff froth, taking out enough to form a meringue. Lastly, 
beat in the whites and the juice of i lemon. Bake in a pudding 
mould. When done, spread over the top ^ glass of currant 
jelly and cover with the meringue; slip in oven and brown. 
A little wine improves the pudding very much. 

Grated Pudding. 

One quart of grated sweet potatoes (raw), i pint of milk, 
Yz pound of butter, ^•^ pound of brown sugar, 4 eggs, i tea- 
spoon of allspice, 2 teaspoons of cinnamon. Mix and bake for 
I hour. Set the pudding on a plate when it is first put in the 
oven, and turn a plate over the top until the centre has baked ; 
then remove the top and allow it to brown. 

Sauce. — I pound of brown sugar, butter size of an ^%%, i 
teacup of water, i cup of wine. Cook butter sugar and water 
until thick, add wine, and serve hot. 

Boiled Custard. 

One quart of fresh milk, 4 eggs, 4 tablespoons of sugar, 
seasoning to taste. Heat the milk to boiling point. Beat the 
eggs separately, and add to the yelks the sugar. When the 
milk is boiling, pour it over the eggs and sugar. Whip the 
whites and add them at once. Return to the fire and stir until 
it has thickened. When cold add the seasoning. 



PUDDINGS. 79 

Baked Custard. 

One quart of new milk, 4 tablespoons of sugar, i tablespoon 
of Sauer's vanilla, 4 eggs. Beat the eggs separately, and then 
mix them ; add sugar a spoonful at a time, and pour over them 
the milk and seasoning. Put in a dish for baking, and set in 
a pan of cold water. Bake in a moderate oven. Grate nutmeg 
over the top, and serve with whipped cream. 

Boiled Cocoanut Custard. 

Heat I pint of milk and stir slowly into it the yelks of 6 
eggs and i pound of grated cocoanut, alternating them, with 
5 ounces of sugar. Put in a vessel of boiling water and slowly 
simmer, stirring all the time until it is smooth and thick. Take 
off and pour into jelly glasses ; set on ice until cold. Pile 
whipped cream that has been seasoned and sweetened, or use 
the whites instead of the cream. 

Custard Maccaroons. 

Make a custard of i^ quarts of milk, 9 eggs and 8 table- 
spoons of sugar, Sauer's vanilla extract to taste. The custard 
must be very thick. Place in a dish 8 dozen maccaroons, and 
pour over them i cup of sherry. When the cakes have taken 
up the wine, pour the custard over them and set on ice. Serve 
with whipped cream, dotted over with conserve cherries. 

Spanish Cream. 

One quart of milk, 5 eggs, ^ of a box of gelatine, 12 table- 
spoons of sugar, 2 tablespoons of Sauer's vanilla, i gill of cold 
wine, I gill of warm wine. Put gelatine to soak in the cold wine, 
and just before using it pour over the warm wine and strain 
it into the milk. Beat the yelks light, and pour over them the 
cold milk; strain in the gelatine, and set on the fire to boil. 



8o TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Beat whites, add sugar and vanilla, and when the milk boils, 
beat them in. Keep on the fire just long enough to heat 
through, stirring all the time. Fill a melon mould and set on 
ice to harden. Turn out next day and surround the dish with 
whipped cream. 

Meringues. 

Whites of 8 eggs, i pound of sugar. Beat to a stifif froth and 
season with Sauer's vanilla. Drop on buttered paper or in a 
buttered dripping-pan, and bake in a slow oven. They will 
pufif and bake a light brown. Lift from the pan and mash in 
the bottom with a spoon ; fill the centre with ice-cream, place 
2 together and tie with a ribbon. 

Snow Pudding. 

Cover Yz box of gelatine with i teacup of cold water, and 
when softened, pour over it 3 gills of boiling water. Add i 
cup of sugar, the juice of i lemon, Y^ teacup of wine. Wher 
cold add the well-beaten whites of 3 eggs. Beat until it begins 
to thicken, then pour in a mould to harden. Turn on a flat dish, 
and pour around it boiled custard made with the yelks of 3 eggs, 
Yz pint of milk and Y^ teacup of sugar. 

Rice Caramel Pudding. 

One cup of rice, i quart and 2 gills of milk, i teaspoon of 
salt, 2 eggs, I stick of cinnamon, ^ cup of sugar. Wash rice 
and soak in water for 2 hours; drain and put in a boiler with 
milk and cinnamon. Cook for i hour, or until rice is thoroughly 
done. Put the sugar in the frying-pan and stir until it browns 
and has become a liquid. Pour quickly into a 3-pint mould 
that has been warmed, and turn the mould around until the 
sides are coated with the caramel. Beat the eggs well, and 
add them to the rice ; pack the pudding in the mould, cover 



PUDDINGS. Si 

with a pan, place in a pan of water, and slip in the oven to 
bake. Bake for ^ hour, and stand aside to cool. Turn on a 
flat dish and serve with custard seasoned with Sauer's vanilla. 

Cream Pudding. 

Make a cake batter of i cup of butter, i cup of milk, 4 eggs, 
2 cups of sugar, 3 cups of flour, i teaspoon of powder, i table- 
spoon of Sauer's lemon extract. Bake in shallow pans and cover 
with the following when the cake is cold : Put i quart of milk 
on to boil ; beat the yelks of 5 eggs, with 4 tablespoons of sugar, 
dissolve 2 tablespoons of granulated gelatine in i tablespoon of 
milk, and add it to the hot milk; put i teacup of flour and i 
teaspoon of butter together, and pour a little of the hot milk on 
it to cream well; add this to the eggs, and pour the boiling 
milk over them. Cook until thick enough not to run from the 
spoon, and when it begins to congeal, spread over the cakes. 
Ice with 3 tablespoons of chocolate, 6 tablespoons of cream, 
Yi ounce of butter and i teaspoon of vanilla. Simmer a few 
minutes and cover the cream filling. 

Corn Starch Pudding. 

One pint of milk, 2 light tablespoons of corn starch, i scant 
Yz cup of sugar, whites of 3 eggs, i teaspoon of Sauer's vanilla 
extract. Beat the eggs to a stiff froth, dissolve corn starch in 
a little of the milk, and stir the sugar in the rest. When the 
milk begins to boil, add the corn starch and sugar, and beat in 
rapidly the frothed whites. Let it stay on the fire long enough 
to cook the eggs a little. Take off and divide in half. Melt 
2 ounces of chocolate and beat it in one-half. To the other add 
2 tablespoons of fresh cocoanut, and put first the white part 
into a dish and then the dark. Set away to harden and serve 
with cream. 



82 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Strawberry Short Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, ^ cup of butter, i cup of milk, 3 cups 
of flour, I teaspoon of powder, 5 eggs (leaving out 2 whites for 
the icing), i teaspoon of Sauer's vanilla. Make a batter and 
bake in square, flat tins. When cold, slice enough strawberries 
to cover the top of each layer, and pour over them a thin icing 
and a good dusting of powdered sugar. Put the cakes together 
as any other cake, and cover the top with whipped cream. Place 
whole berries all over it, and set in a cool place until ready for 
use. Use the cake as soon after making as possible, for the 
berries make it too wet if they stand long. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

One small cup of butter, i large cup of powdered sugar, 4 
eggs (beaten separately), i large cup of grated chocolate, ^/^ 
cup of milk, 1 1/2 cups of flour, 34 teaspoon of soda in the milk. 
Bake in ring-shaped pan. 

Sauce. — Four sticks Maillard's triple vanilla chocolate, 
broken in pieces ; add i cup water and i cup of milk, i teaspoon 
butter, I cup sugar. Cook for 5 minutes and pour over pudding. 
This pudding is also good later with whipped cream. 



CAKES. 



' Wouldst thou both eat thy cake and have it ?" 

— Herbert. 



CAKES. 

General Rules for Mixing. 

It is well in cake-making to beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream; then beat the eggs separately and mix them together, 
adding them to the butter and sugar; after this has been well 
mixed, add the milk and seasoning, and, lastly, sift in the flour 
and powders. A wooden cake tray or eathenware vessel is best 
for mixing cake and beating eggs. All fruits should be thor- 
oughly cleansed and dried before flouring. Cut raisins in half, 
shred cocoanuts, slice almonds and citron, and then they are 
ready for use. A very good way to tell when cake has baked 
enough is to run a small broom splint through it. If the dough 
does not stick to it the cake has finished baking and can come 
out of the oven, unless it is a large cake, when it should stay in 
awhile longer to thoroughly soak. Always set the pans on 
small pie-pans to prevent burning, and place a bread-pan filled 
with water over them to keep from baking on top before they 
rise. In baking layer cakes you can tell when to take them 
out of the stove by placing the pan close to your ear. If they 
sing they are not done, and must be baked until they stop. 

SMALL CAKES. 

Old-Fashioned Jumbles. 

One and one-half pounds of sugar, ^ pound of butter, 2 
eggs, I lemon, juice and rind, and enough flour to roll a thin 
dough. Break off pieces the size of an egg, and roll with your 
hands in long strips. Tie in knots or wind in a circle and 
bake. 



86 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

German Pretzels, or Ringlets. 

Three-fourths of a pound of flour, 3^ pound of butter, J4 
pound of sugar, i egg. Cream butter, sugar and egg; season 
with Sauer's vanilla or lemon extract; add the flour and set 
the dough in a cool place to harden. Cut with a knife into 
small pieces, and roll as you would jumbles, forming little rings, 
and bake in a moderate oven. 

Tea Cakes. 

Two quarts of flour, i pound of sugar, ^ pound of butter 
and lard mixed, 4 eggs, 2 teaspoons of baking powder, ^2 teacup 
of milk, I nutmeg or cinnamon. Mix and roll about % of an 
inch thick ; cut in shapes and bake. 

Queen Cake. 

Two and one-half pounds of flour, i pound of butter, i pound 
of sugar, 5 eggs, i teaspoon of seasoning, i wineglass of brandy, 
I teaspoon of cinnamon. Mix as for tea cakes, and cut with a 
round cutter. While the cakes are hot, stick on each one a 
blanched almond. 

Cinnamon Cake. 

Two pounds of flour, ^ pound of butter, 5 eggs, i pound 
of sugar, 2 tablespoons of cinnamon. Use the yelks of 3 eggs 
and 2 whole ones. Roll and cut round. Beat the 3 whites and 
add pulverized sugar until it is thick ; season with cinnamon, 
and while the cakes are hot spread on with a feather. 

Sauer's Vanilla Drop Cakes. 

Beat ^ cup of butter, 13/2 cups of powdered sugar and the 
yelks of 4 eggs together; then add i cup of milk, i^^ cups of 
sifted flour, and i teaspoon of baking powder ; mix and season 
with Sauer's vanilla extract. Drop by teaspoons into well- 



CAKES. 87 

greased pans, and when done, ice with white icing. Batter 
must not be thin enough to run. 

Cocoanut Cakes. 

Two cups of sugar, i cup of butter, 2 eggs, >4 grated cocoa- 
nut, and flour enough to roll a thin batter. Cut out and bake. 
The dough should have as little flour in it as possible to enable 
you to roll them thin. 

Marguerites. 

Whip to a stiff froth the whites of 3 eggs; add slowly ij4 
cups of pulverized sugar and i teaspoon of Sauer's vanilla. Add 
I cup chopped English walnuts or pecans, and beat well. Drop 
a large spoonful on the top of saltines, or any crisp unsweetened 
cracker, and slip them in the stove to brown. Serve hot or 
cold with salad, or as a dessert. 

Marguerites. 

One pound of sugar, i pound of butter. Cream. Beat 6 
eggs and sift i^ pounds of flour in them; add the butter and 
sugar and i teaspoon of mixed spices. Season with Sauer's 
rose extract. Roll ^ inch thick, cut and bake at once. When 
cold, spread the tops with jelly or marmalade, and cover with 
a meringue. Slip in the oven to brown. 

•Ginger Snaps. 

One cup of butter, i cup of molasses, i cup of brown sugar, 
3 heaping tablespoons of ground ginger, flour to make a thin 
dough. Roll as thin as possible, cut and bake in a quick oven. 

Molasses Cookies. 

One cup of butter, 2 cups of molasses, i teaspoon of cloves, 
I tablespoon of ginger, flour to make a stiff dough. Mould in 
your hands in small cakes and bake in a steady oven. 



88 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Old-Fashion Ginger Cakes. 
Three pounds of flour, i pound of brown sugar, ^ pound of 
butter or lard, i quart of dark molasses, i^ tablespoons ground 
cloves, 2,y2 tablespoons of allspice, 3^/2 ounces of cinnamon, 3 
ounces ginger, a pinch of salt. Mix well together, roll thin and 
cut in shapes. Bake in a quick oven. 

Rich Drop Cakes. 

One pound of flour, i pound of powdered sugar, ^ pound 
of butter, ^ pound of currants, 4 eggs, juice of i lemon and 
grated peel of ^ lemon, ^ teaspoon of soda wet with hot 
water. Dridge currants and put them in last of all. Drop the 
mixture by spoonfuls on buttered paper, taking care they are 
not close enough to touch in baking. 

Peanut Cookies. 
Put I pound of sugar and 2 pounds of flour together, and 
add a little cinnamon; sift well. Beat 4 eggs and pour on them 
^ of a pound of melted butter. Knead the whole together, 
and roll as thin as possible. Turn a flat bread-pan buttom up 
and spread the batter on it. Check it off in squares and press 
chopped peanuts over it. Slip in the stove and brown. The 
secret of this cake is to have it rolled as thin as a wafer. 

Cookies. 

Quarter pound of butter, ^ pound of sugar, y^ pound of 
flour, 2 eggs, I teaspoon of Sauer's vanilla, ^4 pound of almonds 
and raisins mixed. Make in balls the size of a walnut, scratch 
the top until it is rough, and bake in a quick oven. 

Currant Cookies. 

Half pound of sugar,, 4 eggs, 4 ounces of currants (well 
washed and dried), 2 ounces of citron ( cut in strips), 2 lemons 



CAKES. 89 

(juice and rind), ^ pound of flour, ^ teaspoon of powder. 
Beat sugar and eggs for 20 minutes, and add the other ingre- 
dients. Drop from the spoon in small cones and bake brown. 

Sauer's Vanilla Cookies. 

Half pound of flour that has been sifted 2 or 3 times; y^ 
pound of sugar, 3 eggs, 3^ teaspoon of Sauer's vanilla. Sugar 
and eggs must be beaten hard for 20 minutes, always in the 
same direction; then add the flour and vanilla, and stir for 
another 20 minutes. Drop in small cakes and bake. The longer 
they are beaten the better they are. 

Ring Timbles. 

One pound of flour, 10 ounces of sugar, 10 ounces of butter, 
2 eggs, I lemon, juice and rind. Cream the eggs and sugar; 
add butter and flour, and set to harden in a cool place. Form 
in little rings and bake. 

Christmas Cookies. 

Three-fourths of a pound of flour, 3 eggs, Yz pound of butter, 
^ pound of sugar, Y^ pound of almonds. Reserve about one- 
third of the almonds for icing. Chop the butter up in the 
flour, add eggs and sugar, and the chopped almonds; work 
all into a smooth dough, and cut in squares with a jagging 
iron. Mix the rest of the almonds with some cinnamon and 
sugar, and sift over each cake. Bake to a very light brown. 

Dough-Nuts. 

One cup of sugar, i cup of milk, >4 cup of butter, 2 eggs, 
2 teaspoons of baking powder, 5 cups of flour, cinnamon or 
nutmeg to taste. Mix as you do cup cake, roll and cut with 
a dough-nut cutter. Fry in boiling lard, and while hot sprinkle 
with powdered sugar and cinnamon. 



90 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Crullers. 

Two cups of cugar, 2 tablespoons of butter, 2 cups of cream 
or milk, 4 eggs, 6 cups of flour (sifted), with 4 teaspoons of 
powders, 2 teaspoons of salt. Drop from the spoon into the 
boiling lard, and lift out when they are a golden brown. Dust 
with sugar while hot. This makes a very light cake, and is im- 
proved by adding a little cinnamon to the batter. 

Crullers. 

Four eggs, 3 cups rf sugar, butter the size of an egg, i tea- 
spoon of soda, I tablespoon of vinegar, i cup of milk, i teaspoon 
of salt, grated rind of i orange, 2 teaspoons of Sauer's vanilla, 
I teaspoon of cinnamon. Dissolve soda in the vinegar, and mix 
other ingredients with enough flour to form a soft dough. 
Divide in three parts and roll one part at a time. Cut in cakes 
and fry in boiling lard. Sift powdered sugar over them while 
hot. 

Vanilla Snaps. 

One cup of butter, J^ cup of sugar, 2 eggs, 3 teaspoons of 
baking powder, 2 large teaspoons of milk and 3 teaspoons of 
Sauer's vanilla. Flour to make a stiff dough. Mix as for tea 
cakes, roll thin, and sprinkle with sugar, and bake. 

Christmas Stars. 

One pound of powdered sugar, i pound of almonds, whites 
of 6 eggs, I teaspoon of cinnamon, the grated rind of i lemon. 
Wash the almonds and wi e them dry. Grind in an almond 
mill (do not pound, as it makes them too much of a paste). 
Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add sugar, lemon rind and 
cinnamon; stir for 15 minutes. Take out i cupful, and into 
the rest stir the almonds. Flour the board well and turn the 



CAKES. 91 

mixture on it, roll out lightly and cut in stars. Put a small 
quantity of the plain mixture on each one, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. 

Kisses. 

One pound of pulverized sugar, whites of 6 eggs, i teaspoon 
of cream tartar, i teaspoon Sauer's vanilla, >^ pound nuts. Beat 
y2 an hour. Break the eggs and beat the sugar in, without 
frothing the eggs first. When the eggs and sugar have been 
beaten for 15 minutes, add the cream of tartar and beat for 
another 15 minutes. Add nuts — pecans are best — and drop 
a tablespoqnful on greased tins, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Creole Kissss. 

To the white of every ^%% add 2 tablespoons of pulverized 
sugar, and to every 5 whites allow i pint of chopped nuts. 
Vanilla to taste. Don't beat the eggs, but drop the whites in 
a bowl and add the sugar. Beat until thick, add the nuts and 
seasoning, and bake on greased tins. 



LARGE CAKES. 

Cup Cake. 

Four cups of sugar, 6 cups of flour, 2 cups of butter, 2 cups 
of milk, 6 eggs, 3 teaspoons of powder, 2 teaspoons of Sauer's 
vanilla or lemon extract. Bake in 2 large moulds, cups or layers. 

Marble Cake. 

Make above batter and divide in half. To one half add i 
tablespoon each of cloves, cinnamon, allspice and nutmeg. Put 
first a layer of dark and then one of light, until all the batter 
has been used. Bake in a large mould. 



92 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Rich Marble Cake. 

Part First. — Yelks of 7 eggs, i cup of butter, i cup of mo- 
lasses, 2 cups of brown sugar, 4 cups of flour, i cup of milk, 
I teaspoon of soda, 2 teaspoons of cream of tartar, 2 tablespoons 
of cinnamon, i tablespoon of cloves, i teaspoon of allspice, i 
nutmeg. 

Part Second. — Whites of 7 eggs, i cup of butter, 2 cups of 
sugar, 3 cups of flour, I/2 cup of milk, 3^ teaspoon of soda, i 
teaspoon of cream of tartar, i teaspoon Sauer's lemon extract. 
Put in a layer of dark and one of light until all has been used. 
Bake in a slow oven to prevent burning. 

White Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, 2 cups of flour, i cup of butter, whites 
of 6 eggs, I teaspoon of baking powder, i lemon or i teaspoon 
of Sauer's extract. Cream butter and flour. Beat eggs until 
stiff and add sugar. Then mix all together and bake in a sheet. 
Ice with the following: i cup of sugar, i teaspoon of vinegar 
and ^ cup of water; boil until it ropes. Beat spoon by spoon 
into the beaten white of i egg. Flavor with vanilla and ice 
the cake. 

Dover Cake. 

Three-fourths of a pound of butter, 2 pounds of sugar, 2 
pounds of flour, 6 eggs, i pint of milk, i nutmeg, i wineglass 
of brandy, i teaspoon of soda dissolved in 2 teaspoons of vine- 
gar, I pound of currants, i pound of raisins. Mix and bake in 
a large mould. 

Cocoanut Cake. 

One and ne-half cups of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of butter, 
2}i cups of flour, one-third of a cup of milk, whites of 4 eggs, 



CAKES. 93 

I teaspoon of baking powder, i teaspoon of Sauer's vanilla. 
Bake in layers and ice with cocoanut icing. 

Cocoanut Icing. — Boil i cup of white sugar and ^ of a cup 
of water, with ^ teaspoon of vinegar in it, until it ropes. Beat 
it in the well-beaten white of i egg. Season with Sauer's 
vanilla and add % pound of grated cocoanut. 

Coccanut-Chocolate Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, i cups of butter, i cup of milk, 5 eggs, 
3 cups of flour, I teaspoon of powder, i teaspoon of Sauer's 
vanilla. Bake in 4 layers and spread the following between 
them: 

Icing. — Beat whites of 3 eggs until light, add i pound of 
pulverized sugar and i grated cocoanut. Melt ^ of a pound 
of Baker's chocolate, and beat rapidly in the icing. Spread at 
once between the cakes, as it hardens very quickly. 

Chocolate Cake. 

One egg, beaten together; add ^ cup of milk, i cup of 
sugar, ^ cake of grated chocolate. Cook until it becomes hot 
through, and set aside to cool. Make a batter of 3 eggs ; beat 
yelks light, and add i cup of sugar, ^2 cup of milk, ^ cup of 
butter; to the beaten whites add 2 cups of flour, 2 teaspoons 
of powder, and when well mixed pour in the chocolate mixture. 
Bake in layers and ice with a white icing. 

Caramel Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, i cup of butter, 5 eggs, i cup of milk, 
3 cups of flour, I teaspoon of powder, 2 teaspoons of Sauer's 
vanilla. Bake in layers and use the following as a filling: 

Icing. — Two pounds of brown sugar, 2 ounces of butter, 2 
teacups of milk. Boil until thick and add 3 teaspoons of Sauer's 



94 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

vanilla extract. Beat until it begins to harden. Then pour in 
I cup ci chopped black walnuts and spread on the layers. 

Lemon Cake. 

Make the usual batter for layer cake and put it together with 
3 eggs (beaten light), 2 cupfe of sugar, butter size of an egg, 
juice of 3 lemons. Set the stew-pan in water, and cook until 
thick enough not to run from the cake. Cool and ice. 

Walnut Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, i cup of butter, 5 eggs, i cup of milk, 
3 cups of flour, I teaspoon of powder, 1^/2 teaspoons of Sauer's 
lemon extract. Divide the batter in three parts, flavor two of 
them with lemon, and to the third add i teaspoon of cinnamon, 
1^4 teaspoons each of cloves and allspice, ^ nutmeg. Bake in 
3 layers and put between them the following : 

Icing. — Five lemons, i^ pounds of pulverized sugar, 2 
pounds English walnuts. Squeeze lemons and mix the sugar 
in them ; chop the nuts, taking out enough to cover the top, 
and beat the whole quickly together. If the icing is too thin 
to stay on the cake, add a little more sugar. When the icing 
begins to set, place the whole nuts over the top and set away 
to harden. 

Date Cake. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, ^ cup of butter, 2 large cups 
of flour, I cup of milk, 5 eggs (leaving out 2 whites), 2 teaspoons 
of powder, i teaspoon of Sauer's almond extract, and ^ pound 
of dates, chopped. Bake in sheets and ice. 

Date Icing. — White of 2 eggs, 2 cups of sugar, y^ cup of 
water, i teaspoon of vinegar, y^ pound of dates, i teaspoon each 
of Sauer's lemon and vanilla extract. Make a boiled icing, and 
add the dates that have been sliced. Beat until the icing begins 
to harden. 



CAKES. 95 



Silver and Gold Cake. 



White JLayers. — Whites of 6 eggs, i>4 cups of sugar, y^ cup 
of butter, ^ cup oi milk, 2>^ cups of flour, i teaspoon of powder, 
I teaspoon of Sauer's almond extract. 

Gold Layers. — Yelks of 6 eggs, >4 cup of butter, i cup of 
milk, i^ cups of sugar, 2>4 cups tiour, i teaspoon of powder, 
I teaspoon of Sauer's orange extract. 

Put together with a layer of white and one of yellow. 

Icing. — Yelks of 4 eggs, beaten light, with >4 pound of white 
sugar and J4 pound of butter; cream well and cook on a slow 
fire until thick. Then add the whites of 4 eggs (well beaten) 
and I teaspoon of Sauer's orange extract. Cook long enough 
to thicken, and when done, beat into it 2 tablespoons each of 
chopped almonds and walnuts. 

Fig Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, y^ cup of butter, ^ cup of milk, 2^ 
cups of flour, whites of 6 eggs, i teaspoon of powder, i teaspoon 
of vanilla (Sauer's). 

Filling.— 94 of a pound of chopped figs, ^ pound of seeded 
raisins, ^ pound of chopped almonds, >4 cup of icing. Mix- 
well and put the layers together with it. 

Sponge Cake. 

Twelve ^gzs>, their weight in sugar and half their weight 
in flour, Sauer's lemon extract to season. Mix as directed above, 
and bake in a large mould. 

Sponge Cake. 

Fifteen eggs, i>^ pounds of sugar, i pound of flour, juice and 
rind of i large lemon, 2 tablespoons of vinegar. Beat the yelks 



96 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

and whites separately; beat the yelks and sugar, then add the 
whites, and lastly stir in the flour that has been sifted 3 times. 
Mix well and add the lemon and vinegar. Bake in shallow pans. 

Almond Cake. 
Twelve eggs, i pound of flour, i pound of sugar, i pound 
of butter, i pound of almonds (blanched), ^ pound of citron 
(sliced), I wineglass of brandy. Mix and bake as pound cake. 

White Fruit Cake. 

One pound of white sugar, i pound of flour, Yz pound of 
butter, whites of 12 eggs, 2 pounds of citron (cut thin), i large 
cocoanut (grated), i oound of blanched almonds, 3 teaspoons 
of baking powder. Cream butter and sugar, add eggs and flour, 
and then mix in one-third of the fruit. Mix in the rest as you 
put the batter in the mould, making a layer of batter and one 
of fruit. Bake in a slow oven. This will keep one month. 

Black Fruit Cake. 

One pound of flour, i pound of sugar, lYz pounds of butter, 
13 eggs, 4 pounds of raisms, i^ pounds of currants, i pound 
of blanched almonds, ^ pound of citron, i tumbler of brandy, 
^2 tumbler of wine, rind of i orange, i teacup of Porto Rico 
molasses, i teaspoon each of cloves, mace and allspice (all 
ground). Mix the batter as for any other cake, flour the fruit 
and add to the dough, and beat in the seasoning. Bake 4 hours. 

Light Fruit Cake. 
Twelve eggs, i pound of flour, i pound of sugar, i pound 
of butter, i pound of currants, i^ pounds raisins, Yz pound of 
shelled almonds, 5 slices of preserved pineapple, ^ tumbler of 
brandy, and spice to taste. Mix and bake as other fruit cake. 
Sink the pan in wood ashes when it goes into the stove, and 
it will prevent burning. 



CAKES. 97 

Large Fig Cake. 

'i wo cups of sugar, i small cup of butter, i cup of milk, 3^ 
cups of flour, whites of 8 eggs, 2 teaspoons of powder, i pound 
of figs (cJioppeaj, 2 teaspoons of Sauer's lemon extract. Mix 
the batter and put a layer of it in a large mould, and then a layer 
of figs ; continue to use in this way until all the batter is used. 
Bake in a slow oven. Dredge the top with powdered sugar. 

Lemon Citron Cake. 

One pounds of flour, i pound of sugar, ^ pound of butter, 
7 eggs, juice and rind of 2 lemons, 2 cups of sliced citron, i tea- 
spoon of powder. Beat the eggs separately, adding the whites 
after the batter has been mixed. Bake in a large mould. 

Rolled Jelly Cake. 

One cup of sugar, 2 eggs, i tablespoon of butter, 13^ cups 
of flour, two-thirds of a cup of milk, 2 teaspoons of powder, 

1 teaspoon of Sauer's vanilla. Bake in a very shallow pan, and 
while hot spread over the top a coating of tart jelly; roll up 
quickly and tie a cloth around it. When the cake has gotten 
cold, slice about 3^ an inch thick, and cover each slice with a 
water icing. 

Anoth r nice filling that will take the place of the jelly is to 
beat I egg with i teaspoon of corn starch, i tablespoon of flour, 

2 tablespoons of sugar, and i teaspoon of Sauer's vanilla. Stir 
into it y2 pint of milk, and boil until it is stiff. Spread as you 
would the jelly, and roll the cake. 

Water Icing. — Pour enough boiling water over i pound of 
pulverized sugar to make a thick icing, and any flavoring de- 
sired, and spread over the cake. This icing is quickly made, 
and hardens at oace. 



98 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Raisin Cake. 

One cup of butter, 2 cups of brown sugar, 3 cups of flour, 
I cup of milk, 5 eggs, i teaspoon of powder, ^ of a cup of wine, 
I pound of raisins, i teaspoon each of cloves, mace, allspice 
and cinnamon. Flour the raisins well and bake in a large pan. 

Raisin and Citron Cake. 

Half pound of butter, ^ pound of sugar, i pound of flour, 
5 eggs, Yz pound of raisins, 5^ pound of citron, i teaspoon of 
powder, Sauer's lemon extract to taste. Bake in a large square 
mould. 

German Wine Cake. 

Half pound of butter, ^ pound of sugar, 4 eggs (beaten 
separately), rind of 1I/2 lemons, y% pound of currants, ^ pound 
of raisins, i scant pound of flour, i teaspoon of powder. Cream 
the butter and beat it well with the sugar and eggs, add the 
flour and powders, and lastly the beaten whites. Flour the 
fruit from the pound of flour, and add it after the batter has 
been mixed. Bake in a mould. 

German Bread Cake. 

Twelve eggs, ^ pound of sugar, ^ pound of buckwheat, 
Yi teaspoon of cloves, 3^ teaspoon of cinnamon, i teacup of 
citron and almonds mixed, i teaspoon of Sauer's lemon extract. 
Beat yelks with sugar and spice for 15 minutes; add buck- 
wheat, lemon and fruit, and then the whites. Bake as a sponge 
cake. 

Risen Ginger Bread. 

Six cups of flour, 4 cups of molasses, 2 cups of brown sugar, 
i^ cups of butter, 6 eggs, 2 teaspoons of powder, ginger to 
taste, I cup of milk. Mix and bake in a large mould, or better, 
in 2 small moulds. 



CAKES. 99 

Ginger Bread. 

One cup of butter, i cup of molasses, i cup of brown sugar, 
I cup of sour milk (or buttermilk), 3 eggs, 3^^ cups of flour, 
iVi tablespoons of ginger, 2 teaspoons of cinnamon, i teaspoon 
of soda dissolved in i tablespoon of hot milk. Beat the butter 
and sugar, and add the eggs ; beat the dissolved soda into the 
molasses, and add to the other ingredients ; mix next the milk, 
flour and spices. Bake in a large mould, cups or shallow pans, 
and serve with sauce. 

Ginger Cup Cake. 

Five eggs, 1V2 cups of molasses, i^ cups of brown sugar, 
i^ cups of milk, i^ cups of butter, 4 cups of flour, 3 teaspoons 
of powder, 2 tablespoons of ginger, 2 teaspoons of cinnamon. 
Bake in small cups or pans, and serve while hot with a rich 
wine sauce. 

Cherry Cake. 

Four eggs, ^ pound of sugar, ]/[ pound of butter, 6 ounces 
of flour, ^ pound of preserved cherries after they have been 
well drained, i teaspoon of powder. Bake in shallow tins in a 
quick oven. Ice with any icing preferred, and cut in squares. 

Almond Cake. 

Five eggs, ^ pound of sugar, scant ^ pound of flour, 54 
pound of butter, 3^ pound of almonds, i orange. Cream flour 
and butter; beat yelks and sugar; beat whites to a froth, and 
mix with the almonds that have been shaved ; mix all well 
together. Bake m layers and frost with a boiled icing. Cut 
in squares 2 inches across, and make a daisy on the top of each 
one, with almonds for the petals, and some of the icing colored 
yellow for the centre, and a citron stem. 



LofC. 



loo TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

A Quick Cake, 

Whites of 4 eggs, i cup of sugar, ^ cup of milk, ^ cup of 
butter, ^ cup of corn starch, i^/^ cups of flour, 2 teaspoons of 
powder, i teaspoons of Sauer's ahnond extract. This cake must 
be baked in a very quick oven, or it will be a failure. Put in 
an earthenware bowl the whites of the eggs, without beating 
them ; add the sugar, the butter that has been softened, the 
sifted flour, corn starch and powders, milk and flavoring. After 
all ingredients are in, begin beating, and continue until the bat- 
ter is smooth and creamy. Bake in a shallow pan and ice with 
anything you like. This cake is one of the best made, and one 
of the easiest if the directions are followed. 

Good Cake to Eat with Sauce. 

Two eggs, 2 large tablespoons of butter, 2 cups of sugar. 
Cream this together, and add 2 small cups of milk, 3 teaspoons 
of powder and 4 cups of flour. Flavor with Sauer's lemon ex- 
tract. Bake in a large mould, and eat while hot with a sauce. 
This cake is not good after it gets cold. 

Orange Icing. 

Two cups of sugar, 13^ cups of water. Cook until it strings, 
and pour on the white of i egg that has been well beaten. Beat 
until it begins to harden, and flavor with Sauer's orange, lemon 
or vanilla extract. This icing takes a long time to cook, and 
has to be beaten as mu^h as an hour before it hardens. 

Cooked Orange Filling. 

One pound of sugar, % pound of butter, 4 oranges, 2 lemons, 
6 eggs. Beat the butter and sugar, add the juice and rind of 
fruit, and when it comes to a boil pour over the well-beaten 
eggs. Cook until thick and set away to cool. Put between 
layers and ice the top with white icing. 



CAKES. loi 

Orange Icing. 

Squeeze an orange, and add as much pulverized sugar as 
the juice will take up. Spread on the layers. 

Chocolate Icing. 

Two ounces of chocolate, i cup of sugar, i egg, i cup of 
milk. Cream egg and sugar, pour the milk and chocolate with 
it, and set on fire to thicken. Beat until it hardens, and flavor 
with Sauer's vaniaa extract. 

Chocolate Cream Icing. 

One pint of milk, 4 ounces of chocolate, 4 ounces of sugar, 
4 ounces of almonds, which have been blanched and pounded. 
Boil until thick and cool before using. Season with Sauer's 
vanilla, and don't add almonds until the icing comes off the fire. 

Cinnamon Icing. 

Whites of 2 eggs (stiffly beaten), 24 teaspoons of pulverized 
sugar, I teaspoon ot vanilla. Mix and pour in it 2 ounces of 
melted chocolate. Beat hard and ice the cake. 

Caramel Icing. 

One cup of milk, i ounce of butter, i pound of brown sugar, 
I teaspoon of Sauer's vanilla. Boil until it ropes, and beat until 
thick. You can use this icing plain, or add cocoanut, which 
must be dessicated. Nuts make a nice change. 



CREAM, JELLIES, Etc. 



" Enough is as good as a feast." 

— Heyixiood. 



CREAM, JELLIES, Etc. 

Freezing. 

Use ice that has been pounded fine, filling every crevice as 
you pack the freezer. If possible, use the best rock salt, that 
has been crushed to a powder, and pack with a layer of ice 3 
inches deep and a layer of salt i inch thick. Fill the freezer to 
the top in this way, and turn the crank rapidly until it refuses 
to move. Lift out the dasher and scrape all cream from the 
sides ; work the cream well into the can with a large spoon, and 
cover again. Pour off all the water and add more salt and ice, 
packing well until the ice has been heaped over the cream. 
Throw a blanket over the freezer and set in a cool place to ripen 
for 4 hours. 

Pure Vanilla Cream. 

Two and one-half quarts of pure cream, i^ tablespoons of 
Sauer's vanilla, ^ pound of sugar. Mix and freeze, allowing 
it to harden before using. 

Strawberry Cream. 

Two quarts of berries (mashed with a spoon until every 
berry has been broken), i quart of cream, 3 cups of sugar (more 
if the berries are very sour), i pint of milk, and the juice of 
J/2 a lemon. Mix and freeze. 

Raspberry Cream. 

Make the same as strawberry cream, straining the berries 
after they have been mashed to extract the seed. 



io6 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Peach Cream. 

Four quarts of soft peaches (peeled and mashed), i^ quarts 
of cream, 33^ cups of sugar, i pint of milk. Freeze and pack 
away to ripen. 

Peach Cream. 

Two quarts of peaches, i quart of milk, i quart of cream, i 
pound of sugar, 2 eggs. Make a custard of the milk, eggs and 
sugar. When it is cold, add the cream and the peaches that 
have been put through a presser. Freeze and let ripen for 3 
hours. 

Apple Cream. 

Take 4 quarts of stewed apples, i pint of milk, i quart of 
cream, 4 lemons, 2 tablespoons of vanilla, 4 good cups of sugar, 
and mix them all together. Freeze 4 hours before using. The 
sugar varies according to the apple used, and it may need more. 

Banana Cream. 

One quart of cream, ^ pint of milk, 3 large cups of sugar, 
2 lemons, 15 bananas. Mash the fruit and add the sugar and 
lemon juice. Stand for 15 minutes, and then add the milk and 
cream. Freeze as other creams. 

Pineapple Cream. 

One can grated pineapple (or i quart of the ripe fruit), i 
quart of milk, i pint of cream, 2 cups of sugar (unless you use 
the fresh fruit, and then it requires more), i lemon, ^ box of 
gelatine soaked in ^ pint of milk. Beat the cream and fruit 
together and add the lemon. Heat the milk and dissolve the 
y2 pint of milk and gelatine in it; add the sugar and bring to 
a boiling point. Cool and pour over the fruit and cream. Freeze. 



CREAM, JELLIES, ETC. 107 

Bisque. 

Make >4 gallon of rich boiled custard, allowing 6 eggs to 
each quart of milk, and 4 tablespoons of sugar. Add, before 
taking from the fire, 2 pounds of pounded almond macaroons 
and y2 pound of sliced almonds. When cold, freeze. 

Caramel Cream. 

Make a custard of 2 quarts of milk and 8 eggs. While this 
is boiling, put in a flat frying-pan i pound of brown sugar and 
Yz teacup of water; let it smoke until it begins to burn, and 
add it to the custard. The custard and sugar should both be 
boiling hot when put together, or the sugar will form into a 
hard lump and will be difficult to melt. When cold, add i table- 
spoon of Sauer's vanilla and i quart of cream. Freeze, and 
when the dasher comes out, fill the hollow it leaves with 
whipped cream that has been sweetened and seasoned with 
vanilla. Put the caramel over the top and pack away to harden. 

Chocolate Ice-Cream. 

Half gallon of milk, 8 eggs (whites and yelks), i>4 pounds 
of sugar, 4 ounces of chocolats, Sauer's vanilla to taste. Put 
the milk and chocolate on to boil ; beat the eggs and sugar, and 
pour the boiling milk over them. Thicken as for custard, and 
when cold, add the vanilla. Fill the centre with whipped cream 
and pack away. 

Lemon Ice-Cream. 

Dissolve 2 pounds of sugar in 2 quarts of milk ; add 2 table- 
spoons of Sauer's vanilla extract and partially freeze. When 
the cream begins to get hard, open the freezer and beat in it the 
juice of 12 lemons; finish freezing and allow it to harden. 



io8 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Sultana Roll. 

One quart of milk, i egg, i quart of cream, i tablespoon 
flour, I cup of sugar, i^ cup raisins, soaked over night in enough 
brandy to cover them, i teaspoon of Sauer's vanilla, i teaspoon 
of Sauer's almond extract. Put the milk on to boil in a farina 
boiler with the flour, beaten egg and the sugar. Cook for 20 
minutes. Cool and add the cream, keeping out half to whip. 
Flavor and color with vegetable green. Freeze. When nearly 
frozen pack down in small cans, mixing in the raisins as you 
pack it, and fill the centres with whipped cream. Pack in ice 
to harden. Make a sauce of i cup of sugar, ^/^ cup of water, 
and boil until :t is a thick syrup. Add 6 tablespoons of claret, 
and pour over the cream when served. Use i pound Royal 
baking powder cans to pack the frozen cream in. 

Chestnut Cream. 

Two quarts of cream, i^ cups of sugar, i cup of water, 
2 oranges, yi pint of best wine, 3 dozen French chestnuts. Shell 
and blanch chestnuts, cover with boiling water and cook until 
you can marh them. Drain and pound in a mortar, and run 
through a potato presser. Boil the sugar, grated orange rind 
and water for 15 mmutes, then add the chestnuts. Cook for 
5 minutes. Cool and add orange, v/ine and cream. Freeze. 

Frozen Pudding. 

Two cups of s'^gar, i pint of milk, i quart of cream, 2 table- 
spoons of gelatine, 2 eggs, ^ pound of conserved cherries, 
y2 cup of flour, ^ pint of wine, 4 tablespoons of rum. Put 
the milk on to boil, and pour it over the eggs, sugar, flour and 
gelatine that has been dissolved in i cup of cream. Thicken 
and let cool. Add the cream and liquor in which the cherries 



CREAM, JELLIES, ETC. 109 

have been soaked overnight, and sliced. Freeze and serve with 
a rich boiled custard filled with cherries. 

Maple Cream. 

Make a rich custard and freeze. When served, pour over 
each plate i tablespoon of thick hot syrup, filled with chopped 
English walnuts. Heat maple syrup and stew until it is thick 
and ropes from the spoon. Add Sauer's vanilla and nuts before 
using. 

Chocolate Sauce for Cream. 

Six ounces of chocolate (grated), ij^ cups of brown sugar, 
I cup of milk, I teaspoon of Sauer's vanilla extract. Cook until 
thick and serve hot with vanilla cream. 

Mint Sauce for Vanilla Cream. 

This sauce is one found in a stray paper, but try it and see 
if you don't want to use it again many times. Leave ^ cup 
of mint leaves in i cup of cold water for an hour ; then heat 
and strain. Dissolve in it i cup of sugar and let it come to a 
boil. Color a faint green, and cook until it forms a soft ball 
when dropped in cold water. Pour hot over each saucer of 
cream, and it will candy on the cold mixture. 

Lemon Ice. 

One tablespoon of pulverized gelatine, 6 lemons, i pint of 
sugar, 'Yo cups of water, 2 dozen raisms. Shave the lemons, 
and put the peel on to bcil in the 35^ cups of water. Drop the 
raisins in with it. AVhen it has gotten hot through, add the 
sugar and boil until thick. Strain. When it is cold, add the 
lemons and the gelatine, whic.i has been dissolved in ^ cup 
of hot water. When the ice has half Trozen, open the can and 
add I quart of cream. Freeze and set away to ripen. 



no TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Orange Ice, 

Two tablespoons of gelatine, i quart of cold water, 12 
oranges, 2 cups of sugar, i cup of boiling water. Dissolve gela- 
tine in hot water. Boil sugar and water to a syrup and add 
the gelatine. When cold add the orange juice. Freeze and fill 
the centre with whipped cream, seasoned and flavored with 
Sauer's vanilla extract. 

Gelatine Ice. 

Let I ounce of gelatine stand i hovir in i pint of cold water. 
Add 3 pints of boiling water, i^ pounds of sugar, i^ pints of 
wine, juice of 3 lemons and rind of i. Mix well and freeze 
before it begins to congeal. 

Ambrosia. 
Peel and take the seed from 12 oranges ; cut them in dice 
and sprinkle with sugar. Slice 6 bananas and fill a bowl with 
layers of orange, bananas and cocoanut, sprinkling each layer 
with sugar. Serve cold. 

Blanc-Mange. 

One ounce of gelatine and 3 pints of milk. Soak the gela- 
tine in half of the milk, and put the rest on to boil ; add ^ cup 
of sugar and pour over the gelatine. Return to the fire and 
let heat through ; strain and pour in moulds, wet with water. 
Season with Sauer's vanilla or bitter almond extract. 

Custard Blanc-Mange. 

Make a custard of i quart of milk, i teacup of sugar and 
4 eggs. Stir in while boiling 5^ box of gelatine that has been 
soaked in i teacup of milk. Season with Sauer's vanilla, and 
add ^ pound of shredded almonds. Pour in moulds and serve 
with whipped cream. 



CREAM, JELLIES, ETC. in 

German Blanc-Mange. 

Five eggs, ^ pound of sugar, juice of i^ lemons and rind 
of one, Yz ounce of gelatine soaked in i cup of water. Stir the 
yelks in the sugar for ^ an hour, add the lemon juice and the 
well-dissolved gelatine, lastly the beaten whites, and pour at 
once into a pudding mould that has been wet. The mould must 
first be oiled with a little almond oil, and turned over to allow 
all the oil to run out, then wet and fill with the pudding. When 
stiff turn out and use with v^hipped cream or custard. 

Snow Flake. 

One cocoanut, grated and soaked in just enough cream to 
cover it ; soak for an hour. Sweeten and flavor i pint of cream 
and whip to a stiff froth. Beat the whites of 3 eggs and mix 
with the cocoanut and cream. It must be used at once, as it 
falls from standing. 

Apple Snow. 

Pare and core 12 large apples, put them in cold water and 
stew until soft enough to mash through a sieve, sweeten to taste, 
and flavor with Sauer's vanilla. Beat the whites of 6 eggs to 
a heavy froth, and add >^ pound of powdered sugar. Beat the 
two together until light, and cover the top with whipped cream. 

Jelly. 

One box of Chalmer's gelatine, i pint of cold water. Put 
together and let soak for an hour. Pour on this 3 pints of boil- 
ing water, and stir until all has dissolved. Add i>^ pints of 
cooking wine and i^i pounds of sugar. Squeeze into it the 
juice of 2 lemons and >4 an orange. Strain and set away to 
harden. 



112 ■ TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Tutti Frutti Jelly. 

Add to the above, before it congeals, Yi pound of red con- 
served cherries, i pound of broken English walnuts, 3/2 pound 
of blanched almonds, 3 or 4 pieces of candied orange peel. 
When this hardens, and you are ready to serve, put in the dish 
with a layer of split white grapei: (seeded) and sliced bananas. 
Surround with whipped cream and serve very cold. Use 4 
bananas and 3 dozen grapes to this amount of jelly. 

Charlotte Russe. 

One quart of cream, i tablespoon of Sauer's vanilla, whites of 
4 eggs, I cup of pulverized sugar, 3^ box of pulverized gelatine, 
I gill of cold milk, i gill of hot milk. Whip cream until it is 
stifif, and add the seasoning; beat the eggs and add the sugar; 
soak the gelatine in the cold milk and dissolve with hot milk. 
Beat all together, and fill a dish that has been lined with sponge 
cake or macaroons. 

Custard Charlotte Russe. 

Put I pint of milk on to boil with Yz box of gelatine. Beat 
the yelks of 2 eggs and Yi cup of pulverized sugar, and then 
beat in the whites; pour the hot milk over them. Beat i quart 
of cream and season with Sauer's vanilla or wine. Divide in 
half, and beat half in with eggs. Fill a glass dish with this 
mixture, and pile the rest of the cream on top. Place cake in 
the bottom of the dish before filling with the charlotte. 

Marshmallow SoufBe. 

Whites of 6 eggs, 3 tablespoons of powdered sugar, i table- 
spoon of gelatine, i teacup of water, 18 marshmallows, 2 table- 
spoons of Sauer's vanilla extract. Dissolve the gelatine in the 
water and melt Yz of the marshmallows in it. Whip the eggs 



CREAM, JELLIES, ETC. 113 

and sugar, and pour the warm mixture over them, and add the 
seasoning-. Beat until it begins to congeal, pour in a round 
dish, and cover the top with miarshmallows. Use only the best 
marshmallows. 

Apple and Cocoanut. 
Core 12 Winesap apples and place in a dish ; strew thickly 
with brown sugar, filling in all the holes between the apples 
with it. Stuff the centres of the apples with freshly-grated 
cocoanut, and cover them with water. Bake in a slow oven, 
and when nearly done cover the top with cocoanut, and let it 
brown slightly. Serve with custard. 



SALADS. 

"To make a perfect salad, there should be a 
miser for oil, a spendthrift for vinegar, 
a wise man for salt, and a madcap to stir 
the ingredients up and mix them well 
together."— Spanish Proverb. 



SALADS. 

Potato Salad. 

Six large Irish potatoes, boiled and cut in dice; 6 eggs, 
boiled hard and cut in small pieces; 3 tablespoons of celery 
seed, I onion chopped fine, 4 large, firm tomatoes, salt and 
pepper to taste. Cut the tomatoes in pieces, using only the firm 
part and discarding the seed. Mix all ingredients together, and 
wet thoroughly with the following dressing: 

Mayonnaise Dressing.— 3 raw eggs (yelks only), ^ teacups 
of best olive oil, 3 tablespoons of vinegar, i tablespoon of mus- 
tard, pepper and salt. Mix the mustard and eggs, add oil and 
vinegar, and dress the salad with it. The dressing must be 
thick enough to cut with a knife. 

Turkey Salad. 

One large turkey (boiled and cut in dice), 5 hard-boiled 
eggs (chopped), 4 large pickled cucumbers, J^ can of potted 
ham, and as much celery as turkey. Mix well and add ]/\ cup 
of celery seed. Dress with the yelks of 10 eggs, 2 teacups of 
oil, 9 tablespoons of vinegar, >4 teacup of mustard, a dash of 
cayenne, and salt to taste. Mix a mayonnaise and pour over 
the salad. 

Celery Salad. 

Four eggs (whites and yelks), i teaspoon of salt, Yz tea- 
spoon of mustard, >4 teaspoon of black pepper, dash of cayenne, 
I tablespoon of butter, i teacup of vmegar, 2 teacups of cream. 
Boil the vinegar and butter together ; beat the eggs, salt, pepper 
and mustard well together, and pour over them the boiling 



ii8 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

vinegar; mix well and return to the fire, stirring constantly 
until It thickens. Beat until cool and add the cream. Cut the 
ceiery in small pieces and pour the dressing over it. Serve 
in a nest of leccuce leaves, garnished with whole English 
walnuts. 

Sweetbread Salad. 
Clean and boil large firm sweetbreads for ;^ an hour. Then 
remove the skin and fibres and cool thoroughly; cut in dice. 
Aiake a rich mayonnaise and mix it with the sweetbreads. Ar- 
range each plate with lettuce leaves, and put a large tablespoon 
of salad in them. Drop a spoonful of the dressing on the top 
of each and serve very cold. 

Shad Roe Salad. 

One pair of shad roes, 2 gills of mayonnaise, i teaspoon of 
salt, I small onion, 2 heads of lettuce. Wash the roes and put 
them in a sauce-pan with the salt and enough water to cover 
them. Boil for 20 minutes ; remove from the fire, drain and 
set away to cool. When cold cut in dice, mix with the dressing, 
and serve in lettuce. 

Tomato Salad. 

Use enough tomatoes to make i quart after they are peeled 
and cut in sections, or use i quart of canned tomatoes. Boil 
until they can be run through a fine strainer, and while boiling 
add 12 cloves, ^ lemon, a bay leaf, 2 stalks of celery, i teaspoon 
of vinegar and a dash of pepper. When it reaches a good boil, 
throw in 4 tablespoons of granulated gelatine and 2 teaspoons 
of sugar. Stir until the gelatine melts, and strain. Place 2 
stuffed olives in the bottom of timbale moulds and pour the 
jelly over them. Set on xe, and when ready to serve, pass a 
hot cloth around them and turn out in a nest of lettuce. Serve 
with any rich dressing. 



SALADS. 119 

Cucumber Salad. 

Use medium-size cucumbers; slice off a lengthwise piece 
from each one and hollow out the inside, taking care not to 
break or bruise the meat. Lay in ice-cold water untd ready 
for use. Cut the cucumber centres in dice and add Y-i a tomato 
for each boat of them, chopping the tomatoes so the seed are 
thrown out. Mix with mayonnaise or cream dressing, and fill 
the boats with the mixture. They must not be filled until just 
before serving, as long standing imparts a bitterness to the 
salad. Serve with cheese wafers. 

Asparagus Salad. 

Turn the contents of i can of asparagus tips on a plate and 
drain the juice from them. Use the small white leaves of let- 
tuce, forming a bed of them in each plate. Fill with the tips, 
and put a tablespoon of mayonnaise on them. Garnish with red 
beets that have been cut in dice and chilled. 

A Dainty Fruit Salad. 

Two oranges, peeled and seeded, removing the thin fibrous 
skin; 2 bananas (sliced), i cup large strawberries, i dozen 
English walnuts. This can be mixed and served with a thick 
sweet syrup in punch glasses, or arranged in lettuce leaves and 
covered with mayonnaise. It must be chilled and the nuts 
sprinkled over the top. 

Cherry Salad. 

Arrange each plate with a triangle of lettuce leaves, filling 
a small head in the centre of each one. Seed and stew some 
red cherries — or the wax variety, if you prefer them — and m 
the centre of each one place i cooked peanut. This keeps the 
shape of the cherry and adds a flavor to the salad. Strew the 
cherries through the leaves and put a tablespoon of mayonnaise 
on each one. Serve very cold. 



]2o TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Apple Salad. 

Two cups of diced apples, 2 cups of chopped English wal- 
nuts. Mix well. Arrange a salad bowl with lettuce leaves and 
fill with the apples and nuts. Cover with mayonnaise and gar- 
nish with olives. 

Walnut Salad. 

Cream to a paste fresh cheese, with enough butter to make 
it soft. Roll in small balls and press on each side the half of 
an English walnut. Fill lettuce leaves with them and cover 
with a thick mayonnaise. Serve with thin bread or salt 
crackers. 

Daisy Salad. 

Fill an oblong shallow dish with crisp white lettuce leaves; 
place a thick mayonnaise over them. Arrange in the centre 
a nest of small leaves, leaving a hole, which must be filled with 
the yelks from 8 hard-boiled eggs, pressed through a potato 
masher. Shred the whites in long thin strips, and strew around 
the yelks to form the petals of the daisy. Serve dressing with 
each plate of salad. 

Fish Salad. 

Boil a large red snapper until tender. Skin while hot and 
place on ice to cool thoroughly. Make a rich mayonnaise dress- 
ing and serve with the fish. Cut the fish in thick slices and 
heap the dressing over it; garnish with points of lemon and 
red beets. The success of this lies in the fish being almost 
frozen and the dressing being thick enough to cut with a knife. 

Salmon Salad. 

Pick a can of red salmon to pieces and take out all bone, fat 
and skin. Chill and add as much celery with it as you have 
meat. Season with salt, pepper and i tablespoon of celery seed. 
Wet thoroughly with a sour mayonnaise and garnish with slices 
of egg. Serve in lettuce hearts. 



SALADS. 121 



SALAD DRESSINGS. 



Cream Salad Dressing. 

Yelks of 2 eggs (beaten), pepper and salt, i tablespoon of 
vinegar, i tablespoon of butter, i teaspoon of mustard, 2 tea- 
spoons of sugar. Mix in a bowl and set it in a pan of boiling 
water; stir until it thickens, and beat well after it comes off 
the fire. Just before using, stir in >4 cup of whipped cream. 

Hot Cream Dressing.' 

This dressing is used for croquettes, oysters, fish, and any 
meat that requires a white sauce. Bring to a boil i pint of 
milk; cream together i tablespoon of butter and 2 tablespoons 
of flour. When the milk is hot, pour it slowly over the butter 
and flour, and beat well. Let it thicken to the consistency de- 
sired, as different dishes require different sauces, and you will 
have to judge how much cooking it requires for each one. 

Salad Dressing. 

Put 7 tablespoons of water and 7 tablespoons of vinegar on 
to boil, and pour it over 2 well-beaten eggs ; add i teaspoon of 
sugar, I tablespoon of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Return 
to the fire and cook until thick. This can be used for lettuce 
or as a dressing for potatoes. 

Slaw Dressing. 

Half pint of milk, >^ pint of vinegar, i tablespoon of sugar, 
3 eggs (beaten), 2 tablespoons of butter, i teaspoon of mustard, 
peppier and salt. Mix all together, and cook until thick as 
custard. 



122 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Slaw Dressing without Milk. 

One cup of vinegar, i cup of sugar, 2 eggs (whites and 
yelks), I tablespoon of mustard. Beat sugar and eggs and boil 
the vinegar, and while hot pour over the egg mixture. Thicken 
and set away to cool. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Work together the yelks of 6 eggs and J^ teacup of mustard ; 
add slowly i^^ teacups of olive oil, mixing well. Stir in enough 
salt to thicken it, and then add 6 tablespoons of vinegar. Just 
before using add 2 tablespoons of cream. 

French Dressing. 

One saltspoon of salt, ^ saltspoon of pepper, 3 to 5 table- 
spoons of olive oil, I tablespoon of vinegar. Put salt, pepper 
and vinegar in a bowl, and mix slowly with it the oil, stirring 
constantly the same way until the dressing has become ropy. 
Add a little onion juice, if that flavor is not objectionable. 

Tartare Sauce. 

Take a rich mayonnaise and add to it chopped olives, gher- 
kins, capers, parsley and onion. Mix and set on ice until ready 
to use. 

Cooked Dressing. 

Three eggs, 2 teaspoons of salt, i teaspoon of paprika or 
j4 saltspoon cayenne, 2 tablespoons of oil or melted butter, i 
cup of milk, y^ cup of vinegar. Beat yelks until light. Add 
seasoning to vinegar and bring to a boil. Scald milk and pour 
over the beaten yelks. Add vinegar and cook all until thick. 
Add oil and whites of eggs, well beaten, and whip the mixture 
until creamy. 



VARIOUS DISHES. 

"A good digestion to you all ; and once more 
I shower a welcome on you : Welcome all." 

— Shakespeare. 



VARIOUS DISHES. 

Deviled Crabs. 

One pint of crab meat, i tablespoon of melted butter, /2 cup 
of oil, dash ot cayenne, i teaspoon of black pepper, i teaspoon 
of salt, I teaspoon of mustard, /a cup of Worcestershire sauce, 
2 tablespoons of celery seed, 2 cups of cracker dust, 2 eggs. 
Make a dressing of the ingredients and add to the crab meat 
Fill shells and dust the top of each one with cracker dust, and 
place a teaspoon of hard butter on them. Bake until brown 

and serve hot. 

Welsh Rarebit. 

One pound of cheece cut in dice, /4 bottle of beer, i even 
tablespoon of mustard, red pepper. Cook until cheese has 
mehed, stirring constantly. When the rarebit is done, add i 
tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce. Place on hot salt crackers 

and serve at once. 

Omelette. 

Beat 6 eggs very light, yelks and whites separately. Add 
Yo pint of milk to the yelks, with a little salt and pepper, and 
a'teaspoon of chopped parsley. Stir in the beaten whites, and 
fry with butter at once. This will make three small omelettes, 
and cook better than if made in a large one. 

Baked Eggs. 

Eight eggs, I cup of milk, i tablespoon of butter, i teaspoon 
of flour, Yi teaspoon of salt and a little pepper. Put the butter 
in a frying-pan, and when melted, put in the flour; stir until 
smooth and frothy, then draw to the back of the stove and 



126 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

slowly add the milk. Pour into a deep pan and break the eggs 
into the sauce. Bake in a moderate oven until the eggs have set. 

Stuffed Eggs. 

Hard boil i dozen eggs and slice them in half. Take out 
the yelks and mash to a powder. Rub into them ^ cup of oil, 
I teaspoon of pepper, 2 teaspoons of salt, i teaspoon of mus- 
tard, y2 cup of pickle vinegar, and ^ can of potted ham. Beat 
the mixture until creamy, and fill the whites. Add 2 tablespoons 
of celery seed to the prepared mixture before using. 

Codfish Balls. 

Boil fish until tender and pick from the bone. Measure and 
add equal parts of Irish potatoes or parsnips ; add butter, salt, 
pepper, onion and wine. Make in balls and fry. 

Jellied Tongue. 

Boil 2 tongues until tender, and pull off the skin. Cut in 
thin slices and arrange in a mould, having thin slices of lemon 
in the bottom. Make a jelly of i box of gelatine dissolved in 

1 cup of cold water. Add i quart of boiling water, less the cup, 
then the juice of 4 lemons, 2 cups of sugar, ana i cup of sherry. 
Put a layer of jelly and allow it to set. Add another of tongue 
and one of jelly. Let each layer of jelly harden before putting 
in the next. Set away for 24 hours. 

Timbale of Cold Meat. 

One pint of cold meat, chicken or beef, freed from all fat 
and grisle. Chop fine and add Yz teaspoon of pepper, i table- 
spoon of salt, I onion, i tablespoon of chopped parsley, i cup 
of milk, 3 eggs, 2 tablespoons of butter, Yi cup of bread crumbs, 

2 tablespoons of celery seed. Mix seasoning and crumbs with 
the meat. Heat milk and melt the butter with it; pour over 



VARIOUS DISHES. 127 

the well-beaten eggs and mix with the meat. Fill buttered cups 
and place them in a pan of water, covering with a piece of 
buttered paper. Bake for i hour in a slow oven and turn on a 
warm dish. Serve with the following sauce : 

Sauce for Timbales. — Heat 3 tablespoons of butter and 
cream in it 3 tablespoons of flour. Draw to the back of the 
stove and add i cup of stock or milk, i cup of tomatoes and 
I teaspoon of sugar. Stir until it thickens and season with 
pepper and salt. 

Moulded Salmon. 

One can of salmon, picked and freed from fat and bones.. 
Cream with it 4 tablespoons of butter and 3 well-beaten eggs. 
Add to it I cup of fine bread crumbs (not dust), the juice of i 
lemon, and V2 cup of milk or cream. Work well together, and 
fill a buttered mould; steam for i hour. Turn out and serve 
with the following sauce : 

Sauce.— One cup of milk, i tablespoon of flour, 2 tablespoons 
of butter, i tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, pinch of mace 
and pepper to taste, i hard-boiled egg. Melt the butter and 
cream with the flour, add milk and other ingredients, and boil 
until thick. Then run the egg through a potato masher and 
stir into the sauce. The Worcestershire sauce can be added 
to the fish instead of the sauce, if preferred. 

Veal Croquettes. 

To every pint of cooked veal allow i teaspoon of thyme, i 
tablespoon of chopped parsley, i small onion, i teaspoon of 
salt, pepper to taste. Put on the fire >^ pint of milk, and when 
it comes to a boil pour it over 2 tablespoons of flour and i table- 
spoon of butter, creamed ; stir until thick and mix with the 
dry ingredients. Roll in pear-shaped cones and fry in boiling 
lard. Stick a whole clove in the top of each one, after they have 
been cooked, for a stem to the pear. 



128 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Salmon Croquettes. 

One can of salmon, picked ; 4 Irish potatoes, boiled and 
mashed; mix with the salmon; 2 eggs (beaten), butter size 
of an egg (melted), i tablespoon of celery seed, red pepper 
and salt. Mix and form in cones, dip in the white of an egg 
and then in cracker dust, and fry in boiling lard. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

One 4-pound chicken, i pair sweetbreads, i small onion, i 
bay leaf, i sprig of parsley. Boil the chicken and sweetbreads 
separately. Put the chicken on to boil with the above season- 
ings ; simmer until well done, and remove all meat from the 
bones, but do not chop it until it has been put on the fire again 
and allowed to simmer with the strained juice for 5 minutes. 
Prepare sweetbread and cook for 15 minutes, drain, cover with 
boiling water, add i teaspoon of salt and place over a moderate 
fire for 20 mmutes. Do not let them boil. When done, throw 
in cold water, remove all skin and chop fine. Chop the chicken 
and mix the two. Make a sauce as for veal croquettes, and roll 
them in the same way for frying. 

Chestnut Croquettes. 

Shell, blanch and boil until tender large French Chestnuts. 
Mash enough to make i pint, and season with i teaspoon of 
salt, dash of red pepper, i teaspoon of onion juice and i ounce 
of butter. Beat i egg and 2 tablespoons of cracker dust and 
cream to the nuts. Mould in balls, dip in egg, then cracker dust, 
and fry in boiling lard. 

Curry. 

One pair of chickens or 2 pounds of veal (the rack is best), 
I sweetbread, 2 onions, 4 Irish potatoes, 2 tablespoons of curry. 
Cut the meat as for stewing, dredge it lightly with flour, and 



VARIOUS DISHES. 129 

brown just a triffle. Slice and brown the onions, pare and 
quarter the potatoes, boil the sweetbread. Place all the ingre- 
dients in a deep sauce-pan, covering well with water. Season 
with salt and pepper to taste. Let it cook slowly until the 
meat is thoroughly done. Remove meat and potatoes and 
thicken the gravy with browned flour. Pour over the meat 
and serve. Arrange a rim of boiled rice around the curry, or 
serve it as a separate dish. 

Scrapie. 

Take 4 pounds of pork and boil it well ; a pig's head is the 
best, and it should not be too fat. Boil in a separate pan i pound 
of calf's liver, and throw away the water in which it has been 
boiled. The water in which the pork has been boiled can be 
used in the scrapie. Remove all bones from the pork and chop 
liver and pork very line. Mix well and put in an iron pot with 
the water in which the pork was boiled. Add 2 quarts of hot 
water. Season well with salt and pepper, sage and sweet mar- 
joram. Thicken as you would mush, using buckwheat and 
cornmeal in equal quantities. Boil for i hour, stirring con- 
stantly to prevent burning. When thoroughly cooked pour into 
tin pans or dishes about 2 or 3 inches deep. Allow it to cool 
and slice in strips. Fry for breakfast or supper. 

. Celery Sandwiches. 

SHce Graham bread as thin as possible, cutting ofif the crusts. 
Spread with a rich mayonnaise, and place on one side a mixture 
of chopped olives and celery, using twice as much celery as 
olives. Cover another slice of bread with dressing, and put 
them together. Serve very cold. White bread can be used in 
place of the Graham bread, and the sandwich cut in any shape 
desired. 



130 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Ham Sandwich. 

Beat 2 eggs well with 5 tablespoons of vinegar, i tablespoon 
01 sugar, j/2 teaspoon of made mustard, i teaspoon of butter, 
i"ut m a bowl and allow it to thicken over hot water. Mash 
I can of potted ham and cream the dressing with it. Spread on 
thin slices of white bread and told together. 

Lettuce Sandwich. 

Cut the bread with a sandwich cutter, and spread each slice 
with Royal cheese that has been creamed to a soft paste with 
melted butter. Put a crisp lettuce leaf between each piece, i 
tablespoon of mayonnaise on it, and fold another slice over it. 

Peanut Sandwich. 

One quart fresh roasted peanuts, chopped fine, not pounded. 
Mix with a thick mayonnaise, and butter thin bread with it. 
Place two slices together, and cut out in round pieces with a 
sharp cake cutter. 

Cheese Straws. 

Grate 3 tablespoons of dairy cheese ; add 3 tablespoons flour, 
a dash of red pepper and a pinch of salt. Add to dry ingre- 
dients I tablespoon of melted butter, i of milk and the yelk of 
I egg. Roll as thin as possible, and cut in strips 4 inches long 
and y2 wide. Bake in a quick oven. 

Kidney Stew. 

Boil 2 kidneys until tender, adding a little salt to the water. 
Change water twice. Chop fine when tender. Make a sauce of' 
I cup of milk, I cup of water kidneys were boiled in. Thicken 
with I tablespoon of butter and i tablespoon of flour, creamed 
to a paste. I*ut all on fire and stir in kidneys. Season with 
red pepper. For 6 people. 



CANDIES. 

The daintiest last, to make the end most sweet." 

— Shakespeare. 



CANDIES. 

Fondant. 

One quart of white sugar, i pint of boiling water. Pour 
the water over the sugar and stir until dissolved. Then place 
the stew-pan over a brisk fire and boil without stirring until it 
forms a soft ball when dropped in cold water. Keep the sides 
free from all granules by wiping them down with a wet cloth. 
Remove from the fire and place the pan in one of cold water 
until you can dip your finger to the bottom without burning. 
Beat hard with a spoon until the sugar is too hard to handle. 
Turn out on a flat tray and work as you would bread. This 
is the basis of all French candies, and can be flavored and shaped 
as you like. 

"Potatoes." 

Use the fondant above, working in as much desiccated cocoa- 
nut, about 2 cups, as it will hold. Season with Sauer's vanilla 
extract, and form into small oblong pieces, moulding them in 
the shape of potatoes with your fingers. Roll in cocoa and stick 
small pieces of nut in them for eyes. Do not melt the cocoa 
before using it. 

A Good Taffy Pull. 
One quart of molasses, J^ pound of butter; boil until thick 
and try in cold water. Just before it comes off the fire pour in 
Yz cup of vinegar and beat for a minute. Pour on buttered tins 
and pull when cool enough to handle. 

Cocoanut Drops. 

One pound of dry cocoanut, i pound of pulverized sugar, 
whites of 2 eggs. Beat the t^Z and work it in the sugar and 



134 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

cocoanut. Season with Sauer's vanilla and form in small balls. 
Bake on buttered tins in a slow oven. 

Brown Cocoanut Candy. 

One pound of dried cocoanut, 2 ounces of butter, 2 cups of 
milk, 2 pound of brown sugar, Sauer's vanilla extract to taste. 
Boil the sugar, milk and butter until it ropes from the spoon ; 
then beat the cocoanut in, and continue beating until hard. 
Pour on buttered dishes and block in squares. 

Maple Creams. 

Take one-half as much water as maple sugar, and boil it 
without stirring. When it is nearly done, drop in a small piece 
of butter. When it will harden in cold water, take off and beat 
rapidly until it becomes waxen. Make in small balls and place 
an English walnut on each side. 

Chocolate Caramels. 

Four pounds of brown sugar, ^ pound of Baker's chocolate, 
Vz pint milk, ^ pound of butter, i small bottle of Sauer's vanilla 
extract. Cook until it hardens when beaten well. Pour out on 
buttered dishes and stir until it sugars. 

Cream Chocolate Caramels. 

One and one-half pounds of brown sugar, ^ pound of choco- 
late, J^ pound of butter, Yz pint milk. Flavor with Sauer's 
vanilla. Cook for 10 minutes from the time it boils hard, and 
beat until it begins to sugar. Pour in buttered dishes and cut 
in blocks. 

Cocoanut Caramels. 

Use the above recipe, beating in ^ pound of dried cocoanut 
when the chocolate begins to sugar. Block in the usual size. 



CANDIES. 135 

Nut Fudge. 

Three cups of white sugar, i}i cups of. cream, i cup of 
chopped nuts, Sauer's vanilla to taste. Boil cream and sugar 
for 10 minutes. Stir in the nuts — the kind you prefer — and 
stir briskly for a few minutes. Pour on greased tins and block 
when cold. 

Cream Candy. 

Three cups white sugar, i cup water, i teaspoon vinegar. 
Cook without stirring until, it strings. Then beat until creamy, 
and add i cup of cocoanut and Sauer's extract of vanilla to 
taste. Cover the bottom of a flat dish (that has been greased) 
with chopped nuts, raisins, citron and cherries. Pour the candy 
over them and cut in squares. 

Peanut Nugat. 

Two cups shelled peanuts, pounded fine; 2 cups of white 
sugar. Put the sugar in a stew-pan and allow it to melt, stir- 
ring all the time. No water is necessary. When it has thor- 
oughly melted, pour in the peanuts and mix quickly together. 
Remove from the fire at once. Wet the biscuit board well with 
cool water, also the rolling-pin, and pour the candy on the board. 
Roll as you would bread dough, keeping the rolling-pin thor- 
oughly wet, until the candy is thin as a wafer. Cut in strips and 
break in small pieces. This candy requires rapid handling, or 
it will harden before it can be rolled thin enough. 

Marroons. 

Cook Italian chestnuts until they are soft. Peel and throw 
in a rich syrup. Stew until they are well coated in the sugar. 
Strain out and roll in pulverized sugar. Dry on buttered papers 
and pack away in sugar. 



136 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Peppermint Drops. 

Three cups white sugar, i cup water, 8 drops oil of pepper- 
mint. Boil for 10 minutes and beat until creamy. Drop on oiled 
paper, or better yet, a marble slab. 

Peppermint Cream Drops. 

Use the recipe for fondant, adding enough peppermint to 
flavor. Shape between your fingers fiat round pieces the size 
of a quarter and allow them to harden. The next day melt 
enough Baker's chocolate to cover them, and drop them in with 
a fork. Place on oiled paper to dry. They are firm and creamy, 
and if shaped well can hardly be told from the confectioner's. 

Stuffed Dates. 

Pit large dates and fill the centres, with pecan nuts. Press 
three together and roll in powdered sugar. You can fill the 
centres with fondant, peanuts or almonds, and a very pleasant 
change fcr a filling is to use cottage cheese, moistened with 
butter, salt, pepper and a little sherry. Fill the openings and 
leave enough through the slit to show the color. Do not put 
them together or roll in sugar, but serve with coffee and salt 
wafers. 

Marshmallow Creams. 

Cut large marshmallows in half. Melt some fondant and 
dip the halves in it, coating them well. Let it dry a very little 
and dip in fresh cocoanut. Some can be dipped in melted 
chocolate after they have thoroughly hardened. 

Stuffed Figs. 
Take large dried figs and pull them apart, leaving the centre 
for a filling. Stuff with chopped nuts, citron, conserves, dates 
and raisins. Pinch the skin firmly together and mould them 
the shape of fresh figs. Dip in powdered sugar and use as a 
bonbon. 



BEVERAGES. 



"One sip of this 
Will bathe the drooping spirits in delight 
Beyond the bliss of dreams." 

— Milton. 



BEVERAGES. 



Blackberry Wine. 

Fill a 5-gaIIon jar with berries that are thoroughly ripe and 
free from dirt. Mash them well and allow them to remain for 
36 hours. Squeeze through a heavy bag and measure the juice. 
Allow 3 pounds of brown sugar to every quart of juice. Put the 
two in a large open-mouth jar and throw a cloth over it. Skim 
every day until the beads stop forming over the top. Put in 
a demijohn and tie a thin piece of muslin over the mouth. After 
two months, or after all sign of fermentation has ceased, draw 
off and bottle for use. 

Grape Wine. 

Uather small purple grapes when thoroughly ripe. Pick 
from the stem only those that are firm and throw them in a bowl 
of cold water. Mash and drain, and make as blackberry wine. 

Grape Juice. 

Pick all sound grapes from the bunch and fill a stew-pan 
^ full. Wash the grapes well before using. Cover well with 
water and boil slowly for 20 minutes, or ^ hour if they are not 
broken. Strain through a bag, extracting all the juice. Put the 
liquid in a kettle with a cuo of white sugar to each quart of 
juice and boil for 10 minutes. Bottle and seal. This can be 
made of any good purple grape. 

Parsnip Wine. 

Chop enough parsnips to fill a quart measure, and then cover 
them with i gallon of water. Boil for i hour, strain off and add 
3 pounds of white sugar. When cold, mix in i tablespoon of 
hop yeast. Let stand 6 months, and then bottle and cork. 



I40 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Strawberry Acid. 

Six ounces tartaric acid, 2 quarts water, 12 pounds straw- 
berries. Allow to stand 48 hours, then strain. To every pound 
of juice add 13^ pounds of sugar. Bottle and cork tightly. 

Champagne Punch. 

One quart of Apolinaris water, i quart Sautern, 6 lemons 
(juice only), 3 oranges (juice only), i cup best green tea, ^ 
pound white sugar, i wineglass chartruse, i wineglass of Angos- 
tura bitters, 3 bottles champagne. Mix all ingredients but the 
champagne. This must be added just before serving. Enough 
for 20 people. 

A Good Plain Punch. 

One quart of whiskey, 3^ pint rum, i large teacup of strong 
green tea, i goblet orange juice, i lemon. Sweeten to taste. 

Tea Punch. 

Eight teaspoonfuls of best tea ; green is best. Peel of 6 
lemons, put in i quart of cold water and boil long enough to 
extract the flavor (about 20 minutes). Strain the tea, then add 
i}i pounds of sugar, the juice of 6 lemons, and i quart of 
Jamaica spirit. Slice 2 lemons very thin, and add to the punch. 
Just before serving pour in i quart of champagne and drop a 
block of ice in tlie bowl. 

Egg-Nog. 

Six eggs, 1 quart of cream, 4 pounds of sugar (powdered), 
I tumbler best brandy, j^ tumbler best sherry. Beat the yelks 
light, then beat in >4 the sugar, then pour in, while stirring 
slowly, the brandy and wine to cook the eggs. Beat the eggs 
stiff, and with them beat the rest of the sugar. Mix with the 
other materials, and, lastly, stir in the cream. 



BEVERAGES. 141 

Punch. 

Take the juice of 20 lemons to i pound of powdered sugar, 
mix ana allow it to remain over night. Next day add i pint of 
brandy, i quart of rum, i quart champagne, i dozen soda. Put 
in a large lump of ice. Flavor with pineapple, strawberries, or 
any fresh fruit you prefer. 

Egg-Nog. 

To each glass of milk use i egg, i tablespoon sugar, i wine- 
glass of whiskey, and rum to taste. Beat the yelks and sugar 
together; beat in the milk and stir hard. Pour over this the 
whiskey, a little at a time, as it cooks the eggs, and must be 
beaten all the time the whiskey is being poured in. Add rum. 
Beat the whites of the eggs and pile over the top. Set in a cool 
place. Double or triple these proportions as needed. 

Raspberry Vinegar. 

To 4 quarts of red raspberries add enough vinegar to cover 
them, and let it stand 24 hours. Scald and strain. Add i pound 
of sugar to i pint of juice, and boil for 20 minutes. Bottle and 
seal. Ready for immediate use, and will keep for years if tightly 
sealed. To every glass of water add i tablespoon of the vinegar. 

Champagne Cocktail. 

Use a champagne goblet. One lump of sugar, i dash of 
bitters, i piece of lemon peel, i slice of orange, one-third glass 
shaved ice. Fill with champagne and mix well. 

Manhattan Cocktail. 

Use a mixing glass. One-half glass ice, 2 dashes rum, 2 
dashes Angostura, 2 dashes Maraschino, >^ wineglass whiskey, 
y2 wineglass French vermuth. Stir well and strain into cocktail 
glass, adding a cherry. If wanted dry, use Italian vermuth. 



142 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Hot Scotch. 

Use hot Scotch cup. One wineglass Scotch whiskey, i lump 
sugar, I piece lemon peel, ^4 glass hot water. Grate nutmeg 
on top and serve. 

High Ball. 

One lump ice, i jigger old whiskey; fill with carbonated 
water and serve. 

Life Saver. 

Use a small punch glass. Three small lumps ice, 3 dashes 
lemon juice, a little sugar, ^ pony gin, ^ pony vermuth. Stir 
well, adding seltzer until full. 

Rickey. 

Take >4 lime and squeeze it in a goblet ^ full of ice, add i 
drink of whiskey, and stir with seltzer. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



" Happy in this, she is not yet so old 
But she may learn." 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

Chocolate. 

Scrape 3 ounces of sweetened chocolate ; add 2 tablespoons 
of sugar and 3 tablespoons of water. Stir over a hot fire until 
smooth. Add i quart of boiling milk, and cook for a few 
minutes. Season with i teaspoon of Sauer s vanilla, and serve 
with whipped cream. You can use half milk and half water, 
if you prefer a drink not so rich. 

Beef Tea. 

One pound round of beef, freed from all fat and grisle. Cut 
in dice and cover with cold water for 15 minutes to extract the 
juice. Then set the pan on the fire and boil for 20 minutes. 
Beat an egg until light, and strain into it the juice, which must 
be boiling hot. Season with pepper and salt. Just before using 
pour through a thin cloth that has been wrung out in cold water. 
Heat thoroughly and add a few celery seed to flavor. 

Lemon Butter, No. i. 

Grate the yellow from the rind of 2 lemons and squeeze out 
the juice. Two cups sugar, 2 eggs (beaten separately). Mix 
the yelk and sugar, then add the beaten whites and lemon. Pour 
over this I cup of boiling water. Stir into it 2 tablespoons of 
flour, rubbed smooth with ^2 cup of cold water. Run through 
a strainer, and add i tablespoon of butter. Cook until thick and 
smooth. This can be used for pies, cakes or as a preserve. 

Lemon Butter, No. 2. 

Beat 6 eggs, i pound sugar and ^i pound of butter. Mix 
well and set in a pan of water. Add 3 lemons, juice and rmd, 



146 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

and stir briskly until thick enough not to run. Use in cake 
or on bread and crackers. 

Molasses. 

Four pounds brown sugar, i quart of boiling water. Cook 
until thick. 

Burnt Syrup. 

One pound of brown sugar, put over the fire in a sauce-pan, 
stir all the time until it melts and begins to burn. Then quickly 
add I pint of boiling water and cook until a rich syrup. Season 
when cold with Sauer's vanilla, and use as any other syrup for 
cakes. 

Golden Syrup. 

Five pounds of white sugar, i quart boiling water. Boil for 
5 minutes and add 2 pounds strained honey. Beat hard and 
cook well. 

To Season Whipped Cream. 

One quart of cream, whipped until it is stiff ; 2 tablespoons 
of pulverized sugar, i tablespoon of Sauer's vanilla extract. The 
cream should whip up double its quantity, and be firm and stiflf 
before the seasonings and sugar are added. 

Caramel for Seasoning. 

Two pounds of brown sugar. Burn over a hot fire until it 
smokes. Pour over it i quart of boiling water and stir until 
thoroughly dissolved. Boil to a rich syrup and bottle for use. 

Pudding Sauce, 

One-halt cup butter, i cup sugar, 5 eggs. Beat butter and 
sugar to a cream ; throw in the well-beaten yelks, then the 
whites, and stir to a froth. Add brandy or wine to your taste. 
Put in a stew-pan and place over the fire until it almost boils. 
Use for cakes or puddings. 



MISCELLANEOUS. i47 

Chocolate Paste, 

Three ounces Baker's chocolate, i cup boilmg water, >4 cup 
sugar, I teaspoon Sauer's vanilla extract. Grate chocolate or 
cut it up in small pieces. Pour the boiling water and sugar 
over it, and cook until a thick paste. Season, and when cold 
use on bread or crackers. 

Sugar. 

Pulverized sugar will not lump so quickly if kept tightly 
covered in small wooden kegs. 

Pickles. 

Cover your pickles that are in brine with strips of horse 
radish and they will not mould. 

Milk for Sleeplessness. 

Try a glass of hot milk just before going to bed. It will help 
you sleep and quiet the nerves. 

For Chapped Hands. 

One teaspoon glycerine, lo grains borax, 2 tablespoons rose 
water. Mix and bottle. 

Another. 

Two ounces rose water, i ounce glycerine, 2 ounces lemon 
juice. Mix well and use as a lotion. 

To Prevent Chapped Hands. 

Take the yelk of an egg, ^ cup of pure honey, i cup corn- 
meal, and form into a ball. Place in a cool, dry place and allow 
it to harden. Use instead of soap during the winter, and the 
hands will not chap. 



148 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Cleaning Fluid, 

Four ounces of ammonia, 4 ounces castile soap, 2 ounces 
alcohol, 2 ounces glycerine, 2 ounces ether. Shake well and use 
for cleaning spots from woollen clothing. 

To Keep Cake Fresh. 

Place 2 firm apples in the box with the cake, and you will 
find the cake keeps fresh a long time. 

To Remove Ink Stains. 

Rub ripe tomatoes on a spot of ink on any wash cloth, and 
it will disappear. They will remove the stains from the hands 
also. 

For a Cough. 

Whip the white of an egg to a stiff froth. Add 3 tablespoons 
of powdered sugar and the juice from ^ a lemon. Beat well, 
and take a teaspoonful every half hour. This will loosen a tight 
cough and relieve the throat very much. 

Peeling Onions. 

When onions are peeled in large quantities, and the eyes 
smart from the strength of them, you can do away with a great 
deal of it by peeling them under water. 

To Prevent Boiling Over. 

In prc^-^rving, throw a tablespoon of cold water in a kettle 
that is boiling over, and it will stop for a second or two, long 
enough to save the juice and remove the kettle to a cooler part 
of the stove. 

Lemons will keep fresh many days if covered with fresh 
water, changing it every two days. 



INDEX. 



INDEX. 



Soups — 

Vegetable Soup, 9 

Noodles for Soup, Q 

Potato Soup, 10 

Chicken Scup, lO 

Chicken Jelly Soup, lO 

Cream of Celery Soup, lo 

Split Pea Soup, ii 

Brunswick Stew, ii 

Mock Turtle Soup, ii 

Oysters — 

Fried, I5 

Scalloped I5 

Pigs in Blankets, iS 

Pickle IS 

Raw, i6 

Meats — 

Scotch Collops, 19 

Beef Balls, 19 

To Boil a Ham, 19 

To Stuff a Ham, 19 

Ham Balls, 20 

Breaded Chops, 20 

A Sweet Lamb Stew, 21 

Fried Chicken, 21 

Mush Cakes, 21 

Pressed Chicken, 21 

Chicken Fritters, 22 

Chicken Fried with Cream 

Gravy 22 

Stuffing for Fowls, 22 

Stuffing for Ducks, 22 

Chestnut Stuffing, 22 

Breads — 

Yeast, 25 

Sponge 25 

Light Bread, 26 

Corn, 26 



Breads — Continued. 

Batter Bread 26 

Spoon Corn Bread, 27 

Risen Muffins, 27 

Beaten Biscuits, 27 

Waffles without Eggs, 28 

Brown Bread, 28 

Quick Sally Lunn, 28 

Palias Royal Biscuits, 28 

Juliet's Pop-Overs, 28 

Luncheon Gems, 29 

Fruit Loaf, 29 

Cinnamon Buns, 29 

Powder Biccuit, 29 

Thin Biscuits, 3° 

Potato Rolls, 30 

Buckwheat Cakes, 3° 

Royal Corn Bread, 30 

Sauces and Catsups — 

Tomato, 33 

Grape, 33 

Lemon, 33 

Walnut, 34 

Seasoning for Gravies, 34 

Celery Vinegar, 34 

Green Tomato Sauce, 34 

Ripe Tomato Sauce, 35 

Pepper Sauce, 35 

Egg Sauce 35 

Pickles and Preserves — 

Pickled Onions, 39 

Cucumbers, 39 

Cucumbers made in Molasses, 40 

Good Proportions for Pickling, 40 

Chow Chow, 40 

Yellow Pickle, 4^ 

Yellow Cabbage Pickle, 41 

Mustard Pickle, 42 

Mustard Chow Chow, 42 



152 



TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 



Pickles and Preserves — Continued. Vegetables — Continued, 



Ripe Tomato Pickle, 42 

Chopped Pickle 43 

Gherkins 43 

Plain Mangoes, 43 

Oil Mangoes, 44 

Peach Mangoes, 44 

Sweet Peach Pickle, 45 

Pickled Damsons, 45 

Pickled Plums, 45 

Crab- Apple Pickle, 45 

Spiced Currants, 46 

Spiced Cherries, 46 

Watermelon Pickle 46 

Sweet Cantaloupe Pickle, .... 46 

Sweet Watermelon Pickle, . . 47 

Pickled Eggs 47 

Good Proportions for Preserv- 
ing, 48 

Hints 48 

General Directions, 48 

Strawberries Preserved Whole, 49 
To Preserve Strawberries in 

Wine, 49 

Pears Preserved Whole, 49 

Sliced Pear Preserves, 49 

Sliced Pippins, 50 

Apple Mange, 50 

Orange Conserves, 50 

Preserved Orange Peel, 50 

Peach Marmalade, 51 

Sweet Meats, Si 

Pineapple Preserves, 51 

Preserved Quinces, 52 

Quince Paste, 52 

Preserved Grapes, 52 

Crab- Apples 52 

Blackberry Jam, =;3 

To Jelly Fruit, S3 

Grape Jelly, 53 

Peach Jelly S3 

Tutti Fruitti, S4 

Brancfy Peaches, 54 

Brandy Pears, 55 

Brandy Peaches, SS 

Vegetables — 

Stuffed Potatoes, S9 

Potato Chips, 59 



Potato Croquettes, 60 

Moulded Potatoes, 60 

Potato Baskets, 60 

Potato Cakes, 60 

Potato Balls, 60 

Stuffed Potatoes with Meat,. . 61 

Baked Potatoes, 61 

Rice Croquettes, 61 

Corn Fritters, 61 

Corn Pudding, 61 

Ladies' Cabbage, 62 

Stuffed Cabbage, 62 

Stuffed Peppers 62 

Browned Sweet Potatoes, .... 63 

Stuffed Onions 63 

Maccaroni and Oysters, 63 

Spinach and Eggs, 63 

Creamed Beans, 64 



Pies — 

Pastry, 67 

Chess Cake Pie, 67 

Love Puffs, 67 

Cocoanut Cream Pie, 67 

Cocoanut Pie, 68 

Cocoanut Pie Baked in Dou- 
ble Crust, 68 

Cocoanut Gems, 68 

Lemon Pie 68 

Lemon Pie, 69 

White Lemon Pie, 69 

Sweet Potato Pie, 69 

Rich Sweet Potato Pie, 69 

Raisin Pie, 69 

Caramel Pie, 70 

Fritters, 70 

Pancakes, 70 

Cream Puffs, 70 

Apple Dumplings, 71 

Drop Cakes, 71 

Raisin Puffs, 71 

Mince Meat, 72 

Puddings — 

Poor Man's Pudding, 75 

Huckleberry Pudding, 75 

Blackberry Pudding, 76 



INDEX. 



153 



Puddings — Continued. 

Soda Pudding, 76 

Country Pudding, 76 

Apple Pudding, 76 

Sponge Pudduig to Eat with 

Wine Sauce, 77 

Sponge Pudding, yj 

Plum Pudding, 77 

Sweet Potato Pudding, 7S 

Grated Pudding, 78 

Boiled Custard, 78 

Baked Custard, 79 

Boiled Cocoanut Custard, .... 79 

Custard Maccaroons, 7g 

Spanish Cream, 79 

Meringues, 80 

Snow Pudding, 80 

Rice Caramel Pudding, 80 

Cream Pudding, 81 

Corn Starch Pudding, 81 

Strawberry Short Cake, 82 

Chocolate Pudding, 82 

Cakes — 

General Rules for Mixing, ... 85 

Old-Fashioned Jumbles, 85 

German Pretzels, or Ringlets, 86 

Tea Cakes, 86 

Queen Cake, 86 

Cinnamon Cake, 86 

Sauer's Vanilla Drop Cakes,. . 86 

Cocoanut Cakes, 87 

Marguerites, 87 

Ginger Snaps 87 

Molasses Cookies, 87 

Old-Fashioned Ginger Cakes, 88 

Rich Drop Cakes, 88 

Peanut Cookies, 88 

Cookies, 88 

Currant Cookies, 88 

Sauer's Vanilla Cookies, 89 

Ring Timbles, 89 

Christmas Cookies, 89 

Dough-Nuts, 89 

Crullers, 90 

Vanilla Snaps, 90 

Christmas Stars, 90 

Kisses, 91 

Creole Kisses, 91 



Cakes — Continued. 

Cup Cake, 91 

Marble Cake, 91 

Rich Marble Cake, 92 

White Cake, 92 

Dover Cake, 92 

Cocoanut Cake, 92 

Cocoanut-Chocolate Cake, ... 93 

Chocolate Cake, 93 

Caramel Cake, ,. . . . 93 

Lemon Cake, 94 

Walnut Cake, 94 

Date Cake, 94 

Silver and Gold Cake, 95 

Fig Cake, 95 

Sponge Cake, 95 

Almond Cake, 96 

White Fruit Cake, 96 

Black Fruit Cake, 96 

Light Fruit Cake, 96 

Large Fig Cake, 97 

Lemon Citron Cake, 97 

Rolled Jelly Cake, 97 

Raisin Cake, 98 

Raisin and Citron Cake, 98 

German Wine Cake, 98 

German Bread Cake, 98 

Raisin Ginger Bread, 98 

Ginger Bread, 99 

Ginger Cup Cake, 99 

Cherry Cake, 99 

Almond Cake, 99 

A Quick Cake, 100 

Good Cake to Eat with Sauce, 100 

Orange Icing, 100 

Cooked Orange Filling, 100 

Chocolate Icing, loi 

Chocolate Cream Icing, loi 

Cinnamon Icing, lOl 

Caramel Icing, lOi 

Cream, Jellies, Etc. — 

Freezing 105 

Pure Vanilla Cream, 105 

Strawberry Cream, 105 

Raspberry Cream, 105 

Peach Cream, 106 

Apple Cream, 106 

Banana Cream, 106 



154 



TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 



Cream, Jellies, Etc. — Continued. 

Pineapple Cream, io6 

Bisque, 107 

Caramel Cream, 107 

Chocolate Ice Cream, 107 

Lemon Ice Cream, 107 

Sultana Roll, 108 

Chestnut Cream, 108 

Frozen Pudding, loS 

Maple Cream, 109 

Chocolate Sauce for Cream,. . 109 

Mint Sauce for Vanilla Cream, 109 

Lemon Ice, 109 

Orange Ice no 

Gelatme Ice, no 

Ambrosia, no 

Blanc-Mange, no 

Custard Blanc-Mange, no 

German Blanc-Mange, in 

Snow Flake, in 

Apple Snow, in 

Jelly, in 

Tutti Fruitti Jelly, 112 

Charlotte Russe, 112 

Custard Charlotte Russe, .... 112 

Marshmallow Souffle, 112 

Apple and Cocoanut, 113 

Salads — 

Potato Salad, 117 

Turkey Salad, 117 

Celery Salad, 117 

Sweetbread Salad, 118 

Shad Roe Salad, 118 

Tomato Salad, 118 

Cucumber Salad, 119 

Asparagus Salad, 119 

A Dainty Fruit Salad, 119 

Cherry Salad, 119 

Apple Salad, 120 

Walnut Salad, 120 

Daisy Salad, 120 

Fish Salad, 120 

Salmon Salad, 120 

Salad Dressings — 

Cream Salad Dressing, 121 

Hot Cream Dressing, 121 



Salad Dressings — Continued. 

Salad Dressing, 121 

Slaw Dressing, 121 

Slaw Dressing Without Milk,- 122 

Mayonnaise Dressing, 122 

French Dressing, 122 

Tartare Dressing, 122 

Cooked Dressing, 122 

Various Dishes — 

Deviled Crabs, 125 

Welsh Rarebit, 125 

Omelette, 125 

Baked Eggs, 125 

Stuffed Eggs, 126 

Codfish Balls, 126 

Jellied Tongue, 126 

Timbale of Cold Meat, 126 

Moulden Salmon, 127 

Veal Croquettes, 127 

Salmon Croquetttes, 128 

Chicken Croquettes, 128 

Chestnut Croquettes, 128 

Curry, 128 

Scrapie, 129 

Celery Sandwiches, 129 

Ham Sandwich, 130 

Lettuce Sandwich, 130 

Peanut Sandwich, 130 

Cheese Straws, 130 

Kidney Stew, 130 

Candies — 

Fondant, 133 

"Potatoes," 133 

A Good Tafify Pull, 133 

Cocoanut Drops, 133 

Brown Cocoanut Candy, 134 

Maple Creams, 134 

Chocolate Caramels, 134 

Cream Chocolate Caramels, . . 134 

Cocoanut Caramels, 134 

Nut Fudge, 135 

Cream Candy, 135 

Peanut Nugat, I35 

Marroons, I35 

Peppermint Droos, 136 

Peppermint Cream Drops, ... 136 



INDEX. 



155 



Candies — Continued. 

Stuffed Dates, 136 

Marshmallow Creams, 136 

Stuffed Figs, 136 

Beverages — 

Blackberry Wine, 139 

Grape Wine, 139 

Grape Juice, 139 

Parsnip Wine, 139 

Strawberry Acid, 140 

Champagne Punch, 140 

A Good Plain Punch, 140 

Tea Punch, 140 

Egg-Nog, 140 

Punch, 141 

Raspberry Vinegar, 141 

Champagne Cocktail, 141 

Manhattan Cocktail, 141 

Hot Scotch, 142 

High Ball 142 

Life Saver, 142 

Rickey, 142 



Miscellaneous — 

Chocolate, 145 

Beef Tea, 145 

Lemon Butter, No. i, 145 

Lemon Butter, No. 2, 145 

Molasses, 146 

Burnt Syrup, 146 

Golden Syrup, 146 

To Season Whipped Cream,.. 146 

Caramel for Seasoning 146 

Pudding Sauce, 146 

Chocolate Paste, 147 

Sugar, 147 

Pickles, 147 

Milk for Sleeplessness, 147 

For Chapped Hands, 147 

To Prevent Chapped Hands,. 147 

Cleaning Fluid, 148 

To Keep Cake Fresh, 148 

To Remove Ink Stains, 148 

For a Cough, 148 

Peeling Onions 148 

To Prevent Boiling Over, . . . 148 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



"The Cup that Cheers." 



LIPTON'S TEAS 




CE, Buy a package of the deUcious Tea and 

give it to your friends for afternoon tea. 

They will be delighted with its exquisite 

flavor. 

d. Packed in air tight cans only. 

CL All grocers handle it. 



Fragrant and Delicious 



Will Not Bite the Tongue 



Best for Pipe Smokers 




^•■THE manufacture of LUCKY STRIKE amourTts to a great discovery 
/ J in its originality, and is beyond imitation. It is WHOLESOME — 
^^^ the nicotine being so eliminated that it may be used constantly Avith- 
out risk of nervousness and other troubles attending the excessive use 
of tobacco. It is a COOL, MILD SMOKE, and will not bite the tongue. 
Thousands of voluntary testimonials from Pipe Smokers attest the true merits 
of LUCKY STRIKE. 

R. A. Patterson Tobacco Co., 

Richmond, Virginia. 



MRS. R. J. JOHNSON'S 



The Best Pickle on the Market. Sold by the Leading 
Grocers of the Country. 

Ask your Grocer for it, and if he does not carry it in stock insist 
upon his writing for prices to 

MRS. R. J. JOHNSON PICK'LE CO., 

16th and Brown Sts., Richmond, Va. 



'Phone 3052. 



Mnnn $c Irnhin, iFIortfits 




No. 5 W. Broad St. 



Richmond, Virginia 



'PHONE 3121 ENGRAVER OF CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, MONOGRAMS, &C. 

NUDD 

Malrh Ee^jairtug nnh lEn^rafaing 

FORMERLv :w.TH 222 E. BROAD STREET, 

c..uMsr.EK.so. RICHMOND, VA. 

J. B. MOORE & CO. 




1009 E. Main Street, Richmond, Va. 



Phone 4701. 205 E. BROAD ST. 

BROWNE & CONSTINE, 

l|0Ujs? iFurntBljtttgB 

•I? 

Pave the "Road to the Heart" with the right goods, at right 
prices. We have the most complete stock of them. 

Am^rtratt Naltnnal ISank 

UNITED STATES, STATE AND CITY 
DEPOSITARY. 

Commercial Accounts. — Received on most favorable terms, 
consult us. 

Savings Accounts. — Our Savings Department oflFers the same 

terms as Savings Banks. Pays 3 per cent. 
Safe deposit boxes for rent. 

We issue our drafts on all commercial cities of the world. 
We have a separate dapartment for women, whom we cordially 

welcome. 
The increasing popularity of the "American Bank" is clearly 

indicated by the magnitude of its deposits. 



HERMANN SCHMIDT 

500 E. BROAD STREET 

UmpovUtB 



I 



fi'^^ 



The required ingredients for all the recipes in this book can be 
purchased of us. 



J CEMTURY DEVOTED TO 



Established 1S04. 



o 



RICHMOND 
VIRGINIA 



DIXIE SOAP WORKS, 

For the FAMILY and LAUNDRY service 

is recommended. fVe Guarantee Ne'v South Soap Strictly Pure, from fresh, 
clarified stock and high teste alkali ; is a borax soap, thoroughly saponified, 
and will not injure fabric in a laundry. We sell a single box to family. Try 
a box, put soap on shelf, better for age. We feel confident you will find the 
cost money well expended. 

Mail address No. 117 N. 17th Street. 

P. J. CREW & COMPANY, 

Factories: 113, 115, 117 and 1309-11-13-15 
North 17th Street. 



A 



SOAPS FOR SOUTHERN HOMES 



DEC 89 1904 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES 



3 3433 07736262 6 




The Way to the Heart 



fSjMa to tlje 



A COLLECTION OF 
TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES 



PREPARED AND ARRANGED BY 

CARRIE PICKETT MOORE 



Many men of many minds 
Is a rhyme of olden times ; 
But the minds of men to-day 
*To good cooking find a 'way. 



RICHMOND, VIRGINIA 

WHITTET & SHEPPERSON, PUBLISHERS AND PRINTERS 

Nineteen-Five 




COPYRIGHT 



BY 



CARRIE PICKETT MOORE, 



1905*. 



. 












f 








PREFACE. 

The following recipes have been tested, and I have found 
them correct in every proportion ; also, mixing and serving. 
They are a collection of old Virginia recipes, many of them 
handed down and used for three generations. Having tried 
them, I feel justified in recommending them to the public as 
being safe and sure, that is, if the rules are carefully followed 
for mixing and preparing the dishes. All of them are not my 
own, some having been given me by old friends, but I have 
used them so successfully that I feel they belong to me by right 
of long usage. I trust the housekeeper into whose hands this 
little book may fall will find it a help to her, and that in the 
future it will make cooking a pleasure and not a care. 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Soups, ..... 9 

Oysters, . 15 

Meats, . 19 

Breads, . . . . . . ... . . 25 

Sauces and Catsups . . 33 

Pickles and Preserves. . -39 

Vegetables ; . . -59 

Pies, ... 67 

Puddings, . 75 

Cakes. ... .... . . . -85 

Cream, Jellies, etc., . . . . . 105 

Salads, . . . . . 117 

Various Dishes, . 125 

Candies, .... . . 133 

Beverages, ....... . 139 

Miscellaneous, . . 145 

Index, 149 



SOUPS. 



" Cookery is become an art, a noble science." 

B art nn. 



Tested Virginia Recipes. 



SOUPS. 

We all know what makes the basis of a good soup. If we 
have a quart of well-made stock we can have a soup of the best 
kind in an hour's time. This stock can be made the day before 
using, and while hot poured into an earthenware bowl to cool ; 
when cold, skim the fat that has caked on top, and you can 
then add what vegetables are required. 

Stock is simply the foundation, and is made by boiling a 
shank of ham, or the trimmings from joints and cutlets, slowly 
in clear water until all the juice has been extracted. Slow boil- 
ing insures the results we look for. Remember that after the 
vegetables are added you must boil one hour, no more, season 
and serve at once. 

Vegetable Soup. 

Put a loc. shank of beef in 6 quarts of water; boil for 3 
hours. Then add 3 carrots cut in dice; boil another hour; then 
add a can of tomatoes, 4 pods of okra, 4 Irish potatoes, a can 
of corn - - or 4 ears of corn - - i onion, pepper and salt, and boil 
half an hour more. Drop a bunch of herbs in the pot just before 
taking from the fire. 

Noodles for Soup. 

Take the yolks of 2 raw eggs, mix with flour enough to roll 
a stiff dough, roll into a thin sheet, sprinkle with flour and roll 
again. Cut into threads and drop in the boiling soup; just 
cook through. This makes enough for soup from I chicken. 



io TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Potato Soup. 

One dozen large mealy potatoes, 2 onions, I pound salt pork, 
3 quarts water, i tablespoon of butter, I cup of milk, I egg. 
Chop the onion. Boil the pork in the water for an hour and 
a half. Strain. Have potatoes peeled and sliced. Throw into 
the pot with onion, cover and boil 45 minutes, stirring often. 
Beat into the egg the butter; add this to the soup, and stir 
well while it heats to a final boil. Serve at once. 

Chicken Soup. 

Dress and cut up a chicken. Boil it in 3 quarts of water 
until all the nutriment has been extracted, then add noodles 
and i tablespoon of rice. Flavor with celery seed, salt and 
pepper. 

Chicken Jelly. 

One chicken simmered in i quart of water until only i pint 
remains. Season with salt. Strain the juice from the chicken, 
and when cold skim off all oil that has formed over the top. 
If preferred hot, set in a pan of boiling water over the fire until 
thoroughly heated, and then serve. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 

Cut in small pieces the outside from 12 or 14 stalks of 
celery- -save the inside for table use. Cover the bits with 
i pint of cold water; bring' to the boiling point and simmer 
half an hour. Drain and pass through a colander, using as 
much celery as will press through. Add to this i pint of milk. 
Put the whole into a double boiler and allow to heat. Rub 
together i tablespoon of butter and 2 of flour, and stir carefully 
into the soup. Stir and cook until smooth. Add a dash of 
celery salt, i of pepper, and serve. 



SOUPS. ii 

Split Pea Soup. 

Take a quart of split pease and add 2 quarts of water. Let 
them boil until you can mash them through a colander, leaving 
rhe hulls separate. Put the soup on the fire again, with a 
generous slice of salt pork; if the pease are too thick for a 
second boiling, add a little hot water. Boil for I hour. Just 
before serving drop in I ounce of butter. Season with pepper 
and salt, beat well, and turn into a steaming tureen. 

Brunswick Stew. 

The secret of a good Brunswick stew is long, slow boiling. 
It should be started early in the morning and allowed to boil 
for several hours. Take 2 good-size squirrels, 3 quarts of cold 
water, i onion, and a strip of bacon- -not pork- -and put them 
on to boil. It should boil 4 hours, unless the squirrel is very 
old and tough, in which case boil longer. When the meat has 
left the bones, remove the pot and pick out every piece of 
bone and skin, leaving the meat in shreads. Add to this stock 
6 ears of corn cut from the cob, I quart of ripe tomatoes, i 
quart butter beans, 4 large Irish potatoes, and the juice of i 
lemon. Let this cook for another hour, stirring well to keep 
from burning. It should now be thick enough to eat with a 
fork, and is ready to serve. Add i tablespoon of Worcestershire 
sauce before serving. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 

Have your calf's head well cracked, and then remove the 
brains. After soaking in clear water, put it in the pot with a 
large onion and enough water to cover it. Add boiling water 
as the water boils down. Cook until the meat falls from the 
bone. Strain the liquor and throw the meat in it. Season to 
taste with pepper and salt, and add a dash of ground allspice. 



12 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

cloves and mace. Heat well again, as it cools while straining. 
Put 4 tablespoons of browned flour with 4 ounces of butter, 
and make force meat balls with i pint of veal chopped fine ; 
add a little thyme, salt and pepper. Fry brown and let them 
cool. Chop fine 4 hard-boiled eggs and put them in the bottom 
of the tureen, drop in the balls and pour the soup over them. 
\\ hen the soup comes off the fire add i tumbler of port or 
claret and serve at once. 



OYSTERS. 



Why, then, the world's mine oyster, 
Which I with sword will open." 

Shakespeare. 



OYSTERS. 

Fried Oysters. 

Take firm, fresh oysters and cleanse them well ; dry and 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place 2 or 3 together, unless 
they are very large ; dip in a well-beaten egg", then in cracker 
dust, and fry in smoking hot lard. Garnish with points of lemon 
and parsley. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

After cleaning the oysters, drain and place on a dry cloth 
while you prepare the following: Make a cream gravy of I 
pint of milk, 2 tablespoons of flour and I tablespoon of butter. 
Use fancy shells to bake them in. Place a layer of oysters and 
then one of bread crumbs until the shells are well filled- -they 
should hold about 6 or 7 large oysters ; sprinkle bits of celery 
and butter over the top, and pour over the whole 2 tablespoons 
of the cream dressing. Dust the top with crumbs and bake a 
delicate brown. 

Pigs in Blankets. 

Get the largest oysters possible and drain them from the 
liquor, discarding the small ones. Place 2 together, and wrap 
around them a long thin slice of bacon. After all the oysters 
have been dressed, fry the little pigs just as you would an 
ordinary slice of bacon. Serve on toast garnished with parsley. 

Pickle Oysters. 

Two quarts of oysters, 2 teacups vinegar, i tablespoon whole 
allspice, a few blades mace, i lemon, the peel from i orange, 
i pod red pepper, salt to taste. Slip the oysters through your 



16 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

fingers, removing all bits of shell that cling to them, and strain 
the liquor well. Throw them together again and stew until 
the oysters curl ; strain and throw in ice-cold water to plump 
them, changing the water twice. As they cool drain all water 
from them and drop in a stone jar. Put the vinegar, spice, peel 
and pepper to the hot juice and allow them to come to a boil; 
slice the lemon and chop the pepper pod in small pieces, and 
mix with the boiling liquor. Remove from the fire, and when 
lukewarm pour over the oysters and cover with a cloth. Good 
in 36 hours. If not sour enough, add a little more vinegar. 

Raw Oysters. 

Oysters must be kept in a very cold place before opening 
them; but never allow them to freeze, for once frozen they 
quickly turn sour and are useless. They should be opened on 
the deep shell, so as to better preserve the liquor, the stabbing 
knife run under them and the shells placed on ice for a few 
minutes before serving. Arrange 6 shells on every plate, with 
a half lemon and a spoonful of grated horse-radish. Serve with 
anv small cracker or a nice salt wafer. 



MEATS. 



" Some books are to be tasted, others to be 
swallowed, and some few to be chewed 
and digested." Bacon. 



MEATS. 

Scotch Collops. 

Take I pound of chopped beef and mix with it i chopped 
onion, a little pepper and salt, and put it in a frying pan. When 
the meat has cooked through, thicken the gravy with a little 
browned flour, and serve on a flat dish, garnished with fried 
potato balls. 

Beef Balls. 

Run through a meat chopper enough beef to make I pint. 
Add a little parsley, a sprig of thyme, I onion minced fine, I 
cup of fine bread crumbs, I well-beaten egg, pepper and salt. 
Make into small balls, roll in a beaten egg, then in cracker dust, 
and fry. 

To Boil a Ham. 

Any good ham can be improved by being cooked in the 
following way : Cover the ham well with water and add 2 
pounds brown sugar and half cup of Worcestershire sauce. Boil 
slowly half hour for every pound of meat, and let ham cool in 
the water. The next day cover the top with crumbs, sprinkle 
with pulverized sugar, and baste with cider while it bakes a 
rich brown. 

To Stuff a Ham. 

Boil an old Virginia ham (after soaking overnight) half an 
hour for every pound of meat. Take out of the water and place 
on a large dish, bringing the bone side on top. While hot take 
out all bone and remove the skin carefully. Turn the opening 
dow r n and allow it to stand until the next day. What juice 
runs from it save for the filling. Now take an apple-corer and 



20 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

bore small holes through the whole ham, saving what conies 
from it. Fill the holes and the place where the bone came from 
with the following: Grate 4 5-cent loaves of baker's bread, 
using only the soft part; add to this i bunch of parsley, i 
bunch thyme, i onion, i teaspoon of sugar, 2 heaping teaspoons 
ginger, 4 teaspoons celery seed, 2 teaspoons mustard, 2 tea- 
spoons black pepper, i cup of drippings or butter and the ham 
that comes from the holes. Work the whole of it into the 
crumbs. Stuff every available place, and what stuffing is left 
work into the fat on top. The amount can easily be used, 
although it seems a great deal when you start to work rilling it. 
Place the ham on a flat pan and rub the top with the white of 
an egg and bake. This should be kept several days before using 
to allow the seasoning to go all through the meat. 

Ham Balls. 

Take cold ham and chop fine. To every pint of ham add i 
pint of bread crumbs and 4 well-beaten eggs, salt and pepper 
to taste. Mix well and shape in little balls the size of an egg. 
Dip in egg and fry as you would a croquette. Dress the dish 
with potato chips and lettuce leaves. 

Breaded Chops. 

Take i tablespoon of butter and melt it, place in the pan 
with what chops you wish to bread, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and let them soak in the butter while you beat the eggs. 
Dip each chop first in the egg, and then in the cracker dust, 
and broil over a slow fire to prevent burning. Place on a dish 
and pour over them a gravy made of i teacup of hot water, 
i teaspoon melted butter, i tablespoon of milk, pepper and salt. 
The flour must be browned for the gravy. Serve with French 
pease and garnish with cubes of fried potatoes. 



MEATS. 21 

A Sweet Lamb Stew. 

Take what cold meat you have left from the boiled mutton 
of the day before, and cut it into pieces about an inch square. 
To 3 quarts of chopped meat put i quart of water, and heat 
well. When hot add i cup preserved plums or damsons, 3 
large pickled cucumbers and a dash of red pepper. Boil 10 
minutes, and if the gravy is too thin, thicken with a little 
browned flour. It is now ready to serve. 

Fried Chicken. 

Prepare the chicken the day before and place on ice until 
ready to cook, sprinkling a little salt over it. Make a batter 
of i quart of flour, 2 well-beaten eggs, i ounce of butter, and 
enough milk to make a thick batter. \Vipe the chicken dry 
and dip each piece in the batter and fry a golden brown. Serve 
with mush cakes, fried until they are crisp and yellow. 

Mush Cakes. 

Sift i pint of meal with a little salt in it. Beat i egg and 
a piece of butter the size of a w r alnut, and i good teaspoon of 
lard into it. Add enough milk to make the meal hold together, 
and shape in a long roll. Place on ice until chilled, and then 
cut into cakes and fry. 

Pressed Chicken. 

Quarter a fowl and simmer until tender ; remove all skin 
and bone and cut very fine. To the liquor, freed of all fat and 
boiled down until only I cup remains, add ^J of a box of granu- 
lated gelatine, soaked in i cup of cold water. Heat and dissolve. 
Season with salt and pepper and 2 tablespoons of Worcester- 
shire sauce. Add the chopped meat and mix well. Pour into 
oblong moulds and decorate with sliced hard-boiled eggs. Set 

ft 

on ice to harden. 



22 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Chicken Fritters. 

Cut left-over chicken into small pieces ; season with salt 
and pepper. To every cup of minced meat allow y 2 cup of 
cream, i egg and enough flour to make a batter that will hold. 
Fry and serve as a luncheon dish. 

Chicken Fried with Cream Gravy. 

Cut chicken in the usual way for frying. Salt, pepper and 
flour them, and fry a delicate brown. Remove from the pan, 
strain the grease to get rid of all burnt pieces, and add a cup 
of sweet milk to it, and allow it to stew 5 minutes. Thicken 
with a little flour and pour over the chicken just before serving. 

Stuffing for Fowls. 

Chop fine y 2 pound beef suet; mix with it I pound of bread 
crumbs, 3 sprays parsley, I teaspoon of thyme, y 2 onion chipped, 
and 2 w r ell-beaten eggs. This makes an excellent stuffing for 
fowls of any kind. 

Stuffing for Ducks. 

In roasting ducks, fill the bread dressing with onions and 
celery, add a tablespoon or two of creamed Irish potato. This 
makes it light and fluffy. Roast as usual, and place a large 
bunch of curly parsley under one end, surrounding the rest of 
the dish with halves of blood oranges that have been pulled 
apart and laid back in the cups. Serve one cup with each piece 
of duck. 

Chestnut Stuffing. 

Boil i pint of chestnuts and mash through a potato press. 
Mix with i pint of bread crumbs, 2 tablespoons butter, i tea- 
spoon pepper, and salt to taste. When used as a stuffing for 
ducks, add 2 baked apples and a little nutmeg. 



BREADS. 

The very staff of my age, my very prop." 

Shakespeare. 



BREADS. 

The following two recipes for yeast and sponge were given 
me when first 1 began cooking by a friend noted for her beau- 
tiful bread, and I can recommend them as the best: 

Yeast. 

One-half pint of hot mashed potatoes, I gill of salt, i gill 
of sugar, i gill of flour, l / 4 pint of hops (measured lightly), 
2y 2 quarts boiling water, y 2 cake of compressed yeast. Put 
hops in a stew-pan with y 2 pint of boiling water and boil for 
20 minutes. Mix potatoes, flour, sugar and salt and strain hop 
water on them. Beat this mixture well and add the 2 quarts 
of boiling water. Let it stand until it is barely warm, then 
add the yeast cake, dissolved in y> cup of water. Cover the 
bowl and let it stand for 24 hours. Skim and stir the yeast 
several times. Put in a 2-quart preserving jar, fill only two- 
thirds full and cork. Keep in a cool place and shake before 
using. 

Sponge. 

For i quart of flour: Two large potatoes, boiled until soft, 
mash and add l /4 pint of cold water, $y 2 tablespoons of flour 
(from quart), l / 2 cup of yeast or y 2 an yeast cake. Add y 2 
teaspoon of sugar when ready to make the bread. Set sponge 
in a warm place, behind the stove, to rise. In warm weather 
anywhere in the kitchen is warm enough. Sponge takes i hour 
to rise in summer and 2 hours in winter. Make sponge about 
6 : 30 for morning's bread. 



26 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Light Bread. 

Sift i quart of flour and add a full teaspoon of salt, lard 
the size of a walnut and the sponge. Work for 20 minutes and 
put in a jar, which must be slightly greased, to rise. Make 
this up about 8 P. M. Next morning, 2 hours before needed, 
turn the dough out on a tray and work for 10 minutes, using 
a little flour if necessary on the tray. Make in shapes and set 
aside until they have risen to nearly three times their original 
size. Bake in a quick oven. Grease the tops once while baking. 
If the bread is too stiff when you mix it, add a little warm 
water, but be careful not to make it too soft, as the best bread 
should be a stiff dough and worked until it becomes soft. 

Corn Bread. 

One pint of cornmeal, */> pint sweet milk, i egg, lard size 
of an egg, i dessertspoon of yeast powder, i teaspoon of salt. 
Sift meal and powder, add salt and lard. Beat the egg and 
pour milk over, beating the liquid into the meal. Place the 
batter in a square pan and bake slowly. 

Corn Pone. 

One quart of meal, i tablespoon of lard, I tablespoon of 
butter, i teaspoon of salt, and water to make a stiff dough. 
Form into oblong pones a finger long. Pat each one on top, 
leaving the print of your fingers on them, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. If possible, do not open the door until they are 
done, as it hardens the crust. 

Batter Bread. 

Two teacups of cornmeal, 2 teaspoons of salt, i kitchen 
tablespoon lard. Mix and add boiling water enough to make 



BREADS. 27 

a stiff batter. Stir until well mixed. When cold this mixture 
should be stiff enough to slowly move when the bowl is tilted. 
Let it stand for 2 hours. Just before meal time add I egg and 
2 teaspoons baking powder, and milk to make a stiff batter. 
It should be the consistency of cake batter. Stir well and bake 
in a quick oven. The pans should be about 2 inches full before 
baking. 

Spoon Corn Bread. 

One cup boiled rice (or grits), 2 cups meal, I large cup 
milk, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons of melted butter, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder. Mix as you would any other batter bread, and bake 
}/2 an hour in a baking dish. 

Risen Muffins. 

Three eggs, i cooking spoon of yeast, 2 teaspoons of sugar, 
y 2 pint of milk, i quart flour, i teaspoon of salt, butter and lard, 
each size of an egg. Beat together eggs, yeast and sugar, then 
milk and the sifted flour, and lastly the melted butter and lard. 
Rise overnight. Beat once or twice in the morning, and half 
fill muffin cups and set to rise. The dough should be stiffer 
than pound cake. The success of these muffins depends on the 
beating you give them in the morning before they rise the 
second time. 

For Sally Lunn use the same batter and bake in a large 
mould. 

Beaten Biscuits. 

One quart of flour, i heaping teaspoon of salt, 3 gills of 
milk, 2 heaping tablespoons of butter and lard mixed. Work 
thoroughly all the grease into the flour, and mix with the milk 
into a stiff dough. Put through a biscuit break for 15 minutes, 
then beat until they blister. Roll, cut, and bake in a moderate 
oven. 



28 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Waffles Without Eggs. 

( me quart of flour, i pint of milk, I tablespoon of butter, 
a pinch of salt, i tablespoon of yeast. Warm the milk and 
butter and mix with the flour, then beat in the yeast and set to 
rise. Fry in waffle irons. 

Brown Bread. 

One quart of brown flour, i egg, I cup of yeast, ^ cup oi 
molasses, butter size of an egg. Mix as for light bread the night 
before and bake in a loaf the next morning. 

Quick Sally Lunn. 

One quart of flour, y 2 cup of butter, 3 eggs, I cup milk, 3 
teaspoons of baking powder, 2 tablespoons of sugar. Mix as 
you would any other Sally Lunn batter and bake at once in 
a rather quick oven. 

Palias Royal Biscuits. 

One pound of eggs, i pound of sugar, y 2 pound of flour. 
Beat whites and yolks separately. Then stir together; add 
sugar and the grated rind of i lemon and the flour. Drop in 
square tins, sift pulverized sugar over them and bake in a quick 
oven. 

Juliet's Pop-Overs. 

Beat 2 eggs without separating them ; add i cup of milk. 
Put i cup of flour into another bowl, and add to it gradually the 
eggs and milk. Beat until smooth, and strain the batter through 
a strainer. Put at once into hot greased gem pans, and bake 
in a moderate oven 45 minutes. They should swell in baking 
to four times their original bulk. 



BREADS. 29 

Luncheon Gems. 

Separate 2 eggs, add to the yolks ^ pint of milk and I cup 
of cooked rice which has gotten cold. Beat well and add j/4 
teaspoon of salt, I teaspoon of baking powder and I cup of 
chopped dates. Sift into this \ l /> cups of flour and the whites 
of the eggs. Bake in gem pans and serve hot. 

Fruit Loaf. 

One pound of flour, 2 ounces of lard, 2 eggs, 2 ounces of 
sugar, l / 2 pint of milk, l / 2 teaspoon each of ground allspice, 
cloves and cinnamon, j4 pound of seeded raisins, l /\ pound 
currants, y^ pound of blanched almonds, cut in half. Make a 
dough as for loaf bread, using all ingredients except the fruit. 
Put down to rise, and when double its size, work a second time 
and add the fruit. Put down to rise again, and bake in a loaf 
when it has risen to twice its bulk. It takes longer than loaf 
bread to rise and to bake. 

Cinnamon Buns. 

Take any good loaf bread dough and, after the first rise, roll 
out on the biscuit board and sprinkle well with pulverized sugar 
and cinnamon. Spread thickly over the top a good coating 
of sweet butter. Now strew on this a cup of currants and 
another of sifted sugar and cinnamon. Roll in a lengthwise 
piece and cut in pieces an inch thick. Place the buns in a pan 
so they touch, and let them rise well a second time. When 
ready to bake, butter the top and dust with sugar, and bake 
as other bread. 

Powder Biscuit. 

One quart of flour, i teaspoon of salt, 3 teaspoons of baking 
powder, i tablespoon of lard, I pint of sweet milk. Sift together 



30 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

flour, salt and powder. Run in the lard as for pastry, and add 
the milk, working as little as possible to mix thoroughly. Flour 
the rolling board. Roll and cut about an inch thick. Bake in 
quick oven. 

Thin Biscuits. 

Two quarts of flour, i pint of sweet milk, yolks of 3 eggs. 
Mix well and roll as thin as possible. Cut with a round cake 
cutter, and roll each biscuit again as thin as a wafer. Stick with 
a fork and bake as you would any other biscuit. 

Potato Rolls. 

One and a half pounds of Irish potatoes, 6 ounces of lard, 
i l /2 pounds of flour, iy 2 gills of yeast, i egg, a good teaspoon 
of salt. Prepare the potatoes as for table use, and when cold 
break in them the egg. Stir in the lard and yeast, also the salt. 
Work in the flour and let it rise. When light put on the board 
and mould into rolls, and let it rise again. Bake as you would 
other bread. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 



Three-fourths of a pound of buckwheat, y\ of a pound of 
cornmeal, i teaspoon of sugar, iJ/ pints of milk, nearly a gill 
of yeast, salt. Beat well together and let rise overnight. Fry 
cakes the next morning without stirring down. Eat with maple 
syrup or a burnt molasses sauce. 

Royal Corn Bread. 

One pint cornmeal, i pint boiling water, i pint boiling milk, 
6 eggs (beaten separately), i teaspoon salt. The batter will be 
thin and light before baking. Use a deep pan to bake it in. 
To be used as soon as taken from the oven. 



SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 



" Who pepper'd highest was surest to please." 

Goldsmith. 



SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Take I bushel ripe tomatoes and cut them in half. Pour 
over them 3 quarts of hot water, and throw in a handful ol 
peach leaves and 10 onions. Boil for an hour, or until the 
tomatoes have boiled to pieces ; then strain and pour the liquid 
back in the boiler with 2 ounces of allspice, 2 ounces of ground 
pepper, 2 ounces of mustard, I ounce of cloves, 2 grated nut- 
megs, 2 pounds of brown sugar, and 3 pints of vinegar to every 
5 pints of juice, and l /+ pint of salt. Mix well and boil for 2 
hours, stirring to keep from burning. If the 2 hours' boiling 
does not make it thick enough, let it cook awhile longer. Strain 
and seal in small bottles. 

Grape Catsup. 

One quart of ripe purple grapes. Place in a stew-pan and 
cover with vinegar ; cook until soft enough to strain through 
a fine sieve. Add to the strained juice i teaspoon of ground 
cloves, i teaspoon of cinnamon and I pint of brown sugar. Boil 
an hour and bottle when cold. 

Lemon Catsup. 

Twelve large lemons, 4 tablespoons white mustard seed, i 
tablespoon of tumeric, i tablespoon of pepper, a pinch of salt, 

1 tablespoon of cloves, a pinch of cayenne, i tablespoon of mace, 

2 tablespoons of sugar, 2 tablespoons of grated horse radish 
and i shallot chopped. Squeeze the lemons, grate the rind, 
pound the spice, and mix all together. Strew the salt over the 



34 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

whole thing and let stand 2 hours in a cool place. Boil l / 2 hour 
and pour off in a covered vessel. Leave for 2 weeks, stirring 
every day. Strain and bottle. Seal. 

Walnut Catsup. 

Select walnuts that can be pierced with a needle. Prick 
them and lay in a jar with a handful of salt to every 25 walnuts, 
and cover with water. Break with a billet of wood, and allow 
them to stay in the brine for 2 weeks, stirring once a day. 
Drain off the liquor and cover walnuts with boiling vinegar. 
Crush to a pulp and strain through a colander. Allow to every 
quart i ounce each of cloves, black pepper and ginger, and y 2 
ounce of grated nutmeg, pinch of cayenne, I shallot, minced, 
and i teaspoon of celery seed tied in a bag. Boil for an hour 
(if it amounts to a gallon). Bottle when cold. 

Seasoning for Gravies. 

One ounce mustard, y 2 ounce of salt, y 2 ounce of ground 
black pepper, y 2 ounce cayenne, i ounce ground cinnamon, y 2 
ounce allspice, i ounce ginger, J4 pound coriander seed, J4 
pound tumeric. Mix and keep in a well-corked bottle. To be 
used for seasoning. 

Celery Vinegar. 

Twelve stalks of fresh celery, ^4 pound of celery seed, i 
quart best vinegar, i tablespoon salt, i tablespoon sugar. Cut 
celery into small pieces and put it with the seed into a jar. 
Scald the salt and vinegar and pour over the stalks and seed 
Let it cool and put away in tightly-corked bottles. In 2 weeks 
strain and seal in small bottles. 

Green Tomato Sauce. 

Slice i peck of green tomatoes and let them remain covered 
with salt for 24 hours ; then press them from the brine and 



SAUCES AND CAPSUPS. 35 

rinse in clear water, spreading them on flat dishes for 15 
minutes. Take i ounce of black pepper, i ounce of cloves, 
i ounce of ginger, i ounce of allspice, and beat them fine. Add 
4 ounces of white mustard seed and i pound of brown sugar. 
Put all ingredients with the tomatoes in a preserving kettle and 
cover with vinegar. Stew i hour from the time they boil. Slice 
6 onions and boil with the mixture, if you don't object to the 
onion flavor, as it improves the sauce very much. When the 
tomatoes come out of the brine taste them, and if too salty, 
rinse again. 

Ripe Tomato Sauce. 

Nine pounds ripe tomatoes, 4 pounds brown sugar, i table- 
spoon of pepper, i tablespoon of cloves, i tablespoon allspice 
and i tablespoon of salt. Cover with vinegar and boil to a 
thick jam. 

Pepper Sauce. 

Four dozen pepper pods (red or green), 5 large onions cut 
fine, a handful of garlic, i tablespoon of horse radish, 2 quarts 
of vinegar and i of \vater. Boil all together until pepper pods 
can be mashed through a sieve. Then add 4 teaspoons of salt, 
i of allspice and y 2 of cloves. Boil well ; strain and bottle. 
This is an excellent seasoning for soups and gravies, taking 
the place of Worcestershire sauce and tasting very much like it. 

Egg Sauce. 

Beat together y 2 cup of butter and 4 tablespoons of flour. 
Pour on this y 2 pint of boiling water and place over the fire. 
Stir well until it thickens, and add 2 hard-boiled eggs chopped 
fine. Use as a sauce for fish and boiled mutton. 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 

' Peter Pepper picked a peck of pickled peppers." 

Nursery Rhyme. 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 

Pickled Onions. 

Scald i gallon of silver-skin onions - - small ones are the 
best and sprinkle them with salt, first putting in a layer of 
onions and then one of salt, and let them stand for 24 hours. 
Drain them, wash well, and cover with clear water for 4 hours. 
Then put them in a stone jar and fill with pure vinegar. Let 
them stand for 3 days ; then take out of the plain vinegar and 
cover with the following : Four quarts of strong vingear, 5 
pounds brown sugar, i ounce of allspice, i ounce of cloves, 
J/2 ounce of mace, i ounce of celery seed, ^ ounce of coriander 
seed, X 4 ounce of black pepper, y 2 ounce of mustard seed. Pound 
in a mortar until all ingredients are broken and mixed well. 
Boil and set away to cool. When lukewarm pour over the 
onions and tie a cloth over the jar. 

Cucumbers. 

Take 2 gallons of small ripe cucumbers and throw in brine 
that will bare an egg, allowing them to remain 3 days. Drain 
from the brine, and green with a lump of alum and enough 
water to cover them well; spread over the top large grape 
leaves, and when the cucumbers begin to turn yellow, lift them 
out with a strainer and throw into cold water until they lose 
their salty taste. Cover with plain vinegar for 3 days. Take 
a large stone jar and put in it a layer of cucumbers and one 
of onions, then a layer of spice and one of brown sugar, 
and repeat until the jar is full. Fill with vinegar, covering- 
well. Tie a cloth over the jar and set in a preserving kettle 



40 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

of cold water. As the water boils away, fill with hot water. 
The kettle must be on the back of the stove, where it will not 
boil, but simmer for 4 hours. Boiling ruins the pickles and 
makes them shrivel. The proportions for the vinegar, sugar 
and spice is the same as for onions. Use the onions that you 
prepared in the spring to fill the jars. 

Cucumbers Made in Molasses. 

Put cucumbers in brine for 3 days ; strain and soak in water 
for 2 hours. Put in a kettle and add the following: One-half 
pound of brown sugar, 3 pods of red pepper, i dessertspoon of 
pulverized alum and enough vinegar, weakened with water till 
the sharpness is removed, to cover them. Cover with grape 
leaves and scald well; avoid boiling. Put in a jar and let 
stand 2 days. Throw the old vinegar away and make a new 
covering for them of 3 pints of vinegar, y 2 teacup of celery 
seed, y> teacup of mustard seed, i teacup of molasses, I pound 
of brown sugar, i ounce of allspice, i ounce of cloves, y 2 ounce 
of black pepper, y 2 ounce of mace. Boil well, and when cold 
pour over the cucumbers. 

Good Proportions for Pickling. 

One-half ounce each of cloves, allspice, mace, black pepper, 
celery seed and ginger, i ounce of mustard seed, Y<\ pound of 
brown sugar and i quart of vinegar. Boil up once or twice and 
allow to cool, unless otherwise directed. When pickling plums 
or damsons, prick them with a needle three or four times to 
keep them from shrinking. 

Chow Chow. 

Half peck green tomatoes, i hard head cabbage, 8 onions, 
i peck small onions, 100 small cucumbers, y 2 pint grated horse 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 41 



radish, *4 pound mustard seed, y 2 ounce celery seed, y teacup 
of ground black pepper, y 2 teacup tumeric, y teacup cinnamon, 
2 pounds brown sugar, 3 quarts of vinegar, y 2 pound mustard, 
l /4 pint of olive oil. Cut the large onions, tomatoes and cab- 
bage in pieces. Mix well with small onions and cucumbers 
and pack down in salt overnight. In the morning drain off the 
brine and soak in vinegar 2 days. Drain again and mix the 
spice and new vinegar with the sugar; boil and pour over the 
pickle while hot. Repeat for three successive days, Jetting the 
vinegar only come to a boil each time. The third day mix 
the mustard and oil as for a dressing, and add it to the prepared 
vinegar. Do not add the horse radish until all the boiling has 
been done. Commence on Monday and finish on Saturday. 

Yellow Pickle. 

Prepare onions, cucumbers and cabbage as for plain pickle, 
and pour over them the following spiced vinegar : 2,y 2 gallons 
of vinegar, 7 pounds of brown sugar, y 2 box of mustard, I pound 
of mustard seed, I pound white ginger, y 2 pound white pepper, 
l /2 pound tumeric, 2 ounces of cloves, 2 nutmegs (grated), 2 
ounces of mace, 2 ounces of allspice, 3 ounces celery seed, i 
pound horse radish and 4 lemons (sliced). Boil all together 
and pour over the onions, cucumbers and cabbage. 

Yellow Cabbage Pickle. 

One peck of cabbage, quarter and put down with a layer of 
salt. Let it stand all night, and next day press, draining all 
the salt from it. Put the cabbage in the kettle and cover with 
vinegar and boil for an hour ; then add 2 dozen onions that have 
been in vinegar, i ounce tumeric, 2 ounces celery seed, I tea- 
spoon of cayenne pepper, 3 pounds brown sugar, and boil up 
once. When cold mix a box of mustard as for use and add to 
the pickle. 



42 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Mustard Pickle. 

Take all Kinds of made pickle and pour over it, while hot, 

I quart of vinegar, 2 teaspoons of tumeric, I tablespoon of mus- 
tard, i of sugar, i of salt, I of flour, i of cloves (ground), i 
teaspoon of mace, and a little red pepper. Boil all together and 
pour over the pickle. Good for use in two months. 

Mustard Chow Chow. 

Make a strong brine, and into it drop i cauliflower, divided 
in clusters, a gill of small onions, a gill of string beans, 3 green 
tomatoes, 3 large cucumbers (sliced crosswise), l / 2 pint of small 
gherkins and 2 long red peppers. Leave for three days, and 
then wash in cold water and pour fresh water over them ; let 
them stand ior 12 hours. Make a pickle of 2 quarts of vinegar, 
}/2 teaspoon each of celery seed, white mustard seed, horse rad- 
ish, cloves and mace, I teaspoon of tumeric, 2 dessertspoons of 
ground mustard, and i small teacup of brown sugar. Boil for 
a minute, put over the vegetables and simmer for 5 minutes. 

II not sweet enougii, add a little sugar. Take off the fire and 
put in a jar tor 24 hours. Drain off the vinegar and add 2 tea- 
spoons of Curry pow^der. Boil up once, and when lukewarm 
pour over the pickle. Seal the next day in small jars. 

Ripe Tomato Pickle. 

One peck of ripe tomatoes, sliced and put down in ]/ 2 pint 
of salt for 24 hours. Strain w r ell and add the following to them. 
Slice i quart onions, y 2 pound brown sugar, y 2 ounce of celery 
seed, y> pound mustard seed, *4 pound ground mustard. Make 
a layer of tomatoes and one of spice and sugar, and cover the 
whole with the best vinegar. Before adding the mustard mix 
it with a small amount of olive oil. Make as late in the fall 
as possible. 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 43 

Chopped Pickle. 

Sprinkle with salt }/ 2 gallon of green tomatoes. Let them 
stand for 2 hours ; then drain and add I gallon of chopped 
cabbage, I pint of green peppers (take out all of the seed), 
i quart of chopped onions, I tablespoon of ground cloves, I 
tablespoon of ground cinnamon, 2 tablespoons of celery seed, 
4 tablespoons of mustard seed, 2 pounds brown sugar and 2 
quarts of vinegar. Mix and boil for ^2 an hour. 

* 

Gherkins. 

Prepare the gherkins as you would cucumbers, and use the 
same amount of vinegar, spice and sugar. They can be mixed 
with the onions and cucumbers when they are put on for the 
final cooking, alternating with them. 

Plain Mangoes. 

Soak in brine 6 days small mangoes, then throw in clear 
water for 6 hours. Put the mangoes in a deep kettle, and add 
2 quarts of water and I pint of vinegar and a lump of alum the 
size of a walnut. Let them just come to a boil, and then drop 
in cold water until they are cold through and through. Cover 
with vinegar for 3 days, drain, wipe dry and stuff with equal 
proportions of chopped cabbage, sliced tomatoes and chopped 
onions, seasoned with all the different spice, brown sugar and 
vinegar. Use the same recipe for this filling that is used in 
chopped pickle, but use before it has been cooked. Fill the 
mangoes and sew up with a strong thread. Make a pickle 
vinegar as for cucumbers, and when boiling drop the mangoes 
in it ; stand an hour on the back of the stove, but don't let them 
boil, as it shrivels them. In a week boil the vinegar again and 
pour over the mangoes. Good in twelve months. 



44 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Oil Mangoes. 

Pour boiling water and salt over the mangoes and cover 
up until the next day; then cut a slit and remove the seed and 
put in new brine that will float an egg. Cover with cabbage 
leaves, turn a plate, and put a weight on them ; allow them 
to remain for 6 days. Drain off the salt and water, put in jars, 
and cover with vinegar for a week, then stuff with the follow- 
ing: Wash I pound of white ginger, pour boiling water over 
it and let it stand 24 hours ; slice thin and dry it. Add to this 
i pound of mustard seed, I pound horse radish (scraped and 
dried), I pound chopped onions, I ounce of mace, I ounce of 
grated nutmeg, 2 ounces of tumeric, I handful whole black 
pepper. Make into a paste with y+ pound of French Mustard 
and i large cup of olive oil. This will fill 40 mangoes. Make 
a good strong vinegar, as for any other pickle, and cover the 
mangoes with it. 

Peach Mangoes. 

Peel clingstone peaches and take out the stone with a sharp 
penknife. Mince fine 3 soft peaches, 2 slices of preserved 
ginger, about as much preserved orange peel as would come 
from T orange, i tablespoon of celery seed, i teaspoon of cori- 
ander seed, 6 canned strawberries and 12 pickled cherries. Stuff 
the peaches with the prepared mixture and sew with a fine 
thread. To every 2 pounds of fruit allow I pound of white 
sugar and y* pint of vinegar. Make a syrup, and while hot 
pour over the peaches. Repeat the boiling for 3 days, and the 
last day add i ounce each of cloves, allspice, mace, cinnamon 
and ginger. Tie the spice in a thin muslin bag to keep the 
syrup clear. Don't put the bag of spice in with the pickle, but 
throw it away, unless. the spice seem very strong, in which case 
it can be used again. 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 45 

Sweet Peach Pickle. 

reel 8 pounds of peacnes and throw them in cold water to 
keep from turning- dark. Take 4 pounds of white sugar and 
4 teacups of water and let come to a boil. Throw in the peaches 
and cook until a straw will stick in them easily. Take out and 
measure the syrup, and allow for every pint of syrup i pint of 
strong vinegar and i tablespoon each of whole cloves, allspice 
and mace. When the syrup has gotten thick, pour over the 
peaches and seal tight. Good in three months. Always use 
white sugar, as brown sugar will turn the pickle sour in nine 
cases out of ten. 

Small pears can be pickled in the same way. 

Fickied Damsons. 

Eight pounds of damsons, 3 pounds of sugar, y ounce each 
of cinnamon, allspice, cloves and mace, 3 pints of vinegar. 
Wash the fruit and stick each one with a needle. Place in a 
large bowl and boil the vinegar, sugar and spice, and pour over 
the damsons while hot. Cover with a cloth and set aside until 
the next day; repeat for 2 days, and then put the fruit on the 
hre with the vinegar and let them cook until they split. Strain 
and boil the juice to a thick syrup and pour on the pickle. Seal 
in air-tight jars and use as a winter pickle. The spice must be 
ground and tied in a muslin bag. 

Pickled Plurns. 

Use the large wild goose plum, pricking them 2 or 3 times 
with a needle, and pickle as you would damsons. 

Crab-Apple Pickle. 

When you preserve crab-apples, divide them while hot and 
spice half in the following way: To every 2 quarts of preserves 



46 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

add l /2 pint of sharp vinegar and i teaspoon of cloves, I tea- 
spoon of allspice and I teaspoon of cinnamon. Boil until a 
thick syrup forms, and seal in small jars, if not sour enough, 
add more vinegar that has been boiled, and pour on while hot. 
'ine spice must be pulverized. 

Spiced Currants. 

Pick and pull from the stems 4 pounds of currants. Take 
2}/2 pounds oi white sugar, i pint of vinegar and I tablespoon 
of cloves and 2 tablespoons of cinnamon, and boil for ]/?. an hour. 
Pour over the currants while steaming hot ; return to the fire 
and boil up once, and bottle for use. They are a delightful 
addition to game of any sort, and take the place of jelly. 

Spiced Cherries. 

Clip the stems half way down, and throw the cherries in 
salt and water for 12 hours. Drain and drop in plain vinegar 
for a day and night ; pour this off and make a spiced vinegar 
of 2 quarts of vinegar, $y 2 pounds brown sugar, i ounce mace, 
i l /2 ounces mustard seed, I ounce allspice, i ounce grain pepper 
and i ounce celery seed. Scald and pour over the cherries when 
half cold. Scald vinegar again the next morning and pour over 
cherries, and tie a cloth over the jar. Ready for use in a month. 

Watermelon Pickle. 

Four pounds of rind, cut and peeled ; boil in water until 
tender ; drain and wipe dry. Boil 3 pounds of brown sugar, 
3 pints of vinegar, y 2 ounce each of cloves and cinnamon (tied 
in a bag), for three mornings, and pour hot over the rind. Then 
seal for use. 

Sweet Canteleup Pickle. 

Take ripe canteleups and cut them as for eating. Place over 
the slices vinegar enough to cover them, and let stand 36 hours. 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 47 

Measure the vinegar, and to every pint allow I pound of brown 
sugar and l / 2 teacup of cloves and cinnamon mixed ; boil the 
vinegar for y 2 an hour, keeping it well skimmed ; then add the 
slices and boil until clear. Put the slices into a jar, and boil the 
syrup until it gets thick, and then pour over the melons. Pre- 
pare more vinegar and add to the pickle if the other is not 
enough to cover it. Must be kept for six months before using. 

Sweet Watermelon Rind Pickle. 

Peel the rinds with a sharp knife that will take off the green 
skin evenly. Trim off all the pink part, as it is too soft to make 
a firm, crisp pickle. Then cut the rind in strips about an inch 
square, and place them in an earthenware dish, sprinkle with 
salt, cover the dish, and let it stand all night. In the morning 
drain off all water that has formed and throw them into cold 
water; let stand, changing the water once or twice, until they 
lose their salty taste. Cook in a steamer until a broom splint 
will readily pierce them. When the rinds are tender, take out 
carefully and throw in a stone jar. Take cidar vinegar, and 
allow I pound of sugar to every pint of vinegar, and ^2 ounce 
of stick cinnamon broken in pieces, and ^ teaspoon each of 
whole cloves and mace. One quart of vinegar is enough to 
pickle an ordinary-sized melon. Boil the vinegar, sugar and 
spice together for y 2 hour, skimming off the froth, and while 
hot pour over the rinds. Press down by means of an earthen- 
ware plate and fasten the cover on. AYill be ready for use in 
two weeks. 

Pickled Eggs. 

Boil 6 eggs for 20 minutes, and throw them in cold water. 
Remove the shells and put in a jar with 6 freshly boiled beats 
that have been sliced. Scald enough vinegar to cover them, and 
add 2 teaspoons of celery seed, 4 pepper corns, i teaspoon of 



48 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

mustard seed and a few blades of mace. Fill the jar with the 
pickle and seal at once. They are nice to use in garnishing a 
dish of salad. 

Good Proportions for Preserving. 

i pound of damsons, Use i pound of brown sugar. 

i pound of pineapple, Use ^4 pound of white sugar. 

i pound of cherries, Use ^4 pound of white sugar. 

i pound 01 strawberries Use Y^ pound of white sugar. 

i pound of pears, Use % pound of white sugar. 

i pound of plums, Use I pound of brown sugar. 

i pound of quinces, Use i pound oi white sugar. 

i pound of blackberries, Use ]/? pouna of brown sugar 

i pound of peaches, Use fy pound of white sugar. 

i pound of crab-apples, ....... Use i pound of white sugar. 

i pound of apples, Use ^/\ pound of white sugar. 

i pound of gooseberries, Use i pound of white sugar. 

i pound of raspberries, Use ^j. pound of white sugar. 

Hints. 

If you want your preserves to be clear and bright, use only 
the best sugar ; and never allow a small proportion, as pre- 
serves will not keep well if the sugar is scant. In making jellies 
the sugar should be weighed very carefully, or they will not 
congeal. Jelly bags should be made of strong cotton or flannel, 
and dipped in hot water before the jelly is poured through them. 
Skim carefully both preserves and jellies while boiling, or they 
will not be clear. Use a w r ooden spoon to stir and skim them 
with, as tin is apt to discolor and impart an unpleasant flavor. 

General Directions. 

Wash and drain the fruit well, putting in the kettle a layer 
of fruit and one of sugar, unless otherwise directed. Slowly 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 49 

simmer on the back of the stove until all the sugar has dissolved, 
then pull to the fire where it can cook briskly, and stew until 
the fruit can be pierced with a straw. Strain from the juice 
and put in the jars while hot; boil the juice until it is a thick 
syrup, and pour over the fruit and seal. 

Strawberries Preserved Whole. 

I "^e ?4 pound of white sugar to every pound of berries. Put 
the sugar on to boil with enough water to prevent burning, 
and boil to a thick syrup. Skim well and drop in enough berries 
to cover the top of the kettle without crowding them. Boil 
for 20 minutes. Take them out carefully with a skimmer and 
put more in the syrup, until all have been cooked in the same 
way. Boil the syrup down to a rich, thick consistency, and 
strain through a sieve over the berries. This should keep for 
years. 

To Preserve Strawberries in Wine. 

Put 2 quarts of strawberries in a jar, and put between each 
layer one of sugar- -^ pint of white sugar to this quantity 
of berries, unless they are very sour. Pour over them enough 
Macleria wine to cover Avell, and seal. The jar should be full 
to ensure their keeping. 

Pears Preserved Whole. 

Take 3 pounds of sugar and I pint of water, and boil to a 
rich syrup. Peel 4 pounds of small pears and stick several 
cloves in each one, and drop them in the boiling syrup. Cook 
until a straw will easily pierce them. Lift out and pack in 
jars, filling with the syrup to the top, and seal. 

Sliced Pear Preserves. 

Peel, quarter and core large firm pears, parboiling them 
before the skins come off. To every pound of pears allow y<\ 



50 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

pound of sugar, 3 sliced lemons and a stick of cinnamon, and 
2 roots of green ginger. Boil the ginger until soft, then slice 
it and put it on with the pears and sugar. Boil to a thick syrup 
and throw in the lemon and cinnamon. When clear and thick 
pour into jars and seal while hot. 

Sliced Pippins. 

Take large pippins, pare and slice about ^4 of an inch thick ; 
boil 2 or 3 lemons and slice them over the apples. Allow sugar 
pound for pound, and y? gill of water. Dissolve the sugar in 
water and bring to a boil. Then add the fruit and boil until 
they are clear. Take out and spread on a flat dish to cool. Boil 
the syrup and pour over the slices when it is thick and clear. 

Apple Mange. 

Stew and mash well 3 pounds of tart apples, then add 3 
pounds of white sugar, and boil until it becomes thick enough 
to drop from the spoon. Add a few drops of lemon and turn 
into a mould. When ready to use, turn out, and slice as you 
would bread. 

Orange Conserves. 

Cut the peel in long, thin strips and stew in water until 
all bitterness has disappeared, changing the water several times. 
Drain and throw in cold water while you prepare a syrup. 
Allow i pound of sugar to every pound of peel before it has 
been cooked. Add I gill of water for each pound, and stew to 
a syrup, then throw in the peel and cook until thick. This 
makes a delicious seasoning for cake and cake sauce. 

Preserved Orange Peel. 

Weigh oranges whole and allow pound for pound, if it is 
a sour orange. Peel them very thin, and stew the rind in water 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 51 

until it is tender. Throw this water away, and squeeze the 
strained juice over the sugar, and let it come to a boil; put in 
the peel and boil 20 minutes. If you don't use the juice, water 
can be substituted, but it does not make it half as good as the 
juice. 

Peach Marmalade. 

Boil 12 pounds of soft peaches, cut from the stone, in their 
own juice until they can be mashed to a pulp. Run through a 
colander and add ]/2 pound of sugar for every pound of fruit. 
Boil until thick. AY hen the peaches are first put on the stove, 
put a teacup of water in the kettle to prevent burning. 

Sweetmeats. 

After the rind has been carved, or cut in blocks, cover with 
a strong brine and a layer of grape leaves, and set away for 4 
days. Soak in clear water, changing the water several times, 
until all taste of salt is gone. Take I gallon of water and add 
4 tablespoons of pulverized alum, and cover the rind with it, 
strewing over the top a handful of grape leaves. Simmer until 
they turn a good green, then soak out all the alum, changing 
the water several times to make them brittle. Boil the rind 
in a weak ginger tea, and throw in cold water again. Scrape 
and slice 5/2 pound of white ginger root, and boil in 3 waters 
until tender. Mix with the rind and add 3 sliced lemons. Pre- 
pare a syrup of I pound of sugar to every pound of rind, and 
mix with i pint of water, a stick of cinnamon and a few cloves. 
Cook until the rind is clear and lift out, leaving the juice to 
boil down until thick. 

Pineapple Preserves. 

Peel and core the fruit as for use; slice, weigh and pack 
down in sugar overnight. Next morning put the kettle on and 
bring to a boil, cooking slowly until the pineapple is soft enough 



52 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

to pierce with a straw. Cook the juice a little longer, and then 
seal in air-tight jars. 

Preserved Quinces. 

Take large, ripe quinces ; pare, core and quarter them. Lay 
in scalding water and boil until tender. Put parings, cores and 
seed in a kettle, and cover with the water in which the quinces 
have been boiled ; boil one hour. To every pint of liquor dis- 
solve i pound of white sugar ; boil well, and when the scum 
has ceased to rise drop in the fruit and boil until they begin 
to break. Keep the kettle well covered to preserve their color. 
\Yhen tender, strain out and put in jars; boil the juice once 
more and pour over the quinces. 

Quince Paste. 

Boil quinces that have been peele.d until they are soft ; strain 
through a fine strainer, and to I pound of pulp add I pound of 
sugar. Boil until it is so thick it will stand, but be very careful 
to stir continually or it will burn. Pour into moulds wet with 
cold water. When quite cold turn out and wrap in oiled paper, 
and pack away in small tin boxes. It will keep splendidly if 
treated in this way. Cut in strips and serve as a conserve. 

Preserved Grapes. 

Slip the grapes and boil the pulp until soft enough to strain 
through a fine strainer, extracting the seed. Then put the pulp 
and skins together and weigh ; allow ^4 pound of sugar to I 
pound of grapes. Boil until thick enough to jelly, and seal 
while hot. 

Crab-Apples. 

Wash and weigh the apples, allowing pound for pound. 
Prepare a syrup of water and sugar, and while this is cooking 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 53 

steam the fruit until tender. Drop in a few cloves, and cook 
the apples in the syrup until they break. Boil the juice down 
and add to the preserves. 

Blackberry Jam. 

After picking over the berries, put in a kettle for 20 minutes, 
stirring well, or they will burn quickly. Rub through a sieve 
fine enough to extract the seed. Measure, and for every quart 
of the mixture add \y 2 pints of sugar. Let them simmer 45 
minutes, and seal in small jelly glasses. 

To Jelly Fruit. 

Put the fruit in a stone jar; set this in a kettle of water 
and put on the fire. Let it boil slowly until all the juice has 
been extracted. Strain through a bag and measure the juice. 
Allow I pound of white sugar to every pint of juice. Let the 
juice boil for 20 minutes from the time it begins to bubble, and 
then throw in the sugar that has been heated. Boil up twice, 
and take off the fire at once. Strain through a thin cloth and 
fill the hot jelly glasses. The sugar can be heated by placing a 
fiat bread-pan on the inside of the oven, and strewing the sugar 
in, stirring to prevent burning. 

Grape Jelly. 

Cook the grapes as directed above, and at the same time 
prepare some tart apples in the same way. Measure and mix 
equal portions of grape juice and apple juice. Add I pound of 
sugar for every pint of juice, and make as any other jelly. Mix- 
ing the fruits makes a stiff jelly that cannot be obtained in any 
other w r ay. 

Peach Jelly. 

Fill a stone jar with soft peaches that have been peeled and 
stoned ; set in a kettle of water and boil to shreds. Strain and 



54 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

measure the juice, allowing I pint of liquor to ^J of a pound 
of sugar. Boil as other jelly and seal in small glasses. All other 
fruits are treated in the same way, allowing I pound of sugar to 
every pint of juice. 

Tutti Fruitti. 

To i quart of the very best alcohol put fy pound of sugar, 
and let it stand for I week before using; stir every day to 
dissolve the sugar. As each fruit comes in season, add them 
to the syrup in the following proportions : Peel and take the 
seed from enough oranges to make a pound ; drop them in the 
jar with y^ pound of sugar. Add pineapple, strawberries, rasp- 
berries, apricots, peaches and pears in the same proportions, 
and seal for winter use. None of the fruits must be cooked, and 
only the largest and best must be used. One quart of spirits 
will make 2 gallons when the last fruit has been added. This 
is a nice dessert when used with custard or frozen cream. 

Brandy Peaches. 

Use White Heath peaches and the best apple brandy when 
making brandy peaches. Put the peaches, a few at a time, into 
boiling soda water, just strong enough to loosen the skins. Let 
them remain a few minutes, and then wipe off the skin with a 
coarse towel, and drop into a bowl of cold water to keep from 
turning dark ; trim off any specks or bruised parts. Weigh 
the peaches and allow ^4 pound of white sugar to every pound 
of fruit, and y 2 pint of water to every pound of sugar. Boil the 
syrup until it is clear, and put in the peaches a few at a time, 
and boil until you can run a straw through them ; put on a 
large dish to drain, and boil the syrup until thick. Let it get 
perfectly cold, and add as much brandy as you have syrup. 
Place the peaches in jars and cover with the syrup. After 3 
weeks open them, and take out one-half of the syrup and fill 
up with pure brandy. They won't be ready for use under nine 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 55 

months. The syruo that comes from the peaches can be used 
to season sweet potatoes, mashed and baked, pouring a tea- 
cupful over the dish before sending it to the table. 

Brandy Pears. 

Make the same as you would peaches, using a little more 
brandy when the syrup is measured, and peeling them instead of 
dropping in the soda water. 

Brandy Peaches. 

Use the finest White Heath peaches, skinning them as above 
directed. Cook in a syrup until tender; fill a quart jar with as 
many as you can pack in without bruising, and between each 
layer put a cup of white sugar. After the jar has been filled, 
shake down, and cover with as much sugar as it will hold. Bury 
the peaches under the ground, with a foot of earth above them, 
and allow to stay for a year. The fruit will brandy in that 
time and be almost as good as those put up in the liquor. Be 
careful to seal jars perfectly air-tight. 



VEGETABLES. 



Good cooking tempts the appetite." 

Rabbi Ada. 



VEGETABLES. 



All vegetables are best if cooked as soon as they are gath- 
ered. They must be picked and washed and laid in a pan of 
cold water previous to cooking. Vegetables should be boiled 
until tender, and well drained before dressing for the table. 
A pinch of salt should be added to the water in which they 
are cooked, and always fill the pot with boiling water as it boils 
away. 

Stuffed Potatoes. 

Bake large, even potatoes as for eating, and when done cut 
off a lengthwise piece and scrape out all of the inside ; be careful 
not to break the skin. Mash the potatoes and work into it 
while hot i teaspoon each of butter, cream and grated cheese 
to every potato, and season with pepper and salt. Work enough 
milk in to cream it soft, and set on the fire to heat, stirring con- 
stantly. When scalding hot, add i egg, well beaten, for each 
potato, and allow it to steam 5 minutes. Fill the skins, heaping 
the mixture in them, and stick in each potato a thin strip of 
triend bacon. Bro\vn the potatoes over the top and serve on 
a flat dish. 

Potato Chips. 

Pare potatoes very thin with a vegetable cutter, and soak 
for y 2 an hour in salt water, drain and spread on a dry towel. 
Fry in boiling lard, in a corquette basket, sprinkle with salt, 
and use as a garnish or as a vegetable. If the fat is boiling 
when the slices are dropped in it, they will only take about a 
minute to fry, and will be crisp and delicious. 



60 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Four large teacups of hot mashed potatoes, 2 tablespoons of 
cream, i tablespoon of salt, I saltspoon of pepper and a dash 
of cayenne. Mix well, and when cold add the beaten yolks of 
2 eggs. Shape and dip in egg and then cracker dust. Fry in 
boiling lard and serve at once. Place the croquettes on ice for 
several hours before frying, and they won't drop to pieces when 
cooked. 

Moulded Potatoes. 

Six large potatoes, boiled and mashed, creamed with I egg, 
i tablespoon of butter and I teacup of milk, salt and pepper. 
Beat until creamy, and then put into small custard cups, brush 
over with the white of an egg and bake. Turn out on a shallow 
dish and dress with parsley. 

Potato Baskets. 

Peel and wash raw potatoes, dry on a clean cloth and slice 
as for chips. Line a frying basket with overlapping slices and 
immerse in boiling lard. Let them cool, and they will lift out 
without breaking. Use them to serve creamed potatoes in, or 
fried potato balls. Surround the basket with crisp lettuce and 
serve. 

Potato Cakes. 

Add i egg to every cup and a half of potatoes, and i table- 
spoon of butter. Beat well and mould in flat cakes. Fry and 
garnish the dish with thin strips of fried bacon. 

Potato Balls. 

Grate 5 large Irish potatoes, raw, and add 2 well-beaten eggs, 
i tablespoon of butter and a scant ^2 pint of milk, salt to taste, 
and enough flour to make a stiff batter, with 2 light teaspoons 
of baking powder sifted with it. Roll in balls and fry in boil- 
ing lard. 



VEGETABLES. 61 

Stuffed Potatoes with Meat. 

Wash and peel large Irish potatoes; scoop from the centre 
a good dessertspoon, and fill with force meat; dip in melted 
butter. Place in a baking dish and cook in a moderate overt 
for 30 minutes. Serve in the same dish in which they are 
cooked. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Peel and boil enough potatoes to line a baking dish ; slice 
them about l /\ an inch thick, and fill the dish with them, lapping 
each one. Make a gravy of I cup of milk and I tablespoon of 
butter, salt and pepper, and pour over the potatoes. Bake in a 
slow oven until the top is a rich brown, and then serve. 

Rice Croquettes. 

One cup of rice, soaked overnight, drain and add i 1 /* pints 
of milk ; steam until tender and stiff. Add 2 tablespoons of 
sugar, 2 tablespoons of butter, 4 well-beaten eggs, and salt to 
taste. Cook all together until well done, and let it get per- 
fectly cold. Make in long rolls and dip in cracker dust; fry 
a golden brown. Serve with any tart jelly as a sauce. 

Corn Fritters, 

One teacup of milk, 3 eggs, i pint of green corn cut from 
the cob, a pinch of salt, and as much flour as will form a batter. 
Beat the eggs separately, and add to the yolks the corn and 
salt; beat in the milk, and lastly add the flour. Beat well, and 
add the frothed whites. Drop by the spoonful into hot lard and 
fry a light brown. 

Corn Pudding. 

Grate or cut 12 ears of corn from the cob. Make a custard 
with I pint of milk, 2 eggs, I teaspoon of sugar and butter the 
size of an egg. Let this thicken as you would custard, and 
beat into the corn. Bake until the batter has set. 



62 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Ladies' Cabbage. 

Boil a white head of cabbage for 15 minutes, drain and let 
it cool. Chop fine and add 2 well-beaten eggs, I tablespoon of 
butter, 3 tablespoons of cream, pepper and salt. Stir all together 
and bake. 

Stuffed Cabbage. 

Boil a large head of cabbage for i hour. Lift from the 
water and carefully lay back the leaves until you have only 
the hard centre left, about as large as a teacup. Cut this out 
and chop fine. Add to it ]/ 2 cup of rice that has been soaked 
over night, 2 cooking spoons of grated ham, not potted ham, 
i egg (beaten), i cup of bread crumbs, and enough milk to 
moisten it. Mix well and put half of it in the centre. Fold 
back the first 4 leaves and sprinkle with the mixture. In be- 
tween each layer of leaves put one of the filling until the last 
leaf has been used. Tie a white cloth around the cabbage and 
boil for another hour. Unwrap carefully and put in dish, and 
pour over it a cream gravy made of butter, milk, and flour to 
thicken it. 

Stuffed Peppers. 

Six large bell peppers (green), i tablespoon of melted but- 
ter, y 2 pint of chopped chicken or veal, y\ teaspoon of black 
pepper, V 2 teaspoon of salt, i gill of cracker dust, i egg, 2 tea- 
spoons of celery seed, i small onion (minced). Cut the top 
from the peppers and pull the stem out, drop in cold water 
for 6 hours, and then parboil for 15 minutes. Mix all ingre- 
dients and stuff the hulls; sprinkle cracker dust over the top 
and dot each one with a piece of butter. Stand up in a pan 
and bake until the tops turn brown. Serve with the following 
gravy: iV 2 cups of stock, iJ/ cups of stewed tomatoes, y 2 tea- 
spoon of sugar, pepper and salt to taste. Boil until it becomes 
thick enough not to run. 



VEGETABLES. 63 

Browned Sweet Potatoes. 

Boil sweet potatoes and slice them while hot; lay in a 
shallow pan and pour over them a gravy made of i cup of 
brown sugar, i tablespoon of melted butter and y* cup water. 
Stew the syrup for a few minutes and then pour on potatoes ; 
slip the pan in the oven and allow the potatoes to candy over 
the top. After they have been put in the dish for serving, pour 
the rest of the gravy on them. 

Stuffed Onions. 

Get large Bermuda onions and peel them. Parboil through 
2 waters and drain. Take out the inside and chop with it a 
sprig of parsley and a teaspoon of salt ; add i teaspoon of, 
grated ham, i egg and y 2 teacup of crumbs. Mix into a paste 
and stuff the onion. Slip in the oven and brown over the top. 
This quantity will only fill i large onion. The parboiling makes 
them so delicate that the flavor is delicious. 

Macaroni and Oysters. 

Boil the macaroni until tender; then put in a baking dish 
a layer of oysters and one of macaroni, and strew the top with 
grated cheese. Continue to fill the dish in the same way, leav- 
ing a layer of cheese on. top. Bake a light brown. 

Spinach and Eggs. 

Spinach should be steamed and not boiled, as so many think. 
Wash and pick the spinach over and place in a colander over 
a pot of boiling Avater ; let it steam until tender. Poach 6 eggs 
until they set, but are not hard. \Vhen the spinach is ready 
for the table, put the eggs on top, and pour 2 tablespoons of 
drawn butter on them. 



64 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Creamed Beans. 

Soak i pint of navy beans overnight. In the morning put 
them in salt water and boil until the beans drop to pieces. Run 
through a colander. An hour before dinner take a tablespoon 
of melted butter and I tablespoon of flour, add 3/2 pint of milk, 
and cook until thick. Stir into the beans, and add 2 well-beaten 
eggs. Pour the mixture in a greased baking dish, cover with 
bread crumbs, and bake a nice rich brown.. Season with salt 
and pepper before baking. 



PIES. 

No soil upon earth is so dear to our eyes 
As the soil we first stirred in terrestrial pies." 

Holmes. 



PIES. 

Pastry. 

One quart of flour, ^4 pound of butter and lard mixed, i 
teaspoon of salt, and enough ice water to make the dough hold 
together. Chop the shortening into the flour, using a knife 
instead of your hands. Mix lightly with the water and roll 
out in small pieces, keeping the rest as cold as possible. The 
best pastry is that which is worked as little in the making as 
will make it hold together, and cut off just enough to fill one 
pan, rolling each piece separately. It will then be light and 
flaky. 

Chess Cake Pie. 

Beat i pound of white sugar into the yelks of 2 eggs, cream 
Y'2 pound of white sugar into ^ pound of butter. Add to the 
two, after they have been well mixed, % pound of chopped 
citron and the juice of 2 lemons, or more if necessary. Bake 
in one pie crust and put a meringue over the top. 

Love Puffs. 

Make a rich puff paste and roll very thin ; cut the size of 
a saucer, sprinkle with pulverized sugar and cinnamon, fold 
over and bake. Sift sugar over them when they come from 
the oven. 

Cocoanut Cream Pie. 

One quart of milk, 4 eggs (yelks), 4 tablespoons of sugar, 
i tablespoon of corn starch, i tablespoon of Sauer's extract of 
vanilla, y 2 of a grated cocoanut. Boil the milk and make a rich 



68 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

custard. Beat in the cocoanut when the custard is half cold 
and bake in one crust. Make a meringue of the whites and 
spread over the top. 

Cocoanut Pie. 

Rub to a cream y 2 pound of sugar and *4 pound of butter ; 
add the whites of 7 eggs (well beaten) and i grated cocoanut. 
Season with wine, Sauer's lemon or vanilla extract. Bake in 
one crust. 

Cocoanut Pie Baked in a Double Crust. 

One grated cocoanut, whites of 5 eggs (well beaten), y\ 
pound of sugar, i cup of milk, i tablespoon of butter, i table- 
spoon of Sauer's vanilla. Mix well and bake in a double crust. 
Let the top crust be formed of crossed strips, showing the 



filling in between. 



Cocoanut Gems. 



Six eggs (whites and yelks beaten separately), i grated 
cocoanut, i pound of sugar, Sauer's vanilla extract to taste. 
Beat the yelks and add the sugar, beat the whites and add the 
cocoanut, and mix together. Line patty pans with pastry and 
fill with the cocoanut. Drop a spoon of meringue in each one 
and brown. 

Lemon Pie. 

Six eggs, 2 cups of sugar, i cup of milk, 2 tablespoons of 
corn starch, 3 lemons, rind and juice. Beat the yelks and add 
the sugar, milk, corn starch and lemon. Set in a pan of boiling 
water and let it thicken over the fire ; fill pie pans and bake 
brown. Make a meringue of 6 whites beaten to a froth and 6 
tablespoons of sugar added one at a time ; season with Sauer's 
vanilla and spread over the pies. Let them dry out in a slow- 
oven for 20 minutes, with the door open. The meringue will 
not fall if cooked in this w r ay. 



PIES. 69 

Lemon Pie. 

Five eggs (beaten separately), ^ pound of butter, 4 tea- 
cups sugar, 6 lemons, I teacup of milk. Boil until thick ; fill 
plates and bake. This is a very sour filling, but a good one, 
and well worth trying. 

White Lemon Pie. 

One teacup of XXX sugar, i tablespoon of butter, 2 eggs, 
2 lemons (juice and rind), i cup of boiling milk, i tablespoon 
of corn starch dissolved in 2 tablespoons of cold water. Cream 
butter and sugar and pour the boiling milk over the eggs, and 
then over the creamed mixture. When cold add the lemon and 
bake in a crust or small gem pan. 

Sweet Potato Pie. 

One pound of potatoes, boiled and mashed, which equals 
2 pounds before cooking; J4 pound of sugar, 6 eggs and 2 
lemons. Beat well and bake in one crust. 

Rich Sweet Potato Pie. 

Two pounds of potatoes before cooking; boil and mash free 
from lumps ; ^ pound of butter, 3 eggs, i pound of sugar, i 
wineglass of wine and i lemon. Bake until brown. 

Raisin Pie. 

Three pounds of seeded raisins, i l / 2 pounds of brown sugar, 
l /2 pint of water. Cook all together until the raisins are soft ; 
let cool, and then add I teaspoon of cinnamon, i teaspoon of 
allspice, y 2 teaspoon of cloves, i nutmeg and i pint of sherry 
wine. Bake in a double crust and serve hot. Slice the raisins 
before cooking them. 



70 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Caramel Pie. 

One cup of preserved damsons pressed through a colander, 
Jicup of sugar, y 2 cup of butter, i cup of milk and I tablespoon 
of Sauer's vanilla extract. Cream butter and sugar and stir in 
the beaten yelks ; mix milk and damsons and add to the other 
mixture ; beat the whites and vanilla, and mix all together. 
Bake at once in one crust. 

Fritters. 

One pint of sweet milk, I pint of flour, 2 eggs and a pinch 
of salt. Boil the milk and beat it into the flour. After this 
cools add the eggs, well beaten, and stir the batter hard for a 
moment. Fry in boiling lard and serve with boiled molasses. 

Pancakes. 

One pint of flour, i teaspoon of baking powder, 3 eggs and 
enough milk to make a thin batter. Beat the eggs separately, 
and mix all ingredients together. Fry. as you would cakes, and 
roll up when they are done. Sprinkle pulverized sugar over 
them and eat with maple syrup. 

Cream Puffs. 

Put one-half pint of hot water and two-thirds of a cup of but- 
ter over the fire. When it boils stir in 1^2 cups of flour and beat 
until smooth. Remove from the fire, and when it is cool beat 
into it 5 eggs that have been whipped to a froth. Drop in hot 
greased tins, a tablespoonful at a time ; brush over the top 
with the white of an egg, and bake in a very quick oven. When 
done, cut off the top and fill with the following filling : i pint 
of milk, i cup of flour, 2 eggs, i cup of sugar, i tablespoon of 
butter and 2 tablespoons of Sauer's vanilla extract. Put half 
of the milk on to boil. Reserve from the other half 2 table- 
spoons to mix with the eggs, and into the rest, while cold, mix 



PIES. 71 

the flour until smooth. When the other milk is hot, pour on 
the flour and cook until thicker than boiled custard. Beat well 
the eggs and sugar, butter, milk and seasoning, and add to the 
other milk; stir briskly until so thick it will not run from the 
puffs, and when cold fill the centres. Replace the tops, sprinkle 
with sugar, and serve. 

Apple Dumplings. 

A lake a rich puff paste and roll out in pieces 5 inches square. 
Put a large tablespoonful of stewed apples on each one, and 
pinch up the 4 corners, giving them a twist to make them stick. 
Bake a light brown and serve with hard sauce. 

Sauce. Cream i pound of pulverized sugar and y pound 
of butter to a stiff paste, adding, as you work it down, i teacup 
of sherry. Beat for a few minutes and set aside to harden. 

Drop Cakes. 

One quart of flour, i quart of boiling water, 2 tablespoons 
of butter, 6 eggs, i tablespoon of sugar, i teaspoon of salt. 
Melt butter in the water, and when it has come to a boil, site 
the flour in and stir briskly until it is smooth ; cool and turn 
into a bowl ; beat in i egg at a time until all have been used. 
Drop in boiling lard and fry a golden brown. 

Sauce. 2 cups of light molasses, i cup brown sugar, i table- 
spoon of butter, 4 sticks of preserved ginger (cut in small 
pieces), and 3 strips of preserved orange peel. Cook until 
thick and rich, and serve hot with the cakes. 

Raisin Puffs. 

One-fourth cup of butter, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 cups of 
flour, i cup of milk, }/ 2 cup chopped raisins, 3 heaping teaspoons 
baking powder. Steam in cups for V 2 ?.n hour. Eat with cream 
or sauce. This makes 6 puffs. 



72 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Mince-Meat. 

One-half pound tender beef, boiled until rare done. Chop 
fine and add ^2 pound the best kidney suet. To this add I 
pound currants, I pound raisins, 2 pounds Albemarle pippins (or 
any other good apple, chopped), J^ pound citron (cut fine), 3 
pounds white sugar. When this has been well mixed, pour 
over it i)4 pints of brandy, J/ pint sherry and a teacup of good 
cider, i teaspoon salt. Cinnamon, cloves and allspice (ground) 
about i teaspoon of each, or add what your taste requires. Mix 
thoroughly and put up in air-tight jars. Use between crusts 
and bake a good rich brown. Serve hot. 



PUDDINGS. 

' First be sure you are right, then go ahead." 

David Crockett. 



PUDDINGS. 

Poor Man's Pudding. 

One and one-half cups of chopped suet, i l / 2 cups chopped 
raisins, y 2 cup molasses, I cup of milk (sour is best), 3 cups 
of fine bread crumbs, i teaspoon each of cloves and cinnamon, 
l /2 nutmeg, I teaspoon of salt and i teaspoon of soda. Place the 
dry ingredients together, and put the molasses on to heat. Pour 
over the dry mixture first the molasses, in which the soda has 
been dissolved, and then the milk. Beat the whole well to- 
gether, turn in a well-buttered tin, and put in a steamer over 
a kettle of boiling water ; cover tightly and steam for 3 hours. 
Serve with a lemon or wine sauce. Flour the fruit before 
using it. 

Lemon Sauce. i l / 2 tablespoons of butter, i l / 2 cups of white 
sugar, i even tablespoon of Hour, rind and juice of 2 lemons. 
Cream butter, sugar and flour well together ; add i cup of 
sweet milk. Have i l / 2 cups of boiling water in the sauce-pan 
with the grated rind. Pour in the flour, butter and sugar, and 
boil until thick. Add lemon juice just before serving. 

Huckleberry Pudding. 

One pound and 3 ounces of sugar, i pound and 2 ounces of 

flour, 6 ounces of butter, 6 eggs, 2 teaspoons of baking powder, 

i cup of milk. Cream just as for cake, and add i l / 2 quarts of 

berries that have been dredged well with flour. Season with 

Sauer's vanilla, and bake in patty pans. Use either a rich wine 



or lemon sauce. 



7f TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Blackberry Pudding. 

One pound of butter, ^J pound of sugar, 6 eggs, i quart of 
blackberries, ^4 pound of flour, I teaspoon of powder, and 
Sauers lemon extract to flavor. Cream as for cake ; flour the 
fruit well with extra flour, and bake in small moulds. Serve 
with lemon sauce, either hot or cold. 

Soda Pudding. 

Four eggs, 4 cups of flour, 2 cups of sugar, i cup of butter, 
i cup of milk, 2 teaspoons of baking powder, Sauer's lemon 
extract to flavor. Make a cake batter and bake in large mould. 
Serve with tne following sauce : 

Sauce. i pound of white sugar, l / 2 pint of wine, y\. pound 
of butter, and 2 tablespoons of whole cloves. Boil until thick 
and serve with the hot cake. 

Country Pudding. 

One cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, 3 eggs, 3 cups of flour, 
i YZ teaspoons of baking powder, i cup of milk, i teaspoon of 
Sauer's vanilla. Cream butter and sugar, add eggs well beaten, 
then milk and flour with the powder sifted in it. Season ana 
bake in 3 layers. Make 2 days before using, and when ready 
to serve pour over each layer a cup of sherry to moisten it. 
Strew over the top the following, that has been mixed: y* 
pound of blanched almonds (cut in half), j4 pound of citron 
(sliced), i pouna of raisins, and a little candied orange peel. 
Just before serving pour over the whole a thick custard sea- 
soned with vanilla. Dot a tablespoon of whipped cream over 
the top and serve. 

Apple Pudding. 

Slice enough apples to fill a large mould one-third full. 
Make a batter of i cup of sugar, 3 eggs, i cup of milk, 2^ 



PUDDINGS. 77 

cups of flour and enough fresh lemon to season well. Pour 
the batter over fruit and bake. Turn on a round dish and eat 
with a liquid or hard sauce. 

Sponge Pudding to Eat with Wine Sauce. 

Beat the yelks of 4 eggs with 2 cups of sugar; stir in I cup 
of flour ; add the whites of 4 eggs ; stir in another cup of flour, 
together with 2 teaspoons of powder. When well mixed, add 
y^ cup of boiling water, stirring it in slowly, then add the juice 
of i lemon. Bake in shallow pans as you would sponge cakes 
Sauer's vanilla is a great addition. If the mixing is carefully 
followed this cake is delicious. 

Sponge Pudding. 

One quart of milk, ^J pound of butter, l / pound of sugar, 
2 teaspoons of Sauer's vanilla, 6 eggs. Boil the milk and rub 
the butter, flour and sugar together; stir in the hot milk until 
it is a smooth batter. When it has gotten cold, add the beaten 
yelks, then the whites and vanilla. Pour in a shallow pudding 
dish and set it in a pan of water. Turn a pie-plate over the 
top and bake i l / 2 hours. Serve at once with cream sauce. 

Cream Sauce. y 2 cup butter, i cup of pulverized sugar, y$ 
cup of cream, i cup of sherry wine and a tablespoon of Sauer'e 
vanilla extract. Beat the butter to a cream, and beat in care- 
fully the sugar. When light and frothy add the seasoning. 
Whip until creamy. Place in a pan of hot water and stir until 
thick. Set on ice for 10 hours. 

Plum Pudding. 

One quart of seeded raisins, i quart of currants, i quart 
of bread crumbs, i quart of white sugar, i quart of broken eggs, 

1 quart of citron and almonds mixed, I quart of chopped suet, 

2 gills of French brandy, i nutmeg, i teaspoon of ground cloves, 



78 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

l /2 teaspoon of cinnamon. Boil for 6 hours in a pudding mould 
or bag. 

Sauce. y^ pound of butter, i pound of white sugar, i pint 
of wine, whole spice to taste. Stew until the consistency of 
thick cream. 

Sweet Potato Pudding. 

One pound of potatoes, boiled and mashed ; y^ pound of 
butter. Cream the two together and add the yelks of 10 eggs 
and i pound of sugar. Mix all together and beat the whites 
to a stiff froth, taking out enough to form a meringue. Lastly, 
beat in the whites and the juice of i lemon. Bake in a pudding 
mould. When done, spread over the top y 2 glass of currant 
jelly and cover with the meringue; slip in oven and brown. 
'A little wine improves the pudding very much. 

Grated Pudding. 

One quart of grated sweet potatoes (raw), i pint of milk, 
y 2 pound of butter, y 2 pound of brown sugar, 4 eggs, i tea- 
spoon of allspice, 2 teaspoons of cinnamon. Mix and bake for 
i hour. Set the pudding on a plate when it is first put in the 
oven, and turn a plate over the top until the centre has baked ; 
then remove the top and allow it to brown. 

Sauce. i pound of brown sugar, butter size of an egg, i 
teacup of water, i cup of wine. Cook butter sugar and water 
until thick, add wine, and serve hot. 

Boiled Custard. 

One quart of fresh milk, 4 eggs, 4 tablespoons of sugar, 
seasoning to taste. Heat the milk to boiling point. Beat the 
eggs separately, and add to the yelks the sugar. When the 
milk is boiling, pour it over the eggs and sugar. Whip the 
whites and add them at once. Return to the fire and stir until 
it has thickened. When cold add the seasoning. 



PUDDINGS. 



79 



Baked Custard. 

One quart of new milk, 4 tablespoons of sugar, i tablespoon 
of Sauer's vanilla, 4 eggs. Beat the eggs separately, and then 
mix them ; add sugar a spoonful at a time, and pour over them 
the milk and seasoning. Put in a dish for baking, and set in 
a pan of cold water. Bake in a moderate oven. Grate nutmeg 
over the top, and serve with whipped cream. 

Boiled Cocoanut Custard. 

Heat i pint of milk and stir slowly into it the yelks of 6 
eggs and i pound of grated cocoanut, alternating them, with 
5 ounces of sugar. Put in a vessel of boiling water and slowly 
simmer, stirring all the time until it is smooth and thick. Take 
off and pour into jelly glasses; set on ice until cold. Pile 
whipped cream that has been seasoned and sweetened, or use 
the whites instead of the cream. 

Custard Maccaroons. 

Make a custard of i*/2 quarts of milk, 9 eggs and 8 table- 
spoons of sugar, Sauer's vanilla extract to taste. The custard 
must be very thick. Place in a dish 8 dozen maccaroons, and 
pour over them i cup of sherry. When the cakes have taken 
up the wine, pour the custard over them and set on ice. Serve 
with whipped cream, dotted over with conserve cherries. 

Spanish Cream. 

One quart of milk, 5 eggs, y\ of a box of gelatine, 12 table- 
spoons of sugar, 2 tablespoons of Sauer's vanilla, i gill of cold 
wine, i gill of warm wine. Put gelatine to soak in the cold wine, 
and just before using it pour over the warm wine and strain 
it into the milk. Beat the yelks light, and pour over them the 
cold milk; strain in the gelatine, and set on the fire to boil. 



8o TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Beat whites, add sugar and vanilla, and when the milk boils, 
beat them in. Keep on the fire just long enough to heat 
through, stirring all the time. Fill a melon mould and set on 
ice to harden. Turn out next day and surround the dish with 
whipped cream. 

Meringues. 

Whites of 8 eggs, i pound of sugar. Beat to a stiff froth and 
season with Sauer's vanilla. Drop on buttered paper or in a 
buttered dripping-pan, and bake in a slow oven. They will 
puff and bake a light brown. Lift from the pan and mash in 
the bottom with a spoon ; fill the centre with ice-cream, place 
2 together and tie with a ribbon. 

Snow Pudding. 

Cover Y* box of gelatine with I teacup of cold water, and 
when softened, pour over it 3 gills of boiling water. Add I 
cup of sugar, the juice of I lemon, y 2 teacup of wine. Wher 
cold add the well-beaten whites of 3 eggs. Beat until it begins 
to thicken, then pour in a mould to harden. Turn on a flat dish, 
and pour around it boiled custard made with the yelks of 3 eggs, 
Y*. pint of milk and Y* teacup of sugar. 

Rice Caramel Pudding. 

One cup of rice, I quart and 2 gills of milk, I teaspoon of 
salt, 2 eggs, i stick of cinnamon, Y* CU P f sugar. Wash rice 
and soak in water for 2 hours ; drain and put in a boiler with 
milk and cinnamon. Cook for i hour, or until rice is thoroughly 
done. Put the sugar in the frying-pan and stir until it browns 
and has become a liquid. Pour quickly into a 3-pint mould 
that has been warmed, and turn the mould around until the 
sides are coated with the caramel. Beat the eggs well, and 
add them to the rice ; pack the pudding in the mould, cover 



PUDDINGS. 81 

with a pan, place in a pan of water, and slip in the oven to 
bake. Bake for J< hour, and stand aside to cool. Turn on a 
flat dish and serve with custard seasoned with Sauer's vanilla. 

Cream Pudding. 

Make a cake batter of i cup of butter, i cup of milk, 4 eggs, 
2 cups of sugar, 3 cups of flour, i teaspoon of powder, i table- 
spoon of Sauer's lemon extract. Bake in shallow pans and cover 
with the following when the cake is cold : Put i quart of milk 
on to boil ; beat the yelks of 5 eggs, with 4 tablespoons of sugar, 
dissolve 2 tablespoons of granulated gelatine in i tablespoon of 
milk, and add it to the hot milk; put i teacup of flour and i 
teaspoon of butter together, and pour a little of the hot milk on 
it to cream well ; add this to the eggs, and pour the boiling 
milk over them. Cook until thick enough not to run from the 
spoon, and when it begins to congeal, spread over the cakes. 
Ice with 3 tablespoons of chocolate, 6 tablespoons of cream, 
y* ounce of butter and i teaspoon of vanilla. Simmer a few 
minutes and cover the cream filling. 

Corn Starch Pudding. 

One pint of milk, 2 light tablespoons of corn starch, i scant 
y-z cup of sugar, whites of 3 eggs, I teaspoon of Sauer's vanilla 
extract. Beat the eggs to a stiff froth, dissolve corn starch in 
a little of the milk, and stir the sugar in the rest. When the 
milk begins to boil, add the corn starch and sugar, and beat in 
rapidly the frothed whites. Let it stay on the fire long enough 
to cook the eggs a little. Take off. and divide in half. Melt 
2 ounces of chocolate and beat it in one-half. To the other add 
2 tablespoons of fresh cocoanut, and put first the white part 
into a dish and then the dark. Set away to harden and serve 
with cream. 



82 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Strawberry Short Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, y^ cup of butter, i cup of milk, 3 cups 
of flour, i teaspoon of powder, 5 eggs (leaving out 2 whites for 
the icing), i teaspoon of Sauer's vanilla. Make a batter and 
bake in square, flat tins. When cold, slice enough strawberries 
to cover the top of each layer, and pour over them a thin icing 
and a good dusting of powdered sugar. Put the cakes together 
as any other cake, and cover the top with whipped cream. Place 
whole berries all over it, and set in a cool place until ready for 
use. Use the cake as soon after making as possible, for the 
berries make it too wet if they stand long. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

One small cup of butter, i large cup of powdered sugar, 4 
eggs (beaten separately), i large cup of grated chocolate, ^ 
cup of milk, iy 2 cups of flour, ^ teaspoon of soda in the milk. 
Bake in ring-shaped pan. 

Sauce. - - Four sticks Maillard's triple vanilla chocolate, 
broken in pieces ; add i cup water and i cup of milk, i teaspoon 
butter, i cup sugar. Cook for 5 minutes and pour over pudding. 
This pudding is also good later with whipped cream. 



CAKES. 



Wouldst thou both eat thy cake and have it ?" 

Herbert. 



CAKES. 

General Rules for Mixing. 

It is well in cake-making to beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream ; then beat the eggs separately and mix them together, 
adding them to the butter and sugar; after this has been well 
mixed, add the milk and seasoning, and, lastly, sift in the flour 
and powders. A wooden cake tray or eathenware vessel is best 
for mixing cake and beating eggs. All fruits should be thor- 
oughly cleansed and dried before flouring. Cut raisins in half, 
shred cocoanuts, slice almonds and citron, and then they are 
ready for use. A very good way to tell when cake has baked 
enough is to run a small broom splint through it.. If the dough 
does not stick to it the cake has finished baking and can come 
out of the oven, unless it is a large cake, when it should stay in 
awhile longer to thoroughly soak. Always set the pans on 
small pie-pans to prevent burning, and place a bread-pan filled 
with water over them to keep from baking on top before they 
rise. In baking layer cakes you can tell when to take them 
out of the stove by placing the pan close to your ear. If they 
sing they are not done, and must be baked until they stop. 

SMALL CAKES. 

Old-Fashioned Jumbles. 

One and one-half pounds of sugar, ^ pound of butter, 2 
eggs, i lemon, juice and rind, and enough flour to roll a thin 
dough. Break off pieces the size of an egg, and roll with your 
hands in long strips. Tie in knots or wind in a circle and 
bake. 



86 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

German Pretzels, or Ringlets. 

Three-fourths of a pound of flour, */2 pound of butter, J/ 
pound of sugar, I egg. Cream butter, sugar and egg ; season 
with Sauer's vanilla or lemon extract; add the flour and set 
the dough in a cool place to harden. Cut with a knife into 
small pieces, and roll as you would jumbles, forming little rings, 
and bake in a moderate oven. 

Tea Cakes. 

Two quarts of flour, i pound of sugar, J/ pound of butter 
and lard mixed, 4 eggs, 2 teaspoons of baking powder, */2 teacup 
of milk, i nutmeg or cinnamon. Mix and roll about J4 of an 
inch thick ; cut in shapes and bake. 

Queen Cake. 



Two and one-half pounds of flour, i pound of butter, i pound 
of sugar, 5 eggs, i teaspoon of seasoning, i wineglass of brandy, 
i teaspoon of cinnamon. Mix as for tea cakes, and cut with a 
round cutter. While the cakes are hot, stick on each one a 
blanched almond. 

Cinnamon Cake. 

Two pounds of flour, ^4 pound of butter, 5 eggs, i pound 
of sugar, 2 tablespoons of cinnamon. Use the yelks of 3 eggs 
and 2 whole ones. Roll and cut round. Beat the 3 whites and 
add pulverized sugar until it is thick ; season with cinnamon, 
and while the cakes are hot spread on with a feather. 

Sauer's Vanilla Drop Cakes. 

Beat y 2 cup of butter, i l / 2 cups of powdered sugar and the 
yelks of 4 eggs together; then add i cup of milk, i^ cups of 
sifted flour, and i teaspoon of baking powder; mix and season 
with Sauer's vanilla extract. Drop by teaspoons into well- 



CAKES. 87 

greased pans, and when done, ice with white icing. Batter 
must not be thin enough to run. 

Cocoanut Cakes. 

Two cups of sugar, i cup of butter, 2 eggs, >^ grated cocoa- 
nut, and flour enough to roll a thin batter. Cut out and bake. 
The dough should have as little flour in it as possible to enable 
you to roll them thin. 

Marguerites. 

Whip to a stiff froth the whites of 3 eggs; add slowly iy 2 
cups of pulverized sugar and I teaspoon of Sauer's vanilla. Add 
i cup chopped English walnuts or pecans, and beat well. Drop 
a large spoonful on the top of saltines, or any crisp unsweetened 
cracker, and slip them in the stove to brown. Serve hot or 
cold with salad, or as a dessert. 

Marguerites. 

One pound of sugar, i pound of butter. Cream. Beat 6 
eggs and sift i T /2 pounds of flour in them; add the butter and 
sugar and I teaspoon of mixed spices. Season with Sauer's 
rose extract. Roll y 2 inch thick, cut and bake at once. When 
cold, spread the tops with jelly or marmalade, and cover with 
a meringue. Slip in the oven to brown. 

Ginger Snaps. 

One cup of "butter, i cup of molasses, I cup of brown sugar, 
3 heaping tablespoons of ground ginger, flour to make a thin 
dough. Roll as thin as possible, cut and bake in a quick oven. 

Molasses Cookies. 

One cup of butter, 2 cups of molasses, i teaspoon of cloves, 
i tablespoon of ginger, flour to make a stiff dough. Mould in 
your hands in small cakes and bake in a steady oven. 



88 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Old-Fashion Ginger Cakes. 

Three pounds of flour, i pound of brown sugar, ^4 pound of 
butter or lard, i quart of dark molasses, i l / 2 tablespoons ground 
cloves, 2 l /2 tablespoons of allspice, 3^ ounces of cinnamon, 3 
ounces ginger, a pinch of salt. Mix well together, roll thin and 
cut in shapes. Bake in a quick oven. 

Rich Drop Cakes. 

'One pound of flour, i pound of powdered sugar, ^4 pound 
of butter, y 2 pound of currants, 4 eggs, juice of i lemon and 
grated peel of y 2 lemon, y 2 teaspoon of soda wet with hot 
water. Dridge currants and put them in last of all. Drop the 
mixture by spoonfuls on buttered paper, taking care they are 
not close enough to touch in baking. 

Peanut Cookies. 

Put i pound of sugar and 2 pounds of flour together, and 
add a little cinnamon ; sift well. Beat 4 eggs and pour on them 
24 of a pound of melted butter. Knead the whole together, 
and roll as thin as possible. Turn a flat bread-pan buttom up 
and spread the batter on it. Check it off in squares and press 
chopped peanuts over it. Slip in the stove and brown. The 
secret of this cake is to have it rolled as thin as a wafer. 

Cookies. 

Quarter pound of butter, *4 pound of sugar, l / 2 pound of 
flour, 2 eggs, i teaspoon of Sauer's vanilla, }4 pound of almonds 
and raisins mixed. Make in balls the size of a walnut, scratch 
the top until it is rough, and bake in a quick oven. 

Currant Cookies. 

Half pound of sugar, 4 eggs, 4 ounces of currants (well 
washed and dried), 2 ounces of citron ( cut in strips), 2 lemons 



CAKES. 89 

(juice and rind), ^ pound of flour, y 2 teaspoon of powder. 
Beat sugar and eggs for 20 minutes, and add the other ingre- 
dients. Drop from the spoon in small cones and bake brown. 

Sauer's Vanilla Cookies. 

Half pound of flour that has been sifted 2 or 3 times ; J^ 
pound of sugar, 3 eggs, ^ teaspoon of Sauer's vanilla. Sugar 
and eggs must be beaten hard for 20 minutes, always in the 
same direction; then add the flour and vanilla, and stir for 
another 20 minutes. Drop in small cakes and bake. The longer 
they are beaten the better they are. 

Ring Timbles. 

One pound of flour, 10 ounces of sugar, 10 ounces of butter, 
2 e gg s > i lemon, juice and rind. Cream the eggs and sugar; 
add butter and flour, and set to harden in a cool place. Form 
in little rings and bake. 

Christmas Cookies. 

Three-fourths of a pound of flour, 3 eggs, */2 pound of butter, 
y-2. pound of sugar, y pound of almonds. Reserve about one- 
third of the almonds for icing. Chop the butter up in the 
flour, add eggs and sugar, and the chopped almonds; work 
all into a smooth dough, and cut in squares with a jagging 
iron. Mix the rest of the almonds with some cinnamon and 
sugar, and sift over each cake. Bake to a very light brown. 

Dough-Nuts. 

One cup of sugar, i cup of milk, l / 4 cup of butter, 2 eggs, 
2 teaspoons of baking powder, 5 cups of flour, cinnamon or 
nutmeg to taste. Mix as you do cup cake, roll and cut with 
a dough-nut cutter. Fry in boiling lard, and while hot sprinkle 
with powdered sugar and cinnamon. 



90 TEGTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Crullers. 

Two cups of sugar, 2 tablespoons of butter, 2 cups of cream 
or milk, 4 eggs, 6 cups of flour (sifted), with 4 teaspoons of 
powders, 2 teaspoons of salt. Drop from the spoon into the 
boiling lard, and lift out when they are a golden brown. Dust 
with sugar while hot. This makes a very light cake, and is im- 
proved by adding a little cinnamon to the batter. 

Crullers. 

Four eggs, 3 cups rf sugar, butter the size of an egg, i tea- 
spoon of soda, i tablespoon of vinegar, i cup of milk, I teaspoon 
of salt, grated rind of I orange, 2 teaspoons of Sauer's vanilla, 
i teaspoon of cinnamon. Dissolve soda in the vinegar, and mix 
other ingredients with enough flour to form a soft dough. 
Divide in three parts and roll one part at a time. Cut in cakes 
and fry in boiling lard. Sift powdered sugar over them while 
hot. 

Vanilla Snaps. 

One cup of butter, *^ cup of sugar, 2 eggs, 3 teaspoons of 
baking powder, 2 large teaspoons of milk and 3 teaspoons of 
Sauer's vanilla. Flour to make a stiff dough. Mix as for tea 
cakes, roll thin, and sprinkle with sugar, and bake. 

Christmas Stars. 

One pound of powdered sugar, i pound of almonds, whites 
of 6 eggs, i teaspoon of cinnamon, the grated rind of i lemon. 
Wash the almonds and wi e them dry. Grind in an almond 
mill (do not pound, as it makes them too much of a paste). 
Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add sugar, lemon rind and 
cinnamon; stir for 15 minutes. Take out I cupful, and into 
the rest stir the almonds. Flour the board well and turn the 



CAKES. 91 

mixture on it, roll out lightly and cut in stars. Put a small 
quantity of the plain mixture on each one, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. 

Kisses. 

One pound of pulverized sugar, whites of 6 eggs, I teaspoon 
of cream tartar, I teaspoon Sauer's vanilla, ^ pound nuts. Beat 
Y-2. an hour. Break the eggs and beat the sugar in, without 
frothing the eggs first. When the eggs and sugar have been 
beaten for 15 minutes, add the cream of tartar and beat for 
another 15 minutes. Add nuts pecans are best and drop 
a tablespoonful on greased tins, and bake in a moderate oven. 



Creole Kissss. 

To the white of every egg add 2 tablespoons of pulverized 
sugar, and to every 5 whites allow I pint of chopped nuts. 
Vanilla to taste. Don't beat the eggs, but drop the whites in 
a bowl and add the sugar. Beat until thick, add the nuts and 
seasoning, and bake on greased tins. 



LARGE CAKES. 

Cup Cake. 

Four cups of sugar, 6 cups of flour, 2 cups of butter, 2 cups 
of milk, 6 eggs, 3 teaspoons of powder, 2 teaspoons of Sauer's 
vanilla or lemon extract. Bake in 2 large moulds, cups or layers. 

Marble Cake. 

Make above batter and divide in half. To one half add i 
tablespoon each of cloves, cinnamon, allspice and nutmeg. Put 
first a layer of dark and then one of light, until all the batter 
has been used. Bake in a large mould. 



92 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Rich Marble Cake. 

Part First. Yelks of 7 eggs, I cup of butter, i cup of mo- 
lasses, 2 cups of brown sugar, 4 cups of flour, I cup of milk, 
i teaspoon of soda, 2 teaspoons of cream of tartar, 2 tablespoons 
of cinnamon, i tablespoon of cloves, i teaspoon of allspice, i 
nutmeg. 

Part Second. Whites of 7 eggs, i cup of butter, 2 cups of 
sugar, 3 cups of flour, J/ cup of milk, J/ teaspoon of soda, i 
teaspoon of cream of tartar, i teaspoon Sauer's lemon extract. 
Put in a layer of dark and one of light until all has been used. 
Bake in a slow oven to prevent burning. 

White Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, 2 cups of flour, i cup of butter, whites 
of 6 eggs, i teaspoon of baking powder, i lemon or i teaspoon 
of Sauer's extract. Cream butter and flour. Beat eggs until 
stiff and add sugar. Then mix all together and bake in a sheet. 
Ice with the following : i cup of sugar, i teaspoon of vinegar 
and l /4 cup of water; boil until it ropes. Beat spoon by spoon 
into the beaten white of i egg. Flavor with vanilla and ice 
the cake. 

Dover Cake. 

Three-fourths of a pound of butter, 2 pounds of sugar, 2 
pounds of flour, 6 eggs, i pint of milk, I nutmeg, I wineglass 
of brandy, i teaspoon of soda dissolved in 2 teaspoons of vine- 
gar, i pound of currants, i pound of raisins. Mix and bake in 
a large mould. 

Cocoanut Cake. 

One and ne-half cups of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of butter, 
2 l / 2 cups of flour, one-third of a cup of milk, whites of 4 eggs, 



CAKES. 93 

i teaspoon of baking powder, I teaspoon of Sauer's vanilla. 
Bake in layers and ice with cocoanut icing. 

Cocoanut Icing. Boil I cup of white sugar and l /^ of a cup 
of water, with J/ teaspoon of vinegar in it, until it ropes. Beat 
it in the well-beaten white of I egg. Season with Sauer's 
vanilla and add % pound of grated cocoanut. 

Coccanut-Chocolate Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, i cups of butter, I cup of milk, 5 eggs, 
3 cups of flour, i teaspoon of powder, i teaspoon of Sauer's 
vanilla. Bake in 4 layers and spread the following between 
them : 

Icing. Beat whites of 3 eggs until light, add I pound of 
pulverized sugar and i grated cocoanut. Melt ^ of a pound 
of Baker's chocolate, and beat rapidly in the icing. Spread at 
once between the cakes, as it hardens very quickly. 

Chocolate Cake. 

One egg, beaten together; add ^ cup of milk, i cup of 
sugar, y 2 cake of grated chocolate. Cook until it becomes hot 
through, and set aside to cool. Make a batter of 3 eggs; beat 
yelks light, and add I cup of sugar, l / 2 cup of milk, y 2 cup of 
butter; to the beaten whites add 2 cups of flour, 2 teaspoons 
of powder, and when well mixed pour in the chocolate mixture. 
Bake in layers and- ice with a white icing. 

Caramel Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, i cup of butter, 5 eggs, i cup of milk, 
3 cups of flour, i teaspoon of powder, 2 teaspoons of Sauer's 
vanilla. Bake in layers and use the following as a filling: 

Icing. Two pounds of brown sugar, 2 ounces of butter, 2 
teacups of milk. Boil until thick and add 3 teaspoons of Sauer's 



94 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

vanilla extract. Beat until it begins to harden. Then pour in 
i cup of chopped black walnuts and spread on the layers. 

Lemon Cake. 

Make the usual batter for layer cake and put it together with 
3 e &g s (beaten light), 2 cups of sugar, butter size of an egg, 
juice of 3 lemons. Set the stew-pan in water, and cook until 
thick enough not to run from the cake. Cool and ice. 

Walnut Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, i cup of butter, 5 eggs, I cup of milk, 
3 cups of flour, i teaspoon of powder, i l / 2 teaspoons of Sauer's 
lemon extract. Divide the batter in three parts, flavor two of 
them with lemon, and to the third add I teaspoon of cinnamon, 
\Y-2 teaspoons each of cloves and allspice, J/ nutmeg. Bake in 
3 layers and put between them the following : 

Icing. Five lemons, i l /2 pounds of pulverized sugar, 2 
pounds English walnuts. Squeeze lemons and mix the sugar 
in them ; chop the nuts, taking out enough to cover the top, 
and beat the whole quickly together. If the icing is too thin 
to stay on the cake, add a little more sugar. When the icing 
begins to set, place the whole nuts over the top and set away 
to harden. 

Date Cake. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, y 2 cup of butter, 2 large cups 
of flour, i cup of milk, 5 eggs (leaving out 2 whites), 2 teaspoons 
of powder, i teaspoon of Sauer's almond extract, and l /2 pound 
of dates, chopped. Bake in sheets and ice. 

Date Icing. White of 2 eggs, 2 cups of sugar, y 2 cup of 
water, i teaspoon of vinegar, J^ pound of dates, I teaspoon each 
of Sauer's lemon and vanilla extract. Make a boiled icing, and 
add the dates that have been sliced. Beat until the icing begins 
to harden. 



CAKES. 95 

Silver and Gold Cake. 

White .Layers.- -Whites of 6 eggs, \y 2 cups of sugar, y 2 cup 
of butter, y 2 cup 01 milk, z l / 2 cups of flour, i teaspoon of powder, 
i teaspoon of Sauer's almond extract. 

Gold Layers.- -Yelks of 6 eggs, y 2 cup of butter, i cup of 
milk, \y 2 cups of sugar, z l / 2 cups rlour, i teaspoon of powder, 
i teaspoon of Sauer's orange extract. 

Put together with a layer of white and one of yellow. 

Icing.- -Yelks of 4 eggs, beaten light, with y 2 pound of white 
sugar and J4 pound of butter; cream well and cook on a slow 
fire until thick. Then add the whites of 4 eggs (well beaten) 
and i teaspoon of Sauer's orange extract. Cook long enough 
to thicken, and when done, beat into it 2 tablespoons each of 
chopped almonds and walnuts. 

Fig Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, y 2 cup of butter, ^4 CU P of milk, 2^4 
cups of flour, whites of 6 eggs, i teaspoon of powder, i teaspoon 
of vanilla (Sauer's). 

Filling. y^ of a pound of chopped figs, Y^ pound of seeded 
raisins, 34 pound of chopped almonds, y 2 cup of icing. Mix 
well and put the layers together with it. 

Sponge Cake. 

Twelve eggs, their weight in sugar and half their weight 
in flour, Sauer's lemon extract to season. Mix as directed above, 
and bake in a large mould. 

Sponge Cake. 

Fifteen eggs, \y 2 pounds of sugar, i pound of flour, juice and 
rind of i large lemon, 2 tablespoons of vinegar. Beat the yelks 



96 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

and whites separately; beat the yelks and sugar, then add the 
whites, and lastly stir in the flour that has been sifted 3 times. 
Mix well and add the lemon and vinegar. Bake in shallow pans. 

Almond Cake. 

Twelve eggs, I pound of flour, i pound of sugar, I pound 
of butter, i pound of almonds (blanched), y 2 pound of citron 
(sliced), i wineglass of brandy. Mix and bake as pound cake. 

White Fruit Cake. 

One pound of white sugar, i pound of flour, y 2 pound of 
butter, whites of 12 eggs, 2 pounds of citron (cut thin), I large 
cocoanut (grated), i oound of blanched almonds, 3 teaspoons 
of baking powder. Cream butter and sugar, add eggs and flour, 
and then mix in one-third of the % fruit. Mix in the rest as you 
put the batter in the mould, making a layer of batter and one 
of fruit. Bake in a slow oven. This will keep one month. 

Black Fruit Cake. 

One pound of flour, i pound of sugar, iy 2 pounds of butter, 
I 3 e g" s > 4 pounds of raisins, \y 2 pounds of currants, I pound 
of blanched almonds, y 2 pound of citron, i tumbler of brandy, 
^2 tumbler of wine, rind of I orange, i teacup of Porto Rico 
molasses, i teaspoon each of cloves, mace and allspice (all 
ground). Mix the batter as for any other cake, flour the fruit 
and add to the dough, and beat in the seasoning. Bake 4 hours. 

Light Fruit Cake. 

Twelve eggs, i pound of flour, i pound of sugar, i pound 
of butter, i pound of currants, \y 2 pounds raisins, y 2 pound of 
shelled almonds, 5 slices of preserved pineapple, y 2 tumbler of 
brandy, and spice to taste. Mix and bake as other fruit cake. 
Sink the pan in wood ashes when it goes into the stove, and 
it will prevent burning. 



CAKES. 



97 



Large Fig Cake. 

'I wo cups of sugar, i small cup of butter, i cup of milk, 
cups of flour, whites of 8 eggs, 2 teaspoons of powder, i pound 
of figs (cnoppeaj, 2 teaspoons of Sauer's lemon extract. Mix 
the batter and put a layer of it in a large mould, and then a layer 
of figs ; continue to use in this way until all the batter is used. 
Bake in a slow oven. Dredge the top with powdered sugar. 

Lemon Citron Cake. 

One pounds of flour, i pound of sugar, $4 pound of butter, 
7 e gg s > juice and rind of 2 lemons, 2 cups of sliced citron, i tea- 
spoon of powder. Beat the eggs separately, adding the whites 
after the batter has been mixed. Bake in a large mould. 

Rolled Jelly Cake. 

One cup of sugar, 2 eggs, I tablespoon of butter, ij^ cups 
of flour, two-thirds of a cup of milk, 2 teaspoons of powder, 

1 teaspoon of Sauer's vanilla. Bake in a very shallow pan, and 
while hot spread over the top a coating of tart jelly; roll up 
quickly and tie a cloth around it. When the cake has gotten 
cold, slice about ^ an inch thick, and cover each slice with a 
water icing. 

Anoth - nice filling that will take the place of the jelly is to 
beat i egg with I teaspoon of corn starch, i tablespoon of flour, 

2 tablespoons of sugar, and i teaspoon of Sauer's vanilla. Stir 
into it y 2 pint of milk, and boil until it is stiff. Spread as you 
would the jelly, and roll the cake. 

Water Icing. Pour enough boiling water over i pound of 
pulverized sugar to make a thick icing, and any flavoring de- 
sired, and spread over the cake. This icing is quickly made, 
and hardens at o.ice. 



98 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Raisin Cake. 

One cup of butter, 2 cups of brown sugar, 3 cups of flour, 
i cup of milk, 5 eggs, I teaspoon of powder, ^4 of a cup of wine, 
i pound of raisins, i teaspoon each of cloves, mace, allspice 
and cinnamon. Flour the raisins well and bake in a large pan. 

Raisin and Citron Cake. 

Half pound of butter, ^4 pound of sugar, i pound of flour, 
5 eggs, ]/2. pound of raisins, J^ pound of citron, i teaspoon of 
powder, Sauer's lemon extract to taste. Bake in a large square 
mould. 

German Wine Cake. 

Half pound of butter, ^ pound of sugar, 4 eggs (beaten 
separately), rind of i^ lemons, *4 pound of currants, y^ pound 
of raisins, i scant pound of flour, i teaspoon of powder. Cream 
the butter and beat it well with the sugar and eggs, add the 
flour and powders, and lastly the beaten whites. Flour the 
fruit from the pound of flour, and add it after the batter has 
been mixed. Bake in a mould. 

German Bread Cake. 

Twelve eggs, y 2 pound of sugar, y pound of buckwheat, 
y-2 teaspoon of cloves, */ teaspoon of cinnamon, i teacup of 
citron and almonds mixed, i teaspoon of Sauer's lemon extract. 
Beat yelks with sugar and spice for 15 minutes; add buck- 
wheat, lemon and fruit, and then the whites. Bake as a sponge 
cake. 

Risen Ginger Bread. 

Six cups of flour, 4 cups of molasses, 2 cups of brown sugar, 
1^2 cups of butter, 6 eggs, 2 teaspoons of powder, ginger to 
taste, i cup of milk. Mix and bake in a large mould, or better, 
in 2 small moulds. 



CAKES. 99 

Ginger Bread. 

One cup of butter, i cup of molasses, I cup of brown sugar, 
I cup of sour milk (or buttermilk), 3 eggs, 3^/2 cups of flour, 
\]/2 tablespoons of ginger, 2 teaspoons of cinnamon, I teaspoon 
of soda dissolved in i tablespoon of hot milk. Beat the butter 
and sugar, and add the eggs ; beat the dissolved soda into the 
molasses, and add to the other ingredients ; mix next the milk, 
flour and spices. Bake in a large mould, cups or shallow pans, 
and serve with sauce. 

Ginger Cup Cake. 

Five eggs, iV 2 cups of molasses, i l /2 cups of brown sugar, 
iJ/2 cups of milk, iy 2 cups of butter, 4 cups of flour, 3 teaspoons 
of powder, 2 tablespoons of ginger, 2 teaspoons of cinnamon. 
Bake in small cups or pans, and serve while hot with a rich 
wine sauce. 

Cherry Cake. 

Four eggs, y pound of sugar, l / pound of butter, 6 ounces 
of flour, *4 pound of preserved cherries after they have been 
well drained, i teaspoon of powder. Bake in shallow tins in a 
quick oven. Ice with any icing preferred, and cut in squares. 

Almond Cake. 

Five eggs, y 2 pound of sugar, scant y 2 pound of flour, y 
pound of butter, y 2 pound of almonds, I orange. Cream flour 
and butter; beat yelks and sugar; beat whites to a froth, and 
mix with the almonds that have been shaved; mix all well 
together. Bake m layers and frost with a boiled icing. Cut 
in squares 2 inches across, and make a daisy on the top of each 
one, with almonds for the petals, and some of the icing colored 
yellow for the centre, and a citron stem. 



308013 



ioo TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

A Quick Cake. 

Whites of 4 eggs, I cup of sugar, y 2 cup of milk, y 2 cup of 
butter, y 2 cup of corn starch, \y 2 cups of flour, 2 teaspoons of 
powder, i teaspoons of Sauer's almond extract. This cake must 
be baked in a very quick oven, or it will be a failure. Put in 
an earthenware bowl the whites of the eggs, without beating 
them; add the sugar, the butter that has been softened, the 
sifted flour, corn starch and powders, milk and flavoring. After 
all ingredients are in, begin beating, and continue until the bat- 
ter is smooth and creamy. Bake in a shallow pan and ice with 
anything you like. This cake is one of the best made, and one 
of the easiest if the directions are followed. 

Good Cake to Eat with Sauce. 

Two eggs, 2 large tablespoons of butter, 2 cups of sugar. 
Cream this together, and add 2 small cups of milk, 3 teaspoons 
of powder and 4 cups of flour. Flavor with Sauer's lemon ex- 
tract. Bake in a large mould, and eat while hot with a sauce. 
This cake is not good after it gets cold. 

Orange Icing. 

Two cups of sugar, iV 2 cups of water. Cook until it strings, 
and pour on the white of I egg that has been well beaten. Beat 
until it begins to harden, and flavor with Sauer's orange, lemon 
or vanilla extract. This icing takes a long time to cook, and 
has to be beaten as mu~h as an hour before it hardens. 

Cooked Orange Filling. 

One pound of sugar, y\ pound of butter, 4 oranges, 2 lemons, 
6 eggs. Beat the butter and sugar, add the juice and rind of 
fruit, ana when it comes to a boil pour over the well-beaten 
eggs. Cook until thick and set away to cool. Put between 
layers and ice the top with white icing. 



CAKES. 101 

Orange Icing. 

Squeeze an orange, and add as much pulverized sugar as 
the juice will take up. Spread on the layers. 

Chocolate Icing. 

Two ounces of chocolate, i cup of sugar, i egg, I cup of 
milk. Cream egg and sugar, pour the milk and chocolate with 
it, and set on fire to thicken. Beat until it hardens, and flavor 
with Sauer's vaniiia extract. 

Chocolate Cream Icing. 

One pint of milk, 4 ounces of chocolate, 4 ounces of sugar, 
4 ounces of almonds, which have been blanched and pounded. 
Boil until thick and cool before using. Season with Sauer's 
vanilla, and don't add almonds until the icing comes off the fire. 

Cinnamon Icing. 

Whites of 2 eggs (stiffly beaten), 24 teaspoons of pulverized 
sugar, i teaspoon 01 vanilla. Mix and pour in it 2 ounces of 
melted chocolate. Beat hard and ice the cake. 

Caramel Icing. 

One cup of milk, i ounce of butter, i pound of brown sugar, 
i teaspoon of Sauer's vanilla. Boil until it ropes, and beat until 
thick. You can use this icing plain, or add cocoanut, which 
must be dessicated. Nuts make a nice change. 



CREAM, JELLIES, ETC. 



Enough is as good as a feast." 

Hey<wood. 



CREAM, JELLIES, ETC. 

Freezing. 

Use ice that has been pounded fine, filling every crevice as 
you pack the freezer. If possible, use the best rock salt, that 
has been crushed to a powder, and pack with a layer of ice 3 
inches deep and a layer of salt I inch thick. Fill the freezer to 
the top in this way, and turn the crank rapidly until it refuses 
to move. Lift out the dasher and scrape all cream from the 
sides ; work the cream well into the can with a large spoon, and 
cover again. Pour off all the water and add more salt and ice, 
packing well until the ice has been heaped over the cream. 
Throw a blanket over the freezer and set in a cool place to ripen 
for 4 hours. 

Pure Vanilla Cream. 

Two and one-half quarts of pure cream, i]/2 tablespoons of 
Sauer's vanilla, ?4 pound of sugar. Mix and freeze, allowing 
it to harden before using. 

Strawberry Cream. 

Two quarts of berries (mashed with a spoon until every 
berry has been broken), I quart of cream, 3 cups of sugar (more 
if the berries are very sour), I pint of milk, and the juice of 
}/2 a lemon. Mix and freeze. 

Raspberry Cream. 

Make the same as strawberry cream, straining the berries 
after they have been mashed to extract the seed. 



io6 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Peach Cream. 

Four quarts of soft peaches (peeled and mashed), iJ/ quarts 
of cream, 3^ cups of sugar, I pint of milk. Freeze and pack 
away to ripen. 

Peach Cream. 

Two quarts of peaches, I quart of milk, i quart of cream, i 
pound of sugar, 2 eggs. Make a custard of the milk, eggs and 
sugar. When it is cold, add the cream and the peaches that 
have been put through a presser. Freeze and let ripen for 3 
hours. 

Apple Cream. 

Take 4 quarts of stewed apples, i pint of milk, i quart of 
cream, 4 lemons, 2 tablespoons of vanilla, 4 good cups of sugar, 
and mix them all together. Freeze 4 hours before using. The 
sugar varies according to the apple used, and it may need more. 

Banana Cream. 

One quart of cream, J/ pint of milk, 3 large cups of sugar, 
2 lemons, 15 bananas. Mash the fruit and add the sugar and 
lemon juice. Stand for 15 minutes, and then add the milk and 
cream. Freeze as other creams. 

Pineapple Cream. 

One can grated pineapple (or i quart of the ripe fruit), i 
quart of milk, i pint of cream, 2 cups of sugar (unless you use 
the fresh fruit, and then it requires more), i lemon, y 2 box of 
gelatine soaked in J/ pint of milk. Beat the cream and fruit 
together and add the lemon. Heat the milk and dissolve the 
y 2 pint of milk and gelatine in it; add the sugar and bring to 
a boiling point. Cool and pour over the fruit and cream. Freeze. 



CREAM, JELLIES, ETC. 107 

Bisque. 

Make y 2 gallon of rich boiled custard, allowing 6 eggs to 
each quart of milk, and 4 tablespoons of sugar. Add, before 
taking from the fire, 2 pounds of pounded almond macaroons 
and y 2 pound of sliced almonds. When cold, freeze. 

Caramel Cream. 

Make a custard of 2 quarts of milk and 8 eggs. While this 
is boiling, put in a iiat frying-pan I pound of brown sugar and 
y 2 teacup of water; let it smoke until it begins to burn, and 
add it to the custard. The custard and sugar should both be 
boiling hot when put together, or the sugar will form into a 
hard lump and will be difficult to melt. When cold, add I table- 
spoon of Sauer's vanilla and I quart of cream. Freeze, and 
when the dasher comes out, fill the hollow it leaves with 
whipped cream that has been sweetened and seasoned with 
vanilla. Put the caramel over the top and pack away to harden. 

Chocolate Ice-Cream. 

Half gallon of milk, 8 eggs (whites and yelks), \y\ pounds 
of sugar, 4 ounces of chocolate, Sauer's vanilla to taste. Put 
the milk and chocolate on to boil ; beat the eggs and sugar, and 
pour the boiling milk over them. Thicken as for custard, and 
when cold, add the vanilla. Fill the centre with whipped cream 
and pack away. 

Lemon Ice-Cream. 

Dissolve 2 pounds of sugar in 2 quarts of milk ; add 2 table- 
spoons of Sauer's vanilla extract and partially freeze. When 
the cream begins to get hard, open the freezer and beat in it the 
juice of 12 lemons; finish freezing and allow it to harden. 



io8 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Sultana Roll. 

One quart of milk, i egg, I quart of cream, I tablespoon 
flour, i cup of sugar, l / 2 cup raisins, soaked over night in enough 
brandy to cover them, i teaspoon of Sauer's vanilla, i teaspoon 
of Sauer's almond extract. Put the milk on to boil in a farina 
boiler with the flour, beaten egg and the sugar. Cook for 20 
minutes. Cool and add the cream, keeping out half to whip. 
Flavor and color with vegetable green. PYeeze. When nearly 
frozen pack down in small cans, mixing in the raisins as you 
pack it, and fill the centres with whipped cream. Pack in ice 
to harden. Make a sauce of i cup of sugar, y 2 cup of water, 
and boil until it is a thick syrup. Add 6 tablespoons of claret, 
and pour over the cream when served. Use I pound Royal 
baking powder cans to pack the frozen cream in. 

Chestnut Cream. 

Two quarts of cream, i l / 2 cups of sugar, i cup of water, 
2 oranges, l / 2 pint of best wine, 3 dozen French chestnuts. Shell 
and blanch Chestnuts, cover with boiling water and cook until 
you can marh them. Drain and pound in a mortar, and run 
through a potato presser. Boil the sugar, grated orange rind 
and water for 15 minutes, then add the chestnuts. Cook for 
5 minutes. Cool and add orange, v/ine and cream. Freeze. 

Frozen Pudding. 

Two cups of sugar, i pint of milk, i quart of cream, 2 table- 
spoons of gelatine, 2 eggs, y 2 pound of conserved cherries, 
]/ 2 cup of flour, l / 2 pint of wine, 4 tablespoons of rum. Put 
the milk on to boil, and pour it over the eggs, sugar, flour and 
gelatine that has been dissolved in i cup of cream. Thicken 
and let cool. Add the cream and liquor in which the cherries 



CREAM, JELLIES, ETC. 109 

have been soaked overnight, and sliced. Freeze and serve with 
a rich boiled custard filled with cherries. 

Maple Cream. 

Make a rich custard and freeze. When served, pour over 
each plate I tablespoon of thick hot syrup, filled with chopped 
English walnuts. Heat maple syrup and stew until it is thick 
and ropes from the spoon. Add Sauer's vanilla and nuts before 



using. 



Chocolate Sauce for Cream. 



Six ounces of chocolate (grated), \y 2 cups of brown sugar, 
i cup of milk, i teaspoon of Sauer's vanilla extract. Cook until 
thick and serve hot with vanilla cream. 

Mint Sa uca for Vanilla Cream. 

This sauce is one found in a stray paper, but try it and see 
if you don't want to use it again many times. Leave J4 cup 
of mint leaves in I cup of cold water for an hour; then heat 
and strain. Dissolve in it I cup of sugar and let it come to a 
boil. Color a faint green, and cook until it forms a soft ball 
when dropped in cold water. Pour hot over each saucer of 
cream, and it will candy on the cold mixture. 

Lemon Ice. 

One tablespoon of pulverized gelatine, 6 lemons, I pint of 
sugar, -y 2 cups of water, 2 dozen raisins. Shave the lemons, 
and put the peel on to bcil in the 3^ cups of water. Drop the 
raisin", in with it. When it has gotten hot through, add the 
suo-ar and boil until thick. Strain. When it is cold, add the 
lemons and the gelatine, whic.i has been dissolved in 1/2 cup 
of hot water. When the ice has half Trozen, open the can and 
add i quart of cream. Freeze and set away to ripen. 



i io TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Orange Ice. 

Two tablespoons of gelatine, I quart of cold water, 12 
oranges, 2 cups of sugar, i cup of boiling water. Dissolve gela- 
tine in hot water. Boil sugar and water to a syrup and add 
the gelatine. When cold add the orange juice. Freeze and fill 
the centre with whipped cream, seasoned and flavored with 
Sauer's vanilla extract. 

Gelatine Ice. 

Let i ounce of gelatine stand I hour in i pint of cold water. 
Add 3 pints of boiling water, \y 2 pounds of sugar, i T / 2 pints of 
wine, juice of 3 lemons and rind of i. Mix well and freeze 
before it begins to congeal. 

Ambrosia. 

Peel and take the seed from 12 oranges ; cut them in dice 
and sprinkle with sugar. Slice 6 bananas and fill a bowl with 
layers of orange, bananas and cocoanut, sprinkling each layer 
with sugar. Serve cold. 

Blanc-Mange. 

One ounce of gelatine and 3 pints of milk. Soak the gela- 
tine in half of the milk, and put the rest on to boil ; add T /2 cup 
of sugar and pour over the gelatine. Return to the fire and 
let heat through ; strain and pour in moulds, wet with water. 
Season with Sauer's vanilla or bitter almond extract. 

Custard Blanc-Mange. 

Make a custard of i quart of milk, i teacup of sugar and 
4 eggs. Stir in while boiling y 2 box of gelatine that has been 
soaked in i teacup of milk. Season with Sauer's vanilla, and 
add y 2 pound of shredded almonds. Pour in moulds and serve 
with whipped cream. 



CREAM, JELLIES, ETC. in 

German Blanc-Mange. 

Five eggs, l / 4 pound of sugar, juice of \y 2 lemons and rind 
of one, y-2 ounce of gelatine soaked in i cup of water. Stir the 
yelks in the sugar for y 2 an hour, add the lemon juice and the 
well-dissolved gelatine, lastly the beaten whites, and pour at 
once into a pudding mould that has been wet. The mould must 
first be oiled with a little almond oil, and turned over to allow 
all the oil to run out, then wet and fill with the pudding. When 
stiff turn out and use with whipped cream or custard. 

Snow Flake. 

One cocoanut, grated and soaked in just enough cream to 
cover it ; soak for an hour. Sweeten and flavor i pint of cream 
and whip to a stiff froth. Beat the whites of 3 eggs and mix 
with the cocoanut and cream. It must be used at once, as it 
falls from standing. 

Apple Snow. 

Pare and core 12 large apples, put them in cold water and 
stew until soft enough to mash through a sieve, sweeten to taste, 
and flavor with Sauer's vanilla. Beat the whites of 6 eggs to 
a heavy froth, and add % pound of powdered sugar. Beat the 
two together until light, and cover the top with whipped cream. 

Jelly. 

One box of Chalmer's gelatine, i pint of cold water. Put 
together and let soak for an hour. Pour on this 3 pints of boil- 
ing water, and stir until all has dissolved. Add i l /2 pints of 
cooking wine and 1^/4 pounds of sugar. Squeeze into it the 
juice of 2 lemons and T / 2 an orange. Strain and set away to 
harden. 



112 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Tutti Frutti Jelly. 

Add to the above, before it congeals, y 2 pound of red con- 
served cherries, I pound of broken English walnuts, y 2 pound 
of blanched almonds, 3 or 4 pieces of candied orange peel. 
When this hardens, and you are ready to serve, put in the dish 
with a layer of split white grapes (seeded) and sliced bananas. 
Surround with whipped cream and serve very cold. Use 4 
bananas and 3 dozen grapes to this amount of jelly. 

Charlotte Russe. 

One quart of cream, I tablespoon of Sauer's vanilla, whites of 
4 e g& s > : CU P f pulverized sugar, y 2 box of pulverized gelatine, 
I gill of cold milk, I gill of hot milk. \Vhip cream until it is 
stiff, and add the seasoning; beat the eggs and add the sugar; 
soak the gelatine in the cold milk and dissolve with hot milk. 
Beat all together, and fill a dish that has been lined with sponge 
cake or macaroons. 

Custard Charlotte Russe. 

Put I pint of milk on to boil with y 2 box of gelatine. Beat 
the yelks of 2 eggs and y 2 cup of pulverized sugar, and then 
beat in the whites ; pour the hot milk over them. Beat I quart 
of cream and season with Sauer's vanilla or wine. Divide in 
half, and beat half in with eggs. Fill a glass dish with this 
mixture, and pile the rest of the cream on top. Place cake in 
the bottom of the dish before filling with the charlotte. 

Marshmallow Souffle. 

Whites of 6 eggs, 3 tablespoons of powdered sugar, i table- 
spoon of gelatine, I teacup of water, 18 marshmallows, 2 table- 
spoons of Sauer's vanilla extract. Dissolve the gelatine in the 
water and melt y 2 of the marshmallows in it. Whip the eggs 



CREAM, JELLIES, ETC. 113 

and sugar, and pour the warm mixture over them, and add the 
seasoning. Beat until it begins to congeal, pour in a round 
dish, and cover the top with marshmallows. Use only the best 
marsh mallow r s. 

Apple and Cocoanut. 

Core 12 Winesap apples and place in a dish; strew thickly 
with brown sugar, filling in all the holes between the apples 
with it. Stuff the centres of the apples with freshly-grated 
cocoanut, and cover them with water. Bake in a slow oven, 
and w r hen nearly done cover the top with cocoanut, and let it 
brown slightly. Serve with custard. 



SALADS. 

' To make a perfect salad, there should be a 
miser for oil, a spendthrift for vinegar, 
a wise man for salt, and a madcap to stir 
the ingredients up and mix them well 
together." Spanish Proverb. 



SALADS. 

Potato Salad. 

Six large Irish potatoes, boiled and cut in dice ; 6 eggs, 
boiled hard and cut in small pieces ; 3 tablespoons of celery 
seed, i onion chopped fine, 4 large, firm tomatoes, salt and 
pepper to taste. Cut the tomatoes in pieces, using only the firm 
part and discarding the seed. Mix all ingredients together, and 
wet thoroughly With the following dressing: 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 3 raw eggs (yelks only), y^ teacups 
of best olive oil, 3 tablespoons of vinegar, i tablespoon of mus- 
tard, pepper and salt. Mix the mustard and eggs, add oil and 
vinegar, and dress the salad with it. The dressing must be 
thick enough to cut with a knife. 

Turkey Salad. 

One large turkey (boiled and cut in dice), 5 hard-boiled 
eggs (chopped), 4 large pickled cucumbers, y 2 can of potted 
ham, and as much celery as turkey. Mix well and add ]/\ cup 
of celery seed. Dress with the yelks of 10 eggs, 2 teacups of 
oil, 9 tablespoons of vinegar, y 2 teacup of mustard, a dash of 
cayenne, and salt to taste. Mix a mayonnaise and pour over 
the salad. 

Celery Salad. 

Four eggs (whites and yelks), i teaspoon of salt, ]/2 tea- 
spoon of mustard, y 2 teaspoon of black pepper, dash of cayenne, 
i tablespoon of butter, i teacup of vinegar, 2 teacups of cream. 
Boil the vinegar and butter together ; beat the eggs, salt, pepper 
and mustard well together, and pour over them the boiling 



Ii8 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

vinegar; mix well and return to the fire, stirring constantly 
until it thickens. Beat until cool and add the cream. Cut the 
celery in small pieces and pour the dressing over it. Serve 
in a nest of lettuce leaves, garnished with whole English 
walnuts. 

Sweetbread Salad. 

Clean and boil large firm sweetbreads for y 2 an hour. Then 
remove the skin and fibres and cool thoroughly; cut in dice. 
Make a rich mayonnaise and mix it with the sweetbreads. Ar- 
range each plate with lettuce leaves, and put a large tablespoon 
of salad in them. Drop a spoonful of the dressing on the top 
of each and serve very cold. 

Shad Roe Salad. 

One pair of shad roes, 2 gills of mayonnaise, I teaspoon of 
salt, i small onion, 2 heads of lettuce. Wash the roes and put 
them in a sauce-pan with the salt and enough water to cover 
them. Boil for 20 minutes ; remove from the fire, drain and 
set away to cool. When cold cut in dice, mix with the dressing, 
and serve in lettuce. 

Tomato Salad. 

Use enough tomatoes to make i quart after they are peeled 
and cut in sections, or use i quart of canned tomatoes. Boil 
until they can be run through a fine strainer, and while boiling 
add 12 cloves, J/ lemon, a bay leaf, 2 stalks of celery, i teaspoon 
of vinegar and a dash of pepper. When it reaches a good boil, 
throw in 4 tablespoons of granulated gelatine and 2 teaspoons 
of sugar. Stir until the gelatine melts, and strain. Place 2 
stuffed olives in the bottom of timbale moulds and pour the 
jelly over them. Set on Ice, and when ready to serve, pass a 
hot cloth around them and turn out in a nest of lettuce. Serve 
with any rich dressing. 



SALADS. 119 

Cucumber Salad. 

Use medium-size cucumbers; slice off a lengthwise piece 
from each one and hollow out the inside, taking care not to 
break or bruise the meat. Lay in ice-cold water until ready 
for use. Cut the cucumber centres in dice and add ^ a tomato 
for each boat of them, chopping the tomatoes so the seed are 
thrown out. Mix with mayonnaise or cream dressing, and fill 
the boats with the mixture. They must not be filled until just 
before serving, as long standing imparts a bitterness to the 
salad. Serve with cheese wafers. 

Asparagus Salad. 

Turn the contents of I can of asparagus tips on a plate and 
drain the juice from them. Use the small white leaves of let- 
tuce, forming a bed of them in each plate. Fill with the tips, 
and put a tablespoon of mayonnaise on them. Garnish with red 
beets that have been cut in dice and chilled. 

A Dainty Fruit Salad. 

Two oranges, peeled and seeded, removing the thin fibrous 
skin; 2 bananas (sliced), I cup large strawberries, I dozen 
English walnuts. This can be mixed and served with a thick 
sweet syrup in punch glasses, or arranged in lettuce leaves and 
covered with mayonnaise. It must be chilled and the nuts 
sprinkled over the top. 

Cherry Salad. 

Arrange each plate with a triangle of lettuce leaves, filling 
a small head in the centre of each one. Seed and stew some 
red cherries or the wax variety, if you prefer them - - and in 
the centre of each one place i cooked peanut. This keeps the 
shape of the cherry and adds a flavor to the salad. Strew the 
cherries through the leaves and put a tablespoon of mayonnaise 
on each one. Serve very cold. 



120 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Apple Salad. 

Two cups ot diced apples, 2 cups of chopped English wal- 
nuts. Mix well. Arrange a salad bowl with lettuce leaves and 
fill with the apples and nuts. Cover with mayonnaise and gar- 
nish with olives. 

Walnut Salad. 

Cream to a paste fresh cheese, with enough butter to make 
it soft. Roll in small balls and press on each side the half of 
an English walnut. Fill lettuce leaves with them and cover 
with a thick mayonnaise. Serve with thin bread or salt 
crackers. 

Daisy Salad. 

Fill an oblong shallow dish with crisp white lettuce leaves ; 
place a thick mayonnaise over them. Arrange in the centre 
a nest of small leaves, leaving a hole, which must be filled with 
the yelks from 8 hard-boiled eggs, pressed through a potato 
masher. Shred the whites in long thin strips, and strew around 
the yelks to form the petals of the daisy. Serve dressing with 
each plate of salad. 
5 Fish Salad. 

Boil a large red snapper until tender. Skin while hot and 
place on ice to cool thoroughly. Make a rich mayonnaise dress- 
ing and serve with the fish. Cut the fish in thick slices and 
heap the dressing over it ; garnish with points of lemon and 
red beets. The success of this lies in the fish being almost 
frozen and the dressing being thick enough to cut with a knife. 

Salmon Salad. 

Pick a can of red salmon to pieces and take out all bone, fat 
and skin. Chill and add as much celery with it as you have 
meat. Season with salt, pepper and I tablespoon of celery seed. 
Wet thoroughly with a sour mayonnaise and garnish with slices 
of egg. Serve in lettuce hearts. 



SALADS. 121 



SALAD DRESSINGS. 

Cream Salad Dressing. 

Yelks of 2 eggs (beaten), pepper and salt, i tablespoon of 
vinegar, i tablespoon of butter, i teaspoon of mustard, 2 tea- 
spoons of sugar. Mix in a bowl and set it in a pan of boiling 
water; stir until it thickens, and beat well after it comes off 
the fire. Just before using, stir in y 2 cup of whipped cream. 

Hot Cream Dressing. 

This dressing is used for croquettes, oysters, fish, and any 
meat that requires a white sauce. Bring to a boil i pint of 
milk ; cream together i tablespoon of butter and 2 tablespoons 
of flour. When the milk is hot, pour it slowly over the butter 
and flour, and beat well. Let it thicken to the consistency de- 
sired, as different dishes require different sauces, and you will 
have to judge how much cooking it requires for each one. 

Salad Dressing. 

Put 7 tablespoons of water and 7 tablespoons of vinegar on 
to boil, and pour it over 2 well-beaten eggs ; add i teaspoon of 
sugar, i tablespoon of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Return 
to the fire and cook until thick. This can be used for lettuce 
or as a dressing for potatoes. 

Slaw Dressing. 

Half pint of milk, y 2 pint of vinegar, i tablespoon of sugar, 
3 eggs (beaten), 2 tablespoons of butter, i teaspoon of mustard, 
pepper and salt. Mix all together, and cook until thick as 
custard. 



122 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 



Slaw Dressing without Milk. 

One cup of vinegar, i cup of sugar, 2 eggs (whites and 
yelks), i tablespoon of mustard. Beat sugar and eggs and boil 
the vinegar, and while hot pour over the egg mixture. Thicken 
and set away to cool. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Work together the yelks of 6 eggs and l / 2 teacup of mustard ; 
add slowly iy 2 teacups of olive oil, mixing well. Stir in enough 
salt to thicken it, and then add 6 tablespoons of vinegar. Just 
before using add 2 tablespoons of cream. 

French Dressing. 

One saltspoon of salt, l /> saltspoon of pepper, 3 to 5 table- 
spoons of olive oil, i tablespoon of vinegar. Put salt, pepper 
and vinegar in a bowl, and mix slowly with it the oil, stirring 
constantly the same way until the dressing has become ropy. 
Add a little onion juice, if that flavor is not objectionable. 

Tartare Sauce. 

Take a rich mayonnaise and add to it chopped olives, gher- 
kins, capers, parsley and onion. Mix and set on ice until ready 

to use. 

.' 

Cooked Dressing. 

Three eggs, 2 teaspoons of salt, i teaspoon of paprika or 
]/4 saltspoon cayenne, 2 tablespoons of oil or melted butter, I 
cup of milk, y 2 cup of vinegar. Beat yelks until light. Add 
seasoning to vinegar and bring to a boil. Scald milk and pour 
over the beaten yelks. Add vinegar and cook all until thick. 
Add oil and whites of eggs, well beaten, and whip the mixture 
until creamy. 



VARIOUS DISHES. 

"A good digestion to you all ; and once more 
I shower a welcome on you : Welcome all." 

Shakespeare. 



VARIOUS DISHES. 

Deviled Crabs. 

One pint of crab meat, I tablespoon of melted butter, y 2 cup 
of oil, dash ot cayenne, i teaspoon of black pepper, i teaspoon 
of salt, i teaspcon of mustard, l /2 cup of Worcestershire sauce, 
2 tablespoons of celery seed, 2 cups of cracker dust, 2 eggs. 
Make a dressing of the ingredients and add to the crab meat. 
Fill shells and dust the top of each one with cracker dust, and 
place a teaspoon of hard butter on them. Bake until brown 
and serve hot. 

Welsh Rarebit. 

One pound of cheece cut in dice, T 4 bottle of beer, i even 
tablespoon of mustard, red pepper. Cook until cheese has 
melted, stirring constantly. When the rarebit is done, add i 
tablespoon of W orcestershire sauce. Place on hot salt crackers 
and serve at once. 

Omelette. 

Beat 6 eggs very light, yelks and whites separately. Add 
YZ pint of milk to the yelks, with a little salt and pepper, and 
a teaspoon of chopped parsley. Stir in the beaten whites, and 
fry with butter at once. This will make three small omelettes, 
and cook better than if made in a large one. 

Baked Eggs. 

Eight eggs, i cup of milk, i tablespoon of butter, i teaspoon 
of flour, y 2 teaspoon of salt and a little pepper. Put the butter 
in a frying-pan, and when melted, put in the flour; stir until 
smooth and frothy, then draw to the back of the stove and 



126 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

slowly add the milk. Pour into a deep pan and break the eggs 
into the sauce. Bake in a moderate oven until the eggs have set. 

Stuffed Eggs. 

Hard boil I dozen eggs and slice them in half. Take out 
the yelks and mash to a powder. Rub into them y 2 cup of oil, 
i teaspoon of pepper, 2 teaspoons of salt, I teaspoon of mus- 
tard, Y* cup of pickle vinegar, and J^ can of potted ham. Beat 
the mixture until creamy, and fill the whites. Add 2 tablespoons 
of celery seed to the prepared mixture before using. 

Codfish Balls. 

Boil fish until tender and pick from the bone. Measure and 
add equal parts of Irish potatoes or parsnips ; add butter, salt, 
pepper, onion and wine. Make in balls and fry. 

Jellied Tongue. 

Boil 2 tongues until tender, and pull off the skin. Cut in 
thin slices and arrange in a mould, having thin slices of lemon 
in the bottom. Make a jelly of I box of gelatine dissolved in 

1 cup of cold water. Add i quart of boiling water, less the cup, 
then the juice of 4 lemons, 2 cups of sugar, ana i cup of sherry. 
Put a layer of jelly and allow it to set. Add another of tongue 
and one of jelly. Let each layer of jelly harden before putting 
in the next. Set away for 24 hours. 

Timbale of Cold Meat. 

One pint of cold meat, chicken or beef, freed from all fat 
and grisle. Chop fine and add ^2 teaspoon of pepper, i table- 
spoon of salt, i onion, i tablespoon of chopped parsley, i cup 
of milk, 3 eggs, 2 tablespoons of butter, J/ cup of bread crumbs, 

2 tablespoons of celery seed. Mix seasoning and crumbs with 
the meat. Heat milk and melt the butter with it; pour over 



VARIOUS DISHES. 127 

the well-beaten eggs and mix with the meat. Fill buttered cups 
and place them in a pan of water, covering with a piece of 
buttered paper. Bake for i hour in a slow oven and turn on a 
warm dish. Serve with the following sauce : 

Sauce for Timbales. - - Heat 3 tablespoons of butter and 
cream in it 3 tablespoons of flour. Draw to the back of the 
stove and add i cup of stock or milk, i cup of tomatoes and 
i teaspoon of sugar. Stir until it thickens and season with 
pepper and salt. 

Moulded Salmon. 

One can of salmon, picked and freed from fat and bones. 
Cream with it 4 tablespoons of butter and 3 well-beaten eggs. 
Add to it i cup of fine bread crumbs (not dust), the juice of i 
lemon, and J/2 cup of milk or cream. Work well together, and 
fill a buttered mould ; steam for i hour. Turn out and serve 
with the following sauce: 

Sauce. One cup of milk, i tablespoon of flour, 2 tablespoons 
of butter, i tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, pinch of mace 
and pepper to taste, i hard-boiled egg. Melt the butter and 
cream with the flour, add milk and other ingredients, and boil 
until thick. Then run the egg through a potato masher and 
stir into the sauce. The Worcestershire sauce can be added 
to the fish instead of the sauce, if preferred. 

Veal Croquettes. 

To every pint of cooked veal allow i teaspoon of thyme, i 
tablespoon of chopped parsley, i small onion, i teaspoon of 
salt, pepper to taste. Put on the fire ^ pint of milk, and when 
it comes to a boil pour it over 2 tablespoons of flour and i table- 
spoon of butter, creamed; stir until thick and mix with the 
dry ingredients. Roll in pear-shaped cones and fry in boiling 
lard. Stick a whole clove in the top of each one, after they have 
been cooked, for a stem to the pear. 



128 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Salmon Croquettes. 

One can of salmon, picked ; 4 Irish potatoes, boiled and 
mashed; mix with the salmon; 2 eggs (beaten), butter size 
of an egg (melted), I tablespoon of celery seed, red pepper 
and salt. Mix and form in cones, dip in the white of an egg 
and then in cracker dust, and fry in boiling lard. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

One 4-pound chicken, i pair sweetbreads, i small onion, I 
bay leaf, i sprig of parsley. Boil the chicken and sweetbreads 
separately. Put the chicken on to boil with the above season- 
ings ; simmer until well done, and remove all meat from the 
bones, but do not chop it until it has been put on the fire again 
and allowed to simmer with the strained juice for 5 minutes. 
Prepare sweetbread and cook for 15 minutes, drain, cover with 
boiling water, add i teaspoon of salt and place over a moderate 
fire for 20 minutes. Do not let them boil. When done, throw 
in cold water, remove all skin and chop fine. Chop the chicken 
and mix the two. Make a sauce as for veal croquettes, and roll 
them in the same way for frying. 

Chestnut Croquettes. 

Shell, blanch and boil until tender large French Chestnuts. 
Mash enough to make i pint, and season with i teaspoon of 
salt, dash of red pepper, i teaspoon of onion juice and i ounce 
of butter. Beat i egg and 2 tablespoons of cracker dust and 
cream to the nuts. Mould in balls, dip in egg, then cracker dust, 
and fry in boiling lard. 

Curry. 

One pair of chickens or 2 pounds of veal (the rack is best), 
i sweetbread, 2 onions, 4 Irish potatoes, 2 tablespoons of curry. 
Cut the meat as for stewing, dredge it lightly with flour, and 



VARIOUS DISHES. 129 

brown just a triffle. Slice and brown the onions, pare and 
quarter the potatoes, boil the sweetbread. Place all the ingre- 
dients in a deep sauce-pan, covering well with water. Season 
with salt and pepper to taste. Let it cook slowly until the 
meat is thoroughly done. Remove meat and potatoes and 
thicken the gravy with browned flour. Pour over the meat 
and serve. Arrange a rim of boiled rice around the curry, or 
serve it as a separate dish. 

Scraple. 

Take 4 pounds of pork and boil it well ; a pig's head is the 
best, and it should not be too fat. Boil in a separate pan i pound 
of calf's liver, and throw away the water in which it has been 
boiled. The water in which the pork has been boiled can be 
used in the scraple. Remove all bones from the pork and chop 
liver and pork very fine. Mix well and put in an iron pot with 
the water in which the pork was boiled. Add 2 quarts of hot 
water. Season well with salt and pepper, sage and sweet mar- 
joram. Thicken as you would mush, using buckwheat and 
cornmeal in equal quantities. Boil for I hour, stirring con- 
stantly to prevent burning. When thoroughly cooked pour into 
tin pans or dishes about 2 or 3 inches deep. Allow it to cool 
and slice in strips. Fry for breakfast or supper. 

t 

Celery Sandwiches. 

Slice Graham bread as thin as possible, cutting off the crusts. 
Spread with a rich mayonnaise, and place on one side a mixture 
of chopped olives and celery, using twice as much celery as 
olives. Cover another slice of bread with dressing, and put 
them together. Serve very cold. White bread can be used in 
place of the Graham bread, and the sandwich cut in any shape 
desired. 



130 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Ham Sandwich. 

Beat 2 eggs well with 5 tablespoons of vinegar, i tablespoon 
oi sugar, y% teaspoon of made mustard, I teaspoon of butter. 
Put in a bowl and allow it to thicken over hot water. Mash 
i can of potted ham and cream the dressing with it. Spread on 
thin slices of white bread and told together. 

Lettuce Sandwich. 

Cut the bread with a sandwich cutter, and spread each slice 
with Royal cheese that has been creamed to a soft paste with 
melted butter. Put a crisp lettuce leaf between each piece, i 
tablespoon of mayonnaise on it, and fold another slice over it. 

Peanut Sandwich. 

One quart fresh roasted peanuts, chopped fine, not pounded. 
Alix with a thick mayonnaise, and butter thin bread with it. 
Place two slices together, and cut out in round pieces with a 
sharp cake cutter. 

Cheese Straws. 

Grate 3 tablespoons of dairy cheese ; add 3 tablespoons flour, 
a dash of red pepper and a pinch of salt. Add to dry ingre- 
dients i tablespoon of melted butter, i of milk and the yelk of 
i egg. Roll as thin as possible, and cut in strips 4 inches long 
and YZ wide. Bake in a quick oven. 

Kidney Stew. 

Boil 2 kidneys until tender, adding a little salt to the water. 
Change water twice. Chop fine when tender. Make a sauce of 
i cup of milk, i cup of water kidneys were boiled in. Thicken 
with i tablespoon of butter and i tablespoon of flour, creamed 
to a paste. Put all on fire and stir in kidneys. Season with 
red pepper. For b people. 



CANDIES. 

"The daintiest last, to make the end most sweet." 

Shakespeare. 



CANDIES. 

Fondant. 

One quart of white sugar, I pint of boiling water. Pour 
the water over the sugar and stir until dissolved. Then place 
the stew-pan over a brisk fire and boil without stirring until it 
forms a soft ball when dropped in cold water. Keep the sides 
free from all granules by wiping them down with a wet cloth. 
Remove from the fire and place the pan in one of cold water 
until you can dip your finger to the bottom without burning. 
Beat hard with a spoon until the sugar is too hard to handle. 
Turn out on a flat tray and work as you would bread. This 
is the basis of all French candies, and can be flavored and shaped 
as you like. 

"Potatoes." 

Use the fondant above, working in as much desiccated cocoa- 
nut, about 2 cups, as it will hold. Season with Sauer's vanilla 
extract, and form into small oblong pieces, moulding them in 
the shape of potatoes with your fingers. Roll in cocoa and stick 
small pieces of nut in them for eyes. Do not melt the cocoa 
before using it. 

A Good Taffy Pull. 

One quart of molasses, ^ pound of butter; boil until thick 
and try in cold water. Just before it comes off the fire pour in 
y 2 cup of vinegar and beat for a minute. Pour on buttered tins 
and pull when cool enough to handle. 

Cocoanut Drops. 

One pound of dry cocoanut, I pound of pulverized sugar, 
whites of 2 eggs. Beat the egg and work it in the sugar and 



134 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

cocoanut. Season with Sauer's vanilla and form in small balls. 
Bake on buttered tins in a slow oven. 

Brown Cocoanut Candy. 

One pound of dried cocoanut, 2 ounces of butter, 2 cups of 
milk, 2 pound of brown sugar, Sauer's vanilla extract to taste. 
Boil the sugar, milk and butter until it ropes from the spoon ; 
then beat the cocoanut in, and continue beating until hard. 
Pour on buttered dishes and block in squares. 

Maple Creams. 

Take one-half as much water as maple sugar, and boil it 
without stirring. When it is nearly done, drop in a small piece 
of butter. When it will harden in cold water, take off and beat 
rapidly until it becomes waxen. Make in small balls and place 
an English walnut on each side. 

Chocolate Caramels. 

Four pounds of brown sugar, J/ pound of Baker's chocolate, 
y 2 pint milk, y 2 pound of butter, i small bottle of Sauer's vanilla 
extract. Cook until it hardens when beaten well. Pour out on 
buttered dishes and stir until it sugars. 

Cream Chocolate Caramels. 

One and one-half pounds of brown sugar, 24 pound of choco- 
late, 24 pound of butter, y 2 pint milk. Flavor with Sauer's 
vanilla. Cook for 10 minutes from the time it boils hard, and 
beat until it begins to sugar. Pour in buttered dishes and cut 
in blocks. 

Cocoanut Caramels. 

Use the above recipe, beating in y 2 pound of dried cocoanut 
when the chocolate begins to sugar. Block in the usual size. 



CANDIES. 135 

Nut Fudge. 

Three cups of white sugar, i l / cups of cream, i cup of 
chopped nuts, Sauer's vanilla to taste. Boil cream and sugar 
for 10 minutes. Stir in the nuts- -the kind you prefer- -and 
stir briskly for a few minutes. Pour on greased tins and block 
when cold. 

Cream Candy. 

Three cups white sugar, i cup water, I teaspoon vinegar. 
Cook without stirring until it strings. Then beat until creamy, 
and add i cup of cocoanut and Sauer's extract of vanilla to 
taste. Cover the bottom of a flat dish (that has been greased) 
with chopped nuts, raisins, citron and cherries. Pour the candy 
over them and cut in squares. 

Peanut Nugat. 

Two cups shelled peanuts, pounded fine ; 2 cups of white 
sugar. Put the sugar in a stew-pan and allow it to melt, stir- 
ring all the time. No water is necessary. When it has thor- 
oughly melted, pour in the peanuts and mix quickly together. 
Remove from the fire at once. Wet the biscuit board well with 
cool water, also the rolling-pin, and pour the candy on the board. 
Roll as you would bread dough, keeping the rolling-pin thor- 
oughly wet, until the candy is thin as a wafer. Cut in strips and 
break in small pieces. This candy requires rapid handling, or 
it will harden before it can be rolled thin enough. 

Marroons. 

Cook Italian chestnuts until they are soft. Peel and throw 
in a rich syrup. Stew until they are well coated in the sugar. 
Strain out and roll in pulverized sugar. Dry on buttered papers 
and pack away in sugar. 



136 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Peppermint Drops. 

Three cups white sugar, I cup water, 8 drops oil of pepper- 
mint. Boil for 10 minutes and beat until creamy. Drop on oiled 
paper, or better yet, a marble slab. 

Peppermint Cream Drops. 

Use the recipe for fondant, adding enough peppermint to 
flavor. Shape between your fingers flat round pieces the size 
of a quarter and allow them to harden. The next day melt 
enough Baker's chocolate to cover them, and drop them in with 
a fork. Place on oiled paper to dry. They are firm and creamy, 
and if shaped well can hardly be told from the confectioners. 

Stuffed Dates. 

Pit large dates and fill the centres with pecan nuts. Press 
three together and roll in powdered sugar. You can fill the 
centres with fondant, peanuts or almonds, and a very pleasant 
change for a filling is to use cottage cheese, moistened with 
butter, salt, pepper and a little sherry. Fill the openings and 
leave enough through the slit to show the color. Do not put 
them together or roll in sugar, but serve with coffee and salt 
wafers. 

Marshmallow Creams. 

Cut large marshmallows in half. Melt some fondant and 
dip the halves in it, coating them well. Let it dry a very little 
and dip in fresh cocoanut. Some can be dipped in melted 
chocolate after they have thoroughly hardened. 






Stuffed Figs. 

Take large dried figs and pull them apart, leaving the centre 
for a filling. Stuff with chopped nuts, citron, conserves, dates 
and raisins. Pinch the skin firmly together and mould them 
the shape of fresh figs. Dip in powdered sugar and use as a 
bonbon. 



BEVERAGES. 

"One sip of this 

Will bathe the drooping spirits in delight 
Beyond the bliss of dreams." 

Milton. 



BEVERAGES. 

Blackberry Wine. 

Fill a 5-gallon jar with berries that are thoroughly ripe and 
free from dirt. Mash them well and allow them to remain for 
36 hours. Squeeze through a heavy bag and measure the juice. 
Allow 3 pounds of brown sugar to every quart of juice. Put the 
two in a large open-mouth jar and throw a cloth over it. Skim 
every day until the beads stop forming over the top. Put in 
a demijohn and tie a thin piece of muslin over the mouth. After 
two months, or after all sign of fermentation has ceased, draw 
off and bottle for use. 

Grape Wine. 

father small purple grapes when thoroughly ripe. Pick 
from the stem only those that are firm and throw them in a bowl 
of cold water. Mash and drain, and make as blackberry wine. 

Grape Juice. 

Pick all sound grapes from the bunch and fill a stew-pan 
24 full- Wash the grapes well before using. Cover well with 
water and boil slowly for 20 minutes, or y 2 hour if they are not 
broken. Strain through a bag, extracting all the juice. Put the 
liquid in a kettle with a CUD of white sugar to each quart of 
juice and boil for 10 minutes. Bottle and seal. This can be 
made of any good purple grape. 

Parsnip Wine. 

Chop enough parsnips to fill a quart measure, and then cover 
them with i gallon of water. Boil for I hour, strain off and add 
3 pounds of white sugar. When cold, mix in I tablespoon of 
hop yeast. Let stand 6 months, and then bottle and cork. 



TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 



Strawberry Acid. 

Six ounces tartaric acid, 2 quarts water, 12 pounds straw- 
berries. Allow to stand 48 hours, then strain. To every pound 
of juice add i l /> pounds of sugar. Bottle and cork tightly. 

Champagne Punch. 

One quart of Apolinaris water, i quart Sautern, 6 lemons 
(juice only), 3 oranges (juice only), i cup best green tea, l / 2 
pound white sugar, i wineglass chartruse, I wineglass of Angos- 
tura bitters, 3 bottles champagne. Mix all ingredients but the 
champagne. This must be added just before serving. Enough 
for 20 people. 

A Good Plain Punch. 

One quart of whiskey, T /2 pint rum, i large teacup of strong 
green tea, i goblet orange juice, i lemon. Sweeten to taste. 

Tea Punch. 

Eight teaspoonfuls of best tea ; green is best. Peel of 6 
lemons, put in i quart of cold water and boil long enough to 
extract the flavor (about 20 minutes). Strain the tea, then add 
i3/; pounds of sugar, the juice of 6 lemons, and i quart of 
Jamaica spirit. Slice 2 lemons very thin, and add to the punch. 
Just before serving pour in i quart of champagne and drop a 
block of ice in the bowl. 

Egg-Nog. 

Six eggs, i quart of crearn, 4 pounds of sugar (powdered), 
i tumbler best brandy, l / 2 tumbler best sherry. Beat the yelks 
light, then beat in y 2 the sugar, then pour in, while stirring 
slowly, the brandy and wine to cook the eggs. Beat the eggs 
stiff, and with them beat the rest of the sugar. Mix with the 
other materials, and, lastly, stir in the cream. 



BEVERAGES. 141 

Punch. 

Take the juice of 20 lemons to i pound of powdered sugar, 
mix ana allow it to remain over night. Next day add I pint of 
brandy, I quart of rum, I quart champagne, I dozen soda. Put 
in a large lump of ice. Flavor with pineapple, strawberries, or 
any fresh fruit you prefer. 

Egg-Nog. 

To each glass of milk use i egg, I tablespoon sugar, i wine- 
glass of whiskey, and rum to taste. Beat the yelks and sugar 
together; beat in the milk and stir hard. Pour over this the 
whiskey, a little at a time, as it cooks the eggs, and must be 
beaten all the time the whiskey is being poured in. Add rum. 
Beat the whites of the eggs and pile over the top. Set in a cool 
place. Double or triple these proportions as needed. 

Raspberry Vinegar. 

To 4 quarts of red raspberries add enough vinegar to cover 
them, and let it stand 24 hours. Scald and strain. Add I pound 
of sugar to i pint of juice, and boil for 20 minutes. Bottle and 
seal. Ready for immediate use, and will keep for years if tightly 
sealed. To every glass of water add i tablespoon of the vinegar. 

Champagne Cocktail. 

Use a champagne goblet. One lump of sugar, i dash of 
bitters, I piece of lemon peel, i slice of orange, one-third glass 
shaved ice. Fill with champagne and mix well. 

Manhattan Cocktail. 

Use a mixing glass. One-half glass ice, 2 dashes rum, 2 
dashes Angostura, 2 dashes Maraschino, y 2 wineglass whiskey, 
Y-Z wineglass French vermuth. Stir well and strain into cocktail 
glass, adding a cherry. If wanted dry, use Italian vermuth. 



142 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Hot Scotch. 

Use hot Scotch cup. One wineglass Scotch whiskey, I lump 
sugar, i piece lemon peel, ^4 glass hot water. Grate nutmeg 
on top and serve. 

High Ball. 

One lump ice, i jigger old whiskey; fill with carbonated 
water and serve. 

Life Saver. 

Use a small punch glass. Three small lumps ice, 3 dashes 
lemon juice, a little sugar, */ 2 pony gin, y 2 pony vermuth. Stir 
well, adding seltzer until full. 

Rickey. 

Take y^ lime and squeeze it in a goblet y* full of ice, add i 
drink of whiskey, and stir with seltzer. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



Happy in this, she is not yet so old 
But she may learn." 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

Chocolate. 

Scrape 3 ounces of sweetened chocolate ; add 2 tablespoons 
of sugar and 3 tablespoons of water. Stir over a hot fire until 
smooth. Add I quart of boiling milk, and cook for a few 
minutes. Season with i teaspoon of Sauer's vanilla, and serve 
with whipped cream. You can use half milk and half water, 
if you prefer a drink not so rich. 

Beef Tea. 

One pound round of beef, freed from all fat and grisle. Cut 
in dice and cover with cold water for 15 minutes to extract the 
juice. Then set the pan on the fire and boil for 20 minutes. 
Beat an egg until light, and strain into it the juice, which must 
be boiling hot. Season with pepper and salt. Just before using 
pour through a thin cloth that has been wrung out in cold water. 
Heat thoroughly and add a few celery seed to flavor. 

Lemon Butter, No. i. 

Grate the yellow from the rind of 2 lemons and squeeze out 
the juice. Two cups sugar, 2 eggs (beaten separately). Mix 
the yelk and sugar, then add the beaten whites and lemon. Pour 
over this i cup of boiling water. Stir into it 2 tablespoons of 
flour, rubbed smooth with y?. cup of cold water. Run through 
a strainer, and add I tablespoon of butter. Cook until thick and 
smooth. This can be used for pies, cakes or as a preserve. 

Lemon Butter, No. 2. 

Beat 6 eggs, i pound sugar and l / pound of butter. Mix 
well and set in a pan of water. Add 3 lemons, juice and rind, 



146 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

and stir briskly until thick enough not to run. Use in cake 
or on bread and crackers. 

Molasses. 

Four pounds- brown sugar, i quart of boiling water. Cook 
until thick. 

Burnt Syrup. 

One pound of brown sugar, put over the fire in a sauce-pan, 
stir all the time until it melts and begins to burn. Then quickly 
add I pint of boiling water and cook until a rich syrup. Season 
when cold with Sauer's vanilla, and use as any other syrup for 
cakes. 

Golden Syrup. 

Five pounds of white sugar, i quart boiling water. Boil for 
5 minutes and add 2 pounds strained honey. Beat hard and 
cook well. 

To Season Whipped Cream. 

One quart of cream, whipped until it is stiff ; 2 tablespoons 
of pulverized sugar, i tablespoon of Sauer's vanilla extract. The 
cream should whip up double its quantity, and be firm and stiff 
before the seasonings and sugar are added. 

Caramel for Seasoning. 

Two pounds of brown sugar. Burn over a hot fire until it 
smokes. Pour over it i quart of boiling water and stir until 
thoroughly dissolved. Boil to a rich syrup and bottle for use. 

Pudding Sauce. 

One-halt cup butter, i cup sugar, 5 eggs. Beat butter and 
sugar to a cream ; throw in the well-beaten yelks, then the 
whites, and stir to a froth. Add brandy or wine to your taste. 
Put in a stew-pan and place over the fire until it almost boils. 
Use for cakes or puddings. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 147 

Chocolate Paste. 

Three ounces Baker's chocolate, I cup boiling water, y 2 cup 
sugar, i teaspoon Sauer's vanilla extract. Grate chocolate or 
cut it up in small pieces. Pour the boiling water and sugar 
over it, and cook until a thick paste. Season, and when cold 
use on bread or crackers. 

Sugar. 

Pulverized sugar will not lump so quickly if kept tightly 
covered in small wooden kegs. 

Pickles. 

Cover your pickles that are in brine with strips of horse 
radish and they will not mould. 

Milk for Sleeplessness. 

Try a glass of hot milk just before going to bed. It will help 
you sleep and quiet the nerves. 

For Chapped Hands. 

One teaspoon glycerine, 10 grains borax, 2 tablespoons rose 
water. Mix and bottle. 

Another. 

Two ounces rose water, I ounce glycerine, 2 ounces lemon 
juice. Mix well and use as a lotion. 

To Prevent Chapped Hands. 

Take the yelk of an egg, ^ cup of pure honey, I cup corn- 
meal, and form into a ball. Place in a cool, dry place and allow 
it to harden. Use instead of soap during the winter, and the 
hands will not chap. 



148 TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 

Cleaning Fluid. 

Eour ounces of ammonia, 4 ounces castile soap, 2 ounces 
alcohol, 2 ounces glycerine, 2 ounces ether. Shake well and use 
for cleaning spots from woollen clothing. 

To Keep Cake Fresh. 

Place 2 firm apples in the box with the cake, and you will 
find the cake keeps fresh a long time. 

To Remove Ink Stains. 

Rub ripe tomatoes on a spot of ink on any wash cloth, and 
it will disappear. They will remove the stains from the hands 
also. 

For a Cough. 

Whip the white of an egg to a stiff froth. Add 3 tablespoons 
of powdered sugar and the juice from y 2 a lemon. Beat well, 
and take a teaspoonful every half hour. This will loosen a tight 
cough and relieve the throat very much. 

Peeling Onions. 

When onions are peeled in large quantities, and the eyes 
smart from the strength of them, you can do away with a great 
deal of it by peeling them under water. 

To Prevent Boiling Over. 

In pre^rving, throw a tablespoon of cold water in a kettle 
that is boiling over, and it will stop for a second or two, long 
enough to save the juice and remove the kettle to a cooler part 
of the stove. 

Lemons will keep fresh many days if covered with fresh 
water, changing it every two days. 



INDEX. 



INDEX. 



SOUPS- 

Vegetable Soup, , 

Noodles for Soup, 

Potato Soup, 

Chicken Scup, , 

Chicken Jelly Soup, ... , 
Cream of Celery Soup, 

Split Pea Soup, 

Brunswick Stew, 

Mock Turtle Soup, 



OYSTERS 

Fried, 

Scalloped, 

Pigs in Blankets, 

Pickle, 

Raw, 



MEATS- 



Scotch Collops, 

Beef Balls, 

To Boil a Ham, 

To Stuff a Ham, .... 

Ham Balls, 

Breaded Chops, 

A Sweet Lamb Stew, 

Fried Chicken, 

Mush Cakes, . 

Pressed Chicken, .... 
Chicken Fritters, .... 
Chicken Fried with 

Gravy 

Stuffing for Fowls, . . 
Stuffing for Ducks, . 
Chestnut Stuffing, . . . 



Cream 



BREADS 

Yeast, 

Sponge 

Light Bread, 
Corn, 



9 

9 

10 

10 
10 
10 

II 
II 
II 



15 
15 
15 

IS 
16 



19 
19 
19 
19 
20 
20 

21 
21 
21 
21 
22 

22 

22 
22 
22 



25 
25 
26 

26 



BREADS Continued. 

Batter Bread, 26 

Spoon Corn Bread, 27 

Risen Muffins, 27 

Beaten Biscuits, 27 

Waffles without Eggs, 28 

Brown Bread, 28 

Quick Sally Lunn, 28 

Palias Royal Biscuits, 28 

Juliet's Pop-Overs, 28 

Luncheon Gems, 29 

Fruit Loaf, 29 

Cinnamon Buns, 29 

Powder Biccuit, 29 

Thin Biscuits, 30 

Potato Rolls, 30 

Buckwheat Cakes, 30 

Royal Corn Bread, 30 

SAUCES AND CATSUPS 

Tomato, 33 

Grape, 33 

Lemon, 33 

Walnut, 34 

Seasoning for Gravies, 34 

Celery Vinegar, 34 

Green Tomato Sauce, 34 

Ripe Tomato Sauce, 35 

Pepper Sauce, 35 

Egg Sauce, 35 

PICKLES AND PRESERVES 

Pickled Onions, 39 

Cucumbers, 39 

Cucumbers made in Molasses, 40 

Good Proportions for Pickling, 40 

Chow Chow, 40 

Yellow Pickle, 41 

Yellow Cabbage Pickle, 41 

Mustard Pickle, 42 

Mustard Chow Chow, 42 



152 



TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES Continued. 

Ripe Tomato Pickle, 42 

Chopped Pickle, 43 

Gherkins, 43 

Plain Mangoes, . . 43 

Oil Mangoes, 44 

Peach Mangoes, 44 

Sweet Peach Pickle, 45 

Pickled Damsons, 45 

Pickled Plums, 45 

Crab-Apple Pickle, 45 

Spiced Currants, 46 

Spiced Cherries, 46 

Watermelon Pickle 46 

Sweet Cantaloupe Pickle, .... 46 

Sweet Watermelon Pickle, . . 47 

Pickled Eggs, 47 

Good Proportions for Preserv- 
ing, 48 

Hints, 48 

General Directions, 48 

Strawberries Preserved Whole, 49 
To Preserve Strawberries in 

Wine, 49 

Pears Preserved Whole, 49 

Sliced Pear Preserves, 49 

Sliced Pippins, 50 

Apple Mange, 50 

Orange Conserves, 5 

Preserved Orange Peel, 50 

Peach Marmalade, 51 

Sweet Meats, 51 

Pineapple Preserves, 51 

Preserved Quinces, 52 

Quince Paste, 52 

Preserved Grapes, 52 

Crab- Apples, 52 

Blackberry Jam, 53 

To Jelly Fruit, 53 

Grape Jelly, 53 

Peach Jelly, 53 

Tutti Fruitti, 54 

Brandy Peaches, 54 

Brandy Pears, 55 

Brandy Peaches, 55 

VEGETABLES 

Stuffed Potatoes, 59 

Potato Chips, 59 



VEGETABLES Continued. 



Potato Croquettes, 

Moulded Potatoes, 

Potato Baskets, 

Potato Cakes, 

Potato Balls, 

Stuffed Potatoes with Meat,, 

Baked Potatoes, 

Rice Croquettes, 

Corn Fritters, 

Corn Pudding, 

Ladies' Cabbage, 

Stuffed Cabbage, 

Stuffed Peppers, 

Browned Sweet Potatoes, .. 

Stuffed Onions, 

Maccaroni and Oysters, . . . 

Spinach and Eggs, 

Creamed Beans, 



PIES 



Pastry, 

Chess Cake Pie, 

Love Puffs, 

Cocoanut Cream Pie, 

Cocoanut Pie, 

Cocoanut Pie Baked in Dou- 
ble Crust, 

Cocoanut Gems, 

Lemon Pie, 

Lemon Pie, 

White Lemon Pie, 

Sweet Potato Pie, 

Rich Sweet Potato Pie, 

Raisin Pie, 

Caramel Pie, 

Fritters, 

Pancakes, 

Cream Puffs, 

Apple Dumplings, 

Drop Cakes, 

Raisin Puffs, 

Mince Meat, 



60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
61 
61 
61 
61 
61 
62 
62 
62 
63 
63 
6.3 
63 
64 



67 
67 
67 
67 
68 

68 
68 
68 

69 

69 

69 
69 

69 
70 

70 
70 
70 



72 



PUDDINGS 



Poor Man's Pudding, 75 

Huckleberry Pudding, 75 

Blackberry Pudding, 76 



INDEX. 



153 



PUDDINGS Continued. 

Soda Pudding, 76 

Country Pudding, 76 

Apple Pudding, 76 

Sponge Pudding to Eat with 

Wine Sauce, 77 

Sponge Pudding, 77 

Plum Pudding, 77 

Sweet Potato Pudding, 78 

Grated Pudding, 78 

Boiled Custard, 78 

Baked Custard, 79 

Boiled Cocoanut Custard, .... 79 

Custard Maccaroons, 79 

Spanish Cream, 79 

Meringues, 80 

Snow Pudding, 80 

Rice Caramel Pudding, 80 

Cream Pudding, 81 

Corn Starch Pudding, 81 

Strawberry Short Cake, 82 

Chocolate Pudding, 82 

CAKES 

General Rules for Mixing, ... 85 

Old-Fashioned Jumbles, 85 

German Pretzels, or Ringlets, 86 

Tea Cakes, 86 

Queen Cake, 86 

Cinnamon Cake, 86 

Sauer's Vanilla Drop Cakes,. . 86 

Cocoanut Cakes, 87 

Marguerites, 87 

Ginger Snaps, 87 

Molasses Cookies, 87 

Old-Fashioned Ginger Cakes, 88 

Rich Drop Cakes, 88 

Peanut Cookies, 88 

Cookies, 88 

Currant Cookies, 88 

Sauer's Vanilla Cookies, 89 

Ring Timbles, 89 

Christmas Cookies, 89 

Dough-Nuts, 89 

Crullers, 90 

Vanilla Snaps, 90 

Christmas Stars, 90 

Kisses, 91 

Creole Kisses, 91 



CAKES Continued. 

Cup Cake, 91 

Marble Cake, 91 

Rich Marble Cake, 92 

White Cake, 92 

Dover Cake, 92 

Cocoanut Cake, 92 

Cocoanut-Chocolate Cake, ... 93 

Chocolate Cake, 93 

Caramel Cake, 93 

Lemon Cake, 94 

Walnut Cake, 94 

Date Cake, 94 

Silver and Gold Cake, 95 

Fig Cake, 95 

Sponge Cake, 95 

Almond Cake, 96 

White Fruit Cake, 96 

Black Fruit Cake, 96 

Light Fruit Cake, 96 

Large Fig Cake, 97 

Lemon Citron Cake, 97 

Rolled Jelly Cake, 97 

Raisin Cake, 98 

Raisin and Citron Cake, 98 

German Wine Cake, 98 

German Bread Cake, 98 

Raisin Ginger Bread, 98 

Ginger Bread, 99 

Ginger Cup Cake, 99 

Cherry Cake, 99 

Almond Cake, 99 

A Quick Cake, 100 

Good Cake to Eat with Sauce, 100 

Orange Icing, 100 

Cooked Orange Filling, 100 

Chocolate Icing, 101 

Chocolate Cream Icing, 101 

Cinnamon Icing, 101 

Caramel Icing, 101 



CREAM, JELLIES, ETC. 

Freezing, 105 

Pure Vanilla Cream, 105 

Strawberry Cream, 105 

Raspberry Cream, 105 

Peach Cream, 106 

Apple Cream, 106 

Banana Cream, 106 



154 



TESTED VIRGINIA RECIPES. 



CREAM, JELLIES, ETC. Continued. 

Pineapple Cream, ........... 106 

Bisque, 107 

Caramel Cream, 107 

Chocolate Ice Cream, 107 

Lemon Ice Cream, 107 

Sultana Roll, 108 

Chestnut Cream, 108 

Frozen Pudding, 108 

Maple Cream, 109 

Chocolate Sauce for Cream,. . 109 
Mint Sauce for Vanilla Cream, 109 

Lemon Ice, 109 

Orange Ice no 

Gelatine Ice, no 

Ambrosia, no 

Blanc-Mange, no 

Custard Blanc-Mange, no 

German Blanc-Mange, in 

Snow Flake, in 

Apple Snow, in 

Jelly, in 

Tutti Fruitti Jelly, 112 

Charlotte Russe, 112 

Custard Charlotte Russe, .... 112 

Marshmallow Souffle, 112 

Apple and Cocoanut, 113 

SALADS 

Potato Salad, 117 

Turkey Salad, 117 

Celery Salad, 117 

Sweetbread Salad, 118 

Shad Roe Salad, 118 

Tomato Salad, 118 

Cucumber Salad, 119 

Asparagus Salad, 119 

A Dainty Fruit Salad, 119 

Cherry Salad, 119 

Apple Salad, 120 

Walnut Salad, 120 

Daisy Salad, 120 

Fish Salad, 120 

Salmon Salad, 120 

SALAD DRESSINGS 

Cream Salad Dressing, 121 

Hot Cream Dressing, 121 



SALAD DRESSINGS Continued. . .-..'. 

Salad Dressing, . -121 

Slaw Dressing, 121 

Slaw Dressing Without Milk, .122 

Mayonnaise Dressing, 122 

French Dressing, 122 

Tartare Dressing, 122 

Cooked Dressing, 122 

VARIOUS DISHES 

Deviled Crabs, 125 

Welsh Rarebit, 125 

Omelette, 125 

Baked Eggs, 125 

Stuffed Lggs, 126 

Codfish Balls, 126 

Jellied Tongue, 126 

Timbale of Cold Meat, 126 

Moulden Salmon, 127 

Veal Croquettes, 127 

Salmon Croquetttes, 128 

Chicken Croquettes, 128 

Chestnut Croquettes, 128 

Curry, 128 

Scraple, 129 

Celery Sandwiches, 129 

Ham Sandwich, 130 

Lettuce Sandwich, 130 

Peanut Sandwich, 130 

Cheese Straws, 130 

Kidney Stew, 130 

CANDIES 

Fondant, 133 

"Potatoes," 133 

A Good Taffy Pull, 133 

Cocoanut Drops, 133 

Brown Cocoanut Candy, 134 

Maple Creams, 134 

Chocolate Caramels, 134 

Cream Chocolate Caramels, . . 134 

Cocoanut Caramels, 134 

Nut Fudge, 135 

Cream Candy, 135 

Peanut Nugat, 135 

Marroons, 135 

Peppermint Drops, 136 

Peppermint Cream Drops, ... 136 



INDEX. 



155 



CANDIES Continued. 

Stuffed Dates, 136 

Marshmallow Creams, 136 

Stuffed Figs, 136 

BEVERAGES 

Blackberry Wine, 139 

Grape Wine, 139 

Grape Juice, 139 

Parsnip Wine, 139 

Strawberry Acid, 140 

Champagne Punch, 140 

A Good Plain Punch, 140 

Tea Punch, 140 

Egg-Nog, 140 

Punch, 141 

Raspberry Vinegar, 141 

Champagne Cocktail, 141 

Manhattan Cocktail, 141 

Hot Scotch, 142 

High Ball, 142 

Life Saver, 142 

Rickey, 142 



MISCELLANEOUS 

Chocolate, 145 

Beef Tea, 145 

Lemon Butter, No. I, 145 

Lemon Butter, No. 2, 145 

Molasses, 146 

Burnt Syrup, 146 

Golden Syrup, 146 

To Season Whipped Cream,.. 146 

Caramel for Seasoning, 146 

Pudding Sauce, 146 

Chocolate Paste, 147 

Sugar, 147 

Pickles, 147 

Milk for Sleeplessness, 147 

For Chapped Hands, 147 

To Prevent Chapped Hands,. 147 

Cleaning Fluid, 148 

To Keep Cake Fresh, 148 

To Remove Ink Stains, 148 

For a Cough, 148 

Peeling Onions, 148 

To Prevent Boiling Over, . . . 148 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



"The Cup that Cheers." 



LIPTON'S TEAS 




d. Buy a package of the delicious Tea and 

give it to your friends for afternoon tea. 

They will be delighted with its exquisite 

flavor. 

Ct. Packed in air tight cans only. 

Ct, All grocers handle it. 



Fragrant and Delicious 



Will Not Bite the Tongue 




Best for Pipe Smokers 




'HE manufacture of LUCKY STRIKE amounts to a great discovery 
/ in its originality, and is beyond imitation. It is WHOLESOME- 

V^' tne nicotine being so eliminated that it may be used constantly with- 
out risk of nervousness and other troubles attending the excessive use 
of tobacco. It is a COOL, MILD SMOKE, and will not bite the tongue. 
Thousands of voluntary testimonials from Pipe Smokers attest the true merits 
of LUCKY STRIKE. 

R. A. Patterson Tobacco Co., 

Richmond, Virginia. 





MRS. R. J. JOHNSON'S 



trgwta 





|hrkl* 



The Best Pickle on the Market. Sold by the Leading 

Grocers of the Country. 

- * 

Ask your Grocer for it, and if he does not carry it in stock insist 

upon his writing for prices to 

MRS. R. J. JOHNSON PICK'LE CO., 

16TH AND BROWN STS., RICHMOND, VA. 



'Phone 3052. 



iiamt & Irohm, 





No. 5 W. Broad St. 



Richmond, Virginia 



'PHONE 3121 HNGRAVER OF CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, MONOGRAMS, &C. 



NUDD 



Watrh S^airtng anb lEttgrabtng 



FORMERLY >i TH 222 E. BROAD STREET, 

C. LUMSDEN & SON 

JEWELERS RICHMOND, VA. 



J. B. MOORE & CO. 




1009 E. Main Street, Richmond, Va. 



PHONE 4701. 205 E. BROAD ST. 



BROWNE & CONSTINE, 

(Urnrkerg, (glaBshmrr 
SUtntisljings 



Pave the 'Road to the Heart" with the right goods, at right 
prices. We have the most complete stock of them. 



Am? riran National Sank 

UNITED STATES, STATE AND CITY 
DEPOSITARY. 



Commercial Accounts. Received on most favorable terms, 
consult us. 

Savings Accounts. Our Savings Department offers the same 
terms as Savings Banks. Pays 3 per cent. 

Safe deposit boxes for rent. 

We issue our drafts on all commercial cities of the world. 

We have a separate dapartment for women, whom we cordially 
welcome. 

The increasing popularity of the "AMERICAN BANK" is clearly 
indicated by the magnitude of its deposits. 



HERMANN SCHMIDT 

500 E. BROAD STREET 





> 

^ 



The required ingredients for all the recipes in this hook can he 

purchased of us. 




A CENTURY DEMOTED TO 

ESTABLISHED 1804. 

DIXIE SOAP WORKS, 

For the FAMILY and LAUNDRY service 




is recommended. We Guarantee New South Soap Strictly Pure, from fresh, 
clarified stock and high teste alkali ; is a borax soap, thoroughly saponified, 
and will not injure fabric in a laundry. We sell a single box to family. Try 
a box, put soap on shelf, better for age. We feel confident you will find the 
cost money well expended. 

Mail address No. 117 N. 17th Street. 

P. J. CREW & COMPANY, 

FACTORIES: 113, 115, 117 and 1309-11-13-15 
North 17th Street. 



A 



SOAPS FOR SOUTHERN HOMES 







