THE 



HYGEIA COOK BOOK 



Cooking for flealtf). 



Mary A. Heard, D.O 



^ 



BOSTON, MASS. 

Press of The South End Industrial School 

1905 



UBRARY of C0116RESS 
fwu Copies rtectitv<^ 

MAR 3 1905 

^^ ^ XXc Na 
COPY B. 



'^ 
V 



A^.p?' 



\X' 



Copyright, 1905 
Mary A. Heard, D.O. 



INTRODUCTION, 



One of the chief ailments of mankind is indigestion, with its 
kindred ills, especially flatulence. To avoid this, one must needs eat 
food which will digest easily, and not be retained in the stomach long 
enough to ferment. If food is agreeable in taste and varied in charac- 
ter it is more readily assimilated by the system. 

The word diet does not convey a pleasant idea, — it brings to mind 
food that is good for us, but not palatable. In this collection we have 
endeavored to have a variety of recipes of foods that are good for us, 
and at the same time tasty and appetizing. All foods of a fermenting 
nature have been eliminated, so far as possible ; but we must bear in 
mind that a weakened stomach will not be able to digest certain articles 
of food, with wtiich a healthy stomach would have no difficulty. 

Almost any food left too long in a moist, warm receptacle, like 
the human stomach, will ferment; hence the necessity of eating food 
which will digest easily. A food which is the product of fermentation, 
such as yeast-raised bread, and which still contains the yeast germs, 
will continue to ferment and produce carbonic acid gas as soon as it 
reaches the medium of the stomach. The yeast may be killed in the 
crust of the loaf of bread by baking, but it is still active in the crumb, 
even of stale bread, although it may be killed by long toasting. 
Bread raised by chemicals (soda and cream of tartar) should not be 
eaten, as it still contains the chemicals, which are injurious to the 
delicate lining of the digestive tract. 

The foregoing paragraph explains why one should use only air 
or egg for making bread and cake light. Air- or egg-raised bread or 
cake will not ferment in the stomach. Vinegar, being also a product 
of fermentation, is debarred, lemon juice, a fruit acid, taking its place. 



iv INTRODUCTION 



Meat and fish are excluded from these recipes because both are 
already on the way to disintegration ; in other words, they are dead, 
and incapable of feeding mankind ; we cannot get life from death. 

In vegetables, grain, eggs, fruits, and nuts we have stored-up life ; 
under proper conditions each will produce life. These are genuine 
foods, and will build strong bodies for those who eat them. The 
gladiators of ancient times, noted for their great strength, lived 
principally on barley bread. The animals which are the strongest, 
swiftest, and of greatest endurance, are herbivorous. In modern 
times, in tests of strength and endurance, where vegetarians and men 
who live on a mixed diet have been pitted against each other, the 
former have made the best records. Meat, acting as stimulant, gives 
temporary strength only ; for lasting strength one must go to the 
vegetable kingdom. 

Beans, carrots, parsnips, and foods of this nature require strong 
digestive power ; one with weak digestion should choose dishes made 
with milk, eggs, grains and fruit, and avoid other foods till the 
digestion becomes stronger. 

Avoid too great a variety at one meal, for many times it is the 
combination eaten which causes fermentation, not any one article ; 
also the amount of food eaten. It is not what we eat, but what we 
assimilate, which builds up the body. 

We need a certain proportion of strength-giving, heat-producing 
and fat-making foods to make a well-balanced meal. Proteid gives 
muscle and strength, and is found in beans, peas, lentils, cereals, nuts, 
milk and the white of &%%. Fats and carbo-hydrates give heat and 
energy, and are found in butter, nuts, milk, yolk of ^%'g, cereals, and 
sweet fruits. From vegetables and fruits we get salts and extractives, 
and water in a pure organic form. Fruit should form a portion of each 
meal, and preferably should be eaten first. 

All food which is cooked at all should be well cooked, — this rend- 
ers it easier of digestion. In starchy food, longer exposure to heat 
more effectually breaks the starch granules; and in vegetables, long 
cooking brings them to a more digestible stage. 



INTRODUCTION. 



The water in which vegetables are cooked contains the salts of 
the vegetable, they being soluble; these salts are in a form readily 
assimilated by man, and necessary to his health ; therefore never 
throw away the water in which vegetables are boiled, — either boil it 
away, or use it for soup. 

Where vegetables are thus conservatively cooked, their own salts 
being retained, mineral salt (chloride of sodium, the ordinary salt of 
domestic use) will be less missed than when the water containing the 
vegetable salts is thrown away. After a time of total abstinence from 
mineral salt the natural flavor of the food wall be found, and we shall 
get the real taste of food, which had heretofore been hidden by the 
salt. A little lemon juice often will give a salt taste to food. 

Inorganic salt cannot be assimilated by the human organism, 
therefore not being a food, it is excluded from these recipes. It must 
be eliminated from all food before the food can be acted upon by the 
stomach ; and thus it puts an unnecessary tax upon the digestive 
powers. That salt is an absolute necessity to keep the body in health 
is an undisputed fact, but it must be organic, not inorganic, salt. 

For drinking purposes use either distilled or boiled water ; when 
water is used for cooking, use distilled or boiled water. 

Spices and condiments are not easy of digestion, and should be 
avoided, or used sparingly, especially ground clove. 

Frozen desserts, such as sherbet and ice cream, are refreshing in 
warm weather, and will do no harm if eaten in moderation, and slowly, 
allowing them to melt in the mouth. 

A number of recipes included in this collection were taken from 
"The Boston Cook Book," by kind permission of Mrs. Lincoln. 
This most excellent book should be in the possession of every house- 
keeper ; it contains very valuable information. 



M. A. H. 



vi THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 



DIRECTIONS. 



The cup used in measuring is a tin half-pint cup divided into 
thirds and quarters. 

The tablespoonful means that the contents of spoon should round 
up in same degree that the spoon rounds under. Half a spoonful is 
measured by levelling the spoonful with a knife \ a quarter spoonful 
by halving the half spoonful. This applies to any sized spoon. 

Tbsp. stands for tablespoon, 
tsp. " " teaspoon, 

hp. " " heaping. 

In all rules for unleavened bread, whether made light with o^^'g or 
air, an amount of beating is necessary to insure greater lightness. 

In almost all cases where ^gg is used, and the yolk and white beaten 
separately, it is best to beat the whites stiff, then drop the 3'olks in, 
one at a time, beating well between ; this renders the bread or cake 
more tender. 

In thickening soups or sauces melt butter in pan, and stir in 
flour dry, mixing till there are no lumps, then add hot liquid slowly, 
stirring all the time ; if it should lump, let it boil hard, and beat it at 
the same time, till the mixture is smooth. There should be sufficient 
butter to moisten the flour so the whole is liquid before adding the 
stock. If too much butter is used it will not be absorbed by the flour, 
but will rise to the top and make the dish greasy and indigestible. 

The madeira cake may be taken as a basis for butter cake, the 
sponge cake as a basis for Qg^% cake, and many variations made of 
either b)- the addition of raisins, currants, citron, spices, etc. The 
cake made without butter will be more porous and contain larger air 
spaces than that with butter, but will dry sooner. 

The gem pan of cast iron, flat on the bottom, may be bought at 
Walker's Kitchen Furnishing store on Cornhill, Boston, There are 
various styles, but the one containing the twelve little pans is the best. 

M. A. H. 



THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 



SOUPS 



LENTIL SOUP. 

2 cups lentils 1^ Tbsp. butter 

4 " water 2 " flour 

Pick over, wash lentils, and soak over night in the water. 
Boil three or four hours, adding water to keep the same amount. 
Mash all through strainer. There should be four cups after 
straining. Melt butter in saucepan, add flour, mix well, then 
add hot lentils slowly, stirring well until it thickens. After 
all is mixed together let boil up thoroughly. 

PEA SOUP. 

Same proportion and method as lentil soup. 

BAKED BEAN SOUP. 

3 cups cold baked beans 1^ Tbsp. butter 

3 " water 2 " flour 

Boil a few minutes, mash through strainer. Melt butter 
in saucepan, add flour, and mix well. Pour in hot beans 
slowly, beating thoroughly. Boil up, and serve. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP. 

1 cup turtle soup beans 1^ Tbsp. butter 

2 Tbsp. flour 

Soak beans over night in plenty of water, cook six hours 
or more till tender ; mash all through strainer ; there should 
be five cups after straining. Thicken by same method as in 
lentil soup. 



THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 



CABBAGE SOUP. 

5 lb. cabbage 1 cup hot milk 

3 qts. water \\ Tbsp. butter 

2^ Tbsp. flour 

Wash cabbage and cut into shreds. Add three quarts water 
and boil three hours. Drain off water and boil till reduced to 
three cups ; add milk. Melt butter in saucepan, add flour and 
mix well. Then add hot cabbage water slowly, stirring well. 
Boil up, and serve. 

SPINACH SOUP. 

4 cups spinach water 2 Tbsp. butter 

2 " milk 3 " flour 

Have four cups of water left after boiling one peck of 
spinach. Melt butter in saucepan, add flour, mix well, then 
add hot liquid gradually, stirring well. Boil up, and serve. 

CELERY SOUP. 

Boil two heads of celery till tender ; drain off water, which 
should be four cups. Follow method and proportion as given 
in spinach soup, using two cups of milk. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

2 turnips 1 onion 

2 carrots 2 potatoes 

2 parsnips w^ater to cover 

Cut potatoes in one-quarter inch dice, slice other vegetables. 
Boil all together three hours or more. Strain ; there should 
be four cups of liquid. Follow method and proportion as 
given in spinach soup. If desired, use two cups of milk ad- 
ditional to the vegetable water. 



THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 



POTATO SOUP. 

3 medium sized potatoes little pepper 

1 pint milk \ Tbsp. butter 

1 small ouiou \ " flour 

Boil potatoes and onion together. When done, drain, 
shake dry, mash, add hot milk, and mash through strainer. 
Melt butter in saucepan, add flour, then hot mixture slowly. 
Allow all to boil up thoroughl}^, and serve. 

This rule can be varied by adding a little chopped parsley, 
or a little celery or celery salt. If liked richer, a beaten ^%% 
may be added just before serving. Do not boil after ^%% 
goes in. 

POTATO CHOWDER. 

large potatoes little pepper 
\ onion 1 Tbsp. butter 

1 pt. milk 1 tsp. flour 

Slice potatoes and onions one-quarter inch thick, boil till 
tender in one cup water. Make white sauce of milk, butter, 
and flour, and add to potatoes. Be careful not to break the 
potatoes. Serve with croutons or crackers. The crackers 
may be added in tureen before serving. 

CORN SOUP. 

1 can corn little pepper 

4 cups milk l.Tbsp. flour 

1 Tbsp. butter 1 ^%% 

Cook corn and milk together ten minutes. Melt butter in 
another saucepan, add flour and pepper, then hot milk and 
corn gradually as it thickens, boil up well, strain to remove 
corn. Press all that you can through strainer. Return to 
fire, add well-beaten ^%%, and let come to a boil. 



THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK 



ONION SOUP. 

3 large onions - Tbsp. butter 

2 cups hot milk \ " flour 

\ " cold milk yolks of two eggs 

Slice onion and fry slowly one-half hour in butter, add 
flour, and cook three minutes, stirring constantly ; ad-d hot 
milk, cook fifteen minutes, strain, and return to fire ; add the 
^%'g yolks and cold milk beaten together. Boil up and serve. 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP. 

(Mrs. Lincoln's Boston Cook Book.) 

1^ cups hot tomato \\ Tbsp. flour 

2\ '' hot milk 1 " butter 

Heat tomato and strain ; melt butter in saucepan, add 
flour, then hot milk slowly. When thickened and smooth 
add tomato, and serve with croutons, or crackers. Do not 
boil after adding tomato. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

(Mrs. Lincoln's Boston Cook Book.) 

2 cups stewed tomato 6 peppercorns 

1 cup hot water \ Tbsp. butter 
1^ Tbsp. sugar \ " flour 

2 cloves \ " chopped onion 

Put tomato, water, sugar, cloves, and peppercorns on to 
boil. Fry the onion in butter ten minutes ; add flour. When 
well mixed stir into tomato and simmer ten minutes. Strain, 
and serve with croutons. 

CROUTONS. 

Butter thick slices of bread, cut them in one-half inch 
cubes and brown in hot oven. Be careful they do not scorch. 



THE HYGEIA COOK ROOK. 



EGGS. 

BOILED EGGS. 
Have water boiling in saucepan and boil eggs four min- 
utes, if yolks are liked soft. Boil twent}^ minutes for hard 
boiled eggs. The eggs will be hard boiled in less time, but 
the longer boiling renders them more digestible. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Beat four eggs lightly with a fork, add one-half cup milk, 

dust of pepper ; have omelet pan hot. Put in one-half Tbsp. 

butter. When melted (do not allow it to brown) turn in 

eggs. As they set, scrape from bottom of pan, allowing the 

liquid ^%% to come to the heat. When all is set turn out on 

buttered toast. Done this way the eggs are smooth and 

creamy. 

FRIED EGGS. 

Break each ^%% into a cup, have an omelet pan hot, with 
a small piece of melted butter in it. Pour eggs in carefully 
to avoid breaking yolks. Cover pan and cook slowly ; or dip 
melted butter over as they cook. 

BAKED EGGS. 

1. Break each ^%% into a small earthen cup ; put a small 
piece of butter and a dust of pepper on each. Place the cups 
in a pan of hot water and bake in moderate oven till whites 
are set. This will take about fifteen minutes. 

2. Beat whites stiff. Have as many slices of toasted 
bread as there are eggs. Arrange whites in a circle on each 
slice of toast, drop ^'g'g yolk in center, and bake in moderate 
oven till white is well browned. 



777^ HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 



DROPPED EGGS. 

Break each ^^g into a cup. Have an omelet pan with 
boiling water one inch deep. Drop eggs in carefulh' and 
keep water boiling gently until whites of eggs are set. Take 
out with a skimmer and ser\-e on toast. 

OMELET. 

(Mrs. Lincoln's Boston Cook Book.) 

Beat yolks of two eggs until thick ; add two Tbsp. milk 
and the whites of two eggs beaten stiff. Fold all lightly to- 
gether (the mixture should be thick, no moisture to be seen) 
and turn into hot buttered omelet pan. Spread evenly, cover 
and cook slowly till brown underneath and puffed up. It is 
done when a knife inserted in center comes out clean. Fold 
over and serve at once on hot platter. Cheese omelet is made 
by adding one-half cup of grated cheese before putting in pan. 

EGG VERMICELLI. 

(Mrs. Lincoln's Boston Cook Book.) 

Boil three eggs twenty minutes. When cold separate 
whites from yolks and mash whites fine with a fork. Make 
one cup of white sauce with one cup milk, one tsp. butter, 
one heaping tsp. flour, dust of pepper. Stir the whites into 
sauce, heat, and pour over four slices of buttered toast. Press 
yolks through ricer over these, and garnish with parsley. 

STUFFED EGGS. 

Boil three eggs tu'enty minutes. Cut in halves, remove 
yolks ; be careful not to break the whites. Mix yolks with 
salad dressing, fill the whites with this mixture, and place the 
two halves together to make whole eggs, or leave as half 
eggs. Serve on lettuce leaves, and if desired, with extra 
salad dressing. 



THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK 



SAVORIES. 



LENTIL CROQUETTES. 

1 cup lentils 1 onion 

■g- " stewed tomatoes -J- tsp. mixed herbs 

1 &^g i lemon 

i Tbsp. butter 

Soak lentils over night ; boil lentils, onion, tomato, and 
herbs together till lentils are soft, using as little water as 
possible. Put all through sieve and return to fire. Stir con- 
stanth' till thick, then add butter, lemon juice, and one-half 
of &gg. This should be stiff enough when cold to shape. 
Roll in the remainder of ^gg and then in crumbs. Fry in 
deep fat till brown. Serve piled around mashed potato. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

One-fourth cup of rice cooked in milk till soft. It must 
absorb all the milk. Cool, add one-half &gg, little cayenne 
pepper and lemon juice, one-fourth cup of English walnuts 
ground fine. Shape, roll in crumbs and eggs, and fry in 
kettle of oil. 

RICE AND TOMATO ESCALLOPED. 

1^ cup boiled rice 1 Tbsp. sugar 

1 " hot tomato little pepper 

i " crumbs 2 Tbsp. butter 

Strain the hot tomato and mix with sugar, pepper, and 
one Tbsp. butter ; mash rice fine and mix thoroughly with 
tomato. Moisten crumbs with the remainder of butter, and 
spread over the top. Bake one-half hour. 



THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 



BAKED MACARONI. 

One cup of macaroni broken in inch pieces, boil till tender 
in plenty of water ; drain in sieve and pour cold water through 
to prevent adherino^ together. Make a white sauce of two cups 
of milk, one Tbsp, butter, one Tbsp. flour ; mix with macaroni. 
Put all together in baking dish and bake one-half hour, or 
until browned. 

BAKED MACARONI WITH TOMATO. 

Boil macaroni^ as in preceding. Make sauce of one and 
one-fourth cups milk, one Tbsp. butter, one Tbsp. flour ; boil 
up ; then take from the fire and add three-fourths cup strained 
cooked tomatoes and one tsp. sugar, little pepper if desired. 
Mix with macaroni and bake one-half hour. 

CHESTNUTS A LA MAITRE D' HOTEL. 

''^^ imported chestnuts 1 ^<g% yolk 

\\ cup hot milk 1 Tbsp. butter 

2 cups boiled rice 1 tsp. flour 

Boil chestnuts one-half hour { be sure there are no wormy or 
imperfect ones), take off shells and skins and cut the meat up 
fine. Melt butter in frying-pan and stir in chopped chestnuts, 
cooking all together for five minutes. Then add flour and 
mix well ; pour the milk in slowly, stirring as it thickens ; 
when well cooked add the beaten yolk. Do not cook after ^%% 
is added. Serve in border made of the rice. 

MOCK OYSTERS. 

'1 cups grated corn 2 Tbsp. flour 

2 eggs little pepper 

Mix flour and pepper with corn, add eggs well beaten. 
Fry in small cakes on well buttered griddle. Brown well on 
each side. 



THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 



BREAD OMELET. 

1 cup bread crumbs w Tbsp. chopped parsley 

\ onion, chopped 1 ^%% beaten 

little pepper 

Mix all ingredients together; if too dry add a little milk. 
Have omelet pan hot, with one Tbsp. melted butter in it. Pour 
in and cook fifteen minutes, covered on stove. Fold and 
serve on hot platter. Or bake one-half hour, till puffed up 
and brown. 

BAKED BEANS. 

Pick over two cups of beans and soak over night in plenty 
of water ; in the morning put in bean pot, cover w4th the same 
water in which they were soaked ; if there is too much, keep it 
to add to beans as the}^ become dry. 

Bake all da}-, keeping water level with top of beans. After 
they have baked three hours lay two Tbsp. of butter on top. 
It will melt and mix all through. 



lO THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 



SAUCES, 



CRANBERRY JELLY. 

1 qt. cranberries 2 cups boiling water 

2 cups sugar 

Stew cranberries till soft, then mash through strainer. 
Add sugar and return to fire, boil three minutes. Serve cold 
with dinner. 

BAKED APPLES. 

Wash and wipe sound apples, sweet or sour, cut out blos- 
som end and put them in granite or porcelain baking dish 
(never use tin). Put about a teaspoonful of sugar on each 
apple, and bake in moderate oven three hours or more for sour 
apples, twice that time for sweet apples, adding water if neces- 
sary. If apples get too brown turn them over. There should 
be a half inch of moisture in dish when apples are done. 

Or core sour apples, fill the cores with sugar mixed with 
nutmeg, following above directions for baking. 

APPLE SAUCE. 
6 apples \ cup sugar 2 cups water 

Have water and sugar boiling ; add pared and quartered 
apples ; let them come to a boil, then simmer till apples are 
tender ; do not stir. • Some apples will retain their shape, 
others will cook to pieces. If there are hard places in apples 
put the sauce through a strainer. 

A quince pared and cut in small pieces, or a stick of cin- 
namon cooked in apple sauce, makes a variety. 



THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. n 



VEGETABLES, 



PLAIN BOILED POTATOES. 

Scrub the skin clean, pare thin, cutting out all the e^'es and 
imperfections ; cut in halves or quarters. Have water boiling 
hot when potatoes are put in, and cook until a fork pierces 
them easily. Drain thoroughly, and shake over fire or in 
draft of air till they are mealy. Cover with napkin and keep 
hot till ready to serve. Never cover potatoes with tight cover, 
as steam will collect and make them soggy. 

MASHED POTATO. 

Cook as directed for plain boiled potatoes. Then mash 
until there are no lumps to be seen and potato leaves masher 
clean. Add a little milk or cream and a piece of butter the 
size of a walnut for three potatoes. Beat thoroughly with 
silver fork, reheat and pile lightly in serving dish. 

RICED POTATO. 

Press plain boiled potato through ricer, keep dish in hot 
place till ready to serve. 

CREAMED POTATO. 
I. This dish may be made of cooked or raw potatoes. 
Cut potatoes in dice, cover with hot milk, add a small piece 
of butter and a teaspoon of chopped onion. Cook on top of 
stove one-half hour to an hour. Stir occasionally with knife 
to prevent sticking to bottom of dish, and be careful not to 
break potato. A fire-proof bowl is best for this. Especially 
nice made of cold baked potatoes. 



12 THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 

2. One cup raw potatoes cut in one-half inch dice, cook 
seven minutes in boiling water, drain, set saucepan on back 
of stov^, pour over one-fourth cup of melted butter ; cover, 
and let stand fifteen minutes. Make a white sauce of one- 
half cup milk, one-half Tbsp. butter, one Tbsp. flour; add 
beaten yolk of one ^%'g, a little onion juice, a dash of cayenne 
pepper ; pour over potatoes and serve. 

ESCALLOPED POTATO. 
Cut three raw^ potatoes in one-quarter inch dice pieces and 
put in three-pint baking dish ; make one cup white sauce, 
pour over potato, and mix potato with sauce. Moisten one- 
half cup dry bread or cracker crumbs with one Tbsp. melted 
butter. Spread this over the potatoes and bake one hour in 
moderate oven. 

POTATO LYONAISE. 

Cut one pint of cold boiled potato into dice, fry one scant 
Tbsp. of chopped onion in heaping Tbsp. butter till yellow, 
add potatoes, and stir with a fork till they have absorbed all 
the butter, being careful not to break the dice. Add one 
Tbsp. chopped parsley, and one Tbsp. lemon juice. Serve hot. 

FRIED POTATO. 
Use butter or vegetable oil for frying. Cut cold boiled 
potatoes in slices, fry till brown on one side, then turn and 
brown other side. 

Or cut cold boiled potatoes in small pieces, put in frying- 
pan, over moderate fire, with fat, and stir occasionally till hot 
and browned. 

POTATO SOUFFLE. 

One cup mashed potato, add Tbsp. butter, Tbsp. cream, 
one ^%% \Q)\\i beaten light ; beat all together till light and 
smooth. Beat white of ^%% stiff and fold in. Bake in but- 
tered pudding dish ten minutes, or till puffed and brown. 



THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK, 



POTATO CHIPS. 

Pare potatoes aud slice thin as possible, using knife or 
vegetable cutter. Soak in cold water one-half hour. Dry 
pieces with a towel and drop singl}- into hot fat. Fr}- till 
brown, take out with skimmer, drain on paper, and serve 
at once while crisp. 

SPINACH. 

Pick over and reject any yellow or tough leaves, cut off 
roots aud large stems, wash thoroughly in a number of waters 
till all grit is removed. Cook twenty minutes to two hours, 
till tender, using very little water in cooking, as spinach is 
very succulent. When the spinach is done, drain thoroughly, 
chop fine, season with butter, and reheat before serving. Save 
the water in which it w^as cooked for soup. There should be 
a quart of water from a peck of spinach. 

If you use a steam cooker put spinach on lower strainer 
and use water from cold water faucet in boiler underneath. 
The juice of the spinach will drip into this water, which can 
be used for soup. 

CABBAGE. 

Wash cabbage, cut in quarters, boil or steam two hours 
or more, till tender. vSeason with butter. 

Ci^eavicd — Cut boiled cabbage in small pieces, allow one 
cup of white sauce to one cup of cabbage. 

Scalloped — Two cups of creamed cabbage in baking dish, 
cover with one-half cup of cracker crumbs moistened with 
one Tbsp. butter, bake one-half hour. 

CAULIFLOWER. 
Cut head away from leaves, and boil or steam whole, or 
pulled apart in sections. Allow one hour or more for cooking. 
Season with butter. It may be creamed or scalloped the 
same as cabbag^e. 



14 THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 

SQUASH. 

Squash may be boiled or steamed with the rind left on. 

Allow one hour for either way. If too moist w^hen done and 

scraped from rind, put in a pan in oven, or on stove, and dry 

out moisture. 

BAKED SQUASH. 

Cut Hubbard squash in pieces, place rind down in tin pan, 
cover tight, bake one hour or more in oven suitable for bak- 
ing bread. Scrape from rind and season to taste. 

ONIONS, PLAIN BOILED. 

Hold onions under water while paring and eyes will not 
be affected. Cut the onions in halves across the grain, put 
on in cold water and boil in same water till tender, allowing 
it to boil quite away. If desired, a small amount of milk may 
be added and boiled away. Season with ])utter. 

CREAMED ONIONS. 
Cut up one cup onions after peeling, boil one-half hour in 
little water. Make a sauce from water left from boiling onions 
with milk enough to make a cup. Mix with onions. 

ESCALLOPED ONIONS. 

Put two cups of creamed onions in baking dish, moisten 
one-half cup of bread or cracker crumbs in one Tbsp. of but- 
ter, spread over onions and bake one-half hour or till browned. 

FRIED ONIONS. 
Slice raw onions round, so they form little rings ; fry in 
hot butter in pan till well browned ; drain on brown paper and 
serve while crisp. 

SALSIFY, or OYSTER PLANT. 
Scrape, wash, and cut in small pieces, and boil until tender, 
which takes about one-half hour. Serve in cream sauce, 
allowing one cup of sauce to one of salsify. 



THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 



BOILED PARSNIPS. 

Scrape off brown skin, wash well, make two cuts part wa}^ 
through across each other, and boil until thoroughly soft — 
two hours or more — letting the water boil quite away. 
Season with butter. 

CREAMED PARSNIPS. 

Cut raw parsnips in slices about one-fourth inch or less in 
thickness. Cook till tender and serve in white sauce. If 
there is any water left from the parsnips use it as a part of 
the liquid for the sauce. For one cup of cooked parsnip 
allow one cup of white sauce. 

ESCALLOPED PARSNIPS. 

Put two cups of creamed parsnips in baking dish, moisten 
one-half cup cracker crumbs in one-fourth cup melted butter. 
Spread this over the parsnips and bake one-half hour, or till 
browned. 

FRIED PARSNIPS. 

a. Cut cold boiled parsnips in slices, roll in beaten ^%%. 
then in cracker crumbs, fry in butter in frying-pan till a 
golden brown ; turn and brown other side. 

b. Put one Tbsp. butter and one Tbsp. molasses in frying- 
pan ; when hot lay slices of cold boiled parsnips in pan and 
fry till brown on either side. 

CARROTS. 

Plain boiled, creamed, and escalloped. Follow directions 
for parsnips. 

FRIED GREEN TOMATOES. 

Cut off outer slices, cut remainder in slices one-half inch 
thick, roll in flour and fry in butter. Shake a dust of pepper 
over them. Tastes like ^'g'g plant. 



1 5 THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Scald and peel tomatoes enough to fill a quart measure 

when cut up, boil one-half hour, or till cooked all to pieces. 

Season with one Tbsp. butter, one Tbsp. sugar, and a little 

pepper. 

ESCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Put one pint of stewed tomatoes, seasoned, in a baking- 
dish. Moisten one-half cup cracker crumbs in one Tbsp. 
melted butter, spread over tomatoes, and bake one-half hour, 
or till well browned. 

BAKED STUFFED TOMATOES. 
Cut out stem and hard piece attached, fill hollow with 
crumbs moistened with butter. Bake one-half hour in oven 
not hot enough to scorch tomatoes. 

BROILED TOMATOES. 

Choose smooth, medium sized tomatoes, wash and wipe 

dry, cut in halves across. Butter broiler and cook over 

moderate fire, placing cut .side down at first ; turn, and cook 

other side. Serve on platter with a piece of butter on each 

piece. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Shell peas and put them in double boiler with a piece of 
butter, no water, and cook one hour or till tender. They are 
delicious cooked this wa}- in their own juice. 

They may be boiled in a pan with very little water. — 
twenty minutes should be sufficient time to make them tender ; 
long cooking only renders them tough. 

Peas should be fresh picked ; they lose their sweet taste 

if allowed to wilt. 

SWEET CORN. 

Boil in a small amount of water five to twenty minutes, or 
till milk is set. Try with a fork. The ears will cook quicker 
if turned after boiling five minutes. 



THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 



LIMA OR SIEVA BEANS. 
Fresh beans will cook in one hour ; the dried beans should 
be soaked over night and cooked till tender, one to three 
hours. 

PLAIN BARLEY. 

Put one- half cup of pearl barley in a small saucepan with 
a tight-fitting cover, use enough cold water to cover barley, 
let it come to a boil, then reduce heat so it simmers, keep 
adding water as the barley swells. Cook two hours or more ; 
when done the water should all be absorbed. Use as a vege- 
table, or for a breakfast or supper dish. Very nourishing 
and delicate. 



THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 



SALADS 



SALAD DRESSING. 
1 ^^^ \ tsp. mustard 1 Tbsp. sugar 

1 cup cream i cup lemon juice 1^ " flour 

speck of cayenne pepper 
BeaUwhite of ^%% stiff, add yolk and beat, mix flour, sugar, 
mustard and pepper, and put through fine sieve and add ^%% 
to it ; pour hot cream over this, and cook in double boiler till 
thick ; add lemon juice slowh^ just before removing from the 
fire. If the salad is acid use more sugar in dressing. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Scald and peel three large, ripe tomatoes, slice thin, and 

chill. Slice one cucumber. Sen^e on lettuce leaves with 

dressing. 

EGG SALAD. 

3 eggs 1 head lettuce salad dressing 

Boil eggs twent}^ minutes, and cool. Cut up in small 
pieces. Arrange lettuce leaves on platter and put a spoonful 
of ^^'g in each leaf. Pour salad dressing over the eggs. 

APPLE AND CELERY SALAD. 
Cut up equal parts of apple and celery in small pieces just 
before serving, as apple turns dark on exposure to the air. 
Serve on lettuce leaves with salad dressing. 

POTATO SALAD. 

One and one-half cups boiled potato cut in one-quarter 
inch dice, two Tbsp. raw minced onion, two Tbsp. salad oil 
or melted butter, dust of pepper, lemon juice to taste. 

Mix a little cold boiled carrot or beet, cut in one-fourth 
inch dice to make a variety. 



THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 



19 



PUDDING SAUCES. 



HARD SAUCE. 

i cup butter 2 Tbsp. cream 

■^ " sugar ^ tsp. vanilla 

little nutmeg 

Cream butter, add sugar, beat till light, then add cream 
and vanilla. Mix well, heap up on serving dish, making top 
look rough, and grate nutmeg over it. 

PLAIN HOT SAUCE. 

1 cup brown sugar 1 Tbsp. butter 

1 Tbsp. flour 1:^^ cup boiling water 

\ tsp. vanilla 

Rub butter, sugar, and flour together, pour boiling water 
over, and cook three minutes. Flavor. May be made w4th 
white sugar. 

SIMPLE SAUCE. 
1 cup sugar ^ cup water 

Boil together fifteen minutes, not too hard, or it will 
crystalize. 

MAPLE SYRUP SAUCE. 

1 cup maple syrup 1 tsp. flour 

i cup butter \ nutmeg 

Rub butter, flour, and nutmeg together, pour hot syrup 
over, return to fire and boil three minutes. 



20 THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 

MOLASSES SAUCE. 

1 cup molasses 1 tsp. flour 

1 Tbsp. butter nutmeg, cinnamon or ginger 

Rub butter, flour, and one of the spices together, pour hot 
molasses over, return to fire and boil three minutes. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

\ cup butter 1 lemon 

1 " sugar 1 Tbsp. corn starch 

1 ^%% 1 cup boiling water 

Cream butter, sugar, and corn starch together, add grated 
rind and juice of lemon, and beaten ^%%, pour boiling water 
over slowlv, cook five minutes in double boiler. 



THE HYCEIA COOK BOOK 



HOT PUDDINGS. 



HASTY PUDDING. 
h cups boiling water 1 Tbsp. flour 

1 cup cold water 1 cup cornmeal 

Mix meal and flour, wet with cold water ; stir this into the 
boiling water slowl}^, and cook for one hour, just where it 
simmers. Eat hot with milk or syrup ; or pour into moulds, 
cool, slice, roll in flour and fry in frying-pan, with little fat, till 
well browned on one side ; turn and brown the other side. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

1 qt. milk 2 Tbsp. Indian meal 

1 ^^% 2 " molasses 

butter size of walnut 1 ' ' sugar 

Mix ^%%, meal, molasses, sugar and butter. Heat milk 
and pour over other ingredients slowly to prevent lumping. 
Cook in double boiler till it thickens, then put in baking dish 
and bake one to two hours in a mild oven. 

INDIAN TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

\ cup Indian meal f cup molasses 

\ ' ' minute tapioca 4 cups milk 

Mix molasses, meal, and tapioca ; heat milk, pour over the 
mixture. Put all in double boiler and stir till it thickens. 
Pour into buttered pudding dish, and bake one and one-half 
hours in a mild oven. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 
1 pt. milk 2 Tbsp. minute tapioca 

1 ^%% beaten 2 ' ' sugar 

Mix, bake thirty minutes, stir once or twice till it thickens, 
or it can be thickened in double boiler before baking. 



22 THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

One-half cup minute tapioca cooked in double boiler in 
water till transparent. Stew four good sized apples ; add 
these, with one-fourth cup of sugar, to tapioca, pour into 
pudding dish and bake one hour ; or it may be entirely 
cooked in double boiler. Serve hot with cream and sugar, 

PEACH TAPIOCA. 

One-half cup minute tapioca cooked in double boiler ten 
minutes in two cups of water. Add three cups of canned 
peaches, with juice, cutting peaches in quarters and leaving 
out stones. Cook one-half hour. Serve hot with cream. 

PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA. 

One-half cup of minute tapioca cooked in double boiler ten 

minutes in two cups of water ; add two cups chopped canned 

pineapple, with juice. Cook one-half hour. Serve with 

cream. If fresh pineapple is used stew it with sugar and 

water. 

BOILED RICE. 

Use one cup of rice to three cups of water. Cook over 
mild heat so the water simmers, and keep kettle covered. 
The rice will be dry and tender. If preferred, put rice and 
water in pail with tight-fitting lid, and steam in kettle of 
rapidly boiling water, or in steam cooker. Allow one -hour 
for cooking. Raisins may be added to make a variety. To 
be eaten with butter and sugar, milk, or any pudding sauce. 

COLD RICE PUDDING. 

li cups cold boiled rice \ cup sugar 

1 pt. milk 1 ^^^ 

little nutmeg 

Mash rice fine, beat ^'g%, add sugar and milk, mix with rice, 
and grate nutmeg over. Bake in moderate oven one hour. 



THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK 



23 



POOR MAN'S PUDDING. 
1 qt. milk 2 Tbsp. rice \ cup sugar 

Mix in pudding dish and bake in moderate oven three or 

four hours, stirring a number of times or it will crust over 

and get too brown. The pudding should be creamy when 

done. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Break one-half loaf of &%% digestive bread in small pieces ; 
soak over night in water to soften crust. Make a layer of 
bread over bottom of pudding dish, then a thick laj^er of 
seeded raisins, then another of bread. Beat one ^%% light, 
add one-half cup of sugar, one. pint of milk, one nutmeg, 
grated. Pour this gently over bread. Put bits of butter 
over the top, and bake one hour in moderate oven. To be 
eaten with hard sauce. 

SCOTTISH PUDDING. 
Make a syrup of two cups of water and one of sugar. Pare 
and quarter six apples and cook them in the syrup till tender, 
adding grated rind of one lemon to cooked apples. Melt two 
Tbsp. butter, mix with two cups rolled oats. Butter a pud- 
ding dish, put in a layer of oatmeal, then one of apple, another 
of oatmeal, another of apple, and a top layer of oatmeal. Bake 
or steam one-half to one hour. 

CORN STARCH PUDDING. 
3J cups hot milk 1 ^%% 

4 Tbsp. corn starch i cup cold milk 

1 tsp. vanilla 

Mix corn starch with cold milk, beat it%% and add to it. 
Stir this slowly into hot milk in double boiler, stirring con- 
stantly to prevent lumping. Cook fifteen minutes, flavor, and 
sen^e hot ; or it may be poured into moulds and served cold 
with sugar and cream. 



24 THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 



BANANA FRITTERS. 
2 eggs lemon juice 4 bananas 

T cup water 1 Tbsp. olive oil flour 

Beat yolks of eggs light, add water, oil, lemon juice, 
bananas sifted, flour to make drop batter, and whites of eggs 
beaten stiff ; fry in deep fat and serve with sugar sprinkled 
over or with sauce. 

Other fruit fritters may be made by same method ,; for 
orange fritters use orange juice instead of water. 



THE HYGEIA COOK HOOK. 



25 



COLD DESSERTS. 



IRISH MOSS BLANC MANGE. 

^ cup Irish Moss 1 qt. milk 

1 " water 1 tsp. vanilla 

Pick over, wash moss, and soak till softened. Cook moss 
in water till ver}^ soft and gelatinous, strain and add boiling 
milk slowly, stirring constant^. Return to double boiler and 
cook till a little hardens when dropped on cool plate. Flavor 
and pour into moulds. To be served cold with cream and 
sugar. 

LEMON BLANC MANGE. 

2 eggs 2 cups water 

1 cup sugar juice and rind of 1 lemon 

heaping Tbsp. corn starch 

Mix corn starch with water, add sugar and lemon, and 
cook twenty minutes in double boiler, add well beaten yolks 
of eggs ; cook one minute and set away to cool. Serve very 
cold in little cups with whites of eggs, beaten stiff, on top. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

\\ qts. boiling water 4 Tbsp. corn starch 

2 oz. chocolate 3 '' sugar 

1 cup milk 

Scrape chocolate, add it, with sugar, to boiling water and 
cook till dissolved. Wet the corn starch with the milk, pour 
into hot chocolate and cook five minutes, stirring constantly. 
To be eaten cold with sugar and milk. It is not stiff enough 
to mould. 



26 THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 

COFFEE JELLY. 

4 cups boiling water 4 Tbsp. sugar 

3 Tbsp. (heaping) coffee 4 " minute tapioca 

Steep coffee in water on stove ten minutes, do not boil. 
Strain through cloth into double boiler, add tapioca and 
sugar. Cook fifteen minutes to one-half hour, stirring often. 
Beat thoroughly before pouring into dish. Serve with whipped 
cream, sweetened and flavored. 

STEWED FIGS. 

\ lb. figs 1 lemon 

\\ cups water \ cup sugar 

1. The figs, which should be square ones, must be well 
washed, put them with the sugar and thin yellow peel of lemon 
in a covered saucepan with the water and simmer two hours. 
Take from the stove and add lemon juice. 

2. Pour boiling water over square figs, or the kind which 
comes in sacks (not layer figs) ; let stand on wann stove, but 
do not boil, till the skins are tender. Pour off water and serve 
with a little powdered sugar sprinkled over. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 

3 eggs i cup sugar 

2 cups hot milk 1 tsp. vanilla 

Beat ^<g% yolks, add sugar, then pour hot milk over all, 
mixing well. Cook in double boiler, stirring constantly till 
custard coats spoon. Be careful not to cook too much. Set 
dish containing custard in pan of cold water, and stir until it 
is moderately cool. Before serving beat whites stiff and mix 
with custard ; or serve custard in glasses with white on top, 
or in a glass dish with white dropped in spoonful over it. 



THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 27 



FLUMMERY. 

Slice stale sponge cake, arrange in dish and pour warm 
boiled custard over, making sure that all cake becomes soaked. 
Serve cold. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

2 eggs \ cup sugar 

2 cups milk little nutmeg 

•Beat eggs, add sugar and milk, bake in cups or pudding 
dish set in pan of water in moderate oven. Grate nutmeg 
over before baking. It is done when knife comes out clean. 



CARAMEL CUSTARD. 

2 cups milk \ cup sugar 

2 eggs \ tsp. vanilla 

Melt sugar in spider, stir till brown, add one cup milk and 
stir constantly over fire till dissolved. Pour this over beaten 
eggs, add remainder of milk and flavoring. Bake in dish set 
in water in slow oven. 

Or use three eggs and cook like boiled custard, after cara- 
mel is added. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

2 Tbsp. minute tapioca i cup sugar 

2 cups milk \ tsp. vanilla 

Cook tapioca and milk together in double boiler twenty 
minutes; beat &%% yolk, add sugar to it, and pour hot milk 
over, return to double boiler and cook till it thickens, stirring 
constantly ; cool in a dish of water, and then add beaten 
white of ^^'g and flavoring. 



28 THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 



PIES, 



PASTRY. 

1 cup flour I cup butter 

Rub butter into flour, mix stiff with cold water, cut iu 
two pieces, roll one-half for under crust ; roll the other piece, 
spread with butter, dredge flour over, roll up, stand roll on 
end and press it down. Roll out for upper crust. 

APPLE PIE. 
Pare and slice tart juicy apples, and fill plate. Sprinkle 
over one-half cup sugar in which a little cinnamon has been 
mixed, or a little caraway seed may be used instead. Bind 
pie with wet strip of cloth to prevent running out. Make of 
stewed and sweetened apples if preferred. 

APPLE DOWDY. 

Fill a pudding dish with sliced apple, sprinkle over one- 
half cup sugar, add water if apples are dry. Bake with upper 
crust only. 

CUSTARD PIE. 
3 eggs i cup sugar 

2 cups milk little nutmeg 
Beat eggs, add sugar and milk ; bake in moderate oven. 

SQUASH PIE. 
1^ cup steamed and sifted squash (a dry one) 
1 cup boiling milk \ cup sugar 

1 ^%% little ginger 

Mix squash, ^%%^ sugar and ginger together, then add 
hot milk. 



7HE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 29 



CRANBERRY PIE. 

1. Stew two cups cranberries in one cup water till tender, 
mash through siev^e. x\dd one cup sugar and cook three min- 
utes. Fill pie and lay strips across for upper crust. 

2. 1 cup chopped cranberries \ tsp. vanilla 

T cup sugar 1 Tbsp. cornstarch 

i Tbsp. molasses 1 cup boiling water 

Dissolve cornstarch in little cold water, then pour on 
boiling water, mix all together and bake with upper crust. 

LEMON PIE. 

f cup sugar 1 lemon 

1 hp. Tbsp. flour \ Tbsp. butter 

2 eggs 1 cup boiling water 

Mix sugar with flour, add to beaten yolks of eggs, then 
add grated rind and juice of lemon and butter. Pour on boil- 
ing water and cook till it thickens, fill pie, bake. Then frost 
with the whites of the two eggs beaten stiff, and two Tbsp. 
powdered sugar. Return to oven to brown. 

MINCE PIE. 

4 qts. quartered apples 4 cups brown sugar 

1 lb, raisins 1 cup molasses 

1 lb. currants \\ Tbsp. cinnamon 

6 cups water 1 tsp. mace 

3 lemons i tsp. ground clove 

2 nutmegs 

Cut out cores and blossom end of apples and chop (with 
skins on) quite fine. Wash raisins and seed them, wash 
currants and cook together one-half hour in saucepan with 
four cups of water. Grate rind from lemons, and add it with 
lemon juice to the fruit, then mix all ingredients together 
and cook four or five hours, stirring often. If too dry add 
water. This may be put up in glass jars while hot and 
sealed; will keep a long time. Put a little butter over alter 
filling pie. 



30 THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 



SHERBETS 



MILK SHERBET. 

1 qt. milk 3 lemons 2 cups sugar 

Put sugar in mixing bowl, squeeze lemon juice over, add 
milk slowly, stirring well ; strain and freeze at once. 

LEMON SHERBET. 

lemons 4 cups water 

2 cups sugar white of 1 ^'g% 

Mix lemon juice, water and sugar, put mixture in freezer 
and turn till it is set, then add white of egg beaten stiff, and 
turn the handle rapidly till sherbet is white and light. Be 
reful not to beat too long or sherbet will be all froth, 

RASPBERRY OR STRAWBERRY SHERBET. 

1 qt. berries 2 cups sugar 

2 lemons 2 " water 

white of 1 ^%% 
Mash berries and mix with sugar, water and lemon juice, 
then put through strainer. Freeze according to directions 
for lemon sherbet. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 
2 cups fresh fruit 1 lemon 

2 '' water 2 cups sugar 

white of 1 ^%% 
Cut pineapple up fine and cook thirty minutes with one 
cup sugar and one cup water, put through sieve, add lemon 
juice and remainder of water and sugar. Strain, cool, and 
freeze according to directions for lemon sherbet. 



THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 



ORANGE SHERBET. 

6 oranges 1 cup sugar 

1 lemon 2 cups water 

white of 1 ^%% 

Mix juice of orange and lemon with sugar and water, 
strain and freeze according to directions for lemon sherbet. 

GRAPE JUICE SHERBET. 

\.\ cups sugar 1 cup grape juice 

4 lemons 3 cups water 

white of 1 ^%'g 

Mix and freeze according to directions for lemon sherbet. 



,2 THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK 



BREADS, 



BROWN BISCUIT. 

If cups entire wheat flour \ cup milk 

\ cup bran 1 " water 

Have liquid very cold, mix with flour and bran, beat well. 
Have gem pan hot enough from heat of oven to smoke when 
buttered. Pour in cold mixture and bake thirty- minutes. 
Turn out on half towel and throw other half over ; let stand 
ten minutes for steam to soften crust. 

This is the original rule for unleavened bread made over 
forty years ago, when the batter w^as mixed stiff and dropped 
by spoonfuls on the floor of the oven, the cast-iron pan not 
being in existence at that time. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

1^ cups milk 2 cups entire wheat flour 

1 ^%% 1 tsp. sugar 

Beat white of ^%% stiff, add j^olk, and beat, add milk and 
sugar, stir this into the flour. Beat well and bake in mod- 
erate oven about one-half hour. 

POP OVERS. 

1 cup entire wheat flour 
1 cup milk 1 ^%% 

Beat 3^olk of ^zz, add milk, and stir this into the flour 
slowly to prevent lumping. Beat well, add white of ^%% 
beaten stiff. Beat this w^ell with cake whip. Bake one-half 
hour in moderate oven. 



THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 33 



CORNMEAL GEMS. 
\ cup corn meal 1 Tbsp. sugar 

1 " milk 2 eggs 

Boil milk, mix meal and sugar, pour hot milk over slowly, 

then put back on stove and cook till it thickens. Cool slightl3^ 

add ^%% yolks well beaten, then whites beaten stiff. Bake in 

gem pans in moderate oven one-half hour. Makes twelve 

gems . 

RYE GEMS. 

(Mrs. Lincoln's Boston Cook Book.) 

f cup rye meal 2 eggs 

\ '' flour 1 Tbsp. sugar 

1 cup milk 

Mix meal, flour and sugar, beat yolks of eggs, add milk 
to them, and beat into dry mixture, add whites beaten stiff. 
Bake in gem pans in moderate oven one-half hour. Makes 
twelve gems. 

OATMEAL GEMS. 

1 cup boiling w^ater 2 eggs 

\ " oatmeal 1 cup milk 

2 cups bread flour 

Cook oatmeal in boiling w^ater ten minutes, cool slightly, 
beat eggs separately, add yolks to oatmeal, then milk and 
flour, lastly whites of eggs. Bake one-half hour in gem pans. 
Makes fifteen gems. 

These gems can be made of wheat germ, or any similar 

breakfast food, using one-fifth cup in place of one-half cup 

of oatmeal. 

BATTER CAKES. 

2\ cups water 2 eggs 

\ cup wheat germ 2 Tbsp. milk 

2 Tbsp. flour 
Cook the wheat germ in water ten minutes, cool, add milk, 
well beaten eggs, and flour. Fry on hot griddle. 



LofC. 



34 THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 

EGG DIGESTIVE BREAD. 
1 ^<g^ \ cup milk 

\ cup water \ " bran 

If cups entire wheat flour 

Beat white of ^%% stiff, add 3'olk, and beat again, add 
milk and water, mix well, add bran and one and one-half cups 
flour and beat thoroughly wdth cake whip to incorporate air 
into the mixture. Then put in the rest of the flour and bake 
in small pan two hours in oven suitable for bread. The pan 
should be made of sheet iron and be three inches deep, four 
inches wide, and five or six inches long. 

SCOTCH SHORT BREAD. 
1^ cups flour \ cup powdered sus^ar 

1 hp. Tl)sp. rice flour \ lb. butter 

Cream butter and sugar together, beat well, mix with 

flour. This mixture will be very crumbly and must be patted 

into one large cake, or small ones as you like, l^se a granite 

pie plate and press the cake firmly round the edges. Bake 

one-half hour or till well browned. There is no liquid used 

in this cake. 

PLAIN CRISPS. 

(Mks. Lincoln's Boston Cook Book.) 

- cups strawberry cream \ cup bran 

\ cup sugar \\. cups entire wdieat flour 

This mixture will be so stiff that it will be hard to mix. 
Turn out on board and knead ten minutes. Roll one-eighth 
inch thick, prick to prevent blistering. Cut in long narrow- 
strips, bake on ungreased tin in hot oven. Reserve a little of 
the flour for rolling crisps. 

FRUITED CRISPS. 
Roll dough thin, spread with raisins, cut fine, or currants. 
La}^ another thin layer of dough over, press firmly together 
with rolling-pin : cut in strips and bake. 



THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 



PLAIN CRACKERS. 

o cups entire wheat flour 
1 cup water or milk, or part water and milk 

Reserve one-fourth cup of flour to knead dough on board, 
knead ten minutes, roll one-fourth inch in thickness, prick 
with fork to prevent blistering. Bake till well browned. 
These crackers resemble old fashioned Boston Water Crackers. 

WHEAT GERM CRACKERS. 

2 cups wheat germ meal ^ cup milk 

1 cup entire wheat flour \ " butter 

Mix meal and flour, rub butter into it, add milk, then 
knead dough ten minutes. Roll one-eighth inch thick, prick 
to prevent blistering, cut any desired shape, bake in quick 
oven. Any grainy cereal may be used instead of the wheat- 
germ meal. 



36 



THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 



CAKE 



MADEIRA CAKE. 

2 eggs 4 cup whole wheat flour 

I cup sugar \ " butter 

little nutmeg 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly and beat well. In another 
bowl beat whites of eggs stiff, add 3"olks, one at a time to 
beaten whites and beat well. Add eggs to sugar and butter, 
then flour and nutmeg. A thorough beating is necessary. 
Bake in moderate oven an hour. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

3 eggs \ tsp. cinnamon 

f cup butter \ ' ' mace 

If " sugar ^ of a nutmeg 

\ " molasses (scant) pinch of cloves 

\ " coffee ^ lb. citron 

2 cups flour i " raisins 
f lb. currants 

Cream butter and sugar, add eggs well beaten, molasses, 
coffee, then flour with spices mixed in it. Lasth' fruit which 
was prepared the day before by shredding citron, stoning 
raisins, and washing both raisins and currants thoroughly, 
and drying them. Rub flour through currants and raisins 
and shake them in sieve to remove extra flour. lyine tin with 
three la^^ers of paper on sides, and five on bottom, greasing 
upper layer. Bake in one large bread pan three hours. 
Will keep for months. 



THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 37 



SPONGE CAKE. 
3 eggs juice and riiid of \ lemon 

I cup powdered sugar \ cup flour 

Beat whites of eggs very stiff, add yolks one at a time and 
beat well. Add sugar sifted, then lemon. The mixture 
must be beaten vigorously before flour is added. The flour 
is to be folded in with as little stirring as possible. Bake in 
moderate oven an hour. 

PEANUT DROP CAKES. 
1 Tbsp. butter \ cup flour 

^ cup powdered sugar 2 Tbsp. milk 

1 Q,^^ 1 pt. raw peanuts in shell 

Shell, blanch and chop peanuts. Cream butter and sugar, 
beat white of ^<g% stiff, add yolk and beat well, then add beaten 
^%% to butter and sugar; add milk, chopped peanuts and 
flour. Drop from teaspoon in little cakes, bake until brown. 
Almonds may be used instead of peanuts. 

ROCK CAKE. 

1 cup brown sugar 2 eggs 

I ' ' butter i cup coffee 

If " flour 2 Tbsp. lemon juice 

Cream butter and sugar, add well beaten eggs, then coffee, 
lemon juice and flour. Drop on buttered tins, making the 
cakes look rough, and bake in hot oven so they will retain 
shape and brown the points. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

2 cups sugar 2 eggs 

1 cup butter 2 Tbsp. ginger 

Flour to make very stiff. Roll about one-eighth inch 
thick. 



oS THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 

GERMAN SPICE CAKE. 
1 lb. powdered sugar \ lb. almonds 

1 lb. flour i lb. citron 

4 eggs 2 oz, ground cinnamon 

pinch of cloves 
Beat eggs, add sugar, then flour, with spices mixed, lastly 
nuts (blanched and shredded) and citron (sliced fine). Roll 
one-fourth inch thick, cut in rounds, bake in moderate oven. 

JUMBLES. 
\ cup butter 2 eggs 

\ " sugar 1^ cups flour 

little nutmeg 

Drop from teaspoon, bake in hot oven. Makes two dozen 

cakes. 

SCOTCH FANCIES. 

1 ^%% 1 tsp. melted butter 

\ cup powdered sugar l^- cups rolled oats 

few drops vanilla 

Beat egg very light, add sugar, butter, vanilla, and rolled 

oats, drop on buttered tin in twelve little cakes. Bake till 

well browned. 

ENGLISH ^A^AFERS. 

3 cups entire wheat flour 1 cup sugar 

1 cup butter 1 " molasses 

1 Tbsp. ginger 

Rub butter into flour, add sugar, molasses, and ginger. 
Mix with a knife and make into a firm, smooth mass. Keep 
twenty-four hours in a cool place, roll thin and bake. 

CRULLERS. 

(Mrs. Lincoln's Boston Cook Book.) 

1 Tbsp. melted butter 1 ^^'g 

1 ' ' milk little mace 

2 " powdered sugar (hp.) flour 



THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 39 

Beat white of itgg stiff, add yolk and beat, then sugar and 
milk. Flour enough to roll out ; add mace with flour. Fry 
in deep fat. 

LAYER CAKE. 

Bake the sponge cake in two round pans and use any of 
the following mixtures between the two cakes. Sprinkle 
powdered sugar over the top cake. 



LEMON JELLY FILLING. 

1 large tart apple f cup sugar 

rind and juice of 1 lemon i Tbsp. butter 

Grate apple and lemon rind, mix all together, and cook in 
double boiler till thickened and amber color. When cold 
spread on cake. 

DATE FILLING. 

^ lb. dates i cup water 

f cup sugar butter size of walnut 

1 lemon, juice and grated rind 

Stone and chop dates fine, mix all ingredients together 
and cook till soft. 

CREAM FILLING. 

2 cups hot milk 1 cup sugar 

2 eggs 2 heaping Tbsp. flour 

1 tsp. vanilla 

Beat eggs all together, mix flour and sugar together, and 
add to eggs, turn hot milk on slowly, then put back in double 
boiler and cook fifteen minutes, stirring constantly until it 
thickens. Flavor when cold. 



40 



THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 



CREAM PUFFS. 

1 cup water 1 cup flour 



butter 



3 esres 



Have water boiling on stove, add butter, when melted 
remove from stove and stir in iiour ; let this cool. x\dd 
whole eggs, one at a time, mixing them in with hand. Drop 
on buttered tin, making them look rough, and bake twenty- 
five minutes in hot oven ; do not open oven door for, fifteen 
minutes. Makes twelve puffs. 



THE HYGEIA COOK HOOK. 41 



BEVERAGES. 



GRAPE JUICE. 

8 qts. Coucord grapes, picked off stems 
3 qts. water 

Boil five minutes. Strain. To every two qts. juice add 
one cup sugar, boil five minutes. Bottle and seal air-tight 
while hot. 

BARLEY WATER. 

1 cup Pearl Barley 10 cups water 

Simmer four or five hours, adding water to keep same 
amount. vStrain. add lemon juice and sugar to taste. May 
be used hot or cold. Excellent for invalids. 

LEMONADE. 

Squeeze the juice from one-half lemon into a tumbler, add 
three teaspoonsful sugar, and fill tumbler with hot or cold 
water. If lemon is not juicy, use the juice of whole lemon. 



42 



THE HYGEIA COOK BOOK. 



INDEX. 



Introduction 
Directions . . . 



BEVERAGES: 

Barley Water 41 

Grape Juice 41 

Lemonade 41 

BREADS: 32 

Batter Cakes 33 

Brown Biscuit 32 

Cornmeal Gems 33 

Crackers : 

Plain 35 

Wheat Germ 35 

Plain Crisps 34 

Fruited Crisps 34 

Egg Digestive Bread 34 

Graham Gems 32 

Oatmeal Gems 33 

Pop-overs 32 

Rye Gems 33 

Scotch Short Bread 34 

CAKE: 36 

Cream Puffs 40 

Crullers 38 

English Wafers 38 

Fruit Cake 36 

German vSpice Cakes 38 

Jumbles 38 

Layer Cake 39 

Lemon Jelly Filling 39 

Date Filling 39 

Cream Filling 39 

Madeira Cake 36 

Peanut Drop Cakes 37 

Rock Cakes 37 

Scotch Fancies 38 

vSponge Cake 37 

vSugar Cookies 37 

COLD DESSERTS: 25 

Chocolate Pudding -25 

Coffee Jelly 26 



COLD DESSERTS — Continued : 
Custards : 

Baked 27 

Boiled 26 

Caramel 27 

Flummery 27 

Irish Moss Blanc Mange 25 

Lemon Blanc Mange 25 

Tapioca Cream 27 

Stewed Figs 26 

EGGS: 5 

Baked 5 

Boiled 5 

Dropped 6 

5 

5 

6 

6 

6 



Fried 

Scrambled 

Stuffed 

Egg Vermicelli 

Omelet 

HOT PUDDINGS: 21 

Apple Tapioca 22 

Baked Indian Pudding 21 

Banana Fritters 24 

Boiled Rice 22 

Bread Pudding 23 

Cold Rice Pudding 22 

Corn Starch Pudding 23 

Hasty Pudding 21 

Indian Tapioca Pudding 21 

Peach Tapioca 22 

Pineapple Tapioca 23 

Poor Man's Pudding 23 

Scottish Pudding 23 

Tapioca Pudding 21 

PUDDING SAUCES : 19 

Hard Sauce 19 

Lemon Sauce 20 

Maple Syrup Sauce 19 

Molasses Sauce 20 



IXDEX. 



PUDDING SAUCES — Continued: 

Plain Hot Sauce 19 

Simple Sauce 19 

PIES : 28 

Apple Pie 28 

Apple Dowdy 28 

Cranberry- Pie 29 

Custard Pie 28 

IvCmon Pie 29 

Mince Pie 20 

Pastry 28 

Squash Pie 28 

SALADS : 

Salad Dressing iS 

Apple and Celery Salad iS 

Kgg Salad 18 

Potato Salad 18 

Tomato Salad 18 

SAUCES: 

Apple Sauce ro 

Baked Apples 10 

Cranberry Jelly 10 

SAVORIES: 7 

Baked Beans 9 

Baked Macaroni 8 

Baked Macaroni with Tomato ... 8 

Bread Omelet 9 

Chestnuts a la Maitre d' Hotel . .. 8 

Lentil Croquettes 7 

Mock Oysters 8 

Rice Croquettes 7 

Rice and Tomato Escalloped 7 

SHERBETS : 30 

Grape Juice Sherbet 31 

Lemon Sherbet 30 

Milk Sherbet 30 

Orange Sherbet 31 

Pineapple Sherbet 30 

Raspberry Sherbet 30 

Strawberry Sherbet 30 

SOUPS: I 

Crofitons 4 

Baked Bean Soup i 

Black Bean Soup i 

Cabbage Soup 2 

Celery Soup 2 

Corn Soup 3 

Lentil Soup i 



Mock Bisque Soup 4 

Onion Soup 4 

Pea Soup I 

Potato Soup 3 

Potato Chowder 3 

Spinach Soup 2 

Tomato Soup 4 

Vegetable Soup 2 

VEGETABLES: n 

Barley (plain) 17 

Cabbage '• 13 

Carrots 15 

Cauliflower 13 

Green Peas 16 

Linia Beans 17 

Onions : 

Boiled 14 

Creamed 14 

Escalloped 14 

Fried 14 

Parsnips : 

Boiled 15 

Creamed 15 

Escalloped 15 

Fried 15 

Potatoes : 

Boiled II 

Chips 13 

Creamed n 

Escalloped 12 

Fried 12 

L^'onaise 12 

Mashed n 

Riced II 

Souffle 12 

Salsify 14 

Sieva Beans 17 

Spinach 13 

Squash : 

Baked 14 

Boiled 14 

Sweet Corn 16 

Tomatoes : 

Baked Stuffed 16 

Broiled 16 

Escalloped 16 

Fried Green 15 

Stewed 16 



