Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



b,GoogIc 



Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



Culinary Collection 



b,GoogIc 



b,GoogIc 



b,GoogIc 



b,GoogIc 



b,GoogIc 



«»vi.fc/?r- 



Nsy 



/iu 



SODP. 

"Soup IB to a dinner what a portico ia to a manBion."' 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP. 

Break 6 stalks celery in small pieces; cook in 3 cups milk with: 
a slice of onion SO minutes; thicken witli 4 tablespoon fills each 
of butter and flour cooked together. Just before serving add 
1 cupful cream. Season with 1 teaapoonful salt and pepper, and 
Etrain. Mrs. E. M. Slayton. 

CHEESE SOUP. 

One quart milk put on in double boiler; into it put 1 carrot, 
1 onion, 1 blade of mace (cut fine), and cook one half hour, then 
skim out ve^tables. Take 2 tableapoonfuls flour, 2 of butter, 
blend well, using a little milk to make like white sauce; stir into 
the milk and cook until it thickens a litte. When it is ready to 
remove from the stove for serving, stir in 3 tablespoonfuls 
of Parmesan cheese (or any mild cheese grated) and 1 egg well 
beaten. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Ml88 EuuA Vabney. 

PEANUT SOUP. 

Boil until tender 2 cupfuls peanuts in enough water to cover 
them; mash nnd add 3 cupfuls milk, 1 tablespoonfut butter and 
a little salt and pepper. Serve hot, 

N. A. HOLTON. 

APPLEDORE SOUP. 

Cook 3 potatoes in boiling salted water until tender, rub- 
through a sieve; scald 4 cupfuls milk with 2 slices c ' ~ 

move onion, add milk to potato and bind with 4 1'" 
butter and 2 tableapoonfuls flour cooked together, 
salt and pepper and just before serving add 4 tablespoonfuls. 
tomato catsup. N. Clouoh. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Four good-sized tomatoes cut in pieces, add 1 quart of bailing 
water, 1 teaspoonful of soda, salt, pepper, butter, and a pint of 
milk. Do not let it boil after the milk is put in. 

Mrs. L. W. Colby. 



b,GoogIc 



BAKED BEAN SOUP. 

Take any left over beans, cover with water and add as much 

tomato as you wish; slice in an onion, a celery stock, a little 

mustard, pepper, and salt, and let simmer am hour or so, strain 

and add hot water if necessary to make the right consistency. 

Mrs. Florence Fisher. 

TOMATO BOUILLON. 

Cook 1 can tomatoes with 1 quart bouillon, 1 tablespoonful 
chopped onion, 1 bay leaf, 6 cloves, 1 teaspoonful celery seed, 
and Vi teaspoonful peppercorns twenty minutes. Strain, cool, 
and clear, using whites and shells of 2 eggs. Use brown stock. 
Do not sift through tomatoes as for soup. 

Mrs. W. B. B. 

CREAM OP MUSHROOM SOUP. 

Add '/a pound chopped mushrooms, and 1 slice onion to 4 
cups chicken stock. Cook 20 minutes, rub through sieve, thicken 
with 14 cup each butter and flour cooked together, and add 1 
cup cream. Just before serving add 2 tablespoonfuls Sauteme 
wine. Use white stock. 

Mrs, W. B. Burpee. 

NOODLE. 
Beat 1 egg slightly, add ^ teaspoonful salt, and fiour to make 
a stiff dough. Knead, roll as thin as possible, cut in shapes and 
cook 30 minutes in boiling salted water. Serve in clear soup. 
Mrs. W. B. B. 

CORN CHOWDER. 

Chop E small onions and 1 ounce of pork very fine and fry. 
Pare and cut in dice 4 good-sized potatoes and boil until soft, 
add % can of corn, then the pork and onions, salt, and lastly 1 
quart of milk. Bring to boiling point and serve very hot. 
Butter can be used in place of pork if preferred. 

Miss Lucy Hope. 

CREAM OP CORN SOUP. 

One can of corn, chop fine and put into 1 quart of boiling water. 
Cook gently for nearly an hour, remove from the fire and rub 
through a colander, then add a little salt and pepper. Cook in 
another pan a tablespoonful of butter and 2 of flour, turn on 
them the corn soup and stir until it thickens. Put a pinch of 
soda into a pint of milk and when you have heated the milk 
pour it Slowly on a beaten egg. Now add soup to milk. 

Mrs. Grace Darlinq Siuons. 

Finest grade of Canned Goods to be found at Fred H. Poore's. 



MOCK BISQUE SOUP. 

One hal/ can tomatoes, 1 quart milk. Va cp butter, 1 table- 
Bpoonful cornstarch, 1 teaspoonful salt, y^ saltspoonful white 
pepper. Stew the tomatoes until soft enough to strain easily. 
Boil the milk in the double boiler. Cook 1 tablespoonful of the 
butter and cornstarch together in a small saucepan, ailding 
enoug-h of the hot milk to make it pour easily. Stir it carefully 
into the boiling milk and boil ten minutes. Add the remainder 
of the butter in small pieces and stir until well mixed. Add 
the salt and pepper and the strained tomatoes. If the tomatoes 
are very acid, add half a saltspoonful of soda before straining. 
Serve very hot. Mrs. Chabus J. Staples. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Parboil 1 quart oysters, strain, chop and press through siere. 
Melt 3 tablespoontuls butter, add S tablespoonfuls flour, the 
oyster liquor, and enough milk to make 4 cupfuls; add oysters, 
season with salt, pepper, and onion juice. Garnish with beaten 

Mrs, D. D, Felton. 

TOMATO PUR^E. 



Four large tomatoes washed and ciit, 1 small onion. 1 pint 
water. 1 teaspoonful of salt and a little pepper. Let this stew 
slowly for an hour, then add a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut and 1 teaspoonful of flour smoothed in water. Hare 
ready 1 pint of milk scalding hot; when ready to serve add to 
the milk a pinch of soda. Strain the tomatoes through a col- 
ander into the soup tureen, add milk and serve at once. 

Mrs. Jambs W. Hill. 



FISH. 

"What wilt thou that I bring; the spotted, delicate-n 



FISH CHOWDER. 

Use haddock; clean, bone, and skin, remove head and boil 
separately in water. Fry in kettle as many slices of salt pork 
as you like until they are brown. Cut onions very thin and fry 
in salt pork fat into which you put a very little water; cover 
while frying. When ready put into kettle a layer of ftah, then 
potato, over which you pour water from head of haddock. Cook 
until potatoes can be pierced easily with a fork, then put in as 
much milk as you care for and let it boil up once. Season and 
put in lump of butter. Mrs. P. H. Dow, 



FISH BALLS. 

Pick up flsh and boil with twiee the quantity of potato; season 
with salt, pepper, and a piece of butter; mash and stir into 1 
well-beaten egg. When cold make into ballE and fry in deep fat, 
Mrs. Florence Fisheb. 

OYSTERS A LA MARANGO. 

One quart of oysters washed and drained; cook until liquor 
comes from them; pour off liquor and save 1 cupful to mix with 
a cupful of milk or cream. Melt 2 tablespoonfula of butter and 
stir into it 3 tables poonfu Is of flour, then add gradually the pint 
of liquor and cream. Add a teaspoonful ol salt and a saltspoon- 
ful of pepper and 2 table spoonfuls ^ated cheese. Turn oysters 
into a baking dish, cover with sauce and on top put y^ cupful of 
fine cracker crumbs moistened in melted butter. Bake until 
crumbs are brown. One can use % cupful tomato juice instead 
of cheese if preferred. Mrs. Flobence FiaBiS. 

FISH CAKES. 

One pint bowlful of picked salt codfish, 2 pint bowlfula of raw 
potatoes; put together in cold water and boil until the potatoes 
are done, remove from the fire and drain off all the water, mash 
well with masher and add piece of butter the size of an egg. 2 
well-beaten eggs, and a little pepper. Mix well, make into cakes, 
and fry in pork fat. Mas. L. W. Colby. 

CREAM OYSTERS. 

(Chafing Dish.) 

One tabtespoonful butter, pinch of sail and red pepper, 1 pint 
oysters; cook until edges curl, add beaten y61ks of 3 eggs mixed 
with '/a cupful of cream. Cook two or three minutes and serr* 
on toast. Mbs. Z. F. Campbelll. 

SCALLOPED SALMON, 

Fill a buttered dish with alternate layers of flaked cold or 
canned salmon, bread crumbs, and sliced hard-boiled eggs; sea- 
son each layer with salt and pepper and dots of butter; pour a 
cupful of cream sauce over all, dust thickly with cracker crumba, 
and set in hot oven just long enough to brown. One can of 
salmon and four eggs make a good proportion. 

Mrs. Mabel M. Cheney. 

A fine quality of Sherry can be bought at P. Harrington's, 



LOBSTER A LA NEW6ERG. 

Split 1 gooil-sizetl, freKhly boiled lobster, pick all the meat 
out of shell, then cut into one-inch pieces: place in chafing- dish 
over a hot blaze with Va ounce of g-ood butter, season with a 
small pinch of salt and 1/4 saltspoonf\il of red pepper, cook five 
minntes, then add Vj, wineglassfnl of sherry; reduce to one half, 
■which will take three minutes. Beat yolks of 2 egge with about 
1 gill of sweet cream and add to the lobster. Gently shake it 
two minutes longer, or until it thickens well. 

Mrs. a. S. Bunton. 

CAPER SAUCE TO SERVE WITH FISH. 

Melt 2 ounces of butter, add 1 tablespoonful of flour, cook tour 
minutes, add V4 cupful of White Moselle wine with 1 teacupful 
of warm water; add salt, pepper, and bunch parsley, cook 
twenty minutes. Mix yolk of egg with a tablespoonful of sweet 
cream and a tablespoonful of capers. Over this, when ready to 
serve, pour the hot sauce. 

Mrs. Euqene Quirin. 

EELS METELOTTE. 

Fry pieces of eel In butter with slices of onion, remove to a 
deep dish, add a tablespoonful of flour to the fat and brown; add 
slowly a teacupful of St. Julien claret. Put back the eel and 
onions in the sauce and season with salt, pepper, whole cloves, 
parsley, laurel leaf, thyme, and a piece of garlic if desired, with 
warm water enough to make a gravy. Cook slowly thirty-five 
minutes and serve with mushrooms. 

Mas. EuQENi: Quirin. 

HALIBUT CUTLETS. 

Bny halibut steaks, cut away from the bone in the shape of 
cutlets, remove all skin from the edges; wipe perfectly dry, 
then roll in fine cracker crumbs, dip in egg, roll in cracker 
crumbs again; fry in deep lard, using frying basket. Arrange in 
center of platter with a border of latticed potatoes. 

MBS. E. L. KtMBAU.. 

HOCK TERRAPIN. 

One half a calf's liver, slice, season, and fry brown, hash it 
not very fine, dust thickly with fiour. Add 1 teaspoonful of 
mixed mustard, as much cayenne pepper as will lie on a half 
dime, 2 hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, piece of butter size of an 
egg, 1 teacupful of water. Let all boil together two or three 
minutes and serve hot. A nice supper dish. 

Mrs. G. B. Chandler. 

Finest of Claret can be purchased of E. Quirin. 

, Google 



CREAMED OYSTERS SERVED WITH MASHED 
POTATOES. 

OyiXtn. 

Put 1 pint thick cream and 1 pint of milk in double boiler 
with three slices of onion and a blade of mace. Let it stand 
for an hour on the back of the range; melt 1 large table- 
Bpooaful butter, Btlr in 2 tablespoonfuls flour, a little celery, 
salt, a very little cayenne. Bring the cream to a boil, strain, 
pour onto butter and flour, cook Ave minutes. Cook 1 quart 
oysters in their liquor, drain ofl the liquor, add to the thickened 
cream. Prepare mashed potatoes in the usual way; place a quart 
bowl in the middle of a chop platter, bank the potatoes around 
the bowl, put in the oven and brown. When a delicate brown 
remove the bowl, pour creamed oysters in its place. 

Mbs. E. L. Kimball. 

TERRAPIN. 

Put S tablespoonfuls of butter into double boiler; when it is 
hot add the terrapin, season with salt and cayenne, pour over it 
3 tablespoonfuls of sherry and serre as soon as it is all heated 
through. Mrs. L. A, Clouoh. 

MOCK TERRAPIN. 

One and a half cupfuls cold cooked chicken or veal cut in dice, 
1 cupful white sauce, yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs finely chopped, 
whites 2 hard-boiled eggs chopped, 3 tablespoonfuls sherry wine, 
% teaspoontul salt, few grains cayenne; add to sauce chicken, 
yolks and whites of eggs, salt and cayenne. Cook S minutes and 
add wine. Mbs. L. A. Clouoh. 

HALIBUT A LA BECHAMEL. 

Cut slices of halibut into fillets for serving, season with salt, 
pepper, lemon, and onion juice, dip in melted butter, dredge 
with flour and bake fifteen minutes. 

Bechamel Sauce. 

Melt 3 tablespoons butter, add two slices each of carrot and 
onion and fry five minutes, add 3 tablespoonfuls fiour and 1 
cup white stock. Cook five minutes, add % cupful cream, season 
with % teaspoonful salt and ^ teaspoonful pepper. 

Mrs. L. a. Clouoh. 

Fresh Fish at Fred H. Poore's. 

, Google 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

One pint oy Btera, 4 tableBpoonfuls oyster liquor, 2 tablespoon- 
fulB milk or cream, '/, cupful stale bread crumbs, 1 cupful 
cracker crumbs, >^ cupful melted butter, salt, pepper; mix bread 
and cracker crumbB and stir in butter; put a tbin layer in bot- 
tom of a buttered shallow baking dish, cover with oysters and 
sprinkle with salt and pepper; add one ball each of oysters, 
liquor, and cream, repeat and cover top with remainlDg: crumbs. 
Bake thirty minutes in hot oven. Never allow more than two 
layers of oysters for escalloped oyBtere. If three layers are 
used, the middle layer will be underdone. A sprinkling of ma<;e 
or grated nutmeg to each layer is considered an improvement 
by many. Sherry wine may be used in place of cream. 

Mbb. L. a. Clough. 

OYSTER CRABS. 

Melt 2 tablespoon fuls of butter, put in the oyster crabs, cook 
3 minutes, season with salt and pepper and serve. 

Mrs. L. a. Clough. 

STUFFED FILLETS OF FISH. 

Cover fillets of halibut or salmon with a French dressing, drain. 
Hour, and spread with well-seasoned hot mashed potato; put 
together in pairs, dip in Hour, egg, and crumbs, and fry in 
deep fat. Mrs. E. M. Si^ytob. 

ROASTED OYSTERS. 

Wash clean desired number of oysters and put in pan in oven 
and when done shells will open; serve on half of the shell with 
small piece of lemon and drawn butter. Cook twenty-flve 
minutes. Mks. E. M. Slaytor. 

SMELTS, VICTORIA STYLE. 

Bone the smelts and skewer together in pairs. Use- wooden 
toothpicks, buttered, fastening the tail of one smelt into the 
mouth of another, the flesh sides cominfr together. Dip in thick 
cream, season with salt, pepper, and onion Juice, and then in 
flour. Bake in hot oven, basting with melted butter, flfteen or 
twenty minutes. Lay in a Iwd of chicory; serve tartar sauce. 
Miae A.NSiE Bew.e Chandler. 

SALMON CROQUETTES. 

One and three fourths cuptuls cold flaked salmon. 1 cupful 
thick white sauce, few grains cayenne, 1 tablespoonful lemon 
juice, salt; add sauce to salmon, then add seasonin<fs, spread on 
a plate to cool, shape, dip in crumbs, egg, and crumbs again, 
fry in deep fat and drain. 

Mrs. L. a. Clouoh. 



.,G(iogIc 



BAKED FISH WITH OYSTERS. 

Two slices halibut IVg iochea thick, 1 pint oysters. In the 
bottom of a, well-gfreased baiting pan put 1 slice of fish, cover 
with raw oysters, season with salt, pepper, and % teaspoonful 
lemon juice, sprinkle over with bread crumbs that have been 
moistened in melted butter, then the other slice of fish, oyst'ers, 
salt, pepper, lemon juice, and crumbs. Bake in a hot oven 1 
hour and serve with Hollandaise sance. 

MisB Marion FRi:ncH. 

FISH CUTLETS. 

Melt 2 tablespoonfuls butter, add S tablespoonfuls flour and 1 
cup milk, season with salt, pepper, onion juice, Worcestershire, 
and parsley. Cook until boiling point is reached, and add to S 
cupfuls cold cooked ftsh; add yolks of 2 eggs, cool, shape, crumb, 
and fry. Serve with Hollandaise sauce. 

Hollandaise Sauce. 

Cream y^ cupful butter, add yolks of 2 eggs, one at a time, and 
stir until well blended; add 1 tablespoonful lemon juice and 
cook over hot water until it thickens. Add % teaspoonful salt 
and cayenne. 

Mrs. W. B. B. 

FRIED BASS WITH BACON. 

Scale and wash the fish thoroughly and cut into pieces, season 
with salt and pepper, roll in flour, then in beaten egg, and lastly 
in fine bread crumbs; fry to a golden brown in deep fat smoking 
hot. Fry in a separate pan, or cook in oven in a double boiler 
over a dripping pan, a slice of bacon to each piece of fish. Lay 
bacon on ftsh and garnish with parsley. Serve with mashed 
potato and sliced tomato or cucumber. 

Miss Annie B. Chandler, 

POACHED OYSTERS IN THE HALFSHELL. 

Butter as many scallop shells as there are individuals to serve; 
put in each shell about 6 oysters with their own liquor and 
sprinkle with salt, pepper, tomato catsup, and a drop of tobasco 
sauce; scatter a few bits of butter here an^ there on the oysters 
and set shells in hot oven. Serve as soon as the oysters look 
plump and edges curl; put 2 or 3 toast points in each shell ^r 
serve with brown bread sandwiches. 

Miss Annie B. Chandler. 



.,CioogIc 



OYSTER COCKTAILS FOR SIX. 
Clean and chill GO small oj'sters; mix with 3 teaBpoonfuIs finely 
^ated horseradish , 1 teaspoon ful tobaseo eauce, 2 tablespoonfuls 
vinegar, 5 tablespoonfuls lemon juice, 3 tableBpoonfuls Worcester- 
shire sauce, 3 tablespoonfuls tomato catsup, 1% tablespoonfuls 
salt. Serve in sherry glasses. 

MiSB AmnB B. Chandler. 

MEATS AND ENTREES. 

"Hunger is the best seasoning for meat." 

VEAL LOAF. 

Three and one half pounds veal, Vjj pound salt pork, chop or 
grind fine; pound 6 crackers fine, 2 beaten eggs, % cupful but- 
ter, 1 teaspoonful pepper, i teaspoonful salt, i tablespoontul 
poultry seasoning; mix all together thoroughly, using a little 
water if too dry; put into a bread pan, cover with bits of butter, 
and dredge with flour. Bake slowly two hours. When cold slice 
as you would meat. Mrb. Morse. 

SWEETBREADS IN ASPIC. 

Clear 1 quart chicken stock, add to 2 ounces granulated gele- 
tine soaked in '/, cupful cold water, put thin layer in molds, gar- 
nish with hard-boiled eggs and parsley and add more stock: add 
slices of sweetbreads parboiled in boiling water and sautM in 
butter. Cover with stock and let stand till jellied. 

Mb8. W. B. Bcbpee. 

WOODCOCK BROILED WITH BACON. 

Pick, singe, draw, pick out the eyes and remove the skin from 
the heads of e fine woodcocks; wipe them and split through the 
back without separating the parts; put them on a dish to season 
with a pinch of salt, half a pinch of pepper, and 1 tableapoonful 
of sweet oil; roll them in well and put them on to broil with 
bills stuck into the breasts; broil four minutes on each side. 
Serve on dish with drawn butter spread over and decorated with 
G slices of broiled bacon. 

Mrs. E. M. Slaytos. 

CANVASBACK DUCKS BROILED. 

Take 3 fine, fat eanvasback ducks, pick, singe, draw, and wipe 
them thoroughly. SaJit them through the back without detacli- 
ing them and lay them on a dish to season with a good pinch 
of salt, half pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonful of oil; roll them 
in well and put them to broil seven minutes on each side. Serve 
on a hot dish; spread a. gill of drawn butter over and decorate 
with parsley. Mna, E. M. Slattos. 



.,.,t;>x»ic 



CHICKEN CASSEROLE. 

Dress, clean, and cut a chicken into pieces for Berving'; remove 
skin, sprinkle with salt and pepper and dredg-e with flour; sautfi 
^ onion in 1 tablespoonful butter; when well browned put into 
casserole. Saut4 chicken In butter, brown on alt sides and add 
to onion In casserole, add Vt tabtespoonful flour to pan and 1^ 
cupfuls stock, bring to boiling point and season; pour sauce over 
chidien, add a bay leaf, potato balls, carrot cut in cubes, 1 table- 
spoonful sherry, and a few muBhrooms. Cover casserole and 
cook in a moderate oven until chicken is tender. 

Mrb. W. B. B. 

SULTANA CROQUETTES. 

Make a sauce of 3 tablespoonfuls butter, 6 tablespoonfuls flour, 
and % cupful cream; add 2 tablespoonfuls each of wine and 
brandy, ^^ cupful sultana raisins soaked in brandy, y^ cupful 

chopped nuta, Vt teaspoonful cinnamon, and salt; cool, shape, 
and fry and serve with claret sauce. Dilute 1'/^ teaspoonfuls 
arrowroot with cold water, add 1 eupful claret and % cupful 
sugar. Cook Hve minutes. 

Mrs. W. B. B. 

HONEYCOMB TIMBALES. 

Line timbale molds with cold cooked macaroni cut in %-iuch 
pieces and fill with following mixture: Melt 3 tablespoonfuls 

butter, add V4 cupful flour, % cupful milk, the yolks of 3 eggs, 
1 cupful mild cheese, and '/x cupful Swiss cheese. Season with 
salt, pepper, and cayenne, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve 

Cheese Sauce. 

Scald 1 cupful milk, add 2 eggs beaten slightly, % tablespoon- 
ful butter, Vt teaspoonful salt, and 3 tablespoonfuls grated 
cheese. Cook until it thickens. 

Mrs, W. B. B. 

CIVET OF RABBIT. 

Lay slices of rabbit in a deep earthern dish with salt, pepper, 
3 whole cloves, parsley, thyme, 3 laurel leaves, 2 raw onions, 1 
raw carrot sliced fine; add a tablespoonful olive oil, 2 teacup- 
fuls of Moselle wine. After two or three days fry the pieces of 
rabbit in bacon fat till a reddish brown, remove to a hot dish; 
put in the fry pan a tablespoonful of flour, brown slowly, then 
add strained pickle juice and enough water to make a thick 
gravy; add the fried meat and simmer two or three hours; 
twenty minutes before serving add the liver, garnish with small 
onions and mushrooms. 

Mrs. Eugene Qtjirin. 



RICE CROQUETTES WITH JELLY. 

Wash V4 cupful rice, add to Vi cupful boiling water, strain, 
add 1 cupful scalded milk, cool till rice is soft; add 2 egg yolks, 
1 tablespoonful butter, and season with salt, lemon juice, 
Worcestershire, and a little nutmeg'. Cool, dip in crumbs, egg, 
and crumbs, shape, and fry in deep fat. 

Mrs. W. B. B. 

PEANUT CROQUETTES. 

One pint bread crumbs, 8 gills cold milk, 2 cupfuts flcLiy 
chopped peanuts; stir this mixture in a double boiler over the 
fire until it is a smooth mass, then add the well-beaten yolks 
of 4 eggs and remove from the fire. When cold form into any 
desired shape; dip in egg, then in cracker crumbs and fry a 
golden brown in hot fat. Drain on brown paper and serve at 
once with caramel or hot melted maple sugar. 

Mrs. M. a. Holton. 

VEAL SCALLOP. 

Cut fine some cold roast veal or veal steak, and put a layer in 
a pudding dish; season well with pepper and salt. Next put a 
layer of finely powdered cracker, and strew some bits of butter 
over it, wetting the whole with a little milk. Repeat this until 
the dish is full, moisten well with veal gravy and spread over all 
a thick layer of cracker crumbs wet with milk and a beaten 
egg; add bits of butter, cover and bake three quarters of an 
hour. Mrs, Frank LivmaeTOV. 



VEGETABLES. 



POTATO ROSES. 

Two cupfuls hot mashed potatoes, pressed through a potato 
riser, 2 tablespoanfuls butter, y^ tablespoonful salt, % table- 
spoonful paprika and dash cayenne, dash celery salt, 3 eggs. 
yolks slightly beaten, whites slightly beaten with 1 tablespoon- 
ful water. Beat potato, butler, salt, etc., with a fork and pass 
through pastry bag and tube onto a, plate in form of roses; brush 
with whites of eggs and brown in oven. Serve as a garnish 
around fish, meat, or poultry. 

Miss Anrie B. Crahikler. 



., Google 



SAUSR KRAUT. 

Wa«h & qoart of sauer kraut in cold water, put it on to boll 
in just enough boiling water to cover it; boil one hour, then add 
1 tablespoonful of cometarch wet in cold wat«r; boil a fen- 
minutes, then pour in the drippings from a roast of fresh pork. 
€erTe hot. Mbs. Reinhabd Hxckeb. 

CABBAGE AU GRATIN. 

Cut ^ boiled cabbagfe fine; make 1 pint white sauce; put lajrer 
of cabbage in buttered baking dish, sprinkle with 1 tablespooD- 
ful grated cheese and pour over a little of the white sauce. Add 
other layers In aame manner, having the last layer with sauce, 
and cover top with Yg cupful cracker crumbs stirred into 3 
tablespoonfuls melted butter. Bake until crumbs are brown. 
HiBB Annie B. Coasdusb. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

Six ears of com grated, 2 eggs, 4 cooking spoonfuls of milk, % 
cupful flour, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, ^ teaspoontul 
«ach o^salt and sugar. Pry like oysters. 

Mbs. a. H. Olzendau. 

SPINACH AND EGG SALAD. 

Press cooked and drained spinach through a purte sieve; let 
a scant tablespoonful gelatine stand in Vi cupful water until 
water is absorbed, then dissolved in a cup of hot beef or chicken 
broth or 1 teaspoonful beef extract stirred in a cup of boiling 
water; add juice Yn a lemon, salt and pepper to taste, also 
generous cupful of the spinach. Put hard-boiled eggs cut in 
slices in timbale cases, also a little spinach; then decorate sidee 
of mold with slices of egg and finish filling molds with spinach. 
Two eggs will decorate four or five molds. Cut sliccB from cen- 
ter for bottom and crescents from the ends for sides of mold. 
Unmold on slices of cold pickled tongue. Serve sauce (tartar) 
in a dish apart. 

MiBB Annik B. Chanhlkb. 

SPINACH A LA CREME IN BREAD CASES. 

Wash spinach in four waters, remove faded leaves, put in a 
pan oD the back of the stove, cook slowly (do not add water); 
move to hotter part of fire, cook until tender, stirring oceasion- 
ally, chop in chopping bowl, rub through a colander, reheat, 
add pepper, salt, 1 teaspoonful butter, Y* of a cupful of cream. 
Fry squares bread cases in butter and serve spinach in them. 
Mrs. Jaues W. Hill. 

Best Sauer Kraut can be bought of Reinhard Hecker. 

, Google 



STUFFED EGG PLANT. 

Cut egg plant in halves leogthwise, scoop out pulp, leaving a 
vrall % inch thick, chop the pulp with slices of onion and sautfi 
in 2 table Hpoonfuls of butter about ten minutes without burn- 
ing the mixture; add an equal bulk of fine bread crumbs, salt 
and pepper to taste, the yolk of 1 egg or 2, according to size of 
egg plant, and enough strained tomato pulp, or white or brown 
sauce to moisten mixture. Turn into the shells, cover with y^ 
cupful cracker crumbs stirred in 3 table spoonfuls butter and. 
bake about en hour in moderate oven. 

Hiss Annie B. Chandleb. 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 

Parboil peppers, chop 1 onion, saut« in V4 cupful butter, add ^ 
cupful bread crumbs, and season with salt and Worcestershire. 
Put 1 tablespoonful of this mixture in pepper, break an egg 
over this, cover with crumbs and bake fifteen minutes. Serve 

ou toast. Msa, W. B. BUBPEG. 

POTATO PUFFS. 

Cold roast or boiled beef chopped and seasoned. 1 bowl of cold 
mashed potatoes, 2 eggs, salt and pepper to taste; stir in flour 
enough to roll out on a board, cut out with bawl like cookies, 
and put the seasoned beef on one half, fold over the other and 
pinch down like turnovers and fry in butter. 

Mrs. a. H. Olzendau, 

ONION SAUCE. 

Twenty-four seed cucumbers, 13 onions, chop fine and add 1 
small cup of salt and let stand over night; in the morning drain 
and add 1 quart of vinegar, 1 ounce of celery seed, '/^ cupful of 
mustard seed, 1 tablespoonful of white pepper. 

Mrs. E. M. Slayton. 

BAKED ONIONS. 

Boil (i or 8 onions in three salted waters, put in a baking dish. 
Have ready white sauce made with 1 teaspoonful flour and 1 
tablespoonful butter cooked together; add 1 cupful of hot milk, 
gradually, stirring all the time, season with salt and pepper. 
Pour over the onions, cover with buttered bread crumbs and 
bake quickly, or until the crumbs are brown. Serve in the same 
dish with a napkin folded diagonally around il. Try cabbage Iq 
the same way, but do not cover cabbage while boiling. 

Mrs. M. a. Holtoit. 

Fresh Vegeubles at Fred H. Poore's. 



,ioogIc 



SALAD. 

"Pour oil upon it, pure oil — oiive." 

CHEESE AND OLIVE SALAD. 

Mix 2 Neufchatel ctteeeea with 1 cupful Young' American cheese 
and 12 pimoias, season with salt and cayenne, moisten with 
cream, press and cut in squares. Serve on lettuce with a French 
dressing' and garnish with pimoias. 

MB8, E. M. Slatton. 
TARTAR SAUCE. 
To 1 cupful mayonnaise dressing', made very thick with oil, add 
1 teblespoonful each of chopped pickle capers and pimoias. 

Miae Annie B. Chakdler. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING. 

Two whole eggs, or yolks of Ave;' mix together 1 tableapoonful 
mustard, 1 tablespoontul salt, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, speck of 
cayenne; add the beaten eggs, 1 cupful cream, and 1 cupful 
vinegar. Cook in double boiler like soft custard. 

Mabel M. Ciikiet. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of * eggs, 1 tablespoonful of mustard, 1 tableapoonful 
salt, 2 table spoonfuls powdered sugar, "^ cupful cream, 1 cupful 
vinegar, '/j cupfu! butter, whites of four eggs. Beat the yolks 
well, wet the mustard with a little water, add salt, sugar, and 
cream, and mix with the yolks: melt the butter in the hot 
vinegar, add the mixture and stir over hot water until it 
thickens, then add whites of eggs well beaten. 

Mrs. L. W, Cotsv. 

WATERMELON SALAD. 

Cut a watermelon, chilled by standing on ice. in halves, cut 
out the red portion and divide into cubes an inch square. Have 
ready a mixture of y^ a tablespoonful of ground cinnamon to 
Vi cupful powdered sugar and sprinkle this over the meion. Let 
stand a few moments and serve. 

MiBB Annie B. Cranih.er. 

RUSSIAN SALAD. 

Cut fresh vegetables in dice, cook separately and cool, arrange 
color designs on a salad dish and pour over the following dress- 
ing; Three tablespoonfuls vinegar, a tablespoonfuis ohve oil, 
salt, pepper, mustard, and parsley cut Bne. Garnish with hard- 
boiled egg's chopped. 

Mbs. EtTOENE Qiniun. 



.,.,GooqIc 



STUFFED CELERY SALAD. 

StufF celery stalks with cream cheese to which has been added 
Yt cupful chopped celery, pimentoes, olives and heavy cream 3 
tablespooafnlsi' Season, serve on lettuce leaves, garnish with 
""' " s and serve with French dressing-. 



Mix 1/a teeepoonfiil each of mustard, salt, a few grains cayenne, 
and 5 tablespoontuls olive oil. Add. gradnnlly, 2 tablespoonfiils 
vinegar and bind well. 

Mrs. W. B. R. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Bemove meat from a 2-pound lobster, cut in pieces and 
marinate with French dressing. Just before serving add may- 
onnaise and serve in lobster shell on bed of lettuce, and garnish 
with mayonnaise. 

Mayonnaise DresMng. 

Mix Vi teaspoonful each of mustard, salt, and a few grains of 
cayenne; add 1 egg yolk and gradually 1 cupful olive oil and 2 
tablespoonfuls vinegar. 

Mrs. W. B. B. 

ORANGE HINT SALAD. 

Remove pulp from 4 large oranges, sprinkle with 2 tablespoon- 
fuls powdered sugar, add 2 tablespoonfuls finely chopped mint, 
and 1 tablespoonful each of lemon juice and sherry. Chill 
thoroughly, serve in glasses, and garnish each with a sprig of 
mint. Makes 6 g-lasses. 

Mrs. W. B. B. 

TOMATO AND CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Lay in a dish a nice crisp bed of lettuce, on it place slices of 
cucumbers, then tomatoes, and garnish the whole with radishes 
(cut like roses). Serve with French dressing. 

Mrs. W. B. B. 

EGG SALAD. 

Boil 6 eggs fifteen minutes, after which separate yolks from 
whites and put euch through potato masher. Make a nest of 
crisp lettuce leaves; into it put first the white then the yolk Of 
the egg and serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

Mrs, W. B. B. 



.,Ciooj^Ic 



MARTIN SALAD. 

Arrange around a slice of cold boiled halibnt, sliced tomato, 
slices boiled potato sprinkled with chopped parsley aod French 
beans and peas; marinate all with cream dressiag. 

Cream DrCBsing. 

Mix 1 teaspDonfnl mustard, 1 teaspoonful salt, 3 teaspoonfuls 
flour, a few graina cayenne; add 1 teaspoonful melted butter, 
tbe yolk of 1 egg, and % cupful hot vinegar slonly. Cook over 
boiling water until mixture thickens, cook and add '/j cupfuV 
cream beaten until stiS. 



Eggs. 

; them; boiled or fried, or dropped ( 



DEVILED EGGS. 

Five hard-boiled eggs, butter the size of an English walnut,. 
y, pint milk, 2 teaspoonfuls cornstarch, 1 heaping tablespoonful 
grated cheese, small coffeespoonful dry mustard. Take spKionfuI 
olive oil, salt, red and black pepper; mix the yolks, the mustard, 
olive oil, and condiments together in a bowl with beck of silver 
spoon. Put into chafing dish the milk, the butter with which 
the cornstarch has been mixed, the whites of the ^gs cut up' 
very fine, and a little salt; stir constantly until boiling hot. In 
the meanlime let some one spread thick on slices of buttered 
toast the paste, over which scatter the grated cheese. Over this 
pour the hot white sauce and serve. 

Mbb. A- S. BUNTOtr, 
SPANISH OMELET. 
One small onion, 1 dozen mushrooms, 1 small piece of ham, 
tomatoes to taste (about 1 cupful), salt and pepper and butter 
the size of a walnut; stew together in a pan. Make an omelet 
of 4 eggs beaten slightly with a spoon, '/j tea-spoonful salt, Va- 
saltspoonful of pepper. 4 tablespoonfuls of milk or cream', all well, 
mixed. Just before folding add filling. 

MB8.iy.. D. Feltow. 

BAKED EGGS ON TOAST. 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and spread on *, 
slice of buttered toast. Drop the yolks of the eggs into the 
center of the whites without breaking. Place in a very hot. 
oven until ihe whites are nicely browned. 

Mrs. Ckaiiles' J.. Staples. 



., Google 



BREAD. 



CORN MUFFINS. 

Seat i eggs light, add 1 pint of milk and have 1 pint of fioiir, 

1 pint of Indian meal, >^ cupful of sugar, 1 teaapoonful soda, 

2 teaEpoonfuls cream of tartar, welt mixed and sifted; add egga 
and milk, stirring well. Bake twenty minutes in buttered 
muffin pans. Two dozen mufHns can be made with tbe quan- 
tity given. N. A, H. 

SALLY LUNH. 
One cupful milk, 2 table spoonfuls melted butter, 1 egg, pinch. 
salt, 2 cupfuts flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 2 teaspoon- 
fuls sugar. Mrs. Georoe H. Chandler. 

SQUASH BISCUIT. 
One cupful squash, stewed and sifted, 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
1% cupfuls scalded milk, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 tablespoonful but- 
ter, % cupful yeast, flour enough to kneacl it. Mix the sugar and 
salt with the squash, add the butter melted in the hot milk, 
and when cool add the yeast and flour. Knead fltteen minutes, 
let it rise till light, knead, and shape into loaves or biscuit. 
When well risen bake. 

Mbs. Gharus J. Staples. 

SOUR CRBAH MUFFINS. 
One cupful flour, 1 cupful rich sour cream, i/i cupful com meal, 

Vs cupful sugar, 1 egg, l^ teaspoonful soda, '/x teaspoonful salt, 
1 tablespoonful melted butter. 

Mrs. Alonzo Eu^iott. 

RAISED MUFFINS. 
Two eggs, % cupful butter, scant half cupful sugar, 1 pint . 
warm milk, % cake yeast in % cupful warm water, flour enougl) 
to make quite a stifF batter (about 5 cupfuls). Bise about !^ . 
bouTB and dip into muffin tins and bake. 

Mrs. Johh J. Donahue. 

PARKER HOUSE JOHNNY CAKE. 

Mix I cupful flour, I cupful Indian meal, 1'/^ tcaspoanfuls 
cream tartar, 1 teaspoonful soda and 1 teaspoonful salt together; 
mix 1 egg, y^ cupful sugar, butter the size of an egg, and 1 cup- 
ful warm milk together. Pour liquid into dry mixture, beat 
well and bake. 

Mrs. John J. Doitahue. 



^.ioog Ic 



MUFFINS. 

One quart of flour, 2 cupfuls milk, y, cupful sugar, 2 egrga, 2 
teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, 1 teaspoonful soda, V4 teaspoonful 
salt, butter the size of an egg; mix the other dry ingredients 
with the flour and rub through a sieve, melt the butter with 4 
tablespoonfula of boiling water, beat the eggs light and add 
the milk, stir into the flour and add the butter; beat thoroughly. 
Bake in buttered mufCn pans from twenty-five to thirtj- min- 
utes in a quick oven. 

Mrs. Charles J. Stapi.e8. 

COFFEE MUFFINS. 
Prepare 1 cupful of strong coffee with sugar and cream as for 
breakfast, except a, little sweeter; mix Vs cupful of any cooked 
cereal, ly, cnpfuls bread flour, a little salt, 3 teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder; beat 1 egg light and add it to the coffee, quickly 
stir It into the dry mixture. It should be a stiff drop batter 
rather than a dough. Bake in hot muffin pan or ring.s, about 
twenty minutes. This is a convenient and attractive way of 
using up a small portion left over of the breakfast cereal. 

Mtas Emua Varney. 

RYE GEMS. 

Two cupfuls rye flour, 3 mixing spoonfuls white flour, 3 tea- 
spoonfuls cream of tartar <rubbed in rye flour), 1 teaspoonful 
soda dissolved in milk, a little sugar and salt and last add 3 eggs. 
One half of this quantity makes ten or more muffins. 

Mrs. a. S. Buktob'. 
JOHNNY CAKE. 

One and one half cnpfuls wheat flour, '/j cupful Indian meal, 
% cupful sugar, 1 egg, 3 heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
1 small teaspoonful of salt, a small piece of butter; mix with 
sweet milk thin enough to run from spoon. 

Mrs. J. G. Lovejoy. 

POP-OVERS. 

One cupful bread flour, 14 teaspoonful salt, 1 egg beaten 
lightly, add 1 cupful milk and mix thoroughly. Bake in iron 
gem pans full one half hour. 

Mrs. Florence Fisher. 

BROWN BREAD. 

One cupful rye raeal, 1 cupful corn meal, Vj cupful molasses, 
1 teaspoonful baking powder, Vi teaspoonful salt, raisins if 
desired, and mixed to a thin batter with cold water. This makes 
a pound coffee ean full when done. Cover closely and placB 
in a larger pail of water and steam three or four hours in oven. 
Mrs. Florescb Fibher. 



21 
BROWN BREAD. 



One pint Iiiilian meal. 1 pint rye meal, 1 pint sour milk, 1 cup- 
ful molasses, I'/j teaspoon f tils soda. 1 teaspoonfiil salt; steam 4 

Mrs. Z. F. Campbell. 

FRIED INDIAN MUFFINS. 

One pint Indian' meal, 1 pint boiling: water, 1 teaspoonful salt, 
1 teaspoonful sugar; pour boiling water over gradually and 
beat thoroughly aod set away in a cool place. In the morning 
add 2 eggs and 1 heaping spoonful of ftonr well beat«n. Dip a 
tablespoon in cold milk, fill it with batter and drop into hot fat. 
Cook ten minutes and serve with hot melted maple sugar. 

N. A. H. 



PASTRY AND PIES. 



PUFF PASTE. 

Take y^ pound of butter (wash in three or four waters and pat 
out the water), and 1 pint of flour; set them on ice over night. 
In the morning mix flour with a piece of the butter the size of 
at» egg, add water and yolk of egg; divide remaining butter into 
B parts; roll out dough six times, each time spreading with 1 
part of butter. Set on ice again to cool and make into putTs or 
tarts. The oven mu^t be qnite hot but not near as hot as you 
Tvould have for biscuits. Put the yolks of eggs into measuring 
cup and beat up, adding ice water to nearly half fill cup. The 
dryer you can keep the dough the better the pastry. In making 
tarts, cool on ice after they are all ready for oven, but with pufiEs 
you cannot cool after the sauce is put in them, for they would 
sOak. Always let the pastry, after it is all done, set in the oven 
with the oven door wide open, as this helps to make it rise. 

Mrs. a. S. Bunton. 

PUFF PASTE FOR PASTRY CUPS. 

Wash Vz pound butter, rub 1 lablespoonful in ^^ pound flour, 
add cold water enough to make a stiff dough. Eoll out, fold in 
remaining butter, and roll several times, until butter is mixed 
with the dough. 



.,CioogIc 



Sweetbreads and Mushrooms. ■ 

Cook % pound of mushrooms in 3 tablespooiifuls of butter five . 
minutes; add 3 tablespoonfuls flour and I'/s cupfuls cream. 
Season with salt and pepper and add 1 sweetbread which has 
beeu cooked and cut in pieces. 

Mm. E. M. SuiYTos. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Four pounds beef, 4 pounds raisins chopped, 3 pounds citron, 
B pounds suet, 1 pound currants, 4 pounds light brown sugar, 1 
quart molasses, juice of 3 lemons, 2 candied lemons chopped 
fine, 3 nutmegs, 2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon, 2 tablespoonfuls 
ealt, l"/s tablespoonfuls cloves, 1 quart brandy. Use one third 
of this mixture to two thirds apple. 

Mbs. Z. F. Caupbell. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Obserfe the following proportions as nearly as convenient: 
Three pounds of meat (the round), 4 pounds apple, 3 pounds 
raisins (chopped), 1 cupful citron, Vi cupful molasses, S cupfuls 
sugar, ] cupful butter, S scant tablespoonfuls spice as follows: 
2 of mace, 2 of cloves, 1 of cinnamon and allspice. Moisten with 
the meat liquor. If not moist enough add coffee, also crab- 
apple jelly 2 jars and 1 cupful boiled cider. Mix chopped appl» 
and meat with 3 tablespoonfuls of salt. When cooked add 3 
cupfuls of brandy. Always add sugar, bits of butter, nutmeg, 
and whole raisins when making a pie. 

Mrs. E. L. Kiubau. 

LEMON PIE. 

One half cupful sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls flour, yolks of 4 eggs, 
butter size of a small walnut, juice and rind of 1 lemon; alt this 
stirred together. Just before putting into the crust, add a, 
cupful of milk and the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. This 
makes two ordinary pies. 

Mrs. Jonjt J. Donahue. 

MOCK CHERRY PIE. 

One cupful of cranberries chopped fire, 1 cupful sugar, 1 cup- 
ful boiling water, '/^ cupful raisins chopped fine, 1 large tca/- 
spoonful flour, 1 small teaspoonful vanilla, and a small piece of 
butter. Mbs. J. G. Lovejoy. 

Beat California Brandy for mince meat can be bought at P. 
Harrington's, Lake Avenue. 



CREAM OR COCOANUT PIE. 

A small lump of butfpr, 1 cupful sugar, 2 eggs, y^ ciiptul water, 
I'/i Pupfuls flour, I teaapoonfiil cream tartHr, y, teaspoonful Boda, 
Bake in two round tins. 

FllUng for Same. 

One half cupful sugfar, '/^ cupful flour. 1 egg; beat egg, stir in 
sugar and flour, then stir in V& pint boiling milk anil 2 spoon- 
fuls cocoanut. Make frosting for outside; sprinkle with coeoa- 
nut. Miss Annie B. Chandler. 

FANCY PIE. 

Two eggs, 1 cupful sugar, 1 cupfnl milk, 2 large tablespoon ful» 
of butter, 2 cupfnls flour, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 tea- 
spoon ful lemon. 



. One cupful cream, 2 cupfuls brown sugar, 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 
Boil until it hairs and beat until the right consistency. 

Mas. A. S. BfNTow. 

LEMON PIE. 

The grated rind and juice ot 1 lemon, 1 cupful sugar, 1 tea- 
spoonful flour, and y-, cupful of milk and 1 egg, pieces of b&tter 
on top. This makes one pie to be baked with two crusts. 

Mrs. Fi.or£HCB Fishbr. 



PUDDINGS. 

"The proof of the pudding lies in the eating." 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Three cupfuls of milk, 1 cupful breadcrumbs, 3 teaspoonfnia 
of grated chocolate, and let the three come to a boil. Beat the 
yolks of 3 eggs and 1 cupful of sugar and stir into the miictnre, 
flavor with vanilla, bake slowly flfteen minutes; beat the v 
of the eggs until stiti with a little powdered sugar and I 
in the oven. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

Mrs. E. M. Simm< 

STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One egg, Vs cupful milk. V^ cupful sugar, 1 cupful flour, 
spoonful baking powder, 1 squ.Tre chocolate, melted, 1 
spoonful butter. Steam 1 hour. 



.,G(>ogIc 



Two thirds cupful sugar, yolks of 2 eggs beaten aod stirred 
with sugar; cook ten or fifteen minutes. When ready to serve, 
adcl beaten whites of eggs and flavoring. 

Mrs. Geobge H. WARREas. 

SNOWBALL PUDDING. 

One cupful sugar, y^ cupful butter, 2 cupfuis fiour, 1 cupful 
milk, whites of 4 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Steam in 
cups about thirty-five minutes. 



Six tablespoonfuls sugar, 3 table spoonfuls hutter, 1 cupful 
strawberry juice or crushed strawberries. Heat in double boiler, 
Mas. D. D. Felton. 

FRENCH BREAD PUDDING. 



^t of boiled custard and cover with r 
ringue; brown the meringue am] serve cold; or, put the prepared 
bread in a buttered mold lined with macaroons, cover with the 
custard, steam one hour and serve hot. 

Mrs. Charles J. Staples. 

FIG PUDDING. 

Cream Vi cupful butter, add % cupful sugar, 2 beaten eggs, 1 
cupful milk, Yj cupful molasses. 2'/^ cupfuis fiour which has been 
sifted with 4 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 teaspoonful cinna- 
mon, Yi teaspoonful nutmeg, and Yi teaspoonful salt; then add 
1 pound chopped figs, 2 tablespoonfuls currants, and i^ cupful 
flour. Steam three hours in a large mold, or 1% hours in small 
molds. 

Mrs. E. M. Slatton. 

FIG PUDDING. 

One cupful molasses, 1 cupful chopped suet (fine), 1 cupful 
milk, 3Vt cupfuis flour, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoonful soda, 1 teaspoonful 
cinnamon, y^ teaspoonful nutmeg, 1 pint figs; mix molasses, 
Kuet, spice, and figs (cut fine) together, dissolve soda with 1 
tablespoonful of hot water and mi.\ with milk; add to other in- 
gredients. Beat eggs light and stir in mixture, add flour and 
heat thoroughly, butter dish and steam five hours. Serve with 

^iiss Annie B. Chandler. 



b,GoogIc 



PEACH PUDDING. 

Line u dish with sliced peaches, slightly sweetened, cover with 
baked custard. If served with whipped cream, soak peaches in 
sherry wine a little while before mixing. 11 sherry wine is 
omitted, then use claret sauce. 

Mb8. Alonzo Elliott. 

WHOLE WHEAT PUDDING. 

Mix S cupfuls whole wheat flour, % teaspoonlul soda and Vi 
teaspoonful of salt. Add 1 cupful of milk, Va a cupful of mo- 
lasses, and 1 cupful of stoned and chopped raising, or 1 cupful 
of ripe berries. Steam two hours and a half and serve with 
whipped cream or any plain pudding sauce. One cupful of dates, 
figs, stewed prunes, or chopped apples make a pleasing variety. 
This is very nice for children and invalids. 

MRfi. Charles J. Staples. 

RAILROAD PUDDING. 

One cupful raisins, chopped fine, 1 cupful suet, 1 cupful mo- 
lasses, 1 cupful milk, 1 teaspoonful soda, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful all 
kinds spices, 1 cupful walnut meats, broken line, 3'/^ cupfuls 
flour. Steam three and one half hours. 

Miss Anjiie B. Chandler, 

BRANDY SAUCE. 

Cook 1 cupful ciich of .suijar and water until a thread is 
formed, beat 3 yolks of eggs, add 2 tablespoonfuls brandy, ^ 
cupful cream, % teaspoonful salt, add sugar and water and beat 
until thick. 

ilBS. E. M. Slayton. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

One fourth cupful butter, 1 cupful powdered sugar, 2 table- 
spoonfuls brandy, benten yolks of 2 eggs, '/s cupful cream. Cook 
over hot water until it begins to thicken, pour it over the beaten 
whites of 3 eggs; beat until well mi.xed. 

Mrs. Z, F. Campbell. 

BOILED SUET PUDDING. 

5 of flour, 2 cnpfuls suet, fine, 1 cnpful milk, 1 
and currants, 1 teaspoonful soda. 1 tea- 
c flour and suet together and add other 
Steam three hours. 

Fine Cognac Brandy at E. Quirin's. 

, Google 



One eupful brown sugar, % cupful butter, 1 tablespoonful 
flour beat to a cream; add 3 gills boiling water. Stir till it 
boils ai^ add flavoring. 

Mrs. W. K. Bobbins. 

ORANGE CREAM PUDDING. 

Whip 1 pint of cream until there is but one half the quantity 
left when skimmed ofl; soak in '/s cupful water, % bos gelatine, 
and grate over it the rind of 2 oranges; strain the juice of six 
oranges and add 1 cupful sugar. Now put y^ pint cream in 
double boiler, pour into it the well-beaten yolks of 6 eggs, 
stirring until it begins to thicken, then add the gelatine. Re- 
move from the fire and let stand for two minutes and add the 
orange juice and sugar; beat all together until the consistency 
of soft custard and add the whipped cream; mix well and turn 
into molds to harden. To be served with, whipped cream. 

Miss Annie B. Chardlek. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 

One pint milk, y^ cupful sugar, IVj tablespoonfuls of flour, 
yolks of 3 eggs. Place 1 can of pineapple in glass dish with y^ 
cupful sugar; pour over the cream and frost with the whites of 
the eggs beaten to a stiff cream with a little sugar jnst before 
serving. This can be used with sliced oranges, using 1 cupful 
of sugar and allowing custard to get cold before pouring over 
the oranges. 

Mrs. F1.0BESCE Fisher. 

BANANA PUDDING. 

Make orange jelly with ^ bos Nelson's gelatine, % cupful 
cold water, y^ cupful boiling water, juice of 1 lemon, 1 cupful 
orange juice, y^ cupful sugar. Line a mold with slices of banana, 
then a layer of thinly sliced bread soaked in jelly, and so on 
till mold is fnll. Pour the remainder of jelly over all and set in 
cold place. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Florence Fisher, 

CRANBERRY PUDDING. 

One cupful sugar, y, cupful butter, ^ eggs, y, cupful sweet 
milk, :iV4 cupfuls flour, 1 feaspoonful soda, 2 teaspoontuls cream 
of tartar, 2 cupfuls cranberries. Steam two and one half hours 



b,GoogIc 



CrMmjr Sauce. 

Beat to a cream % cupful butter, gradually add 1 cii-pful pow- 
dered sugar, beating all the while. When light and creamy, add 
1 tcBspoonful of lemon or vanilla, then gradually add '/« cupful 
of cream or milk. When all is beatea smootb. place the bowl 
in a basin of hot water and stir until It is smooth and creamy, 
white and foamj-, but no longer, 

Mrs, E. M. Slavtom. 

STEAMED CHERRY PUDDING. 

One pint ftoiir, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, y^ teaspoonful 
Boda, a little salt, butter the size of an eg-g, 1 cupful milk; roll 
thin, spread thick with cherries, roll up and steam 3 hours. 
Serve cold sauc-e with it. 

Mrs. Z. F. Campbell. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

One quart milk, reserve 1 cupful, scald the remainder, add :) 
tablespoonfuls com meat, which has been wet up with a little 
cold milk. Stir this into the hot milk, boil two minutes, add 1 
cupful molasses, the remainder of cold milk and y^ cupful of cold 
water. When thoroughly mixed add 1 egg which has been 
beaten; put in buttered-dish and bake .'J'/z hours in slow oven. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

Mh8. Z. F. Campbell. 

GRAHAM PUDDING. 

One and one half cupfuls graham Hour, I cupful molassea. 1 
cupful milk, 1 cupful raisins, chopped, '/a cupful currants, 1 tea- 
spoonful soda. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 1 teaspoonful all kinds 
spices. Steam two and one half hours. 

Miss Annik B. CriAKDLER. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

One half pound of prunes, stew and then sift them: beat the 

whites of 5 eggs until stiff, add y^ cupful sugar; mix all tn- 

gether, put in pudding dish and bake fifteen minutes. Serve 

cold with whipped cream. 

Mrs. K. M. S^.AYTo^. 

CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING. 

One brick loaf baker's bread soaked over night in 1 quart of 
milk; add salt. 34 bowlful chapped suet, % bowlful light brown 
sugar, 1 bowlful raisins, chopped and stoned. V4 bowlful cur- 
rants, egg-K. nutmeg and other spicea It you like. Bake slowly 
three or four hours. This makes a iiirge pudding, to be served 
with cold sauce. 

JfRS. L. W. CoLBV. 



.,Gooj^Ic 



SALEM PUDDING. 

One cupful cho|ipeil suet, 1 cupful milk, 3Vi cupfuls flour, 1 
cupful raisins, 2 teaBpoonfuls cream of tartar, 1 leaEpoonful 
soda, 1 leaspoonful cloves antl salt. Steam four hours. 

Mrs, L. W. Colby. 



ORA>|^ PUDDING. 
ges, / oM It e I 



Jj, >-T-i' Five sweet orauges, / immc cupful white sugar, 1 pint of 
' milk, yolks of 3 eggs, i taSlespoonful of cornBtarch; |>eel and 

take out the orange pulp and remove the seeds, pour about % 
of the sugar over the oraoges anti the rest into the milk. Set 
milk in double boiler; when hot add a small piece of butter, stir 
into the milk the beaten yolks and cornstarch; when cool flavor 
with vanilla and pour this mixture over the orange. Beat whites 
of eggs to a stiff froth, add 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, spread 
over the top and set in the oven to brown. To be eaten cold. 
Mrs, L. W. Colby. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

The yolks of 3 eggs beaten with 9 spoonfuls white sugar, 
juice of 3 lemons, 1 tablespoonful cornstarch, S teaspoonfuls 
melted butter, a small tumbler of sweet milk. Make crust and 
line the dish with it, add the mixture and bake. When baked 
beat whites of the 3 eggs with 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Spread 
over the top and return to the oven and brown slightly. 

Mrs. L. W. Colby. 

SARATOGA PUDDING. 

One pint milk, 1 tablespoonful melted butter, 3 tablespoonfuls 
sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls flour, 5 eggs, leaving out the whites of 3 
for frosting, a little salt. Bake about '/^ hour in a buttered 
pudding dish; remove from oven and frost. Beat whites of 3 
eggs with a little sugar for frosting. Brown lightly in oven. 
Mes. John J. Donahue- 

DARK PUDDING. 

One cupful of bread crumbs, 1 cupful of molasses, 1 cupful of 
raisins, t eggs, 1 teaspoonful cloves, 2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon, ^/^ 
cup chopped citron, 1 quart milk, Va cupful melted butter, 1 tea- 
spoonful of soda in a little milk added and well stirred into the 
mixture just before putting into the oven. Bake three or four 
hours in a moderate oven, stirring often until the last half hour. 
Serve hard sauce with it. 

Mrs. M. a. Holtob. 



.,CioogIc 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, AND JELLIES. 

"Feed of the dainties, which are bred in a book." 

CUSTARD SOUFFLE. 

One pint milli, '/a tupful sugar, Va cupful itour (g-ood); piat 
milk, sugfar, and flour in double boiler and let cook like soft 
custard. Take oil and put in butter the size of S English wal- 
nuts and stir until smooth; put in pan of cold water and stir 
until cold, then add well-beaten yolks of i egrgs and then whites 
beaten stiff. Put in buttered pudding dish, set in pan of boiling 
water and bake thirtynDne minutes. Serve with either hard 

Miss Annie B. Chandler. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

One half l>o.\ of gelatine dissolved in 1 cupful of cold water 
ten minutes; add 1 cupful boiling water, set over teakettle until 
dissolved. One half cupful grated chocolate boiled in 1 cupful 
of milk or cream, yolks of 2 eggs with 3 great spoonfuls of 
sugar stirred in last. 

Mrs. C. L- RicHABDsofi. 

COFFEE CREAM. 

Same as chocolate cream, except 1 cupful of cold coffee and 1 
cupful of milk in place of chocolate. 

Mks. C. L. Richardson. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 
Cover l^ cupful of tapioca with water and let stand over night. 
Jn the morning pour off water, if any, and put tapioca in 1 
quart milk, over fire, in double boiler. When it comes to a boil 
stir in yolks of i eggs, well beaten with i table spoonfuls of sugar 
and a little salt; continue stirring until it thickens to the con- 
sistency desired. Spread over top the whites well beaten with 4 
taWespoonfuls sugar; brown in oven. 

Mess Anme B. Chandler. 

PINEAPPLE AU KWSCHWASSER. 

Peel and slice a large pineapple, place in a dessert dish and 
pour over it a thick syrup flavored (when cool) with 2 table- 
spoonfuls Kwschwasser or Frapin's cognac. Serve cold. 

Mrs. Eugene Qcirin. 

Buy Frapin's Cognac of E. Qutrin. 

, Google 



APPLES WITH CREAM. 

One half jiiiit whipped cream, 6 tart apples, peeled, cored, and 
cut in ratliur thick Elice»>, spread slices with mixture of butter 
and flour ci('.ial parts; put whipped cream in chafing dish, 
sweeten to i;iste, add 3 tablespoonfuls of sherry, or more; 
when nci.rK' Uoiiing- add apples, cook until tender. 

Mrs. Jaues W. Hili.. 

MACAROON SOUPPL^. 

Make a sauce of 3 tableepoonfuls butter, ^ cupful flour, and 1 
cupful milk. Beat the yolks of 4 eggs until thick, add % cupful 
sugar, '/a cupful powdered macaroons which have been soaked 
in sherry, and 2 tablespoonfulB sherry. Combine mixtures; add 
Vi teaspoonful vanilla and out and fold in the whites of 4 eggs 
beaten stiff. Put in buttered baking dish, sprinkle with maca- 
roons and bake. Serve with creamy sauce. 

Creamy Sauce. 

Cream 14 cupful butter, and gradually add Vs cupful powdered 
sugar, 3 table spoonfuls thin cream, and 2 tablespoonfuls sherry. 
Mbs. W. B. B. 
ORANGE CREAM. 

One cupful sweet cream, whipped, juice of 3 oranges, 3 table- 
spoonfuls sugar, juice of 1 lemon, grated rind of 1 orajige; mix 
&11 together and add 3 tablespoonfuls gelatine dissolved in 1 
cupful boiling water; stir all together and set on ice. Turn out 
whole and serve with or without cream. 

Mrs. Geoooe H. Chandler. 

PINEAPPLE CHARLOTTE. 

Two teaspoonfuls Enox*B gelatine, soak in % of a cupful of 
cold water ten minutes, then add Vs cupful of boiling water; stir 
in 1 cupful of sugar until it is thoroughl3' dissolved and the juice 
of 1 lemon, then add 1 cupful of shredded pineapple; stir this 
all together and set it away to cool. Before it is quite cold stir 
in Vi pint whipped cream. 

Mrs. Frank LrviNosTON. 

ORANGE CHARLOTTE. 

Soak I'/a tablespoonfuls granulated gelatine in '/a cupful cold 
water, dissolve in "/g cupful boiling water, strain, add 1, cupful 
sugar, 1i tablespoonfuls lemon juice, 1 cupful orange juice and 
pulp. Chill and when thick bent until frothy, then add the 
whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff, and the whip from S cupfuls cream. 
Line a mold with sections of oranges, turn in mixture, and chill, 
Mrs. W. B. B, 

Best of Sherry can be bought at P, Harrington's, Lake Avenue. 



ALMOND CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Beat yolks of 4 eggs until thick and light colored, add grad- 
ually 1 cupful powdered sugar, then fold in sliffly beaten whites 
of i eggs, '/a cupful grated chocolate, '/, cupful blanched 
almonds, % cupful cracker crumbs mixed with 1 teaspoonful 
baking powder. Bake in buttered gem tins about twenty-five 
minutes, cut out center of each cake and fill with whipped cream 
sweetened and flavored, decorate the cream with candied, 
cherries. 

Mias Ansie B. Chandler. 

COFFEE FOAM. 

One cupful strong coffee, '/j cupful sugar, '/^ box gelatine, 
whites of 2 eggs, soak gelatine in Vx cupful cold water; wheu 
dissolved add the hot coffee and sugar. Let it stiffen but not get 
hard, then beat in, a spoonful at a time, the stiffly beaten whites 
of the eggs and mold. Serve with cream and sugar. 

Miss Emma Vauney. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

-Six oranges, 3 lemons, 6 quarts water; cut oranges and lemons 
very fine, remove seeds, cover with the 6 quarts water and let 
stand twenty-four hours. Cook all together until the rinds are 
soft, take off stove and let stand another twenty-four hours, 
then take 1 pint of mixture and 1 pint sugar at a time and boil 
twenty minutes, or till thick enough to pour into tumblers. 

Mrs. Georoe H. Chandler. 

PEACHES IN JELLY. 

One can of peaches cooked a little with Va cupful sugar, sepa- 
rate the peaches and sugar, soak the peaches in & little brandy; 
1 package Cox's gelatine in a cupful of cold water, soaked one 
hour, then add 1 lemon, juice and peel, 1 cupful boiling water, 2 
table spoonfuls of brandy, 1 cupful sugar and the syrup from 
the peaches. Stir the whole over a hot fire a minute until the 
gelatine is melted; strain twice through a flannel bag; put the 
peaches. in a mold and pour the jelly over them. Set in a cold 

Mrs. C. L. Richardson. 

CHESTNUTS WITH CREAM. 

After removing the shells and skins from 1 quart of English 
chestnuts, boil them flrst in water until tender, then in % cupful 
sugar, and 1 cupful water, until clear. Let them lie in the syrup 
till cold, then drain and pile them on a dish; boil the syrup down 
to a thick consistency and pour over the nuts. Serve cold with 
whipped cream. 

Mrs. Albert W. Thompson. 



.,CioogIc 



STEWED FIGS WITH JELLY AND CREAH. 

Wash IVj dozens whole figs, cover with boiling water and cook 
until tender drain the Rg'' from liquid reservingf the latter of 
which there should be 1 cupful Soften '/, of a i ounce packag-e 
of gelatine in % cupful n titer and dissohe in the liquid in which 
the figs were cooked add '/■> cupful sugar the juice of 1 lemon, 
and y^i cupful sherry or orange juice strain into a shallow dish, 
add % cupful powdered sugar and a few drops of vanilla extract 
to a cup of double (ream and beat solid to the bottom of the 
bowl Dispose the figs in the center of a serving dish surround 
with the jellj cut in cubes and the whipped cream 

Mtss \nbie B Chavdi-eb 

TIPSY PARSON 

Take slices of sponge cake and stick full of blanched almonds 
then iaj in a deep glats dish pour o\er enough wine to eoier 
cake When the wine has all been absorbed, fill the dish half 
full of foft custard Serie ^ery cold 

Miss Annie B, Chandler. 

ICE CREAMS AND SHERBETS. 

"This same dessert is pleasant." 



PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

Put 1 can of shredded pineapple in bowl and pour over it 1 
cupful boiling water and let it cool; add the juice of 4 lemons 
and % of a pound of sugar and 1 tablespoonful of dissolved 
gelatine; freeze. 

Mrs. E. M. Simuons. 
PAFF£ KUSt. 
One quart cream, 1 cupful sugar, Vi box gelatine, 4 tablespoon- 
fuls rum, 4 tablespoonful s sherry, Ys pound cherries; pour rum 
over cherries and let stand a while, then wbip cream, add sugar, 
wine, gelafine dissolved in as little water as possible and rum. 
Place alternate layers of cherries and cream until mold is full; 
cover and set in eold place or pack in ice or snow. 

Mrs. Fi.orbnoe "Fisher. 

RASPBERRY MOUSSE. 
Flavor 1 pint cream with 3 tablespoonfuls sugar. % teaspoon 
vanilla, and 1 cupful raspberry or strawberry juice; dissolve 1 
heaping teaapoonful of Knox's gelatine in '/i "' a cupful cold 
water, add '/* cupful boiling water. When dissolved add to the 
fruit juice and whip all together with egg beater; put into eiose 
mold and pack in broken ice and salt for two or three hours. 
MBS. Grace Darlinci Simons. 
Finest of Wines to be found at P. Harrington's, Lake Avenue. 
J^ 



FRUIT ICE CREAM. 

One half can apricots sifted until the skitt is off, 3 bananas, vnb 
through sieve, juice of 2 oranges, 3 lemons, 3 cupfuls water, 1 
cupful or more of sugar, 1 cupful to 1 pint of cream, 

Mrs. D. D. Felton. 

CREHE D£ HENTHE ICE. 

Make a syrup by boiling -1 cuptuls i 
fifteen minutes; add V^ eiipful crenie 
and freeze. Serve in glasses. 

Mrs. W. B. B. 
GRAPE SHERBET. 

Concord grapes make best color. Two pounds grapes. Mash 
in strainer cloth and squeeiie unlit all the juice is extracted, 
measure and put an equal amount of water with it; add juice of 
3 lemons and sugar to make qnite sweet, at least 3 cupfuls. For 
freezing, chop ice very fine and take 1 part salt to 3 parts ice. 
Mks. D. D. Felton. 

LEMON MILK SHERBET. 

Juice of 3 lemons, add 1 pint of sugar, stir well and add 1 quart 
milk; freeze immediately. 

Mrs. Floeence Fisher. 



Juice of 5 lemons, I'/j pints sugar, 1 quart water, 1 tableapoon- 
ful gelatine soaked in cold water; take 1 cupful water out of 
the quart and let come to a boil and then put in juice 2 oran^^es. 
Miss Annie B. Chandler. 

COFFEE FRAPP6. 

One quart cream, 1 cupful powdered sugar, 1 teaspoonful 
vanilla, whip very stifE; divide the cream into equal parts, into 
one beat '^ cupful strong, black coffee; put the whipped cream 
into the bottom of a mold; hold the cream with the coffee in it 
over the mold and pour it directly into the center of the whipped 
cream, so forcing the while cream up around the sides of the 

Miss Annie B. Chandler. 

RASPBERRY BOMB. 



Custard Sauce for Same. 

niik, % cupful sugar, and the yolks 
Mrs. W. B. B. 

, Google 



MAPLE BISQUE. 

To 1 cupful tniiple syrup add the beaten yolks of * eggs; cook 
carefully in a granite dish, stirring until it boils; remove from' 
the fire and strain through a fine wire strainer and set aside- 
to cool; prepare this several hours before the bisque is to be- 
irazen. Beat 1 pint of thick cream till thickened nearly all 
through and add to it the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. 
Now whip the syrup until light and stir all ingredients together.. 
Put in molds and pack in ice and salt to freeze, allowing three or 
four hours, or freeze in ice cream freezer. 

Misa Emua Vabmey. 
GLACE. 

Make a rich lemonade or any fruit syrup, freeze, line a mold' 
with it about an inch thick, fill cavity with any bavarian cream\ 
and cover with sherbet. Pack in ice and salt two hours. 

Mrs. Jaues W. Hill. 

CRANBERRY FRAPPE WITH ROAST TURKEY. 

Wash and clean 1 quart of cranberries and put on to boil in I 
quart of water; when soft strain and press the pulp through; 
add 2 cupfuls sugar and boil again a minute; add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of lemon juice and more sugar if needed. Freeze until like- 
sberbef. 

Mrs. W. B. Eckpix:. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

One quart thick cream, '/i pint milk, 1 cupful sugar, 1 table- 
spoonful or more of vanilla extract; with this serve sauce of 
maple syrup boiled a little, into which is put chopped raisins, figs,, 
and English walnuts. 

Mrs. W. B. Burpee. 



CAKE AND LAYER CAKE. 

"What, pound cake? The toothsome cake of our grandmas." 

WEDDING CAKE. 

One pound each of butter, sugar, and flour, 9 eggs, 3 pounds, 
of raisins, 3 of currants, Va pound of citron, 1 pint currant wine 
(or almost any acid wine); no soda or baking powder used. 
Take a pint measure and put in about '/s ounce each of almond 
and clove fluid extract, and 1 ounce each of cinnamon, nutmeg, 
and vanilla extract (these liquids are included in the pint of' 
wine). Cream the butter and sugar, beaten yolks, beaten whites, 
flour, and fruit, and 3 ounces of lemon extract. This makes two ■ 
loaves; bake in a moderate oven two hours. 

Mas. E. M. Si^YTON. 



BERRY CAKE. 

One cupful sugar, 2 cupfuls flour, % cupful milk, '^ cupful 
butter, '/a teaspoonful soda, 3 eggs; add berries to suit the taste. 
Mes. L. W. Colby. 

CILMANTOK CUP CAKE. 

One cupful butter, 2 cupfula sugar, 3 cupfuls flour, ■/, cupful 
each cream and milk, 4 eggs, 1 wineglassful of brandy or wine, 

1 teaspoonful clove, cassia, and nutmeg, 1 small teaspoonful 
soda, IVi cupfuls chopped raisins. 

Mbs. L. W. Colby. 

SOUR APPLE SAUCE CAKE. 

One cupful granulated sugar, y^ cupful butter, 1% cupfuls 
flour, 1 cupful raisins chopped, 1 teaspoonful cassia, y^ teaspoou- 
lul clove, '/i teaspoonful nutmeg, a pinch of salt. Put 1 tea- 
spoonful of soda in a tablespoonful of water, and when well 
dissolved pour in a cup and flll the cup with sour apple sauce; 
mix the spices with the flour, dry and add raisins. Part butter 
and beef drippings make It very nice. 

Alice M. Drew. 
STAR CAKE. 

One and three fourths pounds of flour, I'/z pounds white sugar, 
% pound of butter. 3 pounds of fruit, raisins, and currants, '/> 
pint sour mitk, Vi pi»t sherry wine, y^ teaspoonful soda, 5 eggs, 

2 nutmegs. This makes two large loaves. 

Mrs. L. W. Colby. 
ORANGE CAKE. 

One and one half cupfuls sugar, 2 cupfuls flour, '/, cupful 
■water, yolks of 5 eggs, whites of 3 eggs, 1 teaspoonful cream of 
tartar, Vi teaspoonful soda, a little salt, the grated rind and 
juice of 1 orange; beat the yolks Ave minutes and add sugar 
gradually, then add other ingredients. Bake in three tins and 
put together with the following frosting (and also on top of 

Whites of 2 eggs, juice and rind of 1 orange, frosting sugar 
to make quite still. 

Mrs. Oeobge H. Chandler. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

Whites of 11 eggs beaten stiil, 1% cupfuls sugar, 1 cupful 
bread flour and a rounding teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Sift 
tbe flour, sugar, and cream of tartar together five or six times, 
then fold gradually into the beaten whites and add 1 teaspoonful 
of almond extract. Bake in a pan, not buttered, for fifty min- 
utes, in a slow oven. 

Mrs. Charles 3. Staples. 



oOOglc 



RIBBON CAKE. 

' One cupful butter, 2 cupfuU sugar, 4 egga, yoljcs and vrhitea 
beaten sdparately, 1 cupful miik, 3Va. cupfuls paatr; flour, y, 
teaspoonful soda, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. Have three 
lon^, shallow pans of equal size, divide the dough into three 
parts, bake two parts as plain cake. Add to the remaining 
dough % cupful of raiaina, stoned and chopped, 1 cupful of cur- 
rants, % pound citron, the fruit ail floured, 2 teaspoonfuls mo- 
lasses, 2 teaspoonfuls brandy or wine, 1 teaspoonful mixed mace 
and cinnamon. Bake and put the fruit cake between the two 
plain cakes, with jelly between. Press it lightly with the 
hand in putting together; trip the edges even and frost. Be 
sure to cream the butter and augar well and add the whites last. 
Mrs. Chablbs J. STAPLia. 

BUTTERCUP CAKE. 

Three fourths cupful butter, ly, cupfuls sugar, yolks of 8 eggs, 

I whole egg, '/^ cupful milk, 2 cupfuls flour, y^ teaspoonful soda, 
IVt teaspoonfuls cream- of tartar, 1 saltspoonful mace or 1 tea- 
spoonful orange extract; mix in the order given and bake in two 
pans in a moderate oven till the loaf shrinks from the pan, or 
bake in small round tins, and frost with yellow frosting and 
decorate with candied fruit. I often use my eleven yolks after 
making angel cake, and put iii a few currants, chopped raisins, 
and citron, well floured. This makes a nice, light fruit cake. 

Mrs. Charles J. Staples. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

This is almost exactly like angel cake. Have the whites of 

II eggs and yolks of 6, ly^ cupfuls of granulated sugar meas- 
ured after one sifting, 1 cupful flour measured after one sifting, 
1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar and 1 teaspoonful of orange 
extract. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and gradually beat in 
the sugai;; beat the yolks in a simitsr manner and add to them 
the whites and sugar and th« flavor. Finally atir in the flour; 
mix quickly and well. Bake for flfty minutes in a slow oven, 
using a pan like that for angel cake. 

mbs. crabiies J. Staples- 
hickory NUT CAKE. 

One cnpf ul broken hickory nuts, ly, cupfuls sugar, y^ cupful 
butter, 2 cupfuls flour, % of a cupful of sweet milk, 2 t«a8poan' 
fuls druggist's baking powder, whites of 4 eggs, well beaten, and 
add nuts last. 

Mrs. James W. Hill. 



One cupfiil sugar, 1 large tablespoonful butter, 1 egg and 
jolk of 1 egg, % cupful milk, 2 cupfula flour, 2 t«aspoonfula bak- 
ing powder, a little salt and flavoring; bake in a sheet or la gem 

Frosting for Same. 

One cupful sugar, y^ cupful water, boll until it threads. Take 
white of remaining egg, bent In platter and pour the ayrup over 
this; beat thoroughly. 

MiBS AinnE B. CRABia,iJi. 

FANCY CAKE. 

One cupful sugar, % cupful butter, 3 eggs, reserve the white ot 
one for frosting, Vi cupful milk, 1% cupfula flour, 1 teaspoontul 
baking powder. 



cupful maple sugar, 
inc. 
Mrs. M. a. Holtok. 

LILY CAKE. 

One half cupful butter. 1 cupful sugar, beaten to a cream, 
whites of 3 eggs, % cupful sweet milk, % teaspoonful soda, 1 
cupful flour, % cupful cornstarch, '/a teaspoonful cream of tartar, 



White of 1 egg, 1 coffee cupful powdered sugar, 1 teaspoonful 
cornstarch, flavor with orange or vanilla. 

Mrs. Mor^e. 

FROSTING AND FILLING FOR CAKE. 

One half cupful butter, 1 cupful powdered sugar, 3 tableapoonJ 
fuls cocoa, 2 tablespoonfuls coffee, 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Mrs. Md^BEL M. Cheney. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cupful sugar, % cupful butter, % cupful milk. '^ cupful 
chocolate dissolved in '/^ cupful boiling water. 2 eggs, 1 heaping 
cupful flour, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, % t«aapoonful soda. 



White FroBtrng. 

One cupful graaulated eugar, % cupful milk; boil fifteen min- 
uteE, stir until creamy. 

Mbs. Z. F. Caupbbli.. 



One cupful butter, 2 cupfuls sugar. 3 cupfuls flour, 1 cupful 
cold water, Vi teaspoonful soda, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
Mrs. Z. F. Campbell. 

CHOCOLATE MARBLE CAKE. 

Two cupfuls sugar, '/^ cupful butter, 1 cupful milk, 2 eggs, 
1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, '/a teaspoonful soda, SVi cupfuls 
flour, 1 teaspoonful Fauilla; dissolve 2 blocks of chocolate in a 
little water, add Ys cupful sugar, 2 large spoonfuls of the cake, 
stir well. Place a layer of white on the bottom, then streak 
the dark through it, white, then dark. 

Mas, F. A, Waixace. 

KUCHEN. 

(German Cake.) 

Two quarts bread flour, 2 cupfuls sug-ar, 1 cupful butter (or 
part butter and part sue!), salt, pinch mace, and a little grated 
lemon rind; mix all together and work in butter. Make a hole in 
the flour and add 1 yeast cake dissolved in '/i cupful lukewarm 
water, and a little sugar, 3 good-sized potatoes mashed; mix 
with lukewarm milk, the same as bread, and let rise over night. 
The next morning roll out thin, cover the top with melted but- 
ter and let rise again; when ready for the oven prick all over 
with a fork and spread on the cinnamon crumbs quite thick; 
bake. It should not be over l'/^ inches thick when done. Cut 

, Mrs. Reinmabd Heckek. 

CINNAMON CRUMBS. 

Two cupfuls pastry flour, I cupful sugar, 1 teaspoonful cinna- 
mon, butter to make it all soft so it will roll up like crumbs or 
little balls. A little lard can be used with the butter. Work the 
butter in with the fingers. 

Almonds for the Top. 

Blanch 1 cupful almonds, chop very fine, mis with % cupful 
sugar, spread on top instead of the cinnamon crumbs. 

Mrs. Beinhabd Heckeb. 



WALNUT CAKE. 

One balf cupful butter, 3 cupfuls sugar, I cupful milk, whites 
of 4 eggs, beaten stiff, 3 cupfuls flour, after sifting, 1 teaspoonful 
cream of tartar, V, teaspoonful soda, 1 cupful chopped nuts. 
This receipt makes one large or two small cakes. 

Mrs. F. a. Wallace. 

ROSE CAKE. 

One cupful sugar, % cupful molasses, Vj, cupful butter, 1 cupful 
raisins, 1 cupful sour milk, 1 egg, 2% cupfuls flour, 1 teaspoon- 
ful soda, a little clove and nutmeg. 

Mas. J. O. LovEJor. 

WHITE CAKE WITH YELLOW FROSTING. 

Rub 1 cupful sugar Hnd >/: cupful of butter to a cream, add the 
well-beaten whites of 3 eggs, Vi cupful sweet milk, 3 eren cup- 
fuls of flour, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, sifted with the 
flour. Flaror with lemon or vanilla. 

FroatiI^;. 

Beat the yolks of 3 eggs, add powdered sugar until quite thick. 
Mrs, J. G. LovEJOT. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING. 

One fourth cupful of sweet milk, 1 square of Baker's choc- 
olate; put in a dish over hot water and let it remain until it is 
as thick as custard, then stir in a small piece of butter, some 
Tanilla, and powdered sugar, enough to make it of the right 
consistency to be spread. 

Mrs. Frank C. Livinoston. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Cream Va cupful butter, add graduaUy 1 cupful sugar, mix and 
sift 1% cupfuls flour, SVa teaspoonfuls baking powder, and Vg 
teaspoonful salt. Add to butter and sugar alternately with '/j 
cupful milk, cut and fold in the whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff and 
dry; add % teaspoonful vanilla and bake in shallow pans twenty 
minutes. Frost with marsh ma How frosting. Melt Vj pound 
marshmallow in double boiler, add gradually to the white of 1 
egg beaten stiff, continuing beating until of the right consis- 
tency to spread and decorate with marsh mallows. 

Mrs. W. B. B. 
WHITE CAKE. 

1 cupful sugar, '/j cupful butter, whites of 3 eggs, '/^ cupful 
milk, % teaspoonful cream of tartar, V, teaspoonful soda, pinch 
salt, Ji/s cupfuls flour; flavor to taste. 

Mrs. John- J. Dosahde. 



.,Ciooj^Ic 



HOT WATER SPONGE CAKE. 

Two tggB well beaten, 1 cupful sugar, 1 cupful flour, 1 tea- 
spoonful cream of tartar well mixed with flour, 1 teaspoouful 
extract of lemon, 1 teaepoonful salt. Stir all tog'ether till quite 
Hmooth, add Vi cupful boiling water in which % teaspoonful of 
soda haa been dissolved; stir briskly and put in oven as soon as 
possible. 

Mbs. J. G. LovEJOT. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Two eggs beat«n together, 1 cupful sugar, I cupful flour, 1 
teaspoouful baking powder, % cupful hot milk, and small spoon- 
ful flavoring, mixed in order given. 

Mbs. Florence Fishbb. 

SPONGE CAKE WITH CREAM. 

Two egg's, beaten light in a cup, fill up with sweet cream, 1 
cupful of sugar, !'/» cupfula of flour, 1 teaspoonful of Royal 
Baking Powder. 

Mrs. a. H. Olzendai*. 

FRENCH CAKE. 

One and one half cupfuls sugar, '/i cupful butter. % cupful 
milk, 2 cupfuls flour, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, y^ tea- 
spoonful soda, whites of 5 eggs, flavor with vanilla. Cream but- 
ter, add sugar, beat thoroughly, then add a little of the flour, 
then milk, alternately. Dissolve soda in milk and mix cream 
of tartar with flour and lastly add whites of 5 eggs, beaten stiff, 
then flavor. 

Mie» AumE B. Chandler. 

1-3-3-4 CAKE. 

One cupful butter, 2 scant cupfuls sugar, 1 cupful milk, 4 
*K8rs. 3 cupfuis flour, 2 teasxmonfuls baking powder. Flavor 
with vanilla. 

MiB8 Annie B. Chandler. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Two eggs broken in a cup, fill cup with sweet cream, beat 

well and add l'/^ cupfuls sugar, beat thoroughly and, lastly, 

"' IVj cupfuls flour with 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar and Vi 



teaspoonful soda. Flavor. 



Miss Annie B. Chanih.£R. 



SPONGE LAYER CAKE. 

One balf cupful butler, 1 cupful sugar, 2 cupfuls flour, % cup- 
ful cold water, yolks of 2 vgge, 1 teaspoonfuj cream of tartar, Vi 
teaepoonful soda. 



One ball cupful strong cofEee, 1 cupful sugar; boil until thick, 
pour it Elowly on the beaten whites of S eggs, b«ating all the 
time. Wbeu cold, spread between and on top of cake. 

Mrs. Z, F. Caufbeix. 

ORANGE CKEAM CAKE. 

One cupful sugar, '^ cupful butter, whites of 4 e^s, % cupful 
sweet milk, 2 cupfuls sifted flour, and 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. Bake in jelly tins. 

Cream for Filling. 

One scant balf cupful boiling water, 1 tablespoonful cornstarch, 
dissolved in a very little cold milk, Vz cupful sugar. 2 oranges, 
juice, pulp, and a little of the grated rind, yolk of 1 egg. Boil 
all together until it tblckensi' add a little salt and piece of 
butter; make a, frosting-witb orange juice and confectioner's 

. Msa. Flobekce FiaHm. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Beat tbe whites of .1 eggs and the yolks of S eggs separately, 
cream 2 cupfuls sugar and '/j cupful butter, then add beaten 
eggs, Vi cupful of cold water, 2V2 cupfuls of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, juice and grated rind of 1 orange. Bake in 

Filling. 

1 tablespoonful of orange juice, and 2 cupfuls 

Mrs. a. E. Olzerdau. 

PEANUT FILLING FOR CAKE. 

Make a boiled icing of 1 cupful of granulat«d sugar and S 
tablespoonfuls of cold water. Boil until it threads from a spoon. 
Add the well-beaten white of 1 egg and beat until thick, then 
Etir into it a cupful of peanuts which have been chopped fine. 
Spread between cake layers and ovet the top. 

N. A. H. 



,.„i...:,;, Google" 



GINGERBREAD, DROP CA£ES, COOKIE^, 
DOUGHNUTS. 



SOFT GINGERBREAD. 



Mbs. Z. F. Campbeix. 
GINGER SNAPS. 
One third cupful butter in 3'pint dlsb. with 1 cupful molasses; 
let it come to a, boil but do not stir. When it comes to a boil, 
remove from stove and put in 1 t«aspoonful ginger and 1 round- 
ing teaspoonful soda, flour enough to make atiff. Roll out five 
times, then roll as thin as possible, cut out. and bake. 

Mrs. Geoboe H. Chatidleb. 

SPONGE DROPS. . 

Beat the whites of 3 eggs until stiff, add i?^ cupful powdered 
sug^r and continue beating; add the yolks of 2 eggs, well beaten, 
and Vt teaspoonful vanilla, cut and fold in y, cupful flour and y^ 
t«aspooiiful salt. Shape, sprinkle with powdered sugar, and 
bake. 

Mrs. W. B. B. 

MOLASSES GEMS. 

1 cupful sugar, y^ cupful molasEes, % cupful butter, '/i cupful 

milk, 3 eggs, 2^4 cupfuls flour, 1 cupful raisins chopped, ginger. 

nutmeg, and clove, Vi teaspoonful soda, >4 teaspoonful cream of 

tartar. 

Mb8. a. S. Bonton. 

HERMITS. 

Scant cupful butter or lard and butter, 2 cupfuls sugar, 3 eggs, 
•/s cupful sour milk, 3 cupfuls flour, more or less, '/, teaspoonful 
soda, 1 teaspoonful cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg, 1 cup each of 
chopped rnisins and currants. Drop instead of cutting them. 
Mrs. V,'. E. Burpee. 

COOKIES. 

Cream 1 cupful of butter, add gradually I'/u cupfuls sugar, and 
3 eggs well beaten: ndd 1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in 1'/^ 
teaspoonfuls of water. Sift together :i"/j cupfuls of flour. '/, a 



' "teaspoonful of salt, and 1 t«aspoonful of cioaamon. Add half of 
"ttiif to the thin mixture, then 1 cupful of chopped English wal' 
nuts, Vi a cupful of currantE, and y^ a cupful of chopped seeded 
Taisins. Put in the rest of the fiour and beat well. Drop by 
spoonfuls one inch apart on a buttered pan and bake in a mod- 
-erate oven. 

Mrs. M. a. Holtok. 

COOKIES. 

One cUpful sugar, V4 cupful butter, V; cupful sour milk. 1 tea- 
Apoonful cinnamon, Vj teaspoonful soda, flour to roll out. 

Mbs. Z. F. Campbell. 



Two cupfuls sugar, 1 cupful butter, 14 cupful milk, % eggs, 
1 teaspoonful soda. 2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, 4 cupfuls of 
flour; roll verj' thin and sprinkle with sugar and a little cin- 



Mrs. F. a. Wallace. 
MOLASSES COOKIES. 



Maa. John J. DoNAHtrE. 
POUND CAKE. 



For two large loaves: 2 cupfuls butter, 3 cupfuls sugar, 4 
«npfula flout, 1 dozen large eggs. '^ teaspoonful of mace. % gill 
t>randf. 

Mrs. C. L. Richardson. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 
One half cupful of molasses, 14 cupful sugar, y^ cupful butter, 
y^ cupful strong coffee, 1 heaping teaspoonful soda, 1 tenspoon- 
lul ginger. 

Mrs. J. G. Love.iot. 
BROWNIES. 

One cupful sugar, y^ cupful butter, 2 eggs, 1 cupful flour, 3 
squares -chocolate, 1 teaspoonful vanilla, 1 cupful English wal- 
niata, chopped, little salt, bake on bottom of tin. When they 
puffi up they are done. 

Mrs. E. M. Slatton. 
SAND TARTS. 

Two cupfuls brown sugar, 1 cupful butter, S eggs; wet top 
with white of egg and put on 3 almonds and sprinkle with sugar 

Mrs. a. S. Bunton. 



.,Gooj^Ic 



ROCKS. 

One Bcant cupful of butter, IVi cupfula of su^r, 3 egge, 1 ten- 
Epoonful clnnanion, 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in a little hot 
water, speck ol mace. Sy^ cupfuls ftour (ma; be little more), l'/^ 
cupfuls raisins, stoned and chopped, 1 pound Englisli walnuts 
chopped. Drop from spoon on back of-pon. 

Mrs. a. S. Bunton. 

MACAROONS. 

Two eggs, whites, pulverized sugar to make a soft frosting; 
stir thick with cocoanut, add 2 teaspooafuls bitter admouds, and 
flour to make quite stiff. 

Mrs. Jaueb W. Eiu~ 

HICKORY NUT MACAROONS. 

One half pound of pulverized sugar, Vi pound of nuts, whites 
of 3 eggs; beat eggs and sugar one half hour or longer (the 
longer the better), then stir the nuts in lightl}'. Grease pan and 
tttke like cookies in moderate oven. Do not chop the nuts. 

Mrs. E. M. Slattok. 
M <> 
CREAM PUFFS. 

Put Vs cupful butter into 1 large cupful boiling water, stir in 
while boiling 1 cupful flour; stir all the lumps out and let cool 
for a short time, then break three eggs (one at a time) into the 
mixture and stir smooth. Drop on buttered tins so as not to 
touch and bake in a quick oven thirty minutes. 

Filling. 

Scald I'/i cupfuls milk, 1 egg beaten with y^ cupful water, 3 
table spoonfuls flour and cook until thick; flavor with vanilla, let 
cool, cut open puffs and fill. Will make one dozen small pufls. 
Mrs. Morse. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One cupful sugar, 2 eggs, well beaten, i tablespoonful melted 
butter, 1 cupful milk, 1 teaspoonful soda, 2 cupfuls flour, S tea- 
spoonfuls cream of tartar, % teaspoonful cinnamon, little 
nutmeg. Mrs. W. K. BoBBors. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

One pint sweet milk, 1 cupful sugar, y^ cupful butt«r, % of 
a yeast cake, l egg, 14 nutmeg, 6 cupfuls flour: mix in order 
given, let rise until light, roll out, cut in shape, and fry in hot fat, 
Mrs. L. W. Colby. 



GRAHAM DOUGHNUTS. 

One half cupful brown sugar. 1 egg, a little salt, nutmeg, and 
ginger, H teaspoonful soda. diEsolved in y^ cupful sour milk, y^ 
cupful graham flour, and % cupful bread flour. Can use entire 
wheat flour in place of graham. 

Mrs. Flobencb Fishes. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One egg, V2 cupful sugar, 1 cupful sweet milk, 1 quart flour 
(measured in quart measure), 1 even teaspoonful soda, 2 even 
teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, 6 teaspoonfule melted lard (cool), 
little nutmeg. Do not roll, but pat out with the hand. 

Miss Aniiie B. CHAin>i.ER. 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 

"Who peppered the highest was surest to please." 
WELSH RAREBIT PICKLE. 



A large peach basket of green tomatoes chopped fine, with 2 
dozen green peppers and 1 dozen onions, sprinkle with salt and 
let stand over night; drain nest day and put in a kettle with 4 
pounds light brown sugar, \y^ pounds raisins, 1 teaspoonful each 
of clove, mace, and cinnamon. Cover with vinegar and let it 
boil two hours, stirring occasionally. Seeds to be removed from 
peppers. 

Mrs. G. B. CDANtii,EB. 

FRENCH PICKLE. 



Two quarts green tomatoes, S quarts onions. 2 quarts green 
peppers, 2 quarts cauliflower, 2 quarts cabbage, 2 quarts small 
pickles. Slice all except cauliflower and pickles; pour over I'/j 
cupfuls salt and let stand twenty-four hours, then wash in cold 
water and drain perfectly. Take 5 quarts vinegar, D tsblespoon- 
fuls tumeric, 2 tableapoonfuls celery seed, 1 tablespoonful mace, 
1 tablespoonful of cinnamon, 1 tablespoonful of black pepper, 
and 1 small box of mustard. Boil vinegar and spice ten min- 
utes (spice in hag), then add 1 cupful of sugar and 1 cupful of 
salad oil or butter. Drop in the sliced cucumbers, scald well, 
not boil. 

Miss Ajtnie B. Chandi.er. 



PICKLED PEARS. 

Seven pounds of pears, 3 pounds of sugrar. 1 ^nt of vinegar, 
1 pint of water, 2 teaspoonfuls of whole clovee, 1 heaping table- 
Bpoonful of cinnamon stick broken up, put both in a muslin 
bag and add to the syrup. When it cornea to a boll skim and 
put in the fruit prepared same as for canning. Cook until ten- 
der and can. Throw away the spice bag. 

Mkb. a. H. Olzeiidam. 

CUCUMBER SWEET PICKLE. 

Pare and slice lat^e, ripe cucnmberB, let stand twenty-four 
hours in weak vinegar, add 2 pounds brown sugar, 1 ounce cin- 
namon bark, and a few whole cloves, and cook until tender. 
Hake sjTup of vinegar and sugar and cook cucumbers in this 
until tender (steam cucumbers before cooking in syrup) ; put in 
atone jar and throw in spices. Boil syrup down if necessary and 
pour over encumbers. 

Miss Aitnie B. Chandileb. 

PICCALILLI. 

One peck of green tomatoes sliced, 1 cupful salt, let stand 
over night, 6 green peppers, i onions. 1 cupful sugar, I table- 
spoon fwl cinnamon, clove, allspice, 1 tablespoonful horse-radish. 
Cover with vinegar and cook tender. 

Mas. Habet E. Pabkeb. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

For 1 gallon juice, I pint vinegar, '/i pint brandy, 1 ounce 
cloves, y, ounce mace, '/z cupful salt, 3 cupfuls sugar. Boil one 
and a half or two hours; add the vinegar and bring it to a scald, 
then add cloves, mace, salt, and sugar. When cool and ready to 
bottle, add the brandy. 

Miss AtrmE B. CHAHni^B. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

Three quarts of small cucumbers, 2 quarts of small on loss, 
6 red peppers (cut fine), 3 cauliflowers divided; so^ over night 
in salt water. Mix 1 cupful of flour, 8 tablespoonfnls mustard, 
■/j ounce of tumeric, with cold vinegar to make a smooth paste, 
then add 3 cupfula of brown sugar and 4 quarts of vinegar. 
Boil this mixture until it thickens (stirring all the lime), then 
add the ve^tables and cook until well heated through. 

Mrs. Ai^nzo Elliott. 



., Google 



CHILI SAUCE. 

One peck ripe tomatoes, 4 onions, and 3 peppers chopped, 4 
(!upfula sugar, 5 cupluls vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls each of cloTe, 
allspice, and aalt; boil tliree hours. 

3>lRa. F. A. Wallace. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Five quarts currsnts, 4 pounds brown sugar, 1 pint vinegar, a- 
-teaspoonfuls of clore, cinnamon, and allspice. Dissolve sugar in 
vinegar and add currants and spices end boil one hour. 

Mrs. Z. F. Campbell. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Two quarts currants, 2 cupfuls sugar, V3 cupful vinegar, 1 tea- 
spoonful each of cinnamon, and cloves; cook until thick. 

Mrs. a. H. Olzehdav. 

GRAPE MARMALADE. 

Heat grapes and mash, strain through sieve; then add to 1 
quart of juice I pint of sugar, or more if tart, and boil forty 
minutes. Make in agate and use wooden spoon. 

Mrs. E. M. Slattob. 

. SPICED PLUMS. 

Hemove the pits and to 5 pounds of fruit add 4 pounds of 
brovfn sugar, 2 (ablespoonfuls of cloves, 2 table spoonfuls of 
cinnamon; boil slowly two hours, then add 1 pint of vinegar, 
boil fifteen minutes longer, then put in glas jars. 

Mna. James W. Hill. 

BORDEAUX SAUCE. 

One gallon green tomatoes, 1 gallon cabbage, 4 large onions, 
4 large peppers, 1 pound brown sugar, 1 gill salt, 1 gallon vin- 
egar, 1 ounce celery seed, 14 pound white mustard seed; chop. 
tomatoes, put salt on and let stand over night. In the morning, 
drain and chop cabbage and peppers; put all together and cook 
^ of an hour after it commences to boil. 

Mrs. Harrc E. Fabkeb. 

PEAR CHIP. 

Eight pounds Bartletl pears pared, quartered, sliced as for 
apple pie, then each piece cut in two, then weighed; 4 pounds 
sugar, % pound Canton ginger (preserved ginger). Let stand 
over night; in the morning add 4 lemons, removing seeds; cook 
three hours. 

Mrs. Georqe H. Chandler. 



.,CioogIc 



48 

PICKLES. 

One pint cucumbere, 1 gallon vinegar, I'/c pounds brown sugar, 
coffee (cupful of salt, % box mustard (small size), 1 quart of 
onions (small), 4 or 5 green peppers, 3 ounces mixed spices. 
Pack cucumbers in a jar, mix ingredients and pour over the same 
without heating. 

Mrs. W. B. Bukpee. 



THE CHAFING DISH. 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

Small piece of butter, 1 cupful of thick cream. 1 pound of 
cheese; heat butter and cream and add cheese. When melted, 
add 2 teaspoonfuls mustard, 1 teaspoonlul flour, y^ teaspoonful 
salt, a little cayenne, Z eggs, well beaten. Cook well and when 
smooth add % of a tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce. 

Mrs. James W. Hux. 

A SCOTCH RAREBIT. 

Six hard-boiled eggs, coarsely chopped, 2 tablespoonfuls but- 
ter, 1 tablespoonful flour, 1 tablespoonful anchovy paste, % pint 
milk, pinch of cayenne. Cook butter and flour together until 
they bubble, add milk and stir until smooth; put in the anehovy 
paste and cayenne and, one minute later, the eggs. Simmer 
three minutes and serve on toast. N. C. 

BLANKET OF CHICKEN. 

One pint of thick cream, 1 pint of milk, I tablespoonful of 
butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, celery salt, cayenne, and a little 
onion juice. Bring cream to a boil, turn on melted butter and 
flour, season; have a bowl of chicken cut in dice. 1 can of French 
peas, stir into milk and cream, serve on slices of toast or square 
crackers. This quantity will serve eight people. 

Mbs. E. L. Kimbau.. 



CANDY. 

"Sweets to the sweet." 



BAKED CANDY. 

The white of an egg beaten stiff, add 1 cupful of brown sugar 
and 1 cupful of chopped nuts; mix well and bake in buttered 
pan twenty minutes. 

Mrs. Mabel M. Chenet. 



CANDIED ORANGE PEEL. 

Cut up orange peel into strips and put into slightly salted 
water, where it can remain two or three days; remove from 
salted water, place in a kettle of fresh water and boil one hour. 
Take 2 eupfuls of siigrar, '/a cupful of water, and as soon as this 
has boiled to a syrup put in 3 eupfuls of the orange peel. When 
the orange peel has absorbed all the syrup remove from kettle 
and roll in granulated sugar. 

Mrs. Fred F. Fisheb. 

FRENCH CREAM CANDY. 

Two cupfulB of sugar, y^ cupful of milk; boll just five minutes, 
whip to a cream, stir in cocoanut or make up with nuts, figs, or 

Mbs, Jaus» W. Hill. 

BLUT WURST. 

One half pound sweet chocolate, melted; keep in a warm place, 
add Vg pound pulverized sugar, '/i of a pound blanched almonds. 
and 1 egg not previously beaten. Stir thoroughly, sprinkle the 
molding board with powdered sugar, and when the mixture is 
cool enough to handle place on the board and mold into the form 
of a sausage. Let cool and slice. 

Mrs. Jambs W. HtLL. 

SALTED PEANUTS, 

Shell and skin the peanuts and allow to each cupful of nuts 
1 tabiespoonful of butter and 1 tablespoonful of salt-. Let them 
stand for an hour or so and then place on a granite plate in a 
moderate oven; stir frequently, until they become a golden 
brown in color, N. A. H. 

MOLASSES SCOTCH, 

1 cupful of molasses, % cupful butter; 
buttered tin to cool. 

Mbs. Z. F. Cakpeell. 

BROWN SUGAR CANDY. 

Two eupfuls brown sugar, % cupful milk, butter size of a 
walnut; cook until it threads and add 1 tablespoonful of vanilla, 
1 cupful chopped peanuts; beat until creamy and put in pan 
to cool. 

Mbs. Z. F. Campbell. 



, -.ioOQic 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

"Gather up the fragments that nothint 



POTATO PANCAKES. 

Five or 6 lai^e potatoes grated, drain on Eieve, 3 eggB, whites 
beaten separately, pinch baking powder in a lieaping teaspoonful 
ot flour, pinch oi ealt; fry in hot lard until brown. 

Mbs.' a. H. Oczenoau. 

BUCKWHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One teaspoonful sugar, y^ teaspoonful salt, '/^ teaspoonful but' 
ter, IVs cupfuls warm water, % of a yeast cake, buckwheat until 
it makes a stiff batter, and mix this at night. In the morning 
thin with sweet milk and add '/i teaspoonful of soda. 

Mrs. a. S. Bubtob. 

CHEESE DROPS. 
Have % of a cupful of boiling water, add butter the size of a 
walnut and 3 heaping table spoonfuls of flour; stir well, add 3 
unbeaten eggs, one by one, beat thoroughly, drop by teaspoon- 
fuls; brush with white of egg, sprinkle with grated cheese and 
a dash of cayenne pepper, and bake. 

Mrs. Jaues W. Hill. 

HAM FOR SANDWICHES. 

Chop cold boiled ham very fine, and to every cupful allow 1 
tablespoonful melted butter, the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, 1 
teaspoonful lemon juice, '/t teaspoonful dry mustard, >/, teaspoon- 
ful paprika; pound all to a paste. 

Mrs. George H. Chandler. 

SWISS DESSERT. 

Cut a loaf of baker's bread into slices about one and one half 
inches thick and each slice into three oblong pieces; lay an a 
plate and pour cold milk over them, then lay on a sieve to drain 
' 1, then dip each piece into beaten egg and fry 
as doughnuts; when fried roll in a mixture- 
lamon. They are to be eaten fresh. 

A. Custer. 
VANILLA EXTRACT. 



CHEESE AND ANCHOVY SANDWICHES. 

Cream 3 tabtespooDfuls butter, add % cupful grated Younff 
American cheese and 1 leaspoonful vinegar. Season with salt, 
paprika, French mustard, and anchoTy essence; spread between 
thin slices ot bread. 

Mrs. W. B. Burpee. 

SAVORY SANDWICHES. 

Mix 1/2 cupful chicken, S tabtespooufuls grated cheese, 1 tea- 
spoonful French mustard, salt, paprika, and add cream to 
moisten; spread on buttered slices of brown bread, coser with 
crisp lettuce leaves which have been dipped in French dressing, 
and cover with another slice of buttered bread. 

Mrs. W. B. Bdrpee. 

GRAPE JUICE. 

Stem and wash grapes, cover with water and cook until like 
jelly; put in jelly bag and let drain over nigbt. For every quart 
of juice add 1 cupful sugar and boil four roiuutes. Bottle while 
hot. 

Mbs, George H. Chandler. 



b,GoogIc 



LIQUID MEASURE TABLE. DRY MEASURE TABLE. 



4 giiis, 1 pint. 

2 pints, 1 quart. 

4 quarts, 1 gallon. 
31.5- ^llons, 1 barrel. 
63 gallons. 1 hogshead. 



2 pints, 1 quart. 
S quarts, 1 peck. 
4 pecks. 1 bushel. 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AMD MEASURES. 

4 teaspoonfuls liquid, 1 tablespoon! ul. 

4 tablespoonfula liquid, '/, gill, 14 cupful, or 1 winegin! 

1 tablespoonfui liquid, % ounce, 

1 pint, liquid, 1 pound. 

2 gills, liquid, 1 cupful or 14 pint. 
1 kitchen cupful, % pint. 

1 heaping quart sifted flour, 1 pound. 

4 eupfuls flour, 1 quart or 1 pound. 

1 rounded talilespoonful flour, ^ ounce. 

3 cupfuis corn meal, 1 pound. 
1<4 pints corn meal, 1 pound. 
1 cupful butter, y^ pound. 

1 pint butter, 1 pound. 
1 tablespoon ful butter, 1 ounce. 
Butter the size of an egg, 2 ounces. 
Butter the size of a walnut, 1 ounce. 

1 solid pint chopped meat, 1 pound. 
10 eggs, 1 pound. 

A dash of pepper, >/s teaspoonful or 3 shakes. 

2 cupfuis granulated sugar, 1 pound. 
1 pint granulated sugar, 1 pound. 

1 pint brown sugar, 13 ounces. 

S'/m cnpfiils powdered sugar, 1 pound. 



b,GoogIc 



b,GoogIc 



- Huccessriil 



New Hampshike 

FIRE 

Insurance Company 



OF MANCHESTER 



CASH CAPITAL - - - $1,000,000.00 
NET SURPLUS - - - $1,199,685.49 



ProgTcsslTC People Purchase Perfect 
Protection ol Profitable Property by 
Procuring; Policies in the Prompt* 
Popular, and Pyramidal 

NEW HAMPSHIRE FIRE 

, Google 



b,GoogIc 



FREDERICK L. WALLACE 

UNDERTAKER AND FUNERAL DIRECTOR 
parlors: no. SS HANOVER STREET TitEPHom Teo 



GETTING ilong without a minister is like getting along 
without good Clothing and Furnishing Goods. 
You can get both. IVe can furnish the Clothing and 
Furnishing Goods— but not the minister. 

WESTON & MARTIN 

8J6 Elm Street Manchester, N. H. 

EVERETT & BUNTON 
FIRE, LIFE, AND LIABILITY 

INSURANCE 

227 The Kennard Manchester, N. H. 



The Host Delieioas Soda, The Most Delectable Confectloiieiy, 

The Lugest Lioe of Manicure Goods North of BoatoD, 

Fancy Goods, Gveiything Made in the Rubber Line, 

and last, but in reality first. 
The Finest and Host Thoroughly Complete Prescrlptton Departmeat 

That Money will Furnish. 
That's wtiy we tliink we STeenlltled to style auraclves tlie Leading Diugglnts. 
You can save from 2S to 40 per cent on all Drug Store Goods by trading wllh 

WALSH & CUMMINGS, '%^i:1^l^^^^' 

l.,.,i..,.,.,GooqIc 



b,GoogIc 



68 

REINHAIU) Hecker 

The Only Duler 1b 

German Delicatesseit 

IN MANCHESTER 

Also Dealer ia 

Groceries^ Meats^ and Provisions 
Domestic and Imported Cheese 

At WboleMle and Rebul 

Choice Wines, Liquors, Cigars i^ Tobacco 
Nos. 191, 193, 195, 197 Douglas Street 

HAirCHESTER, H. H. 



DO YOU USE 



Twentieth Century'^ 
Method of Cooking * 



Manchester Traction, Light & Power Company 

No. 4* Hanover Street 

MANCHESTER, N. H. 

D,=,t,:sa:,G00gIC 



b,GoogIc 



p. HARRINGTON 

Family Liquor Store 

Importer utd Wtiolcsalcr of 

FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC 

Gins, Brandies, Rums, Wines, 

Cordials, and Liquors 

We carry a full and complete assortment of 

COOKING WINES AND BRANDIES 

ALSO AGENT AND BOTTLER 

of 

PORTSMOUTH BREWING CO.'S 

FAMOUS 

Ales, Porter, and Portsburger 
Lager Beer 

17 to 25 Lake Avenue 

Mancliester. N. H, 

L.,=,t,:sa:,G00gIC 



b,GoogIc 



All kinds of INSURANCE, 

Loans, and Bonds 
John A.Sheehan, "Th"^' 

Finest of Cut Glass, Silver, Cutlery, Hard- 
ware, and other things to be found at 

The John B, Varick Co. 

Varick Building Elm Street Manchester, N. H. 

Name of Manufacturer, R. Q. SULLIVAN, 
stamped on every 

7=20=4 cig"?* 

is the smokers* protection and Standard 
of quality. 

FACTORY, MANCHESTER, N. H. 

See our prices on Dress Goods before buy- 
ing elsewhere 

Remnant Store 

)3 and 15 Lowell St., Manchester, N. H. 

F. W. LEEMAN. 

Google 



b,GoogIc 



Wlien your insurance expires, renew 
your policy with 

William G. Berry 

Cor. Elm and Hanover Sts., Manchester, N. H. 

Do not forget to give us a call 

ASK to see our line of goods and we 
guarantee you will be satisfied to BUY 

Chas. M. Floyd, Clothier 

Manchester, N. H. 

If you want fine Groceries, Meats, and 
Fresh Fish, trade with 

Fred H. Poore 

1129 Elm Street Opposite New City Hotel 

FARMER'S 

FOOTWEAR 

SATISFIES 

24 Hanover Street 

D,s.i,:.db, Google 



<;,GoogIc 



<i , -, 



..GAoglc 



b,GoogIc 



b,GoogIc 



b,GoogIc 



b,GoogIc 



b,GoogIc 



b,GoogIc 



