^ 






^- i^ 0"]. Cj ^ 



^-'' 



•^v X 






~^-'' 



i.h" 






^.'.r 




"^^, 




» ^ 




t if. ^^ 






G-IN/E N B Y 



^^^ 

•S^^-' 



'}y)./U^ Tl^Ma^^Is^td^ 



\ 



/ 



THE 



GENESEE VALLEY 
COOK BOOK 



BY 



Nliss MUMKORD 



Privately Printed 






V /:/*\/:C::..: -,-' :..' 


'«.! 


• 


• •• • 


Efie Jifr^j^firpr?§S;--. 








Sft^'wfUEL'USWER • *'* 








• . ,.\7e,79.1,84»Hiq4 .STREET . 


,• * 


r 





Table of Contents 



PAGE 

CHAPTER I 

Soups, Meats, Hashes, Vegetables, etc. . 7 



CHAPTER H 

Puddings, Pies and Salads 26 

CHAPTER HI 

Breads 49 

CHAPTER IV 

Cake 66 

CHAPTER V 

Preserved Fruits, Jellies, etc 85 

CHAPTER VI 

Pickles, Lotions, Miscellaneous .... 96 



Note 

This little book comprises a collection of re- 
ceipts, new and old, which have long been famous 
in the Genesee Valley, many of them dating back 
nearly a hundred years. They have been col- 
lected mostly in one family, though the house- 
wives are various. It has seemed to the writer 
worth while to preserve them for this and the 
comins: srenerations. 



THE GENESEE VALLEY COOK BOOK 



Chapter I 
SOUPS, MEATS, HASHES, VEGETABLES, ETC. 



BEEF SOUP 

A shin of beef, the bone cut in two. Add eight quarts 
of water. Let stand on a warm hearth for three hours, 
then boil it slowly. Stand it aside over night. In the 
morning take off the fat; add three carrots, three onions, 
one turnip, twelve cloves, twenty -four allspice, a little 
pepper and salt. Boil thoroughly. When done, strain 
and add dessertspoon brown sugar. 

TO PREPARE VEAL 

Take the breast of veal, slip out the bones, cover it 
an inch thick with a rich dressing in which is a little 
onion (like that for duck). Roll it over, tie tightly at 
each end and bake. When done, make a gravy and 
pour over it. 

TO PREPARE VEAL 

Three and one-half pounds of the nicest parts of the 
lean and fat of a leg of veal. Six small crackers, pounded 
fine, two eggs, piece of butter size of an egg, one table- 
spoon black pepper, one nutmeg, slice of salt pork, and a 
little parsley. Work all together in the form of a loaf 



8 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

of bread, put bits of butter over the top and grate crusts 
of bread on it. Place it on a grate, set in a dripping 
pan with a little water in it, and baste it often. Two 
hours will be a proper time for cooking. Judge when it 
is done by running fork through. 

PEA SOUP 

One quart split peas, six quarts water, a piece of salt 
pork large enough to season it, small piece of steak or 
cold roast beef. Boil four or five hours, strain through 
a sieve. 

CLAM SOUP 

Wash clams thoroughly in two waters ; put them into 
a stewpan with a small quantity of water, and let them 
come to a boil. The process of boiling will open the 
clams. Take them out, as they are sufficiently cooked, 
chop them fine and put them where they will be kept 
warm. Roll some crackers and put into the soup with 
milk, butter, and pepper. Throw the clams into tureen, 
and pour the liquid over them and send to table. 

GOOD BEEF SOUP 

Five pounds soup beef. Cover well with water. Two 
carrots, four turnips, two roots celery, two leeks sliced 
thin and dropped in kettle. Cook vegetables in soup 
until not quite thoroughly done, then take them out 
entirely. Take six large potatoes, slice and boil them 
in the soup, and mash them thoroughly in the kettle. 
Add chopped parsley and season to taste. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 9 

KATE'S SOUP STOCK 

Take shank of beef that weighs about twenty pounds. 
Cut off meat and at about eight o'clock in morning lay 
it in bottom of kettle. Put bones on top, taking out 
the marrow. One cup water, and let boil two hours, 
stirring often. Then cover with boiling water from 
teakettle; cover tight and let boil until eight at night, 
adding water as often as needed. Strain, having three 
quarts, and set in refrigerator till morning. Then take 
off every particle of grease, and it will be read}^ for use. 

SOUP STOCK 

Shin of beef, knuckle of veal, — ten pounds in all after 
trimming. Cut the meat into dice, crush the bones 
somewhat. One small onion, cut fine. Put all into 
four quarts of water. Let it stand in soup-digester on 
range a full hour before cooking at all. Then let it 
simmer slowly all day, until the meat is in rags, but do 
not let the liquid fall below five pints. Leave in soup- 
digester over night, and simmer again the next day, 
four or five hours. Cool and strain through a linen 
damask into a stone crock. The next morning remove 
all the fat from the top. The stock, when cold, should 
be of the consistency of a stiff jelly and the color of 
wine. This soup is better strained only, not cleared 
with egg. Any cooked pieces of lean steak or grouse 
added during the first cooking give a good flavor and 
color. Pepper and salt should be added when any part 
of the stock is heated for serving. A part may be 
heated, flavored, shaped in jelly mold and served cold. 



lo The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

BLACK BEAN SOUP (i) 

Put about one quart black beans in soak over night, 
and for a six o'clock dinner put them over the fire by 
about ten o'clock in the morning. Let them simmer 
slowly, well covered with water. About twelve, add 
the roast -beef bones, having cut off the fat, and let all 
simmer together until you are ready to put in the vege- 
tables, — an onion, a leek, and a carrot sliced. Cut a 
lemon and a hard-boiled egg into slices, put them in 
the soup tureen. Pour the soup , after having seasoned 
it with salt and pepper to taste, through your soup 
sieve on to them. The thickness of the soup is a matter 
of taste. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP (2) 
(Ontario Beach recipe [Aunt Mary D.'s] ) 

One pint black beans, soaked in one gallon cold water 
over night. In the morning add to this, one pound 
beef, one-half pound salt pork, one large or two small 
onions, one carrot grated. Let this boil slowly until 
the beans are thoroughly cooked, then strain and mash 
through a colander. Add salt and pepper. Cut a 
lemon in thin slices, a hard-boiled egg sliced, and a 
wineglass port wine in your tureen, and pour the hot 
soup over them. 

POTATO SOUP (C. H. L.) 

Ten large potatoes, boiled soft. Pour off the water 
and mash one-quarter pound of butter with the 
potatoes; pour three pints cold milk over the whole 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book ii 

and allow to come to a boil, stirring all the time. 
Pepper, salt, and mace to taste. A few crackers in the 
sonp after it is strained into the tureen. 

STEWED PIGEONS 

Prepare a stuffing of bread and butter, with salt and 
pepper in plenty. When stuffed, put the birds in a pot; 
cover with cold water, and stew down as for a fricassee. 
If the birds are old put them on early and stew until 
quite tender. 

TO FRY SALT PORK 

Slice the pork thin, lay it in spider, put water on it 
and let it boil a jew moments only. Pour off the water, 
wipe out the spider and keep it hot. Dip each slice of 
pork into flour, lay it back into spider and let fry on 
both sides. Pour off most of the fat; add some milk, 
and when it begins to boil, add cream and a sprinkle of 
flour, or a little flour and butter rubbed to a paste. 

VEAL LOAF 

Four pounds veal cutlet, two slices raw salt pork, 
one teaspoon each of salt, pepper, and sage, four 
powdered crackers, three eggs, one teaspoonful cream. 
Chop pork and veal very fine, mix all together and bake 
three hours in long, narrow pans. 

TO COOK OYSTERS (Two quarts) 

Put oysters in saucepan, with enough of their own 
liquor to cover them. Let them nearly cook. Drain 



12 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

through a colander. Put Hquid back in saucepan and 
add one cup milk, one and one-half tablespoons. flour, 
butter size of a hen's egg, a little nutmeg, pepper, and 
salt. When flour is thoroughly cooked, throw in the 
oysters long enough to heat through, and then serve. 

FISH PUDDING 

One pound of boiled halibut, one-half cup of cream 
or milk, one and one-half tablespoons butter, one-half 
tablespoon flour, one and one-half teaspoons salt, one- 
quarter teaspoon pepper, one-half teaspoon onion juice, 
two eggs. Pound the fish in a mortar until it is thor- 
oughly mashed, then rub it through a puree sieve. 
Season the fish pulp with salt, pepper, and onion juice. 
Put the butter into a saucepan and when melted add 
the flour and cook for a few minutes. Then add slowly 
the cream or milk, stirring it constantly until well 
scalded. Then add the fish pulp, take from the fire, 
add the beaten eggs, and mix thoroughly. Butter well 
a ring or border-mold holding a pint or a little more, 
put in the mixture, pressing it well against the sides to 
remove any air bubbles. Cover the mold with a greased 
paper and set in a pan of warm water, one-half the mold 
in depth. Place in moderate oven for thirty minutes, 
and do not let the water boil. Then place the form of 
fish on a hot dish, fill the center with boiled potato 
balls. Pour over the balls some Bechamel or other 
white sauce, and sprinkle chopped parsley over the top. 
Serve with the fish a generous amount of Bechamel or 
white sauce. This is a very good dish. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 13 

CUSQUE A LA CREME 

Use halibut, haddock, or any other fish. After boiling 
the fish in salt and water, pick it from the bones and 
break it into fine pieces. Put a cup of flour into a stew- 
pan, and add by degrees one quart of milk; mix very 
smoothly. Cut two onions fine, grate a little nutmeg, 
add teaspoon of salt and one-quarter teaspoon of pepper. 
Put all over the fire and stir until it thickens. Add 
one-quarter pound butter and strain it through a sieve. 
Lay some of this mixture in a baking dish and then 
a layer of fish, until it is all used up, adding salt and 
pepper if required. Finish with the sauce. Sprinkle 
over all some fine bread crumbs and put it for half an 
hour into the oven, or just long enough to brown it 
lightly. 

FISH FOR DINNER 

Small haddock, about three pounds. Boil it with a 
little vinegar in the water to make it white, and when 
cool enough flake it fine and have ready for use the 
following. Put in double boiler one pint milk, one clove, 
two bay leaves, a little cinnamon bark, two whole black 
peppers, a little parsley, and one onion. Let it come to 
a boil and strain. Take one and one-half tablespoons 
butter, melt it, one and one-half tablespoons flour, stir 
until perfectly smooth and add to hot milk. When it 
is thoroughly cooked and thick, add the flaked fish. 
Let it remain until heated through. Put it into a but- 
tered mold in which you have thrown a few capers, 
and let it stand until it gets cold. The mold should be 
deep, so that the water will not come over the top. Set 



14 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

the mold into a pan of hot water and let remain in the 
oven until it is heated through. When very hot, turn 
over on to a platter and set in the heater (but let the 
mold remain on it) until ready to serve. When ready 
for the table, pour over it the following: 

SAUCE HOLLANDAISE 

Take one-quarter cup butter, yolks of two eggs, juice 
of one quarter of a lemon, a shake of red pepper, a little 
onion, and a little salt. Cream the butter, add the yolk 
of one egg little by little; beat up thoroughly; then 
the other yolk little by little, then the salt and pepper, 
and then the lemon juice drop by drop. When all is 
well beaten, put in small saucepan over hot water and 
gradually add one -quarter cup of boiling water. Stir 
until perfectly smooth like custard. You can make 
double this quantity of sauce, for it will keep, and can be 
used instead of mayonnaise for vegetable and other 
salads. If any of the fish is left put it in shells, cover 
with bread crumbs and set in oven for tea. 

CHICKEN PATTIES 

Take one chicken. Boil until tender in just enough 
water to cover it, in which have half an onion. When 
cold separate the meat from the bones and cut it in 
small pieces. Strain and skim the stock in which the 
chicken has cooked, and thicken with a little flour and 
butter. Put in the chicken and season with salt, pepper, 
and a little nutmeg. One pair of sweetbreads boiled 
will add greatly to its flavor, also a little chopped parsley 
or truffles. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 15 

CHICKEN CHEESE 

Boil a chicken to pieces, and separate the meat from 
the bones. Chop it fine, and mix with it salt, pepper, 
melted butter, and a squeeze of a lemon. Take a cupful 
of stock, boil it down until it will jell3^ pour it into a 
form, and let it stand over night. In the morning put 
the chicken into the form and press it in good, put a 
piece of bread over it and weights, and let it stand in 
refrigerator until tea time. 

LIVER PATTY 

One half of a calf's liver. Boil two hours; put through 
a sieve. Mix with it pepper and salt until it tastes 
right, two tablespoons of cream, two tablespoons of 
butter. Mix liver and butter until smooth, then add 
cream, put in jar and press down. Cover and put on ice. 
Let stand twenty-four hours. Put in truffles to make 
extra nice. Use with toasted cracker or toasted bread, 
as you would foie gras. Nice with salad. 

TO BOIL A HAM 

Cover the ham with cold water and soak all night. 
In the morning change the water and put it on back of 
the stove and boil very slowly, until it is about half done, 
or until 3^ou can just stick a fork into it a little. Then 
pour off half the water, and fill up with pure vinegar, and 
add two cups of brown sugar and let it boil until done. 
If you care for the looks, a few minutes before dinner 
stick in a few cloves, cover with bread crumbs, and set 
in the oven just long enough to brown the crumbs. 



1 6 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

BEEF A LA MODE 

A round of beef, from nine to twelve pounds. Sprinkle 
with vinegar. Lard it with salt pork, stick it full of 
cloves and allspice. Stuff the hole from which the 
bone was taken with a dressing as for fowls, adding 
chopped onion. Set it away for a day. Slice a large 
onion, and with one-quarter pound salt pork, butter 
the size of a hen's Qgg, stew in water until it boils. Dredge 
the meat with flour, and set in the oven in the made 
gravy. Cook rapidly fifteen minutes, then simmer slowly 
four or five hours. Just before serving, pour over it a 
pint of port or claret wine. 

DUMPLINGS FOR SOUP OR POT-PIE 

One quart sour milk, two teaspoons soda, piece of 
butter size of an egg, a little salt. Not very stiff. Cook 
in a steamer one hour. 

KIDNEYS (M. M. B.) 

Eight kidneys cut in small pieces. Melt some butter 
in a frying pan, then put in a few kidneys at a time, 
stirring constantly for about three minutes, but use own 
judgment when they are cooked tender. When done 
(toast being already made) add a little salt and pepper, 
and put them on the toast. Salt draws juice out and 
should be added last. 

SAUCE FOR KIDNEYS 

Piece of butter, size of a small egg, in a saucepan. 
Then add one tablespoon flour, and let it get a nice golden 
brown (not too dark). When that is done, add one-half 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 17 

cup water, one-half cup cream, and one-half cup port and 
sherry mixed. Whatever juice comes from the kidneys 
add to the sauce, and season all with salt and pepper to 
taste. If it should be too thick, add a little more cream 
and pour sauce over kidneys on the toast. 

TERRAPIN (M. M. B.) 

Have ready a pot of boiling water, into which put a 
teaspoon of salt for each terrapin. Wash the live 
terrapin in two or three waters, until they are perfectly 
clean, then put them into the boiling water and cook 
for one hour. When the flesh becomes quite tender, 
so that you can pull it apart easily, pull the top shell off, 
remove the sand-bag and gall (which you must be care- 
ful not to break as it will make the whole dish bitter). 
Cut up all the other parts of the inside with the meat, 
except the skinny portions and intestines. To every 
terrapin, unless very small, allow two ounces of butter 
cut in small pieces and rolled in flour. Season with 
equal portions of salt and black pepper, one-half tea- 
spoon each is sufficient, and two glasses sherry to each 
terrapin. Put in a stewpan and simmer gently for 
about an hour. Just before serving beat up the yolks 
of the eggs (one egg to each terrapin) and stir in the last 
thing. It is a great addition to squeeze in the juice of 
a couple of lemons, and also a little port wine. 

BEEF STEW (Enough for six persons) 

Four tablespoons butter, two tablespoons chopped 
onion, two tablespoons flour, one pint string beans, two 
carrots, two quarts potatoes, three pounds rump steak 



1 8 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

(or aitchbone). Cut the meat into small pieces, put 
butter and onion on to fry. When the onion i§ well 
browned, add the meat and fry for about ten minutes. 
Then dredge in the flour, add pepper and salt to taste. 
Then pour on boiling water enough to cover and bring 
it all to a boil. Cover it up and stand it on back of the 
stove for about three hours. Cook the beans, carrots, 
and potatoes ; make a border around the dish with them. 
Put meat in the center and pour the gravy over it, and 
make rings of the vegetables around it in their order. 

CREAMED CHICKEN 

About five pounds of chicken. Cook in as little water 
as you can. Strain out the broth, separate the chicken 
from the bones, cut in rather small pieces and keep 
warm. Put broth into saucepan and add to it one 
pint of milk and about the same quantity of cream, 
butter size of an egg, one large tablespoon flour; stir 
well with salt, pepper and a little cayenne. Let come 
to a boil and pour hot over the chicken. One-half pint 
of oysters added is an improvement. Serve on deep 
platter, with points of toast around edge. 

CREAMED DRIED BEEF 

One tablespoon butter, one cup milk, one-half tea- 
spoon cornstarch mixed with a little milk; add the rest 
of the milk and butter melted; season with salt and 
pepper. Let all come to a boil, then add one-half pound 
dried beef which has been freshened in cold water for 
three or four minutes and patted dry. Heat it through 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 19 

and pour in the dish over buttered toast. Add an egg, 
if you choose to make it richer. 

FRIZZLED BEEF 

One-half pound dried beef cut into small pieces, one 
tablespoon hot butter, one tablespoon flour. Cook all 
until slightly brown. Add one cup cream, dash of 
pepper, two eggs well beaten. When boiling, serve, 
with or without toast. 

SWEETBREADS (Mrs. Putnam) 

Lard the sweetbreads with salt pork and boil in clear 
water about fifteen minutes ; put them into cold water 
about ten minutes ; then put them into a pan. Dredge 
in a little flour, about one-half pint hot water, very little 
mace, pepper, and salt. Set them into oven to brown 
about twenty minutes. Dish the sweetbreads, add to 
the gravy a piece of butter about the size of an egg, and 
a little flour. Give it one boil and turn it over the sweet- 
breads hot. Garnish the dish with sliced lemon and 
parsley. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS (Mrs. Putnam) 

Be sure 3^our mushrooms are fresh. Soak and wash 
them very clean. Put into a saucepan half a pint of 
water, one ounce of butter, the juice of one lemon, a 
little salt, pepper, then the mushrooms; set the sauce- 
pan on a quick fire, let them boil ten minutes, stirring 
all the time. Thicken half a cup of cream with a little 
flour; stir it in and let it boil once. Send them to the 
table in a covered dish. 



20 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

MUSHROOMS SOUFFLE 

One-half cup fine bread crumbs and one cup -milk, 
cooked together ten minutes. Pour this on to the 
beaten yolks of three eggs. Add one-half pound of 
finely chopped mushrooms, and the whites of three eggs 
beaten until stiff, cutting and folding them in. Bake in 
molds set in a pan of water in moderate oven from 
twenty to thirty minutes. 

MUSHROOMS SAUTE 

Melt two tablespoons butter, add one-quarter pound 
mushroom-caps. Cook until tender. Remove mush- 
rooms, add one-half cup cream, and pour around the 
mushrooms. 

LOBSTER AND MUSHROOM FRICASSEE 
(Boston Cooking School) 

Melt two tablespoons butter, add two tablespoons 
flour, one cup thin cream, one-quarter teaspoon each of 
salt, cayenne, and paprika. Add meat from a two- 
pound lobster, and one-half pound mushrooms, peeled 
and broken in pieces. Cook ten minutes; add one-half 
cup sherry wine, and cook until hot. Serve with toast- 
points. 

FOR LUNCHEON OR TEA 

Pick up one teacup of codfish (salt), let it soak in luke- 
warm water while you mix two cups cold mashed pota- 
toes with one pint sweet milk, two eggs, a good-sized 
lump of butter, and pepper and salt to taste. Then add 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 21 

the codfish, mix all well, and bake in buttered pudding 
dish for from twenty-five minutes to half an hour. 
Serve hot. 

CODFISH BALLS (H. S. F. M.) 

One cup picked codfish, two cups quartered potatoes, 
one teaspoon butter, one well-beaten egg. Put the 
picked fish into cold water long enough to soak it. 
Pour off water, add the potatoes, cover with boiling water 
and boil for about twenty minutes, or until the potatoes 
are cooked. Strain; add butter and beat well. Add 
the egg. When all are well mixed, slip off one spoonful 
at a time into hot lard. 

SALT CODFISH CREAMED 

One cup codfish, shred, wash, and drain. Take one 
tablespoon hot butter, one tablespoon arrowroot or 
flour, and cook until smooth. Add one cup of cream 
and dash of pepper. Cook this dressing until it boils. 
Add the fish and cook five minutes. Then add two 
eggs well beaten and serve on toast. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG 

Three lobsters that weigh about six pounds, one-half 
pint sherry. Cut lobster fine and pour the wine on it, 
letting it stand until absorbed; one pint cream, yolks 
of three eggs, one-quarter pound of butter, red pepper, 
salt. Put cream and butter together and let them come 
to a boil. Add lobster. At the last, add yolks of eggs, 
and do not let the mixture boil after the eggs are in. 



22 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG (Mrs. Rorer) 

Boil a three-pound lobster in salted water for thirty 
minutes. When cool take out the meat and cut it into 
nice blocks. Rub one tablespoon of flour with a quarter 
of a pound of butter; add one gill of cream and the 
hard-boiled yolks of four eggs. Stir this over the fire 
until it just begins to thicken; add lobster and when hot 
take it from the fire, add quarter of a teaspoon of salt, 
a pinch of mace, a dash of cayenne, and four tablespoons 
of sherry. 

NEW LONDON STEWED LOBSTER 

Have ready boiling water, with a handful of salt in it. 
Put in the lobsters, as soon after they have left their 
native element as possible. Boil until they are red and 
the small claws can be easily separated from the body. 
Pick meat from the shell, put it in a saucepan; add 
butter, black pepper, cayenne and salt. Beat an egg, 
and when the lobster boils, add the egg, with one or 
two tablespoons of good vinegar. Serve immediately. 



BEEF BALLS (C. H. L.) 

Mince very fine a piece of tender beef, fat and lean. 
Mince an onion with some boiled parsley. Add grated 
bread crumbs, and season with pepper, salt, grated nut- 
meg and lemon peel. Mix all together and moisten 
with one beaten egg. Roll into balls. Flour and fry 
in boiling pork drippings. Serve with fried bread 
crumbs, or with a thickened brown gravy. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 23 

CROQUETTES 

Melt three tablespoons of butter; stir in one-third cup 
of flour; add one cup milk. Let cook until it thickens. 
Set away until cold. When wanted add one cup of 
any kind of flaked fish, or finely chopped meat. Season 
to taste. (For fish croquettes, foar drops onion juice.) 
Shape, roll in egg thinned with a little water, and fry in 
hot fat. 

MINCED CORNED BEEF (Mrs. Putnam) 

Chop some corned beef, fat and lean together, very 
fine, and as much potato; mix them together; put them 
into a frying pan with a good-sized piece of butter and 
a little pepper. Stir it frequently until it is very hot; 
then let it stand until the bottom is brown ; turn it on to 
a flat dish and dress it with a little parsley. 

MINCED MUTTON (Mrs. Putnam) 
Chop the mutton very fine; put it into a frying pan, 
with some of the gravy, if you have it; if not, put in a 
little soup stock, just enough to moisten it; season it 
with butter, pepper, and salt; stir it frequently, that it 
may not fry, but get very hot. Serve on slices of toasted 
bread; garnish with lemon. 

RICE CROQUETTES 

To one cup of rice pat one pint of milk, and one-half 
pint of water. Boil until tender. Add yolks of three 
eggs beaten light, and butter size of a walnut. Make 
into rolls, dip into the whites of the eggs beaten light; 
roll in bread or cracker crumbs and fry in hot lard, like 
fritters. 



24 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

BAKED CORN 

Cut off and scrape twelve ears of corn; one-half cup 
milk, one egg, one tablespoon flour, butter size of a 
walnut, salt to taste. Bake half an hour. 

BAKED MACARONI 

Boil one-quarter pound macaroni in milk, until quite 
soft, then stir in one ounce cheese, salt, and cayenne 
pepper. Put it in a baking dish, and grate over it two 
ounces of cheese, and two or three small crackers. 
Spread over all a thin layer of butter and set it in the 
oven to brown. 

NANTUCKET CORN PUDDING (Mrs. Putnam) 

Eight ears of corn grated from the cob, two soft 
crackers pounded fine, three eggs, one cup of sugar, 
one pint of milk, salt to the taste. Bake it one hour. 

CORN OYSTERS 

Grate twelve ears of corn. Two eggs, one tablespoon 
powdered sugar, one-half cup milk, two tablespoons 
flour, a little bit of soda on end of a knife. Put corn, 
flour, eggs, and sugar together, mix them well, then add 
milk and soda last. Be exact about the quantity of 
flour, as more makes the oysters tough. Fry as you do 
fritters, with plenty of hot fat. 

TO COOK CABBAGE (Mrs. Putnam) 

Boil the cabbage two hours. It is very nice also, if 
boiled, chopped very fine and fried in a little butter. 
When done, add a little vinegar and stir it up. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 25 

CREAMED POTATOES (J. B. M.) 

One quart of cold boiled potatoes, cut in dice, one pint 
(scant) of milk. Cook five minutes in double boiler. 
Add three tablespoons butter, one tablespoon chopped 
parsley, one teaspoon lemon juice, one heaping teaspoon 
flour, yolks of two eggs. Cook five minutes. 

CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE 

Cut half a small carrot and a quarter of a head of 
celery in strips about an inch long and half the thickness 
of a lead pencil; parboil until half cooked. Roast a 
medium sized chicken for about twenty minutes in 
ordinary way in oven. Slice a small onion fine, also two 
thick slices of bacon in strips like the carrots ; fry them 
together in your "casserole"; add one or two fresh 
mushrooms cut into small pieces. When nicely colored, 
add a teaspoonful of flour, moisten with one-half pint 
of good stock, or light gravy. Add a little sherry. 
When this boils, add the half -cooked carrots and 
celery, and the chicken. Put on the cover and let 
simmer in oven for thirty minutes or more if neces- 
sary. The chicken must be very w^ell done. A few 
small, round potatoes (potatoes Parisienne) parboiled 
and partly fried can be added to it, also a few French 
peas at last. Serve casserole on folded napkin. 

One tablespoon of strong coffee imparts a delicious 
flavor and color to gravy for meats. 



Chapter II 
PUDDINGS, PIES, AND SALADS 



BLANC MANGE 

Two quarts milk, one-half paper isinglass or one-half 
package Cox's gelatine. Soak isinglass in some of the 
milk, scald the remainder and pour it on the soaked 
isinglass. Let it come to a boil, stirring it all the time. 
When done and somewhat cool, add vanilla. Put in 
sugar if desired. Serve with sugar and cream when 
perfectly cold. This is simple, delicate, and good. 

CALF'S-FOOT JELLY 

Cut in pieces four calves' feet. Put to them four 
quarts water. Boil down to two quarts; strain the 
liquid and let it stand all night. In the morning remove 
grease from the top and the sediment. Put it in a pan 
with one pint of wine, the juice of four lemons, and 
sugar to taste. Add whites of eight eggs beaten to a 
froth, then boil thirty minutes; take it off and add one 
cup cold water. Let it stand a few minutes, then pass 
it through a flannel bag and pour into glasses. 

WINE JELLY 

One box Cox's gelatine dissolved in one pint cold 
water, one pint boiling water, a little more than one 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 27 

pint sugar, two lemons (rind of one and juice of both), 
one stick of cinnamon, whites and shells of two eggs, 
one pint sherry wine. To put together: Add to the 
dissolved gelatine first the lemon (the rind cut, not 
grated), then the eggs and stick cinnamon. Let them 
come to a boil, then take off and add the wine and pour 
through flannel bag. 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE (Mrs. Whitney) 

One pint railk, four pieces isinglass soaked in water 
for twenty minutes. Then drain off water, put it into 
the cold milk, set it over the fire and let it heat gradually, 
stirring it all the time. When hot, stir in yolks of four 
eggs and one pound sugar. Let it simmer but not boil. 
Then cool it and when cold stir in one quart cream, 
whipped to a stiff froth. Flavor with lemon or vanilla, 
place sponge cake in mold and set it on ice. If you 
want it very rich, three pints or two quarts of cream 
may be used with the same quantity of other ingre- 
dients. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

Dissolve one-quarter ounce gelatine in enough milk 
to cover it. Whip one pint cream, having first sweet- 
ened and flavored it with three tablespoons powdered 
sugar and one teaspoon vanilla. As it froths, take it 
off on to a sieve. When it will froth no longer, strain 
into the bowl the gelatine; add one well-beaten egg. 
Beat into it the froth, and pour into your dish, which 
is lined with strips of cake or lady fingers. 



28 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

LEMON PUDDING 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, five eggs, two lemons, 
one pint sweet milk. Stir butter and sugar together. 
Beat the eggs separately and put them in next. Stir 
in the milk; grate the outside of the lemons; squeeze 
the juice and put it in the last thing. Bake in a crust. 
Cocoanut may be made in the same way. 

" AMBROSIA " 

Orange and pineapple cut fine and dusted with sugar. 
Place a layer of this in glass dish, then a layer of grated 
cocoanut. Make as many double layers as you wish, 
always having cocoanut at top. 

" POOR MAN'S PLUM PUDDING " 

One-half cup butter, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup 
molasses, one cup milk, one tablespoon cinnamon, two 
eggs, flour enough to make as thick as poundcake, one 
small teaspoon soda, one pint fruit. Melt butter and 
mix with it sugar, molasses, and milk. First put soda 
into the molasses. Boil three hours or more. 



TRENTON FALLS PUDDING (Mrs. Miller) 

Four ounces butter, one-half pint or a tablespoon 
com meal, one-half pint powdered sugar, three eggs. 
Beat butter and sugar together until very light, add 
the yolks, beat them in thoroughl}^ then the meal by 
degrees, and lastly the whites whisked to a stiff froth. 
Mix well and bake in a buttered dish for half an hour. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 29 

Serve hot with a poury sauce. It looks like a rich 
pound cake. 

SAUCE FOR PUDDING 

Boil one -half pint water, and stir into it two teaspoons 
flour or arrow-root or cornstarch mixed smooth in 
cold water. Let this simmer slowly while you beat to 
a very light froth one teacup brown sugar and one- 
half teacup butter. Add a little nutmeg and wine, or 
the juice of half a lemon, with the other half cut in 
slices. Put the lemon or spice and wine into a gravy- 
boat, stir the boiling mixture into the sugar and butter, 
and pour into the boat. 

WARRENER'S PUDDING 

One pint and three gills of flour, one-half pint of sweet 
milk, one-half pint chopped suet (or small portion of 
butter or lard instead), one-half pint chopped raisins, 
one-half pint molasses, three-quarters teaspoon soda, two 
teaspoons cinnamon, one-half teaspoon clove, one nut- 
meg, or one teaspoon allspice. Mix well together, 
adding the soda dissolved in a little of the milk before 
putting in all of the flour. Boil or steam in a mold or 
bag for three hours. Serve with sauce. 

SAUCE 

Rub two ounces of butter with an even tablespoon of 
flour. Stir in one-half pint brown sugar and one-half 
gill of boiled cider, or vinegar. Add one gill boiling 
water. Mix well, let it simmer a few moments; then 
serve hot. 



30 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

BREAD PUDDING 

One quart sweet milk, one and one-half pints "bread 
crumbs, one tablespoon sugar, small teaspoon salt, a 
little nutmeg, small piece of butter, handful of raisins. 
Soak bread crumbs in the milk for several hours ; add 
other ingredients and just before putting in oven add 
one beaten egg. Bake about twenty minutes. Serve 
with hard sauce, — half as much butter as sugar. 

FRITTERS 

Four eggs, one pint milk, a little salt, flour to make 
a light batter. Drop with a spoon into hot lard. 

APPLE FRITTERS 

Make the above batter. Slice the apples one-quarter 
of an inch thick the round way. Dip the slices into 
brandy, roll in the batter and fry in hot lard. Serve 
with sugar and wine. 

GOLDEN TOAST (Dessert) 

Take stale baker's bread, cut into very thick slices 
and soak it for one hour (or until it is thoroughly 
softened), in one quart of sweet milk, with four eggs 
well beaten into it. Then fry it in butter and send to 
the table hot, with a nice liquid sauce. 

SAUCE 

Boil one-half pint water and stir into it two table 
spoons of flour or arrowroot, mixed smoothly with a 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 31 

little cold water. Let this simmer slowly while you stir 
very light a teacup of white sugar and a lump of butter 
the size of an egg. Beat this into the boiling mixture. 
If your pudding is sweet, put in the juice of half a lemon, 
the other half cut in rings. If not sweet, a glass of wine 
and a little grated nutmeg. 



MARY'S PUDDING SAUCE 

One-half cup butter, one cup powdered sugar, three 
tablespoons boiling water, one tablespoon vanilla. 
Cream butter and sugar; add water and vanilla when 
ready to serve. 

LEMON SHERBET 

Six eggs, one cup sugar. Beat these together very 
light. Grate one lemon and use the juice of two lemons, 
one cup water. This will make one quart. 



LEMON ICE CREAM 

One quart milk, or part cream, one pint sugar, juice 
of four lemons and one orange if convenient. Cool the 
milk, then add lemon juice and sugar and put in freezer. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING (i) 
Three tablespoons Indian meal, two cups milk, two 
eggs, one tablespoon butter, one teaspoon salt, one cup 
molasses. Steam milk and meal in it for three quarters 
of an hour; add beaten eggs and other ingredients. 
Strain it and bake three quarters of an hour. 



32 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING (2) 

Boil one quart of milk. Stir into it one-half- pint 
Indian meal. Let it cool, then add four well-beaten 
eggs, two cups brown sugar, a little butter. Bake 
three hours. 

INDIAN PUDDING (S. W. W.) (3) 

Boil one quart milk and pour gradually on to six 
tablespoons Indian meal (rounded not heaped). Let it 
cool, then add piece of butter size of a butternut, tea- 
cup molasses, one teaspoon salt, good one-half teaspoon 
each of ginger and cinnamon. Pour into a buttered 
dish, and bake two hours or more in a moderate oven. 
It is well to stir it from the bottom once or twice, before 
the crust forms on top. Serve with butter or cream. 

BOILED INDIAN PUDDING 

Two cups Indian meal; scald it with one pint boiling 
milk. Add one cup flour, one cup beef or veal suet, 
chopped fine, one-half gill molasses, two cups dried 
apples, teaspoon of salt. Mix this well together. Tie 
the cloth so as to allow the pudding to swell one third. 
Boil constantly for five hours. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

One pint milk put over to boil. Take one-half cup 
sugar, two tablespoons cornstarch, and one egg. Beat 
these well together. Stir them into the scalded milk. 
When thoroughly mixed add one square of chocolate, 
and put all in a mold and set where it will get cold. 
Serve with cream sweetened and flavored with vanilla. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 33 

RICE PUDDING 

Three-quarters cup of rice washed thoroughly, three 
pints milk, a very little salt; make pretty sweet to taste. 
Flavor with nutmeg or cinnamon. Bake slowly three 
or four hours. Serve cold. 

MONTREAL RICE PUDDING 

Seven tablespoons rice, — wash it well, — a pinch of salt, 
one tablespoon cinnamon, one cup light-brown sugar. 
Stir these well and add gradually two quarts milk, one 
cup raisins, a few shreds fresh orange peel, piece of butter 
the size of an egg for each quart of milk. Stir it two or 
three times after it goes into the oven. Bake slowly 
two or three hours. For small family one half this re- 
ceipt is sufficient. 

UNRIVALED PLUM PUDDING 

One and one-half pounds table raisins, one and three- 
quarters pounds currants, one pound seedless raisins, 
two pounds finest coffee sugar, two pounds bread crumbs, 
sixteen eggs, two pounds finely chopped suet, six ounces 
mixed candied peel (orange, lemon and citron), grated 
rind of two large lemons, one ounce grated nutmeg, 
one ounce ground cinnamon, four ounces Jordan almonds, 
one cup brandy. This will make one large pudding, 
or two small ones. Stone and cut the raisins, but do 
not chop them. Wash and dry the currants and cut 
the candied peel into thin slices. Mix all the dry 
ingredients well together, and moisten with the eggs, 
which should be well beaten and strained into the 
pudding. Stir in the brandy, and when all is thoroughly 



34 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

mixed, butter and flour well a stout new pudding-cloth. 
Put in the pudding, tie it down very tightly and closely, 
boil from six to eight hours, and serve with brandy 
sauce. 

PLUM PUDDING (New London) 

Three cups flour, one cup milk, with piece of butter the 
size of an egg melted in it (a cup of suet may be used 
instead of butter), one cup molasses, one teaspoon soda, 
two teaspoons cream tartar or three teaspoons baking 
powder, a little salt, one cup of raisins, one cup 
currants, one cup citron. Put the batter in a cake pan, 
and steam it three and one-half hours. Do not lift the 
cover while steaming. Serve with hot sauce. 

SAUCE 

Rub equal parts of butter and sugar together. Add 
a little vinegar, and stir it well in. Spice to your taste. 
Then add a few tablespoons of boiling water, which 
will make it foam beautifully. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

Make a dough, very short (shorter than for biscuit), 
roll it out in two layers, put dots of butter between. 
Bake fifteen minutes. Separate layers, put back in 
oven and dry a few minutes. Fill with sugared berries. 

WHORTLEBERRY PUDDING 

Into one pint sifted flour stir one and one-half pints 
whortleberries, taking care not to break them. Dust 
in a little salt; add a cup of molasses into which put a 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 35 

lamp of soda, not as large as a walnut. Stir all together 
and boil about one and one-half hours. In tying up, 
leave but little room to swell. Serve with sauce. 

SUNDERLAND PUDDING 

Five eggs, six large tablespoons flour, a little salt. 
Mix eggs and flour together with a little milk until 
perfectly smooth, then add more milk, making a thin 
batter, and beat well. Fill the cups two thirds full, 
and bake immediately in a hot oven. It is difficult to 
give the exact quantity of milk, as flour varies a little, 
but the receipt calls for nearly a quart. 

RENNET CUSTARD (SUp) 
Three pints milk, warmed and sweetened, with nut- 
meg or any flavoring preferred. To this add one table- 
spoon rennetwine and set it away to cool. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE 

Stew the apples and sweeten to taste. Add a little 
lemon or any spice preferred. Rub the mold well 
with butter and line with bread crumbs. Then add 
the apples and cover over with bread crumbs and small 
pieces of butter. Bake from half to three quarters of 
an hour. Serve hot with wine sauce, or cream if pre- 
ferred. 

MARLBOROUGH PUDDING (Very old receipt) 

Fourteen tablespoons stewed sour apple, ten table- 
spoons butter, twelve tablespoons sugar, six eggs 
beaten separately, twelve teaspoons wine. To be 
baked in a paste. 



36 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

LEMON PUDDING 

Boil one pint of milk, crumble stale bread iuto it 
sufficient to thicken the milk. Grate the peel of two 
lemons, and add the juice of one. Butter size of an eggy 
two or three eggs and sugar to taste. Bake in a crust. 

ORANGE PUDDING 

Take four good-sized oranges; squeeze them and 
strain the juice. Yolks of five eggs well beaten, butter 
the size of an egg, melted. Mix all well together and 
sweeten with white sugar to taste. Take the rind of 
the oranges and put in a saucepan with a little water. 
Let simmer till quite soft, then strain off the water and 
pound in a mortar till in a paste. Mix this well with 
other ingredients. Bake in a crust. 

MOCK MINCE PIES 

Three Boston crackers rolled fine, one and one-half cups 
cold water, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, two-thirds 
cup vinegar, one cup chopped raisins, a few whole 
raisins (if yoa choose, instead of the vinegar, put 
part lemon juice and a little orange and lemon peel 
grated), one-half cup butter or chopped suet melted 
in one-half cup hot water, one-half teaspoon each of 
black pepper, salt, and clove, two teaspoons cinnamon, 
one nutmeg. This makes three pies. 

HUCKLEBERRY PIE 

One pound berries, ten ounces sugar, butter size of a 
walnut, two teaspoons cinnamon, a little nutmeg and 
salt, heaping teaspoon flour. Bake in a crust. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 37 

ONEIDA PUMPKIN PIE 

One pint pumpkin or squash, stewed until quite dry 
and rubbed through a sieve, one quart milk, one-half 
pint cream, one-half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon each 
of cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg, two teaspoons ginger, 
three tablespoons brown sugar, one tablespoon molasses, 
five well-beaten eggs; or if eggs are scarce one table- 
spoon cornstarch mixed in a little cold milk will take 
the place of two eggs. If yoa cannot get cream, melt a 
bit of butter, size of a hickory nut, in a half -pint milk. 
Always stir in the milk last. 

SQUASH PUDDING (Salem) 

Two bowls squash, one and one-half bowls milk, one 
bowl sugar, six eggs, rind and juice of three lemons, 
one -half cup butter, four groat biscuit. Bake in a 
crust. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

For one pie: One cup pumpkin, two eggs, yolks and 
whites beaten separately, five tablespoons sugar, one 
teaspoon cinnamon (a little more than level), one tea- 
spoon ginger, one-quarter grated nutmeg, a little salt, 
one cup milk stirred in last. The day before it is 
needed for the pie, stew the pumpkin very thoroughly 
until it is perfectly soft. Mash it with potato-masher, 
and rub through sieve. 

CANNED PUMPKIN PIE 

One quart canned pumpkin, stewed down quite dry 
(this must, of course, be done the day before baking). 



38 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

one quart rich milk, five eggs beaten separately, one 
tablespoon ginger, or less, according to taste, one-half 
teaspoon cinnamon or cassia, and mace or nutmeg, one 
tablespoon common molasses to give a good color, a 
pinch of salt, and sugar to taste, probably at least 
a cup of sugar. 

BAVARIAN CREAM 

One pint of sweet cream made very cold, small wine- 
glass of wine, powdered sugar to make it palatable. 
Beat it in a pitcher or stone jar with an egg beater 
until quite thick. 

CINDERELLAS, OR GERMAN PUFFS 

Sift eight tablespoons of finest flour. Cut up in a 
quart of rich milk half a pound of butter, and set it 
near the fire till it is melted. Beat eight eggs very 
light and stir them gradually into the milk and butter, 
alternately with the flour. Add one grated nutmeg 
and one teaspoon powdered cinnamon. Mix the whole 
very well, to a fine, smooth batter in which there must 
be no lumps. Butter some large teacups and divide 
the mixture among them until they are about half full. 
Set them immediately into a quick oven, and bake 
about fifteen minutes. When done turn them into a 
dish and grate white sugar over them. Serve hot, with 
sweetened cream flavored with wine and nutmeg, or 
with sugar and wine. Serve them whole, for they will 
fall almost as soon as cut. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 39 

MINCE MEAT (Very old and valuable) 

One beef tongue, which may weigh four or five pounds, 
five pounds sour apples, two pounds suet, one pint 
brandy, one-half pint wine, one quart and one pint 
pleasant cider, three pounds sugar, one-half pint molasses, 
six heaping tablespoons powdered cinnamon, four full 
teaspoons cloves, four full teaspoons pepper, two full 
teaspoons salt, two nutmegs, two teaspoons powdered 
mace, two and one-half pounds raisins, add a little 
citron and currants. This mince can be kept many 
weeks in a covered jar, but it will be necessary to add 
a little brandy or wine when you propose to bake it, 
after it has stood long. A little cream added when 
prepared for baking seems to soften the flavor of the 
mixture. 

KENTUCKY MINCE MEAT 

Four pounds fresh tongue, three pounds suet, eight 
pounds chopped apple, three pounds dried currants, 
four pounds seeded raisins, six pounds white sugar, two 
pounds citron cut small, four lemons (grated peel and 
juice), one ounce powdered cinnamon, one-quarter ounce 
powdered cloves, one-quarter ounce powdered allspice, 
four nutmegs grated, one pint Madeira wine, one quart 
boiled cider, one quart brandy. Boil the tongue in 
salted water until tender; when cold, chop fine. After 
removing every particle of membrane from suet, chop 
fine and mix with tongue. Salt enough to remove the 
fresh taste. To this add the apple, after which the 
other ingredients. Mix all well together and cover close. 
If too dry moisten with a little sweet cider. 



40 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

HANNAH'S MINCE MEAT 

Three large lemons, three large sour apples, _ one 
pound stoned raisins, one pound currants, one pound 
suet, two pounds coffee sugar, one ounce each of candied 
citron, orange and lemon peel, one cup brandy, two 
tablespoons orange marmalade, one teaspoon ground 
cinnamon. Grate rind of lemons, squeeze out juice 
and strain it. Boil the pulpy part of the lemons, chop 
very fine and add to the apples. Peel, core, and bake 
the apples. Chop suet and raisins very fine, and cut 
the candied fruit fine. This should be prepared and 
allowed to stand two or three weeks before use. 

FLANNEL CAKES (S. W. W.) 

One quart sifted flour a little heaped, two-thirds quart 
of milk warmed, with a lump of butter size of a butter- 
nut melted in it. When lukewarm stir slowly into the 
flour, being careful to stir out all lumps. Add the yolks, 
well beaten, of two eggs, and the white of one egg. One- 
half cake Fleischman's yeast, dissolved in four table- 
spoons water, and a little salt. If wanted for luncheon, 
mix at 7 a.m., set in a warm place, and it will be 
light by one o'clock. If for supper, set before 12 m. 
They should be fried the size of a breakfast -plate, 
buttered and sugared and sent to table hot, four in a 
pile to cut like pie. 

CORN MUFFINS 

One cup corn meal, one-half cup wheat flour, one 
and one-half cups sour milk, one-half teaspoon soda, 
one egg beaten, one tablespoon sugar, two tablespoons 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 41 

melted butter. Mix all but the butter, egg, and soda 
over night, beat them in well in the morning, and 
bake in muffin-rings on a griddle. 

YANKEE SHORTCAKE 

One pound sifted flour with one-quarter pound butter 
rubbed in. Wet with cold water stiff enough to roll 
out in sheets. Bake in square tins, scoring across like 
diamonds. This is better baked before the fire than in 
the oven. A nice way is to cut it in small cakes, and 
put two together, one on top of the other before baking. 
For dessert, spread fruit or jam or jelly between the 
layers. If for tea or luncheon, cut in round cakes, half- 
inch thick, and when baked split open and spread with 
butter and put together again. This is good for pie- 
crust, adding one-half pound lard. 

DRESSING FOR SALAD 

Yolk of one raw egg, stir in slowly four tablespoons 
olive oil, one tablespoon vinegar; add salt and mustard 
to suit the taste. Stir it all slowly, and pour it over 
the salad just before serving. 

DRESSING FOR COLD SLAW (i) 

Two eggs well beaten, six tablespoons cream, one 
teaspoon each of salt, pepper, and mustard, four tea- 
spoons sugar, one-half teaspoon celery seed, six table- 
spoons vinegar, one tablespoon butter. Mix these 
ingredients together with a little of the egg, then put all 
together. Have the vinegar hot in a pail of hot water, 



42 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

and stir the mixture in slowly. Cook until it thickens. 
When cold pour over the cabbage. 

DRESSING FOR COLD SLAW (2) 

Beat two eggs in a bowl that will fit over your tea- 
kettle. Add one gill of water and vinegar mixed, one 
ounce butter, one teaspoon each of salt and sugar. Set 
it over the boiling kettle and stir until thicker than 
boiled custard. When cold pour over the sliced cabbage. 

DRESSED CABBAGE 

Chop cabbage till fine ; beat an egg ; add one teaspoon 
each of pepper, salt, sugar, mustard, and butter. Stir 
them well together and scald with sufficient vinegar to 
moisten a dish of the cabbage. Double the quantity 
may be prepared at one time, like chicken salad. 

SAUCE HOLLANDAISE 

Put a piece of butter size of a pigeon's egg into a 
saucepan, and when it bubbles stir in, with an egg whisk 
or spoon, an even tablespoon of flour. Let it continue 
to bubble until the flour is thoroughly cooked, when 
stir in one-half pint boiling water, or, better, veal stock. 
When it boils take from the fire, and stir into it grad- 
ually the beaten yolks of two eggs. Return sauce to 
the fire for a minute, to set the eggs, without allowing 
it to boil. Again remove the sauce, stir in juice of half 
a small lemon, and fresh butter size of a walnut, cut into 
small pieces to facilitate its melting, and stir all well 
with the whisk or egg beater. This is good for cauli- 
flower, artichokes, asparagus, and boiled fish. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 43 

DESSERT SAUCE FOR CAKE (Rachel's receipt) 

One cup butter and two cups sugar stirred to a cream, 
one egg thoroughly beaten and mixed with these, one 
small teacup of scalded wine stirred in. Boil the whole 
for a few minutes and then pour into the boat in which 
it is to remain. This sauce is very nice with any kind 
of cake for dessert. 

WINE SAUCE 

One-half cup butter and one and one-half cups sugar 
rubbed to a cream. Mix one-half wineglass of water 
with one glass wine and let boil; then pour it on the 
butter and sugar. Do not stir until it is sent to table. 

RICH WINE SAUCE 

Butter size of a hen's egg, with one cup sugar. Mix 
them thoroughly and add four tablespoons milk, a 
teaspoon at a time, and stir about an hour. Then let 
simmer over the fire without stirring until butter and 
sugar are melted. Pour one-half wineglass of wine 
into a boat with a little nutmeg. Mix all together for 
the table. 

WINE SAUCE 

One cup sugar, yolk of one egg, one-half cup butter, 
teaspoon of flour, all rubbed well together, one cup 
water. Boil the whole for a few minutes, and when 
done add one wineglass wine. 

WINE SAUCE (Easy and good) 
One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup wine. 



44 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

BLUEBERRY CAKE 

Two eggs, three-quarters cup butter, one cup sugar, 
two scant cups flour, one and one-half teaspoons baking 
powder, one cup milk, one cup blueberries. Beat butter, 
sugar, and eggs together. Add flour and baking powder 
slowly, then the milk, and last the fruit wiiich must 
be well dried and rubbed in flour. 

COTTAGE PUDDING (J. B. M.) 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup milk, one 
pint flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one egg. 

MUSH, OR HASTY PUDDING (Mrs. Miller) 

One quart water, one teaspoon salt, one half pint 
corn meal heaped, and one scant gill wheat flour 
which should be mixed smoothly with cold water. Put 
water and salt over the fire; when hot, not boiling, take 
out half a pint and mix it with the corn meal , and when 
the water boils fast, pour this in and stir until it thickens, 
then let it boil slowly, uncovered, for an hour. A good 
dish for lunch or a country tea. It may be eaten hot 
with butter and syrup, or partly cool with milk or cream. 

*' SPANISH OMELET " 

" Four thin slices of bacon fried until crisp. Drain 
them from the fat, add two tablespoons of minced onion 
and cook in the hot fat until yellow. Add also two ripe 
tomatoes, and one tablespoon green pepper freed from 
seeds and chopped fine. Let them cook slowly without 
scorching, while you beat four eggs slightly. Add a 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 45 

little salt and four tablespoons of hot water. Put one 
teaspoon of butter in a hot omelet pan, turn in the 
mixture and draw the cooked portion towards the 
center as it thickens. When all the egg is firm, skim 
out the vegetable mixture and put it in the center, add 
the crisp bacon finely crumbled, fold the other half of 
the omelet over, and turn out on a hot platter. This 
is one of the most delicious and satisfactory of the great 
variety of fancy omelets." 

CHICKEN SALAD 

Two yolks of eggs, one-quarter teaspoon salt; add oil 
drop by drop. If you choose, add later one-quarter 
teaspoon dry mustard to one-half pint olive oil. If 
you fear the oil and egg separating, add a few drops of 
tarragon vinegar or lemon juice. When sufficiently 
light, add tablespoon of vinegar or lemon juice and dust 
in grain of red pepper. Cut your chicken ; use one-third 
less celery than chicken, or one part chicken and two 
parts celery. Mix meat and celery together, sprinkle 
on it salt and pepper, and then mix in the oil dressing, 
but keep the three parts separate until you are ready to 
use the salad. Garnish with celery tops and capers. 

SAUCE TARTARE 

With the above oil dressing use capers, gherkins, or 
olives. Chop fine and stir in. Squeeze juice of parsley. 

CHICKEN SALAD 

Take one large chicken and boil until tender. Sepa- 
rate the meat from the skin, fat, etc., and chop the dark 



46 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

meat quite fine. The white meat, cut in larger pieces 
with a sharp knife. Use by measure about equal 
quantities of celery and chicken, cutting celery with a 
knife, not very fine. If you are obliged to use the stump, 
shave it thin and then chop. For this amount take 
three eggs and beat them very thoroughly, whites and 
yolks together. One-half cup mixed mustard, one tea- 
spoon salt, a very little cayenne, and about half of a 
small teacup of sharp vinegar with a teaspoon of sugar 
dissolved in it. Beat the mustard and one teacup of 
olive oil thoroughly together in an earthen dish. Then 
add the eggs, then the cayenne, then the vinegar. Put 
into it about an ounce of butter, set the dish over a 
kettle of boiling water, and stir constantly until it is as 
thick as paste. Mix the salad, stir into it black pepper 
and salt to taste and one cup of cream. Then mix it 
with the paste, leaving some to pour over it. This is 
enough for ten persons. 

A NICE SALAD FOR LUNCH OR IN THE COURSE OF 

A DINNER (Cheese Salad) 

Make a little nest of lettuce leaves. Put three little 
eggs of cream cheese in the middle, a spoonful of mayon- 
naise under and over them, and dust some lobster-coral 
to make them look well. In preparing the eggs: Put 
a cream cheese in a bowl and make it soft with your 
hands, add little salt and a shake of cayenne. Wash 
your hands in hot water, then in cold water, and dry 
thoroughly. Take a little cheese at a time and roll in 
small round balls, and use as told above. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 47 

TOMATO SALAD 

One can tomatoes, one-half box gelatine, one-half an 
onion, red pepper to taste, one bay leaf, two tablespoons 
sugar, salt to taste. Put the above in a saucepan and 
boil slowly for one hour. Strain through a hair sieve. 
Pour into a mold. When cool, put on ice eight or ten 
hours. Serve with mayonnaise in lettuce cups and 
leaves. 

CHEESE CAKES 

One-quarter pound Parmesan cheese, one-quarter 
pound butter, one-quarter pound flour. Put cheese in 
bowl, mix butter with it very thoroughly with your 
hand, a shake of salt and cayenne pepper, then add the 
flour very thoroughly. Roll out on a floured board as 
quickly as you can, with roller. Cut with biscuit cutter 
and bake in quick oven. For the second pan gather 
fragments together, and add a very little water, to make 
them mix. Roll out quickly as above. Serve these 
with tomato or any other salad. 

" SARDINES IN BREAD SHELLS " 

'^ Cut inch-thick slices of bread with a round cutter, 
two inches in diameter. Scoop out a little cavity in each 
and fry them a delicate brown in hot butter, or spread 
all over with softened butter and toast them in the oven. 
Melt one round tablespoon of butter in a saucepan; add 
one level teaspoon of flour, and when mixed, add one- 
half cup of boiling water, and stir until thick and 
smooth. Add one tablespoon of essence of anchovy, 



48 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

or one of any favorite table sauce, a little salt, and shake 
of cayenne. Remove the skin and bones from one 
dozen sardines, mash them to a paste with a fork, add- 
ing the sifted yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and lemon 
juice to taste. Fill the bread shells with the mixture, 
arrange themjpn a hot dish, and pour the hot sauce over 
and around them." 



Chapter III 
BREADS 



WHITE BREAD (Annie Rooney) 

Scald one quart of milk. Add one pint of boiling water, 
one tablespoon salt, two tablespoons sugar, one table- 
spoon lard, one tablespoon butter, one yeast cake 
dissolved in one-quarter cup lukewarm water. Add 
flour enough to make a stiff dough; knead well. Let it 
rise over night. In the morning, knead into loaves; 
let rise until light. Bake in moderate oven from three 
quarters to one hour. If rolls are needed, take part of 
same dough, mold into any shape desired, and bake in 
hot oven twenty minutes. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD 

Dissolve one yeast cake in two tablespoons tepid 
water. Put into a bowl one pint milk; add to it one 
pint boiling water, and let stand until it is lukewarm; 
then add the dissolved yeast, one teaspoon salt, and 
enough whole wheat flour to make a thick batter. (The 
batter should drop, not run, off the spoon.) Beat this 
batter with a spoon for fifteen minutes. It becomes 
quite soft and liquid by beating. Add enough more 
flour to make a dough ; turn it on to the board and knead 
it for a few minutes. Let rise over night. In the morn- 



50 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

ing mold into loaves. Let it rise again. Then bake 
in a moderate oven, from three quarters to one hour. 



MORETON FARM BROWN BREAD 

Two quarts graham flour, one quart white flour, 
one-half cup yeast or one-half yeast cake, one scant 
tablespoon salt, one-half cup brown sugar, enough warm 
water to make a stiff batter. Beat with a spoon for 
fifteen minutes, and when well mixed, set it to rise. It 
will rise in a warm place in four hours if the yeast is 
good, and must therefore be left in rather a cool place 
if left to rise over night. When raised, mix with it 
one teaspoon soda dissolved in warm water, and flour 
enough to shape it into loaves, but be careful not to 
get it too stiff. Let it rise again for half an hour, and 
bake slowly for a little more than an hour. Make the 
loaves small. 

INDIAN LOAF (H. M. H.) 

One pint Indian meal, one pint flour, one pint sour 
milk, one-half cup shortening, one-half cup molasses, 
one teaspoon salt, one small tablespoon soda. Butter 
a two-quart basin, put it in, set it in a steamer, leave it 
one hour, then bake half an hour. Serve hot. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT (Mrs. Miller) 

One pound flour, one ounce butter, and two ounces 
lard (which must be sweet and firm), three gills sweet 
milk, one teaspoon salt, five teaspoons baking powder 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 51 

(this must be taken up in the teaspoon, slightly pressed 
and made even by passing the side of the knife-blade 
directly over it). Put it with half a gill of the flour and 
sift it into the rest of the flour through a very fine sieve. 
Mix thoroughly, then rub the butter, lard, and salt 
through the flour until quite fine. Pour in the milk, 
mix lightly, place it on the floured board, and roll out 
without any kneading. Cut, prick, and bake in a quick 
oven. 

RAISED BISCUIT (i) 

Four pints flour, one tablespoon lard, one-half pint 
milk, a little salt, one-half pint water. Stir this up with 
two tablespoons yeast or one -half yeast cake. Stir this 
stiff over night, work it over in the morning, and bake 
when light. 

RAISED BISCUIT (2) (Canadian receipt) 

One-half cake compressed yeast, or one-half cup 
liquid yeast, one cup scalded milk, one cup cold milk, 
one cup shortening (butter or lard), the beaten white 
of one egg, a little salt and sugar, sufficient flour to make 
a light dough. Beat well with spoon and set to rise. 
When quite light, beat again and let rise again. Then 
roll thin and cut into small biscuits. Bake in quick 
oven. 

RAISED BISCUIT (3) 

Boil and mash four or five potatoes. Add flour, 
water, and one cup of good yeast to make a quart of 
sponge. Place in a warm room at evening; it should 



52 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

be very light in the morning. Then stir in a tablespoon 
of pulverized sugar, and enough sifted flour to make a 
thick batter. Let it stand until quite light. Add two 
small cups of butter rubbed in flour, and two well-beaten 
eggs. Mix all together, make soft and mold well. 
Roll out, cut, and let the biscuit rise in the pans twenty 
or thirty minutes. Bake twenty-five or thirty minutes 
in a quick oven. This quantity will make a hundred 
biscuits. 

" HELEN'S ROLLS " 

One-half pint water, one-half pint milk, one pint flour. 
Beat together with egg beater and pour into gem pans 
that are very hot. Bake in very hot oven. 

" PARKER HOUSE " ROLLS 

One quart flour, one ounce lard, one-half pint milk, 
one-half gill of yeast or one-quarter of a yeast cake in 
one-half cup warm water, one-half tablespoon sugar, one- 
half teaspoon salt. In the evening put the flour in a 
bowl. Put salt and lard in the milk and warm until the 
lard is melted. When the milk is lukewarm, add the 
yeast and pour into the center of the flour. Mix it to a 
thin batter, cover and leave it in the cellar. In the 
morning, work it thoroughly and let it rise. Two hours 
before tea, roll it out two-thirds of an inch thick, cut 
with a tin cutter four inches across. With a feather, 
coat half of the top with melted butter and lap it nearly 
over the other half, then draw them out a little to make 
them roll-shaped. Lay them apart in buttered pans, 
and when light, bake. If they are wanted for lunch. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 53 

mix about noon of the day before, and at bedtime 
*' work it thoroughly and let it rise." 

BREAD STICKS 

One cake of compressed yeast dissolved in one-half 
cup warm water, one teaspoon sugar, one tablespoon 
flour. Add the above to one cup of milk mixed with 
one cup hot water, or two cups warm water, one teaspoon 
butter, one teaspoon salt. Thicken with flour and beat 
fifteen minues. Then add more flour to make it stiff 
enough to knead. Turn out on board, knead until it 
ceases to stick, place in bowl in temperature 75 degrees 
for three hours. Knead again. Make into long, thin 
sticks, or to fit bread-stick pans. Let rise ten minutes, 
brush with melted butter and bake ten minutes. 

CORN BREAD 

One cup corn meal, one cup flour, one and one-half 
teaspoons baking powder, two teaspoons sugar, one- 
half teaspoon salt, one egg, beaten with one cup milk, 
one tablespoon of any kind of shortening. Mix in the 
order given. Bake twenty minutes. 

CONNECTICUT CORN BREAD 

One pint sour milk, beaten yolks of four eggs, one 
tablespoon Indian meal, briskly stirring the mixture 
while adding the meal. To this add one-half teaspoon 
soda, one tablespoon melted butter, whites of eggs 
beaten to a froth. Then sufficient meal to form a 
smooth batter consistency of hasty-padding. Bake 
in brisk oven. 



54 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

CORN BREAD (Rose) 

Beat up one egg, add to it one tablespoon sugar, 
pinch of salt, one-half cup milk, three-quarters cup com 
meal, one cup fiour, in which is sifted two teaspoons 
baking powder. Add one-half cup more of milk; beat 
all very thoroughly, and lastly add two tablespoons 
melted butter. Pour into dripping pan, and bake about 
half an hour. 

SOFT WAFFLES 

Stir into one quart of flour enough milk to make a 
stiff batter; one tablespoon melted butter, two well- 
beaten eggs, salt, one-half cup yeast, or one-half yeast 
cake. 

SOUR MILK GRIDDLE CAKES 

One quart thick sour milk. Stir in flour until it is 
quite stiff. Add a little salt. When the griddle is hot 
dissolve one teaspoon soda in a little water, stir it in 
quickly and bake. 

INDIAN GRIDDLE CAKES 

One cup very fine Indian meal, scalded; let it stand to 
cool a little. Soften with milk. Add one small cup 
fiour, two eggs, salt. Fry on hot griddle, 

BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES WITH MILK (Mrs. Putnam) 

Soak pieces of stale bread in milk until they are soft, 
season it with a little salt and sugar. Put four eggs to 
a pint of milk and as much bread as will make a thick 
batter. Bake on a griddle. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 55 

BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES WITH WATER 

Soak pieces of stale bread in cold water until quite 
soft ; turn them into a sieve and drain out all the water ; 
then rub bread through a colander. To about a quart of 
this add three eggs, a little salt, and as much milk as 
will make a thick batter. Bake on a griddle and serve 
very hot. 

SHORTCAKE (New London) 

Two quarts fiour, one small teaspoon cream of tartar 
to every pint of flour, and two teaspoons soda. Rub 
both well into the flour, or use equal quantity baking 
powder, one cup butter, also rubbed into the flour, one 
and one-third pints milk, salt. Stir up quickly and roll 
out as soft as you can. Bake in two bread pans. 

MUFFINS 

Three pints flour, one pint water lukewarm, one cup 

baker's yeast or one yeast cake, one tablespoon sugar, 

one teaspoon salt. Make them up in the morning for 

tea, or at night for breakfast, and bake them in muflin 

rings. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS 

One cup graham flour, one-half cup white flour, one 
and one-half teaspoons baking powder, one egg well 
beaten, one heaping tablespoon butter, one tablespoon 
sugar, one teaspoon salt. This makes twelve muffins. 
Use ^' Glenn Mills " graham flour. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS 

Beat as many eggs as needed in an earthen dish. Add 
three more tablespoons of milk than there are eggs. 



56 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

Butter the size of small egg, salt and pepper. Stir con- 
stantly while cooking on top of stove. 



BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

One pint Indian meal scalded in boiling water. Pour 
in the water a little at a time, stirring it smooth. Let 
it stand until cool. Add one quart buckwheat flour, a 
scoopful wheat flour, one tablespoon salt, two yeast 
cakes. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES (Flora) 

Into one quart warm water stir one yeast cake and 
wheat flour enough for a thick batter. Let it rise for 
several hours. At bedtime stir this thick with buck- 
wheat flour. In the morning add one teaspoon soda, 
well dissolved, and one heaping tablespoon brown sugar. 
This will last a week, adding every night a little more 
buckwheat and the soda and sugar in the morning. 
Cold buckwheat cakes may be returned to the batter 
and the acid will dissolve them. 



INDIAN BREAD 

Two thirds Indian meal, one third coarse flour. Pour 
boiling water on meal and let stand until cool. Then 
put in yeast and a little salt. Make it so that it can be 
stirred with a spoon. Let it rise, and when light put 
in the flour and one tablespoon molasses, one-half cup 
sour cream with one-half teaspoon soda. Bake two 
and one -half hours. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 57 

SALLY LUNN (i) 

Sift one-half pound of fiour into a pan. Make a hole 
in the middle and put in two ounces of butter warmed 
in a pint of milk, a saltspoon of salt, three well-beaten 
eggs, two tablespoons best fresh yeast or one-half yeast 
cake. Mix flour well into the other ingredients and put 
the whole into a square tin pan that has been greased 
with butter. Cover and set in a warm place, and when 
light bake in a moderate oven. Send to table hot, to 
be eaten with butter. 

SALLY LUNN (2) 

One and one-half pounds flour, two ounces butter, 
three eggs well beaten, one pint warm milk, three or 
four tablespoons yeast, one-half teaspoon salt. 

PLAIN OMELET 

Take six eggs, beat yolks and whites separately and 
very light. Heat the spider very hot. Put in a piece 
of butter size of a walnut. Add to your yolks pepper 
and salt and about three-quarters cup of milk, then the 
whites, and stir all together lightly and pour into the 
spider. Set into a very hot oven and bake three or 
four minutes. The secret of success with it is to have 
the spider and the oven very hot and to bake quickly. 

POPOVERS 

Two cups flour, two cups milk, three eggs, one-half 
teaspoon salt. Grease gem pans and put in oven to get 
very hot. Beat eggs without separating until very 
light, and add to them the milk and salt. Pour this 



58 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

gradually on the flour, stirring all the while. Do not 
add too rapidly, or the batter will be so liquid that it 
cannot be beaten smooth. Strain through a sieve, to 
remove any little lumps that may remain. Take the 
gem pans from the oven, quickly fill them half full of 
this mixture, put them in a quick oven, and bake about 
twenty-five minutes. 

ROSE'S POPOVERS 

Two eggs (beat good and hard), pinch of salt, even cup 
of milk. Take half of the milk, pour it on egg and salt, 
add one even cup sifted flour ; beat hard ; add remainder 
of milk. Beat all very thoroughly, put in well-greased 
tins, and bake about twenty minutes. 

JONES'S BUNS (Canadian) 

One pound flour, a little salt, one-quarter pound butter, 
two eggs well beaten, one-half pint warm milk, three- 
quarters cup hop yeast. Mix all together; set to rise 
for three hours; then add one-quarter pound sugar, 
currants, and seasoning to taste. Put in patty pans, 
and let stand until light. Bake in quick oven. 

DOUGHNUTS (i) 

Three pints flour, butter size of an egg, one cup sugar, 
one egg, small bowlful of milk or water, four teaspoons 
baking powder. Flavor with nutmeg or cinnamon. 
The dough made in this way will be thin. Sprinkle 
flour enough over it and on the kneading board to roll 
it out nicely. Do not handle more than necessary. 
Cut the cakes with biscuit cutter, then insert a knife 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 59 

at edge of the cake, until its point is at the center. Take 
out knife, press a raisin into center of cake. Press and 
flatten the cake and cut it again with cutter. Fry in 
perfectly clear hot lard, and when done sift powdered 
sugar over them. The bowl used for measure holds a 
little more than a coffee cup does. 

DOUGHNUTS (2) 
Six cups light dough, two cups sugar, one cup lard, 
one egg, a little soda, salt, and cinnamon. 

CONNECTICUT DOUGHNUTS (3) (Good) 
Make a sponge with one pint milk, small teacup yeast 
or one-half yeast cake, flour enough to make a thick 
batter. When light, add two cups sugar, one cup lard 
or butter, four eggs, two teaspoons cinnamon, one tea- 
spoon salt. Roll out the dough until about one-half 
inch thick. Let it rise about twenty minutes, before 
boiling in lard. 

DOUGHNUTS (4) 

Three eggs, two cups sugar, butter size of an Qgg, one 
teaspoon soda, one cup milk, one nutmeg, four cups of 
flour. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD (S. E. C.) 

Three-quarters pound flour, seven ounces butter, seven 
ounces sugar, one and one-half gills molasses, one and 
one-half gills thick sour milk, one tablespoon ginger, one 
teaspoon soda dissolved in tablespoon boiling water, 
three eggs. Soften the butter and beat it with the 
sugar until light. Stir in gradually the molasses and 



6o The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

ginger, then the milk and the well-beaten eggs, and half 
of the sifted flour, then the soda and the rest of the flour. 
This is very nice baked in round gem pans, particularly 
if it is to be eaten hot. 

FAIRY GINGERBREAD (H. L. H.) 

One cup powdered sugar, one cup butter, two eggs 
beaten separately. Beat whites very stiff. One and 
one -half tablespoons ginger, flour enough to be able to 
spread with a knife on flat tin as thin as possible. 

THIN MOLASSES GINGERBREAD (M. L. P.) 
One-half cup butter, one-half cup sugar, one teaspoon 
soda dissolved in one-half cup of warm water, one table- 
spoon ginger, one cup molasses, and flour enough to 
roll out thin. 

THIN GINGERBREAD (M. L. P.) 

Two and one-half pounds flour, one and one-quarter 
pounds sugar, one and one-half pounds butter, one tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in one-half wineglass of rose 
water or warm water, one -half cup ginger, six eggs. 

CREAM GINGERBREAD 

Two cups cream, two cups molasses, two eggs, two 
teaspoons soda, one tablespoon salt, four cups sifted 
flour, ginger and cinnamon to taste; a little lard is an 
improvement. Bake half an hour. 

HOP YEAST 

One large handful fresh hops in cheese-cloth bag, 
three good-sized potatoes. Boil together in three 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 6i 

quarts water. Strain and add to the water one pint 
flour. Beat together until smooth; add one tablespoon 
sugar, one teaspoon salt, same of ginger. When cool, 
add one-half cup good yeast or one-half yeast cake. 
Let rise for twenty -four hours before bottling. 

POTATO YEAST (Without flour) 

Pare and cut in slices twelve good-sized potatoes. 
Boil in two or three quarts of water (in a porcelain vessel) 
with a handful of hops tied in a thin cloth or muslin. 
Mash and strain through a colander while hot, add the 
water in which it was boiled, also a cup of sugar, and 
one-half cup of salt. When cool enough stir in a pint 
of good yeast. Place in a jar or jug. When light, or 
after twenty-four hours, cork tightly or cover closely. 
This yeast will keep good as long as it will last. 

OATMEAL GRUEL 

Put in a farina boiler one quart milk and water, and 
let come to a scald. Then dust in one tablespoon oat 
meal and boil forty minutes. Strain and add salt. 

MILK TOAST (Mrs. Putnam) 

Put half a pound of butter into a tin toast pan; 
dredge on a little flour and rub it in with a spoon; turn 
on a teacupful of boiling water, stirring it all the time; 
then add three gills of milk or cream, and stir it until it 
boils up once. Toast the bread a light brown; dip it 
while it is hot, one piece at a time; lay them in the dish 
and over each piece put a large spoonful of the dip. 
When the dish is filled, pour the dip over the whole. 



62 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

SOUR MILK BISCUIT (Mrs. Putnam) 
One quart of flour, one pint sour milk, one teaspoon 
soda mixed into the milk until it froths. Stir it into the 
flour cold; mix it quickly; roll it about an inch thick; 
cut it with a biscuit cutter. Bake in a quick oven. 

BANNOCK (C. H. L.) 

One and one-half pints Indian meal, scald with hot 
water; one pint of milk, one and one-half tablespoons 
sugar, butter one-half size of an egg, one egg, a little 
salt. Bake in quick oven. 

DRIPPING FOR THE FRYING PAN 

(From Mrs. Putnam's new receipt book) 

The dripping of beef and pork, clarified, is very nice 
to fry in, instead of lard or butter. To clarify it, put 
the drippings into an iron pot. To a quart of fat, 
allow half a pint of cold water ; let it boil until the water 
is boiled out, which may be known by its not bubbling. 
When the water has evaporated, strain it into an earthen 
pot, and keep it in a cool place for use. 

CRULLERS (i) 
One egg, one tablespoon melted butter, one tablespoon 
sugar, a little nutmeg or cinnamon, one tablespoon milk, 
one-quarter teaspoon soda, sufficient flour to roll out. 
Cut and fry in hot lard as you would doughnuts. 

CRULLERS (2) 
One pound sugar, ten ounces butter, twelve eggs, 
one teaspoon soda, one glass brandy, nutmeg, flour 
enough to mix it to a soft paste. Fry in hot lard. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 63 

ROSE'S COOKIES 

One cup sugar, one-half cup milk, two eggs, three- 
quarters cup butter, three cups flour, three teaspoons 
baking powder, a little nutmeg. Beat all together 
with Dover egg beater. 

TEA CAKE 

One quart fiour, three teaspoons baking powder, two 
tablespoons sugar, three eggs, one-quarter cup butter, 
one pint sweet milk, pinch of salt as it goes in the oven. 
Bake in square tins and cut like corn bread (or, bake in 
muffin rings) for three quarters of an hour. 

QUAKER OATS CAKES 

One cup granulated sugar, one large tablespoon 
butter; cream these thoroughly together; two eggs 
beaten very light, add to butter and sugar. Two and 
one-half cups of uncooked Quaker Rolled Oats mixed 
with one teaspoon baking powder. Stir this slowly into 
the mixture and add one teaspoon of vanilla. Drop 
from a teaspoon on well-buttered tins, not too close 
together, as they spread. Bake in quick oven, from 
five to seven minutes. In dropping, do not make the 
teaspoon too full, as the cakes are better thin. 

OATMEAL MUFFINS (Cooking School) 

Mix one cup of cooked oatmeal with a generous pint 
of flour. Add one teaspoon salt, one-quarter cup sugar. 
Dissolve one-quarter of a yeast cake in one-quarter cup 
of lukewarm water; add this, with three-quarters cup 
of milk scalded and cooled. Beat well. Let rise over 



64 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

night. Beat again and put in gem pans on back of 
stove. Let them rise twenty minutes. Bake thirty- 
minutes in moderate oven. 

HOE CAKE 

Two quarts Indian meal; scald in boiling water to 
make a thin batter. Two tablespoons butter, one table- 
spoon salt. Bake, one inch thick, in quick oven, half 
an hour. 

WATER MUFFINS (C. H. L.) 

One quart water, one and one-half quarts flour, one- 
half cup yeast, a little salt. 

BREAKFAST CAKE (" Nantucket Receipts ") 

Two cups flour, two eggs, one-third cup sugar, one 

cup milk, three teaspoons baking powder. Mix quickly, 

and bake about twenty minutes in a shallow pan; or 

this may be baked like muffins, in small round cake tins. 

SPONGE RUSK 

One tumbler of milk, one cup of yeast or one-half 
yeast cake, three cups flour, three eggs, made into a 
batter over night. In the morning add one cup sugar, 
piece of butter the size of an egg, flour until sufficiently 
stifE to mold. Then butter your dishes, and when light 
cover the surface with white of an egg and sugar. 

SCONES 

Two cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one 
teaspoon salt, one-half cup butter, two tablespoons 
sugar, one egg well beaten, one-half cup seedless raisins 
or currants. Mix thoroughly; roll one-half inch thick, 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 65 

cut into rounds, and bake in oven or on hot griddle. 
When done split open, spread with butter and serve on 
plate covered with doily, in the place of sandwiches for 
afternoon tea or at luncheon. 

DUTCH PUFFET (R. B. S.) 

One pint milk, one cup white sugar, three eggs, one- 
half cup yeast or one-half yeast cake, one cup butter 
(one teaspoon soda), flour enough to make a spoon stand 
up in it. Bake three quarters of an hour. Directions 
for mixing: If wanted for tea, make the puffet directly 
after dinner and let it rise until about five or until very 
light. Then add the soda and put mixture in two long 
tins, and let it stand half an hour before baking. Eat 
hot with butter. 

CHEESE STICKS OR STRAWS (" The Hostess of To-day ") 
One cup flour, with one teaspoon baking powder 
sifted in. Add one tablespoon melted butter, one-half 
cup grated cheese, dash of salt and cayenne, and only 
enough milk to make a stiff dough. Roll very thin, cut 
in narrow strips, roll in grated cheese, braid the strips 
together and bake on brown paper. 

Another. Use puff paste, roll thin; sprinkle w^th 
cheese and cayenne, cut into strips and bake brown. 

Another. Mix one-half cup grated cheese with one- 
half cup flour, one teaspoon butter, dash of salt and 
cayenne, enough cold water to make light paste. Roll 
very thin, cut into strips, brush with white of egg, and 
bake on paper in very hot oven. Serve any of these 
with salad or with afternoon tea. 



Chapter IV 
CAKE 



WASHINGTON CAKE (FamUy receipt, 1838) 

One and one-half pounds of fiour, one pound sugar, 
three-fourths pound butter, five eggs, one pint of milk, 
one teaspoon soda, one nutmeg, one teaspoon cinnamon 
or clove, one glass brandy, one pound or more of raisins. 

LOAF CAKE (Salisbury) 

One pint warm milk, one pound flour, one-half teacup 
yeast or one-half yeast cake. Let it rise. When light 
add one pound butter, one and one-fourth pounds sugar, 
four eggs, one glass brandy, one nutmeg, two teaspoons 
cinnamon; add another pound of flour. Mix well to- 
gether. Let it rise again. Then beat it a few minutes, 
add two pounds raisins and one-fourth pound citron. 
Put into tins and let stand one-half hour before baking. 
This makes four loaves. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE (i) (A great favorite) 

One-half cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, one- 
half cup cornstarch, one-half cup sweet milk, one and 
one-half cups flour, whites of six eggs, two small tea- 
spoons baking powder, one teaspoon extract of vanilla. 
Bake in jelly-cake pans. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 67 

ICING 

Whites of six eggs, eighteen tablespoons sifted sugar. 
To make it cocoanut cake, grate one nut the day before 
you want to use it and stir in with the icing. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE (2) 

One pound flour, one pound sugar, one-half pound 
butter, five eggs, one cup milk, one lemon, one small 
teaspoon soda. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE (3) 

One cup of flour, one-half cup of cornstarch, one cup 
of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of sweet 
milk, whites of six eggs, two teaspoons baking powder. 
Divide into three parts and bake in jelly-cake tins in 
twenty minutes with a moderate oven at first. 

FROSTING FOR THE ABOVE 

Take whites of three eggs; after beating light, add one 
dozen teaspoons of pulverized sugar to an egg. Grate 
rind of one lemon; remove the thick white covering 
and grate the pulp, adding also one -half of a grated 
cocoanut. Beat this well together. Place this mix- 
ture in a pail in a kettle of boiling water and let it cook 
twenty minutes, stirring it frequently. Spread it upon 
the layers of the cake while warm, covering loaf with the 
remainder of the cocoanut. For an extra thickness of 
frosting, add white of another egg and sugar in propor- 
tion, with a little more cocoanut. If the lemon is not 
acid and jaicy add a little more juice. 



68 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

CUP CAKE (i) (F. E. M.) 

Two cups white sugar, one cup butter, three -cups 
flour, five eggs, three -fourths cup sour milk in which 
dissolve small teaspoon soda; flavor with lemon. To 
make almond cake add one pound blanched almonds. 

CUP CAKE (2) (S. W. W.) 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, in 
which sift three teaspoons baking powder, four eggs, one 
cup milk (sweet), — if you have sour milk, omit baking 
powder and dissolve in it one teaspoon of soda, — one 
grated nutmeg. 

POUND CAKE (S. W. W.) 

One pound butter (or three-fourths pound butter and 
one-fourth pound lard is better), one pound sugar, one 
pound flour, ten small eggs, one grated nutmeg. Stir 
butter and sugar until it froths. Bake in patty -pans in 
moderate oven. Good for jelly cake, leaving out nut- 
meg and adding lemon. Good for fruit cake also. 

JELLY CAKE 

One pound flour, one pound sugar, one-half pound 
butter, the whole of six or whites of twelve eggs, rind of 
one lemon, one cup sweet milk, three teaspoons baking 
powder. 

DELICIOUS CAKE (E. S.) 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, four 
eggs beaten separately, one cup sweet milk, one-half 
cup wine and brandy mixed, with one small nutmeg 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 69 

grated in it, three small teaspoons baking powder sifted 
in the flour, one-half cup raisins chopped fine. 

SPONGE CAKE (i) (S. F.) 

Nine eggs that weigh a pound, one pound sugar, one- 
half pound flour, rind and juice of one lemon. Put in 
whites of eggs last. 

SPONGE CAKE (2) 

Two cups granulated sugar, four eggs dropped in and 
beaten thoroughly, one cup hot water, two cups sifted 
flour with three small teaspoons baking powder, rind and 
juice of one lemon. Moderate oven. This makes two 
tins of cake. 

QUEEN'S CAKE (H. S. G.) 

One pound flour, one pound sugar, three-fourths pound 
butter, six eggs, one-half cup sour cream (scant), one 
small teaspoon soda, one gill of wine, one gill of brandy, 
one nutmeg, one teaspoon cinnamon, one pound raisins. 

DELICATE CAKE 

One -half cup butter, one cup sugar, one cup flour 
warmed and sifted (measure before sifting), one table- 
spoon sweet cream, whites of five eggs, flavor to taste. 
One-half cocoanut makes delicious cocoanut cake. One 
loaf. 

BLACK CAKE (Wedding) 

One pound flour, one pound sugar, one pound butter, 
twelve eggs, four pounds raisins, two pounds currants, 
one pound citron, one gravy spoon cinnamon, one table- 



70 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

spoon mace, one teaspoon clove, four nutmegs, two wine- 
glasses brandy. Bake four hours. If thick, let stand 
in oven until morning. 

ORANGE CAKE (i) (S. W. W.) 
One pound granulated sugar, one-half pound butter, 
one pound flour, one cup sweet milk, two teaspoons 
baking powder sifted with the flour, six eggs beaten 
separately, one large fresh orange, rind and juice. Beat 
butter and sugar together thoroughly, add yolks of eggs, 
then the milk, then the orange, and lastly the flour and 
whites alternately. Bake in jelly cake tins, either three 
or four, and put together with stiff frosting flavored with 
orange. One-half of this receipt will make a good-sized 
loaf (two whites and four yolks). For the full measure 
(two loaves), use for frosting, whites of four eggs and 
rind and juice of one orange. Cover top and sides 
thickly. 

ORANGE CAKE (2) 

Two cups sugar, five eggs (five yolks and three whites), 
one-half cup of water, one teaspoon cream tartar and one- 
half teaspoon soda or one and one-half teaspoons baking 
powder, two cups flour, juice and grated rind of one 
orange. For frosting, the saved whites of two eggs, 
juice and grated rind of one orange, sugar enough to 
thicken. 

BREAD CAKE (i) (Buffalo) 

One heaping cup of butter, a little more than two cups 
of sugar (stir these together light and white) , one and one- 
half glasses wine, the same quantity of brandy, three 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 71 

eggs, one nutmeg and a little mace or cinnamon, four 
cups dough (very light), one cup seeded raisins, one-half 
teaspoon soda dissolved in a little milk. This cake 
should be stirred and allowed to rise in the pans after 
mixing, like loaf cake. Spice, soda, and fruit stirred in 
just before putting in tins for baking. Scrimp cups of 
dough, if you want it rich. 

BREAD CAKE (2) (J. L.) 

Three cups very light dough, two cups sugar, one cup 
butter (rather scant), three eggs, one-half cup milk or 
thin cream, two tablespoons brandy, one small teaspoon 
soda, one nutmeg, one pound or less of raisins (one cup 
will answer). Set to rise in the pans twenty minutes. 
Bake one hour. 

LOAF OR ELECTION CAKE * (i) 

Four pounds flour, one and three-fourths pounds but- 
ter or half butter and half lard, two pounds sugar, four 
eggs, one quart sweet milk warmed, one pint homemade 
yeast or two yeast cakes, one nutmeg, one tablespoon 
cinnamon, a little mace, one glass brandy, one pound 
raisins. Wet the flour with the milk and yeast at night. 
After rubbing the lard, butter, and sugar thoroughly, 
put in half of it and stir well together and keep it 
through the night in a warm place. When very light 
(which is usually early in the morning) add the other 
ingredients. The eggs should be well beaten and mixed 
thoroughly with the butter and sugar in the morning, 

* This receipt was used by a notable housekeeper, who brought it from 
Stockbridge, Mass., to the Genesee country in the early twenties. It is abso- 
lutely reliable. 



72 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

and made as warm as the dough, else it will check its 
rising. When all is well stirred together, put it in pans 
and let it rise until thoroughly light, and bake one hour. 
One-half this receipt is sufficient for a family of moder- 
ate size. 

ELECTION CAKE (2) (F. C. W.) 

Three cups milk, a little warm; two cups granulated 
sugar, one cup yeast or one yeast cake, flour enough to 
make a thick batter. Let it rise over night. In the 
morning, add to the dough: two cups sugar and two cups 
butter beaten separately to a cream, one pound stoned 
raisins, a little mace, two eggs well beaten; wineglass of 
brandy. Let it rise in the pans and bake one hour. 
This receipt makes three round loaves. 

CONNECTICUT ELECTION CAKE (3) (Hartford) 
Take two pounds flour, one pound sugar, fourteen 
ounces butter or half butter and half lard, one yeast 
cake. Rub butter and sugar together. Put all the flour 
in pan, add the yeast, and wet with a little more than one 
pint of warm milk ; add a little less than half the butter 
and sugar previously prepared. This cannot be kneaded 
like bread, but patted together as soft as pound cake. 
If you mix it in the morning, let it stand where it will be 
warm but not heated. By night it will be quite light ; 
add the rest of the sugar and butter, a little more than 
one -fourth ounce of mace or nutmeg if you prefer, a little 
more than one pound of raisins, one glass brandy, two 
eggs well beaten if you choose. This will make three 
loaves. Put in pans, let rise over night in warm place, 
and bake in morning. Be sure and let it rise well twice. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 73 

RAISED CAKE (i) 

One pint bowl of dough (when raised and ready to 
bake), four eggs beaten separately, one cup butter, two 
cups sugar, one nutmeg, one teaspoon cinnamon, one- 
half teaspoon soda, one pint bowl seeded raisins, one-half 
glass sherry. Mix by hand. Put dough in a large bowl. 
First work in the butter, then the sugar and spices, then 
the yolks of the eggs, next the whites, then the soda, 
which has been dissolved in a little warm water; lastly 
the raisins. Bake about as long as you would bread. 
This makes two loaves. 

RAISED CAKE (2) (C.) 

One pint milk, scalded and cooled a little; three cups 
flour, one-half a compressed yeast cake. Let it rise for 
two hours or more until very light. One cup butter, two 
cups sugar beaten separately to a cream, one cup raisins, 
two eggs, three teaspoons cinnamon, one teaspoon mace, 
a little nutmeg, one small half teaspoon soda dissolved 
in a little water. If the batter is not stiff enough, add 
more flour. Work all together very thoroughly with 
the hand. Let it rise in pans until very light. This will 
make two loaves. 

CAROLINA CAKE 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one-half cup sweet 
milk, four eggs beaten separately, three teaspoons even 
full of baking powder, one-half the grated rind of a lemon, 
one-half teaspoon mace. Beat butter and sugar to a 
cream, add yolks, then milk, then two cups flour in 
which the baking powder has been sifted, and whites of 



74 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

eggs, alternately. The lemon rind and mace may be 
put in with the butter and sugar. 

IMPERIAL CAKE 

One pound flour, one pound butter, one pound sugar, 
one pound raisins, one pound sweet almonds, three- 
fourths pound citron cut fine, ten eggs, wineglass of 
rose water, wineglass of brandy, teaspoon of mace. 

LADY CAKE (Always served on New Year's Day in old times) 

Blanch one-fourth pound shelled bitter almonds or 
two ounces of sweet and two ounces bitter almonds in 
the following manner: Put them into a bowl of boiling 
water and let them lie in it until the skin peels off easily, 
then throw them into the cold water. Pound them, a few 
at a time, in a mortar until very smooth, adding a few 
drops of sherry wine ; take three-fourths pound butter and 
one pound granulated sugar. Having stirred them to- 
gether to a cream, add almonds gradually, and yolks of 
eggs beaten ; three-fourths pound flour, nine eggs omitting 
the yolk of one. Stir flour and whites of eggs alternately 
into the mixture, a very little at a time of each. Bake 
in square tin pan. If in little tins, use two ounces less 
of flour. 

PLAIN FRUIT CAKE 

One pound brown sugar, ten ounces butter, one-half 
cup sweet milk, one pound flour, four or five eggs, two 
teaspoons baking powder sifted in flour, one nutmeg, 
and a little cinnamon or clove. One, two, or three pounds 
raisins chopped. Wineglass brandy improves it. Mod- 
erate oven. This makes two loaves. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 75 

SPICE CAKE 

One pound sugar, one-half pound butter, one pound 
flour, four eggs, one cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, 
one tablespoon cloves, one tablespoon cinnamon, one 
pound raisins, one-fourth pound citron, one glass of 
wine. 

MADEIRA NUT CAKE 

Two cups sugar, one and one -half cups butter, not 
quite half a cup sweet milk, whites of eight eggs, three 
and one-half cups flour, three teaspoons baking powder 
sifted through the flour, two teaspoons vanilla extract. 
Rub butter and sugar, then put in milk, then eggs, and 
last of all flour. Bake in flat, square tins, about twenty 
minutes in moderate oven. Put a little vanilla in frost- 
ing; mark it off in squares, putting a half nut in middle 
of each piece, and drop on it a little frosting. In this, 
as in all cakes that have baking powder, mix all ingre- 
dients thoroughly together, let them stand a few minutes 
to rise, while greasing tins, then stir all up very thor- 
oughly and pour out. 

LAYER CAKE 

Butter, size of a large egg, one cup sugar, two-thirds 
cup sweet milk, two and one-half cups flour, two tea- 
spoons baking powder, small pinch of salt, two eggs. 
Save out white of one egg and half the white of the other 
for icing. Stir butter and sugar together, drop in the 
two yolks and half white, and beat thoroughly; add 
milk, then flour and baking powder sifted together. 



76 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

You first measure the flour, add baking powder, and sift 
both together. Bake in two shallow pans. 

A good recipe for chocolate or any other layer cake. For spice cake, add 
to the above one-half teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves, allspice, and one 
quarter of a nutmeg. 

LEMON FILLING FOR THE ABOVE 

Two-thirds cup sugar, two level tablespoons corn- 
starch. Stir these together, add one Qgg and beat well, 
grated rind and juice of one lemon, one small cup hot 
water. Put all in saucepan over the fire and stir until 
thick. 

ICING FOR ABOVE 

Two-thirds cup sugar with a mite of water boiled 
until stringy. Stir into well-beaten white and one-half 
egg, with Dover egg beater. Extract, lemon. For 
chocolate icing, leave out lemon, add two squares choco- 
late and extract of vanilla after it is beaten smooth. 

COCOANUT CAKE (i) 

One pound of sugar, one-half pound butter, one pound 
flour, whites of twenty eggs, one tablespoon of wine or 
rose water, one large cocoanut grated, adding the milk. 

COCOANUT CAKE (2) 

Less than a cup of butter, two cups sugar, four cups 
flour, whites of eight eggs, one cup sweet milk, three 
teaspoons baking powder sifted in three cups of the 
flour, a grated cocoanut mixed with the fourth cup of 
flour. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 77 

COCOANUT DROPS 

Grate a cocoanut, add whites of four eggs (to a small 
nut or six to a large one), sugar to your taste, drop on 
white paper (previously wetted). Bake a light brown. 

COFFEE CAKE 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, three and one-half 
cups flour, one cup strong coffee, one cup syrup, one 
wineglass brandy, one teaspoon soda dissolved in warm 
water, one tablespoon cinnamon, one tablespoon cloves, 
one-half pound raisins, one-fourth pound currants, one- 
fourth pound citron. 

WHITE CAKE 

Ten ounces fresh butter, one pound sugar, one pound 
flour, whites of fifteen eggs ; flavor with almond or white 
wine. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE (i) 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three and one-half 
cups flour, one scant cup of milk, one and one-half tea- 
spoons baking powder, five eggs, leaving out two whites 
to be used for frosting. While hot, frost with the two 
whites, one-half cup sugar, six tablespoons of grated 
chocolate, two teaspoons of vanilla or lemon if you pre- 
fer. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE (2) (Puerto Rico) 

Mix together until smooth, one-half cake chocolate, 
one-half cup milk, one cup granulated sugar, yolk of one 
egg, teaspoon of vanilla. When cold mix with the fol- 
lowing cake: one cup sugar, three-fourths cup butter, 
one-half cup milk, two cups flour with three teaspoons 



78 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

baking powder sifted in, three eggs and the extra white. 
Bake in patty-pans in rather quick oven. 



SIMPLE CHOCOLATE CAKE (3) 

One cup sugar, one large tablespoon butter (cream 
well). Melt two squares chocolate in oven. Add it to 
butter and sugar creamed. Stir well: one cup milk, 
two scant cups flour in which are sifted two teaspoons 
baking powder. Add milk and flour alternately, one 
teaspoon vanilla; last thing add one egg beaten very 
light. Bake in two square loaves and put together with 
chocolate icing. 

CHOCOLATE PATTIES (J. B. M.) 

Heaping tablespoon of butter, one cup powdered sugar, 
one-half cup sweet milk, one (scant) cup of flour. Sift 
in with it one easy teaspoon baking powder, whites of 
two eggs beaten stiff, one teaspoon vanilla. Cream 
butter and sugar; alternate milk with flour and baking 
powder. Stir with firm, quick stroke. Add vanilla 
and fold in eggs. Bake ten minutes. 



BOILED ICING for above and also for " SIMPLE CHOCOLATE 

CAKE " 

One cup granulated sugar, one tablespoon boiling 
water. Shake well together. Boil hard until it threads 
from a spoon. Beat white of one egg, one square of 
Baker's chocolate ; put into egg. Pour the boiling sugar 
over the egg and chocolate and beat until it is smooth. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 79 

WHITE CAKE 

Two cups powdered sugar and one-half cup butter 
creamed, one cup sweet milk, three cups flour, two tea- 
spoons baking powder, flavor with almond and vanilla 
if you like, whites of six eggs. This may be baked in a 
loaf or in little square tins, and frosted. 

FROSTING 

One egg (the white), same quantity of water. Con- 
fectioner's sugar added slowly until the right consist- 
ency. This does not have to be cooked. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES (Flora) 

Two cups sugar, three-fourths cup butter, one-half 
cup milk, three or three and one-half cups flour, three 
teaspoons baking powder, five eggs, one teaspoon vanilla 
extract. Bake in dripping-pan for about twenty 
minutes. 

FROSTING 

Whites of three eggs, one-half cake Baker's chocolate, 
eight tablespoons sugar, one tablespoon cold water, two 
teaspoons extract of vanilla. 

LEBANON POUND CAKES 

Ten ounces sugar, ten ounces flour, eight ounces butter, 
five eggs, one wineglass sherry, one nutmeg. The nut- 
meg should first be grated into the flour; mix flour and 
butter together; beat yolks and sugar in another dish; 
beat whites of eggs very stiff and add them by degrees 
to the bowl in which are the yolks and sugar, alternating 



8o The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

with the butter and flour. Bake in patty-pans, add 
vanilla and a little rose water to the frosting for flavor- 
ing. 

NUT CAKE 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one -half cup milk, 
two cups pastry flour, two eggs, one coffee cup chopped 
raisins, one coffee cup chopped English walnuts, one 
teaspoon cream tarter, one-half teaspoon soda or one 
and one-half teaspoons baking powder. Beat butter to 
a cream, add sugar gradually, and, when light, the eggs 
well beaten, then the milk, and the flour in which the 
baking powder has been thoroughly mixed. Mix all 
quickly and add raisins and nuts. Bake in rather deep 
sheets in a moderate oven for thirty-five minutes. This 
quantity will make one large or two small sheets. 

CIDER CAKE (C. H. L.) 

One cup of butter, two cups sugar, one cup raisins, one 
cup currants, five eggs, one and one-half tumblers of 
cider, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cloves, one tea- 
spoon cinnamon, three cups flour. Rub butter and 
sugar together to a cream, then beat in eggs, add fruits; 
then the cider. Dissolve the soda in a little of the cider. 
Make pretty thick with flour. 

FRENCH LOAF CAKE 

One pound flour, three-fourths pound sugar, one-half 
pound butter; brandy, wine, and milk, one-half gill of 
each simmered together; cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon, 
and mace, one teaspoon soda, one pound seeded raisins, 
four eggs. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 8i 

SAXTON CAKE 

One-half pound butter, one pound sugar, creamed; 
one pound flour, yolks of four eggs and whites of five eggs, 
one pound raisins, one cup sour cream, spice to taste, 
one teaspoon soda, one wineglass wine. Add the cream 
with the soda dissolved in it the last thing. 

FRUIT CAKE — PLAIN 

One cup sugar, four tablespoons butter, one cup sour 
milk, one cup raisins, two cups flour, one teaspoon soda, 
spices to taste. 

DROP CAKE (Mrs. Miller) 

One pound flour, lacking three even tablespoons; one 
pound sugar, one-fourth pound butter, one-fourth pound 
currants, two gills sweet milk, two-thirds teaspoon 
soda and two teaspoons cream tartar, or one and one- 
half tablespoons baking powder, five eggs. Sift soda 
and cream tartar or baking powder through a fine wire- 
cloth sifter and mix thoroughly with the flour. Cream 
the butter and add the sugar with enough of the milk to 
make them mix easily. Add yolks of eggs and beat 
well. Then add, alternately, the milk, the beaten whites 
of the eggs, and the flour. Butter a dripping pan, drop 
the batter in separate spoonfuls, sprinkle a few currants 
over every one and bake a rich brown. The cakes run 
together and must be broken apart when taken from the 
oven. Cool them on a sieve. The batter for this cake 
will keep a week in a cold place. Flavor with nutmeg 
or cinnamon or anything else you prefer, and omit the 
currants if you choose = 



82 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

SUGAR COOKIES (M. W. P.) 

One cup sugar, one cup butter, three eggs, three tea- 
spoons baking powder, flour enough to roll out thin. 
Sprinkle sugar over the top of the cookies and bake in 
quick oven. A wineglass of sherry added is an improve- 
ment, in which case add one tablespoon more of butter. 

JUMBLES 

One cup sugar, one cup butter, one egg, a little nut- 
meg, as little flour as you can use and roll thin — very 
thin. Sprinkle fine sugar on top, as they are placed in 
oven. 

" EXCELLENT " COOKIES 

One quart molasses, two cups butter, one tablespoon 
soda. Boil all together a little, take off, and when cold, 
add enough flour to roll out very thin into cookies. 

CARDIMUM CAKE 

One pound flour, one pound sugar, three ounces butter, 
three eggs, one tablespoon ginger, one tablespoon cin- 
namon. Roll out thin and cut in squares and put 
blanched almonds on each corner. 

WALNUT WAFERS 

One-half pint walnuts taken from the shells, one- 
half pint brown sugar, two eggs, three even tablespoons 
flour, one-third teaspoon salt. Beat the eggs, add sugar, 
then flour and salt, and lastly the walnuts which have 
been chopped fine. Mix well and spread as thin as pos- 
sible with the back of a tablespoon in a buttered pan. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 83 

Place half walnuts at equal distances on the cake and 
bake in hot oven. Cut into squares before it is cold, but 
not immediately upon taking out of the oven. One and 
one-half pounds nuts will make this quantity. 

GINGER COOKIES 

Two cups molasses, handful brown sugar, one cup 
drippings of beef or pork or lard, one cup thick sour 
milk, two teaspoonfuls soda (rounding), one teaspoon 
ginger, a little salt. Mix with flour as soft as you can 
without sticking. One half of this receipt is enough at 
a time for small family. It is economical and good. 

GINGER-SNAPS 

One bowl molasses, one bowl sugar, one bowl butter, 
two eggs, one large tablespoon ginger, one large table- 
spoon soda dissolved in one-half cup hot water, a little 
clove, flour enough to roll very thin. 

GINGER-SNAPS (" Nantucket Receipts ") 

Two cups molasses, one cup butter, one tablespoon 
ginger, one teaspoon salt, two teaspoons soda. Mix 
these together, set them on the stove and let them boil 
up once. Then add sufficient flour to make it stiff 
enough to roll. Roll it out thin, cut into cakes and bake 
quickly. 

PEANUT COOKIES (" The Hostess of To-day ") 

Cream four tablespoons butter, add one-half cup gran- 
ulated sugar, two egg-yolks beaten thoroughly, four 
tablespoons milk, one-half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon 



84 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

lemon juice, one and one-half teaspoons baking powder 
sifted twice in one cup flour. Beat thoroughly. .Two 
cups chopped peanuts. Drop from spoon on buttered 
paper or tin. Place whole peanut in center of each. 
Bake twelve minutes in slow oven. 

MAPLE SUGAR FROSTING (" The Hostess of To-day ") 

One-half pound maple sugar, scraped; one-fourth cup 
boiling water. Melt and boil without stirring until it 
threads. Add slowly to one egg-white, beaten stiff, and 
beat all until thick enough to spread. 

FOR ICING 

White of one egg; one cup sugar; put this into pan 
with very little water and boil until it is stringy. Beat 
the egg about half with Dover beater, then add hot sugar 
gradually to egg, beating with Dover beater all the time 
until it becomes cold. Spread on cold cake and it will 
harden in a few minutes. 

CHOCOLATE ICING 

Two squares grated chocolate, five tablespoons pow- 
dered sugar, three tablespoons boiling water. Stir over 
moderate fire until smooth and glassy. 

KISSES 

The whites of four eggs beaten stiff, two cups of sugar. 
Shake powdered sugar over tin sheet, drop the mixture 
from tablespoon, and bake in a slow oven. 



Chapter V 
PRESERVED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 



RHUBARB JAM (M. J. S.) 

Four bunches rhubarb, three pounds granulated sugar, 
twelve peeled oranges. Take off every bit of white 
skin, remove all the seeds, then slice down each carpel 
and remove pulp, put it with the finely cut rhubarb 
and sugar, and stir gently until sugar is melted. Cook 
and stir constantly until redaced to a jam. About one 
hour fast cooking. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

One dozen oranges cut thin as possible and seeds 
taken out, five pints of water, six pounds sugar, juice 
of three lemons. Let the fruit stand over night, with 
the sugar and water. In the morning, boil until tender. 
The fruit must stand in porcelain. Let it cook for the 
first hour on back part of the stove; then set it forward 
and boil hard, until done. If boiled too long it becomes 
dark. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI 

One pint brandy or rum, one pound fruit, one pound 
sugar. Stir three times the first day it is made and 
then let it stand. Add one pound of any other fruit 
and one pound sugar, as often as you please. Stir as 



86 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

above, but do not add more spirits. Make in stone 
crock. Avoid the small, seedy fruits. 

PRESERVED PINEAPPLE (i) 

Pare the pines, carefully removing the eyes. Pick 
with a fork in small pieces. Add three-quarters pound 
sugar to one pound of fruit. Spread fruit on platters, 
covering it with the sugar and let stand over night. 
In the morning set it in the sun and let it remain all 
day; then put in jars and seal it up tight. That night 
or the next morning, put in boiler of cold water nearly 
up to the neck and let boil five minutes and take out 
without loosening cover. Other fruits may be served 
in the same way. 

PRESERVED PINEAPPLE (2) (H. S. G.) 

Take the ' ' pines ' ' in June , as they are riper and cheaper 
than at any other season. After paring the fruit, 
weigh it and allow a pound of granulated sugar to a 
pound of the pineapple. Grate the fruit on a coarse 
grater, throwing away the cores. V^hen all grated put 
it in a preserving kettle and let it gently simmer for 
half an hour, keeping it covered as much as possible to 
preserve the flavor. In the meantime, warm the sugar 
and when the fruit is transparent (for which the half 
hour is usually sufficient) stir in the sugar, and let all 
simmer together from ten to twenty minutes. Previous 
to this, have the glass jars filled with hot water, then 
when the preserve is done, empty out water and put in 
the preserve hot, screw top down tightly and the thing 
is done. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 87 

PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES 

Take twelve boxes of the Willson berries; after hull- 
ing, throw out the small berries (wiiich will do for jam) 
and put the large ones in a kettle, with the sugar, pound 
for pound. Set kettle on back of stove and let fruit 
slowly come to a boil. Then skim out the berries on to 
platters, boil down and skim syrup and pour over them 
and stand in the sun for two days. Put into jars cold 
and seal, having first spread tissue paper wet with brandy 
over the tOjj. 

STRAWBERRY JAM 

Weigh one pound of white sugar to each pound of the 
fruit. Cover berries thoroughly with the sugar and let 
stand over night. In the morning, throw all into the 
preserving kettle and boil until thoroughly cooked, 
about one hour. Put into jars or tumblers cold. 

RED CURRANT JELLY (i) (S. D. P.) 
Take out leaves and put currants into a kettle over 
the fire. Let them warm through and take a potato 
masher and jam them thoroughly, breaking all the skins. 
Then put into a linen bag and let drain; do not squeeze. 
Measure the juice and to every pint weigh out one pound 
granulated sugar. Put juice in the kettle and boil 
fifteen or twenty minutes. Then throw in the sugar, 
boil five minutes and pour into glasses. Use the earliest 
fruit you can get. 

RED CURRANT JELLY (2) 

Stem the currants, wilt them in a kettle and squeeze 
through sleazy linen or crash bag. Then put through 



88 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

cheese cloth and flannel bags, let drain, do not squeeze, 
until perfectly clear. When the juice is prepared,, put 
in kettle, adding your sugar at the same time, pound 
for pint. Stir until dissolved, and when it begins to 
boil do not touch it again with your spoon. Let boil 
by the watch four minutes exactly. In three and one- 
half minutes turn off the gas (if you are using a gas 
stove), but do not touch the liquid until after the four 
minutes, when skim and turn into glasses. Boil slowly. 

BLACK CURRANT JELLY 
(From Miss Leslie's " Complete Cookery '') 

Take large, ripe, black currants, strip them from the 
stalks and mash them with the back of a ladle. Put 
them into a preserving kettle, with a tumbler of water 
to each quart of currants. Cover it closely, set it over 
a moderate fire, and when the currants have come to 
a boil, take them out and squeeze them through a jelly- 
bag. To each pint of juice allow a pound of granulated 
sugar, and (having washed the preserving kettle perfectly 
clean) put in the sugar with the juice. Stir them together 
till well mixed and dissolved, and then boil not longer 
than ten minutes, as the juice of black currants, being 
very thick, will come to a jelly very soon, and if boiled 
too long it will be tough and ropy. 

CHERRY COMPOTE 

Three pounds sour cherries, four pounds sugar, two 
pounds seeded raisins, four oranges. Chop oranges 
fine; steam raisins twenty minutes; chop rather coarse, 
add cherries, oranges, and sugar. Boil twenty minutes 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 89 

and put in tumblers, like jelly. Weigh cherries after 
pitting and use oranges at discretion. I sometimes use 
the pulp of four and skin of one. 

SPICED CURRANTS (i) 

Seven pounds currants, four pounds sugar, one pint 
vinegar, two pounds seeded raisins, one ounce cinna- 
mon stick, one-half ounce whole cloves, tied in a bag. 
Boil all together for two or three hours to a thick jam. 

SPICED CURRANTS (2) 

Five pounds currants, three pounds sugar, one-half 
pint vinegar, one ounce stick cinnamon, one-half ounce 
whole clove, tablespoon each of whole allspice and 
mace. Tie spices in bags and boil with currants and 
sugar to a thick jam two or three hours. Add vinegar 
when nearly done. 

RASPBERRY JAM 

The fruit must be quite ripe and dry. As soon as 
possible, strew fine sugar over the berries; it preserves 
the flavor and color. Put them in an earthen jar or 
bowl with an equal weight of white sugar and one half 
the weight of currant juice. Put in as much of the 
pulp of the currants as you can press through a sieve. 
Mash fruit, juice, and sugar together with your hand, 
then put them in a preserving kettle, over a clear, slow 
fire, stirring them all the time. Skim them when they 
boil and after boil them twenty minutes. Try them on 
a plate; if they jelly, they are quite done. If you prefer 



90 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

it without the currants, put three-quarters pound of 
sugar to one pound of raspberries and make as above. 

FOR CANNING FRUIT 

Ten pounds sugar, three quarts cold water. Boil 
exactly fifteen minutes by the clock. Take it off and 
let stand over night, or until cold. Put your fruit into 
the jars and pack it down. Fill the jars full to over- 
flowing of syrup, put them in a boiler of cold water and 
hoil twenty minutes. This is good for peaches, plums, 
cherries, etc. 

PEACH MARMALADE 

Take ripe early Crawford peaches, pare, stone, and 
quarter them. To each pound of peaches allow three- 
quarters pound of granulated sugar and one-half ounce 
bitter almonds or peach kernels blanched in scalding 
water and pounded smooth in a mortar. Scald the 
peaches in their own juice, — or, if dry, in a very little 
water, — mash them to a pulp, mix with them the sugar 
and pounded almonds in a preserving kettle, and boil 
to a smooth, thick jam, skimming and stirring it well, 
and keeping it covered as much as possible. Thirty 
or forty minutes will generally suffice for boiling. When 
cold, put in glass jars. Plum marmalade may be made 
in the same way, flavoring with pounded plum kernels. 

BRANDY PEACHES (S. D. P.) 

Six pounds granulated sugar, six pounds fruit, one 
and one-half pints white French brandy or lightest 
colored whiskey. Use early Crawfords, ripe, but hard 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 91 

and firm. Pare the fruit smoothly, make the syrup with 
as little water as possible and cook, not thoroughly, a 
few peaches at a time in it. Have your brandy in a 
crock and drop peaches in the clear brandy as fast as 
they are cooked, until the six pounds are finished. Then 
skim the syrup and pour gently over the peaches that 
are in the brandy. Lift the peaches carefully into glass 
jars, stir the syrup thoroughly from the bottom, fill the 
jars and screw tightly. 

SYRUP FOR PRESERVES 

Allow one-half pint water to one pound sugar; stir it 
until the sugar is entirely melted. As soon as the sugar 
first boils up, pour in a little cold water, and when it 
boils a second time take it off the fire. Let it settle ten 
minutes, carefully skim it and then boil it half an hour. 
If you allow a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit you 
will have no further trouble with preserves. 

CHIPPED PEAR 

Use Virgouleuse or any other fine-grained hard pear. 
Eight pounds fruit, pared and sliced very thin, eight 
pounds granulated sugar, one-quarter pound Canton 
ginger (preserved in syrup), three lemons. Cut the 
rind of the lemons without any of the white part, drop 
the bits into a little sugar, add the juice of the lemons 
and the ginger sliced or cut into small pieces. Dissolve 
sugar in one pint water, add lemon and ginger and then 
the fruit, and boil all slowly for three hours until the 
syrup is rich and thick. 



92 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

QUINCE PRESERVE 

Wash, wipe, pare, and core yellow quinces. * Boil 
them tender and drain on a sieve. Boil the cores and 
parings in a little water in a stewpan, to extract the 
quince flavor, and the glutinous matter around the 
seeds. Strain this water and add it to the water in 
which the quinces were boiled. Add sugar in the pro- 
portion of a pound to a pint of the liquor. Boil and 
skim this syrup, then put in the quinces and boil until 
they are tender and clear. 

QUINCE MARMALADE (i) 

Examine the fruit carefully and cut out any decayed 
or wormy spot. Pare the quinces, quarter them and 
take out the core. Boil parings and cores, in enough 
water to cover them, until they are tender. Strain out 
the liquid and put into the kettle. Add to it the quinces 
and boil gently until tender, but not too soft. Then 
take them out with a skimmer and lay on a platter. 
Cut them in strips and put into the liquid, and to each 
pint put one pound of sugar. If you prefer, chip the 
quinces very thin before putting them into the kettle. 
Cook them one hour, or until they are thick and a nice 
amber color. 

QUINCE JELLY (J. M. G.) 

Pare the quinces and quarter them; put them in 
kettle and barely cover them with water. Boil until 
very tender, all to pieces! Take a crock, tie cheese 
cloth over the top of it, pour the quince in and let drain 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 93 

all night. In the morning measure the liquid, put it 
over the fire and let it come to a boil. Add sugar, 
pound to pint, and boil from fifteen to twenty minutes. 

QUINCE MARMALADE (2) 

Save parings and cores of the jelly quinces, cover with 
water, boil until tender and strain. Add this liquid to 
the quince from which the juice has drained. Measure, 
and to each pound put three quarters of a pound of 
sugar. Boil for half or three quarters of an hour, and 
put into glass jars. This is nearly as good as the regular 
(No. i) marmalade. 

GRAPE MARMALADE 

Ten pounds grapes (Isabella), six pounds granulated 
sugar, one and one-half pounds raisins after stoning, 
two large orangess Heed thin, — including the rind, — two 
teaspoons cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves. First pulp 
the grapes, cook, and strain to remove seeds. Add 
skins and cook until tender. Then add sugar, raisins, 
etc., and cook until it forms a soft jam. Omit the 
spices if you prefer. This receipt fills eight pint jars. 

GRAPE JELLY 

Use Concord grapes; pick them from the stem and 
boil a good while in a porcelain kettle. Strain through 
cheese cloth. Boil the juice twenty minutes, then add 
sugar, less than a pound to a pint. If you have nine 
pints of juice, put in eight pounds sugar, or perhaps 
leave out two ounces of sugar from every pound. 



94 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

WILD GRAPE JELLY (F. L. A.) 

Crush the fruit; put on stove until it begins to simmer, 
then boil hard for twenty minutes. Take it off and 
strain it. To a pint of juice put a pound of sugar. 
Put over the fire the strained juice before adding sugar, 
and boil twenty minutes. Warm sugar in oven, add it 
to juice and boil three minutes. 

QUINCE AND APPLE JELLY 

Use one part quince to two parts fine tart apples 
(fall pippins). After weighing, boil the quince and 
apple separately. Cut the quinces into very thin slices 
so that they will cook more quickly, boil and strain and 
add to it the liquid from the cooked apples. To every 
pint of juice allow three quarters of a pound of granu- 
lated sugar. Boil the juice twenty minutes, add sugar, 
and let it come to a boil. If it should not stiffen at 
once do not be discouraged. After it has stood a week 
it will be stiff enough. 

APPLE AND QUINCE 

Take fifteen quinces and fifteen sweet apples. Pare 
them; boil all the skins together until perfectly tender; 
strain them and put liquid back in the kettle. Cut 
your fruit into quarters or eighths (remove the cores), 
and throw it into the kettle with two pounds of light 
yellow sugar (a little more if white sugar is used), and 
cook until perfectly tender. Serve cold. This is for 
present use. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 95 

PRUNE PLUMS 

Five pounds plums: Take out pits and cut till rather 
small; put in kettle and boil. Seed two pounds raisins 
and add to plums, and boil until the water is boiled out 
of them and they are dry as can be without burning. 
Then add three pounds sugar, the juice of three lemons, 
having first grated the peel. Mix this peel with a little 
dry sugar and add it the very last thing. 

PLUM BUTTER 

Remove the skins and pits of the Lombard plums; 
put them in kettle with the sugar — three quarters 
of a pound sugar to one pound fruit — and boil until a 
thick, rich jam, adding a little powdered cinnamon. 

TO PRESERVE DAMSON PLUMS 

Three-quarters pound brown sugar to every pound 
of the fruit. Put in a porcelain kettle a layer of plums 
and then of sugar until the kettle is full, and set it in 
the oven, not very hot. They will stew gradually, and 
when done, take out the plums with a skimmer and lay 
them into a crock or jars. Scald the syrup and pour 
hot over the plums and they are done. 

QUINCE AND ORANGE MARMALADE 

One and one-half dozen quinces, one-half dozen 
oranges, sugar, pound for pound. Slice quinces very 
thin, slice oranges very thin, peel and all. Cook quinces 
a few minutes in boiling water, add sugar and oranges; 
boil until tender and smooth. 



Chapter VI 
PICKLES, LOTIONS, MISCELLANEOUS 



PINEAPPLE PICKLE 

Twelve pineapples, or seven pounds of fruit, three 
pounds sugar, one quart vinegar, one scant ounce of 
stick cinnamon, one scant ounce of whole cloves. Pare 
the fruit and cut into thick slices. Put vinegar, fruit, 
spices, and sugar into a kettle (after tying spices in a 
bag) ; cook fruit until tender. Remove it into jars, boil 
the syrup down a little thicker and pour over the fruit. 

PICKLED PEACHES (Ancient, delicious) 

Ten pounds fruit, five pounds sugar, one pint vinegar, 
cinnamon and cloves to taste. Rub the down from the 
peaches and stick two or three cloves in each one. After 
the vinegar and sugar have come to a boil, add a couple 
of ounces of stick cinnamon and drop in the peaches, a 
few at a time, and cook thoroughly, laying them in a 
crock or jar as fast as they are done. Then boil the 
syrup, skim, and pour over the peaches. Pare the fruit 
if you choose. 

SPICED PLUMS 

Eight pounds plums, four pounds sugar, one teaspoon 
cloves, two teaspoons cinnamon, one teacup vinegar. 
Cook all together until as thick as jelly. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 97 

PICKLED PEPPERS 

Cut the peppers below the stem, leaving a hinge 
about an inch long; remove the seeds, and put the 
peppers into a strong brine, and let them stand twenty- 
four hours; chop cabbage fine, adding one good-sized 
onion to a three-gallon crock. Mix in white and black 
mustard seed and celery seed. Fill the peppers and 
sew down the top. Place these in a crock, and pour 
over them scalded vinegar to which has been added a 
bowlful of brown sugar and handful of whole cloves. I 
make twenty peppers at a time. 

PICKLED PLUMS (i) 

Seven pounds fruit, five pounds sugar, one pint vine- 
gar, one ounce each of stick cinnamon and whole cloves. 
Boil sugar, vinegar, and spices together and pour boiling 
hot over the plums, having first pricked them with a 
sharp fork. Do this for two mornings, and on the third 
morning, after the vinegar comes to a boil, lay the 
plums in it and let all boil up until they are cooked 
through. Then put in crock or jars and cover closely. 

PICKLED PLUMS (2) 

Ten pounds plums, four pounds sugar, one quart 
vinegar, cloves and cinnamon. Scald the plums slowly 
in this syrup until struck through. Then lay in a crock 
and pour over them the boiling hot syrup. 

PICKLED CUCUMBERS 

Choose small cucumbers, about two inches long, that 
have been cut, not torn, from the vines. Put five hun- 



98 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

dred in a stone jar. Pour boiling water over them, with 
one-half pint salt to a gallon of water. Do this three 
times, and each time, as soon as the water cools, put on 
more. After the third time, drain off the water and 
pour half water and half vinegar hot over them. When 
this cools, pour it off. Put enough vinegar to cover 
the pickles (about one gallon) into a kettle, add six 
large onions and four peppers sliced, one-half pint 
ground mustard, one ounce ginger root, one-half ounce 
each of mustard-seed, celery seed, stick cinnamon, whole 
cloves, allspice, and turmeric; small piece of alum, 
two pounds brown sugar. Let come to boil and pour 
hot over the pickles and cover closely. After about two 
weeks, stir from the bottom thoroughly, and add two 
pounds more of sugar. 

MIXED PICKLE 

One peck green tomatoes or cucumbers, one-half peck 
ripe tomatoes, one dozen large onions, one quarter of a 
cabbage. Chop all fine, sprinkle one cup salt over them 
and mix thoroughly. Let stand over night. In the 
morning squeeze out the water and boil mixture with 
one gallon vinegar for two hours briskly. Then add one 
dozen red peppers chopped very fine, one cup grated 
horse-radish, two tablespoons celery seed, one tablespoon 
each of ground black pepper, ginger, mace, cloves, 
allspice, and mustard, and two pounds granulated sugar. 
Boil fifteen minutes and bottle. This is good, but 
troublesome to make. The receipt fills about one dozen 
pint jars, and will keep for years. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 99 

MUSTARD PICKLE 

One quart large green cucumbers, cut in thin slices 
without peeling. Soak in salt and water over night. 
One pint small onions, one large cauliflower, three green 
peppers, one quart green tomatoes cut in slices. Cauli- 
flower, onions, peppers, and tomatoes scalded in hot salt 
and water. Put all in a jar, turn over them hot vinegar 
and let stand several days. Then drain off vinegar. 
Make a paste of half a box of mustard, one quart fresh 
vinegar, and two cups sugar. Bring it to a boil and pour 
it over the pickles. 

RIPE CUCUMBER PICKLE 

Prepare one dozen ripe cucumbers by taking off the 
rind, removing the seeds, and cutting them in strips 
or any other shape you choose; put them in a jar and 
cover with vinegar and let them stand twenty-four 
hours. Then pour off the vinegar, measure it carefully 
and throw it away. Take the same quantity of fresh 
vinegar, add two pounds brown sugar and one ounce 
cassia buds to each quart, and boil the cucumbers in it 
till they are clear. 

CELERY SAUCE 

Thirty large ripe tomatoes, four large heads of celery, 
four onions, three large red peppers, one quart good cider 
vinegar, fifteen tablespoons sugar, and four tablespoons 
salt. Chop very fine the celery, onions, and peppers; 
cut the tomatoes into small pieces, then mix all together 
and cook for two hours. Put while hot into bottles or 
glass jars. 



loo The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

TOMATO CATSUP (i) 

For four quarts of catsup, use one peck of firm; ripe 
tomatoes, heaped measure. Wash and quarter them, 
then put them into the preserving kettle with one very 
large onion or two medium -sized ones; add one large 
green pepper (or two peppers if you like a '^ hot " cat- 
sup), rejecting the seeds. Cook slowly one hour, being 
careful not to burn. Rub the mass through a sieve and 
return it to the kettle. Add one and one-half cups 
strong cider vinegar, one cup sugar, three tablespoons 
salt, rounded measure, two tablespoons white mustard 
seed, one tablespoon each of whole cloves and black 
pepper tied in cheese-cloth bag, two sticks cinnamon. 
Cook slowly but steadily for three hours, stirring fre- 
quently. Remove the spices, but do not strain, as the 
mustard seed is a desirable addition. Seal while boiling 
hot, either in self-sealing jars or in wide-mouthed bottles. 
This receipt has been in family use for three generations, 
and will prove delicious. 

TOMATO CATSUP (2) 

One gallon tomato after it is strained through a col- 
ander, one pint small onions chopped fine, one and one- 
half pints vinegar, one gill salt, one tablespoon ground 
cloves, three tablespoons ground cinnamon, one table- 
spoon ground mustard, one tablespoon cayenne pepper, 
one tablespoon mace, one grated nutmeg, three table- 
spoons brown sugar. Boil three hours and bottle while 
hot. One peck of tomatoes will make one gallon of 
juice. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book loi 

CHOWCHOW 

Five hundred very small cucumbers, one hundred 
small onions. Pour hot brine over the cucumbers three 
days in succession, and once over the onions. Put them 
together, cover with half vinegar and water, hot, and 
let stand over night ; mix one-half pound white mustard 
seed, one ounce celery seed, one ounce turmeric, one-half 
pint grated horse-radish, one-quarter cup black pepper, 
one teaspoon cayenne pepper, one-quarter pound pow- 
dered cinnamon. Boil all in one gallon vinegar and 
two pounds brown sugar, and pour over the pickles. 
When cold prepare a dressing of two tablespoons dry 
mustard and four or five tablespoons olive oil and add 
to the mixture. 

SPICED GRAPES 

Use Concord or Isabella grapes. To seven pounds 
grapes use three and one -half pounds granulated sugar, 
one gill vinegar, two heaping tablespoons whole allspice, 
one and one-half tablespoons stick cinnamon, one heap- 
ing tablespoon whole cloves. Pinch the pulps out from 
the skins. Throw them into a kettle and scald. Rub 
them through a coarse sieve to remove seeds; then put 
them into a kettle with the sugar and vinegar, and spices 
tied in a cheese-cloth bag. When all are hot, add skins. 
Let the whole boil for about twenty minutes, or longer, 
if the skins are not yet tender. Fill jars and close while 
hot. This receipt will fill four pint jars. Use the above 
quantity of ground spices if preferred. 



I02 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

OIL PICKLE 

One dozen large cucumbers sliced thin, one-half 
dozen small onions sliced thin. Sprinkle with salt and 
let stand three hours. Drain and add one quart vinegar, 
two-thirds cup olive oil, one-half cup each of white 
mustard seed and black mustard seed, and one tablespoon 
celery seed. 

CHILI SAUCE 

One peck ripe tomatoes, six large green peppers, six 
large onions, two teaspoons ground allspice, two tea- 
spoons ground cinnamon. Scald and skin the tomatoes 
as for stewing, chop onions and peppers fine. Boil all 
together slowly for three or four hours, after adding two 
cups brown sugar, five cups vinegar, a handful of salt. 
Seal tightly while hot in bottles or glass jars. 

OIL CUCUMBERS 

One hundred medium-sized cucumbers sliced thin. 
Layer of cucumbers and layer of salt. Let stand for 
twenty -four hours; drain thoroughly; then mix with 
three pints small white onions sliced, one-half cup white 
pepper or two dozen red Chili peppers, one-quarter cup 
mustard seed, one-eighth cup celery seed, two cups olive 
oil, about a pint of vinegar, with a small lump of alum. 

GREEN TOMATO OR FRENCH PICKLE 

One peck green tomatoes sliced thin, six large onions 
sliced, one cup salt thrown on them. Let them stand 
over night and drain off water in the morning ; then boil 
tomatoes and onions in two quarts water and one quart 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 103 

vinegar fifteen or twenty minutes. After boiling put 
into a colander and drain. Prepare seven pints vine- 
gar, two pounds brown sugar, one-half pound white 
mustard seed, two tablespoons each of ground allspice, 
clove, ginger, cinnamon, and mustard; one-half table- 
spoon cayenne pepper. Put all in a kettle and cook 
twenty minutes and be very careful about burning. 

RIPE TOMATO PICKLE 

Cut tomatoes in half and cover with salt, allowing 
one pint salt to one peck tomatoes. After twenty-four 
hours drain them carefully. Prepare spices in follow- 
ing proportions: Two tablespoons ground cinnamon, 
one tablespoon each ground ginger, mustard, and allspice ; 
one-half tablespoon clove, one-half tablespoon mace. 
Have ready ten large onions sliced and two green peppers 
chopped fine. Put layer of tomatoes in jar with rings 
of onion and a little chopped pepper; sprinkle over the 
spices mixed in a sieve and throw in a handful of com- 
mon brown sugar. Continue this until the jar is filled; 
lay a plate over them, with a weight to press them down, 
and cover with cold vinegar, pouring it in carefully at 

the side. 

GINGER CORDIAL 

Pick over carefully four quarts of ripe red currants, 
and put them in one gallon of Bourbon whiskey. Add 
rind and juice of two lemons, eight ounces white ginger- 
root, two ounces bitter almonds. Let it stand twelve 
days; make a syrup of four pounds sugar, and strain 
this into it. Cork tight in bottles. It will keep for 
years. 



I04 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

BLACKBERRY SYRUP 

To one quart of blackberry juice, put one tablespoon 
each of ground cloves, cinnamon and allspice, and three 
pounds sugar. Boil fifteen minutes. When cool, add 
small teacup of brandy. 

ROOT BEER (Mrs. L. A.) 

Take one pound sarsaparilla root, one-half pound 
sassafras, one dozen bunches wintergreen leaves. Use 
one third of this at a time. Put in a kettle with two 
gallons of cold water, boil half an hour. Let it strain 
through cheese cloth. Put the leaves, with big handful 
of hops added, over, with two gallons more of water; 
boil one hour. Strain and put with the liquid two 
bowls brown sugar, one pint molasses, and two cents' 
worth brewer's yeast, while it is warm. Let it stand over 
night and bottle in the morning. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR 

Three quarts fresh raspberries, one quart good cider 
vinegar. Let stand twenty-four hours ; pour off vinegar 
and throw into it three quarts of fresh berries. After 
twenty -four hours, strain it and add three quarts more 
of berries. After twenty-four hours strain carefully, 
and measure; add one pound sugar to each pint of 
liquid. Boil fifteen minutes and bottle. 

MEAT JELLY FOR INVALIDS 

Part of a shank of beef, a knuckle of veal. Wash, 
cover with water; simmer on the back of the stove half 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 105 

a day. Skim off the grease and strain. Salt. If wine is 
used, no salt. 

MOLASSES CANDY (i) 

One quart molasses, piece of butter size of an egg. 
Boil over a brisk fire until it will harden when dropped 
into cold water. Add one teaspoon bicarbonate of 
soda to make it white and brittle, and, when almost 
done, one teaspoon essence of peppermint or winter- 
green. To be pulled while warm, with buttered hands, 
and cut in sticks. 

MOLASSES CANDY (2) 
Take one cup molasses, two cups brown sugar, one 
tablespoon vinegar, one-half cup water. Boil all to- 
gether until nearly done. Then dissolve one-half tea- 
spoon soda in a little hot water and add it to the candy. 
Boil it until by dropping a few drops into cold water it 
becomes brittle. This, when pulled well, glistens like 
gold. Rub butter on your hands before pulling it, and 
put a little on the tins to keep it from sticking. 

MOLASSES PEANUT CANDY 

Two cups molasses, one cup brown sugar, one table- 
spoon butter, one tablespoon vinegar. While the candy 
is boiling, remove the shells and brown skins from the 
peanuts, lay the nuts in buttered pans, and when the 
candy is done pour it over them. While it is still warm 
cut in blocks. 

PEANUT CANDY 

One quart peanuts, blanch and chop very fine. Put 
one pound pulverized sugar in a saucepan over a hot 



io6 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

fire; stir every minute and as soon as the lumps are 
smoothed out, take it off the fire, throw in the peanuts, 
stir up quickly and pour into a shallow, greased pan. 

CHOCOLATE CANDY (Fudge) 

Three cups sugar, one cup milk, three-quarters cake 
Baker's cooking chocolate, one-half cup butter. Flavor 
with vanilla and add, if you like, nuts, preserved ginger, 
or figs. The nuts and preserved ginger cut in small 
pieces are very good together. Stir the candy all the 
time (it bums easily), and cook it until it is on the point 
of turning to sugar. 

FUDGE 

Two cups sugar, one -half cup milk or cream, small 
piece of butter, teaspoon of vanilla, three squares Baker's 
chocolate. Boil twelve to fourteen minutes. Take off 
and beat up hard, until thick, then pour into pans. 

PRALINES 

Put one cup maple sugar in just enough water to 
dissolve it. Boil ten minutes. Take it from the stove 
and stir into it walnut or butternut meats. 

NUT CANDY 

Boil two pounds brown or maple sugar, one-half pint 
water, and one gill molasses, until it hardens on ice. 
Have meats taken from shell in as large pieces as possi- 
ble. Spread them on plates and pour the candy over 
them to cool. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 107 

SHAKER CANDY 

Melt maple sugar; dip into it large butternut meats 
and let them dry. 



POTPOURRI 

One-half peck rose leaves ; place in a deep bowl in thin 
layers, with a handful of salt sprinkled on each layer. 
Let it remain five days, turning twice a day. This should 
appear moist. Add three ounces of bruised allspice 
and one ounce of bruised stick cinnamon. This forms 
the stock; allow it to remain a week, turning daily from 
bottom to top. Then put into the permanent jar, one 
ounce of allspice, adding the stock layer by layer. 
Sprinkle between the layers the following mixture: 
One ounce cloves, one ounce cinnamon, two nutmegs 
(all coarsely powdered), two ounces ginger root sliced 
thin, one-half ounce anise seed bruised, ten grains 
finest musk, two ounces sliced orris root, one-half pound 
dried lavender flowers. Then add the following essential 
oils at pleasure, some prefer one, some another: Lemon 
verbena, geranium, jessamine, or any cologne waters; 
orange and lemon peel, and any freshly-dried flowers that 
are fragrant. Shake and stir the jar once or twice a 
week; open only during the daily odorizing. 

CAMPHOR ICE (Very good) 

Six drams pulverized camphor gum, one ounce 
spermaceti, one-half ounce white wax, four tablespoons 
almond oil. Let all melt slowly together; pour into small 
wide -mouthed jars. 



io8 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

FURNITURE POLISH 

One-half ounce gum shellac, and one-half ounce. resin, 
dissolved in one-half pint alcohol. Add three-quarters 
pint linseed oil, one-half pint spirits of turpentine, and 
one teaspoon of aniline brown. (The latter is not neces- 
sary unless your wood is light, as black walnut some- 
times is, and you wish to darken it.) For all polished 
furniture it is quite wonderful; removes scratches, white 
spots, etc. Before using, shake the bottle well, apply 
vigorously with a flannel or canton flannel cloth, and 
rub dry with another. You have to buy the aniline 
powder and dissolve it. This is an excellent preparation. 

JAPANESE CREAM 

One-half pound castile soap (white), one gallon soft 
water. Let it dissolve, but do not let it boil. Add the 
following ingredients and bottle immediately : One ounce 
powdered borax, one ounce alcohol, one ounce ether, 
one-half pound ammonia. Put in half -pint bottles. 

LOTION FOR CHAPPED HANDS 

One-half pint rose water, one ounce pure glycerine, 
six drams pure brandy, twelve grains borax. Put 
together cold and shake. 

COLD CREAM 

One ounce white wax, one ounce spermaceti, one ounce 
mutton tallow (free from kidney-fat), two ounces sweet 
almond oil, two ounces glycerine, twelve drops attar 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 109 

of roses. Melt all slowly together in an earthen vessel. 
Potir into a bowl or soup plate and beat with a silver 
fork until perfectly white and light ; then while it is still 
warm, put in small earthen pots and cover. 

FRENCH RECEIPT FOR POMADE 

Piece of white beeswax size of an egg, two ounces 
sweet oil, one ounce castor oil, one ounce sweet almond 
oil. Simmer slowly together and beat until cold. 

ANOTHER POMADE 

Cut up beef's marrow into small pieces and boil in 
water ; when cold, skim it from the top, and add one-third 
the quantity of castor oil. Beat the whole together 
very thoroughly. Perfume with anything, — brandy if 
you choose. 

MOTH AND VERMIN EXTERMINATOR 

One ounce corrosive sublimate, one ounce camphor, 
one ounce turpentine, and a little oil of cedar, in one- 
half pint alcohol. 

GOOD PASTE 

Dissolve a piece of alum the size of a walnut in a pint 
of boiling water. To this add two tablespoons of flour 
made smooth in a little cold water and a few drops of 
oil of cloves, letting the whole come to a boil. This 
paste will keep for months. Put in glass jars and use 
with a half -inch bristle brush. 



no The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

A RECEIPT FOR SOAP BUBBLES 

(From an article in " St. Nicholas," written by Jacob F. Bucher) 

To prepare the mixture, put into a pint bottle two 
ounces of best white castile soap cut into thin shavings, 
and fill the bottle with cold water which has been first 
boiled and then left to cool. Shake well together and 
allow the bottle to stand until the upper part of the 
solution is clear. Decant now of this clear solution two 
parts, and add one part of glycerine; shake well, and it 
is ready for use. Use a new ordinary clay pipe. 



INDEX. 



Ambrosia, 28. 
Apple Charlotte, 35. 

Bannock, 62. 
Beef a la Mode, 16. 
Beef BaUs, 22. 
Beef, Creamed Dried, 

Frizzled, 19. 
Beef Stew, 17. 
Beer, Root, 104. 
Biscuit, 50, SI, 52, 62. 
Blanc Mange, 26. 
Bread, Brown, 50. 

Com, 53, 54. 

Indian, 56. 

Sticks, 53. 

Wheat, 49. 

White, 49. 
Buns, 58. 

Cabbage, 24, 42. 
Cake, Black, 69. 

Blueberry, 44. 

Bread, 70, 71. 

Breakfast, 64. 

Buckwheat, 56. 

Cardimum, 82. 

Carolina, 73. 

Chocolate, 77, 78. 

Cider, 80. 

Cocoanut, 76. 

Coffee, 77. 

Connecticut, 72. 

Cup, 68. 

Delicate, 69. 

Delicious, 68. 

Drop, 81. 

Election, 71, 72. 



Cake, Flannel, 40. 

French Loaf, 80. 

Fruit, 74, 81. 

Hoe, 64. 

Imperial, 74. 

Jelly, 68. 

Lady, 74. 

Layer, 75. 

Lebanon Pound, 79. 

Loaf, 66. 

Madeira Nut, 75. 

Mountain, 66, 67. 

Nut, 80. 

Orange, 70. 

Pound, 68. 

Quaker Oats, 63. 

Queen's, 69. 

Raised, 73. 

Saxton, 81. 

Spice, 75. 

Sponge, 69. 

Tea, 63. 

Washington, 66. 

White, 77, 79. 
Camphor Ice, 107. 
Candy, Shaker, 107. 
Canning Fruit, 90. 
Catsup, Tomato, 100. 
Charlotte Russe, 27. 
Cheese Cakes, 47. 
Cheese Straws, 65. 
Cherry Compote, 88. 
Chicken, Cheese, 15. 

Creamed, 18. 

En Casserole, 25. 
Chowchow, 10 r. 
Cocoanut Drops, 77. 
Codfish, 20. 



11 



Index 



Cookies, 63, 79, 82, 83. 
Cordial, Ginger, 103. 
Corn, 24. 
Corned Beef, 23. 
Cream, Bavarian, 38. 

Cold, 108. 

Japanese, 108. 
Croquettes, 23. 
Crullers, 62. 
Currants, Spiced, 89. 
Custard, Rennet, 35- 

Doughnuts, 58, 59. 

Dressing, for Cold Slaw, 41, 42. 

Salad, 41. 
Dripping, 62. 
Dumplings, 16. 

Eggs, Scrambled, 55. 

Filling, Lemon, 76. 
Fish, 13. 

Fish Pudding, 12. 
Fritters, 30. 
Frosting, 79, 84. 
" Fudge," 106. 

Gingerbread, 59, 60. 
Grapes, Spiced, 10 1. 
Griddle Cakes, 54. 55- 
Gruel, Oatmeal, 61. 

Ham, to Boil, 15. 

Ice Cream, 31. 
Icing, 67, 76, 78, 84. 

Jam, Raspberry, 89. 

Rhubarb, 85. 

Strawberry, 87. 
Jelly, 26. 

Calf's-Foot, 26. 

Currant, 87, 88. 

Grape, 93, 94. 

Meat, 104. 

Quince, 92, 94. 



Kidneys, 16. 
" Kisses," 84. 

Liver, 15. 

Loaf, Indian, 50. 

Lobster k la Newburg, 21, 22. 

Lobster and Mushroom, 20. 

Lobster, New London Stewed, 22. 

Lotion for Chapped Hands, 108. 

Macaroni, 24. 
Marmalade, Grape, 93. 

Orange, 85. 

Peach, 90. 

Quince and Orange, 95. 
Mince Meat, 39, 4°- 
Molasses Candy, 105. 
Moth and Vermin Exterminator, 109. 
MuflSns, 55, 64. 

Com, 40. 

Oatmeal, 63. 
Mushrooms, 19. 

Saute, 20. 

Souffle, 20. 
Mutton, Minced, 23. 

Nut Candy, 106. 

Omelet, Plain, 57. 

Spanish, 44. 
Oysters, 11. 

Paste, 109. 

Patties, Chicken, 14. 

Peaches, Brandy, 90. 

Peanut Candy, 105. 

Pear, Chipped, 91. 

Pickle, 96, 97, 98. 99. 102, 103. 

Pie, Huckleberry, 36. 

Mince, 36. 

Pumpkin, 37. 

Squash, 37. 
Pigeons, Stewed, 11. 
Pineapple, Preserved, 86. 
Plum Butter, 95. 
Plums, Prune, 95. 

Preserved, 95. 

Spiced, 96. 



Index 



HI 



Polish, Furniture, io8. 
Pomade, 109. 
Popovers, 57, 58. 
Pork, Fry Salt, 11. 
Potatoes, Creamed, 25. 
Potpotxrri, 107. 
Pralines, 106. 
Prune Plums, 95, 
Puddings, 28, 29, 34, 35. 
Pudding, Bread, 30. 

Chocolate, 32. 

Cottage, 44. 

Hasty, 44. 

Lemon, 36. 

Indian, 31, 32. 

Orange, 36. 

Plum, 33, 34. 

Rice, 3?,. 
Puffet, Dutch, 65. 
Puffs, 38. 

Quince, 92. 

Rolls, 49. 

" Parker House," 52. 
Rusk, 64. 

Salad, 46. 

Chicken, 45. 

Tomato, 47. 
Sally Lunn, 57. 
Sardines in Bread Shells, 47. 
Sauce, for Cake, 43. 

For Kidneys, 16. 

For Pudding, 29, 30, 31 

HoUandaise, 14, 42. 

Tartare, 45. 



Sauce, Wine, 43. 
Scones, 64. 
Sherbet, Lemon, 31. 
Shortcake, 41, 55. 

Strawberry, 34. 
Snaps, Ginger, 83. 
Soap Bubbles, no. 
Soup, Bean, 10. 

Beef, 7. 

Beef (good), 8. 

Clam, 8. 

Pea, 8. 

Potato, 10. 
Stew, Beef, 17. 
Stock, Soup, 9. 
Strawberry Jam, 87. 
Strawberries, Preserved, 87. 
Sweetbreads, 19. 
Syrup, Blackberry, 104. 

For Preserves, 91. 

Terrapin, 17. 
Toast, Golden, 30. 

Milk, 61. 
Tutti-Frutti, 85. 

Veal, 7. 

Loaf, II. 
Vermin and Moth Exterminator, 
Vinegar, Raspberry, 104. 

Wafers, Walnut, 82. 
WaflBles, 54- 

Yeast, Hop, 60. 
Potato, 61. 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



,„jiiiiiiii 

3 9999 05987 696 9 



»x^' 









- "■ ■ J" 


n 


flig 



* ^^'% \^||N^ 



<^ '"^."i* j,Oy "^^ *'T^T»' A <^ 'o.* 












., -.w^y ,0^"-% ^■.-^." /"-^c, -^^.o^^-t, 

















/^ 




V 











''.X ^"^ ';^"^" V-sT "^ 






THE 



GENESEE VALLEY 
COOK BOOK 



BY 

Miss MUNIKORD 



Privately Printed 
1905 



iV 



.0 



^\> 






" X)5 



Cfre JFort l^ill Press 

SAMUEL USHER 

176 TO 184 HIGH STREET 

BOSTON, MASS. 



Table of Contents 



PAGE 

CHAPTER I 

Soups, Meats, Hashes, Vegetables, etc. . 7 



CHAPTER H 

Puddings, Pies and Salads 26 

CHAPTER III 

Breads 49 

CHAPTER IV 

Cake 66 

CHAPTER V 

Preserved Fruits, Jellies, etc 85 

CHAPTER VI 

Pickles, Lotions, Miscellaneous .... 96 



Note 



This little book comprises a collection of re- 
ceipts, new and old, which have long been famous 
in the Genesee Valley, many of them dating back 
nearly a hundred years. They have been col- 
lected mostly in one family, though the house- 
wives are various. It has seemed to the writer 
worth while to preserve thein for this and the 
coming generations. 



THE GENESEE VALLEY COOK BOOK 



Chapter I 
SOUPS, MEATS, HASHES, VEGETABLES, ETC. 



BEEF SOUP 

A shin of beef, the bone cut in two. Add eight quarts 
of water. Let stand on a warm hearth for three hours, 
then boil it slowly. Stand it aside over night. In the 
morning take off the fat; add three carrots, three onions, 
one turnip, twelve cloves, twenty-four allspice, a little 
pepper and salt. Boil thoroughly. When done, strain 
and add dessertspoon brown sugar. 

TO PREPARE VEAL 

Take the breast of veal, slip out the bones, cover it 
an inch thick with a rich dressing in which is a little 
onion (like that for duck). Roll it over, tie tightly at 
each end and bake. When done, make a gravy and 
pour over it. 

TO PREPARE VEAL 

Three and one-half pounds of the nicest parts of the 
lean and fat of a leg of veal. Six small crackers , pounded 
fine, two eggs, piece of butter size of an egg, one table- 
spoon black pepper, one nutmeg, slice of salt pork, and a 
little parsley. Work all together in the form of a loaf 



8 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

of bread, put bits of butter over the top and grate crusts 
of bread on it. Place it on a grate, set in a dripping 
pan with a little water in it, and baste it often. Two 
hours will be a proper time for cooking. Judge when it 
is done by running fork through. 

PEA SOUP 

One quart split peas, six quarts water, a piece of salt 
pork large enough to season it, small piece of steak or 
cold roast beef. Boil four or five hours, strain through 
a sieve. 

CLAM SOUP 

Wash clams thoroughly in two waters ; put them into 
a stewpan with a small quantity of water, and let them 
come to a boil. The process of boiling will open the 
clams. Take them out, as they are sufficiently cooked, 
chop them fine and put them where they will be kept 
warm. Roll some crackers and put into the soup with 
milk, butter, and pepper. Throw the clams into tureen, 
and pour the liquid over them and send to table. 

GOOD BEEF SOUP 

Five pounds soup beef. Cover well with water. Two 
carrots, four turnips, two roots celery, two leeks sliced 
thin and dropped in kettle. Cook vegetables in soup 
until not quite thoroughly done, then take them out 
entirely. Take six large potatoes, slice and boil them 
in the soup, and mash them thoroughly in the kettle. 
Add chopped parsley and season to taste. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 9 

KATE'S SOUP STOCK 

Take sliank of beef that weighs about twenty pounds. 
Cut off meat and at about eight o'clock in morning lay 
it in bottom of kettle. Put bones on top, taking out 
the marrow. One cup water, and let boil two hours, 
stirring often. Then cover with boiling water from 
teakettle; cover tight and let boil until eight at night, 
adding water as often as needed. Strain, having three 
quarts, and set in refrigerator till morning. Then take 
off every particle of grease, and it will be ready for use. 

SOUP STOCK 

Shin of beef, knuckle of veal, — ten pounds in all after 
trimming. Cut the meat into dice, crush the bones 
somewhat. One small onion, cut fine. Put all into 
four quarts of water. Let it stand in soup -digester on 
range a full hour before cooking at all. Then let it 
simmer slowly all day, until the meat is in rags, but do 
not let the liquid fall below five pints. Leave in soup- 
digester over night, and simmer again the next day, 
four or five hours. Cool and strain through a linen 
damask into a stone crock. The next morning remove 
all the fat from the top. The stock, when cold, should 
be of the consistency of a stiff jelly and the color of 
wine. This soup is better strained only, not cleared 
with egg. Any cooked pieces of lean steak or grouse 
added during the first cooking give a good flavor and 
color. Pepper and salt should be added when any part 
of the stock is heated for serving. A part may be 
heated, flavored, shaped in jelly mold and served cold. 



lo The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

BLACK BEAN SOUP (i) 

Put about one quart black beans in soak over night, 
and for a six o'clock dinner put them over the fire by 
about ten o'clock in the morning. Let them simmer 
slowly, well covered with water. About twelve, add 
the roast-beef bones, having cut off the fat, and let all 
simmer together until you are ready to put in the vege- 
tables, — an onion, a leek, and a carrot sliced. Cut a 
lemon and a hard-boiled egg into slices, put them in 
the soup tureen. Pour the soup , after having seasoned 
it with salt and pepper to taste, through your soup 
sieve on to them. The thickness of the soup is a matter 
of taste. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP (2) 
(Ontario Beach recipe [Aunt Mary D.'s] ) 

One pint black beans, soaked in one gallon cold water 
over night. In the morning add to this, one pound 
beef, one-half pound salt pork, one large or two small 
onions, one carrot grated. Let this boil slowly until 
the beans are thoroughly cooked, then strain and mash 
through a colander. Add salt and pepper. Cut a 
lemon in thin slices, a hard-boiled egg sliced, and a 
wineglass port wine in your tureen, and pour the hot 
soup over them. 

POTATO SOUP (C. H. L.) 

Ten large potatoes, boiled soft. Pour off the water 
and mash one-quarter pound of butter with the 
potatoes; pour three pints cold milk over the whole 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book ii 

and allow to come to a boil, stirring all the time. 
Pepper, salt, and mace to taste. A few crackers in the 
soup after it is strained into the tureen. 

STEWED PIGEONS 

Prepare a stuffing of bread and butter, with salt and 
pepper in plenty. When stuffed, put the birds in a pot; 
cover with cold water, and stew down as for a fricassee. 
If the birds are old put them on early and stew until 
quite tender. 

TO FRY SALT PORK 

Slice the pork thin, lay it in spider, put water on it 
and let it boil a feiv moments only. Pour off the water, 
wipe out the spider and keep it hot. Dip each slice of 
pork into flour, lay it back into spider and let fry on 
both sides. Pour off most of the fat; add some milk, 
and when it begins to boil, add cream and a sprinkle of 
flour, or a little flour and butter rubbed to a paste. 

VEAL LOAF 

Four pounds veal cutlet, two slices raw salt pork, 
one teaspoon each of salt, pepper, and sage, four 
powdered crackers, three eggs, one teaspoonful cream. 
Chop pork and veal very fine, mix all together and bake 
three hours in long, narrow pans. 

TO COOK OYSTERS (Two quarts) 

Put oysters in saucepan, with enough of their own 
liquor to cover them. Let them nearly cook. Drain 



12 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

through a colander. Put Hquid back in saucepan and 
add one cup milk, one and one-half tablespoons flour, 
butter size of a hen's egg, a little nutmeg, pepper, and 
salt. When flour is thoroughly cooked, throw in the 
oysters long enough to heat through, and then serve. 

FISH PUDDING 

One pound of boiled halibut, one-half cup of cream 
or milk, one and one-half tablespoons butter, one-half 
tablespoon flour, one and one-half teaspoons salt, one- 
quarter teaspoon pepper, one-half teaspoon onion juice, 
two eggs. Pound the fish in a mortar until it is thor- 
oughly mashed, then rub it through a puree sieve. 
Season the fish pulp with salt, pepper, and onion juice. 
Put the butter into a saucepan and when melted add 
the flour and cook for a few minutes. Then add slowly 
the cream or milk, stirring it constantly until well 
scalded. Then add the fish pulp, take from the fire, 
add the beaten eggs, and mix thoroughly. Butter well 
a ring or border-mold holding a pint or a little more, 
put in the mixture, pressing it well against the sides to 
remove any air bubbles. Cover the mold with a greased 
paper and set in a pan of warm water, one-half the mold 
in depth. Place in moderate oven for thirty minutes, 
and do not let the water boil. Then place the form of 
fish on a hot dish, fill the center with boiled potato 
balls. Pour over the balls some Bechamel or other 
white sauce, and sprinkle chopped parsley over the top. 
Serve with the fish a generous amount of Bechamel or 
white sauce. This is a verv good dish. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 13 

CUSQUE A LA CREME 

Use halibut, haddock, or any other fish. After boiling 
the fish in salt and water, pick it from the bones and 
break it into fine pieces. Put a cup of flour into a stew- 
pan, and add by degrees one quart of milk; mix very 
smoothly. Cut two onions fine, grate a little nutmeg, 
add teaspoon of salt and one-quarter teaspoon of pepper. 
Put all over the fire and stir until it thickens. Add 
one-quarter pound butter and strain it through a sieve. 
Lay some of this mixture in a baking dish and then 
a layer of fish, until it is all used up, adding salt and 
pepper if required. Finish with the sauce. Sprinkle 
over all some fine bread crumbs and put it for half an 
hour into the oven, or just long enough to brown it 
lightly. 

FISH FOR DINNER 

Small haddock, about three pounds. Boil it with a 
little vinegar in the water to make it white, and when 
cool enough flake it fine and have ready for use the 
following. Put in double boiler one pint milk, one clove, 
two bay leaves, a little cinnamon bark, two whole black 
peppers, a little parsley, and one onion. Let it come to 
a boil and strain. Take one and one-half tablespoons 
butter, melt it, one and one-half tablespoons flour, stir 
until perfectly smooth and add to hot milk. When it 
is thoroughly cooked and thick, add the flaked fish. 
Let it remain until heated through. Put it into a but- 
tered mold in which you have thrown a few capers, 
and let it stand until it gets cold. The mold should be 
deep, so that the water will not come over the top. Set 



14 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

the mold into a pan of hot water and let remain in the 
oven until it is heated through. When very hot, turn 
over on to a platter and set in the heater (but let the 
mold remain on it) until ready to serve. When ready 
for the table, pour over it the following: 

SAUCE HOLLANDAISE 

Take one-quarter cup butter, yolks of two eggs, juice 
of one quarter of a lemon, a shake of red pepper, a little 
onion, and a little salt. Cream the butter, add the yolk 
of one egg little by little; beat up thoroughly; then 
the other yolk little by little, then the salt and pepper, 
and then the lemon juice drop by drop. When all is 
well beaten, put in small saucepan over hot water and 
gradually add one-quarter cup of boiling water. Stir 
until perfectly smooth like custard. You can make 
double this quantity of sauce, for it will keep, and can be 
used instead of mayonnaise for vegetable and other 
salads. If any of the fish is left put it in shells, cover 
with bread crumbs and set in oven for tea. 

CHICKEN PATTIES 

Take one chicken. Boil until tender in just enough 
water to cover it, in which have half an onion. When 
cold separate the meat from the bones and cut it in 
small pieces. Strain and skim the stock in which the 
chicken has cooked, and thicken with a little flour and 
butter. Put in the chicken and season with salt, pepper, 
and a little nutmeg. One pair of sweetbreads boiled 
will add greatly to its flavor, also a little chopped parsley 
or truffles. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 15 

CHICKEN CHEESE 

Boil a chicken to pieces, and separate the meat from 
the bones. Chop it fine, and mix with it salt, pepper, 
melted butter, and a squeeze of a lemon. Take a cupful 
of stock, boil it down until it will jelly, pour it into a 
form, and let it stand over night. In the morning put 
the chicken into the form and press it in good, put a 
piece of bread over it and weights, and let it stand in 
refrigerator until tea time. 

LIVER PATTY 

One half of a calf's liver. Boil two hours ; put through 
a sieve. Mix with it pepper and salt until it tastes 
right, two tablespoons of cream, two tablespoons of 
butter. Mix liver and butter until smooth, then add 
cream, put in jar and press down. Cover and put on ice. 
Let stand twenty -four hours. Put in truffles to make 
extra nice. Use with toasted cracker or toasted bread, 
as you would foie gras. Nice with salad. 

TO BOIL A HAM 

Cover the ham with cold water and soak all night. 
In the morning change the water and put it on back of 
the stove and boil very slowly, until it is about half done, 
or until you can just stick a fork into it a little. Then 
pour ofif half the water, and fill up with pure vinegar, and 
add two cups of brown sugar and let it boil until done. 
If you care for the looks, a few minutes before dinner 
stick in a few cloves, cover with bread crumbs, and set 
in the oven just long enough to brown the crumbs. 



1 6 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

BEEF A LA MODE 

A round of beef, from nine to twelve pounds. Sprinkle 
with vinegar. Lard it with salt pork, stick it full of 
cloves and allspice. Stuff the hole from which the 
bone was taken with a dressing as for fowls, adding 
chopped onion. Set it away for a day. Slice a large 
onion, and with one-quarter pound salt pork, butter 
the size of a hen's egg, stew in water until it boils. Dredge 
the meat with flour, and set in the oven in the made 
gravy. Cook rapidly fifteen minutes, then simmer slowly 
four or five hours. Just before serving, pour over it a 
pint of port or claret wine. 

DUMPLINGS FOR SOUP OR POT-PIE 

One quart sour milk, two teaspoons soda, piece of 
butter size of an egg, a little salt. Not very stiff. Cook 
in a steamer one hour. 

KIDNEYS (M. M. B.) 

Eight kidneys cut in small pieces. Melt some butter 
in a frying pan, then put in a few kidneys at a time, 
stirring constantly for about three minutes, but use own 
judgment when they are cooked tender. When done 
(toast being already made) add a little salt and pepper, 
and put them on the toast. Salt draws juice out and 
should be added last. 

SAUCE FOR KIDNEYS 

Piece of butter, size of a small egg, in a saucepan. 
Then add one tablespoon flour, and let it get a nice golden 
brown (not too dark). When that is done, add one-half 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 17 

cup water, one-half cup cream, and one-half cup port and 
sherry mixed. Whatever juice comes from the kidneys 
add to the sauce, and season all with salt and pepper to 
taste. If it should be too thick, add a little more cream 
and pour sauce over kidneys on the toast. 

TERRAPIN (M. M. B.) 

Have ready a pot of boiling water, into which put a 
teaspoon of salt for each terrapin. Wash the live 
terrapin in two or three waters, until they are perfectly 
clean, then put them into the boiling water and cook 
for one hour. When the flesh becomes quite tender, 
so that you can pull it apart easily, pull the top shell off, 
remove the sand-bag and gall (which you must be care- 
ful not to break as it will make the whole dish bitter). 
Cut up all the other parts of the inside with the meat, 
except the skinny portions and intestines. To every 
terrapin, unless very small, allow two ounces of butter 
cut in small pieces and rolled in flour. Season with 
equal portions of salt and black pepper, one-half tea- 
spoon each is sufficient, and two glasses sherry to each 
terrapin. Put in a stewpan and simmer gently for 
about an hour. Just before serving beat up the yolks 
of the eggs (one egg to each terrapin) and stir in the last 
thing. It is a great addition to squeeze in the juice of 
a couple of lemons, and also a little port wine. 

BEEF STEW (Enough for six persons) 

Four tablespoons butter, two tablespoons chopped 
onion, two tablespoons flour, one pint string beans, two 
carrots, two quarts potatoes, three pounds rump steak 



1 8 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

(or aitchbone). Cut the meat into small pieces, put 
butter and onion on to fry. When the onion is well 
browned, add the meat and fry for about ten minutes. 
Then dredge in the flour, add pepper and salt to taste. 
Then pour on boiling water enough to cover and bring 
it all to a boil. Cover it up and stand it on back of the 
stove for about three hours. Cook the beans, carrots, 
and potatoes ; make a border around the dish with them. 
Put meat in the center and pour the gravy over it, and 
make rings of the vegetables around it in their order. 

CREAMED CHICKEN 

About five pounds of chicken. Cook in as little water 
as you can. Strain out the broth, separate the chicken 
from the bones, cut in rather small pieces and keep 
warm. Put broth into saucepan and add to it one 
pint of milk and about the same quantity of cream, 
butter size of an egg, one large tablespoon flour; stir 
well with salt, pepper and a little cayenne. Let come 
to a boil and pour hot over the chicken. One-half pint 
of oysters added is an improvement. Serve on deep 
platter, with points of toast around edge. 

CREAMED DRIED BEEF 

One tablespoon butter, one cup milk, one-half tea- 
spoon cornstarch mixed with a little milk; add the rest 
of the milk and butter melted; season with salt and 
pepper. Let all come to a boil, then add one-half pound 
dried beef which has been freshened in cold water for 
three or four minutes and patted dry. Heat it through 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 19 

and pour in the dish over buttered toast. Add an egg, 
if you choose to make it richer. 

FRIZZLED BEEF 

One-half pound dried beef cut into small pieces, one 
tablespoon hot butter, one tablespoon flour. Cook all 
until slightly brown. Add one cup cream, dash of 
pepper, two eggs well beaten. When boiling, serve, 
with or without toast. 

SWEETBREADS (Mrs. Putnam) 

Lard the sweetbreads with salt pork and boil in clear 
water about fifteen minutes ; put them into cold water 
about ten minutes ; then put them into a pan. Dredge 
in a little flour, about one-half pint hot water, very little 
mace, pepper, and salt. Set them into oven to brown 
about twenty minutes. Dish the sweetbreads, add to 
the gravy a piece of butter about the size of an egg, and 

I a little flour. Give it one boil and turn it over the sweet- 
breads hot. Garnish the dish with sliced lemon and 

, parsley. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS (Mrs. Putnam) 

I Be sure your mushrooms are fresh. Soak and wash 
I them very clean. Put into a saucepan half a pint of 
1 water, one ounce of butter, the juice of one lemon, a 
I little salt, pepper, then the mushrooms; set the sauce- 
( pan on a quick fire, let them boil ten minutes, stirring 
I all the time. Thicken half a cup of cream with a little 
! flour; stir it in and let it boil once. Send them to the 
table in a covered dish. 



20 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

MUSHROOMS SOUFFLE 

One-half cup fine bread crumbs and one cup milk, 
cooked together ten minutes. Pour this on to the 
beaten yolks of three eggs. Add one-half pound of 
finely chopped mushrooms, and the whites of three eggs 
beaten until stiff, cutting and folding them in. Bake in 
molds set in a pan of water in moderate oven from 
twenty to thirty minutes. 

MUSHROOMS SAUTE 

Melt two tablespoons butter, add one-quarter pound 
mushroom-caps. Cook until tender. Remove mush- 
rooms, add one-half cup cream, and pour around the 
mushrooms. 

LOBSTER AND MUSHROOM FRICASSEE 
(Boston Cooking School) 

Melt two tablespoons butter, add two tablespoons 
flour, one cup thin cream, one-quarter teaspoon each of 
salt, cayenne, and paprika. Add meat from a two- 
pound lobster, and one-half pound mushrooms, peeled 
and broken in pieces. Cook ten minutes; add one-half 
cup sherry wine, and cook until hot. Serve with toast- 
points. 

FOR LUNCHEON OR TEA 

Pick up one teacup of codfish (salt) , let it soak in luke- 
warm water while you mix two cups cold mashed pota- 
toes with one pint sweet milk, two eggs, a good-sized 
lump of butter, and pepper and salt to taste. Then add 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 21 

the codfish, mix all well, and bake in buttered pudding 
dish for from twenty-five minutes to half an hour. 
Serve hot. 

CODFISH BALLS (H. S. F. M.) 

One cup picked codfish, two cups quartered potatoes, 
one teaspoon butter, one well-beaten egg. Put the 
picked fish into cold water long enough to soak it. 
Pour off water, add the potatoes, cover with boiling water 
land boil for about twenty minutes, or until the potatoes 
are cooked. Strain; add butter and beat well. Add 
the egg. When all are well mixed, slip off one spoonful 
at a time into hot lard. 

I SALT CODFISH CREAMED 

One cup codfish, shred, wash, and drain. Take one 
tablespoon hot butter, one tablespoon arrowroot or 
'flour, and cook until smooth. Add one cup of cream 
'and dash of pepper. Cook this dressing until it boils. 
jAdd the fish and cook five minutes. Then add two 
*eggs well beaten and serve on toast. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG 

Three lobsters that weigh about six pounds, one-half 
pint sherry. Cut lobster fine and pour the wine on it, 
[letting it stand until absorbed; one pint cream, yolks 
jof three eggs, one-quarter pound of butter, red pepper, 
salt. Put cream and butter together and let them come 
jto a boil. Add lobster. At the last, add yolks of eggs, 
and do not let the mixture boil after the eggs are in. 



2 2 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG (Mrs. Rorer) 

Boil a three-pound lobster in salted water for thirty 
minutes. When cool take out the meat and cut it into 
nice blocks. Rub one tablespoon of flour with a quarter 
of a pound of butter; add one gill of cream and the 
hard-boiled yolks of four eggs. Stir this over the fire 
until it just begins to thicken; add lobster and when hot 
take it from the fire, add quarter of a teaspoon of salt, 
a pinch of mace, a dash of cayenne, and four tablespoons 
of sherry. 

NEW LONDON STEWED LOBSTER 

Have ready boiling water, with a handful of salt in it. 
Put in the lobsters, as soon after they have left their 
native element as possible. Boil until they are red and 
the small claws can be easily separated from the body. 
Pick meat from the shell, put it in a saucepan; add 
butter, black pepper, cayenne and salt. Beat an egg, 
and when the lobster boils, add the egg, with one or 
two tablespoons of good vinegar. Serve immediately. 



BEEF BALLS (C. H. L.) 

Mince very fine a piece of tender beef, fat and lean. 
Mince an onion with some boiled parsley. Add grated 
bread crumbs, and season with pepper, salt, grated nut- 
meg and lemon peel. Mix all together and moisten 
with one beaten egg. Roll into balls. Flour and fry 
in boiling pork drippings. Serve with fried bread 
crumbs, or with a thickened brown gravv. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 23 

CROQUETTES 

Melt three tablespoons of butter ; stir in one-third cup 
of flour; add one cup milk. Let cook until it thickens. 
Set away until cold. When wanted add one cup of 
any kind of flaked fish, or finely chopped meat. Season 
to taste. (For fish croquettes, foar drops onion juice.) 
Shape, roll in egg thinned with a little water, and fry in 
hot fat. 

MINCED CORNED BEEF (Mrs. Putnam) 

Chop some corned beef, fat and lean together, very 
fine, and as much potato; mix them together; put them 
into a frying pan with a good-sized piece of butter and 
a little pepper. Stir it frequently until it is very hot; 
then let it stand until the bottom is brown ; turn it on to 
a flat dish and dress it with a little parsley. 

MINCED MUTTON (Mrs. Putnam) 

Chop the mutton very fine; put it into a frying pan, 
with some of the gravy, if you have it; if not, put in a 
little soup stock, just enough to moisten it; season it 
with butter, pepper, and salt; stir it frequently, that it 
may not fry, but get very hot. Serve on slices of toasted 
bread; garnish with lemon. 

RICE CROQUETTES 

To one cup of rice put one pint of milk, and one-half 
pint of water. Boil until tender. Add yolks of three 
eggs beaten light, and butter size of a walnut. Make 
into rolls, dip into the whites of the eggs beaten light; 
roll in bread or cracker crumbs and fry in hot lard, like 
fritters. 



24 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

BAKED CORK 

Cut off and scrape twelve ears of corn; one-half cup 
milk, one egg, one tablespoon flour, butter size of a 
walnut, salt to taste. Bake half an hour. 

BAKED MACARONI 

Boil one-quarter pound macaroni in milk, until quite 
soft, then stir in one ounce cheese, salt, and cayenne 
pepper. Put it in a baking dish, and grate over it two 
ounces of cheese, and two or three small crackers. 
Spread over all a thin layer of butter and set it in the 
oven to brown. 

NANTUCKET CORN PUDDING (Mrs. Putnam) 

Eight ears of corn grated from the cob, two soft 
crackers pounded fine, three eggs, one cup of sugar, 
one pint of milk, salt to the taste. Bake it one hour. 

CORN OYSTERS 

Grate twelve ears of corn. Two eggs, one tablespoon 
powdered sugar, one-half cup milk, two tablespoons 
flour, a little bit of soda on end of a knife. Put corn, 
fiour, eggs, and sugar together, mix them well, then add 
milk and soda last. Be exact about the quantity of 
flour, as more makes the oysters tough. Fry as you do 
fritters, with plenty of hot fat. 

TO COOK CABBAGE (Mrs. Putnam) 

Boil the cabbage two hours. It is very nice also, if 
boiled, chopped very fine and fried in a little butter. 
When done, add a little vinegar and stir it up. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 25 

CREAMED POTATOES (J. B. M.) 

One quart of cold boiled potatoes, cut in dice, one pint 
(scant) of milk. Cook five minutes in double boiler. 
Add three tablespoons butter, one tablespoon chopped 
parsley, one teaspoon lemon juice, one heaping teaspoon 
flour, yolks of two eggs. Cook five minutes. 

CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE 

Cut half a small carrot and a quarter of a head of 
celery in strips about an inch long and half the thickness 
of a lead pencil; parboil until half cooked. Roast a 
medium sized chicken for about twenty minutes in 
ordinary way in oven. Slice a small onion fine, also two 
thick slices of bacon in strips like the carrots ; fry them 
together in your "casserole"; add one or two fresh 
mushrooms cut into small pieces. When nicely colored, 
add a teaspoonful of flour, moisten with one-half pint 
of good stock, or light gravy. Add a little sherry. 
When this boils, add the half -cooked carrots and 
celery, and the chicken. Put on the cover and let 
simmer in oven for thirty minutes or more if neces- 
sary. The chicken must be very well done. A few 
small, round potatoes (potatoes Parisienne) parboiled 
and partly fried can be added to it, also a few French 
peas at last. Serve casserole on folded napkin. 

One tablespoon of strong coffee imparts a delicious 
flavor and color to gravy for meats. 



Chapter II 
PUDDINGS, PIES, AND SALADS 



BLANC MANGE 

Two quarts milk, one-half paper isinglass or one-half 
package Cox's gelatine. Soak isinglass in some of the 
milk, scald the remainder and pour it on the soaked 
isinglass. Let it come to a boil, stirring it all the time. 
When done and somewhat cool, add vanilla. Put in 
sugar if desired. Serve with sugar and cream when 
perfectly cold. This is simple, delicate, and good. 

CALF'S-FOOT JELLY 

Cut in pieces four calves' feet. Put to them four 
quarts water. Boil down to two quarts; strain the 
liquid and let it stand all night. In the morning remove 
grease from the top and the sediment. Put it in a pan 
with one pint of wine, the juice of four lemons, and 
sugar to taste. Add whites of eight eggs beaten to a 
froth, then boil thirty minutes; take it off and add one 
cup cold water. Let it stand a few minutes, then pass 
it through a flannel bag and pour into glasses. 

WINE JELLY 

One box Cox's gelatine dissolved in one pint cold 
water, one pint boiling water, a little more than one 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 27 

pint sugar, two lemons (rind of one and juice of both), 
one stick of cinnamon, whites and shells of two eggs, 
one pint sherry wine. To put together: Add to the 
dissolved gelatine first the lemon (the rind cut, not 
grated), then the eggs and stick cinnamon. Let them 
come to a boil, then take off and add the wine and pour 
through flannel bag. 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE (Mrs. Whitney) 

One pint milk, four pieces isinglass soaked in water 
for twenty minutes. Then drain off water, put it into 
the cold milk, set it over the fire and let it heat gradually, 
stirring it all the time. When hot, stir in yolks of four 
eggs and one pound sugar. Let it simmer but not boil. 
Then cool it and when cold stir in one quart cream, 
whipped to a stiff froth. Flavor with lemon or vanilla, 
place sponge cake in mold and set it on ice. If you 
want it very rich, three pints or two quarts of cream 
may be used with the same quantity of other ingre- 
dients. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

Dissolve one-quarter ounce gelatine in enough milk 
to cover it. Whip one pint cream, having first sweet- 
ened and flavored it with three tablespoons powdered 
sugar and one teaspoon vanilla. As it froths, take it 
off on to a sieve. When it will froth no longer, strain 
into the bowl the gelatine; add one well-beaten egg. 
Beat into it the froth, and pour into your dish, which 
is lined with strips of cake or lady fingers. 



28 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

LEMON PUDDING 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, five eggs, two lemons, 
one pint sweet milk. Stir butter and sugar together. 
Beat the eggs separately and put them in next. Stir 
in the milk; grate the outside of the lemons; squeeze 
the juice and put it in the last thing. Bake in a crust. 
Cocoanut may be made in the same way. 

" AMBROSIA " 

Orange and pineapple cut fine and dusted with sugar. 
Place a layer of this in glass dish, then a layer of grated 
cocoanut. Make as many double layers as you wish, 
always having cocoanut at top. 

" POOR MAN'S PLUM PUDDING " 

One-half cup butter, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup 
molasses, one cup milk, one tablespoon cinnamon, two 
eggs, flour enough to make as thick as poundcake, one 
small teaspoon soda, one pint fruit. Melt butter and 
mix with it sugar, molasses, and milk. First put soda 
into the molasses. Boil three hours or more. 

TRENTON FALLS PUDDING (Mrs. Miller) 

Four ounces butter, one-half pint or a tablespoon 
com meal, one-half pint powdered sugar, three eggs. 
Beat butter and sugar together until very light, add 
the yolks, beat them in thoroughly, then the meal by 
degrees, and lastly the whites whisked to a stiff froth. 
Mix well and bake in a buttered dish for half an hour. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 29 

Serve hot with a poury sauce. It looks like a rich 
pound cake. 

SAUCE FOR PUDDING 

Boil one-half pint water, and stir into it two teaspoons 
flour or arrow-root or cornstarch mixed smooth in 
cold water. Let this simmer slowly while you beat to 
a very light froth one teacup brown sugar and one- 
half teacup butter. Add a little nutmeg and wine, or 
the juice of half a lemon, with the other half cut in 
slices. Put the lemon or spice and wine into a gravy- 
boat, stir the boiling mixture into the sugar and butter, 
and pour into the boat. 

WARRENER'S PUDDING 

One pint and three gills of flour, one-half pint of sweet 
milk, one-half pint chopped suet (or small portion of 
butter or lard instead), one-half pint chopped raisins, 
one-half pint molasses, three-quarters teaspoon soda, two 
teaspoons cinnamon, one-half teaspoon clove, one nut- 
meg, or one teaspoon allspice. Mix well together, 
adding the soda dissolved in a little of the milk before 
putting in all of the flour. Boil or steam in a mold or 
bag for three hours. Serve with sauce. 

SAUCE 

Rub two ounces of butter with an even tablespoon of 
flour. Stir in one-half pint brown sugar and one-half 
gill of boiled cider, or vinegar. Add one gill boiling 
water. Mix well, let it simmer a few moments; then 
serve hot. 



3© The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

BREAD PUDDING 

One quart sweet milk, one and one-lialf pints bread 
crumbs, one tablespoon sugar, small teaspoon salt, a 
little nutmeg, small piece of butter, handful of raisins. 
Soak bread crumbs in the milk for several hours ; add 
other ingredients and just before putting in oven add 
one beaten egg. Bake about twenty minutes. Serve 
with hard sauce, — half as much butter as sugar. 

FRITTERS 

Four eggs, one pint milk, a little salt, flour to make 
a light batter. Drop with a spoon into hot lard. 

APPLE FRITTERS 

Make the above batter. Slice the apples one-quarter 
of an inch thick the round way. Dip the slices into 
brandy, roll in the batter and fry in hot lard. Serve 
with sugar and wine. 

GOLDEN TOAST (Dessert) 

Take stale baker's bread, cut into very thick slices 
and soak it for one hour (or until it is thoroughly 
softened), in one quart of sweet milk, with four eggs 
well beaten into it. Then fry it in butter and send to 
the table hot, with a nice liquid sauce. 

SAUCE 

Boil one-half pint water and stir into it two table 
spoons of flour or arrowroot, mixed smoothly with a 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 31 

little cold water. Let this simmer slowly while yott stir 
very light a teacup of white sugar and a lump of butter 
the size of an egg. Beat this into the boiling mixture. 
If your pudding is sweet, put in the juice of half a lemon, 
the other half cut in rings. If not sweet, a glass of wine 
and a little grated nutmeg. 

MARY'S PUDDING SAUCE 

One-half cup butter, one cup powdered sugar, three 
tablespoons boiling water, one tablespoon vanilla. 
Cream butter and sugar; add water and vanilla when 
ready to serve. 

LEMON SHERBET 

Six eggs, one cup sugar. Beat these together very 
light. Grate one lemon and use the juice of two lemons, 
one cup water. This will make one quart. 

LEMON ICE CREAM 

One quart milk, or part cream, one pint sugar, juice 
of four lemons and one orange if convenient. Cool the 
milk, then add lemon juice and sugar and put in freezer. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING (i) 

Three tablespoons Indian meal, two cups milk, two 
I eggs, one tablespoon butter, one teaspoon salt, one cup 
' molasses. Steam milk and meal in it for three quarters 
j of an hour; add beaten eggs and other ingredients. 
I Strain it and bake three quarters of an hour. 



32 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING (2) 

Boil one quart of milk. Stir into it one-half pint 
Indian meal. Let it cool, then add four well-beaten 
eggs, two cups brown sugar, a little butter. Bake 
three hours. 

INDIAN PUDDING (S. W. W.) (3) 

Boil one quart milk and pour gradually on to six 
tablespoons Indian meal (rounded not heaped). Let it 
cool, then add piece of butter size of a butternut, tea- 
cup molasses, one teaspoon salt, good one-half teaspoon 
each of ginger and cinnamon. Pour into a buttered 
dish, and bake two hours or more in a moderate oven. 
It is well to stir it from the bottom once or twice, before 
the crust forms on top. Serve with butter or cream, 

BOILED INDIAN PUDDING 

Two cups Indian meal; scald it with one pint boiling 
milk. Add one cup flour, one cup beef or veal suet, 
chopped fine, one-half gill molasses, two cups dried 
apples, teaspoon of salt. Mix this well together. Tie 
the cloth so as to allow the pudding to swell one third. 
Boil constantly for five hours. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

One pint milk put over to boil. Take one-half cup 
sugar, two tablespoons cornstarch, and one egg. Beat 
these well together. Stir them into the scalded milk. 
When thoroughly mixed add one square of chocolate, 
and put all in a mold and set where it will get cold. 
Serve with cream sweetened and flavored with vanilla. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 33 

RICE PUDDING 

Three-quarters cup of rice washed thoroughly, three 
pints milk, a very little salt; make pretty sweet to taste. 
Flavor with nutmeg or cinnamon. Bake slowly three 
or four hours. Serve cold. 

MONTREAL RICE PUDDING 

Seven tablespoons rice, — wash it well, — a pinch of salt, 
one tablespoon cinnamon, one cup light-brown sugar. 
Stir these well and add gradually two quarts milk, one 
cup raisins, a few shreds fresh orange peel, piece of butter 
the size of an egg for each quart of milk. Stir it two or 
three times after it goes into the oven. Bake slowly 
two or three hours. For small family one half this re- 
iceipt is sufficient. 

I UNRIVALED PLUM PUDDING 

One and one-half pounds table raisins, one and three- 
iquarters pounds currants, one pound seedless raisins, 
I two pounds finest coffee sugar, two pounds bread crumbs, 
Isixteen eggs, two pounds finely chopped suet, six ounces 
mixed candied peel (orange, lemon and citron), grated 
rind of two large lemons, one ounce grated nutmeg, 
lone ounce ground cinnamon, four ounces Jordan almonds, 
'one cup brandy. This will make one large pudding, 
jor two small ones. Stone and cut the raisins, but do 
Inot chop them. Wash and dry the currants and cut 
jthe candied peel into thin slices. Mix all the dry 
lingredients well together, and moisten with the eggs, 
jwhich should be well beaten and strained into the 
jpudding. Stir in the brandy, and when all is thoroughly 



34 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

mixed, butter and flour well a stout new pudding-cloth. 
Put in the pudding, tie it down very tightly and closely, 
boil from six to eight hours, and serve with brandy 
sauce. 

PLUM PUDDING (New London) 

Three cups flour, one cup milk, with piece of butter the 
size of an egg melted in it (a cup of suet may be used 
instead of butter), one cup molasses, one teaspoon soda, 
two teaspoons cream tartar or three teaspoons baking 
powder, a little salt, one cup of raisins, one cup 
currants, one cup citron. Put the batter in a cake pan, 
and steam it three and one-half hours. Do not lift the 
cover while steaming. Serve with hot sauce. 

SAUCE 

Rub equal parts of butter and sugar together. Add 
a little vinegar, and stir it well in. Spice to your taste. 
Then add a few tablespoons of boiling water, which 
will make it foam beautifully. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

Make a dough, very short (shorter than for biscuit) , 
roll it out in two laj^ers, put dots of butter between. 
Bake fifteen minutes. Separate layers, put back in 
oven and dry a few minutes. Fill with sugared berries. 

WHORTLEBERRY PUDDING 

Into one pint sifted flour stir one and one-half pints 
whortleberries, taking care not to break them. Dust 
in a little salt; add a cup of molasses into wdiich put a 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 35 

lamp of soda, not as large as a walnut. Stir all together 
and boil about one and one-half hours. In tying up, 
leave but little room to swell. Serve with sauce. 

SUNDERLAND PUDDING 

Five eggs, six large tablespoons flour, a little salt. 
Mix eggs and flour together with a little milk until 
perfectly smooth, then add more milk, making a thin 
batter, and beat well. Fill the cups two thirds full, 
and bake immediately in a hot oven. It is difficult to 
give the exact quantity of milk, as flour varies a little, 
but the receipt calls for nearly a quart. 

RENNET CUSTARD (Slip) 
Three pints milk, warmed and sweetened, with nut- 
meg or any flavoring preferred. To this add one table- 
spoon rennetwine and set it away to cool. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE 

Stew the apples and sweeten to taste. Add a little 
lemon or any spice preferred. Rub the mold well 
with butter and line with bread crumbs. Then add 
the apples and cover over with bread crumbs and small 
pieces of butter. Bake from half to three quarters of 
an hour. Serve hot with wine sauce, or cream if pre- 
ferred. 

MARLBOROUGH PUDDING (Very old receipt) 

Fourteen tablespoons stewed sour apple, ten table- 
spoons butter, twelve tablespoons sugar, six eggs 
beaten separately, twelve teaspoons wine. To be 
baked in a paste. 



36 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 



LEMON PUDDING 

Boil one pint of milk, crumble stale bread into it 
sufficient to thicken the milk. Grate the peel of two 
lemons, and add the juice of one. Butter size of an egg, 
two or three eggs and sugar to taste. Bake in a crust. 

ORANGE PUDDING 

Take four good-sized oranges; squeeze them and 
strain the juice. Yolks of five eggs well beaten, butter 
the size of an egg, melted. Mix all well together and 
sweeten with white sugar to taste. Take the rind of 
the oranges and put in a saucepan with a little water. 
Let simmer till quite soft, then strain off the water and 
pound in a mortar till in a paste. Mix this well with 
other ingredients. Bake in a crust. 

MOCK MINCE PIES 

Three Boston crackers rolled fine, one and one-half cups 
cold water, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, two-thirds 
cup vinegar, one cup chopped raisins, a few whole 
raisins (if yoa choose, instead of the vinegar, put 
part lemon juice and a little orange and lemon peel 
grated), one-half cup butter or chopped suet melted 
in one-half cup hot water, one-half teaspoon each of 
black pepper, salt, and clove, two teaspoons cinnamon, 
one nutmeg. This makes three pies. 

HUCKLEBERRY PIE 

One pound berries, ten ounces sugar, butter size of a 
walnut, two teaspoons cinnamon, a little nutmeg and 
salt, heaping teaspoon flour. Bake in a crust. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 37 

ONEIDA PUMPKIN PIE 

One pint pumpkin or squash, stewed until quite dry 
and rubbed through a sieve, one quart milk, one-half 
pint cream, one-half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon each 
of cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg, two teaspoons ginger, 
three tablespoons brown sugar, one tablespoon molasses, 
five well-beaten eggs; or if eggs are scarce one table- 
spoon cornstarch mixed in a little cold milk will take 
the place of two eggs. If yoa cannot get cream, melt a 
bit of butter, size of a hickory nut, in a half-pint milk. 
Always stir in the milk last. 

SQUASH PUDDING (Salem) 

Two bowls squash, one and one-half bowls milk, one 
bowl sugar, six eggs, rind and juice of three lemons, 
one-half cup butter, four groat biscuit. Bake in a 
crust. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

For one pie: One cup pumpkin, two eggs, yolks and 
whites beaten separately, five tablespoons sugar, one 
teaspoon cinnamon (a little more than level), one tea- 
spoon ginger, one-quarter grated nutmeg, a little salt, 
one cup milk stirred in last. The day before it is 
needed for the pie, stew the pumpkin very thoroughly 
until it is perfectly soft. Mash it with potato-masher, 
and rub through sieve. 

CANNED PUMPKIN PIE 

One quart canned pumpkin, stewed down quite dry 
(this must, of course, be done the day before baking). 



38 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

one quart rich milk, five eggs beaten separately, one 
tablespoon ginger, or less, according to taste, one-half 
teaspoon cinnamon or cassia, and mace or nutmeg, one 
tablespoon common molasses to give a good color, a 
pinch of salt, and sugar to taste, probably at least 
a cup of sugar. 

BAVARIAN CREAM 

One pint of sweet cream made very cold, small wine- 
glass of wine, powdered sugar to make it palatable. 
Beat it in a pitcher or stone jar with an egg beater 
until quite thick. 

CINDERELLAS, OR GERMAN PUFFS 

Sift eight tablespoons of finest flour. Cut up in a 
quart of rich milk half a pound of butter, and set it 
near the fire till it is melted. Beat eight eggs very 
light and stir them gradually into the milk and butter, 
alternately with the flour. Add one grated nutmeg 
and one teaspoon powdered cinnamon. Mix the whole 
very well, to a fine, smooth batter in which there must 
be no lumps. Butter some large teacups and divide 
the mixture among them until they are about half full. 
Set them immediately into a quick oven, and bake 
about fifteen minutes. When done turn them into a 
dish and grate white sugar over them. Serve hot, with 
sweetened cream flavored with wine and nutmeg, or 
with sugar and wine. Serve them whole, for they will 
fall almost as soon as cut. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 39 

MINCE MEAT (Very old and valuable) 

One beef tongue, which may weigh four or five pounds, 
five pounds sour apples, two pounds suet, one pint 
brandy, one-half pint wine, one quart and one pint 
pleasant cider, three pounds sugar, one-half pint molasses, 
six heaping tablespoons powdered cinnamon, four full 
teaspoons cloves, four full teaspoons pepper, two full 
teaspoons salt, two nutmegs, two teaspoons powdered 
mace, two and one-half pounds raisins, add a little 
citron and currants. This mince can be kept many 
weeks in a covered jar, but it will be necessary to add 
a little brandy or wine when you propose to bake it, 
after it has stood long. A little cream added when 
prepared for baking seems to soften the flavor of the 
mixture. 

KENTUCKY MINCE MEAT 

Four pounds fresh tongue, three pounds suet, eight 
pounds chopped apple, three pounds dried currants, 
four pounds seeded raisins, six pounds white sugar, two 
pounds citron cut small, four lemons (grated peel and 
juice), one ounce powdered cinnamon, one-quarter ounce 
powdered cloves, one-quarter ounce powdered allspice, 
four nutmegs grated, one pint Madeira wine, one quart 
boiled cider, one quart brandy. Boil the tongue in 
salted water until tender; when cold, chop fine. After 
removing every particle of membrane from suet, chop 
fine and mix with tongue. Salt enough to remove the 
fresh taste. To this add the apple, after which the 
other ingredients. Mix all ivell together and cover close. 
If too dry moisten with a little sweet cider. 



40 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

HANNAH'S MINCE MEAT 

Three large lemons, three large sour apples, one 
pound stoned raisins, one pound currants, one pound 
suet, two pounds coffee sugar, one ounce each of candied 
citron, orange and lemon peel, one cup brandy, two 
tablespoons orange marmalade, one teaspoon ground 
cinnamon. Grate rind of lemons, squeeze out juice 
and strain it. Boil the pulpy part of the lemons, chop 
ver}^ fine and add to the apples. Peel, core, and bake 
the apples. Chop suet and raisins very fine, and cut 
the candied fruit fine. This should be prepared and 
allowed to stand two or three weeks before use. 

FLANNEL CAKES (S. W. W.) 

One quart sifted flour a little heaped, two-thirds quart 
of milk warmed, with a lump of biitter size of a butter- 
nut melted in it. When lukewarm stir slowly into the 
flour, being careful to stir out all lumps. Add the yolks, 
well beaten, of two eggs, and the white of one egg. One- 
half cake Fleischman's yeast, dissolved in four table- 
spoons water, and a little salt. If wanted for luncheon, 
mix at 7 a.m., set in a warm place, and it will be 
light by one o'clock. If for supper, set before 12 m. 
They should be fried the size of a breakfast -plate, 
buttered and sugared and sent to table hot, four in a 
pile to cut like pie. 

CORN MUFFINS 

One cup corn meal, one-half cup wheat flour, one 
and one-half cups sour milk, one-half teaspoon soda, 
one egg beaten, one tablespoon sugar, two tablespoons 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 41 

melted butter. Mix all but the butter, egg, and soda 
over night, beat them in well in the morning, and 
bake in muffin-rings on a griddle. 

YANKEE SHORTCAKE 

One pound sifted flour with one-quarter pound butter 
rubbed in. Wet with cold water stiff enough to roll 
out in sheets. Bake in square tins, scoring across like 
diamonds. This is better baked before the fire than in 
the oven. A nice way is to cut it in small cakes, and 
put two together, one on top of the other before baking. 
For dessert, spread fruit or jam or jelly between the 
layers. If for tea or luncheon, cut in round cakes, half- 
inch thick, and when baked split open and spread with 
butter and put together again. This is good for pie- 
crust, adding one-half pound lard. 

DRESSING FOR SALAD 

Yolk of one raw egg, stir in slowly four tablespoons 
olive oil, one tablespoon vinegar; add salt and mustard 
to suit the taste. Stir it all slowly, and pour it over 
the salad just before serving. 

DRESSING FOR COLD SLAW (i) 

Two eggs well beaten, six tablespoons cream, one 
teaspoon each of salt, pepper, and mustard, four tea- 
spoons sugar, one-half teaspoon celery seed, six table- 
spoons vinegar, one tablespoon butter. Mix these 
ingredients together with a little of the egg, then put all 
together. Have the vinegar hot in a pail of hot water, 



42 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

and stir the mixture in slowly. Cook until it thickens. 
When cold pour over the cabbage. 

DRESSING FOR COLD SLAW (2) 

Beat two eggs in a bowl that will fit over your tea- 
kettle. Add one gill of water and vinegar mixed, one 
ounce butter, one teaspoon each of salt and sugar. Set 
it over the boiling kettle and stir until thicker than 
boiled custard. When cold pour over the sliced cabbage. 

DRESSED CABBAGE 

Chop cabbage till fine; beat an egg; add one teaspoon 
each of pepper, salt, sugar, mustard, and butter. Stir 
them well together and scald with sufficient vinegar to 
moisten a dish of the cabbage. Double the quantity 
may be prepared at one time, like chicken salad. 

SAUCE HOLLANDAISE 

Put a piece of butter size of a pigeon's egg into a 
saucepan, and when it bubbles stir in, with an egg whisk 
or spoon, an even tablespoon of flour. Let it continue 
to bubble until the flour is thoroughly cooked, when 
stir in one-half pint boiling water, or, better, veal stock. 
When it boils take from the fire, and stir into it grad- 
ually the beaten yolks of two eggs. Return sauce to 
the fire for a minute, to set the eggs, without allowing 
it to boil. Again remove the sauce, stir in juice of half 
a small lemon, and fresh butter size of a walnut, cut into 
small pieces to facilitate its melting, and stir all well 
with the whisk or egg beater. This is good for cauli- 
flower, artichokes, asparagus, and boiled fish. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 43 

DESSERT SAUCE FOR CAKE (Rachel's receipt) 

One cup butter and two cups sugar stirred to a cream, 
one egg thoroughly beaten and mixed with these, one 
small teacup of scalded wine stirred in. Boil the whole 
for a few minutes and then pour into the boat in which 
it is to remain. This sauce is very nice with any kind 
of cake for dessert. 

WINE SAUCE 

One-half cup butter and one and one-half cups sugar 
rubbed to a cream. Mix one-half wineglass of water 
with one glass wine and let boil; then pour it on the 
butter and sugar. Do not stir until it is sent to table. 

RICH WINE SAUCE 

Butter size of a hen's egg, with one cup sugar. Mix 
them thoroughly and add four tablespoons milk, a 
teaspoon at a time, and stir about an hour. Then let 
simmer over the fire without stirring until butter and 
sugar are melted. Pour one-half wineglass of wine 
into a boat with a little nutmeg. Mix all together for 
the table. 

WINE SAUCE 

One cup sugar, yolk of one egg, one-half cup butter, 
teaspoon of flour, all rubbed well together, one cup 
water. Boil the whole for a few minutes, and when 
done add one wineglass wine. 

WINE SAUCE (Easy and good) 
One cup sugar, one -half cup butter, one cup wine. 



44 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

BLUEBERRY CAKE 

Two eggs, three-quarters cup butter, one cup sugar, 
two scant cups flour, one and one-half teaspoons baking 
powder, one cup milk, one cup blueberries. Beat butter, 
sugar, and eggs together. Add flour and baking powder 
slowly, then the milk, and last the fruit which must 
be well dried and rubbed in flour. 

COTTAGE PUDDING (J. B. M.) 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup milk, one 
pint flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one egg. 

MUSH, OR HASTY PUDDING (Mrs. Miller) 

One quart water, one teaspoon salt, one half pint 
corn meal heaped, and one scant gill wheat flour 
which should be mixed smoothly with cold water. Put 
water and salt over the fire; when hot, not boiling, take 
out half a pint and mix it with the corn meal, and when 
the water boils fast, pour this in and stir until it thickens , 
then let it boil slowly, uncovered, for an hour. A good 
dish for lunch or a country tea. It may be eaten hot 
with butter and syrup, or partly cool with milk or cream. 

" SPANISH OMELET " 

" Four thin slices of bacon fried until crisp. Drain 
them from the fat, add two tablespoons of minced onion 
and cook in the hot fat until yellow. Add also two ripe 
tomatoes, and one tablespoon green pepper freed from 
seeds and chopped fine. Let them cook slowly without 
scorching, while you beat four eggs slightly. Add a 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 45 

little salt and four tablespoons of hot water. Put one 
teaspoon of butter in a hot omelet pan, turn in the 
mixture and draw the cooked portion towards the 
center as it thickens. When all the egg is firm, skim 
out the vegetable mixture and put it in the center, add 
the crisp bacon finely crumbled, fold the other half of 
the omelet over, and turn out on a hot platter. This 
is one of the most delicious and satisfactory of the great 
variety of fancy omelets." 

CHICKEN SALAD 

Two yolks of eggs, one-quarter teaspoon salt; add oil 
drop by drop. If you choose, add later one-quarter 
teaspoon dry mustard to one-half pint olive oil. If 
you fear the oil and egg separating, add a few drops of 
tarragon vinegar or lemon juice. When sufficiently 
light, add tablespoon of vinegar or lemon juice and dust 
in grain of red pepper. Cut your chicken ; use one-third 
less celery than chicken, or one part chicken and two 
parts celery. Mix meat and celery together, sprinkle 
on it salt and pepper, and then mix in the oil dressing, 
but keep the three parts separate until you are ready to 
use the salad. Garnish with celery tops and capers. 

SAUCE TARTARE 

With the above oil dressing use capers, gherkins, or 
olives. Chop fine and stir in. Squeeze juice of parsley. 

CHICKEN SALAD 

Take one large chicken and boil until tender. Sepa- 
rate the meat from the skin, fat, etc., and chop the dark 



46 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

meat quite fine. The white meat, cut in larger pieces 
with a sharp knife. Use by measure about equal 
quantities of celery and chicken, cutting celery with a 
knife, not very fine. If you are obliged to use the stump, 
shave it thin and then chop. For this amount take 
three eggs and beat them very thoroughly, whites and 
yolks together. One-half cup mixed mustard, one tea- 
spoon salt, a very little cayenne, and about half of a 
small teacup of sharp vinegar with a teaspoon of sugar 
dissolved in it. Beat the mustard and one teacup of 
olive oil thoroughly together in an earthen dish. Then 
add the eggs, then the cayenne, then the vinegar. Put 
into it about an ounce of butter, set the dish over a 
kettle of boiling water, and stir constantly until it is as 
thick as paste. Mix the salad, stir into it black pepper 
and salt to taste and one cup of cream. Then mix it 
with the paste, leaving some to pour over it. This is 
enough for ten persons. 

A NICE SALAD FOR LUNCH OR IN THE COURSE OF 
A DINNER (Cheese Salad) 

Make a little nest of lettuce leaves. Put three little 
eggs of cream cheese in the middle, a spoonful of mayon- 
naise under and over them, and dust some lobster-coral 
to make them look well. In preparing the eggs: Put 
a cream cheese in a bowl and make it soft with your 
hands, add little salt and a shake of cayenne. Wash 
your hands in hot water, then in cold water, and dry 
thoroughly. Take a little cheese at a time and roll in 
small round balls, and use as told above. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 47 

TOMATO SALAD 

One can tomatoes, one-half box gelatine, one-half an 
onion, red pepper to taste, one bay leaf, two tablespoons 
sugar, salt to taste. Put the above in a saucepan and 
boil slowly for one hour. Strain through a hair sieve. 
Pour into a mold. When cool, put on ice eight or ten 
hours. Serve with mayonnaise in lettuce cups and 
leaves. 

CHEESE CAKES 

One-quarter pound Parmesan cheese, one-quarter 
pound butter, one-quarter pound flour. Put cheese in 
bowl, mix butter with it very thoroughly with your 
hand, a shake of salt and cayenne pepper, then add the 
flour very thoroughly. Roll out on a floured board as 
quickly as you can, with roller. Cut with biscuit cutter 
and bake in quick oven. For the second pan gather 
fragments together, and add a very little water, to make 
them mix. Roll out quickly as above. Serve these 
with tomato or any other salad. 

" SARDINES IN BREAD SHELLS " 

" Cut inch-thick slices of bread with a round cutter, 
two inches in diameter. Scoop out a little cavity in each 
and fry them a delicate brown in hot butter, or spread 
all over with softened butter and toast them in the oven. 
Melt one round tablespoon of butter in a saucepan ; add 
one level teaspoon of flour, and when mixed, add one- 
half cup of boiling water, and stir until thick and 
smooth. Add one tablespoon of essence of anchovy, 



48 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

or one of any favorite table sauce, a little salt, and shake 
of cayenne. Remove the skin and bones from one 
dozen sardines, mash them to a paste with a fork, add- 
ing the sifted yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and lemon 
juice to taste. Fill the bread shells with the mixture, 
arrange them^on a hot dish, and pour the hot sauce over 
and around them." 



Chapter III 
BREADS 



WHITE BREAD (Annie Rooney) 

Scald one quart of milk. Add one pint of boiling water, 
one tablespoon salt, two tablespoons sugar, one table- 
spoon lard, one tablespoon butter, one yeast cake 
dissolved in one-quarter cup lukewarm water. Add 
flour enough to make a stiff dough; knead well. Let it 
rise over night. In the morning, knead into loaves; 
let rise until light. Bake in moderate oven from three 
quarters to one hour. If rolls are needed, take part of 
same dough, mold into any shape desired, and bake in 
hot oven twenty minutes. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD 

Dissolve one yeast cake in two tablespoons tepid 
water. Put into a bowl one pint milk; add to it one 
pint boiling water, and let stand until it is lukewarm; 
then add the dissolved yeast, one teaspoon salt, and 
enough whole wheat flour to make a thick batter. (The 
batter should drop, not run, off the spoon.) Beat this 
batter with a spoon for fifteen minutes. It becomes 
quite soft and liquid by beating. Add enough more 
flour to make a dough ; turn it on to the board and knead 
it for a few minutes. Let rise over night. In the morn- 



50 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

ing mold into loaves. Let it rise again. Then bake 
in a moderate oven, from three quarters to one hour. 



MORETON FARM BROWN BREAD 

Two quarts graham flour, one quart white flour, 
one-half cup yeast or one-half yeast cake, one scant 
tablespoon salt, one-half cup brown sugar, enough warm 
water to make a stiff batter. Beat with a spoon for 
fifteen minutes, and when well mixed, set it to rise. It 
will rise in a warm place in four hours if the yeast is 
good, and must therefore be left in rather a cool place 
if left to rise over night. When raised, mix with it 
one teaspoon soda dissolved in warm water, and flour 
enough to shape it into loaves, but be careful not to 
get it too stiff. Let it rise again for half an hour, and 
bake slowly for a little more than an hour. Make the 
loaves small. 

INDIAN LOAF (H. M. H.) 

One pint Indian meal, one pint flour, one pint sour 
milk, one-half cup shortening, one-half cup molasses, 
one teaspoon salt, one small tablespoon soda. Butter 
a two-quart basin, put it in, set it in a steamer, leave it 
one hour, then bake half an hour. Serve hot. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT (Mrs. Miller) 

One pound flour, one ounce butter, and two ounces 
lard (which must be sweet and firm), three gills sweet 
milk, one teaspoon salt, five teaspoons baking powder 



A 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 51 

(this must be taken up in the teaspoon, sHghtly pressed 
and made even by passing the side of the knife-blade 
directly over it). Put it with half a gill of the flour and 
sift it into the rest of the flour through a very fine sieve. 
Mix thoroughly, then rub the butter, lard, and salt 
through the flour until quite fine. Pour in the milk, 
mix lightly, place it on the floured board, and roll out 
without any kneading. Cut, prick, and bake in a quick 
oven. 

RAISED BISCUIT (i) 

Four pints flour, one tablespoon lard, one-half pint 
milk, a little salt, one-half pint water. Stir this up with 
two tablespoons yeast or one -half yeast cake. Stir this 
stiff over night, work it over in the morning, and bake 
when light. 

RAISED BISCUIT (2) (Canadian receipt) 

One-half cake compressed yeast, or one-half cup 
liquid yeast, one cup scalded milk, one cup cold milk, 
one cup shortening (butter or lard), the beaten white 
of one egg, a little salt and sugar, sufficient flour to make 
a light dough. Beat well with spoon and set to rise. 
When quite light, beat again and let rise again. Then 
roll thin and cut into small biscuits. Bake in quick 
oven. 

RAISED BISCUIT (3) 

Boil and mash four or five potatoes. Add flour, 
water, and one cup of good yeast to make a quart of 
sponge. Place in a warm room at evening; it should 



52 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

be very light in the morning. Then stir in a tablespoon 
of pulverized sugar, and enough sifted flour to make a 
thick batter. Let it stand until quite light. Add two 
small cups of butter rubbed in flour, and two well-beaten 
eggs. Mix all together, make soft and mold well. 
Roll out, cut, and let the biscuit rise in the pans twenty 
or thirty minutes. Bake twenty-five or thirty minutes 
in a quick oven. This quantity will make a hundred 
biscuits. 

" HELEN'S ROLLS " 

One -half pint water, one -half pint milk, one pint flour. 
Beat together with egg beater and pour into gem pans 
that are very hot. Bake in very hot oven. 

" PARKER HOUSE " ROLLS 

One quart flour, one ounce lard, one-half pint milk, 
one-half gill of yeast or one-quarter of a yeast cake in 
one-half cup warm water, one-half tablespoon sugar, one- 
half teaspoon salt. In the evening put the flour in a 
bowl. Put salt and lard in the milk and warm until the 
lard is melted. When the milk is lukewarm, add the 
yeast and pour into the center of the flour. Mix it to a 
thin batter, cover and leave it in the cellar. In the 
morning, work it thoroughly and let it rise. Two hours 
before tea, roll it out two-thirds of an inch thick, cut 
with a tin cutter four inches across. With a feather, 
coat half of the top with melted butter and lap it nearly 
over the other half, then draw them out a little to make 
them roll-shaped. Lay them apart in buttered pans, 
and when light, bake. If they are wanted for lunch, 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 53 

mix about noon of the day before, and at bedtime 
" work it thoroughly and let it rise." 

BREAD STICKS 

One cake of compressed yeast dissolved in one-half 
cup warm water, one teaspoon sugar, one tablespoon 
flour. Add the above to one cup of milk mixed with 
one cup hot water, or two cups warm water, one teaspoon 
butter, one teaspoon salt. Thicken with flour and beat 
fifteen minues. Then add more flour to make it stiff 
enough to knead. Turn out on board, knead until it 
ceases to stick, place in bowl in temperature 75 degrees 
for three hours. Knead again. Make into long, thin 
sticks, or to fit bread-stick pans. Let rise ten minutes, 
brush with melted butter and bake ten minutes. 

CORN BREAD 

One cup corn meal, one cup flour, one and one-half 
teaspoons baking powder, two teaspoons sugar, one- 
half teaspoon salt, one egg, beaten with one cup milk, 
one tablespoon of any kind of shortening. Mix in the 
order given. Bake twenty minutes. 

CONNECTICUT CORN BREAD 

One pint sour milk, beaten yolks of four eggs, one 
tablespoon Indian meal, briskly stirring the mixture 
while adding the meal. To this add one-half teaspoon 
soda, one tablespoon melted butter, whites of eggs 
beaten to a froth. Then sufficient meal to form a 
smooth batter consistency of hasty-padding. Bake 
in brisk oven. 



54 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

CORN BREAD (Rose) 

Beat up one egg, add to it one tablespoon sugar, 
pinch of salt, one-half cup milk, three-quarters cup corn 
meal, one cup flour, in which is sifted two teaspoons 
baking powder. Add one-half cup more of milk; beat 
all very thoroughly, and lastly add two tablespoons 
melted butter. Pour into dripping pan, and bake about 
half an hour. 

SOFT WAFFLES 

Stir into one quart of flour enough milk to make a 
stiff batter; one tablespoon melted butter, two well- 
beaten eggs, salt, one-half cup yeast, or one-half yeast 
cake. 

SOUR MILK GRIDDLE CAKES 

One quart thick sour milk. Stir in flour until it is 
quite stiff. Add a little salt. When the griddle is hot 
dissolve one teaspoon soda in a little water, stir it in 
quickly and bake. 

INDLA.N GRIDDLE CAKES 

One cup very fine Indian meal, scalded; let it stand to 
cool a little. Soften with milk. Add one small cup 
flour, two eggs, salt. Fry on hot griddle. 

BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES WITH MILK (Mrs. Putnam) 

Soak pieces of stale bread in milk until they are soft, 
season it with a little salt and sugar. Put four eggs to 
a pint of milk and as much bread as will make a thick 
batter. Bake on a griddle. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 55 

BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES WITH WATER 

Soak pieces of stale bread in cold water until quite 
soft; turn them into a sieve and drain out all the water; 
then rub bread through a colander. To about a quart of 
this add three eggs, a little salt, and as much milk as 
will make a thick batter. Bake on a griddle and serve 
very hot. 

SHORTCAKE (New London) 

Two quarts flour, one small teaspoon cream of tartar 
to every pint of flour, and two teaspoons soda. Rub 
both well into the flour, or use equal quantity baking 
powder, one cup butter, also rubbed into the flour, one 
and one-third pints milk, salt. Stir up quickly and roll 
out as soft as you can. Bake in two bread pans. 

MUFFINS 

Three pints flour, one pint water lukewarm, one cup 

baker's yeast or one yeast cake, one tablespoon sugar, 

one teaspoon salt. Make them up in the morning for 

tea, or at night for breakfast, and bake them in muffln 

rings. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS 

One cup graham flour, one-half cup white flour, one 
and one-half teaspoons baking powder, one egg well 
beaten, one heaping tablespoon butter, one tablespoon 
sugar, one teaspoon salt. This makes twelve muffins. 
Use '' Glenn Mills " graham flour. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS 

Beat as many eggs as needed in an earthen dish. Add 
three more tablespoons of milk than there are eggs. 



56 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

Butter the size of small egg, salt and pepper. Stir con- 
stantly while cooking on top of stove. 



BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

One pint Indian meal scalded in boiling water. Pour 
in the water a little at a time, stirring it smooth. Let 
it stand until cool. Add one quart buckwheat flour, a 
scoopful wheat flour, one tablespoon salt, two yeast 
cakes. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES (Flora) 

Into one quart warm water stir one yeast cake and 
wheat flour enough for a thick batter. Let it rise for 
several hours. At bedtime stir this thick with buck- 
wheat flour. In the morning add one teaspoon soda, 
well dissolved, and one heaping tablespoon brown sugar. 
This will last a week, adding every night a little more 
buckwheat and the soda and sugar in the morning. 
Cold buckwheat cakes may be returned to the batter 
and the acid will dissolve them. 



INDIAN BREAD 

Two thirds Indian meal, one third coarse flour. Pour 
boiling water on meal and let stand until cool. Then 
put in yeast and a little salt. Make it so that it can be 
stirred with a spoon. Let it rise, and when light put 
in the flour and one tablespoon molasses, one-half cup 
sour cream with one-half teaspoon soda. Bake two 
and one-half hours. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 57 

SALLY LUNN (i) 

Sift one-half pound of flour into a pan. Make a hole 
in the middle and put in two ounces of butter warmed 
in a pint of milk, a saltspoon of salt, three well-beaten 
eggs, two tablespoons best fresh yeast or one-half yeast 
cake. Mix flour well into the other ingredients and put 
the whole into a square tin pan that has been greased 
with butter. Cover and set in a warm place, and when 
light bake in a moderate oven. Send to table hot, to 
be eaten with butter. 

SALLY LUNN (2) 

One and one-half pounds flour, two ounces butter, 
three eggs well beaten, one pint warm milk, three or 
four tablespoons yeast, one-half teaspoon salt. 

PLAIN OMELET 

Take six eggs, beat yolks and whites separately and 
very light. Heat the spider very hot. Put in a piece 
of butter size of a walnut. Add to your yolks pepper 
and salt and about three-quarters cup of milk, then the 
whites, and stir all together lightly and pour into the 
spider. Set into a very hot oven and bake three or 
four minutes. The secret of success with it is to have 
the spider and the oven very hot and to bake quickly. 

POPOVERS 

Two cups flour, two cups milk, three eggs, one-half 
teaspoon salt. Grease gem pans and put in oven to get 
very hot. Beat eggs without separating until very 
light, and add to them the milk and salt. Pour this 



58 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

gradually on the flour, stirring all the while. Do not 
add too rapidly, or the batter will be so liquid that it 
cannot be beaten smooth. Strain through a sieve, to 
remove any little lumps that may remain. Take the 
gem pans from the oven, quickly fill them half full of 
this mixture, put them in a quick oven, and bake about 
twenty-five minutes. 

ROSE'S POPOVERS 

Two eggs (beat good and hard), pinch of salt, even cup 
of milk. Take half of the milk, pour it on egg and salt, 
add one even cup sifted flour; beat hard; add remainder 
of milk. Beat all very thoroughly, put in well-greased 
tins, and bake about twenty minutes. 

JONES'S BUNS (Canadian) 

One pound flour, a little salt, one-quarter pound butter, 
two eggs well beaten, one-half pint warm milk, three- 
quarters cup hop yeast. Mix all together; set to rise 
for three hours; then add one-quarter pound sugar, 
currants, and seasoning to taste. Put in patty pans, 
and let stand until light. Bake in quick oven. 

DOUGHNUTS (i) 

Three pints flour, butter size of an egg, one cup sugar, 
one egg, small bowlful of milk or water, four teaspoons 
baking powder. Flavor with nutmeg or cinnamon. 
The dough made in this way will be thin. Sprinkle 
flour enough over it and on the kneading board to roll 
it out nicely. Do not handle more than necessary. 
Cut the cakes with biscuit cutter, then insert a knife 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 59 

at edge of the cake, until its point is at the center. Take 
out knife, press a raisin into center of cake. Press and 
flatten the cake and cut it again with cutter. Fry in 
perfectly clear hot lard, and when done sift powdered 
sugar over them. The bowl used for measure holds a 
little more than a coffee cup does. 

DOUGHNUTS (2) 
Six cups light dough, two cups sugar, one cup lard, 
one egg, a little soda, salt, and cinnamon. 

CONNECTICUT DOUGHNUTS (3) (Good) 
Make a sponge with one pint milk, small teacup yeast 
Dr one-half yeast cake, flour enough to make a thick 
batter. When light, add two cups sugar, one cup lard 
pr butter, four eggs, two teaspoons cinnamon, one tea- 
spoon salt. Roll out the dough until about one-half 
'inch thick. Let it rise about twenty minutes, before 
(boiling in lard. 
i DOUGHNUTS (4) 

1 Three eggs, two cups sugar, butter size of an egg, one 
teaspoon soda, one cup milk, one nutmeg, four cups of 
flour. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD (S. E. C.) 

Three-quarters pound flour, seven ounces butter, seven 
[)tinces sugar, one and one-half gills molasses, one and 
bne-half gills thick sour milk, one tablespoon ginger, one 
teaspoon soda dissolved in tablespoon boiling water, 
three eggs. Soften the butter and beat it with the 
;ugar until light. Stir in gradually the molasses and 



6o The Genesee Valley Cook Book \ 

ginger, then the milk and the well-beaten eggs, and half 
of the sifted flour, then the soda and the rest of the flour. 
This is very nice baked in round gem pans, particularly 
if it is to be eaten hot. 

FAIRY GINGERBREAD (H. L. H.) 

One cup powdered sugar, one cup butter, two eggs 
beaten separately. Beat whites very stiff. One and 
one-half tablespoons ginger, flour enough to be able to 
spread with a knife on fiat tin as thin as possible. 

THIN MOLASSES GINGERBREAD (M. L. P.) 
One-half cup butter, one-half cup sugar, one teaspoon 
soda dissolved in one-half cup of warm water, one table- 
spoon ginger, one cup molasses, and flour enough to 
roll out thin. 

THIN GINGERBREAD (M. L. P.) 

Two and one-half pounds flour, one and one-quarter 
pounds sugar, one and one-half pounds butter, one tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in one-half wineglass of rose 
water or warm water, one -half cup ginger, six eggs. 

CREAM GINGERBREAD 

Two cups cream, two cups molasses, two eggs, two 
teaspoons soda, one tablespoon salt, four cups sifted 
flour, ginger and cinnamon to taste; a little lard is an 
improvement. Bake half an hour. 

HOP YEAST 

One large handful fresh hops in cheese-cloth bag, 
three good-sized potatoes. Boil together in three 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 6i 

quarts water. Strain and add to the water one pint 
flour. Beat together until smooth; add one tablespoon 
■sugar, one teaspoon salt, same of ginger. When cool, 
add one-half cup good yeast or one-half yeast cake. 
Let rise for twenty -four hours before bottling. 

POTATO YEAST (Without flour) 

Pare and cut in slices twelve good-sized potatoes. 
'Boil in two or three quarts of water (in a porcelain vessel) 
with a handful of hops tied in a thin cloth or muslin. 
Mash and strain through a colander while hot, add the 
water in which it was boiled, also a cup of sugar, and 
one-half cup of salt. When cool enough stir in a pint 
of good yeast. Place in a jar or jug. When light, or 
after twenty-four hours, cork tightly or cover closely. 
This yeast will keep good as long as it will last. 

OATMEAL GRUEL 

Put in a farina boiler one quart milk and water, and 
let come to a scald. Then dust in one tablespoon oat 
meal and boil forty minutes. Strain and add salt. 

MILK TOAST (Mrs. Putnam) 

Put half a pound of butter into a tin toast pan; 
dredge on a little flour and rub it in with a spoon; turn 
on a teacup ful of boiling water, stirring it all the time; 
then add three gills of milk or cream, and stir it until it 
boils up once. Toast the bread a light brown; dip it 
while it is hot, one piece at a time; lay them in the dish 
and over each piece put a large spoonful of the dip. 
When the dish is filled, pour the dip over the whole. 



62 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

SOUR MILK BISCUIT (Mrs. Putnam) 

One quart of flour, one pint sour milk, one teaspoon 
soda mixed into the milk until it froths. Stir it into the 
flour cold; mix it quickly; roll it about an inch thick; 
cut it with a biscuit cutter. Bake in a quick oven. 

BANNOCK (C. H. L.) 

One and one-half pints Indian meal, scald with hot 
water; one pint of milk, one and one-half tablespoons 
sugar, butter one-half size of an egg, one egg, a little 
salt. Bake in quick oven. 

DRIPPING FOR THE FRYING PAN 
(From Mrs. Putnam's new receipt book) 

The dripping of beef and pork, clarified, is very nice 
to fry in, instead of lard or butter. To clarify it, put 
the drippings into an iron pot. To a quart of fat, 
allow half a pint of cold water; let it boil until the water 
is boiled out, which may be known by its not bubbling. 
When the water has evaporated, strain it into an earthen 
pot, and keep it in a cool place for use. 

CRULLERS (i) 
One egg, one tablespoon melted butter, one tablespoon 
sugar, a little nutmeg or cinnamon, one tablespoon milk, 
one-quarter teaspoon soda, sufficient flour to roll out. 
Cut and fry in hot lard as you would doughnuts. 

CRULLERS (2) 
One pound sugar, ten ounces butter, twelve eggs, 
one teaspoon soda, one glass brandy, nutmeg, flour 
enough to mix it to a soft paste. Fry in hot lard. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 63 



ROSE'S COOKIES 

One cup sugar, one-half cup milk, two eggs, three- 
quarters cup butter, three cups flour, three teaspoons 
baking powder, a little nutmeg. Beat all together 
with Dover egg beater. 

TEA CAKE 

, One quart flour, three teaspoons baking powder, two 
J tablespoons sugar, three eggs, one-quarter cup butter, 

I one pint sweet milk, pinch of salt as it goes in the oven. 
Bake in square tins and cut like corn bread (or, bake in 
muffin rings) for three quarters of an hour. 

QUAKER OATS CAKES 

I 

'1 One cup granulated sugar, one large tablespoon 

'•] butter ; cream these thoroughly together ; two eggs 

i beaten very light, add to butter and sugar. Two and 

h one-half cups of vincooked Quaker Rolled Oats mixed 

1^ with one teaspoon baking powder. Stir this slowly into 

Pi the mixture and add one teaspoon of vanilla. Drop 

Ifrom a teaspoon on well-buttered tins, not too close 

(together, as they spread. Bake in quick oven, from 

'five to seven minutes. In dropping, do not make the 

I I teaspoon too full, as the cakes are better thin. 

OATMEAL MUFFINS (Cooking School) 

Mix one cup of cooked oatmeal with a generous pint 
}of flour. Add one teaspoon salt, one-quarter cup sugar. 
Dissolve one-quarter of a yeast cake in one-quarter cup 
jof lukewarm water; add this, with three-quarters cup 
lof milk scalded and cooled. Beat well. Let rise over 



64 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

night. Beat again and put in gem pans on back of 
stove. Let them rise twenty minutes. Bake thirty- 
minutes in moderate oven. 

HOE CAKE 

Two quarts Indian meal; scald in boiling water to 
make a thin batter. Two tablespoons butter, one table- 
spoon salt. Bake, one inch thick, in quick oven, half 
an hour. 

WATER MUFFINS (C. H. L.) 

One quart water, one and one-half quarts flour, one- 
half cup yeast, a little salt. 

BREAKFAST CAKE (" Nantucket Receipts ") 

Two cups flour, two eggs, one-third cup sugar, one 

cup milk, three teaspoons baking powder. Mix quickly, 

and bake about twenty minutes in a shallow pan; or 

this may be baked like muffins, in small round cake tins. 

SPONGE RUSK 

One tumbler of milk, one cup of yeast or one-half 
yeast cake, three cups flour, three eggs, made into a 
batter over night. In the morning add one cup sugar, 
piece of butter the size of an egg, flour until sufficiently 
stiff to mold. Then butter your dishes, and when light 
cover the surface with white of an egg and sugar. 

SCONES 

Two cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one 
teaspoon salt, one-half cup butter, two tablespoons 
sugar, one egg well beaten, one-half cup seedless raisins 
or currants. Mix thoroughly; roll one-half inch thick, 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 65 

cut into rounds, and bake in oven or on hot griddle. 
When done split open, spread with butter and serve on 
plate covered with doily, in the place of sandwiches for 
afternoon tea or at luncheon. 

DUTCH PUFFET (R. B. S.) 

One pint milk, one cup white sugar, three eggs, one- 
half cup 3^east or one-half yeast cake, one cup butter 
(one teaspoon soda) , flour enough to make a spoon stand 
up in it. Bake three quarters of an hour. Directions 
for mixing: If wanted for tea, make the puffet directly 
after dinner and let it rise until about five or until very 
light. Then add the soda and put mixture in two long 
tins, and let it stand half an hour before baking. Eat 
hot with butter. 

CHEESE STICKS OR STRAWS (" The Hostess of To-day ") 
One cup flour, with one teaspoon baking powder 
sifted in. Add one tablespoon melted butter, one-half 
cup grated cheese, dash of salt and cayenne, and only 
enough milk to make a stiff dough. Roll very thin, cut 
in narrow strips, roll in grated cheese, braid the strips 
together and bake on brown paper. 

Another. Use puff paste, roll thin; sprinkle with 
cheese and cayenne, cut into strips and bake brown. 

Another. Mix one-half cup grated cheese with one- 
half cup flour, one teaspoon butter, dash of salt and 
cayenne, enough cold water to make light paste. Roll 
very thin, cut into strips, brush with white of egg, and 
bake on paper in very hot oven. Serve any of these 
with salad or with afternoon tea. 



Chapter IV 
CAKE 



WASHINGTON CAKE (Family receipt, 1838) 

One and one-half pounds of flour, one pound sugar, 
three-fourths pound butter, five eggs, one pint of milk, 
one teaspoon soda, one nutmeg, one teaspoon cinnamon 
or clove, one glass brandy, one pound or more of raisins. 

LOAF CAKE (Salisbury) 

One pint warm milk, one pound flour, one-half teacup 
yeast or one-half yeast cake. Let it rise. When light 
add one pound butter, one and one-fourth pounds sugar, 
four eggs, one glass brandy, one nutmeg, two teaspoons 
cinnamon; add another pound of flour. Mix well to- 
gether. Let it rise again. Then beat it a few ininutes, 
add two pounds raisins and one-fourth pound citron. 
Put into tins and let stand one-half hour before baking. 
This makes four loaves. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE (i) (A great favorite) 

One-half cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, one- 
half cup cornstarch, one-half cup sweet milk, one and 
one-half cups flour, whites of six eggs, two small tea- 
spoons baking powder, one teaspoon extract of vanilla. 
Bake in jelly-cake pans. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 67 

ICING 

Whites of six eggs, eighteen tablespoons sifted sugar. 
To make it cocoanut cake, grate one nut the day before 
you want to use it and stir in with the icing. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE (2) 

One pound flour, one pound sugar, one-half pound 
butter, five eggs, one cup milk, one lemon, one small 
teaspoon soda. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE (3) 

One cup of flour, one-half cup of cornstarch, one cup 
of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of sweet 
milk, whites of six eggs, two teaspoons baking powder. 
Divide into three parts and bake in jelly-cake tins in 
twenty minutes with a moderate oven at first. 

FROSTING FOR THE ABOVE 

Take whites of three eggs; after beating light, add one 
dozen teaspoons of pulverized sugar to an egg. Grate 
rind of one lemon; remove the thick white covering 
and grate the pulp, adding also one -half of a grated 
cocoanut. Beat this well together. Place this mix- 
ture in a pail in a kettle of boiling water and let it cook 
twenty minutes, stirring it frequently. Spread it upon 
the layers of the cake while warm, covering loaf with the 
remainder of the cocoanut. For an extra thickness of 
frosting, add white of another egg and sugar in propor- 
tion, with a little more cocoanut. If the lemon is not 
acid and juicy add a little more juice. 



68 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

CUP CAKE (i) (F. E. M.) 

Two cups white sugar, one cup butter, three cups 
flour, five eggs, three-fourths cup sour milk in which 
dissolve small teaspoon soda; flavor with lemon. To 
make almond cake add one pound blanched almonds. 

CUP CAKE (2) (S. W. W.) 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups fiour, in 
which sift three teaspoons baking powder, four eggs, one 
cup milk (sweet), — if you have sour milk, omit baking I 
powder and dissolve in it one teaspoon of soda, — one 
grated nutmeg. 

POUND CAKE (S. W. W.) 

One pound butter (or three-fourths pound butter and 
one-fourth pound lard is better), one pound sugar, one 
pound flour, ten small eggs, one grated nutmeg. Stir 
butter and sugar until it froths. Bake in patty-pans in 
moderate oven. Good for jelly cake, leaving out nut- 
meg and adding lemon. Good for fruit cake also. 

JELLY CAKE 

One pound flour, one pound sugar, one-half pound 
butter, the whole of six or whites of twelve eggs, rind of 
one lemon, one cup sweet milk, three teaspoons baking 
powder. 

DELICIOUS CAKE (E. S.) 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, four 
eggs beaten separately, one cup sweet milk, one-half 
cup wine and brandy mixed, with one small nutmeg 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 69 

grated in it, three small teaspoons baking powder sifted 
in the flour, one -half cup raisins chopped fine. 

SPONGE CAKE (i) (S. F.) 

Nine eggs that weigh a pound, one pound sugar, one- 
half pound flour, rind and juice of one lemon. Put in 
whites of eggs last. 

SPONGE CAKE (2) 

Two cups granulated sugar, four eggs dropped in and 
beaten thoroughly, one cup hot water, two cups sifted 
flour with three small teaspoons baking powder, rind and 
juice of one lemon. Moderate oven. This makes two 
tins of cake. 

QUEEN'S CAKE (H. S. G.) 

One pound flour, one pound sugar, three-fourths pound 
butter, six eggs, one-half cup sour cream (scant), one 
small teaspoon soda, one gill of wine, one gill of brandy, 
one nutmeg, one teaspoon cinnamon, one pound raisins. 

DELICATE CAKE 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one cup flour 
warmed and sifted (measure before sifting), one table- 
spoon sweet cream, whites of five eggs, flavor to taste. 
One-half cocoanut makes delicious cocoanut cake. One 
loaf. 

BLACK CAKE (Wedding) 

One pound flour, one pound sugar, one pound butter, 
twelve eggs, four pounds raisins, two pounds currants, 
one pound citron, one gravy spoon cinnamon, one table- 



70 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

spoon mace, one teaspoon clove, four nutmegs, two wine- 
glasses brandy. Bake four hours. If thick, let stand 
in oven until morning. 

ORANGE CAKE (i) (S. W. W.) 

One pound granulated sugar, one-half pound butter, 
one pound flour, one cup sweet milk, two teaspoons 
baking powder sifted with the flour, six eggs beaten 
separately, one large fresh orange, rind and juice. Beat 
butter and sugar together thoroughly, add yolks of eggs, 
then the milk, then the orange, and lastly the flour and 
whites alternately. Bake in jelly cake tins, either three 
or four, and put together with stiff frosting flavored with 
orange. One-half of this receipt will make a good-sized 
loaf (two whites and four yolks). For the full measure 
(two loaves), use for frosting, whites of four eggs and 
rind and juice of one orange. Cover top and sides 
thickly. 

ORANGE CAKE (2) 

Two cups sugar, five eggs (five yolks and three whites), 
one-half cup of water, one teaspoon cream tartar and one- 
half teaspoon soda or one and one-half teaspoons baking 
powder, two cups flour, juice and grated rind of one 
orange. For frosting, the saved whites of two eggs, 
juice and grated rind of one orange, sugar enough to 
thicken. 

BREAD CAKE (i) (Buffalo) 

One heaping cup of butter, a little more than two cups 
of sugar (stir these together light and white) , one and one- 
half glasses wine, the same quantity of brandy, three 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 71 

eggs, one nutmeg and a little mace or cinnamon, fotir 
cups dough (very light), one cup seeded raisins, one-half 
teaspoon soda dissolved in a little milk. This cake 
should be stirred and allowed to rise in the pans after 
mixing, like loaf cake. Spice, soda, and fruit stirred in 
just before putting in tins for baking. Scrimp cups of 
dough, if you want it rich. 

BREAD CAKE (2) (J. L.) 

Three cups very light dough, two cups sugar, one cup 
butter (rather scant), three eggs, one-half cup milk or 
thin cream, two tablespoons brandy, one small teaspoon 
soda, one nutmeg, one pound or less of raisins (one cup 
will answer). Set to rise in the pans twenty minutes. 
Bake one hour. 

LOAF OR ELECTION CAKE* (i) 

Four pounds flour, one and three-fourths pounds but- 
ter or half butter and half lard, two pounds sugar, four 
eggs, one quart sweet milk warmed, one pint homemade 
yeast or two yeast cakes, one nutmeg, one tablespoon 
cinnamon, a little mace, one glass brandy, one pound 
raisins. Wet the flour with the milk and yeast at night. 
After rubbing the lard, butter, and sugar thoroughly, 
put in half of it and stir well together and keep it 
through the night in a warm place. When very light 
(which is usually early in the morning) add the other 
ingredients. The eggs should be well beaten and mixed 
thoroughly with the butter and sugar in the morning, 

* This receipt was used by a notable housekeeper, who brought it from 
Stockbridge, Mass., to the Genesee country in the early twenties. It is abso- 
lutely reliable. 



72 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

and made as warm as the dough, else it will check its 
rising. When all is well stirred together, put it in pans 
and let it rise until thoroughly light, and bake one hour. 
One-half this receipt is sufficient for a family of moder- 
ate size. 

ELECTION CAKE (2) (F. C. W.) 

Three cups milk, a little warm; two cups granulated 
sugar, one cup yeast or one yeast cake, flour enough to 
make a thick batter. Let it rise over night. In the 
morning, add to the dough: two cups sugar and two cups 
butter beaten separately to a cream, one pound stoned 
raisins, a little mace, two eggs well beaten; wineglass of 
brandy. Let it rise in the pans and bake one hour. 
This receipt makes three round loaves. 

CONNECTICUT ELECTION CAKE (3) (Hartford) 
Take two pounds flour, one pound sugar, fourteen 
ounces butter or half butter and half lard, one yeast 
cake. Rub butter and sugar together. Put all the flour 
in pan, add the yeast, and wet with a little more than one 
pint of warm milk ; add a little less than half the butter 
and sugar previously prepared. This cannot be kneaded 
like bread, but patted together as soft as pound cake. 
If you mix it in the morning, let it stand where it will be 
warm but not heated. By night it will be quite light; 
add the rest of the sugar and butter, a little more than 
one-fourth ounce of mace or nutmeg if you prefer, a little 
more than one pound of raisins, one glass brandy, two 
eggs well beaten if you choose. This will make three 
loaves. Put in pans, let rise over night in warm place, 
and bake in morning. Be sure and let it rise well twice. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 73 

RAISED CAKE (i) 

One pint bowl of dough (when raised and ready to 
bake), four eggs beaten separately, one cup butter, two 
cups sugar, one nutmeg, one teaspoon cinnamon, one- 
half teaspoon soda, one pint bowl seeded raisins, one-half 
glass sherry. Mix by hand. Put dough in a large bowl. 
First work in the butter, then the sugar and spices, then 
the yolks of the eggs, next the whites, then the soda, 
which has been dissolved in a little warm water; lastly 
the raisins. Bake about as long as you would bread. 
This makes two loaves. 

RAISED CAKE (2) (C.) 

One pint milk, scalded and cooled a little; three cups 
flour, one-half a compressed yeast cake. Let it rise for 
two hours or more until very light. One cup butter, two 
cups sugar beaten separately to a cream, one cup raisins, 
two eggs, three teaspoons cinnamon, one teaspoon mace, 
a little nutmeg, one small half teaspoon soda dissolved 
in a little water. If the batter is not stiff enough, add 
more flour. Work all together very thoroughly with 
the hand. Let it rise in pans until very light. This will 
make two loaves. 

CAROLINA CAKE 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one-half cup sweet 
milk, four eggs beaten separately, three teaspoons even 
full of baking powder, one-half the grated rind of a lemon, 
one-half teaspoon mace. Beat butter and sugar to a 
cream, add yolks, then milk, then two cups flour in 
which the baking powder has been sifted, and whites of 



74 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

eggs, alternately. The lemon rind and mace may be 
put in with the butter and sugar. 

IMPERIAL CAKE 

One pound flour, one pound butter, one pound sugar, 
one pound raisins, one pound sweet almonds, three- 
fourths pound citron cut fine, ten eggs, wineglass of 
rose water, wineglass of brandy, teaspoon of mace. 

LADY CAKE (Always served on New Year's Day in old times) 

Blanch one-fourth pound shelled bitter almonds or 
two ounces of sweet and two ounces bitter almonds in 
the following manner: Put them into a bowl of boiling 
water and let them lie in it until the skin peels off easily, 
then throw them into the cold water. Pound them, a few 
at a time, in a mortar until very smooth, adding a few 
drops of sherry wine ; take three-fourths pound butter and 
one pound granulated sugar. Having stirred them to- 
gether to a cream, add almonds gradually, and yolks of 
eggs beaten ; three-fourths pound flour, nine eggs omitting 
the yolk of one. Stir flour and whites of eggs alternately 
into the mixture, a very little at a time of each. Bake 
in square tin pan. If in little tins, use two ounces less 
of flour. 

PLAIN FRUIT CAKE 

One pound brown sugar, ten ounces butter, one-half 
cup sweet milk, one pound flour, four or five eggs, two 
teaspoons baking powder sifted in flour, one nutmeg, 
and a little cinnamon or clove. One, two, or three pounds 
raisins chopped. Wineglass brandy improves it. Mod- 
erate oven. This makes two loaves. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 75 

SPICE CAKE 

One pound sugar, one-half pound butter, one pound 
flour, four eggs, one cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, 
one tablespoon cloves, one tablespoon cinnamon, one 
pound raisins, one-fourth pound citron, one glass of 
wine. 

MADEIRA NUT CAKE 

Two cups sugar, one and one-half cups butter, not 
quite half a cup sweet milk, whites of eight eggs, three 
and one-half cups flour, three teaspoons baking powder 
sifted through the flour, two teaspoons vanilla extract. 
Rub butter and sugar, then put in milk, then eggs, and 
last of all flour. Bake in flat, square tins, about twenty- 
minutes in moderate oven. Put a little vanilla in frost- 
ing; mark it off in squares, putting a half nut in middle 
of each piece, and drop on it a little frosting. In this, 
as in all cakes that have baking powder, mix all ingre- 
dients thoroughly together, let them stand a few minutes 
to rise, while greasing tins, then stir all up very thor- 
oughly and pour out. 

LAYER CAKE 

Butter, size of a large egg, one cup sugar, two-thirds 
cup sweet milk, two and one-half cups flour, two tea- 
spoons baking powder, small pinch of salt, two eggs. 
Save out white of one egg and half the white of the other 
for icing. Stir butter and sugar together, drop in the 
two yolks and half white, and beat thoroughly; add 
milk, then flour and baking powder sifted together. 



76 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

You first measure the flour, add baking powder, and sift 
both together. Bake in two shallow pans. 

A good recipe for chocolate or any other layer cake. For spice cake, add 
to the above one-half teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves, allspice, and one 
quarter of a nutmeg. 

LEMON FILLING FOR THE ABOVE 

Two-thirds cup sugar, two level tablespoons corn- 
starch. Stir these together, add one egg and beat well, 
grated rind and juice of one lemon, one small cup hot 
water. Put all in saucepan over the fire and stir until 
thick. 

ICING FOR ABOVE 

Two-thirds cup sugar with a mite of water boiled 
until stringy. Stir into well-beaten white and one-half 
egg, with Dover egg beater. Extract, lemon. For 
chocolate icing, leave out lemon, add two squares choco- 
late and extract of vanilla after it is beaten smooth. 

COCOANUT CAKE (i) 

One pound of sugar, one-half pound butter, one pound 
flour, whites of twenty eggs, one tablespoon of wine or 
rose water, one large cocoanut grated, adding the milk. 

COCOANUT CAKE (2) 

Less than a cup of butter, two cups sugar, four cups 
flour, whites of eight eggs, one cup sweet milk, three 
teaspoons baking powder sifted in three cups of the 
flour, a grated cocoanut mixed with the fourth cup of 
flour. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 77 

COCOANUT DROPS 

Grate a cocoanut, add whites of four eggs (to a small 
nut or six to a large one), sugar to your taste, drop on 
white paper (previously wetted). Bake a light brown. 

COFFEE CAKE 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, three and one-half 
cups flour, one cup strong coffee, one cup syrup, one 
wineglass brandy, one teaspoon soda dissolved in warm 
water, one tablespoon cinnamon, one tablespoon cloves, 
one-half pound raisins, one-fourth pound currants, one- 
fourth pound citron. 

WHITE CAKE 

Ten ounces fresh butter, one pound sugar, one pound 
flour, whites of fifteen eggs ; flavor with almond or white 
wine. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE (i) 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three and one-half 
cups flour, one scant cup of milk, one and one-half tea- 
spoons baking powder, five eggs, leaving out two whites 
to be used for frosting. While hot, frost with the two 
whites, one-half cup sugar, six tablespoons of grated 
chocolate, two teaspoons of vanilla or lemon if you pre- 
fer. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE (2) (Puerto Rico) 

Mix together until smooth, one-half cake chocolate, 
one-half cup milk, one cup granulated sugar, yolk of one 
egg, teaspoon of vanilla. When cold mix with the fol- 
lowing cake: one cup sugar, three-fourths cup butter, 
one-half cup milk, two cups flour with three teaspoons 



78 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

baking powder sifted in, three eggs and the extra white. 
Bake in patty-pans in rather quick oven. 



SIMPLE CHOCOLATE CAKE (3) 

One cup sugar, one large tablespoon butter (cream 
well). Melt two squares chocolate in oven. Add it to 
butter and sugar creamed. Stir well: one cup milk, 
two scant cups flour in which are sifted two teaspoons 
baking powder. Add milk and flour alternately, one 
teaspoon vanilla; last thing add one egg beaten very 
light. Bake in two square loaves and put together with 
chocolate icing. 

CHOCOLATE PATTIES (J. B. M.) 

Heaping tablespoon of butter, one cup powdered sugar, 
one-half cup sweet milk, one (scant) cup of flour. Sift 
in with it one easy teaspoon baking powder, whites of 
two eggs beaten stiff, one teaspoon vanilla. Cream 
butter and sugar; alternate milk with flour and baking 
powder. Stir with firm, quick stroke. Add vanilla 
and fold in eggs. Bake ten minutes. 

BOILED ICING for above and also for ♦' SIMPLE CHOCOLATE 

CAKE" 

One cup granulated sugar, one tablespoon boiling 
water. Shake well together. Boil hard until it threads 
from a spoon. Beat white of one egg, one square of 
Baker's chocolate; put into egg. Pour the boiling sugar 
over the egg and chocolate and beat until it is smooth. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 79 

WHITE CAKE 

Two cups powdered sugar and one-half cup butter 
creamed, one cup sweet milk, three cups flour, two tea- 
spoons baking powder, flavor with almond and vanilla 
if you like, whites of six eggs. This may be baked in a 
loaf or in little square tins, and frosted. 

FROSTING 

One egg (the white), same quantity of water. Con- 
fectioner's sugar added slowly until the right consist- 
ency. This does not have to be cooked. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES (Flora) 

Two cups sugar, three-fourths cup butter, one-half 
cup milk, three or three and one-half cups flour, three 
teaspoons baking powder, five eggs, one teaspoon vanilla 
extract. Bake in dripping-pan for about twenty 
minutes. 

FROSTING 

Whites of three eggs, one-half cake Baker's chocolate, 
eight tablespoons sugar, one tablespoon cold water, two 
teaspoons extract of vanilla. 

LEBANON POUND CAKES 

Ten ounces sugar, ten ounces flour, eight ounces butter, 
five eggs, one wineglass sherry, one nutmeg. The nut- 
meg should first be grated into the flour ; mix flour and 
butter together; beat yolks and sugar in another dish; 
beat whites of eggs very stiff and add them by degrees 
to the bowl in which are the yolks and sugar, alternating 



8o The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

with the butter and flour. Bake in patty-pans, add 
vanilla and a little rose water to the frosting for flavor- 
ing. 

NUT CAKE 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup milk, 
two cups pastry flour, two eggs, one coffee cup chopped 
raisins, one coffee cup chopped English walnuts, one 
teaspoon cream tarter, one-half teaspoon soda or one 
and one-half teaspoons baking powder. Beat butter to 
a cream, add sugar gradually, and, when light, the eggs 
well beaten, then the milk, and the flour in- which the 
baking powder has been thoroughly mixed. Mix all 
quickly and add raisins and nuts. Bake in rather deep 
sheets in a moderate oven for thirty-five minutes. This 
quantity will make one large or two small sheets. 

CIDER CAKE (C. H. L.) 

One cup of butter, two cups sugar, one cup raisins, one 
cup currants, five eggs, one and one-half tumblers of 
cider, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cloves, one tea- 
spoon cinnamon, three cups flour. Rub butter and 
sugar together to a cream, then beat in eggs, add fruits; 
then the cider. Dissolve the soda in a little of the cider. 
Make pretty thick with flour. 

FRENCH LOAF CAKE 

One pound flour, three-fourths pound sugar, one-half 
pound butter; brandy, wine, and milk, one-half gill of 
each simmered together; cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon, 
and mace, one teaspoon soda, one pound seeded raisins, 
four eggs. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 8i 

SAXTON CAKE 

One-half pound butter, one pound sugar, creamed; 
one pound flour, yolks of four eggs and whites of five eggs, 
one pound raisins, one cup sour cream, spice to taste, 
one teaspoon soda, one wineglass wine. Add the cream 
with the soda dissolved in it the last thing. 

FRUIT CAKE — PLAIN 

One cup sugar, four tablespoons butter, one cup sour 
milk, one cup raisins, two cups flour, one teaspoon soda, 
spices to taste. 

DROP CAKE (Mrs. Miller) 

One pound flour, lacking three even tablespoons ; one 
pound sugar, one-fourth pound butter, one-fourth pound 
currants, two gills sweet milk, two-thirds teaspoon 
soda and two teaspoons cream tartar, or one and one- 
half tablespoons baking powder, five eggs. Sift soda 
and cream tartar or baking powder through a fine wire- 
cloth sifter and mix thoroughly with the flour. Cream 
the butter and add the sugar with enough of the milk to 
make them mix easily. Add yolks of eggs and beat 
well. Then add, alternately, the milk, the beaten whites 
of the eggs, and the flour. Butter a dripping pan, drop 
the batter in separate spoonfuls, sprinkle a few currants 
over every one and bake a rich brown. The cakes run 
together and must be broken apart when taken from the 
oven. Cool them on a sieve. The batter for this cake 
will keep a week in a cold place. Flavor with nutmeg 
or cinnamon or anything else you prefer, and omit the 
currants if you choose. 



82 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

SUGAR COOKIES (M. W. P.) 

One cup sugar, one cup butter, three eggs, three tea- 
spoons baking powder, flour enough to roll out thin. 
Sprinkle sugar over the top of the cookies and bake in 
quick oven. A wineglass of sherry added is an improve- 
ment, in which case add one tablespoon more of butter. 

JUMBLES 

One cup sugar, one cup butter, one egg, a little nut- 
meg, as little flour as you can use and roll thin — very 
thin. Sprinkle fine sugar on top, as they are placed in 
oven. 

" EXCELLENT " COOKIES 

One quart molasses, two cups butter, one tablespoon 
soda. Boil all together a little, take off, and when cold, 
add enough flour to roll out very thin into cookies. 

CARDIMUM CAKE 

One pound flour, one pound sugar, three ounces butter, 
three eggs, one tablespoon ginger, one tablespoon cin- 
namon. Roll out thin and cut in squares and put 
blanched almonds on each corner. 

WALNUT WAFERS 

One-half pint walnuts taken from the shells, one- 
half pint brown sugar, two eggs, three evert tablespoons 
flour, one-third teaspoon salt. Beat the eggs, add sugar, 
then flour and salt, and lastly the walnuts which have 
been chopped fine. Mix well and spread as thin as pos- 
sible with the back of a tablespoon in a buttered pan. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 83 

Place half walnuts at equal distances on the cake and 
bake in hot oven. Cut into squares before it is cold, but 
not immediately upon taking out of the oven. One and 
one-half pounds nuts will make this quantity. 

GINGER COOKIES 

Two cups molasses, handful brown sugar, one cup 
drippings of beef or pork or lard, one cup thick sour 
milk, two teaspoonfuls soda (rounding), one teaspoon 
ginger, a little salt. Mix with flour as soft as you can 
without sticking. One half of this receipt is enough at 
a time for small family. It is economical and good. 

GINGER-SNAPS 

One bowl molasses, one bowl sugar, one bowl butter, 
two eggs, one large tablespoon ginger, one large table- 
spoon soda dissolved in one-half cup hot water, a little 
clove, flour enough to roll very thin. 

GINGER-SNAPS (" Nantucket Receipts ") 

Two cups molasses, one cup butter, one tablespoon 
ginger, one teaspoon salt, two teaspoons soda. Mix 
these together, set them on the stove and let them boil 
up once. Then add sufficient flour to make it stiff 
enough to roll. Roll it out thin, cut into cakes and bake 
quickly. 

PEANUT COOKIES (" The Hostess of To-day ") 

Cream four tablespoons butter, add one-half cup gran- 
ulated sugar, two egg-yolks beaten thoroughly, four 
tablespoons milk, one-half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon 



84 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

lemon juice, one and one-half teaspoons baking powder 
sifted twice in one cup flour. Beat thoroughly. Two 
cups chopped peanuts. Drop from spoon on buttered 
paper or tin. Place whole peanut in center of each. 
Bake twelve minutes in slow oven. 

MAPLE SUGAR FROSTING (" The Hostess of To-day ") 

One-half pound maple sugar, scraped; one-fourth cup 
boiling water. Melt and boil without stirring until it 
threads. Add slowly to one egg-white, beaten stiff, and 
beat all until thick enough to spread. 

FOR ICING 

White of one egg; one cup sugar; put this into pan 
with very little water and boil until it is stringy. Beat 
the egg about half with Dover beater, then add hot sugar ■. 
gradually to egg, beating with Dover beater all the time i 
until it becomes cold. Spread on cold cake and it will 
harden in a few minutes. 

CHOCOLATE ICING 

Two squares grated chocolate, five tablespoons pow- 
dered sugar, three tablespoons boiling water. Stir over 
moderate fire until smooth and glassy. 

KISSES 

The whites of four eggs beaten stiff, two cups of sugar. 
Shake powdered sugar over tin sheet, drop the mixture 
from tablespoon, and bake in a slow oven. 



Chapter V 
PRESERVED FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 



RHUBARB JAM (M. J. S.) 

Four bunches rhubarb, three pounds granulated sugar, 
twelve peeled oranges. Take off every bit of white 
skin, remove all the seeds, then slice down each carpel 
and remove pulp, put it with the finely cut rhubarb 
and sugar, and stir gently until sugar is melted. Cook 
and stir constantly until redaced to a jam. About one 
hour fast cooking. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

One dozen oranges cut thin as possible and seeds 
taken out, five pints of water, six pounds sugar, juice 
of three lemons. Let the fruit stand over night, with 
the sugar and water. In the morning, boil until tender. 
The fruit must stand in porcelain. Let it cook for the 
first hour on back part of the stove ; then set it forward 
and boil hard, until done. If boiled too long it becomes 
dark. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI 

One pint brandy or rum, one pound fruit, one pound 
sugar. Stir three times the first day it is made and 
then let it stand. Add one pound of any other fruit 
and one pound sugar, as often as you please. Stir as 



86 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

above, but do not add more spirits. Make in stone 
crock. Avoid the small, seedy fruits. 

PRESERVED PINEAPPLE (i) 

Pare the pines, carefully removing the eyes. Pick 
with a fork in small pieces. Add three-quarters pound 
sugar to one pound of fruit. Spread fruit on platters, 
covering it with the sugar and let stand over night. 
In the morning set it in the sun and let it remain all 
day; then put in jars and seal it up tight. That night 
or the next morning, put in boiler of cold water nearly 
up to the neck and let boil five minutes and take out 
without loosening cover. Other fruits may be served 
in the same way. 

PRESERVED PINEAPPLE (2) (H. S. G.) 

Take the ' ' pines ' ' in June , as they are riper and cheaper 
than at any other season. After paring the fruit, 
weigh it and allow a pound of granulated sugar to a 
pound of the pineapple. Grate the fruit on a coarse 
grater, throwing away the cores. When all grated put 
it in a preserving kettle and let it gently simmer for 
half an hour, keeping it covered as much as possible to 
preserve the flavor. In the meantime, warm the sugar 
and when the fruit is transparent (for which the half 
hour is usually sufficient) stir in the sugar, and let all 
simmer together from ten to twenty minutes. Previous 
to this, have the glass jars filled with hot water, then 
when the preserve is done, empty out water and put in 
the preserve hot, screw top down tightly and the thing 
is done. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 87 

PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES 

Take twelve boxes of the Willson berries; after hull- 
ing, throw out the small berries (which will do for jam) 
and put the large ones in a kettle, with the sugar, pound 
for pound. Set kettle on back of stove and let fruit 
slowly come to a boil. Then skim out the berries on to 
platters, boil down and skim syrup and pour over them 
and stand in the sun for two days. Put into jars cold 
and seal, having first spread tissue paper wet with brandy 
over the to^. 

STRAWBERRY JAM 

Weigh one pound of white sugar to each pound of the 
fruit. Cover berries thoroughly with the sugar and let 
stand over night. In the morning, throw all into the 
preserving kettle and boil until thoroughly cooked, 
about one hour. Put into jars or tumblers cold. 

RED CURRANT JELLY (i) (S. D. P.) 
Take out leaves and put currants into a kettle over 
the fire. Let them warm through and take a potato 
masher and jam them thoroughly, breaking all the skins. 
Then put into a linen bag and let drain; do not squeeze. 
Measure the juice and to every pint weigh out one pound 
granulated sugar. Put juice in the kettle and boil 
fifteen or twenty minutes. Then throw in the sugar, 
boil five minutes and pour into glasses. Use the earliest 
fruit you can get. 

RED CURRANT JELLY (2) 

Stem the currants, wilt them in a kettle and squeeze 
through sleazy linen or crash bag. Then put through 



88 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

cheese cloth and flannel bags, let drain, do not squeeze, 
until perfectly clear. When the juice is prepared, put 
in kettle, adding your sugar at the same time, pound 
for pint. Stir until dissolved, and when it begins to 
boil do not touch it again with your spoon. Let boil 
by the watch four minutes exactly. In three and one- 
half minutes turn off the gas (if you are using a gas 
stove), but do not touch the liquid until after the four 
minutes, when skim and turn into glasses. Boil slowly. 

BLACK CURRANT JELLY 

(From Miss Leslie's " Complete Cookery ") 

Take large, ripe, black currants, strip them from the 
stalks and mash them with the back of a ladle. Put 
them into a preserving kettle, with a tumbler of water 
to each quart of currants. Cover it closely, set it over 
a moderate fire, and when the currants have come to 
a boil, take them out and squeeze them through a jelly- 
bag. To each pint of juice allow a pound of granulated 
sugar, and (having washed the preserving kettle perfectly 
clean) put in the sugar with the juice. Stir them together 
till well mixed and dissolved, and then boil not longer 
than ten minutes, as the juice of black currants, being 
very thick, will come to a jelly very soon, and if boiled 
too long it will be tough and ropy. 

CHERRY COMPOTE 

Three pounds sour cherries, four pounds sugar, two 
pounds seeded raisins, four oranges. Chop oranges 
fine; steam raisins twenty minutes; chop rather coarse, 
add cherries, oranges, and sugar. Boil twenty minutes 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 89 

and put in tumblers, like jelly. Weigh cherries after 
pitting and use oranges at discretion. I sometimes use 
the pulp of four and skin of one. 

SPICED CURRANTS (i) 

Seven pounds currants, four pounds sugar, one pint 
vinegar, two pounds seeded raisins, one ounce cinna- 
mon stick, one-half ounce whole cloves, tied in a bag. 
Boil all together for two or three hours to a thick jam. 

SPICED CURRANTS (2) 

Five pounds currants, three pounds sugar, one-half 
pint vinegar, one ounce stick cinnamon, one-half ounce 
whole clove, tablespoon each of whole allspice and 
mace. Tie spices in bags and boil with currants and 
sugar to a thick jam two or three hours. Add vinegar 
when nearly done. 

RASPBERRY JAM 

The fruit must be quite ripe and dry. As soon as 
possible, strew fine sugar over the berries; it preserves 
the flavor and color. Put them in an earthen jar or 
bowl with an equal weight of white sugar and one half 
the weight of currant juice. Put in as much of the 
pulp of the currants as you can press through a sieve. 
Mash fruit, juice, and sugar together with your hand, 
then put them in a preserving kettle, over a clear, slow 
fire, stirring them all the time. Skim them when they 
boil and after boil them twenty minutes. Try them on 
a plate; if they jelly, they are quite done. If you prefer 



90 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

it without the currants, put three-quarters pound of 
sugar to one pound of raspberries and make as above. 

FOR CANNING FRUIT 

Ten pounds sugar, three quarts cold water. Boil 
exactly fifteen minutes by the clock. Take it off and 
let stand over night, or until cold. Put your fruit into 
the jars and pack it down. Fill the jars full to over- 
flowing of syrup, put them in a boiler of cold water and 
boil twenty minutes. This is good for peaches, plums, 
cherries, etc. 

PEACH MARMALADE 

Take ripe early Crawford peaches, pare, stone, and 
quarter them. To each pound of peaches allow three- 
quarters pound of granulated sugar and one-half ounce 
bitter almonds or peach kernels blanched in scalding 
water and pounded smooth in a mortar. Scald the 
peaches in their own juice, — or, if dry, in a very little 
water, — mash them to a pulp, mix with them the sugar 
and pounded almonds in a preserving kettle, and boil 
to a smooth, thick jam, skimming and stirring it well, 
and keeping it covered as much as possible. Thirty 
or forty minutes will generally suffice for boiling. When 
cold, put in glass jars. Plum marmalade may be made 
in the same way, flavoring with pounded plum kernels. 

BRANDY PEACHES (S. D. P.) 

Six pounds granulated sugar, six pounds fruit, one 
and one-half pints white French brandy or lightest 
colored whiskey. Use early Crawfords, ripe, but hard 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 91 

and firm. Pare the fruit smoothly, make the syrup with 
as little water as possible and cook, not thoroughly, a 
few peaches at a time in it. Have your brandy in a 
crock and drop peaches in the clear brandy as fast as 
they are cooked, until the six pounds are finished. Then 
skim the syrup and pour gently over the peaches that 
are in the brandy. Lift the peaches carefully into glass 
jars, stir the syrup thoroughly from the bottom, fill the 
jars and screw tightly. 

SYRUP FOR PRESERVES 

Allow one-half pint water to one pound sugar; stir it 
until the sugar is entirely melted. As soon as the sugar 
first boils up, pour in a little cold water, and when it 
boils a second time take it off the fire. Let it settle ten 
minutes, carefully skim it and then boil it half an hour. 
If you allow a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit you 
will have no further trouble with preserves. 

CHIPPED PEAR 

Use Virgouleuse or any other fine-grained hard pear. 
Eight pounds fruit, pared and sliced very thin, eight 
pounds granulated sugar, one-quarter pound Canton 
ginger (preserved in syrup), three lemons. Cut the 
rind of the lemons without any of the white part, drop 
the bits into a little sugar, add the juice of the lemons 
and the ginger sliced or cut into small pieces. Dissolve 
sugar in one pint water, add lemon and ginger and then 
the fruit, and boil all slowly for three hours until the 
syrup is rich and thick. 



92 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

QUINCE PRESERVE 

Wash, wipe, pare, and core yellow quinces. Boil 
them tender and drain on a sieve. Boil the cores and 
parings in a little water in a stewpan, to extract the 
quince flavor, and the glutinous matter around the 
seeds. Strain this water and add it to the water in 
which the quinces were boiled. Add sugar in the pro- 
portion of a pound to a pint of the liquor. Boil and 
skim this syrup, then put in the quinces and boil until 
they are tender and clear. 

QUINCE MARMALADE (i) 

Examine the fruit carefully and cut out any decayed 
or wormy spot. Pare the quinces, quarter them and 
take out the core. Boil parings and cores, in enough 
water to cover them, until they are tender. Strain out 
the liquid and put into the kettle. Add to it the quinces 
and boil gently until tender, but not too soft. Then 
take them out with a skimmer and lay on a platter. 
Cut them in strips and put into the liquid, and to each 
pint put one pound of sugar. If you prefer, chip the 
quinces very thin before putting them into the kettle. 
Cook them one hour, or until they are thick and a nice 
amber color. 

QUINCE JELLY (J. M. G.) 

Pare the quinces and quarter them; put them in 
kettle and barely cover them with water. Boil until 
very tender, all to pieces! Take a crock, tie cheese 
cloth over the top of it, pour the quince in and let drain 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 93 

all night. In the morning measure the liquid, put it 
over the fire and let it come to a boil. Add sugar, 
pound to pint, and boil from fifteen to twenty minutes. 

QUINCE MARMALADE (2) 

Save parings and cores of the jelly quinces, cover with 
water, boil until tender and strain. Add this liquid to 
the quince from which the juice has drained. Measure, 
and to each pound put three quarters of a pound of 
sugar. Boil for half or three quarters of an hour, and 
put into glass jars. This is nearly as good as the regular 
(No. i) marmalade. 

GRAPE MARMALADE 

Ten pounds grapes (Isabella), six pounds granulated 
sugar, one and one-half pounds raisins after stoning, 
two large orangess liced thin, — including the rind, — two 
teaspoons cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves. First pulp 
the grapes, cook, and strain to remove seeds. Add 
skins and cook until tender. Then add sugar, raisins, 
etc., and cook until it forms a soft jam. Omit the 
spices if you prefer. This receipt fills eight pint jars. 

GRAPE JELLY 

Use Concord grapes; pick them from the stem and 
boil a good while in a porcelain kettle. Strain through 
cheese cloth. Boil the juice twenty minutes, then add 
sugar, less than a pound to a pint. If you have nine 
pints of juice, put in eight pounds sugar, or perhaps 
leave out two ounces of sugar from every pound. 



94 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

WILD GRAPE JELLY (F. L. A.) 

Crush the fruit; put on stove until it begins to simmer, 
then boil hard for twenty minutes. Take it off and 
strain it. To a pint of juice put a pound of sugar. 
Put over the fire the strained juice before adding sugar, 
and boil twenty minutes. Warm sugar in oven, add it 
to juice and boil three minutes. 



QUINCE AND APPLE JELLY 

Use one part quince to two parts fine tart apples 
(fall pippins). After weighing, boil the quince and 
apple separately. Cut the quinces into very thin slices 
so that they will cook more quickly, boil and strain and 
add to it the liquid from the cooked apples. To every 
pint of juice allow three quarters of a pound of granu- 
lated sugar. Boil the juice twenty minutes, add sugar, 
and let it come to a boil. If it should not stiffen at 
once do not be discouraged. After it has stood a week 
it will be stiff enough. 

APPLE AND QUINCE 

Take fifteen quinces and fifteen sweet apples. Pare 
them; boil all the skins together until perfectly tender; 
strain them and put liquid back in the kettle. Cut 
your fruit into quarters or eighths (remove the cores), 
and throw it into the kettle with two pounds of light 
yellow sugar (a little more if white sugar is used), and 
cook until perfectly tender. Serve cold. This is for 
present use. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 95 

PRUNE PLUMS 

Five pounds plums: Take out pits and cut till rather 
small; put in kettle and boil. Seed two pounds raisins 
and add to plums, and boil until the water is boiled out 
of them and they are dry as can be without burning. 
Then add three pounds sugar, the juice of three lemons, 
having first grated the peel. Mix this peel with a little 
dry sugar and add it the very last thing. 

PLUM BUTTER 

Remove the skins and pits of the Lombard plums; 
put them in kettle with the sugar — three quarters 
of a pound sugar to one pound fruit — and boil until a 
thick, rich jam, adding a little powdered cinnamon. 

TO PRESERVE DAMSON PLUMS 

Three-quarters pound brown sugar to every pound 
of the fruit. Put in a porcelain kettle a layer of plums 
and then of sugar until the kettle is full, and set it in 
the oven, not very hot. They will stew gradually, and 
when done, take out the plums with a skimmer and lay 
them into a crock or jars. Scald the syrup and pour 
hot over the plums and they are done. 

QUINCE AND ORANGE MARMALADE 

One and one-half dozen quinces, one-half dozen 
oranges, sugar, pound for pound. Slice quinces very 
thin, slice oranges very thin, peel and all. Cook quinces 
a few minutes in boiling water, add sugar and oranges; 
boil until tender and smooth. 



Chapter VI 
PICKLES, LOTIONS, MISCELLANEOUS 



PINEAPPLE PICKLE 

Twelve pineapples, or seven pounds of fruit, three 
pounds sugar, one quart vinegar, one scant ounce of 
stick cinnamon, one scant ounce of whole cloves. Pare 
the fruit and cut into thick slices. Put vinegar, fruit, 
spices, and sugar into a kettle (after tying spices in a 
bag) ; cook fruit until tender. Remove it into jars, boil 
the syrup down a little thicker and pour over the fruit. 

PICKLED PEACHES (Ancient, delicious) 

Ten pounds fruit, five pounds sugar, one pint vinegar, 
cinnamon and cloves to taste. Rub the down from the 
peaches and stick two or three cloves in each one. After 
the vinegar and sugar have come to a boil, add a couple 
of ounces of stick cinnamon and drop in the peaches, a 
few at a time, and cook thoroughly, laying them in a 
crock or jar as fast as they are done. Then boil the 
syrup, skim, and pour over the peaches. Pare the fruit 
if you choose. 

SPICED PLUMS 

Eight pounds plums, four pounds sugar, one teaspoon 
cloves, two teaspoons cinnamon, one teacup vinegar. 
Cook all together until as thick as jelly. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 97 

PICKLED PEPPERS 

Cut the peppers below the stem, leaving a hinge 
about an inch long; remove the seeds, and put the 
peppers into a strong brine, and let them stand twenty- 
four hours; chop cabbage fine, adding one good-sized 
onion to a three-gallon crock. Mix in white and black 
mustard seed 'and celery seed. Fill the peppers and 
sew down the top. Place these in a crock, and pour 
over them scalded vinegar to which has been added a 
bowlful of brown sugar and handful of whole cloves. I 
make twenty peppers at a time. 

PICKLED PLUMS (i) 

Seven pounds fruit, five pounds sugar, one pint vine- 
gar, one ounce each of stick cinnamon and whole cloves. 
Boil sugar, vinegar, and spices together and pour boiling 
hot over the plums, having first pricked them with a 
sharp fork. Do this for two mornings, and on the third 
morning, after the vinegar comes to a boil, lay the 
plums in it and let all boil up until they are cooked 
through. Then put in crock or jars and cover closely. 

PICKLED PLUMS (2) 

Ten pounds plums, four pounds sugar, one quart 
vinegar, cloves and cinnamon. Scald the plums slowly 
in this syrup until struck through. Then lay in a crock 
and pour over them the boiling hot syrup. 

PICKLED CUCUMBERS 

Choose small cucumbers, about two inches long, that 
have been cut, not torn, from the vines. Put five hun- 



98 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

dred in a stone jar. Pour boiling water over them, with 
one -half pint salt to a gallon of water. Do this three 
times, and each time, as soon as the water cools, put on 
more. After the third time, drain off the water and 
pour half water and half vinegar hot over them. When 
this cools, pour it off. Put enough vinegar to cover 
the pickles (about one gallon) into a kettle, add six 
large onions and four peppers sliced, one-half pint 
ground mustard, one ounce ginger root, one-half ounce 
each of mustard-seed, celery seed, stick cinnamon, whole 
cloves, allspice, and turmeric; small piece of alum, 
two pounds brown sugar. Let come to boil and pour 
hot over the pickles and cover closely. After about two 
weeks, stir from the bottom thoroughly, and add two 
pounds more of sugar. 

MIXED PICKLE 

One peck green tomatoes or cucumbers, one-half peck 
ripe tomatoes, one dozen large onions, one quarter of a 
cabbage. Chop all fine, sprinkle one cup salt over them 
and mix thoroughly. Let vStand over night. In the 
morning squeeze out the water and boil mixture with 
one gallon vinegar for two hours briskly. Then add one 
dozen red peppers chopped very fine, one cup grated 
horse-radish, two tablespoons celery seed, one tablespoon 
each of ground black pepper, ginger, mace, cloves, 
allspice, and mustard, and two pounds granulated sugar. 
Boil fifteen minutes and bottle. This is good, but 
troublesome to make. The receipt fills about one dozen 
pint jars, and will keep for years. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 99 

MUSTARD PICKLE 

One quart large green cucumbers, cut in thin slices 
without peeling. Soak in salt and water over night. 
One pint small onions, one large cauliflower, three green 
peppers, one quart green tomatoes cut in slices. Cauli- 
flower, onions, peppers, and tomatoes scalded in hot salt 
and water. Put all in a jar, turn over them hot vinegar 
and let stand several days. Then drain off vinegar. 
Make a paste of half a box of mustard, one quart fresh 
vinegar, and two cups sugar. Bring it to a boil and pour 
it over the pickles. 

RIPE CUCUMBER PICKLE 

Prepare one dozen ripe cucumbers by taking off the 
rind, removing the seeds, and cutting them in strips 
or any other shape you choose; put them in a jar and 
cover with vinegar and let them stand twenty-four 
hours. Then pour off the vinegar, measure it carefully 
and throw it away. Take the same quantity of fresh 
vinegar, add two pounds brown sugar and one ounce 
cassia buds to each quart, and boil the cucumbers in it 
till they are clear. 

CELERY SAUCE 

Thirty large ripe tomatoes, four large heads of celery, 
four onions, three large red peppers, one quart good cider 
vinegar, fifteen tablespoons sugar, and four tablespoons 
salt. Chop very fine the celery, onions, and peppers; 
cut the tomatoes into small pieces, then mix all together 
and cook for two hours. Put while hot into bottles or 
glass jars. 



loo The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

TOMATO CATSUP (i) 

For four quarts of catsup, use one peck of firm, ripe 
tomatoes, heaped measure. Wash and quarter them, 
then put them into the preserving kettle with one very- 
large onion or two medium-sized ones; add one large 
green pepper (or two peppers if you like a " hot " cat- 
sup), rejecting the seeds. Cook slowly one hour, being 
careful not to bum. Rub the mass through a sieve and 
return it to the kettle. Add one and one-half cups 
strong cider vinegar, one cup sugar, three tablespoons 
salt, rounded measure, two tablespoons white mustard 
seed, one tablespoon each of whole cloves and black 
pepper tied in cheese-cloth bag, two sticks cinnamon. 
Cook slowly but steadily for three hours, stirring fre- 
quently. Remove the spices, but do not strain, as the 
mustard seed is a desirable addition. Seal while boiling 
hot, either in self-sealing jars or in wide-mouthed bottles. 
This receipt has been in family use for three generations, 
and will prove delicious. 

TOMATO CATSUP (2) 

One gallon tomato after it is strained through a col- 
ander, one pint small onions chopped fine, one and one- 
half pints vinegar, one gill salt, one tablespoon ground 
cloves, three tablespoons ground cinnamon, one table- 
spoon ground mustard, one tablespoon cayenne pepper, 
one tablespoon mace, one grated nutmeg, three table- 
spoons brown sugar. Boil three hours and bottle while 
hot. One peck of tomatoes will make one gallon of 
juice. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book loi 

CHOWCHOW 

Five hundred very small cucumbers, one hundred 
small onions. Pour hot brine over the cucumbers three 
days in succession, and once over the onions. Put them 
together, cover with half vinegar and water, hot, and 
let stand over night; mix one-half pound white mustard 
seed, one ounce celery seed, one ounce turmeric, one-half 
pint grated horse-radish, one-quarter cup black pepper, 
one teaspoon cayenne pepper, one-quarter pound pow- 
dered cinnamon. Boil all in one gallon vinegar and 
two pounds brown sugar, and pour over the pickles. 
When cold prepare a dressing of two tablespoons dry 
mustard and four or five tablespoons olive oil and add 
to the mixture. 

SPICED GRAPES 

Use Concord or Isabella grapes. To seven pounds 
grapes use three and one-half pounds granulated sugar, 
one gill vinegar, two heaping tablespoons whole allspice, 
one and one-half tablespoons stick cinnamon, one heap- 
ing tablespoon whole cloves. Pinch the pulps out from 
the skins. Throw them into a kettle and scald. Rub 
them through a coarse sieve to remove seeds; then put 
them into a kettle with the sugar and vinegar, and spices 
tied in a cheese-cloth bag. When all are hot, add skins. 
Let the whole boil for about twenty minutes, or longer, 
if the skins are not yet tender. Fill jars and close while 
hot. This receipt will fill four pint jars. Use the above 
quantity of ground spices if preferred. 



I02 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

OIL PICKLE 

One dozen large cucumbers sliced thin, one-half 
dozen small onions sliced thin. Sprinkle with salt and 
let stand three hours. Drain and add one quart vinegar, 
two-thirds cup olive oil, one-half cup each of white 
mustard seed and black mustard seed, and one tablespoon 
celery seed. 

CHILI SAUCE 

One peck ripe tomatoes, six large green peppers, six 
large onions, two teaspoons ground allspice, two tea- 
spoons ground cinnamon. Scald and skin the tomatoes 
as for stewing, chop onions and peppers fine. Boil all 
together slowly for three or four hours, after adding two 
cups brown sugar, five cups vinegar, a handful of salt. 
Seal tightly while hot in bottles or glass jars. 

OIL CUCUMBERS 

One hundred medium-sized cucumbers sliced thin. 
Layer of cucumbers and layer of salt. Let stand for 
twenty -four hours; drain thoroughly; then mix with 
three pints small white onions sliced, one-half cup white 
pepper or two dozen red Chili peppers, one-quarter cup 
mustard seed, one-eighth cup celery seed, two cups olive 
oil, about a pint of vinegar, with a small lump of alum. 

GREEN TOMATO OR FRENCH PICKLE 

One peck green tomatoes sliced thin, six large onions 
sliced, one cup salt thrown on them. Let them stand 
over night and drain off water in the morning ; then boil 
tomatoes and onions in two quarts water and one quart 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 103 

vinegar fifteen or twenty minutes. After boiling put 
into a colander and drain. Prepare seven pints vine- 
gar, two pounds brown sugar, one-half pound white 
mustard seed, two tablespoons each of ground allspice, 
clove, ginger, cinnamon, and mustard; one-half table- 
spoon cayenne pepper. Put all in a kettle and cook 
twenty minutes and be very careful about burning. 

RIPE TOMATO PICKLE 

Cut tomatoes in half and cover with salt, allowing 
one pint salt to one peck tomatoes. After twenty-four 
hours drain them carefully. Prepare spices in follow- 
ing proportions: Two tablespoons ground cinnamon, 
one tablespoon each ground ginger .mustard, and allspice ; 
one-half tablespoon clove, one-half tablespoon mace. 
Have ready ten large onions sliced and two green peppers 
chopped fine. Put layer of tomatoes in jar with rings 
of onion and a little chopped pepper; sprinkle over the 
spices mixed in a sieve and throw in a handful of com- 
mon brown sugar. Continue this until the jar is filled; 
lay a plate over them, with a weight to press them down, 
and cover with cold vinegar, pouring it in carefully at 

the side. 

GINGER CORDIAL 

Pick over carefully four quarts of ripe red currants, 
and put them in one gallon of Bourbon whiskey. Add 
rind and juice of two lemons, eight ounces white ginger- 
root, two ounces bitter almonds. Let it stand twelve 
days; make a syrup of four pounds sugar, and strain 
this into it. Cork tight in bottles. It will keep for 
years. 



I04 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

BLACKBERRY SYRUP 

To one quart of blackberry juice, put one tablespoon 
each of ground cloves, cinnamon and allspice, and three 
pounds sugar. Boil fifteen minutes. When cool, add 
small teacup of brandy. 

ROOT BEER (Mrs. L. A.) 

Take one pound sarsaparilla root, one-half pound 
sassafras, one dozen bunches wintergreen leaves. Use 
one third of this at a time. Put in a kettle with two 
gallons of cold water, boil half an hour. Let it strain 
through cheese cloth. Put the leaves, with big handful 
of hops added, over, with two gallons more of water; 
boil one hour. Strain and put with the liquid two 
bowls brown sugar, one pint molasses, and two cents' 
worth brewer's yeast, while it is warm. Let it stand over 
night and bottle in the morning. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR 

Three quarts fresh raspberries, one quart good cider 
vinegar. Let stand twenty -four hours ; pour off vinegar 
and throw into it three quarts of fresh berries. After 
twenty-four hours, strain it and add three quarts more 
of berries. After twenty-four hours strain carefully, 
and measure; add one pound sugar to each pint of 
liquid. Boil fifteen minutes and bottle. 

MEAT JELLY FOR INVALIDS 

Part of a shank of beef, a knuckle of veal. Wash, 
cover with water; simmer on the back of the stove half 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 105 

a day. Skim off the grease and strain. Salt. If wine is 
used, no salt. 

MOLASSES CANDY (i) 

One quart molasses, piece of butter size of an egg. 
Boil over a brisk fire until it will harden when dropped 
into cold water. Add one teaspoon bicarbonate of 
soda to make it white and brittle, and, when almost 
done, one teaspoon essence of peppermint or winter- 
green. To be pulled while warm, with buttered hands, 
and cut in sticks. 

MOLASSES CANDY (2) 
Take one cup molasses, two cups brown sugar, one 
tablespoon vinegar, one-half cup water. Boil all to- 
gether until nearly done. Then dissolve one-half tea- 
spoon soda in a little hot water and add it to the candy. 
Boil it until by dropping a few drops into cold water it 
becomes brittle. This, when pulled well, glistens like 
gold. Rub butter on your hands before pulling it, and 
put a little on the tins to keep it from sticking. 

MOLASSES PEANUT CANDY 
Two cups molasses, one cup brown sugar, one table- 
spoon butter, one tablespoon vinegar. While the candy 
is boiling, remove the shells and brown skins from the 
peanuts, lay the nuts in buttered pans, and when the 
candy is done pour it over them. While it is still warm 
cut in blocks. 

PEANUT CANDY 

One quart peanuts, blanch and chop very fine. Put 
one pound pulverized sugar in a saucepan over a hot 



io6 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

fire; stir every minute and as soon as the lumps are 
smoothed out, take it off the fire, throw in the peanuts, 
stir up quickly and pour into a shallow, greased pan. 

CHOCOLATE CANDY (Fudge) 

Three cups sugar, one cup milk, three-quarters cake 
Baker's cooking chocolate, one-half cup butter. Flavor 
with vanilla and add, if you like, nuts, preserved ginger, 
or figs. The nuts and preserved ginger cut in small 
pieces are very good together. Stir the candy all the 
time (it bums easily), and cook it until it is on the point 
of turning to sugar. 

FUDGE 

Two cups sugar, one -half cup milk or cream, small 
piece of butter, teaspoon of vanilla, three squares Baker's 
chocolate. Boil twelve to fourteen minutes. Take off 
and beat up hard, until thick, then pour into pans. 

PRALINES 

Put one cup maple sugar in just enough water to 
dissolve it. Boil ten minutes. Take it from the stove 
and stir into it walnut or butternut meats. 

NUT CANDY 

Boil two pounds brown or maple sugar, one-half pint 
water, and one gill molasses, until it hardens on ice. 
Have meats taken from shell in as large pieces as possi- 
ble. Spread them on plates and pour the candy over 
them to cool. 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 107 

SHAKER CANDY 

Melt maple sugar; dip into it large butternut meats 
and let them dry. 

POTPOURRI 

One-half peck rose leaves ; place in a deep bowl in thin 
layers, with a handful of salt sprinkled on each layer. 
Let it remain five days, turning twice a day. This should 
appear moist. Add three ounces of bruised allspice 
and one ounce of bruised stick cinnamon. This forms 
the stock; allow it to remain a week, turning daily from 
bottom to top. Then put into the permanent jar, one 
ounce of allspice, adding the stock layer by layer. 
Sprinkle between the layers the following mixture: 
One ounce cloves, one ounce cinnamon, two nutmegs 
(all coarsely powdered), two ounces ginger root sliced 
thin, one-half ounce anise seed bruised, ten grains 
finest musk, two ounces sliced orris root, one-half pound 
dried lavender flowers. Then add the following essential 
oils at pleasure, some prefer one, some another: Lemon 
verbena, geranium, jessamine, or any cologne waters; 
orange and lemon peel, and any freshly-dried flowers that 
are fragrant. Shake and stir the jar once or twice a 
week; open only during the daily odorizing. 

CAMPHOR ICE (Very good) 

Six drams pulverized camphor gum, one ounce 
spermaceti, one-half ounce white wax, four tablespoons 
almond oil. Let all melt slowly together ; pour into small 
wide -mouthed jars. 



io8 The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

FURNITURE POLISH 

One-half ounce gum shellac, and one-half ounce resin, 
dissolved in one-half pint alcohol. Add three-quarters 
pint linseed oil, one-half pint spirits of turpentine, and 
one teaspoon of aniline brown. (The latter is not neces- 
sary unless your wood is light, as black walnut some- 
times is, and you wish to darken it.) For all polished 
furniture it is quite wonderful ; removes scratches , white 
spots, etc. Before using, shake the bottle well, apply 
vigorously with a flannel or canton flannel cloth, and 
rub dry with another. You have to buy the aniline 
powder and dissolve it. This is an excellent preparation. 

JAPANESE CREAM 

One-half pound castile soap (white), one gallon soft 
water. Let it dissolve, but do not let it boil. Add the 
following ingredients and bottle immediately : One ounce 
powdered borax, one ounce alcohol, one ounce ether, 
one-half pound ammonia. Put in half -pint bottles. 

LOTION FOR CHAPPED HANDS 

One-half pint rose water, one ounce pure glycerine, 
six drams pure brandy, twelve grains borax. Put 
together cold and shake. 

COLD CREAM 

One ounce white wax, one ounce spermaceti, one ounce 
mutton tallow (free from kidney-fat), two ounces sweet 
almond oil, two ounces glycerine, twelve drops attar 



The Genesee Valley Cook Book 109 

of roses. Melt all slowly together in an earthen vessel. 
Pour into a bowl or soup plate and beat with a silver 
fork until perfectly white and light ; then while it is still 
warm, put in small earthen pots and cover. 

FRENCH RECEIPT FOR POMADE 

Piece of white beeswax size of an egg, two ounces 
sweet oil, one ounce castor oil, one ounce sweet almond 
oil. Simmer slowly together and beat until cold. 

ANOTHER POMADE 

Cut up beef's marrow into small pieces and boil in 
water; when cold, skim it from the top, and add one-third 
the quantity of castor oil. Beat the whole together 
very thoroughly. Perfume with anything, — brandy if 
you choose. 

MOTH AND VERMIN EXTERMINATOR 

One ounce corrosive sublimate, one ounce camphor, 
one ounce turpentine, and a little oil of cedar, in one- 
half pint alcohol. 

GOOD PASTE 

Dissolve a piece of alum the size of a walnut in a pint 
of boiling water. To this add two tablespoons of flour 
made smooth in a little cold water and a few drops of 
oil of cloves, letting the whole come to a boil. This 
paste will keep for months. Put in glass jars and use 
with a half -inch bristle brush. 



no The Genesee Valley Cook Book 

A RECEIPT FOR SOAP BUBBLES 
(From an article in " St. Nicholas," written by Jacob F. Bucher) 

To prepare the mixture, put into a pint bottle two 
ounces of best white castile soap cut into thin shavings, 
and fill the bottle with cold water which has been first 
boiled and then left to cool. Shake well together and 
allow the bottle to stand until the upper part of the 
solution is clear. Decant now of this clear solution two 
parts, and add one part of glycerine; shake well, and it 
is ready for use. Use a new ordinary clay pipe. 



INDEX. 



Ambrosia, 28. 
Apple Charlotte, 35. 

Bannock, 62. 

Beef a la Mode, 16. 

Beef Balls, 22. 

Beef, Creamed Dried, 18. 

Frizzled, 19. 
Beef Stew, 17. 
Beer, Root, 104. 
Biscuit, so, 51, 52, 62. 
Blanc Mange, 26. 
Bread, Brown, 50. 

Com, S3, 54. 

Indian, 56. 

Sticks, 53. 

Wheat, 49. 

White, 49. 
Buns, 58. 

Cabbage, 24, 42. 
Cake, Black, 69. 

Blueberry, 44. 

Bread, 70, 71. 

Breakfast, 64. 

Buckwheat, 56. 

Cardimum, 82. 

Carolina, 73. 

Chocolate, 77, 78. 

Cider, 80. 

Cocoanut, 76. 

Coffee, 77. 

Connecticut, 72. 

Cup, 68. 

Delicate, 69. 

Delicious, 68. 

Drop, 8i. 

Election, 71, 72. 



Cake, Flannel, 40. 

French Loaf, 80. 

Fruit, 74, 8i. 

Hoe, 64. 

Imperial, 74. 

Jelly, 68. 

Lady, 74. 

Layer, 75. 

Lebanon Pound, 79. 

Loaf, 66. 

Madeira Nut, 75. 

Mountain, 66, 67. 

Nut, 80. 

Orange, 70. 

Pound, 68. 

Quaker Oats, 63. 

Queen's, 69. 

Raised, 73. 

Saxton, 81. 

Spice, 7S. 

Sponge, 69. 

Tea, 63. 

Washington, 66. 

White, 77, 79. 
Camphor Ice, 107. 
Candy, Shaker, 107. 
Canning Fruit, 90. 
Catsup, Tomato, 100. 
Charlotte Russe, 27. 
Cheese Cakes, 47. 
Cheese Straws, 65. 
Cherry Compote, 88. 
Chicken, Cheese, 15. 

Creamed, 18. 

En Casserole, 25. 
Chowchow, 10 1. 
Cocoanut Drops, 77. 
Codfish, 20. 



11 



Index 



Cookies, 63, 79, 82, 83. 
Cordial, Ginger, 103. 
Corn, 24. 
Corned Beef, 23. 
Cream, Bavarian, 38. 

Cold, 108. 

Japanese, 108. 
Croquettes, 23. 
Crullers, 62. 
Currants, Spiced, 89. 
Custard, Rennet, 35. 

Doughnuts, 58, 59. 

Dressing, for Cold Slaw, 41, 42. 

Salad, 41. 
Dripping, 62. 
Dumplings, i6. 

Eggs, Scrambled, 55. 

Filling, Lemon, 76. 
Fish, 13. 

Fish Pudding, 12. 
Fritters, 30. 
Frosting, 79, 84. 
" Fudge," 106. 

Gingerbread, 59, 60. 
Grapes, Spiced, loi. 
Griddle Cakes, 54, 55. 
Gruel, Oatmeal, 61. 

Ham, to Boil, 15. 

Ice Cream, 31. 
Icing, 67, 76, 78, 84. 

Jam, Raspberry, 89. 

Rhubarb, 85. 

Strawberry, 87. 
Jelly, 26. 

Calf's-Foot, 26. 

Currant, 87, 88. 

Grape, 93, 94. 

Meat, 104. 

Quince, 92, 94. 



Kidneys, 16. 
" Kisses," 84. 

Liver, 15. 

Loaf, Indian, 50. 

Lobster h. la Newburg, 21, 22. 

Lobster and Mushroom, 20. 

Lobster, New London Stewed, 22. 

Lotion for Chapped Hands, 108. 

Macaroni, 24. 
Marmalade, Grape, 93. 

Orange, 85. 

Peach, 90. 

Quince and Orange, 95. 
Mince Meat, 39, 40. 
Molasses Candy, 105. 
Moth and Vermin Exterminator, 109. 
Muffins, 55, 64. 

Corn, 40. 

Oatmeal, 63. 
Mushrooms, 19. 

Saute, 20. 

Souffle, 20. 
Mutton, Minced, 23. 

Nut Candy, 106. 

Omelet, Plain, 57. 

Spanish, 44. 
Oysters, 1 1 . 

Paste, 109. 

Patties, Chicken, 14. 

Peaches, Brandy, 90. 

Peanut Candy, 105. 

Pear, Chipped, 91. 

Pickle, 96, 97, 98, 99, 102, 103. 

Pie, Huckleberry, 36. 

Mince, 36. 

Pumpkin, 37. 

Squash, 37. 
Pigeons, Stewed, 11. 
Pineapple, Preserved, 86. 
Plixm Butter, 95. 
Plums, Prune, 95. 

Preserved, 95. 

Spiced, 96. 



Index 



111 



Polish, Furniture, io8. 
Pomade, 109. 
Popovers, 57, 58. 
Pork, Fry Salt, 11. 
Potatoes, Creamed, 25. 
Potpourri, 107. 
Pralines, 106. 
Prune Plums, 95, 
Puddings, 28, 29, 34, .55. 
Pudding, Bread, 30. 

Chocolate, 32. 

Cottage, 44. 

Hasty, 44. 

Lemon, 36. 

Indian, 31, 32. 

Orange, 36. 

Plum, 33, 34. 

Rice, i3,. 
Pufifet, Dutch, 6s. 
Puffs, 38. 

Quince, 92. 

Rolls, 49. 

" Parker House," 52. 
Rusk, 64. 

Salad, 46. 

Chicken, 45. 

Tomato, 47. 
Sally Limn, 57. 
Sardines in Bread Shells, 47. 
Sauce, for Cake, 43. 

For Kidneys, 16. 

For Pudding, 29, 30, 31, 34. 

Hollandaise, 14, 42. 

Tart are, 45. 



Sauce, Wine, 43. 
Scones, 64. 
Sherbet, Lemon, 31. 
Shortcake, 41, 55. 

Strawberry, 34. 
Snaps, Ginger, 83. 
Soap Bubbles, no. 
Soup, Bean, 10. 

Beef, 7. 

Beef (good), 8. 

Clam, 8. 

Pea, 8. 

Potato, 10. 
Stew, Beef, 17. 
Stock, Soup, 9. 
Strawberry Jam, 87. 
Strawberries, Preserved, 87. 
Sweetbreads, 19. 
Syrup, Blackberry, 104. 

For Preserves, 91. 

Terrapin, 17. 
Toast, Golden, 30. 

Milk, 61. 
Tutti-Frutti, 85. 

Veal, 7- 

Loaf, n. 
Vermin and Moth Exterminator, 109. 
Vinegar, Raspberry, 104. 

Wafers, Walnut, 82. 
Waffles, 54- 

Yeast, Hop, 60. 
Potato, 61. 



V 289 










i^' ^-i 



»J> o 




'^^<^'^' 













--^^ 









/;■.... ,v— 














'mM': %,^ 




f" yA 



^°-*, -.^ 












iOv*^ 




v^o' 



a H 














\,^^ 

.*% 




^^^ -?.^^^'^^'\ "-^^^^^"^ /^'^^'\ 




.•^ 




















iO-n*.^ 








•^^ ♦^ *i 

%*^ ' • • • v^y ^ 



