
COMMON A 





A 






-^mnmn,; 



CA5 5fcLL'S 

HOME HANDBOOKS 



i.'^: 



^cii»1>TU«>n.(«*M -.■fktffiMsuH^n 




M, 



AGRin. Df^PL 



J 



COOKERY FOR COMMON AILMENTS 



GASSELL'S 

HOME HANDBOOKS 

Uai/orm with this Serlea 
Clotb, Is. net 

List of the Volumes : 

The Home Lawyer 

The Home Physician 

The Making of the Home. By Mrs. 
S. A. Barnett 

Our Sick, and How to Take Care 

or Them. By Florence Stacpoolk 

Vegetarian Cookery. By A. G. P>.vne 

Cookery for Common Ailments. 

By a Fellow of the Royal College 
OF Phvsicians and Phyllis Browne 

Advice to Women on the Care of 
their Health Before, During, and 
After Confinement. By Florence 
Stacpoole 

Practical Housekeeping. By Phyllis 
Browne 

Practical Home Cookery. By A. G. 
Payne 

Elements of Modern Dressmaking. 
By J. E. Davis 

Etiquette of Good Society. Edited 
and Revised by Lady Colim Campbell 

Poultry and Profit. By William \V. 
Broomhead 



COOKERY 

FOR 

COMMON AILMENTS 



BY 

A FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE 

OF PHYSICIANS 

»/ 

AND 

PHYLLIS BROWNE 



CASSELL AND COMPANY, LTD. 
London, New York, Toronto and Melbourne 

1911 









\ 






^'^ 



^ 



ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 



PREFACE 



This book is intended to serve as a practical 
dietetic guide to the invalid, and in its pages, it 
is hoped, the reader will find the food problem 
stated, not merely in terms of carbon, hydrogen, and 
nitrogen, etc., etc., nor, advancing a step, in terms 
of hydrocarbons, carbohydrates, and proteids, etc., 
but in the form of actual dishes which will prove 
both digestible and palatable. 

The term '' invalid " will be found to receive a 
very comprehensive definition, which, if it does not 
actually include health, will not exclude it. This 
is necessary, for it must be clear that no hard 
and fast line can be drawn between health and 
unhealth. So true is this that we have con- 
sidered that such conditions as old age, in which 
the powers are failing, and infanoy ond childhood, 

330359 



viii PREFACE. 

in which the powers are not established — i.e., have 
not become stable — may with propriety associate 
themselves with the multitudinous forms of failure 
to reach the standard of health, or actual departure 
from this standard. Health, briefly defined, is life 
at its highest ; unheal th, or the invalid state, is life 
at every level below this.* 

For convenience' sake we accord individuality to 
states of unhealth which, broadl}^, present definite 
characters, and these constitute the long list of 
diseases. So far as is practicable, we shall take from 
this list the more important members — at any rate, 
those which may serve as types — and we shall 
endeavour in each case to state clearly the principles 
on which the dieting should be conducted, and 
then to exemplify these principles. 

To do this rationally, it will be advisable that 
we should first sketcth briefly the physiology of 
the sul)ject. 

* Old age and infancy are briefly referred to in the opening 
chapters : it has not been thought necessary to give them more 
special consideration in the second part of the book. 



FEE FACE. ix 

At the end of the book there will be found a 
number of recipes for the preparation of foods 
suitable to illness in its more acute stages ; these 
constitute ''liquid or slop diet/' and to these re- 
course may be had if it be necessary to feed the 
patient before the arrival of the doctor ; also, with 
his sanction, selection may be made therefrom 
during the course of the illness. 

With this exception, no attempt is made to 
guide the feeding of the sick : this must be in the 
hands of the medical attendant. Very cuiious 
notions prevail among the uninitiated in this respect; 
and the doctor who should diet his patient and 
omit the prescription sacred to Jupiter, would incur 
serious risk to his reputation. Yet the diet may be 
alone at fault, and simple regulations as to this all 
that is needful. The days of our Fairy Tales are 
not quite forgotten, and, when all is said and done, 
the most matter-of-fact amongst us dearly loves a 
little mystery. Drugs have their place, and, in our 
opinion, a most important place ; but diet in all 
cases takes precedence. 



1 PREFAOE, 

May we anticipate the critic, and add that a 
treatise in the present small compass cannot 
present the reader with dietetic intricacies, not 
to say eccentricities, but must restrict itself to 
teachings which have a more general currency. 
If these fail, the diet must be changed unhesi- 
tatingly and the organism humoured, however un- 
orthodox or whimsical in its tastes. The Science 
of diet has yet to be written ; till that time we 
must leave room for the eclecticism of the palate, 
and admit the fancy diet. 



COE'TEK'TS 



Food and Digestion 

Kinds op Diet ... 

The Articles op Diet ... 



Obesity 

Diabetes; or the Sugar Diathesis 

The Gouty Habit 

Grayel and Stone 

Eheumatism 

Eheumatic Gout... 

KiCKETS 

SCURTY 

ScROPULA, Consumption, etc. 

Anemia 

Nervous Prostration: "Nerves," Neurasthenia 
Fever (Acute and Chronic) ... 

Dyspepsia 

Biliousness 

"Torpid" or "Sluggish" Liver 



FAaB 

1 
21 
63 



76 
99 
117 
133 
142 
158 
173 
174 
176 
197 
217 
220 
224 
238 
241 



xu 



CONTENTS. 







PAoa 


Vomiting 





.. 243 


DiARRHCEA... 





.. 244 


Constipation 





.. 24G 


Bright's Diseasj 





.. 254 


Heart Disease 




.. 267 


Bronchitis 


.. 


.. 270 


Asthma 




.. 272 


Liquid and Semi-Liquid Foods, or 


"Slop Dietary" . 


.. 274 



Common Ailments. 



CHAPTER I. 

FOOD AND DIGESTION. 
" Our cupboard of food." — George Herbert. 

Given life, the data upon which it is maintained 
are the food-stuffs proper, and certain other sub- 
stances which, though essential to nutrition, are 
not usually classed under this heading. We may 
arrange as follows the nutritive principles : — 

Sugars and starches (carbohydrates). 
Fat and oils (hydrocarbons). 
The flesh of bird, beast, fish (proteids or 
albumens). 

Certain salts. Water. 

In this Kst the technical names of the first 
three groups are appended ; it should be added 
that the third group will with advantage be held 
to include the albuminoids, which, in the form 



2 DIET AND COOKERY 

of eonnoctive tissue, constitute a large proportion of 
flesh or muscla It is the connective tissue or 
tissues — present" in hesb, present in bone — which 
yield us gelatine. 

The first three groups occupy a position which 
is different from that belonging to the last two 
principles — viz. the salines and water ; for, whereas 
the former are of very complex structure, and 
within the organism are broken up, to be again, 
to some extent, built up within the tissues into 
other complex bodies, the latter — comparatively 
simple in their structure — may either wholly 
escape such changes of decomposition, or suffer 
them to a correspondingly simple degree. The 
best example of the salt group is chloride of sodium 
— common salt — a substance most widely distri- 
buted, but it is to other members of this class that 
fruits and vegetables owe much of their value [in 
saying this, we do not overlook the nutritive value 
of these articles of diet, which they possess in virtue 
of the presence in their tissues of bodies belonging 
to the first three groups} In a sense, water and 
the salines " condition " (or make possible) the com- 
phcated changes of analysis and synthesis to which 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 8 

the term " nutritive " is generally restricted. The 
restriction of this term to the first three groups 
cannot be maintained; for though the function 
subserved by a drink of water is wholly difierent 
from that which belongs to a slice of bread or of 
meat, the one is as necessary to the vital processes 
as is the other. 

With these qualifications, the above classes of 
bodies furnish us with the means of maintaining Hfe. 
To them we must add the condition of a certain 
temperature ; for this also is essential, the narrow 
range of a few degrees on the thermometer scale 
Hmiting the possibilities of vitality. We shall not 
be asked to place warmth on the list of nutritive 
principles, though it is quite true that we may 
starve from cold as well as from hunger. But what 
about stimulants ? We have made no mention of 
alcohol, nor does it come under any one of the 
headings in the foregoing list : Is it a food ? is it 
a drug ? Scientifically, we should prefer to rank 
it as the latter, but practically it will not be pos- 
sible to ignore its claims, sanctioned by imme- 
morial custom, to at least a place on the side- 
board. This subject we shail^discuss later. 



4 DIET AND COOKERY 

Given life, then, and the means of maintaining 
it, the problem of diet puts the following ques- 
tions : — 

(1) What are the absolute quantities of food 
necessary for health ? 

(2) What are the forms best adapted for this 
purpose, 

(a) to ensure the taking of food (palat- 

ability) ? 
(6) to ensure the highest assimilative 

values (digestibility) ? 

(3) What are the times at which food should be 
administered (dietetic opportunity) ? 

Question 2, in both its parts, belongs essentially 
to the domain of cookery. 

To proceed to the consideration of these ques- 
tions. The requirements of food are not, even in 
health, fixed quantities ; they vary according to the 
conditions of personality, age, occupation, climate, 
etc., and as often as these vary, so will the answers 
to the diet problem. Each case must be dealt with 
on its own merits ; but, as a rule, each individual 
receives from the organism placed at his disposal 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 5 

intimations sufficiently clear to enable him to main- 
tain the body in health, and thus the dweller in 
town or country, the occupant of the office or of 
the saddle, will be able to solve this question for 
the most part satisfactorily. If common sense 
and self-restraint will fashion the trencher ac- 
cording to the measure of the appetite, all will be 
well, and it will not be necessary to call in the 
doctor. 

More obviously, the requirements in disease will 
vary. Here life proceeds on a different plane, a 
new balance having been struck. In such cases, 
however important may be the adjuvant treatment 
by medicine — using the word in its widest sense — 
diet is always primary. Here, as in health, we have 
the same digestive organs to consider. They may 
be enfeebled or positively diseased ; but as long as 
there is a residuum of life the assimilative processes 
must persist. We will proceed, therefore, to con- 
sider the digestive process. 

The act of digestion is a complicated process, 
having several stages. It begins with the taking of 
food into the mouth. Within this cavity the solid 
portions of the food are broken up, comminuted, 



6 DIET AND COOKERY 

and intimately intermingled with the proper secre- 
tion of the mouth, the saliva. The whole process 
is termed ^mastication, but a special term, insaliva- 
tion, is reserved for the intermingling of the saliva 
with the food. Mastication, however, is the larger 
term, for it involves insalivation. The teeth as 
cutting and grinding instruments, the tongue as 
a stirrer, the salivary glands to furnish the secre- 
tion — these are the parts concerned. In respect 
of certain solid foods the mouth serves only to 
disintegrate, to break up, and in this way to 
prepare for the next operation ; but in the case 
of certain others, belonging to the group of the 
starches and sugars, it performs an additional 
chemical process. This latter results from the in- 
fluence of the saliva upon the carbohydrates as a 
group ; by it these are converted into more soluble 
or assimilable bodies. The active prmciple in the 
saliva is a ferment called ptyaline, and it serves the 
same function that an allied body, diastase, per- 
forms in the process of malting. The saliva by 
moistening the food enables it, after comminution, 
to be swallowed. This is a mechanical service 
which it will effect for all forms of solid food ; but it 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 7 

is an interesting question whether the saliva, as an 
alkaline fluid, does not perform yet another service, 
and facilitate in the stomach the penetration by the 
acid gastric juice of the masticated food. Be this 
as it may, it will have become abundantly evident 
that not only good manners, but good physiology, 
requires that we shall not drink with the mouth 
full ; fluid thus drunk will, it is true, moisten and 
thus facihtate swallowing, but it will not replace 
the saliva which should have performed this 
office. 

We would here insist upon the fact that 
the mouth does not concern itself with hquids, 
beyond passing them on. Such foods have no stage 
in the mouth; and the like is true of semi-solid 
substances, such as jellies, creams, custards, junkets. 
These may be swallowed along with a certain 
amount of saUva, but there can be neither com- 
minution nor insalivation. In certain stages of 
disease we may, of a purpose and for various 
reasons, jump the stage in the mouth, and ad- 
minister only hquid nourishment. 

To one point we may with advantage draw 
attention — viz. that the process of mastication is 



8 DIET AND COOKERY 

under our own control, and that we are directly 
responsible if the digestive act fails through its 
incomplete performance. 

The next stage takes place in the stomach, for 
the fauces and gullet merely serve as conducting 
tubes between the mouth and the stomach. Within 
the latter organ the food remains a considerable 
time, and during the whole of this period it is 
subjected to the action of an acid secretion, the 
gastric juice. This fluid gradually permeates the 
contents of the stomach, the intermingling being 
facilitated by certain movements of constriction 
and relaxation of the walls of the organ ; these 
movements are named peristaltic. Escape of the 
contents, either backwards into the gullet or on- 
wards into the intestine, is prevented by firm con- 
traction of the orifices of entry into and of exit 
from the stomach, so that during active gastric 
digestion this organ is a closed sac. The gastric 
juice owes its activity to two elements — the 
presence, namely, of a ferment named pepsine and 
of a free acid. Again we find that one particular 
class of food-stuffs is specially acted upon: this 
time it is the class of albuminous bodies, which 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 9 

constitute the chief part of the flesh of bird, beast, 
and fish. 

Digestion within the stomach lasts a variable 
period, dependent, on the one hand, upon the 
vigour of the stomach, and on the other upon the 
nature of the meal. As the process approaches 
completion, the more perfectly digested portions 
escape from the stomach into the intestine, the 
constricting muscle of the exit, or pylorus, relax- 
ing to allow them to pass ; but parts still un- 
changed, or imperfectly changed, appear to excite 
the muscle to renewed activity whenever they 
attempt to pass the outlet. They are thus retained 
till their conversion is completed. At first sight 
we are tempted to consider this selective action of 
the pyloric orifice as too intelligent ; but it is no 
more so than the selective action of a certain 
mechanism in the air passages, named the glottis, 
which allows free passage, in and out, to air and 
moisture, but closes spasmodically if a pungent 
vapour attempts to pass with the air. 

Beside the power to act upon the principles 
of meat, the stomach secretes a principle which 
curdles millc, curdling being the first stage in the 



10 DIET AND COOKERY 

digestion of milk. Sugary substances also undergo 
certain changes in the stomach. The action upon 
flesh remains, however, the main action. 

Stomach digestion contrasts with digestion in 
the mouth — if the term be allowable — in that it is 
not a voluntary process. We are unable volun- 
tarily to influence the food when once it has reached 
the stomach ; but, on the other hand, we are well 
acquainted with influences which do exert a modi- 
fying effect upon gastric digestion, and by regard- 
ing these we can at will seek or avoid disturbance. 
These influences operate also upon intestinal diges- 
tion, and we shall therefore postpone their consi- 
deration till after we have described this third 
stage. 

The next, or third, stage takes place in the 
intestines. The food, modified by the gastric juice, 
having left the stomach, is now subjected to the 
action of the liver and pancreas, two important 
glands, which pour their secretions into the upper 
part of the small intestine. At the same time, the 
walls of the intestine also secrete a certain amount 
of fluid, called succus entericus, which probably, 
however, plays only a subsidiary part in intestinal 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS 11 

digestion. It will not be necessary to analyse the 
action of these several secretions ; it suffices to say 
that the mingled fluids continue energetically the 
digestion of starchy and gummy substances and of 
albumen, and that they further promote by emulsi- 
fication and other changes the absorption of fats. 
Thus the third class of food-stuffs is now dealt 
with. The contents of the intestine in this 
stage will be found to have acquired an alkaline 
reaction. 

When digestion — or coction, as the older physi- 
ologists described the process — has proceeded far 
enough, absorption begins ; and though it will not 
be denied that in health a certain amount of 
absorption takes place from the stomach, yet, as 
the structure teaches us, it is the small intestine 
which in this act plays the prominent part. The 
upper and middle portions of the small intestine 
absorb most vigorously, the lower portions to a 
relatively small degree. The small intestine ter- 
minates in the large intestine, a tract of some 
length ; but by the time the contents of the intes- 
tinal tube reach this portion of the tract, the assimi- 
lative process is practically at an end, and what 



12 DIET AND COOKERY 

remains of the food is no longer nutritive. Thence 
onwards the intestinal tube is, to all intents and 
purposes, excretory only. 

We shall do well to bear in mind, however, 
that though normally absorption takes place chiefly 
in one part of the alimentary tract, yet that every 
part of the tract from the stomach, even to the 
termination of the large intestine, may serve this 
purpose, provided we bring to the tract food in a 
suitable condition for absorption. Of this know- 
ledge ample use is made in disease. In such cases 
the food is prepared by artificial means for the 
tract, and the organism does not cook its own meals. 

We must further add, that in health the secre- 
tions of the alimentary tract do not favour putre- 
factive or fermentative changes, though the contents 
of the stomach and intestines are highly putres- 
cible. In disease such changes are very prone to 
set in. 

Intestinal digestion is outside the direct control 
of the will, but, like gastric digestion, it is liable to 
be modified by a number of disturbing conditions 
of which we have knowledge. We will now proceed 
to consider these. 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 13 

It may be taken as axiomatic that the relative 
activity of one organ or system demands the rela- 
tive inactivity of other organs or systems. We 
know that increased activity of a part involves 
increased afflux of blood to the part, and therefore, 
pro tanto, deflux from other parts. If now, during 
activity of one system, we make the attempt to 
use energetically another system, we shall of 
necessity interfere with the working of the former 
system. Thus severe mental effort during diges- 
tion, or great muscular exertion, will more or less 
disturb the act, delaying or even arresting it for the 
time being. The experiment by Sir Busick Har- 
wood, quoted by Paris, is decisive on this point : — 
" He took two pointers, equally hungry, equally 
well fed ; the one he suffered to lie quiet after his 
meal, the other he kept for above two hours in 
constant exercise. On returning home he had 
them both killed. In the stomach of the do^r 
that had remained quiet and asleep all the food 
was found chymified, but in the stomach of the 
other dog the process of digestion had scarcely 
commenced."^ It must not be argued, however, 

* Paris, " Treatise on Diet," fifth edit., 1837, pp. 121, 122. 



li DIET AND COOKERY 

that digestion cannot proceed adequately except the 
other systems are completely inactive. The mode- 
rate use of these latter, especially in health, does not 
disturb digestion. It is effort, not exercise, which is 
harmful ; and the relation between effort and exer- 
cise is so much a matter of habit, that we shall not 
be surprised to observe amounts of work performed 
without effort by the one whose habit is work, which 
the unaccustomed could not accomplish without 
severe and sustained endeavour. Quite different 
physiological conditions will be involved in these 
two cases, the one making no extra demand upon 
the economy, the other taxing its powers severely. 
Clearly that which would disturb the digestion in 
the latter case, would leave it uninfluenced in the 
former. This is an example of the almost inde- 
finite powers of adaptation which the organism pos- 
sesses, and to again quote Paris : — " We have daily 
experience to prove that the husbandman may re- 
turn to his daily labour and the schoolboy to his 
gambols, immediately after a frugal meal, without 
inconvenience or injury;"^ but the same degree 
of exercise in the ciiso of a person of sedentary 

* OjK at., p. 122. 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 15 

habits or of weak stamina would probably arrest 
and subvert the whole process of digestion." 

The rule, then, for us all — strong and weakly, 
healthy and sick — is the avoidance of strain, effort, 
tension during digestion; we shall in this way 
avoid best one of the causes of that sub-pectoral 
grief with which some of us are acquainted. The 
moral is less the complete shunning of work, than 
its habitual performance, for in this way effort 
will be felt less and less. 

Violent emotions represent strain of another 
kind which may disturb digestion, but these we are 
more hable to be sought out by, than to seek for 
ourselves. 

Exposure to cold or chill may result in an 
acute attack of dyspepsia. This, again, will be 
accidental ; we need not caution as to this. 

How necessary, on the other hand, to the 
proper functioning of the alunentary tract is a 
regular action of the bowels, we must urge ; for this 
is a matter of considerable importance, and for 
which we are directly responsible, since it is so 
easily established by habit. It should, of course, 
be established in childhood. 



16 DIET AND GOOKERY 

To summarise very briefly : digestion recognises 
three stages, which succeed each other in regular 
sequence: a preparatory stage in the mouth, a 
gastric, and an intestinal stage. Together these 
constitute the digestive cycle. For the proper 
performance of the first we are directly responsible ; 
for the other two we are indirectly responsible, 
to the extent of avoiding certain well-known dis- 
turbing influences. 

There remains another point of view from which 
to regard the digestive act — viz. the time neces- 
sary to complete it. Upon this depend the 
practical questions, What shall be the number of 
meals ? and What the interval between successive 
meals ? 

The stage in the mouth — i.e. the period of mas- 
tication — demands some thirty minutes, more or 
less. Society has considerably protracted this period; 
but then the meal has ceased to be a real necessity 
— it has become a pastime and a fine art. This 
stage, indeed, can be shortened almost ad libituon 
provided we select and prepare our food accord- 
ingly. In childhood and infancy, where the food is 
milk and teeth a superfluity, the meal is taken in a 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 17 

surprisingly short time. In adult life we may, in 
cases of sickness, copy this method, and reduce the 
digestive act from three to two stages. The stage 
in the stomach will occupy a variable period, accord- 
ing to the nature of the food and the state of the 
stomach. Nothing exact can be said of its length, 
but it is probably measured by hours — at the least, 
two or three. The third, or intestinal stage, in like 
manner cannot be accurately measured ; but it also 
is probably measured by hours. The intestmal stage 
— continuing, as it does, the gastric digestion of 
albuminous bodies — supplements the latter, and 
hence, should the stomach have emptied itself rela- 
tively early, the intestinal process is likely to be 
relatively prolonged. 

This dovetailing of the two processes increases 
the difficulty of apportioning to each its time 
limits. Taking the two stages together, we may 
safely count them as lasting, at the least, four hours 
and a half to five hours.* Though these two acts 
supplement each other, there are reasons for beHev- 
ing that they are to a certam extent antagonistic, 

♦ Four to seven hours is tho estimate ol a careful observer of 
the duration in health. 



18 DIET AND COOKEET 

and cannot go on simultaneously without mutual 
interference. It is the merit of Dr. Paris to have 
drawn special attention to this matter, and to 
have shown that to start anew the process of gastric 
digestion, before the completion of the intestinal 
stage of a preceding repast, is almost certain to 
delay both processes. This is most important ; for 
there can be no doubt that the present tendency is 
to take too many meals, and to make the intervals 
too short. Should a dyspeptic state have arisen from 
such or from other causes, it is the common prac- 
tice to treat the enfeebled organs by smaller quan- 
tities of food at shorter intervals, on the ground 
that we shall tax the powers least in this way. The 
plea is plausible, but the practice is in the great 
majority of cases undoubtedly harmful. On this 
doctrine of little and often, Paris quotes the 
" specious aphorism of Su' W. Temple," " that the 
stomach of an invalid is like a schoolboy — always 
at mischief unless it is employed," and comments 
very severely on the harmfulness of the teaching. 
The truth is that in such cases we should endeavour 
to lengthen, and not shorten, the intervals, in order 
to rest the organs and enable them to recover their 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS 19 

vigour. This does not mean that, in exceptional 
cases, the maxim little and often may not hold 
true — e.g. in grave illnesses, in which the intestinal 
tract is both feeble and irritable, resenting in par- 
ticular food in bulk. Here our hand is forced, and 
we must give at frequent intervals because we can- 
not give in quantity. But, after all, these cases are 
ot the nature of crises, which temporarily we tide 
over as best we can ; and even in these we endea- 
vour to make the intervals as long as possible, 
having recourse, if needful, to other modes of ali- 
mentation — as by rectal injections. Wherever the 
method "little and often" is forced upon us, we 
must make the food correspondingly easy of diges- 
tion ; for in this way we lessen interference. In- 
deed, if we artificially pre-digest the food, the 
alimentary tract does little more than absorb, and 
we have no real digestive act. 

As to the number of meals and the intervals 
between them, this cannot be set down arbitrarily 
for one and for all. A liberal amount of common 
sense is required in setting forth a dietary ; but we 
may say broadly — 

(1) That three meals a day suffice. 



20 niJ^T AND COOKERY. 

(2) That the intervals should not be less than 
four hours and a half to five hours. 

A very good arrangement is — breakfast at 8 a.m., 
luncheon or dinner at 1 p.m. to 1.30 p.m., and the 
evening meal at 6.30 to 7 p.m. Whether the 
midday or the evening meal should be the dinner 
will depend much upon circumstances and the 
exigencies of the day's routine. 

And what about the afternoon cup of tea ? If 
strictly limited to this, and it does not partake of 
the nature of a meal — even of a light one — it may 
be allowable. There are strict rules to be observed 
in the brewing of the tea. But if the patient be 
dyspeptic, reform will, as a rule, have to commence 
with the abolition of this pseudo-meal ; and in the 
vast majority of cases the taking even of a small 
quantity of food with the tea will do harm, by 
taking off the edge of the appetite for dinner. To 
he taken thrice daily, the familiar formula of the 
prescription, should be written largo in the refectoiy 
or dining-room. 



>. 



CHAPTER II. 

KINDS OF DIET. 

" Van Swieten has justly said that * to assert a thing to be 
wholesome without a knowledge of the condition of the person for 
whom it is intended, is like a sailor pronouncing the wind to be 
fair without knowing to what port the vessel is bound.* " — Paris, 
"Treatise on Diet," fifth edition, p. 222. 

Of what shall the meals consist ? and what shall the 
quantities be which we should take ? These are the 
second and first questions in the diet problem which 
we have already put ; the third question, as to the 
times of taking food, has just been briefly touched 
upon. It is the object of this book to consider 
in detail the questions of quahty and quantity, 
but we may, with advantage, set forth here some 
generalities. 

And first, Avith regard to quantity : we may say 
that in health the appetite will regulate better 
than the scales; for no fixed routine of diet can 



22 DIET AND COOKERY 

meet so satisfactorily the varying needs of the body 
as that varying quantity, appetite, the inconstancy 
of which they themselves occasion. The laws of sup- 
ply and demand vary, not only with each organism, 
but they fluctuate from day to day. Of the needs 
of the body the appetite is the expression, and the 
digestive powers will prove equal to the performance 
of the task which it imposes. It is true we are told 
to leave off the meal " with an appetite," and that 
this maxim will be found to be a reliable guide in 
many ways ; but it is hard to put in practice, and 
it is by no means certain that it is the whole truth. 
The fact is, we can carry on our diet at two levels — 
a lower and a higher — and still be within the bounds 
of moderation and retain our health. It is also a 
fact that sustained effort can be made on the lower- 
diet level. But there is something more than sus- 
tained effort to be considered. There is that other 
something which we denominate " Go," and which 
we may describe as tension ; this it is which occa- 
sions that unrest of mind or body which impels the 
organism, and which underhes much enterprise. 
Now, there are some reasons for believing that the 
higher diet-level favours the development of " Go," 



FOB COMMOy AILMENTS. 23 

of which we can make a right or a wrong use ; and 
it is unquestionable that high diet depends for its 
stimulant character perhaps as much on the quan- 
tity as the quality of the food. When we speak of 
high feeding, we do not mean the use of spices and 
the thousand-and-one incentives which the cook's 
art invents ; we refer neither to the gourmand nor 
the gourmet. We simply mean a reasonable satis- 
fying of the appetite (not a " surfeit of lampreys "), 
as against the use of the curb-rein. The saint has 
mostly chosen the latter method ; but the busy, 
energetic, practical, and enterprising worker in all 
departments of industry may, without being a 
sinner, find that life at its high level of activity 
is best maintained on the high level of diet. It 
is probably impossible to dogmatise on these points ; 
there is truth in both directions. 

In disease, on the other hand, the scales will 
often have to be put against the appetite ; and 
notably is this the case in the graver forms ot 

illness. 

What are the quantities which the scales and 
the measure declare to be necessary to the support 
of Hfe, when the appetite no longer guides us ? This 



24 DIET AND COOKERY 

will depend upon the quality of the food, and we 
shall therefore pass to this subject. 

Van Swieten, in the dictum we have quoted, 
says well what the proverb says more tersely: 
"One man's meat is another man's poison." As 
usual, this is the proverbial half-truth ; for, taking 
mankind en Tnasse, one man's meat is another 
man's meat. It is with exceptional states, how- 
ever, that we deal, and for these the proverb has 
much force, and we must bear it constantly in mind 
whilst reading the following general statements. In 
a minority of cases they may not apply. We now 
propose to consider seriatim the more important 
articles of diet, and we shall do this on the following 
plan — viz. we shall begin with those articles of diet 
which are most easily borne, and thence we shall 
proceed up the scale till we reach the full dietary 
of the healthy adult. 

MILK. 

This is a complete food, which suffices the 
infant in the first months of life, and which 
all through life may be taken, as a rule, with advan- 
rage, and to which in crises we may revert as the 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 25 

sole article of diet. If you are in doubt, give milk : 
this is safe doctrine. 

By simple methods or observations we can 
show that milk is a compound food. If it stand, 
globules of fat rise and form the layer of cream, 
which we can skim off. If it go sour, or we add 
rennet under suitable conditions, we separate a 
substance known as curd, and which belongs to the 
class of albuminous compounds. At the same time 
that the curd separates out, the whey does so also. 
This whey is a thin liquid with a sweetish taste, the 
sweetness being due to the presence of a sugar, 
called sugar of milk. It is this saccharine sub- 
stance which in the formation of Koumiss or Kefeer 
ferments. Whey, further, contains certain salts. 
We see, thus, each class of aliment represented 
— fats, albuminous bodies, sugars, and lastly, 
salines. 

The importance of this knowledge of the com- 
position of milk is that it enables us to modify milk, 
should occasion arise, by withdrawing this or that 
constituent which may not be deemed suitable, or 
by altering in some way these constituents. 

To apply this, let us suppose that the milk 



fiS DIET AND COOKERY 

disagree either with the infant or the adult. We 
may proceed as follows : — 

(1) We may boil the milk and remove the skin 
(curd) which forms. By this means we render the 
milk more digestible. Repetition of the act a second 
or third time may be advantageous. 

(2) We may dilute the milk with water or 
barley-water, rice mucilage, a weak solution of 
isinglass, or white of egg. In this way we lessen 
the concentration of the milk, and the curd tends 
to separate in smaller floccules. Of diluents, barley- 
water is probably the best. 

(3) We may dilute and add an alkali — e.g. a 
few grains of bicarbonate of soda to the pint ot 
milk — or lime-water, from two or three tablespoon- 
fuis to the pint up to one-third part, or even one- 
half We tend thus to correct any sour tendencies 
of the stomach, and probably also beneficially affect 
the form of separation of the curd. 

(4) We may combine Avith the alkali some 
simple carminative, such as cinnamon- water. 

(5) We may give some stimulant, brandy or 
rum, in quantities from a few drops, for the infant, 
up to teaspoon-, dessert-, or tablespoonful doses. 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS, 27 

(6) If the stomach, thus assisted, cannot digest 
the milk, we may assist by pre-digesting it: a 
process which we term peptonising. Benger's 
Hquor pancreaticus or Fairchild's zymine, among 
many other preparations, may serve for this 
purpose. 

In aU these operations the element in milk 
which we regard with most suspicion is the curd, 
and hence another course open to us, should one 
milk disagree, is to change it for another less rich 
in curd. Arranged in descending order of digesti- 
biUty, we have goat's milk (least digestible), cow's 
milk, ass's milk, and human milk (most diges- 
tible). As far as curd-richness is concerned, the 
order will be reversed; for goat's milk is richest 
in curd, ass's and human milk least rich. Ass's 
milk comes nearest in composition to human milk ; 
it contains even less casein (curd). A milk ap- 
proaching the composition of human milk is now 
prepared artificially on a large scale from cow'a 
milk, and known as humanised milk. Ass's milk 
is prohibitively dear. 

Should the selection of another milk not help us 
we must then try an incoviplete milk — e.g. we may 



28 DIET AND COOKERY 

remove the cream or butter from the milk — skim 
milk, butter Tnilk ; or we may further remove the 
curd and drink the Avhey. To the whey we may 
return the cream which we have removed before 
curdUng the milk, or we may withhold it. To such 
incomplete milk we may apply any of the pro- 
cedures which we have just enumerated as applic- 
able to whole milk. 

Should all these means fail, we should never 
omit to give Koumiss (also called rnilk-wine 
and milk-brandy) a trial. It is a most excel- 
lent modification of milk, and is at times tolerated 
when nothing else is ; there is present about two per 
cent, of alcohol Supposing milk is borne, but we 
do not wish to advance beyond it, we may, to vary 
the monotony, safely give it in the form of junket ; 
for the curdling will of necessity take place in the 
stomach, and to perform this operation beforehand 
can do no harm. Moreover, the patient has the 
satisfaction of partaking of solid or semi-solid 
food, liquid food not counting in his eyes as 
nourishment. 

But suppose that milk is not only tolerated, but 
that, whilst unwilling to advance beyond it, we wish 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS, 29 

to add to its nutrient powers. In such case we 
may enrich it by the addition of cream, or we may 
effect the same more cheaply by immersing in the 
milk some mutton suet enclosed in a muslin baof, 
and simmering the whole. This should be done 
tentatively as to quantity, beginning with, say, a 
heaped teaspoonful or less of chopped suet to the 
pint of milk, and advancing to larger quantities 
so long as the stomach is not averse and the milk 
appears to be digested. Such milk may be de- 
scribed as super-added milk. 

And the quantities ? If a hand-fed infant of 
six weeks old be receiving and digesting half to 
three-quarters of a pint of good cow's milk, pro- 
perly diluted, we need not be unhappy — at least till 
the doctor comes ; and in like manner, if an adult, 
resting, is taking as his sole food between three and 
four pints of milk in the day, we may be quite 
content ; we should ourselves favour the lower 
rather than the higher limit. It has been 
Slated that there is as much nourishment in 
a pint of milk as in a good-sized chop, and it is 
probable that the estimate does not over-state the 
relation. 



m DIET AND COOKERY 

MEAT BROTHS. 

The next article of diet which we may always 
give safely is meat broth. This may be pre- 
pared from beef, mutton, veal, or chicken. Beef- 
tea is the best representative of the group, and is 
much more largely used than any of the others. 
These infusions represent very different nutritive 
values, even when prepared from the same meat, 
according to the mode of preparation. As usually 
made with boiling water, however prolonged the 
boiling or however slowly the temperature is raised 
to the boiling point, the most nourishing portions 
of the meat — the albumens — are coagulated and 
left behind, the water taking from the meat its salts, 
certain complex bodies called extractives and gela- 
tine, and no more. These principles, however, 
neither singly nor in combination, can support life. 
This has been abundantly proved for gelatine by 
widely-extended experiments, which, starting with 
the preconceived notion that the gelatine con- 
tained in soups was the only nourishing part of the 
soup, has yet been unable to establish the fact. 
The subject was most fully gone into during the 
early years of the French Revolution, when the 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 31 

question of the most economical means of efficiently 
feeding the army and the people was of national 
importance. Neither preconceived notion, then, 
nor the urgency of a drained exchequer, have 
been able to convert gelatine into a complete food 
Yet it has a value ; which modem science has pro- 
claimed to be that of protecting or replacing those 
albuminous bodies which would otherwise suffer 
decomposition within the tissues. 

It is important that this should be realised; 
for we all start with the conviction that the 
nutritive value of our meat extract is established 
when it sets to form a jelly ; nay, more — that it 
is proportional to the stiffness of the jelly. Let 
it be clearly understood that gelatine has a value 
as a food, but it is not in itself a complete food, 
nor does it become such when the stimulant 
qualities of salts and extractives are associated 
with it. It is in this latter respect, perhaps, that 
the broths are of chief value — viz, in their refresh- 
ing or stimulant powers ; and at the risk of being 
paradoxical, we would say that in a sense the value 
of meat broths depends upon their low nutritive 
powers; for, being rapidly absorbed and readily 



92 DIET AND GOOEERY 

dealt with in the tissues, they tax very slightly 
the powers of assimilation. They thus bring their 
sthnulant action to bear at very little cost, so to 
speak; and in a manner we take a cup of strong 
beef-tea much as we would take a dose of alcohol : 
in the majority of cases we shall do so with much 
more benefit. 

The combination of beef-tea with milk thus con- 
stitutes an excellent diet, which is specially adapted 
to meet grave states of depression. Ad interim, 
such may always be given with perfect safety. As 
to quantity, three pints of milk and a pint of strong 
beef-tea would constitute a sufficient dietary for an 
adult. 

But should milk in all its forms disagree — and 
such cases arise both in infancy and adult life — we 
may, by adopting certain precautions, obtain in the 
liquid form from meat a much more nourishing 
food than any form of meat broth. 

(1) Beef- tea may be made in the ordinary wa}^ 
and then to this fluid we may add varying quanti- 
ties of raw meat which has been reduced to the 
finest pulp by scraping, soaking in water, pounding 
in a mortar, and then rubbing through a fine-wire 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 33 

sieve. With the addition of a little salt, such an 
admixture is very palatable, the taste of the raw 
meat being effectually disguised. The beef-tea, 
when the meat-pulp is added to it, must not be 
very hot, or the albumen of the pulp will be co- 
agulated, but it may be warmed : the mixture is 
very suitably taken cold or iced. As to proportions, 
we may feel our way gradually ; but it will be 
found that one ounce of pulp mixes well with two 
ounces of beef-tea. The stimulant effects of such 
supplemented beef-tea would be first felt, and upon 
this would follow the assimilation of the meat. 

(2) By means of a ferment — e.g. pepsine or pan- 
creatine — and moderating the temperature, we can 
straightway produce a liquid which as a food has 
a high nutritive value. The albuminous bodies of 
the meat are, by such means, largely converted 
into forms ready for absorption. Such broth is 
described as peptonised: it is stimulant, highly 
nutritive, and readily assimilable. 

There are a few good commercial preparations 
of peptonised meats. 

(3) By means of common salt and soaking in 
cold water, with subsequent pressure and careful 



M DIET AND COOKERY 

filtration, we can obtain from meat a fluid containing 
some of the albumens in solution. This is of the 
nature of a dilute meat-juice. By the addition of an 
acid — e.g. hydrochloric acid — we may facilitate the 
extraction of the meat. This fluid must not be 
heated. 

Here will come the long list, daily increas- 
ing, of meat-juices, fluid meats, and meat extracts, 
etc. They are, some of them, valuable adjuvants ; 
but in the case of many, if the attempt be made to 
rely on them alone, we shall need to give quanti- 
ties which would risk poisoning the patient with 
extractives. In other words, these preparations are 
disproportionately rich in extractives and salts. 
Their proper place is that of auxiliary stimulants, 
and they require to be cautiously selected. To credit 
all the wonderful things said about them we must 
be possessed of much faith, of the kind which has 
been defined as that gift or power which enables us 
to believe that which we know to be impossible. And 
to think that they are to be obtained from common 
meat ! 

Clear meat soups belong to the category of broths ; 
bones are generally made use of as part of the stock, 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. .^ 

and such soups contain more gelatine than where 
meat alone is used. Gelatine, we have seen, is 
valuable as an ingredient, and soups of this kind 
may in most cases be allowed, even to very dehcate 
stomachs. Soups thickened with meal of various 
kinds are less digestible, but the use of such will 
be considered later. Vegetables are frequently 
added to soups, but in the invalid state they are 
often inadmissible. On the other hand, a flavour- 
ing of herbs might be advantageously used much 
more than it is ; and for this purpose vegetable 
essences are convenient, though we may readily 
use the vegetables themselves by enclosing them 
in a mushn bag, and boiling them thus along 
with the soup. We must be prepared to with- 
hold these flavourings should there be the least 
intimation of difficulty of digestion. 

Meat jellies and calf s-foot jellies will rank with 
liquid rather than with solid foods : their solidity 
is, perhaps, as much feigned as is the fluidity ot 
milk. Gelatine is the constituent which causes the 
setting of the liquid into the jelly state. We may 
try these preparations, therefore, during the stage 
of slop diet if the patient feel any desire for them ; 



36 DIET AND OOOKERT 

but in general, where there is much disturbance 
and debility of the alimentary system, there is an 
aversion for all kinds of solid food, and even for 
their simulacra, and hence the jellies are usually 
put aside till commencing convalescence. 

EGGS. 

The addition of eggs to the diet will consti- 
tute the next advance. Egg is a complete food 
for the embryo bird,^ and it is highly nutritious to 
man. The contents of the shell are easily separable 
into the two parts : white and yolk. The former 
is little else than a solution of albumen ; the latter, 
besides a modification of albumen, contains much 
fat. The starchy and saccharine group is scarcely 
represented in either. There are various salts. It 
is estimated that an average fowl's egg will con- 
tain about as much albumen and fat as a quarter 
of a pint of milk ; but then the milk will contain 
sugar as well. It is also reckoned to be the equi- 
valent of rather under an ounce and a half of fat 

* This etatement must be held to apply to the whole egg, 
shell and all : for during incubation the earthy salts of the shell 
are to a large extent dissolved and incorporated. 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 37 

meat. Computations have been made as to the 
number of eggs which, as sole dietary, would have 
to be taken to cover the needs of the organism for 
albumen, and it has been set down as twenty; this 
for a healthy man. 

Eggs raw or lightly-boiled are easily digested, 
but hard-boiled they are indigestible."^ In the latter 
form they tend to constipate, whilst raw they are 
laxative. In the raw or lightly-boiled egg the 
white is the more digestible part ; the yolk is less 
so, owing to the richness in fat and the greater 
concentration of the aliment. In the hard-boiled 
state the white is the more indigestible. The yolk 
is, of course, more nourishing than the white. 

We may make use of either part of the egg 
separately : this will be analogous to the use of the 
several forms of incomplete milk already men- 
tioned. Demme's solution of white of egg consists 
of a dilute solution of the white, with a little sugar 
and cognac, t This fluid is of much value in the 

* This is the current view amongst both medical men and the 
laity, but one accomplished physician, an authority in dietetics, 
recommends the hard-boiled egg to his patients. 

t The whites of two eggs to a pint and a half of water, with 
the addition of a little sugar and cognac. 



88 DIET AND COOKERY 

treatment of irritable states of the stomach and 
intestines in infants, and it may for a short time 
replace milk. In similar states of the body at all 
ages it would be useful. In like manner the yolk 
of egg may be broken up, with hot water and sugar 
and orange-flower water added, or cognac or rum. 
This is the lait de poule* In the British Pharma- 
copoeia the mixture of spirit of French wine is an 
egg-flip in which the yolks are used. 

The whole egg — white and yolk — or the yolk 
alone, is frequently administered beaten up in 
milk, with or without the addition of a stimulant — 
e.g. brandy. The yolk of egg, or the whole egg, 
may be conveniently smuggled into the cup of tea 
or coffee where these are permissible. 

The curious phenomenon of idiosyncracy or 
individual susceptibility is very pronounced for 
eggs, some people being unable to take them in 
any form. 

Thus far we have described what is usually 
spoken of as slop diet — milk, broths, eggs (raw or 
very lightly boiled). Perhaps we ought to exclude 

• Yeo : " Food in Health and Disease." 



FOR COM^ION AIL3IENTS. 39 

the latter (eggs) when cooked, however Hghtly. 
Such food, being of the hghtest kind, may be given 
at frequent intervals, according to the maxim 
" little and often." At times it must be so given ; 
but whenever, even on this diet, we can safely 
stretch out the intervals, and administer small 
meals, so to speak, we should do so. 

Included under the heading slop diet are a 
variety of farinaceous preparations — e.g. arrowroot, 
cornflour, gruel, barley-water and barley-jelly, rice- 
water, bread-jelly, etc. These preparations are mu- 
cilaginous and very bland, or demulcent, as it is 
technically called. Rice-water, barley-water, and 
water-arrowroot are the best of them, and if made 
thin can be borne in most cases ; but the others do 
not diminish, but rather add to, the difficulty oi 
digestion, and chiefly because of the fermentable 
character of the starch which is their principal 
constituent. They tend to produce flatulence. 
Soups thickened by means of flour or such-like 
are, therefore, less digestible than clear soups. 
The meal obtained from peas, lentils, etc., is 
highly nutritious, but very unsuitable for weak 
stomachs. 



40 DIET AND COOKERY 

Where the stomach is able to cope with these 
additions the general nutrition will be the gainer ; 
in these cases we shall find that milk or broths will 
bear thickening with tapioca or sago, and probably 
that rice, well boiled, may be taken. From milk 
thus thickened we pass, by easy stages, to milk- 
puddings, which we can have more or less milky, to 
taste. The addition of eggs to such puddings 
increases decidedly the difficulty of digestion, 
and they should not be allowed, therefore, at 
first. 

We should add that the most suitable drinks 
for quenching thirst during the slop-diet stage will 
be: water (iced or not), a thin barley-water or rice- 
water, or the old-fashioned toast- and-water. We 
may sweeten slightly and flavour with lemon-peel 
the first three drinks, if this be fancied. Whey is 
sometimes liked, and it has the advantage of 
slight nutritive properties. Plain water — sip- 
ping hot — will in not a few cases be found 
very comforting and thirst-quenching ; it obviates 
the " floods of wash," which appease only tempo- 
rarily the thirst and cause discomfort to the 
stomach. 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 41 

FISH. 

The next step will be from slop diet to solid 
food. Fish is the lightest form of solid aliment, and 
we commence, therefore, with this. We may sum 
up briefly the principal points about fish diet : — 

(1) The fish should be white-fleshed — e.g. whit- 
ing, cod, flounder, plaice, sole, haddock, brill, turbot. 
The whiting has earned for itself the title, " chicken 
of the sea " (Paris) ; and deservedly. In the above 
list the turbot is probably the least digestible, 
because of the firmness of its fibre. The viscid 
gelatinous skin of fish is not reckoned so digestible 
as the flesh itself. 

Various opinions are held about the value of 
oysters : they are certainly nutritious, and they 
generally count as digestible. Dr. Paris considers 
they have been over-estimated; still, on occasion 
we may give them the benefit of the doubt and try 
them. They should not be cooked. 

For those who can eat and digest herrings, 
mackerel, eels, salmon, there will be no sympathy 
found in these pages. 

(2) Boiled fish is the most easy of digestion. 



42 DIET AND COOKERY 

Broiled or grilled fish comes next. Fried fish is 
least suitable. In boiling fish, hard or salt water 
should be used. 

(3) Salt is an indispensable accessory to fish diet. 

Fish in general, and in particular the more 
digestible kinds, is very non-stimulant. In this it 
contrasts with meat. For this reason we may 
with advantage add to the dietary a little strong 
and clear soup, and this should precede the fish. 

We have now reached the stage of smaU meals 
at definite intervals, and we are, of course, per- 
mitted to include in the dietary all those articles 
and preparations of food which we have previously 
enumerated. Milk puddings — e.g. of rice, sago, 
tapioca — custard (boiled), jellies : these may serve 
to select from. Small quantities of stale bread, of 
thin dry toast, and of sponge-fingers, will probably 
be allowable. 

For drink : water, plain, or if need be quahfied 
with a little good spirit (preferably whisky) — 
Mynheer Van Dunck's method not to be adopted 
— a sound claret, a Burgundy, or even a httle dry 
sherry. 

Tea, coffee, cocoa : shall we allow these ? Much 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 43 

will depend on previous habits and tolerance, 
natural or acquired ; but in general cotfee is least 
suitable ; tea will come next ; cocoa will be the best. 
If tea be taken, it should be weak and infused quite 
freshly, and for not more than two or three minutes. 
If cocoa be selected, we should use an infusion of 
the nibs as the best form : its bitterness and thin- 
ness will generally prove acceptable.* 

BIRDS. 

Ascending the scale, we next proceed to meats ; 
and first the flesh of birds. Of the fowl, guinea- 
fowl and turkey, the flesh is white, delicate, and 
easy of digestion, and we may select one or other 
with advantage. Fowl is in much demand, and 
may be said to be almost the piece de resistance of 
invalid dietary. Such food is but little stimulant. 
The flesh of ducks and geese is much more tasty, 
but it is correspondingly more difficult of diges- 
tion, the fibre being harder and richer : it is not 
permissible. The flesh of game is more stimu- 
lating than that of white-fleshed poultry, and it 

♦ Tea or cocoa will often be permissible during the stage of 
purely slop diet. 



4A DIET AND COOKERY 

possesses more flavour, at the same time it is 
nearly as digestible, and sometimes even more so. 
This quality it owes in part to the absence of fat, 
and in part, probably, to the appetite which it pro- 
vokes. The partridge, pheasant, and, perhaps, 
quail are good examples of this class ; some con- 
sider quail too rich for invalids. 

The pigeon ranks neither as poultry nor as 
game ; it may be kept in reserve to relieve monotony. 

The flesh from the breast or wings of birds 
should be chosen, as the most delicate. Boiling 
and roasting — in the latter case with free basting — 
are the best modes of cooking birds. 

In the case of birds, as in that of fish, the more 
digestible are those which contain least fat. 

Hare and rabbit are generally classed along 
with birds rather than with butcher's meat. Hare 
is very flavoursome, and when young it is counted 
fairly digestible. It is a stimulating diet. On the 
whole, it is best reserved until it can be taken in aU 
its glory of seasoning and accessories. From the 
point of view of the invalid, rabbit is perhaps more 
suitable, though at best it is but an indifferent sort 
of food. 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 45 

butchers' meat. 

We reach the last stage in our progress at the 
shambles, and henceforward, by the help of a few 
precepts, trust to be well rid of the invalid 
state. 

The most digestible of the meats is mutton : its 
fibre is darker and less tender than that of lamb, 
but in spite of this it is generally admitted to be 
more digestible. Lamb is hence more for the epi- 
cure than the invalid, and it is its tenderness which 
makes it the honne houche, for it possesses less 
flavour than mutton ; it is also less stimulant. 

Beef comes decidedly after mutton in point of 
digestibility, being of much firmer texture. It 
ranks as more stimulating ; and that this is a true 
estimate is, we think, sufficiently evidenced by the 
much greater stimulant powers of beef-tea than 
of mutton-broth. 

Veal compares with beef as lamb does with 
mutton : it is both less strengthening and less 
assimilable. It, like lamb, is more gelatinous than 
the flesh of the older animal. 

Pork is wholly unsuitable for the invalid, 



46 DIET AND COOKERY 

but bacon, curiously, is more digestible than 
pork, and may on occasion be allowed to the 
dyspeptic. 

Venison is disqualified by its high flavour, 
though, as Pavy points out, its fibre is easily di- 
gested. It compares with mutton as game does 
with chicken. 

Salted meats are not digestible, nor are cured 
meats in general, though bacon, as we have said, 
occupies an exceptional position. We would warn 
against cured tongue, in particular. 

Certain parts of the animal are specially selected 
as articles of diet ; but for the invalid we need only 
mention two — the sweetbread of the calf (there are 
two varieties of sweetbread) and tripe. Sweetbread, 
simply dressed and cooked, is very tender and 
suitable for the invalid ; its want of flavour is one 
qualification, its friable texture another. Tripe 
is reckoned digestible, but for the invalid the fat 
should be removed. The structure of sweetbread 
— and, one may also say, of tripe — is quite different 
from that of the meats. 

As to cooking, boiling in general gives a 
more insipid, but a less rich, and therefore more 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 47 

digestible, food than roasting. Baking is not so 
good a method of cooking. 

VEGETABLES AND FRUITS. 

Vegetables and fruits remain for consideration. 
As a class, vegetables come late into the 
dietary, the majority of them requiring vigorous 
digestive powers. For this reason the pea and 
bean tribe must be excluded from the invalid 
dietary, though the pulses, as they are termed, 
are highly nutritious.^ The difference, however, in 
digestibility between very young green peas and 
those which have reached " a certain age " is 
striking. Esculent roots and tubers, turnips, car- 
rots, parsnips, Jerusalem artichokes, must also be 
excluded as decidedly indigestible. Of esculent 
vegetable - fruits, some count the marrow as di- 
gestible ; but this sub-class, which further includes 
the cucumber (cooked, of course) and the tomato, 

* This statement is perhaps too absolute, for certain of the pulso 
meals modified somewhat by preparation, constitute both a nutri- 
tious and digestible food, and thus the Revalenta Arabica, which 
consists chiefly of lentil meal, suits well some invalid states. After 
all, this is to some extent a prepared food. 



46 DIET AND COOKERY 

is of doubtful advisability. The green vegetables 
may be admitted in part ; the best will be cauli- 
flower and broccoli, Brussels sprouts, spinach : 
these should be plainly boiled. When cooked, 
seakale and celery will prove very wholesome and 
digestible ; and we must not omit boiled lettuce. 

Of all vegetables, one of the first to be admitted 
will be the potato, in the floury or mealy state. In 
no other state is it permissible. This is best 
brought about by roasting the potato in its skin : 
mashing does not contribute to the digestibility. 
In some dyspeptic states, however, potatoes must 
be entirely forbidden. Potatoes vary much in 
size, and to allow " roast potato " does not imply 
consent to a whole potato. When vegetables are 
admitted, it must be in great moderation. 

An excellent substitute for vegetables will be 
plain boiled rice, eaten, with salt, along with the 
meat. 

We shall not forget that, where vegetables and 
herbs are not permitted, their flavourings, as ob- 
tained by means of essences, may be allowed. Of 
this we have already spoken. 

Condiments are mostly employed at the meat 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 49 

and vegetable course. They are, for the most part, 
not required in health; but where digestion is 
sluggish they sometimes supply that degree of 
stimulation which the plain food fails to supply, 
and in this way they promote digestion. This 
is the philosophy of condiments. We avoid 
their use as much as possible in invalid cookery. 
Salt, of course, is not a condiment: it is always 
m place. 

Fruits. — The dessert is a superfluity which re- 
quires health to enjoy and digest. The old saying 
that fruit is gold in the morning and lead at night 
has much of truth ; and even in health we hold 
the dessert to be, at the least, unnecessary. The 
invalid with weak digestion must forego fruit, with 
few exceptions. 

Stone fruits are the least digestible as a class ; 
but the ripe peach may sometimes be allowed, and 
sometimes the apricot ; the skins will, of course, be 
avoided. 

The apple, however ripe, is not to be thought of, 
but the pear may, on occusion, be considered. 

The small-seeded fruits— the ripe strawberry 



60 DIET AND COOKERY 

and raspberry in particular — are among the most 
wholesome, according to Paris. 

The orange is permissible in most cases; but 
we must carefully reject the white or inner skin, 
and, better still, we shall only crush the fruit in 
the mouth, and swallow the juice, leaving the 
pulp. 

Grapes, avoiding the skins and the seeds, are 
suitable in nearly all cases. The orange and the 
grape, with these quahfications, are undoubtedly 
the safest. 

Nuts of all kinds we need only mention to insist 
upon their harmfulness. 

" By cookery, fruit otherwise unwholesome may 
be converted into a safe and useful aliment" 
(Paris). In particular, the baked apple must be 
mentioned. 

Bread, etc. — Bread may form an accompaniment 
of every article of diet, itself being a valuable food. 
We have already touched upon its use, but we may 
here add that for the invalid we shall choose white 
bread ; that the lighter varieties are the best ; that 
the bread shall be sufficiently stale to crumble in 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS, 51 

the mouth when masticated : if it mass itself to- 
gether it is unsuitable, for the juices of the ah- 
mentary tract can then penetrate it only with diffi- 
culty. Toasted in the form of thin shoes, its 
digestibihty is improved, and this is a ready way 
of making stale bread palatable. 

Wheaten flour in the form of rusks, of tops 
and bottoms, and of some of the lighter plain bis- 
cuits, is digestible. Some of the lighter and drier 
sponge cakes are also of value. 

No other forms should be allowed. Baked and 
boiled pastry are very unwholesome. Cakes of 
all kinds are bad. Batter puddings and pancakes 
are very unsuitable, and even macaroni is not easy 
of digestion. 

As to the whole-meal bread, much nonsense 
has been Avritten about it. No doubt it is more 
nutritious, if the question be of hving solely on 
white or brown bread ; but with a mixed diet we 
can easily supply all that the body needs, and 
forego that most indigestible husk, with the small 
quantity of albuminoid nutriment which adheres 
to it. With some, however, the husk seems to 
partake ot the nature of a conscience clause. 



52 DIET AND COOKERY 

FOOD AND AGE. 

The foregoing is a sketch only, the outlines of 
which will require filling up for each individual. 
We shall now proceed to consider in detail certain 
states of body — vices of the system, acquired or in- 
herited — for which special dietaries have been estab- 
lished by experience. Before we do this, however, 
let us consider if, in the natural course of events, 
the stages — infancy, adolescence, maturity, decay — 
require special dietetic treatment. These stages are 
essentially of health ; and we have as Httle right to 
term morbid the downward path of old age, when 
vitality is on the wane, as we are justified in 
applying the same term to the growing stage of 
childhood, when vitality is on the increase. Still, 
though they are of health, yet we may with advan- 
tage give them brief attention. 

During the edentulous period of infancy the 
menu of the hand-fed infant is, or should be, 
charmingly simple : milk, complete or incomplete, 
modified or unmodified, is the sole dietary. We 
have said enough already on this subject, but we 
may add that when milk, modified in various waysi 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 53 

cannot be digested, the condition is distinctly 
morbid, and the treatment should be in the hands 
of the doctor. 

When the teeth begin to appear, although they 
are yet unfit for masticating purposes, we may 
admit into the dietary some farinaceous food — e.g. 
one or other of the patent " prepared " foods or 
meals, biscuits, bread, jelly, etc. The quantities 
will be, as a rule, under advice, and we need not 
specify further. 

A little broth or beef-tea, a small quantity of 
milk-pudding, some lightly-boiled egg, a little 
gravy with potato or bread-crumbs, some scraped 
or pounded meat, boiled white fish, etc. : by these 
advances we shall proceed up to the age of two 
years; but during the whole of this period the 
staple article will be milk. 

From two years onward, mth a mouth full of 
eager teeth which should be taught the full value 
of mastication, we shall for some years longer yet 
rely on milk as in the first rank of suitable foods, 
and especially during the years of active growth. 
As a reminder of this, we may recall the name, 
" milk-teeth," for the first set. Indeed, all through 
c 



54 DIET AND COOKERY 

life, if milk can be enjoyed and taken in quantity 
not less than a pint a day, it will form, so to speak, 
an excellent basis. Of one gentleman, to our know- 
ledge, whose fondness for milk was explained as 
the result of his never having been properly 
weaned, this taste must certainly be reckoned 
among his virtues. 

The permanent teeth begin to replace the milk 
Bet from the seventh year onwards. These are 
meant for serious use on the plainer kinds of food : 
bread, potatoes, milk-puddings, eggs, plainly-dressed 
meats, bacon, fat, butter, vegetables, fruits : and 
from such materials we can build up the tissues 
of our bodies ; but all through the period of child- 
hood and adolescence it would be a very wise 
practice to introduce milk in fair quantity, either 
alone or with porridge, cocoa, coffee, tea, or in milk- 
puddings. This will hold still more strongly if 
there be any chest delicacy. 

In adult life milk loses its importance — i.e. we 
can do without it more easily ; but we shall never 
do amiss with it. 

In advanced life we approach another edentu- 
lous period, which is supposed to indicate that we 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 55 

should fall back on tlie softer foods of childhood. 
Whether this is meant or not, it is difficult to say : 
the dentist " has changed all this," both in respect 
of the physiognomy of age and, in a sense, the 
habits. Perhaps the chief indication of this period 
of life is temperance — the moderata diceta or third 
physician of the school of Salerno. As to quality, 
it is probable that meat is less needed. It was the 
famous Dr. Caius who in old age returned to the 
food of infancy. 

During the early years of life the quantity of 
food supplied should be, if anything, in excess of 
the bare needs of the body. It should be what 
is technically called a " luxus " supply : the mea- 
sure should overflow ; in this way the tissues which 
are growing in size and energy secure their maxi- 
mum of vitahty. 

During the later years we shall pursue an oppo- 
site path, for fear of encumbering with waste pro- 
ducts those tissues whose vitahty, both for assimi- 
lation and excretion, is impaired. 

Beyond this broad statement as to quantity we 
need not go ; for in other respects the conditions 
are of health, and with simple foods, the appetite 



66 DIET AND COOKERY 

will guide correctly. But perhaps we ought to 
caution that in very early life, as also in very late 
life, the vital powers are low, and, therefore, the 
resistance small. Under these circumstances we 
ought, if in doubt, to administer food which in 
adult life, in a similar perplexity, we should with- 
hold. Provided the food is readily assimilable, the 
" little and often" maxim may then have some 
scope in old age as it has in infancy : we shall be 
temperate, it is true — we must not be Spartan. 

ALCOHOL. 

The subject of age gives us the opportunity 
for saying a few words on the alcohol ques- 
tion. We shall treat this matter from a phy- 
siological point of view only ; for the moral question 
— interesting as it may be, and imperative as it 
may be — is not for us. There may be reasons of 
this kind which shall command us, under circum- 
stances, to forego the advantages of alcohol, if it 
be advantageous : each must settle this point for 
him or herself The plain question before us is : 
Is alcohol advantageous physiologically ? 

There will be some gain if it can be shown that 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 57 

the use of alcohol is not unreasonable. For the 
moment we will put aside the question whether 
alcohol undergoes combustion within the tissues, 
and to this extent is a heat-producer and veritable 
food ; we will regard it simply as a stimulant — i.e. 
as a substance which enables us to unlock the 
forces stored up in the tissues — to realise them, so 
to speak. Can we, from such a use of alcohol, 
expect to get any good ? At once it will be urged, 
if it unlocks the forces of the tissues, the benefit 
which it brings will be at the expense of the 
economy, and it is hard to see how a drained ex- 
chequer can be replenished by means such as these, 
which take just as much as they give. A steam- 
engine which has an insufficient supply of coals for 
the journey to be done, will hardly succeed in com- 
passing its task by having all its remainmg supply 
of fuel cast on the fire at once. But whilst this 
will hold true so far as the whole journey is 
concerned, such an engine, whose fires had burned 
low, might, by an apparently rash expenditure of 
what remained to it of fuel, get up steam sufficient to 
reach a neighbouring coaling-station — a feat which 
would be quite impossible if the fires were fed with 



58 DIET AND COOKERY 

a more parsimonious hand This is exactly the 
theory of the use of stimulants — neither more nor 
less : of themselves, they bring nothing to the body, 
and therefore of themselves they cannot perma- 
nently advantage it, but by the help of food they 
can reasonably aid the economy. Thus, let us sup- 
pose a patient exhausted by a prolonged fever or 
other illness, and just commencmg convalescence : 
food is given; but the powers are so feeble that 
digestion and assimilation are most imperfectly 
performed, and the organism, taxed by the effort, 
makes doubtful progress. The timely use of stimu- 
lants here, whilst they draw upon the small store 
of available force, yet excite a sufficient digestive 
reflex to start and carry through a satisfactory 
assimilation; and it will be then found that the 
organism is amply repaid by the influx of nutritive 
material for the expenditure which the stimulant 
caused. In just this way crises of prostration 
can be tided over which in no other way could be 
recovered from. It will be noted, then, that the 
use of stimulants can be reasonably defended as 
a timely expenditure of force which makes possible 
the utilisation of food. Food is in every case the 



FOE COMMON AILMENTS. 59 

true restorative, but stimulants may be necessary 
to its assimilation. Always, then, stimulants must 
be given in relation to the taking of food : this 
is the Veritas in vino which we must ever keep 
before us. 

But if alcohol be to some extent burnt up within 
the body, after the fashion of foods in general — and 
there is evidence in favour of a limited utiHsation 
of it in this sense — then a fortiori it will be of 
use. We would caution, however, against this 
view of the value of alcohol : it is, at best, a 
veiy poor food. 

There remains another aspect which the oppo- 
nents of alcohol lay stress upon : they say that the 
presence of alcohol in the alimentary tract impedes 
the digestive ferments, and therefore impedes diges- 
tion and assimilation. This is true in the test-tube 
and laboratory flask, when alcohol is added in 
quantity to the test fluids ; but it is not true even 
here for the lower percentages of alcohol additions, 
as is well shown by Sir WilUam Roberts, in his 
book on "Digestion and Diet"* Therefore, not 
even in the test-tube do these objections hold; 

"Digestion and Diet," p. 116 ; 1892. 



60 DIET AND COOKERY 

and, as William Hunter long since contended, 
" the stoniach is neither a mill, a fermenting-vat, 
nor a stew-pan" (nor, we may add, a test-tube), 
" but a stomach, gentlemen — a stomach."* 

After all, theory, no matter how plausible, 
must give way to experience; and to our minds 
this is distinctly in favour of a seasonable and 
reasonable use of stimulants. These should not 
be used in routine fashion; children should not 
be brought up accustomed to their use, however 
moderately, unless they do not thrive ; and it 
would be a wise precaution to abstain from admin- 
istering them then except on advice. As a very 
general rule, children are better without stimulants : 
we, of course, are not speaking of actual disease, t 
In adult life, as a digestive aid, alcohol taken at 
meals may be of great service ; on the other hand, 
It may be quite superfluous. In advanced Hfe 

• Fide Paris. 

t Henoch, a recognised authority on children's diseases, dis- 
cussing the means of nourishing infants in certain conditions of 
mal-nutrition, repeats the words of his teacher, Romberg, that the 
old Hungarian wine, Tokay, unadulterated, is not only a "lac 
senile " but a "lac juvenile." This wine thus qualified, is perhaps 
not very accessible. 



FOE COMMON AILMENTS. 61 

the moderate use of cordials may be very desirable ; 
and if moderation have prevailed till then, we need 
not fear their abuse. We would commend the 
word cordial to the consideration of our readers. 

As to the forms of alcohol which we should em- 
ploy, we possess in the following list a scale of 
strengths which mil meet all requirements. 

The ardent spirits: Brandy, whisky, gin, 

runx 
The more generous wines : Port, sherry, 

Madeira. 
The lighter wines : Burgundy, claret, hock, 

champagne. 
The malt liquors : Ale, porter, stout. 

Of the spirits, gin is the least likely to interfere 

with digestion (this appears from Sir W. Koberts's 

experiments on artificial digestion) ; but so long as 

the quantities are kept within small limits — e.g. 

two, or at most three, tablespoonfuls diluted with 

water, we shall look for an acceleration of digestion, 

and no interference. 

Sherry or port, in doses of one, or at most 
c* 



«2 DIET AND COOKERY, 

two, wine-glasses will act as pure stimulants to 
digestion. 

Of the lighter wines, the limit should be two 
small claret or hock glassfuls. Of malt liquors, a 
tumblerful 

People will, of course, differ in their powers of 
utilising alcohol in digestion; but the above are 
safe limitations, barring individual intolerances, 
which are sometimes very marked, and are found 
not infrequently for malt liquors. According to 
the above-quoted experiments, the retarding effects 
which large quantities of sherry, port, claret, hock, 
etc., exert on artificial digestion are quite out of 
proportion to the amount of alcohol present, and 
must therefore be due to other ingredients. 



CHAPTER III 

THE ARTICLES OF DIET. 

"The Worts, the Purslain, and the Messe of Watercresse.'*— 
Herrick (N'oble Numbers). 

We have seen that the nutritive principles may- 
be arranged in five classes — indeed, in four, if we 
exclude water — but the articles of diet, natural or 
prepared, which present these nutritive principles 
constitute a very formidable hst. To arrange them 
on scientific lines is very difficult ; for the articles 
of diet are rarely pure in the sense of containing 
only one class of nutritive principles, and opposing 
views may be taken as to whether we should place 
a given food here or there. The following list will, 
we trust, possess some practical value, and at the 
same time be not devoid of scientific method. In 
it, howev^, we shall not attempt to separate foods 
occurring naturally from foods prepared arti- 
ficially : the list is a hst of the things we eat 



64 DIET AND OOOKERY 

THE VEGETABLE KINGDOM. 

The Bread, Rice, and Potato Class. — The vari- 
ous forms of bread, white and brown (including 
biscuits and cakes), made from wheat, oats, rye, 
barley, maize, buckwheat ; all varieties oi flour pre- 
parations — e.g. pastries (pudding and tart), batters 
(pancakes, etc.), vermicelli, macaroni, semolina, corn- 
flour (from maize ; oswego and maizena are other 
names for the same thing) ; 'porridges and gruels. 

Rice, sago, tapioca, arrowroot. 

Potatoes. 

In this class we must put foods serving a similar 
purpose — e.g. the sweet potato, the yam, the bread- 
fruit, bananas and plantains, the chestnut, and, on 
historic grounds, the acom. 

The Pulses. — These occupy a position by them- 
selves, and they are represented by the matured 
seeds : Peas, beans (haricot and broad), and lentils. 

Sugar in various forms (crystalline, liquid: 
treacle), syrups, jams, preserves, honey, manna. 

Sugar is a nutritive principle, allied to starch and 
widely distributed among foods, in particular in 
vegetables and fruits ; but sugar by itself stands as 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS, 65 

an article of diet, whilst a number of food- sub- 
stances owe their dietetic value to the sugar with 
which they are prepared. Hence, for practical pur- 
poses there is a group of sugar-foods. 

The Vegetable Glass. — The potato is in a sense a 
vegetable, but in nutritive value it associates itself 
with the bread group and the rice group. The 
pulses are likewise vegetables ; but in the Tnature 
state their high nutritive value and the nature of 
their nutritive principles set them apart, and in 
proximity to both the bread and animal food 
classes. On the other hand, in the young and 
green state they return to the vegetable class. 

The pea group: Green peas, green haricots, 
broad beans (young), French beans (pod and seed). 

The lentil is not eaten in the unripe state. 

Green vegetables — the cabbage tribe : White and 
red cabbage, " greens," savoy, Brussels sprouts, cauli- 
flower, broccoH, broccoli sprouts, spinach, turnip- 
tops. 

Root vegetables : Carrots, parsnips, turnips, beet 
root, artichokes * (Jerusalem). 

* For convenience we have classed the Jerusalem ax-tichokes 
as roots ; they are really tubers. 



66 DIET AND OOOEERY 

Fruit vegetables : Cucumber, marrow, tomato. 

In a group not classifiable under any of the 
above headings may be put : — Seakale, asparagus, 
the green artichoke ; and by itself must stand the 
onion. 

The salad group : Celery, endive, lettuce, sorrel, 
mustard-and-cress, watercress, radishes. 

In many cases this group may with advantage 
be cooked like other vegetables. 

Edible fungi : Morelles, truffles, mushrooms. 

The Fruit Class. — We may arrange the members 
of this class into the following groups, which are 
more or less natural : — 

Apple, pear, quince, medlar. 

Orange, lemon, Ume, shaddock. 

Plum, peach, nectarine, apricot — cherry. 

The fig (green). 

Strawberry, raspberry, blackberry, dewberry, 
mulberry. 

Grapes, currants, gooseberries. 

Cranberry, barberry, whortleberry. 

The melon. 

The pine-appla 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 67 

Plantains and bananas are fruits, and of high 
nutritive value, but on account of the starch they 
contain they have been already spoken of in con- 
nection with the sweet potato, yam and bread-fruit. 

Of dried fruits, we have in common use — 

The fig, date, prune, raisin. 

It is hardly necessary to mention the prickly 
pear and pomegranate, since these fruits are so 
little used in this country. The olive scarcely 
reckons dietetically as a fruit. 

Nuts. — These form a class or sub-class which it 
is necessary to separate from fruits in general. The 
members are nutritious, but indigestible ; they are 
rich in nitrogenised principles, and also in oily 
compounds. The more important are : the almond, 
cocoanut, hazel-nut, Brazil-nut, and walnut. The 
chestnut we have placed in the starch-containing 
group. 

The soja, soya, or soy bean is of the pulse tribe 
but on account of the small amount of starch which 
it contains may conveniently be placed here ; it is 
highly nutritious. 

We have seen that both the nutritive principles, 



68 DIET AND COOKERY 

starch and sugar, are separable, as such, from 
articles of diet, and themselves are used undiluted 
as foods : thus arrowroot and the several varieties 
of sugar are eaten. In like manner fatty com- 
pounds — e.g. oils — are separable in the pure state, 
and are taken as such. From the vegetable king- 
dom we thus obtain olive-oil. This sub-group is 
better represented by a derivative from the animal 
kingdom : — 

THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. 

(1) Milk : its several varieties and modifications. 

(2) Milk derivatives : Butter, cream, cheese. 
Butter and cream are nearly pure fats ; there is 

a small proportion of nitrogenised matter. Cheese 
varies enormously in its composition, the richer 
kinds containing nearly as much of fatty as of 
nitrogenised compounds ; the poorer kinds — e.g. 
skim-milk cheese — containing much of the latter, 
but very little of fat. 

(3) Eggs. 

Although the eggs of several birds are eaten, 
we practically mean fowls' eggs Avhen we speak of 
the group. 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 69 

(4) Fish. 

(a) White fish: Whiting, sole, haddock, 

flounder, plaice, brill, halibut, tur- 

bot, cod. 
The order here given is somewhat that of diges- 
tibility. Thus we have, as most digestible, whiting 
and sole; as firmer, and therefore less digestible, 
turbot ; as perhaps least digestible, cod. White 
fish contains little fat. The roach, perch, pike, 
jack, and carp also contain little fat. 

(h) Oily or fat-containing fish : Eel, conger- 
eel, sprat, herring, pilchard, lam- 
prey, mackerel, salmon, salmon- 
trout. 
The eel is out-and-out the most rich in fat : it 
contains some three to five times as much as the 
other members of its group — e.g. four times as 
much as the conger-eeL Salmon-trout is less rich 
and oily than salmon, therefore more digestible. 

(c) Shell-fish (crustacean) : Lobster, crab, 
crayfish, shrimp, and prawn. 
Shell-fish (molluscan) : Oyster, cockle, 
scallop, mussel, periwinkle, limpet. 



70 DIET AND GOOKEBY 

Of crustacean shell-fish, the claw of the lobster 
reckons to be digestible: the claw of the crab is 
much more digestible than the soft part, or " pud- 
ding " ; but the whole sub-group is tasty, and tasty 
food in general is difficult of digestion. Among 
molluscan shell-fish, oysters are counted easy of 
digestion, but their reputation is perhaps not 
earned (Paris) ; they contain but little fat. Oysters 
become indigestible by cooking. 

In respect of the group "shell-fish" idiosyncrasy 
is not infrequently manifested ; and the instances 
of alimentary upset, at times amounting to symp- 
toms of poisoning, are not few. The diet is risky, 
with perhaps the one exception of oysters when in 
season. We must not omit to add that oysters, 
mussels, cockles, contain much amyloid — i.e. starchy 
or sugar-yielding material, and that the soft part 
(pudding) of crabs and lobsters is rich in the same. 
This fact, on grounds other than those of mere di- 
gestibility, will disqualify the shell-fish group in 
certain states of body. Salted, smoked, or other- 
wise preserved fish, or parts of fish — e.g. the roe 
— give us much-rehshed dishes, but they are for 
the healthy. 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 71 

Birds. — White-fleshed poultry: Fowl, guinea- 
fowl, turkey. 

Pigeons may come in with these, though not 
reckoned as poultry. 

Darker-fleshed poultry : Ducks, geese. 

Game: Pheasant, partridge, grouse, woodcock, 
snipe, ptarmigan. 

Wildfowl : Wild ducks, teal, widgeon. 

Ducks and geese are unquestionably much 
more difficult of digestion than the white-fleshed 
poultry, the fibre of the meat being harder 
and much richer.* In like manner, wild- 
fowl are more difficult to digest than game. 
It is less easy to assign the relative positions 
of the white-fleshed poultry and game ; for 
whilst the latter are more tasty and stimulant, 
they appear in many cases to be more easily 
dealt with by the system. As a general ruk^ 
we begin with fowl and advance to game ; but we 
should bear in mind that, simply dressed, these two 
classes come very near together, and that the more 

* The liver of the goose, in a state artificially brought about, 
is known as " foie gras." It contains a large percentage of fat, 
and is correspondingly rict. 



72 DIET AND COOKERY 



flavoursome may, for that very reason, prove more 
digestible. 



Meats. — Mutton and beef, and the correspond- 
ing lamb and veal. 

Pork and its derivatives, bacon and ham. 

Special parts : Liver, kidneys, heart, tripe, sweet- 
bread, brains, calf s-head, calf s-feet, tongue (fresh 
and cured). 

Venison. 

Hare. 

Rabbit. 

Salted meats. Cured meats. 

Of this class of food, mutton is the most 
digestible, and it constitutes an excellent staple 
article of diet for the invalid and the weak 
of digestion. Lamb is more tender, but on 
the whole less digestible ; the less sapid char- 
acter of the lamb will, however, commend it to 
some stomachs in certain states. Beef is deci- 
dedly less digestible than mutton, the fibre 
being harder ; it is fuller-flavoured. Veal stands 
to beef as lamb to mutton in point of digestibility ; 
its tissue is more gelatinous, less sapid. The usual 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS, 73 

accessories to veal are quite unsuitable to weak 
stomachs. 

Pork is well known as an indigestible food ; this 
is due to its richness and to the hardness of the 
fibre of the meat. 

Of Special Parts. 

The Liver is characterised by the presence of a 
considerable quantity of sugar, and it also contains 
a substance closely allied to, and readily converted 
into, sugar. The quantity of fat which it contains 
is very variable. Liver is usually fried, and pre- 
pared thus, constitutes a rich dish. 

Kidneys. — The closeness of texture is the 
characteristic here, and is a bar to easy digestion. 
As a dish, kidneys rank as indigestible, partly 
because they are generally cooked as a savoury ; 
in this form they should not be brought within 
measurable distance of the dyspeptic. In them- 
selves they are not rich, and their digestibility 
varies within very wide limits, according to the 
cooking. 

Heart. — To closeness of texture we must add 



74 DrET AND COOKERY 

hardness of fibre as distinctive : on both accounts 
this dish should be avoided. 

Tripe, when plainly cooked and freed from its 
fat, is easy of digestion. 

Sweetbread (both kinds, from the stomach and 
throat) is a suitable food when simply dressed. 

Brains (calf's or sheep's) are both eaten and 
enjoyed ; but this dish is rather rich in fat, inde- 
pendently of any mode of cooking. 

Calfs-head, calfs-feet, are both characterised 
by the gelatinous nature of the tissues : this may 
attract because of the slight mastication required ; 
but the food- value of gelatine is not great, and both 
dishes possess negative rather than positive values 
— viz. that they do not require mastication and 
that they are insipid. 

Tongue in the fresh state is tender when pro- 
perly cooked, but there is much fat present in the 
interstices of the fibres. 

Venison and hare are dark meats somewhat 
full-flavoured ; they correspond with game among 
birds. They are digestible in themselves, but their 
savouriness disqualifies them for weak stomachs. 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 75 

The rabbit approaches in character to the white- 
fleshed poultry, but it comes after them in digesti- 
bility. 

Cured meats and salted meats are, as a class, 
less digestible than meats in the fresh state ; 
this is partly caused by the hardening of the fibre 
which results. It would also appear that in the 
process of salting meat loses some of its nutritive 
value, which the brine extracts. Bacon forms 
an exception to the above rule, for in general it 
agrees welL 



OBESITY. 



This condition occupies a position midway be- 
tween health and disease, and it is not possible 
to draw the limiting line between these two : we 
may therefore, with advantage, take obesity first. 
The fact that upon the same diet one organ- 
ism grows fat whilst another keeps spare belongs 
to an obscure region of physiology. We do not 
know why this is. We are familiar with another 
fact of the same order — viz. that lean people are 
often large eaters, whilst fat people are frequently 
moderate, even small, eaters, and we are equally at 
a loss for an interpretation. Further, it is not un- 
common to find stout people active, quick both in 
mind and body. From a consideration of these 
points we are necessarily led to the conclusion 
that the accumulation of fat in the tissues is 
an inherent tendency of some organisms, and is 
an expression of its health. This we must 
always have in mind ; and both before and 



DIET AND COOKERY. 77 

during any treatment for obesity which we may 
undertake, we should carefully observe the signs of 
vigour, evidenced by mental and bodily activity, by 
cheerfulness, enterprise, etc. Should these improve, 
well and good : we are justified in proceeding ; but 
should they slacken at all, we must reconsider 
the question of treatment, and ask ourselves 
w^hether, after all, the encumbrance of fat is 
not the least of the evils before us. In such 
cases, alone, in which the loss of flesh proves an 
advantage to the economy is it permissible to treat 
obesity as such. 

Again, before we accuse the diet as the cause of 
obesity, we should make sure that other influences 
are not at work — i.e. over-indulgence in sleep, in- 
sufficient exercise. Having eliminated these, we 
may, with the above qualifications, proceed to re- 
vise the diet scale upon the following lines : — 

(1) We shall greatly restrict the use of the 
bread, rice, and potato class ; we shall withdraw the 
dried pulses and the use of the sugar group. The 
forbidding of sweet wines, sweet ales, stout, and 
porter will belong to the sugar restrictions, and the 
same will hold for sweet fruits, fresh or dried, and 



78 DIET AND COOKERY 

sweet vegetables. Starch-containing fruits — e.g. 
bananas — will not be advisable. 

(2) We may limit the consumption of fat: 
butter, cream, the fat of meat, and fat-containing 
flesh generally, whether of beast, bird, or fish. 

(3) We shall limit the amount of liquid taken. 
The question of restriction, or rather the extent 

to which this must be practised, mil vary with 
each case ; experience only can determine this. 
Strictness as to No. 1 is of the most importance ; 
some, indeed, relax or dispense with No. 2, and 
some relax as to No. 3. One authority admits of 
free potation, but is strict as to Nos. 1 and 2; 
and another well-kno^vn plan of treatment, which 
does not commend itself as appetising, recognises 
abundant drinking of hot water, with limitation of 
the food to rump steak and cod-fish."'^ The severer 
restrictions — which, by-the-bye, should not be prac- 
tised except under advice — may often be inter- 
mitted for long periods. It is well, according to 
some authorities, not to be too abrupt in the transi- 
tion from the accustomed to the modified diet, and 

* A tumblerful of hot water towards the eud of each meal 
sometimes aids effectually a revised diet. 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 79 

this will be wise if we are acting on our own 
responsibility. 

We have spoken of restriction, not abstention ; 
tor we do not advocate, even a^ to No. 1, that the 
bread-rice-potato group should be wholly eschewed. 
Thin dry toast in small quantity, rusk, some Hght 
and plain biscuit, also in small quantity, may re- 
present this group. Any of the so-called diabetic 
bread preparations {see " Diabetes," page 106 et seq.) 
are of course allowable. Sugar and sweet foods of 
all kinds we shall certainly avoid i"^ these are 
luxuries, not necessaries. Saccharine may do duty 
for sugar, also glycerine. Milk and butter may be 
used in moderation : to take cream would be mali- 
cious. In spite of these qualifications there will yet 
remain a fairly ample dietary, which we may illus- 
trate by the following examples : — 

* This is a counsel of perfection which the more human of us 
may construe into the admission of a little fresh fruit ; whilst the 
baked apple, without sugar, may he enjoyed with an easy con- 
science. 



80 DIET AND GOOKERT 

DIET TABLES FOR OBESITY. 



First Day, 

Breakfast. 
A large cup of Tea or Coffee, without Milk or Sugar. 

Tomato and Egg on dry Toast. 
Plain Biscuit, or Rusks, with a very little Butter. 

Luncheon or Supper. 
Cold Meat and Salad. Cheese and Rusks. 

Dinner. 

Filleted Sole, with Brown Piquante Sauce. 

A slice of Meat from a roast, or Fillet of Beef 3aut6. 

Cauliflower. Fried Celery, Baked Apple and Rusks. 



Second Day, 

Breakfast. 

A large cup of Tea or Coffee, without Milk or Sugar. 

Fillets of Haddock. Dry Toast with a little Butter. 

Luncheon or Supper. 

Oysters and Brown Bread, with a little Butter. 

Or Omelette Soufflde. 

Dinner. 

Clear Soup. 

A slice of Meat from a joint, or Fried Chicken with 

Chives. 

Rusk or Toast. Asparagus. 

Raspberry Jelly. 

Cheese. Celery or Lettuce, and Plain Biscuit. 



FOE OOMMON AILMENTS, 81 



EECIPES. 



First Day. 

Breakfast. 

Tea. — Tea is largely consumed in England, and it 
may seem unnecessary to give directions for making it ; 
yet it is so often badly made, and either rendered 
injurious or deprived of its virtues through being badly 
made, that it is advisable to describe the correct method 
of preparing it. 

It is impossible to make good tea of inferior material ; 
therefore, the first thing to be done is to choose good 
tea. This is difficult, because there are few articles 
of general consumption which vary so much in quality. 
It is not easy for any one but an expert to determine 
whether one tea is genuine or another is not. All that 
can be done is to make the purchase of a respectable 
dealer, to pay a fair price for it, and judge by the result. 
Cheap tea is nearly always inferior tea ; but genuine and 
good tea, if we can get it, is the cheapest in the end, 
because there is less waste belonging to it. 

In order to procure good tea, we should, after adopt- 
ing the methods already mentioned, note the appearance 
of the tea bought. It should be what is technically 
called " clean tea " — that is, it should be free from dust 
and stalks, and should consist of leaves about the same 
hize well twitited. Also it should not have a metallic 



Si DIET AND OOOKRRl 

look about it. One of the most conspicuous tests of tea, 
apart from its taste, is its fragrance. The smell of good 
tea would never be mistaken by anyone who had once 
recognised it. 

The mode of preparation has much to do with the 
excellence of tea. It should be made from water that 
was freshly drawn at the last moment before being put 
on the fire, and that is used the instant it has reached the 
boiling-point. Water that has boiled for awhile becomes 
flat, and therefore unfit for making tea. The kettle, 
too, that is used for boiling the water should be clean 
both inside and out. When water is at all hard (and 
much of the water used in towns is more or less hard), 
the kettle quickly becomes furred inside ; the outside 
also becomes covered with soot. The inside of a kettle 
should be washed out frequently with soda and hot 
water, and an oyster-shell which has been well scrubbed 
should be put into it. To this oyster-shell the fur will 
adhere, instead of clinging altogether to the bottom and 
sides of the kettle. The outside should be kept bright, 
because if soot is allowed to collect the kettle will be 
longer in boiling than it need be. Curiously enough, 
people who are most careful about the condition of 
the ordinary saucepans, will frequently leave the inside 
of the kettle untouched for months. 

There is a great difference of opinion among tea- 
makers as to what kind of teapot is to be preferred 
for brewing tea. Many successful tea-makers decidedly 
prefer earthenware teapots. Others declare that good 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 83 

tea best yields its fragrance in a polished silver or metal 
teapot. The reason why good tea is so often made in 
silver teapots, is that their owners can usually afford 
to put plenty of tea in the pot. The advantage attached 
to earthenware teapots is that they can readily be made 
clean, and can easily be kept clean. It is believed, how- 
ever, that if a metal teapot is in thoroughly good 
condition, better tea can be made therein than in an 
earthenware pot, because metal keeps hot longer than 
earthenware. 

Because the soluble properties of tea are best ex- 
tracted by soft water, and because in towns water is 
often somewhat hard, many make a practice of putting 
a pinch of bicarbonate of soda into the teapot with the 
tea-leaves. Only under very exceptional circumstances 
is this method to be recommended. Soda draws out the 
strength of tea, but it destroys its flavour, and it favours 
the extraction of the harmful principle in tea. 

The length of time which tea should be allowed 
to draw varies with the quality of the tea ; therefore no 
rule for universal application can be laid down. Coarse 
tea yields its fragrance and strength more quickly than 
fine tea ; and young leaves need to draw longer than old 
ones. Tea is never good, however, when it is allowed to 
draw longer than is necessary. Tea that is very strong 
and slightly bitter with long standing is most injurious. 

The following is the method recommended for making 
tea. Half fill the teapot with hot water, let it stand a 
minute or two until hot, then empty it. Put into 



84 DIET AND COOKERY 

it tlie requisite quantity of good tea (the old rule of 
a level teaspoonful for each person and one for the pot is 
an excellent one), and pour on gently enough freshly 
boiling water to half fill the teapot. Let it stand two 
or three minutes with the tea cosy over it ; then fill the 
teapot and pour out the tea. When sugar and milk arc 
used, they should be put into the tea-cup before the 
tea. Some people like lemon-juice in tea instead of 
milk. Lemon-juice should be put into the cup after 
the tea. 

A tea cosy is valuable because it prevents the escape 
of heat from the teapot, and tea yields its goodness best 
when hot. If, however, a cosy is employed to keep the 
teapot hot for a long time, so that the tea is allowed to 
become black and bitter, its use is to be deprecated. 
Yet to dispense with a cosy is to dispense with one 
ol' the products of civilisation. When it is necessary 
to make fresh tea, fresh leaves should on no account be 
added to those already in the teapot. The vessel should 
be emptied entirely and be rinsed with boiling water ; 
then the tea should be altogether re-made. 

As in Diabetes, so also in Obesity, saccharine may be 
used to sweeten tea or coffee. 

Tomato and Egg on Dry Toast. — Wipe two ripe toma- 
toes, and cut them into small pieces. Mince very finely a 
thin slice of onion about the size of a thumb-nail, also two 
ounces of lean ham. Melt a piece of butter, the size of 
a marble, in a small stewpan, and add two tablespoonf uls 
of broth ; pat in the minced mixture, and cook gently 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 85 

for about ten minutes. Lift the pan from the fire and 
add two well-beaten eggs. Stir quickly until the pre- 
paration begins to thicken ; then take the pan off the 
fire again and stir until the eggs look lumpy and set 
without being at all hard. Pour the egg upon dry toast, 
cut into neat squares, and serve hot. It is necessary to 
remember that in cases of obesity the use of butter and 
fat must be limited. 

2^oast. — Bread used for toasting should be not less 
and not more than two days old, and it should be about 
the third of an inch thick, so that it can be made crisp 
throughout. When it is so thick that there is a raw 
bread interval between the toasted sides, the raw piece 
is less digestible than the bread from which it was made. 

In obesity, however, it is specially necessary that 
toast should be thin. 

To make toast put the bread on the fork and hold it 
at a little distance in front of a clear, bright fire. When 
it is hot and dry on the surface, without having taken 
any colour, turn it, and slowly bring the other side 
to the same condition. Now turn it again, and let it 
slowly become richly brown on both sides all over with- 
out being in the least black. Serve it at once. The art 
of making toast well consists in drying it slowly, browning 
it equally without burning it, and serving it as soon 
as done. 

If toast is to be buttered, the butter should be spread 
lightly with the edge of the knife. To press butter into 
toast makes it heavy and spoils it. 
D 



86 DIET AND COOKERY 

Any form of gluten bread (see page 106) is suitable 
also for obesity. 

Luncheon or Supper. 

Salad. — The secret of making a salad successfully 
from the various vegetables available for the purpose is 
to have the raw vegetable freshly gathered, in full season, 
and to make it thoroughly dry, and not to mix until 
a few minutes before it is served. A mixed salad that 
is allowed to stand loses its crispness, and the leaves 
become sodden. The easiest way of making a salad dry 
is to wash the vegetable quickly, drain it between 
the fingers, then lay it in the middle of a dry napkin, 
and toss it about lightly for a few minutes. Lettuce 
leaves for salad should be broken with the fingers ; a 
knife should not be allowed to touch them. For the 
present purpose only salt and vinegar should be used as 
a dressing. In ordinary cases salt, good olive-oil, and 
vinegar should be used, and many authorities are of 
opinion that whatever is added to these ingredients is 
injurious. The proportions then employed should be 
three tablespoonfuls of oil to one of vinegar. 

Dinner* 

Filleted Sole vnth Piquante Sauce. — Wash and dry a 
aole, skin it, and cut off the head, tail, and fins. Cut the 
fish down the centre and slip the knife underneath the flesh 
close to the bones, raise the flesh, and gradually draw it 
away from the bone. By this means four strips or fillets 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 87 

will be obtained from one sole. Smooth the fillets with 
a knife. Double them in two, with the shiny surface 
inside, salt them, and let them lie for an hour covered 
with vinegar. Lay them in a stewpan, and sprinkle 
salt and pepper over them, add a few drops of lemon- 
juice, and cover them mth hot stock, or water if stock is 
not available ; but in this case a few peppercorns should be 
added. Bring the stock to the boil, draw the pan back, 
and simmer gently for six or seven minutes — a minute 
or two more or less, according to the thickness of the 
fillets. Drain the fillets, arrange them prettily on a hot 
dish, have ready some brown Piquante sauce, and serve. 

Brown Piquante Sauce. — Melt a tiny piece of butter 
in a small stewpan, and allow it to become brown without 
being at all burnt. Put with it half a gill of vinegar 
which has been boiled quickly to reduce it. Mix well, 
add pepper and salt, and pour over the fish through a 
strainer. 

Fillet of Beef Saute. — Take slices from the under- 
cut of the sirloin of beef, a third of an inch thick. 
Trim away the skin and unsightly edges, and make the 
cutlets look very neat ; flatten with a wet knife, sprinkle 
pepper and salt over them, and let them lie for an 
hour. Melt a small piece of butter in an omelet-pan 
over a gentle fire, put in the fillets, and let them cook 
for thirty or forty seconds, turn and cook the other side, 
and repeat until done. Dish in a circle. To make 
the dish look inviting, a slice of tomato the size of 
a shilling can be laid on each fillet, and chopped parsley 



88 DIET AND COOKERY 

sprinkled on the top. Or a few olives may be stoned, 
stewed in stock for about twenty minutes, and piled in 
the centre of the fillets. 

The fillet of beef may be obtained from the undercut 
of the sirloin or the undercut of the rump. The under- 
cut of the sirloin is rarely sold apart from the sirloin, 
and few housewives care to cut it from the joint. The 
undercut of the rump, however, can generally be pro- 
cured ; but where it is not available, a slice of rump- 
steak may be used instead. It will not be as tender as 
the fillet, but it will be more tasty. The gravy which 
fiows from the fillets will be the most suitable ac- 
companiment for this dish. 

Cauliflower in Sprigs. — Trim a cauliflower; let it 
lie in salted water for an hour ; look it over carefully ; 
then put it into cold salted water and bring the water to 
the boil. At once throw the water away and plunge 
the cauliflower into plenty of fast boiling salted water. 
Boil gently till tender, but not soft. Break the cauli- 
flower into branches, and serve. 

Fried Celery. — Cut some celery into pieces of a 
uniform size, throw them into boiling water to which 
half a cupful of vinegar and a little salt have been 
added, and let them boil gently for ten minutes. Take 
them up, drain them, lay them in cold water, and 
dry. Mix a teacupful of fine, dry bread-crumbs with a 
tablespoonful of grated Parmesan, and a little pepper 
and salt. Roll the celery in flour, brush it all over 
with beaten egg, and toss it in the bread-crumbs. Place 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 89 

a few sticks at a time in a frying basket, plunge into 
boiling fat, and when crisp drain on kitchen paper, and 
pile crosswise on a dish. Serve hot. 

Baked Apple and Rusks. — Choose apples in perfect 
condition ; wash well and prick the skin with a darning 
needle. Then put them into a deep dish, add a few 
spoonfuls of water, and bake very gently indeed. Serve 
with dry rusks. The apple may be eaten hot or cold. 



Second Day. 



Breakfast, 

ijqffee. — With good material and proper appliances 
it is exceedingly easy to make good coffee ; therefore we 
can only wonder that it is the rarity that it is in 
English homes. The materials required are a sufficient 
quantity of freshly roasted and freshly ground coffee- 
berries and fast boiling water, and a cafetiere such as 
is sold by every ironmonger. No chicory is needed ; 
indeed, if pure coffee is desired, the employment of 
chicory must be forbidden. Chicory gives colour and 
brilliancy to the beverage into which it is introduced, 
and some persons think it produces a palatable drink. 
But the drink produced is not coffee. 

The fragrance of coffee escapes from the berry very 
quickly, and it is necessary, therefore, that the coffee 
should be freshly roasted. The most effectual way of 



90 DIET AND COOKERY 

securing this condition is, of course, to have it roastert 
at home, and small coffee roasters are to be bought for a 
moderate sum. Not many housekeepers, however, care 
to undertake this business ; and where large shops are 
within reach, it is not imperative that they should do so. 
At large establishments coffee is always roasted fre- 
quently, and if a small quantity is bought at one time, if 
the coffee is stored in a canister with a tightly fitting lid, 
and if the berries are gently heated in the oven before 
being gi'ound, to revive the flavour, the coffee will be 
everything that could be wished. It is indispensable, 
however, that the berries should not be ground until 
they are wanted. Coffee made from powder that has 
been ground even for a few hours is sure to be more 
or less stale and unprofitable. To use the cafetiere, first 
fill it with boiling water, let it stand a minute, then 
pour the liquid away. Place the requisite amount of 
coffee upon the perforated bottom of the upper compart- 
ment, put the strainer in its place, and pour in gently 
and gradually as much boiling water as is needed. Cover 
the cafetiere, and leave it in a hot place until the 
water has filtered from the upper compartment into 
the lower one. If it is to be served in another pot, the 
vessel which is to receive it must be made hot with 
Ijoiling water before the coffee is poured in it. 

The quality of coffee depends very much upon the 
quantity of material used. It is obvious that though 
coffee may be well made, it cannot be strong unless 
we use plenty of coffee. Ideas differ very much, 



FOE COMMON AILMENTS. 91 

however, as to the degree of strength which is desirable. 
Thrifty housewives who consider coffee injurious declare 
that a teaspoonful of ground coffee is sufficient for 
half a pint of water. The usual allowance, however, 
is a heaped t^ablespoonful of coffee to half a pint of 
water. Very black coffee is sometimes made with a heaped 
tablespoonf ul of coffee to a quarter of a pint of water ; 
and the Turks, we are told, use three tablespoonfuls 
of coffee to each small cup. When, however, it is 
wished that the coffee should be very strong, it is better 
to decrease the measure of water rather than to largely 
increase the quantity of coffee used. If too much coffee 
is placed in a cafetiere the water does not filter through 
thoroughly. Moreover, no one can drink a large 
quantity of very strong coffee. One way of securing 
a supply of strong coffee is to preserve a small quantity 
of the beverage, should any be left, from one day to 
another, and make coffee for the second day from a weak 
solution of coffee and water, instead of plain water. 
We learn that the gar9ons in the French cafds always 
do this when they can. The cold coffee should not, 
however, be left standing in the cajetiere ; it should be 
drained off and kept in a glass bottle closely stoppered. 

When milk is used wilh coffee, it should be scalded, 
not boiled ; and many think it an improvement to 
put the milk in the cup before the coffee. When coffee 
is very strong the proportions used are one-half coffee 
and half milk. 

When coffee is not good the reason usually is either 



92 DIET AND COOKERY 

that it has not been made in a proper coffee-pot, or that 
a sufficient quantity of coffee has not been allowed, 
or that the coffee-pot was not clean. A vessel of 
this description requires most careful attention, and 
it very soon gets out of order if it is neglected. It 
is not enough to rinse the cafetiere out every day 
after use. There is an oily property about coffee which 
adheres in spite of rinsing out, and which clogs the holes 
of the filter, and not only keeps the coffee from running 
through, but also injures its flavour. A coffee-pot 
should be daily washed, not rinsed, with boiling water, 
and the pieces should be taken apart and dried 
separately. If packed away wet, and left to dry by 
themselves, they will in time impart a metallic taste 
to the liquid. Cold water is worse than useless for 
washing a coffee-pot, because it sets the oil. 

When a cafetiere is not available, respectable, though 
decidedly inferior, coffee can be made in an ordinary 
coffee-kettle, in the pot in which it is to be sent to table, 
or even in a jug. The following methods are, in these 
cases, recommended : — 

To make Coffee in an ordinary Coffee-kettle. — IMea- 
siire the quantity of coffee to be used. Make it hot 
in the oven to revive the flavour ; then put it into 
the kettle, and pour the boiling water slowly over it. 
Let it stand a minute or two ; put it on the fire, 
and bring it gently to the point of boiling. Take it 
off the fire, pour out a cupful of the infusion, and return 
it to the pot from a good height. Repeat this operation 



FOR COMMON AILMEl^TS. 93 

twice. Throw a tablespoonful of cold water into the 
coffee, let the pot stand by the fireside for three or 
four minutes, strain the liquid through muslin into 
the heated vessel from which it is to be served, and send 
it at once to table. 

To make Coffee in the Pot in which it is to be sent to 
table. — Make a small bag of unbleached calico to be used 
as a strainer, and fix it so that it shall be suspended 
in the middle of the cofiee-pot. Allow an ounce of coffee 
for each quart of the beverage. Heat the ground coffee, 
put it into the bag, and pour over freshly boiling water 
to cover the bag entirely. Let the pot stand in a warm 
place for ten minutes, and serve. 

To make Coffee in a Jug. — Fill the jug with boiling 
water, let it stand a minute or two, then empty it. For 
a pint of coffee put two tablespoonfuls of ground coffee 
into the jug, pour the water, which should be freshly 
boiled and actually boiling, over it, and stir with a 
spoon. Cover with a cloth pressed into the top, and set 
the jug on the hot plate for five minutes. Have the 
vessel in which the coffee is to be served made hot, 
lay a piece of muslin over it, and pour the coffee gently 
through the muslin. 

When coffee is made with any other vessel than 
a cafetiere, the employment of chicory may be prefeiTed. 
The proportions usually taken are from three to four 
ounces of chicory to one pound of coffee. An overdose 
of chicory will make coffee undrinkable. 

Fillets of Haddock. — When the haddock comes into 



94 DIET AND COOKERY 

the house the day before it is to be used, clean it, cut 
off the head, remove the skin, rub it over with salt, 
and hang it in a cool place. When it is to be cooked, 
divide the flesh into fillets about an inch and a half 
square ; put them in a stewpan containing as much 
boiling salted water as will cover them, and let them 
simmer three or four minutes till done. Drain the 
fish, arrange it neatly on a hot dish, squeeze the juice of 
a lemon on it, and sprinkle chopped parsley over it. Set 
in the oven for a minute or two till quite hot, and serve. 

Dried haddock is very tasty cooked in the same way. 
It would need, however, to be placed in cold, not boiling, 
water, and would be done when brought to the point of 
boiling. It would not require any salt. 

Dry Toast. — See above. 

Luncheon. 

Oysters. — To be enjoyed in perfection, oysters must 
be alive when opened ; also they must be freshly opened, 
for they deteriorate in flavour and excellence every 
minute that they remain on the shell. Many varieties 
of oysters are now sold, and their price varies very 
much. Natives are, of course, the best, and next in 
value come the oysters known technically as " seconds," 
and which are almost equal to natives. Anglo-Dutch 
oysters are also excellent for eating ; the large, white, fat 
English oysters are most suitable for sauce. American 
oysters are much liked by some, and it is claimed for 
them that they are more wholesome than other sorts. 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 95 

Oysters are usually eaten with pepper and vinegar, 
with a slice of thin brown bread and butter. Epicures 
in oysters, however, frequently prefer them without 
anything. They can also be bearded or not, according 
to taste. They are generally considered more dainty 
when neatly bearded. 

Omelette Souffle. — This dish can be made with the 
greatest ease when a hot oven is available. The only 
point requiring attention is that the eggs should be 
beaten properly. The yolks and whites should be 
beaten separately. The yolks should be beaten with 
the requisite amount of sugar and a little flavouring 
until they become very thick and cease to froth. In 
cases of obesity the less sugar used the better. The 
whites should be whisked until they are quite firm 
and solid, and can be cut clean through with a knife; 
they may then be mixed lightly with the yolks. The 
preparation can then be put in a warmed and buttered 
earthenware or china dish, or into a small enamelled 
omelette pan, and set in a quick oven. In from five 
to ten minutes (according to the number of eggs used) 
it will be fit for serving. It should have risen well 
and be set. It should be served without a moment's 
delay, as it will fall very quickly when it is once 
removed from the oven. It will be all the better if 
it can be served on the dish on which it was cooked. 
The dish will need to be greased sufficiently to keep the 
preparation from sticking to it, no more. Butter is not 
an essential ingredient of an omelette cooked thus. 



96 DIET AISID COOKERY 



Dinner. 

Clear Soup. — (See page 150.) 

Fried Chicken with Chives. — A young fowl only is 
suitable for this dish. It should be divided into four or 
six parts, or the legs only can be cooked thus, smO 
the remainder of the bird prepared in some other way. 
Chives are less used in cookery than they deserve to 
be, because they have the good qualities of the onion in 
abundance, and its bad qualities, the unpleasant odour 
and strong taste, in a mild form. They are very hardy, 
and easily grown where there is a garden. The bulbs 
are slender, and not worth using ; the leaves and young- 
tops of the plants are, however, very delicate, and 
impart a piquant flavour to the dish with which they 
are served. To prepare them, wash them, then cut 
them into thin rings, throw them into a basin containing 
boiling water, and let them soak for three or four 
minutes. Take them up, dry them perfectly by spreading 
them between the folds of a napkin. If chives are not 
available, a thin slice of shalot chopped till as fine aF 
sawdust may be used instead. 

To prepare the chicken, truss it, or cut it into joints, 
and make it quite dry. Put in a shallow stewpan or frying- 
pan about three ounces of butter, or half butter and half 
oil may be used. When it fizzes put in first the legs of 
the fowl facing each other, the wings on each side, and 
the rest of the bird in the middle. Add salt and pepper, 
and fry over a good but not fierce fire. If the fowl 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 97 

cooks softly it will be sodden; if it is fried too 
quickly it will be burnt outside without being cooked 
inside. It must be kept at a moderate heat and turned 
frequently, and the pan should be shaken to keep the 
butter from burning. The legs of the fowl should be 
taken out last. The fowl should be done in from fifteen 
to twenty minutes. If the fat were boiling when the 
joints were put into it, the dish would not be greasy 
at all ; it would simply be browned quickly on the 
outside, and the gravy would be kept inside. 

When the fowl is sufficiently cooked, take it up, put 
the joints between two plates in the oven, throw the 
chives or the minced shallot into the frying-pan, and 
let them cook in the hot fat until yellow, not brown. 
Drain, scatter over the fowl, and serve. 

If sauce is desired for this dish (although it will 
be very good without), it may be prepared as follows : — 
Drain the fat from the frying-pan, and pour into it 
a cupful of stock (or a glass of white wine if approved). 
Put with it half a teaspoonful of Liebig and a few drops 
of lemon-juice; pepper and salt. Arrange the pieces 
of chicken in a pyramid form — the inferior portions 
at the base, the delicate parts on the top. 

When cooking a fowl thus, it is most necessary to 
keep turning the joints to avoid burning. If, however, 
the fork is stuck into the flesh, the gravy will escape. 

Asparagus. — Asparagus is always enjoyed as a 
separate course. Scrape the stems slightly, and throw 
them into cold water as they are done. Cut the white 



98 DIET AND COOKERY. 

ends evenly to make the stalks the same length, and tie 
them with twine in bundles of an equal size. Use a 
stewpan large enough to hold the asparagus without 
bending the stalks. Half fill it with water, salt it; 
when it boils skim it, and put in the asparagus. Leave 
the lid off the pan, and boil gently till tender. It will 
need to boil from twenty to thirty minutes, according to 
thickness, but should be taken up as soon as done, or it 
will lose colour and flavour. Drain well, and serve 
on toast. 

Raspberry Jelly. — Simmer about a breakfast cupful 
of ripe raspberries, mixed with a few picked red currants, 
with half a cupful of water until the juice flows freely. 
Turn the fruit upon a sieve, and let the juice drip from it 
without pressure. Soak a tablespoonful of gelatine in 
water to cover it. When the water is absorbed, dissolve 
the gelatine in the fruit juice. When the jelly begins to 
thicken, put it into small moulds or glasses. If sweetness 
is required, use saccharine instead of sugar. The employ- 
ment of sugar is to be avoided in cases of obesity. 



DIABETES; OE THE SUG^AE 
DIATHESIS. 



This disease presents no real affinities to the con- 
dition just discussed — viz. obesity; indeed, in a 
sense, tlie two states are diametrically opposed ; for 
whereas in diabetes sugar and substances chemically 
alKed to sugar are not utilised by the system, but 
escape to its loss, in obesity these same substances 
are too well utilised, and are stored up to its en- 
cumbrance. Diabetes cannot, however, be regarded 
as a mere negative disease — an inability to assimi- 
late certain principles — for, unquestionably, in the 
majority of cases the sugar-yielding group acts as a 
positive poison to the system, and promotes the 
disorder. The vice may in certain cases attain to 
such a degree, that by an intricate chemistry sugar 
may be formed even from the nitrogenous or albu- 
minous group. It need hardly be said, that where 
this obtains the case assumes a very threatening 
aspect. 



loo DIET AND COOKERY 

The dietefcic treatment of diabetes is of the first 
importance, and in many cases the disease can be 
held in check by this means alone ; but in no other 
disorder are the resources of the cook more severely 
taxed. The problem before him is to hide the 
absence of the starch granule, or, harder still, to 
reconcile the patient to its absence. Under the cir- 
cumstances, unless the patient's good-will and 
powers of self-restraint co-operate in carrying out 
the necessary observances, it will be useless to 
attempt the task. 

There are two classes of diabetics : in the one 
the subjects are younger, on an average, and the 
symptoms, including emaciation, are more pro- 
nounced ; in the other class, the patients are more 
advanced in years, and they are not infrequently 
inclined to corpulency, and, indeed, suffer but 
slightly from the disease. 

The regimen in the former of these two classes 
will need to be much more strict than in the latter, 
but even in the former, tentative procedures — dietetic 
experiments, in fact — will be necessary in each case ; 
for till we try, we cannot possibly know the degree 
of starch or sugar toleration of the individual. 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 101. 

These powers, it would seem, vary very greiatly. \% 
will be obvious, then, that a hard-and-fast routine 
treatment of all cases of diabetes will be very ill- 
advised. In the following we shall present the 
severer restrictions, since the milder will simply 
mean a more or less relaxing of these : for which, 
however, medical authority should at all times 
be responsible. 

For practical reasons, diabetes may conveniently 
be placed next to obesity, since the restrictions in 
each case concern chiefly one main group of ali- 
ments — viz. those containing starch and sugar. 

From the regimen of the diabetic we shall 
accordingly exclude : — 

(a) The entire bread, rice, and potato group. 

(6) Sugar, and sweet foods of all kinds. 

(c) The pea or pulse group, in the dried and 
even in the young state. 

(d) Root vegetables, the whole group. 

(e) The Spanish onion. 
(/) The tomato. (?) 

All sweet fruits will be excluded by (6). 
From the Kst of animal foods we must ex- 
clude : — 



102 iDTET AND COOKERY 

{g) The liver of animals, and, because of the 
magnitude of this organ in them, the shell-fish : 
oysters, cockles, mussels, etc. For the same reason 
one authority excludes the pudding of crabs and 
lobsters. 

(h) Milk may be allowed in limited quantity, 
but, as far as possible, it should be replaced by 
cream. 

From the list of drinks we shall exclude : — 

(i) Port and all sweet wines ; sweet ales and 
porter or stout ; rum and sweetened gin, or any 
form of sweetened spirit — e.g. liqueurs. 

As to what is permitted, we might say briefly 
that this includes all that which is not excluded, 
but we shall do well to specify a little more : — 

(1) The bread, rice, and potato group is replaced 
by various gluten preparations — viz. gluten bread, 
biscuits, cakes, puddings, and bran cakes ; almond 
rusks and cakes ; bread made from the Soy bean. 
Ordinary bread, cut into thin slices and thoroughly 
" torrefied " (charred), is sometimes permitted. 

(2) Sugar is, or may be, replaced by glycerine, 
or, better, by saccharine. 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 103 

(3) The vegetables permissible include tbe green 
vegetables, whole group ; the salad group, cooked 
or fresh. Further: cucumber, marrow, seakale, 
,asparagus.* Mushrooms are allowed. 

(4) Nuts, except chestnuts, are allowed. 

(5) Cheese and butter are permissible, but milk 
only sparingly ; fat and oil are beneficial. 

(6) Eggs. 

(7) Butcher's meat, poultry, game, fish, and 
broths or extracts from these, unthickened, are all 
permitted. 

(8) To drink we have : Tea, coffee, cocoa from 
the nibs, chocolate made with gluten meaL 

Soda-water and the table mineral waters. 

Dry sherry, claret, Burgundy, or dry Sauterne, 
hock 

Bitter ale. 

Brandy and whisky. 

Water acidulated with cream of tartar makes a 
pleasant thirst- quenching drink. 

* According to one authority, such vegetables as Brussels 
sprouts, cauliflower, broccoli, French beans, marrow, seakale, 
asparagus should be boiled in much water before eating. 



104 DIET AND COOKERY 

DIET TABLES FOR DIABETES. 



First Day, 

Breakfast. 

Tea or Coffee, sweetened with Saccharine, and flavoured 

with a little Cream. 

Mutton Chop. Brar Bread, or Gluten Bread. 

Small Salad. 

Luncheon. 

Vegetable Marrow, with Savoury Mince. Bran Bread. 

Savoury or Almond Custard. 

Dinner. 

Clear Soup, with Poached Egg floating in it. 

Partridge, Braised, with Cabbage. Cheese. 

Bran or Gluten Bread. 



Second Day. 

Breakfast. 

Tea or Coffee, as above. Cafd Noir with or without 

Saccharine. Kidney and Mushrooms. Bran Bread. 

Almond Biscuits. 

Luncheon. 

Cold Beef and Cucumber. Gluten Bread. 

Almond Biscuits, with Butter and Salt. 

Dinner. 

Baked Plaice. Veal k la Talleyrand, or Hot Meat 

from a Joint. Seakale. Gluten or Bran Bread 

Calf's Foot Jelly in Glasses. 



Walnuts or Almonds. ' 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS, 105 



RECIPES. 



First Day. 



Breakfast. 

^ea. — (See page 81.) Saccharine, as a substitute for 
susar, to be taken with tea or coffee, can be obtained 
in the form of tabloids. For ordinary purposes it can 
be bought in the form of powder. 

Mutton Chop. — Take a chop from the middle of the 
loin of mutton, trim it neatly, and pepper and salt it. 
Use for cooking either a hanging gridiron or one that is 
intended for the top of the fire (the latter is to be 
preferred), and be sure that it is perfectly clean. Grease 
the bars, and make them hot ; put the chop in its place, 
and be sure not to stick a fork into the lean part when 
moving it. To do so would be to let the gravy escape ; 
the meat should be taken hold of either with a pair of 
steak tongs or with a spoon and fork. As soon as one 
side is brown, turn the chop, let the other side brown, 
turn again, and repeat until the chop has been turned 
six times. The length of time required will depend 
upon thickness. A loin chop three-quarters of an inch 
thick lightly done will take about ten minutes ; well done, 
about twelve minutes. It is done enough when it feels 
springy if pressed with a fork. Serve it on a hot dish, 
with pepper and salt, and a slice of butter laid on it 
if approved. 



106 DIET AND OOOKEEY 

A chop is at its best when broiled, but it is not 
always convenient or possible to have the hot, clear fire 
needed for broiling in the morning. Should necessity 
compel, therefore, the chop may have to be saute, or 
cooked in the frying-pan, instead of being broiled. In 
this case very little fat should be used_, enough only 
to keep the chop from burning, and it should be already 
melted before the meat is put in. At the end of 
five minutes the chop should be turned, and cooked 
till done. A chop cooked in the frying-pan is, how- 
ever, sure to be inferior to one that is broiled over 
the fire. 

Diabetic Bread. — One of the greatest privations 
which have to be endured by diabetic patients is en- 
countered in respect of bread ; and, therefore, many 
efforts have been made by scientific experts to supply an 
acceptable substitute for this food. Bread made from 
prepared gluten flour, bran flour, and powdered almonds, 
has been produced, and can be bought in the form of 
slices and rolls. Gluten biscuits, bran biscuits, and 
bran cakes, are also to be obtained, and they have been 
extensively used. 

In his work on "Food in Health and Disease," Dr. 
Burney Yeo gives the following information about bread 
for diabetic patients : — 

" Gluten bread is never entirely free from starch, 
and, unless it is prepared with great care and by known 
manufacturers, it may even contain a considerable quan- 
tity. It isi also by no means agreeable to the palate. 



FOE GOMMON AILMENTS. 107 

Yet, ■when well and carefully prepared, it undoubtedly 
supplies a need." 

Sir William Roberts speaks highly of a gluten bread 
made by Bonthron, 106, Regent Street, in the form 
of small palatable buns. They keep about a fortnight, 
and he found them nearly free from starch. 

Bran bread (introduced by Dr. Prout), made from 
bran washed as free from starch as possible, is also 
largely used for diabetics, but, unless very carefully 
prepared, it contains a considerable amount of starchy 
material, and also a large proportion of indigestible 
cellulose, which, with some persons, sets up a great deal 
of gastro-intestinal irritation. 

Dr. Camplin's formula for making bran bread is one 
of the best. Dr. Camplin, it may be explained, was for 
many years a diabetic, and he effectually succeeded in 
keeping his disease at bay. He spoke very strongly 
from personal experience in favour of bran food as a 
substitute for bread in diabetes. The following is his 
recipe : — 

"Take a sufficient quantity, say a quart, of wheat 
bran ; boil it in two successive waters for a quarter of 
an hour, each time straining it through a sieve ; then 
wash it well with cold water on the sieve until the 
water runs off perfectly clear ; squeeze the bran in a 
cloth as dry as you can ; then spread it thinly on a dish, 
and place it in a slow oven. If put in at night, let it 
remain in till morning, when, if perfectly dry and crisp, 
it will be fit for grinding. The bran thus prepared 



108 DIET AND GOOKEBY 

must be grouiul in a fine mill, and sifted through a wire 
sieve of such fineness as to require the use of a brush to 
pass it through ; that which remains in the sieve must 
be ground again until it becomes quite soft and fine. 

*' Take of this bran powder three ozs. (some patients 
use four ozs.), the other ingredients as follows : three 
new-laid eggs, one and a half oz. (or two ozs. if desired) 
of butter, and about half a pint of milk. Mix the eggs 
with a little of the milk, and warm the butter with the 
other portion ; then stir the whole well together, adding 
a little nutmeg and ginger, or any other agreeable spice. 
Bake in small tins (patty pans), which must be well 
buttered, in a rather quick oven for about half an hour. 
The cakes when baked should be a little thicker than a 
Captain's biscuit. They may be eaten with meat or 
cheese at breakfast, dinner, or supper; at tea they 
require a rather free allowance of butter, or they may be 
eaten with curd, or any of the soft cheeses." 

It is important that the above directions as to 
washing and drying the bran should be exactly followed, 
in order that the bran may be freed from starch and 
rendered more friable. Bran in its common state is 
soft, and not easily reducible to fine powder. In some 
seasons of the year, or if the cake has not been well 
prepared, it changes more rapidly than is convenient. 
This may be prevented by placing the cake before the 
fire for five or ten minutes every day. These cakes are 
made by Blatchley, 167, Oxford Street, London. Sir 
William Roberts suggests the use of seven eggs instead 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS, 109 

of three as an improvement, also the addition of a 
teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. 

Another authority, Dr. Pavy, advocated bread made 
from bran flour instead of ordinary bread for diabetics. 
He constantly recommended that it should be made 
at home, and at the same time handed the patient 
the following recipe, which had been given to him by a 
lady, the wife of a diabetic, who had contributed much 
to her husband's comfort by devising various palatable 
substances for his use. 

Recii^efor Bran Cakes. — Take four ozs. of prepared 
bran flour, two ozs. of butter, one drachm of bicarbonate 
of soda, five eggs, and about a quarter of a pint of warm 
milk. First mix the bicarbonate of soda ^vith the bran 
flour ; then beat up two ozs. of butter in a hot basin, 
and shake into it the mixture of bran flour and bicar- 
bonate of soda, beating with a spoon all the while. 
Next beat up the five eggs in a separate basin before 
the fire till milk-warm, and stir them gradually into the 
mixture of bran flour, soda and butter. Beat up all 
well together for at least ten minutes, adding gradually 
the warm milk. Place in well-buttered tins, or patty 
pans, and bake in a brisk oven for about ten minutes. 
The cakes are done when they will turn out of the 
tin quite easily. The above quantities will make about 
five cakes of the size of ordinary buns. The cakes, if 
desired, "may be cut into slices, toasted, and buttered." 

When the directions here given are properly carried 
out, a substitute for bread is yielded, which may, of 



110 DIET AND OOOKERY 

course, be supplied to the patient fresh every day, or as 
often as may be desired, and which is really not un- 
palatable. It ought to be light, soft, and moist, without 
giving an impression of feeling wet or cold in the mouth. 

Instead of all bran flour, equal parts or other pro- 
portions of bran and almond flour may be used. The 
cakes, in the opinion of many, are thus rendered more 
palatable. The almond flour seems to soften and neu- 
tralise the taste of the bran, whilst the bran reduces the 
richness of the almond flour. 

Dr. Pavy adds that after the process to which the 
bran is subjected in washing, it may be questioned if 
it possesses really any nutritive value; but as it is 
employed, it is combined with other materials, and 
plays the part of an unobjectionable agent which gives 
bulk to what is consumed, and, therefore, supplies some- 
thing for filling the stomach, and enabling the patient to 
feel that he has taken a full meal. 

Pavy also introduced almond cakes as a substitute 
for ordinary bread, and it is undoubtedly a valuable one. 
By washing the meal of sweet almonds with acidulated 
water the greater part of the sugar is removed, and the 
meal so treated may, by careful preparation, be made 
into a palatable cake or biscuit. Seegen also advocates 
the use of almond cakes, and gives the following recipe 
for making them : — 

Almond Cakes. — Take of blanched sweet almonds 
J lb. ; beat them as fine as possible in a stone mortar ; 
remove the sugar contained in this meal by putting it in 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. Ill 

a linen bag, and steeping it for a quarter of an hour 
in boiling water acidulated with vinegar ; mix this paste 
thoroughly with three ozs. of butter and two eggs. Next 
add the yolks of three eggs and a little salt, and stir well 
for some time. Whip up the whites of these eggs, and 
stir in. Put the dough thus obtained into greased 
moulds, and dry by a slow fire. 

Speaking of almond biscuits. Dr. Pavy says : ** By 
many diabetics almond biscuit can be taken, and it is 
considered a desirable addition to the other kinds of 
food allowed, but it must be admitted that by some it is 
found to be too rich for ordinary consumption with the 
meals. It goes very well, however, with a little sherry 
or any other kind of wine alone, and composed as it 
is entirely of almond flour and eggs, it forms a highly 
nutritive and serviceable food. It is eaten well by 
children." 

Luncheon. 

Vegetable Marrow with Savoury Mince. — Out a 
vegetable marrow into two lengthwise, and remove 
the seeds. Salt the pieces, and let the water drain 
from them. Have ready a stuffing made of equal parts 
of lean veal or beef and cooked bacon finely chopped, to 
which chopped parsley, pepper and salt may be added. 
(The possible saltness of the bacon must be remembered 
when the salt is put in.) Fill the two halves of the 
marrow with this, press them together, and bind them 
with tape. Lay the vegetable in a saucepan or deep 



112 DIET AND COOKERY 

dish, with a little butter, pepper and salt, a wineglassful 
of stock, and a few drops of lemon juice. Simmer 
gently or bake till the marrow is quite tender. It will 
probably need to be cooked for a couple of hours. If 
preferred, partially cooked sausage-meat made without 
breadcrumbs may be used instead of the bacon force-meat. 
A more speedy method of preparing this dish is to fry the 
marrow in the first instance, then fill it with force- 
meat, and set it in the oven till hot through and brown 
on the top. (For Bran Bread, see above.) 

Savoury Custard. — Whisk one whole egg and the 
white of an egg, and mix it either with a gill of stock or 
a gill of cream, whichever is preferred. Flavour with a 
pinch of salt and a little nutmeg ; or the custard may be 
sweetened with saccharine, and flavoured with a little 
almond. Pour it into a buttered gallipot, cover it with 
a buttered paper, and place it in a saucepan of boiling 
water, with water coming half-way up the jar. Let 
it steam very gently until firm in the centre. If more 
convenient, the custard may be poured into a small pie 
dish, put into a dripping tin containing boiling water, 
and cooked in the oven. 

Dinner. 

Clear Soup with Poached Egg floating in it. — Poach 
an egg carefully and lightly, then trim the edges 
neatly. Place it in a hot soup plate, and pour a 
breakfast cupful of clear soup gently over it. A 
little chopped parsley or chopped chervil may be 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS 113 

S])rinklecl in at the last moment. (For Clear Soup, see 
page 150.) 

Braised Partridge^ with Cabbage. — This is an essen- 
tially French dish, and very tasty. It is, however, not 
suitable for young partridges. When these can be 
obtained, there is no better way of dealing with them 
than to roast them. 

When the bird is to be braised, truss it as a fowl 
is trussed for boiling, with its legs tucked inside. Put 
it into a stewpan with a slice of fat bacon cut into dice, 
and an onion with a clove in it, and turn it about 
till it is lightly browned all over ; pour round it half 
a pint of strong, well-flavoured stock, and add any bacon 
bones or meat trimmings that may be available. Cover 
the pan closely, and simmer gently. 

Whilst the partridge is being cooked, the cabbage 
may be prepared. Procure a freshly-cut tender cabbage, 
or half a Savoy. Wash it well, drain it, cut out the 
stalk, and boil it with enough stock to cover it, and 
a slice of bacon or some bacon bones, pepper and 
salt. When quite tender, strain it, and cut it into 
slices. Take up the partridge, strain the gravy, and 
reduce it by boiling it quickly. Also free it from 
fat. Place the bacon bones, etc., in the bottom of the 
stewpan, put a layer of cabbage upon this, then the 
partridge, then the rest of the cabbage, moisten with 
the gravy ; cover closely, and stew gently for half an 
hour. The time needed for cooking this dish will 
depend on the age of the birds. If they are old, three 



114 DIET AND COOKERY 

hours will not be too long ; if they have recently attained 
their full growth, an hour and a half altogether will be 
long enough. 

To dish the partridges, make a basin very hot, put 
the cabbage into it, place the partridges on this, and 
cover with cabbage. Remove the bones, trimmings, 
onion, etc., make the gravy very hot, and garnish the 
mould with the bacon. Turn the contents of the 
basin upon a hot dish, and pour the gravy over all. 
Fried sausages are sometimes served with partridges 
thus dressed. 

Second Day* 



Breakfast. 
Kidneys and Mushrooms. — Skin and core two sheep's 
kidneys, and cut them into small, neat pieces. Melt an 
ounce of butter in a saucepan, and throw in about two 
dozen champignons, or, if they can be had, the same 
quantity of fresh button mushrooms may be used, and 
half a gill of stock. Simmer gently (on no account boil) 
for seven or eight minutes, and stir well. Throw in the 
prepared kidneys, and again simmer gently till the 
kidneys are cooked. At the last moment add pepper 
and salt, and half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley : 
also, if approved, half a gill of sherry. Serve hot. 

JD/NNER. 

Baked Plaice. — Procure a thick plaice, and lift the 
tillets from the bone ; wash and dry them, and put them 



FOE COMMON AILMENTS. 115 

in a single layer in a buttered baking tin ; salt and 
pepper them, and sprinkle the juice of a lemon over 
them, and pour a tablespoonful of stock round them. 
Cover them with buttered paper, and bake in a gentle 
oven for about ten minutes. Serve on a hot dish, with 
their own gravy, flavoured with essence of anchovy 
poured over them. 

Veal Cutlets d, la Talleyrand. — Take a slice of veal 
from the fillet, weighing about one pound, and an inch in 
thickness. Cut it into rounds half an inch thick and 
three inches across ; flatten them with the side of a 
broad-bladed knife dipped in cold water, and carefully 
remove all skin and sinew, which would cause them 
to shrink when cooking. Have ready a shallot finely 
minced, four mushrooms chopped small, a tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley, a little lemon juice j the yolks of 
two eggs, a quarter of a pint of stock ; a gill of cream, a 
little butter, pepper and salt. Melt two ounces of 
butter in a scrupulously clean saute pan, and cook the 
cutlets very gently without letting them brown. Season 
them with pepper and salt, sprinkle over them the 
chopped shallot, mushrooms, and parsley, pour the stock 
over, and simmer for twenty minutes. Strain off the 
gravy, and free it from fat. Dish the cutlets in a circle, 
and keep them hot a minute. Put with the gravy the 
yolks of two eggs, and stir over the fire for a few 
seconds to cook the eggs, without letting the sauce boil. 
Add last of all the cream and a few drops of lemon 
juice j pour the sauce over the cutlets, and serve. 



116 DIET AND COOKERY. 

Seakale. — Wash some seakale, and tie it in bundles. 
Put it into boiling salted water, and boil it gently for 
about twenty minutes, or till tender. Drain and serve. 

Savoury Jelly. — Soak an ounce of gelatine in cold 
water to cover it for half an hour. Put a pint and 
a half of second stock or water into a perfectly clean 
saucepan with the gelatine, a small piece of leek, one 
shallot, a piece of celery, a blade of mace, and either the 
strained juice of two lemons or a tablespoonful of 
vinegar, one gill of sherry and half a teaspoonful of 
salt, also the whites and cleaned shells of two eggs. 
Whisk the jelly till it rises in the pan, let it boil, draw 
the pan back and let it stand for twenty minutes ; then 
pour it gently into a jelly bag, disturbing the scum, 
which will act as a filter, as little as possible. When 
clear, put it into small glasses, and drop one or two 
leaves of tarragon and chervil in to set with it. 

Salted Almonds. — Take two ounces of sweet almonds, 
throw them into boiling water, and let them remain on 
the fire till the skin can be slipped off easily. Skin 
them, di-y them in the oven. Make a tablespoonful of 
oil or butter hot in the frying-pan, and fry the almonds 
in it till lightly browned. Drain, and dust with fine salt, 
and toss the nuts until each one is savoured. If pre- 
ferred, the almonds can be served hot as soon as salted, 
or they may be set aside until quite cold. As a salted 
relish, eaten very sparingly, we may ignore the small 
quantity of sugar present. 



THE GOUTY HABIT. 



We need not concern ourselves with what pre- 
cisely is meant by the word gout, for in so doing we 
should run the risk of raising a cloud of disputants, 
without the likelihood that any further light Avould 
be thro^vn upon the subject itself. If, however, we 
state the case broadly, and declare gout to be a vice 
of the system, specially affecting the uric acid ex- 
change, and showing itself by depositions of this 
material (chalk stones) in the joints and fibrous 
structures of the body, with the Hability to inflam- 
matory attacks in these same parts, all will agree 
that we have described a sahent feature of gout, 
which will appeal to all parts of the house, from 
gallery to stalls. For other symptoms and features 
of gout — and their name is legion — we must be 
content to relegate them to the doctor. Let him 
make the diagnosis, and then approve of our 
diet list 

Uric acid is a nitrogenised body, and in gout we 

8 



118 DIET AND COOKERY 

have, therefore, a perturbation of the nitrogenous 
waste of the system ; but it does not follow that 
07ily the nitrogenised aliments will cause or share in 
this perturbation, and experience teaches us that this 
non-sequitur actually holds. However, having first 
made sure that inactivity — enforced, as from seden- 
tary occupations, or the result of indolence simply 
— is not the cause of the gout present, we shall pro- 
ceed to diet the patient, and we shall begin by 
lessening the amount of animal food : i.e. we shall 
lessen the nitrogenised income. There is no evi- 
dence that the albuminous constituents of animal 
tissues favour gout more than the same constituents 
of vegetable tissues ; and the restriction of animal 
diet is because of the percentage richness of pro- 
teids in the former, and for no other reason. 

We shall then proceed to curtail the consump- 
tion of starchy and sugary compounds : these bodies 
are supposed to interfere with the complete break- 
mg up of nitrogenised compounds. 

Thirdly, we shall keep an open mind as to the 
admission of fat to the dietary: allowing it in 
moderation in those cases where it agrees well, but 
keeping its use under careful observation. 



FOn COMMON AILMENTS. 119 

Fourthly, we shall watch with grave suspicion 
the consumption of alcohol, forbidding absolutely 
the sweeter wines — in particular, port — the sweeter 
ales and beers, and sweetened spirits. If permitted, 
the gouty subject should choose from among the 
following : a dry sherry, a sound claret, whisky ; 
and of these he should partake in very great 
moderation. 

We should add, that some authorities lay 
more stress on the restriction of sugar and starch 
than upon that of animal food itself, and that some 
condemn strongly the use of fat. 

But upon most points, with the exception of 
the alcohol question, we are concerned with re- 
striction — curtailment rather than exclusion; and, 
indeed, the key-note to gouty treatment is ^modera- 
tion. Individual treatment is very important, and 
we must argue ad hominem rather than ad gentem. 
Further, as one author says, we shall have to con- 
sider " very often more the man than the ailment." 

The regimen as thus sketched out will be very 
much upon the] lines of the treatment of obesity, 
but it will differ from it in the restriction of animal 
foods, and in the yet more cautious use of alcohol. 



120 DIET AND COOKERY 

There remains to mention that gouty people are in 
general dyspeptics — or, at any rate, that dyspepsia 
plays an important part in gout. For this reason 
it is necessary to select the foods according to their 
digestibility (see Section on Dyspepsia). We now 
accordingly lay down the following dicta : — 

(1) To limit the bread, rice, and potato group, 
and in particular to avoid all forms of pastry and 
all cakes. Bread in the new state is unsuitable ; 
dry toast, rusks, plain water biscuits (also any 
form of diabetic bread) will be the best to select 
from. 

Sugar and Preserves of all kinds, also sweet 
dried fruits, to avoid. 

(2) Of vegetables, to select the cabbage tribe 
in all its variety, and the salad group, as most 
suitable; but the fruit vegetables may be tried, 
including even the tomato and the cucumber; 
the latter if well boiled. Seakale and asparagus 
may also be tried. Fresh fruits to allow as freely 
as the digestion will permit : bananas and plantains. 
Yams are not suitable. Nuts as a class are too 
indigestible. 

(3) Fats and oils, so far as they are tolerated, to 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 121 

allow ; but foods soaked or cooked in fat or oil, 
being mostly difficult of digestion, to disallow. 

(4) Butcher's meat to be represented by mutton 
or beef — preferably the former. Pork, veal, cured 
meats, potted meats not allowed. Bacon toasted or 
boiled generally suits. Game or poultry permissible. 
Butchers meat at most once a day. 

Fish : the white kinds allowed. 

(5) Milk to be admitted freely ; butter and cream 
cautiously ; cheese to be avoided. 

(6) Eggs not very suitable. 

Plain cooking is indicated ; highly-spiced, elabo- 
rate, tasty dishes should be avoided. 

(7) Alcohol (see above); tea and coffee, if they 
agree ; cocoa, especially that from the nibs, will in 
other cases be the substitute. The table mineral 
waters very suitable. 



122 DIET AND COOKERY 



DIET TABLES FOR GOUTY HABIT. 



First Day. 



FRESH FRUIT. 
Bll£A/CFAST. 

Weak Tea or Cocoa, made from nibs, without Sugar, 
but with Milk ad lib. 
Haddock, plainly boiled. 
Dry Toast (eaten with a very little Butter), 

Luncheon. 

Rice Pudding, with Stewed Apricots. 
Bread. 
Milk, or some Mineral Water, with one or two table- 
spoonfuls of Whiskey, 

Dinner. 

Boiled Fillets of Whiting. 
A slice from a Joint of Mutton or Roast Ptarmigan 
on Toast. 
Broccoli. 
Bird's Nest Pudding, with Milk. 
Rusks. 
Potash, Soda, or Seltzer Water, with one or two table- 
spoonfuls of Whiskey. 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS, 123 



Second Day, 



FRESH FRUIT. 
BjiEAKFAST. 

"Weak Tea or Cocoa, made from nibs, without Sugar, 

but with Milk ad lib. 

Bacon Rashers. 

Stale Bread or thin Dry Toast 

Luncheon. 

Baked Sole. Bread. 
Sound and ripe fresh Fruit. 

Dinner. 

Vegetable Marrow Soup. 

A slice from a Joint or Boiled Fowl or Chicken, with 

Mushrooms. 

Spinach. 

Hydropathic Pudding. 

Fresh Fruits. 



124 DIET AND COOKERY 



RECIPES. 



First JDay. 



Breakfast. 

Tea. — See page 81. 

Cocoa made from Nibs. — This beverage is quite unlike 
cocoa made from the soluble powder, and is much more 
valuable as an article of diet. It has rather a peculiar 
taste, to which, however, the palate soon becomes ac- 
customed ; and when well made, it is clear and bright, 
like coffee. As it is necessary to let it simmer for some 
hours, it must be prepared betimes. In households 
where it is used regularly, a special saucepan is set 
apart for its preparation, and this is kept constantly 
simmering by the side of the stove. 

Allow a teacupful of cocoa nibs for each quart of 
water. Crush the nibs to small pieces under the rolling- 
pin, soak them all night in the requisite quantity of cold 
water, and next day let them simmer gently in the same 
water for six or seven hours. As the water boils away, 
add a little more from time to time, to preserve the 
measure. When sufficiently boiled, strain the liquid ; 
let it go cold, skim the fat from the top, and the cocoa 
is ready. From motives of economy, the old nibs are 
sometimes boiled with the fresh ones. This plan makes 
the cocoa strong, and it extracts the goodness thoroughly 
from the nibs, and thus prevents waste; but the beverage 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 125 

thus produced is less bright than it otherwise would be. 
Cocoa shells are sometimes substituted for cocoa nibs. 
The mode of preparation is the same. 

Cocoa made from Prepared Powder. — There are 
many cocoa powders in the market, but most are not as 
suitable for invalids as cocoa made from nibs. When 
any special mode of preparation is recommended, 
directions for making are given with the package, and 
these should be followed. When no directions are given, 
the quantity of cocoa required should be mixed to a 
paste with cold water ; boiling milk, or boiling milk and 
water, or boiling water should then be poured in 
gradually with one hand, while the preparation should 
be stirred gently with the other. 

Chocolate. — Carefully made chocolate is a very 
delicious drink, and though not suitable in the present 
case, when suited to the condition of the invalid it 
makes a pleasant change. It is sold in the form of 
squares or fingers. The following is the method of 
preparation. Put a small piece of chocolate (about 
half an ounce) into a saucepan with a cup of boiling 
water. Stir till the chocolate is dissolved ; as soon as 
the water boils add a teacupful of milk and a lump of 
sugar. When the chocolate boils once more, serve 
immediately. Continued boiling will spoil it. 

As the size of the shapes and the strength of 
chocolate of different makers varies, it is well to 
experiment with one sort until it is found how much 
chocolate is needed to make for a cup. Chocolate that 

1^ TV 



126 DIET AND OOOKEBY 

is over-strong is indigestible and not agreeable to the 
taste. 

Haddock, plainly/ Boiled. — Cleanse a moderate-sized 
haddock, remove its eyes, and truss it with its tail in its 
mouth. Put a few peppercorns, some salt, and a littlo 
vinegar into as much water as will cover the fish. Bring 
this to the boil, lower the fish into it, bring it again to 
the boiling point, and simmer till done. The time re- 
quired will depend on the size and thickness of the fish. 

Toast. — See page 85. 

Luncheon. 

Plain Rice Pudding, with Stewed Apricots or other 
Fresh Fruit. — Wash the rice in two or three waters. 
This will get rid of the loose starch, and will also do 
much to prevent burning. If a milky pudding is 
wanted, two tablespoonfuls of rice will be enough for 
a quart of milk. When a solid pudding is preferred, 
it is not unusual to allow nine times as much milk as 
there is rice. For gouty patients, however, the milky 
pudding is the better of the two. 

A simple way of making the pudding is to put a 
pinch of salt and a little grated lemon rind with the rice 
after it has been washed, pour the milk over it, and 
bake it very slowly in a cool oven. So long as it cooks 
at all, the more slowly it is baked the more the grains 
will swell, and the more digestible the pudding will be. 
A piece of butter about the size of a threepenny piece 
should be put with it, and it should not be stirred after 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 127 

it has once begun to bake. One way of ascertaining 
whether or not the rice is sufficiently^cookeJ is to raise 
the dish at the side a little. If the rice and milk 
move together, the rice is cooked ; but if the milk moves 
and the rice remains at the bottom, it is not. 

Apricots, PeacheSy or Apples Stewed. — When stewing 
fruit, it is most important that a dainty saucepan should 
be used for the purpose. A vessel that has been used 
for meat or gravy, even though it has been thoroughly 
cleansed, is liable to convey an unpleasant flavour. Also 
the fruit should be gently stewed ; if boiled hard it will 
break, and be comparatively worthless. When fruit is 
very acid, and when it is necessary, as in the present 
case, to be sparing in the use of sugar, a very small 
pinch of carbonate of soda may be put with the juices, 
and this will to some extent modify the acidity. 

Mineral water or milk, with one or even two table- 
spoonfuls of whiskey, may be allowed with the pudding 
and fruit. 

Boiled Fillets of Whiting. — Whiting is exceedingly 
delicate fish, and very easy to digest. Fillet it by 
passing the knife from the tail to the head, and lifting 
the flesh from the bone on both sides. Divide each side 
into halves, trim the fillets into good shape^ pepper 
and salt them, and boil them in salted water to which a 
few drops of lemon-juice have been added. Let them 
simmer gently for a few minutes till cooked through, 



DIET AND OOOKERY 



but they must not be overcooked. Take up carefully 
with a slice, dish prettily, and sprinkle chopped parsley 
on the top. Fish cooked according to this simple recipe 
will be excellent if it is served hot, and if everything 
about it is hot. If half cold it will not be worth eating. 

Ptarmigan. — Of late years ptarmigan have been 
offered for sale in England in great abundance, and 
when they can be obtained of good quality they are 
excellent. They vary very much, however, and there- 
fore they need to be carefully chosen. It is said that 
they are really grouse, whose plumage has been affected 
by climate, and their flavour by food. Birds, we are 
told, that have fed on young mountain firs have a 
taste of turpentine, and are worthless. Those that have 
fed on the open plains are nearly equal to English 
grouse. A delicate scent will detect the "turpentine 
smell." The birds should be bought at a good shop. 

Ptarmigan should be young and plump, and they 
should be well hung. They should be trussed like a 
fowl, roasted before the fire or baked in the oven, and 
basted as much as possible with hot fat. They will take 
from twenty-five to thirty minutes. When almost done 
a slice of toast should be put under them. Crumbs 
made from the crust of bread grated and used dry, 
or from the inside of a stale loaf, crumbled, passed 
through a sieve and dried in the oven, may be handed 
round with the game. 

Broccoli. — For all practical purposes broccoli and 
cauliflower are the same vegetable, though epicures say 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 129 

that the cauliflower has the more delicate flavour of the 
two. An advantage which belongs to broccoli is that it 
is less likely to have caterpillars in it than the other. 
The secret of making it mellow is to cut the root right 
across, to put into fast-boiling water to oover it, and to 
put into the water with it whilst it is boiling a knob of 
butter and a little salt. When the flowers are soft it 
should be quickly and thoroughly strained. A little 
sauce may be poured over it in the dish. 

Bird's-Nest Pudding. — Butter a pudding-dish, and 
put into it two tablespoonfuls of bullet sago well washed, 
a pinch of salt, the rind and juice of a lemon, and a 
slight sprinkling of sugar, the less the better. Fill the 
dish with warm water. Pare four or five good cooking 
apples, and remove the core without breaking the fruit. 
Bake till the apples are tender and the sago transparent, 
and serve with milk. 

Second Day, 



Breakfast. 
Bacon. — Rashers of bacon served at breakfast may 
be fried in a frying-pan, broiled, or toasted in a Dutch- 
oven, or with a toasting-fork, till the fat is quite clear. 
Of these three methods the last is the best, and the first 
is the worst. The rashers should be cut as thin as 
possible, and the rind should be trimmed away. When 
the employment of a frying-pan cannot be avoided, the 
cooking should be very slowly done, and the bacon 
should be turned occasionally. It is important that 



130 DIET AND COOKERY 

the pan used should be daintily clean, and not at all 
burnt or black. If a little butter or bacon-fat be made 
hot in the pan before the bacon is put in, the dish will 
be improved thereby. This plan is not usual, but it is to 
be recommended. 

Luncheon. 

Baked Sole. — Skin the fish, lift the fillets from the 
bones, and trim them neatly. Grease a shallow tin 
sparingly, enough to keep the fish from sticking to the 
pan ; lay the fillets in it, season them with pepper and 
salt, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over them ; then 
cover with a dish, and leave plenty of room for soft 
cooking. In ten or twelve minutes they will be ready. 
Take up with a slice, garnish with parsley, and serve 

hot. 

Dinner. 

Vegetable Marrow Soup. — Pare, seed, and quarter a 
moderate-sized marrow, and put it into a stewpan with 
light stock to cover it, an onion, and a little pepper and 
salt. Let it simmer gently until quite soft, then rub it 
through a sieve, and mix with the pulp a little more 
stock. Make it hot, and add at the last moment about 
a pint of boiling milk. 

JB oiled Fowl or Chicken with Mushrooms. — When., 
well cooked this is a dainty dish, and it is very 
wholesome and digestible. The bird should be plucked 
and drawn with great care ; indeed, a chicken needs to 
be handled very gently, because the skin is so tender 
that it tears very easily. Truss it quite firmly, rub the 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 131 

breast with a cut lemon, and wrap the bird in a floured 
cloth, plunge it into hot water, and when it boils draw 
the pan back, and simmer gently till done, skimming 
occasionally. It will take three-quarters of an hour or 
longer, according to size, but the more slowly it is cooked 
the better it will be. It will be more tasty if an onion 
and a small bunch of herbs be put in the water with 
it. Before serving, a little sauce may be poured over 
it, and the rest may be sent to table in a boat. Fried 
bacon should be served with the dish. 

Mushroom Sauce. — Take about a dozen freshly 
gathered mushrooms, peel them, removing all the upper 
skin, and sprinkle salt among the gills. Let them lie in 
a cool cellar for two or three hours, by which time the 
salt will have drawn from them a rich dark-coloured 
juice, probably enough to cook them in ; but if there is 
not, half a cupful of boiling water or stock may be added. 
Simmer for a few minutes, season with pepper, and serve 
either poured over the chicken or in a separate dish. 

Spinach. — Wash the spinach in several waters ; this 
is necessary because it has a good deal of grit hanging 
about it. Afterwards trim it carefully, and remove the 
stalk from eveiy leaf; if fully grown, the vein that runs 
up the leaf will need to be trimmed away also. If 
the spinach is young, it may be boiled without more 
water than clings to the leaves j if old, it should be put 
into lightly salted boiling water. In either case it will 
need to be pressed down with a spoon. When tender, 
drain it and squeeze the water from it, then either 



132 DIET AND 000KER7. 

rub it through a sieve to make it smooth or chop it 
finely. A few minutes before it is wanted, strain 
away any moisture that may have run from it with 
standing, put it again into the stewpan, with a table- 
spoonful of milk or gravy, and a little pepper and salt. 
Turn it about till it is hot through and has become 
dry. Have ready a hot mould, put the spinach into it, 
press it to make it take the shape of the mould, turn it 
into a hot tureen, and serve. 

In ordinary cases, when fat is not considered objec- 
tionable, a good slice of butter should be put into the 
stewpan with the spinach, and the vegetable should be 
turned about with this until dry. For gouty subjects, 
however, fat in cookery is to be avoided, and for them, 
therefore, gravy is substituted. 

Hydropathic Pudding. — Take fresh fruit in season, 
and stew it with a little water to make it soft. Whilst 
it is cooking prepare a basin to receive it. Take a slice 
of stale bread. Stamp out of it a round piece about the 
size of half-a- crown, and place this at the bottom of the 
basin ; arrange round it in an upright position, and 
with an inch and a half between each, thin strips of 
bread cut into fingers, of a size to come to the top of the 
basin. While the stewed fruit is warm, put it gently, a 
spoonful at a time, into the basin, trying not to disturb 
the bread. Cover the surface with bread cut into dice 
and with crumbs, put a saucer with a weight on the top, 
and leave it till cold. The pudding will turn out in 
a shape. 



GRAVEL AND STONE (URIC ACID 
VARIETY OF). 



In these disorders the same substance which in 
gout tends to separate within the tissues of the 
body, tends here to separate within the urinary 
passages ; but this, as Sir W. Roberts draws atten- 
tion to, is a very important distinction, since the 
precipitation within the urinary passages is, physio- 
logically considered, outside the tissues. What the 
exact relationship is between gravel and gout is 
not very clear, but they are certainly not two forms 
of one and the same thing. However, the fault in 
each case is an excess of uric acid, and, provisionally 
we may therefore apply the same dietetic treatment. 
We shall, hence, exercise especial caution in the use 
of alcohol, sugars, starches, and fat ; and we shall 
restrict the use of animal food. In both gout and 
gravel we ought to start with a prejudice against 
fat. 



184 DIET AND COOKERY 



DIETARY TABLES FOR GRAVEL AND 

STONE. 



First Day, 



Breakfast. 

Tea, Coflfee, or Cocoa made from nibs, with Milk ad lib. 

(all without sugar). Stewed Mushrooms. 

Dry Toast or stale Bread and Butter in modei-ation. 

Luncheon. 

Sole on Toast. Baked Apple. Rusks. 

Dinner. 

A small slice from a Joint, or Sweetbread. 

One Potato baked in its skin. Turnip Tops. 

Blancmange made with skimmed milk. 

Celery or Plain Salad, with Water Biscuits and a little 

Butter. 



Second Day, 



•/;!; Breakfast. 

Tea, Coffee, or Cocoa made from nibs, with Milk ad lib 

(all without sugar). 

Rasher of Bacon. Dry Toast or stale Bread and Butter. 

Tomato Sandwiches. 

Luncheon. 

Filleted Plaice, baked. Sago Shape. Small Biscuits 

with very little Butter. 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS, 13& 

Dinner. 

A small slice from a Joint, or Minced Collops. 

Rice served as a vegetable, plainly boiled. Greens. 

Apple Mould. Devonshire Junket. 

Cheese, such as Brie or Camembert, with Watercress and 

plain Biscuit. 



RECIPES. 



First Day. 



Breakfast. 

For tea or cofifee, see pp. 81, 89. 

Cocoa made from Nibs. — See p. 124. 

Stewed Mushrooms. — Mushrooms that are to be used 
for breakfast will probably have been gathered over- 
night. Peel them as soon as they are delivered, put 
them with the handles sticking up into a soup-plate, 
and spiinkle a little salt about the gills. Leave them 
till wanted. The salt will draw out of them a rich 
wine- tinted juice, and there will probably be enough for 
stewing them. If there is not as much gravy as is 
needed, a wineglassful of hot water and a knob of butter, 
or preferably a little cream, may be put with them. 
Stir the mushrooms till they bubble. Have ready a 
slice of bread toasted on both sides. When the mush- 
room gravy rises in the pan, the mushrooms will be 



196 DIET ANT) COOKERY 

cooked. Turn them at once over the toast in a deep 
dish, and pepper them well : they are already sufficiently 
salted Either cream or broth, or a mixture of the two, 
may be used for stewing mushrooms thus ; but both the 
butter or cream should be used very moderately. 

Luncheon. 

Sole on Toast — Take a small sole, and lift the flesh 
from the bone to make four fillets. Trim these, and 
twist them neatly ; then put them into a saucepan with 
a gill of boiling water, a few drops of lemon-juice, pep- 
per, and salt. Bring the water again to the boil, draw 
the pan back, and simmer gently for five minutes. 
Drain and lay each fillet on a square of toast, mix a 
little milk with the stock, and add a little chopped 
parsley ; pour a spoonful of sauce over each fillet, and 
serve. 

Apple, Baked. — See p. 89. 

jD/nnmr. 

Sweetbread. — This food is very easy of digestion, and 
therefore when carefully prepared it is very suitable for 
those who are not in robust health. The following is a 
simple way of cooking it, when basting it or frying in 
fat is not allowable. Procure a young sweetbread, wash 
it as soon as it is sent in, and lay it in salt and water for 
an hour ; then parboil it for about ten minutes. Take it 
up, lay it in cold water, and when quite cold, peel it and 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 137 

trim it, carefully removing all loose skin and gristle, and 
leaving only the soft white meat. Put it back again 
into the saucepan with stock to cover it, an onion, pepper 
and salt, and a little lemon-juice. Simmer for about 
twenty minutes, dish the sweetbread on toast, pour 
the sauce over it, and send rashers of bacon to table 
with it. A little milk may be added to the sauce if 
Uked. 

Baked Potato. — See p. 150. 

Turnip Tops furnish an excellent vegetable ; their 
slightly bitter taste is generally approved by dainty 
eaters. They need to be carefully prepared, however, 
if they are to be enjoyed in perfection. Wash them 
thoroughly, and trim away all the stalks. Throw them 
into plenty of fast-boiling salted water, and boil them 
quickly with the lid oflf the pan till tender. Draw the 
water from them, pressing them well, chop finely, return 
them to the saucepan, dredge with pepper, and flavour 
with a few drops of vinegar. Toss over the fire till hot, 
mould in a hot basin, and serve. 

Blancmange made with Skimmed Milk. — Soak half 
an ounce of refined gelatine in cold water, to cover it, for 
an hour or more. Boil a pint of milk with an inch of stick 
cinnamon till agreeably flavoured, and sweeten it with 
saccharine if approved, or put a little salt with it. Pour 
it boiling on the gelatine, and stir till the latter is dis- 
solved. When cold, strain the milk through muslin, and 
when it is beginning to thicken, put it into a prettily 
shaped mould, and serve on a glass dish. 



138 DIET AND COOKERY 

Second Day. 



Breakfast, 

Rasher of Bacon. — See p. 129. 

Tomato Sandwiches. — Out wholemeal bread, or white 
bread two days old, into sKces, and butter them very 
lightly. Have ready some ripe, fresh tomatoes which 
have been cut into slices with a sharp knife and salted 
rather liberally. Sandwich the tomatoes between two 
pieces of bread and butter, press them well together, and 
cut into fingers. Pile them crosswise on a dish, and 
garnish with parsley. These sandwiches are very re- 
freshing and appetising. 

Luncheon. 

Filleted Plaice, Baked. — Choose a thick plaice. Wash 
it well in cold water, and dry it in a cloth; then put it on 
a board, with a sharp knife remove the skin from the 
back of the fish, cut off the head and tail and take the 
flesh from the bones, dividing it into neat pieces con- 
venient for serving. Lay the pieces in a single layer 
in a buttered baking-tin, pepper and salt them, and 
squeeze the juice of a lemon over them; then cover 
with greased paper. Bake in a moderate oven for ten 
or twelve minuter. Serve with Worcester Sauce. 

The fillets of many soi"ts of fish are excellent when 
cooked in this simple way. Should the small amount 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS, ld9( 

of butter here used tax the digestion, exchange for 
boiled plaice. 

Sago Shape. — Soak two tablespoonfuls of sago for an 
hour in milk, then boil with more milk to make up the 
quantity to a pint. Boil till clear, add flavouring, with 
saccharine if desired, and stir in a tablespoonful of gela- 
tine which has been soaked in water for an hour and 
dissolved. Mix thoroughly ; when quite cold pour into 
a shape, and turn out for use next day. A little stewed 
fresh fruit may be served with this dish. 

J?/NNER. 

Minced Collops au Naturel. — Take half a pound of 
tender rump-steak, free from fat, skin, and gristle. 
Mince it well, and season it with pepper and salt. Put 
it into a daintily clean saucepan, set it on a gentle fire, 
and let it simmer very slowly in its own gravy for ten 
or twelve minutes, stirring it with a fork to keep it from 
getting into lumps. If it should get too dry, add half a 
gill of boiling stock or gravy, simmer two minutes longer, 
and serve. This very simple dish is sometimes much 
liked by invalids. 

Rice Served as a Vegetable. — Rice that is to be used 
as a substitute for potato may be prepared in two ways : 
either it may be plainly boiled as for curry, or it may be 
cooked in stock, and made savoury with onions, etc. 
Two recipes are here given, but gouty patients would do 
well to prefer rice plainly boiled. 



140 DIET AND OOOKEBY 

Rice Plainly Boiled. — Choose Patna rice for the 
purpose. Wash it in two or three waters, drain it, 
and throw it into plenty of fast-boiling salted water. 
Two quarts of water will be needed for a quarter of 
a pound of rice. Boil ft-st for thirteen minutes, or 
till the grains crush easily between the thumb and finger. 
Pour the water off, and let it dry in front of the fire, 
stirring it with a fork now and again to separate the 
grains. 

Rice Cooked in Stock. — Take a good-sized onion, 
chop it finely, and fry it in fat till lightly browned. Put 
it in a stewpan with a cupful of rice and a quart of well- 
flavoured stock. Let it boil, then draw the pan back, 
and simmer gently till the rice swells and becomes 
tender. As the rice absorbs the liquid, add more, and 
stir the rice or shake the pan occasionally to prevent 
burning. Season with salt and cayenne, and, if ap- 
proved, add about two tablespoonfuls of grated Par- 
mesan before serving. Also, if approved, a tiny pinch of 
powdered saflfron or a gill of tomato pur^e may be 
stewed with the rice to colour and flavour it. 

Greens should be well washed and cleansed, then 
plunged into plenty of salted water that is boiling fast, 
and boiled with the lid off". When done, turn them into 
a warm colander, and squeeze the water from them with 
the back of a plate. Put them into a hot vegetable-dish, 
sprinkle pepper and salt on them, and cut them across 
several times. 

Apple Mould. — Take a pound of baking apples, pare, 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 141 

core, and quarter them, and put them into a baking-dish 
or stewpan with a little water, and let them cook gently 
till soft. Whilst they are simmering, put half an ounce 
of gelatine to soak in a gill of water. Beat the apple to 
pulp, dissolve the gelatine, put it with the fruit, add 
a little lemon-juice or grated nutmeg, and mould when 
cold. If sweetness is desired, this dish may be sweetened 
with saccharine, and the lemon-juice may be omitted. 
It is to be remembered, however, that in the disease 
now under consideration, special caution is to be exer- 
cised in the use of sugar. 

Devonshire Junket. — Heat a pint of new milk till luke- 
warm, and sweeten and flavour it with saccharine, a tiny 
pinch of powdered cinnamon, and a dessertspoonful 
of brandy. Pour the flavoured milk into the dish in 
which it is to be served, and stir into it a dessertspoonful 
of prepared rennet ; then leave it untouched until it 
is firm. It will probably arrive at this condition in 
about three hours. The more rennet used, the more 
quickly it will turn ; but the less rennet used, the more 
dainty the junket will be, so long as there is enough to 
turn it at all. Rennet varies in strength, so that it 
is scarcely possible to say exactly how much will be 
requirecL 



EHEUMATISM. 



This heading covers more than one affection ; and, 
unqualified, it is sufficiently vague. It is necessary, 
in the first place, to exclude acute rheumatism (or 
rheumatic fever, as it is frequently called) ; and in 
the next place — a more difficult task — the affection 
known technically as rheumatoid arthritis, and, 
popularly, as rheumatic gout. Thus expurgated, 
rheumatism will constitute a chronic trouble, 
characterised by pain and stiffness in one or more 
joints, or in certain muscles of the body (muscular 
rheumatism). 

The disease is, unfortunately, very common^ not 
to say popular, and we need not be more precise in 
defining it ; but, at the same time, though we do all 
" know rheumatism," yet we must noc overlook 
certain affinities to gout, as well as to the above- 
mentioned diseases, and be sure of the mischief 
confronting us before we attempt to treat it. 



DIET AND COOKERY. 143 

The diet in rheumatism will resemble that in 
gout in the avoidance of the sugar group : sweet 
foods, sweet drinks, and, in particular, the sweeter, 
more fruity wines, and the more full-bodied ales 
and beers. This will be the chief abstention. Un- 
sweetened spirit, preferably whisky, is the best form 
of alcohol. 

The bread, rice, and potato group is allowable 
in moderation, and so far as the digestion can cope 
with it. Rheumatic subjects are often the victims 
of acid dyspepsia, and must, on this account, be 
cautious in the use of this group. In any case, no 
forms of pastry or cake are allowed. 

Fats, so far as they are assimilable, appear to be 
beneficial. We should, indeed, rather press this 
group. 

Albuminous foods : Meats should be taken in 
moderation, and plainly dressed. We should restrict 
the quality perhaps more than the quantity — e.^. ; 
of fish, allowing the lighter kinds, white ; of birds, 
the white-fleshed poultry and game (wild-fowl are 
less suitable) ; of meats, mutton preferably ; and of 
the special parts of animals, tripe, sweetbread, brains, 
calf's head, caK's feet will be found suitable. Cured 



144 DIET AND COOKERY 

meats should not be eaten. Eggs and milk may be 
taken without restriction. 

We have said nothing about vegetables and 
fruits. These may be enjoyed in the fresh state, 
with few exceptions ; of the former, we shall do 
well to avoid carrots, and parsnips, and beet, and to 
be cautious with the group of the fruit- vegetables ; 
of fruits, we shall avoid those which require sugar 
as an accessory, unless we are content to forego the 
sugar; also plums and cherries. Preserved and 
dried fruits are not advisable. The presence of 
dyspepsia — as stated, a not infrequent accompani- 
ment of rheumatism — will involve, on its own 
account, other restrictions. 

Rheumatism is found among the full of habit 
and the generous-living, but it torments also the 
ill-fed and ill-clothed ; and whilst the former will 
require a more abstemious mode of living, the 
latter will need feeding-up, but this may be done 
on the lines just mentioned. 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 145 



DIETARY TABLES FOR RHEUMATISM. 



First Day, 



Breakfast. 
Tea or Cocoa, with plenty of Milk, but without Sugar. 

Ox Eyes (Baked Egg on a round of Toast). 
Toast or Stale Bread, with Butter. A Baked Apple. 

Luncheon, 
Boiled Tripe. Onion Sauce. Potato, Boiled, Baked, or 

Roasted. 

Dinner. 

Julienne Soup. Marengo of Chicken. Fried Potatoes. 

Cauliflower with Sauce Blanche. 

Lemon Rice Pudding. 



Second Day. 



Breakfast. 
Tea or Cocoa, with plenty of Milk, but without Sugar. 
Bacon, Toast, with Butter. Fresh Fruit. 

Luncheon. 
Savoury Omelette. Apple Snow and Milk. 

Dinner. 

Boiled Turbot. Loin of Mutton, Boned and Rolled. 

Browned Potato. Seakale. 

Ladywell Pudding. 



146 DIET AND COOKERY 



RECIPES. 



First Day. 



Breakfast. 

rea.— See p. 81. 

Ox Eyes. — Take some stale bread, and cut a slice 
three-quarters of an inch thick. Toast and stamp it 
into rounds with the top of a teacup, and out of the 
middle of each one take a smaller round, the size of the 
top of an egg-cup, being careful to keep the bottom 
of the round whole. Butter a dish that can be put into 
the oven, lay the rings in it, salt them, then cover them 
with milk, and let them soak till soft. Drain away the 
milk, and put a raw egg in the middle of each ring ; 
sprinkle a little pepper and salt on them, and put a 
teaspoonful of milk on each ^^^g. Cover and bake in 
a hot oven until the whites are set, but they must 
not brown. If the dish on which they are baked 
cannot be sent to table, take up the eyes carefully with 
a slice, and place on a hot dish. 

Baked Apple. — See p. 89. 

Luncheon. 

Boiled Tinpe. Onion Sauce. — When daintily cooked, 
tripe is easily digested and wholesome ; when insuffi- 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 147 

ciently boiled, it is hard, leathery, and unpalatable. It 
is cheap meat, and is generally plentiful in large towns. 
It is partially boiled before it is offered for sale, and 
some people think that on this account it needs very 
little cooking after it is brought home. This is a 
mistake. The preliminary boiling which it receives from 
the dresser is part of the process of cleansing it, not of 
cooking it, and this has to be done thoroughly, because 
it is most necessary that tripe should be scrupulously 
cleansed. It can be cooked in several ways. With 
them all it should, in the first instance, be blanched — 
that is, it should be put into a saucepan of cold watar, 
allowed to boil, then taken out and scraped. 

There are two or three sorts of tripe. What are 
called "blanket," or "double," and "honeycomb" tripe 
are understood to be the best. 

To boil one pound of tripe, blanch it, then cut 
it into neat squares of about two inches. Put it into a 
saucepan with a pint of milk, and with it four onions 
which have been peeled and cut through into quarters ; 
bring the milk to the boil, and simmer for at least 
two hours. If, at the end of that time, the tripe 
feels quite soft when a fork is pushed into it, it is 
enough ; if not, it must be simmered a little longer. 
Take out the onions, and chop them finely. Mix a 
dessertspoonful of flour with a little pepper and salt 
to a smooth paste with cold water in a basin. Take 
up the pieces of tripe, and stir the hot milk to the 
thickening. Stir again over the fire with the onions till 



U8 DIET AND OOOKERY 

the sauce boils ; put in the tripe once more, and simmer 
again for about ten minutes, or till the tripe is hot 
through. Serve very hot. 

Potato. — A potato perfectly boiled is a greater rarity 
than at first sight appears. Because the work neces- 
sary thereto is easy, it is too often carelessly performed. 
The condition of the saucepan used for boiling has 
a great deal to do with the excellence of the potato. 
A saucepan that is used for stews and general cookery 
ought not to be used also for boiling potatoes. It is 
well to reserve a special saucepan for this purpose. Also 
it is to be remembered that old potatoes and new 
potatoes must be treated difierently, and that potatoes 
that break easily are best when steamed. 

To Boil Old Potatoes. — First wash and well brush 
the potatoes, and as each one is peeled throw it into a 
bowl of clean cold water ; on no account let it lie in the 
same water with the parings and refuse. When peeling 
it, carefully remove the specks and eyes, and peel the 
skin as thinly as possible. The potatoes will be better 
for lying in water for a while. Take care also to cook 
together potatoes of an equal size. Drain the potatoes 
and put them into a saucepan with as much cold water 
as will abundantly cover them, and bring them to the 
boil very gently, the slower the better. When they 
can be pierced through with a fork, drain off the water, 
cover them closely with a clean, soft cloth, put the lid 
on the pan, and set the pan by the side of the stove 
for ten minutes or so, that the potatoes may finish 



FOE COMMON AILMENTS. 149 

cooking in their own steam. Shake them a little, and 
serve. 

To Steam Potatoes. — Prepare the potatoes as above, 
put them into the steamer over a saucepan of fast- 
boiling water, and let them steam till a fork will pierce 
them. Lift the steamer off the saucepan, cover the 
potatoes with a cloth, let them stand two or three 
minutes, shake, and serve. 

To Boil New Potatoes. — New potatoes are never so 
good as when freshly dug out of the ground. For 
boiling, choose them of one size, wash and brush their 
well. As each one is finished, throw it into clean cold 
water. If the potatoes are not quite fresh, they will 
need to be lightly scraped with a knife, instead of being 
brushed only. Put them into boiling water, sprinkle 
salt over them, and boil them until they feel tender 
when pierced with a fork. Draw off the water, lay a 
clean cloth over them, put the lid on the pan, and 
let them stand by the side of the fire till quite dry. 
Serve on a hot, folded napkin, and do not put the cover 
on the tureen. 

Boasted Potatoes. — When the fire is suited to this 
mode of cookery, medium-sized potatoes are excellent for 
eating after being buried in the ashes of an open fire for 
half an hour or more, according to their size. The dust 
should then be brushed off, and the skins burst by 
squeezing. It is to be noted that potatoes which have been 
baked in the oven or roasted in hot ashes are more 
valuable for invalids than potatoes boiled 
F 



150 DIET AND COOKEBY 

Baked Potato. — Potatoes of a moderate size sliould be 
chosen for baking, and when two or three are to be 
cooked at one time, they should be as nearly as possible 
of a size. Wash in lukewarm water, and brush until 
thoroughly clean. Dry with a cloth, and bake in a 
very hot oven until they feel soft when squeezed with a 
cloth held in the hands. They ought to be cooked enough 
in from forty-five to fifty minutes. It is to be noted 
that potatoes baked in a hot oven are more easy of 
digestion than if slowly baked. When ready, they 
should be pressed until they crack slightly, as this will 
keep them from becoming heavy. They should be 
dished upon a hot napkin. 

Julienne Soup is simply clear soup which has shred 
vegetables thrown into it as a garnish. 

To make the Clear Soup proceed as follows : — Take 
two pounds of fleshy beef, without fat or skin, from the 
silver-side or buttock, and tie it round to make it 
compact. Put it into an enamelled saucepan, or into an 
earthenware pipkin, if such a thing is at hand, and let it 
brown over the fire for ten minutes. Turn it once 
during the time, and move it to keep it from burning, 
sticking a large fork into it when doing so to let the 
gravy escape. A few bones may be put with it, and 
they will be a valuable addition, provided only that they 
are free from marrow and fat. They should be put 
under the meat. Pour on three pints of cold water, and 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 151 

add a small tablespoonful of salt. LeX the liquor come 
very slowly to the boil, and carefully remove the scum as 
it rises. Throw in a teacupful of cold water, bring to 
the point of boiling again, and skim again. Repeat this 
process three times. When no more scum rises, put 
in two carrots, a turnip, two onions, one leek, a bunch of 
parsley, four bay-leaves, and four cloves ; draw the pan 
to the side of the stove, and simmer gently for four 
hours. If the scum is effectually removed in the first 
instance, this soup will not need to be clarified, and 
it will be clear and bright like sherry. 

If liked, half the quantity of beef can be used when 
making this soup, and a little Liebig's extract of meat 
can be stirred in at the last to make it taste stronger. 

To prepare the shred vegetables for Julienne soup, 

take a carrot and a turnip. Scrape the carrot, cut it 

into slices about an inch long, and pare these round and 

round in ribbons ; then cut the ribbons into strips, thus 

making them into lengths of the size and thickness of 

half a match. Peel the turnip, and cut it into slices, 

and afterwards divide these into strips of the same 

size. Throw the vegetables into clear water as they 

are done ; boil the turnips for five mmutes, the carrots 

for fifteen minutes, then drain them ; throw them into 

the soup. Under ordinary circumstances, prepared 

vegetables should be fried in a little butter till lightly 

browned, then simmered gently in the soup. For the 

use of invalids, however, they are better plainly boiled, 

because thus cooked they are more digestible. 



152 DIET AND COOKERY 

Vegetables already prepared for Julienne can be 
bought at any Italian warehouse. They require to be 
soaked overnight, and boiled gently till perfectly tender. 

It is not unusual to have a little onion and celery, 
cut into strips, put into Julienne garnish, as well as 
turnip and carrot. To make a change also, asparagus 
tips can be added in spring, peas in summer, and French 
beans in autumn. The green vegetables ought, how- 
ever, to be boiled apart from the rest of the garnish, 
or they will lose their colour. 

Marengo of Chicken, — A Marengo of Chicken can 
only be produced in perfection from a young bird. It is 
a very appetising dish. 

Divide the chicken into ten pieces — that is, two legs, 
two wings, two pinions, two back pieces, and two breast 
pieces. The wings should be taken with the muscle 
belonging to them, and cut from the body slantwise, 
so that the flesh can be laid over the bone. The legs 
should be cut as long as possible. 

Pour a quarter of a pint of salad oil into a stewpan, 
and make it hot. Throw in a shallot, a little salt, five 
or six peppercorns, a small blade of mace, and a pinch 
of herbs, and, after stirring these over the fire for a 
minute or two, put in the pieces of chicken, and turn 
them about till they take a good brown all over. Drain 
away the oil, and remove the herbs, etc. Pour a 
pint of stock over the chicken in the same stewpan, and 
simmer tliree-quarters of an hour. Now add a quarter 
of a pint of tomato pur^e, a little piece of glaze about the 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 153 

size of a nut, and, if they are to be had, a dozen button 
mushrooms. Simmer some minutes longer, and serve. 
When preparing this dish, it is necessary to remember 
that the legs need to be cooked a little longer than 
the other portions of the bird. They should, therefore, 
be put into the oil first and taken out last. 

Fried Potatoes. — See p. 205. 

Cauliflower with Sauce Blanche. — Boil a cauliflower 
or broccoli until it is mellow and tender (see Broccoli, 
p. 128). Drain it well, and squeeze it to make it round 
and compact. Pour a little Sauce Blanche over it, and 
serve hot. 

Sau^e Blanche. — Mix three-quarters of an ounce of 
flour to a smooth paste with a little cold water, and 
pour on it as much boiling water as will make the 
entire quantity half a pint, stirring it well. Put it in a 
small saucepan, and stir it till it boils. Let it cool ; 
add the yolk of an egg and a little salt. The ordinary 
way of making Sauce Blanche is to melt an ounce of 
butter in a small saucepan, mix three-quarters of an 
ounce of flour with it, and add the water and yolk of 
egg. Sauce thus made is mellower and richer than 
when made as described above. It is, however, also 
less digestible ; therefore, when wanted for the use of 
invalids, it should be plainly made. A knob of cold 
butter may be stirred into it at the last moment if 
approved. 

Lemon Rice Pudding. — Wash a small teacupful of 
rice, and boil it in a pint of milk till soft. Add a little 



354 DIET AND COOKERY 

saccharine or sugar, an egg, and the grated rind of a 
large lemon. Turn into a buttered dish, and bake in 
a moderate oven until the surface is lightly browned. 
Pour on the top the juice of a lemon, and serve. 



Second Day, 



Breakfast. 
Tea, — Seep. 81. Bacon, — Seep. 129. Toast. — Seep. 85. 

Luncheon. 

Omelette. — An omelette made with two eggs is a 
very suitable dish for an invalid, and it is very quickly 
and easily made. It is desirable, however, to keep one 
small frying-pan specially for this dish, which should 
never be washed out, but should be rubbed brisklv 
before and after use with clean soft white paper. 

Break two eggs into a basin, remove the specks, beat the 
eggs well, and put with them a little pepper and salt and 
a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. If liked, a pinch 
of finely chopped chives, or a piece of shallot or onion 
the size of a pea, and minced very finely, may also 
be added. Put half an' ounce of butter in the omelette- 
pan, and when very hot pour the beaten eggs, etc., gently 
upon it. In half a minute they will begin to thicken 
and look lumpy. All that is now wanted is to keep 
putting a fork or the blade of a knife under the omelette, 
and scraping it, to prevent it sticking to the pan, 



FOR OOMMON AILMENTS. 155 

especially at the edges and the middle. Leave off 
Bcraping a little before it is firm all over ; lift the handle 
of the pan, and roll the egg together, thus making a sort 
of cushion. Hold it high for a minute, then lower the 
handle of the pan, slip the knife behind the egg, turn 
it over, and slide it on the dish. It ought to be set 
outside, and almost liquid in the centre. It should 
be eaten at once. 

Apple Snow. — Take two or three apples, and bake 
them (see p. 89) till they fall. Scrape out the pulp 
with a silver spoon, and be sure there are no lumps. 
When it is quite cold, whisk the white of an egg till 
it is firm enough to be cut with a spoon. Mix thoroughly, 
and beat well to make a froth or snow; then pile on 
a dish and serve. Sometimes apple prepared thus is put 
into a shallow dish, and baked for a few minutes. The 
thin rind and juice of half a lemon may also be added. 

Dinner, 

Boiled Turhot. — Turbot is easy of digestion, and 
has a delicate flavour ; therefore, when in good con- 
dition, it furnishes excellent food for invalids. The fish 
is at its best when cooked whole, and it would be 
difficult to name a more acceptable dish for a sick 
person than a cut taken from a boiled turbot. At 
the same time, small slices can be taken from it with 
ease, and when special dishes have to be prepared this is 
a convenience. The recipe here given is for cooking 



156 DIET AND COOKERY 

a small piece of turbot. It is to be noted that slices 
from the middle and back of the fish are the best ; and a 
great gastronomer has given it as his opinion that the 
flesh on the dark- coloured side of the turbot is to be 
preferred to the flesh on the white side. 

Take a portion of turbot, and trim it neatly. Lay it 
on a dish, pour half a gill of vinegar over it, add three 
or four peppercorns, and let it lie for an hour; turn 
it once or twice during the time. If possible, provide 
fish stock, made by boiling the trimmings of the fish 
in water, in which an onion, a little salt, a slice of 
turnip and another of caiTot, and a pinch of mixed herbs 
have been simmered. Strain the stock, let it boil, and 
lay the portion of turbot in it. Let it simmer gently, 
but do not allow it to boil, until done. When the flesh 
leaves the bone easily it is ready. Drain it, and serve 
it on a hot dish, with Dutch or anchovy sauce. The 
slice of turbot may be garnished with chopped parsley 
and hard-boiled egg passed through a sieve. 

Loin of Mutton Boned and Boiled. — A small piece 
of the loin of mutton, consisting of two or three chops, 
boned and freed from fat, and rolled compactly, furnishes 
an excellent small roast for an invalid. It may be 
wrapped in two or three folds of buttered paper, and 
baked in the oven, and, if well basted and carefully 
cooked, it will be tenderer and more full of gravy than 
one chop cooked separately could be. The paper should 
be removed a short time before the mutton is dished, in 
order that the meat may be coloured properly. The 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 157 

gravy for this dish should be well coloured and free 
from fat. It can be made by browning the bones of the 
mutton, with an onion cut small, and stewing them well 
in stock or water. A baked tomato is an excellent 
accompaniment to loin of mutton. 

Browned Potato. — Peel the potatoes in the usua) 
way, and half-boil them. Drain them before they 
begin to soften, and put them in the dripping-tin in the 
oven with the meat. Baste them now and again during 
the process of cooking. They will probably need to 
bake as long as the meat bakes. They will be much 
more wholesome if partially boiled beforehand, than if 
cooked wholly in the oven. 

Seakale. — Wash the seakale thoroughly, and trim 
it neatly, then tie it in a small bundle with tape, as 
twine would be likely to cut the tender stalks. Put it 
into as much fast-boiling salted water as will cover it ; 
it will take about twenty minutes. Drain well, and 
serve on toast 

Lady well Pudding. — (A light pudding easy of di- 
gestion.) Mix a tablespoonful of flour and a little grated 
nutmeg to a smooth paste with cold milk, and add a 
little sugar to make the pudding palatable, remembering 
always that for rheumatic subjects sweetness is to be 
avoided. Pour on half a pint of boiling milk, and stir 
well. When cold, add an egg beaten and half a wine- 
glassful of sherry. Pour the preparation into a buttered 
pie-dish, and bake half an hour. 



"EHEUMATIC GOUT. 



» 



This name describes, but not happily, a painful 
affection of the joints, sometimes acute, more often 
chronic, and tending to more or less deformity and 
permanent fixation. Faulty though the name is, 
it has established itself too firmly to be easily got 
rid of. This is the more to be regretted that the 
resemblance to gout is very superficial, and that the 
treatment suitable in gout is quite unsuitable in 
rheumatic gout, and may be disastrous. Neither 
can it be said that any real relationship to rheum- 
atism has been proved, so that, as it stands, the 
heading is a misnomer. 

Many regard the disease as of nervous origin, 
and depressant agencies are frequently found to 
have been at work. The dietetic treatment cannot 
be said to have taken definite form, nor is it neces- 
sary that it should crystallise. The great point to 
bear in mind is that the patient will not bear 



DIET AND COOKERY. 159 

lowering treatment of any kind, and that hence 
the regimen should be a generous one, including 
even the use of stout or porter. Fats seem to be of 
special value. 

To describe the diet briefly, we would say, the 
rheumatic diet without its restrictions — in other 
words, a full dietary — and with special mention in 
favour of fats. We would not be misunderstood in 
our use of the word "generous " : this must not be 
interpreted as carte blanche to the pastry-cook and 
confectioner, the market for whose productions is 
outside our limits. Sugar as a sweetening agent 
may be allowed in moderation, but sweets should 
not be taken. 



160 DIET AND COOKERY 



DIET TABLES FOR RHEUMATIC GOUT. 



First Day* 



Breakfast. 

Tea, Coflfee, or Cocoa, with plenty of Milk. 

Baked Fresh Herrings. 

Dry Toast, or Stale Bread with Butter. Baked Apples. 

Luncheon. 
Chop. Tomato Salad. Savoury Omelette. 

Dinner, 

Fried Sole. Braised Mutton. Jerusalem Artichokes. 

Cabioet Pudding. 



Second Day. 



Breakfast. 

Tea, Coffee, or Cocoa, with plenty of Milk. 

Buttered Eggs. Sardines. Toast. Butter. 

Stewed Prunes with or without Cream. 

Luncheon. 
Beef Stew. Cheese. 

Dinner. 

Ox-Tail Soup. Broiled Chicken, 

Potato Puff. Spinach, 

Rice with Apricots. 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 161 



RECIPES. 



First Day, 



Breakfast. 

Baked Fresh Herrings. — Fresh herrings carefully 
cooked furnish a very appetising dish for breakfast, 
and they are very nourishing and wholesome. 

Take one dozen herrings, half with soft, half with 
hard roes. Scrape and wash the fish well, cut off the 
heads, split the bodies in halves, and take out the bone. 
Rub each half with pepper, salt, and a very little mus- 
tard, and powdered allspice. Roll each half separately, 
leaving the tail outwards, and pack the rolls in a china 
jar. (A jar of the sort and size used for table salt will 
answer excellently.) Pound the soft roes, and mix half 
a pint of vinegar and a little water ; throw the liquid 
over the herrings. Put a couple of bay- leaves on the 
top of the fish, and bake in a slow oven for about an 
hour. 

When herrings can be bought fresh for the morning 
meal — and in certain towns they are often hawked round 
early in the day — they are very good fried for breakfast. 
When they are to be cooked thus, they need only to be 
opened, emptied, cleansed, have their heads cut off, l^e 
lightly peppered, salted, and floured, and laid in an 
ordinary frying-pan, in as much hot fat as will cover 



162 DIET AND COOKEEY 

them. They will be done in a few minutes, and their 
condition must be judged by their appearance. If the 
fat is properly hot before the herrings are placed in it, 
and if they are laid on a plate covered with kitchen 
paper for a minute or two before being served, in order 
that superfluous fat may drain from them, they will not 
be greasy when cooked thus. 

Dry Toast (see p. 85). — Toast is very easily digested, 
therefore it is very often given in illness. It should be 
served as soon as it is made, if possible. When this is 
not practicable, pile the slices on a dish, cover with a 
napkin, and put the dish on the^ hearth or in the oven. 

Baked Apple (see p. 89). — Serve the apple hot. In 
cases of rheumatic gout, food should be preferably served 
hot. 

Luncheon. 

Mutton Chop. — See p. 105. 

Tomato Salad, — Take a ripe red tomato, cut it in 
slices a quarter of an inch thick. Mix in a spoon two 
pinches of salt, one of pepper, a teaspoonful of vinegar, 
and the same measure of oil. Baste the slices with the 
dressing, a few minutes before serving. 

Savoury Omelette. — See p. 154. 

Dinner. 

Fried Sole. — This dish is generally approved by 
invalids, but this mode of cookery should never be 
adopted unless it is certain that the fish is quite fresh. 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 163 

If there is the slightest doubt as to its condition, lift the 
flesh from the bones, and cook the fillets. Pains should 
be taken also to make the fish quite dry before frying it ; 
" nothing will fry crisp that is wet." 

A moderate-sized sole is the best for frying. Scrape 
and cleanse the fish, and dry it thoroughly. In order to 
secure perfect dryness, it is advisable to dredge it lightly 
with flour. Beat an egg, and with it brush the sole 
all over, then cover it with finely sifted bread-crumbs, 
seasoned with pepper and salt. Have as much frying 
fat in the pan as will cover the fish ; when it boils, not 
before, lay the fish in it, and fry till it is a rich brown. 
If the fat is not hot, the fish will be greasy and limp. 
Should it not be pracUcable to provide suflicient fat to 
cover the sole, fry it first on one side, then on the other. 
Have ready a dish covered with kitchen paper, and lay 
the sole upon this for a minute to drain it. The time 
required for frying a sole will depend upon the thick- 
ness. A moderate-sized sole will take from six to ten 
minutes. 

Braised Mutton. — Take a piece of the shoulder, loin, 
or best end of the neck of mutton, weighing about two 
pounds. Trim it neatly, so that it will stand squarely 
and compactly on the dish when cooked. Put a liberal 
slice of sweet dripping into a saucepan, make it hot, and 
put the meat into it, then turn it about until it is lightly 
browned all over. While the meat is colouring, put with 
it some pepper and salt, about twenty small button 
onions (when peeling these be careful not to cut into 



164 DIET AND OOOKEBY 

them), and half a dozen young carrots or turnips cut 
into fancy shapes or into quarters. When the meat is 
brown, drain away the fat, flour the mutton, pour on 
about a pint of hot water or stock, and stir it till it boils. 
Put with it a shallot wrapped in parsley, cover closely, 
and simmer for an hour and a half. When half cooked, 
put in a dozen small onions of an even size. Before 
dishing the meat, take out the herbs, and serve very hot. 
The potatoes cooked thus will be excellent. 

Jerusalem Artichokes. — If a vegetable is desired in 
addition to those cooked with the mutton, a pleasant 
change may be obtained by using Jerusalem artichokes. 
Take as many artichokes as will be required ; three or 
four large ones will probably be sufficient. Wash, brush, 
peel, and trim them. If convenient, arrange to cook 
them in a dish that will bear the heat of the oven, and 
can be sent to table. Melt an ounce of butter or sweet 
dripping in this, put in the artichokes, sprinkle pepper 
and salt on them, and bake till soft and brown in a quick 
oven, basting them frequently. The time required for 
cooking will depend on the age ; young roots will be 
done in about half an hour. If preferred, the artichokes 
can be boiled in salt and water, instead of being baked. 
They should then be coated with white sauce. 

Cabinet Pudding. — Take a breakfast-cup or small 
basin or mould that will hold half a pint, and butter it 
inside. Fill it lightly with alternate layers of stale 
sponge biscuits and ratafias. Just before cooking the 
pudding pour on a custard made with a quarter of a 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 165 

pint of boiling milk poured upon one egg, sweetened 
with a teaspoonful of sugar, and flavoured with lemon 
and vanilla. Lay a round of buttered paper on the top 
of the pudding, set it in a saucepan with boiling water 
to come half-way up the basin ; cover closely, and steam 
very gently till set. Turn out carefully, and pour the 
sauce over. 

German Sauce and Lemon Sauce are both excellent 
for a pudding of this kind. 

German Sauce. — Put the yolks of two eggs, a wine- 
glassful of sherry, and a dessertspoonful of castor sugar 
into a double saucepan, that is, a saucepan with water 
under the vessel that contains the material to be cooked. 
Set the pan on the fire, and mill the sauce with an egg- 
whisk until it begins to thicken and rise in the pan. It 
will take about ten minutes. 

Lemon Sauce. — Boil a tablespoonful of loaf-sugar in 
a gill of water to a clear syrup, add the strained juice of 
a large lemon and half a wineglassful of sherry. 

When a superior sauce is provided for a pudding of 
this description, a satisfactory result will be obtained by 
using stale bread instead of ratafias and sponge biscuits. 



Second Day. 



Breakfast. 
Buttered Eggs. — Break two eggs into a basin and 
beat them lightly with pepper and salt, and half a gill 
of milk or cream, or half milk and half stock may be 



166 DIET AND COOKERY 

used. Melt a little piece of butter the size of a filbert 
in an enamelled saucepan, pour in the eggs, and keep 
stirring them one way over a gentle fire until they begin 
to thicken ; then lift the pan from the fire, and stir again 
until they are lightly set. If allowed to remain on the 
fire too long, the eggs will be leathery, hard, and indi- 
gestible. Turn the mass upon a slice of well-made 
toast, sprinkle chopped parsley on the top, and serve 
at once. 

Sardines. — These fish furnish a veiy acceptable relish 
for breakfast, and they are much liked. They may be 
drained from the oil in which they are preserved, and 
eaten with bread and butter, or they may be more 
daintily prepared as follows : — 

Drain the sardines, remove the skin and the tail, 
split them in halves, and remove the bone. Put the 
fillets of flesh on freshly made toast, and sprinkle grated 
Parmesan lightly on the surface. Set the toast in the 
oven till hot, and serve. 

Stewed Prunes and Cream. — Stewed prunes are very 
wholesome, and when eaten with cream they are very 
nourishing. They are never more valuable than when 
taken at breakfast-time. 

Prunes vary much in quality. Those which are dry 
and hard should be soaked for twenty-four hours before 
being stewed ; the softer, plumper sorts do not need this 
preliminary soaking, although they should be washed in 
warm water and drained. Allow a pint of cold water 
and a cupful of loaf-sugar for each pound of prunes, and 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 167 

simmer tJbe fruit very slowly and gently for a couple of 
hours or more, until quite tender and well swollen. If 
liked, an inch of lemon-rind, a couple of cloves, or the 
juice of a lemon may be added to the syrup. When the 
fruit is ready, drain it and put it in a glass dish ; then 
boil the syrup till it is thick. Half a glass of claret is 
sometimes added. Stewed prunes are improved with 
keeping for a few hours before being used. 

Luncheon. 
Beef Stew. — Take as much lean uncooked beef, that 
has been trimmed from a joint to suit convenience, as 
will fill a teacup. Free it from skin, gristle, and bones, 
and cut it into small pieces. Provide also a teaspoonf ul of 
onion, chopped finely, a moderate-sized turnip cut into 
dice, and the red part of a large carrot scraped to pulp. 
Melt a little dripping in a saucepan, and fry the meat in 
it for two or three minutes to brown it ; take it up, and 
fry also the cut^up vegetables. Put them with the meat, 
and barely cover with stock or water. Simmer very 
gently for an hour, put in three moderate-sized potatoes 
that have been cut into cubes ; simmer half an hour 
longer, and serve very hot. One or two croutons or 
pieces of bread fried in hot fat will be an improvement 
to this stew. If beef of a coarse tissue is used, it will 
need to stew longer. 

Dinner. 

Ox-Tail Soup. — Joint a good sized ox-tail, and cut it 
into inch and a half lengths. Trim away the fat, and 



168 DIET AND COOKERY 

fry the pieces in a stewpan with a little dripping for five 
minutes, or till they are lightly browned. Pour over 
them two quarts of stock or water. Bring the liquor to 
a boil, and throw in a teaspoonful of salt. Skim it care- 
fully, and put with it a small carrot, a turnip, an onion, 
with two cloves, a blade of mace, half a small teaspoonful 
of dried savoury herbs, six peppercorns, and a stick of 
celery. Stew gently for two hours and a half. Strain 
the stock, and put the pieces of ox-tail into cold water to 
set the fat, and so facilitate its removal. Melt an ounce 
and a half of butter in a small stewpan, mix a table- 
spoonful of flour smoothly with it, and add the stock 
gi'adually. Let the soup simmer by the side of the fire 
** to throw oS the grease," and skim away the fat as it 
rises. Make the meat hot in the soup. Just before 
serving add a spoonful of liquid browning, a few drops 
of lemon-juice, and a glass of port. . In cold weather this 
soup will keep good two or three days, and a portion can 
be made hot as required. It is very nourishing and 
sustaining. 

Broiled Chicken. — When a special dinner has to be 
provided for the invalid of the family, and when a 
chicken is the dish chosen, it is a good plan to divide the 
bird in halves, and cook the two portions differently on 
separate days. An excellent dish may be made by 
broiling one of these portions, according to the following 
recipe. The other half may with advantage be made 
into a fricassee, the recipe for preparing which is given 
at p. 170. 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 169 

A broiled chicken requires care. Unless the bird 
is quite young it should be partially cooked in the 
oven before being placed on the gridiron, otherwise it 
will be underdone in parts. Pick and singe the chicken, 
and divide it evenly quite through ; then cleanse it 
thoroughly ; cut oflf the head and neck, and the first 
joints of the feet, and if it is necessary to wash the bird, 
be sure to dry it perfectly afterwards with a napkin. 
This being done, put the half-chicken in good position, 
and make it as flat as possible, so that the heat of 
the fire may reach every part equally, and also that 
there may be no danger of its sprawling in the dish. A 
little while before it is to be cooked, oil it all over, 
or brush it over with warm butter; then put it on 
the gridiron over a clear fire, bones downwards, and 
keep it well basted. Turn it three or four times during 
the process of cooking, and begin to turn as soon as 
the gravy oozes out. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, and 
serve. It will take about twenty-five minutes. The 
bird will be more easily cooked in a hanging grill in 
front of the fire than it will be on a gridiron over the 
fire. This method of cooking a chicken is not easy, but 
when successfully managed it is always liked. 

When a chicken cannot conveniently be broiled over 
or before the fire, it may be baked in the oven, in 
imitation of broiling. When this is to be done, divide 
the bird, or, if liked, simply take a wing and part of the 
breast from a young chicken. Should there be any doubt 
as to the tenderness of the bird, lay the piece on a 



170 DIET AND COOKERY 

gridiron or toaster, set it over a pan of boiling water, 
cover it, and let it steam for half an hour before broiling. 
This done, lay it in a warm dripping-tin, put it in a 
moderately hot oven, and turn it two or three times, and 
baste it by rubbing it all over with butter tied in muslin 
each time it is turned. 

A piquant sauce for serving with broiled or roast 
chicken may be made by mixing together two table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter with one tablespoonful of 
vinegar, a saltspoonful of mustard, the same of white 
sugar, and a little pepper and salt. Heat to the point of 
boiling, pour over the chicken, cover closely for five 
minutes, and serve. 

Fricassee of Chicken. — Stew the portion of chicken 
until tender in stock or water. Cut it into neat joints 
and set it aside for a short time. Take a tumblerful of the 
broth in which it was stewed, and boil therein one large 
onion, or half-a-dozen small ones, half a bay-leaf, a small 
bunch of herbs, pepper and salt, until the broth is 
reduced by one half. Mix a small dessertspoonful of 
flour to a smooth paste with cream or milk; after strain- 
ing, mix the flavoured stock with it, and stir the sauce 
over the fire till thick. Put the pieces of chicken into 
the sauce, let them get hot through without boiling, 
and serve. 

Potato Puff. — Peel and boil three large potatoes. 
When soft, dry, and mealy, beat them briskly with a 
little salt and a tablespoonful of butter till white and 
creamy. Add the yolk of au Qgg well beaten and a 



FOB OOMMON AILMENTS. 171 

tablespoonful of cream or milk. About twenty minutes 
before the potato is wanted, whisk the white of the 
egg to a firm froth, mix it lightly with the mashed 
potato ; turn the preparation into a deep dish, and 
bake quickly till brown. If successfully prepared, the 
potato will be light, puffy, and palatable. 

Spinach. — See p. 131. 

Mice with Apricots. — This dish should be prepared 
the day before it is to be used. Put a dessertspoonful of 
gelatine to soak in a tablespoonful of water. Wash two 
tablespoonfuls of Carolina rice in one or two waters (this 
will get rid of the superfluous starch, and thus make the 
rice less liable to burn) ; then cook it with an inch 
of stick cinnamon in a pint of milk. Let it simmer 
gently and slowly in a saucepan by the side of the fire 
for two or three hours, and add more milk from time 
to time until a pint and a half has been used. Take out 
the cinnamon, stir in two ounces of white sugar and the 
gelatine melted, and mix well. Add last thing three- 
pennyworth of cream which has been whipped till thick. 
This cream is not indispensable, of course, but it makes 
a wonderful improvement. Take a plain tin mould with 
straight sides ; rinse it in cold water and leave it wet, 
and set a gallipot, with a weight inside to keep it down, 
in the middle. Put the rice in the space around the 
gallipot, and leave it to set. Next day remove the 
gallipot, turn the rice on a glass dish, put stewed apricots 
or other stewed fi-uit in the centre, additional fruit 
around, and pour the syrup over all. If a second three- 



172 DIET AND OOOKERY. 

pennyworth of cream is not considered extravagant, it 
may be whipped and piled upon the fruit. It is to 
be remembered that to whip cream not only makes it 
taste richer, but also increases its bulk. 

Any suitable fruit may be used to garnish rice pre- 
pared thus, although apricots are perhaps to be preferred 
above all ; and when fresh fruit is not to be had, bottled 
fruit can be used. The fruit should be gently simmered 
in a syrup made of sugar and water, and taken up before 
it is soft enough to lose shape. It should be cooked 
in a porcelain or earthenware vessel, not in a metal 
saucepan. 



EICKETS. 



This affection does not represent a vice or tendency 
of the sj^stem, but, rather, it is the outcome of a 
vicious method of bringing up. The dietetic 
problem is to substitute a healthy regimen for one 
that is unhealthy, at the same time that the ill- 
effects already produced are combated in other 
ways. 

Rickets belongs essentially to childhood — a time 
of Hfe when simplicity of diet should obtain, and 
foods require little preparation beyond the right 
degree of cooking. Elaborate diet tables are there- 
fore not required, and for this reason, as well as the 
further reason that the case of rickets should be 
under the doctor's care, and not leave his hands, 
we shall pass it over. 

It should be added that bad hygiene of all kinds, 
and all agencies tending to depress the health, may 
probably engender rickets, so that the disease needs 
attacking from this point of view also — indeed, must 
be looked at all round. 



SCUEYY. 

As in the case of rickets, we have to deal with the 
results of a dietetic error, and not with any consti- 
tutional predisposition. The organism does not 
make for scurvy or for rickets, though it may be 
compelled in either direction. Scurvy is very greatly 
a disease of the past, and it was incidental to pro- 
longed sea voyages, and circumstances of whatever 
nature which made difficult the obtaining of fresh 
food, animal and vegetable. 

The production of scurvy was an experiment in 
dietetics which at one time was made on a large 
scale. Now its occurrence belongs to the rarities ; 
but every now and then — especially in large towns 
— human beings are found ignorant of the first 
principles of feeding, and in themselves or in their 
children they may produce scurvy. Sometimes it 
is the misfortune of the dietetic possibilities or im- 
possibilities, rather than any fault of the individual. 

The cure of scurvy needs no diet tables: the 



DIET AND COOKERY. 175 

readmission of fresh food — animal and vegetable 
— to the dietary suffices so far as aliment can cure ; 
what remains over and above belongs to the 
doctor. 

To a condition met with in childhood, and pre- 
senting some of the features of both scurvy and 
rickets, and named scurvy-rickets, similar remarks 
will apply. 



SCEOFULA, CONSUMPTION, ETC. 



With these affections we return to diseases which 
are the result — in part, at any rate — of a pre- 
disposition of the tissues — of a vice of the system. 
However we may look at this question, and what- 
ever credit we may give to modern develop- 
ments of the tubercle bacillus theory, it becomes 
abundantly evident that it takes two to play 
at the game of scrofula, or tubercle — the bacillus 
on the one hand, undoubtedly, but as undoubtedly 
the tissue tendency on the other. 

These diseases are marked by the occurrence of 
yellowish nodules in certain of the tissues. The 
tendency of these nodules is towards softening, with 
breaking down of the tissues in which they are em- 
bedded. The lymphatic glands may be involved, 
and we have the so-called " kernels " of scrofula. 
Disfiguring scars often mark the site of past ulcera- 
tions caused by such. The bones and joints may 
be implicated, and bone and joint disease result. 
The lungs may be the seat of the mischief, and 



DIET AND COOKERY. 177 

pulmonary consumption ensue. Other parts of 
the body may suffer, but scrofula and consumption 
are the best and most familiar examples of this 
tuberculous affection. 

Of the two factors concerned in the production 
of tubercle, we shall with difficulty escape the one 
— the bacillus — though we may much diminish the 
chances of infection by hygienic measures ; but as 
to the other factor, we may hope, by a careful 
building up of the tissues, even after the invasion 
of the body, to enable the organism to withstand or 
overcome the poison. t 

In the front rank of measures adapted to this 
end is a suitable dietary. This should be mixed, 
and as generous as the patient can take. Again 
we must warn, that we do not mean by this highly- 
spiced and rich foods, with pastry, cake, etc. — the 
plainer the better, so long as the patient partakes 
satisfactorily ; but patients of the consumptive class 
are often extremely fastidious, and little dishes as 
tempting as possible may be called for. We would 
warn against the free use of pepper and hke con- 
diments, inasmuch as the larynx may share in the 
affection, and the act of swallowinor be the more 



178 DIET AND COOKERY 

likely to provoke a cough if the food be at all 
of an irritating character. 

Such lar3aigeal irritability will be absent in many 
cases of consumption, but when present and ex- 
cessive it will demand direct medical treatment. It 
will be found in such cases that soft foods — e.^. 
gruel, arrowroot, soft milk-puddings, thickened 
milk, jellies, etc. — are easiest swallowed. 

There are no special avoidances in the dieting 
of the scrofulous and consumptive. From each class 
we may select and get as much variety as we can, 
and, if need be, the help of wine, beer, or spirits 
may be called in to assist the appetite or to stay the 
stomach."^ There are, however, special indications 
for fats and fatty foods to the extent of their 
tolerance — butter, cream, etc. Should the diet not 
agree, we may, by the aid of a ferment — e.g. pan- 
creatine in some of its many preparations — ^help out 
the digestion. The use of the ferments is a growing 
one, though it hardly yet belongs to the kitchen. 

Of great value in the treatment of all forms of 

* Where there is laryngeal irritability, wine and beer may 
cause much pain in the act of swallowing : in such cases we 
should dilute the wine with water, and we may give it warmed 
— the beer also should be tried warmed. 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 179 

tuberculous disease is milk, but it should be given 
in la-rge quantity, and it should be added to, not 
taken in the place of, other food. Thus " one to two 
glasses of milk may be taken during and shortl}^ 
after each meal " ; and in many cases, especially of 
consumption, a glass of warmed milk, with or with- 
out a little rum or brandy, will be of great value in 
the early morning, about five or six. This early 
hour is often a period of great physical depression. 
Consumptive patients often suffer from aliment- 
ary complications — irritable stomach, diarrhoea, 
etc. — ^but the treatmenfc of these, from a dietetic 
point of view, will differ in no wise from the treat- 
ment of like conditions in non-consumptive people, 
and, moreover, these complications will mostly call 
for direct medical supervision ; we shall therefore 
pass them over here. 

If there be any tendency to feverishness, this 
mil, in the great majority of cases, tend to show 
itself towards the late afternoon or evening. In 
such cases it will be well to make the more sub- 
stantial meals in the morning and at mid-day — 
i.e. during the absence of fever. If there be any 
degree of fever, the case needs medical supei-vision. 



180 DIET AND COOKERY 



DIETARY TABLES FOR SCROFULA, CON- 
SUMPTION, ETC. 



First Uay, 



Tea, etc., with Porridge and Milk. 
Kidneys and Bacon. Savoury Eggs. Toast 
Baked Apple. 

Luncheon. 

Sausage Cakes, with Savoury Rice and Apple Sauce. 

Little Butter Puddings. 

Dinner. 
Haricot Soup. Cutlets a la Reforme. Potato Snow. 
Vegetable Marrow Saut^, 
Amber Pudding. 



Second Day, 



Breakfast, 

Tea, etc. Porridge. Mutton CoUops with Tomato. 

Cream Toast. 

Luncheon, 
Oysters and Brown Bread. Baked Princesse Pudding, 

with Cream. 

Dinner. 
Fillets of Sole, with Maitre d'Hdtel Sauce. 

Grenadines of Veal, larded. 

Potato Cakes. Asparagus. 

Chocolate Puddinar. Cuytard Sauce. 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS 181 



RECIPES. 



First Day. 

Breakfast, 
Tea.—^QQ p. 81. 

Porridge. — Oatmeal porridge is exceedingly wholesome 
and nourishing food, and people who can take it are 
almost sure to benefit by it. It is very easy of digestion, 
and constitutes most valuable food, but unfortunately 
not everyone can enjoy it. Its acceptability depends 
very much upon the way in which it is made. Yet 
there are many ways of making porridge, and many sorts 
of porridge, and the sort that suits one person does not 
suit every person. Moreover, we generally find that 
people who have been accustomed to one way of making 
it have a contempt for every other method, and they are 
almost inclined to extend the scorn to the individuals 
who adopt it. Four recipes for making porridge are 
here given, and all have been highly approved by experts. 
For invalid use, however, the fourth recipe is specially 
recommended here, because the long boiling renders the 
meal exceedingly digestible. Moreover, porridge pre- 
pared by recipe No. 4 is very delicate, and when taken 
A^ith cream it is quite a dainty. It must be understood 
that there are three kinds of oattiieal — "coarse," 
••medium," and "fine." Individual taste must deter- 
mine which of the three varieties shall be preferred. 



182 DIET AND COOKERY 

]^o. 1. — Put as much water as is likely to be wanted 
in a saucepan with salt. When it boils, sprinkle medium 
oatmeal into it with the left hand, and at the same time 
beat it with the right hand until the required thickness 
is obtained. (As tastes differ very much about the 
degree of consistency desirable, it is not possible to say 
how much oatmeal should be used.) When this point 
is reached, set the pan on the hottest part of the fire, and 
boil quickly for about ten minutes. 

No. 2. — Put a quarter of a pound of fine oatmeal 
with a little salt into a bowl, and add cold water 
gradually to make a smooth paste. Turn this into a 
saucepan containing a pint of boiling water ; stir to the 
boil, and continue boiling for about half an hour, stirring 
frequently to prevent the formation of lumps. 

]^o. 3. — Put salted water into a saucepan, and when 
the water boils quickly, stir in gradually coarse oatmeal 
till the required thickness is obtained. If any lumps 
form during the process, draw them to the side of the 
pan and crush them out. Draw the pan back a little, 
put on the lid, and let the contents simmer gently till 
wanted. The longer the better. An hour's simmering 
is none too long, but the porridge must be stirred 
frequently during this period to keep it from burning to 
the pan ; and each time after being stii-red the lid must 
be put on the pan again. When porridge can be long 
boiled, less oatmeal is requu-ed, because the simmering 
swells the oatmeal, and makes it go twice as far. 

1;q 4. — Login to Uiiike the povriJge early in the 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 183 

morning of the day before it is wanted. A porridge- 
pan or double saucepan is best for making porridge 
thus. It prevents any danger of burning. Put six 
tablespoonfuls of coarse oatmeal into the double pan 
with a pinch of salt, and let it soak for some hours 
till the kitchen range is at liberty. Fill the pan with 
boiling water, stirring it well, and keep the water boiling 
in the outer pan till bedtime, or for about four hours, 
stirring the meal occasionally. Last thing before retiring 
for the night, stir it well, cover it, and leave it. In the 
morning put it on the fire, and let it get hot through. 
Porridge cooked thus is not at all troublesome to make ; 
it is simply allowed to cook itself. 

Kidneys and Bacon. — Allow a rasher of bacon for 
each kidney. Skin and core the kidney, and cut it into 
rather thin slices the round way. Mix on a plate a 
tablespoonful of flour, a saltspoonful of salt, and half a 
saltspoonful of pepper, and dip each slice in the mixture. 
Melt a little bacon fat or butter in the frying-pan, and 
fry the bacon very gently over a slow fire, turning it 
repeatedly. When done, take up the bacon, put it on a 
hot dish, and fry the slices of kidney in the same fat. 
In one minute turn them j in about four minutes they 
will be done enough, and may be put on the dish with 
the bacon. They should be slightly underdone ; and 
unless slowly and gently cooked, will be unwholesome. 
Pour off nearly all the fat, mix a little flour with the 
remainder to make a smooth paste, add gradually as 
much stock or water aa wiiJ make a thick sauce, stir 



184 DIET AND COOKERY 

this over the fire till it boils, and strain it over the 
kidneys. 

A dessertspoonful of ketchup can be added to the 
fiance, if approved. 

Savoury Eygs. — Provide a small tin mould, such as a 
dariole-mould or deep patty-pan, for each egg. Butter 
the tin well inside, and cover the bottom with a savoury 
mixture made of a slice of cold boiled ham or bacon (fat 
and lean together), a little chopped parsley, pepper, and 
salt. It may be calculated that two ounces of bacon and 
a teaspoonful of parsley will be sufficient for three eggs. 
Break one egg carefully into each tin, place the tins side 
by side in a saucepan of fast-boiling salted water, and 
poach them gently until the white is set. If boiled 
quickly, tlie eggs will be hard, and the white full of holes ; 
whereas, it should be soft and smooth. Have ready in 
a hot dish small circles of toasted bread, one for each 
egg. Turn the eggs carefully on these, and serve. If 
liked, a small piece of ham can be substituted for the 
toast. 

Toast— ^QQ p. 85. 

Baked Apple. — See p. 89. 

Luncheon. 
Sausage Cakes. — Sausages have a bad name, because 
they can be easily — and as bought, frequently are — mixed 
with inferior material. Yet they are generally liked, 
especially by invalids, because they can be eaten with 
little trouble, and are convenient, and easy of digestion. 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 185 

Moreover, when the skins are dispensed with, and when 
there is a mincing machine in the house, they can be 
made at home with the greatest facility, as the skins are 
generally considered specially objectionable by fastidious 
eaters, and as mincing machines are now largely used. 
Consequently, sausage-cakes ought to be very popular. 
They can be made of any good trimmings of meat, and 
are usually much liked when a mixture of meats enters 
into their composition. It is possible to make them from 
any high-class fragments of trimmings of joints that are 
available. 

Take as much meat as is likely to be needed, remove 
the gristle, skin and sinew, and mince it till it is tolerably 
fine with half its weight of fat and a small proportion 
of bread-crumbs. Season it well with pepper and salt. 
Make it into flat, round cakes, about half an inch thick; 
flour these, and fry them for about ten minutes in a little 
butter or bacon fat. Serve very hot. 

Savoury rice is often liked with meat prepared thus, 
and if the cakes are made wholly or partially of pork, a 
little apple sauce is a relishing accompaniment. 

Savoury Rice. — Wash a heaped tablespoonful of rice, 
and stew it gently with a cupful of beef or chicken broth, 
an onion, and some seasoning. When soft, mix with it 
a cupful of milk and an egg ; put it in a small greased 
pie-dish, and bake in a gentle oven till brown. 

Apple Sauce. — Peel, core, and quarter one or two 
good baking apples, put them in a basin, cover closely, 
and set the vessel in a saucepan surrounded with boiling 



186 DIET AND COOKERY 

water. Let the fruit steam till it falls ; mix a little 
sugar and a tiny piece of butter with it, and serve The 
time required for cooking the apples will vary with the 
variety. If time is an object, they may be baked or 
boiled instead of being steamed, as they will be more 
quickly done. To steam them, however, is an excellent 
way of preparing them. 

Little Batter Puddings. — Put two tablespoonfuls of 
flour and a pinch of salt into a basin, and mix it very 
smoothly with cold milk to a smooth paste, adding more 
milk to make up half a pint, and the beaten yolk of an 
egg. A few minutes before the puddings are to be 
baked, whisk the white of the egg till firm, and turn 
it into the batter, endeavoui'ing not to break the air- 
bubbles while doing so. Butter two or three large 
patty-pans, half fill with the batter, and bake in a quick 
oven. Turn the puddings out, lay a spoonful of jam in 
the centre of each, and serve hot. This batter will be 
much lighter if it is mixed two or three hours before 
it is wanted. 

Dinner. 

Haricot Soup. — This soup is particularly nourishing 
and wholesome. Soak two tablespoonfuls of white oi 
red haricots in water to cover them overnight. (If the 
preliminary process has been forgotten, it may be omit- 
ted, but the haricots will need to boil so much longer.) 
Next day put the beans into a saucepan with a pint of 
stock, a slice of onion, a little knob of butter, pepper, 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 187 

and salt, and let them cook gently till quite soft. Rub 
them with the liquor through a hair sieve ; make the 
soup hot, and mix with it when boiling a quarter of a 
pint of boiling cream, or milk if cream is not allowed. 
Serve at once with fried croutons. 

Crodtons for Soup, — Cut stale bread into quarter- 
inch dice. Place these on a greased dripping-tin, and 
bake till crisp and brown. Set them on kitchen paper 
to free them from superfluous fat, and serve. Bread 
thus prepared is, for soup, much superior to toasted 
bread cut into dice. 

Cutlets with Reforme Sauce. — ^This dish is a simple, 
modified, and easily prepared presentation of the cele- 
brated and somewhat elaborate dish, Cutlets k la 
Reforme. It is, however, appetising and likely to be 
acceptable to an invalid. 

Mutton Cutlets are generally taken from the neck of 
mutton. When bought ready trimmed of the butcher, 
they are rather expensive ; but when prepared at home 
they are profitable, because the trimmings taken off raw 
can be utilised to the last scrap, and thus there need be 
no waste with them. To prepare the cutlets at home we 
need only to procure the best end of a neck of mutton, 
to chop off the thick part of the chine bone, to saw off 
about three inches of the rib bones, to separate into cut- 
lets by cutting slantwise to the left, to detach all skinny 
parts, little pieces of bone, and rough edges there may 
be, and to make the ends as neatly rounded as we can. 
If we intend to put a frill on the bone, we scrape away about 



188 DIET ANV COOKERY 

an inch of the meat from the end of the bone, and leave the 
bone bare ; but our aim should be to make the cutlet as 
smooth, flat, even, and neat as possible. So far as size 
is concerned, it is well to remember that an ideal cutlet 
is three- eighths of an inch thick, three inches long, two 
inches broad in the middle, neatly rounded at the chine 
end, with a bare bone protruding beyond the meat. A 
neck of mutton is a valuable joint to have in a house 
where there is an invalid, because, so long as it is sweet, 
it improves with hanging in a cool, airy situation, and if 
cutlets are taken from it as they are wanted, they can 
be served with diflferent sauces, and thus variety of fare 
is easily secured. It is important to remember, however, 
when a neck of mutton is to be used in this way, that 
the cutlets should not be separated until they are wanted. 
If they are, the meat will get dry. 

There are two or three ways of cooking mutton cut- 
lets for invalids. Either they may be plainly broiled, 
or they may be egged, breaded, and broiled, or they may 
be saute (that is, fried in a little fat), or fried in a sauce- 
pan with a good depth of fat ; or they may be cooked in 
the oven, or toasted before the fire in a Dutch oven. 
When there is a frying-saucepan of a good depth 
available, perhaps the method to be preferred is that of 
frying in a good depth of fat. Nor need it be supposed 
that a cutlet thus cooked will necessarily be greasy. If 
dropped into very hot fat — fat that is so hot that it is 
still, and a blue fume rises from it — they will at once 
become encased in a coatincj, which will serve to keep in 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 189 

the juices, and prevent the grease from penetrating to 
the interior. The cutlet will be cooked through in a 
minute or two ; as soon as it is brown it will be done. 
It may then be laid on kitchen paper, and thus any 
superabundant grease which may cling to the outer surface 
will be absorbed. The fat used in this operation can be 
used again and again, if it is strained after being used 
once or twice, and clarified or washed in boiling water 
occasionally. It is, perhaps, superfluous to add that after 
clarification it must first be allowed to go cold, then have 
the impurities which will settle in a cake at the bottom 
scraped away. Afterwards it should be gently melted 
down again in the oven, for the purpose of expelling any 
watery particles that may still cling to it. 

Cutlets that are to be fried in deep fat may either be 
egged and breaded or simply rubbed over with flour to 
secure dryness. They are better to be egged and breaded 
an hour or two before they are fried. The crumbs must 
be stale, fine, and even. 

Reforme Sauce. — For one or two chops take a small 
teacupful of ordinary thick brown sauce. Put into it 
two tablespoonfuls of port, a tablespoonful of red currant 
jelly, half a teaspoonful of anchovy, a few drops of tar- 
ragon vinegar, and, if it is to be had, a dessertspoonful of 
tomato. Make this hot over the fire, and serve poured 
over the cutlet. 

Broion Sauce. — If there is no brown sauce in the 
house, a small quantity may be made as follows. Melt 
a piece of glaze the size of a walnut in half a pint of 



190 DIET AND COOKE BT 

water, and for the sake of the flavour boil in it a slice 
of onion and half a carrot cut small, a pinch of mixed 
herbs, and a tiny knob of sugar. When agreeably 
flavoured, strain the liquid ; thicken it with a table- 
spoonful of flour mixed till smooth with cold water, 
boil it, and add a few drops of browning if necessary. 

Or simmer any trimmings or bones there may be in 
water till half a pint of good stock is obtained ; add glaze 
or Liebig's Extract, and proceed £is above. It is always 
desirable to use stock rather than water when making 
sauces for invalids, who are in need of nourishing food. 

Potato Snow. — Boil two or three potatoes in the 
usual way (see p. 148). When dry and floury, rub 
them quickly through a wire sieve, or a potato-strainer, 
so that they shall fall in flakes. Sprinkle chopped 
parsley on the top, and serve at once without disturb- 
ing them. 

Vegetable Marrow SautS. — As commonly served, 
vegetable marrow is very much of a fraud. It comes to 
table immersed in water, and more water runs from it 
as it stands ; then the water becomes cold, and mixes 
with the sauce, and the result is not agreeable. The 
fact is that vegetable marrow is composed largely of 
water, and special care is needed to make it dry. The 
following method will probably give satisfaction. Choose 
a moderate-sized marrow, pierce it in three or four places 
with a skewer or a knitting-needle, and an hour or two 
before it is wanted put it into fast-boiling salted water, 
and boil it whole with the skin on. When soft, take it 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 191 

up, skin it, remove the seeds, cut it into sections, and 
leave it to drain for a while. A few minutes before 
it is wanted, melt a knob of butter, or sweet dripping, in 
a stewpan, put in the slices of marrow, and shake over 
the fire till hot through and crisp. Put the pieces of 
marrow on a slice of toast, pour melted butter over, and 
serve hot. 

Amher Pudding. — Peel, core, and quarter two large 
apples, and put them in a stewpan with an ounce of 
butter, an ounce of sugar, an inch of lemon-rind, and 
a spoonful of lemon-juice, and let them stew till soft. 
Rub them through a sieve, and mix with them the well- 
beaten yolk of an e^g. Butter and sugar a small pie- 
dish rather thickly, and sprinkle bread-crumbs on the 
butter. Pour in the apple, and bake in a moderate 
oven for about a quarter of an hour. Whisk the white 
of the egg till firm, pile it on the pudding, sprinkle 
castor sugar on the top, and return to the oven for a few 
minutes till the icing is set. Serve at once. This 
pudding is generally liked with cream. 



Second JDay, 



Breakfast, 
Mutton CoUops with Tomatoes. — When there is a 
shoulder of mutton uncooked in the larder, an acceptable 
breakfast for an invalid may be obtained by taking one 
or two slices from the lean meat which lies underneath 
the shoulder, and which is very sweet and delicate. Cut 



192 VIET AND COOKERY 

the meat thin, pepper and salt it, and lay it in a frying- 
pan with a little butter melted. Oook it slowly, and 
turn it again and again till done enough. If gently 
cooked, it will be tasty and good ; but if quickly cooked, 
it will be hard. A couple of ripe tomatoes, which have 
been baked in a pie-dish till soft, will be an excellent 
accompaniment to the mutton. 

Cream Toast. — Cut three slices of stale light bread, 
and toast them a delicate brown. Butter well while 
hot; salt the toast liberally, and place the slices one 
upon another in an earthenware or silver dish that will 
stand the heat of the oven, and can be sent to table. 
Pour on boiling milk to cover the toast entirely, put the 
lid on the dish, and leave it in the oven for five minutes, 
by which time the toast will probably have absorbed 
the milk. Lift the slices carefully with a knife, and put 
a tablespoonful of thick cream on each, cover the dish 
affain and return to the oven for ten minutes. Serve 
at once. The toast should be tasty, light, and very 
digestible and nourishing. 

Luncheon. 

Oysters and Brown Bread. — See p. 94. 

Baked Princesse Budding. — Soak two ounces of fine 
bread-crumbs in two tablespoonfuls of sherry and an 
equal measure of cream. When the liquid is absorbed, 
add a beaten egg. Put the mixture into a dish and 
bake. Serve with cream and jam. If the pudding 
made from this recipe is cousidered over-rich or too 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS, 193 

extravagant, the following formula may be substituted. 
Boil a gill of milk with a thin piece of lemon- rind, 
and, when well flavoured, pour it scalding hot upon two 
ounces of stale bread-crumbs. Add an ounce of butter, 
an ounce of sugar, and the well-beaten yolk of an 
egg. Put a tablespoonful of jam at the bottom of a 
small pie-dish, pour the pudding mixture over it, and 
bake in a quick oven till the pudding is set and lightly 
browned. Whisk the white of the egg to a stiff froth, 
pile it on the pudding in broken lumps, sprinkle a little 
moist sugar on it, and return it to the oven to acquire 
colour and firmness. If preferred, threepennyworth of 
whipped cream may be used to garnish the pudding 
instead of the white of egg: 

Dinner. 

Rolled Fillets of Sole d, la Mattre d' Hotel. — Fillet a 
pair of soles (see p. 86), and stew the bones, skin, 
etc., in half a pint of water, to make fish stock. Grease 
a baking-tin with butter. Roll each fillet with the 
shiny skin inside, and fasten the ends with a small 
skewer. Arrange them on the tin, sprinkle over them a 
little salt and pepper and a few drops of lemon-juice 
Butter a piece of kitchen paper, and lay it on the rolls to 
keep them from burning. Put them in the oven for six 
or seven minutes. Drain the rolls on paper, arrange 
them on a dish, and pour the sauce over. If the fish 
were not drained the sauce would not coat it properly. 



194 VIET AND COOKERY 

Maitre <V Hotel Sauce. — Melt an ounce of butter in 
a stewpan, and mix three-quarters of an ounce of flour 
smoothly with it. Strain the fish stock, pour it on 
the panade, and stir the sauce till it boils and thickens. 
Add a tablespoonful of cream, a few drops of lemon- 
juice, pepper and salt. Pick, wash, and chop small the 
leaves of a sprig of parsley, and add it to the sauce 
the last thing. If there is no cream, boil the fish-bones 
in milk instead of water. Lemon-juice will serve to 
whiten the sauce. 

Grenadines of Veal. — Take one pound of veal from 
the best end of the fillet, or from the best end of 
the neck. If the last-named joint is chosen, the meat 
can be cut from the bones, and afterwards divided into 
cutlets. The knuckle end of the leg will not be suitable 
for the dish ; it will be too sine\^y. Remove the skin 
from the veal, and divide it into rounds of an even size, 
about four inches across and a third of an inch thick. 
Dip a cutlet bat or broad-bladed knife into cold water, 
and flatten the cutlets, and lard them somewhat thickly 
on one side with strips of fat bacon an eighth of an 
inch wide and an inch and a quarter long. Clean and 
cut into small pieces the following vegetables : a small 
carrot, a turnip, an onion, a stick of celery, a sprig 
of parsley, thyme and marjoram, and put them at 
the bottom of a stewpan, with a teaspoonful of whole 
pepper and half a teaspoonful of salt. Lay the cutlets 
on the top, larded side upwards, being careful that they 
lie singly, and pour in sufficient stock to reach them, but 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 195 

not to cover them. Cover the meat with a round of 
buttered kitchen paper cut to fit the saucepan ; then put 
the lid on the pan, and cook slowly for three-quarters of 
an hour. Every now and again the paper must be lifted, 
and the grenadines must be basted with the stock. At 
the end of the time remove the lid of the pan and 
the paper, and set the stewpan in the oven to brown the 
cutlets. Strain the stock, and boil it quickly till thick 
and strong. Arrange the grenadines in a circle, pour 
the sauce over them, garnish with rolls of bacon, and 
serve. The grenadines will look more attractive if they 
are dished on a bed of mashed potatoes, and if dressed 
vegetables (such as spinach or green peas, or a macedoine 
or mixture of vegetables) are in the centre. If potatoes 
are served thus, the potato cakes will scarcely be 
required also. 

Potato Cakes. — Boil some potatoes, and mash them 
in the usual way with butter and milk. When smooth 
and rather moist, form them into balls by shaking them 
in a cup which has been dredged lightly with flour, turn 
them upon a greased baking-tin, and flatten them. 
Brush them over with milk, sprinkle bread-raspings on 
them, and put them in the oven till hot and lightly 
browned. Take up carefully with a slice, and serve hot. 

Asparagus. — See p. 97. 

Chocolate Pudding. — Boil four ounces of chocolate 
in three tablespoonf uls of milk till quite smooth, and stir 
in while hot an ounce of butter and a dessei-tspoonful of 
sugar. Cool, then add the yolks of two eggs. Beat 



196 DIET AND COOKERY. 

the whites to a firm froth, and fold them in gently 
at the last moment. Whilst doing this try not to break 
the air-bubbles. Pour the preparation into a small 
greased pudding-mould, sprinkle an ounce of pounded 
rusks to cover it, lay a round of buttered paper on 
the top, and steam for about half an hour, or a little 
more, till firm in the centre. Turn out carefully, and 
serve with custard sauce poured over the pudding. 

Custard Sauce. — Break an eg^ into a bowl, and beat 
it till frothy. Pour over it half a pint of boiling milk ; 
turn it into a jug placed in a saucepan of boiling water, 
and stir over the fire till the custard coats the spoon. 
Sweeten the sauce, and flavour it with two or thre^ 
drops of vanilla. 



ANJEMIA. 



The name signifies lack or poverty of blood ; but 
whilst a variety of causes may bring the condition 
about — e.g. loss of blood, exposure to unhealthy 
conditions of Hfe, improper feeding, etc. — it is not 
necessary that there should be any inherent 
tendency in the organism towards a faulty blood 
formation. Cases where this tendency is absent 
recover for the most part quickly when they are 
placed in favourable circumstances. On the other 
hand, certain cases of anaemia express an inherent 
defect in the powers of assimilation and of blood- 
making, and they tend to develop under conditions 
not in themselves unfavourable. 

These cases— sometimes called essential anaemias 
— may be very obstinate, and may demand special 
methods of treatment, both dietetic and medicinal. 
In the nature of their treatment the dietetic means 
adopted will be very similar to that employed in 



198 DIET AND COOKERY 

those cases whicli own a sufficient cause, and may 
therefore be styled secondary. 

Most cases of primary anaemia are innocent 
enough, however troublesome ; but certain cases 
show a progressive character, from bad to worse, 
and are so fatal in their tendency that they are 
named "pernicious." This minority of cases are 
probably fundamentally different from the great 
majority, and we shall relegate them absolutely 
to the medical man's care. The following remarks 
will not apply to them. 

The cause of anaemia appears to lie imme- 
diately in a deficiency of iron in the blood, and 
this deficiency itself seems to depend upon a 
faulty assimilation of the nutritive principles sup- 
phed to the body. These nutritive principles con- 
tain iron, and the deficiency of this element in 
the blood may be in spite of an abundance of iron 
in the food : the organism, so far as iron is con- 
cerned, starving in the midst of plenty. Very 
frequently digestive disorders coexist, and these 
may in part explain the faulty assimilation. The 
digestive disturbances may require special dietetic 
and drug treatment, but independently of such local 



FOE COMMON AILMENTS. 199 

treatment, which is more or less temporary, and 
independently of general treatment by hygienic 
measures— by rest in bed, if necessary, etc.— we 
may note the following points as to diet : — 

(1) That the regimen should be as full as the 
digestive powers can manage, due regard being paid 
to the digestibility of the dishes. 

(2) That variety is desii-able, but that we 
should tend to accentuate the administration of 
albuminous foods, and should also seek to give 
fats, especially if there be wasting as well as 
anaemia. 

(3) That the dishes should be tasty and 
attractive, without being rich or highly spiced. 
The free use of salt and the moderate use of 
condiments and flavouring agents seem useful 
More incentives are required by an ahmentary 
tract lacking in tone than by a healthy tract 

(4) The use of alcohol in moderation, in the 
form of wines (not beers, because of the dyspeptic 
tendencies), may be expedient. Stimulants taken 
thus will belong to the class of incentives, and they 
must be taken either with food or immediately 
before it. 



« 



200 DIET AND COOKERY 

Cases needing complete rest in bed and frequent 
administration of food in excessive quantities will 
not be considered. 

It will be seen from the above that, provided 
we keep to the more digestible forms of butcher's 
meat, birds, fish, and farinaceous foods, and are 
careful that all flour preparations are thoroughly 
cooked by boiling or baking (which practically 
means the exclusion of cakes and pastry of all 
kinds), and that vegetables of all kinds are thor- 
oughly cooked, we do not need to be much more 
explicit. The limits of administration are the 
limits of a digestion lacking in tone. (Consult later 
the section on Dyspepsia.) Beside the ordinary 
meals composed as above, the addition of milk to 
the dietary — say, a tumbler after each meal — may 
be tried. 

As to suitable forms of alcohol, we would re- 
commend a good claret or Burgundy, or a small 
quantity of whisky, with water. 

In most cases a course of medicinal treatment 
will be necessary, and artificial aids to digestion 
may also be required. 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 201 



DIETARY TABLES FOR ANiEMIA. 



First Day. 



Breakfast, 

Tea, Coffee, or Cocoa, with plenty of Milk. 
Buttered Eggs. Toast. Tomato Salad. 

Luncheon. 

Mutton Stew, with Vegetables. Creamed Rice, boiled. 
Stewed Rhubarb. Milk. 

Dinner. 

Tomato and Turnip Soup. Rump Steak. 

Fried Potatoes. Cauliflow^er. 

Blancmange, with Cream. 



Second Day. 



Breakfast. 

Tea, Coffee, or Cocoa. Chicken Livers and Bacon ; 

or Toasted Bacon, and a Soft-Boiled Egg. 

Toast and Butter. Stewed Prunes, with Milk. 

Luncheon. 
Tripe k la Coutance. Creamed Rice, Baked. 

Dinner. 

Boiled Halibut. Parsley Sauce. Plain Mutton. 
Baked Potatoes. Apple Charlotte. 



202 DIET AND COOKERY 



RECIPES. 



First Day. 



Brea kfast, 

Tea.—^e^ p. 81. Coffee.—See p. 89. Cocoa— See 
p. 124. Buttered Eggs. — See p. 165. Toast. — See p. 162. 
Tomato Salad. — See p. 162. 

Luncheon. 

Mutton Stew with Vegetables. — A tasty stew for 
luncheon may be made of the rib part of neck of 
mutton that is usually sawn oflf when cutlets are re- 
quired for family use. Pepper and salt the meat, and 
put it into a stewpan which has a close-fitting lid. 
Butter the pan inside, and place thinly sliced Spanish 
onions under and over the meat. Put the lid on the 
pan, and stew softly by the side of the fire for an hour 
or more, shaking the pan occasionally to be sure that the 
meat is not sticking to the bottom. If gently cooked, 
the onion will yield enough moisture to make gravy. 
Take up the meat, draw out the bones, and divide the 
flesh into neat shapes. Take up the onions also, put 
half a tumbler of cold stock to the gravy, and remove 
the fat ; thicken it with a little flour, put into it the 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 203 

meat, a potato cut into balls or cubes, and the onions. 
Simmer very gently for twenty minutes longer, till the 
potatoes are done enough, and serve. 

Boihd Creamed Rice. — Wash two tablespoonfuls of 
rice in two or three waters. This preliminary operation 
will free it from the loose flour, and make it less likely 
to bum. Drain it and cook it in a porridge-pan or 
double boiler with three-quarters of a pint of milk 
(adding another spoonful or two of milk if necessary), 
until the grains are well swollen and quite soft. The 
rice should cook slowly, and should take about three 
hours. When ready, press it through a coarse sieve. 
Return it to the saucepan, and put it again on the fire. 
Have ready two lightly beaten eggs. When the rice 
boils, add the eggs gradually, stirring all the time, also a 
little sugar and a pinch of salt ; continue stirring until 
the Qgg is lightly set and thickens. Pour the rice into a 
dish, and serve. 

Stewed Rhuharh. — If young rhubarb can be procured, 
it need not be skinned. Wash the stalks well, and cut 
them into three-inch lengths. For a pound of fruit make 
a syrup by boiling six ounces of loaf -sugar with a quarter 
of a pint of water till clear. Put in the rhubarb, 
and stew very gently until it is soft without having 
fallen. As the pieces become soft, lift them one by one 
carefully into a glass dish, and when all are done, let the 
S3rrup cool. Add two or three drops of cochineal, and 
pour the syrup over the fruit. Forced rhubarb looks 
very attractive when cooked thus. 



204 DIET AND COOKERY 



Dinner, 



Tomato and Turnip Soup. — Cut up a pound of 
turnips, one onion, and three tomatoes, and boil tliem 
gently in about a quart of stock. Add either a slice of 
crumb of bread or two potatoes. When the turnips are 
tender, rub the mass through a fine sieve ; add pepper 
and salt, make hot, and serve. This soup should be as; 
thick as double cream. If thicker add a little more stock. 

Rump Steak. — Procure a slice of steak about an inch 
and a half thick, and of even thickness throughout. In 
order to broil well, it is necessary to have a clear, bright 
fire ; and whenever broiling has to be done, judgment 
has to be exercised concerning the condition of the fire, 
and usually it has to be looked after a little time before 
it is wanted. In frosty weather a steak should be kept 
in a warm kitchen for a couple of hours before it is 
broiled. Make a gridiron that has been kept specially 
for meat hot over the fire, rub the bars first with a 
piece of clean paper or rag, and afterwards with mutton 
fat, and again make it hot. Season the steak with 
pepper and salt, lay it on the gridiron, put it as near the 
fire as possible, and with the steak-tongs turn it every 
minute. When the outside is done, lift it a little farther 
from the fire for a minute or two, but continue to turn 
it frequently. It is scarcely possible to say how long a 
rump-steak will take to broil, because the time will vary 
with the heat of the coal, the condition and thickness of 
the steak, and the weather. Under favourable conditions 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 205 

a steak of the kind now under consideration will be 
done enough in from eight to twelve minutes. When it is 
black on the outside, and when it feels firm, not hard, to 
the touch if pressed with the side of a fork, it is prob- 
ably done. It ought to be red and full of gravy in the 
middle, and plump in appearance, and dark brown, 
almost black, on the outside. If liked, a pat of fresh 
butter may be put under it, and another upon it ; while 
the juice of half a lemon, and a tablespoonf ul of Harvey's 
or Worcester Sauce may be put with it. The last-named 
ingredients should, however, be heated separately in a 
cup in the oven before being used. Or, if preferred, a 
shallot finely shred may be put under the steak^ or finely 
chopped parsley ; drops of lemon-juice may be sprinkled 
over it, little pieces of butter may be laid here and 
there on it, and it may be put in the oven long enough 
to melt the butter ; or it may be garnished with sliced 
lemon and parsley, or watercress. If daintily garnished, 
a broiled steak may be made to look very attractive. 
Fried potatoes are particularly suitable for serving 
with it. 

Fried Potatoes. — Kidney potatoes should be chosen 
for this mode of cooking. For frying, potatoes may 
either be cut into round slices about the thickness of a 
penny-piece (in which case they would be called 
"chips"), into square plugs about the thickness of a 
finger, and two inches long ; into ribands (in which case 
the tuber must be pared round and round as one would 
pare an apple, being careful to break the ribands as little 



206 DIET AND COOKERY 

as possible) ; into wedges about the shape and size of a 
quarter of an orange; or they may be cut thin and 
puffed out like small balloons, when they will be Potato 
Souffl^es. The variations named will depend chiefly 
upon the mode of cutting them. The frying should be 
done in a deep saucepan with a good depth of fat. Some 
people have an idea that if potatoes are cooked in fat 
they will be greasy. There is no necessity for this. It 
the fat is at the right temperature, they will be crisp, 
brown, and dry. When fried potatoes are gi-easy, the 
reason usually is that the fat in which they were fried 
was not hot enough. 

Clarified dripping is the best fat that can be used for 
frying, and the saucepan should be about one-third full. 
Potatoes contain so much water that hot fat rises and 
splashes when they are introduced into it ; and therefore 
it is not safe to have the pan overfull. If a frying-basket 
is available, the operation of frying will be much easier. 
If it is not, the potatoes must be put intx) the fat a few 
at a time, and taken up with a slice when brown. Even 
when a basket is used, a single layer only of sliced pota- 
toes should be fried at one time. 

After being cut to the required shape for frying, the 
potatoes should be laid in cold water for a while. This 
will free them from the potato-flour, which is liable to 
spoil the frying. They must, however, be thoroughly 
dried afterwards, by being laid between the folds of a 
cloth, or they will not become properly crisp When 
the fat is hot — so hot that it is still, and a blue fume 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 207 

rises from it — the potatoes may be lowered into it. 
Thej should be shaken now and again, and when lightly 
browned they are done, and can be put on paper and set 
before the fire for a minute to ensure perfect dryness. 
Before being served a little salt should be sprinkled over 
them. 

Potato Plugs and Potato Souffl^es must be finished 

differently from other shapes. They must be fried 

twice. For the first frying the fat must not be quite 

as hot as usual, and in this they must be fried until 

they are cooked without being brown ; they should then 

be lifted out until the fat is made very hot, so hot that 

it would register 400°. (For ordinary frying, it will be 

understood, fat should rise to 345° Fahrenheit, the 

homely sign of its having reached this temperature 

being that it has ceased bubbling, and a blue fume rises 

from it. When it reaches 400° the " fume " will become 

more distinct.) When plunged into the fat a second 

time the slices will inflate, and the plugs will become 

crisp and brown. 

Cauliflower. — See p. 153. 

Blancmange with Cream. — Put about three-quarters 
of an ounce of gelatine to soak in cold water to cover it 
The quantity of gelatine required will vary with the 
season. In hot weather an ounce of gelatine will be 
needed for a pint of liquid; in cold weather half an 
ounce will be sufficient. When it is neither very hot 
nor very cold, three-quarters of an ounce will probably 
be required for the quantities given here. On this point, 



208 DIET AND COOKE BY 

however, it is necessary to exercise discretion, because 
the excellence of blancmange depends upon its being 
stiff enough to turn out without breaking, and at the 
same time soft enough to melt in the mouth, without 
needing to be bitten by the teeth. 

Whilst the gelatine is soaking, take half an ounce of 
sweet almonds, with three or four bitter ones. Blanch 
them, and pound them in a mortar to a paste, and whilst 
pounding keep sprinkling cold water over them to keep 
them from oiling. Boil the soaked gelatine with a pint 
of milk, and add a strip of lemon-rind, and an inch of 
stick cinnamon ; if liked, these flavourings can be used 
instead of the almonds, but the true old-fashioned blanc- 
mange is always flavoured with almonds. Sweeten the 
milk, and lay the almond paste in it ; let it stand till it 
is pleasantly and rather strongly flavoured therewith. 
Strain the milk through muslin or a thin napkin, stir 
about a gill of cream to it, and mould it when it is 
completely cold and beginning to thicken. Sometimes 
blancmange is made with milk only, and cream is served 
with it. 

If preferred, blancmange may be made from cow- 
heel instead of from gelatine, as follows : — Procure a 
dressed cow-heel, and cut it up. Put the pieces into 
an earthenware jar, pour a quart of milk over them, 
cover closely, and stew in a gentle oven for a little more 
than three hours. Blanch and pound half an ounce of 
sweet almonds and three or four bitter ones, and put the 
paste in the milk to extract the flavour. Sweeten 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 209 

pleasantly, strain, and mould when the blancmange is 
completely cold and beginning to thicken. Serve with 
cream. 

The meat of the cow-heel can be warmed with onion 
sauce, and served separately. 



Second Day. 



Breakfast. 
^ea.— See p. 81. Co/ee.— See p. 89. Cocoa.— See p. 124. 

Chicken Livers and Bacon. — When fresh chickens' 
giblets can be obtained (and they are sometimes to be 
bought, while sometimes they are available in the 
ordinary course of things) a tasty dish for an invalid 
may be made from the livers. Cleanse them carefully, 
washiner them in two or three waters. Cut them into 
slices, the size of half-a-crown and about a quarter of an 
inch thick, and take an equal number of pieces of fat 
bacon. String them on short skewers, alternating the 
pieces of liver and the pieces of bacon, dip them in melted 
bacon fat or dissolved butter, wrap the skewers in 
buttered paper, and bake very slowly either in a Dutch- 
oven before the fire or in an ordinary oven till done. 
Pour the gravy which runs from them over them, and 
serve at once. Sometimes very thin slices of apple 
and of onion are put in alternation with the liver and 
bacon cooked thus. 

Soft- Boiled Eggs. — If chicken livers cannot be 



210 DIET AND COOKERY 

obtained, a soft-boiled egg may be substituted for them. 
Next to milk, an egg is perhaps the most valuable 
food for invalids that we possess. Yet its excellence 
depends, to a great extent, upon its being properly 
cooked. If it is to be easily digestible, it must be 
gently cooked. If cooked quickly at a high temperature 
it will become tough and hard. Moreover, its quality 
must be considered when calculating the time required 
for cooking. The accepted rule that "an egg should 
boil three minutes " does not answer for all eggs, stale 
and fresh alike. New-laid eggs need four minutes to set ; 
eggs that have been kept for some days will need 
only three minutes. Also it is to be remembered that if 
an egg is to be equally cooked, it must be freely covered 
with water ; it does not answer to boil an egg in a small 
quantity of water, so that the shell is only half immersed. 
The proportion of water needed for one egg boiled in 
a small saucepan is one pint, although a smaller pro- 
portion of water can be used if a number of eggs are to 
be boiled. 

An approved way of cooking eggs for invalid use 
is the following. Put enough water into a saucepan 
to cover the eggs abundantly, and make it fully boil. 
Lower the eggs gently into it, and place the saucepan 
without the lid on the hearth, or at the back of the 
stove, or in some other place where the water will cease 
to boil, yet will not lose its heat too quickly. In ten 
minutes the heat will have penetrated to the centre 
of the egg, the white will be tender and firm, yet 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 211 

sufficiently cooked, and not in the least tough, and 
the yolk will be thick and delicate in flavour. Even 
if the egg should, through inadvertence, be left a little 
longer in the water than ten minutes, it will not become 
hard unless the temperature be raised., 

Toast—See p. 85. 

Siewed Prunes. — Wash the prunes, and if they are 
very dry soak them all night in cold water to cover 
them. Allow a pint of water and six ounces of loaf- 
sugar for every pound of fruit. Boil the sugar and 
water together for a few minutes to make a clear syrup, 
put in the fruit, and simmer gently for a couple of 
hours, or till the prunes are quite soft. Take them 
up with a spoon, and put them into a dish ; boil the 
syrup a little longer until it begins to thicken, then pour 
it over the fruit, and serve when cold. See also p, 166. 

Luncheon. 

Tripe d, la Coutaiice.— {For general remarks on 
tripe, see p. 146.) Take one pound of thin tripe, and 
blanch it as if it were going to be cooked in the ordinary 
way. Drain it, wipe it dry, and cut it into pieces 
two inches wide and four inches long, chopping finely 
the following ingredients separately, then mixing them 
well together — a shallot, a small onion, and two or three 
sprigs of parsley. Take also half a pound of bacon, and 
cut it into thin slices the same size as the strips of tripe. 
Sprinkle a little of the savoury mixture over each piece 
of tripe, with pepper and salt; lay a slice of bacon on the 



212 DIET AND COOKERY 

top, form into neat rolls, and fasten each either with 
needle and cotton or string. The pieces must be straight 
at the ends. 

Put a pint of stock or water into a stewpan. Wash 
and cleanse or scrape a carrot, a small onion, and 
two or three mushrooms. Chop them small, and put 
them, with a bunch of herbs and three or four pepper- 
corns, into the stock. Stand the rolls of tripe round the 
inside of the saucepan, and let the vegetables be in the 
middle, bring to a boil, and simmer for two hours. Take 
up the tripe, and strain the gravy, thicken it with 
little flour and butter, add a few drops of liquid brown- 
ing, a teaspoonful of Harvey, a teaspoonful of ketchup, 
and a few drops of lemon-juice. Let the tripe get 
hot once more in the sauce. Rub the carrot that has 
been strained out of the sauce through a wire sieve. If 
it is of a good colour it will look like red rice, and can 
be used to garnish the rolls. Place the small rolls of 
tripe on end upon a dish, with a little pur^e of carrot on 
each, and cooked vegetables (mashed potatoes or cauli- 
flower) in the centre. The string should not be removed 
from the small rolls directly the tripe is taken up, or 
they will fall. 

Milky Bice. — Kice pudding made without eggs, and 
prepared in such a way that when finished the milk is 
thick and rich like cream, is very nourishing and whole- 
some. In order to prepare it successfully, it must be 
slowly baked ; that is, it must be put into an oven that 
i.s so gentle that the grains will not simply become soft, 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 213 

but that they will swell as they soften. A little knob of 
butter the size of a threepenny-piece should be put with 
it. It is to be remembered that so long as the rice cooks 
at all, the more slowly it is cooked the better. Another 
thing to remember is that the rice should be washed in 
two or three waters before it is cooked ; it should have a 
tiny piece of butter put into the dish with it, and it 
should not be stirred after it is put in the oven. If 
these precautions are observed, it will not be likely to 
burn, even though it should be long in cooking. For a 
milky pudding two tablespoonfuls of rice will be suffi- 
cient for a quart of milk. A little sugar and a pinch of 
salt should be mixed with the milk in the first instance, 
and an inch of stick cinnamon and a little lemon-rind 
may be allowed for flavouring. Kice that is very slowly 
cooked is usually done when it is covered with a brown 
skin. If the oven is over-hot, the pudding-dish may 
be placed in a dripping-tin containing boiling water, 
the supply of water being maintained. This will 
moderate the heat. 

Dinner. 

Boiled Halihiit. — This fish is easy of digestion, and 
has a delicate flavour. When quite fresh it furnishes 
excellent food for invalids. Take the quantity of fish 
that is required, wash it quickly, and divide it into 
pieces convenient for serving. Put it into a wire 
vegetable-basket, or lay it on a strainer, then lower it 
into a saucepan of boiling salted water ; draw the pan 



214 DIET AND VOOKERY 

back, and simmer till done. (A pound of fish will 
probably need to simmer about fifteen minutes : the 
exact time will depend on the thickness.) It must not 
boil fast at any time. When done, lift it up, let it 
drain, and serve it at once with a sauce made as follows 
poured over it. 

Simple Fish Sauce. — Put a tablespoonful of butter 
and half a tablespoonful of flour into a small saucepan, 
and let them simmer together for two minutes. Pour in 
gi'adually half a pint of cold water, and stir it till it 
boils. Add, off the fire, a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, or the grated yolk of a hard-boiled Qgg^ a few 
drops of essence of anchovy, or a little lemon-juice. Serve 
at once. 

Plain Boiled Mutton with Parsley SoMce. — Mutton 
is most suitable meat for an invalid, and boiled mutton 
is particularly so, because when well cooked it is very 
easy of digestion. It is, however, very easily spoiled in the 
cooking, and, therefore, it requires great carb A piece 
from the best end of the neck of mutton is very suitable 
for boiling. It is always well to cut off the scrag, 
because this portion needs to boil longer than the chop 
end. The joint should, however, have a good deal of 
the fat trimmed away, as the fat will swell in cooking, 
and will be very objectionable. The chojDS should be well 
jointed also, and before being put into the pot a string 
should be tied round them to keep them in position. 
Plunge the mutton into boiling water sufficient to cover 
it ; bring it to the boil, remove the scum, and afterwards 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 215 

keep it simmering gently till clone. If it is allowed 
to boil fast it will be spoilt. Fully a quarter of an 
hour to the pound should be allowed for boiling. 
The joint will look neater if the chine bone is cut 
off before cooking, and if the ribs are shortened some- 
what. 

Parsley Sauce is the name usually given in England 
to what is known in high-class cookery as Maitre d'Hotel 
Sauce. For this recipe, see p. 194. 

Baked Potatoes. — Seep. 150. 

Apple Charlotte. — This dish is old-fashioned, but it 
is both dainty and wholesome. Good cooking apples — 
that is, apples that fall well — are needed for making 
it. It can be most readily made in a mould ; a cake- tin 
will answer the purpose. The apples should be peeled, 
cored, and stewed to pulp, then tossed over the fire with 
sugar and a little butter until the pulp begins to be 
stiff. It is not possible to say how much butter oi 
sugar should be put with the fruit, because apples vary 
very much in sweetness and quality. What is wanted 
is a pleasantly flavoured, smooth apple-sauce, mellowed 
and enriched with butter. Take some fingers of stale 
crumb of bread, and fry them lightly in butter. The 
bread should be cut into shapes like the pieces of a 
wooden pail, and should be arranged either to fit exactly 
into the mould or to make the staves overlap each other. 
The mould should then be filled with the apple-sauce. 
Put a lid of lightly fried bread on the top, and bake for 
about an hour, or until the bread and butter have 



216 DIET AND COOKERY. 

assumed a golden-brown tinge ; then turn out carefully, 
and serve with cream. 

The above is the orthodox way to make Apple 
Charlotta A much easier and simpler, yet a very 
excellent, method is the following. Butter a pie-dish 
thickly, and sprinkle plenty of brown sugar over the 
butter, then line the bottom and sides with thin slices of 
bread and butter. Fill the dish with good-falling apples 
that have been peeled, cored, and cut into thick slices ; 
sprinkle a little sugar over, and moisten with lemon- 
juice. Put a lid of buttered bread on the top, and bake 
in a good oven. The bread should be like toffee, crisp 
and brown, but not at all burnt. It is essential that the 
dish should be buttered and sugared thickly, and that 
the Ciiarlotte should be cooked in a good oven. 



NEEVOUS PEOSTEATION, "NEEVES," 
NEUEASTHENIA. 



These terms may be taken as equivalents : they 
represent less a tendency or vice than an actual 
condition produced, and this condition is one of 
exhaustion — of a ruined exchequer. The cause, we 
shall readily believe, is prolonged strain or intensity 
of strain, no matter of what kind. 

Nervous prostration manifests itself in a great 
variety of ways, and chiefly in a want of stabiHty or 
balance of the nervous system ; hence arise the 
manifold forms of hysteria, the neuralgias, the 
inertias ; and in such states so commonly originate 
the habits of drug-taking — alcohohsm, morphinism, 
etc. 

Sleeplessness is a very troublesome symptom in 
this disease, and herein Hes the danger of the 
habitual taking of sleeping-draughts. The serious- 
ness of this condition consists, therefore, as much in 
the temptations which it brings as in the complete 



218 DIET AND COOKERY 

unfitting of the subject for the duties of real life 
In this state naturally kind-hearted people become 
self-centred, and their moral being crystallises in 
sharp-pointed needles of pure selfishness, which 
wound in particular the inmates of the home. 
These crystals, by-the-bye, grow most beautifully 
in the medium of home life. 

There is a good, healthy form of hysteria, or 
"nerves," which well becomes the subject, the 
physical condition being excellent. For this the 
heated poker is the type of treatment. But there 
is another form, in which the patients are thin and 
obviously exhausted, and in whom, therefore, a real 
basis of physical depression exists. This must be 
treated ; and till we attack this stronghold it is 
useless to preach morality — not even the outworks 
will be thus gained. 

First and foremost in the treatment of this 
condition comes diet, though, in severe cases, yet 
earlier will come the complete removal of the 
patient from home surroundings. Isolation, rest 
in bed, frequent feeding with excessive quantities 
— these means have become familiar to us ; but 
short of such extreme measures, we may in milder 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 219 

cases endeavour to feed up the patient to a higher 
level of vitahty. 

One cannot say exactly that a special dietary 
is needed in these cases, the simple prescription — 
" feeding up " — indicating sufficiently the require- 
ments ; but we may add that the use of meat and 
of meat broths should be prominent : thus, soup or 
meat broth twice a day, and meat at least once, 
will be advisable. We shall thus secure that the 
dietary is stimulant. 

The intervals between meals may require to be 
broken in these cases, and a cup of warm or hot 
milk or of cocoa taken in the early morning, if the 
patient wakes early ; also something about eleven 
in the forenoon, again in the afternoon, and the 
last thing at night. 

A dietary such as this we could not venture 
here : it must be on prescription, and adjusted to the 
needs and digestive capabihties of the individual. 

The moral of this section is that " nerves " in 
general may mean that the sufferer has been allowed 
to lapse into a low level of alimentation, and that a 
judicious raising of this — feeding up — may suffice 
to cure the malady. 



FEVER (ACUTE AND CHEONIC). 



Practically, the dietetic treatment of the acute 
febrile state will be in other hands than ours, but 
we may be so circumstanced that for a longer or 
shorter period the feeding will rest with us. In 
such cases we shall always administer slop diet — 
milk or meat broths, or both — and we shall act 
thus for two reasons : (1) because the giving of solid 
food may do positive harm ; (2) because it is useless, 
for the digestive powers, even with moderate fever, 
are too weak to deal with it, and the food remain- 
ing undigested may excite the stomach to vomiting 
or derange the intestines. As a rule, the patient's 
own instincts will guide correctly, and lead him to 
avoid solid food altogether. 

On the whole, milk is the best food to give ad 
interim; and we need only add that if an adult 
takes and digests three pints in the twenty-four 
hours, a child one pint and a half to two pints and 



VIET AND COOKERY. 221 

a half, according to the age, we need not fear that 
the patient will starve. For the rest, we must 
refer back to what we have said in our first part 
as to the methods of dealing with milk and with 
meat broths. In the case of a short-lived feverish 
attack occurring in the midst of health, we may 
safely leave the adult to his own judgment, if 
it counsel abstinence, for twenty-four hours. 

Patients suffering from a fever which periodically 
remits or intermits, and which is essentially chronic 
— e.g. consumptive patients and the subjects of 
malaria — may be able to take solid food with ad- 
vantage, or may actually require it. The solid food 
in these cases should be given, as far as possible, 
during the periods of absence of fever, or when the 
fever is at its lowest ; and if we have no thermo- 
meter, we must look to the well-known symptoms 
of feverishness to guide us. \Vhen the patient feels 
at his best, we may know he is freest from fever, 
and that that is our opportunity for more sub- 
stantial feeding: this, in general, will be during 
the forenoon. 

In the case of malaria patients, it has been 
observed that starvation treatment adds greatly to 



222 DIET AND COOKERY 

the mortality ; and whilst, as a general rule, it is 
stated that the food in these cases should be light 
and nutritious, it is not uncommon for a sufferer 
from ague to be able to eat and digest a very 
respectable meal shortly after recovering from 
a paroxysm. 

We cannot, however, give in any precise form 
dietaries for chronic fever. In the treatment of 
consumption as a form of scrofula we have already 
spoken of the value of fat, and in particular of 
milk. 

Convalescence. 

It is impossible to treat of this except in the 
most general terms. Convalescence is as multiple 
as disease, and the return to health is by as many 
roads as the departure from health : each requires 
a special leading. We can, therefore, only refer to 
Chapter II. for guidance in the selection of foods, 
starting from slop diet in its simplest forms, and 
advancing up the scale to the food of robust health. 
Put very shortly, we may thus set forth this 
scale : — 

Slop Diet — Milk and meat broths, modified or 
mimodified. 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 223 

Farinaceous Foods. — Gruel, arrowroot, etc. ; 
milk puddings, bread and milk, etc. 

Eggs, lightly boiled or beaten-up. 

Fish. — The white-fleshed, hghter kinda 

Poultry. — Fowl. 

Game. — Certain varieties. 

Meat. — Mutton. 

Vegetables — as accessories, as it were — will in 
general come in last, though vegetable flavourmgs 
— as essences, etc. — may come in fairly early. 

Beginning with slop diet, we shall gradually 
admit or substitute the groups as they succeed 
each other; but no one dietary can be given as 
embodying the dietetic treatment of convalescence, 
since this will differ according both to the stage 
of the recovery and the nature of the disease from 
which recovery is taking place. 



DYSPEPSIA. 



The trouble here is more localised, and it aifects 
the alimentary tract. The stomach may be at 
fault, or the intestine ; or, in addition, the special 
organs — Uver and pancreas — may share in the 
trouble, and impress their own characters upon 
the digestive derangement. 

Dyspepsia is not a good term; for whilst it 
means to us difficult digestion — imperfect coction, 
as the older writers put it — its etymological signifi- 
cation would limit the meaning to an indifferent 
peptic action — i.e. to a function gastric only. We 
shall, however, use it here as synonymous with 
indigestion, in whatever part of the alimentary 
tract the cause be situated. 

The first care in an ordinary case of dyspepsia 
is to see that no dietetic error is being committed ; 
that the meals are not too much crowded ; that the 
intervals are not broken by the taking of food 



DIET AND COOKERY. 225 

trifles ; that the food is not hurriedly swallowed, 
and the hasty meal followed by undue exertion, 
strain (physical or mental), etc. All these are 
dietetic errors ; and having eliminated these, we 
proceed to inquire as to the quality and quantity 
of the food taken, and to amend the dietary. 

It is possible to lay down general rules as to 
what may be taken and what should be avoided. 
The exceptions to these rules will concern the 
things to be avoided rather than the things to be 
permitted ; but very occasionally, in cases of idio- 
syncrasy, so called, an article of diet reckoned 
amongst the easiest of digestion will prove in- 
digestible. In our scheme we cannot take count 
of these exceptions: experiment alone can deter- 
mine them. 

A dyspeptic should in the first place be cautious 
in the use of the bread and potato group — 
thus : bread must be at least one day old and 
thoroughly baked, to start with. White bread is 
in general lighter than brown bread (whole-meal) 
the latter tending in some cases to produce acidity, 
in the same way that oatmeal porridge does. With 
every saving clause introduced, bread should be 



226 DIET AND COOKERY 

taken in moderation, and thin dry toast, rusk, and 
plain light water-biscuit mil often replace it with 
advantage. In many cases it would be wise if the 
patient would substitute in part a gluten bread for 
ordinary bread. 

Some forms of malted bread may be found 
of use. 

All forms of pastry, boiled or baked, and :flour 
preparations, such as batter, must be absolutely 
forbidden ; but well-boiled milk puddings, rice, 
sago, tapioca, semolina, barley, etc., are admissible. 

Porridge does not suit in many cases. 

Potatoes are best avoided; if allowed in small 
quantity, they should be thoroughly cooked by 
roasting in their jackets. 

Sugar and sweet preparations — preserves, jams, 
etc. — should be avoided ; glycerine or saccharine 
may replace sugar. 

The dried pulses are not suitable — they tend to 
cause flatulence ; but the Revalenta Arabica — a food 
artijicially prepared from the meal of lentils, beans, 
and peas — is reckoned digestible. 

Vegetables are, as a class, inclined to produce 
flatulence, and those allowed should be taken very 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 227 

temperately. Of the pea group, very young and 
tender green peas and French beans may be taken. 
Of the cabbage tribe, broccoli, cauliflower, spinach, 
and Brussels sprouts will be the best. Of the 
salad group, celery, endive, lettuce ; all thoroughly 
well boiled. Further, asparagus (very young) and 
seakale, both well boiled. Vegetables may with 
advantage be given as purees. 

The root- vegetables and fruit- vegetables are not 
suitable. 

In bad cases of dyspepsia the whole class of 
vegetables should be disallowed. 

Fresh fruits are scarcely to be allowed ; grapes 
form, perhaps, an exception. 

Fruits stewed are more digestible — e.^. apples, 
pears. The roast apple is excellent 

The use of this class is thus very restricted. 

Milk is, in general, suitable, but it often requu'es 
some modification — e.g. by boihng, by the addition 
of isinglass, arrowroot, etc. (see First Part) ; milk 
as junket may be tried. 

Fats in general are not well borne ; and cooked, 
they are specially obnoxious. Frying is therefore 
never to be allowed, unless all the browned and 



228 DIET AND COOKERY 

fat outside parts are carefully removed before 
eating. 

Butter may be taken in small quantity, but not 
cream. 

Cheese is indigestible. 

Eggs may be tried. They should be lightly 
boiled, by preference, but may be also tried beaten- 
up in the raw state. 

Fish (the white-fibred) are allowable ; in par- 
ticular, whiting, sole, flounder, haddock, plaice, 
brill. The fish should be boiled. 

Oysters may be tried. They must not be 
cooked. 

The claw of the lobster is reckoned by some to 
be digestible ; it may be tried. (The fibres of this 
part are very short.) 

Birds (the white-fleshed poultry) are allowed ; 
also game. 

Poultry should be boiled or roast ; game roast, 
with free basting. 

Of butcher's meat, mutton is the best ; but beef 
(especially as tender rump-steak) will generally 
prove both acceptable and digestible. Mutton 
boiled or roast, or, as chop, grilled, also steak. 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 229 

grilled. Tripe and sweetbread will be found to 
digest. They must be plainly dressed. 

Soups (if allowed) should be clear, and taken 
in sraall quantity. They should not contain 
vegetables, though they may contain vegetable 
flavouring. 

Plain dressing and thorough cooking holds 
all round for every class of food. Highly-spiced 
foods are quite unsuitable, but a moderate use oi 
condiments is not forbidden. 

As to beverages : some plead specially for tea, 
particularly if taken weak and brewed for a very 
short time. In most cases this will be found to be 
special pleading, and the forbidding of tea and coffee 
is necessary. Cocoa (the thinner forms, or best, the 
cocoa nibs) mav do as a substitute. Of milk we 
have spoken. 

The quantity taken should not exceed a break- 
fast-cup at a meal, and a teacupful will be 
preferable. 

Plain water, cold or hot, or qualified with a 
little good whisky (if ordered), will be the best 
drink at the mid-day and evening meals. Half 
to three parts of a tumbler should be the limit. 



230 DIET AND COOKERY 

Wines and beers do not suit, especially the latter ; 
nor do lemonades and drinks of this class. 

It will be found in general that curtailing the 
amount of liquid of all kinds is beneficial. 

A great many dietaries have been written out 
for dyspepsia, and some of these are very contra- 
dictory; but a diet such as we have sketched out 
will in the majority of cases give very good 
results. In some cases limitation of the diet to 
meats, almost entirely, gives the best results. We 
shaU now proceed to illustrate this diet by 
actual dishes, but before doing so, just one remark 
may be permitted. Dyspepsia, though causing 
extreme discomfort, is not a disease with any fatal 
tendency : its victims may live long lives, but the 
usefulness of the Hves led and the pleasure in life 
are decidedly at stake. The dyspeptic lacks energy 
and is a hypochondriac ; and, withal, there is the 
epigastric accompaniment of discomfort, not to say 
pain. The choice is before him, and with these 
issues well in view, he is perfectly free to choose 
the tempting dish — only let him not complain. 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 231 



DIETARY TABLES FOR DYSPEPSIA. 



First Day, 



Breakfast. 

One cup of thin Cocoa or Cocoa-nib Infusion, or thinned 

Milk Arrowroot. Toast with a very little Butter. 

Lightly-boiled Egg. Baked Apple. 

Luncheon. 

A Tender Rump Steak, grilled, or Beef or Mutton 

Collops, plainly dressed. 

Milky Rice. Biscuit or Stale Bread. 

Dinner. 

Boiled Sole on Toast. Mutton Chop, grilled, or a Slice 

from a Joint, with Stale Bread. 

Boiled Celery. Devonshire Junket. 

One or two tablespoonfuls of Whisky in half a tumbler 

of plain Water may assist at luncheon and dinner. 



Second Day, 



Breakfast. 

Cocoa as above, or thinned Milk Arrowroot. 

Flaked Haddock. Toast or Gluten Bread. 

A Baked Pear (if too sweet, substitute a Baked Apple). 



232 DIET AND COOKERY 

Luncheon. 

Mutton Cutlets. One Roast Potato (in jacket) or 
Stale Bread. Cup Custard. 

Dinner, 

Clear Soup. Roast Partridge or Roast Pigeon. 

French Beans or Asparagus. 

Lemon Jelly. 

Plain Water Biscuit or Rusks, with a little Butter 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 233 



RECIPES. 



First JDanf, 



Breakfast. 
Cocoa. — See p. 124. 

Thinned Milk Arrowroot. — (Hospital recipe — from 
" Thin Foods," by Dr. and Miss Bullar.)— " Take three 
teaspoonfuls of the best arrowroot (none but the best 
will answer for this recipe) and half a pint of milk. 
Mix in the arrowroot quite smooth, and boil it up, 
stirring it well until it is quite cooked. It will be very 
thick. Take it off the fire, and let it stand till it is 
cool enough to drink ; beat it up with a fork or whisk, 
and stir in well half a teaspoonful of maltine ; in about 
half an hour it will become quite thin, and will be ready 
for use. A little cinnamon boiled in the milk wiU make 
a good flavouring." 

Toast. — See p. 85. Egg^ Boiled.— ^ee p. 210. Apple, 
Baked—See p. 89. 

ZUNCHEON. 

Rump Steak, Broiled. — See p. 204. BeeJ Collops, — 
See p. 139. Milky Rice.— See p. 212. 

Dinner. 
Sole on Toast. — See p. 136. Mutton Chop. — See 
p. 105. 



234 DIET AND COOKERY 

Boiled Celery. — Celery is a favourite vegetable, and 
it is miicli more digestible when boiled than when eaten 
raw. Choose heads that are well grown, and not woolly 
inside. Out off the outer sticks, and trim the roots 
neatly, then cut them into pieces about four inches long. 
Wash them very carefully, and blanch them by boiling 
them in salt and water for a few minutes ; drain, wash 
again, and boil gently till quite tender in well-salted 
milk and water. Use the liquor in which they are 
boiled to make sauce by thickening it with a little flour. 
Dish the celery neatly on toast, pour the sauce over, and 
serve. 

Devonshire Junket. — See p. 141, 



Second Day, 



Breakfast. 

Flaked Haddock. — Boil a fresh haddock in the usual 
way (see p. 126), and when cooked lift the flesh from the 
bones, and let it fall into flakes. Season it daintily with 
pepper and salt, and sprinkle a little lemon-juice over it. 
Have ready a little plain fish-sauce (see p. 214) ; for 
a cupful of prepared fish a cupful of sauce will be 
needed. Toss the fish and the sauce together, arrange 
the mixture on a dish that can be sent to table, put 
bread-raspings on the surface, and bake in a hot oven for 
about a quarter of an hour. 

Toast. — See p. 162. Gluten Bread. — See p. 106. 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 235 

Baked Pears. — Choose large, sound iron pears ; peel, 
halve, and core them, and put them in an earthenware 
jar with some thin strips of lemon-rind, half a pound of 
sugar in lumps, and as much water as will nearly cover 
them. Put them in the oven when the cooking for the 
day is done, let them remain all night, and cook gently 
till tender. To make hard baking pears red without 
using cochineal it is necessary to bake them a long time 
— say, about twenty -four hours. If cooked even longer 
than this they will not hurt, if only thev are gently 

baked. 

Luncheon 

Mutton Cutlets. — See p. 187. 

Roast Potato. — See p. 149. 

Cwp Custard. — Boil half a pint of milk with a 
quarter of an inch of stick cinnamon, and when it rises 
in the pan, pour it upon a lightly-beaten ^^^^^ that has had 
the speck taken from it. Add a pinch of salt, and sugar 
to sweeten the custard agreeably, strain into one large 
or two smaller cups, place them in a deep baking-tin 
in the oven, pour boiling water round them, and let 
them steam thus till firm in the centre. If properly 
cooked, the custard will be smooth throughout, like 
cream, not at all " honeycombed " or watery, and very 
wholesome and digestible. Instead of stick cinnamon, 
the custard may be flavoured with a variety of sub- 
stances, amongst which may be named grated lemon- 
or orange-rind, grated nutmeg, almond or vanilla ex- 
tract. Cup custard mav be served hot or cold. 



236 DIET AND GOOKEB:c 

Dinner. 

Clear Soup. — See p. l '^'^ 

Roast Partridge. — See Roast Rheasant, p. 263, allow- 
ing for the size of the bird. 

Roast Pigeons. — Take two young pigeons. Procure 
house pigeons if they are to be had, and be careful that 
the birds are young and freshly killed. They quickly 
lose their flavour if kept. Put inside each a forcemeat 
ball made of bread-crumbs, a little butter, chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt. Truss firmly with the legs 
forward, the wings to the side and points turned over 
the back, and pass string round the skewers. Hang 
the birds back to back, breast downwards, baste freely 
with good dripping or butter, and draw gradually nearer 
the fire. Ten minutes before taking them up, turn the 
birds, so that the backs may be cooked. When the 
steam draws to the fire it is a sign that they are 
done. They will take from twenty to twenty-five 
minutes. Serve on a hot dish with a little gravy 
over them, and more in a tureen. 

French Beans. — These should be young and small ; 
they can then be cooked whole, and will not need to 
be strung. Have ready plenty of fast-boiling salted 
water, throw them in, and boil quickly, with the lid 
off the pan, till tender. They will take about a quarter 
of an hour. Drain thoroughly, and serve hot. 

French beans are greatly improved by being tossed 
in butter after boiling. They are then named French 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 237 

P>eans Saute, Melt a slice of butter in the pan (two 
ounces of butter will be needed for each pound of beans), 
throw in the drained vegetables, and toss them over the 
fire for five or six minutes. A little lemon-juice may be 
added last thing. This mode of cookery is scarcelj" 
suitable for the dyspeptic. 

When scarlet-runners are provided, they must be 
"strung," then cut into thin strips lengthwise, and 
boiled like French beans. 

Asparagus. — See p. 97. 

Lemon Jelly. — Soak half an ounce of gelatine in one 
pint of water for an hour. Prepare the very thin rind of 
the lemon (the rind should be cut so thinly that it 
can be seen through, or till it is equally yellow on both 
sides). Take also the strained juice of two small lemons, 
two ounces of sugar, or more according to taste. Put 
all these ingredients into a saucepan, with the whisked 
white and crushed shell of one egg, and stir until the 
liquid rises in the pan. Let it simmer a minute, draw 
it back, and let it stand for a quarter of an hour, then 
pour it into a jelly-bag or napkin, and, without dis- 
turbing the sediment, let it drip through. When quite 
clear, add a glass of sherry and a tablespoonful of brandy, 
if approved, and mould the jelly when it is on the point 
of setting. Sometimes a couple of cloves and a tiny 
piece of stick cinnamon are used for flavouring as well 
as lemons. 



BILIOUSNESS. 



This term is popular, but exceedingly vague. It 
is applied to the temperament, but the tempera- 
ments are of the past ; to the complexion, when 
this is more or less sallow; to certain forms of 
vomiting and diarrhoea, in which an excess of 
bile is present in the stomach and intestines, and 
characterises the egesta ; lastly, to a certain group 
of symptoms characterised by loss of appetite, 
nausea (generally terminating in sickness), headache, 
furred tongue, constipation. 

The last mentioned is that which concerns us 
most — ^viz. the " bilious attack " — though it is by 
no means clear what part the bile or the liver 
plays in its production. In most cases the attack 
is nothing but an acute dyspeptic seizure, some- 
times brought on by errors in diet, but sometimes 
of distinctly nervous origin — the so-called nervous 
or sick headache. 

The dietetic treatment for this passing seizure 



DIET AND COOKERY. 239 

is negative — viz. by abstinence or by the taking of 
the very hghtest forms of diet — such as milk and 
soda-water, water or milk arrowroot, or such like. 
There is no memo for the attack. 

To prevent the occurrence of the attack, we 
observe the general rules already laid down for 
dyspeptics, and especially as regards the use of 
fat and rich dishes, and of pastry in every form ; 
sugar also, and sweet foods, must be taken in 
great moderation, or abstained from altogether. 
Thus there is nothing fresh to be said on the 
subject of prevention. The avoidance of the list 
of the other dietetic errors abeady mentioned will, 
of course, hold. It must not be forgotten, however, 
that many subjects of bihous attacks do not seem 
to suffer otherwise from dyspepsia in the intervals. 
These should not live richly, it is true, but they 
need not be over-strict, for in them it may be 
that the " attack " is simply the manifestation of 
a nerve-storm, the causes for which are outside 
the ahmentary tract. 

Note on Gallstones. — A patient who is the 
subject of gallstones may, subsequently to an attack, 



240 DIET AND COOKERY. 

and in the hope of avoiding further attacks, adopt 
certain measures, hygienic and dietetic. These have 
been summarised for us by a master of the heaUng 
art as follows : — " He (the patient) must rise early, 
and take plenty of exercise in the open air, sleep in 
an airy bedroom, live sparely, drink little or no 
wine, and avoid all rich, fatty, and saccharine food 
and malt liquors." 



(t r 



rOEPID" OE '* SLUGGISH" LIVEE. 



Other vague terms; but they mean something, 
and the hver is accused because, in addition to the 
usual troubles — dyspeptic— referred to the pit of 
the stomach or under the heart, the region of the 
Hver, just above and below the right margin of the 
ribs, is now the seat of discomfort — fulness, weio-ht 
aching. Pain in these cases is often referred to the 
right shoulder-blade or to the right shoulder. The 
complexion may be more or less sallow, and the 
whites of the eyes appear tarnished. There will 
probably be constipation. These are the principal 
symptoms. 

The real nature of the symptoms at work here 
is by no means clear, and there is not lacking evi- 
dence to show that a certain relation exists between 
this group of symptoms and the group of affections 
already spoken of under the headings Gout, Gravel, 
Stone (uric acid). 



242 DIET AND COOKERY, 

Leaving the matter to the physician to solve, 
what we do know more - definitely is that excessive 
eating and drinking may cause the symptoms of 
" torpid " liver, and that certain articles of diet are 
specially noxious. Such are : Fatty and saccharine 
matters, and all forms of pastry ; also all malt 
liquors, particularly the stronger or fuller kinds ; 
the fuller -bodied wines: port, sherry, Madeira; 
sweetened spirits, and liqueurs. A highly animal- 
ised diet will not suit these cases, and any meat 
taken must be of the lighter kinds, and the dressing 
must be very plain. 

This will apply to the routine diet of life, but 
during the actual persistence of the symptoms 
enumerated above, it would probably be best also 
to withdraw butchers' meat wholly from the 
dietary, for the time being. We thus note that 
the dietetic treatment will partake of the treatment 
of the dyspeptic and of the gouty, and, judging by 
the treatment, we are justified in regarding the 
•' torpid " or " sluggish " liver as a symptom of 
the gouty-dyspeptic. 



VOMITING. 



The treatment of vomiting will certainly be in the 
hands of the medical man, and pending his arrival 
we shall either give no food or food in its simplest 
forms — e.g., a little iced milk, milk and soda, thin 
arrowroot made with water or milk, barley-water, 
etc. A teaspoonful of brandy added may some- 
times help to stay the stomach. 

There l« no dietary which we need consider. 



DIAERHCEA. 



The treatment of this affection also will be mostly 
outside our limits, but for passing disturbances of 
this kind a few simple dietetic observances may 
suffice. 

The diet must be reduced to its simplest terms : 
Milk (preferably boiled) and milk foods, such as 
arrowroot, corn-flour, gruel, etc. Milk puddings — 
sago, rice, tapioca — are very suitable. Egg, beaten 
up or lightly boiled, may be taken. The addition 
of some spice, such as cinnamon or clove, is gene- 
rally found grateful, and also the addition of a 
small quantity of brandy. 

Food should not be taken hot, but either sHghtly 
warm or (if preferred) of the normal atmospheric 
temperature. There is no call to ice the food, as 
has been advised, unless the stomach is also very 
irritable. 

Should the patient fancy it, a little meat jelly 



DIET AND COOKERY. 245 

or meat juice, or even a little beef tea or mutton 
broth, thickened with sago, or rice, or tapioca, might 
be tried. 

The idea prevails that meat broths do not suit 
in diarrhoea cases, but some attacks, especially in 
children, are best treated exclusively on meat 
juices. 

Meat broth, if allowed, should be taken cool or 
sUghtly warmed. 

As the attack passes off there is a gradual return, 
by tentative steps, to ordinary diet. 



CONSTIPATION. 



This — a very common and habitual trouble — may 
sometimes be successfully combated by dietetic 
means alone. In every case we should first try 
such means before having recourse to medicine^ 
We may state very briefly the needful obser- 
vances : — 

(a) Fresh fruit and vegetables should be intro- 
duced liberally into the diet. Kipe fruit (apple, 
pear, orange) is best taken before breakfast — the 
first thing in the morning. Stewed figs and stewed 
prunes may be tried in their stead, if necessary. 
Ripe or stewed fruits may also accompany the lun- 
cheon and dinner. Fresh vegetables may be taken 
as salads, but there is more scope for the use of 
cooked vegetables — in particular, green vegetables 
The Spanish onion (boiled) appears to be of special 
value 

(h) A coarse whole-meal bread should veplaoo 



DIET ANB COOKERY. 247 

the finer white breads, and a plate of coarse oat or 
wheat-meal porridge may be taken daily. This will 
of course, come into the breakfast meal. 

(c) Oils and fats appear to act beneficially ; and 
hence, cream, butter, salad oil may be liberally par- 
taken of. 

(d) Milk and eggs are held to constipate : they 
do so less in the uncooked state. 

(e) Rice, sago, tapioca, and some other farinacea 
are also held to constipate. 

(/) Tea may be replaced by coffee or cocoa, both 
of which are comparatively free from astringency. 

For the rest, ordinary food may be eaten with- 
out let or hindrance. 

Unfortunately, constipation is too often associated 
with dyspepsia of some form or other, and then we 
may be unable to try the above-mentioned articles 
of food. The limitations of such dyspepsia will be 
the same as those already set forth. 

As in the case of dyspepsia, so in the case of 
constipation : we must make sure that no errors of 
Hving are being committed — e.g., want of exercise 
of routine attention to the action of the bowels, 
etc. If present, we must first correct these. 



248 DIET AND COOKERY 



DIETARY TABLES FOR CONSTIPATION. 



Ripe fresh fruit or a tumbler of cold water taken 
regularly the first thing in the morning. If fresh fruit is 
not available, an excellent substitute may be obtained by 
soaking a prune or a fig all night in a tablespoonful of 
best olive oil. 

First Day, 



Breakfast, 

Oatmeal Porridge^ coarse variety best. 

Coffee or Cocoa. Bacon. 

Brown Bread and Butter. Tomato Salad. 

Luncheon. 

Mutton Collops and Onion Sauce. Baked Apple. 

Dinner. 

Celery Soup. Marengo of Chicken. Potatoes. 

Mixed Salad, with salad-oil dressing, freely. 

Water Toast with Compdte of Apples. 



Second Day. 



Breakfast, 

Porridge, or Hot Oatmeal Muffins, 

Cocoa or Coffee. 

Sardines preserved in oil. 

Tomato Sandwiches. 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 249 

Luncheon. 

Raw Oysters. Brown Bread and Butter. 

Baked Pears. 

Dinner. 

Fried Sole. Braised Mutton, 

Boiled Spanish Onions, or some other vegetable if 

preferred. 

Hydropathic Pudding. 

Celery with Cheese and Biscuits. 



250 DIET AND COOKERY 



RECIPES. 



First JDay 



Breakfast. 

Oatmeal Porridge. — Seep. 124. Coffee. — See p. 89. 
Cocoa. — See p. 181. Bacon, — See p. 129. Tomato 
Salad. — See p. 162. 

Luncheon. 

Mutton Collops. — See p. 191. Onion Sauce. — See 
p. 147. Baked Ajyple. — See p. 89. 

I?INNEIi. 

Celery Soup. — Wash a single head of celery, cut it 
into inch lengths, put it into a saucepan with a small 
onion, and a slice of butter. Cover closely, and let the 
vegetables " sweat " for a few minutes over the fire to 
draw out the flavour ; and shake the pan now and again 
to keep them from burning. Drain off the fat, and in 
its place put about a pint of water or the stock in which 
a leg of mutton or a fowl has been boiled, and simmer 
till tender. Kub the soup through a sieve. Mix a 
dessertspoonful of flour to a smooth paste with cold 
water, and add boiling milk to make a pint of white 
sauce. Mix this with the celery pulp, add pepper and 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 251 

salt and a quarter of a pint of creara j make hot, and 
serve. 

Marengo of Chicken. — See p. 152. 

Potato Snow. — See p. 190. 

Mixed Salad. — See p. 86. 

Water Toast. — Toast four thin rounds of bread. 
Have ready a little boiling water well salted. Dip 
each slice quickly in and out of the water, then butter 
it well, and pile the slices one upon another in a silver 
or metal dish that has been made very hot. Serve as 
hot as possible. If the toast is allowed to get cold and 
clammy, it will be disagi'eeable, but if hot and slightly 
crisp it will be excelleitt eaten with apple. 

Ajyple Compote. — Wash, pare, and core without 
breaking any number of good well-flavoured apples 
of an equal siza Stew them gently in a pie-dish with 
water that does not quite cover them, and allow 
a thin strip of lemon rind and two large lumps of 
sugar for each apple. Cover the apples while in the 
oven, and bake them gently until they are soft, but not 
broken. Look at them frequently; when nearly done, 
take them out of the oven before they can fall, and put 
them in a glass dish. Boil the syrup with a pinch of 
soaked gelatine and half a glass of sherry, and pour it 
round the apples when cold. Put a little bright-coloured 
jelly or a knob of cream on the top of each apple. 
Wellington apples answer excellently for this dish, 
because they are very white when cooked, and therefore 
look pretty 



252 DIET AND COOKERY 

Second Day, 



Breakfast. 

Porridge. — See p. 181. 

Oatmeal Muffins. — Take a cupful of cooked oatmeal 
(cold porridge that is thoroughly well boiled and rather 
dry will do for this purpose) ; beat the oatmeal well with 
a cupful of milk, added gradually. Stir into it a salt- 
spoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, a pint of 
flour that has been well mixed with two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, and a lightly-beaten egg. Add more 
milk if necessary ; a moderately thick batter is required. 
Last of all, stir in a tablespoonf ul of bu\:ter melted ; beat 
for half a minute, and bake immediately in well-greased 
pans or muffin-rings in a hot oven for half an hour. 
These muffins are to be eaten hot. 

Cocoa. — See p. 124. 

Coffee.—See p. 89. 

Sardines with Oil and Vinegar. — Take as many 
sardines as are likely to be wanted from the tin, drain 
them well, remove the skin, and take up the flesh in 
fillets. Cleanse thoroughly a small quantity of lettuce, 
or a little mustard-and-cress. Dry it perfectly by toss- 
ing it in a dry napkin, and shred it finely. Mix the 
salad with oil and vinegar, put it on a dish, arrange the 
fillets of sardines upon it crosswise, to make a sort of 
trellis, and sprinkle chopped gherkins on the top. 

Tomato Sandwiches. — Seep. 138. 



FOE COMMON AILMENTS. 253 

ZUNCHEOJV. 

Raiv Oysters. — See p. 94-. 
Baked Pears. — See p. 235. 

Dinner, 

Fried Sole.— See Y>. 162. 

Braised Mutton. — See p. 163. 

Boiled Spa7iish Onions. — Take the requisite number 
of Spanish onions of uniform size, peel them, and boil 
them gently in salted water for two or three hours till 
tender. Drain them, and put them in a hot dish. Have 
ready a little Maitre d'Hotel butter, put a piece about 
the size of a filbert on each onion, and serve. 

Maitre d^ Hotel BiUter. — Pick some leaves of parsley 
from the stems, wash them well, and chop finely. After 
chopping, wash a second time by putting the parsley in 
the corner of a cloth, dipping it in cold water, and 
wringing it dry. The second washing removes the acrid 
taste which is sometimes present in fresh parsley. Put 
the parsley on a plate with its bulk in fresh butter, a 
little pepper and salt, and a few drops of lemon-juice. 
Work the ingredients together with the point of a knife 
till the mixture is smooth, and of the consistency of very 
thick cream, when it will be ready for use. If the butter 
is prepared before it is wanted, it must be kept in a cool 
place, as if melted it would oil and be spoUt. In order 
to avoid this mischance, it is necessary to mix it in a 
cool place. 

Hydropathic Pudding. — See p. 132. 
I* 



BETGHT'S DISEASE. 



The treatment of this disease, dietetic as well as 
other, will be wholly in the hands of the doctor 
during the acute stage ; but when the disease has 
lapsed into a chronic condition, and in those cases 
which, beginning insidiously, never have an acute 
stage, the patients are more or less at large, and 
undertake more or less the duties and responsi- 
bihties of social life. To these, dietetic rules become 
of much importance, and by their means, amongst 
others, the patients may avoid the dangers which 
beset them on all sides. 

Bright's disease includes several forms of depar- 
ture from health, but of all we may say that the 
kidneys are at fault — if not primarily, or perhaps 
even mainly, in every case, yet decidedly at fault — 
and the endeavour has always been to lighten, as 
far as possible, the labours of this important excre- 
ting organ. Now, a very essential function of the 



VIET AND COOKERY. 255 

kidneys is the separation from the body of the 
waste products derived from the brealdng up of 
albuminous, nitrogenous compounds ; and hence, 
to lessen the in-take of foods rich in albumen has 
hitherto been made an essential feature of the 
dieting. Theory urges this upon us, and experi- 
ence is supposed to have established the theory ; 
and we see no reason at present to depart from 
the usual lines of treatment ; but of late some 
doubts have been thrown upon the wisdom of the 
practice, and experiments have quite recently been 
brought forward to show that a full nitrogenous 
diet is beneficial, and not harmful. Under the cir- 
cumstances, whilst advising that the usual dietetic 
precautions should be adopted, we would urge that 
they should not be persisted in if the patient does 
not thrive, and that then a more hberal dietary 
might be tried. In any case, such a change should 
be under medical advice. 

The following are the diets adopted in cases of 
Bright's disease : — 

(1) Milk only. The patient while adopting this 
should be under observation. The milk may be 
unmodified, and taken cold or warm, to the patient's 



2ft6 DIET AND COOKERY 

taste ; or it may be skimmed. In the latter case, 
constipation is more likely to arise. Four, five, or 
even six pints of milk may be taken in the twenty- 
four hours. The use of modified milk — e.^., whey 
and koumiss — has been advocated in place of 
milk. 

(2) A modified milk diet, in which milk is still 
the basis of the regimen ; but by various means — 
farinaceous thickenings and various flavourings — 
the monotony is relieved. 

(3) A mixed dietary. This is the dietary most 
often adopted when the disease has become con- 
firmed ; and it is in the earlier stages of the trouble, 
or in stages half-way between the acute trouble and 
the established disease, that the stricter diets are 
more successful. 

In the mixed dietary, the bread, rice, and potato 
group may be freely used, but the cooking must be 
thorough ; and for this reason all pastries should be 
avoided. Milk puddings and bread puddings may 
replace pastry. Thoroughly cooked oatmeal or 
wheatmeal porridge may be allowed at breakfast. 

Sugar in moderation is permissible, but sweets 
— e.g., jams, preserves — are best avoided. 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 257 

The dried pulses are questionable : they are, 
of course, rich in nitrogen, but their chief dis- 
qualification is that they are difficult of digestion. 
The prepared meal (Revalenta Arabica) may be 
tried, and we cannot forbid trial of even the 
unprepared bean meals. 

The entire group of green vegetables — the 
pea group, in the green and very young state, 
the salad group, also seakale, asparagus, the 
green and Jerusalem artichoke, the onion, 
marrow, tomato — all may be partaken of to the 
extent of their digestibility in each individual 
case. 

Fresh ripe fruit is suitable. 

Milk in any form : butter, cream. Cheese should 
not be taken. 

Eggs are regarded by some as unsuitable. 

Fish : the white kinds ; the white-fleshed poultry ; 
game. Of these the albuminuric patient may 
partake in moderation. 

Of butcher's meat, if any be allowed, it will be 
mutton ; but in general the whole group will be 
avoided or partaken of very sparingly. 

Fat bacon may be allowed, well toasted. 



258 DIET AND GOOKEBY 

It will be seen, then, that the special character- 
istics of this dietary are the limitation of the solid 
albuminous foods, both as to quality and quantity, 
and the accentuation of the use of milk. 

As to beverages other than milk : the use of tea 
and coffee will depend upon their toleration, and in 
certain cases where dyspepsia is prominent these 
will both have to be forbidden. Cocoa may then 
be substituted, and best, the cocoa from the nibs. 

Alcohol in general is not well tolerated, and if 
allowed, should be taken as claret or hock ; or a 
light beer may be tried. Water is best in the 
majority of cases. We would insist again that the 
effects of diet in the individual case must be most 
carefully watched, and in not a few cases the wisest 
physician will interfere least by diet or otherwise 
with the patient. 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 259 



DIETAKY TABLES FOR BRIGHT'S DISEASE. 



First Day. 



Breakfast. 

Porridge, with plenty of Milk. 
Cocoa. 
Brown or White Bread, or Toast, with Butter. 
Baked Slips. 

Luncheon. 

Tripe, and Onion Sauce. 
Tapioca Cream, with Stewed Fruit. 

Dinner. 

Milk Soup. 

Calf's Sweetbread, or Roast Pheasant. 

Mashed Potatoes. Vegetable Marrow. 

Milky Rice and Baked Apples (the pudding to be very 

Milky). 



Second JDay, 



Breakfast. 

Porridge with Milk, or Thickened Milk. 

Boiled Fresh Herrings, with Dry Toast. 

Stewed Fruit and Cream 



260 DIET AND COOKERY 

Luncheon. 

Filleted Haddock, with Brown Bread and Butter. 
Apple Snow. 

Dinner. 
Grilled Chop, or Roast Chisken. 
Bread Sauce. 
Duchess Potatoes and Salad. 
Bread Pudding with Fruit Sauca 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 261 



RECIPES. 



I Irst Day. 



Breakfast, 

Porridge. — See p. 181. 

Cocoa. — See p. 124. 

Baked Slips. — Soles too small for frying or filleting 
are usually called " slips " in the market. They are sold 
at a lower rate per pound than the larger fish, but they 
are very sweet and delicate. Scrape but do not skin 
them, and let them lie between the folds of a cloth to 
make them quite dry. Brush them on the white side 
with dissolved butter, sift bread-crumbs over them, and 
lay them white side uppermost in a buttered baking- 
tin, and bake till the flesh leaves the bones easily. Thus 
prepared, the fish will not need any sauce. 

Luncheon. 

Tripe and Onion Sauce. — See p. 146. 

Tapioca Cream. — Stew a brimming tablespoonful of 
pearl tapioca in half a pint of milk ; sweeten and flavour 
with cinnamon, and set it away to cool ; just before serv- 
ing add a gill of cream which has been whipped till firm. 
Serve with stewed fruit. 

Stewed Fruit. — When fruit is allowed . at all for 
invalids, nearly every kind may be used that is sound 



262 DIET AND COOKERY 

and in good condition, provided it is daintily stewed. 
Fruit should be cooked in an earthenware or porcelain 
saucepan. The harder sorts should have a little water 
put with them. Fruit stewed in the French way — that 
is, made into a compote, is generally found to be ac- 
ceptable to invalids. According to this method the 
amount of sugar needed is boiled first to a clear syrup 
with a little water ; the fruit is then put in and sim- 
mered gently till soft, when it should be lifted into a 
glass dish, the syrup boiled a few minutes longer, and 
poured over it when cool. Compotes should always be 
made with fine loaf sugar. They are delicious and re- 
freshing, and fruit cooked thus — that is, not over-cooked 
— retains its flavour well. The time required varies 
with the nature of the fruit. The softer sorts, such as 
raspberries and strawberries, need to simmer for a few 
minutes only. 

jD/NJV£J?. 

Milk Soup. — Take two large potatoes, or three small 
ones, a leek or a small onion, one ounce of butter, an 
ounce and a half of crushed tapioca, and a little pepper 
and salt. Set a quart of water to boil. Prepare the 
potatoes and onion, cut them into slices, and throw them 
into the boiling water. Add an ounce of butter and 
half a saltspoonful of salt, and boil for an hour. Kub 
the soup through a sieve, return it to the saucepan, and 
let it boil again, and put with it half a pint of boiling 
milk. Sprinkle into it gradually an ounce and a half of 
crushed tapioca, boil till clear, and serve. 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 263 

Sweetbread. — See p. 136. 

Pheasant. — Pluck, draw, and truss the bird, and 
either lard it or pass it through hot fat, before puttmg 
it down to the fire, and baste it well whilst it is being 
cooked. It should be well done, the time required to 
be regulated by the size of the bird. It is usual to allow 
three-quarters of an hour for a good-sized bird ; rather 
less for a small one. Send bread sauce and brown gravy 
to table with the pheasant. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Take three or four cooked potatoes, 
and break them smoothly, or, better still, press them 
through a wire sieve. Put two tablespoonfuls of milk 
and a knob of butter into a saucepan ; boil, then stir 
in the potatoes, add a pinch of salt, and beat briskly 
over the fire for a minute or two till the mixture is dry. 
Serve very hot. 

Milky Pice. — See p. 212. Vegetable Marrow. — See 
p. 190. 



Second Day. 



Breakfast. 

Thickened Milk. — Break an egg into a bowl, and put 
with it a pinch of salt and a little sugar. Beat it till it 
is light, but not foamy ; then pour on it a tumblerful of 
boiling milk. Stir it well, add a little flavouring if liked, 
and serve when cool in a tall glass. 

Boiled Fresh Herrings. — Boiled fresh herrings are 
not as well known as they deserve to be. They are 



264 DIET AND COOKERY 

very delicate and easy of digestion, and less rich than 
when fried or broiled. To prepare them, wash, scale, and 
empty the fish, dip them into vinegar, and skewer them 
in a ring with their tails in their mouths. Lower them 
gently into boiling salted water, draw the pan back 
immediately, and simmer softly till done. They will be 
cooked in six or eight minutes, and should be taken up 
the instant they are ready, as even a little over-boiling 
will spoil them. They should be drained, served on a 
hot dish, and garnished with parsley. For other ways 
of cooking fresh herrings, see Rheumatic Gout. 

Luncheon. 
Filleted Haddock. — See p. 93. 
Apple Snow. — See p. 155. 

Dinner. 

Grilled Chop. — See p. 105. 

Roast Chicken. — Truss a chicken firmly, and cover it 
with well-greased kitchen paper, or, if preferred, bind a 
slice of bacon over the breast. Put it neck downwards 
to a clear fire, and baste it well with butter or dripping. 
A few minutes before it is cooked remove the bacon or 
paper, and let it brown well. A chicken would need to 
roast about half an hour, a large fowl one hour. Brown 
gravy, made of stock or of the giblets, should be served 
with the fowls. 

When a chicken has been procured specially for^the 
use of an invalid, it is a good plan to divide the bird into 
two portions by cutting it down the middle with a sharp 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 265 

knife. The two halves can be cooked in different ways, 
to furnish two hot dishes. One half of a chicken may be 
roasted or baked, and the other may be broiled, boiled, 
or stewed. 

Bread Sauce. — Prepare some bread-crumbs by rubbing 
stale crumb of bread through a wire sieve. Pour on it an 
equal measure of boiling milk, cover it, let it soak for a 
quarter of an hour or so, then turn it into a delicately 
clean saucepan, season with salt and white pepper, and 
boil it for a few minutes, stirring it constantly the while. 
Add a spoonful of cream, boil once more, and serve. 
Sometimes a mild flavour of onion is liked in bread 
sauce. When this is the case, an onion may be boiled 
in the milk that is to be poured over the crumbs. If 
approved, the onion may be finely chopped and mixed 
with the sauce. 

DiLchess Potatoes. — Bake half a dozen large potatoes, 
then peel them and rub the white part through a sieve. 
The pulp of baked potatoes will be dry and mealy, and 
that is what is wanted. Mash them lightly and quickly 
with a little piece of butter, pepper and salt, an egg^ 
and, if necessary, a spoonful of cream to form a firmish 
paste. Roll this on the pastry board to make a flat cake, 
about the third of an inch thick ; cut it into oblono- 
squares or rounds, brush them over with milk, and bake 
in a greased baking-tin in a quick oven till lightly 
browned. Serve at once. 

Salad. — See p. 86. 

Bread Pudding with Fruit Sauce. — Take as many 



266 DIET AND COOKERY. 

fine bread-crumbs as are required for the size of the 
pudding. Supposing there are crumbs to fill a gill 
measure, make a custard with half a pint of milk 
daintily flavoured, and the yolks of two eggs, and sugar 
to taste. Pour this over the crumbs, and let them soak 
for a while, then add a pinch of salt and a small lump of 
butter, and beat well. Just before cooking, add the 
whites of the eggs that have been whisked to a froth. 
Carefully butter the inside of a large breakfast cup or 
small basin, pour in the mixture, lay a round of greased 
paper on the top, and place the basin in a saucepan with 
as much boiling water in it as will reach half-way up 
the side. Steam gently for about three-quarters of an 
hour, let it stand a few minutes, turn it out carefully, 
and send a liberal supply of fruit sauce to table with it. 

Fruit Sauce. — Stone some plums or blackberries, put 
with them a slice of toasted bread, a glass of claret, and 
a little water, and simmer gently till soft. Rub the whole 
through a sieve or colander to keep back skin or seeds, 
sweeten pleasantly, and add a little lemon juice. Make 
the sauce hot for serving. It is obvious that the claret 
may be omitted, if desirable, and water can be used in 
itii place. 



HEAET DISEASE. 



In a great variety of general affections the heart 
follows suit, indicating its sympathy by disturbed 
action. The dyspeptic, the obese, the gouty, the 
anaemic may all suffer from heart symptoms — such 
as breathlessness, palpitation, and the like. The 
treatment for this secondary affection of the heart 
is the treatment of the primary general disturbance ; 
but in a considerable group of heart affections this 
organ is damaged mechanically, and the mechanical 
failure assumes the character of a primary disorder. 
The distinction should always be made between 
heart disease and heart failure. The heart may be 
diseased — e.g., there may be some damage to a 
valve, involving more or less faulty action, but the 
faulty action may be more or less completely 
compensated for by adaptation : the powers of 
the heart to adapt itself are remarkable. On the 
other hand, the disease may have progressed to 



268 DIET AND COOKE EY 

such an extent that adaptation fails. The fault is 
then no longer compensated for, and heart failure 
is established. 

So long as there is no heart failure, we do not 
treat heart disease as such, either medically or 
dietetically, though we shall, of course, lay down 
such rules as shall maintain the general health at 
its best and spare the heart most ; but the moment 
the heart fails it must be treated. 

Heart failure invariably means a feeble circula- 
tion, with congestions or stagnations of blood. The 
alimentary tract, and in particular, its important 
appendage, the liver, sutFer such congestions, and 
the process of digestion is more or less impaired. 
At times the digestive disturbance assumes the 
character of crises of acute dyspepsia : such are the 
gastric crises, so called. 

It cannot be said that there is any specific 
dietetic treatment for heart failure. The food 
must be light and nutritious ; but this statement 
means very little, and, in point of fact, we shall 
have to range from a purely milk or slop diet during 
a gastric upset, up through the milk and farinaceous 
diet, the fish and poultry diet, to the full diet, in- 



FOE COMMON AILMENTS. 269 

eluding a liberal allowance of butcher's meat. The 
dietetics of dyspepsia in general will be the dietetics 
of the impaired digestion of heart failure. We must 
therefore refer back to the section on Dyspepsia. 

Limiting the liquids is sometimes found very 
helpful — e.g., one tea-cupful in place of two, and a 
tea-cup to replace the breakfast-cup ; a half- tumbler 
at luncheon and dinner. The patient soon gets 
accustomed to the drier diet. 

In cases of heart disease, dyspepsia, etc., a 
point is sometimes made of the time for the chief 
meal, the mid-day (1 to 1.30) being selected as the 
most suitable. This — other things being equal — 
is the best time, but much Avill depend upon 
previous habit and upon the exigencies of the 
day's routine, and it is not wise to lay down the 
law too rigorously. 



BRONCHITIS. 



Bronchitis is frequently a secondary trouble, and 
referable to a vice of system — e.g., the gouty; or to 
disease elsewhere — e.g., heart disease. Where this 
is demonstrable, the dietetic treatment must recog- 
nise the underlying vice or the diseased organ 
primarily at fault. Where such is not demonstrable, 
it calls for little that can be regarded as special 
treatment. We may summarise very briefly the 
needful : — 

(1) In general, the patient needs supporting, 
and the diet should include the moderate use of 
cordials — preferably, a littlo good spirit (whisky or 
brandy) ; but a dry sherry or port (if there be no 
gouty tendencies) may be allowed, also an occasional 
glass of dry champagne. 

(2) The mid-day is in most cases the best time 
for the chief meal. (See previous remarks.) 

(3) The diet, though supporting, should be 



DIET AND COOKERY. 271 

easy of digestion : Milk and milk foods ; eggs, 
beaten up with milk or in the tea or coffee, with or 
without a small quantity of spirit ; a small quantity 
of strong soup once or twice a day ; white fish ; 
poultry (white-fleshed); mutton; the more diges- 
tible vegetables, thoroughly cooked, etc. 

(4) In some cases limitation of the fluids is 
found beneficial. Bearing in mind the principle of 
the diet— supporting and stimulant, but easy 
of digestion — we need not repeat at length 
the list of suitable foods, or plan out a special 
dietary. 



ASTHMA. 



In the treatment of asthma also we shall proceed 
on similar lines : the food should be light, but 
nutritious. The asthmatic has often a very sensi- 
tive stomach, and disturbance here by bulky 
or by indigestible food is very Hable to provoke 
an attack. The night is the period in which 
the attack is most liable to occur. On these 
counts we shall be careful (1) to select the diet on 
the lines already laid down with reference to dys- 
pepsia ; and (2) we shall endeavour to secure the 
completion of the digestive process, or reduce this 
to a minimum of strain, before retiring to bed. 
Late suppers or late dinners are therefore to bo 
avoided. The mid-day meal must be the principal 
one, and what food is subsequently taken must be 
light. We can help this plan of lightening the 
evening task by making the breakfast rather more 
substantial, but even this and the mid-day meal 



DIET AND COOKERY. 273 

should be comparatively light, the diet in general 
being " spare." 

Cocoa, as beverage, will often advantageously 
replace tea and coffee. The latter is a valuable 
agent in treating the attack itself, but its use may 
be reserved for such emergencies, or, at any rate, 
be occasional only. 

Stimulants may be required, but as a rule the 
patient is better without them. If allowed, a small 
quantity of good spirit, moderately diluted, will 
probably be the best form. It will, of course, be 
taken as a digestive aid at meal-time. 

Asthma is so enigmatical, not to say paradoxical 
a disease, that we must be prepared for any freak, 
however strange, in matters dietetic as well as 
hygienic ; but the general run of cases will be met 
bcbt as above described. 



LIQUID AND SEMI-LIQUID FOODS, 
OE "SLOP DIETAEY." 



Fever patients are limited to " slop diet," which is 
also advisable or even necessary during the feverish 
stages of many other complaints, not popularly 
considered fevers, though the character of their 
onset is well understood by medical men. Also 
during many stages, even of convalescence, the 
patient may be unable to bear more than this kind 
of food. It is therefore desirable, in a work like 
this, to collect here the best recipes for food ot 
this general description. 



MEAT TEAS, BROTHS AND SOUPS. 

Beef Tea. — Freshly-killed, lean, juicy beef is re- 
quired for making beef tea. Shin of beef is often chosen, 
but it contains more gelatine than gravy. Fine steak, 
or the roll of the blade-bone of beef, are perhaps the best 
portions that can be chosen for the purpose. Take 
away every morsel of fat, skin, gristle, etc., and leave 



BIET AND GOOKEEY. 276 

nothing but the lean fibre ; cut this into very small 
pieces, put it in a jar, and pour cold water over it, 
allowing, as a rule, a pint of water for a pound of 
meat. Let it soak foi an hour, when the water should 
be red and the meat white ; then cover it closely, and set 
the jar in a deep saucepan with boiling water to come 
half way up its height. Simmer by the side of the fire 
for two or three hours. Pour it out, skim from the 
surface with a spoon any particles of fat that may be 
seen, and take away the remainder with a sheet of clean 
paper. Season agreeably, and the beef tea is ready. If 
more convenient, the jar can be set in a cool oven instead 
of being placed in a saucepan of water. 

Beef Tea. — (Another way of making it. ) Prepare the 
meat as in the last recipe, and pour cold salted water 
over it. Let it soak for an hour or two, turn it into a 
perfectly clean saucepan, place it on the fire, and just 
before it begins to simmer skim it once carefully ; put 
on the lid, and simmer for about a quarter of an hour. 
Strain through a coarse colander to keep back the meat 
only. When cold, remove the fat, and stir the broth 
before serving it. ''' 

Beef Tea Quickly Made. — Mince half a pound of the 
lean fibre of beef, and put it into a saucepan with half 
a pint of water. Let it come slowly to the boiling point, 
simmer for a few minutes (as long as can be allowed), 
season, strain, clear from fat, and serve. 

Beef Tea Slightly Thickened. — When the addition is 
allowed, beef tea may be thickened by having a little 



276 DIET AND COOKERY 

rice, barley, tapioca, or sago boiled with it. A tablespoon 
ful of any one of these grains may be allowed for each 
quart of tea. They should be well washed and drained, 
then cooked in the liquid from the beginning, that they 
may be completely incorporated therein. Sometimes beef 
tea is thickened with a little arrowroot or cornflour. 
Very coarse oatmeal that has been soaked in water over- 
night, and simmered in beef tea till it is reduced to 
jelly, is sometimes much liked by invalids. 

Beef Tea Flavoured, — Beef tea may be pleasantly 
flavoured by boiling in it a pinch of mixed herbs, a bay 
leaf or a little onion, carrot, turnip, or celery, and a few 
peppercorns. The roots should either be chopped small 
or be scraped to pulp, before being put into the broth. 

Beef Tea with Egg. — Pour a cupful of hot beef tea 
upon a beaten egg, and serve. 

Beef Juice. — In cases of exhaustion, the pure juice 
of meat is frequently administered. There are one or 
two ways of making it. It will not keep well ; there- 
fore a small quantity should be made at once. 

Take freshly-killed meat full of gravy, remove skin, 
fat, and gristle, and cut the lean part into thin strips. 
Put it into a bottle or jar, cover closely, set it in a 
saucepan of cold water, and heat gradually for an hour. 
At no time should the heat rise above 1G0° Fahr. Press 
the meat, strain out the juice and gravy, add a little salt, 
and serve. The liquid should be red and clear, not 
brown. Half a pound of fine beef should yield about 
four tablespoonfula of gravy. Beef that is lightly 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 277 

broiled before being cut up yields more gravy than can 
be obtained from raw beef. The meat when done 
should be pink throughout, not brown, and the heat 
should have penetrated to the centre. When cut it may 
be squeezed in a lemon squeezer. 

Another way of preparing beef juice or beef pulp 
is to mince it finely, put it into a basin, and pour a 
small quantity of cold water over it (half a pint of 
cold water to four ounces of minced beef) ; then pound it 
with a spoon till smooth. Let it stand a quarter of 
an hour, rub it through a wire sieve, add a little salt^ 
and serve. This may be flavoured to taste. 

To make beef juice with hydrochloric acid, take half 
a pound of good beef, free it from skin, fat, and gristle, 
and mince it finely. A satisfactory way of doing this is 
to pass it twice through a mincing machine. Put into a 
basin a cup of water and five drops of dilute hydrochloric 
acid. Stir the beef into this, and set it in a cool place. 
Strain, season, and serv^e cold. The hydrochloric acid 
for this purpose should be obtained *' chemically pure." 
The dilute solution may be made " by mixing it in the 
proportion of five and one-half fluid ounces to fourteen 
ounces of water," or, more conveniently, the dilute 
hydi'ochloric acid of the British Pharmacopoeia may be 
obtained from the chemist and used. ^ 

Various expedients are adopted to make beef juice 
look inviting, and to hide its raw taste from the patient. 
For these purposes tlie juice is served in a red glass, or 
coloured with a few drops of browning, and it is 



278 DIET AND OOOKEEY 

flavoured with Liebig's extract, a few drops of Harvey's 
sauce, or milk in which celery or onion has been boiled. 
It must be remembered that beef juice must be ad- 
ministered in spoonfuls, and that it may either be cold 
or warmed to a comfortable drinking, not sipping, 
temperature, say, 110° to 120" Fahr. If it is made 
too hot it will be spoilt ; if it boils it will curdle. But 
when it is to be warmed it should be put in a cup, and 
set in a saucepan of warm water on the fire, and allowed 
to heat gradually. In order to get the whole value of the 
meat, it is necessary either to convert the meat fibre into 
a pulp, as described above, by rubbing the meat through 
a fine wire sieve, after first mincing and then soaking 
it; or to predigest the meat by pancreatic or peptic 
ferments, directions for which are always given 
along with the ferment, to be obtained from the 
chemist. 

Mutton Broth. — Take one pound of neck of mutton 
as lean as can be procured, or lean meat from any other 
part of the animal may be taken. Cut away all fat, 
skin, and gristle, and divide the meat into small pieces, 
put it into a stewpan witli a quart of cold water, and 
simmer gently for three hours. Carefully remove the 
scum as it rises. Strain the broth, remove the fat 
first with a spoon, afterwards with paper; season, and 
serve hot. If there is time for the broth to go cold 
before being used, the fat can be more easily removed. 
To vary the flavour of mutton broth, a dessertspoonful 
of pearl barley or of rice (if allowed), a turnip, an onion, 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 279 

a little celery, a pinch of herbs, or a couple of bay 
leaves may be stewed with the meat. 

Veal Broth. — Cut a pound of knuckle of veal into 
small pieces, place these in a stewpan with three pints of 
water, and two tablespoonfuls of rice. Boil very gently 
for an hour and a half, or longer. If liked, to vary 
the taste, a few parsley leaves, a sprig of thyme and 
a lettuce leaf may be chopped small and simmered with 
the veal for five or six minutes — not longer, or the 
flavour will be spoilt — or a small blade of mace, a sprig 
or two of parsley, and one of thyme and marjoram, can 
be used. 

Chicken Broth. — Pluck a fowl, draw it carefully, and 
remove everything that is not quite dainty — all fat, for 
example, and skin, if the bird is fully grown. Remove 
the head and feet also, wash the bird well, and cut 
the flesh into neat pieces ; put these into a stewpan with 
rather less than two quarts of water. The liver and 
gizzard, after being carefully cleansed, may be cut into 
slices, and put with the rest. Simmer gently for two 
or three hours. Take out the pieces of fowl, and leave 
the broth until the next day. Take off the fat, and 
serve. Pepper and salt should be added by the nurse 
or invalid. If flavoured broth be desii^ed, three or four 
sticks of celery, a blade of mace, and a sliced onion may 
be stewed with the meat. 

The name of this drink, " chicken broth," is rather 
misleading, for a more nourishing broth can be obtained 
from a fully-grown fowl than from a young chicken. 



280 DIET AND COOKERY 

Chicken and Rice Broth. — Stir a tablespoonful of 
cooked rice (if allowed) and a beaten egg into a cupful of 
hot chicken broth. Stir over the fire for a minute, but 
do not let the sonp boil. 

Chicken Milk. — Clean a fowl carefully, cut it into 
small pieces, and break the bones. Put it into an 
enamelled saucepan with two or three peppercorns and a 
little salt, and the white part of a head of celery, barely 
cover it with cold water, bring it slowly to the boil, and 
simmer gently for four hours or more. Strain the 
broth into a bowl, and leave it till cold, when it should 
form a stiff clear jelly. Carefully remove the fat from 
the top by wiping this jelly with a napkin dipped 
into hot water and squeezed dry. Take equal quantities 
of the jelly and milk, put them into an enamelled pan, 
boil, skim, and serve. 

Chicken Broth made from Giblets. — For the sake of 
economy, chicken broth is frequently made from the 
giblets of the bird — that is, from the feet, throat, gizzard, 
and liver. When this is done the fowl can be cooked to 
make a separate dish, and excellent results can be 
obtained in this way. Cleanse the giblets thoroughly, 
and be particularly careful to skin the feet, first pouring 
boiling water over them, and letting them lie in it 
for about a minute to loosen the skin. Put the cleansed 
giblets into a small saucepan with a pint of cold water, 
adding, if approved, a sprig of parsley, a small onion, a 
slice of carrot, and a little celery. Simmer very gently 
for two hours, then strain for use. If approved, this 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 281 

broth may De flavoured with a tablespoonful of sherry and 
a squeeze of lemon juice, or it may have a teaspoonful of 
sago, rice, or tapioca boiled in it to give it consistency. 

Veal and Tapioca Broth. — Break into small pieces a 
pound of knuckle of veal or a calf's foot, and simmer in a 
•juart of water until the liquid is reduced by one half. 
Strain and skim. Turn it into a clean saucepan with a 
tablespoonful of soaked tapioca, and simmer for half an 
hour. Salt to taste. When the tapioca is clear, take it 
off the fire, add an Qgg lightly beaten and three table- 
spoonfuls of cream. Stir over the fire for a minute or 
two, long enough to set the egg, and ser^-e. The broth 
must not boil after the egg is put into it. 

N.B. — The several methods of treating beef in order 
to obtain the greatest amount of nourishment from the 
meat may each and all be applied to mutton, veal, 
chicken, or any other wholesome m«at. 

It is to be remembered that the only methods which 
ensure the whole value of the meat are those in which 
the pulp is prepared, or the meat is pre-digested by a 
suitable ferment. The ingenuity of the cook or nurse 
will show itself in covering any taste of rawness, or in 
rendeiing palatable what would else be insipid. On 
these points again consult the beef preparations. 

Oyster Broth. — Take six or eight fresh oysters, chop 
them small, put them with their liquor into an enamelled 
saucepan, pour over them a cupful of cold milk, and 
bring the liquid slowly to the point of boiling. Simmer 
for a minute or two, strain through a fine sieve, season 



282 DIET AND COOKERY 

with salt and wliite pepper, add a teaspoonful of cream, 
and serve. 

Sometimes, instead of broth, a little soup is required 
for the invalid. For these the following suggestions are 
given. 

Clear Soup is generally acceptable. The recipe for 
making it will be found on page 150. It is to be 
remembered that the recipe may be followed when a 
small quantity of soup only is needed, if all the ingre- 
dients are reduced in the same proportion. 

When preparing the vegetable soups for which re- 
cipes are here given, it should be remembered that if 
necessary the flour thickening can be omitted. In 
Diabetes, for example, this may be advisable. The 
flour is merely put in to make the soup smooth and 
bind the ingredients together. It is not indispensable. 

Celery Soup. — "Wash a single head of celery, and boil 
it in as much salted water or chicken broth as will cover 
it. When quite tender rub it tlirough a sieve. Mix a 
dessertspoonful of flour to a smooth paste with a little 
cold water, and pour on it three-quarters of a pint of hot 
milk. Season with pepper and salt, add the celery pulp, 
and a quarter of a pint of cream. Boil up once and 
serve. This soup may be flavoured with nutmeg. 

Artichoke Soup is made in the same way. Half a 
bay leaf, and a little lean ham, or the bone of a rasher 
should be boiled with the artichokes. 

Asparagus Soup is also made in the same way. The 
points of the asparagus should be cut off" and put aside, 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. ' 283 

then thrown into the soup and boiled till tender, just 
before serving. 

Onion Soup. — Boil a large onion with two ounces of 
stale crumb of bread. Cook till the onion is tender. 
Rub the whole through a sieve, add a pint of hot milk, 
season with pepper and salt, and serve. Onions are to 
be used with caution for invalids ; sometimes they are 
beneficial, sometimes they hinder digestion ; but in this 
soup they are likely to be as little harmful as can be 
expected. 

Bice Cream Soup. — Wash two tablespoonfuls of 
Carolina rice, and then boil it gently in a pint of stock 
for about two hours, or till quite soft. A short time 
before it is done, put a slice of onion and a stick of 
celery into a pint of milk, and simmer. When the milk 
is pleasantly flavoured pour it over the rice, press the 
whole through a sieve, and add pepper and salt. Make 
the soup hot, stir a gill of scalded cream into it, and 
serve. 

Tapioca Cream Soup. — Follow the above recipe, but 
substitute pearl tapioca that has been soaked overnight 
for the rice. 

Vegetable Soup. — Take some cauliflower, asparagus, 
peas, or any vegetable that may be preferred, and cook 
it in the ordinary way. Drain it, put it in a sauce- 
pan and cover it well with milk. Let it simmer for a 
quarter of an hour, rub it through a sieve, season with 
salt and pepper, and serve. 

Apple Soup. — Boil any quantity of apple in water 



284 DIET AND COOKERY 

kill quite soft, and crush it to pulp. For each half pint 
of water used allow a teaspoonful of corn-flour; mix it to 
a smooth paste with cold water, and add as much sugar, 
salt, and powdered cinnamon as will flavour the soup 
agreeably. Stir the paste into the apple, boil five 
minutes, and serve hot. 

It is most important that soups and broths should 
never be sent to an invalid with globules of grease 
floating on the surface. It is generally easy to remove 
fat from broth by skimming. If the liquid is allowed 
to go cold, the fat can be skimmed off" with a spoon ; and 
should small particles still remain, pieces of thin white 
paper should be laid for a couple of seconds on the sur- 
face of the broth, and to these the grease will adhere. 
As the pieces of paper one after another become charged 
with grease, fresh pieces should be used until no more 
grease remains. When broth is hot, the grease may be 
made to rise quickly by plunging the vessel which con- 
tains it into cold water for a few minutes. 

Milk is a food of great value in sickness (see p. 24). 
When it does not digest readily, it is often necessary to 
dilute it with whey or lime water. When it is desirable 
to add to its stimulating qualities, a little good beef tea 
may be put with it. 

TFAe?/.— Put a pint of milk into a saucepan, warm it 
to a little more than blood heat, or 100° Fahr. ; then 
put with it two teaspoonfuls of essence of rennet, 
and set it in a warm place till the milk is set. Put the 
saucepan on the fire, and boil the milk again ; the curd 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 285 

will then harden and shrink, and can be removed with a 
spoon. 

Whey can also be made by boiling a pint of milk 
with a teaspoonful or two of lemon juice or vinegar, 
or with a glass of sherry. The curd can then be 
separated from the whey by straining. 

Lime water can be bought at the druggists'. 

jellip:s. 

Jellies may be regarded as liquid foods, because they 
melt when put into the mouth. They are often very 
acceptable to invalids. 

Many people have an idea that although it may be 
allowable to make jelly of gelatine for table use, it is 
necessary to stew down calf's feet when making jelly 
for an invalid. This involves an expenditure both of 
time and trouble, and it is not an advantage if only the 
gelatine that is used is pure. Gelatine is always of 
animal origin, and it simply affords a medium for the 
presentation of food in an acceptable form. Its value 
depends more ujjon what is put with it, than upon the 
material itself. The following dishes are therefore made 
with gelatine. 

Jelly for invalids should never be made hard and 
very stiff. Though firm, it should be tender and soft so 
that it will dissolve quickly. 

Beef Jelly. — Prepare beef tea or beef juice in the 
usual way, and either boil with it a pound of knuckle 



286 DIET AND GOOKERY 

of veal, chopped, or add a teaspoonful of soaked gelatine 
to each quarter of a pint of tea. The gelatine should 
be boiled until dissolved, and stirred into the beef tea, 
which may then be left till firm. 

Chicken Jelly is made of chicken broth, made firm 
with gelatine. 

Wine Jelly, — Soak a tablespoonful of gelatine in a 
tablespoonful of cold water for an hour. Simmer a 
clove and a small piece of stick cinnamon about the 
size of a clove in half a pint of water till the liquid is 
well flavoured, then take out the spices, bring the water 
to the boil, and put in the soaked gelatine. Boil and 
skim well. Add sugar and sherry to taste, or, if ap- 
proved, sherry and a small quantity of brandy may be 
used. Strain the jelly through a fine napkin, and when 
cool mould it in china, and set it in a cool place till firm. 
Sometimes the juice of half a lemon is substituted for 
the spice in this recipe. As jelly does not keep well, it 
is advisable not to make much at once. 

Citric Acid Jelly. — Soak half an ounce of gelatine in 
a gill of water for an hour. Boil three ounces of loaf- 
sugar in half a pint of water, and remove the scum as it 
rises. Put in the soaked gelatine, and boil for five 
minutes, again removing the scum. Pour the liquid 
into a basin, stir in it until dissolved the eighth of an 
ounce of lump citric acid, skim again, add a glass of 
sherry, and mould it when it is quite cold and beginning 
to set. 

Iceland Moss Jelly. — "Wash an ounce of Iceland 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 287 

moss in cold water, and soak it all night in as much 
water as will freely cover it, and to which has been 
added a small pinch of carbonate of soda. This will 
tend to take away the unpleasantly bitter taste. Take the 
moss out of the soda and water, and squeeze it dry, and 
boil it gently in a quart of water for five hours or more 
until the liquid is reduced to a pint. Strain it, sweeten, 
and flavour it with sugar, lemon juice, and wine, and 
mould when beginning to get firm. Iceland moss jelly is 
often made with milk instead of water. 

Irish Moss Jelly. — Follow the above recipe exactly. 
Iceland moss jelly, and Irish moss jelly, and ivory 
dust jelly, the recipe for making which is below, 
are often ordered for people sufiering from lung 
diseases. 

Ivory Dust Jelly.— Buy half a pound of ivory dust 
from the druggist. Stir it into two quarts of water, and 
boil it gently all day, until the liquid part is reduced 
to one pint. Pour it into a basin, and let it get cold ; 
take up the jelly part, leaving the sediment behind ; 
flavour and clarify in the usual way, and mould when 
the jelly is beginning to set. 

It is, perhaps, scarcely necessary to say that to 
cla^fy jelly we allow one egg for each pint of liquid j 
beat up the whi/^ and the crushed shell, stir it into 
the melted stock, and whisk over the fire until the jelly 
rises in the pan, draw it back, and let it stand a few 
minutes; then pass it through a jelly-bag or napkin, 
disturbing the crust as little as possible. 



DIET AND COOKERY 



Hartshorn Jelly. — Follow the recipe given for ivory 
dust jelly. 

Lemon Jelly. — Soak a tal)leRpoonful of gelatine in 
water to cover it for an hour. Put it into a saucepan 
with half a pint of boiling water, stir it until melted, 
and add the strained juice of a large lemon, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, and a tablespoonful of brandy. Boil 
a few minutes, and remove the scum as it rises. The 
precise quantity of lemon juice and sugar used must 
depend on the taste of the patient. 

If it is thought desirable to have the jelly bright 
and clear, it must be clarified. {See Ivory Dust Jelly.) 
The lemon juice will, however, clarify it to some extent, 
and the removal of the scum will assist the process. 

Orange Jelly. — Follow the above recipe, but instead 
of using half a pint of boiling water, iise a tablespoonful 
of lemon juice, six tablespoonfuls of orange juice, water 
to fill the half-pint measure, and sugar to taste. 

Coffee Jelly. — Soak half an ounce of gelatine in half 
a pint of water for an hour, dissolve, and add a breakfast- 
cupful of strong, clear cofiee. Sweeten to taste, mould, 
add a little cognac if liked, and serve when firm. 

Tea Jelly. — Follow the recipe for cofiee jelly, su1> 
stituting strong freshly made tea for cofiee. Tea and 
coffee jellies would not be nourishing, they would he 
simply reviving, and might serve to stimulate tiio 
appetite ; invalids frequently like them very much. Tlioy 
are more nourishing when made with milk instead of 
water, and they are sometimes enriched by the addition 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 289 

of a little cream. Whipped cream may also be served 
with them. 

Fresh Fruit Jelly. — Draw out and sweeten agreeably 
the juice of any kind of fruit. Add the juice of a 
lemon and half an ounce of soaked and dissolved gelatine 
for each tumblerful of juice. 

Tapioca Jelly. — Soak half a cupful of pearl tapioca in 
two cupfuls of water overnight. Turn into a double 
saucepan, or put in a jar, and set in a saucepan of water, 
and cook gently till clear. Add sugar to taste, and 
a little more water if too thick, and when taken off 
the fire, strain in the juice of a lemon and a little wine, 
if approved. Serve cold with milk or cream. 

Arrowroot Jelly. — Mix two teaspoonfuls of Bermuda 
arrowroot to a smooth paste with cold water ; stir into it 
half a pint of boiling water, and boil for three or four 
minutes. Sweeten agreeably, flavour with lemon juice, 
and serve cold. 

Arrowroot Blancmange. — Follow the above recipe, 
but substitute milk for the water. 

Tapioca Custard. — Soak half a cupful of pearl 
tapioca overnight in slightly salted water that will barely 
cover it. Next day turn into a double saucepan with 
two cups of milk, and cook gently, stirring frequently. 
When the tapioca is clear and quite tender, pour the 
preparation upon the yolks of two eggs which have been 
beaten with two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Mix 
well, then stir over the fire for a minute or two to cook 
the eggs. Turn into tumblers, and serve cold. 



290 DIET AND COOKERY 

Tajnoca Cream. — Stew a tablespoonful of small 
tapioca in half a pint of milk, sweeten and flavour 
with cinnamon, and set away to cool. Just before 
serving add a gill of cream which has been whipped till 
firm, and a tablespoonful of brandy if approved. 

Blancmange. — See p. 207. 

GRUELS. 

Gruels are cooked mixtures of grain, or preparations 
of grain and water. After cooking, milk (sometimes 
wine) and various flavour ers are added, but these extra 
ingredients should not be introduced until thorough 
cooking in water has first taken place, and the gruel 
should not be allowed again to reach the boiling point 
after milk, cream, or wine have been mixed with it. 

Superior Gruel. — Take half a teacupful of coarse 
Scotch oatmeal, mix it smoothly with about a pint and a 
half of water, pour it into a saucepan, and set it by 
the side of the fire to cook gently for a considerable 
time, three or four hours. Stir it briskly from time 
to time, and add a little water now and again if it 
becomes very thick. When done, rub it patiently through 
a hair sieve, and do not use portions that will not 
go through. Boil it, mix an equal measure of boiling 
milk and a little cream with it, and serve. Sugar 
and flavouring can be added at discretion. It is to 
be remembered that though a little sugar much improves 
the taste of gruel, very sweet gruel is disliked by nearly 
all sick people. 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 291 

Plai7i Gruel. — Put a pint of water on the fire to 
boil. Mix one tablespoonful of the best patent groats to 
a smooth paste with cold water. When the water on 
the fire is quite boiling, stir the paste into it, and con- 
tinue to stir it for ten minutes. Season, and the gruel 
will then be ready for use. 

Another Way. — Mix a tablespoonful of oatmeal to 
a smooth paste with cold water, add gradually a pint of 
boiling water, and boil for a quarter of an hour, or 
longer if there is time, stirring well to prevent the 
formation of lumps. Strain, season with salt or sugar, 
and add cream, wine or brandy, or the yolk of an egg if 
approved, and serve. 

Another Way. — Put a cupful of oatmeal into a basin, 
and pour cold water over it to cover it. Stir it well, 
let it stand a few minutes, and pour off the thin liquid 
into a saucepan, leaving the sediment behind. Cover 
again with cold water, and repeat the above process 
two or three times until the water is no longer charged 
with meal. Boil the liquid for half an hour longer, 
season, and for every cupful allow half a cupful of cream. 
When pouring off the liquid it will, of course, be 
necessary to be careful lest any of the rough parts of the 
meal should escape into the saucepan. 

Barley Gruel. — Barley is a nutritious grain, and a 
drink made from it is in some cases very acceptable. 
Gruel may be made both from whole barley and froDo 
barley flour. 

To make it from pearl barley, take two ounces of the 



292 DIET AND COOKERY 

barley, wash it well in one or two waters, and boil 
it gently in a quart of water for about two hours, or 
until the liquid is reduced by half. Strain it, and put it 
in a cool place. When wanted, season or sweeten it, 
and mix cream, milk, port wine, lemon juice, or flavour- 
ing with a small quantity only of the gruel. Barley 
gruel does not keep well, therefore it is a mistake to 
prepare much of it at one time. 

To make barley gruel from barley flour, mix a table- 
spoonful of the prepared meal to a smooth paste with a 
small quantity of cold water, pour on a pint of boiling 
water, boil for ten minutes, strain, flavour, and serve 
very hot. 

Barley Water. — Wash two ounces of barley, or, 
better still, boil it for a few minutes to cleanse it, and 
pour the water away ; then simmer it gently in three 
pints of water for an hour or rather less. When half 
done put into it a piece of lemon peel and a little sugar. 
Strain, and it is ready for use. 

Arroivroot. — Mix a dessertspoonful of Bermuda 
arrowroot to a smooth paste with cold water, pour on 
half a pint of boiling water or boiling milk, and stir 
it well. Put the preparation into a saucepan, stir till it 
is on the point of boiling ; sweeten, flavour, and serve. 
Arrowroot may be flavoured with lemon rind or juice, 
nutmeg, cinnamon, wine, etc. 

Rice Caudle. — Mix a tablespoonful of ground rice to 
a smooth paste with cold water, add a pint of boiling 
water, and boil for a quarter of an hour, stirring well. 
JSvv^eeten or season, flavour, and serve. 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS, 293 



DRINKS. 

Water. — In many illnesses cold water is allowed to 
be used freely as a drink. It should, however, invariably 
be boiled and allowed to go cold before being diiink, and 
as boiling renders it somewhat "flat" and tasteless, it 
should, after boiling, be passed through a good filter 
which is well cleansed and recharged at stated periods 
(otherwise filters are quite useles.s), as this will aerate it 
again to some extent. To keep water cold in a sick 
room, put it in a stone jug, and wrap the vessel in a cloth 
kept constantly wet. Drinks for the sick are almost 
always most valuable when cool, rather than icy cold. 

Toast Water. — This simple beverage is rarely well 
made. Take a slice of stale bread (crust is to be pre- 
ferred, as the crumb will sooner turn sour), and toast it 
slowly all through without burning it. Let it go cold, 
then pour over it a quart of boiling water, and let it 
stand covered till cold. Strain it through muslin before 
serving it. 

Toast Water and Cream. — Mix a tablespoonful of 
cream with half a tumbler of toast water. Add a 
little sugar, and serve cold. 

Rice Water. — Wash two tablespoonf ills of rice, let it 
boil with a pint of water for ten minutes. Strain it 
off, and add a little more water, and repeat until there is 
no more goodness in the rice. If liked, an inch of stick 
cinnamon or a piece of ginger may be boiled with the 
rice, or a little salt may be added. A spoonful of sherry 



294 DIET AND COOKERY 

or port may be mixed with the rice water if the patient 
may take or needs stimulants. 

Lemonade. — Lemonade is the one beverage that is 
more popular with invalids than any other, yet it varies 
very much in quality. This is partly explained by the 
fact that some lemons are much juicier than others; 
therefore the cook in making it must, to some extent, be 
guided by her own judgment. For superior lemonade, 
it may be calculated that when lemons are large and 
juicy three lemons will be needed for a pint of water ; 
when lemons are small or not juicy, four lemons will 
not be too much. The quantity of sugar employed must 
depend upon taste. In average cases, for lemons of 
moderate acidity, an ounce of sugar will probably be 
required for each lemon used. It is to be remembered 
also that though lemonade is frequently made with cold 
water, it has a better flavour when boiling water is used 
for it. When soaking the rind for the sake of its 
flavour, it should not be forgotten that the minutest 
portion of white pith, and also the pips, are likely to 
impart bitterness if allowed to remain. Many cooks do 
not seem able to realise that thin lemon rind ought to be 
so thin that it can almost be seen through. 

When the quantity of lemons named is considered 
unnecessary, the following recipe may be used : — Pare 
off the yellow rind of a fresh lemon, and be careful 
not to take any of the white pith, as it would make the 
lemonade bitter. Put the thin rind into a jug with the 
strained juice of two lemons and about an ounce of loaf- 



FOR COMMON AILMENTS. 295 

sugar. Pour over all a pint and a half of boiling water, 
and let the liquid stand till cold. Strain and serve. To 
make lemonade look inviting, nurses sometimes cut a 
very thin slice from the middle of the lemon before 
squeezing it, and when it has become cold serve it in 
a tumbler with the slice of lemon floating on the top. 

A plainer lemonade, which ought, perhaps, to be 
named lemon drink rather than lemonade, may be 
made thus : — Peel thinly a large juicy lemon, and let the 
rind soak in water to cover it for an hour. Strain 
it, add the clear juice of the fruit and a pint and a half 
of boiling water. Strain when cold, and serve. 

Lemonade made with barley water or with rice water 
is occasionally much liked. 

Milk Lemonade. — Put a tablespoonful of loaf-sugar, 
two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, and two tablespoonful s 
of sherry into a bowl, and pour on a cupful of boiling 
water. Stir till the sugar is dissolved, add half a pint of 
cold milk, and stir again till the milk curdles. Strain 
for use. 

Apple Water. — Slice without peeling a pound of 
a}>ples, and boil in a quart of water till the fruit is soft. 
Strain through muslin, sweeten to taste, and serve when 
cold. 

MUk and Soda Water. — Fill a glass half full of milk 
with soda water. Use at once. 

Fruit Juice and Soda Water. — Express the juice from 
any sort of ripe, sound, fresh fruit, such as strawberries, 
raspberries, currants, oranges, apricots, peaches, apples, 



296 DIET AND COOKERY 

etc. The best way to do this is to put the fruit in a jar 
with a closely-fitting lid, set the jar in a saucepan with 
boiling water round it, and let it stew till the juice flows 
freely. The firmer fruits will need to have a little water 
stewed with them. A little sugar should be added to 
the juice according to its acidity. When the fruit is 
melted, drain the juice from it without squeezing it ; put 
about two tablespoonfuls of the syrup into a tumbler, 
and fill the vessel with soda water. If a couple of table- 
spoonfuls of cream may be used as well as the fruit, 
a delicious drink will be produced. 

Coffee and Soda Water. — Strong coffee mixed with 
cream and soda water is occasionally liked by invalids. 

EGG DRINKS. 

Egg Beaten up with Brandy, Wine, or Milk. — Break 
an egg and take out the speck. Put with it a dessert- 
spoonful of white sugar and a pinch of salt, and beat 
it until well mixed, but not long enough to make the 
QgQ frothy. Add a cup of slightly warm milk and one 
or two tablespoonfuls of brandy, or two tablespoonfuls of 
sherry without the milk. Strain into a soda-water glass, 
and serve immediately. 

Mulled Wine and Egg. — Put a gill of water, one 
clove, and a piece of stick cinnamon the size of a thumb- 
nail into a saucepan, and boil for ten minutes. Add 
a gill of wine, and let the mixture barely reach the 
boiling point. Have ready an egg beaten with a table- 
spoonful of white sugar. Pour the boiling liquid gently 



FOB COMMON AILMENTS. 297 

into the egg, and stir well. The preparation should be 
of the consistency of cream. In very cold weather it 
may need to be put on the fire for another minute 
to finish cookinfj the egfSf. 

White of Egg and Milk. — (Sometimes valuable in 
diarrhoea.) Beat the white of an egg, and mix with it a 
tumbler of milk, a teaspoonful of brandy, and half a 
tumblerful of soda-water. 

Egg Lemonade, — Shake together in a bottle the white 
of an egg, a tumblerful of cold water, the juice of half a 
small lemon, and a teaspoonful of white sugar. Or beat a 
whole egg lightly, and add a tumblerful of strong sweet 
lemonade. 

Egg Soup.—Be&X, an egg lightly, and stir it into a 
breakfast cupful of hot broth of any kind. Season with 
pepper and salt. 

Egg Gruel. — Beat an egg, add pepper and salt, and 
pour on, stirring briskly, a teacupful of boiling water. 

Egg Cordial. — Beat the white of an egg to a froth, 
add a tablespoonful of cream and a tablespoonful of 
brandy. Mix thoroughly. 

Egg Drink. — (This drink has often been found ac- 
ceptaV>le in cases of dryness of the throat.) Mix a table- 
sjjoonful of the best arrowroot to a smooth paste with 
cold water. Add two tablespoonfuls of white sugar and 
the whites of two eggs which have been whisked with a 
little water. Add boiling water to make up the quan- 
tity to there pints, boil up once quickly, and stir whilst 
boiling. 



298 DIET AND COOKERY. 

Detiime^s Solution of White of Egg. — (Specially use- 
ful in many children's illnesses.) The whites of two 
eggs dissolved in, or diffused through, one and a half 
pints of water sweetened to taste. Cognac may be 
added to this according to the physician's prescription. 
Without the cognac the solution will be drunk as, and 
mistaken for, sweetened water. 



THE END. 



INDEX 



Adults, Milk for, 54 
Age and Food, 52 
Aged, Food for, 55 
Alcohol, 3, 56, 57 
Ale, 61 

Almonds, Salted, 116 
Almond Biscuits, 111 

Cakes, 110 

AmLer Pudding, 191 
Anaemia, Rules of Diet for, 197 

, Dietary Tables for, 201 

Appetite, 22 

Apple, 49, 50 

, Baked, 89, 162 

Charlotte, 215 

, Compote, 251 

Mould, 140 

Sauce, 185 

Snow, 155 

Soup, 283 

, Stewed, 127 

Water, 295 

Apricots, Stewed, 127 

with Rice, 171 

Arrowroot, 292 

Blancmange, 289 

Jelly, 289 

Thinned Milk, 233 

Artichokes, Jerusalem, 164 
Artichoke Soup, 282 
Articles of Diet, 63 
Asparagus, 97, 282 



Ass's Milk, 27 

Asthma, Rules of Diet for, 272 

B. 

Bacon, Chicken Livers and, 20f 

, Rashers of, 129 

, Value of, as Food, 75 

with Kidneys, 183 

Baking, 47 

Barley Gruel, 291 

Water, 292 

Batter Puddings, 186 
Beans, French, 236 
Beef, 45 

CoUops, Minced, 139 

, Fillet of, Saute, 87 

Jelly, 285 

Juice, 276 

Steak, Broiled, 204 

Stew, 167 

Tea, Flavoured, 35, 276 

Tea and Milk, 32 

Tea, Various Ways of 

Making, 274, et seq.' 

Tea, Varieties of, 32 

Biliousness, Rules of Dieting for, 

238 
Birds as Food, 43 
Birds' Nest Pudding, 129 
Biscuits, Almond, 111 
Blancmange, 137, 207, 289 



300 



INDEX. 



Blanche Sauce, 153 
Boiling, 46 

Brains, Value of, as Food, 74 
Bran Bread, 107 

Cakes, 109 

Brandy and Egg, 296 

and Milk, 26 

Bread, 50 

, Bran, 107 

, Brown, 51 

, Diabetic, 106 

, Gluten, 106 

Pudding, 265 

Sauce, 265 

, Stale, Digestibility of, 50 

, Whole Meal, 51 

Bright's Disease, Dietary Tables 
for, 259 

Bright's Disease, Rules of Diet- 
ing for, 254 

Broccoli, 128 

Bronchitis, Rules of Dieting for, 
270 

Broth, 30 

, Chicken, 279, 280 

, , and Rice, 280 

, Mutton, 278 

, Oyster, 281 

, Veal, 279 

, , and Tapioca, 281 

Brown Sauce, 189 

Butter a la Maitre d'H6tel, 253 

Buttered Eggs, ld6 



C. 

Cabbage with Partridge, 113 
Cabinet Pudding, 164 
Cakes, Almond, 110 

, Bran, 109 

, Sponge, 61 

Calf's Feet, 74 
Foot Jellies, 35 



Calf's Head, 74 
Caudle Rice, 292 
Cauliflower in Sprigs, 88 
Celery, Boiled, 234 

, Fried, 88 

Soup, 250, 282 

Chicken and Rice, 280 

Boiled, 130 

, Broiled, 168 

Broth, 279 

, , fi-om Giblets, 280 

, , with Rice, 280 

, Fricassee of, 170 

Fried with Chives, 96 

JeUy, 286 

Livers and Bacon, 209 

, Marengo of, 152 

Milk, 280 

Roast, 264 

Children's Food, 53, 54 
Childi-en with Chest Delicacy, 

Food for, 54 
Chocolate, 125 

Pudding, 195 

Chop, Broiled, 10-3 
Citric Acid JeUy, 286 
Clear Soup, 150, 282 

, with Poached Eggs, 112 

Cocoa, 42 

Made from Nibs, 124 

from Prepared Powder, 125 

Coffee, 42, 89 

Jelly, 288 

, Soda Water and, 296 

,Various Ways of Making, 92 

Collops, Beef, 139 

, Mutton, with Tomatoes, 191 

Compote of Apple, 251 
Condiments, 49 [246 

Constipation, Dietary Rules for, 

, Dietary for, 248 [176 

Consumption, Rules of Diet for, 
, Dietary Tables for, 180 



INDEX. 



301 



Cream, Rice, 203 

, Tapioca, 261 

, Toast, 192 

Croutons for Soup, 187 
Cup Custard, 235 
Custard Sauce, 196 

, Savoury, 112 

, Tapioca, 289 

Cutlet, Mutton, with Eeforme 

Sauce, 187 
, Veal, a la Talleyrand, 115 



D. 



Demme's Solution of Egg, 37, 298 
Devonshire Junket, 141 
Diabetes, Dietary Tables for, 101 

, Rules of Diet for, 99 

Diabetic Bread, 106 

Diarrhoea, Dietary Rules for, 244 

Diet, Articles of, 63 

Diet, Kinds of, 21 

Digestion, 1-5 

Digestion, Imperfect, 13 

Drinks, 293 

, Egg, 296 

Duchess Potatoes, 265 

Ducks, 71 

Dyspepsia, Dietary Rules for, 224 

, Tables for, 231 



E. 

Egg, 36, 53 

and Brandy, Wine or Milk, 

296 

■ and Tomato on Toast, 84 

and Wine, Mulled, 296 

, Boiled, 209 

, Buttered, 165 

, Cordial, 297 



Egg, Demme's Solution of, 37, 

298 

Drink, 296-7 

Flip, 38 

Gruel, 297 

Lemonade, 297 

Ox Eyes, 146 

, Poached, with Clear Soup, 

112 

, Savoury, 184 

Soup, 297 

, White of, and Milk, 297 

Extracts of Meat, 34 



F. 

Fever, Dietary Rules for, 220 
Fish, 41 

Haddock, 93, 126, 234 

Halibut, 213 

Herrings, 161, 263 

Lobsters, 70 

Mussels, 70 

Oysters, 41, 70, 94, 281 

Plaice, 114, 138 

Sardines, 166, 252 

SheU Fish, 70 

SHps, 261 

Sole, 86, 130, 136, 163, 193 

Turbot, 155 

, Boiled, Digcstibihty of, 41 

, Broiled, , 42 

, Fried, , 42 

Roe, 70 

, Salted, 70 

Sauce, Simple, 214 

, Smoked, 70 

Flour, Wheaten, 51 
Fluid Meats, 34 
Food and Age, 52 

and Digestion, 1 

Groups, 1 



802 



INDEX. 



Food for Children, 63 

for Children with Chest 

Delicacy, 54 

for the Aged, 55 

and Stimulants, 59 

Forms, Best for Health, 4 

, Quantities of, Necessary for 

Health, 4 
Foods, Classification of, 64, et seq. 

, Liquid, 274 

Fowl, 43 

, Boiled {See also Chicken), 

130 
Fruit, 47-9 

Almonds, 116 

Apples, 89, 127, 140, 155, 162, 
185, 216, 251, 283, 295 

Apricots, 127, 171 

Lemon, 153, 165, 237, 288, 294, 
297 

Nuts, 60 

Orange, 288 

Prunes, 166 

Peaches, 127 

Pears, 235 

Raspberry, 98 

Rhubarb, 203 
Fruit JeUy, Fresh, 289 

Juice and Soda Water, 295 

Sauce, 266 

, Stewed, 261 

, Stone, 49 



G 

Gallstones, 239 

Game, 43, 113, 128, 236, 263 

Gastric Juice, Function of, 8-10 

Gelatine, Value of, 31 

German Sauce, 165 

Gluten Bread, 106 

Goat's Milk, 27 



Gout, Rheumatic, Dietary Rules 

for, 158 

, Tables for, 160 

Gouty Habit, Dietary Rules for, 

117 

, Tables for, 122 

Gravel and Stone, Dietary Rules 

for, 133 

, Tables for, 134 

Greens, 140 

Grenadines of Veal, 194 
Gruel, 290 

, Barley, 292 

, Egg, 297 

, Oatmeal, 290 



H. 

Haddock, Fillets of, 93 
— , Flaked, 234 

, Plainly Boiled, 126 

Halibut, BoQed, 213 

Hare, Value of as Food, 74 

Haricot Soup, 186 

Hartshorn Jelly, 288 

Heart Disease, Dietary Rules for, 

267 
Heart as Food, LidigestibiHty of, 

73 
Herrings, Fresh, Baked, 161 

, Boiled, 263 

Hydropathic Pudding, 132 



Iceland Moss Jelly, 286 
Indigestible Foods, 71 
Indigestion, Causes of, 15 
Infancy, Food for, 52, 63 
Intervals between Meals, 20 
Irish Moss Jelly, 287 
Ivory Dust Jelly, 287 



INDEX. 



303 



J. 

Jellies, 285 

Jelly, Arrowroot, 289 

, Beef, 285 

, Calf's Foot, 36 

, Chicken, 286 

, Citric Acid, 286 

, Coffee, 288 

, Fresh Fruit, 289 

, Hartshorn, 288 

, Iceland Moss, 286 

, Irish Moss, 287 

, Ivory Dust, 287 

, Lemoo, 237, 288 

, Meat, 35 

, Orange, 288 

, Baspberry, 98 

, Savoury, 116 

, Tapioca, 289 

, Tea, 288 

, Wine, 286 

Jxilienne Soup, 150 
Junket, Devonshire, 141 

K. 

Kidneys and Bacon, 183 

and Mushroom, 114 

, Yalue of as Food, 73 

Koxuniss, 25, 28 

L. 

Lamb, 45 

, Value of, 72 

Ladywell Pudding, 157 
Lemon JeUy, 237, 288 

Eice Pudding, 153 

Sauce, 165 

Lemonade, 294 

and Egg, 297 

and Milk, 295 

Lettuce, 48 
Lime Water, 286 



Lime Water and Milk, 26 

Liquid Foods, 274 

Liver as Food, Value of, 73 

, Torpid or Sluggish, Dietary 

Eules for, 241 
Livers, Chicken and Bacon, 209 
Lobsters, 70 



M. 

Maitre d'H6tel Butter, 253 

Sauce, 194 

Malt Liquor, Limitation of 

Quantity, 61 
Marrow, Vegetable, 47 

Saute, 190 

Soup, 130 

with Savoury Mince, 111 

Mastication, 6, 8 

Meals, Intervals between, 20 

, Number of, 20 

Meat Broths, 30 

, Cured, Value of, 46 

Extracts, 34 

, Fluid, 34 

Jellies, 35 

Juices, 34 

Meats — 

Bacon, 75, 129, 183, 209 

Beef, 32, 35, 45, 87, 139, 167, 
204, 274, 276, 285 

Lamb, 45, 72 

Mutton, 45, 72, 105, 156, 163, 
187, 191, 202, 214, 278 

Pork, 45, 73 

Veal, 45, 72, 116, 194, 279, 281 

Venison, 46, 74 

, Peptonised, 33 

, Salted, 46, 75 

Milk, 24, 284 

and Beef Tea, 32 

and Lime-water, 26 



304 



INDEX. 



Milk, Arrowroot Thinned, 233 

, Ass's, 27 

and Brandy, 26 

and Chicken, 280 

, Composition of, 25 

, Dilution of, 26 

• for Adults, 54 

, Goats', 27 

, to Render Digestible, 26 

, Human, 27 

and Lemonade, 295 

, Nutrition in, 29 

, Peptonisation of, 27 

Puddings, 40, 42, 53 

, Quantity for Children, 53 

Soup, 262 

and Soda, 295 

, Super-added, 29 

, Thickened, 263 

and White of Egg, 297 

— , Whole, 28 

Mince, Savoury, with Vegetables, 

111 
Muflins, Oatmeal, 252 
Mushroom Sauce, 131 
Mushrooms and Kidneys, 114 

, Stewed, 135 

Mussels, ludigostibility of, 70 
Mutton, 45, 72 

, Boiled, 214 

, Braised, 163 

Broth, 278 

Chop, Broiled, 105 

Collops with Tomatoes, 101 

Cutlet, 187 

■ , Loin of, Boned and Rolled, 

156 

, Stewed, with Vegetables, 

202 

N. 

Nervous Prostration, Nerves, 
Neurasthouia, Dietary Rules 
for, 217 



Number of Meals, 20 
Nutrition in Milk, 29 
Nuts, 50 



O. 

Oatmeal Gruel, 290 

• Muffins, 252 

Obesity, Diet Tables for, SO 

, Dietarj' Rules for, 76 

Omelet, 154 
Omelette Souflice, 95 
Onion Sauce, 117 

Soup, 283 

Onions Boiled, Spanish, 253 
Orange Jelly, 288 
Oyster Broth, 281 
Oysters, 41, 7<), 94 
Ox Eyes (Eggs), 146 
Ox Tail Soup, 167 



P. 

Palatability of Food, 4 

Pancakes, 51 

Partridge Braised with Cabbage, 

113 
Pastry Unwholesome, 51 
Peaches, Stewed, 127 
Pears, Baked, 235 
Peptonization of Milk, 27 
Peptonized jMeats, 33 
Pheasant, 263 
Pigeons, Roasted, 236 
Piquant Sauce, 87 
Plaice, Baked, lU 

, Filleted, 138 

Pork, 45, 73 
Porridge, 181 
Potato Cakes, 195 



INDEX. 



305 



Potato Plugs, 207 

Puff, 170 

Snow, 190 

Souffl<^es, 207 

Potatoes, 48, 53, 148 

k la Duchesse, 265 

, Baked, 150 

■ , Browned, 157 

, Fried, 205 

, Maslied, 263 

, New, Boiled, 149 

, Old, BoHed, 148 

, Roasted, 149 

, Steamed, 149 

Poultry — 

Chicken, 96, 152, 168, 170, 209, 
264, 279, 280, 286 

Fowl, 43, 130 
Princesse Pudding, 192 
Primes, Stewed, and Crearn, 

166 
Ptarmigan, 128 
Pudding, Amber, 191 

, Apple, Chai-lotte, 215 

, Apple, Mould, 140 

, Apple Snow, 155 

, Batter, 51, 186 

, Bird's Nest, 129 

, Bread, -n-ith Fruit Sauce, 

265 

, Cabinet, 164 

, Chocolate, 195 

, Cup Ciistard, 235 

, Hydropathic, 132 

, Ladywell, 157 

, Lemon Rice, 153 

, Little Batters, 186 

, Princesse, 192 

, Rice Creamed, 203 

, Rice, Milky, 212 

, Rice, Plain, 126 

— — , Rico, with Apricots, 171 
— — , Sago shape, 139 



a 

Quantities of Food Necessai-y for 
Health, 4 

R 

Rabbit, Value of, as Food, 75 
Raspberry Jelly, 98 
Reforme Sauce, 189 
Rlieiunatic Gout, Dietary Rules 

for, 158 

, Tables for, 160 

Rheumatism, Dietary Rules for, 

142 

, Tables for, 145 

Rhubarb, Stewed, 203 
Rice as Vegetable, 139 

and Chicken Broth, 280 

Caudle, 292 

, Creamed, 203 

Cream Soup, 283 

, Milky, Pudding, 212 

Pudding, Plain, 126 

, Savoury, 185 

with Apricots, 171 

Water, 293 

Rickets, Dietary Rules for, 17? 

Roasting, 47 

Rump Steak, Broiled, 204 



Saccharine, 105 
Sago Shape, 139 
Salad, 86 

, Sardine, 252 

, Tomato, 162 

Salted Almonds, 116 
Sandwiches, Tomato, 13S 
Sardines, 166, 252 
Sauce, Apple, 18.3 



306 



INDEX. 



Sauce, Blanche, 153 

, Bread, 265 

, BrowB, 189 

, Custard, 196 

, Fish, 214 

, Fruit, 266 

, German, 165 

, Lemon, 165 

, Maitre d'Hotel, 194 

, Mushroom, 131 

, Onion, 147 

, Piquante, 87 

, Reforme, 189 

Sausage Cakes, 184 
Savoury Custard, 112 

Egg, 184 

Jelly, 116 

Mince, with Vegetables, 

111 

Rice, 185 

Scrofula, Consumption, Dietary 

Rules for, 176 

, Tables for, 180 

Seakale, 116, 157 

Shellfish, Indige&'ibility of, 70 

SHps, Baked, 261 

Slop Dietary, 274 

Sole, FiUets of, Baked, 130, 193 

, BoUed, 86 

, Fried, 162 

on Toast, 136 

Soda Water and Coffee, 296 
— — and Fruit Juice, 295 

and Milk, 295 

Soup, Apple, 283 

, Artichoke, 282 

, Asparagus, 282 

, Celery, 250, 282 

, Clear, 112, 150, 282 

, Croutons for, 187 

, Egg, 297 

, Haricot, 186 

, Julienne, 150 



Soup, Milk, 263 

, Onion, 283 

, Ox-Tail, 167 

, Rice Cream, 283 

, Tapioca Cream, 283 

, Tomato and Turnip, 204 

, Vegetable, 283 

, Vegetable Marrow, 130 

Spinach, 131 

Stimulants, 3 

Stone Dietary, Rules for, 133 

, Tables for, 134 

Sweetbread, 46, 74, 136 



T. 

Tapioca Cream, 261, 290 
Soup, 283 

Custard, 289 

JeUy, 289 

Tea, 42, 81, et seq. 

, Afternoon, 20 

Jelly, 288 

Thickened Milk, 263 

Time required for Digestion, IS 
Toast, 85, 162 
, Cream, 192 

and Water, 293 

, Water, 251 

, , and Cream, 293 

Tomato and Egg on Toast, 84 

and Turnip Soup, 204 

, Mutton CoUopa with, 191 

Salad, 162 

Sandwiches, 138 

Tongue, Cured, 46, 74 
Tiipe, 46, 74 

^ la Coutance, 211 

, Boiled, 146 

Tm-bot, Boiled, 155 
Turnip Tops. 137 



INDEX. 



307 



V. 

Veal, 45, 72 

and Tapioca Broth, 281 

Broth, 279 

Cutlets a la Talleyrand, 115 

, Grenadines of, 19-i 

Vegetable Soup, 283 
Vegetables, 47 

Artichokes, Jerusalem, 164, 

282 
Asparagus, 97, 282 
Beans, French, 236 
Broccoli, 128 
Cabbage, 113 
Cauliflower in Sprigs, 88 
Celery, 88, 234, 250, 282 
Greens, 140 

Mushrooms, 114, 131, 135 
Onions, 147, 253, 283 
Potatoes, 48, 53, 148, 149, 150, 

157, 170, 190, 195, 205, 207, 

263, 265 
SeakaJe, 116, 157 



Vegetables — {continued). 

Salad, 86, 162, 252 

Spinach, 131 

Tomatoes, 84, 138, 162, 191, 204 

Marrows, 47, 111, 130, 190 
Venison, 46, 74 
Vomiting, Dietary Eulea for, 243 



W. 

Water, 1, 40, 293 

Toast, 251 

When Should Food Be Given, 4 
Whey, 25, 40, 284 
Whiting, FiUets of, Boiled, 127 
Whole Milk, 28 

Meal Bread, 61 

Wine and Eggs, 296 
JeUy, 286 

Wines, Limitation of Quantity, 

62 
, Mulled, and Egg, 296 



P&INTBD BT 
CASSELL & COMFAKT, LIMITED. LA Bi^LLB SAUVAQB, 

LONsoir, s.a 

80.611 



^HIS BOOK IS DUE ow r„ 

OVERDUE. ^'-^O ON THE SEVg^^H '^'''^'' 




"-iOOm-8,'34 



I 



^^^.r 



£i 




330359 



?c 




UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 



