
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



THE FIRST 
BOOK OF FARMING 



CHARLES L.GOODRICH 




HARVARD COLLEGE 
LIBRARY 




FROM THE LIBRARY OF 

GEORGE FILLMORE SWAIN 

Gordon McKay Professor of 

Qvil Engineeriiig 

1909-1929 




% 



Ha^t^ o Uuitii'^i^ 



iU^ 



1> ' 



The First Book of Farming 




H 
< 

I 

u 

3 
a 

H 






F..:.r. ■ 



The 

First Book of Farming 

By 
CHARLES L. GOODRICH 

Farmtr 

Fonnerly Instructor in Agriculture at the Hampton Normal and 
Agricultiyal Institute, Hampton, Va. 

Illustrated 



ft 



NEW YORK 

boUBLEDAY, PAGE & CO. 

1907 



The First Book of Farming 



Xll CONTENTS 

Chapter />^ 

VI.— Loss OF Soil Water 

By surface wash 

By percolation and leaching 

By evaporation 

By transpiration 

How to check these losses ... 53 

VII. — Soil Temperature 57 

How soils are warmed '58 

How soils lose heat 

How to check loss of heat . . . .59 
Conditions which influence soil tempera- 
ture 60 

Value of organic matter . , . . .61 

VIII.— Plant Food in the Soil ^^ 

IX. — Seeds 70 

Conditions necessary for sprouting . . 70 

Seed testing 75 

How the seeds conje up . . . , "jy 

Use of cotyledons and endosperm . . 79 

X. — Seed Planting 81 

Depth of planting : 

Operation of planting 

Planting machines . . . .81 

Seed classification 85 

Transplanting 87 

XL— Spading and Plowing . . . . .90 

Spading the soil 90 

Plowing 91 

Why we spade and plow . . . .91 

Parts of a plow 92 

Characteristics of a good plow ... 95 

The furrow slice. 96 

How deep to plohv 96 

" Breaking out the middles " . . .97 



c;i \ 



r.ri 



Tl-- 






c 



XIV CONTENTS 



PART II 

Soil Fertility as Affected by Farm Operations and 
Farm Practices 

Chapter Page 

XVI. — ^A Fertile Soil . . . . . . .141 

Physical properties: 

Power to absorb and hold water 

Power of ventilation 

Power to absorb and hold heat . . 142 
Biological properties 143 

Nitrogen-fixing germs .... 144 

Nitrifying germs . . . ' . - . 145 

Denitrifying germs .... 147 
Chemical properties: 

Nitrogen in the soil 

Phosphoric acid in the soil 

Potash in the soil , 

Lime in the soil 

Great importance of physical proper- 

( ties 147 

Maintenance of fertility . . . .150 

XVII.— Soil Water .151 

Importance of soil water . . . .151 
Necessity of soil water . . . .151 
Sources and forms of soil water . . 153 

Too much water 154 

Not enough water 154 

Loss of soil water 155 

How some farm operations influence soil 

water 156 

Hoeing, raking, harrowing and cultivating 158 
Manures and soil water . . . .159 
Methods of cropping and soil water . 159 
Selection of crops with reference to 
soil water 160 . 



CONTENTS XV 

Chapter Page 

XVIII, — ^1'he After-Cultivation of Crops . . .164 
Loss of water by evaporation . . , . 164 
Loss of water through weeds . . .165 

Saving the water 165 

Time to cultivate . . . . . . 166 

Tools for after-cultivation . . . .167 

Hilling and ridging 169 

XIX. — Farm Manures 171 

The functions of manures and fertilizers •. 171 

Classification 171 

Importance of farm manures . . .172 
Barn or stable manure .... 173 

Loss of value 173 

Checking the losses 176 

Applying the manure to the soil . . .177 
Proper condition of manure when applied 179 
Composts .181 

XX. — Farm Manures, Concluded . . . .183 
Green-crop manures: 

Functions . . . . . . 183 

Benefits 185 

Character of best plants for green-crop 

manuring 185 

The time for green-manure crops . .186 
Leguminous green-manure crops . . 186 
Non-leguminous green-manure plants . 191 

XXI. — Commercial Fertilizers 192 

The raw materials 192 

Sources of nitrogen 193 

Sources of phosphoric acid .... 195 

Sources of potash 199 

Sources of lime 200 

XXII. — Commercial Fertilizers, Continued . . 202 
Mixed fertilizers: 
What they are 



XVI CONTENTS 

Chapter Page 

Many brands 

Saf^uard for the farmer 

Low grade materials 

Inflating the guarantee . . . 202 

Valuation 205 

Low grade mixtures ..... 207 
Buy on the plant food basis . . . 209 

XXIIL — G)MMERCiAL Fertilizers^ Concluded . .211 

Home mixing of fertilizers . . . .211 

Kind and amount to buy . . . 212 

The crop 213 

The soil 215 

The system of farming . . . 215 
Testing the soil 215 

XXIV. — Rotation of Crops 219 

Systems of cropping ..... 219 

The one crop system . . . .221 

Rotation of crops .... 224 

Benefits derived from^rotation of crops . 230 

The typical rotation 231 

Conditions which modify the rotation . 232 
General rules . . . . . . 233 

Length of rotation 233 

XXV.— Farm Drainage 235 

How surplus water affects fertility . . 235 
Indications of a need of drainage . . 235 
Drains : 

Surface drains 

Open ditch drains 

Covered drains or under drains . . 236 
Influence of covered drains on fertility . 237 
Location of drains : 

Grade 

Tile drains 238 

Glossary • • • -241 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 

The farm equipment — ^plants, soils, animals, tools, build-* 
ings . . . . . . . . Frontispiece 

Figure Facing Page 

1. Specimen plants for study 6 

2. The first effort of a sprouting seed .... 7 

3. Germinating seeds with roots 7 

4. To show that plant roots take water from the soil . 10 

5. To show that plant roots take food from the soil . 10 

6. A radish root, from which the stored food has been 

used to help produce a crop of seeds . .11 

7. A sweet-potato root producing new plants . .11 

8. Sweet-potato roots 14 

9. Soy-bean roots 15 

10. A plow stopped in the furrow, to show what it does 
to the roots of plants when used for after-cultiva- 
tion 18 

11. A corn-plant ten days after planting the seed . . 19 

12. To show where growth in length of the root takes 
place 22 

13. Radish seeds sprouted on dark cloth . . . .22 

14. To show how water gets into the roots of plants . 23 

15. To show osmose 23 

16. To show that roots need air 26 

17. Comparison of fresh and boiled water . . .26 

18. Comparison of moist sand and puddled clay . . 27 

19. Comparing soils 32 

20. Water-test of soils 33 

21. To show what becomes of the water taken from the 

soil by roots 40 

xvii 



XVUl LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 

Figurt Facing Pagt 

22. Percolation experiment. To show the relative pow- 
ers of soils to take in water falling on the surface . 41 

23. Bottles used in place of the lamp chimneys in Figs. 

22 and 24 44 

24. Capillarity of soils. To show the relative powers 

of soils to take water from below .... 44 

25. Water-absorbing and water-holding powers of soils 45 

26. Capillary tubes. To show how water rises in small 
tubes or is drawn into small spaces . . . .48 

2^, Capillary plates 48 

28. A cone of soil to show capillarity . . . .49 

29. To show the relative amounts of film-moisture held 

by coarse and fine soils 49 

30. To show the effect of a soil mulch . . . .56 

31. Soil temperature experiment 57 

32. Charts showing average temperature of a set of dry 
and wet soils during a period of five days . . 60 

33. To show the value of organic matter . . .61 

34. Soy-bean roots, showing nodules or tubercles . . 64 

35. Garden-pea roots, showing tubercles or nodules . 65 
2fi. To show that seeds need water for germination . 72 

37. To show that seeds need air for germination . . 72 

38. To show that seeds need air for germination . . 73 

39. A seed-tester: two plates and a moist cloth . . 80 

40. A seed-tester: a plaster cast with cavities in the 

surface for small seeds 80 

41. Germinating corn-kernel and bean . . . .81 

42. To show how the bean-plant gets up ... 82 

43. To show how the corn-plant gets out of the soil . 82 

44. To show the use of cotyledons 83 

45. To show the use of the kernel to the young corn- 
plant 86 

46. To show how deeply seeds should be planted . . 87 

47. Operations of seed-planting 88 

48. A collection of planting machines .... 89 

49. Spading-fork and spade 92 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS XIX 

Figurt FacingPagt 

50. A wood "beam-plow • 93 

51. A slip-nose share and a slip-nose .... 96 

52. A straight knife coulter . . . , . .96 
^Z. An iron beam-plow with rolling coulter and double 

clevis . 96 

54. A rolling cutter-harrow . . . . . .97 

55. Spring-toothed harrows ...... 97 

56. Spike-toothed harrows 104 

57. A coulter-toothed harrow 104 

58. A plank harrow 105 

59. To show transpiration 108 

60. Amount of transpiration 109 

61. To show that growing leaves contain starch . .114 

62. To show that starch disappears from the leaf when 
the plant is placed in the dark 114 

63. To show that sunlight is necessary for starch-mak- 
ing by leaves 115 

64. To show that chlorophyl is necessary for starch 
formation in the leaf 115 

65. To show the giving off of gas by leaves, and that 
sunlight is necessary for it 118 

66. Seedling radishes reaching for light . . . .119 
d^. Elm leaves injured by the "imported elm-tree leaf- 
beetle," a chewing insect 119 

68. A horse-chestnut stem, showing leaves, buds, and 
scars, where last year's leaves dropped off . . 128 

69. An underground stem. Buds show distinctly . . 129 

70. Flower of cherry 130 

71. Flower of apple . . 130 

72. Pistil and stamen of flowering raspberry . . . 131 

73. Fower of buttercup 131 

74. A magnolia flower showing central column of pis- 
tils and stamens 134 

75. Flowers of squash 135 

T^i, Flower of a lily 136 

'JT, Bud and flower of jewel-weed or " touch-me-not " . 137 



XX LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 

Figmrt PacingPagt 

78. Pistillate flower and perfect flower of strawberry . 137 

79. A crop of cowpeas 178 

80. Red clover 179 

81. Soy-beans in young orchard 182 

82. A young alfalfa plant just coming into flower . . 183 

83. Cross-sections of stone-drains 238 

84. Cross-section of a pole-drain and of a tile-drain . 238 

85. A collection of drainage tools 239 

86. A poorly laid tile-drain and a properly graded tile- 
drain 239 



Part I 

General Principles Underlying 
Plant Culture 



THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

Part I 

General Principles Underlying Plant Culture 

CHAPTER I 
Introduction to Plants 

Our object in reading and studying this book is 
to find out some facts that will help those of us who 
are thinking of going into farming and gardening 
as a business or recreation to start right, and will 
also help those of us that are already in the business 
to make our farms and gardens more productive. 

In order to make the book of greatest value to 
you, I would urge you not only to read and study it, 
but also to make the excursions suggested and to per- 
form the experiments. In other words, it will be of 
much greater value to you if you will make the ob- 
servations and investigations and find out for your- 
selves the important facts and principles rather than 
simply take statements of the book unquestioned. 

A very good time to begin this work is during the 
latter part of the summer, when the summer crops 

3 



4 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

are ripening and the fall and winter crops are start- 
ing into growth. So suppose we begin our study 
with a visit to some farm in early September, to 
bring to mind the many things a farmer works with, 
the many things he has to think about and know 
about. 

As we approach the farm we will probably see 
first the farm-house surrounded by shade trees, per- 
haps elms or maples, with the barns and other build- 
ings grouped nearby. As we pass up the front walk 
we notice more or less lawn of neatly clipped grass, 
with flower beds bordering the walk, or we may 
find a number of chickens occupying the front yard, 
and the flower beds, placed in red half-barrels, set 
upon short posts. In the flower beds we may find 
petunias, nasturtiums, geraniums, rose bushes and 
other flowering plants. Going around the house, we 
come upon the dairy, with its rack of cans and pans 
set out for the daily sunning and airing. Nearby is 
a well with its oaken bucket ; at the bam we find the 
farmer, and he very kindly consents to go with us 
to answer questions. In the barn and sheds we find 
wagons, plows, harrows, seed drills, hoes, rakes, 
scythes and many other tools and machines. Pass- 
ing on to the fields, we go through the vegetable 
garden, where are carrots, parsnips, cabbages, beets, 
celery, sage and many other vegetables and herbs. 

On the right, we see a field of corn just ready 
to harvest, and beyond a field of potatoes. On the 
left is the orchard, and we are invited to refresh 
ourselves with juicy apples. In the field beyond the 



INTRODUCTION TO PLANTS 5 

hired man is plowing with a fine team of horses. In 
the South we would find a field of cotton and one 
of sweet potatoes, and perhaps sugar cane or pea- 
nuts. We have not failed to notice the pig weeds 
in the com field nor the rag weed in the wheat stub- 
ble, and many other weeds and grasses in the fence 
corners. 

Perhaps we may meet the cows coming from pas- 
ture to the stable. All the way we have been tram- 
pling on something very important which we will 
notice on our way back. In this field we find a 
coarse sandy soil, in the next one a soil that is finer 
and stiffer. The plow is turning up a reddish soil. 
In the garden we find the soil quite dark in color. 

But these are only a few of the things we have 
found. If you have used your notebook you will 
discover that you have long lists of objects which 
you have noticed, and these may be grouped under 
the following headings: Animals, Plants, Soils, 
Buildings, Tools, etc. 

The farmer, then, in his work on the farm deals 
with certain agents, chief among which are Soils, 
Plants, Animals, Tools and Buildings. Other agents 
which assist or retard his work according to circum- 
stances are the air, sunlight, heat, moisture, plant 
food, microscopic organisms called bacteria, etc. 
These agents are controlled in their relations to one 
another by certain forces which work according to 
certain laws and principles of nature. To work in- 
telligently and to obtain the best results the farmer 
must become familiar with these agents and must 



6 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

work in harmony with the laws and principles which 
control them. 

Let us take up the study of some of these groups 
of agents, beginning with the most important or 
central one on the farm. 

Which do you think is the most important group ? 
Some will say " tools." The majority will probably 
say, study the soil first, " because we must work the 
soil before we can grow good crops." Some few 
will mention " plants." This last is right. The 
farm animals are dependent on plants for food. We 
till or work the soil to produce plants. Plants are 
living, growing things, and certain requirements or 
conditions are necessary for their growth and de- 
velopment; we cannot intelligently prepare the soil 
for plant growth until we know something about the 
work of plants and the conditions they need to do 
their work well. 

For our first study of plants let us get together a 
number of farm and garden plants. Say, we have a 
corn plant, cotton, beet, turnip, carrot, onion, potato, 
grass, geranium, marigold, pigweed, thistle, or other 
farm or garden plants. In each case get the entire 
plant, with as much root as possible. Do these 
plants in any way resemble one another? All are 
green, all have roots, all have stems and leaves, some 
of them have flowers, fruit, and seeds, and the others 
in time will produce them. 

Why does the farmer raise these plants? For 
food for man and animals ; for clothing ; for orna- 
mental purposes ; for pleasure, etc. 




FIG. 2. 

The first effort of a sprouting seed is to send a root down into 
the soil. 




FIG 3. 

Germinating seeds produce roots before they send a shoot up 

into the air. 



INTRODUCTION TO PLANTS 7 

Which part of any or all of these farm plants is of 
greatest importance to the plant itself ? 

I am sure that you will agree that the root is the 
part most important to the plant itself, for if any 
part of a plant be separated from the root, that part 
ceases growth and will soon die, unless it is able to 
put out new roots. But the root from which the 
plant was cut will generally send up new shoots, 
unless it has nearly completed its life work. When 
a slip or cutting is placed in water or in moist sand 
it makes a root before it continues much in growth. 
When a seed is planted its first effort is to send a 
rootlet down into the soil. 

Experiment to see if this is true by planting slips 
of willow, or geranium, or by planting corn or beans 
in a glass tumbler of soil, or ia a box having a glass 
side, placing the seeds close to the glass ; then watch 
and see what the seed does. Figs. 2 and 3. 

Which of the parts of the plant is of greatest 
importance to the farmer or. any plant grower, or 
to which part of a plant should the plant grower 
give his best attention ? You will probably mention 
different parts of the different plants in answering 
this question. For instance, some will say, " The 
seed is the most important part of the wheat plant 
to the farmer, for that is what the wheat is grown 
for." " The fruit is the most important part of the 
apple plant for the same reason." " The leaves and 
grain of the corn, the leaves of the cabbage, are 
the important parts of these plants and should 
have the best attention of the grower, because they 



8 THE FIRST BCX)K OF FARMING 

are the parts for which he grows the plants." But 
you must remember that all of these parts are de- 
pendent on the root for life and growth, as was 
brought out in the answer to the last question, and 
that if the farmer or plant grower desires a fine 
crop of leaves, stems, flowers, fruit or seeds, he must 
give his very best attention to the root. Judging 
from the poor way in which many farmers and 
plant growers prepare the soil for the plants they 
raise, and the poor way they care for the soil during 
the growth of the plants, they evidently think least 
of, and give least attention to, the roots of the plants. 
Then, in studying our plants, which part shall we 
study first ? Why, the roots, of course : To find out 
what they do for the plant, how they do this work, 
and what conditions are necessary for them to grow 
and to do their work well. 



CHAPTER II 
Roots 

uses of roots to plants 

Of what use are roots to plants, or, what work do 
they perform for the plants? 

If the reader has ever tried to pull up weeds or 
other plants he will agree that one function of the 
roots of plants is to hold them firmly in place while 
they are growing. 

Experiment — Pull two plants from the soil, shake 
them free of earth, and place the roots of one in 
water and expose the roots of the other to the air. 
Notice that the plant whose roots are exposed to 
the air soon wilts, while the one whose roots were 
placed in water keeps fresh. You have noticed how 
a potted plant will wilt if the soil in the pot is al- 
lowed to become dry (see Fig. 4), or how the leaves 
of com and other plants curl up and wither during 
long periods of dry weather. It is quite evident 
roots absorb moisture from the soil for the plant. 

Experiment — Plant some seeds in tumblers or in 
boxes filled with sand and in others filled with good 
garden soil. Keep them well watered and watch 
their progress for a few weeks (see Fig. 5). The 

9 



lO THE FIRST BCX>K OF FARMING 

plants in the garden soil will grow larger than those 
in the sand. The roots evidently must get food from 
the soil and those in the good garden soil get more 
than those in the poorer sand. Another important 
function of plant roots then is to take food from the 
soil for the plant. 

You know how thick and fleshy the roots of rad- 
ishes, beets and turnips are. Well, go into the gar- 
den and see if you can find a spring radish or an 
early turnip that has sent up a flower stalk, blos- 
somed and produced seeds. If you are successful, 
cut the root in two and notice that instead of being 
hard and fleshy like the young radish or turnip, it 
has become hollow, or soft and spongy (see Fig. 6). 
Evidently the hard, fleshy young root was packed 
with food, which it afterwards gave up to produce 
flower stalk and seeds. 

A fourth use of the root, then, is to store food for 
the future use of the plant. 

Experiment. — Plant a sweet potato or place it 
with the lower end in a tumbler of water and set it 
in a warm room. Observe it from day to day as it 
puts out new shoots bearing leaves and roots (see 
Fig. 7). Break these oflF and plant them in soil and 
you have a number of new plants. If you can get 
the material, repeat this experiment with roots of 
horse-radish, raspberry, blackberry or dahlia. From 
this we see that it is the work of some roots to pro- 
duce new plants. This function of roots is made 
use of in propagating or obtaining new plants of 
the sweet potato, horse-radish, blackberry, raspberry, 
dahlia and other plants. 





A. B. 

FIG. 4. 

To show that plant-roots take water from the soil ; the plants 
in A are suffering from thirst. E has sufficient water. 




FIG. 5. 

To show that plant-roots take food from the soil. Both boxes 

were planted at the same time. 




c 
bo 

3 
O 



o 
04 



en 




ktM^^' 



ROOTS I I 

We have now learned five important things that 
roots do for plants, namely : 

Roots hold plants firmly in place. 

They absorb water from the soil for the plants. 

They absorb food from the soil for the plants. 

Some roots store food for the future use of the 
plant. 

Some roots produce new plants. 

How do the roots do this work ? To answer this 
question it will be necessary to study the habit of 
growth of the roots of our plants. 

HABIT OF GROWTH OF ROOTS 

The proper place to begin this study is in the 
field or garden. So we will make another excursion, 
and this time we will take with us a pick-axe or 
mattock, a shovel or two, a sharp stick, a quart or 
half-gallon pitcher, and several buckets of water. 
Arrived in the field, we will select a well-developed 
plant, say, of corn, potato or cotton. Then we will 
dig a hole about six feet long, three feet wide, and 
five or six feet deep, close to the plant, letting one 
side come about four or five inches from the base 
of the plant. It will be well to have this hole run 
across the row rather than lengthwise with it. Then 
with the pitcher pour water about the base of the 
plant and wash the soil away from the roots. Gently 
loosening the soil with the sharpened stick will 
hasten this work. In this way carefully expose the 
roots along the side of the hole, tracing them as 



12 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

far as possible laterally and as deep as possible, 
taking care to loosen them as little as possible from 
their natural position. (See Figs. 8 and 9.) Hav- 
ing exposed the roots of one kind of plant to a width 
and depth of five or six feet, expose the roots of six 
or eight plants of different kinds to a depth of about 
eighteen inches. As this may require more time 
than we can take for it in one day, it will be well 
to cover the exposed roots with some old burlaps or 
other material until we have them all ready, in order 
to keep them from drying and from injury. 

When all is ready we will study the root system 
of each plant and answer these four questions : 

In what part of the soil are most of the roots? 

How deep do they penetrate the soil? 

How near do they come to the surface of the soil ? 

How far do they reach out sidewise or laterally 
from the plant ? 

To the first question, " In what part of the soil 
are most of the roots?" you will give the follow- 
ing answers : " In the upper layer." " In the sur- 
face soil." " In the softer soil." " In the darker 
soil." " In the plowed soil." 

These are all correct, but the last is the important 
one. Most of the roots will be formed in that part 
of the soil that has been plowed or spaded. 

The second question, "How deep do the roots 
penetrate the soil ? " is easily answered. Roots will 
be found penetrating the soil to depths of from two 
to six feet or more. (See Fig. 8.) The author has 
traced the roots of cowpea and soy bean plants to 



ROOTS 1 3 

depths of five and six feet, corn roots four and five 
feet, parsnips over six feet. . The sweet-potato roots 
illustrated in Fig. 8 penetrated the soil to a depth of 
over five feet. The roots of alfalfa or lucerii have 
been traced to depths of from thirteen to sixteen feet 
or more. 

How near to the surface of the soil do you find 
roots? Main side or lateral it>ots will be found 
within two or three inches of the surface, and little 
rootlets from these will be found reaching up as near 
the surface as there is a supply of moisture. After 
a continued period of wet weather, if the soil has 
not been disturbed, roots will be found coming to 
the very surface and even running along the top of 
the soil. 

As to the fourth question. How far do roots 
reach out sidewise or laterally from the plant? you 
will find roots extending three, four, five and even 
six or more feet from the plant. They have numer- 
ous branches and rootlets, which fill all parts of the 
upper soil. Tree roots have been found thirty or 
forty feet in length. 

We started on this observation lesson to find out 
something about the habit of growth of roots, so 
that we could tell how the roots do their work for 
the plant. But before going on with that question, 
let us stop right here and see whether we cannot find 
some very important lessons for the farmer and 
plant grower from what we have already seen. Is a 
knowledge of these facts we have learned about 
roots of any value to the farmer? Let us examine 
each case and see. 



14 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

Of what Value is it to the farmer to know that 
the larger part of the roots of farm plants develop in' 
that part of the soil that has been plowed or spaded ? 
It tells him that plowing tends to bring about the 
soil conditions which are favorable to the growth 
and development of roots. Therefore, the deeper 
he plows, the deeper is the body of the soil having 
conditions best suited for root growth, and the 
larger will be the crop which grows above the soil. 

Of what value is it to the farmer to know that the 
roots of farm plants penetrate to depths of five or 
six feet in the soil ? To answer this question it will 
be necessary for us to know something of the con- 
ditions necessary for root growth. So we will leave 
this till later. 

Of what value is it to the fanner to know that 
many of the roots of his farm plants come very near 
the surface of the soil ? It tells him that he should 
be careful in cultivating his crop to injure as few of 
these roots as possible. In some parts of the coun- 
try, particularly in the South, the tool commonly 
used for field cultivation is a small plow. This is 
run alongside of the row, throwing the soil from the 
crop, and then again throwing the soil to the crop. 
Suppose we investigate, and see how this aflFects the 
roots of the crop. 

Let us visit a field where some farmer is working 
a crop with a plow, or get him to do It, for the sake 
of the lesson. We will ask him to stop the plow 
somewhere opposite a plant, then we will dig a hole 
a little to one side of the plow and wash away the 




s is 



o g 

£>3 






J3 


cd 


fi 


J3 




•♦-» 


c/) 


0) 




Ui 


00 "^ 






B 


{5 o 


?^ o 


VM 


h Vh 





a> 


J3 


J3 


■M 


*3 


o* 




u 


"S 


•0 


OT 


cd 


OJ 


•g 


s 


s 


•4^ 


V* 


rt 


V 


& 


1 


4; 


c/> 


^ 




H 


•a 




c 




jtf 


en 




■M 


"o. 








0) 




J3 




■M 


2 


i^ 


04 


MH (A 


^ 


^ 4> 


V 


^ •G 


1 




c/) 


i^ a 




« 




■M U 




^ «* 



RQOTS 1 5 

soil from over the plow (see Fig. lo), and see where 
the roots are. We will find that the plow-point runs 
under many strong-feeding lateral roots and tears 
them off, thus checking the feeding power of the 
plant, and consequently checking its growth. Now, 
if we can get a cultivator, we will have that run 
along the row and then wash away the loosened soil. 
It will be found that few, if any, of the main lateral 
roots have been injured. 

Is it of any value to the farmer to know that 
roots extend laterally three to six feet and more on 
all sides of the plant, and that every part of the up- 
per soil is filled with their branches and rootlets? 
This fact has a bearing on the application of manures 
and fertilizers. It tells the farmer that when he 
applies the manure and fertilizers to the soil he 
should mix the most of them thoroughly all through 
the soil, placing only a little directly in the row to 
start the young plant. 

To find out how quickly the roots reach out into 
the soil, wash the soil away from some seedlings that 
have been growing only a few days, say, seven, ten 
and fifteen. (See Fig. ii.) 

From our observations, then, we have learned the 
important lessons of deep, thorough plowing, care- 
ful shallow after-cultivation, and that fertilizers 
should be well mixed with the soil. 

We are now ready to go back to our study of the 
habit of growth of roots, and can perhaps tell some- 
thing of how the root does its work for the plant. 

It is very easy to see how the roots hold the plant 









"■"^^^ extend 7 ^* *-- :5^ - 

^"d fifteen r ^"^ °"*>- a L^- ** ^: - -' 
"' shallow aft^ **«ep- Sr*,^^ '^~-^- 

... '^ o* growth of / ^^- ^^ • ^ 



1 6 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

firmly in place, for they penetrate so thoroughly 
every part of the soil, and to such distances, that 
they hold with a grip that makes it impossible to re- 
move the plant from the soil without tearing it free 
from the roots. 

It is also on account of this very thorough reach- 
ing out through the soil that the roots are able to 
supply the plant with sufficient moisture and food. 

We have doubtless observed that most of these 
roots are very slender and many very delicate. How 
did they manage to reach out into the soil so far 
from the plant? Or where does the root grow in 
length? To answer this question I will ask you 
to perform the following experiment : 

Experiment. — Place some kernels of corn or other 
large seeds on a plate between the folds of a piece 
of wet cloth. Cover with a pane of glass or another 
plate. Keep the cloth moist till the seeds sprout 
and the young plants have roots two or three inches 
long. Now have at hand a plate, two pieces of glass, 
4 by 6 inches, a piece of white cloth about 4 by 8 
inches, a spool of dark thread, and two burnt 
matches, or small slivers of wood. A shallow tin 
pan may be used in place of the plate. Lay one 
pane of glass on the plate, letting one end rest in 
the bottom of the plate and the other on the oppo- 
site edge of the plate. At one end of the piece of 
cloth cut two slits on opposite sides about an inch 
down from the end and reaching nearly to the mid- 
dle. Wet the cloth and spread it on the glass. Take 
one of the sprouted seeds, lay it on the cloth, tie 



ROOTS 17 

pieces of thread around the main root at intervals 
of one-quarter inch from tip to seed. Tie carefully, 
so that the root will not be injured. Place the 
second pane of glass over the roots, letting the edge 
come just below the seed, slipping in the slivers of 
wood to prevent the glass crushing the roots. Wrap 
the two flaps of the cloth about the seed. Pour 
some water in the plate and leave for development. 
(Fig. 12.) A day or two of waiting will show con- 
clusively that the lengthening takes place at the tip 
only, or just back of the tip. Is this fact of any 
value to the farmer? Yes. The soft tender root 
tips will force their way through a mellow soil with 
greater ease and rapidity than through a hard soil, 
and the more rapid the root growth the more rapid 
the development of the plant. This teaches us again 
the lesson of deep, thorough breaking and pulver- 
izing of the soil before the crop is planted. 

We have learned that the roots grow out into the 
soil in search of moisture and food, which they 
absorb for the use of the plant. How does the root 
take in moisture and food ? Many people think that 
there are little mouths at the tips of the roots, and 
that the food and moisture are taken in through 
them. This is not so, for examination with the 
most powerful microscopes fails to discover any such 
. mouths. Sprout seeds of radish, turnip or cabbage, 
or other seeds, on dark cloth, placed in plates and 
kept moist. Notice the fuzz or mass of root hairs 
near the ends of the tender roots of the seedlings 
(Fig. 13). Plant similar seed in sand or soil, and 



I 8 • THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

when they have started to grow pull them up and 
notice how difficult it is to remove all of the sand or 
dirt from the roots. This is because the delicate 
root hairs cling so closely to the soil grains. The 
root hairs are absorbing moisture laden with plant 
food from the surface of the soil particles. The 
root hairs are found only near the root tips. As the 
root grows older, its surface becomes tougher and 
harder, and the hairs die, while new ones appear on 
the new growth just back of the root tips, which are 
constantly reaching out after moisture and food. 
The moisture gets into the root hairs by a process 
called osmose. The following interesting experi- 
ment will give you an idea of this process or force 
of osmose. 

Experiment. — Procure a wide-mouthed bottle, an 
eggy a glass tube about three inches long and a 
quarter-inch in diameter, a candle, and a piece of 
wire a little longer than the tube. Remove a part of 
the shell from the large end of the egg without 
breaking the skin beneath. This is easily done by 
gently tapping the shell with the handle of a pocket- 
knife until it is full of small cracks, and then, with 
the blade of the knife, picking off the small pieces. 
In this way remove the shell from the space about 
the size of a nickel. Remove the shell from the 
small end of the tgg over a space about as large as 
the end of the glass tube. Next, from the lower end 
of the candle cut a piece about one-half inch long. 
Bore a hole in this just the size of the glass tube. 
Now soften one end of the piece of candle with the 




FIG. 10. 

A plow Stopped in the furrow, to show what it does to the 
roots of plants when used for after-cultivation. Notice the 
point of the plow under the roots. 




o 
§•.£ 

^ 00 

o "^ 



M O ^ 
•4-* 

. S I 

^^ '9 



RCX)TS 19 

hole in it and stick it on to the small end of the egg 
so that the hole in the candle comes over the hole in 
the egg. Heat the wire, and with it solder the piece 
of candle more firmly to the egg, making a water- 
tight Joint. Place the glass tube in the hole irf the 
piece of candle, pushing it down till it touches the 
egg. Then, with the heated wire, solder the tube 
firmly in place. Now run the wire down the tube 
and break the skin of the egg just under the end of 
the tube. Fill the bottle with water till it overflows, 
and set the egg on the bottle, the large end in con- 
tact with the water (Fig. 14). In an hour or so the 
contents of the egg will be seen rising in the glass 
tube. This happens because the water is making its 
way by osmose into the egg through the skin, which 
has no openings, so far as can be discovered. If the 
bottle is kept supplied with water as fast as it is 
taken up by the egg, almost the entire contents of the 
egg will be forced out of the tube. In this way 
water in which plant food is dissolved enters the 
slender root hairs and rises through the plant. 

Experiment. — This process of osmose may also Be 
shown as follows (Fig. 15) : Remove the shell from 
the large end of an egg without breaking the skin, 
break a hole in the small end of the egg and empty 
out the contents of the egg; rinse the shell with 
water. Fill a wide-mouthed bottle with water col- 
ored with a few drops of red ink. Fill the egg-shell 
partly full of clear water and set it on the bottle of 
colored water. Colored water will gradually pass 
through the membrane of the egg and color the wa- 



20 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

ter in the shell. Prepare another egg in the same way, 
but put colored water in the shell and clear water 
in the bottle. The colored water in the shell will 
pass through the skin and color the water in the 
bottle. Sugar or salt may be used in place of the 
red ink, and their presence after passing through 
the membrane may be detected by taste. 

CONDITIONS NECESSARY FOR ROOT GROWTH 

We have learned some of the things that the roots 
do for plants and a little about how the work is done. 
The next thing to find out is : 

What conditions are necessary for the root to do 
its work? 

We know that a part of the work of the root is to 
penetrate the soil and hold the plant firmly in place. 
Therefore, it needs a firm soil. 

We know that the part of the root which pene- 
trates the soil is tender and easily injured. There- 
fore, for rapid growth the root needs a mellow soil. 
. We know that part of the work of the root is to 
take moisture from the soil. Therefore, it needs a 
moist soil. 

We know that part of the work of the root is to 
take food from the soil. Therefore, it needs a soil 
well supplied with plant food. 

We know that roots stop their work in cold 
weather. Therefore, they need a warm soil. 

Another condition needed by roots we will find 
out by experiment. 



ROOTS 2 1 

Experiment. — ^Take two wide-mouthed clear glass 
bottles (Fig. i6) ; fill one nearly full of water from 
the well or hydrant ; fill the other bottle nearly full 
of water that has been boiled and cooled ; place in 
each bottle a slip or cutting of Wandering Jew 
(called also inch plant, or tradescantia, and spider- 
wort), or some other plant that roots readily in 
water. Then pour on top of the boiled water about 
a quarter of an inch of oil — lard oil or cottonseed oil 
or salad oil. This is to prevent the absorption of air. 
In a few days roots will appear on the slip in the 
hydrant water, while only a very few short ones, if 
any, will appear in the boiled water, and they will 
soon cease growing. Why is this ? To answer this 
question, try another experiment. Take two bottles, 
filled as before, one with hydrant water and the other 
with boiled water ; drop into each a slip of glass or a 
spoon or piece of metal long enough so that one 
end will rest on the bottom and the other against the 
side of the bottle, and let stand for an hour or so 
(Fig. 17). At the end of that time bubbles of air 
will be seen collecting on the glass or spoon in the 
hydrant water, but none in the boiled water. This 
shows us that water contains more or less air, and 
that boiling the water drives this air out. The cut- 
ting in the boiled water did not produce roots be- 
cause there was no air in it and the oil kept it from 
absorbing any. 

Experiment. — Into some tumblers of moist sand 
put cuttings of several kinds of plants that root 
readily (Fig. 18), geranium, tradescantia, begonia, 



22 ' THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

etc. Put cuttings of same plants into tumblers filled 
with clay that has been wet and stirred very thor- 
oughly, until it is about the consistency of cake bat- 
ter. Keep the sand and puddled clay moist ; do not 
allow the clay to crack, which it will do if it dries. 
The cuttings in the sand will strike root and grow, 
while most, if not all, those in the clay will soon die. 
The reason for this is that the sand is well ventilated 
and there is sufficient air for root development, while 
the clay is very poorly ventilated, and there is not 
sufficient aif for root growth. 

These experiments show us that to develop and do 
their work roots need air or a well-ventilated soil. 

We have found the conditions which are necessary 
for the growth and development of plant roots, 
namely : 

A firm, mellow soil. 

A moist soil. 

A soil supplied with available plant food. 

A warm soil. 

A ventilated soil. 

These are the most important facts about plant 
growth so far as the plant grower is concerned. In 
other words, these conditions which are necessary 
for root growth and development are the most im- 
portant truths of agriculture, or they are the founda- 
tion truths or principles upon which all agriculture is 
based. Having found these conditions, the next 
most important step is to find out how to bring them 
about in the soil, or, if they already exist, how to 
keep them or to improve them. This brings us, 
then, to a study of soils. 




FIG. 12. 

To show where growth in length of the root takes place. 
Forty hours before the photograph was taken the tip of the 
root was 54 i^^ch from the lowest thread. The glass cover 
was taken from this in order to get a good picture of the root. 




FIG. 13. 
Radish seeds sprouted on dark cloth. To show root hairs. 



CHAPTER III 

Soils 

The soil considered agriculturally, is that part of 
the earth's crust which is occupied by the roots of 
plants and from which they absorb food and mois- 
ture. 

RELATION OF SOIL TO PLANTS 

We have learned that plant roots penetrate the 
soil to hold the pla-nt in a firm and stable position, 
to absorb moisture and with it plant food. We 
learned also that for roots to do these things well, 
the soil in which they grow must be mellow and 
firm, and must contain moisture and plant food, 
air must circulate in its pores and it must be warm. 

How can we bring about these conditions? To 
answer this question intelligently it will be neces- 
sary for us to study the soil to find out something 
about its structure, its composition, its character- 
istics; also, how it was made and what forces or 
agencies were active in making it. Are these forces 
acting on the soil at the present time? Do they 
have any influence over the conditions which are 
favorable or unfavorable to plant growth? If so, 

23 



24 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

can we control them in their action for the benefit 
or injury of plants? 

We will begin this soil study with an excursion 
and a few experiments. 

Go to the field. Examine the soil in the holes 
dug for the root lessons, noticing the difference 
between the upper or surface soil and the under or 
subsoil. Examine as many kinds of surface soils 
and subsoils as possible, also decayed leaf mould, 
the black soil of the woods, etc. If there are in the 
neighborhood any exposed embankments where d 
road has been cut through a hill, or where a river 
or the sea water has cut into a bank of soil, visit 
them and examine the exposed soils. 

Experiment. — Place in separate pans, dishes, 
plates, boxes, or on boards, one or two pints each 
of sand, clay, decayed vegetable matter or leaf 
mould or woods soil, and garden soil. The soil 
should be fresh from the field. Examine the sand, 
clay and leaf mould, comparing them as to color; 
are they light or dark, are they moist or not ? Test 
the soils for comparative size of particles by rub- 
bing between the fingers (Fig. 19), noticing if 
they are coarse or fine, and for stickiness by squeez- 
ing in the hand and noting whether or not they 
easily crumble afterwards. 

Experiment. — Take samples, about a teaspoon- 
ful, of sand, clay and leaf mould. Dry them and 
then place each in an iron spoon or on a small coal 
shovel and heat in stove to redness. It will be found 
that the leaf mould will smoke and burn, and will 



SOILS 25 

diminish in amount, while the sand and clay will not. 

Experiment. — Take two wide-mouthed bottles; 
fill both nearly full of water. Into one put about 
a teaspoonful of clay and into the other the same 
amount of sand'; shake both bottles thoroughly and 
set on table to settle (Fig. 20). It will be found 
that the sand settles very quickly and the clay very 
slowly. 

As the result of our three experiments we will 
find something as follows : 

Sand is light in color, moist, coarse, not sticky, 
settles quickly in water, and will not bum. 

Clay is darker in color, moist, very fine, quite 
sticky, settles slowly in water, and will not bum. 

Leaf mould or humus is very dark in color, moist, 
very fine, slightly sticky, and bums when placed in 
the fire. 

Experiment. — We now have knowledge and 
means for making simple tests of soils. Repeat 
the last three experiments with the garden soil. 
We will find, perhaps, that it is dark in color and 
some of it burns away when placed ip the fire, there- 
fore it contains organic matter or decaying vegetable 
mattef or humus, as it is called. This sample has 
perhaps fine particles and coarse particles; part 
of it will settle quickly in water while part settles 
very slowly, and it is sticky. Therefore we con- 
clude that there are both clay and sand in it. If 
we shake a sample of it in a bottle of water and 
let it settle for several days, we can tell roughly 
from the layers of soil in the bottom of the bottle 



26 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

the relative amounts of sand and clay in the soil. 
Also if we weigh a sample before and after burn- 
ing we can tell roughly the amount of organic mat- 
ter in the soil. Test a number of soils and deter- 
mine roughly the proportions of sand, clay and 
organic matter in them. 

Experiment. — Take the pans of soil used in our 
first soil experiment and separate the soils in the 
pans into two parts by a trench across the centre 
on the pan. Now wet the soil in one side of the 
pan and stir it with a stick or a spoon, carefully 
smooth the surface of the soil in the other side of 
the pan and pour or sprinkle some water on it, but 
do not stir it. Set the pans aside till the soils are 
dry. This drying may take' several days and in the 
meantime we will study the classification of soils. 

CLASSIFICATION OF SOILS 

Soil materials and soils are classified as follows : 

Stones, — Coarse, irregular or rounded rock frag- 
ments or pieces of rock. 

Gravel, — Coarse fragments and pebbles ranging 
in size from several inches in diameter down to 
1/25 inch. 

Sand. — Soil particles ranging from 1/25 of an 
inch down to 1/500 of an inch in diameter. Sand 
is divided into several grades or sizes. 

Coarse sand 1/25 to 1/50 of an inch. 
Medium sand 1/50 to .1/100 of an inch. 



SOILS 27 

Fine sand i/ioo to 1/250 of an inch. 
Very fine sand 1/250 to 1/500 of an inch. 

These grades of sand correspond very nearly with 
the grains of granulated and soft sugar and fine 
table salt. 

Silt, — Fine soil particles ranging from i/soo to 
1/5000 of an inch in diameter. It feels very fine 
and smooth when rubbed between the fingers, es- 
pecially when moist. A good illustration of silt is 
the silicon used for cleaning knives, a small amount 
•of which can be obtained at most any grocery store. 
By rubbing some of this between the fingers, both 
dry and wet, one can get a fair idea of how a silty 
soil should feel. Silt when wet is sticky like clay. 

Clay, — The finest of rock particles, 1/5000 to 
1/250000 of an inch in diameter, too small to im- 
agine. Clay when wet is very soft, slippery and 
very sticky. Yellow ochre and whiting from the 
paint shop are good illustrations of clay. 

Humus, or decaying vegetable and animal mat- 
ter. This is dark brown or almost black in color — 
decaying leaves and woods soil are examples. 

Soils composed of the above materials: 

Sands or Sandy Soils. — These soils are mixtures 
of the different grades of sand and small amounts 
of silt, clay and organic matter. They are light, 
loose and easy to work. They produce early crops, 
and are particularly adapted to early truck, fruit 
and bright tobacco, but are too light for general 
farm crops. To this class belongs the so-called 



28 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

Norfolk Sand. This is a coarse to medium, yellow 
or brown sand averaging about five-sixths sand and 
one-sixth silt and clay and is a typical early truck 
soil found all along the eastern coast of the United 
States. 

" It is a mealy, porous, warm sand, well drained 
and easily cultivated. In regions where trucking 
forms an important part of agriculture, this soil is 
sought out as best adapted to the production of 
watermelons, canteloupes, sweet potatoes, early Irish 
potatoes, strawberries, early tomatoes, early peas, 
peppers, egg plant, rhubarb and even cabbage and 
cauliflower, though the latter crops produce better 
yields on a heavier soil." 

A very similar sand in the central part of the 
country is called Miami Sand and, on the Pacific 
Coast, Fresno Sand. These names are given to 
these type soils by the Bureau of Soils of the United 
States Department of Agriculture. 

Loams or Loamy Soils, consist of mixtures of 
the sands, silt and clay with some organic matter. 
The term loam is applied to a soil which, from its 
appearance in the field and the feeling when handled, 
appears to be about one-half sand and the other 
half silt and clay with more or less organic matter. 
These are naturally fine in texture and quite sticky 
when wet. They would be called clay by many on 
account of their stickiness. They are good soils 
for general farming and produce good grain, grass, 
corn, potatoes, cotton, vegetables, etc. 

Sandy Loams, averaging about three-fifths sand 



SOILS 29 

and two-fifths silt and clay. These soils are tilled 
easily and are the lightest desirable soil for general 
farming. They are particularly adapted to com 
and cotton and in some instances are used for small 
fruits and truck crops. 

Silt Loam consists largely of silt with a small 
amount of sand, clay, and organic matter. These 
soils are some of the most difficult to till, but when 
well drained they are with careful management 
good general farming soils, producing good com, 
wheat, oats, potatoes, alfalfa and fair cotton. 

Clay Loams, — ^These soils contain more clay than 
the silt loams. They are stiff, sticky soils, and some 
of them are difficult to till. They are generally 
considered the strongest soils for general farming. 
They are particularly adapted to wheat, hay, corn 
and grass. 

Gravelly loams are from one-fourth to two-thirds 
coarse grained ; the remaining fine soil may be sandy 
loam, silt or clay loam. They are adapted to vari- 
ous crops according to the character of the fine soil. 
Some of them are best planted to fruit and forest. 

Stony Loam. — Like the gravelly loam the stony 
loams are one-fourth to three-fourths sandy, silty 
or clay loam, the remainder being rock fragments 
of larger size than the gravel. These fragments 
are sometimes rough and irregular and sometimes 
rounded. The stones interfere seriously with till- 
age, and naturally the soils are best planted with 
forest or fruit. 

Clay Soils. — Clay soils are mixtures of sand, silt, 



30 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

clay and humus, the clay existing in quite large 
quantities, there being a greater preponderance of 
the clay characteristics than in the clay loams; 
they are very heavy, sticky, and difficult to manage. 
Some clay soils are not worth farming. Those that 
can be profitably tilled are adapted to wheat, corn, 
hay and pasture. 

Adobe Soils. — These are peculiar soils of the dry 
West. They are mixtures of clay, silt, some sand 
and large amounts of humus. Their peculiar char- 
acteristic is that they are very sticky when wet and 
bake very hard when dry and are, therefore, very 
difficult to manage, though they are generally very 
productive when they are moist enough to support 
crops. 

Swamp Muck is a dark brown or black swamp 
soil consisting of large amounts of humus or decay- 
ing organic matter mixed with some fine sand and 
clay. It is found in low wet places. 

Peat is also largely vegetable matter, consisting 
of tough roots, partially decayed leaves, moss, etc. 
It is quite dense and compact and in some regions 
is used for fuel. 

HOW WERE SOILS MADE? 

As a help in finding the answer to this question 
collect and examine a number of the following or 
similar specimens : 

Brick. — ^Take pieces of brick and rub them to- 
gether. A fine powder or dust will be the result. 



SOILS 3 1 

Stones. — ^Rub together pieces of stone; the same 
result will follow, except that the dust will be finer 
and will be produced with greater difficulty because 
the stones are harder. Some stones will be found 
which will grind others without being much affected . 
themselves. 

Rock Salt or Cattle Salt, — This is a soft rock, 
easily broken. Place on a slate or platter one or 
two pieces about the size of an egg or the size of 
your fist. Slowly drop water on them till it runs 
down and partly covers the slate, then set away 
till the water dries up. Fine particles of salt will 
be found on the slate wherever the water ran and 
dried. This is because the water dissolved some of 
the rock. 

Lime Stone, — This is harden Crush two samples 
to a fine powder and place one in water and the 
other in vinegar. Water has apparently no effect 
on it, but small bubbles are seen to rise from the 
sample in vinegar. The vinegar which is a weak 
acid is slowly dissolving the rock. The chemists 
tell us water will also dissolve the limestone, but 
very slowly. There are large areas of soil which 
are the refuse from the dissolving of great masses 
of limestone. 

We find that the rocks about us differ in hard- 
ness: they are ground to powder when rubbed to- 
gether, some are easily dissolved in water, others 
are dissolved by weak acids. 

Geologists tell us that the whole crust of the 
earth was at one time made up of rocks, part of 



32 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

which have been broken down into coarse and fine 
particles which form the gravel, sand and clay of 
our soils. The organic matter of our soils has been 
added by the decay of plants and animajs. Several 
agencies have been active in this work of breaking 
down the rocks and making soils of them. If we 
look about we can perhaps see some of this work 
going on now. 

Work of the Sun. — Examine a crockery plate or 
dish that has been 'many times in and out of a hot 
oven, noticing the little cracks all over its surface. 
Most substances expand when they are heated and 
contract when they are cooled. When the plate is 
placed in the oven the surface heats faster than the 
inner parts, and cools faster when taken out of the 
oven. The result is that there is unequal expansion 
and contraction in the plate and consequently ten- 
sion or pulling of its parts against each other. The 
weaker part gives way and a crack appears. If hot 
water is put into a thick glass tumbler or bottle, 
the inner surface heats and expands faster than the 
outer parts and the result is tension and cracking. 
If cold water be poured on a warm bottle or piece 
of warm glass, it cracks, because there is unequal 
contraction. In the early part of a bright sunny after- 
noon feel of the surface of exposed rocks, bricks, 
boards, or buildings on which the sun has been shin- 
ing. Examine them in the same way early the next 
morning. You will find that the rocks are heated 
by the sun just as the plate was heated when put 
into the oven, and when the sun goes down the 




FIG. 19. — COMPARING SOILS. 




FIG. 20. — WATER-TEST OF SOILS. 



Bottle A contains sand and water, bottle B clay and water. 
The sand settles quickly, the clay very slowly. 



SOILS 33 

rocks cool again. This causes tension in the rocks 
and little cracks and checks appear in them just as 
in the heated plate, only more slowly. This check- 
ing may also be brought about by a cool shower 
falling on the sun heated rocks just as the cool 
water cracked the warm glass. Many rocks if ex- 
amined closely will be found to be composed of sev- 
eral materials. These materials do not expand and 
contract alike when heated and cooled and the ten- 
dency for them to check is greater even than that 
of the plate. This is the case with most rocks. 

Work of Rain.' — Rain falling on the rocks may 
dissolve a part of them just as it dissolved the rock 
salt ; or, working into the small cracks made by the 
sun, may wash out loosened particles; or, during 
cold weather it may freeze in the cracks and by its 
expansion chip off small pieces; or, getting into 
large cracks and freezing, may split the rock just 
as freezing water splits a water pitcher or the water 
pipes. 

Work of Moving Water. — ^Visit some neighbor- 
ing beach or the banks of somie rapid stream. See 
how the waves are rolling the sand and pebbles up 
and down the beach, grinding them together, round- 
ing their corners and edges, throwing them up into 
sand beds, and carrying off the finer particles to 
deposit elsewhere. Now visit a quiet cove or inlet 
and see how the quiet water is laying down the fine 
particles, making a clay bed. Notice also how the 
water plants along the border are helping. They 
act as an immense strainer, collecting the suspended 
3 



34 



THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 



particles from the water, and with them and their 
bodies building beds of soil rich in organic matter 
or humus. 

The sun, besides expanding and cracking the 
rocks by its heat, helps in another way to make 
soils. It warms the water that has been grinding 
soil on the beach or along the river banks and 
causes some of it to evaporate. This vapor rises, 
forms a cloud and floats away in the air. By and 
by the vapor forms into rain drops which may fall 
on the top of some mountain. These rain drops 
may wash loosened particles from the surface or 
crevices of exposed rocks. These drops are joined 
by others until, by and by, they form a little stream 
which carries its small burden of rock dust down 
the slope, now dropping some particles, now taking 
up others. Other little streams join this one until 
they form a brook which increases in size and power 
as it descends the mountain side. As it grows by 
the addition of other streams it picks up larger 
pieces, grinds them together, grinds at its banks 
and loads itself with rocks, pebbles, sand and clay. 
As the stream reaches the lower part of the moun- 
tain where the slope is less steep, it is checked in 
its course and the larger stones and pebbles are 
dropped while the sand and finer particles are car- 
ried on and deposited on the bottom of some broad 
quiet river farther down, and when the river over- 
flows its banks, are distributed over the neighbor- 
ing meadows, giving them a new coating of soil 
and often adding to their fertility. What a river 



SOILS 35 

does not leave along its course it carries out to sea 
to help build the sand bars and mud flats there. 
The rain drops have now gotten back to the beach 
where they take up again the work of grinding the 
soil. 

The work of moving water can be seen in almost 
any road or cultivated field during or just after a 
rain, and particularly on the hillsides, where often 
the soil is loosened and carried from higher to 
lower parts, making barren sand and clay banks of 
fertile hillsides and destroying the fertility of the 
bottom lands below. 

We have already noticed the work of freezing 
water in splitting small and large fragments from 
the rocks. Water moving over the surface of the 
earth in a solid form, or ice, was at an earlier period 
in the history of the earth one of the most power- 
ful agencies in soil formation. Away up in Green- 
land and on the northern border of this continent 
the temperature is so low that most if not all of 
the moisture that falls on the earth falls as snow. 
This snow has piled up until it has become very 
deep and very heavy. The great weight has packed 
the bottom of this great snow bank to ice. On the 
mountains where the land was not level the masses 
of snow and ice, centuries ago, began to slide down 
the slopes and finally formed great rivers of solid 
water or moving ice. 

The geologists tell us that at one time a great 
river of ice extended from the Arctic region as far 
south as central Pennsylvania and from New Eng- 



36' THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

land to the Rocky Mountains. This vast river was 
very deep and very heavy and into its under sur- 
face were frozen sand, pebbles, larger stones and 
even great rocks. Thus it acted as a great rasp or 
file and did an immense amount of work grinding 
rocks and making soils. It ground down moun- 
tains and carried great beds of soil from one place 
to another. When this great ice river rpelted, it 
dropped its load of rocks and soils, and as a result 
we find in that region of the country great boulders 
and beds of sand and clay scattered over the land. 

Work of the Air. — The air has helped in the 
work of wearing down the rocks and making soils. 
If a piece of iron be exposed to moist air a part of 
the air unites with part of the iron and forms iron 
rust. In the same way when moist air comes in 
contact with some rocks part of the air unites with 
part of the rock and forms rock rust which crum- 
bles off or is washed away by water. Thus the air 
helps to break down the rocks. Moving air or 
wind picks up dust particles and carries them from 
one field to another. On sandy beaches the wind 
often blows the sand along like snow and piles it 
into drifts. The entire surface of sandy regions is 
sometimes changed in this way. Sands blown from 
deserts sometimes bury forests which with their 
foliage sift the fatal winding sheet from the dust- 
laden winds. 

The Work of Plants. — Living plants sometimes 
send their roots into rock crevices ; there they grow, 
expand, and split off rock fragments. Certain kinds 



SOILS 



37 



of plants live on the surface of rocks. They feed 
on the rocks and when they die and decay they keep 
the surface of the rocks moist and also produce 
carbonic acid which dissolves the rocks slowly just 
as the vinegar dissolved the limestone in our ex- 
periment. 

Dead decaying roots, stems, and leaves of plants 
form largely the organic matter of the soil. When 
organic matter has undergone a certain amount of 
decay it is called humus, and these soils are called 
organic soils or humus soils. The black soils of 
the woods, swamps and prairies, contain large 
amounts of humus. 

Work of Animals. — Earth worms and the larvae 
of insects which burrow in the soil eat soil particles 
which pass through their bodies and are partially 
dissolved. These particles are generally cast out 
on the surface of the soil. Thus these little animals 
help to move soil, to dissolve soil, and to open up 
passages for the entrance of air and rain. 

SOIL TEXTURE 

We have seen that the soil particles vary in size 
and that for the best development of the plant the 
particles of the soil must be so arranged that the 
delicate rootlets can readily push their way about 
in search of food, or, in other words, that the soil 
must have a certain texture. By the texture of 
the soil we mean the size of its particles and their 
relation to each other. The following terms are 



38 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

used in describing soil textures : Coarse, fine, open, 
close, loose, hard, stiff, compact, soft, mellow, por- 
ous, leachy, retentive, cloddy, lumpy, light, heavy. 
Which of these terms will apply to the texture of 
sand, which to clay, which to humus, which to the 
garden soil, which to a soil that plant roots can 
easily penetrate? We find then that texture of the 
soil depends largely on the relative amounts of 
sand, silt, clay and humus that it contains. 



CHAPTER IV 
Relation of Soils to Water 

importance of water to plants 

We learned in a previous paragraph that plant 
roots take moisture from the soil. What becomes 
of this moisture? We will answer this question 
with an experiment. 

Experiment. — ^Take a pot or tumbler in which a 
young plant is growing, also a piece of pasteboard 
large enough to cover the top of the pot or tum- 
bler; cut a slit from the edge to the centre of the 
board, then place it on top of the pot, letting the 
stem of the plant enter the slit. Now close the 
slit with wax or tallow, making it perfectly tight 
about the stem. If the plant is not too large invert 
a tumbler over it (Fig. 21), letting the edge of the 
tumbler rest oh the pasteboard; if a tumbler is not 
large enough use a glass jar. Place in a sunny 
window. Moisture will be seen collecting on the 
inner surface of the glass. Where does this come 
from ? It is absorbed from the soil by the roots of 
the plant and is sent with its load of dissolved plant 
food up through the stem to the leaves. There most 
of the moisture is passed from the leaves to the air 
and some of it is condensed on the side of the glass. 

39 



40 THE FIRST BCX)K OF FARMING 

By experiments at the Cornell University Agri- 
cultural Experiment Station, Ithaca, N. Y., it has 
been found that during the growth of a sixty bushel 
crop of com the plants pump from the soil by 
means of their roots, and send into the air through 
their leaves over nine hundred tons of Vater. A 
twenty-five bushel crop of wheat uses over five hun- 
dred tons of water in the same, way. This gives 
us some idea of the importance of water to the 
plant and the necessity of knowing something of 
the power of the soil to absorb and hold moisture 
for the use of the plant. Also the importance of 
knowing if we can in any way control or influence 
the water-holding power of the soil for the good of 
the plant. 

SOURCES OF SOIL WATER 

From what sources does the soil receive water? 
From the air above, in the form of rain, dew, hail 
and snow, falling on the surface, and from the 
lower soil. This water enters the soil more or less 
rapidly. . 

ATTITUDE OF THE SOILS TOWARDS WATER 

Which soils have the greater power to take in the 
rain which falls on their surface? 

Experiment. — Take four student-lamp chimneys. 
(In case the chimneys cannot be found get some 
slender bottles like salad oil bottles or wine bottles 
and cut the bottoms off with a hot rod. While the 




FIG. 21. 

To show what becomes of the water taken from the soil by 
roots. Moisture, sent up from the roots, has been given off 
by the leaves and has condensed on the glass. 




A. B. C. D. 

FIG. 22. — PERCOLATION EXPERIMENT. 

To show the relative powers of soils to take in water falling 
on the surface. A, sand ; B, clay ; C, humus ; D, garden soil 



RELATION OF SOILS TO WATER 4 1 

rod is heating make a shallow notch in the glass 
with the wet corner of a file in the direction you 
wish to make the cut. When the rod is hot lay the 
end of it lengthwise on the notch. Very soon a 
little crack will be seen to start from the notch. 
Lead this crack around the bottle with the hot rod 
and the bottom of the bottle will drop off.) (Fig. 
23.) Make a rack to hold them. Tie a piece of cheese 
cloth or other thin cloth over the small ends of the 
chimneys. Then fill them nearly full respectively, 
of dry, sifted, coarse sand, clay, humus soil, and gar- 
den soil. Place them in the rack ; place under them 
a pan or dish. Pour water in the upper ends of the 
tubes until it soaks through and drips from the 
lower end (Fig. 22). Ordinary sunburner lamp 
chimneys may be used for the experiment by tying 
the cloth over the tops ; then invert them, fill them 
with soil and set in plates or pans. The sand will 
take the water in and let it run through quickly; 
the clay is very slow to take it in and let it run 
through; the humus soil takes the water in quite 
readily. Repeat the experiment with one of the 
soils, packing the soil tightly in one tube and leav- 
ing it loose in another. The water will be found 
to penetrate the loose soil more rapidly than the 
packed soil. We see then that the power of the 
soil to take in rainfall depends on its texture or the 
size and compactness of the particles. 

If the soil of our farm is largely clay, what hap- 
pens to the rain that falls on it? The clay takes 
the water in so slowly that most of it runs off and 



42 



?rHE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 



is lost. Very likely it carries with it some of the 
surface soil which it has soaked and loosened, and 
thus leaves the farm washed and gullied. 

What can we do for our clay soils to help them 
to absorb the rain more rapidly? For immediate 
results we can plow them and keep them loose and 
open with the tillage tools. For more permanent 
results we may mix sand with them, but sand is 
not always to be obtained and is expensive to haul. 
The best method is to mix organic matter with 
them by plowing in stable manures, or woods soil, 
or decayed leaves, or by growing crops and turning 
them under. The organic matter not only loosens 
the soil but also adds plant food to it, and during 
its decay produces carbonic acid which helps to 
dissolve the mineral matter and make available the 
plant food that is in it. 

Clay soils can also be made loose and open by 
applying lime to them. 

Experiment. — Take two bottles or jars, put 
therein a few spoonsful of clay soil, fill with water, 
put a little lime in one of them, shake both and set 
them on the table. It will be noticed that the clay 
in the bottle containing lime settles in flakes or 
crumbs, and much faster than in the other bottle. 
In the same manner, lime applied to a field of clay 
has a tendency to collect the very fine particles of 
soil into flakes or crumbs and give it somewhat the 
open texture of a sandy soil. Lime is applied to 
soil for this purpose at the rate of twenty bushels 
per acre once in four or five years. 



RELATION OF SOILS TO WATER 



43 



Which soils have the greater power to absorb or 
pump moisture from below ? 

Experiment.— Use the same or a similar set of 
tubes as in the experiment illustrated in Fig. 23. Fill 
the tubes with the same kinds of dry sifted soils. 
Then pour water into the pan or dish beneath the 
tubes until it rises a quarter of an inch above the 
lower end of the tubes (Fig. 24). Watch the water 
rise in the soils. The water will be found to rise 
rapidly in the sand about two or three inches and 
then stop or continue very slowly a short distance 
further. In the clay it starts very slowly, but after 
several hours is finally carried to the top of the soil. 
The organic matter takes it up less rapidly than 
the sand, faster than the clay, and finally carries it 
to the top. By this and further experiments it will 
be found that the power of soils to take moisture 
from below depends on their texture or the size 
and closeness of their particles. 

We found the sand pumped the water only a short 
distance and then stopped. 

What can we do for our sandy soils to give them 
greater power to take moisture from below? For 
immediate results we can compact them by rolling 
or packing. This brings the particles closer to- 
gether, makes the spaces between them smaller, and 
therefore allows the water to climb higher. For 
more lasting results we can fill them with organic 
matter in the shape of stable manures or crops 
turned under. Clay may be used, but is expensive 
to haul. 



44 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

Which soils have greatest power to hold the water 
which enters them ? 

Experiment. — Use the same or similar apparatus 
as for the last experiment. After placing the cloth 
caps over the ends of the tubes label and care- 
fully weigh each one, keeping a record of each; 
then fill them with the dry soils and weigh again. 
Now place the tubes in the rack and pour water in 
the upper ends until the entire soil is wet; cover 
the tops and allow the surplus water to drain out; 
when the dripping stops, weigh the tubes again, 
and by subtraction find the amount of water held 
by the soil in each tube; compute the percentage. 
It will be found that the organic matter will hold 
a much larger percentage of water than the other 
soils; and the clay more than the sand. The tube 
of organic soil will actually hold a larger amount 
of water than the other tubes. (See also Fig. 25.) 

In the experiment on page 40 we noticed that 
the sand took in the water poured on its surface 
and let it run through very quickly. This is a fault 
of sandy soils. 

What can we do for our sandy soils to help them 
to hold better the moisture which falls on them and 
tends to leach through them ? For immediate effect 
we can close the pores somewhat by compacting 
the soil with the roller. For more lasting effects, 
we can fill them with organic matter. 

Which soils will hold longest the water which 
they have absorbed? Or which soils will keep 
moist longest in dry weather? 




FIG. 23. 

To show how bottles may be used in place of lamp chimneys 
shown in Figs. 22 and 24^ 




I 

FIG. 24. — CAPILLARITY OF SOILS. 

To show the relative powers of soils to take water from below. 



< 

> 



£ £ 5 £ £' ^ 






g 



Id aa 



o 

A 



Q 









I 



III 



c 
O 



< 



Q 



< < 
V3 VS 



i C - 

f' "^ c 

u a y6 

3£ 5 ^ 



H 






s < 



RELATION OF SOILS TO WATER 



45 



Experiment — Fill a pan or bucket with moist 
sand, another with moist clay, and a third with 
moist organic matter; set them in the sun to dry 
and notice which dries last. The organic matter 
will be found to hold moisture much longer than 
the other soils. The power of the other soils to 
hold moisture through dry weather can be improved 
by mixing organic matter with them. 

We find then that the power of soils to absorb 
and hold moisture depends on the amount of sand, 
clay, or humus which they contain, and the com- 
pactness of the particles. We see also how useful 
organic matter is in improving sandy and clayey 
soils. 

THE EFFECT OF WORKING SOILS WHEN WET 

By this time the soils we left in the pans (see 
page 26), sand, clay, humus and garden soil, must 
be dry. If so, examine them.. We find that the clay 
which was stirred when wet has dried into an al- 
most bricklike mass, while that which was not 
stirred is not so hard, though it has a thick, hard 
crust. The sand is not much affected by stirring 
when wet. The organic matter which was stirred 
when wet has perhaps stiffened a little, but very 
easily crumbles; the unstirred part was not much 
affected by the wetting and drying. 

The garden soil after drying is not as stiff as the 
clay nor as loose as the sand and humus. This 
is because it is very likely a mixture of all three, 



46 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

the sand and the humus checking the baking. This 
teaches us that it is not a good plan to work soils 
when they are wet if they are stiff and sticky ; and 
that our stiff clay soils can be kept from drying 
hard or baking by the use of organic matter. " And 
that's a witness " for organic matter. 

The relation of the soil to moisture is very im- 
portant, for moisture is one of the greatest factors if 
not the greatest in the growth of the crop. 

The power to absorb or soak up moisture from 
any source is greatest in those soils whose particles 
are smaller and fit closer together. 

It is for this reason that strong loams and clay 
soils absorb and hold three times as much water 
as sandy soils do, while peaty or humus soils ab- 
sorb a still larger proportion. 

The reason why crops burn up so quickly on 
sandy soils during dry seasons is because of their 
weak power to hold water. 

The clay and humus soils carry crops through 
dry weather better because of their power to hold 
moisture and to absorb or soak up moisture from 
below. It is for this reason also that clay arid peaty 
soils more often need draining than sandy soils. 

When rain falls on a sandy soil it enters readily, , 
but it is apt to pass rapidly down and be, to a great 
extent, lost in the subsoil, for the sand has not 
sufficient power to hold much of it. 

When rain falls on a clay soil it enters less read- 
ily because of the closeness of the particles, and 
during long rains or heavy showers some of the 



RELATION OF SOILS TO WATERS 



47 



water may run oflF the surface. If the surface has 
been recently broken and softened with the plow 
or cultivator the rain enters more readily. What 
does enter is held and is not allowed to run through 
as in the case of the sand. 

Humus soil absorbs the rain as readily as the 
sand and holds it with a firmer grip than clay. 

This fact gives us a hint as to how we may im- 
prove the sand and clay. 

Organic matter mixed with these soils by applying 
manures or plowing under green crops will cause 
the sand to hold the rain better and the clay to ab- 
sorb it more readily. 



CHAPTER V 

Forms of Soil Water 

Water which comes to the soil and is absorbed 
exists in the soil principally in two forms: Free 
water and capillary water. 

free water 

Free water is that form of water which fills our 
wells, is found in the bottoms of holes dug in the 
ground during wet seasons and is often found 
standing on the surface of the soil after heavy or 
long continued rains. It is sometimes called ground 
water or standing water and flows under the in- 
fluence of gravity. 

Is free water good for the roots of farm plants? 
If we remember how the root takes its food and 
moisture, namely through the delicate root hairs; 
and also remember the experiment which showed 
us that roots need air, we can readily see that free 
water would give the root hairs enough moisture, 
but it would at the same time drown them by cut- 
ting off the air. Therefore free water is not di- 
rectly useful to the roots of house plants or farm 
plants, excepting such as are naturally swamp 

48 




FIG. 26.^-CAPILLARY TUBES. 

To show how water rises in small tubes or is drawn into small 
spaces. 




FIG. 27. — CAPILLARY PLATES. 

Water is drawn to the highest point where the glass plates 
are closest together. 




FIG. 28. 

A cone of soil to show capillarity. Water poured about the 
base of this cone of soil has been drawn by capillary force 
half-way to the top. 



"1 




A. B, C. D. 

FIG. 29. 

To show the relative amounts of film-moisture held by 
coarse and fine soils. The colored water in bottle A repre- 
sents the amount of water required to cover the half pound 
of pebbles in the tumbler B with a film of moisture. The col- 
ored waer in bottle C shows the amount required to cover the 
soil grains in the half pound of sand in tumbler D. 



FORMS OF SOIL WATER * 49 

plants, like rice, which grows part of the time with 
its roots covered with free water. 



CAPILLARY WATER 

If you will take a number of glass tubes of diflFer- 
ent sizes, the largest not more than one-fourth of 
an inch in diameter, and hold them with one end 
of each in water or some colored liquid, you will 
notice that the water rises in the tubes (Fig. 26), 
and that it rises highest in the smallest tube. The 
force which causes the water to rise in these tubes 
is called the capillary force, from the old Latin 
word capillum (a hair), because it is most marked 
in hair-like tubes, the smaller the tube the higher 
the water will rise. The water which rises in the 
tubes is called capillary water. 

Another method of illustrating capillary water is 
to tie or hold together two flat pieces of glass, keep- 
ing two of the edges close together and separating 
the opposite two about one-eighth of an inch with a 
sliver of wood. Then set them in a plate of water 
or colored liquid and notice how the water rises 
between the pieces of glass, rising higher the smaller 
the space (Fig. 27). It is the capillary force which 
causes water to rise in a piece of cloth or paper 
dipped in water. 

Take a plate and pour onto it a cone-shaped pile 
of dry sand or fine soil; then pour water around 
the base of the pile and note how the water is drawn 
up into the soil by capillary force (Fig. 28). 
4 



50 



THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 



Capillary water is the other important form of 
water in the soil. This is moisture which is drawn 
by capillary force or soaks into the spaces between 
the soil particles and covers each particle with a 
thin film of moisture. 

FILM WATER 

Take a marble or a pebble, dip it into water and 
notice the thin layer or film of water that clings to 
it. This is a form of capillary water and is some- 
times called film water or film moisture. Take a 
handful of soil that is moist but not wet, notice 
that it does not wet the hand, and yet there is 
moisture all through it; each particle is covered 
with a very thin film of water. 

Now this film water is just the form of water 
that can supply the very slender root hairs without 
drowning them, that is, without keeping the air 
from them. And the plant grower should see to it 
that the roots of his plants are well supplied with 
film water and are not drowned by the presence of 
free water. Capillary water may sometimes com- 
pletely fill the spaces between the soil particles; 
when this occurs the roots are drowned just as in 
the case of free water as we saw when cuttings 
were placed in the puddled clay (see Fig. i8). Free 
water is indirectly of use to the plant because it 
serves as a supply for capillary and film moisture. 

Now I think we can answer the question which 
was asked when we were studying the habit of 



FORMS OF SOIL WATER 



51 



growth of roots but was left unanswered at the 
time (see page 14). The question was this: Of 
what value is it to the farmer to know that roots 
enter the soil to a depth of three to six feet? We 
know that roots will not grow without air. We 
also know that if the soil is full of free water 
there is no air in it, and, therefore, roots of most 
plants will not grow in it. It is, therefore, of interest 
to the farmer to see that free water does not come 
within at least three or four feet of the surface of the 
soil so that the roots of his crops may have plenty of 
well ventilated soil in which to develop. If there 
is a tendency for free water to fill the soil a large 
part of the time, the farmer can get rid of it by 
draining the land. We get here a lesson for the 
grower of house plants also. It is that we must 
be careful that the soil in the pots or boxes in which 
our plants are growing is always supplied with film 
water and not wet and soggy with free water. 
Water should not be left standing long in the sau- 
cer under the pot of a growing plant. It is best to 
water the pot from the top and let the surplus water 
drain into the saucer and then empty it out. 

Which soils have the greatest capacity for film 
water? 

Experiment. — Place in a tumbler or bottle one- 
half pound of pebbles about the size of a pea or 
bean ; pour a few drops of water on them and shake 
them ; continue adding water and shaking them till 
every pebble is covered with a film of water; let 
any surplus water drain off. Then weigh again; 



52 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

the difference in the two weights will be approxi- 
mately the weight of the film water that the pebbles 
can carry. Repeat this with sand and compare the 
two amounts of water. A striking illustration can 
be made by taking two slender bottles and placing 
in them amounts of colored water equal to the 
amounts of film water held by the pebbles and sand 
respectively. In the accompanying illustration (Fig. 
29), A represents the amount of water that was 
found necessary to cover the pebbles in tumbler B 
with a film of moisture. C is the amount that was 
necessary to cover with a film the particles of sand 
in D. The finer soil has the greater area for film 
moisture. It has been estimated that the particles 
of a cubic foot of clay loam have a possible aggre- 
gate film surface of three-fourths of an acre. 



CHAPTER VI 
Loss OF Soil Water 

LOSS OF SOIL WATER AND MEANS OF CHECKING ' 
THE LOSS 

We noticed in previous paragraphs that soil might 
at times have too much water in it for proper ven- 
tilation and so check the growth of the roots of the 
plant. Now is it possible that soil water may be 
lost or wasted and if so can we check the loss? 

In the experiment to find out how well the soils 
would take in the rainfall (page 40) we noticed 
that the clay soil took in the water very slowly and 
that on a field of clay soil part of the rain water 
would be likely to run off over the surface and 
be lost. Free water may be lost then, by surface 
wash. 

We noticed methods of checking this loss, namely, 
pulverizing the soil with the tillage tools and putting 
organic matter into it to make it absorb the rain 
more readily. 

We noticed that water ppured on the sand ran 
through it very quickly and was apt to be lost by 
leaching or percolation. This we found could be 
checked by rolling the soil and by putting organic 
matter into it to close the pores. 

53 



54 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

We learned that roots take water from the soil 
for the use of the plant and send it up to the leaves, 
.which in turn send it out into the air, or transpire 
it, as this process is called. We learned also that 
the amount transpired. is very great. Now water 
that is pumped up and transpired by the crops we 
are growing we consider properly used. But when 
. weeds grow with the crop and pump and transpire 
water we consider this water as lost or wasted. 

Water may be lost then by being pumped up and 
transpired by weeds. And this is the way weeds do 
their greatest injury to crops during dry weather. 
The remedy is easily pointed out. Kill the weeds 
or do not let them get a start. 

There is another way, which we are not apt to 
notice, by which water may be lost from the soil. 
When the soil in the pans in a previous experiment 
(page 26) had been wet and set aside a few days 
it became very dry. How did the water get out 
of this soil? That at the surface of the soil evap- 
orated or was changed into vapor and passed into 
the air. Then water from below the surface was 
pumped up by capillary force to take its place just 
as the water was pumped up in the tubes of soil. 
This in turn was evaporated and the process re- 
peated till all of the water in the soil had passed 
into the air. Now this process is going on in the 
field whenever it is not raining or the ground is 
not frozen very hard. 

Water then may be lost by evaporation. 

How can we check this loss? 



LOSS OF SOIL WATER 55 

Suppose we try the experiment of covering the 
soil with some material that cannot pump water 
readily. 

Experiment. — Take four glass fruit jars, two- 
quart size, with straight sides. If you cannot get 
them with straight sides cut off the tops with a hot 
iron just below the shoulder ; tin pails will do if the 
glass jars cannot be had. Fill these with moist soil 
from the field or garden, packing it till it is as hard 
as the unplowed or unspaded soil. Leave one of 
them in this condition ; from two of them -remove 
an inch or two of soil and replace it in the case of 
one with clean, dry, coarse sand, and in the case of 
the other with chaff or straw cut into half-inch 
lengths. Stir the soil in the fourth one to a depth 
of one inch, leaving it light and crumbly. Now 
weigh the jars and set them aside. Weigh each 
day for several days. The four jars illustrated in 
Fig. 30 were prepared in this way and allowed to 
stand seven days. In that time they lost the follow- 
ing amounts of water : 

Amounts of water lost from jars of prepared 
soil in seven days. 

No. I packed soil — lost 5.5 oz. equal to about 75 
tons per acre. 

No. 2 covered with straw — lost 2 oz. equal to 
about 2^ tons per acre. 

No. 3 covered with dry sand — lost o oz. equal to 
about o tons per acre. 

No. 4 covered with crumbled soil — lost 2.5 oz., 
equal to about 34 tons per acre. 



56 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

Why did not 2, 3 and 4 lose as much water as 
No. I? 

The soil in jar No. i was packed and water was 
pumped to the surface by capillary force and was 
evaporated as fast as it came to the surface. 

In No. 2 the water could rise rapidly until it 
reached the straw, then it was stopped almost en- 
tirely. But the straw being coarse, the air circu- 
lated in it more or less freely and there was a slow 
loss by evaporation. In jar No. 3 the water could 
rise only to the sand, which was so coarse that the 
water could not climb on it to the surface, and the 
air circulated in the sand so slowly that there was 
not sufficient evaporation to affect scales weighing 
to one-quarter ounce. No. 4 lost less than No. i 
because, as in the case of the sand, the water could 
not climb rapidly to the surface on the coarse crumbs 
of soil. The loss that did take place from No. 4 
was what the air took from the loosely stirred soil 
on the surface with a very little from the lower 
soil. Simply stirring the surface of the soil in No. 
4 reduced the loss of water to less than half the 
loss from the hard soil in No. i. 

This experiment gives us the clew to the method 
of checking loss of water from the soil by evapora- 
tion. It is to keep the water from climbing up to 
the surface, or check the power of the soil to pump 
the water to the surface by making it loose on top. 
This loose soil is called a soil mulch. Everything 
that we do to the soil that loosens and crumbles the 
surface tends to check the loss of water by evapora- 
tion from the soil below. 






o a> 




rt ^ O. 














C -M 




Srs^ 


» 


2 ° §• 


•J 


ns per acr 
ater, equa 
ter, equal 
ozs. water. 




O ? rt 


< 


*- ^ ^ in 


g 






■g ?.<« .^ 


b, 




5- rt >» - 






H 


4> C ^ O 




^ .s c ^* 


1 


^ to ♦- -n 


(A 


5 ozs. 
raw, lo 
nd, los 
il mule 


? 




lO -M <s o 


4 


UJ <« to 


?.^^^ 




c2 .ti .ti .ti 


r 


•^ ^ ^ ^ 


»^-0 -O T3 




C o a; o 




.= u u u 




. o « a> 




to > ^ > 




J 8 8 8 










Tifrs rzs rs 




o o o o 




CO CO (O CO 




•o -o -o -o 




o; o; o <u 




•g-g-3-t5 




c« cd cd c« 




fU, PL^ f^ fl^ 



i-i 01 CO Tf 




FIG. 31. — ^SOIL TEMPERATURE EXPEMilEKI. 

Thermometer in pot of soil. 



CHAPTER VII 
Soil Temperature 

We learned that roots need heat for their growth 
and development. Now what is the relation of the 
different kinds of soil toward heat or what are their 
relative powers to absorb and hold heat? 

Experiment* — Some days before this experiment, 
spread on a dry floor about a half bushel each of 
sand, clay and decayed leaf mould or black woods 
soil. Stir them occasionally till they are thoroughly 
dry. When they are dry place them separately in 
three boxes or large flower pots and keep dry. In 
three similar boxes or pots place wet sand, wet clay, 
and wet humus. Place a thermometer in each of 
the soils, placing the bulb between one and two 
inches below the surface (Fig. 31). Then place 
the soils out of doors where the sun can shine on 
them and leave them several days. If a rain should 
come up protect the dry soils. Observe and make 
a record of the temperatures of each soil several 
times a day. Chart the average of several days ob- 
servations. Fig. 32 shows the averages of several 
days observations on a certain set of soils. 

It will be noticed that the temperature of the 
soils increased until the early part of the afternoon 
and after that time they lost heat. 

57 



58 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

HOW SOILS ARE WARMED 

Experiment. — Hold your hand in bright sunlight 
or near a warm stove or radiator. Your hand is 
warmed by heat radiated from the sun or warm 
stove through the air to your body. In the same 
manner the rays of the sun heat the surface of the 
soil. 

Experiment. — ^Take the stove poker or any small 
iron rod and hold one end of it in the fire or hold 
one end of a piece of wire in a candle or lamp flame. 
The end of the rod or wire will quickly become 
very hot and heat will gradually be carried its en- 
tire length until it becomes too hot to hold. This 
carrying of the heat from particle to particle through 
the length of the rod is called heating by conduc- 
tion. Now when the warm rays of the sun reach 
the soil, or a warm wind blows over it, the surface 
particles are warmed and then pass the heat on to 
the next ones below, and these in turn pass it to 
others and so on till the soil becomes heated to a 
considerable depth by conduction. 

A clay soil will absorb heat by conduction faster 
than a sandy soil because the particles of the clay 
lie so close together that the heat passes more read- 
ily from one to another than in the case of the 
coarser sand. 

If the soil is open and porous, warm air and 
warm rains can enter readily and carry heat to 
the lower soil. 

You have noticed how a pile of stable manure 



SOIL TEMPERATURE 



59 



steams in cold weather. You doubtless know that 
manure from the horse stable is often used to furn- 
ish heat for hotbeds and for sweet potato beds. 

'Now the heat which warms the manure and sends 
the steam out of it, and warms the hotbed and sweet 
potato bed, is produced by the decaying or rotting 
of the manure. More or less heat is produced by 
the decay of all kinds of organic matter. So if 
the soil is well supplied with organic matter, the 
decay of this material will add somewhat to the 
warmth of the soil. 

HOW SOILS LOSE HEAT 

Wet one of your fingers and hold your hand up 
in the air. The wet finger will feel colder than the 
others and will gradually become dry. This is be- 
cause some of the heat of your finger is being used 
to dry up the water or change it into a vapor, or in 
other words to evaporate it. 

In the same manner a wet soil loses heat by the 
evaporation of water from its surface. 

Experiment. — Heat an iron rod, take it from the 
fire and hold it near your face or hand. You will 
feel the heat without touching the rod. The heat 
is radiated from the rod through the air to your 
body and the rod gradually cools. In the same way 
the soil may lose its heat by radiating it into the 
air. A clay soil will lose more heat by radiation 
than a sandy soil because the clay is more compact. 



6o THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

CONDITIONS WHICH INFLUENCE SOIL TEMPERATURE 

It will be noticed that the dry soils are warmer 
than the wet ones. Why is this ? Scientists tell us 
that it takes a great deal more heat to warm water 
than it does to warm other substances. Therefore 
when soil is wet it takes much more heat to warm 
it than if it were dry. 

It will be seen that of the dry soils the humus is 
the warmest. Why? 

Experiment. — Take two thermometers, wrap the 
bulb of one with a piece of blagk or dark colored 
cloth and the bulb of the other with a piece of white 
cloth, then place them where the sun will shine on 
the cloth covered bulbs. The mercury in both ther- 
mometers will be seen to rise, but in the thermom- 
eter with the dark cloth about the bulb it will rise 
faster and higher than in the other. This shows 
that the dark cloth absorbs heat faster than the 
white cloth. In the same manner a dark soil will 
absorb heat faster than a light colored soil; there- 
fore it will be warmer if dry. 

Why was the dry clay warmer than the dry sand? 

Because its darker color helped it to absorb heat 
more rapidly than the sand, and, as the particles 
were smaller and more compact, heat was carried 
into it more rapidly by conduction. 

Why were the wet humus and clay cooler than 
the wet sand? 

As they were darkef in color and the clay was 
more compact than the sand, they must have ab- 





^ \ 




i 1 


* 


i 




(\ 




ill 


i 




\ 


\ 




i 






\ 








ill 

— « 


1 


I 






> 

KG 



o 



bo 



3 



•5 " 





i 


^ 


\y^ 


t ^ \ 






' 








i 


/ 


II 








•• 


( 








^ 


i 


1 






i^ 


■: 






v\ 






ki 






\^ 












v\ 






2 






^ 






ff 


5 




\li 






-i 








^ 




e 








\\ 




M 


5 






^ 








1 1 i 


w 


\ 






>- 


§ ^-o 


\\ 


\ 






S 


§ J 5 


\ 


V 




5 




CUM 


* 


U T 




Si \ 


t 1 


t 1 


^ 1l 



3 

e 

J3 



3 
■♦-• 

2 

a 



bo 



bo 

c 

o 



U 



SOIL TEMPERATURE 6 1 

sorbed more heat, but they also held more water, 
and, therefore, lost more heat by evaporation. 

Of the dry soils, then, the humus averaged warm- 
est, because, on account of its dark color, it absorbed 
heat more readily than the others. The dry clay 
was warmer than the sand on account of its color 
and compact texture. Of the wet soils the sand 
was the warmest, because, on account of its holding 
less moisture, less heat was required to raise its 
temperature and there was less cooling by evapora- 
tion, while the other soils, although they absorbed 
more heat than the sand, lost more on account of 
greater evaporation, due to their holding more 
moisture. Why are sandy soils called warm soils 
and clay soils said to be cold ? 

How may we check losses of heat from the soil? 

If we make a mulch on the surface of the soil 
evaporation will be checked and therefore loss of 
heat by evaporation will be checked also. The 
mulch will also check the conduction of heat from 
the lower soil to the surface and therefore check 
loss of heat by radiation from the surface. 

VALUE OF ORGANIC MATTER 

Figure 33 illustrates a simple way to show the 
value of organic matter in the soil. The boxes are 
about twelve inches square and ten inches deep. 
They were filled with a clay subsoil taken from the 
second foot below the surface of the field. To the 
second box was added sufficient commercial fer- 



62 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

tilizer to supply the plants with all necessary plant 
food. To the third box was added some peat or 
decayed leaves, in amount about ten per cent, of the 
clay subsoil. The com was then planted and the 
boxes were all given the same care. The better 
growth of the com in the third box was due to 
the fact that the organic matter not only furnished 
food for the com but during its decay prepared 
mineral plant food that was locked up in the clay, 
and also brought about better conditions of air and 
moisture by improving the texture of the soil. The 
plants in the second box had sufficient plant food, 
but did not make better growth because poor tex- 
ture prevented proper conditions of air and moist- 
ure. " And that's another witness " for organic 
matter. Decaying organic matter or humus is 
really the life of the soil and it is greatly needed 
in most of the farm soils of the eastern part of 
the country. It closes the pores of sandy soils and 
opens the rlay, thus helping the sand to soak up 
and hold more moisture and lessening excessive 
ventilation, and at the same time helping the roots 
to take a firmer hold. It helps the clay to absorb 
rain, helps it to pump water faster, helps it to hold 
water longer in dry weather, increases ventilation, 
favors root penetration and increases heat absorp- 
tion. We can increase the amount of organic mat- 
ter in the soil by plowing in stable manure, leaves 
and other organic refuse of the farm, or we can 
plow under crops of clover, grass, grain or other 
crops grown for that purpose. 



CHAPTER VIII 
Plant Food in the Soil 

We learned in previous paragraphs that the roots 
of plants take food from the soil, and that a condi- 
tion necessary for the root to do its work for the 
plant was the presence of available plant food in 
sufficient quantities. 

What is plant food?* For answer let us go to 
the plant and ask it what it is made of. 

Experiment. — Take some newly ripened cotton 
or cotton wadding, a tree branch, a cornstalk, and 
some straw or grass. Pull the cotton apart, then 
twist some of it and pull apart; in turn break the 
branch, the cornstalk and the straw. The cotton 
does not pull apart readily nor do the others break 
easily; this is because they all contain long, tough 
fibres. These fibres are called woody fibre or cel- 
lulose. The cotton fibre is nearly pure cellulose. 

Experiment. — Get together some slices of white 
potato, sweet potato, parsnip, broken kernels of 
com, wheat and oats, a piece of laundry starch 
and some tincture of iodine diluted to about the 
color of weak tea. Rub a few drops of the iodine 
on the cut surfaces of the potatoes, parsnip, and 

63 



64 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

the broken surfaces of the grains. Notice that it 
turns them purple Now drop a drop of the iodine 
on the laundry starch. It turns that purple also. 
This experiment tells us that plants contain starch. 

Experiment. — Chew a piece of sorghum cane, 
sugar cane, cornstalk, beet root, turnip root, apple 
or cabbage. They all taste sweet and must there- 
fore contain sugar. 

Examine a number of peach and cherry trees. 
You will find on the trunk and branches more or 
less of a sticky substance called gum. 

Experiment. — Crush on paper seeds of cotton, 
castor-oil bean, peanuts, Brazil nuts, hickory nuts, 
butternuts, etc. They make grease spots ; they con- 
tain fat and oil. 

Experiment. — Chew whole grains of wheat and 
find a gummy mucilaginous substance called wheat 
gum, or wet a pint of wheat flour to a stiff dough, 
let it stand about an hour, and then wash the starch ^ 
out of it by kneading it under a stream of running 
water or in a pan of water, changing the water fre- 
quently. The result will be a tough, yellowish 
gray, elastic mass called gluten. This is the same 
as the wheat gum and is called an albuminoid be- 
cause it contains nitrogen and is like albumen, a 
substance like the white of an egg. 

If we crush or grate some potatoes or cabbage 
leaves to a pulp and separate the juice, then heat 
the clear juice, a substance will separate in a flaky 
form and settle to the bottom of the liquid. This 
is vegetable albumen. 




FIG. 34- 

Soy-bean roots. Shownig nodules or tubercles, the homes of 

nitrogen-fixing bacteria. 







o 



S 

o 



o 



bo 

c 

o 



C 



PLANT FOOD IN THE SOIL 65 

Experiment. — Crush the leaves or stems of sev- 
eral growing plants and notice that the crushed 
and exposed parts are moist. In a potato or an 
apple we find a great deal of moisture. Plants then 
are partly made of water. In fact growing plants 
are from 65 to 95 per cent, water. 

Experiment. — Expose a plant or part of a plant 
to heat; the water is driven off and there remains 
a dry portion. Heat the dry part to a high degree 
and it burns ; part passes into the air as smoke and 
part remains behind as ashes. 

We have found then the following substances in 
plants: Woody fibre or cellulose, starch, sugar, 
gum, fats and oils, albuminoids, water, ashes. Aside 
from these are found certain coloring matters, cer- 
tain acids and other matters which give taste, flavor, 
and poisonous qualities to fruits and vegetables. 
More or less of all these substances are found in 
all plants. Now these are all compound substances. 
That is, they can all be broken down into simpler 
substances, and with the exception of the water and 
the ashes, the plants do not take them directly from 
the soil. 

The chemists tell us that these substances are 
composed of certain chemical elements, some of 
which the plant obtains from the air, some from 
the soil and some from water. 

The following table gives the substances found 
in plants, the elements of which they are composed, 
and the sources from which the plants obtain them : 



66 



THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 



Substances found in plants. 

Cellulose or woody fibre 

Starch 

Sugar 

Gum 

Fat and oil 



Albuminoids 



Ashes 



Water 



Elements of which 
they are made. 



Carbon 
Oxygen 
Hydrogen 

Carbon 

Oxygen 

Hydrogen 

Nitrogen 

Sulphur 

Phosphorus 

Phosphorus 

Potassium 

Calcium 

Magnesium 

Iron 

Oxygen 

Hydrogen 



Sources from 
which plants ob- 
tain them. 



Air 



Water 

Air 
Water 



Soil 



Soil 



Here is a brief description of these chemical de- 
ments. 

Oxygen, a colorless gas, forms one-fifth of the 
air. 

Hydrogen, a colorless gas, forms a part of water. 

Carbon, a dark solid, forms nearly one-half of 
all organic matter; charcoal is one of its forms. 
The lead in your pencil is another example. 

Nitrogen, a colorless gas, forms four-fifths of 
the air. Found in all albuminoids. 

Sulphur, a yellow solid. 

Phosphorus, a yellowish white solid. 

Potassium, a silver white solid. 

Calcium, a yellowish solid. Found in limestone. 



PLANT FOOD IN THE SOIL 6 J 

Magnesium, a silver white solid. 

Iron, a silver gray solid. 

Of these elements the nitrogen, sulphur, phos- 
phorus, potassium, calcium, magnesium, and iron 
must not only exist in the soil but must also be 
there in such form that the plant can use them. 
The plant does not use them in their simple ele- 
mentary form but in various compounds. These 
compounds must be soluble in water or in weak 
acids. 

Of these seven elements of plant food the nitro- 
gen, phosphorus, and potassium and calcium are of 
particular importance to the farmer, because they 
do not always exist in the soil in sufficient available 
quantities to produce profitable crops. Professor 
Roberts, of Cornell University, tells us that an aver- 
age acre of soil eight inches deep contains three 
thousand pounds of nitrogen. The nitrogen exists 
largely in the humus of the soil and it is only as 
the humus decays that the nitrogen is made avail- 
able. Here is another reason for keeping the soil 
well supplied with organic matter. The decay of 
this organic matter is hastened by working the soil ; 
therefore good tillage helps to supply the plant with 
nitrogen. 

If the nitrogen becomes available when there is 
no crop on the soil it will be washed out by rains 
and so lost. Therefore the soil, especially if it is 
sandy, should be covered with a crop the year 
through. Many lands lose large amounts of plant 
food by being left bare through the fall and winter. 



68 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

especially in those parts of the country where the 
land does not freeze. The phosphorus, potassium 
and calcium also exist in most soils in considerable 
quantities, but often are not available; thorough 
tillage and the addition of organic matter will help 
to make them available, and new supplies may be 
added in the form of fertilizers. Calcium is found 
in nearly all soils in sufficient quantities for most 
crops, but sometimes there is not enough of it for 
such crops as clover, cowpea, alfalfa, etc. It is 
also used to improve soil texture. The entire sub- 
ject of commercial fertilizers is based almost en- 
tirely on the fact of the lack of these four elements 
in the soil in sufficient available quantities to grow 
profitable crops. The plant gets its phosphorus 
from phosphoric acid, its potassium from potash, 
and its calcium from lime. 

There is a class of plants which have the power 
of taking- free nitrogen from the air. These are 
the leguminous plants ; such as clover, beans, cow- 
peas, alfalfa, soy bean, etc. They do it through the 
acid of microscopic organisms called bacteria which 
live in nodules or tubercles on the roots of these 
plants (Figs. 34-35). Collect roots of these plants 
and find the nodules on them. The bacteria take 
nitrogen from the air which penetrates the soil and 
give it over to the plants. Here is another reason 
for good soil ventilation. 

This last fact brings us to another very important 
property of soils. Soils have existing in them many 
very small plants called bacteria. They are so very 



PLANT FOOD IN THE SOIL 69 

small that it would take several hundred of them 
to reach across the edge of this sheet of paper. We 
cannot see them with the naked eye but only with 
the most powerful microscopes. Some of these 
minute plants are great friends to the farmer, for 
it is largely through their work that food is made 
available for the higher plants. Some of them 
break down the organic matter and help prepare 
the nitrogen for the larger plants. Others help the 
leguminous plants to feed on the nitrogen of the 
air. To do their work they need warmth, moisture, 
air, and some mineral food; these conditions we 
bring about by improving the texture of the soil 
by means of thorough tillage and the use of organic 
matter. 



CHAPTER IX 
Seeds 

conditions necessary for seeds to sprout 

In the spring comes the great seed-planting time 
on the farm, in the home garden and in the school 
garden. Many times the questions will be asked: 
Why didn't those seeds come up? How shall I 
plant seeds so as to help them sprout easily and 
grow into strong plants? To answer these ques- 
tions, perform a few experiments with seeds, and 
thus find out what conditions are necessary for 
seeds to sprout, or germinate. For these experi- 
ments you will need a few teacups, glass tumblers 
or tin cans, such as tomato cans or baking- 
powder cans ; a few plates, either of tin or crockery ; 
some wide-mouth bottles that will hold about half 
a pint, such as pickle, olive, or yeast bottles or drug- 
gists' wide-mouth prescription bottles; and a few 
pieces of cloth. Also seeds of corn, garden peas 
and beans. 

Experiment. — Put seeds of com, garden peas, 
and beans (about a handful of each) to soak in bot- 
tles or tumblers* of water. Next day, two hours 
earlier in the day, put a duplicate lot of seeds to 
70 



SEEDS 71 

soak. When this second lot of seeds has soaked 
two hours, you will have two lots of soaked seeds 
of each kind, one of which has soaked twenty-four 
hours and the other two hours. Now take these 
seeds from the water and dry the surplus water 
from them by gently patting or rubbing a few at a 
time in the folds of a piece of cloth, taking care 
not to break the skin or outer coating of the seed. 
Place them in dry bottles, putting in enough to 
cover the bottoms of the bottles about three seeds 
deep; cork the bottles. If you cannot find corks, 
tie paper over the mouths of the bottles. Label the 
bottles " Seeds soaked 24 hours," " Seeds soaked 
2 hours,*' and let them stand in a warm place sev- 
eral days. If there is danger of freezing at night, 
the bottles of seeds may be kept in the kitchen or 
living room where it is warm, until they sprout. 

Observe the seeds from day to day. The seeds 
that soaked twenty-four hours will sprout readily 
(Fig. 36), while most, if not all, of those that soaked 
only two hours will not sprout. Why is this? It 
is because the two-hour soaked seeds do not receive 
sufficient moisture to carry on the process of sprout- 
ing. 

Our experiment teaches us that seeds will not 
sprout until they receive enough moisture to soak 
them through and through. 

This also teaches that when we plant seeds we 
must so prepare the soil for them and so plant them 
that they will be able to get sufficient moisture to 
sprout. 



72 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

Experiment. — Soak some beans, peas or corn, 
twenty-four hours ; carefully dry them with a cloth. 
In one half-pint bottle place enough of them to 
cover the bottom of the bottle two or three seeds 
deep; mark this bottle A. Fill another bottle two- 
thirds full of them and mark the bottle B (Fig. 37). 
Cork the bottles and let them stand for several 
days. Also let some seeds remain soaking in the 
water. The few seeds in bottle A will sprout, while 
the larger number in bottle B will not sprout, or 
will produce only very short sprouts. Why do not 
the seeds sprout easily in the bottle which is more 
than half full? 

To answer this question try the following experi- 
ment: 

Experiment — ^Carefully loosen the cork in bottle 
'B (the bottle containing poorly sprouted seeds), 
light a. match, remove the cork from the bottle and 
introduce the lighted match. The match will stop 
burning as soon as it is held in the bottle, because 
there is no fresh air in the bottle to keep the match 
burning. Test bottle A in the same way. What 
has become of the fresh air that was in the bottles 
when the seeds were put in them ? The seeds haye 
taken something from it and have left bad air in its 
place ; they need fresh air to help them sprout, but 
they have not sprouted so well in bottle B because 
there was not fresh air enough for so many seeds. 
The seeds in the water do not sprout because there 
is not enough air in the water. Now try another 
experiment. 






A. B, 

FIG 36. 

To show that seeds need water for germination. The beans 
in bottle A were soaked 2 hours, those in bottle B "were soaked 
24 hours. They were then removed from the water and put 
into dry bottles. 




B. 
FIG. 37. 
To show that seeds need air for germination. The beans in 
both bottles were soaked 24 hours, and then were put into dry 
bottles. Bottle A contained sufficient air to start the few 
seeds. Bottle B had not enough. The water in the tumbler 
C did not contain sufficient air ^or germination. See experi- 
ment, page 72. 




A. B. 

FIG. 38. 

To show that seeds need air for germination. Com planted 
in puddled clay in tumbler A could not get sufficient air for 
sprouting. The moist sand in tumbler B admitted sufficient 
air for germination. 



SEEDS 73 

Experiment — Fill some tumblers or teacups or 
tin cans with wet sand and others with clay that 
has been wet and then thoroughly stirred till it is 
about the consistency of cake batter or fresh mixed 
mortar. Take a tumbler of the wet sand and one 
of the wet clay and plant two or three kernels of 
corn in each, pressing the kernels down one-half 
or three-quarters of an inch below the surface; 
cover the seeds and carefully smooth the surface. 
In other tumblers plant peas, beans, and other seeds. 
Cover the tumblers with saucers, or pieces of glass ' 
or board to keep the soil from drying. Watch them 
for several days. If the clay tends to dry and crack, 
moisten it, fill the cracks and smooth the surface. 
The seeds in the sand will sprout but those in the 
clay will not (see Fig. 38). Why is this? Water 
fills the small spaces between the particles of clay 
and shuts out the fresh air which is necessary for 
the sprouting of the seeds. 

This teaches us that when we plant seeds we 
must so prepare the soil, and so plant the seeds 
that they will get enough fresh air to enable them 
to sprout, or, in other words, the soil must be well 
ventilated. 

Experiment. — Plant seeds of com and beans in 
each of two tumblers ; set one out of doors in a cold 
place and keep the other in a warm phace in the 
house. The seeds kept in the house will sprout 
quickly but those outside in the cold will not sprout 
at all. This shows us that seeds will not sprout 
without heat. 



74 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

If the weather is warm place one of the tumblers 
in a refrigerator. 

Why don't we plant corn in December? 

Why not plant melons in January? 

Why not plant cotton in November? 

The seeds of farm crops may be divided into two 
classes according to the temperatures at which they 
will germinate or sprout readily and can be safely 
planted. 

Class A. Those seeds that will germinate or 
sprout at an average temperature of forty-five de- 
grees in the shade, or at about the time the peach 
and plum trees blossom : 



Barley 


Beet 


Parsley 


Oats 


Carrot 


Parsnip 


Rye 


Cabbage 


Onion 


Wheat 


Cauliflower 


Pea 


Red Clover 


Endive 


Radish 


Crimson Clover 


Kale 


Turnip 


Grasses 


Lettuce 


Spinach 



These can be planted with safety in the spring 
as soon as the ground can be prepared, and some 
of them, if planted in the fall, live through the 
winter. 

Class B. Those seeds that will germinate or 
sprout at an average temperature of sixty degrees 
in the shade, or when the apple trees blossom: 



Alfalfa 


Soy Bean 


Squash 


Cow Pea 


Pole Bean 


Cucumber 


Com 


String Bean 


Pumpkin 


Cotton 


Melon 


Tomato 


Egg Plant 


Okra 


Pepper 



SEEDS 



75 



We are now ready to answer the question : What 
conditions are necessary for seeds to sprout or germ- 
inate ? These conditions are : 

The presence of enough moisture to keep the 
seed thoroughly soaked. , 

The presence of fresh air. 

The presence of more or less heat. 

This teaches us that when we plant seeds in the 
window box or in the garden or on the farm we 
must so prepare the soil and so plant the seeds that 
they will be able to obtain sufficient moisture, heat, 
and air for sprouting. The moisture must be film 
water, for if it is free water or capillary water fill- 
ing the soil pores, there can be no ventilation and, 
therefore, no sprouting. 

SEED TESTING 

In a previous experiment (page 73) the seeds 
planted in the wet clay did not sprout (see Fig. 
38). In answer to the question, "Why is this?" 
some will say the seeds were bad. It often happens 
on the farm that the seeds do not sprout well and 
the farmer accuses the seedsman of selling him 
poor seed, but does not think that he himself may 
be the cause of the failure by not putting the seeds 
under the proper conditions for sprouting. How 
can we tell whether or not our seeds will sprout if 
properly planted? We can test them by putting a 
number of seeds from each package under proper 
conditions of moisture, heat and air, as follows: 



76 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

For large seeds take two plates (see Fig. 39) 
and a piece of cloth as wide as the bottom of the 
plate and twice as long. Count out fifty or one 
hundred seeds from a package, wet the cloth and 
wring it out. Place one end of the cloth on the 
plate, place the seeds on the cloth and fold the other 
end of the cloth over them. On a slip of paper 
mark the number of seeds and date, and place on 
the edge of the plate. Now cover the whole with 
another plate, or with a pane of glass to keep from 
drying. Set the plate of seeds in a warm room 
and examine occasionally for several days. If the 
cloth tends to dry, moisten it from time to time. 
As the seeds sprout take them out and keep a rec- 
ord of them. Or leave them in the plate and after 
four or five days count those that have sprouted. 
This will give the proportion of good seeds in the 
packages. 

For small seeds fold the cloth first and place the 
seeds on top of it. 

Another good tester for small seeds is made by 
running about an inch of freshly mixed plaster of 
Paris into a small dish or pan and moulding flat 
cavities in the surface by setting bottles into it. 
The dish or pan and bottles should be slightly 
greased to prevent the plaster sticking to them. 
When the cast has hardened it should be turned 
out of the mould and set in a large dish or pan. 
One hundred small seeds are then counted out and 
put into one of the cavities, others are put into the 
other cavities. Water is then poured into the pan 



SEEDS 77 

till it rises half way up the side of the plaster cast 
or porous saucer. The whole thing is then covered 
to keep in the moisture (Fig. 40). 

Another method is to get boxes of finely pulver- 
ized sand or soil and carefully plant in it fifty or 
one hundred seeds of each kind to be tested. Then 
by counting those that come up, the proportion of 
good seeds can easily be found. 

In every case the testers should be kept at a tem- 
perature of about seventy degrees or about that of 
the living room. 

HOW THE SEEDS COME UP 

Plant a few seeds of corn, beans and garden peas 
in boxes or tumblers each day for several days in 
succession. Then put seeds of corn, beans and gar- 
den peas to soak. After these have soaked a few 
hours, examine them to find out how the seed is 
constructed. Note first the general shape of the 
seeds and the scar (Fig. 41*) on one side as in 
the bean or pea and at one end or on one edge in 
the corn. This scar, also called hilum, is where the 
seed was attached to the seed vessel. 

Cut into the bean and pea, they will be found to 
be protected by a tough skin or coat. Within this 
the contents of the seed are divided into two bodies 
of equal size lying close to each other and called 
seed leaves or cotyledons (Fig. 41*^). Between 
them near one end or one side will be found a pair 
of very small white leaves and a little round pointed 



78 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

projection. The part bearing the tiny leaves was 
formerly, and is sometimes now, called the plumule, 
but is generally called the epicotyl, because it grows 
above or upon the cotyledons. The round pointed 
projection was formerly called the radicle, but is 
now spoken of as the hypocotyl, because it grows 
below or under the cotyledons. 

Examine a dry kernel of corn and notice that on 
one side there is a slight oval-shaped depression 
(Fig. 41*). Now take a soaked kernel and cut it 
in two pieces making the cut lengthwise from the 
top of the kernel through the centre of the oval 
depression and examine the cut surface. A more 
or less triangular-shaped body will be found on the 
concave side of the kernel (see Figs. 41^ and 41^). 
This is the one cotyledon of the corn. Besides this 
will be found quite a mass of starchy material 
packed in the coverings of the kernel and in close 
contact with one side of the cotyledon. This is 
sometimes called the endosperm. 

Within the cotyledon will be found a little grow- 
ing shoot pointed toward the top of the kernel. 
This is the epicotyl, and another growing tip pointed 
toward the lower end of the kernel; this is the 
hypocotyl or the part which penetrates the soil and 
forms roots. 

Now examine the seeds that were planted in suc- 
cession. Some will be just starting a growing point 
down into the soil. Some of them have probably 
come up and others are at intermediate stages. 

How did the bean get up? 



SEEDS 



79 



After sending down a root the hypocotyl began 
to develop into a strong stem which crooked itself 
until it reached the surface of the soil and then 
pulled the cotyledons or seed-leaves after it (Fig. 
42). These turn green and after a time shrink and 
fall off. 

The pea cotyledons were left down in the soil, 
the epicotyl alone pushing up to the surface. The 
corn pushed a slender growing point to the surface 
leaving the cotyledon and endosperm behind in the 
soil but still attached to the little plant (Fig. 43). 

USE OF COTYLEDONS AND ENDOSPERM 

Experiment. — Plant some beans in a pot or box 
of soil and as soon as they come up cut the seed- 
leaves from some of them and watch their growth 
for several days. It will soon be seen that the plants 
on which the seed-leaves were left increase in size 
much more rapidly than those from which the seed- 
leaves were removed (see Figs. 43 and 44). Sprout 
some com in the seed tester. When the seedlings 
are two or three inches long, get a wide-mouthed 
bottle or a tumbler of water and a piece of paste- 
board large engugh to cover the top. Cut a slit 
about an eighth of an inch wide from the margin 
to the centre of the pasteboard disk. Take one of 
the seedlings, insert it in the slit, with the kernel 
under the pasteboard so that it just touches the 
water. Take another seedling of the same size, 
carefully remove the kernel from it without injur- 



8o THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

ing the root, and place this seedling in the slit be- 
side the first one (Fig. 45). Watch the growth of 
these two seedlings for a few days. Repeat this 
with sprouted peas. In each case it will be found 
that the removal of the seed-leaves or the kernel 
checks the growth of the seedling. Therefore, it 
must be that the seed-leaves which appear above 
ground, as in the case of the bean, or the kernel of 
the corn which remains below the surface of the 
soil, furnish the little plant with food until its roots 
have grown strong enough to take sufficient food 
from the soil. 




FIG. 39. 

A seed-tester, consisting of two plates and a moist cloth. 




FIG. 40. — A SEED-TESTER. 

A plaster cast with cavities in the surface for small seeds. 







^ -^ ^ cc 






o 

O QQ 



be ll) 
O4 ^ 



(L> 



£ o 



o 



u b(? 
o 



o o 

o <^ 



» 8 






.2 o 
i . 

o C 

% ^ 

il' 






o _ 

;5 o 

en O) 

S S 



^ CO 



CHAPTER X 
Seed Planting 

how deep should seeds be planted? 

Experiment. — Plant several kernels of com in 
moist soil in a glass tumbler or jar. Put one kernel 
at the bottom and against the side of the glass, 
place the next one a half inch or an inch higher 
and an inch and a half to one side of the first seed 
and against the glass. Continue this till the top of 
the glass is reached (Fig. 2). Leave the last seed 
not more than one-fourth inch below the top of 
the soil. The soil should be moist at the start and 
the seeds should all be against the glass so they 
can be seen. This can best be done by planting as 
you fill the glass with soil. Plant peas and beans 
in the same way. Do not water the soil after plant- 
ing. Set aside in a warm place and wait for the 
seeds to come up. 

Another method of performing this experiment is 
to make a box having one side glass (Fig. 46). The 
length and the depth of the box will depend upon 
the size of the glass you use. Fill the box nearly 
full of moist soil and plant seeds of corn and beans 
and- peas at depths of one-quarter inch, one inch, 
6 ' 81 • 



82 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

two inches, three inches, and four inches. These 
seeds can best be put in as the box is being filled. 
Hold each individual seed against the glass with a 
stick so that when planted they may be seen through 
the glass. Protect the seeds and roots from light 
by using a sheet of cardboard, tin or wrapping 
paper or a piece of board, and set in a warm place. 

Many of the seeds planted only one-quarter inch 
deep will not sprout because the soil about them 
will probably dry out before they take from it 
enough moisture to sprout. The one and two-inch 
deep seeds will probably come up all right. Of the 
three and four-inch deep seeds, the corn and peas 
will probably make their way to the surface because 
they send up only a slender shoot, which can easily 
force its way through the soil. The deep-planted 
beans will make a strong effort but will not suc- 
ceed in forcing their way to the surface because 
they are not able to lift. the large seed-leaves through 
so much soil, and will finally give up the struggle. 
If any of the deeper beans do get up, the seed- 
leaves will probably be broken off an4 the little 
plant will starve and be dwarfed. This experiment 
teaches us that we should plant seeds deep enough 
to get sufficient moisture for sprouting and yet not 
so deep that the young seedlings will not be able to 
force their way to the surface. 

Seeds which raise their cotyledons above the soil 
should not be planted as deep as those which do 
not. Large, strong seeds like corn, peas, etc., which 
do not lift their cotyledons above the surface, can 





FIG. 42. 

To show how the bean-plant gets up. Notice the curved hypo- 
cotyls pulling the seed-leaves or cotyledon out of the soil. 





FIG. 43. 
To show how the corn-plant gets out of the soil. A slender 
growing point pushes straight up through the soil, leaving the 
kernel behind. 




B, A. 

FIG. 44. 

To show the use of the cotyledons. These are the plants 
shown in tumbler 2, Fig. 42, forty-eight hours after removing 
the cotyledons from plant B. Plant B, although first up, has 
been handicapped by the loss of its cotyledons. 



SEED PLANTING 83 

be planted with safety at a depth of from one to 
four or five inches. 

Seeds of carrot, celery, parsley, parsnip and egg 
plant are weak and rather slow in germinating. It. 
is customary to plant them rather thickly in order 
that by the united strength of many seeds they may 
more readily come to the surface. This point should 
be observed also in planting seeds in heavy ground 
that is liable to pack and crust over before the seeds 
germinate. 

Seed should always be sown in freshly stirred soil 
and may be planted by hand or with a machine. 

For the home garden and the school garden, and 
when only small quantities of any one variety are 
planted, a machine is hardly desirable and hand 
planting is preferable. 

The rows are marked out with the garden marker, 
or the end of a hoe or rake handle (Fig. 47), using 
a line or the edge of a board as, a guide. The seeds 
are then carefully and evenly dropped in the mark 
or furrow. 

The covering is done with the hand or a rake or 
hoe, and the soil is pressed over the seeds by patting 
it with the covering tool or walking on the row 
and pressing it with the feet. This pressing of the 
soil over the seeds is to bring the particles of soil 
close to each other and to the seed so that film water 
can climb upon them and moisten the seed suffi- 
ciently for sprouting. 

A convenient way of distributing small seeds like 
those of turnip and cabbage, is to take a small paste- 



84 THE FIRST BOOK OF- FARMING 

board box or tin spice or baking-powder box, and 
punch a small hole in the bottom near one end or 
side. Through this the seeds can be sifted quite 
evenly. 

For the larger operations of the farm and market 
garden, hand and horse-power drills and broad-' 
casters are generally used, though some farmers 
still plant' large fields by hand. 

The grasses and clovers are generally broadcasted 
by hand or machine, and are then lightly harrowed 
and are generally rolled. 

The small grains (wheat, oats, etc) are broad- 
casted by many farmers, but drilling is considered 
better. With the grain drill the seed is deposited at 
a uniform depth and at regular intervals. In broad- 
casting, some of the seeds are planted too deep, and 
some too shallow, and others are left on the surface 
of the soil. 

From experiment- it has been found that there is 
a loss of about one-fifth of the seed when broad- 
casted as compared with drilling. 

As in the case of grass seed, the grains are gen- 
erally rolled after sowing. 

Corn is planted by hand, or by hand- and horse- 
com-planters, which drop a certain number of seeds 
at any required distance in the row. 

There are a number of seed drills made for plant- 
ing vegetable seeds which are good machines. 

The main points to be considered in seed drills 
or seed planting machines are : 

Simplicity and durability of structure. 



SEED PLANTING 85 

Ease of draft. . 

Uniformity in quantity of s^ed planted, and in 
the distances apart and depth to which they are 
planted. 

The distances apart at which seeds are planted 
vary according to the character of the plant. Bushy, 
spreading plants and tall plants require more room 
than low and slender-growing plants. 

Visit the neighboring hardware stores and* farms 
and examine as many seed-growing tools as pos- 
sible to see how they are constructed and how prop- 
erly used. Practice planting with these tools, if 
possible. 

Illustrations of grain drills and other seed-plant- 
ing machines will be found in seed catalogues, hard- 
ware catalogues, and in the advertising columns of 
agricultural papers. 



SEED CLASSIFICATION 

In order to become familiar with the farm and 
garden seeds, obtain samples of as many of them as 
possible. Put them in small bottles — homoeopathic 
vials for instance— -or stick a few of each kind on 
squares of cardboard. Arrange them in groups ac- 
cording to resemblances or relationships, comparing 
not only the seeds but the plants on which they 
grew. If you cannot recall the plants, and there is 
no collection available, study the illustrations in 
seed catalogues which can be obtained from seeds- 



86 



THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 



men. The following groups contain most of the 
farm and garden seeds, excepting flower seeds : 



Grass Family : 


Mustard Family : 


Nightshade Fam- 


Corn, 


Mustard, 


ily: 


Wheat. 


Cabbage, 


Potato, 


Oats, 


Cauliflower, 


Tomato, 


Rye, 


CoUards. 


Egg Plant, 


Barley, 


Brussels Sprouts, 


Pepper. 


Sorghum, 


Kale, 




Orchard Grass, 


Kohl Rabi 




Red Top Grass, 


XWUl JXALFI. 

Radish, 


GoosEFooT Fam- 


Timothy, 


Ruta Baga, 


ily : 


Kentucky Blue 


Turnips, 


Beet, 


Grass. 


Watercress. 


Chard, 
Spinach, 


Gourd Family: 




Mangle Wurzel. 


Cantaloupe, 


Thistle Family : 




Citron, 




Pea or Legume 


Cucumber, 


Artichoke, 


Family : 


Gourd, 


Cardoon, 




Muskmelon, 


Chicory, 


Garden Pea, 


Pumpkin, 


Dandelion, 


Canada Field Pea, 


Squash, 


Endive, 


Cow Pea, 


Watermelon, 


L.ettuce. 


Soy Bean, 


Cymling. 


Salsify, 


Bush Bean, 




Sunflower, 


Lima Bean, 


Parsley Family : 


Tansy. 


Velvet Bean, 


Caraway, 




Vetch, 


Carrot, 




Clover, 


Celery. 


Lily Family: 


Alfalfa. 


Coriander, 






Cumin, 


Asparagus, 


Mallow Family: 


Fennel. 


Garlic, 




Parsley, 


Leek, 


Okra, 


Parsnip. 


Onion. 


Cotton. 




, FIG. 45. 
To show the use of the kernel to the ydung corn-plant. The 
Tcernel was carefully removed from the plant on the right 
when both plants were of the same size. The result is a dwarf- 
ing of the plant. 




i 

•4-* 


i 







CO 

2 




i 

t-i 
tn 


2 


1 


a 

CO 

JZ 


2 


a5 

1 




"E 


3 

CO 


3 


3 


O 










•«-» 


"2 


i 


5 


•0 

C 


1 


CO 


'-S 







^ 


(U 


•M 




a> 


•«-» 


oT 


t-l 


P4 

3 
> 

CTJ 


lO J3 







<y 


c 

«5 


H 


CO 

c 
'0 


3 
CO 






?^ 


o« 


"bo 


bo 


CO 


3 


bo 




^ 


^ 




(O 


c 




t-i 


13 


CJ 


"o 


'5 





to 


c 


10 


a 







'^ 


VC 


•d 


1 


bfl 


CO 

§ 


JZ 


-0 


a> 


a> 


•o 


rt 




4I2 





-0 


a> 




g 


£ 


c 


>» 


a> 


'0 




a 




•^ 


CO 


"a 


CO 


CO 





cd 




c> 


a 


u 





s 





•0 


1 


rS 




J3 


1 





•s 


bo 


J3 


-0 


to 


•a 


3 
O4 


3 


3 


c« 


-s 


§ 


a 





cd 


V 


c 


_ 


c 


^ 


CO 


<u 


"rt 




'^ 


bO 


>» 

& 




C 


1 


00 

-0 




CO 


a> 


1 

4> 


rt 





cd 


bO 









3 

CO 

VO 


1^ 

CO 



:2; 


•5 


j: 


U 

1 


CO 


6 


CO 


1 

CO 


a> 


:! 




§ 


5? 


bo 


co" 

C 


-S3 




fS 


(O 


3 



1 


•0 


8 




3 


u 


a> 





a> 




r? 


O^JZ 


s> 


•G 




u 


CO 


■*-» 


■4-» 



SEED PLANTING 87 

TRANSPLANTING 

The seeds of some crops — cabbage, tomato, let- 
tuce, for example — are planted in window boxes, 
hot-beds, cold frames or a corner of the field or 
garden. When the seedlings have developed three 
or four leaves or have become large enough to 
crowd one another, they are thinned out or are 
transplanted into other boxes, frames or plots of 
ground, or are transplanted into the field or garden. 

The time and method of transplanting depend 
largely on 

The condition of the plant. 

The condition of the soil. 

The condition of the atmosphere. 

For best results iri field planting the plant should 
be well grown, strong and stocky, with well devel- 
oped roots and three or four strong leaves. 

The soil should be thoroughly prepared, moist 
and freshly stirred. A moist day just before a light 
shower is the best time. These conditions being 
present, the plants are carefully lifted from the seed 
bed with as little disturbance of the roots as possi- 
ble and carried to the field or garden. Some plants, 
like cabbage, will stand considerable rough treat- 
ment, while others, like the eggplant, require greater 
care. 

In the field or garden a hole is made for each 
plant with the hand, a stick or dibber or any con- 
venient tool, the roots of the plant are carefully 
placed in it and the soil is pressed about them. If 



88 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

the soil IS moist and freshly stirred, new roots will 
generally start in a very short time. 

Plants that have been grown in pots, small boxes 
or tin cans, as tomatoes and eggplants are some- 
times grown, may be quickly transplanted in the 
field in the following manner: Open the furrow 
with a small plow, knock the plants out of the pots 
or cans and place them along the land side of the 
furrow at the proper distances, then turn the soil 
back against them with the plow. 

When there is a large number of plants to be set, 
as in planting cabbage, sweet potatoes, etc., by the 
acre, it is not always convenient to wait for a cloudy 
day or to defer operations till the sun is low in the 
afternoon. In such cases the roots of the plants 
should be dipped in water or in thin mud just be- 
fore setting them, or a little water may be poured 
into each hole as the plant is put in. The soil 
should always be well firmed about the roots. The 
firming of the soil about the roots of a newly set 
plant is as important as firming it over planted 
seeds. The soil should be packed so tightly that 
the individual leaves will be torn off when an at- 
tempt is made to pull the plant up by them. 

In dry or warm weather it is a good plan to trim 
the tops of plants when setting them. This can 
be done readily with some plants, such as cabbage 
and lettuce, by taking a bundle of them in one hand 
and with the other twisting off about half of their 
tops. 

The proper time to transplant fruit and orna- 




to 

c 



4> 

C -O 

a. wj 

.^ o 

~ en 



V 



V 






I 

c 

I 

4> 



o 




^ B 



fa 



a> E 




c o 




•J5 ^ 




Si «» 




6 ^ 




^ j: 




^ bo 




2-n 




■«-» 




C « 


en 


4> J: 


ki 


O *3 


0^ 




-M 


(u G 


c 


u ^ 


c« 


Id 4> 


"E 
1 


J3 <D 


1 


^ 




CA 


rt 


9J 


^ 


.5 a> 


a> 


^ -a 


Ih 


c3 C 


C3 


rt rt 




£ 3. 


■4-» 


C rt 


2 

*4H 




CO 


•s* 


'£ 


u 


|i 




i: 




8 g 


H 


< ° 


a> 


4^ 


0^ 


JC 


u 


H 


J3 



SEED PLANTING 89 

mental trees and shrubs is during the fall, winter 
and early spring, which is their dormant or resting 
season, as this gives the injured roots a chance to 
recover and start new rootlets before the foliage of 
the plant makes demands on them for food and 
moisture. 

In taking up large plants many roots are broken 
or crushed. These broken and injured roots should 
be trimmed off with a smooth cut. The tree or 
shrub is then placed in the hole prepared for it 
and the soil carefully filled in and packed about the 
roots. After the plant is set, the top should be 
trimmed back to correspond with the loss of root. 
If the plant is jiot trimmed, more shoots and leaves 
will start into growth than the damaged roots can 
properly furnish with food and water, and the plant 
will make a weak growth or die. 

There are on the market a number of hand trans- 
planting machines which, from their lack of perfec- 
tion, have not come into general use. Many of them 
require more time to operate than is consumed in 
hand planting. A number of large machines for 
transplanting are in successful and satisfactory use 
on large truck and tobacco farms. These machines 
are drawn by horses and carry water for watering 
each plant as it is set. 

Practice transplanting in window boxes or in the 
open soil and see how many of your plants will sur- 
vive the operation. 



CHAPTER XI 

Spading and Plowing 

We have learned the important conditions neces- 
sary for the sprouting of seeds and for the growth 
and development of roots. We have also learned 
something about the soil, its properties, and its re- 
lation tOj or its behavior toward these important 
conditions. We are therefore prepared to discuss 
intelligently methods of treating the soil to bring 
about, or maintain, these conditions. • 

spading the soil 

The typical tool for preparing the soil for root 
growth is a spade or spading fork (Fig. 49). With 
this tool properly used we can prepare the soil for 
a crop better than with any other. 

In spading, the spade or fork should be pushed 
into the soil with the foot the full length of the 
blade and nearly straight down. The handle is then 
pulled back and the spadeful of earth is pried loose, 
lifted slightly, thrown a little forward, and at the 
same time turned. The lumps are then broken by 
striking them with the blade or teeth of the tool. 
All weeds and trash should be covered during the 
90 



SPADING AND PLOWING 9 1 

Operation. A common fault of beginners is to put 
the spade in the soil on a slant and only about half 
the length of the blade, and then flop the soil over 
in the hole from which it came, often covering the 
edge of the unspaded soil. The good spader works 
from side to side across his piece of ground, keep-, 
ing a narrow- trench or furrow between the spaded 
and unspaded soil, into which weeds and trash and 
manure may be drawn and thoroughly covered, and 
also to prevent covering the unspaded soil. If this 
work has been well done with the ordinary spade 
or fork and finished with a rake, the result will be 
a bed of soil twelve to fifteen inches deep, fine and 
mellow and well prepared for root penetration, for 
good ventilation, for the absorbing and holding of 
moisture and warmth. 

This method should always be employed for small 
gardens and flower beds. 

PLOWING 

For preparing large areas of soil the plow is the 
tool most generally used. 

WHY DO WE SPADE AND PLOW ? 

To break and pulverize the soil and make it soft 
and mellow, so the roots of plants may enter it in 
search of food, and get a firm hold for the support 
of the plant which is above ground. 

To make the soil open and porous, so that it can 
more readily absorb rain as it falls on the surface. 



92 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING ' 

To check loss of water by evaporation. 

To admit air to the roots of plants. Also to allow 
air to act chemically on the mineral and organic 
matter of the soil and make them available to the 
crop. 

To raise the temperature of soils in the spring, 
or of damp soils at any time. 

To mix manures and organic matter with the soil. 
The more thoroughly manure is distributed through 
the soil the more easily plants will get it and the 
greater will be its effect on the soil. 

To destroy the insect enemies of the plant by 
turning them up to the frost and the birds. 

To kill weeds. Weeds injure crops: 

They waste valuable moisture by pumping it up 
from the soil and sending it out into the air through 
their leaves. In this way they do their greatest in- 
jury to crops. 

They crowd and shade the crop. 

They take plant food which the plant should have. 

Spading and plowing bring about conditions nec- 
essary for the sprouting or germination of seeds. 

Spading and plowing also tend to bring about 
conditions necessary for the very important work 
of certain of the soil bacteria. 

PARTS OF A PLOW 

It will be found that a good .farm plow has the 
following parts (Fig. 50) : 

A standard or stock, the central part of the plow 
to which many of the other parts are attached. 




FIG. 49. — SPADING-FORK AND SPADE. 



SPADING AND PLOWING 93 

A beam, to which the power is attached by which 
the plow is drawn. Some plows have wooden 
beams and others have ifon beams. 

Handles by which the plowman guides and stead- 
ies the plow and also turns it at the comers of the 
plowed ground in going about the field. 

A clevis, which is attached to the end of the beam 
and is used to regulate the depth of plowing. To 
the clevis is attached a draft ring or shackle, to 
which the horse or team is fastened. * To make the 
plow run deep the draft ring or shackle is placed 
in the upper holes or notches of the clevis ; to make 
it run shallow the ring is placed in the lower holes. 
On some plows there are only notches in the clevis 
for holding the ring, they answer the same purpose 
as holes. The clevis is also used on some plows to 
regulate the width of the furrow. By moving the 
draft ring or shackle, towards the plowed land the 
plow is made to cut a wider furrow, moving it away 
from the plowed land causes the plow to cut nar- 
rower. 

Some plows have a double clevis so that the draft 
ring may be raised or lowered, or moved to right 
or left. With some plows the width of the furrow 
is adjusted by mOving the beam at its attachment 
to the handles. 

A share, called by some the point, which shears 
the bottom of the furrow slice from the land. The 
share should be sharp, especially for plowing in 
grass land and land full of tough roots. If the 
share, particularly the point, becomes worn so that 



94 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

it bevels from beneath upwards it will be hard to 
keep the plow in the soil, for it will tend to slide up 
to the surface. If this happens the share must be 
renewed or sharpened. Plows are being made now 
with share and point separate, and both of these re- 
versible (Fig. 51), so that if either becomes worn 
on the under side it can be taken out and turned 
over and put back and it is all right, they thus be- 
come self-sharpening. 

A mouldboard. This turns and breaks the fur- 

. row slice. The degree to which the mouldboard 
pulverizes depends on the steephess of its slant up- 
ward and the abruptness of its curve sidewise. 
The steeper it is and the more abrupt the curve, the 
greater is its pulverizing power. A steep, abrupt 
mouldboard is adapted to light soils and to the 
heavier soils when they are comparatively dry. 
This kind of a plow is apt to puddle a clay soil if 

. it is quite moist. For breaking new land a plow 
with a long, gradually sloping share and mould- 
board is used. 

A landslide, which keeps the plow in place. 

A coulter. Some plows have a straight kriife- 

like coulter (Fig. 52) which is fastened to the beam 

just in front of the mouldboard and serves to cut. 

the furrow slice from the land. In some plows 

. this is replaced by an upward projection of the 
share; this is wide at the back and sharp in front 
and is called the shin of the plow from its resem- 
blance to the shin bone. The coulter is sometimes 
made in the form of a sharp, revolving disk (Fig. 



SPADING AND PLOWING 



95 



53), called a rolling coulter. This form is very 
useful in sod ground and in turning under vines and 
tall weeds. It also lessens the draft of the plow. 

A jointer or skimmer which skims stubble and 
grass from the surface of the soil and throws them 
into the bottom of the furrow where they are com- 
pletely covered. The jointer helps also to pulverize 
the soil. 

A truck or wheel, attached under the end of the 
beam. This truck makes the plow run steadier. 
This is sometimes used to make the plow run shal- 
lower by setting it low down. This is not right, 
for it then acts as a brake and makes the plow 
draw harder. The depth of the furrow should be 
adjusted at the clevis. 

A plow not only has parts but it has character 
also. 

CHARACTERISTICS OF A GOOD PLOW 

A good plow should be strong in build and light 
in weight. 

The draft should be as light as possible. 

The plow should run steadily. 

A good plow should not only turn the soil but 
should pulverize it as well. 

When plowing, the team should be hitched to the 
plow with as short traces as possible, and the plow 
should be so adjusted that it will cut furrows of 
the required width and thickness with the least pos- 
sible draft on the team -and the least exertion on the 
part of the plowman. 



96 



THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 



THE FURROW SLICE 



In plowkig, the furrow slice may be cut thin 
and wide and be turned over flat. This method is 
adapted to breaking new land and heavy sod land. 

It may be cut thick and narrow arid be turned 
up on edge. 

Or it may be cut of such a width and depth that 
the plow will turn it at an angle of about forty-five 
degrees. By this last method the greatest amount 
of soil can be turned at least expense of labor; the 
furrow slice can be more thoroughly broken; the 
greatest surface is exposed to the action of the air, 
and plant food is more evenly distributed through 
the soil. 

HOW DEEP SHALL WE PLOW? 

We learned in a previous chapter that the roots 
of farm plants develop largely in that part of the 
soil which is worked by the plow ; therefore, to have 
as much tilled soil as possible for root growth, we 
should generally plow as deep as possible without 
turning too much of the subsoil to the surface. 
Lands that have been plowed deep should be 
deepened gradually by plowing up a half-inch to an 
inch of subsoil each year until the plow reaches a 
depth of at least nine or ten inches. 

There is an opinion among many farmers that 
sandy soils should not be plowed deep. But as these 
soils are apt to be leachy it seems best to fill them 
with organic matter to as great a depth as possible 




o 

c 

OS 



bo 

c 



"a 



< 




o 




I 







FIG. 54- — A ROLLING COULTER-HARROW. 




FIG. 55. — SPRING-TOOTHED HARROWS. 



SPADING AND PLOWING 



97. 



to increase their water-holding power, and this can 
best be done by plowing farm manures in deep. 

In many parts of the South the farmers use v%ry 
small plows and small animals to draw them. The 
result is that the soil is not prepared to a sufficient 
depth to allow of the large root development neces- 
sary for large crops. These farmers need larger 
tools and heavier animals if they expect to make 
much improvement in the yield of their crops. 
These small plows and this shallow plowing have 
done much to aid the washing and g^Ueying of the 
hill farms by rain. The shallow layer of loose soil 
takes in the rain readily, but as the harder soil be- 
neath does not take the water as readily, the shal- 
low plowed soil soon fills, then becomes mud, and 
the whole mass goes down the slope. The land 
would wash less if it had not been plowed at all, 
and least of all if it were plowed deep, for then 
there would be a deep reservoir of loose soil which 
would be able to hold a large amount of water until 
the harder lower soil could take care of it. 

BREAKING OUT THE MIDDLES 

Some farmers have a way when getting the land 
ready for a crop, of plowing the rows first and then 
" breaking out the middles " or spaces between after 
the crop is planted. This is a poor practice, as it 
interferes with thorough preparation of the soil. 
The ground can be more thoroughly plowed and 
broken up before the crop is planted than after- 



gS THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

wards. This practice of leaving the middles inter- 
feres with proper harrowing and after-cultivation. 



THROWING THE LAND UP IN RIDGES 

Many farmers throw the land up into ridges with 
the plow and then plant on the ridge. When land 
is thrown into ridges, a greater amount of surface 
is exposed to the air and a greater loss of moisture 
by evaporation takes place, therefore ridge culture 
is more wasteful of soil water than level culture. 
For this reason dry soils everywhere and most soils 
in dry climates should, wherever practicable, be left 
flat. On stiff, heavy soils which are slow to dry out, 
and on low bottom lands it may be desirable to ridge 
the land to get the soil dried out and warmed quicker 
in the spring. Late fall and early planter truck 
crops are often planted on the southern slopes of 
low ridges thrown up with the plow for warmth 
and protection from cold winds. 

TIME TO PLOW 

The time of plowing will depend somewhat on 
the nature of the soil, climate and the crop. 

More plowing is done in the spring just before 
planting spring and summer crops than at any other 
time, excepting in localities that plant large areas 
of winter grain and truck. This spring plowing 
should be done early, for the spring plowing tends 
to dry the loosened soil somewhat and allows it to 



SPADING AND PLOWING 



99 



become warm at an earlier date, and at the same 
time the loosened soil tends to hold water in the 
lower soil for future use by the crop and allows the 
soil to take in spring rains more readily. If a cover 
crop or green manure crop is to be turned under in 
the spring it should be done early so as to prevent 
the crop to be turned under from pumping too 
much water out of the soil and thus interfering 
with the growth of the crop for which the land is 
being prepared. 

There are some particular advantages to be gained 
by fall plowing in heavy soils: 

Immediately after harvest the land is usually dry 
and easy to work. 

The soir plowed at this time and left rough is 
acted upon physically by frost which pulverizes it, 
and chemically by rain and air which renders plant 
food available. 

Insects are turned up and exposed to frost and 
birds. 

A great number of weeds are destroyed and the 
land is more easily fitted for crops in the spring. 
Fall plowing should be done as early as possible, 
especially in the dryer regions, to catch all water 
possible. It is not advisable to plow sandy soils in 
the fall lest plant food be washed out of them. 

When possible a cover crop should be put on fall 
plowed land where there is likely to be loss of plant 
food by leaching. 



lOO THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

BARE FALLOW 

The term " fallowing " is sometimes applied to 
the operation of plowing, and sometimes the land 
is left bare without a crop sometime after plowing ; 
this is called '' bare fallowing " the latid. 

Bare fallowing should not be practiced on all 
soils. It is adapted: 

To dry climates and dry seasons where it is de- 
sirable to catch and save every possible drop of rain- 
fall, and where plant food will not be washed out 
of the exposed soils by rains. 

To heavy clay lands. 

To lands that are foul with weeds and insects. 

To sour soils which are sweetened by exposure 
to air and rain. 

Light sandy soils should not be subjected to bare 
fallow unless they are very foul with weeds. They 
should always be covered with a crop to prevent 
loss of plant food by leaching. 



CHAPTER XII 
Harrowing and Rolling 

harrowing 

After spading or plowing the next operation in 
the preparation of the soil is generally raking, har- 
rowing or dragging. The objects of these opera- 
tions are: 

To break lumps and clods left by the plow and 
spade and to further pulverize the soil. 

Harrowing and raking aid in controlling soil ven- 
tilation, and put the soil in better condition to ab- 
sorb moisture. 

They check the loss of moisture by making a 
mulch of fine loose earth on the surface. 

The harrow and rake destroy the weeds. 

The harrow brings about conditions favorable to 
the even distribution of seeds. 

It is also the tool generally used to cover seeds 
sown broadcast. 

Harrowing is generally done just before planting, 
and with some crops just after, to cover seeds or to 
smooth the ground. Harrowing is also done in the 
first stages of growth of some crops to kill weeds 
and make a soil mulch. The harrow should always 
follow the plow within a few hours unless it is 
lOI 



I02 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

desired to leave the land in a bare fall or winter 
fallow. At other times of the year the lumps of 
earth are apt to dry out and become hard and diffi- 
cult to break. If there is but one work team on the 
farm it is a good plan during the plowing season to 
stop the plow in time to harrow the day's plowing 
before the day's work ends. 

HARROWS 

There are several types of harrows in use. They 
may be classified according to the style of their 
teeth or cutting parts ; they are as follows : 

Rolling cutter harrows. 

Spring-toothed harrows. 

Spike-toothed harrows. 

Coulter-toothed harrows. 

Chain harrows. 

Brush harrows. 

Plank or drag harrows. 

These types vary in the depth to which they cut, 
and the degree to which they pulverize the soil. 

Rolling cutter harrows. Harrows of this type 
(see Fig. 54) consist of one or more revolving 
shafts on which are arranged a number of concave 
disks. These disks are either entire, notched, or 
made of several pieces fastened together. Examples 
of these are the disk, cutaway and spading harrows. 
These harrows cut and move the soil deeper than the 
other types. They are especially adapted to work 
on heavy clay soils. 



HARROWING AND ROLLING 



103 



The value of this type of harrow as moisture 
preservers depends on the manner in which they 
are used. If the disks are so set that they cover 
but a portion of the surface with a mulch of fine 
earth they leave a ridge exposed to the action of 
the wind and sun and the rate of evaporation is 
greatly increased. The disks should be set at such 
an angle that the whole surface shall be stirred or 
covered. Soils which need the disk harrow should 
generally be gone over again with some shallower 
working tool to smooth the surface. An objection 
to the rolling cutters is that unless great care is 
taken they will leave the land in ridges and valleys. 

The two gangs of disks throw the earth in op- 
posite directions. They are generally set to throw 
it from the centre and the result is a shallow double 
furrow the width of the machine. By lapping each 
time the furrow is partially filled, but to get the 
land smooth a smoothing harrow should be used 
after the rolling cutter. 

Spring-toothed harrows (Fig. 55). Spring- 
toothed harrows with their curved spring teeth 
enter the soil readily, draw moderately easy and 
pass over obstructions without much difficulty. 
They are very useful in new land that is full of 
roots and stumps and also stony land. They pul- 
verize the soil to an average depth. They leave 
the soil in ridges. The ridges can be leveled by a 
smoother in the shape of a piece of plank attached 
to the rear of the harrow. On newly plowed grass 
land they tend to tear up the sod and leave it on 



I04 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

the surface. They also tend to drag out coarse 
manures when plowed in. 

The original and more common form of the 
spring-toothed harrow is a floating harrow when 
at work. That is, it rests on the points of the teeth 
and is dragged or floated over the ground. A 
newer form of spring-toothed harrow, sometimes 
called the fallow cultivator, is mounted on high 
wheels and its action is largely controlled by them. 
This form of harrow is claimed to do much better 
work than the floating harrow and may in a large 
measure displace the rolling cutter. The weight of 
this harrow is entirely taken from the soil except 
in the wheel tracks, and the entire action is that of 
pulverizing and lightening the soil. 

Spike-toothed harrows (Fig. 56). The teeth of 
these harrows are round, square or diamond-shaped 
spikes fastened into a wood or iron frame. The 
teeth are set in a vertical position or are inclined to 
the rear. These harrows are shallow in their action ; 
they run easily but tend to compact the soil more 
than the other types and are therefore better ad- 
apted to loose soils and to finishing off after the 
work of the deep cutting harrows. They are also 
used for covering seeds. 

Coulter-toothed harrows. The coulter-toothed 
harrows (Fig. 57) have teeth resembling the coul- 
ter of a plow twisted or bent into various shapes. 
The Acme is a good example of this class of har- 
row. It cuts, turns and pulverizes the surface soil 
somewhat after the manner of the plow. It pre- 





FIG. 56. — SPIKE-TOOTHED HARROWS. 




FIG. 57. — ^A COULTER-TOOTHED HARROW. 




i 

< 
< 



1 



b 



HARROWING AND ROLLING IO5 

pares a fine mulch and leaves an excellent seed bed. 
It is an excellent harrow to finish off with after 
using a rolling cutter. 

Chain harrows. The chain harrow consists of a 
web of chains linked together. They have a won- 
derful power for breaking clods and are useful for 
collecting weeds. They shake the dirt from the 
weeds and roll them into heaps. Chain harrows 
tend to compact the soil. 

Brush harrows. The brush harrow is a primi- 
tive form made by fastening brush to a long pole. 
Brush harrows are quite useful for brushing in 
seed and for pulverizing manure broadcasted on 
grass lands. 

Plank harrows. The plank harrow (see Fig. 58) 
is made of several planks fastened together so that 
each plank overlaps the next one to it, like the clap- 
boards of a house. This harrow is as good as a 
roller in fining and smoothing the surface soil. It 
is an excellent tool to use alternately with a spike 
or coulter-toothed harrow on lumpy soil. This tool 
rasps or grinds many of the lumps or clods which 
slip by the harrow teeth and presses others into the 
ground so that the harrow following can get a grip 
on them. It is a harrow that can be made on any 
farm. This planker is an excellent tool to smooth 
the surface, for broadcasting small seeds and for 
planting truck crops. 



CHAPTER XIII 
Leaves 

facts about leaves 

We found in an earlier lesson that all of our farm 
plants have roots, stems, leaves, flowers, fruit and 
seeds. We studied the root first as being the most 
important part of the plant to the farmer. The 
seed was the next part studied, for that was con- 
sidered the next most important, because the seed 
is the main reliance for new plants. The part next 
in importance is the leaf and that we will now study. 

If you will go into the field and observe the 
leaves on a number of plants, you will find that the 
following facts are true: 

They are all green. 

They are flat and thin. 

Many of them are very broad. 

Some of the leaves on a single branch are larger 
than others on the same branch, and some have 
longer stems than others. 

Most of them have a rather dark glossy upper 
surface and a lighter rougher under surface. 

The leaves on the lower branches of the trees are 
spread out in a more or less flat layer and have 
io8 




cq 



o O 



.£ « 

*J to 

c -5 



W5 O 



!«5 



*- o 

en C 



^1 



•5 « 

c 
** o 

o *^ o 
ti .52 




FIG. 60. — ^AMOUNT OF TRANSPIRATION. 

This plant transpired within 48 hours an amount of water 
equal to the colored liquid in the bottle standing on the 
jar, more than 6 ounces. 



LEAVES 109 

their glossy surfaces all turned up, while those on 
branches in the tops of trees or shrubs are arranged 
all around the branch, the glossy surface being 
turned up. 

What are the reasons for these facts? 

A study of the work of the leaves and the condi- 
tions necessary for them to perform their work will 
help us to answer this question. 

THE USES OF LEAVES TO PLANTS 

Experiment. — (See Fig. 59). Take a pot or 
tumbler in which a young plant is growing, also a 
piece of pasteboard large enough to cover the top 
of the pot ; cut a slit from the edge to the centre of 
the pasteboard, then place it on the top of the pot, 
letting the plant enter the slit. Now close the slit 
with wax or tallow, making it perfectly tight about 
the stem. If the plant is not too large, invert a 
tumbler over it, letting the edge of the tumbler rest 
on the pasteboard ; if a tumbler is not large enough 
use a glass jar. If a potted plant is not convenient 
a slip or a seedling bean or pea placed in a tumbler 
of water will serve the purpose. Prepare several 
and place some in a sunny window and leave others 
in the room where it is darker, and observe them 
from time to time. In the case of those plants that 
were set in the sunny window moisture will be seen 
collecting on the inner surface of the tumbler. 
Where does this come from? It is absorbed from 
the soil by the roots and is sent with its load of 



no THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

dissolved plant food up through the stems to the 
leaves. There most of the water is passed from the 
leaves to the air and is condensed on the sides of 
the glass. A work of leaves then is to throw off or 
to transpire moisture and thus make room for a 
new supply of food-laden moisture. This water is 
thrown off through little pores or mouths or stomata 
which are very small and very numerous on the 
under side of the leaf. It will be noticed that the 
plant not placed in the sunlight transpires very lit- 
tle moisture, showing that sunlight helps the leaves 
in this work of transpiration. 

How much water does a plant transpire or throw 
off from its leaves? 

Experiment. — (See Fig. 60). Fill a common 
quart fruit jar or can with soil and plant in it a 
kernel of corn, a bean, a cotton seed or seed of some 
other plant. After the plant has grown to be twelve 
or fifteen inches high, cut a piece of pasteboard a 
little larger than the top of the jar, cut a hole in 
the centre as large as the stem of the plant and make 
a slit from edge to centre. Soak the pasteboard in 
melted wax or paraffine candle. Cool it and then 
place it over the jar, slipping it around the plant 
stem. Now solder the pasteboard to the jar with 
melted candle making the joints tight all the way 
around. Then close up the slit 'and the hole about 
the stem. The jar is now Completely sealed and 
there is no way for water to escape except through 
the plant. The plant should be well watered before 
the jar is closed. Now weigh the jar and set in the 



LEAVES III 

sunlight. Weigh again the next day. The differ- 
ence in the two weights will represent the amount 
of water transpired by the plant. The weighings 
may be repeated until moisture gives out. If it is 
desired to continue this experiment some time, a 
» small hole should be cut in the pasteboard before 
it is fastened to the jar. This hole is for adding 
water to the jar from time to time. The hole should 
be kept closed with a cork. The amount of water 
added should always be weighed* and account taken 
of it in the following weighings. While this plant 
is growing it will be well to wrap the jar with paper 
to protect the roots from the light. 

It has been found that the amount of water neces- 
sary to grow a plant to maturity is equal to from 
300 to 500 times the weight of the plant when dry. 

This gives us an idea of the very great importance 
of water to plants. 

Experiment. — Take a few leaves from a plant of 
cotton, bean, clover or other plant that has been 
growing in the sunlight; boil them for a few min- 
utes to soften the tissues, then place them in alcohol 
for a day or until the green coloring matter is ex- 
tracted by the alcohol. Wash the leaves by taking 
them from the alcohol and putting them in a tum- 
bler of water. Then put them in saucers in a weak 
solution of iodine. The leaf will be seen to gradu- 
ally darken ; this will continue until it becomes dark 
purple or almost black (Fig. 61). We have already 
learned that iodine turns starch this color, so we 
conclude that leaves must contain starch, (Five or 



112 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

ten cents worth of tincture of iodine from a drug 
store diluted to about the color of weak tea will 
be sufficient for these leaf experiments.) 

Experiment. — If a potted plant was used for the 
last experiment, set it away in a dark closet after 
taking the leaves for the experiment. A day or two 
after, take leaves from it before removing it from 
the closet. Boil these leaves and treat them with 
alcohol as in the previous experiment. Then wash 
them and test them with iodine as before. No starch 
will be found in the leaves (Fig. 62). The starch 
that was in them when plaCed in the closet has dis- 
appeared. Now paste some thick paper labels on 
.some of the leaves of a plant exposed to the sun- 
light. After a few hours remove the leaves that 
have the labels on them, boil, treat with alcohol and 
test with the iodine. In this case starch will be 
found in all parts of the leaf except the part over 
which the label was pasted (Fig. 63). If the sun- 
light is intense and the label thin, some starch will 
appear under it. 

According to these last experiments, leaves con- 
tain starch at certain times, and this starch seems 
to iappear when the leaf is in the sunlight and to 
disappear when the light is cut off. The fact is 
that the leaves manufacture starch for the plant 
and sunlight is necessary for this work. The starch 
is then changed to sugar which is carried by the 
sap to other parts of the plant where it is again 
changed to starch to be built into the plant struc- 
ture or stored for future use. 



LEAVES 



"3 



Experiment. — Take leaves from a plant of silver- 
leaf geranium growing in the sunlight. If this 
plant cannot be had, the leaves from some other 
variegated white and green leaved plant will do. 
Boil these leaves, treat with alcohol, wash and test 
with iodine (Fig. 64). Starch will be found in the 
jijeaf wherever there was green coloring matter in 
it, while the parts that were white will show no 
starch. The green coloring matter seems to have 
something to do with the starch making, in fact 
starch is manufactured only where it is present. 
This coloring matter is called chlorophyl or leaf 
green. 

We are told by the chemists that this starch is 
made from carbon and water. There exists in the 
air a gas called carbonic acid gas ; this gas is com- 
posed of carbon and oxygen. It is breathed out 
of the lungs of animals and is produced by the burn- 
ing and decay of organic matter. The under side 
of the leaf contains hundreds of little pores or 
mouths called stomata. This gas mixed with air 
enters these mouths. The green part of the leaf 
aideil by the sun takes hold of the gas and separates 
the carbon from the oxygen. The oxygen is allowed 
to go free, but the carbon is made to unite with 
water and form starch. 

Experiment. — The escape of this oxygen gas 
may be seen by taking some water weed from either 
fresh or salt water and placing it in a glass jar of 
the kind of water from which it came, then set the 
jar in the sunlight. After a time bubbles of gas 
8 



114 "^^^ FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

will be seen collecting and rising to the surface. If 
a mass of weed like the green scum of fresh water 
ponds or green sea lettuce be used, the bubbles of 
gas will become entangled in the mass and will 
cause it to rise to the surface of the water. At the 
same time prepare another jar of the weed and place 
it somewhere out of the sun ; very few bubbles will 
be seen to rise and the weed will settle to the bot- 
tom of the jar (Fig. 65). 

All of the food of the plant, whether taken from 
the air or from the soil is digested in the leaves, 
and sunlight and air are necessary for this work. 

Another function of leaves then is to digest food 
for the plant. 

Important functions of leayes then are : 

To transpire moisture sent up by the roots. 

To manufacture starch by combining some of the 
water sent up by the roots with carbon taken from 
the air. 

To digest the starch and food sent up by the 
roots. 

To do these things well leaves must be connected 
with a strong, healthy root system and must have 
plenty of light and air. 

We are now ready to give reasons for the facts 
about leaves mentioned in the first part of the chap- 
ter (see page 109). 

Leaves are green because the green coloring mat- 
ter is necessary for the leaf to do its work. 

Leaves are flat and thin and broad in order that 
they may present a large surface td the air and sun- 
light. 




FIG. 6l. 

To show that growing leaves contain starch, i. Represents 
a green cotton leaf as picked from the plant. 2. Is the same 
leaf after taking out the green coloring matter; the leaf is 
white. 3. The same leaf after treatment with weak iodine 
turned to a dark purple, showing the presence of starch. 
(Drawings by M. E. Feltham.) 




To show that starch disappears from the leaf when the 
plant is placed in the dark. The plant from which was taken 
the leaf represented in Fig. 61, was immediately placed in a 
dark closet for 24 hours. Then leaf 4 was taken from it; 5 
represents this leaf after the chlorophyl was taken from it; it 
IS white; 6 is the same after treatment with iodine. The leaf 
remains white, showing no starch. (Drawings by M. E. Felt- 
ham.) 





To show that sunlight is necessary for starch-making by 
leaves. Leaf 7 had a paper label stuck to its upper surface a 
couple of hours while the plant was exposed to sunlight; 8 is 
the same leaf after the chlorophyl was taken out, and 9 repre- 
sents it after treatment with iodine. The leaf turned purple 
in all parts except the part that was shaded by the label. 
Starch was removed from the portion under the label, but was 
not renewed because the label kept out the necessary sunlight. 
(Drawings by M. E. Feltham.) 




10 



II 
FIG. 64. 



To show that chlorophyl is necessary for starch formation 
in the leaf. 10 is a variegated leaf from a silver-leaved geran- 
ium ; the center is an irregular patch of green, with an irregu- 
lar border of white. 11, after taking out the green. 12, after 
iodine treatment, the leaf turns purple only where it was 
originally green, showing that no starch forms in the white 
border. (Drawings by M. E. Feltham.) 



LEAVES 115 

Some leaves on the bfanch are larger than others 
because in the struggle for light and air they have 
had a better chance than the others or they have 
had more of the food which has come up from the 
root. 

* Some of the leaves have developed longer stems 
than others in their effort to reach out after light 
and air. 

Most leaves have the little mouths through which 
air is taken in and water and t>xygen given out on 
the rough side, and that side is turned down toward 
the earth probably so that rain and dust will not 
choke the little pores. 

The leaves of the lower branches tend to spr^d 
out in a broad, flat plane because in the effort to get 
light no leaf will grow directly under and in the 
shadow of another, while on those branches which 
grow straight up from the top of the tree the leaves 
can get light from all sides and so arrange them- 
selves around the stem. 

Is it of any value to the plant grower to know 
these facts about leaves? It is, for knowing these 
things he can better understand the necessity of 
caring for the leaves of his growing plants to see 
that their work is not interfered with. 

HOW THE WORK OF SOME LEAVES IS INTERFERED 
WITH 

Many people who grow house plants have trouble 
in keeping them well clothed with leaves, for in- 



Il6 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

stance, the geranium and the rubber plant. The 
leaves are constantly turning yellow and dropping 
off or drying up. This sometimes occurs from over- 
watering or not sufficiently watering the soil in the 
pot or box. If the watering is all right the trouble 
may occur in this way: The air of the house is 
quite dry, especially in winter. As a result trans- 
piration from the leaf may be excessive. More 
water is transpired than is necessary, consequently 
more is pumped by the roots and with it more food 
is sent to the leaf than it can take care of. As the 
excess of water is transpired the excess of food is 
left in the leaf. The tendency is to clog its pores 
and therefore interfere with its work, and gradually 
weaken and finally kill it. The remedy for this is 
to spray the leaves frequently so as to keep the air 
about them moist and so check transpiration. Keep- 
ing a vessel of water near them helps also as this 
tends to keep the air moist. Dust sometimes chokes 
the leaves. Washing or spraying remedies this. 

Sometimes house plants, and out-door plants as 
well, become covered with a small, green insect 
called the plant louse or aphis. This insect has a 
sharp beak like a mosquito and it sucks the juices 
from the leaf and causes it to curl up, .interfering 
with its work and finally killing it. Frequent spray- 
ing with water will tend to keep these away. A 
surer remedy against them is to spray the plants 
with weak tobacco water madp by soaking tobacco 
or snuff in water, or to fumigate them with tobacco 
smoke. Sometimes the under side of the leaf be- 



LEAVES 117 

comes infested with a very small mite called red 
spider because it spins a web. These mites injure 
the leaf by sucking sap from it. They can be kept 
in check by frequent spraying for they do not like 
water. If, then, we are careful to frequently spray 
the leaves of our house plants we will have very 
little trouble from aphis, red spider or over trans- 
piration. The aphis, or plant louse, is often very 
numerous on out-door plants, for instance, the rose, 
chrysanthemum, cabbage, and fruit trees. They 
vary in color from green to dark brown or black. 
They are treated in the same way as those on the 
house plants. Some familiar out-door insects which 
interfere with leaf work are the common potato 
bug, the green cabbage worm, the rose slug, the 
elm tree leaf beetle, the canker worm, the tomato 
worm. These insects and many. others eat the 
leaves (Fig. 67). They chew and swallow their 
food and are called chewing insects. All insects 
which chew the leaves of plants can be destroyed 
by putting poison on their food. The common pois- 
ons used for this purpose are Paris green and Lon- 
don purple, which contain arsenic, and are used at 
the rate of one teaspoonful to a pail of water or 
one-fourth pound to a barrel of water. This is 
sprinkled or sprayed on the leaves of the plants. 
Another poison used is white hellebore. This loses 
its poisoning qualities when exposed to the air for 
a "time. Therefore it is safer to use about the flower 
garden and on plants which are soon to be used as 
food or whose fruit is to be used soon, like cab- 



Il8 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

bages and current bushes. This hellebore is sifted 
on the plant full strength, or it may be diluted by 
mixing one part of hellebore with one or two parts 
of flour, plaster, or lime. It is also used in water, 
putting one ounce of hellebore in three gallons of 
water and then spraying it on the plants. Plants 
may be sprayed by using a watering pot with a fine 
rose or sprinkler, or an old hair-brush or clothes- 
brush. Fpr large plants or large numbers of smaller 
plants sprky pumps of various sizes are used. Some- 
times chewing insects on food plants and sucking 
insects on all plants are treated by spraying them 
with soapy solutions or oily solutions which injure 
their bodies. 

The work of the leaf is also interfered with by 
diseases which attack the leaves and cause parts or 
the whole leaf to turn yellow or brown or become 
blistered or filled with holes. The common remedy 
for most of these diseases is called the " Bordeaux 
Mixture." It is prepared as follows : Dissolve four 
pounds of blue vitriol (blue stone, or copper sul- 
phate) in several gallons of water. Then slake 
four pounds of lime. Mix the two and add enough 
water to make a barrelful. The mixture is then 
sprayed on the plants. 

For more detailed directions for spraying plants 
and combating insects and diseases write to your 
State Experiment Station and to the United States 
Department of Agriculture at Washington, D. C. 

The work of the leaves of house plants is often 
interfered with by not giving them sufficient sun- 




>*/ 


^ 


"u 




o 




Ck 


c 


B 


"* 




bo 


- 


c 






1 






u 


>» 


«id 


^ 












•o 


V 


1-4 


1 


*.s 


JQ 




«4!4 




CT3 


M 


O 


a> 




> 




(d 




a> 




a 






s 



bo 

n 



CO 

Wi 

bo 



C/3 



LEAVES 119 

light. Garden and field plants are sometimes planted 
so thick that they crowd each other and shut the 
light and air from each other, or weeds are allowed 
to grow and do the same thing, the result being 
that the leaves cannot do good work and the plant 
becomes weak and sickly. Weeds are destroyed by 
pulling them up and exposing their roots to the sun. 
This should be done before the weeds blossom, to 
prevent them from producing fresh seeds for a new 
crop of weeds. Some weeds have fleshy roots — for 
example, dock, thistle — in which food is stored ; 
these roots go deep in the ground, and when the 
upper part of the plant is cut or broken off the 
root sends up new shoots to take the place of the 
old. Some have underground stems in which food 
is stored for the same purpose. The surest way 
to get rid of such weeds, in fact, of all weeds, is 
to prevent their leaves from growing and making 
starch and digesting food for them. This is accom- 
plished by constantly cutting off the young shoots 
as soon as they appear above the soil, or by growing 
some crop that will smother them. The constant 
effort to make new growth will soon exhaust the 
supply of stored food and the weed will die. 



CHAPTER XIV 
Stems 

WHAT ARE STEMS FOR? 

Visit the farm or garden and the fields to exam- 
ine stems and study their general appearances and 
habits of growth. Notice that many plants, like 
the trees, bushes and many vegetable and flowering 
plants, have stems which are very much branched, 
while others have apparently single stems with but 
few or no branches. Examine these stems care- 
fully and note that there are leaves on some part of 
all of them and that just above the point where 
each leaf is fastened to the stem there is a bud 
which may sometime produce a new branch (Fig. 
68). If the stems of trees and other woody plants 
be examined in the winter after the leaves have 
fallen, it will be seen that the buds are still there, 
and that just below each bud is a mark or leaf scar 
left by the fallen leaf. These buds are the begin- 
nings of new branches for another year's growth. 
On some branches will be found also flowers and 
fruit or seed vessels. 

Buds and leaves or buds and leaf scars distin- 
guish stems from roots. Some plants have stems 

I20 



STEMS 121 

under the soil as well as above it. These under- 
ground stems resemble roots but can be distin- 
guished from them by the rings or joints where 
will be found buds and small scale-like leaves (Fig. 
69). Quitch-grass or wiregrass, Burmuda grass, 
white potato and artichoke are examples of under- 
ground stems. 

Now study the habit of growth of these stems. 
Notice that: 

Some plants grow erect with strong, stiff stems, 
for example, corn, sunflower, maple, pine, elm and 
other trees. Many of these erect stems have 
branches reaching out into the air in all directions. 
Stand under a tree close to the stem or trunk and 
look up into the tree and notice that the leaves* are 
near the outer ends of the branches while in the 
centre of the tree the branches are nearly bare. Why 
is this? If you remember the work of leaves and 
the conditions necessary for their work you will 
be able to answer this question. Leaves need light 
and air for their work, and these erect, branching 
stems hold the leaves up and spread them out in 
the light and air. 

Notice that where several trees grow close to- 
gether, they are one-sided, and that the longest and 
largest branches are on the outside of the group 
and that they have more leaver than the inner 
branches. Why? Why dd the trees in thick woods 
have most of the living branches and bear most of 
their leaves away up in the top of the tree? 

Some stems instead of standing up erect climb 



122 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

Up on other plants or objects by means of spring- 
like tendrils which twist about the object and so 
hold up the slender stem. On the grape vine these 
tendrils are slender branches. On the sweet pea 
and garden pea they are parts of the leaves. The 
trumpet creeper and English ivy climb by means of 
air roots. The nasturtium climbs by means of its 
leaf stems. 

Other stems get up into the light and air with 
their leaves by twining about upright objects. For 
example, the morning glory and pole bean. 

Some stems will be found that spread their leaves 
out to the sun by creeping over the ground. Sweet 
potato, melon, squash, and cucumber vines arq ex- 
amples of such plants. 

One use of the stems of plants then is to support 
the leaves, flowers and fruit, and expose them to 
the much needed light and air. 

Experiment. — Get a piece of grape vine and cut 
it into pieces four or five inches long; notice that 
the cut surface appears to be full of little holes. 
Cut a piece from between joints, place one end in 
your mouth and blow hard. It will be found that 
air can be blown through the piece of vine. Now 
pour about an inch of water in a tumbler or cup 
and color it with a few drops of red ink. Then 
stand some of the pieces of grape vine in the col- 
ored water. In a few hours the colored water will 
appear at the upper ends of the sticks. Capillary 
force has caused the colored water to rise through 
the small tubes in the vine. Repeat this experiment 



STEMS 123 

with twigs of several kinds of trees and soft green 
plants, as elm, maple, sunflower, corn, etc. It will 
not be possible to blow through these twigs, but the 
red water will rise through them by osmose, and in 
a few hours will appear at the upper ends. If some 
leaves are left on the stems the colored water will 
appear in them. Some white flowers can be colored 
in this way. 

In this manner the stem carries plant food dis- 
solved in water from the roots to the leaves, and 
after the leaves have digested it carries it back to 
various parts of the plant. 

The stem then serves as a conductor or a passage 
for food and moisture between roots and leaves. 

Visit a strawberry bed or search for wild straw- 
berry plants. Notice that from the older and larger 
plants are sent out long, slender, leafless stems with 
a bud at the tip. These stems are called runners. 
Find some runners that have formed roots at the 
tip and have developed a tuft of leaves there, form- 
ing new plants. Find some black raspberry plants 
and notice that some of the canes have bent over 
and taken root at the tips sending up a new shoot 
and thus forming a liew plant. You know how rap- 
idly wire grass and Bermuda grass will overrun the 
garden or farm. One way in which they do this is 
by sending out underground stems which take root 
at the joints and so form new plants. 

Another use of the stem then is to produce new 
plants. 

On the farm w? make use of this habit of stems 



124 "^^^ FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

when we wish to produce new white potato plants. 
We cut an old potato in pieces and plant them. The 
buds in the eyes grow and form new plants. One 
way of getting new grape plants is to take a ripened 
vine in the fall and cut it in pieces with two or 
three buds and plant thein so that one or both of 
the buds are covered with soil. The pieces will take 
root and in the spring will send up new shoots and 
thus form new plants. 

You can obtain new plants from geranium, ver- 
bena, nasturtium and many other flowering plants, 
by cutting and planting slips or parts of the stems 
from them. 

In parts of the South new sweet potato plants are 
obtained by cutting parts of the stems from grow- 
ing plants and planting them. 

Florists produce large numbers of new plants by 
taking advantage of this function of stems. 

Experiment. — Take a white potato which is a 
thickened stem and place it in a warm, dark place. 
It will soon begin to sprout or send out new stems, 
and as these new stems grow the potato shrinks 
and shrivels up. Why is this? It is because the 
starch and other material stored in the potato are 
being used to feed the new branches. When we 
plant potatoes in the garden and field the new plants 
produced from the eyes of the potato are fed by 
the stored material until they strike root and are 
able to take care of themselves. 

All stems store food for the future use of the 
plant. 



STEMS 



125 



Annual plants, or thpse which live but one year, 
store food in their stems and leaves during the early 
part of their growth. During the fruiting or seed 
forming season this food material is transferred to 
the seeds and there stored, and the stems become 
woody. This is a fact to bear in mind in connec- 
tion with the harvesting of hay or other foddei* 
crops. If we let the grass stand until the seeds 
form in the head, the stem and leaves send their 
nourishment to the seeds and become woody and of 
less value than if cut before the seeds are fully 
formed. 

In plants of more than one year's growth the 
stored food is used to give the plant a start the fol- 
lowing season, or for seed production. 
^ The rapid growth of leaf and twig on trees and 
shrubs in spring is made from the food stored in 
the stem the season before. 

Sago is a form of starch stored in the stem of 
the sago palm for the future use of the plant. 

Maple sugar is made from the food material 
stored in the trunk of the maple tree for the rapid 
growth of twig and leaf in the spring. 

Cane sugar is the food stored in the sugar cane 
to produce new plants the next season. 

If we examine the stem of a tree that has been 
cut down we find that it is woody, that the wood 
is arranged in rings or layers and that the outer 
part of the stem is covered with bark. We will 
notice also that the wood neaf the centre of the 
tree is darker than the outer part. This inner part 



126 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

is called the heart wood of the tree. The lighter 
wood is called the sap wood. It is through the 
outer or sap wood that the water taken in by the 
root is passed up to the leaves where the food which 
it carries is digested and then sent back to the plant. 
The returning digested food is sent back largely 
through the bark. Between the bark and the wood 
is a very thin layer which is called cambium. This 
is the active growing tissue of the stem. In the 
spring it is very soft and slippery and causes the 
bark to peel off easily. This cambium builds a new 
ring of wood outside of the old wood and a new 
ring of bark on the inside of the bark. In this way 
the tree grows in diameter. 

Now if the bark is injured, or any part of the stem, 
all parts below the wound are cut off from the re-* 
turn supply of digested food and their growth is 
checked. When such a wound does occur, or if a 
wound is made by cutting off a branch, the cam- 
bium sets to work to repair the damage by pushing 
out a new growth which tends to cover the wound. 
We can help this by covering the wound and keep- 
ing the air from it to prevent its drying and to keep 
disease from attacking it before it is healed. 

HOW THE WORK OF THE STEM MAY BE INTERFERED 
WITH 

If there are any peach trees near by, examine the 
trunks close to the ground, even pulling away the 
soil for a few inches. You will very likely find a 



STEMS 127 

mass of g^mmy substance oozing from the tree. 
Pull this away and in it and in the wood under it will 
be found one or more yellowish white worms. 
These are tree borers. They will be found in al- 
most all peach trees. They interfere with the work 
of the stem and in many cases kill the trees. These 
worms may be kept somewhat in check by keeping 
papers wrapped about the lower part of the tree. 
But the surest way to keep them in check is to dig 
them out, spring- and fall, with a knife and wire. 

Borers attack the other fruit trees and also orna- 
mental trees and shrubs. 

Rabbits sometimes gnaw the bark from trees dur- 
ing severe winters. 

Careless workmen sometimes injure the bark of 
trees by allowing plows and mowing machines or 
other tools which they are using among them to. 
come in contact with the trees and injure the bark. 

Young trees purchased from the nursery gener- 
ally have a label fastened to them with a piece of 
wire. Unless this wire is removed or is carefully 
watched and enlarged from time to time it will cut 
into the bark as the stem grows and interfere with 
its work and often kill the top of* the tree or injure 
a main branch. 

These are a few ways in which the work of the 
stem is sometimes checked and the plant injured 
thereby. 



CHAPTER XV 
Flowers 

In our study of the parts of plants the flower and 
fruit have been given the last place because in the 
growing of most farm plants 3. knowledge of the 
functions of the flower is of less importance than 
that of the roots, leaves and stems. However, a 
knowledge of these parts is necessary for successful 
■ fruit culture and some other horticultural industries. 

As with the other parts of the plant our study 
will not be exhaustive but will be simply an attempt 
to bring out one or two important truths of value 
to most farmers. 

In the study of flowers the specimens used for 
study ;will depend upon the time of the year in which 
the studies are made and need not necessarily be the 
ones used here for illustration. 

FUNCTION OR USE OF FLOWERS TO PLANTS 

Of what Use is the flower to the plant? 

You have doubtless noticed that most flowers are 
followed by fruit or seed vessels. In fact, the fruit 
and seeds are really produced from the flower, and 
the work of most flowers is to produce seeds in 
order to provide for new plants. 
128 




FIG. 68. 

A horse-chestnut stem showing leaves, buds, 
scars where last year's leaves dropped off. 



and 



FLOWERS 129 

To understand how this comes about it will be 
necessary to study the parts of the flower and find 
out their individual uses or functions. 



PARTS OF A FLOWER 

If we take for our study any of the following 
flowers : cherry, apple, buttercup, wild mustard, and 
start from the outside, we will find an outer and 
under part which in most flowers is green. This 
is called the calyx (Figs. 70-74). In the buttercup 
and mustard the calyx is divided into separate parts 
called sepals. In the cherry, peach and apple, the 
calyx is a cup or tube with the upper edge divided 
into lobes. 

Above the calyx is a broad spreading corolla 
which is white or brightly colored and is divided 
into several distinct parts called petals. The petals 
of one kind of flower are generally different in 
shape, size and color from those of other flowers. 
In some flowers the petals are united into a corolla 
of one piece which may be funnel-shaped, as in the 
morning glory or petunia of the garden, or tubular 
as in the honeysuckle, wheel-shaped as in the tomato 
and potato, or of various other forms. 

Within the corolla are found several bodies hav- 
ing long, slender stems with yellow knobs on their 
tips. These are called stamens. The slender stems 
are called stalks or filaments and the knobs anthers. 
The anthers of some of the stamens will very likely 
be found covered with a fine, yellow powder called 
9 



f 




To understand hcfw lia- 
necessary to study die ws 
out their individual xss^ r^ 



PATTF 



If we take for nar «= v 

flowers : cherrr, samt. ^lsr^* A • 



start from the 

under part iiii!:± x la- * 

is called the caircs r^' * 

and mustard ifc zzrz: : - 

called sepals, i: :r "' 

calyx is a cnr c ^b:- 

into lobes. ' 't^'Z^ 

Above ife =z^ 
which is 
into sevoal . 
of one knc r ' 
shape, sss^ v vj T' 

In soa]e:M?' " >^^!!^ 

ofooeMT-- — .:^^-0w 

tnonnn^Si 

as in: 

and;^ 

Wnr- - ^ 

f9£ .^= - . 

,^ . calyx. 2. 

-■ - "w- . filament; 




130 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

pollen. This pollen is produced within the anther 
which, when ripe, bursts and discharges the polfen. 

The stamens vary greatly in number in different 
kinds of flowers. In the centre of the cherry, peach, 
or mustard flower will be found an upright slender 
body called the pistil. In the peach and cherry the 
pistil has three parts, a lower rounded, somewhat 
swollen part called the ovary, a slender stem aris- 
ing from it called the style, and a slight enlarge- 
ment at the top of the style called the stigma. The 
stigma is generally roughened or _sticky. If the 
ovary is split open, within it will be found a little 
body called an ovule, which is to develop into a seed. 

In the apple flower the pistils will be found to 
have one ovary with five styles. and stigmas and in 
the ovary will be several ovules. 

In the buttercup will be found a large number of 
small pistils, each consisting of an ovary and stigma. 

The parts of different flowers will be found to 
vary in color, in shape, in relative size and in num- 
ber. In some flowers one or more of the parts will 
be found wanting. 

Examine a number of flowers and find the parts. 

FUNCTIONS OF THE PARTS OF THE FLOWERS 

Now what are the uses of these parts of the 
flower ? 

If we watch a flower of the peach or cherry from 
week to week, we will see that the pistil develops 
into a peach or cherry which bears within a seed 




FIG. 70.— FLOWER OF CHERRY. 

a, pistil; h, stamen; c, corolla; d, calyx; e, section of 
flower showing ovary with ovule. (Drawing by M. E. 
Feltham.) 





FIG. 71. 

I. Flower of apple; h, stamens; c, corolla; d, calyx. 2. 
Section of same; a, style; e, compound ovary; f, filament; 
g, anther. (Drawing by M. E. Feltham.) 






S E 




.22 e« 


flu 


a^ 


Ej 


•o 'v 


» 


a ^ 


t 


.!« 


^ 


^ 


n 


•^:s 


k 


^ 


o 


>% 


« 


;«-'-^ 


^ 


73 bo 


^ 


s. s 


:^ 


sJ 5 


^ 


- ^ 


1 


■^-£ 


ro 




t^ 


(/) 








rt . 


U 


■« '»-' 




o •— 


h 


a ? 



«o «afl 




OQ 



1^ 6 



O t 







^ r^ 



.s »*- 

C o 

6 g . 

o c^? 

-- rv< ^ 

S ^ ^-^ 

en 03 



t^LOWERS 13! 

from which a new plant will be produced if the seed 
is placed under conditions necessary for germina- 
tion or sprouting. 

The pistils of the flowers of other plants will be 
found to develop into fleshy fruits, hard nuts, dry 
pods or husks containing one or more seeds. 

The work of the pistil or pistils of flowers then 
is to furnish seeds for the production of new plants. 

The botanists tell us that a pistil will not produce 
seeds unless it is fertilized by pollen from the same 
kind of flower falling on its stigma. 

The work of the stamen then is to produce pollen 
to fertilize the pistils. Pistils and stamens are both 
necessary for the production of fruit and seed. 
They are therefore called the essential or necessary 
parts of the flower. 

The botanists also tell us that nature has provided 
that in most cases the pistils shall be fertilized by 
the pollen of some other flower than their own, as 
this produces stronger seeds. 

How is the pollen carried from flower to flower? 

Go into the garden or field and watch the bees 
and butterflies flying about the flowers, resting on 
them and crawling into them. They are seeking 
for nectar which the flower secretes. As they visit 
plant after plant, feeding from many flowers, their 
' bodies become more or less covered with pollen as 
they brush over the stamens. Some of this pollen 
in turn gets rubbed off on the stigmas of the pistils 
and they become fertilized. Thus the bees and 
some other insects have become necessary as pollen 



132 



THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 



carriers for some of the flowers and the flowers in 
turn feed them with sweet nectar. 

This gives us a hint as to one use of the corollas 
which spreads out such broad, brightly-colored, 
conspicuous petals. It must be that they are adver- 
tisements or sign boards to attract the bees and to 
tell them where they can find nectar and so lea:d 
them unconsciously to carry pollen from flower to 
flower to fertilize the pistils. The act of carrying 
pollen to the pistil is called pollination, and carrying 
pollen from the stamens of one flower to the pistil 
of another flower is called cross pollination. 

If we examine a blossom bud just before it opens 
we will see only the calyx. Everything else will be 
wrapped up inside of it. Evidently, then, the calyx 
is a protecting covering for the other parts of the 
flower until blossoming time. 

The corolla will be found carefully folded within 
the calyx and also helps protect the stamens and 
pistil. 

Some flowers do not produce bright-colored corol- 
las to attract the bees, for examples, the flowers of 
the grasses, wheat, corn, and other grains, the wil- 
lows, butternuts, elms, pines and others. But they 
produce large amounts of pollen which is carried 
by the wind to the pistils. 

You have sometimes noticed in the spring that 
after a rain the pools of water are surrounded by a 
ring of yellow powder and you have perhaps 
thought it was sulphur. It was not sulphur but 
was composed of millions of pollen grains from 



FLOWERS 



133 



flowers. One spring- Sunday I laid my hat on the 
seat in church. When I picked it up at the end of 
the service I found considerable dust on it. I 
brushed the dust off, but on reaching home I found 
some remaining and noticed that is was yellow, so 
I examined it with a magnifying glass and found 
that it was nearly all pollen grains. Then I rubbed 
my finger across a shelf in my room and found it 
slightly dusty; the magnifying glass showed me 
that this dust was half pollen. This shows what a 
great amount of pollen is produced and discharged 
into the air, and it shows that very few pistils could 
escape even if they were under cover of a building. 

To make sure of cross pollination nature has in 
some cases placed the stamens and pistils in dif- 
ferent flowers on the same plant. This will be 
found true of the flowers of the squashes, melons 
and cucumber. Below some of the flower buds will 
be seen a little squash, melon or cucumber (Fig. 
75 ). These are the ovaries of pistils and the stig- 
mas will be found within the bud or, will be seen 
when the bud opens. But no stamen will be found 
here. Other flowers on these plants will be found 
to possess only stamens. These staminate flowers 
produce pollen and then die. They do not produce 
any fruit, but their pollen is necessary for the littk 
cucumbers, squashes and melons to develop. 

Another example is the com plant. Here the pis- 
tils are on the ear, the corn silk being the styles and 
stigmas, while the pollen is produced in the tassel 
at the top of the plant. 



134 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

With some plants we find that not only are the 
pistils and stamens in separate flowers but the stam- 
inate and pistilate flowers are placed on different 
plants. This will be found true of the osage orange 
and the willow. 

In many flowers that have both stamens and pis- 
tils or are perfect flowers the stigmas and pollen 
ripen at different times. 

With some varieties of fruit it is found that the 
pistils cannot be fertilized by pollen of the same 
variety. This is true of most of our native plums. 
For example, the pistils of the wild goose plum 
cannot be fertilized by pollen of wild goose plums 
even if it comes from other trees than the one bear- 
ing the pistils. They must have pollen from an- 
other variety of plum. 

VALUE OF A KNOWLEDGE OF THE FLOWER 

Many times it happens that a farmer or a gar- 
dener wants to start a strawberry bed and buys 
plants of a variety of berries that have the reputa- 
tion of being very productive. He plants them and 
cultivates them carefully, and at the- proper time 
they blossom very freely, and there is promise of a 
large crop, yet very few berries appear and this con- 
tinues to be the case. Not satisfied with them he 
buys Another variety and plants near them, and after 
that the old bed becomes very productive. Now 
why is this? It happens that the flowers of some 
varieties of strawberries have a great many pistils 




FIG. 74. 

A magnolia flower showing central column of pistils and stamens, 
the pistils being above and the stamens below them. 





eq 1 "S 

^ s 

r/3 CO 

I »' 

I * 

K ^ 

*^ cd 



cq 



o 

03 



FLOWERS 



135 



but no stamens, or very few stamens, and there is 
not pollen enough to fertilize all of the blossoms, 
and when such a variety is planted it is necessary 
to plant near it some variety that produces many 
stamens and therefore pollen enough to fertilize 
both varieties in order to be sure o^f a crop. Those 
strawberries which produce flowers with only pis- 
tils are called pistilate varieties, while those with 
both stamens and pistils are called perfect varieties 
(Fig. 78). In planting them there should be at 
least one row of a perfect variety to every four or 
five pistilate rows. 

We have learned that certain varieties of plums 
cannot be fertilized by pollen from the same variety, 
and to make them fruitful some other variety must 
be planted among them to produce pollen that will 
make them fruitful. This is more or less true of 
all our fruits. Therefore it is not best generally to 
plant one variety of fruit by itself. Not knowing 
this some orchardists have planted large blocks of 
a single variety of fruit which has been unfruitful 
till some other varieties have been planted near 
them or among them. 

A knowledge of the necessity of pollination is 
very important to those gardeners who grow cu- 
cumbers, tomatoes, melons and other fruiting plants 
in greenhouses. Here in most cases the pollination 
is done by hand. 

We noticed that nature provides that most of the 
flowers shall be cross pollinated. This is particu- 
larly true of the flowers of the fruit trees, and for 



136 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

this reason it is impossible to get true varieties of 
fruit from seed. For example, if we plant seeds 
of the wine sap apple, the new trees produced from 
them will not produce the same kind of apple but 
each tree will produce something different and they 
will very likely all be poorer than the parent fruit. 
This is because of the mixture of pollens which fer- 
tilize the pistils. Knowing this fact the nurseryman 
plants apple seeds and grows apple seedlings. 
When these get to be the size of a lead pencil he 
grafts them, that is, he digs them up, cuts off the 
tops away down to the root and then takes twigs 
from the variety he wishes to grow and sets or 
splices these twigs in the roots of the seedlings and 
then plants them. The root and the new top unite 
and produce a tree that bears the same kind of fruit 
as that produced by the tree from which the twig 
was taken. 

•These are a few of the reasons why it is well to 
know something about flowers and their work. 

FRUIT 

The pistil develops and forms the fruit of the 
plant. This fruit bears seed for the production of 
new plants. This fruit may be a dry pod like the 
bean or pea, or it may be a fleshy fruit like the 
apple or plum. Now the developing pistil or fruit 
may be checked in its work of seed production by 
insects and diseases, and to secure good fruit it is 
in many cases necessary to spray the fruits just as 




FIG. 76. — FLOWER OF A LILY. 

Notice how the stigma and the anthers are kept as far as pos- 
sible from each other to guard against self-pollination and to 
insure cross-pollination. 




<l..^ 





C FIG. 7T, D, 

Bud and flower of jewel-weed, or "touch-me-not." A. 
Interior of bud. Stamens are seen, but there appears to be 
no pistil. B. Section of bud showing the pistil concealed 
behind the stamens. C. Bee entering flower comes in con- 
tact with stamens and is loaded with pollen. D. Same bee 
entering older flower. The stamens have ripened and been 
pushed off by the lengthened pistil, which is brushed by the 
back of the bee, and thus is pollinated. This is a con- 
trivance to insure cross-pollination. 





FIG. 78. 

A. Pistillate flower of strawberry. 

B. Perfect flower of strawberry. 
Feltham.) 



(Drawing by M. E. 



' FLOWERS 137 

the leaves are sprayed, to keep these insects and 
diseases in check. 

The fruits of most plants, like the leaves, need 
light and air for their best development, and it 
sometimes happens that the branches of the fruit 
trees grow so thick that the fruits do not get suffi- 
cient light and air. This makes it necessary to thin 
the branches or in other words to prune the tree. 
Some trees also start more fruit than they can prop- 
erly feed and as a result the ripened fruits are small 
and the tree is weakened. This makes it necessary 
to thin the fruits while they are young and unde- 
veloped. 



Part II 

Soil Fertility as AiFected by Farm 
Operations and Farm Practices 



THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

Part II 

Soil Fertility as Affected by Farm Operations 
and Farm Practices 

CHAPTER XVI 

A Fertile Soil 

What is a fertile soil? 

The expression a fertile soil is often used as mean- 
ing a soil that is rich in plant food. In its broader 
and truer meaning a fertile soil is one in which are 
found all the conditions necessary to the growth and 
development of plant roots. 

These conditions, as learned in Chapter II, are as 
follows : 

The root must have a firm yet mellow soil. 

It must be well supplied with moisture. 

It must be well supplied with air. 

it must have a certain amount of heat. 

It must be supplied with available plant food. 

In order to furnish these needs or conditions the 
soil must possess certain characteristics or prop- 
erties. 

141 



142 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

These properties may be grouped under three 
heads : 

Physical properties; the moisture, heat and air 
conditions needed by the roots. 

Biological properties; the work of very minute 
living organisms in the soil. 

Chemical properties ; plant food in the soil. 

PHYSICAL PROPERTIES OF A FERTILE SOIL 

Three very important physical properties of a fer- 
tile soil are its 

Power to take water falling on the surface. 

Power to absorb water from below. 

Power to hold water. 

The fertile soil must possess all three of these 
powers. The relative degrees to which these three 
powers or properties are possessed determine more 
than anything else the kind of crops or the class of 
crops that will grow best on a given soil. 

These powers depend, as we learned in Chapter 
IV, on the texture of the soil or the relative amounts 
of sand, silt, clay and humus contained in the soil. 

The power of admitting a free circulation of air 
through its pores is also an important property of 
a fertile soil, for air is necessary to the life and 
growth of the roots. This property is dependent 
also on texture. 

Two other important properties of a fertile soil 
are power to absorb and power to hold heat. These 
depend upon the power of the soil to take in warm 



A FERTILE SOIL 



143 



rain and warm air, and also upon density and color. 
The denser or more compact soil and the darker soil 
having greater power to absorb heat. 

The compactness of the soil which gives it greater 
powers to absorb heat weakens its powers to hold it, 
because the compactness allows more rapid conduc- 
tion of heat to the surface, where it is lost by radia- 
tion. 

The more moisture a soil holds, the weaker is its 
heat-holding power, because the heat is used in 
warming and evaporating water from the surface 
of the soil. 

These important properties or conditions of moist- 
ure, heat and air, are, as we have seen, dependent 
on soil texture and color, which in turn are depen- 
dent upon the relative amounts of sand, clay and 
humus in the soil. We are able to control soil tex- 
ture and therefore these physical properties to a 
certain degree by means of tillage and the addition 
of organic matter or humus (see Chapter IV). 

BIOLOGICAL PROPERTIES OF A FERTILE SOIL 

Biology is the story or science of life; and the 
biological properties of the soil have to do with liv- 
ing organisms in the soil. 

,The soil of every fertile field is full of very small 
or microscopic plants called bacteria or germs. They 
are said to be microscopic because they are so small 
that they cannot be seen without the aid of a pow- 
erful magnifying glass or microscope. They are so 



144 "^^^ FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

small that it would take about 10,000 average-sized 
soil bacteria or soil germs placed side by side to 
measure one inch. 

A knowledge of three classes of these soil germs 
is of great importance to the farmer. These three 
classes of germs are : 

Nitrogen-fixing germs. 

Nitrifying germs. 

Denitrifying germs. 

NITROGEN-FIXING GERMS 

We learned in Chapter VIII that nitrogen is one 
of the necessary elements of plant food, and that 
although the air is four-fifths nitrogen, most plants 
must take their nitrogen from the soil. There is, 
however, a class of plants called legumes which can 
use the nitrogen of the air. Clover, alfalfa, lucern, 
cowpea, soy bean, snap bean, vetch and similar 
plants are legumes. These legumes get the nitrogen 
from the air in a very curious and interesting man- 
ner. It is done through the aid of bacteria or 
g^ms. 

Carefully dig up the roots of several legumes and 
wash the soil from them. On the roots will be 
found many small enlargements like root galls ; these 
are called nodules or tubercles. On clover roots 
these nodules are about the size of the head of a 
pin while on the soy bean and cowpea they are 
nearly as large as a pea (see Fig. 34). These nod- 
ules are filled with bacteria or germs and these germs 



A FERTILE SOIL 1 45 

have the power of taking nitrogen from the air 
which finds its way into the soil. After using the 
nitrogen the germ gives it to the plant which then 
uses it to build stem, leaves and roots. In this way 
the legumes are able to make use of the nitrogen of 
the soil air, and these germs which help them to do it 
by catching the nitrogen are called nitrogen-fixing 
germs. 

The work of these germs makes it possible for 
the farmer to grow nitrogen, so to speak, on the 
farm. 

By growing crops of legumes and turning them 
under to decay in the soil, or leaving the roots and 
stubble to decay after the crop is harvested, he can 
furnish the following crop with a supply of nitrogen 
in a very cheap manner and les3en the necessity of 
buying fertilizer. 

NITRIFYING GERMS 

Almost all" the nitrogen of the soil is locked up 
in the humus and cannot in that condition be used 
by the roots of plants. The nitrogen caught by the 
nitrogen-fixing germs and built into the structure 
of leguminous plants which are grown and turned 
under to feed other plants cannot be used until the 
humus, which is produced by their partiaMecay, is 
broken down and the nitrogen built into other sub- 
stances upon which the root can feed. The break- 
ing down of the humus and building of the nitrogen 
into other substances is the work of another set of 
bacteria or germs called nitrifying germs. 
10 



146 THE FIRST BOOK OP FARMING 

Thes^ nitrifying germs attack the humus, break 
it down, separate the nitrogen, cause it to unite with 
the oxygen of the air and thus build it into nitric 
acid which can be used by plant roots. This nitric 
acid if not immediately used will unite with lime or 
potash or soda or other similar substances and form 
nitrates, as nitrate of lime, nitrate of potash or com- 
mon saltpetre. These nitrates are soluble in water 
and can be easily used by plant roots. If there are 
no plant roots to use them they are easily lost by 
being washed out of the soil. The work of the 
nitrifying germs is called nitrification. 

To do their work well the nitrogen-fixing germs 
and the nitrifying germs require certain conditions. 

The soil must be moist. 

The soil must be well ventilated to supply nitro- 
gen for the nitrogen-fixing germs and oxygen for 
the nitrifying germs. 

The soil must be warm. Summer temperature is 
the most favorable. Their work begins and con- 
tinues slowly at a temperature of about forty-five 
degrees and increases in rapidity as the temperature 
rises until it reaches ninety or ninety-five. 

The nitrifying germs require phosphoric acid, 
potash and lime in the soil. 

Direct sunlight destroys these bacteria, therefore 
they cannot work at the surface of the soil unless 
it is shaded^by a crop. 

From this we see that these bacteria or germs 
work best in the soil that has conditions necessary 
for the growth and development of plant roots. 



A FERTILE SOIL 



DENITRIFYING GERMS 



H7 



These germs live on the coarse organic matter of 
the soil. Like the nitrifying germs they need oxy- 
gen, and when they cannot get it more readily else- 
where they take it from the nitric acid and nitrates. 
This allows the nitrogen of the nitrates to escape 
as a free gas into the air again, and the work of the 
nitrogen-fixing and nitrifying germs is undone and 
the nitrogen is lost. This loss of nitrogen is most 
apt to occur when the soil is poorly ventilated, be- 
cause of its being very compact, or when the soil 
spaces are filled with water. This loss of nitrogen 
by denitrification can be checked by keeping the 
soil well ventilated. 

CHEMICAL PROPERT'IES OF A FERTILE SOIL 

By the term chemical properties we have refer- 
ence to the chemical composition of the soil, the 
chemical changes which take place in the soil, and 
the conditions which influence these changes. 

The sand, clay and humus of the soil are made 
up of a great variety of substances. The larger 
part of these act simply as a mechanical support 
for the plants and also serve to bring about certain 
physical conditions. Only a very small portion of 
these substances serve as the direct food of plants 
and the chemical conditions of these substances are 
of great importance. 

In Chapter VIII we learned that plants are com- 



148 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

I 

posed of several elements and that seven necessary 
elements are taken from the soil. These seven are 
nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, magnesium, cal- 
cium, iron and sulphur. 

Now a fertile soil must contain these seven ele- 
ments of plant food and they must be in such form 
that the plant roots can use them. 

Plant roots can generally get from most soils' 
enough of the magnesium, calcium, iron, and sul- 
phur to produce well developed plants. But the 
nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium, although they 
exist in sufficient quantities in the soil, are often in 
such a' form or condition that the roots cannot get 
enough of one or more of them to produce profit- 
able crops. For this reason these three elements 
are of particular importance to the farmer for, in 
order to keep his soil fertile, he musj; so treat it that 
these elements will be made available or he must 
add more of them to the soil in the proper form or 
condition. 

Nitrogen in the soiL\ — Plant roots use nitrogen in 
the form of nitric acid and salts of nitrogen called 
nitrates. But the nitrogen of the soil is very largely 
found in the humus with the roots cannot use. A 
chemical change must take place in it and the 
nitrogen be built into nitric acid and nitrates. This, 
we have learned, is done through the aid of the 
nitrifying germs. 

Phosphoric acid in the soil. — Phosphorus does not 
exist pure in the soil. The plant finds it as a phos- 
phoric acid united with the other substances forming 



A FERTILE SOIL 



149 



phosphates. These are often not available to plants, 
but can to a certain extent be made available 
through tillage and by adding humus to the soil. 

Potash in the soil. — ^The plant finds potassium in 
potash which exists in the soil. Potash like phos- 
phoric acid often exists in forms which the plant 
cannot use but may be made available to a certain 
extent by tillage, the addition of humus, and the ad- 
dition of lime to the soil. 

Lime in the soil. — Most soils contain the element 
calcium or lime, the compound in which it is found, 
in sufficient quantities for plant food. But lime is 
also of importance to the farmer and plant grower 
because it is helpful in causing chemical changes in 
the soil which tend to prepare the nitrogen, phos- 
phoric acid and. potash for plant use. It is also 
helpful in changing soil texture. 

The chemical changes which make the plant foods 
available are dependent on moisture, heat, and air 
with its oxygen, and are therefore dependent largely 
on texture, and therefore on tillage. 

When good tillage and the addition of organic 
matter and lime do not render available sufficient 
plant food, then the supply of available food may 
be increased by the application of manure and fer- 
tilizers. 

It will be seen that all these classes of properties 
are necessary to furnish all the conditions for root 
growth. 

The proper chemical conditions require the pres- 
ence of both physical and biological properties and 



150 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

the biological work in the soil requires both chem- 
ical and physical conditions. 

From the farmer's standpoint the physical prop- 
erties seem to be most important, for the others are 
dependent on the proper texture, moisture, heat and 
ventilation which are controlled largely by tillage. 

Therefore the first effort of the farmer to improve 
the fertility of his soil should be to improve his 
methods of working the soil. 

Every one of these properties of the fertile soil, 
and consequently every one of the conditions neces- 
sary for the growth and development of plant roots, 
is influenced in some way by every operation per- 
formed on the soil, whether it be plowing, harrow- 
ing, cultivating, applying manure, growing crops, 
harvesting, or anything else, and the thoughtful far- 
mer will frequently ask himself the question : " How 
is this going to effect the fertility of my soil or the 
conditions necessary for profitable crop produc- 
tion?" 

MAINTENANCE OF FERTILITY 

The important factors in maintaining or increas- 
ing the fertility of the soil are : 

The mechanical operations of tillage, especially 
with reference to the control of soil water. 

The application of manures and fertilizers, es- 
pecially with reference to maintaining a supply of 
humus and plant food. 

Methods or systems of cropping the soil, with ref- 
erence to economizing fertility. 



CHAPTER XVII 

Soil Water 

The more important tillage tools and tillage op- 
erations we studied in Chapters XI and XII. They 
will be noticed here only in connection with their 
influence over, soil water, for in the regulation of 
this important factor in soil fertility the other con- 
ditions of fertility are also very largely controlled. 

IMPORTANCE OF SOIL WATER 

" Of all the factors influencing the growth of 
plants, water is beyond doubt the most important," 
and the maintaining of the proper amount of soil 
water is one of the most important problems of the 
thinking farmer in controlling the fertility of his 
soil. 

NECESSITY OF SOIL WATER 

The decay of mineral and organic matter in the 
soil, and the consequent setting free of plant food, 
can take place only in the presence of moisture. 
The plant food in bam manures and crops plowed 
under for green moisture, can be made available 

151 



152 THE FIRST BCX>K OF FARMING 

x)nly when there is sufficient moisture in the soil to 
permit breaking down and decomposition. 

The presence of moisture in the soil is necessary 
for the process of nitrification to take place. 

Soil moisture is necessary to dissolve plant food. 
Plant roots* can absorb food from the soil only when 
it is in solution, and it seems to be necessary that 
a large quantity of water pass through the plant 
tissues to furnish the supply of mineral elements 
required by growth. 

Moisture is necessary to build plant tissues: The 
quantity of water entering into the structure of 
growing plants varies from sixty to as high as 
ninety-five per cent, of their total weight. 

Puring the periods of active growth there is a 
constant giving off of moisture by the foliage of 
plants and this must be made good by water taken 
from the soil by their roots. 

In a series of experiments at the University of 
Wisconsin Agricultural Experiment Station, it was 
found that in raising oats, every ton of dry matter 
grown required 522.4 tons of water to produce it ; 
for every ton of dry matter of corn there were re- 
quired 309.8 tons of water ; a ton of dry red clover 
requires 452.8 tons of water to grow it. At the 
Cornell University Agricultural Experiment Sta- 
tion, a yield of potatoes at the rate of 450 bushels 
per acre represented a water requirement of 1310.75 
tons of water. 



SOIL WATER 153 



SOURCES AND FORMS OF SOIL WATER 

The soil which is occupied by the roots of plants 
receives moisture in the form of rain, snow and 
dew from above and free and capillary water rising 
from below. 

" Free water is that form of water which fills our 
wells, is found in the bottom of holes dug in the 
ground during wet seasons, and is often found 
standing on the surface of the soil after heavy 
or l6ng continued rains. It is sometimes called 
* ground water ' or * standing water,' and flows un- 
der the influence of gravity." Free water is not/ 
used directly by plants unless they are swamp plants, 
and its presence within eighteen inches of the sur- 
face is injurious to most farm plants. Free water 
serves as the main source of supply for capillary 
water. 

*' Capillary water is water which is drawn by 
capillary force or soaks into the spaces between the 
soil particles and covers these particles with a thin 
film of moisture." It is a direct source of water to 
plants. Capillary water will flow in any direction 
in the soil, the direction of flow being determined 
by texture and dryness, the flow being stronger 
toward the more compact and drier parts. If the 
soil is left lumpy and cloddy then capillary water 
cannot rise readily from below to take the place of 
that which is lost by evaporation. If, however, the 
soil is fine and well pulverized, the water rises freely 



154 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

and continuously to supply the place of that taken 
by plant roots or evappration from the surface. 



TOO MUCH WATER 

Some farm lands contain too much water for the 
growth of farm crops; for example, bottom lands 
which are so low that water falling on the surface 
cannot run off or soak down into the lower soil. 
The result is that the spaces between the soil par- 
ticles are most of the time filled with water, and 
this checks ventilation, which is a necessary factor 
in soil fertility. This state of affairs occurs also on 
sloping uplands which are kept wet by spring water 
or by seepage water from higher lands. Some soils 
are so close and compact that water falling on the 
surface finds great difficulty in percolating through 
them, and therefore renders them too wet for profit- 
able cropping during longer or shorter periods of 
the year. Nearly all such lands can be improved 
by removing the surplus waiter through drains. 
(See Chapter XXV.) ' 

Percolation and ventilation of close compact soils 
can be improved by mixing lime and organic mat- 
ter with them. 



NOT ENOUGH WATER 

In some sections of the country, particularly the 
arid and semi-arid sections of the West> the soil 



SOIL WATER 



155 



does not receive a sufficient supply of rain water for 
the production of profitable yearly crops. These 
soils are rendered unfertile by the lack of this one 
all important factor of fertility. They can be made 
fertile and productive by supplying them with suffi- 
cient water through irrigation. 

The crop-producing power of some lands is low- 
ered even in regions where the rainfall is sufficient, 
because these lands are not properly prepared by 
tillage and the addition of organic matter to ab- 
sorb and hold the water that comes to them, or 
part of the water may be lost or wasted by lack of 
proper after-tillage or after-cultivation. This state 
of affairs is of course improved by better prepara- 
tion to receive water before planting the crop and 
better methods of after-cultivation to- save the water 
for the use of tbe crop. 

LOSS OF SOIL WATER 

Aside from what is used by the crops the soil may 
lose its water in the following ways : 

Rain water which comes to the soil may be lost 
by running off over the surface of the land. This 
occurs especially on hilly farms and in the case of 
close, compact soils. 

Water may be lost from the soil by leaching 
through the lower soil. 

Water may be lost from the soil by evaporation 
from the surface. 

The soil may lose water by the growth of weeds 



156 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

which are continually pumping water up by their 
roots and transpiring it from their leaves into the 
air. 



HOW SOME FARM OPERATIONS INFLUENCE SOIL ' 
WATER 

Plowing and soil water. One of the first effects 
of deeply and thoroughly plowing a close, compact 
soil, is that rain will sink into it readily and not be 
lost by surface wash. In many parts of the coun- 
try, especially the South, great damage is done by 
the surface washing and gulleying of sloping fields. 

The shallow layer of soil stirred up by small plows 
and practice of shallow plowing so prevalent in the 
South takes in the rain readily, but as the harder 
soil beneath does not easily absorb the water the 
shallow layer of plowed soil soon fills, then becomes 
mud, and the whole mass goes down the slope. 
Where the land is plowed deep there is prepared a 
deep reservoir of loose soil that is able to hold a 
large amount of water till the harder lower soil can 
gradually absorb it. 

The soil stirred and thoroughly broken by the 
plow serves not only as a reservoir for the rainfall, 
but also acts as a mulch over the more compact soil 
below it, thus checking the rapid use of capillary 
water to the surface and its consequent loss by 
evaporation. The plow which breaks and pulver- 
izes the soil most thoroughly is the one best adapted 
to fit the soil for receiving and holding moisture. 



SOIL WATER 



157 



If the plowing is not well done or if the land is 
too dry when plowed and the soil is left in great 
coarse lumps and clods, the air circulates readily 
among the clods and takes from them what little 
moisture they may have had and generally the soil 
is left in a worse condition than if it had not been 
plowed at all. 

Fall plowing on rolling land and heavy soil leav- 
ing the surface rough helps to hold winter snows 
and rains when they fall, giving to such fields a 
more even distributfon of soil water in the spring. 

Spring plowing should be done early, before there 
is much loss of water from the surface by evapora- 
tion. 

Professor King, of the University of Wisconsin 
Agricultural Experiment Station, carried on an ex- 
periment to see how much soil water could be saved 
by early plowing. He selected two similar pieces of 
ground near each other and tested them for water 
April 29th. Immediately after testing one pi^ce was 
plowed. Seven days later. May 6th, he tested them 
for water again and found that both had lost some 
water, but that the piece which was not plowed had 
lost 9.13 pounds more water per square foot of sur- 
face than the plowed piece. This means that by 
plowing one part a week earlier than the other he 
saved in it water equal to a rainfall of nearly two 
inches or at the rate of nearly 200 tons of water 
per acre. 



158 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

HOEING, RAKING, HARROWING, AND CULTIVATING 

These operations when properly and thoroughly- 
done tend to supplement the work of the plow in 
fitting the soil to absorb rain and in making a mulch 
to check loss by surface evaporation. The entire 
surface should be worked and the soil should be 
left smooth and not in ridges. Rolling cutters and 
spring-toothed harrows are apt to leave ridges and 
should have an attachment for smoothing the sur- 
face or be followed by a smoothing harrow. Cul- 
tivators used to make mulches to save water should 
have many narrow teeth rather than few broad ones. 
If a large broad-toothed tool is used to destroy 
grass and large weeds it should be followed by a 
smoother to level the ridges and thus lessen the 
evaporating surface. The soil should be cultivated 
as soon after a rain as it can be safely worked. 

Rolling compacts the soil and starts- a quicker 
capillary movement of water toward the surface 
and a consequent loss by evaporation. When cir- 
cumstances will permit, the roller should be fol- 
lowed by a light harrow to restore the mulch. 

Ridging the land tends to lessen the amount of 
moisture in the soil because it increases the evap- 
orating surface. It should be practiced only on wet 
land or in early spring to secure greater heat. 

Drains placed in wet land remove free water to a 
lower depth and increase the depth of soil occupied 
by capillary water and therefore increase the body 
of soil available to plant roots. 



SOIL WATER 



MANURES AND SOIL WATER 



159 



Humus, as we learned in Chapter IV, has a very 
great and therefore important influence over the 
water-absorbing and water-holding powers of soils. 
Therefore, any of the farm practices that tend to in- 
crease or diminish the ambunt of humus in the soil 
are to be seriously considered because of the effect 
on the water content of the soil. For this reason the 
application of barn manures and green crops turned 
under tend to improve the water conditions of most 
soils. 

The mixing of heavy applications of coarse man- 
ures or organic matter with light sandy soils may 
make them so loose and open that they will lose 
moisture rapidly. When thfe practice is necessary 
the land should be rolled after the application of the 
manure. 



METHODS OF CROPPING AND SOIL WATER 

Constant tillage hastens the decay of organic mat- 
ter in the soil. Hence any method or system of 
cropping which does not occasionally return to the 
soil a new supply of humus tends to weaken the 
powers of the soil toward water. 

All of the operations and practices which influ- 
ence soil water also affect the other conditions nec- 
essary to root growth ; namely, texture, ventilation, 
heat, and plant food, and those operations and prac- 



l6o THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

tices which properly control and regulate soil water 
to a large degree control and regulate soil fertility. 



SELECTION OF CROPS WITH REFERENCE TO SOIL 
WATER 

While climatic conditions determine the general 
distribution of plants, the amount of water which 
a soil holds and can give up to plants during the 
growing season determines very largely the crops 
to which it is locally best adapted. 

With crops that can be grown on a wide range 
of soils the water which the soil can furnish largely 
determines the time of maturing, the yield, and often 
the quality of the crop. With such a crop a small 
supply of water tends to hasten maturity at the ex- 
pense of yield. 

The sweet potato, when wanted for early market 
and high prices, is grown on the light sandy soils 
called early truck soils. These soils hold from five 
to seven per cent, of water. That is, the texture is 
such that during the early part of the growing sea- 
son one hundred pounds of this soil is found to hold 
an average of from five to seven pounds of water 
under field conditions. This soil, holding little 
water, warms up early and thus hastens growth. 
Then as the warmer summer weather advances, the 
water supply diminishes, growth is checked, and 
the crop matures rapidly. On account of the small 
amount of water and the early checking of growth. 



SOIL WATER ' l6l 

the yield of the crop is less than if grown on a 
soil holding more water, but the earlier maturity 
makes it possible to realize a much higher price per 
bushel for the crop. A sweet potato grown on such 
a light soil is dry and starchy, a quality which brings 
a higher price in the northern markets than does 
the moist, soggy potato grown on heavier soils 
which contain more water and produce larger 
yields. 

Early white potatoes, early cabbage, water mel- 
ons, musk-melons, tomatoes and other early truck 
and market garden crops are also grown on light 
soil holding from five to seven per cent, of water. 
The main crop of potatoes and cabbage and the can- 
ning crop of tomatoes are grown on the loam soils 
holding from ten to eighteen per cent, of water. 
Such soils produce a later though much larger 
yield. 

Upland cotton produces best on a deep, loam that 
is capable of furnishing a uniform supply of about 
ten or twelve per cent, of water during the growing 
season. 

Sea Island Cotton grows best on a light, sandy 
soil holding only five per cent, of water. 

On light, sandy soils the Upland Cotton produces 
small plants with small yield of lint, while on clay 
and bottom land, which are apt to have large 
amounts of water, the plants grow very large and 
produce fewer bolls, which are very late in maturing. 

Corn, while it will grow on a wide range of soils, 
produces best on loam or moist bottom lands hold- 



1 62 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

ing about fifteen per cent, of water during the grow- 
ing season. 

The grasses and small grains do best on cool, 
firm soils holding eighteen to twenty-two per cent, 
of water. 

Sorghum or " Molasses Cane " grows best on 
good com soil, while the sugar cane of the Gulf 
States requires a soil with twenty-five per cent, of 
water for best growth. 

While the amount of water which a soil will hold 
is determined largely by texture, it is also consid- 
erably influenced by the amount and frequency of 
rainfall and the location of the soil as to whether 
it be upland or bottom land. 

The average percentage of water held by a soil 
during the growing season may be approximately 
determined in the following manner: 

Sample the soil in one of the following methods : 

Take to the field a spade, a box that will hold 
about half a bushel, and a pint or quart glass jar 
with a tight cover. If a cultivated field, select a 
place free from grass and weeds. Dig a hole one 
foot deep and about eighteen inches square. Trim 
one side of the hole square. Now from this side 
cut a slice about three inches thick and one foot 
deep, quickly place this in the box and thoroughly 
break lumps and mix together, then fill jar and cork 
tightly. 

Another method is to takp a common half-inch 
or two-inch carpenter's auger and bore into the soil 
with it. Pull it out frequently and put the soil which 



SOIL WAXES 163 

comes up with it into the jar until you have a sample 
a foot deep. If one boring twelve inches deep does 
not give sufficient soil make another boring or two 
close by and put all into the jar. 

Take the sample, by whatever method obtained, 
weigh out ten or twenty ounces of the moist soil 
and dry it at a temperature just below 212 degrees. 
When it is thoroughly dry weigh again. The dif- 
ference between the two weights will be the amount 
of water held by the sample. Now divide this by 
the weight of the dry sample and the result will be 
the per cent, of water held by the soil. 

Several samples taken from different parts of the 
field will give an average for the field. Repeat this 
every week or oftener through the season and an 
approximate estimate of the water-holding capacity 
of the soil will be obtained and consequently an 
indication of the crops to which the soil is best 
adapted. 

Example. 

Weight of a soil sample, 20 ounces. 
When dried this sample weighs ly^ ounces. 
20 — 17^ = 2j^, the water held by the soil. 
2.25 -H 17.75 = '12 plus. 

This soil held a little over twelve per cent, of 
water. If this soil continues to give about the same 
result for successive tests during the growing sea- 
son, the results would indicate a soil adapted to cot- 
ton, late truck or corn. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

THE AFTER-CULTIVATION OF CROPS 

The term " after-cultivation " is here used in re- 
ferring to those tillage operations which are per- 
formed after the crop is planted. Synonymous 
terms are " cultivation/' " inter-tillage," " working- 
the crop." 

After-cultivation influences the texture, ventila- 
tion, heat, plant food and moisture factors of fer- 
tility, but most particularly the moisture factor. 

Under ordinary circumstances the greatest benefit 
derived from after-cultivation when properly per- 
formed is the saving of soil water for the use of 
the crop. 

LOSS OF WATER BY EVAPORATION 

Soil water is seldom at rest unless the soil be 
frozen solid. When rain falls on a fertile soil there 
is a downward movement of water. When the rain 
ceases, water begins to evaporate from the surface 
of the soil. Its place is taken by water brought 
from below by capillarity. This is in turn evapor- 
ated and replaced by more from below. This proc- 
ess continues with greater or less rapidity according 
to the dryness of the air and the compactness of 
the soil. 

164 



THE AFTER-CULTIVATION OF CROPS J 65 



LOSS OF WATER THROUGH WEEDS 

We learned in a former chapter that during their 
growth farm plants require an amount of water 
equal to from 300 to 500 times their dry weight. 
Weeds require just as much water and some of 
them probably more than the cultivated plants. 
This water is largely absorbed by the roots and sent 
up to the leaves where it is transpired into the air 
and is lost from the soil, and therefore is unavail- 
able to the growing crop until it again falls onto 
the soil. 

In some parts of the country, particularly the 
semi-arid West, the rainfall is not sufficient to sup- 
ply the soil with enough water to grow such crops 
as it could otherwise produce. In the moister re- 
gions the rainfall is not evenly distributed through- 
out the growing season, and there are longer or 
shorter intervals between rains when the loss of 
water through evaporation and weeds is apt to be 
greater than the rainfall. For these reasons it is 
best to check these losses and save the water in the 
soil for the use of the crops. 



SAVING THE WATER 

This can be done by : 

Preventing the growth of weeds and by checking 
losses by evaporation with a soil mulch. 



1 66 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

TIME TO CULTIVATE 

A seedling plant is easiest killed just as it has 
started into growth. The best time to kill a plant 
starting from an underground stem or a root is 
just as soon as it appears above the surface in active 
growth. 

The best time to cultivate, then, to kill weeds is as 
soon as the weeds appear. At this time large num- 
bers can be killed with the least of effort. Do not 
let them get to be a week or two old before getting 
after them. 

In planting some crops the ground between the 
rows becomes trampled and compact. This results 
in active capillarity which brings water to the sur- 
face and it is lost by evaporation. 

Every rainfall tends to beat the soil particles to- 
gether and form a crust which enables the capillary 
water to climb to the surface and escape into the 
air. This loss by evaporation should be constantly 
watched for and the soil should be stirred and a 
mulch formed whenever it becomes compact or a 
crust is formed. 

The proper time to cultivate, then, to save water 
is as soon as weeds appear or as soon as the surface 
of the soil becomes compact or. crusted by tramp- 
ling, by the beating of rain or from any other cause, 
whether the crop is up or not. The cultivation 
should start as soon after a rain as the soil is dry 
enough to work safely. 

The surface soil should always be kept loose and 



THE A^ER-CULTIVATION OF CROPS 1 67 

Open. The efficacy of the soil mulch depends on 
the thoroughness and frequency of the operation. 
It is particularly beneficial during long, dry periods. 
During such times it is not necessary to wait for a 
rain to compact the soil ; keep the cultivators going, 
rain or no rain. 

TOOLS FOR AFTER-CULTIVATION 

The main objects of after-cultivation are to de- 
stroy weeds and to form a soil mulch for the pur- 
pose of controlling soil moisture. These ends are 
secured by shallow surface work. It is not neces- 
sary to go more than two or three inches deep. 
Deeper work will injure the roots of the crop. 
Therefore the proper tools for after-cultivation in 
the garden are the hoe and rake and for field work 
narrow-toothed harrows and cultivators or horse- 
hoes which stir the whole surface thoroughly to a 
moderate depth. These field tools are supplemented 
in some cases by the hand hoe, but over wide areas 
of country the hoe never enters the field. 

A light spike-toothed harrow can be used on com, 
potatoes, and similar crops, and accomplish the work 
of cultivation rapidly until they get to be from four 
to six inches high; after that cultivators which 
work between the rows should be used. 

A very useful class of tools for destroying weeds 
in the earlier stages are the so-called "weeders." 
They somewhat resemble a horse hay rake and have 
a number of flexible wire teeth which destroy shal- 



1 68 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

low rooted weeds but slip around the more firmly 
rooted plants of the crop. These weeders must be 
used frequently to be of much value, for after 
a weed is well rboted the weeder cannot destroy it. 

There is a larger class of hand wheel hoes which 
are very useful in working close planted garden and 
truck crops. They either straddle the row, working 
the soil on both sides at the same time, or, running 
between the rows, work the soil to a width of from 
six to eighteen inches. 

For best results with the weeder and hand wheel 
hoes the soil should be thoroughly prepared before 
planting by burying all trash with the plow and 
breaking all clods with harrow and roller. 

The objection made to the deep- working imple- 
ments, like the plow, is that they injure the crop 
by cutting its feeding roots, and this has been found 
by careful experiment and observation to diminish 
the crop. 

Some farmers object to using a light harrow for 
cultivation in the early stages of the crop because 
they say the harrow will destroy the crop as well as 
the weeds. This danger is not so great as it seems. 
The seeds of the crop are deeper in the soil than 
the seeds of the weeds which germinate and appear 
so quickly. The soil has also been firmed about 
them. Hence they have a firmer hold on the soil 
and but few of them are destroyed if the work is 
carefully done. 

In working crops not only should weeds be de- 
stroyed but also surplus plants of the crop, as these 



THE AFTER-CULTIVATION OF CROPS 1 69 

have the same effect as weeds; namely, they oc- 
cupy the soil and take plant food and moisture 
which if left to fewer plants would produce a 
larger harvest. 



HILLING AND JRIDGING 

Except in low, wet ground, the practice of hilling 
or ridging up crops is now considered by those who 
have given the matter thorough study, to be un- 
necessary, flat and shallow culture being cheaper. 
It saves more moisture, and for this reason, in the 
majority of cases, produces larger crops. 

Sometimes during very long-continued periods of 
wet weather weeds and grass become firmly estab- 
lished among the plants of the crop. Under such 
circumstances it is necessary to use on the culti- 
vator teeth having long, narrow sweeps that will 
cut the weeds just beneath the surface of the soil. 
Sometimes a broad-toothed tool is used that will 
throw sufficient soil over the large weeds near the 
rows to smother them. 

The condition to be met and the effect of the op- 
eration should always be given serious thought. 

We "have considered after-cultivation as influenc- 
ing soil fertility by checking a loss of water by evap- 
oration and weed transpiration, and this is its main 
influence but other benefits follow. 

Keeping the surface soil loose and open benefits 
fertility because it directly aids the absorption of 



170 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

rain, favors ventilation, and has a beneficial influ- 
ence over soil temperature. Indirectly through 
these factors it aids the work of the beneficial soil 
bacteria and the chemical changes in the process 
of preparing plant food for crop use. 



CHAPTER XIX 
Farm Manures 

functions of manures and fertilizers 

In Chapter II we learned that the roots of plants 
for their growth and development need a soil that 
is firm yet mellow, moist, warm, ventilated and sup- 
plied with plant food. We also learned that of the 
plant foods there is often not enough available nitro- 
gen, phosphoric acid, potash and lime for the needs 
of the growing plants. 

Manures and fertilizers are applied to the soil for 
their beneficial effects on these necessary conditions 
for root growth and therefore to assist in main- 
taining soil fertility. 

CLASSIFICATION OF MANURES AND FERTILIZERS 

Manures may be classified as follows : 

{Bam or stable manures, 
Green-crop manures, 
Composts. 

-, - ^ r f Materials fumishing nitrogen. 

Commercial fer- ,, .. u u • 'j 

. J " " phosphonc aacL 

tihzersorarti-^ ■ ,, ,, ^^ 

ficial manures. ,^ .. f^ * 

^ " " hme. 

171 



172 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

IMPORTANCE OF FARM MANURES 

Of these two classes of manures the fanner 
should rely chiefly on the farm manures letting 
the commercial fertilizers take a secondary place 
becatuse: 

Farm manures are complete manures ; that is they 
contain all the necessary elements of plant food. 

Farm manures add to the soil large amounts of 
organic matter or humus. 

The decay of organic matter produces carbonic 
acid which hastens the decay of mineral matter in 
the soil and so increases the amount of available 
plant food. 

The organic matter changes the texture of the 
soil. 

It makes sandy soils more compact and therefore 
more powerful to hold water and plant food. 

It makes heavy clay soils more open and porous, 
giving them greater power to absorb moisture and 
plant food. This admits also of better circulation 
of the air in the soil, and prevents baking in dry 
weather. 

Farm manures influence all of the conditions 
necessary for root growth while the commercial 
fertilizers influence mainly the plant food condi- 
tions. 

The farm manures are good for all soils and 
crops. 

They are lasting in their effects on the soil. 



FARM MANURES 



BARN OR STABLE MANURE 



^73 



Barn or stable manure consists of the solid and 
liquid excrement of any of the farm animals mixed 
with the straw or other materials used as bedding 
for the comfort of the animals and to absorb the 
liquid parts. 

The liquid parts should be saved, as they contain 
more than half of the nitrogen and potash in the 
manure. 

The value of bam manure for improving the soil 
conditions necessary for root growth depends in a 
measure upon the plant food in it, but chiefly upon 
the very large proportion of organic matter which 
it contains when it is applied to the soil. 

These factors are influenced somewhat: by the 
kind of animal that produces the manure; by the 
kind of food the animal receives; by the kind and 
amount of litter or bedding used; but they depend 
particularly on the way the manure is cared for 
after it is produced. 

LOSS OF VALUE 

Improper care of the manure may cause it to 
diminish in value very much. 

Loss by leaching. 

If the manure is piled against the side of the 
stable where water from the roof can drip on it, as 
is often the case, or if it is piled in an exposed place 
where heavy rain can beat on it, the rain water in 



174 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

leaching through the manure washes out of it nitro- 
gen and potash, which pass off in the dark brown 
liquid that oozes from the base of the pile. 

Loss by heating or fermenting. 

When bam manure is thrown into piles it soon 
heats and throws off more or less steam and gas. 
This heating of the manure is caused by fermenta- 
tion or the breaking down of the materials com- 
posing the manure and the forming of new com- 
pounds. This fermentation is produced by very 
small or microscopic plants called bacteria. 

The fermentation of the manure is influenced by 
the following conditions : 

A certain amount of heat is necessary to start the 
work of the bacteria. After they have once started 
they keep up and increase the temperature of the 
pile until it gets so hot that sometimes a part of the 
manure is reduced to ashes. The higher the tem- 
perature the more rapid the fermentation. This can 
be seen particularly in •piles of horse manure. 

The bacteria which produce the most rapid fer- 
mentation in manure need plenty of air with its 
oxygen. Therefore fermentation will be more or 
less rapid according as the manure is piled loosely 
or in a close compact mass. 

A certain amount of moisture is necessary for the 
fermentation to take place, but if the manure is 
made quite wet the temperature is lowered and the 
fermentation is checked. The water also checks 
the fermentation by limiting the supply of air that 
can enter the pile. 



FARM MANURES I 75 

The composition of the manure influences the fer- 
mentation. The presence of considerable amounts 
of soluble nitrogen hastens the rapidity of the fer- 
mentation. 

Now when the manure ferments a large part of 
the organic matter in it is broken down and changed 
into gases. The gas formed most abundantly by 
the fermentation is carbonic acid gas, which is pro- 
duced by the union of oxygen with carbon of the 
organic matter. The formation of this gas means 
a loss of humus. This loss can be noticed by the 
fact that the pile gradually becomes smaller. 

The next most abundant product of the fermenta- 
tion is water vapor which can often be seen pass- 
ing off in clouds of steam. 

When manure ferments rapidly the nitrogen in it 
is changed largely into ammonia. This ammonia 
combines with part of the carbonic acid gas and 
forms carbonate of ammonia, a very volatile salt 
which rapidly changes to a vapor and is lost in the 
atmosphere. This causes a great loss of nitrogen 
during the rapid decomposition of the manure. 
This loss can be detected by the well known odor 
of the ammonia which is particularly noticeable 
about horse stables and piles of horse manure. 

Besides these gases a number of compounds of 
nitrogen, potash, etc., are formed which are soluble 
in water. It is these that form the dark brown 
liquid that sometimes oozes out from the base of 
the manure heap. 

At the Cornell University Agricultural Experi- 



176 



THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 



nient Station, the following experiment was carried 
out to find out how much loss would take place 
from a pile of manure : 

" Four thousand pounds of manure from the 
horse stable were placed out of doors in a compact 
pile and left exposed from April 25th to September 
22d. The results were as follows : " 



Gross weight 

Nitrogen 

Phos. acid 

Potash 

Value of plant food per ton 



April as. 



4,000 lbs. 
19.6 ** 
14.8 •• 
36 " 
$2.30 



Sept. aa. 



1,730 lbs. 
7.79** 
7.79" 
8.65 '* 
$1.06 



Loss 

per cent. 



57 
60 

47 
76 



This shows a loss of more than half the bulk of 
the manure and more than half the plant food con- 
tained in it. 



CHECKING THE LOSSES 

The first step to be taken in preserving the man- 
ure or in checking losses is to provide sufficient 
bedding or litter in the stable to absorb and save 
all the liquid parts. 

The losses from fermentation of hot manures like 
horse manure may be largely checked by mixing 
with the colder manure from the cow stable. 

Losses from fermentation may also be checked. 

By piling compactly, which keeps the air out. 

By moistening the pile, which lowers the tem- 
perature and checks the access of oxygen. 



FARM MANURES I 77 

The manure may be hauled directly to the field 
each day and spread on the surface or plowed in. 
This method is the best when practicable because 
fermentation of the manure will take place slowly 
in the soil and the gases produced will be absorbed 
and retained by the soil. 

Gypsum or land plaster is often sprinkled on 
stable floors and about manure heaps to prevent the 
loss of ammonia. 

Copperas or blue stone, kainite and superphos- 
phate are sometimes used for the same purpose. 
There is, however, nothing better nor so good for 
this purpose as dry earth containing a large per- 
centage of humus. 

Losses from washing or leaching by rain may be 
prevented by piling the manure under cover or by 
hauling it to the field as soon as produced and 
spreading it on the surface or plowing it under. 

APPLYING THE MANURE TO THE SOIL 

From ten to twenty tons per acre is considered a 
sufficient application of barn manure for most farm 
crops. Larger amounts are sometimes applied to 
the soil for truck and market garden crops. 

Barn manures are applied to the soil by these 
methods : 

The manure is sometimes hauled out from the 
barn and placed in a large pile in the field or in 
many small piles where it remains for some time 
before being spread and plowed or harrowed in. 



178 



THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 



Some farmers spread it on the field and allow it 
to lie some time before plowing it in. 

It is sometimes spread as soon as hauled to the 
field and is immediately plowed in or mixed with 
the soil. This last is the safest and most economical 
method so far as the manure alone is concerned. 

When the manure is left in a large pile it suffers 
losses due to fermentation and leaching. 

At the Cornell University Agricultural Experi- 
ment Station, five tons of manure from the cow 
stable, including three hundred pounds of gypsum 
which was mixed with it, were exposed in a com- 
pact pile out of doors from April 25th to September 
22d. The result was as follows : 



Gross weight 

Nitrogen 

Phos. acid 

Potash 

Value of plant food per ton. 



April 35. 



10,000 lbs. 

47 " 

48 ** 
$2.29 



Sept. 33. 



5,125 lbs. 
28 ** 
26 " 

44 " 
$1.60 



Loss 
per cent. 



49 

41 

19 

8 



When distributed over the field in small piles and 
allowed to remain so for some time, losses from fer- 
mentation take place, and the rain washes plant food 
from the pile into the soil under and immediately 
about it. This results in an uneven distribution of 
plant food over the field, for when the manure is 
finally scattered and plowed in, part of the field is 
fertilized with washed out manure while the soil 
under and immediately about the location of the 




FIG. 80. — RED CLOVER. 



FARM MANURES 



179 



various plies is often so strongly fertilized that 
nothing can grow there unless it be rank, coarse 
weeds. 

When the manure is spread on the surface and 
allowed to lie for some time it is apt to become dry 
and hard, and when finally plowed in, decays very 
slowly. 

When the manure is plowed in or mixed with the 
soil as soon as applied to the field there results an 
even distribution of plant food in the soil, fermen- 
tation takes place gradually and all gases formed 
are absorbed by the soil, there is very little loss of 
valuable nitrogen and organic matter, and the fer- 
mentation taking place in the soil also aids in break- 
ing down the mineral constituents of the soil and 
making available the plant food held by them. 

Therefore it seems best to spread the manure and 
plow it in or mix it with the soil as soon as it is 
hauled to the field, when not prevented by bad 
weather and other more pressing work. 

PROPER CONDITION OF MANURE WHEN APPLIED 

A large part of the value of barn manure lies in 
the fact that it consists largely of organic matter, 
and therefore has an important influence on soil 
texture, and during its decay in the soil produces 
favorable chemical changes in the soil constituents. 
Therefore it will produce its greatest effect on the 
soil when applied fresh. For this reason it is gen- 
erally best to haul the manure to the field and mix 



l80 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

it with the soil as soon after it is produced as pos- 
sible. 

If coarse manures are mixed with light, sandy 
soils it is best to follow with the roller, otherwise 
the coarse manure may cause the soil to lie so loose 
and open that both soil and manure will lose moist- 
ure so rapidly that fermentation of the manure will 
be stopped and the soil will be unfit for planting. 

If it is desired to apply manure directly to deli- 
cate rooted truck and vegetable crops it is best to 
let it stand for some time until the first rank fer- 
mentation has taken place and the manure has be- 
come rotten. 

A good practice is to apply the manure in its fresh 
condition to coarse feeding crops like corn, and then 
follow the corn by a more delicate rooted crop 
which requires the manure to be in a more decom- 
posed condition than is necessary for the com. In 
this case the corn is satisfied and the remaining 
manure is in proper condition for the following crop 
when it is planted. 

Another practice is to broadcast the coarse ma- 
nure on grass land and then when the hay is har- 
vested the sod and remaining manure are plowed 
under for the following crop. 

A study of root development in Chapter II. tells 
us that most of the manure used for cultivated crops 
should be broadcasted and thoroughly mixed with 
the soil. A small amount may be placed in the 
drill or hill and thoroughly mixed with the soil 
for crops that are planted in rows or furrows in 



FARM MANURES l8l 

order to give the young plant a rapid start. For 
the vegetable garden and flower garden and lawns, 
it is best to apply only manure that has been 
piled for some time ;and has been turned over sev- 
eral times so that it is well rotted and broken up. 

There may not be a single farm where it will be 
possible to carry out to the letter these principles 
applying to the treatment and application of barn 
manures. 

This is because climate, crops and conditions vary 
in different parts of the country and on different 
farms. Therefore we should study carefully our 
conditions and the principles and make our practice 
so combine the two as to produce the 15est and most 
economical results under the circumstances. 

If we can get manure out in the winter it will very 
much lessen the rush of spring work. 

In some parts of the country on account of deep 
snows, heavy rainfall and hilly fields, it is not ad- 
visable to apply manure in the winter. This will 
necessitate storing the manure. 

If conditions are such that we can get the manure 
on to the land as soon as it is made, it should be 
applied to land on which a crop is growing or land 
which is soon to be planted. If land is not intended 
for an immediate crop, put a cover crop on it. 

COMPOSTS 

Composts are collections of farm trash or rubbish, 
as leaves, potato tops, weeds, road and ditch scrap- 



1 82 THE FIRST BCX)K OF FARMING 

ings, fish, slaughter-house refuse, etc., mixed in 
piles with lime, bam manure, woods-earth, swramp 
muck, peat and soil. 

The object of composting these materials is to 
hasten their decay and render available the plant 
food in them. 

There are certain disadvantages in composting, 
namely: 

Expense of handling and carting on account of 
bulk. 

Low composition. 

Loss of organic matter by fermentation. 

Compost heaps serve as homes for weed seeds, in- 
sects and plant diseases. 

Nevertheless, all waste organic matter on the 
farm should be saved and made use of as manure. 
These materials when not too coarse may be spread 
on the surface of the soil and plowed under; they 
should never be burned unless too coarse and woody 
or foul with weed seeds, insects and disease. 




FIG. 82. — A YOUNG ALFALFA PLANT JUST COMING INTO FLOWER. 



CHAPTER XX 
Farm Manures — Concluded 

green-crop manures 

Green-crop manures are crops grown and plowed 
under for the purpose of improving the fertility of 
the soil. 

The main object of turning these crops under is 
to furnish the soil with humus. Any crop may be 
used for this purpose. 

By growing any of the class of crops called 
Legumes we may add to the soil not only humus but 
also nitrogen. Cowpeas, beans, clover, vetch and 
plants having foliage, flowers, seed pods and seeds 
like them are called Legumes. 

Most of the farm plants take their nitrogen from 
the soil. This nitrogen is taken in the form of 
nitric acid and nitrogen salts dissolved in soil water. 
The legumes, however, are able to use the free 
nitrogen which forms four-fifths of the atmosphere. 
This they do not of their own power but through 
the aid of very minute plants called bacteria or 
nitrogen-fixing germs. These germs are so small 
that they cannot be seen without the use of a pow- 
erful microscope. It would take ten thousand aver- 

183 



1 84 



THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 



age sized bacteria placed side by side to measure 
one inch. 

These little germs make their homes in the roots 
of the legumes, causing the root to enlarge at cer- 
tain points and form tubercles or nodules (Figs. 
34 and 35). 

Carefully dig up a root of clover, cowpea, soy 
bean or other legume and wash the soil from it. 
You will find numbers of the little tubercles or 
nodules. On the clover they will be about the size 
of a pin head or a little larger. On the soy bean 
they will be nearly as large as the beans. These 
nodules are filled with colonies or families of bac- 
teria which take the free nitrogen from the air 
which penetrates the soil and give it over to the 
plant in return for house rent and starch or other 
food they may have taken from the plant. 

In an experiment at Cornell University Agricul- 
tural Experiment Station, in 1896, clover seeds were 
sown August 1st, and the plants were dug Novem- 
ber 4th, three months and four days after the seeds 
were sown. The clovers were then weighed and 
tested and the following results were obtained : 





Nitrogen in an Acre of Clovers. 




Lbs. in tops. 


Lbs. in roots. 


Lbs., total. 


Crimson Clover 


125.28 

67.57 
63.11 


30.66 

78.39 
40.25 


155.94 
145.96 
103.36 


Mammoth Clover 

Red Clover 





FARM MANURES — CONCLUDED 1 85' 

A large part of the nitrogen found in these plants 
was undoubtedly taken by the roots from the soil 
air. 

Besides adding humus and nitrogen to the soil 
the legumes, being mostly deep-rooted plants, are 
able to take from the subsoil food which is out of 
reach of other plants. This food is distributed 
throughout the plant and when the plant is plowed 
under the food is deposited in the upper soil for the 
use of shallow-rooted plants. 

BENEFITS 

The benefits derived from green crop manuring 
then are as follows : 

We add to the soil organic matter or humus which 
is so helpful in bringing about the conditions neces- 
sary for root growth. 

By using the legumes for our green manure crops 
we may supply the soil' with nitrogen taken from 
the air. 

We return to the surface soil not only the plant 
food taken from it but also plant food brought from 
the subsoil by the roots of the green manure plants. 

'character of best plants for GREEN CROP 
MANURING 

The plants best adapted to green crop manuring 
are deep-rooted, heavy-foliaged plants. Of these 
the legumes are by far the best, as they collect the 



1 86 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

free nitrogen from the air which other plants can- 
not do. This enables the farmer to grow nitrogen 
which is very expensive to buy. 

THE TIME FOR GROWING GREEN MANURE CROPS 

Green manure crops may be grown at any time 
that the soil is not occupied by other crops, pro- 
vided other conditions are suitable. Land which is 
used for spring and summer crops often lies bare 
and idle during fall and winter. A hardy green 
manure crop planted after the summer crop is har- 
vested will make considerable growth during the 
fall and early spring, and this can be plowed under 
for the use of the following summer crops. If there 
is a long interval of time during spring or summer 
when the land is bare, that is a good time for a 
green manure crop. 

Green manure crops are often planted between 
the rows of other crops such as com or cotton at 
the last working of the crop for the benefit of the 
crop which is to follow. 

It is advisable to arrange for a green manure 
crop at least once in three or four years. 

LEGUMINOUS GREEN MANURE CROPS 

Cowpea, (Field pea, stock pea, black pea, black- 
eyed pea, clay pea, etc.) (Fig. 79.) 

The cowpea is perhaps the most important legu- 
minous plant grown for soil improvement in the 



FARM MANURES— CONCLUDED 1 87 

South. It will grow anywhere south of the Ohio 
River and can be grown with fair success in many 
localities farther north. 

It is a tender annual, that is, it is killed by frost 
and makes its entire growth from seed to seed in a 
single season. It should therefore be planted only 
during the spring and summer. This crop not only 
has power like the other legumes to take nitrogen 
from the air,' but it is also a strong feeder, that is, 
it can feed upon mineral plant food in the soil that 
other plants are unable to make use of. For this 
reason it will grow on some of the poorest soils, 
and is a good plant with which to begin the improve- 
ment of very poor land. It is a deep-rooted plant. 
On the farm of the Hampton Normal and Agricul- 
tural Institute cowpea roots have been traced to 
the depth of sixty-one inches. 

Cowpeas will grow on almost any land that is not 
too wet. From one and one-half to three bushels 
of seed are used per acre. These are sown broadcast 
and harrowed in or are planted in drills or furrows 
and cultivated a few times. Aside from its value as 
a green manure crop the cowpea is useful as food 
for man and the farm animals. The green pods are 
used as string beans or snaps. The ripened seeds 
are used as a food and the vines make good fodder 
for the farm animals. 

" Experiments at the Louisiana Experiment Sta- 
tion show that one acre of cowpeas yielding 3,970.38 
pounds of organic matter, turned under, gave to the 
soil 64.95 pounds oi nitrogen, 20.39 pounds of 



1 88 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

phosphoric acid and 110.56 pounds of potash/' — 
Farmer's Bulletin, 16 U. S. Dept. of Agriculture. 

" It is now grown in all the States south of the 
Ohio River, and in 1899 there were planted nearly 
800,000 acres to the crop. Basing our estimate on 
the amount of nitrogen stored in the soil by this 
crop, it is fair to say that fully fifteen million pounds 
of this valuable substance were collected and re- 
tained as a result of the planting of the cowpea 
alone. This at fifteen cents per pound (the market 
price of nitrogen) would be worth something more 
than $2,000,000 for nitrogen alone." — ^Year Book of 
the Department of Agriculture, 1902. 

The Clovers. — These are the most extensively 
grown plants for green manure purposes in the 
United States. They are deep-rooted, and are able 
to use mineral food that is too tough for other 
plants. They furnish large crops of hay or green 
forage and a good aftermath and sod to turn under 
as green manure, or the entire crop may be plowed 
under. 

Red Clover is the most widely planted (Fig. 80). 
It is a perennial plant and grows from the most 
northern States to the northern border of the Gulf 
States. It grows best on the loams and heavier 
soils well supplied with water, but not wet. It is 
sown broadcast at the rate of from ten to twenty 
pounds of seed per acre. In the North it is gen- 
erally sown in the spring on fields of winter grain. 
In the South, September and October are recom- 
mended as the proper sowing times. It is the cus- 



FARM MANURES — CONCLUDED 1 89 

torn to let it grow two years, cutting it for hay and 
seed, and then to turn the aftermath and sod 
under. 

Mammoth Red Clover, also called sapling clover 
and pea-vine clover, closely resembles the red 
clover, but is ranker in growth and matures two or 
three weeks later. It is better adapted to wet land 
than the red clover. 

Crimson Clover, also called German clover and 
Italian clover, is a valuable green manure crop in 
the central and southern States east of the Missis- 
sippi. It is a hardy annual in tha* section and is 
generally sown from the last of July to the middle 
of October, either by itself or with cultivated crops 
at their last working. Fifteen and twenty pounds 
of seed are used to the acre. It makes a good 
growth during the fall and early winter and is in 
blossom and ready to cut or plow under in April or 
May. It grows at a season when the cowpea will 
not live. Crimson clover will grow on soils too 
light for other clovers. 

The Soy Bean, also called soja bean and Japanese 
pea, is another leguminous crop used for green 
manuring (Fig. 8i). It was introduced into this 
country from Japan and in some localities is quite 
extensively planted. It grows more upright than 
the cowpea and produces a large amount of stem 
and foliage which may be used for fodder or turned 
under for green manure^ The seeds are used for 
food for man and beast. The soy bean is planted 
and cared for in the same manner as the cowpea. 



I go THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

The Canadian Field Pea is sometimes grown in 
the north as a green manure crop. 

White Sweet Clover, white melitot or Bokhara 
clover, grows as a weed from New England to the 
Gulf of Mexico. In the Gulf States it is regarded 
as a valuable forage and green manure plant. One 
or two pecks of seed per acre are sown in January 
or February. 

Alfalfa, or lucem, though gjown more for a 
forage crop than for green manuring, should be 
mentioned here, for wherever grown and for what- 
ever purpose, its effects on the soil are beneficial 
(Fig. 82). This plant requires a well prepared soil 
that is free from weeds. Twenty to twenty-five 
pounds of seed are planted per acre. In the north 
the seeding is generally done in the spring after 
danger of frost is past, as frost kills the young 
plants. In the South fall seeding is the custom in 
order to give the young plants a long start ahead 
of the spring weeds. One seeding if well cared for 
lasts for many years. Alfalfa is pastured or cut for 
hay, four to eight tons being the yield. Many fields 
run out in five or six years and the sod is plowed 
under. This plant sends its roots thirteen, sixteen, 
and even thirty feet into the soil after water and 
food, and when these roots decay they furnish the 
lower soil with organic matter and their passages 
serve as drains and ventilators in the soil. Alfalfa 
is grown extensively in the semi-arid regions of the 
country. 



FARM MANURES CONCLUDED 



191 



NON-LEGUMINOUS GREEN MANURE PLANTS 

Among the non-leguminous green manure plants 
are rye, wheat, oats, mustard, rape, buckwheat. Of 
these the rye and buckwheat are most generally 
used, the rye being a winter crop and the other a 
warm weather plant. They are both strong feeders 
and can use tough plant food. They do not add 
new nitrogen to the soil though they furnish humus 
and prepare food for the weaker feeders which may 
follow them. 



CHAPTER XXI 
Commercial Fertilizers 

the raw materials 

Next to the soil itself, the farmer's most impor- 
tant sources of plant food are the farm manures. 
But most farms do not produce these in sufficient 
quantities to keep up the plant food side of fer- 
tility. Therefore the farmer must resort to other 
sources of plant food to supplement the farm ma- 
nures. 

There is a large class of materials' called Com- 
mercial Fertilizers, which, if judiciously used, will 
aid in maintaining the fertility of the farm with 
economy. 

We learned in a previous chapter that the plant 
foods, nitrogen, phosphoric acid, potash and lime, 
are apt to be found wanting in sufficient available 
quantities to supply the needs of profitable crops. 
We learned also that lime is useful in improving 
the texture of the soil and in making other plant 
foods available. Now the commercial fertilizers 
are used to supply the soil with these four sub- 
stances and they may be classified according to the 
substance furnished as follows: 
192 



COMMERCIAL FERTILIZERS 193 

Sources of nitrogen, 

" • " phosphoric acid, 
" potash, 
" lime. 



SOURCES OF NITROGEN 

Nitrogen is the most expensive of plant foods to 
buy, therefore special attention should be given to 
producing it on the farm by means of barn manures 
and legumes plowed under. 

The principal commercial sources of nitrogen are : 
Nitrate of soda, sulphate of ammonia, dried blood, 
tankage, dry ground fish, cotton-seed meal. 

Nitrate of Soda or Chile saltpetre containing 15.5 
per cent, of nitrogen, is found in large deposits in 
the rainless regions of western South America. In 
the crude state as it comes from the mine it con- 
tains common salt and earthy matter as impurities. 
To remove these impurities the crude nitrate is put 
into tanks of warm water. The nitrate dissolves 
and the salt and earthy matter settle to the bottom 
of the tank. The water with the nitrate in solution 
is then drawn off into other tanks from which the 
water is evaporated, leaving the nitrate, a coarse, 
dirty looking salt which is packed in three-hundred- 
pound bags and shipped. 

Plants that take their nitrogen from the soil take 
it in the form of nitrate. Hence nitrate of soda, 
which is very soluble in water, is immediately avail- 
able to plants and is one of the most directly useful 
?3 



194 '^^^ FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

nitrogen fertilizers. It is used for quick results and 
should be applied only to land that has a crop or is 
to be immediately planted, otherwise it is liable to 
be lost by leaching. 

Sulphate of Ammonia contains 20 per cent, 
of nitrogen. It is a white salt, finer and cleaner 
looking than the nitrate. It is a by-product of the 
gas works and coke ovens. The nitrogen in it is 
quite readily available. 

Dried Blood contains 8 to 12 per cent, of nitro- 
gen. This is blood collected in slaughter-houses 
and dried by steam or hot air. It decays rapidly 
in the soil and is a quick acting nitrogen fertilizer. 

Tankage contains 4 to 8 per cent, of nitro- 
gen and 7 to 20 per cent, of phosphoric acid. 
Slaughter-house waste, such as meat and bone 
scrap, are boiled or steamed to extract the fat. The 
settlings are dried and ground and sold as tankage. 
It is much slower in its action than dried blood and 
supplies the crop with both nitrogen and phosphoric 
acid. 

Dried Fish Scrap is a by-product of the fish oil 
factories and the fish canning factories. It contains 
7 to 9 per cent, of nitrogen and 6 to 8 per cent, of 
phosphoric acid. It undergoes nitrification readily 
and is a quick acting organic source of nitrogen 
and phosphoric acid. 

Cotton-seed Meal contains 7 per cent, of nitro- 
gen, about 2.5 phosphoric acid, and 1.5 per cent, of 
potash. It is a product of the cotton oil factories 
and is obtained by grinding the cotton seed cake 



COMMERCIAL FERTILIZERS 



195 



from which the oil has been pressed. It is a most 
valuable source of nitrogen for the South. 

The nitrogen in the dried blood, tankage, fish 
scrap and cotton-seed meal, being organic nitrogen, 
must be changed by the process of nitrification tq 
nitric acid or nitrate before it is available. They 
are therefore better materials to use for a more 
gradual and continuous feeding of crops than the 
nitrate of soda or sulphate of ammonia. 

Scrap leather, wool waste, horn and hoof shav- 
ings are rich in nitrogen but they decay so slowly 
that they make poor fertilizers. They are used by 
fertilizer manufacturers in making cheap mixed fer- 
tilizers. 

SOURCES OF PHOSPHORIC ACID 

The principal commercial sources of phosphoric 
acid are : 

Phosphate Rocks. 

Bones. 

Fish scrap. 

Phosphate slag. 

The Phosphate Rocks are found in shallow mines 
in North and South Carolina, Georgia, Florida and 
Tennessee, and also as pebbles in the river beds. 
They are the fossil remains of animals. After be- 
ing dug from the mines the rock is kiln dried and 
then ground to a very fine powder called " floats " 
which is used on the soil. The phosphoric acid in 
the floats is insoluble and becomes available only as 
the phosphate decays. This is too slow for most 



196 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

plants SO it is treated with oil of vitriol or sulphuric 
acid to make it available. The phosphoric acid in 
the ground rock is combined with lime, forming a 
phosphate of lime which is insoluble. When treated 
with the oil of vitriol or sulphuric acid, the sul- 
phuric acid takes lime from the phosphatcand forms 
sulphate of lime or gypsum. The phosphoric acid 
is left combined with the smallest possible amount 
of lime and is soluble in water. It is then called 
soluble or water soluble phosphoric acid. 

Now if this soluble form remains unused it be- 
gins to take on lime again and turns back toward 
its original insoluble form. After a time it gets to 
such a state that it is no longer soluble in water but 
is soluble in weak acids. It is then said to be re- 
verted phosphoric acid. Reverted phosphoric acid 
is also called citrate soluble phosphoric acid, because 
in testing fertilizers the chemists use ammonium ci- 
trate to determine the amount of reverted phos- 
phoric acid. 

This form still continues to take on lime and by 
and by gets back to the original insoluble form 
called insoluble phosphoric acid. 

The soluble phosphoric acid and reverted phos- 
phoric acid are available to plant roots. The in- 
soluble form is not. 

The rock phosphates contain from 26 to 35 per 
cent, of insoluble phosphoric acid. The acid phos- 
phates or dissolved rock phosphates contain. from 12 
to 16 per cent, of available phosphoric acid and from 
I to 4 per cent, of insoluble. . 



COMMERCIAL FERTILIZERS 1 97 

Bone Fertilisers, Bones have long been a valu- 
able and favored source of phosphoric acid. In ad- 
dition to phosphoric acid they contain some nitrogen 
which adds to their value. They are organic phos- 
phates and are quite lasting in their effect on the soil 
as they decay slowly. 

The terms "Raw Bone," "Steamed Bone," 
" Ground * Bone," "Bone Meal," "Bone Dust," 
"Bone Black," "Dissolved Bone," indicate the 
processes through which the bone has passed in 
preparation, or the condition of the material as put 
on the market and used on the soil. 

Ground bone, bone meal, bone dust, indicate the 
mechanical conditions of the bones. 

The bones are sometimes ground " raw " just as 
they come from the slaughter-house or kitchen, or 
they are sometimes first •" steamed " to extract the 
fat for soap, and the nitrogenous matter for glue. 

Raw Bone, Analysis : Nitrogen, 2.5 to 4.5 per 
cent. Available phosphoric acid, 5 to 8 per cent. 
Insoluble phosphoric acid 15 to 17 per cent. 

Steamed Bone contains 1.5 to 2.5 per cent, of ni- 
trogen, 6 to 9 per cent, of available phosphoric acid 
and 16 to 20 per cent, of insoluble phosphoric acid. 

Steamed bone pulverizes much finer than raw 
bone and decays more rapidly in the soil because 
the fat has been extracted from it. 

Dissolved Bone, Ground bone is sometimes 
treated with sulphuric acid to render the phosphoric 
acid in it more available. It is then called dissolved 
bone and contains thirteen to fifteen per cent, of 



1 98 THE FIRST BOOK OP FARMING 

available phosphoric acid and two to three per cent, 
of nitrogen. 

Dissolved Bone Black. Bone charcoal is used for 
refining sugar. It is then turned over to the ferti- 
lizer manufacturers who sell it as " Bone Black " or 
treat it with sulphuric acid and then put it on the 
market as dissolved bone black. 

The bone black contains thirty to thirty-six per 
cent, of insoluble phosphoric acid. 

The dissolved bone black contains 15 to 17 per 
cent, of available phosphoric acid and i to 2 per 
cent, insoluble. 

''Thomas Slag/' ''Phosphate Slag/' "Odorless 
Phosphate." Phosphorous is an impurity in certain 
iron ores. In the manufacture of Bessemer steel 
this is extracted by the use of lime which melts in 
the furnace, unites with the phosphorous and brings 
it away in the slag. This slag is ground to a fine 
powder and used as a fertilizer. It contains 1 1 to 
23 per cent, of phosphoric acid, most of which is 
available. , 

Superphosphate. The term superphosphate is ap- 
plied to the phosphates that have been treated with 
sulphuric acid to make the phosphoric acid avail- 
able. Dissolved bone, dissolved bone black, and the 
dissolved phosphate rocks are superphosphates. 

Fish Scrap, mentioned as a source of nitrogen, is 
also a valuable source of phosphoric acid, contain- 
ing 6 to 8 per cent., which is quite readily available 
owing to the rapid decay of the scrap. 



COMMERCIAL FERTILIZERS 



SOURCES OF POTASH 



199 



The chief sources of potash used for fertilizers 
are the potash salts from the potash mines at Stass- 
furt, Germany, where there is an immense deposit 
of rock salt and potash salts. 

The principal products of these mines used in this 
country are the crude salts: 

Kainite, containing 12 per cent, of potash. 

Sylvinite, containing 16 to 20 per cent, of potash, 
and the higher grade salts manufactured from the 
crude salts : 

Muriate of Potash, containing 50 per cent.^ potash. 

High grade Sulphate of Potash, containing 50 per 
cent, potash. 

Low grade Sulphate of Potash, containing 25 per 
cent, potash. 

Wood Ashes, if well kept and not allowed to get 
wet and leach, contain 4 to 9 per cent, of potash. 

Cotton Hull Ashes contain 20 to 30 per cent, of 
potash and 7 to 9 per cent, of phosphoric acid. 

The potash in all these forms is soluble in water 
and equally available to plants. The crude salts, 
kainite and sylvinite, and the muriate contain chlo- 
rine and are not considered good for potatoes and 
tobacco as the chlorine lowers the quality of these 
products. 

In tobacco regions tobacco refuse is a valuable 
source of potash, the stems are about five per cent, 
potash. 



200 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 



LIME 

Lime is generally supplied to the soil in the form 
of quicklime made by burning lime stone or shells. 
Other forms are gypsum or land plaster, gas lime (a 
refuse from gas works) and marl. Most soils con- 
tain sufficient lime for the food requirements of 
most plants. Some soils, however, are deficient in 
lime and some crops, particularly the legumes, are 
benefitted by direct feeding with lime. 

Lime is valuable for its effect on the soil proper- 
ties which constitute fertility. 

Physically lime acts on the texture of the soil 
making clay soils mealy and crumbly, and causing 
the lighter soils to adhere or stick together more 
closely. 

Chemically, lime decomposes minerals containing 
potash and other plant foods, thus rendering them 
available for the use of plants. It also aids the de- 
cay of organic matter and sweetens sour soils. 

Biologically lime aids the process of nitrification. 

The action of lime is greatest in its caustic or un- 
slacked form. 

Too much or too frequent liming may injure the 
soil. It should be carefully tried in a small way, 
and its action noted, before using it extensively. 

A common way of using lime is to place twenty 
to forty bushels on an acre in heaps of three to five 
bushels, covering them with soil until the lime slacks 
to a fine powder. The lime is then spread and har- 
rowed in. Lime tends to hasten the decay of hu- 



COMMERCIAL FERTILIZERS — CONTINUED 20I 

mus. It should not be applied oftener than once in 
four or five years. 

Gypsum, a sulphate of lime, is similar to lime in 
its action on the soil. Its most important effect is 
the setting free of potash from its compounds. 

Gas lime should be used with great care as it 
contains substances that are poisonous to plant 
roots. It is best to let it lie exposed to the weather 
several months before using. 

Marl is simply soil containing an amount of lime 
varying from five to fifty per cent. It has value in 
the vicinity of marl beds but does not pay to haul 
very far. 



CHAPTER XXII 
Commercial Fertilizers — Continued 

mixed fertilizers 

What they are. 

There are a large number of business concerns in 
the country which buy the raw materials described in 
Chapter XXI, mix them in various proportions, and 
sell the product as mixed or manufactured ferti- 
lizers. If these mixtures contain the three important 
plant foods, nitrogen, phosphoric acid and potash, 
they are sometimes called " complete " manures or 
fertilizers. In some parts of the country all com- 
mercial fertilizers are called " guano." 

Many brands. 

These raw materials are mixed in many different 
proportions and many dealers have special brands 
for special crops. There are consequently large 
numbers of brands of fertilizers which vary in the 
amounts, proportions and availability of the plant 
foods they contain. For instance, in 1903, twenty- 
three fertilizer manufacturers offered for sale 
ninety-six different brands in the State of Rhode 
Island. In Missouri one hundred and ten brands, 
made by sixteen different manufacturers, were of- 
202 



COMMERCIAL FERTILIZER — CONTINUED 2O3 

fered for sale. Eighty-three manufacturers placed 
six hundred and forty-four brands on the market in 
New York State during the same year. Of one 
hundred and twenty brands registered for sale in 
Vermont in the spring of 1904, there were seventeen 
mixtures for corn and thirty-four for potatoes. 

The result of this is more or less confusion on the 
part of the farmer in purchasing fertilizers, and with 
many a farmer it is a lottery as to whether or not 
he is buying what his crop or his soil needs. 

Some of the manufacturers are not above using 
poor, low grade, raw materials in making these 
mixtures. 

This means that the farmer should make himself 
familiar with the subject of fertilizers if he desires 
to use them intelligently and economically. 

Safeguard for the farmer. 

As a safeguard to the buyer of fertilizers the 
State laws require that every brand put on the mar- 
ket shall be registered and that every bag or pack- 
age sold shall have stated on it an analysis showing 
the amounts of nitrogen, or its equivalent in am- 
monia, the soluble phosphoric acid, the reverted 
phosphoric acid, the insoluble phosphoric acid, and 
the potash. 

This registration is generally made at the State 
experiment station, and the director of the station 
is instructed to take samples of these brands and 
have them analyzed, and publish the results together 
with the analysis guaranteed by the maker. 

These analyses are published in bulletin form and 



204 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

should be in the hands of every farmer who makes 
a practice of using commercial fertilizers. 

The manufacturers of fertilizers comply with the 
law by printing on the bag or package the per cents 
of plant food in the fertilizers, and these statements 
in the great majority of cases agree favorably with 
the analyses of the experiment stations, but they do 
not in all cases state what materials were used to 
furnish the different kinds of plant food, and it is 
not always possible to find this out by analysis. 

Low grade materials. 

For instance in mixing a fertilizer one manufac- 
turer may use dried blood to furnish nitrogen and 
another may use leather waste or horn shavings. 
The latter contains more nitrogen than the dried 
blood, but they are so tough and decay so slowly 
that they are of little benefit to a quick growing 
plant. 

Inflating the guarantee. 

Although the dealer states correctly the per cents 
of plant food in the fertilizer, he is quite frequently 
inclined to repeat this in a different form, and thus 
give the impression that the mixture contains more 
than it really does. 

The dealers also give the nitrogen as ammonia 
because it makes a larger showing. 

Phosphoric acid is often stated as "bone phos- 
phate" because in this the amount appears to be 
greater. 

For example, an analysis taken from a fertilizer 
catalogue reads as follows: . 



COMMERCIAL FERTILIZERS — CONTINUED 2O5 

Ammonia 2 to 3 per cent. 

Available Phosphoric Acid ........ 8 to 10 

Total Phosphoric Acid 11 to 14 

Total Bone Phosphate 23 to 25 

Actual Potash 10 to 12 

Sulphate of Potash 18 to 20 

A better statement would be as follows : 

Nitrogen .' 1 . 65 per cent. 

Available Phosphoric Acid 8 ** 

Totol Phosphoric Acid (furnished in 

Bone Phosphate) 11 ** 

I Potash ^ (furnished in Sulphate of 

Potash) lo •* 

Ammonia is reduced to terms of nitrogen by mul- 
tiplying by .824. All bone phosphate is forty-six 
per cent, phosphoric acid. When bone phosphate is 
given instead of phosphoric acid it simply makes 
the mixture appear to have more in it, and when 
both phosphoric acid and bone phosphate are stated 
one is merely a repetition of the other. The same 
is true of the statements, potash and sulphate of 
potash, one is a repetition of the other only a dif- 
ferent form. 

VALUATION 

The experiment stations not only publish com- 
parative analyses of the registered fertilizers but 
they also compute the market values of the plant 
food contained in them and compare these valua- 
tions with the selling price of the fertilizers. 
• They also furnish a list of trade values of the 
plant foods in raw materials for the convenience of 



206 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

fertilizer buyers in testing the values of the brands 
offered them on the markets. 

In the following list are given the " trade values 
agreed upon by the Experiment Stations of Massa- 
chusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New Jersey 
and Vermont, after a careful study of prices ruling 
in the larger markets of the southern New England 
and Middle States." 

Trade values of fertilizing ingredients in raw 
materials and chemicals for 1904 : 

Cents per lb. 

Nitrogen in Nitrates 16 

Nitrogen in Ammonia Salts 17^ 

Organic Nitrogen in dry and fine ground fish, blood, 

and meat, and in mixed fertilizers 17^ 

Organic Nitrogen in fine ground bone and tankage . . 17 

Organic Nitrogen in coarse bone and tankage 12^ 

Phosphoric Acid soluble in water 4)^ 

Phosphoric Acid soluble in ammonium citrate 4 

Phosphoric Acid in fine ground bone and tankage ... 4 

Phosphoric Acid in coarse bone and tankage 3 

Phosphoric Acid (insoluble in water and in ammonium 

citrate) in mixed fertilizer 2 

Potash as high-g^de sulphate and in mixtures free 

from muriate (chloride) : . . 5 

Potash as muriate • ^}( 

For example, in calculating the commercial value 
of the plant food in a fertilizer we will take the 
formula mentioned on page 205, namely: 

Ammonia 2 to 3 per cent. 

Available Phosphoric Acid 8 to 10 

Total Phosphoric Acid 11 to T4 

Total Bone Phosphates 23 to 25 

Actual Potash 10 to 12 

Sulphate of Potash 18 to 20 



COMMERCIAL FERTILIZERS— CONTINUED 



207 



This fertilizer is evidently a mixture of bone meal 
and sulphate of potash and the plant food contained 
in it is as follows : 

Nitrogen 1 .65 per cent. 

Available Phosphoric Acid 8 " 

Insoluble Phosphoric Acid 3 " 

Potash 10 '• 

One hundred pounds of the mixture would con- 
tain: 

Nitrogen 1.64 value at ly^^c. . .29 

Available Phosphoric Acid 8 ** ** 4c 32 

Insoluble Phosphoric Acid 3 " " 2c 06 

Potash 10 " •* 5c 50 

Total $1.17 

In one ton the whole value would be twenty times 
this or $23.40. Add to this $8, which is about the av- 
erage charge for mixing, bagging, shipping, selling 
and profit, and we find that $32 is probably the low- 
est figure at which this fertilizer could be purchased 
on the markets, and very likely the price would be 
higher as we have taken the lowest guaranteed per 
cent, of plant food for our basis of calculation. 

Fertilizers are generally mixed and sold to the 
farmer on the ton basis. 



LOW GRADE MIXTURES 

Most dealers, to meet a certain demand, furnish 
mixtures ranging from $15 to $25 per ton. These 
mixtures are necessarily low grade and are more 



208 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

expensive than the higher priced high grade mix- 
tures. 

For example : 

A certain potato fertilizer on the market, which 
we will call mixture A, has the following guaran- 
teed analysis: 

Ammonia 7 to 8 per cent. 

Available Phosphoric Acid 6 to 7 *' 

Actual Potash 5 to 6 " 

A ton of this would contain : 

Pounds. 

Nitrogen 115.4 value at I7>^c.. . $20.19 

Available Phosphoric Acid. . . 120 ** " 4c 4. 80 

Potash 100 ** " 5c 5-00 



Totals 335-4 $29.99 

Add to this the average charge for mixing, bag- 
ging, selling, profit, etc.,' $8, and the cost will be 

$37.99. 

The selling price of this fertilizer would probably 
be not less than $40. Now suppose the farmer 
thinks this a high priced and expensive , fertilizer 
and looks about for something cheaper. He finds 
a low grade potato fertilizer, which we will call 
mixture B, that has the following guarantee : 

Ammonia 3^ to 4 per cent. 

Available Phosphoric Acid 3 to 3>i ** 

Actual Potash , 2>^ to 3 *' 

Just one-half the guarantee of the high grade mix- 
ture A. A ton of this contains : 



COMMERCIAL FERTILIZERS — CONTINUED 2O9 

Pounds. 

Nitrogen <.... 57.7 value at I7>^c... $10.10 

Available Phosphoric Acid .. . 60 ** ** 4c 2.40 

Potash 50 " ** 5c 2.50 



Totals 167.7 $15.00 

Add average charge for mixing, etc 8.00 

$23.00 

The selling price of this would very likely be not 
less than $25. 

This seems at first sight to be cheaper and more 
reasonable. But let us see. 

In a ton of mixture A he gets 335.4 pounds of 
plant food for $40, or at an average cost of twelve 
cents per pound, while in a ton of mixture B he 
gets 167.7 pounds of plant food for $25, or at an 
average cost of fifteen cents per pound. 

To put it another way, in a ton of the high grade 
mixture A, he gets 335.4 pounds of plant food for 
$40. To get the same amount of plant food, 335.4 
pounds, in the low grade mixture, B, it will be 
necessary to buy two tons at a cost of $50. 

A low grade fertilizer is always expensive even 
if the plant food is furnished by high grade ma- 
terials. 

BUY ON THE PLANT FOOD BASIS 

The farmer generally buys his fertilizer on the 
ton basis. A better method is to buy just as the 
fertilizer manufacturers buy the raw materials they 
use for mixing, namely, on the basis of actual plant 
food in the fertilizer. The dealers have what they 
14 



2IO THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

call the "unit basis," a "unit" meaning one per 
cent, of a ton or twenty pounds of plant food. A 
ton of nitrate of soda, for instance, contains 310 
pounds or ISJ^ units of nitrogen, which at $3.20 
cents per unit would cost $49. Buy your mixture 
of a reliable firm, find out the actual amounts of the 
plant foods in the mixture and pay a fair market 
price for them. 



CHAPTER XXIII 
Commercial Fertilizers — Concluded 

the home mixing of fertilizers 

When a considerable amount of fertilizer is used 
a better plan than buying mixed fertilizer is to buy 
the raw materials and mix them yourself. For ex- 
ample, a farmer is about to plant five acres of cab- 
bages for the market. He finds that a certain suc- 
cessful cabbage grower recommends the use of fifty 
pounds nitrogen, fifty pounds phosphoric acid and 
seventy pounds potash per acre. For the five acres 
this will mean 250 pounds nitrogen, 250 pounds 
phosphoric acid and 350 pouncfs potash. To fur- 
nish the nitrogen he can buy 1,613 pounds of nitrate 
of soda or 2,500 pounds dried blood or 1,250 pounds 
sulphate of ammonia, or a part of each. To furnish 
the phosphoric acid he can buy 1,786 pounds acid 
phosphate. Seven hundred pounds of either sul- 
phate or muriate of potash will furnish the potash. 
These materials can be easily mixed by spreading 
in alternate layers on a smooth floor and then shov- 
elling over the entire mass several times. The mix- 
ture can be further improved by passing it through 
a sand or coal screen or sieve. 
211 



212 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

By following this method of buying the raw ma- 
terials and mixing them on the farm, the farmer can 
reduce his fertilizer bill by quite a considerable 
amount and at the same time can obtain just the 
kinds and proper amounts of plant foods needed by 
his crops. 

KIND AND AMOUNT TO BUY 

The farmer should make the best use of farm 
manures and through tillage to render plant food 
available for his crops before turning to commercial 
fertilizer for additional plant food. 

If he grows leguminous crops for green manur- 
ing, for feeding stock or for cover crops, he can 
in many cases secure, chiefly through them, suffi- 
cient high priced nitrogen for the needs of his crops, 
and it is necessary only occasionally to purchase 
moderate amounts of phosphoric acid, potash and 
lime. 

For special farming and special crops it may be 
necessary to use the commercial fertilizer more 
freely. 

It is impossible to say here just what amounts or 
what kinds of fertilizer should be purchased, because 
no two farms are exactly alike as to soil, methods 
of cropping or methods of tillage. 

There are certain factors, however, which will 
serve as a general guide and which should be con- 
sidered in determining the kind and amount of fer- 
tilizer to buy. 



COMMERCIAL FERTILIZERS— CONCLUDED 2I3 

These factors are : 

The crop. 

The soil. 

The system of farming. 

THE CROP 

Crop roots differ in their powers of feeding, or 
their powers of securing plant foods. Some roots 
can use very tough plant foods, while others require 
it in the most available form. Some roots secure 
nitrogen from the air. The cowpea roots, for ex- 
ample, can take nitrogen from the air and they can 
use such tough phosphoric acid and potash that it 
seldom pays to feed them directly with fertilizers. 

A bale per acre crop of cotton requires for the 
building of roots, stems, leaves, bolls, lint and seed : 

103 pounds of Nitrogen. 
41 ** ** Phosphoric Acid, 
65 ** ** Potash. 

and yet experiment and experience have proved that 
the best fertilizer for such a crop contains the fol- 
lowing amounts of plant food : 

Nitrogen 20 pounds 

Phosphoric Acid 70 " 

Potash .^ 20 ** 

This means that cotton roots are fairly strong 
feeders of nitrogen and potash, but are weak on the 
phosphoric acid side. 

The small grains, wheat, oats, barley and rye. 



214 '^^^ FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

can use tough phosphoric acid and potash, but are 
weak on nitrogen, and as they make the greater part 
of their growth in the cool spring before nitrifica- 
tion is rapid, they are benefitted by the application 
of nitrogen, particularly in the form of nitrate, 
which is quickly available. 

Clover, peas, beans, etc., have the power of draw- 
ing nitrogen from the air, but draw from the Soil 
lime, phosphoric acid and potash. Hence the phos- 
phates, potash manures and lime are desirable for. 
these crops. 

Root and tuber crops are unable to use the in- 
soluble mineral elements in the soil, hence they re- 
quire application of all the important plant foods in 
readily available form. Nitrogen is especially bene- 
ficial to beets. Turnips are benefitted by liberal ap- 
plications of soluble phosphoric acid. White and 
sweet potatoes require an abundance of potash. 

If we are growing tender, succulent market gar- 
den crops, we need nitrogenous manures, which in- 
crease the growth of stem and foliage. 

Fruit trees are slow growing plants and do not 
need quick acting fertilizers. 

The small fruits, being more rapid in growth, re- 
quire more of the soluble materials. 

A dark, healthy green foliage indicates a good 
supply of nitrogen, while a pale yellowish green 
may indicate a need of nitrogen. 

A well developed head of grain, seed pod or fruit 
indicates liberal supplies of phosphoric acid and 
potash. 



COMMERCIAL FERTILIZERS — CONCLUDED 



THE SOIL 



215 



Soils that are poor in humus are generally in need 
of nitrogen. 

Heavy soils are generally supplied with potash 
but lack phosphoric acid. 

Sandy soils are apt to be poor in potash and 
nitrogen. 

SYSTEM OF FARMING 

A system of general or diversified farming em- 
bracing crop products and stock raising, requires 
much less artificial manuring than does a system 
which raises special crops or quick growing crops 
in rapid succession, as in the case of truck farming 
or market gardening. 

TESTING THE SOIL 

Every farmer should be more or less of an inves- 
tigator and experimenter. 

The factors mentioned previously as indicating 
the presence or absence of sufficient quantities of 
certain plant foods serve as a general guide, but 
are not absolute. The best method of determining 
what plant foods are lacking in the soil is to carry 
on some simple experiments. 

The following plan for soil testing with plant 
foods is suggestive : ' To test the soil for a possible 
need of the single pl^nt foods, a series of five plots 
may be laid off. These plots should be long and 



2l6 



THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 



narrow and may be one-twentieth, one-sixteenth, 
one-tenth, one eighth acre or larger. A plot one rod 
wide and eight rods long will contain one-twentieth 
acre. The width of the plot may be adjusted to ac- 
commodate a certain number of rows of crop and 
the length made proper to include an even fraction 
of an acre. A strip three or four feet in width 
should be left between each two plots. These strips 
are to be left unfertilized and are for the purpose of 
preventing one plot being affected by the plant food 
of another. 

The plots are all plowed, planted and cared for 
alike, the only difference in treatment being in the 
application of plant food. If the plots are one- 
twentieth acre in size, plant foods may be applied 
as follows: 



Plot i. 



Plot 2. 



Plot 3. 



Plot 4. 



Nitrate of Soda 


...Rlhfi. 


1 




Acid Phosphate.... 


..16 lbs. 




Nothing. 


. 




Muriate of Potash . . 


...8 lbs. 



COMMERCIAL FERTILIZERS-rCONCLUDED 21 7 



Plot 5. 



Lime i bushel. 



Plot 3 is a check plot for comparison. 

The measuring of the plots, weighing and appli- 
cation of the fertilizers, planting and care of the 
crops, weighing and measuring at harvest, should 
be carefully- and accurately done. 

A number of additional plots may be added if de- 
' sired to test the effect of plant foods in combina- 
tion. For instance : 



Plot 6. 



Plot 7. 



Plot 8. 



Plot 9. 



Plot 10. 



Nitrate of Soda 

Acid Phosphate . . , 


. . . 8 lbs. 
...16 " 




Nitrate of Soda 

Muriate of Potash . 


...8 lbs. 
...8 ** 




Nothing. 


• 


Muriate of Potash . 
Acid Phosphate. . . . 


. . 8 lbs. 
...16 " 




Nitrate of Soda 

Acid Phosphate.... 
Muriate of Potash. . 


. . 8 lbs. 
...16 " 
... 8 " 



2l8 THE FIRST BOpK OF FARMING 

If the amount of fertilizer is too small to dis- 
tribute evenly over the plot, mix it thoroughly with 
a few quarts of dry earth or sand to give it more 
bulk and then apply it. 

In the use of fertilizers it should always be remem- 
bered that small crops are not always due to lack of 
plant food, but may be caused by an absence of the 
other conditions necessary for root growth and de- 
velopment. The soil may not be sufficiently moist to 
properly supply the plants with water. Too much 
water may check ventilation. Poor tillage may 
check root development. Unless the physical con- 
ditions are right the possible effects of additional 
plant food in the form of fertilizers are greatly di- 
.minished. The farmer who gets the largest return 
from fertilizers is the one who gives greatest atten- 
tion to the physical properties of the soil. He makes 
use of organic matter and is very thorough in his 
methods of tillage. Every farmer should apply to 
his State Experiment Station for bulletins on the 
subject of fertilizers. 



CHAPTER XXIV 
The Rotation of Crops 

systems of cropping 

There are two methods or systems of cropping 
the soil : 

The One Crop System, or the continuous crop- 
ping of the soil year after year with one kind of 
crop. 

The Rotation of Crops or the selection of a given 
number of different crops and growing them in 
regular order. 

The purpose of this chapter is to inquire into the 
effect of these two systems of cropping : 

On the soil conditions necessary for the best 
growth and development of the crops. 

On the market value of the crops. 

On the increase of or the protection from injur- 
ious diseases and insects. 

On the distribution of labor throughout the year. 

On the caring for farm stock. 

On the providing for home supplies. 

This inquiry and the conclusion will be based on 
the following facts learned in the foregoing chap- 
ters. 

?I9 



220 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

Plant roots need for their growth and develop- 
ment (see Chapter II) : 

A mellow yet firm soil. 

A moist soil. 

A ventilated soil. 

A warm soil. 

A soil supplied with plant food. 

Decaying organic matter or humus is one of the 
most important ingredients of our soils. Because: 

It greatly influences soil texture and therefore the 
conditions necessary for root growth. 

Its presence or absence greatly influences the at- 
titude of soils toward water, the most important 
factor in plant growth. Its presence helps light, 
sandy soils to hold more water and to better pump 
water from below, while it helps close, heavy soils 
to better take in the water which falls on their sur- 
face. Its absence causes an opposite state of aflFairs. 

The presence of organic matter checks excessive 
ventilation in too open, sandy soil by filling the pores, 
and improves poor ventilation in heavy clay soils 
by making them more open. 

Humus, on account of its color, influences the 
heat absorbing powers of soils. 

The organic matter is constantly undergoing more 
or less rapid decay unless the soil be perfectly dry 
or frozen solid. Stirring and cultivating the soil 
hasten this decay. 

As the organic matter decays it adds available 
plant food to the soil, particularly nitrogen. 

As it decays, it produces carbonic acid and other 



THE ROTATION OF CROPS 221 

acids which are able to dissolve mineral plant food 
not soluble in pure water and thus render it avail- 
able to plants. 

Plants, although they require the same elements 
of plant food, take them in different amounts and 
different proportions. 

Plants differ in the extent and depth of root 
growth and therefore take food from different parts 
of the soil. Some are surface feeders while others 
feed on the deeper soil. 

Plants differ in their power to take plant food 
from the soil ; some are weak feeders, and can use 
only the most available food ; others are strong feed- 
ers, and can use tougher plant food. 

Plants vary in the amount of heat they require to 
carry on their growth and development. 



THE ONE CROP SYSTEM 

We are now ready for the question. What effect 
has the continuous cultivation, year after year, of 
the same kind of crop on the soil conditions neces- 
sary to the best growth and development of that 
crop or any other crop? Suppose we take cotton 
for example. 

How does cotton growing affect soil humus? 

During the cultivation of cotton, the organic mat- 
ter or humus of the soil decays in greater quantities 
than are added by the stalks and leaves of the crop. 
Therefore, cotton is a humus wasting crop, and the 



222 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

continuous cultivation of this crop tends to exhaust 
the supply of organic matter in the soil. 

How does cotton growing affect soil texture? 

Cotton growing wastes soil humus and therefore 
injures soil texture by making the lighter soils more 
loose and open, and the heavier soils more dense 
and compact. 

How does cotton growing affect soil water? 

By wasting humus cotton growing injures soil 
texture and so weakens the water holding and water 
pumping power of light soils and weakens the water 
absorbing power of heavy soils. Therefore the con- 
tinuous cultivation of cotton weakens the power of 
the soil over water, that most important factor in 
crop growth. 

How does cotton growing affect soil ventilation? 

Continuous cotton culture, by wasting humus, in- 
jures texture and therefore injures soil ventilation, 
causing too much ventilation in the lighter soils 
and too little in heavier soils. 

How does cotton culture affect plant food in the 
soil? 

Continuous cotton growing wastes plant food: 

Because it wastes organic matter which contains 
valuable plant food, particularly nitrogen. 

Because by wasting organic matter it increases 
the leaching of the lighter soils and the surface 
washing of the heavier soils. 

Because its roots occupy largely the upper soil and 
do not make use of much food from the lower soil. 

Because it grows only during the warm part of 



THE ROTATION OF CROPS 



223 



the year and there is no crop on the land to check 
loss of plant food from leaching and surface wash 
during the winter. 

Because it is a weak feeder of phosphoric acid, 
and can use only that which is in the most available 
form. In applying fertilizer to cotton it is neces- 
sary for best results to apply at least twice as much 
phosphoric acid as the crop can use, because it can 
use only that which is in the most available form 
and the remainder is left in the soil unused. 

Continuous cotton culture then has an injurious 
effect on all the important soil conditions necessary 
to its best growth and development, and the result 
is a diminishing yield or an increasing cost in main- 
taining fertility by the use of fertilizer. 

How does continuous cotton culture affect the 
economics of the farm? 

The injury to the soil conditions necessary to root 
growth diminishes the yield and therefore increases 
the cost of production. 

The poor soil conditions tend not only to dimin- 
ish yield but also to diminish the quality of the 
crop, which tends to lower the price received for the 
cotton. 

Keeping the land constantly in cotton tends to in- 
crease the insect enemies and the diseases of the 
crop. 

The continuous growing of cotton does not per- 
mit the constant employment of one set of laborers 
throughout the year. 

The continuous growing of cotton generally 



224 "^^^ FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

means that most of the farm goes into cotton. A 
small patch of com is planted for the stock, which 
are apt to suffer from a lack of variety in food. 

The same is true with reference to home supplies. 
Very few vegetables are grown for the table and 
there is little milk, butter or eggs for home use or 
exchange for groceries or drygoods at the store. 

Thus we see that the continuous growing of cot- 
ton on the soil, year after year, has a bad effect on 
conditions necessary to its best growth and develop- 
ment and also on the economics of the farm. 

These facts are true to a greater or less degree 
in the case of nearly all of the farm crops. The 
grain crops are often considered as humus makers 
because of the stubble turned under, but Professor 
Snyder, of Minnesota, found that five years' con- 
tinuous culture of wheat resulted in an annual loss 
of 171 pounds of nitrogen per acre, of which only 
24.5 was taken by the crop, tjie remaining 146.5 
pounds were lost through a waste or organic matter. 

THE ROTATION OF CROPS 

Now, suppose that instead of growing cotton on 
the same soil year after year, we select four crops — 
cotton, ,corn, oats and cowpea — and grow them in 
regular order, a rotation practiced in some parts of 
the South. 

We will divide the farm into three fields and num- 
ber them I, 2 and 3, and will plant these crops as 
indicated by the following diagrams : 



THE ROTATION OF CROPS 

Plan of farm. 



225 




Plan for planting. 

FiBLD I. 



Field a. 



FiBLD 3. 



t 



t 



Cotton. 


Oats, 
harvested in 

spring, 
followed by 

COWPEAS. 


Corn, 
followed by 

oats, 

planted in 

fall. 


Corn, 
followed by 

oats, 
planted in 

fall. 


Cotton. 


Oats, 
harvested in 

spring, 
followed by 

COWPEAS. 


Oats, 
harvested in 

spring, 
followed by 

CoWPEAS, 


Corn, 
followed by 

oats, 

planted in 

fall. 


Cotton. 



15 



226 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

Each of these crops occupies one-third of the 
farm each year, and yet the crop on each field 
changes each year so that no one kind of crop is 
grown on any field oftener than once in three years. 
The cotton is grown for market, the com partly to 
sell, partly to feed, the oats to feed and the cow- 
peas to plow under". All cotton and com refuse is 
plowed under. 

What effect will such a system have on the con- 
ditions necessary for plant growth? Suppose we 
follow the crops on Field i. Cotton, com, and oats 
are humus wasting crops but the pea crop which is 
grown the third year is plowed under, and largely, 
if not entirely, remedies the loss by furnishing a 
new supply of organic matter, and the ill effects 
. which we noticed would follow the loss of organic 
matter due to the continuous growing of cotton are 
avoided, soil texture is preserved, soil ventilation is 
not injured, and the power of the soil over water is 
preserved. 

What is the effect on plant food in the soil? 

Before answering this question let us see what 
amounts of plant foods these crops take out of the 
soil. 

We will assume that the soil is a good loam at 
the start and will produce : 

One bale of five hundred pounds of lint cotton 
per acre, sixty bushels shelled corn per acre, thirty 
bushels oats per acre, or two tons cowpea hay per 
acre. 



THE ROTATION OF CROPS 



527 



Such a yield of crop would take from the soil the 
following amounts of plant food per acre : 





Nitroffcn, 
pounds. 


Phosphoric 

Acid; 

pounds. 


Potash, 
pounds. 


Cotton (whole plant) 

Com (whole plant) 


103 
84 
32 
78 


41 
26 

13 
23 


65 
61 


Oats (whole plant) 


27 • 
66 


Cowpea 







Now suppose we sell the lint of the cotton, keep- 
ing all the rest of the plant, including the seed, on 
the farm and turning it back into the soil. 

Of the corn suppose we sell one-half the grain 
and keep the other half and the fodder for use on 
the farm. 

Suppose the oats be made into oat hay and be fed 
on the farm and the cowpeas be turned under. 

Assuming that the cowpeas take half their nitro- 
gen from the air. 

This will mean that in the course of three years 
we take out of the soil of each acre in the crops : 



Nitrogen. 
258 pounds. 



Phosphoric Acid. 
103 pounds. 



Potash. 
219 pounds. 



but we return to the soil in crop refuse and manure 
from the stock : 



Nitrogen. 
256 pounds. 



Phosphoric Acid. 
87 pounds. 



Potash. 
197 pounds. 



228 



THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 



This assumes that we have taken from the farm 
in products sold : 



Cotton Lint . . . . 
Com 

Animal products 

Totals 



Nitrogen. 



2 

28 
II 



41 



Phosphoric 
Acid. 



I 
12 

3 



16 



PoUsh. 



2 

10 
10 



The plant food charged to animal products is 
twenty per cent, of that in the grain and forage fed 
to the stock. 

At the end of the three years the plant food ac- 
count will balance up with : 

Nitrogen a gain of 2 pounds. 

Phosphoric Acid a loss of 16 ** 

Potash a lo^s of 22 *' 

This result is of course approximate. There will 
be some loss of nitrogen through leaching and deni- 
trification. Some of the potash and phosphoric acid 
will be converted into unavailable forms. This can 
be made good by applying to the cotton a fertilizer 
containing twenty pounds of nitrogen, sixty pounds 
of phosphoric acid and twenty pounds of potash. 

Additional nitrogen and organic matter can be 
grown to turn under by planting crimson clover 
in the cotton at the last working for a winter cover 
crop to be turned under for the com, and by plant- 
ing cowpeas or soy beans between the rows of corn. 



THE ROTATION OP CROPS 229 

If this h done it may not be necessary to add any 
nitrogen in the fertilizer, letting that supply only 
phosphoric acid and potash. 

If commercial fertilizer is used on the cotton, it 
would be a good plan to apply the manure from the 
stock to the com. 

To follow our crop on Field i through the three 
years we will have, first, cotton drawing large 
amounts of plant food from the soil and diminish- 
ing the humus of the soil. 

Growing a winter crop of crimson clover, turning 
back all the cotton refuse except the lint and oil, 
and applying the bam manure will furnish ample 
plant food for the com and replenish the organic 
matter. 

The com is a rather stronger feeder of phos- 
phoric acid than cotton and will be able to get suffi- 
cient from that left by the cotton. 

The oats will be able to get a full ration after the 
com, and the cowpeas will readily take care of them- 
selves on the score of plant food and will put the 
soil in fine condition for cotton again. 

The peas may be left on the ground to turn under 
in the spring at cotton planting time, or they may be 
plowed under in the early fall and a crimson clover 
or vetch cover crop planted, which will be plowed 
under for the cotton. 

These same facts will be true of each of the three 
fields. The humus and, therefore, texture will be 
taken care of; ventilation, soil temperature and plant 
food will be controlled to advantage. 



230 THE FIRST BCK)K OF FARMING 

Each of the crops will be represented on the farm 
each year and the yields of each crop will be better 
than if grown continuously alone. The quality and 
therefore the market value will be greater. Insects 
and disease will be easier kept in control, and stock 
will be more economically furnished with a variety 
of foods. 

BENEFITS DERIVED FROM ROTATION OF CROPS 

• Rotation of crops economizes the natural plant 
food of the soil and also that which is applied in 
the form of manure and fertilizer. This is because : 

Crops take food from the soil in different amounts 
and different proportions. 

Crops differ in their feeding powers. 

Crops differ in the extent and depth to which 
they send their roots into the soil in search of food 
and water. 

Crops differ in the time of year at which they 
make their best growths. 

Rotation helps to maintain or improve the texture 
of the soil because the amount of humus in the soil 
is maintained or increased by turning under green 
manure and cover crops which should occur in 
every well-planned rotation. 

Rotation helps to maintain or increase the plant 
food in the surface soil. When crops like cowpeas 
or clover which take mineral food from the sub- 
soil and nitrogen from the air, are plowed under, 
they give up the plant food in their leaves, stems 



THE ROTATION OF CROPS 23 I 

and upper roots to the surface soil, and thus help to 
maintain or increase fertility. 

Rotation tends to protect crops from injurious in- 
sects and diseases. If one kind of crop is grown 
continuously on one piece of land the soil becomes 
infested with the insects and diseases which injure 
that particular crop. If the crop is changed, the 
insects and diseases find difficulty in adapting them- 
selves to the change and consequently diminish in 
numbers. 

Rotation helps to keep the soil free from weeds. 
" If the same kind of crop were grown year after 
year on the same field, the weeds which grow most 
readily along with that crop would soon take pos- 
session of the soil." For example, chick weed, dock, 
thistle, weeds peculiar to grain and grain crops tend 
to increase if the land is long occupied by these 
crops. 

Rotation helps tlie farmer to make a more even 
distribution of labor throughout the year. This is 
because crops differ as to the time of year at which 
they are planted and harvested. 

Rotation of crops enables the farmer to provide 
for his stock more economically. Live stock fares 
better on a variety of food, which is more cheaply 
secured'by a system of rotation than otherwise. 

THE TYPICAL ROTATION 

A typical rotation for general farming should 
contain at least : 



232 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

One money crop which is necessarily an exhaus- 
tive crop. 

One manurial crop which is a soil enricher. 

One feeding crop which diminishes fertility only 
a little. 

One cleansing crop, a hoed or cultivated crop. 

CONDITIONS WHICH MODIFY THE. ROTATION 

There are certain conditions which tend to modify 
the rotation or to influence the farmer in his choice 
of crops. They are as follows : 

First of all the climate will set a limit on the 
number and varieties of crops from which a choice 
can be made for a given locality. 

The kind of farming which he chooses to carry 
on, whether stock raising, grain farming, truck 
farming, or a combination of two or more of these, 
or others. 

Kind of soil. Certain soils are best adapted to 
particular crops. For example, heavy soils are best 
suited to wheat, grass, clover, cabbages, etc. Light, 
sandy soils to early truck, certain grades of to- 
bacco, etc. 

The demand for crops and their market value. 

Facilities for getting crops to market, good or 
bad country roads, railroads and water transpgrta- 
tion. 

The state of the land with respect to weeds, in- 
sect pests and plant diseases. 



THE ROTATION OF CROPS 233 



GENERAL RULES 



A few general rules may be made use of in ar- 
ranging the order of the crops in the rotation though 
they cannot always be strictly followed. 

Crops that require the elements of plant food in 
the same proportion should not follow each other. 

Deep-rooted crops should alternate with shallow- 
rooted crops. 

Humus makers should alternate with humus 
wasters. 

Every well arranged rotation should have at least 
one crop grown for its manurial effect on the soil, 
as a crop of cowpeas, or one of clover, to be turned 
under. 

The objection often made to this last rule is that, 
aside from tlie increase in fertility, there is no direct 
return for the time, labor and seed, and the land 
brings no crop for a year. It is not necessary to 
use the entire crop for green manuring — ^a part of 
it may be used for hay or for pasture with little loss 
of the manurial value of the crop, provided the 
manure from that part of the crop taken off is re- 
turned and the part of the crop not removed is 
turned under. 



LENGTH OF THE ROTATION 

The length of the rotation may vary from a two- 
course or. two crop rotation to one of several courses. 



234 'T^^ FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

Crimson clover may be alternated with com, both 
crops being grown within a year. 

A three-course rotation, popular in some parts of 
the country, is wheat, clover, and potatoes ; potatoes 
being the money crop and cleansing crop, wheat a 
secondary money crop or feeding crop, and clover 
the manurial and feeding crop. 

A popular four-course rotation is com, potatoes 
or truck, small grain, clover ; the potatoes being the 
chief money crop, com the feeding crop, the small 
grain the secondary money or feeding crop, and 
clover the manurial and feeding crop. 

On many New England farms near towns, hay 
and straw are the chief money crops. Here the 
rotation is grass two or more years, then a cleans- 
ing crop and a grain crop. A Canadian rotation is 
wheat, hay, pasture, oats, peas. A rotation for the 
South might be com, crimson clover, cotton, crim- 
son clover; this rotation covering a period of two 
years. A South Carolina rotation is oats, peas, cot- 
ton, corn — a, three-year rotation. It might be im- 
proved as follows: Oats, peas, crimson clover, 
cotton, crimson clover, com. 



CHAPTER XXV 

Farm Drainage 

Some farm lands contain so much water that the 
conditions of fertility are interfered with and there- 
fore the crop producing power of these lands is 
lowered. 

HOW SURPLUS WATER AFFECTS FERTILITY 

This surplus water diminishes fertility by reduc- 
ing the area of film water in the soil. 
It checks soil ventilation. 
It tends to keep the soil cold. 
It dilutes plant food in the soil. 
It interferes with proper tillage. 

INDICATIONS OF A NEED OF DRAINAGE 

The above-mentioned state of affairs occurs some- 
times in fields at the foot of hills, or on sloping up- 
lands which receive spring water or seepage water 
from higher lands. Some fields are underlaid by a 
close, compact subsoil which so checks percolation 
that the surface soil is too wet for tillage operations 
the greater part of the year. In such cases : 

A need of drainage is generally indicated by the 

235 



236 "rtlE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

presence of more or less free water standing on the 
surface. 

In some lands the surface water does not appear 
as free water standing on the surface. In such 
cases : 

A need of drainage is indicated by the curling 
and wilting of the leaves of corn and other crops 
during dry, hot weather. This curling and wilting 
is due to the fact that during the early growth of 
the crop free water stands so high in the soil that 
the crop roots are confined to a shallow layer of 
soil. When dry, hot weather comes, the free water 
recedes, the upper soil dries out, and the roots can- 
not get sufficient water to supply the demands of 
transpiration, hence the curling and wilting of the 
leaves. 

If drains are placed in this soil, the free water 
will be kept at a lower level in the spring and the 
plant roots will develop deeper in the soil, where 
there will be constant supply of film water during 
the dryer and warmer summer weather. 

The wiry and spindling growth of grass and grain 
crops may indicate too much water. 

The growth of moss on the surface of the ground 
and the cracking of the soil in dry weather are also 
indications of too much water. 

DRAINS 

How can we get rid of this surplus free water? 
We can make passageways through the soil to a 



FARM DRAINAGE 23^ 

lower level and then let gravity pull the water 
through them to lower ground below. These pas- 
siageways are called drains. 

Drains may be classed as : 

Surface drains which are shallow, open channels 
made in the soil with a plow, hoe or other tool, to 
carry off surface water. They are temporary and 
need frequent renewing. 

Open-ditch drains are deeper, more permanent 
water passageways around or across the fields. 

Surface and open-ditch drains take only surface 
water. They also carry off surface soil and ma- 
nures washed into them. They frequently become 
choked or stopped by trash and soil, and are in the 
way of cultivation and harvesting operations. 

Covered drains, under drains or blind ditches are 
water passageways made of brush, poles, stones, 
tiles, etc. (Figs. 80-81), placed in the bottoms of 
ditches and then covered with soil. 

INFLUENCE OF COVERED OR UNDER DRAINS ON 
FERTILITY 

Influence on soil water. 

Covered or under drains take not only surface 
water, but also remove free water from the soil be- 
neath down to nearly the level of the bottom of the 
drains, and thus increase the area of film water. 
Removing the free water enables the soil to absorb 
more readily rain water falling on the surface and 
therefore checks surface wash and the gullying of 
fields. 



238 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

Influence on soil ventilation. 

Lowering the free water allows a deeper pene- 
tration of air and, therefore, a deeper root develop- 
ment and enables crops to better resist dry periods. 

Influence on soil temperature. 

Lowering the free water in the soil influences soil 
temperature : 

By diminishing the amount of water to be heated. 

By checking evaporation. 

By letting warm showers sink down into the soil. 

By increasing ventilation and therefore permit- 
ting the circulation of warm air in the soil. 

The cropping season is lengthened by causing the 
soil to be warmer and drier earlier in the spring and 
later in the fall. 

Influence on plant food in the soil, . 

Covered or under drains check losses of plant 
food that occur with surface and open ditch drains. 
They render available more plant food, for lowering 
free water and increasing ventilation : 

Deepen the feeding area of the roots. 

Aid the process of nitrification. 

Aid chemical changes which make plant food 
available. 

Check denitrification. 

LOCATION OF DRAINS 

As gravity is the force that is to take the surplus 
water from the soil, the outlet of the drainage sys- 
tem should be at the lowest part of the area to be 
drained. 







FIG. 83. — CROSS-SECTIONS OF STONE-DRAINS. 





A. B, 

— FIG. 84. 

A. Cross-section of a pole-drain. B. Cross-section of a 
tile-drain. 



^^^^^^■^^■^^^^H 


■■■T|~pH 


^^^HI^S^Fk ^H 


B t H HV 


HIti' - 1 


S]f ^ 


^^^^HH^plfBx 1- ' ~& 


JSIm^^RI^^^^^L 



FIG. 85. — A COLLECTION OF DRAINAGE TOOLS. 



FIG. S6. 



A represents a poorly laid tile-drain. It is poorly graded, 
and has partly filled with soil. It has lost more than half its 
water-carrying capacity. B was properly graded, and has 
kept free from sediment. 



FARM DRAINAGE 239 

The main drains should be located in the lowest 
parts of the fields, indicated by courses taken by 
water after a rain or by small streams running 
through the farm. 

The lateral drains, if surface or open ditch drains, 
should run across the slopes ; if under drains, they 
should run up and down the slopes. 

Grade or slope of the drain. 

The grade of the drain should be sufficient to 
cause a flow of the water. In the case of open 
ditches it should not be steep enough to cause too 
rapid a current and a consequent serious washing 
of the banks of the ditch. Large, deep ditches will 
carry water with a grade of one inch to a hundred 
feet. 

Tile drains. 

Covered or under drains are made of brush, poles, 
planks, stones, tiles, etc. (Figs. 83-84). Where tiles 
can be obtained at reasonable prices they are con- 
sidered best. Tiles are made of clay and are burnt 
like brick. They are more lasting than wood and 
are easier and cheaper to lay than stone, unless the 
stone must be gotten rid of. 

The most approved form of drain tile is the round 
or circular form. These are made in sizes ranging 
from two and one-half to six and eight inches in 
diameter, and in pieces one foot in length. 

The size used depends on the length of the drain, 
the amount of water to carry, the frequency of 
heavy rainfalls and the character of the soil. 

The distance apart varies from twenty-five feet in 



240 THE FIRST BOOK OF FARMING 

heavy soils to over two hundred feet in light soilsi 
The usual depth is about three feet, though the 
farther apart the deeper they are put. 

A lateral tile drain should enter a main at an 
acute angle to prevent too great a check in the cur- 
rent. 

In putting in a drainage system the first thing to 
be done is to make a plan of the ground and deter- 
mine the slope of the land and the grade of the 
drain. The ditches are then staked out and the dig- 
ging proceeds. In digging the ditches plows are 
sometimes used to throw out the top soil, then the 
work is finished with spades and shovels. 

Professional ditchers use special tools and they 
take out only sufficient earth to make room for the 
tiles (Fig. 85). The tiles are then laid end to end, 
the joints covered with a piece of sod, some grass, 
straw, paper or clay, to prevent loose soil sifting in. 
As the tiles are laid, enough soil is placed on them 
to hold them in place imtil the ditch is filled. 

In laying the tiles an even grade should be main- 
tained (Fig. 86). A lessening of the grade checks 
the current of water and tends to cause a stoppage 
of the drain. 

The water gets into the drain through the joints 
where the tiles come together. 

The outlet of a tile drain should be protected by 
brick work or should be of glazed tile such as the 
so-called terra-cotta tile, to prevent injury by frost. 

The mouth of the drain should be protected by a 
screen of wire to prevent the entrance of rats and 
other small animals. 



GLOSSARY 

Addy a chemical name given to many sour substances. 

Albumen, a nitrogenous organic compound. 

Albuminoid, a nitrogenous substance resembling albumen. 

Ammonia, a gas containing nitrogen produced by the de- 
cay of organic matter. 

Annual, a plant that lives only one year; corn and sun- 
flower are examples. 

Anther, the part of a stamen that bears the pollen. 

Available, that which can be used. 

Bacteria, very small plants, so small that they cannot be 
seen without the aid of a powerful microscope. They are 
sometimes called "germs." Some of them are beneficial, 
some do great harm and some produce disease. 

Biennial, a plant that lives two years, usually producing 
seeds the second year. 

Bordeaux mixture, a mixture of copper sulphate, lime 
and water used to prevent plant diseases. It was invented 
in Bordeaux, France. 

Bud, an undeveloped branch. 

Calyx, the outermost part of a flower. 

Cambium, the active growing layer between the bark 
and the wood of a tree. 

Capillary, Hair-like. A name given to very small 
spaces through which water flows by the force of capil- 
lary attraction. 

Carbohydrate, an organic substance made of oxygen, 
hydrogen and carbon, but containing no nitrogen ; cellulose 
or woody fibre, sugar, starch are examples. 

Carbon, a chemical element. Charcoal is nearly pure 
carbon. 

i6 241 



242 GLOSSARY 

Carbonic add gas, a gas consisting of cati)on and oxy- 
gen. It is produced from the lungs of animals, and by the 
decay or burning of organic matter. 

Catch crop, a crop growing during the interval between 
regular crops. 

Cereal, a name given to the grain crops that are used for 
food. 

Chlorophyll the green matter in plants. 

Commercial iertilizersy materials containing plant food 
which are bought and sold in the markets to improve the 
soil. 

Compost, a mixture of decaying organic matter used to 
enrich the soil. 

Cross pollination, the pollination of a flower by pollen 
brought from some other flower. 

Cover crop, a crop to cover the soil during the interval 
between regular corps. 

Cultivator, a farm implement used to loosen the surface 
of the soil and to kill weeds after a crop has been planted. 

Cutting, a part of a plant placed in moist soil, water or 
other medium with the object of its producing roots and 
making a new plant. 

Dormant, said of plants when they are resting or in- 
active. Most plants are dormant during the winter season. 

Drainage, the method by which surplus water is removed 
from the land. 

Element, a substance that cannot be divided into simpler 
substances. 

Fermentation^ the process by which organic substances 
are broken down or changed and new substances formed. 

Fertility, that state or condition of the soil which en- 
ables it to produce crops. 

Fibre, long thread-like structure. 

Flocculate, to make crumbly. 

Free water, standing water or water which flows under 
the influence of gravity. 

Function, the particular action of any part of an organ- 
ism. 



GLOSSARY 243 

Furrow, the trench left by the plow. 

Furrow slice, the strip of earth which is turned by the 
plow. 

Germinate, to sprout. 

Grafting, the process of inserting a cion or bud in a 
stock plant. 

Green manure crops, crops intended to be plowed under 
to improve the soil. 

Harrow, an implement used to pulverize the surface of 
the soil. 

Heavy soils, soils that are hard to work; stiff, cloddy 
soils. 

Horticulture, that branch of agriculture which deals with 
the growing of fruits, vegetables, flowers and ornamental 
plants. 

Humus, partially decayed animal and vegetable matter 
in the soil. 

Hydrogen, a gaseous, chemical element, one of the con- 
stituents of water. 

Inter-tillage, tillage between plants. 

Irrigation, the practice of supplying plants with water by 
artificial means. 

Eainite, a potash salt used in making fertilizer. 

Kernel, a single seed or grain. 

Leaching, passing through and going off in drainage 
water. 

Legume, a plant belonging to the bean, pea and clover 
family. 

Light soils, soils which are loose and open and easy to 
work. 

Loam, a mixture of sand, clay and organic matter. 

Mould board, the curved part of the plow which turns 
the furrow slice. 

. Mulch, a covering on the soil. It may be of straw, leaves, 
pulverized soil or other material. 

Nectar, a sweet substance in flowers from which bees 
make honey. 

Nitrate, a soluble form of nitrogen. 



244 GLOSSARY 

Nitrification, the changing of nitrogen into a nitrate. 

Nitrogen, a gas forming four-fifths of the air. Nitrogen 
is a very necessary food of plants. 

Organic matter, substances produced by the growth of 
plants and animals. 

Osmose, the movement of fluids through membranes or 
thin partitions. 

Oxygen, a gas which forms one-fifth of the air. Its pres- 
ence is necessary to the life of all green plants and all 
animals. 

Ovary, the part of the pistil that bears the developing 
seeds. 

Ovale, an immature seed in the ovary. 

Perennial, living through several years. 

Phosphoric acid, an important plant food found in phos- 
phates. 

Pistil, the part of the flower which produces seeds. 

Propagate, to increase in number. 

Pollen, the powdery substance produced by stamens. 

Pollination, the transfer of pollen from stamens to pistils. 

Potash, an important plant food. 

Pruning, removing parts of a plant for the good of what 
remains. 

Retentive, holding, retaining, said of soil which holds 
water. 

Reverted, said of phosphoric acid in the process of be- 
coming insoluble. 

Rotation of crops, a change of crops in regular order. 

Sap, the juice or liquid contents of plants. 

Seed bed, the earth in which seeds are sown. 

Seedling, a young plant just from the seed. Also a plant 
raised from a seed in distinction from one produced from 
a graft or a cutting. 

Sepal, one of the parts of the calyx. 

Slip, a cutting placed in water or moist soil or other sub- 
stance to produce roots and form a new plant. 

Soil, that part of the earth's crust into which plants send 
their roots for food and water. 



GLOSSARY 245 

Stamen, that part of a flower which bears the pollen. 

Stigma, the part of the pistil which receives the pollen. 

Stomata, breathing pores in plants. 

Subsoil, that part of the soil which lies beneath the soil 
that is worked with the tillage tools. 

Sap root, a main root that runs straight down into the 
soil. 

Tillage, stirring the soil. 

Transpiration, the giving off of water from plants. 

Tubercle, a small nodular growth on the roots of plants. 

Under drainage, drainage from below. 

Vitality of seeds, the ability of seeds to grow. 



INDEX 



Acid phosphates, 196. 
Adobe soils, 30. 
After-cultivation, 158, 164. 
benefits from, 164. 
flat, 169. 

frequency of, 167. 
saves water, 164. 
shallow, 15, 167, 169. 
time for, 166. 
tools for, 167. 
Agencies active in making 

soils, 32. 
Agents, with which farmer 
works, 5. 
most important, 6. 
Agriculture, foundation facts 

and principles of, 22. 
Air, and the farmer, 5. 
in relation to germination, 

72. 
necessary for root growth, 

20. 
work of, in making soils. 

Albuminoids in plants, 64, 

66. 
Alfalfa or lucem, 68. 

roots, 13. 

soils, 29. 
Ammonia in fertilizers, 204, 
205. 

in barn manures, 175. 

lost by fermentation, 175. 

sulphate of, 194. 
Analysis of plants, 163-166. 

of fertilizers, 203. 
Animals, 5. 

and the farmer, 5. 

dependent on plants, 6. 

work of, in making soils, 
Z1' 



Annual plants, 125. 

Anthers, 129. 

Aphis, 116. 

Apple, flower of, 129, 130. 

Ash in plants, 65, 66. 

Ashes, a source of potash, 

199. 
cotton hull, 199. 



Bacteria, 68, 143. 

and the farmer, 5, 144. 

denitrifying, 144. 

in manures, 174. 

in the roots of legumes, 
68. 

in the soil, 68, 143. 

nitrifying, 144. 

nitrogen-fixing, 144. 
Bare fallow, 100. 

when advisable, 100. 
Bam manures, 171. 

application of, 177. 

condition of, 179. 

effect of on soil texture, 
172. 

loss of value of, 173. 

meaning of term, 173. 
Beet, 6. 
Beets, 4. 

nitrogen for, 214. 
Biological properties of a 

fertile soil, 143. 
Biology, 143. 
Blood, dried, 194. 

as a fertilizer, 194. 

nitrogen in, 194. 
Bokhara clover, 190. 
Bone, dissolved, 197. 

dust, 197. 

ground, 197, 



247 



248 



INDEX 



Bone fertilizers, 197. 

meal, 197. 

raw, 197. 

steamed, 197. 
Bone black, 197. 

dissolved, 19^ 
Bones, 195, 197. 
Bordeaux mixture, 118. 
Breaking out the middles, 

97. 

Bnck, 30. 

Brush harrow, 102, 105. 

Buds, 120. 

Buildings, 5. 
and the farmer, 5. 

Bureau of soils. United 
States, 28. 
Department of Agricul- 
ture, 28. 

Buttercup, flower of, 129, 
130. 

Cabbage; fertilizer for, 211. 

soil, 28, 161. 

transplanting, 87, 88. 

worm, 117. 
Cabbages, 4. 
Calcium in plants, 66, 67. 

in soils, 68. 
Calyx, 125^. 

function of, 132. 
Cambium, 126. 
Canadian field jpea, i8p. 
Canteloupe soil, 28. 
Capillary force, 49. 

meaning of term, 49. 

tubes, 49. 

water, 153. 
Carbon in plants, 66. 
Carbonic acid in soil, 37. 
Carrots, 4, 6. 
Cauliflower soil, 28. 
Celery, 4. 

Cellulose in plants, 63, 66. 
Chain harrow, 102, 105. 
Chemical properties of a 
fertile soil, 147. 



Cherry flower, 129, 130. 
Chlorophyl in leaves, 113. 
Classification of soils, 26. 
Clay, 27, 38. 

and lime, 42. 

loams, 29. 

power to absorb water, 
41, 42. 

relation to water, 25, 41, 
43 

soils, 29. 

soils injured by working 
when wet, 45. 

to improve texture of, 42. 

water-holding power, 44. 
Clevis, 93. 

Climbing plants, 121. 
Clover, 68. 

Bokhara, 190. 

crimson, 189. 

mammoth, 189. 

red, 188. 
Qovers, as green manure- 
crops, 188. 

as nitrogen gatherers, 184. 

nodules on roots of, 184. 
Commercial fertilizers, 171, 
192. 

amount to buy, 212. 

home mixing, 211. 

kind to buy, 212. 

raw materials, 192. 

(See also Fertilizers.) 
Composts, 171, 181. 
Conditions necessary for 

root growth, 20. 
Com, a humus waster, 226. 

depth of root growth of, 

13. 
flower of, 132. 
germination of, 78, 79. 
in rotation, 226, 229, 234. 
plant, 6. • 
pollination of, 133. 
rapid growth of roots of, 

13. 
roots cut by plow, 14. 



INDEX 



249 



Corn, soils, 28, 29, 30, 161. , 

structure of seed, 78. 

water used by, 40. 
Corolla, 129. 

function of, 132. 
Cotton, 5, 161. 

a humus waster, 221. 

in rotation, 225-229. 

plant, 6. 

plant food removed by, 
227. 

Sea Island, 161. 

soils, 28, 29, 161. 

upland, 161. 
Cotton hull ashes, 199. 
Cotton-seed meal, 194. 
Cotyledons, TJ. 

use of, 79. 
Coulter of plow, 94. 
Coulter-toothed harrow, 102, 

104. 
Cow manure, 178. 

losses by exposure, 178. 
Cowpeas, 68, 186. 

for green manuring, 186. 

plant food in, 187. 

root growth of, 12. 

soils for, 187. 
Cropping and soil water, 

159, 160. 
Crops, cleansing, 232. 

feeding, 232. 

in rotation, 219. 

manurial, 232. 

money, 232. 
Cucumber flower, 133. 
Cultivation. 

(See After-cultivation.) 

Denitrification, 147. 

conditions favoring, 147. 
Denitrifying germs, 144, 147. 
Draft ring of plow, 93. 
Draining, need of, 235. 
Drains, 158-239. 

and capillary water, 237. 

covered, 237. 



Drains, effect on film water, 

effect on plant food, 238. 
effect on soil temperature, 

238. 
effect on soil water, 237. 
grade of, 239. 
lateral, 239. 
location of, 238. 
main, 239. 
open ditch, 237. 
surface, 237. 
tile, 239. 
Dried blood, 194. 

as a fertilizer, 194. 
. nitrogen in, 194. 

Early crops^ soils for, 27, 28. 
Egg experiments to show 

osmose, 18, 19. 
Egg plant, soil for, 28. 
Elements in plants, 66. 
Elm tree leaf beetle, 117. 
Endosperm, 78. 

use of, 79. 
Epicotyl, 78. 
Essential organs of flowers, 

131. . 
Evaporation, loss of water 
by, 54. 

loss of heat by, 59. 
Excursion, 

to examine soils, 24. 

to see plow cutting roots, 

: 14. 

! to study roots, 11. 

to study leaves, 108. 
I to study stems, 120. 

to visit farm, 4. 
Experiment to show, 
air necessary for germina- 
tion, 73. 
amount of transpiration, 

no. 
capillarity, 49. 
capacity of soils for film 
water, 51. 



250 



INDEX 



Experiment to show, 
checking loss of water by 

evaporation, 55. 
chlorophyl necessary for 

starch making, 113. 
effect of soil mulch, 55. 
depth of planting seeds, 

effect of lime on clay soil, 
42. 

effect of working soil 
when wet, 26, 45. 

exclusion of oxygen by 
leaf, 113. 

film water, 50. 

growth in length of roots, 
16. 

heat necessary for germi- 
nation, 72i' 

how food and water get 
into the root, 18, 19. 

how soils are warmed, 58. 

how soils lose heat, 59. 

importance of roots, 7. 

moisture necessary for 
germination, 71. 

no starch formed in dark, 
112. 

osmose, 18, 19. 

plants contain albumi- 
noids, 64. 

plants contain ashes, 65. 

plants contain cellulose, 

63. 
plants contain gum, 64. 
plants contain oil, 64. 
plants contain starch, 64. 
plants contain sugar, 64. 
plants contain water, 65. 
power of soils to absorb 

rain, 40. 
power of soils to hold 

water, 44, 45. 
power of soils to pump 

water, 43. 
roots absorb moisture, 9. 
roots take food from soil, 9. 



Experiment to show, 
roots produce new plants, 

10. 
roots need air, 21. 
soil characteristics, 24, 25. 
soil temperature, 57, 60. 
starch in leaf, in. 
stems carry sap, 122. 
stems store food, 124. 
transpiration, the fact, 

109. 
transpiration, amount, in. 
use of cotyledons, 79. 
what becomes of water 

taken by roots, 39. 



Fallow, bare, 100. 
Fall plowing, 99. 
Families of plants, 86. 
Farm drainage, 235. 
Farm manures, 171, 183. 

classification of, 171. 

importance of, 172. 
Farmer deals with agents, 

laws and forces, 5. 
Fat in plants, 64. 
Fermentation of manures, 



?74. 
tile 



Fertile soil, a, 141. 
biological properties of, 

142, 143. 
chemical properties of, 142, 

147.. 
most important properties 

of, 150. 
physical properties of, 142. 
Fertility of the soil, 150. 
economizing the, 150. 
maintaining the, 150. 
Fertilizers, commercial, 68, 

192. 
analysis of, 203. 
classification of, 171. 
home mixing, 211. 
how to know what kind is 

needed, 212. 



INDEX 



251 



Fertilizers, commercial, 

importance of thorough 
mixing with the soil, 15. 

manufactured, 202. 

many brands, 202. 

mixed, 202. 

raw materials, 192. 

sources of lime, 193, 200. 

sources of nitrogen, 193. 

sources of phosphoric 
acid, 193, 195. 

sources of potash, 193, 
199. 

use of by farmer, 172, 192. 

value of plant food in, 205. 
Filament of stamen, 129. 
Film water, 50. 
Fish scrap as a fertilizer. 

Flower, 

of apple, 129, 130. 

of buttercup, 129, 130. 

calyx, 129. 

of cherry, 129, 130. 

corolla, 129. 

of cucumber, 133. 

functions of parts of, 130. 

of honeysuckle, 129. 

of melon, 133. 

parts of, 129. 

of peach, 129, 13a 

petals, 129. 

of petunia, 129. 

pistil, 130. 

pollen, 130. 

of potato, 129. 

sepals, 129. 

stamen, 129. 

of squash, 133. . 

of tomato, 129. 

of wild mustard, 129, 130. 
Flowers, 8, 128. 

essential parts of, 131. 

functions of, 130. 
Food of plants, 63. 
Forces of nature and the 
farmer, 5. 



Forest soils, 29. 
Foundation facts and prin- 
ciples of agriculture, 22. 
Free water in the soil, 48, 

. ?53. 

mjurious to roots, 153. 

source of capillary and 
film water, 153. 
Fresno sand, 28. 
Fruit, 8, 136. 
Fruit soils, 29. 
Fruits, 27. 
Furrow slice, 96. 



Gas lime, 201. 
Geranium, 6. 
Germinating seeds, 

need air, 72- 

need heat, 73. 

need water, 71. 
Germs, 143. 

denitrifying, 144, 147. 

nitrifying, 144, 145. 

nitrogen fixing, 144. 
Goosefoot family, 86. 
Gourd family, 86. 
Grafting, 136. 
Grain crops humus wasters, 

224. 
Grain soils, 28. 
Grass, 5. 

family, 86. 

soils, 28, 29, 30, 162. 
Gravel, 26. 
Gravelly loams, 29. 
Green-crop manures, 171, 
183. 

benefits from, 185. 

best plants for, 185. 
Green manure-crops, 186. 

clovers as, 188. 

cowpeas as, 186. 

legumes as, 186. 

non-leguminous, 191. 

soy-bean as, 189. 

time for growing, 186. 



252 



INDEX 



Gum in plants, 64, 66. 
Gypsum, 201. 



Habit of growth of roots, 

II. 
Handles of plow, 93. 
Harrowing, loi, 158. 

objects of, loi. 

time for, loi. 
Harrows, 4, 102. 

brush, 102, 105. 

chain, 102, 105. 

coulter-toothed, 102, 104. 

plank, 102, 105. 

rolling cutter, 102, 103. 

spike-toothed, 102, 104. 

sprinp^-toothed, 102, 103. 
Hay soils, 29, 30. 
Heat and the farmer, 5. 
Heat necessary for germina- 
tion, 7Z' 
Hilling the crop, 169. 
Hilum, 77. 

Hoeing and soil water, 158. 
Hoes, 4. 
Horn shavings as fertilizer, 

19s. 
Horse manure, 176. 

losses when piled, 176. 
House plants, watering of, 

51. 
How the bean gets up, 78. 
How the corn gets up, 79. 
Humus, 27, 38. 
influence on soil texture, 

62. 
nitrogen in, 67. 
a source of nitrogen, 67. 
water-absorbing power of, 

41. 
water-holding power of, 

water-pumpmg power of, 

43. 
Hydrogen in plants, 66. 
Hypocotyl, 78. 



Ice, work of, in making 

soils, 35. 
Insects, chewing, 117. 

how to combat, 116, 117. 

injure leaves, 116. 

sucking, 116. 
Insect pollination, 131. 
Inter-tillage, 164. 
Iodine, test for starch, 64. 
Iron in plants, 66. 



Jointer of plow, 95. 
value as a pulverizer, 95. 



Kainite, 199. 

Knowledge of flowers, value 
of, 134. 



Land plaster, 200. 
Laws of nature, 5. 
Leaf work, conditions neces- 
sary for, 114. 
interfered with, 115, 118. 
Leather as a fertilizer, 195. 
Leaves, 8, 108. 
digest food, 114. 
facts about, 108. 
. functions of, 109. 
j manufacture starch, 112. 
1 transpire water, no. 
^ Legume family, 8(5. 
Legumes, 
deflnition of, 68. 
nitrogen fixers, 68, 186, 

144. 
value as green manure 
plants, 144, 185. 
Leguminous plants, 68. 
Light necessary for leaf 

work, 114. 
Lily family, 86. 
Lime, 200. 
amount to use, 20a 
effect on sand, 20a 



INDEX 



253 



Lime, effect on clay, 200. 

in soils, 149. 

its action on soils, 149, 
200. 

sets free potash, 149. 

sources of, 171, 200. 
Lime stone soluble in water, 

31. 
Loam, 28. 
Loamy soils, 28. 
London purple, 117. 
Loss of soil water, 53, 155. 
Lucern, 13. 
roots, 13. 

Magnesium in plants, 66. 
Maintenance of fertility, 

150. 
Materials composing soils, 

26. 
Mallow family, 86. 
Manures, bam, 171, 173. 

application of, 177. 

care of, 173. 

checking losses from, 176. 

effect on soil texture, 172. 

effect on soil water, 159. 

functions of, 171. 

losses from leaching, 173. 

losses from heating, 174. 
Many things the farmer 

deals with, 5. 
Marigold, 6. 
Marl, 201. 
Melon flower, 133. 
Miami sand, 28. 
Microscopic organisms, 5. 
Mixed fertilizers, 202. 

inflating the guarantee, 
204. 

low grade, 204, 207. 

many brands, 202. 

valuation of, 205. 
Morning-glory, 129. 
Most important factor in 
the raising of crops, 151. 
Mould board of plow, 94. 



Muck, swamp, 30. 
Mulch, soil, 56. 

how made, 56. 

to save water, 56. 
Muriate of potash, 199. 
Mustard, family, 86. 

flower, 129, 130. 
Muskmelon soils, 161. 

Night shade family, 86. 
Nitrates, what they are, 146. 

availability of, 146, 193. 

solubility of, 146. 
Nitrate of soda, 193. 

nitrogen, 193. 
Nitric acid in soil, 146. 
Nitrification, 146. 

aided by plowing, 146. 

aided by lime, 146. 

conditions favorable to, 
146. 
Nitrifying germs, 144, 145. 
Nitrogen, 66. 

added to the soil by le- 
gumes, 68. 

grown on the farm, 68. 

in humus, 167. 

in soils, 67, 148. 

in plants, 66, 67, 

in fertilizers, 192. 

loss of, 67. 

sources of, 171. 
Nitrogen-fixing germs, 144. 
Non-leguminous green ma- 
nure-crops, 191. 
Norfolk sand, 28. 

Oats, soil for, 29. 
Object of this book, 3. 
Odorless phosphate, 198. 
Oil in plants, 64, 66. 
One-crop system, 221. 

effect on fertility, 221. 
Onion, 6. 
Organic matter, 

in soils, 32, 62, 220. 

value of, 61. 



254 



INDEX 



Osmose, 18. 
Ovary of flower, 130. 
Ovules, 130. 
Oxygen in plants, 66. 

Paris green to destroy 

chewing insects, 117. 
Parsley family, 86. 
Parsnip root, (Jepth of 

growth, 13. 
Parsnips, 4. 
Pasture, soils for, 30. 
Pea family, 86. 

soils, 28. 
Peach borer, 127. 

flower, 130. 
Peanuts, 5. 
Peat, 30. 

Peppers, soil for, 28. 
Percolation of water, 41. 
Petals, 129. 
Petunia, 129. 
Pigweeds, 5, 6. 
Pistil, 130. 

function of, 131. 
Phosphate, odorless, 198. 

rock, 195. 

slag, 195, 198. 
Phosphoric acid, 195. 

available, 195, 196. 

in fertilizers, 195. 

in soil. 148. 

insoluble, 195, 196. 

reverted, 196. 

soluble, 196. 

sources of, 171. 
Phosphorus in plants, 66,67. 

in soils, 68. 
Plank harrow, 102, 105. 
Plant, analysis of, 63. 

most important part of to 

• plant itself, 7. 

most important part of to 
plant grower, 7. 
Plant diseases, 118. 
Plant food, 63. 

and the farmer, 5. 



Plant food, in soil, 63. 

in fertilizers, 68, 192, 205. 

what it is, 63, 69. 
Planting, 

corn, 84. 

grass seed, 84. 

grain seed, 84. 

method of, 83. 

seeds, 81. 

vegetable seeds, 84. 
Plants, S. 

and the farmer, 5. 

conditions for growth, 6. 

composition of food of, 63. 

for study, 6. 

living, growing things, 6. 

parts of, 6. 

resemble one another, 6. 

why raised, 6. 

work of in making soils, 
36. 
Plow beam, 93. 

coulter, 94. 

characteristics of, 95. 

clevis, 93. 

cutting roots, 15. 

draft ring, 93. 

handles, 93. 

jointer, 95. 

landside, 94. 

mouldboard, 94. 

parts of, 92. 

shackle, 93. 

share, 93. 

standard, 92. 

truck, 95. 
Plowing, 90. 

depth of, 96. 

effect on soil water, 156. 

favors root growth, 14. 

in fall, 99, 157. 

in spring, 98, 157. 

importance of deep, 15, 
17. 

objects of, 91, 92. 

to save water, 92. 

time for, 98. 



INDEX 



255 



Plows, 4. 

Plumule, 78. 

Pollen, 130. 

Pollination, 131, 132, 135. 

cross, 132, 133, 135. 

of wild goose plum, 134. 
Potash, 199. 

in fertilizers, 199. 

in soils, 149. 

sources of, 171. 
Potassium, in plants, 66, 67. 

in soils, 68. 
Potato, 6. 

soils, 28, 29, 161. 
Potato, sweet, 

roots of, 13. 

soils, 28, 160. 
Properties of a fertile soil, 

Prunmg, i37- 

Quitch grass, 121. 
underground stem of, 121. 

Radicle, 78. 

Radish, shrunken root of, 

10. 
Ragweed, 5. 

Rain, work of in making 
soils, 33. 

on clay soils, 41. 

on sandy soils, 41. 
Rake, 101. 
Rakes, 4. 

Raking and soil water, 158. 
Red spider, 117. 
Rhubarb soil, 28. 
Ridging the soil, 98, 158, 169. 
Rock salt, 31. 
Rollers, 107. 
Rolling, loi, 106, 158. 

autumn-sown grain, 106. 

light soils, 106. 

reason for, 106. 

spring-sown grain, 106. 
Rolling cutter harrows, 102. 



Root, a 
how it takes moisture, 18. 
most important part of 

plant, 7. 
Root hairs, 17, 18. 
Root^, 
absorb water, 9, 11, 17. 
absorb plant food, 10, 11. 
alfalfa, 13. 
and fertilizers, 15. 
growth of in length, 16. 
conditions necessary for 

growth of, 8, 20, 141J 

220. 
corn, 13. 
cowpea, 12. 

depth of growth of, 12. 
extent of growth of, 12. 
habit of growth of, 11, 15. 
hold plant in place, 9, 11, 

IS, 16. 
important lessons from, 

location of, 12, 13. 

need firm soil, 20, 22, 23. 

need mellow soil, 20, 22, 

23. 
need moist soil, 20, 22, 23. 
need plant food in soil, 20, 

22, 23. 
need warm soil, 20, 22, 23. 
need air in soil, 21, 22, 23/ 
produce new plants, 10, 11. 
rapidity of growth of, 15. 
soy-bean, 12. 
store food, 10, 11. 
sweet potato, 13. 
tree, 13. 

uses of, 9, 10, II, 15. 
work of, 9, 10, 15. 
Rotation of crops, 219. 
benefits from, 230. 
conditions which modify, 

232. 
effect upon fertility, 224. 
examples of, 234. 
general rules for, 233. 



256 



INDEX 



Rotation of crops, 
length of, 233. 
typical, 231. 

Sampling soils, 163. 
Sand, 26, 38. 

Fresno, 28. 

grades of, 26. 

Miami, 28. 

Norfolk, 28. 

power to absorb water, 

4h 43- 
Sandy soils, 27. 

adapted to early truck, 27. 

effect of humus on, 43, 
44, 220. 

improving, 43. 

water-holding power of, 
44. 
Sandy loam, 28. 
Sapwood, 126. 
Scythes, 4. 
Seed leaves, 77. 
Seed, 130. 

classification of, 85. 

crab, 

drills, 4, 84. 

planting, 81, 83. 
Seeds, 8. 

depth to plant, 81. 

how they come up, 77. 

how to test, 75. 

which germinate at a tem- 
perature of 45 degrees, 

74. 
which germmate at a tem- 
. perature of 60 degrees, 

Seeds to germmate, 

need air, 72, 73> 75- 

need heat, 73, 75. 

need moisture, 71, 75. 
Sepals, 129. 
Shallow cultivation, 14, 15, 

167, 169. 
Share of plow, 93. 
Shackle of plow, 93. 



Silt, 27, 3a 
Silt loam, 29. 
Small fruit soils, 29. 
Soil, 

a fertile, 141. 

definition of, 23. 

formation of, 30, 237. 

material composing, 147, 
26. 

mulch, 56. 

temperature, 57, 60. 

testmg, 162, 215. 

texture, 37, 142. 

texture important, 142, 

143. 
ventilation, 68, 142. 
warmed by sun, 58. 
warmed by conduction, 

58. 
water, 40, 151, 
Soils, s, 23. 
adobe, 30. 
alfalfa, 29. 
and the farmer, 5. 
attitude of toward water, 

40. 
cabbage, 28, 161. 
canteloupe, 28, 161. 
capacity for film water, 51. 
cauliflower, 28. 
classified, 26. 
clay, 29. 
cloddy, 38. 
close, 38. 
coarse, 38. 
compact, 38. 
corn, 28, 29, 30, 161. 
cotton, 28, 29, 161. 
effect of working when 

wet, 26, 41. 
egg plant, 28. 
fine, 38. 
forest, 29. 
fruit, 27, 29. 
general farming, 28, 29. 
grain, 28, 162. 
grassy 28, 29, 162. 



INDEX 



257 



SoHs, gravelly, 29. 
hard, 3& 
hay, 29, 30. 
heavy, 38. 
how made, 30. 
humus, 27, 38. 
leachy, 38. 
loamy, 28. 
loose, 38. 
lose heat, 59. 
light, 38. 
lime in, 67, 149. 
loss of water from, 53, 

153. 
lumpy, 38. 
mellow, 38. 
oat, 29. 
open, 38. 

organic matter in, 220. 
pasture, 30. 
pea, 28. 
peat, 30. 
peppers, 28. 
plant food in, 63. 
potato, 28, 29, loi. 
porous, 38. 

relation of to water, 39, 46. 
relation of to plants, 23. 
retentive, 38. 
rhubarb, 28. 
sandy, 27. 
small fruit, 28, 29. 
soft, 38. 
sorghum, 162. 
stiff, 38. 
stony, 29. 
strawberry, 28. 
swamp, 30. 
testing, 162, 215. 
tobacco, 27. 
tomato, 28, 161. 
truck, 27, 28, 29, 161. 
vegetable, 28. 
water-absorbing power of, 

40, 43, 46, 142. 
water-holding power of, 

44. 142. 



Soils, watermelon, 28, 161. 

wheat, 29, 30. 
Soil water, 150, 151. 
amount of used by plants, 

40. 
and farm operations, 156. 
control of, 53. 
form of, 48, 153. 
greatest factor in growth 

of crop, 46. 
importance of, 39, 151. 
loss of, 53, 15s, 157, 164. 
loss of by evaporation, 

54. ^ 
. loss of by weeds, 54, 165. 
loss of by surface wash, 

necessity for, 151. 

not enough, 154. 

saving, 165. 

sources of, 40, 153. 

too much, 154. 
Soil water influenced, 

by cropping, 159. 

by harrowing, loi, 103, 
158. 

by humus, 42, 43, 44, 45, 
220. 

by plowing, 91, 156. 

by ridging, 98, 158. 

by rolling, 106, 158. 
Sorghum soils, 162. 
Soy-bean, as a green ma- 
nure crop, 189. 

growth of roots, 12. 
Spade, 90. 
Spading, 90. 
Spading-fork, 90. 
Spike-toothed harrows, 102, 

104- 
Spraying, 118. 
Spring plowing, 98. 
Spring - toothed harrows, 

102, 103. 
Squash flowers, 133. 
Stable manure, 171, 173. 
Stamen, 129. 



258 



INDEX 



Stamen, function of, 131. 
Staminate flowers, 133. 
Starch in plants, 64, 66. 

iodine test for, 64. 
Stems, 8, 120. 

distinguished from roots, 
120. 

habit of growth of, 121. 

structure of, 125. 

underground, 121. 

uses of, 120. 

work of checked, 12^. 
Stigma, 130. 
Stomata, iia 
Stones, 26, 31. 
Stony loam, 29. 
Strawberry flowers, 134. 

perfect, 135. 

pistillate, 135. 
Study of plants begun, 6. 
Style, 130. 
Sugar cane, 5. 

soil, 162. 
Sugar in plants, 64, 66. 
Sulphate of ammonia, 194. 
Sulphate of potash, 199. 
Sulphur in plants, 65. 
Sun, work of in making 

soils, 32, 34. 
Sunlight, and the farmer, 5. 

necessary for leaf work, 
no, III, 112. 
Superphosphates, 198. 
Swamp muck, 30. 
Sweet clover, 190. 
Sweet potato roots, .13. 

soils, 28, 160. 
Sweet potatoes, 5. 
Sylvinite, 199. 
Systems of cropping, 119. 



Tankage, 194. 

as fertilizer, 194. 

nitrogen in, 194. 

phosphoric acid in, 194. 
Temperature of soil, 57. 



Tendrils, plants climb by, 

122. 
Testing seeds, 75. 
Testing soils for water, 162. 

for plant food, 215. 
Texture of soils, 37, 143, 

150. 
Thinning fruit, 137. 
Thistle, 6. 
Thistle family, 86. 
Thomas slag, 198. 

as fertilizer, 198. 

phosphoric acid in, 198. 
Tillage and plant food, 67. 

and fertility, 150. 
Time to begin this study, 3. 
Time to plow, 98. 
Tobacco soils, 27, 
Tomato soils, 161. 
Tools, 5. 

and the farmer, 5. 
Transpiration, the fact, no. 

amount of, in. 
Transplanting, 87. 

machines, 89. 
Truck of plow, 95. 
Truck soils, 27, 28, 29, 161. 
Tubercles on roots of le- 
gumes, 68, 144. 
Turnip, 6. 
Type soils, 26. 

Under drains, 237. 

advantage of, 237. 
UndergrQund stems, 121. 

Value of knowledge of 

flowers, 134. 
Vegetables, 
roots, 13, 14, 15. 
soil for, 28. 
Ventilation of soils, 68, 142. 
necessary for germination, 

73- 
necessary for root growth, 
21, 22, 23. 



INDEX 



259 



Ventilation of soils neces- 
sary for fixation of ni- 
trogen, 144. 



Water, absorption of by Sipil, 
40, 43, 46, 142. 
amount used by plants, 40. 
capillary, 49, 153. 
evaporation of, 54, 155. 
free, 48, 153- 
film, 50. 
ground, 48. 
importance of to plants, 

39. 
percolation of, 41. 
relation of soils to, 39. 
standing, 48. 
work of in making soils, 

33, 35- 
Water and the farmer, 5. 
Water in plants, 65. 
Watei mg house plants, 51. 
Watermelon soils, 28, loi. 
Weeders, 167. 



Weeds, 54. 

how they injure crops, 54, 
92. 

how to kill, 119. 

waste soil water, 54. 
Wheat soils, 29, 30. 

water used by, 40. 
Wheel hoes, 168. 
White hellebore, 117. 
Wind pollination, 132. 
Work of roots, 9, 10, 15. 
Work of sun in making 
soils, 32, 34. , 

air in making soils, 316. 

animals in making soils, 

37: . . .. 

movmg ice m makmg 

soils, 35. 
moving water in making 

soils, 33, 35. 
plants in making soils, 36. 
rain in making soils, 33, 
Wood ashes, 199. 
Wool waste as fertilizer, 

195. 



This book should be returned to ^ 
the Library on or before the last dp: 
stamped below. 

A fine of five cents a day is incur 
by retaining it beyond the speeifi 
time. 

Please return promptly. 





