
Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924000677223 



Other CUL Copies? 


Yes (Where? 


WorldCat 


How many libtades hold? {°{) 


First Edition? 


Yes mo? 


Signed by author 


Yes ^I?^ 


Book Listed in 

Cookbooks Worth Collecting! 


Yes C^o^ 


Author Listed at 
http://www.biography.com 


Yes CNo^ 


Price at 

http://www.abaa.org/ 
pages/php/searchform.php 
or other rare book sites 


$ 


Other things to note 





" What does cookery mean ? It means the know- 
ledge of Medea, and of Circe, and of Calypso, and 
of Helen, and of Rebekah, and of the Queen of 
Sheba. It means knowledge of all herbs, and 
fruits, and balms, and spices, and of all that is 
healing and sweet in groves, and savoury in meat. 
It means carefulness and inventiveness, watchful- 
ness, willingness, and readiness of appliances. It 
means the economy of your Great-grandmother, 
and the Science of modern chemistry, and French 
art, and Arabian hospitality. It means, in fine, 
that you are to see imperatively that every one has 
something nice to eat." 

RUSKIN 




LONDON 

GAY -AND -BIRD 

1905 



Published . . May 1904 

Second Edition . March 1905 

J" 
i'UL 



To 

THE ONLY WOMAN 

WHO COULD TURN 

ME FROM 

BACHELORDOM 



CONTENTS 




CHAP. 

I. The Chafing Dish 


PAGS 

I 


II. Preliminaries 


'9 


III. Soups 


38 


IV. Fish 


54 


V. Flesh and Fowl 


79 


VI. Vegetables and Salads 


108 


VII. Eggs and Savouries 


138 


VIII. Sauces 


'59 


IX. Sweets and Oddments 


177 


X. Amenities of the Table 


192 


Index 


207 




"There does not at this blessed moment breathe 
on the Earth's surface a human being that willna 
prefer eating and drinking to all ither pleasures 
o' body or soul." — The Ettrick Shepherd. 

Every bachelor has a wife of some sort. 
Mine is a Chafing Dish ; and I desire to 
sing her praises. 

My better half — I love to call her Chaf- 
finda, and to dwell upon the doubled con- 
sonant — is a nickel-plated dish on a wrought- 
iron stand, with a simple spirit-lamp where- 
with to keep herself warm. I bought her at 
Harrod's Stores for twelve shillings and 
ninepence — and she has sisters. 

A 



2 THE CHAFING DISH 

It has been borne in upon me that many 
quite nice folk may be glad to learn some- 
thing of the possibilities of Chaffinda. 
Whether married or single, there are moments 
in the life of nearly every man and woman 
when the need of a quick, hot, and light 
little meal is worth much fine gold. To 
such I would politely address myself. 

The ordinary domestic cook is a tireless 
enemy of the Chafing Dish. She calls it 
" fiddle-faddle." Maybe. But inasmuch as 
it is clean, economical, speedy and rather 
simple, it would naturally not appeal to her 
peculiar sense of the culinary art. 

To bachelors, male and female, in chambers, 
lodgings, diggings, and the like, in fact to 
all who " batch " ; to young couples with a 
taste for theatres, concerts, and homely late 
suppers ; to yachtsmen, shooting-parties, and 
picnickers ; to inventive artists who yearn for 
fame in the evolution of a new entr6e ; to 
invalids, night workers, actors and stock- 
brokers, the Chafing Dish is a welcome friend 
and companion. 

It has its limitations, of course, but they 
are few and immaterial, and its obvious 



THE CHAFING DISH 3 

advantages and conveniences far outweigh its 
trivial drawbacks. At the same time it must 
be remembered that it is a serious cooking 
apparatus, and by no means a mere toy. 

It is quite erroneous to imagine that the 
Chafing Dish is an American invention. 
Nothing of the sort. The earliest trace of it 
is more than a quarter of a thousand years 
old. "Le Cuisinier Frangais," by Sieur 
Francois Pierre de la Varenne, Escuyer de 
Cuisine de Monsieur le Marquis d'Uxelles, 
published in Paris in 1652, contains a recipe 
for Champignons a rOlivier, in which the use 
of a Rechaut is recommended. A translation 
of this work, termed " The French Cook," 
was published in London in 1653, and the 
selfsame recipe of Mushrooms after the Oliver 
contains the injunction to use a Chafing 
Dish ; moreover, the frontispiece, a charm- 
ingly executed drawing, shows a man-cook 
in his kitchen, surrounded by the implements 
of his art ; and on the table a Chafing Dish, 
much akin to our latter-day variety, is burning 
merrily. This was in 1653. The May- 
Hower sailed in 1620. 

So much for the antiquity of the Chafing 



4 THE CHAFING DISH 

Dish. At the same time our mitigated 
thanks are due to America for its compara- 
tively recent reintroduction, for until quite 
lately, in Great Britain, its use was practically 
limited to the cooking of cheese on the table. 
The Chafing Dish is much esteemed across 
the Atlantic, although one is forced to admit 
that it is sometimes put to base ^ises in the 
concoction of unholy stews, which have not 
the natural flavour of fish, flesh or fowl, or 
even good red herring. Still, if the Americans 
are vague in their French nomenclature, un- 
orthodox in their sauces, eclectic in their 
flavourings, and over-lavish in their condi- 
ments, yet they have at any rate brought 
parlour cooking to a point where it may 
gracefully be accepted as an added pleasure 
to life. 

When two or three are gathered together, 
and one mentions the magic word " Chafing 
Dish," the second invariably chimes in with 
"Welsh Rabbit." This is an error of taste, 
but excusable in the circumstances. Chafing 
Dishes were not created for the exclusive 
canonisation of Welsh Rabbits, although a 
deft hand may occasionally play with one in 



THE CHAFING DISH 5 

a lightsome mood. There are other and 
better uses. All the same, a fragrant and 
delicate Rabbit is not to be despised, although 
it must not be made conceited by too great an 
elevation into the realms of high cookery. 

My Chaffinda has at least seventeen hundred 
and four different charms, therein somewhat 
exceeding the average number appertaimng 
to her sex, but it would require volumes to 
mention them separately, and it must suffice 
to indicate roughly a few of the more 
prominent. 

I suppose that every nation has the cooks 
that it deserves, and, if this be accepted as an 
axiom, the general degeneration of the Plain 
Cook of the middle classes amply accounts 
for the growing cult of the Chafing Dish. 
The British school of cookery, in its 
mediocre form, is monotony exemplified. 
Too many broths spoil the cook ; and hence 
we derive our dull sameness of roast and 
boiled. 

Sweet are the juices of diversity, and whilst 
there is no reason for the Chafer to elaborate 
a sauce of thirteen ingredients, the cunning 
manipulation of three or four common articles 



6 THE CHAFING DISH 

of the domestic store-cupboard will often 
give (intentionally or otherwise) surprising 
results. This I shall hope to explain more 
fully later on. 

Imagination and a due sense of proportion 
are as necessary in cooking as in any other 
art — more so than in some, for Impressionism 
in the kitchen simply means indigestion. 
Digestion is the business of the human 
interior, indigestion that of the doctor. It is 
so easy to cook indigestible things that a 
savoury cunningly concocted of Bismuth and 
Pepsine would seem an almost necessary 
adjunct to the menu (or Carte Dinatoire, as 
the French Revolutionists called it) of the 
budding Chafist. 

But the demon of indigestion may easily 
be exorcised with a little care and thoutjht. 
Three great apothegms should be borne in 
mind. Imprimis : Never worry your food ; 
. let it cook out its own salvation. Item : 
Use as few highly spiced condiments as 
possible ; and, lastly, keep to natural flavours, 
juices, and sauces. 

Much modern depravity, for instance, I 
attribute to the unholy cult of Mayonnaise 



THE CHAFING DISH 7 

(or Mahonnaise, or Bayonnaise, or Mag- 
nonaise, according to different culinary 
authorities). At its best it is simply a saucy 
disguise to an innocent salmon or martial 
lobster, reminding the clean-palated of an old 
actor painted up to look young. I once 
knew a man who proposed to a girl at a 
dance-supper simply because he could not 
think of anything else to say, and suddenly 
discovered that they both hated Mayonnaise. 
I have no reason to suppose that they are 
unhappy. 

At the same time I am in no wise against 
trying new dishes, new combinations of subtle 
flavours, if they do not obliterate the true 
taste of the basis. An experimental evening 
with Chaffinda, when one is not sure how 
things are going to turn out, is, I find, most 
exhilarating, and a sure cure for the blues. 
But I am fain to admit that on such occasions 
I always provide a chunk of Benoist pressed 
beef as a stand-by in case of emergency. 

There is nothing final about the Chafing 
Dish. 

Another point about having a wife in the 
shape of a Chafing Dish is somewhat delicate 



8 THE CHAFING DISH 

to explain. Coarsely indicated, it amounts 
to this. Continuous intercourse with such a 
delicious, handy and resourceful helpmeet 
tends to a certain politeness in little things, a 
dainty courtesy which could not be engen- 
dered by the constant companionship of 
a common kitchen - range. Chafing - Dish 
cookery bears the same relation to middle- 
class kitchen cookery that the delight&l art 
of fencing does to that of the broadsword. 
Both are useful, but there is a world of subtle 
differentiation between the two. The average 
rough and tumble of the domestic saucepan 
contrasts with the deft manipulation of the 
miniature battery of tiny pans. 

And politeness always pays ; moreover, it 
it vastly becoming. I gave a little tea-party 
recently to some dear children. Some of 
them were twins. Edith, a female twin ot 
nine, asked me to help her to some more 
blackberry jam. " Certainly, Edith," I said ; 
" but why don't you help yourself ? " The 
maid was even politer than she was hungry : 
" Because I was afraid I should not take 
enough." And thus we learn how things 
work among manikinkind. 



THE CHAFING DISH 9 

There are some who delight in the flavour 
of onions. I do myself — but then I am a 
bachelor. Politeness and onions form one of 
life's most persistent inconsistencies. His 
Most Gracious Majesty King George IV., it 
is recorded, attempted to kiss a royal house- 
maid, who said : " Sir, your language both 
shocks and appals me ; besides which, your 
breath smells of onions ! " And again, in a 
Cambridge dining-room, a framed notice on 
the wall stated : " Gentlemen partial to 
spring onions are requested to use the table 
under the far window." 

Nevertheless, the benefits of onions toward 
the human race are probably not less than 
those attendant on the discovery of steam. It 
is a vegetable whose manifold properties and 
delights have never been properly sung. As 
a gentle stimulant, a mild soporific, a demo- 
cratic leveller of exaggeration in flavour, a 
common bond between prince and peasant, it 
is a standing protest of Nature against Art. 

On my wall, as I write, hangs a delightful 
oil study of a clump of onions in flower, 
which the deft artist aptly dubs Le Fond de 
la Cuisine. Dr, William King said that 



lo THE CHAFING DISH 

" Onions can make even heirs or widows 
weep " ; and the *' Philosopher's Banquet," 
written in 1633, seems to meet the case ex- 
cellently : 

"If Leekes you like, but do their smelle disleeke, 
Eat Onyons, and you shall not smelle the leeke ; 
If you of Onyons would the scente expelle. 
Eat Garlicke, that shall drowne the Onyon's 
Smelle." 

I would not go quite as far as the poet, but 
I confess to a weakness for chives. A judi- 
cious touch to many salads and made dishes 
is very desirable. Chives are to onions as 
the sucking-pig is to pork, a baby scent, a 
fairy titillation, an echo of the great Might 
Be. 

Charles Lamb had a friend who said that a 
man cannot have a pure mind who refuses 
apple dumplings. In the plural, mind you, 
not the singular. Appetites have vastly 
changed since then, probably not for the 
better, but the test even to-day seems ade- 
quate and noteworthy. I do not propose to 
recommend either onions or apple dumplings 
as Chafing-Dish experiments, but merely 



THE CHAFING DISH n 

adduce them as worthy examples of the 
toothsomeness of simplicity. 

The late lamented Joseph, of the Savoy 
and elsewhere, once said in his wisdom, 
" Make the good things as plain as possible. 
God gave a special flavour to everything. 
Respect" it. Do not destroy it by messing." 
These are winged words, and should be in- 
scribed (in sugar icing) above the hearth- 
stone of every artist in pots and pans. 

The Chafing Dish is a veritable Mephisto- 
pheles in the way of temptation. It is so 
alluringly easy to add just a taste of this or 
that, a few drops of sauce, a sprinkling of 
herbs, a suggestion of something else. But 
beware and perpend ! Do not permit your 
culinary perspective to become too Japanesque 
in the matter of foreground. Remember 
your chiaroscuro, take care of the middle 
distance, and let the background assert its im- 
portance in the whole composition. " I can 
resist anything — except temptation " is the 
cry of the hopelessly weak in culinary 
morality. 

Lest I should be hereafter accused of con- 
tradicting my own most cherished beliefs, let 



12 THE CHAFING DISH 

me hasten here and now to assert that con- 
diments, esoteric and otherwise, were un- 
doubtedly made to be used as well as to be 
sold ; and I am no enemy of bolstering up 
the weak and assimilative character of — say 
— veal, " the chameleon of the kitchen," with 
something stronger, and, generally speaking, 
of making discreet use of suave subtleties to 
give completeness to the picture. But the 
watchword must always be Discretion ! To 
those who muddle their flavours I would 
commend the words of the Archbishop in 
Gil Bias : " My son, I wish you all manner 
of prosperity — and a little more taste ! " 

Sidney Smith thought Heaven must be a 
place where you ate pate de foies gras to the 
sound of trumpets. There is a late Georgian 
ingenuousness about this which is refreshing. 
The liver of the murdered goose and the 
scarlet sound of brass ! Nowadays a Queen's 
Hall gourmet would compare the celestial 
regions to a continuous feast of Cailles de 
Uigne braisees a la Parisienne to the accom- 
paniment of Tschaikowsky's "Casse Noisette" 
suite, which is more complicated, but per- 
chance not less indigestible. 



THE CHAFING DISH 13 

The typical crude British cookery, if care- 
lessly performed, is a constant menace to its 
disciples. If well cooked there is nothing 
more wholesome, save perhaps the French 
cuisine bourgeoise, but — " much virtue in your 
If." As a matter of fact, in nine households 
out of ten, in the middle-middle classes (and 
the upper too) the fare is well-intentioned in 
design, but deadly in execution, with a total 
absence of care and taste. 

There is a curious old book, probably out 
of print nowadays, which deals tenderly, if 
severely, with the shortcomings of British 
cookery. It was published in 1853, and is 
called "Memoirs of a Stomach, written by 
Himself." A typical passage runs : " The 
English system of cookery it would be im- 
pertinent of me to describe ; but still, when I 
think of that huge round of parboiled ox- 
flesh, with sodden dumplings floating in a 
saline, greasy mixture, surrounded by carrots, 
looking red with disgust, and turnips pale 
with dismay, I cannot help a sort of inward 
shudder, and making comparisons unfavour- 
able to English gastronomy." 

This is fair comment, and brings me back 



14 THE CHAFING DISH 

to the advantages of the Chafing Dish. An 
old German fairy tale, I think one of 
Grimm's, says : " Nothing tastes so nice as 
what one eats oneself," and it is certain that 
if one cooks so as entirely to satisfy oneself 
(always supposing oneself to be a person of 
average good taste), then one's guests will be 
equally satisfied — if not more so. 

In dealing with ChafBnda we may, after a 
minimum of practice, be almost certain of 
results. If one is naturally clean, neat and 
dainty in one's tastes, then one's cooking 
should display the same characteristics. One's 
individuality shines forth in the Chafing 
Dish and is reflected in one's sauces. Chaf- 
finda conveys a great moral lesson, and, as 
a teacher, should not lack in honour and 
reverence. 

The late Prince Consort, being on a visit, 
wrote to a friend : " Things always taste so 
much better in small houses " ; if one sub- 
stitutes small dishes for small houses the 
Prince predicted the Chafing Dish. 

The kitchen is the country in which there 
are always discoveries to be made, and with 
Chaffinda on a neat white tablecloth before 



THE CHAFING DISH 15 

one, half a dozen little dishes with food in 
various stages of preparation, a few select 
condiments, an assortment of wooden spoons 
and like utensils — and an inventive brain — 
there are absolutely no limits to one's dis- 
coveries. One is bound by no rule, no law, 
no formula, save those of ordinary common 
sense, and though it might be too much to 
expect to rediscover the lost Javanese recipe 
for cooking kingfishers' or halcyons' nests, 
the old manner of treating a Hocco, or the 
true inwardness of " the dish called Maupy- 
gernon " ; yet there are illimitable possibilities 
which act as incentives to the enterprising. 

There is a Chinese proverb to the eifect 
that most men dig their graves with their 
teeth, meaning thereby that we all eat too 
much. This is awfully true and sad and 
undeniable, and avoidable. The late Lord 
Playfair asserted that the actual requirements 
of a healthy man for a seven-day week were 
three pounds of meat, one pound of fat, two 
loaves of bread, one ounce of salt, and five 
pints of milk. What a contrast to the chop- 
eating, joint-chewing, plethoric individual 
who averages five meals a day, and does 



1 6 THE CHAFING DISH 

justice to them all ! Sir Henry Thompson 
says : " The doctors all tell us we eat too 
fast, and too often, and too much, and too 
early, and too late ; but no one of them ever 
says that we eat too little." 

The proper appreciation of Chaffinda may 
ameliorate this, for in using her one speedily 
becomes convinced of the beauty of small 
portions, an appetite kept well in hand, 
and the manifold advantages of modera- 
tion. It is easy to feed, but nice eating 
is an art. 

Bishop Wilberforce knew a greedy clergy- 
man who, when asked to say grace before 
dinner, was wont to look whether there were 
champagne glasses on the table. If there 
were, he began : " Bountiful Jehovah " ; but 
if he only espied claret glasses he contented 
himself with : " We are not worthy of the 
least of Thy mercies." 

Of course growing children and quite young 
grown-up folks require proportionately more 
food than real adults, for they have not only 
to maintain but to build up their bodies. 
But to such the Chafing Dish will not appeal 
primarily, if at all, and they may even be 



THE CHAFING DISH 17 

found impertinent enough to look upon it as 
a culinary joke, which it is not. 

ChafRnda hates gluttons, but takes pleasure 
in ministering to the modest wants of the 
discerning acolyte, fostering his incipient 
talent, urging him to higher flights, and 
tempting him to delicate fantasies. 

" Do have some more ; it isn't very good, 
but there's lots of it." So said a friend of 
mine to his guests about his half-crown port. 
This is the sentiment of the man who knows 
not the Chafing Dish. " Lots of it " is the 
worst kind of hospitality, and suggests the 
quantity, not quality, of the cheap-jack kerb- 
stone butcher. Little and good, and enough 
to go round, is the motto of the tactful house- 
husband. A French cook once said that it 
was only unlucky to sit down thirteen at 
table if the food were but sufficient for 
twelve. 

There is such a deal of fine confused feed- 
ing about the ordinary meals of even a simply 
conducted country house that imagination 
boggles at the thought of the elaboration of 
the daily menus. With four, or possibly 
five, repasts a day, few of them chaste, most 



1 8 THE CHAFING DISH 

of them complicated, a careful observer will 
note that the cook has been listening to the 
pipings of the Great God Sauce, and covers 
natural flavours with misnamed concoctions 
which dp nothing but obliterate nature and 
vex the palate. 

There are some few houses, great and 
small, town and country, where the elemental 
decencies of the kitchen are manfully pre- 
served, where wholesome mutton does not 
masquerade as Quartier d ^ Agneau a la Mi sir i- 
corde, and the toothsome lobster is not 
Americanised out of all knowing. To such 
establishments, all honour and glory. 

But to those whose means or opportunities 
do not permit of a carefully trained cook, a 
home-made artist, I would in all diffidence 
recommend the cult of the Chafing Dish, 
whose practical use I now propose to discuss. 





"Tout se fait en dinant dans le siecle ou nous 
sommes, 
Et c'est par les diners qu'on gouvcrne les 
hommes." — Ch. de Monselet. 

Chaffinda's cooking battery is small, but 
select. The Chafing Dish proper comprises 
the stand and lamp, and the dish, called 
the " Blazer," which has an ebony handle ; 
and there is an ingenious spirit diminisher 
which enables one to reduce the flame to a 
minimum, just enough to keep the flame 
simmering, or to put it out altogether. A 
second, or hot water pan, belongs to the outfit, 
and an asbestos toast-making tray may be 
bought for a trifle. In addition, a couple 
of green or brown dishes of French fire- 
proof china, an egg-poacher, a marmite, and 



20 THE CHAFING DISH 

perhaps a casserole, all of which are best from 
Bonnet in Church Street, Soho, will come in 
very usefully. To these may be added the 
usual complement of plates and dishes and 
several wooden spoons of different sizes ; a 
fish-lifter is also desirable, so is a strainer, and 
a pair of graters come in very handily. This 
practically completes the gear of the budding 
Chafist, though additional items may be added 
from time to time as occasion demands. 

The makers of the Chafing Dish sell a 
useful methylated spirit can, with a curved 
spout to fill up the asbestos wick. It will be 
found that a good filling will burn for thirty 
to forty minutes, which is ample for all 
ordinary purposes. Much of course depends 
on the quality of the spirit used, and, further, 
the wick will only become thoroughly 
saturated after half a dozen usings, and will 
subsequently require rather less spirit. I 
have found that water boils in the " Blazer," 
or handled Chafing Dish, in about ten 
minutes, and instructions on bottled or pre- 
served food, soups and the like, must be 
slightly discounted. Thus if one is told to 
boil for twenty minutes, it will be found that 



PRELIMINARIES 21 

fifteen minutes in the Chafing Dish will be 
ample in nearly all cases. 

As this is mainly a true story of my own 
personal adventures among the pots and 
pans, I can hardly do better than describe the 
first dish I tried my 'prentice hand upon, with 
the devout wish that all neophytes may be as 
successful therewith as I was. 



Beef Strips. 

The experiment, the preliminary exercise, 
if I may so term it, has no name, although it 
savours somewhat of the Resurrection Pie, 
unbeloved of schoolboys. Let us call it 
Beef Strips. Cut three thick slices from a 
rather well-cooked cold sirloin of beef, cut 
these again into strips a quarter of an inch 
wide and about three inches long. Take 
care that they are very lean. Chop up half 
a dozen cold boiled potatoes (not of the 
floury kind) into dice. Put the beef and the 
potatoes into the Chafing Dish. Light the 
lamp and see that the heat is steady, but not 
too strong. Add at once a good-sized walnut 
of butter, a teaspoon of Worcester sauce, salt 



22 THE CHAFING DISH 

and pepper. For at least ten minutes turn 
over the mixture continually with a wooden 
spoon until it is thoroughly heated. Turn it 
out on to a hot dish, and garnish with half a 
dozen tiny triangles of toast. 

This is a simple luncheon or supper dish 
which takes little time, and — to my taste at 
least — is appetising and satisfying. Like all 
Chafing-Dish preparations, it can be cooked 
on the table, with no more protection than 
a tray under the wrought-iron stand, and a 
square of coloured tablecloth upon your 
white one to receive possible splashes or 
drops. 

Jellied Ham. 

Now for exercise number two, which I 
have christened Jellied Ham, and commend 
as a dish very unlikely to go wrong in the 
manipulation. 

Get your flame steady and true, and put a 
small walnut of butter In the dish. When it 
is fluid, add a good dessert-spoonful of red 
currant jelly, a liqueur glass of sherry, and 
three drops of Tabasco sauce. Drop into 



PRELIMINARIES 23 

this simmering mixture a few slices of cold 
boiled ham cut thin and lean, and let It 
slowly cook for six to eight minutes. If you 
wish to be extravagant, then instead of the 
sherry use a full wine-glassful of champagne. 
It is by no means necessary to eat this with 
vegetables, but if you insist on the con- 
junction, I would recommend a pur^e of 
spinach, directions for which appear here- 
after. 

This Jellied Ham is an agreeable concoc- 
tion, which I find peculiarly soothing as a 
light supper after having seen an actor- 
manager playing Shakespeare. This is, how- 
ever, after all only a matter of taste. 

It has always seemed to me that different 
forms of the drama require, nay demand, 
different dinners and suppers, according to 
the disposition in which one approaches them. 
For instance, before an Adelphi melodrama, 
turtle soup (mock if necessary), turbot and 
rump steaks are indicated, whereas a musical 
comedy calls for an East Room menu, and 
an Ibsen or G. B. Shaw play for an A.B.C. 
shop or a vegetarian restaurant respectively. 
But I only hint at the broad outline of my idea, 



24 THE CHAFING DISH 

which is capable of extension to an indefinite 
limit. 

Vegetarian meals do not appeal to me. 
There is a sense of sudden and temporary 
repletion followed shortly afterwards by an 
aching void, which can only be assuaged by 
a period of comparatively gross feeding. 
Besides, judging from the appearance of my 
vegetarian friends (in whom maybe I am 
unfortunate) they often seem so much to 
resemble some of the foods they eat as to 
render themselves liable to be dubbed canni- 
bals. But this is probably mere prejudice. 

Minced Chicken or Game. 

To resume the cult of Chaffinda. Here is 
another dish which I recommend to the be- 
ginner. It is a simple mince. Take any 
remains of chicken or game, pheasant for 
choice, and mince it (or have it minced) 
small, but not too small. Never use a minc- 
ing machine. Put the mince aside, and mix 
in the Chafing Dish the following sauce : a 
full walnut of butter, a tablespoon of flour, 
and a pinch of salt and pepper ; add gradu- 



PRELIMINARIES 25 

ally about a tumblerful of milk. Keep con- 
tinually stirring this and cook it well for five 
minutes, adding three drops of Tabasco sauce 
and half a tablespoon of Worcester sauce, 
also a squeeze of a lemon. When it is 
thoroughly amalgamated throw in the mince 
and let it get hot without burning. Serve it 
with toast or very crisp biscuits. 

The only objection I know to this mince 
is that all cold birds, especially cold pheasant, 
are so excellent that it seems almost super- 
fluous to hot them up. But there are 
occasions when the gamey fumes from Chaf- 
finda are very alluring, and, after all, it is poor 
work eating cold cates at midnight, however 
tempting they might be at breakfast. 

Our forebears were unanimous in their 
praise of the lordly long-tail. In a letter 
from Sidney Smith to " Ingoldsby " Barham, 
the worthy cleric says : " Many thanks, my 
dear Sir, for your kind present of game. If 
there is a pure and elevated pleasure in this 
world, it is that of roast pheasant and bread 
sauce ; barndoor fowls for Dissenters, but for 
the Real Churchman, the Thirty-Nine times 
articled clerk, the pheasant ! the pheasant ! " 



26 THE CHAFING DISH 



Toast. 

It should perhaps be mentioned that the 
making of toast on the Chafing Dish is the 
easiest of functions. The asbestos tray, al- 
ready referred to, is placed over the flame, 
and on the metal side the bread in rounds, 
triangles, or sippets ; a few minutes serve to 
toast the one side adequately, and on being 
turned over it can easily be browned through. 
Mrs. Beeton is loquacious on the art of toast- 
making, and lays down divers rules, but she 
knew not Chaffinda. A modern essayist who 
discourses learnedly and most sensibly on 
toast, makes a remark in his chapter on 
breakfasts, which although not entirely ger- 
mane to my subject, is so true and, to my 
thinking, so characteristic, that I cannot refrain 
from quoting it. He is referring to marma- 
lade. " The attitude of women to marma- 
lade," he says, " has never been quite sound. 
True, they make it excellently, but afterwards 
their association with it is one lamentable 
retrogression. They spread it over pastry ; 
they do not particularly desire it at breakfast ; 



PRELIMINARIES 27 

and (worst) they decant it into glass dishes 
and fancy jars." 

How true, how profound, how typical I 
But this is wandering from the point, which 
is cookery, not casuistry. Women are never 
out of place in connection with the good 
things of the table, although they do not 
often aspire to the omni-usefulness of the 
well- meaning, if ill - educated, lady who 
applied for the position of nurse to one of the 
field hospitals during the Boer war, and men- 
tioned as her crowning qualification that, 
"like Caesar's wife, I am all things to all men." 

Mutton Cutlets. 

After this little digression it will be well to 
turn to more serious things — cutlets, for 
instance. Obtain from the butcher a couple 
of well-trimmed mutton cutlets, and from the 
greengrocer sufficient green peas that, when 
shelled, you will have a breakfast-cupful. 
Melt a walnut of butter in the Chafing Dish. 
Into the melted butter drop a tablespoonful 
of flour and a sprinkling^ of chopped chives. 
A teaspoonful of Worcester sauce and three 



28 THE CHAFING DISH 

drops of Tabasco, together with salt at dis- 
cretion, will suffice for flavouring, and care 
must be taken that the mixture does not boil. 
Put in the cutlets, and when they begin to 
turn brownish add the peas, and half a cupful 
of milk. About fifteen minutes should cook 
the meat through if your spirit flame be 
strong, otherwise it may take somewhat 
longer. A very good substitute for Worcester 
sauce, in this connection, is Sauce Robert, 
which it is unnecessary to manufacture, as it 
can be bought ready made, and well made 
too, of the Escoffier brand. With certain 
meats it is an excellent condiment. 

By the way, in some very old cookery 
books Sauce Robert was termed Roe-Boat 
sauce, an extraordinary orthographic muddle. 
An omelette was likewise known as a 
" Hamlet." 

This suggests the somewhat too sophisti- 
cated schoolboy's description of Esau as " a 
hairy, humpbacked man, who wrote a book of 
fables and sold the copyright for a bottle of 
potash." 

It may be deemed superfluous, and in that 
case I apologise beforehand, to insist on the 



PRELIMINARIES 29 

most scrupulous cleanliness in dealing with 
the Chafing Dish and its adjuncts. Not only 
should the dish itself be kept spotless and 
thoroughly scoured, but the stand, the lamp, 
the implements, and the glass and china 
should be immaculate. Servants are easily 
persuaded to look after the cleaning process, 
and do it with a certain amount of care, but 
it can do no harm to understudy their duties 
and add an extra polish all round oneself. It 
gives one, too, a personal interest in the 
result, otherwise lacking. I recommend the 
use of at least three dishcloths, which should 
be washed regularly and used discreetly. The 
Chafist who neglects his apparatus is un- 
worthy of the high mission with which he is 
charged, and deserves the appellation of the 
younger son of Archidamus III., King of 
Sparta. Cleanliness is next to all manner of 
things in this dusty world of ours, and abso- 
lutely nothing conduces more to the enjoy- 
ment of a mealet that one has cooked oneself 
than the knowledge that everything is spick 
and span, and that one has contributed oneself 
thereto by a little extra care and fore- 
thought 



30 THE CHAFING DISH 

A word of warning here. Never use 
"kitchen butter," or "kitchen sherry," or 
"kitchen eggs," or " kitchen " anything else ; 
use the very best you can afFord. 

An armoury of brooms, brushes, scrubbers, 
soap and soda is in no way necessary. A 
couple of polishing cloths and a little, a very 
little, of one of the many patent cleaners is 
all that is required. A clear conscience and 
plenty of elbow-grease does the rest. 

The British equivalent of the continental 
charcutier is of inestimable service to the 
Chafist. At his more or less appetising 
emporium, small quantities of edibles can be 
purchased which are excellently well adapted 
for the cult of Chaffinda, especially if one be 
inclined towards the recooking of cold meats, 
instead of the treatment of them in a raw 
state. Both have their advantages — and their 
drawbacks. It is a general, but totally in- 
accurate, belief that meat once cooked needs 
only to be hotted up again. Nothing could 
be more fatal to its flavour and nutriment. 
A certain amount of the good juices of the 
meat must inevitably have been lost during- 
the first process, and therefore great care 



PRELIMINARIES 31 

must be taken in the second operation to 
tempt forth, and, in some cases, to restore 
the natural flavour. Cold cooked meat needs 
long and gentle cooking, a strong clear flame, 
without sudden diiFerences in temperature, 
and it may be taken as a general rule that 
cold meat needs practically as long to cook as 
raw meat. 

Browned Tongue. 

For example, take half a dozen slices of 
cooked tongue, spread on each of them a 
modicum of made mustard, and let each 
slice repose for about two minutes in a little 
bath of salad oil (about enough to cover the 
bottom of a soup plate). Put the slices one 
on top of another until they make a compact 
little heap. Put the heap of tongue between 
two plates, so as to expel the superfluous oil. 
Let it remain thus for half an hour. Then 
put a nutmeg of butter in the blazer, dis- 
member the heap of tongue, and put the 
slices into the frizzling butter and turn them 
until they are brown. A little sauce, Wor- 
cester, Robert, or Piquant, may be added to 



32 THE CHAFING DISH 

suit individual taste. Serve very hot, with 
sippets of toast. 

I have ventured to christen this dish 
'Browned 'Tongue, which is simple and descrip- 
tive, but every Chafist is entitled to call it 
what he likes. There is little, if any, 
copyright in Chafing-Dish titles, Alexandre 
Dumas, author and cook, protests against the 
mishandling of names : " Les fantaisies de 
saucer, de mettre sur le gril, et de faire rotir 
nos grands hornmes." 

Personally I object to cooking simple fare 
and then dubbing it a la Quelque chose. Out- 
side the few score well-known, and, so to say, 
classic titles of more or less elaborate dishes, 
which are practically standardised, there seems 
to me to be no reason to invent riddles in 
nomenclature when the " short title," as they 
say in ParUamentary Bills, is amply descrip- 
tive. 

It has been my ill-fortune to be introduced, 
at an otherwise harmless suburban dinner, to 
a catastrophe of cutlets, garnished with 
tinned vegetables, and to be gravely informed, 
on an ill-spelt menu, that it was " Cutelletes 
d' Agneau a la Jardinnier" which would be 



PRELIMINARIES 33 

ludicrous, were it not sad. Then how often 
does the kind hostess, without a punitive 
thought in her composition, write down 
Soufflet when she means Souffli ? 

But mistakes are easily made, as witness 
that popular sign of a French cabaret, particu- 
larly in the provinces, Ju Lion d'Or. If you 
look carefully at the signboard, you will find 
a man asleep, the punning name of the hotel 
implying tAu lit on dort. 

But the whole question of Menus (Bills of 
Fare, if you please), and their mistranslation, 
is too vast to enter upon here, alluring though 
the subject may be. The language of the 
restaurant cook, save in especial instances, is 
as bad, although in a quite different sense, as 
that of the Whitechapel Hooligan. At the 
same time, it is absurd to insist upon the 
literal translation of the untranslatable. 
" Out of works " for " Hors d'oeuvres " ; 
" Soup at the good woman " for " Potage i 
la bonne femme " ; " Smile of a calf at the 
banker's wife " for " Ris de veau a la finan- 
ciere " ; and, lastly, " Anchovies on the sofa " 
for " Anchois sur canap6," are all well enough 
in their way, but hardly an example to be 



34 THE CHAFING DISH 

followed, although they make "very pretty 
patriotic eating." 

It would be ridiculous to run away with 
the idea that because certain folk misuse the 
language, French should be henceforward 
taboo at our dinner-tables. Such a notion is 
ignorant and impossible. But the Gallic 
tongue should be used with discretion and 
knowledge, and if the enterprising Chafist 
invent a new dish of eggs, there is no law to 
forbid his naming it CEufs a la "Temple du 
Milieu. It would only show the quality of 
his erudition and his taste. There seems no 
particular reason why we should not replace 
Rati by Roast, Entrie by Remove, and 
Entremet by Sweet — except that it is not 
done ; it is an affectation of humbug, of 
course, but the greatest humbug of all hum- 
bugs is the pretending to despise humbug. 

Alderman's Walk. 

On revient toujours a son premier moufon — that 
is to say, let us get back to Chaffinda. The 
next dish on the experimental programme is 
" The Alderman's Walkj" a very old English 



PRELIMINARIES 35 

delicacy, the most exquisite portion of the 
most exquisite joint in Cookerydom, and 
so called because, at City dinners of our 
grandfathers' times, it is alleged to have been 
reserved for the Aldermen. It is none other 
than the first, longest and juiciest longitudinal 
slice, next to the bone, of a succulent saddle 
of mutton. Southdown for choice, and four 
years old at that, though this age is rare. 
Remove this slice tenderly and with due 
reverence from the hot joint, lay it aside on 
a slice of bread, its own length, and let it get 
cold, thoroughly cold. Then prepare in the 
Chafing Dish a sauce composed of a walnut 
of butter, a teaspoon of Worcester, three 
drops of Tabasco, three chopped chives, and 
an eggspoon of made mustard. Stir these 
ingredients until the amalgamation is smooth 
and complete. Then take the bread, which 
should have absorbed a good deal of the juice 
from under the Alderman's Walk, cut it into 
strips, and lightly toast the strips. Drop the 
meat into the sauce, and let it cook for eight 
minutes, turning it once, that is, four minutes 
for each side. Slide it out on to a hot dish, 
put the toast round it, eat it in a hurry, and 



36 THE CHAFING DISH 

thank your stars that you are alive to enjoy 
it. This is a dish which has few equals and 
no superiors. It is simple, innocent, tooth- 
some, satisfying, and several other things. t 

Something like it, but lacking its artistic j 
severity, may be found in Alexandre Dumas' , 
Great Dictionary, but it is complicated with 
eccentric accessories ; there is a turbulent 
confused foreground to it which effectually 
conceals the mutton, but then, of course, poor 
Dumas, although he knew and appreciated, 
could rarely obtain the real Southdown. 

At the time that the great author was over- 
whelmed with commissions for novels, after the 
enormous success of "The Three Musketeers" 
and other masterpieces, he was commonly 
understood to put books in the market which 
were written by Auguste Maquet, and merely 
signed by himself. Dumas, as is weU known, 
was a great amateur cook, and in fact prided 
himself more on his dishes than on his novels. 
One day he invited the famous Aurelien SchoU 
to dinner, and put before him a salmon 
aymonnaise which he — Dumas P^re — had 
made with his own hands. " Taste that, 
Scholl," he said, " and tell me how you 
like it," 



PRELIMINARIES 37 

SchoU tasted it and made a wry face. 
" Really, Dumas," he replied, " I think it 
must be by Maquet." 

Having been thus trained by the recipes 
here given, it seems reasonable to suppose 
that the Chafist is able, after a profound 
study thereof, to appreciate the possibilities of 
the Chafing Dish, and may therefore be per- 
mitted to dip as he listeth into the various 
recipes which follow, none of which are com- 
plicated or expensive, and most of which 
require little, if any, previous preparation. 
At the same time I would most earnestly beg 
the Chafist carefully to rehearse all his 
impromptu eiFects, and never to leave anything 
to chance. Always have your condiments, 
your garnishings, your " fixings," as the 
Americans say, ready to hand. Let the 
manipulation of the Chafing Dish partake of 
that Art which conceals Art — simply because 
everything is foreseen, and nothing postponed 
till the last moment. Let your parsley be 
ready chopped, your toast ready cut, your 
lemon duly cleaned, your spare dishes hot and 
ready, and, lastly, your apparatus in thorough 
working order. You may then proceed in 
all good faith and earnestness. 



<^^-^m 


.c^^ 


^ 


. 


( ^^^M 


^^p 


/ 


f^m 




i /^ 


^f 


^^ 


Wm 


y'\^y (X^ 


i'. 


„^^^^v 


' m' 


t \ «.^(<. 


^^ 


rS^^T!^.. .._ 



" Soup is to a dinner what a portico is to a palace, 
x)r an overture to an opera." 

Grimod de la Reyni^rb. 

" While there's life there's soup," said an 
irreverent parodist, but as a matter of fact 
the reverse of the proverb would be more 
true, for, of a verity, while there's soup 
there's life. There can be no complaint of 
having dined badly, or even insufficiently, 
if one has begun with a plateful of good 
soup ; good, mind you, with some strength 
and body to it, for the coloured hot water 
that masquerades too often as soup is un- 
worthy and despicable. But soup that has 
character, individuality, and belies not its 
name, is to the nice eater almost a meal in 
itself. 



SOUPS 39 

There are practically no soups beyond the 
scope of the Chafing Dish, albeit some of the 
more elaborate bisques, a bouillabaisse (an that 
be a soup), and a pink Bortsch, have not come 
within my experimental experience. The 
ordinary French consomme, which may be 
likened to our gravy soup, is practically the 
foundation of most clear soups. One meets 
on different bills of fare with a score of varia- 
tions on the theme, such as Printanier, 
Brunoise, Paysanne, Julienne, Mitonnage, 
Croute au Pot, Faubonne, Mac^doine, Chif- 
fonade, Flamande, and many more, but they 
are really only a matter of flavouring and 
vegetable decoration upon a foundation of 
good stock. An old French cookbook, 
dated 1822, lies before me, which contains 
one hundred and two recipes for soups, 
but the first one mentioned, the Potage au 
Naturel, is the Mother Soup of all the rest. 

The veritable chef has his store of Mother 
Soup, and that is his kitchen Stock Exchange 
whence practically all his varieties emanate. 

The Chafing Dish votary cannot construct 
his own Mother Soup and keep up his own 
stock-pot, but he can use the many excellent 



40 THE CHAFING DISH 

preserved soups, in bottles and boxes, which 
nowadays are absolutely equal to those which 
are self-manipulated or home-made. 

I have tried many brands, and really think 
that there is not very much to choose be- 
tween them. For ordinary use I lean to the 
Maggi preparations, the " Cross-Star Soups." 
They are in tablets, each sufficient for two 
persons, and the White Haricots, Onion, 
Tapioca, Chervil, Sago, Semolina, Lentil, 
Parmentier, Sorrel, Barley, Rice and Julienne 
are quite excellent. 

The method of procedure is simplicity 
itself. The tablet is broken into fragments in 
a cup or a bowl and mixed into a thin paste 
with a little cold water. Then heat a pint of 
water in the Chafer to boiling, pour in the 
mixture, and let it cook gently, not boiling, 
for fifteen to twenty minutes. Each tablet 
has its own particular directions on the 
wrapper, and I have found that they apply 
equally to the Chafing Dish, except that the 
time required is rather shorter than that 
mentioned, owing to the greater heat. The 
flavour of the soups can be enhanced by a 
few drops of sauce, a sprinkling of Paprika 



SOUPS 41 

pepper, half a wineglass of sherry, or a dash 
of Tabasco ; but this is a matter of individual 
taste. The tapioca, sago, and semolina soups 
are particularly good, and I do not find that 
they require the addition of any salt, although 
this again is a purely personal affair. A 
beaten-up raw egg put into the soup and 
well stirred up just before serving, makes 
it richer and suaver, but is by no means 
necessary. 

By the way, in cooking soups, as indeed in 
all Chafing-Dish cookery, I cannot too 
earnestly insist upon the use of wooden 
spoons for all stirring manipulations. Metal 
spoons, even silver, are abhorrent to the 
good cook. Wooden spoons are clean, cheap, 
and thoroughly efficient. The fancy-dress- 
ball cook (" Cordong blew " he generally 
calls himself) always wears one in his apron, 
but if he only knew it, the wooden spoon 
(apart from examination awards) is his surest 
title to honour as a true maitre de bouche. 
The Spanish Estudiantina also wear a wooden 
spoon in their black tricorne hats, but this, I 
understand, only means that they are poor 
and hungry, and glad to dip their spoon in 



42 THE CHAFING DISH 

any one's mess of Puchero, in order to enjoy a 
square meal. 

Pea Soup. 

Pea soup is a great invention. Not the Purie 
aux Petits Pais (good as that may be) of the 
chefiest of chefs, but the plain, good, thick, 
flavoursome pea soup which is as nourishing 
as it is soothing and satisfying. I find that 
Chaffinda's favourite is Brand's Consolidated 
Pea Soup, which sounds like a gold mine, but 
is really a sort of Erbswurst, only better. It 
is sold in dainty little tins at an absurdly cheap 
price. One little tin makes two good plates- 
ful. It is prepared by mixing the contents to 
a thick paste with water. To this paste add 
a pint of cold water, put it all in the Chafing 
Dish, and boil it for about twelve to fifteen 
minutes until it gets thick. To make it even 
better, add a sprinkling of dried mint and a 
handful of toast dice, browned with butter, 
and you have a feast for hungry gods on a 
cold day. 

Another way : instead of using mint and 
toast, cut half a dozen thin slices from a 



Soups 43 

Brunswick sausage, peel off the rind and drop 
them in the soup when it is half cooked. The 
mixture is very toothsome. 



Turtle Soup. 

From small things to great : from the 
common and strictly garden pea to the Alder- 
manic and luscious turtle. Most turtle im- 
porters make their own preserved turtle, 
which is sometimes good and always expensive. 
For Chafing-Dish purposes I prefer the Con- 
crete Turtle Tablets made by Levien and 
Sherlock, of 68 Harbour Street, Kingston, 
Jamaica. They are to be had at the Army 
and Navy Stores. Each little cake is enough 
for two moderately greedy people, and costs 
one shilling. 

Put in the Chafing Dish a good pint of 
water, which bring to the boil ; add salt and 
pepper (Paprika for choice) to taste. Cut 
the turtle tablet into pieces, or if it is too 
hard, as is often the case in winter, break It 
up into eight or ten lumps. Throw these 
into the boiling water and keep on stirring 
until they dissolve and the soup becomes 



44 THE CHAFING DISH 

clear. This takes some little time, but it is 
worth waiting for. Add a squeeze of lemon 
juice, a wine-glass of sherry, and a teaspoon 
of Worcester sauce. Give a final stir to these 
ingredients, and serve it up steaming hot. 

There is extraordinary reviving power about 
a basin of good turtle soup, and, as I think I 
have shown, it is quite a mistake to deem it an 
expensive luxury. Abraham Hay ward, Q.C., 
in his inimitable book, " The Art of Dining," 
which were originally Quarterly Review 
articles on Police Magistrate Walker's 
"Original" (1835), says that "Turtle Soup 
from Painter's in Leadenhall Street is de- 
cidedly the best thing in the shape of soup 
that can be had In this or perhaps in any 
other country." And if an Alderman, a 
Queen's Counsel, a Police Magistrate — and 
Chaffinda — agree on this point, who shall say 
them nay .'' 

The student of mid-Victorian ballads will 
remember, too, the touching allusion to turtle 
soup in " Ferdinando and Elvira," by one 
Bab, where the hero searches for the cracker- 
motto poet, and at last unearths him at a con- 
fectioner's where he has ordered soup : 



SOUPS 45 

" ' Found at last ! ' I madly shouted. * Gentle 
pieman, you astound me ! ' 
Then I waved the turtle soup enthusiastically 
round me." 

But this was, on reflection, probably mock 
turtle soup, no bad thing either, vide Alice's 
interview with the Gryphon. It lives, when 
cold, in a basin, and is set hard and is there- 
fore wavable. 

American soups are not to be despised. 
On the contrary, they make most excellent good 
eating — or drinking ; which is it .'' do we eat 
or drink soup ? An American book of 
etiquette says, " Never chew your soup, 
always swallow it whole." 

Anyhow I have tried, and found good, Clam 
Chowder, Clam Broth, Chicken Gumbo, Okra. 
Terrapin, and Vegetable Soups. They are in 
tins, against which I confess I am prejudiced, 
but as yet I am totally unpoisoned, and I am 
told that there is a possibility of their being 
shortly put up in bottles. Each tin has full 
instructions, and these are quite applicable to 
the Chafing Dish, care always being taken not 
to boil the soup, but to heat it gently and 
continuously. The Clam Chowder and Clam 



46 THE CHAFING DISH 

Broth are both quite excellent, of a distinct 
individual flavour, cheering, and, I opine, 
wholesome. They have a peculiar cachet of 
their own, and lend a certain Transatlantic 
originality to an otherwise banal Chafing- 
Dish luncheon. 

These and other American provisions I 
procure from Jackson's in Piccadilly. They 
are well "packed," and adapt themselves 
excellently to unexpected calls on a limited 
larder. Their variety is infinite, and their 
flavour remains good and true. Tinned 
Broadway in London is a pleasant experience. 
There are other American delicacies, to 
which reference will be made in due 
course, which adapt themselves admirably 
to Chafing-Dish idiosyncrasies. Columbus' 
patent egg is not the only culinary innova- 
tion from the New World, but the average 
British cook is so ignorantly conservative 
and abhorrently Chauvinistic that she dreads 
novelty as she dreads the Devil. 

Poor Man's Soup. 

Poor Man's Soup, as the French call it, is 



SOUPS 47 

a very restorative dish after a bad day on the 
Stock Exchange, although there is little of 
the Poor Man about it save the name. 

Put a finely- shredded onion and a walnut 
of butter in the Chafing Dish and fry to a 
light brown colour, then add a heaped tea- 
spoonful of flour and stir well ; pour in a 
pint of stock, add pepper and salt to taste. 
Peel and slice a potato and scatter it in the 
soup ; let the mixture come to a boil, and 
then allow it to simmer for ten minutes. 
Just before serving stir into it the yolk of an 
egg, well beaten up, and a dozen sippets of 
dry toast. This is a soothing and easy soup, 
but it requires the stockpot, unless you make 
use of one of the many varieties of concen- 
trated bouillon or beef-tea, which certainly 
save a lot of trouble. 

Palestine Soup. 

Another simple soup, which moreover has 
the advantage of not requiring stock, is 
Palestine or Jerusalem Artichoke soup. By 
the way, we misname this vegetable strangely. 
It was imported into Great Britain from 



48 THE CHAFING DISH 

Italy, and being the tuber of a variety of 
sunflower, is there termed Girasole, because 
the flower turns to the sun. We, in our 
insular ignorance, corrupted Girasole to 
Jerusalem, and then, wishing to refine the 
latter word, committed a further solecism by 
calling the soup made therefrom Palestine 
soup. Could any little exercise in culinary ety- 
mology be more ridiculous, or more typical ? 
Pick out six good-sized Jerusalem arti- 
chokes, boil them in the Chafing Dish with a 
pinch of salt ; when quite soft, put them 
through a fine sieve and place the extract on 
one side. Then put a pint of milk in the 
dish and boil it with a teaspoonful of Paprika 
pepper, two cloves and a dash of nutmeg, and 
a couple of sprigs of parsley. Let it boil up 
for a minute and then strain it, and also put 
it aside. Melt a walnut of butter in the dish 
and stir into it a dessert-spoonful of corn- 
flour, to which add the strained milk, and, 
lastly, the artichoke extract, keeping the spirit- 
lamp flame low, so that the mixture shall not 
boil. When it has simmered for five minutes 
and become thoroughly amalgamated the 
soup is ready to serve, and very good it is, 



SOUPS 49 

or ought to be, if the cooking has been 
artfully and carefully carried out. 



Creqy (Carrot) Soup. 

Carrot Soup is not only excessively nice 
and nourishing, but it has also a curious 
historical interest. The best French carrots 
come from the neighbourhood of Cregy, and 
Carrot Soup is therefore generally known as 
Cregy Soup. Now the famous battle of that 
name, where Edward the Black Prince won 
his three-feather badge and motto of Ich 
Dien, was fought on Saturday, August 26, 
1346, and Court gossip relates that to this 
day the Prince of Wales has Cre^y Soup for 
dinner every 26th of August. I am unable 
to verify the statement, but trust that it may 
be true ; anyway it is a pretty fable. 

To make Carrot Soup, cut up three or 
four fair-sized carrots into thin round slices, 
put them in the Chafing Dish with a wine- 
glass of sherry, two cloves, a sprinkling of 
nutmeg, and a good bunch of parsley ; pour 
over it a cupful of stock and let it nearly 
boil, but not quite. When the carrots are 

D 



so THE CHAFING DISH 

quite soft and almost pulpy, mash them well 
in a soup-plate and, discarding anything hard 
in the mixture, replace it in the Chafer with 
two more cups of stock, a teaspoon of sugar, 
and just before it boils drop in a walnut of 
butter, and take it off the flame. Toasted 
dice are the usual accompaniment, and the 
soup, if well concocted, is very hard to beat 
for honest, toothsome fare. 

The menus of three Buckingham Palace 
dinners tell me that his Majesty the King 
partook of Bisque d'Ecrevisse on May 30, 
1902, of Clear Turtle or Cold Consommd on 
June 2, and of Consomm6 Riche on June 13. 
The second of these quotations is from the 
interesting programme of the fare offered to 
the members of the Jockey Club at the 
King's Derby Dinner, one item of which was 
Cassolettes k la Jockey Club, presumably a 
creation of his Majesty's chef, Monsieur 
Manager. 

President Loubet was less lucky when he 
went on his visit to Algiers in April 1903. 
After a review of ten thousand native horse- 
men at Krieder, he was tendered a native 
banquet by the chiefs, which began with 



SOUPS 51 

Locust Soup. But even this is not so un- 
appetising as the recipe of a Monsieur Dagin, 
an entomologist, for Cockroach Soup. It is 
made thus : " Pound your cockroaches in a 
mortar ; put them in a sieve and pour In 
boiling water or beef-stock. Connoisseurs 
prefer this to real bisque." Possibly ; but I 
do not recommend it for the Chafing Dish. 

On the other hand, real bird's-nest soup is 
a great luxury. As Consomm6 aux Nids 
d'Hirondelles it occasionally appears on a 
menu ; and the Chinese, I understand, call it 
Yen-War-Gung. There is a subtle taste of 
the sea in the gelatinous lining of the swallow's 
nest, which is exquisite and delicate. The 
Japanese make a soup from black seaweed, 
but I cannot speak of it from experience. 
There lies before me a curious Latin menu 
of a feast given by, or to, certain German 
professors whose culinary Latin seems to me 
to be a trifle canine. Two lines of it read 
"Sorbitio cum globulis jecoralibus et lucan- 
icisj" and " Jus et linguis bovinis factum 
cum panificio." These I take to mean liver 
soup with sausage, and ox-tongue soup 
with bread. 



52 THE CHAFING DISH 

But esoteric food-stufis are more interesting 
for their quaintness than for any intrinsic 
merit, and I prefer to turn to the degusta- 
tion of a Potage Germiny, for instance. This 
is the invention of the great Casimir, of the 
Maison d'Or, who has placed it on record 
that " the happiest day of my life was the 
day on which I invented the Potage Ger- 
miny. It is made of sorrel, the yolks of 
eggs, and cream. It was for a dinner given 
by the IVIarquis de Saint- Georges, the author 
of ' Les Mousquetaires de la Reine.' I had 
racked my brains to discover something 
wonderful, unique ; and finally I evolved the 
potage. When the Marquis had tasted it 
he sent for me. I never saw a man more 
moved. He threw his arms around me 
and exclaimed in unutterable accents : 
' Casimir, this is not a soup ; it is a master- 
piece ! ' " 

This is a veritable human document. 

William the Conqueror had a cook called 
Tezelin, who one day served him with a 
white soup called Dillegrout. His Majesty 
was so pleased that he made Tezelin Lord 
of the Manor of Addington. Good cooks 



SOUPS 53 

were appreciated thenadays. But we have 
lost the recipe for DlUegrout. 

Attempts have often been made to cook 
according to ancient recipes, but rarely with 
success. The curious in these matters may 
be referred to Smollett's observations in 
" Peregrine Pickle " on certain experiments 
to cook practically according to the recipes 
of Apicius. They ended disastrously. 

A last word on soup. The French cuisine 
bourgeoise (the best in the world) believes 
in good strong meat for its soups, and not, 
as we erroneously suppose, makes shift — and 
good shift too — out of any odds and ends ; 
" any old thing," as the Americans say. On 
the contrary, four faire sourire le pot-au-feu 
(delightful expression !) you must have good 
material, and plenty of it. 





" In a restaurant, when a waiter ofFers you turbot, 
ask for salmon, and when he ofFers you a sole, 
order a mackerel ; as language to man, so fish 
has been given to the waiter to disguise his 

thoughts." P. Z. DiDSBURY. 

The fish of Great Britain is, beyond all 
manner of doubt, the very best in the world. 
It is, therefore, only right and proper that 
its original flavour should be preserved by 
simply boiling or frying it, and eating it with 
what some of the old cook-books call its 
" Analogies," which presumably means its 
traditional accompaniments : lemon, brown 
bread and butter, and so much as may be 
of its own liquor, or a Court Bouillon of 
the simplest. There are so many ways of 
spoiling fish that the Chafer can never go 



FISH 55 

far wrong if he rejects all but the most 
primitive, although it is not necessary to 
revert to the aboriginal braising upon the 
hot ashes of a nearly extinct wood fire, 
without the intervention of any implement 
of stone or earthenware whatever. This 
method is, however, still in practice to-day 
in many parts of Portugal (and possibly 
elsewhere) before the doors of the houses 
of the wage-earners, and in the taverns of 
the commoner folks. 

Without going to extremes, there is a 
decent self-respecting kind of cookery, to the 
value and charm of which the great Car6me 
refers in his " Cuisinier Frangais" (1828), 
and which he calls, appropriately enough, k 
genre male et elegant. 

The genius of Car6me, however, occasion- 
ally led him to a state of self-appreciation 
which is supreme in its bathos. He says, 
for instance, in a kind of retrospect of his 
contributions to the culinary art : "I con- 
templated from behind my ovens the kitchens 
of India, China, Egypt, Greece, Turkey, 
Italy, Germany and Switzerland, and I felt 
their ignoble fabric of routine crumbling 



56 THE CHAFING DISH 

under my critical blows." These are, indeed, 
" prave 'orts ! " 

Herrings are extraordinarily healthy — and 
cheap. They are caught by the million — 
who also eat them ; and whether fresh or 
dried, raw or salted, they are one of Nature's 
delicacies. Fresh herrings offer the largest 
amount of nutriment for one penny of any 
kind of animal food. A fresh herring 
weighing 4.^ ozs. contains 240 grains ot 
carbon and 36 grains of nitrogen; and a 
dried herring weighing 3 oz. contains 269 
grains of carbon and 41 griins of nitrogen. 
It is obvious by this what smoking will 
do by decreasing weight and increasing 
nutriment. 

Red herrings are by no means to be 
despised, though it is a mistake to imagine 
that they are caught in a state of redness. 
In that fine old book, "The Yarmouth 
Fisherman," which is not much read nowa- 
days, piscator says to the tourist : " Sir, we 
lay ourselves out to oblige all the gents that 
come from London, but we cannot make a 
red herring swim." 

Thereanent is a quaint signboard outside 



FISH 57 

the SchifFerhaus in the old Hanseatic town 
of Liibeck, one of the most beautiful taverns 
in the world, and the haunt of old sea-dogs 
since the sixteenth century. The signboard 
represents a fisherman and two amateurs 
angling from a boat ; the former has caught 
a fine kipper and the latter are looking 
supremely disgusted. The legend under the 
picture runs : " One Cannot Please Every- 
body." 

Kippers and their kin have never lacked 
admirers, and it is on record that the 
Emperor Charles V. made a pilgrimage to 
the tomb of the venerable Dutchman who is 
supposed to have invented pickled herrings. 

Fried Herrings. 

To come from herrings in the abstract to 
herrings in the concrete, try this in Chaffinda: 
Two very fresh herrings, very clean and dry. 
Fry them in three tablespoons of oil or two 
of butter, with a squeeze of lemon, salt, 
pepper, six peppercorns and a tablespoon of 
vinegar. After they have cooked for eight 
minutes put the fish aside in a hot dish. 



58 THE CHAFING DISH 

Then cut a good-sized Spanish onion into 
rings, fry these in the oil left by the herrings 
till they are of a dark brown colour, taking 
great care not to burn them. When ready, 
which should be in about six minutes, heap 
them round the herrings and serve with 
quarters of lemon. This is a lordly dish, 
and if properly concocted it leaves you in 
that state that you will love all mankind — 
and even tolerate the Chinese. 

Dean Nowell, or Noel, a clerical Izaak 
Walton, and Dean of St. Paul's (i 507-1602) 
said that the only thing wrong with the 
herring was that it preferred the sea to the 
river. The Dean angled much in the Ash 
at Hadham ; he wrote the Church Catechism, 
invented bottled beer (by accident), and 
fished for perch and souls. Peace be to 
his! 

There are as many ways of cooking the 
herring as there are days in the year ; even 
Bismarck invented one, but there are other 
fish in the sea which demand Chaffinda's 
attention, and however enticing the subject 
may be, it will not do to linger over it. 

The lordly salmon was not always so 



FISH 59 

honoured in its exclusiveness as it is to-day. 
In our grandfathers' time it was still fre- 
quenting the Thames, and London servants, 
when engaged, used to stipulate that they 
were not to be fed on it more than twice a 
week. 

Chafed Salmon. 

This is as good a way as any of treating 
the salmon in the Chafing Dish: 

Put two tablespoonsful of butter in the 
pan and when it is melting stir in gradually 
a tablespoon of flour, and keep on stirring 
till it is smooth ; add a wineglass of water, 
the juice of a whole lemon, a small onion 
cut in rings, and the yolks of two eggs, hard- 
boiled and mashed up. When all these 
ingredients are well mixed, put in a thick 
slice of previously boiled cold salmon, 
simmer it for eight minutes. Tinned 
salmon, of the very best brands only, may 
also be used, and the result is fairly satis- 
factory, but tinned goods are of course only 
a pis alter at best. 

They do say that the Devil never goes to 



6o THE CHAFING DISH 

Cornwall because they put everything into a 
pie down there, and he is afraid he might be 
put into one too. I heard of Stargazer Pie 
in Cornwall, and imagined that it referred to 
the Riviera fish which is not succulent — 
indeed, barely edible. But I learned that 
Stargazer Pie is really Pilchard Pie, the 
heads of the fish popping up through the 
crust. 



Cod Pudding. 

A good Cornish way of cooking cod is to 
make a pudding of it, which is quite chafFable. 
Use a thick slice of cold cooked cod- Remove 
skin and bones and flake it up smallish with 
a couple of forks. Put it in the Chafing 
Dish with two tablespoons of butter and one 
of chopped onions ; hot it up, and whilst 
heating (lower the flame before actual boiling) 
add gradually enough milk to make the fish 
of the consistency of mashed potatoes ; add 
pepper and salt, and serve it with sippets of 
toast. It will like you much. 



FISH 61 

Souchet of Sprats. 

Now for sprats ; a good supper dish, and 
eke for breakfast too, because they are so fat 
that no butter or oil is required, but plenty 
of salt and pepper. Buy a pint of fresh 
sprats, soak and dry them very carefully, 
handling them as little as possible. Cook 
them as a water souchet or Zootje, an old 
Dutch method, formerly much honoured at 
Greenwich fish dinners, and originally made 
of flounders. But flounders are not con- 
venient for a Chafing Dish, so you must per- 
force fall back on sprats. Don't slip ! 

Cut off^ the heads and tails of the sprats 
and put them into the pan with a cupful of 
thin bouillon, three sprigs of parsley, half a 
sliced carrot, and plenty of salt and pepper. 
Let this boil up for ten minutes. Take it 
ofi^ ; strain the liquor, return the fish to the 
pan with three more sprigs of parsley and 
another sliced half carrot. Boil up again for 
five minutes this time. A squeeze of lemon 
and a glass of sherry to be added just before 
serving, of course with the sauce round the 
fish. 



62 THE CHAFING DISH 

It has always been said, although it is 
scarcely provable, that fish, owing to the 
phosphorus, is good as a brainmaker. A 
visitor at a Devonshire fishing village asked 
the parson what was the principal diet of the 
villagers. " Fish mostly," said the Vicar. 
" But I thought fish was a brain food, and 
these are the most unintelligent folk I ever 
saw," remarked the tourist. " Well," replied 
the parson, "just think what they would look 
like if they didn't eat fish ! " 

In America the lobster is a frequent victim 
of the Chafing Dish, and there are many and 
diverse ways of torturing his succulent flesh 
therein. I will give three recipes of a more 
simple nature, all of which have been tried 
and proven not guilty of indigestion. I 
should premise, however, that to my individual 
taste a lobster is only really good in two ways. 
First, plain boiled and eaten cold with a 
vinaigrette sauce ; and, secondly, as a simple 
salad with lettuce and perchance, a stray 
tomato. However, there may be others with 
different tastes, and to such I commend the 
following : 



FISH 63 

Buttered Lobster. 

First, Buttered Lobster. Beat up two 
egg yolks with two tablespoons of butter 
until it makes a smooth cream ; add a wine- 
glass of milk or cream, a pinch of black 
pepper, and half a teaspoon of Paprika. Put 
it in the Chafing Dish with the meat of a 
lobster cut into inch pieces, add the coral. 
Let it simmer for ten minutes, keeping the 
flame well under control. 

Polly Lobster. 

The next recipe is called Polly Lobster, and 
It is toothsome. Cut up the lobster into inch 
lumps, put it in the dish with two or three 
tablespoons of salad oil, according to its size ; 
add three or four whole onions, a small bunch 
of chives, pepper and salt, a wineglass of 
sherry, and three quartered tomatoes. Let 
it boil up for a couple of minutes, squeeze 
a lemon over it, and serve. 



64 THE CHAFING DISH 

Flattered Lobster. 

The last variation on the lobster theme is 
somewhat elaborate. It is termed Flattered 
Lobster, the reason being, I opine, because of 
the many added attractions to the crustacean's 
native simplicity. It is not quite orthodox 
perhaps, but extraordinarily nice. Cut up 
the meat of a large lobster into cubes. Make 
a mixture of t\i^o tablespoons of Worcester 
sauce, the same of vinegar, a wineglass of 
claret, a dessertspoon of made mustard 
(French for choice), salt and Paprika to taste. 
Put the lobster in the Chafer and pour the 
mixture over it, adding a tablespoon of butter 
and the like of flour. Let it all heat up 
gently and slowly ; that is, begin with a fuU 
flame and reduce after five minutes. Then 
pour in a liqueur glass of brandy, and heat it 
up again with full flame for eight minutes, stir- 
ring it all the time. The result is surprising. 

A fish story which is not without charm is 
told of a seaside village school of very rough 
fishing lads. The teacher gave them this sum 
to do : " If two herrings cost three half- 
pence, what would thirty cost ? " After ten 



FISH 65 

minutes' hard work he noticed one of the 
boys had filled his copy-book full of figures. 
" Well, Jim, what's your answer ? " " Please, 
teacher, 'alf a crown." " Wrong, Jim, try 

again. If two herrings " " Wait a bit, 

teacher," the lad interrupted, " 'errings you 
'said. 'Ow silly of me; I was a-reckoning 
of 'em like 'addocks." 

Prawns lend themselves most kindly to 
Chafing-Dish cookery, and can be treated in 
sundry appetising ways. Fresh prawns are 
of course quite the best, but the Barataria 
canned article is not to be despised, if they be 
carefully washed before using ; and there are 
one or two brands of bottled prawns which 
cook excellently. 

Digestive Prawns. 

Shell two dozen prawns, put them in the 
Chafing Dish with half a pint of milk, half a 
teaspoon of Paprika, a pinch of salt, and a 
sprinkling of nutmeg. Keep stirring till near 
boiling-point, then lower the flame ; add a 
glass of sherry and two beaten eggs ; simmer 
for eight minutes, and then serve on toast. 

£ 



66 THE CHAFING DISH 

Prawn Wiggle. 

The next is an American recipe and 
rejoices in the name of Prawn Wiggle. 
Melt three tablespoons of butter in the dish, 
and two tablespoons of flour mixed with a 
teaspoon of salt and a good pinch of pepper. 
Stir up and then pour in gradually half a pint 
of milk. As soon as the sauce thickens add 
a cupful of prawns and a cupful of cold 
cooked green peas. Mix up well and simmer 
for eight minutes. The pink and green form 
a delightsome colour blend, suggesting certain 
well-known racing colours, and the combined 
flavours are most delicate. But why "wiggle" ? 
Well, why not ? 

Prawns on the Grass. 

Prawns on the Grass is recommendable, 
easy, and decorative for the supper-table. 
Butter lightly the bottom of the Chafing 
Dish, half fill it with carefully prepared 
cooked cold spinach ; on this put a dozen 
prawns, two eggs, hard-boiled and cut in 
quarters ; arrange these symmetrically, add 



FISH 67 

pepper, salt, and a cupful of milk. Cover up 
and let it simmer steadily for ten to twelve 
minutes. Serve in the Chafing Dish with 
sippets of toast. 

It is impossible to treat here of the delect- 
able crayfish, crawfish, and langouste ; they 
are all cookable and easily digested. Best of 
all, perhaps, are the Oder Krebse, and the 
Swedish Kraftor, with their delightful and 
unique flavour and sweetness, but they must 
be eaten near where they are born in order 
to be appreciated. 

In the company of chaste ChafHnda it is 
easy to enjoy a maigre day, for she deals so 
delicately with fish that one is almost tempted 
to envy the days of " Cecil's Fast." It will 
be remembered that Lord Burleigh introduced 
a Bill to enjoin the eating of fish only on 
certain days, on all creeds alike, in order to 
restore the fish trade. 

It would be highly improper to devote a 
chapter to fish without referring to Vatel 
committing suicide on his sword (or was it a 
skewer .?), but the story is as stale as the fish 
would be when it did arrive after all. A 
century ago his memory was rather painfully 



68 THE CHAFING DISH 

honoured by roasted slices of cod on a spit, 
the dish being called a la Vatel. 

To many worthy folk, painters in particular, 
the magic word trout immediately suggests 
Varnishing Day at the Paris Salon, and 
dijeuner at Ledoyen's, Trout with green 
sauce is the staple traditional dish of the day, 
A couple of years ago I had the curiosity to 
inquire how much was eaten, and the maitre 
d" hotel ^ZM& me the following figures: 250 
lbs. of trout ; 1 5 gallons of green sauce ; 
1 20 chickens; 80 ducks; 40 saddles of lamb ; 
170 bundles of asparagus ; and 100 baskets 
of strawberries. Besides this, the usual 
thousand and one odds and ends of a miscel- 
laneous carte du jour. Painters have pro- 
verbially good appetites. 

Oysters. 

Purposely, and of malice ■prepense, I am 
carefully omitting all mention of the cooking 
of oysters in any shape or form. I consider 
it nefaste — almost sacrilegious. Our natives 
are so exquisitely succulent, so absolutely 
perfect in their delicacy, that to paint the lily 



FISH 69 

or to gild refined gold were pickaninny pec- 
cadilloes compared to the cooking of the 
oyster. It is different, I believe, in the 
United States of America, where there are 
various kinds of oysters, some requiring, 
almost demanding, cooking to render them 
palatable. Transatlantic cookery books are 
full of oyster recipes, in many of which the 
true oyster flavour must be entirely obliter- 
ated by the superadded condiments. This 
may be a question of gastronomic supply and 
demand. But my humble Chafing Dish shall 
not be defiled by the torture of the innocent 
bivalve. Dixi I 

Trout in Small Broth. 

To return to trout. The fresh-water fish, 
the darling product of the stream, cannot be 
too respectfully approached, whether from an 
angling or a culinary point of view. Izaac 
Walton, in his inimitable charm and wisdom, 
has much to say thereon. Unfortunately his 
methods are impracticable in a Chafing Dish. 
I find the best way to treat a trout is with a 
Court Bouillon. This is how to make it : 



70 THE CHAFING DISH 

Mix a glass of sherry, a tablespoon of vinegar, 
a glass of water, two bay leaves, a dozen 
peppercorns, a bunch of parsley, a sliced 
onion, and a pinch of salt. Amalgamate 
these materials thoroughly. Have your trout 
well cleaned and dried. Pop him into the 
Chafing Dish and cover him with the Court 
Bouillon. Let it cook slowly but steadily for 
twenty minutes. Then eat it with thanks 
and praise. 

Smothered Turbot. 

Here is a good way of preparing the 
remains of turbot. It is called Smothered 
Turbot, and is founded on an old Hastings 
fishwife's recipe. Butter the inside of the 
Chafing Dish ; spread thereon a layer of 
bread crumbs, chopped mushrooms, parsley, 
cut-up lemon peel, pepper and salt. Break 
up the cold cooked turbot small and make a 
second layer thereof. Add two tablespoons 
of butter, and then another layer the same as 
the first. Heat up and keep at a good heat 
for twelve minutes. Serve it in the Chafing 
Dish. 



FISH 71 

Sardines in a Hurry. 

Sardines are one of the handiest of standbys 
for the Chafist. But get the best brands and 
smallish fish ; the large ones are apt to sug- 
gest pilchards, which, although good in their 
way, are not sardines. 

Sardines in a Hurry are done thusly : Take 
the sardines out of the box carefully on to a 
plate, pour boiling water over them, and 
drain it off at once. Take off all the skin, 
bone them, and cut off the tails. Prepare thin 
strips of hot buttered toast, put a sardine on 
each strip, pepper and salt it, pour over it a 
modicum of plain melted butter and a squeeze 
of lemon juice. Put them into the Chafing 
Dish and hot up for five minutes. 

Waldorf Sardines. 

Another very good if not quite as simple 
a way of preparing them is Waldorf Sardines. 
Pour boiling water over a dozen sardines, 
wiping off the skin with a clean fish-cloth and 
removing the tails. Put them in the Chafing 
Dish with one tablespoon of olive oil and 
heat thoroughly for eight minutes. Put 



72 THE CHAFING DISH 

them aside on a dish and keep them hot. 
Now put another tablespoon of olive oil into 
the pan, and when sizzling add a cupful of 
water. Stir until it gets thick, then add a 
teaspoon of Worcester sauce, half a teaspoon 
of Paprika, and a pinch of salt. Take the 
dish oiF the flame. Add the beaten yolk of 
an egg, one teaspoon of vinegar and the same 
of French mustard. Stir the sauce. Heat 
up the sardines again, and pour the sauce 
over them. As a supper dish, say after a 
Royal Institution lecture, or something 
equally improving, this gives one what the 
late George du Maurier called " a sense of 
genial warmth about the midriff." 

Creamed Smelts. 

A rather more subtle but curiously refined 
concoction is Creamed Smelts. 

Clean and dry a dozen smelts in a cloth. 
Dip them one by one in thick cream, or, 
wanting that, in milk thickened with flour ; 
then dredge them with flour so as to make a 
f)aste coating all over them. Put two table- 
spoons of butter in the Chafing Dish, and 



FISH 73 

when sizzling put in the fish with a squeeze 
of lemon and a glass of sherry. They will 
be ready in eight minutes. Sprinkle fried 
parsley over them before serving. 

The delicate faint perfume ot the smelt 
has been likened to that of the cucumber, 
violets and verbena. It is quite unique 
among fish, and has a charm that is all its 
own. This method of cooking preserves 
this peculiarity. Some other methods do not. 
Avoid buying sand -smelts (Atherines). They 
are very similar to the real thing, but lack 
the characteristic perfume, and they are 
neither as delicate in flavour or taste. 



Kedgeree. 

All Anglo-Indians, and many who have 
never been nearer India than South Ken- 
sington, know the virtues of kedgeree, 
kadgiori, kitchri, kegeree, kitcharee, kitchery, 
or even quitheri. It is spelt and made in 
forty-seven different ways, every one of which 
is strictly authentic, and, according to diiFerent 
authorities, the One and Only way. This is 
Martin Harvey Kedgeree. 



74 THE CHAFING DISH 

Boil two cupfuls of rice, and strain it well. 
Mix in it two chopped cold hard-boiled eggs, 
any cold remains of cooked fish, flaked and 
salted ; add a tablespoon of butter, the same 
of milk, a teaspoon of Paprika, and half a 
teaspoon of salt. Toss it all about in the 
Chafing Dish thoroughly, and then hot it up 
for ten minutes. Squeeze a lemon over it 
just before serving. Kedgeree is by no 
means solely a breakfast dish. It comes in 
handily at all times, but never argue about 
kedgeree with an Anglo-Indian. It is fatal 
to the kedgeree. It gets cold — and then 
vols que cest triste pour vous, as Mephisto- 
pheles sings when he looks at Siebel's 
hand. 

Next to the Indian, the Chinese is one of 
the most inventive cooks in the world. I 
had one once who had been, amongst other 
things, a pirate, a prison-warder, an actor, and 
a judge. He had sudden inspirations, and 
therein lay his weakness. He knew that 
English folk ate jelly with mutton, so he tried 
strawberry jam with eggs and bacon, and 
following the principle of apple sauce with 
goose, he gave me hot cherry brandy with 



FISH 75 

roast fowl. He was a bad cook, but a most 
fluent and ingenious liar. 

The best-flavoured eels are those that come 
from the Thames ; they are much better than 
the Dutch. There are four kinds : the Snig, 
the Grig, the Broadnosed, and the Sharp- 
nosed. The last are the best. Izaak Walton 
says : " It is agreed that the eel is a most 
dainty dish " — and who shall say him nay ? 
The Greeks went further and called it " the 
Helen of the dinner-table," because every 
guest strove, like Paris, to keep it for him- 
self. 

Souchet of Eels. 

To make a water souchet of eels follow the 
directions for sprats, but cut the eels into 
inch chunks, and boil for half as long again 
in each case. Some folks think that eels are 
at their best in a souchet, which has the 
tendency of bringing out the best flavour of 
the fish. 

Jellied eels and stewed eels, both East End 
and racecourse prime favourites, are some- 
what too rich and coarse for any save the 



76 THE CHAFING DISH 

very ravenous, but it is certain that there Is a 
deal of rich, if perhaps somewhat heavy, 
nourishment in the eel, and its meat is a great 
delicacy in any form. 

Nettled Eels. 

Nettled Eels are much esteemed in Nor- 
mandy. They may be prepared in the same 
fashion as water souchet, with the addition of 
a handful of clean washed young nettles, 
which should be cooked with the fish but 
taken out before serving. They give a 
peculiar zest to the dish, which is quite 
pleasant. 

Matelote of Eels. 

The classic form of the eel is as a Matelote, 
originally a marine dish, and quite within 
Chaffinda's compass. Have your eel cut into 
inch-and-a-half lengths, about one pound in 
all ; put a large walnut of butter, or two 
tablespoons of oil in the Chafing Dish, also a 
dozen small peeled onions ; let them brown 
thoroughly and frizzle well ; add a tablespoon 



FISH ^ 77 

of flour, a teaspoon of Paprika, and half as 
much salt. Heat up and stir well until it is 
all thoroughly amalgamated, then put in six 
small mushrooms, flat or button (fresh of 
course), add a good squeeze of lemon, and if 
the mixture is thicker than cream, pour in a 
little water. Now put in a tumbler (half- 
pint) of good claret, a couple of cloves, a bay 
leaf, and a teacup of bouillon. Let the mix- 
ture simmer for eight minutes, after which 
put in the eel and a liqueur glass of brandy, 
and cook for another ten minutes ; then 
serve very hot. An orthodox variation is to 
set light to the brandy before pouring it in 
and if the boiling wine catches fire it gives a 
peculiar savour. A well-made Matelote is a 
thing of joy, a combination of harmonies, 
culminating in one grand Amen. Izaak 
Walton designates such a dish a " Hogoo." 

Grandfather's Bloaters. 

Finally, here Is a dish which is superlative 
in its simplicity. It is not a Chafing-Dish 
recipe, but is yet not altogether out of place. 
It is called Grandfather's Bloaters. Put two 



78 THE CHAFING DISH 

fine bloaters into a soup-plate, pour over 
them enough whisky just to cover them. Set 
light to the whisky, and let it burn itself out. 
The bloaters will then be done — and done 
exquisitely. The dish is attributed to Charles 
Sala, the father of the late George Augustus 
Sala. It reads much more bibulous than it 
really is. As a matter of fact, it is almost a 
temperance dish. 





" Alas ! how simple to these cates compared 
Was that crude apple that diverted Eve r " 

Milton ("Paradise Regained"). 

It has always been a puzzle to me why folks 
take flesh and fowl so much more seriously 
than fish and vegetables. Your fair neigh- 
bour at a dinner-party will prattle gaily 
through soup and fish, of polo or pantomime, 
according to the season, but as soon as meat 
or bird makes its appearance she, all uncon- 
sciously, dives into deeper topics, and talks of 
palaeontology or premature burial. Why ? 
Of course, if this had only happened to my- 
self, I should know that I was a sepulchral 
bore, but I find, on inquiry, that it is the 
experience of nine men out of ten. 

In W. H. Mallock's "New Republic," 



8o THE CHAFING DISH 

some quite nice people find before them at 
dinner a menu of the conversation expected 
of them, as well as of the food to be eaten. 
It was arranged something after the fashion 
of the bill of fare of a great dinner where the 
wines are indicated against each course. Thus 
instead of 'fortue Claire — Amontillado, some- 
thing like this, Creme d" Asperges — Our 
Foreign Policy, was printed on the card. Mr. 
Mallock relates that the scheme was not found 
practicable, but the idea, in itself, seems 
alluring and full of possibilities. Anyhow, it 
is obvious to the most casual diner-out that 
there is a direct, if indefinable, link, between 
Gates and conversation, and that the tide of 
talk ebbs and flows through the menu ac- 
cording to a certain unascertained but more 
or less fixed law. 

The great question of Sauce has broken up 
many DamOn-Pythias friendships, and brought 
havoc into sundry happy homes. No two 
people think exactly alike on Sauces, There 
are so many schools. The Flamboyant, the 
Renaissance, the Simplicists, the Natural 
FJavourltes, the Neo-Soho, and many others. 
The only way to gastronomic salvation is to 



FLESH AND FOWL 8i 

steer a careful course between extremes, and 
to take that which is best and most expedient 
from each and every school, 

A very refined and intelligent cannibal 
once had the politeness to ask the future 
ornament of his stock-pot, " With what sauce 
would you like to be eaten ? " " But I don't 
want to be eaten at all," was the reply. "That 
is entirely beside the question," said the can- 
nibal. This rather suggests the famous Green 
Sauce which La Coste offered to Sir Thomas 
Dundas, at the Duke of York's table, with 
the whispered advice, " With this sauce you 
would enjoy eating your grandfather." 

Do what we will, we cannot get away from 
Sauce. It is a necessary if unobtrusive con- 
comitant of the plainest meats. But it can be 
mitigated, assuaged ; and from a loathly 
disguise it can be transformed into a dulcet 
accompaniment. "Les animaux se repaissent ; 
I'homme mange : I'homme d'esprit seul sait 
manger," said Brillat-Savarin, who achieved 
much of his literary success by gross flattery 
of the palates of his friends. Charles de 
Monselet, the author of " La Cuisiniere 
Po^tique," and a very earnest advocate of 



82 THE CHAFING DISH 

simplicity, as against rioting in the stewpans, 
wrote : " The man who pays no attention to 
the food he consumes can only be likened to 
a pig in whose trough the trotters of his own 
son, a pair of braces, and a box of dominoes 
are equally welcome." 

At the same time the aiFectation of sim- 
plicity is often grossly overdone. When 
Lord Byron first met Tom Moore at Samuel 
Rogers' rooms in St. James's Place, the noble 
lord affected a lack of appetite for anything 
except potatoes and vinegar, biscuits and soda 
water ; but he made a very hearty meal at 
his club afterwards. Again, Percy Bysshe 
Shelley, who was certainly not affected, but 
probably absent-minded, when he felt hungry 
would dash into the first baker's shop, buy a 
loaf, and rush out again, breaking off pieces 
as he walked, and eating them there and then, 
his scanty meal being eked out by common 
raisins, a small stock of which he kept in his 
waistcoat pocket. 

By way of contrast, it is related of George 
Frederick Handel, the great composer, a man 
of voracious appetite and exaggerated capacity-, 
that he ordered dinner for three at a tavern, 



FLESH AND FOWL 83 

and, being hungry, asked, " Is de tinner 
retty ? " The waiter replied that he was 
waiting for the' company to come. " I am 
de gompany," said Handel, " bring up de 
tinner prestissimo." This anecdote, probably 
unveracious, is often attributed to Papa 
Haydn — which is ridiculous. 

Joints and whole birds, save very small 
ones, are of course out of the question with 
a Chafing Dish, but steaks, cutlets, disjointed 
birds, and a thousand varieties of treating 
flesh and fowl, raw and cooked, are well 
within its range. 

Rump Steak. 

Beef steak, or rump steak, Is very palatable 
cooked in the following manner. Give a 
one-pound steak a thorough beating. Mallets 
are made for this express purpose, but if such 
an implement be not available, I have used 
the head of a poker, wrapped in cloth, with 
great effect. This drubbing makes the meat 
tender. Put the steak into the dish with 
two tablespoons of butter and three slices of 
lemoD Cook it slowly for twelve minutes. 



84 THE CHAFING DISH 

Then pour over it a cupful of bouillon and 
a wine-glass of claret. Simmer it for ten 
minutes more with an added teaspoon of 
Worcester sauce, salt and pepper. Before ser- 
ving the steak, which ought to be thoroughly 
tender, squeeze a lemon over it. Onions 
are, I venture to think, a great improve- 
ment, and two of them, cut in rings, may 
well be added, after the first twelve minutes' 
cooking. 

The Roast Beef of Old England which 
has done so much to maintain the reputation 
of Great Britain on the Continent, is strangely 
mistreated and man-handled in foreign parts. 
It is often served saignant or nearly raw, 
under the mistaken belief that we like it that 
way. Moreover, in very old French cookery 
6ooks, roast mutton and roast lamb are 
gravely designated Rosbif de Mouton and 
Rosbif d' Agneau respectively. Was this sheer 
flattery, or ignorance, or both ? 

Devilled Beef. 

Devilled Beef can be highly recommended 
in this fashion : Three thick slices of cold 



FLESH AND FOWL 85 

cooked roast beef, lean. Butter them as 
though they were slices of bread. Then dose 
them liberally with the following mixture ; 
One teaspoon made mustard, half a teaspoon 
black pepper, same of salt, a teaspoon of 
Worcester sauce, and a tablespoon of vinegar. 
Cook them in this in the Chafing Dish, 
until the meat begins to curl up at the 
edges. 

This, although very good, is mere journey- 
man work and not a " creation." Did not 
Aristotle say that a man who eats a dinner 
is a better judge of it than the cook ? That 
is judgment, however, not creation, and the 
French cook-artists call their dishes " crea- 
tions " — like the dressmakers. 

A chop, I contend, should only be cooked 
on a gridiron — grilled, that is to say, over an 
open fire. Any other treatment is an offence 
which, in a more enlightened age, would be 
made indictable. St. Lawrence would rise in 
his grave and object, were a chop put in a 
Chafing Dish — and quite right too ! St. 
Lawrence is of course the patron saint of the 
grill, for is he not said to have been broiled 
alive on a gridiron ? According to the 



86 THE CHAFING DISH 

respectable authority of Foxe's Book of 
Martyrs, his dying words were : 

" This side enough is toasted, so turn me, tyrant, 
eat, 
And see whether, raw or roasted, I make the 
better meat." 



Chipped Beef. 

One of the best things produced in 
America, besides buyers of spurious art 
works and donors of Free Libraries, is 
Chipped Beef. You can buy it in tins and 
treat it thus. Put three tablespoons of 
butter in the dish. When just melted add a 
tablespoon of flour ; stir until smooth. 
Then add the Chipped Beef, which must 
have been previously soaked in cold water 
for ten minutes ; let it simmer for eight 
minutes, then stir in the beaten-up yolks of 
two eggs, and serve very hot. Every day is 
Thanksgiving Day when one eats Chipped 
Beef, and it is a selfish dish to cook, because 
one wants to eat it all oneself ; and the worst 
of eating is that it takes away one's appetite — 
although there is a proverb to the contrary. 



FLESH AND FOWL 87 

But it is always comfortable to be content 
(or nearly so) on good plain food, instead of 
on the misguided concoctions of addle-egged 
and-pated foreigners, which leave one in the 
position of the unfortunate vultures in the 
famous Oxford prize poem, who 

" Satiated with one horrid meal, 
No second rapture for another feel." 

Zrazy. 

This is how to make Polish Zrazy in a 
Chafing Dish. Buy the whole undercut 
(fillet) of a small sirloin. Cut it into inch 
slices. Brown two sliced onions in the Dish 
in a large walnut of butter. Add the meat, 
a teaspoon of Paprika, salt, and half a dozen 
cloves. Cover up, and let it hot up to 
boiling. Do not uncover, as the great thing 
is to let it steam in its own fumet. Shake 
the pan now and again, so that it shall 
amalgamate well. After once boiling up, 
let it simmer for fifteen minutes, add a good 
squeeze of lemon, a glass of claret, and serve 
with the accompaniment of potato salad. 

" This dish of meat is too good for any 



88 THE CHAFING DISH 

but anglers, or very honest men," says Izaak 
Walton of a like concoction. 



Frizzled Ham. 

Do you think you would like Frizzled 
Ham ? I do ; and this is how I cook it. 
Start with half a pound of rather fat ham in 
thin slices. Put half a tablespoon of butter 
in the pan, and when very hot add the ham. 
As soon as it begins to curl at the edges, 
dust the slices with drj^ flour, which will soon 
turn brown. Turn the lamp down and keep 
simmering. Now mix in a bowl half a table- 
spoon of vinegar and the same of dry 
mustard. Pour it over the ham, add enough 
boiling water to cover the meat, put in three 
drops of Tabasco, and let it all boil up for a 
minute. 

Ham in Hades. 

Another and somewhat similar way of 
preparing ham, which has been very success- 
ful, particularly at supper-time, after, say, a 
lobster salad, has been christened Ham in 
Hades. 



FLESH AND FOWL 89 

Make a mixture of a teaspoon of made 
mustard, a tablespoon of Tarragon vinegar, 
a pinch of salt, a teaspoon of Paprika, a tea- 
spoon of Worcester sauce. Spread this 
mixture on both sides of half a dozen slices 
of ham. Put two tablespoons of olive oil in 
the Chafer. When this begins to smoke, put in 
the ham and brown it quickly on both sides. 

Gallimaufrey. 

Gallimaufrey is a very old dish, meaning 
really e/^// Sorts. Shakespeare calls it Gaily- 
Mawfrey. A very excellent Modern Galli- 
maufrey is prepared thus: Three thickish 
slices of ham with two walnuts of butter in 
the Dish. Let it cook slowly. Add six 
peeled and washed Jerusalem artichokes, 
three sliced carrots, one sliced onion. Let it 
go on simmering. Now put in a couple of 
dozen haricot beans, a sprig of parsley, three 
cloves, a wineglass of sherry, a blade of 
mace, salt, pepper, and a teaspoon of sugar. 
Simmer it for twenty minutes, bringing it at 
last just to the boil. It is then an agreeable 
stew, which is probably as totally unlike the 



90 THE CHAFING DISH 

real old-fashioned Gallimaufrey as anything 
possibly could be. But that really does not 
matter. 

Gallimaufrey dates back to the time of 
Master Robert May, who published a memor- 
able cook-book in 1660, which is not without 
its humours, A real old English banquet, 
it seems, would not be complete without 
two pies, the one filled with live frogs, and 
the other with birds. These are for the 
particular delectation of the ladies. " They 
will desire to see what is in the pies ; where 
lifting first the lid off one pie, out skips 
some frogs, which makes the ladies to skip 
and shreek ; next after the other pie, whence 
come out the birds, who, by a natural in- 
stinct, flying at the light, will put out the 
candles. So that what with frogs beneath, 
and birds above, it will cause much delight 
and pleasure to the whole company." 

They were right merry folk then ! 

Bubble and Squeak. 

Not to know Bubble and Squeak is to 
admit one's ignorance of one of the good 



FLESH AND FOWL 91 

things of this earth. Chaffinda can tackle 
it, and in this wise. It is an old Cornish 
version. There may be others, but there 
can be none better. The dish needs cabbage, 
and it is most practical to get a young fresh 
cabbage, boiled, pressed, and chopped into 
shreds before you begin the actual cooking. 
It saves time and trouble. Put a table- 
spoon of butter in the Chafing Dish, also 
one chopped onion, and the cabbage. Let 
it frizzle and absorb the butter. Just before 
boiling, add gradually a cupful of milk, 
pepper and salt. As soon as it boils up, 
take it off and put it aside in a hot dish. 
Now hot up three underdone slices of cooked 
cold roast beef in two tablespoons of butter, 
turning them frequently, so that they shall 
be well cooked on both sides ; add a table- 
spoon of Worcester sauce and the same of 
vinegar. Now make a mound of the cooked 
cabbage, and put the slices of well-done meat 
around it, upright. You will regret that 
you did not cook double the quantity. 

There are so many kinds of sausages that 
it is difficult to pitch upon the best for 
Chafing purposes. Slices of the Brunswick 



92 THE CHAFING DISH 

species are excellent in pea-soup. The genuine 
liver sausage makes good sandwiches. The 
more elaborate French kinds are akin to 
galantine. The Italian Bologna and Mor- 
tadella have their friends. But, after all, 
the well-made Cambridge sausage is hard to 
beat. I plump for the Cambridge variety. 

Hodge's Sausages. 

This is a Cambridge recipe for Hodge's 
Sausages. Put as many as you think you 
can eat in the dish with a walnut of butter 
for every two, pepper and salt, and a table- 
spoon of Worcester sauce. Then add one 
sliced apple for each sausage. Take out the 
cores, but do not peel them. Stab the 
sausages with a fork to prevent their burst- 
ing. Cook for twelve minutes. American 
apples are good for this dish, and also 
the homegrown Keswick Codlin, Blenheim 
Orange, or Hambledon Deux Ans. 

There is something peculiarly bucolic about 
Hodge's Sausages which may commend itself 
to the rurally minded. To me, it brings the 
scent of the hay over the spirit-lamp. 



FLESH AND FOWL 93 

Goulasch. 

Another appetising stew is Goulasch. Beat 
well a half-pound (or larger) steak ; cut it 
into pieces the size of a domino. Put them 
in the Chafing Dish with two cold cooked 
potatoes chopped into dice. Pour over the 
meat and the vegetables two tablespoons of 
olive oil, and as soon as it simmers add an 
onion in slices, half a teaspoon of Paprika, 
salt, and a cupful of bouillon. Cover it up, 
and let it cook for ten minutes, stirring 
occasionally. Just before serving drop in 
half a dozen stoned olives. 

So much for beef. The next meat is of 
course mutton, for which three recipes should 
suffice. The first is Mutton Steaks, and is 
adapted from a Welsh recipe. I have a very 
interesting Welsh cookery book, tersely 
entitled : " Llyfr Cogino a Chadw ty : yn 
cynwys Pafodd? APaham.? Cogyddiaeth." 
I am sorry that ignorance prevents my giving 
anything out of it, but I think that I have 
got the title nearly right. 



94 THE CHAFING DISH 

Mutton Steaks. 

To make Mutton Steaks, cut three slices, 
each an inch thick, from the middle of a cold 
cooked leg of mutton. Put them in the 
Dish with enough water to cover them, pepper 
and salt, and five small onions. Cover it up 
and let the meat brown thoroughly on one 
side, then turn it over and add a walnut of 
butter and a tablespoon of flour. Do not 
allow it to boil, but keep it simmering gently 
for at least fifteen minutes. If raw meat be 
used, the result is also quite satisfactory, but 
it is well in that case to replace the water by 
a cup of bouillon. 

Turkish Mutton. 

Turkish Mutton, locally termed Etena 
Jarvat : this is one of those dishes which 
may fairly be included in Brillat-Savarin's 
magisteres restoratifs. It is easy enough to 
chafe. 

Cut half a pound of uncooked mutton 
(from the leg from choice, but not absolutely 
necessary) into medium dice Put the meat 



FLESH AND FOWL 95 

into the Chafing Dish with salt, pepper and 
dripping, fat, oil, or butter, according to 
taste, but oil is preferable. When the meat 
turns brown, add half a pound of previously 
cooked and sliced French beans, also half a 
pint of water or bouillon (latter for choice) and 
a bunch of simples, either thyme or marjoram, 
or both. Simmer steadily for twenty minutes, 
stirring occasionally. Carrots can be used 
instead of beans. Just before serving turn 
up the flame full, and let it come just to the 
boil. 



Mutton Venison. 

Mutton Venison is a compromise, and may 
be recommended as such. We live in an age 
of compromise, so why not bring it into our 
cookery ? Make an extra strong decoction 
of bouillon from any good meat-juice, three 
tablespoons in quantity, mince into it an 
onion, and put in the pan with a tablespoonful 
of Worcester sauce, three drops of Tabasco, 
a glass of claret, a dessert-spoon of red- 
currant jelly (or guava or blackberry jelly), 
pepper and salt. When very hot put in 



96 THE CHAFING DISH 

about a pound of slices of cold cooked leg of 
mutton, lean, cut into strips. Let it simmer 
for twenty minutes. It is not a bit like 
venison, but distinctly good nevertheless. 

Plump and Wallop. 

"Wha'llhireme? Wha'll hire me? Wha'll hire me ? 
Three plumps and a wallop for ae bawbee." 

This advertisement, it is alleged, was 
addressed to the good people of Kirkmahoe, 
who were so poor that they could not afford 
to put any meat into their broth. A cobbler 
invested all his money in buying four sheep 
shanks, and when a neighbour wanted to 
make mutton broth, for the payment of one 
halfpenny the cobbler would " plump " one 
of the sheep shanks into the boiling water 
and give it a " wallop," or whisk round. He 
then wrapped it in a cabbage leaf and took it 
home. This was called a "gustin bone," 
and was supposed to give a rich "gust" to 
the broth. 



FLESH AND FOWL 97 

Potatoes and Point. 

A Boer recipe of much the same descrip- 
tion was known in early Transvaal days (long 
before the War) as "Potatoes and Point." 
The poor " Bijwoner " family was served all 
'round with potatoes, and a red herring was 
hung up in the middle of the room. The 
elders were allowed to rub their potatoes on 
the herring, but the youngsters might only 
point theirs towards the delicacy at the end 
of a fork. The mere proximity of the 
highly-flavoured herring was supposed to 
give the potato a flavour. 

Lots of quite worthy folk gorge themselves 
periodically and keep their children on the 
border-line of starvation. A certain exag- 
geratedly selfish family man of my acquain- 
tance, who for economic reasons lived some- 
where in the wilds of West Kensington, 
made it his unholy practice to dine once a 
month with a couple of boon companions of 
the same sex at the Carlton or Prince's, and at 
the conclusion of a remarkable dinner was wont 
to blurt out : " By George, I wish I could 
afford to bring the wife and children here ! " 



98 THE CHAFING DISH 

Scouse. 

Permit me now to suggest a trial of that 
very old and famous dish, Scouse. It is pre- 
pared in the following fashion : Get one 
pound of lean, dairy-fed pork, cooked and 
cold. Cut it into half-inch squares ; sprinkle 
them with flour, salt, Paprika, and dip them 
lightly in French mustard. Put in the 
Chafing Dish three chopped onions, half a 
teaspoon of sugar, one wine-glass of vinegar, 
three cloves, a blade of mace and a bayleaf. 
Cover up and let it simmer, not boil, while 
the quantity of liquid is reduced by one half. 
Add the pork with half a pint of bouillon, 
and simmer for another ten minutes. 

Young pork, like young veal, is always 
excellent, but it can be too young. A sucking 
pig with lacklustre eye and a lemon in its 
jaws is pathetic and none too appetising. 
Veal, in England at any rate, is often tasteless 
and somewhat dull. Not so very long ago, 
in Ireland, they used to kill newborn calves, 
bake them in an oven with potatoes, and call 
the dish " Staegering Bob." 



FLESH AND FOWL 99 

Kabobs. 

Kabobs have probably come to us from 
India, via the Cape. This is an old Capetown- 
Malay recipe which is thoroughly reliable. 
Half a pound of cold veal ; the same of lean 
ham, both cut into slices a quarter of an inch 
thick ; three apples, and three onions. Cut 
the meat and the vegetables into rounds with 
a knife or cutter, about the size of a crown 
piece. Skewer them up on wooden (or, if you 
are a de Beers shareholder, on silver) skewers, 
in the following order : ( i ) a round of veal ; 
(2) a round of apple ; (3) a round of ham ; (4) 
a round of onion. Sprinkle them with pepper, 
salt and curry-powder. Put them in the 
Chafing Dish with a teacupful of bouillon and 
a walnut of butter ; simmer steadily for twenty 
minutes, then thicken the gravy with a little 
flour, and serve either with boiled rice, or 
toast, or both. 

Brigands' Fowls. 

Cold fowls lend themselves in a hundred 
ways ,to the kind attentions of Chaffinda. 



lOO THE CHAFING DISH 

Mention of quite a few of these must urge the 
gastronomer to further experiments and dis- 
coveries. Pollio a la Cmtrabandista : this is 
the way brigands cook, or ought to cook, 
fowls. Cut a cold cooked fowl into neat 
joints. Put them into the Chafing Dish with 
four tablespoons of olive oil, and heat up 
until the meat Is of a light brown colour, 
turning the pieces frequently. Then keep the 
flame lower and simmering all the time ; add 
four tomatoes cut into quarters, two chopped 
green chillies, one shredded Spanish onion, 
one tablespoon of Worcester sauce, the same 
of mushroom ketchup, and four cloves. Let 
it simmer, closely covered, for at least fifteen 
minutes. It will then prove a most savoury 
mess. 

Howtowdie, 

' From Spain to Bonnie Scotland ! This is 
how to cook Howtowdie. Cut up a young 
fowl into handy joints. Put them into the 
Chafing Dish with two walnuts of butter, a 
cupful of bouillon, three sprigs of parsley, 
three small onions, salt and pepper. Simmer 



FLESH AND FOWL loi 

continuously until the bird is tender. When 
half cooked add another cupful of bouillon to 
make up for evaporation. When quite cooked 
put the fowl on to a hot dish, surround it 
with poached eggs, then thicken the gravy in 
the pan with a tablespoon of flour and a table- 
spoon of Worcester sauce ; give it a smart 
boil up and pour it over the fowl. This 
Howtowdie is adapted from an excellent 
recipe in " The Scottish Cookery Book con- 
taining guid plain rules for makin' guid plain 
meats suitable for sma' purses, big families, 
and Scotch stomachs." 



Roman Fowl. 

The preparation of Roman Fowl is sim- 
plicity itself. Pour four tablespoons of olive 
oil into the Chafing Dish with a pinch of salt, 
a teaspoon of Paprika, three cloves, and herbs 
to taste, but do not overdo the herbs. When 
the oil is sizzling put in all the limbs of a 
lightly boiled chicken, cut up. Cook it 
slowly, turning the meat so that all the flesh 
is equally cooked all over. When done it 
should be a delicate brown. Add half a cup- 



I02 THE CHAFING DISH 

ful of tomato sauce and the same of bouillon, 
also three shredded onions. Simmer for 
eight minutes, then serve. 

Creamed Chicken. 

This is an American recipe, copied verbatim 
from an American Chafing-Dish cookery 
book. Two cups cold chicken cut into small 
pieces, one cup chicken stock, one cup milk 
or cream, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one 
heaping tablespoonful of flour, salt and pepper. 
Cook the butter and the flour together in the 
Chafing Dish ; add the stock and milk and 
stir until smooth ; put in the chicken, salt and 
pepper, and cook three minutes longer. 

Other times, other manners. Contrast 
with the severe simplicity of the above the 
sort of thing that gratified the palates of our 
forebears. In the fourteenth century, 
Sacchetti says, a baked goose stufi^ed with 
garlic and quinces was esteemed an excellent 
dish In Italy, and when the Gonfalonier of 
Florence entertained a famous doctor he gave 
him the stomach of a calf, boiled partridges, 
and pickled sardines. 



FLESH AND FOWL 103 

Old Samuel Pepys, too, had a nice taste in 
food as in music, and other things. His idea 
of " a fine dinner " was to this effect : " A 
dish of marrowbones, a leg of mutton, a loin 
of veal, a dish of fowl ; three pullets and a 
dozen of larks, all in a dish ; a great tart, a 
neat's tongue, a dish of anchovies, a dish of 
prawns, and cheese." 

For those who are curious in such things 
it is easy to find quaint recipes in old books. 
For instance, if you want to know how to 
bake a hedgehog in clay — and very good it is 
too — you have only to read Albert Smith's 
" Christopher Tadpole " and you will know 
all about it. It is truly said that comparatively 
few people read Disraeli's novels nowadays, 
but those who are culinarily inclined would 
do well to turn to the opening chapter of 
•' Tancred," where there is a delightful con- 
versation between a grand old maitre de louche, 
" Papa Prevost," and his pupil, the eminent 
chef, Leander. The pompous spirit of the 
culinary artist is delightfully caught and the 
gastronomic jargon wonderfully reproduced. 

But gastronomy has never lacked its 
historians. Great painters have come to its 



I04 THE CHAFING DISH 

aid, as witness the glowing canvases of 
Snyders, Teniers, Jordaens, Ruysdael, Jan 
Weenix, Melchior de Hondecoeter and Jan 
Fy t. Their pictures of still life, the poulterers' 
shops, the heaped baskets of good cheer, the 
brilliant lobster, the callow lemon, the russet 
hare, and the lustrous plumage of the 
pheasant, have inspired the hand of the 
Masters, who must have appreciated all such 
culinary delicacies in order to have painted 
them with such loving-kindness. 

Yesterday's Pheasant. 

" If partridge had the woodcock's thighs, 
'Twould be the noblest bird that flies ; 
If woodcock had the partridge breast, 
'Twould be the best bird ever drest." 

Yesterday's Pheasant can be made into a 
most tempting dish by cutting up the remains 
into convenient chunks, omitting the bones. 
Put one tablespoon of butter in the Dish, add 
a tablespoon of flour, and keep on stirring till 
the mixture is smooth and light brown. Add 
a glass of claret, a tablespoon of Worcester 
auce, pepper and salt, and bring to a boil, 



FLESH AND FOWL 105 

stirring occasionally. Now put in the chunks 
of pheasant, and simmer for eight minutes. 
An excellent accompaniment to this is chest- 
nut and celery salad. 

Any game bird may be treated in like 
manner, save always the woodcock, that little 
epitome of all that is toothsome and delicate. 
A curious thing about the woodcock is its 
extraordinarily rapid digestion, A single 
bird has been known to consume in a night 
more earthworms than half filled a moderate- 
sized flowerpot. 

Few people know the different expressions 
for flocks of birds. Here are some of them : 
a building of rooks, a bevy of quails, a watch 
of nightingales, a cast of hawks, a nide of 
pheasants, a muster of peacocks, a plump of 
wildfowl, a flock of geese, a pack of grouse, 
a chattering of choughs, a stand of plovers, 
and a wisp of snipe. 

A woman I know had a very good cook, 
who was also a plain cook — or rather, a plain- 
spoken cook. She had been In the place 
many years, and much was forgiven her. 
The mistress, visiting the kitchen, inspected 
a turkey, and remarked that it was a very 



io6 THE CHAFING DISH 

thin bird. "Just you wait, M'm, till I've 
stuffed it with chestnuts," said the cook, " you 
won't know it then. It'll be quite another 
thing. Just like you, M'm, when you has 
your di'monds on." 

I do not advise the fabrication of elaborate 
entries in the Chafing Dish. They can be 
and have been done, but I mistrust them and 
find ample scope for ingenuity, inventiveness, 
and novelty in the cates I have already des- 
cribed, without venturing into the fields ot 
fancy. Vol-au-Vent, for instance, or Brains 
k la Poulette, or Spanish Cream Pudding are 
all within the range of feasibility, but I leave 
the recipes to those less timorous than myself. 
In fact, in this case, I am at one with the 
waiter in the " Bab Ballads " who hurled the 
most awful threat in culinary literature at his 
flighty sweetheart : 

" Flirtez toujours, ma belle, si tu oses, 
Je me vengerai ainsi, ma chere : 
Je lui dirai d'quoi on compose 
Vol-au-Vent a la Financiere ! " 

The good things of this life are mostly 
plain and wholesome (with a few delightful 
exceptions), and we can all qualify to live in 



FLESH AND FOWL 107 

Bengodi, Boccaccio's country of content, 
where they tie up the vines with sausages, 
where you may buy a fat goose for a penny, 
and have the giblets thrown in into the bargain. 
In this place there is a mountain of Parmesan 
cheese, and the people's employment is making 
cheese-cakes and macaroons. There is also a 
river which runs Malmsey wine of the very 
best quality. 

There are no cheap excursions to Bengodi. 
"We have to tramp there on foot — and earn 
our bread on the road as we travel thither. 





" Will a man give a penny to fill his belly with 
hay ? Or can you persuade the turtle-dove to 
live upon carrion like the crow ? " 

John Bunyan (" Pilgrim's Progress"), 

The first vegetarian was probably Nebuchad- 
nezzar, and he has many followers. With the 
utmost love and respect for all vegetables, 
without exception, I refuse to accept them as 
the staff of life, or indeed as anything more 
than a delicious aid thereto. It is possible 
that the internal economy of certain very 
worthy folk may be more easily conducted 
on a vegetarian basis, and indeed every man 
is at liberty to feed as suits him best; but 
as a matter of preference, predilection and 
experience, 1 decline to follow his example. 
If they are content to let me go my way 



VEGETABLES AND SALADS 109 

unmolested, I have no desire to interfere 
with their tastes. But no proselytising, 
please ! 

Here in England, although we shine in our 
roasts, our beef, our chops, and maybe a few 
other trifles, we are woefully and culpably 
ignorant of vegetable cookery. The average 
British cook has but one idea with vegetables. 
She cooks them in water, with lumps of coarse 
soda, whi ch she thinks makes them soft and 
keeps their colour. As a matter of fact, 
this process, especially the soda, practically 
destroys their health-giving properties. Vege- 
tables want the kindliest care, the most 
delicate handling, the most knowledgeable 
treatment. Otherwise they become mere 
parodies of their better selves. What could 
be more terrible, more depressing, than the 
usual slab of wet cabbage doled out at the 

' average London restaurant ? It is an insult 
to the cabbage, to the guest, and to the 

' Art of Cookery. And it is so easy to cook 
it decently — even in a Chafing Dish. 

Again, the average British household knows 
and uses only a very limited range of vege- 
tables, ignoring, wilfully or otherwise, scores 



no THE CHAFING DISH 

of edible delights, easily grown and easily 
cooked, but with the inbred laziness of crass 
conservatism, totally overlooked, because, 
forsooth, "the greengrocer does not keep 
it ! " The greengrocer, on the other hand, 
scorns the inquirer after such strange green 
meats, because " they are never asked for " ; 
and so, between the two, we are relegated to 
the same dull round of vegetable monotony. 
Household cookery knows nothing of the 
Aubergine, or Egg-plant, of which there are 
fourteen edible varieties, most of which can 
easily be grown in this country, although 
the rich purple kinds are best suited to our 
climate. Then there is Salsify, which is 
amenable to a dozen different treatments ; 
as the vegetable oyster it is duly honoured 
in America, but we know it not. The Good 
King Harry is only known in Lincolnshire. 
The leaves served as cabbage are excellent^ 
and the tender young shoots are as delicate 
as asparagus. The Cardoon, Scornzonera, 
Celeriac, Chicory, Buck's Horn, Chervil, 
Jew's Mallow, Lovage, Purslane, Rampion, 
Scurvy-Grass and Valerian, are only a selec- 
tion from a list thrice as long. 



VEGETABLES AND SALADS iii 

It is useless, however, to lift up one thin 
quavering voice of protest in a wilderness 
of deaf greengrocers. I must e'en deal with 
the common vegetables of commerce, others 
being unprocurable, and their cultivation a 
counsel of perfection. 

One naturally begins with potatoes, though 
the reason of their position in the hierarchy 
of the garden is occult. Sir Walter Raleigh, 
good man and true, has much to answer for. 
Tobacco and potatoes ! I believe it to be 
a fact that throughout the length and breadth 
of Ireland there is no memorial to Raleigh. 
This seems a distinct omission. But then, 
neither is there a statue to Lord Verulam ! 

Between the primitive tuber, baked in the 
ashes, and Tommes a la Rejane, there lies the 
whob gamut of culinary ingenuity. They 
are the extremes of sophistication and the 
opposite. But it must suffice here to give a 
few only of the simplest recipes, well within 
Chaffinda's modest capability, and in their 
very ingenuousness fit alike for the delec- 
tation of Prince or Pauper. 



112 THE CHAFING DISH 

Mary's Potatoes. 

The first method is called Mary's Potatoes 
for want of a better name. Slice up half 
a dozen cold cooked potatoes. Put them 
in the Chafing Dish with a walnut of butter 
and a cupful of milk ; let them simmer for 
five minutes, then add the juice of half a 
lemon, a teaspoon of chopped parsley, pepper 
and salt. Simmer for five minutes more. 

Potato Uglies. 

Cut up half a dozen cold cooked potatoes 
into quarter-inch slices. Put four slices of 
fat bacon into the Chafing Dish, and hot up 
until the fat begins to smoke ; then drop in 
the potatoes, add pepper and salt, and cook 
for five minutes. Drain before serving. 

Sala's Potatoes. 

Cut four potatoes in slices as large as 
a halfpenny, but twice as thick. Put two 
tablespoonsful of butter in the Chafing Dish, 
and a dozen delicate little onions cut into 



VEGETABLES AND SALADS 113 

dice. Hot up the onions and butter till 
the former turn a golden brown, then add 
the potatoes and a teaspoon of chopped 
parsley, salt, pepper, and a squeeze of lemon. 
Keep stirring, and when the onions are deep 
yellow, which should be in about eight 
minutes, the dish is ready. 

Fried Potatoes. 

Boil half a dozen potatoes in their skins. 
Peel them when hot, cut them in quarters, 
roll them in bread-crumbs, and then fry them 
for seven minutes in two tablespoons of 
sizzling butter. Sprinkle chopped parsley on 
them before serving. 

The tomato or love-apple is a perennial 
joy to the eye, whether cooked or uncooked, 
ripe or unripe. Its form and colour are alike 
exquisite; and its flavour altogether a thing 
apart. Our grandfathers knew little or 
' nothing about it, apart from sauce, and it 
has been left to our generation fully to ap- 
preciate its possibilities. It is the more 
strange because it has been a staple article 
of food in mid and southern Europe since 

H 



114 THE CHAFING DISH 

time immemorial. It has even been sug- 
gested that Eve's apple, Paris' apple, Nau- 
sicaa's apple, and the apples of Hesperides 
were all really tomatoes ! K^pommes d' amour, 
fomi di mori, Liebesdpfel, Paradiesdpfel, or 
tomatoes, they are nowadays honoured and 
appreciated by all right lovers of the good 
things of the earth. They are both fruit 
and vegetable, and it is very difficult to 
spoil them in cooking. They are best of 
all when grilled as an accompaniment to 
chops (Mr. Pickwick, it will be remembered, 
enjoyed them in the form of sauce), but the 
following is a very simple and honest way of 
preparing them. 

Fried Tomatoes. 

Cut three tomatoes in halves. Pepper and 
salt them and coat the cut surfaces with bread- 
crumbs. Put two tablespoons of butter in 
the Chafing Dish, and when sizzling add the 
tomatoes and cook them thoroughly for eight 
minutes. 

The Jerusalem artichoke should not be 
devoted solely to soup. It is an excellent 



VEGETABLES AND SALADS 1I5 

adjunct to meats, and fully repays a little 
careful attention. 



Fried Artichoke Chips. 

Wash and peel the outer skin of a pound 
of artichokes, then with a very sharp knife 
peel them into ribbons (as one would peel an 
apple) ; then put them lightly in a cloth to 
dry. Hot up two tablespoons of olive oil in 
the Chafer to smoking-point. Put in the 
artichokes, letting them fry until they rustle 
when stirred with a fork. Pour off the oil 
and strain them. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. 



Braised Artichokes. 

Wash and peel a pound of artichokes and 
put them aside in a basin of cold water- 
Melt a walnut of butter in the Chafing Dish ; 
add the artichokes after drying them well. 
Let them brown well in the butter ; add 
pepper and salt and stir them frequently, 
letting them simmer for twelve minutes. 



ii6 THE CHAFING DISH 

Spinach Puree. 

Have your spinach thoroughly well washed 
in several waters till it is perfectly clean. 
Boil a pint of water in the Chafing Dish, 
salt it and put in the spinach. Boil it for 
ten minutes. Take out the spinach and 
strain it. Pour cold water over it to take 
away the bitter taste ; strain again. Put a 
walnut of butter in the dish, add the spinach 
and half a cupful of milk. Mix up well 
with a wooden spoon. Heat for five 
minutes. 

There are about twenty-five different kinds 
of edible mushrooms. The popular test of 
peeling is unreliable, because some poisonous 
mushrooms peel easily, and some harmless 
kinds do not. An authority on mushrooms 
(Mr. E. Kay Robinson) says: "If a mushroom 
of any kind which has been gathered from an 
open space is brittle and compact in texture, 
and not brighly coloured, nor peculiar in taste 
or unpleasant in smell, and neither exudes a 
milky juice when bruised, nor changes colour 
wnen exposed to the air, you may eat it with- 
out fear." 



VEGETABLES AND SAT.ADS 117 

Consequently, when you go mushroom- 
gathering you must bear in mind nearly as 
many things as when you address your ball 
on the tee. I always buy my mushrooms, 
and go to a good shop ; then, I think, you 
are fairly safe. 

The onion is a sure poison detector. Put 
an onion In a dish of mushrooms. If it does 
not change colour the mushrooms are all 
right. If it blushes black with shame at its 
contiguity, they are all wrong. A silver spoon 
acts in the same, way and gets black in contact 
with toadstools or the like. Verily, evil 
communications corrupt good manners — 
even in onions. 

Stewed Mushrooms. 

Flood the Chafing Dish with really good 
olive oil. Put in a teaspoonful of Paprika 
and a pinch of salt. Drop in the mushrooms, 
after having stalked and peeled them, black 
part uppermost. Cover up, and listen to 
the appetising sizzling for seven minutes. 
They should then be done to a turn. 

Mushrooms used to be dried, powdered. 



ii8 THE CHAFING DISH 

and used as a flavouring in the eighteenth 
century. Cook-books of that period speak 
of the condiment as " Cook's SnuflT." The 
great and justly esteemed Grimod de la 
Reyniere said that it ought always to be on 
the dining-table together with pepper and 
salt. Here is a hint for the modern pur- 
veyors of table delicacies. 

In Sir Henry Layard's Essay on " Renais- 
sance Cookery," he says : " Amongst vege- 
tables, the thistle (Cardo) was esteemed a 
delicacy, and was generally served with fruit 
at the end of the dinner. The thorny thistles 
with well-grown white stalks are the best." 
The Cardo includes the artichoke, but that 
the name was usually applied to the common 
thistle is shown by the quaint remark of 
Romoli in his "Singolare Dottrina," that "it 
should not be eaten with milk, which it has 
the property of curdling, and consequently 
the process would take place in your stomach, 
but it should be eaten with pepper, which 
does not generate wind, and clears the liver ; 
and such is the reason why donkeys, who eat 
largely of this, have better stomachs than 
men." 



VEGETABLES AND SALADS 119 

Dr. Thudichum, an eminent authority on 
dietetics, does not agree with these conclu- 
sions, which are nevertheless illuminating, 
and do not detract from the merits of the 
nettle as a food-stuff. 

Welsh Leeks. 

Boil half a dozen leeks in a pint of water. 
Drain them well, and cut each leek into two- 
inch lengths ; squeeze a lemon over them, 
pepper and salt them well. Set them aside. 
Make half a dozen croutons of toast and 
put the leeks on them. Replace them in 
the Chafing Dish, pouring over each crouton 
a liberal dose of Sauce Robert. Heat up 
and serve on a very hot plate. Sauce Robert 
(Escoffier brand) can be bought ready made 
at the Stores. 

French Beans. 

Boil a pound of shredded beans till tender, 
and then drain them well. Melt two table- 
spoons of butter in the Chafing Dish and 
stir into it a small dessert-spoon of flour. 



I20 THE CHAFING DISH 

Keep these simmering, and shake them about 
till they are lightly browned ; add salt and 
pepper and a cup of milk. Just before 
serving, add the yolks of two eggs, slightly 
beaten, and a squeeze of lemon. Stir all up 
thoroughly and beat up to just below boiling- 
point. 

Broad Beans. 

Shell and wash in cold water one pint of 
broad beans. Put them in the Chafing Dish 
and boil them with a sprinkling of salt ; 
when nearly soft strain them, and then 
replace them in the dish with a tumbler of 
bouillon, a little chopped parsley, and a lumf> 
of sugar. Cook them slowly until they are 
quite tender. Beat up the yolk of an egg 
and a wine-glass of milk ; add both to the 
beans with pepper and salt, and beat up 
thoroughly to just below boiling-point. 

Italian Broad Beans. 

Shell a pint of fresh young broad beans 
and put them aside in a dish of cold water. 



VEGETABLES AND SALADS 121 

Fill the Chafing Dish with nearly two pints 
of water, add a thick slice of cooked ham, 
a stick of celery, a bunch of parsley, three 
cloves, twenty peppercorns, and a bay leaf. 
Boil all this for seven minutes, then remove 
the ham, vegetables, and spices, and put in 
the beans. When they are quite tender, 
take them out, strain them, put them back 
in the dish ; add a tablespoon of butter, and 
hot them up again for three or four minutes 
before serving. 

Brussels Sprouts. 

Place a pint of small Brussels sprouts in 
the Chafing Dish with two pints of boiling 
water, slightly salted. Boil for ten minutes ; 
take out the sprouts, drain them and put 
them aside to keep hot. Then make the 
following sauce in the Chafing Dish. Two 
tablespoons of butter melted, one tablespoon 
flour, pepper and salt, and sufficient bouillon 
to make the mixture of the consistency 
of thick cream. Heat this to boiling, 
stirring it well. Just before serving, add 
the juice of a whole lemon. Pour the 



122 THE CHAFING DISH 

sauce over the hot sprouts, and serve very 
quickly. 

Both this and the previous receipe are 
adapted from a most excellent book on the 
cooking of vegetables : " Leaves from our 
Tuscan Garden," by Janet Ross. 

Haricot Beans. 

Put a pint of young green shelled haricot 
beans into the Chafing Dish with two pints 
of boiling water. When half cooked add 
salt and pepper and a tablespoon of butter. 
Take out the beans, drain them, and replace 
them in the dish with another tablespoon of 
butter, a little chopped parsley, more salt 
and pepper and a squeeze of lemon. Toss 
them about well in the Chafing Dish and hot 
up for eight minutes. 

Fried Parsley. 

Indispensable for flavourings. Wash the 
parsley thoroughly, pick off the stalks, 
leaving the large heads. Dry it very care- 
fully as, if it is left at all damp, it will 



VEGETABLES AND SALADS 123 

never become crisp. Put the parsley in the 
Chafing Dish with a tablespoon of olive oil 
or butter. As soon as the oil or butter 
ceases bubbling, take out the parsley and let 
it dry on a piece of paper. The parsley 
should remain quite green ; if it is brownish 
it is a sign that it has been fried too 
long. 

Green Peas. 

A pint of shelled peas, a tablespoon of 
butter, pepper and salt, and a good squeeze 
of lemon ; put all these in the Chafing Dish. 
Add a cupful of milk and hot up for ten 
minutes, then strain and serve. Avoid mint, 
green or otherwise. 

Chestnuts. 

Shell a score of chestnuts, cover them in 
the Chafing Dish with boiling water, and in 
four minutes take them out and remove the 
skins. Return them to the boiling water, 
add a cup of milk, pepper and salt, and 
simmer until quite tender but not soft. 



124 THE CHAFING DISH 

" Behold, the earth hath roots ; 
The bounteous housewife Nature, on each bush 
Lays her full mess before you." — Timon of Athens, 

It has been made plain, I trust, that it is 
not necessary to rely solely on the damp- 
sodden vegetables of the pre-historic cuisine. 
It is just as easy to cook them nicely as 
otherwise, and a deal more satisfactory. The 
bounteous housewife Nature overwhelms us 
with her treasures of root and sap, and it 
seems almost an outrage to neglect the 
opportunities so lavishly offered to us. 

I have just described a score or so of the 
plainer methods of cooking vegetables, simply 
as an indication of their possibilities, but the 
enterprising Chafer will find as he progresses 
in the art (and Chafing grows upon one like 
any other hobby) that there are dozens of 
others which lend themselves readily to his, 
or her, deft manipulation. 

The grandfather of Charles Darwin was a 
poetofparts,andinhis"Phytologica" he says : 

" Oft in each month, poetic Tighe ! be thine 
To dish green broccoli with savoury chine ; 
Oft down thy tuneful throat be thine to cram 
The snow-white cauliflower with fowl and ham !" 



VEGETABLES AND SALADS 125 

This is wise advice, because the green 
broccoli is far better than the white. 

There are many American vegetables which 
may be cooked without a twang. They are 
all in tins or bottles, bearing plain directions. 
Among others I can speak from personal 
experience of Sugar Corn, Green Corn, 
Oyster Corn, Boston Beans, Lima Beans, and 
Succotash. This last is a meal in itself, and 
of most excellent flavour and convenience. 
Green corn, too, reminds those who know 
the South African mealie in all its toothsome- 
ness, of many a hearty supper of Kaffir 
mealies roasted in the embers of a camp fire, 
or even in that most primitive of ovens, an 
ant-heap, which, believe it or not as you will, 
turns out better cooked meats than some of 
your very patent, very modern, very " gad- 
getty " kitchen ranges, although not better, 
I ween, than my chaste Chaffinda. 

From vegetables to salads is but one step. 
I do not see any valid reason for apologising 
for the inclusion of salads in a Chafing-Dish 
book. They are not cooked in a Chafing 
Dish, it is true, but it is part of my religion 
that no meal is complete without a salad, 



126 THE CHAFING DISH 

green for choice, but anyhow a salad. I do 
not insist on salad for breakfast, although on 
a blazing hot July day, after a swim or a 
tramp, or both, I can imagine worse things 
than an omelette, some kidneys and bacon, 
and a slice of real ham, and a green salad to 
top up with. But no dinner is really a 
dinner without a salad, and by that I do not 
mean three scraggy lettuce leaves, soused in 
vinegar, which as Salade de saison is the usual 
accompaniment to that disastrous hen, 'Poulet 
au cresson, which is a centipede as to legs and 
has no breast or liver wing. 

As this screed is, after all, a plain record 
of personal likes and dislikes, I see no reason 
for concealing the fact that I have no use 
whatever, no manner of use in the wide wide 
world, for mayonnaise with salad. The 
Americans swear by it ; I swear at it. My 
salad mixture, which goes with everything — 
absolutely everything — is simplicity itself. 
Eccoio I 



VEGETABLES AND SALADS 127 

Salad Mixture. 

Into a large bowl put half a teaspoon of 
salt, same of Paprika, a dash of black pepper, 
freshly ground by a hand-mill, and a tea- 
spoon of made English mustard. Mix them 
up well. Now add very gradually the very 
best quality of olive oil, almost drop by drop, 
to the quantity of three tablespoons, mixing 
all the time until the ingredients assume 
the consistency of cream ; now thin this 
with one tablespoon of good wine vinegar, 
and amalgamate thoroughly. That is all I 
use. 

Now and again, by way of extra titillation 
of the jaded palate, you may add half a 
tablespoon of Tarragon vinegar, herbs to 
taste, Spring onions, chives, French mustard, 
olives (French only), hard-boiled eggs, dande- 
lion leaves, nasturtium leaves, and celery 
salt. 

But there are half a dozen rules which I 
would seriously enjoin the salad mixer to 
bear in mind. 

Only use a wooden spoon and fork for 
mixing. 



128 THE CHAFING DISH 

Never cut a lettuce ; always break it with 
the fingers. 

Dry the lettuce thoroughly in a serviette 
or in a salad-basket before breaking. 

Make the salad ten minutes before eating 
it. Neither more nor less. 

Do not bother about garnishing the top of 
a salad ; see the ingredients are well mixed. 
The decoration will look after itself and be 
much more artistic if left natural than if 
fussed into geometrical designs. 

Make your mixture proportionate to your 
salad. This is a matter of intuition and 
experience combined. The test of right 
mixing is that no fluid should remain at the 
bottom of the bowl when finally mixed. 

The " fatiguing " or turning over and 
over, that is, the actual mixing of the salad, 
should be very thoroughly done for just as 
long as is bearable to the verge of impatience. 
Rub a crust of bread with garlic or onion, 
put it in the bottom of the bowl and take it 
out just before serving. This is a chafon. 

The true salad artist will never add any 
second dose of any ingredient during the 
process of mixing the sauce. I was once 



VEGETABLES AND SALADS 129 

present at a salad duel between an eminent 
Belgian violoncellist and a British banker. 
The former was an artist, the latter a well- 
meaning amateur. They used the same 
cruet-stand, and during the mixing process 
the banker politely pushed the oil and 
vinegar across to the Belgian, who bowed 
and said : " Thanks. I never add ! " The 
banker appreciated the rebuke and retired 
from the contest. Both salads were excel- 
lent. 

The old salad-proverb about the oil- 
spendthrift, the vinegar-miser, and all the 
rest of it, is too old to quote, but it 
expresses a truism aptly enough. Three to 
one is, according to my view, a fair propor- 
tion of oil to vinegar, but this, as indeed 
most things in this so-called twentieth cen- 
tury of ours, is only a matter of individual 
taste, and I have no desire to suggest that 
my opinion should be given the force of law. 
I have known a salad enthusiast who coated 
each leaf of lettuce with oil on a camel's- 
hair brush, but this I think is an exaggera- 
tion of artistry. On the other hand, the 
wild stirring of dollops of the four condi- 



I30 THE CHAFING DISH 

ments in the salad spoon, which is then 
emptied vaguely into the salad, is childish 
and inefficient. The Italians have a proverb 

that runs : 

" L'insalata non h buoti' ne Bella 
Ove non I la pimpinella.^' 

The pimpernel is our burnet. 

It is quite unnecessary to give full recipes 
for all the following salads. I have already 
indicated the mixture, and the choice of 
ingredients need only be hinted at. 

Lettuce should be young, fresh, and crisp. 
There are many varieties, the most delicate 
of which perhaps is the Romaine. 

Endive is good when quite young. It 
should be very light in colour. Do not mix 
it with lettuce. A few dandelion leaves are 
quite permissible. 

Chicory makes an excellent salad, and 
radishes mix well with it. 

Celery and Parmesan cheese go well to- 
gether. The celery must be cut into half- 
inch pieces. 

Cauliflower, cooked and cold, mixed with 
celery, or a very ftvi slices of cold cooked 
carrot, is cool and pleasant. 



VEGETABLES AND SALADS 131 

Tomatoes and lettuce go well together, 
and onions are a good addition. 

Potato salad requires firm round little 
potatoes cooked, cold, and cut into slices. 
The best kind is known as Hamburg Pota- 
toes, and they may be had at the German 
Delikatessen shops. Avoid anchovies and 
olives with potato salad, but encourage 
chives and a sprinkling of cheese. 

Celeriac. 

This is a variety of celery, sometimes 
known as Dutch celery, a tuber which has a 
quite peculiar and characteristic flavour. It 
needs no addition whatever, and is an 
excellent accompaniment to all meats. Cut 
it in slices, after boiling it for twelve 
minutes, and mix carefully with plenty of 
liquid. 

Mashed Potato Salad. 

Beat up ordinary mashed potatoes with a 
little lukewarm weak stock or warm water 
instead of milk, and no butter. Then dress 



132 THE CHAFING DISH 

them with a little chopped chive, oil and 
vinegar, pepper and salt. This can be 
endlessly varied with chopped hard-boiled 
eggs, beetroot, cucumbers, anchovies, &c. 
This salad comes from that most excellent 
compendium of quaint conceits, " More Pot- 
pourri from a Surrey Garden," by Mrs. C. 
W. Earle. 

Old-fashioned salads, according to a seven- 
teenth-century cook-book, were more diver- 
sified than ours. Among the ingredients of 
" Grand Sallets of divers compounds " were 
broom buds, pickled mushrooms, pickled 
oysters, blew figs, Virginia potato, caperons, 
crucifix pease, sage, mint, balm, burnet, 
violet leaves, red coleworts, raisins of the 
sun, charvel and ellicksander buds. Some or 
these we know under other names, but 
" blew figs " and " ellicksander buds " are 
untraceable. The list has a Rabelaisian 
smack, and gives one some idea of the crude 
admixture of flavourings which was accept- 
able to our forebears. 

In a very charming old book, " Travels in 
England in 1702," by C. P. Moritz, a 
Prussian clergyman, the following passage 



VEGETABLES AND SALADS 133 

seems quotable: "An English dinner gener- 
ally consists of a piece of half-boiled, or 
half-roasted, meat ; and a few cabbage leaves 
boiled in plain water ; on which they pour a 
sauce made of flour and butter. This, I 
assure you, is the usual method of dressing 
vegetables in England. The slices of bread 
and butter which they give you with your 
tea are as thin as poppy leaves. But there is 
another kind of bread and butter usually 
eaten with tea, which is toasted by the fire, 
and is incomparably good. You take one 
slice after the other, and hold it to the fire 
on a fork till the butter is melted, so that it 
penetrates a number of slices at once ; this is 
called toast." 

Another part of the same book describes 
the kitchen in a country inn, and gives a 
picture which seems to describe some old 
Dutch interior. " I now, for the first time, 
found myself in one of these kitchens which 
I had so often read of in Fielding's fine 
novels ; and which certainly give one, on 
the whole, a very accurate idea of English 
manners. The chimney, in this kitchen, 
where they were roasting and boiling, seemed 



134 THE CHAFING DISH 

to be taken ofF from the rest of the room, 
and enclosed by a wooden partition, the rest 
of the apartment was made use of as a 
sitting and eating room. All round on the 
sides were shelves with pewter dishes and 
plates, and the ceiling was well stored with 
provisions of various kinds, such as sugar- 
loaves, black puddings, hams, sausages, 
flitches of bacon, &c." 

A modern Dr. Syntax in search of the 
picturesque would vainly nowadays look for 
anything approaching this homely simplicity 
in any English hostelry. The modern ten- 
dency seems all directed towards spurious 
finery, meretricious decoration, and uncom- 
fortable New Art. The old inns are 
neglected, and the new hotels merely vul- 
garly gorgeous. The food is ambitious and 
basely imitative of bad French models. The 
advent of the ubiquitous motor car on old 
country roads, away from the railways, may 
in time improve matters, and revive, to a 
certain extent, the extinct glories of the old 
coaching inns ; but as yet there is little, if 
any, improvement to be marked. In the 
meanwhile, I would suggest that every 



VEGETABLES AND SALADS 135 

travelling motor car be provided with a 
Chafing Dish, and thus mitigate or improve 
the dull pretentious meals which the country 
hotel proprietor thinks proper to provide. 
The Chafing Dish and the motor car seem 
made for one another. Will somebody try 
the combination ? 

There are just a few more salads which I 
should like to recommend, premising, how- 
ever, that they are not altogether orthodox. 
By this I mean that they are not wholly com- 
posed of greenstuffs, but require the addition 
of extraneous appetisers. 

Walnuts and Green Peas. 

Boil and blanch a dozen walnuts ; break 
them in halves, mix them with a pint of 
green peas, cooked and cold, and toss them 
about in a small quantity of dressing. 

Sprouts and Chestnuts. 

Boil and skin a dozen chestnuts. Break 
them up and mix with a pint of cold cooked 
Brussels sprouts. Toss them in a small 
amount of mixture. 



136 THE CHAFING DISH 

Jardiniere. 

Almost any cold cooked vegetables. For 
choice, use equal portions of sliced potatoes, 
green peas, carrots, beans, celery, tomatoes, 
and onions. Add plenty of dressing. 

Cucumbers and Anchovies. 

Wash, scrape and dry the anchovies. Chop 
them up. Have the cucumber thinly sliced 
and thoroughly drained ; plenty of salt, and 
little mixture. Sprinkle the anchovies over 
the sliced cucumber. 

Cauliflower and Bacon. 

Dry the cauliflower and break up into 
small pieces, using all the flower and very 
little stalk or green. Cut a couple of slices 
of bacon into dice, sprinkle it about in the 
cauliflower, and use plenty of dressing. 

Bread Salad. 

Cut three slices of stale bread (crumb 
only) into half-inch squares ; same amount 



VEGETABLES AND SALADS 137 

of sliced cold cooked potatoes ; three toma- 
toes in quarters, one onion ; toss all well 
together with a good deal of dressing. This 
sounds very simple, but as Sam Weller's 
pieman said, " It's the seasoning as does it." 
Lest I be thought quite unspeakably im- 
possible in these last recipes, let me assure 
the worthy sceptics that they are in no wise 
guess-work, but one and all duly approved, 
and that I have merely taken the trouble to 
collate them and set them down here. They 
are excellent and original. I think that many 
folks will be grateful for them. 






CHAPTER- VII • 

EGGS- AMD- 
Savouries 



" The vulgar boil, the learned roast an egg." 

Pope. 

In the name of the profit : Eggs ! Although 
farming in England may spell ruin, poultry 
almost always pays, and if intelligently and 
economically managed, one rarely hears of 
the failure of a poultry-farm. We import a 
vast number of millions of eggs annually 
(many of which come to a deservedly un- 
righteous end in villainous omelettes), but it 
would be easy, with capital, initiative, and 
incubators, to produce them one and all in 
Great Britain and make the egg trade a 
national industry. 

A couple of generations ago, when any one 
walked gingerly in the street, he or she was 
said to be going at an " egg-trot," because it 



EGGS AND SAVOURIES 139 

reminded one of a good housewife riding to 
market at a jog-trot pace with eggs in her 
panniers. Let us therefore approach the 
subject of eggs at an " egg-trot." 

A good egg is never bad. That is not 
such an inept truism as it looks. A good 
egg is unspoilable, even by the worst cook. 
There are over four hundred and fifty ways 
of cooking eggs, each of which has some 
peculiar excellence denied to the others. You 
cannot even make an omelette without break- 
ing eggs, and most people find breakfast 
almost impossible without the regulation 
hen-fruit. To teach one's grandmother how 
to suck eggs is a futile labour partaking of 
juvenile presumption, but it is at least easier 
than persuading the average cook that the 
fried egg of commerce is only one out of 
scores of simple breakfast egg-dishes. 
"There is reason in roasting eggs." Even 
the most trivial culinary conjuring trick has 
some good motive for being performed in 
one way rather than in another. When 
wood fires were usual it was more common 
to roast eggs than to boil them, and great 
care was required to prevent their being " ill- 



140 THE CHAFING DISH 

roasted, all on one side," as Touchstone says 
in the play. Which is an additional reason 
for keeping strictly to the formula. Eggs 
are ticklish things to monkey with, and it is 
much easier to break them than to make 
them. 

Learned disquisitions have before now 
been written on " How to boil an egg." It 
is not in my province to touch on that 
subject. The votary of the Chafing Dish 
may be presumed to have enough common 
sense to come in out of the rain, and to be 
able to boil an egg. It is not much to ask. 
Pope, by the way, thought it vulgar to boil 
an egg, but then we are all vulgar nowadays 
— and glory in it. Neither do I propose to 
expatiate upon egg-flip, egg-nog, and kindred 
" dulceties." I will give a few plain straight- 
forward recipes for eggs in the Chafing Dish, 
and leave egg-eccentricities to my betters. I 
have only to premise that there is but one 
,kind of egg. The Best. Real new-laid 
eggs are reliable friends. All others are base 
impostors ! 



EGGS AND SAVOURIES 141 

Poached Eggs. 

The Chafing Dish should be more than 
half full of boiling water. Break each egg 
separately into a saucer and slip it steadily 
and dexterously into the Chafing Dish. 
Light the lamp, cover up the water and eggs, 
and put the dish over the lower hot-water 
pan, which should have in it a pint of hot 
water. Let it heat until the whites of the 
eggs are set ; then remove the eggs from the 
pan with the special flat implement ad hoc. 
Put the eggs on rounds of toast. Sprinkle 
them with pepper, salt and parsley, and put 
a tiny piece of butter on top of each egg. 

Scrambled Eggs. 

Beat up three eggs, whites and yolks, in a 
bowl, and add a pinch of salt. Put a good 
tablespoon of butter in the Chafing Dish, 
over a pan of hot water. When the butter 
sizzles, pour in the eggs, and stir with a 
wooden spoon very briskly for a minute and 
a half to two minutes, keeping the eggs 
from adhering to the sides and bottom of the 



142 THE CHAFING DISH 

Dish. Have rounds of toast ready, and pour 
the eggs on to them. Dust them with 
Paprika and parsley. 

It is easy and pleasant to vary plain 
scrambled eggs with a dozen odds and ends. 
Asparagus tips, for instance, bacon dice, tiny 
slicelets of ham, green peas, thin rounds of 
Brunswick sausage, broad beans, chicken 
livers, button mushrooms, tomatoes, or 
chopped nasturtium leaves. All these should 
be added, cooked of course, towards the end 
of the stirring operation, and just before 
serving. Many other ingredients might be 
suggested, but the ingenious innovator will 
be able to think these out for himself, and he 
can always christen his invention scrambled 
eggs a la quelque chose to please his own fancy 
and flatter his friends. 

Omelettes. 

An omelette should not be too lightly 
undertaken. There are few things more 
tricky, more unreliable, more human, in a 
sense, than an omelette. You may make it 
a dozen times with perfect success. It will 



EGGS AND SAVOURIES 143 

be light, frothy, ethereal, almost gossamer- 
like in its impalpable fairyhood. The 
thirteenth time you proceed on precisely the 
same lines, use the same material, and in 
every way follow the same formula, and the 
result is chaos. If there be a sex in cookery, 
omelettes must be essentially feminine. 

This is how to make an omelette. Beat 
three eggs lightly with two tablespoons of 
milk, a little salt and pepper. Put one 
tablespoon of butter in the Chafing Dish 
over the hot-water pan, and when sizzling 
hot, pour in the eggs. You must hold the 
dish in the left hand, and rapidly scrape 
away with a knife the cooked egg where 
it seems to adhere, letting the liquid portion 
follow the knife. It should be cooked in 
less than fifty seconds if the water beneath 
it is boiling. Then gently, but firmly, slip 
the knife under the left-hand edge of the 
omelette and fold it over rapidly and neatly 
to the side of the dish opposite the handle. 
Have a very hot plate ready ; reverse it on 
to the dish, turn the latter over the former 
quickly, and the omelette will (or should) 
rest on the plate. 



144 THE CHAFING DISH 

Of course all this sounds very easy, but 
it needs knack and practice — lots of both. 
When entirely successful, however, it is most 
gratifying and self-flattering. You feel a 
real cook at last, and look upon Ude, 
Car^me, Francatelli, and the other great 
names of history as brothers. AH Chafers 
go through that pleasant period when all 
goes right and nothing goes wrong. Some- 
times it lasts quite a while ; but at last, 
sooner or later, there comes a moment when 
we know we feel that we know how little 
we know. As at golf, when we never play 
so well as during our first month, even so 
is it with Chaffinda. 

The testing of eggs should not rightly be 
one of the Chafer's duties. He should be 
able to rely on his purveyor. The best eggs 
I ever had in London were provided by an 
old landlady who told me that she got them 
twice a week from the country. When I 
asked her what county they came from, she 
said, " They come all the way from Clapham 
Junction, sir ! " Anyhow, they were re- 
markably good, and I have been served with 
less reliable ones in country farmhouses. 



EGGS AND SAVOURIES 145 

This was possibly for the same reason that 
one can rarely get fish at the seaside until 
the London train comes in. 

Eggs en Cocotte. 

You must provide some of those dear 
little fireproof china cups especially made 
for the purpose. Butter these little cups. 
Put two teaspoonsful of cream into each. 
Then break very carefully an egg into each. 
Dust with pepper, salt, and parsley. Stand 
these cups in the Chafing Dish with enough 
boiling water to come half-way up the cups. 
Have the lower pan full of hot water under- 
neath. Boil up gently till the eggs are just 
set. Serve in the cups very hot, taking care 
in hauling them out of the Chafing Dish as 
they are very easily dropped 

Lady Effingham's Eggs. 

Put two slices of Gruyere cheese (not very 
thin) in the Chafing Dish with a tablespoon 
of butter. Break two eggs in a saucer and 
slide them on to the cheese ; sprinkle with 

K 



146 THE CHAFING DISH 

salt and Paprika and let it simmer (over the 
hot-water pan) till the eggs are set. Serve 
with fingers of toast. 



Newmarket Eggs. 

Put a tablespoon of butter in the Chafing 
Dish. When it sizzles add an onion cut 
into slices ; let it get well browned. Then 
throw in three fair-sized potatoes in slices. 
Pour over these the well-beaten yolks of two 
eggs, adding salt and pepper. Heat up to 
boiling-point. Serve with toast. 

Kempton Eggs. 

Cut into slices three hard-boiled eggs 
and one onion ; put the latter only in the 
Chafing Dish with a tablespoon of butter. 
Stir it, and fry the onion to a light brown, 
then sprinkle in half a tablespoon of flour, 
and add two tablespoons of milk, pepper 
and salt. Boil up and then add the 
eggs ; serve at once with grated Parmesan 
cheese. 



EGGS AND SAVOURIES 147 

Anchovy Eggs. 

Place a tablespoon of butter in the Chafing 
Dish, add half a teaspoon of dry mustard, 
two tablespoons of tomato sauce, one of 
Worcester sauce, and one of mushroom 
ketchup. Let it simmer, and then drop in 
four hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters, salted 
and peppered. Prepare four rounds of toast, 
spread them with good anchovy paste, or, 
better still, with Patum Peperium, and put 
the eggs on the toast, pouring over them 
the mixture. 

This a remarkably good dish after a dance 
in the country and a ten-mile drive home. 
If the proper preparations are made, it can 
be turned out in five minutes in the billiard- 
room, and it picks one up in a thoroughly 
businesslike and efficient manner. Those 
cold winter drives after a busy night's 
dancing, especially if the supper was good 
and frequent, demand a powerful restora- 
tive. 

Now come we to the great question of 
Welsh Rabbit. I venture to doubt whether 
Rarebit is defensible, and I have read shoals 



148 THE CHAFING DISH 

of arguments for and against. Anyhow, my 
kind is a Rabbit, and it tastes as nice — or 
nicer. 

A small boy walking across a common 
with his mother espied a bunny. " Look, 
mother, there goes a rabbit ! " " Nonsense, 
my boy, it must have been imagination." 
" Mother, is imagination white behind .'' " 

There is no imagination about a Welsh 
Rabbit. It is sternly real. But not, I 
think, quite as indigestible as generally sup- 
posed, especially if it be liberally dosed with 
Paprika, which I find to be marvellously 
digestive. A well-made Rabbit should be 
suave in flavour, not harsh, stringy, or pun- 
gent. There should be a silky sensation of 
sensuous softness, and, above all things, it 
should not tickle the palate. I fear that 
I am led to dogmatise on the rabbit, and 
to ferret out my own didactic ideas on the 
subject, but if my rabbit be carefully con- 
cocted and intelligently degustated, I am 
convinced that I shall be forgiven. 



EGGS AND SAVOURIES 149 

Welsh Rabbit. 

Use about half a pound of hard, dry, 
sound, mild cheese, without flaw or speck. 
Cut it up into tiny dice, in fact the smaller 
the better ; some indeed insist on grating 
the cheese, but I have found this to be an 
unnecessary labour. Put a tablespoon of 
butter into the dish and knead it well with 
a wooden spoon until it begins to sizzle. 
Add half a teaspoon of Paprika, rather less 
of salt, and a tablespoon of beer (anything 
except bitter). Mix all thoroughly. Turn 
in the cheese and stir it about until it gets 
as consistent as thick cream, adding two to 
three more tablespoons of beer gradually, 
and taking great care that it does not become 
lumpy or stringy. Now put in a teaspoon- 
ful of made mustard. Keep on stirring 
until bubbles appear. It is then ready. 
You should beforehand get some toasts 
ready and as soon as the bubbling is well ' 
developed plunge in the toasts and cover 
them with the cheese. Serve on very hot 
plates. Milk can be used instead of beer, 
and condiments may be added in the shape 



I50 THE CHAFING DISH 

of Worcester sauce or Tabasco, but I do 
not recommend them. Everything depends 
on regular and practically continuous stirring, 
always in one direction of course. 

If you want to turn the Welsh Rabbit into 
a Buck Rabbit, drop a poached egg upon 
each piece of toast on top of the cheese. 
Here you have the whole art of Rabbiting, 
and it is a very good thing to eat — some- 
times. 

The right and only place for Savouries 
at a dinner-party is fixed and determined by 
immutable custom, but at a Chafing-Dish 
meal, be it luncheon or supper, more latitude 
is allowed, and a savoury may pop up here 
and there at the most unexpected — and 
thereby most delightful — moment. I see 
nothing heterodox in having a savoury 
instead of hors d^ceuvres, or introducing it 
after the fish or instead of sweets. Few 
people, and those only of the baser sort, 
despise a simple savoury. It is such a 
succulent trifle, a mere mouthful of sugges- 
tion, an airy nothing that agrees with every- 
thing. There are of course savouries and 
savouries. I can only give a very few recipes, 



EGGS AND SAVOURIES 151 

but have tried to make them as diverse and 
appetising as possible. 

Ham Toast. 

A quarter of a pound of lean ham, 
chopped fine. Do not mince it. Mincing 
machines, however patent and " adjustable," 
have a way of reducing everything to an 
unholy pulp. Put the ham in the Chafing 
Dish with a teaspoon of Worcester sauce, 
half a teaspoon of good curry powder (I 
like Ventacachellum's), a small tablespoon of 
butter, three drops of Tabasco, and two 
tablespoons of milk. Mix all well, heat up 
for five minutes and then spread on hot 
fingers of toast. 

Cheese Matador. 

Put a walnut of butter into the Chafing 
Dish, also a Spanish onion sliced. Simmer 
for three minutes. Then cut a quarter of a 
pound of hard dry cheese into dice, and 
drop into the mixture ; add half a cup of 
milk and stir well till it is all thoroughly 



152 THE CHAFING DISH 

amalgamated and the cheese melted ; add 
salt and Paprika and one beaten-up egg. 
Hot up for another three minutes and serve 
with toast. 

Savoury Biscuits. 

Mix up the yolks of two eggs and two 
tablespoons of grated Parmesan cheese. You 
can buy this ready grated, but it is not as 
good as if you grate it yourself. Add half 
a teaspoon of mustard and some salt. Spread 
the mixture on thinly buttered water biscuit 
(or thin Captains), put the biscuits in the 
Chafing Dish, over boiling water, and let 
them get slowly hot. 

Braised Olives. 

Stone neatly a dozen Spanish olives. Put 
them in the Chafing Dish with enough strong 
bouillon to cover them. Add a wine-glass 
of claret and the rind of half a lemon. 
Boil up quickly, strain, and serve the olives 
on toast or heated biscuit. 



EGGS AND SAVOURIES 153 

Bombay Toast. 

A tablespoon of butter in the Chafing 
Dish ; as it melts stir in two eggs, yolks and 
whites, half a teaspoon of Paprika, the same 
of anchovy sauce, and half a dozen capers, 
chopped up. When very hot spread this 
upon rounds of buttered toast. 

Devilled Chestnuts. 

Boil half a pound of chestnuts and remove 
the shells and skins. Break them in handy 
little lumps. When cold and hard return 
them to the Chafing Dish and fry them in a 
tablespoon of butter, half a teaspoon of 
Paprika, and plenty of salt, until they are 
well cooked through. Drain and dry them 
on blotting-paper, and put a drop of Tabasco 
on each lump. 

Salted Almonds. 

Melt one and a half tablespoons of butter. 
Drop into it a quarter of a pound of blanched 
almonds, and hot up till the almonds are 



154 THE CHAFING DISH 

well burned, brown but not black. Drain 
them on blotting-paper and sprinkle them 
with plenty of salt and a little Paprika. 

The Devil. 

One can devil bones, biscuits, meat and 
fish in a Chafing Dish very nearly as well as 
on the grill. Care must be taken always to 
score the flesh across with deep incisions, so 
that the devil mixture penetrates well into 
the meat. This is the best devil mixture for 
Chafing-Dish purposes that I know. There 
may be better, but I have not come across 
them. Mix well upon a plate a teaspoon of 
mustard, the same of Worcester sauce and 
anchovy sauce, two teaspoons of olive oil and 
half a teaspoon of Paprika. Let the meat 
soak up this mixture, and then hot it up in a 
, tablespoon of butter till it almost boils. A 
chicken drumstick makes the best devil in 
the world, but biscuits dipped in the mixture 
are not to be despised, and even slices of cold 
cooked meat, beef or mutton, are very tooth- 
some if treated in the same manner. Any 
cold bird makes an excellent devil. 



EGGS AND SAVOURIES 155 

Macaroni. 

Although it may not come quite strictly 
under the head of Eggs and Savouries, this 
seems about the right place to expatiate upon 
Macaroni, the national food of Italy and the 
delight of every cultivated nation. 

Real macaroni is made of hard wheat of a 
semi-translucent kind, which is richer in 
gluten and other nitrogenous matter than 
soft wheat. Macaroni is nothing but flour 
and water mixed in a cylinder, which con- 
cocts it into stiff paste. Then it is rolled 
under a huge granite wheel which flattens it 
into a smooth mass. It is cut into squares, 
and flattened by the wheel again and again 
until it is thoroughly kneaded. The dough 
then goes into an upright metal cylinder 
closed at the lower end with a thick disc of 
copper. This is pierced with openings 
through which a plunge-piston squeezes the 
dough into threads. The threads are cut off 
at regular intervals, and hung upon wooden 
drying-rods. Real macaroni is tender, yellow- 
ish, rough in texture, and elastic. It breaks 
with a clean, porcelainlike fracture. When 



156 THE CHAFING DISH 

it boils it swells to twice its size, and does 
not become sticky, but keeps its tubular 
form without collapse. It will keep any 
length of time in a dry cool place. 

There are many agreeable variations on 
the macaroni theme, some of which suggest 
music rather than cooking. Everybody 
knows Vermicelli, but among the lesser 
known but equally admirable kinds are 
Tagliatelli, Lasagnete, Fuselli, Bicorni, 
Candele, Cannelloni, Pennoni, Capelli di 
Angelo, and many more. Each has its 
own little special peculiarity. All are alike 
excellent. 

Tagliatelli. 

Perhaps the handiest for Chafing-Dish 
purposes is Tagliatelli. Boil two pints of 
water in the Dish, put in half a pound of 
Tagliatelli, boil eight minutes, then strain. 
Return to the Dish, add a tablespoon of 
grated Parmesan cheese, and the same of 
butter. Toss round and round until well 
mixed, and serve very hot. Tomatoes mix 
well with macaroni, and so do mushrooms ; 



EGGS AND SAVOURIES 157 

but the real macaroni-lover will prefer it by 
itself, accompanied always, of course, by 
plenty of cheese. Mustard mixes well with 
it, but be very chary of the salt, for it is 
already salted during the process of prepara- 
tion. To make macaroni au gratin, which 
seems (unaccountably enough) to be the only 
way in which it is served in nine British 
households out of ten, the top of the cooked 
macaroni must be well covered with grated 
Parmesan cheese, and then carefully browned 
with a salamander. 

Ravioli. 

Another most useful Italian preparation is 
Ravioli, which is compounded of a variety 
of good things. As Leporello says in Don 
Giovanni: " Madamina, il catalogo h questo !" 
Eggs, Macaroni, Paste, Pork, Chicken, 
Vegetables, and Cheese. It is a sort of 
White Knight portmanteau food, and if 
quite fresh (it is best in summer) is rightly 
termed " A dinner in one course " — if you 
cook it badly you may omit one letter in the 
last word. 



158 THE CHAFING DISH 

This is how to prepare Ravioli with the 
help of Chaffinda. To two pints of boiling 
water in the Chafing Dish put a quarter of a 
pound of Ravioli ; boil for ten minutes, then 
strain. Return to the dish ; add half a 
teaspoon of butter, the same of grated 
Parmesan cheese, and hot it up for three 
minutes. Additional zest may be given, 
though it is by no means necessary, by 
cooking with the Ravioli a few fresh mush- 
rooms, tomatoes, or even anchovies or olives. 
The best Ravioli I have found in London 
come from the Vegetable Meal Company of 
Soho. 

With Macaroni or Ravioli I always sug- 
gest the drinking of Chianti, or Lacrima 
Christi. The former can often be obtained 
of quite good quality, not too rough or fiery. 
As to the latter, it is rare to find it drinkable. 
As a rule it is impossible. But the combi- 
nation of food and wine is a good memory- 
reviver of a week at Genoa. 




" Like as, to make our appetites more keen, 
With eager compounds we our palates urge ; 
As, to prevent our maladies unseen. 
We sicken, to shun sickness, when we purge ; 
Even so, being full of your ne'er cloying sweetness 
To bitter sauces did I frame my feeding." 

Shakespeare (Sonnet cxviii.). 

Madame de StaEl said that she did not 
believe in ghosts — but that she was afraid of 
them. After the same fashion, I do not al- 
together believe in sauces, or perhaps I ought 
to say in any save the very simplest ; but I 
fully recognise their great value in the assimi- 
lation of food. 

Many dishes, without their special sauces, 
would be like a well-known song sung with- 
out an accompaniment. However beautifully 
delivered, no one, be he never so musical, 



i6o THE CHAFING DISH 

could honestly say that he enjoyed Schubert's 
"Erlkonig," unaccompanied. The accompani- 
ment is so much a part of the artistic whole 
that to separate them would be sheer van- 
dalism. Something of the same intimate 
oneness exists in cookery. Who would care 
to eat lamb divorced from mint sauce, or 
boiled mutton without the necessary caper 
sauce, or goose minus apple sauce ? 

At the same time it is a culinary axiom 
that the less sauce used the better. A dish — 
any dish — " covered in sauce " is an abomina- 
tion. We have the august authority of Pliny 
for moderation and simplicity. " Their best 
and most wholesome feeding is upon one 
dish, and no more, and the same plaine and 
simple : for surely this huddling of many 
meats one upon another of divers tastes is 
pestiferous. But sundrie sauces are more 
dangerous than that." This is Holland's 
translation. 

Another point worthy of consideration is 
that sauce is to a great extent a geographical 
expression. What may be most excellent in 
Madrid is wholly out of place in Inverness ; 
and what is nice at Nice is nasty at Norwich, 



SAUCES i6i 

Insufficient account, I venture to think, 
is taken of the influence of climate upon 
national food, and it is often difficult if not 
impossible to acclimatise foreign fare to 
British stomachs, not because of anything 
inherent in the food, but simply as a matter 
of latitude. It is an historical commonplace 
that in the bleak cold north of Europe boar's 
flesh was found more to man's taste than 
that of the bull or bear, because it is fatter, 
richer, and produces much more heat. For 
this very reason in the South and East of 
Europe the flesh of swine is an abomination. 
In the Scandinavian Edda we are told that a 
boar was killed every night for the food of 
the warriors who feasted in high Valhalla. 
The bones were all preserved, together with 
the hide and head, and in the morning they 
were put together and re-endowed with life. 
The name of this huge pig was Scehrimner, 
the cauldron in which it was boiled was 
called Eldhrimner, and the cook Andhrimner. 

Both bear-ham and boar-ham are delicacies 
to this day in the North of Europe. 

Much depends, too, upon the cooking ; bad 
cooking is waste, both of money and comfort. 

L 



1 62 THE CHAFING DISH 

Those whom God has joined in matrimony, 
ill-cooked joints and worse-cooked potatoes 
have often put asunder. In sauces, above 
all things, careful cooking, implicit keeping 
to the exact formulae of recipes, and a re- 
straint of all imagination, are immensely 
necessary. Not even the greatest artist can 
afford to juggle with sauces. They are fixed, 
immutable, and unalterable. A very favourite 
expression in French culinary manuals is the 
injunction to the cook : Travaillez Men votre 
sauce. The amateur sauce-maker would do 
well to bear this in mind. The sauce must 
be well worked, amalgamated, combined ; 
otherwise it is a mere mess, lacking cohesion 
and perfection. 

It is alleged of the incomparable Soyer 
that he said that sauces are to cookery what 
grammar is to language. Whether he really 
said so or not matters little. Some of the 
Soyer sauces are classics to this day, and not 
to be lightly imitated — especially on the 
Chafing Dish. 

Let it be borne in mind that each and 
every sauce should have a character of its 
own. Many otherwise quite virtuous cooks 



SAUCES 163 

live and die in the belief that they cannot 
make a sauce sufficiently savoury without 
putting into it everything that happens to be 
available, thinking, ignorantly enough^ that 
every addition is bound to be an improve- 
ment. 

There are only two real foundation sauces 
— meres sauces, or grandes sauces, as the 
French call them — the white and the brown 
sauce. AH other sauces are more or less 
based on these two. 

The great Car6me resigned the position of 
Master of the Mouth to George IV. after 
only a few weeks' service, and at an hono- 
rarium of ;^iooo a year, because he could 
not bear the English climate. His culinary 
swan-song took the form of a wondrous 
sauce, now alas ! lost, which he called la 
derniere pensie de Car erne. 

A quite excellent and easily prepared 
sauce, which the very poorest households can 
make, and which will give zest to the simplest 
meal, is that described in the Delamere 
Cookery Book. This is the recipe for Plea- 
sant Companionship sauce. A kind word 
will stir up the dormant appetite, while a 



1 64 THE CHAFING DISH 

harsh one will extinguish it, and, what is worse, 
will check the digestion of nutriment already 
taken. Such sauce may be regarded as 
Moral Sauce. 

Reasoning from these winged words, we 
may infer that the remark so often heard 
from the mouths of little girl-children in 
the street : " Now, I won't 'ave none o' your 
sauce ! " must really mean that there is a lack 
of Moral Sauce in the family circle. 

In the recipes for the following sauces, 1 
have purposely kept the ingredients as simple 
as possible ; they are all reliable and appeti- 
sing. As to which sauce appertains especially 
to which fish or meat, I do not propose to 
enter. That is a matter of taste, experience, 
and individuality, and I need hardly add that 
a white sauce does not go well with brown 
meat, nor brown sauce with white meat. 
Such admonitions are surely unnecessary to 
the advanced Chafist. i 

Butter Sauce. 

Two tablespoons of butter, the same of 
flour ; melt and mix together in the Dish, 



SAUCES 165 

bring to boiling-point and allow to boil up 
for half a minute, then pour in a cupful of 
boiling water, to reduce the same to the con- 
sistency of cream ; boil up again, stirring all 
the time, add a squeeze of lemon before 
serving. 

White Sauce. 

Mix well in the Chafing Dish two table- 
spoons of flour, one of butter, a small grating 
of nutmeg, a little pepper and salt ; add a 
tumbler of milk ; hot it up, stirring the 
while, and strain before using. 

Brown Sauce. 

Two tablespoons of butter. Heat and stir 
until it is brown and sizzling, then add a 
tablespoon of Tarragon vinegar, the same of 
Worcester sauce, half a tablespoon of chopped 
capers, a teaspoon of anchovy sauce, and a ' 
wine-glass of bouillon. Boil up all this for 
three minutes. 



1 66 THE CHAFING DISH 

Piquant Sauce. 

Mix up in the Dish a teaspoon of each 
of the following, chopped finely : gherkins, 
capers, shallots (or mild onions) ; add half a 
teaspoon of black pepper and a tablespoon of 
vinegar. Boil this for three minutes, then 
add a wine-glass of bouillon and a tablespoon 
of " brown thickening " — which is sold ready 
made by grocers — and a dash of anchovy 
sauce. Boil up again and skim the surface 
before using. 

Maltre d'Hotel Sauce. 

Mix up well two tablespoons of butter 
with one of flour, a grating of nutmeg, half 
a teaspoon of black pepper, the same of salt, 
rather more of chopped parsley, and a good 
squeeze of lemon. Put all this in the Chafing 
Dish with a tablespoon of milk. Stir it until 
it boils up, and then serve very hot. 

Ravigote or Remoulade Sauce. 

These are to all intents and purposes the 
same sauce, save that R6moulade has an 



SAUCES 167 

added dose of oil and mustard. Mix a 
tablespoon of flour with the same of butter, 
a grating of nutmeg, half a teaspoon of 
pepper, the same of salt, the same of chopped 
parsley, and a good squeeze of lemon. Put 
this in the Chafing Dish with a tablespoon of 
bouillon, boil it up and skim it. Now mix 
up separately a tablespoon each of Tarragon 
and Chili vinegar and Worcester sauce, with 
a teaspoon of anchovy sauce. Boil up this 
mixture, and after two minutes' boiling 
add it to the former mixture and combine 
the two. 

Reform Sauce. 

A cupful of bouillon in the Dish, add a 
wine-glass of port (or claret, but port is more 
orthodox), half as much Worcester sauce, a 
teaspoon of anchovy sauce, and a full table- 
spoon of red currant jelly. Boil it all up for 
three minutes, and skim before using. 

Soubise Sauce. 

Peel and slice four onions ; put them in 
the Dish with a teaspoon of butter, a little 



1 68 THE CHAFING DISH 

nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Cover up and stew 
very slowly until the onions are almost dis- 
solved. Then add two tablespoons of flour, 
a cold cooked potato cut into dice, a cupful 
of bouillon, and the same of milk. Stir and 
boil for three minutes. Then rub the sauce 
through a sieve and hot up again before 
serving. 

Bread Sauce. 

A tablespoon of bread-crumbs in the Dish 
with an onion, pepper and salt, a cup of milk, 
and half a tablespoon of butter. Hot up 
and stir for four minutes. Take out the 
onion before using. 

Mustard Sauce. 

To the foregoing plain butter sauce add a 
teaspoon of made mustard, a tablespoon of 
Chili vinegar, a squeeze of lemon, and a tea- 
spoon of anchovy sauce. Make and serve 
very hot. 



SAUCES 169 

Poor Man's Sauce. 

Chop up a fair-sized onion in the Chafing 
Dish with half a tablespoon of butter. Fry 
to a light brown, then add a cup of bouillon, 
a teaspoon of vinegar, pepper and salt, and a 
teaspoon of chopped parsley. Stir vigorously 
and add gradually half a tablespoon of flour, 
and another half-tablespoon of butter. Boil 
up the sauce for two minutes. 

Madeleine Sauce. 

Put in the Dish a teaspoon of bread-crumbs, 
two shredded shallots, a walnut of butter, a 
teaspoon of vinegar and two tablespoons of 
bouillon. Boil this for three minutes with 
pepper and salt. The sauce should not be 
too thick. 

Black Butter Sauce. 

A walnut of butter in the dish ; heat it 
till it is thoroughly brown, then add a table- 
spoon of vinegar, pepper and salt, and hot it 
up again. 



lyo THE CHAFING DISH 

Italian Sauce. 

Put in the dish the peel of a quarter of a 
lemon, three sprigs of parsley, one of thyme, 
four button mushrooms, cut up small, a 
walnut of butter, and a suspicion of garlic. 
Hot up, and when all is well mixed pour in 
half a cup of bouillon ; let it get thick, but 
not boil. Then take out the garlic, and add 
half a walnut of butter. 

Onion Sauce. 

Cut up two good-sized onions into slices. 
Simmer them gently with a tablespoon of 
butter and two slices of ham, one fat slice 
and one lean slice, a teaspoon of flour, salt, 
pepper, a pinch of sugar, a wine-glass of 
bouillon, and a good squeeze of lemon juice. 
Hot up for three minutes. 

Gubbins' Sauce. 

This is the best sauce I know, and I have 
tried many, for grills or anything in that way. 
I copy it verbatim (and without permission) 



SAUCES 171 

from that most excellent food-book entitled 
" Cakes and Ale," by Mr. Edward Spencer. 
Gubbins' Sauce is peculiarly adaptable to the 
Chafing Dish, and is made in this wise : Fill 
the lower hot-water dish with boiling water. 
Keep it so. Melt in the Chafing Dish 
proper a lump of butter the size of a large 
walnut. Stir into it, when melted, two tea- 
spoonsful of made mustard, then a dessert- 
spoonful of vinegar, half that quantity of 
Tarragon vinegar, and a tablespoonful of 
cream — Devonshire or English. Season with 
salt, black pepper and cayenne, according to 
the (presumed) tastes and requirements of 
the breakfasters. So far the recipe. I 
should add that although the ingenious 
inventor puts Gubbins' Sauce with a grill 
among his breakfast allurements, it is by no 
means necessary to confine it to that meal. I 
have found it excellent at midnight — and 
later — with devilled kidneys, and it is not to 
be despised at any time of the day when you 
feel that way inclined. 

" The Gastronomic Regenerator : a Sim- 
plified and entirely New System of Cookery," 
by Monsieur A. Soyer of the Reform Club, 



172 THE CHAFING DISH 

London, 1846. Such is the mouth-filling 
title of one of the most interesting and 
curious works of the last century. The two- 
page dialogue with Lord M(arcus) H(ill), 
and the extraordinary recipe for " The 
Celestial and Terrestrial Cream of Great 
Britain," are in themselves inimitable in 
their quaint pomposity. Maga for August 
1846 reviews the work kindly and good- 
humouredly, and says that the " Gastro- 
nomic Regenerator " reminds them of no 
book so much as the " Despatches of Arthur 
Duke of Wellington." It may be a matter 
of dispute, adds Maga, whether Welling- 
ton or Soyer acquired his knowledge in the 
face of the hotter fire. Although Soyer was 
comic in his pompous affectation it must not 
be forgotten that he did splendid work in 
the Crimea in feeding the sick and wounded. 
Also his sauces are master works. And for 
these two things much may be forgiven 
him. 

The foregoing sauces are best described 
as the regulars. There are plenty of others, 
mostly of a rather elaborate description, 
which those more experienced than myself 



SAUCES 173 

must describe. I will content myself with 
adding quite a few irregular or freak sauces, 
if I may use the expression. 

Fisherman's Sauce. 

This is a rather rich mixture, adapted for 
fresh-water fish. After a decent day's sport 
with the tricksome Mayfly, the quarter of an 
hour just before dinner may profitably be 
employed in concocting it. Half a pint of 
cream, or milk, but cream is better, two 
tablespoons of walnut ketchup, home made 
for choice, and one tablespoon of anchovy 
sauce. Boil these up for five minutes, and 
just before serving add a small walnut of 
butter, a teaspoon of flour, a squeeze of 
lemon, and a pinch of cayenne. Stir up all 
together, and serve very hot. It is the best 
fresh-water fish-sauce going. 

Bigarade Sauce. 

This is essentially the wild-duck sauce, 
and is a welcome and agreeable variant on 
the stereotyped port-wine sauce. Pare the 



174 THE CHAFING DISH 

rind of two oranges, shred the rind thinly, 
and boil up for five minutes in as little water 
as possible. Set the rind aside. Melt a 
walnut of butter in the Dish, mix it with half 
a tablespoon of flour, and stir it till it begins 
to burn ; add a cupful of bouillon, pepper 
and salt, the squeezed juice of both oranges, 
and a teaspoon of soft white sugar. Now 
put in the shredded rinds, boil up for two 
minutes, and serve with the duck. If you 
have not time to make this sauce, mix a glass 
of port wine, a dash of cayenne, and a squeeze 
of lemon. Slice the breast of the duck and 
pour this mixture over it. A very useful 
adjunct to wild duck is a simple orange 
salad. Divide two or three oranges into 
sections, dress them with oil, vinegar, pepper 
and salt, and eat it as you would any ordinary 
salad. 

Perigueux Sauce. 

This is simply Truffle Sauce, and appeals 
mainly to the vulgar-minded. It is made 
thus : Chop up two truffles very finely 
Put them in the Chafing Dish with a glass 



SAUCES 175 

of sherry and a walnut of butter, and boil 
for five minutes ; add pepper and salt and a 
squeeze of lemon. I am of opinion that 
truffles (which the ancients thought were the 
product of thunder) should only be eaten in 
one way, and that is en serviette^ cooked in 
hot wood ashes and eaten with praise and 
thanksgiving. The flavour of truffles I take 
to be one of the most perfect in the whole 
category of food-stufFs. Their indiscriminate 
use in shreds, choppings, patterns, and for 
ornament, I consider to be a capital sin. 
The charcutier is mostly to blame for this ; 
any old thing dressed up aux truffes he 
considers a delicacy. One day a band of 
knowledgeable eaters will slay all charcutiers. 

Truffles suggest pigs ; pigs suggest, to 
me, Berkshire ; and Berkshire a certain witty 
lady who, speaking of a local magnate, a 
self-made man, and a very wealthy one too, 
but who retained his awfully uncouth man- 
ners, described him as a wild boar whom 
civilisation had turned into a pig. I fear 
me there are many such. 

One of the English Kings died of a 
surfeit of lampreys, and one of the French 



176 THE CHAFING DISH 

Ministers of a surfeit of truffles, which were 
also alleged to have mainly contributed to 
the demise of the famous gourmand Bequet, 
who was the predecessor of Jules Janin on 
the Dibats, and on whom Roger de Beauvoir 
wrote this epitaph : 

" Cy-git Bequet, le franc glouton 

Qui but tout ce qu'il eut de rente ; 
Son gilet n'avait qu'un bouton, 
Son nez en avait plus de trente ! " 

An ex-chef to whom I told this story of 
Bequet was profoundly moved, and said 
simply : " It must have been a beautiful 
death ! " 





o»mn- 



" And sweets grown common lose their dear delight." 
Shakespeare (Sonnet cii.). 

The warm glow of virtuous satisfaction 
induced by the knowledge that one has done 
what was expected of one is my sole excuse 
for the contents of this chapter. I have no 
sweet tooth, and my experience in the 
cooking of sweets has been limited to the 
few recipes which come later on. Even 
these I would rather have omitted, because 
it is so easy to buy klairs, petits fours, and 
other " dulceties " wherewith to finish oiF a 
Chafing-Dish meal, but it is just on the 
confines of possibility that this book may be 
read by a lady — or, if I am lucky, by two 
or even three — ^and I should be indeed 
accounted a poor instructor if I omitted 

M 



178 THE CHAFING DISH 

sweets from my curriculum. " I humbly 
beg pardon of heaven, and the lady," as 
Mr. Pepys said when he kissed the cook. 

" Give the bairns pudding in plenty, again 
say I " — so wrote Sir Walter Scott, and I am 
heartily at one with him, but Chaffinda does 
j not accommodate herself to the fabrication 
of pudding — and, besides, children ought to 
be in bed when supper-time brings the 
Chafing Dish on the table. Baking is of 
course impossible, and boiling in a cloth 
equally so. I have already said that Chaf- 
finda — being so nearly human — has her limi- 
tations, and these are two of them, which I, 
for one, in no wise regret. Nevertheless, 
pudding is a great institution — in its proper 
place — which is childhood. 

Our national Jack Pudding was a common 
object of whilom country fairs, a sort of 
typical buffoon who performed pudding 
tricks on a stage ; one of them being to 
swallow a number of yards of black pud- 
dings amidst yokel plaudits. Curiously 
enough, and this is an etymological puzzle 
well worth following up, the typical buffoon 
of most European countries is christened 



SWEETS AND ODDMENTS 179 

after the commonest article of the daily food 
of the people. France has her Jean Potage ; 
Germany, Hanswurst ; Italy, Macaroni ; and 
Holland, Pickel Herringe. This can hardly 
be a coincidence. 

The learned Dr. Thudichum wisely says : 
" The state of culture of every nation can be 
estimated comparatively by its confectionery, 
even when we know little of its cookery, for 
confectionery is the most advanced and 
refined part of cookery, and thus enables an 
expert to draw a conclusion backwards 
regarding the kind of cookery out of which 
it originated." 

This is certainly true to a limited extent, 
but to attempt a rough and ready analysis 
on these lines is like dissecting a humming- 
bird with a hatchet. Generalisations are as 
dangerous as July oysters. 

Apple Fritters. 

Now for my sweets. The first one on the 
list is the familiar Apple Fritter, or "Beignet 
de Tommes. It is quite easily cooked, 
especially if a little care be taken over the 



i8o THE CHAFING DISH 

concoction of the all-important matter of 
batter. 

Begin by carefully peeling four apples, 
fairly large ones for choice, then cut them 
into slices, about one-eighth of an inch thick, 
and take out the cores. Now make the 
batter. Put four tablespoons of flour in a 
basin with half a teaspoon of salt. Pour 
one tablespoon of oil on to half a tumbler of 
tepid water. They will not mix of course. 
Add this gradually to the flour, stirring it 
well. Next beat up two whites of egg to a 
very stifi^ froth, and stir it lightly into the 
flour. The batter is then ready for use. 
The eggs should not be added until you are 
quite ready to make the fritters. Now with 
a skewer or fork take up the apple rings, one 
by one, dip them in the batter, see that they 
are well covered, and then drop them into 
the Chafing Dish in which you have heated 
two tablespoons of butter to boiling-point. 
Fry the apples until they are soft, and of a 
golden brown colour. Drain them on 
kitchen paper, and sprinkle them with a little 
cas or sugar. 



SWEETS AND ODDMENTS i8i 

Stewed Apples. 

Apples, plainly stewed in slices, in milk 
and sugar, and then served on a bed of rice, 
are very satisfactory. The experimenting 
Chafist will find that sweets can very often be 
adapted so as to be suitable for the Chafing 
Dish. But always rehearse your impromptus 
before trying them in public. 

Stewed Rhubarb. 

Cut a pound of fresh sweet rhubarb into 
two-inch lengths, put it in the Chafing 
Dish with a tumbler of water, the peel of one 
lemon, and a tablespoon of soft white sugar. 
Let it boil up until the rhubarb is quite soft, 
and then either serve hot, or — preferably — 
let it get quite cold and serve with clotted 
cream. 

Almost any stoneless fruit can be cooked 
in the same way. Gooseberries, currants, 
strawberries, and raspberries all make excel- 
lent compote, but care must be taken that 
the fruit does not get pulpy : it should be 
quite soft, but retain its proper shape. 



1 82 THE CHAFING DISH 

Quite ripe fruit is not so desirable as fruit 
that is just going to be ripe. 

Fried Pineapple. 

Cut a smallish pine into half-inch slices, 
paring the skin, of course, and split in half 
three or four ordinary penny sponge cakes. 
Fry these latter in the Chafing Dish in a 
tablespoon of butter till they are light brown 
on both sides. Take them out and keep 
them hot. Fry the pine slices in a like 
amount of butter and their own juice. Pour 
over them a wine-glassful of brandy and 
serve on the browned sponge cake. Cream 
may be added, but it is not at all necessary. 

Coffee Chestnuts. 

Shell a dozen chestnuts, and boil them for 
five minutes, then remove the skins. Put 
them back in the Chafing Dish with enough 
fresh water to cover them, and a tablespoon 
of soft white sugar, boil them until they are 
soft. Take them out and drain them, but 
do not break them up. Now put in the 



SWEETS AND ODDMENTS 183 

Chafing Dish the yolk of one egg, another 
tablespoon of soft white sugar, half a teacup 
of strong black cofFpe, a liqueur of brandy 
and a tablespoon of milk or cream. Keep 
on stirring till just upon boiling, then pour 
over the chestnuts, and serve hot. 

It is not requisite to add brandy or other 
spirits to the foregoing dishes. It certainly 
tends to completeness of flavour, and, espe- 
cially with cooked fruits, seems to bring out 
a subtle aroma or bouquet, but many most 
estimable gourmets dispense with all spirits 
in cookery, and are none the less well fed. 
Spirits should never be given in food for the 
young. 

A Surrey curate opened the Sunday School 
one day with the well-known hymn, " Little 
drops of water, little grains of sand." In 
the middle of the first verse he stopped the 
singing, and complained strongly of the half- 
hearted manner in which it was sung. He 
made a fresh start. "Now then," he 
shouted, " little drops of water, and for 
goodness sake put some spirit into it ! " 
And he wore a blue ribbon in his button- 
hole too ! 



1 84 THE CHAFING DISH 

I should have liked to give the full recipe 
for a seventeenth-century " Quelque-Shose," 
according to Master Robert May's cook-book. 
The ingredients read temptingly — if some- 
what lavish in quantity. Forty eggs are 
required, which are to be made in the form 
of omelets, which are to be " rolled up like 
a wafer " and served with " white wine, sugar, 
and juyce of lemon." Another recipe of the 
same artist was for " Pie Extraordinary, or 
Bride Pie, which was made of " severall com- 
pounds, being of severall distinct pies on one 
bottom." At a rough guess this may have 
been the forerunner of our latter-day Bride- 
cakes, with their superimposed layers of 
almond paste, and consolidated indigestion. 
It is always marvellous to me that there are 
so few sudden deaths after a wedding, par- 
ticularly if the cut cake has been handed 
about promiscuously. 

Bananas contain three times as much 
nourishment as meat or potatoes, and as a 
food are declared to be superior to bread. 
They are as good raw as cooked, and my 
only advice is to take care to buy the smaller, 
more delicate kinds, and to avoid the grosser 



SWEETS AND ODDMENTS 185 

plantains, which are musty and flavourless. 
The kind known as " Lady's Fingers " are 
the best of all. 

Banana Cream. 

Tear off a strip of skin from each of half 
a dozen bananas. Put them in the Dish with 
a tablespoon of milk, and a sprinkle of soft 
sugar. Heat them up until the skins are 
quite brown and the fruit soft and pulpy. 
Then strip the skins, add some more sugar, 
and serve with sponge-cake fingers. 

Rice Milk. 

Put in the Chafing Dish a teacupful of 
clean boiled rice, rather more than a pint of 
milk, a small stick of cinnamon, and a bay 
leaf. Add a heaped tablespoon of soft white 
sugar, and a suspicion of vanilla. Boil up 
very slowly, and remove spices before serv- 
ing. 



1 86 THE CHAFING DISH 

Skansk Grot. 

There is a very good Swedish pudding, 
known as Skansk Gr5t, which is made in the 
following wise : Boil in the Chafing Dish 
half a pound of clean rice, with the peel of a 
lemon, and half a stick of cinnamon, and a 
cup of milk. Just before it comes to the 
boil add four apples, sliced and cored but 
not peeled, and a handful of stoned raisins, a 
tablespoon of sifted sugar, and a wine-glass of 
sherry. Boil all this for eight minutes, then 
take out the lemon peel and the cinnamon 
before serving. This Skansk GrOt can be 
eaten hot or cold, with or without cream or 
milk. It is good anyway. 

Stuffed Figs. 

StufF a quarter of a pound of good pulled 
figs with blanched almonds, split in half. 
Put in the Chafing Dish a tablespoon of soft 
white sugar, a teaspoon of lemon juice, and 
a wine-glass of claret. Heat this up, but do 
not boil. Add the figs, cover up, and cook 
for eight minutes, when they ought to be 
quite tender and ready to serve. 



SWEETS AND ODDMENTS 187 

Whisky Apples. 

Peel and core, but do not cut up, four 
largeish apples, not necessarily cooking ones ; 
in fact sweet eating apples are better. Put 
them in the Chafing Dish with six table- 
spoons of soft white sugar, the rind and juice 
of half a lemon, and an inch stick of cin- 
namon, a tiny bit of vanilla, and half a 
tumbler of whisky. Let this simmer over 
a low flame for a good half-hour, till the 
apples are soft. When quite done put 
them on a hot dish and pour the sauce 
over them. 

There is an old tradition among whist 
players to the effect that there are at the 
present moment seven hundred and fourteen 
Englishmen wandering in destitution upon 
the continent of Europe, because they would 
not lead trumps when they held five. I do 
not desire to find myself in a like case, so I 
have played my trumps, and must abide by 
the consequences. I do not propose to 
invent impossible sweets which I have not 
tested in the Chafing Dish, give them high- 
falutin' titles, and palm them off on unsus- 
pecting and all-confiding Chafing students. 



1 88 THE CHAFING DISH 

Let them turn inventors themselves, and my 
blessing go with them ! 

I have purposely said little or nothing on 
the subject of appropriate drinks to accom- 
pany Chaffinda's efforts, because that is, to a 
certain extent, a personal matter. At the 
same time it may be useful to know that it 
is very easy to mature cheap claret. The 
trick is French, and fairly reliable. It happens 
sometimes that the ordinary dinner claret of 
commerce leaves something to be desired in 
the way of flavour and palatability. It may 
be sour, acrid, harsh, biting, vinegary, and 
half a dozen other things, all unpleasant. 
Add to a glass of such ordinary wine a tea- 
spoonful of very hot water. The effect is 
usually magical. The wine seems ten years 
older. It becomes softer, mellower, suaver, 
and really almost drinkable. Le petit vin 
bleu du fays becomes almost a cru. 

Some people drink coffee after dinner, and 
eke after lunch, if they have time — and lunch. 
Others use it as a barometer. You can do 
both, if you know how. It is very simple. 
The coffee must be very hot. Drop a lump 
of sugar into the cup, and before stirring it 



SWEETS AND ODDMENTS 189 

observe how the bubbles rise. If they rush 
towards the middle of the cup and meet, then 
it is going to be fine weather. If they re- 
main close to the edge of the cup it will rain 
or snow. If they separate but wander about 
vaguely, then the weather will be changeable. 
This barometer is not infallible, but it has 
been known to be accurate. Try it. Caf6 
frequenters on the boulevards spend hours in 
checking the prognostications of their coffee 
by the weather reports in the papers." 

I should like to give a few final hints on 
Chafing-Dish party-giving, the result of my 
own experience, which has been both bitter 
and sweet. Imprimis : " Don't ask too many 
people," as H. J. Byron said on his deathbed, 
when his coachman told him that one of his 
horses was ailing and he thought he had 
better give him a ball. " You should al- 
ways be two," quoth the Abb6 Morellet, " to 
eat a truffled turkey. It is my invariable 
practice. I am going to dine off one to-day. 
We shall be two — the turkey and myself." 

A fellow feeding makes us wondrous kind, 
and I do not for a moment suggest that 
Chafing-Dish meals should always be soli, far 



190 THE CHAFING DISH 

from it ; a duet is delightful, a trio tactful, 
and a quartet quieting. I cannot advise 
going beyond that number. Chaffinda is 
always present, of course, but she does not 
count as company, she is merely the hand- 
maiden, the geisha, the tutelary genius 
hovering over the meal. 

I have already enjoined the absolute 
necessity of rehearsal; leave nothing to chance. 
If you want to make your little efFect, see 
that it is properly stage-managed : your 
properties ready, your limes in working 
order, and your band parts ready and com- 
plete. "In the green salad days of my 
youth, when I rarely spoke aught but the 
truth," I tried more than once to dazzle my 
guests with unrehearsed effects, but in every 
case the result was dire failure. All that 
sort of thing is magnificent, but it is not 
cookery. 

Again, do not attempt too elaborate a bill 
of fare. Be pre-Raphaelite in your attention 
to detail rather than Academic in your mass 
of lavish decoration. Of two evils choose 
the prettier, and prefer a discreet little meal 
of soup, meat, vegetable and savoury, to an 



SWEETS AND ODDMENTS 191 

elaborate programme which defeats its own 
ends, and clogs the appetite. 

It is such much better form to be 
simple, poor and proud — besides, it costs less. 
About forty years ago the late Lord Sidney 
Godolphin Osborn wrote a letter on the 
growing love of luxury to the Times, in the 
course of which he said : " The wealthy per 
force of their positions must have large 
expensive establishments ; they are doomed 
to live in show houses ; they are the proper 
consumers of the produce of the decorative 
arts ; but they yet have to eat, and here 
comes the question. How can they eat in 
character ? How can they dine up to their 
pictures, sculpture, plate, and music?" 

The answer is easy enough. They can 
never dine up to their pictures, because 
they are usually dyspeptic. 





" I had some hopes of the cook at first, but when 
I talked to her tightly and closely, I could make 
nothing of her : she was all wiggle-waggle, and 
I could never persuade her to be categorical." 

Dr. Johnson ("D'Arblay's Memoirs"). 

Some of us have been to school. It was 
usually a long time ago. Still, here and there 
a man with a memory may recollect that 
when Achilles, in the "Iliad," has granted 
the request of the unhappy Priam in refer- 
ence to the dead body of his son, his next 
remark to the old man is an eminently prac- 
tical and sensible one : " Let us now go to 
dinner !" It has struck me that this classical 
allusion may have been one of the reasons for 
the erection of the Achilles statue at Hyde 
Park Corner ; just to remind late dawdlers in 



AMENITIES OF THE TABLE 193 

the Park that dinner-time and dressing-tide 
wait for no man or woman. 

I have already had the presumption to 
suggest that we eat too often and too much 
and too late and too elaborately ; this has 
emboldened me to further frankness. A 
French friend who " knew himself" in dining 
matters said to me once : " En Angleterre on 
se nourrit bien, mais on ne dine pas." He 
was both right and wrong. Right as regards 
the very pseudo-French cookery of the 
affluent middle-class, wrong as regards the 
best restaurants and hotels. 

Buckle, in his " History of Civilisation," 
following Cabanis, considers food as one of the 
four physical agents most powerfully influ- 
encing the human race. Men's manners and 
morality, their customs and condition, depend 
mainly on what they eat. The boldness of 
the Norseman and the timidity of the Ben- 
galee are justly due to their respective pre- 
ference for msat or vegetables, for carbona- 
ceous or nitroge lous diet. Slavery in India 
is the direct result of rice, in Egypt of dates,^ 
of maize in Mexico and Peru. 

We must, therefore, adapt ourselves to 



194 THE CHAFING DISH 

circumstances in so far as the circumstances 
adapt themselves to us. It is no longer 
fashionable to get drunk, and in a generation 
or two it will be the worst kind of form to 
eat more than three courses at dinner. 

." Tell me what you eat and I will tell you 
what you are," said Brillat-Savarin, Judge of 
the French Court of Cassation in 1826, and 
not a professed cook, as so many folk seem 
to imagine. He goes on to say: "The 
gourmets by predestination can be easily told. 
They have broad faces, bright eyes, small 
foreheads, short noses, full lips, and rounded 
chins. The females are plump and pretty 
rather than handsome, with a tendency to 
embonpoint. ^^ 

This is not complimentary, and does not 
seem to be borne out by experience. Women 
gourmets are fewer than men, but they make 
up in knowledge what they lack in number. 
Both Goethe and Byron have left it on record 
that they objected to seeing women eat, but 
nowadays, with better table manners, it is not 
a disagreeable sight, except perhaps at a Swiss 
talk d'hSte. 

An English dinner-party, in the present 



AMENITIES OF THE TABLE 195 

year of grace, is not at all ugly. It may be 
— and sometimes is — almost a thing of 
beauty. The modern dinner-table approaches 
as nearly to the old Greek type as is com- 
patible with the widely divergent character 
of the two civilisations. It certainly follows 
the classic pattern in two valuable particulars 
— beauty and repose. True, we do not 
wreathe our heads in roses, nor carry doves 
nestling in the folds of our robes, nor pour 
libations of wine over one another (such a 
messy habit !), but we have done away, for 
good and all, let us hope, with the dreadful 
mid- Victorian table decorations. Instead of 
hideous dish- covers, branching candelabra, 
hideous epergnes, and appalling " set pieces," 
we have Hawthorn bowls of roses, delicate 
Venetian glass, beaten copper finger-bowls, 
perfectly plain silver, and the simplest of 
white china. Everything perfect of its kind, 
and its kind the non-ostentatious. 

We have also become franker in the 
honest avowal of our appetites. Even in our 
grandmothers' time it was considered some- 
what immodest to take a second helping 
without being pressed. Pressure was expected 



196 THE CHAFING DISH 

as a politeness from the host. An old 
manual of table etiquette says : " Offer every; 
dish at least thrice to each guest. Timid 
appetites must be tempted, for they exist 
still, especially among literary folk ! " 

Altogether we are much politer, outwardly 
at any rate, than we used to be. Even a 
Royal Duke has manners. So he had for- 
merly — but they were mostly bad. It is told 
of one of the Royal Family, of a couple of 
generations ago, that he was dining at Bel- 
voir, and his host, noticing His Royal High- 
ness studying the menu at dinner, asked him 
if he would like anything that did not appear 
on the bill of fare. " Yes ; roast pig and 
apple dumpling," was the gracious reply. 

The daring simplicity of the royal appe- 
tite is splendid, but the pity is that it was 
not more pleasantly put. 

Another reform in our dining arrange- 
ments is the greater love which folks now 
bear to fresh air. Formerly dining-rooms 
were heated up as though the guests were 
early cucumbers, and wanted forcing. This, 
I am sure, contributed greatly to the dulness 
of the average dinner-party. As the result 



AMENITIES OF THE TABLE 197 

of careful observation, I have found, by ex- 
perimenting with a thermometer, that at a 
temperature of 62° Fahrenheit conversation 
flows easily and every one's wits are^ at their 
best and sharpest, - At 75° or higher the 
most elastic spirits become subdued. If any 
one says to me : "So-and-so was not himself 
last night at dinner," I am always tempted to 
ask : " What was the temperature ?" 

Why will people, when they dine -out in 
public pJaces, insist on having music? It 
seems to me a. confusion of the arts, and "with 
little ear for music I cannot bring myself to 
take my soup in polka time, or masticate my 
whitebait to the Intermezzo from " Cavalleria 
Rusticana." It is quite a modern fad, for in 
1874 G. A. Sala discusses music at dinner 
in a magazine, and only- refers to it in royal 
palaces* With all deference to those who 
know better, it seems to me to. be rather 
rude to good music, and to a good" dinner. 

All the foregoing is in direct relation to 
the art. of the Chafing Dish, because the 
refinement of modern cookery is nowhere 
more evident than in dealing with ChafKnda. 
I have. been. to. a. dinner-party .where two 



198 THE CHAFING DISH 

Chafing Dishes were brought on to the table 
after the sweets, one being placed before the 
host and the other before the hostess. Deft 
servants handed the necessary ingredients, 
and in five minutes, the guests (we were 
eight, I think) were enjoying a little egg 
savoury, piping hot, and cooked before their 
eyes. This sort of thing may become quite 
common. Who knows ? 

The table for an ordinary Chafing-Dish 
meal, whether luncheon, dinner or supper, 
such as might be cooked after a diligent 
study of the foregoing chapters, should be 
arranged as simply as possible. One end 
bears the Chafing Dish on its own little tray 
and cloth. The remaining three-quarters of 
the table may be laid for a smallish party, 
and, by all the canons of good taste, avoid 
decorating it with tulle or nun's veiling, or 
chifFon, or whatever the silly, flimsy, puffy 
stuff is called. You might as well put 
ostrich feathers and bombazine in the middle 
of the table. Good simple glass and china, 
the older the better, as a rule, because the 
forms are more beautiful ; and I see no need 
for uniformity in either service, so long as 



AMENITIES OF THE TABLE 199 

each individual piece is beautiful in itself. 
Pewter plates retain the heat splendidly, and 
some of the old ones are excellent in design. 
Wooden platters are affected by some people 
for meats, and I confess that the red juice 
of the meat on the well-scrubbed surface is 
very pleasing. Keep the centre ornament 
very low, so that one can see and talk across 
it. A big dish of almost any old blue and 
white ware, with a very few flowers, but each 
bloom perfect in itself, is my own ideal. 
Nothing is more trying than to talk to your 
opposite neighbour across a small table, 
through a mass of tightly packed towering 
flowers, or a jungle of dense fern. It is 
not beautiful, but just annoying. 

Chafing-Dish cookery, I am delighted to 
be able to add, seems to engender the love of 
beautiful things. It is so easy to pick up 
and use, in parlour cookery, all sorts of 
quaint and delightful pieces of china of 
curious and old-fashioned design. They 
may not all be genuine ; in fact, most of 
them are pretty certain not to be. But if 
the shape is good, the colouring pleasing, 
and the form well adapted for holding sauce, 



200 THE CHAFING DISH 

sweetmeats, condiments, or anything else, 
then, so far as ChafRnda is concerned, their 
genuineness and intrinsic value is a secondary 
matter. 

One is occasionally tempted by the oiFer 
of a real old silver Chafing Dish with or 
without an ivory handle. Cooking in such 
an implement would be an ultra refinement 
of the art. But the temptation must be 
resisted, such things are not for daily use, 
although at one time and in some houses 
a silver dish no doubt was always put before 
the master, wherein to make his Welsh 
Rabbit. 

There is a sort of huge silver Chafing 
Dish in the Cluny Museum, which rather 
suggests a cauldron, so vast are its dimen- 
sions. It is evidently fairly old and has 
seen much use, though it is not quite evident 
what could have been cooked in it, unless 
it were the original marmite of Monsieur 
Deharme, which never left oiF cooking. 

Grimod de la Reyniere places on record, 
as an example to all good cooks, this 
extraordinary marmite — or stockpot — of 
Monsieur Deharme, a restaurateur in the Rue 



AMENITIES OF THE TABLE 201 

des Grands-Augustins. He calls it " the 
everlasting marmite" as, at the date of 
writing (1803), it had not been ofF the fire 
for eighty-five years ! During that time it 
had cooked at least three hundred thousand 
capons, for Monsieur Deharme's specialty 
was the purveying of well-cooked hot capons 
at any hour of the day and night. His 
establishment was always open, and the 
procession of succulent birds to the marmite 
was unending ; in fact, the Deharme fowl 
was regenerated perpetually in one long 
procession of— apparently^the same bird, 
born anew for each successive customer. 
The author adds that this marmite was 
celebrated throughout Europe — and no 
wonder. 

In preparing some of the recipes in 
preceding chapters. Chafers may find some 
difficulty, if it be summer-time, in keeping 
one portion of the dish hot whilst the other 
portion is cooking. When I have no fire in 
the room, I use a copper tray with two spirit 
lamps underneath. This is a splendid in- 
vention and no Chafer should be without 
one. Then there is another useful thing to 



202 THE CHAFING DISH 

reniember. The lower hot-water dish, if 
filled with water and put over the lamp, 
only half turned up, will keep food warm in 
the Chafing Dish for ever so long. This is 
often useful to know, as it is so pleasant to find 
something unexpectedly prepared and ready 
when one had feared that all the cooking 
had to be done by oneself. After a late 
night's work such a surprise is very com- 
forting. 

In preparing a Chafing-Dish meal it is 
important to remember the sequence of 
cooking, so that the waits between the 
courses shall not be too long. I use two 
Chafing Dishes, so that there need be no 
delay ; one can be cleaned whilst the other 
is in use. If you are making soup, have the 
fish ready so that it only wants hotting up. 
If your second course takes a little time, fill 
up the interval with something cold, or a 
salad. Work out your plan carefully be- 
forehand so that there can be no possibility 
of accident, and if the occasion be special, 
and you wish to shine to your very best 
advantage, I earnestly recommend you to 
have a full-dress rehearsal the day before, 



AMENITIES OF THE TABLE 203 

and time yourself accurately for each dish ; 
then there can be little chance of failure. 

The setting forth of menus seems to me 
to be an entirely futile method of filling up 
a cook-book. No one ever follows them, 
because things never happen just so as to 
make all the materials simultaneously avail- 
able. It is much better to dip here and 
there in a book — to choose a soup, a meat, 
and a salad ; or a fish, a bird, and a savoury ; 
or a soup, a fish, and a sweet (an it be 
Friday) — to suit your convenience, pocket, 
and taste of the moment. 

Further, as I have already explained, I do 
not pretend to have done more than touch 
on the fringe of the possibilities of the 
Chafing Dish. I have only described what I 
have done, and hinted at what others may 
do. But what I particularly want to draw 
attention to is the scope for original research 
in the cult of Chaffinda. A long winter's 
evening is much more profitably spent ex- 
perimenting with the Chafing Dish than — 
well, playing Patience, for instance. 

I do not desire to make every unmarried 
man and woman a cook. Far from it. 



204 THE CHAFING. DISH 

But it would do us no harm to think a little 
more of the quality of the food we eat, and 
less of the quantity. Few of us, however, 
are so stomach-ridden as Mynheer Welters, 
Burgomaster of Dilburg, in a delightful 
novel published thirty years ago, called " The 
Burgomaster's Family," by Christine MuUer, 
and translated from the Dutch by Sir John 
Shaw-Lefevre. Burgomaster Welters wor- 
shipped his stomach. What a good dinner 
was to- him no words can express. It_:was 
the realisation of .all his dreams and wishes. 
The content of soul and the feeling . of 
philanthropy which his eyes expressed after 
such a dinner must have been seen to be 
described. He was accused of marrying 
Widow de GraafF because she knew the 
recipe of a certain pie which she would _ not 
divulge at a less price than marriage. If 
any one spoke of glorious summer, he only 
thought of early vegetables; France re- 
minded him of Veuve Cliquot, and Germany 
of Bavarian beer. 

An American Chafing-Dish book in my 
possession contains the following quaint 
apothegm : " The Chafing Dish not only 



AMENITIES OF THE TABLE 205 

makes possible the sincerest expression of 
the most perfect hospitality, but it seems the 
true symbol of good fellowship." The 
sentiment herein expressed is unimpeachable, 
and I should like to be able to use such 
pretty talk myself. It is exactly what I 
wanted to explain, but being clumsy in the 
expression of intimate feeling, I cannot 
get beyond something to this effect : " The 
Chafing Dish is a handy thing to have about 
the house, and turns up usefully at the most 
unexpected moments. It is a ripping good 
idea ! " 




INDEX 



Almonds, Salted . 
Alderman's Walk . 
Anchovy and Cucumber Salad 
Anchovy Eggs 

Antiquity of the Chafing Dish 
Apple Fritters 
Apples, Stewed 
Whiskey , 
Artichokes, Braized . 
Artichoke Chips, Fried . 

Bacon and Cauliflower Salad 
Banana Cream 
Beans, Broad . 
Italian 

French . 

Haricot . 
Beef, Chipped 

Devilled . 

Steak 

Strips 
Bigarade Sauce 
Bills of Fare . 
Bird's-Nest Soup 
Biscuits, Devilled 

Savoury . 
Black Butter Sauce 
Bloaters, Grandfather's 
Bombay Toast 



153 

34 
136 

147 

3 

179 

181 

187 

"S 

136 

185 

120 
IZO 
119 
122 

86 

84 
83 

21 

173 

33 

SI 

1 54 

152 

169 

n 

'53 



2o8 



THE CHAFING DISH 



Braized Artichokes 

Olives 
Bread Salad . 

Sauce 
Brigands' Fowls 
Broad Beans . 

Italian 
Brown Sauce . 
Browned Tongue 
Brussels Sprouts 
Bubble and Squeak 
Butter, Black, Sauce 

Sauce 
Buttered Lobster 

Carrot Soup . 

Cauliflower and Bacon Salad 

Celeraic Salad . 

Celery Salad . 

Chafed Salmon 

Chafing Dish, Antiquity of 

Outfit . 
Chapon, The . 
Cheese, Matador 
Chestnuts 

Coffee 

Devilled , 
Chicken, Brigands' 

Creamed . 

Howtowdie 

Minced . 

Roman . 
Chicory Salad . 
Chipped Beef . 
Cleanliness 
Cockroach Soup 
Gocotte, Eggs en 
Cod Pudding . 



PAGE 

US 
152 
136 
168 

99 
120 
120 
165 

3> 
121 

90 
169 
164 

63 

49 
136 

131 

130, 

59 
3 

19 
128 

151 
123 

182 
'53 

99 

102 
100 

lOI 

130 
86 
29 
SI 

HS 
60 



INDEX 



209 



PACE 

Coffee Barometer . . . . , .188 


Chestnuts 








. 182 


Cold Meats . 








30 


Court Bouillon , 








69 


Cream Banana 








. 185 


Creamed Chicken . 








loz 


Smelts 








72 


Cre^y Soup 








49 


Cross Star Soups 








40 


Cucumber and Anchovy Salad 








136 


Cutlets, Mutton 








27 


Dandelion Leaves . 








130 


Decoration of Dinner Table 








198 


Devilled Beef. 








84 


Biscuits . 








154 


Chestnuts 








>S3 


Devil, The . 








154 


Digestive Prawns . 








65 


Dining-room Temperature 








196 


Dinner, Music at . 








197 


Table Decoration . 








198 


ECGS .... 








139 


Anchovy . 








147 


en Cocotte 








145 


Kempton 








146 


Lady Effingham's . 








HS 


Newmarket 








146 


Poached .... 








141 


Scrambled 








141 


Eels, Matelote 








76 


Nettled .... 








76 


Souchet .... 








75 


Endive Salad .... 








130 


Etena Jarvat .... 








94 



Fatiguing, A, Sal/>d 



128 



2IO 



THE CHAFING DISH 



FACE 

Figs, Stuffed i86 


Fisherman's Sauce . 




173 


Flattered Lobster .... 




64 


Fowl, Brigands' 






99 


Roman . 






lOI 


French Beans . 






119 


Names 






34 


Menus . 






34 


Fried Artichoke Chips 






115 


Herrings , 






S7 


Parsley . 






122 


Pineapple 






182 


Potatoes . 






"3 


Tomatoes 






114 


Fritters, Apple 






179 


Frizzled Ham . . 






88 


Gallimaufrey 






89 


Game, Minced 






24 


Germiny Soup 






52 


Grot, Skansk . 






186 


Grandfather's Bloaters 






77 


Green Peas . 






123 


Goulasch 






93 


Gubbins' Sauce 






170 


Ham, Frizzled 






88 


in Hades 






88 


Jellied . 






22 


Toast . 






151 


Haricot Beans 






122 


Herrings, Fried 






57 


Hodge's Sausages . 






92 


Howtowdie . 






100 


Hurried Sardines . 






71 


Italian Broad Beans 






120 


Sauce 






. 170 



INDEX 



jARDiNii^RE Salad . 
Jellied Ham . 

Kabobs . . , 
Kedgeree 

Martin Harvey's 
Kempton Eggs 

Lady Effingham's Eggs 
Leeks, Welsh , 
Lettuce Salad . 
Lobster, Buttered 

Flattered 

Polly . 
■Locust Soup . 

Macaroni 
Madeleine Sauce 
Mattre d'H6tel Sauce 
Martin Harvey's Kedgeree 
Mary's Potatoes 
Mashed Potato Salad 
Matador Cheese 
Matelote of Eels 
Mayonnaise 
Mealies . 
Meat, Cold . 
Menus . 
Milk, Rice . 
Minced Chicken 

Game 
Mushrooms 

Stewed . 
Music at Dinner 
Mustard Sauce 
Mutton Cutlets 

Saddle of 

Steaks . 



211 

PAGE 
136 

22 

99 

73 

74 

146 

145 
119 
130 
63 
64 
63 
SI 

155 
169 

166 

112 
131 

76 

7 
125 

30 

33 

i8s 

24 

24 

116 

117 

197 

1 68 

27 

34 

94 



212 



THE CHAFING DISH 



Mutton, Turkish 


94 


Venison ...... 


95 


Nettled Eels ..... 


• !(> 


Newmarket Eggs ..... 


146 


Oddments ...... 


177 


Olives, Braized ..... 


152 


Omelettes 


142 


Onions ....... 


9 


Sauce ...... 


170 


Outfit of Chafing Dish .... 


19 


Oysters .,.,.,, 


. 68 


Palestine Soup ..... 


47 


Parsley, Fried 


122 


Peas 


123 


Pea Soup ...... 


42 


Perigueux Sauce ..... 


174 


Pheasant, Yesterday's .... 


104 


Pineapple, Fried ...... 


182 


Piquant Sauce 


166 


Plump and Wallop ..... 


96 


Poached Eggs ...... 


141 


Polly, Lobster 


63 


Poor Man's Sauce ... . . 


169 


Soup ...... 


46 


Potatoes and Point .... 


97 


Fried 


113 


Mary's ...... 


112 


Mashed Salad ...... 


131 


Salad ....... 


130 


Sala's 


112 


Uglies ....... 


112 


Prawns, Digestive 


65 


On the Grass ...... 


(>! 


Wiggle . , . , . . 


66 


Preserved Soups ...... 


40 



INDEX 



Pudding . 
Cod 
Pur6e of Spinach 

Rabbit, Welsh 
Ravigote Sauce 
Ravioli . 
Reform Sauce . 
Rehearsals, Necessary 
Remoulade Sauce 
Rhubarb, Stewed 
Rice Milk 
Robert Sauce . 
Romaine Salad 
Roman Fowl . 
Rules for Salad 
Rump Steak , 

Saddle of Mutton 
Salads 

Anchovy and Cucumber 

Bacon and Cauliflower 

Bread 

Cauliflower 
and Bacon 

Celeriac . 

Celery 

Chestnuts and Sprouts 

Chicory . 

Cucumber and Anchovy 

Dandelion 

Endive . . , 

Green Peas and Walnuts 

Jardiniere 

Lettuce , 

Mixture . 

Potato . 
Mashed 



213 

J'AGE 

178 

60 

116 

149 
166 

«S7 
167 

202 
166 
181 

i8s 

28 

130 

lOI 

128 
83 

34 
128 
136 
136 
136 
130 
136 

131 
130 

135 
130 

136 
130 
130 

13s 
136 
130 
127 
130 
131 



214 



THE CHAFING DISH 



PACE 

Salads, Roraaine 130 


Rules .... 








128 


Sprouts and Chestnuts 








135 


Tomato .... 








130 


Walnuts and Green Peas 








I3S 


Sala's Potatoes 








112 


Salmon, Chafed 








59 


Salted Almonds 








'53 


Sardines in a Hurry 








71 


Waldorf . 








71 


Sauces .... 








'59 


Bigarade . 








173 


Black Butter . 








169 


Bread . 








168 


Brown . 








i6s 


Butter . 








16+ 


Fisherman's 








173 


Gubbins'. 








170 


Italian 








170 


Madeleine 








169 


Mattre d'H6tel 








166 


Mustard . 








168 


Onion 








170 


Perigueux 








174 


Piquant . 








166 


Poor Man's 








169 


Ravigote . 








166 


Reform . 








167 


Robert . 








28 


Remoulade 








166 


Soubise . 








167 


White . 








1 6s 


Sausages, Hodge's . 








92 


Savoury Biscuits 








152 


Scrambled Eggs 








141 


Scouse ..... 








98 


Skansk Grot . 








186 


Smelts, Creamed 








7* 



INDEX 



215 



Smothered Turbot . 








70 


Soubise Sauce . 








167 


Souchet of Eels 








75 


Sprats . . . . 








61 


Soups . . . . . 








38 


Bird's-nest 








SI 


Carrot . 








49 


Cockroach 








5' 


Cre9y . 








49 


Cross Star 








40 


Germiny 








52 


Locust . 








51 


Palestine 








47 


Pea . . . 








42 


Poor Man's 








46 


Preserved 








40 


Turtle . 








43 


Spinach Puree 








116 


Sprats, Souchet 








61 


Sprouts and Chestnut Salad 








13s 


Stargazer Pie . 








60 


Steak, Beef . 








83 


Mutton . 








94 


Rump . 








. 83 


Stewed Apples 








. 181 


Mushrooms 








. ii6 


Rhubarb 








. 181 


Strips of Beef , 








21 


Stuffed Figs . 








. . 186 


Sweets .... 








. 17s 


Tagliatelli . 






. 156 


Temperature of Dining-room 






196 


Thistles 






118 


Toast .... 






z6 


Bombay . 






. 153 


Ham 






. 151 


Tomatoes 








. 114 



2l6 



THE CHAFING DISH 



Tomatoes, Fried .... 


. 114 


Tongue, Browned . 


31 


Trout in Small Broth 


. 69 


Turbot, Smothered 


70 


Turkish Mutton .... 


94 


Turtle Soup ..... 


43 


Uglies, Potatoes .... 


112 


Vegetables ..... 


108 


Vegetarianism .... 


108 


Venison Mutton .... 


95 


Waldorf Sardines .... 


71 


Walk, Alderman's .... 


34 


Walnut and Green Pea Salad . 


• 135 


Welsh Leeks 


. 119 


Rabbit 


• 149 


Whiskey Apples 


. . 187 


White Sauce . . . . 


. i6s 


Wiggle Prawns .... 


66 


Yesterday's Pheasant . 


104 


Zrazy ...... 


. . 87 



Printed by Ballantvne, Hanson &* Co. 
London <5j^ Edinburgh 



A USEFUL PRESENT at all Times 

is a STERNAU CHAFING DISH 




No. 1126 



Chafing Dishes can be 
had from 14/6 each complete 





FLAGON. No. 115. For holding the 
Spirit. Pours when you presj the knob 

TOASTER 

Nickel Plated. No. 1710 

Sole Importers of 

the STERNAU Egg 

CHAFING DISH Poacher ^„^„,, „,,„ sp^^, ,,„ ^o.^ 

JOHN 6. ROLLINS & SONS, m HOLBORN, LONDON, E.G. 




For CHAFING DISH COOKERY, 



MAGGTS 
SOUPS & ESSENCE 

STAND ALONE. 

MAGGI'S ESSENCE. 

" The Ideal Condiment." 

A remarkable highly-concentrated Extract, a few drops only of which 
have a magical effect In giving strength, body, and flavour to any soup, 
sauce, gravy, stew, hash, &c. 

TO BE USED SPARINGLY— NOT TO BE COOKED, BUT TO BE 

ADDED AT TIME OF SERVICE. 

Pronounced on the highest scientific authority to be an excellent 

Appetiser and a Valuable aid to Digestion. 

Sold in Bottles at 7d,, i/-, i/6, and 9/'. 

MAGGI'S CONSOMME. 

The Perfection of Clear Soups, 

In Gelatine capsules, each capsule making J-pint perfect clear soup — no 
addition but boiling water being necessary. 

Boxes o£ 10 Capsules^ i/8< 

MAGGI'S CROSS^STAR SOUPS. 

Twenty Varieties of the Finest French Soups. 

In tablets, each tablet making one pint of soup — no addition 
but water being necessary. 

Boxes of 12 Tablets^ 2/6 and 3/*. 
ORDER OF YOUR GROCER. 

If there be any difficulty in obtaining these preparations, send 5/- for 
a trial order, which will be sent free by parcel post to any address in the 
kingdom, with name of nearest retailer. The parcel can be made up 
thus : — 



1 Bottle MAggi's Essence. 

X Box Maggi's Consomm^. 

2 Tablets Maggi's Mock-Turtle 

Soup. 



■> Tablets Maggi's Mulligatawny 

(Curry Soup). 
1 Tablet Bisque. 
I Tablet Londonderry. 



6 Tablets other Maggi Soups, six varieties, assorted. 



Address Sole Agents: 

COSENZA AND CO., 

95 Wigmofe Street, London, W* 

By Appointment to H.R.H. Princess Christian* 



American 
Fancy Groceries, 

Preserved Fruits. 

Sweet Corn, Okra, Succotash. 

Tomatoes. 

Maple Syrup. 

Buckwheat Flour. 

Soups. 

Virginia Peach-fed Hams. 

American Cocktails. 

American Whiskies. 



The most Complete List. 

The most Satisfactory Prices of 

ALL AMERICAN LUXURIES 

To be found in England. 

IMPORTED DIRECT. 

Rt. JACKSON & CO. 

172 PICCADILLY, W- 

By Appointment to His Majesty King Edward VII. 



American Cook Books 

ON SALE BY 

GAY AND BIRD 



THE DELMONICO COOK BOOK. How to Buy 

Food, how to Cook it, and how to Serve it. By 
Alessandro Filippini (for 25 years Chef at Delmonico's, 
New York). Large 8vo, new and revised edition, strongly 
bound in white American cloth, 12s. net. 

This work is designed not only for Clubs, Hotels and 
Restaurants, but more especially for Private Families. In it 
will be found Menus for Breakfast, Luncheon and Dinner for 
every day in the year, beside Menus for Celebrated Dinners 
which have been given at Delmonico's from time to time. 

HANDY VOLUME CULINARY SERIES. By 

Filippini. Oblong shape (6i in. by 5 in.), handsomely 
bound, 2s. 6d. each. 

No. I. ONE HUNDRED WAYS OF COOKING 

EGGS. 
No. 2. ONE HUNDRED WAYS OF COOKING 

FISH. 
No. 3. QNE HUNDRED DESSERTS. 

Mrs. RORER'S COOK BOOK. (Principal of the 
Philadelphia School of Cookery.) Crown 8vo, pp. 500, 
washable oil-cloth binding, gs. 

101 SANDWICHES. By May E. Southworth. 
Size 8 in. by S in., paper wrapper, 2s. 6d. net. 

THE WALDORF COOK BOOK. By Oscar 

TsCHlRKY. Size 10 by 7J, pp. 930, strongly bound in 
white American cloth, 12s. net. 

This work is by the celebrated Chef of the Waldorf Hotel, 
New York. 

London : GAY & BIRD, 22 Bedford Street. 



A Few Novels 

CONFIDENTLY RECOMMENDED 

TO GIVE ENTERTAINMENT 

AND RELAXATION 




TUBLISHSD Br 

GAY & HANCOCK, ud. 

Successors to GAY & BIRD 

12 & 13, HENRIETTA STREET, COVENT GARDEN 
LONDON 
September, 1908 



AS QUEENS ARE WED 



By ANNE WARNER 

(Author of "Seeing England zvith Uncle John," "Seeing France 
with Uncle John," " Rejuvenation of ,4unt Mary" etc.) 

Crown 8vo., Cloth Gilt, with attractive Side Design, 

6/. 



Anne Warner is now well known on this side, and her humorous 
writing's have received unstinted praise from the Press in this 
country and the Colonies. This story is not in her usual style, 
but is a delightful love story, the scene being' Italy and Austria ; 
there is naturally a g^ood deal of humour in it, but it is of a 
subdued character. 



THE NEW MISSIONER 



By MRS. WILSON WOODROW 

Crown 8vo., with Eight Illustrations, Cloth Gilt, with 
Side Design, ds. 



This is a distinctly clever book. It depicts the life of a woman 
missionary in a mining village in the Rockies, and how, in spite of 
the hostility of the female population, she won the love and esteem 
of the inhabitants. All the characters are drawn with considerable 
skill and humour, and the remarkable scenery is sympathetically 
depicted. 

We are confident of a great success for this story, the style 
being similar to that of Kate Douglas Wig:gin. 



THE SWORD OF DUNDEE 

A Tale of " Bonnie Prince Charlie " 
By THEODORA PECK 

Crown 8vo., with Seven Illustrations, Cloth Gilt, 
WITH attractive Side Design, 6s. 



A thrilling story written around the interesting personality of 
" Bonnie Prince Charlie," and introducing the great devotion of 
Flora McDonald and Agnes Leslie. The book deals with all the 
stirring events in Scotland from 1741 to 1749, and should especially 
appeal to all lovers of Jacobite romance. 



THE TAILOR OF VITRE 

By may WYNNE 
(Author of "Let Erin Remember," "A Maid of Brittany " 

Crown 8vo., Cloth Gilt, with artistic 
Side Design, (>s. 



The author of this story has met with considerable success 
already, and we are confident "The Tailor of Vitr^ " will add 
to her laurels. 

The scene of this romance is laid in Brittany in the XVth 
century, when Pierre Laudais, a, tailor of Vitr^, rose to become 
Duke, Francis the Second's favourite, and practically governed 
the country to his own advantage. His hand was always against 
the old nobility, and hence many stirring conflicts. There is 
a charming love story running through this story, in which the 
heroine, betrothed to a young noble, loses her heart to a hand- 
some gypsy, who performs many deeds of heroism. After many 
thrilling adventures, he- is proved to be the son and heir of one 
of the nobles, and was supposed to have been murdered with his 
mother twenty-five years previously. 



fust Published. 

SEEING ENGLAND WITH 
UNCLE JOHN 

By ANNE WARNER 

Author of " Seeing Trance with Uncle John" " Rejuvenation Oj 
Aunt Mary," etc. 

Crown 8vo., Cloth Gilt, Illustrated, 

6s. POST FREE. 



EARLY PRESS OPINIONS 

World, — "Admirers of Miss Anne Warner's sprightly humour, 
and of her remarkable deftness in lightly weaving threads of 
valuable topographical and historical knowledge into a touring 
narrative in which the broadly comic element predominates, 
will be glad to renew acquaintance with her breezily dogmatic 
American sightseer who afforded them so much amusement in 
'Seeing France with Uncle John.' .... Is every whit 
as amusing, as vivacious, and, withal, as informing as its 
predecessor. .... But though the author well knows how 
to make us laugh, she is also thoroughly equipped with informa- 
tion of all kinds relating to the various places to which Uncle John 
and the others pay their flying visits ; and it is not often that so 
much real erudition is so brightly imparted as in this merry little 
volume, which will still further advance Miss Warner's reputation. 
Mr. Frederick R. Gruger's illustrations are excellent," 

Scotsman. — " It should be read with a hearty enjoyment by 
anyone fond of sight-seeing." 

Globe. — "It is decidedly an amusing book.'' 

Glasgow Herald. — " The whole is cleverly conceived and not 
the least clever thing is the manner in which Miss Warner has 
contrived to convey a great amount of miscellaneous information 
about the places visited," 



Just Published. 

THE SLIM PRINCESS 

By GEORGE ADE 

Crown 8vo., Cloth Gilt, i6 Coloured Illustrations, 
3/. dd. net. 



EARLY PRESS OPINIONS 

Observer. — " It is all very cheerful reading-." 

Evening Standard. — " It is as lovable as it is quaint : and 
the pictures are a joy." 

Dublin Express. — " It is one of the most amusingf books 
published since Mark Twain g-ave his ' Innocents Abroad ' to 
the world. The numerous coloured illustrations, too, are a 
deligfht to the eye. It is a book to be read — and at once." 

Birmingham Daily Post. — "The heroine of this book is an 
Oriental damsel of high station, who is so unfashionable as to 
remain persistently thin in a land where obesity is a charm and 
feminine attractions are measured in avoirdupois. How the 
father is distressed at this state of things, and how an agile 
American comes to the rescue of the thin lady, are told with 

a veritable abandon of gay humour A thoroughly 

amusing book." 

Pall Mall Gazette. — "Clever and in every way delightful 
illustrations, which of themselves are worth the price of the 
little volume." 

Morning Post. — " Is a gay little extravaganza which provides 
a sprightly and highly coloured background for Mr. Ade's genre 
of humour It is all very airy and bright." 



AN AMBITIOUS MAN 



By ELLA WHEELER WILCOX 

Crown 8vo., Cloth, with Illustrated Side Design, 
p. 6d. 



Ella Wheeler Wilcox is undoubtedly the most popular writer of 
poetry at the present time. 

Admirers of her Poems will not be surprised to hear that she 
has contributed many short stories and essays to the American 
magazines which have met with great success. This is her 
longest story, and we are, confident it will not disappoint her 
thousands of readers. 



PRINCESS OF THE SANDHILLS 

By ADA PITFIELD 

Crown 8vo, Cloth Gilt, 3/. 6d. 



Globe. — " Introduces a new writer of promise. Her story is 
fresh and engaging, and makes a simple but strong appeal for 
sympathy." 

Times. — " If (as we fancy) this is by a new writer, she is to be 

welcomed as there is a grateful absence of anything 

false or strained either in the emotion or the style." 

Birmingham Post. — " Related with much charm and delicacy." 

Dundee Advertiser. — " The story is a simple one, but beauti- 
fully told." 

Manchester Courier. — "A delightful, clever and rather old- 
fashioned novel. The author's weaving of the tale is most 
ingenious." 

Ladies' Field. — " The story is skilfully handled, and is written 
in a direct, unaffected style. " 



THE PORT OF MISSING MEN 

By MEREDITH NICHOLSON 

Juthor of "The House of a Thousand Candles" 
Second Edition, Crown 8vo, Cloth, 6s. 



Daily Telegraph.—"' ' The Port of Missing- Men ' will, we have 
little doubt, also enjoy a wide popularity, for the author has 
learned the art of g-iving some degree of literary finish to melo- 
dramatic romance. . . . Mr. Nicholson has devised an 
admirable romance, has worked it out well and maintains the 
reader's lively interests from start to finish, so that once more he 
should score a signal success." 

Ladies' Field. - " The story is intensely exciting ; the reader's 
interest is so strongly aroused that he will find it dilBcult to put 
the book down till the la.st page is reached." 

Times. — " Ingenious and worth reading.'' 

Glasgow News. — " Mr. Nicholson is evidently to take rank 
among our more popular novelists." 

Glasgow Herald. — "The heroine is delightful, and there are 
adventures and excitement of various kinds in abundance. It is 
a brightly written book and deserves to be widely read." 

Clarion. — " Shirley Claiborne is just sweet. . . . The 
beginning and the end of the story go bravely and make the cor- 
puscles march." 

Queen. — " There are one or two points about Mr. Nicholson's 
work which make him stand out from most other modern novelists 
— he never fails to get a good thrill into his books, and he never 
fails to bring the story to an unexpected and original denouement. 
. . . This is a book which no one who enjoys a really good novel 
can fail to appreciate." 

Liverpool Courier. — " The whole book is good. It abounds in 
incident and excitement, and should be one of the successes of 
the season." 

Morning Post. — "We can promise readers that they will not 
easily put down this breezy and breathless narrative of vigorous 
and unusual adventures." 



THE HOUSE OF A 

THOUSAND CANDLES 

BY 

MEREDITH NICHOLSON 

Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, Cloth, 6t. 



Athenaum. — " We strongly commend the story. The author 
invests his villains with humour, and writes with the gusto of 
the artist." 

Western Morning News. — " The denouement comes quite ai 
a surprise, the secret being well kept up to the very end. . . . 
much above the average in every way." 

Ladies' Field. — " From beginning to end it is one long thrill 
of excitement, and carries the reader breathlessly along from the 
first page to the last. So well constructed and exciting a melo- 
dramatic novel has not been issued for a long time past, and it 
is almost a pity that the anxiety to get to the end causes the 
reader to miss some of the finer workmanship." 

Literary World. — " The denouement is unique, and will, we 
venture to suppose, never be guessed by the most experienced 
reader. The book is brightly written, and the interest never 
fails." 

Truth. — " The reader's attention is not allowed to relax until 
' Finis ' is written." 

Daily Mail. — "The tale is brisk enough to attract a large 
number of readers. . . . but we will not go further into the 
story, but will recommend it heartily to all." 

Liverpool Post. — " It is a rare tale, with a most happy 
ending, and in reaching that ending we can safely promise every 
reader a most pleasant journey ... its charm of style, 
capital dialogue, and quiet humour are likely to bring it equal 
favour on this side of the ocean." 



JERRY JUNIOR 

By JEAN WEBSTER 

Crown 8vo, Illustrated, Cloth, 6i. 
A pretty love story full of humour. Scene. Italy. 



Tribune. — " In these days of detective stories and sensational 
mysteries, it is a pleasure to come across siich a fantastic and 
delightful book as ' Jerry Junior '. . . . We have thoroughly 
enjoyed a, dip into this lively and charming romance. . . . 
Every page is instinct with life and colour, and Miss Jean Webster 
has caught the spirit of Italian life and scenery, so delightfully 
inconsequent and full of humour and gaiety." 

Newcastle Chronicle. — " The story altogether is a bright piece 
of comedy, excellently adapted for holiday reading, with the 
proviso that its charming black and white illustrations make it a 
thing almost too good for seaside reading, except in the case of 
those who may be trusted to tend it carefully." 

Liverpool Courier. — " It is a right merry yarn related with an 
engaging archness and charm. The characterisation is very 
capable, Gustavo, the worried waiter, being particularly amusing. 
There are some unusually good illustrations." 

Madame. — " Constance, the heroine, is a delicious oasis of 
unreasonableness, and there is a great deal of quiet humour in 
these pages which cannot fail to please even the most fastidious 
reader. The illustrations by Orson Lowell are excellent." 

Queen. — " The story goes with a ripple, and is full of humour." 

Ladies' Field. — "This is a very bright and amusing little 
comedy. . . . The story is crisply written and is genuinely 
humorous. Mr. Orson Lowell's line illustrations are admirably 
suited to the text." 

Westminster Gazette. — " Miss Jean Webster has touched both 
her story and her characters with charm." 

Glasgow Herald. — "A story that merits its artistic complement 
by its ingenuity, its brightness of setting and its literary 
excellence." 

Chronicle. — " Miss Jean Webster has invented a fresh and 
fruitful situation — no mean feat." 



GEORGIE 

By DOROTHEA DEAKIN 

Juthor of " The Toet and the Pierrot^' " The Trhcess 
and the Kitchenmaid" etc. 

Crown 8vo, Illustrated, Cloth, 6/. 



Morning Post. — "It is a brightly written book, with just the 
right touch for its theme— light, deft, and at the same time 
humorously sympathetic. It should be extremely popular." 

Tribune. — " The story is told with humour and vivacity." 
World. — "There are some delightful episodes in the book 
and some charming writing." 

Newcastle Chrotiicle. — " A bright amusing book." 
Hearth and Home. — " A thoroughly amusing, thoroughly 
delightful volume." 

Birmingham Post. — " The reader who cannot laugh heartily 
at the escapades of Georgie, and sympathise with him on those 
occasions when the help of a friend is the one thing needful, must 
be hard to please." 

Globe. — " Miss Deakin has a pretty way of writing, keeps 
her story moving, is intelligently aware of the value of character, 
presents many specimens of fascinating girlhood, and invents an 
original ending . . . brimming with innocent fun, and pleasingly 
illustrated," 

Dundee Advertiser. — "The chronicle of Georgie's scrapes is 
great fun, and they lose nothing in the telling at the hand of 
Miss Deakin." 

Liverpool Courier. — " Miss Deakin's deftness of execution and 
happy invention are seen at their best in this amusing narrative 
of a susceptible youth's adventures. . . . Certainly this book whets 
our appetite for Miss Deakin's wonderfully clever writing, but 
whatever she gives us we retain our affection for Georgie." 

Church Times. — " The end is an amusing surprise, and the 
whole story is full of clean, wholesome fun." 

Glasgow Herald. — "The scrapes into which his propensity 
leads him are very amusing. A reader can spend a most enjoy- 
able hour over his follies and vagaries." 

Westminster Gazette.- — "As a light-hearted companion for a 
railway journey or a long afternoon, the eponymous hero of Miss 
Dorothea Deakin's latest book is excellent." 



THE REJUVENATION 

OF AUNT MARY 

By ANNE WARNER 

(Juthar of "Seeing France with Uncle John" "Susan Clegg") 
Crown 8vo, Cloth, 6s. 



7V«6«ff«.— '"Aunt Mary' is a great delig-ht . . . Some of the 
situations in tlie book are extremely funny, and the whole thing is 
conceived in a spirit of broad humour very diverting- on a dull 
day." 

Scotsman. — " With explosions of laughter the reader follows 
her experiences . . . The book is as exhilarating as champagne." 

Ladies' Field, — " This rattling farcical story goes with a laugh 
from start to finish . . . it is screamingly funny." 

Vanity Fair. — " The story is admirably told in a humorous 
manner with that quaintness of diction which is rather an 
attractive characteristic of American books. Few people will 
escape a hearty laugh over the old lady and her adventures while 
engaged in ' seeing life.' " 

Schoolmaster. — "A genuinely funny exciting story ... In 
places the situation becomes really comic and provokes downright 
genuine mirth ... A story that we can highly recommend." 

Westminster Gazette. — "When the American writer sets out 
to be fresh, he or she is just one of the freshest things imaginable. 
The amazing vitality of the people gets into their books. ' The 
Rejuvenation of Aunt Mary ' is an example." 

Bookman. — "If anyone wishes to be cheered by means of a 
new book let him take ' The Rejuvenation of Aunt Mary ' the 
latest novel of Anne Warner, the lively authoress." 

Evening Standard. — " Mostly roaring farce excellently funny, 
and seldom overdone. ... A delightfully fresh and amusing 
book." 

Spectator, — "The farce is distinctly good." 

Chronicle. — " Miss Anne Warner is distinctly a humorist." 

Queen. — " This is a book which must be read to be appreciated, 
but I can honestly say that it is the most amusing book I have 
read this year." 



SEEING FRANCE WITH 
UNCLE JOHN 

BY 

ANNE WARNER 

Profusely Illustrated by M. W. PRESTON. 
.Crown 8vo, Cloth Gilt, 5^. 



Yorkshire Post. — " Not since Jerome's story of ' Three Men 
in a Boat,' published some seventeen years ago, do we remembe* 
a more amusing- tale of travel." 

Telegraph. — "Described with rare humour. . . the iUu»- 
tr«tions are numerous and excellent." 

Athenmum. — " It can confidently be recommended to admirera 
of Jerome K. Jerome." 

Bataar. — " Told in an artless and amusing style, which 
makes the book interesting to read and difficult to put down till 
it is finished." 

Sheffield Daily Telegraph.—" This is a delightful up-to-date 
version of the ' Innocents Abroad.' " 

Ladies' Field. — " Uncle John is really delightful.'' 



SUSAN CLEGG AND HER 
NEIGHBOURS' AFFAIRS. 

BY 

ANNE WARNER 

Crown 8vo, Cloth, 3/. 6d. 



Glasgow Herald — "She is a genuine creation humorously 
and affectionately presented." 

Evening Standard. — " Her humour, both conscious and aa- 
conscious, is a thing to vindicate her sex from one partictUai 
reproach for ever. The Deacon's love troubles are hard ta 
forget. The whole book would make any one laugh with s 
risible nerve about him." 

Pall Mall Gatette. — " Such authors as Miss Anne Wamst 
occupy a unicjue niche. We cannot do without them." 

Ladies' Field.— " Susan Clegg is one of the most amusing 
characters we have met for a long- time." 



THE SHADOW OF CHRISTINE 

By EVELYN C. H. VIVIAN 

Crown 8vo, Cloth, 6s. 



The Times. — " The author can draw, in broad, sure strokes, 
characters that are human and interesting, and can so describe 
a scene that we realise it almost with the intensity of experi- 
ence. ... All is strongly felt and strongly told. Real people, 
real places, real passions." 

Athenccum. — " The story is not without dramatic power." 

Newcastle Chronicle. — "The author has a deft command of 
the art of the story-teller.'' 

Publishers' Circular, — " It is unusually clever, its reserve and 
its quick poignancy, free from sentiment, mark it out as a book 
quite out of the common." 

Glasgow News, — " The sketches of life are made with much 
subtlety and skill." 

Dublin Express, — " The writer is endowed with the power of 
setting before us characters that are no pallid ghosts or shadows 
of humanity. They have blood and bone, and backbone and 
sinew . . . we are interested in the people, and that is the right 
interest of a novel. . . . The characters are skilfully drawn with 
a very light, very firm hand, and the minor characters are in due 
proportion and harmony, and not a single ' super ' disfigures the 
stage. The descriptive parts are really fine, where Miss Vivian 
(if it is Miss Vivian) tells the story straightforward herself, and 
the narrative moves on clear cut and swift with terse power and 
a due economy of words. . . . ' The Shadow of Christine ' is a 
distinctly able novel." 

Globe. — " It is an able novel and should meet with success." 

Ladies' Field. — " This novel has afforded us real enjoyment. 
... A vigorous story, original in style and original in 
conception." 

Newcastle Chronicle. — " Miss Vivian has a deft command of 
the art of the story-teller." 

Pall Mall Gazette. — " The story is told with considerable 
force . . . is deserving of hearty commendation." 



13 



THE CALL OF THE EAST 

By charlotte LORRIMER 

Crown 8vo, Cloth, attractive Cover, 3/. 6d. 
Fifteen Short Stories relating to life in China and Japan. 



Manchester Guardian. — "Japanese life as seen by the authoress 
is instinct with taste and fine feeling, and her book reflects those 
qualities in its style." 

Morning Leader. — "They are delicately fashioned human 
sketches, of unusual literary excellence. . . . The stories are 
on a high level." 

Glasgow Herald. — " Miss Lorrimer tells an Eastern story 
well." 

Scotsman. — " The author has done her work well. The book 
may be opened at any page with pleasure and instruction." 

Evening News. — " The book is delightful to read. . . . One 
closes the book with a hope that Miss Lorrimer will give us 
more of her impressions." 

Schoolmaster. — " Delightful sketches. . . . The book is most 
entertaining." 

P.r.O.— "'The Call of the East' ... we can cordially 
commend for their appreciation of Oriental character. The 
Chinese and Japanese subjects are treated with genuine feeling." 

Daily Chronicle. — " Excellent in several distinct ways. . . . 
The vividness of impression produced of both countries is 
remarkable. . . . All the stories of Japan as here told with a 
quiet charm that brings the very heart of the country before 
the reader." 

Christian World. — " The delicate little vignettes that make up 
this volume catch with more than ordinary success the spirit of 
primitive Japan. . . . The book is full of humanity and a certain 
undercurrent of humour." 

Birmingham Post. — " We do not remember ever to have read 
— even in the pages of Hafcadio Hearn himself — anything that 
bore more authentically the impression of a loving and intimate 
appreciation of the Japanese spirit. They fascinate us, these 
tales, with the scent and quaintness of the East." 



14 



PAVING THE WAY 

A ROMANCE OF THE AUSTRALIAN BUSH 
By Simpson Newland. 

Ex-Trea»urer of South Australia. Popular Edition. 

Crown 8vo, Cloth Gilt, Illustrated Side, 3;. 6d. 

*«*This volume is based upon exciting- scenes and 'adventures 
which actually occurred in the pioneer days of Australia. 



Daily Telegraph. — " It is a fine story, manifestly based on 
facts, and told with no less picturesqueness than vivacflty. There 
is fighting enough in it, between ' black fellows ' and ' white 
fellows,' bushrangers and mounted police, to satisfy the combative 
proclivities of the most sanguinary British Schoolboy." 



THE IMPERSONATOR 

By MARY IMLAY TAYLOR 

Author of " On the Red Staircase," " Imperial Lover," 
"My Lady Ckncarty," etc. 

Illustrated by CH. GRUNWALD 

Crown 8vo, Cloth Gilt, 6s. 



Liverpool Post. — "Always bright and most agreeable, the 
book has that vague quality which can only be described 
as charm, while in the management of plot and character 
development it is far above the average. Mary is, indeed, a 
winsome character." 

Morning Post. — " Miss Taylor has succeeded in giving us an 
interesting novel." 

Ladies' Field. — " One gets thoroughly absorbed in it.'' 
Glasgow News. — " Pleasantly written and very readable." 

Dundee Advertiser. — "All the happenings are treated with 
charm and considerable naturalness." 



I'S 



tTbe ®lb Honbon H^ovels 

BY 

SIDNEY HERBERT BURCHELL 

Cheap Editions. Crown 8vo, Cloth Gilt, 3/. 6d. each. 



MY LADY OF THE BASS 

Birmingham Fast. — " A cleverly constructed story, and the 
characters are drawn with the skill of a master hand. ' My L«dy 
of the Bass ' is one of the best romances of its kind that has 
come from the press this year." 

THE DUKE'S SERVANTS 

People. — "Mr. Burchell is a master of the picturesque, and 
also has considerable strength in characterisation." 

World. — " A thoroughly well-written, humorous, and most 
readable production, skilfully constructed, and essentially a tale 
told in a merry vein." 

DANIEL HERRICK 

spectator. — " Distinctly a book to be recommended." 
Scotsman. — " Another powerful romance founded upon the 

social condition of London in the third quarter of the 

Seventeenth Century." 

IN THE DAYS OF 
KING JAMES 

Athenaum. — " The stories are well-written, readable 
romances, showing careful workmanship and scrupulous com- 
position." 

Birmingham Post. — " One seems almost to be reading some 
omitted chapters of Sir Walter Scott's ' Fortune of Nigel.' " 

' Sheffield Telegraph. — " Grips the reader's interest from the 
first, and holds it to the end." 

16 



" She is what is always and everywhere rare — a real humorist." 

Graphic. 
WORKS BY ^ ^ 

KATE DOUGLAS WIGGIN 



IVhat the Press say of her and her Books. 

Times. — " It is pleasant to meet with an American lady 

writer so cultivated in style, so susceptible to enthusiasm, and 

(O capable of seasoning her enthusiasm with quiet humour." 

Graphic. — "The best and brightest of American humorists." 

Pall Mall Gazette. — " Mrs. Wig^in has a fund of genuine 

and refined humour that is simply irresistible." 



REBECCA OF SUNNYBROOK FARM 

Crown 8vo, Cloth, fully Gilt back, 6s. 

This book has met with a phenomenal success, over z 1 0,000 
copies having been already sold, and is still in great demand. 

Bookman. — " From the moment when you see Rebecca, a 
imall child of eleven, to the end, some six years later, your in- 
terest never flags. The humour and pathos of it all is of the 
quiet, subtle kind that is almost as indescribable as a fragrance 
is. The characters are drawn clearly and intimately .... 
they are all fashioned with a skill and a sympathetic knowledge 
that makes them vividly real. The naturid life-likeness and 
humour of the book are perfect in their kind. Mrs. Wiggin 
herself has done nothing better, and this is very high praise." 

Spectator. — " By its gaiety, its tenderness, and its wit, as 
well as on the score of its subject, deserves a place on the shelf 
that holds Mrs. Ewing's ' Six to Sixteen.' " 

TIMOTHY'S QUEST. Illustrated by Oliver Herford. 

Cloth Gilt, 2j. 6d. 
A CATHEDRAL COURTSHIP. Illustrated by C. E. 

Bkock. Cloth Gilt extra, y. dd. 

PENELOPE'S ENGLISH EXPERIENCES. 53 Illustra- 
tions by C. E. Brock. Cloth Gilt extra, 6i. 

PENELOPE'S EXPERIENCES IN SCOTLAND. 56 Illus- 
trations by C. E. Brock. Cloth Gilt extra, 6j. 

PENELOPE'S IRISH EXPERIENCES. 50 Illustrations 
by C. E. Brock. Cloth Gilt extra, 6j. 

THE AFFAIR AT THE INN. By Mrs. Wiggin and 

others. Illustrated by Martin Justin. Cloth Gilt, y. 6d. 
17 



CURLY : 

A Tale of the Arizona Desert 
By ROGER POCOCK 

With Illustrations by STANLEY L. WOOD 
Third Edition, Crown 8vo, Cloth Gilt, 6s. 



Daily Mirror. — "A real good tale, thrilling- from the first 
page to the last." 

Birmingham Post. — " A wonderfully stirring story.'' 

Spectator. — "It is full of life and action without a halt in 
the interest from the beginning to the end, and thoroughly whole- 
some. . , ■ An eminently readable volume." 

Frys Magazine. — " A delightful character." 



WHEN CHARLES L WAS KING 

By J. S. FLETCHER 

Popular Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, Illustrated, 3/. 6d. 



Spectator..—^' It is quite worthy of a place beside the two 
romances, Walter Besant's ' Dorothy Forster ' and Coaan 
Doyle's 'Micah Clarke."' 

18 



Second Edition, 

TWIN SOULS 

A Romance of Duality 

By the Author of " Fallen Angels." 

With six half-tone Illustrations by NEWTON BRABY. 

Crown 8vo, Cloth Gilt, 6s. 



Scotland. — "Althougfh 'Twin Souls' belong-s to a serious 
type of fiction, best appreciated by students of life and other 
thoughtful persons, it is not without attractions for the general 
reader. To the latter it presents a succession of stirring and 
even exciting incidents ; to the former it offers in addition an 
instructive study of those subtle unseen forces which influence 
the thoughts and actions of men and women in their ordinary 
daily lives." 

Great Thoughts. — ''A charming story beautifully illustrated. 
. . . The style of the author is vhrid and flowing, and his de- 
scriptive power is excellent. ... So true are his delineations of 
family life that we are often reminded of the mastery of 
Jane Austen." 

Dundee Advertiser. — " The story runs on absolutely new 
lines." 

Mr. Macmillan, Glasgow, writes : — " I shall be glad to take five 
more copies of 'Twin Souls.' The author has set down beauti- 
fully that which was only a ' mysterious feeling ' often present 
with the writer. The reading of the book gave very great 
pleasure indeed, and the illustrations are simply perfect." 

An Art jfournal writes : — " ' Twin Souls ' is a work of fiction, 
but it is also something more. Possessing a well-contrived plot, 
it is a vivid and well-told narrative of absorbing interest. It also 
possesses a mystical charm, and presents a study of those spiritual 
forces which, exercising so great an influence on the actions of 
men and women, have a great attraction both for the thoughtful 
reader of fiction and the student of psychological phenomena. A 
vigorous attack on some of the burning evils of the day. such as 
gambling and the shady side of finance, also proclaim the book 
to be 'a novel with a purpose ' — a purpose which it admirably 
fulfils. Some charming drawings by Mr. Newton Braby illustrate 
the text. " 

19 



HALF A ROGUE 

By HAROLD MacGRATH 

Crown 8vo, Illustrated, Cloth, 6s. 

A Thrilling Story in which a Playwright and Actress are 
Chief Characters. 



Times.- — "The story is a gfood one, told with sincerity, 
and a gfrip of facts and character. " 

Dundee Advertiser. — " Harold MacGrath has given the world 
a charming- story. . . . The story should please the most 
fastidious taste in novel-reading." 

Pall Mall Gazette. — "The story can be recommended, if only 
for the pleasure that it gives to read about Patty Bennington, the 
charming heroine." 

Queen. — "The author's style is crisp and easy, and the 
dialogue is always very natural. . . . The book is delightfully 
illustrated by Mr. Harrison Fisher and is really a very readable 
novel." 

Madame. — "Curious, but fascinating. There are many 
exciting episodes in the book." 

Ladies' Field. — "A very clever and attractive novel, in- 
teresting and exciting. The book is admirably illustrated by Mr. 
Harrison Fisher." 

Daily News. — "The American novelist is generallv sure 
to give good entertainment. Mr. Harold MacGrath's romance 
is well worth reading. . . . Patty is just as lovelv as a. pipe 
dream." 

Hearth and Home. — " Clear cut, breathless, vital, entertain- 
ing." 

Western Morning News. — " This is one of the most interesting 
stories that have come to us from America for many years. . . . 
The womenfolk in the book are also very charming, and altogether 
this will be one of the novels of the season." 



MR. PRATT 

By JOSEPH C. LINCOLN 

Third Edition, Crown 8vo, Cloth, 3/. 6d. 



Daily Mail.—"H is a delightful tale. The book is full 
of genuine humour, and ' Mr. Pratt ' is racy of the soil. All the 
rest is pure joy. Van Brunt's efiorts to sail a boat, and his and 
Hartley's endeavours to cultivate the sandy soil of the 
Hermitage, their catching of clams — all is good for hearty and 
innocuous laughter. We do not know if this is a ' best-selling ' 
book in America; but we do know it ought to be." 

Daily Telegraph. — " For those healthy people who like to 
laugh when they read, this is a book that may be heartily 
recommended." 

Morning Post. — " ' Mr. Pratt ' is quite fresh and readable." 
Queen. — " Bright and humorous throughout." 

Ladies' Field. — " Their experiences are described with irre- 
sistible comicality. Mr. Lincoln's humour is fresh and 
abundant." 

Scotsman. — " Distinctly a clever piece of work." 

Dublin Express. — " ' Mr. Pratt ' is a book of the type which 
makes one, like Oliver Twist, ask for more." 

Yorkshire Post. — " Infectiously merry and amusing-," 

Literary World. — "Their adventures are told with much 
raciness, and the mother wit and caustic tongue of ' Mr. Pratt ' 
make the story a deliciously amusing one." 

Birmingham Owl. — " A genuine find. . . It is emphatically 
a book to read." 



A GUILTY SILENCE 

A Novel 
By SIDNEY WARWICK 

AND 

MULVY OUSELEY 

Crown 8vo, Cloth, 6s. 



Sir William Bull, M.P. — " It is so dramatic . . . . the charac- 
ters are boldly drawn and the scenes vivid— in fact, the story 
lives. ... I sat up till I finished it." 

Times. — "A full complex plot, well handled, with plenty of 
movement and stir of feeling." 

Glasgow News. — "This is a present-day Lancashire story of 
considerable ingenuity of plot. . . . It is a racy tale." 

Dundee Daily Advertiser. — " The tale is unfolded in a way that 
carries conviction." 

Catholic Times. — " A story that will interest many readers.'' 

Books of To-day and To-morrow. — " One of the best novels ot 
the month." 

Queen. — " The other night, when I was very tired, I looked 
out for what would be a light novel among those on my table 
waiting for review. My choice fell upon ' A Guilty Silence. "... 
I found it to be such a powerfully written and well sustained story 
that I forgot I was tired and sat up half the night reading it." 



THE SORROWS OF MICHAEL 

By MULVY OUSELEY 

{^Author oj " IQtty and the Viscount") 
Crown 8vo, Cloth Gilt, 6s. 



Daily Telegraph. — " A fascinating personality." 

Ladies' Field. —"The novel is vigorously written and of 
absorbing interest. It should do much to confirm the author's 
reputation as a clever writer of romantic fiction." 

Bookman. — " Truly there is not a dull page in the book." 



THE SOCIAL SECRETARY 

BY 

DAVID GRAHAM PHILLIPS 

1 1 Illustrations by CLARENCE F. UNDERWOOD 
Crown 8vo, Cloth Gilt, Gilt Top, j/. 



World. — " The young- writer is endowed with the enviable 
gift of conveying to his readers a. sense of satisfying amuse- 
ment in a confidential way, as though he and they were 
looking on at a delightful play in company. Good taste is 
a conspicuous quality of this charming cabinet picture of a 
section of society at Washington, with a little group in the 
foreground, unsurpassed in humour and characterisation by any 
American writer of the day known to us, . . . The pleasure of 
reading this book is greatly enhanced by the illustrations. 
Mr. Clarence F. Underwood is a second-self to the author in 
his representation of every characteristic of the persons in this 
brilliant comedy. The frontispiece especially is a masterpiece 
of expression." 

Glasgow Herald. — " Smartly written, and the humour keeps 

bubbling up all the time The illustrations match the 

story. " 

Daily Express. — "The story is written with skill and 
humour." 

Christian World. — " This is one of the smartest and brightest 
society skits imaginable, and there is sound worldly wisdom in 
its teaching, and no end of fun and good feeling." 

Pall Mall Gazette. — "Pleasant and clever story. , . . 
genuinely humorous." 

Glasgow News. — "The author is humorous and witty, and 
the tone throughout is good ; all the characters are drawn with 
effect and skill." 

Liverpool Post. — " A fascinating novel, distinctly original." 
23 



THE WITCHERY OF THE 
SERPENT 

By JAMES BARR 

{Author of " Laughing through a Wilderness ") 
Crown 8vo, Cloth, 6s. 

Glasgow News. — " Mr. James Barr has a facile pen, and his 
latest novel, which concerns itself largely with the inky life ot 
Fleet Street, is a breezy, entertaining affair of peculiar interest." 

World. — "The most admirable characteristic of this volume 
is its freshness." 

Tribune. — " It is an amusing tale, for Mr. James Barr writes 
lightly and with a lively sense of humour. " 

Standard. — "To have a few good hearty laughs over a very 
diverting novel, we can truthfully advise them to read ' The 
Witchery of the Serpent.' " 

Pelican. — "A very excellent and a very interesting story, full 
of good things from cover to cover. Mr. Barr does not believe in 
wasting time at the start. In the very first lines your interest is 
awakened, and from there till the end is reached you are whirled 
along in a plethora of incident and excitement, and when the 
finish is come you feel like the person in the meat extract 
advertisement — that you want some more.'' 

Daily Telegraph. — "Mr. Barr's pictures of Fleet Street are oi 
an intimate character, being sketched with such vigour and 
knowledge as will make them highly interesting, even to the 
layman ; he writes with humour and with such a talent for 
describing a row that he may almost be said to use a pugilistic 
pen. It is an amusing story, with sufficient love romance to give 
it the necessary sentiment." 

Dundee Advertiser. — "Amusing and vivacious story.'' 

Glasgow Herald. — " In its descriptive vigour, its wealth ot 
appropriate incident, its pervasive humour, and the excellence of 
its literary form the book is fully worthy of its predecessor." 

Newcastle Chronicle. — " A sprightly story, but perhaps the 
best things in the book are the sidelights upon newspaperdom, 
done by one who clearly knows the strange land from the inside." 

24 



/^ 



