Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



1^0 (s 






\ 



I 



THE "QUEEN" COOKERY BOOKS. 



'r.4t'-% 




s 5 



a> 



St 



>« 



Ji 









CO 





C/) 





C/) 



;j 








s 5 — — » 



. s 5 - 



S 



^ 



5* 



A ^ 



r- ~ 









at 5 55 



UJ 

< 



2 ^: 



»'>' 



THE "QUEEN" COOKERY BOOKS. 



NO. 9. 



SALADS, SANDWICHES, AND 

SAVOURIES. 



COLLECTED AND DE8CBIBED BY 



S. BEAT Y-POWN ALL, 

Departmental Editor " Housewife and Cuisine," (iaeen Newspaper, 
and Author of " A Book of Sances." 



SECOND BDlTiON' 



LONDON : 

HORACE COX, 

"QUEEN" OFFICE, WINDSOR HOUSE, 
BREAM'S BUILDINGS, E.G. 

1905. 



THE KEAV YORK 

PUBLIC Li'.i-ARY 

367449B 

ASTo::, hK:/.jX vnd 

TILDEI^ Fr.VW!)ATiONS 
B 194G L 



LONDON: 
PRINTED BT HORACB COT, WINDfOB H0U8K, BBBAM*8 BUILDINUS, KC. 



^ PEEFACE. 

? 

\ Little, if any, originality is claimed for the 
\*^following recipes, most of which have appeared in 
^the Cookery columns of the Queen during the 
Jlast eight or nine years, from whence they have 
i^fDeen collected at the request of many readers of 
ithe Queen, to save reference to back numbers not 
yalways within reach. Additional recipes have, how- 
C^ever, been given, to bring this little work as much 
x^up to date as possible; but all these, like the 
g previous ones, have been carefully tested, and are 
>(^ all (as I know from practical experience) well within 
Lthe capacity of any ordinary " good plain cook," 
V gifted with fair intelligence and a little goodwill, 
^fal desire also to take this opportunity of acknow- 
ledging my indebtedness to the various authors of 
standard foreign cookery books, and also to offer 
my grateful thanks to Mrs. A. B. Marshall, and 
several other well-known chefs, whose kindness 
has so materially helped and rendered possible my 
work in these last years. 

S. Beaty-Pownall. 

February f 1905. 



AdEertieeTtients . 



DELIGHTS 



XjIftCOX'N HXX] 




PXCODUOB 



WHITE 

CLOVER 

HONEY. 

Speoully Beleoted from the 
baat ApisrieB, and de- 
olared by oonnoiaaenTS to 
be the finest English 
Honey ever introduced 
to the pablio. Each jar 
beara over the cap a BcD 
Gnarantae Label with 
the words, "Onacanteed 
Pure English Hone;," 
withocit whioh, *nd the 
regiatered pietnre label, 
none ia gennine. 
Soldinllb.aEdai1i.aiaM 
Jan at li. or 2i. by the 
ninal dealer*, or a 1*. Jar 
will be tent direct from the 
hctory for ttampii li. 3d. 

cheesecake; CURDinJars,1s^d28. 
ORANGE BUTTER, in Jars, CJd. and Is. 

uid Or«n(M BnlWr lont on girtng 
or jir or each DEUOHT miLlIrS 



II Biunxt ot lb< Choei 



tree for P.O. Sa.eA. 



'/tlMa A CO., Ltd., BrlSBi Uncolnshir*. 



CONT ENTS. 



Fancy Salads. 



CHAPTEfi L 



PAGE 
1 



Sandwiches 



CHAPTER II. 



19 



Hors d'QGuvre... 



CHAP! R III. 



41 



Savouries 



CHAPl R IV. 



50 



CHAPIKR V. 



Savonries (continued)} 



85 



CHAPI'R VI. 



Garnishes, &c. 



I * • • • 



111 



A dveriitementt. 



■ "^^-''jla^^ By Appointment ti 
^.^ Kl^a and the Prin 

Wales. 



man 

D. & F. 

MUSTAR 

See that Colman'* name Is on tl 

CORPTOU 

For Blinc Msoim, Castardi 

Self-Risir 




Flour. 



SALADS, SANDWICHES, 
AND SAVOURIES. 



CHAPTEE I. 

FANCY SALADS. 

Fancy salads may scarcely seem to belong to this 
Series, and probably most people would consider 
their proper place to be amongst vegetables, but the 
fact remains tbat the proportion of dainty odds and 
ends which go to make up their whole, is often more 
animal than vegetable, whilst they are more and 
more becoming part and parcel of the list of 
savouries; and many a tiny salade a la mignonne 
plays a successful part amongst hors d'oeuvres. 

There are not many prettier, or more acceptable, 
dishes, especially in summer, than the fancy 
salad (if nicely prepared), and, still more to the 
point, few are more quickly and easily got up, or 
:^ore economical, if the housewife is an adept at 
what OTir grandmothers termed " elegant economy." 
They may be served in the ordinary salad bowl, in 
separate portions as salades a la mxguouue, Qx/^^kot^vi 



•• • • . ' 



« « • 



2 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 

be not stinted, as regular set dishes with a garnish, 
and possibly a border of aspic. 

The recipes following will give a good idea of 
both the simple and the more ornate kinds, 
remembering always that either can be turned into 
the salade a la mignonne by simply dishing the salad 
either on drained and seasoned artichoke bottoms, 
halved and seasoned tomatoes, or in paper cases, 
which, by the way, will be found a real economy (for, 
bought by the gross, their price is a very small affair), 
serving as they do to produce dainty dishes from all 
sorts of remains, which I once heard a clever French- 
woman describe as " les beaux restes en salade." 
Take, for instance, beef en vinaigrette. For this, 
properly, the cold houilli from the pot an feu should 
be used, but it is equally good if made with cold 
roast, or boiled salt beef. For this slice the meat 
down very thinly, and lay it in a deep dish (a regular 
salad bowl, though used at times abroad, is rather 
too deep for this). Now arrange well washed and 
boned anchovy fillets (or flakes of good cooked kippers 
or bloaters) in a trellis over the meat, sprinkle it all 
with minced chives, chervil, parsley, and cress 
(according to what you have at hand), season 
generously with oil, vinegar, and freshly ground 
black pepper, and serve, without, however, mixing 
it further. A version of a somewhat more ornate 
description answers excellently for cold roast beef. 
Remove all sinew, skin, or burnt parts fi-om the 
meat, seasoning it lightly with salt, pepi)er, and a 
very few drops of oil. Prepare a dressing thus : 
Ihit into SL basin half a teaspoonful of salt, a 



FANCY SALADS. 8 

good pincli of freshly ground black pepper (this 
freshness deserves far more attention than it 
obtain^ from British cooks), and a tablespoonful 
of tarragon vinegar ; stir this all together till the 
salt is perfectly dissolved, then work into the mixture 
three good tablespoonfuls of best Provence oil (this 
is usually far sweeter than the ordinary Lucca oil) 
till it is all well amalgamated ; have ready some cold 
boiled and sliced potatoes (the kidney, or waxy 
potatoes, are best for this), some sliced beetroot, 
and two or three hard-boiled and sliced eggs, 
together with the above ingredients (or as many of 
them as you like), and toss these in the dressing 
given above, mixing them well till all the dressing 
is absorbed and the ingredients thoroughly saturated. 
Now lift them out, pile them up in a dish, and 
arrange the meat neatly round. Some cooks, how- 
ever, use the sliced eggs, beetroot, and potato for a 
garnish, roughly mincing the meat, and tossing it 
in with the other salad material, but this is a matter 
of taste. Be it remembered that a salad should 
never be mixed in the bowl it is to be served in; 
especially is this the case when lettuce is used, as it 
is most dif&cult to get this -properly dry unless the 
salad maker takes the trouble to wipe each leaf indi- 
vidually, a trouble no average cook will take. But if 
well mixed in a kitchen basin the salad can be 
thoroughly tossed in the dressing, and then lifted 
into the salad bowl clear of superfluous moisture. 
Also bear in mind that the dressing should in no 
case be mixed with the salad till it is going to table, 
or it will inevitably make it sodden. If the salad 

B 2 



4 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 

must be prepared beforehand, arrange your disli, put 
the green stuff neatly on a plate on ice, or in a 
cold place, and the dressing ready mixed in a wide- 
mouthed, closely covered jar (for if the air gets to 
mayonnaise it makes it rank) ; the salad can then be 
quickly mixed at the last, and neatly dished, and 
will look and eat crisp and fresh. 

Fish can be made into a salad in precisely the 
same way, only varying the ingredients according to 
the fish or the season, but always sprinkle it- at the 
last with minced herbs, or foumiture as the French 
call it. For chicken use well washed and dried 
lettuce broken up (never cut lettuces !), peeled and 
sliced tomato, cucumber, artichoke bottoms, &c. For 
these the dressing given above is much to be recom- 
mended, and a good sprinkling of minced ham or 
tongue should not be omitted. 

As mayonnaise is a sauce that does not stand well 
(though a good spoonful of absolutely boiling water 
to the half pint, stirred in carefully at the last, will 
prevent its thickening unduly), the following recipe 
for ** cooked mayonnaise," for which I am indebted to 
M. C. H. Senn, may be useful : For this stir together 
in a basin a tablespoonf ul each of sugar, oil, and salt, 
and a full dessertspoonful of mustard, till perfectly 
smooth ; then work in the well-beaten yolks of three 
eggs, next a gill of vinegar, and lastly half a pint of 
milk or single cream, and stir these all over the fire 
in the bain-marie till of the consistency of custard, 
but without letting it boil. It is ready when the 
mixture wil coat the spoon thickly and smoothly. 
This, if tightty bottled, will keep for several days, 



PANCT SALADS. B 

and IB consequent!; most useful for picnics. StiU.it 
wants somewhat of the dehcacj of an ahsolutelj 
freshlj made majonnaise. 

Salade a, la, Rvxse. — Thia ia made with a macedoiiic 
of cold cooked v^etahlescut into neat pieces, or into 
olive or marble shapes, and the greater the varielj 
the better. Asparagus points, green ])eas, oauli- 
flowers broken up Bmall, sliced beetroot, turned (i.e., 
cut into balls) carrots and turnips, haricot at 
fl^eolet beans, all come in (in winter bottled in- 
canned vegetables answer capitally if care be taki'n 
to choose a good brand). When these are all cold, 
drain them well, and toss them in the oil and 
vinegar dressing given above, with (for a totu:Ti|ifiit 
of each of the vegetables mentioneil) about two 
tablespoonfuls of French capers, the same of I'rctinJi 
gherkins cut into dice, and the same of wiwlu'd, 
boned, and filleted anchovies, together with cifflitiK-ii 
or twenty stoned olives (some cooks omit the ainJiu^ 
vies, using the olives sold n-ady Ktuffud wj(,(j 
anchovy in their stead) ; and lastly a (mju()Ih „i 
spoonfuls of minced tarr^on and chervij, uuij h 
dessertspoonful of very finely miiicod cIiIvhh nr 
shaUot. When these ar.- ul] w.]' 
into the salad bowl 
quartered hard-boiled • 
season), little heaps • 
lobster, and small fill>'<> 
one version of this p') 
and there are very few i 
do not, find tiieir way j 
QookB uBp SSkita ol cold i 



very finely miiicod cIiIvhh nr 
e ar.- ul] w.ll „ux-\ in, («IB Jl 

Wl „;,„,i,ll Ujflh^ 

s ».„„„y ^m 

iIl-'<K <,\ .-.M lUU.A^^ 
p-'!»ilur .h,U. but J^r 
ir in/r>'dWjta tMj^V 

cold duckaft^^^ft 



6 SALADS, SANDWICHES, Ao. 

with slices of ham or tongue and f oie gras, bnt these 
belong to a rersion more correctly known as salade a 
VltaUemie, in which chicken, ham, or tongue, crayfish, 
and last, but not least, mayonnaise play important 
parts, but the method of marking is precisely the 
same. 

Salade de Homa/rd en Aejpic. — Slice down the body 
of a good lobster neatly; have ready some stiff 
aspic jelly made with delicately clarified fish stock 
for choice, and pour this into a border mould in a 
quarter inch layer ; when this is stiff, but not quite 
hard, lay in the pieces of lobster in a circle, with 
alternate slices of cucumber and leaves of tarragon, 
then pour in enough aspic to fill up the mould, and 
put it away to set. Break up one or more nicely 
washed and dried lettuce, and mix it with the 
trimmings of the lobster (reserving the claws), cut 
up fine ; then when the mould is set turn it out, pile 
up the lettuce, &c., well mixed with good mayonnaise, 
in the centre, and garnish with the reserved pieces 
of lobster, sliced cucumber, plovers' eggs, or hard- 
boiled hens' eggs (choose small ones) quartered, 
sliced tomato, &c., according to what you have 
handy. This can manifestly be varied to taste, and 
is especially good made of cold fish, and shrimps, or 
prawns. Eemember in making mayonnaise for fish 
salads that, though hardly correct, a teaspoonful 
of Burgess's essence of anchovy is a great addition 
to each half pint of mayonnaise, as it brings out the 
full flavour of the fish, though it should never be 
Bufiicient to be actually detected as a separate 
Barour* 



The naoB tckdmA^ s^qwss hl 'iut jM^srrxmisisB^ ^ssasu^ 
for one <^ Hie josaa Ajbssdsbl mu^inL 'cat*'Xf^ atu 

oyster flaTcor id '^Mt muaatj. -viu^ lur -ins «LSi&c 
should be eooisBd md iJkiwec tt ^s tiuc ^^^Ja^ 
11 for diis jon izse 99Qe3£xisau cr Iiac^ 
one most used in A-nw^-Um — %if^ sin»: jm. iaa^tpxt ul 
your oook tJie i x nwK'r.jt of ijun iKiebnr ^ i^us*: j: jt 
cooked, as, if peeSed &sl i: ^ vwfsat,*' liwgi n* 
be^zoot does, and kises stus: of jst lautftu?^ isuc 
flaTOur. AB aladfi, krw^^^ia vatgsk ^^Pi^aaBe^ 
should ahnTs scaad on ii^ ur ii. sum*: ^^rr <^^c 
place till waaled, a&d 'viieiL oi^iiSfC 'Uii: aba»c xiSifiiL 
or dish shoold be p^a^idd ii: igx. (ni«^ cbo. ful tc 
cracked or bn^Kn i^ iscL dpoeaL chois isi: ix^ao^ 
for this purposeL Scalkps loau ▼itas ir «&^jql, 
offer a welecHiie Tuietj frgsa |xann:s c? js^as^r. aaid 
make a partknlaiH' gtiod sad lOK^arT^airtj^ttaZ «bJA«a, 
Steep the fish for sn ikonr im wa^Mi 'wxsear, li^isi That 
in plenty of cold vater szkd ggrsiHr life^m g^sn^j f c^ 
twenty-fire minutes. Wbentt^ok&dplimgrrtLer^e&Zl^pi 
into cold water, drain w^ and slke tLeaa. Hare 
ready crisped and shred a mee head of cekzj, 
arrange this in a dish, pot the scallops on top, then 
coTer it all with white mayonnaise, acd serre 
garnished with slioed tomato, cociimber, and tinr 
celery tufts. 

Mock Crab Salad a VAw^ericaine. — ^Mash np from 
4oz, to 6oz. of any soft rich cheese with pepper 
(black and red), sdt, mustard (both French and 
English), and about a gill of best white wine rineirar 
mixed with a good teaspoonful oi essevie^ t^i ^\isiWs^ . 



8 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 

This should be as thick as butter. Flake some cold 
cooked cod, and put a little of this mixture on 
each flake. Now arrange this fish in the bowl, 
with broken up lettuce, celery (salsify, celeriac, or 
seakale can be used), sliced cucumber, &c., as is 
most convenient, seasoning all these regetables well 
with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper before using 
them; then cover it with tomato mayonnaise 
very smoothly, garnishing this with turned olives 
stuffed with filleted anchovy, hard-boiled and 
quartered eggs, &c. Any white fish can be used in 
this way. 

Lobster Salad for a Picnic, — Line an ordinary 
pudding basin with aspic jelly, and pack it lightly 
with flaked lobster, turned olives, anchovy fillets, 
and shreds of chilli skin (mind you get no seeds or 
it will be too hot for comfort), seasoning it all with 
the following: Mix together a dessertspoonful of 
French mustard (or English mustard rubbed smooth 
with equal parts of milk and tarragon vinegar), a 
saltspoonful of salt, and half that of freshly groimd 
black pepper, working into this gradually seven or 
eight good teaspoonfuls of salad oil to one of 
vinegar (the usual proportion for oil and vinegar in 
a salad dressing is one part vinegar to three of oil, 
but a much more delicate one is one part vinegar to 
seven or eight of oil); when this is well blended 
with the lobster run sufficient aspic jelly over it to 
fix it all, and let it stand till firm. Pack it in its 
mould, and when you reach your destination break 
up some nice young lettuces, wiping them well, and 
removing the outer withered leaves (these should 



FANCY SALADS. 9 

always be kept on till the last, as they help to keep 
the lettuce fresh), slice to them some cucumber and 
some nice young radishes, mix all well with mayon- 
naise (brought in a tightly stoppered wide-mouthed 
bottle), turn out the shape of lobster, and serre 
garnished with the dressed salad, and some ploTera', 
or quartered hard-boiled eggs. Salmon, prawns, 
crab, or indeed almost any fish, are good thus. 

Mayonnaise de Soles a la Cherhourgeoise. — Fillet 
some soles, and cut each fillet into two or more 
pieces, according to the size of the fish ; bat these 
out with a wet knife, season each with lemon juice, 
white pepper, and salt, and then roll each about 
some pieces of carrot (the size of a small wine cork, 
as the fillets should be small), fastening them in 
place with bands of buttered paper. Place these 
fillets in a pan with a sherryglassful of white wine 
(French for choice), a gill of fish stock or water, a 
pinch of salt, and a little lemon juice, and cook for 
twelve to fifteen minutes under a buttered paper, 
then lift out, and when cold slip out the carrots. 
Fill up the centre of each fillet with rich mayonnaise, 
into which you hare stirred some minced olives, and 
place the little rolls in an aspic-lined border mould 
alternately with an olive farced with a fillet of 
anchovy ; then set this all with enough aspic to fill 
the mould, and leave it till set. Meanwhile prepare 
a sauce thus : Make a custard with half a pint of 
nulk and the yolks of three or four eggs, seasoning 
this rather highly with salt, white pepper, and a 
good dust of coralline pepper, and set it aside till 
cold. Now put about a gill of Chablis, or good 



16 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 

French vinegar, into a pan with a small minced 
shallot, a peppercorn or two, and a pinch of salt, 
and boil this down sharplj till only a tablespoonful 
or so is left; then whisk it all very gradually to the 
cold custard, mixing in at the same time about two 
spoonfuls of shrimp pur^e (i.e., shrimps rubbed 
through a sieve' with a little butter), and a full one of 
roughly minced shrimps. Pour this mixture into 
some aspic-lined dariole moulds, pouring more aspic 
over the top to fix them, and leave till quite set. 
Now well wash, dry, and break up some good 
lettuce, turn out the border mould, arrange the little 
dariole moulds all round the top, and fill up the 
centre vdth the lettuce tossed in a good mayonnaise 
dressing, only adding this in at the last, and, if 
liked, mixing some shelled shrimps amongst the 
lettuce. 

Soles prepared thus are delicious if the centre of 
the mould is filled with a mixture of cold, cooked, 
sliced Jerusalem artichokes, sliced truffles, finely 
shred celery (or sliced cooked celeriac), and stewed 
mussels, or raw oysters, adding the liquor of the 
latter to the mayonnaise sauce. 

Treated thus it is known as Mayonnaise de soles a la 
Celestine, This can naturally be varied to any extent. 
Another form, Mayonnaise de soles a V Agnes, is made 
by filling an aspic-lined border mould with broken up 
lettuce, sliced radishes, cucumber, &c., all tossed in 
a rich mayonnaise sauce, garnishing the top with 
little rolled fillets of sole with a farced olive on the 
top of each, and filling the centre with the following : 
To a full gill or rather more of rich lobster sauce add 



a good seasonizig of coialEiie ueuwr,, % zol yf tflMy 
wliipped creoni, two tables^onnmls if :::u!!:k maT/^m^ 
naise sance, six se^ed anchovies^ ^od *iie '.rr^aor 
from the bead of the lobster. Thim ji sun ieiininfiii 
if sahxLon be uaed fngnwid of aole, ffatfTng *aift 
cooked salmoii neatly, arnBigfng d* «» ^xmrTiM^ 
round the top of the mould af «iiW, ami ^my 
np with the sauce as b6£iF>} and a ^BonaaOL of 
ploTcr's eggs. 

HuUret em Salade. — ^Ha^^ rsadj imni^ rick &Hnist» 
may<mnaue (mb six or ei^gfat wf^L^AofiDifi Xfim^jyun 
through a siere into tJicfte-qnaaHea of a pise of rich 
mayonnaise, with a fnE tabkspooafiil of tarr^ifr^ti. 
vinegar and three-quartos of a ptni: of jrxsn: liq-zui 
aspic); if the tomatoes are not a fsood itfA/jtxr 
add a drop or two of eaxmtne 'litit nr>t oth^rwiae^, 
and fill a border mould wrch this, ^dfUng tome 
peeled and qnartered tomatoes, and kc it set. 
Tom ont, and fill np the centre with ojsten, shred 
celery (or sliced cr»ked celeriae), eot np artichoke 
bottoms, and sliced cocnmber, ifasonrng the whole 
with the oyster Hqnor strained, lemon joice, cream, 
pepper and salt. If preferred, the American white 
mayonnaise, made with cream and lemon juice 
instead of oil and rinegar, may be used. But in 
any case serre this salad Tcry cold. 

Fancy salads are always improved by being served 
with a border mould of aspic jelly, either plain or 
filled with a garnish appropriate to the salad, for 
instance, sliced hard-boiled or plovers* eggs, fillets 
of fish, meat, or game, tiny sprays of parsley, chervil, 
tarragon, &c. Aspic is so easy to make for t«bis 



12 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &o. 

purpose, and so inexpensive, that it is well worth the 
little time and trouble it involves, for it certainly 
adds immensely to the dish. 

Mayonnaise de Saumon a la Jockey Club, — Take 
any remains of cold salmon and flake it neatly free 
from bones, skin, &c. Line a border mould with 
aspic, then fill it with the flaked salmon, some 
capers, anchovy fillets, and white mayonnaise, and 
leave till set. Turn out, place a crown of plovers' 
eggs round the top of the border mould, fixing them 
with chopped aspic by means of a bag and pipe, and 
fill up the centre with cooked asparagus points, new 
potatoes, and truf9.es sliced and seasoned with oil, 
vinegar, salt, and white pepper. A very nice and 
certainly more economical version of this is made by 
filling the centre with cold cooked new potatoes 
tossed in oil and vinegar, and sprinkled with minced 
parsley and chives, garnishing the top of the mould 
with tomato cups, prepared thus : Choose small 
round tomatoes, cut a round off each, and scoop out 
the pulp and seeds with a spoon, keeping the skin as 
whole and well shaped as you can, and leave the 
latter on ice till wanted. Now mix the pulp and the 
juice thus obtained with shred salmon (lobster, crab, 
shrimps, or anything handy of the kind), seasoning 
it lightly with coralline pepper, salt, and aspic jelly, 
allowing a spoonful of aspic for each tomato. As 
soon as this begins to stiffen fill up the tomatoes 
with the mixture in a dome shape, and directly this 
is hard, mask it over very smoothly with mayonnaise, 
and strew the top with minced olives, or, failing 
these, minced parsley, and use. 



FANOT SALADS. 13 

Needless to saj that any cold iUh can be used up 
in these ways, only yarying the garnishes. 

Maeedoine de Crahe en Mayonnaise. — Line a plain 
timbaUe or Charlotte mould with aspic, then fill it to 
the depth of an inch or so with either some of the 
contents of a bottle or tin of vegetable maeedoine, or 
else cold cooked vegetables of all kinds (carrots, turnip, 
cucumber, French beans, &c.), season with pepper, 
salt, oil, and vinegar, pouring sufficient aspic over it 
to set it well. Now fill up the mould to within one 
and a half inches of the edge with a crab puree made 
thus : Pick the flesh from a freshly cooked crab, and 
put the meat into a basin, mixing it with about a 
gill and a half of tartare sauce, a gill of stiffly 
whipped cream, and about two gills of just liquid 
aspic jelly ; stir it all well together, and use just as 
it is setting, covering this again with a layer of the 
vegetables as before, and running a layer of aspic 
jeUy over it to set it. Prepare a nice lettuce salad, 
using a French salad dressing and a good sprinkle of 
mixed herbs (parsley, chives, tarragon, chervil, &c.), 
then turn out the mould of crab, and serve garnished 
with seasoned lettuce, plovers' eggs (if in season), 
little heaps of caviare, &c., all round. Needless to 
say, this is equally good if any other fish, to say 
nothing of poultry or game, is substituted for the 
crab. These will give some idea of the use of fish 
in salads, but, indeed, strange as it may sound, 
chicken or game can in almost every case replace 
the fish. 

Chicken Salade aux Tomates. — The chicken for 
this dish should be boiled, or stewed, in equal parts 



14 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &o. 

of milk and stock, and be allowed to get quite cold 
in this liquor ; then cut it up very neatly, obtaining 
as many fillets as possible. The bones and trim- 
mings are then returned to the liquor in which the 
bird was cooked and boiled down till all the good- 
ness is extracted, when you skim and strain it and 
use it for a white chauxfroix sauce by pouring it on 
to some white roux (allowing half a pint of stock to 
every 2oz. of roux) ; then again bring it to the boil, 
with |oz. of leaf gelatine to each half pint of sauce, 
and cook sharply till it is well reduced and coats the 
spoon on lifting the latter. Just as this is setting, 
mask the filleted chicken very evenly and smoothly 
with it. Have ready some good celery cut into 
Julienne strips and steeped in cold water to crisp it ; 
mix to this some blanched and peeled walnuts 
lightly chopped, and stir this all in white mayon- 
naise asjpic (two good tablespoonfuls of white 
mayonnaise, made with cream and lemon juice 
instead of oil and vinegar, to half a pint of aspic 
jelly), and pour the whole mixture into a border 
mould. When firm turn out and fill up the centre 
with the trimmings of the fowl, some crisped celery, 
and tomatoes, all cut into a kind of Julienne strips, 
seasoning it all well with oil, vinegar, salt and 
pepper. Arrange the chicken fillets round the top 
of the mould alternately with slices of nice red, 
cooked tongue cut to match, garnishing it all with 
chopped aspic and turned olives farced with fillets of 
anchovy. Remember the success of this dish 
depends in great measure on the centre filling being 
mixed and seasoned just as it is sent to table, while 



FANCY SALADS. 15 

the tomatoes should have been stood on ice some 
time before use. " This dish is an American one, a«d 
to be eaten in perfection should be served in an 
outside bowl full of crushed ice. It cannot be too 
strongly impressed both on cooks and house mis- 
tresses that the success of all salads and mayonnaises 
alike depends in great measure on the freshness of 
the mixing. A properly mixed French dressing will 
not deteriorate so much, though, of course, it is never 
in perfection save when fresh, but a mayonnaise which 
has to stand any time exposed to the air is absolutely 
and irredeemably ruined, the sauce becoming rank 
and discoloured, whilst the ingredients mixed with it 
are sodden and flabby. If a mayonnaise has to 
stand for any time it is far better to enclose the 
mayonnaise itself either alone, or mixed with 
vegetables, &c., in an aspic-lined mould, as this 
excludes the air and keeps the mixture in relatively 
good condition. 

Lamb Salad a la Printaniere. — Carefully braize, 
or roast, the best end of a neck of lamb, and when 
perfectly cold trim it into neat little cutlets, dipping 
each of these as trimmed in mint jelly (two good 
tablespoonfuls of mint sauce stirred into half a pint 
of aspic and used just as it is setting) and allow 
them to set. Arrange these en couronne, and fill up 
the centre with the broken up hearts of young 
lettuces, and, if liked, very small spring onions, and 
toss the whole in some good mayonnaise ; then serve 
garnished with plovers* eggs and chopped aspic. 
For another version of this dish you cut neat slices 
from some cold roast lamb, trimming off all skin 



16 SALADS, SANDWICHES, Ac. 

and sinews, but leaying a fair proportion of fat. 
Pill a border mould about an inch deep with the 
mint jelly, and when firm turn it out, pile up the 
lamb with lettuce mayonnaise, as above, in the 
centre, and serve with the top of the border garnished 
alternately with plovers' eggs and turned olives 
farced with mayonnaise. 

Beef Salad a la Chateau. — Slice some cold roast 
or braised beef thinly, season each slice with salt, 
spiced pepper, and chopped olives or capers, roll 
each up neatly, and cut into two-inch lengths; 
sprinkle each with finely scraped horseradish, and 
then mask lightly with a little aspic jelly to fix the 
garnish and to glaze the rolls, leaving these till 
perfectly set. Fill a border mould about an inch 
deep with mayonnaise aspic, to which you have added 
mixed olives or capers (according to what you used 
with the beef) and some washed, boned, and filleted 
anchovies. When set, turn this out and fill the centre 
with a macedoine of cold cooked vegetables tossed 
in oil and chilli vinegar, with a good dust of freshly 
minced tarragon and chervil. Arrange the rolls of 
beef on the border mould with a light garnish of 
scraped horseradish. 

Salade a la Paysanne. — For this you mix 
together pickled red cabbage, sliced cold potatoes, 
and either cooked celeriac or celery root, seasoning 
it all with pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar. Arrange 
this in a kind of wall round the dish, and fill up 
with sliced cold salt or stewed beef, lightly dusted 
with salt and freshly ground black pepper, and il 
liked a few drops of oil. 



FANCY SALADS. 17 

Scdade Suedoise. — For this toss together pickled 
hernng freed from skin and bone, and trimmed into 
fillets, cold roast or stewed beef, cold boiled potatoes, 
and sour apples, all chopped roughly, with capers 
and sliced French gherkins ; seasoning it with a 
plain oil and yinegar dressing, and garnishing it 
with stoned olives, filleted anchovies, and shreds of 
red chillies. Another variation of this consists of a 
mac^doine of vegetables mixed with cold potato 
sliced, sliced beetroot, and cold sausage, garnished 
as above, and served with a ravigote sauce — i.e., a 
mayonnaise to which you have added a little extra 
tarragon vinegar, a spoonful of cream, together with 
some chopped parsley, cress, and tarragon, with a 
drop or two of vegetable green colouring, to bring it 
all to a pale apple green. Be careful not tx) overdo 
this colouring. 

Salade Flamande. — ^For this you trim some good 
bloaters, removing all bone and skin ; slice down 
some sour apples, beetroot, cold cooked potatoes, 
Brussels sprouts, cardoons, or seakale (according to 
what you have), and some cauliflower, and toss in 
an oil or vinegar salad dressing, and serve garnished 
with the filleted bloaters. Some persons use sliced 
Hamburg beef instead of, or together with, the 
bloaters. 

Watercress and Apple Salad (Frejch). — Well 
wash, pick over, and dry some nice fresh watercress 
and mix it with rather more than half its bulk of 
good, sharp, and very thinly sliced apples ; toss in a 
French salad dressing, or in mayonnaise, as you 
please, and serve with either hot or cold roast beef. 

o 



18 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 

This must be made when wanted, or the sliced apple 
will discolour. 

The above, which are naturally nothing like] an 
exhaustive list, may serve to give some ideas as to 
the many ways in which scraps of all kinds can 
readily be tossed up into a savoury addition to an 
insufficient menu, for, as said above, every kind of 
fish, flesh, or fowl, to say nothing of vegetables, is 
suited to the salad bowl. 



.J 



CHAPTEB n. 

SANDWICHES. 

Th?ks are few people who have not, at one time or 
another, had canse to me the ignorance of the 
arerage cook in the matter of sandwiches, oven 
potting ontof court at once the fossilised remnants 
of prehistoric ham, petrified beef, and sawdust - 
sharing bread that figure under the name at some 
of our railway stations, to the imfeigned astonish- 
ment of the foreign traveller, who does not know 
whether to take them seriously or not. Cortainlv 
these articles of food have progressed since the 
days of the gambling earl, who, to save interrupting 
his game by dinner, had pieces of meat placed 
between slices of bread and butter and brought to 
him at the card table, incidentallv bestowinsr his 
name on the provision. Nowadays sandwiches may 
be roughly divided between those intended for 
utility and those fancy ones which figure at smart 
five o'clock tea and other tables. The former 
consist principally of thin plain bread and butter, 
neatly trimmed to fit pocket or sandwich case, 
inclosing slices of meat of any kind, seasoned to 

o 2 



20 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &e. 

taste, and often kept moist by the addition of a 
slice or two of cucumber, tomato, or lettuce ; the 
latter are tiny mouthfuls of all kinds of savoury 
food, to stimulate and excite the appetite without 
being really of any great nutritive value. A few direc- 
tions may be given for each kind. In any case tin 
loaves are best, and should preferably be twenty- 
four hours old. Butter, slice them about one- 
eighth of an inch in thickness, and cut off the crusts. 
There is a great knack in spreading these slices, and 
where the time can be spared the butter should be 
beaten to a cream by hand or with a delicately clean 
wooden spoon. It can then readily be seasoned to 
taste with pepper, salt, <fec. M. C. H. Seun, the 
well-known chef of the National Training School of 
Cookery (to whom, by the way, I am much indebted 
for my sandwich knowledge), advises the following 
mixture for spreading the bread: Weigh and beat 
|lb. of fresh butter to a cream, then mix in lightly a 
gill of stiffly whipped cream, with mustard (French 
or English), salt, and, if liked, a little cayenne or 
coralline pepper to taste. This butter, by the way, 
if kept on ice or in a cold place, keeps good for a 
fortnight or so. Savoury butters of all kinds are 
extremely good for sandwiches, and being very easy 
to make should be kept handy in a house where 
sandwiches are in request. 

Cayenne, coralline, mustard, or curry butter is made 
by beating 4oz. or 5oz. of fresh butter to a cream, 
and incorporating with it a teaspoonful of either 
pepper (the coralline gives a pretty red colour 
especially suitable for lobster, shrimp, or other fish 



SAJiDWICHES. il 

sandwich), or nther more of t'uiii jk^^^j it 
mostaTd floor, in the tvo lm<eT e&acs A^^iizt^ & ol^I 
of cayenne and a few drops of le3i»ii ^ini^ or cLiL: 
▼inegar. 

Amekorjf butter is made by well w^asiiiiz. lirr.-r.j. 
and pconding eight anehoTies. wc-rtiii^ izi -rrime ::' 
butter into them as tou pound < sS-rTirz tLriz. s.z tl- 
last, if YOU think the b^nes hare n-M \*eKZi jr: jierlj 
remoTed), and finallv rub this op sn>?'hlT wizh ^:z. 
to 5oz. of fresh, or the savvurr b^ner £r^t zrre-. 
Essence of anehoTr or an-jhorr r<a»te itat le :ii«ei 
instead of the fist, but is not »*:» delicate. Lzhri-.r. 
prawn, or shrimp bmtter is made in the skme ^2.7. 
using the corals spawn, and creamj p^rts •:•£ ti^ 
first fish, and, when pounde«i. inc?rp->ratiii:^ it witl: 
some of the flesh cut into minute •li«:-e and envUvrh 
fresh butter to make a nice p-aste. flavouring an i 
moistening it with a little Wmon jui»:!e or chilli 
Tinegar and coralline pepper. For prawn or shrimp 
butter use about a pint of shell-ed shrimps, or an 
equivalent amount of prawns, to 4oz. or ooz. of 
fresh butter, with a eood dash of cavenne or coral- 
line pepper (this has the prettiest colour), a little 
lemon juice, or chilli or anchovy vinegar, and a 
suspicion of mace. A very excellent butter can be 
made in this way, only using curry powder instead 
of the cayenne, though adding a dash of the latter 
to give piquancy. 

Horseradish hutter, or Crtine raifartj is made bv 
grating down some horseradish as finely as possible, 
then incorporating it with creamed butter or thick 
whipped cream (using three tablespoonfuls of the 



22 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &o. 

horseradish to 4oz. of butter or a gill of cream), and 
flavouring it with lemon juice or chilli vinegar and a 
dash of coralline pepper. MaUre cPhotel butter: 
For this blanch some good parsley, press it well in a 
clean cloth till dry (but do not squeeze or wring it), 
then mince it very finely, and pound it with fresh 
butter, a seasoning of salt and white pepper, and 
lemon juice, using a tablespoonful of the minced 
parsley and the same of strained lemon juice to each 
l^lb. of butter. If 3oz. or 4oz. of washed, boned, 
and pounded anchovies, or an eqmvalent amount of 
essence of anchovy or paste, be added to this it 
becomes the well-known green butter. Another form, 
sometimes called ravigotte butter, is made by poiuid- 
ing together a good spray each of parsley, tarragon, 
and chervil, a tiny shallot, and some chives, with a 
full ounce of butter, a drop or two of green v^etable 
colouring, and either a teaspoonful of essence of 
anchovy or some chopped and pounded gherkin, 
lastly working in 3oz. or 4oz. of fresh butter and a 
dash of grated nutmeg. (This last is also known as 
beurre printanier by M. Urbain Dubois and other 
chefs.) Sardine butter is made in the same way by 
skhining, boning, and pounding eight sardines, then 
mixing them with two or three tablespoonfuls of 
blanched and minced parsley, and pounding them 
again together, working in gradually 4oz. of fresh 
butter and a dash of cayenne. 

Devil butter. — Put into a pan a shallot, a spray or 
two each of parsley, taiTagon, and chervil, all minced 
fine, and a bay leaf, with enough chilli vinegar to 
cover them. Let it boil up, then leave till cold. 



BA3CDW1CESB. 



when joa remci'vt tSm- hsi^JeaE. auc sisul iitr: Tiir-rjsc 
Pound titree or ionr icmnLf^Ki» "imr ouf: usirc-i^^JLAfri 
egg jolk, 4a£. lnzc«er, ittf: Itsn* fine mmliT. -^zxl k. 
spoonful id cuiT} }iitfiS£r 'dL aunt smmriL . in^a tmn^, 
it, moJKtegTTng it idtL Jk jk^ of ^j»t ^jut&c. ksuL. 
adding eitiier esv^amt ar h. oju^ ir 'Swi- it ua^toL ^ 
taste. 

Watercrem InsUBr. — C^iPimt iUtt intsei joic ^J^rtsu^^r 
leaves, wt^ va^ drsm soic crj 'fnsn^ iljusl miwut 
as fin^T as possbJ^r jsnd ^uex tiii^ai. m -wxfi, a^^ nxutn. 
fresh batter ms i^ist irill '2L£ii. ii!st»tminr i^ ^ul 
do so with a IzHLle sshix. wLiV: i^g#^, isoic & l^w 
drops of f^am or fihTn Ti:i**fr3ir. ij^- !i«auLa. 7111':-^. 
Some cooks waLih ao^ udn'je liu*: W£:;^^'jr>^isi tin'^^ 
before adding the l^tciar, liizi r -ifrifz^^sj d oc -»ii'jr 
is sufficient, aizid grr*j§ a stirv'L.i^s' wii:v«ri;r-^fte* :£iiT.rjr 
to the batter. Lazid GrB» j* t*2t ^c#>d ir *>-^» wix 
also. 

All these hiJti/=T% urt *:X'j^I»*3rt f cy spr^sikCiL^ iL*: 
slices of bread and bnTuex Tiir?d fo-r /-/ ff-j-rAr-^ "- ^ iLr 
sliced meat, g^^^n^^e? ^-^, TurriL^ ii*em a/^jordii^ i*-j 
what joa use, e,g., nsn^ ajic:*0Tj or mustard hzraer 
for beef, anchoTj or saT'line bnrter for mutton, 
maitre d' hotel for fish, or Lim hMti4rr for chicken, 
game, &c. This last is maie hj mincing or trr^ti^g 
any remains of cold cooked ham, caref ollv removin:;: 
all skin, gristle, or outside pieces ; to each pint of 
this mince add a teaspoonful of made mustard, a 
dust of cayenne, and, if the ham be Terr lean, a 
tablespoonful of butter. When thoroughly pounded 
together press this into jars, paste paper over, cover 
down closely, and set these jars in the bain-marie or a 



24 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &o. 

large stewpan to three parts of their depth in boiling 
water, cover down the pan, and simmer it all slowly 
for two hours, then lift them out, and let them stand 
till cold, when you remove the covers and the papers, 
run a little clarified butter over them, and keep in a 
cold, dry place. When wanted for use rub up with 
a little more fresh butter. 

Any of these butters can be used as separate 
sandwiches, spread on thin slices of brown or white 
bread, the crust removed, and the slices rolled up 
cigar-fashion, pinching each in the middle to keep 
it in shape, in which form they also make delicious 
Tiors d^ceuvres ; or they can, as said before, be used 
to butter the bread as an adjimct. 

Meat cut for sandvnches should be sliced thinly 
and neatly, all skin, hard parts, or sinews carefully 
removed, and then be delicately seasoned with salt, 
pepper, &c. Sandwiches are greatly improved by 
the addition of sliced and pared cucumber, lettuce 
leaves, mustard and cress, or tomatoes (dipped in 
boiling water to make the j)eeling easier, and then 
stood on ice till wanted, when they must be sliced 
with a sharp knife, the seeds and some of the water 
removed and used at once) ; these vegetable addi- 
tions may be used plain, or they may be slightly 
seasoned with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper to taste. 
Sliced hard-boiled egg is excellent treated thus, and 
goes well with tomatoes or lettuce. 

Sandwiches are, needless to say, best when fresh 
made ; if to be packed, wrap them up in lettuce 
leaves, and finally in grease-proof or " butter " paper. 
If they have to stand any time (say for five o'clock 



SANDWICHES. 25 

tea, or light refreshments), the best plan is to jjilo 
them neatly on a dish, cover with lettuce leaves, and 
lay over all a damp (but not wet) cloth, and k<ic*p in 
a cool place. Almost anything can be used for 
sandwich filling of the utilitarian kind, but re;^ard 
should be paid to the occasion for which ihay are 
made. For instance, if for travellers or for a slioot- 
ing lunch, do not use material which will induce 
thirst, such as highly salted beef or ham, too 
strongly pickled anchovies, &c., for thirst is not 
easily allayed on a journey; and on the hill or in 
the turnips, however near at hand a F^everage 
may be, drinking does not conduce to straight 
shooting, even if cold tea, innocent of any- 
thing but a slice of lemon, be the modest 
" quencher " preferred. Hostesses who give thought 
to such details are always blessed by those whom 
they cater for thus thoughtfully. Whilst on the 
subject of sporting lunches, a word may be said for 
sweet sandwiches, which axiapt themselves to mascu- 
line taste far more than women always wot of. For 
these may be recommended small scones sli(;ed, 
and spread thickly with clotted or separated 
cream, either plain or flavoured with vanilla sugar, 
grated chocolate, golden syrup, or sieved jam, as you 
please ; or thinly sliced brown bread spread with 
" Guards' sauce " or " Brandy butter " (for this beat 
equal quantities of fresh butter and brown fcane) 
sugar to a light white crc»am, flavour to taste with 
lemon juice and grated nutmeg, or with a liqueur- 
glassful of brandy, rum, or any liqueur to taste;, or 
any good Viennese icing may be used to spread the 



26 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &o. 

bread with. Sliced Hovis bread spread with thick 
cream on half the slices and chocolate icing on the 
other half is exceedingly toothsome, if not precisely 
hygienic. 

Then there are the " Pains fourres,'* i.e., small 
dinner rolls (sometimes called Florentines or half- 
penny rolls;, from which you cut off a piece, scoop 
out the inside crumb, and replace this with a delicate 
salpicon, or mince, of any kind of fish, flesh, or fowl, 
mixed with mayonnaise, tartare, or any white or 
brown sauce suitable, replacing the portion cut ofE 
at the last. If preferred little brioche rolls or 
fingers (such as are used for coffee or cream eclairs, 
only making the paste with salt and a dash of 
coralline instead of sugar) can be substituted for the 
rolls. Lastly, there is the heefsteaJc sandwich, always 
popular with master or man when out shooting, &c. 
For this cut a good but rather thin steak from a 
piece of well-hung round, and either fry, broil, or 
stew it as you please. Have ready slices of bread 
and butter cut to match and trimmed neatly ; then 
lift the meat off the fire, season with salt and 
freshly-ground black pepper, and place it hissing 
hot between the slices of bread, piling one sandwich 
on the other ; wrap at once in butterproof paper, 
and eat cold. Of course, these can be modified by 
using delicate fillet steak, and spreading the bread 
with any of the savoury butters given as above, but 
the simple form first given is generally appreciated 
by all. 

Fancy sandwiches should be cut small, and when 
a variety are offered, it is well to keep each sort of a 



SANDWICHES. 27 

different shape, as, for instance, fingers of foie gras, 
circles of caviar, triangles of potted game, <fcc. In 
many houses little cards, with each variety neatlv 
written on them, are slipped on to tinv skewers, and 
one fastened into each pUe of sandwiches to declare 
their nature, and save the guests from taking a kind 
that might possibly disagree with them. Where 
extra daintiness is desired, the sandwiches are some- 
times coated with white, brown, red, or other 
chanfroix sauce, and are then brushed over with 
just liquid savoury jelly to glaze them. (Do not use 
aspic for this purpose unless the sandwich is mixed 
with mayonnaise.) Or again, the little morsels are 
lightly buttered, and then dusted with lobster coral, 
coralline pepper, minced parsley, Ac, to taste, but 
the disadvantage of these is the butter, which 
renders them dangerous for delicately gloved fingers. 
As said before, almost all kinds of savoury butter 
(of which a variety have been given) can be used to 
spread the bread with, and either used plain, or 
mixed with any minced or grated ingredients to 
taste, and either covered sandwich fashion or rolled 
into little cigar-shaped rolls, for which purpose the 
bread must be cut very thin, a dexterous tweak 
being given at last to the " waist " of the roll to 
keep it in shape ; or small water biscuits can be used 
instead of bread, generously spread with any of the 
savoury butters, &c., and firmly pressed together, by 
way of a change. The following, which necessarily 
represent but a very few of the fancy sandwiches, 
may serve as examples : 

Aberdeen Sandwich (sometimes called Kolled 



28 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 

Sandwich). — Pound together 4oz. minced cooked 
chicken, 2oz. ham or tongue (freed from skin, &c.), 
loz. creamed butter, two tablespoonfuls of veloute 
sauce, and four to six tablespoonfuls of freshly-' 
made white breadcrumbs. Dust a pastry board 
with breadcrumbs, lay on it a little heap of the 
mince, and pat it out with a palette knife dipped in 
hot water into oblongs 2 Jin. long by IJin. wide. 
Trim the edges carefully, slip the knife imder, and 
roll it carefully as you lift. If too moist to roll, add 
«nore crumbs ; if too dry, it will break, and must be 
moistened with a little more sauce. Success depends 
entirely on the consistency. Serve with mustard and 
cress. These sandwiches can be made in a variety 
of ways ; for instance, use game instead of chicken, 
with ham, espagnole or game sauce, and brown 
breadcrumbs ; or white fish with bdchamel and 
minced parsley, flavouring the bdchamel with a drop 
or two of essence of anchovy ; or lobster, prawns, or 
salmon, with cardinale or aurore sauce, using in 
both cases white breadcrumbs ; or, lastly, green or 
maitre d'hotel butter rubbed up with one hard-boiled 
egg yolk for every 3oz. or 4oz. of the butter, and 
either white or brown crumbs. 

Alexandra Sandwich, — Mince finely two parts 
chicken or game to one part tongue or ham, and one 
part minced cooked mushrooms or truffles. (With 
game, especially the brown-fleshed varieties, mush- 
rooms are always an improvement.) Melt loz. of 
glaze and a leaf or two of best gelatine in some good 
brown sauce, and stir into it over the fire the 
prepared mince, stirring it steadily till quite hot, 



SANDWICHES. 29 

and till the gelatine and glaze are perfectly dis- 
solyed; then turn it all into a square mould and 
leave on ice till set. Have ready thinly sliced and 
trimmed white or brown bread and butter (accord- 
ing to the colour of the meat used), and lay a slice 
of the mince, sandwich fashion, between two slices 
of bread. Trim and serve garnished with water- 
cress. 

Anchovy and Egg Sandwich. — Wash, bone, and 
pound ten or twelve anchovies with three hard- 
boiled egg yolks, a spoonful of curry powder, a dust 
of cayenne, two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan, 
and enough creamed butter or thick cream to make 
a smooth paste. Spread this on very sparsely 
buttered bread (white or brown), and finish as 
usual. 

Anchovy and Lax Sandwich. — Beat up 2oz. of 
anchovy paste with 4oz. of fresh butter, seasonin^^ it 
to taste with coralline pepper. Spread some thinly 
sliced Hovis bread with this, and strew it ratlier 
thickly with chopped lax ; have ready as many slices 
of bread spread with thick mayonnaise instead of 
butter, and press the two sets together, trimming 
and finishing ofE as usual. 

Beef Sandwich. — Shce down some thin bread, 
butter it with mustard, curry, or any other savoury 
butter, and spread half with very thin sHces of cold 
roast beef, covering this with a small leaf of lettuce, 
sliced tomato, or cucumber ; cover with the rest of 
the buttered bread and finish as before. 

Spread some thinly buttered bread with 

thick horseradish cream (a finely grated coffee- cupful 



30 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 

of horseradish, and a gill each of thick mayonnaise 
and thick or whipped cream, well mixed), lay a 
slice of beef on this, and cover with thinly sliced 
and seasoned tomato and more bread and butter 
These may be varied by using minced olives instead 
of the horseradish, or mutton may be used instead 
of beef. 

Beef Sandwich a la Wellington. — Bone, well wash, 
and pound loz. of anchovies with 4oz. marinaded 
tunny fish, and sieve it. Mix this pur^e with 6oz. to 
8oz. finely minced cold beef (or mutton or veal can be 
used), a few turned and minced olives, a spoonful or 
so of capers, and the hard-boiled sieved yolks of 
two eggs. Season to taste, and spread the mixture 
on brown bread and butter, press it well together, 
stamp it out neatly, butter the top lightly, and 
sprinkle with sieved hard-boiled white of egg, 
coralline pepper, and minced parsley. 

Bloater Sandwich a VImjperiale. — Whip 2oz. of 
bloater cream, or paste, with 4oz. of creamed butter 
or thick cream, spread it on brown bread and butter, 
sprinkle it with minced parsley and tarragon, and 
finish ofE as usual. 

Caviar Sandwich, — Slice some bread, white or 
brown to taste, and spread half rather thickly with 
creamed butter or thick cream, seasoned with 
coralline pepper, and half with the fresh grey-green 
Astrachan caviar, seasoned with lemon juice. Press 
lightly together, and finish as before. Or spread 
the thinly buttered bread rather thickly with lemon 
and coralline pepper- flavoured caviar, and on top 
of this lay roughly minced lobster, prawns, or 



SAKDWICHESL SI 

shrimps, previously seasoned with oil, Tine^rar, sah* 
and pepper. Finish oflP as usuaL 

Celery and Walnnt S^tmJinVJI, — ^Blanoh and shivd 
small two parts of good white celerr, and blanch and 
chop one part of good peeled walnuts, mixing these 
all with some rather thict white mayonnaise vniade 
with lemon juice and cream instead of oil and 
vinegar), and spread this on lightly buttered brown 
or white bread. Some people add a dust of coral- 
line and a good proportion of grated Parmesan to 
this. 

Cheese Sandwich, — ^Work to a paste cream oil 
butter, freshly grated cheese, and a little anchovy 
paste, season with pepper and very little salt, and a 
drop or two of tabasco, or rather more of anchovy or 
chilli vinegar, spread on thin brown bread and 
butter, roll it up, and serve with seasoned water- 
cress. 

(Oniyere) Sandwich. — Spread lightly 

some bread and butter with French mustard, cover 
this with thinly sliced or grated Gruyc^re, season 
with coralline pepper, but no salt, cover with more 
bread and butter, cut into fingers and use. 

(Curried) Sandwich. — Chop up any odd 

pieces of cheese after removing the rind; for ^Ib. of 
this mince allow 3oz. of butter and a dessertspoonful 
of curry paste; pound till perfectly smooth, and use. 
If this paste is pressed into pots and covered with 
liquefied butter to keep it air-tii^ht it will koc^p w<41. 

Cod*8 Boe Sandwich, — Fry a small minc'<»d onion 
in Joz of butter till lightly browned ; tli^ii Hi'ir in 
some fresh cooked cod's roe and liv(*r irunc<<d, 



L 



of horsurttiltitli 
&Dd tliick or a : 
alice nf boil .n. 
aud Beaaonpil ln' 
These may lie v.i.-. 
of the horserwii-i 
of beef. 

Beef Santli' >■ 
and poiiad 1 1 ' - 
timny fish, niiii 
8oz. finely mill".- 
tiBed), & ievf t.iii 
so of capers, \f 
two eggs. Sc»*-i' 
on brown brood -^ 
stamp it out 11-^- 
sprinkle with ■ 
coruUine f>ep|ii t 

liliMiUir nreflni, <■. 
or thick eroam,. ' 
sprinkle it will. 
finish off »« u«ii<< 
Oaviar 8an-l" 
brown tn twrti-, ,- 
(.•n>;uned butli-i 
coralline peppm, 

lightly togfthc., 
tiip thinly buttrr 
auil coralline y- 
of this Ifiy fi'i. 





32 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &o. 

ueasoning it all with coralline pepper, salt, minced 
parsley or olives, and a few drops of chilli vin^ar 
or lemon juice; stir it over the fire for a few 
minutes, then pound, sieve, and spread it when cold 
on brown bread and butter. A few drops of essence 
of anchovy may be added to this. 

Crab Sandwich (Mock), — Steam 4oz. of herring or 
mackerel roes, and when cold pound it with 4oz. 
minced shrimps, loz. butter, loz. grated Parmesan, 
a seasoning of black pepper, cayenne, salt, and 
lemon juice, working gradually into it a table- 
spoonful of cream, a few drops of chilli or tarragon 
vinegar, and a little thick white sauce. Have 
freshly toasted but cold toast, split, spread the inner 
sides with the mixture, press very lightly together, 
and serve. If served on biscuit-crisp fried bread 
or anchovy or cheese biscuits this makes a very nice 
savoury. 

Cucumber and Tomato Sandnmch. — Slice some 
brown and white bread, stamp out an equal number 
of rounds of each, spread the brown bread with 
green mayonnaise lightly stiffened with aspic jelly, 
and lay on this a slice of tomato previously seasoned 
with oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, and cover down 
?;s usual. On the white bread spread tomato 
mayonnaise similarly stiffened, with a slice of 
pe^,soned cucumber, finish as before, and dish 
V?ese sandwiches alternately. If preferred cucumber 
cream sauce may be used instead of green mayon- 
naise. 

Eqg Sandwich, — Boil some eggs for twelve minutes, 
then leave in water tiW qjoita cold^ uow shell and 



SANDWICHES. 33 

slice them, and season them with oil, viDegar, salt, 
and pepper, letting them marinade for some time in 
this. Prepare some minced cress in the same way, 
then spread an eqnal number of slices of brown 
bread and butter with the seasoned eggs and the 
rest with the cress, press them together, trim and 
serve. 

Egg and Chutney Sandwich. — Spread some brown 
bread and butter with chutney, then strew this 
thickly with minced hard-boiled eggs, white and 
yolk, season to taste, and finish as usual. 

Cream Sandwich. — Pound to a smooth 

paste six hard-boiled eggs, six washed and boned 
anchovies, a teaspoonful of French mustard, 3oz. 
fresh butter, a tablespoonful each of oil and 
thick cream, with salt and cayenne to taste. Have 
ready some slices of bread and butter and spread 
half thickly with the e^^ cream, and cover with the 
rest, or else dust these latter with grated Parmesan 
and minced celery. 

and Herring Sandwich. — Boil some eggs 

ill hard, leave in water till cold, then shell and slice 
them, seasoning as for e^^ sandwich. Beat some 
fresh butter to a cream and work into it half its 
quantity of herring marinaded in white wine, well 
drained and pounded to a smooth paste. Spread 
the bread with this mixture, and finish off with the 
eggs as in the e^^ sandwich recipe. 

Fish Sandurich. — These can be made in a variety 
of ways, but the method is much the same in all. 
Cut thin slices of bread and butter (butter is required 
in sandwiches to ensure proper ad\ift?»\o\i\i^\r«<i<i\jLN^«i 



34 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 

bits of breaid) and spread these with any form of 
thick mayonnaise, plain, tartare, verte, tomato, Ac, 
according to the fish you use. then lay on half small 
flakes of fish, salmon, sole, lobster, &c., and thin 
slices of cucumber on the rest of the bread, now 
press these lightly together, trim and serve garnished 
with watercress. Or: pound the remains of any 
cold fish, moistening it with a little cream or 
creamed butter, and seasoning pretty highly with 
coralline pepper and a drop or two of essence of 
anchovy (mind not to overdo this). Have ready 
bread and butter and spread half with the fish 
puree, and the rest as before with mayonnaise of any 
kind, laying again on this a slice of cucumber, 
tomato, lettuce, or watercress, as you please, press 
the two slices together, and trim and finish as 
before. It is obvious that any kind of meat pounded 
may be used in the same way, while, if liked, the 
mayonnaise may be replaced by any sauce to taste, 
reduced by rapid boiling with a leaf or two of leaf 
gelatine to give it cohesion, or if liked' mayonnaise 
collee may be used. (This is made by whisking very 
gradually a gill of oil into half a pint of just liquid 
aspic as the latter is beginning to set, adding a little 
of any flavoured vinegar to taste, with a dust of 
finely minced fines herhes and a tablespoonf ul of 
cream at the l^st). 

Foie Gras Sandwich. — Butter the bread rathei 

sparsely, and lay on half the bread rather thick 

slices of plain foie gras truffe, and cover with 

the rest of the bread. If pate is used, spread it on 

tlie thinly buttered bread. 



SANDWICHES. 35 

Creorge Sandwich, — Stamp out rounds of brown or 
white bread and butter, and spread these with white 
mayonnaise {i.e., mayonnaise made with egg wliite, 
lemon juice, and cream, instead of oil, vinegar, and 
egg yolk), and cover this with shredded chicken miO 
ham or tongue, dusting this again with mimuid 
olives, then cover with the rest of the bread, and 
finish off as usual. 

Greville Sandwich, — Stamp out the bread and 
butter as in the preceding recipe, and spread tbowj 
rounds with pounded or minced game mixed with 
capers and tiny fillets of anchovy; prfiss them 
together, and then mask half with brown and half 
with white chaufroix and serve when set, garninhed 
with watercress. This decoration can manifently he 
applied to all small sandwiches, as can alMo the 
practice of brushing the upper side with juMt liquid 
aspic and dusting it with lobster coral, C(imlliiie 
pepper, minced parsley, olives, <fcc., setting these with 
a drop or two more of aspic jelly. 

Lobster Sandwich. — Prepare some red or lohnler 
butter by crushing the shell and feelers of a co(ik*.*d 
lobster with an ounce or two of butter, till you get 
it all to a fine paste, adding gradually the coral if at 
hand, with a good seasoning of salt and coralline 
pepper, and gradually 2oz. more of butter. Then 
stir this over a slow fire till it reddens and clears, 
when you rub it through a fine hair sieve into iced 
water, on tbe surface of which it hardens. Now 
skim it off, melt it again in a warm basin, and work 
into it four more ounces of fresh butter, and leave 
it in a cold hjrder till firm and 'w^\i wAov^^^. "Yvi^sa^ 



36 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 

is the French method of making heurre rouge (which 
can also be made with prawn, shrimp, or crayfish 
shells in the same way), but there is a somewhat 
unconscientious tendency with many cooks to replace 
this troublesome process by using simply coralHno 
butter, which, as far as appearance goes, betrays 
very little difference. Now chop up the flesh of the 
lobster, seasoning it to taste with salt, a few drops 
of lemon juice or chilli vinegar, mixing it with some 
mayonnaise, and spread this mixture on brown 
bread, previously spread with the red butter, and 
finish off as usual. Shrimps, prawns, or indeed any 
fish can be used thus. 

Miraheau Sandwich. — Mince lightly together haK 
a pint of picked shrimps, six or eight bearded oysters, 
five or six thinly sliced cooked truffles, and two- 
thirds of a pint of cold cooked potatoes cut into tiny 
dice, and season this all with pepper, salt, and a 
little oil and lemon juice, and leave on ice till 
wanted. Then spread some brown bread rather 
thickly with mayonnaise, and spread half with the 
above mixture, covering these slices in the usual way. 
Trim and serve garnished with mustard and cress. 
Little rolls filled with this mixture are excellent, 
whilst little boat-shaped moulds of crisp anchovy 
pastry thus filled make a delicious savoury under the 
names of Petits pains fourres a la Miraheau or 
Canots a la Miraheau. 

New York Sandwich. — Into half a pint of very 
rich mayonnaise work gradually twenty-four oysters 
bearded and minced, and seasoned with their own 
liquor, a little lemon juice, and some coralline 



SANDWICHES. 37 

pepper, Now sKce down some one-day old French 
rolls, and butter these sparingly; then spread 
with the above on half, covering down with the 
rest. 

Northern Scmdwich. — Pick the flesh from a cold 
cooked Finnon haddock, mince it, then pound it with 
one-third its bulk of fresh butter and quarter its 
bulk of anchovy paste. Stir this all over the fire, 
seasoning it to taste with salt, pepper, and minced 
parsley till blended, then leave till cold. Lightly 
toast some bread and split it, butter the inner side, 
spread with the cold haddock mixture, and finish off 
as usual. 

Olive Scmdwich. — Stone and mince the contents of 
a bottle of French olives, season with white pepper, 
pound to a smooth paste, and spread this on some 
bread and butter, covering it with more plain bread 
and butter; or spread the remaining slices with 
potted meat of any kind worked up with cream or 
creamed butter and press together. 

Pickle Sandwich, — Slice some pickles lengthways 
and spread bread and butter with them, lay over 
this thin slices of cold cooked veal or pork, and 
cover with plain bread and butter as usual. 

Pompadour Sandwich. — Bub up some nice potted 
game, foie gras, <&c., with whipped cream or creamed 
butter, season to taste, and spread on rounds of 
white bread and butter, press together, and mask 
each sandwich differently with red, white, yellow, or 
green mayonnaise aspic. 

Prince George* 8 SamdAvich. — ^Mince together finely 
any cold game with a truf^e or two, or some cooked 



38 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c, 

mushrooms, and a few dice of pS,td de foie gras, 
mixing it all with very rich and much reduced game 
or salmi sauce, and spread on sliced and buttered 
Vienna bread and finish off as usual. 

, Prince of Wales* 8 Sandwich. — Mince not too finely 
some ham, filleted anchovies, truffles and gherkins, 
seasoning them all with oil, vinegar, &c. Scoop 
the crumb from some tiny rolls, spread these 
inside with rich mayonnaise, fill with the mix- 
ture, and replace the piece cut off, pressing it 
in well. 

Princess Sandwich, — Pound together to a smooth 
paste two parts cold cooked chicken and one part 
ham or tongue with hard-boiled yolk of e^g, grated 
Parmesan, tarragon vinegar, oil, salt, and pepper, 
tasting it as you pound to get it right. Spread this 
on white bread and butter, press well together, and 
butter the top lightly, or brush it over with liquid 
aspic, and pile on the top a little caviar or minced 
olives, julienne strips of crisp celery, egg white cut 
to match, <&c. 

Sardinia Sandwich. — Wash, wipe, and fillet some 
good sardines, and season to taste with coralline 
pepper. Have ready some fingers of brown bread 
and butter, and lay a seasoned sardine on half and 
cover the other half with sliced tomato, press well 
together, and finish as usual. 

Sardine Sandwich a la Mussel, — Skin, wipe, and 
bone some sardines, pounding them all to a smooth 
paste, with a little butter, coralline pepper, and a 
few drops of lemon juice. Have ready some thin 
bread and butter, spread with this mixture, then roll 



SANDWICHES. 39 

up the sandwiches, pinching them together lightly 
in the centre to keep their shape, and serve garnished 
with picked watercress, dusted with oil, pepper, salt, 
and vinegar. 

Savoury Sandwich, — Mince together ham, tongue, 
or corned beef with fat ham, using three parts lean 
to one of fat, and pound it all to a smooth paste, 
with a teaspoonful of mustard flour, a saltspoonf ul 
of salt, and a little water dashed with Worcester 
sauce ; then work into it 2oz. or 3oz. fresh creamed 
butter, and use for spreading the sandwiches. 

Shooting Sandwich. — Toast neatly trimmed slices 
of bread on both sides, then split and butler half of 
them with plain or sayoury butter, and spread the 
rest with a stiff tartare sauce, to which tou have" 
added some French mustard {moutarde de Maille). 
Cover the buttered pieces with thin slices of meat or 
game, and press the rest of the bread on this. This 
sandwich appears in a yariety of shapes. For 
instance, if plain butter and remoulade, with shred 
celery and sliced pheasant or partridge is used, it is 
called Sandwich a la Gladstone. If cold roast duck 
and either olive mayonnaise or aspic-stiffened 
bigarade sauce is used it is called Sandwich a la 
bigarade or attx olives. Whilst, filled with grouse or 
any brown game slices and a very stiff tartare, it is 
known as Milan Sandwich, 

Spanish Sandwich, — Spread some thin slices of 
brown or Hovis bread with green butter or panah, 
sprinkle this with chopped hard-boiled egg yolk, and 
cover with thin, small fillets of cold, cooked chicken 
and tongue, cover with other slices of bread and 



40 SALADS, SANDWICHES, Ac. 

butter, pressing them well together and stai 
them out in rounds. Brush the tops over 
either just liquid aspic or liquefied butter 
sprinkle it thickly with minced parsley, c 
coralline pepper and minced white of egg, and 
garnished with seasoned watercress. 



CHAPTER III. 

HOBS DXETTBE. 

These little aeoessories to tine Bam sre* faffnilia^ v> 
all who haye trareDied mueii, amd ti^ ^ire itcnr 
still further familianse>d bj the pf>e6em £a.^ikifi <^ 
restaurant dinners, whidi is so mariKd a fesuttifv c^ 
modem English social life. Whedber, hover^r. tbej 
will become reallj acclimatised is tu:y(Aher question, for 
their raisan d^etre depends on the method ot life : 
and, speaking generaUj, the ordinanlj ont-of-^oor 
and more or less athletic life d the SL^renge Britisher 
renders any whet to the appetite (which is after all 
the origin of the French hors d'oeurre and its 
Bussian equivalent, the zakuBka) not so neoessarv as 
it may be in other countries, where climate, manners, 
&c., have combined to bring about different con- 
ditions of life. Moreover, the English affection for 
the after-dinner " savoury," so marked a feature in 
English bills of fare, renders the appearance of the 
hors d'ceuvre at the beginning of the meal some- 
what superfluous. An Englishman seldom needs an 
incitement to eat, though he found a whet and a 
dearer-of-the-palate necessary in t\i<^ ^'^^^ ^\kRs^ 



42 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &o. 

after-dinner bard drinking was the rule, and has 
kept up the tradition of the savoury, even though 
we may thankfully admit that the drinking is no 
longer so extensive or so universal. 

The zahiska differs from the hors d'oeuvre from 
the fact that it is usually served in another room 
from the dinii^g-room, various dishes being arranged 
on a side table or buffet, with the inevitable accom- 
paniment of spirits or liqueur ; whereas the hors 
d'oBUvre is served in the dining-room, being usually 
either handed round as soon as the guests are seated, 
or served in separate portions, one of which is placed 
ready for each guest when they enter. France 
acknowledges two kinds of hors d'oeuvres, the hot 
and the cold, The former was, and is, always served 
after the soup, and really forms a kind of entree, 
the difference between these two depending, according 
to M. XJrbain Dubois, on the fact that the hot hors 
d'cBuvre should always be served dry, unaccompanied 
by either sauce or garnish, for, as he observes, " A 
c^arnished and sauced hors d'oeuvre becomes an 
entree ; the name of the former shows clearly their 
inherent lightness, and a studied simplicity should 
in every case be their distinctive characteristic." 
Accordingly, in private families and on ordinary 
occasions, the hors d'oeuvre generally consists of 
daintily arranged sliced sausage, smoked ham 
(cooked or raw), sardines, anchovies, caviar, pickled 
tunnyfish, salted or smoked herring, smoked salmon 
(cooked or raw), pickled oysters, olives (stuffed or 
plain), seasoned artichoke bottoms, Ac, all care- 
fuUf and very thinly sliced, and dished in long 



HORS D*(EUYRE. 43 

boat-shaped dishes, whence the French name of 
bateaux de whatever hors d'oeuvre is served. Whether 
hors d'oeuvre of only one or of many kinds are 
served at the commencement of each meal is purely 
a matter of taste. 

Herring, whether kippered, pickled, salted, or in 
the shape of bloaters, should always be boned and 
filleted, and if very dry and highly salted or smoked, 
are improved by soaking for a little time in milk or 
milk and water. Pickled herring are often too salt 
to be eaten comfortably when lifted from their 
pickle or tin. In this case take them out a few 
days before tbey are wanted, trim them neatly, and 
soak them for five or six hours in milk and water, 
then dry them carefully on a clean cloth, arrange 
them in a piedish with a bayleaf or two, some 
peppercorns, green tarragon, capers, and minced 
onion, pour over this sufficient vinegar and water to 
cover it all thoroughly, and let them stand in this 
till wanted. To serve them, lift out the fish and 
jcut them across right through ; dish them by putting 
together the pieces neatly back into shape, and 
serve either sprinkled with a little very good fresh 
oil, or some of the marinade finely minced. This 
method is also applicable to pilchards, sardines, 
smoked sprats, &c., of course diminishing the time 
proportionately. 

Sardines, anchovies, and all fish pickled in oil, 
should always be carefully cleansed from all trace 
of the preserving oil, and are usually served boned 
and filleted, and garnished with capers, minced 
parsley, and a sprinkling of good freftk ovl. "^Vife 



U SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c, 

best way to cleanse the first two fish is to take them 
from the bottle or tin and arrange them separately 
side by side, without touching, in a dish, then pour 
over them sufiicient hot water to rinse them well, 
tilting the dish slightly to let the water run ofE at 
the bottom, carrying with it any taint of the fishy 
liquid in which they were preserved; then wipe 
carefully in a clean cloth, removing all scales, 
skin, and bone, and use, sprinkling them with 
fresh oil, but never with that contained in the bottle 
or tin. 

Smoked salmon, tunny, reindeer, or other tongue, 
sausages, &c., are always sliced very thinly, and 
served en couronne, or in a straight line, the slices 
overlapping, with a little fresh parsley round. 

Olives (stufEed or plain), cucumbers, radishes, 
fresh figs, and melons of all kinds are often abroad 
served as hors d'oeuvre. The melon is sliced down 
into neat portions, the seeds, Ac, removed, and a 
knife slipped round the slice to cut the flesh loose 
from the skin without taking the latter away. 
Sugar, salt, pepper, and ground ginger are aU served 
with it. The figs are served plain, the red-fleshed 
kind being the best for this purpose. For the 
cucumbers, choose small ones, before the seeds are 
fully formed, peel, slice them thinly, sprinkle with 
salt, let them stand a little to drain, and serve 
sprinkled with white pepper, salt, oil, vin^ar, and 
minced parsley or fennel. If individual hors 
d*oeuvre are preferred, the above can be dished in 
tiny boat- shaped cases, made with ordinary fried 
bread, cut to shape and cooked tOl biscuit-crisp 



HORS D'CEUVRE. 45 

(always set them, when finished, for a minute or two 

in the oven to dry and crisp them thoroughly) ; or in 

cases made with short, anchovy, devilled, or other 

paste, thus : Choose trimmiugs of short or puff 

paste, or prepare any of the following — Anchovy 

Paste : Rub 2oz. of fine flour with f oz. of fresh butter, 

a good saltspoonful of essence of anchovy, and, if 

liked, a drop or two of carmine (do not overdo this), 

with a dust of coralline pepper, the same of baking 

powder, and half an egg ; mix it with a teaspoonf ul 

of cold water, roll out thinly and use. — Cheese Paste : 

Take 4oz. of puff pastry trimmings, roll them out 

thinly, and dust with 2oz. of grated Parmesan 

cheese (as if it were flour) and a good dust of 

coralline pepper, rolling it out again after folding it, 

and use. A version of this paste may be made by 

using either curry powder or powdered Boinbay 

duck instead of the grated Parmesan, for those who 

like very pronounced tastes. — Devilled Paste is made 

by any of the preceding recipes, a strong flavouring 

of cayenne and a drop or two of tabasco being 

added in the mixing. Roll out either of the above 

pretty thinly, and with it line either croustade, or 

boat moulds, or tiny patty pans, pricking the paste 

well with a fork to prevent blisters, trim the edges, 

lay in each a well-buttered paper, fill up with rice, 

&c., and bake in a moderate oven till nicely 

coloured ; then remove the paper, rice, &c., 

and set the cases in the oven again to get quite 

crisp ; these can be stored in airtight tins. Failing 

these, use the little china cases or the small plated 

stewpans sold for the purpose. TVi'^i^^ \vXKXfc ^i»-^«^ 



46 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &o. 

can be filled with any of the preceding, or with 
miniature salads of capers, sliced cucumber, tomato, 
anchovy fillets, flaked, smoked, or fresh fish, shrimps, 
&c., mixed with oil and vinegar or mayonnaise to 
taste. A pretty variant of the popular aalade 
d^anchois can be made by filleting some anchovies, 
arranging two fillets crosswise in each case, putting 
little heaps of minced egg, white and yolk, parsley, 
and coralline pepper in between, seasoning it all 
with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. Or soak two 
salted herrings with roes, in milk and water as above, 
then fillet them, and rub the roes through a sieve ; 
now peel, core, and mince a sour apple, mixing this 
mince with the sieved roe. Have ready some 
buttered slices of bread, spread them with the 
mince, cover half of these with the fillets of fish, 
freed from all skin, &c., and cover with the rest of 
the prepared slices. Press well together and trim 
neatly. Or, fill any of these cases with minced 
gherkin, whole capers, minced tarragon, and either 
y/rawns or shrimps, or, if liked, lobster. Mix this all 
vith a spoonful or so of mayonnaise, pile it up, and 
fierve garnished with chopped aspic. This can be 
varied to taste. 

Besides these, small neatlv made sandwiches 
spread with bloater or any kind of paste, &c., or 
fingers of biscuit- crisp fried bread can be used in 
the same way, and, indeed, many of ihe recipes 
given amongst the savouries can be utilised for hors 
d'oeuvre, only remember M. U. Dubois's advice, and 
do not over-elaborate your hors d*oeuvre. 

A few individual recipes may \)^ ^\n^w t« ^x^lain 



HORS D'CEUVRB. 47 

their nature, but any intelligent cook can evolve 
plenty for herself. 

The first, and indeed, the only purely English 
hors d'oeuvre are oysters, carefully opened, served in 
the deep half shell, four to six for each guest, thin 
slices of delicate brown bread and butter, quartered 
lemon, and coralline pepper being handed round 
with them, or served on a plate made for the 
purpose. 

Huitres Nature. — Roll out thinly some anchovy 
paste, and dust generously with coralline pepper, or 
add a drop or two of tabasco to the paste, cut it into 
squares, prick it, and bake till crisp. When cold 
place on each a slice of peeled cucumber, the same 
of lemon (removing all pith, peel, and pips), 
and lastly a bearded oyster; season Hghtly with 
lemon juice and a tiny dust of cayenne pepper, and 
serve two or three to each guest. 

Huitres au Caviar. — Stamp out rounds of Ho vis 
bread (or use if preferred fried croutes), place on each 
a slice of tomato, then a little heap of caviar, and on 
this a bearded oyster ; season with lemon juice and 
coralline pepper and serve. 

Caviar a la Mignonne. — Stir together in a basin 
two tablespoonfuls of best salad oil, one table- 
spoonful of strained lemon juice, and the contents 
of a small pot of caviar; cut a slice off six small 
rich- coloured ripe tomatoes, and remove all the pulp 
with a spoon; season the insides of these tomatoes 
with lemon juice, salad oil, and a little coralline 
l^pper, and stand them on ice till wanted. Mean- 
while chop up the pulp, adding a.\xo\.\i'^x X.'^vsNaXi^W 



48 SAIiADS, SANDWICHES, Ac. 

needed, with a hard-boiled egg cut into dice, and 
mix this carefully with the caviar, &c., and fill up 
the tomatoes with the mixture, piling it up well in 
the centre, and laying either a shelled and seasoned 
prawn or a well washed and boned anchovy fillet, 
curled up, on the top of all ; dust with coralline 
pepper and minced parsley, and serve. 

Groutes au Caviar, — Fry some small round croutes, 
and whilst hot dust with minced chives and coralline 
pepper, then wl^pn cold pile up with caviar pre- 
viously mixed with a few drops of good oil, lemon 
juice, and coralline pepper. The large-berried 
Astrachan caviar is best for hors d'oeuvre, but as 
this must be used quite fresh, the tinned dark green 
caviar is most generally used. This occasionally 
gets dry, and in consequence a trifle tasteless. In 
this case, beat it up with enough oil to moisten it, 
season with lemon juice, coralline pepper, and a 
little very finely minced shallot, and serve as 
before. 

Anchois a V Imperials. — These are much like the 
French bateaux d^anchois. Have ready some cold 
biscuit-crisp square croutons, lay across each diagon- 
ally four anchovy fillets, sprinkle with oil, lemon 
juice, and coralline pepper, and fill the angles thus 
formed alternately with hard-boiled and minced 
yolk and white of e^gj minced scarlet chillies, and 
minced olives, or, failing these, parsley. 

Tartelettea a la Madame. — Have ready some tiny 
biscuit-crisp boat shapes of anchovy pastry, and 
pile these up with cold boiled and minced potato 
(choose new or waxy ones) , mmced anchovy, capers. 



HORS D'CEUYRB. 49 

and cucumber peas (i.e., cucumber cut to shape with 
a vegetable cutter), mixed well with mayonnaise 
sauce. 

Croutes a la Burlington. — Wash, bone, and fillet 
some anchovies, season each fillet with oil and 
vinegar, and season some slices of hard-boiled agg in 
the same way. Place one of these on a rpund of 
biscuit-crisp fried bread, the anchovy fillets rolled 
in the centre, and serve garnished with seasoned 
lettuce, choosing the small inner leaves of a nice 
cabbage lettuce. 



CHAPTEE IV. 

SAVOUEIES. 

The taste for " savouries," as the little dishes that 
nowadays end almost all well-arranged dinner menus 
are called, is by no means so novel as some may 
fancy, and has the further merit (if merit it be) of 
being " so British, quite British you know ! " It 
dates back from the old hard-drinking days, and 
represents the appetisers taken by men at the end of 
a repast to clear their palates for the due consump- 
tion of the wine which in those days was such an 
integral part of the meal. Pickled, kippered, or 
smoked herring, anchovies, " sardinias," ** kaviar," 
hotargo (the pressed roe of the Mediterranean 
mullet), &c., were as popular a couple of centuries 
ago as they are to the fashionable Englishman of 
to-day, though the latter has altered the spelling of 
their names in many cases. Grilled and devilled 
bones, anchovy toasts, and cheese toasted, stewed, 
or baked, were the contemporaries of the previously 
mentioned savouries, and enjoyed a reputation that 
has not faded even yet. Such dainty trifles form a 
£rredt addition^ and often make all the difference to 



SATOUBIESL 51 

a simple meniL As a naiter of £Kt^ a carsfol azid 
capable cook shaald be ^Me to f^^ssstt a differeat 
savouiy for erenr daj of tlie jcar wit&oas nat^rially^ 
if at aU, incieasmg the hof^ekee^ng books^ if sbe^ 
will take a little pains in eoQecdng her maneriaL 
The bones sent in weeklr br most eazefol mistT^sses 
for the benefit of the stoek-pot will dtai snpplr 
marrow enough f (h* a delicate little dish of marrow 
toast ; the last laver of an opened tin of sardines, 
too few to reappear at the breakfast table, will 
provide sardines a la diahle; the remains of last 
night's cauliflower may make a second appearance 
as chaufleur au graiin; whilst the rest of the shrimp 
sauce which accompanied the prerioos day's dorr, 
will afford material for a pretty little dish of Caisses 
a la Normandey if reheated, seasoned with some 
lemon juice and cayenne, curry powder or paste, 
and poured boiling hot into tiny caisses or canots of 
fried bread. In short, all sorts of odds and ends 
can be used up for this part of the dinner, and 
round off the menu daintily at little or no cost. 
But, of course, this is only to be accomplished bv 
the cook and the mistress who will devote thought 
and a minimum of trouble to the contents of tlioir 
larder; yet, as they are intrinsically anything but 
ex})en8ive either in cost, time, or labour, it miglit bo 
almost reckoned a disgrace to the cook who dot^s not 
produce them in variety. Anchovies and sanlim^s, 
of course, occur first to one's mind on those oooaMionH. 
So try 

Canapes d^Anchois, — Have ready soino mmi lin- 
gers of fried or toasted bre«A ^\L\i^x>xVVj \i\i^Niiii\si% 



52 SALADS, SANDWICHES, Ac. 

this latter), dust these with minced parsley and 
chives (or finely minced shallot), and lay on each a 
well-washed and boned anchovy, seasoned with 
freshly ground black pepper and a little lemon juice, 
place a morsel of butter or a little good salad oil on 
each, and set in the oven till hot. 

Orlys d*Anchois. — Wash and bone the anchovies, 
dry them, and let them marinade for an hour in a 
spoonful of salad oil, a dust of coralline pepper, and 
some minced parsley ; then lift them out, dip each 
separately in some good frying batter, and fry at 
once in hot fat for six to eight minutes till crisp and 
nicely coloured, and serve on a napkin dusted with 
coralline pepper and minced parsley. 

Canapes d^Anchois a VIndienne, — Spread either 
fried or toasted bread rather thickly with curry 
butter, place an anchovy well washed and boned on 
each, dust liberally with lemon juice and coralline 
or Nepal pepper, and serve as hot as you can make 
them. 

Canapes d'Anchois a la Biable. — Eub up sufficient 
butter to spread the requisite number of fried fingers 
with cayenne pepper, a few drops of lemon juice, and 
a drop or two of tabasco, brush the well washed 
and boned anchovies over with oil or liquefied 
butter, and broil them for a minute or so till crisp ; 
dust with coralline pepper, place one on each finger 
of bread, and serve as hot as fire and pepper can 
make them. 

Croutes d^Anchois aux Olives are piled up pyramidi- 
cally with anchovy paste, lightly mixed with stiffly 
whipped cream, seasoned with coralline pepper. 



SAYOrrRIBB. tz 

piled on the biscuit-crisp €Tr>Riift<o»icif ^ ^m <:»]jt* «?trf[^d 
or farced with an an^rluoJTj Mkift, joAkd u fsusp*^ 
crowning the little pile. 

Canapes cTAnclims aux (EmfM hare m[;uiir» ^jsr^vi/jiiM 
lightly spread with tuif:hoTT or ^enairr "buttier, a^Lid 
then garnished with mjiii/:)e»i aaikeb^xie*^ ^jh-ja^th^ *jt 
chopped ohves, and sieTed joEk umA •»im>^f ^,»f Lii^d- 
boiled eggs arranged afn'^^^m m q-^sjiinen^ j^ytiTarj:-})', 

Canapes cTAnchois a la C^Amar zi^ i^ssxa^L ro'JiA, 
or square croutons of fried hr'isA^ usTmsniph^. » :tL ;<* 
kind of trellis of wai^bed auod VowA <iL^'.}yjrY 
fillets, a tiny mould (A anehorrr ereai^iji J5i xljh *'ji:i\T^, 
of each, with sieved hard-bosled eg^ p;kd rvvir.d ;t. 
For the anchovy cream wa«h aiiid boTje tLri?^r -or fo'ir 
anchovies, and pound them with a \^r*l'\/A':^l t-zj^y 
yolk, a dessertspoonful of salad ^>il, arjd -^ 4 ;j»/. '/f 
coralline pepper. When this is all mnf/^Ah is/l i v^ it 
a tablespoonful of just lin^uid iLsyu:^ then miz it %ith 
haK a gill of stiffly whipped eream an/1 set it on ice 
till wanted, when you pile it rockily in the centre of 
the crotites. 

Biscuits d^Anchns a la Royale, — For these hare 
ready some anchoTv biscuit paste ; roll it out thinly, 
stamp it out with a small round cutter ; prick these 
rounds with a fork, and bake till crisp. When cold 
spread half of these biscuits with anchovy butter, 
cover over sandwich fashion with the rest, pressing 
them lightly together, and serve g^amished with 
parsley or watercress seasoned. These biscuits can 
be spread with any fancy butter, or puree of 
fish, flesh, or fowl to taste, only, of course, alter- 
ing the name. Pounded cheese, \u!^c\^ ^^a^^\^<^ 



54 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 

with Nepal pepper or Searcy salt, makes a capital 
filling also. 

Anchovy Straws {Failles d^Anchois), — ^Prepare some 
anchovy or cheese pastry (as preferred) according to 
the recipe, roll it out thin, cut it into narrow strips, 
lay a fillet of washed and boned anchovy on each, 
pressing or twisting it into the paste, and bake till 
crisp. Sometimes these are made of the anchovy 
pastry only, seasoned rather highly with cayenne or 
coralline pepper, when they are known as pailles 
d'anchois a la diahle; or cut thin fingers of the 
paste, spread half with anchovy paste, cover sand- 
wich fashion with the rest of the fingers, bake till 
crisp, and serve as sandwichs d*anchois. Bloater or 
kipper fillets may be used in the same way, when 
they are known as ** bloater straws," pailles a la 
Yarmouth or a VEcossaise, according to the fish. 

Tartelettes or Talmouses d*Anchois. — Line little 
patty pans or boat-shaped tins with anchovy pastrv, 
prick all over, and bake till quite crisp, then fill with 
the anchovy cream previously given. 

Biscuits d'Anchois. — Roll out some anchovy pastry, 
stamp it out in squares or rounds, prick all over, and 
bake till crisp. Spread lightly with anchovy paste, 
and pile up by means of a bag and pipe with either 
whipped cream or egg-white meringue, flavoured 
with a little essence of anchovy and cayenne ; dust 
with minced parsley, and serve. 

Biahlotins d* Anchois {Devils on Horseback), — Wash, 
bone, and fillet some anchovies, season each with 
cayenne and black pepper, with (or without) an atom 
of mustard butter, and wra.]^ eaeh ia a very thin 



SAVOURIES. 



ip-u 



slice of fat bacon, skew€9*liig ihem. irilh bi^ pins ; 
lay each on a fried crouton dusted irhli friHi^Aj 
ground black pepper and some minoed parfilej and 
chives, and bake seven or eight minntes in tb^ or^rn 
till the bacon is jost cooked, remove the pins, and 
serve very hot. (Sardines are eqnatDv go>d this 
way.) 

Ri88olette9 d^Afickois. — Boll out some trimmings of 
puff paste (or cheese pastry) very thin, and stamp it 
out in little rounds. Have ready four or five 
anchovies previously well washed in scalding water, 
dry, bone, and fillet them, and pound with loz. or 
so of butter and the hard-boiled yolks of two eggs ; 
sieve this mixture, moisten with a little good stock 
or glaze, season to taste with coralline pepper, and 
place a small teaspoonf ul of this on each round of 
paste ; wet the edges of the rounds, and fold them 
over into a crescent shape, pinching them well 
tA>gether, then fry in pl^^nty of hot fat till of a 
golden brown, drain, and serve hot dusted with 
freshly grated Parmesan cheese and a little coralline 
pepper. If you substitute a cube of Gruyere, or any 
other nice cheese seasoned with coralline pepper 
and a drop or two of chilli vinegar, for the anchovy 
mixture, and finish as before, this is known as 
rissolettes a la Gruyere, &c., according to the cheese 
used. 

Aigrettes cCAnclwis. — Wash, bone, and fillet the 
anchovies, and lay them for an hour or two in a 
spoonful or so of oil and vinegar, with a dust of 
cayenne ; then lift them out, dip in a light batter, 
and fry in hot fat till of a pretty golden tlut, dv^vvv 



56 SALADS, SANDWICHES, Ac. 

well, and serve dusted with minced parsley and 
coralline pepper. Cheese treated in the same way is 
excellent. 

Allumettes d'Anchoia. — Roll out about 4oz. of puff 
pastry trimmings and dust this with 2oz. of Bombay 
duck (previously dried in the oven for four or five 
minutes till crisp enough to powder and use when 
cold), cut into very thin strips ; have ready some 
washed and filleted anchovies and twist a strip of 
the paste round each, keeping the roll as thin as 
possible, and bake till quite crisp. 

Anchois a la Dauphine. — Line some tiny patty 
tins with anchovy pastry, prick, and bake till crisp. 
When cold fill them with anchovy cream and place 
on each a plover's egg, and garnish with tiny sprays 
of chervil. 

Anchois a la Bedford. — Pound together four 
washed and boned anchovies, one hard-boiled egg 
yolk, a small piece of butter, and a dust of cayenne. 
Pile this up en pyramide on little squares of fried 
bread, placing two or three capers on the apex. 

Anchois a la Madras. — Mix together, over the fire, 
or in a chafing dish, loz. of butter, the well- beaten 
yolks of two eggs, a teaspoonful of sherry, and 
rather more of Burgess's essence of anchovy. Lay 
into this fingers of hot and thickly buttered toast, 
and let it soak till thoroughly saturated, but not 
pappy, and serve very hot. 

Anchois aux Olives a la Madras. — Pound to a 
pTHooth paste loz. fresh butter, ^oz. of anchovy 
paste (or four washed and boned anchovies), not 
guite a teaspoonful of Madras chutney, with salt 



SAVOUBIES. 57 

and pepper to taste. Have ready some square 
biscuits made with Bombay dnck pastrj, or devil 
pastiy, as preferred, and spread these thickly with 
the mixture, smoothing them with a warm, wet knife ; 
then laj on each a small round of hard-boiled egg 
white, and place on this a turned olive farced with 
whipped cream seasoned with coralline pepper. 

Anchois en Canois a la Mayonnaise. — Line some 
little boat moulds with either puff, cheese, or 
anchovy pastry, as you please ; prick, and bake till 
crisp. Mince together five or six anchovies (washed 
and boned), one hard-boiled egg, three or four 
stoned olives, a small teaspoonful of capers, add 
enough good mayonnaise (tartare, verte, tomato, 
&.) sauce to mix it, pile up pretty high in the 
canots, and serve. 

Anchois a la Modeme. — ^Wash, split, and bone 
some good anchovies, and roll up each half, brushing 
each over with strong aspic to set it. Spread some 
squares of fried bread or anchovy biscuits with 
watercress butter, place an anchovy fillet on each, 
curling round this a prawn split in half lengthways, 
aud seasoned with oil and vinegar, with a tiny rose 
of anchovy cream, whipped cream, or creamed batter 
flavoured with anchovy and coralline pepper, on top 
of the rolled fillets. It must be remembered that 
these recipes are really m ?ans of using up scraps. 
For instance, for eight of these you need only four 
anchovies, four prawns, any scrap of aspic jelly, Ac. 
It is on utilising these sorts of scraps, individuaUv 
useless, that the success and economy of savouries 
depends. 



58 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 

» ___ 

Anchois a VEcossaise (Scotch Woodcock). — Have 

ready some squares of hot buttered toast, and spread 
these with anchovy paste, or pounded fresh ancho- 
vies, or mix essence of anchovy with the butter used 
in buttering. Make a custard with a gill of cream, 
or milk, and the yolks of two eggs, seasoned with 
coralline pepper ; pour this when thick over the 
toast, and serve very hot. 

Anchois en Caviare. — Wash, bone, and pound 
some anchovies till smooth, with dried parsley, a 
shallot, salt, lemon juice, coralline pepper, and 
enough good salad oil to make the consistency right. 
Make it up in pats, or balls, and leave on ice till 
wanted. Send hot dry toast to table with it. 

Anchois a la Busse (Gaus). — Pound to a smooth 
j)aste a shallot (or a clove of garlic, or a propor- 
tionate amount of chives), four washed and boned 
anchovies, cheese to taste, and a small piece of 
butter. Then add a teaspoonful of mustard, with 
cayenne and salt to taste. Press into a mould, and 
turn out when wanted. Serve on, or with, hot dry 
toast. 

Anchois a VIndienne (Panah), — Pound to a smooth 
paste four washed and boned anchovies (or sardines), 
with 3oz. or 4oz. of butter, a little finely minced 
parsley, a drop or two of lemon juice, and cayenne 
to taste. Mould it, set it on ice, turn out when 
wanted, and serve with hot dry toast. All these 
last three recipes require attention in the mixing, as 
they depend on individual taste for their success. 

Anchois a la Creme Pomel, — Whip up a gill of 
cream very stiffly with a Pomel (cream) cheese, and 



SAVOURIES. 59 

force this out on to an anchovy or cheese biscuit, or 
square, fried croutons; place a fillet of anchovy 
bottled in oil, with some capers on the top, and 
serve with a light dust of coralline pepper, 

Anchovy Toast — Wash, bone, and mince coarsely 
five or six anchovies, and after dissolving a lirtle 
butter in a pan lay in the minced fish with a good 
seasoning of freshly ground black pepper and a sma'l 
teaspoonfiJ of minced parsley and chives, or a little 
very finely minced shallot, and last the yolk of an 
eg^\ stir it all over the fire till nicely blended, then 
pour it very hot on to fingers of buttered toast, and 
serve at once. 

Croutes d'Anchois a la Battenberg. — Have ready 
some delicately fried rounds of bread, place on each 
one or more curled-up fillets of anchovy preserved in 
oil, then mask it all with whipped cream flavoured 
with essence of anchovy and coralline pepper. 

Eclairs cCAnchois, — Prepare some good chou paste 
and force it out with a bag and a half -inch pipe in 
little eclairs 3Jin. long ; brush these over with 
beaten e^gj and bake till nicely coloured and well 
risen, in a moderate oven. When cold slit down the 
side and fill each with whipped cream strongly 
flavoured with essence of anchovy and coralline 
pepper, and serve. These eclairs can be filled with 
any savoury cream, cheese, ham, game, &c., to taste, 
of course varying the name in each instance. 

Biscuits d*Anchois a la JDiahle. — Mince together a 
tablespoonf ul of minced ham, a dessertspoonful of 
capers, and the same of washed and boned anchovies, 
and stir it all over the fire till thick, with o\Nft-^ 



60 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &o. 

of a pint of good espagnole and a spoonful or two of 
sherry. Butter some small water biscuits thickly, 
dust them generously with pepper, black and r^ 
and broil them, then pile a spoonful of the mixture 
on each, dust with coralline pepper and freshly 
grated Parmesan cheese, and serve very hot. 

Anchois en Surprise. — Cut a round off ten or twelve 
tiny dinner rolls (the halfpenny size), and scoop 
out all the crumb. Meanwhile mix together three 
finely chopped, hard-boiled eggs, the well- washed 
and boned fillets of ten or twelve anchovies, a 
teaspoonful each of minced tarragon, chives, and 
chervil, three good spoonfuls of salad oil, and a 
liberal seasoning of coralline pepper. When this is 
all well mixed, fill the rolls with it, replace the 
pieces cut off, pressing them well home, and serve. 
If you have aspic handy, fasten on these tops with 
a little liquid aspic, brushing them well over with 
the same, and dust thickly with minced parsley and 
coralline pepper. 

Sardines a la MdUre d*hotel, — First cleanse the fish 
thus : Lift them out singly on to a dish, tip the dish 
lightly, and pour over the sardines enough hot 
water to rinse them well, letting this drain off the 
dish at the bottom ; then wipe the sardines dry, 
removing the skin as you wipe them. (All tinned 
fish is improved by this treatment.) Lay the fish on 
fingers of hot buttered toast, and leave them in the 
oven till hot. Meanwhile stir into a gill of good 
white sauce a dessertspoonful each of minced parsley 
and chives (or shallot), and let it all boil up, then 
add a spoonful of lemon juice or of chilli vinegar 



SAVOURIES. 61 

(the size of this spoon is a matter of taste), and a 
good dust of coralline pepper, pour it over the sardine 
toast, and serve very hot. 

Sardines aux Olives. — Cleanse the fish as before, 
arrange each on a fried finger crouton, seasf»ned 
with freshly ground black pepper and a little salt ; 
then vrhen very hot dust thickly vrith grated 
Parmesan cheese, and pour over each finger a little 
melted glaze in which you have stirred some minced 
olives, and serve. 

Sardines Ourried, — ^Prepare the fish as before, 
and place each on a finger of hot toast spread with 
curry butter, and serve covered with the following : 
Fry a teaspoonful each of curry powder and flour in 
oil with a finely minced shallot, and when fried 
dilute with a little stock, and cook till thick. Now 
add a seasoning of lemon juice and coralline pepper, 
pour over the fish, and serve very hot. 

Sardines Devilled, — Cleanse and bone the fish, and 
spread each with mustard seasoned with salt, 
coralline pepper, and lemon juice; let it stand for 
half an hour, then try in oil, and serve very hot and 
crisp on fried croutons dusted with cayenne and 
minced chives. 

Cleanse the fish as before, lift them on a 

well-buttered fireproof dish, strew with minced 
capers, chervil, parsley, and, if liked, chives ; set the 
dish in the oven, and at the same time crisp some 
finger croutons of fried bread in the oven; when 
both are hot, lift a sardine on to each crouton, brush 
over with warm glaze, and serve. Some cooks dust 
the fish with black, white, and red pej^^r. 



62 SALADS, SANDWICHES, «&o. 

Sardine Eggs. — Halve four hard-boiled eggs 
lengthways, remove the yolks and pound these 
with four cleansed and boned sardines, a dessert- 
spoonful of minced parsley, loz. of butter, and 
salt and pepper to taste. When quite smooth, fill 
up the e^^ whites with this mixture, rounding it 
dome-fashion with a hot wet knife, and serve 
garnished with either small cress or picked water- 
cress, seasoned with oil and vinegar. These eggs 
can be varied according to the filling. For instance, 
if the hard-boiled e^^ yolk is mixed with 2oz. or 
3oz. of maitre d'hotel butter, they are known as 
ceufs a la Benedictine; if mixed with ham butter, 
as (Bufs an jamhon ; with watercress butter, as oeufa 
a la Gasconne; with shrimp paste, as ceufs a la 
Normande, and so on. In short any nice farce or 
mince to taste can be served in this way. 

Sardines en Fritot. — ^Cleanse and dry the fish well, 
roll lightly in flour, or dip them in good frying 
batter as you choose, and fry till perfectly crisp. 
Drain and serve very hot on fingers of fried bread 
dusted with grated Parmesan and coralline pepper. 

Sardine Omelet — Make a savoury omelet in the 
usual way, frying it, however, in two tablespoonf uls 
of oil instead of butter, and when this is ready for 
dishing lay in the sardine filling, season this with a 
little lemon juice, or chilli vinegar, and dish at 
once. For the filling (for a three or four egg omelet) 
wash and bone two or three sardines, cut them 
into half inch lengths and dust lightly with coral- 
line pepper, and if liked a little grated Parmesan 
cheese* 



SATOTBIES. 6 

Sardines eu Pmpitkiif&L. — Otesatsi- liif £^ h^ icir 
devilled sardines, xad Skt 45h£h nxi & iifi£ri-{^}*€«d 
piece of white pa]i«r lj»ierk-<^hr TpjaQ cQi&5 , vrii 
a teaspoonful c^ dTTxielllss ffimyg- funi^iTi'raiLf.. 
parsley, chires, ie- ism^ici^ aski iMi in teirt,rT c^ 
oil), and a little ttL'id ai^ ijor^ iDrcnrn s&TiCir 
(espagnole for dioioe : tkM ^ tfee -e^^et <^ The 
paper to keep in the saacie:. itt^ askl sm h in iltr 
oven till the p&p^s poff out. Serre venr iK*t. 

Sardines. Petiies Bf^wcktKsf rfe. — ^Hmire readT t*c*iDr- 
tinj cases either of fned Ix^ead. poff. dbeiesie, or 
anchovy pastry, and fill with the f<^lowing : PoTind 
two or three cleansed sardines with piepper. salt, a 
few drops of chilli vinegar, and enough ob^e^e^E 
to bring it to the consisteney of battered crab, then 
stir into this some lightly minced oysters, and ^erve 
garnished with sieved hard-boiled yolk of e^ and 
coralline pepper. Another version of Uiis, known 
as houchees de sardines en caviar j is made by boning, 
chopping, and pounding some sardines with dried 
parsley, a tiny dove of shallot, cayenne, salt, lemor 
juice, and a little salad oiL Fill some oval crou- 
stades with this mixture, and serve garnished with 
hard-boiled and sieved egg yolk and coralline peppor. 
It is not easy to give the proportions for this, as tbo 
mixture must be worked up to the taste of caviar, 
to which it bears a most marked resemblanoo. 
Anchovies may be used if preferred. 

Sardines en Tartines. — Cleanse and bono five or 
six sardines and pound them with a washed, bonod, 
and minced anchovy, loz. of butter, a dust each of 
cayenne, mace, and salt, and a dxo^ ot \t^^ ^1 \v>\:c^<;s<ql 



64 SALADS, SANDWICHES, Ac. 

juice; when quite smootli spread the mixture on 
very thin brown bread and butter, roll up each slice 
after trimming it neatly, pinch it lightly together 
to keep it in shape, and serve with a garnish of 
seasoned watercress. 

Sardine Toast — Stir together over the fire four 
cleansed and minced sardines, two e^g yolks, loz. of 
butter, a dessertspoonful each of Worcester sauce 
and essence of anchovy, with a spoonful or two of 
milk, season to taste with cayenne, and as soon as 
it is all well blended pour it on to strips of hot 
buttered toast and serve very hot. This requires 
attention, for if allowed to overcook it will curdle 
and toughen. Like all forms of buttered eggs (of 
which this is one), it is better to dish it a little 
under, rather than overdone, as the eggs cook after 
leaving the fire, 

Croutes de Sardines a la crhme. — Cleanse three or 
four sardines from skin and bone, and pound them 
with just enough fresh butter to produce a smooth 
paste ; then work this with a gill of stiffly whipped 
cream rather highly seasoned with cayenne, minced 
parsley, and lemon juice, and pile this on little 
rounds of biscuit-crisp fried bread, or use it to fill 
tiny cornets of anchovy pastry. 

Sardines a la Souhise. — Prepare a rich and rather 
thick Soubise sauce to which you add a full dessert- 
spoonful of freshly grated Parmesan cheese and a 
dust of cayenne for each half pint of sauce ; spread 
some fingers of fried bread or buttered toast with 
this, then lay on each a cleansed and boned sardine, 
cover with more sauce, duBt mth. ^^t^d cko^sie and 



SAVOURIES. 66 

pepper, and set it for five or six minutes in a quick 
oven, and serve very hot. If preferred, tomato 
sauce mixed with cheese may be used instead of the 
Soubise, but in this case it will be Sardines a la 
Napolitaine. Anchovies also are excellent done by 
either of these recipes. 

" Angels on Horseback** — ^Beard as many oysters 
as you need, roll each in a little and very thin slice 
of fat bacon, securing this in position with a large 
pin ; fry delicately till the bacon is just done and no 
more, or the oyster will be hard. Remove the piny, 
set each roll on a fried crouton previously dusted 
with coralline pepper, lemon juice, minced parsley, 
and chives if liked, and serve at once. Smoked 
cooked haddock, flaked, and seasoned with a little 
butter, pepper, and minced parsley, is excellent thus ; 
or, indeed, most flaked fish or tiny fillets of kippers 
or bloater can be served thus, as can also sliced poultry 
livers, but these last naturally need longer cooking. 

Oysters devilled, — Lay as many oysters as you need 
in a piedish, and pour over them liquefied butter, 
highly seasoned with cayenne (or a few drops of 
Tabasco) and lemon juice, and let them marinade 
for ten or fifteen minutes, turning them now and 
again. Then roll each in bread-crumbs seasoned 
with cayenne or coralline pepper as you please, and 
freshly ground black pepper ; brush them over with 
beaten egg, again roll in the seasoned bread-crumbs, 
and fry in half lard, half butter, and serve as hot as 
possible. 

Oyster Fritters. — Have ready some good frying 
batter lightly seasoned with coralline ^^^y^ dx<^^ 



66 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 

an oyster into a dessertspoon, fill this with the 
batter, slide the whole gently into hot fat, and 
frj till well and evenly coloured, repeating the 
process till all the oysters are used. Drain well, and 
serve dusted with coralline pepper, with brown bread 
and butter and cut lemon handed round. 

Oyster Profiteroles with Caviar. — Have ready some 
very fresh and small brioche rolls or tiny choux, 
make an incision in the side of each, put in some 
good fresh Astrakan caviar (the grey-green, large- 
seeded kind is best), seasoned with lemon juice and a 
very little salad oil ; next put in a bearded oyster, then 
more caviar, press the roll well together, and serve. 

Oyster Rissolettes. — Beard the oysters and boil the 
beards in the oyster liquor with half a gill of white 
stock and the same of single cream or new milk till 
strongly flavoured, then strain this on to 2oz. of 
white roux (or an ounce of butter and floui 
smoothly blended over the fire) and allow it all tc 
cook together till very thick. Stir into this tht 
oysters minced, with one-third their bulk of minced 
mushrooms, and turn out the mixture to cool. RoL 
out some puff or anchovy pastry very thinly, and 
stamp from it some little rounds with a fluted two- 
inch cutter, place a spoonful of the mince on each, 
wet the edges of the paste, fold the latter over, 
crescent shape, pinch the edges well together, brush 
over with beaten egg, and bake on a buttered papei 
in a quick oven. These may, if preferred, be fried 
and served with fried parsley. 

Oyster Roulades. — Cut some thin small slices of 
streaky bacon, bat it out with a wet knife, spread it 



SATOUEIES. rr 

pretty tbickfy witli iht maxiSb ^wok in '^tt j/r*frjrj\A 
recipe, roll each up d.gair-£u2ik«LL, lut^tfyax^ i^ r'juaxiifA 
neat and small, then dip tbem lari^ in l^iSiS^iL ^'^ 
and bread-crumbs, fxj in j^asctw uf Lyi Ik^ £iud j»^!r»^ 
garnished with sesLB(msd wuiats^fsm^ 

Oyster BlaucautM^. — 'Prepaart k Ihauimaox^ isL iii*t 
usnal wajy onlj mdixg ioth msi^thd gf irjigsiz io*^ 
adding the ojster liquor. iMff^jnOtt h, ib^iud iki.:v^' 
natelj with cariar and io}if£t«r {;craJ (cfl' tyjn,Z::^tb 
pepper), and pour in a laj-er <Ji li»*: Mcryisj 'LuLi*> 
mange, then a lajer of fre*ii beawfei -ca*::*^?!, 
sprinkling these lightlj with *amnr ulA a "^-xr^ 
lemon juice, then more biaiiinrair^g*:, acid bo coi^ lIH 
the mould is fall, finUlnTTii^ whh llje bWn^fiAJr.^e:, 
Set it on ice till wanted, then tarn <fynt and iie^7T<£; 
garnished with chopped aspk aztd (A-nsar, 

Oysters, ScaJUoptd. — Stiaia fM the liqaor fToia 
the oysters and add this, with the beards, to a? 
much rich white sance a« jon hare ojster liquor 
allow this to cook together till nicelj flaToured will 
the ojster beards, then strain these ofF, re-boil th£ 
sauce, laj in the ojsters, and just simmer them foi 
a minute or two. Now laj them in well-buttered 
silver or china shells or well-washed scallop shells, 
then cover lightlj with freshlj grated white crumbs, 
season with freshlj ground black pepper, salt, and 
minced parslej, pour a little liquefied butter over 
each, and brown either before the fire or with a red 
hot salamander or shovel. Scallops, shrimps, prawns, 
or indeed anj flaked cooked fish is good treated thus. 

A simpler waj is this : Open carefuUj 

eighteen or twentj-four nati^ft o^«X«t^> ^^ '^is^sso^ 



68 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &o. 

one scald in their own liquor, then well rinse in the 
same and beard neatly. Have ready some weU- 
buttered scallop shells, dust well with fresh bread- 
crumbs, minced parsley (or chives), and a dust of 
pepper and salt, lay in the oysters halved, strew 
these with the crumbs, &c., and fill up the shells in 
layers with the oysters and the crumbs, finishing 
with the latter, strain a little of the oyster liquor 
into each shell, put a morsel of butter on each, and 
bake twelve to fifteen minutes till nicely browned. 

Oysters with Tomatoes. — Remove the seeds and 
core from some nice ripe tomatoes, seasoning them 
with pepper, salt, finely minced chives, and parsley. 
Beard some oysters, saving the liquor ; season some 
freshly made white crumbs with coralline pepper, 
salt, and a little minced parsley. Now fill up the 
tomatoes with alternate layers of bread-crumbs and 
oysters, moistening each with the oyster liquor, pile 
it all up, finishing with the crumbs, place some 
morsels of butter on each, and bake for ten minutes 
or so in a moderate oven, covered with a buttered 
paper. 

Oyster Toast. — Chop coarsely ten or twelve oysters 
with one or two washed and boned anchovies (or 
anchovy paste or essence may be used), add to 
these one or two spoonfuls of cream, or the yolk of 
an egg, with a grain of cayenne, a squeeze of lemon 
juice, and a spoonful of white sauce (rather thick), 
and let it just not come to the boil ; then pour it on 
to hot buttered toast, with a dust of minced parsley 
and coralline popper, and serve very hot. Good 
canned ojatera answer for this. 



SAYOURIES. 69 

Oysters en Beignets. — Slice some fat bacon very 
thinly, and with a sharp cutter stamp out small 
rounds the size of a crown piece. Season a bearded 
oyster with coralline pepper and lemon juice, and 
place it between two rounds of bacon, pressing 
these well together; now dip these rounds into 
frying batter and fry in plenty of hot fat till of a 
golden brown, then drain, place each on a small 
round fried crouton, and serve hot, dusted with 
minced parsley. 

Oysters a la Casanova. — Beard some good oysters, 
and stew the beards in a little seasoned milk till 
their flavour is extracted, then strain this to some 
Casanova sauce and leave it till cold. Shred some 
celery into Julienne strips, leaving these in cold 
acidulated water to crisp, then drain well, stir it 
with the bearded oysters into the sauce, and serve 
either in china or paper cases or in small tartlets of 
anchovy pastry, as preferred. For the Casanova 
sauce crush the hard-boiled yolk of an egg in a 
basin previously rubbed across once or twice with 
fresh cut garlic, mix in a pinch each of white pepper 
and salt, a mustards poonful each of French and 
English mustard, and a tiny dust of coralline pepper, 
then stir to it the yolk of a day-old egg (absolutely 
new-laid eggs are not so good as older ones for 
sauce making) and stir it well with a very clean 
wooden spoon. Now work into it, a teaspoonful 
at a time, enough thick cream to get it all to a 
butter-like consistency, then add to it very gradu- 
ally about one and a half teaspoonfuls of strained 
lemon juice; when this sauce is o^uite ^hvtA ^v^<L 



70 SALADS, SANDWICHES, Ac. 

thick, stir to it a truffle and the hard-boiled egg 
white, both cut into Julienne strips, and use. If jou 
stir cubes of foie gras, flakes of salmon or lobster, &c,, 
into this sauce and serve in tiny pastry (either puff, 
cheese, or anchovy) cases, the dish is known as ccteso- 
lettes defoie gras (&c.) a la Casanova, 

8avov/ry Cod's Roe, — ^If smoked roe is used it must 
be steeped for a little to soften it, then sliced, 
and fried lightly in a little butter; serve on 
croutons of fried bread seasoned with minced parsley, 
chives, and coralline pepper. It is also good if, 
after lightly frying, it is pounded, with freshly 
ground black and cayenne pepper, and sufficient 
butter to make it all a nice smooth paste. If 
pressed into pots and covered with melted butter to 
keep it airtight, this will keep for some time, and is 
excellent as a stand-by or as a foundation for other 
savouries ; as it can be served spread on hot toast 
with a seasoning of lemon juice, cayenne, and 
minced parsley, or beaten up with stiffly whipped 
cream (cold) and forced out on to square or round 
croutes ; or it may be broken up and heated in a 
rich white (and thick) sauce and used as a filling for 
an omelette fourree. If fresh roe is used wash it well, 
then put it into a pint of boiling water seasoned 
with a tablespoonf ul of vinegar, and a pinch each of 
salt and pepper. Let it boil for fifteen minutes, 
then serve hot with hollandaise or tomato sauce, or 
else leave it till cold, then slice and fry it and serve 
it like the smoked roe, either plain, or with a rose 
of anchovy butter, seasoned caviar, or horseradish 
cream on each 



SAYOURIES. 71 

Savoury Herring Boes, — ^Take six good soft (fresli) 
herring roes, well wash them, and lay them in a pan 
with loz. of butter and a little salt and pepper, and 
cook them for six or eight minutes under a buttered 
paper ; then arrange on fingers of buttered toast or 
finger croiitons, season with a drop or two of lemon 
juice, coralline pepper, and a drop of essence of 
anchovy, and set in the oven till quite hot. Tinned 
herring roes may be used in the same way, but 
naturally do not require the first cooking. 

Laitances au Gratin, — Cook some soft roes as 
above, have ready some little paper cases previously 
oiled and dried, put a layer of d*Uxelle mixture in 
Bach, then a herring roe, either straight or curled, 
put a spoonful of rich espagnole (or tomato) sauce 
into each case, dust with bread-crumbs, and set in the 
oven till nicely browned. A plainer method of doing 
this is to lay a cooked roe in each case, season with 
pepper and salt, grated bread, and minced parsley, 
with a morsel of butter on each, and bake till the 
crumbs are browned ; then serve with a tiny pat of 
maitre d*h6tel butter on each. This is known as 
laitances gratines a la maitre d'hotel. 

Laitances en Papillotes, — Oil some heart-shaped 
pieces of paper, lay a little d'Uxelle mixture on each, 
with a spoonful of rather thick tomato sauce, and on 
this a well washed but uncooked roe, fold the paper, 
pinching the edges well together, and bake or broil 
bill the paper puffs out. 

Laitances a la Diahle. — Season some well-washed 
roes with salt, lemon juice, cayenne, and if Uked a 
drop or two of Tabasco, and cook till nearly cris^ Iil 



72 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &o. 

a little butter ; then serve at once on very hot finger 
croiitons, well dusted with cayenne and coralline 
pepper, Tabasco, or Worcester sauce, and a little 
minced chives and parsley, and serve very hot. 

Laitances a la Sefton, — Cook some herring roes as 
above, and sieve them whilst hot with washed and 
boned anchovies (using one of these for four or five 
roes), then mix lightly into this purine a finely 
mincod gherkin and some stiffly whipped cream, and 
pile this up en pyramide on a biscuit-crisp croAton, 
and serve dusted with lobster coral or coralline 
pepper, with a garnish of seasoned watercress. 
Where economy, and a small family, have to be 
considered, the roes should be saved from the fish 
sent for table, and either cooked separately or 
removed just as the cooked fish is being sent to 
table. Either soft or hard roes may be used, but 
the former are most delicate. 

Devilled Boe and Mackerel Bonea, — ^When broiled 
mackerel is served for dinner, remove the soft roe and 
the spine after cooking, cut the latter into two-inch 
lengths, dip in liquefied butter, season thickly with 
salt, freshly ground black pepper, and devil paste, 
strew with fine bread-crumbs, and broil till crisp, 
then serve on buttered toast with a piece of the hot 
roe seasoned with pepper and lemon juice on each. 
Mind it is as hot as fire and pepper can make it. 

Bloater Boe Toast, — Rub up together loz. of 
butter, one tablespoonful of anchovy paste, cayenne, 
and a little lemon juice, spread this thickly on hot 
buttered toast, and lay on each half a cooked and 
rerj hot soft bloater roe, and serve. Another 



SAVOimiES. 73 

version of this is made by broiling two soft-roed 
bloaters, then when cooked lift out the roes, keep 
them hot, and pound the fish, after boning it, with 
one egg, loz. of butter, and salt and cayenne to 
taste. Pile this on finger crouton^*, lay a piece of 
the roe on each, dust with pepper and minced 
parsley and a morsel of butter (or use a tiny pat of 
maitre d'hotel butter), and set it in the oven till 
quite hot. 

Laitances a la Madras. — Cut some thin slices of 
fat bacon, spread these with chutney and minced 
capers, and lay on each a piece of well-washed 
bloater roe, seasoned with pepper and lemon juice, 
skewer lightly, and fry or broil and serve very hot 
on fried croutons. Chicken livers cooked thus, and 
known as foie de volaille a la diahle, are excellent. 

Laitances aux Huitres. — Prepare some croutes 
'^reuses (see chapter on "Garnishes"), and lay in 
each a cooked, soft, herring roe, and on this two or 
three bearded oysters, seasoned with lemon juice and 
pepper, sprinkle with a little liquefied butter, and 
set in the oven till very hot. 

Petites Oaisses a la SL James. — Have ready some 
little cheese pastry-lined cases. Clean and blanch four 
sets of herring or mackerel roes, and cut them into 
dice. Have ready a gill of rich white sauce strongly 
flavoured with grated Parmesan cheese, and stir into 
this the herring roes and half their bulk of Gruyere, 
also cut into dice, with a small teaspoonf ul each of 
French and English mustard, and stir it all over the 
fire till hot; then fill the cases with this, cover 
quickly with a meringue of three or four e^^ -vhi-tft."?. 



74 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &o. 

wliipped stiffly with coralline pepper, and serve at 
ouce, very hot. 

Laitances aux-Cepea. — Bnisli some hard bloater 
roes with butter, and grill before a clear fire, then 
mince them, and season with salt, lemon juice, and 
cayenne, and spread this thickly on round croutons, 
then lay on each a round mushroom fried in butter, 
and serve very hot. (Broiled or fried mushrooms 
also go excellently well with soft fresh herring roes.) 
If a little of this herring roe, minced and rolled in 
thin slices of fat bacon, is dipped in batter and fried, 
it is known, served on croutons, as Laitances en 
Kromeskis. 

Smoked Haddock Toast. — Flake very finely half a 
cooked Finnon haddock (one stewed in milk for 
choice). Meantime melt loz. of butter with a 
full teaspoonful of flour, and the same of minced 
chives (or a very finely minced shallot) and of 
parsley, and stir it all over the fire till quite hot (but 
not browned), then add the flaked fish ; meanwhile 
beat up one or two eggs in half a pint of milk 
(preferably that in which the haddock was cooked), 
season to taste with black, red, or white pepper, and 
pour it to the fish, stirring it all over the fire till 
thickened and well blended, when you pour it on to 
croutons of fried brown bread, and serve very hot, 
dusted with coralline pepper and minced parsley. 

Or : Flake the fish finely, and for each table- 
spoonful allow a well-washed fillet of anchovy and a 
tiny piece of butter, and pound it all till smooth, 
seasoning it with a dust of pepper. Now stir to it a 
^ill of any nice white sauce, allow it to get thoroughly 



SAVOURIES. 76 

hot without actually boiling, then stir in the yolk of 
an egg or a tablespoonful of cream, and serve very 
hot on fingers of buttered toast lightly dusted with 
coralline pepper. 

Or : Flake the fish as before, and for this quantity 
allow loz. each of butter and of grated cheewo, 
moistening it with an egg yolk and a tablespoonful 
of either white sauce or thick cream, and when 
thoroughly hot season to taste and pour into some 
croiltes creuses ; cover each with the stiffly whii)[>(;d 
white of the egg by means of a i>ipe and bag, and 
set in the oven till crisp and lightly browned. A 
few drops of essence of anchovy are an improve- 
ment. If this is served in croutes creueee or crou- 
stadeSy it is known as Croutes de merluche a la 
Florence, 

'Ballettes de Merluche (Savoury Haddock Balls). — 
Flake and pound half a cooked haddock, and h! ir it 
over the fire with loz. of butter, a good <I;ikIi of 
coralline pepper and a teaspoonful of min<M*<J |»!irHlry 
or chives, and enough thick cream or good wliil4i Kiiuce 
to bring it to the consistency of rissole forcemeat ; 
then turn it out and leave till cold. It can then be 
divided, rolled into balls in your floured hands, 
egged, crumbed, and fried a golden brown, then well 
drained, and serve very hot, dusted with coralline 
pepper and garnished with fried parsley. If pre- 
ferred some cheese or anchovy pastry may be rolled 
out very thinly, rounds stamped out of it, and a 
spoonful of the mixture placed on each, when they are 
doubled over in a crescent shape, egged and crumbed, 
or rolled in broken up vermiceUi, fried, draiaa^^^^A 



76 SALADS, SANDWICHES, Ac. 

served as before. It may be remarked that frieA 
parsley is rather a difficulty to untrained eooks. 
The method is this: Bring the fat so nearly to the 
boil that a slight blue vapour is rising and the fat is 
perfectly still, then turn out the gas (if you are 
using a gas stove), or draw the pan to the side, and 
throw in the well-picked and dried parsley and let it 
fry till it has utterly ceased to "sizzle," when it 
must be at once lifted out and will be found quite 
crisp and powdery, and of a beautiful green. 

Croiites a la Juhile, — Free the flesh of a nice fresh 
dried haddock from all skin and bone, and sieve it. 
Now mix to it with a wooden spoon 4oz. of fresh 
butter (slightly warmed) for each Jib. of fish. Put 
this puree into a bag with a plain pipe, and force a 
portion of fish on to as many rounds of fried bread as 
you require; then lay on each a bearded oyster 
seasoned with coralline pepper and lemon juice, 
mask this well over with more sieved haddock, 
smooth it into cone-shapes with a hot, wet knife, 
and bake for ten minutes in a moderate oven, 
covered with a buttered paper. (It may be remem- 
l)ored that lobstt^r or crab are equally good cooked 
according to any of the preceding haddock recipes, 
though for most tastes a washed and filleted 
anchovy should replace the oyster in the last one.) 
If the above purde is seasoned with cayenne and 
lemon juice and piled on hot buttered toast with a 
garnish of sieved hard-boiled egg yolk, the white 
boinji; cut into Julienne strips and piled round it, it 
is called on menus Croutes de merluche d la Marjorie. 
Plaked fish or haddock, pounded and seasoned as 



SAVOURIES. 77 

before, is often dipped in batter, fried, drained, 
dusted with pepper and minced parsley, and served 
as heignet de merluche, &c. If tbese fritters are 
served with a good tomato sauce and a garnish of 
fried bacon, they make an excellent breakfast or 
lunch dish. 

Haddock souffle. — Pick the flesh from a small, 
boiled Finnon haddock (or half a large one will do), 
pound it with loz. of butter, and, after sieving it, 
mix into it a good dash of cayenne and the yolks of 
two or three eggs. Fifteen minutes before the 
souffle is wanted stir in lightly the stiffly whipped 
whites of the eggs, pour the mixture into a papered 
souffle dish (or seven or eight small ones), and bake 
from twenty to twenty-five minutes for the large, 
and ten to twelve minutes for the small souffles. 

Homard a la Tartare. — Flake some crisply fried 
and well drained crontes creuses and place in each a 
little mustard and cress, and pile on this some 
flaked lobster (crab, salmon, shrimps, or even 
kippers can all be used thus), and just as they are to 
be served mask them with rich mayonnaise to which 
you have added one or two chopped pickled gherkins 
and sufficient French mustard to flavour it well. 
Serve at once (as mayonnaise becomes rank if 
exposed too long to the air) with, if liked, two long 
shreds of red chilli skin crossed, with a caper at the 
crossing, on each. 

Darioles de Homard en aspic. — Cut a medium 
lobster into dice; beat the cream from the inside 
into some rich m;tyonnaise, then stir in the minced 
lobster and about loz. of mustard and creaa. L\\iq 



78 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &o. 

some dariole moulds with aspic, and fill tHese with 
the mixture, rapping each smartly on the table to 
set the filling, cover with a little just liquid aspic 
and leave till set. Have ready some small square 
paper cases, put a slice of seasoned tomato in each, 
with a little salad mixed with mayonnaise, then turn 
out the moulds, set one in each case, add a little 
salad and chopped aspic all round, then at alternate 
comers set a quarter of a plover's egg, garnishing 
the opposite comers with a thick strip of truffle. 
(Crab is delicious thus.) 

Comets de Homard a la Greme. — Butter some 
comet tins,' and roll out some anchovy or cheese 
pastry very thinly, stamp it out in rounds 3jin. to 
4in. in diameter, prick these all over with a fork, 
and line the tins lightly with these rounds, slipping 
a second tin into the first, over the paste, to keep 
the latter in position, and bake in a moderate oven 
for twenty-five to thirty minutes till crisp; then lift 
them out and leave tiU cold. Have ready some 
lobster prepared as for the darioles, only omitting 
the mustard and cress, and mix with one and a half 
gills of stiffly whipped cream seasoned with a little 
coralline pepper ; fill the comets with this mixture 
by means of a bag and pipe, placing a turned olive 
farced with an anchovy fillet in the mouth of each. 
Crab, shrimps, sardines, &c., are all excellent served 
thus. 

Iced Lobster Souffle,— Flake down a nice lobster, 
and let it marinade for an hour or so in oil, vinegar, 
salt, and pepper, and mix the cream from the body 
with a rich tomato mayonnaise. K«i^e ready some 



SAVOURIES. 79 

stiflflj whipped aspic jelly and put a layer of this 
into a papered souffle case, cover this with some of 
the flaked lobster, then some of the cream, &c., then 
more whipped aspic, continuing the layers till the 
dish is full, finishing with the aspic. Dust with 
minced parsley, and leave it in the ice cave, or on 
ice, till ice-cold. Crab, salmon, cold chicken, or 
game, Ac, are all excellent thus. 

Curried Lobster Iced, — Put into a basin (pre- 
viously rubbed with a freshly cut clove of garlic) 
half a pint of good mayonnaise, a teaspoonful of 
minced chives or very finely chopped, shallot, a small 
dessertspoonful of good curry powder, a saltspoonful 
of mustard flour, a dust of cayenne, and a good 
breakfastcupful of finely flaked lobster (or crab, or 
shrimps, &c.), and set it in the charged ice cave for 
two and a half hours ; now half fill some china cases 
with this mixture, covering them up en pyramide 
with cold boiled rice carefully cooked to get every 
grain separate ; garnish with chopped red and white 
chillies or minced parsley and coralline pepper, and 
serve in a glass dish surrounded with crushed ice. 

Lobster a la Remoulade. — Break the shell, open 
the back, removing all the inside, and put all the 
cream or soft part into a basin with a full tea- 
spoonful of mustard, a spoonful each of minced 
parsley and chives (or very finely minced shallot), 
salt, black and red pepper, the coral, and sufficient 
oil and vinegar to moisten it all well. Halve the 
body of the lobster, remove the shell from the claws, 
and serve garnished with seasoned watercress, the 
above mixture being handed round in a boat. 



80 SALADS, SANDWICHES, Ao. 

Lobster in ike 8hell. — Divide the lobster without 
bieaking the shell, remove the soft part and the 
flesh, and clean the shell well. Now stir together 
over the fire two tablespoonfuls of velout<5, a pat of 
butter, salt, and cayenne pepper, and when quite hot 
add to it the lolster mince 1 and the cream, stir it 
for a minute, then pour this mixture into the shell, 
smooth it with a hot knife, strew it with brown 
bread-crumbs, baste it with liquefied butter, make it 
verv hot, and brown with a salamander or a red-hot 
shovel. 

Homard a la Due de York. — Put into a pan four 
ripe sliced tomatoes, two minced shallots, two full 
tablespoonfuls of espagnole sauce, loz. glaze, a 
tablespoonful of Lea and Perrin*s Worcester sauce, 
a teaspoonful of chutney (minced), rather more than 
a full pint of good fish stock, a teaspoonful of curry 
powder, and the juice of a lemon. Boil this all 
together for twenty minutes, then add ^oz. of Mrs. 
A. B. Marshall* s leaf gelatine, and when this is 
thoroughly dissolved rub the contents of the pan 
through a sieve; when this pur^e is cool add to 
it the meat of a freshly cooked lobster cut into dice, 
together with a teaspoonful of minced parsley, pile 
up some little cups or china cases with the mixture, 
forcing out a little rose of whipped cream seasoned 
with coralline pepper on the top of each by means of 
a bag and rose pipe. Set on ice or in the ice cave 
till thoroughly cold. 

Devilled Lobster Ices. — Mince and pound 8oz. of 
cooked lobster with a dessertspoonful of warm glaze, 
a teaspoonful of curry powder, one and a half table- 



SAVOURIES. 81 

spoonfuls of Yorkshire relish, or any nice sauce 
(good tomato ketchup is excellent), the hard-boiled 
yolks of three eggs, and four washed and boned 
anchovies; then rub this all through the sieve, mix 
with it haK a pint of strong veal stock (mutton bone 
jelly answers also) in which you have dissolved 
about a Joz. of best leaf gelatine, and lastly mix in 
lightly and thoroughly a third of a pint of stiffly 
whipped cream. Have ready some small bombe 
moulds previously lined with rather stiff aspic 
jelly, fill up the moulds with the lobster mixture, 
and place them in the charged ice cave for one or 
more hours; then turn out and serve garnished with 
seasoned watercress. Chicken or game can, if liked, 
be used instead of the lobster, but then use chicken 
stock, or stock made from the game bones. Both 
these last recipes are adaptations from Mrs. A. B. 
Marshall. 

Crab Grouatades, — Pick the flesh of a nice crab 
from the sheU, and poimd it with salt, red and 
freshly ground black pepper, a few bread-crumbs, and 
a little butter. Now put it into a delicately clean 
pan with a little meat gravy (not sauce), a spoon- 
ful or two of cream, and one spoonful of sherry. 
When thoroughly hot (it must not actually boil), 
pour it either into a single croustade, or in several 
small ones as you please. (Needless to say lobster 
is good thus.) 

Grab in tJie Shell. — Pick the flesh from a good 
large crab, and pound it with the soft creamy part 
inside, seasoning it, as you pound it, with (red and 
black) pepper, salt, half a teaspoonful of made 



82 SALADS, SANDWICHES, Ac. 

mustard, a dash of cayenne, a dessertspoonful 
of best vinegar, a small teacupful of pounded 
" crackers " (hard biscuits) or dried and sifted 
crumbs, and loz. of fresh butter, or two or three 
spoonfuls of thick cream ; stir this all over the fire 
till perfectly hot, when you pour the mixture into 
the well-washed and dried shells, strew the top with 
bread-crumbs, a very little minced parsley, and some 
morsels of butter, and set it in the oven, or in front 
of the fire to brown. 

Dressed Crab. — ^Prepare some rich mayonnaise, 
flavouring this with shallot and chilli vinegar, with 
a rather stronger seasoning of cayenne than usual, 
and making it pretty thick. Now mix into it the 
sieved creamy part of the crab, and then the white 
flesh cut into dice. Turn this mixture into the well- 
washed shell, and strew the top in lines with sieved 
and hard-boiled yolk and white of e^g, and finely 
minced parsley, placing it when ready in the ice 
cave till perfectly cold. Serve garnished with the 
crab claws, and hand dry toast and butter, or brown 
bread and butter with it. The mayonnaise should 
be rather hotter than when served alone, or, if pre- 
ferred, tomato mayonnaise or sauce tartare may be 
used with the crab. 

Iced Crah SoufflS, — Shred the flesh of one or more 
cooked crabs finely with two silver forks, then stir 
into it the creamy part of the inside, a good 
seasoning of coralline pepper, and, if liked, a dust of 
cayenne, and, lastly a full gill of rich tomato 
mayonnaise (for each fair-sized crab) ; now whip 
some just melted aspic to a very stiff froth, put a 



SAVOURIES. S^: 

layer of this at the bottom of a papered souffle 
mould, put aside an equal quantity of the whipfied 
aspic, and mix the rest with the prepared crab, fill 
up the mould with this, and finally pile the rest of 
the aspic on the top and set it all on ice or in the 
charged ice cave till thoroughly frozen. 

These may give some idea of the variety of 
savouries that may be prepared from ftsh, though 
naturally the list is more than imperfect. It is well 
to remember that home-potted fish (or, indeed, many 
other things) adds immensely to the number of 
savouries that may be prepared at little, if any, cost. 
For instance, pick the flesh free from skin and bones 
Prom two broiled fresh herrings, and pound it till 
smooth with a quarter/ part of its bulk of fresh butter 
and a seasoning of pepper (black and red), a very 
little salt, and an atom of mace. When perfectly 
smooth press it into pots, and if a little clarified 
butter is run over it, it will keep for some time. 
Any fish, especially kippers, bloaters, Finnon had- 
dock, smoked or fresh salmon, or cod's roe, lobster, 
&c., may be prepared thus. Shrimps make par- 
ticularly good paste, as do also canned lobster or 
salmon, especially if a little anchovy paste or a well- 
washed and boned fillet or so of anchovy be pounded 
with every ^Ib. of fish. It is difficult to give exact 
quantities, as the mixture depends largely on 
personal taste. 

Bloater Chilled. — Split the fish and grill it over a 
clear fire, cooking the skin side first, and then the 
uiside, for five to eight minutes, and serve dry or 
with a tiny pat of butter on it. 



84 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 

Bloater Toast— rPick all the flesH from a bloater 
fried in butter ; pound tbis flesb with tbe roe and 
|oz. of butter, season well witb pepper and salt, and 
sieve it. Add tbis puree to a gill of wbite sauce or 
of velout^, stir it aU over tbe fire till tbick, pour it 
on five or six squares of buttered toast, and serve 
very bot. 

Shrimp Toast. — ^Melt loz. of butter, and stir into 
this wben bot baK a pint of picked sbrimps, a little 
finely minced parsley or cbives, a good seasoning of 
black and coralline pepper, and a dessertspoonful of 
tomato, walnut, or musbroom ketcbup, or indeed 
any cruet sauce, to taste. A very few drops of 
essence of ancbovy are a great addition to tbis. 



>iia.>« 



CHAPTEE V. 

SAYOUEIES (Continued). 

Next in importance to anchovies, and such like, 
comes cheese, nowadays served in all sorts of ways 
for a second course, of which fashion the following 
wUl give a few specimens. 

Oroutea au Fromage, — Slice some white or brown 
bread half an inch thick, and from these stamp out 
as many rounds l^in. in diameter as you may 
require (hollowing them slightly on the top and 
frying them till biscuit-crisp), and keep them hot ; 
meanwhile stir together 2oz. grated cheese, one egg 
yolk, loz. of fresh butter, loz. freshly grated white 
bread-crumbs, a dessertspoonfiQ of cream or new 
milk, and a good seasoning of freshly ground black 
pepper, cayenne, and salt. When this is perfectly 
blended, pile it up on the rounds of bread, smooth it 
with a knife, and set it in the oven till nicely 
browned (or use a salamander or a red hot shovel) 
and serve at once very hot. 

. Golden Buck, — Mince 4oz. of Cheddar cheese, and 
set it on the fire with loz. of butter, a wineglassful 
of ale, a saltspoonf ul of celery aaVt, «jxv^. ^wsJi* V'?;>&- ^ 



86 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &o. 

one of coralline pepper ; then add two e^gs well 
beaten with a tablespoonf ul of cream, stir it all well, 
and whisk it over the fire till creamy and just 
setting ; add a few drops of lemon juice and half a 
teaspoonful of Worcester sauce, and serve at once on 
hot buttered toast. Another version of this dish is 
made by covering the hot toast with a rarebit 
mixture, then, just as the toast is to be served, 
putting a delicately poached egg on each one. 

Diabloiins a la Gruyere. — Line some small dariole 
moulds with thinly rolled-out anchovy, cheese, or 
short pastry, as you prefer ; dissolve loz. of butter, 
work into it |oz. of cornflour and 3oz. grated Gruyere 
cheese, moistening it with a giU of milk, and let it 
all boil up well; then stir into it two well-beaten 
eggs and a good seasoning of cayenne. Half fill the 
darioles with this, then lay in a good cube of 
anchovy, bloater, or any other highly seasoned paste, 
fill them up with the rest of the cheese mixture, 
sprinkling the surface with grated cheese, and bake 
a light brown in a moderate oven, turn out and 
serve at once. 

Bouchees a la Simla. — Wash and bone half a tin 
of sardines, sprinkle them generously with tarragon 
vinegar, freshly ground black pepper, and salt, and 
let them steep from one and a half to two hours. 
Now pound them with an equal amount of Cheddar 
cheese, sieve it all, and serve piled on biscuit-crisp 
croutons with a garnish of seasoned watercress. This 
paste spread on bread and butter makes delicious 
sandwiches. 
Toasted Cheese a T Auglai«e. — -"Sox ^He ou*^ of the 



SAVOURIES. 87 

old-fashioned cheese-toasters with an outer dish 
containing boiling water is needed, though the 
modern chafing dish will also answer. Slice down 
some good rich cheese pretty thinly, and lay it in 
the hot- water dish, with (if at all dry) some morsels 
of butter ; add two or three spoonfuls of porter or 
good ale (according to the quantity of cheese), some 
freshly ground black pepper, with sufficient made 
mustard to flavour it well, and stir it till it is all 
thoroughly melted. Send to table at once in the 
hot-water dish (in old days this dish was always 
made in the dining-room) with crisp hot toast. 
This dish varies according to taste ; some people dip 
the thick buttered toast into the beer, melting the 
cheese with a spoonful or two of cream or new milk, 
and pouring it when ready on to the toast ; others 
again omit the ale altogether, being content with 
milk and a dash of celery salt, browning the surface 
with a salaman ler, and serving it on rather soft, 
freshly made buttered toast. Of course this can be 
cooked quite as well in a saucepan, but requires 
watching, as if the least overcooked it is leathery. 
If cooked thus, and poured on to lightly buttered 
toast, seasoned with coralline or Nepal pepper, 
and the surface browned, it is often called " Welsh 
Rabbit (or Rarebit"), whilst if, when made in this 
way, a drop or two of vinegar and a minced pickled 
gherkin are added at the last, it is known as " Irish 
Rarebit.*' Many people again add the yolk of one or 
more eggs to the mixture and call the dish " Golden 
Buck," The real toasted cheese, however, should be 
slices cf cheese reallv toasted iu front ot i\ia fe^ 



88 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 

very carefully, so as to have it soft through, but not 
quite dripping; it is then laid on slices of toast, 
seasoned with salt and cayenne pepper, and served 
very hot. 

Macaroni Cheese. — Boil sufficient macaroni to 
three parts fill the dish you intend to use; then 
strain it, lay it in the dish, pour over it enough good 
cream to just cover it, add a thick layer of good 
rich cheese thinly sliced or grated, with a seasoning 
of salt and cayenne, and bake in a quick oven. A 
nice, and unusual, form of this dish is to prepare 
the macaroni as before, and have ready some squares 
or triangles of buttered toast dipped in rather thick 
tomato sauce; fill the dish alternately with these, 
finishing with the macaroni, and dusting each layer 
generously with grated cheese, pepper, and salt, 
pour in enough cream or new milk to just cover it, 
and bake till browned on top. 

Ballettes d'or. — Into a pint of good velout^ stir the 
yolks of two eggs, a spoonful of cream, a dust of 
coralline pepper, and sufficient grated Parmesan 
cheese to flavour it well. Stir it all over the fire, 
adding as you do so sufficient cold cooked macaroni, 
minced into little rings, to thicken it, then turn 
it out and leave till cold. Now break off 
pieces, roll these lightly into balls, dip them in 
flour, brush them over with beaten egg, and roll 
them in crushed vermicelli or white bread-crumbs, 
and fry a golden brown. Serve with fried parsley. 

Chonfleur Gratine au Fromage. — Melt 3oz. or 4oz. 
of fresh butter, and stir into it some freshly grated 
Parmesan cheese and a \itW^ ^ot^JCcoift ^^.^x. 



SAVOURIES. 89 

Have ready a boiled cauliflower (one left over from 
the previous night will do nicely), and cover it with 
half the oiled butter; now strew it thickly with 
grated cheese and fresh bread-crumbs, moisten with 
some of the oiled butter ; then another layer of the 
cheese and bread-crumbs, pour the rest of the oiled 
butter over it, and brown with a red hot salamander 
or shovel, and serve very hot. If preferred, use 
white sauce instead of the oiled butter. 

Pounded Cheese. — Break up any good cheese, even 
if dry and hard (this is a capital way of using up 
dry scraps of cheese), and pound it with either fresh 
butter or oil, using 3oz. or 4oz. of either of these to 
the lib. of cheese, according to the dryness of the 
latter ; seasoning it to taste with pepper, black or 
red, made mustard, or curry powder (a teaspoonful 
of either of the two latter to the lib. of cheese), 
cayenne, or ketchup, <fec., as you please. Now pi*ess 
it into little pots, when it will keep for some days in 
a cool place ; or for some weeks if clarified butter is 
run over the top. This is excellent for sandwiches, 
or it may be shaped into little balls (some minced 
pickle being worked into it if liked), left on ice for 
two or three hours, then served with hot, biscuit- 
crisp toast. 

Baked Cheese Sandwiches. — Cut slices from some 
rich cheese, about one-third of an inch thick, and 
place these between slices of brown bread and 
butter, seasoning them as you do so with freshly 
ground pepper and a drop or two of tarragon 
vinegar ; set these sandwiches in the oven and serve 
t^t once, directly the brec^^d i§ to«>»\fei. 



90 SALADS, SANDWICHES, Ac. 

(Eufa au Fromage. — Have ready some oiled and 
dried paper cases (or cliina cases if preferred), and 
place in each a layer of freshly grated bread-crumbs, 
mixed with grated Parmesan cheese, minced parsley, 
and chives, pepper and salt, about half an inch thick ; 
then break into each of these cases a fresh egg, dust 
it with pepper, and grated cheese, pour a teaspoonf ul 
of new milk or cream in at the side, and place it all 
in the oven till the eggs are cooked, and serve at 
once. The foundation layer of this can be varied to 
taste, and according to what you have. 

Cheese Patties. — Pound 8oz. of cheese with 4oz. of 
butter, and mix well ; then beat into it the white of 
one and the yolks of five . eggs, and when quite 
smooth pour the mixture into little tartlet pans 
lined with cheese pastry, and bake. 

Cheese Fritters, — Boil some macaroni till tender, 
then cut it up into tiny rings and mix these with 
grated Parmesan cheese, a little pepper and salt. 
Roll out some puff pastry trimmings, dust it thickly 
with grated cheese and some coralline pepper, fold 
it over and roll it out again as thin as you can get 
it. Now stamp it out in rounds, and on half the 
rounds put a little heap of the cheese and macaroni, 
and cover over with the other rounds, pinching the 
edges well together ; dip in egg and then iil bread- 
crumbs or broken up vermicelli, and fry in plenty 
of hot fat till of a golden brown. Serve on a 
napkin, dusted with grated cheese and cayenne. 
Some cooks add a little thick tomato sauce to the 
cheese and macaroni. 

Cheese Straws, — ^These ma,y \>^ tccbA^^ \s^ x^Uini^ 



SAVOURIES, 91 

ont the cheese pastry given for cassolettes, etc.. 
about one- third of an inch thick, cutting this 
into three or four-inch strips, and baking these in 
a good oven till delicately coloured. Another way 
is to prejiare the paste as in the preceding recipe 
(but not rolling it out so thinly), baking it when cut 
into strips ; or these strips may be egged and rolled 
in crumbs or broken vermicelli and fried in plouty 
of hot fat till crisp. If stored in air-tight tins, tho 
baked cheese straws will keep good for some time. 
Some cooks twist every sixth stick or so into a ring, 
and when baked pass four or five of the straight 
sticks through it, serving one of these little faggots 
for each guest. 

Cheese Balls (Meringues au Pamiesan), — Whisk 
the whites of two eggs to a froth, then stir in lightly 
2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese (mind it is rather 
dry), with salt and cayenne to taste. Shape this 
mixture into balls the size of a marble, niul drop 
them into a panful of boiling fat. Fry for about tivo 
minutes till crisp and of a golden colour, then drain 
and serve dusted with grated cheese and eavtMin<\ 

Cheese Souffle. — Melt loz. of butter, stir into it 
loz. of fine sifted flour, moisten this wiih a gill of 
new milk or single cream, and let it boil togt^ther 
till perfectly blended ; now mix in, off the liiv, the 
yolks of three eggs, a seasoning of salt, white 
or black pepper, as you prefer it, anil -o/. to ;^oz. of 
grated and dry Parmesan, beating tuioh egg in well 
b^ore adding the next ; lastly, «tir in the whites of 
the eggs beaten to the stifTent pon^ibh' froih, jh>u 
tie mixture into a bvxU^tvnV wwV \\\vy\v-^ ^<i^^\^ 



92 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 

mould, and bake for thirty minutes if cooked in one 
tin, or ten to fifteen minutes if the above is divided 
into little souffle cases. If to the above mixture 
you add a strong seasoning of coralline pepper, or 
of the Hungarian papriJca, with a drop or two of 
Tabasco, the souffle becomes Souffle au papriJca, or 
a la didble. Again, if to the above mixture you add 
another eggj and a good tablespoonful of thick 
cream, and steam the souffle very gently, it can be 
turned out and served as Mousse au fromage. But 
in this case great care must be taken with the 
steaming. 

Cheese Aigrettes. — Put 2oz. of butter into a pan 
with half a pint of water, and as soon as it boils up 
dredge in 4oz. of fine flour ; stir it till it is a thick 
smooth paste that leaves the sides of the pan quite 
3lean, then work in 2oz. of grated Parmesan and a 
^ood dash of coralline pepper ; next mix in, off the 
fire, the yolks of two eggs, beating the first well in 
before adding the second, and lastly stir in the very 
stiffly whipped whites of the eggs. Now turn it out 
on a buttered plate to cool, and when cold fry it in 
little rough lumps. This same paste can also be 
forced out by means of a bag and pipe on to a 
buttered baking tin, baked, and served as cheese 
profiterollesy or used as a garnish for clear soup, if 
small enough. 

Cheese d'Artois, — Take the weight of two eggs in 
bread-crumbs and cheese, and the weight of one in 
butter, with some puff paste. Roll the paste out 
very thin and halve it ; heat the butter in a 
delicatelj clean pan and ^>eat m^ \\. XXx^ft Vst«84.- 



SAVOURIES. 93 

crumbs, the cheese, the yolks of two eggs and the 
white of one, with salt, pepper, and a dash of nutmeg 
to taste. When this is all well blended and rather 
thick, spread one sheet of puff paste with this 
mixture, cover it with the other, sandwich fashion, 
lay it on a buttered baking tin, score it in inch- 
wide strips, brush it over with well-beaten egg, 
and bake for ten minutes in a quick oven. Then 
cut through the scores and serve at once, piled up 
and very hot, dusted with grated Parmesan and 
coralline pepper. 

Cheese Creams. — Season half a pint of stiffly 
whipped cream with coralline pepper and salt, 
then mix with it l^oz. of grated Qruyere, and loz. 
of grated Parmesan cheese, a teaspoonful of made 
mustard, and a gill of whipped aspic jelly. Stir 
this all till it is beginning to set, then pour it 
either into a Neapolitan ice mould or into any 
pretty dariole moulds, and place it for an hour in 
the charged ice cave. Now dip the mould into 
cold water, turn out the cream, serve it sliced with 
seasoned watercress, or any nice salad to taste. 
Or, if it was moulded in the little darioles, have 
ready some tomatoes previously dipped for a minute 
in boiling water, peeled, and sliced one-third of an 
inch thick; season these with salt, pepper, oil, 
vinegar, and a little minced parsley, turn out a little 
cheese mould' on to each slice, and serve gamislied 
with chopped aspic and seasoned watercress. 

Moulded Cheese. — ^Bub up the joTk of a 1 
boiled egg with a tablespoonfnl ol 
mix in separately, one after the otl « sl Aie 



94 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 

each of salt, coralline pepper, caster sugar, and 
made mustard, moistening it with a drop or two of 
Tabasco ; then work in ^Ib. of very dry and grated 
cheese. When it is all well mixed add a table- 
spoonful of onion vinegar, shape the mixture into a 
large roll or pat, and set it on ice till wanted. 
Serve with a plain lettuce salad, with an oil and 
vinegar dressing. Strangely enough, few people in 
England appear to know how good cheese (such as 
G^ruyere especially) is, if cut into dice and stirred in 
with a salad. 

Devilled Cheese Biscuits. — Steep some smallish 
v/ater biscuits in milk for ten minutes, then lift 
them out, dust them with cayenne, salt, and black 
pepper, and bake for ten minutes in a slow oven ; 
now lift them out, put a slice of , cheese of the same 
size on each, and return them to the oven for ten 
minutes longer, and serve dusted with coralline 
pepper. 

Cornets a la Portugaise, — Pound five or six 
large tomatoes, sieve them, seasoning this puree 
with pepper, salt, and, if needed, a drop or two of 
liquid carmine. Now stir into it a gill of just liquid 
aspic jelly, a gill of cream whipped stiffly, with a 
strong flavouring of freshly grated Parmesan cheese, 
and a little coralline pepper ; add to this a dessert- 
spoonful of tarragon and a teaspoonful of chilli 
vinegar, with a little minced tarragon and chervil, 
and set this all on ice till wanted. Have ready 
some biscuit-crisp cornets of cheese pastry, and fill 
them with this cream by means of a bag and pipe, 
and serve garnished with Beasoned Yjatercreaa. 



SATOTTBIES. 9^5 

Crouies a la GloMcetUr. — Cat some rounds of 
Hovis bread and of cheese to match, and pile on 
each en pyramids some Gloucester sance made thus : 
Beat np four eggs till light, then add a gill each of 
cream and chilli yinegar, a little French mustard, 
salt, cayenne, and 2oz- of fresh butter ; stir this in 
the bain-marie till quite thick, but mind it does not 
boil, then, off the fire, add a few drops of lemon 
juice and some finelj minced tarragon and set it on 
ice till wanted. 

Canapes de Tomates au Parmesan,— Have ready 
some round fried croutons ; dip some rich-coloured 
tomatoes for a minute in boiling water, skin and 
slice them, and lay a slice of tomato on each, put a 
cube of Gruyere seasoned with oil and vinegar on 
this, and then, by means of a pipe and bag, luiisk 
the whole with egg white meringue strongly 
flavoured with grated Parmesan, and coralline 
pepper, and serve ; or set it in a slack oven for a 
minute or two to crisp and colour very faintly. 

Cheese Crab. — Pound 2oz. of cheese with a 
dessertspoonful of anchovy sauce, the same of made 
mustard, and also of anchovy or chilli vinegar, a 
pinch of red pepper, a little salt, the yolks of two 
eggs, and a tablespoonful of butter. Pour this 
mixture on to hot buttered toast and bake for 8(-*veu 
or eight minutes till nicely browned. Or it may 
be thoroughly mixed in a basin (without cooking) 
and served cold on squares of Hovis bread, aH you 
please. 

Cornets a la MUanaise. — Have ready as many 
comets made with cheese pastry as you require. 



96 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 

Now mix together 2oz. of fine flour, 3oz. of grated 
Parmesan cheese, 2^oz. of butter, a good pinch each 
of coralline pepper and salt, the yolks of four raw 
eggs, and rather more than half a pint of cold milk ; 
stir this all over the fire till on the point of boiling 
(if it does boil the eggs will curdle), then lift it off, 
let it cool, when you stir in lightly a gill of stiffly 
whipped cream and two tablespoonfuls of minced 
prawns, shrimps, or lobster, and fill the comets with 
the mixture. Place a curled-up prawn or shrimp in 
the mouth of the cornet, and serve. The comets 
may be left plain, or lightly brushed over with just 
liquid aspic, and dusted with coralline pepper and 
minced parsley. If you prepare a movsseline sauce 
by adding a gill of richly coloured tomato mayon- 
naise to a gill of stiffly whipped and seasoned 
cream, and the same of whipped aspic, incorporating 
into this a tablespoonful of small dice of Gruyfere 
cheese, and the same of dice of cucumber, and till th€ 
cornets with this, you have Cornets a la Maximilian, 
the contents of which should always be iced. 

Cheese Savoury, — Mix well together over a clear 
fire a dessertspoonful of mustard, a wineglassful of 
vinegar (that from walnut pickle is nicest), a 
dessertspoonful of essence of anchovy, a small piece 
of butter, and black, white, and red pepper to taste. 
When this is well mixed and hot, stir in 4oz. of 
finely broken-up cheese, and directly this is melted 
pour the mixture on to very hot toast, and serve at 
once. If care is not taken about adding the cheese 
only at the last, and serving it directly it is melted, 
this toast will be utterly spoilt and indigestible, 



SAVOURIES. 97 

thoagli, if properly prepared, it is a very popular 
savoury. 

Cheese Pvdding. — Mix two eggs with 5oz. of 
cheese and lialf a pint of boiling milk, pour the 
mixture into a pie-dish and bake for fifteen minutes. 
This may be turned out if liked, but is better if 
served in the dish it was cooked in. 

Cheese a Vltalienne. — Half a pound of grated 
Parmesan cheese, quarter of a pound of mutton 
suet, 2oz. of boiled and cut-up macaroni, with pepper 
and salt to taste. Beat all this together with two 
eggs, and steam for one hour and ten minutes in a 
well-buttered basin or mould. Serve with rich 
tomato sauce over and round it. K preferred, any 
other rich savoury sauce, or even clear gravy, may 
be served round it. Rice is just as good as 
macaroni for this dish. 

Cheese a VHollandaise. — For six little croustades 
of fried bread, mix two tablespoonfuls of grated 
Parmesan with a gill of HoUandaise sauce, fill up 
the croustades with this and set them in tlie oven 
just long enough to colour the surface, and serve 
at once. 

Canapes au Parmesan, — Stew an ounce of minced 
onion in half an ounce of butter till it turns a pale 
yellow, then put into this pan half a pound of 
tomatoes, quartered, and stew them gently till 
tender; then sieve them through a hair sieve, 
moistening them as you do so with a few drops of 
cream or new milk. Now return the pan to the fire 
and stir the tomato pur^ with enough grated cheese 
to make it like thick batter, seasoning it with freshly 



98 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &0. 

ground black pepper ; then spread this Teiy thicUf 
on fingers or rounds of fried bread, and serve u 
hot as jou can make it, dusted with freshly grated 
Parmesan. It is by many reckoned an improye- 
ment to cook a bunch of herbs and a bay-leaf 
with the tomatoes. 

Kisch au Parmesan, — Beat up the yolks of fite 
or six eggs with a gill of cream or new milk, an 
ounce of grated Parmesan, a good pinch of cayenne, 
and a dust of salt. Four the mixture into little 
china souffle cases, bake in a moderate oven, and 
serve very. hot. 

Cream Cheese Savoury. — Cream 4oz. of butter 
and mix it with three well-beaten eggs, and when 
it is all like cream add a quarter of a tin of 
unsweetened condensed milk (or use cream), three 
tables]>oonfuls of grated cheese, cayenne, and a 
good squeeze of lemon juice ; then add sufficient 
freshly made bread-crumbs to get it stiff enough 
to roll, drop these little balls into hot fat and frj 
a golden brown. Serve with dry toast and seasoned 
watercress. 

American Barehit. — ^Prepare some toasted cheese 
as for Welsh rabbit, have ready as many squares 
of buttered toast well sprinkled with cayenne as 
you desire, stir one or two minced pickled gherkins 
into the mixture and pour it on to the toast, put 
a roll of broiled bacon or ham on top, and serre 
very hot. 

After fish and cheese savouries the most popular 
are the various kinds of toasts, and croiites^ the 
difference between these being, that for the former 



SAYOURIES. 99 

the bread is plainly toasted and in some cases 
buttered, whereas in the latter the bread is fried a 
delicate golden brown in plenty of hot fat till 
biscuit-crisp, and well drained before use. For tlie 
ordinary toast you mince the meat to be used rather 
finely, seasoning it to taste with pepper, salt, minced 
parsley and chives, etc., according to the kind of 
meat used. This mince is then stirred over the fire 
with either milk, butter, or a little gravy or sauce, 
as you choose, till quite hot, and then served piled 
up plainly on hot buttered toast ; or when piled up 
the surface is dusted with bread-crumbs and a little 
oiled butter, and the toast is placed in the oven till 
quite hot through and delicately browned. The 
following may serve to give some idea of these 
toasts and croutes : 

Devonshire Toast. — Rub any nice potted meat 
(Strasburg, ham, game, or foie gras) with enough 
butter, or thick cream, to make it easy to spread ; 
coat some thin pieces of biscuit-crisp toast with this 
pur^e, then pile up on it some Devonshire or clotted 
cream, and garnish with minced olives and tiny 
fillets of either sardines or anchovies, washing these 
well and removing all bones. (Bloater or any fish 
paste can be used instead of the meat paste.) 

Ham, Bacon, or Kidney Toast. — Mince very finely 
a slice or two of cooked ham, bacon, or a veal 
kidney, or two or three sheeps' kidneys, or the 
remains of a tongue (grate this if preferred), mix 
it with the well-beaten yolk of one or more eggs, 
and enough cream, gravy, or stock to make it all 
soft Season to taste and stir it over the fire till 

\5 



100 SALADS, SANDWICHES, Ac. 

quite hot (but do not actually cook it again), then 
pour it on to hot buttered toast and serve. The 
secret in making this toast is to yary the flavourings 
nicely, using minced parsley, chives, lemon juice, etc, 

German Toast — Mince finely the remains of any 
nice fncaaseey or ragout, with a little parsley, 
chives, or shallot, pepper and salt. Mix this "v^th 
one or more egg yolks, add the gravy belonging to 
the dish, and stir it all over the fire till thick, 
then turn it out and leave till cold. Now pile it 
up on buttered toast, and either brush it over with 
a^Q and strew it with crumbs, or cover it with the 
white of the egg used (whipped to a stiff froth, 
and seasoned with minced parsley and coralline 
pepper), and set it in the oven till quite hot and 
nicely coloured. A few drops of lemon juice should 
be squeezed over it at the last. Any remains of a 
casserole are excellent seiTed thus, but should be 
highly seasoned. 

Curry Toast, — Well wash, bone, and pound 4oz. 
of anchovies with a little curry powder or paste, 
mustard, butter, and a few drops of vinegar ; spread 
this on hot buttered toast, place in the oven till 
hot, and serve at once. Any highly flavoured meat 
is good rechauffe thus. 

Bombay Toast. — Melt a square inch of butter and 
stir into it two eggs, a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
cayenne, and a few drops of essence of anchovy; 
spread this on buttered toast and serve very hot. 
Any strongly flavoured sauce to taste may be nsed 
instead of the anchovy. 

Marrow Toast, — Break two good marrow bones 



SAVOURIES. 101 

and remove tlie marrow ; Boak tliis for two hours in 
tepid water to cleanse it, then cut it into inch cubes. 
A little before the dish is wanted, place the marrow 
in a frying basket and dip the latter into cold water, 
place it on the fire, and the moment it comes to the 
boil lift out the marrow, drain it, and put it on very 
hot crisp croutons, break it up with a fork, sprinkle 
it with minced parsley and chives (or young spring 
onions), and Searcey salt, or salt, and coralline 
pepper. Serve very hot. 

Marrow au Madere. — Prepare the marrow as 
before, have ready the hot croutons and lay the 
marrow on this (but without breaking it up), 
pouring over it a rich Sauce Madere, and serve very 
hot. This is nicest if served in a silver hash or 
chafing dish with a spirit lamp under it. For Sauce 
Madere, boil a tumblerful of cooking sherry with 
some truffle or mushroom triromings till the liquid 
is reduced to half, then add to it a gill of good brown 
sauce, boil it up, sieve it, stir into it a little minced 
truffle, with cayenne and salt to taste, and use. 

Marrow a la Mavtre d'Hotel. — Into a gill of 
creamy bechamel sauce stir a good spoonful of finely 
minced parsley, and chives (previously blanched), 
add a good spoonful of thick cream, a squeeze of 
lemon juice, with some freshly ground black pepper, 
some coralline pepper, and a little salt. Prepare the 
marrow as before, break it up on the hot toast (not 
fried bread), and serve with the sauce over it. The 
essence of these dishes is to have them very hot. 

Croutes a la Clarice, — Have ready some thin slices 
of parboiled fat bacon, lay on ei^.c\i ^ \\V\Xfc V'^'^>^ ^V 



102 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &o. 

shred ham, anchovy, and mushroom ; roll each up, 
dip in frying batter, and fry a golden brown. Drain, 
dust with coralline pepper, and serve on small and 
very hot square croutons dusted with minced chives 
and coralline pepper. 

Groutes de Jamhon d VIndienne, — Stamp out 
rounds one and a half inches across from thin slices 
of bread, and have half as many rounds of ham cut 
to match. Butter the bread lightly, then spread it 
witli good chutney, place the ham on the bread, 
covering it with the rest, press them together, dip 
them in frying batter, fry a golden brown, drain 
well, and serve garnished with fried parsley. 

Oroutes a la Busse. — Prepare some round, biscuit- 
crisp croutons, and place on each a slice of hard- 
boiled egg seasoned with oil and vinegar, a cube of 
smoked or hung beef, and pile over it all some rich 
and rather stiff horseradish cream. For this cleanse 
and scrape a stick of young horseradish very finely, 
mix it quickly into a gill of stiffly whipped soui 
cream, and season with cayenne and a few drops of 
chilli vinegar. 

Craigie Toast. — Beat three eggs till light, then 
mix them with a minced green chilli, the pulp of 
two tomatoes cut into dice, a spoonful of milk or 
cream, a pinch of salt, and loz. of butter ; stir it all 
over the fire till quite hot, pour it on to hot buttered 
toast and serve at once. 

Groutes de Volaille a la Diahley — Mince two parts 

of chicken to one of ham, and stir it over the fire 

with half an ounce or so of fresh butter, a little 

minced parsley, cayenne, an^ «^ -^vc^Ocl ^1 ^xrcr^ 



SAVOURIES. 103 

powder. Wlien the cuny is cooked and the mince 
as hot as it can be short of boiling, pour it on to 
little fried crontons, and serre moistened with a 
dessertspoonful of good grarj or rich brown sauce 
on each. (Ham, tongoe, lobster, prawns, shrimps, 
etc., are all excellent thus.) 

Cassolettes a la Sirasburg, — Hare leadj some 
boat-shaped cases of cassolette pastiy, garnish the 
edges bj means of bag and pipe with a little edge of 
butter, dust this lightlj with chopped lax oi 
coralline pepper as you please, place a tiny column 
ofpdte defoie gras (cut with a plain column cutter) 
in the centre of each, and fill up the cassolettes with 
a mixture of chopped olives, tongue, French gherkin, 
apple, and the trimmings of the faie gras, all 
seasoned with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, and 
serve garnished with Julienne strips of crisped 
celery, tossed in oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, and 
sprinkled with minced tarragon and cherviL 

Cassolettes a la Cazanova. — ^Have ready some small 
boat-shaped or round cassolettes, and lay in each a 
cube of foie gras, or of any rich pate to taste, and 
mask this entirely with white mayonnaise (made with 
cream and lemon juice instead of oil and vinegar), 
into which you have previously stirred Julienne 
strips of truffles and of hard-boiled egf^ white. 

Fonds d'Artiehatds au Foie Gras. — Drain well 
some small cooked, or canned, artichoke bottoms, and 
season lightly with oil, vinegar, minced tarragon, 
chervil, salt, and pepper ; place on each a round 
slice of foie gras, then cover with raw tomato cut 
into dice, shred and crisped celerj^ ^isA ly^xcA x^^^s^ 



104 SALADS, SANDWlCttES, Ac, 

slices of cucumber similarlj seasoned, and on the 
top of the pile set a stoned oliye, farced with stiff 
mayonnaise. If preferred, a piece of lobster, or a 
mince of cold game, or a prawn, or an anchoYj and 
some capers may be used instead of the foie gras, 
but in that case the name must be altered. 

Biscuits a la Diahle, — Mix well a tablespoonful of 
finely chopped ham, a dessertspoonful of minced 
capers, the same of minced anchovies, a full gill of 
rich espagnole sauce, a good spoonful of sherry, and 
a tiny dash of cayenne. Stir it all over the fire till 
quite hot, have ready some hot devilled biscuits, 
pile the mixture on these, dusting them with coralline 
l)epper and grated Parmesan cheese, and serve as 
hot as fire and pepper will make them. 

Olives a la St. Augustin. — Turn some olives, and 
with a bag and small pipe fill them with paid de foie 
gras previously sieved ; stand each olive in a little 
houche mould (quarter of an inch deej)), and fill the 
mould with just liquid aspic, garnishing each with a 
little chervil. When firm turn out and sot each on a 
square croiitc thickly spread with ham butter. This 
dish can be varied to taste; for instance, if the 
olives are stuffed with a fillet of anchovy, or a little 
anchovy butter, and placed, when set, on croutes 
piled with shrimp or prawn butter, they become 
Olives a la Normande, Or, the olives may be stuffed 
with rich mayonnaise or tartare sauce, and the 
croutons spread with lobster seasoned with oil and 
vinegar, and mixed with just liquid aspic, the 
whole being spread on the croutes before it is 
actually set, and served aa Grovdea d* Homard d la 



SAVOtJRIES. 105 

Mayonnaise, or a la Tartare. This may serve lo 
show how this dish may be varied. 

Comets aux Olives. — Blanch and mmce enough 
olives to till a dessertspoon, and stir this into a gill 
of rich mayonnaise (made as in the recipe for 
Cassolettes a la Cazanova) ; now stir into this a gill 
of stiffly whipped aspic, and the same of stiffly 
whipped cream, adding in some little cubes of foio 
gras. Have ready some crisp cold comets made of 
cornet paste, and fill these with the above by means 
of a bag and rose pipe, and place in the mouth of 
each comet an olive stoned and farced with sievovl 
foie gras. This is another savoury that may l>e 
varied almost indefinitely. For instance, use 
tomato mayonnaise, mix with the aspic and whippeil 
cream, and little pieces of lobster or prawns, and 
place a curled prawn with a tiny spray of tarragon 
in the mouth of each. 

Croides a la Greville, — Stamp out rounds from 
some half- inch slices of Ho vis bread, and pile thorn 
with minced game mixed with a little ham, some 
capers, and minced anchovies, then mask it all with 
brown chaufroix sauce just on the point of settiuij^. 
Very often game is used for the half of the croAtos, 
the other half being similarly piled with chiokon, 
tongue, etc., and then masked with white or creamy 
chaufroix. A version of this is known as Crouics 
a la Pompadour, the croutes being masked alter- 
nately with creamy white chaufroix, tomato 
mayonnaise, and verte sauce, stifiEened with a sheet 
or two of leaf gelatine. 

Croutes a rimperiale, — H.a7e x^^^ %Q\aa x<^NiX!iSi^ 



106 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &o, 

biscuit-crisp fried croutes, and pile on each a little 
hhater cream (made by mixing bloater paste with 
stiffly whipped cream), garnishing it with capers on 
the apex of the pile and a dust of coraUine pepper, 
serving it with a garnish of shred, crisped and 
seasoned celery. K preferred, rounds of Hoyis 
bread, buttered, may be used instead of the croutons. 

Oroutes a la Berne. — ^Have ready some round 
croutons rather thickly spread with chopped olives, 
tongue, shallot, and parsley (previously stirred over 
the fire till thick in a gill of rich espagnole or 
Perigord sauce), and place on each the hot hard- 
boiled yolk of an egg seasoned with oil, vinegar, 
pepper and salt. 

Croutes a V Albert — Have ready some square fried 
croutes, place on each a slice of tongue cut to match, 
previously warmed between two buttered saucers, 
and moistened with a little sherry, in the oven. 
Cover this all with buttered eggs, strew it thickly 
with grated tongue, and serve as hot as possible. 

Croutes a Vlndienne. — Spread some hot square 
croiites with curry or devil butter, cover with 
buttered eggs, strew with minced capers, anchovy, 
and chives, and serve very hot. 

Croutes a la Francaise. — Spread some square 
croutes with maitre d* hotel butter, or with panah, 
sprinkle this with minced Gruyere cheese and 
anchovies, and place a little ball of caviar in the 
centre. 

Croutes de Caviar attx Anchois, — ^Beat up some of 

the dark green tinned caviar with a few drops of 

lemon juice, a cofiEeeBpooMul. oi &^\dA q^ ^oA ^ d»&t 



SAYOTJRIES. 107 

of coralline pepper, and with this spread rather 
thickly some biscuit-crisp croiites, then decorate the 
top with a rose of anchovy cream, and serve. (It 
may be well to observe that anchovies go particu- 
larly well with caviar, as for that matter do prawns, 
and that tiny sandwiches spread with anchovy 
butter are frequ^tttly served with plain caviar, to 
the great improvement of the latter.) 

Croutes a la Turque, — Have ready some maitre 
d^hotd or green butter, some anchovy or shrimp 
butter, and some e^^ or curry butter. Prepare 
some finger croutons, and pile on each three little 
heaps of the different butters, smoothing them into 
a neat pyramidical shape with a hot knife, and lay a 
strip of hard-boiled q^^ white between each colour, 
to divide them. This can, of course, be varied to 
taste. For instance, cucumber purfe, salmon puree, 
and aspic cream may be used with excellent effect, 
or any other variation to taste. 

Mvshroom Souffle. — Draw down very slowly a pint 
of good mushrooms with a little salt for ten minutes, 
then strain off the liquor. Pound and sieve the 
mushrooms. Cook together till smooth and perfectly 
blended, loz. each of butter and flour, then moisten 
it with a gill of good stock and the mushroom 
liquor ; now add the pounded mushrooms and the 
yolks of two eggs ; when it is all blended stir in 
at the last, quickly and lightly, the stiffly whipped 
whites of four eggs, pour it into a well-buttered 
mould, steam it for thirty-five to forty minutes, 
according to the size of the mould, and turn it out 
carefully, masking it with, a 4ft^e^\A^ xaa^^b <2v>kS^'$Rk 



108 SAIiADS, SANDWICHES, &o. 

cream, and serve at once. Another way of serving 
this is to steam it for twenty-five minutes in a well- 
buttered border mould, then turn it out and serve 
with either a ragout a la Tovlouae, or afinanctire 
ragout, or a very rich oyster sauce in the centre, as 
you please. 

Marrowbones, to Gooh. — Get the butcher to saw 
the bones into convenient sizes, and carefully cover 
up the ends with a stiff strong paste of flour and 
water, tieing over this clean pieces of floured cloth. 
Put the bones upright in a pan of boiling water, 
being careful to have them thoroughly covered with 
the water. Bring it to the boil again, then simmer 
steadily for one and a half to two hours, according 
to their size. Now remove the paste and the cloths 
quickly, twist a d'oyley round each, set them upright 
on a hot dish, and serve at once, sending up a rack 
of dried toast with them. Few cooks seem to know 
that these bones may be boiled for one and a half 
hours, lifted out, and set in a cool place till wanted, 
when half an hour more of boiling will send them to 
table in capital condition. This is often a great 
convenience to the cook. 

Macaroni Pies. — Boil some good macaroni till 
three parts cooked, then cut it into small pieces and 
mix it in a bowl with sliced sausage, minced hard- 
boiled egg, wiped and cut up mushrooms, some dice 
of ham, tiny delicate quenelles, and cooked cocks- 
combs, with sliced truffles if at hand ; moisten this 
with equal parts of strong meat gravy and tomato 
sauce, and season with freshly ground black pepper 
and grated Parmesan cheese. "H.«L\ft x^aA-^ %qixva 



SAVOURIES. 109 

pastrj-lined pattj pans, and put one or more spoon- 
fuls of the mixture on each; roll out some short 
paste, stamp it out in rounds a trifle larger than the 
pans, and place a round on each, rolling up the 
edges of the top and bottom crust in a kind of twist 
to keep in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven just 
long enough to bake the crust. Equally good hot 
or cold. If quenelles and cockscombs ai-e a trouble, 
invest in a tin of " quenelles '* as sold by Messrs. 
Cosenza (Wigmore Street), and use instead. 
Properly speaking, these pies should not be made in 
tins, the mixture being simply piled on a round of 
paste, covered with another, the edges of which are 
rolled up and finished as before. These are known 
then as tourtea a la russe. 

Gnocchi alia Romana. — For this prepare a 
porridge with semolina, by sifting a handful of 
semolina through the fingers of one hand into a pan 
of boiling salted water which you keep stirred with 
the other hand; continue this stirring well after 
the semolina is mixed in, so as to ensure tlu^ 
thorough cooking of the latter, tlien when suffieiently 
stiff turn it out and leave till perfectly cold. Now 
lift it up in spoonfuls and arrange these symmetric- 
ally in a well-buttered pie-dish, liberally sprinkling 
each layer with grated Parmesan cheese, tiny morsels 
of butter, and freshly and coarsely ground black 
pepper ; bake till of a pretty golden colour. 
Another way of preparing these is to dissolve a 
small pat of the butter in the salted water used for 
the porridge, and make the latter with two parts 
semolina to one of grated Parmesan, making it 



110 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &a 

pretty thick. When cold this is used as before, but 
cover each layer with either tomato pur^, good 
sauce, or strong beef gravy, as you please, instead of 
cheese, etc. Or again, the porridge can be prepared 
as in the first recipe, then season the layers with 
grated cheese, minced parsley, coralline pepper, and 
thick cream, and bake as before. A less delicatei 
but quite as nutritious, dish can be prepared with 
Indian cornmeal in exactly the same way, and is 
the famous polenta of Southern Italy, served in so 
many ways. 

The above will give some idea of the enormous 
variety of savouries which an intelligent and willing 
cook can evolve (all of which, I may observe, have 
been prepared by, nominally, the plainest of plain 
cooks, who had no idea of the society names of the 
dishes she sent up, or she would have struck at 
once !) ; but naturally, in a book of this size, it is 
impossible to do more than give samples, for 
one might fill several books with nothing but 
savouries, and yet leave a large aftermath for 
subsequent collectors. 



CHAPTER VI. 

GAENISHES, &c. 

With the growth of culinary taste in the country, 
there has arisen a desire for dishes as tempting to 
the eyes as they are to the palate, and in CyOtiHH' 
quence cooks have turned their attention vigorounly 
towards the subject of garnishes and decoration 
generally, and it must be added that their 7Atii\ hun 
not always been guided by discretion. Now, iaw 
things lend themselves more to decoration than tlie 
fancy dishes that are known generally as fwra 
(TcsMvre, savouries, and entremets. In fact, a gn?at 
part of their value is decorative. At the same time 
in no case should the modesty of nature be over, 
stepped. Grotesque, eccentric, or even too realistic 
shapes are not commendable save in exceptional 
circumstances, whilst any decoration that suggests 
overmuch handling of any kind, is, to say the least 
of it, unpleasant. Dainty simplicity is the keynote 
of success in these matters, and, above all, remember 
it is not sufficient for a dish to " look nice " (how- 
ever perfectly it may fulfil that requirement), it 
must also " taste nice." Pieces marUees, as they are 



112 SALADS, SANDWICHES, Ac. 

called by chefs, are all very well for state banquets, 
the shelves of a cookery exhibition, or similar places, 
but for ordinary households, however dainty, they 
are out of place. In such establishments two 
cardinal rules should be strictly adhered to : 1. To 
make every part of the dish, decorative or otherwise, 
fit (and looking fit, moreover) to eat. 2. Reduce 
all colouring, save what may be obtained by natural 
means (and the range of colour obtained by the 
artistic use of edibles, is a large one), to its very 
smallest dimensions ; in fact, wherever possible, 
eliminate the use of artificial colouring altogether. 
The first thing generally required for decorative 
purposes is a foundation, or stand, on which to 
show off the " pretty little tiny kickshaws *' which 
usually make up the list of such things as are 
treated of in this collection. Small objects, sweet 
or savoury, are always improved by being raised 
above the surface of the dish on which they are 
served, a fact well realised by all foreign cooks, 
who utilise all sorts of borders, stands, socles, Ac., 
for this purpose. Of these stands there are various 
kinds : croutons, aspic borders, rice borders, or the 
white-fat socles. 

Croutons may be prepared in two ways. The first 
is to cut the cylinder, or plain stand, in very stale 
bread, masking this thickly and smoothly with any 
coloured chaufroix, or cream to taste, according to 
what it is to be used for, only remembering that 
as this is simply for decorative use, any expensive 
adjuncts, such as wine, etc., are unnecessary. The 
sa>uce should be good, well coloured and flavotired, 



GAKiaSHES. Ac. 113 

so that the things arranged on it maj not contract 
any foreign flavonr, but tlnere the maitJber ends. 
Where a pure white is dtemred, prepar-e a good 
white sauce thus: Mix loz. of «ift^ fiour to a 
smooth paste with a littie cold water, tb/en, when 
this is perfectly blended^ pour in T-erj gradually a 
pint of absolutely boilo^ water or skim milk, brin^ 
it well to the boil, dissolve m it tbrae^uarters to 
loz. of gelatine, and let it all «imicer together till 
the gelatine is entirely di«i&olred and the whole is 
smooth ; use this to ma«k the crouton, jwst as it is 
cooled and all but »etim^, A good brown 
chaufroix for this purpose iM made by stirring 
2oz. of flour orer the ^re with ^oz, of butter till 
it has turned a rich, but not too deep, brown. 
(If you need a rery deep colour, a^d a drop or 
two of caramel, or a little brown oolourii^ till vou 
get the right tint) Finish off with either water 
or colouring Kquid, as if it were melted butter, 
dissolving in it foz- tx> loz, of gelatine to 
the pint of sanoe. For Caramel, melt 2oz. of 
pounded loaf sugar in a small iron saucepan, 
stirring it with an iron spoon until it turos a rich 
dark brown; then add half a pint of hot water, 
and let it boil up till the water is thoroughly 
coloured, when you lift off the pan, let it cool, and 
bottle it. The difficulty about this is that it is very 
apt to bum, when it becomes acrid and ant, 

whilst if not sufficiently cooked, it gives a y 

sweetness to everjthing to which it is added* Tl 
is often used by cooks to *' bring up the co! * 
they call it) of badly made soups, and 

1 



lU SALADS. SANDWICHES, Ac. 

is to be avoided, but it comes in rery usefully in the 
present instance. Another very good colouring 
(which would answer admirably for the brown sauce 
given above) is made by toasting a slice of bread 
till it is as dark a brown as you can get it without 
actually letting it bum. It is then put into either 
cold or hot water, and allowed to steep until the 
water is sufficiently coloured. This browning is also 
often used to colour soups, either of meat, fish, or 
vegetable stock. Of course, these sauces are simplj 
for decorative purposes; where the croutons are 
small, and, though used for garnish, are actually to 
be eaten, the best sauces must, of course be used. 
Anyway, whatever sauce you use, do not colour them 
artificially. 

Next to croutons comes jelly. Now, of this there 
are two kinds — ^meat jelly and aspic jelly. This 
latter has been so fully dealt with in No. IV. of the 
** Queen " Cookery Books (on " Entrees ") that no 
more need be said here. But remember, that though 
the ordinary aspic, made without stock, will answer 
admirably for socles or stands, if it is to be eaten 
care must be bestowed on its flavour as well as on 
its clearness. Again, aspic, by reason of its 
necessary acidity, is not always suitable, and in 
many cases dishes are actually spoilt by this tart- 
ness. In this case it is better to prepare the jelly 
thus : Put into a j^an a quart of any light stock to 
taste, according to the colour you wish your jelly to 
be (Consomme Maggi dissolved in water according to 
its accompanying directions makes a most praise- 
worthy foundation ior ^avouT^ ^'^l^ » ^ ^<5»Qd bunch 



GAEKISHES, Ac. 115 

of herbs, a small spoonful of salt, eighteen to twenty 
peppercorns and allspice mixed, a bay-leaf, a leek or 
a couple of young green onions, the strained juice 
of a lemon, and 2|oz. of best leaf gelatine ; now stir 
in the broken-up shells and whites of two eggs, 
bring it all very gently to the boil, whisking it a 
little at first to blend the ingredients, and as soon 
as it boils run it through a jelly bag or a clean 
napkin. If not quite clear run it through a second 
time. Be careful not to have the stock or water 
used in jelly making more than warm at first, or it will 
curdle and set the egg whites at once and they will 
not clear the jelly in the least. If chopped jelly be 
needed for decoration, sprinkle a sheet of paper well 
with cold water, lay the jelly on this, and chop it 
with a well wetted knife as fine as possible. 

Next in importance to aspic comes Mayonnaise. 
Of this there are several forms. Ordinary 
mayonnaise is made thus : Put into a basin one raw 
egg yolk, an eggspoonf ul of mustard (or equal parts 
of French and English mustard), a pinch of salt, and 
the same of white pepper ; mix this well together with 
a delicately clean and scalded wooden spoon (whore 
mayonnaise is much used a special spoon should be 
kept for it), adding drop by drop enough good 
salad oil to bring it all to the consistency of butter ; 
now add a teaspoonful or so of best vinegar, either 
plain or flavoured, being careful to keep the sauce 
pretty stiff. These quantities will produce half a 
pint of sauce. If it has to stand, it is advisable 
to add a tablespoonful of absolutely boiling water 
just at the last Thi« mayonnaisQ it ot «. tkJi ^sgSL 

l2 



116 SALADS, SANDWICHES, Ac. 

yellow, but for some purposes a white mayonnaise 
may be needed, in wbich case use the white of 
the egg instead of the yolk, cream instead of oil, 
and strained lemon juice instead of vinegar. Bed 
mayonnaise may be prepared in two ways : To 
some good rich mayonnaise add enough pounded 
and sieved lobster coral to bring it all to a rich 
red tint, adding a little coralline pepper and some 
more mustard. (This sauce should be made in the 
boat it is to be served in, and must be kept as 
cool as possible.) Or, rub four large ripe and well- 
coloured tomatoes through a fine sieve, and incor- 
porate this pur^e with an equal amount of rich 
mayonnaise and a spoonful (the size of this 
depends on taste) of tarragon vinegar. If fresh 
tomatoes cannot be had, use the French Conserve 
de tomates, or the American canned tomato pulp, 
but in this case you may need a drop or two of 
liquid carmine to bring up the colour. Green 
mayonnaise is produced thus : Blanch a few sprajs 
of chervil, parsley, and tarragon, then drain well 
and pound ; incorporate this puree with half a pint 
of mayonnaise, to which you have added a few 
drops of spinach or other vegetable green colour- 
ing, and use. Mayonnaise aspic, a very useful 
garnish, is made by mixing a gill of any of the 
above forms of mayonnaise with half a pint of 
just liquid aspic, and using it as it is on the point 
of setting. For instance, a delicious salad may 
be made from the remains of a cold roast duck 
in this way. Prepare a pint of mayonnaise aspic, 
cut the remains o£ the duck m\.o 'si<&%>t ^eta and 



GARNISHES, &c. 117 

small joints, and mask each of these with aspic 
made with plain mayonnaise, to which you have 
stirred about a tablespoonful of minced olives, a 
little lemon juice, a dash of coralline pepper, and, 
lastly, one-third of a pint of stiffly whipped cream. 
Cover a dish with a layer of well washed and dried 
lettuce, arrange the duck, when the mayonnaise is 
set, neatly on this in a pile, then garnish it 
round with quartered young cabbage lettuces, young 
radishes, quartered hard-boiled eggs, and some 
stoned olives farced with washed and boned fillets of 
anchovy, and serve. 

Sauce Mousseline is another form of mayonnaise 
very useful for eouj^ea glaccs. To make it whip a 
gill of aspic to a stiff froth, then mix into it a gill of 
rich mayonnaise (any of the above will do) and a 
giU of stiffly whipped cream, season with coralline 
pepper, a pinch of caster sugar, and a dessert- 
spoonful of tarragon vinegar. Lastly, there is 
Mousquetaire sauce, a delicious addition to either 
dressed crab or lobster. Mince together finely a 
small handful of chervil and tarragon, a few chives, 
a shallot or two, and two spoonfuls of mustard; stir 
it all well together, working in gradually a little salt 
and pepper, then three tablespoonfuls of best salad 
oil, and a dessertspoonful of good vinegar, till it is 
all well blended. 

Chaufroix Sauces have been so fully treated in 
Series IV. of the *' Queen" Cookery Books (on 
"Entrees") that only a passing allusion can find place 
here. These are easily made by adding half an 
Qunc0 of b^st leaf gelatin^ \{^ ^^^ ^\s>^» <5>v '^^x^ 



118 SALADS, SANDWICHES, Ac. 

« 

freshly made white or brown sauce, Ac, allowing it 
to boil rapidly till reduced a fourth part, and using 
it when on the point of setting. For white sauces 
a gill of thick cream should be stirred into the sauce 
just at the last to improve the colour. To brown 
stock, add loz. of dissolved glaze to the pint of 
sauce in the same way. Any sauce can be stiffened 
in this way, and if it is desired to secure a very 
glazed appearance, brush the objects masked with 
this chaufroix, when the latter is set, with a Httle 
just liquid meat jelly. This will be found a great 
improvement on the ordinary plan of using common 
aspic jelly, the acidity of which only suits dishes for 
which salad or mayonnaise dressings are to be used. 

Olives, — These are rather important factors 
amongst savoury garnishes, whether served plain or 
farced. The latter can, if required, be bought 
ready prepared, in bottles, but it is little or no 
trouble — once the knack is gained — to prepare them 
at home. Choose large and fresh olives, and, if 
necessary, slice off just enough from the stalk end of 
^ach to make them stand firmly, then with a small 
cook's knife, or a penknife, proceed to peel them 
from the stone exactly as if you were peeling an 
apple, only keeping the blade close along by the 
stone so as to take off all the fiesh, leaving the stone 
as bare as possible, in a continuous spiral (see 
illustration), which will go back into its natural 
shape if pressed lightly together. This is called 
" turning " olives. 

Vinegar, — This is a point that demands more 
attention tJw»n it nasally xeceVv^^^Tom^TvXiv^ ^»^^S!>^« 



GARNISHES, &c. 



119 



makera, to whom Tm^;a 
diff eienoesy the nuaneeM 
foreign cooks are absoln 
for young spring salad 
vinaigre pritdanier, ma 
of French red wine yio 
amount of tin ordina 
cress (minced), the sa 
two or three yonng gr 
oomsy and the thinly j 



a F 



r 


t 


I iSLte 




id 


m, of 


1 


? 


ins ice. 


I 


w< 


L will use a 
f a pint 


( 


1 


m the same 
of young 


yoimg t 


. shoots, 




yns, a d 


popper- 



J a. 



d ri of a lemon, till well 




Olitx Pbblbd fob Faboino. 

flavoured. A winter version of this may be pro- 
duced by infusing in half a pint of the same sort of 
vinegar the bruised seeds of mustard and cress, 
celery, and parsley (using about a teaspoonful of 
each), with a clove of garlic and two capsicums. A 
little tarragon vinegar may be added to this if you 
cboose, and, of course, the proportions of the 
different seeds can be varied to suit individual 
tastes. Bemember when using capsicums that the 
9^e4» »nd the piilp should always be ouiitted, imlea^ 



120 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 

you are catering for persons of utterly Mepliisto- 
phelian tastes. Also, it may be as well to obsenre 
that the above vinegars should be kept closely 
stoppered, a few drops, or at most a teaspoonful, of 
them being used for each salad to give piquancy to 
the dressing. Anchovy vinegar again, made by 
steeping six or seven good Gorgona anchovies, a clove 
of garh'c, and a few peppercorns in a pint of the best 
white wine vinegar for a fortnight, is a great 
addition to some forms of mayonnaise, and also for 
many savouries. The same may be said of Curry 
vinegar. Cucumber vinegar, and its imitations, 
hurnet and eyringa vinegar, are also much to be 
commended, but as full directions for these and 
many other vinegars have already been given in 
No. III. of the "Queen'* Cookery Books (on 
" Pickles and Preserves "), they need not be repeated 
here. Lastly, there are two forms of vinegar, one 
English, and one American, that come in very handy 
for all sorts of purposes. The first is Camp vinegar, 
made by addiug half a gill of walnut ketchup, two 
tablespoonfuls of soy, six finely minced anchovies, 
a small and finely minced clove of garlic, and a 
drachm of cayenne to a pint of the best white 
wine vinegar ; this is then corked down and allowed 
to stand for a month, shaking it daily. It is then 
strained off through muslin, bottled off into small 
and very tightly corked and waxed bottles. 
McCarthy's vinegar is said to be the invention of a 
New York hotel-keeper, from whom it takes its 
name. For this, put two tablespoonfuls of Worcester 
^auce into a pint bottle wit\i\iaAi % X.'aX^^^^^^^x&xsX <^\ 



GARNISHES, Ac. 121 

Tabasco, fill up the bottle with fresh tarragon 
yinegar, and cork tightly. This, like anchovj 
vinegar, is excellent, not only for salads, but foi 
savouries, and especially for broiled fish, steak, &c. 

Of Mustards, again, there are a great variety, ami 
a pleasant change may be made by mixing the 
mustard smoothly with any spiced or flavoured 
vinegar to taste; or again, boil about half a tea- 
spoonful each of salt, freshly ground black p<*|>f><r, 
mace, cloves, and a dash of cayenne, with a small 
clove of garlic, in half a pint of good vjn<i^ar till 
this is strongly flavoured ; mix 4oz. or .5oz. ol' 
mustard to a stiff paste with some cold tarraj^on 
vinegar, then strain into it gradually the boilin«< liol, 
spiced vinegar, stirring it as you do so with a h ma II 
red-hot poker, or kitchen skewer. This muHtanI, jl' 
stored in wide-mouthed bottles, and tightly cork<M|, 
will keep for years. 

Salt also needs attention. Perhaps the ni(!<'Hf/ in 
many ways is the well-known Cerebos salt, aH it 
never cakes, but a very nice salt for hoirm <-oii- 
sumption can be produced by sifting togctlirr a 
teaspoonful of best cornflour, or of creme de riz^ and 
a teacupful of finely powdered salt. This miiHt bo 
kept in a dry spot. 

Croutes and Croutons, — Of these there are variouH 
kinds. The large kind used as a socle, or support, 
has already been described, but the small croilten or 
croutons used for garnish or savouries should bo 
prepared thus : Slice down some stale bread about 
one-third to half an inch thick, remove all crust, and 
pyt or stamp out these Q\\ce^ *\5vV> \*xS'5x.\i'^<^^yVvi^^^^ 



122 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &o. 

rounds, squares, &c., as you please, and fry them in 
butter till of a delicate golden brown, evenly but 
not over, coloured. Drain them well in front of the 
fire, or in the mouth of the oven, till quite dry and 
biscuit-crisp. Then use hot or cold. Croutons 
frequently suffer from being cut too thick, in which 
case the centre remains moist and pappy after the 
surface is coloured and crisp ; this does not matter 
so much if they are to be eaten at once, hot, but if 
they have to stand they become soft and greasy, and 
most unpleasant. Always be sure that these 
croutons are thoroughly drained, and so freed from 
grease that they will leave no mark on blotting- 
paper. For household purposes, well clarified 
dripping or marrow fat answers very well for frying 
these, but chefs always advise clarified butter. 
Another way of preparing them is, after shaping 
them, to dip them in good stock till saturated, but 
not pappy, and then lay them in a buttered baking 
tin in the oven till crisp and nicely coloured. These 
are, of course, more savoury than if plainly fried. 
A third plan is this : From slices a half to one inch 
thick stamp or cut out rounds or squares one and a 
half to two inches in diameter, then with a smaller 
cutter, or a knife, mark out an inner circle, or 
square, from a quarter to half an inch inside the 
outer ring, pressing the cutter well down into the 
bread to within a quarter of an inch of the under 
side of the bread ; fry these carefully till of a pale 
gold, then with the point of a small sharp ^life 
lift out the inner ring, remove all moist crumb, and 
fyiBh qS as witl^ pi^eT cTo^\ft^^ \^ ^^\. Wi^jm^ ^a^iii^ 



GARNISHES, &o. 123 

biscuit-crisp. These hollow croutes are sometimes 
called croutea cretisea, but more often croustadea, or 
caissea, 

Biscuifa, Devilled. — These are done in various 
wajs. For instance, butter well either milk or plain 
water biscuits, dust them generously with salt, 
freshly ground black and cayenne pepper, and set 
them in the oven till hot and crisp. Or, melt some 
butter and lay into it as many water biscuits, or 
Bath Olivers, as you please, turning them over and 
over in the butter till they brown ; then lift them 
out, dust plentifully with cayenne and curry powder, 
and serve with any remains of Ijutter poured over 
them. Or, rub up about a tcaspoonful of mustard 
flour with a little salad oil to a smooth paste, then 
work in a tablespoonful of McCarthy's vinegar, 
adding cayenne to taste, and a little salt if needed. 
Spread the biscuits thickly with this paste, and grill 
or toast them till as hot as fire will make them. 

Pastry* — For cassolettes, comets j canots, &c., make 
a paste with 4oz. of fine flour, l|oz. of fresh butter, 
half an egg, a teaspoonful of lemon juice, a pinch 
of salt, and just enough water to bring it all to a 
smooth stiff paste. 

Anchovy, — Rub Joz. of butter into 3oz. of 

fine flour, season with half a teaspoonful of 
Burgess's essence of anchovy, half an egg, a dust of 
cayenne, and a drop or two of carmine (to get the 
paste a pale pink), mix it all to a smooth, stifE paste, 
roll it out fairly thin, stamp it out in rounds or 
squares, put these on a baking tin, prick them well 
with a fo^kf ^4 b?^,^e fift^eix V> \Jw^iCkX,^ \£ccsi^o^'^\sx'?K 



124 SALADS, SANDWICHES, Ac. 

moderate oven till crisp and dry, but mind they do 
not discolour. If to be used for cornets, use one 
whole egg instead of the half, and less water. 

Ohee8e,for Comets. — Rub up together 4oz. 

of fine flour, 2oz. of butter, a little salt and coralline 
pepper ; when thoroughly mixed, work in one whole 
egg, l^oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and just enough 
milk to get it to a smooth stiff paste. Roll it out 
thinly, prick it with a fork, or a pricker, stamp it 
out in rounds (or in squares if to use with 
Pompadour moulds), three to four inches across 
and one-eighth of an inch thick, and use them to 
line some well-buttered cornet moulds, slipping 
another buttered mould into the first one as soon 
as it is lined (to keep the paste in place), and bake 
in a moderate oven for twenty- five to thirty 
minutes till crisp, then slip them off the tins, and 
use when cold. 

Batter Bariols. — ^Have ready some clean boiling 
fat, and plunge the dariol fryer with three moulds 
into this till it is quite hot ; then mask the sides 
and bottoms quickly with frying batter, carefully 
trimming off the superfluous batter round the top 
edge with your finger or a knife, and fry at once 
in the boiling fat till of a nice golden colour ; then 
lift off the cases (when done they should slip off 
quite easily), return them at once to the fat for a 
minute to crisp the insides, and, after draining them 
well, either fill them with whatever ragout, &c., you 
wish to use, or else store them in an air-tight box 
till wanted, as they will keep well for two or three 
da^jfS, and q,re CQUYeni^ut. W \i^^^ x^isA:^. liVy^ 



eA3as:^sa& axl M' 



> 



anT chmfioe 1^ dairkik fihonald braik in the frvini?, 
lift thesi izp £t ^fDGR^ BULsk with a littlo inon^ 
baiter orer tlie «i»dk; BOKMthing it ou li&;htlv, 
return it to ite fat, asd ocwk as before till crisp. 
Frfirn^ B^sHLarfgr Dmri^U. — ^Pat into a Ih>w1 Vvi. 
of fine sif^ flour, tiro wliole raw ^^^^ au<l ono 
and a half ta^i^e^ocaifnls of salad oil, and mix it. 
all to a smoodi, lathes' thick paste, working in 
rather oier a gill <^ oold water, then use to oomI 
the hot fryer pi«ttf thinlj. These battor dnrinlM 
reqnire kna^k, but are well worth the trottltlo o|' 
acqniiing it. Bemember, that for dariol lut(((M'. 
the batter is made with whole unbeaten o^^n, nn<l 
is nsed at onoe, differing in this from onlintu v 
fritter batter, which is always bettt^r for Kliimliiifr, 
and to which the whites of the eg^s wluNktM) in w 
stiff frodi are added just as it is to bo uncuI. 

Pardey. — Of all decorations parsloy Ih on«» ol' Mn» 
commonest, and, it maybe added, ono of ilio nmnl. 
carelessly prepared. To mince par «hy, yfoW wmhIi il, 
pick it free from the stalks, and ])nt it into n pnn 
with some cold salted water, and wh(*n IIiIh jmrI. 
comes to the boil, strain it off and dry i\\o pniplcy 
by wringing it firmly but gently in a olnan v\n\\\ ; 
now gather it well together with tluj fltig«»rH, miuI 
shred it across and across, mincing it as finely h.n 
possible (it cannot be too finely minced), iUon 
gather it up in the comer of a clean cloth and 
hold it under the tap, or in a basin, wringing iiikI 
pressing it till the water running from it Uwwh 
green; it must now be wrung dry again, and will 
then be a bright green duftt. '^^\.^^t%Virj^^\^'i'^^^ 



126 SALADS, SANDWICHES, &c. 

chop properly, and nothing betrays an inferior cook 
more than unblanched and coarsely chopped parsley. 
By the way, very few cooks appear to know that for 
flavouring purposes (only) the stalks are quite as 
p:ood, if not better than the leaves, which are wanted 
for garnish. 

To Fry Parsley, well wash it, picking it over, 
removing all but the smallest stalks, and choosing 
the finest and greenest leaves. Dry the leaves 
very gently in a clean cloth ; when you have done 
frying the dish the parsley is to garnish, draw the 
fat boiler ofE the fire to let it cool for three or four 
minutes, leaving the basket in the hot fat ; now 
drop the parsley into this, and re-heat gently, till 
the leaves are crisp, which they will be in about a 
minute, then lift out, drain well, and use. Be 
careful when dropping the parsley into the fat to 
turn your head aside, for the cold leaves often cause 
the hot fat to spurt up, and this might bum you 
badly. 

Socles. — Mention has already been made of jelly 
borders and bread cro{itons, but beside these there 
are rice borders and white-fat socles, or stands, 
which, though not of general use, yet, on occasions, 
are a great addition to the appearance of a supper or 
ceremonial breakfast table, and are sufficiently easy ti 
prepare to render them available for home use. For 
the rice border, boil, say, lib. of rice in plenty of water 
(half a gallon for lib. of rice is none too much) till it is 
perfectly soft, then drain it well, and pound it to a 
smooth paste in a mortar. When well amalgamated, 
turn it out OJ^ to the pastry slab, and knead it with 



GABNISHES, &c. 127 

joor hands, or work it with a wooden spoon till it is 
a smooth, elastic, and workable paste ; then either 
shape it as it stands with a couple of wooden spoons 
into a round or oval block, trimming this neatly 
with a sharp knife ; or press the rice into anv mould 
to taste, and leave it till firm and hard. The moulds 
should be kept in a cold place to stiffen properly. 
When required for use, turn them out, and cover 
lightly with either plain or fancy butter. M. GoiiftV, 
who advises rice borders especially, recommends 
either a maitre d'hotel or a ravigotte butter, but, of 
course, this is a matter of taste. These socles are 
particularly useful for sandwiches, salades mignonnesy 
&c., and are also in great request for the improvement 
of cold entries, which never look so well if served tlat 
on their dish. For white-fat socles you require a 
wooden mould on which to mount them. The j^lainor 
these are, the better is the taste of the socle. So tj:et 
two round, or oval, blocks of smooth wood, one at 
least a third smaller than the other. To prepare the 
fat for covering, cut up l|lb. of kidney fat (mutton 
for choice), remove every bit of skin or sinew, place 
it in a bowlful of cold water, and let it stand till next 
day. Now drain off the water, and put the fat into a 
delicately clean pan (a fireproof casserole is as nice as 
anything), and render it down very gently over a slow 
fire ; when melted, let it stand for a minute or two, 
then strain it through a hair sieve into a basin ; 
after it has cooled a little, work into it l|lb. of best 
white lard, then melt it all once more, and strain it 
off into a basin to cool. It must now be whipped 
with a very clean wire whisk till it is light and almost 



128 SALADS, SANDWICHES, <feo. 

creamy, and in this state it is used to cover the moulds. 
First put a little of the fat on a baking sheet, aud 
stand the wooden mould on this to keep it firm, then 
apply the fat thickly and evenly, smoothing it with 
a palette knife dipped in hot water, and finishing it 
ofE with a fiat or round ruler (the latter for choice), 
dipped in hot water, to get the surface perfectly level 
and smooth. This block, if left to harden in a cold 
place, will have all the appearance and hardness of 
marble. To remove it from the baking sheet, stand 
the latter over a pan of boiling water just to soften 
the fat under the socle, which may then be lifted off. 
If the second mould is placed on the first, cover it in 
exactly the same way, afiixing it to the under socle, as 
you fastened the latter to the baking sheet, with a 
little semi -melted fat. Of course, these wooden 
blocks can be cut into any shape you please, and the 
fat covering may be chiselled and modnlled into all 
sorts of shapes, but for ordinary purposes the above 
are infinitely the best ; the advantage of these stands 
is that, once made, they last a good long time if 
stored in a cold, dry place, in tins, and only need a 
rub over with a moist cloth to keep them in condition. 
Some cooks, however, prefer a mixture of lloz. of 
best white lard and Toz. white wax, as being more 
durable than the previously given mixture. 



I* 



■z^ 



s 



'^>-JJ 

















^at€TCt«ss, 33 
creusea, l-^ 



130 INDEX. 

HoRS d'CEuvre, 41-47 

Anohois k rimp (or imp4riale), 48 

Caviar k la mignonne, 47 
„ croiites an, 48 

CroMea k la Barlington, 49 

Caonmber, 44 

Figs, 44 

Herrings piokled, to prepare, 43 

Hnitres natnre, 47 
„ an caviar, 47 

Individual, 44, 

Melon, 44 

SardineP, &o., to prepare for, 43-44 

Tartelettea k la Madame, 48 
Jelly, 114 
Mayonnaise, 115 

Aspic, 116 

„ (white), 114-116 

Collie, 34 

Cooked, 4 

de crabe, 13 

de aanmon, 12 

de aoles k I'Agn^s, 10 
„ C^lestine, 10 
„ Cherbonrgeoise, 

Fish, 6 

Green, 116 

Red, 116 

Tomato, 11 

White. 11 
Mnatard, 121 
Olives, to turn, 118 
Pains fourres, 26 

„ 2t la Mirabeau, 36 

Parsley, to fry, 126 

„ to mince, 12.5 
Pastry, ancbovy, 45,1*2.^ 

Bombay dnck, 4^ 







T 

^ an ^tiuy;ipv«()(tv^ ^ 
Clriniwn» ftox ttmud^^vA, \ i 

Waaa:fy IX 

Iamb 4 U Pviut»*MlA»:w, I ^ 
Lobster iw Hii4»h», <i 

Oyster, 1 1 
Scallop. 7 
SuMolii^. 17 

Sandwich MM, IP-Mi 
Abordfion, M7 

&lttMu«M«t. »U 

AlexAiMlm, MM 
Anohovy Arid Mtftf, M(^ 
I, }»«, M^ 

Bigarade, 90 
Batter, 20 



132 INDEX. 

Sandwiches (continued)^ 

Cayiar, 30 

Celery and walnnt, 81 

Cheese, 81 

„ ourried, 31 
„ Gmy^re, 81 

Cod's roe, 31 

Crab (mock), 32 

Cncnmber and tomato^ 32 

Egg, 82 
„ oream, 83 
„ „ and herring, 33 
„ and ohutney, 33 

Fancy, 26-27 

Fish, 33-34 

Foie gras, 34 

Qeorge, 35 

Greyille, 35 

Hors d'oanvre, 46 

Lobster, 35-36 

Milan, 39 

Mirabean, 36 

New York, 36 

Northern, 37 

OUve, 37 

Pickle, 37 

Pompadour, 37 

Princess, 38 

Prince George's, 37 

Prince of Wales's, 38 

Sardine, 33 

Savoury, 39 

Shooting, 25, 39 

Spanish, 39 

Sweet, 28 
Salt to keep in oond\UoTv, VL\ 
Sanoes, CazanoY&, 6^ 

Ohaufroix, 14, 111 



INDEX. 138 



Sanoes for soles, 113 


Horseradish cream, 21, 102 


Mad^re, 


,101 


Monsqnetaire, 117 


Monsseline, 117 


Sayoububs, 


50-51, 83-86 


Anohois k la Bedford, 56 


» 


„ cr^me Pomel, 58 


»f 


„ Dauphin, 56 


»* 


k TEoossaise (Scotoh woodoook), 58 


it 


k I'Indienne (Panah), 58 


99 


d la Madras, 56 


>» 


„ „ aux olives, 56 


1) 


„ Modeme, 57 


}» 


„ Basse (Cans), 58 


}) 


au Caviar, 58 


»» 


en Mayonnaise, 57 


)» 


en Surprise, 60 


tt 


Aigrettes d', 55 


l> 


AUumettes, 56 


>» 


Biscuits d', k la diable, 54 


»> 


„ „ Boyale, 53 


w 


Canapes d', 51 


»» 


„ d la Colmar, 53 


» 


„ k I'Indienne, 52 


» 


„ k la diable, 52 


>* 


„ aux oaufs, 53 


»* 


cro^tes d la Battenberg, 59 


>t 


f, aux olives, 52 


w 


Diablotins d' (devils on horseback), 54 


}> 


Eclairs d', 59 


» 


Orlys d', 52 


M 


Failles, d*, 54 


}» 


,f ft la diable, 54 


» 


„ k I'Eoossaise, 54 


}* 


„ 2t la Yarmouth, 54 


$% 


EiftaoVeft ^^ , t»^ 


%» 


^ V^a»^TK3\x^>^^ 






134 INDEX. 

Sayoubibs (continued) — 

Anohoisy Talmonses d', 54 
Cheese aigrettes, 92 

ft k la HoUandaise, 07 
„ i I'ltaUenne, 97 
„ balls, 91 
,, biscuits, devilled, 94 
,, creams, 93, 98 
„ crab, 95 
„ oroi^tes, 85 
d'Artois, 92 
fritters, 90 
„ macaroni, 88 
„ moulded, 93 
„ mousse, 92 
„ patties, 90 
„ pounded, 89 
„ pudding, 97 
„ rarebit, American, 98 
„ M Irish, 87 

„ „ Welsh, 87 

„ sandwiches, baked, 89 
„ savoury, 96 
„ souffle, 91 

h la diable, 91 
an paprika, 91 
straws, 90 
toasted, 86, 87 
Crab croustades, 81 
„ in the shell, 81 
„ dressed, 82 
„ souffle, iced, 82 
Laitances (see also roes), 70-71 
„ k la diable, 71 
Madras, 73 
Sefton, 72 
an. 2TftA.\iv,71 






» 



» 



QinxQ^pe^tl^ 



>» 



IKD3EX. 

Savoubize TeOKfuMMd^ — 

LaififfinH jhix Iiullitak,T3 
„ enkroHMakis, 74 
„ en papiUottieB, 71 
„ gnitbi«eF, 71 
liO>^3ter A la dnc dTink, 80 
„ roBOolade, 79 
„ tATtaT<e, 77 
cometE a la creme, 78 

„ „ mayomuuse, 105 
curried, iced, 79 
darioles is aspic, 77 
„ dc\ nidd ajid iced, 80 

in the ahell, 80 
„ ponffle, iced, 78 
OrstcTB a la Oazanorai, 69 

a cheral (aifrols on horsc\>aok)» ftA 
blancmange, G7 
devilled, 65 
fritters, 65, 69 
profiteroles, an caviar, 66 
rissolettes, 66 
ronlades, 66 
scalloped, 67, 68 

with tx)mato«n, 6ft 
toast, 68 
Ecep, bloater, on toast, 72 

devilled, and mackerel h<)nea, 72 
herring. 71 
savonry cod'a, 70 
Sardines, 43, 44 

„ ji la maitre d'hAtol, 60 
„ ., Xapolitaino, 65 

„ „ Soubiae, 64 

„ aux olivea, 61 
„ boQchi^ea de, 63 
, an caviar, 63 
„ croOitea d«, k \Bk w^taft^ (\ 1 






9» 

n 



» »» 



>» 


»J 


)) 


1> 


1) 


»» 


1* 


H 


>l 


»l 


» 


t» 


9) 


t9 



136 INDEX. 

Savouries (continvsd) — 
Sardines, ourried, 61 
„ devilled, 61 
eggs, 62 

& la Ben^dictiiie, 62 
k la Gasoonne, 62 
k la Normande, 62 
an jambon, 62 
en papilottes, 63 
en tartines, 63 
omelet, 62 
toast, 64 
Ballettes de merlnche, 75 

„ d*or, 88 
Beignets de merlnche, 77 
Bisonits, devilled, 104, 123 
Bloater, grilled, 83 

„ toast, 84 
Bonoh^es h la Simla, 86 
Canapes an Parmesan, 97 

„ de tomates an Parmesan, 9 
Cassolettes Cazanova, 103 

„ k la Strasbnrg, 103 

Choufleur gratine, 88 
Cornets anx olives, 105 
„ Maximilien, 96 
„ Milanaise, 95, 
„ Portugaise, 94 
Croiites, 99, 112 

„ k TAlbert, 106 
„ k la Berne, 106 
„ „ Clarice, 101 

„ „ Florence, 75 

„ ,, Fran9ai8e, 106 

„ „ Gloucester, 95 

„ Gr^ville, 105 
k Vlcdp^TiaVe, 105 






iiTTrrmEB rcmnmacfil — 

'ImuiBs Ttt- "xiKCrnu i. Jtintitmntf. V^:4 

., 3Eir?iEi}. 7H 
r ?^nfm»4nmg. Hi} 

ZiuJaiamm k ik *Sss^ijie^ $if> 
., ran "rsLsa^oiTJk TO 

mn Mad^n>» 10 1 

Mnahioom 8onf{lt\ t07 
(Enfs ma fromtHft\ DO 
OliTW ^ la St. Auirunilii, tOi 

., „ Nonimiulo, lOi 
Petites oaisBea i\ In Hi. »t»itMi>«, YM 
Petits pains ^ 1a MimlmftUi tttt 
Toast, Bombay, 100 

„ Bloator, 8:i 

„ Craigio, lOU 

^ Onrry, 100 

„ Devonihiro, DO 

,f German, 100 

„ Haddook, 74, 76 

„ Ham or kidnoy, UU 

f, ManoW) lOQ 
I, Shrimp, ^V 

li 



138 



INDEX. 

Savouries {continued)^ 
Tomato cups, 12 

Mayonnaise, 11 

Eice borders, 126-127 
Vinegar, 118 

Anchovy, 120 
Camp, 120 
McCarthy, 120 
Printanier, 119 
White-fat socles, 127 
Zakiiska, 42 




QidburVs 

COCOA 



Absolutely Pure, 

itKrcrtK-f Best. 

TAKE OMR£ when dnnkint! 
Cttfoa lo Iijve Ihr pure aftidc only. 
9& many s<.»-callcd ' Pun: " Couuu 
contain added matter (hal is not only 
unncctsstry. hul lomelimci positively 
harmful 

CADBURY's COCOA 

IS ABSoiuuu rvn. 

and untampcfed with, and can be 
taken w.lh the grcalc»i benfit tn 
Childhood, m Voullv Of in Old A^ 

■• WMottI ncreption tkt mast 
popalar Coma oiiheiiay; tw 
urf^iad a givf it Ihe iUghaf 
prade. fvr Nimm/Mentlhcn 
o nothing saptnor id be 
/#oflJ" MunicAi. Maomuh 

CADBURr* Ciicw a a Perfcci Food. 



