TX 715 
.P165 
Copy 1 





Class _T_><aASL 
Book ■ \ \^b 



fojyriglit}!!'. 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 




;iiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiminmiiin; 



Library or jo^foritss 
APR 24 lyub 

3cDyrignc ttiiry 
COPY 3. 



,^^ 




Entered according to Act of 
Congress' in the year 1905, by 
cArmour andCompanyt 
in Office of the Librarian 
of Congress at Washington 





following recipes were compiled by Mrs. 
Ida M. Palmer, who has personally tested 
each (»f them a number of times in her 
work of demonstrating the value of 
Armour's Extract of Beef for all cul- 
inary and household purposes. The personal commen- 
dation upon the delicious flavor and tempting appearance 
of her dishes from ladies in all parts of the United States 
and Canada has prompted us to publish a few of the 
favorite recipes. They are easily and economically 
prepared, and are intended as suggestions to enable 
those who are not familiar with the use of Armour's 
Extract of Beef as a culinary article to get the best 
possible results from their experiments. Housekeepers 
or their cooks may depend upon these recipes producing 
satisfactory dishes regardless of how little they may 
know of preparing soups, sauces, etc. 

ARMOUR & COMPANY 
CHICAGO 




GOOD SOUP is not so difficult to make as it at first 
appears. The beginner is often discouraged at the 
number of ingredients the recipe calls for, particularly 
the old-time formula beginning, "Take a Shin of 
Beef." Gouffe says that beef broth is the soul of domestic cookery ; 
but how to get that "soul" out of the shin of beef has proved a 
difficult problem to many housekeepers and a seeming impossibility to 
more than a few cooks. Science, however, has kept pace with the 
demands for more rational feeding and eating, and has succeeded in 
concentrating the " soul" of the shin of beef into small pots in the form 
of Armour's Extract of Beef. 

With a jar of Armour's Solid, or a bottle of Armour's Fluid Extract 
of Beef at hand, the cook has, without time or trouble, and with even 
less expense, the basis of all thick or thin soup. By the addition of the 
various vegetables, flavorings, etc., to "stock" made with Armour's 
Extract of Beef, a wholesome soup may be quickly and economically 
prepared. 

SUPPLIES 

With but a small outlay one may keep a supply of what is essential 
for the making of a good soup. Winter vegetables such as turnips, 
carrots, onions, and celery (the outer stalks of celery —often not suitable 
for serving) may be used for soups. When celery is expensive, celery 
salt may be substituted with fairly satisfactory results. Sweet herbs 
such as thyme, savory, and marjoram, bay leaves, spices, including 
cloves, allspice, whole pepper, and stick cinnamon should always be 
kept on hand. These seasonings, with the addition of salt, pepper and 
parsley, are the essential flavorings for all soups. Flour, corn-starch, 
arrowroot, tapioca, sago, pearl barley, rice, bread, or eggs are added to 
give consistency and nourishment. 



The Stock, or. rather, the Basis of all Soups 

Use Armour's Extract of Beef in quantities indicated as follows: 

When a clear soup, such as bouillon, rice, or spaghetti, is to be 
made, take one teaspoonful of Armour's Extract of Beef to every quart 
of water. 

Soups that have a stock of their own require but one-fourth of a 
teaspoonful of the Extract to a quart of water, 

When used for puree, bisques, or those soups with substance or body 
to them, take one-half teaspoonful of Armour's Extract of Beef to every 
quart of water. 



Exact measurements of the required seasonings can not be given, as 
the success or failure of all soups and sauces depends largely on their 
being properly seasoned. As a general rule, add salt until the soup is 
briglit-tasting, but not salty; pepper, to the brink of pungency — giving 
the tone of warmth, not the note of burning. 



How to Bind Soups 

Cream soups and purees, if allowed to stand, separate unless bound 
together. To bind a soup, melt butter, and when bubbling add an equal 
quantity of flour. When well mixed, add to boiling soup and stir 
constantly. 




e>TJ']bI'N7¥'R4Vj TT'R,IWJCB]E:, < 

Brown Soup Stock 

Three tablespoonfuls Armour's Extract of Beef 

3 quarts cold water 

1 sprig marjoram 

Vi teaspoonful pepper 

2 sprigs parsley 

4 cloves 
V2 bay leaf 

3 sprigs thyme 

1 tablespoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 

^2 cup each of carrots, turnips, onions, and celery, cut in dices 

DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Melt tlie butter, add the onion, and brown; then add the vegetaloles 
and seasonings to cold water; cover and cook slowly 1 hour; strain care- 
fully and while hot add the Beef Extract, stirring until it is thoroughly 
dissolved. Add more salt and pepper, if necessary. Cool as quickly as 
possible. 

This stock is used for a number of soups and should be made in con- 
siderable quantities and kept in a cool place until it is all used. 



Alphabet Soup 

One teaspoonful Armour's Extract of Beef 

1 quart water 
\Vi tablespoonfuls butter 
Vq. bay leaf 
Vt. teaspoonful salt 
1 teaspoonful chopped onion 

1 teaspoonful flour 
V& teaspoonful paprika 

2 tablespoonfuls alphabets 



•DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Dissolve Extract of Beef in water; add onion and bay leaf. Cook 
10 minutes. Then add butter and flour mixed together, stirring con- 
stantly. Let boil, strain, add alphabets. Cook 20 minutes. Season and 
serve. 

11 



Beef Bouillon 



Three teaspoonfuls Armour's Extract of Beef 

2 quarts cold water 

1 sprig parsley 

1 tablespoonful salt 
^2 bay leaf 
M tablespoonful whole pepper 

1 tablespoonful butter 
li cup each of carrots, onions, and celery, cut in dices 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Take the water boiling hot and add the Extract, vegetables, and 
seasonings; cook 30 minutes; strain and serve in bouillon cups. 



Iced Bouillon 

Flavor beef bouillon with a small quantity t>f sherry or Madeira 
wine, chill and serve cold. 



Pea Soup 



One teaspoonful Armour's Extract of Beef 

1 can peas 

1 tablespoonful sugar 

1 pint cold w^ater 
\i teaspoonful paprika 

1 tablespoonful minced onion 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 
1 tablespoonful flour 

salt and celery salt 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 



Drain peas from their liquor, add sugar, onion, and cold water; let 
simmer 20 minutes; then rub through a sieve, re-heat, add Extract of 
Beef, and thicken with butter and flour mixed together. Season and serve. 

12 



Cream of Celery Soup 



One cup of stock made from Armour's Extract of Beef 
3 cups celery, cut in inch pieces 

2 cups boiling water 

1 slice of onion 

3 tablespoonfuls flour 

2 cups milk 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 
salt and pepper 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Parboil celery in water 10 minutes ; drain ; add stock ; cook until 
celery is soft and rub through sieve. Scald onion in milk ; remove 
onion ; add milk to stock ; bind with butter and flour ; season with salt 
and pepper 



Easy Vegetable Soup 



Two teaspoonfuls Armour's Extract of Beef 

2 quarts w^ater 
li cup carrots 

1 cup potatoes 

14 onion, chopped fine 
14 cup celery 

3 tablespoonfuls tomatoes 
14 tablespoonful parsley 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 
}4 bay leaf 

li cup rice 

salt and pepper 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 



Chop vegetables and add with rice to water with salt ; cook until 
tender (about 30 minutes); then add Extract of Beef, parsley, bay leaf, 
and seasonings. Armour's Tomato Bouillon may be used in place of 
tomatoes — 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls Tomato Bouillon to each quart of soup. 

13 



Macaroni Soup 



One quart Brown Stock, made from Armour's Extract of Beef 
K cup macaroni, broken in pieces 
salt and pepper 

DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Cook macaroni in boiling salted water until soft ; drain well and add 

to stock heated to boiling point. Season with salt and pepper and serve. 

Spaghetti or other Italian pastes may be substituted for macaroni. 



Tomato Soup 



Two teaspoonfuls Armour's Extract of Beef 
1 can tomatoes 

1 quart water 
bit of bay leaf 

2 cloves 

1 teaspoonful paprika 
1 tablespoonful sugar 

1 teaspoonful salt 
Va teaspoonful soda 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 
2 tablespoonfuls flour 

1 teaspoonful finely chopped onion 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 



Strain the tomatoes, add the water, and cook 20 minutes ; add soda, 
salt, sugar, and Extract of Beef ; bring to boil on quick fire ; bind with 
butter and flour ; add seasonings. Serve with croutons. 



Turkey Soup 

Break turkey carcass in pieces, removing all stuffing; simmer in 
water 2 hours with a slice of onion and a piece of celery ; remove from 
fire and strain; then add one-half teaspoonful Armour' s Extract of Beef. 
Cook 2 tablespoonfuls rice in boiling salted water for 15 minutes, drain, 
and add to the soup ; cook for 10 minutes ; season and serve. 

14 



{^ui^iwj¥i^X^7T7^iw:kb£^ ^ 



Ox-Tail Soup 



Five cups Brown Stock, made from Armour's Extract of Beef 

1 small ox -tail 

J^ cup each of carrots, turnips, onions, and celery, cut in small piece* 
Yz teaspoonful salt 
/i cup Madeira wine 

1 teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce 

1 teaspoonful lemon juice 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Cut ox-tail in small pieces, wash, drain, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dredge with flour, and fry in butter 10 minutes. Add to 
stock and simmer 1 hour. Then add vegetables which liave been 
parboiled 20 minutes and simmer until vegetables are soft. Add salt, 
pepper, wine, Worcestershire sauce, and lemon juice. 



Potato Soup 



One teaspoonful Armour's Extract of Beef 
3 potatoes 
1 quart water 

1 pint milk 

2 slices onion, minced 

1 teaspoonful parsley, chopped 
.% teaspoonfuls salt 

li teaspoonful celery salt 
J4 teaspoonful paprika 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 
1 tablespoonful flour 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 



Cook potatoes in boiling salted water; when soft rub through a 
sieve; scald with onion, add milk slowly to potatoes. Melt half the 
butter, add flour; stir until well mixed; then stir into boiling soup. Let 
boil up, add Extract of Beef, and remaining butter, salt, celery salt, 
paprika, and parsley last. 

15 



Potage a la Creole 



One teaspoonful Armour's Extract of Beef 
1 quart cold water 

1 pint strained tomatoes 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 
K saltspoonful paprika 
Vz cup rice 

1 tablespoonful finely chopped onion 

1 teaspoonful salt 
V2 bay leaf 
M teaspoonful celery salt 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 



Cook the rice and the onion in 1 quart salted water; when rice is 
done add the strained tomatoes, bring to boil, then add Extract of Beef. 
Bind with butter and tlour cooked together; add seasonings and serve. 



Corn Chowder 



One- half teaspoonful Armour's Extract of Beef 
1 can corn 

4 cups potatoes, cut in K-inch slices 
1 % inch cube salt fat pork 
1 small sliced onion 
4 cups scalded milk 
8 common crackers 
3 tablespoonfuls butter 
salt and pepper 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Cut pork in small pieces and fry out. Add onion and cook 5 min- 
utes, stirring often to prevent burning. Strain fat into a stew-pan. 
Parboil potatoes 5 minutes in boiling water to cover; drain and add 
potatoes to fat; then add two cups of boiling water. Cook until potatoes 
are soft, add corn and milk: then heat to boiling point. Season with 
salt and pepper. Add Extract of Beef, butter and crackers, split and 
soaked in enough milk to moisten. Remove crackers, turn chowder 
into a tureen, and put crackers on top. 

16 



Croutons 

Take a slice of stale bread, remove the crust, cut the bread into 
cubes about half an inch in size and fry briskly in a small quantity of 
butter (about enough to cover bottom of fr>'ing pan) until the cubes turn 
a nice brown color. Take them out with a skimmer and throw them 
into the soup when serving. 



Croquettes of Odds and Ends 

"With Armour's Extract of Beef 

These are made of any scraps or bits of good food that happen to be 
left over from one or more meals, but in such quantities that they can 
not be utilized separately. For example: A couple of spoonfuls of 
frizzled beef and cream; the lean meat of a mutton chop; 1 spoonful 
of minced beef; 2 cold hard-boiled eggs; a little cold chopped potato; a 
few slices of cold chicken. One or more of these, well chopped and 
seasoned, mixed with 1 raw egg, a little flour, butter, and stock made 
from Armour's Extract of Beef, then made in the form of croquettes 
and browned well in a frying pan or griddle and served on small squares 
of buttered toast, will surprise housekeepers what a delicious addition 
these offer for the breakfast or luncheon, as will also the small cost of 
preparing. 



17 




^4. 





INXE the days of Madame de Stael the 
cliafing dish has steadily grown in 
IX)pularity. At one time it was looked 
up<jn as a luxury, a fad of the fashion- 
ables; but as its fame grew, not only 
fur its dainty and t<x»thsome dishes, but 
as an economical and convenient way of entertaining, 
it has come into general use, until today the majority 
of homes have one or more chafing dishes. 

The secret of success with the chafing dish depends 
largely up<3n the careful attention to details and prepa- 
ration. The ingredients should be measured and mixed, 
and all supplies placed in attractive readiness about the 
tray, as it is the rapidity of cooking which makes the 
dishes so much better v/hen done in the chafing dish. 

The following recipes are carefully prepared, and the 
novice, as well as tlie artist of experience, may depend 
upon satisfactory- results if proportions and directions are 
followed. 



Welsh Rarebit 



One-half teaspoonful Armour's Extract of Beef 
Iji pounds Ne^v York Cream Cheese 

2 eggs 

% cup cream or beer 

yi saltspoonful paprika 
salt to taste 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 



Cut the cheese into small pieces; put the cream or beer in dish over 
hot water pan; as soon as hot, add the cheese. Stir until melted, then 
add the eggs, well beaten, and the Extract of Beef, first dissolving the 
Extract in one tablespoonful of water. Season and serve on hot crackers 
or toast. 



Golden Buck 



One-half teaspoonful Armour's Extract of Beef 

2 cups grated cheese 
% teaspoonful salt 

1 cup milk 

Ji teaspoonful mustard 
% teaspoonful paprika 

6 squares buttered toast 

6 poached eggs 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 



Boil the milk in a granite sauce-pan; add the clieese, mustard, salt, 
and paprika; stir constantly until the cheese is melted. Have ready 
the toast: pour enough of the cheese over each piece to cover it: place 
a carefully poached egg on the top of each piece; dust lightly over with 
pepper and salt and serve immediately. 

20 



Lobster a la Newburg 

One-fourth teaspoonful Armour's Extract of Beef 
2 pounds lobster 
M cup butter 
M teaspoonful salt 
fe'w grains paprika 
slight grating nutmeg 
1 tablespoonful sherry 
1 tablespoonful brandy 
Yi cup thin cream 
yolks of 2 eggs 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Remove lobster meat from shell and cut into small pieces. Melt 
butter, add lobster, and cook 3 minutes. Add seasoning and wine; C(X)k: 
1 minute. Then add cream, Extract of Beef, and yolks of eggs, slightly 
beaten. Stir until thickened. Serve with toast. 



Creamed Lobster 



One- half teaspoonful Armour's Extract of Beef 

1 can lobster 

I tablespoonful flour 
Vk teaspoonful paprika 

1 pint cream 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 
Yi teaspoonful salt 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 



Melt butter in chafing dish; add flour, stirring constantly. Add 
cream and let it cook until it begins to thicken. Add Extract of Beef 
(dissolved). Season and add lobster and heat slowly. Serve with 
brown bread or toast. 

21 



{^TIT^IWn'R^y'JITl^I'N'lCJbE^ < 



Eggs a la Creme 

One-half teaspoonful Armour's Extract of Beef 

6 eggs 

1 tablespoonful butter 
^ pint milk 

1 tablespoonful flour 
Yi teaspoonful salt 
pepper to taste 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Boil the eggs 15 minutes; remove the shells and cut them in halves 
crosswise. Slice a little off the bottom to make them stand. Put the 
butter in a frying pan to melt, then add the flour. Mix until smooth, 
add the milk, and stir constantly until it boils. Add the Extract of 
Beef (previously dissolved), salt and pepper. Stand the eggs on a heated 
platter; pour the sauce over and around them. Serve very hot. 



Mock Mince Pie 



One- half teaspoonful Armour's Extract of Beef 
4 common crackers, rolled 
1^ cups sugar 
1 cup molasses 
Vi cup lemon juice or vinegar 

1 cup raisins, seeded and chopped 
K cup butter 

2 eggs well beaten 
spices 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 



Mix ingredients in order given, first dissolving Extract of Beef in 
one-third cup boiling water. Add spices to taste. Bake between crusts. 
This quantity will make two pies. 



22 



Stewed Mushrooms 

Wash one-half pound mushrooms. Remove stems, scrape, and cut 
in pieces. Peel caps and break in pieces. Melt 3 tablespoonfuls of 
butter in chafing dish; add mushrooms. Cook 2 minutes; sprinkle with 
salt and pepper; dredge with flour, and add one-half cup of Brown Soup 
Stock made with Armour's Extract of Beef. 

Cook slowly 5 minutes and serve on toast. 



Fricassee of Dried Beef 



One-fourth teaspoonful Armour's Extract of Beef 
1 cupful dried beef, chopped fine 

1 tablespoon ful butter 
% pint milk 

2 eggs 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Melt the butter in the milk in chafing dish. Add the Extract of Beef, 
and the beef and cook about 6 minutes. Add the beaten eggs slowly, 
and stir until the sauce is thick. Serve on toast or fried bread. 



English Monkey 



One-half teaspoonful Armour's Extract of Beef 

1 cup stale bread crumbs 

1 cup of milk 
% cup fresh cheese cut in pieces 

1 tablespoonful butter 

1 egg 
salt and paprika 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 



S .k bread crumbs 15 minutes in milk; melt butter in chafing dish 
r'd add cheese; when cheese has melted, add soaked crumbs, Extract 
of Beef, and egg — slightly beaten. Season, cook 3 minutes, and pour 
over toasted crackers. 

23 



Shredded Ham with Currant Jelly 

One-quarter teaspoonful Armour's Extract of Beef 
Vz tablespoonful butter 
10 grains paprika 
Vi cup currant jelly 
"% cup sherry wine 
1 cup cold cooked ham. cut in small strips 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Melt butter and currant jelly in the chafing dish; add Extract of 
Beef, paprika, wine, and ham. Simmer 5 minutes. 



Shrimps a la Creole 



One cup Bro'wn Soup Stock made from Armour's Extract of Beef 
Yz pint shrimps 

1 teaspoonful minced onion 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 
Vi teaspoonful salt 

1 cup strained tomato juice 
1 teaspoonful chopped parsley 
1 tablespoonful flour 
V2 saltspoonful paprika 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Prepare the shrimps by rinsing, draining and cutting in pieces; 
brown the onion in butter; add the flour, stirring constantly, and add 
the stock and tomato juice. When the sauce begins to thicken, add the 
shrimps, parsley, and seasoning; cook until shrimps are heated through. 

24 



{^U'BI'NTll^^JITl^I'N-ICBEs < 



Shrimp "Wiggle 



One-half teaspoonful Armour's Extract of Beef 
Vz teaspoonful salt 

4 tablespoonfuls butter 
1 Vi cups milk 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 
Vi teaspoonful paprika 

1 cup shrimps 

1 cup canned peas 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 



Melt butter and add flour, with salt and paprika, stirring- constantly; 
then pour on gradually the milk as soon as sauce thickens. Add Extract 
of Beef, and shrimps broken in pieces, and the peas drained from their 
liquor. 



Oyster Pan Toast 



One-fourth teaspoonful Armour's Extract of Beef 
1 dozen large oysters 
1 tablespoonful butter 

1 cup oyster juice 

2 slices toast 
salt and pepper 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Melt butter in the chafing dish. As it creams add oysters and juice 
with Extract of Beef. Season with salt and pepper. Cover and cook 
2 minutes. Serve on hot toast, moistened with oyster juice. 




S selected and concentrated Asparagus 
juice, retaining all the flavor of fresh 
Asparagus, and Armour's Extract of 
Beef. It is intended to be used for 
basting fowl and game of all kinds, and 
for seasoning, as well as making a 
delicious hot drink. 

For Basting — Use one tablespoonful of Asparox to a 
cup of hot water and baste frequently while cooking. 
The more frequently the fowl is basted, the more tender, 
juicy and high-flavored the meat will be. 

For Sauces, Entrees, Ragouts, Etc. — One or more 
teaspoonfuls of Asparox, thoroughly stirred into the 
dish just before removing from the fire, imparts an 
agreeable piquant flavor. 

For Salads — One or more teaspoonfuls in the salad 
dressing gives an appetizing flavor and aids in its 
digestion. 

As a Hot Drink — Use one or more teaspoonfuls to 
a cup of boiling water and add a half-ounce of rich milk 
or cream, and salt or pepper to season. 



27 



Veal Croquettes 



2 cups cold cooked veal, chopped 
Y2 teaspoonful salt 
Yi teaspoonful white pepper 
volk, of 1 egg 
few grains paprika 
few drops onion juice 
1 cup Thick White Sauce 

DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Cool, shape into croquettes, crumb and fry. 



To Make Thick White Sauce 

Three teaspoonfuls Armour's Asparox 
1 cup milk 
J-3 cup flour 
li teaspoonful salt 
few^ grains paprika 

DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 



Place butter in saucepan; stir until melted and bubbling. Add 
flour mixed with seasonings, and stir until thoroughly blended. Pour 
on gradually the milk, adding about one-third at a time, stirring 
until well mixed; then beat until smooth. 



Cream Toast, with Asparox 

One tablespoonful Armour's Asparox 
1 tablespoonful butter 
1 scant teaspoonful flour 
1 pint cream or rich milk 
salt and pepper 

DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Let milk come to a boil. Add butter and flour mixed together, 

then Asparox, and salt and pepper. Bring to a boil, then pour over 

freshly toasted bread. 

28 



e>TI'JbI'Nj¥J^'Y77T7^IWICBE^ ^ 



Cream of Asparox 



Two tablespoon fuls Armour's Asparox 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 

1 quart milk 
Vz teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful flour 

1 pinch of celery salt 
M teaspoonful paprika 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 



Melt butter; add flour, stirring thoroughly. Add milk and bring 
to boil. Then add the Asparox and seasoning. May be served with 



croutons. 



Murray Hill Potatoes (Ala Asparox) 

Cut 4 cold boiled potatoes and 6 hard boiled eggs in one-fourth inch 
slices. Put layer of potatoes in buttered baking dish; sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Cover with layer of eggs, repeat, and pour over 2 
cups of Sauce Asparox. Cover with buttered cracker crumbs and bake 
until crumbs are brown. 



Sauce Asparox 

One tablespoonful Armour'3 Asparox 
1 pint cream or rich milk 

Wi tablespoonfuls butter 
1 tablespoonful flour 

pinch of salt and pepper 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Heat milk, add butter and flour stirred together. Then add Asparox 
and boil. Season to taste. 

29 



Tl^IWJCBE^ 



Escalloped Fish 



One cup Sauce Asparox 

1 li cups cold white fish 

Yz cup buttered cracker crumbs 

salt and pepper 

sprig of parsley 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 



Covei- bottom of dish with one-half the fisli. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, ^'^id pour over one-lialf the sauce. Repeat. Cover with crumbs 
and bak*^ in hot oven until crumbs are brown. 




30 



Appropriate Sauces for Serving with — 

Roast Beef / Tomato Catsup. 

I Grated Horse-radish. 

Roast Mutton Stewed Gooseberries. 

Roast Lamb Mint Sauce. 

Roast Pork Apple Sauce. 

Roast Turkey f Cranberry or Celery. 

i Plum or Grape Sauce. 

Roast Chicken Currant Jelly. 

Boiled Turkey Oyster Sauce. 

Broiled Steak Mushrooms— Fried Onions. 

Pigeon Pie Mushroom Sauce. 

Roast Goose Apple Sauce. 

Fried Salmon Egg Sauce. 

Broiled Mackerel Stewed Gooseberries. 

Boiled or Baked Fish . . ) i^'^i^^ Cream Sauce. 

I Drawn Butter Sauce. 




^1 



y<r 




S A combination of all that is best in 
fresh ripe tomatoes, spices, herbs, and 
meat, highly concentrated and delicious- 
ly seasoned. It may be used as a 
relish fur vegetables, meat and fish, or 
as a stock for making a rich tomato 
soup or refreshing bouillon. Armour's Tomato 
Bouillon supplies tomatoes in a concentrated form for 
culinary uses. It saves the time and trouble of preparing 
canned or fresh tomatoes for seasoning purposes. It 
will keep indefinitely if container is kept corked, and is 
pure and wholesome. 



33 



e>'UlbIjN'n'R3Y7IT'I^I'N:KBEs < 



Suggestions for Using 

ARMOUR'S 
TOMATO BOUILLON 



Tomato Bouillon 

Two teaspoonfuls Armour's Tomato Bouillon 
^i pint boiling -water or hot milk 
salt and pepper to season 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Serve in bouillon cups with saltine wafers. When baking beans 
add a little of Armour's Tomato Bouillon and rote the fine flavor. 



Baked Fish 

Take one-third cup of Armour's Tomato Bouillon. Place in pan 
with fish. Add a slice of onion and parsley and baste often while fish 
is cooking. 



Oyster Cocktail 

Take 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice with half cup of Tomato 
Bouillon. Season with salt, pepper, and tabasco. Add 1 pint of small 
oysters, and chill thoroughly before serving. 

34 



z 



Sardines a la Creole 

Drain choice sardines and lay on strips of toast. Partially cover 
with Tomato Bouillon and grated cheese, and brown in a hot oven 



Tomato Puree 



One-half cup Armour's Tomato Bouillon 
2 tablespoonfuls butter 

1 pint milk 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 
salt and pepper 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 



Melt the butter, add the flour and stir. Add the milk and cook until 
creamy. Then add Tomato Bouillon and season. Serve with croutons. 



Tomato Sauce 



One cup Armour's Tomato Bouillon 

1 teaspoonful minced onion 

1 tablespoonful flour 

1 tablespoonful butter 
Yo. teaspoonful salt 

1 teaspoonful chopped parsley 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 



Brown the onion in the butter, add the flour and thoroughly brown. 
Add the Tomato Bouillon and parsley. Cook until it thickens. 

35 



Molasses Cookies 



One egg 
1 cup molasses 
1 tabiespoonful ginger 
/3 cup hot ■water 
1 cup sugar, bro'wn 
I cup shortening, butter and lard 
1 tabiespoonful soda 
1 tabiespoonful vinegar 
a pinch of salt 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 



Stir egg and sugar to a cream. Add molasses, shortening, and 
ginger, stirring all together. Dissolve soda in hot water and add. Put 
in vinegar last thing before flour. Mix as stiff as sugar cookies. 



Wheat Muffins 



Two cups flour 
14 teaspoonful salt 
3 tablespoonfuls melted butter 

1 to 1 /i cups milk 

2 teaspoonfuls baking pow^der 
2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

1 egg 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 



Sift together thoroughly, flour, salt, and baking powder. Then add, 
well beaten together, egg, sugar, melted butter, and milk. Stir well. 
Bake quickly. (20 minutes.) 



Marguerites 



Whites of 2 eggs 
1 cup chopped pecans 
1 cup pulverized sug^ar 
1 teaspoonful vanilla 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Whites of eggs beaten stiff. Add sugar, stirring well, then pecans 
and vanilla, stirring all together. Spread the mixture on fresh zephyr- 
ettes, and brown slowly in the oven. 



Brown Bread 



. /i2 cups Graham flour 
14 cup wheat flour 
li cup corn meal 
H cup molasses 
1 teaspoonful salt 
I teaspoonful soda 
% cups sweet milk 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Dissolve soda in milk. Mix dry ingredients and sift. Add molasses 
and milk. Stir until well mixed. Turn into a buttered mold and 
steam 2 hours. 



Egfgs in Cases 

Break 5 eggs and leave the yolks in half of the shell, taking care to 
keep them unbroken. Beat whites until very stiff and arrange on a 
buttered platter. Make hollows in the whites and drop a yolk in each 
nest thus made. Dredge with salt and paprika, put in a bit of butter 
on each yolk, and bake in a moderate oven till set (from 5 to 8 minutes). 
Garnish with parsley and serve from dish in which they are cooked. 

37 



Snickadoodle 



Two cups sugar 
^A cup butter 
3 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

1 cup milk 
3 cups flour 

2 eggs 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 



Stir butter and sugar to a cream; add milk, then flour well sifted 
with baking powder. Eggs unbeaten put in last thing. Sugar and 
cinnamon sprinkled on top. Use large tins and spread thin. 



Aspic Jelly 

For garnishing Salads, Game, and Entrees, 
and for the Invalid and Convalescent 

One teaspoonful Armour's Extract of Beef 
Vz package acidulated gelatine 
I pint hot w^ater 

1 cup cold w^ater 
Vz cup sherry w^ine 

2 teaspoonfuls sugar 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Cover gelatine with cold water; let stand 5 minutes. Then add hot 
Waaler, sugar, and wine. Strain and put into mold until cold. 



38 



2 rounding or 4 even teaspoonfuls of baking powder to 1 quart nf tlour. 

1 teaspoonful of flavoring extract to 1 quart custard. 

1 teaspoonful of soda to 1 pint sour milk. 

1 teaspoonful of Armour's Extract of Beef to 1 quart hot water. 

1 teaspoonful of mixed herbs to 1 quart soup stock. 

1 teaspoonful soda to 1 cup molasses. 

% teaspoonful of Armour's Extract of Beef to 1 cup hot water. 

1 teaspoonful of salt to 1 quart of soup stock or 2 quarts of flour. 

1 tablespoonful of each chopped vegetable to 1 quart soup stock. 

1 teaspoonful or more, to suit the taste, of Armour's Tomato Bouillon. 

1 teaspoonful or more, to suit the taste, of Armour's Asparox. 




39 




**See that the jar is in a blue carton '* 




S not an Extract of Beef. The latter is a 
culinary article for making^soui)S, sauces, 
etc., while Soluble Beef is a food for 
the invalid and convalescent. 

With Soluble Beef a more nourishing 
bn»th may be made than it is i)ossil)Ie 
to make from fresh meat by the usual household methods. 
One teaspoonful of Soluble Beef is ecjual in nutriment to 
from 10 to 20 teaspoonfuls of beef juice. 

Soluble Beef is packed in small opal jars, similar to 
Hie one used for Extract t»f Beef, but the 2-oz. and 4-oz. 
sizes are in a blue carton. It is designed especially 
as a food for the invalid and convalescent, particularly 
for those suffering from affections of the stomach and 
bowels, (jr of low vitality. It will keep indefinitely in 
any climate, and may be taken as desired at any time. 
Care, however, should be exercised not to use too great 
a quantity and thereby impart an apparent bitterness 
to the broth, and to properly season it before serving. 



{^IJJ^Il^TI'RSYTITl^I'NJCBEs < 



Beef Tea 

Nourishing 



One-fourth teaspoonful Armour's Soluble Beef 
1 cup hot water 
salt and pepper to taste 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 



Take the water at its first boil, add the Soluble Beef and stir until 
thoroughly dissolved. Season and serve. 



Frozen Beef Tea 

An Appetizing Dish for Feverish Invalids 

To a cup of the above Beef Tea add a small quantity of French gela- 
tine, previously dissolved in a tablespoonful of water, and set on ice 
until jellied. Serve cold with salt and pepper to taste. 



Celeried Beef Tea 



One-half teaspoonful Armour's Soluble Beef 
2 tablespoonfuls chopped celery- 
salt 
2 cups water 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 



Clean and cook the celery in salted water until tender. Strain. Add 
Soluble Beef and season. A little milk or cream can be used if desired. 

42 



{^IJ'blWTT'RsYTIT'RsI'NlCJbEs ^ 



Rice Water 



One-half teaspoonful Armour's Soluble Beef 
2 tablespoonfuls rice 
2 cups cold water 

milk or cream 

salt and pepper 

DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Pick over rice and wash, add to water and boil until tender; strain; 
add Soluble Beef, stirring until dissolved; season and re-heat. A half 
inch piece of stick cinnamon may be cooked with rice, and will assist in 
reducing a laxative condition. Add milk or cream if desired. 



Egg-nog 



One-quarter teaspoonful Armour's Soluble Beef 
1 <^ti 
% cup milk. 

1 tablespoonful sugar 

2 tablespoonfuls wine 

1 tablespoonful brandy 
salt 

DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Beat eggs slightly; add pinch of salt, sugar, and wine. Mix thor- 
oughly; add milk, first dissolving Soluble Beef in milk. Strain. Wine 
may be omitted and a very slight grating of nutmeg used. 

Albutnenized Milk 

For Invalids and Convalescents 

One-quarter teaspoonful Armour's Soluble Beet 
1 cup milk 

white of 1 egg 

DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Put milk in tumbler. Dissolve Soluble Beef in a small quantity of 
warm water, add, with white of ^%%, and shake thoroughly until v.ell 
mixed. A small pinch of salt can be added last. 

43 



e>Ul5l'N7l'R3YTIT'^I'NTCBE^ < 



Cocoa Cordial 

Strengthening and Sustaining 



One-quarter teaspoonful Armour's Soluble Beef 

1 teaspoonful cocoa 

1 teaspoonful sugar 

Vz cup boiling -water 
IH tablespoonfuls port wine 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 



Mix cocoa and sugar. Add enough of the water X.<^ form a paste. 
Stir in remainder of water and Sohible Beef and boil 1 minute. Then 
add wine and serve hot. Useful in cases of chill or exhaustion. 



Wine Jelly 

A Nutritious and Appetizing Food for Invalids 

One-half teaspoonful Armour's Soluble Beef 
K package gelatine 

1 cup boiling water 

1 tablespoonful sugar 
Va cup cold water 
V2 cup sherry wine 
juice of half a lemon 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Cover the gelatine with cold water, and let stand 30 minutes. Dis- 
solve the Soluble Beef and sugar in hot water, and pour over gelatine, 
stirring until dissolved. Strain, and add wine and lemon juice. Pour 
into a mold previously wet with cold water, and stand away to harden. 
Serve very cold. 

44 



Toast Water 

For a Weak Stomach 



One-quarter teaspoonful Armour's Soluble Beef 

Equal measures of stale and toasted bread and boiling water 

salt 



DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARING 

Cut bread in quarter-inch slices, put in pan, and dry tlu)roughly in a 
slow oven until crisp and brown. Break in pieces. Add water, first 
dissolvintj the Soluble Beef in it. Let stand one hour, strain through 
cheesecloth and season. Tiiis is often beneficial in cases of extreme 
nausea. 




45 



PACE 

Albumenized Milk 4.3 

Alphabet Soup 11 

Appropriate Sauces , 31 

Armour's Soluble Beef 41 

Armour's Tomato Bouillon 33 

Asparox 27 

Aspic Jelly 38 

Baked Fish 34 

Beef Bouillon 12 

Beef Tea 42 

Brown Bread 37 

Brown Soup Stock 11 

Celeried Beef Tea 42 

Chafing Dish Wrinkles ]') 

Cocoa Coriial 44 

Corn Chowder 16 

Cream of Asparox 29 

Cream of Celery Soup 13 

Cream Toast with Asparox 28 

Creamed Lobster 21 

Croquettes of Odds and Ends 17 

Croutons 17 

Easy Vegetable Soup 13 

Egg-nog 43 

Eggs a la Creme 22 

Eggs in Cases 37 

English Monkey 23 

Escalloped Fish 30 

Fricassee of Dried Beef 23 

Frozen Beef Tea 42 

Golden Buck .20 

Iced Bouillon 12 

Lobster a la Newburg 21 

Macaroni Soup 14 

Marguerites 37 

Miscellaneous 36 

Mock Mince Pie 22 

Molasses Cookies 36 

Murray Hill Potatoes (A la Asparox) 29 

46 



PACK 

Ox-Tail Soup 15 

Oyster Cocktail .^4 

Oyster Pan Roast 25 

Pea Soup 12 

Potagre a la Creole 16 

Potato Soup 15 

Rice Water 4.> 

Sardines a la Creole 35 

Sauce Asparox 29 

Sauces for Fish and Meats 31 

Shredded Ham with Currant Jelly 24 

Shrimp Wiggle 25 

Shrimps a la Creole 24 

Snickadoodle 3S 

Soluble Beef 41 

Soup Making 8 

Stewed Mushrooms 23 

Stock for Soups 9 

Suggestions for Using Armour's Tomato Bouillon 34 

Table of Proportions 39 

Thick White Sauce 2S 

Toast Water 45 

Tomato Bouillon 34 

Tomato Puree 35 

Tomato Sauce 35 

Tomato Soup 14 

Turkey Soup 14 

Veal Croquettes 2S 

\'egetable Soup 13 

Welsh Rarebit 20 

Wheat Muffins 36 

Wine Jelly 44 



^. 



^4 190S. 



LBAgl05 



•,:»..-. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 





X:X- 



