^' ii.\V ii-i*'^ 






:L MTIIA NORTGM 



^ 








sO" A'b 



r J6fi<^ 



\> 



— ^k \ . 



\'.' 



/ 



l^iyC^ 



//^, V^- 




Qass. 
Book. 



THE BEQUEST OF 

DANIEL MURRAY 

WASHINGTON. D. C. 

1925 



Luncheons 

Breakfasts, Simple Dinners 

and Carving 



AI,SO 



Practical Talks to Home-Makers 



BY 



H. MYRA NORTON 

Teacher of Domestic Science in Walden 
University, Nashville, Tenn. 

^'- >'nu\. N. h I. SOHOOt 
WITH TWO HUNDRED OF HER BEST RECEIPTS 



awi.. .zvn.LE,vA> 



t \ 



Thk Cumbkri^and Prkss 
Nashvii,i,e, T^nn. 






The bequest of 

Daniel Murray, 

Washington, D, C. 

1925. 



THE PREFACE. 



(J 



Purpose.— This book is intended to be of use to a 
large body of young women and housekeepers of the 
colored race. After spending twelve years in the South- 
land and having studied very carefully the needs of 
the people— I wish to leave them a fewf thoughts 
along the lines of domestic science. 

It has been my custom to note down those points of 
practical importance in which the masses of the people 
seem to need instruction. H. Myra Norton. 

Nashville, Tenn., December, 1905. 



SUGGESTIONS TO THE READER. 



This book will not contain any of the subjects that 
are generally found in cook books on heat, light, etc. 
But I shall put in some simple and yet practical 
talks to young people that will be of more use in the 
homes. And I here say that I hope this book will 
help and be of use in all homes that it may reach and 
that the people will accept it in the spirit in which it 
has been written, and I further trust that God will 
bless my efforts in trying to help my own people. 



PRELIMINARIES. 



MEASURING. 

Accurate measurement is necessary to insure suc- 
cess in cooking". 

All dry materials should be sifted before measur- 
ing. 

A cupful is all a cup will hold without running it 
over, full to the brim. 

A scant cupful is within a quarter of an inch of 
thj top. 

A tablespoonful of flour, sugar, or butter is a 
rounded spoonful. 

A teaspoonful of salt, soda, pepper, or spice is a 
level spoonful. 

A heaped spoonful is all the spoon will hold. 

Half a sipoonful is measured by dividing through 
the middle lengthwise. 

CARVING. 

Everyone should know how; to carve. While the but- 
ler does the carving in the present a la Russe style 
of dinner, yet there are many informal and family 
dinners, picnics, and sO' on, where butlers are not 
present for service, and as much of the pleasure of a 
good dinner depends on the carving it is a desirable 
accomplishment for all. 

In England there were regular schools where this 
art was taught, and at one time the duty of carving 
devolved on the lady of the house. 

5 



Lady Mary Wortley Montagu took lessons three 
times a week, and then she dined an hour or so in 
advance of the others so that she might perform this 
office at her father's table, and other ladies did the 
same in those days. I shall offer a few suggestions 
on the art which may be helpful to some of my read- 
ers. 

To carve the knife must be sharp, which should be 
attended to before going tO' the table, and it should 
be made of the best steel. The fork should be fur- 
nished with a guard, and be long and strong. 

Carving Ham — I think the best way to carve a 
ham is to begin in the middle of the ham and cut 
across it. The knife should be sharp, and thin, even 
slices should be cut, always cutting clear to the bone. 

A more economical way, and one which is often 
practiced, is to begin at large end and work down. 

In carving a sirloin of beef it will be found a great 
advantage if the knife is inserted just above the bone, 
at the bottom of the meat, and run sharply along be- 
tween the bone and meat. 

The underside, or tenderloin part, should be cut 
thin, lengthwise, and a little of the soft fat given with 
each piece. As the underside is usually considered 
the choicest part a little should be given with each 
plate, or else ask the guest whether the outside or 
underside is preferred. 

It requires little skill to carve a round of beef. Cut 
a thick slice off the top to leave the surface smooth, 
and then thin, even slices should be cut across the 
round, parallel with the top. 

Ribs of the beef are carved mxuch the same as the 
sirloin before described. 

6 



A fillet of veal is cut in the same manner as a round 
of beef. Have the slices thin and even. A little of the 
stuffing, and a little of the fat should be given with 
each plate. As the brown outside is preferred "by some 
people, an honored guest may be asked if he prefers 
it. 

A leg of mutton is carved by beginning In the mid- 
dle, instead of either end, and cutting across the leg. 
Have the knife sharp, and cut thin, deep slices, and 
give each one a little of the fat and some of the brown 
outside. 

A saddle of mutton is carved in thin, even slices, 
running from the tail tO' the end, beginning to carve 
close to the backbone. Cut each piece quite down to 
the bone, and give some fat from the sides on each 
plate. 

A haunch of mutton is carved in thin, even slices, 
running from tail tO' end, beginning to carve close to 
the backbone. Cut each piece quite down to the bone 
on the knuckle (or small) end, then slices are cut the 
whole length of the haunch, much the same as in the 
saddle of mutton. 

In carving a fore-quarter of lamb, the shoulder 
should be first cut away from the breast and ribs by 
passing the knife under and around the shoulder, be- 
ing careful not tO' cut away toO' much meat with it. 

Then cut the ribs from the brisket or gristly part, 
and the guests may be helped from the shoulder, 
brisket or ribs as they prefer. 

A roast pig should be cut in half before it is sent 
to the table. 

In carving, the shoulder is first cut from the carcass 
by passing the knife around it. 

7 



The leg- is then cut off in the same w^y. 

The ribs are then separated, as some prefer one 
part and some another; the tastes of the different 
guests should be consulted in serving them. 

Poultry — In carving a goose, first cut thin, even 
slices, from the breast. 

A hole should then be cut with the knife in the 
*'apron," and some of the stuffing given with each 
plate. 

The fork is placed inside the leg, and it is gently 
forced away from the body, and this enables the carver 
to readily find the joint and cut through it, when he 
wishes to cut away the leg. 

The wings, side bones, and neck are then cut off. 

Skillful carving consists in getting as many slices 
as possible from the breast, and it is singular how 
many more a good carver will provide than a poor 
one. 

Carving a turkey is much the same as carving a 
goose. 

The carver begins by cutting thin slices from the 
breast, cutting down towards the breast bone. 

Serve guests with the part they prefer, but gravy 
should never be poured over white meat as it spoils 
its delicate appearance. 

In carving a fowl or chicken, first cut the legs from 
the body, next take off the wings, and then carve the 
breast. 

Small game (birds) are usually carved by simply 
cutting them from the neck to the tail. 

If very small they are often served whole. 

There are many ways of carving a rabbit. One way 
is to pass the knife along both sides of the backbone 

8 



from head to tail. Then divide the sides cross-ways 
and nearly in the center, and then cut off the legs and 
shoulders. 

A tongue is first cut in the middle and across the 
tongue, and good slices, not too' thin, are cut out until 
the best portions of the tongue are served. The fat 
lies near the roof of the tongue and a little can be 
served tO' those who like it. 

Fish — Now is the time to exercise care in carving 
to keep fish in perfect flakes, as to break them destroys 
the beauty of the fish. Never use steel knives in 
carving fish, they exercise a very disagreeable flavor 
to fish ; use silver or plated fish knives. 

In carving large fish the knife should first be run 
down close to the backbone and the whole length of 
the fish, thus cutting it in two. 

Then cut regular slices across the fish for the guests. 

Small fish like brook trout are, of course, served 
whole. 

LUNCHEONS, BREAKFASTS AND SIMPLE 

DINNERS. 

Dinner parties are now; beginning to be a thing of 
the past because they are such ceremonious affairs, in- 
volving so much trouble and expense that people hesi- 
tate about giving them, and there are many less formal 
ways of entertaining. But let us remember that an 
invitation tO' a dinner is considered a great elegance 
and to entertain our friends in any wlay manifests the 
spirit of hospitality. In all ages and among all nations, 
savage as well as civilized, to entertain another was a 
peculiar evidence of good will, which would cement 
friendship and heal animosities. 

9 



LUNCHEONS. 

Luncheon is a meal of a more recent date than din- 
ners and is a very nice way to entertain and may be 
a dinner in everything but the name. Any meal taken 
between or after the regular meals is called a luncheon. 
The invitations to a luncheon may be given verbally 
or written, or for very formal occasions engraved. 

To a formal invitation prompt answier should be 
sent, and if unable to attend after having accepted, 
the hostess should be promptly notified. 

Many who dread the pomp and ceremony of a ''din- 
ner" take refuge in a luncheon, and entertain their 
friends in a sort of formal-informal way. 

A colored table cloth, which a strict and elegant 
taste would forbid for a dinner, may be allowed at a 
luncheon, but even here the white are the handsomest 
cloths. In many informal affairs the table cloth is 
dispensed with altogether, and the lunch is served on 
the mahogany table, but this is unusual. One who has 
elegant china has a great advantage over those who 
do not in entertaining, but if we have not fine china 
let us keep well washed what we have and the simplest 
meal can be made pleasant. 

People who have elegant dresses never wear them 
at luncheons, unless it is a very formal affair. Some- 
times an elegant reception dress is worn, and again a 
tailor-miade street costume, and all varieties of dress 
are at times permissible. Hats and bonnets need not 
be removed by ladies, but gloves should be pulled off 
before taking a seat at the table. 

Gentlemen may wear the morning dress, or even 
lawn tennis suits, at a watering place. Guests go to 

10 



the dining" room separately, instead of arm-in-arm, but 
the ladies go first. It* is immaterial where they sit. 

Guests may help themselves and wait on, one another 
and the gentlemen may wait on the ladies. In 
America, most hostesses prefer to have one servant 
remain during the whole meal, but in England the 
servants usually leave the dining room after serving 
the first courses. 

THE USUAL ARRANGEMENT OF TABLES. 

This is left entirely tO' the hostess ; one prefers one 
arrangement of a table, and one another, but I shall 
give some general rules. 

First have wfell-laundered linen, glass, silver, and 
china perfectly clean. Napkins are not folded in 
fancy shapes in homes ; it is thought by fashionable 
people to be too much on the hotel order. 

At an elaborate lunch there may be three knives 
and forks, and a fork for oysters at each place. Table 
mats are not used at either dinner or lunch — they are 
out of date — but each dish must be wiped before put- 
ting it on the table. 

Menu cards are never used at a luncheon. At 
luncheon the bill of fare may be varied, but some hot 
dishes or soup are usually desired by most people. 
Cold meats and salads are always in order. 

Fish croquettes, chops, and vegetables may be 
served. 

For dessert, the plainer loaf cakes, puddings, ice 
cream, mints, blancmange, jellies, and tarts are ap- 
propriate. 

Chocolate is nice, also. 



11 



BREAKFASTS. 

"A French breakfast," is a mieal served a little ear- 
lier than the lunch. In some circles it is quite a fash- 
ion ; many people entertain that way instead of a 
lunch. There is little difference except the hour at 
which they are held as the breakfast may be at twelve 
o'clock, while a lunch would come at one or later. 
Any fruit that may be in season is usually offered for 
the first course, and eggs, cooked in various ways, are 
quite generally served. This is a better way to enter- 
tain than tO' give a luncheon because it calls for simple 
dress. The bill of fare should be of the best and taste- 
fully served, but nothing elaborate is attempted. 

SUPPER PARTIES. 

Supper parties given late in the evening are another 
nice way to entertain. Some physicians have objected 
tO' late suppers, while others, equally eminent, assert 
that they are conducive of balmy sleep, so that it is an 
open cjuestion whether they are really injurious, and 
each individual must be a "law to himself." 

SIMPLE DINNERS. 

Many people who are endowed with all the qualifi- 
cations for giving and receiving social enjoyment, are 
deterred from giving dinners by the feeling that they 
must adorn their tables with all the extravagant ac- 
cessories of the luxurious dinner givers, if they enter- 
tain at all. 

This feeling is foolish ; some of the least expensive 
dinners are the most charming and pleasurable. They 
who are able to entertain but do not, deprive both 

12 



themselves and their friends of much enjoyment, and 
society is a g-reat loser thereby. 

An invitation to dinner is an evidence of good will, 
but the eating- should promote instead of retard social 
intercourse. The hostess should wlrite her own invi- 
tations, and but a few things are really necessary for a 
good dinner. A clean, white table cloth, equally fresh 
napkins, china, glass and cutlery that are spotless, a few 
flowers to ornament the table, a comfortable room, 
well-cooked food, and a light dessert served in good 
taste — these are all that are needed. Much tact is 
necessary in selecting the guests for an informal din- 
ner or any informal affair. 

As the intercourse is free and social in informal 
affairs the important dishes are put on the table, and 
the hostess can dish out the soup and the host can 
carve. A French roll or a small slice of bread should 
be folded in each napkin. If there are servants have 
them well trained beforehand, so no awjkward mis- 
takes will be made. The plates should be hot; any 
meal will be spoiled if the meat is put on cold plates. 
And the servant should have a napkin around her 
thumb, as even simple dinners are marred by any 
lack of neatness. Before serving the dessert the table 
should be cleared of everything but ' the fruit and 
flowers, and crumbs brushed on a tray with a brush 
or crumb scraper. The latter is the best because it is 
the neatest. Then bring on your dessert dishes. The 
dinner should not last more than an hour. 

THE FAMILY TABLE. 

Perfect ease at the table comes only from constant 
practice. 

13 



The rules of etiquette should be strictly observed at 
home, and then there will be nO' fear of appearing 
awkward when in society. 

At meal time all the members of the family should 
meet together around a common table, and a pleasant 
conversation take place. 

Even in families of moderate circumstances, the 
table should be made as tasteful and attractive as pos- 
sible. 

A few flowiers and spotless linen will be an excellent 
appetizer, and few families are too poor to afford 
these. 

Among the people of means there has been a marked 
increase in the elegance of their table appointments in 
the last few years. 

To greet those in the room when you arrive with a 
"good morning," or "good evening," is a mark of 
politeness. 

To wear gloves at any meal, is "bad form," and they 
are never worn at formal meals. 

BREAKFAST TABLE. 

At the breakfast table, a tinted cloth and napkins 
may be used. 

The breakfast napkins are not quite as large as 
those used at dinner. 

Fruit should be regularly served at breakfast. In 
our own family we always had fruit for breakfast; 
the old adage that "fruit is gold in the morning," was 
generally believed by us all. 

Raw apples are as nice as any other fruit for break- 
fast and perhaps as cheap. 

More freedom is allowed at breakfast than any other 
meal. 

14 



The morning paper, correspondence, or books, may 
be glanced over, which is not allowable at other meals, 
and any member of the family may leave the. table, 
as business dictates, without waiting for the others. 
Gentlemen, howlever, should never come to the table 
in their morning gowns. They should wear their 
morning suits, and the toilet of a lady should be care- 
fully made. Any approach to slovenliness is always 
vulgar. 

LUNCHEONS. 

In all cities it is becoming the custom to have a 
luncheon in the middle of the day, while dinner is 
reserved until evening, as the gentlemen of the family 
are away during the day at their places of business. 
But the children and all ladies of the family should 
enjoy the luncheon together. A tinted cloth and napkins 
are allowlable for lunch, the same as breakfast, yet for 
any meal nothing is more elegant than white napery. 
The food is all put on the table for an informal lunch. 

DINNER. 

Always use a snowy white table cloth for dinner. 
A heavy canton flannel undercloth will protect the 
table and make the cloth lie smooth. In homes of the 
wealthy the same napkin is never used twice without 
being washed, sO' that napkin rings are out of style. 
Those in moderate circumstances cannot afford this 
prodigality ; but napkins should be changed often. 
Napkins should be provided for fruit and should be 
fruit napkins. Paper napkins are also nice. 

As fruit stains napkins, the fruit napkins may be 
brought in with the dessert plates, laid beside or on the 
finger bowl. 

15 



Individual salt and pepper stands have taken the 
place of old-fashioned casters, which formerly stood 
in the center of the table. The caster is out of style. 

Oil and vinegar are put on the table in pretty little 
glass bottles or jugs. At very formal meals the 
mustard, oil, vinegar, etc., are not permitted on the 
table. They are kept on the sideboard as they are 
seldom needed, the proper seasoning being provided 
for each dish. 

The old-fashioned spoon holder is also out of style. 
On tables of the polite it is now rarely seen. Tea 
spoons are supplied like the knives and forks. 

Small bread and butter plates should be provided 
for each person. 

Some people have the butter put on the sideboard 
and passed around when needed. 

Should individual salt cellars be used, the salt should 
be changed after each meal. 

Cheerfulness at the table aids digestion ; the utmost 
sociability and good feeling should prevail at the table. 
Cares should be laid aside for the time being; all 
should look forward to the meal time as being pleasant 
and restful. In families where dinner is served at 
night it should be looked forward to, with the idea 
that it is the social reunion of the day. 

TEA OR SUPPER. 

In the country and in small cities, the dinner is 
usually served in the middle of the day, which is the 
principal meal, and at night comes the tea or supper, 
and is much like that of a luncheon. The gentlemen 
have returned from business, and cheerful conversa- 
tion and little formality are the rule. 

But at all meals show a refined taste. 

16 



SOUPS. 

Note on Soup Making — You may use ham bones or 
any other rough pieces of meat, so they are clean and 
good to make the stock. Then make any soup you 
wish, using your judgment. 

For a summer soup, take the receipt for vegetable, 
only boil the vegetables in water until done, season 
with butter, then add the amount desired in equal 
quantities of milk and cream. This is a most excel- 
lent soup and country people find it very convenient. 

Beef Soup — Six pounds of lean beef or a good 
soup bone, cover with cold water, boil slowly three 
hours, add a little cold water to stop the boil, then 
skim off the top. Do this three times. Then add one 
onion, two potatoes, one carrot, one turnip, and a little 
parsley. Boil one hour more, then take out the meat 
and strain the vegetables into another vessel. Beat 
three eggs well in the soup tureen, stir soup and add 
gradually — the eggs will not curdle. Then add your 
vegetables. This is an excellent soup. Rice and pearl 
barley may be used if you desire, also use salt and 
pepper to taste. 

Bouillon Soup — Three pounds of beef and bones. 
Break up the bones, three quarts of water, salt and 
pepper to taste, three carrots, one onion, three cloves, 
one head of celery, one turnip, one parsnip. Simmer 
five hours, strain and serve clear. 

% 17 



Bouillon is sometimes made from beef extract. One 
can will make three quarts ; use boiling water, and not 
use any vegetables. This is called Bouillon (Beef Tea), 
and is often served with fancy sandwiches for in- 
formal evening parties. 

Chicken Soup — To two quarts of liquor add one- 
half teacup of rice, two teacups of milk. Season 
with parsley or celery, thicken slightly, use salt and 
pepper to taste. 

Chicken soup may be made from the giblets, feet, 
necks, or boil a hen partly done then stuff and roast 
the hen. Use the liquor for soup. 

Clam Soup — Twenty-five clams, hard or soft. Boil 
in a pint of water one hour. Take out, chop fine, add 
to the clam broth one pint of rich cream, a little salt 
and pepper; be careful about salt and pepper because 
clams require little salt. Thicken slightly and boil all 
together two minutes. Served with toasted bread or 
crackers. 

This same receipt is excellent for lobster soup or 
fish cream soup, the only difference being the lobster 
and fish will only need boiling fifteen minutes. Fresh 
fish may take one-half hour. 

Cream Tomato Soup — Let one can of tomatoes 
get hot, add a bit of soda. Have hot one quart of 
fresh milk, rub the tomatoes through a sieve and add 
the liquid to the milk. Be sure they are both hot but 
neither must boil or they will curdle. Use a large 
piece of butter, and salt and white pepper to taste. 
Thicken slightly and serve with crackers or corntons. 
This is delicate and a most excellent soup. 

18 



Oyster Soup— Put two quarts of milk on in a 
double-boiler, when hot add butter the size of an egg, 
one teaspoonful of sugar, salt and pepper tor taste. 
Take one quart of oysters with their juice, skim the 
oysters out of their juice, put them into a hot dish, 
let the juice boil, then pour it over the oysters and let 
stand one minute covered tight. Then pour the boil- 
ing milk ov6r the oysters and serve in hot plates or 
bowlls with oyster crackers. 

Potato Soup — Boil one dozen potatoes done, mash 
through a colander. Add one quart of fresh milk. 
Butter, salt and pepper to taste. Brown three table- 
SDOonfuls of flour in one of butter, stir in the soup, 
season with parsley or celery. Last of all add two 
well-beaten eggs. Serve hot. Eggs may be left out or 
boiled hard and cut in slices and put in the soup. 

Tomato Soup— Make according to any other soup 
made of stock, only, instead of a number of vegetables, 
you use tomatoes for the principal vegetable. To two 
quarts of stock add one can of tomatoes or six whole 
ones, let boil one hour, rub through a sieve, return to 
the fire and thicken a little. Season to taste; serve 
with crotons. 

Vegetable Soup— Boil your soup bone four to 
five hours. Add hot water if needed to make sufficient 
quantity of soup. Cut fine one-half cabbage, three 
potatoes, one turnip, one onion, one carrot, one head 
of celery, three tomatoes, three ears of corn. Season 
with salt, pepper, parsley, and cook one hour longer. 
Canned corn or tomatoes may be used, but must 
not be added until ten minutes before serving. 

19 



GUMBOS. 

Gumbos — Gumbos come between the stews and 
soups. The thickening is furnished by okra, also a 
preparation of dried sassafras leaves, with a small 
quantity of pulverized bay leaves. 

In New Orleans the people utilize the remains of 
cold roasted chicken, turkeys, game and other meats 
to make gumbos. They also add oysters, crabs, and 
shrimps. 

Old Southern Gumbo Soup — Two large chick- 
ens, one pint of green okra pods, one quart of water, 
pepper and salt to taste. Cut the chicken in small 
pieces, roll in flour, fry brown. Take out the chicken, 
add the gumbos (sliced okra pods) and brown that 
in the fat. Add to this a tablespoonful of flour and 
stir until brown ; then add two pints of water slowly, 
stirring until smooth. Put in the meat of the chicken 
and simmer slowly for two hours. Serve with boiled 
rice. 

Should you use oysters in your gumbo scald their 
liquor, season to taste, pour in the soup, let boil five 
minutes, add the oysters last of all and let boil up once. 



20 



OYSTERS. 



Oysters — Oysters are used and liked by most peo- 
ple so much, we thought we would give space in our 
book for some excellent tried receipts. Never plunge 
oysters in hot fat to increase the size ; it spoils the 
flavor. 

Note — Never use oysters out of season. People 
who live on the coast often keep oysters from two to 
three weeks. This is done by spreading them on the 
cellar floor, wdth the rounding part of the shell down, 
and sprinkling with salt and Indian meal. Then cover 
with old carpet or blanket, keep wet with cold water. 
Repeat sprinkling and wetting of the carpet every day. 

Oysters Stewed with Celery — Put two cups of 
good beef soup stock in a stew pan, add one pint of 
rich milk or a pint of cream, one cup of celery chopped 
fine. Cook five minutes, then thicken slightly, add 
one-half cup of powdered cracker dust. Have ready 
in a hot tureen, twenty-five large oysters, parboiled 
in their own juice. Last of all season tO' taste with 
salt, pepper and butter if needed. Pour your sauce 
over the oysters and serve immediately. 

Oysters on Toast — Take one quart of oysters, re- 
move the pieces of shell, put the liquor back on them. 
Put in a stew pan with butter the size of an tgg, salt 
and pepper to taste. When hot add a cup of milk, 

21 



thicken a little. Have ready a platter of toasted bread. 
Pour the mixture over and serve at once. This is a 
delicious dish. 

Scalloped Oysters — Butter a pudding dish, put 
in a layer of bread crumbs with bits of butter, then a 
layer of oysters, season with salt and pepper. Repeat 
this until the dish is full; leave layer of bread crumbs 
on top. Mix the oyster liquor with half the amount 
of cream and milk and a beaten egg. Pour over the 
top. Bake until a light brown. It usually takes 
twenty-five minutes. Many people don't like them 
cooked much, and they heat a shovel hot and hold over 
the top until the scalloped is brown. 

Oysters shell-scalloped are fixed the same way, only 
instead of cooking them in one dish they are baked 
in shells. The shells are placed in a dripping pan. 
When done serve directly from the shell. The flavor 
is much better when cooked this way. 

Scalloped Oysters with Hard Boiled Eggs — 
Thesie are made the same as above, only chop fine hard 
boiled eggs and mix with the bread crumbs. 



22 



fish; 

Fresh Fish — We have only one test which we 
apply to all varieties of fish. If fresh, the eyes will 
be full, the body full, the flesh firm and thick, the fins 
stifif, the skin and scales bright; any drooping of the 
tail shows that the fish is not in a prime condition. 
Salmon, if good, always has red flesh and gills; fresh 
salmon is improved by keeping a day or two. It is 
claimed, by good authority, that no other fish is. 

We might say a great deal on the subject of fish, 
but as we mean for our book tO' be practical, we are 
trying to make our receipts plain so every one can 
understand them. 

Before cooking fish, always wash it well in cold 
water. Many people sprinkle salt inside of fish ; this 
will destroy any muddy taste. But if you wish to fry 
or broil fish it is better to sprinkle pepper inside of 
the fish, as salt prevents fish from browning nicely. 

Vinegar is much better than salt to preserve fish. 
Cover the fish with the vinegar. In frying fish use 
lard ; some people like fish fried in equal quantities of 
lard and butter, but this is nothing but extravagance. 

Before frying fish, after it has been cleaned and 
washed, roll it in a cloth to absorb the moisture. 

Boiling Fish — Place fish in cold, salted water for 
boiling. Never use hot water, because the outside 
will be cooked before the inside. Put a little vinegar 

23 



in the water, it always adds to the flavor of the fish 
as much as salt. Boil fish gently until you can draw 
out one of the fins. Most fish will be done in thirty 
or forty minutes. 

Cheese and Cod Fish — Prepare the fish as for 
balls. Have a nice dish greased with butter, put in a 
layer of fish first, then a layer of grated cheese with 
bits of butter, salt and pepper alternately, until the 
dish is full. Put over the top one-half cup of cream 
or milk, and bake about twenty minutes or until 
brown. 

Cod Fish Balls — Take an even quantity of shredded 
cod fish and mashed potatoes or more potatoes mashed 
together well, add one egg, moisten with a little sweet 
milk, roll in flour and fry in lard. Always cook the 
fish first. 

^^* tg?* c^* 

POULTRY. 



Ducks — Ducks have supple feet, otherwise, the 
same tests should be applied to them as fowls. 

Geese — ^Young geese have feet and bills yellow in 
color; when old, the feet are red. If the windpipe 
breaks easily, they are young ; if it rolls, you had better 
not trust the bird. 

Turkeys — Turkeys, when young, have smooth, 
black legs ; when rough and red the turkey is old. 
For roasting, do not select a turkey over ten or twelve 
pounds. The meat should be firm, end of the breast 
bone easily bent. The same tests are used in buying 
chickens, only remember the young fowl will have 
smooth legs and comb. 

24 



MEATS. 

Note — The way to roast all meats is to heat the 
bake pan first, then put in the roast and let it brown. 
Turn over when brown and dredge well with flour 
(this method retains the juices in the meat) then put 
back in the oven and cook done, basting as necessary. 
If cooked in this manner the inside will be pink and 
juicy in beef. All other meats should be cooked well 
done. 

Do not wtaste money in buying poor meats. We can 
live and have good health by eating meat once a day ; 
too much meat is not good for any person. But when 
it is eaten it should be good and well cooked. Few 
people know howl to cook meats well. 

Beef — This is the best and most economical for 
general use. When buying beef notice if it is bright 
red in color, firm in touch, also if the fat is straw 
color. If these rules are followed you will always be 
able to pick beef. If meat is eaten when it is first 
killed it will be tender, because the muscles are relaxed 
then. In a short time they stiffen, then the flesh will 
be hard, afterwards they will again relax and the meat 
become tender as at first. The loin, rump, fillet or 
tenderloin, these are the best cuts in the beef and they 
are all found in the hind quarter. 

Mutton — Most colored people are prejudiced to 
mutton, and it is the most nutritious meat in use. 

25 



Doctors will order mutton for invalids. Good mut- 
ton is dark red in color. Mutton should be kept in a 
cool place a longer time after killing than beef. It will 
then be tender and the taste of the wool will be gone. 
A saddle of the mutton is the two loins joined. The 
saddle and shoulder are the best for roasting; unless 
tender it is better to boil them some before roasting. 

Roast Beef — To have a nice roast get a large one ; 
from eight to ten pounds is a good size. Have the pan 
hot, that you put it into, also the oven. Do not add 
water. Let remain twenty minutes then dredge with 
flour, add a little water if needed, season with salt 
and pepper. When done take out, put on a hot dish, 
add water and make the gravy. Always take off some 
of the fat before making the gravy. 

Baked Beefsteak — Take the bone out of a round 
steak, make a dressing of potatoes and bread, season 
with parsley, onion or celery, salt and pepper to taste, 
spread over the steak and roll up and tie, roast forty 
minutes, make a nice gravy and serve hot. 

Oyster sauce is very nice with baked steak. This is 
made by adding juice of the oysters to the brown 
gravy of the steak. Serve baked potatoes with your 
steak, also garnish with sliced lemon, if you want a 
fancy dish. 

Beef Heart Stuffed — Boil the heart until tender, 
cut out the portion of the heart on the inside, fill with 
dressing. Put the heart in pan in oven and pour the 
gravy over it that it was cooked in, season nicely 
and bake twenty-five minutes then take it out of the 
pan. Chop up the rest of the heart in fine pieces, stir 

26 



into the liquor in the pan and thicken a Httle with 
brown flour. Serve separately. This is cheap and 
delicious. It is very nice served cold ; slice thin and 
g-arnish the dish with lemon or lettuce or any pretty 
garnish. 

Stewed Beef — Cut the meat up fine, boil tender, 
season wiith salt and pepper, add chopped onion or 
parsley. Cook potatoes with the stew if you desire 
them. You may make nice stew by cutting the meat 
fine and lining a baking dish with sliced potatoes, and 
put a layer of potatoes on top. Put in the oven and 
bake forty-five minutes. 

Boiled Ham — Soak your ham as for baking. Boil 
for four or five hours. When done, take out and 
draw) off the skin. If you wish, you may fix the same 
as for baking, and put in the oven and let brown. If 
you just want a plain boiled ham always let it cool 
in the water it was cooked in. If you follow out 
cooking ham this way you will never have that dryness 
in cold ham. 

Cooking Beef Steak — A sirloin is best broiled. 
Have a clear fire, if the fire is not bright sprinkle a 
handful of salt over the fire. Butter the broiler to 
prevent the meat from sticking. Sear the steak on 
both sides. This is done to keep the juices in the steak. 
While cooking, turn frequently. Never stick a fork in 
steak; this allows the gravy to escape. Nor salt until 
done, because salt draws out the juice. A steak will 
cook well done in fifteen minutes. When you take the 
steak off of the broiler put on a hot dish, pour drawn 
butter over it. Salt and pepper. 

27 



Beef Loaf — Two pounds of beef chopped fine, 
one-half pound of salt pork, salt and pepper to taste, 
one teacup of rolled crackers, one-half cup of fresh 
milk, three eggs well beaten ; mix altogether, form 
in a loaf in a pudding dish. Pour over two cups of 
water and bake one hour and a half; let cool and cut 
in slices. All fresh meat can be used in this manner. 

A Roast Pig — Take a small pig, make a dressing 
of potatoes, season with sage, a little chopped apple, 
salt and pepper to taste. Stuff the pig and sew up. 
Always rub the outside over with lard or butter to 
keep it from blistering. Roast three hours, basting 
often. Many baste at last with melted butter. Serve 
the pig whole, stand him on the table whole. Put an 
apple or a piece of celery in his mouth. Always 
garnish the dish with some green lettuce, or parsley is 
nice. 

Baked Ham — Soak a ham for twenty-four hours 
then wash nicely. Make a thick paste of flour and 
wiater, cover the ham over with the paste. Put in the 
oven and bake slowly five hours, or until the fork 
will go through easily. Take out and remove the 
skin, rub over the top two well beaten eggs, then 
sprinkle a little sugar over the top, after which stick 
the top full of whole cloves. Sprinkle some fine bread 
crumbs over the top, return to the oven for fifteen 
minutes or until the ham is brown on top. This is 
the most delicious way of fixing ham. 

Roast Mutton — Put the roast of mutton in the 
pan with the bone turned down to the fire. Rub some 
butter over it, dredge with flour, put in the oven when 

28 



the flour forms a paste on the meat. Add a little 
water. Baste frequently. Allow fifteen minutes to the 
pound. Serve with mint sauce, or any acid jelly 
melted. 

Stewed Kidneys — Parboil the kidneys and cover- 
ing with cold water, season w|ith salt and pepper — be 
sure to cut off all the fat first; when they begin to 
boil skim as often as necessary. When done add a 
head of celery chopped fine, one onion chopped, six 
potatoes sliced, and one-half cup of butter. When 
done, thicken the stew with brown flour. If you want 
the stew real brown, always fry the kidneys in a little 
butter before stew;ing them. 

Pork — Pork should be eaten in small quantities and 
not very often. Fresh pork, if good, has a firm, clear, 
white skin, pale red lean, and pure white fat. Butch- 
ers make good money out of pork because every part 
of the hog is made us of. The feed under the guise 
of souse, is the most digestible portion of the animal. 

Deviled Meats — Take cold boiled meats, chop very 
fine, season well with red pepper and dry mustard, 
add a little vinegar tO' moisten, press solid and slice it 
thin if you want it sliced. All deviled meats are made 
in this way. The word ''deviled" means "very hot" 
or "highly seasoned." 

Fried Liver — Cut the liver in thin slices, pour boil- 
ing water over it and let stand until cool, then pull 
off the edges, roll in flour, fry some breakfast bacon 
first and then fry the liver in the bacon fat. Lay the 
bacon around the liver on the dish. Lard can be used 
for frying instead of bacon. 

29 



Boiled Beef Tongue — Wash the tongue well, put 
in cold water and let boil from five to six hours. Then 
take off the skin. Serve hot with oyster sauce or 
slice cold. Should the tongue be corned or smoked, 
soak twenty-four hours before boiling. 

Rolled Beef — Take a piece of beef, make a dress- 
ing as for chicken. Spread over the beef, roll tightly 
and tie. Fold in a thin cloth, boil tender. Take up, 
drain and press under a weight, slice cold. Serve 
with pickles. Corn beef is delicious this way. 

Lamb — An Irishman buying lamb asked the butcher 
to please tell him the difference between the sheep, 
mutton, and the lamb. We wish to say lamb is only 
in season from May to September. The bones are a 
little reddish in color, and the fat is firm and white. 

Veal — Veal is a meat that is quite a favorite, but 
it requires a lot of discrimination in its selection. It 
also requires very thorough cooking; even then it is 
indigestible. Many do not think veal a wholesome 
meat. In buying veal notice the color ; if it is very 
white the calf has been bled, and this spoils the flavor. 
Veal, when good, has a firm, white fat, and lean with 
a pinkish tinge. Veal is unfit tO' eat if killed before 
it is six weeks old. If veal is too young for use it is 
bluish in color. The fillet is the part used for roasting ; 
it may be stuffed or roasted plain. The fillet is the 
solid piece of meat from the upper leg. 

Roast Lamb — Put the roast in the pan, dredge with 
flour, put salt and pepper over it ; if the lamb is lean 
pour a little melted butter over it. When it cooks a 
little add a little water and baste often. Allow twfenty- 

30 



five minutes to the pound. When done take out the 
pan, pour off the fat, add one cup of milk or cream, 
let come to the boil, then add tablespoonful of lemon 
juice and some chopped parsley, thicken slightly and 
serve separately. Serve with green peas. 

Roast Pork — Put a roast on to cook in a hot pan. 
Score the skin, strips or diamonds, rub with salt, pep- 
per and sage. Some cooks make deep gashes in the 
roast. Never take pork out until it is well done ; allow 
thirty minutes to the pound. When done, take out 
and make a nice gravy with brown flour. Always 
pour off the fat and add a little lemon juice. vServe 
with pork, mashed potatoes, turnips, parsnips and car- 
rots. 

How TO Cook Poor Beef — Many people cannot 
afford to buy the best beef, so we shall give you some 
receipts or simple w'^ys to cook poor beef to make it 
good. 

Shoulder Roast — Tie it carefully with twine and 
brown on both sides in braising pan in which there have 
been fixed four slices of fat pork; any fat will do. 
Dredge the meat well with flour. When it is brown 
sprinkle it with salt and pepper. When well browned on 
both sides add some water; you must use your judg- 
ment about the water. Put it in the oven and roast 
slowly, basting often. When done remove from the 
pan and serve ; thicken the gravy in the pan with 
flour rubbed smooth in cold water, let boil up and 
serve separately. 



31 



VEGETABLES. 



Potatoes are the simple vegetable and yet how few 
people know! how to cook them well. Potatoes and all 
fresh vegetables are better for standing in cold water 
a little while before cooking, then put on to cook 
in boiling water with a little salt. After potatoes are 
done drain them at once and let them stand a minute 
with the cover off for the steam to escape. 

Creamed Potatoes — Mash the potatoes until every 
lump is out, then add a little butter and one-half a cup 
of cream or milk, stir in well and then beat with a 
spoon until white and creamy. Keep hot and serve 
hot. Do not put pepper in potatoes or in any other 
vegetables that it wlill be seen in. Use white pepper 
if you use any. 

Stewed Potatoes — Cut the potatoes up in small 
pieces, boil tender. When done drain off the water, 
cover with milk or cream, add a piece of butter, a little 
chopped parsley, season and thicken a little. Serve 
hot. 

Baked Potatoes — For baking, select small ones, 
wash and wipe well, cut off the ends to let the steam 
out and bake done. 

Scalloped Potatoes — Slice the potatoes thin, put 
in layers in a pudding dish with butter, salt and pep- 

32 



per. When the dish is full, cover the potatoes vi\[h 
sweet milk and bake until done. You may use grated 
cheese, cracker or bread crumbs, if you wish, in scal- 
loping potatoes. 

Boiled Potatoes — Always put them on in boiliiig 
water with a little salt in it. Cook potatoes in plenty 
of water. When done, drain, remove the cover and set 
on the back of the stove to dry. 

Stuffed Potatoes — Bake the potatoes first. When 
done take out the inside, mash well, add a little grated 
cheese, butter, a beaten egg, season with salt to taste. 
Beat light, fill the skins .of the potatoes, return them 
to the oven and let brown. Serve hot. 

Saratoga Potatoes — Slice the potatoes with a 
potato knife, drain the potatoes until there is not one 
bit of water in them. Drop in boiling fat, and fry 
brown. They are as nice cold as they are hot. 

String Beans — String, cut in small pieces, wash, 
put on to cook in boiling water. Add a little soda, 
let cook about fifteen minutes, then skim out and put 
in the pot where the meat is cooking, and finish cook- 
ing. Some like string beans fixed with cream like 
peas. If cooked that way, have another pot of boiling 
water ready. 

Green Peas — Cook in a little water and when done 
add salt, pepper and butter and a cup of cream or 
milk; thicken slightly. 

Turnips, Beets, Carrots, Parsnips— Are all put 
on to cook in boiling water, never stick a fork in beets, 
it makes them bleed and spoils the color. 
^ 33 



Boiled Cabbage — Cook the same as string beans 
in two wiaters. Put the red pepper in the pot with the 
meat, as a rule, more salt is needed than is in the 
meat. 

Mushrooms — Fix like peas. If served with steak, 
cook dry and season with butter and pepper. 

(^* c^^ c^* 

BREAD-MAKING. 



Milk Bread — Take one quart of milk, butter or 
lard the size of an egg, two tablespoons of sugar. Put 
on the stove, let boil one minute, then take off the 
stove and let cool. When cool, have in an earthen dish 
two quarts of flour, stir in the milk, beat hard five to 
ten minutes, then add your yeast and let stand in a 
place where it will be warm and have an even tempera- 
ture. When light, stir in flour enough to make a stiff 
dough, knead one-half hour then put back in the dish 
and let rise until light, then knead again and make 
into loaves, put in bread pans and let rise nearly to 
the top, and bake one hour. 

Graham or whole wheat bread is made the same 
w|ay, using white flour for the sponge. 

Salt Rising Bread — Put one quart of warm water 
in a three-quart pail. Do this soon in the morning. 
Add a little salt and sugar, a pinch of soda, one cupful 
of sweet milk ; if you have no milk use four tablespoon- 
fuls of corn meal. Set your vessel in a kettle of warm 
water and keep an even temperature. Stir often until 
it foams and rises, then do not disturb or jar it. If 

34 



water ri^es over the yeast standing awhile stir in a 
Httle more flour. When the yeast rises to the top of 
the pail it is ready to use. Have two quarts of flour 
spread in a pan so as to leave a large cavity in the 
center and put in a piece of lard the size of an egg. 
Pour over this one pint of warm water and add the 
rising. Mix and work in loaves, put in bread tins, 
rub butter over the top, let rise. When light, bake 
forty minutes or more. 

Baking Powder Biscuits — One quart of flour, but- 
ter or lard the size of an egg, two teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder sifted with the flour, a little salt ; use milk 
or water enough to make a soft dough. Roll out, and 
cut out with a small cutter and bake in a quick oven. 

Note — Self-rising flour makes excellent biscuits and 
nothing but lard and milk is needed in making them. 

Parker House Rolls — One quart of warm milk, 
one-half cup of butter, a little sugar, one-half cake of 
yeast, a little salt. Scald the milk, butter, sugar, to- 
gether, let cool partly. Have ready two quarts of 
flour in a mixing bowl, make a hole in the flour, 
stir in the milk, beat well, add an egg and beat some 
more. Set to rise; when light, mix in the rest of the 
flour. Knead and let rise again, roll, cut out, put in 
the pan and let rise the third time. Bake in a hot 
oven. 

Muffins — Beat two eggs light, add two tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter, one pint of milk. Beat in one 
pint of flour in which have been two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, beat hard. Sometimes more flour 
may be needed. Make stiff batter, bake in a muffln 
ring twenty minutes. 

35 



Fine Muffins — Beat two eggs separately, add to 
the yelks one pint of milk, then half the flour, beat 
well, then the rest of the flour, a little salt, last of all 
the whites of the eggs. Bake two- minutes in well 
greased tins. 

Corn Meal Muffins — They are made the same; 
use corn meal for wheat flour. 

Sally Lunn — Three eggs, white and yelks beaten 
separately ; add one quart of milk to the yelks, stir in 
the one quart of flour, then add two tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter, a little salt, one-half yeast cake, last 
of all the whites of the eggs. Beat well. Grease a 
cake pan, pour in the mixture, let rise until light. 
Bake one hour; if you want it sweet, add sugar. 



36 



PASTRY. 

Hints About Making Pie Crust — For custard or 
fruit pies, always bake the bottom crust a little before 
putting the fruit or custard on or brush the bottom 
over with a little beaten egg. If you wish the crust 
to be very delicate in color, use the white of the egg 
only. This is put on the crust before filling with the 
mixture tO' prevent the juices from soaking in the 
crust. 

Fancy tarts may be ornamentally glazed, by taking 
out of the oven when nearly cooked, brushing over with 
a little beaten tgg, then covering over thickly with 
powdered sugar. Sprinkle a few drops of water over 
the top, return to the oven and finish cooking. 

Pie plant, fruit juices, etc., may be prevented from 
boiling out of the crust by taking the amount of sugar 
you would use to sweeten the pie, and putting it in a 
bowl, add a little water and stir in a large tablespoon 
of flour. Many cooks use corn starch, but we use 
flour. Pour this mixture over the pie, plant, or fruit, 
put the top crust on and bake. 

Some cooks dust a little flour on the bottom of the 
pie crust before filling. But mixing it with the fruit 
is better. 

Pastry is better for being kept on ice before using. 
Alwlays use cold water for making pastry. A marble 
slab board should be used for rolling pie crust on, 

37 



or a glass top table. The glass or marble keeps the 
paste cool. 

Roll the pie crust dough the one way, that is the 
direction from you. Turn the pie crust each time 
and roll. Make the under crust a little thicker than 
the top. You may take the top crust and roll it out ; 
add more butter or lard, roll up and roll out again. 
This can always be done in making pastry. If you 
wish the crust rich and flaky, it will always give you 
two grades of pastry. If wanted very rich, repeat 
the process. In making pastry use as little water as 
possible, the crust Will be much nicer. We do not 
give any set length of time for cooking pies ; some 
take longer than others, but nearly any pie will cook 
in forty minutes, such as apple, pumpkin, but rich 
custards and lemon pies will not take half the time. 

How TO Make Pastry — Never touch the paste with 
the hands until ready to roll out. Rub the shortening 
and flour together with a knife, fork or spoon. Have 
the lard or butter cold. When rubbed together add the 
water slowly until the whole is in form. 

Plain Pie Crust — One quart of flour, one large 
cup of lard or butter, one teaspoonful of salt. Follow 
the directions for making pie crust. Should you use 
butter you do not need the salt. 

Puff Paste — This is made pound for pound. Use 
one pound of flour and the same of butter ; if you use 
lard, it will take one-quarter of a pound less. Mix 
half the butter or lard in the flour, using a very little 
water. Roll out, cut part of the remaining butter or 
lard into bits on the paste, dredge with flour, fold 

38 



over, roll lightly together and set aside in a cool place 
for one-half hour. Take out, roll again, put on butter 
as before. Repeat this until the butter or lard is all 
gone. This paste is only for the top crust, and will 
keep a week on ice. , 

Country Pie Crusti — Many country people use 
sour cream with just a bit of soda for making pies. 
If this is done, you need no shortening. They also use 
one-third corn meal to two-thirds flour. Both ways 
are very nice. 

Lemon Pie — Three lemons and the grated yellow 
rind, two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one 
large tablespoon of corn meal, yelks of four eggs, one 
pint of sweet milk. Beat the lemon, sugar and butter 
together for fifteen minutes, then add the corn meal, 
the milk, last of all the eggs. Beat well. When per- 
fectly light, add the beaten whites of two eggs. Pour 
in a deep pie pan lined with paste and bake. When 
done, have the other two whites \yhipped light with a 
little sugar, spread over top, return to the oven, brown 
slightly. 

Note — This is a delicious lemon pie. 

Orange Pie — Use the same receipt as for lemon 
pie, only use oranges instead of lemons. 

Lemon-Potato Pie — This is made the same as 
lemon pie, only grate twO' white potatoes into the 
mixture instead of using corn meal. Get small pota- 
toes. Water can be substituted for milk. 

Pie Plant Pie — Peal the stalks and cut up thin. 
Line deep pie pans with crust, dredge the bottom 

39 



with flour. Then put a layer of fruit and one of sugar. 
Sprinkle bits of butter over the top, also a little flour. 
Cover with a top crust. Alwlays make holes in the 
top crust of any pie, to let the steam escape. 

Custard Pies — (Excellent) — Take six eggs, beat 
tliem separately. Add to the yolks, sugar to taste, one 
quart oi milk, one teaspoon of vanilla, last of all the 
beaten whites. Line deep pie pans, fill with mixture, 
put. in the oven to cook, watch closely. When it be- 
gins to cook and looks firm, stick a knife point down 
into the center; if nothing sticks to the knife, it is 
done. Be sure not tO' let it cook too long, or it will 
be spoiled. 

This custard is delicious cooked in cups, or pudding 
dish, plain or in flavor with chocolate. Set the dish 
or cups in a pan of hot water, and put them in the 
o\en to cook. Be careful not to add too much Water 
so it will boil over in the custard. 

CocoANUT Pie — Make the same as custard pie only 
use half the number of eggs and add one cup of grated 
cocoanut. Should you not have fresh cocoanut always 
soak the other in milk over night. 

Washington Pie — Make a plain cake, bake in 
three layers. When cold, fill with whipped cream, also 
put on the top. Flavor the cream with vanilla and 
sweeten to taste. This is delicious. You may use jelly, 
jams or apple sauce for fillings, or make the follow- 
ing filling : Let one cup of milk come to the boil, then 
add one-half cup of sugar beaten with two eggs, stir 
when thick, take off and let cool, then add the juice 
of one lemon. Fill your cake and put frosting on 
top, if you wish, 

40 



Ripe Tomato Pie — This is nice. Make the same 
as green apple pie. Do not let the tomatoes be too 
ripe. 

Grape, Currant and Gooseberry Pies — These 
are also nice. Scald them before putting in pies and 
do not use themi too ripe for pies. Many people mix 
raspberries with currants for pies. 

Note — Country people find all these receipts con- 
venient. 

Mince Pies — One pound of beef chopped fine, two 
pounds of apples chopped fine, one pound of currants, 
one pound of chopped raisins, one-half pound of citron 
the same of candied oranges, the grated rind and 
juice of two lemons, one pound of sugar, one quart 
of boiled cider, one-half ounce of cloves, allspice, nut- 
meg, and one pound of beef suet chopped. Mix all 
together, put over the fire and cook twenty minutes. 
Put in a jar to keep, let stand some days before using. 
Always stir when yoii take any out to use, and warm 
before making pies. Thin a little if needed. 

Cream Pies — One pint of cream, the beaten whites 
of two eggs, one small tablespoon of corn starch, 
sweeten to taste. Flavor with vanilla. Bake in one 
crust. Always mix the Qgg and corn starch together 
and then pour on the cream. You may whip the 
white of an Qgg and put on top if you desire. Then 
run in the oven and brown slightly. 

Pumpkin Pies — Cook the pumpkin tender, mash 
it through a colander. Add butter the size of an ^gg, 
the juice of one lemon. Then to each pint of pumpkin 
add one quart of milk, four eggs well beaten ; season 

41 



with ginger, and use a little salt. Cook slowly and 
well done. Another way to make pumpkin pies is to 
use no eggs, only make the custard thicker and pour 
the milk on boiling hot. Squash pies are made the 
same as pumpkin pies. Always sweeten to taste, all 
pies. 

Sweet Potato Pies — Boil the potatoes soft, mash 
through a colander. Have a pie pan lined with paste. 
Make the custard. To one cup of sw'eet potatoes add 
nearly a quart of milk, a little melted butter, four 
eggs beaten separately ; sweeten to taste, flavor with 
nutmeg. Fill the pie pans and bake. 

Dried Fruit Pies — Always soak the fruit over 
night, cook until soft, sweeten to taste and bake with 
two crusts. 

Fresh Fruit Pies — Make the same as pie plant 
pies. Another excellent dessert is to take any kind of 
fresh or canned fruit, put in a deep pudding pan, fix 
the same as any other pie. Then put on a rich top 
crust, and bake. These pies made with one crust are 
very nice desserts, and are liked by most people be- 
cause you can always use more fruit in them. 

English Apple Pies — Slice apples thin in a deep 
pudding pan, sprinkle sugar over the apples to make 
the pie the desired sweetness. Then add a sliced lemon 
and one cup of raisins and currants mixed. Put bits 
of butter on top and bake. Served cold with whipped 
cream. 

Berry Pies — These pies should be baked in deep 
tins, lined with paste. Notice the receipts for the 
fresh fruit pies. 

42 



Cherry Pies — Pit the cherries and make the same 
as berry pies. 

Banana Pie — Fill a pan with rich crust, bake first. 
Slice bananas thin over the crust in layers with 
powdered sugar. Cook only a few minutes. When 
cool, cover with whipped cream. 

Cobblers — Make a rich biscuit dough, line a deep 
pan with dough, fill with peaches, apples, or any ripe 
fruit desired, sweeten to taste and put bits of butter, 
also nutmeg or any spice desired, pour a cup of hot 
water over the fruit. Cover with a top crust in which 
several slits have been made in the top. Cook well 
done, serve hot, with sauce or cream and sugar. 

Southern Fried Pies — Use the same dough as for 
the cobbler, roll out the size of a saucer, put peach or 
apple sauce on one side and turn over. Pinch the 
edges close together and fry in hot lard. 

Cream Jelly Pies — Four eggs beaten wiell, one- 
half cup of sugar, one and one-half cups of good 
cream, one small glass of bright jelly, a little melted 
butter, the juice of a half lemon. Bake with under- 
crust. Very fine and attractive if light colored jelly is 
used. 

Tart Pies — Line the pans with good pie crust, fill 
with cranberry, strawberry or preserves of any kind, 
or jellies. Then cut strips of paste and arrange across 
the top and bake. 

Tarts — Make puff paste, line small tins or patty- 
pans, prick with a fork to prevent blistering. Bake 
and fill as needed. 

43 



Fillings for Tarts — Orange Filling — the juice and 
grated yellow rind of three oranges, one-half cup of 
sugar, the juice of one lemon, one large tablespoon 
of butter, two wlell beaten eggs. Beat well together. 
Have hot one pint of milk. Stir in the mixture and 
keep stirring until thick, then take off and cool. 

Chocolate Tarts — Make the same as orange, only 
add one-half cake of grated chocolate. 

Cream Tarts — Fill the tarts with whipped cream 
and put a little piece of jelly in the center. Set in a 
cool place. 

Cream Puffs — Two cups of hot water, one cup of 
butter. Boil together and while boiling, stir in two 
cups of sifted flour, dry. Take from' the stove and 
beat twenty minutes. After this cools, stir in six eggs, 
one at a time (unbeaten) beat again ten minutes. 
Drop in tablespoons on a greased tin and bake in a 
quick oven thirty minutes. Be careful that they do 
not touch each other, and also not to open the oven 
door often. When done, take out, let cool, then open 
the side with a sharp knife and fill with whipped cream 
or the following filling: Have hot two cups of milk, 
stir in one cupful of sugar, two eggs, two tablespoons 
of flour, well beaten together, stir until it thickens. 
Let it cool before filling the puffs. Flavor with 
vanilla. 

Cheese Cake — Slice some bread thin, pour over 
two large cups of boiling cream. Let stand until per- 
fectly soft, then beat fine. Add six eggs, one-half 
pound of butter, a little nutmeg, one-half pound of 
currants, a little rose water. Beat well together and 

44 



bake in patty-pans or small tins lined with rich paste. 
wSonie cooks use rice instead of bread, and use sugar 
also. 

Strawberry Short Cake^ — Make a biscuit dough, 
cut in three equal parts, place each layer in a tin and 
spread melted butter between. When cooked, the 
layer will separate easily. Then lay strawberries on 
each layer and sprinkle sugar on the berries. Many 
like butter as w^ell. Put on the top also, and pour all 
juice over it. Serve with plain or whipped cream, if 
you can. Any kind of fruits can be used in the same 
manner, or preserves. 

PUDDINGS AND CUSTARDS. 

Baked Apple Dumplings — Make a rich biscuit 
paste. Quarter tart apples, peal and take out the core, 
put together in shape of a cup. Roll out the paste, 
cut in strips and wrap around the apples. Stand up 
in the pan. When the pan is full put bits of butter 
on top, sugar, grated nutmeg. Sprinkle flour on top, 
add some hot water and cook slowly until well done. 
If you wish them steamed, wrap the apples entirely up 
in the paste, making an opening with a fork to let the 
steam escape. Cover tightly and steam forty minutes. 
Serve with sauce. 

RoLY Poly — Take any paste, roll o\t. thin, spread 
with berries, preserves or fruit of any kind, roll up 
and bake or steam. Serve with cream or sauce. 

Brown Betty — Fill a pudding dish with sliced ap- 
ples and bread crumbs, layer for layer, with apple on 
top. Butter and sugar tO' taste, last of all add one 
cup of hot water, cover and bake slowly three quarters 
of an hour. 

45 



Fine Peach Pudding — Fill a pudding dish full of 
sliced peaches, sugar to taste. Pour a plain cake bat- 
ter over the top. Steam or bake one hour. Serve 
with hard sauce, or any sauce you like. Apples or 
any fruit may be used in this manner. 

English Brown — One pound of raisins, one pound 
of currants, one pound of brown sugar, one pound of 
beef suet chopped fine, one pound of chopped nuts, 
one-half pound of candied orange and lemon peel, one- 
half pound of citron, a little nutmeg and cloves, five 
eggs, two pounds of self-rising flour. Put all the 
fruit and suet in a bowl, next beat the eggs light in 
the mixing bowl. Then add one quart of sweet milk, 
a little rose water, then beat in nearly all the flour. 
Hour the fruit with the rest of the flour and stir in 
the batter. If the pudding seems too stiff add a little 
more milk, if it seems a little thin add a little more 
flour. But, as a rule, it will be just right. Steam from 
five to six hours. 

Note — Rice pudding may be made without eggs. 
Cook longer and slower. Rice is nice plain boiled in 
milk or water ; drop a few raisins in the rice when 
cooked. Serve with cream and sugar or sauce. Rice 
can be cooked with peaches, apples or any fruit. Put 
a layer of fruit and a layer of rice alternately until 
the dish is full, with rice on top. Bake thirty minutes. 
Serve with sauce. Many cooks use no sugar in baking 
rice wfith fruit, but we advise you to sprinkle sugar 
on each layer. Always cook the rice first. 

Bread Pudding — Make the same as rice pudding, 
adding a little melted butter, and using grated bread 
crumbs. Another nice way is to butter slices of bread. 
Then make the custard with eggs and milk as for rice 

46 



pudding and pour over the bread in a pudding dish. 
Bake Hke rice pudding. Serve cold. Many cooks put 
a meringue on top, or whipped cream. Grated bread 
crumbs may be used with fruit Hke rice, and in every 
case will take the place of cracker crumbs. Dry all 
pieces of bread in the oven. Roll fine, then put in 
jars or bags to use when needed. 

Tapioca Pudding — Soak a cup full of tapioca one 
hour, then simmer one hour ; use milk, not water. It 
wiill take a quart. When soft pour in a pudding dish. 
Add one cup of sugar, a little butter and three eggs 
well beaten, but always beat separately. A little cocoa- 
nut improves; flavor with lemon. Bake the same as 
rice pudding. 

Corn Meal Pudding — Stir in a quart of boihng 
milk nearly a pint of corn meal. Let cool, then add 
a little wheat flour, moisten with milk. Beat well. 
Then beat four eggs, or two will do. Sweeten to 
taste. Put in spice, if liked, grease the pudding pan 
and bake three hours. This pudding of this receipt may 
be baked in cups, set in a pan in the oven. Dip the 
cups in cold water before filling. 

Batter Puddings — Make a plain cake batter. Stir 
in any fruit liked, steam from three to four hours or 
bake until done. It never takes as long to bake as it 
does tO' steam. 

Corn Pudding — Take one can of corn or a pint of 
green corn chopped fine. Add one pint of milk, some 
melted butter, a little salt, three eggs well beaten. 
Pour in a pudding dish and cook thirty-five minutes 
or less. If cooked toO' long it will whey. 

47 



Apple and Tapioca — Soak in water over two 
hours. Fill a pudding dish with apples pared and 
cored. Set the dish on the stove with a little water, 
let cook soft. Then fill up the holes in the apples 
wjith sugar. Grate some nutmeg over the top. Pour 
over the tapioca and bake about an hour. Peaches or 
any fruit may be used in the same way. 

Apple Custard — Pare and slice some apples, cook 
and rub through a colander. Add some butter while 
the apples are hot. Let cool, stir in one cup of sugar, 
three well beaten eggs, the juice of one lemon, the 
grated rind and juice of an orange. Pour in a pud- 
ding dish and bake one hour. Serve cold, with whip- 
ped cream. Many like the pudding plain. Some put 
icing on top and run it in oven a few minutes to 
harden. 

Baked Chocolate Pudding — Use this same receipt 
only less corn starch and chocolate, and one quarter 
of a cup of bread crumbs, and four well beaten eggs. 
Flavor with rose w'ater or vanilla. Bake nearly an 
hour. 

Chocolate Cups — To one quart of boiling milk use 
five small tablespoons of corn starch, one cup of sugar, 
one-half cup of grated chocolate. Dissolve the corn 
starch in cold milk with the chocolate. Put the sugar 
in the milk, first a little salt. Then stir in the corn 
starch and chocolate. Stir until thick. Pour in cups 
that have been rinsed out with cold water. Let cool. 
Turn out of the cups into a glass bowl. Pour boiled 
custard around them, and put whipped cream on top 
if you want the dish very rich and pretty. 

48 



Sago Pudding — This pudding is made the same as 
tapioca. Apple sagO' pudding is very nice; follow the 
receipt for apple and tapioca. 

Orange Pudding — Take some oranges, slice in a 
glass dish and sprinkle a little sugar over them. Make 
a rich boiled custard, let cool. Pour over the oranges. 
Whip the Wihites of two eggs with a little sugar and 
put over the top. 

Snow Pudding — Prepare gelatine as if you were 
going to make jelly, and when nearly cold, to one 
quart beat in whites of three eggs that have been 
whipped light. Beat until the whole is thick and white. 
Put on ice to cool. Serve with custard or cream. 

Lemon Cracker Pudding — One cup of butter and 
sugar creamed together, three lemons, grated lemon 
rind and juice, ten crackers soaked in one pint of milk, 
beat w!ell together then stir in four eggs well beaten 
and cook thirty-five minutes. You make a meringue 
and put over the top, or serve with sauce or cream. 

Fig Pudding — Make a nice cake batter, put in a 
pound of figs chopped fine, pour in a pudding pan, 
steam three hours, serve with a nice sauce. 

How TO Cook Steam Puddings — Take any good 
can or bucket that has a top, grease and pour the bat- 
ter in, cover tight. Set in a pot of boiling water ; put 
a tin top in the bottom of the kettle to prevent burning 
the pudding. Put a cover over the top and set an iron 
on top the cover to keep the steam in. Keep a tea 
kettle of boiling water and add as it is needed in the 
pot ; never let the pot stop boiling, This is a fine way 
to cook puddings. 
* 49 



PUDDING SAUCES. 



How TO Make Them — Always cream the butter 
and sugar together, and do not use tin spoons. 

Plain Sauce — One cup of sugar, one tablespoon 
of flour, and one of butter, rub all together smooth, 
then beat in one egg. Last of all pour on boiling 
water enough to make the required thickness. Flavor 
to taste. 

Hard Sauce — One cup of butter creamed, add two 
cups of sugar creamed well, then beat in one tgg. 
Flavor, shape and grate nutmeg on the top. Keep 
cool. 

White Hard Sauce — Make the same as above only 
add the beaten whites of two eggs. If you wish it 
gold use the yelks of the Qgg. 

White Liquid Sauce — Make the same as plain 
sauce, using the whites of two eggs well beaten. If 
you wish gold use the yolks. 

We use no wine in our cooking, and we think all 
cooking as good without. Many drunkards have their 
tastes cultivated in their own homes. Parents need to 
guard against such things. 



50 



CAKES. 

General Rules for Cake-Making — Before you 
begin to make cake, get all the ingredients around you 
on the table. Use an earthen bowl and a wooden 
spoon. Never use tin pans or tin spoons in making 
cake. Watch the oven carefully and be sure not to let 
the cake brown before it rises. There are three periods 
in baking cake. The first one is, when the cake is 
heating and rising, the second the cake should con- 
tinue to rise and brown all over. The last period, the 
cake should settle a little brown in the cracks and 
shrink from the pan. 

Always have the eggs fresh and cool, use good flour 
and baking powder. If self-rising flour is used no 
baking powder is needed, and is best for cake. This 
can be purchased in five cent packages ; a five cent 
package will make a large cake. 

Lard or cottolene can be used in making any cake, 
only use half the amount you would use of butter. 
That is, if it calls for a cup of butter use half a cup 
of lard or cottolene. 

Cream butter and sugar with the hand, then beat 
the cake with a spoon. Fruit cake is better for being 
beaten with the hand. Cream butter first, then add the 
sugar. If the butter is hard, heat the bowi by putting 
boiling water in, pour out and wipe the bowl out. 

Snow Cake — One cup of butter, two of sugar, 
whites of six eggs, one cup of milk, three and one-half 

51 



cups of self-rising flour. Notice general rules for cake 
making, the only difference being in adding the flour. 
Add the flour a little at the time; when one cup is 
added then have the whites beaten, not too stiff, and 
beat in a little of the white of the egg and a little of 
the flour ; so on until all the egg and flour is used up. 
Flavor with almond, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Hermits Cake — Cream two cups of brown sugar, 
one of butter, together, one cup of raisins chopped 
fine, a little mixed spice, four eggs, flour enough to 
roll w'ell. Cut out and bake. 

Wafers — Eight eggs beaten separately, two table- 
spoons of melted butter, two cupfuls of sugar, cream 
the butter and sugar together, add the eggs, flavor to 
suit the taste, flour enough to roll out as for cookies, 
r@ll as thin as possible. Bake in a quick oven. 

Sponge Cake — Six eggs, two cups of sugar, a little 
salt, flavor to taste. Beat the yolks light in sugar, a 
little at a time. Add flavoring. Then add the beaten 
white. Last of all add the flour. This is a fine receipt 
for sponge cake. The reason most people fail on 
sponge cake is because they beat after the flour is 
added. This must not be done in sponge cake. 

Beautiful Cake — Use the receipt as for snow 
cake. Bake in three shallow pans, frost with pink and 
white, frosting each layer. Make the middle layer 
pink. Frost the top with white. Frost and sprinkle 
grated cocoanut on top. 

Corn Starch Cake — Make the same as snow cake, 
Vising one cup of corn starch instead of all flour. 

52 



Wafers No. 2 — Make as above, using only flour 
enough to make a thin batter, drop from the spoon 
into a baking pan, greased ; flavor with vanilla. Bake 
in hot oven. 

Note — If self-rising flour is not used, use baking 
powder — one teaspoonful mixed in the flour. 

Ribbon Cake — One cup of milk, three and one-half 
cups of flour, one cup of butter, two of sugar, whites 
of six eggs. Have long, shallow pan^, of equal size. 
Divide the batter intO' three parts. Bake two parts 
nlain. Color the other part with pink fruit coloring. 
Bake and put in between the other two layers. Use 
white icing tO' stick the cakes together, and put pink 
icing on top. Many people put fruit in the third layer 
instead of coloring. 

Roll Jelly Cake — Four eggs well beaten. Beat 
separately, then together. Add one cup of sugar, one 
tablespoonful of melted butter, one cup of flour ; spread 
on a long, thin bake pan. Bake in a moderate oven ; 
spread with jelly while warm, trim the edges and roll 
up. 

Fruit Cake — Two and one-half pounds of raisins, 
twb and one-half pounds of currants, one-half pound 
of citron, one-half pound of nuts, one pound of brown 
sugar, one pound of butter, one pound of eggs, one 
teaspoonful of cloves, allspice and cinnamon, one pound 
oi flour, one small glass of rose water. Cream butter 
and sugar together, beat in eggs, add rose water. 
Then beat in part of the flour. Put all the fruit in a 
dish, flour it with the rest of the flour, beat well and 
bake in three pans in a slow oven. This cake will take 
good three hours of careful cooking'. 

53 



Coffee Cake — Use the receipt for ribbon cake ; in- 
stead of milk use one cup of coffee. 

Wedding Cake — One pound of butter, one pound of 
sugar, one of flour, two of raisins, two of currants, 
one pound of almonds, one-half pound of citron. Spice 
the same as for fruit cake, and ten eggs. Make in 
the same manner as fruit cake. 

Note — As a rule, these cakes use no baking powder, 
but unless you use self-rising flour use baking powder, 
two tea'spoonfuls. 

Plain Cake — TwO' cups of sugar, one of butter. 
Cream butter and sugar together, beat in two eggs, 
one at a time, then add one cup of milk, last of 
all, three and one-half cups of flour. Flavor, beat well 
and bake. This makes a nice pudding served with 
sauce. 

Orange Cake — Make a nice white cake from any 
nice cake receipt. Then make an orange filling as fol- 
lows: Have hot a cup of milk, stir in one cup of 
sugar and the yolks of two eggs well beaten. The 
grated rind and juice of two oranges. Stir until it 
thickens well; let cool and spread between the cakes. 
Put white icing on top, flavored with orange. 

Angel Food Cake — One cup of flour mixed with 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar and sift five times. 
Beat the whites of eleven eggs until light and flaky, 
then add one and one-half cups of sugar, granulated, 
that has been sifted five times. Flavor and beat again. 
Then mix in the flour quickly and lightly. Bake in an 
ungreased tin forty-five minutes. It is always better 
to use a new tin and keep it just for this cake. 

54 



One Egg Cake — One-half cup of butter and one 
cup of sugar, cream together, beat one egg, add one 
cup of milk and two cups of flour. Bake in long pan. 
This is a nice cake. 

Silver Cake — Two cups of sugar, one cup of but- 
ter, one cup of milk, three cups of flour, whites of six 
eggs. Cream butter and sugar until it looks like 
cream. Then stir in the milk. Add a little flour at 
the time until one cup is used. Then whip the whites 
of the eggs not too stiff and add a little at the time 
with the rest of the flour, adding the rest of the flour 
a little at the time. Flavor tO' your own taste and bake 
in the kind of a pan you wish. 

Gold Cake — Make the same as silver cake only 
use the yolks of the eggs. 

Walnut Cake — Use the receipt as for gold cake, 
adding one cup of chopped wialnuts, mixed with part 
of the flour. 

Raisin-Walnut Cake — Make the same as walnut 
cake, only add one-half cup of chopped raisins. 
Flavor all cake to suit your own taste. 

Pink and White Cake — Make the same as silver 
cake, taking a part of the batter and coloring it with 
pink fruit coloring. Put a layer of white in the bot- 
tom, pink in the middle, white on top. 

Lady Orange Cake — Use the receipt for snow 
cake, making wjhite frosting and using the grated 
yellow rind and juice of one orange. 

55 



Lemon Cake — (Delicious) — Make the same as 
orange, using lemon instead of orange. 

Note — We shall close our cake receipts here. We 
wish also to say that every receipt in our book has 
been tried. We further say these receipts are simple 
and practical, and in all receipts if you do not use self- 
rising flour, add two teaspoons of baking powder. 

Jumbles — One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, 
three eggs, flavor. Mix soft, cut out with a large 
cake cutter. Then cut a small piece out of the middle 
with a small cutter. Bake a light brown. 

Cookies — Delicious — Six eggs, two cups of sugar, 
one of butter. Cream butter and sugar together, then 
add the eggs beaten separately. Flavor with lemon 
or almond. Use flour enough to roll out very thin, 
cut with a large cutter if you wish them large and 
with a small one if you wish them small. Bake quick- 
ly to a light brown. 

Doughnuts — Cream two cups of sugar and three 
eggs together, beat well. Then add two cups of sweet 
milk, also two tablespoons of melted butter or one of 
melted lard. Flavor to taste. Stir in flour enough to 
make them stiff enough to roll out, cut with a dough- 
nut cutter and fry in hot lard. In frying any cake, try 
a piece of the dough first to see if the fat is the right 
temperature, and then keep it at an even temperature. 

White Drops — One cup of butter, two cups of 
sugar, one cup of sweet milk, whites oi six eggs, flavor 
with almond or any flavor you wish. Drop in small 
tins and bake in a moderate oven. 

56 



Lady Fingers — One cup of sugar, yolks of four 
eggs. Beat smooth. Whip the whites of the eggs and 
add flavor. Then stir in one cup of flour. Roll out 
on a board, sprinkle with sugar, cut in narrow strips 
and bake quickly. Be sure not to make them too 
large. 

Soft Ginger Bread — One cup of brown sugar, one 
of molasses, one of butter, one of sour milk, three 
eggs, a small teaspoon of soda, three cups of flour, 
make in the same way as cake, only put the soda in the 
milk. Use self-rising flour ; or plain flour may be used, 
stir one teaspoon of baking powder in the flour. Use 
ginger to your own taste, some people like more ginger 
than others. 

Ginger Snaps — Use the receipt as for cookies, only 
add molasses instead of sugar, and use two eggs. 
Flavor with ginger. 

White Icing — To the white of one egg use five 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Flavor with lemon, 
orange, rose water or vanilla. Mix the sugar and 
white or an egg together by merely stirring. Spread 
over the. cake. This mixture is nearly transparent 
and is very pretty. 

Yellow Icing — This is made the same as white 
icing, only use the yolks of twio eggs to the same 
amount of sugar. If you wish pink icing take some 
of the white icing and color it pink. This may make it 
thin ; if so, add more sugar. 

Boiled Frosting — To the white of one egg use 
one cupful of white sugar. Boil the sugar with a 

57 



small amount of water until it will string in dropping 
from the spoon. Have the white of an tgg beaten 
stiff. Stir into the boiled sugar briskly and beat until 
it is thick and cool. Spread over the cake, and let sit 
in the oven a few minutes until it is dry. 

Chocolate Frosting — Make the same as boiled 
icing, only use one-half of a cup of grated chocolate. 

Fillings for Layer Cake — Use boiled icing, mak- 
ing double quantity. If you wish nut filling have the 
nuts chopped fine and pour some of the icing over the 
nuts, spread betwieen the layers. Put icing on the top. 
Banana filling is made the same way. 

Frosting — In frosting cake dip the knife in cold 
water before frosting the cake and do so frequently 
while frosting the cake. A little lemon juice will keep 
frosting from crumbling. Some cooks use a little 
alum or gelatine dissolved in a tablespoon of warm 
water. Always let the cake get cold before frost- 
ing. If the gelatine be used in frosting brush the top 
of the cake with it before frosting. If you want the 
frosting pink use a little cochineal coloring. Part of 
the cake batter may be colored and baked in layers. 
This is very pretty. 



58 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 



Country people, before science had the place in 
the world it has now, packed eggs in some way 
we know not how, but the eggs w'ere kept through the 
winter just the same. One way of preserving eggs is 
to dip them in brine and pack them with the small 
end down in a wooden box. Always set the box upon 
sticks so as to allow a free circulation of air. Bees- 
wax and sweet oil are excellent to- preserve eggs. Use 
about one-third the amount of beeswax that you do 
of oil. The brine is made in the following way : Put 
twlo cups of slacked lime in twO' gallons of water, three 
teacups of salt, one-third of a pound of cream tartar. 
Dip the egg in grease first, then in the brine. In 
packing eggs be careful not to put new ones in with 
old ones, because they will heat and spoil the others. 

Poached Eggs — Fill a pan half full of hot water, 
add a little vinegar and teaspoon of salt. Break one 
^gg in at the time, cook three to five minutes. Serve 
on toast. 

Deviled Eggs — Hard boiled eggs, remove the shells, 
take out the yolk. Mash well, season with mustard, 
pepper, melted butter and a little vinegar. Many peo- 
ple use salad dressing. When the yolk is perfectly 
smooth, fill in the cavities left by the yolk. Serve on 
a lettuce leaf. 

59 



Pickled Eggs — Put hard boiled eggs in a jar, cover 
with boiUng hot vinegar, let stand over night. 

Spiced Eggs — These are made the same as pickled 
eggs, only whole cloves of allspice and stick cinnamon 
are used. Fill the jar full, cover tight and let stand 
six weeks. Eggs spiced are excellent with cold meats. 

Potato Yeast — Peal and grate four large potatoes, 
grate on a cup of salt to keep them from turning dark. 
Pour on one quart of boiling water, stirring all the time. 
Add a cup of sugar, let cool. Then put a cup of yeast 
or cake in. Let rise, then put in a jug. Make fresh 
every week, taking some of the old yeast to start the 
new. One-half cup will make a large batch of bread. 
This is as nice yeast as can be made. Keep the yeast 
jug clean. 

Fritters — Beat twO' eggs light. Add one pint of 
sweet milk, a little salt and sugar, flour enough to 
make a batter, drop a spoonful in hot lard and fry like 
doughnuts. If served wlith fried chicken, put the 
chicken in the center of the dish and the fritters 
around the chicken. If eaten with syrup, roll in 
powdered sugar. 

Corn Fritters, Oysters, Apple, Banana, Peach, 
Pineapple^ Rice Fritters, are all made and cooked 
the same way. Just add the corn or whatever you 
want. 

Peppermint Drops — Two cups of sugar, one-half 
cup of water. Boil five minutes. Flavor with pep- 
permint. Stir until thick. Drop on white paper (con- 
fectionary or oiled paper). 

60 



Caramels — Three cups of sugar, one and a half 
cupful sweet milk, boil until it will harden. Choco- 
late cream dropS' — one-half cupful of cream, two cup- 
fuls of sugar. Boil together five minutes, then set the 
, dish in another of cold water. Stir until hard enough 
toi make into balls. Flavor and roll the balls in melted 
chocolate. Put on paper. 

Boiled Custard — Put a quart of milk on. When 
hot, have ready well, beaten together, one cup of sugar 
and six eggs. Stir in gradually. Then stir all the time 
until it comes to a boil or thickens well, and no longer, 
or it will curdle. When cold, flavor to taste. Many 
people boil peach leaves or lemon rind, orange peels 
in the milk, then remove, adding the egg and sugar. 
Always add a little salt. 

Strawberry Preserves — To every pound of fruit 
use one and one-fourth of a pound of sugar. Put in 
a preserving kettle, fruit in the bottom, sugar on top. 
Set the kettle over a slow fire until the sugar melts, 
then boil rapidly a few minutes. Pour on large plat- 
ters and set in the svm every day for five days*, then 
seal up air tight. If this receipt is followed correctly 
the berries will look whole, red and fresh. 

Raspberry Preserves — Make the same as straw- 
berry preserves, above. 

Note — Cherries and all small fruit are put up the 
same way. A cheaper way is to use half the quantity 
of the sugar that you do of the fruit. Boil one-half 
hour, and seal boiling hot. Have the jars hot and 
stand in hot water while filling. In preserving peaches 
and pears, put the sugar on with a little water and let 
boil a few minutes. Have the peaches pared and cut 

61 



in halves, drop in the syrup, boil until a silver fork 
will go through them easily, then skim' out the peaches, 
let the syrup boil a little longer. Then put the peaches 
in the jars and pour the syrup on top. Seal up at once. 

Jelly — Fruit to make good jelly should be picked 
before it is too ripe. In making jelly scald the fruit 
and mash it well, then strain through a coarse bag, 
let drip; do not squeeze or the jelly will be cloudy. 
Never let jelly stop boiling until done. And it is al- 
ways better not to cook jellv in large quantities. Never 
use a brass kettle for boiling jelly. Set the glasses 
in a damp towel or put a silver spoon in the glasses to 
keep the glasses from breaking while filling them. 
Many people strain jelly through a flannel bag into the 
glasses; this makes the jelly a beautiful color, but 
must be dene near the stove or it will jell before it 
runs through. In making jelly use equal quantities 
of juice and sugar. Always heat the sugar first. Boil 
about twenty minutes or until it jells. Be careful not 
to cook toO' long or it will be dark. Set the glasses in 
the sun a few days before sealing. Always put a small 
piece of paper over the top of the jelly before putting 
on the top. Put a little white of egg on the paper. 

Ice Cream — (Delicious) — If you want a whole gal- 
lon of cream take nearly a gallon of pure cream, whip 
it, swieeten to taste, flavor with vanilla. Dissolve one 
large tablespoonful of gelatine in warm water and add 
or get the real ice cream powder. Freeze. 

Chocolate Ice Cream — Make the same as above 
only grate one-quarter of a* cup of chocolate and dis- 
solve it in hot milk. 

62 



Fruit Ice Cream — Make the same way, only put 
sugar on the fruit, let stand a while, then mash it 
through a sieve and then add to the cream. In all 
these creams you can use half milk. In adding milk 
use the whites of three eggs to the gallon. When 
the cream is half frozen open the freezer and add the 
beaten whites, stir down from the sides and finish 
freezing. 

Frozen Fruit — Make a plain cream. When nearly 
frozen, add chopped fruit, candy, citron, raisins and 
figs. Finish freezing. Serve with whipped cream. 
(This is a delicious dish.) 

Sherbets — To one can of pineapple use one quart 
of water, one tablespoonful of gelatine and one lemon. 
Sweeten to taste, strain and freeze. When half frozen 
add the beaten whites of two eggs. Many use some 
cream as well as wiater, but we do' not. 

Note — All fruit sherbets are made the same way. 
In making lemon sherbets use three lemons to one 
quart of water, letting the rinds stand in the water a 
short while. 

Tea and Coffee — Always use boiling water for 
both. Allow one teaspoonful of tea for each person 
and one to the pot. A French dripper should be used 
for cofifee. If you use a common pot, use ^gg shells or 
the white of an tgg to settle the coffee. 

Note — Always use fresh boiling water for coffee 
and tea. Be sure to wash and rinse the tea kettle every 
morning, and do not let the water boil over a minute 
for the tea or coffee. When water boils too long it 
becomes flat and spoils the flavor of the tea and coffee. 

63 



Mayonnaise Dressing — Put the yolks of three eggs 
in a soup plate. Have olive oil cold, beat in drop at a. 
time with a silver fork. When nearly a cup of oil 
has been used or beaten in add a little salt, a little red 
pepper and one-half teaspoon of mustard, twO' table- 
spoons of vinegar. Beat well and add a little lemon 
juice. This dressing will keep a long time on ice. The 
yolks of hard boiled eggs can be used instead of raw 
eggs. Mash them fine before mixing with the oil. 

Boiled Dressing for Salads — One cup of vinegar, 
butter half the size of an Ggg, yolks of three eggs, one 
teaspoonful of mustard, one of salt, one-half of red 
pepper. Mix well, put on the fire and let boil a few 
minutes, take off and let cool. When cold, stir in one- 
half cup of rich cream and add one tablespoon of 
sugar. Many beat in some olive oil. This dressing 
is excellent and can be used for salads. For slaw and 
potato salad it is very nice. 

Chicken Salad — Boil the chicken tender and cut 
up in fine pieces. Then cut up the celery into small 
pieces. Chopped cabbage will do if you have no celery. 
Use one-third chicken and two-thirds celery or cab- 
bage. Mix well and add the dressing. Mayonnaise 
is the best for chicken salad, but many people do not 
like olive oil. Serve on lettuce, or you may garnish 
with hard boiled eggs. 

Lobster salad or veal salad is made the same as 
chicken salad. 

Lettuce and Raw Tomatoes — Put the lettuce on 
a flat dish after it has been well washed. Put the 
tomatoes in hot water so as to remove the skins easily, 

64 



but do not let them stand in the water. Shce the 
tomatoes on the lettuce and put dressing on top. Serve 
in a course with bread and butter. 

Meat Balls — Take pieces of cold meat, grind or 
chop fine. Use one-third potatoes to two-thirds meat, 
season to taste. Make out in small cakes, roll in flour 
and fry. 

Dry Hash — Make the same as meat balls, only cook 
in one lot. 

Charlotte Russe — Sweeten one pint of whipped 
cream to taste, flavor wlith vanilla. Line a glass dish 
with sponge cake, put the whipped cream on top. Bits 
of jelly on top of the cream adds to the appearance. 



65 



MISS NORTON^S IDEA OF HOW A HOUSE 
SHOULD BE KEPT. 



Any woman who is too lazy to keep a house clean 
and in order does not deserve the blessings of having 
a good home. 

The kitchen should be the cleanest place in the 
whole house. Polish the stove, keep utensils clean. 

The house in general must be clean for comfort. 
Take the toilet water out of the rooms before break- 
fast. Open beds, let air one hour before making up, 
or longer if convenient. Every house must be well 
cleaned once a week, then light cleaning during the 
week. As a rule every other week will do for window 
washing. In washing windows never put soap in the 
water. A little coal oil is good. 

Washing Dishes — Always use plenty of good hot 
water and soap for washing dishes. Then rinse well 
in warm water. 

Wash glass and silver first. Never throw the silver 
in a pan all together, the forks scratch the knives and 
spoons. Keep clean dish cloths and towels. 

TABLE CLOTLIS AND NAPKINS. 

The napery of a table does more to make a meal 
attractive than anything we may cook and serve. The 
fashion of using table cloths and napkins is very old 
and widespread. The Japanese and Chinese mag- 
nates use elegantly embroidered and fringed silk nap- 

66 



kins, which by some process unknown to us, they 
wash and restore to their original beauty. 

The early Italians had elegant lace-worked napkins, 
which cannot be rivaled to-day. The best m^al will be 
ruined by soiled and wrinkled linen, and the plainest 
and simplest meal will gain a certain attractiveness 
from smooth and spotless table cloth and napkins. 
Colored fruit napkins, placed beside the finger bowls 
on the dessert plates, are brought in with the fruit, the 
other napkins having been removed by the waiters 
with the dinner dishes. These fruit napkins are taken 
from the plate, spread across the knee, or laid at the 
right hand ready for use. Never use little doylies 
which are brought in at the same time ; they may be 
admired but should never be used. They are for orna- 
ment merely. 

Table linen which is not being used should be care- 
fully folded and laid awiay in a drawer or chest. But 
if left long at a time should be washed and aired to 
keep it from becoming yellow. A good bleaching on 
the grass is an excellent idea. 

When the table linen is stained with cofifee, tea, or 
fruit always pour boiling water on the stains before 
putting in soapsuds. The best way tO' remove the 
stain is to place the part stained over a bowl or pan, 
and slowly pour a stream of boiling wlater on the spot 
until it disappears. 

Table linen should not be washed with other cloths, 
and should not be boiled ; rub in clean, warm water. 
Shave soap in thin strips and strew over it, cover with 
boiling water, let cool, then rinse thoroughly in plenty 
of wlater and hang up tO' dry. When thoroughly dry 
put into a tub of water slightly warmed, and with a 

67 



few lumps of starch dissolved in it, then wring again 
and allow to get about two-thirds dry. Then it should 
be snapped well, folded straight and pressed with 
hot, heavy irons. This will keep linens looking well 
all the time. 



68 



RULES OF ETIQUETTE. 



ETIQUETTE OF DANCING PARTIES. 

A large number of the Colored race is conscien- 
tiously opposed to this form of amusement, but I am 
not. It is no part of my purpose to discuss the ethics 
of dancing. I may say, however, that the prejudice 
against this form of amusement is passing away. The 
people who do^ not believe in dancing are not to be 
sneered at but should be respected ; none but ill-bred 
people will ridicule them because every one has a right 
to think as he pleases. My advice to young ladies is 
never tO' attend mixed dancing parties, nor go to 
balls unless they are given with great care. And in 
dancing with youijg gentlemen hold yourself at a re- 
spectable distance. The round dance of the day is in 
my mind vulgar. 

Dancing, like all other amusements, if managed in a 
proper manner, I am not prepared to say is harmful. 
Invitations to dancing parties should be sent from ten 
days to three weeks in advance. 

The idea of the mixed dance is the dance where all 
classes of people are likely to attend. 

ETIQUETTE OF PUBLIC PLACES. 

All well-bred people should be polite at all times 
and in all places ; this includes both equals and in- 
feriors. We cannot of course touch on all the little 

69 



points which arise in the daily contact of individuals ; 
we will endeavor to mention the more important of 
those well-established customs of good society which 
should be observed in public places. 

STREET ETIQUETTE. 

When a funeral procession is passing, do not at- 
tempt to cross the street between the carriages. This 
is disrespectful. When walking on the street keep to 
the right. A gentleman walking alone, however, 
should give preference, when it would be acceptable, 
to ladies, elderly gentlemen or any one heavily bur- 
dened. A lady does, not take the arms of two gentle- 
men at the same time. When two gentlemen walk 
with a lady one should gO' on each side. If it is rain- 
ing and the party has only one umbrella the gentle- 
man should give the umbrella to the lady. 

ACQUAINTANCE. 

On meeting acquaintances on the street, bow the in- 
stant the eyes meet. A bow necessitates no- further ac- 
quaintance, and a cut direct should not be given with- 
out good reason. 

It is not considered good form to introduce your 
companion tO' every acquaintance you meet when 
walking, or in the street cars or elsewhere. 

These indiscriminate introductions serve no good 
end, so they are needless. 

Introductions should be desired before they are 
given. 

In country districts the custom of bowing to the 
strangers you meet in passing along the road is very 
polite, and strangers are pleased with such a courtesy. 

70 



ETIQUETTE FOR GENTLEMEN. 

A gentleman walking- with a lady offers her his 
right arm. There was an old custom oi offering the 
left arm which arose in the days when a gentleman 
kept his sword arm free to protect himself, or the 
lady he escorted. The passing now, however, is all 
tO' the right. 

It is no longer the custom for a lady to change from 
one side to the other in crossing the street, unless she 
would be better shielded by so' doing. 

The custom of giving the "wall" or "inside" to a 
lady, arose in olden times when sidewalks w^ere un- 
known, and such a custom was needed to shield the 
lady, but it is out of date now. 

Try tO' keep step when walking wlith another. 

A gentleman walking with a lady offers her his arm 
in the evening. 

A gentleman does not offer a lady his arm in the 
day time, as any public parade of attention is bad 
form. 

A gentleman precedes a lady in going through a 
crowd, thus opening a path for her. 

On entering a door a gentleman holds it open while 
the lady enters first, and this is true even if he is not 
acquainted with the lady. 

In going up stairs the gentleman goes first ; in 
going down stairs the lady takes precedence. 

When a gentleman walks with a lady, the lady has 
the privilege of selecting the route. When a gentle- 
man meets a lady on the street with whom he wishes 
toi converse he should turn and walk with her, in- 
stead of standing on the sidewalk and obstructing the 
passage for others. 

71 



He should bow and lift his hat when he leaves her. 
It is ill-bred to refuse to return the bow of a lady 
who salutes you. 

If she is a stranger she may have mistaken you for 
some one you closely resemble, and to return the bow 
relieves her of embarrassment. 

A young man returns the salute of an elderly gentle- 
man. Always respect age. A gentleman always re- 
turns a bowl made to a lady he is escorting, whether 
acquainted or not, with the one who bows. When 
entering stores gentlemen do not remiove hats, ''but it 
is good form" to remove them on entering an elevator 
where there are ladies. Any little acts of politeness 
that are tendered ladies, such as picking up a package 
that one has dropped, or other similar acts of courtesy, 
should be accompanied by lifting the hat. A respect- 
ful salute gives grace to the attention. 

A gentleman may assist a lady who is a stranger, 
with propriety, in crossing a slippery, or muddy street. 
And he may precede or follow her as most convenient. 
Gentlemen do not offer to shake hands with ladies on 
the street. If the hand is offered, let the lady make 
the first advance. And it is not necessary to take off 
the glove, nor make any apology for not doing so, 
such as, "excuse my glove." This is out of date. 

No gentleman will stand on the street corner, or in 
any public place and gaze at ladies, nor will they turn 
and stare at a lady. 

Should you stop another gentleman to speak to 
him, step to the side of the walk, out of the way of 
passers-by. 

A gentleman w/ho is smoking removes the cigar 
from his mouth before saluting a lady. No true gen- 

72 



tleman will smoke in any place where it will be 
offensive to others ; to puff* smoke in the faces of oth- 
ers is very rude. A refined gentleman will not smoke 
when walking on crowded streets; neither will 'a gen- 
tleman haw]k and spit on the streets, and never when 
walking with ladies ; if he must spit, he goes to the 
edge of the sidewalk and spits in the gutter. 

Gentlemen should not chew gum on the street, it 
looks ill-bred and idiotic. Fruit eating in public places 
is not much better. Do not carry an umbrella, or 
cane under the arm horizontally, or in any way that 
will endanger the eyes and comfort of others. Al- 
ways apologize if you run against others. Avoid 
annoying others in any way, at any time. 

Gentlemen should always be considerate of ladies 
and carry their packages, help them adjust their wraps, 
or assist them in any other way they can. 

Gentlemen should not dispute with hack drivers in 
the presence of ladies ; to do so is very rude. Take 
their numbers and report them to the proper authori- 
ties. This is the better way to do at any time. 

Gentlemen do not cross in front of ladies on the 
street, nor join them to walk with them unless they 
first ascertain that it will be agreeable. 

ETIQUETTE FOR LADIES. 

Xo true lady will seek to attract the attention of the 
other sex on the street, or form their acquaintance 
there in any wiay. To do so would forfeit all claims 
of a lady, and would justify a suspicion of her virtue. 
Neither should she render herself conspicuous. To 
wear showv dresses, or brilliant colors, on the street 

73 



is not good form. The tendency is toward quiet and 
simple attire for street wear. 

Public flirtations are both rude and vulgar, and 
thev are also dangerous. The ladies in America are 
allowed great liberty, but they should avoid even the 
appearance of evil. 

Xo lady should ever venture out in the business 
streets of large cities alone after dark. ^lore freedom 
may be used about such things in small towns and 
suburbs. A lady can easily inquire and find what the 
local rules of society are. It is always better to be 
careful in such matters rather than be looked on as 
being bold. 

Xo lady has a right to demand the services, or at- 
tention of friends : when voluntarily tendered they are 
courteous, to be graciously acknowledged with thanks. 

It is rude in any one to shout, or call, across the 
street, but ladies should never do so. Walk up to the 
person and say what you have to say. 

A lady has a perfect right to refuse to answer a 
gentleman who calls to her on the street. This can 
be done with perfect propriety, and it is no mark of 
refinement to call to people anywhere. For a lady to 
run across the street in front of a carriage is danger- 
ous and undignified. It is very ill-bred to chew gum 
on the streets, or in public places. 

Young ladies always return the bow of an elderly 
lady ; respect for age is one of the first marks of good 
breeding. In meeting older ladies in a doorway al- 
ways allow them to pass in first. 



74 



CONDUCT AT CHURCH. 

We are very much inclined to express ourselves too 
freely on the subject of church conduct. Churches 
are dedicated by those who build them to the worship 
of God. The congregation attends with devout and 
reverent spirit, and those who entertain a different 
faith, or who regard all religion with indiff'erence, 
should carefully refrain from doing anything to wound 
the sensibilities of the worshippers. Any kind of bad 
conduct betrays a nature utterly coarse and ill-bred. 
Strangers takins: a vacant pew should go to the further 
end, to allow room for others who may come later. 
A gentleman does not now step into the aisle to allow 
ladies who are strangers to enter the pew, but he re- 
tains his seat beside the lady he escorts, moving along 
to make room for newcomers. 

The place for a gentleman's hat is under the seat, 
when there is room for it in that place, and, as a rule, 
there is. But I say to the ladies do not hold a gentle- 
man's hat. 

Complv as far as possible with the ceremonies ob- 
served bv the congregation. If anything strikes you 
as being grotesque or funny, do not smile to indicate 
your feelings to others while in church. Always 
maintain a quiet and decorous manner while in the 
place of worship. 

Do not turn around to stare at others, or watch 
the choir, or appear anxious to see who is coming in. 
Do not scrutinize the clothes of others nor be diverted 
bv anv little noise. Books and fans should be passed 
quietly, and accepted, or declined by simple gesture 
of the head. Courteously see that a stranger is pro- 
vided with a seat; you may invite him to enter your 

75 



pew if you have room. Ladies do not remove gloves in 
church unless for some good reason. Except in case 
of necessity, do not leave church until the services 
are over, nor begin preparing to leave until after the 
benediction is pronounced. Then leave the room 
quietly without stopping in the aisle to converse with 
acquaintances. Those who visit a church merely to 
see it should go when no services are being held. 

SCHOOLROOM ETIQUETTE. 

During childhood a large part of the time is spent 
in the schoolroom, under the direction of the teacher. 
The characters and habits of the children are forming 
at this period, and many of those in the public schools 
have very little instruction in politeness at home. 

We, as teachers, have powerful influence over them, 
bv taking pains to teach the pupils the common rules 
of politeness which will be a benefit in after life. All 
teachers should be polite and kind to pupils ; this does 
not mean that we should not be sharp at times for 
nearly any pupil will need a sharp talk at some time 
during a school year. When pupils never get angry 
at the teacher it will be no question with wtell-thinking 
people that he or she is not much of a teacher. Pupils 
should be taught to come to school with clean hands 
and faces, hair combed, nails and teeth clean, and 
clothes as neat as possible. The schoolroom should 
be kept as neat and attractive as possible, and require 
the children to wipe their feet before entering the 
room. Also teach them to open and shut the door 
without needless noise and to enter and cross the 
room quietly. 

76 



We must all be patient and pray for Divine Grace 
in working with pupils. We must study them and we 
will find by careful study that the same method of 
managing one pupil will be an utter failure with an- 
other. Kindness and gentleness, as a rule, will manage 
nearly all pupils. 

Teachers should be Christ-like in all their work w*ith 
pupils. Christ forgave; he was loving. He came to 
save the world and so we are to save every pupil we 
can. We must teach them not to make use of slang, 
falsehoods, selfishness, profanity, vulgarity, egotism; 
but only the things that will make noble men and 
women are to be thought of or practiced. This means 
thought and work, but God wjill bless all good work. 
Our pay comes from God and God alone. It is he 
who knows our hearts. 

ETIQUETTE OF THE HOME. 

Of all the civilizing influences at work marriage is 
the most powerful and important. Take away the 
refining and elevating influence of the home, and 
men would soon relapse into barbarism. Marry for 
love and love alone and let your marriage be a life- 
long companionship, based on mutual confidence and 
respect. Let there be nothing but perfect fidelity to 
each other. This will make the cords of love strong, 
but any attempts at deception will, just as sure as the 
world stands, weaken the ties of affection, and before 
you are aware of it the foundation of wedded happi- 
ness will be gone. Look on anyone who' comes to 
you with any complaint about your lifetime compan- 
ion as being an enemy. The writer cannot speak from 
any personal knowledge on the subject of marriage. 

77 



She will write on the subject of marriage as she 
feels in her own heart and as she has thought it out 
in her mind. Secure a home of your own and then 
make it the best place to you on earth. This can be 
done by being neat and clean in your own appearance, 
by having the home spotlessly clean, with good cook- 
ing, and prompt about meals. The wife should be 
economical and prudent. 

A man struggling for a start in life will be handi- 
capped if he has a wasteful and extravagant wife, who 
cares for nothing but dress and runs about, rather 
than staying in the home trying tO' be a real helpmate, 
encouraging and sustaining him in his struggle. 

The reader will please pardon this personal refer- 
ence. I remember seeing my father come home raging 
over something that happened in the business world. 
My mother took his arm, walked to a room, sat him 
down in a chair. Then she went and made him a cup 
of tea, and said, "Here, dear, drink this and you will 
feel better." Just such women as my mother was, have 
helped to make the w)orld what it is to-day, and it 
lies within the power of the coming generation to 
make it what it will be in the future. 

The husband has his part to do also. By giving his 
wife his confidence and arousing within her a sense of 
responsibility at the outset of married life, he can help 
to develop her character and fit her for her work. 
Do not interfere with her in her own domain. Praise 
her when she looks neat and acts wisely, and like 
most women, she will take pride in doing her best. 

In governing and training the children there must 
be perfect harmony betwieen the parents. Any clash 
of authority or allowing children to appeal from one 

78 



to the other will destroy all government and be a seri- 
ous detriment to the children. 

Parents should demand perfect obedience but a uni- 
form and pleasant manner should be maintained that 
will allow their exuberant spirits much liberty with- 
out running over the line with them. Children are 
quick to notice and they can read you quicker than a 
grown person can. The best way for parents to do 
is to set them a good example ; that will do more than 
words. 



79 



HELPFUL TALKS WITH THE FAMILY. 



TALKS TO MOTHERS. 

Very few mothers fully realize the importance of 
beginning early in life to train children. The char- 
acter is then easily moulded. 

Children, like the young of all animals, are imitative, 
and if they can only be started right in the journey 
of life they will be saved much trouble, mortification, 
and suffering in later years. One writer has said, 
"The time to begin tO' train a child is before it is born." 
A mother once asked a clergyman when must she 
begin to educate her child. ''How old is he?" asked 
the clergyman. "Three years," replied the mother. 
"Then you have already lost three years," was the 
answer. Easy and graceful manners come by having 
good and refined training early in life. In the colored 
race there is a great tendency on the part of some 
mothers to be cross and impatient. When they should 
take their children into their hearts and listen to their 
complaints and console them, they drive them away. 

And you will often hear this, "Go on away. I am 
tired, I got no time to listen to your foolishness." 
Children are sharp; as soon as they find their mother 
will not let them open their hearts to- her they will 
soon seek some one that will listen to them, but this 
one thing has caused many a girl tO' fall, boys to 
wander in the streets and become rascals from per- 
haps no other reason than this one ; that they were not 

80 



loved and taken IntO' the hearts of their fathers and 
mothers. An excellent plan in training children is to 
listen to them talking and playing among themselves, 
without their being conscious of your noticing them. 
By doing this you will find just what the child has in 
mind, and you will know just where to put your train- 
ing ; the kind of training they need. Again, you will 
hear a mother say, ''I have no patience wtith children." 
How sad for any mother to say she has no patience 
with her own child. 

Mothers talk to your girls, teach them to keep noth- 
ing from you, teach them that anything mother can- 
not know), no one else has a right toi know. Mothers, 
do not scold your girls when they tell you wrong 
things that they have done, but love them, talk gently 
to them, love them in the wrong as well as in the 
right. Help them to overcome their weak points. Do 
not throw their faults before them all the time. Dis- 
cipline them when they need it, but be sure you do it 
at the right time and in the right place. Teach them 
to be neat and to be prompt about meals and any duty 
they have to perform. The writer has a friend who 
is grown and married who says she never can forget 
an unjust punishment, she received from her mother. 
She says that after her mother found out she had 
punished her unjustly, she never told her that she was 
sorry. Parents! need to be careful not to prejudice 
their own children against themselves for such a thing 
can be done. 

The wise men of the world are turning their minds 
toward the study of girls and boys. They know 
that they are training men and women who' have to 
rule the world later on. Any mother or teacher who 

81 



neg"lects to make a study of the books written by 
these men, cannot, according to the science oi the 
times, do justice to their children. They will also find 
themselves a back number before many years. This 
age calls for hard study and thought from people 
who wish to make their mark in the world. Mothers ! 
make your home pleasant both for your husband and 
children. Be neat and clean around your family; al- 
ways be neat when it is time for your husband to come 
home. Doi not put cares upon him from which he can 
be relieved. He makes the living for the family ; that 
is care enough. Let his hours at home be as pleasant 
and free from care as possible. 

Mothers should be very careful about the language 
in the home. The tongue gives much trouble ; we all 
need to think more and talk less. Many girls become 
gossipers and tattlers just from hearing their mothers 
gossiping and talking about people in the home. Do 
not allow your girls to bring you tales about things 
that belong to others only. 

Of all contemptible people in the world, the per- 
son who tries to harass or make other people's lives 
sad or difficult is the most contemptible. God will whip 
them ; they will be beaten with many stripes. Mothers, 
teach your girls that they will have tO' meet such people 
in life ; teach them also not to try ''to get even," as the 
common term goes, but to leave it to God. He will 
measure to every man justice. He will send blessings 
for the good we do, and punishments for the wrong. 

You will find more of the ''pulling down spirit" 
among the colored race than any other people, but 
this is not to be wondered at. And it will take years 
of education and culture to train it out of them. Now 

82 



we know what our great sin is, and whenever we find 
ourselves giving way to such things think of this, 
Where there is union there is strength. The Jndians 
are not a civihzed race, but they have long ago found 
out that there was strength in union. Mothers, talk 
all these things over with your girls and help them 
to overcome them. Teach them not tO' want certain 
things because others have them, but tO' be contented 
with what they have. Teach your girls to be kind 
and polite to every person, and not to^ look on poorer 
girls as not being their equals. Keep before them 
that virtue wjill lead in the long run — that if a girl is 
pure, even if she is poor, she has a chance to rise, 
whereas the girl with money, if she is haughty, God 
may take it all from her some day. It is no mark of 
culture to pretend you do' not know people when they 
are respectable; even if they are not in as good cir- 
cumstances, as you are, they may be your superior by 
birth and blood. Such things are nearly always done 
by people who are not very sure of their position in 
life. 

Teach your girls not to boast of their own achieve- 
ments. Teach them early what to do with their hands 
and how to talk and walk quietly — not to shout and 
call around the house. Teach your girls that work is 
honorable, that riches are uncertain, and incompetence 
is the beginning of crime. If a girl never has to work 
she needs the training for discipline and development 
of character. The mother who teaches her girl that 
wjork is a disgrace is simply laying a foundation for 
her ruin. If you read the life of some great men and 
women, you will find they worked, and they were not 
ashamed to work. A lazy, idle woman is not a woman 

83 



to be looked up to in any way. They are always 
selfish, hateful, mean, and gossiping. You study such 
people — you will find nothing Christ-like about them. 

Harriet Beecher Stowe has left her imprint on the 
nation and she was disciplined and developed by labor. 
Still labor wtill relieve anyone from the certain evils 
that follow idleness. We wish to say to the mothers : 
if you have a child who is inclined to be wild, the best 
cure for that kind of child is labor. We also say to 
parents : let no child look forth to a life of idleness ; 
make them think that they have to do something to 
help themselves. Teach your girls to sew, paint, make 
fancy work ; these things go tO' make a beautiful home. 

Our whole life is a school and as the saying goes, 
''The early bird catches the worm," so it is with our 
lives : if begun by work and diligence they will be 
a success ; spent in efifort for good, w^e can make our 
fnark in life and men will call us blessed. 

When your girls are old enough, teach them how 
to entertain young men, also- how to be dignified and 
lady-like in the presence of young men; not to allow 
them to put their hands on them, or hit them with 
fans, handkerchiefs, etc. Teach your girls not to keep 
late hours unless in company with an older person, 
and not to ride late at night with young men alone. 
There may be no harm in the ride, but these things 
often bring unjust criticism. 

Teach your girls to seek the best things in life. 
Anything that has no good moral is not worth your 
notice. Teach them never to say unkind wtords about 
other girls to young men ; this is not only an unkind 
thing to do, but an intelligent young man will have 
very little respect for such girls. Teach theiri to 

84 



converse well ; it is a great accomplishment. Teach 
them to be nice in all places and at all times, but be 
careful not to be toO' prim and precise because that 
does not show gracefulness nor good breeding. In 
the conclusion in our talks to mothers we hope some 
good thoughts may be gotten out of them. 

We further wish to say, girls, and boys, must be 
early brought to Christ. This will build the founda- 
tion for all teachings mentioned above. The boy or 
girl without Christ has no foundation on which to 
W'Ork; without a foundation all things are uncertain. 

TALKS TO GIRLS. 

The girls of the colored race are fast making their 
mark in the educational, professional, business and 
domestic world. Yet we who love and take girls into 
oitr hearts, see many things to which we should call 
their attention. 

The first point we shall mention, is the boarding 
school life. In nearly all colored families who are 
striving to educate their girls at a very early age, the 
girls are sent away to boarding schools. 

The reason of this is, in many cases, both parents 
work to help toward the education of their children; 
soniie other parents feel that the girls are better dis- 
ciplined than they wtould be at home. We wish to 
say to the girls on entering the boarding school, be 
careful about the kind of eirls you take for associates, 
because in all boarding schools you will find girls who 
are not studious, they are not particular about coming 
directly under the Christian influence that is found in 
the universities of the South. We plead with girls 
who wish to obtain the respect of their teachers, also 

85 



r. high standing in their classes, to shun such com- 
panions. You will never know, until it is too late, the 
harm they can do you. One can always treat people 
courteously without being at all familiar with them. 
One great weakness of the girls in colored boarding 
schools, is to be notoriously jealous of each other. 
This one thing brings about more trouble than we 
care to mention. Girls, cultivate yourselves, abhor all 
things that are degrading, they only help to keep you 
back in life. Look over the faults of girls, and look 
down into the heart for some good points ; you will be 
sure to find them. Girls in boarding schools spend 
too much money. Learn to economize; you will find 
you spend money for things you could just as well do 
without. Work to be the best in your classes ; be 
polite and lady-like at all times. Think of your op- 
portunities ; if once lost, they are seldom gotten back. 
Let your manner be such that the other sex will have 
the utmost respect for you. Do not neglect the re- 
ligious part of your life. Respect the girls whose 
religious views are different from your own. The 
God-life is the only life for the girl who wants to be 
of any use in the world. 

We call the attention of the girls to making young 
men presents, and receiving presents from young men. 
Girls, do not make young men costly presents, nor 
allow them to make you a present of anything more 
than flowers or books, unless you are engaged or 
closely related. To offer articles of jewelry or dress 
is an offense. No modest, dignified young lady would 
accept them. She should civilly, but firmly, refuse to 
become their debtors. If an engagement is broken re- 
turn everything in the way of presents. 

86 



Girls, do not be in a rush about becoming- engaged 
and getting married ; be sure you make young men 
understand that you are not Hke rotten apples, all 
ready to fall off the tree, but make them think you 
are up in the tree and you are hard to get. Always 
treat young men politely, but do not be flip or fast in 
your manner. Never flirt with any young man ; if you 
only like him as a friend, let him know that ; if he is in- 
clined to think more of you than a friend, and you 
don't w'ish him to do so, withdraw your friendship. It 
is a very dishonorable, low-down thing, to tamper with 
a man's heart. Any girl who does such a dirty trick 
will receive her punishment. There is no harm in 
accepting little courtesies from young men, but be sure 
you thank them politely, and let the courtesies stop 
there. 

Girls, do' not gossip about each other nor carry tales ; 
control your tempers. A temper shows force of char- 
acter when used in the right way; if not used in the 
right way it shows weakness. Stand for your rights 
and let no man deceive you. Learn to think for your- 
selves, and toi think clearly. When ladies you will 
have positions w^here it will call for hard, careful 
thinking. Sit down and think your work out for your- 
selves instead of getting other people's opinions. 
Your work will be much more successful than if you 
try to use someone's else brain in your work. Advice 
is good if given in the right way from people who 
know more than you do, but, as a rule, careful thought 
beats any advice. Girls, be polite in shopping. Think 
of your needs before going intO' the store; buy just 
the things you wjant and nothing else. Clerks have 
a way of trying to put things off on colored girls ; 

87 



they think they have no more will power than to buy 
as long as they have a cent. This may be true of some 
of them, but the reason for it is, that many of the 
mothers and fathers had their wills broken when they 
were children, and another reason is few fathers and 
mothers are educated to the point of knowing how to 
train the will of the children in the right direction. 

The white race do not all know how to train the 
will. Training of the will is a new feature in the 
educational wt)rld. Mothers, study and learn how to 
train the wills of your children instead of breaking 
them. 

Girls, be careful about the company you keep ; never 
get too friendly with anyone, and you will always 
have more friends. The reason most colored people 
are always *'at outs," is because they get too friendly. 
It is better to hold most people at a distance. Girls, 
do not argue, avoid heated discussions, never argue 
religion, never show temper in public places. Do not 
buy a lot of cheap clothes ; it is better to have one good 
dress, than a lot of cheap ones. Never buy or wear 
cheap jewelry. Do not w'ear other people's clothes. 

Do' not talk about your family or your own business 
to other people. Never make sharp, satirical remarks. 
Do not ask other girls questions about their own busi- 
ness. In conclusion, we wish to say you will meet 
many hard places in life ; learn tO' walk over them. 
Make all of yourselves you can and God will bless 
you. Also keep in mind if no other point in our book 
be thought of by you, that your virtue is the greatest 
gift that God has ever given to woman. Therefore, 
let nO' man rob you of God's great gift. The woman 
who lives a public, evil life is better than a pretended 
pure woman. 

88 



TALK TO FATHERS. 

We have said many things in our talks to mothers 
that we intend for the fathers also. The world looks 
on the girls as being trained by the mothers more 
than by the fathers. The question arises in our minds 
whether this is justice to the mother. After a great 
deal of careful thought we have decided that girls 
need the love and care of a mother more than boys. 
Yet we kno'Wl in some cases where the father has done 
more towjard developing and making noble women 
out of their daughters than the mother. We think, 
however, that the reader will agree with us, these are 
exceptional cases. Fathers, teach your boys not to 
smoke, chew, swear, or use bad language of any kind. 
Do this by wford and example. Teach them to take 
off their hats to girls, ladies and old gentlemen. Teach 
your boys to respect all girls, and to treat them just 
as they would want some other boy to treat their 
sister. Teach your boys to work. Make them under- 
stand that the world needs useful and good men to 
fill the places of those who have worked faithfully 
that the world might be what it is. 

God has called many of them.tO' their final resting 
places. And one by one, sooner or later, he will call 
them all. Boys, you have their places to fill. Pray 
God that you may fill them as well as they. We 
trust the world may yet produce another Shakespeare 
and another Dickens, although the world is inclined 
to think this will never be. We say to fathers, educate 
your boys, bring out the best within them. Do not 
educate the mind only, but the heart, hands and soul ; 
when all of these faculties are developed you have the 
man. 

89 



We do not advise pushing boys through college, if 
you find out they have not the ability, but find out 
what he can do and have him learn to do that one 
thing well. Doing some one thing ^vtell will always 
bring success. The person who attempts to do every- 
thing, then sticks to nothing, will surely prove a failure 
in the end. The reason the professional man succeeds 
more than other men, is because he sticks to his pro- 
fession. Teach your boys how to make money by 
honest means, then teach them how to save the money 
after they make it. Make boys remember that they 
have a great responsibility in the world. 

TALK TO BOYS. 

What shall we educate our boys for? is a question 
that often comes up in the minds of many parents. 
We believe in a college education for all boys who are 
capable of taking in a college education. 

If parents will notice their boys carefully they will 
be able at a very early age to tell the kind of educa- 
tion best suited for them. The tendency is too great 
among the colored race of trying to make nothing 
but professional men out of their boys. The boy who 
is capable of taking in a good college course, is the 
boy to educate for profession, should he show talent 
and ability for a professional education. Parents 
should not try to make a medical doctor out of the 
boy who shows talent for a brick mason or carpenter. 
School teachers can be of great help to parents and 
boys if they wish to be. If you notice a boy in school 
you can tell just the kind of man he will make, also 
the kind of an education best suited for different boys. 
The writer has a friend who, as a small boy, seldom, 

90 



if ever, played anything but church' He had two 
Httle white boy friends who played with him — they 
were the congregation and choir. Now all three of them 
are godly men and priests in the Episcopal Church. 
They were noticed by their teachers, and their parents 
were advised by their teachers to educate them for 
priests. The colored Professor of Science in Fisk 
University in a conversation to the class one day told 
us that the worst punishment he ever received in his 
life he got from his teacher because he brought a bug 
in class and wBs showing it tO' the boys in the class 
and was teUing them the kind of bug it was. This 
orofessor has mounted in his study every kind of bug 
that can be mentioned ; the study of bugs is making 
him a noted man. Had his teacher had the brains that 
the other two boys' teacher had who became priests 
she could have seen the kind of man he was going to 
be, should he be trained and educated. 

We wish to say to boys that they first must have 
an end in view, then use a means to work toward the 
same. Work, no matter how hard the struggle may 
be, until you reach the end in view. Boys need to be 
as careful about their company as girls. We do not 
believe in telling boys that their sisters have a right 
to do whatever they do, nor do we believe that God 
intends for girls to do everything that boys do. He 
did not create them that way. Boys have a strong 
desire for increasing knowledge. Remember that if the 
mind is trained in the right channel it will thirst after 
knowlledge, and you will find untold pleasures in 
getting knowledge out of every book you can, and 
from different people you come in contact with. You 
will find in a few years that you will have a won- 

91 



derful lot of general knowledge. Boys, be honorable 
in your business relations with other boys and in your 
games. 

A manly boy will make a manly man. These things 
go to make a principle, and we think the world will 
join us in saying that the man or boy without a prin- 
ciple, won't do to trust anywhere. 

Make all out of yourselves you can and do not waste 
money and time in trying to be a professional man if 
you have not the ability, but find what you can do and 
then learn how to do it well and your life will be a 
success. 

GENERAL TALK. 

As we mean to make our book practical we thought 
we could reach some people in a general talk. We 
first wish tO' mention the voice and manner in con- 
versation. The reader will agree with us in saying 
that there are no people sought after more than the 
ready, intelligent talker. To amuse, instruct, and en- 
tertain those with whom we are thrown in contact, is 
an accomplishment which is worth trying to acquire. 
Many people owfe their success in being able to con- 
verse well. The Greeks considered loud talkers low- 
bred people. 

Learn tO' control the voice, it adds much to one's 
manners in conversing. We need to be very careful 
in our conversation not to hurt others' feelings. To 
respect the rights and feelings of others is always a 
mark of good breeding. There is no' quality that 
will impress all people like modesty and simplicity. 
Whether natural or acquired, it always commands re- 
spect. If we notice we will find that where there is 
general education and culture we will find simplicity. 

92 



The very best educated people on both sides of the 
ocean live the simplest. They eat simple food. They 
are simple in dress unless the occasion calls for fine 
dressing". To' learn to wear our good clothe's at suit- 
able times is a very important thing to make a study 
of for us all. We wish to^ talk a little on the subject 
of artificial airs. There is nothing so tiresome to a 
cultured person as to look on or sit and talk with 
people full of artificial airs. Persons who practice 
artificial airs really do themselves a great injustice. 
The eyes of the world are upon us ; we need to think, 
and hold ourselves above criticism as far as possible. 

Slander and gossip is another great evil in our lives. 
**Oh ! if we could see ourselves as men see us," we 
would bow our heads in shame. We are indeed sorry 
to say that the cultured world looks on a slanderer as 
not being a good person. Slander shows an unchris- 
tian, as well as an ill-bred spirit. It also shows a 
shallow, weak mind. Slang will impress cultured 
people in nearly the same way. A cultured person 
will feel anything rough or rude go through them like 
a shock. No one but an uncultivated person will fail 
to see that slang is vulgar. 

As we are finishing up our talks, we feel that we 
must say something about the educational work being 
done in Nashville. 

We do not believe in flattering or giving compli- 
ments, because flowery language is nO' longer allow'ed. 
Nor the reputation of being profuse with praises is not 
a good one. We know, however, that judicious praise 
is a great stimulant in life ; it encourages anyone. We 
all need a little encouragement, when it is deserved, 
and if sincere, it is usually acceptable. 

93 



As the writer is a teacher in Walden University, 
she will first speak of Walden. The imiversity has 
suffered in many wiays from the effects of the fire that 
occurred in the university in 1903. We are glad to 
say the fire is a thing, of the past, and that the univer- 
sity is now in a prosperous condition. For a general 
education she cannot be surpassed by any colored uni- 
versity in the South. The boy on entering Walden, 
after finishing the College Department, may have his 
choice of the Medical, Law, Pharmaceutical, Dental 
and Commercial Departments. The girl has before 
her the English, Normal, College, Nurse Training, 
Domestic Science, Dressmaking. She also has the 
advantage of the professional departments if she so 
desires. We can conscientiously say (aside) from the 
Law Department, of which the writer knows nothing, 
first-class work is being done in all the departments. 

The President of Walden University and the Dean 
of the Medical Department are both excellent and 
godly men. They have a far-reaching influence for 
good among the students. We have Fisk, w^hich is 
another excellent university and Hoffman Hall Episco- 
pal School for Girls, which is unsurpassed for young 
girls. It is with regret that Roger Williams is no more. 
May God put it into the hearts of the people to rebuild 
the school. 

We wish to call the reader's attention to the sub- 
ject of Domestic Science. There is no art that one 
can study that has a broader influence than Domestic 
Science. You can mention no art that stands ahead 
of scientific cooking. The world is dependent on good 
and well-cooked food. What people need good food 
more than students, teachers, and professional men? 

94 



It is an absolute necessity with them in order that they 
may be able to keep in condition to do their work. 
Good cookery is the foundation of good health, but 
when food is poorly cooked it will destroy the diges- 
tion. Every woman should know how to cook whether 
she ever has to cook or not, for many reasons. Poor 
cooking- always brings contention in a home. Cook- 
ing has a place in the educational world; it also has 
a place among the fine arts. Every year brings new 
schools of cookery and new books on Domestic Science 
are published. Owen Meredith has said that men 
cannot live without cooks. The writer agrees with 
him on the subject of the cooks. But she does not 
agree with him, that we can live without science. All 
first-class cooking is based on scientific facts. The 
writer hopes, if God so wills it, that she may in time, 
be to the colored scientific wlorld of cookery what Mrs. 
Rorer is to the white scientific world of cookery. 

The End. 



95 



WALDEN UNIVERSI^TY y^ ^ 

John A. Kumler, D.D., President T'^l 

NASHVILLE. TENN. 

DEPARTMENTS 

COLLKGIATE COMMERCIAL I.NDUSTRIAI. ACADEMIC NORMAL LAW 
DOMESTIC SCIENCE MUSIC BRADEN BIBLE TRAINING 

M E H A R R Y 

MKPICAL DENTAL PH ARM ACKITICAL NVRSE TRAINING 



P. W. ADAMS 

SOLICITOR 
NAPIER COURT 

NASHVILLE : : :: :: TENNESSEE 

ALSUP & McGAVOCK 

FUNERAL DIRECTORS 
AND EMBALMERS 

413 FouKh Ave., N. NASHVILLE, TENN. 



LAY 
hotoarapher 



coo 



115 Fourth Ave., North Nashville, Tennessee . 

STAR DRUG STORE 

BOYD BUILDING 417 CEDAR ST. 'PHONE 3727.Y 

DEALERS IN 

Dru^s, Medicines, Toilet Articles 
Cigars and Soda Waters 

REED & WINSTON. Props. GIVE US A CALL 



HOFFMAN HALL 

NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE 

SCHOOL FOR YOUNG GIRLS 

INSTRUCTION is g-iven in all the subjects 
taught in the Nashville public schools, and 
the course includes sewing, dressmaking, 
cooking and all kinds of household work, 
■j The fee for board, lodging, teaching, books, 
stationery and everything needed except 
clothes, is one dollar and twenty-five cents a 
week. T The session begins on the fourth 
Monday in September and lasts thirty-six 
weeks. 

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION 
ADDRESS 

ARCHDEACON BATTY 

HOFFMAN HALL NASHVILLE, TENN. 



Negro Industrial School and Exchange 

TRUSTEES REV. J. E. PURDY, President and Manager 

S. S. Dungey S. S. Dungey, Treas. L. Works, Sec'y. We need 

W. Fleming ^__>___^^ thrifty young 

S. Mayes people and 

Alex Moore 437 and 439 eighth ave., n. . good 

Wm. Thompson NASHVILLE, TENN. citizens 

To Families Who Desire First=class Help 

Knowing the great need of competent help in homes, I have es- 
tablished a Negro Industrial School and the Industrial Exchange, 
located at 4H7-439 Eighth Avenue, North. 

This school and exchange is in readiness to furnish first-class help 
to homes whose names appear upon the register of above institution. 

We guarantee our help, and we furnish help to do all kinds of work 
in and out of Nashville, by the gob, hour, day, week or month. 

Do you want your house cleaned? 

Do you want your yard cleaned and fresh sod put therein? 

Do you want your fence whitewashed? 

Do you want your carpet cleaned? 

Do you want a seamstress? 

Do you want anything done? 

If so, call Elder J. E. Purdy, Manager. Telephone 4578. 

To register it will cost 50 cents for one year, and if needed we will 
send you help every day without extra cost. If I cannot obtain the 
kind of help you want out of my association, I will send to the coun- 
try and get it. I propose to handle nothing but first-class help. This 
is "not an employment bureau, but an association. If you desire to 
register, telephone me, as I will only furnish help to those who do. 



DR. H. 


T. 


NOEL 




Office. 411 Fourth 


Ave.. N 


Telephone 


1477 


R ESI DENCE. 903 Fifth 


Ave.. S 


Telephone 


3125-Y 


NASH VI LLE, 


TEN N. 




Ex-President A. M. A. of C. P. and S. 




Demonstrator Anatomy Meharry Medical College 





