Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



► 



u 



Tlie Arthur and EBzabeth 

SCHLESINGER LIBRARY 

. on the History of Women ■ 

in America 



Gift of 
Mary Mellgren 






A MODEL KITCHEN 

The two views sbow a model kitchen arranged for conyeDlenc 
for health and eeonomy. The floor coTered with oil cloth or tllee 
the walla papered or painted, plumbllng enellj' acccBsible, pantriei 
and capboatds ample — range of the latest pattern, and sinlis wltl 
hot and cold water. 



The economical 
COOK BOOK 



A PRACTICAL GUIDE FOR HOUSE- 
KEEPERS IN THE PREPARATION 



-or- 



EVERY DAY MEALS 



-CONTAINim 



MORE THAN ONE THOUSAND DOMESTIC RECIPES, 
MOSTLY TESTED BY PERSONAL EXPERIBNCB 



SUGGESTIONS FOR MEALS, LISTS OP MEATS 
AND VEGETABLES IN SEASON. Eve. 



-BY- 



MRS. SARA T. PAUL 



'"The turnpike road to peoxde's hearts J find 
If through their moathsi or I mistake mankind.** 

— PETEB PINDAB 



JOHN C. WINSTON COMPANY 

CHICAGO PHILADELPHIA TORONTO 



^■•i 






#■ -1 



Tbx John C* 'WivranoN Gft 

PRIimED IN THB V. ■. A. 



7(f - ^/fT 



, 



I 



CONTENT& 



IimoBucnoir I 

UnKsiiJ fo u uiBii nr nm Kitohut • • • . . 

SOUF8 m 

• 7 

Fmh • . 19 

Mmjm 



Bemarka <m BoMtiniE^ BoOiiif, tai ... 19 

Beef 90 

Matton 



44 

Lamb • • . • . 49 

^<>'k ! ! ! 91 

Veal . 99 

Skill Fuh ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ .91 

8^^^ ! ! ! ! 108 

CioQuxmsy OmLRnai Aa Kjiy 

Savci8 Ijy 

BsiAD, Cakis, to. ....,,-, , 145 

Pastbt, Ptodihw, Ao. ........ 157 

^^^ ••••.-... 219 

IciNcm, fto. ••••.... 257 

Vbvits voK Wnmi Dnasiv ....... 262 

BBTiBAcna voB TBI Tabu • • . • . .263 

fiii) 



if CONTENm, 

m 

rAffi 

PsniBmra JJTD OAiTHnrci Tbvits • • • • • 167 

PiGKun • . 287 

Food lom Intalids avd Siok ••••••. 297 

MnoiLiiAiaBOUs RioiiFTB ••••••• 306 

Idst for the Inezperienoed of the Proper Aooompani* 

ments for Meats, &o.| for Familj Dinnen • • Sll 

Breakfast Relishes 812 

Tea or Sapper Relishes •••••• 318 

WuaHTB AKB MlASVUS • • • 814 

Bill or Fam roB baoh Siasok in hem Yiab fob a Family or 

HTB OB SIX PbBSOVS • • 315 

Spring •••••••«•• 315 

Summer ••••••••• 316 

Aatnmn • • • 316 

Winter 317 

Bill or Fabb fob a Divbbb roB Foubtbbh Pssiciri • 318 



INTRODUCTION. 



Ik presenting to my friends tnd the pnblio, another ad JBtion 
to the already eofAoiu literature of Cooking, I would say that 
most of the Beoipes giyen in this work are new to the general 
publio; they haye neyer appeared in print before^ and are the 
aooumulated ezperienoe of nearly thirty years' attention to the 
subjeot 

Every Beeipe given has been eareflilly tested by either 
myself or my friends ; it has been my aim to give only those 
that are reliable and praotioal, and I have made the instructions 
so explicit that the most inexperienced housekeeper may under- 
take the preparation of her own dishes, or give intelligent 
instructions to her servants, with the certainty of attaining a 
happy result. 

To those friends whose valuable contributions have rendered 
the preparation of this work a pleasant summer pastime, I take 
this opportunity of returning my sincere thanks ; and if my 



fl INTRODUCTION. 

labon ure the meuis of smooihiiig ihe rough plaoes in hooM- 
keeping to any of thenii I duJl feel unply repaid fbr 4he 
work. 

I haye been partienlarly reqneeted to designate my own 
Beeipes, and thoee I haye been in the habit of using constantly; 
I haye marked these with a star (*); bnt I wonld say that those 
that are not so marked are, I oonsider, equally as good. 

8. T. P. 



OOOKINQ UTENSILS NSCESSABT IN A KITCHEN. 

Eyery kitohen shonld be proyided with a iish-kettle, a soap- 
boiler, a ham or turkey boiler, dripping-pans of all sises, ftom 
one large enough for a large turkey or young pig, to the little 
one for a pur of pigeons or other smiJl birds ; three French 
metal or poroelain-lined saueepans, the largest one holding a 
quart, and the smallest half a pint ; an oyal braising or stewing 
kettle lined with tin or porcelain, with a dose-fitting lid, and 
large enough to hold a leg of mutton or a pair of fowls, and 
those of a smaller siae at least six in number, all with close- 
fitting lids, for yegetables, stews and grayies ; a porcelain-lined 
preserying kettle, large enough to hold eight pounds of fruit 
with the sugar; a smaller riie for stewing oranberries, peaohes, 
or other fruit; an oyster broiler; a beef-steak broiler, and one 
kept purposely fbr broiling fish ; a fiuina boiler, for custards, 
milk, &e. ; six pie-plates made rf tin, or, what is better, of 
iron, and if you intend to haye chowder, or any kind of pot-pie 
an old*&shioned iron pot^ with doso-fitting lid. 



GOOEEBT FROM EXPEIUENGS. 



SOUPS. 



* Oyitar Bonp. 

Foe one hundred oysters boil three pints of milk and set 
•side; put the oysters over the fire half an hour before dinner, 
with a quarter of a pound of butter, half a teaspoonftd of salt, 
a small saltspoonfiil of pepper; simmer them until the oysters 
show their beards, then add the boiled milk; bring it to a boil; 
have ready four hard-boiled egg^ ohopped fine, three eraokers 
rolkdy and one head of eelery ohopped small ; put these into 
the tureen; when the soup boils, pour it over thmn and senre. 

* Oyster Soup, Vo. S. 

Btndn the juioe from one hundred oysters, put it over the 
Ire with half a teaspoonful of salt; when the seum rises, strain 
the juiee through a clean oloth or fine sieve ; boil three pints 
of milk, add the oysters and juioe, and six ounces of butter 
rubbed to a paste with a heaping tablespoonfU of flour; bring 
all to a boil, season with pepper and, if needed, a little more 
salt, and serre. 

a) 



8 aOOKEBT FROM EXPEBIBNQK 

• 01am Soup. 

Wftsh the olam dielb very oleaii, pat diem in a dripping-pan 
and set them in a hot OYen for Sye minnteBy or until the sheUs 
open; take them firom their shelb, Baving all the joioe; if the 
olamB are large, ehop them ; if the little eoft-shell elamiy they 
muflt be left whole. Boil three pints of milk, add the jnice, a 
blade of maoe, a little blaok pepper, a hard-boiled egg ohopped 
fine, a teaspoonfU of ohopped parsley, two roDed oraokers, and 
a quarter of a pound of butter mixed with a teaspoonfld of 
flour; put in the elams, give all a boil up and serve. This is 
for fifty large or one hundred small elams. 

* Moek Turtle Soup. 

Ptoeure a fine large ealf 's head and a set of feet, eleanse the 
head thoroughly, tie the brains up in a olean oloth, and put all 
together in a soup-kettle, with five quarts of oold water and a 
tablespoonfixl of salt; bring to a boU and skim well, then set 
aside to simmer slowly for three hours ; the brains will be done 
in an hour and must be taken out and set aside; when you oan 
twist out the bones, remove the kettle from the fire and strain 

to ' 

through a oullender; put the broth baek into the soup-pot; 
take out all the bones from the meat, out it in small pieoes, 
reserve a oup ftill of it and set aside ; season the remainder with 
half a teaspoonfol of blaok pepper, a teaspbonfiil of sweet mar- 
joram, the same of summer savory, an onion ohopped, a tea- 
spoonftd of powdered oloves and two blades of mace; stir all 
well together and put it into the broth; add a bunch of parsley 
and thyme, cover closely and simmer for an hour and a half; 
then strain and set away until next day. Next morning pre- 
pare force-meat balls as follows : Chop very fine a pound of lean, 
uncooked veal and a quarter of a pound of fresh beef suet, stir 
them together, add a small teacup of the brains, and the same 
of fine bread crumbs, season with half a teaspoon of salt, a salt- 
spoon of blaok pepper, half a saltspoon of grated nutmeg, a 
piece of onion the size of half a nutmeg, chopped very fine, and 
a teaspoonftil of chopped pars. ay; mix all well together; beat 



80UP& 9 

ap two 6gg8| flrfar them in ; floor your hftnds, and make into 
little balls half the siie of a walnnt, and brown them in batter 
and lard or sweet dripping to float and eover them ; drain them 
on a sieve or elean oloth, and keep them hot nntil ready to torn 
oat the soap. Take all the fat from the top of the soap, pat it 
over the fire and let it oome to a boil, pat in the cap of meat 
yoa reservedi thioken with a tablespoonfol of browned floor 
mixed in oold water ; boil five minotes longer, then add half a 
tambler of good Sherry or Madeira wine; pot the foree-meat 
balk in the toreen with two sliees of lemon, poor the soap over 

and serve. 

* A plain Calf 's-head Soop. 

After the head is thorooghly oleaned, pot it over the fire 
with foor quarts of oold water, season with eayenne and blaok 
pepper, add ten whole eloves, the same of allspioe, a small piee« 
of onion, a bonoh of parsley and one of sweet basil ; bring it tr 
a boil, skim well and set aside to simmer foor hoars ; then strain 
it throogh a oollender, return it to the soop-kettle, thioken it 
with two teaspoonsfol of sea-moss &rina mixed in oold water to 
a paste, gi«^ it a boil op, add a tableepoonfiil of browning, a 
wine-glass ^/ walnot oatsop; eot a lem<m in slices and lay them 
in the toreen, poor over them a teaoop of Port or Sherry wine, 
poor the soop over them and serve. 

• Calf s-head Soop. 

After thorooghly eleansing the head, pot it in a soop-kettle 
with a knookle of veal which has been eot into several pieces, 
season with pepper and salt, foor whole cloves and a blade of 
mace ; poor over all foor qoarts of cold water, bring to a boil, 
skim well and set aside to simmer, closely covered, for foor or 
five hoars; boil two ^gs fifteen minotes, lay them in oold water 
for five minotes, then chop them and pot them in the toreen in 
which yoo will serve the soop, with foor or five slices of lemon ; 
strain the soop, add a tablespoonfol of browning and two glasses 
of Madeira or Sherry wine, and serve. 

These three soaps, all prepared from calves' heads, are entirely 
different fironr each other. 



10 OOOKEBT FBOM MZFEBIENCS. 

* Chunbo Soup. 

Two poundfl of beef eat bduJI. 
Half a peek of okrasi waabed and out in slieea 
Tbree onions eat in ringa. 
Twc earrota grated. 
Six tomatoes oat small. 

Five eloyes ; salt and pepper; a baneb of obopped paralej. 
Five quarts of eold water. 

Bring to a boil, skim off all ibe &t and set aside to simmes 
slowly four boars, keeping it elosely oovered. 

* Oombo Soap, So. S. 

Two pounds of tbe neok of matton. 

A quarter of a peck of tomatoes, peeled and eat small. 

A quart of okras in slices. 

A few Lima beans. 

Two ears of sugar com (tbe corn cut off). 

A small onion. 

A bunob of parsley and tbyme, and pepper and salt to taste^ 

Four quarts of cold water. 

Proceed as above. 

* Oumbo Soup, Ho. 3. 

Procure a knuckle of veal weigbing five or six pounds, out it 
in small pieces and brown it in a soup-kettle, witb two ounces 
of butter ; wben quite brown, add to it balf a pound of lean 
bam, cut in small pieces ; two large onions witb tbree cloves 
stuck in eacb ; two small red peppers, two grated carrots, two 
turnips cut in small pieces, a bead of celery ditto, and salt to 
your taste. Pour over tbem a pint of cold water, let all come to 
a boil; stir tbem frequently wben tbe vegetables begin to 
brown; add a quart of okras cut in slices, eigbt tomatoes peeled 
and sliced, and a gallon of eold water; bring to a boil, skim il 
well and set aside to simmer four bours, and serve. 



aoups. 11 

*Beef Soup. 
Six pounds of shin of oeef, out into pieoes ; put it in a ptn 
with ihree ounoea of butter, brown over a good fire; take out 
the meat and put it in a aonp-ketUe, with four onions, four ear- 
rots and two heads of eelerji all chopped fine ; add a bnnoh of 
thyme, one of sweet maijoram, a few whole allspioe, four whole 
cloves, two blades of maoe, and salt and pepper to yoor taste ; 
pour on all fimr quarts of eold water, bring to a boil, skim well ; 
then set aside to simmer, elosely oovered, six or eight hours ; 
then strain ofT and set away. Next day take all the &t from 
the top, and bring it to a boil half an hour before dinner ; add 
to it a tablespoonfiil of browning and thicken with two teaspoons 
of sea-moss fiurina; boU three minutes and serve. 

*Amb«r Soupi 

Put half a pound of ham at the bottom of a soup-kettle; en 
this put three pounds of lean beef and two of veal; out in thin 
slices two large carrots, two heads of celery, two turnips and 
two onions; season with pepper (whole) and salt, a blade of 
mace and two cloves; cover the vessel elosely and set it over a 
sharp fire; when the meat begins to stick turn it over; con- 
tinue this until it begins to brown, then pour over a gallon of 
boiling water and set aside to simmer fbur hours ; skim it fire- 
quently and keep it closely covered; when donci strain it 
Uirough a sieve or fine cloth and set away until next day; take 
all the fat from the top and put it over the fire an hour before 
dinner ; when it boils stir into it a quarter of a box of gelatine 
that has soaked for an hour in a teacup of cold water; give a 
boil up and serve. 

* Brown Soup of Ohiekena. 

Out up a pair of fowls as for stewing ; season with pepper 
and salt and dust witih flour ; melt in a pan three ounces of 
butter, lay the chickens in and fry them brown ; turn all into 
a soup-kettle, pour over them four quarts of cold water, add two 
carrots, two heads of celery, one onion and three large tomatoes, 
all eut fine (if in winter, half a can of tomatoes), three cloves 



12 COOKER Y FROM E2CFEEIENCE. 

and t blade of maoe ) bring to a boil, skim well, set ande to 
simmer three hours ; add a tablespoonfid of browning, stinda 
through a oollender and serve. 

* Yermioelli Boup. 

Prooure a shin of beef, ont in three or four pieees, wash it 
▼ery olean and put it in a soup-kettle, with any trimmings you 
may have of meat or poultry, suoh as neeks, gizzards, livers or 
feet ; put on them a gallon of oold water, season with pepper 
and salt ; add a large earrot grated, a head of celery, two tur- 
nips and two onions, a bunoh of pot>herbs and half a can of 
tomatoes or three or four ripe tomatoes cut up ; bring to a boU, 
skim well and then set aside to simmer for five hours, or more, 
if the meat is not boiled from the bones ; then strain off and set 
away until next day ; then take off all the fat and set it over 
the fire an hour before dinner ; when it boils, add a quarter of a 
pound of either maocaroni or vermicelli, broken short; b<nl 
fifteen minutes after this is in it, and serve. 

* Xutton Soup. 

Four pounds of neck of mutton ; put it in a soup-kettle with 
three quarts of oold water, two turnips, four tomatoes and a large 
onion, salt and pepper, and two tablespoonsftd of pearl barley 5 
bring to a boil, skim off the fat and scum, and set aside to sim- 
mer slowly for three houxs. Keep the vessel doeely covered. 

« 

^Knueklo of Teal Soup 

Out half a pound of bacon into thin slices, and lay them cm 
the bottom of a soup kettle; on these lay a knuckle of veal 
weighing fbur or five pounds, having first chopped the bone in 
three or four places; add two carrots, two turnips, and a head 
of celery, all cut in pieoes; two large onions with three eloves 
■tuck in each, a doien black pepper oomSy and a bunch each of 
thyme, parsley and sweet marjoram ; pour over them four quarts 
cf oold water, let it come to a boU, skim it, and set aside to 
rimmer slowly, dosely Dovered, for four hours; when done, 
•tnin through a cullender, thicken with a couple of table- 



sours. 13 

•poonsful of browned floor mixed in oold water, add a table- 
spoonAil of Worcestershire sanoe, and a wine glass of tomato 
eatsnp, boil up and serre. 

* Julienne Soup. 

Procure five or six pounds of lean beef, season with salt only, 
and put it in a soup-kettle with five quarts of cold water, bring 
it to a boil, then set aside and simmer, closely covered for six 
or eight hours, or until the meat falls from the bones ; strain it 
and set it aside until next day, when carefully remove all the 
fiit from the top, add a pint of cold water, one carrot cut in 
small pieces, one turnip ditto, one potato sliced thin, two onions 
in rings, five tomatoes peeled and cut up, and half a teacup of 
barley; bring all to a hard boil, then simmer slowly, closely covered 
fi)r three hours, season to the taste with pepper and salt, or leave 
out the barley and add one root of celery out into very small 
pieces. 

* Pepper Pot 

Wash and scrape six or seven pounds of tripe, put it in a large 
kettle or pot, with a gallon of oold water, and boil it slowly for 
six or eight hours, or until a straw will run through it. In 
another vessel simmer slowly a knuckle of veal, with water to 
oover (put on it cold), until the meat separates from the bones ; 
then strain and set aside the broth. When the tripe is done, take 
it out of the water and put it away until next day ; pour the water 
it was boiled in, into a stone pot or pan, and mix with it the 
broth the veal was cooked in, and set aside until next day; then 
take all the fat from the top of the broth, and put it over the 
fire an hour before dinner ; cut the tripe into pieces half an inch 
square and put it in the broth. Peel, wash and cut into dice 
the same size as the tripe three or four potatoes, and add them 
to the tripe, with a tablenspoonful of sweet marjoram rubbed fine, 
a bunch of parsley and thyme, and pepper and salt to your taste ; 
boil all together for fif%ieen or twenty minutes, have ready dump- 
lings made with prepared flour, mixed with water and a little 
salt and a tablespoonfoi of lard ; roll them out and out the same 



U QOOKEEY FROM EXPEBIENOS. 

liie as tlie tripe, dust^ them well with flour to prevent their stiiok- 
iiig together, and put them in ten minntea before the soap is 
done boiling. 

* Mutton Brofh. 

A shoulder of mutton weighing four or five pounds, have the 
^ints cracked, but do not out it up ; put it in a soup-kettle with 
two tableepoonsful of rice, and three potatoes, peeled, washed 
and cut up ; season with pepper and salt, and cover with cold 
water; boil slowly for three hours, or until the meat is tender, 
but not broken. Take out the meat, but do not strain the broth. 
Serve that and the meat afterwards with drawn butter poured 
over it. Skim well when boiling. 

Ox-tail Soup, 

Three tails make a tureen of soup. Have your butcher divide 
them at the joints, and let them soak in warm water whilst the 
vegetables are being prepared. Put them into a frying-pan with 
a little butter, a carrot cut in two or three pieces, a turnip the 
same, and three' onions sliced; turn them about over a sharp fire 
until the meat is bro?m, throw in a teaspoonfril of flour to ab- 
sorb the butter, and turn all into a soup-kettle, with a head of 
celery cut in two or three pieces, a bunch of thyme and another 
of parsley, eight whole doves, half a teaspoonful of allspice, the 
same of whole black pepper, and four quarts of cold water. 
Bring it to a boil, then set aside to simmer for three or four 
hours, skim it well and keep the vessel closely covered. When 
the meat will separate from the bones take it out of the^soup, 
and cut it in small pieces, leaving out all the bones ; strain the 
soup through a cullender, return the meat and soup to the kettle, 
make a paste of two tablespoonfuls of browned flour and a little 
cold water, stir it in the soup ; boil up for five minutes, and add 
a tablespoonfril of mushroom catsup, a glass of wine, and salt to 
your taste, and serve. 

* Black Bean Soup. 

Put a quart of black Mexican beans in a soup-kettle, with 
four quarts of cold water, and any bones of cold roast beef or 



SOUPb. 15 

iiiiitt<m*or poultry; brii^; to a boil^ Bkiiii well, and simmei 
ilowly for four (ur five hoiuni, stirring frequently ; take oat the 
boneSf and strain throngh a onllender ; press the beans through 
with the baok of a wooden spoon ; this takes out the skins which 
are very tongh ; put the soup baek in the kettle, season with 
pepper and salt ; giye a boil np, add a teaoup of wine, and 
serre. Very fine. 

* Babbit Bonp. 

Cvt off the legs and shonlders, divide the body down the 
baek, and then across, wash it in lukewarm water and wipe it 
dry ; then pat it in a frying-pan with a little butter or sweet 
drippings; fry it a nice brown ; put it in your soup-kettle with 
a carrot grated, one onion sliced, four cloves, two blades of mace, 
two doien peppercorns, a bunch of thyme and parsley, two thin 
slices of bacon, and three quarts of cold water. Bring all to a 
boil, then set aside to simmer for three hours, skim it well, and 
when the meat is tender take it out, cut off that from the baok 
and upper part of the legs, cut it in small pieces and set it 
aside : take the rest of the meat from the bones and pound it in 
a mortar with an ounce of butter and two tablespoonfbls of 
flour moistened with a little soup ; when well mixed stir it in 
the soup, and let it simmer fifteen minutes longer; then season 
with salt to your taste, strain through a sieve, put in the meat 
you cut in pieces and set aside, add a tablespoonftd of tomato or 
mushroom catsup and a glass of wine, and serve. 

* Tomato Soup. 

Wash a quarter of a peck of tomatoes, cut them in pieces and 
chop them fine in a wooden bowl ; put them in your soup-kettle 
with a beef or mutton bone, or two pounds of lean meat of 
either kind, pepper and salt, and three quarts of cold water ; 
bring to a boil, then simmer slowly for three hours ; take out 
the bone or meat, and strain the broth through a fine sieve, 
pressing on the tomatoes lightly ; return the liquor to the soup- 
kettle, mix a tablespoonful of fiour with a little cold water, stir 
k in the soup, boil five minutes, and serve. 



M COOKER T FEOM EXPJbRJBNOE: 

Soup Xaign. 

Feel sad eat in snudl pieoes four white potitoee, three tnrnipe, 
three onions, and one earrot ; pat them in a itew-^paa with a 
pieee of batter the site of an egg, a qaarter of a poand of lean 
ham, and a banoh of parsley ; pat them over a hot fire fte ten 
minates, stirring them often ; then add two qaarts of hot water^ 
pepper and salt ; boil antil the yegetables will mash, then pasf 
it throagh a callender, pressing the yegetables throagh into the 
broth ; pat it into the stew-pan again ; if not thiek enoogh add 
a tablespoonfal of floar; ^ve a boil ap and serve with sippets of 
toast or fried bread. 

*OreeBL Pea Soap. 

Shell half a peek of fresh green peas, wash the pods and pal 
them in a soap-kettle with plenty of oold water ; boil antil yery 
tender, then drain off the water, throw away the pods, and pat 
the peas on to boil in the water yoa strained off; boil them 
tiiree-qaarters of an hoar, or antil they will mssh with the baek 
of a spoon ; strain them throagh a oallender, throw them baek 
into the kettle, reserving a teaoapfal, mash the remainder very 
fine with a potato masher, adding gradaally the water they were 
boiled in, whieh shoald not be mach more than a pint; add to 
this three pints of rieh new milk, and the oap of peas yoa re- 
served ; let it oome to a boil, then stir in a qaarter of a poand 
of batter in which yoa have rabbed two tablespoons of floari 
add a tablespoonfal of chopped parsley, season with pepper and 
salt, give a boil ap, and serve. 

* Split Pea Soap. 

Pick over and wash a quart of split peas, pat them in a soap- 
kettle with three qaarts of oold water, and the bones and trim- 
mings of cold rosst beef or matton, two heads of oelery washed 
and out up, two onions peeled and sliced, and a bunch of parsley 
and thyme, with pepper and salt to your taste ; bring all to a 
boil, and set aside to simmer slowly for four hours, stirring very 
often to prevent the peas from sticking and burning ; when done 
take out the bones and the parsley and thyme, which should be 



SOUPS. IT 

tied IB a Ikde buadi before diey tat put in the loap, and pretf 
the toop tkitmgh a callender with the back of a wooden spoon; 
put over the fire agam, grra a boil up, and tenre with ttppeti of 
fried bread or toast. 

This soup may be made with the little white wmtcr beans 
instead of die split peas, and is almost as good. 

Split Pen Soup, No. a. 

Pot m a sonp-kettle the bones from cold roast beef or mutton, 
wkh two quarts of cold water, a carrot cut in small pieces, an 
onion, and a head of celery cut small, with pepper and salt to 
joar taste; corer closely and simmer for three hours. Put a 
pint of split peas in a stew-pan, with three pints of cold water, 
and boil slowly for two hours, stirring them frequently to prevent 
their burning. When the soup is done, take out the bones, 
karing the vegetables in the broth; chop a bunch of parsley 
and add it, mash the peas through a cullender, add them to the 
broch, boil ten minutes and serve. 

Vegetable Soop. 

Put in a gaDon stew-pan three ounces of butter, set it over a 
slow fixe; whilst it is melting, slice two large onions cut in thin 
pieces, one turnip, one carrot, and a head of celery; put them 
in the butter, and cover them closely until they are slightly 
browned, shaking frequently to prevent their burning. This 
will take about twenty-five minutes. Have ready a pint of 
beans or split peas which have been soaked in cold water all 
night, bring them to a boil in two quarts of water. When the 
vegetables are browned pour the boiling peas over them with the 
water they are in, add two more quarts of water, bring all to a 
boil, skim it well, add to it a slice of stale bread, a blade of 
mace, two dozen allspice, the same of peppercorns; cover it 
dosely and let it simmer for three hours, strain and press through 
a cullender with a wooden spoon, return to the kettle, give a 
bofl up and serve. 
2 



18 aOOKEBT FROM BJPEElEiraX. 

Okn Soup. 

Two pounda of boef boiled in two galloiui of w»ter, well 
fkimmed while boiling; add four doien okns Blieed, one onion 
obopped fine, half a ooffeeonpfiil of Lima beanSi one small green 
pepper, six tomatoes, one teaspoonfnl of salt; eoTor the pot and 
boil fbr four boors. Before serring, add two erabs that have 
bean boiled and pioked. 

* VoiiiUoi fur Soup. 

Beat the yolks of two ^ggs, add a saltspoonfU of salt, and 
flonr to make a stiff dongh ; flonr jour pa8te*boaid, and roH out 
the dough as thin as paper, dust it well with flour, roll it up 
ekiaelj, and shave ficom the end as jou would eabbage tot eold- 
slaw, with a sharp knife dipped in flour, spread on jour board 
with a tittle flour dusted over it, and let it lie fer two houn or 
more; soatter it lighilj into the boiting soup, and let it siauner 
ten minutes, and serve. 

*Dum>Hugs tir Bsppur Fsl 

Bub into a pint of prepared flour an eivesi tabkepooa of 
good lard, add a saltspoonfiil of salt, mix into a ra&er soft do^gh 
with eoldl water, flour jour paste-board, and roll out about a 
(|uarter of an ineh in thiekness, eut in hmg strips half au ineh 
wide, and these into squares, dusting them with flour as jou 
proeeed to prevent their stioking together, drop them m the 
boiling soup and eook them teu minutes. 



Mm. 19 



FISH. 



* To boil % SalmoiL 

A tBk weighing soTen or eight pounds will require an hour to 
eook ; wieh the fish weU, lay it on % trivet in % fish-kettle, wiih 
plenty of oold water and a tablespoonfiil of ealt ; simmer it slowly 
te keep it from breaking ; when done, lift it ont on the trivet and 
set it to drain ; then slip it off on to a hot iish-dlsh, and make a 
saaoe of drawn batter, with ohopped paisley, or, if you prefer 
it, egg-sanoe; poor a few spoonsful over the iiah and the 
remainder in a sanee-boat. 

•BockKsh. 

A rook fish weighing seven or eight pounds will require half 
an hour to boQ ; put it in eold water, with a teaspoonful of salt; 
lay it on a trivet in a fish-kettle, simmer slowly, and when the 
fish is done, lift it out on the trivet, set it to drain ; serve on a 
hot dish, with egg-sauee— a little over the fish, the remainder in 
a anuee-boat ; garnish the fish with sprigs of parsley. 

*CodKah. 

A fresh eod requires about the same time to eook as a roek 
fish ; prooeed as above, always remembering to put the fish on 
in odd water, suiKoient to eover it, and simmer slowly, or the 
fish will break to pieoes ; serve with egg or oyster sauoe, and 
garnish with parsley. 

* Haddoek. 

A haddoek of seven or eight pounds will require a little over 
half an hour to boil ; lay it on a trivet in a fish-kettle and oover 
with oold water ; throw in a tablespoonful of salt, and simmer 
slowly, And serve with egg-sauooi drawn butter with little 



M COOKEBT FROM BXPERIKNCB. 

diopped panley in it| or ojBtor«iiioe ; gptfnidi ihe disk wikk 
■prigB of pwaley. 

•Baked Shad. 



Wlien ft fish is to be bftked, it Bhonld be emptied thnnigli the 
gills, ftnd the head left on it. When this is done, weah the tmk 
perfectly eleftn, ftnd prepare a filling of finely-grated bread 
enunbe, enffioient to fill it ; seaaon them with pepper and salti a 
small onion chopped fine^ a tablespoonfiil of chopped paisley and 
half a teaspoonfnl of sweet marjoram. Melt a piece of bntter 
the siie of an egg, and ponr oyer the crombs, after they have 
been well mixed with the seasoning \ stir together with a knife ; 
beat np an egg and mix through it, and fill the fish ; lay it on a 
triyet in a long dripping-pan, season it with pepper and salt and 
dnst it lightly with flonr, and set it in a rather qnick oyen ; 
when it begins to brown, baste it with batter and hot water 
stirred together. A large shad will require an hour to bake. 
Make a sauce of half a small teacup of tomato or mushroom 
catoup, a glass of wine, the juice of a lemon and half a teacup 
of boiling water ; thicken this with a teaspoonfnl of flour, mixed 
in a yery little cold water ; giye a boil up. When you haye 
dished the fish, if there is any drippings from it in the pan, add 
it to the sauce, pour oyer the fish and senre with sprigs of paaley 
fbr a garnish. 

This fish is best fried. Select those of medium siie, weighing 
about two pounds each. After scaling and emptying them, 
wash them well in cold water; score them across the back; season 
with pepper and salt, and dust them lightly with flour and lay 
them across a large pan, in which you hftye reftdy hot lard or 
drippings; fry them slowly, turning them when brown, and 
serye them with a garnish of parsley. 

Floundera. 

Prepare as aboye; dip them in beaten egg; roll them in 
cracker dust, seasoned with pepper and salt, and fry them 
btown* 



FISR. 11 

* Froft Fiih or Smelti. 

These fiBh require no emptying. Wftsh them oleaui wipe them 
dry, dip them in beaten egg, then in oraoker dnst, and fry them 
in boiling lard or beef drippings Season the oraoker with 
pepper and salt 

♦Stnrgeon. 

If this fish is prepared as it should be, it is very fine eating, 
although fbw people know it Procure five or six pounds from 
the thiok part of the fish, put it on to boil with plenty of water 
and two tablespoons of salt. As it boilsy skim off all the fat; 
it will require two hours or more, and should be simmered slowly 
or it will break. When you can run a straw through it, remoye 
it from the water and drain it. When this has been done, place 
it in a stone pot or tureen, season it very highly with cayenne 
pepper and salt, throw over it a dosen cloves and three blades 
of mace ; mix together vinegar and water in the proportion of a 
bowl of water to every two of vinegar, stir into this throe table- 
spoons of sifted sugar, cover the fish with this, set it away foi 
twenty-four hours, keeping it closely covered, and it is ready for 
use. Cut off as much as you wish to go on the tablci and serve 
in a flat dbh with some of the liquor round it. 

* Boast Sturgeon. 

Parboil the stnrgeon until it begins to be a little tender, re- 
move it from the water. Whilst it is draining and cooling, pre- 
pare the following dressing : Orate a pint of bread crumbs, 
season with pepper, salt, a small onion chopped, a teaspoon of 
sweet marjoram, the same of sweet basil, and a quarter of a 
pound of butter melted and poured over, mix all well together, 
make deep incisions through the fish, fill with the dressing, 
season the outside of t)ie fish with pepper and salt, dust with a 
little flour, baste with butter and hot water, and bake threa 
quarters of an hour in a hot oven. 



a COOKERY FROM E-IFXRIBNCX. 

•CfttPifh. 

Oat off their heads, strip off the skio, wash them Ter; elean a 

wM water, wipe them dry, seastHi them with poppar and nit, aM 

dost them lightlj with flour; put them in ixnling brd n sweat 

beef drippings, and ttj them brown. 

• Brook Imt 

After thej hare been emptied, wash them and wipe them drj, 
£p them in beaten yolk of egg, toll them in eraokor dnst sea- 
soned with peppar and salt; hare ready hot lard or drivings, 
and frj them brown. 

Ltke Iimt 

This fish may be btnled or brtnled. If the latter, prooeed the 
flame as with bnnM shad. To b<nl it, lay it in a fish-kettle with 
boiling water to eorer it, add a tablespoonftil of salt, and a wine- 
^)un of vinegar ; a fish of fbnr or fire ponnds will require twenty 
miantea. Serve with ^g^auoe, or drawn bntter with shopped 
paisley. Hie remains of a boiled boat may be seasoned irith 
oaynmfl pappar and salt, and oovered wiUi Tin^ar, and afbs 
standing a ftw homa, is a niee relish fbr tea, served ooU. 

PicUad **^"'™. Spieoi. 

Soak the fish aU night in eoU water to ttxtiaet the salt. Next 

■oming ky it in a fish-kettle with plenty of oold water, bring it 

to a boil, than rimmsr sntil tender ; drain the water £ram it and 

by it in a deep Yiflaa l or stons pot, whieh ean be eloaely aorered- 

Pwt over dw fir* a qnart of vinc^ai in which yon have pot a tea- 

spoenfU of whole dorea, tha same of aUqaee, the same of wh<ds 

d tmr bladea of maea. Bring the vinegar to a 

trp, add a ta aenp of water, and poor it over the 

^ ts aovar, add mon vin^ar, oarer the veasel 

•way ftr t«stMy-fbat hosrs, when it is read] 



jzsa at 

•TobroflaShad. 

Soale it; split it open on the back, keeping the knife cloee to 
the bone ; wash it in seyeral waters ; wipe it dry, and broil it 
on a gridiron over a bright fire, turning it several times, ik, 
laige shad will take fifteen or twenty minutes to oook. Serre it 
on a hot dish, with plenty of butter, pepper and salt 

* MaekereL 

Fresh maokerel should be split and broiled the same as shad. 
Salt maokerel should be put in eold water and soaked for twenty- 
four hours before it is cooked ; then take it from the water, 
lorape it over with a dull knife, wash in fresh water, wipe it dry, 
broil oyer hot ooak, butter and serve on a hot duh. 

* Potted EerriBf . 

Seale themi wash them in several waters, out oiF the heads 
and fins, and lay them in a stone pot, with each layer seasoned 
with pepper, salt, whole cloves and allspice, until the vessel is 
fUl ; pour over them cold vinegar to cover thenii lay a plate 
over the top and set them in a moderate oven for five or ttz 
hours. 

* Stewed Sels. 

Wash them olean ; out them in pieces two inches long ; put 
them in a stew-pan, with cold water to oover them ; stew them 
about fifteen minutes; then drain off the water, season them 
with pepper and salt, oover them with cream or rich milk, stir a 
tablespoonful of flour into butter the sise of an egg, and add it 
with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley; boil up and serve. 

Tried Xels. 

Prepare them as above ; season with pepper and sail, and dual 
them slightly with fljur, and fry in nioe lard or drippings. 



M OOOKERT FROM BXFEBIEJIfOE. 

Piekir«L 

Pickerel, peroh or any oUier Bmall fish, are all prepared in the 
same manner. Glean and wash them ; season with pepper and 
salt * dost with floor, and fry them in boiling lard or drippings. 

* Boiled HaUbnt 

A pieee of halibut, weighing Sto or siz pounds, wiU require 
about an hour to eook ; put it in a fish-kettle, with sufficient 
eold water to cover it; add a tablespoonAil of salt; simmer very 
slowly, and serre with oyster-sauce. 

* Fried Halibut 

Cut the fish in slices half an inch thick ; dip the jtteces in 
the yolk of egg ; season some cracker dust, in a flat dish, 
with pepper and nit ; roll the fish in this, and fry in hot lard 
or drippings. 

Broiled Halibut 

Out the fish in slices as aboTC, wash and wipe it dry, put it 
on the gridiron over the coals ; when done, i^ce it on a hoi 
dish ; put on it butter, pepper and salt, and serre* 

* Potted Shad. 

After the shad has been cleaned, wash and wipe it dry, and 
out it into six pieces across the back, making of each half of the 
fish three pieces ; cover the bottom of an earthen crook or pan ; 
season with pepper, salt, whole allspice, whole cloYes, and two 
blades of mace to each layer ; then on this put another layer of 
fish, seasoned as before, and so on until you have ail the fish 
seasoned in layers ; cover with vinegar, tie some brown or sugar- 
loaf paper tightly over the top, or it may be covered with a large 
plate ; bake very slowly for four hours. This is a nice relish 
for tea, and b served cold. 

Stewed Fisk 

Chop a bunch of parsley and an onion very fine ; put this in 
a bowl iull of tomato juice, with four cloves, four allspice, a 



FI8B. 25 

bkde of maoe and two ohopped onMsken ; have tiie tsh cleaned 
and weQ waahed, ky it in a stew-pan, ponr over it the prepared 
tomato jnioe, season with pepper and salt, and stew very slowly 
one hour ; thioken with a little brown flour, add a glass of wim 
and serve. 

• Cod Fish (salt). 

Put the fish in oold water and let it remain four or five honrs, 
to extract the salt; change the water and wash the fish very 
clean; lay it in a fish-kettle with plenty of cold water, bring it 
to a boO, then set it back on the range or stove where it wiU 
keep at a boiling temperatnre without cooking ; when perfectly 
tender, drain it, and prepare the sauce as follows : Put in i 
sauce-pan a quarter of a pound of butter, melt it over the fire^ 
and stir in it a small tablespoonful of flour to a smooth paste, ad4 
a veiy little water, stir until it thickens, but do not allow it to 
boil, add to it a tablespoonfyil of chopped parsley, two hard 
boiled eggs chopped flne, and a cofiee-cup ftill of rich milk ; 
give it oneboil up, take the outside skin and the large bones 
firom the fish, put it in a rather deep dbh, pour the sauce over 
it; and serve. 

* Cod-fish Cakes. 

Out the fish into pieces the size of your hand as much as you 
need for the cakes, lay it the skin side uppermost in a pan of 
cold water, cover it closely and set it in the oven over night; in 
the morning pick it to pieces, taking out all the bones and skin, 
chop it very fine in a hard wooden bowl ; to two cups of minced 
fish allow three of mashed potato, prepared as for the table, stir 
the fish and potato together with a fork ; beat in a bowl the 
yolks of two eggs, stir in it two tablespoons of soft butter 
(warmed but not melted) to a smooth paste, add a little black 
pepper, beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff f^oth, and mix it 
with the yolks and butter ; turn in the fish and potato, mix it 
weQ with a fork, flour your hands, and roll tablespoonsful into 
round balls, flatten them to half an inch thick, and fry them 
brown in hot lard. Serve on a shallow dish. 



M COOKER Y FROM EXPERIENCB. 

* Hew HftTen Cod-flih Cakes. 

Pat the fish to soak in oold water oyer night ; in the morning 
piok the bones from the fish, take off all the skini and ohop the 
fish yery fine ; peel, boil and mash as for the table white potatoea; 
to one oup of the chopped fish, add two of the mashed potato ; 
•tir together with a fi>rk, mould into balls, fiatten them to half 
an inch in thickness, and fry them brown in sweet beef drip- 
pings or the &t of salt pork fried. 

* Chowder, Vo. 1. 

Gat three qaarters of a poand of the fat of pickled pork into 
thin slioeS; oat the slices into strips, covcff the bottom of a pot 
with some of the strips, have ready cleaned and washed a cod- 
fish weighing five or six pounds, cut the fbh in pieces, lay on 
the pork a layer of the fish, season with pepper and salt, and 
put oyer it a few slices of onion ; coyer this layer with buttered 
crackers; then proceed as befbre with a layer of pork, fish, 
seasoning and crackers, until you haye used all your fish ; coyer 
the top with the buttered cracker, pour cold water on sufficient 
to coyer the top, keep the yessel you cook it in coyered closely, 
and stew gently fbr an hour. If you find it getting dry add a 
little water occasionally ; this may be improyed by adding a few 
raw oysters to each kyer of fish ; remoye it from the pot with a 
flat skimmer. It may be set in a hot oyen^ closely coyered, to 
cook. 

* Chowder, Ho. 2. 

Out into slices three-quarters of a pound of pickled pork, put 
them into the pot you will use for the chowder, fry them a light 
brown, taking care not to bum them ; when the fat is all ex- 
tracted, and the pork is brown, take out the slices, add a pint of 
water, or the same quantity of oyster juice or clam juice if you 
haye it ; slice some raw potatoes yery thin \ if your fish is a large 
one out it in pieces two or three inches long \ if a small fish, lay 
them in whole (without their heads) ; now place a layer of potatoeSi 
then one of fish, on that a layer of soaked crackers, each one 
with a small piece of butter on it, season with pepper and salt. 



FI8B. av 

and ft few rings of slioed onion ; plaoe ftnotber Uyer of potato, 

fish; oraoken and seaaoning, until yon have all the fiah in, then 

pour oyer all the water and Med pork-fat, oover tightly and 

stew slowly for one hour, or set it in a hot oven for the same 

tame. 

Clam Chowder. 

Ptooeed ezaetly as above, leaving oat the salt, as the elams 
are very salt in themselves, and patting olams in the plaoe of 
the fish ; if yoa have not jaice enoagh to eover them, add water 

*Tarbot a la Cr«Bio. 

Prooare a haddoek weighing aboat six poands.; after it has 
been cleaned and washed in several waters, pat it over the fire 
in a fish-kettle with oold water and a tablespoonfol of salt, sim- 
mer it slowly for half an hoar ; when the fish is done, remove 
it from the water, drain it, then skin it, and teke oat all the 
bones, picking the flakes of the fish apart ; melt in a saaoepan 
a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, stir into this a toblespoonfui 
of flour; when there are no lumps add a pint of cream, stir it 
all the time until it thickens, but do not let it boil ; butter a 
baking dish, season the fish with a little cayenne pepper, salt 
and a very little powdered mace, and put it in the dish ; it 
should be a deep one ; then pour the cream over it, and sprinkle 
a tablespoonftil of grated cheese over the top, bake it half an 
hour in a quick oven ; it should be a nice brown. 

* Smoked Salmon. 

Pour boiling water over the fish, and let it stend until cold) 
then wash the fish and wipe it dry, put it on a gridiron over a 
bright fire, turn it frequently to prevent it being dry ; when you 
are sure it is cooked through, serve it on a hot dbh with plenty 
of butter over it. Or put the fish in oold water over night, 
wipe it dry, and proceed as above. 

Smoked Herring. 

Scald them, pull off the skin, and broil a few minutes over hoi 
eoab, taming them once. 



28 COOKER T FROM EXPERIENCE. 

Fricasseed StnrgeoiL 

Prooure a slice of sturgeon nearly an inch in thickness, pat il 
in a stew-pan with boiling water sufficient to coyer it, and sim- 
mer until tender ; then drain it and cut it in small pieces ; melt 
in a sauce-pan butter the size of an egg, stir in it a teaspoonfol 
of flour; add half a pint of cream, a heaping teaspoon of chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt ; boil up and pour over the fish. 

Fried Clams. 

Open and cut fine fifty sand clams, drain off the liquor ] beat 
two eggs very light, and add them to the clams with a little 
chopped parsley, two spoonsftil of milk, and pepper and salt to 
your taste ; stir all well together, and dust in flour to make a 
thin batter; drop a tablespoonful at a time in boiling lard. 

* Anchovy Toast. 

Out slices of bread half an inch thick, toast them evenly 
brown, butter plentifully, and lay the anchovies on the slioci 
lay another slice over them, put them in the oven fbr five 
minutesi and serve. 



MEATS 



Semarks on Boaiting, Boiling, Ao. 

In roasting or baking^ after the meats are properly prepared, 
everything depends upon having a clear fire and a clean range 
or stove. See that your ovens are free from ashes on top and 
nnder them, and that the fire is well raked and made ap with 
fresh coal. 

Meat and poultry, when roasting, should he basted with the 
drippings every fifteen or twenty minutes. If this is neglected, 
the outside will be hard and stringy, and difficult to carve 
without tearing the meat. All kinds of meat and poultry are 
better fbr being kept for several days before cooking; a leg of 
mutton may be hung in a cold dry place for a week in winter; 
beef is preferred by most persons a little rare — ^a leg of mutton 
the same ; but the loin of mutton, pork, veal, poultry and birds, 
all require to be thoroughly cooked. Venison should be a little 
rare; all kinds of fish should be thoroughly cooked, as nothing 
is more unpalatable than underdone fish. 

Meat for soup should always be put on the fire in cold water, 
brought gradually to the boil, then skimmed and cooked slowly 
•8 long as required, and the vessel kept covered closely. 
Joints or poultry for the table should be put in boiling water, 
and replenished irith the same. Fish should be put over the 
fire in cold water, unless otherwise directed in the recipe for 
eooking it. 



MEATS. 81 

oven^ and when ilie fat has dripped out to coyer well the bottom 
of the pan, poor a pudding round it, made as follows : Beat the 
yolks and whites separately of four eggs, then beat the two 
together, stir in five heaping tablespoons of flour and a little salt, 
add gradually to this u. p^^. '* milk, bake slowly for one hour ; 
take up the meat, place it in the centre of a fiat dish, cut the 
pudding in four pieces of equal sise, that is across both ways, lay 
t round the meat to look as it did in the pan, make a grayy as 
for roast beef, and pour over the meat and serre. 

*Beef a-ia-Kode. 

Select a lean piece of the rump of the beef, weighing ten or 
twelve pounds, haye the butcher trim it into a nice round shape^ 
so that it will lie fiat on the pan, cut a pound of fiit pickled pork 
into strips half an inch square, draw them through the depth 
of the beef with a larding needle, or if you are not expert at 
this, you may cut incisions through the meat with a sharp and 
narrow-bladed knife, push the pork down into these until the 
pieces are only half an inch aboye the top of the beef Mix 
together in a wooden bowl a teaspoonful of sweet marjoram, one 
of sweet basil, and one of thyme, all dried and rubbed fine ; stir 
them all together, and add a teaspoonful of powdered cloyes, one 
of black pepper, and one of salt, and half a teaspoonful of 
powdered mace. Mix all together, and rub the meat well with 
it, top, sides and bottom, chop a large onion, and a bunch of 
parsley, scatter them oyer the top of the meat, coyer the bottom 
of a large stew-pan with thin slices of fat pork or bacon, lay the 
beef on them with the larded side uppermost. Mix together 
and pour oyer the meat four wine-glasses of good cooking wine, 
the same of tomato catsup, and half a pint of cold water ; cover 
the vessel tightly, set it in a quick oven, and cook it four hours. 
When done, put the meat on a hot dish, thicken the gravy with 
a little browned flour, and pour over and serve. 



n OOOKSET FROM RXFEMISNaK 

•■ii!0iBcrSe6£ 

Szor dghi pooads ol thii ««ft mfcoAgood rmm^mAmw 
li Toylittia waste in li. Eeniofe tiie bone, or ksTe jov 
bvlelMr do il^ ikewer tlie meafc into tiie iluipe cf aiOet, MMon 
with bkek pepper and edt, dnei wilh ionr, and proeeed m w]& 
iib% baeiing oAen, aliee it liaiiBontallj; er jon my seMon m 
far JbJjHBode beef; akever it vonnd and eook tiie aaae «mj. 

••tewed Bed: 

AiUA aliee from Ibe mn^ of beef veigbiog finor or ire 
poonds, brovn it in a atew-pan, in aiee drif^inga or bvtter,ponr 
over ii boiling water to eorer ift^ add n eanoi enft amaO, n eo^le 
tf ooiona ebopped, a bnneb of paialey and Ibjme, and pepper 
and aalt; atew genUj fat tbree or foor boon. Wben perfeetlj 
tender, aerre on a boi diab, tbidcen tbe gnrjwilbntableBpooa- 
fU of browned floor, add two teaapoonaliil of browning, and a 
wine-f^aaa of tonuto or nraabroom ealnip, bofl iq^ m^ y^mt 
orff tiie meat and aerre. 

* BeeiMenk Broiled. 

ffirbin or portCT-booae steak ia tbe beat; after tbia tbe ramp. 
HarTO yoor steak nearly or quite an ineb in tbiekncm; place it 
between tbe bars of yoor gridiron, bnTing preyionsly put a diab 
tbe aiie fan ii into tbe eooleat oren, leaving the door open ; pot 
tbe steak over a elear fire of eoals ; torn it ecMutantly ; tbie 
keepe in tbe jniee and prevents tbe bardening of tbe steak - 
broil eaeb side aboot seven minutes or until a niee brown ; alip 
it off on tbe disb; spread good sweet butter on it ; iben pepper 
and sab ; turn it over and serve tbe otber side witb tbe same * 
wipe tbe edge of tbe dish witb the comer of a clean kitchen 
towd, which has been wet, and send to table immediately. A 
steak is spnled by keeping it standing; therefore it shouM be 
done the last thing. 



MEATS. U 

» 

* Stew of Beef 

Take two and a half pounds of romp ot round of steak ; out 
it into pieoes an inoh square ; put in a frying-pan some nice 
beef-drippings oz a tablespoonfol of butter and lard mixed) 
make it hot ; put the beef in this with a little dust of flour * 
fook until beginning to be a nioe brown ; then oover with ooli 
water ; add pepper and salt. Stew this two hours, and when 
done very tender, add a wine-glass of tomato oatsup, a little 
flour to thicken the gravy, and serve. This must be kept 
covered with water all the time it is oooking, by adding a litUe 
at a time as it boils away, and is a nioe breakfast or supper 
relish or as an additional dish at dinner. 

* Beef Tongue BonillL 

Procure a beef's tongue which has been pickled but not 
smoked ; wash it very clean and put it in a vessel with cold 
water, let it come to a hard boil, then cook it more slowly until 
quite tender, which will be in about two hours, or a little more, 
if it is a large tongue. When done, take it out and drain it \ 
have a smaller vessel, in which melt some beef-drippings ; add a 
little water, lay the tongue in and simmer, turning often, until 
very soft ; take out the tongue, lay it on a hot dish, and make a 
gravy as follows : chop rather small two pickled cuctmibers and 
add them to the contents of the stew-pan, mix two teaspoonsful 
of browned flour in a little cold water to a smooth paste, stir it 
in ; then add a wine-glass of tomato catsup, half an one of Wor 
oetftershire sauce and a glass of good cooking wine ; boil up ; 
pour over the tongue and serve. Skin the tongue before 
potting it in the drippings. 



* Brisket of Beef 

Procure six or seven pounds (or less) of brisket, put it in a 
0tew-pan and just cover it with cold water ; when it simmers, 
sldm it and add a bunch of parsley and one of thyme, a large 
OAioa fllieed, a head of celery cut in small pieces, a doien whole 
^nMMi of allspice and the same of black pepper, a teispoonfhl 



Si COOKEBT FROM EXPERIENCE. 



of B9lty three carrote peeled and oat in tiuok alioes, twc torn^ei 
and foor tomatoes peeled and cot in piecea, or half a eaa of 
tomatoes; simmer all yeiy slowly for three hours. When the 
meat is fender, lay it on a dish, take ont the stems of the 
parsley and thyme, thieken with browned flonr and pour orer like 
meaty and serve 

•BonOUofBeei: 

Phxmre a tibiek pieee of the round of beef, weighing nine or 
ten pounds ; eat half a poand of fiit piekled p<vk into thin slieei^ 
throw them into a stew-pan and torn them aboat antil the fiit is 
beginning to firy out of them ; then lay the beef <« them and 
brown it on both sides. When this is done, poar orer all oold 
water to eover the meat ; add eight or ten whole eloves ; serape, 
wash and eat in strips foor earrots and add them with one large 
onion sliced and six tomatoes peeled and eat ap ; if winter, 
poor over a can of tomatoes. Cook slowfy fi>ar or fiye hoars ; 
keep the Teasel oo?ered closely. When done, remote the mea;^ 
and thicken the gravy with browned flonr, adding two te»- 
spponsfol of burnt sagv; boil it up and pour over the beet 

* Bound of Beef Sntted. 

Pot the beef into oold water ; bring it to a b<nl ; then set on 
one side, where it will simmer until done. A pieee weighing ten 
pounds will require three or four hours. If you do not serve it 
until eold, let it remain in the water it was boiled in until it is 
perfectly eold ; then drain it dry and set aside. If served ho^ 
use tomato oatsup as a sauce. 

• BeeTs Ltver Piekled. 

Hake a piekle to bear an egg, of only salt and water ; put the 
liver in it, with a weight on it to keep it down ; turn it onee ift 
the pickle. In ten days it will be ready to take out. Hang ift 
^ in a cool, dry pb^e. In a few days you may use it Out 
very thin; melt a piece of butter in a pan; put the liver in and 
tbout until cooked; dust in a litde flour; add milk or 



MEATS. 36 

eream ; give a bod up and serve. Cut the liver as thin as yon 
eut dried beef for frizzling 

* Bagout of Cold Bee£ 

Out into thin slices, cold rare beef, season it with pepper and 
salt, and a little grated nutmeg; put the bones, cracked into 
rather small pieces, and all the skins and trimmings of the meaty 
into a stew-pan, and cover them with cold water and boil them 
an hour or two before you are ready to make the ragout ; strain 
them in a cullender, return the broth to the stew-pan, add half 
a large onion chopped finely, a heaping tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, half a teacup of tomato catsup, or a teacup^l of canned 
tomato, and a blade of mace ; simmer for ten minutes, then put 
in the meat, let all get boiling hot, by simmering for about ten 
minutes more ; mix a tablespoonful of flour, with butter the size 
of an egg, and stir it in, give a boil up, add a tablespoonfol of 
browning, and serve. A glass of wine and a tablespoonfid of 
currant jelly may be added for those who like it. 

* Another. 

Slice rare cold beef thinly, melt in a frying-pan butter the 
size of an e^, lay the meat in it, and brown slightly ; add to il 
a blade of mace, cayenne pepper and salt, a wine-glass of mush- 
room catsup, and a tablespoonfrd of browned flour; stir all 
together over the fire, and add half a pint of broth made as 
above from the bones and trimmings of the beef, simmer five 
minutes, add a glass of Port wine and a tablespoonful of brown- 
ing, give a boil up, and serve. 

* Beef Hash. 

Chop cold beef very fine, season it with pepper, salt and a 
little grated nutmeg, add an onion chopped very fine, and a 
heaping tablespoonful of chopped parsley; butter a baking-dish, 
put the meat in it and press it down closely, pour over it cold 
gravy or broth made as above with the bones and trimmings 
(about a teacup full), cover the top with fine bread-crumbs, 



86 COOKMLY FROM BXPERIENCB. 

ieasoned and ooYored with little pieoeB of batter, aad bake • 
little over half an hour. Loosen it round the sides with a knifb, 
and turn it upside down on a dish ; it should be the shape of 
the pan and nicely browned. 

* Beefs Heart. 

Lay the heart in oold water with a handftd of salt for one 
hour, then wash it in fresh cold water, and wipe it dry ; prepare 
a filling with a coffee-cup of finely grated bread-crumbs, season 
with pepper and salt, half a teaspoonful of sweet basil, the same 
of sweet marjoram, and the same of sage, all dried and powdered ; 
add to this a small onion chopped very fine, and a teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley ; melt a piece of butter the siie of a small 
egg, and pour over the crumbs, mixing all thoroughly togethei 
with a knife, beat up an egg and stir in ; cut with a sharp knife 
a deep incision through the middle of the heart, then another 
across the first, thus opening the whole centre of the hearty 
put the filling in it, pressing it down well through it, skewer it 
across to prevent the filling from falling out, season it outside 
with pepper and salt, dust it with flour, and set it in a hot oven 
in a small dripping-pan, baste it frequently with butter and 
water, and bake an hour, or longer if large ; when the heart is 
done take it from the pan, and add to the drippings a glass of 
wine, one of tomato catsup, a little flour, and if too thick a very 
little boiling water, give a boil up, pour over the heart, and 
serve. Cut it in slices across the heart. 

* Spiced Beef. 

Five or six pounds of the brisket of beef ; take out the bones, 
wash the meat clean, wipe it dry, and sprinkle over it pepper 
and salt, a little powdered cloves and celery seed, roll it up very 
tight, tie it at both ends and in the middle, or skewer it very 
closely, and stew it slowly with water to cover it, four houES, 
keeping it closely covered; when done there should be very 
IkUe gravy left ; remove the meat, take off the strings cr skeweis ; 



MEAT& 37 

tbioken the gravy with % little browned flour, a wine*gla88 of 
tomato oatsup, give a boil up^ pour it over the meat, a&d serve 

* Spieed Beet Vo. 2. 

Take eight pounds of thin flank of beef or brisket. If ike 
latteri take out all the bone, flatten it with a chopper, and 
sprinkle over it a teaspoonful of sweet marjoram, one of powdered 
eloves and allspice mixed, half an one of powdered mace, a 
bunch of parsley minced fine, and a large onion chopped ver> 
ine, half a teaspoonful of black pepper, a teaspoonful of salt, 
and a little cayenne ) roll the meat up tightly, tie it in a cloth 
at both ends and in the middle, put it in a pot of boiling water, 
and oook it slowly for four hours, or until perfectly tender. 
Take it out, put it between two dishes with a heavy weight on 
the top, and let it stand until next day, slice it thin, and garnish 
with sprigs of parsley. Take the cloth from the meat befbre 
you put it in press. 

Beef Hash Baked. 

One pound of cold beef chopped very fine ; season with pepper 
and salt, a small onion chopped fine, a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, a piece of butter the sise of a walnut, and a little water. 
Stew all together fbr five minutes ; stir in seven rolled crackers; 
pour all in a buttered dish and bake twenty minutes in a hot 
oven. 

« Stuffed Beefsteak. 

Proeure a steak cut from the rump or round of beef, weighing 
about two and a half pounds. Prepare a filling with a pint of 
grated bread crumbs, an onion chopped fine, a tablespoonfU of 
ehopped parsley, a teaspoonful of sweet marjoram, half an one 
of sweet basil, and pepper and salt to taste ; melt a piece of butter 
the sice of an egg, pour over, and mix all well together ; spread 
this evenly over the steak, leaving an inch all around the edge ; 
roll up as tightly as you can, secure firmly with skewers through 
the middle and at both ends ; lay the steak in a stew-pan, cover 
It with boiUng water, uid stew it gently for an hour. Take ii 



88 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENQE. 

out carefully; put a few pieces of butter oyer it; duat with 
pepper, salt and flour; lay it in another stew-pan; pour the 
j^roth it was cooked in around it, and bake until brown, basting 
it several times. When done, thicken the gravy with browned 
lour, give it a boil up, pour over the roll, and serve. 

* Beef Birds. 

Cut slices half an inch thick from the rump or round of beef; 
divide them into pieces about four inches square ; spread them 
with sausage meat, or force-meat, if you prefer it; roll up 
tightly, tie or skewer them, brown them in butter, cover with 
broth and stew until tender and nearly dry ; thicken the gravy 
with a spoonful of browned flour ; add a wine-glass of tomato or 
mushroom catsup, boil up, pour over and serve. 

* Smoked Tongue Boiled. 

Lay the tongue in cold water all night ; then put it in a vessel 
which will hold two gallons, cover it with cold water, bring it 
to a boil, and then set it where it will continue to boil gently for 
three hours ; replenish the water from a kettle as fast as it boils 
away; try the tongue with a fork ; if not perfectly soft, boil it 
longer. When thoroughly cooked, take it from the water, 
remove the skin, trim the smoked parts all off the root ; have 
ready mashed potato ; set the tongue upon the dish you serve it 
on, in the same position that it was in its owMfi^% mouth ; lay 
the potato all round it, press it against it, and smooth the sides 
up to the tongue. Do this as quickly as possible, so that all 
may be hot together, and serve. 

* Dried Beef Frizzled. 

Shave the beef as thin as paper ; melt in a frying-pan a piece 
ef butter the size of a large egg ; when hot, stir in the beef, 
and toss it about for a minute ; have ready a teacup of cream or 
rich milk, with the yolk of an egg beaten in it and a saltspoonftil 
of mixed mustard ; dust the beef with flour, stir it about, then 
pour in the cream, shake it through the meat boil up and serve 



MEATS. 39 

* Dried Beef Frizzled in Cream, Ho. 2. 

Chip the beef as thin as paper with a very sharp knife. Helt 
in a frying-pan batter the size of an egg, stir the beef about in 
it for two or three minutes, dust in a little flour, add half a tea- 
cup of rioh eream, give a boil up, and serve in a eovered dish. 

* Frizzled Beef, Ho. 3. 

Chip the beef as above, melt in a firying-pan butter the size 
of an egg, stir in the beef, toss it about over a hot fire, add two 
tableepoonsful of hot water, boil up and serve. Cook the beef 
rather longer in this recipe than in the former one, with oream. 

*Bump Steak Stewed. 

Put an ounce of butter into a stew-pan ; when melted, lay in 
die steak, cook slowly five minutes \ then turn over and oook 
five minutes more; boil a pint of button onions for half an hour ; 
put the water they were boiled in over the steak ; if there is not 
enough to cover it, add more ; season with pepper and salt, and 
simmer gently an hour and a half. In another sauce-pan put 
two ounces of butter ; when it is melted, stir in as much browned 
flour as will make a stiff paste ; add to this a tablespoonftil of 
Claret or Port wine, the same of mushroom catsup ; add a little 
salt and pepper and the water the beef was stewed in ; lay the 
beef in this ; give a good boil for two or three minutes, and 
serve it with the onions round the steak and the gravy poured 
over. The onions must be kept hot by setting the vessel they 
were cooked in into another one of boiling water, closely 
covered. 

* Pressed Bee£ 

Procure about six or eight pounds of the brisket of beef; 
put it in pickle for two weeks, or get your butcher to put it in 
a sweet pickle for you ; wash it clean, and put it in a vessel with 
eold water ; bring it to a boil ; then set it where it will simmer 
until tender. When you can run a straw through it, remove it 
from the fire, drain it, take out all the bones, roll it up tightly, 



40 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

lie or skewer it to keep it in its plaoe, put it on a plate or iiakf 
pat another one on top of it and plaee a heavy weight on it ; 
let it stand until next day; out in thin slioes for supper or 
luneheon. 

*Beef*s Sidneys Stewed. 

Out them in pieees half an inoh square ; remoTe all the hk 
and veins ; wash them in two waters ; put them in a stew-pan, 
with cold water to coyer them ; bring to a boil \ then strain the 
water off and add boiling water to cover them; season with 
pepper and salt, and stew them until very tender ; then add a 
bunch of parsley chopped fine, a tablespoonful of browned fiour 
rubbed to a paste with cold water, and a piece of butter the siie 
of an egg, boil up for a few minutes a^d serve. If you wish 
them for an early breakfast, they must be cooked the day beforoi 
and set away and finished in the morning, as they require two 
or three hours' stewing to make them tender. 

* Potted Beef 

Boil a shin of beef in sufficient water to cover it, until the 
neat drops from the bones, which will take five or six hours, 
skim out the meat, pick out all the bones and gristle, chop in a 
wooden bowl until it is a paste, moistening it as you chop it with 
some of the liquor it was boiled in ; be careful to get the marrow 
out of the bones, and put with the meat ; when it is chopped 
to a paste, season very highly with pepper, salt, a small teaspoon- 
ftil of grated nutmeg, sweet marjoram, sweet basil, and a little 
powdered cloves ; chop all together, then pack it closely into 
moulds by pressing down with a spoon ; set in a cool place * 
when you wish to use it turn it out of the mould, and set on a 
dish to be sliced down like tongue. A very nice dish for lunch 
tea or breakfast. You will need a pint or more of the liquor to 
moisten the meat as you chop it, but it must be added ver^ 
gradually, so that you do not get it too thin ; ths remainder of 
the broth may be used as stc sk for soup. 



MEATS, 41 

Staffed Bee! 

Ten or tweke pounds of the round of oeef ; remove the bone 
from the oentre, prepare a dressing or filling as follows : Om 
pint of bread orumbs, pepper and salt to taste, a teaspoonful of 
sweet marjoram, half an one of sweet basil, an onion ohopped 
▼ery fine, a little grated nutmeg (a saltspoonfnl), and a bunob 
of parsley ohopped fine ; melt three oonoes of batter, pour oyei 
the orambs after thej are seasoned, stir it well together, break 
an ^g in this and stir again ; when thoroughly incorporated, 
fill up the hole you took the bone from, make incisions down 
through the beef around the centre, fill them with the re- 
mainder of the filling, out slices of fat pork, cover the top of 
the meat with them, place in a stew-pan, and oover closely ; 
poor around it a pint of boiling water, and cook slowly in a 
moderate oven for nearly fbur hours ; baste it frequently; adding 
more water as it cooks away ; when the meat is doae thicken 
the gravy, and send to table in a sauce tureen or gravy-boat 

* Fanny S.'s Savory Beef. 

Three and a half pounds of lean uncooked beef, pound it and 
ehop it as fine as possible, take out all the strings, and add to it 
six square soda crackers rolled as fine as the cracker dust, butter 
the size of an egg, warmed a little, but not melted, four table- 
spoonsful of sweet cream, three eggs broken over the meat, a 
whole nutmeg grated, four teaspoons of sak, two and a half of 
black pepper, and a tablespoonful of sweet marjoram ; knead it 
well with your hands, make it in two rolls, about the size of a 
beers tongue, press it very closely into the rolls, put them into 
a pan and bake them an hour and a half; baste them with butter 
and water. When one side is brown, turn them over. When 
oold, eat in thin slices for tea-table or luncheon. 

* A very good Pie of Cold Beef 

SEee odd roast beef; lay it in a sauce- pan, with the remains 
ef eold gravy; season it with pepper and salt; add a amaii 



42 CO OKER T FB OM EXPERIENCE. 

onion chopped, a bunch of parsley chopped, and a half a salt- 
Bpoonful of grated nutmeg. Give all a boil up. If not enough 
gra^y, add a piece of butter rubbed to a paste with two tea- 
spoons of brown flour, and a cup of boiling water. G-ive all one 
boil up, and set aside whilst you make a good plain pie-omst'i 
line a deep dish with the crust, pour in the meat and gravy, 
trim the edge of the crust, close to the dish, place a cover on it 
of* crust rolled a little thicker than for the lining, in which you 
have made several incisions, and bake in a quick oven three- 
quarters of an hour. Wet the edge of the under crust with 
cold water before you put on the cover. 

* Corned Beel 

All corned beef requires to be boiled slowly. Put it on in 
cold water ; allow about twenty-five minutes for every pound of 
beef, and serve with boiled or fried parsnips, stewed cabbage or 
boiled turnips either sliced or mashed, 

* Pickle for Coming BoeC 

Three gallons of water, six and three-quarter pounds of fine 
salt, three ounces of saltpetre, one ounce of pearlash, two and a 
half pounds of white sugar, and a pint of molasses. This is 
Buflicient for fifty pounds of meat. When all dissolved, lay in 
tibe beef. It will be ready for use in twelve or fourteen days, 
and can remain in the pickle five or six weeks without injury. 



* Beef Steak 

Take about three pounds and a half of rump -steak, beat h 
with a chopper, and cut it in pieces half the siie of your hand| 
peel, wash and cut in slices half an inch thick about eight white 
potatoes, butter a large pudding mould, and line it with crust 
made as for apple dumplings ; put in a layer of the meat, season 
with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg, and scatter over it 
« little very finely chopped onion ; then put on this a layer of 
the sliced potato, on this another layer of meat seasoned as 
before, then another of potato, and so on until all are in ; mix 
in a bowl two wine-glasses of mushroom catsup, and the 8am# 



MEATS. 43 

*f yeal or beef broth, pour over^ roll out a cover, and put it on 
dosely, wetting the edge of tbe under orust and pressing the top 
on it to make it stick, and tie it up closely in a thick pudding 
elodi ; have ready a large pot of boiling water, put it in, and 
boil it for two hours and a half; when done take off the doth, 
tarn it upside down on a dish, and remoye the mould. 

* Beef i Kidneys, Ho. 2. 

Out them into small pieces, and wash them in two or three 
waters ; put in a stew-pan a piece of butter the sise of an egg, 
and a tablespoonful of flour ; put in the kidneys, and stir about 
until brown, then add pepper and salt, and a pint of boiling 
water (for two kidneys), cover closely and simmer slowly for five 
hours; then add a little chopped parsley, a tablespoonful of 
browning, boil up and serve. 

* Heat Balls of Beef, Kutton or VeaL 

Two cups of cold roast meat chopped very fine, leaving out all 
the fat, brown skin and gristle, three-quarters of a cup of very 
finely-grated bread crumbs, a quarter of a pound of fat pickled 
pork chopped very fine, a teacup of cold boiled potato also 
chopped fine, one tablespoonful of butter warmed but not melted| 
two of tomato catsup, a teaspoonlM of sweet marjoram, half an 
one of sweet basil, a piece of onion the size of a nutmeg, chopped 
finely, pepper and salt, and one egg. Stir the meat, potatOy 
pork, crumbs, and seasoning all together, mix the butter with 
the yolk of the egg, then beat the white of the egg light, add it 
to the butter and yolk, and mix all together ; make the meat 
into balls, fiatten them half an inch in thiekness, and brown in 
hot sweet beef drippings, or nice lard, or half butter and half 
lard. 

* Stewed Tripe. 

Boil the tripe the day before it is wanted untQ a straw will 
run through it ; next day cut it in pieces half the sise of an 
oyster, and put it in a stew-pan with a pint of milk; rub a 
quarter of a pound of butter to a paste with a heapiag table- 



14 COOKERY FROM E2CPERIENCE. 

BpoonAil of flour ; when the milk boib, stir in the batter and 
lour, add iait and pepper to yoar taste, a blade of maoe broken 
rp, and half a teaspoonful of whole allBpioe ; boil up, and serre 

♦MUTTOH. 

For soup, the shoulder, neok or leg. 
For roasting, the hind-quarter or leg, the loin or breast. 
For boiling, the leg. 

For broiling, chops out from the loin, or the breast, and steaks 
lat from the leg. 
For stewing, chops from the fore-quarter, the neok or leg. 

* Leg of Mutton Boiled. 

W^ash the leg clean, put it in a Tcssel holding sufficient boiling 
water to cover it, add a tablespoonful of salt ; it will require a 
quarter of an hour for every pound of meat; serve with caper- 
sauce, drawn butter with chopped parsley, or with egg-sauee. A 
leg of mutton is much finer if hung for several days, or a week, 
if the weather permits, before it is cooked. 

* Leg of Mutton Stewed. 

Wash the leg clean, cover the bottom of a long and narrow 
stew-pan with slices of salt pork, bacon or fat ham (uncooked), 
lay the leg on these, cover it completely over with slices of the 
same, which may be skewered to keep them in their place, have 
some trimmings of uncooked veal, three carrots, scraped and 
out in slices half an inch thick, three onions sliced, a bunch of 
parsley and the same of thyme (not chopped), lay these around 
the leg, season all with pepper and a very little salt, as the 
bacon will give it a salt taste, pour cold water sufficient to oomo 
to the top of the leg but not over it, cover very closely and sol 
it in the oven, which should be moderately hot, remove the eover 
occasionally and baste the leg, cook slowly four hours \ take out 
the leg, lay it on a hot dish, thicken the gi-avy with browned 
tour, give it a boil up, add half a teacup of tomato catsup, give 
it another boil, pour over the leg and serve. 



if ll 

Jiilll 



sSs,i 






e . 11? > 
ill- S 



5:81 s 

lis- :J 









* Leg of Xuttoii Roasted. 

Wasli and wipe the leg; lay it in a dripping-pan, season witk 
pepper and salt and dust with jSonr, pat a teacupful of water 
in the pan, and roast two hoars in a hot oven ; take ont the leg| 
thicken the gravy with browned flour, add boiling water, poll 
«p, put a few spoonsM over the meat and serve the renudnder 
in a sauce-boat. Currant jelly should always accompany roast 
mutton. Baste the leg frequently whilst roasting. 

* Leg of Xutton Stuiffed. 

Wash and wipe the mutton, grate a pint of bread crumbs, 
season with salt and pepper, a teaspoonful of sweet marjoram, 
two teaspoonsM of sage, and half an one of sweet basil (all dried 
and rubbed fine), chop a mediumnsized onion, and put it over 
the fire in a small sauce-pan with butter the size of a large egg, 
stew for five minutes, pour over the bread crumbs and stir in 
thoroughly ; with a sharp knife make a deep incision on the 
long side of the leg parallel with the bone, push the dressing in 
making it go all through the length of the leg, skewer it at the 
opening where you stuffed it, season the leg with pepper and 
salt, dust it with flour, and roast two hours in a hot oven, keep- 
ing a little water in the pan to baste it with, which should be 
done every fifteen or twenty minutes, thicken the gravy with 
browned flour, put a few spoonsful over the meat when you 
place it on the dish, and serve the remainder in a gravy-boat 
To be eaten with eurrant jully. 

* Xutton YenisoB. 

Uut thin slices from a leg which has been hung for several 
days, season with eayenne pepper and salt, melt a quarter of 
a pound of butter in a frying-pan, lay in the slices, add two 
blades of mace, turn them once, dust in a very little flour, and 
stir in half a teacup of currant jellv ; stir this about until the 
jelly is entirely melted, add a glass of wine, boil up and serve- 
A few minutes is sufficient to cook it. 



#6 COOKERY FROM EJTERIENOB. 

* Hutton-Chopf Stewed. 

Put the chops in a Btew-pan, widi pepper and salt, and a 
small onion ; cover them with cold water^ and set them tver a 
slow fire^ and stew nntil tender ; when half done, add a gfll dt 
tomato catsup. They will require about an hour ; thicken the 
graT^ with browned flour, and pour over the meat. 

* Irish Stew. 

Four pounds of meat from the neck or loin of mutton ; peel, 
wash and cut in half ten or twelye white potatoes, six onions 
peeled and sliced ; put a layer of meat cut in chops at the bottom 
of your stew-pan, then a layer of onions, then one of potatoes ; 
season with pepper and salt and a little chopped parsley ; then 
another layer of meat, onions and potatoes, seasoned as before, 
until all are in ; pour over all a pint of good broth, with a giU 
of mushroom or tomato catsup ; cover closely and simmer fbr 
one hour, slowly. 

* Hutton Curry. 

Lay a breast of mutton in a stew-pan, put on it two quarts of 
water, and simmer it slowly for an hour and a half; cut in slices 
a large onion and brown it nicely in a small &ying-pan with a 
little butter ; add to it a heaping tablespoonful of curry powder 
and a little salt ; take the meat from the broth, and stir in the 
curry; put the meat back into it, and simmer slowly for an 
hour longer ; then lay it on a hot dish and pour the gravy over 
it; if it is not thick enough, add a little browned flour, give a 
boil up and pour over the meat. 

* leg of Mutton Boned. 

With a sharp knife make an incision dose to the bone, at the 
knuckle ; keep the knife as near the bone as possible until you 
have loosened all around the knuckle; then divide the joint 
and draw the bone out ; next cut around the blade-bone at the 
other end of the leg, loosen it with both knife and fingers, and 
proceed slowly all along the leg-bone until you can draw it out; 
then make a force-meat as follows : Chop very fine a pound of 



HEATB. 4n 

Jam md jnioy veal, the same of piokled pork, grate a eupfiil 
of bread-crumbs mix all together, season with pepper and salt, 
two teaspoonsfol of sage rubbed fine, two of summer savory 
ditto, and one of sweet basil ; mix all well together ; beat the 
yolks of three eggs, and add them, with a gill of mushroom or 
tomato catsup ; fill the leg where you extracted the bone, pack 
it in as tightly as possible, season the leg with pepper and salt, 
dust it with flour, put it in a dripping-pan, with a teacup of 
boiling water around it ; roast it in a moderate oven two and a 
half hours, basting often ; thicken the grayy with browned 
flour, put a few spoonsful on the meat, the remainder in a gravy- 
boai. 

* Hutton Harieot 

Take about four pounds of the neck, breast or loin of mutton ; 
out it in chops about three inches square \ put into a stew-pan 
three ounces of butter or good beef drippings. When hot, add 
a tablespoonftd of browned flour, and the same of brown sugar ; 
stir them all together ; lay the meat evenly over the bottom of 
the pan and brown nicely on both sides ; add pepper and salt to 
taste, and a little hot water, but not quite covering the meat; 
add three carrots, washed and scraped, and cut in pieces, about 
an inch long, two turnips ditto, and a bunch of parsley and 
thyme tied together; simmer slowly until the mutton is tender, 
which will be in about an hour ; then add three potatoes, peeled, 
washed and cut in pieces. When the potatoes are done, if the 
gravy is not thick enough, add more browned flour, and serve all 
on a dish together, laying the pieces of meat around the dish 
with the vegetables in the centre. You may add an onion to 
this when you put in the carrots if you choose. 

Kutton Haricot, Ho. 2. 

Four or five pounds of chops from the neck of mutton ; season 
them with cayenne and black pepper, and salt; put them in a 
stew-pan, dredge them well with flour, and add to them three 
carrots cut in slices a chopped onion, a tablespoonful of brown- 



48 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

iBgy and a little water; stew slowly three or four honrsi theft add 
half a pint of stewed tomatoes, stew %:9% wiinntes oiore and scrre 

* Xutton Chops. 

These may be eat firom the neck or loin. Trim off the t^ 
lay them on a board, and beat them once with the flat part of a 
eleayer or chopper; then place them on a gridiron over a qniek 
fire ; torn them often whilst broiling. When done, lay them on 
a hot dish, butter, pepper and salt each one separately, and 
serre very hot 

* A Vice Way to Cook Xntton for BreaUSut or Sapper. 

Gat thin slices from a leg of matton which has been han^ng 
fer two or three days (if in winter), for two ponnds pat a piece 
of batter the sixe of a large egg into a frying-pan over the fire. 
When hot, lay in the slices, season with cayenne and black 
pepper, and salt, add two blades of mace, tarn the matton aboat 
antil cooked, which will be in a few minntes; add a teaspoon- 
fol of browned floar, half a teacapfal of tomato catsap, and a 
tablespoonM of hot water ; give all a boil ap and serve. 

* Xatton Stew. 

Peel a quarter of a peck of tomatoes ; cat oat the green hearts, 
oat do not sqneexe oat the jaice ; wash a quart of <kns and slice 
them half an inch in thickness, four large cucumbers washed 
and cut in pieces, two onions peeled and out in four, and four 
pounds of the neck of mutton, with the joints cracked ; put aU 
together in a stew-pan, without any water, the juice of the 
tomatoes being sufficient without any other moisture. Cook 
slowly three and a half or four hours. This is a fine stew. 

* Loin of Hutton. 

Season with pepper and salt, dust with ftour, and place in a 
irippingopan, with a teacup of hot water * roast it two hoan in 



MEATS. 48 

i hoi oven, tMoken the gravy with browned floor, and Borre it 
teparately; baste frequently whilst it is cooking; serve with 
currant jelly. 

» Mutton Birdi. 

Out slices out of the leg half an inch thick ; prepare a force- 
meat highly seasoned, spread it over each slice, fasten wiik 
skewers, brow^ nicely in hot drippings, cover with water, and 
stew slowly until tender all through ; they will take nearly two 
hours ; lay them on a hot dish, and stir in the gravy brown flour 
to thicken it; add two tablespoonsfid of tomato catsup, give all 
\ boil up, and pour over the meat 

* Sheep's Kidneys. 

Procure six or eight kidneys, take off the skin which covers 
themi wash them in clean cold water, cut them in slices the third 
of an inch in thickness ; melt in a frying-pan two ounces of 
butter, put the kidneys in the butter, season them with pepper 
and salt, stir in half a teaspoonful of flour, mix all well together, 
stir and toss about until the kidneys are beginning to brown, add 
half a wine-glass of Sherry wine, and a gill of broth, simmer a 
few minutes, and pour on nicely browned and crisp toast A 
few raw mushrooms, chopped and added to the butter before you 
put the kidneys in, are an improvement. 

If you add mushrooms, simmer them (after washing them in 
cold water) in the butter fifteen minutes before you add the kid 
ueys, and then simmer all together ten minutes longer. 

lAHB. 

For roasting, the hind or fore-quarter. 

For chops, the large end of the neck or the loin. 

For frying, the liver in egg and cracker. 

For stewing, the neok or the shoulder. 

* Eind-Quarter Boasted. 

The hind-quarter of lamb is considered the best part; wash it 
clean, season with cayenne pepper and salt, and dost it with 



50 COOKER T FROM EXPEBIENOE. 

flout; layit in a dripping-pan witii a onp fiiU of hot wster round 
it, roaat slowly two hoan ; when done lay it on a hot dish, make 
a gravy with the drippings from the meat, a little browned floiVi 
and boiling water, put a few spoonsftd over the meat, and ftlio 
vast in a gravy-boat; serve with mint sanoe. 

* Fore-Qnartor. 

Season and roast the same as the hind-qnarter ; an hoar and^ 
half is sufficient to oook it; when you take it from the pan \Kg 
it on a hot dish ; with a sharp knife lift the shoulder up from 
the bones by cutting round it, but do not cut it entirely loose ; 
into this cavity put a piece of butter the siie of an egg, the 
juice of a lemon, and a sprinkle of cayenne pepper ; lay the 
shoulder back, and serve with a little of the juice over the tof 
that ran from the meat; this is all tt^ ""vavy you will need, and 
it is a very fine one. 

* Shoulder of Lamb Broiled. 

Wash clean and wipe dry, put it on a gridiron over a clear 
fire, cover the top whilst it is broiling with an inverted dripping- 
pan, broil slowly first one side and then the other; when done 
lay it on a hot dish, butter and season both sides with cayenne 
pepper, and salt. 

* Leg of Lamb Stewed with Oreen Peat. 

Wash and wipe the lamb dry, season with salt and pepper, 
and dust with flour ; cover the bottom of a stew-pan with slices 
of bacon or salt pork, fry them until the fat is extracted; then 
take the crisp fat out, leaving in the clear grease, lay the leg in 
diis, brown both sides and all around, then add enough cold 
water to nearly cover the lamb ; simmer gently for three-quarters 
of an hour ; have half a peck of young green peas ready shelled 
and washed, put them around the leg, keeping just enough water 
on them to simmer but not boil them, oook gently for half an 
hour or until the peas are thoroughly cooked but not broken ^ 
when done dust a very little flour in them, just enough to make 



MEATS. 51 

the gravy stiok a little to tlie peas, or, as the Frencli Bay, to 
maak them, and serve the leg on a hot meat-dish with the peas 
around it 

*Lamb Cutlets. 

Tace ohops from the neok or loin, flatten them with a ohopperi 
dip eaoh one in beaten yolk of egg, then roll them in either 
very fine bread crumbs or cracker dust which has been seasoned 
with pepper and salt, and fry a nice brown in drippings or lard ; 
make the fkt boiling hot before you put the meat in it, garnish 
with parsley, and eat them with mushroom catsup or Worcester- 
shire sauce. 

Lamb's Liver. 

Out it in slices half an inch in thickness, beat the yolks of 
two eggs, dip the slices of liver in the egg, cover them with 
cracker dust seasoned with pepper and salt, and fry them in hot 
drippings or half lard and half butter. 

* Veck or Shoulder of Lamb Stewed. 

Brown the lamb in drippings, season with pepper and salt, 
pour over it two quarts of cold water, and stew slowly an hour 
and a half or until tender, letting the water gradually stew 
awayi then add a wine-glass of tomato catsup and a teaspoonfrd 
of browning, thicken with browned flour, pour the gravy over 
the meat and serve. 

* Hutton or Lamb Cutlets. 

Slices from the leg half an inch in thickness, broil them over 
a bright fire on a gridiron, turn them frequently : when done 
put them on a hot dish, season with pepper and salt, butter them 
l^bntiflilly and serve with current jelly. 

* To warm over Cold Mutton or Lamb. 

Out in thin slices, season with pepper and salt, lay the slices 
in a stew-pan with the remains of cold gravy, and two or three 
ftablespoonsfrd of tomato catsup and simmer slowly unUl the 
meat is very hot If you have no grav7 left over, put the bones 



§2 GOOKEB T FROM EJPEBIENCE. 

and trimmings into a stew-pan, oover with oold water, and boO 
them for an hoar before yon are ready to warm, the meat, then 
strain through a oullender, thioken with browned flonr, add the 
eatsup, and lay in the meat. 

* lamb's Kidneys. 

Gut the kidneys in small pieoes \ for six or eight kidneys, p«l 
in a stew-pan, batter the size of an egg, a wine-glass of water, a 
tabkspoonfol of floar, salt and pepper, a glass of wine, pat tlie 
kidneys in the pan, stew them five minntes, and serve in a hot 
eerered dish. 

FOBK 

* Leg of Pork Staffed and Eoasted. 

Proeore a leg of yoang pork weighing seven or eight poandS| 
wash it clean, score the skin across, so that it will all be marked 
oat in slices ; prepare a filling with a pint of fine bread-crnmbs, 
seasoned with black pepper and salt, a tablespoonfdl of dried 
sage rnbbed fine, two teaspoons of sweet marjoram, and one of 
sweet bisil, an onion chopped fine, a banch of parsley ditto, and 
a pieee of batter the sise of an egg melted and poured over, mix 
all well together, make an incbion through the leg parallel with 
the bone, fill with the dressing, secure it with skewers, season 
the outside of the leg with pepper and salt, dust with flour, rab 
with ine sage, put it in a dripping-pan with a little hot water, 
roMt two and a half hours, basting it frequently, when done, 
make a gravy with the drippings thickened with browned flour, 
add a li^e hot water, boil up, pour a little over the leg, serve 
the reasainder in a sauce-boat. Serve with apple sauce. 

* Baked Ham. 

Wash a smoked ham very clean, put it in a large kettle with 
•old water, boil rfowly, according to weight, allowing fifteen 
ninates to every pound, take out the ham, remove the skin, trim 
off all the black and smoked parts, paint it all over with yolk 
ef egg, sprinkle thickly with veivr fine bread crumbs, put it in 



MJEATti. 58 

tfie oven in a dripping-pan, baste it f^o or three timei witli 
good oooking wine, and roaat it nearly an hour, or until a ine 
brown all over, trim the knuckle with fringed writing paper 
and Berye hot. If to be eaten cold, let the ham remain in the 
water it was boiled in until oold, then skin it and proeaed as 
aboTe. 

Soast Pig. 

A pig to roast whole should be at least four weeks old. Out 
it open lengthwise, take out the entrailsi wash the pig yery clean, 
and let it lie in salt and water for twenty minutes to draw out 
the blood ; wash very clean the liver and heart, and put them in 
a small stew-pan, season with pepper and salt, add a large onioui 
out in quarters, and cover with cold water ; keep them boiling 
all the time you are preparing and roasting the pig. Make a filling 
of a quart of bread crumbs grated very fine, and seasoned with 
pepper and salt, three teaspoonsful of powdered sage leaves, two 
of sweet marjoram, a large onion chopped fine, a bunch of pars- 
ley ditto, and nearly a quarter of a pound of butter melted and 
poured over ; stir all thoroughly together ; take the pig from the 
telt and water, wash very clean in cold fresh water, wipe it dry 
inside and out, fill it With the dressing you have made, sew up 
the stomach, skewer the legs flat to the body, so that it will lie 
flat on them in the pan; season the outside of the pig with 
pepper and salt, and dust it with flour ; set it in a dripping-pan 
with half a cup of hot water around it to keep it from burning, 
and roast it two hours and a half, basting it frequently with 
butter and hot water stirred together in a basin or bowl, which 
keep near you. When the heart and liver are perfectly tender, 
take them out with a skimmer, chop the heart and put it back, 
mash the liver with a heaping tablespoon of browned flour, moist- 
ening it with some of the gravy. When perfectly smooth, stii 
it in the saucepan with the heart, give a boil up, and after you 
have dished the pig, pour all into the dripping-pan, stir about 
and boil up again \ serve in a gravy-boat. 

When you carve the pig, cut off its head first and then spill 
^ down the hun^ and cut between the ribs to serve. Cut round 



M OOOKEKT FROM EXPERIENCE. 

tlie legs and take them off as yon would the seoond joint ft a 
fowl. Serve with apple-sanoe. Bnb some powdered sage on tlia 
outside of the pig with the pepper and salt, when yon pnt it in 
the oven to roast. 

* Pork Steaks or CAopi. 

Broil them on a gridiron over a olear fire. When done, put 
them on a hot dish, season with pepper and salt, and a very little 
powdered sage; batter them plentiftdly and serve; or yon may 
fiy them in sweet lard, using very little, and first rubbing tJiem 
on both sides with powdered sage, and seasoning them with 
eayenne pepper and salt, and dusting them with flour. After 
you dish them, thioken the gravy, add a little hot water, give a 
boil up, and pour over them. 

* Spare Bibs. 

Orack the bones through the middle, season with pepper and 
salt, rub with powdered sage, and roast in the oven about an 
hour; baste occasionally. Serve with apple-sauce. 

Sausage. 

To ten pounds of pork add four ounoes of salt, and two ounoea 
black pepper, with a heaping tablespoonful of finely pulveriied 

sage leaves. 

Sausage, Ho. S. 

To ten pounds of meat, three tablespoonftds of salt, the same 
of powdered sage, one of black and one of red pepper. 

* Broiled Ham. 

Out slices half an inch thick, pare off the skin, trim off all 
the brown fet from the underside of the slices, ky them on a 
gridiron over a bright fire ; when the fat is slightly brown turn 
over and cook the other side, a very few minutes will suffice ; 
ham that is cooked too much becomes tough and dry^ it should 
be juicy and tender ; ham that is old and very salt should be 
stewed a few mmutcs before wther broiling or frying ; lay the 



MEATS. 55 

fllioes on tiie bottom of a fiying-pan, coyer with oold water, rim- 
mer for five minutes, poor off the water, wipe dry on a olean 
towel, and proceed as above. When the ham is done lay it on a 
hot lishi batter slightly, and serve. 

* Fried Ham and Eggf 

Out slices half an inch thick, pare off the rind and trim off 
the smoked parts, lay them in the bottom of a olean dripping- 
pan ; if the ham has any fat on it it will not be necessary to add 
any ; fry until slightly brown on both sides, turning very often, 
lay the slices on a hot dish, break one egg at a time in the hot 
fat until your pan is full, fry slowly until the white is set, but 
not until the yolk is hard, separate them with a sharp knife^ 
take them up with an egg^slice^ and lay nicely on the slices of 
ham. 

* Stewed HaaL 

Out a thin slice of ham, divide it in narrow strips two inches 
long by cutting the slice in half lengthwise, and then across 
again into strips ; pour boiling water on it, let it stand until 
cold, repeat this again, then drain off the water, put the ham 
into a frying-pan, stir it about until warm, add a bunch of 
chopped parsley^ and a coffeecup of cream, stew five minutes, 
and serve. 

* Scrapple. 

Procure a hog's head and two large livers ; if you cannot get 
hog's Uvers, one beefs liver ; after the head has been thoroughly 
cleansed, put it over the fire with a handful of salt and plenty 
of oold water, put the liver in another vessel also with cold water, 
boil the head until the meat drops from the bones, and the liver 
untU you can run a straw through it ; then chop the liver until 
as fine as powder, throwing away the water it was boiled in ; 
remove all the bones from the head and chop that as for head 
eheesci put both head and liver back into the water the head 
was boiled in, having first strained it and put it back into the 
vessel it was boiled in (it will require a very large pot or kettle,) 



56 OOOKEBT FROM EXPERIENCE. 

ieatfon with almost or qnite a pint of sage leaves nibbed ise^ 
black pepper and salt to yonr taste, and you most season highly 
with both, as the meal which yon add takes np a great deal of 
it ; when the seasoning is well stirred in, thicken with Indian 
meal and wheat flour in the proportion of two measures of 
Indian to one of flour, keeping the contents of your pot boiling 
all the time ; stir in with a long wooden or metol spoon ; whea 
M thick as mush set it off the fire, and dip out with a large 
iipper into the vessels you have prepared to hold it ; when cold 
Mt away and it will be ready for use next day. You must be 
careful to keep stirring all the time you are adding the meal, ox 
the serapple will bum. Cut in slices half an inch thick, and 
ftj a nice brown ; measure the Indian meal and flour in a kitchen 
b«wL 

*Pig*8 Feet Stewed. 

Boil the feet until very tender, but not until the bones emne 
out, take them out and drain thetb, lay in the bottom of a stew- 
pan thin slices of bacon or ham, lay the feet on them, season 
with a blade of mace, a bunch of parsley cut rather fine^ a 
smiJl onion sliced, and black pepper, cover with broth or stock, 
cover them closely, and bake in an oven three-quarters of an 
hour, thicken the gravy and pour over them. 

Hog*8 Head Cheese. 

Thoroughly dean the head^ which must be split open, put it 
ever the ire with plenty of cold water and a handful of salt, 
boil until the bones drop out, it will require five or six houn, 
or perhaps longer, as it depends on the size of the head \ when 
done drain off the broth, take out every particle of bone, put 
Am meat in a ehopping-bowl, season with plenty of pepper, red 
Mid black, half a teacup of sweet marjoram, the same of summer 
pavery, the same of sage, a teaspoonful of powdered allspice, 
¥m 9i eloves, a saltspoonful of powdered mace, chop altogether 
as ine as possible, add half a pint of the broth, and the same 
ef shag) vinegar, pack in moulds, and when cold cut in dkh 
sBoes. 



MEATS. 67 

* Pork Tenderloins. 

Prepue » filling as for a leg of pork; with a sharp, narrow- 
Dladed knife, make an incision through the centre of the meat 
from one end to the other; the tenderloins should be cut m 
lengths of about a foot each ; fill with the dressing, secure the 
ends with little skewers, to prevent the filling from coming out, 
mb the outsides with powdered sage, pepper and salt, dust with 
flour, lay them side by side in a dripping-pan, put a little hot 
water around them, and roast in a hot oven about three-quarters 
of an hour, thicken the gravy, pour over them when you serve 
them. Baste often, with butter and hot water. This dish is 
js fine in flavor as poultry. 

* Pig's Feet in Jelly. 

Clean thoroughly two sets of pig's feet, put them over the 
ire in three quarts of cold water, boil them slowly four hours, 
er until the meat falls from the bones, strain through a cullen- 
der, return the broth to the pot and boil until reduced to a pint ; 
take all the bones from the feet, and cut the meat in small pieces, 
but do not chop it; season it with black and cayenne pepper and 
salt, a teaspoon^l of powdered allspice, half an one of powdered 
cloves, and a pinch of powdered mace ; when the broth is re- 
duced add to it half a pint of sharp vinegar, put in the meat 
let it simmer two or three minutes, then pour into moulds ; it 
will be ready for use next day — turn out and serve whole, or 
out in thin slices before it goes to the table. If in a form it is 
a pretty dish to set on whole, to be cut at the table. 

* Baked Pork and Beans. 

One quart of small white beans ; two pounds of pickled pork ; 
put the beans on the fire in three or four quarts of cold water, 
let ihem come nearly to a boil, set them off the fire and let them 
eool : when nearly cold strain off the water and replenish with 
Ae same quantity as at first, of cold water, when they come te 
a boil, have the pork well washed and put it in with the beans, 
and boil it for half or three-quarters oi an hour then take out 



58 COOKERT FROM KXPKRTKNCK 



the porkyieofe itaenmtlia top; when lliebesiis axeteate^ 
iteiiB them from the witer, pot tiie pork in a hddng-diih, poor 
the beans nmnd it; take aboot a pint of the water they wen 
boiled in; stir in it two tabkspoonflfiil of mohusea, poor it ofw 
tte baana, and bake an boor in a hot o^en. If the water haa 
maeh graaae on it skim it oSf befixre adding the moliiwei 

• Pig's reet Boosed. 

The &et most be singed with homing paper, as yoo woold do 
a ehieken ; then serape them ekan, seald them, wash again in 
sold water, and pot them on the fire in a stew-pan or pot, ooyer 
them with eold water, add a tableepoonfol of salt, and boil them 
finr three or fimr boon, or longer, if neeesBaiy, ontil the meat 
drops from the bones. When they are done, there shoold be 
YOfj little water on them, as yoo most only keep enoo^ on 
them to prerent their sticking to the bottom of the TesBol and 
boming. When the feet are dime, take them oot with a per^ 
rated skimmer, lay them on a dish whilst yoo pick oot the 
bones. When this is done, haye ready a dean stone jar or pot, 
pot in a layer of the meat, season with plenty of pepper and 
salt and a few slices of onion ; then another layer of meat, 
pepper, salt and onion, ontil all is in the yessel; strain the 
broth they were boiled in, add to it as mooh good cider-yin^ar 
as yoo haye broth, and poor oyer the feet, coyering them with 
iL Set aside to cool; then pot them in a cold place, and they 
will be ready to ose next day. Pot the soose, when yon are 
ready for it, into a dripping-pan ; dost a little floor oyer it, and 
bake it an boor, more or less, aeoording to the heat of the oyoa; 
it most be a nioe brown. 

* Boast Chine of Po A 

. Score the skin, rob the pork all oyer with polyeriied s^ge, 
season with cayenne pepper and salt, and dost with floor ; pot it 
in a dripping-pan, with a little hot water, roast it in a hot oyen, 
allowing aboot twenty minotes to a poond, or a little more, if 
the oyen is not yery ^otw When done, serve on a hot dish 



UEAT8. fi9 

ttdoken the gravy with flour, give a boil np, add a little more 
water, and serve separately. Baste tlie pork often. 

* Friaded Ham. 

Shave onoooked ham as thin as paper, fat and lean together; 
pat in a frying-pan over a quick fire \ stir all the time nntil it 
begins to look brown and oorl up ; add two tablespoons of boiling 
water, give a boil np and serve. 

* Ham Bandwiehes. 

Out slices of cold boiled or baked ham, chop very fine, &t and 
lean together; add mixed or French mustard to yoor taste, or 
in the proportion of a teaspoonfol to a small bowl of chopped 
meat ; chop this in well ; cut thin slices of bread or rolls split 
in half, butter them, and with a broad-bladed knife spread a 
layer of the ham on a slice, and place over it another slice 
which has also been buttered. Or you may put very thin slices 
of cold ham, slightly spread with mustard, between the slices 
of bread and butter. 

* Leg of Pork Corned. 

Take a leg of young pork, weighing five or six pounds ; let it 
lie in pickle two weeks ; take it out, wash very clean, put it 
over the fire in cold water, and boil it twenty minutes for every 
pound, and serve it with mashed turnips or parsnips. Very 
nice either hot or cold. 

VEAL. 

For soup — the knuckle, feet, the head and the breast. 
For roasting — the loin, the breast and the fillet. 
For frying — outlets from the leg, and the sweetbreads. 
For stewing — the knuckle, the sinewy part of the leg and tliA 
ffweetbreads. 

For baking — the head. 

* To Soait a Loin of VeaL 

Season with pepper, salt, and dust with flour; to be roasted 
slewly for two and a half hour£( In a dripping-pan, witii a little 



60 COOKER T FROM MJTERIENCB. 

wmtor under it. Baste it frequently; and wlian done, tldelcM 
tlie gnvy with a little flonr. 

*Fillet Of YeaL 

The fillet is the thick end of the leg ; take the bone firom the 
oentre and prepare a filling as follows : Grate Tory fine a piat 
of bread cmmbs, add to them blaek pepper, salt, a tea^K>onfvl 
of sweet marjoram, half an one of sweet basil, half a snu^ 
onion chopped very fine, a bunch of parsley ditto, a saltspoonfok 
of grated nntmeg, the same of lemon-peel grated, and stir aft 
well together ; melt in a sanoe-pan a piece of butter the siie 
of an egg and pour over the erumbs, stirring it through until 
every crumb has its share ; break an egg on this, and mix that 
In well ; fill up the place you took the bone firom ; then with a 
sharp knife make deep incisions through the meat and around 
it, and fill them with the remainder of the dressing ; season the 
meat on the outside witb pepper and salt, dust it with flour, 
cover the top of it with a sheet of writing-paper well buttered; 
skewer the meat in a nice round shape; if necessary, tie it 
around the side with a broad tape ; cover the bottom of the 
stew-pan with thin slices of pickled pork, lay the meat on thom| 
pour around it half a pint of boiling water, cover closely and set 
in the oven ; baste it occasionally, removing the paper to do so. 
and replacing it again; bake slowly three hours. As the water 
dries away, replenish it from a kettle of boiling water. When 
the fillet is done, remove the string and skewers, lay it on a hot 
dish, thicken the gravy with browned flour ; if not enough, add 
water, pour a little over the meat, and serve the remainder in a 
«moe or gravy-boat. 

Baked Calf s Head. 

When you purchase the head, get your butcher te split il 
open, take out the eyes, and chop the nose off; lay it in edd 
water with a handM of salt for half an hour, change the water, 
wash and cleanse the head thoroughly, take out the brains, 
re al. the skin and blood, and tie them up in a efotk. 



MEATS. 61 

uid put tbom with tlie head in a large pot of boiling water, with 
a handful of salt ; boil the head until jou can twist the jaw-bone 
out of the meat, which will be in a little over two hours. The 
brains will be done in half an hour, and must be taken out. 
rhen remove the head, take out all the bones, but keep it as 
nearly whole as you can ; butter a deep baking-dish, lay the 
brains in the middle of it, spreading them a little, put the head 
on them, season it plentifully with powdered cloves, pepper and 
salt, stick pieces of butter rolled in flour wherever you find a 
erack or opening, dust with flour, mix in a bowl half a pint of 
good cooking wine, and the same of the broth the head wai^ 
boiled in, and pour over the head ; set it in a hot oven and bake 
it about three-quarters of an hour, or until it is very brown, 
basting it several times. You may add a little grated nutmeg over 
the meat with the other seasoning, but it must not predominate. 
It is nicer to be baked in a dish that you can send it to table in, 
though if you prefer it, you may remove it to a dish and serve. 
Be careful to retain the shape of the head as nearly as possible 
when you place it in the baking-dish. 

* Knuckle of Teal Stewed. 

Gut it in four or five pieces, put it over the fire in a sauce-pan 
with just enough water to cover it, season with pepper and salt, 
stew until perfectly tender and the water reduced one-half; then 
add to it three ounces of butter rubbed to a paste, with a table- 
spoon heaping full of flour, a bunch of parsley chopped fine, and 
a coffeecup fiill of rich cream ; give all one boil up and serve. 
This is as nice as chicken. 

* Teal Cutleta. 

Have about two and a half pounds cut in slices half an inah 
tkiek, from the best and thick end of the leg af veal; cut the 
meat in pieces the size of a large oyster ; beat the yolks of two 
eggs in a large bowl, put the pieoes of veal all in the egg, stir it 
around until all the egg is taken up by the veal, then roll each 
pieee in cracker dust which has been seasoned with popper and 



62 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

salt, and fry in butter and lard, or all lard if it is very niae. 
Serve tlie cutlets in a flat dish, thicken the remains of the burd 
in the pan with browned flour, add a little water, and serre in a 
grayy-boat. 

* Veal Pie. 

For this purpose, the lower end of the neck, cr chops cut from 
the loin or leg may be used ; season the pieces of meat with 
pepper and salt; dust them with flour, have some butter and lard 
mixed, make it hot over the fire, lay in the meat, brown on both 
sides, add half a teacup of water, and let the meat simmer for 
fifteen or twenty minutes ; take it out to cool ; prepare a crust, 
line a deep dish (one that has a flat edge b the best), lay in the 
veal with strips of pickled pork over each layer, pour over the 
gravy ; if not enough to cover the meat, add water, dust flour 
over each layer as you place them, cover with a crust, and bake 
three-quarters of an hour in a hot oven. 

* Calf 8 Head Scalloped. 

Cleanse the head thoroughly, let it lie in cold water with a 
hand^l of salt to draw out the blood, then remove the brain, 
take out all the skins, wash very clean, and tie them up in a 
clean cloth, put them with the head into a pot of boiling water, 
with a tablespoonful of salt ; boil the head two hours, the brains 
will be done in half an hour, when you must take them out; 
take the meat from the bones and cut it into small pieces but do 
not chop it, stir the brains through the meat, and season all 
together with pepper and salt to taste, a teaspoonful of sweet 
maijoram dried and rubbed fine, a bunch of parsley chopped, a 
piece of onion the size of a hickory-nut also chopped fine, a 
aaltspoonful of grated nutmeg; stir these all well together in a 
large bowl ; butter a baking-dish, using as much butter as you 
ean, covering it well, put the meat in, cover the top with grated 
bread-crumbs, sprinkling a little pepper and salt over them ; mix 
in a bowl half a tumbler of good cooking wine, and the same 
quantity of the broth the head was boiled in, put little pieces 
of butter over the top of the crumbs, pour over the wine and 



MEATS. 68 

bfodi, taking oare to wet all the ommbs with it^ and bake in 
qniok oyen about three-quarters of an hour. You may add two 
beaten eggs to the meat, and it will be improved by it. 

* Calf i Head Tricasieed. 

Prepare and boil the head and brains as for scallop, take the 
bones all oat, and out the meat into pieces half the size of an 
egg; stir the brains through the meat, season with pepper and 
salt, a yery little grate of nutiheg and a bunch of parsley chopped 
fine ; put aU in a stew-pan with a teacup of the broth the head 
was boiled in; let this heat but not boil, whilst it is warming; 
rub four ounces of butter to a paste ith a tablespoonful of 
flour, stir this through the meat, and add a coffeeoup of oream 
QX veiy rich milk, give all a boil up, and serve. 

* Blanquette of TeaL 

Gut two thick slices from the best end of a leg of veal, they 
should be an inch in thickness; divide each slice into six or eight 
pieces, they should be about the size of a large oyster ; season 
the meat with pepper and salt, and lay it in a stew-pan, with a 
very little water, not enough to cover the top of the meat, stew 
gentry, turning often, until the meat is very tender, replenishing 
the water from a kettle as it cooks away, but never enough to 
oover the meat; when perfectly tender, add a bunch of parsley 
chopped, two blades of mace, and a piece of onion half Uie siie 
of a small nutmeg, also chopped, stew again for three minutes ; 
rub to a (MSte a piece of butter the size of an egg and a table- 
spoonfuJ of flour, stir this in, and add a large coffeeoup of 
eream ; give one boil up, and serve. 

* Breast of YeaL 

Season with pepper and salt and dust with flour, put it in a 
dripping-pan with a little water, and roast it, allowing twenty 
minutes to the pound ; when done, make a gravy with the drip- 
pings which have nm from the meat, with a little brown flour 
Gtt thiokening and half a teacup of hot water, and serve with a 



64 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

few BpooBflM of the gnyy over the meat, the renudnder im • 
savee-boat. Some persons staff this part of the veal ; to do aOi 
nm a sharp knife horiiontallj between the meat and the bonea, 
make a filling as for the fillet, push it in the place you hare t«ty 
skewer it in, and season and roast. 

* Calf's LiTer wifh Cream, 

Wash the liver whole, wipe it dry and ont it in sliees half an 
inch thick, season with pepper and salt, and dnst with flour; 
melt in a frying-pan a tablespoonful of butter or very nice drip- 
pings, lay in the slices and fry them a light brown; take the 
frying-pan from the fire and cut the liver into pieoes half an 
inch square; stir into them a teaspoonfril of floor and a ooffe»- 
enp of rich cream ; put back on the fire^ give one boil up, stir- 
ring all the time, and serre. A very nice relish for breakfiMit 
or supper. 

* Calf's Liyer with Muihroomi. 

Wash and wipe the liver, cut it in slices half an inch thidc; 
season with pepper and salt and dust with flour, fry in a litde 
butter a light brown, take out the liver with a perforated skim- 
mer, and place it where it will keep warm, but not cook or dry | 
put in the frying-pan that you took the liver from, a half a tea* 
eup of boiling water, wash clean a quart of mushrooms, draii 
them and put them in the pan, and stew twenty minutes, oi 
until tender ; chop a bunch of parsley and add to them ; give 
a boil up and then stir in the liver, thicken with a teaspoon of 
flour mixed into a paste, stew five minutes and serve. You may 
add a little cayenne pepper when you put the liver in the paa^ 
and a little more salt, if needed. 

* Sweetbrtods Larded. 

Wash the sweetbreads and put them in a sauce-pan with bail* 
ing water ; cook them fifteen minutes, or until they are white 
and firm ; lay them on a dish to cool ; cut strips of ihe fat of 
pickled pork a quarter of an inch square and about four in^es 
long, draw these through the sweetbreads, leaving half an iaeb 



MEATS. 6ft 

outside at both ends \ brown them in bntter, tnnung tke» unftO 
a light brown on every side ; if served with green peu, Uj 
them round a dish and serve the peas in the centre. 

* Fried Sweetbreads, No 1. 

Lay them in cold water for an hour ; put in a stew-pan a pint 
of water, a tablespoonfal of vinegar, a few slices of onion, six 
peppercorns, two cloves, and a bunch of parsley and thyme; 
boil all together for three minutes, then put in the sweetbreads, 
boil them one minute; take them out, throw them into cold 
water for half an hoir ; lay them on a board, cover tbeiVL with 
a plate, set a weight on them for a few minutes. Eor Al sweet- 
breads put in a pan a quarter of a pound of butter, melt it willi 
a heaping teaspoonfal of flour, lay in the sweetbreads, covti 
(hem with a good broth, and simmer foi fifteen or iwenijy 
minutes, or until the broth hafl stewed away somewhat ; tk«i 
add pepper and salt, a tablespoonful of browning, boil up and 
serve. 

* Tried Sweetbreads, Vo. S. 

Parboil the sweetbreads fifteen minutes, split each one hori^ 
lontally in half, season them with pepper, salt and a tiny grate 
of nutmeg ; melt in a frying-pan three ounces of butter, lay th* 
sweetbreads in, &y a light brown; when done, thicken tht 
butter with brown flour, add two teaspoons of burnt sugar and 
a little hot water ; boil up, pour over the sweetbreads and serve. 

* Sweetbreads with Mushrooms. 

Blanch the sweetbreads for fifteen minutes; for six large 
sweetbreads, chop half a can of mushrooms ; chop the sweet« 
breads and mix with the mushrooms, throw in half a doien 
mushrooms without chopping ; put all in a stew-pan with pepper^ 
salt, two tablespoonsful of hot water and three ounces of butter; 
rimmer twenty minutes, then add half a teacup of cream or 
new milk, with two teaspoons of flour mixed in it; bi>il u^ a»d 
•erve. This is a very fine did:. 
6 



66 COOKER T FROM B20PEBIENOB. 

* Sweetbreads Stewed. 

Wash the sweetbreads and blanch them in boiling water for 
a few minntes only, take them out and lay them in eold water 
for ten minutes; then put them in a sauoe-pan with broth 
enough to cover them, stew until tender ; add to th<mi a pieoe 
of butter the size of an egg mixed to a paste with a tablespoonfU 
of flour, a bunch of parsley chopped, and a large oofFee-eup of 
oream ; boil three minutes and serve. 

* Sweetbreads Broiled. 

Wash them and blanch for five minutes in boiling water, lay 
them between the wires of an oyster-broiler, over a bright fire ; 
turn them very often until a light brown, brush over them a 
ittle melted butter whenever you turn them;' season them 
f hen done with black pepper, salt, and a small pieoe of butter 
c each sweetbread, and serve on a hot dish. 

* Knuckle of Teal Bagout 

Out the meat all off the knuckle, slice it half an inch thick, 
pepper, salt and flour them, fry them a light brown in nice drip- 
pings ; crack the bone and break it into several pieces, and put 
It with the trimmings into a stew-pan, with an onion, a head of 
oelery, a bunch of parsley and thyme, and two blades of maoe; 
pour cold water on them to cover, cover the pot closely and stew 
gently for two hours ; then strain it, rub a pieoe of butter the 
sise of an egg to a paste with a tablespoon of browned floury 
stir it in, with a tablespoon of tomato catsup, a glass of wine 
and the juioe of a lemon ; lay in the meat, give all a boil up 
and serve. 

•Calf's Head Fried. 

Prepare the head and brains as for scallop, put the head only 
in a pot of boiling water with a tablespoonful of salt ; when the 
head has been boiling an hour and a half, put the brains in tied 
up in a cloth ; continue to boil for another half hour, then take 
out the head, leaving the brains remaining in the broth, which 
eontinue to simmer ; take the meat from the bones, and eut b 



KEATS. a 

in pieces the sme of a large oyster, but not jatting ap the tongaey 
throw it back into the broth with the brains. Beat up the yolks 
of two eggs, dip the meat in the egg, and then cover with 
oraoker dost which yon haye seasoned with pepper, salt, and a 
little grated nutmeg (very little), and hj a nice brown in hoi 
drippings or half batter and half lard ; when the meat has been 
browned on one side and tamed, prepare the brains as fbllows : 
take them firom the cloth, have ready two hard boiled eggs, chop 
them very fine, mash the brains in a bowl with a silver or 
wooden spoon, stir in the egg, beating it well together, season 
with pepper, salt and a little grated natmeg ; now take oat the 
tongue, take off the skin, lay it on a small oyal dish, dress the 
brains around it ; by this time the meat will be done ; serve it 
on a hot dish, and send all in together. 

CalTs Lirer. 

Wash the liver before you slice it, and wipe it dry; then cui 
It in slices half an inch thick, season them with pepper and salt, 
and dust them with flour ; melt in a frying-pan a little good 
drippings or very nice lard, when hot lay in the slices, and fry 
very slowly until quite brown on both sides, take out the liv«r 
and laj the slices side by side on a hot dish ; dust some flour 
into the firying-pan, shake it about until well mixed with the 
grease, add a little hot water, boil up and pour over the liver. 

* Baked Ham and YeaL 

Chop finely two pounds of lean veal, the same of ham, keep> 
ing them separate, season the veal only with pepper and salt to 
your taste, then add half a saltspoon of grated nutmeg, the 
same of lemon-peel grated, a teaspoonful of chopped paisloyi 
the same of sweet marjoram^ melt a piece of butter the size of 
in egg, pour over and stir all thoroughly together; butter a 
large bowl, put in the bottom a layer of the veal, pressed closely^ 
then a layer of ham, each about half an inch in thickness, then 
veal again, and ham, and so on until you have the bowl foil} 
cover closely, and bake an hour and a quarter ; when cold turn 



t»8 COOKERY FROM EXBERIENCE. 

oat and oat thin slioes ; this is very nioe as a relish for tea oi 

for hmoheon. 

Anothftr Way. 

Three pounds of veal, and two of lean fresh pork ehopped 

finely, ten oraokers rolled fine and sifted, a tablespoonfrd of 

ehopped parsley, the same of thyme dried and rubbed or 

ehopped when freshly gathered, and the same of summer savory ; 

melt three ounces of butter and pour oyer, mix all weU together/ 

tdd salt and pepper to your taste, and a small onion chopped ; 

beat six eggs, stir them through, and bake slowly an hour and 

a half; when eold, cut in thin slices, garnish with parsley, and 

use for lunch or tea. Bake in a large bowl, packed as closely 

as possible. 

* Bewitched VeaL 

Three pounds of uncooked yeal minced very fine, a quarter 

of a pound of salt pork or cold boiled ham ditto ; roll very fine 

crackers to make a small teacupM, beat up three eggs and mix 

with the crackers, stir these all together, and add three teaspoons 

of salt, two of black pepper and one of sweet marjoram dried 

and rubbed fine ; knead this all well together, butter large-siied 

bowls, press it down very tight in them, cover closely and bake, 

if in two, an hour and a half; to be cut in thin slices when 

eold. This is a very nice relish for tea or for picnics ; to be 

eaten with walnut or tomato catsup or Worcestershire sauce. 

* Curry of Tripe. 
Put in a stew-pan two ounces of batter, cut into it two large 
onions, and stir over the fire until brown, add to it a pint of 
broth, made from any bones you may have ; mix to a smooth 
paste two tablespoonsful of curry powder, and stir it in the 
broth ; have ready boiled two pounds of tiipe, cut it in smaD 
pieces, stir it in the broth, and simmer slowly for an hour ;''if 
not thick enough add a little browned floor, give a boil up and 
serve with boiled rice. 

♦ Veal Curry. 
Two pounds of meat from the leg or breast of veal * put il 
in a frying-pan with a little salt, and two ounces of butter, let it 



■^■^^^^^^■■^^^^^^■^^■i^w^l^^^^^J^^^^" 



MEATS. 69 

hnmn slightly on ooth sides, out into it a large onion, and add 
a tablespoon^l of chopped parsley, and a pint of broth made 
by boiling the bones and trimmings of the yeal in a little water 
an hour and a half before you pnt the real on the fire ; strain 
tile broth over the veal ; mix to a smooth paste a tablespoonfal 
and a half of curry powder with a little cold water, add it to 
the broth, turn the meat about in it, until thoroughly irized, 
and set it where it will simmer slowly for an hour and a half; 
add a little browned flour, give a boil up and serve with boiled 
rioe. The veal for curry should be out in slices half an inch 
thick and kept entire. 
Two slices from the leg will weigh about two pounds. 

Breast of Veal Stuffed. 

Take out all the bones, put them in a stew-pan with oold 
water and simmer them for a broth ; make a filling of a quart 
of bread crumbs rubbed very fine, season with pepper and salt, 
a tea8poon heaping full of sweet marjoram, half an one of 
sweet basil, a small onion chopped fine, a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, half a saltspoon of grated lemon-peel, the 
same of nutmeg, a beaten egg, and a piece of butter the size of 
an egg, melted and poured over,, mix all well together, spread 
over the veal,, leaving an inch all round the outside, roll it 
tightly and secure it with strings or skewers, put it in a stew- 
pan, season with pepper and salt, pour around it the broth from 
the bones, set it in the oven covered closely, baste very fre- 
quently, stew until tender, thicken the gravy with browned 
flour, pour over and serve. This will require about an hour and 
ft half to cook. 

* Leg of Veal Salted. 

Prepare a pickle as fbr corned beef, lay the leg in for three 
weeks, then hang it in a dry place, and in a few days it will be 
ready for use : shave off very thin slices, melt a little butter in 
a frying-pan, pat in the veal and stir it about until cooked| 
whifih will be in a few minutes, dust with flour, add half a te»- 
9vp V lum. give a boil up, and serve ; this is a very nice 



TO COOKERY FROM EXPERIRNCS. 

nfieh tot breakiast or tea in tha ooontij, whan jcra obbboI 
ahn^B pioenn a rariety. 

* T«al ud Ham Pattiaa. 
Pnpan half a pound of half pnfi pasto, roll it o«t a qnaztat 
•f an iaeh in tfaieknees, eat it into aa many aqnana as 70a have 
pattj-pana, aorer them, brim round and laj in eaoh a |ueoe of 
braad aa inch tbiok, and neatly aa lu^ nond aa the inaide 
of year patty-pan, oorer them wiUi eniat rolled the aame thiek- 
aeaa aa that on the bottom, wet Ae edge td the under onst 
bef<H« yon lay the lid on, preea it aronnd to make it atiek, and 
bake fifteen minBtea in a hot oven ; then eat a round pieee oot 
of the Ud, take ont the bread, and fill them mth the Teal and 
ham prepared as fbUowa : Chop half a pound of ocdd roaat Teal, 
half the quantity of eold boiled or raw ham, piU it together into 
a Btew-paa, with two ouneea vi batter, two teaapocmsfnl of lonr, 
a gill of oream, half a gill of broth, a Httle grated nutmeg, pep- 
per and a rery little Bah if needed, and a little chopped panley, 
rtew orer the fire aboat six or eight minnlca, Mining all tha 
time; then fill the pattiee and mttb. 

Teal and Hah Fia. 

^ke two poonda of real eotlet, ent them in Ihin shoei half tha 

■ae of yoor hand, and one poond of either raw « eold btnled 

ham eat the aame way, line a deep diah with tha envt &r meat 

piM, p«t in the bottom a layer of the veal, aeaaon with pe^o 

and a rei; little salt, afiee a hard-boiled ^g and qaead ot«, 

Miew orer the b^ little pieoea of batter, dnst with loot U^tly, 

tken pat a layer tS the ham, and <m that a layer half aa iaA 

t, then another layer ef the real, aea- 

1 flveemeat; poor orer all a en fc e e^ 

a the trimmingi of the Teal, or what ia 

Teal graTy ; eorer with eraat, ~~-~-"* 

ent ont of the paat e , and bake alow^ 

r with thick p^etwhea brown naimh 

raid he cut Toy thin 



Ill fulfill 


lUipmi 


thstri 

tothi 
fordi 
flour, 
d turl 

wned 


, wash and di7C: 

ithaltheheatmaysei 
at is, in about fifteen 
temperature to that 
ked add salt to the 
to roast a ten-poun 
ler melted in hotwa 
ined. Garnish with - 
uea made of the bro 
the giblets chopped 


1, th 
the 

red 
but 

tSa 
and 


iil!!ii!ll 




MM 



liliisl-slil 

a||||l:|1i|| 






ill 






POULTRY AND GAME. 



* Boast Turkey. 

Singe the turkey wiUi burning paper, pick out all the pen« 
feathers, wash it olean and wipe it dry ; then draw out the 
entrails, imd wash the inside of the bird with several waters; 
prepare a filling as follows: bread-ommbs sufficient to fill it 
loosely (it should neyer be packed in any kind of poultry or 
birds), season with half a teaspoonful of sweet basil, one of 
sweet marjoram, an onion chopped very fine and stewed for five 
minutes in a quarter of a pound of butter, which pour over ; 
pepper and salt, and if convenient two dozen oysters chopped 
fine, fill the bird with this, reserving a little to put in where the 
oraw oame ^m, put the ends of the legs through the opening 
you made when you drew it, letting the joint come just through 
the vent, turn the wings back and run a skewer across through 
them, securing it with a string, skewer the legs in the same way, 
season the outside of the turkey with pepper and salt^ dust with 
flour, and place in a dripping-pan, pour round it a cup of water. 
If the turkey is a very large one it will require three hours, one 
of ten pounds will roast in two hours, and a small one in an 
hour and a half; baste it frequently. For the gravy, when you 
first draw the turkey, put the liver, ^zzard, end of the wings, 
and a piece of the neck, and the heart into a stew-pan, with 
half a large onion cut in two, pepper and salt, cover with cold 
water and simmer for several hours ; when perfectly tender, take 
out the liver and giziard, chop the latter and put it back, rub 
the liver to a smooth pas '8 with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg 
and a piece of butter as large as a walnut^ moisten with ^me 

f71) 



72 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

•f the broth, add % heaping tablespoon of floor, stir this inta 

the sa«ee-pan, boil up once, when you dish the turkey, pour the 

eontents of the sauoe-pan into the dripping-pan, stir it round 

until brown, pour a few upoonsful over the turkey after you 

have removed the skewers And strings, and serve the rest in a 

gravy-boat. 

* Boiled Turkey 

Prepare the turkey as for roasting, make a filling of bread 
enunbs seasoned with pepper and salt, a teaspoonful of sweet 
marjoram, half an one of sweet basil, three ounces of melted 
butter, and twenty-five raw oysters chopped and poured in with 
a few spoonsful of their juice, mix thoroughly and fill the turkey 
but do not pack it, sew up the place you filled it through, truss 
the legs and wings as for roasting, and put it in a large meat- 
boiler, with a tablespoon^ of salt, and cover with hoUiiug water ; 
keep a kettle of boiling water to replenish with, and allow fifteen 
minutes to every pound of turkey. If you put oysters in the 
filling serve with egg-eauce, as oyster-sauce destroys the taste 
of the seasoning, if you omit the oysters in the filling put a 
small chopped onion in the place of them, and serve with oyster- 
sauce. 

Aagout of Cold Boast Turkey. 

Gut off the meat from the bones in as large slices as it wiU 
allow, and quite thin, put any cold gravy left from the roast, 
into a sauce-pan, if not enough to form the sauce, add butter 
rubbed to a paste with a tablespoonful of brown flour, half a pint 
of water, season the meat with pepper, salt, and half a saltspoou 
of powdered mace, or a blade of mace in the gravy, and twe 
tablespoons of tomato catsup, or mushroom if preferred, put in 
the cold fowl, let it simmer gently for five minutes, then add a 
tablespoon of lemon juice and a glass of wine, boil up aud serve. 

Another way. 

Cut the meat from the bones as above, bi^ak up the boneS| 
put them in a stew-pan, with cold water to cover them, boil 
them an hour, strain out the bones ; season the meat with pep- 



POULTRY AND GAME. 73 

p«tj salt, a very little grated nutmeg and a teaspoonfol of obopped 
parsley, add it to the broth, and when hot stir in a tablespoonfiBLl 
of fionr and the yolk of an egg mixed in half a ettp of xieh 
cream, add a piece of bntter the size of an egg, stir orer the 
fire until it thickens, and serve ; add any cold gravy you may 
have and leave out a little of the water. There should be very 
little broth. 

* Boned Turkey. 

Singe the turkey, draw it, wash it clean, wipe dry, and lay it 
on a dean oloth ; then with a sharp knife and your fingers take the 
bones firom the legs and thighs, twisting and breaking the joints, 
the same with the wings, then dlit the bird up the back from 
the neck to the rump, and with the knife and your fingers de- 
tach the meat j^m the bones, slowly and gradually, until you 
can draw out the whole carcass ; chop very fine two pounds of 
lean ham, grate two quarts of stale bread crumbs, mix the ham 
well through them, and add an onion chopped very fine, a tabl^ 
spoonful of chopped parsley, two teaspoonsfU of sweet maijorami 
one of sweet basil, half a salt«poonM of grated lemon-peel, the 
same of nutmeg, four hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, a small 
teaspoonful of black pepper, and six ounces of melted buttefi 
mix all well together, fill the body of the bird and sew it up the 
back, make it as nearly as possible the shape it was before you 
boned it, the body must be stuffed very tightly to do this, then 
put some of the dressing in the legs and wings where you re- 
moved the bones, truss it and secure it with the skewers so that 
the filling will not fall out, season the outside of the bird, and 
roast it slowly a quarter of an hour for every pound, basting it 
frequently, and covering with buttered paper if getting too 
brown. Prepare a jelly as follows : have ready three or four 
quarts of stock, that from boiled chickens is the best, ftom wkidk 
you have taken all the fat, bring it to a boil; whisk the wUtei 
and shells of two eggs in a basin with half a pint of cold water, 
stir this in the stock, bring it to a boil again, strain through a 
olean cloth, and add two boxes of Cox's gelatine that has beea 
soaked in cold water to cover, for an hour, stir this in wM 



74 OOOKEBY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

ihoronghly dissolved, then lay tHe turkey breast down in a deep 
pan or mould, poor the jelly around and oyer it and set in • 
eool place for twen<y-four hours, turn it out on a large dish, breast 
upwards, and garnish and serve. 

* Boast Chickens. 

Prepare the chickens by singeing, drawing and washing very 
clean in several waters, grate a little over a pint of bread crumbs 
for each chicken, season with pepper and salt, a teaspooni^l of 
sweet marjoram, and half a one of sweet basil, an onion chopped 
very fine, and a bunch of parsley the same ; melt three ounces 
of butter, and pour over, mix thoroughly, beat an egg and mix 
it well through, fill the chickens, truss them the same as turkey, 
season with pepper and salt, and dust with flour, lay them 
across a dripping-pan, with a little water around them, roast in 
a hot oven, allowing an hour and a half if large, and less time 
if very young ] baste them frequently ) fbr the gravy, put in a 
stew-pan, the ends of the neck, the gizzards and hearts, an onion 
cut in half, pepper and salt, and cover with cold water, simmer 
for three hours at least; put them on the fire as soon as the 
poultry is drawn, and let them cook all the time the fowls are 
preparing ; when done, chop the gizzards and put them back ; 
rub the livers to a ^aste with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg and 
% heaping tablespoon of flour, moistening with the fat part of the 
broth the giblets were oooked in, or a little firom the dripping- 
pan ; stir to a smooth paste, and add it to the contents of the 
stew-pan ; give a boil up, and when the chickens are dished, 
pour all in the dripping-pan, stir round, boil up and serve \ put 
a few spoonsful over the fowls, the remainder in a gravy-boat. 

* Boiled Chickens. 

Prepare and fill them the same as boiled turkey, and serve in 
the same way. If there are oysters in the filling, serve with 
drawn butter made with a little of the broth, butter the size of 
an egg and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and the same of 
lomr. If you omit the oysters in the filling, serve with oyste^ 
sauce. Egg-sauce is also a nice accompaniment for boiled fowb 



FOVLTBY AND GAME. 76 

^ A Brown Frioassea of Chicken. 

Singe, wash and draw the chickens, and carve them neatly 
into eleven pieces — the, wings (2), the legs (4), the breast 
iivided across the middle (2), the side-bones one, with the back 
(2), and the neck and ribs (1) ; wash very clean and lay in the 
bottom of a Jry%ng-p<mj with a V3ry little water around thenii 
kaving first sea&oned them with pepper and salt ; simmer slowly 
for, half an hour, taming them frequently, and keeping just 
•nongh water to them to prevent their burning ; when nearly 
tender enough, allow the water to boil away until the pan is 
almost dry; then add a quarter of a pound of butter, and 
brown them in this. When every piece is a nice brown, stir in 
a tablespoonfal of browned flour, mixed to a paste with cold 
milk ) if too thick, add a little more milk and a tablespoonfal 
of chopped parsley \ boil up and serve. 



Fricassee. 

Prepare and divide the chickens as for a brown fricassee, 
season with pepper and salt, and put them in a iteuhpan, with 
eold water to cover them about an inch over the top; simmer or 
BCew them gently until tender; if they are young chickens, an 
hour will be sufficient time to cook them ; if older, they will 
take longer ; as they get tender, allow the water to stew away 
until when done there should not be more than a teacupful left 
in the vessel ; take out the pieces of chicken, lay them in a cul- 
lender to drain, setting it on a plate in the oven to keep hot, stir 
Into the broth a tablespoonful of flour rubbed to a paste with 
butter the size of an egg, a bunch of parsley chopped, and a 
ooffeecup of cream ; ^ve all a boil up, put the chicken in thisi 
rimmer five minutes, and serve the chicken on a hot dish, witli 
the gravy poured over. 

* Chicken Fie. 

Prepare the chickens, and divide them as for a fricassee ; put 
the giblets in a sauce-pan with cold water and stew them until 
nearly done, then lay the chicken in with them, season with 
pepper and salt, and simmer for twenty minutes ; take all out 



76 OOOKERY FROM EXPMRIENCE. 

with ft |>«rforat«d skimmer, ky on ft dish to oool ; mftke ft grftTj 
•f the broth by ftdding & tablespoonful of flour mixed to ft paete 
with ft little oold water, the yolks of two hftrd-boiled eggs 
ehopped, And ft tablespoonful of chopped pftrsley : give ft boil 
«p ftnd set aside j make ft good orust, line ft deep baking-disk 
with it, have half a pound of pickled pork washed and cut in 
skips half an inch square ; place a layer of chicken and a few 
strips of pork, season with a little pepp^ ftnd'one grate of nut- 
meg, moisten with a few spoonsful of the gravy; then another 
layer of chicken and p(»rk, seasoned as before, until all is in the 
dish ; pour the remainder of the gravy over the chicken, scatter 
ft few lumps of butter over the top, cover with crust, cut a few 
little incisions in the lid, and bake slowly nearly an hour. 

* Chicken Fot*pie. 

Prepare the chicken as above, but do not cook it ; make a 
erust of three pints of flour, cut through it with a knife a teacup 
of lard, add a teaspoon of salt and cold water enough to make a 
stiff dough, roll out twice, the last time not quite half an inch 
thick ; butter the inside of a smooth round-bottomed pot, line it 
withcrust, lay on this a few strips of pickled pork, then a layer of 
ehicken, and two potatoes which have been peeled, washed and 
eut in quarters ; season with pepper, a little salt (as the pork la 
salt), and a dust of flour ; then more pork, chicken, two more 
potatoes, and season as before. You may also add to each layer 
ft few little squares of crust. Proceed in this way until the po4 
is full, pour over boiling water to cover, put a crust over all^ 
eovisr closely and set in the oven ; cook very slowly for an hour 
and a half; add water occasionally, if not covered. When yon 
ion out the top crust, make several incisions across it, so that 
jw« eftn see how it is cooking, ftnd ftdd wftter, if necessftry; 
wliea the pie is neftrly done, tftke off the lid of the pot for ft few 
minutes, thftt the crust nuy brown ; tftke out the pie carefully 
with ft skimmer, and ky neatly en ft dish with the top ens* 
erer tkti ehieken. 



rOULTBT JJW QAMB. TT 

* Braised Chieken. 

PMpare tlie ohioken and truss it as for boiling, bat do a«l 
staff it ; ky slicos of pickled pork or baoon on the bottom ef 
a stsw-pan, pat the chicken on the bacon with the back down ; 
serape and wash % small carrot, oat it in thick slices ; add an onion 
peeled and cat ap, a head of celery the same, a banch of thyme 
and parsley chopped; lay these aroand the chicken, season with 
pepper and salt, and add foar or five cloves ; poar over a quart 
d^oold water ; simmer slowly an hoar, if the chicken is young, 
•r until tender; take out the chicken, thicken with a little 
browned flour, give a boil up, pour over the fowl and serve 

* Broiled Chicken. 

After the chickens have been drawn and well washed, spKt 
ihem through the back, flatten them with aoleaver or chopper, 
and lay them on a gridiron over a bright fire. They must be 
constantly watched and turned several times. When done, ky 
them on a hot dish, batter them well and dust with pepper and 
salt. Put the giblets in a stew-pan, with cold water, and pepper 
and salt ; simmer several hours ; when tender, chop the givard, 
mb the liver to a paste with a little butter and browned flov, 
stir in the gravy, give a boil up, and serve with the chick^i. 

Pilau of Chicken. 

Prepare a chicken and truss it as for boiling, but withovl 
fDing ; put it in a stew-pan, with sufficient boiling water te 
eover it ; add two blades of mace, a dozen whole cloves, the same 
•f allspice, same of peppercorns, same of cardamom seed, a 
small pinch of cinnamon and a teaspoon of salt ; let all simmer 
sbwly until the fowl is tender; take out the chicken, strain the 
broth and lay the chicken in again ; pick and wash a teacup of riee, 
pat it round the fowl, stew gently until tender, and serve. Plaee 
Ike chicken on a hot dish, the rice around it. You may make 
a brotif with the giblets and any trimmings of veal, and stew 
the fowl in this, with the other ingredients, as above. 



78 COOKERT FROM EZPESIENCK 

'ChiokflA and Ojiten. 
A wxsmur bsoifb. 

Fkepare and divide a chicken as for a pie, slew ii in enongk 
walCT to oorer it nntil tender, wbleli^ if a yonng ekieken, will 
be in an bofor ; if old, mnek longer. Take ont ike ekidcen and 
dnin it, keeping it kot; pnt in ike hqaot a qnarter of a pound 
of butter, mbbed to a pesto witk a keaping tablespoonfnl of 
flour ; eeason witk ndt and pepper ; add two kard-biHkd ^gs 
chopped and a tabkupoonfdl of ekopped parsley; drain one 
knndred oysterB, add tkem to ike gravy ; stew nntil tke qysten 
are eooked, wkick will be in a few minutes, and poor over the 
ekieken and serve. If ike oysters are large, fifty are snffieient. 

*Cliieken Cnixy. 

IHvide the chieken as for fricassee, pnt it in a stew-pan with 
a very little water ; simmer, closely covered, twenty minutes ; 
then take out ike chicken, and in the broiky wkick skould be 
very litile, fry ikree tkin slices of pork, wiik two onions slioed; 
then take out the pork, replace ike ekieken, add a little more 
water, if neoesssry ; mix one and a kalf tablespoonsful of eurry 
powder witk a litile cold water and a teaspoonful of flour; stir 
it in ike ekieken and stew until tender. Serve widi boiled riee 
in a separate disk. 

* Fried Ckieken. 

'Btepue ike fowls as for a fricassee, dividing ikem into eleven 
^eees; put ike ^blets in a stew-pan, wiik cold water to cover 
them, and a little pepper and salt, and allow ikem to simmer for 
several kours for ike gravy ; dip eack piece of ekieken into 
beaten yolk of egg and roll in cracker dust or veiy fine bread 
: crumbs (grated and sifted), and seasoned with pepper and salt| 
I and fry eack piece very brown in kalf butter and kalf lard or 
very nice beef drippings ; wken ike ekieken is done, serve on a 
kot disk ; ckop ike ^lets very fine and pour ikem, witk the 
broik tkey were oooked in, into ike dripping-pan you fried ike 



FOWLTBY AND GAME. 79 

ehioken in ; thicken with a little floor, and serre separately in a 
gravy-boat 

* OUeken Cniry, Ho. 8. 

Plrepare and divide the fowls as above ; put into a stew-pan 
batter the siie of an egg, lay the pieces of fowl in this when yon 
have made it hot, fry them a nice brown, pour over them broth 
to eover which yon have prepared by stewing the ^blets with a 
large onion or two smaJl ones; simmer in this for twenty 
minntes ; put in a bowl two tablespoons of curry powder, a tea- 
spoonful of browned flour and a little salt, mixed to a smooth 
paste with a little cold water; add this to the chicken, shaking 
it well t(^ther until it boils ; simmer gently fbr twenty minutes 
more, stirring and shaking to prevent it burning ; then add two 
tablespoons of cream, take up the chicken, pour the gravy overi 
and serve with boiled rice in a separate dish. 

* Barbecued Chiek«n. 

Prepare the chickens as for broiling, split them open on the 
back and flatten them with a cleaver, lay them in a dripping- 
pan, with the inside of the chickens next the pan ; season with 
pepper and salt and put them in a hot oven ; baste them occa- 
8i(mally with butter and water. They will take about three- 
quarters of an hour. When done, make a rich brown gravy, as 
for broiled chickens, pour it over them and serve. 

* flawed Pigeons. 

Out a quarter of a pound of fieit salt pork into strips, lay them 
fn a stew-pan with the pigeons, their livers and guards ; brown 
liiem m this ; then add two or three small onions, a bunch of 
parsley and thyme tied together, three doves, pepper to tastCi 
and boiling water suflicient to stew them ; cook until tender ; 
thicken the gravy with browned flour, and pour over the pigeons 
when you serve fliem. 



N OOOKEBY FROM EXPEBIENOM. 

* Boast Pigeoni. 

Whon tlie pigeons are cleaned, drawn and washed, put ika 
pbkis oyer the fire in a stew-pan, with cold water^ pepper and 
salt, and let them simmer several hours for the grayy ; prepare 
a filling of bread crombsi seasoned as for roast chickens, fill the 
Hids and truss them, lay them in a dripping-pan, season them 
with pepper and salt and dust them with flour ; put them in a 
hot OTcn, and when they begin to cook, baste them with butter 
and water ; repeat this frequently, roast about half an hout ; for 
the gravy, rub the livers to a paste with butter and browned 
flour, and stir them in the broth ; turn all out into the dripping- 
pan, when you have dished the pigeons^ give a boil up, pour a 
few spoons^l over the birds, the remainder in a gravy-boat. 

* Broiled Pigeons. 

For this the squabs or young pigeons must be used. Glean 
and split them down the back and flatten them, broil them on a 
gridiron over a bright fire ; when done lay them on a hot dish, 
season them with pepper and salt, butter them plentifully, and 
serve on nicely-brown toast, a slice under each bird. 

* Pigeon Pie. 

Olean and cut each bird in four quarters, line a deep dish 
with a good crust, place a layer of thin slices of pickled pork at 
the bottom, on these put a layered the birds, season with pepper 
and salt sprinkled over, butter the size ef a walnut out in little 
pieces and dust thickly with flour, place another layer of 
birds, and season as before ; when all the pigeons are in, cover 
the top with thin slices of pork, pour over all a pint of broth, 
or if you have none, the same of water, and cover with crust, 
aad bake an hour in a moderate oven ; leave an opening cut 
each way on the middle of the top crust, and if the pie seems 
dry add more broth. When the pie is done, cover this with an 
ornament of crust which you have baked separate^ on a pi» 
dish or tin. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 81 

* Partridg^ft. 

TheM maj be split and broiled, or stuffed and roasted — ^if tbe 
latter put the livers, gissards and ends of the neck in a small 
stew-pan, with pepper and salt, poor over a little cold water, and 
simmer for an hour or two for the gravy ; make a filling with 
bread crumbs, pepper and salt, a little sweet marjoram and half 
the quantity of sweet basil, some chopped parsley and melted 
butter, mix well^ fill the birds loosely, tie them round with wrap- 
ping oord, and lay them side by side in a dripping-pan; 
season them with pepper and salt, dust lightly with flour, and roast 
them in a quick oven for about half an hour, basting with 
butter and water. When they are done lay them on a hot dish, 
chop the giblets, and put them with the broth they were boiled 
In (which should not be more than half a teacupM), into the 
pan, thicken with a little browned flour, give a boil up, add a 
glass of Port wine, and pour over the birds. 

* Salmi of Toung Partridges. 

Half roast five young partridges, cover them with paper whilst 
roasting ; then out up the birds as for serving, that is, separate 
the legs, wings and Iveast, take off all the skin, and put it with 
the necks, back and sidebones into a stew-pan^ with a small 
onion, some strips of ham or fat pickled pork, a carrot cut in 
dice, three or four mushrooms, a bunch of parsley and thyme, 
two or three cloves, a dozen pepper corns, the same of allspice, 
and butter the size of an egg ; fry them slightly and then add to 
them three wine-glasses of Madeira wine, and a teacup of good 
broth, and let them simmer closely covered for an hour and a 
half, then strain through a sieve, lay in the gravy the joints and 
breasts of the birds, put them into a farina-boiler, and stir occa- 
sionally until boiling hot ; add to them a teaspoon heaping ^11 of 
browned flour mixed to a paste with a little cold water, and a 
tablespoonM of browning ; when the gravy has thickened and 
the meat is boiling hot, take out the birds, place them on a 
dish and pour tbe gravy over them and serve. 



M oooxxar »bom expxriencm. 

I^ n A* bottM of « deep dkk >GeM flf Twl bair n md 
hi ftiefcaew, ■eetm with peppor ud nk, ud « fittia flhopped 
pnle^; ««t die putiidgei in half ud hjthem <m the Teil, 
■neenniiift Umiii eilli ■ lirtlii pepper iBdnlt; wbeathe InrdHai* 
aD Eb, eo*« the top of them with elieea of ht baeoo or |Hdded 
pofk} hsre rmdj » gi*v7 nude with the tape of the ina^ the 
cade of th« neeks, and the ^lete, eteved Car ■bout en honr in 
mter to eorer them tad seuoned with pepper and ntt, a snaQ 
onion and a btuteh of pusley; diicken it a rei; little, itnun it, 
and add a g^aM of Sherry wine ; ponr it orer the birds, eorer with 
half puff paste sad bake an honr and a half in a qniek oroi, 
eorer with paper when the cmst is brown enongfa. 

^Woodooek. 
Woodeock maj be broiled, buttered wdl, Beaswed with pepper 
aad aalt and aerred on toast, or tbey may be stofied and roasted ; 
if the latter, prepare a filling as for partridges, staff the birds 
loosely, tie them nmnd with wrapping-eord, season with pe|^>er 
and salt, dust with floor, roast abont half an hour, basting with 
btttter and hot water ; make a gravy by stewing the ^blets in 
a very little water until tender, then ebop them and pnt than 
with their broth into the pan ; after yon have taken the birds ont, 
add a tableepoonfnl of onrrant jelly and a glass of Port wine; 
boil tip and ponr over the birds. Always bear in mind when 
making a gravy with the giblets of birds that there should 
not be more than a few tablespoonfala of broth before yon add 
the jelly and wine ; thicken with browned flonr. Snipe, or any 
other small birds, may be cooked in the same manner. 

iBsonts, 

e same as chickens, baste with 
y with the giblets, thicken with 
ine, and serve currant jelly with 
boor will be sufficient for a fall 



POULTRY AND GAME. 83 

*Oiii]ieft FowU. 

When young these birds are very fine ; make a filling as for 
ducks, and dress and serve them the same way, and aooompany 
ihem with currant jelly or cranberry sauce. 



*K6edBi] 

When cleaned, dip each bird in beaten yolk of eggs, then roll 
in bread crumbs or cracker dust which have been seasoned with 
pepper and salt, and fry a nice brown in half butter and half 
lard or sweet beef drippings. Or, they may be broiled and 
served on toast, with plenty of butter and a little pepper and 
salt 

Babbit Curry. 

Joint and wash the rabbit, and put it in a frying-pan with 
■trips of salt pork ; turn frequently until brown, then season with 
pepper and salt, cover with broth or water, add an onion cut in 
pieces and simmer an hour ; then add a tablespoonful of curry 
powder mixed to 4 paste with cold water, and stew twenty 
minutes longer, or until the rabbit is very tender ; thicken the 
stew with browned fiour, and serve with boiled rice. 

Babbit en civet 

PBOFESSOB blot's WAT. 

Out a rabbit in small pieces, put on. the fire in a pan with two 
ounces of butter, stir until brown ; then add a quarter of a 
pound of fat pork cut in strips, stir a few minutes, and add one 
tablespoonful of flour (mixed to a paste in cold water), half a 
pint of broth, one and a half gills of claret wine, a bunch of 
parsley and thyme, salt and pepper, and stew slowly until quite 
tender. 

* Fricasseed Babbit 

Joint the rabbit and cut in pieces, lay in cold water a few 
minutes, drain and put in a stew-pan with pepper and a quarter 
of a pound of pickkd pork cut 'n strips, cover with cold water^ 



74 OOOKERT FROM EJTPESIENCJS. 

thoroughly dissolyed, then lay the turkey breast down in a deep 
pan or monld, poor the jelly around and over it and set in % 
eool place for twenty-four hours, turn it out on a large dish, breasi 
upwards, and garnish and serve. 

* Boast Chickens. 

Prepare the chickens by singeing, drawing and washing very 
clean in several waters, grate a little over a pint of bread crumbs 
for each chicken, season with pepper and salt, a teaspoonful of 
sweet marjoram, and half a one of sweet basil, an onion chopped 
very fine, and a bunch of parsley the same ; melt three ounces 
of butter, and pour over, mix thoroughly, beat an egg and mix 
it well through, fill the chickens, truss them the same as turkey , 
season with pepper and salt, and dust with flour, lay them 
across a dripping-pan, with a little water around them, roast in 
a hot oven, allowing an hour and a half if large, and less time 
if very young; baste them frequently; fbr the gravy, put in a 
stew-pan, the ends of the neck, the gizzards and hearts, an onion 
cut in half, pepper and salt, and cover with cold water, simmer 
for three hours at least; put them on the fire as soon as the 
poultry is drawn, and let them cook all the time the fowls are 
preparing; when done, chop the gizzards and put them back; 
rub the livers to a 'paste with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg and 
1^ heaping tablespoon of flour, moistening with the fat part of the 
broth the giblets were cooked in, or a little fix>m the dripping- 
pan ; stir to a smooth paste, and add it to the contents of the 
stew-pan ; give a boil up, and when the chickens are dished, 
pour all in the dripping-pan, stir round, boil up and serve ; put 
a few spoonsful over the fowls, the remainder in a gravy-boat. 

* Boiled Chickens. 

Prepare and fill them the same as boiled turkey, and serve in 
the same way. If there are oysters in the fllling, serve with 
drawn butter made with a little of the broth, butter the size of 
an egg and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and the same of 
lour. If you omit the oysters in the filling, serve with oyster- 
sauce. Egg-sauce is also a nice accompaniment for boiled fowls 



FOVLTRY AND QAMK 75 

^ A Brown Fricassee of ChickeiL 

Snge, wash and draw the chickens, and carve them neatly 
into eleven pieces — the^ wings (2), the legs (4), the breast 
divided across the middle (2), the side-bones one, with the baok 
(2), and the neck and ribs (1) ; wash very clean and lay in the 
bottom of a firying-panj with a V3ry little water aronnd them| 
having first seasoned them with pepper and salt; simmer slowly 
for ^ half an hour, turning them frequently, and keeping just 
enough water to them to prevent their burning ; when nearly 
tender enough, allow the water to boil away until the pan is 
almost dry; then add a quarter of a pound of butter, and 
brown them in this. When every piece is a nice brown, stir in 
a tablespoonfril of browned flour, mixed to a paste with cold 
milk ; if too thick, add a little more milk and a tablespoonfdl 
of ehopped parsley ; boil up and serve. 



Prepare and divide the chickens as for a brown fricassee, 
season with pepper and salt, and put them in a stew-jHm, with 
eold water to cover them about an inch over the top; simmer or 
stew them gently until tender ; if they are young chickens, an 
hour will be sufficient time to cook them ; if older, they will 
take longer ; as they get tender, allow the water to stew away 
vntil when done there should not be more than a teacupful left 
in the vessel ; take out the pieces of chicken, lay them in a cul- 
lender to drain, setting it on a plate in the oven to keep hot, stir 
into the broth a tablespoonful of flour rubbed to a paste with 
butter the sise of an egg, a bunch of parsley chopped, and a 
ooflieecup of cream ; give all a boil up, put the chicken in thiS| 
simmer five minutes, and serve the chicken on a hot dish, with 
flie gravy poured over. 

* Chicken Pie. 

Prepare the chickens, and divide them as for a fricassee; put 
ihe giblets in a sauce-pan with cold water and stew them untU 
nearly done, then lay the chicken in with them, season with 
pepper and salt, and simmer for twenty minutes ; take all out 



86 COOKER T FROM EZFBRIENCE. 

nmmer for seyeral hours for the gravy; prepare a filling of 
bread emmbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, an onion chopped, 
two teaspoonsful of sage leaves dried and mbbed fine, and the 
same of sweet majoram, a tablespoonfol of chopped paisley, and 
batter the size of an egg melted and ponred over ; fill the bird, 
trass it, season and roast the same as tarkey ; make a gravy of 
the broth with the giizard chopped and the liver rabbed fine 
frith a little batter, thicken with browned flonr, give a boil ap, 
pat a few spoonsM over the goose, the remainder in a gravy- 
boat ; serve with a brown onionnsaaoe or apple-saace. If yo« 
prefer a potato staffing, boil six or eight potatoes, peel them, 
chop and season the same as above. 

To Dress Cold Ooose. 

Oat the meat from the bones, season with pepper and salt ; 
eat two onions ap and pat them in a frying-pan with an oance 
of batter, fry antil the onions are brown and tender ; add a table- 
spoonfal of browned floar, a wine-glass of tomato catsap and a 
teacap of broth, if yoa have no gravy left; if yoa have the 
latter, add water enoagh to make a capful ; pat in the goose, 
simmer for fifteen minates and serve. Yoa may add a glass of 
wine and the joioe of a lemon, if yoa want it more piqaaat 

* Canvas-back Dacks. 

Singe, and draw them and wash very clean, rinse oat the 
inside with warm water in which yoa have dissolved a small 
piece of soda ; then rinse again in clear cold water. Prepare a 
filling of a pint of grated and sifted bread crambs, season with 
pepper and salt, a small onicm chopped very fine, a little chopped 
parsley and a piece of batter the size of a hu^e egg melted and 
poared over ; mix all well together with a knife, divide it into 
two eqaal parts, and pat a portion in each dack ; trass them| 
secare the legs and wings with skewers, season them oatside 
with pepper and salt, and dast a little fioar over them ; pat them 
in a pan and roast tiiem in a qaiok oven about three-quarters of 
an hour ; if the ducks are very fat, put a little wai^r in the pa» 



POVLTBT AND GAME. 87 

with them, and baste them with their own diippings ; if they 
are not fat, baste them with batter and hot water stirred 
together. When the duoks are done and taken out of the pan, 
if there is much fat pour it off, and add to the gravy half a tea- 
cup of currant jelly and the same of Port wine, give a boil np 
and serve in a sauce-boat. Any other wild ducks are cooked in 
the same manner. Prepare and season a wild turkey in the 
same way, excepting that you make a gravy of the giblets as in 
roast chickens, and leave out the wine and jelly. 

* Wild Bucks Stewed. 

Draw and singe them and wash very clean, and divide them 
as you would chicken for a fricassee, season each piece with 
pepper and salt and dust with flour; melt in a frying-pan 
a quarter of a pound of butter; when hot, lay in the pieces of 
duck, fry a nice brown \ put the giblets in with the ducks, then 
cover with hot water and stew until tender, letting the water 
oook almost dry at the last; add half a teacup of currant jelly, 
the same of Port wine ; boil three minutes, and serve with the 
gravy over them ; thicken with a teaspoon of browned flour. 

^ Haunch of Venison Boasted. 

Wash and wipe the meat with a dry cloth, make a thick paste 
of flour and water, butter a large sheet of paper and cover the 
venison with it ; roll out the paste three-quarters of an inch 
thick, lay this over the fat side, cover it with three or four sheets 
of thick white paper and tie it securely with wrapping-cord ; 
baste well all the time it is roasting to prevent the paper and 
string from burning. A haunch of twelve pounds will require 
three hours to roast, a larger one in proportion ; half an hour 
before it is done, take it from the oven, cut the strings, take off 
the paste and paper, dredge it with flour and season with pepper 
and salt ; put it back in the oven, baste it with butter and roast 
for half an hour longer, or until it is of a fine brown, basting it 
frequently; when the venison is done, thicken the gravy with a 
leaspoonful only of browned flour, aid a glass of Port wine and 



88 COOKERY FROM RXriffSXENCE. 

% tablespoonfiil of camnt jelly, simmer until the jelly u diB* 
Bolyed, pour over the meat and serve. A saddle of venison is 
eooked precisely the same way. 

* Tenison Steaks. 

To broil them, oat them half an inch thick, broU over a iNrighi 
fire ; when done, season with oayenne pepper and salt ; melt 
over the fire in a small stew-pan a tablespoonfal of currant jelly 
and a piece of butter the siie of an egg, pour over the steaks 
and serve. If you wish to cook them in the chafing-dish, cut 
half the thickness, lay them in the dish, season with pepper and 
salt^ add butter and currant jelly, and simmer a few minutes. 

Heck and Shoulder of Venison. 
Season and roast the same as mutton, and serve with currant 
jelly separate. 

* Venison Pasty. 

Take the meat from a breast or shoulder of venison, cut it 
into pieces about two inches square ; crack the bones and put 
them with all the trimmings of the meat in a stew-pan with 
pepper and salt, and stew them for two hours ; strain them out 
and put the meat you intend for the pie into this broth, add to 
it three gills of Port wine, two onions cut in slices, three blades 
of mace, a dozen blades of allspice and a quarter of a pound of 
butter ; let the meat^itew in this until half done ; take out the 
meat and put it in a deep dish, pour over enough of the gravy 
to cover it, with a teaspoonAil of flour stirred into a paste with a 
little of the broth ; cover with half puff paste, ornament the top, 
and bake it nearly two hours in a slow oven. Before you send 
it to table, add the juice of a lemon to the remainder of the 
gravy and half a g^ of Port wine ; give it a boil up and pour 
it through a smidl opening in the crust. 

* Quails or Partridges. 
Singe, draw and wash them ; truss the legs and wings to the 
body, cover the breast with a slice of ht bacon, lay them in s 



POULTRY AND OAME. 89 

PAD, With Tery little water round them, season with a little pep- 
per and dust lightly with flour, baste them frequently with the 
drippings, and roast them for fifteen or twenty minutes. Sim- 
mer the giblets for an hour or more ; when the birds are dished, 
torn the giblets into the pan } they should have yery little broth 
OB ihem ; dust in a little flour, add a glass of Port wine, boil up 
onoei pour oyer the birds and serve. 

♦ Frogs. 

Only the hind-quarters of frogs are cooked ; wash and wipe 
them, flour them and fry a light brown in butter ; or put them 
in a stew-pan with butter, a sprinkling of flour, and pepper and 
salt ; shake them about over the fire for a moment, then add a 
very little water, simmer until tender and almost dry, then add 
a ooffeeoup of oream, butter the size of an egg, a little flour and 
chopped parsley, give a boil up and serve. 

Canvas-back Ducks. 

After being well washed, roast them twenty minutes, servo 
them whole, carve them at the table, lay them in a chafing-dishi 
with cayenne pepper, salt, a large piece of butter, half a tuni« 
bier of currant-jelly, and as much Madeira wine^ simmer 
few minutes and serve. 



SHELL VISn. 



* Stewed Oysters. 

Drain tlie oystexs in a oullender, put tlie jaioe o^er Am ire 
in a poroelain-lined kettle, with a little salt, let it simmer until 
the seum rises, then strain the juice through a clean elotfa, re- 
turn it to the kettle, and for a hundred oysters, add three blades 
of mace, half a saltspoon of black pepper, a dozen whole all- 
spice, and a pint of rich new milk ; bring to a boil, then stir in 
the oysters with six ounces of butter rubbed to a paste with a 
heaping tablespoonful of flour, simmer five or six minutes, or 
untU the beard of the oyster separates into leaves, and serre. 

* Broiled Oysters. 

For broiling, you must have fine large oysters; drain them in 
a cullender, and spread them between two clean soft towels, let 
them lie for ten or fifteen minutes ; butter the bars of the broiler 
to prevent the oj^ters from sticking ; lay the oysters oloSe to- 
gether, as many as you can get on the broiler, and put them 
over a bright fire. When they commence to brown, turn the 
other side of the gridiron down, have ready a deep tin dish or 
pan, very hot, with a quarter of a pound of butter, and as much 
black pepper and salt as will season the oysters to your taste ; 
turn them into it, stir them well through the butter, and serve 
on a hot dish. If you have more oysters than your broiler will 
hold keep the first covered closely and set the pan in the oven, 
whilst you proceed with the rest. Oysters can only be broiled 
on the double wire gridirons which come for the purpose. 

(91) 



92 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

* Panned Oysten. 

Drain che juice from a hundred oysters, and lay ihem between 
Uie folds of a soft olean oloth or towel until they are dry ; melt 
in a firying-pan a quarter of a pound of butter. When quite 
hoty put in the oysters, add pepper and salt, and stir them over 
a good fire until they show their leaves, then pour in a hot dishi 
ooyer and serve. 

* Fried Oysters. 

For frying, as for broiling, you require fine large oysters ; 
drain them, and dry them between soft towels ; for one hundred 
oysters, put in a large bowl or basin the yolks of six eggs beaten 
slightly ; put the oysters all in at onoe, and stir them round 
Until every oyster is coated with egg; then take each one out 
separately, and roll in very fine bread crumbs or cracker dust, 
which has been seasoned with pepper and salt ; melt in a frying- 
pan equal quantities of butter and lard, sufficient to cover the 
oysters completely. When boiling hot^ lay in the oysters, and 
&y a light brown as quickly as possible. Oysters are hard and 
tough when cooked too long. Serve as dry as possible on a hot 
dish. Wipe the oysters perfectly dry before putting them in 

the e^s. 

* Scalloped Oysters. 

Have ready bread crumbs not very finely grated, butter a 
pudding-dish, and put in it a layer of the crumbs ; on these 
put a layer of oysters and another layer of crumbs, season with 
pepper and salt, and sprinkle thickly with pieces of butter, then 
another layer of oysters and crumbs, seasoned and buttered as 
before, and so on until the dish is filled ) place a layer of crumbs 
over the top well seasoned, cover with little pieces of butter, 
put them in a quick oven and bake them slowly for an hour and 
a half; cover them with paper when brown enough. 

Another Way. 

Proceed with the oysters as above, but instead of crumbs use 
small squares of bread, cut into dice, with plenty of butter and 
seasoning, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. 



SHELL FISH. M 

Scalloped Oysters, No. S 

Drain the oysters, and put them in a stew- pan with a teaonp 
of rioh cream, and half the quantity of their own liquor, a piece 
of butter the sise of an egg, with a teaspoonful of corn starch 
mixed in it, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, pepper and salt 
to your taste, and two beaten eggs ; mix all together, and set 
over the fire, simmer for one minute \ butter a scallop-shell ox 
deep dish, sprinkle plentiftdly with bread crumbs, pour in the 
oysters, cover the top thickly with bread crumbs, season with 
pepper and salt, scatter pieces of butter over the top, and bake 
half an hour. This is for one hundred oysters. 

* Oyster Patties. 

Boll out puff paste a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into 
squares, cover eight or ten patty-pans, put on each a piece of 
bread as large round as a walnut, and an inch in thickness ; roll 
out another layer of paste of the same thickness, cut it as above, 
wet the edge of the bottom crust, lay on the top, trim them 
round the edge, notch them with the back of the knife half an 
inch apart, and bake them in a hot oven fifteen minutes. When 
they are done, cut a round piece out of the top crust, leaving the 
edge entire ; take out the bread and fill the insides with oysters 
prepared as follows : Drain all the juice from them, chop a 
doien of them quite fine, and put them with the whole oysters 
into a stew-pan, and for fifty oysters, add two-thirds of a pint of 
rich milk, a little white pepper and salt, a blade of mace, and 
two ounces of butter^ with a half teaspoon of corn starch mixed 
into a paste in it ; stir all together, and add the yolks of two 
and the white of one egg beaten a little. When thoroughly 
mixed, set over the fire and simmer two or three minutes, until 
the beard of the oysters separates ; then take them off and fill 
the patties and serve. If your patty-pans are small, cut the 
oysters each in two or three pieces before you add them to the 
ehopped oysters; stir them all the time they are over the fire. 



94 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

* Oyster Fie, Ho. L 

Make a crust of half puff paste, line a deep dish with it, seenr 
ing it firmly on the rim of the dish ; prick it with a fork, be- 
ing careful not to let the fork go quite through the crust ; bake 
it in a quick oTcn ; for the cover, roll into the remainder of the 
orust two ounces more butter, roll it twice, cut it out the shape 
of your dish, lay it in a pan, ornament it with leaves of the 
paste, and bake it a light brown. Strain off all the juice from 
seventy-five oysters, put them in a stew-pan with a pint of milk, 
a dozen whole allspice, the same of whole black pepper, and a 
blade of mace ; add a little salt, stir in a quarter of a pound of 
butter, mis in cold milk two even teaspoons of com starch, and 
stir it in the oysters } take out a cup Ml of the juice after it is 
all well mixed, and stir it slowly into three beaten eggs ; then add 
them to the oysters, give a boil up, pour them into the orust, 
put on the cover, and serve. 

* Oyster Pie, No. 2. 

For seventy-five large oysters, boil four eggs twenty minutes, 
lay them in cold water for ten minutes, break off the shells, and 
chop them finely; put the oysters with their juice over the fire 
in a porcelain-lined kettle, add to them pepper and salt, a very 
little grated nutmeg, a piece of onion half as large as a shellbark 
chopped very fine, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, two table- 
spoonsful of rolled cracker or cracker dust, the hard-boiled eggs, 
and a quarter of a pound of butter with a tablespoonful of flour, 
or two teaspoonsful of corn starch mixed into a paste with it ; 
stir all together over the fire until the butter is melted through 
the oysters, then set them off, and let them cool whilst you pre- 
pare the crust, which should be half puff paste ; line a deep dish 
with the paste, pour in the oysters ; roll the paste for the cover with 
a little more butter, a piece the siie of an egg, give it two rolls, 
using as little flour as possible, cover your pie (having first out 
several little incisions in the cover), and bake in a quick oven 
a little more than half an hour. When brown on the top, oovei 
with thick paper to prevent the crust from burning. 



SHELL FISH. 06 

* BoMted Oyi tars. 

Wash ihem very clean, and lay them in their shelb on the 
top of the stove or range with a hot fire under them. When 
the shells open, they are done; take them out with a sharp 
knife, and toss them in a chafing-dish, with pepper, salt and 
plenty of butter ; cover closely and give a boil up on the table ; 
or if you do not use a chafing-dish, open them in a tin dish with 
butter, pepper and salt in it, and give a heat up on the top of 
the range, put them in a covered dish and serve. 

* Pickled Oysters. 

J>rain the oysters in a cullender, put the juice over the fire in 
a porcelain-lined kettle, and for one hundred oysters, add four 
blades of mace, a dozen whole cloves, a teaspoon^l of whole 
allspice, salt and white pepper to your taste, and as much vinegar 
as you have juice ; throw the oysters into a large pan of very 
cold water, stir about for a minute, drain again in the cullender. 
When done dripping, pour them into the kettle, and simmer 
until they show their leaves; pour out, and if you wish to keep 
them several days, put them in glass air*tight jars. 

* Another Wa;. 

Drain the oysters, and put the juice over the fire in a poroa- 
lain-lined kettle with a few blades of m&ce, white pepper and 
salt. When the liquor boils, put in as many oysters as will cook 
nicely. When they show their leaves, take them out with a per- 
forated (ddmmer, and throw them in a pan of ice water; put in 
more oysters to cook, and proceed as before, until ail are done. 
Take the oysters out of the ice water in one minute after you 
put them in, drain them, and put them in a tureen or large cov- 
ered dirii, strain the juice through a fine muslin cloth over the 
oysters, add vinegar to your taste, a little more salt, a sprinkle 
of cayenne pepper, and a slice or two of lemon. The lemon is 
to be added when the oysters are perfectly cold. 



M COOKEh Y FROM EXPERIENCE. 

* Devilled Orabe. 

Boil the erabfl about ten or fifteen minutes. When edd, ex 
tract the meat, out it in small pieceSi season with cayenne peppei 
and salt, moisten with a little cream, butter the upper shells of 
the crabs, fill with the meat, cover the tops thickly with bread 
crumbs, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them, and lay on 
the top of each one a piece of butter nearly as large as a walnut, 
ind brown them in a hot oven. They will take about fifteen 
minutes. 

* Lobster Patties. 

Boll out puff paste crust a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into 
squares as many as you have patty pans, cover them with it, lay 
in each a piece of bread the sice of a walnut, and about an inch 
in thickness, cover them with crust the same thickness, wet the 
edge of the bottom crust before you put the cover on, and press 
lightly on it, notch them round with the back of a knife, and 
bake about fifteen minutes in a hot oven. When done, out a 
round piece out of the top crust, take out the bread and put in 
the lobster prepared as follows : Take out the meat from a cold- 
boiled lobster, cut it in pieces, and put it in a stew-pan with 
some of the green fat from the inside of the lobster, a quarter 
of a pound of butter, for one large lobster, a gill of cream, the 
same of veal or chicken broth, or water if you have neither ; 
a little cayenne pepper, salt, a tablespoonful of flour, and a blade 
of mace ; stew it five minutes, and fill the patties. 

Lobster Scallop. 

Cut in small pieces the meat of boiled lobster, put it in a stew- 
pan with butter the size of an egg for one large lobster, a heap 
tng teaspoonful of flour, and a little salt and pepper; mix well 
together over the fire until the butter is melted, then add a 
ooffeeoup of cream, with the yolk of an egg beaten in it, and give 
one boil up ; butter a scallop-shell or deep dish, sprinkle with 
finely-grated breAd crumbs, pour in ike lobster, spread bread 



SHELL FISH. 97 

oriimbs orer tlie top, season with pepper and salt, and strew ovef 
a few little pieees of butter, and bake twenty minutes or half ao 
hour in a quick oven. 

01am Chowder. 
Gut three-quarters of a pound of pickled pork into thin slices 
and fsj them rather crisp ; drain the liquor from about one hun» 
dred and fifty little soft-shelled clams, which have been opened 
raw, place a couple of slices of the pork in the bottom of a pot, 
lay on them a layer of the clams, on these put a couple of slices 
of onion, season with pepper, and scatter lumps of butter over 
the top, on this put a layer of water crackers which have been 
partially soaked, then a couple more slices of the pork, a layer 
of clams, two more slices of onion, pepper, plenty of butter, 
another layer of crackers, and so on until all are in ; cover the 
top with crackers, scatter lumps of butter over them and a very 
little salt and pepper ; mix two tablespoonsM of flour to a smooth 
paste with a little cold water, stir it in the dam-juice, add as 
much water as you have juice, pour this over the top of the 
chowder, cover closely, set it in a hot oven and bake an hour 

* Devilled Lobster. 
Take the meat from a cold, boiled lobster, cut it in small 
pieces, add the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, a 
little mustard, salt, and cayenne pepper; butter a scallop-dish, 
put in the lobster, cover the top with finely-grated bread crumbS| 
moisten vrith two tablespoons of cream, cover thickly with little 
pieces of butter, and bake half an hour in a quick oven. 

Soft Shell Crabs. 
Take out the sand-bags, trim the spongy parts from the sides 
and legs, melt in a stew-pan sufficient butter and lard mixed to 
float them, when boiling hot drop in the crabs and fry a light 
orown, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them and serve. 

* Stewed Clanu. 
For a hundred little sand clams or soft-shelled elams ; open 
them raw the same as an oyster, or what is better procure them 

7 



W CO OKER T FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

optned, put them in a etdlender to drain, boil a pint of nob 
new milk, rub a quarter of a pound of butter to a paste with a 
heaping tablespoon of flour, stir it in the boiling milk, add the 
juioe of the olams, pepper and salt to your taste, and a blade 
of maoe, when boiling hot, stir in the clams, oook five minotea 

and serve. 

* Scalloped Clams. 

Wash the clams very clean, put them in a dripping-pan and 
set them in a hot oven, when the shells open, take them oat, 
save the liquor which has run from them, take the clams out 
of the shells, and chop them very small in a wooden bowl, take 
half a teacup of the juice, and the same quantity of cream or 
rich milk, beat up the yolks of two eggs and mix with the cream 
and juice, add a teaspoonfnl of mixed mustard, and a little 
black pepper ; the clams need no salt ; mix this well through the 
chopped clams, butter a scallop-shell or deep dish, scatter bread 
crumbs over the bottom, pour in the clams, cover the top thickly 
with bread crumbs at least half an inch deep, put pieces 
of butter thickly over the top, a little pepper and salt, and 
bake in a hot oven nearly three quarters of an hour. This sea- 
soning is for fifty large clams. 

Clam Fritters. 
Make a batter with three eggs, a pint of milk, and five heap- 
ing tablespoonsful of flour; beat the eggs, add the flour gradu- 
ally with the milk, beat until perfectly smooth : chop twenty-five 
olams, drain the juice off, and stir them in, fry in boiling lard| 
drop a spoimful at a time, and turn when brown. 

* Scallopa. 
Dip them in beaten yolks of egg, roll them in oraeker dust 
which you have seasoned with pepper and salt, and fry them in 
boiling lard, suflicient to cover them ; when brown they are done. 

* Stewed Lobster. 

Out Ike meat cf boiled lobster in small pieoea, bvt do Mi ih(^ 
ill pat it in a stew-pan with (if on? lobster) three nimoai ef 



SHELL FISH. 9U 

butter, a B&.t8poon of cayenne pepper, two blades of maoe, a 
little salt, and a couple of tablespoonsfhl of boiling water, stew 
about ten minutes very gently, and serve* 

* To Dress Terrapins, Vo. 1. 

Have ready a pot of boiling water ; drop the terrapins in the 
water alive, and if they are large, boil them an hour and a half, 
or two hours, or until you can pull the skin from the legs ; if 
small, they will not take so long : when they are cold, take off 
the shells, pull out the claws, open the body, and take out very 
oarefuUy the sand-bag and gall, without breaking the latter ; 
cut off the heads, the remainder of the terrapin with the intes- 
tines are to be used, cut all into small pieces, and put it in a 
stew-pan, and for three large terrapins, allow three quarters of a 
pound of fresh butter, half a coffeecup of rich cream, with the 
yolks of two eggs beaten in it, half a saltspoon of cayenne pep- 
per, a saltspoonful of salt, a little black pepper, two blades of 
mace, and a tableepoonful of flour rubbed in the butter, simmer 
ten minutes, add a tumbler and a half of good Madeira or Sherry 
wine, and serre. 

* Terrapin, Vo. 2. 

Boil and prepare the terrapins as in No. 1, mash very smooth 
the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs for each large terrapin, with 
a quarter of a pound of butter ; stir in the liquor that ran from 
the terrapin when you cut it up, add salt and cayenne pepper to 
your taste, and simmer a few minutes until the meat is hot aU 
through ; add a glass of wine and serve. 

For twelve small terrapins, one and a half pounds of butter, 
the yolks of eight hard-boiled eggs, half a teaspoonful of cayenn* 
pepper, a teaspoon or more of salt, and a tumbler of wine. 

* Beef Terrapin. 

Procure a shin of beef, sawed through the bone in three 
places, making four pieces of it ; put it in a vessel over the fire, 
cover it with boiling water, and throw in a tablespoonful of salt ; 
keep a kettle }f boiling water on the range or stove, to replenish 



100 COOKEBT FROM EXPERIENCE. 

it as it oooks away, as the meat must be kept covered with watei 
all the time it is cooking ; boil nntil perfectly tender, bat not 
broken, which will take three or four hours, as it must not boil 
hard, but cook very gently. When the meat is done, take it out 
and set it aside to cool ; the broth may be used for soup. When 
the meat is cold, cut it in dice about half an inch square, and 
season it with salt, cayenne pepper, three blades of mace and a 
little black pepper ; melt over the fire a quarter of a pound of 
butter ; when hot, put the meat in it, cook a few minutes, until 
it is beginning to brown ; add a cup of cream, with a teaspoon 
heaping ftiU of flour mixed smoothly in it ; give it one boil up, 
stir in a glass of Sherry or Madeira wine, remove it from the 
fire and serve. This is an excellent dish and a cheap one. 

* Calf's Head Terrapin. 

Cleanse and boil the head and brains, as for scallop ; remove 
all the bones from the meat and set aside until perfectly cold ; 
then cut it into small pieces, spread it on a dish with the brains, 
and season highly with cayenne and black pepper and salt ; add 
two blades of mace ; boil four eggs twenty minutes, lay them in 
ice-cold water for ten minutes, take off the shells and chop them 
up, add them to the meat ; put all in a large stew-pan or porce- 
lain-lined kettle ; add a teacup of the broth the head was boiled 
in, a large coffeecup of cream, half a pound of butter, with two 
tablespoonsful of browned flour rubbed in it, and simmer until 
thoroughly hot all through ] take from the fire and stir in a tea- 
cup of good cooking wine, and serve in a covered dish or oyster* 

tureen. 

* Chicken Terrapin. 

Boil a chicken with the giblets, which will take rather longer 
than the fowl ; when thoroughly tender, set aside on a dish until 
entirely cold ; then cut the fowl and giblets into small pieces, half 
an inch square, put all into a stew-pan, with cayenne pepper and 
salt, two blades of mace, three hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, a 
teacup of the broth the chicken was boiled in, a coffeecup of 
rich cream, and a quarter of a nound of butter with a heaping 



SHE.X FISH. 101 

tablespoonfol of fioox mixed in it ; set on the range, simmer 
for about ten minntes, or until the meat is thoroughly hot ; then 
add a teaoup of Madeira or Sherry wine and serve. This quan- 
tity is enough for six or eight persons. 

Meek Terrapin of Calf *s Liver. 

Wash the liver before you cut it ; then slice it half an inch in 
thickness ; fry a nice brown, cut in small pieces, and to half a 
oalf 's liver add a piece of butter the size of an egg, a dessert- 
spoonfhl of browned flour, a couple of blades of mace, a te»- 
spoonful of mixed or French mustard, a little cayenne peppcTi 
and two hard-boiled eggs chopped ; stir all well together^ and 
add a oup of cream or water ; stew slowly for five minutes, add 
a glass of wine and serve. 



oALADS 



* Lobster Salad. 

Be very sure that lobsters are alive wben you purohase 
them ; have ready a pot of boiling water, with a handfol of salt 
in it ; drop them in it, and if they are large boil them steadily 
for half an hour ; if smaller, twenty minutes. When they are 
oold and you are ready to dress them^ break them in half across 
the middle of the body, twist off the olaws, crack them and take 
out the meat ; then split the body and tail open, take out all the 
meat from them *, put all the green fat on a plate by itself; out 
the meat into small pieces, but do not chop it ; put the yolks o 
three eggs into a large bowl, stir them round with a wooden or 
silver spoon, and with your left hand hold the bottle of oil, and 
drop in slowly and steadily, stirring all the time with your right 
hand until you have used a flask of oil (this is enough for two 
or three lobsters), when the dressing will be stiff enough to bear 
the spoon ; then dust in a very little cayenne pepper, the same 
of black, two or three teaspoonsful of mixed mustard, according 
to your taste, and two tablespoonsful of sharp vinegar ; last stir 
in the salt, a little at a time, still stirring hai'd ; then add the 
green fat you have reserved ; if there is a great deal of it, put 
in only part, about two tablespoonsful, stir it in well ; take only 
the bleached leaves out of two or three heads of salad, which 
have been lying in cold water for several hours ; wipe each leaf 
dry, lay them on a dish, put the lobster on them, and pour the 
dressing over and serve. Do not mix it. 

* Dressed Celery. 
Take only the white parts of the celery, out it in half-inch 
pieces, and lot it lie in cold water until near dinner-time ; have 
ready prepared a dressing as for lobster salad * this may be made 

aoa) 



104 CO OKER T FROM EZPERIENCE. 

early in the morning and kept in a eool, dry plaee ; drain t&e 
eelery^ put it between two towels, rub it dry^ put it in a salsd- 
bowl and poor tbe dressing over it, but do not stir it — that is 
done at the table. Serve with roast poultry or beef. The y^lk 
of one egg, and salad-oil in proportion, is sufficient for a laige 
dish of celery. 

* Chicken Salad. 
Boil the chickens, let them cool, take all the meat from the 
bones, excepting the lower joint of the leg, which is almost all 
gristle ; leave out all the skin, cut the meat into pieces half the 
siie of a nutmeg, but do not chop it; cover closely and set 
away until you are ready to use it ; cut in half-inch lengths the 
inside white part only of celery until you have as much in bulk 
as you have of the chicken ; lay it in a pan of cold water until 
a few minutes before you are ready to mix all together; then 
take it out and drain it, and dry it by spreading it on thick 
towels; when perfectly dry, mix it through the chicken in a 
pan large enough to hold all ; put the dressing on the top, and 
mix thoroughly with a long-handled wooden spoon; for the 
dressing allow five hard-boiled and two raw eggs to every 
chicken, and use the yolks only; put the yolks of the hard- 
boiled eggs into a large basin, mash them fine with a potato^ 
masher, if you are going to make a large quantity of dressing ; 
if only for one chicken, you may mash them on a plate with a 
broad-bladed knife ; stir in them as much sweet oil as will make 
a smooth paste ; in another basin stir the raw yolks with a spoon, 
dropping in sweet oil very slowly and stirring all the time until 
you have used, together with what you stirred in the hard-boiled 
eggs, a small flask to every chicken ; when you have all the oil 
in, the mixture will be stiff enough for the spoon to stand up- 
right in it, if you have gone by the directions ; now mix the 
cooked egg into this, stir it well together, add mixed mustard 
to your taste, a little cayenne and black pepper, and a few table- 
spoons of sharp vinegar, but not enough to make a decidedly 
sour taste ; last add salt to your taste ; set it away in a cool, dry 
place, until you are ready to mix together fo' the table. This 



SALADS. 105 

dreaslng cannot be made with anything but the best sweet oil, 
and unless yon have sooh, never attempt it. 

The bones and skin of the chickens may be put back in the 
broth they were boiled in, and by simmering a couple of hours, 
you have a good stock for soup. The above dressing is propoi- 
tioned to chickens weighing about five pounds each; to this 
weight allow one heaping tablespoonftil of dry mustard, mixed 
to a smooth paste with sharp vinegar for two chickens. 

* Tomato Sakd. 
Take fine ripe tomatoes, peel them without scalding, as that 
spoils them for salad; slice them evenly not quite half an inch 
in thickness, and as you out them, replace the slices to look like 
whole tomatoes ; lay them on a dish covered with broken ice, 
until you have all done and are ready to serve them; then 
arrange them neatly side by side on a shallow dish, and garnish 
them with red and yellow nasturtium blossoms ; make a dressing 
as for lobster salad and serve it separately in a little ornamental 
dish with cover. This is a dish that tastes as good as it looks, 
and that is saying a great deal. Baw tomatoes may also be 
slioed and put on the table plainly, to be eaten with pepper and 
vinegar. 

* Lettuce or Head Salad. 

Lay the salad in cold water for several hours, then wipe it 
quite dry on a clean towel ; make a dressing as for lobster salad, 
put the salad in the dish or bowl, pour the dressing on it and 
serve without stirring it together — ^this is done at the table. The 
yolk of one egg and oil in proportion is sufficient ftr a large 
head of salad. 

* Oueumber Salad. 

Pare, slice very thin and lay them in ice-water for twenty 
minutes, take them from the water with a perforated skimmer, 
put them in a glass or China dish with a few thin slices of 
onion ; season with pepper and salt, pour vinegar over them and 
serve quickly; they beoome tough and unwholesome by stand- 
iBg in the vinegar. 



106 COCKER T FROM EXPERIENCE. 

* Potato Salad. 

Gut oold boiled potatoes into dice ; to six potatoes add one 
root* of celery out into very small pieces \ make a dressing as foi 
lettuooy with the yolk of one egg, oil in proportion and pepper 
and salt to your taste ; stir tka celery and ootato together, iMiur 
the dressing oyer and serra. 



|8»|s 

!>-^!§ 

lirl 

« -•.. S 

fllil 
a 3 ^ I <= 

lUsl 



o-a 5 " t 

lllll 

15 III 
illl 



CROQUETTES, EGGS, OMELETTES, &c. 



CMoken Croqnettei . 
Chop very fine the meat ftom two fine large boiled chiekens ; 
season with pepper and salt, a piece of onion the siie of a nutmeg 
ohopped very fine, a tablespoonfal of chopped parsley, and half 
a saltspoonfnl of grated nutmeg ; melt in a stew-pan half a 
pound of butter, and stir in flour to make a stiff batter ; in this 
stir a pint of the broth the ohiokens were boiled in, and a gill 
of cream, ^ve a boil up, add the chicken, stir it well through, 
and spread out on a dish to cool ; form the croquettes in a wine- 
glass or croquette mould, dip them in beaten yolk of egg, roll in 
cracker dust, or very fine bread crumbs which have been grated 
and sifted, and boil in lard. 



Chicken Croquettes, Ho. 2. 
' Boil a pair of chickens, when cold chop very fine, season with 

\ salt, pepper and a little grated nutmeg, and a small piece of 

I onion chopped very fine ; put into a sauce-pan a pint and a half 

I of new milk, or cream, when hot stir in it a quarter of a pound 

of butter, and two tablespoons of flour mixed with a little cold 
i milk, boil until thick, then put in the chicken, stir it well in, 

I and set it away to cool. Mould and boil in lard. The brains 

% &om a calf s head boiled and ohopped in the chicken is an im- 

,^ provement to this recipe. Five pounds and a half of chicken 

f make two dozen croquettes. 

* Chicken and Sweetbread Croquettes. 
Ohop very fine the meat from one large chicken, parboil and 
chop four sweetbreads ; mix the chicken and sweetbreads well 

(107) 



108 CO OKEB Y FB OM EXPERIENCE. 

tiddler, season with pepper and salt, a tablespoonfol of chopped 
parsley, and a piece of onion the mze of a shellbark also oho|^ 
ped very fine^ and half a saltspoon of grated nutmeg ; melt in a 
stew-pan six ounces of butter, and stir in flour until a sti£F paste; 
thin this with half a pint of rich broth made firom the broth 
the chicken was boiled in reduced until very rich, and four 
tablespoons of cream ; give all a boil up, stir in the chicken and 
sweetbreads, pour on a dish to cool; when stiff, mould in a wine- 
glass or croquette mould, and dip them in beaten yolk of egg, roll 
them in cracker dust or very fine bread crumbs, and fry in boil- 
ing lard. 

A Plainer Way. 
Mince very fine the meat of one chicken, or two pounds of 
oold veal and as much cold boiled ham, season to taste with 
parsley chopped, and pepper and salt; boil a pint of milk, stir 
in butter the size of an egg and as much flour as will make a 
stiff batter, stir in the meat, give a boil up, spread out to cool ; 
mould the couquets, dip them in beaten polk of egg, roll them 
in cracker dust, and fry in boiling lard. 

* Professor Blot's Croquettes. 

TOB TWELVE OBOQUETTES. 

Half a pound of oold chicken chopped very fine, one smaU 
onion also chopped very fine, and fried in a tablespoonfrd of 
butter, just before finished one tablespoon of flour stirred in, 
then add a gill and a half of broth, a little salt and pepper, five 
small mushrooms chopped fine ; or a tablespoonful of boiled rioci 
a little nutmeg, boil up once and just before taking from the 
fire, stir in the yolks of two eggs, stir together very quickly and 
turn out on a dish to cool ; shape and dip in beaten yolk of 
egg, roC in fine crumbs or cracker dust, and boil in lard like 
doughnuts. 

* Another Way. 

Mince the remains of cold roast or boiled chicken or turkey 
very fine, season with salt, pepper, nutmeg and a small onior 



OBOqVETTES, OMELETTES, dtc 109 

chopped fine, and a little chopped parsley ; melt in a stew-pan a 
heaping tablespoon of batter, stir in it two tablespoons of flonr, 
and a small teacup of cream, give a boil up, stir in the meat, 
torn oat to cool, shape, dip in beaten yolk of egg, roll in cracker 
dast, boil in hot lard. 

Oyster Croqaettet. 

Pat fifty large oysters in their jaice over the fire, simmer them 
aboat five minates, or antil they are firm and show their leaves, 
drain them from their jaice, and set them aside antil cold ; thea 
chop them qaite fine (after having dried them on a clean towel), 
season them with pepper and salt, a little grated nutmeg (about 
half a small saltspoonful), add a piece of onion half the sise of 
a nutmeg, chopped very fine, a tablespoonftil of chopped parsley, 
and four hard-boiled eggs chopped very fine \ mix all well to- 
gether ; melt in a sauce-pan five ounces of butter, stir in it floui 
until it is a thick paste, add to it half a teacup of the oyster- 
juice aft^r it has been strained, and half the quantity of rich 
cream ; stir over the fire until as thick as mtwA, then add the 
oysters^ stir a mintite over the fire, and pour out on a dish to 
oooL When entirely cold, take a tablespoonful to each croquette, 
mould them in cracker dust seasoned with peppor and salt, and 
lay them carefully from the spoon into boiling lard to fioat and 
cover them ; be sure the lard is boiling when you put them in. 
When the under side is brown, roll them over carefully. When 
ione, take them out with a perforated skimmer, and drain them 
on a sieve or napkin for a moment ; put but a few at a time in 
the pan, and keep them hot in the oven until all are done ; then 
serve quickly. To fifty oysters you may add two sweetbreads 
parboiled and chopped fine. 

* Oroquettei of Cold YeaL 

To two cups of cold veal minced very fine, add a cup of hot 
boiled rice, mix together with a fork ; beat the yolks only of two 
eggs, stir in two tablespoons of soft (not melted) butter to a 
smooth paste ; then add a teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of 



110 COOKERY FROM EJTPERIENCB. 

WOTcestershire sauoe, and the whites of the eggs beaten to i 
stiff froth. When all are well inoorporated, stir in the meat 
and rice, work ail well together and mould into croquettes ; beat 
^0 ^ggs uid pour them over the croquettes ; let them lie in it a 
ftw minutes, turning them over several times ; then roll them 
in cracker dust seasoned with pepper and salt, and boil them 
in sweet lard until a nice brown. These croquettes are im- 
proved by adding a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a piece of 
onion the sise of a pea chopped fine, and half a small saltspoon 
tf grated nutmeg. 

* Potato Croquettes. 

Boast eight fine large potatoes, scrape out the inside, press 
them closely in a pan or large bowl, cover them, and let them 
stand an hour or two ; when perfectly cold, add to them six 
ounces of butter, mash them together with a potato-masher 
until thoroughly incorporated; then add salt and pepper to 
your taste, a small onion (or a piece the size of a nutmeg) 
chopped very fine, a tablespoonfrd of chopped parsley, and half 
1 saltopoon of nutmeg ; stir all well together ; beat the yolks 
of six eggs, leaving in the white of two, and stir them in the 
potato; shape them in a wine-glass or croquette mould, roll 
ihem twice in cracker dust, and brown them in boiling lard ; 
put sufficient lard to float, and cover them in a pan over the firoi 
and have it boiling hot when you put the croquettes in. 

* Meat Balls. 

Chop cold veal, beef or mutton very fine, removing all the 
skin and gristle ; to two cups of meat add one cup of finely- 
grated and sifted bread crumbs, the yolks of two eggs beaten 
light, two tablespoonsfal of soft butter, a teaspoonful of salt, 
half an one of black pepper, a teaspoonftil of powdered sweet 
marjoram, a tablespoonfol of chopped parsley ; mix all together 
lightly with a fork ; then add the whites of the eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth ; mix all well together ; flour your hands, and form 
the mixture into round balls, flatter them until they are half an 



CROQUETTES, OMELETTES, *«• 111 

imdi diiok, and brown them on both sides in boiling lard \ serre 
on a shallow dish. 

*yeal Croquettes. 

Boil a oalf s head until you can remove the bones, whioh will 
be in a little over two hours ; tie up the brains in a clean cloth, 
and boil them with the head for half an hour ; when the head 
is done, remove all the meat from the bones, and chop it as fine 
as possible ; grate a pint of bread crumbs, stir them through 
the meat; season with salt, black and cayenne pepper, a table- 
spoon heaping full of chopped parsley, a piece of onion the size 
of a nutmeg chopped very fine, and a saltspoonful of grated 
nutmeg ; stir all well together ; mash the brains and add to the 
meat; then add three beaten eggs, and moisten with some of 
the broth the head was boiled in, until of a consistence t<9 mould 
into croquettes ; form them in a wine-glass, roll in cracker dust, 
and boil in lard until a nice brown. 

* Force-meat of Teal 

Chop as fine as possible one pound oi lean veal, eight ounces 
of beef-suet, add four ounces of very fine bread cri^mbs, and 
mix all well together ; season with half a teaspoon of salt, half 
as much black pepper as salt, aud a little grated nutmeg ; chop 
very fine a piece of onion as large as a nutmeg and a tablespoon- 
ful of parsley, stir in until well incorporated, then add three 
Deaten eggs, and mix them well in ; pound all in a mortar for ten 
minutes. You may add a saltspoonful of grated lemon-peel. 

* Force-meat of Beef. 

One pound of lean beef, the same of suet ; chop them verj 
fine and pound them in a mortar, first separately, then together ; 
add a small cup of very fine bread crumbs, half a teaspoon of 
sweet marjoram, the same of sweet basil, a little thyme, a table- 
spoonAil of chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and three beaten 
eggs ; then pound all together in a mortar antil thoroughly \nwf* 
porated. 



112 OOOKERT FROM E2CPERIENCE. 

* Codfish Omelette 

Slir«d very finely a pint-bowl of eodfish, eover with eold water, 
tad oook half an hour in a closelj-covered sauce-pan; when 
thoroughly tender^ strain the water off by pouring through a 
eullender, return the fish to the sauoe-pan, beat three eggs and 
itir them into a pint of milk, pour oyer the fish; take a pieoe 
of butter the sixe of an egg, rub in it a tablespoon heaping fUl 
of flour, stir into the fish and milk, cook gently until it thiekena, 
and serve in a oovered dbh. 

* Ham Omelettes. 

Chop very finely half a slice of ham, a bunch of parsley and a 
small onion ; beat six eggs very light, the whites and yolks 
separately ; then beat them together ; add the ham, parsley, fto. ; 
add a little pepper; have ready a small frying-pan about six 
inches in diameter, put in a piece of butter the size of a nutmeg, 
melt it ; when quite hot, oover the bottom of the pan with the 
omelette, brown it, roll it up with a knife and fork, lay it on a 
hot dish ; put another piece of butter in the pan, and proceed 
as before. This quantity makes six of these little omelettes ; 
they are very fine, and make a pretty dish, laid side by side 
across the dish you serve them on. 

* Cheese Omelette, or Welch Bare-bit 

Cut in thin slices half a pound of good rich cheese, put it in a 
pan, with two-thirds of a pint of new milk, over the fire ; beat 
four eggs quite light, but not separately; stir the milk and 
eheese occasionally, and when the cheese is entirely dissolved in 
the milk, stir in the eggs ; have ready three slices round the 
loaf of bread, toasted a nice even brown ; butter it and spread it 
very thinly with mustard mixed in cold water ; when the ome- 
lette thickens, which will be in a few minutes (you must stir 
this all the time from the very beginning), pour it over the 
toast ; add a little salt after you pour in the eggs ; serve on a 
shallow dish. 



CROQUETTES, OMELETTES, Ac 113 

* Serambled Bggs. 

Break eight or ten eggs into a large bowl; do not oeat them « 
Btir in them a little chopped parsley and some pepper and salt ; 
melt in a frying-pan a piece of butter the size of a wakrat; 
when hot, ponr in the eggs, stir them until they thicken ; serve 
in a covered dish. 

Baked Eggs. 

Helt in a small pan or tin pie-dish a piece of butter the siie 
of a walnut, open nz eggs without breaking them, and pour them 
gently on the butter; season with pepper and salt, and bake in 
a hot oven until the whites are firm and set; put a few little 
pieces of butter on top of the ^gs before putting them in the 

oven. 

* Boiled Bggs. 

If you use an c^-boiler, put the eggs in it just as breakfast 
is served, pour full of boiling water, and send to table; they 
will cook sufficiently in five or six minutes. If boiled in the 
kitchen, put them carefully with a spoon into boiling water, so 
as not to crack the i^ells, and boil them three minutes and 
serve. To poach them, drop them carefully, one at a time, into 
muffin-rings, which you have set in the boiling water ; as soon 
as the whites are set they are done. Serve on a shallow diiA. 

* Fried Eggs. 

Melt in a frying-pan a piece of butter the siie of a walnut, at 
use the &t of ham ; when hot, drop in the ^^, one at a time, 
being careful not to break the yolk ; when the white of the egg 
is set, they are done. Take them up with a buckwheat-cake 
turner, or an *' egg-slice," which comes for the purpose, and 
serve them on a warm shallow dish. 

* Omelette. 

Beat six or eight eggs very light separately ; then mix thenr 
and beat them together ; add to them pepper and salt, a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, a piece of onion chopped very fine 
8 



114 COOKEBT FROM EXPERIENCE. 

(the file of half a nutmeg), and a (eaonp of rioh milk, with a 
•mall even teaspoonfol of oom-staroh mixed in it; melt in a 
large-sixed oral or roand filing-pan a piece of batter the siie 
of a walnut, run it evenly over the bottom of the pan ; when 
hot, pour in the omelette, brown carefiilly, fold over and serve. 

* Omelette with Crumbs. 
Grate a teacup of bread crumbs very fine, pour on them a cup 
of rich cream ; beat separately and then together six eggs, sea- 
son them with pepper and salt, add a teaspoonftd of chopped 
parsley and a piece of onion the size of a large pea chopped very 
fine; melt in a large-sized round or oval frying-pan butter the 
size of a walnut ; mix the eggs, cream and crumbs together and 
pour them into the pan, being careful to spread the crumbs 
evenly over the pan; brown very carefiilly, moving the pan 
round on the stove ; and when brown and set, fold the omelette 
one half over the other, lift it out carefully and serve. This is 
a delicious omelette when made by the directions above. 

* Cora Omelette. 

Beat the whites and yolks of eight eggs, separately and then 
together; season with pepper and salt; grate the com from 
throe ears, mix with the eggs ; melt in a round pan a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, pour in the omelette, brown care- 
fully, double over and serve. Chopped oysters may be used 
instead of corn. 

* Eggf on Toast. 

Cut slices of bread half an inch thick, toast evenly on both 
sides, butter quite plentifully the side you will put the eggs on. 
Poach the eggs and lay them on the toast, sprinkle them over 
with pepper and salt ; serve quickly. You may scramble the 
eggs and pour over for variety. They are very nice prepared 
either way, for a breakfast relish. 

* Stewed Ham. 
Gut a slice of ham half an inch thick, pare off the rind and 
all the smoked parts, cut it into small pieces, pour boiling wat<v 



CROQUETTES, OMELETTES, ike. 115 

9jer it and let it stand until nearly cold ; then pour off ihe 
water and pnt it over the fire in a small stew-pan, with boUing 
water to half coyer it ; let it simmer for five minutes ; add a 
teaspoonful of flour, the same of chopped parsley and half a tea- 
cup of rich cream ; give a boil up and serve. A nice relish for 
breakfast* 

* Ham with Eggs. 

Out in slices half an inch thick, pare off the rind and ftj 
slightly in a pan ; take it from the fire, cut it in small pieceSi 
return it to the pan, and stir in it four or five eggs, until it begins 
to thicken ; then serve in a covered dish. 

Oyster Omelette. 

dhop very fine eighteen or twenty large oysters, beat six eggs 
separately very light, add together the whites and yolks and 
beat again ; mix in a little cold milk a teaspoonful of corn-starch 
and stir it in the eggs; add the chopped oyster, pepper and 
salt to your taste, and butter the sice of a large nutmeg melted 
and stirred in } melt in a frying-pan a piece of butter the siie 
of a walnut ; when boiling hot, pour in the omelette, brown 
slowly^ fold over and serve on a hot dish. 

Tomato Omelette. 

Peel and chop very fine four or five fine ripe tomatoes, season 
"them with pepper and salt, dust on them two teaspoonsful of 
flour, mix it well in them, so there are no lumps ; melt a piece 
of butter the size of a walnut and stir it through the tomatoes ; 
beat six eggs very light and add them ; melt a small piece of 
butter in a frying-pan, pour in half the omelette, brown slowly, 
fbid over, lay it on a hot dish, and proceed the same way with 
diA remauidax of the omelette 



SAUCES 



* Oyster Sauoe. 

Dnin the jmoe from twenty-five or thirty oyBters and pat it 
in a porcelain kettle, with three-qnarters of a pint of rich milk, 
or creun and milk mixed ; rub to a paste three oonces of botfcei 
and a heaping tablespponfiil of floor; stir it in the milk over 
the fire with a wooden spoon nntil it begins to thicken, then 
add the oysters, and simmer five minutes, stirring all the time * 
serve in a small oyster-tureen, with boiled turkey or chicken, 
or, as directed, with some kinds of boiled fish; add pepper 
and salt to your taste. 

* Egg Sauce. 

Melt in a sauce-pan three ounces of butter, stir in it a table- 
spoonftil of flour ; when perfectly smooth, add nearly a pint of 
milk, salt to your taste ; have ready three eggs which have been 
boiled twenty minutes, cooled and chopped; when the same 
thickens, stir in the egg, give a boil up, stirring all the time; 
serve in a gravy or sauce-boat 

* Drawn Butter. 

Melt in a sauce-pan three ounces of butter, stir in it a table- 
spoonful of flour, add half a pint of boiling water, a little salt, 
and a tablespoonfrd of chopped parsley ; stir it over the fire untU 
it thickens ; if too thick, add a little more water ; boil up and 
serve in a sauce-boat. 

(117) 



118 000KEB7 FROM EXPERIENCE. 

* Caper Sauce. 

Make the sanoe precisely as drawn butter, leaving out the 
parsley and adding capers in the place of it, and a tablespoonflil 
of the caper vinegar. Haifa teacup of capers to half a pint of 

sauce. 

* White Sauce. 

Melt in a sauce-pan three ounces of fresh butter, stir in it a 
tablespoonful of flour to a smooth paste ; add rather more than 
half a pint of milk and a saltspoonflil of salt ; stir over the fire 
until it thickens. 

Anchovy Sauce. 

Bone six anchovies, pound the flesh in a mortar until a paste ; 
melt in a sauce-pan three ounces of butter, stir in it a table- 
spoonftd of flour; when smooth, add the anchovies, a little 
cayenne pepper and a tablespoonM of tomato catsup ; mix aU 
well together, and pour over a half pint of boiling water ; boil 
two minutes, stirring all the time ; add the juice of a lemon, 
and serve with boiled or baked fish. 

* To Brown Flour. 

Put half a pound of fiour upon a clean plate or in a small pan, 
and set it in a hot oven until brown all through ; stir it very 
often ; keep it in a dredge-box purposely for it. For gravies 
and some soups 

Horse-radish Sauce. 

Two tablcspoonsful of grated horse-radish ] put it in a basin 
and add to it one teaspoonfnl of mustard, one of salt, a quarter 
of a teaspoon of pepper, one of sugar and two tablespoonsful of 
vinegar ; add a little cream or milk until a thickish paste. 

Serve with beefsteaks or cold meats. 

I 

*Hu8hroom Sauce. 

Clean and cut in small pieces one dozen mushrooms, put them 
in a sauce-pan with butter the size of an egg, cayenne pepper 
and salt, the juice of a lemon and two tablespoonsful of mush- 



SAUCES. 119 

room catsap ; stew until tender, then add half a teacnp of broth 
and a teaspoonful of flour wet in oold water ; boil up and serre 
irith beefsteak or game 

Mushroom Sauce, Vo. 2. 

Put in a sauce-pan a piece of butter the size of an egg, melt 
it and stir in it a teaspoonful of flour, mix smooth, add a teacup 
of broth, two tablespoonsful of chopped mushrooms (peel and 
wash before you chop them) ; chop very fine a small white onion, 
drop it into cold water, and drain dry; stir it in the sauoe, sim- 
mer ten minutes, then add the yolks of two beaten eggs and a 
little chopped parsley ; boil up and serve with roast lamb or 

game. 

* Horse-radish. 

Scrape the roots and grate them on a coarse grater ; put the 
grated horse-radish into a wide-mouthed bottle and coyer with 
good cider vinegar. Serve with roast beef. 

* Celery Sauce. 

Out four heads of celery into pieces half an inch long, cover 
with oold water, stew gently until tender, which will take nearly 
two hours ; when it is done, the water should be stewed away to 
a few spoonsful ; stir in this a quarter of a pound of butter, a 
heaping tablespoonful of flour and a little salt ; stir it until it 
thickens and add rich milk until you have it the right consist- 
ence; it will take rather more than half a pint. Serve with 
boiled turkey or chickens. 

« Mint Sauce. 

To three tablespoonsful of chopped leaves of brook mint aid 
three heaping tablespoons of soft sugar and a gill and a half of 
good cider vinegar; stir well together, and serve with least 

Iamb 

* Sauce or Dressing for Codfish Cakes. 

Put in a sauce-pan two teaspoonsfnl of dry mustard, one ef 
•alti one of sugar, one of flour and one of butter; mic all 



120 CO OKER T FROM SXPERIENCB. 

together and add two tableepoonsfal of vinegar and half a small 
teacap of boifing water; mix thoroughly; let it thi<^en over 
the fire, sdiring it all the time ; when thick and very smooth, 
cool it and set it away for use. It is better made the day before 
it is wanted. To be eaten with codfish cakes ; also used on cold 
meat, &c. 

* Br^wBiiig for Soaps, Graviesy Ac, Ac 

Put on a tin dish half a ponnd of good brown sugar, set it on 
a hot stove or range, stir it with a wooden spoon untQ it is quite 
black ; then take it from the fire and pour over it neaily a pint 
of boiling water ; let it stand until dissolved ; bottle it, keep it 
corked tight and it will keep for months. Use a few spoonsful 
for browning soups, gravies, ragoiits, &c. 

* Wine Sauce. 

Melt in a sauce-pan a quarter of a pound of butter, stir in it 
a heaping tablespoonful of flour * when smooth, add a large cof- 
feecup heaping full of sugar (a light brown sugar makes a richer 
sauce than white), sdr well together, then pour in half a teacup 
of boiling water, stir all the time on the fire until it boils and is 
dear; then set it aside in a vessel of boiling water until you 
are ready to use it. It is much better and clearer to be made 
an hour before it is wanted, and kept hot by setting the sauce- 
pan in a larger one of boiling water ; when ready to serve it, 
add a teacap of good cooking wine, stir it in well, pour it into a 
sauce-tureen, grate nutm^ over the top and serve. 

* Wine Banco, Ho. 2. 

Stir to a cream a quarter of a pound of butter and half a 
pound of sugar, add the beaten yolks of three eggs, fimr wine- 
glasses of wine and one of water ; mix weU together, and stir 
n^idly over a quick fire until it thi^^if • 

* A Bieh Wino Baneo, Vo. S. 

Warm but do not melt a cup of butter, stir to a cream with 
Aioe cups of pulverised sugar ; then pour from a filing kettle 



8AUCE8. 121 

A small teaonp of water ; stir it oyer the fire nntil it thiokeiu ; 
add three glasses of wine and serye. This makes a large 
quantity ; half the recipe is sufficient for five or six persons. 

* Wine Sancdy Ho. 4. 

Stir to a cream a ooffeecnp foil of sifted or pnlyeriied sngar 
and half a cap of butter; add one egg, beat it well in ; then set 
all in a pan of boiling water, stirring all the time untU melted; 
add a tumbler of wine ; pour in a sauce-boat, grate nutmeg over 
the top and senre. 

* Bgg Sauoe ftr Puddings. 

Warm a tablespoon heaping full of butter, until it is a little 
soft, but not melted; stir in this four heaping tablespoons of 
white sugar untU it is creamed ; beat very light the yolks of two 
and the whites of three eggs and stir them into the sugar and 
butter ; bring three wine-glasses of good cooking wine to a boil, 
pour it boiling hot over the other ingredients, stir all together; 
when thoroughly mixed, boil over the fire for two or three 
minutes, stirring all the time, and pour into a sauce-boat 

* Pudding Sauoe. 

Stir to a cream three ounces of butter, with a teacup of sifted 
sugar ; when very light, grate it thickly with nutmeg, and boil 
a teacup of wine and pour over boiling hot; beat until it foamS| 
and serve. 

Pudding Sauce, Ho. S. 

One teacup of sugar, the white of an ^g, a wine-glass of 
wine, the same of cold water — ^beaten to a cream. To be used 
in the place of cream. 

* Hard Sauce. 

Stir to a cream a quarter of a pound of butter and two coffee* 
eups of sifted sugar ; when perfectly light, add a glass of inne 
and beat it well in ; heap and shape it nicely on a glass dish^ 
and grate nutmeg over the top ; or you may heap it in a cone 
ind curl it over with the handle of a spoon ; begin at the bottom, 



122 COOKERY FROM EJTERj.ENOE. 

mn the spoon-liuidle in half an inch deep and torn it down- 
wards ; do this in rows all ihe way np to the top; then grate 
nntmeg over it. 

* Cnatard Sanoe. 

Sweeten a pint of milk with white sugar, beat the yolks only 
of two eggs qnite light, mix gradually with the milk ; set the 
▼essel in another of boiling water, and stir over the fire nntU it 
begins to stick to the spoon ; take it off, flavor with vanilla (if 
you use the essence, two teaspoonsful), and set it in a oool 
place for a couple of hours before dinner ; serve in a silver, glass 
or Ohina eream-pitcher. To be eaten with blancmange, boiled 
rioe or any cold dessert. 

* CurrantJelly Sauce. 

Melt in a sauce-pan over the fire a teacup^l of currant jelly, 
add to it a tablespoonftil of butter ; stir well together, pour in a 
glass of wine, give a boil up and pour over venison or mutton- 
steaks. 

* Lemon Sauce. 

Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a sauce-pan over 
the fire ; when melted, stir in a coffeecup of sugar (white) and 
half a pint of boiling water ; when the sugar is dissolved, stir 
in a teaspoonful of corn-starch mixed in a little cold water, give 
a boil up, stirring all the time, and add a fine large lemon cut 
in slices. 

* Orange Sanoe. 

Make it the same as lemon, but substituting a fine large sliced 
orange instead of the lemon. 

Cream Sauce. * 

Stir to a cream half a cup of butter and a cup of sugar ; boil 
a teacup of cream and stir it boiling hot in the sugar and butter ; 
add a glass of wine and serve. 



SAUCER 123 

Soyer'f Curry Sauea. 

'* Pat in a pan four good-sized onions sliced and two of peeled 
apples sliced thinly, with a quarter of a pound of butter, the 
same of lean ham cut fine, a blade of mace, four pepperooma, 
two sprigs of thyme and two bay-leaves ; stir them over a mo- 
derate fire until the onions become brown and tender, then add 
two tablespoonsful of curry-powder, one of vinegar, two of flouTi 
a teaspoonful of salt, one of sugar ; moisten with a quart of 
broth or water ; boil until it adheres thickly to the back of the 
spoon ; pass all through a fine sieve, boil again for a few minutes 
and pour it out. If bottled, it will keep in a cool place in win- 
ter-time for a month. Any kind of meat, poultry, fish or game 
18 excellent warmed in this sauce and served with boiled rice/' 

* Curry Powder. 

Three ounces of coriander-seed, the same of turmeriCy one 
ounce of black pepper, one of mustard, one of ginger, half an 
ounce of allspice, half an ounce of cardamom-seed and a quarter 
of an ounce of cumin-seed. Put these ingredients in a cool oven 
for several hours ; when loarm (not hot) and thoroughly dry, 
put them in a mortar, pound them fine, sift them through a 
sieve and keep in a well-stopped bottle in a oool place. Keeps 
for yeais. 

Sauce Piquante. 

fOB OOLD MIAT OR FISH. 

Pound together in a mortar an ounce of grated horse-radish, 
half an ounce of salt, a tablespoonful of mustard, a quarter of an 
ounce of chopped onion, half a drachm of celery-seed and the 
same of cayenne pepper ; add gradually a pint of vinegar, and 
let it stand for a week; then strain through a sieve and bottle 
for 



VEGETABLES. 



* White Potatoes. 

Pare them diin, wash in plenty of cold water, and pat them 
o?er the fire ia boiling water hardly to cover them, in a covered 
vessel; with a little salt ; they require firom twenty minutes to 
alf an hour ; if there is much difference in the size of the po- 
tatoes, cut the larger ones in half before you put them on to 
boil, that they may all be done at the same time ; when they are 
tender, drain off the water, cover them almost close and let them 
dry for five minutes or more. This makes them mealy and 
white. 

If you wish to boil potatoes with their skins on, wash them 
very clean and peel a strip all around the potato lengthwise, 
then put them in boiling water and proceed as above. Serve 
potatoes in a covered dish. 

* Hashed Potatoes. 

Prepare and boil the potatoes as above ; after they have dried 
for five minutes or more, remove the lid of the vessel, throw on 
the potatoes a spoonful of salt and a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut ; beat them and mash them with a potato-masher untU 
the salt and butter are incorporated; then pour over them half 
a cup or more of cream, according to the quantity of potatoes, 
and beat them well with a large fork until perfectly light and 
ereamy; keep the pot they were boiled in on one side of the 
range all the time you are preparirg them. The longer yon 
beat and mash their ib<» whiter and more light they are. 

(126) 



126 COOKERY FROM EXPERLBNCE. 

*f«w PotatoM. 

Senpe ike akiiis off with a knife, wash tliem in plenty of eold 
water and put them over tke fire in boiling water, with a Hide 
nh; trf them with a fork — thej are spoiled if eooked too mndL 
When tender, drain off the water and poor over them a while 
in e e (see Saneee). 

* Fried Fotatoei. 

Sliee raw potatoes lengihwise Teiy thin, lay them in ie&-watar 
fbr half an honr, drain and wipe them and fry in boiling laid or 
sweet drippings a light brown, take them oat very dry, s^inkle 
them with salt and pepper and serre qnickly. The potatoes ftc 
this purpose should be ent as thin almost as p^er. 

*Friad Potatoes, So. 8 (Saratofa). 

Pare and wash them rery elean and cat them down thro«|^ 
the middle lengthwise in fonr qnarters, hsve boiling lard to 
float and eorer them, brown them in it ; take out and lay them 
on a dish in the ot«i nntil all are fbushed; then sprinkle theat 
with pepper and salt and serve in a covered dish. K prefened 
smaller, cut the qnarters down again, making eight pieoes of 
each potato (lengthwise). 

* Potatoes Wanned Orer. 

Sliee eold boiled potatoes, season them with pepper and salt 
and pnt them in a frying-pan, with batter the sise of an egg; 
stir them aboat nntil thoronghly hot, dost over them a litde 
floor, and stir in them a coaple of tablespoons of milk ; giro 
iUiother stir roand for a minate or two and serve ; or yon may 
tirown them in the batter by leaving oat the floor and milk and 
keeping them covered oyer, stirring them occaflioBally. 

* Mashed Potato Warmed Orer. 

Make np the potato into little balls the size of a walnnt, flat- 
ten ihem and hj in drippings or lard a nice brown on both 



VEGETABLES. 127 

* Browned Potatoei. 

Boil and mash them as for plain mashed potatoes, heap them 

ap in a smooth oone shape, paint them over with beaten yolk of 

egg, and brown in a hot oven a few minutes before sending to 

table> 

Oerman Potatoes. 

Put a tablespoons^ of batter in a pan over the fire ; when 
hot, slioe an onion in it, brown it and cut into it six raw pota« 
toes, which have been peeled and washed ; add pepper and salt, 
ohopped parsley and a teacup of hot water; cover closely and 
simmer until tender. 

* Stewed Potatoes. 

These are used as a relish for breakfast. Cut cold boiled po- 
tatoes in dice, season with pepper and salt ; put in a stew-pan a 
tablespoon heaping full of butter, melt it and add the same of 
flour, stir until smooth, then pour in nearly a pint of new milk ; 
when it begins to thicken, stir in the potatoes, with a teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley ; simmer until the potatoes are thoroughly 
hot, and serve in a covered dish. 

Boast Potatoes. 

Pick out fine large potatoes, wash them very clean and put 
them in a hot oven in a dripping-pan, and bake them nearly or 
quite an hour ; try them— -when soft, they are done. Serve in 
an open dish. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Pare them thin, wash in plenty of cold water, and put them 
around beef or mutton about three-quarters of an hour before 
the meat is done. They will brown very nicely without turning 
or much attention. When you baste the meat, let them have 
their share. 

* Potato Snow. 

Boil the potatoes, dry them, and rub them, a few at a tune, 
Ikiough a cullender, into the dish you serve them in, letting 



128 COOKBBT FROM EXPERIENCE. 

tiliem heap up a little in the middle. Do it qviokly or they will 

get eold. 

Potato Balli. 



Boil eight potatoes ; dry them until white and mealy ; then 
mash them with a pieoe of batter the size of an egg, and when 
perfectly cold, add to them a quarter of a pound of grated ham, 
a heaping teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a piece of onion half 
the sice of a nutmeg chopped very fine, pepper and a dttle grated 
nutmeg; chop all together and mix through with your hands; 
then add the yolks of three eggs beaten, mix well, and form 
them into little balls, flatten them, dip them in beaten egg, then 
roll them in cracker dust and fry a nice brown, turning them 
when one side is brown. 

Potato Pie. 

Peel and slice the potatoes very thin, butter a deep pie-dish, 
put a layer of potatoes in the bottom, scatter oyer a very little 
chopped onion (one onion is enough for a pound of potatoes), 
season with pepper and salt and a little chopped parsley, and a 
few slices of hard-boiled egg ; then another layer of potatoes, 
onion, parsley, egg and pepper and salt, until the dish is full ; 
out two ounces of fresh butter into Uttle pieces and lay on top, 
pour over a little water, cover with a good crust and bi^e slowly 
an hour and a half. 

Potato Scallop. 

Boil the potatoes dry them well and mash them with butter, 
about half an ounce to a pound of potatoes ; add two or three 
tablespoonsful of cream ; butter some scallop-shells, patty-pans, 
teacups or saucers ; put in the potatoes, mdce them smooth on 
the top, coTcr with bread Crumbs moistened with a little melted 
butter, and brown them in a quick oven 

* Casserole of Potatoes. 

Pare thm and wash twelve very large potatoes, put them in 
boiling water, with a teaspoonful of salt ; when done, drain off 
all the water, drv them on the back of the rancre for fally ten 



YEQBTABLE8. 129 

Bunatefl, tlien throw over them a teaspoon of salt and batter the 
■iie of an egg ; when the butter is melted, beat them fine with 
a masher and stir in them half a eoffeecnp of oream ; beat it well 
in with a fork, then mash onee more with the masher ; pnt the 
potatoes on a dish (a flat one), form them ronnd and high, make 
an opening in the oentre as large as you wish to fill (holding 
about a quart), paint the potato all over inside and out with 
beaten yolk of egg, set it in a hot oven ; when a fine browUi 
take it out, fill the opening in the oentre with any ragollt, firi- 
oassee or macaroni stewed, and serve quickly.-'- C^. 

* Lyonnaise of Potatoes. 

Cut a quart of cold boiled potatoes in slices ; put in a frying 
pan two ounces of butter, in which fry an onion chopped fine 
until it is about half done, add the potatoes with two more 
ounces of butter, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, pepper and 
salt, stir and toss them gently untU a light brown color, and 
serve very hot. 

Sweet Potatoes. 

Wash them dean, boil them in their skins, put them on about 
an hour before dinner-time ; when nearly done, peel them and 
lay them side by side in a dripping-pan, and set them in the 
oven for half an hour. 

* Sweet Potatoes Browned. 

Boil them until half or a little more than half oooked, peel 
and cut them in slices half an inch thick, lengthwise of the 
potato ; put in a frying-pan a teaoup of brown sugar and a pint 
of boilmg water ; when the sugar is all dissolved, lay in the 
of potato, and brown them evenly on both sides. 



Sweet Potatoes Boasted. 

Wash dbem very elean and put them in a dripping-pan in a 
hot oven ; they require nearly or quite an hour to roast; if they 
are large, try them by pressing on them with the finger; when 
■oft) ibey are done 



130 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

* Fried Bahatj. 

Scrape, wash and grate the salsify ; add to it, for two dona 
roots, three beaten eggs, salt and pepper to jour taste, new milk 
suffioient to moisten it, a little dust of flour, and make it in 
cakes the size and shape of an oyster, and fry brown in boiling 
lard or sweet drippings. Or boil the salsify until tender, with a 
tablespoonful of vinegar in the water ; drain and mash it fine ; 
add to it two or three beaten eggs, a little rich milk, a piece of 
butter as large as a walnut mashed with it, and pepper and salt 
to your taste ; flour your hands a little, form it into cakes, and 
fry as aboye. ' 

Another Way. 

Scrape and wash it, split it in half, put it in boiling water, 
with a little salt and a tablespoonfril of vinegar; boil until 
tender, drain it, and when cold, make a batter of four table- 
spoonsfrd of flour, the yolks of three eggs and a gill of cold 
water, the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth and added 
last ; dip the salsify in the batter and fry in hot lard. 

French Way of Cooking Oreen Peas. 

For three pints of full-grown but tender green peas, cut ii 
pound of bacon into small squares, boil it in water ten minutee 
to extract some of the salt ; then pour off the water and let it 
brown slightly; wash the peas, and with your hand, whilst 
they are in the water, work into them a piece of butter the 
siie of an egg ; put them in a stew-pan with the fried bacon, a 
teacupful of cold water, three green-topped onions and a bunch 
of parsley, with a teaspoonful of brown sugar and a little black 
pepper ; simmer them gently for half an hour, or until they are 
cooked, but not broken ; add a very little water, if they should 
become too dry ; when done, stir in them a teaspoonful of flour 
mixed with a small piece of batter and two tableepoonsfnl of 
cream beaten with the yolk of an egg ; take out the onions and 
parsley, boil up and serve. 



VEOETABLS& 181 

* Oreen Peai. 

Boil them — if very young, half an hour — if full grown, aboal 
dme-qnarters ; drain them through a cullender, turli them int^ 
a Tegetable dish, with butter the sice of an egg and a little sail 
When peas are a little old, they are improved by putting a 
oouple of teaspoonsful of sugar into the water they are boiled 
in. 

* Cauliflower. * A 

Wash it yery clean and put it whole into a k^i^^ of boding 
water, with a little salt ; if young and tender, twepty minutes 
wUl cook it ; if older, it will require a tonger time ; try it with 
a fbrk through the centre of tho stalk } drain it well and servo 
with drawn butter poured over it. 

* Oftbtafo^ 

For boiling, use young, loose heads ; cut them in half, wash 
reiy dean, and boil and serve as cauliflower, with drawn butter 
poured over. 

* Com Pudding • 

G-rate the com from two dozen ftdl ears, with a coarse grater 
which comes for the purpose (or with the little patent machine 
made for the purpose and which lightens the labor), and add te 
it three eggs beaten light, a half teaspoon of salt, a teaspoonfU 
of sugar, half a cup of rich milk (if the com is old, a full cup), 
and about a teaspooni^l of flour, not more ; beat all well to- 
gether and bake — an hour and a half, if all in one — ^if divided, 
three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. Butter the dish 
well before you pour in the pudding. This is a New England 
breakfast dish. It is nice for tea or dinner. 

* Com Oysters. 

Orate the com &om a dozen fine large ears of sugar com, add 
three eggs well beaten, a teaspoonful of sugar, a little salt, a 
■nail teacup of rich milk, a piece of butter the size of a walnut 
melted and stirred in, ard flour enougti to make them stick 



132 COOKERY FROM EXPEBIENCB. 

togetlier — ^about half a small teacup. Drop them in boifiag 
iard, fry brown and tnm over. For breakfast or tea. 



Beans. 

Top and tail them, pulling off the strings in the process ; out 
them up (holding a dozen at a time in your hand) diagonally 
into pieces the third of an inch in length, throw them in oold 
water as you cut them ; when all are done, wash them, put them 
oyer the fire in boiling water. They require fully two hours' 
boiling, and if old, much longer ; when yery soil, drain them 
through the cullender, throw them back in the pot, add salt| 
butter^ a little dust of flour and a couple of tablespoonsful of 
cream ; giye a boil up and serye ; or you may put them in a 
yegetable dish, with only butter and salt, if you prefer it. 

* Turnips. 

Pare them, cut them into rather small pieces and let them lie 
In cold water at least an hour, then put them in boiling water 
and cook them about an hour ; drain them and squeeie all the 
water from them by pressing them between two wooden plates 
or strong stone-ware, throw them back in the yessel they were 
eooked in, mash them by beating them with a potato-masher, 
add to them butter, salt and a couple of tablespoonsful of cream, 
mix thoroughly and serye in a coyered yegetable dish ; mash 
them on the range where they will keep hot whilst being pre- 
pared. Sprinkle a little black pepper on the top of them, after 
they are in the dish ; or you may dry them by squeezing them 
through a clean towel until all the water is pressed out. 

* Turnips in Sauce. 

Pare them, cut them in quite small pieces about the siie and 
thickness of a kidney bean, lay them in cold water for an hour, 
ihen put them oyer the fire in boiling water, cook until tender. 
Out in this way, they will be done in about half an hour ; drain 
them and dry them slightly by leaying them on the back of the 
ftnge for a few ndnutes, whilst you prepare the sauce as fol- 



VE0ETABLB8. 18S 

lows : melt in a sauoe-pan a heaping tablespoonful of bntteTi 
■tir in it two teaspoonsM of flour and a little salt ; add a teaonp 
of rich milk, give a boil np, stir it all the time until it thiokena, 
then pour it over the turnips, shake them well in it, but do not 
stir them ; give them a boil up and turn them in a covered vege- 
table dish and serve. Turnips are very nice prepared in thu 
way. Serve them with roast or boiled mutton. 

* Cold Slaw. 

Shave very fine half a small solid head of cabbage ; melt in a 
pan a piece of butter the size of an egg, stir in it a heaping 
teaspoonful of flour ; when perfectly smooth, add half a pint 
of milk, with an egg beaten in it ; stir over the fire until very 
thick and beginning to boil, then $et it off&ni stir in the cab- 
bage ; when thoroughly incorporated with the sauce, add a little 
salt and half a cup of cold vinegar^ stir well until all mixed, put 
it in the dish you will serve it in, dust a little pepper over the 
top and set away. It should be made half an hour before 
dinner. 

* Stewed Cabbage. 

You may use for this the coarser parts of cabbage that are too 
poor for cold slaw. Out the cabbage up rather coarsely, chop it 
a little and put it over the fire with boiling water, stew it fbf 
fifteen minutes, then drain off the water, add milk to cover and 
stew it until very tender (about ten or fifteen minutes will do 
it) ; then stir in it a tablespoonful of butter mixed to a paste 
with a heaping teaspoon of flour, give a boil up, add pepper and 
salt and serve. This is an excellent dish. 

* Onions. 

Peel and wash a couple of dozen small onions, put them in a 
stew-pan with boiling water; when they have boiled five 
minutes, drain off the water and all fresh from the tea-kettle ; 
boil in this until tender. In winter they will require three- 
quarters of an hour. Young onions in early summer will cook 
more quickly. Drain off every drop of water; put on then» 



134 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

butter the sue of sn egg^ a teaspoon heaping full of flcnr ; gift 
them a shake to melt the bnttcf and mix it with the floor; po«i 
oyer them a teacup of rich milk, gi^e a boil up, and turn thes 
tUto a oovered T^etable dish ; add a little salt when you put ihie 
butter in. 

Fried Cueumbeii. 

Pare the cucumbers, slice them about half an inch in thick- 
ness, lay them in ice-water for fifteen or twenty minutea, thai 
drain them and wipe each piece separately ; season them with 
pepper and salt and dust them with flour; firy them in butter 
and lardy equal quantities of each. They should be slieed 
lengthwise. 

•Okra. 

Pick out only those that you can pierce easOy with your nail^ 
the old ones will never boil tender ; wash them, put them in 
boiling water and cook them twenty minutes or half an hoar| 
irain them, put them in a covered v^etable dish, with butter^ 
pepper and salt ; vinegar can be added at the table, if liked. 

*Iiima Beans. 

Lima beans should be gathered when only half grown and 
quite green in color ; shell them, wash them and put them on 
ttie fire in boiling water ; they will require about three-quarters 
of an hour to cook ; when done, drain them through a cullen- 
der, throw them back in the vessel they were boiled in, put in 
them a piece of butter as large as an egg, shake them about a 
little, put in an even tablespoonful of flour, shake again untfl 
well mixed, add a teacup of rich milk, give a boil up and serve 

• Salsify Boiled. 

Scrape and wash the salsify, and put it in boiling water, with 
«dt and a tablespoonful of vinegar ; when tender, drain it, put 
It in a vegetable dish and pour over it a sauce made with a 
heaping tablespoonfiod of butter melted with two teaspocms of 
flour ; when smx>th, stix in a oofleecup of rich milk, give a boil 



VEQETABLEB. 188 

ap and pour over. Stir this sauoe all the tim« until it thkkeni 
andboib 

Stewed Carrots. 

Scrape and wash the carrots, and if large split them through 
the middle in four quarters, out them in pieces an inoh ii 

"^hy cover them with boiling water, simmer for ten minutes, 
drain off the water, add fresh from the tea-kettle ; stew them 
until tender, which will take about three-quarters of an hour ; 
let the water gradually stew away, so that there will be very 
little on them when done ; stir in them three ounces of buttex 
(to a yegetable dish of carrots), nearly a tablespoonful of flour 
mixed into the butter, and half a cofFeecup of cream, with salt 
and pepper to your taste ) give a boil up and serve in a covered 
dish. You may add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

Cucumbers Stuffed. 

Four or six full-grown large cucumbers, wash them clean, cut 
a round piece out of the side, scoop out all the seeds from the 
centre, making a hole through the cucumber about an inch in 
diameter; make a filling of nearly a pint of fine bread crumbs, a 
teaspoonftd of sweet marjoram, a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, an onion chopped very fine, pepper and salt, butter thi 
siie of an egg melted and poured over, and the yolk of an egg ; 
mix all well together, fill the cucumbers, place the piece you cul 
out back again in its place ; tie them round vrith soft cord, lay 
them side by side in a small baking-pan, each on a slice of bacon, 
dust them with pepper, salt and flour ; put round them half a 
cup of cold water, and bake them about half an hour in a quick 
oven, basting them occasionally ; when done^ serve them on a 
small meat-dish side by side, each on its piece of bacon ; dust 
some flour in the pan, add a tablespoonful of tomato catsup and 
one of water boil up and pour over the cucumbers. 

* Egg-plant Fried. 

Slice the egg-plant a quarter of ao inch in thickness, lay it im 
a pan of cold water, with a teacup of salt in it, for one hour ; 



136 COOKEBT FROM EXPEEIENCK 

teke ift oat and wipe each piece quite diy, dip it in beaiiB jolk 
jf ^g and corer with cracker dost, aeaawied with p^per onlj, 
and fiy in hot kid a nice brown. 

* Baked Egg-plaat 

Paxe the ^g-phmt, cut it in foor qoarten, and bofl wntfl 
tender in water wiihoitt salt; when soft enoogh to maah, drain 
off the water, mash it perfectly smoodi with a potato-masher, 
add to it a piece of butter the siie of a walnut, salt and pep- 
per ; butter a small baking-dish, put the egg-plant in it, corer 
the top with fine cnimbs of bread, put little pieces of butter over 
the crumbs and dust some pepper and salt ; bake about half an 
hour in a hot oven. This is a delicioiiB dish. 

* Squashes. 

foung squashes do not require peeling; cut them in about 
four pieces, and boil in water with a little salt until tender (from 
half to three-quarteiB of an hour) ; drain them, press them be- 
tween two wooden trenchers or plates until you can squeese out 
no more water; throw them back into the yessel they were 
boiled in, mash them with a potato-masher, add a good piece of 
butter, pepper and salt, keeping them hot <m the range, and 
serre in a ooTcred dish. 

* Parsnips. 

Scrape and wash them, split them down through the middle— 
if large, in quarters ; boil them in water with a little salt ; when 
tender, drain than, put them in a v^etable dish and pour over 
them drawn butter made with milk. 

* Parsnips Fried. 

Scrape and wash them, and boil them whole until tender } 
when cold, cut them in slices lengthwise half an inch in thick- 
ness ; put in a pan a mixture of two-thirds molasses and on^ 
third water (a cup of molasses and half a cup of water), make it 
hot, lay the paranips in and bi Twn them, turning them ofir 



VE0ETABLE8. 137 

when one ride is done; they will absorb all the molasses and 
water by the time they are all browned; serve them dry. 

^ *Beets. 

Beets in summer-time will take very mnoh less time than 

they will in the winter, when they beoome dry and tongh. For 

summer beets : wash them elean, and boil them until tender 

(from half an hour to three-quarters), skin them — ^if large, 

sliee them; if quite small, split them in half, and put them in 

a covered vegetable dish, with plenty of butter, salt and pepper, 

or you may make a drawn butter with milk and pour over tibem. 

Winter beets require a long time to oook — ^two or three hours, 

aeeording to their size. Serve them with butter, pepper and 

salt 

* Mushrooms. 

It is to be supposed you have the right kind before you go so 

fitt as to oook them. Peel the skin from the tops, out off the 

tough end of the stem, wash them clean, take them from the 

water, drain them a minute, and put them in a stew-pan, with 

three ounces of butter to each quart of mushrooms, a little 

cayenne pepper and salt, and cook them quite fast for twenty 

minutes or half an hour ; when tender, they are done ; try with 

a fork through the stems. Turn them into a covered dish and 

serve. 

Mushrooms, Ho. 2. 

Prepare them as above, and put them dry into a stew-pan 
over the fire ; to each quart allow a small teaspoon of salt, half a 
saltspoon of cayenne pepper, three tablespoons of soft butter (not 
melted) mixed smoothly with a tablespoon heaping ftdl of flour ; 
put all together and cook them half an hour or until very tender ; 
when done, stir in a oup of cream, give a boil up and serve in a 
covered dish. 

* Maoaroni Boiled. 

The twisted Italian macaroni is the best. Break eaeh twist 
by crushing it in the hand ; break again, if not small enough ; 
il should be two inches long ; put it in a stew-pan holding at 



138 COCKEBY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

ItMt two quarts and a pint, with a tablespoonfal of salt; siusi^ 
but do not boil it, for about twenty-fiyo or thirty minutes, untO 
Wnder, but not broken or split ; shake it frequently and loosee 
from the bottom of the yessel with a spoon ; replenish it from a 
kettle of boiling water, so as to float it aU the time. These 
direotions will answer for all preparations of maoaroni (the water 
must be boiling when you put the macaroni in it, or it will go 
to paste). When done, drain it through a cullender and let it 
stand coTered whilst you prepare a sauoe, with three ounces ef 
melted butter stirred to a paste with an eyen tablespoonfrd of 
flour, a saltspoonfril of salt and half a pint of milk ; stir it all 
together over the fire until it thickens ; put the macaroni into a 
vegetable dish, pour the sauce over it, shake it through, oorer 
and serve. 

* Hacaroni Baked in Cream. 

Break up the macaroni and prepare it as above ; drain off ail 
the water through a cullender ; when cooked, butter a baking 
dish, put in the maoaroni, sprinkle plentifully with salt, cover 
with little pieces of butter and pour over it rich cream, as muck 
as the dish will hold. Bake in a quick oven three-quarten of 
an hour. Serve in the dish you bake it in. 

* Baked Macaroni 

Break up half a pound of macaroni in two-inch lengths, and 
simaMr it as for boiled macaroni, drain it well; have ready 
grated half a pound of good rich cheese, not too old ; butter a 
baking dish, one^hat will do to serve it in, divide the cheese \m. 
half, put one portion in the dish, scattering it evenly over th^ 
bottom, pour in the macaroni, arrange it smoothly, and put over 
k the remaining half of the cheese, sprinkle it plentifriUy with 
salt, and pour over it a large coffeecup of cream and milk 
mixed ; bake it threo-quarters of an hour ; it should be a niea 
Mrewaoa top. 



VEGETABLES. 110 

Macaroni Pudding. 

"One of the most 9xcellent preparationB of ihji artiole k tke 
ISmbale de Macaroni/' Prepare half a pound of macaroni ai 
above, drain it well in a cullender ; ^' beat up the yolks of Ito 
and the whites of two eggs, take half a pint of rich cream, tlM 
breast of a cold fowl and some thin slices of ham minced £■•; 
add to them two or three tablespoonsful of finely-grated Pam#- 
san cheese'^ (this is the pineapple cheese), '^ and season witk 
pepper and salt. Mix all these with the macaroni, and put into 
a pudding-mould well buttered^ cover closely, let it steam in a 
0tew-pan of boiling water fbr about an hour. Serve quite hot 
with rich gravy." — Kitchener. 

This may also be baked. It iisi a European way of prepariag 
■taearoni, and a very fine recipe. If baked, put it in a nAm 
AallniT diek and bake three-quarters of an hour; 

* fitewad Celery. 

Wash the celery clean, eut it in pieces about two inehea m 
length, put it in a stew-pan with cold water to cover, and siah 
mer slowly nearly two hours ; then drain off the water ; add to 
the celery a coffeeoup of cream^ two ounces of butter with a taa- 
tpoonfhl of flour mixed in it, and a little salt ; give a boil Uf^ 
and serve. Serve with boiled poultry or mutton. 

* Hominy. 

PhUaddphiant call by this name the full-sized unbrokeai 
article ; take of such a ooffeecup^l, wash it in two or three 
waters ; its whiteness depends somewhat on this, and put it at 
an earthen sauce-pan with a close-fitting lid, holding about two 
quarts or a little more (no less), fill up with cold water, cover 
closely, and set it far off in one corner of the range the morning 
ef the day before you wish it for dinner ; do not disturb it until 
next day; then quite early in the morning bring it forward 
where it will oook slowly, stir it occasionally, add no more uxUm'^ 
and let it cook until ready to serve for dinner, be that early er 



140 COOKER T FROM EXPERIENCE. 

hie ; towards dinner-time, if not boiled auffioiendy diji leaTe off 
the lid for a while that the water may all eyaporatOi as it must 
be dry wUkofut dravniing. When ready to serve it, pat in a vege- 
table-dish a pieoe of batter as large as an egg and a teaspoonfiil 
of salt, tarn the hominy in the dish, make a little hole in the 
middle, pat in it two tablespoonsfol of oream (not milk), oover 
closely and send to table, to be stirred when helped. If these 
directions are followed, yoa will have hominy in perfection, 
which is a very excellent dish ; most other ways of cooking it 
yoa have a compoand that nobody eats. 

* Samp or Oriti. 

This is the hominy groand rather coarsely, called sometimes 
break&st-homiAy; it will boil in a maoh shorter time than the 
above ; pat it on in cold water, and boil it an hour or two slowly, 
served plainly and seasoned at the table. When cold, yoa may 
make a very nice dish of what has been left from another meal 
by starring in it, to aboat a pint, three eggs well beaten, batter 
the sise of an egg melted in a cap of warm milk, and a little 
salt ; beat it antil perfectly smooth, batter a dish, tarn in the 
mixtare, and bake in a qaick oven from half to three-qaarters 
of an hoar ; when a nice brown, it is done. For breakftst, or to 
eat with roast meat at dinner. 

* Fried Tomatoes with Cream Oravy. 

Wash and wipe large ripe tomatoes, and cat them in slices 
half an inch in thickness, season with pepper and salt, and fry 
them in sweet drippings or half batter and half lard. When 
they are all done, dish them, and dost a little floar in the pan, 
poar in a teacap of rich cream, give a boil ap, poar over the 
tanatoes and serve. A nice breakfast dish. 

* Baked Tomatoes. 

Poai boiling water over them to loosen the skins, peel them, 
and oat oat any green core there may be ; batter a baking-dish, 



VE0ETABLE8. 141 

put in the tomatoes whole, two layers, each one seasoned with 
pepper, salt, a sprinkling of sugar, and little pieoes of batter put 
over qnito thickly, and bread cmmbs, rather more crumbs on 
the lep layer than the other, strew pieces of butter, pepper and 
salt over the crumbs on the top, bake nearly two hours in a good 
OTen, serve them in the dish they are baked in. Canned toma- 
toes that are put up without cooking are very nice done in thii^ 
way. 

* Broiled Tomatoes. 

Wash and wipe fine large ripe tomatoes, cut them in half 
horixontally through the middle, put them on a gridiron with the 
cut side down oyer a clear fire. When partially cooked, turn 
them over, and finish them with the skin side next the fire ; lay 
them on a hot dish, and season with butter, pepper and salt. 
A nice breakfast dish. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Take fine large ripe tomatoes, cut out the blossom end, and 
scoop out the insides as clean as you can without breaking the 
skins, chop this fine, add to it equal parts of cold roast beef, 
mutton or chicken, cut as fine as possible with a chopper, and as 
much green com as meat, cut raw from the cob, mix all together 
and add a few bread crumbs made very fine, season with pepper 
and salt, and a very little piece of onion chopped fine ; fill the 
tomato skins with this mixture, put a piece of butter as large as 
a nutmeg on the top of each one, and place them side by side in 
a buttered baking-dish large enough to hold them without put- 
ting them oyer one another; bake them nearly an hour in a good 
oyen. 

* Stewed Tomatoes. 

Poor boiling water oyer the tomatoes to loosen the skins, let 
them lie in it for a few minutes, peel them, cut out the green 
core, and squeeze a little of the juice from them, cut them up, 
and put them in a shallow uncoyered yessel, season them with 
pepper, salt, a teaspoon heaping full of sugar, and set them oyer 
a brisk fire ; cook tiiem twenty minutes or half an hour, stirring 



142 COOKER T FROM EXPERIENCE. 

tk«m fteqaently. When tbey are cooked, add a tableapoonfml 
ef butter witb balf as muob floor rubbed in it, simoLer one 
mijiute longer and serve. Tbey are very nice tbickened with 
gniled bread crumbs instead of flour. 

* Succotash. 

Shell a quart of Lima or string beans (the last, after the poda 
are too old for the table), put them in a stew-pan with twe 
quarts of cold water, and cook them an hour or until they ate 
tender, allowing the water to boil away until there is very little 
on them ; cut the corn from two dozen ears, scrape the cob dowft 
with the back of a knife, add all to the beans, with pepper, sak, 
and a teacup of cream, simmer gently for twenty minutes, stir- 
ring frequently to prevent burning; then add butter the siie of 
an egg, stir it well in and serve. 

* Brown Onion Sauce. 

Peel and slice the onions, melt in a pan a quarter of a pound 
of butter for a quarter of a peck of onions (it is not worth while 
to do less than this quantity as they shrink very much in cook- 
isg), put the onions in with the butter, season with plenty of 
pepper and salt, and set them a little back where they will cook 
•lowly, cover them, and cook for two hours. When done, they 
will be a fine, rather light brown all through; dust in a vecy 
little flour, give a boil up, and serve with roast ducks or game; 
stir' them frequently whilst they are eboking, and watch then 
that they are not on too hot a range or they will bum. 

* Brown Freneh Beans. 

Put a pint of beans in cold water ever night, wash them well 
before putting them to soak, and in the morning put thMn im a 
iamee-pan or pot in the water they were soaked in, and cook them 
dlewly four or five hours, with a little salt in the water; let the 
water all boil off them towards the last, they will then have a 
rich sauce around them, and must not be drained ; turn then 
la a vegetable-dish with butter the size of an tgg^ and a little 
salt : cover and serve. Good with roast mutton or poultry 



VEGETABLES. 148 

* To boU Bice. 

Wash the noe in seyeral waters, put it on the fire is bciling 
mter with a little salt, let it boil ten minutes escacfi^, stirring il 
tmet^ then drain off the water, put the lid closely on the yessel, 
set a litUe on one side, and let it steam for exactly ten minutes 
more, then turn out and serve. Bice that is boiled in this way 
is perfectly tender, dry, and every grain separate. A cofiidecup 
if rice will fill a small vegetable dish when cooked. 

* Asparagus. 

Out off the tough ends, peel the skins off up to the heads, 
wash very clean, and tie in little bundles with wrapping cord, 
keads all one way ; put them in boiling water, with a teaspoonfkl 
ef salt. They will require about three-quarters of an hour to 
boil. When the asparagus is done, cut a slice of bread all 
around the loaf, half an inch in thickness, toast it a nice brown, 
£p it quickly into the water the asparagus was boiled in, and 
lay it in the dish you will serve it in ; take the strings from the 
asparagus, lay it on the toast, heads all one way, and pour over 
k a drawn butter made with a tablespoonful of butter melted 
with a heaping teaspoon of flour and a small teacup of the water 
flie asparagus was boiled in ; give a boil up altc^ether in a little 
iMiee-pan. 

* Poke. 

Wash the stalks, tie them in little bundles, as asparagus, put 
ikem in boiling water with a little salt, cook them until tender, 
Ikey will take from half to three-quarters of an hour ; lay thcM 
m a dish and pour drawn butter over them, but made of boiling 
water from the tea-kettle, in the proportion of that for the 
asparagus ; or you may put a good lump of butter on it and 
dw( on pepper and salt ; add vinegar at Uie table, if liked. 

* Spinach. 

Spinach requires to be well washed, or it is apt to be sandy. 
•i* eff the roots, so as to allow the leaves to fall apart, wash is 



144 COOKERT FROM EXPMRIBNCK 

Wfienl witen^ and kt it Ee in cold water fiir an hour or nora; 
dien pni it in boiling witer witii a little aah^ boil about tweatf 
minntoB or half an boor, drain it tbrongb a onllendor, ehop it in 
a wooden bowl, return it to the yessel it was boiled in; put in it 
butter the siie of an egg^ pepper and salt ; stir it oyer the fire 
mtfl the butter is melted, when it is ready to serve. Pot it in 
a eovered Timetable dish, with a couple of poached e^s laid on 
it, or two hard-boiled eggs slioed and laid over the top. Yon 
may add to the spinach before it is dished a ooiqple of table- 
spoonsful of cream, with as much flour mixed in it as would lia 
on a threeH»ent piece. 

*OTeen Cora. 

This should be cooked on the same day it is gathered; it 
loses its sweetness in a few hours, and must be artifieialfy sup- 
plied. Strip off the husks, pick out all the silk, and put it in 
boOing water ; if not entirely fresh, add a tablespoonful of sugpi 
to the water, but no taU; boil twenty minutes fint^ serve on an 
open meat dish, covered with a napkin ; or you may out it firan 
the cob, put in plenty of butter and a little salt, and serve in a 
covered vegetable dish. 

It is very nice mixed with Lima beans, after it is cut from the 
cob ; have the beans hot and drained very dry, and stir them in 
the com after it is cut off, with plenty of butter. 

* Stewed Sweet Cera. 

Out corn that is full grown, but young and tender, from the 
cob, and put it in a sauce-pan with new milk to cover it, and 
stew dowl^ for twenty minutes, watehing closely and stirring or 
it win bum ; when done, stir in a large teblespoonfrd of butter, 
withhalf a teaspoonM of flour stirred in it and a small teaspoon 
of sugar, if the com is not freshly gathered ; give a boil up and 
serve in a covered dish. 

Com left cold from the day before may be out from the cob and 
cooked over in this way — ^but for ten minuteSi instead of twenty, 
and served fo«> breakftst 






BREAD, AND BATTER CAKES, &c. 



*Teait 

Put a large handfdl of bops oyer the fire in three pints of eold 
water^ boil it fifteen minutes; pnt in a small stone pot fi^e 
tablespoonsfiil of flour, mixed to a paste with oold water ; add to 
it a tablespoonful of salt, a teacup of white sugar, a teaspoonful 
of ginger and five raw potatoes, peeled, washed and grated. 
When the hops have boiled fifteen minutes, strain the water off 
them boiling hot on to this mixture ; put baok into the vessel 
you boiled the hops in, after rinsing it out ; let all oome to a 
boil } stir until it thickens. When nearly cold, add a teacup of 
yeast, set it in a warm place until perfectly light ; then stir it 
down and keep it in a cool place closely covered. 

* Teast, Ho. 2. 

Two single nandsftil of hops, boiled fbr half an hour in a 
quart of water (closely covered), strain it on to half a pint or a 
little more rye flour, to make a stiff batter ; add a tablespoonful 
of salty one of sugar and one of ground ginger ; when cool, stir 
in a teacup of yeast. In winter, put in two tablespoons of this 
yeast and in summer one, for three loaves of bread. Keep it 
in a cool place covered closely. 

Dry Teast 

Peel, wash and boil six medium-siied white potatoes; put 
into a crock three pints of flour, press the potatoes through a 
ouUender into the flour ; boil a large handful of hops in three 
10 (145) 



146 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

pints of water for fifteen minates, strain over the floor and 
potatoes, mix thoronglily, and when only milk-warm, pour in 
eold water enough to make it the eonsistenoy of sponge ; soak a 
half pint of dry yeast and add to it , let it rise very light, stir- 
ring it down three or four times; then put three qnarts of 
siffced oom meal into a hread-bowl and poor the raised yeast into 
the middle of it, mix until quite stiff, roll out, cut in squares, 
and put it on dishes to dry in the air where it is shady ; turn it 
occasionally. It will dry in a couple of days. Put it in bags, 
and hang it up in a dry place. 

* Bread, Ho. L 

Boil six or eight potatoes in a quart of water; whm per- 
fectly soft, mash them in the water they were boiled in and 
press them through a cullender, stir into them a quart of bmled 
milk, and when a little cool, add a teacup of yeast and flour 
enough to make a stiff batter, with a little salt ; let this stand 
all night ; in the morning pour it into a pan or bread-bowl, into 
which you have sifted three quarts of flour ; stir all together 
into a dough, adding more flour, if you have not enough; cover 
it with a clean towel or bread-cloth, and if in winter, set it in a 
warm place until perfectly light^ which you can test by pulling 
it from the side of the pan with your finger; if it draws innu- 
merable threads, it is ready to knead ; flour your paste-board 
and turn the dough on it, and knead it for at least thre» 
quarters of an hour, and if you double the time, the bread wk 
be all the better ; add as little flour as you possibly can, only a 
sprinkle now and then on the board to prevent its sticking 
divide into even portions, as many as you wish loaves ; make 
each one into a round ball, put them into greased bread-pans, 
flatten them and set them covered in a warm place ; in half an 
hour they will be ready to bake. Bread does not require as hot 
an oven as pastry or cake. You may make the bread with mktx^ 
if you prefer it. instead of milk. 



BREAD, CAKES, &c 147 

* Bread, No. 2. 

Peel and oat in pieces two potatoes, boil them in a pint of 
water; when perfectly tender, mash them, stir in them the 
water they were boiled in, and when cool, add three pints of new 
milk, which has been boiled and cooled, a teaspoonful of salt, 
and a teacup of yeast; stir in sifted flour to make a dough, 
eoTcr this and let it rise all night ; in the morning knead it for 
half or three-quarters of an hour, using very little flour, and let 
it rise again until very light ; then turn it on your paste-board, 
divide it into loaves, knead very little, shape them and put them 
in buttered pans; let them rise again for about half an hour; 
then bake in a moderate oven. 

Brown Bread, No. 1. 

To one quart of unbolted flour put a pint of wheat flour, a 
iablespoonfiil of brown sugar, and a little salt ; mix with luke- 
warm water, and proceed as in other bread. 

* Brown Bread, flfo. 2. 

Make a stiff sponge in the evening of unbolted flour and a 
quart of tepid water ; add a little salt and half a cup of yeast; 
in the morning add half a teacup of brown sugar, knead it well 
in ; make up into loaves, and set them in a warm place to rise. 
When light, bake in a rather hot oven. 

* Mountain Bread, No. 1. 

Two pounds of flour, with a quarter of a pound of butter and 
the same of lard rubbed through it ; add a little salt, mix it 
with a pint of sour milk, and stir through it a teaspoonful of 
saliraltts or soda ; roll out very thin ; bake on tins, mark it with 
a kaift and break in squares. Serve hot. 

Mountain Bread, No. 2. 

One quart of flour, a piece of butter the size of an egg nibbed 
into it with your hands half a teaspoonful of salt ; mix with 



148 COOKERY FROM EXPEBIBNCE. 

mmi milk, add a teaspoon balf full of soda disBolyed in a littla 
hoi water, roll out thin, mark into squares with a knife, break it 
up and serye hot 

Konntain Bread, Vo. 8. 

live pints of sifted flour, with three teaspoonsftd of eream of 
tartar mixed in it dry, a teaspoonM of salt ; melt in a half-pint 
of nulk, half a pint of butter and lard, equal parts of eaeh ; when 
a little eooled, stir in the flour } mix well, and then add half a 
pint more of oold milk in which you have dissolyed a teaspoonfU 
of soda. Knead it well ; the dough should be very soft — ^if not 
so, add a little more oold milk. Boll out in thin sheets, mark it 
in squares the size you wish to break it, and bake it on tins ten 
minutes in a quick oven. Break it up and serve hot. 

Saratoga Bread. 

Warm two tablespoonsfiil of butter in a pint of sweet milk, 
stir it gradually into a quart of sifted flour, add half a teaspoonful 
of salt and four tablespoonsful of yeast ; let it rise all night, if 
for breakfast — if for tea, set it at noon. Before baking, add 
half a small teaspoonful of saleratus ; pour into a shallow pan, 
which has been buttered, and bake half an hour in a good oyen. 

* Bye Bread. 

Make a sponge in the eyening with three pints of tepid water 
and rye flour to make a stiff batter ; add a teacup of yeast; in 
the morning stir in with a spoon rye flour until you haye it not 
quite as stiff as wheat bread ; put it in greased pans, wet your 
hand in cold water and smooth the tops of the loayes^ set them 
in a warm place to rise for an hour, or until to the tops of the 
pans; then bake. This quantity will make three good-siied 
loayes. Add a teacup of yeast to the sponge in the eyening. 

* Bread Biseuit 

When the bread is kneaded ready to go in the pass, set away 
in a cool place a pint-bowl of it; at twelve o'clock beat it with 
an egg, a piece of butter the siie of an egg, and half a cup of 



BREAD, CAKES, dte. 148 

rich milk. WLen thoroughly inoorporated, stir in as much flour 
as you will need to roll them ont^ knead it into a loaf, and set it 
to rise in a warm place. When yery light, torn it on to the 
paste-board, roll it out, and cut into bisonit; put them in pans, 
let them rise about half an hour longer, and bake about fifteen 
minutes in a quick oyen. 

Maryland Biscuit, Vo. 1. 

One quart of flour, rub in it with your hands half a oup of 
butter, half a teaspoon of salt ; make a stiff dough with cold 
milk, knead it a little, then turn out on a paste-board, and beat 
it with a rolling-pin for twenty minutes or half an hour, knead 
ing into a ball and beating out continually ; roll out half an inch 
thick, out in small round cakes, prick them with a fork, and 
bake about fifteen minutes in pans well greased. 

Maryland Biscuit, Vo. 2. 

Two pints of flour, two tablespoons of lard rubbed through it, 
a little salt and one egg ) rub all well together, mix with cold 
milk into a stiff dough, and beat two hours with a rolling-pin ; 
mould into little balls rather larger than a walnut, flatten them, 
pncc with a fork, and bake ten or fifteen minutes in buttered 
pans. 

Maryland Biscuit, Vo. 3. 

Rub half a pound of lard into three pounds of flour, put in a 
spoonful of salt, a teacup of cream, and water sufficient to make 
a stiff dough ; divide it into two parts, and work each well until 
it will break off short and is smooth ] cut it in small pieces and 
mould it into little round balls ) give them a slight roll with a 
rolling-pin to flatten them a little, stick them with a fork, and 
lay them, not to touch each other, in greased pans, and bake in 
a quick oven. 

* Very fine Biscuit 

Two pounds of siflied flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, a 
^eee of lard the sise of a walnut, three eggs, a teaspoon of salt. 



IftO COOKERY ^BOM JSXPJEBIBNCE. 

three boiled potatoes mashed fine, two-thirds of a pint of milk 
and four tablespoons of yeast ; keep out half a dredge-box of 
flonr and make a sponge with the milk, flour, yeast and salt. 
Put the floor in a large bowl, make a hole in the middle of it, in 
whioh pat the milk, yeast and salt, stirring it into a sponge al 
ten o'olock in the morning, if the biscuit are for tea. Beat yerj 
light the eggs, potato, butter and lard; mix them with the 
i|>onge at twelve o'clock, make all up into a loaf and set in a 
warm place until four o'clock ; then roll out, using the flour leffc 
out and no more ; let them rise again, and bake in a quick oven 
ten or fifteen minutes. 

''Fayal Biscuit/' 

Three cups of flour, one cup of milk, a piece of bmtler ilie 
lue of an egg, three eggs beaten light, a teaspoonfml af sugar, 
two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar dxy in the flour, e«e cf seda 
dissolved in a teaspoon of hot water and added juil btflve 
baking. Mix the eggs, milk, sugar and salt together, iAr ki Ike 
flour, ^'hen the butter warmed^ then the soda, and bake imme- 
diately, either in muffin-rings or roll-pan. 

r 

* Soda Biscuit. 

Three pints of flour, a tablespoon of butter and one of lard, a 
teaspoon of salt, three teaspoons even full of cream of tartar, one 
of soda; sift the cream of tartar with the flour dry, rub the 
butter and lard very thoroughly through it ; dissolve the soda 
in a pint of milk, and mix all together. Boll out, adding as 
little flour as possible; cut with a biscuit-cutlier and bake 
twenty minutes in a quick oven. 

* Tea Biscuit 

Take as much dough from the above recipe for bread, when 
moulding for the pans, as '\rould make one loaf, work into it a 
quarter of a pound of butter, divide into biscuits, roll them 
round, flatten a little and place them in buttered pans ; let them 
rise until very li^ht, and bake. If you wish them Lot, set the 



BBEAL, CAKES, Sc 161 

tump of doagh in tlie cellar, or in a very oool place, untQ about 
four o'clock in the afternoon; then add the butter, work it 
thoroughly into the dough, mould out and set to rise. 

Tea Biscuit, If o. 2. 

BoL a quart of milk, and pour it over half a pound of butter 
and lard, equal quantities of each ; add two tablespoonsful of 
sugar, and one grated potato ; when nearly cool, stir in flour to 
mAke a thick sponge, add the salt with the flour; then stir in the 
whites only of two eggs and half a cup of yeast. When very 
light, roll out, using as little flour as possible ; cut in biscuit, 
put in buttered pans, set in a warm place until very light, which 
will be in half an hour, and bake in a quick oven ten or fifteen 
minutes 

* Potato Biscuit. 

Peel, wash and boil eight large potatoes, dry them off, and 
mash them, with a piece of butter the size of a large egg ; add 
a teaspoonful of salt and milk enough to make a batter of them ; 
stir in flour to make a stiff dough, with half a teacup of 
good yeast When light, roll out and cut in biscuit; let them 
rise until rery light. Bake in a quick OTcn ten or fifteen 
minutes. 

* Dried Bread. 

As pieces of bread will accumulate sometimes, it is well to 
know a use they may be put to. Spread the slices and pieces on 
a tin dish and set them in a moderate oven until perfectly dry 
and slightly brown ; when nearly oold, roll them quite fine and 
keep them in a tin or wooden box. They are nice for frying 
oysters, or for sprinkling oyer a ham that is to be baked, ot for 
any purpose you would use bread crumbs. 

* Breakfast Bolls 

One pint of milk, three^iuarters of a cup of butter, or butter 
and lard mixed, half a teacup of yeast, a little salt; make a thick 
of these oyer night, using all the flour you will need| 



152 COOKEBT FROM EXPEBIENOE. 

ezoepting wliat yon use in rolUng them ont. In the moniing 
floor a paAte-board, turn them on it and roll ont half an inoh 
thick, ont them ont with a biscnit-ontter, lay one or anoCh« 
(two deep), put them in the pans, which mnst be well greased^ 
iet them in a warm place, let them get yeiy light^ and bake 
fifteen minntes in a hot oven. 

* Hot Solli. 

One pi|it of milk scalded, stir in it a tablespoonftd of bntter; 
when cool, the white of one egg beaten light, a little salt, three 
tablespoonsful of yeast and flour enough to make a soft dough ; 
mix with a spoon, set oyer night, and next morning drop in but- 
tered roll-pans and bake about fifteen minutes. They should 
not be much thicker when mixed up at night than muffin batter, 
and no more added in the morning. This quantity makes 
twelve rolls. They are exceedingly nice. 

* Split Soils. 

Boil a pint of milk and let it cool, rub into a quart of flour a 
tablespoonftd of butter and one of lard, add half a teaspoonfid 
of salt ; make a hole in the middle of the flour and stir in the 
milk, half a teacup of yeast and two teaspoonsftil of white sugar ; 
let this stand until morning, then mix all togo^L :r and set in a 
warm place to rise. When light, knead into a very soft dough, 
and let it rise again until noon, then roll out, cut into round 
cakes, spread very thinly a little butter over each one, fold o?er| 
making a half circle of each one, and put them in pans to rise 
again. When very light, bake. If you wish them for breakfiuit, 
set them at noon the day before, and knead them up at ten 
o'clock at night, and in the morning roll out and put in the 
pans. 

* Very Fine BoUs. 

One pint of new milk poured hot over two large potatoes 
boiled and mashed, two ounces of butter and two of lard stirred 
into the potato and m^lk, a teaspoonftil of sugar, one of salt» two 
pounds of sifted flour and half a teacup of yeast ; knead all to* 



BREAD, CAKES, Ste. 158 

geOieT fioT twenty minutes after breakfast if for tea; when yery 
ligkt, roll them out an inch in thickness, put in pans, rise again 
ant^ very light, and bake in a hot oven. 

« *' Parker-House BoUs." 

At noon mix well with two quarts of sifted flour, one table- 
spoonful of lard, and a little salt ; make a hollow in the middle of 
the flour, and pour in it a pint of hot-boiled milk, and set it away 
to oool until evening, then stir in the milk half a teacup of yeast, 
the same quantity of white sugar, and set it in a warm place to 
rise. In the morning knead all well together, not using any 
additional flour; let it rise until noon; if it gets light before 
that time mould it over again ; at noon roll out about half an 
inch in thickness, cut into shape, place in buttered pans an inch 
apart, and set in a warm place to rise until tea-time. Bake ten 
minutes in a hot oven. 

* French Kolls. 

One quart of sweet milk, a quarter of a pound of butter, a 
teacup of yeast, a teaspoonful of saleratus ; warm the milk and 
butter together until the butter is melted, stir in half a teaspoon 
of salt, the saleratus dissolved in a teaspoon of hot water, flour 
to make a stiff sponge, then the yeast ; set them over night for 
breakfast, roll out with as little flour as possible, put them in 
Duttered pans to rise. When very light, bake in a hot oven ten 
or fifteen minutes. 

* Flannel Kolls. 

,Four eggs, one quart of milk, flour to make a batter the con- 
iistence of muffins ; bake in round tins three inches deep half 
an hour in a quick oven. 

* Pocket-book Kolls. 

Take at noon one pint of morning milk, a piece of butter t|ie 
siie of a walnut, a tablespoonfu. of sugar and a little salt; boil 
all together ; when cool, add half a teacup of yeast and two 



166 OOOKERT FROM EXPERIENCE. 

Bake about twenty minntcj^ in flat square tin8| mark the 
through with a knife, break up, and serve hot. 

Tea Cake. 

Three oupe of bread-dough ready for loaves, three eupa of 
sugar, three eggs, one oup of butter, one teaspoon of eream of 
tartar, half an ounce of soda; mix all together thoroughly, soda 
last, and bake in loaf or flat tins. 



Oriddle Cakes, Vo. L 

Two oups of boiled rioe mashed, one oup of flour, one of oom 
meal ; mix with oold milk to form a stiffish batter, sift two teaspoons 
of eream of tartar in the flour, and dissolve a small teaspoon of 
soda in a tablespoonftil of hot water, and add it after stirring in 
two beaten eggs. Bake on a griddle the same as buckwheat 
oakes. 

* Rice Oriddle Cakes, Ho. 8. 

Pick and wash half a pint of rioe, boil it very soft, drain it 
and stir in it a piece of butter the size of an egg. When cool| 
jdft over it one pint and a half of wheat flour, add a saltspoonfU 
of salt, beat five eggs very light and stir into it, add a quart of 
milky beat the whole very hard, and bake on a griddle. 



Oriddle Cakes, Ho. 8. 

Pick, wash and boil half a pound of rice until very soft, drain 
off the water, mash it with a potato-masher, stir in butter the 
siie of an egg. When cool, stir in six eggs beaten light, half a 
pound of flour, and a quart of milk ; beat all well together and 
bake on a griddle. 

* Indian Heal Break&st Cake. 

Scald a quart of Indian meal with boiling water until like 
mush, add a teacup of boiled grits or fine hominy, a little salt, 
two beaten eggs, and milk enough to make a thick batter, a small 
teaspoon even full of saleratus, put in last, bake in square tins, 
well buttered, in a quiek oven : cut in squares and serve hot 



BREAD, CAKES, Sc. 167 

* Oatmeal Break&st Cakes. 

To a pint-bowl of oold oatmeal musli, stir in it about half a 
sup of hot water (use m\j enough to moisten it, and beat it 
smooth), then add two eggs beaten very light, separately and 
then together ; add oold milk to make a thin batter, and a tab«e- 
spoonftd of flour ; if they break in baking, add a yeiy little more 
flour. 

* Buekwheat Cakes. 

Three pints of buckwheat meal, two heaping tablespoonsful of 
unbolted flour, or one of white flour and one of Indian meal, a 
teaspoon^ of salt ; stir these together, adding gradually water 
slightly warm to make a stiff batter, beat for fifleen minutes, 
then add half a oup of good yeast, a tablespoonful of molasses, 
and a little more water, beating well together ; cover them, and 
set them to rise in a warm place over night if for breakfast ; in 
the morning, if you flnd them too thick, add a little more water 
with a saltspoonful of soda dissolved in it. 

7elyet Cakes. 

One quart of milk, the same of flour sifted, three eggs beaten 
light, and a little salt ; stir the milk gradually into the flour, 
beating well; add the salt, then the eggs, and a wine-glass of 
yeast; stir in a tablespoonful of melted butter, beat thoroughly^ 
set it in a warm place at noon, if for tea, and when light^ bake in 
muflbi-rings ; if for breakfast, set them at sight. 

Corn-batter Cakes. 

One pint of corn meal, a small teaspoon of soda, the same of 
salt. Pour boiling water over the Indian meal, beating all the 
time until like mush; let it stand until cool, add the beaten 
yolks of four eggs, a handful of flour, with two teaspoonsful of 
oream of tartar in it, stir in milk until like buckwheat eakes, 
then add the soda in a spoonful of hot water, whites of eggn 
last ; bake on a griddle 



168 COOKER Y FROM EXPERIENCE. 

* Wisooni in Cakes. 

Two teacups of unbolted flour, one of white wheat flour, two 
eggs and a pint of oold milk. Beat the eggs and stir in flouz 
and milk alternately, adding a little salt; heat the pan hot in 
the oven ; put a pieoe of butter the size of a small nutmeg in 
each little cup, pour each one half ^11, and bake in a hot oren 
fifteen minutes. These cakes, the Rye Pufl^, and Laplanders, 
require to be baked in a pan which comes for the purpose and 
can be procured at any hardware store. 

* Flannel Cakes. 

Beat three eggs separately and then together \ stir in alter- 
nately flour to make a thin batter with three pints of buttermilk 
or sour milk ; melt a tablespoonfui of butter and add it with a 
little salt ; last a teaspoon even Aill and a half of soda dissolved 
in a little warm water, and bake immediately on a hot griddle. 

* Kaised Flannel Cakes. 

Warm a quart of milk, put in it a tablespoonfui of butter, a 

liUle salt and two beaten eggs; stir in flour until it is a thin 

batter ; add half a teacup of yeast ; beat all well together ; set 

them over night, if for breakfast ; at noon, for tea. Bake on a 

hot griddle. 

* Kush Cakes. 

Mould cold boiled mush into balls, with a little flour, to pre- 
vent its sticking to your hands, flatten them half an inch thick, 
and bake a nice brown on a hot griddle ; turn them over when 
one side is brown. Split and butter them, and send to table 

hot. 

* Buttered Toast. 

Out even slices round the loaf half an inch thick, toast them 
evcttly brown on both sides, dip each slice quickly in boiling 
water and cover with melted butter, which must be prepared 
before you commence to toast the bread; sprinkle each sliee 
with a very little salt, lay them on each other as you butter 
them. Set them in a hot oven for a few minutes, and serve. 



BREAD, CAKES, Sc IM 

Dried Toast 
Out and toast as above, and serve quioklj without batter, in a 
toast-raok 

* Cream Toast 
Out and toast as foi battered toast foor or five slioes of bread, 
boil a pint of cream, dip eaob slice in the boiling oream, laj 
hem in a oovered dish ; add a little salt tc the cream, poar it 
over the toast, cover and serve. 

* Milk Toast 

Cat slices from a loaf of stale bread half an inch thick, and 
toast them evenly brown on both sides ; whilst the bread is 
toasting, boil three pints of milk, and when it comes to a boil, 
stir in it a qaarter of a pound of batter rubbed to a paste with 
two tablespoonsful of flour and a little salt. When it begins to 
thicken, dip each slice of toast in it, and lay them evenly in a 
deep dish. When all are done, pour over the milk^ cover 
closely andjserve. 

Hew England Breakfast Padding. 

Boil a quart of milk in the evening, and pour it whilst hot 
very slowly over seven heaping tablespoons^ of Indian meal, 
stirring all the time ; then add a little salt and half a teacup of 
molasses ; batter a TurkVhead pudding-dish, pour the pudding 
in, and set it in a cool oven and let it remain all night, until 
breakfast time. Serve hot. To be eaten ¥dth butter. A stand- 
ing Sunday morning breakfast-dish in some parts of New Eng 
land. 

* Laplanders. 

One quart of flour, a quart of milk, two eggs, a teaspoon cf 
•alt; beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately. 

Beat all together ; bake in a Wisconsin pan ; put the pan into 
the oven and make it hot, then put a piece of butter the siie of 
a hickory nut into each compartment. When melted, half flD 
them with the batter, and lake quickly in a hot oven. 



160 COOKER T FR OM EXPEBIENOB. 

* Bye Pnib. 

One pint of milk, four eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and 
rye flenr to make a thin batter. These must be baked in the 
same pan and in the same way as Wisconsin Cakes. 

* Pop-OYers. 

Two caps of flour, two of milk, two eggs, batter the size of an 
egg, a little salt; rob the batter in the floar, add the eggs beaten 
▼ery light, separately and then together, then the salt and milk , 
bake qaickly in small tins or caps in a hot oven ; fill the tins 
only half fall ; eaten hot with butter for breakfast or tea. 

*Wheatlets. 
Three cups of flour, three eggs, one pint of new milk, and a 
little salt; mix and bake the same as Wisconsin oakes. 

* Baised XalBns, Ho. 1. 
Three pints of flour, three eggs, a piece of butter the siie of 
an egg, two teaspoons heaping Aill of white sugar, half a cup of 
yeast, and a quart of milk ; warm the milk with the butter in it, 
cool a little, stir in the sugar, addn little salt; stir this gradually 
into the flour, then add the e^s and yeast. Make them up at 
noon, if wanted for tea, and when light, stir in half a teaspoon 
of soda dissolved in a teaspoonful of hot water ; add just before 
you put the batter in the rings — ^fill them only half full. 

Baised Huflbis, Ho. 2. 
One quart of milk, three eggs, three ounces of butter or butter 
and lard mixed, a teacup of yeast and flour to make a stiff batter. 
Beat the eggs separately, stir in the flour and milk alternately^ 
melt the butter and stir it in last ; then add the yeast and a 
little salt. If for breakfast, set them at ten o'clock at night ; if 
flnr tea, at noon. Bake on the griddle in muffin-rings. 

* Bread Huffins. 
One coffeecup of dough ready for the pans, four eggs, a pint 
and a half of milk, three tablespoonsAil of melted batter, a little 



BREAD, CAKES, Ae. 161 

salt, a teaspoonM of white sugar; mix all together, and stir in 
floor to make a stiff batter ; when very light, stir in half a tea- 
spoon of saleratos dissolved in a little warm water, and bake in 
tin rings on a hot griddle. 

Com Hufflns, Ho. 1. 

One eoffeecnp of sweet milk, one of buttermilk or sour oream, 
(me heaping tablespoonful of lard, one ooffeeoup of boiled rice, 
one of oorn meal, and two eggs beaten separately ; beat the 
buttermilk, rice, lard and yolks of eggs together ; then add the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth, the flour, and the sweet milk, with 
hi^ a teaspoon of soda dissolved in it, last of all. Bake in 
muffin-rings. 

Com Huiflns, No. 2. 

One quart of milk, two eggs, two tablespoonsful of sugar, one 
oup of flour, a little salt, a tablespoonfal of melted butter, two 
teaspoons of cream of tartar dry in the flour, and a teaspoonful 
of soda dissolved in a little of the milk ; mix all together, and 
add oora meal enough to make a batter ; stir in the soda last of 
all. Bake in muffin-rings, set on a hot griddle, turning them ; 
or you may set the muffin-rings in a dripping-pan and bake them 
in a hot oven. 

Bioe Huflbu. 

One pint of boiled rice, one of sweet milk, five eggs, one half 
oup of butter and lard mixed, one pint of bread sponge and a 
pinch of salt. Beat the yolks of the eggs, the rice, and butter 
and lard together ; then add the sponge, beat it in with the 
milk } stir in flour enough to make a stiff batter, let it rise very 
light, and beat in the whites of the eggs just before baking. 

Potato Hufliiis. 

BoO as many potatoes as will make two pounds when done; 

mash them very fine } star in two tablespoonsful of butter and a 

teaspoonful of salt; thin them with cold milk; stir in two 

pounds of sifted flour and half a cupftd of yeast ; beat them weO 

li 



1C2 COOKEMT FROM EXPERIENCE. 

■nd make a thick baiter with cold milk. Set them in a 
pkoe to liae. Bake in muffin-ringg. 

* Water Xnfflni. 

Pat four tablespoons of yeast into a pint of lukewarm 
add a teaspoon of salt ; stir in gradually as much flour as 
malce a stiff batter, cover the pan and set it to rise in a wami 
place — over night, if for breakfast — and at eight o'clock in the 
morning, if for tea. Bake in muffin-rings. 

*Quiek HniOns. 

One quart of flour, a pint of milk, a piece of butter the aiie 
of an egg, two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar and one of soda; 
sift the flour and cream of tartar together, melt the butter in the 
milk, leaving out a little to dissolve the soda in. When the 
milk is cool, but not cold, stir in the flour, add two beaten ^^gs^ 
stir in the milk and soda last; butter muffin-ringSi fill them 
half Aill and bake on a griddle. 

Sally Lunn« Vo. L 

Three ^gs, whites and yolks beaten separately, one quart of 
milk, a quarter of a pound of butter, two tablespoonsftd of home- 
made yeast (more, if it is baker's), a tablespoon heaping fnll of 
sugar, flour enough to form a stiff batter, and a little salt. Warm 
the butter and milk together. When milk-warm, add the yeast, 
then the yolks of the eggs, then the flour, and last the whites ; 
mix well together, and let it stand to rise four or five hours; 
then beat it up, pour it into the pan or Turk's head, and bake 
three-quarters of an hour. Serve hot. 

Bally Lunn« Vo. 2. 

A quarter of a pound of butter, one quart of milk, three 
tablespoons ev3n fall of sugar, half a teacup of yeast, the yolks 
of three eggs, imd flour enough to make a stiff batter ; then the 
whites of the eggg beaten very light; when light, which will be 
in four or flve hours, beat it up, put in buttered pans, and let 
It rise three-auarters of an hour more. 



r 



BREAD, CAKES, de. 16S 

* Sally Lunn, Ho. 8. 
One pint of milk, three eggs beaten separately, one table- 
spoonfed of sugar, a teaspoonful of salt and three pints of flour, 
half a teaoup of yeast, a piece of butter the siie of an egg, 
warmed in the milk ; mix all together in the morning, if it m 
wanted for tea ; when light, stir it down, pour into the pan and 
let it rise again. If all in one, bake nearly an hour. 

Sally Lunn without Teast 
One quart of flour, half a pint of milk, two eggs beaten lights 
a piece of butter the size of an egg, a tablespoonful of sugar, a 
teaspoonful of soda and two of cream of tartar ; beat the eggs, 
add the milk, soflen the butter and stir in it, then the sugar, 
then the flour with the cream of tartar in it dry ; then beat alt 
well together, and add the soda dissolved in a teaspoonful of 
warm water ; pour into pans, bake twenty minutes. 

* Very fine Waffles, No. 1. 

One quart of sour cream, a pint of sweet cream, six eggs 
beaten light, a little salt, two quarts of flour and a large teaspoon 
even full of soda, rolled fine and dissolved in a tablespoonful of 
hot water. Beat the eggs and stir in them the cream and flour 
alternately ; beat well ; then add the soda, stir hard, and bake 
in waffle-irons. 

* Waffles, Ho. 2. 

Three pints of sour cream, seven eggs beaten separately, a tea- 
spoonful of soda and a little salt; stir flour which has been 
sifted into the yolks of the eggs, alternately with the cream, 
until all the cream is in the mixture ; add the salt, make them a 
little thicker than they are to be when baked, to allow for the 
whites, which are to be stirred in just before they are baked ; 
then add the soda dissolved in a spoonful of hot water. Bake in 
waffle-irons. Serve with cinnamon and sugar in a separate dish 

Waffles, No. 3. 
One quart of flour, a pint of sour milk, butter the size of aa 
aggi a little salt and a teaspoonful of soda. Rub the butter into 



164 COOKER T FROM BXPERIENCR 

the flour wiUi the salt in it, and mix into a batter with the milk j 
add the soda dissolved in a little hot water, and bake in shallow 
tins. 

* WaiKes with Teast, Ho. 4. 

One pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, one quart 
of milk, four eggs, and a teacup of yeast; warm the milk and 
butter together ) add, when cool, the eggs beaten very light sepa- 
rately and then together, alternately with the flour ; beat it until 
perfectly smooth, then put in the yeast and let it rise five or six 
hours. Bake in waffle-irons. 

* Rice Waffles. 

Pick and wash half a teacup of rice, boil ui^til very soft, drain 
off the water, mash the rice, add two tablespoonsful of butter. 
When cool, add three eggs beaten light, and three-quarters of a 
pound of flour ; mix with a pint of milk ; bake in waffle-iron. 

Com Bread, No. 1. 

One quart of buttermilk, a teacupful of flour* four eggs, a 
tablespoonful of butter, and a teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a 
tablespoonful of hot water, and Indian meal to the consistence 
of sponge cake. Stir the buttermilk gradually into the flour, 
beating well ; melt the butter and stir it in, add a teaspoonftd 
of salt, beat the eggs and stir them in, then stir in the oora 
meal, and last the soda. Bake in square tins. 

Com Bread, He. 2. 

One pint of Indian meal, half as much wheat flour, a table- 
spoonM of butter, a teaspoonliil of sugar, half a teaspoonful of 
soda, one of cream of tartar, a pint of milk, two eggs beaten 
light; stir all well together as above; bake in square tins half 
an hour. 

Com Bread, No. 8. 

One quart of buttermilk, four heaping tablespoonsiul of wheat 
flour, four eggs, a tablespoonful of butter, Indian meal sufficient 



BREAD, CAKES, Se. 165 

to make it the consistence of sponge cake, one teaspoonfnl of 
soda; stir the buttermilk gradually into the flour, beating it 
well, add a teaspoonful of salt, then the eggs beaten light, melt 
the butter and stir in; then beat in the Indian meal, and last the 
soda dissolved in a teaspoonful of warm water; beat up and 
bake in shallow pans. 

Com Bread,' Ho. 4. 

One pint of sour milk, one pint of corn meal, three eggs, two 
tablespoons&l of sugar, one of melted butter, and a teaspoon of 
saleratus or soda. Stir the milk gradually into the Indian meal, 
add the eggs beaten very light, then the sugar, stir in the melted 
butter, then the soda dissolved in a tablespoonfol of hot watery 
pour in shallow pans, and bake about fifteen minutes. 

Hississippi Com Bread. 

One pint of boiled rice mashed fine, one pint of com meal 
(sift the com meal), a tablespoonful of butter or lard ; mix with 
sour milk, add last a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a table- 
spoonful of warm water; bake in a pan like pound cake in a hot 
oven. ^ 

Com Dodgers. 

One quart of corn meal, a tablespoon^l of lard, two e^s, a 
teaspoon of salt; scald the meal with the lard in it with boiling 
water, cool with a little milk, add the eggs (beaten light), beat 
very hard for ten minutes, make them thin enough with cold 
milk to drop oflf the spoon and retain their shape in boiling lard ; 
serve hot; have the lard boiling hot when you drop them in. 

♦ Com Puffs. 

Scald five tablespoonsflLl of com meal ; while hot, add a piece 
of butter the size of an egg; when cool, two eggs beaten light, 
separately, eight tablespoonsful of wheat flour, two cups of milk, 
and a little salt ; bake half an hour in a hot oven in roikBd tins 
the siie of muffins. 



166 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

*Maih. 

Pat two quarts of water in a pot ; when it boils, stir in Indian 
meal until thick as you wish it, keeping it boiling all the time ; 
odd a little salt and boil an hour, stirring it frequently, oyer a 
fir9 not very hot, or it will burn. When done, pour it into ft 
deep disb When oold, out in slices half an inch thick, dust 
with flour and fry in hot lard. 

Fried Hush, Ho. 1. 

In two quarts of boiling water stir corn meal until a smooth 
mush, add a teaspoonful of salt, boil half an hour ; have hot in 
a small pan a tablespoonful each of butter and lard ; drop the 
boiling mush into the hot fat in little pats, fry a fight crisp brown 
on both sides. 

* Fried Mush, Ho. 2. 

Take a kitchen-bowl foil of cold mush, stir in it a piece of 
butter the size of a walnctt; warm the butter a little, but do not 
melt it ; then add two eggs, beaten separately and then together, 
a little salt, and drop it, a tablespoonful at a time, in hot drip- 
pings or sweet lard. Very nice for breakfast. 

Slap Jacks. 

One quart of Indian meal, scalded with boiling water, until 
the consistence of mush ; when cool, add a teacup of flour, a 
teaspoonfol of salt, a teacup of yeast, and milk to the oon* 
gistence of buckwheat cakes. Bake on a griddle 

Pone. 

One pint of milk, a pint and a half of Indian meal, three eggs 
beaten light, a piece of lard the size of an egg, and a teacup of 
yeast ; mix all together and set in a warm |)lace to rise. When 
light, pour it in a buttered pan and bake nearly f r quite an hour 
ID a moderate oven. 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS, Aa 



Bemarks on Pastry and 

To make pastrj successfully, in the first place use only the 
best flour, and sweet fresh butter, and have a cool place to make 
it in. It is almost impossible to make puff paste in warm 
weather. If you attempt it, have the butter in ice and use ice- 
cold water to mix the crust with ; a marble slab is the best pie- 
board, but one made of pine answers very well. Have the flour 
sifted before you use it, and see that eyerything is in readiness 
for you before you commence ; make the crust and set it in a 
tool place before the last rolling, whilst the filling for your pud- 
lings or pies is being prepared. See that the oven is hot before 
you put your pastry in ; if not hot enough, the crust will not 
rise, and all your trouble will be in vain ; if you are inexperi- 
enced, try it by baking a little piece of the paste ; if it rises 
quickly, put in your pies. It is better to see that the oven is 
hot before you commence filling your pies, as they are not so nice 
if left to stand ; they should be put in as soon as the last touch 
is given to them. When the pies come out of the oven, stand 
them on a waiter or board until cool ; then wipe off the bottoms 
of the pie-dishes, and set them away in a dry, cool place, never 
in the cellar. Pie crust that is set away in the cellar loses all 
its crispness and becomes soft and moist. 

Very good pie-crust may be made with two-thirds lard and 
one-third butter, and some persons use only lard ; but the crust 
is much better to be made partly with butter ; a very good sub- 
stitute for butter is beef drippings properly prepared, or suet 
from the kidney part of the beef rendered out, and melted to- 
gether with the same quantity of lard ; then set away in a cool 

plam and used as wanted. 

7) 



«i«f 



i«8 COOKER T FROM EXPERIENCE. 

Bfttter-paddings ahoold be entirely fiee from lumps. To uumrt 
ihii, fint beftt the eggs very ligbt, ihen stir the flour into them. 
When thoroughly mixed, add the milk grsduaUy, beating all the 
time; seald your pudding eloths or bags, wring them very dry, 
dust the inside with flour, pour in the pudding, and drop them 
into boiling water, and keep the water boiling all the time until 
the pudding ib done^ or it will not be light. 

Plum-puddings when boiled and huLg in a dry, oool plaoe 
will keep for months ; let them oool on a dish or drainer, and 
hang them in the cloths they were boiled in. When wanted, 
drop them into a pot or kettle of boiling water, and continue to 
boil one hour. This will only answer for the reoipe marked with 
a star. All kinds of dried fruit should be prepared for use the 
day before it is wanted — ^raisins seeded, currants washed and 
dried, and citron and candied orange or lemon peel cut in strips 

* Plain Pie-Crust 

Sift a quart of flour into a pan, cut into it half a pound of 
!ard and a quarter of a pound of butter, add a saltspoonfrd of 
salt, and cold water to foim a dough ; stir it together with a 
knife, using your hands as little as possible ; flour the pie-board 
and roll it out; dust it with flour, and roll out again; repeat 
this again until you have rolled it out four times ; set it aside 
for half an hour, roll out again, and use as required. Use as 
litde flour as possible in rolling out. 

Omst for Apple Dumplings and Pot-pie. 

For this crust use Hooker's prepared superfine flour, one oo£ 
feecup cf rich milk, with one egg beaten in it, and flour to roll 
out stirred in]; the same for Pot-pie ; no shortening needed — 
for boiled apple dumplings only — the baked require a richer 
paste. 

* Puff Paste. 

Weigh and sift one pound of flour, and divide it evenly in two 
parts*; cut a poiuK^ of the best butter into quarters ; cut a quar- 



FASTRT, FUDDmOS, Sc. leO 

ter of the butter into one part of the flour, reserving the other 
part to roll in with the batter ; mix in with a knife a tumbler 
of eold water, flour your pie-board with some of that you re- 
served, turn the paste on it, dust with flour, and roll out half an 
inch in thiekness; dust i^ain with flour, fold up your paste and 
roll out again ; cut on this another quarter of the butter, dust 
with flour, fold over, and roll out ; repeat this again^ and pro- 
ceed thus until all the butter is rolled in, rolling out twice for 
each quarter of a pound of butter, making eight times in all ; 
When the crust is rolled out for the last time, sprinkle it again 
with flour, and cut it in strips the width of your hand ; lay these 
on one another, and cut the pile in squares, and use as required. 
The flour you reserved should nearly all be used in the rolling 
of the paste, leaving very little to roll out in the shapes you 
wish it. This crust requires a hot oven, and will rise two inches 
in height if prepared properly. Use no salt but what is in the 
butter. 

* Half-puflT Paste fbr Fruit Pies. 

Sift one pound of flour into your paste-bowl, cut in it a quarter 
of a pound of lard, add a small pinch of salt, mix to a dough 
with cold water, flour your pastry-slab or pie-board, turn out the 
paste, roll it out half an inch thick, sprinkle lightly with flour 
and roll again ; lay on it half a pound of butter, fold the cnurt 
over it, roll out as before, dust %htly with flour, fold and roll it 
again ; repeat this once more ; set aside in a cool place for lialf 
an hour, give it another roll, and it is ready for use. 

Trench Way. 

Put one pound of flour on your pastry-board, with two ounces 
of butter; rub well together with your hands, make a hole in 
the centre, in which put the yolk of an egg and the juice of a 
lemon, mix with cold water, roll it out about half an inch thick, 
lay on it half a pound of butter, fold the crust over, flour it a 
little and roll out thin ; repeat this twice ; set it aside for a 
quarter of an houTi give it another roll, and it is ready for use 



ITO COOKER T FROM BXPERIENCB. 

French Pnff Paste. 
Weigh and sift & pound of flour, put it in a wooden bowl, 
make a hole in the centre and put in the yolk of an egg and tiie 
juice of a lemon, mix to a paste with very cold water (a little 
more than half a pint), flour jour paste-board and turn the 
paste on it, work it lightly into a lump, and let it stand a few 
minutes ; hare ready a pound of butter, lay it on the centie of 
the paste, bring the edges round over the top of the butter to 
eoTcr it completely, sprinkle a little flour over and roll out half 
an inch in thickness ; dust with flour, fold the crust oyer on 
both sides and across the ends, making it into a small square ; 
roll out again to half an inch in thickness, sprinkle lightly with 
flour, fold again and proceed as before, until you roll it six times 
in all ; then set it away for an hour in a cool place, after which 
roll it out once more, and it is fit for use. Be careful that yon 
use Tery little additional flour in rolling out. 

English Pnff Paste. 
Sift and weigh a pound and a quarter of flne flour, cut in it 
half a pound of fresh butter, and mix it with half a pint of cold 
spring-water ; set it by for a quarter of an hour, then roll it out 
thin, lay on it three-quarters of a pound more of butter, throw 
on it a little flour, fold over and roll out thin ; repeat this three 
times, and set it in a cool place for an hour, when it will be 
ready for use. 

Snet Shortening for Pies. 
Ohop a pound «»f fresh beef suet, pick out all the strings, put 
it in a stew-pan with a pound of sweet lard, melt them together ; 
when the suet is entirely melted, strain it through a fine tin 
strainer and set away in a cold place, and use it in the place of 
butter for plain pie-crust. 

Snet Cmst for Dnmplings. 

Pick and chop half a pound of beef suet, add to it one pound 
and a quarter of fiour, a little salt and half a pint of milk or 
water; beat it well with th* rolling-pin, and roll out half an 

'y thick 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS, die. 171 

English Paste for Meat and Game Pies. 

Sift two pounds of fine flour, out in it a pound and a half of 
fresh butter, cutting and stirring with a knife until the butter is 
well through the flour ; stir in the yolks of three eggs, and beat 
well together with a spoon ; then add nearly a pint of very oold 
^ wateri roll it out three times, and it is ready for use. 

* Shells for Preserved Fruit. 

: Make a pound of puff paste orust, roll it out a quarter of an 

, inch in thickness, cut it out the size of the top of a tumbler, 

I* 

cut a second piece the same size with a smaller cutter, take out 
the centre of the second one, wet the edge of the first, and lay on 
it the ring you have cut ; proceed as before until you have as 
many as you need, lay them on a tin or baking-pan, and bake 
them in a quick oven about fifteen minutes. When oold, fiU 
with any small preserved fruit. 

* Tol-au-vent 

Make a pound of puff paste crust, after rolling it the 
seventh time; let it stand half an hour, then roll again 
half an inch in thickness, and cut out an oval shape of 
any sice you wish ; lay it in the pan or tin you will bake it on, 
then roll out and cut three more shapes the same size and thick- 
ness as the first, cut the centre from each piece, leaving an edge 
of half an inch, wet the bottom crust, which is the first you cut, 
and lay one of the rings on it, then wet the ring and lay on if 
another, and the same with the third \ bake in a quick oven, and 
oover with thick paper when a light brown ; be careful not to 
remove it from the oven until entirely done or the orust will 
fidl; for the lid, roll out an oval the same as the first, and bake 
en a separate tin ; from the trimmings of the crust, out out five 
er six leaves, arrange them in the form of a flower or star on a 
pie-dish, bake, and lay on the lid when it is baked. If this is 
used for fruit, it must be oold ; if for oysters or game, it is to be 
served hot, and may be baked the day before it is wanted and 
wanned again in the oven 



172 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

Vol-au-vent, Ho. 3. 

Have ready very fine puff paste, roll it out the third of an 
inoh in thickness, out it in shapes, either oval, round or square, 
the first and largest cake to be left whole ; from the centre of all 
the others out a round piece the siie of a small muffin-ring, and 
diminish the siEO of the cakes until you have the top one a siie 
larger than the hole cut from the centre , this one must also be 
left whole. Bake each one separately on flat tins in a quick 
oven. When all are baked, take them carefully from the tins, 
brush each one over with the beaten white of egg, lay them on 
each other to form a pyramid, fill the centre with stewed oysters 
or game, stewed with cream gravy ] put on the lid, which may 
be ornamented with a flower of baked paste, and serve. Or for 
a dessert, fill the vol-au-vent with ripe strawberries sprinkled 
ihiokly with sugar or any small preserved fruit. 

* Stewed Apple for Tol-au-vent. 

Pare, core and quarter ten pippins or other tart apples ; make 
a syrup of a pound of sifted sugar and a pint of water ; boil and 
skim it, lay the apples in it a few pieces at a time, and boil them 
until clear ; take them out with a perforated skimmer as they 
are done, and lay them in a deep dish ; put in more apples and 
proceed as before until all are done ; slice a lemon and add to 
the syrup, also a glass of wine ; boil until a rich syrup, pour over 
the apples, and set them away to cool. When perfectly cold, 
fill the crust with the apples, put on the lid, and dust powdered 
sugar over it. This should not be done until just before dinner, 
if wanted for dessert. 

* Apple Pie, Vo. 1. 
Pare, core and slice very thin juicy, tart apples, line a pie-dish 
with half puff paste, put in a layer of apples and one of sugar 
until the dish is full, heaping it up a little in the middle ; cover 
the top with sugar, and break over the apples quince-jelly, cover 
with crust, and bake until the apples are tender ; try them 
through the openings in the upper crust 



PASTRY, rVDDlNOS, &c. 173 

* Apple Pie, Vo. 2. 

Pare^ oore and slice tart juicy apples, stew them in as little 
water as possible, rub them through a cullender, add a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, sugar to your taste, and half the peel 
of a fresh lemon grated ; bake between two crusts, half puff paste. 

♦ Pot Apple Pie. 

Prepare a nice crust, butter the inside of a round pot, line it 
with the crust, pare, quarter and core as many apples as will 
nearly fill the pot, put a layer in the bottom, season with sugar, 
cinnamon and a few lumps of butter; put another layer of 
apples seasoned as before, until the apples are all in ; mix in a 
bowl a coffeecup of molasses and two of water, pour over the 
apples, and cover with a orust half an inch thick, — leaving an 
opening out with your knife across the top both ways,— cover 
elosely, and bake in the oven an hour and a half, or until the 
apples are tender, which you can ascertain by trying them with 
a fork through the opening in the top. When done, leave off 
Uie lid of the pot a few minutes, and shut up the oven until the 
top orust begins to brown \ then take out and serve. 



A Very Oood Apple 

Take a large coffeecup full of light bread doughy work in it a 
piece of butter the size of an e^; fill a deep dish with apples 
slioed thin, put a little water on them, roll out the crust just to 
oover the dish, and bake until the apples are perfectly soft; then 
with a knife lift the crust off, lay it upside down on a plate a 
little larger than the orust; mash the apples with the back of a 
spoon in the dish they were baked in, put a piece of butter in 
them aa large as a nutmeg, sugar to your taste; stir well 
together, spread them on the crust, grate nutmeg over the top, 
and you have a very nice pie. Better if eaten with cream. 

♦ Cherry Pie. 

Take out the pits, and stew them a few minutes, with plenty 
of sugar ; line a pie-dish with good crust, fill it with the cherries. 



174 COOKERY FROM EJ^ERIBNCE, 

cover witb crast and bake about half an boor. This is to Im 
regulated always by tbe beat of the oven. A pie may be bmked 
in fifteen minutes if put in a bot oven, or in a oooler one will 
take twenty minutes or balf an bour. 



Plorenoe Cream Pie. 

Put in a sauce-pan one cup of water and one of sugar, bring 
to a boil and stir in a tablespoonful of corn-starch mixed in ft 
little cold water ; stir it over the fire until it thickens ; grate the 
rinds of two lemons, take all the pulp o£P them and chop them 
fine, picking out the seeds ; add two beaten yolks of eggs t«i the 
corn-starch, then the rind and chopped lemon ; bake in a orast, 
and when done, cover with a meringue of the whites of the eggs 
and powdered sugar, beaten together to a stiff froth, and brown 
slightly in a quick oven. This makes one large pie. 

Lemon Pie, Ho. 1. 

One tablespoonful of butter, the same of flour heaping fill], 
one cup of sugar, the same of cold warier, two eggs, and the rind 
and juice of one lemon. Warm the butter, beat it with the 
sugar, add the eggs, then the flour ; beat well together, and add 
the lemon, and last the water. Bake in a crust ; make a me- 
ringue of the whites of three eggs and powdered sugar, spread 
it on the top, and brown slightly in the oven. 

* Lemon Pie, Ho. 2. 

The juice and grated rind of one large lemon, one cup of water, 

one cup of sugar, a tablespoonful of corn-starch, and a piece of 

butter the size of an egg ; boil the water, wet the corn-starch 

and stir it in ; when it boils again, pour it on the sugar and 

utter ; after ii cools, add the lemon and egg. Bake in a omst 

* Peach Pie, No. 1. 

Make a crust half puff paste, cover your pie-dishes; have 
ready pared and Quartered ripe peaches, put a layer of them in 
ilie dish; sprinkle tSi<<:»^ty wi<^ (irood brown sugar, put another 



PA8TBT, PUDDINQS, Ac 175 

lAjei of peaches and sugar until the dish is Ml, eover the top 
with sugar, roll out another crust, double it oyer and cut a row 
of slUs through the centre ) wet the edge of the lower crust, 
coyer it with the upper crust, press lightly on the edges, trim il 
around close to the dish with a knife dipped in flour, and bake 
in a quick oyen half or three-quarters of an hour. All firuit or 
cummer pies should be eaten the day they are baked. 



* Peach Pie, Ho. S. 

Pare and slice ripe peaches, line a pie-dish with crust, put in 
a layer of peaches, sprinkle thickly with sugar ; then another 
layer of peaches and sugar, until your dish is full ; heap it up 
in the middle, put plenty of sugar on the top, and coyer with 
orust and bake. 

Another way is to pare the peaches, lay them in a deep dish 
whole, coyer thickly with sugar, and put a top crust, but none 
under the peaches, and bake them in a quick oyen. Pie-crust 
requires a much hotter oyen than bread. 

♦ Plum Pie. 

Plums require to be cooked half an hour, with plenty of sugar, 
to make them fit for a pie. When prepared thus, put them 
between two crusts and bake. 



Stone and chop a large ooffeecup of raisins, measure the same 
quantity of sugar, the same of cold water, one and a half cups 
of molasses, a heaping tablespoonful of flour, and the rind and 
juice of two lemons ; stir the flour into the sugar, then add the 
molasses, water, lemons, and last the raisins. Bake between 
two crusts. 

« Washington Pie. 

Half a pound of butter, the same of sugar, the same of flour, 
and flye eggs. Stir the sugar and butter to a cream, add the 
yolks of the eggs beaten light, beat the whites of the eggs to a 



178 COOKER T FROM EXPERIENCE. 

B(iif froth, And add them alternately with the flour; flavor witb 
a glass of wine, the peel of half a lemon grated, and a littk 
nutmeg; bake in two eakes in jelly-eake tins, cover one of the 
cakes with raspbeny jam or preserved raspberries half an inob 
thick, lay the other cake on this, and sift sngar over the top ; 
serve cold for desert and cut like pie. 

* Mince Meat 

Two pounds of cold roast beef without any &t, from the best 
part of a sirloin, chop as fine as possible ; two pounds of beef 
sue^ shred and chopped very fine, pick out all the strings as you 
shred it and before you weigh it Put these in a deep stone 
pot, season with pepper and salt, about a teaspoonfnl of salt and 
half a saltspoon of pepper. Pare, quarter and core six pounds 
of pippin or other tart, juicy apples, chop them very fine and 
stir them through the meat and suet Have ready two poupds 
of the best raisins seeded, the same of dried currants wished 
and dried, and one pound of citron cut in small pieces ; add 
these to the apples and meat, mix them well, and season with 
two heaping tablespoons of powdered doves, the same of cinna- 
mon, one of ground allspice, one of ground mace not so full as 
the others, one small nutmeg grated, the rind and juice of three 
fine large oranges (the rind grated) ; stir these all together, and 
add three pounds of light brown sugar, three pints of good 
cooking wine, a pint of good brandy, and as much sweet cider 
as will make it as juicy as you wish. Stir all well together and 
cover olosely. It improves by keeping, and if protected firom 
the air, will keep until warm weather. 

* Brunswiek Tart> 

Make a crust as for vol-au-vent ; pare and core six or eight 
pippins or other juicy tart apples ; put them in a preserving^ 
kettle with a coffeecup of sifted sugar, the same of hot water, a 
gill of wine, and a small piece of lemon-peel ; simmer slowly 
nntil the apples are tender When cold, take them out of the 



PA8TBT, PUDDINQ8, Ac. VTI 

kettle with % perforated skimmer^ and lay them in the enut ; 
make a custard of a pint of new milk, a quarter of a pound of 
sugar, the yolks of six eggs and the whites of three; stir in a 
fiurina boiler until it begins to thicken, then add a coffeecup of 
cream, and if not sweet enough, a little more sugar ; stir until 
as thick as rich cream. When cold, pour it over the apples. 
Flavor with six peach leaves tied in a bunch, and boOed a few 
minutes in the custard. When sufficiently flavored, take them 
out. 

* Cranberry Tart 

Pick and wash a quart of cranberries, put them over the fire 
in a preserving-kettle with a pint of water. When they begin 
to break, mash them with a potato-masher, and add a pound and 
1 quarter of white or light-brown sugar, simmer them about ten 
or fifteen minutes, stirring them frequently. When done, poui 
them out to cool, make a puff paste crust, roll it out one-third of 
in inch in thioknoss, cover your pie-dishes, trim them round, 
notoh the edges, and prick the bottom part only with a fork, and 
bake them in a quick oven ; fill them with the cranberries just 
before they are wanted. Any other stewed firuit or sweetmeat 
may be used instead of the cranberries. 

* A French Tart 

Boll out puff paste, cover a pie-dish with it, trim rouna and 
noteh the edge ; fill the crust with any small preserved fruits, 
jam or marmalade; cut out an ornament of leaves from the 
erust, lay it on the t^p, and bake half an hour in a quick oven. 

* Rhubarb Tart 

Peel and cut In pieces a couple of dozen stalks of rhubarb^ 
pour boiling waO over it, drain it and put it over the fire in a 
preserving-kettle, with sugar enough to sweeten it ; stew it about 
ten minutes (do not add any water), take it from the fire and 
stir in the grated rind of a lemon ; make a crust, line your pie- 
dishes with it, fill them with the fru'.t, cross the top with strips 
12 



178 COOKEBT FROM EXPERIENCE. 

of paste lialf an inch wide, bake in a qoiek oren twenty minnCefli 
or until the ernst b thoroughly done. Goosebeny tarts may be 
made in the same way. 

* Boiled Apple DnmpUng. 

One pound of Heeker'a superfine prepared flour, a tabl»> 
spoonfiil of butter or lard, a little salt and oold water en ndlk 
enough for a stiff dough; roll it out and out it in as many pieees 
as you have apples; pare and eore tart apples; plaoe in the 
eentre of the orust, bring the eomen up over the apple, elose 
it oyer the top, tie each one in a square of muslin ; haTe a pot 
of boiling water, drop them in ; boil three-quarters of an hour, 
or untU the apple is tender, and serve with butter, sugar and 



* Baked Apple Dumpling. 

Pare and eore fine tart apples, make a good plain pie-enut, 
roll it out, and cut it in as many pieces as you have apples; put 
a spoonful of sugar in the middle of each piece of crust, sprinkle 
thickly with grated nutmeg and cinnamon, lay the apple on the 
sugar, bring the comers of the crust up over the top of the apple 
and close it ; butter a deep baking-dish, lay the apples in it as close 
together as you can put them ; stir to a cream half a pound of 
sugar and a quarter of a pound of butter, lay an equal portion 
of this on the top of every dumpling, pour cold water round 
them until it reaches the sauce, pu£ them in the oven, and bake 
slowly nearly two hours. Before putting them in the oven, 
sprinkle nutmeg and cinnamon over the top on the sauoe. 
These are very fine, and need no other sauce than what they are 
baked in. Send them to table in the dish they were baked in 
Very nice deep pudding-dishes come for this purpose. 

Almond Pudding. 

Blanch and dry six ounces of sweet and half an ounce of 
bitter almonds ; pound them fine in a mortar, with two table- 
spoonsftd of rose-water added gradually as you pound them ; 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS, ike. 179 

ttir to a cream six oanoes of butter and half a pound of pow<« 
dered sugar, add to it a little grated lemon-peel, a gill of rioh 
eream, four eggs beaten separately and then together, and the 
almond paste, and bake in puff paste. 

* Apple Pudding, Ho. 1. 

Ohop a quarter of a pound of beef suet very fine, and stir it 
through half a pound of flour; add a little salt; when well 
mixed, make a hole in the middle, break an egg in it, stir it 
round a little, and add as much cold water as will make a stiff 
paste ; roll it out two or three times ; butter a pudding-mould 
or basin, line it with the crust, fill it with cut apples, seasoned 
with sugar, cinnamon and a little nutmeg ; cover with crust very 
closely, tie it up in a thick pudding-cloth and boil it in a pot of 
water an hour and three-quarters. To be eaten with cream. 
Have the water boiling when you put the pudding in. 

* Apple Pudding, No. 2. 

Bring to a boil a pint of milk, stir in half a pint of Indian 
meal| one teacup of molasses, a little salt; pare and core and cut 
in thin slices six apples, butter a pudding-dish, scatter the apples 
in it, pour over the milk and other ingredients, stir it togetheri 
and bake in a quick oven about three-quarters of an hour. This 
is a very nice pudding. 

* Apple Pudding, Ho. 8. 

Peel, core and out in quarters tart juicy apples, and stew them 
in as little water as possible, press them through a cullender, and 
to one quart of the stewed apple add sugar to your taste, a salt- 
spoonAil of cinnamon, the same of grated nutmeg, two table- 
spoontfnl of brandy, four eggs beaten light, and a piece of butter 
the siie of an egg melted and stirred in ; beat all well together^ 
and bake in orust. 

Baked Floor Pudding, Ho 1. 
Beat three eggs very light, stir in them a pint of flour with 
a small teaspoonful and a half of cream of tarter sifted in it^ add 



OOOKEhT FRK.M EXPERIENCE, 

ft tablespoonful of melted butter, & half teacup of sugar, and a 
ooffeecup of buttermilk or sweet milk, with a small teaspoon of 
soda dissolved in it. Bake half an hour in a Turk's head, and 
serre hot with wine-sauce. 

* Baked Flour Pudding, Vo. 3. 
Five eggs beaten separately yery light, and then together, 
nine tablespoonsful of flour, measured first, and then sifted, a 
little salt, and a quart of milk ; mix the flour anu milk into the 
beaten eggs. Bake half an hour in a buttered pudding-dish. 

* Baked Indian Pudding. 

Boil a pint of milk, and pour it gradually on a large teaeup 
of Indian meal, stirring all the time ; oool it, and add three eggs 
beaten light, a tablespoonful of flour, half a cup of sugar, half a 
teaspoonful of ginger, one of cinnamon, a little salt, and a pint 
more milk, cold. Bake in a buttered pudding>dish an hour and 
a half 

Black Pudding 

Six eggs, one pint of molasses, two-thirds of a cup of sugar, 
one cup of flour, a tablespoon^! of butter, a half of a nutmeg 
grated, and a teaspoonful of soda. Beat the eggs, butter and 
sugar together, dissolve the spda in a tablespoonful of hot watery 
and beat it into the molasses until it foams ; add all together, beat 
well, and boil one hour in a pudding-mould, cloth or bag. 
Serve with winesauce. 

* Boiled Batter Pudding. 

Beat three eggs very light, separately and then together ; add 
to them a quarter of a pound of flour and a pinch of salt \ when 
perfectly smooth, stir in half a pint of milk ; butter a mould, 
pour the pudding in, tie it tightly over the top with a pudding- 
cloth, put it in a pot of boiling water, and boil one hour and a 
quarter, or it may be boiled in a pudding-bag, scald the bag, 
wring it very tight, dust the inside with flour and pour the 
pudding in; boil it one hour in a bag. Make double the 
quantity if you wish a large pudding. Serve with wine-^sauee. 



HP! 

2.Jf5!f 



I: ! 



il 



mil 



PASTRY, PUDDIiras, de. 181 

Boiled Indian Pudding. 

Boil a quart of new milk, and stir in Indian meal to make a 
stiiF batter } add a teaspoonful of salt, a teacup of chopped suet^ 
a tablespoonful of sugar or molasses, and two eggs beaten ligbt ; 
beat all well together, add a coffeecup of seeded raisins if liked, 
stir through them a tablespoonful of flour, scald your pudding* 
bag, wring it as dry as possible, dust it inside with flour, pour in 
the pudding, and toil it two hours. Serve with syrup-molasses 
eream and sugar, or wine-sauce. 

Bread and Apple Pudding. 

Out thin slices of bread, butter them, lay a layer of them in 
the bottom of a pudding-dish, spread a thick layer of chopped 
apple over them, season with sugar, cinnamon and grated nutmeg, 
then another layer of bread and butter, apples, &c., until your 
dish is full ; bread and butter on the top, pour over a teacup of 
molasses and water, and bake three-quarters of an hour. Serve 
with sauce. 

* Bread and Butter Pudding. 

Beat the yolks of eight eggs, add them gradually to a quart 
of milk, sweeten to your taste, flavor with peach- water or vanilla 
(a teaspoon^l of either will be sufficient). Cut slices of bread 
half an inch thick, butter both sides, cut in squares, and cover 
with them the bottom and sides of a pudding-dish, pour the cus- 
tard over them, sprinkle thickly over the top grated nutmeg and 
powdered cinnamon ; let it stand ten or fifteen minutes, then 
bake about twenty minutes in a hot oven. This pudding requires 
close watching. It should be the thickness of boiled custard 
when done. As soon as the custard commences to thicken the 
least bit on the sides of the dish, it is done, and a minute longer 
will spoil it. 

Cabinet Pudding. 

Beat the yolks and whites of three eggs separately, add to the 
yolks a quarter of a pint of milk, stir these well together ; add 
two ouncejs of coffiee-sugar and the third of a small nutmeg 



182 OOOKEB T FROM EXPERIENCE. 

gntedj ihen stir in four ounces of flour and beat to a smoodi 
batter ; by degrees stir in seven ounoes of beef suet, mineed ai 
fine as possible, and three ounces of bread crumbs ; mix all well 
together at least half an hour before you put the pudding in the 
pot ; pour into an earthenware pudding-mould, which you have 
well buttered ; tie a pudding-cloth over it very tightly, put it 
into a pot of boiling water and boil three hours. If you please, 
you may add to this a pound of raisins, stoned and out in half, 
and a little grated lemon peel, and you have a very good plum 
pudding. To be eaten with wineHMiuee. 

* Cable Pudding. 

Boil half a pint of milk with a few strips of lemon-peel in h 
to flavor, mix to a paste a dessertspoonful of com starch with a 
little of the milk, which you must leave out of the half-pint for 
the purpose, add to it a beaten egg, and when the milk boils, 
stir the corn starch in, boil a minute or two, and set aside to 
cool. Beat together three tablespoonsful of melted butter, one 
cup of powdered sugar, and the yolks of two eggs. When light, 
add a pint of sifted flour, with two teaspoons even ftdl of eream 
of tartar mixed through it, and last a teacup of milk with an 
even teaspoon of soda dissolved in it. Bake in jelly-cake tins 
siie of a dinner-plate, divide the quantity evenly in two cakes, 
bake a nice brown in a quick oven, spread the custard between 
the cakes, and over the top pour and shape nicely a mdringue, 
made with the whites of three eggs beaten with three table> 
spoonsftd of powdered sugar, brown slighUy in the oven, an< 
serve cold. 



*Cake 

Beat flve eggs very light; stir to a cream three cups of sugar 
and one of butter ; add half a nutmeg grated, then the eggs, 
four cups of flour with two teaspoonsful of eream of tartar sifted 
through it, and a cup of milk with a teaspoonfol of soda dis- 
solved in it; beat well together. Have ready a quart of whor> 
tleberries, raspberries or currants; put in a buttered pudding- 
dish a kyer of the cake and one of the fruit alternately until aU 



PASTRY, FUDDnsrOSj Ac 188 

ire in ; liave a layer of oake on the top. Bake one hour in a 
quick oven, cover witli thick paper when brown on top, and 
serve with wine-sauce. 

* Cocoanut Pudding. 

One large cocoanut grated, the whites of twelve eggs beaten 
very light, one pound of powdered sugar, three-quarters of a 
pound of butter, a glass of brandy and one of wine. Stir the 
butter and sugar to a cream, add the wine and brandy^ then tht 
grated cocoanut alternately with the eggs. Bake in pie-dish 
lined with puff paste crust; notch the edges. See Cocoanut 
Custard^ p. 203. 

College Puddings. 

Beat four eggs separately and then together ; add to them two 
ounces of flour, two tablespoonsful of milk, half a small nutmeg 
grated, half a teaspoonful of ginger and a quarter of a pound of 
sugar ; beat all together. Chop very fine six ounces of suet and 
stir it in the pudding ; add six ounces of currants, washed and 
dried, an ounce of candied orange-peel, cut fine, or the same of 
citron, and a glass of brandy; beat well together, and bake 
them, in patty-pans or cups, twenty minutes in a quick oven« 
Serve with wine-sauce. 

Com Starch Pudding, Ho. 1. 
Boil one quart of milk, stir in it three tablespoonsfhl of com 
starch mixed in a little cold water, boil five minutes, take it from 
the fire, add four tablespoons of sugar, yolks of five eggs beaten, 
and a little pinch of salt ; butter a pudding-dish, and pour in the 
pudding ; bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. Make a mi^ringue 
of the whites of the eggs beaten with powdered sugar. When 
the pudding is baxed, pour the meringue over the top, shape it 
with a spoon, and brown slightly. 

* Com Starch Pudding, Ho. 2. 

One large tecump of corn starch mixed smoothly in cold water, 
stir ihis into one and a half pints of boiling water, and boil it 



184 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

ten minutes, or until it is dear like star:h, remove it from the 
fire, and stir into it two large coffeecw^ of white sugar, the juice 
and grated rind of a large lemon, and the beaten yolks of three 
eggs. Make a crust of paste and bake it as if for stewed fruit, 
spread the corn starch evenly over the crust, beat the whites of 
the eggs with powdered sugar, making a meringue as directed 
above ; spread over the top of the puddings and brown slightly 



* Cottage 

A quarter of a pound of butter and two cups of sugar creamed 
together ; add two eggs beaten light, a quart of flour, with two 
teaspoonsful of creain of tartar sifted through it, and two oapv 
of milk with a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it. Bake half 
an hour in a buttered pudding-dish. Serve with wioe-eauee. 

* Sice Cups. 
Grind in a mill two teacups of rice ; boil three pints of new 
milk ] mix the ground rice with a teacup of cold water, stir it in 
the milk ; put all together in a farina-kettle, stir over the fire 
until it is thick and the rice is thoroughly cooked; sweeten to 
your taste, flavor with peach-water or vanilla, and pour into cups 
or moulds which have been wet with cold milk. When cold 
and solid, turn them out ; put on the ^p of each form some 
small preserved fruit, and serve with a thin boiled oustard, er 
cream. 

English Pudding. 

Beat six e^ veiy light, add to them two tablespoons of flomr 
and a small teacup of bread crumbs, two tablespoons heaping 
full of sugar, a pound of suet shred fine or chopped, a pound of 
toned raisins, a small tablespoon of allspice, the same of cinna- 
mon — all to be well mixed together and boiled in a pudding- 
cloth or bag three hours. To be eaten with wine-sauce. 

Farina Pudding. 

One quart of milk boiled, and thickened with farina until ■ 
stick will stand up in it; when a little cool, stir in butter Uie 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS, At. 186 

iiie of an egg^ and four eggs beaten light ; bake in a battered 
pudding-dish three-quarters of an hour. Eaten oold with 
oream. 

* Gelatine Pudding. 

Half a box cf gelatine dissolved in a large half-pint of boiling 
water ; when oool, stir in two teacups of sugar and the juioe of 
two lemons ; beat the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth and add 
them to the gelatine whilst it is warm ; beat all together tho- 
roughly, pour into a mould and set on the ioe. Make a custard 
with the yolks of the eggs, a quart of milk and sugar to your 
taste ] boil in a farina-kettle until it begins to thicken, flavor 
with vanilla ; when the mould is stiff, turn it out into a glass 
dish^ pour the custard round it and serve. 

Hartford Pudding. 

One cup of bread crumbs finely grated, one of chopped suet, 
one of brown sugar, one of sifted flour, one of currants washed 
and dried, one of milk, a teaspoonful of soda, one of salt, and a 
half of a grated nutmeg. Mix together the crumbs, suet, sugar, 
flour, nutmeg, salt and currants, dissolve the soda in the cup of 
milk, add it last, tie up in a pudding-cloth and boil four hours. 
Serve with wine-sauce. 

* Hasty Pudding. 

Beat the yolks of two eggs, and stir them into a quart of 
milk, with a pinch of salt, set the milk over the fire, and when 
it comes to a boil, stir in dry flour, sifting it through your fingers 
until you have it as thick as mush, stirring all the time, and 
keeping it boiling all the time. When thick enough, it is done. 
To be eaten with butter and syrup, and can be made during 
dinner. 

* Hiawatha Pudding. 
Four eggs, the weight of three in Indian meal, half a pound 
of sugar, and a quarter of a pound of butter stirred to a oream. 
Beat ih eggs very light and add them, then the Indian meal, 



186 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

ftnd Uuitly the juioe and grated rind of one lemon ; bake from 
half an hoar to three-quarters in a qniok oven. When it ig 
done, spread corrant-jelly over the top and serye* 



Pudding, Ho. 1. 

Four tablespoonsf ul of oorn meal, a quart of milk boiled, half 
a teaoup of molasses, three eggs, butter half the siie of an egg, 
half a teaspoonful of ginger, a little nutmeg ; stir all these in- 
gredients together in a large bowl with the milk, let them boQ 
three minutes, stirring all the time, pour into a buttered pudding- 
dish, and bake three-quarters of an hour. 

Indian Pudding, Ho. 8. 

Three pints of milk, one of oorn meal, butter the siie of an 
egg, eight eggs, half a pound of raisins seeded, half a oup of 
powdered sugar, a little cinnamon and nutmeg. Boil the milk 
and pour it over the oorn meal, stir in the butter. When oool, 
add the eggs and a pinoh of salt, then sugar and spioe, and last 
the raisins. Bake nearly an hour in a moderate oven. 



Pudding, Vo. 3. 

Pour three pints of boiling milk on seven tablespoonsful of 
Indian meal, stir in half a pound of butter, a teacup of sugar, 
four beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of rose water, the same of 
brandy, and the grated rind of a lemon ; butter a pudding-dish, 
pour it in, and bake about three-quarters of an hour in a quiok 
oyen. 

Indian Pudding, Vo. 4. 

Boil one quart of milk, stir in it half a cup of butter, pour this 
over three-quarters of a cup of Indian meal, beat it smooth, and 
add one and a half cups cf light-brown sugar, two eggs beaten 
light (add only the yolks), a little grated nutmeg, a pinoh of 
einnamon, a little salt, then the whites of the eggs beaten to a 
stiff ftoth, and a small teaspoon of soda dissolved in a spoonful 
•f warm water Bake in a buttered pudding-dish half an hour. 



FASTRT, PUDDINGS, Ac 181 

Indian Pudding, No. 5. 
A pint of milk, two eggs, three tablespoons of Indian meal 
half a small teacup of molasses, butter half the size of an egg 
put the milk in a sauce-pan, scald it, add the Indian meal, and 
boil it three minutes^ stir in the butter, cool it a few minutes, 
then add the molasses with a third of a teaspoon of soda stirred 
in it until it foams, then add the eggs well beaten, and the fol- 
lowilig spioes : half a teaspoon of ginger, a third of a teaspoon 
of cinnamon, the same of allspice and cloves, and a small pinch 
of salt; butter a pudding-dish, pour it in, and bake in a mode 
rate oven two and a quarter hours. It can be eaten with cream 
or alone. 

Indian Pudding, No. 6. 

Six tablespoons of Indian meal and two of wheat flour, mix 
them well together with a little cold milk, stir them into a pinb 
of new milk ; boil three minutes , add a piece of butter the size 
of an egg, cinnamon and ginger to your taste. When cool, stir 
in one and a half cups of molasses, a teaspoon and a half of soda, 
and two eggs beaten light. Bake in a buttered pudding-dish. 

Indian Pudding, No. 7. 

One pint of com meal and a teacup of wheat flour, rub a piece 
of butter the size of an egg through it, add a teacup of mo- 
lasses, a pint and a half of buttermilk, a teaspoon of saleratus or 
soda, dissolved in as little warm water as possible ; stir all to- 
gether until perfectly smooth ; beat four eggs very light and add 
them ; bake in a buttered Turk's head, turn out and send it to 
the table with wine-sauce. 

Indian Padding, No. 8. 

One quart of milk scalded and poured over a teacup of Indian 
meal, six eggs beaten light, a piece of butter the size of an egg 
vtirred into the Indian meal before you scald it, a pinch of salt, a 
■mail teacup of sugar ; butter a pudding-dish, pour the pudding 
itti and bake an hour. 



188 COOKER Y FROM EJIERIENCE. 

* Indian Cnstard Pndding. 
Take seven heaping tablespoons of Indian meal, half a tea- 
apoon of salt, two tablespoons of bntter, a teaonp of molasses, two 
teaspoons of ^nger, or cinnamon, as yon prefer; ponr into these 
a qnart of boiling milk, mix well and pour into a buttered pud- 
ding-dish. Jnst before putting into the oven, stir in a teacap 
of cold water, which will produce the same effect as eggs. Baka 
one hour in a hot oven. 

* Lemon Pudding, Ho. L 
Half a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter and five 
eggs beaten separately ; grate the rinds of two and squeeze the 
juice of three lemons, strain out the seeds from the juice ; stii 
the butter and sugar to a cream, add the yolks of the eggs, the 
rind of the lemons and a tablespoonful of good brandy ; beat up 
well, then add the whites of the eggs and the juice of Uie 
lemons ; beat all well together ; line a pie-dish with puff paste, 
mark the edges with the back of a knife about an inch apart, 
pour in the pudding, and bake about half an hour in a quick 
oven. This quantity will make three or four puddings. 

* * Lemon Pudding, Vo. 2. 

Six ounces of sugar, the same of butter, a tablespoonful of 
brandy, and four eggs beaten separately; stir the butter and 
sugar to a cream, add the brandy, the grated rind and juice of a 
lemon, and laat the eggs. Beat all well together, and bake in 
puff paste. 

Lemon Pudding, No. 8. 

Roll nine soda-crackers very fine, pour over them a pint and 
a half of new milk ; let them stand, whilst you rub to a cream 
three-quarters of a pound of butter and a pound and a half of 
fine white sugar ; beat the whites of six eggs very light, then 
beat the yolks a little and gradually add the whites to them ; 
stir them into the butter and sugar, and add to them the rind 
of two and the juice of three lemons, then the crackers and 
milk ; line your pie-plates with puff-paste crust, fill them, and 
bake twenty minutes. 



FASTBY, PUDDINGS, Ac 189 

English Becipe for Lemon Puddings. 

Three tablespoonsfol of rice floor, one quart of milk, six eggs, 
the juice and rind of two lemons, and sugar to your taste. Put 
Ihe milk over the fire in a farina-boiler, leaving out a little to 
mix with the rice flour. When it boils, stir in the rice flour, 
mixed to a paste with the milk you left out When it thickens, 
add a quarter of a pound of butter and stir well. When cool, 
add the eggs beaten separately very light ; then the juice and 
rind of the lemons. Bake in puff paste. 

* One Lemon Pudding. 

Put a teacup of sifted or powdered sugar into a teacup of cold 
water, bring to a boil, then stir in a heaping tablespoonful of 
com starch mixed in a little cold water, and the beaten yolks of 
two eggs; stir briskly. When well mixed, boil about four 
minutes, take it from the fire, and add the grated rind and juice 
of one large or two small lemons; bake a crust (scoring the 
bottom to prevent its puffing up), in a pie-dish, fill it with the 
mixture, beat up the whites of the eggs with two heaping table- 
spoonsful of powdered sugar, spread it over the top, and brown 
slightly in a quick oven. 

* Two Lemon Puddings. 

Beat the yolks only of four eggs until perfectly light, add 
eight heaping tablespoons of sifted or powdered sugar, and beat 
again ; then add two tablespoons of melted butter, the juice of 
two and the grated rind of one lemon ; beat all well together, 
and bake in pufF paste crust ; whilst the pies are baking, make 
a meringue of the whites of the eggs beaten with four or five 
tablespoons of powdered sugar. When the puddings come out 
of the oven, spread them over with the meringue, shaping it 
with a spoou; and brown slightly in a quick oven. 

* Hashville Pudding. 

Stone and stew with plenty of sugar fine ripe cherries, out 
rather thin slices of broad, batter ^hem, place a layer in a pud 



190 OOOKEBT FROM EXPERISNCB. 



L, then a layer of the ^it whikt it u warm, then anotket 
layer of bread and butter with a layer of fruit, until the diah it 
flill; pour over the top a glass of brandy, eorer with a oiA- 
xingnei brown slightly, and serve it oold. 

* Hottingham Pudding. 

Pare and oore eight or ten pippins, or other tart and juioy 
apples, place them in a pudding-dish and fill the oentre of eaob 
apple with sugar ; put a strip of lemon or orange, with the pee} 
on it, down through the sugar. Make a batter of a pint of milk, 
four eggs, and five tablespoonsful of flour, with a pinoh of salt ; 
pour it over the apples, and bake about three^uarters of as 
hour. Serve with wine-sauce. 

* Orange Pudding, Ho. 1. 

Grate the yellow rind and squeeze the juice of two large tar^ 
oranges, stir to a cream half a pound of butter and the same of 
white sugar; add a wine-glass of mixed wine and brandy ] beat 
very light six eggs separately and then together, add them te 
the butter and sugar, then the juice and rind of the oranges j 
line your pie-dishes with puff paste, fill them with the mixture, 
bake about half an hour in a quick oven. When cold| sift ovei 
them powdered sugar. You may add the juioe of a lemon if 
you wish them tart. 

Orange Pudding, Ho. 2. 

Grate and sift a pint of bread crumbs, put them into a quar^ 
of milk, melt a piece of butter the sise of an egg, and stir it in, 
the yolks of five eggs beaten light, half the rind of a large 
orange. Bake in a buttered pudding-dish about three-quarters 
of an hour in a hot oven. Make a meringue of the whites of 
the eggs and powdered sugar beaten together, the remainder of 
the orange-peel grated, and the juice squeezed from the orange— 
iiwead on tJlie pudding whilst hot \ brown slightly and serve 



FASTRT, PUDDINGS, Sc. 191 

Plain Plum Pndding, Vo. 1. 

One cup of molasses^ one of milk, fonr of flour, one egg, one 
teaspoonfnl of soda dissolved in the milk, a little nutmeg, oinna* 
mon, cloves and maoe, one teaspoonful of salt, one cup of raisinfl 
seeded ) boil three hours. 

Plain Plum Pudding, Ho. 2. 

Three cups of flour, one of milk, one of molasses, one of sugar, 
one of suet chopped fine, one cup of raisins seeded, one teaspoon 
of salt, one of soda in the milk, two of cream of tartar in the 
flour a little cinnamon. Boil three hours. 

* Plum Pudding. 

One pound of raisins stoned, one of currants washed and 
dried, a quarter of a pound of citron cut fine, half a pound of 
sifted sugar, a pint of bread crumbs, one pound of beef suet 
shred fine, two wine-glasses of brandy, one of molasses, ten e^s 
beaten separately, a nutmeg grated, a small teaspoon^l of cinna- 
mon and half an one of powdered mace, and two tablespoons of 
flour stirred through the fruit. Scald the bag or cloth, wring 
it as dry as possible, dust flour over the inside, and pour the 
pudding in, tie quite closely and very tight, and boil, if all in 
one, six hours ; if in two, boil three hours ; and if in three, a 
little over two hours. 

* Potato Puddings. 

Boil and mash very flue five large white potatoes, stir to a 
cream three-quarters of a pound of butter and the same of STigar, 
add the juice and rind of one large fresh lemon, a glass of wine 
and one of brandy } beat six eggs very light separately and then 
together, add them to the potato, beat all well together, and bake 
in puflf paste. 

* Prince Albert's Pudding 

Two ounces of finely-shred suet, four ounces of bread crumbs, 
four ounces of currants washed and dried, five eggs, one table- 
ipoonftil of brandy, two of sugar, the peel of half a lemon grated 



192 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

beat the eggs very light separately and then t(^ther ; Btir in 

the bread crumbs, then the natmeg and brandy ; add the Biiet| 

sugar and lemon-peel. Bake it three-quarters of an hour in a 

Turk's head well buttered, or boil it two hours in a quart mould. 

When done, turn it out. Beat the whites of two eggs with half 

a pound of powdered sugar, and pour over the top of the 

pudding. 

* Pumpkin Puddings. 

Stew the pumpkin in as little water as possible, press it 
through a cullender^ and then squeeie it through a clean thick 
cloth until quite dry ; add to it rather more than half a pint of 
cream ; stir to a cream a ooffeeoup of sifted sugar and' three 
ounces of fresh butter, add a wine-glass of wine, the same of 
brandy, the third of a nutmeg grated and a saltspoonM of pow- 
dered cinnamon ; beat eight eggs very light separately and then 
together, add them to the butter and sugar, then stir in the 
pumpkin; if not sweet enough, add more sugar; line your pie 
dishes with pu£F paste crust, fill them, and bake about half an hour 
This is for one quart of the stewed and strained pumpkin. 



* Queen of 

To a quart of milk add a pint of bread crumbs, let it stand 
for half an hour, then add a coffeecup of sugar, the yolks of 
four eggs beaten light, the grated rind of a lemon, and a piece 
of butter the size of an egg warmed and stirred in. Butter a 
pudding-dish and pour the pudding in, bake about three-quarten 
of an hour, or until the pudding shrinks from the side of the 
dish ; beat the whites of the eggs very light, with a teacup of 
sugar and the juice of the lemon. When the pudding is donoi 
spread the top of it with currant-jelly, marmalade or small pre- 
served fruit, as strawberries, raspberries or cherries ; pour over 
these the meringue, shaping nicely with the back of a large spoon, 
and brown slightly in a quick oven. To be eaten cold with 
cream. 

* Quick Pudding. 

Beat three eggs very light, add to them a pint of flour, a cup 
of milk, a small half-cup of sugar, a tablespoon of melted butter. 



PA8TRT, PUDDIN08, Se. 198 

ft teaspoon and a half of cream of tartar, one of soda, half an on6 
of salty and a little nutmeg ; beat all well together, and bake in 
ft battered pudding-dish, or Turk's head, half an hour. 



Padding. 

Have ready two quarts of new milk, pick and wash a teaeup 
of rice, put it in a sauce-pan, with one quart of the milk, set it 
on the back of the range to swell and soften, simmering it gently. 
When perfectly soft, stir into it the other quart of milk, add a 
pinch of salt, a teaspoon of rose-water, and sugar to taste ; butter 
ft pudding-dish and pour it in, bake very slowly one hour. If 
raisins are liked, a large cup of them may be added just before 
putting into the oven. 

* Boley Foley Pudding. 
Make a crust of one quart of Hooker's prepared flour, ft table- 
spoonful of butter and a pinch of salt, with water to miULe i^ 
dough ; roll it out half an inch thick, spread oyer it marmalade 
or any kind of jam, or small fruit preserved, or a mixture ii 
apots of both, or dried peaches or cherries stewed nicely ; leave 
ftn inch all round the crust, roll it up in the shape of a bolster, 
tie it in a floured pudding-doth, at both ends and in the middle, 
and boil it ^o hours. Serve with wine-sauce. 

* Snow Padding. 
Half a package of gelatine dissolved in a pint of boiling water, 
the juice and grated rind of one lemon, and three-quarters of a 
pound of sifted sugar ; beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff 
firoth, add them to the mixture, and beat again with the vessel in 
ft pan of ice. When quite stiff, turn it into a mould, and again 
set it in ice. Make a boiled custard with the yolks of the eggs, 
and a pint of milk sweetened to taste. Serve with the eustara 
pour around the form of gelatine. 

Spaniih Pnddii^. 
Gkrate stale sponge-cake, butter a pudding-dish, and put a 
Wyer of the crumbs in the bottom, then a layer of small pre 

18 



194 COOKERY FROM EXPERUBNOB. 

■erred fruit, marmalade or jelly ; another layer of enunhsy theB 
fruit, and so on until your dish is Aill. Make a oustard <Kf a 
quart of mUk and six eggs, sweeten and flavor, pour over tha 
erumbs, and bake about half an hour or three-quarten. To be 
served with any sauoe you please. 

* Sponge-Cake Pudding. 

Four eggs, their weight in sugar, half their weight in flooTy 
the grated rind of half a lemon. Beat the eggs separately very 
light, stir the sugar into the yolks, add the flour and the whites 
of the eggs alternately, then the lemon. Bake in a Tnrk^ 
head or a flat tin-pan, and serve hot with wine-sauce. Try it 
with a splint when it begins to shrink from the sides of the pan. 
If the splint is dry, the pudding is done. 

Steamed Pudding. 

One oup of sweet eream, the same of molasses, a oup of hot 
water, two teaspoons of each of the following spices : cloves, cin- 
camon and allspice; a teaspoon of ginger and one of ground 
mace, flour enough to make a batter the consistence of pound- 
cake ; add a teaspoon of soda, two of cream of tartar and two 
eups of stoned raisins ; butter a mould, pour it in, cover tightly 
and steam three hours. To be eaten with wine-sauce. 

* Suet Pudding, Ho. 1. 

One ooffeecup of suet chopped fine, one of stoned raisins out 
m half, one of sweet milk, one of molasses, three of flour, and a 
teaspoonful of soda ; stir all well together, putting the milk with 
(he soda dissolved in it the last ; butter a mould, pour in the 
pudding, cover closely so that no water can get in it, and boil 
three hours. Serve with wine-sauce. This is a very niee 
pudding. 

Suet Pudding, Vo. 2. 

Boil a pint of new milk, stir into it three-quarters of a ten- 
cent baker's loaf, grated finely ; add a teacup of molasses, a 
little salt, a quarter of a pound of beef suet finely shred, a poond 



Ill 




B ^^O-E' 1 


sis 2.il 
" 3 S'Sg E.& 




ll'TII 



'Is'lll 






PASTRY, PUDDINQS, Ae. 196 

of niBins stoned, or the same of onrrants, wbiohever you Kave 
by youy aad the peel and juioe of a firesh orange — a tablespoon 
of floor to be mixed through the fruit. Boil one hour and a 
quarter. To be eaten with wine-sauoe. 

* Suet Pudding, Vo. 3. 
Chop six ounoes of suet very fine, put it in a basin with six 
ounees of flour, two ounces of bread crumbs, and a pinch of salt; 
beat three eggs, add to them eight tablespoonsftil of milk, beat 
all well together ; butter a pudding-mould, pour the pudding in, 
ooyer yery closely, and boil two hours. 

Summer Pudding. 
Take a quart of ripe currants stripped from their stalks ; oover 
the bottom of a pudding-dish with shoes of bread without the 
orust, buttered slightly; put a layer of the currants oyer the 
bread, cover them thickly with sugar; then another layer of 
eurrants and sugar, and so on until the dish is filled ; cover the 
top with thin slices of bread and butter, bake in a quick oven 
half an hour ; serve with cream, either warm or cold. Cherries, 
raspberries or plums may be used in the place of currants, or 
any stewed fruity if preferred ; if the fruit is stewed, bake 
fifteen minutes. 

* Tapioea Pudding, Ho. 1. 

Soak three tablespoons of tapioca in water three hours, put 
the same in a quart of milk, draining off the water; boil fifteen 
minutes. Beat the yolks of four eggs, add to them a coffeecup 
of sugar, stir them into the pudding five minutes before taking 
from the fire, flavor with vanilla or lemon. Beat the whites of 
^0 oggB to a stiff froth with five tablespoons of powdered sugar, 
eover the pudding with it, shape nicely with the back of a spoon, 
and bake five minutes. 

This pudding is very nice with two tablespoons of prepared 
eoeoanut stirred into the yolks and sugar, instead of the lemon 
or vanilla. The nut is also sprinkled over the top of the 
mMngue before putting in the oven. 



196 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENOS. 

Tapioea Pndding, H^ S. 

Put three tablespoonsf al of tapioca in oold water and sotk aD 
night; in the morning drain off the water and put it ever the 
fire in a quart of milk ; boil slowly half an nour, er until the 
tapioca is dissolved ; then add the yolks of three eggs, beaten 
with three heaping tablespoonsfnl of powdered sugar, and bofl 
nntO the consistence of cnsiard ; remove it firom the fire, flaTor 
with yanilla or peach-water, stir in the whites of the eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth, pour into the dish you will serve it in, and set 
away to cool. 

Tapioca Pudding, Vo. S. 

Six tablespoonsful of tapioca ; put it in a quart of milk and 
bring to a boil ; when dissolved, add a piece of butter the siie 
of a walnut, two eggs beaten together, and sugar to your taste ; 
butter a pudding-dish, pour in the pudding and bake about 
three-quarters of an hour. Serve with cream or not. 

* Tapioca Pudding, Ho. 4. 

One cup of tapioca soaked in a pint of lukewarm water over 
night; lay in a buttered pudding-dish a layer of sliced tart 
apples, a layer of tapioca, and a plentiful sprinkling of sugar, 
until the dish is full ; pour over the water the tapioca was soaked 
in and bake slowly two hours. Ton may vary it by paring and 
eoring the apples, leaving them whole; scatter sugar thickly 
over, and pouring the tapioca and water over them and baking. 

Vermicelli Pudding. 

Wash an ounce and a half of vermicelli, break it up in short 
pieces, and put it over the fire in a quart of new milk, add to it 
a quarter of a pound of butter, and continue to boil for half an 
hour ; set it off to cool, sweeten to your taste, add a glass of 
wine, two tablespoonsful of brandy, and some grated nutmeg ; 
beat seven eggs separately very light, add the yolks before the 
pudding is quite cold, then the whites, and bake half an hour 
in a buttered pudding-dish. 



PASTRY, PUDDmOS, Sc 197 

* Whortleberry Padding. 

Pot a pint of molasses in a deep basin, dissolve a teaspoonful 
of soda in balf a cup of warm water, pour it into the molasses, 
and beat with a spoon until in a foam ; then add two even tear 
spoons of powdered cloves, the same of cinnamon, and half a 
grated nutmeg ; stir in sifted flour to the consistence of pound- 
cake. Stir in a quart of whortleberries whicli have been weU 
washed and dried, flour your pudding-bag or cloth, pour in the 
padding, tie it pretty close and very tight, and boil it three 
hours. Have the water boiling before you put the pudding in, 
and replenish it from a kettle of boiling water as the water boils 
away. Serve it with wine-sauce. 

The fallowing eight recipes are English and very nice :-^ 

1. A Bread Padding. 
Grate and sift a pint of bread crumbs, put them in a stew-pan 
with just enough milk to cover them, with the grated rind of a 
lemon, a little nutmeg grated, and a saltspoonful of powdered 
cinnamon ; boil about ten minutes, take it from the fire, sweeten 
with sifted sugar to your taste ; beat four eggs separately and 
then togetheri and add them ; beat all well together, and bake 
half an hour in a buttered pudding-dish, or boil rather more 
than an hour in a bag or cloth, well floured. 

2. Vermicelli Padding. 
Boil a pint of milk, add to it a quarter of a pound of vermi- 
oelliy and simmer it ten minutes (break the vermicelli into pieces 
an inch in length), cool it a little ; beat the yolks of five and the 
whites of three eggs separately and then together, stir them into 
the milk and vermicelli, add sugar to your taste, the peel of a 
lemon grated, and bake half an hour. 

3. Boiled Custards. 
Boil a quart of new milk, with the peel of a lemon cat very 
Ihin and a stick of cinnamon * be careful not to let the milk 



198 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

boil over ; then set it where it will simmer for ten minutes. 
Beat the yolks of eight and the whites of four eggs separately 
and then together, ponr the milk into them, a little at a time, 
beating all the while ; set it on the fire again, with sugar to 
your taste, in a vessel of boiling water \ stir until it sticks to the 
spoon and begins to thicken ; then remove it from the fire, stir 
a few minutes, and pour into glass or china custard-cups ; grate 
nutmeg over the top of each. A little brandy or a glass of wine 
b an improvement ; if you add it, stir the custard until cold. 

4L Batter Pudding. 

Six ounces of flour, three eggs, and a pinch of salt ; beat the 
eggs, stir in the flour and salt, stir in milk gradually until the 
thickness of cream, put it in a buttered pudding-dish, and bake 
three-quarters of an hour, or boil it in a pudding-bag or cloth 
well floured an hour and a half. 

5. Hewmarket Pudding. 

Boil a pint of milk, with the peel cut thin of half a lemon, 
and a stick of cinnamon ; boil gently flve minutes, beat the yolks 
of five eggs, and the whites of three separately and then togetheri 
add the milk, sweeten to your taste with white sugar, then strain 
it; cut slices of bread very thin, butter both sides, lay a layer 
in a buttered pudding-dish, and spread thickly with dried cur- 
rants which have been washed and dried, then another layer of 
bread and butter and currants until the dish is full ; pour over 
the custard, grate nutmeg over the top, and put a sprinkling of 
cinnamon, and bake half an hour. 

6. Cabinet Pudding, Ho. 8. 

Butter a half melon-mould, stick all over with preserved 
cherries or rabins, put in layers of bread and butter and cherries 
or currants as above, pour the custard over, and cover the mould 
tightly ; set it in boiling water to come within half an inch of 
the top, and boil an hour ai i a half; turn out and serve 
wine-sauce. 



PA8TBT, PUDDINGS, Ae. 199 

7. Spring Fruit Paddingpi. 

Peel and wash about four dozen stalks of rhubarb, eut it in 
small pieces, and put it in a stew-pan with sugar to make it very 
sweet, set it over the fire, and oook until like marmalade ; a few 
minutes does this ; pass it through a sieve, then add the peel of 
a j&esh lemon grated, a little nutmeg, two ounces of butteri the 
yolks of six eggs and the whites of two ; mix well together, line 
your pie-dishes with puff paste crust, fill them^ and bake half 
an hour. 

8. Spring Fruit Cream. 

Prepare a marmalade of the rhubarb the same as ai>ove, to 
which add a pint of rich cream, dissolve in a little milk^ half ar 
ounce of gelatine ; stir it in the marmalade and pour into a form 
Set it in ice several hours before it is wanted and serve with 
cream. Add the dissolved gelatine whilst the marmalade is hot 

* Cottage Cheese. 
Pour a pan of thick sour milk into a bag made for the pur- 
pose— -of strainer-cloth or rather thin crash ; tie it loosely an^ 
hang it to drain for five or six hours ; when dry, turn it out, rub 
it with the back of a wooden spoon until every lump is out of it, 
add rich cream and a little salt, and rub to a smooth paste 
Serve in a glass or china dish, with a little pepper on the top. 

* Brown Betty. 

Cover the bottom of a pudding-dish with stale rusk grated 
finely, or bread crumbs if you have no rusk ; put a layer of 
thinly sliced tart apple on them, sprinkle them plentifully wit^ 
sugar, and scatter little pieces of butter thickly over them ; then 
add more crumbs, apples, sugar and butter until the dish is full ; 
put crumbs for the top layer, sprinkled with sugar and batter, 
pour over the top three-quarters of a teacup of syrup molasses, 
thinned with a little boiling water. Bake until the top Is well 
browned and the apples are tender. To be eaten hot with 
wine-sauce, or only a little warm with cream. Season each Aaycr 
with a sprinkling of cinnamon and a little nutmeg. 



aOO aOOKERY FBlM EXPERIENCE. 

* Apple Tapiooa» Ho. 1. 

Softk a ooffeeoup of tapioca m cold water all nigbti pare and 
eore six lai^ tart apples, put them in a padding-diah, fill the 
eentre of each apple with batter and sugar, pour the tapioca oyer 
the apples, and bake in a quick oven until the apples are soft 
Serve cold with cream. 

Apple Tapioca, Bfo. 8. 

Soak ovei night a coffeecupM of tapioca ; in the mornings 
put it over the fire in the water it was soaked in, which should 
be about a quart, boil it until a jelly, replenishing with boiling 
water as it thickens, until it will run from the spoon ; add four 
or five tablespoonsful of sugar ; pare and core whole as many 
apples as will nearly fill your diah, make a syrup of sugar and 
water, boil the apples in it until clear, take them out, drain aU 
the juice from them, lay them in the dish, and pour the tapioea 
over them, and set away until cold. This is improved by slicing 
a lemon and adding to the apples a few minutes before you take 
them out of the syrup. To be eaten with cream ; or it is very 
nice without any accompaniment. 

* Blackberry Hush. 

Mash in a preserving-kettle a quart of very ripe blackberries, 
sweeten them with white sugar, cook them fifteen minutes, then 
stir in dry flour until enough to make them stick together, keep 
them boiling all the time. When stiff enough, pour into tea- 
cups. When cold, turn them out ; to be eaten with cream. 

* Coddled Apples. 

Pare and core tart apples, leaving them whole, put them in a 
preserving-kettle with water to cover them, simmer them gently 
until a little tender, take them out, and lay them on a dish to 
jool ; add to the water they were boiled in a half pound of 
sugar to every pound of apples, slice a lemon and put in the 
syrup, bring to a boil, and lay the apple in, and boil gently until 
dear ; take them out and place them in the dish you will serve 



FASTBZ PUDDIN08, Se. 201 

tiitm in, bave ready soaked a quarter of a box of gelatine in 
eold water enongb to cover it, stir tbis into ibe syrup, ^ve 
one boil up, and strain tbrougb a sieve or fine olotb over tbe 
apples. Set away until next day. Strain tbe syrup before add- 
ing tbe gelatine. 

* Fruit Tapioca. 

Dissolve on tbe range a quarter of a pound of tapioca in as 
Uttle water as you can use ; add to it, wben dissolved, a teacup 
of sifted sugar and one quart of fruit in season — strawberries, 
raspberries, blackberries or cranberries ; cook about ten minutes 
and pour into moulds. Serve cold witb cream. Soak tbe tapioca 
in eold water for tbree bours before setting it on tbe fire. 

Lemon Butter. 

Tbree lemons, a pound and a quarter of loaf sugar, two ounces 
of butter, six eggs ; beat tbe butter, sugar and eggs togetber, 
iben add tbe juice of tbe lemons witb tbe rind of one, set tbe 
vessel in anotber of boiling water, and stir until it begins to 
tbickenr; take it from tbe fire, stir until cool, and pour into glass 
cups or a large glass bowl. 

Lemon Sponge. 

Dissolve balf a box of gelatine in a pint and a balf of water 
over tbe fire ; add a pound of fine ;?bite sugar, tbe rind of two 
and tbe juice of tbree lemons. Boi^ all togetber one minute, 
strain tbrougb a sieve or fine dotb ; when nearly cold, add tbe 
wbites of tbree eggs beaten to a stiff frotb ; beat all well togetber, 
set it in a cool place, and wben it begins to tbicken beat it well ; 
repeat tbis several times ; tben pour into moulds. Set in tbe 
ice several hours. Serve witb cream. 

* A Dessert of Bice. 

Wasb a cup of rice in two or tbree waters, and put it in a 
quart of milk sweetened to your taste, add a pincb of salt, and 
a cup of stoned raimns, put it in a farina-boiler, and cook it one 
hour. To be eaten witb cream, cold. 



202 COOKER T FROM EXPERnSKOR. 

* Stewed Bhnbarb. 

Peel the stalks and eat them in pieees half an indi in lea^^ 
pour boiling water on it and drain a moment in a enllender, pnl 
It oyer the ftre in a {Mreserying-kettle, with plenty of sugar, but 
no water, as the fruit is very juicy, and with the sugar will 
make all the syrup you need ; stew it a few minutes ; just before 
taking it off the fire, add the peel of a lemon out in thin alipe. 
When cold, put it on pie-crust preyiously baked, or fill 4 w t i am 
vmU with it 

Apple Custard, Vo. L 

Pare, core and quarter eight tart pippin apples and plaee theai 
olose together in a deep pie-dish ; roll the skin <tf a lemon <m ft 
quarter of a pound of sugar and sprinkle it OTor the apples; 
oover with puff paste, and bake three-quarters of aa hour, or 
until the apples are tender. When the pie is baked, cut out the 
whole centre of the crust, leaving the rim round the edge; whea 
oold, pour over it a custard, made with half a pint of milk, three 
eggs, sugar to your taste, and a teaspoonful of extract of TaaiUftp 
boiled in a farina-boiler until it begins to thicken 

Apple Costard, Vo. 2. 
Pare and oore six tart apples, cook them in a syrup of sogpr 
and water until tender, butter a pudding-dish, lay them in the 
bottom. Beat the yolks of eight eggs, stir them in a quart ef 
milk with sugar to your taste, pour it oyer the applee, and bake 
half an hour. 

* A^le Float 

The whites of fiye eggs beaten to a sdff froth, add to them 
ftye heaping tablespoons of powdered sugar, beat it well in, and 
add a bowlful of apple-sauce, sweetened and flayored with ImoD- 
peel ; heap it in a gkss dish, and pour round it a boiled euslard 
made with the yolks of the eggs and a quart of milk. 

* Baked Custard. 
Beat the yolks of two and the white of one egg yery li^ ; 
mix to a smooth paste a teaspoonful of flour in a little milk, add 



PASTRY, FUDDINQSj Ae. 203 

tt to ihe eggs with a small teacup of rich milk, flavor with vanidai 
kmon-peel or peach-water, pour it in a pie-dish lined with a 
good crust, grate nutmeg over the top^ and bake about twentj 

minutes. 

* Boiled Custards. 

Beat the yolks only of eight eggs, and stir in them gradually 
a quart of new milk, and add sugar to your taste ; put the cus- 
tard in a farina-kettle, and set it over the fire ; stir it until it 
thickens sufficiently to stick to the spoon ; then flavor with two 
teaspoonsfiil of the extract of vanilla or peach-water, set the 
kettle in cold water a few minutes, stirring all the time, then 
pour into glass or china cups, grate a little nutmeg over the top 
•f each custard, and set in a cool place. 

* Chocolate Custards. 

When making the above custards, after flavoring them, pour 
out half only of the yellow custard into the cups, have ready 
dissolved in a little milk over the fire a small teacup of grated 
chocolate, in which you have put a little sugar, add this gradu* 
ally, stirring all the time, to the custard remaining in the kettle, 
When thoroughly mixed, pour into cups and set away to cool. 

*Cocoanut Custard. 
Boil a pint and a half of milk, sweeten to yuar taste, and cool 
II, beat four eggs separately and then together, add to them a 
eoooanut grated, stir in the milk, and bake in crusty as in Gocoa- 
But Puddingy p. 183. 

* Cold Custard. 

A tablespoonful of rennet wine in a quart of milk that has 
been slightly warmed an hour before dinner ; grate^utmeg over 
flie top, and serve with cream and sugar. 

* Lemon Custard. 

Two cups of sugar, two of cold water, two tableepoons of flour, 
two large juicy lemons, and six eggs beaten separately ; mix the 
lour and sugar together dr^ii then add the rind and juice of the 



204 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

lemons, then the water, and then the eggs — die whites of the 
eggs heaten very light and added to the yolks before putting 
fliem in the onstard. Bake in emst. 

* Snow-ball Cnstard. 

Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff firoth ; boil a quart of milk 
in which you haye stirred two tablespoonsful of sugar. When 
boiling hot, drop in the whites, a tablespoonfnl at a time, boil 
nntil a little firm, lay them on a dish ; beat the yolks of the eggs 
with three or four tablespoonsfld of sugar, stir them gradually 
into the milk, stir it oyer the fire or in a farina-kettle untO it 
thickens, then flayer with yanilla or peaoh-water, pour out, and 
when odd, lay the whites on the top. 

Cream Puffs, Vo. 1. 

Put two ounces of butter in a sauce-pan, with a gill and a 
half of water; when boiling, stir in a quarter of a pound 
of sifled flour, stir until it thickens ; take it off and add four 
eggs, one at a time, beating well ; drop in buttered puff-tins and 
bake about twenty minutes. Be careful not to take them out 
of the oyen too soon, or they will fall. 

Filling for the Puflii. 

Stir together four tablespoonsful of sugar and the yolks o^ 
four eggs ] add three tablespoonsful of milk, set over the fire and 
stir constantly ; beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth and 
gradually turn the yolks and milk into them, stir gently, add a 
teaspoonful of extract of yanilla or peach-water. When cold| 
open the side of the puflb with a sharp knife, fill them with the 
oustard and dose again, sift fine sugar oyer and serye. 

Cream Puflb, Ho. 2. 

Put in a sauce-pan a pint of water and half a pound of butter, 
bring to a boil ; stir in whilst boiling three-quarters of a pound 
of flour, take it from the fire, and whilst cooling, add ten eggs« 
throwing them in one at a time, stirring and beating untU aO 



\ 



FASTBT, BUDDINGS, die, 206 

•re in ; then add one teaspoonful of oold water ; with a spoon 
drop the mixture in small cakes on tins well battered, and bake 
in a quick oven fifteen minutes. When done, cut the sides open 
with a pair of scissors, and put in each two teaspoonsful of the 
oustard made as follows : Half a cup of flour, one cup of pow- 
dered sugar, two eggs and a pint of milk ; boil the milk, mix the 
eg^, flour and sugar together, pour them into the milk, stirring 
all the time over the fire ) flavor with vanilla bean boiled in the 
milk and taken out before you add the eggs and sugar. 

* German Puffi. 

Beat very light the whites of four eggs, then beat the yolks 
and add the whites gradually to them, beating all the time; stii 
in them five tablespoonsful of flour and a pinch of salt; add t 
pint of milk; butter teacups, and pour them only half full. 
Bake fifteen minutes in a hot oven. This quantity makes nine 
pu&. Serve them as soon as they are baked, with wine-sauce 
or l|futter and syrup-molasses. 

• Omelette Souffle, No. 1. 

Beat separately the whites and yolks of eight eggs, roll a fresh 
lemon on four tablespoonsful of powdered sugar, mix together 
the yolks and whites of the eggs, add the sugar ; mix two even 
tablespoonsful of flour very smoothly in a little milk or oreain, 
and stir into the eggs ; pour them into a buttered pudding-dish, 
and bake fifteen minutes. Serve quickly. 

• Omelette Souffle, Ho. 2. 

Boil half a quarter of a pound of butter with two and a half 
tablespoonsful of sifted flour, stirring all the time ; add a tum- 
bler of new milk ; stir over the fire until the consistence of 
starch ; take it from the fire, and add quickly the yolks of four 
eggs beaten light and the grated rind of a lemon ; let it stand 
until just before dinner, then add two heaping tablespoonsful 
of powdered sugar and the whites of the eggs beaten very light. 
Bake fifteen or twenty minutes in a quick oven, and serve im- 
mediately. This quantity is sufficient for four or five persons. 



M6 COOKERY FROM EXPERISNCE. 

* Apple FritteB. 
Hake m hMet the nme m for pui-eakeB, Imt beet tlie ^9 
■epentel J and Tery lights then add the yolks aod whites tqgetherj 
beat them well, and add the flour with a tablespoonfid aMiie than 
lor the pan-cakes, then the milk. Peel the apples, core thes^ 
and ent them in rery thin sliees, dip them in the batter, and 
firy in hoi lard ; drain them, and sift white sugar over them. 
Serve with saoce or symp-molaases. Or yon may peel and <{aar- 
ter the apples, and ehop them TCiy finely and stir them in the 
batter. For plain fritteis leave out the apple. 



* Breed Iiittfln. 
Sni shoes half an inch thick from a stale loaf of bakei^a 
brea^; break the yolks of three ^gs in a deep dish, beat them 
slightly, and add half a teacnp of milk, and a pineh of salL 
Helt in a frying-pan equal quantities of butter and lard, dip eaA 
sliee of bread in the milk and eggs, and when the bntter is boil- 
ing hot, fry a nioe brown on both sides, sprinkle thickly with 
sQgar and dnnamon, and serve hot ; or yon may melt a table- 
spoonfrd of onrrant-jelly in a sauce-pan with two glasses <£ 
Madeira wine and pour over, grating a little nutmeg on eaek 

slioe. 

Freneh Fritters. 

Put into a sauce-pan a pint of milk, a piece of butter the siie of 
an ^g, a little grated lemon-peel or two teaspoons of extract of 
vanilla, a teaspoonful of white sugar, and a pinch of salt ; bring 
it to a boil, stir in flour a handful at a time, until the milk is all 
absorbed, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon, and keeping 
it boiling until it becomes quite thick and detaches itself from the 
bottom of the sauce-pan \ then remove it from the fire, and 
break in six eggs, one at a time, stirring constantly until the 
paste will retain its shape in the spoon ; have melted in a fry- 
ing-pan some very nice lard, drop the paste fixmi the spocm in 
small pieces, and fry a nice color over the fire ; they will swell 
veiy much. Take them out with a perforated skSmmer, and sift 
powdered sugar over them and serve. 



PASTRY, PUDDING & Ac Wl 

* Orange Fritten 

Peel fend slioe half an inch thick fine tart jnicy oranges (two 
or thiee), take ont all the seeds, sprinkle the slioes with pow- 
dered sugar, make a batter as for apple fritters, lay a slice of the 
orange in a large spoonftil of the batter, and put it in ihe boiling 
Itrd. Serye with wine and sugar, or sugar only. 

» Plain Fritters. 
Measure five heaping tablespoonsfU of flour, then sift it, and 
stir Tory gradually into it a pint of milk; add a pinch of salt, 
beat the yolks and whites separately of four eggs, add the yolks 
to the flour and milk, beat well together, then add the whites of 
the eggs, and drop spoonsful of the batter into boiling lard. 

* Spanish Fritters. 

Out stale baker's bread in slices half an inch thick, and then 
in strips like lady-fingers or any sise you wish. Sweeten a pint 
of cream or rich milk, beat three eggs, stir in them a little 
ground cinnamon, doyes and grated nutmeg, and a little pinch 
of salt, add them to the cream, lay the bread on a flat dish, pour 
the custard over it, and let it stand until all absorbed by the 
bread; firy a light brown in butter and lard. 

* Apple Meringue. 

Peel, eore and slice a dozen fine large tart apples, put them 
oyer the fire in a preserying-kettle, with a teacup of cold water ; 
stew them until soft, press them through a cullender, sweeten to 
your taste and flayor with the grated rind of a lemon ; put them 
in a pudding-dish ; make a meringue of the whites of three eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth with three heaping tablespoons of sugar, 
shape nicely oyer the apples and brown slightly in a quick oyen. 
Serye cold, with cream. 

Corn-starch Meringues. 

Mix six tablespoonsful of eom-starch to a smooth paste in a 
ioffeeeup of milk, boil a quart of new mUk, stir in the com- 



208 COOKERY FROM EZPEBIBNCB. 

Btaroh, and boil it four minutes, stirring all the time \ add a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut, a pinch of salt, and the yolki 
of three eggs beaten light ; flavor with the juice and grated rind 
of one large or two small lemons ; pour this into crust that you 
have previously baked; make a meringue of the whites of the 
eggs and powdered sugar, cover the tops of the puddings with 
(ft, shape nicely with the back of a spoon, and brown slightly in 
a quick oven. 

* Custard Keringue. 

Cover the bottom of a pudding-dish with slices of sponge- 
cake moistened with sweetened wine; make a boiled custard 
of the yolks of eight eggs and a quart of milk, sweetened ta 
your taste and flavored with extract of vanilla or peach-water. 
When perfectly cold, pour over the cake. Beat the whites of 
four eggs with five tablespoons of powdered sugar until a stiff 
froth, pour over the custard, shape nicely with the back of a 
spoon, and brown slightly in a quick oven. 

* Baspberry Meringue. 

Bake two sponge cakes half an inch thick in jelly- cake tins 
the size of a dinner-plate, cover the lower one with raspberry 
jam half an inch thick, place the other on top of the jam ; make 
a meringue of the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff &oth 
with Aree heaping tablespoons of powdered sugar, shape over 
with \ spoon and brown slightly in the oven. 

Eioe Meringue. 

Boil a teacup of rice ; whilst hot stir in a quarter of a pound 
of butter ; let it cool, then add half a teacup of powdered sugar 
and a quart of milk ; beat the yolks of four eggs and stir them 
in, flavor with the grated rind of a lemon ; butter a pudding- 
dish, pour in the rice, bake half an hour in a hot oven ; make a 
meringue with the whites of four eggs, beaten with half a pound 
of powdered sugat and the juice of a lemon, pour it over the 
rioe and shape with a spoon ; brown slightly in a hot oven. 



PASTRY, PUDDINQ8, Se. 20» 

g^ Blano-mange. 

iWJ^ Soak lialf a box of gelatine in oold water enongh to oo^er it; 

ii%, bring to a boil a qaart of oream and a pint of milk, add the 

^: gelatine ; let it boil gently a few minntes, then add half a p^und 

I'.- of sifted sugar and two teaspoons of vanilla extract; give a boii 

Kit ^P *^^ P^^"^ ^^^ moulds. This quantity makes two medium* 

^^ Biied forms. To be eaten with oream. 

Almond Blanc-mange. 

Blanch, dry and pound in a mortar two ounces of almonds, 
using a little rose-water in pounding them to prevent their oiling. 
Put an ounce of isinglass in half a pint of new milk, and dis- 
solve it over the fire with a piece of vanilla bean. When dis- 
solved, strain out the bean, and add an ounce of butter, the 
almond paste, and a quart of cream ; boil it twenty minutes, and 
add half a pound of powdered sugar ; put in moulds, and set in 
a cool place or on ice. 

* Blanc-mauge of Corn-starch. 

One quart of new milk, mix with a part of it four tablespoonsful 
of corn-starch, put the remainder of the milk on the fire to boil ; 
when it comes to a boil, pour it in a farina-kettlcy stir in the 
corn-starch, with four heaping tablespoons of sugar, and let it 
boil| stirring all the time until clear like starch ; then flavor with 
two teaspoonsful of extract of vanilla, and pour into a mould. 

Blane-mange of Iceland Moss. 

Take a handful' of moss, wash it clean in cold water, pour off 
the water and pour boiling water on it, and let it stand for a 
minute ; strain off the water, and put the moss m two quarts of 
milk that has been sweetered and flavored with lemon or vanilla ; 
put the milk in a fiirina-boiler, stir it occasionally until the con- 
sbtence of custard ; then strain through a fine clot 2 into moulds^ 
and set in a cool place. 
U 



210 OOOKEBT FROM ^XFERIENCB. 

Blane-maage of Itinglasi. 

Pat ftn aanoe of isinglass over the fire in half a pint of milk 
with a pieoe of vanilla bean. When dissolved, add a quart of 
eream, an ounce of bntter, and two oonoes of sweet almonds 
blanched and ponnded in a mortar with a little rose-water to 
prevent their oiling; boil all together twenty minutes; just be- 
fore taking from the fire, add half a pound of sifted sugar, poof 
into moulds^ and set on the ice. 

* Cream Blanc-mauge. 
Dissolve a quarter of a box of gelatine in two wine-glasses of 
wine, standing it in boiling water on the range ; sweeten a pint 
of rich cream, flavor with a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla ; 
when the gelatine is dissolved, stir it in the cream, whip it to ft 
froth with a trifle chum, pour it into a mould and set it in a cool 
place for several hours before it is wanted. 

Ohooolate Blauo-mange, Vo. 1. 
G-rate a teacupfrd of chocolate, add to it a pint of water and a 
teacup or more of sugar ; let it simmer until the chocolate is all 
dissolved, add a quart of milk, and one-third of a paper of com 
starch mixed in cold water. When the milk begins to boil, stir 
in the corn-starch, boil it five minutes, flavor with vanilla ex 
tract, and pour into moulds. 

» Chocolate Blanc-mange, Vo. 2. 

Put an ounce of gelatine in cold water to cover it, and let it 
stand for an hour ; grate four ounces of chocolate, melt it over 
the flre in a little cold milk, taken from the quart you will use ; 
then add the balance of the quart, with three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar and the yolks of two eggs beaten ; boil five 
minutes, then add the gelatine, boil up once, flavor with vanilla 
extract, pour into moulds and set in ice. 

Chocolate Blanc-man; e, Vo. 8. 
One quart of milk, one large coffeeoup of sugar, half a package 
of gelatine, one quarter of a cake of chocolate grated finely; mix 



FASmr, PUDDINGS, ike. 211 

all together and boil an hour in a farina-kettle. This makes two 
medium-sized moulds. 

* Gelatine Blanc-mange, 
Soak a quarter of a box of Cox's gelatine in a ({uarter of a pint 
of cold water for one hour ; then pour over it half a pint of boil- 
ing water, stir in a heaping coffeecup of sifbed sugar and the 
juice and grated rind of a lemon ; stir it until the sugar is diS' 
solved } then strain through a sieve or fine cloth ; beat the 
whites of five eggs to a stitf &oth, and add them to the gelatine 
when it is cold ; whip all well together, pour into a mould and 
set on the ice. Make a custard of a pint and a quarter of new 
milk, the yolks of the eggs and five tablespoonsful of sifted 
sugar ; set it in boiling water and stir until it sticks to the spoon 
and begins to thicken ; turn out to cool. When ready to serve, 
turn the gelatine out of the mould into a deep glass dish, and 
pour the custard round it. 

* Peach Blanc-mange. 

Dissolve two-thirds of a box of gelatine in half a pint of milk 
over the fire ; peel and seed eight large ripe peaches, and press 
them through a sieve, and beat into them very gradually a quart 
of rich cream, with a coffeecup of powdered sugar. When the 
gelatine is dissolved, stir it into the peaches and cream and pour 
into moulds and set on the ice. This may be made in winter 
with preserved or canned peaches. If preserved, take two heap- 
ing tablespoonsful of peaches with their syrup. 

* Bice Blanc-mange. 

Six tablespoons of rice ground in a mill, and soaked in water 
twenty minutes, stir it into a quart of new milk, boil it half an 
hour, stirring it all the time ; flavor with vanilla and sweeten to 
taste, and pour in a mould; eaten with cream. Boil this in a 
fiurina-kettle. 

Charlotte Susse, Ho. 1. 

Cover half a box of gelatine with cold water and let it stand 
an hour; add to it three heaping tablespoons^l of sugar; 



212 COOKSST FROM EXPERIENCE. 

Mi it on tlie Blove and lei ii ecnne Co m boil ; eool ii, add a iea 
^MMmfvl of Tanilia eBsenoe; wliip to a finoUi a pint of rieh rrwnii 
whieh mnrt be Tery eold ; itir tlie gelatine in it ; line a mould 
trith ladj4nigen or slioed spongo-eakoy poor in the mixture and 
seiin the ice. 

« Chailotto KniM, Vo. 2. 
DiflBolTe an ounce of ismglam in half a pint of new milk o?er 
the fire, with a piece of vanilla bean ; whip to a firoth a ]^t of 
rieh cream, with a wine-g^am and a half of Madeira or Sherrj 
wine in it ; beat the yolks of fonr ^gs with fonr heaping table- 
spoonafnl of engar, and the whites separately to a stiff firoth. 
When the isinglass is all dissolved, take oat the bean, and when 
% little cool, stir it into the yolks and sugar ; add the whites of 
the eggs and cream, beat all together for a few minutes, and 
pour into a mould lined with slices of sponge-cake or lady-fingea. 
Set in the ice until wanted. 

• Charlotte Eusse, Mo. S. 
Whip a pint of cream with a trifle chum; as it is hght^ skim 
it off and put it in a large bowl unlil all is whipped. Beat the 
whites of four eggp perfectly light, dissolve half an ounce of gda- 
tioe in a wine-glass of good cooking wine by placing it in a 
small sauce-pan on the range or stove, but do not lei it boil; 
when entirely dissolved, stir into it a teacup of powdered sogir 
and a teaspoon of essence of vanilla; stir the whites of ^gs 
into the cream ; then add quickly the wine and gelatine. Before 
making the above, line a large deep bowl with lady-fingers or 
sliced sponge-cake, pour in the mixture and set it in the ice or 
in a pan of snow. It should be prepared several hours before it 
is wanted. The cream that drains from the whip may be stirred 
into the gelatine, wine and sugar, before mixing with the cream 
and ^g. Stick the cake to the mould by dipping one dde in 
the beaten white of ^g. 

Charlotte Busse, Ho. '4. 
Pound a vanilla bean with a lump of sugar and boil it m a 
tumbler (tf milk, strain off, and add to the milk two eggs, beatcD 



PASTRY, FUDDmOS, Jtc. 218 

f eiy light separately, a teacup of sugar, the weight of a cent in 
gelatine, dissolved in as little hot water as possible ; beat to a 
froth with a ohura a pint of oream and lay it on a sieve (this 
can be done first, as it will stand); add the cream to the ou£u 
tard, and stir it all together until quite cold, but not congealed ; 
line a mould with strips of cake and pour it in, or have ready 
baked a square sponge-cake, from which you have scooped Che 
inside, and pour in the custard. 

* Charlotte Buase, Ho. 6. 

Make a soft boiled custard of a pint of milk and four eggs, 
flavor with a teaspoon of essence of vanilla and sweeten with a 
pound of powdered sugar ; dissolve an ounce of gelatine in half 
a pint of water, add it to the hot custard, and stir until cold ; 
then add a quart of cream, whipped to a froth with a trifle 
ohum, pour into a mould lined with lady-fingers, and set in the 
ioe until wanted. 

Charlotte Busse, Vo. 6. 

Beat the yolks of seven eggs and stir them gradually into a 
pint of scalded milk, sweeten to your taste, set it in a pan of 
boiling water until it thickens, then set it away to cool. Pour a 
coffeecup of warm water over half a box of gelatine, stir it on 
the stove until dissolved ; beat the whites of seven eggs to a 
stiff froth, with powdered sugar to make it like icing; then 
whip a quart of rich cream with a trifle chum and stir it in the 
custard ; stir in now the whites and sugar, flavor with vanilla, 
then the gelatine; beat all well together. When perfectly cold, 
oour it into a mould lined with sponge-cake or lady-fingers. 

* Charlotte Busse, Ho. 7. 

One-third of a box of gelatine dissolved in half a pint of boil- 
ing water ; when dissolved stir in it a teacup of powdered sugar, 
add two teaspoons of extract of vanilla and the beaten yolks of 
three eggs ; whip to a froth a quart of rich cream, drain it on a 
sieve ; put the oream that drains from the whip into the gela- 
tine and egg, and stir in the whipped cream ; line a dish with 



214 aOOKEBT FROM EXPERIENCE. 

drnd sponge-cake or lady-lbgen, poor the mixtnie in ud eel ^i 
in % eool place for Beveral hours. 

'Bayaxiaii Oreaa. 
Sissolye lialf a box of geladne in a pint of milk, set it 0¥er 
(he i&re, stir until all dissolved and quite hot; then take it ofll 
Beat the yolks of seven eggs quite light; stir in them five hei^K 
ing tablespoons of powdered sugar ; add to them half a pint of 
cold milk ; stir well together, and add the hot milk and gelatine. 
When thoroughly mixed, stir in half a pint of rich cream ; if 
not sweet enough, add more sugar ; flavor with vanilla or peach- 
water ; put all on the fire again, and stir until it thickens a 
little ; then pour in a form and set it on the ice for three or 
bur hours. 

* Curds and Cream. 

Put two tablespoonsM of prepared rennet into two quarts of 
milk, and set it near the fire for an hour ; then break it up with 
a spoon and let it stand half an hour longer ; pour off the whey 
and turn the curd into a perforated mould ; let it stand for six 
hours, then turn it out very carefully on a dish, and serve with 
cream and sugar. This is very nice. 

* Prepared Bennet 

Procure of your butcher a rennet that has been stretched and 
dried ; wash it dean and wipe it dry ; then cut it from the 
hoop, and cut it in pieces half an inch square, put it in a bottle 
holding rather more than a pint, and fill it up with Madeira or 
Sherry wine. In two or three weeks it will be ready for use. A 
tablespoonful is su£Bioient for a quart of milk. This is only for 
cold custard or junket and cheese-cakes ; for cream cheese use 
ttiat which you procure at the druggist's, with no wine in it, 
unless you prefer the flavor of wine in the milk. 

Spanish Cream. 
Put an ounce of gelatine in three pints of rich milk, put it 
in a sauce-pan over the fire, and simmer until the gelatine is all 
dissolved, stirring it all the time : then add three-quarten cf a 



PASTRY, PUDDINOS, At. 216 

pound of sifted sugar, take it from tbe fire, beat six eggs yery 
light, and stir them slowly into the mixture ; put all on the fire 
again, let it thicken, stirring all the time. When this is done, 
take it from the fire, flavor with two teaspoons of vanilla extract, 
let it oool a little, beat it up well, and pour into moulds which 
have been wet with cold milk and drained. Set in a cold place 
until wanted. 

Velvet Cream. 
One coffeecupful of good cooking wine, two-thirds of a box 
of gelatine soaked for half an hour in a pint of cold water, and 
a coffeeoup of sifled sugar ; set all together in a sauce-pan over 
the fire, let it come to a boil. When nearly cold, add one pint 
of cream, beat all well together, and put in a mould. 



Cream. 

Dissolve half an ounce of gelatine in a cup and a half of good 
cooking wine, add to it three-quarters of a pound of sugar, the 
rind and juice of a lemon or an orange ; simmer until the sugar 
is all dissolved, strain it through a sieve or fine cloth. When 
oool but not congealed, stir it gradually into a pint and a half of 
rich cream, pour into moulds, and set on the ioe. 

Whips. 
Mix together a pint of rich cream, a quarter of a pound of 
fine white sugar, half a pint of wine (Sherry or Madeira), the 
juice of a lemon and the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth ; beat well with a trifle chum and skim off the froth as it 
rises ; fill glasses about half full of the cream which remains 
after you have churned itj heap the froth on top and serve. 

Frost Jelly. 
Put half a box of gelatine to soak for an hour in half a pint of 
cold water, add to it half a pint of boiling water, the juice of two 
and the rind of one lemon. When nearly cold, strain it, and 
when it begins to form, add the beaten whites of two eggSy beat 
all well together, and p3ur into a mould and set on the ioe. 



216 OOOKEBT FROM EXPERIENOE. 

* Orange Jelly. 

Soek lialf a box of geladne an honr in a pint of cold wateri add 
lo ift balf a pint of boiling water, a ooffeeenp of rifted ragary ike 
jniee of riz large oranges, the grated rind of one; stir all wefl 
together. When Bngar and gelatine are dusolyed, pour it in a 
mould and set it on the iee. 

* Wine Jelly. 

To a box of gelatine add a pint of eold water, the jniee of 
three and the rind of one lemon ; let it stand an hour, then add 
two and a half pints of boiling water and two ponnds and two 
oonees of sifted sugar; stir until the sugar is entirely dissoWed, 
then strain it through a thin eloth, and add a large tumbler of 
good eooking wine and fiye tablespoonsful of brandy ; set it in a 
eool plaoe. It will be ready for use in twenty-four hours. 

* A Frozen Dessert 

A pint and a half of oream, rind of one orange grated, the 
juioe of two, a quarter of a pound of stale macaroons grated 
flne, six ounces of sugar; whip the cream and stir all in it, and 
fteeie like iee cream. 

Bird's Vest 

This is a pretty dessert, and must be prepared the day befoiw 
f ou want it. Soak half a box of gelatine in half a pint of oola 
water for one hour, pour on it a pint of boiling water, add a 
pound of sifted sugar, and the juice of two fresh lemons, with 
the rind of one grated ; stir all together untO the sugar is dis- 
solved, then strain it through a thin cloth, add a teacup of wine, 
and pour it into a glass dish. Cut the rind from three lemons 
Tcry thin with a sharp knife, divide it in narrow strips and aa 
kng as you can get them ; cover them in a sauce-pan with eold 
water, and simmer until tender; strain off the water, add to 
them a small teacup of sifted sugar, the juice of a lemon, and 
half a cup of boiling water, and simmer until the rind is clear 
(about twenty minutes) * take out the peel and drain on a rieve. 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS, Ac. 217 

For the eggs, boil a quart of milk, sweeten it to your taste, and 
stir in it whilst boiling four tablespoons heaping foil of oom 
staroh mixed in a little eold milk or water, boil it four minutes, 
stirring all the time, flavor with two teaspoonsfnl of extract zi 
vanilla; empty as many eggs of their contents through a smaU 
hole in one end as you have persons at the table, wash them out 
with cold water, and fill them through the little aperture with 
the blano-mange, and stand them to cool in a basin of bran until 
you want them. Next morning lay the lemon-peel around on 
the top of the jelly in the shape of a nest, break the shells from 
the blano-mange, and arrange them in it and serve. 

Apple Bird's Vest 

Peel juicy tart apples, slice very thin a quart-measure of them, 
put them in a buttered pudding-dish or shallow tin pan, pour 
over them a teacup of hot water. Make a stiff batter of a pint 
of sour milk, a little salt, a piece of butter the siie of a walnut, 
and flour to form the batter. Put in last a teaspoonful of soda 
in a little hot water ; if in a flat tin, it will bake in half an hour ; 
longer if in a pudding-dish. Serve with butter, sugar and 
cream. 

♦Trifle. 

Line the bottom and sides of a deep glass or china bowl with 
sliees of sponge-cake, pour over a half pint of sweet wine, and 
let it stand until the cake has absorbed all the wine. Make a 
custard of a pint and a half of new milk, the yolks of five and 
the whites of two eggs, with sugar to your taste, boil it in a 
farina-boiler until it begins to thicken, stirring all the time, set 
it aside, stirring occasionally until perfectly cold; then pour it 
over the cake and wine, and let it stand for an hour. Sweeten 
to your taste a pint and a half of rich cream, use powdered sugar 
in which you have rolled a lemon, to extract the oil and flavor 
the cream ; whip it to a froth with a trifle-chum, taking off the 
froth as it rises with a skimmer, and putting it on a sieve cov- 
ered with a piece of very thin muslin. Dot the cake before you 
pour the custard over with p/eserved cherries little pieces of 
jelly or marmalade ; put the whip on the custard just as it is 



218 COOKER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

wanted, and ornament the top with small maoaroons soaked u 

wine. 

* Cheese-cakes. 

Pat two quarts of milk in a basin near the fire, and star in it 
two tablespoonsfol of prepared rennet, let it stand an hour, then 
break it up with a spoon, and let it stand half an hour longer, 
and pour it into a cullender to drain. When dry, put it into a 
basin, and rub it fine with the back of a wooden spoon ; stir to 
A cream half a pound of butter and three-quarters of a pound of 
powdered sugar, add a third of a nutmeg grated, a saltspoonful 
of powdered cinnamon, a wine-glass of brandy and one of wine, 
and a little grated lemon-peel; beat six ^gs very light, add 
them with the curd, and bake in puff paste crust abowt half an 
hour. One pint of cottage cheese can be used if at hand, in- 
stead of preparing the curd as aboye; rub it very smooth with 
the back of a wooden spoon. 

* Fanrcakes. 
Break four eggs into a basin, beat them very little, merely to 
mix them together, stir in them a quarter of a pound of sifted 
fiour, with a pinch of salt and a little grated nutmeg ; mix them 
veiy smoothly, then add half a pint of rich milk or cream, melt 
a little piece of butter in a round pan the size of a dessert-plate. 
When hot, put in two tablespoons^ of the mixture, let it spread 
OTcr the pan, set it over the fire ; when slightly brown on one 
side, turn it over ; when colored slightly, take it out, lay it on a 
clean cloth ; proceed thus until all are done ; then spread either 
cinnamon and sugar thickly over each one, or a thin spread of 
marmalade, roll them up, lay them on a baking-tin, sift sugai 
OTcr J set them in the oven three minutes, then serre. 



GAKS. 



* Prnit-cake, ITo. 1. 

One pound of batter, the same of sugar and flour, ten eggs, 
one pound of raisins seeded, one of eurrants washed and dried, 
and half a pound of eitron cut in little strips. Stir the butter 
and sugar to a cream, add to them half a small nutmeg grated, a 
pinch of cinnamon and the rind of half a lemon grated ; stir 
well } then add the yolks of the eggs beaten light ; stir these 
well together, and then add the flour alternately with the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a froth ; mix the fruit altogether, and stir 
in it two heaping tablespoons of flour, and stir it in the cake. 
Bake slowly nearly two hours; if browning too much, cover 
with thick paper. When the cake shrinks from the sides of the 
pan, and a broom splint run down the centre of the cake comes 
out clean and dry, the cake b done ; and this is the test for all 
kinds of cake. 

Fruit-oake, Vo. 2. 

One pound of powdered sugar, one of butter, one of flour, 
twelve eggs, two pounds of raisins seeded, two of currants washed 
and dried, half a pound of citron cut in little slips, one table- 
spoonful of powdered mace, one of cinnamon, one nutmeg ; mix 
a large wine-glass of Madeira wine and one of brandy and steep 
the spices in it over night. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, 
add the yolks of the eggs beaten light, then the wine and spice ; 
beat well and add the flour alternately with the whites of the 
^gs beaten to a stiff froth ; mix all the fruit together, put on 
them two heaping tablespoons of flour, stir it through them, and 
add all to the cake, when ready to put it in the pans. Bake in 
two cakes, slowly nearly two hours. Line the pans with but- 
tered paper, and cover the cake with thick pap^i as soon as it it 
brown on top. 

(210) 



280 COOKERY FROM EZPERUSKCK 

*BbiekCaka. 

One pound of batter, one and % balf pounds of sugar and the 

same of floor, ten eggp beaten separately Teiy li^i, a teaenp of 

rieh cream, one of molasses, a teasnoonfnl of saleratosj tbe same 

of einnamon and clores, balf an one of powdered maee, two 

poonds of raisins seeded, two of eorrants washed and dried, and 

half a pound of eitron enl in little strips. Stir the bvttn and 

soger to a eream, add the spiees and a tablespoonliil of beat 

brand J ; beat well, then add the yolks of the eggs and stir agun, 

add the molasses, and when that is well mixed in, add the floor 

alternately with the whites of ^gs, leaving out a small teaeop 

of the floor to stir in the firoit. Jost before yoo pot in the 

froit, beat in the cream with the saleratos dissolved in it; now 

add the firoit and pot in the pans ; if all in one, it will take 

nearly foor hoars to bake and most be pot in a moderate oven. 

As soon ss it browns on the top^ eover with thiek paper. The 

bottom and ndes of the pan most be oovered with battered white 

paper. 

English Froit-eake. 

One poond of hotter, the same of soger, the same of floor, 
nine ^g|i, two pounds of eorrants washed and dried, a ^[oaiiet 
of a poond of shelled almonds, blanehed, dried and chopped, a 
quarter of a poond of eitnm cot in little strips, half a poond of 
candied orange peel, the same of candied lemon peel, cot in 
small pieces, half a grated notmeg, half an oonce of ground all- 
spice, a quarter of an ounce each of ground einnamon, powdered 
maee^ ground ginger and coriander seed pounded in a mMxrtari 
and a gill of good brandy. Stir the butter and sugar to a creamy 
add the spice, then the yolks of the eggs beaten light, then the 
brandy, then the flour, alternately with the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth ; beat up well, and add the froit, with a 
ooople of tabkspoonsfril of floor, which yoo have left oot of tfie 
poimd ; line the pan with bottered paper, poor the cake in, and 
bake in a moderate oven nearly two hoorsi eover the cake with 
thick paper, when brown on top. If yoo add half a poond of 
stoned raisins to this cake, it is English 



CAKE. 221 

Fanaer's Fruit-cake. 

Three oo£Feeoups of dried apples, two of molasses, one of batter, 
one of sugar, one of raisins stoned and chopped, two eggs, the 
juice and grated rind of one lemon, two teaspoonsful of soda, 
and one pound and about half a cupful of flour : to be the con- 
sistence of soft ginger-cake. Put the apples to soak in cold 
water over night ; in the morning chop them very fine and stew 
them in a cupful of the water they were soaked in and two of 
molasses. When very soft, take them from the fire, turn them 
out to cool, and add to them whilst warm two teaspoonsfrd of 
powdered cinnamon, the same of cloves, and the juice and rind 
of the lemon. Stir to a cream the butter and sugar, and add 
the eggs beaten light, then the apples and raisins, then the flour, 
and last the soda dissolved in a tablespoonfril of hot water. 
Bake in a moderate oven an hour and a half or two hours; tesi 
with a splint. 

Harrison Cake. 

Five cups of flour, five eggs, one and a half cups of butter, 
the same of sugar, one cup of molasses, one of milk, with a 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it, a wine-glass of brandy, one 
pound of raisins, half a pound of citroui a teaspoonful of pow- 
dered cloves, the same of cinnamon. Mix like pound-cake, 
leaving out a little flour for the fruit ; add the milk and soda 
last ; then stir in the fruity and bake all in one, or in square 
flat tins. 

* Imperial Cake. 

One pound of butter, the same of sugar, and the same of flour, 
two wine-glasses of brandy, one pound of raisins, half a pound 
of citron, one pound of almonds blanched and split in half, half 
a teaspoon of soda in a very little milk, and ten eggs. Mix like 
pound-cake, leaving out two tablespoonsfril of the flour to stir 
through the fruit. Stone the rabins and cut the citron in little 
strips ; add the fruit last, and stir in the soda just before you 
add it Bake all in one, or in small square tins ; flavor with two 
nnall nutmegs grated. 



222 COOKEBT FROM EXPERIENCK 

Fire onpe of powdered sugar, three cups of fresh butter, two 
enps of milk, six eggs^ ten oups of sifted flour, a wine-glass of 
brandj, one of wine, three grated nutm^, two teaspoons of 
ioda or pearlash, one pound of raisins seeded, a quarter oi a 
pound of citron eut in strips. Beat the eggs separately ; cream 
the butter and sugar, then add the eggs, a little of the flour, 
then wine, brandy and spice, then the rest of the flour, leaving 
out a little to dust through the fruit, then the milk with Ae 
pearlash dissolved in it, and last the fruit. Divide in four pans, 
and will take about one hour to bake ; bake in round bread pans. 

French Loaf-cake» Ho. 2. 

One pound of flour, one of sugar, three-quarters of a pound 
of butter, eight eggs beaten separately, one pound of raisins, 
mixed with two tablespoons^ of flour from the weight, one 
glass of wine, the grated rind and juice of one lemon, one nut 
meg grated ; stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the wine 
and lemon-juice; beat well; then the yolks of the eggs, then 
the flour alternately with the whites of the eggs, fruit last ; bake 
like pound-cake or in square tins. Put the lemon-peel and nut- 
meg in before you add the flour. 

Plain Fruit-cake. 

Three-quarters of a pound of butter, one and a quarter pounds 
of sugar, one and three-quarter pounds of flour, five eggs, one 
pint of rich milk, a teaspoonful of saleratus and two pounds of 
seeded raisins. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the 
e^p^ and milk, then the flour, leaving out two tablespoonsful to 
stir through the fruit, then the saleratus dissolved in a tea- 
spoonfril of hot water ; beat all well together, and add the fruit 
Bake all in one, or in fiat tins. 

* Baisin-cake. 

One pound of sugar, one of fiour, three-quarters of a pound 
of butter, five eggs, a small cup of cream or rich milk, a tea- 



CAKE. 223 

• 

ipoon even fall of oream of tartar, half an one of soda, and one 
pound of fine raisins seeded and out in half. Mix like pound- 
eake, put the oream of tartar in the flour, leaving out two table- 
spoonsful to stir through the rabins ; put the milk in last with 
the soda dissolved in it, and then stir the fruit through and bake 
quioklj— -either in square tins, or all in one oake. 

* Washington Cake. 

One and a half pounds of butter, one and three-quarter 
pounds of sugar, the same ol dour, eight eggs, a pint of oream, 
two pounds of seeded raisins. Mix like pound-eake, add the 
eream to the butter, sugar and eggs, when beaten light; flavor 
with a tablespoonful of rose-water, a wine-glass of brandy and 
the peel of a small lemon grated, a very little grated nutmeg ; 
flour the raisins with a tablespoonful taken from the weight \ 
stir in last a teaspooniul of saleratus dissolved in a little of the 
oream, add the fruit, and bake in one large or two smaller oakes. 

* Queen's Cake. 

One pound of white sugar, one of flour, three-quarters of a 
pound of butter, one pound of stoned raisins, half a pound of 
currants washed and dried, and a quarter of a pound of citron 
out in little pieces, a wine-glass of brandy, one of wine, one of 
cream, six eggs beaten separately and then together, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, two of cinnamon, two of doves ; stir the sugar 
and butter to a oream, add the eggs, then the brandy and wine, 
then spices and flour, and last the soda in the oream ; leave out 
two tablespoonsful of the flour to stir in the fruit, which add 
last. Bake in two cakes in round, deep pans for nearly an hour 
and a half; cover with paper when brown on the top ; line the 
pans with buttered paper. 

* Seoteh Cake, Ho L 

Stir to a oream one pound of sugar and three-quarten of a 
pound of butter ; beat nine eggs very light separately and then 
togethik Hdr ^^em in the butter and sugar, add one pound of 



224 COOKEBT FROM EZPEBIENC& 

nfted flour, the jniee and grated rind of one lemon, and a 
glasa of brandy; jnst before patting in tbe pans, stir in mm 
pound of raisins stoned, and floored with a little floor yoa liav« 
left out of the eake. Bake in a large tin pan, with a hde throigb 
the oentre, as a Turk's head, or in square tin pans. 

Scotch Cake, Vo. 8. 

Bub three-quarters of a pound of butter into one pound d 
sifted flour, stir in it one pound of powdered sugar and a tabW 
spoonful of cinnamon^ add three eggs, mix all together, roll out 
Tcrj thin, cut in round cakes, and bake in a quick oven. 

Kolasses Fruit-cake 

One cup of molasses, one and three-quarter cups of light 
brown sugar, one cup of butter, four ^gs, one cup of cold water 
Boil the molasses, sugar and butter together; let them cool 
flour as thick as pound-cake ; then add the eggs ; beat it well, 
add gradually the water, with a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in 
it, then add one pound of raisins, one of currants and half an 
one of citron, with two heaping tablespoons of flour mixed 
through the fruit. Bake nearly two hours, if aU in one; half 
the time, if in two cakes. Stir in a saltspoonful of salt. 

Citron-cake. 

flight eggs, their weight in flour, the same of sugar, the 
weight of flve in butter, a little powdered mace. Mix Bko 
pound-cake, and put in a buttered pan a layer of cake and ono 
of citron cut in thin strips, alternately, until the cake is aU in 
the pan. 

* Amber-cake. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar three of flour, one of milk, 
flre eggs, a teaspoonful of peariash, half a pound of raisins^ 
three-quarters of a pound of almonds, one piece of citron, a tea- 
spoonful of extract of bitter almonds ; stir the butter and sugar 
together, add the yolks of the eggs, beat them well in, then the 
flour alternately with the whites of the eggs, then the milk with 



CASOB. 225 

Uie pearlwli dissolved in it, tlien the fruit dusted with a little 
of the floor, then the almonds blanohed and split in half. Yon 
may add a coffeeoup of the kernels of' shellbarks in the plaoe 
of almonds. Bake all in a large oake, or in square tins. 

Composition-oake. 
Fiye caps of flour, three of sugar, two of butter, one of milk, 
Ave eggs beaten separately, a wine-glass of brandy or wine, one 
nutmeg grated, a teaspoonful of soda, one pound of raisins 
seeded, half a pound of currants washed and dried ; stir the 
butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs, then the brandy and 
spice, half the flour; beat very light, then add the other half of 
the flour, beat again, then the milk with the soda dissolved in it^ 
last the fruit with a little of the flour stirred through it, which 
prevents it firom sinking to the bottom of the cake. Bake about 
an hour. Try with a broom splint 

Holasses Cup-cake. 

One and a half coffee-cups of butter, two of brown sugar, one 
of molasses, one of milk, flve of flour, four eggs, a teaspoonful of 
soda, a small tablespoonful of ginger, a teaspoonfol of cloves, the 
same of cinnamon, half an one of powdered mace, a coffeecup 
of raisins seeded, the same of currants, and half an one of citron. 
Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs, then the 
molasses, spice, flour, and last the milk with the soda dissolved 
in it. Leave out a tablespoonful of flour to stir through the 
fruit ; put this in just before you pour into the pans. Bake aU 
in one, or in square flat tin pans. Try it with a broom splint. 

Light Cake. 

Take a pint of bread dough, beat into it two eggs ; boil a 
amall half teacup of milk, stir in it while boiling a teacup of 
sugar and half an one of butter. When nearly cool, add half a 
teaspoon of soda and a little flour; knead all together into the 
dough, flatten it out in a square tin which you have buttered; 
put half a pound of 8e3ded raisins in a bowl with a teaspoon of 
16 



826 COOKEBT FROM EXPERIENCE. 

aumamon, a tablespoonfnl of sugar and a pieoe of butter ib« 
file of a nutmeg ; rub all together until the rainna are well 
eovered, then stiek them down through the dough, let it rise. 
When light, eover the top with sugar and milk mixed to a paste, 
and bake. 

* Fruit JumUaa. 

One pound of butter, the same of sugar, one and a quartei 
pounds of flour, six eggs, half a wine-glass of brandy, a little 
nutmeg, half a pound of raisins seeded or eurrants washed and 
dried. Stir the butter and sugar to a oream, add the brandj 
and spioe, then the eggs beaten separately, then the flour, leav- 
ing out a tablespoonful to stir through the fruit. Drop on but- 
tered tins, or bake in small oakes. 

Fruit Ginger-eake. 

One pint of molasses, a teacup of sugar, three ^gs, seven 
ounces of butter, a tablespoonful of ground doves, three table- 
spoonsful of ground ginger, one pound of raisins seeded, and a 
half pound of citron cut in little slips, flour to the consistence 
of pound-cake. Stir the sugar and butter to a cream, add the 
eggs; mix the molasses, cloves and cinnamon together, and stir 
them into the butter, sugar and eggs ; then add a teaspoonful 
of saleratus dissolved in a cup of cream, then the fruit with two 
tablespoonsful of flour stirred through it, and bake in a laige 
cake. 

* Strawberry Short-cake. 

In New Ei^land, where this cake originated, the wild straw- 
berries are used for it, and are the best ; where they cannot be 
procured, have ready about two quarts of berries ; make the 
oake as for soda biscuit : three pints of flour with three tea- 
spoonsful of cream of tartar sifted in it, a teaspoonful of salt, 
two tablespoonsful of butter and one of lard rubbed into the 
flour ; mix it with a pint of milk with a ieaspoonfril of soda dis- 
solved in it; roll it out half an inch in thickness, and bake either 
in one or two oakes, in a quick oven, ab:>ut fifteen or twenty 



CAKE. 221 

4Qintites. Split the oake open as soon as it oomes from the 
oven, mark it round the edges with a knife, and separate it with 
the fingers ; outting it makes it heavy. Batter both top and 
bottom oakes, spread the strawberries on the lower one, sprinkle 
thiekly with powdered sugar, lay the top orust on the berrieS| 
and serve it with rich oream. To be cut at the table. This is 
nice for dessert or the tea-table. Bake it in large round o^ 
square tins. 

* Whortleberry-cake. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, three cups and a half cf 
flour, four eggs, a cup of sour milk, juice and rind of a lemon, 
a small teaspoon of soda, and two cups of whortleberries. Stir 
the butter and sugar to a cream, add the lemon, then the yolks 
of the eggs beaten light, then flour and whites of eggs beaten to 
a stiff froth, last the milk ; dissolve the soda in a teaspoon of 
hot water and beat it in just as you put it in the pans. Bake 
all in one or in square tins. Fruit to be put in just after the 
soda. 

Plum-cake. 

I 

One pound of butter, one of sugar, one of flour, ten eggs, one 
pound of currants, half a pound of raisins, one nutmeg grated. 
Stir the butter and sugar to a oream, add the yolks of the eggs 
beaten light, a glass of brandy and the nutmeg, then the flour 
alternately with the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
last the fruit with two tablespoons of flour stirred through it. 
Bake like pound-cake an hour and a half. 

I 

*Loaftcake. 

Four pounds of dough ready to bake, two pounds of sugar, one 
pound of butter, flve eggs, and two pounds of seeded raisins ; 
flavor with cinnamon and nutmeg, and add half a tumbler of 
brandy. Mix the sugar, butter and eggs beaten, into the dough. 
When thoroughly mcorporated^ add die brandy and fruit ; put 
it in the pans and let it rise for an hour or more and bake. 



228 COOKEBT FROM EXPERIENCE. 

* Coffee-cake. 

One cap of batter, one of sagar^ one of molaases, foor of floor, 
one of coki strong coffee, a teaspoonfol of soda, and two of 
cream of tartar, foor eggs, a teaspoonfol of cloves, one and a 
half of cinnamon, one pint of stoned raisins, one of currants, 
and half an one of citron. Stir the batter and sngar to a cream, 
add spices, molasses, eggs, coffee, flour with the cream of tartar 
sifled through it, and last the soda dissolved in a spoonful of 
hot water. Bake in shallow pans, or all in one round cake. 

* Tibbie's Sponge-cake. 

Eight eggs, their weight in sugar, and half their weight in 
flour; beat the eggs separately very light, stir the yolks and 
sugar together, and the whites alternately with the flour, which 
must be sifted ; use half sifted and half powdered sugar, and add 
one more yolk of egg than you weighed, leaving out the white, 
the grated peel of one lemon ; bake in brick-shaped tins, and 
ce whilst warm. 

* Scrauton Sponge-cake. 

Three-quarters of a pound of sugar, seven eggs, half a pound 
and an ounce of flour. Put the. sugar over the fire with six 
tablespoons of hot water, boil it three minutes, beat the eggs 
separately, pour the sugar boiling hot very gradually over the 
yolks, stirring all the time \ then add the whites also veiy slowly^ 
beating aU the time, then the flour gradually. When all is in, 
Deat a few minutes, pour into brick-shaped tins, and bake in a 
quick oven. 

Spongecake Ho. 8. 
Six eggs, two teacups of sugar, aud two of flour sifled lightly 
into the cup, the juice and rind of a lemon. Beat the eggs sepa- 
rately very light, beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar, add 
ihe lemon, then the flour and whites of the eggs alternately ; 
beat well together and bake. 



CAKE. 229 

* Spongecake, Ifo. 4. 

Beat six eggs yery light separately, take their weight in sngai 
and half their weight in flour ; beat together the yolks and sugar, 
then add the whites and flour alternately, and just before put- 
ting in the pan, stir in a tablespoonful of melted butter. Bake 
in a Turk's head. 

* Sponge Oinger-cake. 

One coffeeoup of sour milk, one of molasses, one half oup of 
butter, two eggs, one tablespoonful of ginger, a quart of flour, 
and a teaspoonful and a half of soda. Beat together the molas- 
ses, the butter warmed a little, eggs, milk and ginger ; then stir 
^ in the flour, add the soda dissolved in a very little hot water. 
Bake in square tins. 

* Republican Cake. 
One pound of sugar, the same of flour, and a half a pound of 
butter, one cup of rich cream, five eggs beaten very light sepa- 
rately, two teaspoons of cream of tartar, one of soda, and the 
rind and juice of a large lemon. Stir the butter and sugar to a 
eream, add the lemon, stir it well in, then add the yolks of the 
eggs, then the cream, flour (beating each in well), and last the 
whites of the eggs. Put the cream of tartar dry in the flour, 
the soda dissolved in a spoonful of hot water, and added last. 
Bake in one large cake as pound-cake. 

Lady-cake without Almonds. 
Three cups of flour, two of sugar, half an one of butter, one 
of cream or rich milk, the whites only of four eggs, a tea- 
spoon of cream of tartar dry in the flour, half an one of soda 
dissolved in the cream, half a pound of citron cut in strips and 
flavored with extract of bitter almonds. Mix like pound-cake, 
add the cream last, just before you put in the fruit, and bake 
quickly. 

* Clove-eake. 
Four and a half cups of flour, three and a half of sugar, one 
of milk, one and a half of butter, four eggs, one tablospoonful 



230 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

of oloyes, a tablespoonful of oinnamon, one natmeg grated, a 
tablespoonful of molasses, a teaspoonfal of soda in the milk. 
Yon may add fruit if you like, but it is a very nice cake with- 
out. Mix like pound-cake, and put the soda and niilk in last 
Bake in a Turk's head or pound-cake pan. 

« Connecticut Cake. 

One pound of sugar, one of flour, three-quarters of a pound 
of butter, five eggs beaten separately, half a cup of sour cream, 
a small teaspoon of saleratus, the grated rind and juice of a 
lemon, and one pound of raisins seeded. Mix and bake like 
pound-cake. 

* Bnckeye Cake. 

Three cups of sugar, one oi butter, one of sweet milk, six eggs, 
a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the milk, and four cups of 
flour with two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar sifted in it. Stir 
the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs, beat well, flavor 
with a little grated lemon-peel, then add the flour, and last tiie 
milk and soda. Bake in flat tins. 

* S. E. B/s Cake. 

Half a pound of butter and three cups of powdered sugar 
stiiTed to a cream ; add three eggs beaten separately and then 
together, a tablespoonful of brandy^ a cup of milk, a little cinna- 
mon, two full cups of flour, and a teaspoonful of saleratus dis- 
solved in the milk, and last a cupful of currants washed and 
dried, with a tablespoonful of flour additional stirred through 
them. Bake in shallow pans. Measure the flour for this cake 
before it is sifted ; then sifb it. 

* Com-starch-cake. 

One paper of oam-starch, three-quarters of a pound of butter, 
one pound of sugar, six eggs beaten separately, half a teacup of 
milk, half a teaspoon of soda, a teaspoonful of cream of tartar 
Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, beat half the corn-starch 
in the yolks of eggs and add them, beating well, mix the oream 



CAKE. 231 

of tartar in the other half of the corn-Btarch, stir it in with the 
sugar, fte., then the whites of the eggs, and bst the milk and 
Boda. Flavor to your taste, and bake in shallow pans or in a 
Turk's head. Best when first baked. 

Dover-cake. 
One pound of flour, one of sugar, half an one of butter, six 
eggs, a half pint of sour eream, with a teaspoonM of soda. Stir 
butter and sugar together, add the yolks of the eggs, beat them 
well in, then stir a tablespoonful of brandy and the third of a 
nutmeg grated ; then the whites of the eggs alternately with the 
flour \ beat well, adding the eream as you beat, last the soda in 
a teaspoonful of hot water. Bake in flat tins or all-in one in a 
Turk's head. 

* Peggy's Cake. 
Three oups of sugar, four of flour, one of butter, one of sweet 
milk, six eggs, a teaspoonful of cream of tartar in the flour, half 
a teaspoonful of soda in the milk. Mix like pound-cake, add 
soda and milk last. Bake in shallow tins or a round pan ; test 
with a broom splint. When it does not stick, the cake is done 

Chocolate-cake. 
One cup of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, four eggs, and 
a cup three-quarters foil of grated chocolate. Stir the butter 
and sugar to a cream, add the beaten yolks of the eggs, bea^ 
well, then the whites beaten to a stiff firoth alternately with the 
flour ; beat very hard, stir in the chocolate, and bake in one 
large cake or in square tin pans. 

Sice-cake. 
One pound of rice-flour, one of sugar, half a pound of butter, 
nine eggs, a wine-glass of rose-water, peel of a lemon grated, two 
even teaspoons of cream of tartar, one the same of soda. Mix 
like pound-cake \ cream of tartar dry in the flour, and the soda 
m a teaspoonful of hot water just as you put it in the pans. 
Bake like pound-cake or in fiat sqrtfire tins. 



232 COOKBBT FROM EXPERIENCE. 

Snowflake-eake. 

One scant cap of batter, two cups of sugar, one of sweet milk^ 
one of com-staroh, two of flour, one and a half teaspoons of 
cream of tartar, three-quarters of a teaspoonful of soda and the 
whites of seven eggs. Stir the butter and sugar to a oream, add 
the whites of the eggs, then the corn-staroh; beat all well to- 
gether, then stir in the flour with the cream of tartar in it dry, 
then the milk with the soda dissolved in it. Bake like pound- 
cake or in shallow tins. 

* White Cup-cake. 
One cup of fresh butter, two cups of powdered sugar, four of 
sifted flour^ and a large ooffeecup of rich cream. Beat the 
whites only of five eggs to a stiff firoth, stir the butter and sugar 
to a cream, add the eggs, then the cream, a half of a small 
nutmeg grated, and the rind of a fresh lemon. Stir the butter 
and sugar to a cream, add the lemon and nutmeg, then the 
oream, the flour alternately with the whites of eggs, last a tea- 
spoonful of saleratus or soda dissolved in a teaspoonful of hot 
water. Bake in shallow pans or in a large cake. By adding 
the yolks of the eggs to this recipe you have a fine cream-cake. 

* White Almond-cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one of cream, whites of four eggs, a tea- 
spoon of cream of tartar and half an one of soda, flour as stiff as 
pound-cake, a teaspoonful of extract of almond. Stir the butter 
and sugar to a cream, add the whites of the eggs, then the ex- 
tract, flour, and last the cream of tartar beaten well in dry, and 
the soda dissolved in a very little hot water. Bake all in one or 
in square tins. 

Black Cake. 

Three cups of molasses, one of butter, one of cream, four eggBi 
six cups of flour, a tablespoonful of ginger, and a teaspoonM of 
soda. Beat all well together, soda and cream last. Bake in 
Turk's head. 



CAKE. 238 

* Delicate Cake. 
One oup of butter, three of sugar, one of cream, and four of 
flour, the whites of ten eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; flavor with 
the grated peel of half a lemon, two teaspoonsful of cieam of 
tartar and one of soda. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, 
add the lemon, the whites of the eggs, then the flour with the 
cream of tartar sifted through it, and last the cream with the 
soda dissolved in it. Bake in shallow tins or all in one like 
pound-cake. 

Hyde Park Cake. 
Three eggs beaten separately, two cups of sugar, one of sweet 
milk, one of butter, a teaspoonM of soda, and two of cream of 
tartar sifted in three cups of flour. Stir the butter and sugar to 
a cream, add the yolks of the eggs, the peel of a lemon grated, 
then the flour and whites of the eggs alternately, then the milk 
with the soda in it. Bake in square tins. 

* West Philadelphia Cake. 
One cup of butter, one and a half of sugar, three cups of 
flour, three eggs beaten separately, one cup of cream, two tea 
spoons of cream of tartar, one of soda. Stir the butter and 
sugar to a cream, flavor with lemon-peel, a little grated nutmeg, 
and a pinch of cinnamon; add the eggs, then the cream, then 
the flour with the cream of tartar in it, and last the soda dis- 
solved in a very little hot water. Bake in square pans. 

A Good Cup-cake. 
Three cups of sugar, one of butter stirred to a cream with the 
sugar, five eggs beaten light and added, a cup of sour cream, 
five cups of flour, a grated nutmeg, and last a teaspoonful of sale- 
ratus or soda dissolved in a teaspoonful of hot water. You ma^ 
add firuit, if you choose. Bake in shallow pans or tins. 

Soda-cake. 
One teacup of white sugar, a heaping tablespoonfrd of butter, 
one egg, two cups of flour, and a small cup of milk. Stii 



284 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

together the batter, sugar and egg ; beat them light; flaTor to 
/our taste ; then add the flour with two small even teaspoons of 
oream of tartar in it, and last the milk with a small teaspoon of 
9oda dissolved in it. Bake in square fiat tins. 

Jackson Cake. 

One pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, half a pint of 
rich oream, one pound of flour, and five eggs beaten separately 
Stir the butter and sugar together, add the eggs, fiavor to youx 
taste, then the cream and fiour alternately; beat very light 
Bake in square tins, or all in one. 

* Gold Cake. 

The yolks of eight eggs, one cup of sugar, three-quarters of a 
dup of butter, two of fiour, half a teaspoonful of soda, a tea- 
spoonM of cream of tartar. Mix like pound-cake— cream of 
tartar dry in the flour, the soda last in a teaspoonful of hot 
water. Bake immediately. Flavor with orange or lemon-peel 
grated. 

* Silver Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, three-quarters of a cup of butter, one of 
oream, four of flour, the whites of four eggs, two teaspoons of 
cream of tartar and one of soda. Mix the same as gold-cake ; 
put the cream in last, with the soda dissolved in it 

Oold-and-Silver Cake. 

One pound of butter, the same of sugar, the same of flour ; 
divide them — use half for the gold and half for the silver — ^the 
yolks of eight eggs for the gold, flavored with the juice and 
grated rind of a lemon — ^the whites of the eggs for the silver- 
cake, flavored with extract of bitter almond or peach-water. 

Another Silver Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, two and a half cups of flour, half a cup of 
butter, three-quarters of a cup of creum, half a teaspoonful of 
soda in the cream, the whites c^ fight eggs, and one tcaspoonfui 



r 



CAKE. 285 

of oream of tartar in the floor ; flavor with rose or peach-water. 
Stir the batter and sugar to a cream, add the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, then the flour, and last the cream and 
soda. Bake like pound-cake, or in square tins. 

« Still another Silver Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, one of sweet milk, the 
whites of four eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream of 
tartar, three and a half cups of flour. Stir the butter and sugar 
to a cream, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
the flour with the cream of tartar sifted through it ; last the 
milk with the soda dissolved in it. Bake in square tins^ or like 
pound-cake. Grate half a bar of chocolate, dissolve it in a 
tablespoonful of sweet milk, add sugar to sweeten it^ one egg 
beaten, and a teaspoonful of extract of vanilla ; stir it over the 
Are until it thickens, and spread over the top of the cake. 

* Cocoanut-cak6« 

One pound of sugar and half a pound of butter stirred to a 
cream, add a wine-glass of brandy, beat it well in, then one 
oocoanut grated, six eggs and three-quarters of a pound of flour 
Bake in one cake. 

* Ponnd-cako. 

One pound of butter, the same of sugar, same of flour, ten 
eggSy third of a small nutmeg grated, and the grated peel of half 
ft lemon. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the yolks 
of the eggs beaten light, then beat the whites to a stiff fh>th and 
add them alternately with the flour, flavor, put in a deep round 
pan and bake in a moderate oven. Try with a broom splint. 

* Oiaage-cake. 

Seven eggs, their weight in butter, flour and sugar ; mix like 
pound-cake. When the sugar and butter are creamed, stir in 
them the rind of two and the juice of three fine large tart 
oranges, beat well, add th« yolks of the eggs and the floor aHei- 



286 COOKER T FROM: EXPERIENCE. 

DAtelj with the whites beaten to a stiff firoth ; dissolve a small 
teaspoon even bjl\ of soda in another of hot water, and sdr ia 
the last thing. Bake all in one large oake. This eake most be 
well beaten together. 

Dutch Cake. 

Half a pound of butter, the same of sugar, three-quarters of 
a pound of flour, four yolks and two whites of eggs beaten light. 
Stir together like pound-cake, spread it in shallow pans, and 
sprinkle sifted sugar thickly over the top^ and cinnamon over the 
sugar. Bake in a quick oven. 

Cinnamon-cake. 

Four cups of flour, two of sugar, one of butter, one of sour 
oream or buttermilk, three eggs, one teaspoonful of soda. Spriii* 
kle cinnamon and sugar over the top while hot. Bake ia 
shallow tins. 

* Cocoanut-cake, Ho. 2. 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, four of flour, half an one of 
milk, the whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff froth, half a tea- 
spoon of soda dissolved in the milk, a teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar mixed in the flour, one grated bocoanut. Stir the butter 
and sugar to a cream, add the milk with the soda, then the 
whites of the eggs, then flour, last the coooanut. For frosting : 
whites of two eggs beaten with half a pound of powdered sugar ; 
stir in half a grated coooanut, cover the cake with it when nearly 

oold. 

Lady-cake. 

The whites only of sixteen eggs, one pound of siflbed sugar, 
ten ounces of fresh butter, three-quarters of a pound of sifted 
flour, three ounces of bitter almonds blanched and pounded in a 
mortar gradually with two wine-glasses of rose-water until a 
paste. Mix like pound-cake, and add the almonds last, and bake 
in square tins or all in a large cake. 

* Cream Jelly-cake. 

Three eggs, one coffeecup of flour, and a teacup of sugar, 
three ounces of butter, one teaspoonful of oream of tartar 



CAKE. 237 

dfted in tbe floor, half an one of soda dissolved in a 
lablespooninl of hot water. Stir the butter and sugar to 
a cream, add the eggs beaten light, then the flour, and 
last the sodaj flavor with a very little grated nutmeg and a 
pinch of cinnamon. Bake in jelly-cake tins, and when cold, put 
onstard made as follows between the layers : Two cups of white 
sugar, four eggs, a piece of butter the size of an egg, the juice 
and grated rind of two lemons ; put into a farina-boiler the yolks 
of the eggs, the sugar and lemon-juice. When it begins to 
thicken, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, put 
them in very gradually, and stir in the rind of the lemon. 
When cool, spread between the layers of cake. 

* Custard for Jelly-cake. 
One Q^gy two tablespoons^ of sugar, two of flour, half a pint 
of milk, butter the size of a walnut ; put the milk in a sauce-pan 
over the fire ; when it boils, stir in the rest of the ingredients 
which have been all beaten together, let it boil a minute, stir- 
ring all the time, flavor with vanilla, and when cold, it is ready 
to spread between layers of cake. 

* Jelly-cake, Ho. 2. 

Two-thirds of a cup of butter, half a one of milk, three full 
eups of flour, two of sugar, four eggs, the rind of a fresh lemon, 
a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half an one of soda. Stir the 
butter and sugar to a cream, add the lemon, then the eggs beaten 
separately and then together, then the flour with the cream of 
tartar sifted through it, and last the soda dissolved in the milk. 
Bake in jelly-tins, half an inch thick when baked. Spread cus- 
tard filling between the layers, sift sugar over the top cake. 

* Jelly-cake, So. 8 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, one of sweet milk, three and 
a half cups of flour, the whites only of four eggs, two small tea- 
spoonsfiil of cream of tartar sifted dry in the flour, one small 
teaspoon of soda in the milk. Stir the butter and sugar togethei 
to a cream, add the whites of the eggs, then the flour, then the 
milk and soda. Bake in jelly-cake tins half an inch thick 



288 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCB. 

Pat on the first cake a layer of omrant-jelly; on the seeond, 
shooolate filling; on the next, jelly again, and ice the top of it 

* Coeoaant-eake. 

Three cups of white sngar, one of batter, one of sweet milk, 
foor of floor, the whites of ten eggs. Mix like poand-cake ; beat 
the whites of two eggs with five tablespoonsM of powdered 
sagar, spread over each layer of oake, and sprinkle it thick with 
grated cocoanut. 

* Orange-cake. 

Two caps of sifted sngar, two caps of floar with a teaspoonfol 
of cream of tartar sifled in it half a cap of water a little warm, 
with half a teaspoonfol of soda dissolved in it, the yolks of five 
eggs, the whites of foor, the joioe and grated rind and the in- 
side soft part of one large orange. Beat the yolks of the eggs 
with the sogar, then add the orange, then the floor alternately 
with the whites of the eggs, and last the water and soda. Bake 
in jelly-cake tins half an inch thick when baked. The grated 
rind and joice of one orange mixed stiff with tifled sogar, spread 
between the cakes, the top one iced. This is a very fine cake. 

* Washington Cake. 

One cop of sogar, hotter the size of an egg, two eggs, half a 
sop of sweet milk, a heaping cop of floor, a teaspoon even ftiU 
of cream of tartar, half an one of soda ; stir the hotter and sogar 
to a cream, add the eggs beaten very light, then the floor with 
cream of tartar sifted throogh it alternately with part of the 
milk; the other part dissolve the soda in and stir in last of all. 
Bake in three cakes in jelly-cake tins. Filling — one cap of 
sogar, one egg, two tart apples grated, and the joice and rind of 
one lemon (the rind grated) ; beat all well together, let it come 
to a boil, and spread while the cake is hot 

* White Hoantain Cake. 

One poond of floor, the same of sogar, half a poond of batter, 
fix eggs, one cop of soor cream, one teaspocmfol of soda beatea 



CAKE. 239 

m the oream, three teaspoonsful of vanilla eztraot; stir the 
butter and sugar to a cream, beat the eggs separately and then 
tc^iher, and add them to the sugar and butter, then the yanilla, 
the oream, and flour alternately. Bake in three oakes in jelly- 
oake tins, spread ioing flavored with vanilla between the cakes, 
ftnd sift powdered sugar over the top cake. 

* Queen Cake, Vo. 1. 

Half a pound of butter, the same of sugar, and seven and • 
half ounces of flour, a little grated nutmeg, and a pinch of cin- 
namon. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the yolks of 
five eggs beaten very light, then spice, and the flour alternately 
with the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; butter little 
tins, fill them half full, and bake in a quick oven. Bea^ very 
light all together before you fill the tins. 

* Queen Cake, Vo. 2. 

One pound of flour, one of sugar, one of butter, eight eggs, one 
teacup of cream, a wine-glass of rose-water, and a pound of 
currants. Mix like pound-cake, leave out a tablespoonftil of 
flour to mix through the currants, add them last, and bake in 
little tins. 

Jumbles, So. 1. 

Stir to a cream one pound of butter and the same of sugar 
add a wine-glass of brandy and a little grated nutmeg, and one 
pound of flour, four eggs beaten light ; drop on tins, bake in a 
quick oven, butter the tins. 

* Jumbles, No. 2. 

One pound of sugar, the same of butter, and the same of 
flour, six eggs beaten separately very light, a half of a grated 
nutmeg, and a pinch >f powdered mace. Stir the butter and 
sugar to a cream, add spice, eggs, and last the flour ; drop on 
buttered tins, and bake quickly in a hot o\en. When they 
commence browning round the edges, they are done Take them 



240 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

off oarefiilly with a broad-bladed knife or a bnokwheaft-eakc 
turner, and lay them on large dishes to oooL 

Cocoannt Jumbles. 

Tw3 caps of sugar, one of butter, two of flour, two eggs, and 
I ooooanut grated; stir the butter and sugar to a oream, add the 
eggs beaten light, then the flour, lastly the ooooanut Use sifted 
sugar to roll them in instead of flour, sprinkling as little as you 
can on your slab or board. 

''Soft Jumbles.'* 

Two teacups of sugar, one of butter, one of cream, one egg, a 
toaspoonful of saleratus, and a little grated nutmeg. Mix like 
^und-cake, stir in three cups of flour, then the saleratus in the 
sream, and drop on buttered tins. 

* Plain Jumbles, 

One cup of butter, one of sugar, two of flour, two e^s ; mix 
as other jumbles, drop from a teaspoon and bake on flat tins in a 
quick oven. Flavor with a little grated nutmeg. 

* Jumbles. 

» 

Stir to a cream one pound of butter and one and a quarter 
pounds of sugar, add a wine-glass of rose-water and a small nut- 
meg grated ; beat four eggs separately very light, add them to 
the butter and sugar, then stir in a pound and a quarter of flour 
which has been sifted, and drop with a spoon on buttered tins 
Bake quickly. 

Barbadoes Jumbles. 

Beat very light the yolks of four eggs, add a spoonful of rose- 
water, dust in a pound of fine white sugar; beat the whites of 
eight eggs to a stiff froth and add them alternately with three- 
quarters of a pound of flour ; stir lightly, and drop with a spoon 
n buttered tins the siie of a macaroon. 



CAKE. 241 

Cream Drop-cakes. 

One ooffeeoup of yery rich oream, one cf sugar, one egg, a 
pineli of salt, half a teaspoon of soda ; flayoi with a little grated 
nutmeg or lemon-peel, and stir in flour enough to drop off the 
spoon. Bake on tins in a quick oven. 

* Drop-cakes. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, four eggs; 
beat the butter, sugar and eggs together, add the flour, and drop 
on buttered tins. Bake in a quick oven. 

* CocoaiLut-drops. 

Half a pound of grated cocoanut, the same of white sugar, the 
whites of three eggs beaten light ; stir all together, drop on but- 
tered paper, lay the paper on tins, and bake in a moderate oven 

* Chocolate-cakes. 

The whites of eight eggs, half a cake of chocolate grated, one 
pound of sugar, six ounces of flour; beat the eggs to a stiff 
frothy add the sugar, then stir in the chocolate and flour. Butter 
flat tins, and drop on the mixture, not too closely, as the cakes 
will spread. Bake a few minutes in a quick OYcn. 

* Walnut-cakes. 

One egg, one cup of sugar, one teacup of walnut kernels, two 
tablespoonsful of flour, a pinch of salt ; drop half a teaspoonful 
for each cake on tins, and bake in a quick oven. Roll the walnut 
kernels quite fine before adding them. This may be made with 
almonds instead of walnuts. 

Drop-cake. 

Three cups of powdered sugar, one of butter, five of flour, 

diree eggs beaten light, one cup of sour rich cream, a teaspoonful 

of saleratus, and half a cup of currants washed and dried. Stir 

the butter and sugat .o a cream, add the eggs beaten very light, 

16 



<42 COOKER Y FROM EXPERIENCE. 

then the flour sifted ; beat all well together, then add the eream, 
and last the saleratns dissolved in a teaspoonfnl of hot water. 
Leave ont a teaspoonfiil of floor to stir in the currants. Drop 
on battered tins and bake qniokly in a hot oven. 

Drop Oinger-eakei 

One pint of molasses, a teacup of sugar, one of butter, finir 
eggs, two tablespoonsful of ginger, one teaspoon of salt, a table- 
spoonful of soda in half a teacup of hot water, flour enough toot 
a stiff batter ; drop on tins with a spoon and bake. 

Warm the butter a little, beat it in the molasses, add the 
ginger and salt, a little of the flour, then the eggs beaten light, 
the flour next, a little thicker than you want it, to allow for the 
soda and hot water ; stir this in last; beat up and bake. 

Madeline Cake. 

Three ounoefi of sugar, three of flour, one and a half of butter, 
two eggs> mix as other cake, beat very light, and bake in queen- 
cake tins. — BUU 

* Macaroons, No. 1. 

Blanch a pound of almonds by pouring boiling water over 
them, and when the skin becomes loose, taking it off; then dry 
them thoroughly, and this should be done some hours before 
you use them ; then pound them, a few at a time, in a mortar, 
adding a little rose-water as you pound them, to prevent their 
oiling. When you have them all in a smooth paste, beat the 
whites of eight eggs with a pound of powdered sugar and a 
bablespoonful of flour, add the almonds and two more whites of 
eggs beaten light, drop them with a spoon on buttered paper oi 
tins, and bake quickly. 

Macaroons, Ko. 2. 

Blanch and dry half a pound of almonds the day before you 
want to use them, placing them on a sieve to dry ; pound them 
in a mortar with a pound and a quarter of sifted sugar ; 84d 



CAKE. 243 

gradually tlie whites of two eggs, pound well together ; keep 
adding the whites of eggs until you have used the whites of 
eleven eggs ; beat well, and lay them on paper in pieces the siie 
if walnuts, so they will not touch. Bake in a moderate oven a 
{ght yellow color. Take them off carefully with a knife. 

Kacaroons, Ho. 3. 

The whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth and added to 

three-quarters of a pound of sugar, half a pound of almonds 

which have been blanched and dried, chopped very fine ; stir 

them in and drop on buttered tins. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Meringues. 
Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, stir in lightly with 
% wooden spoon half a pound of powdered sugar, stir gently 
until thoroughly mixed, then lay them on white paper in the 
shape of eggs, sift powdered sugar thickly over the top, let them 
stand a few minutes, then shake off the superfluous sugar, lay 
the papers on boards (not pine), and put them in a moderate 
oven. When crisp and lightly tinted brown, take them out. 
When cool, remove them carefully from the paper, dip a spoon 
in hot water, scoop out the inside, dust them with powdered 
sugar, and they are ready to fill. Fill them with ice cream, or 
eream whipped to a froth and flavored with vanilla, lemon, wine 
or orange-flower water. 

* Crullers, Sfo. L 
Half a cup of butter, two cups of sugar, a cup and a half of 
sweet milk, four eggs, flour as thick as jumbles, two small tea 
spoons even full of soda, and three the same of cream of tartar. 
Stir the butter and sugar together, with one egg (not beaten). 
When creamed, add the other three eggs, then the flour with 
the cream of tartar dry, and last the soda dissolved in the cup 
of milk. Boil them in lard the same as doughnuts; cut 
them in rings. When you take them from the fire, whilst hot, 
roll them in a mixture of cinnamon and powdered sugar ; two 
parts sugar and one of cinnamon. 



244 COOKER T FROM tSXPERIENCE. 

Cmll6rs» Vo. 2. 

One oap of sugar, one of sour cream, batter the size of a walnut, 
three eggs, a teaspoon even full of soda, a little cinnamon and 
nutmeg, flour as thick as jumbles ; mix the same as aboTe. Bo3 
in lard, roll in powdered sugar. 

Crullers, Ho. 3. 

One cup of butter, three of sugar, one of sweet milk, six eggs, 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half an one of soda, rind of a 
lemon grated, as little flour as you can roll them with, about like 
jumbles. Mix like pound-cake, boil in lard, cut in rings. 

Crullers, ITo. 4. 

Five pints of flour, sift in it four teaspoonsM of cream of 
tartar ; stir to a cream one and a half pints of sugar and a quar- 
ter of a pound of butter, add five eggs beaten separately, a 
little cinnamon and nutmeg ; add two-thirds of a pint of milk, 
then the flour, and a third of a pint of milk with the soda in it 
last of all ; roll out, cut in shapes, and boil in lard. Sifb pow> 
dered sugar over whilst hot. 

▼ery Fine Doughnuts. 

Half a pound of butter, a tablespoonful of lard, three-quarters 
of a pound of white sugar, five eggs, one and a half pints of milk, 
and a coffeecup of home-made yeast. Heat the sugar and milk 
together, mix them with flour enough to make a stiff dough, 
melt the butter and lard together, and pour them hot over the 
dough, and work it well in with the hands ; add the eggs beaten 
separately, a little cinnamon and nutmeg, and then the yeast 
Set it over night in a warm place. When very light, next morn- 
ing, pinch off pieces the size of a walnut, handle as little as pos- 
sible, rolling them lightly round ; drop in boiling lard. When 
brown, take them out, and whilst warm sift powdered sugat 
over them. 



yjJOB. 246 



* Plain Doughnuts. 

One pint of milk, two cups of yeast, one heaping eup of mixed 

butter and lard, three even oups of sugar, and as much flour %8 

will make a soil dough ; knead it well together, and set in a 

I warm place oyer night; next morning, if TCiy light, roll out 

I witiiout adding any flour, let them stand a few minutes to rise ; 

boil in lard. 

Doughnut., Ho. 2. 

Four quarts of flour, one pound of sugar, three-quartem of a 
pound of butter, four eggs beaten light, half a grated nutmeg. 
Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs, a little salt^ 
the nutmeg, a teacup of yeast and the flour. Set them oyei 
night, roU out in the morning, cut in shapes, let them ii«»^ again. 
When very light, boil in sweet lard. 

(luick Doughnuts. 
j Three cups of sour milk, one and a half of white sugar, three- 

quarters of a cup of butter, one egg, a dessertspoonful of sale- 
ratus. Mix together the milk, egg and sugar, stir it until the 
sugar is dissolved, warm the butter a little, stir it in, and add 
lour until of a consistence to roll out ; then stir in the saieratus 
dissolved in a little warm water. Boil in lard. 

* Honpareil Doughnuts. 
One and a half pints of milk, three-quarters of a pound 
of sugar, half a pound of butter, half a nutmeg grated, 
a little salt. Boil the milk; when a little cool, stir in 
the butter, then the sugar and salt; and when only milk- 
warm, stir enough flour in to make a sponge, set them over 
night; in the morning, add a little more flour, and let them 
rise again. When light, flour your paste-board, turn them 
en it, roll out, and cut about half an inch in thickness, and 
let them stand on the board, which you must flour to prevent 
their sticking. When they rise again, put them in boiling lard, 
and brown them nicely. Half a teacup of home-made yeast or 
a ooffeeoupful of baker's yeast for this quantity. 



246 OOOKEBT FROM EXPERIENCE. 

Spanish Bunn, Vo. 1. 
One aad a quarter pounds of flour, half a pound of butteTi 
one pound of sugar, five eggs, a teacup of cream. Warm tfia 
eream sufficiently to melt the butter, and whilst warm, stir in the 
sugar. When cool, stir in the flour, then the eggs beaten light; 
then add a wine-glass of mixed wine and brandy, and last two 
teaspoons of cream of tartar dissolved in a tablespoonftd of hot 
water ; then a teaspoonful of soda also dissolved in half a table- 
spoon of hot water ; beat all well together, and add a teacup of 
currants washed and dried with a tablespoonful of flour stirred 
through them. Bake immediately in flat tins. 

* Spanish Bunn, Ho. 2. 
Six ounces of butter, one pound of sugar, three-quarters of a 
pound of flour, four eggs, one cup of cream and one of currants, 
two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, and one of soda. Beat to- 
gether the butter, sugar and yolks of eggs, then add the cream, 
beat it in, and the flour with the cream of tartar sifted through 
it, then the whites of the eggs beaten light ; and when well 
mixed, stir in the soda dissolved in a little rose-water, and last 
the currants. Ice whilst warm. Bake in 'flat tins. Very fine. 

Spamsh Bunn, Vo. 8. 
Three-quarters of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of 
butter, one pound and a quarter of flour, four eggs, a teacup of 
currants, half a nutmeg grated, a little cinnamon, a wine-glass 
of milk and one of brandy. Melt the butter and sugar in the 
milk, sift the cream of tartar with the flour, and stir it in alter- 
nately with the eggs (which are to be beaten separately and then 
together), then add the spice and brandy, last the soda dissolved 
«n a little rose-water. Beat all well together, and add the ouT' 
rants, and bake in a quick oven in flat tins twenty minutes. 

Albany Cakes. 
One and a half pounds of flour, one of sugar, half a pound of 
butter and a teblespoonful of lard, one egg, a tablespoonfiil of 



OAKS. S4T 

rose-wftteri a little oinnamon, and a teaspoonftd of pearlasli dia- 
solved in a oup of sour cream* Stir the batter and sugar to a 
oream witk the lard, add the beaten egg, oinnamon, eream and 
lour Roll out in thin cakes, and bake on tins in a qniok oven. 

A-Fs. 

Cream half a pound of batter and t^•e same of sugar, add a 
wine-glass and a half of cold water, ten drops of essence of lemon, 
a few caraway seeds, and one pound of flour ' roll out as thin 
as paper, and bake on buttered tins. 

Band Tarts. 

One pound of sugar, one of flour, six ounces of butter, and 
two eggs. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs 
oeaten separately yery light, then the flour ; knead them well, 
roll out, sprinkle the top with oinnamon and sugar, and lay a 
few blanched almonds split in half over it. Score with a knife 
the size you want them, and bake in a quick OTen. Paint the 
top of the cake over with white of egg beaten, to make the 
almonds, Ac., stick, before you dust with the cinnamon and 
flugar. To blanch almonds, shell them, and pour boiling water 
on them ; let them lie until the skin loosens, then pull it off. 

Hew Tork Tea Cake. 

Three pints of flour, two and a half teacups of sugar, half an 
one of butter, half a pint of rich milk, a little salt, a small tea- 
spoon of soda, two of cream of tartar. Stir the butter and sugar 
U^ther ; add the salt, a little lemon-peel grated, then the flour 
with the oream of tartar sifted through it alternately with the 
milk, soda last in a little cold milk. Boll out thin and cut into 
■mall cakes. Bake in a quick oven. 

* Oookies» If o. L 

One enp of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, one of milk, 
one egg, two teaspoon eyen fall of cream of tartar, one of soda 



I 



248 COOKERY FROM EZPERIENaB. 

even fbll, nutmeg and cinnamon to your taste ; roll out and iMike 
In a qnick oven (out them in round oakes). 

* Oookiei, Vo. S. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, five of flour, three eggs 
beaten light, six teaspoonsful of milk, with a small spoonful of 
soda or pearlash dissolved in it; stir the butter and sugar to- 
gether until light, add the eggs and a little oinnamon and nut- 
meg, then the milk, last the flour; roll out, out in round oakes, 
and bake in a quick oven. 

Hew Tear's Oakes. 

Stir to a cream three-quarters of a pound of butter and one 
pound of sugar, then stir in three pounds of flour with two tea- 
spoonsful of cream of tartar sifted through it; add half a pint 
of oold water with a teaspoonful of soda dissolyed in it ; stir in 
half a cup of caraway seed (more if you like); roll out into thin 
oakes and stamp with a pattern. These will keep fresh a long 
time 

Bunns. 

One and a quarter pounds of sifted flour, rub into it half a 
pound of butter ; beat two eggs, stir them into a pint of new 
milk, warm the milk a little and stir it into the flour and butter, 
add half a ghuss of brandy and the same of rose-water, half a 
grated nutmeg, a pinch of cinnamon and a teacup of yeast; mix 
all together with a knife and set to rise for seyeral hours. 
When light, stir in half a pound of sifted sugar, and pour into 
buttered pans to rise. You may add a eofleeeup of eurrants, 
washed and dried. 

Bunns, Ho. S. 

One oup of sugar, butter the size of an egg ; stir them to a 
cream, add two eggs well beaten, a pint of flour with two tea- 
spoons of cream of tartar sifted through it, and last a eup of 
sweet milk with a teaspoonful of soda dipsolved ii it. Bake in 
shallow pans. 



% 



CARS. 249 

* Moravian Ca&e. 

A pintrbowl full of bread dough ready for the pans, beat into 
it half a cup of batter, a oup and a half of sugar, and three 
aggs ; beat well together, pour into buttered pans, let it rise an 
hour, sprinkle einnamon and sugar thickly over the top, and 
Dake in a quick oven. 

* Susk, No. 1. 
Stir together until light a teacup of butter, a oolBFeeoup of 
sugar and two eggs \ boil a pint of new milk and pour over them 
boiling hot; stir in flour until a stiff sponge, add half a teacup 
of yeast, and when perfectly light, roll out with as little flour as 
possible ; out in cakes, put them in buttered pans and set in a 
warm place until very light. Bake in a quick oven ten or fifteen 
minutes. This sponge should be set in the evening, kept in a 
warm place, and made up in the morning. 

* Very fine Busk, Ho. 2. 
Two pounds of flour, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of 
butter, one pint of milk, five eggs beaten light, a teacup of yeast 
and a teaspoonful of salt. Warm the milk and butter together, 
stir in the sugar, then the eggs and flour alternately, and set to 
rise in a warm place. Bake it all in one, and out or break it. 
To be eaten with butter. 

Busk, No. 3. 

One quart of milk, a teacup of cream, half a pound of lard, a 
quarter of a pound of butter and a teaspoonful of salt ; boil the 
milk and cream together, stir in while boiling the butter and 
lard ; beat two eggs very light, stir in them a pound of sifted 
sugar, pour the milk boiling hot over the sugar and eggs, stir- 
ring all the time. When cool, stir in flour sufficient to make a 
stiff batter, the salt and a teacup of yeast When very light, 
add more flour, and knead into a sofL dough. Let it rise again, 
then roll out and cut into biscuit, wet the tops with sugar and 
milk. Let them get very light, and bake them in a quick oven 
Biffc sugar over them whilst hot 



860 €OOKEB T FROM EXPERIENCE. 

Bread Biuk. 

Take as much bread dough, when ready for the pans, as would 
make one loaf; spread it open, put on it a ooffeecup of sugar, 
butter the site of a large egg, and a little grated nutmeg; work 
all well together, mould it out, let it get very light, and bake in 
a quiok oyen^ either as rusk or all in one loaf. 

* Dried Busk. 

Boil a quart of milk, stir in it half a pound of butter and a 
little salt. When oool, but not coldy add a pound of sifted sugar, 
flour to make a stiff batter, and a teacup of yeast. Set this over 
night ; in the morning, add enough flour to make a soft dough, 
and let it rise until very light ; then roll out a little more than 
half an inch thick, cut them out the size of tea-biscuit, lay them 
in well-greased pans, two layers in each pan ; let them rise until 
very light, and bake about half an hour in a quick oven. When 
tone, break them apart, spread them separately in pans, and let 
ihem dry slowly in a moderate oven until crisp and brown. If 
they are put in bags and hung up when cold, they will keep a 
jong time, and are nice for delicate persons or young children. 

* Soft Gingerbread* Ho. 1. 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, one of thick milk, one of 
molasses, three of flour, three eggs, a tablespoonftil of ginger, 
naif a teaspoon of soda. Beat the eggs, butter and sugar to- 
gether, add the milk with the soda dissolved in it, then the 
molasses, spice and flour. Bake in square tins about twenty 
minutes. Try it with a broom splint 

* Soft Oingerbread, Ho. 2. 

Five cups of flour, four eggs, two cups of molasses, one of 
sugar, a tablespoonful of ginger, one cup of butter, and a tea- 
spoonfal of soda or saleratus dissolved in a little milk or cream. 
Stir the butter and sugar together, then add the spice, eggs and 
ma asses, thet the flour, and last the soda beat hard, and bake 



CAKE. 251 

in sqaare tins or one large cake. Twenty minutes will be about 
the time required, if in square tins ; if in one large cake, nearly 
an hour. Test with a splint. 

* Soft Gingerbread, Ho. 8. 

One cup of molasses, one of sugar, half a cup of butter and 
lard mixed, one cup of sour milk, two eggs, three cups of flour, 
two teaspoons even Ml of soda, two teaspoonsful of cinnamon, 
one and a half of ginger, one of cloYCS, and a little grated nut- 
nwg Bake in square tins fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Soft Oingerbread, Vo. 4. 

One cup of butter, one of sugar, two of molasses, four eggs 
beaten light, five cups of flour, a tablespoonful of ginger, a tea- 
spoonfnl of saleratus dissolved in a little milk or cream. Bub 
the butter and flour together with your hands, then add the 
sugar, spice, eggs and molasses, last the saleratus. Bake in flat 
pans or in a large cake. 

Soft Oingerbread, Vo. 6. 

One cup of butter, one of brown sugar, a larger cup of mo- 
lasses, three cups of flour same size as used to measure the 
butter and sugar, and one of milk (small), five eggs beaten light, 
a tablespoonful of ginger and the same of cloves. Stir the 
Dutter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs, then the spice and 
molasses, then the flour, and last the milk with a teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in it. Bake in square tins in a hot oven. 

* Oinger Cup-cake, Ho. 1. 

Five eggs, two cofieecups of molasses, two of brown sugar, two 
of fresh butter, one of cream or rich milk, six cups of flour, half 
a cup of powdered cloves and allspice, half a cup of ginger, and 
a small teaspoonftil of soda. Cut the butter into the milk, warm 
them to melt the butter, stir in the molasses, then gradually add 
the sugar, acd let it stand if not quite cool. Beat the eerss very 



262 COOKER T FROM EXPER13NCE. 

light, and Btir them in alternately with the floor, add the ^gei 
and other spioes, beat the whole very hard for a few minntea, 
then Btir in the soda dissolved in a tablespoon of hot water, and 
bake in square pans or Turk's head. 

Oinger Cup-cake, Vo. S. 

One eup of butter, one of sugar, one of molasses, one of sour 
eream, three of flour, three eggs, a teaspoonful of soda and three 
of ginger, a little powdered maoe, a teaspoonful of cinnamon. 
Mix the same as soft gingerbread No. 1. 

Plain Oingeivcake. 

Three-quarters of a cup of butter, one cup of molasses, half a 
cup of brown sugar, one teaspoonftd of soda in a cup of hot 
water, a teaspoonful of cinnamon, one of doves, a tablespoonful 
of ginger, three cups of flour. Stir the butter, sugar and molas- 
ses together, warm them slightly, add the spices. When the 
water the soda was dissolved in is cold, stir it in with the 
flour ; bake in a slow oven in square pans. 

Soft Oinger-cake. 

Six cups of flour, six eggs, four cups of sugar, two of molasses, 
two of thick milk, two of butter, one and a half tablespoonsfu) 
of ginger, and a teaspoonful of pear lash or soda. Beat the eggs, 
butter and sugar together, then add the molasses, spice and milk, 
then the flour, and kst the pearlash in a tablespoonful of hoi 
water. Bake in square shallow tins. 



Oinger-cake. 

A cup and a half of butter, one of brown sugar, two of mo- 
lasses, four eggs beaten together, four cups of flour, two table- 
spoonsfiil of ginger, three-quarters of a nutmeg grated, three- 
quarters of a cup of sour cream, and a small even teaspoon of 
saleratus or soda. Beat all together, and bake in square pans | 
add the cream last. A pound of raisins stoned, and the same of 
currants washed and dried makes it a very nice fruit-cake. 



CAKE. 253 

Oinger-oake. 

Two pounds of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, four oupfl 
•f molasses, two of milk, five eggs, two heaping tablespoonsfdi 
of ginger. Bake in square pans. 

* Orange Gingerbread. 

Sift two pounds and a quarter of flour, stir in it three-quarters 
of a pound of light-brown sugar, an ounoe of ground ginger, an 
ounce of allspice, and six ounces of candied orange-peel out 
small Warm three-quarters of a pound of butter and stir it in, 
then mix to a dough with molasses, joU it out very thin, using 
as little flour as possible, cut it in small round cakes, and bake 
in a quick oven. 

Gingerbread. 

One pint of molasses, half a pint of melted butter and lard 
mixed, one coflieecup of light-orown sugar, two teaspoonsftd of 
cinnamon, three of ginger, a little grated nutmeg, and enough 
flour to make it stiff enough to roll out ; roll as thin as you can, 
out in round cakes, and bake in a quick oven. 

* Crisp Gingerbread. 

Three pounds of flour, one of sugar, one of butter, three table- 
spoonsful of ginger, one of powdered cloves, a teaspoonful of 
powdered mace, and the grated rind of a fresh orange ; cut the 
butter into the flour, and rub it through with your hands until 
thoroughly mixed, then add the spices and orange-peel, mix well 
together and wet it with molasses, roll it very thin, and bake 
quickly in a hot oven. 

* Ginger Snaps, 9*0. L 

One pound of flour, half a pound of brown sugar, a quarter 
of a pound of butter and lard mixed, half a pint of molasses, a 
tablespoon even ^11 of ginger, a teaspoonful of cloves, the same 
of cinnamon and allspice, a little grated orange-peel and flour 
enough to roll it out with. Melt the butter and lard, and stir 



264 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

it into the molasses, add the sugar, spioes, and then the floor ^ 
roll oat as thin as possible and bake in a quiok oven. 

* Ginger Snaps, Vo. 3. 

One and three-qnarter ponods of flour, half a pound of butter, 
a quarter of a pound of sugar, a pint of molasses, one tablespoon 
ful of ginger, one and a half of oinnamon, the same of cloves. 
Rub the butter in the flour, add the sugar, spices, and last the 
molasses. Roll out very thin and bake in a hot oven. 

Ginger Snaps, Ho. 3. 

One pint of molasses, one coffeecnp of sugar, one of butter, 
a tablespoonful of saleratus, and a tablespoonful of ginger ; beat 
all well together, and add flour enough to roll out Roll Toy 
thin and bake on tins in a very hot oven. 

* Ginger Snaps, Ho. 4. 

A coffeeoup of molasses, one of sugar and one of butter^ three 
tablespoons of ginger and one of oinnamon ; boil the molasses, 
spices and sugar together, cool with the butter, add a teacup of 
sour milk and a teaspoonful of soda in a spoonful of hot water, 
flour enough to make a stiff dough ; roll out very thin, and bake 
quickly. 

* Ginger Snaps, Ho. 5. 

One pint of molasses, one cup of butter, a teaspoonful of 
ginger, one of cloves, one of soda ; put all over the flre together, 
let it come to a boil ) have a large vessel or it will foam over. 
When nearly cool, add flour enough to make a dough, roll out, 
and cut in small cakes. Very fine recipe. 

* Gingerbread Huts, Ho. 1. 

One and a half pounds of flour, three-quarters of a pound of 
sugar, and the same of butter, one ounce of ginger, the same of 
doves, cinnamon and allspice, the grated rind of an orange, and 
half a teaspoonful of powdered mace. Mix all well together as 
above, then stir in molasses until a stiff dough, let it stand half 



OAKB. 2M 

•B hour, then make in little balls the siie of a walnut, press 
diem flat, and lay them not to touch in a buttered pan ; bake in 
a moderate oven about ten minutes. 

Gingerbread Nuts, Ko. 2. 

Three and a half pounds of flour, one pound of butter, half 
a pound of brow n sugar, five tablespoons of ginger, three of all 
spioe, two of cinnamon, and a quart of molasses. Rub the 
butter in the flour, add the spice and sugar, then the molassee ; 
mix welL roll out, cut in little cakes, bake on tina. 



I 



ICINGS, ko. 



* White Icing. 

Set tbe whites of the eggs you intend for icing in a cool place 
an hour before beating them — if in summer, on ice ; beat them 
to a stiff froth, and allow a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar 
for CTcry egg — add the sugar gradually, beating all the time ; 
try it by dropping some off your beater ; if it remains on the 
surface a moment or two without sinking, it is ready for the 
cake ; spread it on with a broad-bladed knife whilst the cake is 
still warm, and dry it in the sun or in a cool OTcn for a few 
seconds. 

Chocolate Icing. 

Make the icing as above, and stir in it very finely-grated obo- 
eolate, until as dark us you wish it. 

* Chocolate Filling for Cake. , 

Half a cake of sweet chocolate grated, half a cup of sweet 
milk, the same of powdered sugar, the yolk of one egg, and a 
tablespoonful of extract of vanilla; stir the chocolate in the 
milk, add the egg, sugar and vanilla ; set it in a vessel of boiling 
water and stir until a stiff jelly. When cold, spread it between 
the kyers of cake. Used also as frosting for caice. 

* Chocolate Filling, Vo. S. 

Haf / a bar of chocolate, grated and stirred into a tablespoonfbl 
ef sweet milk ; stir over the fire to a paste ; add a heaping table- 
17 (257) 



258 CO OKER T FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

spoonful of powdered sugar, one beaten egg, and a teaspoonfU 
of extract of vanilla ; thicken over the fire, and spread between 
layers of cake when cold. 

* Apple Filling for Cake. 

Three tart apples grated, one cupful of powdered sugar, one 
egg, the grated rind and juice of one large lemon; put all to- 
other in a small sauce-pan and boil two minutes. When eoldj 
spread between layers of cake. 

* Orange Filling. 

The juice and grated rind of a large orange, the white of one 
egg, and sifbed sugar to make a stiff paste ; spread between 
layers of cake and ice the top one. 



• Lemon 

Two cups of sifbed sugar, the juice of two lemons, the yoDcs 
of three eggs ; mix all together and set in a vessel of boilmg 
water until it thickens \ then add the whites of the eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth. When cold, spread between the layers of cake. 

• Lemon Filling, BTo. 3. 

Two cups of sugar, four eggs, a piece of butter the sise of an 
egg, the juice and grated rind of two lemons ; put all into a 
faiina-boiler and stir over the fire until it thickens ; use only 
the yolks of the eggs ; beat up two of the whites with half a 
pound of powdered sugar, and spread over the top cake. 

* Coeoanut Filling. 

Make an icing of the whites of four eggs and a pound of pow- 
dered sugar, spread between the cakes and sprinkle grated ooooa- 
nut thickly over the top of it ; then lay on another cake, and 

proceed as before. 

* Custard 



Boil half a pint of milk, stir in it a tablespoonftd of eom- 
fltaroh mixed to a paste with a little cold milk and the yolk of 



ICm06j dfc. 259 

one egg ; add sugar to your taste ; boil three minutes, tlien add 
the juioe of half a lemon. When eold, spread between the 
^akes. 

* Caramels. 

Half a pound of good brown sugar, half a eake of sweet oho- 
oolate grated, and a pint of cream ; put all together in a stew- 
pan and boil about half an hour ; try it by dropping from a 
spoon into cold water ; when it is crisp it is done. Pour it into 
buttered tin pans, and when nearly cold mark it into small 
squares with a knife. 

♦Taffy. 

Two oups of brown sugar, one of yinegar, butter the siie of 
an egg ; boil all together until thick ; try it by dropping some 
from the spoon in very cold water ; if it crisps immediately, it is 
done ; pour it out into buttered tins ; mark with the back of a 
knife in little squares, when half cold. 

Hoarhound Candy. 

Pour a pint of boiling water on as much hoarhound as it will 
coyer, steep it on the back of the range for a couple of hours ; 
then strain it and put the same water on a &esh supply of hoar- 
hound, and steep it as before; add enough boiling water to 
XLcasure the pint when done ; strain it, and when cold add the 
beaten white of an egg and two pounds of sugar ; boil it, take 
off the scum and continue to boil it slowly until thick ; try it by 
dropping from a spoon into cold water ; when it hardens quickly 
and crisp it is done ; pour it into buttered tins ; when half cold 
mark it with the back of a knife into little squares. When en- 
tirely cold break it up and put it in jars. It is useful in colds 
and sore throats. 

* Tanilla Ice-cream. 

Une pint of milk to three of cream, two beaten eggs, a tea- 
spoonful of corn-starch, two coffeecups of powdered sugar, and 
the inside of a yanilla bean ; mix the milk, corn-starch, eggs. 



260 COOKERY FROM EZPERIENOE. 

sugar and vanilla together; let them jost oome to ft bdl; then 
take them from the fire ; add the oream ; if not very iweet, 
more sugar. When cold, freeie. 

* Orange Ice-cream. 

Dissolve a quarter of a box of gelatine in a pint of milk by 
setting it in a vessel of hot water ; rub the rind of an orange in 
a little of the sugar you sweeten the oream with, and put a little 
grated peel in the milk; squeeze the juice from a fine large 
orange and stir in the cream. When the gelatine is entirely 
dissolved, stir in it two and a half coflfeecups of powdered sugar, 
and add all to the cream ; stir until cold, and freeie. 

* Coffee Ice-cream. 

Three pints of cream to one of milk, a coffeecup of freshly- 
roasted coffee, two eggs beaten, a teaspoonful of corn-starch and 
two large coffeecups of powdered sugar; grind the coffee and 
make it in a French coffeepot without boiling, getting all its 
strength into one full coffeecup of black coffee, putting it twice 
through the filterer ; mix the corn-starch, eggs, milk, sugar and 
coffee all together; bring to a boil on the fire; then remove 
quickly, stir in the cream, and when cold put it in the freezer. 
All these preparations for ice-cream must be stirred constantly 
whilst coming to the boil. 

* Chocolate Ice-cream. 

To three pints of cream take one of new milk, two eggs, a tea- 
cupful of grated chocolate, two coffeecups of powdered sugar, a 
teaspoonful of corn-starch, and one of extract of vanilla ; beat 
the eggs, stir them in the milk, add the corn-starch and sugar ; 
let them come to a boil, take them quickly from the fire ; dissolve 
the chocolate in a little milk over the fire, stir it all the time ; 
when perfectly smooth, mix it with the milk and eggs, then add 
the oream and vanilla ; if not sweet enough, more sugar. When 
eold, put it in the freezer. 



ICmOS, Se. 261 

* Orange Water-ice. 

The juioe of six and the grated rind of three bne oranges, a 
pint of sifted sugar, the juioe of two large fresh lemons, and a 
pint of oold water ; stir together until the sugar is all dissolved, 
and freeze. 

* Peach Ice Creant 

Peel and cut up half a peck of ripe peaches, mash them with 
a potato-masher, put to them a large coffeeoup of powdered 
sugar } beat up two eggs and put them in a pint of new milk, 
with a teaspoonful of corn-starch and two coffeecups of powdered 
sugar ; bring to a boil ; stir in this three pints of cream, and 
add the peaches ; stir all well together ; if not very sweet, add 
more sugar, and freeie. 



PBUITS FOE WINTER DESSERT. 



t 



* Centre Piece for Dinner-table. 

A very pretty centre piece may be made for tbe dmner-taole 
in winter-time of oranges, bananas, pears, lady-apples and bell- 
fiowers or other kinds of apple, and white and purple grape% 
interspersed with leaves from a lemon-tree or ivy leaves. Pnt 
them in a tall, deep glass dish, with a narrow high vase in the 
eentre, heap the fruit roond the base of the va^e so as to hide it 
oompletely, and fill the vase with flowers and drooping vines. 
This does very well when you have not an ^peigne that eomes for 
the purpose to arrange them in. 

* Ambrosia. 

Peel and slice a dozen tart oranges, and grate a cocoanut; put 
a layer of oranges in the bottom of a large glass dish, sprinkle 
thickly with powdered sugar, then scatter a layer of cocoanut, 
another layer of oranges, sugar and cocoanut until your dish is 
fnll ; cover the top with cocoanut, ornament the dish by putting 
leaf-shaped sections of the peel round the edge ; put them on 
before the last layer of the orange so that they will be held in 
their place, and let them curl over the side of the dish ; sprin- 
kle a Utile sugar over the top layer of cocoanut. 

Dried Fruits. 

Dates, figs and raisins may be mixed in the same dish with 
candied fruits from the confectioners and peach-figs of your own 
make. 

Nnts. 

English walnuts, almonds, pecan and haiel nuts, cream-nutB| 
Imerioan walnuts, shellbarks, boiled chestnuts. 

(262> 



BEVERAGES FOE THE TABLE. 



* Coffee. 

A coffeeonp of ungronnd coffee will make a quart of coffee; 
grind it, scald out the coffee-boiler, put in the coffee with the 
third part of an egg beaten up in cold water, shake it well 
through the grounds, add a pint of cold water, set it on the fire. 
When near boiling, pour in a quart of boiling water, stir it from 
the sides as it boils, let it boil gently for fifleen minutes, stir it 
from the sides, put in a tablespoonfril of cold water, and set it on 
the back of the range for five minutes. Scald out the urn or 
coffee-pot, and pour the coffee carefully in it, and serve imme- 
diately. Nothing spoils more quickly by standing than coffee. 
It becomes flat and loses its aroma in a few minutes. Keep it 

covered whilst boiling. 

*Tea. 

No good tea can be made from water that has stood a long 
time in a tea-kettle and boiled two or three hours before it is 
wanted ; have it filled and boiled just as you want it, then scald 
out the tea-pot, put the tea in it, allowing, if black tea, two 
teaspoonsfril for each person ; pour the boiling water on it, and 
let it stand about ten minutes^ where it will not boil, turn ii 
into the pot you send it to table in and serve. 

* Chocolate. 

A quarter of a pound of chocolate or half a cake will make a 
little more than a quart of chocolate. Mix it in a little more 
than half a pint of boiling water, stir it over the .fire until dis- 
solved into a smooth paste ; then pour in gradually nearly a 
quart of milk or quite a quart, unless you like it very strong ; boU 
it five minutes and serve. Have the chocolate-pot very hot be- 
fore you turn it in. 

(263) 



264 COOKJSRY FROM EZPEBIENCS. 

* Churaiit Shrub. 

Mash the currants in a preserving-kettle, make them boiling 
hot, strain them through a cloth or jelly-bag, squeeie all the 
juice from them ; to four quarts of juice add a quart of water, 
then to every quart of the mixture add a pound and a half of 
lifted sugar ; boil for ten minutes, skimming it well ; then take 
it from the fire and add a wine-glass of good brandy to every pint 
of juice. When cool, bottle and cork tightly, and keep it 
in a cool place. Put two or three tablespoonsful in a glass of 
ioe- water. 

Currant Wine. 

Two gallons of currant-juice and one of water to each gallon 
of the mixture, add three pounds of white sugar, fill the vessel, 
leaving out a pitcherful of the juice to keep it full during fer- 
mentation. Stir the juice until the sugar b dissolved, then put 
it in a clean cask or demijohn, keep in the cellar or a cool place. 
As it works out, fill again from what you reserved. When fer- 
mentation ceases, close up tightly. Tou may rack it off towards 
spring or let it stand for a year, then bottle and seaL If you 
make a large quantity, reserve a gallon for refilling. 

Baspberry Bounce. 

Bruise fine red raspberries, and strain through a jelly-bag or 
thick cloth, and put a pound of powdered loaf sugar to each 
quart of juioo ; stir it until dissolved, cover it, and let it stand 
in a cool place for three days, stirring it up each day ; pour it 
off clear, and put two quarts of Sherry wine, or one of fine old 
brandy, to each quart of juice. It will be ready for use in a 
fortnight. 

Cherry Bounce. 

Put two quarts of wild cherries into a demijohn (do not take 
out the pits), pour on them a gallon of fine brandy and two 
pounds of powdered loaf sugar, shake it up every day for a week, 
when it is fit for use and will keep for years, the older the 
better, and is an excellent tonic for invalids. 



BE7EBAQE8 FOB THB TABLR 2W 

Lemonade in a Minute. 

Pnt two pounds of fine wliite sugar into a presenring-kettle 
with a pint of cold spring water. When the sugar is all dis- 
aolyed, set it over a moderate fire, beat half the white of an egg, 
and stir in before the sugar gets warm. When it boils, take off 
the soum, keep it boiling until no more soum rises and it b per- 
fectly clear; just before you take it from the fire, put in the 
peel of a lemon out off very thin, then set it aside. When per- 
fectly cold, take out the lemon-peel, and add for each pint of 
syrup a quarter of an ounce of citric acid, mix it by degrees into 
the syrup, and bottle for use. A tablespoonful of this in a pint of 
iced water makes a very agreeable drink. 

To a pint of the aboTO clarified syrup add a glass of. Gura9oa 
(before the lemon is put in it), and you have capillaire. 

* Baspberry Syrup. 

Put four pounds of loaf or sifted sugar into a preserving- 
kettle with a quart of cold water, bring it to a boil, skim it, and 
add one pound of raspberries and the same of currants, boil 
gently fifteen or twenty minutes, strain through a sieve. When 
cold, bottle it and keep in a cool place. A few tableepoonsfal 
in a glass of ice-water makes a very pleasant drink. 

* Baspberry Vinegar. 

To two quarts of raspberries add one quart of good cider vino- 
^r, let it stand twenty-four hours, strain off, and add two more 
quarts of berries; let it stand again twei^ty-four hours, strain off 
as before, and again add two more quarts of berries ; let it stand 
twenty-four hours, strain off, and then for every pint of juice 
ftdd a pound of white sugar, and boil half an hour; bottle and 
keep in a cool place. 

* Blackberry CordiaL 

Bruise and squeeze the berries through a thick cloth, and for 
two quarts of juice, add one pound of loaf sugar, half an ounce 



266 COOKEBT FROM EXPERIENCE. 

of nutmegs grsted, a quarter of an oonee of omnamon, and • 
quarter of an onnoe of oloyes and allspice mixed (being half a 
quarter of each). Boil all together for twenty minutes. When 
eold, add a pint of fourth-proof brandy and bottle. SzoellenI 
for diarrhooa. 

* Strawberry Syrupu 

Put the strawberries in an earthen pan, oover them with cold 
water, and mash them to a fine pulp with a potato-masher, then 
squeeie eyery bit of juice from them by straining them in a 
jelly-bag or thick cloth fbr the purpose. To eyery pint of juice 
add a pound of sifibed sugar; put all together oyer the fire in a 
preserying-kettle, $tir until the sugar is dissolyed, then boil for 
fifteen minutes, strain it^ and when cold, bottle it and seal and 
keep in a cool place. A few tablespoonsM in a glass of ice- 
water makes a pleasant drink. Pineapple may be prepared in 
the same way. Pare the fruit, take out the black specks, and 
slice and chop it before adding the water. 

* Eggnog. 

A quart of rich milk, six eggs beaten yeiy light separately 
and then together, half a pint of Sherry wine and best French 
brandy mixed, and three heaping tablespoons of powdered sugar ; 
beat the eggs separately, then together, add the sugar, beat it 
well in, then add the wine and brandy and a little grated nutmeg, 
then stir in the milk. If not sweet enough, add more sugar. 

* A Cooling Drink. 

Pour three quarts of boiling water on an ounce of cream of 
tetar, stir in it the juice of a fresh lemon, and the peel cut off 
jQ yery thin strips without a particle of pulp, sweeten to youi 
»ste with powdered sugar, stir all well together, then let it stand 
antil cold and clear ; pour off without disturbing the sediment 
4t the bottom. A tumblerful iced is a pleasant and healthj 
beyerage fi« a warm summer's day. 



PRESERVING AND CANNING FRUITS 



Procure only fine fruit for preserving or canning. Before you 
oommence, see that your jars are clean and in order, and that 
jou have enough of them. Use a porcelain-lined kettle, and do 
not put more than six or eight pounds of fruit in it at a time. 
411 preserved fruit and jellies should stand at least twelve hours 
before closing the jars or tumblers; if they are closed whilst 
Ihey are hot, the syrup will be thin and watery ; but if left 
until the day after they are preserved, the juice will be rich and 
thick. Keep them in a cool, dry place, and if your covers are 
perfectly close and air-tight, they will neither mould nor fer- 
ment. It is neither the length of time they are cooked nor the 
amount of sugar used in preserving that keeps the fruit, but 
imply protecting them from the air. The method is merely % 
matter of taste. Small fruits — ^as strawberries and raspberries — 
may be put in pint jars ; quart jars are better for larger fruit ; 
Hie fruit is apt to be broken in taking it from smaller jars. 

Jars of canned fruits should be closed and made air-tight as 
soon as they are filled, unless cooked in boiling water ; in that 
Mse close them as soon as they are boiling hot. 

* To Preserve Ouinces. 

Pare them very thin, cut them in half, take out all the hard 
core with a sharp knife, weigh the fruit, and to every pound 
aQow a pound and a half of sifted sugar, and a pint of cold water ; 
put the quinces into a preserving-kettle with the water, cover 
ihem closely, and let them simmer very gently until perfectly ten- 
der, but not broken ; some of the fruit will become tender much 
sooner than the rest. As they are done, take each piece out 

(267) 



268 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

separately with a spoon, and lay on a dish to cool. When nil 
are out, strain the water through a thin oloth, put it baek into 
the kettle, add the sugar. When it comes to a hoil, lay in the 
quinces, boil them until clear, which will take from half to three- 
quarters of an hour, take them from the fire, fill the jars three 
parts full of (he fruit, fill up with the syrup. After filling the 
jars, put the remainder of the syrup in moulds or bowls ; do not 
cover them until next day. This will be a stiff jelly when cold. 
In preserving quinces by this recipe, it is unnecessary to boU 
up the skins and seeds, which always make the firuit and jelly 
dark. 

* To Preserve Pears. 

Pare and cut the fruit in half, take out the core, weigh the 
firuit, and allow three^uarters of a pound of sifted sugar to every 
pound of fruit ; put the sugar into a preserving-kettle with a 
small teacup of hot water under the sugar; set it on the back of 
the range or stove, stir it frequently until the sugar is all dis- 
solved, then lay in the pears, set them over the fire, and cook 
them rather slow until perfectly clear ; set the kettle off the firf., 
take out the fruit with a spoon, without any of the syrup, fill 
the jars three-quarters full, and set the syrup over the fire again, 
cut a fine large lemon in slices, put it in the syrup, and boil for 
ten minutes; then lay a slice or two of lemon in each jar and 
fill up with syrup, let them stand until next day, then make 
them air-tight. This recipe is for ripe tender firuit ; if green 
or tough, you must boil it first in water, allowing enough 
to barely cover the fruit. When tender, take it out, lay it on a 
dish, strain the water, put it back in the kettle, add the sugaTi 
and when dissolved, lay in the fruit, and proceed as above. One 
lemon is sufficient for six or eight pounds of pears. 

* Baspberries, 

Weigh the firuit, and if you wish a rich jellied preserve, allow 
a pound of sugar to every pound of firuit hiU one, take that one 
pound, put it in your preserving-kettle, and mash it as fine as 
possible; then strain it through a thick cloth or jelly-bag, squeea- 



FBESEBVmO AND CANNING FRUITS. 269 

ing out every drop of jaice, set it aside, wash out the kettle and 
wipe it dry, return the juiee to the kettle, and put the sugar in 
it. When the sugar is all dissolved, put in the fruit, and boil it 
quite fast for twenty minutes, skimming it well ; then fill your 
jars, and let them stand in a eool plaee for twenty-four hours, 
unoovered, then close them, making them air-tight, and set away. 
Tou may preserve strawberries in the same way, taking the juiee 
of a quart of strawberries. 

* Cherries. 
For making a handsome preserve, take either morelks or fine 
large pie-oherries, take out the pits, saving all the juioe, weigh 
them, allow pound for pound, put them with their juioe into 
your preserving-kettle alternately with the sugar, set them back 
on the range or stove where they will not cook until the sugar is 
all dissolved, then bring them to a boil, and oook gently for half 
an hour or longer, if they are not clear ; fill your jars, and set 
Ihem in a cool place uncovered until next day, then close them 
up air-tight The screw jars are the best to keep all kinds 
of fruit in, either preserved or canned. Take off the scum as it 
arises from the fruit whilst boiling. 

* Preserved Peaehes. 
Pare and halve the peaches, taking out the stones, make a 
syrup of half a pound of sugar to every pound of fruit, with a 
very little water, not more than half a teacupful ; put the peaches 
in, and boil them fifteen minutes, skimming them well, and when 
done, put them in air-tight jars and keep in a cool place 
Yellow peaches are generally the finest fiavored; the white 
peaches the handsomest preserves. 



* To Preserve Peaehes for Shells or 
Pare the fruit, cut in half and take out the stones ; for every 
pound of peaches allow half a pound of light-brown sugar, pat 
them over the fire in the sugar without any water, stew them 
very gently for nearly an hour, or until perfectly dear, skimming 
them well ; put them in large air-tight jars. They make a very 
liee pie, or to be used on shells tkrou^h the winter. 



no COOKER T FB OM EXPERIENCE. 

* Strawbarriei. 

Procure fine large strawberries, and to each pound allow one 
pound of sifted sugar, put part of the sugar on a large dish ; as 
you hull the berries, lay them on the sugar until it is ooYered, 
then scatter more sugar over them, hull more strawberries Imd 
put oyer the sugar ; continue until the berries are ready for ihe 
kettle ; be careful not to put more fruit on a dish than will boil 
in your kettle ; allow about six pounds of fruit to one preserving* 
kettle. By the time the strawberries are hulled, there will be 
juioe enough to preserve them in without adding any water, 
which spoils this delicate fruit. Put them over the fire in a 
preserving-kettle, and cook gently for twenty minutes, or untL 
clear, skimming them well. When done, put them in screw 
jars, leaving the covers off until next day. 

* Spiced Peaches. 
Seven pounds of fruit pared and cut in half, three pounds of 
good brown sugar, a pint and a half of good cider vinegar, one 
ounce of whole cloves, and half an ounce of mace ; put the vine- 
gar, sugar and spice in your preserving-kettle, boil and skim, then 
lay in the fruit and cook it slowly for two hours. The yellow 
peaches are the best for this purpose. Put them in jars ; when 
cold, cover them to be air-tight. Pears, plums and cherries may 
be prepared the same way. 



» Peach Figs. 
Pare the peaches and cut them in half, weigh them, and allow 
half a pound of sugar to every pound of fruit; put them in the 
kettle alternately with the sugar, heat them gradually until the ^ 

sugar is dissolved, then boil them until clear, take them out with |.; 

a perforated skimmer or a fork, lay them on dishes without any j 

syrup, put them in the sun, and turn them frequently until dry, i\ 

putting them on dry dishes if the syrup drains out of them. 
When so dry that you can handle them, pack them in drums or 
boxes, with layers of sifted sugar, beginning with the sugar and 
finishing with it. Tou may boil more peaches in the same symp 
if you have enough left These are better than fijjs. 



PBESERVmO AND CANNING FRUITS. 271 

* Baspberry Jam. 
Press tlie raspberries througb a wire-sieve, measure the pulp, 
and to every pint put a pound of sugar, set all together over a 
fire in a preserving-kettle. When it begins to boil, skim it well, 
tN>il twenty minutes, fill your jelly tumblers, and let it stand in a 
tool place until next day. Out white paper the size of the top 
of the tumbler, lay it on, and paste thick white paper over the 
top. 

* Brandied Peaches, Ho, 1. 

For this purpose the oling-stone white-heath peaches are the 
best. Pare the firuit, but do not cut them, as they are pre- 
served whole. Weigh the fruit, and to four pounds put four 
pounds of sugar and a pint of the best white French brandy. 
Make a syrup of the sugar and as little water as possible; dis- 
solve it gradually on the back of the range. When the sugar 
is all dissolved, set it over the fire and bring it to a boil ; put in 
4he fruit and boil it five or six minutes ; take out the fruit with- 
out any of the syrup ; put it in the jars ; boil the syrup fifteen 
minutes longer or until it thickens ; then teke it from the fire, 
add the brandy, pour over the peaches and seal or cover imme- 
diately. 

* Brandied Peaches, No. 2. 

Half a pound of sugar for every one of fruit ; pare the fruit, 
put it in a preserving-kettle, cover with water and simmer until 
soft ; take it out without any water, put it closely-packed in the 
jars, put the dry sugar on the top of the peaches, cover them 
with white French brandy, and seal up the jars immediately. 

Brandied Peaches, Bo. 3. 
Prepare the peaches as in No. 1 ; weigh them and allow a 
half pound of sugar to every pound of fruit; make a syrup of 
the sugar with cold water ; bring to a boil, put in a few of the 
peaches at a time and boil until tender; continue to do this 
until all but the last boiling; turn out the syrup, keeping it for 
other purposes, and make a fresh one of half a pound of sugar 
to each pound of fruit, as before; put in the last of the fruit; 



272 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

when done, add the brandy, a quart of the beet white Fmnek 
brandy to every six or seven pounds of fruit« After filling your 
jars, oover them with the brandied synip and elose jnme- 
diately. 

* Brandied Peaches, Ho. 4. 

Take white clingHBtoned peaches; pare them and lay than 
whole in a stone jar— a layer of peaches and a layer of sngari 
until the jar is fuU ; cover with white French brandy; set the 
jar in a deep vessel of cold water, bring to a boil, and continue 
to boil the water round the jar for three or four hours, first 
tying the jar closely over the top with bladder; let it stand in 
the water until cold^ then lift out the jar, wipe it dry and set it 
away for use. This is a fine recipe 

* Quince Hannalade. 

Pare the fruit, core it, cut it in small pieces and weigh.it; 
put it in a preserving-kettle and cover it with cold water ; set it 
over the fire and boil gently until quite tender, then add half a 
pound of sifted sugar to every pound of fruit, and boil until 
clear and quite thick ; put it in moulds or jars, lay a piece of 
fidr letter-paper, cut to fit the inside^ on the top of every mould, 
then paste up with thick white paper. This must not be done 
until the next day. 

* Peach Marmalade, Ho. 1. 

Peel the peaches, cut them in half and take out the stones ; 
weigh them and allow half their weight in sugar. Mash the 
peaches with a potato-masher, and put them with the sugar over 
a slow fire and cook them tintil perfectly smooth and clear. This 
will require three or four hours. Stir them frequently, and 
towards the last almost all the time. Blanch about one-third of 
the kernels and cook with the peaches. When the marmalade 
is done, put it in jars and let it stand until next day ; then 
elose them tightly. 



PRESERVING AND CANNINO FRUITS. 273 

Peach Hannaladei Ho. 2. 

Take ripe yellow peaches, pare and quarter them, allow half 
Uieir weight in sugar ; put them over the fire in a preserving- 
kettle, with a pint of water for every ten pounds of fruit; when 
they commence to cook, mash them with a potato-masher ; cover 
and cook them until they are soft, then add the sugar and boil 
steadily for an hour^ or they may be finished by putting them 
when soft into a stone jar, and set them in a boiler of water, 
which keep boiling for two or three hours, or until perfectly 
clear. 

* Marmalade. 

Half a peck of pippin apples, a quarter of a peck of pears, 
half a peck of peaches, a quarter peck of quinces, two quarts of 
water, and the peel of a large orange grated and added with the 
juice half an hour before the marmalade is done. Put the 
parings and cores of the quinces in the water and boil a short 
time, closely covered to prevent evaporation. Strain them out 
and put the water on the quinces and pears, all cut small ; boil 
them for one hour, then add the other fruit and five pounds of 
sugar, boil gently two hours, stirring often to prevent burning; 
add the juice and rind of the orange, and boil half an hour 
longer. 

* Preserved Tomatoes. 

Procure the little, pear-shaped yellow tomatoes, wash and wipe 
them, weigh them and allow three-quarters of a pound of sifted 
sugar to every pound of tomatoes ; prick each one with a coarse 
needle in five or six places ; put the sugar over the fire in a pre- 
serving-kettle, with a teacup of boiling water to six pounds of 
sugar ; stir it over a slow fire until all dissolved, then put in the 
tomatoes and cook them until clear ; when half done, add the 
juice and rind cut very thin of two large fresh lemons. When 
the fruit is clear, take it out with a perforated skimmer, put it 
in small jars two-thirds frill; boil the syrup fast for six minutes 
more, then fill up the jarS; and let them stand until next day; 
then cover closely and keep in a cool place. 
13 



S74 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

* Spioed Peachei (whole). 

Foorteen pounds of peaches, seven pounds of sifted sugar; 
pare the peaohes, and put them in a preserving-kettle with water 
to cover them and simmer until soft ; take them out with a per- 
forated skimmer and lay them on a sieve to drain. Throw away 
the water they were boiled in, and put the sugar into the kettle 
with a quart of good eider vinegar^ an ounce of whole doves, an 
ounce of cinnamon-stick, and three blades of mace ; boil all to- 
gether twenty minutes ; put the peaches in the jars and pour 
over them the boiling syrup ; let them stand until next day, 
then drain off the syrup, boil it ten minutes, pour over the 
peaches, and when cold, seal up. 

* Citron Melon. 

Pare off the hard green rind, and cut the melon in quarters 
and take out the seed, then cut it into squares or slices half an 
inch in thickness and weigh it. Allow a pound of sugar to every 
pound of citron, put the melon in a pan of cold water with a 
handful of salt for one hour, then wash it in clean fresh water, 
make a ^eak syrup of sugar (not what was weighed) and water, 
put the citron in it and boil ten minutes, then take out the 
citron, throw this syrup out, and make another with the sugar 
you weighed and a little cold water ; put the citron in it, and 
boil until clear and tender, skimming it well, add to it the juioe 
of two large lemons, being careftd to pick out the seeds, pare 
the rind off thin with a sharp knife, boil with the citron about 
fifteen minutes before you take it off the fire. When the melon 
is done, put it in small jars, a little peel in each one, let it stand 
in a oool place until next day, then close up the jars. 

Currant and Raspberry Jam. 

Pick the currants from their stems, and for seven pints of 
currants put ten of raspberries and twelve pints of sifted sugar; 
put them together in a preserving-kettle, boil them an hour, then 
add the sugar, and boil three-quarters of an hour longer, stirring 
most of the time to prevent their sticking and burning. When 



PRESEBYmO AND CANNINO FRUITS. 276 

done, put in small jam or glasses, and let them stand ontil next 
daji then close, them. 

* Blackberry Jam. 
Procure ripe blackberries, weigh them, and allow three-quar- 
ters of a pound of sugar for every pound of fruit. Put the 
berries in a preserving-kettle over the fire, mash them very fine 
with a potato-masher. When they begin to boil and are all 
mashed, put in the sugar and cook them half an hour. Do not 
seal up until next day. 

* To preserve Pineapple. 
Procure fine large pineapples, pare them, and pick out with a 
flhiurp-pointed knife all the black specks, which you will see after 
paring them ; weigh the fruit, and allow three-quarters of a 
pound of sifled sugar to every pound of fruit ; pick the pine- 
apples to shreds with a fork, saving the juice as it drops; put 
all into the preserving-kettle together with the sugar, and boD 
gently for half an hour or longer until the fruit is perfectly dear; 
skimming well ; then fill your jars and set them in a cool place 
until next day ; then close them air-tight. 

*Oreen Oages. 

Wipe them, prick each one with a coarse carpet ^eedle, weigh 
them, allow a pound of sugar for every pound of I lit, put them 
in the preserving-kettle alternate layers of sugar ind fruit, set 
them back where they will warm but not cook ur il the sugar is 
dissolved, which it will soon do if the fruit is all pricked with 
the needle. When this is accomplished, set them over the fire, 
boil and skim until the fruit is clear, which will be in about 
shree-quarters of an hour ; fill your jars with the fruit, three 
parts frill, boil the syrup five minutes longer, unless it has alreadj 
thickened sufficiently, then pour over to fill the jars, set away in 
a oool place until next day, then cover closely. 

* Compote of Oranges. 
Peel eight fine large tart oranges, remove all the pulp, and 
^vide them at every separation without breaking the dividing 



276 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

akin ; squeeze tie juice from four more oranges, and put it in t 
preserving-kettle with three-quarters of a pound of sifted sugar, 
and the rind of one orange cut off in thin strips without a paiti- 
ole of pulp ; lay the pieces of orange in the syrup, and boil them 
about six minutes, take them out, drain them on a sieve, boil the 
syrup until it begins to thicken, put the oranges into a deep 
dish, and pour the syrup over them. This is for filling a vol- 
au-vent 

* Preserved Apple. 

Make a syrup of a quart of water and a pound of sifted sugar 
Pare, core and cut in half ten large pippin or bellflower apples^ 
bring the syrup to a boil, skim it, and lay the apples in and 
simmer them until clear; then add the juice of a lemon and the 
peel cut very thin without a particle of pulp, and a tumbler of 
Madeira wine ; give a boil up, take out the apples and lay them 
in the dish you will serve them in, pour the syrup over, and 
serve cold. 

* Coddled Apples. 

Pare and core juicy tart apples, — pippins are best — make a 
syrup of a pound of sugar to a quart of water, lay the apples in, 
and simmer until tender ; take them out, and lay them on a dish, 
and add the juice and rind (pared off very thin) of a large lemon, 
boil about three minutes, then strain the syrup through a fine 
eloth, put it back in the kettle, and add to it half a package of 
gelatine which has been soaked in a little cold water, give a boil 
up, and pour over the apples ; serve cold. If you wish more of 
the lemon taste, strain the syrup before you add the lemon, then 
put the juice and peel in with the gelatine, give a boil up, and 
pour over the apples. 

* Apple Jelly. 

Eighteen large tart pippin apples; cut them m small pieees 
with their skins on, first washing them ; take out the seeds, and 
boil them in four quarts of water into a pulp ; strain first through 
a sieve, then through thin muslin. There will be about six 



PRESERVIKG AND CANNING FRUITS. 277 

pints of tlie juioe ; boil this ten minutes, add five pounds of loaf 
or sifted sugar ; boil three-quarters of an hour, put in bowls ox 
glasses. This quantity makes about twelve glasses. Do not 
paste them up until next day. 

* Currant Jelly. 

Piok the currants when fully ripe on a dry day, strip them 
from their stems, and put them over the fire in a large kettle. 
When they commence to cook, mash them with a potato-masher; 
when broken and boiling hot, put them a few at a time into a 
jelly-bag or thick cloth, squeeze out all the juice, and to every 
pint allow a pound of sifted sugar ; put the juice over the fire in 
a preserving-kettle, let it come to a boil, skim it well, put in the 
sugar, ^tir until dissolved, then lift it from the fire and fill your 
glasses. Paste up next day with letter-paper, lay a piece on top 
of the jelly to fit inside the glass before you cover and paste. 

* Blackberry Jelly. 

Mash the berries, squeeze the juice from them through a 
cloth or jelly-bag, and for every pint add a pound of sifted 
sugar ; put all together over the fire, and boil twenty minutes, 
skimming well ; fill your glasses, set away until next day, then 
cover and paste up. Raspberry-jelly b made in the same way. 

Baspberry and Cnrrant Jelly. 

Pick the currants from their stems, and put them over the 
fire in a preserving-kettle until broken and boiling hot, squeeze 
them through a jelly-bag or thick cloth. Mash the raspberries 
in an earthen pan with a potato-masher, and squeeze them the 
same as the currants ; then for every pint of currant-juice put 
<nRro of raspberry and a pound of sugar to every pint of the mix- 
ture ; put the juice and sugar over the fire in a preserving-ketdci 
and boO twenty minutes, skimming well ; put it in glasses, let it 
stand until next day in a cool place, then seal up. 



278 COOKERY FROM EXPBBIENCB. 

* Tomato Batter. 

To ten paindfi of fine ripe tomatoes, put five pounds of good 

brown sugar, a pint of cider-yinegar, a tablespooniul of oinnA> 

mon, one of allspice and cloves mixed, and boil gently for three 

or four hours. Skin the tomatoes, and cut out the green eore. 

* Spiced Oantelope. 

Take cantelopes fit for the table, cut them in half, scrape out 
all the seeds, slice and pare them, put them in an earthen pan, 
and cover them with good cider-vinegar ; let them stand twenty- 
four hours, then strain off the juice and vinegar, measure one 
quart of juice for each preserving-kettle of fruit that you may 
have, and to every quart add three pounds of light-brown sugar, 
half an ounce of cloves, the same of cinnamon in sticks, and 
half an ounce of blades of mace; put the vinegar and s^oe 
over the fire with the melon and boil fifteen minutes; take 
out the melon and lay it in jars three parts full; boil the syrup 
fifteen minutes more and pour over hot. When cold, dose the 
jars. This is very nice. 

To Stew Pears for Winter use. 

Pare and cut them in half, take out the cores ; put them in a 
large kettle, pour on them cold water, not quite covering them, 
and let them boil until very tender; then put on them half their 
weight in light brown sugar and a teacup of molasses to every 
ten pounds of fruit ; cook them several hours, until the syrup is 
rich and thick. Put them in large jars, and when entarely 
eold, cover closely. These are very good on pie-crust, or for 
luncheon. 

* Fox-grape Jelly. 

Fill a kettle with the grapes picked from their stems, put on 
them a pint of water, and boil them until the skins burst ; then 
mash them, strain them through a sieve, and to every pint 
of juioe allow a pound of sifted sugar ; boil together half an 
hour, put the jelly into glasses, and next day cover closely. Ton 
may use either green or ripe fox-grapes. 



PRESERVING AND CANNING FRUITS. 279 

* Grapes for Winter Fie8« 

After the first frost, pick the wild grapes, either fox-grapes or 
Ae little winter-grapes, pick them from their stems, and put 
them in a large stone jar, patting a thick layer of grapes and 
sprinkling plentifully with good hrown sugar, until the jar is 
Wed ; then cover them with boiling molasses, and tie them over 
the top with a paper cover ; set them on the top of the range or 
fltove in a pan of boiling water for several days. Small blue 
plums may be prepared in the same way, and make very good 
winter pies. 

* Orape Jam. 

Pick ripe fox-grapes from their stems, slip them from their 
skins, put the pulp in a kettle with a teacup of water, and boil 
them until the seeds separate from the pulp; strain them 
through a sieve to remove the seeds ; allow a pound of sugar to 
every pint of pulp, put them into the kettle with the sugar and 
half the skins ; boil them until the skins are tender, or about 
three-quarters of an hour; put it in forms, bowls or glasses. 
When firm and cold, seal up. 

Candied Orange-peeL 

Peel the oranges with a sharp knife without any of the white 
pulp ; put the peel over the fire in a preserving-kettle, cover it 
with boiling water, simmer ten minutes and change the water ; 
simmer again, and again change the water, and boil until the 
peel is tender. Make a syrup of two pounds of sifted sugar and 
a pint of cold water ; when the sugar is dissolved, set it over a 
moderate fire ; when it boils, skim it, and keep boiling until no 
more scum arises; drain the orange-peel, and put it in an 
earthen pan ; pour the syrup boiling hot over the peel, and let 
it stand two days ; then drain off the syrup, put it in the kettle 
with a handful more sugar ; bring it to a boil, and again pour it 
over the peel, and let it lie two days more. Make a fresh syrup, 
the same as the first ; boil it until, when you dip a perforated 
skimmer in it and blow through the holes, a bubble will form op 



280 00 OKER T FB OM EXPEBIEl^CE. 

die other side of the skimmer; then dnun the peel finom tiM 
first syrup, put it into the boiling syrup, and boil it, stirring all 
the time until the sugar is becoming white ; then take out the 
peel with a fork, drain it on a sieve, and dry it in a oool oven or 
in the sun. When perfectly dry, pack it in jars. It will keep 
for years. Lemon-peel is oandied in the same way. This is 
used in firuit-oake, gingerbread, and mince-meat 

* Crab Apples. 

Wash, wipe and weigh them; allow a pound of sugar for 
every pound of apples. Put them in a preserving-kettle with 
oold water to cover them ; simmer until tender ; then add the 
sugar and boil them until perfectly clear ; put them in small 
jars; set by until next day in a cool place, and then seal up. 

* Canned Peaches. 

Pare the fruit, cut it in half and take out the stones ; make a 
syrup of a quarter of a pound of sugar to every pound of fruit, 
and cold wator to make a syrup; put the peaches in, a few at a 
time; heat them boiling hot all through, have the jars hot, put 
in the peaches and seal up immediately. It is bettor to do only 
as many at a time as will fill a quart jar; seal up and commence 
another. If you do this, allow half a pound of sugar to each 
quart jar, and a little experience will soon teach you how much 
water to put to the sugar ; there should be just enough to make 
sufilcicnt syrup to fill the jar up to the lid ; a pint is generally 
the right quantity. 

* Canned Pears. 

Pare them, cut them in half and take out the eores; lay them 
in the jars to look nicely, until nearly full ; mix in a basin a 
teacup of sugar and nearly a pint of cold water until the sugar is 
dissolved (sifted sugar); then pour it over the pears. Do this 
quantity for each quart jar. Put a thin board in the bottom of 
a large tin boiler, set the jars on the board, and fill up th<» 
boiler with cold water ; set over a good fire, and let it come to a 



PBESERVINO AND VANNING FRUITS. 281 

bdl. Oontinue to boil them hard until the pears are as hot as 
the water all through ; close them up and let them stand untL 
nearly cold, then remove them from the water, wipe them and 
set them away. 

You may can any other firnit in the same way, but pears are 
best done in this manner. 

« Canned Pineapple. 

Select fine ripe fruit, pare them and cut out the black specks 
slice them half an inch in thickness, cut each slice in three or 
four pieces, lay them closely in the jars, filling them up within 
an inch of the top ; make a cold syrup of a teacup of sugar and 
nearly a pint of water to each quart jar of the fruit; fill the jars 
with this up to the top ; place the jars side by side in a large 
boiler in which you have laid a thin piece of board for the jars 
to stand upon, fill with cold water up to the necks of the jars, 
and put the boiler over the fire ; keep them boiling hard for 
three hours, or until the jars are boiling hot all through ; then 
set the boiler eff the fire and screw up the jars perfectly air- 
tight and let them stand in the water until almost cold, then 
take them out, giving every lid another screw, and wipe them 
and set away. If the syrup does not quite fill the jars, add a 
little more cold water before they commence to boil. 

Fruit without Sugar for Winter Pies. 

For cherries, gooseberries, currants, blackberries, prunes and 
other small fruit. Put the fruit closely packed into wide- 
mouthed bottles; take only such as are whole and without 
blemish, and shake them down closel}^ ; have new corks to fit 
loosely, put the corks in the bottles, and set the bottles in an 
oven almost cold for five hours — ^the more slowly they are done 
the better. When the fruit begins to shrink in the bottles and 
is thoroughly warmed through, take them out, and before chey 
are cold, drive the corks in tightly. Set them in a rack with 
the oorks down^ and they will keep for years 



282 COOKEBT FROM BXPERIENOS. 

* To Can Blaokberries. 

Weigh tlie fruit, put them over the fire with half their 
in sugar ; boil fifteen minutes, put them in hot jars and seal up 
immediately. Whortleberries and other small firuit are prepared 
in the same manner. 

Clarified Sugar. 

Put two pounds of loaf sugar in a preserving-ketfle with a 
pint of oold spring-water. When the sugar is dissolred set it 
over the fire ] beat half the white of an egg and stir it in the 
sugar before it gets warm. Watch it oloselj to prevent burning, 
stirring it very often. When it boils^ skim it, and boil it until 
no more soum rises and it is perfectly clear; then strain it 
through a napkin or linen cloth, and bottle it. It will keep for 
months, and is valuable for many purposes. A tablespoonM in 
a glass of ice-water, with a few drops of orange-flower water, la 
a refreshing drink. Keep a bottle of it in the sideboard. 

* Canned Tomatoes. 

Pour boiling water on them to loosen the skins; let them lie 
a few minutes, then drain off the water, peel them, cut out the 
green ocves, squeeze the juice from them and let them lie on a 
^aeve to drain, until all are peeled ; put them over the fire fbr 
about ten minutes, or until they are thoroughly hot ; heat the 
cans, fill them quite full, and seal up each one as you fill it. 

Canned Com. 

Select sugar-corn that is well filled, but not old \ cut it from 
the oob ; put it over the fire in a preserving-kettle ; let it oome 
to a boil. Have your cans very hot, fill them, and seal each one 
as you fill it. If the com is dry, put a very little water to each 
kettleful — about a coffeeoupful. 

Baked Apples. 

Pare and core enough fine tart apples to cover closely the 
bottom of a baking-pan, which has a tight-fitting lid ; stick six 



FBESERVINO AND CANNING FRUITS. 283 

eloyes rcand the sides of each apple, and place them as close as 
possible in the pan. Dissolve for a dozen apples a pound of 
white sugar in a pint of cold water ; add to it half a pint of good 
cooking wine. When the sugar is dissolved, pour the cold syrup 
'^er the apples, cover them tightly, and bake them in a very 
ilow oven for four or five hours. 

Baked Pears. 

Pare, cut in half and core a dozen large baking pears ; place 
them close together in a baking-pan with a tight-fitting lid — the 
brighter the pan, if tin, the better ; strew over them the rind 
of a lemon, cut off in very thin strips without a particle of the 
pulp. Make a syrup of a pound of white sugar, a pint and a 
half of cold water and the juice of the lemon ; stir it until the 
sugar is dissolved, then pour it over the pears; cover them 
tightly, and bake them in a very slow oven for six hours. 

Appld Sago Jelly. 

Prepare as for apple-sauce eight large tart apples ; stew them 
fine in as little water as possible and press them through a cul- 
lender. Whilst the apples are being prepared and stewed, have 
soaking a teacup of sago ; put the sago with the water it was 
soaked in into the apples, and let all stew together for an hour, 
or until the sago is all dissolved ; then add sugar to your taste 
and a large wine-glass of wine ; pour into a form, and when 
oold, eat with cream. 

* Cranberry Sauce. 

Pick over and wash the cranberries ; put them over the fire 
with a piri of water to every quart of berries. When they com- 
mence boiling, stir them frequently. When broken and tender, 
take them from the fire and mash them to a pulp with a potato- 
masher; then add a pound and two ounces of sugar to eveiy 
quart of berries ; put them back on the fire and stir them all 
the time ; cook rapidly foi ten minutes ; pour into moulds, which 
have been wet with cold water and drained, and set in a coo) 



284 COOKERY FROM L'ZPERIEKCE. 

plaoe. ThiB should be made the day before it is wanted, if 
you wish it to turn out whole. If you prefer a jelly, rub the 
sauce through a wire sieve, to take out the skins, before yoa 
put it in the forms. 

* Apple Sauce. 

Pare, core and quarter nice juicy tart apples; stew thena 
until tender in as little water as possible ; when done, rub them 
through a cullender, sweeten to your taste, and if you prefer ft 
flavor, grate in half the peel of a lemon, or add a little cinnamon 
and nutmeg. 

* To prepare Dried Peaches 

Wash them very clean, and put them in a deep vessel with 
tepid water to cover the top at least three inches. Do this 
early in the morning ; cover them and set them aside until next 
morning, or for twenty-four hours ; then put them over a slow 
fire in the water they were soaked in. When they commence to 
cook, set them where they will simmer slowly; keep them closely 
covered, and cook them in this way for five or six hours. When 
very soft, add light brown sugar to your taste (and they take a 
great deal to make them good) and half a teacup of the best 
syrup molasses to two pounds or quarts of fruit ; leave them un- 
covered and boil a little faster until a rich syrup is around them. 
Take them from the fire, and if you intend to make pies of them, 
add half the rind of an orange grated and the juice from two 
fine oranges. If you are going to use them with meat, put no 
flavor in them. 

* To Stew Prunes 

Soak them for several hours until perfectly soft; put them 
over the fire in the water they were soaked in, adding plenty of 
sugar ; simmer for about ten minutes. Take them out with a 
perforated skimmer ; boil the syrup until quite rich, and pour 
over. 

* Dried Apples. 

Wash them clean and put them in water to cover them ; soak 
them all night; put them on to stew in the water they were 



FBESEBVmO AND CANNING FRUITS. 285 

soaked in ; simmer them slowly for several hours. When they 
will mash they are done } grate the peel of a lemon, add it with 
the juice and sugar to your taste. Give one boil up, and pouz 
them out. 

* Prunellas. 

Pull them apart, wash them clean, cover with cold water, put 
more than their weight in light brown or white sugar, and stew 
them in a covered vessel until they are tender 



I 



PICKLES 



* Pickled Cnonmben 

One hundred small euonmbers fresli from the mes; wash 
Uie sand from them and wipe them dry, put them in a large 
Stone jar ; put on the top of them a pint of salt, and a pieoe of 
alnm the size of a nutmeg, and cover them with boiling water ; 
tie thick paper over the jar or place on it a close-fitting lid, and 
let it stand twenty-four hours } take out the cucumbers, wipe 
them dry, place them in a clean dry jar, in layers alternately 
with the following spices : One tablespoonful of mustard-seed 
one of whole allspice, one root of horseradish grated or cut in 
thin strips, a few small red peppers, and pour over them suffi- 
cient vinegar to fill the jars, which must only be two-thirds full 
of cucumbers. When cold, cover them closely ; they will keep 
fixr years. Pour the vinegar over the pickles boiling hot. 

* Pickled Cucumbers, No. 2. 

Wash them to remove the sand, make a strong pickle of salt 
and water to bear an egg, lay the cucumbers in it for two weeks, 
then place them in stone jars, boil the brine, and pour over them 
every morning for nine days, adding more brine if it does not 
cover them; then remove the pickles from the brine, and throw 
them into cold water for twenty-four hours. Take them from 
the brine, and lay them in a bell-metal kettle alternately with 
green cabbage-leaves, a layer of each, cover them with cold 
water, and put them on the back of the range or stove where 
they will become hot, but not cook, until they are a nice green, 
then take them off, wipe them dry, and place them in jars alter* 
nately in layers with the following spices: Oreen ginger-root 
slioed, 9^ dove of garlic and a blade of mace to each layer; bo*1 

(287) 



288 OOOKEBT FROM EXPERIENCE. 

oider-vinegar enough to cover ihem in whioh yon have put wliok 
cloves, allspice, and a lump of alum half the size of a nutmeg to 
every jar; cover the pickles until cold, then tie them up; in 
two weeks thev will be fit for use. 

* A Chow-chow of Pioklei . 
One gallon of vinegar, half a pound of English mu8«ard, a 
quarter of a pound of powdered ginger, the same of white 
pepper, a quarter of a pound of curry powder, and two ouncaf 
of turmeric ; two heads of cauliflower, %Sij small-siied cucum- 
bers, one quart of nasturtiums, one quart of very young string- 
beans, one quart of little white button-onions ; separate the cauli- 
flower into little sprigs, pour boiling water over it ; in another 
vessel scald the onions in the same way, let them stand until 
cool, then drain the water off, and sprinkle over them half a 
pint of salt, and let them lie until next day. Wash the cucum- 
bers to remove the sand, wipe them dry, and put them in a jar ; 
put on the top of them half a pint of salt and a piece of alum 
the size of half a nutmeg ; cover them with boiling water, and 
let them stand twenty-four hours ; then take them out, wipe 
them dry, and they are ready to add to the other articles. 
Take enough of the vinegar to mix the spices to a paste ; mix 
the mustard separately, stir all but the mustard into the vinegai, 
put it over the fire and bring to a boil, stirring all the tame 
then put all the pickles into the vinegar, give a boil up, take 
them from the fire, stir in the mustard, let all stand uncovered 
for twelve hours, l^en bottle and cork tightly. 



Mangoes. 

Take small, smooth-skinned green cantelopes, not larger than 
a turkey-egg or an orange, cut a round piece out of one side, scoop 
out all the seeds, reserve the piece you cut out, for a lid, parbo9 
the melons in a brine that will bear an egg, until a little tender^ 
dry them, fill them with very finely chopped white cabbage sea- 
soned with mustard-seed, pepper, salt, and grated horseradish ; 
put on the cover, tie them round with soft cord, and put them 
in vinegar with exactly the same spices as for chow-chow ; pomr 
it over them boiling hot. These will keep for years. 



PtCKLES. 

* Spanisli PieUei. 

Take diree doien large and fUl-giowA euoitmbeii| ibv laigt 
green peppen, half a peek of mall wliiie onioBB^ kalf a peek of 
green tomatoes. Cut the onoambevB, p^ppen vaA tomatoes in 
pieees, sprinkle over Uimn a pint of salt, and let them stand all 
nighk Next morning drain them well, and add to them an 
oimee of maee, one of long white peppen, the same of white 
mnstard-seedy half an ounoe of eloTes, half an onnee of eelexy- 
seed, an oonoe of tnrmerioi three tablespoonsfUi of JBnf^idi mns- 
tard dry, three-quarters of a pound of good btown mgiti and 
one root of horseradish out in small piMSs; eonr fluMi with 
good eider*Tinegar| and boil half an hour; pul tat bIom m gfaMs 
jaiB. Whesi eold, eorer elosel j. 

«HixedPieUM. 

Ohop a gaDon of green tomatoes, sprinkle o?er them half a 
pint of salt, and let them stand all night. In fiie moniiig 
drain off the water, and add to them six onions slieed, six pep> 
pess ehopped, eabbage out ooarsel; and then ehopped (half a 
head of eabbage), half a pint of grated horseradish, the saair 
of mustard-seed, one tablespoonful of ground eloresy one of blaek 
pepper, two of drj mustard. Mix all well together, paekli)aif 
three parts fiill, and fill up with good oider-Tinegar. 

Piekled Cauliflower. 

Pull the eauliflowers to pieees, lesTing out all the stalk and 
leayes, put them inakettle with water to oorer them, and throw 
in a quarter of a pound of salt to ereiy quart of water, let it heat 
graduallj. When it boils, take out the eauliflower with a perforated 
skimmer, and spread it on a oloth near the fire for twenty-ibir 
Hours at least When quite dry, put the sprigs pieee by pieoe 
into glass jars, and eoyer them with a pickle made by inftudng 
three ounces of curry powder for three dajs to erery quart of 
▼inegar, or boil the vinegar with the eurry powder in it and 
pour OTor hot 
as 



90 COOKERY FROM E2TERIBNCB. 

To Piekle Qniont. 

Take the small roand white onions, peel off their skins, throw 
them in a kettle of boiling water over tiie fire, put in at a time 
as many as will eoyer the top. As soon as they look elear, take 
them out with a perforated skimmer, and lay them on a soft 
towel folded doable. When all are done and quite dry, put them 
into jars. Put vin^;ar soffioient for your onions over Uie fire in 
a kettle with the following spioes : one onnee of horseradish 
the same of allspioe whole, same of whole black pepper, the same 
of salt, to every quart of vinegar; let it oome to a boil, and pour 
hot oyer the onions. Fill the jars only three parts full of 
onions* 

* Tellow Pickled Onoumbers. 

Take half-grown cucumbers, wash them to remove the sand, 
put them in jars holding about a gallon, and to each jar allow a 
pint of salt and a piece of alum the sise of a nutmeg ; put the 
salt and alum on the top of the pickles after the jars are filled, 
pour on them boiling water to cover them, cover them tightly, 
and let them stand twenty-four hours ; then take out the cucum- 
bers and wipe them dry, cut them down the middle lengthwise 
in four quarters, out the quarters in half across the middle, and 
put them in jars three parts ffjXL Make a pickle as follows : 
put in a gallon of vinegar, two ounces of turmeric, half a pound 
of English mustard, a quarter of a pound of ginger, a quarter of 
a pound of white pepper, the same of curry powder, three blades 
of maoe, half an ounce of celery>seed, and two ounces of good 
brown sugar. Mix all the spioes to a paste with cold vin^ar 
trcm the gallon, stir all together in the vinegar, bring to a boil, 
and pour hot over the pickles, filling the jars. When ecdd, 
oovor tightly. 

Shakers' Pickles. 

Take half-grown cucumbers fresh from the vines ; wash the 
■and firom them and pack them in jars. Make a pickle of salt 
and water strong enough to bear an egg ) put a piece of alum in 
it, in the proportion of a piece as large as a nutmeg to a gaUou 



PICKLES. 291 

of piokle ; boil and skim it, and pour hot over the piokles ; let 
tt remain until cool ; pour it off. Boil as much vinegar as will 
coyer the pickles, with spices to taste ; pour it over the piokles 
hot ; put in the vinegar the same proportion of alum as you put 
in the brine. In two days the piokles will be fit to eat, and wiB 
keep for Un years. 

* Pickled WklnuU. 

Take the walnuts about midsummer, when a pin will ^ 
through them easily. Make a piokle strong enough to bear an 
egg ; cover the walnuts with the piokle and tie them over with 
thick paper veiy closely. Let them lie a fortnight, changing 
the pickle twice in that time for fresh. Take them out and lay 
them in vinegar for a month ; be careftil to exclude the air. 
Take a gallon of good cider-vinegar and put into it one ounce of 
whole pepper, the same of cloves, half an ounce of mace and 
the same of nutmeg; bruise them a little, and when the vinegar 
is near boiling, throw the walnuts into it and let them stand 
until nearly cold, closely covered. Put the walnuts in jars, 
sprinkle a little mustard-seed over the top of them and cover 
with the vinegar. They will soon be fit for use, but age im- 
proves them. English walnuts or butternuts are the best kinds 
for thb purpose. 

* Pickled Walnuts, Ho. S 

Make a brine of salt and water in the proportion of a quarter 
of a pound of salt to a quart of water ; run a larding-peedle 
through the walnuts in half-a-dozen places; this allows the 
pickle to penetrate, and they will be ready for use much sooner. 
Let them stand in the brine for one week ; take them out, drain 
them. Make a fresh brine of the same proportions, put the 
walnuts in it and set them over the fire ; give them a gentle 
simmer. When hot all through, lay them on a sieve to drain, 
and let them stand in the air until they turn black. This will 
take a couple of days. Then put them in stone or glass jars ; 
fill them only three parts full of the walnuts, and fill them up 
with the following fickle : To each quart of best cider-vinegar 



292 OOOKEE T FROM EJFBBIENCE. 

put two raiKMB of bUok pepper, one of ginger, nme of nk, 
ludf tut Qnnoe of kUspioe nd half k drMhiu of ujenna pepper. 
Put ell in the Tinegar uid set orer the fire, bring to a trail and 
poor boiling hot over the walnate ; ootot them olooelj, lie dmn 
ti^Uj, and the; will kaep for jeara and inprore with age. 

* Large CaoamlMn. 

Wash them to remove the eand, wipe thorn dry, pot tbeu in 
jam, and for one hundred oaonmben allow a pint of salt and • 
pieoe of alom the site of a nutmeg. Pat the aalt and alom on 
the top of the euonmbers, and pour orer them boilbg water to 
ooTer at least two inohei over the top. Let them at&nd twenty* 
fonr hours ; take them oat, wipe them dry, ont in foor length> 
wise and each pieoe in half. Fill stone or glass jars three parts 
fall of the pieces, and poor OTer them boiling hot the pickle 
with spioee as for ehow-ohow or mangoes. Oreen peaches in 
this piokle are Tory maoh like Indiui mangoes. 

* Cold T0Biat04ftVM. 

Poel half a peek of ripe tomatoes, out them in small pieoos (do 
not ehop them, as it spoils them), drun them on a liere fi» six 
faonrs ; thm add to them one taaonp of salt, one of sngar, one 
of mixed black and whito mnstard^seed, one gill of nastortinnu, 
% good-siied root of horseradish ont in strips or grated, two roots 
of celery, or two tablespoons of celery-seed, two tablespoons of 
bhck pepper, one teaspoon of cinnamon, one of allspice, one of 
ground maoe, and three pints of good sharp vin^ar (cider) ; 
bottle, and it will be fit for use in a week, and will keep fbr 
years. 

• Caonnber^toce. 
One neek of enonmbeis fit for the t«a-table ; pare oflF the rind 
to dice; slice and ring four large white onions; 
rer all a pint of fine salt, and let them dndn on 
six or eight houn; then add to them one tablespoon 
spper, a small teaspoon of cayenne, a few blades <tf 
three or fhnr,— one wine^kss of Hadein wine tad 



F10KLE8. 2W 

liwo of good Bweot oil. Pat into j«i8 and fill with abup nd««- 
finegar. Fill the jars onlj throe parti fUl of the eaonmberf 
and fill up with vinegar 

*Higdo]L 

Sliee and ohop four quarts of green tomatoes and six onicna* 
add one teacup of fine salt, and let them lie all night In the 
morning remove the onions, and sqaeeie the tomatoes through a 
oloth strainer. Chop eight green peppers and add to the mix- 
ture four tablespoons of white mustardnieed, two tablespoons of 
ground cloves, two of allspice and a dessert-spoon of ground 
mustard. Scald two quarts of vinegar and pour over hot 

Kized Piekle. 

OoUeot together all kinds of small vegetables — green tomatoes 
when the siie of a nutmeg, small white onions, nasturtiums, 
radish-pods, young string-beans, pumpkins the siie of an egg 
cut into dice, and any other small vegetable. Put them into a 
strong brine for twenty-four hours;., then wipe them and put 
them in jars with all kinds of spice, and pour cold vinegar over 
them. Cover closely. 

Bordeaux Sauce. 

Two gallons of chopped cabbage, one of green tomatoes sliced, 
one dozen onions sliced, one ounce of turmeric, one ounce of 
whole allspicci the same of whole doves, the same of ground 
ginger, half a pound of white mustard-seed, a gill and three- 
quarters of salt, one and three-quarter pounds of sugar, and a 
gallon of vinegar. Boil aU together half an hour. 

Tomato-sauoe. 

One peck of green tomatoes and a quarter of a peck of white 
onions sliced thin ; sprinkle them with salt in alternate layers. 
Let them stand all night, then strain off the water, cover them 
with vinegar, and simmer gently twenty minutes. Mix together 
half a teacup of ground mustard, a quarfser of a pound of mua- 



294 COOKER T FB OM EZPEEIBNCE. 

tardHwed, half a onp of brown sugar, a quarter of a oap of grouftd 
ginger, half a onp of good sweet oil, and any other spioeB you 
please. Stir these into the piokles when half looked. 

* Pickled Peppera. 

Cut the stems out in a round circle with a sharp knife, and 
lay them aside to replace ; fill the peppers with a mixture of 
finely-cut and chopped cabbage, horseradish either out in slipe 
or grated, mustard-seed and salt. Wash the peppers in oold 
water before you fill them ; then fill, replace the piece you cut 
out) tie them round with soft cord to keep the lids on, pack 
them in stone jars and fill up with cold sharp cider-vinegar. 
They will be ready for use in two weeks. 

Pickled Tomatoes. 

Take the little pear-shaped or round red tomatoes, wash them 
and wipe them very dry } put them in glass jars that ean be 
made air-tight; to a quart of tomatoes put half a dozen blades of 
mace, a teaspoonful of whole cloves, the same of allspice, and a 
few little red peppers cut in rings ; fill the jars three parts Adl 
of the tomatoes, and fill up with good cider-vinegar, oold. Set 
them in a cool dark place, and in three weeks they are ready 
for use. Uie no tak. This pickle is very nice for flavoring 
ragofits, hashes, &e., &o. 

* Oreen Tomato Pickle. 

A peck of green tomatoes, three dozen small white onions ; 
slioe them, and put them in separate jars, sprinkling each layer 
profusely with salt ; let them stand until next day, then drain 
off the liquid, which b not to be used. Take one ounce of whole 
cloves, one ounce of allspice, one ounce and a half of black 
pepper, one ounce of yellow mustard-seed ; put in a large kettle 
a layer of tomatoes and onions, sprinkle them with the spioee, 
then put another layer of tomatoes and onions, more spices, and 
so on until all are in the kettle. Cover it with good cider- 
vinegar ; mix in a paste a quarter of a po'ind of English miis 



PICKLES. 296 

tard with a little yinegar, thin it, and pour over the tomatoes, 
ke, ; stir it thoroughly through them, set the kettle on the baok 
of the range, and let all simmer together for half an hour; then 
put in jars. When oold, cover closely. 

* Hasturtiums. 

Drop them as you gather them into a jar of vinegar; put a 
spoonful of salt in after the jar is filled. 

* Mushroom Catsup. 

Put the mushrooms in a stone pot in layers, with salt sprin« 
kled over each layer, let them stand four days, then mash them, 
and to every quart add two-thirds of a teaspoonful of black 
pepper ; put them into a stone jar, and set it into a kettle of 
boiling water for three hours ; replenish the water round the 
jar, and keep up a fast boil ; then strain through a cloth, but 
do not squeeze it. Boil the juice half an hour longer, and let it 
stand until next day to settle ; then bottle, seal up, and keep in 
a cool place. 

* IValnut Catsup. 

Take young tender walnuts. If you cannot run a pin through 
them, they are too old. Prick each one through with a larding- 
needle, and lay them in a stone or earthenware pot or pan with 
a layer of salt and one of walnuts, allowing a handful of salt to 
every twenty-five walnuts ; cover them with cold water, let them 
lie two weeks, stirring up every day ; drain off the water into a 
kettle, cover the walnuts with boiling vinegar, crush them to a 
pulp, and strain through a cullender into the kettle with the 
jnice ; now measure it, and for every quart, add two ounces of 
white pepper, the same of ginger, an ounce of cloves, the same 
of grated nutmeg, a pinch of cayenne pepper, a small onion 
minced very fine, and a teaspoonful of celery-seed tied in a little 
piece of thin muslin. Boil all together for one hour. When 
eold, bottle it, stirring it up as you lip it out. 



WH aOOKEB T FROM MXPESIBNCE. 

Celtry Soy. 

One peek of tomatoes chopped tod cooked until soft; item 
add a teacnp of salt, half an one of white pepper, a teaspoonfiil 
of cayenne pepper, four onions chopped fine, half a ponnd of 
good brown sugar. Boil one hour, add a quart of sharp eider- 
▼inegar, boil up again ; set it aside. When cold, add half a ovf 
of celery-seed crushed, and two tablespoons of ground dore^ 
and allspioe. Let it stand all night, press through a sicTC, bottle 
andieal. 

* Tomato Catsup. 

Out in pieces one bushel of ripe tomatoes, put them oyer the 
fire and boil them until Tery soft ; press them through a sicTe 
to take out the skins and seeds, add to them half a gallon of 
good cider-vinegar, three half-pints of salt, two ounces of whole 
elof OS, a small teaspoonful ef cayenne pepper, two tablespoonsful 
ef black pepper, five heads of garlic skinned and separated; mix 
all together and boil three hours, or until reduced one-half; then 
boitle without straining and seal up. 

This is more easily and quickly made if the tomatoes an 
peeled before thej are cooked; an onion sliced may be used ia 
the place of the garlic. 



FOB INVALIDS AND SICK. 



* OatmMl OtHAL 

Vor a fluA gruel, mix a tobkBpoonfid of oatmeal witti 
Oirea of mM water. Boil in a aase^paii a pint of water or 
milky poor it bj degrees to tbe oatmeal you hare mizedi retam 
it to the aamee-paii and boil orer tbe lire for fite mmnteai stir- 
ring an file time} seaaoa with a pinob of salt or sweeten to 
taste. If allowed, jou may add a little wine or brandy and 
grated atorlnieg. If yen wish a ibieker gmel, donbb the 
quantity of oatmeaL 

* T«i7 Una Oatmeal OmeL 

Boil a quart of water, stir in it two or three tableapooasfiil ef 
oatmeal, boil it until it tbiekens, stirring it all tbe time* When 
it is tibiek enough, pour it into a fiirina-kettle and let it bml on 
the raoge or store for three or four bonis. When done» take it 
fSram the Are and thin it irith rieh milk until you eaa pour it 
through a tin strainer; then strain it. Add to it a H^e salt 
and a pleee of butter the riie of a nutmeg ; or, if yon prefer 
sugar, sweeten to the taste. 

• Indian OrueL 

One heaping tablespoonfU of Indian meal mixed in a little 
eoU water. Boil a quart of watery pour on it, beat weQ and 
retnm it to the sauee-pan and bofl fifteen or twenty minutes ; 
add a little salt, and sweeten to taste. 

* Sago OmeL 

Boak two tablespoonsful of sago for an hour in eold water to 
eqifer it; then add to it a pint more of ^Id water. Put It on a 

(297) 



898 COOKERY FROM EJPERliKCB. 

ilow fire in & MUoe>pui and stir untO the Btgo b diBaolTed uii 
beoomes tliiekened. If too thick, thin with hoiling wttor. 
Pour it ont, sweeten to taste, and if allowed, add a glass of wine 
and a little nutmeg. 

* AxTOwroot» 

Mix two teaspoonsfnl of arrowroot in a little cold water. Boii 
a pint of milk or water, or half and half milk and water; stir in 
the arrowroot, and boil until thickened and clear; a few tninnfaM 
will do it. Sweeten it to taste. 

* Oysters on Toast 

Put six or eight oysters in a small stew-pan, without any juie^ 
over the fire, with butter the sise of a nutmeg and a little pepper 
and salt. Toast a slice of bread brown on both sides, butter it 
slightly, and when the oysters have boiled up, pour them over It 
and serre. 

* Squab Pigeons, Partridfes or any Small Birds. 

* 

Split them, flatten with a cleaver; broil them over a bright 
fire. Put them on a hot plate, butter them slightly and season 
with pepper and salt ; or you may lay them on a nice brown 
slice of toast slightly buttered. 

« Chieken BrotL 

Put half a chicken into a small stew-pan with a teaspoonfui 
of rioo which has been well washed, a little pepper and half a 
teaspoonfiil of salt. Cover with cold water and boil slowly until 
the meat falls from the bones; then take out the chicken, leav- 
ing the rice in, and serve. Keep the vessel closely covered and 
the chicken entirely covered with water. 

* Mutton Broth. 

Two pounds of lean mutton from the neck. Put it ov«r the 
fire with cold water to cover it , add a teaspoonAil of rice picked 
and washed, salt and pepper to taste. Boil slowly untU the 
meat falls to pieces. Take out all the meat, and serve. 



FOOD FOB mVAluDS AND 8I0JL 8M 

* Sweetbreads 

Blattoh ihcm in boiling water over tbe fire for five minntee; 

then wipe them dry, split them in half, and broil over a dear 

Ire. Serve on a hot plate with a little butter on them, and 

pepper and salt. 

* Tamarind Water 

Pnt a eonple ^ teaspoonsfol of tamarinds into half a pint of 

oold water, stir well, and let them settle. 

* Panada. 

Toast very brown a eonple of stale rusk or rolls, or a sUoe of 

bread. Do not sooreh them. Break them into a bowl; pat 

over them a tablespoonfnl of sngar and a little grated nutmeg; 

pour on boiling water. If allowed, a glass of wine may be 

added. 

Freneh Panada. 

Break a stale tea-biseuit or roll into a sauoe-pan, pour over it 
bdling water to eover Boil five minutes, stirring all the time ; 
add a little salt and a small pieoe of butter. Mix well, and stir 
in it the yolk of an egg beaten in two table«poonsftd of milk. 

m1 up onoe and pour out. Eaten hot. 



* Cream Toast 
Out a sliee of stale bread half an inoh thiek, toast brown m 
both sides, lay it on a hot plate, sprinkle it with salt, and pour 
over it half a eup of rieh eream^ and serve quiokly. 

To Soak Craekan. 
Pnt two large water-erackers in a bowl, pour on them boiling 
water, eover olosely. Let them stand ten minutes ; take them 
out earefiilly, put them on a hot plate, and put on them a little 
butter and salt, or orettn and salt, if butter is >not allowed. 
Serve quiokly. 

Arrowroot Water. 
Wash two fine tart pippin apples very olean, out them up very 
•malli take out the eores, and put them into a anart <^ eotd 



300 COOKEBT FROM MXPXBZSKCE. 

water oyer the Ire and boil uftQ Ike tffim are quite aeft, wUA 
will uke an hoot or more. Mix a teaepoonfiil of anowioot in » 
little oold water yeiy anoolky and allr ia wUk the ippk. I^-et 
all boU ten miniitee; atrain Hirom^ a rieve, fweoten to taate, 
and when eold, nae as a dfinL Ym aaaj pate a little nvtaieg 
o?er the top. 

Ufa Water 

Waah a tableapooafid ef liee, pal it In » alewpan or oroot 
with lid, ponr on it a quart of e<dd water. When it oomei to a 
boil. Bet it where it will efanmer wntil Ilia riea k a pnlp. Let it 
■ettle a little, pour off, and aweeten to taete. Uae either hot or 
eold. Ton may nudte dm aaaae wifli milk inatead of water. 



Slioe two orangea and one lemon, powr ofer them a qnart of 
boiling water, aweeton to jonr taate ; allr oeeaaionally. When 
eold, nae a little at a time aa a drink. 

Half a pint of new •rieb milk| two teblaqmrnaflil of brand j, 
angar te laate; nntmeg grated on the tep, if liked. 

*Tteft Water. 

Out two alioea ai bread half an Ineh thiok, toaat them Torj 
brown on both sides; be eareftil not te aeoroh them, or they are 
not flit to nae. Break them in hal^ pnt them in a pitoher, ponr 
orer about three pinte of boiling water. When eold, strain off. 
If allowed, this ia a Tory pleteant drink with two teblespoonsfnl 
of onrrani jelly, added whilat hot and attrred oeeaaionally nntU 
diasolTod. 

*Bggnog. 

Beat in a tnmbler the white of one egg te a atiff froth, then 
add the yolk and beat it with the white. Sweeten a glass of 
wine with loaf-sngar, beat it in the egg, and grate a little nut- 
meg on the tep. This is strengdiening fbr a oouTalesaent A 
lablespoonfiil of milk mqr be added if praibrred. 



FOOD FOB mrALWa AND moK. Ml 

Ooitild. 

Baal np two agpi, atir iliem fa half a piii of mSk^ swaeteii 
to your taste; set it in a pan of boiling water; atir «fttil it 
begine to thieken, then flaTor with a apoonfU of eztraot ef va- 
aiUa or peaoh-waler^ and aet it in a eodl phoe. 

Wina Wliif . 

Boil a pint of new milk, pour in it wUbt boiling a large wine- 
glaes of Sherrj er Madeira wine ; let it boil np. Wben it aepa- 
ratofly take it from the fire. Let it atand a ftw minnt«% and 
then strain it tlueoagli a tin strainer or thin mnslin. When 
eool, sweeten to yonr taate. 

Ohooelata. 

For a angle enp of ehoeolate, grate a desserts^oonAil fit oho- 
oolate; dissolve it in half a enp of boiling water; bring to a 
boil a enp of rieh milk, stir in the ehoeolate when thorongblj 
melted, boil np three minutes, poor ont^ and ser?e. 

For one Cnp of Golbe. 

A tablespoonflil of gronnd ooffee, povr boiling water ofor it 
in a tin enp; let it stand on the range (bnt not to bml) Ibr five 
minvtes. Poor off elear into a enp, irith sngar and eream. 

* Bye Mnsh. 

Hix into a paste with oold water four tablespoonsftil of rye 
flonr, stir it into a pint of boiling water; boil twenty minntes, 
stirring frequently. To be eaten with eream and sngar, or 
oream and sail 

Ontmeal Hnah. 

Stir into a enp of eold water a teaonp of oatmeal, pnt a pint 
of boiling water into it and oook slowly for half an hour. Eaten 
with eream and sugar or sali A larger quantity will require an 
hour to eook* If in a farina^boiler, whioh is the right way to 
prepare it, boO It longer. 



802 OOOKEB T FROM EXPERIB^CJk 

noar B«1L 

Ha in a thick oloth a bowl of flour u tightly aa poamUe, drop 
It into a pot of oold water, bring to a boil and boil it steadily fbr 
three boon. Hang it up out of doors without opening it. In 
twenty-four hours it will be ready for use. Peel off the outside 
emst; grate it as you need it; mix into a paste with oold watsr, 
and stir it into boiling milk; a tablespoonful will thioken a pint 
This is giyen to infimts in their second summer. 

*nazseed Tea. 

Put a tablespoonful of flaxseed into a pitcher and pour over il 
a quart of boiling water ; corer it and set in a warm place to 
steep for an hour; then add to it the juice of a laige lem<m and 
a ftw strips of the peel cut off thin with a sharp knift ; sweeten 
with white sugar to your taste. Drink a tumbler of it on going 
t bed for a cold. 

* Beef Tea. 

Out a pound of lean juicy beef into small dice; put on it a 
pint of cold water, and let it stand half an hour or more ; then 
put it in a dosely-coyered sauce-pan and let it heat on the range 
(but not boil) for twenty minutes ; then bring it forward and 
boil for six minutes. Strain off and season with pepper and 
salt. This is the best way of making beef tea. 

Tapioca 

Wash half a cup of tapioca and soak it in cold water to corer 
it for two hours; then stir it in a pint of boiling water, and 
simmer until thoroughly dissolved. If too thick, add boiling 
water. Sweeten it when poured out; add a little wine or 
brandy and grate over it a little nutmeg; or it may be serred 
with sugar only. 

* For Dyspepsia. 

Take a teaspoonful of dry bran after every meaL This is a 
simple remedy and a very excellent one. 



FOOD FOR mVALWS AND 8I0X. 808 

* Another Benedy for Djipepsia. 

DisBolye as muoh ohlorate of potash as wLl lie on a three-oenl 
pieoe in a wine-glass of water, stir it until oTOiy little oryslal is 
dissoWedi and take it after meals, or for a sour taste in ilie 
month. Also good for a headache. 

* For a Cold. 

Forty grains of ohlorate of potash in six powders ; pnt one 
powder in a tnmbler two-thirds fall of water, and take a table- 
spoonftil erery two honrs for a oold. For a sore throat, add two 
tablespoonsfU of olaret and nse it for a gargle. 

Soda Hint 

One teaspoonfol of spirits of hartshorn, one and a half tea- 
spoonsfbl of biearbonate of soda, the same of mint water, and 
six onnoes of soft water. Put half the water on the soda, hoi 
bat not boiling. When dissolved, add the remainder of the 
water oold and the other ingredients. Proenre a siz-onnoe Tial 
to mix it in, which will determine the quantity of water to be 
ised. Dose — a dessertspoonflil after meals, for indigestioii 



inSCSLLANEOUS BECIPE& 



To proveat Bright and Dolioato Colon in Poroalo and 

Chinti from Fading. 

DiBBolye five-oente' worth of sugar of kad in a bucket of oold 
ifater, and soak tho dress in it fbr two hours ; then wash it. 



* To clean 

Put half a peck of bran into a washboiler, and fill it with oold 
water, set it oTor the fire, and boil it for half an hour; then 
strain through a sieve a bucket one-third fhU; put as much cold 
water to it as you have of the bran-water, and use with it a soft 
scrubbing-brush ; or if the paint is not Tcry much soiled, a soft 
flannel cloth, but no soap. ' It will make the paint look like new. 
Keep the remainder on the stove boiling hot to renew with. 

* To clean Tins. 

Dissolve a couple of pounds of washing soda in a boiler full 
of water, keep it hot over the fire, put a few tins in it at a time, 
and let them lie for a few minutes ; then rub with scouring sand. 
They will look almost like silver. 

* To clean the Inside of Coffee-boilers or Teapots. 

Put them on the range with a piece of soda in each as large as 
a nutmeg, and fill them with water, let them stand for several 
hours, then wash with soap and water, rinse well, and dry. 
After a coffee or tea pot has been long in use, even if they are 
kept as clean as the generality of servants keep them, they will 
be the better for thb process. 

20 '305^ 



M8 QOOKERT FROM JSJTESimrOM. 

fhe oil from the floweis, bottle uid oork il TIub irill kflep 
jeim, and is exoellent for braises or evts. 

^ For a Bam or Seald. 

Dost the barn tbiokly with floar from a dredging-boXi mad 
It ap in old linen. After ft few minates, the pein will eewMp 
and if kept coTored an hoar or two wiH eaose no fiiriher trouble. 
For a deep bam or soald| stir together lime-water and sweet oil, 
and anoint the parts with a feather dipped in the mixtore, wldeh 
forms a oooling white paste. 

For the Sting of e Hornet or Bee. 

Apply hartshorn to the sting, or a little earth mixed wiili 
water — otherwise called miud^ 

To keep Heat in Hot Weather. 

Wet a clean cloth with vinegar, wrap it roand the meat, and 
pat it on the ice. 

* Salye for Boils. 

One oanoe of beeswax, half an oanoe of powdered rosin, and 
the same of sweet lard ; melt them together over the fire. When 
thoroughly mixed, set aside to cool. Put half a teaspoonfol in 
a poaltice for a boil not yet open, and spread it on thick linen 
or kid, and apply it to a boil a/ter it is opened. 

* Poaltice for Boils. 

Oramb the inside of a slice of stale bread, eOTer it with oold 
water, let it stand fifteen or twenty minates, then boil antil per- 
fectly smooth and thick enough not to ran. Spread it on old 
linen four or five double. This is better than milk in hot 
weather, as there is no danger of its beooming soar; in ^Id 
weather use milk instead of water. 

^Hustard Plaster, 

One tablespoonful of mustard and three of flour. Mix then 
with warm (but not hot) water to a thick paste so that it will 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 309 

m4 ran, spratd mi muslin doubled four times, cover with soft 
old book or Swiss muslin or tarletan, baste it round with a needle 
and thread ; heat Tery hot two large plates hj putting them in a 
bet Of en, pot ike pkiter between the plates to keep it warm 
natil yon prepare to apply it. 

If the eaee is ngent, make the plaster stronger by leaving onl 
peit of the flour. Keep it on for twenty minutes, or until the 
It is lelioved* 



Camphor loo. 

Three draehms ef gum camphor, three of spermaoeti, three 
of white wax and two of olive^oil. 

Pound the camphor fine in a mortar, and dissolve all together 
over the fire. When all are IreU mixed, take it from the fire 
asid beat voU whilst it is cooling. For chapped hands and lips. 

Cement ftr Bottlet. 

One ounce of yellow beeswax and two ounces of powdered 
icdn melted together in a tin cup ; stir in finely-powdered red 
bilck-dust until the consistency of sealing-wax; dip the corks b 
this whilst warm. 

7onltioo fbr % FeloOf or Oathering of any Kind. 

A small head of garlic or half a large one peeled and mashed; 
put it in a small sauce-pan with a tablespoonful of hops and a 
little water, stew until the garlic is tender, then add a tea- 
spoonful of syrup-molasses and a piece of cheese the siie of a 
hickory-nut; stew until the cheese melts (but not until the mo- 
lasses thickens), then add flour to make it the consistence of a 
nice poultice (about a teaspoon and a half), apply it warm, and 
keep it on twenty-four hours ; if necessary, renew it One or 
two poolticea of this kind are a sure cure for a goJiering. 

For Corns. 

Spread a pbster of Burgundy pitch on a piece of kid the die 
ef flie com and appl« it ▲ ftw days will efieet a cure. 



BIO C90KBBT FROM EJTEBIENCM. 

*Ck>iifl^h Mixture. 

Braak into email pieoea one large etiek (rf fiqnorioe and a 
quarter of a pound of hoarhound oandy ; put them in a laigt 
bottle with a quarter of a pound of gum arable; poor on 
them alowly a pint of boiling water, shake the bottle freqnentlj 
until all ia diaaolred, whioh will be in twenty-fonr hours; thea 
add two tableapoonsful of paregorie, the same of aynip of ipeeue, 
and the same of syrup of squills. Give an aduH a taUespooaful 
on going to bed for a oough and cold, and a ehild of four or five 
years old, a teaspoonfal. Thb will oure an obetinate eou(^ in 
a few days, and greatly alleviates the whooping eough. Shake 
it well before using it» and keep it in a eool plaee* 

*ATonie. 

Put into a piteher two single handsful of eamomile flowersi 
and poor on them a quart of oold water. It will be ready fbt 
use in twelve hours. Take a wineglassfnl three times a day fee 
produee an appetite in an invalid. 



DINNER ACCOMPANIMENTS. 311 



for the Inexperienced of the proper Aceompanimenti 
fbr the following Meats, fto., for Family Dinners. 

Soup : — Sippets of toast or bread. 

BoiLSD Fish : — Egg-sauoe, mashed potatoes and oold-slaw. 

Bakbd Fish : — Sauce of tomato-catsup, mashed potatoes. 

Boast Bbbf: — Sweet and white potatoes, macaroni baked 
with cheese, cold-slaw or dressed celery, and tomatoes stewed or 
baked, and horseradish. 

Boast Mutton: — ^Ourrant-jelly, sweet and white potatoes, 
turnips or brown beans, and cold-slaw. 

Boast Vbal : — Sweet and white potatoes, hominy and oold« 
slaw. 

Boast Lamb :— Mint-sauce, green peas, mashed potatoes, 
asparagus and dressed salad or lettuce. 

Boast Pork ob Pio : — Apple-sauce, sweet and white pota« 
toes and spinach. 

Baku) ob Boast Ham: — ApplcHmuce, sweet and white 
potatoes, and macaroni baked in cream. 

Yxnison: — Currant-jelly, sweet and white potatoes, brown 
beans and cold-slaw. 

A-LA-MODX Bsiv :-^tewed tomatoes^ boiled rice and sweet 
and white potatoes. 

BBiF8TXAK8:-^^aked tomatoes, oyster-plant, hominy and 
mashed potatoes. 

YxAL GuTLXTs: — ^Boiled macaroni in sauce, canned corn, 
eold-skw and potatoes. 

Stxwxd Bur : — Sweet and white potatoes, oyster-plant and 
spinach. 

Boast Tubkxt: — Oranbeny-sauce, canned com or^ canned 
peas, sweet and white potatoes and dressed celery. 

Boast Chiokxns : — Cranbeny-sauce, boiled onions, qyster- 
planty oold-slaw or dressed celery and potatoes. 

Boast Duoks: — Currant-jelly or cranberry-sanccy brows 
enkn-sauoe, brown beans and sweet and white potatoes. 



812 aOOKBB T FEOM JBJTJBEISNOJS. 

Birds, OtbtxrSi &o. :— Mashed potatoes and salad or dressed 
oelery. These are served as an intermediate oooxse. 

BoiUD TunKXT: — Oyster-saaoe, mashed potatoes, sweel 
potatoes, spinaoh and dreased eelery. 

BoiUD Chiokxns: — Celery or oyster-saaoe* mashed pota- 
toes^ hominy and ooldndaw. 

BoiLiD Mutton : — ^OaperHmnoe, tnmips, potatoes, and tana. 
toes or baked beans. 

Boiuo GoiurxD Bm :— Tomato-eatsnp, browned parsnips 
or parsnips in sanee, potatoes and beets, or boiled oabbage with 
drawn butter. 

LcNSsm SaIiAD : — Mashed potato. An intermediate eonxse 

Orsm-ni : — ^Mashed potato, and salad or ooldnBlaw. 

Bboiuu) GmoKiif 8 :-*String-beans, squashes, new potatoes, 
sweet eom, new beets. 

Frioassbid GmoKBK : — ^Anj snmmer vegetables. 

All idnds of summer regetables with any poultry or meal 

BreakfiMt Bdishes. 

Omelettes of different kinds. Eggs, boiled, fried, baked or 
sorambled. Sausage. Scrapple. Beefsteak. Maokerel* IVesh 
Fish fried, as smelts or other pan-fish. Fresh Mackerel, broiled. 
Ham, fried, frissled, stewed or broiled. OalTs layer with oreson. 
gravy, or fried plainly. Stewed Kidneys. Sweetbreads. Oys- 
ters. Meat-balls. Fish-balls. Croquettes. Com-oystem. 
Clam-fritters. Potatoes, fried, stewed, lyonabe, German, cro- 
quettes, potato-balls or Saratoga. Baked or Stewed Hash. Ba- 
gotlts of Meat or Poultry. Fried Tomatoes. Egg-plant^ fried. 
Mutton Chops. Broiled Chickens. Broiled Smoked Shad. 
Broiled Smoked Salmon. Stewed Tripe* Broiled Shad. 
Kckled Beefs Liver, fdiiled. CalTs Liver with mushroonu 
Sweetbreads with mushrooms. Fried Mush. BroOed and Fried 
Tomatoes. 

Eelishes for Tea or Supper. 

Friiiled Beef . FrisiledHam. Potted Beef. Cottage-oheese, 
Welsh-rarebit Birds. Broiled Chicken. Badishes. Oysters, 



BlSUSaSS FOB TEA OB SUPPBB. 31t 

Jtewedi fried, panned or broiled. Croqneitesv Sweetbretdi. 
Piokled Ojstem. Stewed Lobster. Lobeter-eeallop. DoTiUed 
Lobster. Deyilled Grabs. Terrapins. Fried Grabs. Little 
Sand-olams stewed or fried. Bewitohed Veal. SaTorj Meat. 
Bpioed Salmon. Broiled Smoked Salmon. Broiled Herring. 
Smoked Shad broOed. GalTs-bead Terrapin. Beef Terrapin. 
LiTor Terrapin. Stewed Tripe. Fresh Shad broiled Potted 
hemng. Gorn-oysters. Gom-pndding. Galf s Lirer with 
eream-grayy. Pressed Beef. Mutton Birds. Beef Birds. 
Frieasseed Ghioken. Frogs. Birds on toast or roMted. Gold 
Tongue. Gold Boiled Ham. Sweetbreads, browned, stewed, 
with mushrooms^ or broiled. Stewed Mushrooms. Mutton 
Venison. Venison Steaks. Hogshead Gheese. Pig^s Feet in 
jelly. Ghieken Salad. Lobster Salad. Pig's Feel stewed. 
Spioed Salmon. Bpioed Stuigeon. Stewed Tripe. Tomato 
Salad. Ottommben. 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



TO 00 BY FOR THE RECIPES IN THIS BOOK 



AToiidnpoii Weight 



8 dnolmiB, 1 oonoe. 

16 oanoefl, 1 poimd. 

28 poundsi . . . • • 1 quarter of a hundred. 



Liquid Meeeiire 

4 gillB, 1 pint 

2 pints, 1 quart 

4 qvartey 1 gallon. 



Dry Keatnre. 

2 pifita, 1 quart. 

8 quarts, 1 peek. 

4 peokfl, 1 bushel 



A mediumHsdied teaspoon oontams about a drachm. 
Four teaspoons are equal to one tablespoon* 
Four tablespoons are equal to one wine-glass. 
A wine-glass holds half a gill. 
A tablespoon holds half an ounce. 



A BILL OP PARE 

rOB BACH SEASON OF THB TBAB 
VOB A FAMILT OF FIVE OR SIX PBBS0N8. 



Spring. 

First Coursb. 
G^reen-pea Soup 

SlOOND COURSI 

Baked Shad. 



Third Coursi. 

Boast Lamb, mint-saaoe. 
Oroea Peaa. Asparagus. Potatoes. Tomatoes. 

Fourth Oourss. 

Lobster-salad. 

FirTH OouRsi. 
Bhubarb-tart Boiled Custard. 



8ie COOKERY FROM EJTEEIEKOK 

Bummer. 

FlEST OOUEBX. 

Plain Calf 's-head Soap. 

Sboond Oouksb. 

Broiled Chickens. Baked Ham. 

Peas. Stiixig-beans. New Potatoes in saueei Yevng Beets 

Sweet Corn. 

ThIBD CO0BBB. 

Veal Oroqnettes, made from the ealf' s head. Dressed Sala^ 

Fourth Oouesb. 
Fmii-pie or tart. Fruit and Oieam. 



AntuuL 

FiBST COUBBB. 

Julienne Soap. 

Sboond Coubsb. 

Boast Chickens. Beef-steak, 

lima Beans. Tomatoes. Cranberry-sanoe. PotetoM 

Sweet Corn. 

Thibd Coubsb. 
Sweetbreads. Oreen Peas. 

FOUBTH COUBBB. 

Charlotte Russe. Hot Padding, wine-saooe 

FlVTH COUEBB. 

Frait Nats. 



BILLS OF FARE. Hf 



Winter. 

FimsT OouEBi. 
Ox-toil Soup. 

Sboond C|onB8i. 
Boiled Roek-fishy egg-mioe. 

Thibd GOUBSI. 

AomH Turkey. Oyster Pie. 

ftmberry-eraoe. Sweet uid White Pototoee. Ginned Corn 

Spinaeh. 



FOUETH OOUB8B. 

Toiigve on mashed pototo. Dressed Oekcy. 



Fifth Ooubsb. 
Kinee-pie. loe-oream and Oake. 

Sixth Ooubbb. 
Fraii and Nnto. 



COOKEBT FROM EXPERIENCE. 



For a Dinner for Fourteen Fereone. 

FiBST CouBsn. 
Baw jsten on the ehelL 

SlOOND GOUBSl. 

Mock-tortle Soap. 

Thibd G0UB8B. 
Boiled Salmon, egg-aanee 

FOUBTH OOUBSI. 

Boast Tnrkey. Boiled Turkey. Boast Beef. 

Cranberry-aauoe. Oyster-eanoe. 

Sweet and White Potatoes. Canned Peas. Stewed Tomakyea 

FifTH COUB8I. 

Boast Partridges. Fried Oysters. Dressed Salad. 

Sixth Coubsi. 
Plum Pudding. loe-eream and Cake. 

Sbyinth Coubsi. 
Fmit Nuts. Coffee. 






INDEX. 



4«MmpaBim«iti for fiunily dianerfi 

SU. 
A-]»-mod« hmt, SL 
Albany oakM, Md. 
Almond blane-maagVy 209. 
pudding, 178. 
white 9§k% 2S2. 
Almonds, Udy onko withont, 219. 
Alpnen, bUek, to elonn, t06. 
Ambor oftko, SS4. 
•onp, 11. 
Ambroii% S6S. 
AnoboTj fnnoo^ 118. 

tOMt»28. 
A.-P.% M7. 
Appk^ baked, S82. 

bird'i-noft, Sit. 
ooddUd, 200, 270. 
•niterd. No. 1, 202. 
No. 2, 202. 
drlod, to ftow, 284. 
daaq^lingt, bakod, 178. 
boUed, 178. 
emit for, 168. 
illing for eako, 288. 
toat, 202. 
frittmri, 206. 
JaUy, 276. 
mOringno^ 207. 
pla, No. 1, 171 
No. 2, 178. 
a Torj good, 178. 
proMTTod, 276. 
pndding. No. 1, 179. 
No. 2, 179. 
No. 8, 179. 
Mgo jelij, 288. 
faneo^284. 

■liwod for Tol-an-?«B<^ 171. 
Iiplooa^ No. 1, 200. 
No. 2, 200. 



Arrowroot^ 298. 

watar, 299. 
Afparagnf , 148. 
Antomn, bill of for* for^ 816. 
Bakod applof, 282. 

applo dnmpUng^ 178» 
oalf' • head, 60. 
eof tard, 202. 
eggs^ lis. 
egg-plant, 186. 
floor pndding. No. 1, 179, 
No. 2, 180. 
ham, 82. 

ham and Teal, 67. 
Indian pndding, 180. 
maoaroni, 188. 
pearf, 288. 
pork and beani, 87. 
potatoes, 127. 
shad, 20. 
tomatoes, 140. 
Barbaaoes Jnmbles, 240. 
Barbeened ehioken, 79. 
Batter pndding, 198. 
Bararian cream, 214. 
Beans, brown, Froneh, 141. 
Lima, 148. 
string, 182. 
Bee^ remedj for sting ot 808. 
Beef, 80. 

a-la-mode, 81. 
balls, 48. 
birds, 88. 
boniUi, 84. 
brisket, 88. 
corned, 42. 
forcemeat, 111. 
friiiled dried, 88. 

with sffsimt 

No. 8, 89 
haiht88. 

(819) 



DWBJL 



llTtr, piektod. Si. 
pl«kk for Mnii^ 4lL 

potted^a. 



ngovt of ool^ No. If tfb 

romft» M. 

with TotlnUn pvMlai^ M. 
rooad* nltodf tii 
nuB|^ ftMkt floirtdt tf • 
MTorj, 4L 
ilrloiBf tS» 
lompt 11. 
fplMdy 9«b 1, It. 

HMk, broUod, tS. 

p«ddlmg|4S. 

•towod, SSylS. 

ttaftdytt. 
itnvtdflS. 
■taffid,4L 

longa« bomUli, tt. 

BMif, isr. 

Bowilehtd tmI, 68. 
Bfllf of f MO for aat«Bui| SIS. 

■prtngi Sll. 
•UBBiori SIS. 
wiatov, SIS. 
fottrlMr%ptnoM,S14 
Birdii boot 9$. 

mnttoBy 4S. 
Bird'f-noity SIS. 

opplOy SIT. 
BUevityfoyoClSO. 

Moiyload, No. 1, 141 
No. 2, 14S 
No. S, US 
potfttOy ISl. 
8odft»lM. 
to% No. 1, ISS. 
No. S, 161. 
•<rr Sno, 149. 
Blaek »ipoo% to oioooi Sod. 
booB lovp, 14i 



Blftdk oako» SSS, ISli 
padding ISS. 

BlMkbttij oordlal, Sii. 
JuA^STSw 

joUjy Sty. 

Bttokf SSS« 
BIlPO ■■■1% SSf . 

afaMB^SStb 
ih o oo lml o, No. !» Slii 
No.l»ll«. 
No.t»Sl« 

OOIBoflOV^f SSS. 

•rant Sit. 
gol«tiBi^ HI. 



Sll. 
rloo^SU. 
BUn^wtlo of Tool, SS. 
BloffyFrolyoUokoB 

Bi«o d7o> ssy. 

BoOod applo dvmpllBft IfS. 

bikttor pvddlBf, ISS, liSL 
oldokoBi, td. 
oodiUli, It. 
osf Utfda, Itf 9 SItL 

OggOtllS. 

Uddook, It. 
hoUbot, S4. 
Xadioa p«ddla|^ 1st. 
log of Bivtto% 44. 

KMMOB^ Ity. 

fko^ldS. 
rookftihy It. 
MJmoii, It. 
u^Mtj, 1S4. 
•mokod toagst^ SS. 
ftttrgooA, SI. 
tnrkojy fS. 
Botllag, rooittaig, 4o.| rauiki 
BoBod tiirkoj, TS, 74. 
BordoMUK Mnoo^ StS. 
Boonoe, ehonry, St4. 

rMpbon7tSt4. 
Broiflod ehiekoBy TT. 
Bruidiod pooohot, No^ !» SfS. 

No. ^ SYS. 
No.S»SfS. 
N0b4»sy4» 



liSL 



nfDEx. 



S21 



ftr«ad ud »ppl« pudding, 181. 
and batter pudding, 181. 
bisoait, 148. 
browttf No. 1, 147. 
No. t, 147. 
eakof, 156. 
Canada egg, 155. 
ooni, No. 1, 164. 
No. S, 184. 
No. 3, 164. 
No. 4, 165. 
dried, 151. 
fHtters, 206. 
MiBiiaaippi oom, 165. 
mountain, No. 1, 147. 
No. 2, 147. 
No. 8, 148. 
mnfflnf, 160. 
padding, 107. 
nuk, 250. 
ije, 148. 
Saratoga, 148. 
wheat, No. 1, 146. 
No. 2, 147. 
BnakfMt eake. No. 1, 155. 
No. 2, 155. 
Indian meal, 156. 
oatmeal, 157. 
pvdding,New Knglaad,159 
raliihes, 812. 
rollf, 151. 
BitMt of Teal, 68. 

itaffed,69. 
Bielled ebleken, 77. 
halibat,24. 
ham, 54. 
oyitert, 91. 
pigeona, 80. 
ihad, 28. 
•weetbreadf , 66. 
tomatoes, 187. 
Brook treaty 22. 
Brothy ehioken, 208. 

matton, 12, 208. 
Brown betiy podding, 100. 
bread, 147. 
frenoh beanf, 142. 
frioauee of ohieken, Ti. 
omion lanoe^ 142. 
aonp of ohiekeni , 11. 

21 



Browned floor, 115. 

potatooB, 127. 
tweet potatoeiy 180* 
Browning for loop, 120. 
BriiAswiok tart, 176. 
Backeye-eake, 230. 
Bookwheat oiJEes, 157 
Banns, No. 1, 248. 
No. 2, 248. 
Spanif h, No. 1, 246. 
No. 2, 246. 
No. 8, 246. 
Bom or toald, remedy for, 808. 
Batter, lemon, 201. 
tomato, 278. 
Battered toast, 158. 
Cabbage^ boiled, 18L 
stewed, 188. 
Cabinet podding. No. 1, ItL 

No. 2, 108. 
Cable podding, 182. 
Cake, Albany, 246. 

amber, 224. 

blaek, 220, 282. 

bread, 155. 

breakfast, 155. 

Baekeye^ 280. 

ehoeolate, 241. 

einnamon, 286. 

dtron, 224. 

eloTo, 220. 

eoeoanot, 288. 

eoeoanot^ No. 1, 285. 
No. 2, 286. 

ooflbe, 228. 

eomposition, 225. 

OoBneetioot, 280. 

eom-batter, 157. 

oom-staroh, 280. 

cream drop, 241. 

eieam jelly, 286. 

eap, a good, 288. 

eostard for flUing, 28T 

deUoate, 288. 

DoTor, 281. 

drop, 241. 

drop ginger, 242. 

Dnteh, 286. 

Bngltoh froit, 220. 

flmer's Droit, 221. 





Cake, Sootoh, No. 1, 224. 


flannel, US. 


Seranton spoafi^ 228. 


VvHMk loaf. No. 1, tSl. 


a 1. B.'s, 239. 


No. 2, nt. 


sflTer, No. 1, 284. 


frvit, No. 1« S19. 


No. 2, 234. 


No. 2, »«. 


No. 8, 286. 


frvit gingw, 226 


snowflake, 282, 


gingori 263. 


soda, 288. 


oap, No. 1, 261. 


soft ginger, 262. 


No. 2^ 212. 


sponge ginger, 229. \ 


foid,2U. 


sponge. No. 8, 228. i 
No. 4, 229. r 


gold tad f ilver, 2S4. 


Harrlion, 22L 


strawberrj sher^ 226, 


Hjdo Park» 2SS. 


tea, 166. 


imporialy 221. 


Tibbie's spongy 288. 


Indian meal braakfaf t, IM. 


TelTet, 167. 


Jaokion, 284. 


walnut, UL 


JtUj, No. 2, 23t. 


Washington, 228, 288. 


No. $, 2S7. 


West Philadelphia* 288L 


lady, 2S6. 


white almond, 282. ) 


lady, without almonda, 229. 


white oup, 282. ' 


light, 22». 


White Mountain, 288. ( 


loaf;227. 


whortleberry, 227. { 


Maddino, 242. 


Wiseonsin, 168. 


molasMf oap, 22ft. 


Calf » head, baked, 69. 


molawNi fimit, 224. 


frioassee, 68. 


MoraTian, 249. 


fried, 66. 


mnsh, 168. 


sealloped, 62. } 


New Tear's, 248. 


■oup, 9. 


New Tork tea, 247. 


terrapin, 199. 


oatmeal breakfiuit, 167. 


Calf's Utot, 67. 


orange, 286, 288. 


lirer, mook terrapin oi^ 191. 


pan, 218. 


with eream, 64. 


P««fy'«» Ml- 


mushrooms^ 64. 


plain fruit, 222. 


Camphor ioe^ 309. 


plain ginger, 262. 


Canada egg bread, 166. 


plvm, 227. 


Candied orange-peel, 279. 


pound, 286. 


Candyj hoarhoand, 269. 


pudding, 182. 


Canned blaokbeiries, 282. 


queen. No. 1, 289. 


com, 281 


No. 2, 289. 


peaches, 289. 


queen's, 228. 


pears, 280. 


raised flannel, 168. 


pineapple, 28L 


raisin, 222. 


tomatoes, 282. 


lepnbUoaa, 229. 


Cantelope, spfoed, 278. 


rlM,2Sl. 


Canyas-baok duoks, 86. 


rioe griddle No. 1, 166. 


Caper sauoe, 118. 


No. 2, 166. 


Caramels, 269. «. 


No. 8, 166. 


Carrots, stowed, 186. 


Seotch, No. 1, 218. 


Casserole of potatoes, 128. 



nwBJT. 



823 



OftUlf h, 21. 

0«tfliip» maahroom, 396. 
toniAtoy 2d6. 
walnut, 296. 
OAoliflower, pickled, S89. 
to boil, 13L 
(M9ry dreased, 103. 
8aiieo» 119. 
§oj, 296. 
stewed, 1S9. 
Oemeat tot bottlea, S09. 
Centre-piaoe for dinner-table, 262. 
Charlotte raaae, No. 1, 211. 
No. 2, 212. 
No. 3, 212. 
No. 4, 212. 
No. 6, 213. 
No. 6, 213. 
No. 7, 213. 
Oheeee oakef , 218. 
oottage,2IB. 
hogshead, 36. 
omelette, 112. 
Cherries, preserred, 269* 
Cherry bonnoe^ 264. 

pie, 173. 
Chieken, and oysters, 78. 

and sweetbread oroq's, 107, 

a plidner way, 108. 
barbeeaed, 79. 
boiled, 74. 
bndsed,77. 
broiled, 77. 
broth, 298. 
•roqnettes, 107. 

No. 2, 107. 
eury, No. 1, 78. 
No. 2, 79. 
fricasseed, brown, 73. 
white, 73. 
fried, 78. 
pie, 73. 
pilan oi^ 77. 
pot-pie, 76. 
Professor Blof s eroq's, 108. 

another way, 1)8. 
roast, 74. 
salad, 104. 
terrapin, 100. 
OUm of pork, roast, 38. 



Chocolate, 263. 

No. 2, 210. 
No. 3, 210. 
blano-mange. No. 1, 210. 
cake, 231, 241. 
OQStarda, 203. 
filling for cake, 237. 

NcSitftt 
idng,237. 
in cream, 260. 
one cup, 301. 
Chops, mutton, 48. 
pork, 34. 
stewed, 46. 
Chow-chow of piokles, 288. 
Chowder, No. 1, 26. 
No. 2, 26. 
dam, 27, 97. 
Cinnamon cake, 236. 
Cntron cake, 224. 

melon, 274. 
dams, chowder, 97. 
fried, 28. 
fritters, 98. 
scalloped, 98. 
soup, 8. 
stowed, 97. 
Clarified sugar, 282. 
CloTO cake, 229. 
Cocoanut cakes, 233, 238. 

No. 2, 236. 
custard, 203. 
drops, 241. 
filling, 238. 
jumbles, 240. 
pudding, 183. 
Coddled apples, 200, 276. 
Codfish, cakes, 23. 

New HaT«n, 23. 
sauoe for, 119. 
omelette, 112. 
to boil a fresh, 19. 
salt, 23. 
Coffee, 263. 

boilers, to dean, 306. 
cake, 228. 
ice-cream, 260. 
one cup 0^ 301. 
Cold, a remedy for a, 308. 
beef, a good pie of^ 41. 



324 



INDEX. 



9oU «iit«rd,203. 

mutton or lamb, 51. 

ragont o^ SS. 
rout tarkoy, 73. 
■lawy 1S8. 
tomato saaooy 20S. 
▼eal, oroqnettof o^ 109. 
CoUego pndtiing, 18S. 
Oolorod lUk, to olean, S06. 
Oomposition oake, 226. 
Compote of oranges, 275. 
Oonneotiont oake, 230. 
Oookiei, No. 1, 247. 
No. 2, 248. 
Cooking nteniili neeegsary in a 

kitohen, 6. 
Cooling drink, 266. 
Cordial, biaokberry, 265. 
Com, batter-oakoB, 157. 
broad, No. 1, 164. 
No. .2, 164. 
No. 8, 164. 
No. 4, 165. 
Misiisiippi, 561. 
eannad, 282. 
dodgers, 165. 
gieen, boiled, 144. 
muffins, 161. 

No. 2, 161. 
omelette, 114. 
oysters, 181. 
pudding, 131. 
pnffiB, 165. 
itaroh-oake, 280. 

mtringne, 207. 
sweet, stewed, 144. 
Coined bee^ 42. 

piekle for, 42. 
leg of pork, 50. 
Corns, for, 809. 

Com-starch padding. No. 1, 188. 

No. 2, 188. 
blanc-mange, 209. 
m6ringnes, 2C7 
Cottage obeese, 218. 

padding, 184. 
Congb mixtnrei, 810. 
Crab apples, to preserve^ 280. 
CralWi deriUed, 96. 
ioft-shall» 97. 



Craokers, to soak, 299. 
Cranberry-tart, 177. 

saaoe, 288. 
Cream, Bavarian, 214. 

blane-mange, 210. 
onrds and, 214. 
drop-oake, 24L 
jeUy-oake, 236. 
maoaroni, baked in, ^88. 
pie^ Florenoe, 174. 
pnifs, 204. 

No. 2, 204. 
filling for, 204. 
saaoe, 122. 
Spanish, 214. 
spring firnit, 199. 
toast, 159, 299. 
relvet, 215. 
wine, 215. 
Crisp gingerbread, 258. 
Croquettes, ohieken, 107. 

No. 2, 107. 
and sweet- 
bread, 198 
plainer way, 108. 
oyster, 109. 
Professor BlAf s, IfS. 

another way, 198. 
potato, 110. 
▼eal, 109, 111. 
Crullers, No. 1, 248. 
No. 2, 244. 
No. 8, 244. 
No. 4,244. 
Crust for apple-dnmplings, 168. 
Cueumbers, fried, 184. 
large, 292. 
piokled. No. 1, 28T 
No. 2, 28T. 
yellow, 299« 
salad, 105. 
iauoe^ 292. 
stuffed, 185. 
Cups, rioe, 184. 
Curds and oream, 214. 
Currant and raspberry jam, S74. 
jeUy, 277. 

sauoe, 122. 
Currant shrub, 264. 
wine, 264. 



WDBX. 



825 



tfiny, ehloken, T8. 

Ko. % U. 
mnttoiif 46. 
of tripe, 68. 
▼mlt 68. 
powder, 138. 
nbbitr 88. 
mhoo, Beyer's, 128. 
Outerdy ftpple No. 1, 808. 
No. 8, 802. 
baked, 208. 
boUed, 197, 208. 
ohooolate, 208. 
ooooanat, 203. 
oold, 208. 
filling, 258. 
for jelly-oake, 287. 

Indian padding, 188. 
lemon, 803. 
m6ringae, 208. 
sanoe, 122. 
snow-ball, 204. 
Cutlets, lamb, 61. 

mntton or lamb, 81. 
▼eal, 61. 
Cuts and braises, red oil for, 807. 
Delioate eake, 233. 
I>efsert, a firoxen, 216.. 

of rioe, 201. 
Deyilled orabs, 96. 

lobster, 97. 
Dinners, aooompaniments for, 811. 
Dinner-table, oentre-pieoe for, 262. 
for fourteen people, bill of fore 
for, 818. 
Dodgers, oom, 165. 
Dooghnuts, very fine, 844. 

No. 2, 245. 
nonpareil, 245. 
qaiok, 245. 
Dover cake, 231. 
Drawn batter, 117. 
Dressed celery, 103. 
Dried apples, stewed, 284. 
bee^ friuled, 38. 

No. 2, 89. 
No. 3, 89. 
bread, 151. 
frnits, 262. 
peaches, stewed, 284. 



Dried nisk, 250. 
toast, 159. 
Drink, a cooling, 266. 
Drop cakes, 241. 
Dry yeast, 145. 
Dacks, canvas-back, 86. 
roasted, 85. 
stewed, 85. 
warmed over, 85. 
wild, stewed, 87. 
Domplings, apple, baked, 178. 

boiled, 178 
for pepperpot, 18. 
suet crast for, 170. 
Datch cake, 236. 
Dye, blae, 307. 
red, 307. 
yellow, 307. 
Dyspepsia, remedy for, 802, 808. 
Bels, firied, 23. 

stewed, 23. 
Egg-bread, Oanada, 155. 
Sggnog, 266. 

for invalids, 300. 
Egg-plant, baked, 136. 
fried, 135. 
Bgg-saace for fish, 117. 

paddings, 121. 
Eggs, baked, 113. 
boiled, 113. 
fried, 113. 
ham with, 115. 
on toast, 114. 
scrambled, 113. 
English frait-cake, 220. 

paste for game pies, 171. 
padding, 184. 
paif paste, 170. 
recipe for lemon padding,189 
Family dinners, accompaniments for, 

all 
Fanny S.'s savory beef, 41. 
Farina padding, 184. 
Farmer's frait-cake, 221 
Fayal bisoait, 150. 
Felon, poaltioe for, 809. 
Figs, peach, 270. 
Fillet of veal, 60. 
Filling, apple, 258. 

chocolate, for cake, 257 



326 



INDEX, 



nxtagt eooouiiit» S58. 
muUrd, 368. 
for pafff, S04. 
of lemon, 368. 

No. 2, 368. 
orange, 368. 
Fine gingor-eako, 363. 
rUh, itowod, 34. 
flwinol oakef, 168. 

raiflod, 168. 
roUs, 168. 
FlazBood teay 803. 
Floronee oream-pie, 174. 
Flounders, 30. 
Floor ball, 303. 
Forcemeat balls of beef, 111. 

▼eal. 111. 
Fourteen people, dinner for, 818. 
Fox-grape Jelly, 378. 
Freneh beans, brown, 143. 
fritters, 306. 
loaf-eake, 333. 

No. 3, 333. 
panada, 399. 
puff paste, 170. 
rolls, 168. 
tart, 177. 

way of oooking green peas, 

180. 
Frieassee^ brown, of oUeken, 76. 

white, 76. 
Frioasseed rabbit, 88. 

sturgeon, 38. 
Fried ohioken, 78. 
olams, 38. 
encnmbers, 184. 
eels, 38. 
egg-plant, 186. 
eg|pi, lis. 
flounders, 30. 
halibut, 34. 

ham and eggs, 66, 116. 
mush, 166. 
parsnips, 180. 
potatoes, 136. 

No. 3, 136. 
oysters, 93. 
salsify, 180. 
■ea bass, 30. 
fweetbreads, No. 1, 66. 



Fried sweetbreads, No. t, 81. 

tomatoes, 140. 
Fritters, apple* 300. 
bread, 300. 
elam, 9S. 
Freneh, 300. 
orange, 307. 
plain, 307. 
Spanish, 307. 
Frogs, 89. 
Frost fish, 31. 

jeUy, 316. 
Froien dessert, 310. 
peaohes, 301. 
Fruit, eake. No. 1, 319. 
No. 3, 319. 
English, 380, 
fumer's, 331. 
plain, 333. 
for winter pies, 381. 
ginger-oake, 330. 
jumbles, 336. 
molasses-oake, 334. 
stains, to take out, 808. 
tapiooa, 301. 
0ame, 71. 
Qelatine blane-mange, 311. 

pudding, 186. 
German potatoes, 137. 

pulTs, 306. 
Gingerbread, 368. 

orisp, 363. 
orange, 368. 
nuts. No. 1, 364. 
No. 3, 366. 
soft. No. 1, 360. 
No. 3, 360. 
No. 8, 361 
No. 4, 361. 
No. 6, 361. 
Giager^oake, 368. 

drop, 343. 
fine, 363. 
fruit, 330. 
plain, 363. 
soft, 363. 
sponge, 339. 
Ginger eup-oake» No. 1, 361. 

No. 3, 363. 
Good eup-eakc^ )S8. 



INDEX. 



327 



ftinctr im^f , No. 1, S5S. 
No. t, 254. 
No. 8» 254 

No.4,SS4 
No. i, 264. 
6old and iQvor OAko, 2S4. 
€told oake, 234. 
€k>080y roast, 85. 

to dress, cold, 86. 
Graham rolls, 154. 
arai>ejam,279. 
jolly, 278. 
Orapos for pies, 279. 
Oioaso, oat of silk or woolloa, 806. 
€triti, samp or, 140. 
Chroen oom, 144. 
gages, 275. 
pea soap, 16. 
peas, 131. 

Freneh way of oooking, 

130. 
lamb stewed with, 50. 
tomato pickle, 294. 
erael, Indian, 297. 
oatmeal, 297 

▼ery fine, 297. 
sago, 297. 
€Niinea fowls, 88. 
fihimbo soap, No. 1, 10. 
No. 2. 10. 
No. 8, 10. 
Haddock, 19. 
Half pafT paste, 169. 
HaUbat, fried, 24. 
boUed, 24. 
broiled, 24. 
Earn, and eggs, 55. 

and Teal, baked, 67, 

pattiei, to. > 
PKTO 
biaced,52. 
broUed, 54. 
friiiled, 59. 
omelette, 112. 
sandwiehes, 59. 
stewed, 55, 114. 
with eggs, 115. 
Hard saaoe, 121. 
Harioot, mvtton, 47. 

No. 2. 47. 



Harrison easLO, 821. 
Hartford padding, 185. 
Hasty padding, 185. 
Haonoh of venison, roasted, 87 • 
Herring, potted, 23. 
smoked, 27. 
Hiawatha padding, 185. 
Higdon, 203. 
Hoarhoand oandy, 259. 
Hogshead eheese, 56. 
Hominy, 139. 

Hornet or bee, sting 9% 808. 
Horse-radish, 119. 

saaoe, 118. 
Hot rolls, 152. 
Hyde Park oake, 233. 
loe-oream, ohooolate, 260. 
eoffee, 260. 
orange, 260. 
▼anilla, 259. 
Iceland moss, blano-mange of^ 209. 
Ice, orange water, 261. 
Icing, ohooolate, 257. 

white, 257. 
Imperial cake^ 221. 
Indian oostard padding^ 188. 
grael,297. 
mangoes, 288. 
meal breakfast eakes, 150. 
mnffins, No. 1, 161. 
No. 2, 161. 
mush, 166. 
padding, baked, 180. 
boUed, 181. 
No. 1, 186. 
No. 2, 186. 
No. 3, 186. 
No. 4, 186. 
No. 5, 187. 
No. 6, 187. 
No. 7, 187. 
No. 8, 187. 
Introdaotion, 5. 
Irish ttew, 46. 

Iringlassy blano-maiige o^ 210. 
Jaekson oake^ 234. 
Jam, blackberry, 275. 

currant and raspberry, 274. 
grape^ 279. 
raspberry, 27L 



328 



DWEJL 



Appl«-MgOf 28$. 

bUekbarry, W. 
9akm, ovMm, 236. 
No. 2/ 2S7. 
No. I, 237. 
osmnty 277. 
foz-grftpo^ 278. 
tnui, 213. 
onnga, 216. 

rMpberry and oiimiit» 277. 
•Miooy 122. 
winOf 216. 
Jvllrano toapy 13. 
Jomblof, 240. 

No. 1, 231. 
No. 2, 239. 
BarbadoMy 246. 
ooooanaty 240. 
fruity 226. 
plain, 240. 

f Ofty 240. 

Kidn^i, boofSy stowed^ 40. 

No. 2, 43. 

lanb'iy 52. 
ifao«p% 49. 
KiiiMklt of Ttaly 61. 

ragout ^t, 66. 
f onp, 12. 
•towtd, 61. 
Lady oaka^ 236. 

witbont almondi, 220. 
Laka trout, 22. 
Lamb, 49. 

•old, to warm orar, 31. 
aatlotf, 51. 

broilad, 51. 
fora-qoartor, roasted, 50. 
bind-qnartar, roaatad, 49. 
kidnaya, 52. 

leg, itewed with green peat,50. 
Urer, 51. 
nook, stewed, 51. 
sbonlder, broiled, 50. 
Laplanders, 159. 
Larded sweetbreads, 64. 
Large oueombers, 292. 
Log of mutton boiled, 44. 
boned, 46. 
roasted, 45. 



Leg of mutton fftewed^ 44. 
stated, 46. 
Lag of pork oomed, 59. 

stalfod and roa«feBd» •% 
▼eal, salted, 69. 
Lemonade in a minute^ 265. 
Lemon batter, 201. 

fllling. No. 1, 258. 
« No. 2, 258. 

pie, No. 1, 174. 
No. 2, 174. 
paddings one^ 189. 
No. 1, 188. 
No. 2, 188. 
No. 3, 188. 
paddings, two, 189. 

Bn^ish,189 
sanoe, 122. 
sponge, 201. 
Laltnee or head-salad, 105. 
Ught^ake, 225. 
Lima beans, 134. 
Lirer, beefs, piokled, 34. 
ealTs, friMl, 64. 

mook terrapin o^ 161 
withoream, 64. 

moshrooms, 64. 
Loin of mntton, roasted, 48. 

Teal, roasted, 59. 
Loaf-oake^ 227. 

Frenoh, No. 1, 222. 
No. 2, 222. 
Lobster doTUIed, 97. 
patties, 96. 
salad, 103. 
soalloped, 96. 
•tewed, 98. 
Lyonnaise of potatoes, 129. 
Maearoni, 139. 

baked in oream, 138. 

with cheese^ 18S. 
boiled, 187. 
padding, 139. 
Maearoons, No. 1, 242. 
No. 2, 241 
No. 3, 243. 
Machine oil, to take qxlX, 306. 
Mackerel, 23. 
Madeline oake, 242. 
Maigre soap, 16. 



DrDSJs: 



329 



aUagoM, IndUm, S88. 
Mftrmalftdt, ITS. 

peaoh, No. 1, S7S. 

No. i, rrt. 

qvinody 272. 
ICuylt&d biscuit, No. 1, 149. 

No. 1, 149. 
No. S, 149. 
MMt baUi, 48, 119. 
minoo, 176. 

to kaop in hot woatli«r» 899. 
Melon, eitroB, 278. 
M4^gaoi, 248. 

applo, 297. 
oon-starch, 297. 
oaatard, 298. 
raipberry, 298. 
rioo, 298. 
MUdew, to take out, 898. 
Milk punch, 899. 
tOMt, 169. 
Mince-meat, 176. 
Mint lanoe, 119. 
MiBsiflBippi corn bread, 168* 
Mixed pickles, 289, 298. 
Mock terrapin of calf 's lirer, 191 

turtle soup, 8. 
Molasses cup cake, 225. 

fruit cake, 224. 
Moravian cake, 249. 
Mountain bread. No. 1, 147. 

No. 2, 147. 
No. 8, 148. 
Muffins, bread, 169. 

com, No» 1, 161. 
No. 2, 161. 
potato, 161. 
quick, 162. 
raised. No. 1, 169. 
No. 2, 169. 
rice, 161. 
water, 162. 
Mvih, 166. 

blackberry, 299. 
cakes, 158. 
fried, No. 1, 166. 
No. 2, 166. 
No. 8, 166. 
oatmeal, 891. 
rye, 891. 



Mushroom catsup, 295. 

sauce, No. 1, 118. 
No. 2, 119. 
stewed, No. 1, 187. 
No. 2, 188. 
Mushrooms, 187. 
Mustard plaster, 898. 
Mutton, 44. 

and sweetbreads, 65. 
birds, 49. 
broth, 14. 

for the sick, 298. 
chops, 48. 

stewed, 46. 
curry, 46. 

ft>r breakfast or supper, 48. 
haricot, No. 1, 47. 
No. 2, 47. 
Irish stew of; 46. 
kidneys, 49. 
leg, boUed, 44. 
boned, 46. 
roasted, 45. 
stewed, 44. 
stuffed, 45. 
loin, roasted, 48. 
soup, 12. 
stew, 48. 
Tenison, 45. 
NashTille pudding, 189. 
Nasturtiums, pickled, 296. 
Neck and shoulder of lamb, 51. 

venison, 88. 
New England breakfast pudding, 159 
New Haven codfish cakes, 26. 
New Market pudding, 198. 
New Tear's cakes, 248. 
New Tork tea cake, 247. 
Nonpareil doughnuts, 245. 
Nouilles for soup, 18. 
Nottingham pudding, 199. 
Nuts, 262. 

gingerbread. No. 1, 254. 
No. 2, 255. 
Oatmeal breakfast cakes, 157. 
gruel. No. 1, 297. 
No. 2, 297 
mush, 891. 
Omelette, 118. 

cheese, Welsh rarebit, 112. 



330 



INDEX, 



muMtm, eadflih» .11. 
oom, Hi. 
ham, lit. 
oytter, IIS. 
lottffle^ 20ft. 

No. S, Mi. 
tomato, 116. 
with enimbf, 114. 
Ono IwBon pudding, 189. 
Onion Mueo, brown, 14X 
Onionf boilod, 18S. 
pioklod, 290. 
rabbit and, 84. 
Orang* eako, 286, 288. 
fiUing, 268. 
fritters, 207. 
gingerbread, 268. 
ioe-oream, 260. 
jeUy, 210. 
peel, oandied, 279. 
padding, No. 1, 190. 
No. 2, 190. 
saaee, 122. 
water ice, 261. 
Onuigei, eompote of, 276. 
Oyster croquettes, 109. 
omelette, 116. 
patties, 98. 
pie. No. 1, 94. 
No. 2, 94. 
sanoe» 117. 
•soap. No. 1, 7. 
No. 2, 7. 
Oysters, oMolKen and, 78. 
broiled, 91. 
eom, 181. 
fried, 92. 
on toast, 298. 
panned, 92. 
piokled, 96. 

anoUier way, 96. 
roasted, 96. 
scalloped, 92. 

No. 2, 92. 
No. 8, 98. 
stewed, 91. 
Okr%i84. 

sovp, 18. 
Orangeade, 800. 
Ox tail s>np, 14. 



Paint, to dean, 806. 
Panada, 899. 

French, 299. 
Pan cakes 218. 
Parker house-rolls, 168. 
Parsnips, boiled, 188. 
browned, 186. 
fried, 186. 
Patties, ham and real, 70. 
lobster, 96. 
oyster, 98. 
Partridges, 88. 

pie o^ 82. 
salmi ol^ 81. 
to roast, 8L 
Pastry and puddings, remarki ob, lil 
Pasty, Tenison, 88. 
Peaches, brandied. No. 1, 278. 

No. 2, 278. 
No. 8, 278. 
No. 8, 274. 
canned, 280. 
dried to stew, 284. 
fbr shells or pies, 269. 
froien, 261. 
preserved, 269. 
spioed, 270. 

whole, 274. 
Peach blano-mange^ 211 
figs, 270. 

marmidade. No. 1, 272. 
No. 2, 278. 
Pears, baked, 28S. 
canned, 280. 
preseryed, 268. 
to stew for winter use^ S78i» 
Peas, boiled, 131. 
canned, 280. 

French way of cooking, 18t. 
green, 181. 

soup, 16. 
preserved, 268. 
split, soup, 16. 

No. 2, 17. 
Peggy's cake, 281. 
Pepper pot, 18. 

dumpHngs for, 18. 
pickled, 294. 
Percale, to prevent Kh^Bag, tOi. 
Pheasants, 82. 



INDEX. 



331 



PieiLM for eorning beef, 42.^ 
Piekl«d bMf 8 U^er, 34. 
Muliflower, 289. 
ehow-ohow, 288. 
oneumben, 287. 
No. 2, 
large, 292. 
nutortinms, 296. 
onions, 290. 
oystorsi 94. 

No. 2, 94. 
peppors, 294. 
Bftlmon, spioedf 22. 
tomatoes, 294. 
walnats, 291. 

No. 2, 291. 
yellow OQOiimbers, 299. 
PleklM, green tomato, 298. 

Indian mangoes, 288. 
mixed, 289, 298. 

No. 2, 29S. 
Bhakers*, 290. 
Spanish, 289. 
Pickerel, 24. 
Pie, apple, 172. 

No. 2, 178. 
a Texy good, 178. 
bee^41. 
eherry, 178. 
ohioken, 75. 
eold beet; 41. 
crast, plain, 188. 
Vlorenoe eream, lf4. 
lemon. No. 1, 174. 
No. 2, 174. 
oyster, No. 1, 94. 
No. 2, 94. 
peaoh, No. 1, 174. 
No. 2, 178. 
pigeon, 80. 
plnm, 176. 
pot apple, 178. 
raisin, 175. 
Teal, 62. 

and ham, 70. 
Washington pie, 175. 
Pig's feet in jelly, 57. 
sensed, 58. 
stewed, 50 
Pig, roasted, 58. 



Pigeons, broiled, 80. 
pie, 80. 
roasted, 80. 
squabs, 298. 
stewed, 79. 
Pilan of ohioken, 77. 
Pineapple, canned, 281. 

preserred, 275. 
Piqnante, sauoe, 123. 
Plain calf's head sonp, 9. 
fritters, 207. 
ginger-cake, 252. 
pie cmst, 168. 
Plaster, mustard, for corns, 808. 
Plum cake, 227. 
Pocket-book rolls, 158. 
Poke, 148. 
Pone, 168. 
Pop-OTors, 160. 
Ponnd-cake, 235. 
Pork, 52. 

and beans, baked, 57. 
chine, roasted, 58. 
leg corned, 59. 

stuffed and roasted, 51 
sausage, No. 1, 54. 
No. 2, 54. 
spare ribs, 54. 
steaks or chops, 54. 
tenderloins, 57. 
Pot apple pie, 178. 
pie, chicken, 76. 
crust for, 168. 
Potato, balls, fHed, 128. 
biscuit, 151. 
croquettes, 110. 
mui&ns, 161. 
pie, 128. 
puddings, 191. 
rolls, No. 1, 154. 
No. 2, 154. 
salad, 106. 
scallop, 128. 
snow, 127. 
PoUtoes, baked, 127. 

boiled (sweet), 129. 
hoOed white, 125. 

browned* 127 
browned, 129. 
oassarole o( 128. 



332 



INDKr. 



PoteloM, frted, No. 1 (white), IM. 
No. 2, 126. 
Ckrmaii, 127. 
lyonnaiie of, 129. 
mMhed, 126. 

wArmod OT«r, 126. 
new, 126. 
roMt, 127, 129. 
f towod, 127. 
•wMt| browned, 129. 
routedt 129. 
wurmad 0T«r, 126. 
Petted beei; 40. 

herring, 23. 
fhMl,24. 
Povltlee for boili, 86&. 

ft fUon, S99. 
Ponnd eake, 2S6. 
Powder, enrry, 128. 
Prepared rennet, 214. 
Preierred apple^ 276. 

oherriei, 269. 
fruit, shells for, 171« 
peaohes, 269. 
pine apple, 276. 
strawberries, 279. 
tomatoes, 27S. 
Preserring, canning, remarks on, 269. 
Piessed bee^ 89. 

Pro& Blof s chicken eroqnettes, 198. 
Prunellas, 286. 
Prunes, to stew, 284. 
Pnddiag, almond, 178. 

apple, No. 1, 179. 
No. 2, 179. 
No. 8, 179. 
batter, 180, 198. 
beefsteak, 42. 
bird's nest, 216. 
blaok, 180. 
bread, 197. 

bread and apple, 181. 
bread and butter, 181. 
brown Betty, 199. 
cabinet, 181, 198. 
eable, 182. 
eake, 182. 
eeooanut, 188. 
eoUege, 188. 
com, 181. 



Psddlag, eon-itareh. No. 1« ISt. 

I No. 2, 18S. 
eottage, 184. 
Bnglish, 184. 
fluina,184. 

four, baked, No. 1, 1T9. 
No. 2, 189. 
boiled, batter, 188 
gelatine, 186. 
Hartford, 186. 
haity, 186. 
HUwatha, 186. 
Indian, No. 1, 186 

No. 2, 186. 

No. 8, 186. 

No. 4» 186. 

No. 6, 187. 

No. 6, 187. 

No. 7, 187. 

No. 8, 187. 

baked, 180. 

boiled, 181. 

custard, 188. 
lemon, No. 1, 188. 

No. 2, 188. 

No. 8, 188. 

English receipt, 189 
macaroni, 189. 
NashYiUe, 189. 
New England breakfa8t,169 
Newmarket, 198. 
Nottingham, 190. 
one lemon, 189. 
orange, No. 1, 190. 

No. 2, 190. 
plum, 191. 

plain. No. 1, 191. 
No. 2, 191. 
pototo, 191. 
Prince Albert's, 191. 
pumpkin, 192. 
queen of, 192. 
quick, 192. 
rice, 198. 
roley-polej, 198. 
sauce, 12L 

No. 2, 12L 
cream, 122. 
custard, 122. 
hard, 122. 



nwEX. 



333 



fldding lanoe, lemon, 122. 
orange, 122. 
wine, 120. 

No. 2, 120. 
No. 3, 120. 
No. 4, 121. 
mow, 103. 
Spanish, 193. 
•ponge oake, 194. 
ipring frnit, 199. 

oream, 199. 
•teamed, 194. 
met. No. 1, 194. 
No. 2, 194. 
No. 3, 195. 
gammer, 195. 
tapioea, No. 1, 195. 
No. 2, 196. 
No. 3, 196. 
No. 4, 196. 
two lemon, 189. 
▼ermloelli, 196. 

No. 2, 197. 
whortleberry, 197. 
Yorkihlre, roast bee^ SO. 
Poflii, com, 165. 

eream, No. 1, 204. 
No. 2, 204. 
iUing for, 204. 
Ctorman, 205. 
rje, 160. 
P«ff paste, 168. 

half, for fimit plee, 169 
English, 170. 
French, 170. 
Pimeh* milk, 300. 
Qnafls, 88. 

Queen eake, No. 1, 289. 
No. 2, 239. 
of mnlBns, 192. 
Queen's oake, 223. 
Qniok muffins^ 162. 
podding, 192. 
Qnlnee^ marmalade, 271. 

preserved, 267. 
Babbits and onions, 84. 
Rabbit sonp, 15. 
enrry, 88. 
en eiToty 88. 
frieassee, 88. 



Rabbit, stewed, 84. 

No. 2, 84. 
Ragout of cold beef, 35. 
another, 35. 
knuckle oif Teal, 66. 
turkey, 72. 
Raised flannel cakes, 158. 
muffins. No. 1, 160. 
No. 2, 160. 
Raisin oake, 222. 

pie, 173. 
Raspberry and currant Jelly, W. 
bounoe, 264. 
jam, 2'/l. 
jeUy, 277. 
m6ringue, 208. 
preserved, 268. 
syrup, 265. 
vinegar, 265. 
Red oil, 307. 

to dye, 308. 
Reed birds, 83. 
Remains of cold duck, 85. 

goose, 86. 
Remarks on pastry and puddings, 161 
preserving, Ac, 269. 
roasting, ^e., 29. 
Rennet, prepared, 214. 
Relishes, breakfast, 312. 

tea or supper, 812. 
Rhubarb, stewed, 202. 
tart, 177. 
cream, 199. 
puddings, 199. 
Roast beef, 80. 

with Torkshire puddiag^ 
30. 
ehicken, 74. 
ehine of pork, 68. 
ducks, 85. 
goose, 85. 
Guinea fowls, 83. 
haunch of venison, 87. 
leg of mutton, 45. 
oysters, 64. 
partridges, 81, 88. 
pheasants, 82. 
pigeons. 80. 

turkey, 71. 



834 



IKDES. 



RoMtiBgy boiling, kt^ rmnMki on, S9 
Roliflhet for tea, 5U. 
B«Biody for bnrna, 398. 

OOldiy S08. 

oornf, S09. 
dyspoptia, SOS, lit. 
Roniiot, prepwod, 214. 
Ropnbliean cake, 239. 
Roekfleh, 19. 
Riot, blano-maiigo, 211. 

boiled, 14$. 

oak^, 231. 

oapi, 184. 

dofBort o^ 201. 

griddlo oakM, No. 1, IM. 
No. 2, IM. 
No. 3, 138. 

m8ringiM, 298. 

■rafiBf , 181. 

padding, 193. 

walBoi, 184. 

water, 308. 
Rol^-polo7 pudding, 193. 
RoUi, breakfast, 131. 

flannel, 133. 

French, 133. 
Graham, 134. 

hot, 132. 

Parker HouM, 133. 

pooket-book, 133. 

potato. No* 1, 134. 
No. 2, 134. 

ipUt, 132. 

▼ery fine, 132. 
Ronnd of beef bonilli, 34. 
•alted,U. 
Rnmp itoak i tewed, t9. 
Ruk, 134. 

No. 1, 249. 

No. 2, 249. 

No. 3, 249. 

bread, 230. 

dried, 230. 
Rje bread, 148. 
mnih, SOL 
pnffii, 180. 
dago, apple jelly, 283. 

gniel, 297. 
Salad, ohioken, 104. 

enooinber, 103. 



Salad, lottnee^ or head. Iff. 

lobiter, 103. 

potato, 108. 

tomato, 103. 
Sally Iiwin, No. 1, 182. 
No. 2, 182. 
No. 3, 183. 
without yeait» IfR 
Salmi of partridges, 8L 
Salmon, boiled, 19. 
smoked, 27. 
spioed, 22. 
Saliiiy, boiled, 134. 

fried, No. 1, 138. 
No. 2, 130. 
SalT^ for boils, 308. 
Samp, 140. 
Sand tarts, 247. 
Saratoga bread, 148. 
Sanoe, anehoyy, 118. 

apple, 284. 

Bordeaux, 293. 

brown onion, 142. 

ei^er, 118. 

eelery, 119. 

codfish cakes, 119. 

cold tomato, 292. 

cranberry, 283. 

cream, 122. 

encumber, 292. 

currant jelly, 122. 

curry, 123. 

custard, 122. 

drawn butter, 117. 

egg, for fish, 117. 

puddings, 12L 

hard, 121. 

horseradish, 118, U9. 

lemon, 122. 

Bdn^ 119. 

mushroom, No. 1, 118. 
No. 2, U9. 

orange, 122. 

oyster, 117. 

piquante^ 123. 

pudding, 121. 

No. 2, 121* 

Soyer's curry, 123. 

tomato, 293. 

turnips in, 132. 



a.; 



INDJBX. 



asft 



Smio«^ white, 118. 

wint, No. 1, 120. 
No. 2, 120. 
No. 9, 120, rich. 
No. 4, 121. 

No. 2, 64. 
SaYory baet Fanny S.'fl, 41. 
Somldi for, 208. 
SeaUopp^d ealf a bead, 62. 
olams, 98. 
lobster, 90. 
potato, 128. 
Soallops, 98. 
Sootoh oake, No. 1, 228. 
No. 2, 224. 
Scrambled eggs, 113. 
Boranton sponge-cake, 228. 
Serapple, 65. 
Sea bass, 20. 
8. B. B.'f oake, 280. 
Sewing-machine oil, to take out, 800. 
Shad, baked, 20. 
broiled, 28. 
potted, 24. 
Shakers' pickles, 290. 
Sheep's kidneys, 49. 
Sheili for preserred fimit, 171. 
Shortening, suet, ITO. 
Shmb^ oarrant, 204. 
Silk, colored, to remoTe grease^ 800. 
SilTer cake. No. 1, 284. 
No. 2, 234. 
Sirloin of bee^ 32. 
Slap-jacks, 100. 
Smelts, 21. 
Smoked herring, 27. 
salmon, 27. 
tongue, boiled, 88* 
Snaps ginger. No. 1, 268. 
No. 2, 264. 
No. 8, 264. 
No. 4, 264. 
No. 6, 264. 
Snow-ball custard, 204. 
flake cake, 282. 
pudding, 198. 
Soap, to make goed hard, 807. 
Soda biaeoit, 160. 
cake, 288. 



Soda mint, 808. 
Soft gingerbread. No. 1, 260. 

No. 2, 260. 
No. 3, 261 
No. 4, 261. 
No. 6, 261. 
ginger cake, 262. 
Jumbles, 240. 
Soft-shell crabs, 97. 
Souffle, omelette. No. 1, 206. 

No. 2, 206. 
Soup, amber, 11. 

beef. No. 1, 11. 
No. 2, 14. 
black bean, 14. 
calTs head, 9. 

plain, flL 
chicken, brown, 11. 
clam, 8. 
green pea, 10. 
gumbo. No. 1, 10. 
No. 2, 10. 
No. 8, 10. 
Julienne, 13. 
knuckle of veal, 12. 
maigre, 10. 
mock turtle, 8. 
mutton, 12. 
nouilles for, 18. 
okra, 18. 
oz taU, 14. 
oyster. No. 1, 7. 
No. 2, 7. 
pepper pot, 18. 
rabbit, 16. 
split pea, 10. 

No. 2, 17. 
tomato, 16. 
vegetable, 17. 
rermioelli, 12. 
Soy, celery, 290. 
Spanish bunns, No. 1, 240. 
No. 2, 2a. 
No. 8, 240. 
cream, 214. 
fdtters, 207. 
pudding, 198. 
Spare ribs, 64, 
Spiced bee^ 80. 

No. 2, 87. 



336 



INDEJL 



Spiotd oaatolop«, 178. 

pMohety No. 1, 270. 
No. 2. 270. 
whol«» 274. 
SpinMh, 17S. 
Split pea loapi 10. 

No. 2, 17. 
rollf, 152. 
Spong* Oftk«i No. S, 228. 
No. 4, 229. 
padding, 194. 
Tlbbie'i, 228. 
Soranton, 228. 
ginger oake, 229. 
lemon, 201. 
Spring firuit cream, 199. 

podding, 199. 
SqvalM, pigeons, partridgef , or any 

amali birdf, 298. 
Sqaashei, 180. 
Stainf from table linen, 800. 
Steamed pudding, 194. 
Steel, mat from, 800. 
Slewed apple for Tol-an-Tent, 172. 
beei; 82, 88. 
beef ■ kidney, 40. 
oabbage, 188. 
oarrotfl, 13ft. 
eelery, 139. 
elama, 97. 
dnolu, 88 
eels, 28. 
ftsh, 24. 
bam, 56, 114. 
knuckle of veal, 01. 
leg of mntton, 44* 
lobster, 98. 

neck or shoulder of lamb, 51. 
pears for winter use, 278. 
pigeons, 79. 
pig's feet, 50. 
pranes, 284. 
rabbit, 84. 
rhubarb, 202. 
rock flshf 
sweet com, 144. 
tomatoes, 141. 
tripe, 48. 
wUd ducks, 87 



Stmg of a bee^ 800. 
Strawberries, preserred, JTO 
Strawberry shortcake, 220. 

syrup, 200. 
String beans, 182. 
Staffed beef, 41. 

be^teak,87. 
cucumbers, 185. 
leg of mntton, 45. 
tomatoes, 141. 
Sturgeon, IHoaieeed, 28. 
roafted,21. 
spiced, 21. 
Snceotash, 142. 
Suet erust, 170. 

puddling, No. 1, 194. 
Ne. 2, 194. 
No. 8, 195. 
shortening, 170. 
Sugar, clarified, 282. 
Summer, bill of fare for, 810. 

pudding, 195. 
Sweetbreads broiled, 00. 

ehlcken and, croq%19f 
fried, 05. 

No, 2. 
for the sick, 299. 
larded, 04. 
par-boiled, 
stewed, 05. 

with mushroomi, 05 
Syrup, strawberry, 200. 
Table linen, take out fruit stains 800 
Talfy, 259. 
Tamarind water, 299. 
Tapioca, 802. 

apple, No. 1, 200. 
No. 2, 200. 
fhiit,201. 

pudding. No. 1, lOk 
No. 2, 190. 
No. 8, 190. 
No. 1, 190. 
Tar, to take out, 800. 
Tarts, Brunswick, 170. 
cranberry, 177. 
French, 177. 
rhubarb, 177. 
Tea, 208. 



amMM. 



fMMk^lM^ 


9ri|^fltwMy 4iL 


fl MP • OfBf M* 


TrraibfiMkyM. 


bMl^MS. 


Ukt»M. 


UmoII, Vo^ 1, IMl 


TvHbtt A-lft-MWM^ M. 


No. S» Uf « 


Tvkif , bolUd, yt. 


UfeaH Twy flJM^ 


b«»«4,Ta, 


iftiMtd^m. 


ngMl «f mI4 t& 


NlithMhSll. 


•■•Cte mif y It. 


ffMp«tf y to «ltMt Mb 


iMaty 71. 


TifffM|^lBf Wt^ 9§» 


Twnipi^ to iMM^ US. 


«o«k •! «df f Itm, ML 


MMBhU^tn, 


twfayinay No. 1, W. 


▼mUU iM-eMum MH 


No. 1^ N* 


▼««I,M. 


mOTi hmd, l$9k 


Mid kaa paltit% ti» 


«lilek«B,lM. 


PKW. 


TlUito'i fpofig*-Mk% SSIl 


Wkii,M. 


TiBi, le dMM, tH. 


iBottor vify 8ft 


ToMty aaohoTj, U. 


(b«wit0k«d» 6S. 


ImttMd^lM. 


lbltfmmtt6,M. 


oimM,lM,2ii. 


kfMit oi; stiiflitdf M. 


4i7, Ut. 


plftlB,6l. 


«C|fM,U4 


«Nq««tto^ IM^ IIL 


Ailk,lif. 


•«R7, 68. 


OQfMHNI ^^ iW* 


mitUtf,81. 


WAlHf 99$, 


8U«I ti; ftaM^ 88l 


TmmIom Wk«d» 1M« 


iMrawMM^UL 


%ffoilt4, 141. 


kMMUt d; iigoal^ 88L 


ombH»S* 




«M^. 


lovp^ii. 


piwftmdy STS* 


iiffoiMaii4,8i. 


•ltiri|»141. 


Ml ot Nttftoi, M 


rt»tfb<,14t 


rH8i* 


ToMtIt WHw» ft9. 


▼<1teU.tMi»M. 


MlMI^SM. 


▼0lV«l MkM, lit 


«nMi $niff, IM. 


•miitJli. 


piok]ii4,SM. 


VmIim^ hMUioh d; iMWtoi, M. 


KVMOf SvA* 


matton, 41. 


^VHHNi|^ AWW» 


■Mk n4 ili««Mtr oi M 


iMOi^ Its. 


Hilj^M. 


«oM,lM. 


iteikt, 88. 


■Mf»li. 


VmMIU pvddliii^ 188. 


«• flMT dritd applA^ 184. 


v«.i^m. 


j^^^^^w^^^vb ^p^^^bv 


lovp^lS. 


praMUMbSM^ 


▼«ffy iM UwmU, IM. 


ToagM^ It MIyM. 


nukfSM. 


bMilli»tt. 


Vol-Mi-v<Mt» Ho. I, m. 


TMk^nt. 


No. 1, in. 


Mit^Slf. 


•iMradavptota^in 


Tllpt^ Milj d^ Ml 


WMtaib v«y iMb Bo. 1| 18ft 



I 



INDMX. 






yliktoii V«. 1, m. 



rKitii 






tOM«»Mf. 

WdglitoHid 

Whey, wlM^ Ml. 
Whlpi, Sli. 

Mp*«ftke^ Sit. 



«I4 






White MMibUa. 

WBOftiflMfiy Mk% ttfa 

psMlM^lil 
WQi HOu, itewH tr. 
Sli. 

MNUtblSt. 

V«.t,lllL 

v«.ibim 

V*.4»1SL 

MkM»lM^ 

Itt. 
V«.^14f. 

irM»14f. 

to i7% str. 

tMuto pfMiffviii^ ITS. 

Twkf hin pvMlBg4«Ml tar wllM*^ 
Wtlih raMUt» lU. 

Wwt PUlAdfllphte MiMb m. 

Wfaitor pteib<^«tt wlttMl 
fnftf ftf^ flVli 



tBB ■>». 



t 



% 



I 



wo***' 














-'- 



