THE HEALTH OF THE 
SCHOOL CHILD 



THE HEALTH OF THE 
SCHOOL CHILD 



| S>) (W) LESLIE MACKENZIE, M.A., M.D. 



D.P.H., M.R.C.P.ED., F.R.S.E. 

MEDICAL MEMBER OF THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT BOARD 
FOR SCOTLAND 




36 ESSEX STREET W.C. 
LONDON 



First Published in 1906 



PREFACE 

THE papers here reprinted are offered as a con- 
tribution to the practical side of the medical 
inspection of schools. In every civilised country the 
doctor and the school child are coming closer together. 
In Scotland, no less than in England, the interest 
is widespread and intense. This must be my 
apology for the present papers. 

The first paper was read at a Congress of sanitary 
administrators, official and unofficial. The second 
was read at a Congress of the Parents' National 
Union, where the majority were in a position to 
choose for their children the best education afforded 
by our present-day schools. The third was read 
before the Royal Society of Edinburgh, by whose 
kind permission it is now printed. On all three 
occasions, I found, as indeed in many places else- 
where in Scotland, that the Royal Commission on 
Physical Training (Scotland) and the Committee 
of Physical Deterioration had aroused the minds 
of every class of the community to the importance 
of personal hygiene in schools. The medical super- 
vision of school children appeals to every class of 
the community. It is responded to by every class. 
It is no longer a topic for special pleaders. It is 



vi PREFACE 

already " on the town," and parents everywhere are 
either asking for it or preparing themselves to accept 
it. In the Education Bill now before Parliament, a 
clause has been inserted to make medical inspection 
obligatory in all English State-aided schools. Mr. 
Tennant, M.P. for Berwickshire, who moved the 
clause, must have been greatly gratified at the 
amazing unanimity of the House. 

It seems worth while to give some detail of the 
methods followed in two German cities, if only to 
show that the medical examination of school 
children is after all a very simple matter, and does 
not involve any reconstruction in our theory of the 
State or of its relation to local authorities. If we 
force the child to school, we have no right to force 
him to read with defective eyes, or to expect him 
to hear with defective ears. I have never met a 
single parent that disputes this proposition. On the 
contrary, I have met scores that, on having their 
attention called to the importance of good eyes and 
ears, have forthwith taken their children to the 
doctor to learn whether things were all right. 

I have to thank the Council of the Royal Society 
of Edinburgh, the Council of the Incorporated 
Sanitary Association of Scotland, and the Council 
of the Parents' National Education Union for 
permission to print the papers prepared for their 

respective Societies. 

W. L. M. 

EDINBURGH, October 1906. 



CONTENTS 

PAGE 

THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE . i 

NORMAL GROWTH IN THE SCHOOL AGES . .21 

MEDICAL EXAMINATION AND SUPERVISION OF 
SCHOOLS AND SCHOOL CHILDREN . . -49 

THE SCHOOL DOCTOR IN GERMANY . . 88 

(a) WIESBADEN . . . . .89 

(b) NUREMBERG . . . . 101 

NOTE ON RE-VACCINATION OF SCHOOL CHILDREN 
IN GERMANY . . . . . 115 

NOTE ON THE PLAN OF A GERMAN ELEMENTARY 
SCHOOL . . . . . .119 



THE HEALTH OF THE 
SCHOOL CHILD 

THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 1 

i. WHY is THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 
IMPORTANT ? 

THE answer is as easy as it is conclusive. In 
the school age the child for the first time is 
subjected to definite responsibilities. Up till now 
he has been his own master. His every day was a 
holiday. He wakened in the morning to no duty 
prescribed. He went to sleep at night with no duty 
done. In this day of freedom he was allowed to 
grow in body and in mind much as accident deter- 
mined. When his parents were good, he was 
cleaned, clothed, fed, and educated. When his 
parents were bad, he remained dirty, ragged, hungry, 
and untaught. And the goodness of his parents to 
him was not all their virtue, nor their badness to him 
all their blame. If he was one of six, his nurture 

1 Opening paper of discussion on " The Hygiene of School Life " at 
the Annual Congress of the Incorporated Sanitary Association of 
Scotland ; held at Inverness, September 1905. 

I 



2 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

had to fall off as his years increased. If he was an 
only child, he was over-petted, mentally and phys- 
ically. In the one case, the social currents of the 
immediate neighbourhood became his principal 
schoolmasters. In the other, the sentimentalism of 
half-trained minds, or the conscientious labour of the 
tenderest love, became his support in every moment 
of his day. How many types might we sketch out 
of the endless chaos of evil, or degenerate, or drunken, 
or ignorant, or incompetent, or idle, or overdriven, or 
poor parents ! How many more types out of all 
their contraries ! From the good or from the bad 
the school child emerges when the school bell rings. 
His holiday from the beginning of time has ended. 
His duty to the end of time has begun. He will 
never know "glad, confident morning again." He 
has now another outlook, another programme, 
another destiny. He keeps touch, indeed, with his 
parents, but he can no longer rest in his home. He 
goes where he will learn the knowledge of a wider 
world, the duties of a greater community, the secrets 
of the old and new gospel of work. Tender, timor- 
ous, mysterious, the "heir of all the ages," he is 
taken by the hand for reasons he cannot know, to 
enter a kingdom he can never all explore, to learn a 
lesson he can never all understand, to live a life he 
can never all explain. He is the hope of his father 
and mother, he is the problem of his teacher, he may 
become the despair of himself. 

In the Tate Gallery in London, in a corner of one 
of the rooms, you will find a picture of the " last 
night at home." It is an English scene more than 



THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 3 

a Scottish, but it has its like in every country where 
there are fathers and mothers, and children leaving 
for school. It is the last night. Everything is 
ready for the journey of the morning. There are 
sisters, there is the mother, and there stands the 
father by the sideboard ; there, too, stands the boy. 
To-night they will be all as happy as they can be. 
They will drink a parting glass together. The little 
man in knickerbockers looks up at his father, and 
the sparkle in his glass is not brighter than the 
tender smile in his eyes. The father, too, all smiles, 
raises his glass, and the mother smiles with them. 
You cannot tell how long it will last ; for love is 
drinking the wine of its parting sacrament, the heart 
is bursting, the whole of what joy is and love is and 
sorrow is plays there with its last moments of life. 
To-morrow, their hands will be at their lips bidding 
adieu to that which can never be recalled. A new 
life in the armour of love and sacrifice has fared 
forth into the world. Is there anything more sad, 
more beautiful, more holy? 

But these are the visions of the ideal. The child, 
we know well, does not always come from an 
atmosphere like this. Yet come he from the heights 
or the depths, he has in him that which makes a man 
great or small, good or evil, a citizen or a rogue. 
He will be one of the men that make nations, 
that make worlds, that make civilisations. He is the 
greatest problem of his hour; he is the greatest 
danger of his time ; he is the greatest product of 
the world's energies. Is this language extravagant ? 
Is it not, on the contrary, the sober, scientific truth ? 



4 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

Only look round and see. The peoples of every 
land, East and West, Far East and Far West, are 
awakening to the problem of the school child his 
nurture, his education, his discipline. They have 
already learned the first lesson of civilised progress 
the parent is, indeed, the past and the present ; the 
child is also the future. 



2. THE SCHOOL AS FUNCTIONAL ENVIRONMENT 

Why functional environment ? By this phrase I 
wish to indicate that the primary thing to consider 
in the hygiene of a school is the point where the 
actual structure affects the living, actual child. From 
nine in the morning to three or four in the afternoon, 
the child is acting in the school, and the school is 
reacting on the child. He must breathe. Is the 
air over-night fresh ? He must move about. Have 
the floors and forms been properly cleared of dust ? 
He must sit down. Are the seats the correct 
height ? He must write. Are the desks the correct 
height for his size ? Are they too near him, or too 
far from him ? He must read. Does the light 
shine from his left side ? He must see the black- 
board or the wall card. Is it placed in the correct 
light for him to see ? He sits for most of an hour. 
Is the room warm enough ? Are the heating appli- 
ances in working order ? Has he on clothes enough ? 
He reads aloud in his class, or shouts, or sings in 
concert, he coughs, or sneezes, or otherwise clears 
his air-passages ; in a thousand ways he fills the air 
with pollutions from his mouth, nose, and lungs. 



THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 5 

Are the walls cleaned ? Are the maps cleaned ? 
He spits on his slate, if he is allowed to use one ; 
he bites his pen ; he chews his pencil. Are slates, 
are pens, are pencils cleaned ? At the word of 
command, he springs to his feet, marches, marks 
time. Has he wiped his shoes on the mat ? Are 
the floors cleaned ? Are the doors and windows 
opened to keep the beaten room clear of dust ? He 
swings his arms, he creates a thousand currents 
round his body. Are his clothes clean ? Is his 
head clean ? Are his hands clean ? So, through 
the whole day he is in living touch with some part 
of the school. He is continually using and abusing. 
He is collecting and redistributing dirt and dust all 
day long. I say nothing of the major matters 
lavatories, water supplies, closets, drainage ; these 
are all to be assumed. They need the most stringent 
supervision, and they do not always get it. What I 
should wish to paint is the restless, growing, skin- 
shedding, mucus-shedding, dust-distributing, spitting, 
coughing, and shouting demon that the school boy, 
at his worst and best, always is. Where one boy 
is, it takes a woman to keep the house clean. Where 
a thousand boys are, it takes a local authority. 

That is what I mean by functional environment ; 
it is the environment that the boy captures and 
handles as his own in the school. When you think 
of it thus in detail, you have no difficulty in under- 
standing why we are, in season and out of season, 
insisting on the necessity for fitting the boy to the 
school and the school to the boy. Let there be 
water, drainage, lavatories, cloak-rooms, systems of 



6 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

heating, systems of ventilation, fires, opening and 
closing windows, under-floor ventilators, good walls, 
good floors, good roofs, good playgrounds. But 
let it be remembered that the health of the school 
child depends on the use that he is able to make of 
these appliances and the way they are adapted to 
his needs. It is not ventilating appliances alone 
that are wanted ; it is ventilation. It is not water 
alone ; it is washing with water. It is not heating 
pipes or fires alone ; it is heating with heat to the 
degree necessary for the physical comfort of a 
delicate, growing organism. In a word, it is not 
only the statics of hygiene that we want ; it is the 
dynamics as well. That is why the school and the 
school child must be studied together as organism 
and environment ; the needs of the one must find 
an answer in the conditions of the other, the needs 
of the child in the structure and management of 
the school. 

3. THE STRESSES OF SCHOOL LIFE 

The primary stress of school life falls on the 
nervous system ; for the primary business of the 
school is to educate the incompletely developed 
but rapidly maturing brain. Many children break 
down at the outset ; many break down towards the 
end ; many suffer in minor ways that are never 
noticed at the time ; all are liable to suffer in growth 
and in nutrition. This fact alone makes good 
hygienic environment and good hygienic administra- 
tion imperative. The stresses that more openly and 



THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 7 

directly concern the sanitarian are the infectious 
diseases, the skin diseases, the results of bad 
atmosphere, and the results of filthy homes. The 
diseases I leave alone. Two good topics for dis- 
cussion are, how best to secure a good atmosphere, 
and how to deal with dirty children. 

4. VENTILATION 

In town schools, the problem practically is, Should 
a system of mechanical ventilation be installed, or 
a differential temperature system ? Both systems 
have advantages, and both have disadvantages. 
The mechanical systems sometimes give satisfaction 
in the working, sometimes not. So far as I am 
aware, the highly favourable report made by 
Professor Carnelley to the Dundee School Board in 
1889 has not been overturned by any equally 
thorough investigation of other systems. Dr. J. S. 
Haldane has confirmed Carnelley's general results. 
With the increased facilities for obtaining electric 
power, mechanical systems have become more 
practicable. But, as Dr. Kerr of the London 
County Council Education Department has shown, 
the engineering difficulties demand more thinking 
out than they sometimes receive. The moving fan 
is only one factor. The relation of inlet to outlet, 
the dangers of short-circuiting, the size of ducts, the 
methods of heating are all equally important. A 
mechanical system needs a capable mechanic to 
work it, and where it is properly worked the 
results are excellent. 



8 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

Of the other systems it would be impossible to 
speak with any detail. I always feel that our 
attitude to ventilation is too much determined by 
our foolish domestic habits. It is the custom to 
take off coats "in the house"; "you feel the good 
of it when y*bu go out." This time-and-custom- 
honoured platitude is repeated thousands, millions 
of times a year; but I have long had a doubt of 
it. It is based rather on our liking for warmth than 
on our scientific knowledge of bodily temperature. 
Three simple points it is well to remember first, 
that in the coldest winter known to this country, 
the air is never too cold to breathe ; secondly, that 
children will remain healthier and physiologically 
better through the school day if they are made to 
keep their bodies warm and to breathe cool, fresh 
air; third, that where fires or other heating appli- 
ances fail, warm coats and shoes may be a good 
substitute. There is no law against wearing enough 
clothes to maintain comfort. Further, training does 
a great deal, and any person child or adult can 
be systematically trained to tolerate floods of pure 
cold air in the coldest weather. One important 
fact, however, should never be forgotten a child's 
body, being smaller, cools much more rapidly than 
an adult's. x 

5. FILTHY CHILDREN 

Later, in this paper, I shall indicate how filthiness 
,is prevented in German schools. Here, I should 
like to say that on no point are parents more 
sensitive than on the cleanliness or dirtiness of 



THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 9 

their children or their children's clothes. This is 
reasonable and honourable. I am satisfied that 
when, as was proposed in the recent Education 
Bill, the children are placed under systematic 
medical supervision, dirtiness of chHdren and 
clothing will tend to vanish. When every school 
has adequate washing facilities, the dirt will grow 
still more rapidly less. 

6. TEETH 

Is there still any educated person that does not 
believe in the hygiene of the mouth ? There may 
be yet a few in practice ; in theory, there should be 
none. For in this limited and well-worked field the 
facts are all one way, and there can be no dispute. 
It is a plausible speculation that we are, as a race, 
beginning to lose our teeth permanently ; but it is 
admitted that some millions of generations will yet 
appear before the normal man will emerge toothless. 
In the meanwhile we have time enough to clean the 
teeth we have and to keep them clean. Doubtless, 
some varieties of food tend to make decay come on 
faster. But that is only a reason for more care at 
the earlier ages. Doubtless, too, some children show 
decay more rapidly than others, and possibly the 
condition of the nervous system has something to 
do with the vanishing of the teeth. But this is only 
a still stronger reason for ensuring that the teeth, 
such as they are, get every protection we can give 
them. It is now accepted among dentists that the 
decay of teeth is due to micro-organisms, acting 



10 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

most readily in certain acid conditions of the mouth 
and eating away the enamel. At once we infer that 
if you protect the teeth against those micro-organ- 
isms, you delay, or arrest, or prevent decay. And, 
on the whole, this is true. But the mouth is an 
ideal incubator for germs, and nothing short of a 
thorough toilet once or twice a day will answer the 
purpose. But all the same, daily cleansing of teeth 
and washing out of the mouth can do a great deal. 
The dentist will do the rest. From the appearance 
of the teeth right through the period of the milk- 
teeth and continuously through life the teeth should 
be attended to daily. This is a counsel of perfec- 
tion ; but the school can do something either by 
systematic teaching or by practical drill. For my 
part, I am always glad to see a good figure and 
well - proportioned muscle, but if it is a choice 
between good muscle at school and good teeth, I 
prefer good teeth. The muscles will assert their 
rights without too much stimulation ; good guidance 
in a scientific system of training is all they want. 
But on the teeth the whole growth and nutrition of 
the body depend. It is now the exception to find, 
at the age of ten or twelve, a whole mouthful of 
sound teeth. And in other countries the tale is the 
same. I have seen the mouths of some two hundred 
German children, and the conditions were practically 
a repetition of what our own country produces. If 
this be so, is there anything absurd in suggesting 
tooth inspection and tooth-brush drill ? 1 We should 

1 If it be said, a dirty, germ-laden tooth-brush is worse than none, 
and may spread disease among the teeth, we may at once agree. But 



THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 11 

find fewer toothless recruits for all our services if the 
recruits at school were well looked after, 



7. MISCELLANEOUS 

There were other points that I intended to touch, 
but they would load the discussion too heavily. The 
hygiene of school life is now vast enough to justify 
an International Congress by itself. The first Con- 
gress, which met at Nuremberg last year, resulted in 
four large volumes, containing a total of more than 
2000 pages of investigation and discussion. As a 
further result, an international magazine of school 
hygiene has been inaugurated. Every civilised 
country was represented at the Congress, and the 
magazine represents a body of workers now numbered 
by thousands. It is hopeless even to attempt to in- 
dicate the enormous range of subjects that bear on 
the hygiene of the school. I have selected only one 
or two for a passing remark. As an instance of the 
growing importance and complexity of the problems, 
I may note one book, the Enzyklopaedisches Hand- 
buck der Schulhygiene^ which reckons among its 
contributors many of the foremost physiologists 
and educational thinkers of the world. The book 
runs to 1055 double-column, closely printed pages. 
The bibliographies appended to the articles show 

means should always be present to disinfect the brush. An American 
dentist declares it to be practically impossible to disinfect a dirty tooth- 
brush, and recommends pieces of sterile cotton for rubbing the teeth 
clean. But I do not grant the contention that a brush cannot be 
disinfected. 



12 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

the enormous variety and amount of work devoted 
to the school careers of our children. 



8. A VISIT TO Two GERMAN ELEMENTARY 
SCHOOLS 

In Wiesbaden last summer, I had the privilege of 
going on two occasions with a school doctor to make 
one of the fortnightly visits to an elementary school. 
I was anxious to see how medical supervision of 
public elementary schools is conducted in a town 
where the system has been in force for more than 
nine years. And I found the system, as one 
naturally expects in Germany, working smoothly, 
simply, unpretentiously. As one of the doctors 
said, " It is our policy in everything ; we must. It 
is different in England." The German "thorough- 
ness " (Gruendlichkeif] was as manifest in the 
medical supervision of the schools as in so many 
other departments of their great organisations. 
Whether the ultimate results will be better than 
our own I cannot tell ; but I felt we had something 
to learn from them, and I did my best to learn it. 

One morning, at nine o'clock, I went with one of 
the school doctors to an elementary school in one 
of the poorest quarters of Wiesbaden. The poverty 
is unmistakable, but, unlike our poverty, it is not 
chiefly manifested in dirty children dirtily clothed. 
It is difficult to discover either a dirty child or a 
dirty mother on the Wiesbaden streets, even their 
meanest streets, and we have seen most of these. 
This school, like all the Volkssckulen, or elementary 



THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 13 

schools, of the town, is large enough to accommodate 
1 300 children or thereby. The work of this 
particular morning was to examine some 35 new 
entrants that is, children just turned six years of 
age. The school year begins at Easter, and these 
were probably part of the annual influx. 

We proceeded direct to the department where 
the infant boys were. The class teacher, a man, 
had already received notice of the visit. He had, 
in a simple portfolio, a series of schedules, printed 
back and front. On these schedules he had already 
entered the names, addresses, ages, names of parents, 
occupations, class, the height and weight, and one 
or two other particulars. The portfolio was handed, 
with some explanations, to the doctor, who forthwith 
proceeded to examine the children in their order. 
He did so in the class-room, for in this school there 
is not a doctor's room. He had meanwhile secured 
from a higher class two boys, whose duty it was to 
assist in undressing and re-dressing the children. 
He examined first the general condition, and I must 
say most of the children were thin. They did not 
seem to me any better nourished than our own 
children of the same grade ; but, as simple inspection 
is very deceptive, I make this remark subject to the 
correction afforded by the heights and weights. 
The doctor recorded the nature of the constitution 
as good, medium, bad. He examined the throat 
and teeth, using a separate piece of wood as a 
tongue depressor for each child, and throwing it 
away to be burned afterwards. He examined nose, 
ears, eyes, skin, bones, joints, spine, heart, lungs, 



14 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

ascertained the presence or absence of hernia 
(rupture), measured the chest, tested the speech by 
making the child repeat certain test words, tested 
the eyesight roughly, and the hearing roughly. In 
suspected cases, eyes and ears are afterwards 
examined more thoroughly. Any defects requiring 
correction or further expert examination are referred 
to the parents, who receive either a verbal or a 
written message saying that the child should be 
taken to the family doctor. Where the parents are 
very poor, they are directed to take the child to 
the town hospital or an eye dispensary. To this 
dispensary the Municipality contributes a certain 
sum in payment of the work undertaken. Similarly 
with every other condition requiring treatment, the 
parents are advised, inquiry is afterwards made as 
to the steps taken, and if nothing has been done 
further inquiry is made, and the child is ultimately 
attended to. The purpose of the immediate inspec- 
tion is not to treat, but to discover. But indirectly 
the steady pressure put on the parents ultimately 
results in treatment. Every defect discovered is 
entered on the schedule, with the date of the 
examination. The portfolio of schedules is then 
handed back to the teacher, who is responsible for 
its safe keeping. He hands it on to the teacher of 
the next class when the time comes for the passing 
of the class to the next stage. 

So far the entrants. Those found not fit are not 
permitted to proceed. The parents are com- 
municated with and advised. As to those just 
leaving school, a similar examination is undertaken. 



THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 15 

They have been under supervision all through their 
school course. The doctor is familiar with their 
history. He has already examined them at least 
twice. He now examines them a last time. He 
advises as to their fitness for this or that trade, and 
consults with the parents if need be. Education 
does not wholly stop at thirteen or fourteen, as with 
us. The child must attend, at least part of the day, 
at a continuation school or technical school, where 
the elements of the crafts are taught. He must be 
certified fit for this work, which is a sort of parallel 
to our " half-time " system. With us, however, the 
technical part of the training is carried out in the 
factory ; with the Germans, it is carried out in the 
school. In both countries there may be wage- 
earning ; but I formed the impression that with the 
Germans the educational side was primary. 

After we had thus scrutinised some thirty-five 
children, taking about an hour and a half to the 
process, we hurriedly looked through the sanitary 
arrangements of the school ; the dining-place, where, 
from charitable funds, free breakfasts and dinners 
are given in the winter-time or other times of stress ; 
the heating and ventilating appliances, and the 
shower baths. These I touch on again. 

A week later, I was able to visit a somewhat 
superior and more recently built school. This time 
I went with another school doctor on his regular 
fortnightly visit. He received from the chief master 
a sheet containing some sixteen names. These 
were marked as from different classes. We took 
them in order. The doctor went direct to each 



16 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

room, received from the teacher the schedules of the 
particular children that in that class required exam- 
ination, picked out the children and directed them 
downstairs to the doctor's room. The collection of 
the sixteen children from some six different classes 
in different rooms was the work of a few minutes. 
Two senior boys, as before, attended as assistants. 
Each child was taken, his complaint examined, and 
advice given as before ; eyes, ears, etc., of any new- 
comers were also investigated. Two children were 
to be examined with a view to having six weeks in 
a holiday school in the forest some miles away and 
higher up country. Two or three cases of eyes 
were referred to the eye dispensary. A case of skin 
disease was diagnosed, and the boy requested to 
inform his father (who wanted to know) that the 
disease was not infectious. There were one or two 
very young children showing signs of feeble- 
mindedness or backwardness. And so on through 
the day's list. This is done every fortnight. The 
doctor assured me that once a month or once in 
two months would be quite enough ; the short 
period of a fortnight was somewhat exacting to a 
man in medical practice, and was sometimes apt to 
give occasion for trivial complaints. But practically, 
on any one occasion, an hour suffices. 

In both schools it was easy to see that the doctor 
was an ordinary and accepted part of the school 
service. He seemed to be readily welcomed by the 
teachers, and was sometimes waited for by the 
parents, who wished to get his personal opinion of 
their children. So simply and unostentatiously and 



THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 17 

rapidly were the cases disposed of that one wonders 
why there ever should be any objection to such 
systematic inspection. 

Afterwards I was taken to see the children in 
the bathroom. In Wiesbaden, as in Nuremberg, 
the elementary schools, and the higher schools 
too, are all fitted with shower baths. Pipes 
are carried round at a height of about seven feet 
from the floor. The floor itself is tiled. In some 
cases an area is sunk about a foot deep, con- 
stituting a shallow large bath. To the pipes are 
attached shower-roses six or eight in all. Each 
rose gives a shower sufficient to serve three to five 
boys. They stand under on a wooden board about 
3^ feet square, and wash themselves thoroughly 
with soap. The temperature of the water is regu- 
lated by an attendant, who, through a window, 
commands a full view of the bathroom, and turns 
on warm, mixed, and cold water at the right stages. 
The apparatus is simple. The water is supplied 
strictly in accordance with the thermometer. When 
the washing is sufficient a cool shower is given, and 
the boys proceed to the drying-room. There each 
has a towel. There are lockers or other places for 
the clothes. Undressing, washing, and re-dressing 
occupy about half an hour. On the occasion of my 
visit thirty-four boys were washing at once. They 
were certainly clean. They certainly enjoyed the 
game. Those suffering from any ailment may be 
exempted from the baths. In no case are they 
forced to bathe against the wish of the parents or 
the certificate of the family doctor. The whole 



1 8 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

matter is directly under the control of the school 
doctor. The two lowest classes, which contain the 
very young children, are not subjected to the shower 
bath at school. But it is obvious that cleanliness 
is an ideal much sought after, for in the fifty or 
more children carefully examined only two were 
found not clean, and they were new-comers, who 
had not yet come under the spell. Among the 
children higher than the lowest two classes, there 
was no such thing as an unclean child, and unclean 
clothing was conspicuous by its rarity. 

Of the six upper classes all the children have a 
washing shower bath once a week. In an ordinary 
elementary school in Wiesbaden there are normally 
about 900 such children. At the rate of 160 a 
day these can all be washed with clean water in 
a week. As we have seen, 34, or, say, 35, can 
be washed effectively in half an hour, that is 70 
in an hour. In three hours of each day, with one 
male and one female attendant, the whole work can 
be done with perfect ease and without hurry. 

The shower bath has many advantages over the 
ordinary bath it is cheap, it is practically self- 
cleansing, it can be controlled for a large number 
at one time, it can be gone through more rapidly, 
and the water is current and therefore always clean. 
It has been found that it is an advantage to have 
the children passed through in groups rather than 
singly. The interest is greater, they help one 
another, and the number overtaken is greater. In 
some German schools there is also a swimming 
pond ; but this is for exercise, not for cleansing. 



THE HYGIENE OF SCHOOL LIFE 19 

The installations in Nuremberg were more luxurious 
than those of Wiesbaden, but all on the same funda- 
mental plan. Obviously, the system has been found 
a good one. The results were certainly admirable. 
In the report for 1903 I find that in one of the 
Wiesbaden schools the shower baths were regularly 
used by 36 per cent, of the boys and 33 per cent, 
of the girls ; in another, by 62 per cent, boys and 
83 per cent, girls; in another, by 84.7 per cent, 
boys and 44 per cent, girls ; in another, by 74 per 
cent, of the school ; in another, by 80 per cent, 
boys and 14 per cent, girls. The two lowest classes 
are excluded from those figures. 

How much does the service of school doctors 
cost ? A relatively trifling sum. In the elementary 
schools of Wiesbaden, a town of 98,000 or thereby, 
there are approximately 10,000 elementary school 
children. The amount allowed for the work of 
medical inspection is 5000 marks, or 250 a year. 
This is divided among seven doctors, there being 
seven main schools and two small schools. Each 
doctor has a school. He examines systematically 
all entrants and all pupils leaving ; he examines in 
each year the whole children of the third, fifth, and 
eighth classes ; he visits the school once a fortnight 
to deal with current cases. He has many other 
duties, such as supervision of the lavatories, ventila- 
tion, heating, bathing. He receives for this from 
30 to 50 a year, and no one can say that he 
is overpaid, even as payment goes in Germany. 

The Wiesbaden schools are only a type of what 
is done, in some degree or another, in every German 



20 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

State and in most European and American States. 
Japan is perhaps more advanced than any of the 
Western States in the detailed care given to her 
population. I have no doubt that, as already in 
London and many of the great English towns, so 
in Scotland we shall in a short time have the school 
doctor as one of the most important officers of the 
school service welcomed by the teacher and waited 
for by the parent. And the figures rapidly ac- 
cumulating from Glasgow, from Edinburgh, from 
Aberdeen, from Dundee are already demonstrating 
to us that the less we delay this improvement in 
our methods, the better for the individual children 
themselves and for the State, whose life-blood 
they are. 



NORMAL GROWTH IN THE SCHOOL AGES 1 

i. WHAT is GROWTH? 

WHAT is growth ? What is the school age ? 
What is normal growth? Why do we 
select the school ages ? 

If we consider the life of the human being from 
the cradle to the grave, we find it roughly divided 
into a period of growth, a period of maturity, and a 
period of decay. The period of growth may be set 
down as the first twenty- one years of life. And this 
is the period we wish to study. If we were thinking 
of the race, we should have to date from long before 
the cradle to long after the grave ; for, with very 
little reflection, we should discover that the individual 
has a history as old as the race, which is as old 
as the world. But growth in its widest sense we 
cannot here consider. We are thinking only of the 
short sections from five to fifteen, which is the ele- 
mentary school age, and from fifteen to eighteen, 
which is the secondary school age. Scotland and 
England differ somewhat in this matter ; for in 
Scotland, at least in the North, we habitually think of 
the elementary school as passing into the secondary 

1 Read to the Edinburgh Meeting of the Parents' National Educa- 
tional Union, 1904. 

21 



22 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

school, and of the secondary school as passing into the 
University. In Edinburgh, however, we are becoming 
more accustomed to the conceptions prevalent in the 
great English schools, which reckon the school age 
practically as from ten to eighteen or nineteen. In 
the Merchant Schools of Edinburgh, both for boys 
and for girls, the school age would run to seventeen 
or eighteen. Similarly with the other secondary 
schools. But I am less concerned with a rigid limit 
of years than with the leading fact that the school 
age on the whole coincides with the age of growth. 

2. THE STRESS OF SCHOOL LIFE 

The school is an artificial environment devised to 
teach the child how to abstract, how to select from 
the chaos of the world some guiding lines for his 
future life. Unlike the family, which is the focus of 
so many diverse purposes, the school has been 
devised for one sole purpose to direct, to develop, 
to mould, in a word, to educate. Even the phrase 
" to educate " is too wide ; for the school is only one 
among many agencies designed to prevent the 
scattering and the wasting of character. In a society 
like ours, it may be regarded as a specialisation of 
one function of the family. It assumes that the 
individual is incapable in his short lifetime of himself 
attaining to the best that the race has achieved ; 
that, if left to himself, he may develop, but the 
development will so diverge from the good and the 
useful that the ultimate result to him is futility for 
himself and evil for the race. To prevent this 



NORMAL GROWTH IN SCHOOL AGES 23 

relapse, to economise the energies, to make the most 
of him for the short time that he has to live, to 
enable him, in a word, to realise himself to the best 
purpose, we place him in restraint, we put upon him 
heavy burdens, we check, we curb him, we break him 
under the yoke of civilisation pain, sacrifice, duty. 
We drive him into system ; we catch in him what is 
good and preserve it ; we restrain what is evil and 
blot it out ; we order his day that he shall learn in 
the shortest time, by the quickest method, with the 
least effort, all that we conceive for him of the good 
and the beautiful and the true. For these ultimate 
aims and for nothing less, we place him tender, 
fragile, variable, full of mysterious activities in a 
new world full of difficulties and depressions and 
disciplines and broken hopes. The school is the 
novitiate for the Service of Man. Is it a wonder if we 
begin to ask fundamental questions about growth ? 
Are we not right to inquire whether the task be not 
too great, the strain too terrible, the trial too pro- 
longed, for a personality so mysterious and so delicate, 
for a mind so bursting with impulses, for a nervous 
system so fluid ? Is it not well that we should 
know how the strains and stresses and burdens fit 
the needs of growth ? 

It is in the school age that this life normally 
begins. It is, therefore, our business to discover how 
the child should grow during this period, how he 
should develop, what we should provide for, what 
encourage, what prevent. I assume, too, that 
whether he remain at home or go abroad into the 
world, every child comes to his school age, the age 



24 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

when the family is too small, too inadequate for the 
unfolding mind. And the school age passes. Soon 
or late, a day comes when Freedom, which is re- 
sponsibility, sounds the trumpet-call, and the novice 
passes out to his post. Then there is anguish, there 
is breaking of hearts, but the division of child and 
parent is accomplished. To every regret, to every 
tender remonstrance, to every entreaty, each in his 
own dialect utters the same reply : " Woman, wist 
ye not that I must be about my Father's business ? " 

3. BRAIN AND MUSCLE 

The primary intention of the school is to train 
the mind. In an era of predominant muscle-worship 
this may sound like a paradox. But by the mind, 
I understand the whole character as it is influenced 
by the discipline of intelligence applied to life. 
In this wide sense everyone will accept the view. 
But at the basis of the prevailing practice there 
seems to lurk the suspicion that the specific work of 
school, the exercise of the brain and the formation 
of mental habits, has in it something hostile to 
physical development. It is quite true that the 
neglect of the general organism may result in condi- 
tions that make good mental work impossible. It 
is equally true that, on occasion, the healthy boy or 
girl whose time is taken up mainly with the care of 
physique, with the exercise of muscle, with the 
direct improvement of every organ except the brain 
and nervous system, may pass in the race many that 
care only for mental work, or in physical language, 



NORMAL GROWTH IN SCHOOL AGES 25 

the improvement of the brain. But so far as my 
observation goes, the danger of long continued mental 
work is largely imaginary. Nor am I prepared to 
accept the idea that no young mind should ever be 
put on the strain. I cannot understand why, with- 
out the slightest reproof, a boy may play all day long 
to his own hurt, but he may not work for a few 
hours without the risk of observation or comment 
from the parent or the friend. All work and no 
play is said to make a dull boy. It may be so. But 
the most interesting boys of my acquaintance have 
all been workers, and some of them played a good 
deal. These half-expressed truths are apt to be the 
cover for laziness. They can never be a sound 
guide for school life. I doubt if anything has been 
done anywhere to show by definite scientific proof 
that the amount of work done in any of the ordinary 
schools, whether regulated by Code or by the demands 
of the special class for whom the school is provided, 
affects seriously the physical growth of any boy or 
girl. It is very difficult to bring those notions to 
the test of facts, but the experience of the great 
school physicians, like Dr. Clement Dukes, of Rugby, 
should go some way to dissipate our fears. I am 
inclined to think that more physical damage results 
from excess of physical exercise, or erroneous pressure 
of exercise, under unskilled management than from 
any excess of head-work. If we always have re- 
gard to the symptoms of fatigue and act promptly 
upon them, the risk of excessive head-work in boys 
of school age is small. I do not see why high 
pressure should be quite an expected thing in games, 



26 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

a thing to work up to, to train for, to guide the life, 
while strain of the head, the same head that manages 
the muscles, is reprobated as dangerous. It is so 
easily forgotten that muscular fatigue means also 
indirectly cerebral fatigue. It is the same brain that 
works the muscles as works the senses. It is 
governed by similar limits whether the exercise be 
predominantly of the motor centres or of the sensory 
centres. Whatever can be properly named " work," 
whether it be muscular or whether it be purely 
cerebral, involves cerebral exhaustion as its ultimate 
stage. 

4. WORK, PLAY, AND GROWTH 

The relation of growth to work is very complex, 
because the children that " work " (in the ordinary 
economic sense of work for a living) are the poorer 
children ; their nurture in every respect is less 
adequate than the children of the richer classes 
enjoy, and it is consequently difficult to disentangle 
how much of their defective growth is due to labour 
and how much to deficient or incorrect food or bad 
housing or want of sleep. But broadly, it is proved 
that the working children at any given age up to 
the cessation of growth are smaller in stature and 
lighter in weight than the children of the leisured or 
richer classes. It is hardly necessary to prove by 
figures a fact that has been established in almost 
every civilised country, not least conclusively in 
Britain itself. The causes of the differences are, as 
I have indicated, manifold ; but broadly they may 
be summed up in this that the children of the 



NORMAL GROWTH IN SCHOOL AGES 27 

poorer classes do more work and the children of 
the richer classes have longer play. Perhaps it 
would be nearer the truth to say that both the 
parents and children of the richer classes have more 
play, they have better houses, they can arrange that 
their children shall have better food, more sleep, a 
longer period of irresponsibility. 

5. THE RELATION OF GROWTH TO NUTRITION 

" Growth is in some way and in some degree 
influenced by nutrition, that is, by the food and 
air supply of the organism. It is a question for 
evidence whether a child badly nourished in the 
early years of life ever attains to the same stature 
as it would have attained to had its nourishment 
been sufficient. Some have maintained that early 
starvation does not ultimately affect growth, provided 
the food is sufficient in the later growing years. 
Others, on the contrary, maintain that where nutri- 
tion in early life is bad the full stature is never 
attained. It is certain that, whatever be the effect of 
nutrition on the ultimate limit of growth, the rate of 
growth varies, according as nutrition is sufficient or 
insufficient " (Med. Inspect, of School Children, p. 206). 

" Influence of Nutrition on Growth. There has 
been much discussion on the influence that nutri- 
tion, or alimentation, or the social condition, may 
have. As far back as 1829, Villerme declared 
that the stature is higher and growth more active 
in the communities that are richer, better nourished, 
and better protected against inclement weather. 



28 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

Quetelet gave out the same opinion, and the 
majority of those that have studied the question 
come to the same conclusion'; for example, Cowell 
(1883), who has compared the statistics of 1062 
factory children and of 228 children of the leisured 
classes ; Bowditch also, but with him the defective 
conditions of existence act more on the height 
than on the weight, and this is seen in the fact that 
children of the working classes are heavier, height 
for height, than children of the leisured classes ; 
these latter being absolutely taller and heavier. 
On the other hand, opinions diverge ; Boudin does 
not quite believe in the nutritional conditions, and 
maintains that there is a considerable race effect; 
Donaldson admits certain action, but maintains 
that this affects the male sex more than the female. 
Porter admits that a considerable difference in social 
condition and in material prosperity may exist 
without much influence on growth up to the 
acceleration that precedes puberty. Key says that 
want prolongs the period of feeble growth anterior 
to puberty, and that the period of rapid development 
consequently supervenes at a later epoch. . . . On 
the whole, there would be a delay in time ; but the 
final condition would not be altered. Roberts comes 
to a different conclusion from the establishment 
of puberty, growth is more active in the non-working 
classes, ceasing at nineteen or twenty years of age ; 
in the artisan class, growth is more uniform, and 
continues up to twenty-three or thereby. Still he 
points out a fact analogous to that spoken of by 
Key. For him, the growth that precedes puberty 



NORMAL GROWTH IN SCHOOL AGES 29 

begins a year or two earlier in the leisured class, 
and in these the average stature is greater. The 
Anthropometrical Committee of England admits 
also that the leisured classes are, at every age, taller 
and heavier than the working classes. Gussler and 
Uhlitch have compared the children of the Burger- 
schule of Fribourg with those of the inhabitants of 
the surrounding country, and they have found that 
in stature at the same age the former exceed the 
latter. The figures following indicate the excess 
in size of the pupils of the Burgerschule over the 
children of both sexes of peasants (in centimetres) : 

Age . . 6j| 7 8 9 10 ii 12 13 

Boys . . .2.4 2.7 2.3 5.1 2.7 2.3 3.8 4.7 
Girls . . .3.9 3.6 2.8 3.8 4.5 3.9 3.1 5.1 

" Hence the conclusion that ' the children of 
the peasant females are, on the average, and with- 
out exception, smaller ; the children of the Burger- 
schule are greater than the average of the whole. 
It seems, then, permissible to conclude that the 
different social conditions in which the children 
live exercise an essential influence on their physical 
development ' " (Diet, de Physiologie Richet, art. 
" Croissance "). 

How far this difference in growth is to be counted 
a gain mentally or physically is a question that may 
well be debated. It may be forced growth and, like 
all forcing, may carry with it certain dangers. The 
boy of the professional classes grows more rapidly 
than the poorer boy, but ceases to grow at an earlier 
age. It would be wrong to say that he goes to leaf 



30 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

rather than to seed ; but there is always that danger. 
In any given case, this would be extremely difficult 
to establish. One must take account of so many 
factors : first and mainly, the size and growth of the 
parents ; next, the total physical capacity of the child 
as tested by his total output of work, mental and 
physical. It is not enough that the bigger and 
stronger boy should have more staying power on 
the football field. He must prove his superiority 
also in the schoolroom, in his college classes, in his 
profession. In Scotland, we are not inclined to 
admit that the greatest mental capacity and the best 
physical form are uniformly found together, or that 
the one is a necessary index of the other. We 
delight to see fine physical development in men and 
women, but we delight still more in seeing the fine 
flower of all development, the clear head, the endur- 
ing will, the capacity to devote oneself day by day, 
year by year, for a lifetime, to the realisation of 
lofty purposes, to the slavery of the ideal. I do not 
say one word against the fine results we sometimes 
see from the muscle-worship of the present hour ; 
but I cannot help wondering whether it is always 
informed of the same spirit or a breath of it that 
made great the lives of two men for whom we 
still mourn, Professor Alexander Bain and Herbert 
Spencer. These two, almost from the cradle to the 
grave, consecrated their every activity to the Service 
of Man, cultivating every organ, yet living a life of 
the most severe asceticism, and leaving to the world 
a great inheritance of thought ordered and made. 
They were, it is true, giants of a great breed ; but 



NORMAL GROWTH IN SCHOOL AGES 31 

they lived their long lives because they applied in- 
tellect to their every day. We cannot expect the 
same severity to become very common ; but it is 
more common than we are apt to think, and if we 
could be sure that the fine form of the public schools 
did, even on the average, do something to encourage 
these greatnesses of character, these potencies of 
will, these finer issues of the spirit, we should utter 
not one carping word against the games and the 
races and the exacting disciplines that the sons of 
our richer orders are made to follow for the whole 
of the growing ages and sometimes for long after. 
Even then, the final test is not the immediate growth 
in form. The test is the life lived through and the 
work done. And that has its measure in the in- 
surance offices, not in the standard tables of heights 
and weights. If you want to prove to me that the 
training of your son has been good, let me see him 
cross the bar of middle age without mischance or 
exhaustion. We know but too well that, in the 
poorer orders, middle age and pauperism often mean 
one and the same fact. We know that, in the artisan 
order, middle age is the time of great peril. It is 
so also with the richer orders ; but I am willing to 
be persuaded that the early training in the field 
does in some measure prolong the age of maturity 
as it certainly hastens the age of growth. " A sound 
mind in a healthy body " is what the whole world 
is striving for ; but mind as much as muscle is the 
product of function. It has to be made. It must 
be built up by exercise of its proper organs. Thoughts 
are made by thinking, not by waiting for inspiration 



32 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

from trained muscles. And a " healthy body " does 
not always mean a muscular body, nor is a highly 
developed muscular system a necessary condition of 
sound thinking. It is sometimes, on the contrary, a 
hindrance. These passing remarks are made here 
only as a qualification to the undoubted fact that 
properly regulated physical exercise not only pro- 
motes growth, but is essential to it. And by exer- 
cise, I mean irresponsible exercise, which is " play " 
not responsible muscular labour, which is " work." 

6. HEIGHT AND WEIGHT AS EVIDENCE 
OF GROWTH 

If a human being were a jelly-fish, we should 
have to test his growth not by measuring the 
height and weight, but by taking the specific gravity 
and measuring the total volume. But as he is a 
vertebrate, we have a simple means of testing his 
growth from year to year. For this purpose, it is 
a convenient accident that after a certain age the 
boy stands upright. We therefore call it a measure- 
ment of height. But all this means is that the 
bony skeleton grows slowly, and forms a convenient 
rigid framework for measurement. Every skeleton 
is normally " padded round with flesh and fat," which 
also grow with more or less regularity to a possible 
maximum. Measurement of height alone would be 
a good index of progress in growth. The measure- 
ment of weight is an important supplement. If we 
have boys enough, and if we measure and weigh 
them, we are able to fix roughly certain standards 



NORMAL GROWTH IN SCHOOL AGES 33 



of height and weight for every age, and so constant 
are the averages that we are able to make useful 
practical tables whereby to test the individual's 
growth at any given period of his life. In these 
measurements, we exclude the deformed and those 
suffering from acute disease. We consider mainly, 
if not solely, healthy children. Let us look at a 
few figures compiled for us by the great authorities. 
In order not to confuse our minds with too many 
quantities, we shall keep to the figures for boys and 
girls of ages from five to twenty-two, and we shall 
use for our illustrations figures collected by the 
Anthropometrical Committee of the British Associa- 
tion (see Report of the Royal Commission on 
Physical Training (Scotland), p. 64). 



BOYS. 



Age. 

5 
6 

7 
8 

9 
10 
ii 

12 
13 



16 

17 
18 

i9 
20 

21 

22 



Aver: 


ige Height in inches. Increase in 
41-03 . . . 2.57 


45-97 
47.05 
49.70 
51-84 


. 1.97 

. 1.08 
2.65 
. 2.14 
1.66 


54-99 
56.91 


. 1.49 
1.92 










66.24 - . 




66.96 


.72 


67.29 

67. "?2 


-33 


67-63 
67.68 


.11 

.OS 



34 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

GIRLS. 

Age. 

5 
6 

7 
8 

9 
10 
ii 

12 
13 
14 

15 

16 

17 

18 

19 

20 

21 
22 

These figures show, for the general population of 
town and country, averages based on somewhat 
limited observations, but corresponding with figures 
subsequently collected. It is to be noticed that the 
increase in height is not constant. It amounts 
almost to three inches in the year from five to six. 
It sinks to about one inch in the year seven to eight. 
It rises again to nearly three inches at the year 
eight to nine, falls to a little over two inches at the 
year nine to ten, to one and a half inch at the year 
ten to eleven and eleven to twelve. It rises to 
nearly two inches at the age twelve to thirteen, to 
two and a half inches at the age thirteen to fourteen, 
to almost three inches at the age of fourteen to 
fifteen. From that period onwards the rate of 



Average Height in inches. 


Increase in ii 


40.55 


2.22 


42.88 


. 2.33 


44.45 


. 1.57 


46.60 


. 2.15 


. . 48.73 


. 2.13 


51-05 


. 2.32 


53-10 


2.05 


. . 55-66 . . 


. 2.56 


57-77 


2. 1 1 


59-So . 


. 2.03 


60.93 


. 1.13 


61.75 


.82 


62.52 


.77 


62.44 





62.75 


.23 


62.98 


.23 


63.03 


. .05 


62.87 






NORMAL GROWTH IN SCHOOL AGES 35 

increase in height gradually slows down until, at the 
year twenty-one to twenty-two, the increase is only 
one-twentieth of an inch. This is for boys. The 
first great acceleration after infancy is towards the 
end of the first seven years ; the second acceleration 
is about the years of nine to ten ; and the third 
great acceleration is about the years of thirteen to 
fifteen. Thus, at the beginning of school life, and 
at the end of the elementary school course, we have 
two great periods of expansion. 

With girls, the rate of increase is somewhat more 
uniform. Growth begins to slow down at the age 
of twelve. By the age of seventeen, it has sunk to 
less than one inch in the year. 

Let us now turn to weight. For the correspond- 
ing ages in boys, the average weights in pounds are 
given below : 

Age. Average Weight in Ibs. Increase in Ibs. 

5 . . . 39.9 .2.6 

6 . . . 44.4 . . . .4.5 

7 . 49-7 . . -5-3 

8 . . 54.9 . . . .5.2 

9 ... 60.4 .... 5.5 

10 . . . 67.5 . . . .7.1 

11 . . . 72.0 .... 4.5 

12 . . . 76.7 . . . .4.7 

13 . . . 82.6 . . . .5.9 

14 . . . 92.0 . . . .9.4 

15 . . . 102.7 .... 10.7 

16 . . . 119.0 .... 16.3 

17 . . . 130.9 .... 11.9 

18 . . . 137.4 . . . .6.5 

19 .. . 139.6 . . . .2.2 

20 . . . 143.3 , . . .3.7 

21 . . . 145.2 . . . .1-9 

22 . . . 146.2 . . . .1.0 



36 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

The corresponding figures for girls are : 

Age. Average Weight in Ibs. Increase in Ibs. 

5 . 39-2 . . . .3-1 

6 . . . 41.7 . . . .2.5 

7 ... 47-5 -5-8 

8 . . . 52.1 . . . .4.6 

9 55-5 .3.4 

10 . . . 62.0 .... 6.5 

11 . . . 68.1 . . . .6.1 

12 . . . 76.4 . . . .8.3 

13 . . . 87.2 .... 10.8 

14 . . . 96.7 . . . .9.5 

15 . . . 106.3 -9-6 

16 . . .113.1 . . . .6.8 

17 . . . 115.5 .2.4 

18 . . . 121. i . . . .5.6 

19 . . . 123.8 . . . .2.7 

20 . . . 123.4 .... 

21 . . . 121. 8 .... 

22 . . . 123.4 . 

From these tables we observe that, in boys, the 
increase in weight roughly follows the increase in 
height. The two increases do not, however, move 
precisely together. There seems first to be a spurt 
of growth, then a spurt of increase in weight. A 
great expansion takes place in the years between 
twelve and sixteen. 

With girls, the great expansion takes place in the 
years between twelve and fourteen. 

If, with these averages for the whole country, we 
compare averages for the labouring classes, we find 
that, on the whole, for boys, the labouring classes, 
even in the country, are equal to the averages for 
the ages from five to ten, and almost equal for the 
ages up to fourteen. The number of observations, 



NORMAL GROWTH IN SCHOOL AGES 37 

however, is very small, and little importance can be 
placed on this comparison. The female children of 
town artisans, again, are distinctly below the average 
height at all ages up to sixteen. 

If, on the other hand, we take the professional 
classes in town and country, we find that for such 
of the ages as are recorded in these tables (age nine 
upwards) the heights of boys are distinctly above 
the average at all ages. Girls of the same classes 
are also distinctly above the average at all ages. 

If we consider weight, we find that on the whole 
the same relation holds, the labouring classes in 
the country being about equal to the average, and 
the artisans of the towns perceptibly lower than the 
average. The same is true both of boys and girls. 
On the other hand, the professional classes come 
out distinctly over the average in weight ; but the 
difference in favour of the girls of the professional 
classes is not so marked in weight as it is in height. 

Among the commercial classes of the towns, it 
is found that the deviation from the average height 
is perceptible both in boys and girls. But the in- 
crease is not very striking; sometimes the com- 
mercial classes are even below the average. In 
weight, boys of the commercial classes vary con- 
siderably, being sometimes a little above the average 
and sometimes perceptibly below. The girls, on 
the whole, approach to the average weights, but tend 
to fall a little below. 

These figures, and the multitudes like them that 
have been accumulated in many countries, must be 
studied very minutely if they are to yield guidance 



38 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

in practical life. Here it is enough to emphasise the 
broad fact that the richer classes show greater height 
and weight. From this we may draw the general 
inference that good nurture promotes growth. As 
we have already pointed out, however, we must not 
assume that growth is entirely a matter of height 
and weight. We must check these two indicators 
by the health and capacity of all the organic 
systems. 

It would be difficult to prove that these differences 
are radical differences in biological capacity. They 
are probably only differences due to differences of 
economic condition. It is probable that the poorer 
child suffers from long before birth, because the 
mother is not permitted to rest during pregnancy. It 
suffers after birth from all the causes that we deplore 
under the names of bad housing, bad feeding, over- 
crowding, over-stimulation, over-work. Whatever 
be the final and complete account of these facts, 
the broad contrast is there the public school boy 
grows more rapidly and grows more than his relative 
of the other orders. 



7. DIET AND GROWTH 

So much for the general relation of good nutrition 
to growth. Let us specialise a little to indicate 
what the actual diet of a school boy should aim at. 
As Dr. Burney Yeo points out : " It should be 
remembered that the education of the mind is, and 
should be, a ' lifelong ' process there is no need 
of hurry, but that the development of the body is 



NORMAL GROWTH IN SCHOOL AGES 39 

strictly limited to a certain period of existence, 
and becomes finally and irrevocably arrested at a 
given date" (Food in Health and Disease, p. 268). 
Our chief authority here again must be Dr. Clement 
Dukes, whose thirty years' experience of Rugby 
gives him a unique title to our attention. Dr. 
Dukes insists that the likes and dislikes of school 
children should be considered. Fats and starches 
are essential, but fat is very frequently repulsive to 
children. It is possible that education might reduce 
the revulsion, and certainly the effort should be 
made ; but, failing this, more sugar is essential. 
For the younger boys, Dr. Dukes recommends meat 
in some form at least once a day. For the public 
school boy proper, who is growing rapidly, he 
recommends meat twice a day. What quantities ? 
Here Dr. Dukes' figure sounds high to our Scottish 
ears. He insists that in the twenty-four hours, the 
meat or nitrogenous food supplied "should be one 
pound of uncooked meat, including fat, which means 
20 per cent, of weight of bone, 20 per cent, of 
weight which is lost in cooking, therefore giving 
60 per cent, of fat and lean cooked meat, or 
9.6 ounces" (The Book of Health, p. 693, art. 
" Health at School ").* He adds : " I have given the 
full amount of meat that is wholesome for the 
strongest and biggest boys, or those who are 
growing rapidly. I have done this purposely, 
though I am aware that younger and less robust 
boys could not get through the amount I have 

1 See also The Essentials of School Diet, by Clement Dukes, M.D., 
B.S., Lond. Rivingtons, London, 1899. 



40 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

specified ; for them the three-quarters of a pound 
of uncooked meat is the usual amount required." 
Fish he strongly recommends. But though he 
wrote twenty years ago, he might repeat his lament 
that this excellent food is yet waiting an adequate 
means of distribution. Vegetables he also, of course, 
insists upon. He found that in the autumn and 
winter, when fresh vegetables fell off, there was 
always " plenty of eczema." I am inclined to 
question which was the chief factor in producing 
the eczema the excess of meat or the deficiency 
of vegetables. The two chief meals of the day 
must be breakfast and mid-day dinner. Otherwise, 
the working capacity of the boy is seriously inter- 
fered with. In this, most workers with the brain 
will agree. Nothing can well be less scientific than 
loading the stomach in the evening with a staple 
meal and then expecting the brain to turn on its 
full power. Where heavy meals are taken late, 
the sleep cannot be good, and the head-work will 
be worth little or nothing. It was Professor Bain's 
custom for over fifty years to do his intellectual 
work at least several hours after he had had food 
on a fasting stomach, in fact. The brain works 
best when the stomach has least to do. Even in 
growing boys this is true. From all I can gather, 
the chief danger of many schools is the danger of 
over-feeding. But on this matter I speak without 
authority. 

For those that would study more fully the diet 
of the growing school boy, no better guide can be 
found than the writings of Dr. Dukes. As I have 



NORMAL GROWTH IN SCHOOL AGES 41 

said, he takes the strong English view of meat and 
its substitutes. Perhaps it is our Scottish training 
that makes us hesitate on the point, but I 
cannot help feeling that meat occupies too large a 
place in the economy of every public school, as, indeed, 
in most other economies. It is right to add, 
however, that Dr. Dukes intends his " pound of 
meat " to be rather the standard for " nitrogenous 
food " than an absolute prescription of so much ox- 
flesh (see Essentials of School Diet, 2nd edition, 
p. 185). In this, as in other matters, Dr. Dukes' 
opinions are based on extended concrete experience, 
checked by scientific theory. 

8. ALCOHOL AND GROWTH 

It is, I believe, the custom in some English public 
schools to supply the boys with beer or other such 
alcoholic drink for supper. I do not know whether 
any Scottish boarding-school follows this custom 
or not. Stimulants of all kinds doubtless affect 
growth in some way, but the parent that imagines 
alcohol in any form to be essential to boys of any 
age from five to fourteen, or for that matter from 
five to twenty-five, should be recommended to study 
elementary physiology for a few days. If, after 
that, and after reading what Dr. Clement Dukes 1 
has to say on the topic, he still persists in his 
curious opinion, he should consult his family 
physician in his own, if not in his child's, interest. 

1 Alcohol and Childhood, Church of England Temperance Publication 
Depot, 9 Bridge Street, Westminster, price one halfpenny. 



42 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

There may be forms of beer or wine that do boys 
little harm, but I have not yet met with them, and 
if their use is sanctioned by custom anywhere, it is 
a "custom more honoured in the breach than the 
observance." At any rate, if the parent, knowing 
what the results are, feeds his boy on beer, he might 
at least spare us the hypocrisy of lamenting the 
vicious consequence of his prescription. 

9. SLEEP AND GROWTH 

What relaxation is to the muscles, sleep is to the 
brain. For the growing boy, abundant sleep is 
essential ; for the growing boy whose brain is under 
training, sleep is still more essential. Boys of ten, 
according to Dr. Dukes, " require eleven hours of 
sleep, and the best time for it is, except on the very 
hottest nights in summer, from 8.30 p.m. to 7.30 
a.m. For boys under thirteen years of age, ten 
hours and a half should be set apart, from 9 p.m. 
to 7.30 a.m. For boys above thirteen, the eight 
and a half or nine hours permitted, but never 
obtained, are not too much, if enough, considering 
their active period of growth, and the amount of 
bodily and mental exercise they undergo. In bed 
at 10 p.m., which means sleep not much before 11 
p.m., and called at 6.30 a.m. for chapel at 7 or 7.30 
a.m., is, I believe, the rule in most public schools. 
With only this amount of sleep boys seem weary, 
and look as if they did not get sufficient rest " 
(Book of Health, p. 688). 

It seems to me that a simple rule for all boys is 



NORMAL GROWTH IN SCHOOL AGES 43 

that, given good health and vigour, they should 
sleep when they are sleepy, never attempt mental 
work when drowsy, rise early only if they can do 
so with vigour and not without too great unwilling- 
ness. One mother known to me has a very tall son 
of sixteen years of age. He is a hard head-worker 
and a fairly hard player. He has often pleaded to 
be permitted to sit up late to his work, but per- 
mission has been refused until he shows signs of 
being ready to get up in the morning when called. 
It is, I quite recognise, a severe test ; but it is 
physiologically sound, and boys brought up on that 
principle will go farther and, in the end, do more 
than those whose natural appetite for sleep is com- 
pelled to conform to the occasionally morbid habits 
of their parents. If there is no disease, the 
appetites of the organism are a safer guide for 
practice than the theories of any school. 

10. SOME DANGER POINTS 

The saints of sport are not long-lived. They 
have consecrated themselves to the worship of 
muscle. They forget that the same brain that 
should enable them to think is equally exhausted 
by the discipline of the muscles and the discipline 
of the mind. Persistent stimulation to muscular 
exertion has its dangers for the growing youth. 
Dr. Clement Dukes, to whom, in so many ways, 
this country owes so much, has shown by concrete 
facts that at the onset of adolescence there is great 
danger to the kidney, and that the indiscriminate 



44 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

indulgence in the hard physical sports of the public 
schools results very frequently in temporary or per- 
manent damage to it. The reason he offers is 
simple and convincing. It ought to be in the mind 
of the careful parent when his son or daughter is 
passing into the expansive age. It is this As 
adolescence supervenes, the heart grows rapidly. 
This is not all. It grows more rapidly in propor- 
tion than the other blood vessels. The result is 
that it is for the time too strong a pump for the 
size of the vessels it has to keep filled. The result 
of this is too great pressure in the vessels of the 
kidney, and the result of this, in turn, is inflamma- 
tion or congestion. This he has found very 
common among the boys at public schools. The 
damage done by excessive exercise when this 
condition threatens can hardly be over-estimated. 
It may mean lifelong enfeeblement. It may mean 
damage not to the kidney alone, which would be 
bad enough, but to the heart also and the organs 
directly and indirectly depending on it. I do not 
particularise this to alarm, but it is a fact of 
experience, and it should be always kept in mind 
as among the possibilities of development. That 
Dr. Dukes should be able to record case after 
case is proof sufficient that we are dealing with a 
fairly common result of the ordinary school exercises 
of our great schools. Doubtless the headmasters 
of the schools are alive to these facts, but the 
parents should equally know them and have them 
for a guide. 

I am not able to give parallel facts of the dangers 



NORMAL GROWTH IN SCHOOL AGES 45 

that attend the onset of adolescence in the girl. 
These are perfectly well known, but it is open to 
question whether they are always handled with 
perfect wisdom. 

ii. GENERAL TESTS OF HEALTHY GROWTH 

How shall we tell whether a boy is growing at 
the correct rate? How are we to know whether 
his life at school interferes with the increase of his 
muscles, his bones, his nervous system ? The parent 
cannot always be consulting tables of height and 
weight. He cannot be always weighing his child, 
week by week, to see whether he is maintaining his 
pace upwards. Neither can he be for ever calling 
in the doctor. He should I not rather say she, 
for it is normally to the mother that this work falls 
she ought to have some guide safe enough to 
enable her to prevent injury to the child. Does 
physiology offer any such guide ? I think it does. 

Let us assume that a child of competent parents 
has come to the age of five, that he has had all 
the advantages of good food, cleanliness, good air, 
freedom of play, in a word all that constitutes good 
nurture as it is organised by the parent devoted to 
the scientific care of children. The parents are 
confronted with the problem Shall we send him 
to school ? How shall the problem be answered ? 
If it were put to me, I should recommend the 
following course. 

Let the child be examined with minute care by 
the family physician, who knows the family history, 



46 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

the family habits, what reliance can be placed on 
the parents' undertaking, what ailments the child 
has passed through, what in reason he may yet have 
to encounter, what rate his mental and physical 
development has maintained. Let there be a 
detailed examination of the whole body, both in its 
general aspects and in its particular organs. Let 
the physician observe and record the state of 
development, the state of the nutrition, the sufficiency 
of fat, of muscle, the condition of the blood, the 
condition of bones, joints, skin, glands, heart and 
circulation, lungs and respiration, eyes and vision, 
ears and hearing, nose and nasal respiration, throat, 
teeth, digestion, capacity for action, capacity for 
sensation. Let him ascertain what sleep is taken, 
what the readiness for play is, what the mental 
capacity in general as shown by the child's history. 
Whatever defects in any of these relations he may 
discover, he should, as far as possible, rectify before 
the child enters on the new life. Let us assume 
that he has found certain defects of eye and ear and 
throat. He must either have them forthwith rectified 
or so inform the parent that the defect may be 
watched to an issue and not permitted to interfere 
with development. Let the parent study the record. 
Let it be the guide at every stage. If the child is 
found fit for school, let the experiment be tried. 
Let the effects on his nervous system be watched. 
If it be found that he maintains his vigour, his 
nutrition, his diet, his sleep, his readiness to play, 
then he does not find the load too heavy. If the 
new life results in restlessness, if the child grows 



NORMAL GROWTH IN SCHOOL AGES 47 

nervous, if he readily breaks down, if he shows signs 
of fatigue, if he cannot sleep peacefully for the full 
time, if he dreams of his lessons, if he a^ts in his 
sleep the work of the day, if he complains of 
headache, if he has no disposition for play, if he 
grows pale, if he loses appetite, if he loses fat, then 
once more the physician should be consulted. We 
have assumed that the school he attends is hygienic- 
ally good, that the air-space during work-time is 
adequate, that work is kept at a fitting quantity. 
If any of these symptoms persist, let the child be 
freed from every care and permitted to play. If, on 
the contrary, he shows none of these signs, it may 
be inferred that the new life will not touch his 
growth. But as a safeguard he should be examined 
at least once, if not twice, in every school year, in 
the detailed way I have indicated. So long as the 
physiological systems work well, the rate of growth 
is of little consequence. 

12. CONCLUSION 

Did time permit, I should have wished to go a 
little farther along these tracks. I should like to 
analyse the concept of growth as it is manifested in 
some of the individual organs of the body. I 
should like to show how the heart increases ; how 
the brain grows in complexity; how the muscles 
keep up a perpetual rhythm in response to the 
demands of mind ; how the intellect grows synthetic- 
ally from its first germs to its final revelations in 
science and action and institutions ; how, in a sense, 



48 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

the whole world we live in is of our own making 
and is our own. But were I to follow these lines of 
speculation, I should have to call my paper by 
another name ; although I should still be but 
showing forth the relations of the infinitely subtle 
mind of the child to the world he has come awake 
in, to the world where he will one day fall asleep 
again, leaving to it his work, evil or good. 

"They are but sailing foam-bells 

Along Thought's causing stream, V 
And take their light and sun-colour 
From Him that sends the dream." 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION AND SUPERVISION 
OF SCHOOLS AND SCHOOL CHILDREN 1 

INTRODUCTORY 

I THANK the Council of the Royal Society of 
Edinburgh for inviting me to lecture on the 
Medical Examination and Supervision of Schools 
and School Children. It is always an honour and 
a privilege to be permitted to address so distinguished 
a Society. It is also a great responsibility. Where 
the exact sciences are in the ascendant, where the 
traditions of clear thinking are so powerful, any man 
naturally hesitates to bring forward any proposition 
not capable of direct verification by experiment, or 
any practice not founded on fully thought out 
scientific concepts. Still more naturally may he 
hesitate when his subject is taken from the confused 
world of actuality, where the isolation of facts is 
difficult, where exact observation is almost impossible, 
where coherent science is still a distant ideal, where 
nevertheless concrete problems of immeasurable 
importance are pressing for solution. If I have 
dared to bring before you matters that are not yet 
scientific, it is because the presenting of crude facts 

1 Afternoon Lecture before the Royal Society of Edinburgh. De- 
livered, by request of the Council of the Society, I3th March 1905. 

4 



50 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

to a scientific Society may hasten the application of 
scientific methods to one immediate social problem 
What can the practice of medicine do to develop 
the mental and physical potentialities of the rising 
generation ? 

The present universal ferment of social ideas is 
not without a meaning. If any clear issue at all 
has yet emerged, it is that we are entering on an era 
of Personal Hygiene. As the beginning of the last 
century witnessed the great movement towards an 
improved environment, so the beginning of this 
century is witnessing a movement towards the im- 
provement of the organism. It has taken a century 
to persuade the ordinary citizen that his environment 
of house and street and atmosphere is after all in 
some measure his own creation, a thing plastic and 
manageable, a form answering to his will. Perhaps, 
with the greater pace of to-day, it may take less 
than a century to persuade him that when he has 
put his house in order, it is then his duty to fit him- 
self to live in it. The vastness of the problem need 
not appal us. Time is on our side, and many little 
things point the way to practice. One truth we 
have already realised if we would fit the man for 
his environment, we must begin with the child. 
" The child is father of the man." 

Two years ago the Physical Training Commission 
(Scotland) presented its Report. Last year the 
Physical Deterioration Committee presented its 
Report. Neither of these Reports professed to be 
exhaustive. The Scottish Commission started with 
the intention of discovering how the youth of the 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION 51 

country could best be physically trained into an 
athletic manhood, and ended with a proposal for 
further investigation of the facts. The Deteriora- 
tion Committee started with the question, Is racial 
dererioration a fact? and likewise ended with a 
demand for further investigation. In both Reports 
the school child is the focus of interest. This is 
not because the younger children or the adults 
are in themselves less interesting, or present more 
difficult problems; but because the school child 
has for a generation been under the direct control 
of the State in one of his many relations. And 
the school child, easily seen, easily examined, 
easily described, has enabled us to crystallise the 
conception of personal hygiene and to test the 
possibilities of remedial measures. I may say at 
once that I have no fears for the present or the 
future of our races. It has not been demonstrated 
that racial degeneration in the true sense has 
assumed to-day greater proportions than in any 
past period. Such deterioration as the various 
investigators have discovered is less a matter of 
inheritable defects than of defective environment. 
It is mainly a generational degeneration, and does 
not destroy the potency of the races to recover any 
ground they may have, for the moment, lost. It 
is the natural tendency of social reformers to look 
for a remedy before they have understood the 
disease. It is well to know that the facts will 
now be subjected to the criticism of cool science, 
and it is well to remember that the high priest did 
not fare well when he " trembled for the ark of God." 



52 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

In the matter of school children, the need for 
facts is paramount. By an accident it fell to me 
to have a share in the examination of 1200 
children, of whom 600 belonged to Edinburgh 
schools. When the facts, such as they were, first 
became known, we were freely accused of gross 
exaggeration. Because we said that some children 
were dirty when they were dirty, and others thin 
when they were thin, and others deaf when they 
were deaf, and others undergrown when they were 
undergrown, we were adjudged guilty of scientific 
heresy. When further, for one reason or another, 
the 600 children from Aberdeen showed a smaller 
proportion of the same defects, we were declared 
to have traduced the community we live in. This 
afternoon, I propose to put before you some leading 
facts of those investigations, and some facts even 
more striking from Glasgow, London, Manchester, 
Bradford, and Dundee. The charges of exaggera- 
tion, of gross error, of sensational misapplication of 
common knowledge, may or may not be true ; it 
is certain that up to the present those charges have 
been founded in prejudice and want of knowledge. 
The only way to disprove alleged facts is to produce 
other equivalent facts obtained by more exact 
methods. So far, as I think I shall persuade you, 
any facts obtained have rather confirmed than con- 
troverted the results published by the Royal 
Commission on Physical Training (Scotland). 

One word more in introduction. Such results 
as the various investigators have been able to 
produce have already persuaded the Parliamentary 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION 53 

mind. In their Scottish Education Bill of last year 
(1904) the Government included provision for the 
medical examination and supervision of school chil- 
dren. In England, the new education authorities 
have similar powers. The examination of school 
children is, therefore, no longer a question of doubt- 
ful politics. If it were, I should not have chosen 
this subject for a lecture. It has now all but passed 
into the region of administration, and that is why 
I offer you some suggestions towards practical 
administrative methods. 



i. MEDICAL SUPERVISION OF SCHOOL BUILDINGS 

It is proper to separate the medical supervision 
of schools from the medical inspection of school 
children. The separation of the two is founded 
on one important practical consideration. Already, 
the Public Health Acts provide for the medical 
inspection of school buildings. Without any in- 
crease of powers, it is already possible practically 
to secure that the structure of school buildings is 
in accord with the latest hygienic ideas, and that 
the premises are kept in a sanitary condition. The 
local authority for public health has the same 
control over schools as it has over dwelling-houses. 
The local authority is ultimately responsible to the 
Local Government Board, who can enforce within 
certain limits a sufficient sanitary inspection. Further, 
school buildings are scrutinised by My Lords of the 
Scotch Education Department, who satisfy them- 
selves both in general and in detail that the plans 



54 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

are executed on hygienic lines. It is true that 
many schools, especially in the rural districts, are 
unsatisfactory ; but it is equally true that the local 
authorities and their officers are steadily pressing 
modern views of sanitation on all those responsible, 
arid I have no doubt that, with the extension of the 
School Board areas, there will come an increased 
acceleration of school improvement. In cities 
there are few points of structure that need really 
give the administrator serious concern ; but there 
are many points of management where a closer 
medical scrutiny would result in improvement. 
Later, I shall mention one or two points ; but I 
refer to the matter here merely to indicate that 
administratively we are already in a position to 
deal with school buildings. 

2. INFECTION AND DISINFECTION OF SCHOOLS 

Perhaps it is well here also to dispose of infection 
and disinfection. Already, the powers of the Noti- 
fication and Public Health Acts are entirely adequate. 
If the medical officer of health suspects that infection 
exists in any school, he has the right to enter and 
to examine the children. If a school child is notified 
as suffering from any notifiable infection, or discovered 
to be suffering from any infection whether notifiable 
or not, he must be excluded from school until the 
medical officer of health or a medical practitioner 
certifies him free from disease and infection, and certi- 
fies that the house and everything in it exposed to 
infection have been disinfected to his satisfaction. At 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION 55 

the same time, the parent is under obligation to pro- 
cure the certificate ; the teacher is under obligation to 
exclude the child from school until the parent produces 
the certificate ; both parent and teacher are under a 
penalty of 2 for failing in these duties. As to dis- 
infection, the school is a house within the meaning 
of theAct,and what applies to an infected house applies 
equally to an infected school. In the rural districts 
a good deal of administrative difficulty has resulted 
from these drastic clauses ; but, on the whole, the 
results have been excellent. 

There is room for improvement and adjustment 
between the local authority for public health and 
the School Boards ; but this is a matter of detail, 
not a matter of principle. In Germany, the public 
health and the education authorities are practically 
one and the same. The ad hoc principle there 
applies rather to officials than to Corporations. In 
England, by the recent Act the public health and 
the school authorities are also practically identical ; 
but in many cases the officers are specialised for 
public health purposes or for school purposes. In 
Scotland, as I have indicated, the public health 
authority already has in a limited number of places 
the control of buildings, and has everywhere the 
control of infection and sanitation. The Bill intro- 
duced last year made no difference in this principle. 

What then remains to do? There remains the 
inspection of the school child, not for infectious 
diseases alone, but for all the diseases and conditions 
that in any degree unfit him for school life. How 
in practice are we to realise this end ? 



56 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

3. GENERAL SCHEME OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 

The recent investigation made for the Royal 
Commission on Physical Training was directed to 
one special object to ascertain whether there was 
any substantial ground for advising medical inspection. 
The schedule of particulars offers a model that, with 
a little adaptation, may be made suitable for routine 
inspection. The schedule, it is right to record, was 
primarily devised by Professor Matthew Hay of 
Aberdeen ; it was discussed by both investigators, 
and finally approved by the Commission. It in- 
cluded a large number of anthropometrical measure- 
ments, which could not well be expected from a 
routine inspection, but form nevertheless a valuable 
item in a general physical census of children. I 
refer to this schedule for two reasons, first, to 
indicate the scope of the particular inquiry, and 
second, to indicate how much is practicable in regular 
and periodic inspection. 

4. ROUTINE SCHEDULE 

On the basis of the Commission's Schedule, I 
have devised another, which has been subjected to a 
fairly severe test in Edinburgh, in Glasgow, and in 
Dundee. 1 It has been used to guide the examina- 
tion of over 3000 children. It is comprehensive, 
but not exhaustive. It indicates what is actually 
possible within school conditions in Scottish schools. 
It has been objected to as rather elaborate for 

1 See Medical Inspection of School Children, p. 73 and Appendix. 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION 57 

routine purposes; but the objectors have always 
difficulty in saying what ought to be left out. 

The schedule aims at treating the child as related 
at once to the home and to the school. If we are 
to secure the full advantage of medical inspection of 
school children, we must maintain a perfectly definite 
relation between the School Boards and the public 
health authorities. That is the primary purpose of 
relating the school child to his home. In Glasgow 
it has been found, as the result of the examination 
of 7 5 o children, that many conditions discovered in 
the school inspection have the most direct bearing 
on the cleanliness, the ventilation, the lighting, and 
the overcrowding of the homes. In Dundee the 
experience has been the same. Although, therefore, 
a number of the headings are not medical, they 
have a medical or hygienic reference. For these 
reasons I have suggested that whether used at the 
moment or not, they should be retained in any 
adequate system of examination. The school child 
is not an abstraction. He carries with him every- 
where the evidences of his daily nurture. He is 
well-fed or ill-fed, he is well-cleaned or ill-cleaned, 
he is well-clad or ill-clad, he is well-slept or ill-slept, 
and he is always one or the other because the home 
he comes from is wealthy or poor, clean or dirty, 
overcrowded or uncrowded, quiet or noisy. These 
facts offer an immense field for scientific study. 
The fitness of a child to begin a day's work at nine 
o'clock depends on his hours of sleep, on the food 
he has eaten, on the air he has breathed within 
the preceding twelve hours. One broad result 



58 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

emerges the house that suits the eating and sleep- 
ing necessities of the adult father and mother does 
not suit the necessities of the school child from five 
to fourteen. This fact at once opens up the 
question of nervous fatigue and its measurement. 
On this matter, I have no results to show ; but any 
physiologist would, I think, agree that school fatigue 
is, in mathematical terms, a " function " of the 
home life. 

The other items of the schedule bear on the 
life at school regularity of attendance, physical 
exercises, height, weight, etc. As I am able to give 
illustrations on some of the other headings, I need 
not discuss them generally now. 

5. MEDICAL INSPECTION IN NUREMBERG 

In many localities of Germany, Austria, and 
Switzerland, medical examination of children has 
proceeded for many years. I take a single illustra- 
tion from Nuremberg. The schedule and certificates 
(pp. 110-114) indicate at once the duties of a school 
doctor and the range of his examination. On the 
whole, the ground covered is much the same as it is 
in our own schedules. Nuremberg is a city of some 
270,000 inhabitants. It has fifteen school doctors, 
who give part of their time to the examination of 
children admitted, and the periodic re-examination 
of the children in attendance. The school doctor 
subjects each child of school age to a full examina- 
tion height, weight, chest measurement, eyes, ears, 
throat, heart, lungs, muscular condition, spine, bones, 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION 59 

nervous system, mental condition, degree of develop- 
ment, etc. The parent receives notice of the day of 
examination and may be present. If the child, 
though of school age, is not fit for school duty, he is 
not admitted. If he is found to have any defect, he 
is recommended for treatment. If, though suffering 
from some slight defect, he is found fit to begin work, 
he is kept under supervision from year to year. 
All the children are kept under general supervision 
through their whole school life. Infectious diseases 
are dealt with much on the same lines as we deal 
with them in this country. 1 In the recent Report by 
Mr. Andrews, H.M. Inspector of Schools, on the 
Examination of Schools at Charlottenberg and 
Berlin, similar details are recorded, and from the 
Report of the International Congress on School 
Hygiene at Nuremberg, 1904, many more illustra- 
tions might be derived. 

It is nowhere suggested that the medical inspector 
of a school should be responsible for treatment. 
Each country develops its own method of dealing 
with this problem. Parents frequently know nothing 
of defects in the eyes or ears or throats of their 
children, and, as is recorded in the Dundee Report, 
have been found only too glad to be informed. 
Many parents will of course remain indifferent. But 
many children suffering from defects will find their 
way to the dispensaries and the hospitals. There 
will, however, be a small remnant of children that, 
with our defective administration of charities, are 
not at present provided for, and may have to be 
1 See p. 106. 



60 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

dealt with by some new organisation the School 
Board or another. But my impression is that, in 
most localities, the remnant of diseased or defective 
children whose treatment is unprovided for will be 
small. In any case, it is our duty to discover how 
large or how small it is. The experience of London 
is that the work of the medical officer of the 
School Board has to be supplemented by the visits of 
trained nurses. New York has moved on the same 
lines. 

As a type of the child unprovided for, I single 
out the case of the child with scabies. The 
hospitals as a rule do not admit this disease. The 
dispensaries cannot conveniently treat the case to a 
finish. The parents are usually too ignorant or too 
ill-trained or too dissipated to carry out the cure. 
The public health authorities do not, for the present, 
accept the burden except in special cases. The 
result is that cases may become chronic and school 
departments become infected. In actual fact, how- 
ever, the amount of scabies in Scotch schools has 
not been found great; but it ought to be better 
provided for than our present machinery makes 
possible. The same is in greater or less degree true 
of favus, ringworm, and impetigo, which usually 
occur among the poorly nourished and poor children. 

6. INSTRUCTION OF TEACHERS 

In the three schedules I have mentioned it is pre- 
supposed that the teacher must play a primary part 
in any system of medical inspection. This is too 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION 61 

obvious to need enforcing. All over Scotland the 
teachers themselves have given evidence of a strong 
desire to become familiar not only with the general 
hygiene of school buildings, but with the more 
obvious signs of unfitness in the children as well. 
The School Boards, the Normal Training Colleges, 
and the Scotch Education Department have in 
their several ways responded to this desire. For 
many years the Department has required some 
instruction in the Laws of Health as part of the 
curriculum of the Training Colleges. At present all 
the Training Colleges in Scotland are arranging or 
have arranged such courses of instruction both 
theoretical and practical. These courses are speci- 
ally designed to put the teacher in a better position 
to scrutinise the class for obvious defects of eye- 
sight, hearing, breathing, and the like. It goes 
without saying that the teacher's interest in the 
physical and mental growth of the child is thus 
intensified. If the labour of the school is for the 
moment made greater, the value of the teaching is 
not made less. The more the teacher knows about 
the health of the children entrusted to him, the 
simpler and the easier will the work of medical 
inspection become. And it may be said at once 
that without the co-operation of the teacher the 
organisation of medical inspection is impossible. 

In the course of my observation I have found 
abundant proof that the teachers will welcome the 
installation of a regular medical inspection. Apart 
from the Normal Training College courses referred 
to, several School Boards have arranged courses for 



62 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

acting teachers. In one city some 300 teachers 
are at present (1905) attending a course of exposi- 
tions covering all the important points where the 
teacher is concerned with the health and fitness of 
the child. Doubtless these courses will be multi- 
plied everywhere, until every teacher has had an 
opportunity of becoming familiar with the practical 
aspects of school hygiene and the health of school 
children. Now that, in Scotland, the training of 
teachers has been placed on a national footing, we 
may reasonably expect that the movement already 
begun will be developed with greater precision and 
detail. It is right also to add that a general 
inspector of physical training for the whole of 
Scotland has been at work for a considerable time. 
He is organising the collection of general facts 
about height, weight, occupation, and certain defects 
of eyes, ears, etc. The beginnings thus made are 
preparing the way for the more elaborate physical 
examination that the new Education Act will 
make possible. 

7. MEDICAL INSPECTOR'S ROOM 

At present, our school plans do not provide for 
a special medical inspector's examination room. 
Until such a room is provided, on the same lines as 
the headmaster's room and others, the work of 
medical inspection' will tend to cause a certain dis- 
turbance in the daily work of the school. Such 
disturbance will be reduced to a minimum when the 
medical room is a recognised functional part of the 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION 63 

school. In Nuremberg I have not found any 
evidence that a medical room is provided; but 
Professor Burgerstein of Vienna, a leading authority 
on school hygiene, informed me that in the new 
schools of Austria a medical doctor's room will be 
provided. 

8. NUMBERS OF SCHOOL CHILDREN TO BE 
EXAMINED 

The number of school children attending Board 
schools in Scotland is over 800,000. We cannot 
hope to see this large army of civil recruits examined 
all at once. But if we assume that the new ad- 
missions amount to 10 per cent, that is 80,000, the 
task of examination becomes much less formidable. 
The majority of those children attend town schools, 
where medical service of every variety is easily 
obtained. When you distribute 80,000 children 
into small parcels varying from five or ten up to 
200, and spread their examination over half a year, 
the practical difficulties begin to disappear. In the 
town of Zurich in the year 1902, 2994 had 
attained school age. These were all examined on 
admission, and 4.7 of them were rejected as still 
unfit. What a town like Zurich finds to be possible, 
the towns and districts of Scotland will find to be 
equally possible. A detailed examination of children 
on admission will steadily reduce the amount of 
defects found among the older children, and the 
work of medical supervision will steadily become 
easier. 



64 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

9. STARTING-POINT OF THE RECENT 
INVESTIGATIONS 

In Britain the study of the school child owes 
an incalculable amount to the thirty years' labour of 
Dr. Francis Warner. He gives us a summary of 
his results with 50,000 London school children. 1 
The facts he details so minutely in his books have 
been lying before us for nearly a generation. The 
popular interest in them was stimulated once more 
by the lament over the results of the recruiting 
agencies. The table now shown indicates the 
grounds for these complaints and the causes of the 
many rejections. 1 

It is natural to inquire whether the defects found 
in the recruits of the fighting army may not be 
common to the recruits of all armies, and whether 
the facts incidentally revealed by the examination 
for war do not point the way to an examination for 
the ends of peace. 

10. ILLUSTRATIONS OF RESULTS 

So far the form and organisation of medical 
inspection. I shall now indicate some of the 
results already obtained. 

n. HEIGHT AND WEIGHT 

In Appendix XIX. to the Report of the Inter- 
Departmental Committee on Physical Deterioration, 

1 See Report of Royal Commission on Physical Training (Scotland), 
pp. 45 et seq. 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION 65 

Dr. Alfred Eichholz, of the English Board of 
Education, has given a series of valuable and in- 
teresting charts to illustrate the physique of school 
children. These charts he has constructed on a 
basis of height measurements. He has found that 
" height curves are easier to obtain, and display dis- 
crepancies better than weight curves. They are, 
therefore, preferable for purposes of statistical 
examination." This, no doubt, is generally true ; 
but, as I shall show you, the weight curve where it 
can be obtained is of extreme significance as a test 
of immediate nutrition. Before showing you some 
selected curves from this series, I should say that 
Dr. Eichholz's general conclusions are these : 

1 . " London shows greater extremes of excellence 
and superiority than provincial towns. The differ- 
ence between the good and the poor types is very 
grave. 

2. " The best children are practically equally 
good in all towns. 

3. "In the case of younger children, the worst in 
London are lower in stature than the worst else- 
where Manchester, Salford, Leeds. 

4. " The curves in Manchester and Salford are 
flatter than elsewhere, due possibly to the wider 
prevalence of rickets, but associated also probably 
with the Celtic strain in the population." 

12. SELECTION OF STANDARD 

A good type of London school Honeywell Road 
Board School, Wandsworth Common was taken as 

5 



66 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

a standard. In this school physical exercises were 
a speciality in all departments. The rate of growth 
was found more uniform than in either of the 
country schools compared with it, and as the 
selection of children seemed to represent a good 
quarter, the results were taken as a basis of com- 
parison. One small country town from the South 
and another from the North showed distinct devia- 
tions from the standard. The Southern town 
showed heights distinctly lower up to the age of 
eight, and perceptibly higher from age eight to age 
thirteen. The Northern town showed, for most of 
the available ages, heights slightly lower than the 
standard. These curves are based on the average 
height of twenty children of each year of school age. 
The heights shown are an average of boys and girls. 
This somewhat impairs the charts for the purpose 
of comparison, but the differences as shown are 
sufficiently striking. 

13. A Low GRADE TOWN SCHOOL IN A 
NEGLECTED DISTRICT (LONDON) 

In comparison with the standard, Johanna Street 
Board School, representing this district, showed 
" irregular growth and severe retardation of a very 
grave nature." This is in entire conformity with 
observations taken in Edinburgh, Glasgow, and 
elsewhere. In another school, St. Clement's Road 
Board School, which represented a criminal and 
neglected area of London, the same general retarda- 
tion in growth was conspicuous. 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION 67 

14. MANCHESTER 

In Manchester, two schools were compared with 
the standard. One, Ducie Avenue Board School, a 
school of the best type, on the whole held its own 
with the standard. Another school, Sharp Street, 
a notably bad slum area, fell distinctly below the 
standard at all ages. The curve serves to show 
that " good population in Manchester is practically 
as good as best in London. Apparent falling off in 
Ducie Avenue at later ages probably associated with 
the transference of the best children to the Central 
Higher Grade School and other higher schools." 
" In comparing schools, it is always important to 
remember causes of variation such as these. 

In Salford and Leeds the same general difference 
was found to prevail. In a poor grade school in 
Bethnal Green, where the London County Council 
have been erecting modern dwellings, the heights 
of the children were found at the earlier ages to be 
as good as the best, and at the later ages to be 
little short of the best. We are not to suppose 
that the erection of dwellings is in itself a cause 
of improved heights in the children. Rather we 
must assume that the better dwellings attract the 
better class of people. 

15. ELTRINGHAM STREET BOYS' SCHOOL, 
WANDSWORTH 

This school is situated in a poor industrial neigh- 
bourhood ; but for twelve years drill exercises and 



organised games appear to have been maintained. 
Towards the later years of school life the increase in 
height seems to approach the standard. One hesitates 
to assign this improvement in growth to the improve- 
ment in physical discipline ; but possibly, in general, 
this will be found associated with better feeding, and 
may on the whole be accepted as a factor in 
improved growth. 

In a Board school frequented by alien immigrants 
(Jewish), Dr. Eichholz found a high grade rate of 
growth. For the earlier ages up to eight, this 
school was perceptibly above the standard. For 
the other ages, it was a shade below. 

1 6. A SCHOOL FOR FEEBLE-MINDED CHILDREN 

Dr. Eichholz has had special experience of feeble- 
minded children in London schools. In one school, 
St. Clement's Road Centre, Nottinghill, he found 
conditions that indicated irregular and much retarded 
growth. Children of ten years of age show nearly 
five inches of deficiency in height. The curve of the 
feeble-minded is very irregular, and suggests sudden 
alterations in the rate of growth. 

17. WEIGHT CURVES 

As an illustration of differences in weight, a 
country school (Ripon), a good town school 
(Brudenell School, Leeds), and a poor town school 
(St. Peter's, in Sweet Lane, Leeds) were compared. 
Generally, the weight curve shows the same 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION 69 

differences as height curves. The poor children are 
always lighter as they are smaller. The rural schools 
on the whole approach the better town schools. 

1 8. SCOTCH SCHOOLS EDINBURGH, GLASGOW, 
ABERDEEN 

These charts indicate generally what we have 
recently found verified among the school children of 
Scotland. In the investigation made for the Royal 
Commission on Physical Training, the numbers of 
children chosen from Aberdeen and Edinburgh were 
admittedly too small to form an adequate statistical 
basis for general conclusions ; but, so far as the 
figures go, they follow the same general trend as 
those I have described. Recently, Dr. Chalmers, 
the Medical Officer of Health for Glasgow, has 
completed and recorded a physical and medical 
examination of 750 Glasgow children. The general 
result has been the same. In the poorer quarters 
the children are smaller and lighter than in the better 
quarters. In at least one of the Glasgow schools 
the children were found distinctly smaller and lighter 
than in Edinburgh. In the Report of the Physical 
Training Commission you will find a comparative 
table made from the British Anthropometric Com- 
mittee's standard, the Boston standard, and the 
results of the Aberdeen and Edinburgh investigations. 
Both for boys and girls, the heights of the Edin- 
burgh children are almost uniformly lower than the 
standard either of the Anthropometric Committee or 
of Boston. The Aberdeen children run much the 



70 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

same course as the standard, but perceptibly below 
Boston. 

I do not here raise any question of the validity of 
these figures as representing either the Edinburgh or 
Aberdeen children. Nor do I need to emphasise 
the fact that the British standard and the Boston 
standard are based on an examination of many 
thousands of children, whereas the Aberdeen and 
Edinburgh figures are based on an examination of 
600 children for each city. It is beyond question 
that both Aberdeen and Edinburgh can show children 
of all ages to reach the British standard ; but it is 
equally certain that both towns contain children that 
fall distinctly below. Edinburgh, as the larger city, 
naturally contains a greater aggregate of poorer 
children, and this fact naturally is manifested in any 
given school in a more striking way than in 
Aberdeen. Glasgow, again, has a still greater 
aggregate of poor children, and, as I have said, the 
heights for the poor areas fall perceptibly below 
Edinburgh. 

The weight curve follows closely the same course 
as the height curve. At the higher ages, the 
Aberdeen and Boston figures shoot upwards, but in 
Aberdeen at least this is probably due to the small 
numbers examined. The Edinburgh girls of thirteen 
and upwards rise rapidly above the standard. This 
also is probably due to the error of small numbers. 

Perhaps it is more instructive to compare the 
Edinburgh schools with one another. Naturally, 
the curves are somewhat more irregular, because the 
numbers compared are smaller. But the same 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION 71 

general truth is made manifest children from the 
better quarter are taller and heavier than children 
from the poorer quarter. The two extremes are 
Bruntsfield School, a higher grade school, drawing 
its pupils from a varied and good population, and 
North Canongate, drawing its pupils from a very 
poor population. The children from Bruntsfield 
School on the whole maintain the same level as the 
British standard, occasionally surpassing it. The 
children of this school are much more properly 
comparable with the children of Aberdeen. They 
do not, of course, represent the wealthier classes of 
Edinburgh, which would more properly be shown 
in the Merchant Company's schools and in the 
Academy. Incidentally, it is gratifying to learn 
that recently the Edinburgh Merchant Company 
have appointed two lady doctors to examine the 
girls in their Girls' Colleges. I do not happen to 
have figures for the children of the wealthier classes 
in Edinburgh, but I have little doubt they will show 
the same general superiority as elsewhere. More 
money means better nurture. 

19. DUNDEE SCHOOLS 

In the excellent Report just issued by the Social 
Union of Dundee, we find another mass of con- 
firmatory observations. In the tables of height and 
weight the " median " average is used instead of the 
arithmetical mean. This makes it inadvisable to 
compare the small numbers at any one age in 
Edinburgh, Aberdeen, or Glasgow with the figures 



72 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

from Dundee. 1 But, as the tables indicate, the 
contrasting figures within the city of Dundee itself 
are enough to show that there also the same general 
truth is verified. The children of the elementary 
schools are perceptibly less in height and weight 
than the children of the Harris Academy. In 
some respects the conditions found seem to have 
been distinctly worse than either in Edinburgh or 
in Glasgow. 

These figures, being so uniform, in various 
localities, even though they are so small, cannot be 
accidental. It is to be hoped that before long we 
shall have a much more extended basis of com- 
parison. The returns now being organised by 
Captain Alan Foster, Inspector for Physical Educa- 
tion in Scotland, will enable us to build up more 
reliable averages. I trust that the teachers and 
School Boards everywhere will extend to Captain 
Foster's work the cordial co-operation that is 
indispensable to the success of it. 

I have given you these illustrations of heights 
and weights not so much for their individual 
interest, as to point the way for much more ex- 
tended records. The Grammar School in Aberdeen, 
for example, maintains a physical register such as 
I should wish to see in every other Board school. 
There is room here for a wholesome rivalry among 
schools. Height and weight, it should always be 
remembered, are fundamental facts both in growth 

1 But on working out the Edinburgh figures by the " median " method, 
I found that the differences between the " median " and the arithmetical 
mean were always merely fractional. 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION 73 

and in nutrition. They are the first step to medical 
examination. Every teacher knows how to record 
them. Every school should have its weighing 
machine and its measuring standard. Every school 
should have its charts of height and weight for all 
ages. In Nuremberg, I noticed that the measuring 
standard was fixed on the side of the door of every 
class-room. This is also necessary for fitting the 
children to the desks. There the measuring of the 
children is a matter of routine. Before many months 
are over I hope it will be a matter of routine in every 
Scottish school. If by taking thought we cannot 
add a cubit to our stature, we may at least take 
means to discover where the cubit is wanting. 

20. MENTAL CAPACITY AND THE SENSES 

In every school there is a certain percentage of 
mentally deficient children. The School Board have 
under the present Code some powers of dealing with 
the mentally defective. The powers may need 
extension. But the percentage of the really defective 
in our Board schools is small. The percentage of 
dull children, however, is considerable. The dis- 
covery of the causes of mental dulness and retarda- 
tion is one of the most important purposes of 
medical inspection. The teacher does not take 
long to find out that there is an intellectual better 
and an intellectual worse in every class, even if 
the class number but two or three. It is not so easy 
to prove that, in a vast number of such cases, the 
dulness is due to some defect of the primary senses 



74 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

of eye and ear. But that such defects account for 
a great deal of mental backwardness is beyond 
question. As a concrete instance, let us look at 
the results of the Dundee investigation. Out of 
the thousand children examined, not less than 87, 
that is 8.7 per cent., were returned by the teachers 
as mentally dull. They were found by the medical 
examiners to be suffering from defects of eye and 
ear or both. That list alone is enough to justify 
the instituting of a systematic medical inspection. 
How shall the half-blind be taught to read, or the 
deaf to understand ? 

Is it quite fair that a child should be handicapped 
for life because in his nine years at school he found 
no one to suggest that an oculist should examine 
his eyes and an aurist his ears ? What a waste of 
public money it is to keep teachers working lamed 
senses like these ! 

Into the general question of the testing of mental 
capacity, I do not enter. It is a matter for the 
specialist in insanity and the educational psycholo- 
gist. There is material enough for them both. 

21. GLANDS 

Why is it important to examine glands? The 
question hardly needs answering. If you look at 
a picture showing the superficial glands of the neck, 
and another picture showing the deep glands of the 
neck, you will see at once why the examination of 
glands is indispensable. The glands are the sentinels 
of the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system is 
the absorptive system of the body. You cannot 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION 75 

prick the skin anywhere without entering some 
branch of a lymphatic vessel or canal. In vaccina- 
tion, for example, a few superficial scratches of the 
skin may, without drawing a drop of blood, pene- 
trate to the lymphatics and secure the absorption of 
the vaccine. The neck glands are of two orders 
deep and superficial. Some lie more to the front of 
the neck, others more to the back. Where the teeth 
are bad, the front neck glands are readily affected. 
Further, where the tonsils are inflamed, or the back 
of the throat, the glands associated with those 
regions forthwith become inflamed. Absorption by 
the glands, therefore, is of primary importance. 
They are the first halting-place of all infectious 
organisms entering from the surface. They may 
soften and break down, as commonly occurs when 
they are infected with tubercle. They may become 
hard and painful, as in acute inflammations of the 
throat or tonsils. They may become chronically 
enlarged, as is common in feeble and ill-nourished 
children. In short, they are always, either positively 
or negatively, a good indicator of the physical 
conditions. Among well-fed children, whose teeth 
are good, whose skins are clean, whose heads are 
free from vermin, whose throats are free from 
chronic inflammation, neck glands are very rarely 
enlarged. They are almost always enlarged to 
some degree in children whose teeth are bad, 
whose heads are verminous, whose skins are dirty, 
whose throats are inflamed. In one of the 
Edinburgh schools only seven cases of enlarged 
glands were found in 160 children. In another, 



76 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

some 45 cases of enlarged glands were found in 
the same number. All over, 18 per cent, were 
found in Edinburgh schools. In one Glasgow 
school 29 per cent, were found, and in the best 
school there the percentage was 12. For Aberdeen 
children the percentage was 2. In the best Edin- 
burgh school the percentage was about 4. In 
Dundee the percentage was 37.3 among boys; 
2 among girls. In the best Edinburgh school none 
worth recording occurred among girls. Swollen 
glands are so easily observed that every teacher is 
capable of observing them. 

22. DEFECTS OF RESPIRATION ENLARGED 
TONSILS AND ADENOIDS 

The normal child breathes through the nose. If, 
when not excited, he usually or even occasionally 
breathes through the mouth, it is because he is 
suffering from some obstruction of the nasal 
passages or from some defect in the shape of 
the mouth or palate. It is not to be assumed 
that every child with an open mouth breathes 
through the mouth ; for the tongue may press 
against the roof of the mouth while the lips remain 
open, and thus the mouth-breathing is sometimes 
only apparent. As a rule, however, mouth-breathing 
indicates some degree of nasal obstruction. Ob- 
struction may be due to enlarged tonsils, to chronic 
inflammation of the nose, to the narrowness of the 
nasal openings, to the overgrowth of the nasal 
septum, or, more commonly, to the overgrowth of 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION 77 

the delicate lymph tissue lining the back parts of 
the nose and throat. Such growth of lymph tissue 
is now familiarly known to everyone as adenoids (or 
gland-like growths), or nasal vegetations. They vary 
in degree from an almost imperceptible elevation of 
the tissue to large hanging masses that entirely ob- 
struct the nasal passages. The results to the child 
are serious. He is backward in development. He 
is i stupid. He is liable to repeated colds. He is 
more open to infection. His speech is affected. 
His hearing is affected. His whole nutritional tone 
is affected. Here I should like to show you the 
nose as it would appear from behind in a bad case 
of adenoids. It is obviously impossible through so 
small an opening to transmit freely the air necessary 
for correct respiration. I should like also to show 
the tonsils in their normal development. Very fre- 
quently adenoids go with increased size of tonsils. 
The chronic inflammation that leads to enlarged 
tonsils inflames also the back of the throat and 
blocks the air tube between the throat and the 
middle ear (the Eustachian tube). The result is 
that the air within the middle ear is not renewed 
as often as it should be ; on the contrary, it becomes 
absorbed, and then, by the pressure from the outer 
air, the ear drum is forced inwards. Technically, 
this is known as retracted membrane. Retraction 
of the membrane affects the hearing for all purposes. 
It may result in absolute deafness. It usually results 
in dulness of hearing. It probably, almost cer- 
tainly, interferes with the perception of musical pitch. 
A " bad ear " for music may be literally a bad ear. 



78 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

If these be some of the consequences that flow 
from enlarged tonsils and adenoids, it is surely more 
rational to waste a little time in medical diagnosis 
and treatment than to waste the teacher's voice in 
compelling the infant to hear. Enlarged tonsils and 
adenoids are so common in some communities that 
they are by many physicians reckoned practically 
normal. Normal in one sense they may be they 
are the results of structural defects or wrong habits 
in breathing or in nurture. But whatever the cause, 
it is usually possible to apply some remedy. It is 
fortunate that nasal obstruction so rapidly leads to 
a feature so easily observed by the teacher as mouth- 
breathing must always be. If I were a teacher, my 
first scrutiny of my class every morning would be a 
scrutiny for mouth-breathers. My first order would 
be, " Shut your mouths." Any child that cannot 
breathe freely and easily with his mouth shut ought 
to be set aside for the medical inspector. 

23. ASPECT DUE TO ADENOIDS 

When a child is cured of adenoids the open 
mouth and the somewhat stupid expression give 
place to the closed mouth and a look of greater 
intelligence. Even in adults the removal of nasal 
obstructions seems occasionally to work a similar 
transformation. 

24. TEETH 

The question of bad teeth has been agitated so 
long, and the resulting issues are so grim, that I 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION 79 

may pass the subject with a word. Elsewhere, at 
the risk of appearing ridiculous, I have suggested 
tooth-cleansing drill as a possible addition to the 
innumerable disciplines of the school. The sug- 
gestion would be ridiculous did we not know that 
all the digestive functions, which involve the whole 
nutrition of the body, depend on the teeth. Nor 
this only. It is known that infective germs may 
live in the teeth and produce chronic ill-health. In 
one city, the mention of tooth - cleansing drill 
resulted in a proposal to establish prizes for the 
best and the cleanest teeth. Good and clean teeth 
are at least as worthy of a prize as well-developed 
muscle. A clean mouth means a great deal to the 
child. However long the school medical inspector 
may be delayed, the school dental surgeon should 
certainly be hastened. 

An English dental surgeon, with whom I visited 
two orphanages at Nuremberg, assured me that he 
could keep the teeth of each institution right at an 
expenditure of thirty shillings a year on material. 
He had had large experience of Poor Law schools in 
England. 

25. EARS AND HEARING 

The teacher has endless opportunities of testing 
the hearing. Every hour of the day he is applying 
the voice test He should have no difficulty in 
knowing every case of defective hearing in his class. 
If a child cannot hear the words " twenty-two " 
whispered clearly at twenty feet distance, he ought 
to be carefully examined. If he cannot hear a 



8o THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

watch ticking at a foot away from the ear, he is 
certainly deaf. Before a child is assumed to be 
feeble-minded or backward, his eyes and ears should 
be examined. Unfortunately, the conditions of 
school work make it difficult to apply precise tests 
to the hearing ; but the teacher, as I have said, is 
always applying a test that is of the highest value. 
He should be able at least to pick out the grosser 
cases of defective hearing. 

26. EYES AND VISION 

A short time ago I was consulted by a school- 
master who suffered all day from headaches. He 
had suffered for years. He suffered most when he 
read most. He had consulted a physician, who 
prescribed sedatives, possibly bromides. The head- 
aches occasionally disappeared when the drug was 
taken, but only at the expense of great nervous 
depression. He awoke every morning in the same 
dull, aching condition. The first thing I asked him 
was, " Can you see properly ? " He thought he 
could. I set up before him the usual test types at 
twenty feet distance. With one eye, he was able 
to read what was normal for his age. With the 
other eye, he could scarcely read at all without 
some straining for distant vision and a great deal 
of straining for nearer vision. I found that the 
defect in his defective eye was due in part to a 
small inflammatory adhesion dating from the time 
when he had measles, about the age of three. As 
a boy he had suffered slightly. As a student he 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION 81 

had suffered a good deal. As a teacher he had 
suffered enough to compel him to act rationally. 
I took him to a nerve specialist, who carefully 
examined his whole system, and found nothing but 
this trifling defect to account for the facts. Nothing 
except one thing I had discovered that he heard 
very badly, and on examining his ears I found him 
suffering from great retraction of the membranes. 
His deafness had supervened on a bad throat cold 
two years before. He had himself attributed it to 
advancing t years, and for the first time I learned that 
a teacher regards himself as old before he is forty- 
five ! His ears, indeed, turned out to be worse than 
his eyes. I took him to an ear specialist, who did, 
with only partial success, all that modern aural 
surgery could suggest. As for the eye, it was 
ultimately fitted with proper spectacles, and the 
teacher became a new man. 

This is an extreme case. The eye defects 
became most troublesome in adult life. But when 
one reflects that from twenty to thirty per cent, of 
our school children in Scotland suffer from eye 
defects needing correction or attention, we have no 
difficulty in imagining the sum total of misery that 
school work must entail. Every oculist will enter- 
tain you with scores upon scores of eye troubles in 
children, whose days and nights have been made 
wretched, whose health has been impaired, whose 
career at school has suffered, whose adult life has 
been permanently handicapped. 

Dr. Kerr, of the London County Council, found that 
with a little care the teachers were able to find out 
6 



82 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

almost all the children that suffered from eye defects. 
The percentage discovered by the teacher and the 
percentage verified by the oculist came very near 
each other. It is not intended that the teacher 
should become a skilled oculist, but he ought to 
know enough about eyes to tell when something is 
decidedly wrong. He ought at least to know that 
an eye defect may be at the root of his own 
headaches. 

27. SKIN DISEASES 

The skin diseases that give the teacher most 
trouble are ringworm, favus, impetigo, and itch. 
Fortunately, a specific diagnosis is rarely necessary. 
Each of these skin diseases constitutes so striking 
an abnormality that no one can miss it. 

28. INFECTIOUS DISEASES 

Probably no diseases of school life are better 
understood by the teacher than scarlet fever, 
diphtheria, measles, chickenpox, mumps, and whoop- 
ing-cough. Every sanitary student ought to be 
familiar with the early symptoms of these diseases. 
He should not be required to use the clinical 
thermometer ; but he ought to know that the normal 
temperature is 98.4 Fahrenheit, and that departures 
from it upwards or downwards are indicated by 
specific symptoms, such as pallor or flushing, 
depression or excitement, sickness, rapid pulse, rapid 
respiration. He should know the dangers of the 
various infections, the common modes of diffusion, 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION 83 

the chief symptoms. He should know how to direct 
the cleaning of a school, and the more he knows 
about the methods of disinfection the better for his 
own peace and the health of his children. 

29. HEART AND CIRCULATION 

How should the teacher know anything of the 
child's heart and circulation ? It is not easy to give 
practical directions here. But a teacher may at 
least observe whether a child is too pale, or suddenly 
flushes up, or easily goes short of breath, or faints, or 
exhibits the blue, unhealthy look of feeble circulation. 
It is not desirable that his pulse should be frequently 
felt, nor can any teacher be expected to diagnose 
defects of the heart that often puzzle the experienced 
physician. But sometimes in the schoolroom, and 
frequently in the gymnasium, symptoms of heart 
feebleness may appear. Fortunately, the percentage 
of serious heart disease in school children is not very 
great ; but still it amounts to from I to 6 per cent, 
and I know of no sure method of discovery short of 
examination with the stethoscope at the hands of a 
competent medical man. Slight ailments of the 
heart and circulation are common enough, and 
they are usually indicated by the poor nutrition 
of the children. 

30. VENTILATION AND HEATING 

It goes without saying that every teacher should 
know what good ventilation is, what the usual means 



84 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

of securing it are, and how every ventilation mechan- 
ism in a school is operated. He should also know 
what the correct temperature for a schoolroom is, 
in summer and in winter, and he should know how to 
regulate his own and his pupils' feelings by the 
thermometer. He should remember the difference 
in size between himself and his pupils. He should 
know that a small body exposes a greater radiating 
surface proportionally than a large one. The air 
cannot be too fresh, and if the choice lies between 
cool fresh air and warm foul air, the cool fresh air 
must have the preference. But teachers and children 
naturally complain of cold. Let it, therefore, be 
understood that it is no disgrace to wear the clothing 
necessary to keep the body warm. In the poorer 
schools, certainly it would contribute both to comfort 
and to work if, in the cold weather, the children 
systematically wore clothing suited to a cold room. 
It is, I think, accepted generally that cool air is 
preferable to warm, and no air can be too cold for a 
healthy person to breathe. If, therefore, the body 
is kept warm, the air may be of any degree of cool- 
ness without risk to the person. To my mind, the 
secret of comfortable rooms and schoolrooms is 
warm floors, warm walls, warm furniture, bathed in 
free draughts of cool air. The air, you will remember, 
cools an object much more slowly than the radiant 
heat of a fire warms it. 

In Dr. Kerr's last annual Report you will find 
excellent illustrations of the variations that occur 
in the air of a schoolroom during the hours of 
work. 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION 85 

31. LIGHTING 

The lighting of the schoolroom is a difficult 
problem, but it is rarely within the power of the 
teacher to improve it. He usually has to accept 
what the school architect chooses to give him. He 
should, however, concern himself to secure as far as 
possible that the children's faces are not set directly 
to the light, which, of course, should come from the 
left side. Beyond this, it is difficult to give any 
general direction. In certain Swiss schools, I am 
told, a form of blind has been devised to preserve the 
light and yet exclude the rays of the sun when these 
are too strong. The mechanism I mean is simply 
this, the blind-roller instead of being fixed at the 
top of the window is fixed at the bottom, and the 
blind, instead of being pulled down, is pulled up as 
far as necessary. The general light of a schoolroom 
may thus be maintained and the offending rays at 
the same time excluded. 

Experts have worked very minutely over this field, 
and their results will ultimately find their place in 
the administrative mind. If the choice of school 
sites were unlimited, to secure good lighting would 
be an easy enough problem. But in cities the 
school must often be adapted to the small area 
available ; the design suffers, and the architect 
sacrifices lighting to other considerations. 

32. SCHOOL SEATS 

It is impossible to discuss all the problems 
associated with school desks and school seats. At 



86 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

the Nuremberg Congress this was one of the points 
that excited the keenest discussion. The market 
has been flooded with patterns of every variety. 
In the Nuremberg schools the favourite seemed to 
be the school bench that accommodated two children 
and could be tilted over to make the cleaning of the 
floor easy. In most cases the desks were not 
adapted for standing. In order to stand, the children 
had to step out into the gangway. But whatever 
be the form of desk, the business of the teacher is to 
see that the child sits straight when he is sitting. 
I know it is the ideal of the teacher to make the 
child sit still, straight, and uniform. Personally, 
I hope that ideal will remain permanently unrealised. 
Attempts have been made to give the child a mov- 
able seat. But if the child is not allowed to move, 
the movable seat will not help him physiologically. 
Dr. Kerr, whose experience of school hygiene entitles 
him to be heard, strongly favours the isolated in- 
dividual seat. Of course, the sizes must be adjusted ; 
but the main point is that the individual seat allows 
greater liberty of movement to the child and greater 
facility for adjusting himself to his neighbour. 

33. GENERAL SANITATION OF THE SCHOOL 

The teacher ought to know something of school 
sanitation. This, it is true, is on the whole well 
provided for under the Public Health and Education 
Acts. But the teacher ought to know generally as 
much about lavatories and drains as will enable him 
to report any defects that may occur. Fortunately, 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION 87 

in the modern school all sanitary appliances are so 
simple, and so easily managed, that the town teacher 
has little trouble with them. Still, I have known 
of a Higher Grade school of the most modern design 
where, for want of a little effective supervision by 
a responsible official, the sanitary conveniences had 
passed into a state of such unspeakable filth as to 
be a danger to the whole school. This condition 
is not so rare as we should all wish it to be. 



34. CONCLUSION 

Many other points remain ; but we cannot be 
exhaustive in a single paper. Every teacher will 
naturally study the proper division of the day into 
periods of work, of rest, of recreation. He will 
want to know the physiology of fatigue, the rise and 
fall of nervous energy through the twenty-four hours, 
the relation of acquisitive capacity to the meal-times, 
what work to require when the mind is fresh, what 
routine to order when the attention flags, what limits 
to place on muscular exercise. But these problems 
are rather problems of physiology than of medicine, 
and in any case they are too difficult to be dealt 
with in a phrase. 

If, in what I have said, some things appear to 
you trivial, do not let this be your last thought 
about them. From the right point of view, there is 
nothing unclean or common. And the Service of 
Man knows no holier ritual than the nurture of the 
child. " Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least 
of these, My brethren, ye have done it unto Me." 



THE SCHOOL DOCTOR IN GERMANY 

AN ounce of example is worth a pound of 
description. For this reason, I here translate 
two sets of Regulations for School Doctors. These 
Regulations have in them nothing vague, nothing 
doubtful. They contain certain points that concern 
Germany alone, and do not concern any British 
organisations. But those points may be neglected, 
and they are given here only to preserve the sets of 
Regulations complete. 

Of the two sets, the Nuremberg set is the more 
formal ; the Wiesbaden set, the more practical. But 
the actual work is much the same in each town. The 
Regulations, with the Health Schedule and Certificate 
forms, constitute a Code of duties for School 
Doctors. 

If for the " Magistracy " we substitute the School 
Board or the Education Authority, we may apply 
almost every one of these rules to an English or a 
Scottish system of Medical Inspection. The essential 
points are always the same general constitution, 
height, weight, chest, heart, eyes, ears, etc. 

Ten years of practice in Wiesbaden and seven 
years in Nuremberg, not to speak of the years of 
systematic examination in many other cities, show 
that Medical Inspection may be carried out in great 



ss 



THE SCHOOL DOCTOR IN GERMANY 89 

detail within the ordinary conditions of school life. 
The Regulations require nothing excessive. They 
are strictly practical. They combine general hygiene 
with personal hygiene. I have seen them at work 
in Wiesbaden, and I can say that they are there 
applied with the simple thoroughness that seems to 
mark the best German work everywhere. 

The Wiesbaden Health Schedule seems to me 
the better adapted for its purpose. The subject- 
headings run across the top of the paper ; the 
school years run downwards. Both back and front 
of the schedule are used. The single sheets are 
easily arranged and preserved in a leather portfolio. 
This passes on from class teacher to class teacher. 
The schedules lie quite loose in the portfolio, and 
thus are easily removed and replaced. They are 
large enough not to go readily amissing. 

For the information obtained in Wiesbaden, I 
have to thank Dr. Cuntz, Senior School Doctor, 
Member of the Town Council and Medical Repre- 
sentative on the School Commission, and also Dr. 
August Strieker, School Doctor. I was able to 
accompany each of those gentlemen one, at an 
examination of new entrants ; the other, at a general 
fortnightly inspection (see pp. 1 2 et 



REGULATIONS FOR THE SCHOOL DOCTORS AT- 
TACHED TO THE MUNICIPAL ELEMENTARY 
AND MIDDLE SCHOOLS OF WIESBADEN 

It is the duty of the School Doctors to supervise 
the conditions of health of the pupils assigned to 



90 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

them, to co-operate in the medical examination of 
the rooms and installations belonging to the school, 
and to execute in this regard all the orders of the 
Magistracy. 

In particular, the following rules must be carried 
out: 

I. The School Doctors must carefully examine the 
bodily condition and the health condition of all 
newly entered pupils, in order to determine whether 
they require a prolonged medical supervision or 
special attention during instruction at school, e.g. 
exclusion from instruction in particular branches, 
e.g. gymnastics and singing, or limitation in time 
given to instruction, assigning of a special seat on 
account of defects in sight or hearing, etc. 

Besides this detailed examination, which must be 
undertaken in the first four to six weeks of the 
school year, the newly entered pupils must, within 
the first two to three days, be subjected to an 
external examination for communicable diseases 
and vermin. 

For each child examined a health schedule must 
be filled up, and this must accompany the pupil 
through his whole school period. If a child appears 
to require constant medical supervision, the entry 
Medical Supervision " must be made on the top 
right corner of the first page. The column " general 
constitution " is to be filled up at the entering 
examination of each child, the categories " good," 
" middle," and " bad " being used. 

Children whose general constitution is entered 
as " bad " are to be treated as under medical super- 



THE SCHOOL DOCTOR IN GERMANY 91 

vision until the School Doctor enters them expressly 
on the health schedule as no longer in need of 
supervision. 

(The term " good " is to be used only in perfectly 
sound health conditions, and " bad " only in pro- 
nounced dispositions to disease or chronic illnesses.) 

The other headings are to be filled up only in 
case of necessity and that at the entering examina- 
tion, or in the case of illnesses supervening in the 
course of the later school years. The weighing and 
measuring are undertaken by the special class 
teacher in charge, and must be entered for each 
half year in the appropriate column, correct to half 
a centimetre (less than a quarter of an inch), and a 
quarter of a kilogramme (about half a pound). The 
measurement of the chest is taken by the Doctor, 
but only in children that are suspected of lung 
disease or whose general constitution has been 
entered in the health schedule as " bad." 

2. In the same way as has been described 
under Section I for the detailed examination of new 
entrants, the School Doctors have to examine the 
whole children of the third, fifth, and eighth school 
year. These examinations are to be carried through 
in the month of October or November. 

Here it is expressly to be noted and entered 
in the health schedule whether and in what way 
diseases noted at an earlier period have altered. 
The constitution and its alterations are to be given 
in each case. 

It is desirable that, after the examination of the 
pupils of the eighth year that are ending their term 



92 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

at school, a final opinion on the total development 
of the child during the school period be entered 
on his school schedule and, in particular, a reference 
made to any noteworthy illnesses that have occurred 
during that time. These are to be noted in the last 
column by the class teachers. 

On these examinations of the later school years 
a special report must be filled up in the form used 
at the first examinations and transmitted to the 
Senior School Doctor in terms of Section 9. 

3. Every fortnight, and more frequently if in- 
fectious diseases are prevalent, the School Doctor 
holds a consultation at the school with the School 
Director on a day previously arranged ; for example, 
the first and third Thursday of the month. Time : 
at ten o'clock in the forenoon, and not later than 
twelve o'clock. For this purpose, if at all possible, 
the Doctor should have a special room put at his 
disposal. 

If the Doctor wishes to visit the school on a day 
other than that previously arranged, he must 
intimate the fact to the School Director at least 
three days in advance. 

If any unforeseen difficulties occur, the day of 
visit should be postponed till the following week. 
The first half of the consultation should consist of 
a visit of ten to fifteen minutes' duration to Classes 
2 to 5, while instruction is going on. 

Each class must, if possible, be visited twice 
during the half year. At those visits the whole of 
the children should be subjected to an external 
inspection. When any special observations suitable 



THE SCHOOL DOCTOR IN GERMANY 93 

for immediate discussion are made, information is 
asked from the teacher, and given him, in return, if 
he wishes. 

If, on those occasions, individual children appear 
to require more precise examination, this is afterwards 
undertaken in the Doctor's room. 

At the same time, those visits serve for the 
inspection of the school premises and their arrange- 
ments, as well as for the supervision of the ventila- 
tion, heating, deportment of the children, etc. 

In reference to the teaching, the Doctor is warned 
that he should tactfully avoid all exposure of a 
teacher before his class. 

At the second part of the consultation, any 
necessary investigations of a more precise kind are 
to be undertaken. 

Further, children from classes other than those 
visited on the particular day are to be brought to the 
Doctor, but only in really pressing cases, and especi- 
ally where there is a suspicion of illness from 
infectious disease. 

The health schedules of all the children to be sub- 
mitted for examination must be laid before the 
Doctor or sent to him by the class teacher. The 
teacher concerned must, if at all possible, be present 
at the medical examination. For the notification of 
the other classes and the provision for the care 
of the children concerned, the School Director is 
responsible. This is best done by circulating 
among all the classes, a day in advance, a form 
on which the individual teachers note whether any 
children and how many require medical examination. 



94 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

The medical treatment of sick children is not the 
business of the School Doctor. If such treatment 
appears necessary, the parents concerned are to be 
advised of the fact. To them is left the choice of a 
doctor ; but it is recommended that where necessary 
in special cases (eyes, throat, nose, etc.) any 
necessary directions to specialists be given. With 
the older children this can be done verbally. 

If an intimation of this sort is without result, 
and always in younger children, the printed report 
forms are to be filled in. 

But this is to be done only in serious and import- 
ant illnesses, where the interest of the child or of 
the school necessitates energetic measures. 

In the filling in of the particular form, all harsh- 
ness and rudeness of expression are to be avoided. 

The School Director is responsible for sending the 
form to the parents concerned. 

4. The health schedules for each class are to 
be preserved in a durable portfolio and remain in 
the school so long as they are not required by the 
School Inspector. 

The schedules with the entry " Medical Super- 
vision " are to be laid before the Doctor at every visit 
to the class. If a child passes into another school, 
his health schedule must be sent thither by the 
School Director. 

5. The School Doctors must, at the request of 
the School Director, examine individual children in 
their homes in order to ascertain whether, in cases 
where the parents bring no other satisfactory medical 
evidence, absence from school is justified. 



THE SCHOOL DOCTOR IN GERMANY 95 

6. The School Doctors must at least once in the 
summer and once in the winter inspect all the rooms, 
lobbies, etc., and their fittings and furnishings. At 
this, as at other visits, any appropriate observations 
on the condition of the matters to be supervised, as 
well as on the maintenance of the cleansing, ventilation, 
heating and lighting, also any recommendations 
arising out of these observations, are to be entered 
by the School Doctors in the book kept by the 
School Director for the purpose. 

7. The School Doctors have no authority to give 
any direct instructions to the School Directors or 
Teachers or to the Janitors or other school servants. 
If they consider that any recommendations made by 
them in relation to the treatment of the children or 
the hygiene of the premises have not been satis- 
factorily carried out, they must report their com- 
plaints to their Representative on the Health 
Committee. 

In pressing cases, they may also give intimation 
to the Town School Inspector, and, as regards 
nuisances that require the attention of the sanitary 
police, they give intimation also at the same time to 
the Imperial District Medical Officer. 

8. With a view to regular and rapid procedure, 
the Representative of the School Doctors on the 
Health Committee will summon his colleagues to 
general consultations, to which the Imperial District 
Medical Officer of Health is to be specially invited 
if there is any question of the health conditions of 
the premises. In winter, the School Doctors will, at 
the teachers' meetings, as far as desirable and prac- 



96 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

ticable, give short contributions on the most important 
questions of school hygiene. 

9. The School Doctors must, by the 15th of 
May at the latest, send to the Senior School Doctor 
a written report on their work during the school 
year just ended. 

The Senior School Doctor must, by 1st June at 
the latest, present to the Magistracy these individual 
reports with a short critical general report. In the 
preparation of the reports the following seven points 
are to be attended to : 

(1) Tabular numerical statement of the results 

of the examinations of the entering 
classes, and on a special form the ex- 
aminations of all the later years. 

(2) The number of the consultations held or 

medical visits made to the classes. 

(3) The number and nature of the more im- 

portant cases of illness that have been 
submitted for examination at the con- 
sultations. 

(4) Any resulting special medical orders (limita- 

tion of hours of instruction, of gymnastics, 
etc.). 

(5) The number of the written reports sent to 

the parents and the result. 

(6) The number of school children remaining 

under medical supervision. 

(7) A summary of the defects recorded in the 

hygiene book in reference to the rooms, 
etc. 

10. If a School Doctor has to leave the city for 



THE SCHOOL DOCTOR IN GERMANY 97 

more than a week, except during the time of school 
holidays, he must report the fact at the time to the 
Magistracy, and provide at his own expense a suit- 
able deputy. 

1 1 . The School Doctors, besides a fixed yearly 
honorarium payable in quarterly instalments, receive 
from the Town Treasury also an amount calculated 
according to the number of school children examined 
in the third, fifth, and eighth years. The account 
must be presented in the month of December. 

1 2. The Magistracy may at any time, on proof 
of negligence, dismiss the School Doctor. In other 
cases, the engagement can be terminated only on 
the giving of three months' notice by School Doctor 
or Magistracy. 

13. The Magistracy reserve the right to alter or 
extend this order. 

WIESBADEN, 2nd January 1903. 



[TABLE 



98 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 



(Front) HEALTH SCHEDULE 

For Son Daughter of 

Born 19... School from 19.. 

Vaccinated 19. .. 

Re-vaccinated 19... 



Date 
and 
School 
Year. 


General 
Constitu- 
tion. 


i 

5 

a 

Cm. 


.9 

'53 



Kg. 


O Chest Mea- 
? surement. 


Chest and 
Abdomen. 


Skin 
Diseases 
(Para- 
sites). 


Spine and 
Extremi- 
ties. 


M. 
















F. 
















M. 
















F. 
















M. 
















F. 
















M. 

TV 
















F. 
















M. 
















F. 
















M. 

VT 
















F. 
















M. 

VTT 
















F. 
















M. 

VTTT 
















F. 

















THE SCHOOL DOCTOR IN GERMANY 99 



(Back) 



Date 
and 
School 
Year. 


Eyes and 
Acute- 
ness of 
Vision. 


Ears 
and 
Hear- 
ing. 


Mouth, 
Nose, 
and 
Speech. 


Special Obser- 
vations and 
Directions for 
Treatment in 
School. 


Reports 
to 
Parents. 


Remarks 
of 
Teacher. 


M. 
I. 
F. 


























If. 

II. 
F. 


























M. 

III. 
F. 


























M. 
IV. 
F. 


























M. 
V. 
F. 


























M. 
VI. 
F. 


























M. 
VII. 
F. 


























M. 
VIII. 
F. 



























ioo THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

REPORT TO PARENT ON POSTPONEMENT OF 
SCHOOL ATTENDANCE 

The medical examination ordered by the Magis- 
tracy in regard to the supervision of your child 

born 

has shown that he (she) 

is suffering from 

For the health of your child, as well as in the in- 
terest of the school, it is urgently necessary that 

WIESBADEN, 189 . 

The Magistracy, 

To 



REPORT TO PARENT ON DISCHARGE OF CHILD 
FROM SCHOOL 

By the medical observation of your child 

born 

it has been ascertained, 

as shown on the Health Schedule, that your child's 
health is not very good ; in particular that 

On the approaching discharge of your child from 
school attendance, you are recommended to take 



THE SCHOOL DOCTOR IN GERMANY 101 

medical advice on the selection of an occupation 
for him. 



WIESBADEN,. 



School Doctor. 



REGULATIONS FOR THE SCHOOL DOCTORS OF 
THE TOWN OF NUREMBERG 

1. It is the duty of the School Doctors, on the 
order of the Magistracy and the School Authority, to 
co-operate with the Imperial District Physician in the 
general health inspection prescribed by the State for 
municipal schools as well as for private educational 
institutions, infant schools, and kindergartens. 

2. The School Doctors must visit the public and 
private schools assigned to them at least three times 
a year, and particularly before Christmas, before 
Easter, and before the Summer holidays. On these 
occasions, they must pay attention to the proper 
condition of all the arrangements for the health of 
the children and teachers, above all to the arrange- 
ments for warming, lighting, ventilating, and cleansing 
of the schoolrooms, including the gymnasiums, 
school-baths, and lavatories. 

Further, they have to observe the deportment of 
the children, and to record their observation as to 
whether each child has had assigned to it the 
school desk corresponding to its size. 

In the schools assigned to them, they must also, 



102 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

on invitation, take part in the regular yearly visita- 
tions of the Municipal School Committee. 

Of their official actions and their observations at 
their visits, they must on every occasion make short 
notes on the prescribed form. These, along with 
the statistical information, are submitted at Christ- 
mas, Easter, and the close of the year, for the inspec- 
tion of the Magistracy, who, as occasion requires, 
have copies prepared, and send back the originals 
for preservation in the records of the School Doctor. 

3. The School Doctors must visit all the infant 
schools and kindergartens in their district at least three 
times a year and at the same intervals as they visit the 
town schools, and if any neglect is found to exist, they 
must report it as soon as possible to the Magistracy. 

4. The School Doctors must, further, subject all 
new entrants to a detailed examination in order to 
ascertain which of them requires special supervision 
during instruction (assigning of a place in the front 
benches, relief from instruction in particular branches 
and the like), or medical supervision during the school 
period. This examination is divided into three parts. 

The first is undertaken at the beginning of the 
school year, and must be completed by the end of 
the month of September. It consists of an external 
inspection of the children, and its object is to ascer- 
tain whether those fit for school that is, according 
to their bodily and mental development can undergo 
instruction at school without injury and with satis- 
factory results. If the School Doctor, in agreement 
with the teacher, finds that, in the interest of the 
child himself, as well as in the interest of the 



THE SCHOOL DOCTOR IN GERMANY 103 

general school teaching, it is necessary to postpone 
school attendance for a year, he records this in a 
certificate, of whose contents the relatives of the 
particular child are informed through the Inspectorate, 
who are responsible for the further measures necessary. 

The second examination must be completed by 
the close of the Winter half year that is, by Easter. 

For the carrying out of this examination the 
children must be presented to the School Doctor with 
the upper part of the body exposed, so that it shall 
be possible to examine precisely their bodily 
development and their health condition. 

To this second examination, which may be con- 
ducted either in the class-room or in another special 
room, and in the case of boys in the presence of the 
class teacher, in the case of girls in the presence of 
the class mistress or her representative, the mothers 
of the children are invited. It is accordingly 
necessary that a definite day be agreed upon 
between the teacher and the School Doctor, and 
that this be intimated to the mothers concerned. 

This examination is recorded on the health 
schedule provided, in the columns of which the 
teacher has already entered the personal facts con- 
cerning the child, and the School Doctor adds in the 
shortest possible way the condition of each child. 

The third examination is to be undertaken in the 
Summer half year, and must be finished by the 
beginning of the summer holidays. The children 
must have their hearing and eyesight tested. On 
the defects and diseases found the School Doctor 
must enter a brief remark in the health schedule. 



104 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

5. The health schedule is to be attached to the 
register and preserved with it. 

The health schedule of those children that on 
account of their unhealthy condition require repeated 
inspection by the School Doctor is to be marked 
" Medical Supervision," and submitted by the teacher 
to the School Doctor at the subsequent visits. This 
is to be continued until the School Doctor relieves 
the child from his supervision. The note referred 
to is then scored out. 

6. At his visits to the school, the School Doctor, 
in addition to the children under medical supervision, 
must also examine those children whose examina- 
tion appears to him necessary or is proposed by the 
teacher. The results of the examination are briefly 
noted in the health schedule. In a given case a 
new schedule is to be used. 

7. Where on examination a child is reported to 
be suffering from serious disease or defect, the 
parents are informed by a printed report and re- 
quested to put the child under medical treatment. 
This report is to be signed by the School Doctor and 
the School Inspector and sent to the parents by the 
latter. 

8. No examination of the children is made by 
the School Doctor if an examination by the family 
physician has been recorded on the proper form and 
the corresponding certificate produced by the parents. 

9. A detailed examination of the girls from the 
fourth school year onwards can be undertaken by the 
School Doctor only with the consent of the parents. 

On the other hand, the boys in the last quarter 



THE SCHOOL DOCTOR IN GERMANY 105 

before removal from the ordinary school must, if the 
parents so wish, be subjected to a detailed examina- 
tion, in order that special advice in relation to the 
choice of a profession may be given. 

10. Besides the provisions contained in Sections 
4 and 6, examinations are to be undertaken by 
the School Doctor : 

(a) When it is desired to admit a child to the 
ordinary school before the end of the sixth 
year, or when, in the case of boys of the 
ordinary or preparatory school, and girls 
of the ordinary or girls' Sunday school, it 
is proposed on account of their health to 
set them free before they are of school age ; 
(ft) When, in the case of individual children, it 
is desired to keep them back from school 
for a year or to free them from taking 
part in special branches of study ; 

(c) When, in the case of children that have con- 

tracted infectious disease, it is necessary to 
bring a certificate that they can be again 
admitted to school without danger to the 
other pupils ; 

(d) When there is a doubt whether absences 

from school are really due to illness ; 
(i) When there is reason to suppose that a child, 
reported by its relatives as ill without a 
more precise description of the illness, is 
suffering from an infectious disease. 
These investigations take place on the order of 
the acting School Inspector. They do not, however, 
take place when medical certificates are produced. 



io6 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

In specially pressing cases, the teachers are 
authorised to propose to the Inspectorate special 
examinations of individual children in their classes, 
These examinations may be undertaken during the 
consultation hour of the School Doctor attached to 
that school. 

If, notwithstanding the presence of a medical 
certificate, a request for medical examination of a 
child is made, this can be undertaken through the 
Inspectorate only with the sanction of the Magistracy. 

The certificate of the examination by the School 
Doctor is to be preserved with the schedule of the 
particular child ; in the town trade schools it is pre- 
served with the rector's records. 

1 1 . On the occurrence of measles, scarlet fever, 
diphtheria, and typhoid fever in the municipal and 
private schools, as well as in the infant schools and 
kindergarten, a report must be made to the School 
Doctor by the teacher or the head of the institution, 
and more especially when only one case of a par- 
ticular illness has occurred. On receiving such a 
report, the School Doctor must forthwith proceed to 
make a thorough examination of all the children 
present in the particular class or institution, and as 
soon as possible report the result direct to the 
Imperial District Medical Officer. On receiving this 
report, the latter will give the necessary instructions 
to the district police authority for example, the 
temporary closing of particular classes. In these 
investigations the School Doctor is entitled to send 
home from school such children as he finds to be suffer- 
ing from infectious disease or suspicious symptoms. 



THE SCHOOL DOCTOR IN GERMANY 107 

The occurrence of German measles and whooping- 
cough is to be reported by the teacher and attended 
to by the School Doctor in the manner given above 
only when several cases of these illnesses occur in 
rapid succession or simultaneously. 

The occurrence of cerebro-spinal meningitis is to 
be reported by the teacher in every individual case. 

Children that have passed through one of the 
diseases named in the last three paragraphs may be 
again admitted to school only when it is certified 
by medical certificate that the resumption of school 
work can be undertaken without danger to other 
children (Ministerial Orders of I5th February 
1844, 1 6th January 1867, and 8th June 1875). 
According to the local regulation of 22nd March 
1903, the certificate in the case of scarlet fever 
must state that desquamation over the whole body 
is complete, and in the case of whooping-cough that 
the convulsive cough has ceased. When no other 
medical certificate can be produced, the certificate 
is to be given by the School Doctor. 

12. Wholesale examinations of school children 
for the purpose of settling scientific questions can 
be undertaken by the School Doctors only when the 
Magistracy, by agreement with the Imperial District 
Medical Officer and the Local School Commission, 
have given permission. 

1 3. The School Doctors have no authority to give 
independent instructions. At the same time, it is 
their duty, on discovering any defect in the health 
conditions and arrangements of schoolrooms, to 
direct the attention of the Inspectors, the senior 



1 08 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

teachers, the teachers, and the house masters to the 
conditions discovered. Further, on any requests or 
complaints that may be made to them in regard 
to the health conditions, as well as on any defects 
observed by themselves, they must report forthwith 
to the Magistracy. 

14. The School Doctors must also take a regular 
part in the conferences summoned by the Imperial 
District Medical Officer. These are to take place, 
as a rule, three times a year, and questions affecting 
the health service of the school, and particularly the 
observations made at the visits to the schools, come 
up for discussion. 

They must further attend the conferences of the 
Royal School Inspectorate when summoned. They 
have a consulting voice in those deliberations. 

15. At the end of every school year, and at latest 
by the 1st of September, the School Doctors must 
send to the Magistracy a written report on their 
work. This report must contain 

1 i ) The number of ordinary and extraordinary 

visits made to the classes of the schools 
assigned to them. 

(2) A general statement of the number of 

children examined in the regular way 
and of the results of the examinations, 
classified according to the individual years. 

(3) A similar statement of the number of 

children examined for special reasons in 
the schools named, in institutions and at 
home, and the results of these. 

(4) The number of medical certificates issued. 



THE SCHOOL DOCTOR IN GERMANY 109 

(5) The number of reports sent to the parents. 

(6) The number of school children remaining 

under medical supervision. 

(7) A short statement of proposals made. 

(8) Any general remarks. 

On the basis of the yearly reports made by the 
individual School Doctors there is prepared a general 
report. Of this report a Doctor permanently en- 
trusted with this work prepares the purely medical 
part, giving in particular a general exposition of the 
examinations made. 

1 6. Medical treatment of the school children ex- 
amined constitutes no part of the School Doctor's duty. 

17. For their official actions the School Doctors 
must keep a day-book, which is preserved along 
with all official documents. The entries made by 
them are preserved as official minutes, and accord- 
ingly are the property of the Magistracy. They are 
to be preserved by each School Doctor, and in the case 
of resignation they are transferred to his successor. 

1 8. If, during a school year, a School Doctor is 
obliged to go off duty, he must receive leave of 
absence from the Magistrate. 

In his application for leave, it must be stated 
which of the other School Doctors undertakes his 
duty during the period of his leave. 

19. The School Doctors are appointed by the 
Magistracy for three years, subject on both sides 
to three months' notice. They may, however, at 
the end of their term be re-elected. 

NUREMBERG, ist December 1903. 



I io THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

FORMS OF CERTIFICATES, NOTICES, AND 
HEALTH SCHEDULES 

(l) POSTPONEMENT CERTIFICATE 

You are hereby informed that the child 

must, on account of a certificate granted 

by the School Doctor, be kept back from school for 
a year, since he (or she), in view of his present 
development, does not yet appear to be fitted for 
school attendance. 

NUREMBERG, 

Government Inspectorate. 



(2) INVITATION TO EXAMINATION 

On the a medical 

examination of the child takes 

place in the school You are 

hereby invited to be present personally at the 
examination. 

NUREMBERG, 19 . 



Class Teacher. 



THE SCHOOL DOCTOR IN GERMANY in 



(3) HEALTH SCHEDULE 



Medical Supervision, or not. 

For son, daughter, of 

Born on vaccinated on 

Admitted to school on re-vaccinated on 



No. 

i 


Subject. 


ISt 

School 
Year. 


2nd 
School 
Year. 


3rd 
School 
Year. 


4 th 
School 
Year. 


5th 
School 
Year. 


6th 
School 
Year. 


7 th 
School 
Year. 


Class. 


Class. 


Class. 


Class. 


Class. 


Class. 


Class. 


General bodily condition. 
















2 

3 


Height in cm. 
















Chest measure in cm. 
















4 

5 


Lung, Heart, Abdominal organs. 
















Skin and Parasitic diseases. 
















6 

7 


Spinal Column and Extremities. 
















Eyes and Acuteness of Vision. 
















8 
9 


Ears and Hearing. 
















Mouth, Nose, and Speech. 
















10 

ii 


Special observations or directions 
for treatment in school. 
















Date of Examination. 
















12 


Signature of Doctor. 
















Reports to Parents (date). 
















13 


Remarks of teacher, especially 
on the mental development 
and on any special physical 
peculiarity of the child. 

















112 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

REMARKS 

a. The general statements, as well as the designa- 
tion of the class (at the head of the table) and the 
columns corresponding to the Nos. 2, 12, and 13, 
are to be filled in by a teacher; the remaining 
columns are to be filled in as far as possible by 
the School Doctor, with the assistance of the teacher. 

b. No. i. The general bodily condition is to be 
indicated by numbers: i (good), 2 (medium), 3 
(bad). Thus, by i when the condition is perfectly 
healthy, by 3 when there is definite evidence of 
disease or chronic ailment, by 2 in all other cases. 
Continued medical supervision must be exercised 
over all whose bodily condition is marked 3. Where 
necessary, the words " Medical Supervision " are to 
be entered in the closed space at the right-hand 
corner of the schedule. 

c, No. 2. Height taken with shoes on. 

d. No. 3. Expiration and inspiration with arms 
hanging, to be measured at the level of the nipple 
and the middle of the scapula. 

e. No. 4. Suspected tuberculosis, hernia. 

f. No. 6. Curvature of breast, loins, spinal column. 
Extremities ; club foot, flat foot, shortening, diseases 
of the bones, congenital dislocation of hip, paralysis. 

g. No. 7. Test of acuteness of vision for each 
eye separately by means of test letters. 

h. No. 8. Whispering at 6 metres. Test of 
right and left ears separately. 

i. No. 9. Breathing through the nose, stuttering, 
stammering, audible and distinct utterance. 



THE SCHOOL DOCTOR IN GERMANY 113 

(4) CERTIFICATE OF ILLNESS 

The examination of your child 

by the School Doctor 

has shown that (or she) is suffering from 

You are urgently recommended to place the child 
as soon as possible under medical treatment. 

Signature 

School Doctor. 

Signature 

Government Inspector. 
NUREMBERG, 19 . 



(5) CERTIFICATE OF INFECTION 

NUREMBERG, 19 . 

Notice as to Illnesses from Infectious Diseases of 
Children. 

Remarks. In measles, scarlet fever, cerebro- 
spinal meningitis, typhoid, and diphtheria, each 
separate illness is to be reported. 

Inspection district 

Class 

School locality (street, storey, and number of class- 
room) 

Number of child (boy or girl) in class 

8 



ii4 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

On the child 

was reported as suffering 

from 

Any observations on the dwelling-house of the 
children, 

Signature of intimating Teacher 

To the Municipal School Doctor, 

NUREMBERG, 19 . 

To the Imperial District Medical Officer, 

Dr... 



The class was visited to-day by the undersigned, 
and the following report made. 

Signature 

(6) CERTIFICATE OF FREEDOM FROM INFECTION 

has recovered from 

his (or her) illness, and may from (date) 

again attend school. 

Remark I (in illness from scarlet fever). The 
desquamation is complete over the whole body. 

Remark 2 (in whooping-cough). The attacks of 
convulsive coughing have completely ceased. 

NUREMBERG, 19 . 

Signature of the Doctor 

N.B. In case of other illnesses, Remarks i and 2 
are to be struck out, 



NOTE ON RE- VACCINATION OF SCHOOL 
CHILDREN IN GERMANY 



ERMAN school children are re-vaccinated just 
V_T before they leave the elementary school. 
Through the good offices of Dr. Bruce Low, of 
the English Local Government Board, I was able 
to be present at the re-vaccination of some seventy 
school children from a Wiesbaden elementary school. 
The vaccinator was Dr. August Strieker, to whom 
I have been indebted for much information on the 
practical aspects of medical inspection. 

The children, on this occasion girls only, were 
assembled in a room of the Municipal Buildings. 
They were in charge of a teacher, who directed the 
necessary exposure of the arms. There was also 
in attendance a Nursing Sister, who cleansed with 
ether the arms to be vaccinated. The cleansing 
was done immediately before the operation, and, as 
the ether evaporates in a few seconds, no trace of 
antiseptic was left to disturb the effect of the lymph. 

Meanwhile, the two clerks had prepared a com- 
plete list of the children. Forms of certificate were 
at hand and partly filled in, ready for signature. 

Then the doctor appeared. He took from his case 
a conserve of calf lymph and emptied it into a small 
glass saucer. He next opened a piece of aseptic 
gauze, which contained about one hundred small lancets. 



116 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

The lancet deserves a word of description. It 
was made by a firm of steel-pen makers at Bonn. 
It consisted of a flat piece of steel, two inches long, 
about half an inch broad at one end, tapered to 
an arrow-head shape at the other. The edges of 
the arrow-head are thinned, but not sharp. The 
whole is kept rigid by a depression round the margin 
and passing right to the tip. This lancet can be used 
for superficial scratching with the edge of the arrow- 
head or for puncture with the point. All these 
lancets had been sterilised. A lancet was provided 
for each child. Each lancet after use was thrown 
into an antiseptic solution, and would be afterwards 
cleaned for future use. 

The method of vaccination was superficial blunt 
scratches on the left arm. Each scratch was about 
an inch long. The lancet was dipped into the 
lymph ; the arm was grasped firmly and the skin 
thus stretched ; four longitudinal scratches were 
made with pressure sufficient to penetrate to the 
lymphatics, and the arm then let go. A reasonable 
time was given to dry. The vaccination and check- 
ing off of the lists took rather less than an hour, and 
might have taken much less but that the vaccinator 
explained to us as he went along his whole mode of 
procedure. 

A week later I had the privilege of seeing all 
those cases again. Any induration that could be 
distinctly felt was recorded as positive. Where no 
reaction of any kind had occurred, the patient was 
instructed to reappear for re-vaccination in the follow- 
ing year. 



NOTE ON RE- VACCINATION 117 

In the great mass of cases the children showed 
good marks of primary vaccination. In many 
cases, particularly those vaccinated in the town of 
Wiesbaden, there were six good marks three on 
each arm. Four good marks were the rule. In one 
child, who had come from Switzerland, there was no 
mark. In one or two, the marks were indifferent. 
Of the seventy children, seven showed no reaction on 
re- vaccination. They were certified accordingly, and 
would come up again in the following year. 

One could not but be impressed with the pre- 
cision, simplicity, quietness of the whole proceeding. 
The children were all clean and well-nourished. 
None of them, either on their own behalf or on 
their parents' behalf, offered any objection. The most 
scrupulous care was taken to prevent infection, and 
in no single case was there a " bad arm " either 
from accidental infection or from the specific action 
of lymph. This was a decisive testimony at once 
to the thoroughness of the primary vaccination and 
to the asepticity of the re-vaccination. 

I append a translation of directions issued to the 
parents. 

If it be said that the orderliness of these and 
the other proceedings of German school children is 
due to the predominance of military discipline, 
I am not concerned to deny the fact But I have 
formed the impression that if military discipline 
predominates in the civil life of Germany, it is 
because it finds in the German character a suitable 
medium. Probably the military system is as much 
an expression of the German sense of order as a 



n8 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

creator of German orderliness. Some other nations 
are as military, but not as orderly. I am inclined, 
therefore, to think that we habitually attribute more 
influence to military discipline as such than it deserves. 

PRECAUTIONS FOR RE-VACCINATED CHILDREN 

1. No children must come for re-vaccination on 
the ordinary day from any house in which there 
are infectious diseases, such as scarlet fever, measles, 
diphtheria, croup, whooping-cough, typhus, erysipelas, 
or small-pox. 

2. At the time of vaccination, the children must 
appear with clean skin, clean linen, and clean 
clothing. 

3. After vaccination the greatest care must be 
taken that the child is kept as clean as possible. 

4. The development of the vaccination mark takes 
place in from three to four days, and as a rule is 
attended with so slight disturbance of the general con- 
dition that absence from school on that account is 
not necessary. Only when exceptional fever comes 
on is the child to remain at home. If the vaccina- 
tion marks show excessive redness and swelling, 
they are to be treated with dressings soaked in 
cold water previously boiled. The dressings must 
be frequently changed. The children may continue 
their usual bath. The physical exercise must be 
dropped from the third to the fifth day in all those 
that show vaccination vesicles. The vaccination 
marks, so long as they are not healed, must be care- 
fully protected from dirt, scratching, and bruising, as 



NOTE ON RE- VACCINATION 119 

well as from the rubbing of tight clothing and from 
external pressure. Communication with persons suf- 
fering from running sores, skin eruptions, or erysipelas, 
and all objects used by them, must be avoided. 

5. In every illness coming on after vaccination 
the doctor is to be called in ; the vaccinator is to be 
informed of every illness that occurs before re- 
inspection or within fourteen days after it. 

6. On a day to be fixed at the time of vaccination, 
the vaccinated child must appear for reinspection. 
If a child, on account of serious illness or the exist- 
ence of infectious disease in the house (Section i), 
cannot attend at the vaccination station on the day 
of inspection, the parents or their representatives 
must intimate this at latest on the vaccination day. 

7. The vaccination certificate is to be carefully 
preserved. 

NOTE ON THE PLAN OF A GERMAN 
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL 

To judge by the schools of Wiesbaden and 
Nuremberg, the favourite plan of a German 
elementary school resembles the letter E, with the 
plain side of the letter facing the south-east, the 
three wings projecting to the north-east. Some- 
times the long wings of the E are either very short 
or lopped off. In the basement are the school 
baths, the heating and ventilating plant, cleansing 
stores, and the like. 

On the ground floor are the administrative rooms, 
the school inspector's room, the director's room, the 



120 THE HEALTH OF THE SCHOOL CHILD 

teachers' rooms, and some of the class-rooms. The 
front door is in the centre of the block. When you 
pass right through the hall, you come to the main 
corridor, which runs the whole length of the building 
and continues into the wings. On this corridor, 
which is lit by the back windows of the school, are 
doors opening into the class-rooms. The central 
limb of the E contains, on the ground floor, the 
gymnasium ; on the first floor, the drawing room. 

The second and third floors contain the remainder 
of the class-rooms, cooking- rooms, and the " career," 
or solitary confinement room. 

Each flat is provided with lavatories and water- 
closets. 

Each class-room is seated for sixty pupils. In 
every case the school desks are so arranged that 
the light comes from the left side. 

The ordinary method of ventilation is a system 
of ducts fitted with steam pipes. All the ducts pass 
into a ventilation tower, which is also fitted with a 
forest of steam pipes. The whole system is regulated 
from the basement. 

What impresses one most is the roominess of the 
stairs and corridors. 

The schools accommodate from 1000 to 1500 
children. 

It is forbidden to enter a class-room while a lesson 
is in progress ; but entry is possible by order. 

Protestants and Catholics are accommodated in 
the same school, but in separate class-rooms. 



Printed by MORRISON & GIBB LIMITED, Edinburgh. 



THE 

MEDICAL INSPECTION 

OF 

SCHOOL CHILDREN 

A TEXT-BOOK FOR MEDICAL OFFICERS OF SCHOOLS 

MEDICAL OFFICERS OF HEALTH 
SCHOOL MANAGERS AND TEACHERS 



BY 

W. LESLIE MACKENZIE. M.A., M.D. 

M.R.C.P.E., D.P.H., F.R.S.E. 
MEDICAL MEMBER TO THB LOCAL GOVERNMENT BOARD FOR SCOTLAND 

ASSISTED BY 

EDWIN MATTHEW, M.A., M.B., C.M. 

F.R.C.P.E. 

ASSISTANT PHYSICIAN, LEITH HOSPITAL; CLINICAL TUTOR 
EDINBURGH ROYAL INFIRMARY 



Demy Svo, pp. xviii. 455. Price IO.T. 6J. net 



SOME PRESS OPINIONS 

The Times. " This comprehensive text book . . . Professor 
Matthew Hay and Mr. Gray contribute descriptions and illustrations 
of their anthropometrical appliances." 

The Glasgow Herald. " A text-book that leaves little to be desired, 
and fully demonstrates the philosophic grasp with which Dr. Mac- 
kenzie has tackled his subject. ... It deserves, and will doubtless 
obtain, a place among the books of reference of everyone, be he 
teacher, School Board member, medical officer, or otherwise interested 
in the education of our children, who desire the improvement of the 
race." 



SOME PRESS OPINIONS 

Saturday Review. " We agree with the authors of this admirable 
text-book in the necessity for compulsory and regularised medical 
inspection in all State schools. . . . What strikes us most in the 
book is the immense aid such school inspection as is here described 
would render to sociological inquiries and vital statistics ; and hardly 
less than this, the vast unlocked for extension of State action which 
is implied in the existence of compulsory education. In all its phases> 
whether social or political or medical, the subject is as interesting as it 
is important." 

Dundee Advertiser. "A valuable work. . . . Should be in the 
hands of everyone who is interested in the welfare of school children, 
and especially of those who are particularly concerned with their 
education." 

Education. " This important work, which deals with the subject 
in a broad and statesmanlike manner. . . . We must for the present 
content ourselves with heartily recommending it to the serious con- 
sideration of the various education authorities and their officers. It 
contains a vast amount of valuable and authoritative information." 

The Lancet. " Will be valued as one of the few standard works 
that have appeared on this subject." 

The Scottish Medical and Surgical Journal. " This book is a very 
useful and practical one, and the authors are to be congratulated on 
having produced a work which can be so cordially commended to 
those to whom it is addressed." 

The British Medical Journal. " This book can be commended to 
all who are interested in medical knowledge as a sociological factor." 

The Sanitary Record. " The time has come for a systematic medical 
inspection of school children being undertaken, and Dr. Mackenzie's 
work is intended to lay the foundations for such a system. The 
endeavour to present a complete system of the character indicated 
is breaking new ground, and Dr. Mackenzie has accomplished the 
task in a manner that leaves little to be desired." 

The County and Municipal Record. " For Dr. Mackenzie's book 
we have nothing but praise. It is extremely well written, and is full 
of mature thoughts and reflections. After reading it carefully, one 
will at once conclude that Dr. Mackenzie has cleared a way through 
a forest of difficulties. One can see daylight beyond, and the subject 
of medical inspection of school children has had a great and even 
alluring interest added to it by his excellent work." 

Internationales Archiv fur Schulhygiene. "The most important 
book of the year on subjects of school hygiene." 

From La Lutte centre la Degenerescence en Angleterre, issued by 
V Institut de Sociologie, Brussels. " La traite . . . est un livre vraiment 
neuf sur 1'hygiene scolaire . . . il contient d'id^es fort interessantes, 
originates et gen6reuse . . . nous pensons que tout m^decin-inspecteur 
y trouvera un guide precieux et une veritable mine de renseignements." 



A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS 

PUBLISHED BY METHUEN 

AND COMPANY: LONDON 

36 ESSEX STREET 

W.C. 



CONTENTS 



General Literature, . 
Ancient Cities, 
Antiquary's Books, . 
Arden Shakespeare, . . 
Beginner's Books, . 
Business Books, ... 
Byzantine Texts, . 
Churchman's Bible, . . 
Churchman's Library, . 
Classical Translations, 
Classics of Art, . 
Commercial Series, . . 
Connoisseur's Library, 
Library of Devotion, . 
Illustrated Pocket Library of 
Plain and Coloured Books, 
Junior Examination Series, 
Junior School-Books, . 
Leaders of Religion, 
Little Blue Books, 
Little Books on Art, 



PAGE 




PAGE 


3-30 


Little Galleries, . 


27 


20 


Little Guides, .... 


27 


3O 


Little Library, ... 


27 


30 


Little Quarto Shakespeare, 


29 


31 


Miniature Library, 


29 


31 


Oxford Biographies, 


29 


31 


School Examination Series, 


39 


33 


School Histories, . 


30 


22 


Textbooks of Science, . 


30 


33 


Simplified French Texts, . 


30 


23 


Standard Library, . . 


30 


33 


Textbooks of Technology, . 


3* 


23 


Handbooks of Theology, 


3* 


33 


'Westminster Commentaries, 


32 


24 






35 




"&-Vi 


26 


The Shilling Novels, . 


j~<j/ 
37 


36 


Books for Boys and Girls, 


39 


36 


Novels of Alexandre Dumas, 


39 


36 


Methuen's Sixpenny Books, 


39 



FEBRUARY 1907 



A CATALOGUE OF 

MESSRS. METHUEN'S 

PUBLICATIONS 



Colonial Editions mre published of all Messrs. METHUEN'S Novels issued 
at price above is. 6d. , and similar editions are published of some works of 
General Literature. These are marked in the Catalogue. Colonial editions 
are only for circulation in the British Colonies and India. 

I.P.L. represents Illustrated Pocket Library. 



p ART I. GENERAL LITERATURE 



Abbot (Jacob). See Little Blue Books. 

Stt (J. H. M.). Author of 'Tommy 
C^nstalkV AN OUTLANDER IN 
ENGLAND: BEING SOME IMPRESSIONSOP 
AN AUSTRALIAN ABROAD. Second Edition. 
Cr. %vo. 6s. 

A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Aratos (M. J.). See Junior School Books. 

Adams Frank). J AC<K SPRATT. With ,4 
Coloured Pictures. Super Royal i6mo. zs. 

Adeney (W. P.), M.A. See Bennett and 
Adeney. 

/Eschylus. See Classical Translations. 

Alnsworth (W. Harrison). See I.P.L. 
Aldeon(J.P.). MR.ASQUITH. With 
Portraits and Illustrations. Demy 100. 

Aldts^anet). MADAME GEOFFRIN, 

HER SALON, AND HER TIMES. 

With many Portraits and Illustrations. 

Second Edition. Demy Zvo. i<w. 6d. net. 

A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Alexander (William), D.D., Archbishop 
of Armagh. THOUGHTS AND 
COUNSELS OF MANY YEARS. 

Alkerf ^eTry"' & T H E NATIONAL 
SPORTS OF GREAT BRITAIN. With 
descriptions in English and French. With 
e i Coloured Plates. Royal Folio. Five 
Guineas net. The Plates can be had 
separately in a Portfolio. A3, 3*. net. 
See also I.P.L. 

Allen (C. C.) See Textbooks of Technology. 

Allen (Jessie). See Little Books on Art. 

Allen (J. Romilly), F.S. A. See Antiquary s 
Books. 

Almack (E.). See Little Books on Art. 

Amherst Ldy). A SKETCH OF 
EGYPTIAN HISTORY FROM THE 
EARLIEST TIMES TO THE PRE- 
SENT DAY. With many Illustrations. 

With many Illustrations. Cr. Svo. vs. 



Anderson (J. Q.), B. A., Examiner to London 
University, NOUVELLE GRAMMAIRE 
FRANCAISE. Cr. Svo. 2*. 
EXERCICES DE GRAMMAIRE FRAN- 

CAISE. Cr. 8vo. is. 6d. 
Andrewes (Bishop). PRECES PR I- 
VATAE. Edited, with Notes, by F. E. 
BRIGHTMAN, M. A., of Pusey House, Oxford. 
Cr. Zvo. 61. 

Anglo- Australian. AFTER-GLOW ME- 
MORIES. Cr. &vt>. 6s. 

A Colonial Edition is also published. 
Aristotle. THE N I COM ACHE AN 
ETHICS. Edited, with an Introduction 
and Notes, by JOHN BURNET, M.A., Pro- 
fessor of Greek at St. Andrews. Cheaper 
issue. DemySvo. IQJ. 6d. net. 
Ashton (R.). See Little Blue Books. 
Atkins (H. Q.). See Oxford Biographies. 
Atkinson (C. M.). JEREMY BENTHAM. 

Demy 8vo. 5*. net. 

Atkinson (T. D.). A SHORT HISTORY 
OF ENGLISH ARCHITECTURE. 
With over 200 Illustrations. Second Edition. 
Fcap. Svo. 3*. f>d. net. 

A GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED IN 
ENGLISH ARCHITECTURE. Illus- 
trated. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 
35. fid. net. 

Auden (T.), M.A., F.S. A. See Ancient Cities. 

Aurelius (Marcus) and Eplctetus. 

WORDS OF THE ANCIENT WISE: 

Thoughts from. Edited by W. H. D. 

ROUSE, M.A.,Litt.D. Fcap.Zvo. y.dd. 

net. See also Standard Library. 

Austen (Jane). See Little Library and 

Standard Library. 
Bacon (Francis). See Little Library and 

Standard Library. 

Baden-Powell (R. S. S.), Major General. 

THE DOWNFALL OF PREMPEH. A 

Diary of Lift in Ashanti, 1895. Illustrated. 

Third Edition. Large Cr. &va. 6s. 

A Colonial Edition is also published. 



GENERAL LITERATURE 



THE MATABELE CAMPAIGN, 1896. 
With nearly 100 Illustrations. Fourth 
Edition. Large Cr. &vo. 6s. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Bailey (J. C.), M.A. See Cowper. 

Baker (W. Q.) M.A. See Junior Examina- 
tion Series. 

Baker (Julian L.), F.I.C., F.C.S. See Books 
on Business. 

Balfour (Graham). THE LIFE OF 
ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON. Stctnd 
Edition. A Revised and Cheaper Edition. 
Crown &Vf. 6s. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Ballard (A.), B.A., LL.B. See Antiquary's 
Books. 

Bally (S. E.). See Commercial Series. 

Banks (Elizabeth L.). THE AUTO- 
BIOGRAPHY OF A 'NEWSPAPER 
GIRL.' Second Edition. Cr. Zvo. 6s. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Barbara (R. H.). See Little Library. 

Baring (The Hon. Maurice). WITH 
THE RUSSIANS IN MANCHURIA. 
Third Edition. Demy 8vo. js. 6d. net 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Baring-Gould (S.). THE LIFE OF 
NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. With over 
450 Illustrations in the Text, and 12 Photo- 
gravure Plates. Gilt top. Large quarto. 36*. 

THE TRAGEDY OF THE CAESARS. 
With numerous Illustrations from Busts, 
Gems, Cameos, etc. Sixth Edition. Royal 
8vo. I or. (>d. net. 

A BOOK OF FAIRY TALES. With 
numerous Illustrations by A. J. GASKIN. 
Third Edition. Cr. %vo. Buckram. 6s. 

OLD ENGLISH FAIRY TALES. With 
numerous Illustrations by F. D. BEDFORD. 
Third Edition. Cr. Svo. Buckram. 6s. 

THE VICAR OF MORWENSTOW. Re- 
vised Edition. With a Portrait. Third 
Edition. Cr. 8va. 35. 6d. 

A BOOK OF DARTMOOR: A Descriptive 
and Historical Sketch. With Plans and 
numerous Illustrations. Second Edition. 
Cr. Zvo. 6s. 

A BOOK OF DEVON. Illustrated. 
Second Edition. Cr. 8vo. 6s. 

A BOOK OF CORNWALL. Illustrated. 
Second Edition. Cr. 8vo. 6s. 

A BOOK OF NORTH WALES. Illus- 
trated. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

A BOOK OF SOUTH WALES. Illustrated. 

A BOOK'OF 'BRITTANY, illustrated. Cr. 

8vo. 6\r. 

A BOOK OF THE RIVIERA. Illustrated. 
Cr. &vo. 6s. 

A Colonial Edition is also published. 
A BOOK OF THE RHINE : From Cleve 
to Mainz. Illustrated. Second Edition. 
Crown &vo. 6s. 

A Colonial Edition is also published. 
*A BOOK OF THE PYRENEES. With 
34 Illustrations. Crown &vo. 6s. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 



A BOOK OF GHOSTS. With 8 Illustra. 
tions by D. MURRAY SMITH. Second Edi- 
tion. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

OLD COUNTRY LIFE. With 67 Illustra. 
tions. Fifth Edition. Large Cr. 800. 6s. 

A GARLAND OF COUNTRY SpNG: 
English Folk Songs with their Traditional 
Melodies. Collected and arranged by S. 
BARING-GOULD and H. F. SHEPPARD. 
Demy 4(0. 6s. 

SONGS OF THE WEST: Folk Songs of 
Devon and Cornwall. Collected from the 
Mouths of the People. By S. BARING-GOULD, 
M.A.,and H. FLEETWOODSHKPPARD, M.A. 
Newand Revised Edition, under the musical 
editorship of CECIL J. SHARP, Principal of 
the Hampstead Conservatoire. Large 2m- 
j>erial%vo. $s. net. 

A BOOK OF NURSERY SONGS AND 
RHYMES. Edited by S. BARING-GOULD, 
and Illustrated by the Birmigham Art 
School. A New Edition. Long Cr. &vo. 
2S. 6d. net. 

STRANGE SURVIVALS AND SUPER- 
STITIONS. Third Edition. Cr. &vo. 

YO'RKS'HIRE ODDITIES AND 

STRANGE EVENTS. New and Revised 
Edition. Cr. &vo. vs. 6d. net. 
See also Little Guides. 

Barker (Aldred F.). See Textbooks of 
Technology. 

Barker (E.), M.A. (Late) Fellow of Merton 
College, Oxford. THE POLITICAL 
THOUGHT OF PLATO AND ARIS- 
TOTLE. Demy 8ro. los. 6d. net. 

Barnes (W. E.), D.D. See Churchman's 
Bible. 

Barnett (Mrs. P. A.). See Little Library. 

Baron (R. R. N.), M.A. FRENCH PROSE 
COMPOSITION. Second Edition. Cr.&va. 
2S. 6d. Key, 3.?. net. 

See also Junior School Books. 

Barron (H. M.), M.A.. Wadham College, 
Oxford. TEXTS FOR SERMONS. With 
a Preface by Canon SCOTT HOLLAND. 
Cr. &vo. y. 6d. 

Bartholomew (J. G.), F.R.S.E. See C. G. 
Robertson. 

Bastable (C. F.), M.A. THE COM- 
MERCE OF NATIONS. Fourth Ed. 
Cr. Zvo, is. 6d. 

Bastian (H. Charlton), M.D., F.R.S. 
THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE. Illus- 
trated. Demy Zvo. ^s. 6d. net. 

Batson (Mrs. Stephen). A CONCISE 
HANDBOOK OF GARDEN FLOWERS. 
Fcap. 8vo. 35. 6d. 

Batten (LoringW.), Ph.D., S.T.D. THE 
HEBREW PROPHET. Cr.&vo. js.6d.net. 

Bayley (R. Child). THE COMPLETE 
PHOTOGRAPHER. With ovet 100 
Illustrations. Demy 8v0. IDS. 6d. net, 

Beard (W. S.). EASY EXERCISES IN 
ALGEBRA. Cr. Svo. is. 6d. See Junior 
Examination Series and Beginner's Books. 



MESSRS. METHUEN'S CATALOGUE 



Beckford (Peter). THOUGHTS ON 
HUNTING. Edited by J. OTHO PAGET, 
and Illustrated by G. H. JALLAND. Second 
Edition, Demy Zvo. 6s. 

Beckford (William). See Little Library. 

Beeching (H. C.), M.A., Canon of West- 
minster. See Library of Devotion. 

Begbie (Harold). MASTER WORKERS. 
Illustrated. Denty Zvo. js. 6d. net. 

Behtnen (Jacob). DIALOGUES ON THE 
SUPERSENSUAL LIFE. Edited by 
BERNARD HOLLAND. Fcap. 8vo. 3*. 6rf. 

Belloc (Hilaire), M.P. PARIS. Second 
Edition. With Maps and Illustrations. 
Cr. Zvo. 6s. 

HILLS AND THE SEA. Second Edition. 
Crown Zvo. 6s. 

Bellot(H.H.L.),M.A. THEINNERAND 
MIDDLE TEMPLE. With numerous 
Illustrations. Crown Zvo. 6s. net. 

Bennett (W. H.), M.A. A PRIMER OF 
THE BIBLE. Third Edition. Cr. Zvo. 
zs. 6d. 

Bennett (W. H.) and Adeney (W. F.). A 
BIBLICAL INTRODUCTION. Fourth 
Edition. Cr. Zvo. js. 6d. 

Benson (Archbishop) GOD'S BOARD : 
Communion Addresses. Fcap. Zvo. 3.1. 6d. 
net. 

Benson (A. C.), M.A. See Oxford Bio- 
graphies. 

Benson (R. M.). THE WAY OF HOLI- 
NESS : a Devotional Commentary on the 
ngth Psalm. Cr. Zvo. $s. 

Bernard (JE. R.), M. A., Canon of Salisbury. 
THE ENGLISH SUNDAY. Fcap. Zvo. 
is.6d. 

Bertouch (Baroness de). THE LIFE 
OF FATHER IGNATIUS. Illustrated. 
Demy Zvo. ids. 6d. net. 

Beruete (A. de). See Classics of Art. 

Betham- Edwards (M.). HOME LIFE 
IN FRANCE. Illustrated. Fourth and 
Cheaper Edition. Crown Zvo. 6s. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Bethune-Baker (J. P.), M.A. See Hand- 
books of Theology. 

Bidez (M.). See Byzantine Texts. 

Biggs(C. R. D.), D. D. See Churchman's Bible. 

Bindley (T. Herbert), B.D. THE OECU- 
MENICAL DOCUMENTS OF THE 
FAITH. With Introductions and Notes. 
Second Edition. Cr. Zvo. 6s. net. 

Binns (H. B.). THE LIFE OF WALT 
WHITMAN. Illustrated. Demy &vo. 
iof. 6d. net. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Binyon (Laurence). THE DEATH OF 
ADAM, AND OTHER POEMS. Cr. Zvo. 
V. 6d. net. 
See also W. Blake. 

Birnstingl (Ethel). See Little Books on 
Art. 

Blackmantle (Bernard). See I.P.L. 

Blair (Robert). See I.P.L. 

Blake (William). THE LETTERS OF 
WILLIAM BLAKE, TOGETHER WITH A 
LIKE BY FREDERICK TATHAM. Edited 



from the Original Manuscripts, with an 
Introduction and Notes, by ARCHIBALD G. 
B. RUSSELL. With 12 Illustrations. 
Demy Zvo. js. 6d. net. 

ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE BOOK OF 
JOB. With a General Introduction by 
LAWRENCE BINYON. Quarto, tis. net. 
See also I.P.L. and Little Library. 

Blaxland (B.), M.A. See Library of 
Devotion. 

Bloom (J. Harvey), M.A. SHAKE- 
SPEAR E'S G A R DE N. Illustrated. 
Fcap. Zvo. 3f. 6d. ; leather, 4.1. 6J. net. 
See also Antiquary's Books 

Blouet (Henri). See Beginner's Books. 

Boardman (T. H.), M.A. See Textbooks 
of Science. 

Bodley (J. E. C.), Author of France.' THE 
CORONATION OF EDWARD VII. 
Demy Zvo. sis. net. By Command of the 
King. 

Body (George), D.D. THE SOUL'S 
PILGRIMAGE : Devotional Readings 
from his writings. Selected by J. H. BURN, 
B.D., F.R.S.E. Pott Zvo. 2s. 6d. 

Bona (Cardinal). See Library of Devotion. 

Boon (F. C.). See Commercial Series. 

Borrow (Qeorge). See Little Library. 

Bos (J. Ritzema). AGRICULTURAL 
ZOOLOGY. Translated by J. R. AINS- 
WORTH DAVIS, M.A. With 155 Illustrations. 
Cr. Zvo. Third Edition. 31. 6d. 

Botting (C. Q.), B.A. EASY GREEK 
EXERCISES. Cr. Zvo. 2S. See also 
Junior Examination Series. 

Boulting(W.) TASSO AND HIS TIMES. 
With 24 Illustrations. Demy Zvo. los. 6d. 
net. 

Boulton(E. S.), M.A. GEOMETRY ON 
MODERN LINES. Cr. Zvo. 2s. 

Boulton (William B.). THOMAS 
GAINSBOROUGH With 40 Illustra- 
tion s. Second Ed. Demy Zvo. js. 6d. net. 

SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS, P.R.A. With 
49 Illustrations. Demy Zvo. ys. 6d. net. 

Bowden (E. M.). THE IMITATION OF 
BUDDHA : Being Quotations from 
Buddhist Literature for each Day in the 
Year. Fifth Edition. Cr. i6mo. xs.6d. 

Boy d- Carpenter (Margaret). THE 
CHILD IN ART. Illustrated. Second 
Edition. Large Crown Zvo. 6s. 

Boyle (W.). CHRISTMAS AT THE ZOO. 
With Verses by W. BOYLE and 24 Coloured 
Pictures by H. B. NEILSON. Sufer Royal 
i6mo. 2S. 

Brabant (F. Q.), M.A. See Little Guides. 

Bradley (A. Q.) ROUND ABOUT WILT- 
SHIRE. With 30 Illustrations of which 
1 4 are in colour byT.C.GoTCH. Cr. Zvo. 6s. 

Bradley (J. W.). Ste Little Books on Art. 

Braid (James) and Others. GREAT 
GOLFERS IN THE MAKING. By 
Thirty-Four Champions. Edited, with an 
Introduction, by HENRY LEACH. With 34 
Portraits. Demy Zvo. js. 6d. net. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 



GENERAL LITERATURE 



Brailsford (H. N.). MACEDONIA: 
ITS RACES AND ITS FUTURE. 
Illustrated. DemyZvo. 125. 6d. net. 

Brodrick (Mary) and Morton (Anderson). 
A CONCISE HANDBOOK OF EGYP- 
TIAN ARCHAEOLOGY. Illustrated. Cr. 
Zvo. 3*. 6d. 

Brooks (E. E.), B.Sc. See Textbooks of 
Technology. 

Brooks (E. W.). See Byzantine Texts. 

Brown (P. H.), LL.D., Fraser Professor of 
Ancient (Scottish) History at the University 
of Edinburgh. SCOTLAND IN THE 
TIME OF QUEEN MARY. Demy too. 
]s. fid. net. 

Brown (S. E.), M.A., Camb., B.A., B.Sc., 
London ; Senior Science Master at Upping- 
ham School. A PRACTICAL CHEMIS- 
TRY NOTE-BOOK FOR MATRICULA- 
TION AND ARMY CANDIDATES. 
EASIER EXPERIMENTS ON THE COMMONER 
SUBSTANCES Cr. +to. is. 6d. net. 

Browne (Sir Thomas). See Standard 
Library. 

Brownell (C. L.). THE HEART OF 
JAPAN. Illustrated. Third Edition. 
Cr. Zvo. 6s. ; also Demy %vo. fid. 

Browning (Robert). See Little Library. 

Buckland (Francis T.). CURIOSITIES 
OF NATURAL HISTORY. Illustrated 
by H. B. NEILSON. Cr. 8vo. js. fid. 

Buckton (A. M.) THE BURDEN OF 
ENGELA : a Ballad-Epic. Second Edition. 
Cr. 8vo. is. 6d. net. 

KINGS IN BABYLON. A Drama. Crown 
&vo. is. net. 

EAGER HEART : A Mystery Play. Fifth 
Edition. Cr. Svo. is. net. 

Budge (E. A. Wallis). THE GODS OF 
THE EGYPTIANS. With over 100 
Coloured Plates and many Illustrations. 
Two Volumes. Royal ?>vo. 3, 3.$. net. 

Buisson(J. C. Du), D.D. See Churchman's 
Bible. 

Buist(H. Massac). THE MOTOR YEAR 
BOOK AND AUTOMOBILISTS' 
ANNUAL FOR 1906. Demy Svo. 7*. M. 
net. 

Bull (Paul), Army Chaplain. GOD AND 
OUR SOLDIERS. Second Edition. 
Cr. Sva. 6s. 

Bnlley (Miss). See Lady Dilke. 

Bunyan (John). THE PILGRIM'S PRO- 
GRESS. Edited, with an Introduction, 
by C. H. FIRTH, M.A. With 39 Illustra- 
tions by R. ANNING BELL. Cr. Zvo. 6s. 
See also Library of Devotion and 
Standard Library. 

Burch (Q. J.), M.A., F.R.S. A MANUAL 
OF ELECTRICAL SCIENCE. Illus- 
trated. Cr. 8vo. v- 

Burgess (Oelett). GOOPS AND HOW TO 
BE THEM. Illustrated. Small 4(0. 6s. 

Burke (Edmund). See Standard Library. 

Burn (A. E.), D.D., Rector of Handsworth 
and Prebendary of Lichfield. 
See Handbooks of Theology. 



Burn (J. H.), B.D. THE CHURCH- 
MAN'S TREASURY OF SONG. 
Selected and Edited by. Fcap Svo. js. 6d. 
net. See also Library of Devotion. 

Burnand (Sir F. C.). RECORDS AND 
REMINISCENCES. With a Portrait by 
H. v. HERKOMER. Cr. Zvo. Fourth and 
Cheaper Edition. 6s. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Burns (Robert), THE POEMS OF. Edited 
by ANDREW LANG and W. A. CRAIGIE. With 
Portrait. Third Edition. Demy &vo, gilt 

Burn'side (W. F.), M.A. OLD TESTA- 
MENT HISTORY FOR USE IN 
SCHOOLS. Second Edition. Cr. &vo. 
3s. 6d. 

Burton (Alfred). See I.P.L. 

Bussell (F. W.), D.D., Fellow and Vice- 
Principal of Brasenose College, Oxford. 
CHRISTIAN THEOLOGY AND SO- 
CIAL PROGRESS : The Bampton 
Lectures for 1905. Demy %vo los. f>d. net. 

Butler (Joseph). See Standard Library. 

Caldecott (Alfred), D.D. See Handbooks 
of Theology. 

Calderwood (D. S.), Headmaster of the Nor- 
mal School, Edinburgh. TEST CARDS 
IN EUCLID AND ALGEBRA. In three 
packets of 40, with Answers, is. each. Or 
in three Books, orice id. , yd., and ^d. 

Cambridge (Ada) [Mrs. Cross]. THIRTY 
YEARS IN AUSTRALIA. Demy Svo. 
js.6d. 

Canning (George). See Little Library. 

Capey (E. F. H.). See Oxford Biographies. 

Careless (John). See I. P. L. 

Carlyle (Thomas). THE FRENCH 
REVOLUTION. Edited by C. R. L. 
FLETCHER, Fellow of Magdalen College, 
Oxford. Three Volumes. Cr. 8z>o. tSs. 

THE LIFE AND LETTERS OF OLIVER 
CROMWELL. With an Introduction 
by C. H. FIRTH, M.A., and Notes and 
Appendices by Mrs. S. C. LOMAS. Three 
Volumes. Demv Svo. iSs. net. 

Carlyle (R. M. and A. J.), M.A. See Leaders 
of Religion. 

Channer (C. C.) and Roberts (M. E.). 
LACEMAKING IN THE MIDLANDS, 
PAST AND PRESENT. With 16 full- 
page Illustrations. Cr. Zvo. 2s. 6d. 

Chapman (S. J.). See Books on Business. 

Chatterton (Thomas). See Standard 
Library. 

Chesterfield (Lord), THE LETTERS OF, 
TO HIS SON. Edited, with an Introduc- 
tion by C. STRACHEY, and Notes by A. 
CALTHRCP. Ttvo Volumes. Cr. Svo. jar. 

Chesterton(Q.K.). CHARLES DICKENS. 
With two Portraits in photogravure. Fourth 
Edition. Demy Zvo. js. f>d. net. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Chllde (Charles P.), B.A., F.R.C.S. THE 
CONTROL OF A SCOURGE : OR, 
How CAN-CER is CURABLE. Demy %vn. 
^s. f>d. net. 



MESSRS. METHUEN'S CATALOGUE 



Christian (F. W.). THE CAROLINE 
ISLANDS. With many Illustrations and 
Maps. Demy Svo. i2S. (>d. net. 

Cicero. Sac Classical Translations. 

CIarke(F. A.), M.A. See Leaders of Religion. 

Clausen (George), A.R.A., R.W.S. AIMS 
AND IDEALS IN ART : Eight Lectures 
delivered to the Students of the Royal 
Academy of Arts. With 32 Illustrations. 
Second Edition. Large Post Svo. $s. net. 

SIX LECTURES ON ART. First Series. 
With 19 Illustrations. Third Edition, 
Large Post Svo. 3$. 6d. net. 

Cleather (A. L.). See Wagner. 

Clinch (Q.). See Little Guides. 

Clough (W. T.). See Junior School Books 
and Textbooks of Science. 

CIouston(T. S.), M.D., F.R.S.E., Lecturer 
on Mental Diseases in the University of 
Edinburgh. THE HYGIENE OF 
MIND. With 10 Illustrations. Third 
Edition. Demy Svo. -is. 6d. net. 

Coast (W. Q.), B.A. EXAMINATION 
PAPERS IN VERGIL. Cr. Svo. as. 

Cobb (T.). See Little Blue Books. 

Cobb (W. F.), M.A. THE BOOK OF 
PSALMS : with a Commentary. Demy Svo. 
los. (td. net. 

Coleridge (S. T.). POEMS OF. Selected 
and Arranged by ARTHUR SVMONS. With 
a photogravure Frontispiece. Fcap. Svo. 

Collingwoo'd (W. Q.), M.A. THE LIFE 
OF JOHN RUSKIN. With Portraits. 
Sixth Edition. Cr. Svo. 2s. 6d. net. 

Collins (W. E.), M.A. See Churchman's 
Library. 

Colonna. HYPNEROTOMACHIA POLI- 
PHILI UBI HUMANA OMNIA NON 
NISI SOMNIUM ESSE DOCET 
ATQUE OBITER PLURIMA SCITU 
SANE QUAM DIGNA COMMEMO- 
RAT. An edition limited to 350 copies on 
handmade paper. Folio. *, 35. net. 

Combe (William). See I. P. L. 

Conrad (Joseph). THE MIRROR OF 
THE SEA: Memories and Impressions. 
Third Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Cook (A. M.), M.A.,andMarchant(C. E.), 
M.A. PASSAGES FOR UNSEEN 
TRANSLATION. Third Edition. Cr. 
Svo. v. 6d. 

Cooke-TayIor(R. W.). THE FACTORY 
SYSTEM. Cr. Svo. is. 6it. 

CorelH (Marie). THE PASSING OF THE 
GREAT QUEEN. Second Edition. Fcap. 

A CHRISTMAS GREETING. Cr.tfo. is. 
Corkran (Alice). See Little Books on Art. 
Cotes (Everard). TO-MORROW IN THE 

FAR EAST. With 24 Illustrations. Demy 

Svo. js. 6ff. net. 
Cotes (Rosemary). DANTE'S GARDEN. 

With a Frontispiece. Second Edition. 

Fcap. Svo. -LS. 6d.; leather. 3*. 6d. net. 
BIBLE FLOWERS. With a Frontispiece 

and Plan. Fcap. Svo. ss. 6d. net. 
Cowley (Abraham). See Little Library. 



Cowper (William), THE POEMS OF. 
Edited with an Introduction and Notes by 
J. C. BAILEY, M.A. Illustrated, including 
two unpublished designs by WILLIAM 
BLAKE. Demy Svo. tos. 6d. net. 

Cox(J. Charles), LL.D., F.S.A. See Little 
Guides, The Antiquary's Books, and Ancient 

Cox 1 '(Harold), B.A., M.P. LAND 
NATIONALISATION AND LAND 
TAXATION. Second Edition revised. 
Cr. Svo. 3.?. 6d. net. 

Crabbe (George). See Little Library. 

Craigie(W. A.). A PRIMER OF BURNS. 
Cr. &vo. 2s. 6d. 

Craik (Mrs.). See Little Library. 

Crane (Capt. C. P.). See Little Guides. 

Crashaw (Richard). See Little Library. 

Crawford (F. G.). See Mary C. Danson. 

Crofts (T. R. N.), M.A. See Simplified 
French Texts. 

Cross (J. A.), M.A. THE FAITH OF 
THE BIBLE. Fcap. Svo. 2*. 6<f. net. 

Crulkshank(G.). THE LOVING BAL- 
LAD OF LORD BATEMAN. With n 
Plates. Cr. i6t>io. is. 6d. net. 

Cunliffe (Sir F. H. E.), Fellow of All Souls' 
College, Oxford. THE HISTORY OF 
THE BOER WAR. With many Illus- 
trations, Plans, and Portraits. / 2 vols. 
Quarto. i$s. each. 

Crump (B.). See Wagner. 

Cunynghame (H . ), C. B. , See Connoisseur's 
Library. 

Cutts(E. L.), D.D. See Leaders of Religion. 

Daniell (G. W.), M.A. See Leaders of 
Religion. 

Danson (Mary C.) and Crawford (F. G.). 
FATHERS IN THE FAITH. Fcap. 
Svo. is. 6d. 

Dante. LA COMMEDIA DI DANTE. 
The Italian Text edited by PAGET TOYNBEE, 
M.A.,D.Litt. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

THE PURGATORIO OF DANTE. 
Translated into Spenserian Prose by C. 
GORDON WRIGHT. With the Italian text. 
Fcap. Svo. 2S. 6d. net. 

See also Paget Toynbee, Little Library, 
Standard Library, and Warren-Vernon. 

Darley (George). See Little Library. 

D' Arcy (R. F.), M.A. A NEW TRIGON- 
OMETRY FOR BEGINNERS. With 
numerous diagrams. Cr. Svo. 21. 6d. 

Davenport (Cyril). See Connoisseur's 
Library and Little Books on Art. 

Davey (Richard). THE PAGEANT OF 
LONDON With 40 Illustrations in 
Colour by JOHN FULLEYLOVK, R.I. InTivo 
yolumes. Demy Svo. 15.1. net. 

Davis (H. W. C.), M.A., Fellow and Tutor 
of Balliol College, Author of ' Charlemagne.' 
ENGLAND UNDER THE NORMANS 
AND ANGEVINS : 1066-1272. With 
Maps and Illustrations. DcmyZvo. ios.6J. 
net. 

Dawson (Nelson). See Connoisseur's 
Library. 



GENERAL LITERATURE 



Dawson (Mrs. N.). See Little Books on 

Art. 

Deane (A. C.). See Little Library. 
Dearmer (Mabel). A CHILD'S LIFE OF 

CHRIST. With 8 Illustrations in Colour 

by E. FORTESCUE-BRICKDALE. Large Cr. 

Bvo. 6s. 
Delbos (Leon). THE METRIC SYSTEM. 

Cr. Bvo. zs. 
Demosthenes. AGAINST CONON AND 

CALLICLES. Edited by F. DARWIN 

SWIFT, M.A. Third Edition. Fca. 

Bvo. zs. 
Dickens (Charles). See Little Library, 

I.P.L., and Chesterton. 
Dickinson (Emily). POEMS. Cr. Bvo. 

+s. (>d. net. 
Dickinson (Q. L.), M.A., Fellow of King's 

College, Cambridge. THE GREEK. 

VIEW OF LIFE. Fifth Edition. Cr. 

Bvo. 2s. 6d. 
Dlckson (H. N.). F.R.Met. Soc. 

METEOROLOGY. Illustrated. Cr. Bvo. 

zs. 6d. 
Dllke (Lady), BuIIey (Miss), and Whitley 

(Miss). WOMEN'S WORK. Cr. Bvo. 

zs. 6d. 
Dillon (Edward). See Connoisseur's Library 

and Little Books on Art. 
Ditchfield (P. H.), M.A., F.S.A. THE 

STORY OF OUR ENGLISH TOWNS. 

With an Introduction by AUGUSTUS 

JESSOPP.D.D. Second Edition. Cr.Bvo. 6s. 
OLD ENGLISH CUSTOMS: Extant at 

the Present Time. Cr. Bvo. dr. 
ENGLISH VILLAGES. Illustrated. Second 

Edition. Cr. Svo. zs. 6d. net. 
THE OLD PARISH CLERK. With 30 

Illustrations. Demy Bvo. js. 6d. net. 
Dixon (W. M.), M.A. A PRIMER OF 

TENNYSON. Second Edition. Cr.Bvo. 

zs. 6d. 
ENGLISH POETRY FROM BLAKE TO 

BROWNING. Second Edition. Cr. Bvo. 

zs. 6d. 

Doney(May). SONGS OF THE REAL. 
Cr. Bvo. jr. 6d. net. 
A volume of poems. 
Douglas (James). THE MAN IN THE 

PULPIT. Cr. Bvo. zs. 6d. net. 
Dowden (J.), D.D., Lord Bishop of Edin- 
burgh. See Churchman's Library. 
Drage (Q.). See Books on Business. 
Driver(S. R.), D.D., D.C.L., Canon ofChrist 

Church, Regius Professor of Hebrew in the 

University of Oxford. SERMONS ON 

SUBJECTS CONNECTED WITH THE 

OLD TESTAMENT. Cr. Bvo. 6s. 

See also Westminster Commentaries. 
Dry (Wakeling). See Little Guides. 
Drynnrst (A. R.). Sec Little Books on Art. 
Duguid (Charles). See Books on Business. 
Dumas (Alexander). MY MEMOIRS. 

Translated by E. M. WALLER. With Por- 
traits. In Six Volumes. Cr. Bvo. 6s. each. 

Volume I. 



Dunn (J. T)., D.Sc., and Mundella (V. A.). 

GENERAL ELEMENTARY SCIENCE. 

With 114 Illustrations. Second Edition, 

Cr. Bvo. 3^. 6d. 

Dunstan (A. E.), B.Sc. See Junior School 

Books and Textbooks of Science. 
Durham (The Earl of ). A REPORT ON 
CANADA. With an Introductory Note. 
Demy Bvo. is. 6d. net. 
Dntt(W. A.). THE NORFOLK BROADS. 
With coloured Illustrations by FRANK 
SOUTHGATE. Cr. Bvo. 6s. 
WILD LIFE IN EAST ANGLIA. With 
16 Illustrations in colour by FRANK SOUTH- 
GATE, R.B.A. Second Edition. Demy 
Svo. 7*. 6d. net. 

Se also Little Guides. 

Earle(John), Bishop of Salisbury. MICRO- 
COSMOGRAPHIE, OR A PIECE OF 
THE WORLD DISCOVERED. Post 
i6mo. as net. 

Edmonds (Major J. E.). See W. B. Wood. 

Edwards (Clement), M.P. RAILWAY 

NATIONALIZATION. Second Edition 

Revised. Crown Bvo. zs. 6d. 

Edwards (W. Douglas). See Commercial 

Series. 

Egan (Pierce). See I.P.L. 
Egerton (H. E.), M.A. A HISTORY OF 
BRITISH COLONIAL POLICY. New 
and Cheaper Issue. Demy Bvo. js. 6d. net. 

A Colonial Edition is also published. 
Ellaby (C. G.). See Little Guides. 
Ellerton (F. G.). See S. J. Stone. 
Ellwood (Thomas), THE HISTORY OF 
THE LIFE OF. Edited by C G. CRUMP, 
M.A. Cr. Bvo. dr. 
Epictetus. See Aurelius 
Erasmus. A Book called in Latin EN- 
CHIRIDION MILITIS CHRISTIANI, 
and in English the Manual of the Christian 
Knight. 

From the edition printed by Wynken de 
Worde, 1533. Fcap. Bvo. 3*. 6d. net. 
Fairbrother (W. H.), M.A. THE PHILO- 
SOPHY OF T. H. GREEN. Second 
Edition. Cr. Bvo. 31. 6d. 
Farrer (Reginald). THE GARDEN OF 

ASIA. Second Edition. Cr. Bvo. 6s. 
Fea (Allan). SOME BEAUTIES OF THE 
SEVENTEENTH CENTURY. With 
82 Illustrations. Second Edition. Demy 
Bvo. izs. 6d. net. 

FELISSA; OR, THE LIFE AND 
OPINIONS OF A KITTEN OF SENTI- 
MENT. With 12 Coloured Plates. Fast 
i6mo. is. 6d. net. 

Ferrler (Susan). See Little Library. 
Fidler (T. Claxton), M.Inst. C.E. Se 

Books on Business. 

Fielding (Henry). See Standard Library. 
Finn (S. W.), M.A. See Junior Examination 

Series. 

Firth (J. B.). See Little Guides. 
Firth (C. H.), M.A. CROMWELL'S 
ARMY: A History of the English Soldier 
during the Civil Wars, the Commonwealth, 
and the Protectorate. Cr. Bvo. dr. 



MESSRS. METHUEN'S CATALOGUE 



Fisher (G. W.), M.A. ANNALS OF 
SHREWSBURY SCHOOL. Illustrated. 
Demy Svo. IOT. dd. 

PitzQerald (Edward). THE RUBAlYAT 
OF OMAR KHAYYAM. Printed from 
the Fifth and last Edition. With a Com- 
mentary by Mrs. STEPHEN BATSON, and a 
Biography of Omar by_ E. D. Ross. Cr. 
Sto. 6s. See also Miniature Library. 

FltzQerald(H. P.). A CONCISE HAND- 
BOOK OF CLIMBERS, TWINERS, 
AND WALL SHRUBS. Illustrated. 
Fcap. Svo. 3-r. dd. net. 

Fltzpntrick (5. A. O.). See Ancient Cities. 

Flecker (W. H.), M.A..D.C.L., Headmaster 
jof the Dean Close School, Cheltenham. 
THE STUDENT'S PRAYER BOOK. 
THE TEXT OF MORNING AND EVENING 
PRAYER AND LITANY. With an Introduc- 
tion and Notes. Cr. Svo. as. dd. 

Flux (A. W.), M.A., William Dow Professor 
of Political Economy in M'Gill University, 
Montreal. ECONOMIC PRINCIPLES. 
Demy Svo. js. dd. net. 

Fortescue(Mrs. G.). See Little Books on Art. 

Fraser (David). A MODERN CAM- 
PAIGN; OR, WAR AND WIRELESS 
TELEGRAPHY IN THE FAR EAST. 
Illustrated. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Fraser (J. F.). ROUND THE WORLD 
ON A WHEEL. With 100 Illustrations. 
Fourth Edition Cr. Svo. 6s. 

French (W.), M.A. See Textbooks of 

Freud n enreich (Ed. von). DAIRY BAC- 
TERIOLOGY. A Short Manual for the 
Use of Students. Translated by J. R. 
AINSWORTH DAVIS, M.A. Second Edition. 
Revised. Cr. Svo. 2*. dd. 

Fulford (H. W.), M.A. See Churchman's 
Bible. 

(iallaher (D.)and Stead (D. W.). THE 
COMPLETE RUGBY FOOTBALLER, 
ON THE NEW ZEALAND SYSTEM. 
With an Account of the Tour of the New 
Zealanders in England. With 35 Illustra- 
tions. Second Edition. Demy Svo. los.dd. 
net. 

Gallichan (W. M.). See Little Guides. 

Gambado (Geoffrey, Esq.). See I. P. L. 

Gaskell (Mrs.). See Little Library and 
Standard Library. 

Clasquet, the Right Rev. Abbot, O.S.B. See 
Antiquary's Books. 

George (H. B.), M. A. , Fellow of New College, 
Oxford. BATTLES OF ENGLISH HIS- 
TORY. With numerous Plans. Fourth 
Edition. Rerised, with a new Chapter 
including the South African War. Cr. Svo. 
y.6d. 

A HISTORICAL GEOGRAPHY OF THE 
BRITISH EMPIRE. Second Edititn. 
Cr. Svo. ju. 6d. 

llbbina (H. de B.), Litt.D., M.A. IN- 
DUSTRY IN ENGLAND : HISTORI- 
CAL OUTLINES. With 5 Maps. Fourth 
Edition. Demy Zvo. los. dd. 



THE INDUSTRIAL HISTORY OF 
ENGLAND. Twelfth Edition. Revised. 
With Maps and Plans. Cr. Svo. 31. 

ENGLISH SOCIAL REFORMERS. 
Second Edition. Cr. Svo. vs. dd. 

See also Commercial Series and R. A. 
Hadfield. 

Gibbon (Edward). THE DECLINE AND 
FALL OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 
Edited with Notes, Appendices, and Maps, 
by J. B. BURY, M.A., Litt.D., Regius Pro- 
fessor of Greek at Cambridge. In Stven 
Volumes. Demy Svo. Gilt top,Ss.dd. each. 
Also, Cr. Svo. 6s. each. 

MEMOIRS OF MY LIFE AND WRIT- 
INGS. Edited by G. BIRKBECK HILL, 
LL.D Cr. Svo. 6s. 

See also Standard Library. 

Gibson (E. C. S.), D.D., Lord Bishop of 
Gloucester. See Westminster Commentaries, 
Handbooks of Theology, and Oxford Bio- 
graphies. 

Gilbert (A. R.). See Little Books on Art 

Gloag (M. R.) and Wyatt (Kate M.). A 
BOOK OF ENGLISH GARDENS. 
With 24 Illustrations in Colour. Demy 
Svo. ioj. dti. net. 

Godfrey (Elizabeth). A BOOK OF RE- 
MEMBRANCE. Edited by. Fcap. Svo. 
xs. dd. net. 

Godley (A. D.), M.A., Fellow of Magdalen 
College, Oxford. LYRA FRIVOLA. 
Third Edition. Fcap. Svo. ss. 6d. 

VERSES TO ORDER. Second Edition. 
Fcap. Svo. zs. dd. 

SECOND STRINGS. Fcap. Svo. 2*. fid. 

Goldsmith (Oliver). THE VICAR OF 
WAKEFIELD. Fcap. -yumo. With 10 
Plates in Photogravure by Tony Johannot, 
Leather, as. dd. net. 

See also I.P.L. and Standard Library. 

Goodrich. Freer (A.). IN A SYRIAN 
SADDLE. Demy Svo. js. 6d. tut. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Gorst(Rt. Hon. Sir John). THE CHIL- 
DREN OF THE NATION. Second 
Edition. Demy Svo. TS. dd. net. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Goudge (H. L.), M.A., Principal of Wells 
Theological College. See WestminsterCom- 
mentaries. 

Graham (P. Anderson). THE RURAL 
EXODUS. Cr. Svo. 2S. 6d. 

Granger (F. S.), M.A., LittD. PSYCH- 
OLOGY. Third Edition. Cr. Svo. is. 64. 

THESOULOF ACHRISTIAN. CV.8w.fi*. 

Gray(E.M'Queen). GERM AN PASSAGES 
FOR UNSEEN TRANSLATION. Cr. 
Svo. as. dd. 

Gray (P. L.), B.Sc. THE PRINCIPLES OF 
MAGNETISM AND ELECTRICITY: 
an Elementary Text-Book. With itt 
Diagrams. Cr. Svo. 3*. dd. 

Green (G. Buckland), M.A., late Fellow 
of Stjohn's College, Oxon. NOTES ON 
GREEK AND LATIN SYNTAX. Cr. 
Svo. 3* . dd. 



GENERAL LITERATURE 



Green (E. T.). M.A. See Churchman's 
Library. 

Gresnidge (A. H. J.), M.A. A HISTORY 
OF ROiME: From 133-104 B.C. Demy 
Zvo. ioj. 6d. net. 

Greenwell (Dora). See Miniature Library. 

Gregory (R. A.). THE VAULT OF 
HEAVEN. A Popular Introdction to 
Astronomy. Illustrated. Cr. Bvo. is. (>d. 

Gregory (Miss E. C.). See Library of 
Devotion. 

Grubb(H. C.)' See Textbooks of Technology. 

Guiney (Louisa I.). HURRELL 
FROUDE : Memoranda and Comments. 
Illustrated. Demy 8vo. iof. 6d. net, 

Gwynn(M. L.). A BIRTHDAY BOOK. 
New and cheaper issue. Royal &vo. $s. net. 

Hackett (John), B.D. A HISTORY OF 
THE ORTHODOX CHURCH OF 
CYPRUS. With Maps and Illustrations. 
Demy Bvo. 155. net. 

Haddon (A. C.), Sc.D., F.R.S. HEAD- 
HUNTERS BLACK, WHITE, AND 
BROWN. With many Illustrations and a 
Map. Demy Svo. 15^. 

Hadfield(R. A.) and Gibbins (H. de B.). 
A SHORTER WORKING DAY. Cr. 
&vo. zs. 6d. 

Hall (R. N.) and Neal (W. G.). THE 
ANCIENT RUINS OF RHODESIA. 
Illustrated. Second dition, revised. 
Demy 8vo. los. 6d. net. 

Hall (R. N.). GREAT ZIMBABWE. 
With numerous Plans and Illustrations. 
Second Edition. Royal Zvo. los. 6d. net. 

Hamilton (F. J.), D.D. See Byzantine Texts. 

Hammond (J. L.). CHARLES JAMES 
FOX. Demy %vo. los. 6d. 

Hannay (D.). A SHORT HISTORY OF 
THE ROYAL NAVY, Illustrated. Two 
Volumes. Demy &vo. js. 6d. each. Vol. I. 
1200-1688. 

Hannay (James O.), M.A. THE SPIRIT 
AND ORIGIN OF CHRISTIAN 
MONASTICISM. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

THE WISDOM OF THEDESERT. Fcap. 
&vo. 35. 6d. net. 

Hardie (Martin). See Connoisseur's Library. 

Hare (A. T.), M.A. THE CONSTRUC- 
TION OF LARGEINDUCTION COILS. 
With numerous Diagrams. Demy &va. 6s. 

Harrison (Clifford). READING AND 
READERS. Fcap. Zvo. 2s. 6d. 

Harvey (Alfred), M.B. See Ancient Cities. 

Hawthorne(Nathaniel). See Little Library. 

HEALTH, WEALTH AND WISDOM. 
Cr. &vo. is. net. 

Heath (Frank R.). See Little Guides. 

Heath (Dudley). See Connoisseur's Library. 

Hello (Ernest). STUDIES IN SAINT- 
SHIP. Translated from the French by 
V. M. CRAWFORD. Fcap %oo. 34-. 6d. 

Henderson (B. W.), Fellow of Exeter 
College, Oxford. THE LIFE AND 
PRINCIPATE OF THE EMPEROR 
NERO. Illustrated. New and clieaper 
issue. Demy 8vo. ^s. 6d. net. 

AT INTERVALS. FcapZvo. ss.6d.ttet. 



Henderson (T. F.). See Little Library and 
Oxford Biographies. 

Henley (W. E.). ENGLISH LYRICS. 
Second Edition, Cr. 8ve. ar. 6d. net. 

Henley (W.E.)andWhibley(C.) A BOOK 
OF ENGLISH PROSE. Cr. Svo. is. 6d. 
net. 

Henson (H. H.), B.D., Canon of Westminster. 
APOSTOLICCHRISTIANITY : As Illus- 
trated by the Epistles of St. Paul to the 
Corinthians. Cr. &vo. 6s. 

LIGHT AND LEAVEN : HISTORICAL AND 
SOCIAL SERMONS. Cr. 8va. 6s. 

Herbert (George). See Library of Devotion. 

Herbert of Cherbury (Lord). See Minia- 
ture Library. 

Hewins (W. A. S.), B.A. ENGLISH 
TRADE AND FINANCE IN THE 
SEVENTEENTH CENTURY. Cr. &ve. 
2s. 6d. 

Hewitt (Ethel M.) A GOLDEN DIAL. 
A Day Book of Prose and Verse. Fcap. 
&v0, 2S. 6d. net. 

Heywood (W.). PALIO AND PONTE : 
A Book of Tuscan Games. Illustrated. 
Royal 8zw. 21*. net. 

See also St. Francis of Assisi. 

HHbert (T.). See Little Blue Books. 

Hill (Clare). See Textbooks of Technology. 

Hill (Henry), B.A., Headmaster of the Boy's 
High School, Worcester, Cape Colony. A 
SOUTH AFRICAN ARITHMETIC. 
Cr. Zvo. 3J. 6d. 

Hillegas (Howard C.). WITH THE 
BOER FORCES. With 24 Illustrations. 
Second Edition. Cr. &vo. 6s. 

A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Hind(C. Lewis). DAYS IN CORNWALL. 
With 16 Illustrations in Colour by WILLIAM 
PASCOH, and 20 Photographs. Cr. &vo. 6s. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Hirst (F. W.) See Books on Business. 

Hoare (J.Douglas). ARCTIC EXPLORA- 
TION. With \8 Illustrations and Maps. 
Demy &vo, -js. 6d. net. 

Hobhouse (Emily). THE BRUNT OF 
THE WAR. With Map and Illustrations. 
Cr. &vo. 6s. 

Hobhouse (L. T.), Fellow of C.C.C., Oxford. 
THE THEORY OF KNOWLEDGE. 
Demy 8vo. ioj. 6d. net. 

Hobson(J. A.), M.A. INTERNATIONAL 
TRADE : A Study of Economic Principles. 
Cr. Zvo. ys. 6d. net. 

PROBLEMS OF POVERTY. Sixth Edition. 
Cr. Zvo. 2s. 6d. 

THE PROBLEM OF THE UNEM- 
PLOYED. Third Edition. Cr.Zvo. zs.6d. 

Hodgkin (T.), D.C.L. See Leaders of 

Hodgson(Mrs. W.) HOW TO IDENTIFY 
OLD CHINESE PORCELAIN. Second 
Edition. Post 8vt>. 6s. 

Hogg (Thomas Jefferson). SHELLEY 
AT OXFORD. With an Introduction by 
R. A. STREATFEILD. Fcap. &vo. 2s. net. 

Holden- Stone (G. de). See Books on 
Business. 



A 2 



10 



MESSRS. METHUEN'S CATALOGUE 



Holdich (Sir T. H.). K.C.I. E. THE 
INDIAN BORDERLAND: being a 
Personal Record of Twenty Years. Illus- 
trated. Demy Svo. ios. 6d. net. 

A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Holdsworth (W. S.). M.A. A HISTORY 
OF ENGLISH LAW. In Two Volumes. 
Vol. I. Demy &vo. ios. 6d. net. 

Holland (Canon Scott). See Library of 

Holt (Emll'y). THE SECRET OF POPU- 
LARITY : How to Achieve Social Success. 
Cr. Zvo. $s. (xl. net. _ 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

HoIyoake(Q. J.). THE CO-OPERATIVE 
MOVEMENT TO-DAY. Fourth Edition. 
Cr. &vo. 2s. 6d. 

Hone (Nathaniel J.). See Antiquary's Books. 

Hoppner. See Little Galleries and Little 
Books on Art. 

Horace. See Classical Translations. 

Horsburgh(E. L. S.), M.A. WATERLOO : 
A Narrative and Criticism. With Plans. 
Second Edition. Cr. %vo. $s. 
See also Oxford Biographies. 

Horth(A. C.). See Textbooks of Technology. 

Horton(R. F.),D.D. SeeLeadersofReligion. 

Hosie (Alexander). MANCHURIA. With 
Illustrations and a Map. Second Edition. 
Demy 8vo._ -js. 6d. net. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

How (F. D.). SIX GREAT SCHOOL- 
MASTERS. With Portraits and Illustra- 
tions. Second Edition. DemyQvo. -js. 6d. 

Howell (A. Q. Ferrers). FRANCISCAN 
DAYS. Translated and arranged by. Cr. 
8vo. is. 6d. net. 

Howell (Q.). TRADE UNIONISM NEW 
AND OLD. Fourth Edition. Cr. 8vo. 
2S. 6d. 

Hudson (Robert). MEMORIALS OF A 
WARWICKSHIRE PARISH. Illustrated. 
DemyZvo. ~iy.net. 

Huggins (Sir William), K.C.B., O.M., 
D.C.L., F.R.S. THE ROYAL SOCIETY ; 
OR, SCIENCE IN THE STATE AND IN THE 
SCHOOLS. With 25 Illustrations. Wide 
Royal &-UO. AS. 6d. net. 

Hughes (C. E.). THE PRAISE OF 
SHAKESPEARE. An English Antho- 
logy. With a Preface by SIDNEY LEE. 
Demy Svo. 35. 6d. net. 

Hughes (Thomas). TOM BROWN'S 
SCHOOLDAYS. With an Introduction 
and Notes by VERNON RKNDALL. Leather. 
Royal 32mo. zs. 6d. net. 

Hutchinson (Horace Q.) THE NEW 
FOREST. Illustrated in colour with 
50 Pictures by WALTER TYNDALE and 4 
by LUCY KEMP- WELCH. A Cheaper Edi- 
tion. Cr. 8vo. 6s. net. 

Hutton (A. W.), M.A. See Leaders of 
Religion and Library of Devotion. 

Hutton (Edward). THE CITIES OF 
UMBRIA. _ With many Illustrations, of 
which 20 are in Colour, by A. PISA. Second 
Edition. Cr. 8vt>, 6s. 

A Colonial Edition is also published. 



THE CITIES OF SPAIN. Second Edition. 

With many Illustrations, of which 24 are in 

Colour, by A. W. RIMINGTON. Demy 8vo. 

js. 6d. net. 

A Colonial Edition is also published. 
FLORENCE AND NORTHERN TUS- 
CANY. With Coloured Illustrations by 

WILLIAM PARKINSON. 6s. 

A Colonial Edition is also published. 
ENGLISH LOVE POEMS. Edited with 

an Introduction. Fcap. 8vo. js. 6d. net. 
Hutton (R. H.). See Leaders of Religion. 
Hutton (W. I..). M.A. THE LIFE OF 

SIR THOMAS MORE. With Portraits. 

Second Edition. Cr. 8vt>. -js. 
See also Leaders of Religion. 
Hyett (F. A.). A SHORT HISTORY OF 

FLORENCE. Demy 8vo. 7*. 6d. net. 
Ibsen (Henrik). BRAND. A Drama. 

Translated by WILLIAM WILSON. Third 

Edition. Cr. 8vo. 3*. 6d. 
Inge (W. R.), M.A., Fellow and Tutor of 

Hertford College, Oxford. CHRISTIAN 

MYSTICISM. The Bampton Lectures for 

1899. Demy "&vo. 121. 6d. net. See also 

Library of Devotion. 
Innes(A. D.), M.A. A HISTORY OF THE 

BRITISH IN INDIA. With Maps and 

Plans. Cr. 8vo. 6s. 
ENGLAND UNDER THE TUDORS. 

With Maps. Demy Zvo. ios. (>d. net. 
Jackson (C. E.), B.A. See Textbooks of 

Science. 

Jackson (S.), M.A. See Commercial Series. 
Jackson (F. Hamilton). See Little Guides. 
Jacob (P.), M.A. See Junior Examination 

James (W. H. N.), A.R.C.S., A T .E.E. See 
Textbooks of Technology. 

Jeans (J. Stephen). TRUSTS, POOLS, 
AND CORNERS. Cr. 8vo. zs. (>d. 
See also Books on Business. 

Jeffreys(D. Qwyn). DOLLY'S THEATRI- 
CALS. Described and Illustrated with 24 
Coloured Pictures. Super Royal\tno. 2s.6d. 

Jenks (E.), M.A., Reader of Law in the 
University of Oxford. ENGLISH LOCAL 
GOVERNMENT. Cr. 8vo. is. 6d. 

Jenner (Mrs. H.). See Little Books on Art. 

Jennings (Oscar), M.D., Member of the 
Bibliographical Society. EARLY WOOD- 
CUT INITIALS, containing over thirteen 
hundred Reproductions of Pictorial Letters 
of the Fifteenth and Sixteenth Centuries. 
Demy ito. sis. net. 

Jessopp (Augustus), D.D. See Leaders of 
Religion. 

Jevons (F. B.), M.A., Litt.D., Principal of 
Bishop Hatfield's Hall, Durham. RE- 
LIGION IN EVOLUTION. Cr. Svo. 
3$. 6d. net. 

See also Churchman's Library and Hand- 
books of Theology. 

Johnson (Mrs. Barham). WILLIAM BOD- 
HAM DONNE AND HIS FRIENDS. 
Illustrated. Demy "&vo. ios. 6d. net. 



GENERAL LITERATURE 



ii 



Johnston (Sir H. H.). K.C.B. BRITISH 

CENTRAL AFRICA. With nearly 200 

1 11 ust i at ions and Six Maps. Third Edition . 

Cr. 4/0. iSs. net. 

A Colonial Edition is also published. 
Jones (R. Crompton), M.A. POEMS 

OF THE INNER LIFE. Selected by. 

Thirteenth Edition. Fcap. Svo. zs. ftd. net. 
Jones (H.). See Commercial Series. 
Jones (H. F.). See Textbooks of Science. 
Jones (L. A. Atherley), K.C., M.P. THE 

MINERS' GUIDE TO THE COAL 

MINES REGULATION ACTS. Cr. too. 

zs. 6d. net. 

COMMERCE IN WAR. RoyalSvo. 2is.net. 
Jonson (Ben). See Standard Library. 
Juliana (Lady) of Norwich. REVELA- 

TIONS OF DIVINE LOVE. Edited by 

GRACE WARRACK. Cr. Svo. 3*. 6d. 
Juvenal. See Classical Translations. 
'Kappa.' LET YOUTH BUT KNOW: 

A Plea for Reason in Education. Cr. Svo. 

3^. 6d. net. 
Kaufmann (M.). SOCIALISM AND 

MODERN THOUGHT. Second Edition. 

Cr. Svo. 2s. bd, net. 
Keating (J. F.), D.D. THE AGAPE AND 

THE EUCHARIST. Cr. Svo. 3*. (>d. 
Keats (John). THE POEMS OF. Edited 

with Introduction and Notes by E. de Selin- 

court, M.A. Demy Svo. js. 6d. net. 
REALMS OF GOLD. Selections from the 

Works of. Fcap. Svo. 3^. 6d. net. 

See also Little Library and Standard 

Keble (John). THE CHRISTIAN YEAR. 
Withan Introduction and Notes by W. LOCK, 
D.D., Warden of Keble College. Illustrated 
byR. ANNING BELL. Third Edition. Fcap. 
Svo. 3$. 6d. ; padded morocco, 5*. 
See also Library of Devotion. 

Kelynack (T. N.), M.D., M.R.C.P., Hon. 
Secretary of the Society for the Study of 
Inebriety. THE DRINK PROBLEM 
IN ITS MEDICO -SOCIOLOGICAL 
ASPECT. Edited by. With 2 Diagrams. 
Demy Svo. js. 6d. net. 

Kempis (Thomas a). THE IMITATION 
OF CHRIST. With an Introduction by 
DEAN FARRAR. Illustrated by C. M. GERE. 
Third Edition. Fcap. Svo. 35. 6d.; padded 
morocco. 5$. 

Also Translated by C. BIGG, D.D. Cr. 
Svo. 3$. 6d. See also Library of Devotion 
and Standard Library. 

Kennedy (Bart.). THE GREEN 
SPHINX. Cr. Svo. 3*. 6d. net. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Kennedy (James Houghton), D.D., Assist- 
ant Lecturer in Divinity in the University of 
Dublin. ST. PAUL'S SECOND AND 
THIRD EPISTLES TO THE CORIN- 
THIANS. With Introduction, Dissertations 
and Notes. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Kimmins (C. W.) f M.A. THE CHEMIS- 
TRY OF LIFE AND HEALTH. Illns- 
trated. Cr. Svo. zs. 6d. 

Kinglake (A. W.). See Little Library. 



Kipling (Rudyard). BARRACK-ROOM 

BALLADS. Soth Thousand. Twenty- 
second Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

THE SEVEN SEAS, tend Thousand. Tenth 
Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

THE FIVE NATIONS. 41** Thousand. 
Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

A Colonial Edition is also published. 

DEPARTMENTAL DITTIES. Sixteenth 
Edition. Cr. Svff. 6s. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Knight (Albert E.). THE COMPLETE 
CRICKETER. Illustrated. Demy Svo. 
js. 6d. net. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Knight (H. J. C.), M.A. See Churchman's 
Bible. 

Knowling (R. J.), M.A., Professor of New 
Testament Exegesis at King's College, 
London. See Westminster Commentaries. 

Lamb (Charles and Mary), THE WORKS 
OF. Edited by E. V. LUCAS. Illustrated. 
In Seven Volumes. Demy Svo. js. 6d. each. 
See also Little Library and E. V. Lucas. 

Lambert (F. A. H.). See Little Guides. 

Lambros (Professor). See Byzantine Texts. 

Lane- Poole (Stanley). A HISTORY OF 
EGYPT IN THE MIDDLE AGES. Fully 
Illustrated. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Langbridge(F.),M.A. BALLADSOF THE 
BRAVE : Poems of Chivalry, Enterprise, 
Courage, and Constancy. Second Edition. 
Cr. Svo. 2s. 6d. 

Law (William). See Library of Devotion 
and Standard Library. 

Leach (Henry). THE DUKE OF DEVON- 
SHIRE. A Biography. With 12 Illustra- 
tions. Demy Svo. izs. 6d. net. 
See also James Braid. 

Le Braz (Anatole). THE LAND OF 
PARDONS. Translated by FRANCES M. 
GOSTLING. Illustrated in colour. Second 
Edition. Demy Svo. js. 6d. 

Lee (Captain L. Melville). A HISTORY 
OF POLICE IN ENGLAND. Cr. Svo. 
35. 6d. net. 

Leigh (Percival). THECOMIC ENGLISH 
GRAMMAR. Embellished with upwards 
of 50 characteristic Illustrations by JOHN 
LEECH. Post idino. 2s. 6d. net. 

Lewes (V. B.), M.A. AIR AND WATER. 
Illustrated. Cr. Svo. 2s. 6d. 

Lewis (Mrs. Qwyn). A CONCISE 
HANDBOOK OF GARDEN SHRUBS. 
Illustrated. Fcap. Svo. -$s.6d. net. 

Lisle (Fortune"ede). See Little Bookson Art. 

Littlehales (H.). See Antiquary's Books. 

Lock (Walter), D.D., Warden of Keble 
College. ST. PAUL, THE MASTER- 
BUILDER. Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 
y.6d. 

THE BIBLE AND CHRISTIAN LIFE. 
Cr. Svo. 6s. 

See also Leaders of Religion and Library 
of Devotion. 

Locker (F.). See Little Library. 



12 



MESSRS. METHUEN'S CATALOGUE 



Lodge (Sir Oliver), F.R.S. THE SUB- 
STANCE OF FAITH ALLIED WITH 
SCIENCE: A CatecWsm for Parents 
and Teachers. Cr. Svo. as. net. 

Lofthouse (W. F.), M.A. ETHICS AND 
ATONEMENT. With a Frontispiece. 
Demy Svo. $s. net. 

Longfellow (H. W.). See Little Library. 

Lorimer (George Horace). LETTERS 
FROM A SELF-MADE MERCHANT 
TO HIS SON. Fifteenth Edition. Cr.Svo. 
3S. 6d. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

OLD GORGON GRAHAM. Second Edition. 
Cr. Svo. 6s. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Lover (Samuel). See I. P. L. 

E. V. L. and C. L. Q. ENGLAND DAY BY 
DAY : Or, The Englishman's Handbook to 
Efficiency. Illustrated by GEORGE MORROW. 
Fourth Edition. Fcap. 4(0. is. net. 

Lucas (E. V.). THE LIFE OF CHARLES 
LAMB. With 25 Illustrations. Third 
Edition. Demy Svo. js. 6d. net. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

A WANDERER IN HOLLAND. With 
many Illustrations, of which 20 are in Colour 
by HERBERT MARSHALL. Seventh Edition. 
Cr. Svo. 6s. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

A WANDERER IN LONDON. With 16 
Illustrations in Colour by NELSON DAWSON, 
and 36 other Illustrations. Fourth Edition. 
Cr. Svo. 6s. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

FIRESIDE AND SUNSHINE. Third 
Edition. Fcap. Svo. $s. 

THE OPEN ROAD : a Little Book for Way- 
farers. Tenth Edition. Fcap. Svo. 51. ; 
India. Paper, -js. 6d. 

THE FRIENDLY TOWN : a Little Book 
for the Urbane. Third Edition. Fcap. 
Svo. 5.?. ; India Paper, js. 6d. 

Lucian. See Classical Translations. 

Lyde ( L. W. ), M. A. See Com mercial Series. 

Lydon(NoeI S.). See Junior School Books . 

LytteIton(Hon. Mrs. A.). WOMEN AND 
THEIR WORK. Cr. Svo. is. 6d. 

Macaulay (Lord). CRITICAL AND HIS- 
TORICAL ESSAYS. Edited by F.C. MON- 
TAGUE, M.A. Three Volumes. Cr. Svo. *Ss. 
The only edition of this book completely 
annotated. 

M'Allen(J. E. B.), M.A. See Commercial 
Series. 

MacCulloch (J. A.). See Churchman's 
Library. 

x MacCunn (Florence A.). MARY 
STUART. With over 60 Illustrations., in- 
cluding a Frontispiece in Photogravure. 
Second and Cheaper Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
See also Leaders of Religion. 

McDermott(E. R.). See Books on Business. 

M'Dowall(A. S.). See Oxford Biographies. 

Mackay (A. M.). See Churchman's Library. 

Macklin (Herbert W.), M.A. See Anti- 
quary's Books. 



Mackenzie (W. Leslie), M.A., M.D., 
D.P.H., etc. THE HEALTH OF THE 
SCHOOL CHILD. Cr. Svo. as. 6d. 

Mdlle Mori (Author of). ST. CATHER- 
INE OF SIENA AND HER TIMES. 
With 28 Illustrations. Demy&vo. js.6d.net. 

Magnus (Laurie), M.A. A PRIMER OF 
WORDSWORTH. Cr. Svo. as. 6d. 

Mahaffy (J. P.), Litt.B. A HISTORY OF 
THE EGYPT OF THE PTOLEMIES. 
Fully Illustrated. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

MaitIand(P.W.), LL.D., Downing Professor 
of the Laws of England in the University of 
Cambridge. CANON LAW IN ENG- 
LAND. Royal&vo. -is. 6d. 

Maiden (H. E.), M.A. ENGLISH RE- 
CORDS. A Companion to the History of 
England. Cr. Svo. 3*. 6d. 

THE ENGLISH CITIZEN : HIS RIGHTS 
AND DUTIES. Sixth Edition. Cr. Svo. 
rs.6d. 
See also School Histories. 

Marchant (E. C.), M.A., Fellow of Peter- 
house, Cambridge. A GREEK ANTHO- 
LOGY Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 35. 6d. 
See also A. M. Cook. 

Marr(J. E.), F.R.S., Fellow of St John's Col- 
lege, Cambridge. THE SCIENTIFIC 
STUDY OF SCENERY. Second Edition. 
Illustrated. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

AGRICULTURAL GEOLOGY. Illustrated. 

Marriott (J. A. R.). FALKLAND AND 

HIS TIMES. With 20 Illustrations. 

Demy Svo. js. 6d. net. 

A Colonial Edition is also published. 
Marvell (Andrew). See Little Library. 
Masefield (John). SEA LIFE IN NEL- 
SON'S TIME. Illustrated. Cr. Svo. 

33. 6d. net. 
ON THE SPANISH MAIN. With 22 

Illustrations and a Map. Demy Svo. 

los. 6d. net. 

A Colonial Edition is also published. 
A SAILOR'S GARLAND. Edited and 

Selected by. Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 

3*. 6d. net. 

Maskell (A.). See Connoisseur's Library. 
Mason (A. J.), D.D. See Leadersof Religion. 
Massee (George). THE EVOLUTION OF 

PLANT LIFE : Lower Forms. Illustrated. 

Cr. Svo. 2S. 6d. 
Masterman (C. F. G.), M.A., M.P. 

TENNYSON AS A RELIGIOUS 

TEACHER. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Matheson (Mrs. E. F.). COUNSELS OF 

LIFE. Fcap. Svo. 2s.6d.net. 
May (Phil). THE PHIL MAY ALBUM. 

Second Edition. +to. is. net. 
Mellows (Emma S.). A SHORT STORY 

OF ENGLISH LITERATURE. Cr. 

Svo. 3s. 6d. 
Methuen (A. M. S.). THE TRAGEDY 

OF SOUTH AFRICA. Cr. Svo. as. net. 

Also Cr. Svo. jd. net. 
A revised and enlarged edition of the 
author's ' Peace or War in South 
.Africa. 1 



GENERAL LITERATURE 



ENGLAND'S RUIN: DISCUSSED IN Six- 
TEEN LETTERS TO THE RIGHT HON. 
JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN, M.P. Seventh Edi- 
tion, Cr, Sva. -$d. net. 

Miles (Eustace), M.A. LIFE AFTER 
LIFE, OK, THE THEORY OF REIN- 
CARNATION. Cr. Svo. ss. (xi. net. 

Mlllais (J. G.). THE LIFE AND LET- 
TERS OF SIR JOHN EVERETT 
MILLAIS, Presidentof the Royal Academy. 
With many Illustrations, of which 2 are in 
Photogravure. New Edition. Demy Svo. 
js. fid. net. 

A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Millin (Q. F.). PICTORIAL GARDEN- 
ING. Illustrated. Cr. Svo. 3*. 6d. net. 

Millis (C. T.), M.I.M.E. See Textbooks of 
Technology. 

Milne (J. G.), M.A. A HISTORY OF 
ROMAN EGYPT. Fully Illustrated. 
Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Milton (John). A DAY BOOK OF. 
Edited by R. F. Towndrow. ^cap. Svo. 
31. 6d. net. 
See also Little Library, Standard Library. 

Minchin(H. C.),M.A. See R. Peel. 

MltchelKP. Chalmers), M.A. OUTLINES 
OF BIOLOGY. Illustrated. Second Edi- 
tion, Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Mitton (G. E.). JANE AUSTEN AND 
HER TIMES. With many Portraits and 
Illustrations. Second and Cheaper Edition. 
Cr. Svo. 6s. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Mof fat (Mary M. ). QUEEN LOUISA OF 
PRUSSIA. With 20 Illustrations. Third 
Edition. Demy Svo. js. fsd. 

' Moil (A.).* See Books on Business. 

Moir(D. M.X See Little Library. 

Molinos (Dr. Michael de). See Library of 
Devotion. 

Money (L. G. Chtozza), M.P. RICHES 
AND POVERTY. Third Edition. Demy 
Svo. S.T. net. 

Montagu (Henry), Earl of Manchester. See 
Library of Devotion. 

Montaigne. A DAY BOOK OF. Edited 
by C. F. POND. Fcap. Sva. 3*. 6d. net. 

Moore (H. E.). BACK TO THE LAND. 
An Inquiry into Rural Depopulation. Cr. 
Sva. zs. 6d. 

Montmorency (J. E. G. de), B.A.. LL.B. 
THOMAS A KEMPIS, HIS AGE AND 
BOOK. With 22 Illustrations. Second 
Edition. Demy Svo. js. 6d. net. 

Moorhouse (E. Hallam). NELSON'S 
LADY HAMILTON. With 51 Portraits. 
Second Edition. Demy Svo. -js. 6d. net. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Moran (Clarence G.). See Books on Business. 

More (Sir Thomas). See Standard Library. 

Morfill (W. R.), Oriel College, Oxford. A 
HISTORY OF RUSSIA FROM PETER 
THE GREAT TO ALEXANDER II. 
With Maps and Plans. Cr. Sva. -jj. 6d. 

Morich (R. J.), late of Clifton College. See 
School Examination Series. 



Morris (J.). THE MAKERS OF JAPAN. 
With 24 Illustrations. Demy Svo. izr. 6d. 
net. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Morris (J. E.). See Little Guides. 

Morton (Miss Anderson). See Miss Brod- 
rick. 

Moule(H. C. G.), D.D.. Lord Bishop of Dur- 
ham. See Leaders of Religion. 

Mnir (M. M. Pattison), M.A. THE 
CHEMISTRY OF FIRE. Illustrated. 
Cr. Svo. 2s. (sd. 

Mundella (V. A.), M.A. See J. T. Dunn. 

Munro (R.), LL.D. See Antiquary's Books. 

Naval Officer (A). See I. P. L. 

Neal (W. G.). See R. N. Hall. 

Newman (Ernest). HUGO WOLF. 
Demy Svo. 6s. 

Newman(George),M.D.,D.P.H.,F.R.S.E., 
Lecturer on Public Health at St. Bartholo- 
mew's Hospital, and Medical Officer of 
Health of the Metropolitan Borough of 
Finsbury. INFANT MORTALITY, A 
SOCIAL PROBLEM. With 16 Diagrams. 
Demy Svo. js. 6d. net. 

Newman (J. H.) and others. See Library 
of Devotion. 

Nichols (J. B. B.). See Little Library. 

Nickiin (T.), M.A. EXAMINATION 
PAPERS I NTHUCYDIDES. Cr. Svo. vs. 

Nimrod. See I. P. L. 

Norgate (Grys Le G.). THE LIFE OF 
SIR WALTER SCOTT. Illustrated. 
Demy Svo. -js. 6d. net. 

Norregaard B. W.). THE GREAT 
SIEGE : The Investment and Fall of Port 
Arthur. Illustrated. Demy Svo. ios.6d.net. 

Norway (A. H.). NAPLES. Wiih 25 Col- 
oured Illustrations by MAURICE GRKIFFEN- 
HAGEN. Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Novalis. THE DISCIPLES AT SAIS AND 
OTHER FRAGMENTS. Edited by Miss 
UNA BIRCH. Fcap. Svo. 3*. 6d. 

Oldfield (W. J.), M.A., Prebendary of 
Lincoln. A PRIMER OF RELIGION. 
BASED ON THB C ATKCHISM OK THK CHURCH 
OF ENGLAND. Fcap. Svo. is. 6d. 

Oldharn (F. M.), B.A. See Textbooks of 
Science. 

Olipbant (Mrs. ). See Leaders of Religion. 

Oman(C. W.C.), M.A., Fellow of All Souls', 
Oxford. A HISTORY OF THE ART OF 
WAR. Vol. ii.: The Middle Ages, from 
the Fourth to the Fourteenth Century. Illus- 
trated. Demy Svo. los. 6d. net. 

Ottley(R. L.), D.D. See Handbooks of 
Theology and Leaders of Religion. 

Overton (J. H.). See Leaders of Religion. 

Owen (Douglas). See Books on Business. 

Oxford (M. N. ), of Guy's Hospital. A HAND- 
BOOK OF NURSING. Third Edition. 
Cr. Svo. 3*. 6d. 

Pakes (W. C. C.). THE SCIENCE OF 
HYGIENE. Illustrated. Demy Svo. 15*. 

Palmer (Frederick). WITH KUROKI IN 
MANCHURIA. Illustrated. Third 
Edition. Demy Svo. js. 6d. net. 



MESSRS. METHUEN'S CATALOGUE 



Parker (Gilbert). A LOVER'S DIARY. 
Fcap. Bvo. ss. 

Parkes (A. K.). SMALL LESSONS ON 
GREAT TRUTHS. Fcap. Bvo. is. 6d. 

Parkinson (John). PARADISI IN SOLE 
PARADISUS TERRESTRIS, OR A 
GARDEN OF ALL SORTS OF PLEA- 
SANT FLOWERS. Folio. 3, 35. net. 

Parmenter (John). HELIO-TROP'ES, OR 
NEW POSIES FOR SUNDIALS, 1625. 
Edited by PERCIVAL LANDON. Quarto, 
y. 6d. net. 

Parmentier (Prof. Leon). See Byzantine 
Texts. 

Parsons (Mrs. Clement). GARRICK 
AND HIS CIRCLE. With 36 Illustra- 
trations. Second Edition, Demy Bvo. 
i2s. (td. net. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Pascal. See Library of Devotion. 

Paston (George). SOCIAL CARICA- 
TURE IN THE EIGHTEENTH 
CENTURY. With over 200 Illustrations. 
Imperial Quarto. 2, i2s. 6d. net. 
Seealso Little Bookson Art and I.P.L. 

LADY MARY WORTLEY MONTAGU. 
With 24 Portraits and Illustrations. 
Demy Zvo. 15^. net. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Paterson(W. R.)(Benjamin Swift). LIFE'S 
QUESTIONINGS. Cr. Bvo. is.6d.net. 

Patterson (A. H.). NOTES OF AN EAST 
COAST NATURALIST. Illustrated in 
Colour by F. SOUTHGATE. Second Edition. 

NATURE LN EASTERN NORFOLK. 
A series of observations on the Birds, 
Fishes, Mammals, Reptiles, and Stalk- 
eyed Crustaceans found in that neigh- 
bourhood, with a list of the species. With 
12 Illustrations in colour, by FRANK 
SOUTHGATE. Second Edition. Cr. Bvo. 6s. 

Peacock (N.). See. Little Books on Art. 

Peake (C. M. A.), F.R.H.S. A HAND- 
BOOK OF ANNUALS AND BIEN- 
NIALS. With 24 Illustrations. Fcap. Bvo. 
J.T. 6d. net. 

Pearce (E. H.), M.A. ANNALS OF 
CHRIST'S HOSPITAL. Illustrated. 
Demy Bvo. js. 6d. 

Peel (Robert), and Minchin (H. C.), M.A. 
OXFORD. With 100 Illustrations in 
Colour. Cr. Bvo. 6s. 

Peel (Sidney), late Fellow f Trinity College, 
Oxford, and Secretary to the Royal Com- 
mission on the Licensing Laws. PRACTI- 
CAL LICENSING REFORM. Second 
Edition. Cr. Bvo. is. 6d. 

Peters (J. P.), D.D. See Churchman's 
Library. 

Petrie ( W.M. Flinders), D. C. L. , LL. D. , Pro- 
fessor of Egyptology at University College. 
A HISTORY OF EGYPT, FROM THE 
EARLIEST TIMES TO THE PRESENT DAY. 
Fully Illustrated. In six volumes. Cr. 
> Bvo. 6s. each. 

VOL. -I. PREHISTORIC TIMES TO XVlTH 
DYNASTY. Fifth Edition. 



VOL. H. THE XVIlTH AND XVI HTH 
DYNASTIES. Fourth Edition. 

VOL. in. XIXTH TO XXXTH DYNASTIES. 

VOL. iv. THE EGYPT OF THE PTOLEMIES. 
J. P. MAHAFFY, Litt.D. 

VOL. v. ROMAN EGYPT. J. G. MILNE, M.A. 

VOL. vi. EGYPT IN THE MIDDLE AGES. 
STANLEY LANF.-POOLE, M.A. 

RELIGION AND CONSCIENCE IN 
ANCIENT EGYPT. Illustrated. Cr. 
Bvo. 2s. 6d. 

SYRIA AND EGYPT, FROM THE TELL 
EL AM ARN A TABLETS. Cr.Bvo. 2*. 6d. 

EGYPTIAN TALES. Illustrated by TRIS- 
TRAM ELLIS. In Two Volumes. Cr. Bvo. 
is. 6d. each. 

EGYPTIAN DECORATIVE ART. With 
120 Illustrations. Cr. 8vo. 3.1. 6d. 

Phillips (W. A.). See Oxford Biographies. 

Phlllpotts (Eden). MY DEVON YEAR. 
With 38 Illustrations by J. LEY PETHY- 
BRIDGE. Second and Cheaper Edition. 
Large Cr. Bvo. 6s. 

UP ALONG AND DOWN ALONG. 
Illustrated by CLAUDE SHKPPERSON. 
Cr. 4/0. $s. net. 
A volume of poems. 

Plarr (Victor G.). See School Histories. 

Plato. See Standard Library. 

Plautus. THE CAPTIVI. Edited, with 
an Introduction, Textual Notes, and a Com- 
mentary, by W. M. LINDSAY, Fellow of 
Jesus College,Oxford. Demy Bvo. ios.6ti.net. 

Plowden-Wardlaw (J. T.), B.A., King's 
College, Cambridge. See School Examina- 
tion Series. 

Podmore (Frank). MODERN SPIRI- 
TUALISM. Two Volumes. Demy Bvo. 
215. net. 
A History and a Criticism. 

Poer (J. Patrick Le). A MODERN 
LEGIONARY. Cr. Bvo. 6s. 

Pollard (Alice). See Little Books on Art. 

Pollard(A. W.). OLD PICTURE BOOKS. 
Illustrated. Demy Bvo. js. 6d. net. 

Pollard(EUzaF.). See Little Books on Art. 

Pollock (David), M.I.N.A. See Books on 
Business. 

Potter (M. C.), M.A., F.L.S. A TEXT- 
BOOK OF AGRICULTURAL BOTANY. 
Illustrated. Second Edition. Cr. Bvo. 
45. 6d. 

Power (J. O'Connor). THE MAKING 
OF AN ORATOR. Cr. Bvo. 6s. 

Prance (G.). See R. Wyon. 

Prescott(0. L.). ABOUT MUSIC, AND 
WHAT IT IS MADE OF. Cr. Bvo. 
3*. 6d. net. 

Price (L. L.), M.A., Fellow of Oriel College, 
Oxon. A HISTORY OF ENGLISH 
POLITICAL ECONOMY. Fourth Edi- 
Hon. Cr. &vo. 2s. 6d. 

Primrose (Deborah). A MODERN 
BCEOTIA. Cr. Bvo. 6s. 

Protheroe (Ernest). THE DOMINION 
OF MAN. GEOGRAPHY IN ITS HUMAN 
ASPECT. With 32 full-page Illustrations. 
Cr. Bvo. 2s. 



GENERAL LITERATURE 



Pugin and Rowlandson. THE MICRO- 
COSM OF LONDON, OR LONDON IN 
MINIATURE. With 104 Illustrations in 
colour. In Three Volumes. Small $to. 
.3. 3-r. net, 

Q' (A. T. Quiller Couch). THE 
GOLDEN POMP. A PROCESSION OF 
ENGLISH LYRICS. Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 
is. (>d. net. 

Quevedo Villegas. See Miniature Library. 

Q.R. and E.S. THE WOODHOUSE COR- 
RESPONDENCE. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Rackham (R. B.), M.A. See Westminster 
Commentaries. 

Ragg (Laura M.)- THE WOMEN-ART- 
ISTS OF BOLOGNA. With 20 Illus- 
trations. Deiy Svo. vs. 6d. net. 

Ragg (Lonsdale). B.D., Oxon. DANTE 
AND HIS ITALY. With 32 Illustra- 
tions largely from contemporary Frescoes 
and Documents. Demy Svo. izs. 6d. net. 

RahtZ (F. J.), M.A., B.Sc., Lecturer in 
English at Merchant Venturers' Technical 
College, Bristol. HIGHER ENGLISH. 
Cr. Svo. 35. 6d. 

Randolph (B. W.)i D.D. See Library of 
Devotion. 

Rannie (D. W.), M.A. A STUDENT'S 
HISTORY OF SCOTLAND. Cr. too. 
3J. fid. 

Rashdall (Hastings), M.A., Fellow and 
Tutor of New College, Oxford. DOC- 
TRINE AND DEVELOPMENT. Cr. 
Svo. 6s. 

Raven (J. J.), D.D. See Antiquary's Books. 

Rawstorne (Lawrence, Esq.). See I. P. L. 

Raymond (Walter). See School Histories. 

A Real Paddy. See I . P. L. 

Reason (W.), M.A. UNIVERSITY AND 
SOCIAL SETTLEMENTS. Cr. Svo. 
2S. 6d. 

Redpath (H. A.), M.A. See Westminster 
Commentaries. 

Reynolds. See Little Galleries. 

Rhoades (J. P.). See Simplified French 
Texts. 

Rhodes (W. E.). See School Histories. 

Rieu (H.), M.A. See Simplified French 
Texts. 

Roberts (M. E.). See C. C. Channer. 

Robertson (A.), D.D., Lord Bishop of 
Exeter. REGNUM DEI. The Bampton 
Lectures of 1901. Demy Svo. js. (>d. net. 

Robertson (C. Grant). M.A., Fellow of AH 
Souls' College, Oxford, Examiner in the 
Honours School of Modern History, Oxford, 
1001-1904. SELECT STATUTES, CASES, 
AND CONSTITUTIONAL DOCU- 
MENTS, 1660-1832. Demy Svo. los. 6d. 
net. 

Robertson (C. Grant) and Bartholomew 
(J. G.), F.R.S.E., F.R.G.S. A HIS- 
TORICAL AND MODERN ATLAS OF 
THE BRITISH EMPIRE. DemyQuarto. 
41. (xi. net. 



Robertson(SirG.S.),K.CS.I. CHITRAL: 

THE STORY OF A MINOR SIEGE. Third 
Edition. Illustrated. Cr. Svo. 2S. 6d. net. 

Robinson (A. W.)i M.A. See Churchman's 
Bible. 

Robinson (Cecilia). THE MINISTRY 
OF DEACONESSES. With an Introduc- 
tion by the late Archbishop of Canterbury. 
Cr. Svo. is. 6d. 

Robinson (F. S.). See Connoisseur's Library. 

Rochefoucauld (La). See Little Library. 

Rodwell (G.), B.A. NEW TESTAMENT 
GREEK. A Course for Beginners. With 
a Preface by WALTER LOCK, D.D., Warden 
of Keble College. Fcap. Svo. 3*. 6d. 

Roe (Fred). OLD OAK FURNITURE. With 
many Illustrations by the Author, including 
a frontispiece in colour. Demy Svo. ios.6d. 
net. 

Rogers (A. G. L.), M.A. See Books on 
Business. 

Rose (Edward). THE ROSE READER. 
Illustrated. Cr. Svo. 2s. 6d. Also in 4 
Parts. Parts /. and II. 6d. each ; Part 
III. Sd. ; Part IV. lod. 

Rowntree (Joshua). THE IMPERIAL 
DRUG TRADE. A RE-STATEMENT OF 
THE OPIUM QUESTION. Second and 
Cheaper Edition. Cr. Svo. 2S. net. 

Rubie (A. E.), D.D. See Junior School 
Books. 

Russell (W. Clark). THE LIFE OF 
ADMIRAL LORD COLLINGWOOD. 
With Illustrations by F. BRANGWYN. 
Fourth Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Sainsbury (Harrington), M.D., F.R.C.P. 
PRINCIPIA THERAPEUTICA. 
Demy Sva. 7j. fxt. net. 

St. Anslem. See Library of Devotion. 

St. Augustine. See Library of Devotion. 

St. Cyres (Viscount). See Oxford Bio- 
graphies. 

St. Francis of Assisi. THE LITTLE 
FLOWERS OF THE GLORIOUS 
MESSER ST. FRANCIS AND HIS 
FRIARS. Newly translated by WILLIAM 
HKYWOOD. With an Introduction by A. 
G. F. HOWELL, and 40 Illustrations, from 
Italian Painters. Demy Svo. 55. net. 
See also Standard Library and Library of 
Devotion. 

'SakP (H. Munro). REGINALD. Second 
Edition. Fcap. Svo. 2s. 6d. net. 

Sales (St. Francis de). See Library of 
Devotion. 

Salmon (A. L.). See Little Guides. 

Sargeaunt (J.), M.A. ANNALS OF 
WESTMINSTER SCHOOL. Illustrated. 
Demy Svo. ys. 6d. 

Sathas (C.). See Byzantine Texts. 

Schmitt (John). See Byzantine Texts. 

Scott (A. M.). WINSTON SPENCER 
CHURCH I LL. With Portraits and 1 llus- 
trations. Cr. Svo. 35. 6d. 

Scudamore (Cyril). See Little Guides. 

Sells (V. P.), M.A. THE MECHANICS 
OF DAILY LIFE Illustrated. Cr. Sro. 



i6 



MESSRS. METHUEN'S CATALOGUE 



Selous (Edmund). TOMMY SMITH'S 

ANIMALS. Illustrated by G. W. ORD. 

Seventh Edition, Fcaf. Zvo. as. 6d. 

School Edition, is. (id. 
TOMMY SMITH'S OTHER ANIMALS. 

With 12 Illustrations by AUGUSTA GUEST. 

Second Edition. Feat. Zvo. as.6d. 
Settle (J. H.). ANECDOTES OF 

SOLDIERS. Cr. Zvo. 3 s. 6d. net. 
Shakespeare (William). 
THE FOUR FOLIOS, 1623; 1632; 1664; 

1685. Each 4, 45. net, or a complete set, 

12, izs. net. 

Folios 3 and 4 are ready. 

Folio 2 is nearly ready. 

See also Arden and Little Quarto 

Shakespeare. 
Sharp (AT). VICTORIAN POETS. Cr. 

Svo. as. 6d. 

Sharp (Cecil). See S. Baring-Gould. 
Sharp (Mr*. E. A.). See Little Books on 

Art. 
Shedlock (J. S.) THE PIANOFORTE 

SONATA. Cr. Zvo. M. 
Shelley (Percy B.). ADONAIS ; an Elegy 

on the death of John Keats, Author of 

' Endymion,' etc. Pisa. From the types of 

Didot, 1821. as. net. 

Sheppard (H. P.), M.A. See S. Baring- 
Gould. 
Sherwell (Arthur), M.A. LIFE IN WEST 

LONDON. Third Edition. Cr. Zvo. 

as. f>d. 
Shipley (Mary E.). AN ENGLISH 

CHURCH HISTORY FOR CHILD- 

REN. With a Preface by the Bishop of 

Gibraltar. With Maps and Illustrations. 

Part I. Cr. Zvo. as. 6d. net. 
Slchel (Walter). DISRAELI : A Study 

in Personality and Ideas. With 3 Portraits. 

Demy Zvo. us. 6d. net. 

See also Oxford Biographies. 
Sirne (J.). See Little Books on Art. 
Simonson (Q. A.). FRANCESCO 

G U A R D I. With 41 Plates. Imperial 

4/a. 2, as. net. 
Sketchley (R. E. D.). See Little Books on 

Art. 
Skipton (H. P. K.). See Little Books on 

Art. 
Sladen (Douglas). SICILY: The New 

Winter Resort. With over 200 Illustrations. 

Second Edition. Cr. Zvo. $s. net. 
Small (Evan), M.A. THE EARTH. An 

Introduction to Physiography. Illustrated. 

Cr. Zvo. as. 6d. 
Smallwood (M. Q.). See Little Books on 

Art. 

Smedley(P. E.). See I. P. L. 
Smith (Adam). THE WEALTH OF 

NATIONS. Edited with an Introduction 

and numerous Notes by EDWIN CANNAN, 

M.A Two volumes. Demy Zvo. ais. 

net. 

See also Standard Library. 
Smith (Horace and James). See Little 

Library. 



Smith (H. Bompas), M.A. ANEW 

JUNIOR ARITHMETIC Crown Zvo. 

as. With Answers, -zs. 6d. 
Smith (Royde N. Q.). THE PILLOW 

BOOK : A GARNER or MANY MOODS. 

Second Edition. Cr. Zvo. +s. 6d. net. 
Smith (R. Mudle). THOUGHTS FOR 

THE DAY. Edited by. Fcap. Zvo. 

3-r. 6d. net. 

Smith (Nowell C.). See W. Wordsworth. 
Smith (John Thomas). A BOOK FOR 

A RAINY DAY: Or, Recollections of the 

Events ofthe Years 1766-1833. Edited by 

WILFRED WHITTEN. Illustrated. Wide 

Demy Zvo. las. 6d. net. 
Snell (P. J.). A BOOK OF EXMOOR. 

Illustrated. Cr. Zvo. 6s. 
Snowden(C. E.). A HANDY DIGEST OF 

BRITISH HISTORY. Demy Zvo. v M. 
Sophocles. See Classical Translations. 
Sornet (L. A.). See Junior School Books. 
South (Wilton E.), M.A. See Junior School 

Books. 
Southey (R.). ENGLISH SEAMEN. 

Edited by DAVID HANNAY. 
Vol. I. (Howard, Clifford, Hawkins, 

Drake, Cavendish). Second Edition. Cr. 

Zvo. 6s. 
Vol. n. (Richard Hawkins, Grenville, 

Essex, and Raleigh). Cr. Zvo. 6s. 

See also Standard Library. 
Spence (C. H.), M.A. See School Examina- 
tion Series. 
Splcer (A. D.). THE PAPER TRADE. 

With Maps and Diagrams. Demy Zvo. 

las. 6d. ntt. 
Spooner (W. A.), M.A. Se Leaders of 

Staley g (Edecumbe). THE GUILDS OF 
FLORENCE Illustrated. Second Edition. 
Royal Zr<o. i6>. net. 

Stanbrldge (J. W.), B.D. See Library of 
Devotion. 

'Stancliffe.' GOLF DO'S AND DONT'S. 
Second Edition. Fcap. Zvo. is. 

Stead (D. W.). See D. Gallaher. 

Stedman(A. M. M.), M.A. 

INITIA LATINA : Easy Lessons on Elemen- 
tary Accidence. Ninth Edition. Fcaf. 
Zvo. if. 

FIRST LATIN LESSONS. Tenth Edi- 
tion. Cr. Zvo. as. 

FIRST LATIN READER. With Notes 
adapted to the Shorter Latin Primer and 
Vocabulary. Sixth Edition revi 'sed. iZmo. 
is. 6d. 

EASY SELECTIONS FROM C/ESAR 
The Helvetian War. Second Edition. 

EASY^SELECTIONS FROM LIVY. The 
Kings of Rome. iZ-mo. Second Edition, 
is. 6d. 

EASY LATIN PASSAGES FOR UNSEEN 
TRANSLATION. Eleventh Ed. Fcaj>. 

EXEMPLA 'LATINA. First Exercises 
in Latin Accidence. With Vocabulary. 
Third Edition. Cr. Zvo. is. 



GENERAL LITERATURE 



EASY LATIN EXERCISES ON THE 
SYNTAX OF THE SHORTER AND 
REVISED LATIN PRIMER. With 
Vocabulary. Eleventh and Cheaper Edition, 
re-written, Cr. %vo. is. 6d. Original 
Edition, zs. 6d. KEV, 31. net. 

THE LATIN COMPOUND SENTENCE : 
Rules and Exercises. Second Edition. 
Cr. Svo. is. fid. With Vocabulary. 2S. 

NOTANDA QUAEDAM : Miscellaneous 
Latin Exercises on Common Rules and 
Idioms. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 
is. 6d. With Vocabulary, zs. Key, 2*. 

LATIN VOCABULARIES FOR REPE- 
TITION : Arranged according to Subjects. 
fourteenth Edition. Fcap. Bvo. is. 6d. 

A VOCABULARY OF LATIN IDIOMS. 
iSmo. Second Edition, is. 

STEPS TO GREEK. Third Edition, re- 
vised, i&mo. is. 

A SHORTER GREEK PRIMER. Second 
Edition. Cr. 8vo. is. fid. 

EASY GREEK PASSAGES FOR UNSEEN 
TRANSLATION. Third Edition, re- 
vised. Fcap. 8vo. is. 6d. 

GREEK VOCABULARIES FOR RE- 
PETITION. Arranged according to Sub- 
jects. Fourth Edition. Fcap. Zvo. is f>d. 

GREEK TESTAMENT SELECTIONS. 
For the use of Schools. With Introduc- 
tion, Notes, and Vocabulary. Fourth 
Edition. Fcap. Zvo. as. 6d. 

STEPS TO FRENCH. Seventh Edition. 
iSmo. Sd. 

FIRST FRENCH LESSONS. Seventh Edi- 
tion, revised. Cr. Zvo. is. 

EASY FRENCH PASSAGES FOR UN- 
SEEN TRANSLATION. Fifth Edi- 
tion, revised. Fcap. 8vo. is. f>d. 

EASY FRENCH EXERCISES ON ELE- 
MENTARY SYNTAX. With Vocabu- 
lary. Fourth Edition. Cr. Zvo. 2j. 6d. 

FRENCH*' VOCABULARIES FOR RE- 
PETITION : Arranged according to Sub- 
jects. Thirteenth Edition. Fcap. Svo. is. 
See also School Examination Series. 

Steel (R. Elliott), M.A., F.C.S. THE 
WORLD OF SCIENCE. With 147 
Illustrations. Second Edition. Cr. Bvo. 2s. 6d. 
See also School Examination Series. 

Stephenson (C.), of the Technical College, 
Bradford, and Suddards (F.) of the 
Yorkshire College, Leeds. ORNAMEN- 
TAL DESIGN FOR WOVEN FABRICS. 
Illustrated. Demy 8vo. Third Edition. 
^s. 6d. 

Stephenson (J.), M.A. THE CHIEF 
TRUTHS OF THE CHRISTIAN 
FAITH. Cr. Zvo. is. 6d. 

Sterne ( Laurence). See Little Library. 

Sterry (W.). M.A. ANNALS OF ETON 
COLLEGE. Illustrated. DemyZvo. js.6d. 

Steuart ({Catherine). BY ALLAN 
WATER. Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 



Stevenson (R. L.) THE LETTERS OF 
ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON TO 
HIS FAMILY AND FRIENDS. 
Selected and Edited by SIDNEY COLVIN. 
Third Edition. Cr. Bvo. 12$. 

LIBRARY EDITION. Demy&vo. xvok. iy.net. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

VAILIMA LETTERS. With an Etched 
Portrait by WILLIAM STRANG. Fifth 
Edition. Cr. Bvo. Buckram. 6s. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

THE LIFE OF R. L. STEVENSON. See 
G. Balfour. 

Stevenson (M. I.). FROM SARANAC 
TO THE MARQUESAS. Being Letters 
written by Mrs. M. I. STEVENSON during 
1887-8. Cr. Bvo. 6s. net. 

LETTERS FROM SAMOA, 1891-93. Edited 
and arranged by M. C. BAI.FOUR. With 
many Illustrations. Second Edition Cr. 
Bvo. 6s. net. 

Stoddart (Anna M.). See Oxford Bio- 
graphics. 

Stokes (F. G.), B.A. HOURS WITH 
RABELAIS. From the translation of SIR 
T. URQUHART and P. A. MOTTEUX. With 
a Portrait in Photogravure. Cr. Bvo. $s. 6d. 
net. 

Stone (S. J.). POEMS AND HYMNS. 
With a Memoir by F. G. ELLERTON, 
M.A. With Portrait. Cr. Bvo. 6s. 

Storr (Vernon F.), M.A., Lecturer in 
the Philosophy of Religion in Cambridge 
University ; Examining Chaplain to the 
Archbishop of Canterbury ; formerly Fellow 
of University College, Oxford. DEVELOP- 
MENT AND DIVINE PURPOSE Cr. 
Bvo. 5^. net. 

Straker(F.). See Books on Business. 

Streane (A. W.), D.D. See Churchman's 
Bible. 

Streatfeild (R. A.). MODERN MUSIC 
AND MUSICIANS. With 24 Illustra- 
tions. Second Edition. Demy Svo. js. 6d. 
net. 

Stroud (H.), D.Sc., M.A. See Textbooks of 

Strutt (Joseph). THE SPORTS AND 
PASTIMES OF THE PEOPLE OF 
ENGLAND. Illustrated by many engrav- 
ings. Revised by J . CHARLES Cox, LL. D. , 
F.S.A. Quarto. 2if. net. 

Stuart (Capt. Donald). THE STRUGGLE 
FOR PERSIA. With a Map. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Sturch(F.)., Staff Instructor to the Surrey 
County Council. MANUAL TRAINING 
DRAWING (WOODWORK). Its Prin- 
ciples and Application, with Solutions to 
Examination Questions, 1892-1905, Ortho- 
graphic, Isometric and Oblique Projection. 
With 50 Plates and 140 Figures. Foolscap. 
5*. net. 

Suddards (F.). See C. Stephenson. 

Surtees (R. S.). See I.P.L. 

Symes (J. E.), M.A. THE FRENCH 
REVOLUTION. SecondEdititm. Cr. 8z*. 
w. 6d. 



MESSRS. METHUEN'S CATALOGUE 



Sympson(E. M.), M.A., M.D. See Ancient 
Cities. 

Syrett (Netta). See Little Blue Books. 

Tacitus. AGRICOLA. With Introduction 
Notes, Map, etc., by R..F. DAVIS, M.A., 
Fca.f>. Svo. ss. 

GERM AN I A. By the same Editor, Fcap. 
Svo. zs. See also Classical Translations. 

Tallack(W.). HOWARD LETTERS AND 
MEMORIES. Demy &vo. los. 6d. net. 

Tauler ( J. ). See Library of Devotion. 

Taylor (A. E.). THE ELEMENTS OF 
METAPHYSICS. DemyZvo. ios.6d.net. 

Taylor (P. Q.), M. A. See Commercial Series. 

Taylor (I. A.). See Oxford Biographies. 

Taylor (John W.). THE COMING OF 
THE SAINTS : Imagination and Studies 
in Early Church History and Tradition. 
With 36 Illustrations. Demytrtio. 7*. 6d.net. 

Taylor (T. M.), M.A., Fellow of Gonville 
and Caius College, Cambridge. A CON- 
STITUTIONAL AND POLITICAL 
HISTORY OF ROME. Cr. 8vo. 7*. 6d. 

Tennyson (Alfred, Lord). THE EARLY 
POEMS OF. Edited, with Notes and 
an Introduction, by J. CHURTON COLLINS, 
M.A. Cr. 8vo. 6s. 

IN MEMORIAM, MAUD, AND THE 
PRINCESS. Edited by J. CHURTON 
COLLINS, M.A. Cr. Svo. 6s. See also 
Little Library. 

Terry (C. S.). See Oxford Biographies. 

Thackeray (W. M.). See Little Library. 

Theobald (F. V.), M.A. INSECT LIFE. 
Illustrated. Second Edition Revised. Cr. 
8v0. 2s. 6d. 

Thompson (A. H.). See Little Guides. 

Tileston(MaryW.). DAILY STRENGTH 
FOR DAILY NEEDS. Thirteenth Edi- 
tion. Medium i6mo. ss. 6d. net. Also an 
edition in superior binding, 6s. 

Torrtpkins (H. W.), F.R.H.S. See Little 

Towiiley (Lady Susan). MY CHINESE 
NOTE-BOOK. With 16 Illustrations and 
2 Maps. Third Edition. Demy Svo. los. 
6d. net. 

Toynbee (Paget), M.A., D.Litt. See 
Oxford Biographies. 

Trevelyan(Q. M.), Fellow of Trinity College, 
Cambridge. ENGLAND UNDER THE 
STUARTS. With Maps and Plans. Second 
Edition. Demy Svo. los. 6d. net. 

Troutbeck (Q. E.). See Little Guides. 

Tyler (E. A.), B.A., F.C.S. See Junior 
School Books. 

Tyrrell-Qill (Frances). See Little Books 

Vardon (Harry). THE COMPLETE 
GOLFER. Illustrated. Eighth Edition. 
Demy $>vo. \os. 6d. net. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Vaughan (Henry). See Little Library. 

Vausrhan (Herbert M.), B.A.(Oxon.). THE 
LAST OF THE ROYAL STUARTS, 
HENRY STUART, CARDINAL, 
DUKE OF YORK. With 20 Illustrations. 
Second Edition. Demy &vo. ioj. 6d. net. 



THE NAPLES RIVERIA. With 25 Illus- 
trations in Colour by MAURICE GREIFFEN 
HAGEN. Cr. &vo. 6s. 

A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Voegelin (A.), M.A. See Junior Examina- 
tion Series. 

WaddelKCol. L. A.), LL.D..C.B. LHASA 
AND ITS MYSTERIES. Witha Record 
of the Expedition of 1903-1904. With 155 
Illustrations and Maps. Third and 
Cheaper Edition. Demy Svo. ^s. 6d. net. 

Wade(Q. W.), n.D. OLDTESTAMENT 
HISTORY. With Maps, fourth Edition. 

Wagner (Richard). MUSIC DRAMAS: 
Interpretations, embodying Wagner's own 
explanations. By A. L. CLEATHKK and 
B. CRUMP. In Four Volumes. Fcap dvo. 
zs. 6d. each. 
VOL. i. THE RING OF THE NIBELUNG. 

Third Edition. 
VOL. ii. PARSIFAL, LOHENGRIN, and 

THE HOLY GRAIL. 
VOL. in. TRISTAN AND ISOLDE. 

Wall(J. C.). DEVILS. Illustrated by the 
Author and from photographs. Demy Svo. 
4S. 6d. net. See also Antiquary's Books. 

Walters (H. B.). See Little Books on Art 
and Classics of Art. 

Walton (F. W.). See School Histories. 

Walton (Izaac) and Cotton (Charles). 
See I.P.L., Standard Library, and Little 
Library. 

Warren-Vernon (Hon. William), M.A. 
READINGS ON THE INFERNO OF 
DANTE, based on the Commentary _ of 
BENVKNUTODA IMOLA and other authorities. 
With an Introduction by the Rev. Dr. 
MOORE. In Two Volumes. Second 
Edition, entirely re-written. Cr. &vo. i$s. 
net. 

Waterhouse (Mrs. Alfred). WITH THE 
SIMPLE-HEARTED: Little Homilies to 
Women in Country Places. Second Edition. 
Small Pott SVP. 2s. net. 
See also Little Library. 

Weatherhead (T. C.), M.A. EXAMINA- 
TION PAPERS IN HORACE. Cr. Svo. 
2s. See also Junior Examination Series. 

Webb (W. T.), See Little Blue Books. 

Webber (F. C.). See Textbooks of Techno- 
logy. 

Weir (Archibald), M.A. AN INTRO- 
DUCTION TO THE HISTORY OF 
MODERN EUROPE. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Wells (Sidney H.). See Textbooks of 
Science. 

WelIs(J.),M.A.,FellowandTutorofWadham 
College. OXFORD AND OXFORD 
LIFK. Third Edition. Cr. Svo. 3* . 6d. 

A SHORT HISTORY OF ROME. Seventh 
Edition. With 3 Maps. .Cr. Svo. 3*. 6d. 
See also Little Guides. 

Wheldon(F.W.). A LITTLE BROTHER 
TO THE BIRDS. With 15 Illustrations, 
7 of which are by A. H. BUCKLANO. Large 
Cr. Svo. 6s. 



GENERAL LITERATURE 



WhIMey(C). See W. E. Henley. 

Whibley (L.), M.A., Fellow of Pembroke 
College, Cambridge. GREEK OLIGAR- 
CHIES : THEIR ORGANISATION 
AND CHARACTER. Cr. &w. 6s. 

Whitaker (G. H.), M.A. See Churchman's 
Bible. 

White (Gilbert). THE NATURAL 
HISTORY OF SELBORNK. Edited by 
L. C. Mi ALL, F. R.S. : assisted by W. WARDE 
FOWLER, M.A. Cr. ?>vo. 6s. 
See also Standard Library. 

Whitfield (E. E.)- See Commercial Series. 

Whitehead (A. W.). G A S P A R D D E 
C O L I G N Y. Illustrated. Demy &vo. 

Whiteley (R. Lloyd), F.I.C., Principal of 
the Municipal Science School, West Brom- 
wich. AN ELEMENTARY TEXT- 
BOOK OF INORGANIC CHEMISTRY. 
Cr. %vo. vs. 6d. 

Whltley (Miss). See Lady Dilke. 

Whitten (W.). See John Thomas Smith. 

Whyte(A. G.)i B.Sc. See Books on Business. 

Wilberforce (Wilfrid). See Little Books 

Wilde (Oscar). DEPROFUNDIS. Seventh 
Edition. Cr. 8vo. $s. net. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

THE WORKS OF 

*THE DUCHESS OF PADUA. Demy 8vo. 
i2S. 6d. net. 

POEMS. DemyKvo. izs.bd.net. 

INTENTIONS. Demy&vo. i2s.6d.net. 

*SALOME, AND OTHER PLAYS. Demy 
Zvo. i2s. 6d. net. 

LADY WINDERMERE'S FAN. Demy 
8vo. i2S. 6d. net. 

*A WOMAN OF NO IMPORTANCE. 
Demy 8vo. izs. 6d. net. 

*AN IDEAL HUSBAND. Demy Zvo. 
I2S. 6d. net. 

*THE IMPORTANCE OF BEING EAR- 
NEST. Demy 87/0. izs. 6d. net 

*A HOUSE OF POMEGRANATES and 
THE HAPPY PRINCE. Demy 8vo. 
i2S. 6d. net. 

*LORD ARTHUR SAVILE'S CRIME and 
OTHER PROSE PIECES. Demy Svo. 
T2S. 6d. net. 

Wilkins (W. H.), B.A. THE ALIEN 
INVASION. Cr. Bra. us. 6d. 

Williams (A.). PETROL PETER: or 
Pretty Stories and Funny Pictures. Illus- 
trated in Colour by A. W. MILLS. Demy 
4/0. 35. 6d. net. 

Williamson (M. G.). See Ancient Cities. 

Williamson (W.). THE BRITISH 
GARDENER. Illustrated. Demy Sw. 
los, 6d. 

Williamson (W.), B.A. See Junior Ex- 
amination Series, Junior School Books, and 
Beginner's Books. 

Willson (Beckles). LORD STRATH- 
CONA : the Story of his Life. Illustrated. 
Demy Svo. 7$. 6d. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 



\V ilmot-Buxton (E. M.). MAKERS OF 
EUROPE. Cr. Svo. Seventh Ed. 3 s. 6ef. 
A Text-book of European History for 
Middle Forms. 

THE ANCIENT WORLD. With Maps and 
Illustrations. Cr.Svo. js. 6d. 
See also Beginner's Books. 

WHson( Bishop.)' See Library of Devotion. 

Wilson (A. J.). See Books on Business. 

Wilson (H. A.). See Books on Business. 

Wilson (J. A.). See Simplified French 
Texts. 

Wilton (Richard), M.A. LYRA PAS- 
TORALIS : Songs of Nature, Church, and 
Home. Pott Svo. zs. 6d. 

Winbolt (S. E.), M.A. EXERCISES IN 
LATIN ACCIDENCE. Cr. Svo. is. 6d. 

LATIN HEXAMETER VERSE : An Aid 
to Composition. Cr. 8va. 3*. 6d. KEY, 
$s. net. 

Windle (B. C. A.), F.R.S., F.S. A. See Anti- 
quary's Books, Little Guides, Ancient 
Cities, and School Histories. 

Winterbotham (Canon), M.A., B.Sc., 
LL.B. See Churchman's Library. 

Wood (Sir Evelyn), F.M., V.C., G.C.B., 
G.C.M.G. FROM MIDSHIPMAN TO 
FIELD-MARSHAL. With 24 Illustra- 
tions and Maps. Two Volumes. Fourth 
Edition. Demy Svo. 25$. net. 

Wood (J. A. E.). See Textbooks of 
Technology. 

Wood (J. Hickory). DAN LENO. Illus- 

trated. Third Edition. Cr. 8vo. 6s. 

A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Wood (W. Birkbeck), M. A., late Scholar of 
Worcester College, Oxford, and Edmonds 
(Major J. E.), R.E., D.A.Q.-M.G. A 
HISTORY OF THE CIVIL WAR IN 
THE UNITED STATES. With an 
Introduction by H. SPENSER WILKINSON. 
With 24 Maps and Plans. Demy 3vo. 
i2S. 6d. net. 

Wordsworth (Christopher). See Anti- 
quary's Books. 

Words worth (W.). POEMS BY. Selected 
by STOPFORD A. BROOKE. With 40 Illus- 
trations by EDMUND H. NEW. With a 
Frontispiece in Photogravure. Demy 8vo. 
js. 6d. net. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Wordsworth (W.) and Coleridge (S. T.). 
See Little Library. 

Wright (Arthur), M.A., Fellow of Queen's 
College, Cambridge. See Churchman's 
Library. 

Wright (C. Gordon). See Dante. 

Wright (J. C.). TO-DAY. Demy i6mg. 
is. 6d. tut. 

Wright (Sophie). GERMAN VOCABU- 
LARIES FOR REPETITION. Fcap. 8vo. 
is. 6d. 

Wrong (George M.), Professor of History 
in the University of Toronto. T H K 
EARL OF ELGIN. Illustrated. Demy 
8vo. is. 6d. net. 

A Colonial Edition is also published. 



20 



MESSRS. METHUEN'S CATALOGUE 



Wyatt (Kate M.). See M. R. Gloag. 

Wylde(A. B.). MODERN ABYSSINIA. 
With a Map and a Portrait. Demy 8v0. 
i$s. net. 
A Colonial Edition is also published. 

Wyndham(Rt. Hon. George). M.P. THE 
POEMS OF WILLIAM SHAKE- 
SPEARE. With an Introduction and 
Notes. Demy Svo. Buckram , gilt top. 
i of. 6i/. 

Wyon (R.) and Prance (Q.). THE LAND 
OF THE BLACK MOUNTAIN. Being 
a Description of Montenegro. With 40 
Illustrations. Cr. Svo. 2s. (id. net. 

Yeats (W. B.). A BOOK OF IRISH 
VERSE. Selected from Modern Writers. 



Revised and Enlarged Edition. Cr. Sew. 

3*. (>d. 
Youngr (Pilson). THE COMPLETE 

MOTORIST. With 138 Illustrations. 

Sixth Edition. Demy %vo. I2s. 6d. net. 

A Colonial Edition is also published. 
THE JOY OF THE ROAD : An Apprecia- 

tion of the Motor Car. Small Demy Svo. 

5S. net. 
Young: (T. M.). THE AMERICAN 

COTTON INDUSTRY: A Study of 

Work and Workers. Cr. &vo. Cloth, is. M. ; 

paper boards, is. 6d. 
Zimmern (Antonla). WHAT DO WE 

KNOW CONCERNING ELECTRI- 

CITY? Fcap.Zvo. is.6d.net. 



Ancient Cities 

General Editor, B. C. A. WINDLE, D.Sc., F.R.S. 
Cr. 8vo. 4^. 6d. net. 



CHESTER. By B. C. A. Windle, D.Sc. F.R.S. 

Illustrated by E. H. New. 
SHREWSBURY. By T. Auden, M.A., F.S.A. 

Illustrated. 
CANTERBURY. By J. C. Cox, LL.D., F.S.A. 

Illustrated. 
EDINBURGH. By M. G. Williamson, M.A. 

Illustrated by Herbert Railton. 



LINCOLN. By E. Mansel Sympson, M.A., 
M.D. Illustrated by E. H. New. 

BRISTOL. By Alfred Harvey. Illustrated 
by E. H. New. 

DUBLIN. By S. A. O. Fitzpatrick. Illustrated 
by W. C. Green. 



The Antiquary's Books 

General Editor, J. CHARLES COX, LL.D., F.S.A. 
Demy 8vo. Js. 6d. net. 



ENGLISH MONASTIC LIFE. By the Right 
Rev. Abbot Gasquet, O.S B. Illustrated. 
Third Edition. 

REMAINS OF THE PREHISTORIC AGE IN 
ENGLAND. By B. C. A. Windle, D.Sc., 
F.R.S. With numerous Illustrations and 
Plans. 

OLD SERVICE BOOKS OF THE ENGLISH 
CHURCH. By Christopher Wordsworth, 
M.A., and Henry Littlehales. With 
Coloured and other Illustrations. 

CELTIC ART. By J. Romilly Allen, F.S.A. 
With numerous Illustrations and Plans. 

ARCHAEOLOGY AND FALSE ANTIQUITIES. 
By R. Munro, LL.D. Illustrated. 

SHRINES OF BRITISH SAINTS. By J. C. Wall. 
With numerous Illustrations and Plans. 



THE ROYAL FORESTS OF ENGLAND. By J. 

C. Cox, LL.D., F.S.A. Illustrated. 
THE MANOR_ AND MANORIAL RECORDS. 

By Nathaniel J. Hone. Illustrated. 
ENGLISH SEALS. By J. Harvey Bloom. 

Illustrated. 
THE DOMESDAY INQUEST. By Adolphus 

Ballard, B. A. , LL. B. With 27 1 llustrations. 
THE BRASSES OF ENGLAND. By Herbert 

W. Mack 1 in, M.A. With many Illustrations. 
PARISH LIFE IN MEDIEVAL ENGLAND. By 

the Right Rev. Abbott Gasquet, O.S.B. 

With many Illustrations. Second Edition. 
THE BELLS OF ENGLAND. By Canon J. J. 

Raven, D.D... F.S.A. With Illustrations. 

Second Edition. 



The Arden Shakespeare 

Demy 8v0. 2s. 6d. net each -volume. 

General Editor, W. J. CRAIG. 

An edition of Shakespeare in single Plays. Edited with a full Introduction, Textual 
Notes, and a Commentary at the foot of the page. 

HAMLET. Edited by Edward Dowden. j KING LEAR. Edited by W. J. Craig. 

ROMEO AND JULIET. Edited by Edward JULIUS CAESAR. Edited by M. Macmillan. 

I THE TEMPEST. Edited by Moreton Luce. 

[Continued. 



Dowden. 



GENERAL LITERATURE 



21 



ARDEN SHAKESPEARE continued. 

OTHELLO. Edited by H. C. Hart. 

TITUS ANDRONICUS. Edited by H. B. Bail- 
don. 

CYMBELINE. Edited by Edward Dowden. 

THE MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR. Edited by 
H. C. Hart. 

A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM. Edited by 
H. Cuningham. 

KING HENRY V. Edited by H. A. Evans. 

ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL. Edited by 
W. O. Brigstocke. 

THE TAMING OF THE SHREW. Edited by 
R. Warwick Bond. 

TIMON OF ATHENS. Edited by K. Deighton. 

MEASURE FOR MEASURE. Edited by H. C. 
Hart. 

TWELFTH NIGHT. Edited by Moreton Luce. 



THE MERCHANT OF VENICE. Edited by 

C. Knox Pooler. 
TROILUS AND CRESSIDA. Edited by K. 

Deighton. 
ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA. Edited by R. H. 

Case. 
LOVE'S LABOUR'S LOST. Edited by H. C. 

Hart. 
THE Two GENTLEMAN OF VERONA. R, 

Warwick Bond. 

PERICLES. Edited by K. Deighton. 
THE COMEDY OF ERRORS. Edited by H. 

Cuningham. 
KING RICHARD in. Edited by A. H. 

Thompson. 
KING JOHN. Edited by Ivor B. John. 



EASY FRENCH RHYMES. By Henri Blouet. 
Second Edition. Illustrated. Fcap.^vo. is. 

EASY STORIES FROM ENGLISH HISTORY. By 
E. M. Wilmot-Buxton, Author of ' Makers 
of Europe.' Second Edition. Cr. 8v0. is. 

EASY EXERCISES IN ARITHMETIC. Arranged 
by W. S. Beard. Second Edition. Fcap. 



The Beginner's Books 

Edited by W. WILLIAMSON, B.A. 



8vc. Without Answers, is. With Answers. 

is. 3< 
EASY DICTATION AND SPELLING. By W. 

Williamson, B.A. Fifth Edition. Fcap. 

Svo. is. 
AN EASY POETRY BOOK. Selected and 

arranged by W. Williamson, B. A., Author 

of 'Dictation Passages.' Cr, &va. is. 



Books on Business 

Cr. 8vo. 2s. 6d. net. 



PORTS AND DOCKS. By Douglas Owen. 

RAILWAYS. By E. R. McDermott. 

THE STOCK EXCHANGE. By Chas. Duguid. 

Second Edition. 
THE BUSINESS OF INSURANCE. By A. J. 

Wilson. 
THE ELECTRICAL INDUSTRY : LIGHTING, 

TRACTION, AND POWER. By A. G. Whyte, 

B.Sc. 
THE SHIPBUILDING INDUSTRY : Its History, 

Science, Practice, and Finance. By David 

Pollock, M.I.N.A. 

THE MONEY MARKET. By F. Straker. 
THE BUSINESS SIDE OF AGRICULTURE. By 

A. G. L. Rogers, M.A. 
LAW IN BUSINESS. By H. A. Wilson. 
THE BREWING INDUSTRY. By Julian L. 

Baker, F. I.C., F.C.S. 



THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY. By G. de H. 
Stone. 

MINING AND MINING INVESTMENTS. By 
'A. Moil.' 

THE BUSINESS OF .ADVERTISING. By Clarence 
G. Moran, Barrister-at-Law. Illustrated. 

TRADE UNIONS. By G. Drage. 

CIVIL ENGINEERING. By T. Claxton Fidler, 
M.Inst. C.E. Illustrated. 

THE IRON TRADE OF GREAT BRITAIN. By 
J. Stephen Jeans. Illustrated. 

MONOPOLIES, TRUSTS, AND KARTELLS. By 
F. W. Hirst. 

THE COTTON INDUSTRY AND TRADE. By 
Prof. S. J. Chapman, Dean of the Faculty 
of Commerce in the University of Man- 
chester. Illustrated. 



Byzantine Texts 

Edited by J. B. BURY, M.A., Litt.D. 
A series of texts of Byzantine Historians, edited by English and foreign scholars. 



ZACHARIAH OF MITYLKNE. Translated by F. 
J. Hamilton, D.D., and E. W. Brooks. 
Demy Zvo. i?s. 6d. net. 

EVAGRIUS. Edited by Leon Parmentier and 
M. Bidez. Demy Svo. tos. 6d. net. 



THE HISTORY OF PSELLUS. Edited by C. 

Sathas. Demy Svo. 15$. net. 
ECTHESIS CHRONICA. Edited by Professor 

Lambros. Demy &ve. js. 6d. net. 
THE CHRONICLE OF MOREA. Edited by John 

Schmitt. Demy Zve. 15*. net. 



MESSRS. METHUEN'S CATALOGUE 



The Churchman's Bible 

General Editor, J. H. BURN, B.D., F.R.S.E. 
Fcap. Svo. is. 6d. net each. 

A series of Expositions on the Books of the Bible, which will be of service to the 
general reader in the practical and devotional study of the Sacred Text. 

Each Book is provided with a full and clear Introductory Section, in which is 
stated what is known or conjectured respecting the date and occasion of the com- 
position of the Book , and any other particulars that may help to elucidate its meaning 
as a whole. The Exposition is divided into sections of a convenient length, corre- 
sponding as far as possible with the divisions of the Church Lectionary. The 
Translation of the Authorised Version is printed in full, such corrections as are 
deemed necessary being placed in footnotes. 



THE EPISTLE OF ST. PAUL THE APOSTLE TO 
THE GALATIANS. Edited by A. W. Robin- 
son, M. A. Second Edition. 

ECCLESIASTES. Edited by A. W. Streane. 

D.D. 
THE EPISTLE OF ST. PAUL THE APOSTLE TO 

THE PHILIPPIANS. Edited by C. R. D. 

Biggs, D.D. Second Edition. 
THE EPISTLE OF ST. JAMES. Edited by 

H. W. Fulford, M.A. 



ISAIAH. Edited by W. E. Barnes, D.D. Two 

Volumes. With Map. zs. net each. 
THE EPISTLE OF ST. PAUL THE APOSTLE TO 

THE EPHBSIANS. Edited by G. H. Whitaker, 

M.A. 
THE GOSPF.L ACCORDING TO ST. MARK. 

Edited by J. C. du Buisson, M.A. 2*. 6d. 

net. 
ST. PAUL'S EPISTLES TO THE COLOSSIANS 

AND PHILEMON. Edited by H. J. C. Knight, 

M.A. as. net. 



The Churchman's Library 

General Editor, J. H. BURN, B.D., F.R.S.E. 
Crown 8vo. is. 6d. each. 



THE BEGINNINGS OF ENGLISH CHRISTIANITY. 
By W. E. Collins, M.A. With Map. 

SOME NEW TESTAMENT PROBLEMS. By 
Arthur Wright, D.D. 6s. 

THE KINGDOM OF HEAVEN HERE AND HERE- 
AFTER. By Canon Winter botham, M.A., 

B.SC..LL.B. 

THE WORKMANSHIP OF THE PRAYER BOOK : 
Its Literary and Liturgical Aspects. By J. 
Dowden , D. D. Second Edition. 



EVOLUTION. By F. B. Jevons, M.A., Litt.D. 
THE OLD TESTAMENT AND THENEwScHOLAR- 

SHIP. By J. W. Peters, D.D. 6s. 
THE CHURCHMAN'S INTRODUCTION TO THE 

OLD TESTAMENT. By A. M. Mackay, li.A. 
THE CHURCH OF CHRIST. By E. T. Green, 

M.A. 6s. 
COMPARATIVE THEOLOGY. By J. A. Mac- 

Culloch. 6s. 



Classical Translations 

Edited by H. F. FOX, M.A., Fellow and Tutor of Brasenose College, Oxford. 

Crown 8vo. 

A series of Translations from the Greek and Latin Classics, distinguished by literary 
excellence as well as by scholarly accuracy. 

HORACE The Odes and Epodes. Translated 
by A. D. Godley, M.A. 2S. 

LUC*AN Six Dialogues (Nigrinus, Icaro-Me- 
nippus, The Cock, The Ship, The Parasite, 
The Lover of Falsehood) Translated by S. 
T. Irwin, M.A. y. 6d. 

SOPHOCLES Electra and Ajax. Translated by 
E. D. A. Morsheacl, M.A. us. 6d. 

TACITUS Agricola and Germania. Trans- 
lated by R. B. Townshend. 2s. 6d. 

THE SATIRKS OF JUVENAL. Translated by 
S. G. Owen. 21. 6d. 



Agamemnon, Choephoroe, Eu- 
menides. Translated by Lewis Campbell, 
LL.D. $s. 

CICERO De Oratore I. Translated by E. N. 
P. Moor, M.A. 3s. 6d. 

CICERO Select Orations (Pro Milone, Pro 
Mureno, Philippic n., in Catilinam). Trans- 
lated by H. E. D. Blakiston, M.A. 51. 

CICERO De Natura Deorutn. Translated by 
F. Brooks, M.A. 3*. M. 

CICERO De Ofiiciis. Translated by G. B. 
Gardiner, M.A. xs. (ui. 



GENERAL LITERATURE 



Classics of Art 

Edited by DR. J. H. W. LAING 



THE ART OF THE GREEKS. By H. B. Walters. 
With 112 Plates and 18 Illustrations in the 
Text. Wide Royal Svo. izs.6tf.net. 



VELAZQUEZ. By A. de Beruete. With 94 
Plates. Wide Royal Sva. los. (xl. Met. 



Commercial Series 

Edited by H. DE B. GIBBINS, Litt.D., M.A. 
Crown 8vo. 



COMMERCIAL EDUCATION IN THEORY AND 

PRACTICE. By E. E. Whitfield, M.A. 5*. 
An introduction to Methuen's Commercial 

Series treating the question of Commercial 

Education fully from both the point of view 

of the teacher and of the parent. 
BRITISH COMMERCE AND COLONIES FROM 

ELIZABETH TO VICTORIA. By H. de B. 

Gibbins, Litt.D., M.A. Third Edition, is. 
COMMERCIAL EXAMINATION PAPERS. By H. 

de B. Gibbins, Litt.D., M.A. is. 6d. 
THE ECONOMICS OF COMMERCE, By H. de 

B. Gibbins, Litt-D., M.A. Second Edition. 

is. 6d. 
A GERMAN COMMERCIAL READER. By S. E. 

Bally. With Vocabulary, as. 
A COMMERCIAL GEOGRAPHY OF THE BRITISH 

EMPIRE. By L. W. Lyde, M.A. fifth 

Edition, as. 
A COMMERCIAL GEOGRAPHY OF FOREIGN 

NATIONS. By F. C. Boon, B.A. as. 



A PRIMER OF BUSINESS. By S. Jackson, 

M.A. Third Edition, is. 6d. 
COMMERCIAL ARITHMETIC. By F. G. Taylor, 

M.A. Fourth Edition, is. 6d. 
FRENCH COMMERCIAL CORRESPONDENCE. By 

S. E. Bally. With Vocabulary. Third 

Edition, vs. 
GERMAN COMMERCIAL CORRESPONDENCE. By 

S. E. Bally. With Vocabulary. Second 

Edition, -is. f>d. 
A FRENCH COMMERCIAL READER. By S. E. 

Bally. With Vocabulary. Second Edition, as. 
PRECIS WRITING AND OFFICE CORRESPOND- 
ENCE. By E. E. Whitfield, M.A. Second 

Edition, zs. 
A GUIDE TO PROFESSIONS AND BUSINESS. 

By H. Jones, is. 6d. 
THE PRINCIPLES OF BOOK-KEEPING BY DOUBLE 

ENTRY. By J. E. B. M'Allen, M.A. as. 
COMMERCIAL LAW. By W. Douglas Edwards. 

Second Edition, as. 



The Connoisseur's Library 

Wide Royal 8v0. 2$s. net. 

A sumptuous series of 20 books on art, written by experts for collectors, superbly 
illustrated in photogravure, collotype, and colour. The technical side of the art is 
The first volumes are 



duly treated. 

MEZZOTINTS. By Cyril Davenport. With 40 

Plates in Photogravure. 
PORCELAIN. By Edward Dillon. With 19 

Plates in Colour, 20 in Collotype, and 5 in 

Photogravure. 
MINIATURES. By Dudley Heath. With 9 

Plates in Colour, 15 in Collotype, and 15 in 

Photogravure. 
IVORIES. By A. Maskell. With So Plates in 

Collotype and Photogravure. 
ENGLISH FURNITURE. By F. S. Robinson. 

With 160 Plates in Collotype and one in 

Photogravure. Second Edition. 



EUROPEAN ENAMELS. By Henry H. Cunyng- 
hame, C.B. With 54 Plates in Collotype 
and Half-tone and 4 Plates in Colour. 

GOLDSMITHS' AND SILVERSMITHS' WORK. By 
Nelson Dawson. With many Plates in 
Collotype and a Frontispiece in Photo- 
gravure. 

ENGLISH COLOURED BOOKS. By Martin 
Hardie. With 28 Illustrations in Colour 
and Collotype. 

GLASS. By Edward Dillon. With 37 Illus- 
trations in Collotype and 12 in Colour. 



The Library of Devotion 

With Introductions and (where necessary) Notes. 
Small Pott %vo, cloth, zs. ; leather, 2s. 6d. net. 



THE CONFESSIONS OF ST. AUGUSTINE. Edited 
by C. Bigg, D.D. Fifth Edition. 

THE CHRISTIAN YF.AR. Edited by Walter 
Lock, D. D. Third Edition. 



THE IMITATION OF CHRIST. Edited by C. 

Bigg, D.D, fourth Edition. 
A BOOK OF DEVOTIONS. Edited by J. W. 

Stanbridge. B.D. Second Edition. 

\Continued 



MESSRS. METHUBN'S CATALOGUE 



THE LIBRARY OF DEVOTION continued. 
LYRA INNOCENTIUM. Edited by Walter 

Lock, D.D. 
A SERIOUS CALL TO A DEVOUT AND HOLY 

LIFE. Edited by C. Bigg, D.D. Second 

Edition. 
THE TEMPLE. Edited by E. C. S. Gibson, 

D.D. Second Edition. 
A GUIDE TO ETERNITY. Edited by J. W. 

Stanbridge, B.D. 
THE PSALMS OF DAVID. Edited by B. W. 

Randolph, D.D. 
LYRA APOSTOLICA. By Cardinal Newman 

and others. Edited by Canon Scott Holland 

and Canon H. C. Beeching. M.A. 
THE INNER WAY. By J. Tauler. Edited by 

A. W. Hutton, M.A. 
THE THOUGHTS OF PASCAL. Edited by C. 

S. Jerram, M.A. 
ON THE LOVE OF GOD. By St. Francis de 

Sales. Edited by W. J. Knox-Little, M.A. 
A MANUAL OF CONSOLATION FROM THE 

SAINTS AND FATHERS. Edited by J. H. 

Burn, B.D. 
THE SONG OF SONGS. Edited by B. Blaxland, 

M.A. 
THE DEVOTIONS OF ST. ANSELM. Edited by 

C. C. J. Webb, M.A. 
GRACE ABOUNDING. By JohnBunyan. Edited 

by S. C. Freer, M.A. 
BISHOP WILSON'S SACRA PRIVATA. Edited 

by A. E. Burn, B.D. 



LYRA SACRA : A Book of Sacred Verse. 
Edited by H. C. Beeching, M. A., Canon of 
Westminster. 

A DAY BOOK FROM THE S AINTS AND FATHERS. 
Edited by J. H. Burn, B.D. 

HEAVENLY WISDOM. A Selection from the 
English Mystics. Edited by E. C. Gregory. 

LIGHT, LIFE, and LOVE. A Selection from the 
German Mystics. Edited byW. R. Inge, M . A. 

AN INTRODUCTION TO THE DEVOUT LIFE. 
By St. Francis de Sales. Translated and 
Edited by T. Barns, M.A. 

MANCHESTER AL MONDO : a Contemplation 
of Death and Immortality. By Henry 
Montagu, Earl of Manchester. With an 
Introduction by Elizabeth Waterhouse, 
Editor of ' A Little Book of Life and Death.' 

THE LITTLE FLOWERS OF THE GLORIOUS 
MESSER ST. FRANCIS AND OF HIS 
FRIARS. Done into English by W. Hey- 
wood. With an Introduction by A. G. 
Ferrers Howell. 

THE SPIRITUAL GUIDE, which disencumbers 
the Soul and brings it by the Inward Way 
to the Getting of Perfect Contemplation 
and the Rich Treasure of Internal Peace. 
Written by Dr. Michael de Molinos, Priest. 
Translated from the Italian copy printed at 
Venice, 1685. Printed in the year 
MDCLXXXVIII. Edited by the Hon. Mrs. 
Arthur Lyttelton. 



The Illustrated Pocket Library of Plain and Coloured Books 

Fcap &vo. 35. 6d. net each volume. 

A series, in small form, of some of the famous illustrated books of fiction and 
general literature. These are faithfully reprinted from the first or best editions 
without introduction or notes. The Illustrations are chiefly in colour. 

COLOURED BOOKS 



OLD COLOURED BOOKS. By George Paston. 
With 1 6 Coloured Plates. Fcap.'&vo. ss.net. 

THE LIFE AND DEATH OF JOHN MYTTON, ESQ. 
By Nimrod. With 18 Coloured Plates by 
Henry Alken and T. J. Rawlins. Fourth 
Edition. 

THE LIFE OF A SPORTSMAN. By Nimrod. 
With 35 Coloured Plates by Henry Alken. 

HANDLEY CROSS. By R. S. Surtees. With 
17 Coloured Plates and 100 Woodcuts in the 
Text by John Leech. Second Edition. 

MR. SPONGE'S SPORTING TOUR. By R. S. 
Surtees. With 13 Coloured Plates and 90 
Woodcuts in the Text by John Leech. 

JORROCKS' JAUNTS AND JOLLITIES. By R. S. 
Surtees. With 15 Coloured Plates by H. 
Alken. Second Edition. 

This volume is reprinted from the ex- 
tremely rare and costly edition of 1 843, which 
contains Alken's very fine illustrations 
instead of the usual ones by Phiz. 

ASK MAMMA. By R. S. Surtees. With 13 
Coloured Plates and 70 Woodcuts in the 
Text by John Leech. 



THE ANALYSIS OF THE HUNTING FIELD. By 

R. S. Surtees. With 7 Coloured Plates by 

Henry Alken, and 43 Illustrations on Wood. 
THE TOUR OF DR. SYNTAX IN SEARCH OF 

THE PICTURESQUE. By William Comb*. 

With 30 Coloured Plates by T. Rowlandson. 
THE TOUR OF DOCTOR SYNTAX IN SEARCH 

OF CONSOLATION. By William Combe. 

With 24 Coloured Plates by T. Rowlandson. 
THE THIRD TOUR OF DOCTOR SYNTAX IN 

SEARCH OF A WIFE. By William Combe. 

With 24 Coloured Plates by T. Rowlandson. 
THE HISTORY OF JOHNNY QUAE GENUS : the 

Little Foundling of the late Dr. Syntax. 

By the Author of ' The Three Tours. 1 With 

24 Coloured Plates by Rowlandson. 
THE ENGLISH DANCE OF DEATH, from the 

Designs of T. Rowlandson, with Metrical 

Illustrations by the Author of 'Doctor 

Syntax." Two Volumes. 

This book contains 76 Coloured Plates. 
THE DANCE OF LIFE: A Poem. By the Author 

of 'Doctor Syntax.' Illustrated with 26 

Coloured Engravings by T. Rowlandson. 

{Continued. 



GENERAL LITERATURE 



ILLUSTRATED POCKET LIBRARY OF PLAIN AND COLOURED HOOKS continued. 



LIFE IN LONDON : or, the Day and Night 
Scenes of Jerry Hawthorn, Esq., and his 
Elegant Friend, Corinthian Tom. By 
Pierce Egan. With 36 Coloured Plates by 
I. R. and G. Cruikshank. With numerous 
Designs on Wood. 

REAL LIFE IN LONDON : or, the Rambles 
and Adventures of Bob Tallyho, Esq., and 
his Cousin, The Hon. Tom Dashall. By an 
Amateur (Pierce Egan). With 31 Coloured 
Plates by Alken and Rowlandson, etc. 
Two Volumes. 

THE LIFE OF AN ACTOR. By Pierce Egan. 
With 27 Coloured Plates by Theodore Lane, 
and several Designs on Wood. 

THE VICAR OF WAKEFIELD. By Oliver Gold- 
smith. With 24 Coloured Plates by T. Row- 
landson. 

THE MILITARY ADVENTURES OF JOHNNY 
NEWCOME. By an Officer. With 15 Coloured 
Plates by T. Rowlandson. 

THE ^NATIONAL SPORTS OF GREAT BRITAIN. 
With Descriptions and 51 Coloured Plates 
by Henry Alken. 

This book is completely different from the 
large folio edition of ' National Sports ' by 
the same artist, and none of the plates are 
similar. 



THE ADVENTURES OF A POST CAPTAIN. By 
A Naval Officer. With 24 Coloured Plates 
by Mr. Williams. 

GAMONIA : or. the Art of Preserving Game ; 
and an Improved Method of making Planta- 
tions and Covers, explained and illustrated 
by Lawrence Rawstorne, Esq. With 15 
Coloured Plates by T. Rawlins. 

AN ACADEMY FOR GROWN HORSEMEN : Con- 
taining the completes! Instructions for 
Walking, Trotting, Cantering, Galloping, 
Stumbling, and Tumbling. Illustrated with 
27 Coloured Plates, and adorned with a 
Portrait of the Author. By Geoffrey 
Gambado, Esq. 

REAL LIFE IN IRELAND, or, the Day and 
Night Scenes of Brian Boru, Esq., and his 
Elegant Friend, Sir Shawn O'Dogherty. 
By a Ral Paddy. With 19 Coloured Plates 
by Heath, Marks, etc. 

THE ADVENTURES OF JOHNNY NEWCOME IN 
THE NAVY. By Alfred Burton. With 16 
Coloured Plates by T. Rowlandson. 

THE OLD ENGLISH SQUIRE: A Poem. By 
John Careless, Esq. With 20 Coloured 
Plates after the style of T. Rowlandson. 



PLAIN BOOKS 



THE GRAVE : A Poem. By Robert Blair. 
Illustrated by 12 Etchings executed by Louis 
Schiavonetti from the original Inventions of 
William Blake. With an Engraved Title Page 
and a Portrait of Blake by T. Phillips, R. A. 
The illustrations are reproduced in photo- 
gravure. 

ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE BOOK OF JOB. In- 
vented and engraved by William Blake. 

These famous Illustrations 21 in numbtr 
are reproduced in photogravure. 

JEsop's FABLES. With 380 Woodcuts by 
Thomas Bewick. 

WINDSOR CASTLE. ByW. Harrison Ainsworth. 
With 22 Plates and 87 Woodcuts in the Text 
by George Cruikshank. 



THE TOWER OF LONDON. By W. Harrison 
Ainsworth. With 40 Plates and 58 Woodcuts 
in the Text by George Cruikshank. 

FRANK FAIRLEGH. By F. E. Smedley. With 
30 Plates by George Cruikshank. 

HANDY ANDY. By Samuel Lover. With 24 
Illustrations by the Author. 

THE COMPLEAT ANGLER. By Izaak Walton 
and Charles Cotton. With 14 Plates and 77 
Woodcuts in the Text. 

This volume is reproduced from the beauti- 
ful edition of John Major of 1824. 

THE PICKWICK PAPERS. By Charles Dickens. 
With the 43 Illustrations by Seymour and 
Phiz, the two Buss Plates, and the 32 Con- 
temporary Onwhyn Plates. 



Junior Examination Series 

Edited by A. M. M. STEDMAN, M.A. Fcap. 8vo. is. 
By 



JUNIOR FRENCH EXAMINATION PAPERS. 

F. Jacob, M.A. Second Edition. 
JUNIOR LATIN EXAMINATION PAPERS. By C. 

G. Botting, B.A. Fourth Edition. 
JUNIOR ENGLISH EXAMINATION PAPERS. By 

W. Williamson, B.A. 
JUNIOR ARITHMETIC EXAMINATION PAPERS. 

By W. S. Beard. Third Edition. 
JUNIOR ALGEBRA EXAMINATION PAPERS. By 

S. W. Finn, M.A. 



JUNIOR GREEK EXAMINATION PAPERS. By T. 
C. Weatherhead, M.A. 

JUNIOR GENERAL INFORMATION EXAMINA- 
TION PAPERS. By W. S. Beard. 

A KEY TO THE ABOVE. 3.?. (xL net. 

JUNIOR GEOGRAPHY EXAMINATION PAPERS. 
By W. G. Baker, M.A. 

JUNIOR GERMAN EXAMINATION PAPERS. By 
A. Voegelin, M.A. 



26 



MESSRS. METHUEN'S CATALOGUE 



Junior School-Books 

Edited by O. D. INSKIP, LL.D., and W. WILLIAMSON, B.A. 



A CLASS-BOOK OF DICTATION PASSAGES. By 
W. Williamson, B.A. Twelfth. Edition. 
Cr. Zvo. is. (id. 

THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO ST. MATTHEW. 
Edited by E. Wilton South, M.A. With 
Three Maps. Cr. Zvo. is. 6d. 

THEGOSPEL AccoRDiNGToST. MARK. Edited 
by A. E. Rubie, D.D. With Three Maps. 
Cr. 8vo. is. 6d. 

A JUNIOR ENGLISH GRAMMAS. By W.William- 
son, B.A. With numerous passages for parsing 
and analysis, and a chapter on Essay Writin g. 
Third Edition. Cr. %vo. 2s. 

A JUNIOR CHEMISTRY. ByE. A. Tyler, B.A. , 
F.C.S. With 78 Illustrations. Third Edi- 
tion. Cr. &vo. ss. 6d. 

THE ACTS OF THE APOSTLES. Edited by 
A. E. Rubie, D.D. Cr. &vo. ss. 

A JUNIOR FRENCH GRAMMAR. By L. A. 
Sornet and M. J. Acatos. Cr. 8vo. 2s. 



ELEMENTARY EXPERIMENTAL SCIENCE. PHY- 
SICS by W.T. Clough,A.R.C.S. CHEMISTRY 
by A. E. Dunstan, B.Sc. With 2 Plates and 
154 Diagrams. Fourth Edition. Cr. Zvo. 

25. 6d. 

A JUNIOR GEOMETRY. By Noel S. Lydon. 
With 276 Diagrams, fourth Edition. Cr. 

&V0. 2S. 

ELEMENTARY EXPERIMENTAL CHEMISTRY. 

By A. E. Dunstan, B.Sc. With 4 Plates 

and 109 Diagrams. Cr. 8zv. 2s. 
A JUNIOR FRENCH PROSE. By R. R. N. 

Baron, M.A. Second Edition. Cr. Svo. is. 
THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO ST. LUKE. With 

an Introduction and Notes by William 

Williamson, B. A. With Three Maps. Cr. 

Svo. zs. 
THE FIRST BOOK OF KINGS. Edited by 

A. E. RUBIE, D.D. With Maps. Cr. 8r-o. 

M. 



Leaders of Religion 

Edited by H. C. BEECHING, M.A., Canon of Westminster. 

Cr. 8vo. 2s. net. 

CARDINAL NEWMAN. By R. H. Hutton. 
JOHN WESLEY. By J. H. Overton, M.A. 
BISHOP WILBERFORCE. By G. W. Daniell, 

M.A. 

CARDINAL MANNING. By A. W. Hutton, M.A. 
CHARLES SIMEON. By H. C. G. Moule, D.D. 
JOHN KEBLE. By Walter Lock, D.D. 
THOMAS CHALMERS. By Mrs. Oliphant. 
LANCELOT ANDREWES. By R. L. Ottley, 

D.D. Second Edition. 
AUGUSTINE OF CANTERBURY. By E. L. 

Cutts, D.D. 



With Portraits. 



WILLIAM LAUD. By W. H. Hutton, M.A. 

Third Edition. 

JOHNK.NOX. ByF. MacCunn. Second Edition. 
JOHN HOWE. By R. F. Horton, D.D. 
BISHOP KEN. By F. A. Clarke, M.A. 
GEORGE Fox, THK QUAKER. By T. Hodgkin, 

D.C.L. Third Edition. 
JOHN DONNE. By Augustus Jessopp, D.D. 
THOMAS CRANMER. By A. J. Mason, D.D. 
BISHOP LATIMER. By R. M. Carlyle and A 

J. Carlyle, M.A. 
BISHOP BUTLER. By W. A. Spooner, M.A. 



The Little Blue Books 

Illustrated. Demy i6mo. 2s. 6d. 



1. THE CASTAWAYS OF MEADOWBANK. By 

Thomas Cobb. 

2. THE BEECHNUT BOOK. By Jacob Abbott. 

Edited by E. V. Lucas. 

3. THE AIR GUN. By T. Hilbert. 

4. A SCHOOL YEAR. By Netta Syrett. 

5. THE PEELES AT THE CAPITAL. By Roger 

Ashton. 



6. THE TREASURE OF PRINCEGATE PRIORY. 
By T. Cobb. 



7. Mrs. BARBERRY'S 

Roger Ashton. 

8. A BOOK OF BAD CHILDREN. 

Webb. 

9. THE LOST BALL. By Thomas Cobb. 



GENERAL SHOP. By 
By W. T. 



Little Books on Art 

With many Illustrations. Demy i6mo. 2s. 6d. net. 

A series of monographs in miniature, containing the complete outline of the 
subject under treatment and rejecting minute details. These books are produced 
with the greatest care. Each volume consists of about 200 pages, and contains from 
30 to 40 illustrations, including a frontispiece in photogravure. 

GREEK ART. H. B. Walters. Third Edition. WATTS. R. E. D. Sketchley. 

BOOKPLATES. E.Almack. LEIGHTON. Alice Corkran. 

REYNOLDS. J. Sime. Second Edition. VELASQUEZ. Wilfrid Wilberforce and A. R. 

ROMNEY. George Paston. Gilbert. 

[Continued. 



GENERAL LITERATURE 



LITTLE BOOKS ON ART continued. 
GREUZE AND BOUCHER. Eliza F. Pollard. 
VANDYCK. M. G. Smallwood. 
TURNER. Frances Tyrrell-Gill. 
DURER. Jessie Allen. 
HOPPNER. H. P. K. Skipton. 
HOLBEIN. Mrs. G. Fortescue. 
BuRNE-JoNES. Fortun6e de Lisle. Second 

Edition. 
REMBRANDT. Mrs. E. A. Sharp 



COROT. Alice Pollard and Ethel Birnstingl. 
RAPHAEL. A. R. Dryhurst. 
MILLET. Netta Peacock. 
ILLUMINATED MSS. J. W. Bradley. 
CHRIST IN ART. Mrs. Henry Jenner. 
JEWELLERY. Cyril Davenport. 
CLAUDE. Edward Dillon. 
THE ARTS OF JAPAN. Edward Dillon. 
ENAMELS. Mrs. Nelson Dawson. 



The Little Galleries 
Demy i6mo. 2s. 6d. net. 

A series of little books containing examples of the best work of the great painters. 
Each volume contains 20 plates in photogravure, together with a short outline of the 
life and work of the master to whom the book is devoted. 



A LITTLE GALLERY OF REYNOLDS. 
A LITTLE GALLERY OF ROMNEY. 
A LITTLE GALLERY OF HOPPNER. 



A LITTLE GALLERY OF MILLAIS. 

A LITTLE GALLERY OF ENGLISH POSTS. 



The Little Guides 

With many Illustrations by E. H. NEW and other artists, and from photographs. 
Small Pott 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. net.; leather, 3*. 6d. net. 

Messrs. METHUEN are publishing a small series of books under the general title 
of THE LITTLE GUIDES. The main features of these books are (i) a handy and 
charming form, (2) artistic Illustrations by E. H. NEW and others, (3) good plans 
and maps, (4) an adequate but compact presentation of everything that is interest- 
ing in the natural features, history, archaeology, and architecture of the town or 
district treated. 



CAMBRIDGE AND ITS COLLEGES. By A. 

Hamilton Thompson. Second" Edition. 
OXFORD AND ITS COLLEGES. By J. Wells, 

M.A. Seventh Edition. 
ST. PAUL'S CATHEDRAL. By George Clinch. 
WESTMINSTER ABBEY. By G. E. Troutbeck. 

THE ENGLISH LAKES. By F. G. Brabant, M.A. 
THE MALVERN COUNTRY. By B. C. A. 

Windle, D.Sc., F.R.S. 
SHAKESPEARE'S COUNTRY. By B. C. A. 

Windle, D.Sc., F.R.S. Second Edition. 

BUCKINGHAMSHIRE. By E. S. Roscoe. 
CHESHIRE. By W. M. Gallichan. 
CORNWALL. By A. L. Salmon. 
DERBYSHIRE. By J. Charles Cox, LL.D., 

F.S.A. 

DEVON. By S. Baring-Gould. 
DORSET. By Frank R. Heath. 
HAMPSHIRE. By J. Charles Cox, LL.D.. 

F.S.A. 



HERTFORDSHIRE. By H. W. Tompkins, 

F.R.H.S. 

THE ISLE OF WIGHT. By G. Clinch. 
KENT. By G. Clinch. 
KERRY. By C. P. Crane. 
MIDDLESEX. By John B. Firth. 
NORTHAMPTONSHIRE. By Wakeling Dry. 
NORFOLK. By W. A. Dutt. 
OXFORDSHIRE. By F. G. Brabant, M.A. 
SUFFOLK. By W. A. Dutt. 
SURREY. By F. A. H. Lambert. 
SUSSEX. By F. G. Brabant, M.A. Second 

Edition. 
THE EAST RIDING OF YORKSHIRE. By J. E. 

Morris. 
THE NORTH RIDING OF YORKSHIRE. By J. E. 

Morris. 

BRITTANY. By S. Baring-Gould. 
NORMANDY. By C. Scudamore. 
ROME By C. G. Ellaby. 
SICILY. By F. Hamilton Jackson. 



The Little Library 

With Introductions, Notes, and Photogravure Frontispieces. 
Small Pott 8vo. Each Volume, cloth, is. 6d. net ; leather, zs. 6d. net. 



Anon. ENGLISH LYRICS, A LITTLE 
BOOK OF. 

Austen (Jane). PRIDE AND PREJU- 
DICE. Edited by E.V.LucAS. TwoVols. 



NORTHANGER ABBEY. Edited by E. V. 

Bacon*Francis). THE ESS AYS OF LORD 
BACON. Edited by EDWARD WRIGHT 

[Continued. 



28 



MESSRS. METHUEN'S CATALOGUE 



THE LITTLE LIBRARY continued. 

Barbara (R. H.). THE INGOLDSBY 

LEGENDS. Edited by J. B. ATLAY. 

Two Volumes. 
Barnett (Mr>. P. A.). A LITTLE BOOK 

OF ENGLISH PROSE. 
Beckford (William). THE HISTORY 

OF THE CALIPH VATHEK. Edited 

by E. DENISON Ross. 
Blake (William). SELECTIONS FROM 

WILLIAM BLAKE. Edited by M. 

PEROGINI. 
Borrow (George). LAVENGRO. Edited 

by F. HINDES GROOME. Two Volumes. 
THE ROMANY RYE. Edited by JOHN 

SAMPSON. 
Browning (Robert). SELECTIONS 

FROM THE EARLY POEMS OF 

ROBERT BROWNING. Edited by W. 

HALL GRIFFIN, M.A. 
Canning (George). SELECTIONS FROM 

THE ANTI-JACOBIN: with GEORGE 

CANNING'S additional Poems. Edited by 

LLOYD SANDERS. 
Cowley (Abraham). THE ESSAYS OF 

ABRAHAM COWLEY. Edited by H. C. 

MlNCHIN. 

Crabbe (George). SELECTIONS FROM 

GEORGE CRABBE. Edited by A. C. 

DEANE. 
Cralk (Mrs.). JOHN HALIFAX, 

GENTLEMAN. Edited by ANNE 

MATHESON. Two Volumes. 
Crashaw (Richard). THE ENGLISH 

POEMS OF RICHARD CRASHAW. 

Edited by EDWARD HUTTON. 

Dante (Alighieri). THE INFERNO OF 

DANTE. Translated by H. F. CARY. 

Edited by PAGET TOYNBEE, M.A., D.Liu. 
THE PURGATORIO OF DANTE. Trans- 

lated by H. F. CARY. Edited by PAGET 

TOYNBEE, M.A., D.Litt. 
THE PARADISO OF DANTE. Trans- 
lated by H. F. CARY. Edited by PAGET 

TOYNBEE, M.A., D.Litt. 
Darley (George). SELECTIONS FROM 

THE POEMS OF GEORGE DARLEY. 

Edited by R. A. STREATFEILD. 
Deane (A. C.). A LITTLE BOOK OF 

LIGHT VERSE. 
Dickens (Charles). CHRISTMAS BOOKS. 

Two Volumes. 
Ferrier (Susan). MARRIAGE. Edited 

by A. GOODRICH - FREER and LORD 

IDDBSLEIGH. Two Volumes. 
THE INHERITANCE. Two Volumes. 
Gaskell(Mrs.). CRANFORD. Edited by 

E. V. LUCAS. Second dition. 
Hawthorne (Nathaniel). THE SCARLET 

LETTER. Edited by PERCY DEARMF.R. 
Henderson (T. F.). A LITTLE BOOK 

OF SCOTTISH VERSE. 



Keats (John). POEMS. With an Intro- 

duction by L. BINYON, and Notes by J. 

MASEFIELD. 
Kinglake (A. W.). EOTHEN. With an 

Introduction and Notes. Second Edition. 
Lamb (Charles). ELIA, AND THE 

LAST ESSAYS OF ELIA. Edited by 

E. V. LUCAS. 
Locker (F.). LONDON LYRICS Edited 

by A. D. GODLEY, M.A. A reprint of the 

First Edition. 
Longfellow (H. W.). SELECTIONS 

FROM LONGFELLOW. Edited by 

L. M. FAITHFULL. 
Marvell (Andrew). THE POEMS OF 

ANDREW MARVELL. Edited by E. 

MHtoMJonn). THE MINOR POEMS 
OF JOHN MILTON. Edited by H. C. 
BEECHING, M.A., Canon of Westminster. 

Moir(D. M.). MANSIE WAUCH. Edited 
by T. F. HENDERSON. 

Nichols (J. B. B.X A LITTLE BOOK OF 
ENGLISH SONNETS. 

Rochefoucauld (La). THE MAXIMS OF 
LA ROCHEFOUCAULD. Translated 
by Dean STANHOPE. Edited by G. H. 
POWELL. 

Smith (Horace and James). REJECTED 
ADDRESSES. Edited by A. D. GODLEY, 
M.A. 

Sterne (Laurence). A SENTIMENTAL 
JOURNEY. Edited by H. W. PAUL. 

Tennyson (Alfred, Lord). THE EARLY 
POEMS OF ALFRED, LORD TENNY- 
SON. Edited by J. CHURTON COLLINS, 

IN ME MORI AM. Edited by H. C. 

BEECHING, M.A. 
THE PRINCESS. Edited by ELIZABETH 

WORDSWORTH. 

MAUD. Edited by ELIZABETH WORDSWORTH. 
Tbackeray(W. M.). VANITY FAIR. 

Edited by S. GWYNN. Three Volumes. 
PENDENNIS. Edited by S. GWYNN. 

Three Volumes. 

ESMOND. Edited by S. GWYNN. 
CHRISTMAS BOOKS. Edited by S.GWTNN. 
Vaughan (Henry). THE POEMS OF 

HENRY VAUGHAN. Edited by EDWARD 

HUTTON. 
Walton (Izaak). THE COMPLEAT 

ANGLER. Edited by J. BUCHAN. 
Waterhouse (Mrs. Alfred). A LITTLE 

BOOK OF LIFE AND DEATH. Edited 

by. Ninth Edition. 
Also on Japanese Paper. Leather. $s. 

net. 
Wordsworth (W.). SELECTIONS FROM 

WORDSWORTH. Edited by NOWELL 

C. SMITH. 
Wordsworth (W.) and Coleridge (S. T.). 

LYRICAL BALLADS. Edited by GEORGB 

SAMPSON. 



GENERAL LITERATURE 
The Little Quarto Shakespeare 

Edited by W. J. CRAIG. With Introductions and Notes. 

Pott l6ma. / 40 Volumes. Leather, price is. net each volume. 
Mahogany Revolving Book Case. icw. net. 



Miniature Library 

Reprints in miniature of a few interesting books which have qualities of 
humanity, devotion, or literary genius. 



EUMIRANOR: A Dialogue on Youth. By 
Edward FitzGerald. From the edition pub- 
lished by W. Pickering in 1851. Demy 
$zmo. Leather, zs. net. 

POLONIUS: or Wise Saws and Modern In- 
stances. By Edward FitzGerald. From 
the edition published by W. Pickering m 
1852. Demy ymo. Leather, zs. net. 

THE RUBAIYAT OF OMAR KHAYYAM. By 
Edward FitzGerald. From the ist edition 
of 1859, Third Edition. Leather, is. net. 



THE LIFE OF EDWARD, LORD HERBERT OF 
CHERBURY. Written by himself. From the 
edition printed at Strawberry Hill in the 
year 1764. Medium yzmo. Leather, zs. net. 

THE VISIONS OF DOM FRANCISCO QUEVEDO 
VILLEGAS, Knight of the Order of St. 
James. Made English by R. L. From the 
edition printed for H. Herringman, 1668. 
Leather, zs. net. 

POEMS. By Dora Greenwell. From the edi- 
tion of 1848. Leather, zs. net. 



Fcap. 



Oxford Biographies 

Each volume, cloth, 2s. 6d. net ; leather, 31. 6</. net. 



DANTE ALIGHIERI. By Paget Toynbee, M.A., ! 

D.Litt. With 12 Illustrations. Second 

Edition. 
SAVONAROLA. By E. L. S. Horsburgh, M.A. 

With 12 Illustrations. Second Edition. 
JOHN HOWARD. By E. C. S. Gibson, D.D., 

Bishop of Gloucester. With 12 Illustrations. 
TENNYSON. _By A. C. BENSON, M.A. With 

9 Illustrations. 
WALTER RALEIGH. By I. A. Taylor. With 

12 Illustrations. 
ERASMUS. By E. F. H. Capey. With 12 

Illustrations. 
THE _YouNG PRETENDER. By C. S. Terry. 

With 12 Illustrations. 



ROBERT BURNS. By T. F. Henderson. 

With 12 Illustrations. 
CHATHAM. By A. S. M 'Do wall. With 12 

Illustrations. 
ST. FRANCIS OF Assist. By Anna M. Stod- 

dart. With 16 Illustrations. 
CANNING. By W. Alison Phillips. With 12 

Illustrations. 
BEACONSFIELD. By Walter Sichel. With 12 

Illustrations. 

GOETHE. By H. G. Atkins. With 12 Illus- 
trations. 
FENELON. By Viscount St Cyres. With 

12 Illustrations. 



School Examination Series 

Edited by A. M. M. STEDMAN, M.A. Cr. Zvo. zs. 6d. 



FRENCH EXAMINATION PAPERS. By A. M. 
M. Stedman, M.A. Fourteenth Edition. 
A KEY, issued to Tutors and Private 
Students only to be had on application 
to the Publishers. Fifth Edition. 
Crown 8vo. 6s. net. 

LATIN EXAMINATION PAPERS. By A. M. M. 
Stedman, M.A. Thirteenth Edition. 
KEY (Sixth Edition) issued as above. 

6s. net. 

GREEK EXAMINATION PAPERS. By A. M. M. 
Stedman, M.A. Ninth Edition. 

KEY (Third Edition) issued as above. 

dr. net. 

GBRMAN EXAMINATION PAPERS. By R. J. 
Morich. Sixth Edition. 



KEY (Third Edition) issued as above 
6s. net. 

HISTORY AND GEOGRAPHY EXAMINATION 
PAPERS. By C. H. Spence, M.A. Second 
Edition. 

PHYSICS EXAMINATION PAPERS. By R. E. 
Steel, M.A., F.CS. 

GENERAL KNOWLEDGE EXAMINATION 
PAPERS. By A. M. M. Stedman, M.A. 
Sixth Edition. 

KEY (Fourth Edition) issued as above. 
js. net. 

EXAMINATION PAPERS IN ENGLISH HISTOKT. 
By J. Tail Plowden-Wardlaw, B.A. 



MESSRS. METHUEN'S CATALOGUE 



School Histories 

Illustrated. Crown Bvo. is. 6d. 



A SCHOOL HISTORY OF WARWICKSHIRE. By 

B. C. A. Windle, D.Sc., F.R.S. 
A SCHOOL HISTORY OF SOMERSET. By 

Walter Raymond. 
A SCHOOL HISTORY OF LANCASHIRE, by 

W. E. Rhodes. 

Textbooks 

Edited by G. F. GOODCH1LD, M. 

PRACTICAL MECHANICS. By Sidney H. Wells. 

Third Edition. Cr. Svo. 3*. 6d. 
PRACTICAL PHYSICS. By H. Stroud, D.Sc., 

M.A. Cr. Svo. 35. 6d. 
PRACTICAL CHEMISTRY. Part i. By W. 

French, M.A. Cr, &vo. Fourth Edition. 

is. (>d. Part n. By W. French, M.A., and 

T. H. Boardman, M.A. Cr. &vo. is. 6d. 
TECHNICAL ARITHMETIC AND GEOMETRY. 

By C. T. Millis, M.I.M.E. Cr. 8ve. 

3 s. 6d. 
EXAMPLES IN PHYSICS. By C. E. Jackson, 

B.A. Cr. &vo. 2s. 6d. 



A SCHOOL HISTORY OF SURREY. By H. E. 
Maiden, M.A. 

A SCHOOL HISTORY OF MIDDLESEX. By V. 
G. Plarr and F. W. Walton. 



of Science 

A., B.Sc., and G. R. MILLS, M.A. 

PLANT LIFE, Studies in Garden and School. 
By Horace F. Jones, F.C.S. With 320 
Diagrams. Cr. 8vo. y 6d- 

THE COMPLF.TK SCHOOL CHEMISTRY. By F. 
Oldham, B.A. Illustrated. Cr. 8vo. 

AN ORGANIC CHEMISTRY FOR SCHOOLS AND 
TECHNICAL INSTITUTES. By A. K. Dunstan, 
B.Sc.(Lond.), F.C.S. Illustrated. Cr.Zro. 

ELEMENTARY SCIENCE FOR PUPIL TEACHEKS. 
PHYSICS SECTION. By W. T. dough, 
A.R.C.S. (Lond.), F.C.S. CHEMISTRY 
SECTION. By A. E. Dunstan, B. Sc. (Lond. ), 
F.C.S. With a Plates and 10 Diagrams. 
Cr. Zvo. us. 



Methuen's Simplified French Texts 

Edited by T. R. N. CROFTS, M.A. 
One Shilling each. 



L'HISTOIRE D'UNETULIPE. Adapted by T. R. 

N. Crofts, M.A. 
ABDALLAH. Adapted by J. A. Wilson. 



LA CHANSON DE ROLAND. Adapted by H. 

Rieu, M.A. 
MEMOIKKS DE CADICHON. Adapted by J. F. 

Rhoades. 



Methuen's Standard Library 

In Sixpenny Volumes. 

THE STANDARD LIBRARY is a new series of volumes containing the great classics of the 
world, and particularly the finest works of English literature. All the great masters will be 
represented, either in complete works or in selections. It is the ambition of the publishers to 
place the best books of the Anglo-Saxon race within the reach of every reader, so that the 
series may represent something of the diversity and splendour of our English tongue. The 
characteristics of THE STANDARD LIBRARY are four : i. SOUNDNESS OF TEXT. 2. CHEAPNESS. 
3. CLEARNESS OK TYPE. 4. SIMPLICITY. The books are well printed on good paper at a 
price which on the whole is without parallel in the history of publishing. Each volume con- 
tains from 100 to 250 pages, and is issued in paper covers, Crown 8vo, at Sixpence net, or in 
cloth gilt at One Shilling net. In a few cases long books are issued as Double Volumes 
or as Treble Volumes. 

The following books are ready with the exception of those marked with a t, which denotes 
that the book is nearly ready : 

THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS. By John Bunyan. 



THE MEDITATIONS OF MARCUS AURELIUS. 

The translation is by R. Graves. 
THE NOVELS OF JANE AUSTEN. In 5 volumes. 

VOL. I. Sense and Sensibility. 
ESSAYS AND COUNSELS and THE NEW 

ATLANTIS. By Francis Bacon, Lord 

Verulam. 
RELIGIO MEDICI and URN BURIAL. By 

Sir Thomas Browne. The text has been 

collated by A. R. Waller. 



REFLECTIONS ON THE FKEMCH REVOLUTION. 

By Edmund Burke. 
THE POEMS AND SONGS OF ROBERT BURNS. 

Double Volume. 
THK ANALOGY OF RELIGION, NATURAL AND 

REVEALED. By Joseph Butler, D.D. 
THE POEMS OF THOMAS CHATTERTON. In a 

volumes. 
Vol. i. Miscellaneous Poems. 

[Continued. 



GENERAL LITERATURE 



METHUEN'S STANDARD LIBRARY continued. 

tVol. II. The Rowley Poems. 
ITHE NEW LIFE AND SONNETS. By Dante. 
Translated into English by D, G. Rossetti. 
TOM JONES. By Henry Fielding. Treble Vol. 
CRANFORD. By Mrs. Gaskell. 
THE HISTORY OF THE DECLINE AND FALL OF 
THE ROMAN EMPIRE. By Edward Gibbon. 
In 7 double volumes. 

The Text and Notes have been revised by 
J. B. Bury, Litt.D., but the Appendices of 
the more expensive edition are not given. 
tTHE VICAR OF WAKEFIELD. By Oliver 

Goldsmith. 

THE POEMS ANDPLAYSOFOLIVER GOLDSMITH. 
THE WORKS OP BEN JONSON. 

VOL. i. The Case is Altered. Every Man 
in His Humour. Every Man out of His 
Humour. 

Vol. ii. Cynthia' j Revels; The Poetaster. 

The text has been collated by H. C. Hart. 

THE POEMS OF JOHN KEATS. Double volume. 

The Text has been collated by E. de 

Selincourt. 

ON THE IMITATION OF CHRIST. By Thomas 
a Kempis. 

The translation is by C. Bigg, DD., 
Canon of Christ Church. 
A SERIOUS CAI.L TO A DEVOUT AND HOLY 

LIFE. By William Law. 
THE POEMS OF JOHN MILTON. In 2 volumes 

Vol. i. Paradise Lost. 
THE PROSE WORKS OF JOHN MILTON. 
VOL. i. Eikonoklastes and The Tenure of 

Kings and Magistrates. 
SELECT WORKS OF SIR THOMAS MORE. 

Vol. i. Utopia and Poems. 
THE REPUBLIC OF PLATO. Translated by 



Sydenham and Taylor. Double Volume. 

The translation has been revised by 

W. H. D. Rouse. 
THE LITTLE FLOWERS OF ST. FRANCIS. 

Translated by W. Heywood. 
THE WORKS OF WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE. In 

10 volumes. 
VOL. i. The Tempest ; The Two Gentlemen 

of Verona ; The Merry Wives of Windsor; 

Measure for Measure ; The Comedy of 

Errors. 
VOL. 1 1. Much Ado About Nothing ; Love's 

Labour "s Lost ; A Midsummer Night's 

Dream ; The Merchant of Venice ; As You 

Like It. 
VOL. in. The Taming of the Shrew ; All's 

Well that Ends Well; Twelfth Night ; The 

Winter's Tale. 
Vol. iv. The Life and Death of King John ; 

The Tragedy of King Richard the Second ; 

The First Part of King Henry iv. ; The 

Second Part of King Henry iv. 
Vol. v. The Life of King Henry v. ; The 

First Part of King Henry vi. ; The Second 

Part of King Henry vi. 
Vol. vi. The Third Part of King Henry 

vi. ; The Tragedy of King Richard ill. ; 

The Famous History of the Life of King 

Henry vui. 

THE POEMS OF_PERCY BYSSHE SHELLEY. In 4 
volumes. 
Vol. i. Alastor ; The Daemon of the World ; 

The Revolt of Islam, etc. 
The Text has been revised by C. D. Locock. 
THE LIFE OF NELSON. By Robert Southey. 
THE NATURAL HISTORY AND ANTIQUITIES OF 
SELBORNE. By Gilbert White. 



Textbooks of Technology 

Edited by G. F. GOODCHILD, M.A., B.Sc., and G. R. MILLS, M.A. 
Fully Illustrated. 



How TO MAKE A DRESS. By J. A. E. Wood. 

Fourth Edition. Cr. Svo. is. 6d. 
CARPENTRY AND JOINERY. By F. C. Webber. 

Fifth Edition. Cr. 87/17. 35. 6rf. 
MILLINERY, THEORETICAL AND PRACTICAL. 

By Clare Hill. Third Edition. Cr. Svt>. 

2S. 

AN INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF TEX- 
TILE DESIGN. By Aldred F. Barker. Denty 
&vo. JS. 6d. 

BUILDERS' QUANTITIES. By H. C. Grubb. 
Cr. 8vo. 4S. (>d. 

REPOUSSE METAL WORK. By A. C. Horth. 
Cr. %vo. zs. 6d. 



ELECTRIC LIGHT AND PO\VER_: An Intro- 
duction to the Study of Electrical Engineer- 
ing. By E. E. Brooks, B.Sc. (Lond.). 
Second Master and Instructor of Physics 
and Electrical Engineering, Leicester 
Technical School, and W. H. N. James, 
A.R.C.S., A.I.E.E., Assistant Instructor 
of Electrical Engineering, Manchester 
Municipal Technical School. Cr. 8vo. 4*. dd. 

ENGINEERING WORKSHOP PRACTICE. By 
C. C. Allen, Lecturer on Engineering, 
Municipal Technical Institute, Coventry. 
With many Diagrams. Cr. Bvo. is. 



Handbooks of Theology 

Edited by R. L. OTTLEY, D.D., Professor of Pastoral Theology at Oxford, 
and Canon of Christ Church, Oxford. 

The series is intended, in part, to furnish the clergy and teachers or students of 
Theology with trustworthy Textbooks, adequately representing the present position 



MESSRS. METHUEN'S CATALOGUE 



of the questions dealt with ; in part, to make accessible to the reading public an 
accurate and concise statement of facts and principles in all questions bearing on 
Theology and Religion. 



THE XXXIX. ARTICLES OF THE CHURCH OF 
ENGLAND. Edited by E. C. S. Gibson, 
D.D. Fifth and Cheaper Edition in one 
Volume. Demy Svo. iss. 6d. 

AN INTRODUCTION TO THE HISTORY OF 
RELIGION. By F. B. Jevons. M.A., 
Litt.D. Third Edition. Demy Svo. jos.6d. 

THE DOCTRINE OF THE INCARNATION. By R. 
L. Ottley, D.D. Second and Cheaper 
Edition. Demy Svo. 12.?. fid. 



AN INTRODUCTION TO THE HISTORY OF THE 
CREEDS. By A. E. Burn, .D.D Denty 
Svo. ios. 6d. 

THE PHILOSOPHY OF RELIGION IN ENGLAND 
AND AMERICA. By Alfred Caldecott, D.D. 
Demy Svo. ios. 6a. 

A HISTORY OF EARLY CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE. 
ByJ. F. Bethune-Baker, M.A. Demy Svo. 
ios. 6d. 



The Westminster Commentaries 

General Editor, WALTER LOCK, D.D., Warden of Keble College, 
Dean Ireland's Professor of Exegesis in the University of Oxford. 

The object of each commentary is primarily exegetical, to interpret the author's 
meaning to the present generation. The editors will not deal, except very subor- 
dinately, with questions of textual criticism or philology ; but, taking the English 
text in the Revised Version as their basis, they will try to combine a hearty accept- 
ance of critical principles with loyalty to the Catholic Faith. 



THE BOOK OF GENESIS. Edited with Intro- 
duction and Notes by S. R. Driver, D.D. 
Fifth Edition Demy Svo. ios. 6d. 

THE BOOK OF JOB. Edited by E. C. S. Gibson, 
D.D. Second Edition. Demy Svo. 6s. 

THE ACTS OF THE APOSTLES. Edited by R. 
B. Rackham, M.A. Demy Sao. Third 
Edition, ios. fid. 



THE FIRST EPISTLE OF PAUL THE APOSTLB 
TO THB CORINTHIANS. Edited by H. L. 
Goudge, M.A. Demy Svo. 6s. 

THE EPISTLE OF ST. JAMES. Edited with In- 
troduction and Notes by R. J. Knowling, 
D.D. Demy Svo. 6s. 

THE BOOK OF EZEKIEL. Edited H. A. Red- 
path, M.A., D.Litt. Demy Svo. ios. 6d. 



PART II. FICTION 



Adderley (Hon. and Rev. James), Author 
of 'Stephen Remarx.' BEHOLD THE 
DAYS COME. Cr. Svo. 3*. 6d. 

Albanesi (E. Maria). SUSANNAH AND 
ONE OTHER. Fourth Edition. Cr. 
Svo. 6s. 

THE BLUNDER OF AN INNOCENT. 
Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

CAPRICIOUS CAROLINE. Second Edi- 
tion. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

LOVE AND LOUISA. Second Edition. 
Cr. Svo. 6s. 

PETER, A PARASITE. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

THE BROWN EYES OF MARY. Third 
Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

I KNOW A MAIDEN. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Anstey (F.). Author of 'Vice Versa.' A 
BAYARD FROM BENGAL. Illustrated 
by BERNARD PARTRIDGE. Third Edition. 

Bagot (Richard).' A ROMAN MYSTERY. 

T hird Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
THE PASSPORT. Fourth Ed. Cr.Svo.6s. 
TEMPTATION. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
CASTING OF NETS. Edition. Cr. 

Svo. 6s. 



DONNA DIANA. Edition. Cr. 

LOVE'S PROXY. Edition. Cr. Svo. 

6s. 
Barinjr- Gould (S.). ARMINELL. Fifth 

Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
URITH. Fifth Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
IN THE ROAR OF THE SEA. Seventh 

Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
CHEAP JACK ZITA. Fourth Edition. 

MARGERY *' OF QUETHER. Third 

Edition. Cr. STO. 6s. 
THE QUEEN OF LOVE. Fifth Edition. 

Cr. Svo. 6s. 

JACQUETTA. Third Edition. Cr.Svo. 6s. 
KITTY ALONE. Fifth Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
NOEMI. Illustrated. Fourth Edition. Cr. 

TH*E BROOM -SQUIRE. Illustrated. 

Fifth Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
DARTMOOR IDYLLS. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
THE PENNYCOMEQUICKS. Third 

Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
GUAVAS THE TINNER. Illustrated. 

Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 



FICTION 



33 



BLADYS OF THE STEWPONEY. Illus- 
trated. Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

PABO THE PRIEST. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

WINEFRED. Illustrated. Second Edition. 
Cr. Svo. 6s. 

ROYAL GEORGIE. Illustrated. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

MISS QUILLET. Illustrated. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

CHRIS OF ALL SORTS. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

IN DEWISLAND. Second Edition. Cr. 
Svo. 6s. 

LITTLE TU'PENNY. A New Edition. 6d. 
See also Shilling Novels. 

Barnett (Edith A.). A WILDERNESS 
WINNER. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Barr (James). LAUGHING THROUGH 
A WILDERNESS. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Barr (Robert). IN THE MIDST OF 
ALARMS. Third Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

THE STRONG ARM. Second Edition. 

THE MUTABLE MANY. Third Edition. 
THE COUNTESS TEKLA. Third Edition. 

THE LADY ELECTRA. Second Edition. 

Cr. Svo. 6s. 
THE TEMPESTUOUS PETTICOAT. 

Illustrated. Third Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

See also Shilling Novels and S. Crane. 
Be?bie (Harold). THE ADVENTURES 

OF SIR JOHN SPARROW. Cr. too. 6s. 
Belloc(Hilaire). EMMANUEL BURDEN, 

MERCHANT. With 36 Illustrations by 

G. K. CHESTBRTON. Second Edition. 

Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Benson (E. F.) DODO. Fourth Edition. 

Cr.Sro. 6s. 
THE CAPSINA. Second Edition. Cr.Svo. 

6s. 

See also Shilling Novels. 
Benson (Margaret). SUBJECT TO 

VANITY. Cr. Svo. 3 s. 6d. 
Bretherton (Ralph). THE MILL. Cr. 

Svo. 6s. 
Burton (J. Bloundelle). THE FATE 

OF VALSEC. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
A BRANDED NAME. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

See also Shilling Novels. 
Capes (Bernard), Author of ' The Lake of 

Wine.' THE EXTRAORDINARY CON- 
FESSIONS OF DIANA PLEASE. Third 

Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

A JAY OF ITALY. Fourth Ed. Cr.Svo. 6s. 
LOAVES AND FISHES. Second Edition. 

A ROGUE'S TRAGEDY. Second Edition. 

Charlton (Randall). MAVE. Second Edi- 
tion. Cr. Svt. 6s. 

Chesney (Weatherby). THE TRAGEDY 
OF THE GREAT EMERALD. Cr. 

THE' MYSTERY OF A BUNGALOW. 

Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

See also Shilling Novels. 
Corelli (Marie). A ROMANCE OF TWO 

WORLDS. Twenty-Seventh Edition. Cr. 

Svo. 6s. 



VENDETTA. Twenty-Fourth Edition. Cr. 

Svo. 6s. 
THELMA. Thirty-Fifth Edition. Cr. Svo. 

ARDATH: THE STORY OF A DEAD 
SELF. Seventeenth Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

THE SOUL OF LILITH. Fourteenth Edi- 
tion. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

WORMWOOD. Fifteenth Ed. Cr.Svo. 6s. 

BARABBAS: A DREAM OF THE 
WORLD'S TRAGEDY. Forty-first Edi- 
tion. Cr, Svo. 6s. 

THE SORROWS OF SATAN. Fifty-first 
Edition. Cr. Svo, 6s. 

THE MASTER CHRISTIAN. Tenth 
Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

TEMPORAL POWER: A STUDY IN 
SUPREMACY. iso/A Thousand. Cr. 

GOD'S GOOD MAN: A SIMPLE LOVE 
STORY. Eleventh Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

THE MIGHTY ATOM. T-wenty-sixth Edi- 
tion. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

BOY : a Sketch. Ninth Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

CAMEOS Twelfth Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

JANE. A New Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Cotes (Mrs. Everard). See Sara Jeannette 

Cotterell' (Constance). THE VIRGIN 

AND THE SCALES. Illustrated. Second 

Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Crane (Stephen) and Barr (Robert). 

THE O'RUDDY. CrSvo. 6s. 
Crockett (S. R.), Author of 'The Raiders,' 

etc. LOCHINVAR. Illustrated. Third 

Edition. Cr. Svo. dr. 

THE STANDARD BEARER. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Croker (B. M.). THE OLD CANTON- 
MENT. Cr.Svo. 6s. 

JOHANNA. Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
THE HAPPY VALLEY. Third Edition. 

Cr. Svo. 6s. 
A NINE DAYS' WONDER. Third 

Edition, Cr. Svo. 6s. 
PEGGY OF THE BARTONS. Sixth 

Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
ANGEL. Fourth Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
A STATE SECRET. Third Edition. Cr. 

Svo. 3-r. 6d. 

Crosbic (Mary). DISCIPLES. Cr.Svo. 6s. 
Dawson (A. J). DANIEL WHYTE. 

Cr. Svo. 3-r. 6d. 
Deane (Mary). THE OTHER PAWN. 

Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Doyle (A. Conan), Author of 'Sherlock 

Holmes,' ' The White Company,' etc. 

ROUND THE RED LAMP. Tenth 

Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Duncan (Sara Jeannette) (Mrs. Everard 

Cotes). THOSE DELIGHTFUL 

AMERICANS. Illustrated. ThirdEdition. 

Cr. Svo. 6s. See also Shilling Novels. 
Findlater (J. H.). THE GREEN GRAVES 

OF BALGOWRIE. Fifth Edition. 

THE LADDER TO THE STARS. Second 
Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
See also Shilling Novels. 



34 



MESSRS. METHUEN'S CATALOGUE 



Pindlater (Mary). A NARROW WAY. 

Third Edition. Cr. Svo.. 6s. 
THE ROSE OF JOY. Third Edition. 

A BLIND BIRD'S NEST. With 8 Illus- 
trations. Cr. 8vo. 6s. 
See also Shilling Novels. 

Fitzpatrick (K.) THE WEANS AT 
ROWALLAN. Illustrated. Second Edi- 
tion, Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Fltzstephcn (Gerald). MORE KIN 
THAN KIND. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Francis (M. E.). STEPPING WEST- 
WARD. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Fraser (Mrs. Hugh), Author of The Stolen 
Emperor. 1 THE SLAKING OF THE 
SWORD. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

IN THE SHADOW OF THE LORD. 
Second Edition. Crown Svo. 6s. 

FuIIer-Maitland (Ella), Author of ' The 
DavBoolcofBethiaHardacre.' BLANCHE 
ESMEAD. Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Gates (Eleanor), Author of ' The Biography 
of a Prairie Girl.' THE PLOW- WOMAN. 
Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Gerard (Dorothea), Author of ' Lady Bahy.' 
THE CONQUEST OF LONDON. 
Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

HOLY MATRIMONY. Second Edition. 
Cr. Svo. 6s. 

MADE OF MONEY Cr. Svo. 6s. 

THE BRIDGE OF LIFE. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

THE IMPROBABLE IDYL. Third 
Edition, Cr. Svo. 6s. 
See also Shilling Novels. 

Gissing (George), Author of 'Demos,' 'In 
the Year of Jubilee,' etc. THE TOWN 
TRAVELLER. Second Ed. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

THE CROWN OF LIFE. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

GleJg (Charles). BUNTER'S CRUISE. 
Illustrated. Cr. Svo. y. 6d. 

Hamilton (M.), Author of 'Cut Laurels.' 
THE FIRST CLAIM. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Harraden (Beatrice). IN VARYING 
MOODS. Fourteenth Edition. Cr.Svo. 6s. 

HILDA STRAFFORD and THE REMIT- 
TANCE MAN. Twelfth Edition. Cr. 
Svo. 6s. 

THE SCHOLAR'S DAUGHTER. Fourth 
Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Harrod (F.) (Frances Forbes Robertson). 
THE TAMING OF THE BRUTE. Cr. 
Svo. 6s. 

Herbertson (Agnes U.). PATIENCE 
DEAN. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Hichens (Robert). THE PROPHET OF 
BERKELEY SQUARE. Second Edition. 

TONGUES *OF CONSCIENCE. Seeond 

Editifit. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
FELIX. Fifth Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
THE WOMAN WITH THE FAN. Sixth 

Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
BYEWAYS. Cr. Sve. 6s. 
THE GARDEN OF ALLAH. Fourteenth 

Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
THE BLACK SPANIEL. Cr. Svo. 6s. 



THE CALL OF THE BLOOD. Seventh 

Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Hobbes (John Oliver), Author of 'Robert 

Orange. 1 THE SERIOUS WOOING. 

Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Hope (Anthony). THE GOD IN THE 

CAR. Tenth Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
A CHANGE OF AIR. Sixth Edition. 

Cr. Svo. 6s. 

A MAN OF MARK. Fifth Ed. Cr. to*. 6s. 
THE CHRONICLES OF COUNT AN- 
TONIO. Sixth Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
PHROSO. Illustrated by H. R. MILLAK. 

Sixtk Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
SIMON DALE. Illustrated. Seventh Edition. 

THE KING'S MIRROR. Fourth Edition. 

Cr. Svo. 6s. 

QUISANTE. Fourth Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
THE DOLLY DIALOGUES. Cr. Sv*. 6s. 
A SERVANT OF THE PUBLIC Illus- 
trated. Fourth Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s, 
Hope (Graham), Author of ' A Cardinal and 

his Conscience,' etc., etc. THE LADY 

OF LYTE. Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Hough (Emerson). THE MISSISSIPPI 

BUBBLE. Illustrated. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Mousman (Clemence). THE LIFE OF 

SIR AGLO VALE DEGALIS. Cr. Sro. 6s. 
Hyna (C. J. Cutclif f e), Author of ' Captain 

Kettle.' MR. HORROCKS, PURSER. 

Third Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
PRINCE RUPERT, THE BUCCANEER. 

Illustrated. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Jacobs (W. W.). MANY CARGOES. 

Twenty-Ninth Edition. Cr. Svo. y. 6d. 
SEA URCHINS. Twelfth Edition.. Cr 

Svo. y. 6d. 
A MASTER OF CRAFT Illustrated. 

Seventh Edition. Cr. Svo. y. 6d. 
LIGHT FREIGHTS. Illustrated. Sixth 

Edition. Cr. Svo. is. 6d. 
THE SKIPPER'S WOOING. Eighth Edi- 

tion. Cr. Svo. 3S. 6d. 
DIALSTONE LANE. Illustrated. Seventh 

Edition. Cr. Svo. y. 6d. 
ODD CRAFT. Illustrated. Seventh Edi- 
tion. Cr. Svo. y. 6d. 
AT SUNWICH PORT. Illustrated. 

Seventh Edition. Cr. Svo. y. 6d. 
James (Henry). THE SOFT SIDE. Second 

Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
THE BETTER SORT. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
THE AMBASSADORS. Second Edition. 

THE G^OLDEN BOWL. Third Edition. 

Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Keays (H. A. Mitchell). HE THAT 

EATETH BREAD WITH ME. Cr. 

Kester (Vaughan). THE FORTUNES 

OF THE LANDRAYS. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Lawless (Hon. Emily). WITH ESSEX 

IN IRELAND. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

See also Shilling Novels. 
Le Queux (W.). THE HUNCHBACK OF 

WESTMINSTER. Third Edition. Cr. 

Svo. 6s. 



FICTION 



35 



THE CLOSED BOOK. Third Edition. 

THE* VALLEY OF THE SHADOW. 

Illustrated. Third Edition. Cr. Svo. (>s. 
BEHIND THE THRONE. Third Edition. 

Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Levett-Yeats (S.). ORRAIN. Secant 

Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
London (Jack), Author of ' The Call of the 

Wild,' 'The Sea Wolf,' etc. WHITE 

FANG. Cr. &vo. 6s. 
Lucas (E. V.). LISTENER'S LURE : An 

Oblique Narration. Crown Svo. fourth 

Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Lyall (Edna). DERRICK VAUGHAN, 

NOVELIST. vnd Thousand. Cr. Svo. 

js. 6d. 
M'Carthy (Justin H.), Author of ' If I were 

King.' THE LADY OF LOYALTY 

HOUSE. Illustrated. Third Edition. Cr. 

Svo. 6s. 

THE DRYAD. Second Edition. Cr.Svo. 6s. 
Macdonald (Ronald). THE SEA MAID. 

Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
A HUMAN TRINITY. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Macnaughtan (S.). THE FORTUNE OF 

CHRISTINA MACNAB. Third Edition. 

Malet (Lucas). COLONEL ENDERBY'S 
WIFE. Fourth Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

A COUNSEL OF PERFECTION New 
Edition, Cr. Svo. 6s. 

THE WAGES OF SIN. Fifteenth Edition. 
Cr. Svo. 6s. 

THE CARISSIMA. Fourth Edition. Cr. 

THE'GATELESS BARRIER. Fourth Edi- 

tion. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
THE HISTORY OF SIR RICHARD 

CALM AD Y. Seventh Edition. Cr.Svo. 6s. 

See also Books for Boys and Girls. 
Mann (Mrs. M. E.). OLIVIA'S SUMMER. 

Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
A LOST ESTATE. A New Edition. 

THE PARISH OF HILBY. A New Edition. 

THE PARISH NURSE. Fourth Edition. 

Cr. Svo. 6s. 

GRAN'MA'S JANE. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
MRS. PETER HOWARD. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
A WINTER'S TALE. A New Edition. 

ONE ANOTHER'S BURDENS. A New 

Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
ROSE AT HONEYPOT. Third Ed. Cr. 

Svo. 6s. See also Books for Boys and Girls. 
THE MEMORIES OF RONALD LOVE. 

Cr. Svo. 6s. 
THE EGLAMORE PORTRAITS. Third 

Edition. Cr. Sv. 6s. 
Marriott (Charles), Author of 'The 

Column.' GENEVRA. Second Edition. 

Marsh^Richard). THE TWICKENHAM 
PEERAGE. Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

THE MARQUIS OF PUTNEY. Second 
Edition, Cr. Svo. 6s. 



A DUEL. Cr Svo. 6*. 

IN THE SERVICE OF LOVE. Third 
Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
See also Shilling Novels. 

Mason (A. E. W.), Author of ' The Four 
Feathers, 1 etc. CLEMENTINA. Illus- 
trated. Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Mathers (Helen), Author of ' Comin' thro' 
the Rye.' HONEY. Fourth Edition. 

GRIFF Of GRIFFITHSCOURT. Cr. Svo. 

6s. 
THE FERRYMAN. Second Edition. Cr. 

TALLY-HO! fourth Edition. Cr.Svo. 6s. 

Maxwell (W. B.), Author of 'The Ragged 

Messenger.' VIVIEN. Eighth Edition. 

THE RAGGED MESSENGER. Third 
Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

FABULOUS FANCIES. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

THE GUARDED FLAME. Seventh Edi- 
tion. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

THE COUNTESS OF MAYBURY. A 
Neva Edition. Cr. Sno. 6s. 

ODD LENGTHS. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Meade (L. T.). DRIFT. Second Edition. 
Cr. Svo. 6s. 

RESURGAM. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

VICTORY. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

See also Books for Boys and Girls. 

Melton (R.). CESAR'S WIFE. Second 
Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Meredith (Ellis). HEART OF MY 
HEART. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Miller (Esther). LIVING LIES. Cr. 

'Miss Molly 1 (The Author of). THE 

GREAT RECONCILER. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Mitford (Bertram). THE SIGN OF THE 

SPIDER. Illustrated. Sixth Edition. 

Cr. Svo. $s. 6d. 
IN THE WHIRL OF THE RISING. 

Third Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
THE RED DERELICT. Second Edition. 

Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Montresor (F. F.), Author of 'Into the 

Highways and Hedges.' THE ALIEN. 

Third Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Morrison (Arthur). TALES OF MEAN 

STREETS. Seventh Edition. Cr.Svo. 6s. 
A CHILD OF THE JAGO Fifth Edition. 

TO LONDON TOWN. Second Edition. 

CUNNING MURRELL. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

THE HOLE IN THE WALL. Fourth Edi- 
tion. Cr. &vo. 6s. 

DIVERS VANITIES. Cr. Svo. w. 

Nesbit (E.). (Mrs. E. Bland). THE RED 
HOUSE. Illustrated. Fourth Edition. 
Cr. Svo. 6s. 
See also Shilling Novels. 

Norris (W. E.), Author of 'Major Jim.' 
HARRY AND URSULA. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Olllvant (Alfred). OWD BOB, THE 



GREY DOG OF KENMUIR. 
Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 



Ninth 



MESSRS. METHUEN'S CATALOGUE 



Oppenheim (E. Phillips). MASTER OF 

MEN. Fourth Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Oxenham (John), Author of ' Barbe of 

Grand Bayou/ A WEAVER OF WEBS. 

Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
THE GATE OF THE DESERT. Fourth 

Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
PROFIT AND LOSS. With a Frontispiece 

in photogravure by HAROLD COPPING. 

Fourth Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
THE LONG ROAD. With a Frontispiece 

by HAROLD COPPING. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Pain (Barry). LINDLEY KAYS. Third 

Edition. Cr. Svo, 6s. 
Parker (Gilbert). PIERRE AND HIS 

PEOPLE. Sixth Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
MRS. FALCHION. Fifth Edition. Cr.Svo. 

THE TRANSLATION OF A SAVAGE. 

Third Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
THE TRAIL OF THE SWORD. Illus- 

trated. Ninth Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
WHEN VALMOND CAME TO PONTI AC : 

The Story of a Lost Napoleon. Fifth 

Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
AN ADVENTURER OF THE NORTH. 

The Last Adventures of 'Pretty Pierre.' 

Third Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
THE SEATS OF THE MIGHTY. Illus- 
trated. Fourteenth Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
THE BATTLE OF THE STRONG: a 

Romance of Two Kingdoms. Illustrated. 

Fifth Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
THE POMP OF THE LAVILETTES. 

Second Edition. Cr. Svo. y. 6d. 
Pemberton (Max). THE FOOTSTEPS 

OF A THRONE. Illustrated. Third 

Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
I CROWN THEE KING. With Illustra- 

tions by Frank Dadd and A. Forrestier. 

Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Phillpotts (Eden). LYING PROPHETS. 

Third Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
CHILDREN OF THE MIST. Fifth Edi- 
tion. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
THE HUMAN BOY. With a Frontispiece. 

Fourth Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
SONS OF THE MORNING. Second 

Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

THE RIVER. Third Edition. Cr.Svo. 6s. 
THE AMERICAN PRISONER. Fourth 

Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
THE SECRET WOMAN. Fourth Edition. 

Cr. Svo. 6s. 

KNOCK AT A VENTURE. With a Frontis- 
piece. Third Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
THE PORTREEVE. Fourth Edition. Cr. 

THE POACHER'S WIFE. Sectnd Ediiion. 
Cr. Svo. 6s. 

See also Shilling Novels. 

Ptckthall (Marmaduke). SAfD THE 
FISHERMAN. Fifth Edition. Cr. Svo. 
6s. 

BRENDLE. Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

THE HOUSE OF ISLAM. Third Edi- 
tion. Cr. Svo. 6s. 



Q,' Author of 'Dead Man's Rock.' THE 

WHITE WOLF. Second Edition. Cr. 

Svo. 6s. 
THE MAYOR OF TROY. Fourth Edition. 

Cr. Svo. 6s. 
MERRY GARDEN AND OTHER 

STORIES. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Rawson (Maud Stepney), Author of 'A 

Lady of the Regency.' 'The Labourer's 

Comedy,' etc. THE ENCHANTED 

GARDEN. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Rhys (Grace). THE WOOING OF 

SHEILA. Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
Ridge (W. Pett). LOST PROPERTY. 

Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
ERB. Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
A SON OF THE STATE. Second Edition. 

Cr. Svo. js. 6d. 
A BREAKER OF LAWS. A New Edition. 

Cr. Svo. y. 6d. 
MRS. GALER'S BUSINESS. Illustrated. 

Second Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
SECRETARY TO BAYNE, M.P. Cr. Svo. 

y.6d. 
THE WICKHAMSES. Fourth Edition. 

Roberts*(C. G. D.% THE HEART OF 
THE ANCIENT WOOD. Cr. Svo. 
3 s. 6d. 

Russell (W. Clark). MY DANISH 
SWEETHEART. Illustrated. Fiftk 
Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

HIS ISLAND PRINCESS. Illustrated. 
Second Edition. Cr. 6vo. 6s. 

ABANDONED. Second Edition. Cr. &ve. ds. 
See also Books for Boys and Girls. 

Sergeant (Adeline). BARBARA'S 
MONEY. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

THE PROGRESS OF RACHAEL. Cr. 
Svo. 6s. 

THE MYSTERY OF THE MOAT. Second 
Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

THE COMING OF THE RANDOLPHS. 
Cr. Svo. 6s. 
See also Shilling Novels. 

Shannon. (W.F.) THE MESS DECK. 
Cr. Svo. y. 6d. 
See also Shilling Novels. 

Shelley (Bertha). EN DERBY. Cr.Svo. 6s. 

Sidgwick (Mrs. Alfred), Author of 'Cyn- 
thia's Way.' THE KINSMAN. With 8 
Illustrations by C. E. BROCK. Cr. STO. 6s. 

Sonnichsen (Albert). DEEP-SEA VAGA- 
BONDS. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Sunbury (George). THE HA'PENNY 
MILLIONAIRE. Cr. Svo. y. 6d. 

Thompson (Vance). SPINNERS OF 
LIFE. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Urquhart (M.), A TRAGEDY IN COM 
MONPLACE. Second Ed. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

Waineman (Paul). THE SONG OF THK 
FOREST. Cr. Svo. 6s. 

A HEROINE FROM FINLAND. Cr. 
Svo. 6s. 
See also Shilling Novels. 

Waltz (E. C.). THE ANCIENT LAND- 
MARK : A Kentucky Romance. Cr. Svo. 
6s. 



FICTION 



37 



Watson (H. B. Marriott). ALARUMS 

AND EXCURSIONS. Cr. 8vo. 6s. 
CAPTAIN FORTUNE. Third Eaition. 

TWISTED EGLANTINE. With 8 Illus- 

trations by FRANK CRAIG. Third Edition. 

Cr.too. 6s. 
THE HIGH TOBY. With a Frontispiece. 

Third Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 
A MIDSUMMER DAY'S DREAM. Cr. 

Zvo. 6s. 

See also Shilling Novels. 
Wells (H. O.). THE SEA LADY. Cr. 

Svo. 6j. 
Wey man (Stanley), Author of ' A Gentleman 

of France.' UNDER THE RED ROBE. 

With Illustrations by R. C. WOODVILLE. 

Twentieth Edition. Cr. Svt>. 6s. 
White (Stewart E.), Author of ' The Blazed 

Trail. 1 CONJUROR'S HOUSE. A 

Romance of the Free Trail. Second Edition. 

Cr. &uo. 6s. 
White (Percy). THE SYSTEM. Third 

Edition. Cr. Zvo. 6s. 
THE PATIENT MAN. Second Edition. 

Williams' (Margery). THE BAR. Cr. 

Svo. 6s. 



Williamson (Mrs. C. N.), Author of ' The 
Barnstormers.' THE ADVENTURE 
OF PRINCESS SYLVIA. Second Edi- 
tion. Cr. Svo. 3*. 6d. 

THE WOMAN WHO DARED. Cr. too. 6s. 

THE SEA COULD TELL. Secnd Edition. 
Cr. &pa. 6s. 

THE CASTLE OF THE SHADOWS. 
Third Edition. Cr. too. 6s. 

PAPA. Cr. 6vo. 6s. 

Williamson (C. N. and A. M.). THE 
LIGHTNING CONDUCTOR: Being the 
Romance of a. Motor Car. Illustrated. 
Fifttenth Edition. Cr. Sva. 6s. 

THE PRINCESS PASSES. Illustrated. 
Seventh Edition. Cr. Zvo. 6s. 

MY FRIEND THE CHAUFFEUR. With 
16 Illustrations. Eighth Edition. Cr. 
&vo. 6s. 

THE CAR OF DESTINY AND ITS 
ERRAND IN SPAIN. Third Edition. 
Illustrated. 

LADY BETTY ACROSS THE WATER. 
Sixth Edition. Cr. &vo. 6s. 

Wyllarde (Doll), Author of 'Uriah the 
Hittite.' THE PATHWAY OF THE 
PIONEER (Nous Autres). Fourth 
Edition. Cr. Svo. 6s. 



Methuen's Shilling Novels 
Cr. Svo. Cloth, is. net. 



Author of ' Miss Molly.' THE GREAT 

RECONCILER. 
Balfour (Andrew). VENGEANCE IS 

MINE. 
TO ARMS. 
Baring-Gould (S.). MRS. CURGENVEN 

OF CURGENVEN. 
DOMITIA. 
THE FROBISHERS. 
CHRIS OF ALL SORTS. 
DARTMOOR IDYLLS. 
Barlow (Jane), Author of ' Irish Idylls.' 

FROM THE EAST UNTO THE 

WEST 

A CREEL OF IRISH STORIES. 
THE FOUNDING OF FORTUNES. 
THE LAND OF THE SHAMROCK. 
Barr (Robert). THE VICTORS. 
Bartram (George). THIRTEEN EVEN- 
INGS. 
Benson (E. F.), Author of 'Dodo.' THE 

CAPSINA. 
Bowles (G. Stewart). A STRETCH OFF 

THE LAND. 

Brooke (Emma). THE POET'S CHILD. 
Bullock (Shan F.). THE BARRYS. 
THE CHARMER. 
THE SQUIREEN. 
THE RED LEAGUERS. 
Burton (J. Bloundelle). ACROSS THE 

SALT SEAS. 
THE CLASH OF ARMS. 
DENOUNCED. 
FORTUNE'S MY FOE. 
A BRANDED NAME. 



Capes (Bernard). AT A WINTER'S 

FIRE. 
Chesney (Weatherby). THE BAPTIST 

RING. 

THE BRANDED PRINCE. 
THE FOUNDERED GALLEON. 
JOHN TOPP. 

THE MYSTERY OF A BUNGALOW. 
Clifford (Mrs. W. K.). A FLASH OF 

SUMMER. 

Cobb, Thomas. A CHANGE OF FACE. 
Collingwood (Harry)- THE DOCTOR 

OF THE 'JULIET.' 

Cornford (L. Cope). SONS OF ADVER- 
SITY. 
Cotterell (Constance). THE VIRGIN 

AND THE SCALES. 
Crane (Stephen). WOUNDS IN THE 

RAIN. 
Denny (C. E.). THE ROMANCE OF 

UPFOLD MANOR. 
Dickson (Harris). THE BLACK WOLF'S 

BREED. 
Dickinson (Evelyn). THE SIN OF 

ANGELS. 
*Duncan (Sara J.). THE POOL IN THE 

DESERT. 

A VOYAGE OF CONSOLATION Illus- 
trated. 
Embree (C. F.). A HEART OF FLAME. 

Illus trsted. 
Fenn (d. Manville). AN ELECTRIC 

SPARK. 
A DOUBLE KNOT. 



MESSRS. METHUEN'S CATALOGUE 



Findlater (Jane H.). A DAUGHTER OF 

STRIFE. 

Findlater (Mary). OVER THE HILLS. 
Fitzstephcn (G.). MORE KIN THAN 

KIND. 

Fletcher (J. S.). DAVID MARCH. 
LUCAN THE DREAMER. 
Forrest (R. E.). THE SWORD OF 

AZRAEL. 

Francis (M. E.). MISS ERIN. 
Gallon (Tom). RICKERBY'S FOLLY. 
Gerard (Dorothea). THINGS THAT 

HAVE HAPPENED. 
THE CONQUEST OF LONDON. 
THE SUPREME CRIME. 
Oilchrist (R.Murray). WILLOWBRAKE 
Glanville (Ernest). THE DESPATCH 

RIDER. 

THE LOST REGIMENT. 
THE KLOOF BRIDE. 
THE INCA'S TREASURE. 
Gordon (Julien). MRS. CLYDE. 
WORLD'S PEOPLE. 
Qoaa (C. P.). THE REDEMPTION OF 

DAVID CORSON. 
Gray (E. M 'Queen). MY STEWARD- 

SHIP. 

Hales (A. G.). JAIR THE APOSTATE. 
Hamilton (Lord Ernest). MARY HAMIL- 
TON. 
Harrison (Mrs. Burton). A PRINCESS 

OF THE HILLS. Illustrated. 
Hooper (I.). THE SINGER OF MARLY. 
Hough (Emerson). THE MISSISSIPPI 

BUBBLE. 
Iota* (Mrs. Caffyn). ANNE MAULE- 

VERER 
Jepson (Edgar). THE KEEPERS OF 

THE PEOPLE. 

Keary (C. P.). THE JOURNALIST. 
Kelly (Florence Finch). WITH HOOPS 

OF STEEL. 
Langbridge (V.) and Bourne (C. H.). 

THE VALLEY OF INHERITANCE. 
Lawless (Hon. Emily). MAELCHO. 
Linden (Annie). A WOMAN OF SENTI- 
MENT. 

Lorimer (Norma). JOSIAH'S WIFE. 
Lush (Charles K.). THE AUTOCRATS. 
Macdonell (Anne). THE STORY OF 

TERESA. 
Macgrath (Harold). THE PUPPET 

CROWN. 
Mackie (Pauline Bradford). THE VOICE 

IN THE DESERT. 
Marsh (Richard). THE SEEN AND 

THE UNSEEN. 
GARNERED. 
A METAMORPHOSIS. 
MARVELS AND MYSTERIES. 
BOTH SIDES OF THE VEIL. 
Mayall (J. W.). THE CYNIC AND THE 

SYREN. 

Meade (L. T.). RESURGAM. 
Monkhouse (Allan). LOVE IN A LIFE. 
Moore (Arthur). THE KNIGHT PUNC- 
TILIOUS. 



Nesblt. E. (Mrs. Bland). THE LITER. 

ARY SENSE. 

Morris (W. E.). AN OCTAVE. 
MATTHEW AUSTIN. 
THE DESPOTIC LADY. 
Oliphant(Mrs.). THE LADY'S WALK. 
SIR ROBERT'S FORTUNE. 
THE TWO MARY'S. 
Rendered (M. L.). AN ENGLISHMAN. 
Penny (Mrs. Frank). A MIXED MAR. 

AGE. 
Phillpotts (Eden). THE STRIKING 

HOURS. 
FANCY FREE. 
Pryce (Richard). TIME AND THE 

WOMAN. 
Randall (John). AUNT BETHIA'S 

BUTTON 
Raymond (Walter). FORTUNE'S DAR- 

Rayner (Olive Pratt). ROSALBA. 
Rhys (Grace). THE DIVERTED VIL- 

LAGE. 
Rickert (Edith). OUT OF THE CYPRESS 

SWAMP. 

Roberton(M. H.). A GALLANT QUAKER. 
Russell, (W. Clark). ABANDONED. 
Saunders (Marshall). ROSE A CHAR- 

LITTE. 
Sergeant (Adeline). ACCUSED AND 

ACCUSER. 

BARBARA'S MONEY. 
THE ENTHUSIAST. 
A GREAT LADY. 
THE LOVE THAT OVERCAME. 
THE MASTER OF BEECHWOOD. 
UNDER SUSPICION. 
THE YELLOW DIAMOND. 
THE MYSTERY OF THE MOAT. 
THE PROGRESS OF RACHAEL. 
Shannon (W. p.). JIM TWELVES. 
Stephens (R. N.). AN ENEMY OF THE 

KING. 

Strain (E. H.). ELMSLIE'SDRAG NET. 
Stringer (Arthur). THE SILVER POPPY. 
Stuart (Esme). CHRISTALLA. 
A WOMAN OF FORTY. 
Sutherland (Duchess of). ONE HOUR 

AND THE NEXT. 

Swan (Annie). LOVE GROWN COLD. 
Swift (Benjamin). SORDON. 
SIREN CITY. 
Tanqueray (Mrs. B. M.). THE ROYAL 

QUAKER. 
Thompson (Vance). SPINNERS OF 

Trafford-Taunton (Mrs.E.W.). SILENT 

DOMINION. 

Upward (Allen). ATHELSTANE FORD. 
Waineman (Paul). A HEROINE FROM 

FINLAND. 

BY A FINNISH LAKE. 
Watson (H. B. Marriott). THE SKIRTS 

OF HAPPY CHANCE. 
'Zack.' TALES OF DUNSTABLE WEIR. 



FICTION 



39 



Books for Boys and Girls 

Illustrated. Crown 8vo. 3.?. 6 



THE GETTING WELL OF DOROTHY. By Mrs. 

W. K. Clifford. Second Edition. 
ONLY A GUARD-ROOM DOG. By Edith E. 

Cuthell. 
THE DOCTOR or THE JULIET. By Harry 

Csllingwood. 
LITTLE PETE*. By Lucas, Malet. Stand 

Edititn- 
MASTER ROCKAFELLAR'S VOYAGE. By W. 

Clark Russell. Third Edition. 
THE SECRET OF MADAME DE MONLUC. By 

the Author of " Mdlle. Mori." 



SYD BELTON : Or, the Boy who would not go 

to Sea. By G. Manville Fenn. 
THE RED GRANGE. By Mrs. Molesworth. 
A GIRL OF THE PEOPLE. By L. T. Meade. 

Second Editim. 

HEPSY GIPSY. By L, T. Mead*, is. fuL 
THE HONOURABLE Miss. By L. T. Mead*. 

Second Edition. 
THERE WAS ONCE A PRINCE. By Mrs. M. E. 

Mann. 
WHEN ARNOLD COMES HOME. By Mrs. M. E. 

Mann. 



The Novels of Alexandra Dumas 



ACTS. 

THE ADVENTURES OF CAPTAIN PAMPHILE. 

AMAURY. 

THE BIRD OF FATE. 

THE BLACK TULIP. 

THE CASTLE OF EPPSTEIN. 

CATHERINE BLUM. 

CBCILE. 

THE CHEVALIER D'HARMENTAL. Double 

volume. 
CONSCIENCE 
THE CONVICT'S SON. 
THE CORSICAN BROTHERS ; and OTHO THE 

ARCHER. 

CROP-EARED JACQUOT. 
THE FENCING MASTER. 
FERNANDE. 
GABRIEL LAMBERT. 
GEORGES. 
THE GREAT MASSACRE. Being the first part of 

Queen M argot. 
HENRI DE NAVARRE. Being the second part 

of Queen Margot. 
THE LADY OF MONSOREAU. 



Price 6d. Double Volumes, is. 

LOUISE DE LA VALUERS. Being the first 

Sirt of THE VICOMTE DE BRAGELONNE. 
ouble Volume. 
MA!TRE ADAM. 
THE MAN IN THE IRON MASK. Being 

the second part of THE VICOMTS DK 

BRAGELONNE. Double volume. 
THE MOUTH OF HELL. 
NANON. Double volume. 
PAULINE ; PASCAL BRUNO ; and BONTEKOE. 
PBRE LA RUINB. 
THE PRINCE OK THIEVBS. 
THE REGENT'S DAUGHTER. 
THB REMINISCENCES OF ANTONY. 
ROBIN HOOD. 

THE SNOWBALL and SULTANETTA. 
SYLVANDIRE. 

TALES OF THE SUPERNATURAL. 
THE THREE MUSKETEERS. With 

Introduction by Andrew Lang. 

volume. 

TWENTY YEARS AFTER. Double volume. 
THE WILD DUCK SHOOTER. 
THE WOLF-LEADER. 



a long 
Double 



Albanesi (E. M.). LOVE AND LOUISA. 

Austen (Jane). PRIDE AND PRE- 
JUDICE. 

Bagot (Richard). A ROMAN MYSTERY. 

Baffour (Andrew). BY STROKE OF 
SWORD. 

Baring-Gould (S.). FURZE BLOOM. 

CHEAP JACK ZITA. 

KITTY ALONE. 

URITH. 

THE BROOM SQUIRE. 

IN THE ROAR OF THE SEA. 

NOEMI. 

A BOOK OF FAIRY TALES. Illustrated. 

LITTLE TU'PENNY. 

THE FROBISHERS. 

WINEFRED. 

Barr (Robert). JENNIE BAXTER, 
JOURNALIST. 

IN THE MIDST OF ALARMS. 

THE COUNTESS TEKLA. 



Methuen's Sixpenny Books 

THE MUTABLE MANY. 
Benson (E. F.). DODO. 
Bronte (Charlotte). SHIRLEY. 
Brownell (C. L.). THE HEART OF 

JAPAN. 
Burton (J. Bloundelle). ACROSS THE 

SALT SEAS. 
Caffyn (Mrs)., (' Iota ). ANNE MAULE- 

VERER 
Capes (Bernard). THE LAKE OF 

WINE. 
Clifford (Mrs. W. K.). A FLASH OF 

SUMMER. 

MRS. KEITH'S CRIME. 
Connell (F. Norreys). THE NIGGER 

KNIGHTS. 
Corbett (Julian). A BUSINESS IN 

GREAT WATERS. 
Croker (Mrs. B. M,). PEGGY OF THE 

BARTONS. 
A STATE SECRET. 



MESSRS. METHUEN'S CATALOGUE 



ANGEL. 

JOHANNA. 

Dante (Alighieri). THE VISION OF 
DANTE (Cary). 

Doyle (A. Conan). ROUND THE RED 
LAMP. 

Duncan (Sara Jeannette). A VOYAGE 
OF CONSOLATION 

THOSE DELIGHTFUL AMERICANS. 

Eliot (George). THE MILL ON THE 
FLOSS. 

Plndlater (Jane H.). THE GREEN 
GRAVES OF BALGOWRIE. 

Gallon (Tom). RICKERBY'S FOLLY. 

QaskelKMrs.). CRANFORD. 

MARY BARTON. 

NORTH AND SOUTH. 

Gerard (Dorothea). HOLY MATRI- 
MONY. 

THE CONQUEST OF LONDON. 

MADE OF MONEY. 

Gissing (George). THE TOWN TRAVEL- 
LER. 

THE CROWN OF LIFE. 

Glanville (Ernest). THE INCAS 
TREASURE. 

THE KLOOF BRIDE. 

Gleig (Charles). BUNTER'S CRUISE. 

Urimm (The Brothers). GRIMM'S 
FAIRY TALES. Illustrated. 

Hope (Anthony). A MAN OF MARK. 

A CHANGE OF AIR. 

THE CHRONICLES OF COUNT 
ANTONIO. 

PHROSO. 

THE DOLLY DIALOGUES. 

Hornung (E. W.). DEAD MEN TELL 
NO TALES. 

Ingraham (J. H.). THE THRONE OF 
DAVID. 

Le Queux (W.). THE HUNCHBACK OF 
WESTMINSTER. 

Levett-Yeats (S. K.). THE TRAITOR'S 
WAY. 

Linton (E. Lynn). THE TRUE HIS- 
TORY OF JOSHUA DAVIDSON. 

Lyall (Edna). DERRICK VAUGHAN. 

Malet (Lucas). THE CARISSIMA. 

A COUNSEL OF PERFECTION. 

Mann (Mrs. M. E.). MRS. PETER 
HOWARD. 

A LOST ESTATE. 

THE CEDAR STAR. 

ONE ANOTHER'S BURDENS. 

Marchmont (A. W.). MISER HOAD- 
LEY'S SECRET. 

A MOMENT'S ERROR. 

Marryat (Captain). PETER SIMPLE. 

JACOB FAITHFUL. 

Marsh (Richard). THE TWICKENHAM 
PEERAGE. 

THE GODDESS. 

THE JOSS. 

A METAMORPHOSIS. 



Mason (A. E. W.). CLEMENTINA. 

Mathers (Helen). HONEY. 

GRIFF OF GRIFFITHSCOURT. 

SAM'S SWEETHEART 

Meade (Mrs. L. T.). DRIFT. 

Mitford (Bertram). THE SIGN OF THE 

SPIDER. 

Montresor (F. F.). THE ALIEN. 
Moore (Arthur). THE GAY DECEIVERS. 
Morrison (Arthur). THE HOLE IN 

THE WALL. 

Nesblt(E.). THE RED HOUSE. 
Morris (W. E.). HIS GRACE. 
GILES INGILBY. 
THE CREDIT OF THE COUNTY. 
LORD LEONARD. 
MATTHEW AUSTIN. 
CLARISSA FURIOSA. 
Oliphant (Mrs.). THE LADY'S WALK. 
SIR ROBERT'S FORTUNE. 
THE PRODIGALS. 
Oppenheim (E. Phillips). MASTER OF 

MEN. 
Parker (Gilbert). THE POMP OF THE 

LAVILETTES. 

WHEN VALMONDCAMETO PONTIAC. 
THE TRAIL OF THE SWORD. 
Pemberton (Max). THE FOOTSTEPS 

OF A THRONE. 
I CROWN THEE KING. 
PhiHpotts (Eden). THE HUMAN BOY. 
CHILDREN OF THE MIST. 
*'Q.' THE WHITE WOLF. 
Ridge (W. Pett). A SON OF THE STATE. 
LOST PROPERTY. 
GEORGE AND THE GENERAL. 
Russell {W. Clark). A MARRIAGE AT 

SEA. 

ABANDONED. 

MY DANISH SWEETHEART. 
HIS ISLAND PRINCESS. 
Sergeant (Adeline). THE MASTER OF 

BEECH WOOD. 
BARBARA'S MONEY. 
THE YELLOW DIAMOND. 
THE LOVE THAT OVERCAME 
Surtees (R. S.). HANDLEY CROSS. 

Illustrated. 
MR. SPONGE'S SPORTING TOUR. 

Illustrated. 

ASK MAMMA. Illustrated. 
Valentine (Major E. S.). VELDT AND 

LAAGER. 

Walford (Mrs. L. B.). MR. SMITH. 
COUSINS. 

THE BABY'S GRANDMOTHER. 
Wallace (General Lew). BEN-HUR. 
THE FAIR GOD. 

Watson (H. B. Marrlot). THE ADVEN- 
TURERS. 

Weekes (A. B.). PRISONERS OF WAR. 
Wells (H.G.). THESTOLEN BACILLUS. 
White (Percy). A PASSIONATE 

PILGRIM. 



