!>fo6R 



mwm 



ran 



§«$» 






ALBERT R. MANN 
LIBRARY 



New York State Colleges 

of 

Agriculture and Home Economics 




at 
Cornell University 



TX 715.S66R e " UniVersi,yUbrary 
Rare old receipts, 




3 1924 003 575 465 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003575465 



Rare Old Receipts 



COMPILED BY 

Mrs. W. Hinckle Smith 



THE JOHN C. WINSTON COMPANY 

PHILADELPHIA 

fcAYC 



NOTICE 

'The title and contents of this book are pro- 
tected by Copyright and may not be reprinted 
or published without written permission. 



Copyright 1906, by Jacqueline Harrison Smith. 






T' 



O 



CONTRIBUTORS* 

Mrs. Davis Carneal Anderson. 'Cincinnati O. 

Mrs. Ferree Brinton St. Davids, Pa. 

Mrs. Francis von A. Cabeen Philadelphia, Pa. 

Miss Clara Townley Chase Philadelphia, Pa. 

Mrs. De Courcey May Baltimore, Md. 

Mrs. George A. Dunning West Chester, Pa. 

Mrs. Lewis H. English New Haven, Conn. 

Mrs. Elizabeth Esling Stuttgart, Germany 

Mr. Charles H. A. Esling Stuttgart, Germany 

Mrs. George D. Fowle . Philadelphia, Pa. 

Mrs. John C. Groome Philadelphia, Pa. 

Mrs. Anthony M. Hance Philadelphia, Pa. 

Mrs. James Haughton Bryn Mawr, Pa. 

Mrs. Charles F. Hinckle PhiladelpHia, Pa. 

Mrs. Elisha Howard. ., Providence, R. I. 

Mr. C. Hartman Kuhn — Philadelphia, Pa. 

Mr. John Lambert Philadelphia, Pa. 

Mrs. Charles M. Lea Philadelphia, Pa. 

Mrs. A. D. Lockwood Providence, R. I. 

Mrs. Charles E. Maud Monterey, California 

Mrs. James Mauran Rhodes '. Ardmore, Pa. 

Mr. William Attmore Robinson Philadelphia, Pa. 

*Mrs. Frank Samuel Philadelphia, Pa. 

Mrs. Wm. Carpenter Scott Ardmore, Pa. 

Mr. Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant Philadelphia, Pa. 

Mrs. John Swan Baltimore, Md. 

Mrs. Robert W. Stuart New York City 

'Mrs. Fred'k Sylvester .Haverford, Pa. 

Miss Anne H. Wharton Philadelphia, Pa. 

3 



RARE OLD RECEIPTS. 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE. 

Contributed by Mrs. Edith Lockwood Danieldson Howard, 
Mrs. Elisha Howard, Providence, Rhode Island. 

lyi pounds sugar, 3 eggs, 1% pounds flour, i 1 /* tumblerfuls of 
water, 1% pounds butter; cream butter and sugar together, add one 
egg at a time, beating vigorously; add one-half the flour, then the 
water, and then the rest of the flour. When all are well mixed, add 
1 teaspoonful baking powder. This makes three large round cakes. 

Filling — One cup chopped raisins, 1 cup English walnuts, broken 
up. Mix in boiled icing and spread between cakes, saving enough for 
the top of cake. 

Icing — Two tumblers sugar, 1 tumbler water. Boil till syrup 
will spin like glass, then pour in the whites of 2 eggs well beaten ; beat 
the white till it thickens and put in the nuts and raisins. Flavor cake 
with extract of almond, and icing with 1 teaspoonful of vanilla and 1 
teaspoonful of rose. 

YORKSHIRE MUFFINS. 
Contributed by Mrs. Davis Corneal Anderson, Cincinnati, Ohio. 

3*/2 pounds flour, 1 cake of yeast, % ounce salt, 1 quart tepid 
water. Mix together, beat twenty minutes. Set at night, beat down 
in the morning; let rise again; beat down a second time; turn out on 
bed of flour and with a spoon turn over in the flour. Grease the 
muffin rings ; set rings in a pan, fill with batter and let rise level with 
pan and bake on top of range. 

5 



.& RARE OLD RECEIPTS 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Contributed by Mrs. A. D. Lockwood, Providence, R. I. 

i cup broken butter, 2 cups Porto Rico molasses, i cup brown 
sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls soda, 2 teaspoonfuls yellow ginger, 1 heaping 
teaspoonful salt. Put molasses, sugar, butter, ginger, soda and salt 
together in a porcelain sauce pan and set on the fire, stirring till it 
boils and keeping at the boiling point for five minutes. Pour off into a 
big bowl and begin at once to stir in your flour (enough to make it 
as stiff as can be rolled). Do it quickly, moulding it with your hand 
as it gums too stiff for the spoon. It will not stick. Take what you 
can manage at a time and roll out very thin on a floured bowl. 
Gut it in small rounds, lay in shallow pans and bake immediately. 

THE ORIGINAL FISH HOUSE PUNCH.— 1732. 

The Schuylkill Fishing Company, organized in 1732 as " The 

Colony in Schuylkill." In 1871 " The Colony in Schuylkill " became 

" State in Schuylkill." The club exists to-day, and is generally 

spoken of as the " Fish House." It is at Cornwall's Station, New 

York Division, Penn. R. R., Bucks Co., Pa. 

.Contributed by Agnes P. Roberts Grootne, Mrs. John C. Groome, 

Philadelphia, Pa. 
2 qts. of Jamaica Rum, 1 qt. brandy, 1 qt. lemon juice, 1 gill 
of peach brandy, % of a lb. of loaf sugar, 10 lb. block of ice. Dis- 
solve the sugar in 1 qt. of cold water, add the lemon juice, and place 
in bowl, add the liquor, which has been previously mixed, then the ice, 
and allow to brew for two hours, occasionally ladling the punch over 
.the ice. 

MUFFINS IN RINGS. 

Contributed by Mrs. Lewis H. English, New Haven, Conn. 

Two cups flour, one cup milk, one egg, one tablespoonful sugar, 
•one tablespoonful melted butter, pinch of salt, two teaspoonfuls bak- 
ing powder. Bake on griddle in rings. 



RARE OLD RECEIPTS J 

GRAND BOUILLON. 
Contributed by Mr. C. Hartman Kuhn, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Put into a large pot a piece of beef and the scraps and parings 
of butcher's meat, such as beef, veal, mutton, and add to these car- 
casses, feet, necks, etc., of the poultry and game which have been 
prepared for cooking; season with a few turnips, 6 or 8 carrots, the 
same of onions, a clove or garlic, 3 to 6 cloves, a bunch of pot-herbs, 
and a little salt. 

Put the pot, not quite filled with water, to a slow fire, skim it 
gently, and after every skimming, fill it up with cold water until it 
is perfectly limpid. Upon this Grand Bouillon will depend the ex- 
cellence of your sauces and soups, for, when well prepared, it is the 
mother which is to nourish everything. Let it cook gently many 
hours, then strain it through a napkin dipped in hot water, and put it 
in a cool place to use as required. When used for stews, add a little 
wine, ketchup, soy, etc., to please your taste. The articles to be 
cooked must be browned in a casserole with butter. 

STEWED FISH. 

Contributed by Mr. C. Hartman Kuhn, Philadelphia, Pa. 

2 large fish, J4 lb. butter, 1 bottle of claret, 1 wine glass Madeira 
wine, 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, J^ teacup of catsup, 2 onions sliced, 
a little mace, cloves, nutmeg and parsley. Brown the fish in butter, 
before stewing, and mix the flour and butter before putting them in 
the pan. 

WASHINGTON CAKE. 

Valerian Spencer Fullerton. 

Contributed by Mr. John Lambert, Philadelphia, Pa. 

i$4 lbs. flour, $i lb. butter, ij4 lbs. sugar, 1 pt. milk, 10 eggs, 
1 glass brandy, 1 nutmeg, 12 cloves, 1 lb. currants, 1 lb. raisins, 1 
teaspoon Pearl ash dissolved in brandy. 



8 RARE OLD RECEIPTS 

DELICIOUSLY STICKY SPONGE CAKE. 

Emeline Iungerich Fowle. 

Contributed by Mrs. George D. Fowle, Phila., Pa. 

Take 6 eggs, and their whole weight, in powdered sugar. Break 
them, and keep yolks and whites apart. Take }4 their weight of 
sifted flour, the juice and grated rind of i lemon, unless a stronger 
flavor is desired, then use 2 lemons. Beat the yolks and sugar to- 
gether, until very light. Beat the whites until they are so light and 
dry, that you can turn the dish upside down. 

Add the lemon juice to the yolks and sugar, then half the flour, 
and % of the whites of the eggs. Put them with the yolks and 
sugar, in a bowl, and mix all together with a wooden spoon. Then 
add more flour, but do not use all the flour, if the batter is thick, for 
if too thick, it will make the sponge solid. 

The batter must drop evenly from the spoon. Then stir in 
lightly, on the top, the rest of the whites of the eggs, to make a light 
crust. Bake in a moderate oven twenty or twenty-five minutes. 
Grease the pans thickly with butter, as it makes the crust crisp. If 
the oven is too hot, the cake will puff up, and become dry and brown, 
and the crust will not form. The success depends upon the mixing 
and baking. 

PASTE PUDDING. 

Contributed by Lina S. Ives Brinton, Mrs. Ferree Brinton, 
St. Davids, Pa. 

Place 1 pt. of milk on the fire until at the boiling point. Then, 
take 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, stir it to a paste into the cold milk, 
add it very gradually to the boiled milk, stirring it for a few moments 
to thoroughly cook the paste and sweeten to taste. Take from the 
fire, and when cool add a tablespoonful of butter and 3 beaten eggs 
beaten together, also a generous glass of sherry, or brandy, and 10 
large seeded raisins. Pour into pudding dish lined with rich pie 
paste, and bake until pudding rises in the middle. 



RARE OLD RECEIPTS 9 

" RAMEQUIN." 

Contributed by Augustine Mellet Haughton, Mrs. James Haughton, 
Bryn Mawr, Pa., Daughter of Madame Mellet Craux, La Bourdon- 
nette on Lake Leman. Lausanne, Suisse, 1830. 

y 2 lb. of grated cheese, ij^ pts. milk, 1 tablespoonful flour, 5 
eggs, salt and pepper to taste. Boil the milk, add the flour, let it boil 
up, add the cheese, the eggs (the whites beaten stiff), beat thoroughly, 
strain it, season it and pour on pastry prepared for small tarts. Bake 
in a quick oven. 

BISCOTINS IN CHOCOLAT. 

Contributed by Augustine Mellet Haughton, Mrs. Tames Haughton, 
Bryn Mawr, Pa., Daughter of the Rev. Victor Mellet, Oron, Can- 
ton de Vaud, (Suisse) Vaud, bounded on the south by Lake Leman 
with the Castle of Chillon of historical fame. 

2 whites of eggs, T / 2 lb. sugar, 2 ounces grated chocolate. Beat 
eggs to a stiff froth, add the sugar. When thoroughly mixed, add 
the chocolate. Then lay it by spoonfuls on paper powdered with 
sugar or greased. Put in moderate oven. 

MARLBOROUGH PUDDING. 

Mrs. S. B. Hacker. 

Contributed by Clara Townley Chase, Philadelphia, Pa. 

12 tablespoons strained apples, 12 sugar, 12 wine, 6 melted but- 
ter, 4 beaten eggs, the juice and rind of 1 lemon, y 2 pint milk, y 2 
nutmeg. Bake in a moderate oven. 

The above receipt has always been spoken of in our family as 
the " famous Marlborough Pudding." That is the way I have heard 
my father and grandfather speak of it. So I contribute it to your 
book. It was handed down by my great-aunt, Mrs. S. B. Hacker. 



io RARE OLD RECEIPTS 

ENGLISH APPLE DUMPLINGS. 
Clara Townley Chase, Philadelphia, Pa. 

y 2 lb. suet to i lb. flour, make a paste of this suet to be chopped 
fine, cut apples in thin slices, put inside each dumpling heaping tea- 
spoon of sugar, a little lemon peel and a pinch of grated nutmeg. 
Grease the dish well and place the dumplings all around, spread some 
nice drippings over the dumplings, then pour sugar (light brown) 
thickly on, placing a large quantity in bottom of dish and one pint 
of water, as soon as they commence to brown, begin to baste, doing 
so frequently, serve on flat dish. 

The above receipt is an old English receipt of my grandmoth- 
ers, Mrs. Samuel Hart, who was an English woman. 

TARTE A LA POMPADOUR. 

Charlotte Augusta Brown. 

Contributed by Mrs. Charles M. Lea, Phila., Pa. 

2 cups of minced chicken, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 2 bay- 
leaves, thyme, and the juice of I lemon, salt and pepper to taste. 
Soak macaroni until it softens, place in the bottom of a bowl, lining 
it, fill with the mixture, and cook for one hour, as if it were a cus- 
tard. Serve with rich tomato sauce. 

RECEIPT FOR ORDERLY DOMESTIC MANAGEMENT. 

" Selected." 

Contributed by Mr. Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant, Philada., Pa. 

Let the mistress of the house take 2 lbs. of the very best self- 
control, I j4 lbs. of justice, i lb. of consideration, 5 lbs. of patience, 
and 1 lb. of discipline. Let this be sweetened with charity; let it 
simmer well, and let it be taken daily, — in extreme cases in hourly 
doses — and be kept always on hand; then the domestic wheels will 
run quite smoothly. 



RARE OLD RECEIPTS II 

NORMANDY FISH. 

Grandmother Mrs. Samuel Hart. 

Contributed by Clara Townley Chase, Philadelphia, Pa. 

5 lbs. of fish, various kinds, clear of bone and skin. Put 5 oz. 
of butter into an earthenware dish, and set on the coals, when the but- 
ter is melted, add from the dredger a dessertspoonful of flour, stirring 
the while, then a pinch of grated nutmeg, salt, pepper, black and red, 
but little of the latter, a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley and a 
tablespoonful of mushroom catsup. Then put in your fish, cut in 
pieces as large as two fingers. Pour on the whole a glass of sherry 
or Madiera, and a small wine-glass of good French brandy. Cover 
your dish, put dough all around the edge of cover to keep in steam, 
and then put the dish in a moderate oven. When done, serve in dish 
in which cooked, put in a tablespoonful of Taragon vinegar. 



SUGAR BISCUITS. 

Mrs. Widdifield. 

Contributed by Sarah Biddle Cabeen, Mrs. F. von A. Cabeen, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 

3 lbs. flour, 54 lbs. butter, 1 lb. sugar, 1 qt. of sponge. Rub 
the flour, butter, and sugar together. Then add the sponge with as 
much milk as will make a soft dough. Knead well and replace it in 
the pan to rise. This must be done in the afternoon. 

Next morning knead lightly, make it into small cakes about the 
size of a silver dollar, and y 2 inch in thickness. Place them on slightly 
buttered tins, one inch apart each way, set them in a warm elevated 
place to rise. When light, bake them in a quick oven. When done, 
wash them over with a little water, not having the brush too wet, or 
sprinkle sugar over them if not for immediate use. Let them remain 
on the tins to cool. 



12 RARE OLD RECEIPTS 

RACAHOUT. 

Edward Robinson — 1840. 

Contributed by Mr. John Lambert, Philadelphia, Pa. 

y 2 lb. fine chocolate, % lb. arrow-root, J4 Mb- ground rice, % 
lb. loaf sugar. Reduce the first four articles to a powder and mix 
all together. Mix a dessert-spoonful of the mixture in a little cold 
water right smooth. Pour it into a cup of boiling milk, and boil a 
few minutes. The Racahout should be as thick as rich chocolate. 

JULIENNE SOUP. 

Contributed by Sarah Biddle Cabeen. 

Boil 4 lbs. of beef in 1% gallons of water for 6 hours. Let the 
liquor run through a colander, and strain it, through muslin to clear 
it. Boil in 2 qts. of water for the same time, 4 large carrots, 2 turnips, 
1 head of celery, 4 onions, 1 bunch of pot-herbs. When it begins to 
boil 1 tablespoonful of salt, and pepper to your taste. Then add the 
vegetables to the soup. The carrots are cut in long thin pieces. The 
pot-herbs and celery tops are tied together and removed from the 
soup before serving up. The rest of the vegetables are prepared in 
the usual manner. 

TEA PUNCH. 

Mrs. John- Swan of Baltimore, Md. 

Contributed by Mrs. Anthony M. Hance, Sally Robinson Hance, 

Philadelphia, Pa. 

1 qt. of strong green tea, 1 qt. bottle of Jamaica rum, 3 lbs. of 
cut loaf-sugar, 1 dozen lemons. Pour the boiling tea on rinds of 
lemons, pared very thin, and steep for ten minutes. Put pieces of the 
lemons on the cut loaf-sugar. Pour the tea and rinds over the sugar 
and mix together. When cold put in the rum. About ten minutes 
before serving, fill a bowl with cracked ice, and pour the tea punch 
over it. Note — This quantity is sufficient for 25 moderate drinkers. 



RARE OLD RECEIPTS 13 

MARYLAND BISCUITS. 

Mariana Emory Robinson, " Waverly-on-Chester," Eastern 

Shore of Maryland. 

Contributed by Sally Robinson Hance, Mrs. Anthony M. Hance, 

Philadelphia, Pa. 

iy 2 lbs of flour, y 2 lb. of lard, salt to taste. Rub the lard and 
flour together, mixing thoroughly; then add cold water by degrees 
until it is a stiff dough. Beat on a heavy wooden block, with iron 
pestle, until the dough is full of blisters. Make out in little cakes. 
Prick with a silver fork. Bake in a moderate oven. 

POTATO PUDDING. 

Anna Maria Hemsley Emory, " Poplar Grove," Eastern 
Shore of Maryland, 1780. 

Contributed by Sally Robinson Hance, 

iYz lbs. hot mashed Irish potatoes, 1 lb. granulated sugar, J4 lb. 
butter, 5 eggs (leaving out whites of two), 1 teacup sherry, 1 nut- 
meg (grated). Beat eggs very light, then add the sugar. Mix 
butter with potatoes, while the latter are hot, and gradually add the 
sugar and the eggs; then the seasoning. Bake in open paste. 

BALTIMORE GINGER SNAPS. 

Mrs. De Courcey May of Baltimore. 

Contributed by Sally Robinson Hance, Mrs. Anthony M. Hance, 

Philadelphia, Pa. 

1 qt. of molasses, 8 tablespoonfuls of ginger, 1 teaspoonful of 
soda, 1 cupful of milk, y 2 lb. of butter, J4 lb of lard, %. lb. of brown 
sugar, 1 saltspoonful of salt. Flour sufficient to make a dough to roll 
out, and cut into very thin cakes. Bake in a moderately hot oven. 
The pan need not be greased. 



l 4 RARE OLD RECEIPTS 

MINCE MEAT. 

Anna Maria Hemsley Emory of " Poplar Grove," East Shore 
of Maryland, 1780. 

Contributed by Sally Robinson Hance, Mrs. Anthony M. Hance, 

Philadelphia, Pa. 

xy 2 pts. lean beef (finely chopped), 1 pt. apples (chopped fine), 

1 pt. clean suet (chopped fine), 2 pts. currants, 2 pts. raisins (seed- 
less), 1 lb. citron (cut in shreds), 1 teaspoon allspice, 1 teaspoonful 
mace (powdered), J4 teaspoonful cloves, 1 large nutmeg (grated), 

2 pts. brandy, 2 pts. Madiera to begin with. As the mince meat 
dries, add more. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Mariana Emory Robinson, " Waverly-on-Chester," Eastern 
Shore of Maryland. 

Contributed by Sally Robinson Hance, Mrs. Anthony M. Hance, 

Philadelphia, Pa. 

y 2 gal. oysters (well drained), >£ gal. fresh milk, 1 teaspoonful 
onion (chopped very fine), J4 lb. butter rolled in 1 tablespoonful of 
flour, salt and red pepper to taste. Put the milk on and let it get very 
hot, then put in the butter and flour and let the milk boil, keep stirring 
all the time, and then put in the oysters. As soon as they curl up they 
are done. Add the salt later and stir continually after the milk gets 
hot. 

GINGERBREAD. 

Mrs. F. von A. Cabeen. 

Contributed by Sarah Biddle Cabeen, Philadelphia, Pa. 

3 oz. ginger, ^ teaspoonful of cloves, cinnamon and allspice, 54 
lb. brown sugar, 1 lb. butter, 1 qt. molasses, 3 lbs. flour, rolled and 
baked. 



RARE OLD RECEIPTS 15 

CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING. 

Anna Maria Hemsley Emory, " Poplar Grove," 1780. 

Contributed by Sally Robinson Hance, Mrs. Anthony M. Hance, 

Philadelphia, Pa. 

2 pts of grated bread, 1 pt. of fresh milk, 2 pts. of currants, 2 
pts. of stoned raisins, % lb. of citron (cut fine), 6 tablespoonfuls of 
brown sugar, 6 eggs, beaten light, 1 teaspoonful of soda, dissolved 
in hot water. Mix all together. Boil three hours in a pudding bag 
which has been scalded and well floured. 

NEW ENGLISH JOHNNY CAKES. 

Contributed by Emily Borie Rhodes, Mrs. James Mauran Rhodes, 

Ardmore, Pa. 

These are delicious. 

A cup of granulated white corn meal, a good pinch of salt, a 
teaspoonful of sugar well mixed together. Scald with very boiling 
water, and let it stand for one-half hour. Thin the batter with milk 
to consistency of griddle cake batter — have the griddle very hot — 
cook like griddle cakes, and when finished, put them in a tin and slip 
into a very hot oven to puff them. 

CREAM CHEESE. 

Contributed by Emily Borie Rhodes, Mrs. James Mauran Rhodes, 

Ardmore, Pa. 

1 pint cream, 1 pint milk. Mix together with 2 teaspoonfuls 
of liquid rennet, set in pan of hot water until it is a thick curd. 
Have a small mould, put a piece of Swiss muslin into it, and into this 
put the curd. Let it remain 8 hours, then put a thin piece of board, 
the size of mould, on top, with a lb. weight on it to press it well. 
Let this remain one day, and then take cheese out, put in a linen 
cloth. Change the cloth frequently. In four days it will be ready 
to eat. 



16 RARE OLD RECEIPTS 

DROPPED CODFISH BALLS. 

Contributed by Ella Stockton Sylvester, Mrs. Fred'k Sylvester, 

Haverford, Pa. 

I pt. bowl of raw codfish, 2 heaping bowlfuls of pared potatoes. 
(Let the potatoes be undersize.) 2 eggs, butter the size of an egg, 
and a little pepper. Pick the fish very fine and measure lightly into 
the bowl. Put the potatoes in the boiler, the fish on top of them, 
cover with boiling water and boil half an hour. Draw off all the 
water, mash the fish and potatoes together until fine and light, then 
add butter, pepper and eggs well beaten. Have a deep pan of boiling 
fat, dip a tablespoon in it and take up a spoonful of the mixture. 
Drop into the boiling fat and fry until brown (about ten minutes). 
The spoon should be dipped in the hot fat every time you take a 
spoonful of the mixture. 

NEW ENGLAND GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

Contributed by Emily Borie Rhodes, Mrs. James Mauran Rhodes, 

Ardmore, Pa. 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter, 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 2 eggs, 1 
cup of milk, 1 cup of Graham flour, }£ of a cup of wheat flour, salt 
to taste, 3 teaspoonfuls of Royal Baking powder. Cream the butter 
and sugar and add the eggs well beaten. Add milk, then add other 
ingredients (well mixed together and sifted). Beat all well together 
and bake in hot buttered gem pans for 20 minutes. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

Contributed by Sarah Biddle Cabeen, Philadelphia, Pa. 

1 qt. of cream sweetened to your taste, (about 8 tablespoons of 
sugar to 1 qt. of cream). Then boil 4 strips of gelatine in 2 common 
tea-cups of water with a vanilla bean. Let it boil till reduced to 1 
tea-cup full, strain it, and when lukewarm, stir it quickly into the 
cream and pour it into the mould. 



RARE OLD RECEIPTS 17 

AN OLD PHILADELPHIA FAMILY RECEIPT FOR 
CHEESE CAKE. 

Entirely From Simple Ingredients. 

Contributed by Mr. Charles H. A. Esling, Stuttgart, Germany. 

Two ladles full of cottage" cheese. Mash the cheese fine with a 
spoon, six eggs, beat the whites and yolks separately, mix the yolks 
in first and then the whites, one pint of cream or a little less, half a 
nutmeg or a little more, cinnamon to suit taste, but enough to make 
the mixture rather brown, sugar to taste, brandy, a good quantity. 
Say about half a teacupful. Cover the bottom and sides of a square 
oblong baking pan with the dough, which ought to be quite thin. 
Pour the concoction into the dough and bake until brown. Let it 
stand until it becomes firm. Then cut in squares. 

NEW ENGLAND DROP CAKES. 

Contributed by Emily Borie Rhodes, Mrs. James Mauran Rhodes, 

Ardmore, Pa. 
1 Y-2. cups of rye flour, 1 cup of corn meal, jj^ cup of wheat flour, 
2 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls of molasses, salt to taste, 1 teaspoonful of 
soda, dissolved in a little hot water, i 1 /* cups of sour milk. Mix all 
together, and drop from a dessertspoon into deep, boiling lard. 
This is enough for eight people. These are delicious. 

CURRANT SANDWICHES. 

Contributed by Mrs, Elizabeth Esling, Stuttgart, Germany. 

A pleasant and healthy variation of the meat, jam, tgg, or 
water-cress sandwich, may be made with the assistance of the nu- 
tritious currant. Take a teacupful of currants and rub them in a 
cloth, then butter thickly some thin slices of bread. Cover the but- 
tered bread all over with currants, sift a very little castor sugar over 
them, and make into sandwiches. This satisfying little novelty is 
wonderfully appreciated. 



18 RARE OLD RECEIPTS 

BOULLI BEEF. 

Contributed by Mr. C. Hartman Kuhn, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Put the thick end of a brisket of beef into a kettle and cover it 
over with water. Let it boil for 2 hours, then stew it close by the 
fireside for 6 hours or more, and fill up the kettle as the water falls. 
Put in with the beef some turnips cut in little balls, some carrots and 
some celery cut in pieces. About an hour before it is done take out 
as much broth as will fill your soup dish, and boil in it for one hour, 
turnips, carrots and celery, cut in rounds or squares. 

PERFECTION CORN PUDDING. 

Contributed by Emily Borie Rhodes, Mrs. James Mauran Rhodes, 

Ardmore, Pa. 

Grate the corn into a pudding dish, add a teaspoonful of salt, 
and dessertspoonful of sugar. Mix well and put small lumps of 
butter on the top. Bake in oven about }% of an hour until well 
browned. If corn is very old, add cream to it. This is delicious. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

Laura Hazard Robinson, 1826. 

Contributed by William Attmore Robinson, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Scald a sufficient quantity of corn meal, add a little salt, then 
mix with milk until it is of such a consistency that it may be put 
on a board as a flat cake, then cover with a little thick cream so that 
it will not burn, and bake before an open fire. 

SALLY MORGAN'S GINGERBREAD. 

Contributed by Mr. C. Hartman Kuhn, Philadelphia, Pa. 

4 lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of butter, 1 lb. of sugar, 1 qt. of molasses, 
Yl lb. ginger, spice, if agreeable. 



RARE OLD RECEIPTS 19 

EVE'S PUDDING. 

"Aunt Mary." 

Contributed by Mr. C. Hartman Kuhn, Philadelphia, Pa. 

If you want a good pudding, mind what you are taught, 
Take of eggs six in number when bought for a groat, 
The fruit with which Eve her husband did cozen, 
Well pared and well chopped, at least half a dozen, 
Six ounces of bread, let Moll eat the crust, 
And crumble the rest, as fine as the dust, 
Six ounces of currants from the stems you must sort, 
Lest you break out your teeth and spoil all the sport, 
Six ounces of sugar won't make it too sweet, 
Some salt and some nutmeg will make it complete, 
Three hours let it boil, without any flutter, 
But Adam won't like it without wine and butter. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

Contributed by Sarah Biddle Cabeen. 

8 eggs, leaving out the whites of four, the weight of 8 eggs in 
sugar, of 6 in Indian meal, 1 nutmeg, y 2 lb. of butter melted and! 
poured in without the sediment. 

ORANGE SOUFFLE. 

Contributed by Mary B. Snowden Samuel, Mrs. Frank Samuel, 

Philadelphia, Pa. 

Empty carefully as many oranges as there are persons to be 
served, being careful not to scrape the skin at all thin. Make a white 
souffle. Whites of 5 eggs, yolk of one. Beat separately, making 
the whites very sweet by stirring in pulverized sugar. Flavor with 
the orange juice, beating it in with the yolk. Mix lightly, fill the 
skins overflowing with this, and bake for ten minutes in a moderate 
oven. This is a very pretty dessert for luncheon. 



20 RARE OLD RECEIPTS 

MY OWN FROZEN PUDDING, AND A GOOD ONE. 

Contributed by Mary B. Snowden Samuel, Mrs. Frank Samuel, 

Philadelphia, Pa. 

Make a very rich chocolate ice cream, first scalding the cream 

an hour before you are going to use it. When ice cream is made 

have ready i lb. of French candied fruit chopped small for each qt. 

of cream. Gages, cherries, citron, and Sultana raisins. Mix these 

thoroughly in the ice cream. Put in a mold, and pack in the freezer. 

Do not let it remain too long as the fruit will become frozen too stiff. 

Serve this with a light sauce flavored either with brandy or rum. 

Sherry will not do. 

BRIDE'S CAKE. 
Receipt of More Than 80 Years Ago, from Laura Hazard Robinson, 

and Contributed by Mr. William Attmore Robinson, Phila. 

1% lbs. of butter, 1 lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of flour, 13 eggs, 3 lbs. 
of raisins, 2 lbs. of currants, 1 lb. of citron, 1 wineglass of wine, 
2 wineglasses of brandy, 1 grated nutmeg, 2 teaspoonfuls of cinna- 
mon, 1 teaspoonful of mace and cloves mixed, 1 cup of molasses. 

ICING FOR FRUIT CAKE. 
Contributed by Mrs. James Mauran Rhodes. 
1 cup of sugar scalded with boiling water and flavored with 
vanilla. This is very good. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Anna Maria Hemsley Emory. 

" Poplar Grove," 1780. 

Contributed by Sally Robinson Hance, Mrs. Anthony M. Hance, 

Philadelphia, Pa. 

4 eggs, leaving out half the whites, 1 pt. of stewed apples, y 2 lb. 

of butter, teacup and a half of grated bread, the grated rind of two 

lemons and pieces of one. Sugar to taste. Bake in paste. Use 

the whites as a meringue. 



RARE OLD RECEIPTS 21 

CHOCOLATE WAFERS. 

Contributed by Ella Stockton Sylvester, Mrs. Fred'k Sylvester, 

Haverford, Pa. 

The whites of 6 eggs, y 2 cake of Baker's chocolate, Y$ lb. pul- 
verized sugar, Yi, lb. flour. Beat the eggs and sugar together very 
light, then slowly add the grated chocolate and lastly stir in the sifted 
flour. Drop in tiny spoonfuls on the buttered pan, (not close to- 
gether, as they spread) and bake slowly in a very moderate oven, 
so they will dry, not brown. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

Contributed by Mr. C. Hartman Kuhn, Philadelphia, Pa. 

2 tablespoon fuls of butter, melted, 1 large tablespoonful of sifted 
flour, 1 cup melted cheese, yolks of three eggs, beaten light, 1 cup of 
milk, 1 saltspoonful of salt, whites of three eggs beaten light. First 
melt the butter, then sift or smooth in the flour, then add the milk, 
then the seasoning. Cook that for five minutes, then add the cheese 
and yolks of eggs, stirring all the time. Set this away to cool, then 
add the whites of eggs, and stir well. Now put in a baking dish, 
in not too quick an oven. When finished, it must not stand a minute. 

MENUDO. 

Contributed by Mr. C. Hartman Kuhn, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Tripe, after being cleaned must be boiled in water with salt in 
it. When the water boils, it must be poured off and fresh water 
with salt, a bunch of mint, a piece of onion, ham and chorizo (a 
species of sausage) put into the pot.' The ham and chorizo must be 
taken out as soon as they are half boiled, some tomatoes must be 
fried with lard and then thrown into the pot together with the ham 
and chorizo, red pepper, cinnamon, cloves and garlic are then to be 
added to season it. The tripe ought to be boiled before the other 
ingredients are put in. 



22 RARE OLD RECEIPTS 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Contributed by Emily Borie Rhodes, Mrs. James Mauran Rhodes, 

Ardmore, Pa. 

3 cups of rye flour, 2 cups of corn meal, i l / 2 cups of wheat flour, 
1 cup of Porto Rican molasses, iy 2 pints of milk, a pinch of salt, I 
teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a little hot water. Mix well to- 
gether, put in a very tight mold, and boil 4 hours — serve hot. This 
is very good. 

CORN SLAPS. 

Mariana Emory Robinson, " Waverly-on-Chester," E. Shore 

of Maryland. 

Contributed by Sally Robinson Hance, Mrs. Anthony M. Hance, 

Philadelphia, Pa. 

1 pt. of white southern corn meal, 2 eggs, beaten very light, 
scald the meal into a stiff dough, add the eggs, thin with fresh milk 
until very thin. 1 tablespoon of flour prevents it from sticking. 

GRAHAM GEM. 

Contributed by Miss Anne H. Wharton, Philadelphia, Pa. 

9 tablespoonfuls Graham flour, 2 teaspoonfuls Royal baking 
powder, 1 teaspoonful sugar, J^ teaspoonful salt. Stir in enough 
water to make the mixture a proper consistency to drop into tins. 
Beat hard and drop into well-heated tins, and bake in a quick oven. 
Crisp and delicious. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Contributed by Sarah Biddle Cabeen, Philadelphia. 

1 doz. eggs — the weight of the eggs in sugar and half of the 
weight in flour, 1 lemon, the rind grated and juice. Beat the yolks 
of the eggs and sugar together. Add the whites, lightly beaten and 
stir in the flour. Then bake at once. 



RARE OLD RECEIPTS 23 

CAVITCHED FISH. 

Contributed by Mr. C. Hartman Kuhn, Philadelphia, Pa. 

To 1 dozen large perch, cleaned and wiped very dry, seasoned 
well with cayenne pepper, black pepper and salt, and fried in sweet 
oil to a light brown color, add a few onions sliced and fried brown. 
When the fish are perfectly cold, put them in a deep vessel and strew 
the onions over them. Take 1 qt. of good vinegar, 2 qts. of the 
liquor of the boiled fish, mace, cloves, whole black pepper, a clove 
of garlic, cayenne pepper, half a teacup of mixed mustard, the same 
quantity of catsup and of sweet oil, and as much salt as will make 
the mixture palatable. Boil the whole till it tastes of the spices, and 
pour it on the fish, either hot or cold, taking care to have the fish 
covered. Taste the liquor after the fish have been in it a day or two, 
as it may probably require additional seasoning. 

BELL FRITTERS. 

Mrs. Besonet. 

Contributed by Mr. C. Hartman Kuhn, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Take 1 qt. of new milk and boil it with a little salt, stir in the 
flour till it is quite thick and will take no more. Then let it stand 
till it is cool, then break in 8 eggs, put some lard into a pot, let it 
boil, and then take a tablespoonful of the batter and drop in, let it 
stay until it puffs out. 

DELICIOUS POTATO BISCUIT. 

Miss Darlington. 

Contributed by Mrs. George A. Dunning, West Chester, Pa. 

1 qt. mashed potatoes, 1 qt. milk, 1 tablespoonful butter or lard, 
'^2 cup sugar, 1 teaspoonful baking soda, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 yeast 
cake. For use at night, set at 10 A. M., remix at 3 P. M., roll out 
in pan, let rise and bake 20 minutes just before serving. 



24 RARE OLD RECEIPTS 

BRIOCHE. 

Sent by Mrs. Robert W. Stuart, New York City, N. Y. 

Contributed by Cornelia E. Paulmier Scott, 

Mrs. Wm. Carpenter Scott, " Dipple," Ardmore, Pa. 

I cup of compressed yeast, % cup of lukewarm water, I qt. of 

flour, 24 lb. of butter, 7 eggs, y 2 teaspoon of salt, 2 teaspoons of 

sugar. Dissolve the yeast cake in % cup of warm water. Add 

enough flour to make a soft ball of paste well mixed. Drop this ball 

in a pan of warm water, not hot. Cover and set in warm place 

about 1 hour to rise. Put the rest of flour in bowl, make a well 

in center, into this put butter, salt, sugar, and 4 eggs. 

Work them well together with hand, gradually using flour and 
adding 2 more eggs, one at a time. Work well together till it loses 
all stickiness. When leaven is light, lift it out of water with a skim- 
mer and place it with the dough. Work well together. Add one 
egg, the last. Beat with hand a long time, the longer the better, for 
it makes it firmer. Put the paste in bowl. Let it rise four or five 
hours. Beat down again and put it on ice for 12 or 24 hours. 
Handle quickly when taken from ice. 

MARYLAND BISCUIT. 
Contributed by Sally M. Robinson Hance, Mrs. Anthony M. Hance, 

Philadelphia, Pa. 
\Yz lbs. of the best flour, 4 oz. of lard, "fi teaspoonful of salt. 
Mix with cold water just as stiff as possible. Put the dough on a 
board and knead until it is perfectly pliable and makes a popping 
sound under your hands from the air bubbles breaking in it, and until 
you can pull it down in long thin strips. These tests are infallible, 
but the dough has to be worked hard and long. Break off into pieces 
about the size of an egg. Mould them into round balls, about ^ 
in. thick, flatten with a rolling pin. Stick through 5 or 6 times with 
a fork. The oven must be well heated but not too hot. Bake ^2 
hour. 



RARE OLD RECEIPTS 25] 

BEAUVILLING POTATOES. 

Contributed by Mr. C. Hartman Kuhn, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Wash clean the quantity of potatoes you require, boil them, and 
when they are done, drain them in a colander, peel them, cut them 
in small round pieces, or thin slices; put into a stewpan some butter, 
parsley chopped up, salt and whole pepper. Add to that the po- 
tatoes. Place the stewpan upon a fire, stir them up as the butter 
melts, and in case it is required, add a little bouillon or water. On 
dishing add the juice of a lemon, or a dash of verjuice. 

CRAB SOUP. 

Contributed by Sally M. Robinson Hance, Mrs. Anthony M. Hance, 

Philadelphia, Pa. 

1 dozen good sized crabs, 1 qt. of new milk, 1 pt. of pure cream, 
%. lb. of best butter, ]/ 2 teaspoonful of finely chopped onions, salt and 
paprika to taste. Put milk and cream in a double boiler, and bring 
to a boil. Rub butter with a scant tablespoonful of flour, and add 
to it also the chopped onions. When it comes to a boil, put in crab 
meat and pepper and boil ten or fifteen minutes. Add salt first before 
taking off the fire. 

BISCUIT. 

Sent by Mrs. Robert W. Stuart, New York City, N. Y. 

Contributed by Cornelia E. Paulmier Scott, Mrs. Wm. Carpenter Scott, 
" Dipple," Ardmore, Pa. 
Make a syrup of 1 cup of sugar, ^ cup of water. Beat the 
yolks of 4 eggs, add £4 cup of syrup, and J^ cup of cream. Place the 
mixture on fire. Stir till it coats spoon. Place it on ice and beat 
till it is stiff and light. Flavor with vanilla bean or Maraschino, 
when taken from off fire. Fold in lightly a pt. of whipped cream. 
Put the mixture in a mold and freeze. It is improved by using some 
praline powder. 



26 HARE OLD RECEIPTS 

CARAMEL CUSTARD. 

Sent by Mrs. Robert W. Stuart, New York City, N. Y. 

Contributed by Cornelia E. Paulmier Scott, Mrs. Wm. Carpenter Scott, 
" Dipple," Ardmore, Pa. 

1 qt. of milk, 5 eggs, 1 small teaspoon of sugar to each egg. 
Put a cupful of sugar in a saucepan with a little water. Let it cook 
until it becomes a dark brown and is very thick. Cover mould with 
this and let it harden, keeping out two or three tablespoonfuls to flavor 
the custard. Beat eggs, sugar and a spoonful of vanilla together, add 
milk, all but about Yz a cupful, to which add the caramel for flavor- 
ing. Put this milk with caramel in saucepan. Boil it to give it a 
flavor, add eggs, milk, etc. Put all in the mould and bake in a pan 
of water. To tell when sufficiently cooked put a knife in, and when 
the custard does not adhere, it is cooked. 5 tablespoonfuls of sugar 
makes it quite sweet, so the cook should judge partly how much to 
use. 

FRUIT CAKE FROM NANTUCKET. 

Contributed by Emily Borie Rhodes, Mrs. James Mauran Rhodes, 

Ardmore, Pa. 

1 lb. sugar, 1 lb. currants, 1 lb. flour, J4 lb. citron, ij^ lbs. butter, 
1 lb. raisins, 4 eggs, 1 cup of milk, 1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved 
in the milk, spices to taste. 

GERMAN SALAD DRESSING FOR POTATO SALAD OR 

COLD SLAW. 

Contributed by Mrs. George A. Dunning, West Chester, Pa. 

1 egg, 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar, 1 teaspoonful butter, J4 tea- 
spoonful mustard, 1 teaspoonful salt, 2 teaspoonfuls sugar, y 2 cup of 
cream, or 1 cup of milk, 2 teaspoonfuls flour, a good shake of red 
pepper. Put vinegar and butter together, and heat. Then add other 
ingredients, stir until thick and let cool. 



RARE OLD RECEIPTS 27 

INDIAN CURRY. 

These receipts were brought from India over fifty years ago by 
the Rev. John Prunate Maud. 

Contributed by Louise Catherwood Maud, Mrs. Charles E. Maud, 
Monterey, California. 

Melt one heaping tablespoon of butter in a saucepan. Stir in a 
heaping tablespoon of flour, and when smooth, add slowly a cup of 
warm gravy. Mix a tablespoon of curry powder in a little cold milk 
or gravy, and add a half a cup of cream. It should thicken and 
become quite smooth. When done, season, and just before remov- 
ing from the fire put in a tablespoon of port wine. Curry should 
never stand a moment, but should at once be poured over the meat 
or fish it is intended for. It should always be accompanied by boiled 
rice and chutney. 

GREEN PEA SOUP WITH WHIPPED CREAM. 

Martha G. Binney Dunning. 

Contributed by Mrs. George A. Dunning, West Chester, Pa. 

1 qt. fresh green peas, shelled, 1 qt. milk, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 
yi tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. Boil the peas 
until very soft and mash through colander. Boil the milk in double 
boiler, rub the butter and flour together, add the milk, add the peas, 
boil fifteen minutes, add 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, and serve in 
cups with whipped cream. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

Mrs. Amos Binney, Boston, Mass. 

Contributed by Mrs. George A. Dunning, West Chester, Pa. 

Scald the peaches, then rub with a soft cloth to remove the 
down. For one peck peaches take 3 pts. vinegar, 3 pts. water, 8 lbs. 
sugar and allspice, cloves and mace to taste. Let it come to a boil. 
Put in the peaches and cook until tender. 



28 RARE OLD RECEIPTS 

CHUTNEY. 

Contributed by Louise Catherwood Maud, Mrs. Charles E. Maud, 

Monterey, Calif. 

iy 2 lbs. brown sugar, Y$ lb. salt, i tablespoonful chopped gar- 
lic, % lb. onions, 24 lb. powdered ginger, %. lb. dried chillies, 24 lb. 
mustard seed, 24 lb. stoned raisins, 2 bottles best vinegar, 30 large 
apples (or some people prefer bananas or peaches.) 

Soak the mustard seed in a pt. of vinegar. Chop onions, chillies, 
garlic and raisins. Peel and slice fruit and boil with sugar and the 
rest of the vinegar. When the fruit is cold, mix all together, and 
put into airtight jars and set away for at least three months. 

COOKIES. 

Sent by, Mrs. Robert W. Stuart, New York City, N. Y. 

Contributed by Cornelia E. Paulmier Scott, Mrs. Wm. Carpenter Scott, 
" Dipple," Ardmore, Pa. 

1 scant cup of butter, 1 heaping cup of sugar, 2 eggs, beaten 
yolks and whites together, 1 tablespoon of water. Flour just enough 
to make a dough — not too stiff. Roll out thin, then cut out. Blanch 
almonds and stick four halves on the top of each cake, sprinkle with 
cinnamon and sugar, and bake. Sometimes put in caraway seeds, 
rather than the almonds and cinnamon. 

NELLIE'S FAVORITE CAKES. 

Small Cakes and also for Strawberry Layer Cake. 

Sent by Mrs. Robert W. Stuart, New York City, N. Y. 

Contributed by Cornelia E. Paulmier Scott, Mrs. Wm. Carpenter Scott, 
" Dipple," Ardmore, Pa. 

%1 /i cup of butter creamed with 1 cup of sugar, 2 very scant cups 
of flour, 2 even teaspoons of baking powder, y 2 cup of milk, 2 eggs 
beaten separately, grated rind of a piece of lemon. 



RARE OLD RECEIPTS 29 

TWO OLD SPANISH RECEIPTS FROM MONTEREY, 
CALIFORNIA. 

ENCHILADAS. 

Contributed by Louise Catherwood Maud, Mrs. Charles E. Maud, 

Monterey, Calif. 

Make a chili sauce of a can of good tomatoes, four red peppers, 
1 onion, 1 small edge of garlic chopped fine, a spoonful of salt, a 
little chili sauce, and a spoonful of sugar. Cook until all mixed. 
Then add three hard boiled eggs chopped fine, a dozen stoned olives 
and half a cup of scalded raisins. Make a batter as for French pan- 
cakes, 4 ounces sifted flour, 1 egg, 2% gills of milk and a pinch of 
salt. Have a large frying pan very hot, grease it well, and then 
pour in enough batter to just cover the bottom. 

In about a minute the cake may be turned, but this really requires 
skill. The Spanish women can give the pan a turn and a flip, and 
the cake is over. When the pancakes are done fill them with the 
sauce, and roll them up, and pour sauce over them. 

CHICKEN TAMALES. 

Contributed by Louise Catherwood Maud, Mrs. Charles E. Maud, 

Monterey, Calif. 

Make same sauce as for enchiladas. Boil any left over old barn- 
yard rover, and cut the meat up fine, and stir into the sauce with eggs, 
olives and raisins. Have some boiling corn meal mush, and at the 
same time have some corn husks soaking in warm water. Spread 
a corn husk out, lay on it a thin cover of the mush, then a layer of 
the sauce, etc., then another layer of the mush. Then put a corn husk 
on the top and one on each side if necessary, and tie the end securely 
and put in a steamer over boiling water to keep very hot. 

These, also, may be made in advance and warmed over. 



30 RARE OLD RECEIPTS 

OLD FASHIONED MOLASSES CANDY. 

Contributed by Mr. C. Hartman Kuhn, Philadelphia, Pa. 

I pt. of molasses, a large teacup of sugar, i ounce of ginger, 4 
tablespoonfuls of lime juice, a small piece of butter, half a grated 
cocoanut, and a little orange peel. Boil it slowly one and a half 
hours. 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. Bradford Norman, Newport, R. I. 

Contributed by Mrs. George A. Dunning, West Chester, Pa. 

2 cups Rhode Island corn meal, 1 cup rye flour, 1 teaspoonful 
salt, 1 baking powder, 2 eggs, well beaten, 1 cup of molasses, 5 cups 
of milk. Pour into large covered tin and let steam all night. 



TOMATO CATSUP. 

Mrs. Margaret Errickson Chambers, 1840. 

Contributed by Mrs. Katharine Errickson Hinckle, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Wash four half pecks of ripe tomatoes, place them in a pan, scald 
and skin them, then cook the tomatoes until they are soft, strain 
through a fine wire sieve and add 1 J^ pints of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful 
Cayenne pepper, y 2 tablespoonful black pepper, J4 of a pint of salt, 
3 heads of garlic cut in small pieces, 3 tablespoonfuls whole allspice, 3 
tablespoonfuls whole cloves. Tie each of the spices in a separate 
cheesecloth bag, boil for three hours, stirring constantly to prevent 
scorching, when done, remove the spice bags, bottle the catsup, cork 
tightly, sealing the bottles with wax. 








w 




mm 



■ 

ISHiiR 



mm 

mar 

m 



mm 



Mm 

■I 




m 



