
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



Culinary Collection 

From the Collection of 
Sophie Coe 






365 
Tasty Dishes 



A Tasty Dish for Every 
Day in the Year 




PHILADELPHIA 

GEORGE W. JACOBS & CO. 

PUBLISHERS 



TSZlt 



Copyright, 1906 

By George W. Jacobs & Company 

Published July, igo6. 



JANUARY. 



I.— Prune Snowballs. 

For prune snowballs soak i cupful or more 
of prunes in cold water for twenty-four 
hours. Have ready a dish of boiled rice 
and a number of small pudding cloths 
wrung out of hot water. Lay these, one at 
a time, over a small bowl and spread the rice 
on it about one-half of an inch thick. Put 
3 prunes in the centre, draw up the cloth un- 
til the prunes are covered with the rice, tie 
tightly and steam for ten minutes. Turn out 
on a hot dish and serve with a lemon or wine 
sauce. 

2. — Cheese Fondue. 

Scald I cupful of milk, add i cupful of 
soft stale bread crumbs, i tablespoonful of 
butter, )^ of a teaspoonful of salt, a dash 
of cayenne and jj( of a pound of chopped 
cheese. Take from the fire, add the yolks 
1 



Januaiy^ 

and whites of 3 eggs beaten separately, and 
bake twenty minutes in a buttered dish ; or 
stir in a chafing-dish until thickened then 
put out the light and serve at once. 

3. — Vegetable Salad a la Mignonette. 

Cook together for twenty minutes ^ of a 
can of tomatoes, }^ of a cupful of water, yi 
of an onion cut fine, 2 cloves, ^ of a bay 
leaf, a sprig of parsley, ^ of a teaspoonful 
of salt and i dozen peppercorns. Soak ^ 
of a package of granulated gelatine in 6 
tablespoonfuls of cold water. Taste to see 
that the tomato is well seasoned, add the gel- 
atine, stir until dissolved, then press through 
a sieve. Add 2 tablespoonfuls of tarragon 
vinegar, pour into a bbrder mould and set 
away to stiffen. Pare 2 good -sized potatoes, 
dice and boil in salted water until just tender. 
Cut fine )^ of a can of mushrooms. Rinse 
thoroughly, then drain i cupful of tiny 
canned peas. Cut fine sufficient blanched 
celery to measure ^ of a cup. Mix the 
vegetables, adding a liberal quantity of 
French dressing. Turn the jelly on a salad 
dish, fill the centre with the prepared vege- 



Januaiy. 

tables and sprinkle thickly with fresh mig- 
nonette pepper (whole peppers coarsely 
ground in a table pepper mill). 

4. — Ramakins. 

Place in a saucepan over the fire ^ of a 
cupful of milk, ^ of a teaspoonful of salt, 
^ of a teaspoonful of sugar, a dash of pa- 
prika or cayenne^ and i tablespoonful of but- 
ter. When it boils add 2 tablespoonfuls of 
dry flour and stir and beat until a smooth 
paste is formed. Continue stirring for five 
minutes, add 3 tablespoonfuls of grated 
cheese, the well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs and 
a second tablespoonful of butter, stir for a 
moment longer, then take from the fire, cover 
closely and set aside for twenty minutes. 
Whip the whites of 3 eggs to a stiff dry froth, 
cut carefully into the partly cooled mixture. 
Fill ramakin cases three-quarters full and 
bake in a very hot oven until puffed up and 
golden brown. 

5. — Bananas a la West. 

Strip the peel from any number of ba- 
nanas, being careful to remove all the fine bit- 
ter strings. Halve each crosswise, dip into 
8 



January. 

sweetened lemon juice, then roll in finely 
chopped nuts — ^preferably almonds or Eng- 
lish walnuts. Lay on a buttered pan and 
bake in a very hot oven until they can be 
easily pierced with a fork; this will take 
about twelve minutes. Serve hot or cold. 

6. — Kalecanon. 

Kalecanon is the time-honored name for 
warmed-over cabbage and potatoes. The 
two vegetables are chopped fine, mixed to- 
gether and highly seasoned. Some fat — 
preferably from corned beef or salt pork — is 
heated in a spider, the mixture turned in and 
cooked without stirring until smoking hot but 
not colored. 

7. — Fricadelles. 

For each cupful of finely-chopped cold 
roast veal allow i rather thick slice of bread 
freed from crust, ^ of a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, a 
pinch of powdered thyme, a few drops of 
onion juice and 2 well-beaten eggs for 3 cup- 
fuls of meat. Over the bread pour just suffi- 
cient hot milk to moisten it, mash and mix 
4 



January^ 

with the meat and other ingredients. Form 
with the hands into small cakes and fry lightly 
in a pan in a little hot butter. Serve with 
any good brown sauce. 

8.— Welsh Rarebit 

Into the chafing dish put i scant half tea- 
spoonful of salt, I level teaspoonful of pa- 
prika or a dash of cayenne and ^ of a tea- 
spoonful of dry mustard. Moisten with 3 
tablespoonfuls of ale. When steaming hot 
add I pound of good American cheese grated 
or cut fine. Stir constantly as the cheese be- 
gins to melt, moistening as necessary with 
more ale ; the exact quantity depends upon 
the kind of cheese used — probably not more 
than J^ a cupful will be needed altogether. 
Have ready some thin, crisp toast or some 
saltine wafers warmed in the oven. When 
the mixture in the chafing dish forms a 
smooth, creamy mass pour it over the toast 
or wafers and eat at once. 

9. — Cottage Pie. 

Free the meat from gristle and too much 
fat and put through the chopper. Season 
highly with chopped onion, salt and red pep- 
6 



January. 

per, adding, if liked, a few finely cut olives 
or a minced green or red pepper. Moisten 
well with gravy and put in a buttered baking 
dish. Boil and mash enough potatoes (or 
use cold mashed ones beaten up with a little 
warm milk) to make a thick cover over the 
meat. Dot the top with butter and bake in 
a hot oven. 

10.— Little Puff Puddings. 

In a saucepan heat J^ pint of milk. When 
steaming drop into it 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 
blended to a paste with 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter, and stir gently until it dissolves ; draw 
forward and continue stirring until the mix- 
ture is very thick and has boiled for about 
three minutes. Take from the fire, add 2 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, a pinch of salt, 2 
tablespoonfuls of sifted bread crumbs, a scant 
half teaspoonful of any desired flavoring and 2 
eggs slightly beaten. Half fill buttered muf- 
fin pans and bake in a moderate oven. 

As a sauce for these puddings dissolve 
I scant tablespoonful of corn-starch and a 
pinch of salt in a little cold water, add i cup- 
ful of boiling water and cook and stir until 
6 



January. 

thick and clear. Add ^ a cupful of straw 
berry or raspberry jelly, or marmalade, and i 
teaspoonful of lemon juice \ simmer for five 
minutes, then take from the fire and add i 
teaspoonful of butter. 

II. — Veal Terrapin. 

Cut the veal into inch dice. In a sauce- 
pan brown well together i tablespoonful of 
butter and i tablespoonful of flour; add i 
cupful of thin cream or rich milk and stir 
until smooth and thick. This will give a 
smooth sauce of a pale coffee color. Add the 
veal and a good seasoning of salt and pepper 
and simmer for ten minutes. Then add 3 
hard-boiled eggs coarsely chopped, J^ of a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice, cook five minutes 
longer, add 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry and 
take from the fire. Serve with a garnish of 
pim olas and quartered hard-boiled eggs. 

12. — Timbale of Lamb. 

For a timbale made from cold lamb put 
the meat through the finest cutter of the 
chopper and pound until reduced to a pulp. 
Season it well, and to each cupful add i ta- 
blespoonful of chopped parsley and 2 well- 
7 



Januaty^ 

beaten eggs, mix thoroughly, pack in a but- 
tered mold and steam for forty-five niinutes. 
To serve with it prepare a cupful of white 
sauce. Just before taking from the fire add 
I tablespoonful of chopped parsley, i tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice and the beaten yolks 
of 2 eggs mixed with i tablespoonful of 
cream or rich milk, and stir until slightly 
thickened. 

13. — Nut and Cream Cheese Salad. 

Mash the cream cheese with a fork, season 
it with white pepper and add a very little 
thick cream — ^just enough to keep it from 
crumbling. Mold into small balls and press 
on one side of each ball the meat of half an 
English walnut. Arrange in lettuce nests 
and serve with French dressing. 

14. — Braised Sweetbreads. 

Have ready i }i cupfuls of tomato sauce 
well sea3oned with onion and herbs. Place 
the prepared sweetbreads in a deep dish, pour 
over them one-third of the sauce, cover 
closely and cook in a moderate oven for from 
fifty minutes to an hour, according to thick- 
ness. Serve with the remainder of the sauce. 
8 



Januasy. 

15. — Roast Saddle of Venison. 

Wipe the meat off with a damp cloth, rub 
thoroughly with slightly salted melted butter, 
and wrap in a large sheet of buttered paper. 
A covered roaster is best. Place the meat on 
the rack, pour j^ cupful of boiling water in 
the bottom of the pan, cover and roast in a 
quick oven, allowing twenty minutes to the 
pound. Forty minutes before it is to be 
dished, remove cover and paper, and baste 
with a mixture of equal parts of melted butter 
and ciurant jelly. Repeat the basting at in- 
tervals of ten minutes until done. Transfer 
to a hot platter. Strain the drippings into a 
saucepan, add J^ of a pint of boiling water, 
a dash of salt, cayenne and nutmeg, and 2 
tablespoonfuls each of butter and currant 
jelly. Heat and boil up once, then send to 
the table in a gravy boat. 

16. — ^Meat Turn-overs. 

For meat turn-overs prepare a rich biscuit 
crust. Roll out quite thin and cut into cir- 
cles the size of a coffee saucer. Chop the 
meat very fine, moisten it with a little gravy 
or tomato catsup and season well. Put a 
9 



January. 

spoonful on each circle, fold over the dough 
and pinch the edges closely together. They 
may either be baked in a hot oven or fried in 
deep smoking-hot fat. 

i7«— Toasted Smoked Halibut 

Cut the halibut into quarter inch slices, lay 
on a platter, sprinkle with lemon juice and 
let stand for an hour, then dip each slice into 
melted butter, dust with a little pepper and 
toast over a clear fire. Serve garnished with 
sliced or quartered lemons. 

x8. — Southerland Pudding. 

Put I cupful of sifted flour into a bowl and 
add gradually 2 cupfuls of milk. Strain, add 
>^ of a teaspoonful of salt and 6 slightly 
beaten eggs. Fill deep, well-greased muffin 
cups two-thirds full and bake in a moderate 
oven until well puffed up and brown — about 
thirty-five minutes. Serve at once with a 
liquid sauce. 

19.— Deviled Toast 

Trim the crust from i dozen thin slices of 
stale brown or white bread, dry and toast to 
10 



Januaiy. 

a golden brown. Prepare a mixture of soft 
butter, a little made mustard and cayenne 
in proportions to suit the taste, and with this 
spread the bread, then Set in a warm oven for 
a few moments. Make a sauce with i table- 
spoonful of butter, i}i tablespoonfuls of 
flour, and i pint of milk. Add ^ of a 
teaspoonful of salt and 2 tablespoonfuls of 
beef extract. Stir until the latter is thor- 
oughly blended with the sauce. Dip in it 
each slice of the hot toast, arrange on a heated 
platter and pour the remainder of the sauce 
over all. 

20. — Creole Kedgeree. 

One cupful of cold broiled or steamed fish 
freed from skin and bones (cod, halibut or 
any firm fleshed fish will do), i cupful of 
boiled rice, i hard boiled egg cut fine, yi of 
a teaspoonful of salt, i tablespoonful of finely 
chopped green pepper, i tablespoonful of 
butter, 4 tablespoonfuls of stock. Cook the 
chopped pepper in the butter for three min- 
utes, add the other ingredients, stir and cook 
for five minutes, then serve on slices of but- 
tered toast. 

11 



Januasy^ 

21. — Stewed Figs. 

Put into an enameled stewpan 4 ounces of 
granulated sugar, the rind of i lemon and i 
pint of cold water. When the sugar is dis- 
solved add I pound of fine figs, and stew 
upon a slow fire from two to two and a-half 
hours. When the figs are perfectly tender, 
add I glass of sherry wine and the juice of i 
lemon. Serve when cold. 



22. — Indian Meal Mush. 

Two cupfuls of sifted meal and as much 
cold water as will make it into a batter, free 
from lumps; i teaspoonful of salt. Have 
ready i quart of boiling water and stir the 
batter into it, allowing it to boil briskly for 
thirty minutes. Stir frequently, and if it is 
somewhat too thick, add i cupful more of 
boiling water. Serve hot with cream and 
sugar as a change from the oaten and 
wheaten cereals for breakfast. Cold mush 
may be cut in strips, dipped in beaten egg^ 
floured and fried for lunch. The above 
formula may be varied by using half new 
milk and half water. 

12 



Januasy. 

23. — Brown Curry. 

For a brown curry melt 2 tablespoonfuls 
of butter in a saucepan, add to it i large 
sliced onion and fry till it is brown. Add 2 
pounds of beef, veal or mutton cut in small 
pieces and let all cook up together. Make a 
paste of I small tablespoonful of curry 
powder and water and stir into the meat for 
five minutes, or till thoroughly mixed. 
Season with salt, add i cupful of water and 
cook all slowly until meat is tender, possibly 
two hours. Just before serving add juice of 
half a lemon. 

24.— Fried Calf's Brains. 

Drop the brains in cold water as soon as 
received. Change the water frequently until 
they look white and nice. Carefully remove 
tough muscles and, if possible, the outer 
membrane, the latter requiring careful hand- 
ling. Place in a saucepan, with j^ of a tea- 
spoonful of salt, I tablespoonful of vinegar 
and sufficient boiling water to cover. Sim- 
mer very gently for fifteen minutes, drop into 
cold water and let stand until chilled. Drain, 
split with a silver knife and dip each piece 
13 



Januasy. 

into beaten egg, then roll in fine crumbs. 
Have a deep kettle partly filled with smoking 
hot fat, immerse each piece in it and cook 
quickly until golden brown. Serve with a 
brown, tomato or tartare sauce. 

25.— Hot Gruel. 

Beat up an tgg to a froth, add a wine- 
glassful of sherry, sweeten and add a little 
grated lemon and nutmeg. Have ready some 
hot gruel made very smooth, stir in the wine 
and egg and serve with sippets of toast. 
This is quite delicious. 

26.— Fried Smelts. 

Smelts are a small pan fish found in most 
of the Eastern markets throughout the winter. 
Those which come from Canada and North- 
ern points are frozen, and can usually be had 
for about ten cents a pound. Green smelts 
are much larger, and come from points 
around and south of New York ; they cost 
almost twice as much as the smaller variety. 
They are drawn through the gills. Wash 
them thoroughly and dry on a soft cloth. 
Dip in milk and roll in flour or com meal, or 
14 



January. 

dip into slightly beaten tgg and roll in fine 
crumbs. Have a deep kettle partly filled with 
smoking hot fat. Do not put more than half 
a dozen in at a time, and draw the kettle off 
a little, so that they will be browned and 
thoroughly cooked in about four minutes. 
Bring the fat back to its first heat and cook 
more, keeping those first cooked on a pan 
lined with soft or unglazed paper in the open 
oven; this removes superfluous fat and keeps 
them hot. Serve on a napkin, garnished with 
cress or parsley and quartered lemons. 

27.~Veal Cutlets in Cheese Batter. 

Prepare a frying batter by beating together 
the yolks of 2 eggs, J^ of a cupful of water, 
a pinch of salt, ^ of a cupful of flour, i 
tablespoonful of melted butter and j4 of a, 
cupful of grated cheese. Whip the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir gently into 
the batter and set aside for a few hours. 
Trim and cut the meat in moderately thin 
slices, dip a piece at a time into the batter 
and drop into deep smoking-hot fat. Only 
cook two or three pieces at a time unless the 
kettle is a large one. 

16 



January. 

aS. — French Recipe for Fritters. 

Half pint water, 2 ounces butter, ^ pound 
flour, 3 eggs, ^ ounce currants. This quan- 
tity is sufficient for ten persons. Is very nice 
without the currants. Put the water and 
butter in a saucepan with the peeling of one 
lemon. When the water boils well take out 
the lemon peel. Take the saucepan from the 
fire, add the flour by degrees, beating well. 
Put the paste so made back on the fire for a 
few moments. Remove firom the fire, beat 
the eggs into it, one at a time. Should the 
paste be too stiff add another eggs. Beat 
in the currants. Have a pan of lard ready, 
not too hot, at first. Take a teaspoon and 
drop a teaspoonful of the paste into the 
lard. After all are browned a delicate color, 
serve with powdered sugar sifted over while 
hot. 

29. — Liver and Bacon. 

Liver and bacon is a favorite breakfast dish 
in many households, but the bacon should 
not be soft nor the liver hard. Bacon is best 
when cut in paper thin slices and quickly 
cooked. To cut it easily it should be chilled 
16 



Januafy. 

until firm, placed rind side downward on the 
table and sliced with a very sharp knife; 
when the requisite amount has been cut the 
rind can be removed with one horizontal 
stroke. Have the pan hissing hot, lay in a 
few slices at a time, turn quickly and transfer 
to a side dish as soon as pale brown. In a 
moment they will be crisp. If calf's liver is 
too dear use lamb's liver rather than beefji. 
Cut in moderately thick slices, dip in flour 
and fry quickly in the hot bacon fat. The 
extra fat should then be poured off, flour 
dredged in to absorb what remains, and boil- 
ing water gradually added to reduce the 
gravy to the desired consistency. 

30. — Cream of Celery Soup. 

Pound a head of celery and boil it in i pint 
of rich chicken broth for twenty minutes (if 
boiled too long it loses the flavor of the cel- 
ery). Mix 2 tablespoonfuls of flour with 2 
tablespoonfuls of table butter; add this to 
the boiling chicken broth and celery ; also }i 
pint of cream and ^ pint of milk. Season 
with salt and pepper to taste. If too thick, 
add a little more cream or broth to suit the 
taste. Strain and serve immediately. 
17 



January. 

31.— Apple Cake. 
(A German Recipe,) 
Dissolve I scant teaspoonful of soda in i 
cupful of sour milk. Rub 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of butter into i pint of sifted flour, add 
to this I egg beaten with 2 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, and then the milk and a saltspoonful 
of salt. Make a soft dough and spread it 
half an inch thick in a large pan, well 
greased. Pare and core 5 juicy apples ; cut 
each into eight pieces (dividing each quarter 
lengthwise), arrange them in rows on the 
dough, the sharp edges down, well pressed 
in. Sprinkle thickly with sugar, cinnamon, 
nutmeg and bits of butter. Bake in a quick 
oven for twenty-five minutes. Cut in small 
squares, and serve hot or cold. 



IS 



FEBRUARY. 

I. — Philadelphia Salad. 

Cut one pound of plain boiled tripe into 
fine dice, cover with a French dressing and 
put aside for several hours. Pick over, 
rinse and drain 2 dozen large fat oysters. 
Put them in a saucepan with 2 tablespoonfuls 
of their liquor, i drop of tabasco, ^ of a 
teaspoonful of horseradish and a dash of salt, 
and shake over the fire until they are ruffled 
and plump. Cool quickly, then cut in quar- 
ters. Put 4 tablespoonfuls of olive oil in a 
bowl and gradually stir into it i tablespoon- 
ful of the liquor cooked with the oysters and 
I teaspoonful of wine vinegar. Mix tripe 
and oysters, heap on a bed of watercress and 
pour the dressing over, then sprinkle with i 
tablespoonful of finely chopped olives. 

2. — Macaroni Croquettes. 

When macaroni is left from a preceding 
meal, it makes good croquettes for lunch. 
Chop it coarsely, measure and add one-half 
19 



Febmaty^ 

as much thick cream sauce (a tablespoonfuls 
of flour to the ^ pint of milk). Season 
well^ and when cold mold into croquettes^ 
egg, crumb, and fry in deep fat. The cheese 
sauce is an ordinary white sauce, to which 
grated cheese (3 tablespoonfuls to the cupful 
of sauce) is added, just before taking from 
the fire. 

3* — Scalloped Chicken. 

For a lunch dish, free all fragments of 
chicken from skin and bone, and cut into 
dice or pass through the coarsest cutter of a 
food chopper. Thicken the chicken gravy, 
using 2 tablespoonfuls of flour to i pint and 
season with salt, pepper, a few drops of 
onion juice, and a little finely chopped pars- 
ley. Put meat and gravy in layers in indi- 
vidual bakers or in a large dish, sprinkle 
thickly with buttered crumbs and brown in 
a quick oven. 

4. — Pork Pie. 

Pork pie is an old but very savory English 
dish. 2 pounds of lean raw pork should be 
cut into thin slices and dusted with salt, pep- 
per and a very little nutmeg. An earthen 
90 



Febmaty* 

pudding dish is lined with good crust and in 
it is placed in layers the meat, sliced tart ap- 
ples and a very little sugar, having the last 
layer meat. Over this pour J^ of a cupful 
of stock, add i tablespoonful of butter cut 
into bits and cover with a crust, making a 
slit in the centre and brushing it over with 
egg yolk. It will need one hour and a half 
in a moderate oven and can be served cold 
as well as hot. 

5.— Oyster Toddle. 

This is a seashore dish and is really a kind 
of chowder. Dice ^ of a pound of fat salt 
pork and cook slowly until well tried out. 
Add I pint of sUced raw potatoes, cover and 
cook in the fat until tender. Pour in i pint 
of hot milk and cook for five minutes; 
thicken with i tablespoonful of flour rubbed 
into half as much butter. Add i}i pints of 
washed oysters, salt and pepper to taste and 
take from the fire as soon as the oysters ruf- 
fle. Serve with broken hard tack or crackers. 

6. — Rice and Cheese Timbales. 

Wash and drain ^ a cupful of rice. Place 
in ^ double boiler with ^ of a teaspoonful of 
SI 



Febmaiy* 

salt and i}i pints of milk and cook until the 
milk is absorbed and the rice tender. Add 
I scant teaspoonful of salt, a dash of paprika, 
I tablespoonful of butter, i heaping teaspoon- 
ful of finely chopped parsley and j^ a cupful 
of chopped cheese. Stir to mix well, cover 
and cook for ten minutes longer. Pack into 
buttered timbale molds and keep in a steamer 
or a pan of hot water until ready to serve. 
They may be used as an entree with a clear 
tomato sauce served with them. 

7.— Lobster Chops. 

Chop coarsely 2 cupfuls of lobster meat, 
season with }i teaspoonful of salt, a dash of 
cayenne, a grating of nutmeg, i teaspoonful 
of lemon juice and i teaspoonful of finely- 
chopped parsley. Mix with this the beaten 
yolk of I tgg and i cupful of croquette sauce. 
When perfectly cool, shape the mixture into 
cutlets, flour, tgg and crumb. Before frying 
stick the tip end of a small lobster claw into 
the small end of the chop and fry a rich 
brown. Set the cutlets on end on a hot plat- 
ter around a large bunch of parsley and serve 
with tomato sauce, or put a teaspoonful of 
tartare sauce on each cutlet when serving. 
22 



8.— Lamb and Tomato Stew. 

Take cold roast or cold boiled lamb and 
cut fine. Put into a saucepan with i table- 
spoonful of butter and stand over a hot fire 
for a few moments until slightly brown. Add 
I tablespoonful of flour, yi cupful of stewed 
tomatoes, and a flavoring of Worcestershire 
sauce or bay leaf. Cook for a few minutes 
longer, stirring the while. 

9*— Eggs in Jelly. 

Mold them in egg-shells in a dish of clear 
lemon or wine jelly. If candied orange or 
lemon peel can be had, cut it in long fine 
strips and with these make a nest on a serving 
platter. In it place the jelly eggs and garnish 
with the rest of the jelly cut in cubes. With 
this a cold boiled custard sauce can be served. 

zo. — Fried Apple Sauce. 

A dish of what is frequently called fried 
apple sauce will be found very acceptable for 
lunch. Quarter, core and pare the apples. 
In a thick skillet slowly cook a large table- 
spoonful of butter until it is a pale brown. 
Pack in the apples, drop a half spoonful of 
23 



Febrndfy. 

butter in bits over the top, cover closely and 
place somewhat to one side of the fire that 
the cooking may not be too fast. When the 
apples are fairly tender sprinkle over them as 
much sugar as you think will make them 
fairly sweet, but do not stir. When done 
turn carefully into a serving dish and send 
hot to the table with a pitcher of cream. 

IX. — Veal Kidney Stew. 

Trim 2 or 3 small veal kidneys and cut 
fine. Put into a saucepan with i heaping 
tablespoonful of butter and stand over a hot 
fire, stirring occasionally, until lightly col- 
ored. Add I heaping tablespoonful of flour 
and slightly brown, then stir in >^ of a cup- 
ful of thick strained tomato, i tablespoonful 
of tomato catsup, 10 drops of Worcestershire 
and ^ of a cupful of beef stock. Stir and 
simmer for five minutes. 

12. — Baked Sweetbreads* 

When partially cooled remove the prepared 
sweetbreads from the cold water, lay on a 
platter, cover with a second dish and weight 
it so as to flatten the meat. When cold brush 
with butter and place on a shallow pan. If 
d4 



Febmaty^ 

desired they may first be larded ; in lieu of 
this lay on top of each a thin slice of fat salt 
pork. Place in a very hot oven for thirty 
minutes, basting twice with rich stock. Serve 
with any good brown sauce. 

13. — Fruit Pinwheels. 

The base is a dough put together as for 
baking powder biscuit in the proportions of 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter, i scant tea- 
spoonful of salt, I tablespoonful of sugar, i 
egg, and 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder to 
each quart of flour, sufficient sweet milk to 
make a soft dough. This is rolled out half 
an inch thick, spread with a thin layer of 
soft butter, and currants, chopped citron, 
raisins and granulated sugar in as large or 
small quantities as will suit the family taste. 
After rolling up as closely as possible inch 
slices are cut off with a very sharp knife, laid 
on greased pans and baked in a hot oven. 

14.— Meat Puffs. 

Chop fine sufficient lean roast meat to 
measure i cupful. Beat 2 eggs until well 
mixed, add ^ of a cupful of milk, ^ of a 
26 



Febmaiy^ 

teaspoonful of salt, the chopped meat and 
sufficient flour to make a drop batter. Lastly 
stir in 2 scant teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
fill greased muffin pans two-thirds full and 
bake in a quick oven. 

15.— Potted Fish. 

From such cold fish as is on hand remove 
skin and bones, chop fine, then pound it to a 
paste. For each cupful of this paste allow 
^ of a teaspoonful of made mustard, a dash 
of cayenne, i teaspoonful of salt and i table- 
spoonful of butter. Melt the butter and in- 
corporate it with the seasonings ; if quite dry 
add a little more butter. Pack solidly in 
small jars. Stand in a steamer and steam 
for half an hour, then press again in the jars, 
and when cold cover the top of each with a 
quarter of an inch layer of melted butter. 
If put away in a cold place this will keep for 
several weeks. 

16.— Waldorf Salad. 

With a sharp knife cut up fine sufficient 
crisp, well-bleached celery to measure 2 cup- 
fuls. Cut fine some pared tart apples and add 
26 



Febmafy^ 

I cupful to the celery, then dress with a 
French dressing. Select a number of red 
apples of uniform size and shape, take off the 
tops, scoop out the centres, and cut the upper 
rims in points. Heap with the prepared salad 
and serve each apple-cup in a nest of bleached 
lettuce leaves. 

17.— Creamed Codfish. 

Into a saucepan put i tablespoonful of flour 
and I tablespoonful of butter and mix to- 
gether over the fire. Add J^ of a tea- 
spoonful of salt, ^ of a teaspoonful of white 
pepper and i cupful of milk and stir until 
smooth and thick. Remove the skin and 
bone from some cooked codfish and with a 
fork break it into flakes. Add i cupful of 
this prepared fish to the sauce, stand at the 
side of the fire for five minutes, add i tea- 
spoonful of vinegar or a few drops of lemon 
juice and serve in a dish or on toast. 

18.— Jam Toast. 

Cut thin slices of stale bread into two-inch 
squares ; fry them in deep fat or spread with 
27 



Febmafy. 

butter and brown in the oven. Spread 
with jam, place in the oven a moment 
until the jam is slightly softened, and serve 
hot. 

19. — Prune Pudding. 
Pick over and wash i pound of prunes. 
Drain, cover with fresh cold water and soak 
over night. Put on over a slow fire and 
cook gently until very soft; then skim out 
the fruit and return the juice to the fire to 
boil rapidly. Rub the fruit through a sieve 
and mix with the juice when the latter has 
boiled down to two-thirds of a cupful, sweet- 
ening to taste. Reheat, adding the yolks of 
3 eggs beaten well, and stir until slightly 
thickened ; then stand aside for five minutes. 
Whip the whites of 5 eggs to a stiff froth 
and mix in lightly with the prunes, adding a 
few drops of vanilla. Turn into a buttered 
dish and bake in a moderate oven for about 
twenty minutes. Serve cold with cream or 
with a cold boiled custard. 

20.— Salt Cod Salad. 

Select a thick piece weighing about a 
pound from the middle of the fish and soak 



I :-. 



Februarf^ 

over night. Drain, put into a saucepan, 
cover with cold water and heat slowly. Sim- 
mer very gently for forty minutes, then drain 
and put aside until cold. With a fork break 
into large flakes, cover with thin mayon- 
naise or a French dressing and let stand for 
half an hoiur. Arrange on a bed of lettuce, 
add more dressing and garnish with small 
red radishes. 

21. — Cocoanut Flummery. 

Slice a stale loaf of sponge cake. Put a 
layer in the bottom of a deep glass dish. 
Prepare a rich boiled custard and when cold 
pour some of it over the cake (it should be 
flavored with wine and vanilla). Grate suf- 
ficient peeled cocoanut to measure a cupfuls. 
To the whites of 4 eggs add 2 tablespoonfuls 
of powdered sugar, whip to a soft froth, add 
2 more spoonfuls of sugar, whip again ; re- 
peat until one cupful of sugar is used and the 
mixture very stiflf and glossy. Stir in lightly 
the grated cocoanut then spread a layer of 
it over the moistened cake. Add a second 
layer of cake, pour over the rest of the 
custard and heap on the remainder of the 



cocoanut whip. Let stand in a cold place 
for two hours, then serve. 



22. — Cheese Crusts. 

Cut thin slices of stale bread in neat 
pieces ; fry them in deep fat or spread with 
butter and brown in the oven. Spread 
thickly with grated cheese to which has 
been added a dash of salt and pepper and 
place in a hot oven until the cheese is melted. 
Crackers may be substitued for the fried 
bread. 

23.— Marshmallow Pudding. 

For marshmallow pudding weigh 3 eggs 
and take an equal weight each in sugar, but- 
ter and flour. Cream thoroughly the butter 
and sugar, add a dash of salt, i teaspoonful 
of vanilla or i tablespoonful of orange-flower 
water then, one at a time, the eggs. Beat 
well until the mixture is light and fine- 
grained, adding the flour gradually. Last 
of all, stir in four ounces of marshmallows cut 
into bits, turn into a buttered mold and steam 
for an hour and a quarter. 
80 



24. — Scotch Woodcock. 

Boil 5 eggs for an hour, shell and chop 
very fine. In a saucepan melt i heaping 
tablespoonful of butter, add i tablespoonful 
of flour ; when mixed, pour in i cupful of 
milk and stir until smooth and thick. Add 
^ of a teaspoonful of salt, jioi^L, teaspoon- 
ful of paprika or a dash of cayenne, ^ a 
teaspoonful or more of anchovy essence ac- 
cording to taste, and the chopped eggs. 
Simmer gently for five minutes. Have ready 
a number of slices of thin crisp buttered 
toast. With a spoon spread a layer of the 
mixture over each slice, pile on a hot platter 
and pour over all the remainder, then send at 
once to the table. 

25. — Delmonico Potatoes. 

While the name may sound formidable, 
Delmonico potatoes are quickly and easily 
prepared. Cut up fine sufficient cold-boiled 
potatoes to measure i pint, season with i 
teaspoonful of salt and ^ of a teaspoonful of 
pepper. Turn into a shallow, well-greased 
baking-dish and pour over i cupful of thin 
cream. Melt 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, pom- 
Si 



Febmafy^ 

over this, then brown in a quick oven and 
send at once to the table. 

a6. — Scalloped White Turnips. 

White turnips are preferable to yellow 
ones when they are to be served creamed or 
scalloped. If cut into small dice they will 
boil tender in from ten to fifteen minutes and 
do away with much of the unpleasant odor. 
After draining they may be simmered for a 
few moments in the white sauce or may be 
placed in layers with the sauce in a baking-dish, 
covered with buttered crumbs and placed in a 
moderate oven until nicely browned. Either 
of these ways result in a delicate dish totally 
different from one in which several hours of 
preliminary boiling are necessary. 

27. — Flemish Carrots. 

Flemish carrots will need besides i quart of 
diced winter carrots, J4 of a cupful of 
chopped onion, i tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, i tablespoonful of butter and i cup- 
ful of brown sauce or gravy. While the 
carrots are boiling tender slowly cook the 
onions and butter in a covered saucepan. 
38 



When tender and beginning to color add the 
gravy and necessary seasoning, then the 
drained carrots and simmer for fifteen min- 
utes ; add the parsley just before dishing. 

a8. — Beef Grenadines. 

From a beef tenderloin cut inch slices. 
Melt a little butter in a frying-pan, lay in the 
slices and cook slowly for ten minutes on each 
side without really browning or giving them 
the appearance of being fried. When turned 
sprinkle the upper side with salt, pepper and 
a few drops of mushroom catsup. Have 
ready a thick brown sauce in which has been 
cooked I tablespoonful of chopped ham, i 
tablespoonful of sherry and i teaspoonful of 
mushroom catsup. Strain and see that it is 
well seasoned. Boil some Brussels sprouts 
until tender, drain and reheat for a moment 
in a saucepan containing a little melted 
butter seasoned with salt and pepper; toss 
and shake that they may absorb the but- 
ter. Heap the sprouts in the centre of the 
platter, put the sauce (which should be very 
thick) round them and arrange the grena- 
dines in a circle round the base of the sprouts. 

33 



HARCH. 



X. — Genoa Ramakins. 

For each person cut from a stale loaf a 
slice of bread an inch and a half thick, then 
trim into circles which will fit in the little 
dishes. Beat 2 eggs, add a pinch of salt and 
i^ cupfuls of milk (this will probably suffice 
for six persons). With this raw custard 
baste the bread already arranged in the 
dishes, until it is thoroughly soaked and will 
absorb no more liquid. Have ready some 
grated cheese (any variety preferred) and 
season it with a little pepper. Over the 
bread in each dish pour i teaspoonful of 
melted butter and cover with an inch layer 
of the cheese. Place in a hot oven until the 
cheese is melted and browned, by which 
time the custard in the bread will be set. 
Serve very hot. 

2. — Banana Pie. 

Line a deep earthen fire dish with the very 
best puff pastry. Fill it with sliced bananas, 
34 



March. 

sugar and orange juice. Sift a dessertspoon- 
ful of corn-starch over the top^ and bake 
until a light brown. Cover with meringue« 
flavored with orange juice. 

3. — Spinach Souffle. 

Take one large cupful of freshly-cooked 
spinach and put through the food chopper, 
using a fine cutter, then rub through a sieve. 
Beat into this the yolks of 3 raw eggs, ^ of 
a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper and a 
few drops of onion juice. Fold in lightly 2 
tablespoonfuls of whipped cream and the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff, dry froth. 
Fill greased cups or souffle dishes two-thirds 
full and bake in a moderate oven for from ten 
to fifteen minutes, according to size. Serve 
immediately, as it soon falls. 

4.— Potatoes Gruyere. 

Allow I large potato for each person. 
Wash and bake in a hot oven, then open and 
scoop into a heated bowl. Mash, and for 
each potato add J^ of a teaspoonful of butter, 
I large tablespoonful of gruyere (Swiss) cheese 
grated, salt and pepper to taste, and the 
36 



stiffly-wliipped whites of 3 eggs for ^ dozen 
potatoes. Beat well, turn into a pastry bag 
and press out in heaps on a buttered pan. 
Brush with beaten egg yolk and brown in a 
quick oven. 

5. — Crown of Pork. 

A crown of pork is made by putting to- 
gether the ribs of one side of an entire ani- 
mal so as to form a hollow circle, the rib 
bones, carefully scraped, pointing upward and 
outward, and the back bone notched between 
each two ribs to allow proper shaping. It 
is well to wrap and tie greased paper around 
the end of each rib bone, to prevent char- 
ring. As pork needs to be thoroughly done, 
from twenty to twenty-five minutes should be 
allowed to the pound in roasting. 

6. — Curried Potatoes. 

Eight cold boiled potatoes are diced. In 
a frying-pan a tablespoonful of chopped 
onion is slowly cooked in a tablespoonfuls 
of butter until it begins to color. The 
potatoes are then added, salt, pepper 
and I scant teaspoonful of curry powder 
36 



MarcK 

sprinkled over them and, when well mixed, 
)^ of a cupful of good stock and i 
tablespoonful of lemon juice should be 
poured in. The poutoes should be carefully 
tossed and cooked until all the liquid is 
absorbed then they are dished and sprinkled 
with a little chopped parsley. 

7. — Rice Boulettes. 

Pick over and wash ^ of a cupful of rice. 
Put it into a double boiler with ^ of a cup- 
ful of chicken or veal stock and cook until 
the liquid is absorbed. In the meantime 
cook together for twenty minutes )^ of a can 
of tomatoes, ^ of a small onion, i sprig 
of parsley, 2 cloves, i dozen peppercorns and 
I teaspoonful of sugar, then rub through a 
sieve. Add this to the rice and continue 
cooking until it is very tender and the 
tomatoes are about absorbed. Take the rice 
from the fire, add i beaten egg, J4 of a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a dash of cayenne, i table- 
spoonful of butter and 2 tablespoonfuls of 
grated cheese. Stir until these ingredients 
are well mixed in, then spread on a buttered 
platter and set aside. When cold form into 
37 



balls about an inch and a half in diameter, 
dip into beaten egg, roll in fine bread crumbs 
and fry golden brown in smoking hot fat. 

8.^Crust8 With Foie Gras. 

Cut the desired number of round slices 
of bread; have them an inch thick and a 
little larger than a silver dollar piece. Scoop 
out the centres sufficiently to receive a dessert 
spoonful of foie gras, and fry these crusts a 
delicate brown in hot butter. To prepare 
the foie gras, cut some in small dice ; to 2 
tablespoonfuls, add i tablespoonful of chopped 
truffles and 3 tablespoonfuls of Madeira. 
Let this become hot, fill the crusts, place a 
stuffed olive on top and serve. 

g. — Curried MacaronL 

Break ^ of a pound of macaroni in pieces 
and boil in plenty of salted water until 
almost done, then drain ; rinse in cold water 
and drain again. In the meantime chop fine 
2 large white onions and cook them slowly 
in a tablespoonfuls of butter. When golden- 
brown, add I dessertspoonful of curry 
powder and i heaping tablespoQi^fiil of Qpur ; 



Matcfu 

stir and brown. Add ^ of a cupful of 
chopped tart apple, i teaspoonful of sugar 
and i^ cupfuls of hot mUk, and stir until 
smoothly thickened. Season to taste with 
salt and pepper and simmer for ten minutes, 
then add the drained macaroni. Simmer for 
fifteen minutes longer and serve, garnished 
with sippets of fried bread. 

10. — Chicken Terrapin. 

Cut into rather coarse dice sufficient cold 
roast or boiled chicken to measure i pint. 
Put I tablespoonful of butter and i table- 
spoonful of flour in a saucepan over the fire 
and stir occasionally until nicely browned ; 
gradually add i cupful of thin cream or rich 
milk and stir until smooth and thick, giving 
a pale coffee-colored sauce. Add the chicken 
and, when the latter is heated through, 3 
hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters, 3 table- 
spoonfuls of sherry, and salt and pepper to 
season. Take from the fire and garnish with 
olives or pim olas. 

II. — ^Tomato Toast. 
Stew yi of SL can of tomatoes, i clove, a 
sprig of parsley, a slice of onion, ^ of a 
39 



March^ 

cupful of water and salt and pepper to taste 
for twenty minutes then press through a 
sieve. Return to the fire, thicken with 
I scant tablespoonful of corn-starch or i 
tablespoonful of flour dissolved in a little 
cold water and simmer for five minutes. 
Have ready a number of slices of toasted 
bread. Spread on a platter, pour the tomato 
over them, cover for a moment or set in a 
cool oven that the toast may soak and swell, 
then serve. Nice for lunch or a hot supper. 

12. — Curried Salmon. 

Put in a saucepan i tablespoonful of butter 
and I tablespoonful of chopped onion and 
cook slowly together till the onion changes 
color. Add i tablespoonful of flour and i 
teaspoonful of curry powder, mix with the 
butter, then add J^ of a pint of milk. When 
smooth add more seasoning if liked, draw to 
one side and simmer ten minutes. Add i 
pound of salmon (canned or boiled) freed 
from bones and skin and broken in good 
sized pieces. Gently cook fifteen minutes 
longer and serve with boiled rice in a separate 
dish. 

40 



March^ 

13. — Farina Balls. 
Four tablespoonfuls of farina are to be 
cooked in a double boiler with i pint of milk 
until tender. Season with salt, pepper and i 
teaspoonful of onion juice, add i teaspoonful 
of butter, i well-beaten egg and i table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, turn out on a 
buttered dish and let stand until cold. Form 
into small balb, dip into egg, roll in crumbs 
and fry brown in smoking-hot fat. 

14. — Veal Kidney Omelet. 
Remove the fat and tubes from a veal kid- 
ney and chop it fine. Place in a frying-pan 
with I tablespoonful of butter, ^ of a tea- 
spoonful of salt and a dash of pepper, and 
shake over a hot fire until the meat is a 
golden brown ; then draw off to one side 
where it will keep hot. Beat 4 eggs without 
separating, add i tablespoonful of warm 
water. Heat i teaspoonful of butter in a 
clean frying-pan. When very hot pour in 
the eggs and shake and stir over the hottest 
part of the fire until the mixture begins to 
set. Draw back a little that the omelet may set 
without burning, turn the cooked kidney over 
the centre, fold up and serve on a hot platter. 
41 



Hardin 

15. — Sardines With Rice. 
This is a new way of serving sardines. 
Open the can, remove the fish carefully and 
pour the oil into a frying-pan, adding to it 
^ of a bay leaf and >^ of a teaspoonful of 
curry powder. Thicken with a very little 
corn-starch rubbed to a paste with melted 
butter. In five minutes add the fish and 
draw to one side of the fire where they will 
heajt through. Serve them on a platter with 
a border of boiled rice. 

x6. — Spiced Mutton. 

This is an appetizing way of serving 
cooked mutton. Cut the meat into good- 
sized dice and for about a quart simmer to- 
gether for five minutes 2 tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, i bay leaf and i teaspoonful of 
peppercorns. Add this to i pint of good 
brown gravy made with equal parts of brown 
stock and tomato, add i teaspoonful of onion 
juice, the meat and a high seasoning of salt 
and pepper and simmer for fifteen minutes. 

17. — Corned Beef Dinner. 

A corned beef dinner is disliked by many. 
Try preparing it in this way. Heat the meat 
43 



Uarch. 

slowly in cold water. When scalding hot 
drain, add fresh cold water and keep the pot 
at the side of the fire all day where the water 
will barely bubble. Shave the cabbage, soak 
in cold salted water half an hour, put on the 
fire in plenty of boiling salted water and keep 
at a galloping boil for thirty minutes. Drain, 
pressing out the water, season and heap 
lightly in a hot dish. Transfer the meat to 
a steamer or some place where it will keep 
hot and moist while the potatoes are cooked 
in the pot liquor. Cooked in this way the 
meat is tender, the potatoes well flavored 
and the cabbage rendered as digestible as it 
can be when cooked. 

18.— Sweetbreads with Oranges. 

Select several large heart sweetbreads, drop 
into cold water and soak until well blanched, 
then drain and dry in a cloth. Pull off the 
tubes and with a sharp knife score lightly all 
over. Dip each into melted butter mixed 
with an equal quantity of orange juice; 
sprinkle with salt and pepper and place on a 
flat baking pan. Cook in a very hot oven 
for thirty minutes, basting three times with 
the butter and orange juice. In a saucepan 
43 



March. 

melt and brown i heaping tablespoonful of 
butter^ add i tablespoonful of flour and 
brown again; Stir in gradually ^ of a cup- 
ful of good beef stock. When smoothly 
thickened add ^ of a cupful of strained 
orange juice and 2 tablespoonfuls of orange 
sliced, without paring, and cut fine. Season 
to taste and take at once from the fire. 
Dish the sweetbreads on a bed of cress and 
sliced orange, pour over i spoonful or so of 
the gravy and send to the table. 

ig. — Meat and Macaroni. 

Cut the meat in small, neat dice. For 
I pint break i cupful of macaroni and boil in 
salted water until tender, then drain. Pre- 
pare I pint of tomato sauce, turn into it the 
meat and macaroni, and draw to the side of 
the fire for fifteen minutes or until the meat 
is very hot through. Serve on toast. 

aa — Beauregard Eggs. 

Cover 3 eggs with boiling water, and keep 
the latter at simmering point for three-quar- 
ters of an hour, then cool and shell the eggs. 
Chop the whites quite fine. Make a sauce 
with I cupful of milk, i tablespoonful of 
44 



Marcfu 

flour mixed to a paste with a little cold milk 
and ^ of a teaspoonful of salt. Add the 
chopped whites and i scant teaspoonful of 
butter, and simmer for ten minutes. Toast 
and cut into triangles several slices of bread. 
Arrange on a hot dish, pour over the sauce 
and rub the yolks through a strainer, letting 
them cover the sauce. If desirable, garnish 
with a pinch of chopped parsley. 

21. — Fish Scallop. 
Where baked or steamed fish is left from 
dinner one way of utilizing it is in a scallop. 
Flake the fish after freeing it from skin and 
bone, and for each pint make a sauce with i^ 
cupfuls of milk and i heaping tablespoonful 
each of butter and flour. Put this into a 
deep dish in layers with the fish ; over the 
top sprinkle some buttered crumbs and bake 
in a hot oven until brown. 

22.— Egg Timbales. 

Beat 8 eggs without separating, add i 
rounded teaspoonful of salt, ^ of a teaspoon- 
ful of white pepper, I tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, i teaspoonful of onion juice and i^ 
pintjs of milk. Stir well together and fill 
46 



small buttered timbale molds two-thirds full. 
Set the molds in a deep pan, partly fill the 
latter with boiling water, cover with buttered 
paper and place in a moderate oven until firm 
in the centre, which will take from ten to 
twenty minutes. Serve with tomato sauce. 

23.— Rice Salad. 

To 2 cupfuls of cold boiled rice take i 
cupful of finely diced deep red beets and i 
cupful of chopped or cut celery. Do not mix 
together until just before serving, then com- 
bine with a French dressing and serve in 
cups made of blanched lettuce leaves. 

24.— Almond Charlotte. 

Blanch and chop fine i large cupful of al- 
monds. Melt 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar in a 
frying-pan — do not add any water — ^throw in 
the almonds and stir until browned, then 
turn out to cool and pound them quite fine. 
Put them in a double boiler with i^ cupfuls 
of milk and heat slowly to the scalding point. 
Beat together 3 egg yolks and ^ of a cupful 
of sugar, add some of the hot milk, mix and 
turn into the boiler, stirring until the mii^^ure 
46 



March^ 

begins to thicken. Add ^ of a box of gela- 
tine which has been soaked in ^ of a cupful 
of cold water and stir until it is dissolved ; 
take from the fire, strain and set aside until 
beginning to cool and thicken. Add i pint 
of thick cream whipped to a solid froth, stir 
lightly until mixed, then turn into a fancy 
serving dish or into individual molds. 

25. — Rice Sponge. 

Rice sponge needs }^ of a cupful of washed 
rice and ^ of a teaspoonful of salt cooked 
with I pint of milk in a double boiler until 
very soft. It is then rubbed through a sieve 
and mixed with i cupful of powdered sugar 
and I tablespoonful of lemon juice. Into this 
is folded the stiffly whipped whites of 8 eggs 
and the mixture is poured into a well but- 
tered fancy border mold, set in a pan of warm 
water and baked in a moderate oven for half 
an hour. When cooled it is turned out on a 
serving dish and the centre filled with drained 
canned fruit. 

a6. — Orange and Cocoanut Pudding. 

Butter very thoroughly a tall crimpled 
moM, sprinkle the bottom and sides with 
47 



March^ 

grated cocoanut, using the fresh nut rather 
than the desiccated article, if possible. 
Crumble rather fine a stale sponge or cup 
cake. Fill the mold almost to the top with 
alternate layers of cake, cocoanut and sliced 
or pulped oranges. Beat well 4 eggs, add i 
pint of milk, a pinch of salt and 3 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Baste this slowly over 
the mixture in the mold and let stand for ten 
or fifteen minutes that the cake may absorb 
the custard. Steam for from forty-five min- 
utes to an hour, according to size, and gar- 
nish with sections of oranges and whipped 
cream. 



27. — Deviled Cheese. 

This is prepared by placing in a saucepan 
^ of a pound of grated or finely cut Ameri- 
can cheese, ^ of a cupful of cream, i tea- 
spoonful of butter, i slightly beaten egg, i 
tablespoonful of finely chopped mixed pickle, 
a high seasoning of salt and cayenne and yi 
of a teaspoonful of Worcestershire. Stir 
over hot water until the mixture is smooth 
and thick as custard then serve on buttered 
toast. 

48 



March^ 

28.— Nun's Toast. 

Cut stale bread into rather thick slices, 
trimming off all crust ; or it may be cut into 
rounds with a biscuit cutter. For every 4 or 
5 slices take i ^g, i cupful of milk and a 
pinch of salt. Beat the egg, add the milk 
and salt. Lay the bread on a platter and 
baste each piece with the raw custard, adding 
more from time to time until it has taken up 
all the liquid it will absorb. Melt a little 
butter or very sweet rendered suet in a pan. 
When hot carefully lay in the prepared bread 
using a cake turner that it may not be broken. 
Fry over a moderate fire until golden brown 
then turn and brown on the other side. 
Serve at once with butter and a bowl of 
powdered sugar in which has been mixed a 
little powdered cinnamon; or hard sauce 
may be used if preferred. This simple des- 
sert masquerades under a variety of names — 
nun's toast, French toast, German toast, 
arme ritter, fried bread, etc. 

29.-- Baked Pudding. 

Use I cupful of sour cream, ^ cupful of 
sugar, 2 cupfuls of flour, i scant teaspoonful 
49 



March^ 

of bicarbonate of soda, a little salt and i pint 
of berries. Stir the fruit into the batter, and 
bake one-half hour. Serve with whipped 
cream or hard sauce. 

Another good baked pudding is made in 
this way : Take a deep pudding dish, put a 
layer of blackberry jam in the bottom of the 
dish, a layer of batter composed as follows : 
I cupful of sweet milk, i ^gg, i tablespoon- 
ful of butter, a little salt, i teaspoonful of 
baking powder and 2 cupfuls of flour. Al- 
ternate the layers of batter and jam until the 
dish is filled, a layer of batter on top. Bake 
in a quick oven. Serve with sweetened 
cream. 

30. — Smothered Round Steak. 

Take a slice of lean round at least two 
inches thick ; trim off any extra fat and wipe 
with a damp cloth. Peel and thinly slice 
I onion and spread it over the bottom of the 
dripping pan. On it lay the steak. Mix i 
can of evaporated tomato soup or i pint of 
thick tomato sauce with i cupful of boiling 
water ; pour half of it over the meat ; cover 
closely and put in a moderate oven. Cook 
twenty to thirty minutes to the pound. When 
60 



March. 

half done, add a little more of the sauce, if 
necessary; the remainder is served in the 
gravy boat with the meat. 

31.— Parsnip Fritters. 

Parsnips are scraped, sliced and boiled 
until tender. They may then be browned in 
a Uttle butter, or egged, crumbed and fried 
in deep fat. For fritters they are mashed, 
and to each cupful is added ^ of a cupful 
of flour, I beaten egg, ^ of a teaspoonful of 
salt, a dash of pepper, ^ of a teaspoonful of 
baking powder, and if necessary a few spoon- 
fuls of milk. This is then dropped by spoon- 
fuls into smoking-hot fat. 



51 



APRIL. 



z.— Rhubarb Fool. 

Rhubarb fool is made by mixing carefully 
together just before serving equal proportions 
of stewed rhubarb sieved and well-sweetened 
and rich cream, both very cold. 

2. — Potato Pancakes. 

Pare and wash 6 raw potatoes, separate the 
whites and yolks of 2 eggs and whip the 
whites to a stiflf froth. Grate the potatoes 
into a bowl and add quickly to them the 
beaten yolks, ^ of a teaspoonful of salt and 
a tablespoonful of fine bread crumbs. Beat 
this gradually into the whites and fry by 
spoonfuls in smoking-hot fat. 

3. — Turkish Chicken. 

Singe and draw ia good-sized fowl, then 

split and cut each piece in two. In a large 

saucepan melt i tablespoonful of butter, add 

X tablespoonful of chopped onion and ^ of a 

62 



April, 

green pepper seeded and chopped ; cook for 
a moment, lay in the chicken and draw over 
the hot fire, turning until each piece is 
lightly browned. Add i quart of broth or 
water,* 3 cupfuls of strained tomato, i tea- 
spoonful of salt, }4 of & teaspoonful of pa- 
prika or white pepper, 2 cloves, a stalk of 
celery and 2 sprigs of parsley. Cover and 
simmer for one hour. Color with a little 
saffron, add i cupful of well washed rice and 
2 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese ; cook until 
the broth is absorbed and the rice is tender. 
In dishing use a deep platter and arrange the 
chicken over the mound of rice. 

4. — Risotto. 

A good risotto can be made for feast or 
fast day, according to the contents of the 
larder and the wish of the cook. Rice, of 
course, is the foundation and, after picking 
over one cupful, turn it into a kettle contain- 
ing 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, melted and 
hot. Stir occasionally until it begins to take 
on a golden tinge, then add 3 cupfuls of 
canned tomato which has been pressed 
through a sieve. jCover and cook slowly 
63 



ApriU 

until the rice is tender and has absorbed all 
of the liquid, which will take about forty 
minutes. When half done, add salt and 
pepper to taste. If necessary to stir, use a 
fork in order not to break the grains. Just 
before taking up add i large tablespoonful 
of butter cut into bits and }^ of a cupful of 
grated cheese. If some rich broth is on 
hand, substitute it for the tomato, adding at 
the last ^ of a cupful of chopped meat in 
place of the cheese. Bits of cooked ham or 
a few tiny sausages may also be added if de« 
sired. 

5. — Bean Timbales. 
Rub I cupful of baked beans through a 
colander, add to them i cupful of well 
cooked rice, 2 eggs, i teaspoonful of chopped 
onion, i teaspoonful of chopped parsley and 
a dash of cayenne. Beat all together, pour 
into buttered timbale molds, place in a baking 
pan half full of hot water and bake twenty 
minutes. These are good hot or cold. If 
served hot pour around them, after removing 
from the mold, a rich tomato sauce. If 
served cold, cress or a lettuce salad may ac- 
company them. 

64 



ApriU 

6. — Saratoga Onions. 

Peel and thinly slice 3 large white onions 
and soak in milk for ten minutes, then drain 
and dry on a towel. Separate the slices into 
rings, put i dozen or more at a time in the 
frying basket and plunge into smoking hot 
fat. Take out as soon as delicately colored, 
drain for a moment on unglazed paper, turn 
into a heated dish, dust lightly with salt, and 
serve at once. 

7. — Pigs in Blankets. 

Pigs in blankets are oysters wrapped in 
thin slices of bacon and fried over a hot 
fire. Select oysters of medium size and cut 
fat bacon in the thinnest slices possible. 
Wash and dry the oysters then wrap each in 
a slice of the bacon, pinning it with a small 
wooden toothpick. Have the pan hissing 
hot. Put in it as many of the prepared oys- 
ters as will cover the bottom and cook until 
the bacon begins to color and the oysters are 
plumped. Serve on thin slices of hot but- 
tered toast. 

8. — Creole Clams. 

Pick over and wash 25 clams, then cut 
each into four or six pieces. Put in the 
66 



April. 

pan I heaping tablespoonful of butter, a 
cloves, ^ of a bay leaf, a stalk of celery 
and I slice each of onion and carrot. Cook 
until the butter begins to brown, then skim 
out the bay leaf, stir in i heaping table- 
spoonful of flour, blend it in well and add 
gradually i cupful of tomatoes previously 
stewed and strained. When thickened add 
I tablespoonful of finely-chopped green pep- 
per, salt and pepper to taste and the clams. 
Cook for five minutes, add i tablespoonful of 
finely-chopped parsley and serve. 

g. — Steak with Bananas. 

The bananas served with broiled steak are 
peeled and halved, then split. When the 
steak is almost done they are laid in a pan 
in a tablespoonful of hot butter and quickly 
browned. The steak is arranged on a hot 
platter, spread with butter and the delicately- 
browned bananas heaped on it. 

10. — Lobster a rAmericaine. 

From a freshly-boiled lobster remove and 
dice sufficient meat to measure i}i cupfuls. 
56 



April 

In a saucepan put i slightly heaping table- 
spoonful of butter and i tablespoonful of 
minced onion, cover and cook at the side of 
the fire until yellow. Stir in i tablespoonful 
of flour, cook for three minutes, and then 
add gradually i cupful of thick strained 
tomato, salt and paprika or cayenne to taste. 
Add the lobster, stand over hot water and 
cook for ten minutes. Add 2 tablespoonfuls 
of sherry and take from the fire. 



z I.— Rhubarb and Tapioca Pudding. 

Soak I cupful of tapioca in 3 pints of 
water then cook in a double boiler until 
clear. Butter a deep pudding-dish, put in 
the bottom a thick layer of cut rhubarb. 
Add a little grated orange rind and sprinkle 
thickly with sugar ; then cover with half of 
the cooked tapioca, add a pinch of salt and 
dot with bits of butter. Put in a second 
layer of rhubarb, orange rind and sugar, 
the remainder of the tapioca, more butter 
and finish with a covering of rhubarb. Bake 
one hour in a moderate oven and serve warm 
with cream. 

67 



ApriL 

12. — Rice with Figs. 

Wash clean i cupful of pulled figs; then 
cover with lyi cupfuls of cold water; bring 
slowly to a boil, and cook gently until tender. 
Turn into a colander, drain and chop fine. 
Soften I tablespoonful of gelatine in the 
same quantity of cold water, then dissolve in 
I cupful of hot fig syrup. Mix the chopped 
figs with 2 cupfuls of boiled rice, add the 
syrup and gelatine, and pack all into a but- 
tered mold. When cold, unmold and serve 
with cream. 

13. — Deviled Corned Beef. 

From cold corned beef cut thick slices. 
Mix together i tablespoonful of fiour, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of mustard, i teaspoonful of salt, 
^ of a teaspoonful of pepper and sufficient 
Worcestershire to stir to a thick paste. Spread 
a little of this on both sides of each slice and 
broil over a clear hot fire. Cold boiled 
sliced ham may be treated in the same way. 

14. — Lriver Patties. 

Liver patties are made by steaming or boil- 
ing ^ of a pound of lamb's or calf's liver, 

58 



April. 

chopping it fine, seasoning well with salt, 
pepper, catsup and Worcestershire, adding a 
little thick brown sauce and serving in hot 
patty shells. 

15. — Eggs Baked with Cheese. 

In a flat earthen dish melt i teaspoonful of 
butter and let it run over the bottom of the 
dish. Cover with thin slices of cheese and 
dust with white pepper and a little salt. 
Break in carefully as many eggs as the dish 
will hold and place in a hot oven until the 
whites are set then serve at once. 

16.— Little Meat Pies. 

In using up cold meat individual pies will 
please the younger members of the house- 
hold. Either pie crust or a biscuit dough 
containing twice the usual amount of short- 
ening may be used. Line patty pans with 
this, fill with the meat chopped, seasoned 
and moistened with gravy or butter and 
water, cover with a top crust, brush with 
beaten egg yolk and bake in a quick oven. 
Should the amount of meat on hand be small 
mix with it some chopped potato, cold boiled 
rice or hominy. 

50 



April 

17. — Broiled Shad Roe. 

Wash the roe thoroughly and let stand in 
salted water for ten minutes. Place in a 
saucepan with ^ of a teaspoonful of salt, 
cover with boiling water and simmer gently 
for fifteen minutes ; transfer to a bowl of cold 
water until chilled, then drain and dry on a 
towel. If very large and thick split each roe 
lengthwise. Spread with melted butter, dust 
with salt and pepper, place in a greased 
broiler and broil over a clear fire. Serve on 
a hot dish, sprinkling over each piece a little 
lemon juice and chopped parsley and garnish 
with watercress. 

18.— Egg Cutlets. 

Cover 6 eggs with boiling water and sim- 
mer for three-quarters of an hour, transfer to 
cold water until chilled then shell. Into a 
saucepan put 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 4 
tablespoonfuls of flour, i teaspoonful of salt 
and ^ of a teaspoonful of white pepper. 
Stir over the fire until mixed, add gradually 
I pint of hot milk and stir until smooth and 
very thick. Add i teaspoonful of onion 
juice, simmer for five minutes ; take from the 
60 



AprO. 

fire, add i tablespoonful of chopped parsley 
and the eggs, coarsely chopped, then set 
aside until cold and firm. Lightly flour the 
hands and form into small cutlets ; dip each 
into slightly beaten tgg and roll in fine bread 
crumbs. Plunge, a few at a time, into smok- 
ing-hot fat until golden brown and drain on 
unglazed paper. 

xg. — Dried Rusk. 

Dried rusk with milk makes a good lunch 
dish now and then. For the rusk set a 
sponge with 3 cupfuls of milk, i teaspoonful 
of salt, I tablespoonful of sugar, i yeast cake 
and flour to make a drop batter. When very 
light add i cupful of butter creamed with 2 
cupfuls of sugar and 4 eggs, beat and raise 
again. Add flour to make a soft dough, 
knead until smooth, let rise again and form 
into small round balls. Put close together in 
greased pans, raise until doubled in thickness 
and bake in a hot oven. Let stand for a day 
or so then cut in two and dry in the open 
oven until a pale golden color all through. 
Put away in a dry place and they will keep 
for weeks. 



ApriL 

20. — Fish Curry. 

Melt 3 tablespoonfuls of butter in a sauce- 
pan and fry in it 2 large sliced onions, add i 
tablespoonful curry powder and stir well. 
Add salt and i cupful of stock or grated 
almond or cocoanut in water, also juice of ]4 
a lemon and let all boil up for five minutes. 
Now add the fish (uncooked) cut in pieces 
about two inches square and cook in the curry 
for about half an hour. 

21. — Caviare Canapes. 

Cut stale bread in quarter of an inch 
slices and from these stamp out two inch 
circles. Fry them until pale brown in a 
little butter. From some fresh watercress 
strip off all the good leaves and the most 
tender portion of the stems. Wash these 
thoroughly and press in a towel until dry, 
then pound to a pulp. Press again and then 
blend with an equal quantity of creamed but- 
ter. Spread the hot fried bread with this, 
and cover with a thin layer of caviare. 

22.— Baked Shad Roe. 

Wash and simmer the roe until it is 
tender. In a saucepan put ^ of a can 
62 



April 

of tomatoes, i scant teaspoonful of salt, 
^ of a teaspoonful of pepper, i tablespoon- 
ful chopped onion, 3 cloves and a sprig of 
parsley ; simmer for twenty minutes and press 
through a sieve. Return to the fire and 
thicken with i heaping iablespoonful of but- 
ter and I tablespoonful of flour rubbed to- 
gether to a paste. Place the roe on in a 
shallow greased pan, pour over each 2 table- 
spoonfuls of the sauce and bake in a hot oven 
for three-quarters of an hour, basting three 
times with the sauce. Serve with the re- 
mainder of the sauce. 



23. — Banana Sponge. 

Soak ^ of a box of gelatine in ^ of a 
cupful of cold water. Make a boiled custard 
with I j5^ cupfuls of milk, 3 eggs, i cupful of 
sugar and a pinch of salt. Add the soaked 
gelatine, stir until dissolved, strain and set 
aside until cold and beginning to thicken. 
Beat in 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and 
)4 dozen bananas reduced to a pulp by press- 
ing through a sieve or putting through the 
finest cutter of the food chopper. When it 
Again begins to thicken stir in lightly i pint 
63 



April 

of thick cream whipped to a solid froth. 
Turn into a wetted mold and set away until 
firm. 

24. — Chicken Liver Custards. 

One cupful cooked chicken livers, 3 ^gs, 
lyi cupfuls milk, % tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, ^ teaspoonful onion juice, ^ tea- 
spoonful salt, and yi teaspoonful pepper. 
Chop the livers very fine. Beat the eggs 
light, and stir all the ingredients together. 
Pour into small, greased custard cups. Stand 
them in a pan of hot water. Cover the tops 
with a sheet of paper and bake in a moderate 
oven until set. Serve hot, in the cups ; or, 
they may be turned out, if handled with care. 
A stuffed olive or a tiny sprig of parsley 
should garnish the top of each. 

25.— Date Pudding. 

Date pudding is simple and will be greatly 
enjoyed. Mix together a cupfuls of graham 
or whole wheat flour, i cupful of milk, i 
cupful of molasses, i teaspoonful of salt, yi 
of a teaspoonful of soda and i heaping cupful 
of stoned dates cut fine. Steam it in a mold 
for three hours and serve with a liquid sauce. 
64 



ApriU 

26. — Cheese Polenta. 

Cheese polenta is salted com meal mush 
cooked for at least an hour, into which is 
stirred just before serving pepper and i cup- 
ful of grated cheese. It is served plain with 
butter or it may be turned into a shallow 
buttered baking-dish and browned in a quick 
oven. 

a;.— White Curry. 

A white curry may be made with i chicken 
or 2 pounds of veal by using small amount 
of butter and onion,' but not allowing the 
onion to brown. Sprinkle in i^ tablespoon, 
fuls curry powder and stir five minutes. Add 
salt to taste and 2 tablespoonfuls finely 
chopped sweet almonds which have been 
mixed with ^ pint water to form ** almond 
milk." (Grated cocoanut may be substi- 
tuted.) Cook slowly till tender and add 
juice of half of a lemon before serving. 

28.— German Coffee Cake. 

A recipe for coffee cake, which comes 
direct from the Fatherland, calls for a pound 
of raised dough (enough for a small loaf), into 
65 



April 

which is worked 2 tablespoonfuls of soft but- 
ter, yi a cupful of sugar, i beaten egg and 
^ of a nutmeg, grated. Klnead this, roll out 
in a sheet and fit into a shallow pan ; cover 
and keep warm until well raised. Beat 2 eggs 
and add enough powdered sugar to make 
like very thick cream. With a sharp knife 
make slanting cuts all over the light dough, 
and put in these some of the egg mixture. 
Dust thickly with cinnamon and bake in a 
quick oven. 

29.— Tomato Fritters. 

Stew together for half an hour j4 of a can 
of tomatoes, i sliced onion, J^ dozen pep- 
percorns, I scant teaspoonful of salt, i tea- 
spoonful of sugar, 2 sprigs of parsley and i 
clove. Rub together to a paste i heaping 
tablespoonful each of butter and flour. Stir 
in about J^ of a cupful of the tomato, and 
when smoothly blended turn into the sauce- 
pan, stirring steadily until thickened. Cook 
for five minutes and rub through a sieve. 
Have ready i dozen circles of stale bread 
cut almost an inch thick. Gradually baste 
the sauce over the bread until the latter is 
thoroughly saturated, then set aside until 
66 



April, 

cold. Dip each piece into slightly beaten 
tggy roll in fine bread crumbs and fry golden 
brown in smoking hot fat. 

30. — Rhubarb Charlotte. 

Thickly butter an oval mold or deep dish. 
Crumble the inside of a loaf of stale bread 
and measure. For i quart melt 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter and pour it slowly over 
the crumbs, turning them well that the 
mixing may be even. Peal and cut into 
half-inch pieces sufficient rhubarb to measure 
I quart. Fill the dish with alternate layers 
of crumbs and rhubarb, sprinkling sugar 
thickly over each layer of the latter. Finish 
with crumbs, put an extra teaspoonful of 
butter cut into bits over the top and bake in 
a slow oven for from forty-five minutes to an 
hour, according to the thickness of the char- 
lotte. Serve hot or cold. 



67 



NAY. 



z. — Delicious Lemon Custard. 

Five lemons (rind of i grated carefully), 
2 cupfuls sugar, i tablespoonful butter 
(melted), 6 eggs (separated), i cupful milk, 
I tablespoonful sifted flour, i small salt- 
spoonful salt. Scald milk, mix flour to 
smooth paste with sufficient cold water, add 
to milk and boil five minutes. Beat yolks 
and sugar, add to thickened milk when partly 
cool ; stir in also the melted butter little at a 
time. Have whites with salt beaten very 
stiff. To the mixture add alternately the 
whites in small quantities and the juice and 
rind. Pour into two rich crusts and bake 
twenty to twenty-five minutes — or bake in 
small custard cups if preferred. 

2. — Cheese Gnocchi. 

Mix together 2 tablespoonfuls each of flour 
and corn-starch and ^ of a teaspoonful of 
salt. In a saucepan melt 2 tablespoonfuls of 
68 



butter, add the dry mixture and, when well 
blended, i pint of hot milk. Stir until 
smooth and thick, cover and cook slowly for 
five minutes. Add ^ of a cupful of grated 
cheese and the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, take 
from the fire, turn into a shallow buttered 
pan and set aside until cold. Turn out, cut 
in any fancy shapes, sprinkle thickly with 
cheese and brown in a shaip oven. 

3.— Potatoes Casserole, Turkey Filling. 

A somewhat unusual way to serve cold 
meat, especially poultry, is in combination 
with a potato casserole. For this prepare i 
quart of mashed potatoes, seasoning well, and 
adding, when partly cooled, the beaten yolks 
of 2 eggs. Pack into a well-greased border 
mold, and turn carefully out on a fireproof 
serving dish, or mold with the hands so as to 
form an oval or circular wall. Cut the cold 
meat into small neat pieces, and for each pint 
prepare i^ cupfuls of thick sauce, cream 
sauce for poultry or veal, brown sauce for 
any dark meat. Season well, and heat the 
meat in it. Brush the casserole over with 
beaten egg, place it in a hot oven until 



golden yellow, then fill the centre with the 
meat and garnish with a little chopped 
parsley. 

4.— Rhode Island Chowder. 

Cut % oi z. pound of fat salt pork into 
thin slices, place in the bottom of a large 
kettle and slowly cook until well tried out 
and brown on both sides. Have ready 7 
pounds of cod or any firm-fleshed white fish 
cut in large pieces and 10 good-sized onions 
peeled and sliced. Lift out the pork leaving 
the fat in the kettle. Lay in as many pieces 
of the fish as will cover the bottom, add a 
thick layer of the sliced onions, salt and 
pepper to season. Alternate until the ma- 
terials are used up, adding the pieces of fried 
pork before the last layer of fish. Pour over 
sufficient boiling water to come to the top of 
the fish, place on the fire, cover and when 
the water boils keep at a gentle bubble for 
half an hour. Pour in i quart of cider and 
I glassful of port ; add 2 pounds of sea bis- 
cuits which have been broken and soaked in 
cold water for five minutes. Taste, add 
more seasoning if necessary and boil for five 
70 



May. 

minutes longer. Serve boiled potatoes sepa- 
rately. 

5. — Kentucky Potatoes. 

Pare and thinly slice 6 large potatoes, 
wash and soak them in cold water for half an 
hoiu*. Place in a baking-dish, season with i 
scant teaspoonful of salt and J^ of a tea- 
spoonful of white pepper, pour over them ^ 
of a pint of milk and bake in a hot oven un- 
til tender — about forty minutes. When half 
done add j4 of sl tablespoonful of butter. 

6.— Vegetable Curry. 

Pour ^ pint of boiling water mixed with i 
tablespoonful curry powder into 2 tablespoon- 
fuls butter in which i large sliced onion has 
been fried, and add salt and lemon juice. 
After cooking this for five minutes add i pint 
of green peas, i turnip, 3 carrots and 3 po- 
tatoes, all having been separately cooked 
previously. Let them remain in the curry 
for ten minutes and serve all together. 

7.— Spaghetti with Toast Points. 

To cook spaghetti in the Italian method — 
with sticks unbroken — is simple. The kettle, 
71 



inky* 

a large one, is well filled with salted water. 
While at a rapid boil the long sticks held to- 
gether in the hand are gradually lowered into 
the water; as they soften and bend they are 
coiled round until entirely submerged. From 
fifteen minutes to half an hour will be re- 
quired for cooking according to the thickness 
of the sticks and the quality of the wheat 
used. When tender the spaghetti should be 
drained in a colander and cold water poured 
through it to rinse off the loose starch. If to 
be kept for several hours or longer before 
being used it should be covered with cold 
water. When used it is drained and re- 
heated in a tomato, milk or brown sauce or 
a simple butter dressing; to any of these 
grated cheese may be added if desired, and 
toast points used as a garnish. 

8. — Chicken with Cocoanut. 

Stew a chicken and remove the bones. 
Grate a cocoanut and cover it with water for 
ten minutes; strain it and add more water. 
This again should be strained through a bag 
of coarse cheesecloth and the rich liquor re- 
sulting (about a pint) added to the chicken. 
Cook slowly a few minutes and thicken with 
72 



2 tablespoonfuls of flour mixed smoothly in 
cold water, ^ teaspoonful salt and 3 tea- 
spoonfuls of turmeric powder. Let all cook 
up with the chicken, then lay it on a platter 
surrounded by boiled rice and covered partly 
by gravy. 

9. — Rice Cups. 
Pick over and wash 2 cupfuls of rice. 
Drop into a kettle of boiling salted water and 
keep at a galloping boil for ten minutes then 
drain and turn into a double boiler. Add 
sufficient hot milk to cover and cook until 
the rice is tender and the milk entirely ab- 
sorbed. Pack into half a dozen buttered 
cups and set aside until next day. Turn 
them out and scoop out the centres leaving a 
half-inch wall. Brush with melted butter, 
place on a greased pan and stand in a hot 
oven until golden brown. Fill with aspara- 
gus tips which have been drained from the 
can, rinsed in cold water and heated over hot 
water with the addition of a little butter and 
a good seasoning of salt and pepper. 

10. — Bean Curry. 

Soak and parboil i pint of small white 
beans. Put them in a two-quart bean pot. 
73 



May. 

Fry 4 large onions sliced thin in a tablespoon- 
ful of butter. When nicely browned add i 
tablespoonful of salt, i tablespoonful of curry 
powder, ^ teaspoonful of dry mustard, ^ 
of a teaspoonful of cayenne and i pint of 
water; pour over the beans, fill the pot with 
boiling water and bake ten hours. Replen- 
ish with boiling water as fast as the beans be- 
come dry. There should be a thick piquant 
gravy about the beans when done. Serve 
with boiled rice. 



II.— Baked Spanish Onions. 

Select medium-sized Spanish onions, trim 
off the roots without cutting, and do not re- 
move the skin. Place in a saucepan, add 
just enough boiling water to cover and ^ of 
a teaspoonful of salt and simmer gently for 
one hour. Drain thoroughly, then wrap each 
separately in a piece of heavy white paper — 
glazed writing paper is best — ^place close to- 
gether in a shallow, buttered pan and bake 
in a moderate oven from one hour to one 
hour and a half, according to size. Have 
ready a hot dish. Lift each carefully from 
its covering to the dish, pour round them a 
74 



cupful of white sauce and sprinkle with a 
little finely-chopped parsley. 

12.— Clam and Egg Scramble. 

Wash and scrub i dozen hard-shelled 
clams, put into a saucepan with J^ of a cup- 
ful of water, cover closely and cook until the 
shells open. Take out the clams and chop 
them fine; the liquor maybe set aside for 
other uses. Beat slightly 5 eggs, add the 
chopped clams and 4 tablespoonfuls of their 
liquor. Melt i tablespoonful of butter in the 
chafing dish, turn in the mixture and stir 
over hot water until cooked to a soft scram- 
ble. Dust with black pepper and serve 
quickly. 

13.— Rice Souffli. 

Blend 3 tablespoonfuls each of sifted fiour 
and butter in a clean saucepan ; then add i 
cup of milk ; place over the fire and stir con- 
stantly until the mixture thickens and is very 
smooth ; then add i cup of grated cheese and 
the yolks of 3 eggs beaten light. Season to 
taste with salt. Fold in the stifily beaten 
whites of the eggs. Have ready a buttered 
baking dish, lined bottom and sides with 
76 



Hay. 

boiled rice. Into this turn the mixture, and 
bake in a rather slow oven twenty-five min- 
utes. Serve as soon as taken from the oven, 
and without re-dishing. 

14. — Maryland Chicken. 

Clean and cut into pieces as for a fricassee. 
Wipe each piece with a dry cloth, dip into 
slightly-beaten tgg and roll in fine bread- 
crumbs. Arrange in a deep, buttered pan 
and place in a hot oven for three-quarters of 
an hour, basting three times with melted 
butter. 

Make a broth with the neck and tips of the 
wings. Into a clean saucepan put i table- 
spoonful of butter, i tablespoonful of flour, 
^ of a teaspoonful of salt and a dash of 
white pepper. Stir until well mixed, add 
gradually i cupful of the broth, and when 
thickened add i sprig of parsley, ^ of a bay 
leaf, I sprig of thyme, i slice of onion and 
^ of a green pepper. Simmer for ten min- 
utes, strain into a double boiler or clean sauce- 
pan, add }^ of a cupful of liquor from a can 
of mushrooms, 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped 
mushrooms and more seasoning if necessary. 
76 



While the chicken is being transferred to a 
hot platter mix together the beaten yolks of 2 
eggs and }^ of a cupful of cream, and add to 
the sauce. Stir for a moment longer, then 
take quickly from the fire and add i table- 
spoonful of lemon juice. Pour round the 
chicken and garnish with sprigs of parsley 
and strips of crisply-fried bacon. 

15. — Asparagus Toast. 

Cut cold, boiled asparagus into half-inch 
bits with a silver knife ; if the supply is plen- 
tiful only the tips need be used. For a pint, 
toast 6 or 8 thin slices of stale bread and 
keep warm. In a saucepan mix i tablespoon- 
ful of butter, i tablespoonful of flour, ^ of a 
teaspoonful of salt and ^ of a teaspoonful of 
white pepper. Stir in gradually i cupful of 
hot milk. When thick and smooth simmer 
for five minutes, then add the prepared as- 
paragus and draw to the side of the fire, or 
stand over hot water until the asparagus is 
heated. Dip each slice of toast, for an in- 
stant, in slightly salted boiling water, spread 
on a hot platter and pour the contents of the 
saucepan over it. 

W 



May. 

z6, — Lobster Patties. 

Canned lobster can now be had in glass 
jars and even the brands put up in tin are so 
carefully prepared that one need not fear to 
use them. Open the cans early in the day 
and turn out, cut into tiny bits with a silver 
knife and let stand in a cool place until 
needed. This aeration removes any tinny 
flavor which might possibly ding to the meat. 
Prepare a thick white sauce, using- 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter and 2 tablespoonfuls of 
flour to each J^ pint of very rich milk and 
season with salt, pepper and a little lemon 
juice. Do not add the lobster until the last 
thing — just in time to have it get very hot 
through. Heat the pattie cases in the oven, 
fill with the lobster and serve. 

17.— Pea Pudding, 

Pick over, wash and soak ij^ cupfuls 
of dried green peas over night. Put on in 
a kettle of cold water with i teaspoonful of 
salt and simmer slowly until very tender ; 
drain and rub through a sieve, then set aside 
until cold (the pot liquor can be used as stock 
for maigre soup). Season highly with salt 
78 



May. 

and pepper, add 2 well-beaten eggs, turn into 
a floured pudding cloth, drop into salted boil- 
ing water and boil hard for an hour. Turn 
out on a heated dish and serve with butter. 

18. — Squabs Parisienne. 

Clean the squabs, put in each >^ of a tea- 
spoonful of butter and 2 chopped pirn olas. 
Truss neatly, roast in a hot oven and serve 
on heart-shaped bread croutons. 

19.— Potato Chowder. 

Pare and cut into dice 6 large potatoes ; 
chop fine i onion ; put }i of sl pound of fat 
ham or salt pork through the chopper. Cook 
the meat and onion slowly together in a sauce- 
pan until the latter begins to color. Add the 
potatoes, I tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
^ of a teaspoonful of salt and ^ of a tea- 
spoonful white pepper and mix ; then add i 
pint of boiling water and stew gently until 
the potatoes are almost done. In the mean- 
time make a sauce with i iablespoonful of 
butter, I heaping tablespoonful of flour and 
I pint of milk. Pour this into the first sauce- 
pan, add more salt and pepper as may be 
necessary and simmer for five minutes longer. 
79 



ao. — Strawberry Dauphines. 
{A French Recipe,) 

Have ready i dozen pastry shells that have 
been baked and allowed to cool; fill with 
strawberry jam, or whole preserved strawber- 
ries. Whip I pint of rich cream with 3 ta- 
blespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and season 
with a few drops of orange extract. Pile this 
quite high on the pastry, and put one or two 
preserved or candied strawberries on the top. 



21. — Shrimps a la Newburg. 

Open and pick over a can of shrimps, then 
let them stand for at least a couple of hours. 
Put into the chafing-dish 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter and i tablespoonful of flour; light the 
lamp and slip the hot water pan underneath. 
When melted and mixed add >i of a cupful 
of cream, stir until it thickens, then add the 
shrimps, 3 tablespoonfuls of sherry and salt 
and pepper to taste. Simmer for two min- 
utes, stir in 2 well-beaten eggs ; in half a 
minute extinguish the lamp and stir until the 
sauce is creamy, then serve. 
80 



Shy* 

32.— Rice Flour Blanc Mange. 

Measure 3 pints of milk. Take from 
it sufficient to mix % oi z, pound of rice flour 
to a thin paste and scald the repiainder in a 
double boiler. Dissolve in the hot milk ^ 
of a cupful of sugar and }i of sl teaspoonful 
of salt ; add the rice flour paste and stir un- 
til smooth and thick. Cover and cook for 
fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally; then 
take from the fire, add any preferred flavor- 
ing and pour into wetted molds. Serve very 
cold with cream or a boiled custard. 

23.— Cupped Hash. 

Mince the meat and season well ; if the 
quantity is scant eke it out with a portion of 
bread crumbs, using bread which is only a 
few days old. For each cupful beat an egg* 
add X spoonful of gravy or milk and i tea- 
spoonful of melted butter, and mix it with 
the meat. Butter the requisite number of 
cups, pack the meat in it, stand in a pan 
partly filled with hot water and bake in a hot 
oven for twenty minutes. Serve with a 
tomato or brown sauce. 
81 



24. — Ham Balls. 

Into a double boiler put J^ of a cupful of 
milk and 2 tablespoonfuls of fine dry bread 
crumbs; cook, stirring occasionally until it 
is a smooth paste. Add ^ of a cupful of 
finely-chopped cold boiled ham, i table- 
spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, 10 drops 
of onion juice and the beaten yolk of i egg. 
Stir until thickened, then turn out and set 
aside until cold. Form into small balls, dip 
each one into slightly beaten egg (the white 
diluted with a teaspoonful of warm water may 
be used) and roll in fine dry crumbs. Place 
in a frying-basket and plunge into smoking- 
hot fat. When golden brown drain for a 
moment on unglazed paper, pile on a dish on 
a napkin and garnish with parsley. 

25.— Potted Poultry Livers. 

Put the livers into a saucepan with J^ of a 
teaspoonful of salt, 2 cloves and ^ of a bay 
leaf for each pound. Cover with boiling 
water and simmer gently until very tender. 
Put aside until next day, chop the meat fine, 
then pound it to a pulp, moistening from 
time to time with a little of the liquor as may 



May. 

be necessary. Taste and add more season- 
ing if desired. Add for each pound of the 
meat ^ of a pound of butter which has 
been melted and poured off free from sedi- 
ment. Beat well together, press into small 
jars and steam for an hour. When partly 
cooled pour over them ^ of an inch layer of 
melted butter and put away in a cold place. 

26.~Steamed Fruit Roll. 
Short cake dough can be turned into quite 
a dainty dessert by rolling it out in a long 
sheet half an inch thick, spreading with a 
layer of marmalade, rolling up tightly, lay- 
ing on a plate, steaming for half an hour 
then placing in the oven long enough to dry 
off. In place of marmalade, fresh fruits with 
a sprinkling of sugar may be used in their 
season, or dried fruits such as stoned prunes 
or dates, cut figs or seeded raisins mixed 
with sugar and a pinch of cinnamon or a 
little chopped citron. With this fruit roll, a 
soft sauce should be served. 

27.— Stuffed Egg Salad. 
Cook 6 eggs in boiling water for half an 
hour, chill and shell them. Cut in halves 



May. 

lengthwise and remove the yolks without 
breaking the whites. Mash the yolks to a 
smooth paste with 2 tablespoonfuls of mayon- 
naise; add 3 tablespoonfuls of potted or 
deviled ham, i teaspoonful of lemon juice, 
^ of a teaspoonful of made mustard and a 
dash of cayenne. Refill the whites heaping 
them with the mixture. Arrange on lettuce 
leaves and serve with an extra dish of mayon- 
naise. 

28. — Corn-starch Meringue. 

Scald I pint of milk, add 2 scant table- 
spoonfuls of corn-starch mixed to a smooth 
paste with cold milk, stir until smooth and 
thick, cover and cook for half an hour. Beat 
together the yolks of 3 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar and ^ of a teaspoonful of salt ; add 
to the corn-starch and stir for five minutes ; 
then flavor and turn into a pudding dish. 
Cover with a meringue made by whipping 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff glossy froth 
with 3 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar; 
dust with a little more sugar and put into a 
moderate oven until pale brown. Serve 
cold. 

84 



sg. — Cream of Asparagus Soup. 

Wash and scrape i bunch of asparagus, 
cover with i quart of boiling water and boil 
for twenty minutes. Lift out the stalks, re- 
move and set aside the tips; cut the stalks 
into inch pieces, return to the kettle and 
cook uncovered until very tender, then rub 
all through a sieve. Scald i pint of milk in 
a double boiler, add 2 tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter rubbed to a paste with 2 tablespoonfuls of 
flour and stir until thick and smooth. Add 
the asparagus pulp and liquid and season to 
taste with salt and pepper. Add the reserved 
tips and simmer for five minutes longer. 

30. — Surprise Potatoes. 

Select potatoes of the same size and of 
good shape. Wash and scrub them, then 
bake in a hot oven until done. Cut off the 
top of each and with a spoon scrape out into 
a bowl, being careful not to break the shells. 
For 4 good-sized potatoes allow i teaspoonful 
of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of hot cream, salt 
and pepper to taste and the whites of 2 eggs. 
Put through a potato press, add the butter, 
cream and seasoning and whip well. Cut in 
86 



May* 

lightly the whites of the eggs whipped to a 
stiflf dry froth. Refill the shells, replace the 
covers and return to the oven until very hot. 

31. — Green-pea Timbales. 

After picking over and washing, soak dried 
green peas over night in plenty of cold water. 
Drain, add fresh water, heat slowly and sim- 
mer until very soft. Drain (the liquid may 
be used for soup or some other dish) and 
rub the peas through a fine sieve. To i 
pint of this pulp add 4 well-beaten eggs, 
^ of a cupful of thick cream, J^ of a tea- 
spoonful of onion juice, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter and salt and pepper to season 
very highly. Fill small buttered timbale 
molds with the mixture, place in a pan 
partly filled with hot water, cover with but- 
tered paper and place in a hot oven until 
firm in the centre. Turn out carefully on a 
heated platter and pour round them a cream 
sauce to which a few whole peas have been 
added. 



86 



JUNE. 

I. — Strawberries with Blanched Cream. 
Take i pint of very thick sweet cream, add 
sugar and orange flower water to taste, and 
bring it to the boiling point. Beat the whites 
of lo eggs with a little cold sweet cream, and 
pour them into the scalded cream. Stir con- 
stantly until it comes to a thick curd, then 
remove from the fire, strain it through a hair 
sieve, and beat well with a spoon until it is 
cold. Just before serving pour the cream 
into a deep glass dish half filled with fine, 
ripe, sweetened strawberries. 

2. — Baked Cherry Pudding. 
Stone I pint of sour cherries, make a bat- 
ter of 2 cupfuls of flour, I teaspoonful of salt, 
2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder sifted with 
the flour, i cupful of sweet milk, }i a cupful 
of sugar, 2 eggs, i tablespoonful of butter, }i 
a teaspoonful of cloves ; add the cherries last, 
and bake in a buttered mold thirty min- 
utes. Serve with wine sauce or with sweet- 
ened cream. 

87 



June. 

3. — Tipsy Pudding. 
Place a stale sponge cake in a glass serv- 
ing-dish. At intervals pour over it a few 
spoonfuls of sherry until the cake is evenly 
moistened. Prepare a soft custard with i 
pint of milk, 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar and 3 
eggs. When done add i teaspoonful of 
vanilla and pour over the cake, then set aside 
and serve very cold. Pieces of stale cake 
may be substituted for the loaf, and before 
serving the dish may be decorated with dots 
of any bright-colored jelly, with candied 
cherries or with the white of an egg, whipped 
to a meringue with a heaping tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar. 

4. — Lobster Pillau. 
A pillau of lobster may be a novelty — it 
certainly is very good. Open a half pound 
can, turn out and let stand for an hour or 
two before using. Pick over and wash well 
^ of a cupful of rice. Put into a saucepan 
with 2 tablespoonfuls of butter and cook 
slowly, stirring often until the grains are yel- 
low. Add j4 of a teaspoonful of salt, J^ of 
a teaspoonful of pepper, the liquid drained 
88 



June. 

from the lobster and i cupful of boiling 
water^ cover and cook gently, adding from 
time to time a little more boiling water but 
no more than the rice can absorb. Stir a 
little, and only with a fork, that the grains 
may not be broken. When the rice is tender 
add the cut lobster which has been sprinkled 
with I tablespoonful of lemon juice and i 
tablespoonful of butter, turn through care- 
fully, cover and draw aside where it will keep 
very hot for ten minutes. 

5.— Southern Fried Chicken. 
Clean and cut up 2 tender chickens. Re- 
move the breastbones with a sharp knife, 
leaving two " fillets," and take out the necks, 
backbones and ends of wings for chicken 
broth. Wipe carefully with a clean cloth, 
roll in flour and place in a dripping-pan 
in which is a deep layer of very hot fat, using 
half lard and half nice drippings. Cover the 
pan closely, seasoning with pepper. Cook 
slowly in the oven from one hour to an hour 
and a half, turning once and salting when 
the chicken is a golden brown. When very 
tender and browned, place the chicken on a 
hot platter and make a gravy in the pan in 
88 



June^ 

which it was fried, pouring oflf all fat, leaving 
only 2 tablespoonfuls in the pan; add 2 
tablespoonfuls of flour, and gradually i cup- 
ful of milk and i cupful of cream. Pour 
gravy over the chicken and serve. 

6. — White Pudding with Strawberries. 
A pudding made with corn-starch or gela- 
tine can be molded in an oval form lined with 
lady fingers. When turned out it is prettily 
garnished with whole strawberries. 

7. — Ham Canapes. 

Cut stale bakers' bread in thin slices and 
from these stamp out crescents and circles. 
Melt a little butter in a frying-pan, and when 
hot quickly fry the bread on both sides to a 
pale brown. Chop fine some cold-boiled 
lean ham, season with paprika and a very lit- 
tle French mustard. Moisten with a little 
sweet cream, and spread on the canap^. 
Sprinkle thickly with grated Swiss cheese, 
and place in a moderate oven until the cheese 
melts and begins to brown. Sprinkle with a 
little finely chopped parsley and hard-boiled 
egg white. 

90 



June. 

8. — Princess Pudding with Cherries. 

Cover I ounce of gelatine with J^ pint of 
cold water, let stand ten minutes, add i pint 
of boiling water, stir it well, then add i cup- 
ful of granulated sugar, the strained juice of 
2 lemons, and set aside to cool. When it 
begins to cool, whip, and as it stiffens add the 
whites of 2 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and 
y^ pint of cherries, stoned and cut in half. 
Turn into a mold, cover and pack in ice. 
When about to serve, unmold, and pour about 
it a custard made of the yolks of the eggs, ^ 
pint of milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, and i 
teaspoonful of almond extract. 

9. — Bretonne Puree. 

To make Bretonne pur6e, thinly slice 4 
large onions, cover with boiling water and 
let stand for ten minutes, then drain and put 
into a stewpan with J^ a teaspoonful of salt, 
^ of a teaspoonful of pepper, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of butter and i tablespoonful of sugar ; 
shake and cook slowly until glazed and 
browned. Add i pint of rich brown stock 
or sauce and i pint of water, and simmer for 
thirty minutes. Press through a sieve, return 
91 



to the fire and thicken slightly, adding 
soning if necessary. 



10. — Strawberry Salad. 

Use for this large firm berries which have 
been hulled, washed and drained. Arrange 
washed and dried lettuce leaves on a platter 
so as to form small cups and fill each cup 
with the berries. Sprinkle them with a few 
drops of lemon juice, pour over the berries in 
each cup i teaspoonful of rather thin mayon- 
naise (made with lemon juic^ in place of 
vinegar), garnish the dish with strawberry 
leaves and send to the table. 

II.— French Giblet Stew. 

Wash the giblets, neck and pinions of a 
fowl, put into a saucepan with i quart of 
cold water, bring to the boiling point and 
simmer for an hour. Take out and chop the 
liver, heart and gizzard, return to the sauce- 
pan with I cupful of finely-diced potato, i 
diced cucumber and 2 tablespoon fuls of 
finely-chopped onion. Simmer for half an 
hour longer, remove neck and pinions, take 
off the meat on them and return to the soup. 



June. 

Season well with salt and pepper, add x 
tablespoonful of flour rubbed to a paste with 
I tablespoonful of butter and stir until 
slightly thickened. Take from the fire, add 
I tablespoonful of chopped parsley and the 
well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs and serve. 

12. — Strawberry Sago. 

Strawberry sago calls for J^ a cupful of 
sago which is cooked in i quart of water or 
milk until transparent. A pinch of salt is 
added with ^ of a cupful of sugar, and 
when dissolved, i pint of berries stirred in 
and cooked for a moment before taking from 
the fire. 

13. — Clams a la Bechamel. 

Put I heaping tablespoonful of butter and 

1 tablespoonful of finely chopped onion in a 
stewpan and cook until the onion changes 
color. Add i heaping tablespoonful of flour 
and, when mixed, i cupful of milk and y^ of 
a cupful of clam juice. Stir until thick, add 

2 dozen finely chopped clams, cover and 
cook for ten minutes. Potu: in i beaten 
egg, remove from the fire, stir a moment 
longer, then serve. 

93 



June. 

14. — Shrimps a la Creole. 

Pick over and wash the shrimps. In the 
chafing-dish put i heaping tablespoonful of 
butter and 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped green 
pepper and cook for three minutes; add i 
teaspoonful of chopped onion and cook un- 
til the onion begins to brown. Add i cup- 
ful of tomato pulp and ^ cupful of very rich 
beef stock. When boiling, add the shrimps, 
season to taste and simmer for five minutes. 

15.— Potato Cherry Pudding. 
To I pint of cold mashed potatoes add i 
pound of flour, a piece of butter the size of 
^^ egg, I teaspoonful of salt, ^ of a tea- 
spoonful of ginger, i egg and sufficient milk 
to kneed this to a stiff dough. Roll and 
spread thickly with stoned sour cherries, 
sprinkle over liberally with sugar, mold in 
the shape of a dumpling, tie a well-floured 
cloth loosely around it and boil two hours. 
Serve with sweet sauce. 

x6. — Franconia Potatoes. 

For franconia potatoes to serve with roast 

beef peel and parboil the potatoes for five 

minutes, then drain and lay in the pan with 

94 



June. 

the roast an hour before it is to be taken from 
the oven. 

17. — Cherry Fritters. 
Remove the stems and stones from some 
ripe cherries. Roll them in the white of an 
egg, beaten with i tablespoonful of water ; 
then in chopped blanched almonds; dip 
them one by one in a thick fritter batter, ar- 
range in a frying-basket and plunge into very 
hot fat. When brown, remove, drain on 
blotting paper and serve on a folded napkin. 
Pass toasted wafers with the fritters. 

18. — Cheese Straws. 

Roll some puff paste out very thin. 
Sprinkle it with dry grated cheese (Parmesan 
preferred to any other kind), dust with a few 
grains of cayenne pepper, roll over and over 
in flat folds, and roll out again very thin. 
Sprinkle again with cheese and roll and fold 
as before, repeat this three times. Cut with a 
pastry jagger or sharp knife into strips four 
inches long. Sprinkle again with cheese, 
put one inch apart in a flat pan and bake in 
a rather hot oven until a light brown. Lift 
ofl* on unglazed paper and let stand until 
95 



June. 

cold. When cold tie ten or twelve loosely 
together with baby ribbon and place at each 
person's plate at table. 

19. — Duchesse Toast. 

Prepare a batter with i cupful of milk, i 
well-beaten egg, ^ of a cupful of sugar, fi 
of a cupful of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of melted 
butter. Cut stale bread into fingers four 
inches long, one inch wide and one-half inch 
thick. Drop them into the batter, leaving 
them in it long enough to become soft with- 
out breaking. Fry brown in a little hot but- 
ter, dust each with powdered sugar and serve 
with I spoonful of jelly on top. 

20.— Rice Pillau. 
Take the water in which a ham or chicken 
has been boiled and skim off the fat. Wash 
the rice thoroughly in several waters and 
drain. Have the pot liquor boiling hard, 
throw in the rice and boil rapidly until half 
done. Drain off part of the liquor, leaving 
enough to finish cooking without burning the 
rice, add ^ dozen whole allspice and liberal 
dashes of black pepper, cover closely and 
cook gently until the liquid is absorbed and 
96 



June. 

the rice is tender. Serve with the boiled 
meat. 

21, — Strawberry Pudding. 
Make a corn-starch pudding with the yolks 
of 3 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch, 4 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, and i quart of milk. 
Flavor with lemon. When it is partly cool, 
stir in very gently i quart of fine sweet 
strawberries, and turn into a mold. Put on 
ice until firm. Just before serving, turn it 
into a glass dish and cover with fine ripe 
strawberries. Make a meringue with the 
whites of the eggs and 4 tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar, and spread over the pud- 
ding. Serve very cold. This is delicious on 
a hot day. 

22. — Chicken Liver Timbales. 

Three-quarters cupful cooked chicken 
liver, }i cupful boiled rice, whites of 3 eggs, 
yolk of I egg, ^ cupful of cream, .1 tea- 
spoonful lemon juice, i teaspoonful chopped 
parsley, yi teaspoonful onion juice, }i tea- 
spoonful salt, ^ teaspoonful grated nutmeg, 
}i teaspoonful white pepper. Chop the liver 
very fine and press the rice through a ricer 
97 



June^ 

or a sieve ; then stir both together thoroughly. 
Add all the other ingredients, with the excep- 
tion of the whites of eggs. Mix well, then 
fold in lightly the whites, which have been 
beaten very stiff. Fill greased timbale molds, 
set in pan of hot water and bake about fifteen 
minutes, or until firm. Turn out carefully 
and serve hot with sauce supreme. 

23. — Cherry Bread. 

When cherries are plentiful an easily made 
dessert, called cherry bread, will be liked 
for either luncheon or dinner. Butter thick 
slices of stale bread and arrange a layer on 
a platter or in a deep glass serving dish. 
Stew the cherries and sweeten them to taste. 
Pour a portion of the hot fruit and juice over 
the bread, add another layer of bread and 
fruit, and so on until the fruit is all used; 
there should be sufficient liquid to thoroughly 
soak the bread. Serve very cold with cream. 
Other berries may be used in the same way. 

24.— ■Marrow Toast. 

Purchase a long marrow bone, have the 

butcher split it and remove the marrow. Cut 

this into inch pieces and wash in very cold 

98 



June. 

water to remove any splinters of bone which 
may be clinging to it. In a bowl put i tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, ^ of a teaspoonful 
of salty I drop of tabasco and lo drops of 
onion juice and place the bowl in a sauce- 
pan of hot water at the side of the fire. 
Have ready also i teaspoonful of finely- 
chopped parsley and squares of thin, slightly 
buttered toast. Having everything ready 
and hot, drop the marrow in a saucepan of 
salted water and boil rapidly for two minutes. 
Quickly skim it out, drop into the bowl con- 
taining the hot seasoning, add the parsley, 
mix it carefully for an instant, spread on the 
toast and serve at once. The chief require- 
ment of this dish is that it shall be served 
piping hot. 

25. — Philadelphia Potatoes. 
A new dish is Philadelphia potatoes. Boil 
small new potatoes in their jackets and let 
cool, then skin them and cut in thin slices. 
For 3 cupfuls so prepared make a sauce with 
I heaping tablespoonful of butter, i heaping 
tablespoonful of fiour, i}^ cupfuls of milk 
and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Butter 
a shallow dish, put in half of the potatoes, 



June^ 

season them, add half the sauce, then the 
remainder of the potatoes and sauce. Over 
all pour I well-beaten egg and bake in a 
quick oven until the egg is set. 

a6«— Cherry Shortcake. 

Chop up, with a silver knife, after pitting 
them, some fine sweet cherries, and sift over 
the fruit a generous layer of sugar ; set aside 
for an hour before making the shortcake, to 
form juice. For the pastry make rich biscuit 
crust. Into i pint of sifted flour — 2 cupfuls 
— mix a little salt and 2 level teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. Sifl again, and rub in 
I tablespoonful each of lard and butter. Add 
I well-beaten tgg and enough milk to make 
a dough to roll out. Bake in a biscuit-pan 
in two layers half an inch thick; to keep 
them separate, place flecks of butter between. 
This requires a quick oven, as for biscuit. 
When done, cut the crust into individual 
pieces and spread the prepared cherries be- 
tween and on top. Serve with whipped 
cream, flavored with the remainder of juice. 

27.— Blue Pish Salad. 

Remove the skin and bones from 2 pounds 
of steamed or boiled blue fish and break into 
100 



June. 

good-sized flakes. Cover with a French 
dressing made with ^ of a teaspoonful of 
salty ^ of a teaspoonful of white pepper, 
4 tablespoonfuls of olive oil and i table- 
spoonful of vinegar and let stand for at least 
one hour. Arrange on a bed of lettuce or 
nastiurtium leaves and serve with mayonnaise 
or a boiled dressing. If blue fish cannot be 
procured any other firm-fleshed fish may be 
used in its place. 

28.— Bouillon Potatoes. 
Pare the potatoes and cut them into small 
balls, ovals or cubes. Parboil in salted water 
for five minutes. Drain, place in a sauce- 
pan, add sufficient boiling-hot bouillon or 
clear stock to cover and simmer gently until 
tender. Drain and serve in a hot dish sprink- 
ling with a little finely-chopped parsley. 

ag.— Cherries with Rice Cream. 
Cook }i a cupful of washed rice five 
minutes in boiling water ; drain, add i pint 
of milk and cook over hot water until tender 
and the milk is absorbed ; add ^ teaspoonful 
of salt, 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar, i table- 
spoonful of butter and i teaspoonful of lemon 



June. 

extract. Pour into small timbale molds, set 
them in a pan of hot water and cook in 
the oven fifteen minutes. In the meanwhile 
make a syrup of i cupful of sugar and i cup- 
ful of water, boiling for ten minutes; add 
2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and i pint of 
pitted cherries. Cook five minutes. Turn 
the rice timbales into a serving dish, pour 
around them the sauce and serve. 

30.— Puree of Artichokes. 

Boil I quart of peeled artichokes with 
I slice of onion and ^ of a teaspoonful of 
summer savory, in salted water until very 
soft. Cook them until nearly all of the water 
is evaporated, then press through a colander. 
Return to the fire and add i pint of thick 
cream, a seasoning of cayenne pepper, a sprig 
of parsley and i teaspoonful of corn-starch 
blended with i tablespoonful of butter. Let it 
simmer three minutes. Serve with shredded 
biscuits toasted and buttered. 



102 



JULY. 



I.— Puree of Rice. 

This is excellent with any boiled meats ; 
the liquor in which the meat was boiled is to 
be used as a basis. Wash }i a cupful of rice, 
add to it I quart of meat or fowl liquor, i 
teaspoonful salt, i onion cut small, and a few 
small sprigs of parsley. Simmer gently one 
hour, then force through a strainer. Blend 
I tablespoonful of butter with i tablespoonful 
of flour, add to the purfee, let boil up once 
and serve. A few green peas or a cupful of 
tomato may be added. 

2. — Deviled Tomatoes. 

Choose firm large tomatoes and cut three 
in rather thick slices without peeling. Dust 
each with salt and pepper, dip in flour and 
fry quickly in hot butter. In the meantime 
cream well 2 tablespoonfuls of butter with i 
teaspoonful of powdered sugar, ^ of a tea- 
spoonful of salt, ^ of a teaspoonful of dry 
103 



July. 

mustard and a dash of cayenne. Into the 
mashed yolk of i hard-boiled egg work 
smoothly i raw egg slightly beaten and a ta- 
blespoonfuls of vinegar, add to the creamed 
mixture and cook over hot water until thick- 
ened. Transfier the browned tomatoes to a 
hot platter, pour over the dressing and serve. 

3.— Potatoes Hashed in Cream. 

Coarsely chop sufficient cold boiled pota- 
toes to measure i pint. Season well with 
salt and white pepper and put in a saucepan 
with I cupful of thin cream. Place at the 
side of the fire where they will cook slowly 
and shake from time to time until the cream 
is nearly absorbed then add i teaspoonful of 
butter, shake until it is evenly distributed 
over the potatoes and take at once from the 
fire. 

4. — Raspberry Foam. 

When a number of whites of eggs have ac- 
cumulated make raspberry foam for dessert. 
Whip 6 whites and 3 tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar to a very stiff froth adding grad- 
ually 3 tablespoonfuls of raspberry jelly. Pile 
in glasses on top of sugared raspberries. It 
should not stand very long. 
104 



July. 

5-— Green Corn Timbales. 

Score each ear and scrape out the pulp 
with a blunt knife; measure and add milk, 
if necessary, to make a pint — this is, if the 
com is not young and milky. Season with i 
scant teaspoonful of salt and ^ of a tea- 
spoonful of white pepper, then add 4 well- 
beaten eggs. Butter small timbale molds 
and fill with the mixture. Stand in a pan 
of hot water and place in a moderate oven 
until a knife blade comes out clean when in- 
serted in the centre. Let stand for a mo- 
ment, then turn out carefully and serve with 
a cream or a tomato sauce. 

6. — Cucumber Fritters. 

Peel and grate 3 or 4 large cucumbers, 
turn into a sieve, press out and discard all 
the juice. To i pint of the pulp add J^ of a 
cupful of rich milk, i cupful of flour, i ta- 
blespoonful of melted butter, i teaspoonful 
of salt, ^ of a teaspoonful of white pepper, 
and 3 well-beaten eggs. Drop by spoonfuls 
into smoking-hot fat and fry until crisp and 
brown. 

106 



July. 

7, — Shepherd's Pie. 
For shepherd's pie, chop finely some cold 
meat, season it well with salt and pepper and 
add enough gravy to moisten. Put into a 
greased baking dish and cover with an inch 
layer of potatoes mashed, seasoned and 
moistened with a few spoonfuls of hot milk. 
Smooth with a knife, brush with hot milk and 
brown in a quick oven. 

& — Beef Cannelon. 
For each pound of chopped lean beef, al- 
low I teaspoonful of salt, ^ of a teaspoonful 
of pepper, i teaspoonful of lemon juice, ^ 
of a teaspoonful of onion juice, 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of fine bread crumbs, i tablespoonful of 
finely-chopped parsley, i well-beaten egg, 
and I tablespoonful of melted butter or drip- 
ping. Mix well together, mold into a loaf, 
and place on a greased pan. Over the top 
lay 2 thin slices of fat salt pork and bake in 
a quick oven, from thirty to forty minutes. 
Serve with a brown or a tomato sauce. 

9. — Com Fritters. 
Score each ear down the rows with a 
sharp knife, then with the back of the blade 
106 



press out all the pulp ; in this way the indi- 
gestible hulls are rejected. Measure and to 

1 pint of this pulp add salt and pepper to 
give a very high seasoning, 3 well-beaten 
eggs, and sufficient sifted flour to make a 
thick drop batter, the amount depending on 
the milkiness of the com. Drop by small 
spoonfuls in a kettle of smoking hot fat and 
cook like doughnuts. Or fry in a little fat 
in a frying pan, turning when browned on 
one side. Serve very hot. 

io«— Veal Loaf. 

Put 2 pounds of lean veal through a chop- 
per, add 2 tablespoonfuls of finely-chopped 
parsley, J^ of a cupful of fine stale bread 
crumbs, i^ teaspoonfuls of salt, ^ of a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls of lemon 
juice or vinegar, i teaspoonful of onion juice, 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter and i well- 
beaten egg. Work thoroughly together, mold 
into a loaf, and lay on a greased pan. Bake 
in a hot oven for one hour basting a number 
of times with butter and water ; or the top of 
the loaf may be covered with thin slices of 
fat salt pork. 

107 



July. 

II. — spiced Chicken Liver or Giblets. 

Two cupfuls of cooked chicken liver or 
giblets, I cupful of stale bread crumbs, i cup- 
ful of stock, 2 eggs, I yi tablespoonfuls of lemon 
juice, I tablespoonful of butter, yi table- 
spoonful of onion juice, ^ tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, i teaspoonful of salt, ^ 
teaspoonful of pepper, }^ teaspoonful of 
ground cinnamon, ^ teaspoonful of grated 
nutmeg, ^ teaspoonful of ground cloves. 
Chop the livers or giblets very fine, melt the 
butter and beat the eggs until thick. Mix 
all the ingredients thoroughly, pack into 
greased molds, cover and steam one hour. 
Turn out while hot. Serve cold, cut into 
thin slices, and garnished with lemon. It 
will keep for a week in the refrigerator. 

12. — Smothered Cucumbers. 
Use rather old cucumbers. Pare and cut 
lengthwise into quarters. Scrape out the 
seeds and cut into inch lengths. Measure 
and for each pint allow i large tablespoonful 
of butter, scant ^ of a teaspoonful of salt and 
a good seasoning of paprika or white pepper. 
Put into a saucepan with a tightly-fitting 
cover and shake over a very hot fire for five 
108 



July. 

minutes, then draw to the side of the fire and 
cook slowly for fifteen minutes, by which 
time they should be tender. These are good 
as a garnish for roast lamb, but may also be 
served as a vegetable. 

13. — Chicken Croquettes. 

For chicken croquettes take i J^ cupfuls of 
chopped chicken, i teaspoonful of lemon 
juice, a dash of celery salt and paprika, i 
teaspoonful of finely-shredded parsley, a few 
drops of onion juice, and ^ a teaspoonful of 
salt. Blend the dry ingredients well and 
mix with the white sauce. This recipe ap- 
plies to white meat of the fowl, if dark meat 
entirely is used add about 2 tablespoonfuls 
more milk to the sauce, as dark meat is dry 
and absorbs more moisture. Cool, roll, 
crumb and fi-y. Serve on a platter sur- 
rounded by green peas. 

14.— Clams Browned and Creamed. 

Chop fine 2 strings of soft shell clams af- 
ter washing them. Melt i large tablespoon- 
ful of butter in a frpng-pan, add the clams 
and stir frequently until they are nicely 
browned. Keep well broken with a spoon. 
109 



July. 

When browned, drop over them i heaping 
tablespoonful of butter and stir again until 
it is absorbed and browned, then add gradu- 
ally I cupful of milk, stirring until it is 
smooth and thick. Season well with salt 
and pepper, simmer for five minutes and 
serve on toast or crisped crackers. 

15.— Cheese Fingers. 

Mix together i^ cupfuls of flour, i scant 
teaspoonful of baking powder, good dash of 
cayenne and ^ of a teaspoonful of salt, into 
this rub i large tablespoonful of butter. Add 
)^ of a cupful of grated cheese, and mix to a 
dough with cold water. Roll out one-third 
of an inch thick, and cut into fingers four 
inches long and one-half inch wide. Place 
them an inch apart on greased pans, brush 
with white of egg, and sprinkle with grated 
cheese. Bake in a quick oven and serve hot 
or cold. 

x6.— Chocolate Meringue Custard* 

A boiled custard flavored with vanilla and 

chocolate can be finished with a meringue 

which is dropped by spoonfuls into a pan of 

boiling water, covered and cooked for a 

110 



July. 

couple minutes until set, then transferred 
with a skimmer to the custard in the serving 
dish. This dessert should be thoroughly 
chilled before serving. 

17. — Cucumber Jelly Salad. 

Pare and grate 4 large cucumbers. Add 
i^ cupfuls of boiling water and simmer for 
fifteen minutes, with i teaspoonful of chopped 
onion, ^ of a teaspoonful of salt and i tea- 
spoonful of peppercorns. Have ready yi of 
a box of gelatine soaked in J^ of a cupful of 
cold water, add to the cucumbers and stir 
until dissolved ; then strain through cheese- 
cloth and set aside until it begins to thicken. 
Line a mold with thin slices of fresh cucum- 
ber, fill up with the jelly and put away until 
firm. Unmold on a bed of salad greens — 
lettuce, cress or nasturtiums ; if the latter 
are used garnish with the blossoms. 

18.— Beef Chartreuse. 
Beef chartreuse calls for a buttered mold 
lined an inch thick with boiled rice. The 
centre is filled with chopped cold meat well 
seasoned and moistened with 2 well-beaten 
eggs and (if necessary) a little gravy. The 
111 



July. 

top is covered with more rice and the mold 
steamed for an hour. 

xg.— Jaune Mange. 
Break up i ounce of sheet isinglass and 
soak in ^ pint of cold water until soft, then 
stand over a very slow fire until it is melted. 
Add the strained juice of 2 large oranges, 4 
tablespoonfuls of wine, the beaten yolks of 4 
eggs and ^ of a cupful of sugar. Stir all 
over the fire until the eggs thicken, then 
strain into a mold and set away to chill and 
stiffen. If sheet isinglass cannot be procured 
take the same weight of granulated gelatine. 

20.— Egg Plant au Gratin. 

Wipe a large tgg plant and boil in salted 
water until tender. Halve it, scoop out all 
the pulp and mash. Season well with salt 
and pepper and It pinch of thyme, then add 
I tablespoonful of finely-chopped onion, 2 
tablespoonfuls of dried bread crumbs and 2 
hard-boiled eggs chopped fine. Turn into a 
buttered dish, sprinkle with }^ of a cupful of 
dry crumbs which have been salted and 
^ixed with i teaspoonful of melted butter 
and brown in a quick oven. 
112 



July. 

21. — Blackberry Mush. 

Blackberry mush is a dish easily managed, 
wherever the wild berries can be had in 
abundance or the cultivated ones are not too 
expensive. Add ^ cupful of water to each 
quart of the washed berries, stew and pulp 
them. To each quart add i scant cupful of 
farina and cook in a double boiler for forty- 
five minutes, then mold and serve cold for 
breakfast with sugar and cream. 

22. — Apricot Blanc Mange. 
Take half of a can of apricots or five 
or six fresh ones stewed. To z cupful of 
the syrup add i cupful of boiling water and 
I tablespoonful of lemon juice and put over 
the fire. When boiling add 2 tablespoonfuls 
of corn-starch and a pinch of salt mixed to a 
smooth paste with cold water and stir until 
thickened. Cover and cook for thirty min- 
utes, then add the fruit mashed to a smooth 
pulp, beat thoroughly, turn into molds and 
serve very cold with cream and sugar. 

23.— Fried Egg Plant. 

Egg plant, when crisply fried, is a satisfac- 
tory substitute for meat at breakfast. Cut 
113 



July. 

the egg plant in rather thin slices, dip into 
flour or into egg and bread crumbs and fry 
quickly in a kettle of deep smoking hot fat« 
It should be served at once, as it soon loses 
its crispness. 

24.— Steamed Blackberry Pudding. 

Take i cupful of sweet milk, i tggy 2 cup- 
fuls of flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, yi 
cupful of sugar, i teaspoonful of salt and i 
teaspoonful of baking powder. Fill the cups 
about one-third full of berries, add the batter 
until the cups are two-thirds full. Steam 
one-half hour. Serve with cream and sugar. 
When fresh fruit is out of season, use jam, 
preserves or canned fruit drained from the 
liquor ; but with the cooked fruit omit the 
sugar from the batter. 

25. — Apricot Roll. 

Make a boiled custard with the yolks of 
4 eggs, ^ of a cupful of sugar, i cupful of 
milk and a pinch of salt. Strain and cool. 
Add ^ of a teaspoonful of vanilla, 3 drops 
of almond extract and i cupful of thick cream 
whipped to a solid froth. Freeze and when 
quite firm line the bottom and sides of a cyl- 
114 



July. 

inder mold. Drain i can of apricots, put 
the fruit through the food chopper, reducing 
it to a pulp. Measure and add a little of the 
syrup, if necessary, to make one pint. Boil 
together for a moment ^ a cupful of water 
and yi a cupful of sugar. When cold add 
to the fruit pulp, put into another freezer and 
begin to freeze. When like thick mush add 
the whites of a eggs whipped to a meringue 
with two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar 
and freeze for a few minutes longer. When 
just thick enough to handle well turn this 
into the mold lined with the frozen cream, 
cover, bind the edges with a strip of greased 
muslin and bury in ice and salt for several 
hours. 

26.— Cottage Fruit Pudding. 
Cream well together 2 heaping tablespoon- 
fuls of butter and i cupful of sugar. Add i 
well-beaten egg, ^ of a cupful of milk, ^ of 
a teaspoonful of salt and i^ cupfuls of flour. 
Beat well, add 2 scant teaspoonfrils of baking 
powder and turn into a shallow, well-buttered 
pan, the bottom of which has been covered 
with fresh fruit of any kind, properly pre- 
pared. Bake in a hot oven for about half an 
115 



hour, cut into squares and serve with hard 
sauce with which has been mixed enough 
mashed fruit to flavor it. 

37. — Steamed Berry Roll. 

Prepare a rich biscuit dough, using 2 
tabiespoonfuls of butter and i heaping tea- 
spoonful of baking powder to i pint of flour. 
Roll out in a long sheet about half an inch 
thick. Spread with a thick layer of berries 
sweetened to taste. Roll up tightly as pos- 
sible — ^like a jelly roll — ^and pinch the ends 
together. Lay on a buttered plate or shallow 
pan, and steam for forty minutes, then place 
in the oven to dry ofif and color slightly. 
Serve with a soft or hard sauce. All kinds 
of berries, stoned cherries, cut peaches and 
other fruits sweetened to taste may be used 
in the same way. 

28. — ^Tomato Timbales. 

Tomato timbales are made by stewing 
down some strained tomatoes until quite 
thick, seasoning with salt, pepper and onion 
juice and putting away until cold. To i 
cupful of this add 3 well-beaten eggs, mix 
thoroughly, then fill well-buttered timbale 
116 



July. 

molds. Stand them in a pan of hot water in 
the oven or put into a steamer and cook 
slowly until firm in the centre as a baked 
custard would be. This is a delightful lunch- 
eon dish. 

29.-^Potato Klosse. 
Boil sufficient peeled potatoes to weigh i 
pound, and when cold grate them. Cream 
thoroughly ^ of a pound of butter and work 
into it 3 well-beaten eggs. Blend this with the 
grated potatoes, add salt and pepper to taste, 
with, if liked, a very little nutmeg. Shape into 
marbles or small balls, drop into a saucepan 
of simmering, slightly salted water, and cook 
gently for ten minutes. Serve these as a 
garnish with meats. 

30. — Baked Tomatoes with Eggs. 
Select small firm tomatoes of even size, 
scald and peel them. Scoop out a spoonful 
from the centre of each and chop this fine. 
For 6 or 8 tomatoes chop fine i small onion 
and fry it brown in i large tablespoonful of 
butter, add pepper, i cupful of fine stale 
bread crumbs, the chopped tomato and i 
teaspoonful of chopped parsley and stir over 
117 



July. 

the fire for five minutes. Pack the tomatoes 
closely together in a shallow baking-dish, fill 
the centres with some of the cooked mixture 
and put the remainder between the tomatoes. 
Bake in a hot oven until brown, then break 
carefully over the top i egg for each person 
and return to the oven until the eggs are set. 

31. — Fried Cucumbers. 
For fr3ring cucumbers should be somewhat 
mature. Peel and cut them lengthwise in 
thick slices, dry on a towel, roll in flour and 
fry quickly in a little hot drippings or butter, 
seasoning as they are turned. A cream gravy 
can be served with them. 



118 



AUGUST, 



X. — Mock Tomatoes on Lettuce. 

Form tomato jelly into molds to resemble a 
tomato in shape and serve whole on lettuce 
leaves with i tablespoonful of mayonnaise on 
each. The jelly is made as follows : Boil i 
pint of strained tomato juice a few minutes 
with I slice of chopped onion and a little 
chopped parsley, salt and pepper, ^ tea- 
spoonful of celery salt and i teaspoonful of 
sugar. Soak i tablespoonful of gelatine in 
cold water a few minutes, add to the hot 
juice, strain and pour into wet cups. Canned 
green beans, asparagus tops and French peas 
may be used in the salad by chilling after re- 
heating. Remember always to drain liquor 
off of all canned vegetables and remove to an 
open dish, to stand awhile. Reheat and 
season before chilling and using as a salad. 

2. — Mulberry Shortcake. 
Where the large, luscious French mul- 
berries can be secured, a shortcake of a 
U9 



August. 

type rivaling that of the strawberry may be 
made. One-fourth of the berries gathered 
should be reddish and tart. Failing these 
(as when purchased ready picked) lemon 
juice will supply a suitable degree of acidity. 
Clip the stems of i quart of berries, then 
mash, stirring in ^ cupful of sugar and 
yi cupful of water. Set this aside and 
spread on the cake, just before serving. For 
the cake itself, sift with i quart of flour 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, i teaspoon- 
ful of salt and ^ cupful of sugar. Into the 
centre of this stir i large teaspoonful of 
shortening and just sufficient water or milk 
to make a soft drop dough (not to be touched 
with the hands). Bake at once in hot, 
greased baking tins in a rather quick oven. 
This will split readily and may be spread 
with butter just before serving. 

3. — Clams a la Norfolk. 
Chop fine i pint of clams. Mix to a paste 
2 tablespoonfuls each of butter and flour and 
rub into it the hard boiled yolks of 4 eggs. 
Cook the clams slowly in i tablespoonful of 
butter, but do not let them color. In five 
minutes add paste; when it begins to melt 
190 



Augusts 

add gradually i pint of milk and stir until 
smoothly thickened. Season with i scant 
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of cayenne and a 
pinch of mustard; add i teaspoonful of 
lemon juice and serve at once. Thin sand- 
wiches of graham bread and butter go nicely 
with this dish. 

4. — Fruit Dumplings. 

A milk biscuit dough, with double the 
usual allowance of butter, will make good 
fruit dumplings. Roll the dough out quite 
thin, cut out the size of a coffee saucer, put 
a large spoonful of berries or drained stewed 
fruit in the centre, draw the dough up round 
it and pinch the edges tightly together. Put 
close together in a greased, shallow dish and 
steam for from thirty to forty minutes, then 
stand in the oven long enough to dry off. 
The sauce may be crushed fruit sweetened 
with powdered sugar, or a hard sauce into 
which some of the crushed fruit is beaten. 

5* — Com in Tomato Cups. 

Com which is too old for serving on the 

cob is cut raw, seasoned, i tablespoonful of 

butter added to each pint and packed in 

121 



August. 

tomatoes from which the centres have been 
scooped out. These are baked in a quick 
oven for half an hour. 

6. — Nesselrode Pudding. 

Scald lyi pints of milk in a double boiler. 
Beat together the yolks of 5 eggs and ij^ 
cupfuls of granulated sugar, turn into the 
scalded milk and stir until thick as soft 
custard, then strain and set aside to cool. 
Open a small bottle of French chestnuts put 
up in vanilla syrup, pour oflf the syrup and 
add to the custard with i pint of cream and 
J4 of a cupful of pineapple syrup, then freeze. 
When frozen open the can and mix in ^ of 
a cupful of candied fruit and ^ of a cupful 
of sultana raisins which have been soaked in 
a little Maraschino for two hours, also the 
chestnuts cut in small pieces. Pack into a 
covered mold, bind with a strip of muslin 
dipped in melted butter and bury the mold 
in ice and salt for three hours before serving. 

7, — Mock Terrapin. 
Cut into small dice sufficient cold boiled 
fresh beef tongue to measure i heaping cup- 
ful. Put into a saucepan with ^ of a cupful 
122 



August. 

of strong chicken stock and ^ of a cupful 
of sheny, cover and simmer for ten minutes. 
Draw to one side of the fire, drop in i table- 
spoonful of flour rubbed to a paste with 
I tablespoonful of butter and stir until melted 
and thickened. Add ^ of a cupful of rich 
cream, salt and pepper to taste, i teaspoonful 
of lemon juice and the yolks of 2 hard-boiled 
eggs cut into quarters. Let simmer for two 
minutes, stir in the yolks of 2 raw eggs mixed 
with I tablespoonful of cream, take from the 
fire and add i more tablespoonful of sherry. 

8.— Boiled Chicken Custard. 
In a double boiler put ^ of a cupful each 
of strained chicken stock (which should be 
of sufficient strength to jelly when cold) and 
^ of a cupful of cream. Scald and pour 
over 2 well-beaten eggs. Add a pinch of 
salt, return to the double boiler and stir 
constantly until slightly thickened; strain 
and chill. 

9.^Frozen Tomato Salad. 
Select a dozen large ripe tomatoes, cut 
into pieces, press them through a sieve 
123 



Augusts 

and season highly with salt, pepper, a little 
tarragon vinegar and a few drops of onion 
juice. Put this mixture in the freezer and 
freeze as for a water ice. Take out the 
dasher, work down well in the can, repack 
the freezer and put in the cellar for a couple 
of hours. Grate or chop fine some English 
walnuts. Serve the frozen tomato on a bed 
of lettuce leaves and sprinkle thickly with the 
walnuts. Serve mayonnaise in a bowl. 



10. — Compote of Cantaloupe. 

Choose 2 small spicy melons, open them, 
remove the seeds, cut in inch ribs and with a 
silver knife carefully remove the firm pulp. 
Make a syrup with i pound of sugar, i cup- 
ful of water and }i teaspoonful of arrowroot. 
Simmer until clear, lay in the melon strips, a 
few at a time, and simmer for five minutes. 
Transfer them to a compote dish arranging 
the strips so that they overlap one another, 
forming a crown. Boil down the syrup until 
very thick, take from the fire, add }i cupful 
of white wine, pour over the melon in the 
dish and serve ice cold. 
124 



August 

zi^— Beef Goulasch. 

Goulasch is a beef stew highly seasoned 
with Hungarian paprika. 2 pounds of lean 
beef from the round, crossrib or any inferior 
portion is cut into finger lengths; i large 
onion is chopped fine and browned in i ta- 
blespoonful of melted drippings or olive oil, i 
heaping tablespoonful of flour added and 
well browned. Into this is stirred i tea- 
spoonful of salt, I scant teaspoonful of paprika 
and I pint of water or beef stock. When the 
gravy is thick and smooth the meat is added, 
dosely covered and simmered for two hours. 
Paprika is a red pepper much more brightly 
colored than cayenne, about as pungent as 
white pepper, but with a more decided flavor. 
It can be purchased in quarter-pound cans. 

12. — Peach Pudding. 
Pare sufficient whole peaches to cover the 
bottom of a buttered deep dish. Prepare a 
batter with i well-beaten egg, i cupful of 
milk, a pinch of salt, 2 scant cupfuls of flour, 
I teaspoonful of baking powder and 2 table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter. Pour this over 
the peaches and bake in a moderate oven for 
126 



August 

about forty minutes. Serve with sweetened 
cream or a liquid sauce. 

13, — Berry Roly-poly. 

Prepare a dough with i pint of flour, J^ 
of a teaspoonful of salt, i teaspoonful of 
sugar, I teaspoonful of baking powder, 2 ta- 
blespoonfuls of butter and sufficient sweet 
milk to mix to a soft dough. Roll out in a 
long sheet not quite an inch thick. Cover 
with the washed berries and sprinkle with 
sugar, according to their acidity. If very 
juicy dust over also a large teaspoonful of 
flour, then roll up like a jelly roll, pinching 
the ends well together. Lay on a greased 
plate, steam for thirty-five or forty minutes, 
then place in a hot oven just long enough to 
color slightly. Serve with it either a hard or 
a liquid sauce. 

14. — Eggs in Tomato Cases. 

Eggs in tomato cases are a good and tasty 
lunch dish. Scoop out the centres of as many 
large firm tomatoes as there are persons to be 
served. Drain, then sprinkle the inside of 
each with chopped tarragon (or tarragon vin- 
egar), salt and pepper, dropping in carefully 
126 



August 

a TSLW egg and ^ of a teaspoonful of butter. 
Place in a baking-pan in a hot oven until the 
eggs are set and serve very hot. 

15. — Peach Mousse. 

Rub through a sieve enough mellow peaches 
to measure 1}^ cupfuls. Soak ^ of a box 
of gelatine in ^ of a cupful of cold water, 
stand over hot water until dissolved, then add 
to the peaches with i cupful of sugar and 
I teaspoonful of lemon juice. Stir occasion- 
ally until quite thick, add i pint of cream 
which has been whipped to a solid froth and 
turn lightly through until set. Pack in a 
mold, cover and bind the seam with a strip 
of buttered muslin and pack in ice and salt 
for three hours. 

i6, — Toad-in-the-Hole. 

Toad-in-the-Hole is the unmelodious name 
for an English meat pudding. Lean beef is 
used and it should be gently simmered in a 
little water until tender, then cut into inch 
squares, well-seasoned and placed in a pud- 
ding-dish. Over this is potu-ed a thick bat- 
ter made of i cupful of flour, >^ of a tea- 
spoonful of salt, I teaspoonful of baking pow- 
127 



August. 

der, I beaten egg, ^ of a cupful of milk and 
I tablespoonful of melted butter. A mod- 
erate oven will bake it in from forty-five min- 
utes to an hour according to the size of the 
dish and with it is served the gravy thickened 
and well seasoned. 

17. — Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Firm tomatoes may be stuffed with boiled 
rice, hominy, chopped macaroni, dry bread 
crumbs or chopped meat, either singly or in 
combination. Always season highly and 
moisten with a little melted butter before 
baking. 

x8. — Peach Blanc Mange. 

Steep I dozen peach pits in i pint of milk 
for half an hour. Take out the pits, add 4 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and bring to the scald- 
ing point. Mix 3 heaping tablespoonfuls of 
corn-starch with a litde cold milk, add a 
pinch of salt, pour into the hot milk and stir 
till thick. Cover and cook for ten minutes, 
add I dozen ripe peaches pared and cut in 
bits. Turn into wetted molds and set away 
till cold. Serve with cream. 
128 



Augusts 

19. — Froes' Legs en Casserole. 

If the legs are very large divide them at the 
jcnnty then scald with boiling water to which 
a little lemon juice has been added. Prepare 
a white sauce by stirring together 2 tabie- 
spoonluls of butter and 2 taUespoonfuls of 
flour; when melted and mixed add slowly i 
pint of milk and stir until thick and smooth. 
Season this with i scant teaspoonful of salt 
and ^ of a teaspoonful of paprika. Peel as 
many button onions as you have casseroles, 
and with a potato scoop turn out four times 
as many raw potato balls. Quickly brown 
the onions in a little butter, sprinkling over 
them a (Hnch of powdered sugar. In each 
casserole put x or 2 legs according to size, i 
onion, 4 potato balls and a tiny strip of lemon 
peel. Over all pour the sauce, fasten on the 
covers and place in a moderate oven for an 
hour. 

20.— Cream of Chicken Liver and 

Lima Beans. 

Three-quarters pound cooked chicken liva-, 

lyi cupfuls cooked lima beans, i}i cupfuls 

cream sauce. For this recipe it is best to 

leave the livers whole, merely separating the 

139 



August 

lobes. Naturally quite young, fresh beans 
are the most satisfactory, but canned limas 
may be used. Make the sauce by putting 
lyi tablespoonfuls of butter and i}^ table- 
spoonfuls of flour into a saucepan. Stir over 
the fire until well blended. Pour in i^ 
cupfuls of milk, and stir until it boils. Add 
14 of a teaspoonful of salt and 3 dashes of 
white pepper. Divide the sauce into two 
parts. Add the cooked livers to one-half and 
the cooked beans to the remaining half. 
Stir them separately over the fire until steam- 
ing hot. Pour the beans on a platter, spread 
them out to form a border, and turn the 
livers into the centre. Serve hot. If a 
garnish is desired, scatter finely chopped 
parsley over the top of the beans and inch- 
long strips of sweet red pepper, cut very thin, 
over the liver. 

21. — Peach Flummery. 

Pare and quarter sufficient juicy peaches 
to make i pint. Stew gently in i pint of 
water till tender, add i cupful of sugar and 
stir until dissolved. Add 3 tablespoonfuls 
of corn-starch mixed with a little cold water, 



August 



stir till thick and clear. Turn into moldsi 
and serve cold with cream. 

22. — Calf's Lriver Ragout. 
Two cupfuls of cooked calf's liver, i 
dozen of large olives, i cupful of brown 
sauce. Cut the liver into half-inch blocks. 
Stone the olives and chop moderately fine. 
To make the brown sauce put i tablespoonful 
of butter into a saucepan. Stir it over the 
fire until slightly browned, add i}i table- 
spoonfuls of flour and continue stirring until 
well browned. Then turn in i cupful of the 
stock in which the liver was cooked and 
stir until it boils. Season with salt and pep- 
per, adding i tablespoonful of Worcester- 
shire sauce if liked. Put in the liver and 
olives. When steaming hot turn out on 
small slices of toast, or serve on a platter 
garnished with squares of fried hominy. 

23. — Peach Shortcake. 

Mix together i quart of flour, i teaspoon- 
ful of salt, I tablespoonful of sugar, 2 large 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder and rub in 
^ of a cupful of butter. Mix to a soft 
doughy turQ out and roll not quite an inch 

m 



August* 

thick. Cut to fit three pans, brush each with 
milk and bake in a moderate oren. Split 
while hot, butter plentifully and spread each 
piece with peaches cut small. Sprinkle with 
sugar, and put together in two cakes of three 
layers each, the crust side of each layer be- 
ing underneath. Serve with cold boiled 
custard or a pitcher of cream. 

24. — Barbecued Beef. 
From cold roast beef cut thin slices. Heat 
together in the chafing dish >^ of a cupful of 
gravy, 2 tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup, i 
teaspoonful of Worcestershire or i table- 
spoonful of walnut catsup and a tablespoon- 
fuls of sherry. In this lay the sliced meat 
and serve as soon as heated through. 

25. — Stuffed Cucumbers. 
Use large cucumbers. Pare them and cut 
into two-inch lengths. With a silver knife 
or a small spoon scoop out the seeds. Have 
ready a highly-seasoned mince made of any 
cold meat, also somewhat more than a cupful 
of good, brown sauce (which may be made 
with the meat gravy). Fill the centre of 
each piece with the mince, stand on end in a 
133 



August. 

saucepan and pour round them the hot sauce; 
Cover and simmer very gently until tender, 
then dish on buttered toast and pour the 
gravy over and around them. 

a6,— Peach Cobbler. 

Originally a Maryland delicacy, the peach 
cobbler has become a favorite wherever fresh 
peaches are obtainable. Pare enough large 
sweet ones to almost fill a deep pudding dish ; 
do not halve or pit them but sprinkle with 
plenty of sugar, then cover with a rich pie 
crust rolled rather thicker than usual. Bake 
in a moderate oven for from forty minutes to 
an hour. 

27. — Baked Corn in Pepper Cases. 

Cut from the cob sufficient boiled com to 
measure i pint. Scald 6 or 8 bull-nose pep- 
pers for five minutes, rub off the skin, cut off 
the stem end and scrape out all the seeds. 
Make a good cream sauce with i tablespoon- 
ful of butter, i tablespoonful of flour, i cup- 
ful of thin cream and ^ of a teaspoonful of 
salt. Fill the pepper shells with the mixed 
com and sauce, place close together in abak- 



August 

ing-dish and bake in a hot oven for half an 
hour. 

a8. — Cucumber a la Poulette. 

Cucumbers make a savory lunch dish when 
served in a poulette sauce. To }i pint of 
plain white sauce add 4 cucumbers after par- 
ing, cutting them in inch pieces and simmer- 
ing them in salted water for twenty minutes. 
Cook gently ten minutes in the sauce then 
add I teaspoonful of lemon juice, i teaspoon- 
ful of chopped parsley and the beaten yolks 
of 2 eggs. Stir for a moment then take from 
the fire. 

29. — Potato Quenelles. 
Boil and mash while hot sufficient potatoes 
to make 3 cupfuls. Mix with them 2 
tablespoonfuls of butter, salt and pepper to 
taste, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream, i teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
chopped boiled ham, and the beaten yolks of 
4 eggs. Lastly, add the whites, beaten to 
a stiff froth. Shape into oval quenelles 
with two teaspoons, and drop into smoking 
hot fat. As browned, drain on paper and 
serve hot. 

134 



August. 

30. — Peach Tapioca. 
Wash I cupful of fine tapioca, cover with 
cold water and let soak for one hour, drain- 
ing off any water which is not absorbed. 
Turn into a double boiler, add i pint of boil- 
ing water and cook until clear. Add ^ of a 
cupful of sugar and i pint of finely cut 
peaches, cook until the fruit is tender, then 
turn into a deep glass dish. Serve very cold 
with cream. 



31. — Farcied Tomatoes. 

From 8 large round tomatoes cut the stem 
ends; scoop out the insides, place this in a 
saucepan, stew down until thick, then press 
through a sieve. In a frying-pan cook slowly 
together i chopped onion and i tablespoonful 
of butter. When lightly colored add i^ 
cupfuls of soft bread crumbs which have 
been soaked in water for ten minutes then 
pressed quite dry, ^ of a cupful of finely- 
chopped mushrooms, i tablespoonful of finely- 
chopped parsley, i teaspoonful of finely- 
chopped green pepper, a high seasoning of 
salt, pepper and thyme and J^ of a cupful 
of the stewed tomato. Stir for a moment 
136 



more, fill the tomatoes with the mixture^ 
cover the top of each with battered cnimbs 
and place in a very hot oven until browned. 
Sorve with tomato sauce. 



136 



SEPTEMBER. 



I. — Okra and Com Fricassee. 

In a skillet melt and heat ^ of a cupful of 
lard or bacon fat. When smoking turn in i 
pint of sliced okra and stir occasionally until 
it begins to color. Add 3 cupfuls of sliced 
raw com, and when it is lightly browned 
pour ofif nearly all the fat. Dredge in i 
tablespoonful of flour, stir until it is absorbed, 
then add ^ of a cupful of milk and stir oc- 
casionally for fifteen minutes, seasoning to 
taste. 

a.— Corn Chowder. 

Chop fine ^ of a pound of fat sah pork, 
put into a deep kettle with 2 large white 
onions chopped fine and cook for ten min- 
utes without browning. Add i pint of raw 
potatoes cut into half-inch dice and sufficient 
boiling water to cover. Cook for ten min- 
utes, add I pint of com cut or scraped from 
the ear, salt and pepper to taste and simmer 
137 



Scptcinbct* 

for fifteen minutes longer. Have ready i 
pint of milk made into a thin sauce, with i 
tablespoonful of butter and i^ tablespoonfuls 
of flour. Add to the chowder with more sea- 
soning if necessary and boil up twice. 

3. — Rice with Peaches. 
Boil I pint of rice ; when done, stir into it 
2}i cupfuls of sugar and j^ teaspoonful of 
salt, and beat well with a wooden spatula. 
Wet an oval mold with cold water, press the 
rice into it, and set away in a cold place until 
needed. Make a syrup of 2 cupfuls of sugar, 
the juice of 2 lemons, and i pint of water ; 
boil until clear. Peel and halve i dozen fine 
peaches. At serving time turn the rice out 
on a flat dish, arrange the fruit around it, and 
pour the syrup over all. Serve very cold, 
with lady-finger cakes. 

4. — Cauliflower with Cheese. 

Trim off the outer leaves and soak, head 
downward, in salted water. Place in a sauce- 
pan, head up, cover with boiling salted water 
and boil gently but steadily until tender when 
tested with a fork, then drain. Break off the 
138 



September. 

branches and put in layers in a baking-dish 
with salt, pepper and grated Swiss or Ameri- 
can cheese. Pour over all about i pint of 
white sauce, cover with a thick layer of but- 
tered bread crumbs and place in a hot oven 
until browned. Serve as a course with saltine 
wafers. 

5.— Fried Scallops. 

Wash and drain the scallops. Drop them 
into a saucepan of boiling salted water and 
boil for five minutes, then drain and set in 
the icebox until cold and firm. Have ready 
a small saucer of flour slightly salted. Break 
an tgg in a saucer ; add i tablespoonful of 
warm water and beat with a fork just enough 
to break the stringiness. On a plate have a 
quantity of fine dried bread crumbs; also 
have ready a deep kettle partly filled with 
smoking hot fat. Roll each large scallop in 
the flour, dip into the beaten egg, turning, 
that it may receive a thorough coating ; then 
lift it with fork or spoon, allowing any excess 
of egg to drain off, and roll it in the crumbs. 
When all are done, fry about a dozen at a 
time in the fat and drain for a moment on 
soft paper. Arrange on a hot platter, gar- 
139 



nishing with watercress or the feathery green 
fixmds of the carrot. 

6.— Carrot Pudding. 
Chop fine sufficient suet to measure i cup- 
ful ; add i cupful of scraped and grated car- 
rot and the same quantity of grated raw 
potatoes; stir in )^ of a cupful of milk, 2 
cupfuls of flour, I cupful each of raisins and 
currants, i}i teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
^ of a teaspoonful of cinnamon and ^ of a 
teaspoonful of cloves. Steam for three hours 
in a buttered mold and serve with a soft 
sauce. 

7. — Baked Creamed Cabbage. 
Remove the outer leaves from a head of 
cabbage, cut out the stalk and chop coarsely. 
Soak in salted water for ten minutes, then put 
into a kettle, cover with boiling water, add i 
tablespoonful of salt and keep at a galloping 
boil, uncovered, for twenty minutes, then 
drain. Into a saucepan put i^ tablespoon- 
fuls of butter and i^ tablespoonfuls of flour. 
Stir over the fire until mixed, then add grad- 
ually 1}^ cupfuls of hot milk. When smooth 
and thick add i scant teaspoonful of salt and 
140 



Septetnbet* 

^ of a teaspoonful of white pepper and mix 
thoroughly with the cabbage. Turn into a 
buttered baking-dish, sprinkle thickly with 
buttered bread crumbs and bake in a moder- 
ate oven until brown. 

8.— Steak with 03rsters. 

At least I dozen oysters, rolled in fine 
crumbs, will be needed. Cook the steak 
slightly underdone ; spread quickly over it a 
spoonful of butter mixed with a drop of 
tabasco and a little lemon juice. Place on a 
hot pan, cover with the prepared 0)rsters and 
run into a very hot oven or under the gas 
broiler until the 0)rsters are lightly colored. 
Serve around it a few slices of crisp bacon. 

9. — Shrimp Chowder. 
Put 2 tablespoonfuls of finely chopped salt 
pork in a dish. When well fried out add 
I teaspoonful of chopped onion and cook 
until it begins to color. Add i tablespoon- 
ful of flour and, when mixed, i J^ cupfuls of 
milk. As soon as thickened add }i can of 
prepared shrimps and i cupful of diced cold 
boiled potatoes. Season well, cover and sim- 
mer for five minutes and serve with crackers. 
141 



September* 

za— Fillets of Chicken. 
Strip the skin from the breast of an un- 
cooked fowl, and with a sharp knife loosen 
and remove the white breast meat, taking 
care to have each half in as good shape as 
possible. This will give two complete fillets, 
or, if divided, two major and two minor 
fillets from one fowl. Dip each into slightly- 
beaten egg, then into fine bread crumbs. 
Have ready a kettle of deep fat, smoking 
hot. Gently drop in two or more of the 
fillets — according to the size of the kettle — 
and draw to one side of the fire, that they 
may cook through without burning. Drain 
on unglazed paper and serve with bechamel 
or tartare sauce. If broiling is desired, dip 
each fillet into melted butter, and arrange on 
a broiler and broil about six minutes, turn- 
ing frequently. Garnish with cress and toast 
points. 

zi. — Com Oysters. 

Half of a can of com is put through a 
chopper and is mixed with a beaten eggs, 
2 tablespoonfuls of milk, i tablespoonful of 
melted butter, a high seasoning of salt and 
pepper, i teaspoonful of baking powder and 
142 



September^ 

sufficient flour to make a thick batter. This 
is dropped by small spoonfuls in a pan con- 
taining a little hot fat and fried brown ; from 
the flavor the little fritters are frequently 
called com oysters. 

12.— Date Roly-Poly. 
Date roly-poly is a nice dessert. Make a 
rich biscuit dough, roll it out and spread 
with dates which have been stoned, chopped 
and stewed in a very little water until soft. 
Sprinkle with sugar, roll up, steam for three- 
quarters of an hour, then place in the oven 
long enough to dry off the top. Serve with 
a soft or a hard sauce. 

13. — Fried Soft Clams. 

They should be rinsed in cold water and 
thoroughly dried on a towel, dipped into 
beaten eggs and rolled in fine, dry bread 
crumbs. The fat should be smoking hot and 
deep enough in the kettle to allow of com- 
plete immersion. They will be thoroughly 
cooked in three minutes. 

14. — Banana Toast. 
For banana toast make a hot sauce with 
X pint of boiling water, i tablespoonful of 
143 



Scptcftibct* 

corn-starch, i tablespoonful of butter, }i of 
a cupful of sugar and ^ of a teaspoonful 
of salt. Boil until clear, add 4 bananas 
rubbed through a sieve, stir and boil a 
moment longer, then pour over thin crisp 
toast. 

15.— Peach Sago. 

Wash ^ of a cupful of sago and let soak 
for several hours or over night. Drain, 
cover with i pint of boiling water and sim- 
mer gently until the sago is clear. Sweeten 
with j^ of a cupful of sugar, add a pinch 
of salt and pour over cut peaches arranged 
in a serving dish. Set aside and serve very 
cold with cream. Any fruit in season may 
be used, adding sugar according to the tart- 
ness of the fruit. 

16. — Giblets a la Supreme. 

(/« the Chafing Dish.) 

Cut into inch pieces sufficient previously 

cooked giblets to measure i cupful. Melt 

I tablespoonful of butter in the dish, add 

the giblets, cover and stir occasionally until 

they begin to color. Add i tablespoonful of 

flour, stir until colored, then add i cupful 

144 



StptciYibcf^ 

of the liquor and stir until thickened. Season 
with salt and pepper, boil hard for two 
minutes, add i dozen olives cut into strips 
and I tablespoonful of sherry and cook for a 
moment longer. 

17. — Deviled Crabs. 
In a saucepan put i tablespoonful of flour, 
I tablespoonful of butter, ^ of a teaspoonful 
of salt and a dash of cayenne. Stir over the 
fire until melted and mixed, then gradually 
add ^ of a cupful of veal or chicken stock. 
Stir until thick and smooth, then add the 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
sherry, 3 fresh mushrooms chopped, and 
I cupful of prepared crab meat. Stir for 
three minutes, then take from the fire, add 
I heaping teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
more salt and pepper to season very highly 
and, if liked, a suspicion of made mustard. 
When cold fill the shells with the mixture, 
smoothing them off, rounding full. Sprinkle 
with fine, dry bread crumbs, slightly moist- 
ened with a little melted butter, and bake in 
a very hot oven until browned ; or dip into 
slightly-beaten egg, roll in fine crumbs and 
fry golden brown in deep, smoking hot fat 
146 



Stptcnibcf» 

la.— Peach Delight. 
Pare and halve ripe, mellow peaches. 
Crack a few of the pits, remove and blanch 
the kernels. In a deep dish put two layers 
of the fruit, sprinkling each with sugar and 
a little flour. Put i tablespoonful of butter 
in bits over the top and add the kernels and 
I cupful of water. Prepare a rich biscuit 
crust, roll it out, trim it to shape and lay in 
the dish over the peaches. Bake and serve 
hot with sweet cream. 

ig. — Cracker and Cheese Pudding. 

Grate or cut fine )^ of a pound of good 
American cheese. Break )^ of a pound of 
soda crackers into pieces. Nearly fill a broad, 
shallow baking-dish with alternate layers of 
the crackers and cheese, slightly salting the 
crackers. Over the top put i scant teaspoon- 
ful of butter cut into bits. Just before putting 
into the oven, pour over sufficient cold milk 
to come up to the top of the crackers. Cover 
and place in a hot oven for fifteen minutes, 
then uncover and bake until well browned. 

20.— Dutched Red Cabbage. 
Remove the outer leaves from a fine head 
of red cabbage and chop or shred, cover with 
146 



cold water and let stand for an hour. Drain 
and for each quart allow i tablespoonful of 
butter, I heaping tablespoonful of finely- 
chopped onion, ^ of a teaspoonful of salt, a 
pinch of mace and 2 tablespoonfuls of vine- 
gar. Cover and cook slowly until tender, 
adding i teaspoonful of sugar when half 
done. 

2z. — Tomato Fricassee. 
Cook together ^ can of tomatoes, i table- 
spoonful of butter and a high seasoning of 
pepper and salt. When the tomatoes are very 
soft add a pinch of baking soda. When the 
foam passes off add 3 beaten eggs, stir and 
take from the fire as soon as they begin to 
thicken. 

22.— Sweet Potato Boulettes. 
Sweet potatoes need only the addition of 
salt and pepper and i tablespoonful of butter 
to each pint, mixing while hot. They can 
be molded at once into small balls or boulettes 
and when fried in deep fat should be drained 
for a moment on unglazed paper then piled, 
cannon-ball fiaishion, on a napkin and gar- 
nished with sprigs of parsley. 
147 



Scptcfttb€t0 

23. — Peach Roll. 

A milk biscuit dough — using 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of shortening to the pint of flour — is 
made for peach roll. The peaches (canned 
or stewed) are chopped, spread on the dough, 
dusted with flour and sugar, rolled up and 
steamed. The peach syrup, slightly thick- 
ened with arrowroot or corn-starch, makes a 
good hot sauce. 

24. — Curried Apples. 

A novelty to serve with cold meats is cur- 
ried apples. Select i dozen large, tart ap- 
ples, wipe and core them and place in a bak- 
ing dish. Cream together ^ of a cupful of 
butter and i cupful of brown sugar, beat in i 
tablespoonful of vinegar and i teaspoonful of 
curry powder. Fill the holes with this mix- 
ture and bake in a quick oven. Serve when 
thoroughly chilled. 

25. — Chops with Onion Purie. 

With lamb or mutton chops an onion pur6e 

is exceedingly good. Have at least i pint 

of white onions, peel and boil them until very 

soft, changing the water twice. Rub them 

148 



Scptcttibcf» 

through a sieve, seasoning them well with 
salt, pepper and butter ; if too dry, they may 
be moistened with a little white sauce. Car- 
rot and turnip purde can be prepared in the 
same way, and if desired for a first course, 
instead of serving with meat, the vegetables 
can be mixed with twice as much white sauce, 
giving a smooth, creamy soup. 

26. — Baked Beets. 
Wash thoroughly some good-sized beets, 
being careful not to break the skin, and do 
not trim the tops off very close. Bake until 
when pinched they are soft all the way 
through. About one and a half to two hoturs 
is required for medium sized beets. Do not 
pierce with a fork, as the juice will boil out. 
When baked, peel (the skin is loose from the 
meat and readily comes off), slice and season 
with salt and pepper and butter. Beets pre- 
pared this way retain the sweetness which is 
lost, to a great extent, in boiling. 

27. — Lyonnaise Carrots. 

New carrots after boiling are cut into thick 
slices and slowly fried in a little butter to 
which is added i teaspoonful of chopped 
148 



S€ptCtflb€f0 

onion to i pint of carrots. In serving they 
are sprinkled with chopped parsley or celery 
tops. 

28.— Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton. 
When buying a shoulder of mutton have 
the butcher bone it. Fill the cavity with a 
stuffing made of equal quantities of stale 
bread crumbs and chopped raw mutton, sea- 
son highly with salt, pepper and onion juice 
and moisten with a little melted butter or 
beef fat (mutton is too tallowy). Roast, as 
usual, but baste with a mixture of 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter and i cupful of water 
which has been boiled for five minutes with 
6 cloves, a slice of onion and a pinch of celery 
seed. 

29.— Sv^eet Potato Croquettes. 
Boil until tender, then skin and mash or 
put through a potato press. For each pint 
add I tablespoonful of butter, i teaspoonful 
of onion juice, salt and pepper to taste, and 
I tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Mix 
thoroughly together, form into croquettes and 
dip into beaten egg, then roll in fine bread 
crumbs. Fry in deep smoking hot fat, drain 
150 



Stptctnbcf* 

for a moment on soft paper and pile on a 
serving dish, garnishing with parsley. 

3a — Cauliflower Fritters. 

Boil a white head of cauliflower in salted 
water until tender. Set aside until cold, 
break into small branches. Have ready i 
cupful of bechamel sauce made with chicken 
stock and cream. While still hot add i tea- 
spoonful of granulated gelatine soaked in 3 
tablespoonfuls of cold water. Stir until dis- 
solved then set aside until beginning to stiffen. 
Have ready i or more platters lightly brushed 
with melted butter. Dip each branch of 
cauliflower in the sauce until well coated, lay 
on the platter ; when all are so dipped set 
the platter aside until the sauce is thoroughly 
set. Prepare a fritter batter by mixing to- 
gether the yolks of 2 eggs and ^ of a cupful 
of cold water, stir this into i cupful of flour 
mixed with ^ of a teaspoonful of salt and 
^ of a teaspoonful of pepper. Add i table- 
spoonful of melted butter and beat hard, then 
cut in lightly the stiffly-whipped tgg whiles. 
This batter is improved if made a few hours 
before it is to be used. Dip each piece of 
151 



September. 

cauliflower carefully in the batter so as not to 
remove the sauce coating. Drop, a few at a 
time, into a deep kettle half-filled with smok- 
ing-hot fat and fry golden brown. Serve at 
once, as an entrde or vegetable. 



159 



OCTOBER, 



1. — Caudle Cup. 

Add to 3 quarts of boiling water, i scant 
cupful of oatmeal, the grated rind and juice 
of 2 lemons, a large handful of raisins, ^ a 
teaspoonful of salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar, I cupful of sweet cider, J^ a 
grated nutmeg and yi a teaspoonful each of 
powdered cinnamon and allspice. Bring 
these ingredients slowly to the boiling point, 
and simmer gently for two hours; then 
strain through a purde sieve, adding a little 
more hot cider if too thick. When ready to 
serve, reheat and stir in the stiffly beaten 
whites of 3 eggs, allowing it to remain over 
the fire only a moment or two after the eggs 
are added. Pour immediately into a punch 
bowl and serve in caudle cups, adding a ta- 
blespoonful of sweetened whipped cream, 
flavored with nutmeg, to each portion. 
153 



October^ 

a. — Pine Nut Apple Charlotte. 

Place a layer of thinly sliced apples in the 
bottom of a buttered baking dish, then a 
layer of buttered bread crumbs, followed by 
one of pine nuts; sprinkle with sugar and 
cinnamon. Add a squeeze of orange juice. 
Repeat until dish is full, the top layer of 
crumbs. Bake imtil brown and serve with 
thick cream. 

3. — Irish Fritters. 

For Irish fritters chop fine 4 large onions, 
pour boiling water over them, let stand for 
ten minutes then drain. Cut the crust from 
a loaf of stale bread, soak for a few minutes 
in cold water, squeeze dry and crumble quite 
fine with the remainder of the loaf. Season 
highly with salt, pepper, powdered thyme or 
sage and marjoram, add the onions and 4 
tablespoonfuls of melted suet or dripping, mix 
and make up in thin flat cakes, flouring well. 
Fry in a pan in hot dripping. 

4.— Macaroni Timbale with Chicken 

Filling. 

The remnants of a chicken are freed from 

skin and fat, run through the chopper, 

164 



October^ 

highly seasoned and moistened with stock or 
a tomato or cream sauce, and i beaten egg to 
each cupful of chicken. A plain mold is 
well buttered and lined with macaroni which 
has been boiled and kept in a bowl of cold 
water until needed then dried on a towel; 
the centre is filled with the prepared chicken, 
the top covered with macaroni and the whole 
steamed for an hour. A white or a tomato 
sauce should be served with it. 



5,— Rice with Apples 

' Cook together in a double boiler x pint of 
milk, J^ of a cupful of well washed rice, ^ 
of a teaspoonful of salt and i tablespoonful 
of sugar. When half done add i tablespoon- 
ful of butter. Peel, core and slice sufficient 
apples to measure i pint. When all the milk 
is absorbed take the rice from the fire and 
arrange with the apples in layers in a but- 
tered dish, having the first and last layers 
rice. Cover closely and place in a hot oven 
for fifteen minutes. Uncover, pour over the 
top I tablespoonful of melted butter, brown 
and serve with a clear sauce. 
155 



October^ 

6. — Angels on Horseback. 

This is another name for a dish called 
'* pigs in blankets/' and while both are fanci- 
ful, the latter would seem to be the more ap- 
propriate one of the two. Select large, 
plump oysters, and for each oyster have 
ready a thin slice of fat bacon. Pick over, 
wash and dry the oysters on a cloth. Wrap 
each in a slice of the bacon, and fasten to- 
gether with a small wooden toothpick. Heat 
a frying pan smoking hot. Drop in a num- 
ber of the prepared oysters at a time, and 
turn from one side to the other until the 
bacon is brown and crisp. As taken from 
the pan, drain for an instant on unglazed 
paper. Continue to cook until all are done. 
Serve on a hot platter with a garnish of water- 
cress. Do not remove the toothpicks ; these 
are pulled from the bacon as eaten. 

7. — Clam Boudinettes. 

For clam boudinettes, chop enough washed 
raw clams to measure i^ cupfuls. Add 
them to a sauce made with i tablespoonful of 
butter, I heaping tablespoonful of flour, J^ a 
cupful of milk, ^ of a teaspoonful of salt, a 
dash of cayenne, i teaspoonful of chopped 
156 



October^ 

parsley and ^ of a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice. When cold, shape into balls the size 
of walnuts, dip into beaten egg, roll in fine, 
dried bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot, 
deep fat. 

8. — Rice and Sausages. 
Brown 3 large tablespoonfuls of finely 
chopped onion in 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
or rendered suet. When light colored add 
}i dozen sausages, cover and cook very 
slowly for ten minutes. Add ^ of a pound 
of rice which has been washed and cooked 
in boiling water for ten minutes, i teaspoon- 
ful of salt, X o{ & teaspoonful of pepper and 
I pint of boiling water; cover and cook 
slowly until the rice is tender but unbroken, 
turning through several times with a fork. 

9. — Kentish Toast 

Kentish toast will utilize slices of stale 
bread. Mix together 2 tablespoonfuls of 
flour, I tablespoonful of sugar and a pinch of 
salt, add gradually i egg, beating until 
smooth, then i cupful of milk. Dip the 
sliced bread into this and let stand for half an 
hour on a platter, adding now and then a 
157 



October. 

spoonful or so of the batter until the bread is 
well soaked. Fry in a little butter in a 
spider, turning until golden brown on each 
side. Take from the pan, spread thickly 
with English strawberry jam, pile one on an- 
other, cover closely and keep warm for ten 
minutes before sending to the table. 

10. — Chicken Stewed with 03rsters. 

Free from skin and fat and cut into dice 
sufficient cold chicken to measure i pint. 
Pick over, wash and drain 3 dozen good- 
sized oysters. Into a saucepan put 2 table- 
spoonfuls each of butter and flour, ^ of a 
teaspoonful of salt and ^ of a teaspoonful 
of white pepper. Stir over the fire until well 
mixed then gradually add i pint of rich 
milk, stirring until thick and smooth. Sim- 
mer for three minutes, add the prepared 
chicken and the oysters and stir until the 
latter are nicely plumped and ruffled. Take 
at once from the fire, turn into a heated dish 
and sprinkle with a little finely-chopped 
parsley. 

iz. — Crab Meat on Toast. 

Among the newer canned goods is crab 
meat. This, opened and turned out early in 
158 



October^ 

the morning, is gently simmered for ten min- 
utes with butter and sufficient cream to 
moisten and served on toast for luncheon. 
As variations in seasoning use a little curry 
powder or mustard, lemon or onion juice, 
catsup or chopped parsley. 

12. — Little Bread Puddings. 

Butter a number of custard cups and 
garnish the bottom of each with raisins or 
candied cherries, then fill the cups with 
finely crumbled stale bread. Scald i pint 
of milk and dissolve in it ^ of a cupful of 
sugar, add i teaspoonful of vanilla and let 
stand off the fire for ten minutes, then add 
I teaspoonful of vanilla and 4' well -beaten 
eggs. Baste the bread with this until the 
cups are full, stand in a pan partly filled with 
warm water and place in a moderate oven 
until the puddings are firm in the centre. 
Serve with a liquid sauce. 

13. — Poor Man's Pie. 

{Apple Dish.) 

This is an odd recipe which was copied 
from a manuscript cook book found in a Ver- 
169 



October. 

mont attic. Pare 6 large greenings (apples) ; 
sprinkle generously with sugar and dnna- 
n)on. Take about i pint of buttermilk with 
large lumps of butter floating in it. Beat 
2 eggs till light, add ^ a cupful of sugar, 
2 teaspoonfuls soda, a pinch of salt and 
I pint of flour. Make a smooth batter, 
spread evenly over the prepared apples and 
place in the oven to bake. Serve with thick 
sweet cream sweetening the cream. Cream 
which is thus diluted goes much farther and 
is very delicious. Flavored with vanilla, it 
makes a pleasing change from plain cream. 

14. — Eggs in Bread Sauce. 

Slice I good-sized onion, cover with boil- 
ing water and let stand for five minutes. 
Drain, add i pint of milk, 2 cloves, }^ of a 
blade of mace and ^ of a teaspoonful of 
salt and simmer for half an hour. Rub 
through a sieve, pressing through as much 
of the pulp as possible. Into a saucepan put 
I heaping tablespoonful each of butter and 
flour, set over the fire and when melted and 
mixed add the milk and onion and stir until 
smooth and thickened. Now add ^ of a 
160 



October^ 

cupful of fine stale bread crumbs and salt 
and pepper to taste. Simmer for five min- 
utes and turn into a buttered baking dish. 
Drop in carefully 5 eggs and place in a hot 
oven until the eggs are set. 

15.— Roast Mutton, Marinated. 

Chop fine or grate 2 onions, add to them 
the juice of 2 lemons, i tablespoonful of olive 
oil, 4 tablespoonfuls of syrup from sweet 
pickled peaches and 2 tablespoonfuls of cur- 
rant jelly, melted. Make holes with a skewer 
all over a good piece of mutton, rub in salt 
and pepper, lay in a dish and pour over it 
the mixture, and stand in a cold place. 
Baste the meat with this mixture several 
times before roasting. Use what remains of 
the marinade for basting while in the oven, 
add a little water, thicken, strain and serve 
as gravy. This marinade may be varied by 
using different ingredients. 

16. — Vegetable Cones. 

A simple variation in serving is that of 
vegetable cones. Spinach, 'sweet potatoes 
161 



October^ 

and turnips can be used in this way. Boil, 
drain and mash the vegetables separately, 
seasoning well. A cone-shaped wine glass 
or a tin mold can be used, but it must be 
well greased. Keep the prepared vegetables 
hot, pack in sufficient of one kind to fill the 
mold, then turn out on a hot pan or platter. 
The two vegetables are alternated in cones 
and served round the meat. For the sake of 
contrast in color one of the two vegetables 
should always be white. 

17.— Nut Custard. 

Nuts may be added to boiled or baked 
custard, almonds, hickory and walnuts or 
pecans being the favorite varieties; the al- 
monds should be blanched and cut into strips, 
the other varieties are coarsely chopped. For 
baked custard they are placed in the cups or 
dish and the raw mixture poured over them, 
but they should be stirred into boiled custard, 
as it is taken from the fire. In either case 
vanilla or a few drops of almond extract is 
the appropriate flavoring. 

18. — Minced Kidneys. 
Split and remove the tubes from 3 veal 
kidneys, then chop fine. Heat i large Ublc- 
162 



October^ 

spoonful of butter in a pan^ add the kidneys 
and fry until golden brown, turning and 
shaking frequently. Sprinkle over i tea- 
spoonful of flour, turn until absorbed and 
browned with the meat, then add ^ of a 
cupful of brown stock or gravy, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of thick tomato sauce, a dash of pepper, 
I tablespoonful of chopped parsley, i tea- 
spoonful of onion juice and i teaspoonful of 
vinegar or lemon juice. Stir and cook for 
three minutes, then turn out on a hot platter. 

19.— Fig Suet Pudding. 
Free kidney suet from membranes and put 
through a food chopper sufficient to measure 
^ of a cupful. Cut fine enough figs to make 
I cupful and crumble the inside of a stale 
loaf of bread to measure i pint. Sprinkle 
the figs and suet with 3 tablespoonfuls of 
flour, add the crumbs, J^ of a cupful of 
sugar, I teaspoonful of baking powder and 
J4 of a teaspoonful of salt. Beat well to- 
gether 4 eggs, add i cupful of milk and stir 
into the dry mixture, add i teaspoonful of 
vanilla or any desired flavoring and turn into 
a well-greased mold. Cover and steam for 
three hours. For the sauce, cream ^ of a 
1^ 



October^ 

cupful of butter^ beat gradually into it i cup- 
ful of sifted powdered sugar, i teaspoonful of 
vanilla and 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry wine. 
Just before serving add 2 tablespoonfuls of 
boiling water and the white of an egg whipped 
to a stiff froth and beat until the mixture is 
foamy all through. 

20. — Steak with Onions. . 
While steak with onions is liked, some of 
the family may not be able to digest the 
onions, yet desire the combination of flavors. 
Have the steak boned and delivered a day 
ahead of time. Spread over it 3 or 4 onions, 
finely chopped ; roll, tie and set in the cold 
storeroom. Scrape oflf the onions, fry and 
serve them separately for those who. can eat 
theth. 

ai. — Nut and Potato Croquettes. 

Coarsely chop sufficient black walnut 
meats to measure i cupful. Mix them with 
I cupful of mashed and seasoned pota- 
toes and I cupful of soft bread crumbs. 
Stir in 2 well-beaten eggs. Add a high sea- 
soning of salt, pepper and onion juice, a few 
drops of lemon juice and 3 tablespoonfuls of 
164 



Odobet0 

beef stock. When cold mold into croquettes, 
dip each into beaten egg, roll in fine crumbs, 
and fry in deep smoking-hot fat. 

22 — Chicken Livers a la Supreme. 
(/« t/uf Chafing Dish,) 

Have the livers (one for each person) 
washed, drained and quartered ; in a second 
bowl have i cupful of fresh mushrooms 
which have been peeled and broken in 
small pieces. Have seasonings on tiny but- 
ter dishes or Japanese ware. Put i table- 
spoonful of butter in the blazer over the 
lamp. Add the livers and let them brown ; 
dredge over them i tablespoonful of flour 
and stir until it is absorbed then add gradu- 
ally ^ of a cupful of chicken broth and }i 
of a cupful of cream and stir until thick. 
Now add the mushrooms, salt and pepper to 
taste, cover and simmer for ten minutes. Stir 
in I scant teaspoonful of lemon juice and 
serve. 

23. — Carrots and Peas. 

To those who are fond of both carrots and 

peas a combination of the two vegetables 

will be agreeable. Use young carrots cut in 

half-inch dice; boil the vegetables separately, 

165 



OdoBer* 

mix together with a milk or butter sauce, and 
cook slowly for ten minutes before serving. 
Carrots and small new potatoes may be pre- 
pared and served in the same way. 

24. — Hot Fruit Shortcakes. 

Hot fruit shortcakes are made with a rich 
biscuit foundation. Mix together 3 cupfuls 
of flour, ^ of a teaspoonful of salt, i table- 
spoonful of sugar and 2 teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder and rub in with the fingers ^ of 
a cupful of butter. Mix to a soft dough 
with sweet milk, roll out in two round or ob- 
long cakes an inch thick and bake in a 
quick oven. Tear open, spread with butter, 
add the fruit filling and serve with whipped 
cream or a custard sauce. Where canned 
* fruit is used the syrup may be heated, slightly 
thickened with arrowroot or corn-starch and 
used as a sauce. Figs, prunes and other 
stewed dried fruits may be used, as well as 
bananas, oranges or any fresh fruit attainable, 
making a wide range from which to choose. 

25. — Foie Gras with Truffles. 

Soak }4 ounce of gelatine in 2 tablespoon- 

fuls of cold water for fifteen minutes. Put 

}i pint of beef stock to heat, add i table- 

166 



October^ 

spoonful of onion juice, i tablespoonful of 
lemon juice, i teaspoonful of salt and a pinch 
of cayenne. When it boils add the gelatine, 
stir until dissolved, and strain. Add a 
tablespoonfuls of chopped truffles. Cut some 
foie gras in thin slices, and as the sauce is 
setting coat each slice carefully with it. 
Place on ice to chill. Serve on a pretty dish 
in an overlapping circle, and fill the centre 
with a mayonnaise of celery and oranges in 
equal parts. This dish with dainty rolls is 
excellent for the main dish at a supper, fol- 
lowed by some good sweet. 

26. — Creamed Sweetbreads. 
Allow a good-sized pair of sweetbreads for 
three people. Drop them iifto cold water as 
soon as received and change the water fre- 
quently until all blood is drawn out and the 
breads look nice and white. Place them in a 
saucepan with i scant teaspoonful of salt, ^ 
of a bay leaf, a small blade of mace and a 
thin slice of onion ; cover with boiling water 
and simmer for twenty minutes. Drop again 
into cold water until chilled, then drain. 
Remove tubes and fat and with the fingers 
pull into small pieces. For each pair of 
167 



October. 

breads prepare ij^ cupfuls of white sauce. 
Put into a saucepan i heaping tablespoonful 
each of butter and flour, ^ of a teaspoonful 
of salt and ^ of a teaspoonful of white pep- 
per and stir over the fire until mixed. Add 
slowly i^ cupfuls of hot milk, stirring until 
the sauce is smooth and thick. This may be 
done early in the morning and the prepared 
breads added. At the proper time reheat in 
a double boiler or over hot water and in serv- 
ing garnish the dish with toast points and 
tufts of parsley. 

27.— Jellied Ham Salad. 
Soak ^ of a box of gelatine in }{ of 2l 
cupful of cold water, add J^ of a cupful of 
boiling chicken stock and strain. Add i 
cupful of chopped ham which has been 
highly seasoned with cayenne and a little 
lemon juice. Let stand until it begins to 
thicken, then add i cupful of cream whipped 
to a stiff froth and turn into a wetted mold. 
When firm turn out on a bed of blanched let- 
tuce leaves and garnish with mayonnaise. 

a8.— Codfish, Cuban Style. 
Pick fine i cupful of salt cod, packed 
measure. Soak in several waters until it is 
168 



October^ 

quite freshened. In i tablespoonful of but- 
ter fry I chopped onion ; when nicely colored 
add the drained fish, sufficient water to cover, 
I cupful of stewed tomato and i tablespoon- 
ful of chopped green pepper, and stew slowly 
for an hour. Season to taste and pour over 
slices of toast. 

29. — Scallops en Brochette. 

Wash the scallops, which should be large 
ones. Drain, pour boiling water over them, 
let stand for five minutes, then drain and dry 
on a towel. Have ready inch squares of 
very thinly sliced bacon. On the skewers 
string alternately the scallops and bacon, 
having a piece of the latter at the beginning 
and end of each skewer. If large, ^ dozen 
scallops may be allowed for each skewer. 
Dip each skewer as prepared into melted 
butter, roll in fresh bread crumbs and broil 
over a clear hot fire for twelve minutes ; or 
drop into smoking hot fat and cook until well 
browned, then drain on unglazed paper. 

30. — Cocoanut Cream. 
Beat the whites of 3 eggs just enough to 
break the stringiness, add i cupful of milk 
169 



Odobef^ 

and stir over the fire in a double boiler until 
as thick as custard. Soak ^ of a box of 
gelatine in ^ of a cupful of cold water ; take 
the cooked custard from the fire, add the 
softened gelatine and stir until dissolved. 
Add five tablespoonfuls of sugar, stir again 
until dissolved and strain. Add i teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla and i cupful of freshly grated 
cocoanut and let stand until cold and begin- 
ning to set. Add i cupful of thick cream 
whipped to a solid froth, pour into a wetted 
mold and set on ice. 

31. — Mock Pate de Foie Gras. 

Trim a good-sized calf's liver and lard it 
thickly over the top with small lardoons of 
larding pork. In a deep pan place a half- 
inch bed of finely-chopped carrots, onions 
and celery, add 2 stalks of parsley, i bay 
leaf, I blade of mace, 4 cloves and i scant 
teaspoonful of salt. On this lay the meat, 
add sufficient boiling water to half cover the 
liver, cover closely with a second pan and 
braise in a moderate oven for two hours. 
Remove the liver to a bowl, and strain over 
it the gravy, pressing the vegetables to get as 
much as possible. Cover and let stand over 
170 



October^ 

night. Chop fine^ then pound the liver to a 
smooth paste, adding sufficient of the liquor 
to moisten. Press through a sieve, add cay- 
enne to taste, more salt if necessary and ^ 
of a pound of soft butter. Beat until smooth, 
then pack into little jars. Over the top of 
each jar pour ^ of an inch of melted butter 
or very sweet dripping and set away in a cold 
place. This will keep for two weeks. 



171 



NOVEMBER. 



I. — Pumpkin Soup. 
{A French Recipe}) 
Pare a small, rich, yellow pumpkin and 
remove the seeds. Cut the flesh into small 
pieces and put on to boil in a little water. 
When done to the consistency of marmalade 
stir into it 2 tablespoonfuls of butter and a 
saltspoonful of salt. Stir till quite smooth 
and pass through a sieve. Have ready i 
quart of milk heated to boiling, into which 
stir I tablespoonful of sugar. Pour slowly 
on the pumpkin and let them boil for five 
minutes, stirring carefully. Have small 
croutons of toasted bread in the tureen and 
pour the soup over them. This is a soup of 
most delicate and delicious flavor and a beau- 
tiful golden yellow in color. 

2. — Cake Fritters with Marmalade. 
Cut stale, moderately rich cake into three- 
quarter-inch slices, then into circles or squares 
172 



November. 

of uniform size. Dip each into a raw custard 
made of ^ of a cupful of rich milk to each 
egg. Roll in fine bread crumbs and fry 
golden brown in smoking-hot fat. Drain on 
unglazed paper, roll in powdered sugar and 
on each spread a small portion of orange 
marmalade, then serve. 

3. — Slappers. 

'' Slappers " is the old-time name for thick 
Indian pancakes, i pint of corn-meal, i 
good half teaspoonful of salt and i table- 
spoonful of butter are put into a bowl and 
enough boiling water from the tea-kettle 
added to scald, then the bowl is covered and 
set aside until cool (this is frequently done 
the night before). 2 or 3 beaten eggs are 
now added, the number depending upon the 
egg supply (this is the old-fashioned recipe), 
also ^ a cupful of flour and a little milk if 
necessary, but the batter should be very 
thick. ^ of a teaspoonful of baking powder 
is beaten in at the last and spoonfuls of the 
batter are dropped into a hot spider contain- 
ing a little hot fat. The cooking should be 
slow, three to four minutes before turning and 
they should be sent at once to the table. 
173 



November. 

4. — Macaroni Timbales. 
Macaroni timbales are a little troublesome, 
but are good enough to make it worth while 
to prepare them occasionally. Cook i dozen 
sticks of pipe macaroni in boiling salted 
water, drain and lay them in cold water until 
ready to use, then dry on a towel and cut 
into rings. Thickly grease a pint bowl with 
soft butter, line it with a layer of the maca- 
roni so arranged as to show the holes. Chop 
fine i}i cupfuls of cold meat, mix it with a 
sauce made with i tablespoonful of flour, ^ 
of a cupful of milk or stock and a high sea- 
soning of salt, pepper and onion juice. Add 
2 well-beaten eggs, stir all together and fill 
the bowl, taking care not to disturb the mac- 
aroni. Steam for an hour and serve with a 
tomato sauce. 

5. — Chicken a la Dreux. 
For each pint of cold boiled chicken freed 
from skin and fat and cut very fine allow i 
tablespoonful of butter, a tablespoonfuls of 
flour, I cupful of chicken broth, J^ of a cup- 
ful of finely-chopped mushrooms, i large 
trufHe, chopped, 3 tablespoonfuls of Maderia, 
9 tablespoonfuls of finely-chopped celery, and 
174 



November^ 

salt and pepper to taste. Make a thick sauce 
with the flour, butter and broth, add the 
chicken, seasonings, mushrooms and truffle 
and keep hot in the double boiler until ready 
to serve. Then stir in quickly the Madeira 
and celery and serve in small paper cases, 
sprinkling over the top of each ^ teaspoonful 
of finely-chopped sweet red pepper. If the 
fresh red peppers are not in market, use a can 
of Spanish pimientos. 

6. — Panned 0}^ter8 in the Chafing-Dish. 

The chafing-dish seems made to order for 
the evening repast, and even a tyro in the art 
can pan oysters in it. Have them picked 
over, rinsed and drained beforehand. For 
each 25, put into the dish i tablespoonful of 
butter, yioiz, teaspoonful of salt and a good 
shake of pepper. Light the lamp and when 
the butter is hot add the oysters, cover for a 
moment or two; stir carefully until the gills 
ruffle and the oysters look plump, then put 
out the light and serve them. 

7. — Deviled Salmon. 
Two cupfuls of cream sauce, i can of sal- 
mon picked fine, 3 tablespoonfuls Worcester- 
176 



shire sauce and the juice of a lemon. Salt 
and pepper as desired. Fill a baking dish, 
or individual baking dishes, cover the top 
with buttered crumbs and brown in a hot 
oven. 

8.— Rice Mold with Maple Sugar. 

Wash well i cupful of rice, drop into boil- 
ing salted water and keep at a galloping boil 
until the grains are tender all through. This 
will take from twelve to eighteen minutes, 
according to the variety of rice. Drain, 
place in a saucepan with >^ of a cupful of 
milk and ^ of a cupful of cream and cook 
very slowly until the liquid is absorbed. 
Have ready a buttered mold. Fill this with 
the rice, tapping it sharply from time to time 
that the rice may settle well. Stand in the 
open oven for five minutes then turn out on 
a heated dish. Serve with an abundance of 
good butter and scraped maple sugar. This 
is an old New England dish and a very good 
one. 

9.— Creole Rice. 
From a large ripe red peppers remove the 
veins and seeds and chop fine; peel i. large 
176 



Novemher^ 

white onion and chop fine with js( of a pound 
of raw, lean ham. In a kettle melt 2 table- 
spoonfuls of lard or butter, and when hot add 
the peppers, onion and ham and cook, stir- 
ring occasionally for ten minutes. Add i 
cupful of well-washed and drained rice and 
cook for five minutes longer, then add 3 cup- 
fuls of strong beef soup or broth, cover and 
cook slowly for half an hour. Skin and cut 
fine 4 large tomatoes (or take about ^ of a 
can), add them to the rice with i teaspoonful 
of salt. Cover, draw aside where the cook- 
ing will be slow and the rice will not stick to 
the bottom of the kettle. When it is tender 
and has absorbed all the broth, stir in with a 
fork I tablespoonful of butter and let it stand 
for five minutes longer. 

10.— Fairy Pudding. 
Put a tumbler of firm quince jelly into a 
saucepan, add i cupful of boiling water, stir 
until the jelly is melted and the liquid at the 
boiling point. Add quickly to it 2 table- 
spoonfuls of com- starch mixed with a pinch 
of salt and sufficient cold water to make a 
thin paste, stir until clear and smooth, then 
draw to one side and cook slowly for ten 
177 



November^ 

minutes. Turn into a large bowl and when 
cold and beginning to stiffen beat long and 
hard with an egg beater until it is quite light, 
add the whipped whites of 2 eggs and con- 
tinue to beat until it is a feathery mass. 
Turn into wetted molds and set aside, serv- 
ing very cold with cream or a custard sauce. 
Any firm jelly will do but quince gives a pe- 
culiarly delicate flavor. 

II.— Friar's Omelet 

Add to I pint of hot strained apple sauce 
sufficient sugar to sweeten and 3 tablespoonfuls 
of butter, then set aside until cold. Add to 
it 5 well-beaten eggs and turn into a deep 
baking-dish which has been thickly greased 
with soft butter, then dredged with fine bread 
crumbs. Over the top sprinkle a thick layer 
of the bread crumbs and bake in a hot oven 
ior about half an hour. 

12. — Walnut Stew. 
From I pint of walnut meats remove bits of 
shell, pour over sufficient boiling water to 
cover, let stand for three minutes and drain. 
Put into a saucepan with sufficient beef stock 
to cover or, if no stock is at hand, use water to 
178 



November^ 

which is added y^ ofz. teaspoonful of salt, i 
blade of mace, a slice of onion, a stalk of cel- 
ery and ^ of a bay. leaf. Boil for fifteen 
minutes and drain. Prepare a brown sauce 
by cooking together in another saucepan i 
tablespoonful of butter and i heaping table- 
spoonful of flour. When brown add i cup- 
ful of stock (that previously used may be 
taken) and stir until thick and smooth. Sea- 
son to taste with salt and pepper, add the 
nuts and simmer for ten minutes, then stir in 
^ of a cupful of chopped celery and cook for 
two minutes. Serve garnished with toast 
points. 

13.— Hot Potato Salad. 
A hot salad to be served at luncheon is 
prepared by putting 4 thin slices of bacon 
into a frying pan and cooking slowly until all 
the fat is tried out. To this is added 4 ta- 
blespoonfuls of vinegar and the pan drawn to 
the side of the fire, while 4 hot boiled pota- 
toes are cut into slices or small dice. The 
vinegar dressing is poured over them, they 
are seasoned, turned out on a hot dish, 
sprinkled with finely chopped parsley and 
served as an accompaniment to fried sausages. 
179 



November^ 

14. — Baked Rice and Cheese. 

When boiling rice for the noonday meal 
cook an extra quantity and set aside about i 
pint. Make a white sauce with i heaping 
tablespoonful each of flour and butter, }i of 
a teaspoonful of white pepper and ij4 cupfuls 
of milk. In a deep baking-dish place al- 
ternate layers of the rice, sauce and grated 
cheese, having the last layer cheese. Place 
in a hot oven until browned. 

15. — Apple Salad. 

Pick over a bunch of watercress, freshen in 
cold water for an hour, then dry thoroughly 
in a towel. Sprinkle with a French dressing 
and arrange in a salad dish. Quarter 3 tart 
red apples, remove the cores and cut in quar- 
ter-inch sections. Arrange these in and 
among the watercress, add more dressing and 
serve with roast duck. 

xC— Hamburg Steak with Peppers. 

When hamburg steak is served for dinner 

it should be flattened out into a large oval 

cake about an inch and a half thick and 

broiled ; so prepared it is sometimes spoken 

180 



November^ 

of as a broiled chopped or minced steak. 
As an accompaniment to this or a steak of 
tenderer cut, quarter green or red sweet pep- 
pers, remove seeds and veins and fry quickly 
in deep fat or a little butter. Serve these on 
and around the meat. 



i7.--Tomato Croquettes. 

Stew together for twenty minutes ^ of a 
can of tomatoes, i tablespoonful of chopped 
onion, i sprig of parsley, ^ of a bay leaf, 4 
cloves and sufficient salt and pepper to give 
a very high seasoning. Rub through a sieve. 
In a clean saucepan melt together 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter and 5 tablespoonfuls of 
flour. Add a cupfuls of the strained tomato 
and stir and cook for ten minutes. Take 
from the fire and set aside until cold. Flour 
the hands and carefully mold into small 
croquettes. Dip each into slightly-beaten 
egg and roll in fine bread crumbs. Let stand 
for twenty minutes, then repeat the dipping 
and rolling in crumbs. Fry at once in a 
kettle of smoking-hot fat and drain on un- 
glazed paper. 

181 



November^ 

x8. — Hashed Brown Potatoes. 

Chop rather fine sufficient cold boiled po- 
tatoes to measure i pint and season them 
with I scant teaspoonful of salt and % oi dk 
teaspoonful of pepper. Put i large Uble- 
spoonful of butter in a frying-pan and place 
over the fire. When hot put in the potatoes 
and press them carefully down on the bottom 
of the pan. Turn the pan round from time 
to time and cook slowly without stirring until 
the potatoes are golden brown at the bottom 
and well crusted together. Roll over very 
slowly and carefully and turn out on a heated 
platter, sprinkling with a litde chopped 
parsley. 

zg. — Rice with Dates, Orange Sauce. 
A simple luncheon-sweet is prepared by 
cooking ^ of a cupful of rice in i pint of 
milk in a double boiler until tender. Just 
before dishing it, stir in with a fork ^ of a 
cupful of finely-cut dates and serve with a 
sauce made with i cupful of boiling water, 
I tablespoonful of cornstarch dissolved in 
cold water, )^ of a cupful of sugar, i tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice and ^ of a cupful 
of orange juice. 

183 



November^ 

20. — Bubble and Squeak. 

Bubble and squeak is the old name for a 
warmed over dish of cold meat and cabbage, 
the meat being usually corned beef though 
cold boiled or baked beef was also used. 
Cut about 2 pounds of lean cold meat in 
small, rather thin slices. Put them in a pan 
with I tablespoonful of dripping and let them 
color quickly. Chop the boiled cabbage and 
put it into a saucepan with 2 tablespoonfuls 
of butter, salt and pepper to taste and stir 
over the fire until smoking hot and just be- 
ginning to color. Turn it out on a heated 
platter and press it down in the centre, in 
this hollow arrange the browned meat and 
send at once to the table. 

21. — Apple Slump. 

A nice hot lunch dish is apple slump. Put 
quartered or sliced apples into a deep kettle, 
add sugar and a spoonful of butter and cook 
until the apples are partly tender. Put over 
them a rich biscuit crust rolled out two-thirds 
of an inch thick, cover and let the apples 
simmer gently for forty-five minutes; un- 
cover and place in a hot oven until browned. 
183 



November^ 

22. — Poached Eggs a la Creole. 

Stew together i can of tomatoes (or i 
quart freshly cut), i green pepper seeded 
and cut fine and ^ of a teaspoonful of salt. 
When the tomato is reduced one-half, rub all 
through a sieve. Have ready for each per- 
son a round or slice of toast and a neatly 
poached tgg. Melt and brown 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter in a frying pan, add i 
tablespoonful of vinegar and boil for half a 
minute. Pour the tomato on a platter, lay 
on it the toast, arrange on each piece one of 
the poached eggs and over all pour the but- 
ter mixture, sending immediately to the 
table. 

23. — Hash with Green Peppers. 
As a variation for ordinary hash add to a 
dish of it ^ of a green pepper finely chopped 
and ^ of a cupful of chopped ham. It will 
give a delightful flavor. 

24. — Cranberry Roly-Poly. 

A rather short biscuit dough is rolled out 

half an inch thick and spread with a layer of 

chopped cranberries and granulated sugar. 

This is rolled up, laid on a buttered plate, 

184 



November. 

steamed for forty minutes, then placed in the 
oven for ten minutes to dry oflf. With this 
roly-poly either hard or soft sauce may be 
served. 

25. — Braised Lamb's Liver. 
There are many who may not know that 
a lamb's liver is quite as delicate as one from 
a calf while it has the additional merit of be- 
ing less expensive. For braising arrange it 
in a small deep pan or baking dish on a 
bed of vegetables — sliced onions, carrots and 
turnips — add a bouquet of herbs (parsley, 
savory and thyme) and about a pint of stock, 
sauce or water; stewed tomatoes may well 
be added and a teaspoonful of chopped 
green pepper. Bake in a moderate oven for 
from two to three hours. 

26.— Deviled Turkey Legs. 

Score each turkey leg with deep gashes and 
rub into the cuts a paste made by mixing to- 
gether soft butter, salt, cayenne and a little 
made mustard, proportioning the quantity of 
each ingredient according to taste. Broil 
over a clear fire. Have ready a good brown 
sauce made with strong stock. Add to it 
186 



November. 

just before serving a small spoonful of 
Worcestershire and a little made mustard 
and boil up once. Serve the legs on a hot 
dish garnished with water-cress and send in 
the sauce in a boat. 

27. — Roast Mutton, Breton Style. 

The Breton way of serving roast mutton is 
to push a clove of garlic into the knuckle end 
of the leg and to serve with it a garnish of 
red beans. The beans are soaked and slowly 
boiled until tender then drained and turned 
into the pan with the meat an hour before the 
latter is done. Or, after draining, the beans 
are lightly fried in a little dripping and 
chopped onion and heaped round the meat as 
it is ready for serving. 

28. — Hungarian Kidney. 

Wash a good-sized beef kidney and with a 
sharp knife cut off the outer part of each lobe 
rejecting the central, purplish portion and the 
tubes. In a saucepan put i}i tablespoonfuls 
of butter, ^ of a teaspoonful of salt, ^ of 
a teaspoonful of white pepper ; when hot add 
the pieces of kidney and shake and cook fast 
for five minutes; add 4 tablespoonfuls of 
186 



November. 

good beef stock, 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry 
and I tablespoonful of finely-chopped mush- 
rooms, cover and simmer for ten minutes. 
Mix together the yolks of 2 raw eggs and 
^ of a cupful of milk, add to the contents 
of the saucepan, stir until the sauce begins 
to thicken, then take at once from the fire 
and serve in a hot dish. 

29. — Spanish Croquettes. 

Pick over and wash i cupful of rice in 
several waters. Put in a double boiler with 
^ of a teaspoonful of salt and sufficient 
milk to cover and cook, adding more milk 
if necessary and stirring occasionally with a 
fork, until the rice is done and the milk all 
absorbed. Add ^ of a cupful of sugar, the 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs and i teaspoonful of 
cinnamon, and mix lightly, continuing the 
cooking until the rice thickens again, then 
take from the fire and spread on a buttered 
platter. When cold and firm shape into flat 
rounds, dip into slightly-beaten egg and roll 
in fine dry bread crumbs. Fry in smoking- 
hot fat and drain for a moment on unglazed 
paper, then with a spoon scoop out the centre 
187 



November. 

of each croquette, fill with currant or any 
jelly preferred, dust with powdered sugar and 
serve at once. 

30. — Pan Dowdy. 
Pare, quarter, core and slice sufficient tart 
apples to measure 3 quarts. Spread them 
about two inches deep in a large shallow 
earthen baking-dish and add i cupful of 
sugar, I cupful of water, i tablespoonful of 
butter cut in bits and grated nutmeg to taste. 
Cover with a plain pie or rich biscuit crust 
rolled nearly an inch thick and bake in a 
very moderate oven for two hours and a half. 
Cover and stand in the warming oven or shelf 
for an hour, then serve with sugar and cream. 



180 



DECEMBER, 



I. — Venetian Fritters. 

Wash 3 ounces of rice in several waters 
until clean, place in a double boiler with 

1 pint of cold milk and cook slowly until the 
milk is absorbed, adding when nearly done 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, i tablespoonful of 
butter, a pinch of salt and ^ of the grated 
rind of a lemon. When quite dry add 

3 ounces of cleaned currants, 4 ounces of 
tart apple chopped fine, i heaping teaspoon- 
ful of fiour and 3 well-beaten eggs, and turn 
through carefully with a fork until the eggs 
are thickened, then set aside, covered, until 
cold and firm. Take up in small teaspoon- 
fuls, drop into a saucer of fine dry crumbs 
and roll until covered. Dip into slightly- 
beaten egg, roll again in the crumbs and fry 
golden brown in smoking-hot fat. 

2. — Peas in Turnip Cups. 
Select white turnips of medium size and 
rather flat in shape. Pare thinly and boil in 
188 



December^ 

salted water until tender, then with knife 
and spoon dig out the centre of each until 
a nicely-shaped cup is formed. Drop into 
cold, slightly-salted water until needed, then 
drain and place in a steamer until hot 
through. Fill with green peas and sprinkle 
with a little finely-chopped parsley. 

3. — Turkish MacaronL 
Break }i pound of macaroni in inch pieces 
and drop it into rapidly-boiling water. Keep 
at a hard boil until the macaroni is tender, 
then drain and let stand in cold water for 
ten minutes. Make a sauce with 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter, 2 scant tablespoonfuls of 
flour, I pint of strained tomato, and salt and 
pepper to taste. Drain and add the maca- 
roni, also }i cupful of blanched almonds cut 
m strips. Simmer fifteen minutes, turn into 
a vegetable dish, sprinkle thickly with grated 
cheese and send to the table. 

4. — Salmon Croquettes. 

One cupful canned salmon, }i a cupful of 

cream sauce, i teaspoonful of lemon juice 

and a dash of cayenne. Salt as desired. 

Spread on a plate to cool. Form into cro- 

190 



December^ 

quettes, dip in crumbs, then in egg, then in 
crumbs again. Fry in deep fat and drain. 

5.— Creole Pilaff. 
Clean and disjoint 2 fowls of moderate 
size, put into a kettle with ^ of a pound of 
bacon, i teaspoonful of salt, ^ of a tea- 
spoonful of pepper, and 2 quarts of boiling 
water, cover and simmer until very tender. 
Take out the chicken and return the broth 
to the fire adding J^ of a cupful of well- 
washed rice. Cook until the rice is almost 
done, then lay in the chicken again to heat 
through. Serve on a platter, the chicken in 
the centre and the rice as a border. A very 
little chopped green pepper is sometimes 
added. 

6. — Macaroon Pudding. 
For macaroon pudding crumble ^ of a 
pound of stale macaroons and pour over 
them I pint of scalded milk. Let stand for 
ten minutes, then add 2 yolks and 2 whole 
eggs beaten with ^ of a cupful of granulated 
sugar and i teaspoonful of vanilla. Pour into 
a baking dish and bake in a moderate oven 
until just set. Cover with a meringue made 
191 



DecemBer^ 

by whipping together the 2 reserved whites 
and 2 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar; dust 
with a little more sugar and return to the 
oven until browned. 

7. — Oyster Toast. 

Pick over and drain 4 small oysters. In a 
saucepan prepare a pint of thin sauce^ using 
I large tablespoonful each of butter and flour, 
I pint of milk, ^ of a teaspoonful of salt and 
^ of a teaspoonful of pepper. Scald the 
oyster liquor separately, skim carefully and 
add to it I teaspoonful of butter. Have 
ready 8 or 10 slices of thin crisp toast, dip 
each into the hot oyster liquor and lay on a 
heated platter. Drop into the sauce the 
drained oysters and stir over the fire until 
they are plump and well ruffled. Pour at 
once over the oysters and send to the table. 

8.— Relichen. 
Relichen is an old-time but very good dish 
which is still highly popular in certain sec- 
tions of Pennsylvania and other states. Plain 
tripe is selected and after being boiled until 
tender it is cut into pieces three by seven 
inches ; these are doubled and sewed to form 
192 



December^ 

little bags. A stuffing is made by adding to 
each quart of chopped raw beef i cupful of 
raw fat pork^ ^ of an onion chopped fine, 
I teaspoonful of celery seed, ^ of a bay leaf 
rubbed to a powder, i tablespoonful of salt 
and I teaspoonful of pepper. The bags are 
filled with this, sewed up and boiled gently 
in salted water for four hours. They are 
then transferred to spiced vinegar and left for 
six days, when they are ready to slice and 
serve cold. 

g. — Baked Indian Pudding. 
The old-fashioned Indian pudding is simply 
made but requires long, slow cooking to de- 
velop its fine flavor. Boil i quart of milk, 
sift into it with the hand ^ of a cupful of 
corn-meal and stir until smoothly thickened, 
then cook for ten minutes. Stir into it i 
cupful of molasses, i teaspoonful of salt, ^ 
of a cupful of chopped suet, ^ of a teaspoon- 
ful of ground ginger and i teaspoonful of 
cinnamon, add i pint of cold milk, turn into 
a baking-dish and put into a slow oven. 
Every half hour add i pint of cold milk and 
stir through weU until 3 quarts in all have 
been used, then bake without disturbing for 
193 



three hours longer. Serve hot or cold with 
plain cream. 

10. — Mixed Meat Salad. 

Chop fine J^ of a cup each of cold fried 
bacon and boiled ham; dice i heaping cup 
of cold veal. Shred fine enough red cabbage 
to make i pint. Put the meat and cabbage 
in layers in a salad bowl, sprinkle each layer 
with chopped white of egg and French dress- 
ing. Over the top pour the remainder of 
the dressing. Garnish with a circle of grated 
or sieved egg yolk and dots of chopped 
parsley. 

II. — Baked Apple Sago. 
Wash and soak i cupful of sago over 
night. Drain and boil until clear in 3 cup- 
fuls of water. Add ^ a cupful of sugar, a 
few drops of cinnamon extract or a small 
piece .of stick cinnamon and pour over a dish 
of cored and pared apples. Bake in a 
moderate oven until the apples are tender. 
Whip the whites of a eggs to a soft froth, add 
2 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and beat 
until the meringue is stiff enough to cut with 
a knife. Heap over the top of the dish, dust 
194 



Dcccmbtf* 

thickly with powdered sugar and return to 
the oven until slightly colored. Serve hot or 
cold with cream or a cold boiled custard. 

za.— Cod Baked with Tomato Sauce. 
Prepare i pint or 3 cupfuls of good tomato 
sauce. Skin a tail piece of cod, a thick slice 
of halibut or any smaller firm white-fleshed 
fish, lay it on a baking-pan and baste with 
about J^ of a cupful of the sauce. Bake in a 
hot oven until the flesh begins to draw from 
the bones, basting every ten minutes with a 
little of the sauce. Keep the remainder hot 
and serve in a boat with the fish. 

13.— Molded Fig Pudding. 
Molded fig pudding calls for a cooked 
custard made with i pint of milk, the yolks 
o^ 3 ^gs and 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, to 
which is added, when taken from the fire, 
>^ of a box of gelatine soaked in J^ of a cup- 
ful of cold water. When beginning to thicken, 
I teaspoonful of vanilla and the stiffly whipped 
whites of the eggs are added, and all beaten 
until quite stiff; it is then turned into a mold 
previously lined with figs which have been 
soaked, split and dipped into a firm fruit 
196 



December. 

jelly— currant or apple — ^warmed just enough 
to partly liquefy, 

14. — Beef Kidney Saute. 
This preparation of beef kidney will appeal 
especially to the men of the household. With 
a sharp knife chip off all the outer light part 
of each lobe> throwing away the purplish 
core. Heat 2 tablespoonfuls of butter in a 
frying-paU; add the kidney and i tablespoon- 
ful of chopped onion and shake and stir over 
a hot fire for about three minutes. Add 
I tablespoonful of flour, stir again, add 8 
tablespoonfuls of stock or water, 4 table- 
spoonfuls of sherry wine and a bit of powdered 
assafoetida about the size of a pin head. Stir 
until the sauce thickens, then turn quickly 
into a hot dish. 

X5,— Waffles, 

WafHes make a nice finish for lunch and 
can be raised with either yeast or baking 
powder. When the quick waffles are pre- 
ferred, mix together i pint of floiu: and ^ of 
a teaspoonful of salt. Beat the yolks of 3 
eggs, add i cupful of milk and stir into the 
flour. Melt and add i tablespoonful of but- 
19a 



Decend>er^ 

ter and, after beating hard, the stiffly whipped 
whites of the eggs and 2 teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. Have the waffle iron very 
hot and grease it thoroughly before baking 
each waffle. Put the batter into a pitcher, 
half fill the hollow spaces in the iron, cover 
and bake, turning once. Comb or strained 
honey, with plenty of butter, makes a fine 
accompaniment. 

16. — Cardinal Jelly. 
Cardinal jelly is made of cranberries 
cooked, pulped, sweetened and boiled to a 
jelly (or stiffened with gelatine), turned into 
an oval mold lined with sultana raisins, and 
when served, garnished with whipped cream. 

17. — Sausages and Fried Apples. 
Prick the sausages well with a fork. Place 
in a deep frying-pan ; pour in enough boil- 
ing water to cover the bottom; cover and 
cook over a moderate fire. When the water 
evaporates, remove the cover and turn several 
times, that they may be nicely browned. 
When done, transfer them to a hot platter or 
lay on a pan and keep hot in the open oven. 
Core a number of large tart apples, but do 
197 



DccciYibtf* 

not pare. Cut them in rings half an inch 
thick and fry brown in the sausage fat, turn- 
ing when well colored on the under side. 
Serve round the meat. 

z& — Lamb a la Creole. 

In a stewpan melt 2 scant tablespoonfuls 
of butter, add i green pepper, seeded and 
chopped fine, and 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped 
white onion, cover and cook until slightly 
colored. Stir in ^ of a cupful of flour, and 
when well mixed add i cupful of stewed and 
strained tomatoes and i^ cupfuls of white 
stock or broth from the lamb. When smooth 
and thick add salt to taste and i pint of cold 
boiled lamb. Stir and cook for five minutes 
longer, and serve with rice, which has been 
boiled separately. 

19.— Potato Nests. 

For these it is necessary to have special 
frying baskets with long handles, the baskets 
being round at the bottom and one fitting 
loosely within the other. Pare a number of 
old potatoes and cut into strips or straws as 
for julienne potatoes. Let soak in cold, 
198 



Dcccnibcf^ 

slightly-salted water for half an hour, then 
drain and dry on a towel. Line the larger 
basket with a portion of them and fit over 
them the smaller basket. Have ready a ket- 
tle containing smoking hot fat. Plunge in 
the prepared baskets and cook the potatoes 
golden brown. Lift out and carefully disen- 
gage the baskets from the nest. Drain for a 
moment on unglazed paper. Fill with freshly- 
fried potato balls or strips and sprinkle with 
a little finely-chopped parsley. 

20. — Deviled Smoked Halibut. 

Cut some smoked halibut into wafer-like 
slices. Split a number of thick water crack- 
ers. Mix together over hot water 2 large 
tablespoonfuls of butter, ^ of a teaspoonful 
of made mustard, i tablespoonful of tomato 
catsup, I tablespoonful of chutney or thick 
mustard pickle, i tablespoonful of vinegar, ^ 
of a teaspoonful of salt, and a good dash of 
cayenne. When very hot dip each biscuit 
into this, spread with the sliced halibut and 
wrap each in a sheet of writing paper. Broil 
quickly over a clear fire and serve on a hot 
platter. 

199 



Decembers 

21.— Fish Cutlets. 
Fish cutlets can be made from any firm- 
fleshed fish such as cod or halibut or, where 
color is desired, salmon. The fish is steamed, 
then flaked, well seasoned with salt, pepper, 
lemon juice and chopped parsley and care- 
fully added to a thick sauce ; the proportions 
of the latter are 2 tablespoonfuls each of flour 
and butter to J4 of a pint of milk, and i cup- 
ful of the sauce is sufficient for twice as much 
fish. When cold this mixture is shaped, 
egged, crumbed and fried in deep fat. Where 
any quantity of shad is left from a previous 
dinner it may be used, care being taken to 
remove every bone. 

22. — Spanish Omelet. 
Chop fine ^ of a pound of fat bacon, put 
with it in a saucepan 2 heaping tablespoon- 
fuls of finely-chopped white onion, i heaping 
tablespoonful of finely-chopped green pepper 
and 3 large, firm tomatoes skinned and cut 
fine. Cook this down to a mush, adding salt 
and pepper as may be necessary. Put a 
spoonful in the centre of the omelet before 
rolling, and pour the remainder round it on 
the platter. 

200 



December^ 

23«— Ragout of Duck. 

(/« the Chafing Dish.) 
Into the blazer put 2 tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, 2 tablespoonfuls of currant jelly and 2 
tablespoonfuls of port. When hot blend a 
little of the mixture with ^ of a teaspoonful 
of dry mustard, j^ of a teaspoonful of salt 
and a dash of paprika and return all to the 
dish. Add i pint of cold duck, cut into dice 
or neat pieces, slip the hot water pan under- 
neath, cover and cook until the meat is hot 
through. Serve with pim olas or olives and 
saltines or toasted wafers. 

24. — Cranberry Sponge. 

Soak ^ of a box of granulated gelatine in 
J^ of a cupful of cold water. Pick over and 
wash I pint of cranberries, put into a sauce- 
pan with % oi 2l cupful of cold water, cover 
closely and cook until the berries burst, then 
rub through a sieve. Measure and add more 
boiling water, if needed, to make i pint of 
thin pulp. Return to the fire and when al- 
most boiling add sufficient granulated sugar 
to make very sweet — this will take 2 cupfuls 
or more, according to the acidity of the fruit. 
201 



December* 

Stir for a moment, add the softened gelatine, 
stir until thoroughly dissolved, then take from 
the fire and set aside. When cold and be- 
ginning to thicken add the whites of 4 eggs 
whipped to a stiff froth and continue whip- 
ping until the mixture is very thick and 
spongy. Turn into a wetted mold and stand 
in a cold place until firm. 

25. — Plum Pudding Croquettes. 

From ^ of a loaf of stale bakers' bread 
trim away all crust and crumble the interior 
very fine. Cover this with 2 scant cupfuls of 
milk and let soak for twenty minutes. In 
the meantime cut up fine ^ of a cupful of 
candied citron, i tablespoonful each of can- 
died orange and lemon peel and ^ of a 
cupful of seeded raisins ; add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of cleaned currants. Turn all in a sieve 
and stand over boiling water to steam for 
fifteen minutes. Put the soaked crumbs in a 
double boiler. When scalding hot stir in i 
whole egg and i yolk beaten with 2 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar and i tablespoonful of 
com-starch, and stir until the mixture thick- 
ens. Take from the fire, add the fruit, a 
202 



December^ 

slight grating of nutmeg and i teaspoonful of 
vanilla, and set aside until cold and quite 
firm. Mold into tiny croquettes, dip each in 
beaten egg, roll in fine dry crumbs and fry 
golden brown in smoking hot fat. Drain on 
paper, and serve with a creamy sauce. 

26.— Beef Gumbo. 
Cut fine I large onion. Trim the fat from 
ij^ pounds of lean beef and put the meat 
through the chopper, then run through the 
tender part of the fat. Put the latter in a 
kettle and place over a slow fire until well 
tried out ; skim out the scraps and drop in 
the onion. Cook slowly until beginning to 
color, then add i raw potato pared and cut 
in thin slices, i pint of fresh tomatoes meas- 
ured after skinning and cutting fine, i pint 
of tender okra cut in thin slices, and the 
meat. Cover and cook slowly for ten min- 
utes, stirring occasionally, then add i pint of 
water, i teaspoonful of salt and ^ of a tea- 
spoonful of pepper or ^ of a green pepper 
chopped, and draw aside where it will cook 
slowly for one hour. Toast a number of 
slices of stale bread, lay them in the bottom 
of a vegetable dish and pour the gumbo over 
203 



Dtccntbtf^ 

powder. Have ready a small saucepan 
partly filled with smoking hot fat. Drop in 
}i teaspoonful as a tester; if it holds its 
shape the batter is all right ; if it spreads and 
absorbs the fat, add a Utde more flour. Cook 
by small spoonfuls — ^two or three at a time ; 
after cooking each lot give the fat a few min- 
utes in which to regain its first heat Drain 
the fritters on soft paper, and keep hot until 
all are cooked. 

31.— Roasted Pork Tenderloins. 
These are liked for breakfast broiled or 
fried, but those who have tried them stuffed 
and roasted think this the best way to pre- 
pare them. They are split in two and a roll 
of savory stuffing laid on the half; this is 
covered by another half and tied like rolled 
beef, then roasted in the same way as chicken. 
In one family the children have dubbed this 
dish ** mock pigeon." 



SOS 



INDEX, 



Almond Charlotte, 

46. 
Angels on Horseback, 

156. 
Apple Cake, 18. 

" Salad, 180. 

«« Slump, 183. 
Apricot Blanc Mange, 

"3. 
«* Roll, 114. 
Asparagus Toast, 77. 



Baked Apple Sago, 194. 
« Beets, 149. 
" Cherry Pudding, 

" Com in Pepper 
Cases, 133. 

" Creamed Cab- 
bage, 140. 

** Indian Pudding, 

193- 
** Pudding, 49. 
« Rice and Cheese, 

180. 
«< Shad Roe, 62. 
** Spanish Onions, 

74. 
** Sweetbreads, 24. 



Baked Tomatoes with 

Eggs, 117. 
Banana Pie, 34. 
" Sponge, 63. 
" Toast, 143. 
Bananas a la West, 3. 
Barbecued Beef, 13a. 
Bean Curry, 73. 

" Timbales, 54. 
Beauregard Eggs, 44. 
Beef Cannelon, 106. 

" Chartreuse, 11 1. 

« Goulasch, 125. 

«< Grenadines, 33. 

" Gumbo, 203. 

*« Kidney Saut6, 196. 
Berry Roly-Poly, 126. 
Blackberry Mush, 113. 
« Steamed Pud- 
ding, 114. 
Blue Fish Salad, 100. 
Boiled Chicken Custard, 

123. 
Bouillon Potatoes, 10 1. 
Braised Lamb's Liver, 
185. 
" Sweetbreads, 8. 
Bretonne Pur6e, 91. 
Broiled Shad Roe, 60. 
Brown Curry, 13. 
Bubble and Squeak, 183. 



207 



Index. 



Calf's Livbr Ragout, Clam and EggScramble, 



131- 

Cake Fritters with Mar- 
malade, 172. 
Cardinal Jelly, 197. 
Carrot Pudding, 140. 
Carrots and Peas, 165. 
Caudle Cup, 153. 
Cauliflower Fritters, 151. 

" with Cheese, 138. 
Caviare Canapes, 62. 
Cheese Crusts, 30. 

« Fingers, iia 

•« Fondue, I. 

<• Gnocchi, 6& 

«< Polenta, 65. 

« Straws, 95. 
Cherries with Rice 

Cream, loi. 
Cherry Bread, 98. 

•« Fritters, 95. 

«< Shortcake, 100. 
Chicken a la Dreux, 174. 

" Croquettes, 109. 

'< Liver Custards, 
64. 

" Livers a la Su- 
preme, 165. 

«• Liver Timbales, 

97- 
«* Stewed with 

Oysters, 158. 
•• Terrapin, 39. 
** with Coooanut, 

Chocolate Meringue Cus- 
tard, no. 

Chops with Onion Pur6e, 
148. 



75- 

" Boudinettes, Ij6. 
Clams a la Bechamel, 93. 

" " Norfolk, 120. 

<< Browned and 
Creamed, 109. 
Cocoanut Cream, 169. 

•* Flummery, 29. 
Cod Baked with Tomato 

Sauce, 195. 
Codfish, Cuban Style, 

168. 
Compote of Cantaloupe, 

124. 
Com Chowder, 137. 

M IDodgers, 204. 

« Fritters, 106. 

« in Tomato Cups, 
121. 

" Oysters, 142. 
Corned Beef Dinner, 42. 
Corn-starch Meringue, 

84. 
Cottage Fruit Pudding, 

" Pie, 5. 
Cracker and Cheese 

Pudding, 146. 
Cranberry Roly-Poly, 
184. 
« Sponge, 201. 
Crab Meat on Toast, 15& 
Creamed Codfish, 27. 

•« Sweetbreads, 167. 
Cream of Asparagus 
Soup, 85. 
« of Celery Soup, 
«7- 



208 



Index. 



Cream of Chicken Liver 
and Lima Beans, 
129. 
Creole Clams, 55. 
<« Kedgeree, il. 
« Pilafif, 191. 
" Rice, 176. 
Crown of Pork, 36. 
Crusts with Foie Gras, 38. 
Cucumber a la Poulette, 
134, 
" Fritters, 105. 
« Jelly Salad, 
III. 
Cupped Hash, 81. 
Curried Apples, 148. 
«< Macaroni, 38. 
« Potatoes, 36. 
•* Salmon, 40. 

Date Pudding, 64. 
« Roly-Poly, 143. 
Delicious Lemon Cus- 
tard, 68. 
Delmonico Potatoes, 31. 
Deviled Cheese, 48. 
« Corned Beef, 58. 
•« Crabs, 145. 
«• Salmon, 175. 
« Smoked Hali- 
but, 199. 
« Toast, 10. 
« Tomatoes, 103. 
« Turkey Legs, 
185. 
Dried Rusk, 61. 
Duchesse Toast, 96. 
Dutched Red Cabbage, 
146. 



Egg Cutlets, 60. 

« Timbales, 45. 

«< Plant au Gratin, 
112. 
Eggs Baked with Cheese, 

59. 
<* in Bread Sauce, 

160. 
« in Jelly, 23. 
« in Tomato Cases, 

126. 



Fairy Pudding, 177. 
Farcied Tomatoes, 135. 
Farina Balls, 41. 
Fig Suet Pudding, 163. 
Fillets of Chicken, 142. 
Fish Curry, 62. 

« Cutlets, 200. 

" Scallop, 45. 
Flemish Carrots, 32. 
Foie Gras with Truf- 

fles, 166. 
Franconia Potatoes, 94. 
French Giblet Stew, 92. 
French Recipe for Frit- 
ters, 16. 
Friar's Omelet, 178. 
Fricadelles, 4. 
Fried Apple Sauce, 23. 

•• Calf s Brains, 13. 

<* Cucumbers, 118. 

•• Egg Plant, 113, 

*• Scallops, 139. 

*• Smelts, 14. 

« Soft Clams, 143. 
Frog Legs in Casserole, 

129. 



909 



Index. 



Frozen Tomato Salad, Kentucky Potatoes, 71 

123. 
Fruit Dumplings, lai. 
" Pinwheels, 25. 



Genoa Ramakins, 34. 
German Coffee Cake, 65. 
" Potato Dump- 
lings, 204. 
Giblets a la Supreme, 

144. 
Green Com Timbales, 
105. 
•« Pea Timbales, 86. 

Hamburg Steak "with 
Peppers, 180. 

Ham Balls, 82. 
** Canapes, 90. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes, 
182. 

Hash with Green Pep- 
pers, 184. 

Hot Fruit Shortcakes, 
166. 
" Gruel, 14. 
" Potato Salad, 179. 

Hungarian Kidney, 186. 

Indian Meal Mush, 12. 
Irish Fritters, 154. 

Jam Toast, 27. 

{aune Mange, 112. 
ellied Ham Salad, 168. 

Kalecanon, 4. 
Kentish Toast, 157. 



Lamb a la Creole, 198. 
" and Tomato Stew, 

23- 
Little Bread Puddings, 

«* Meat Pies, 59. 
" Puff Puddings, 6. 
Liver and Bacon, 16. 

« Patties, 58. 
Lobster a TAmericaine, 
56. 
« Chops, 22. 
" Patties, 78. 
" Pillau, 88. 
Lyonnaise Carrots, 149. 

Macaroni Croquettes, 

Macaroni Timbales, 174. 
«« Timbale with 
Chicken Fill- 
ing, 154. 

Macaroon Pudding, 191. 

Marrow Toast, 98. 

Marshmallow Pudding, 

30- 
Maryland Chicken, 76. 
Meat and Macaroni, 44. 

« Puffs, 25. 

" Turn-overs, 9. 
Minced Kidneys, 162. 
Mixed Meat Salad, 194. 
Mock Pate de Foie Gras, 
170. 

" Terrapin, 122. 

«« Tomatoes on Let- 
tuce, 119. 



210 



Index. 



Molded Fig Pudding, 

Mulberry Shortcake, 1 19. 

NxsssLRODs Pudding, 

122. 
Nun's Toast, 49. 
Nut and Cream Cheese 
Salad, 8. 
" and Potato Cro- 
quettes, 164. 
« Custard, 162. 

Okra and Corn Fric- 
assee, 137. 

Orange and Cocoanut 
Pudding, 47. 

Oyster Toast, 192. 
« Toddle, 21. 

Pan Dowdy, 188. 
Panned Oysters in the 

Chafing-Dish, 175. 
Parsnip Fritters, 51. 
Peach Blanc Mange, 128. 

" Cobbler, 133. 

« Delight, 146. 

« Flummery, 130. 

•* Mousse, 127. 

** Pudding, 125. 

« Roll, 148. 

•« Sago, 144. 

«< Shortcake, 131. 

** Tapioca, 135. 
Pea Pudding, 78. 
Peas in Turnip Cups, 189. 
Philadelphia Potatoes, 

99. 
M Salad, 19. 



Pigs in Blankets, 55. 

Pine Nut Apple Char- 
lotte, 154. 

Plum Pudding Cro- 
quettes, 202. 

Poached Eggs a la Cre- 
ole, 184. 

Poor Man's Pie, 159. 

Pork Pie, 20. 

Potato Cherry Pudding, 

94. 
" Chowder, 79, 
•* Klosse, 117. 
« Nests, 198. 
« Pancakes, 52. 
" Quenelles, 134. 
Potatoes Casserole, Tur- 
key Filling, 69. 
« Gruyere, 35. 
« Hashed in 
Cream, 104. 
Potted Fish, 26. 
" Poultry Livers, 
82. 
Princess Pudding with 

Cherries, 91. 
Prune Pudding, 28. 
« Snowballs, I. 
Pumpkin Soup, 172. 
Pur6e of Artichokes, 102. 
*( of Rice, 103. 



Ragout of Duck, aoi. 
Ramakins, 3. 
Raspberry Foam, 104. 
Relichen, 192. 
Rhode Island Chowder, 
70. 



211 



Index. 



Rhubarb and Tapioca 
Pudding, 57. 
«« Charlotte, 67. 
" Fool, 52. 
Rice and Cheese Fritters, 
205. 
« and Cheese Tim- 
bales, 21. 
« and Sausages, 157. 
«« Boulettes, 37. 
«« Cups, 73. 
<« Flour Blanc Mange, 

81. 
« Mold with Maple 

Sugar, 176. 
'« Pillau, 96. 
« Salad, 46. 
« Souffle, 75. 
" Sponge, 47. 
«« with Apples, 155. 
*• with Dates, 182. 
" with Figs, 58. 
« with Peaches, 138. 
Risotto, 53. 

Roasted Pork Tender- 
loins, 206. 
Roast Mutton, Breton 
Style, 186. 
« Mutton, Marinated, 

161. 
« Saddle of Venison, 9. 

Salmon Croquettes, 
190. 

Salt Cod Salad, 28. 

Saratoga Onions, 55. 

Ssurdines with Rice, 42. 

Sausages and Fried Ap- 
ples, 197. 



Scalloped Chicken, 20. 
« White Tur- 
nips, 32. 
Scallops en Brochette, 

169. 
Scotch Woodcock, 31. 
Shepherd's Pie, 106. 
Shrimp Chowder, 141. 
Shrimps a la Creole, 94. 
*< a la Newburg, 80. 
Slappers, 173. 
Smothered Cucumbers, 
108. 
« Round Steak, 
50. 
Southerland Pudding, la 
Southern Fried Chicken, 

89. 
Spaghetti with Toast 

Points, 71. 
Spanish Croquettes, 187. 

" Omelet, 200. 
Spiced Chicken Liver or 
Giblets, 108. 
« Mutton, 42. 
Spinach Souffle, 35. 
Squabs Parisienne, 79. 
Steak with Bananas, 56. 
" with Onions, 164.. 
« with Oysters, 141. 
Steamed Berry Roll, 116 

" Fruit Roll, 83. 
Stewed Figs, 12. 
Strawberries with 

Blanched Cream, 87. 
Strawberry Dauphines, 
80. 
" Pudding, 97. 
" Sago, 93, 



212 



Index. 



Strawberry Salad, 92. 
Stufifed Cucumbers, 132. 

*« Egg Salad, 83. 

" Shoulder of Mut- 
ton, 150. 

« Tomatoes, 128. 
Surprise Potatoes, 85. 
Sweetbreads with 

Oranges, 43. 
Sweet Potato Boulettes, 

«« « Croquettes, 

150. 

TiMBALE OF Lamb, 7. 

Tipsy Pudding, 88. 

Toad-in-the-Hole, 127. 

Toasted Smoked Hali- 
but, 10. 

Tomato Croquettes, i8l. 
" Fricassee, 147. 
" Fritters, 66. 
" Timbales, 116. 
*• Toast, 39. 



Turkish Chicken, 52. 

" Macaroni, 190. 
Turnip Croquettes, 205. 

Veal Cutlets in 
Cheese Bat- 
ter, 15. 
« Kidney Omelet, 4 1 . 
" " Stew, 24. 
" Loaf, 107. 
" Terrapin, 7. 
Vegetable Cones, 161. 
" Curry, 71. 
« Salad a la 
Mignonette, 2. 
Venetian Fritters, 189. 

Waffles, 196. 
Waldorf Salad, 26. 
Walnut Stew, 178. 
Welsh Rarebit, 5. 
White Curry, 65. 
" Pudding with 
Strawberries, 9a 



313 



