
Book ^^Ff 
GoipghtN" 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 



E S r A B L I S H E J) IHl 1 



THE 



Western Musical Conservatory 

Emporia, Kansas 



A Thorough Training School for 
Music and Elocution Students 



The School occupies a building in which the upper floors are designed for its ex- 
clusive use, with well arranged teaching, class and practice rooms 
and recital hall. Students can enterat any time. 

If you expect to study Music, in any of its branches, send for circular and full in- 
formation, to 

R. S. CHASE, Emporia, Kansas 



Our Qoods 
Keep Step 
With Progress 

Every up-to-date food is 
here, provided it is whole- 
some. Every modern 
method for giving our cus- 
tomers promptness and 
best service is used. We 
keep in close toucli with 
end-of-the-century ideas. 
We don't stop at expense, if we can make our service better. 

JONES & STONE 




TELEPHONE 32 



THE RELIABLE GROCERS 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK HOOK 



Buy Your Goods Here and Be Satisfied. Your Money Back If Not As Represented 



H. A. TIBBALS 
Jeweler and Optician 



526 Commercial Street 



Emporia, Kansas 




513-515-517 Commercial Street 
EmiDorIa, K.ansas 



...All Kinds of Goods at Popular Prices... 

Receipt for An Excellent Photograph 

Put on your hat, go down Commercial Street until 
you come to my studio, come in, I will tell you the 
rest. 



White Show Case 



LOOMIS, Photographer 



MORE DELICIOUS 

Than Cakes, Pies, Puddings, Etc., is our non-comparable Honeymoon Chocolates 



523 Commercial &>treet 



A. C. Ireland 



THE MIT-WAY NEWSTAND 

will supply you with the daily papers, the latest periodicals, good cigars and tine 
bonbons. Subscriptions taken for all magazines 

IVI FR S. MAUDE ST-OCK \A/ E I_ I_ 



PRESBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 



"D. D. Williams & Company" 

on a packagre of jewelry or cut a:lass carries as much of a yuar-. 

antee as to quality and style, as ''Sterlinji" stamped on 

a piece of silver, carries as to its genuineness. 

Watches, Clocks, Jewelry, Cut Glass and Choice 
Hand Painted China. Trustworthy Repair Work 

D. D. Williams & Company 



Recipe for Happiness 

For Wall Paper, Paints, Window Shades, Stationery and Books, 

go to 

ECKDALL & J^lcCARTY'S 




Rice's Celebrated Seeds are for 
sale by mercKarvts every^vhere 



Jerome B. Rice Seed 
Company 

Cambridge, N- Y. 



Presbyterian Cook Book 




PUBLISHED BY 

The Aid Society of the First Presbyterian Church 

EMPORIA, KANSAS 



LIBRARY of CONGRESS 
Two Copies Received 

OCT 12 1906 
^Copyn^t^Emy ^ 

clXss a xxcno. 

COPY B. 



< 



> 



C i** 



Copyrighted by 

The Aid Society of the First Presbyterian Church 

Emporia, Kansas 




First Presbyterian Church. Emporia. Kansas 



TO THOSE PLUCKY HOUSEWIVES 
Who master their work instead of allowing 
it to master them, this book is dedicated by 
the Women of the First Presbyterian church 
of Emporia^ Kansas :::::::: 



Preface 



In compiling this book the committee has tried to profit 
by the kindly criticisms of the previous cook books. It has 
labored to maintain the high standard of the first books, and 
wherever possible to surpass them. In asking the public for the 
same generous patronage they have accorded us in the past, we 
feel we are giving in return a book that will make the culinary 
way clear to the new housekeeper, and solve many perplexing 
questions for the cook of more experience. 

We wish to thank our friends for their generosity in sup- 
plying the hundreds of recipes with which the book is filled. 
Many, just as good have been reluctantly discarded, because they 
were duplicates. Some have been lost, as they were written in 
pencil, or on both sides of the paper. Some have been unsigned 
and could not be credited. But in every case we have tried to 
be as just as our friends were generous. 

The business public has been courteous and generous to us 
in the way of advertising and we are very grateful. 

We recommend our book to you, for your sake that you may 
eat and be filled, and for our sake that God maj^ prosper in His 
work. 



PRESS OF 

THE GAZETTE 

EMPORIA. KANSAS 



PRESBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 



& 



FAULTLESS 



^SlftRGH'S 

FOR 5HIRTS,CdLLAR5,CUrF5,AnD FiriLLlMLH. 



W. R. Irwin, Druggist 



DEALKK IN 



Drugs and Medicine, Stationery, Ko= 

daks and Photo Suppliesof 

All Kinds 

507 Commercial Street 
DR. JOHN M. PARRINGTON 

GEN^ERAIL. PRACTICE OF 

ME Die I ^TE 



536 OOMMX:ROIA.r. STREET 



EMPORIA, KANSAS 



(Hl^afi. (g. ^alb^rg, Wl|0bsak-ia?tatl JlortBt 

Cut Flotvem. Design Kork and Bedding Plants 



Phone 630 



Greer House on Union Street and South Avenue 



Office Phone 1035 Residence Phone 1056 

r>. L. MORGAN. M. D. 



(h'er Citizens Xational Bank 



EMPORIA, KANSAS 



PKESIJYTERIAN COOKBOOK 




SANITAS Hfc 

FOR WALLS 

Sanitas is a serviceable 
Avail covering which is 
made on a cloth founda- 
tion and printed in oil 
colors. It is a substitute 
for wall paper, and is 
waterproof, dirt proof and vermin proof. 

Sanitas can be had in plain tints, good printed patterns, 
burlap effects and glazes. It is applied to a wall like paper. It 
tildes cracks and plaster stains. Its colors do not fade. Its 
surface does not scale. Its foundation does not tear. A damp 
cloth cleans it. It is a satisfactory and lasting material, suit- 
able for any room of any home. 

MP^RITAS is a table oil cloth that is guaranteed. It'* de- 
signs are good, its colors excellent, its surface impervious to 
germs Use MERITAS on your kitchen and pantry shelves and 
tables 

Standard Table Oil Cloth Company 



Send for SampU* 



325 Broadway, NEW YORK 



Send for Circulars 



Soups and Cocktails 



"For soup is but the first of those delights which go to make 
the coming bill of fare." 

GRAPE FRUIT COCKTAIL. 

Allow one large grape fruit for four guests. Remove the 
pulp and mix with it the pulp of three oranges, one banana 
diced, four figs cut in bits, one cup of dessert raisins seeded, and 
a half cup of Maraschino cherries. Sweeten with powdered 
sugar to taste and add two tablespoons syrup from thee cher- 
ries. Serve very cold in lemonade cups with orange spoons. — 
Randolph Confection Company, St. Louis. 

ORANGE COCKTAIL. 

Cut orange pulp into small bits. Add finely chopped dates, 
figs and squeeze in enough orange juice to cover. If not suf- 
ficiently tart, add a little lemon juice. Serve ice cold in punch 
glasses. — Randolph Confection Company. 

CLAM COCKTAILS. 

Put into a small glass six clams, two drops tabasco sauce, 
one tablespoon lemon juice, two tablespoons tomato catsup, salt 
to taste. Mix thoroughly and serve ice cold. — Mrs. J. M. Tan- 
ner. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

For each person allow the strained juice of one-half lemon, 
one-half teaspoon of vinegar, eight drops of tabasco sauce, one- 
half teaspoon of horseradish, one-half teaspoon of tomato cat- 
sup, add eight small blue points. Let stand ten minutes and 
serve in a tall glass.— Mrs. D. D. Williams. 

PRUNE COCKTAIL. 

Cook choice prunes just enough to remove the stones easily. 
Sweeten slightly while cooking. Chill thoroughly and chop into 



14 PKKSBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 

small pieces. To the juice add orange and lemon juice to taste. 
Maraschino cherries and their liquid is an improvement. All 
fruit cocktails are best packed in a cream mold in ic€ and salt 
several hours before using. — Mrs. James Tanner. 



To make nutritious, healthful and palatable soups, with flav- 
ors properly blended, requires study and practice. The best base 
for soups is lean uncooked meat, usually a pound of meat to a 
quart of water, to which may be added chick-en, turkey, beef or 
mutton bones, well broken up; a mixture of beef, mutton and 
veal, with a bit of ham bone, all cut up fine, makes a higher flav- 
ored soup than any single meat; the legs of all meats are rich 
in gelatine, an important constituent of soup. For white soup 
use veal or fowls instead of beef. 

Soups which make the principal part of a meal should be 
richer than those which simply precede a heavier course of meat 
and so forth. When remnants of cooked meats are used, chop 
fine, crush the bones, add a ham bone or a bit of ham, and all 
ends of roasts and fatty parts; make the day previous to use. 
Strain and set away over night, skim off the fat and it is ready to 
heat and serve. 

In using fresh meat, put the pieces as cut, into the required 
quantity of cold water, and let stand until the juices of the meat 
begin to color it; then put on to boil slowly. In this way the 
juices of the meat are readily drawn out. The soup is done when 
the meat is juiceless. Seasonings for soups may be varied to suit 
the taste. The simpliest may have only pepper and salt, while 
the richest may have a little of every savor so well blended that 
no one is conspicious. No measure can be given, because the 
good soup maker must be a skillful taster. For brown soups 
the dark spices may be used; for white, mace, aromatic seeds, 
cream and curry. Many herbs, either fresh or powdered, and 
all the choice catsups and sauces, are used as seasoning. 

Rice, sago, barley, vermicelli, macaroni and so forth, are de- 
sirable additions to meat soups. The first three are used in pro- 
portions of half a teacup to three quarts of soup, washed and 
soaked. Rice requires half to three-quarters of an hour boiling 
in the soup; sago cooks in fifteen minutes; barley should be 
soaked over night or for several hours; boil by itself in a little 
water till tender; add to the soup just before serving. Vermi- 



PKESBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 15 

celH and macaroni should be broken up small and washed thor- 
oughly. Boil in the soup half an hour. 

If a thickened soup without vegetables is wanted, wheat flour, 
corn starch or arrowroot is used in the proportion of one heap- 
ing tablespoon of flour, two round teaspoons of corn starch, or 
two scant teaspoons of arrowroot, to a quart of soup. Mix with 
a little water until smooth,, and add when soup is nearly done. 

For coloring and flavoring soups use caramel, browned flour, 
onio'ns fried brown, meat with cloves in it or browned with 
butter. Poached eggs are an excellent addition to some soups. 
They should be added just before serving, one to each person. 
Always use cold water in making soups. Skim well, especially 
during the first hour. To help the scum rise, pour in a little 
cold water now and then, and as the soup reaches the bailing 
point, skim it ofT. Soup should be simmered very gently till it 
is done, and should never be kept in metal vessels while cool- 
ing. 

BOUILLON. 

Five pounds of clear beef cut from lower part of round, five 
quarts of cold water; let come to boil slowly. Skim carefully and 
set where it will keep just at the boiling point eight or ten hours. 
Skim and set away to cool. In the morning skim off the fat and 
turn the soup back into the kettle, being careful not to let the 
sediment pass off into the soup. Put in one onion, one stalk cel- 
ery, two leaves sage, two bay leaves, twelve pepper .corns, six 
cloves. Boil gently from ten to twenty minutes. Salt and pep- 
per to taste, then strain through a cloth. — Mrs. Keebler. 

CLAM SOUP. 

Boil until well done four large sliced potatoes in one and a 
half quarts of water; mash and strain through sieve. Take one 
can of good clams, pour off the juice and chop the clams fine; 
add the juice and chopped clams to the rest of the soup and cook 
slowly about fifteen minutes. Strain through a sieve again, salt 
•and butter to taste and thicken with a little flour, if not thick 
enough. Add one-half cup of warm cream or one cup of warm 
milk just before serving. — Mrs. William B. Irwin. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Pour one pint of cold water over a quart of oysters, drain 



16 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

through a colander into the soup kettle; when it boils skim. Add 
pepper and salt, a heaping tablespoon of butt-er, pour in one 
quart of hot milk. When all comes to a boil drop in the oysters, 
boil up once and serve quickly. — Mrs. R. J. Edwards. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

One cup of rice to one quart of cold water; let come to boil, 
then add one cup finely chopped cabbage, and one-half cup 
onion and cook clowly until nearly done. Take two large po- 
tatoes, sliced thin, and put in to cook until soft; now add salt, 
pepper, a little butter and thin it down with milk. — Mrs. F. W. 
Protheroe. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

Boil a large chicken till the meat falls to pieces, then add a 
little piece of onion, bay leaf, pinch of thyme, salt, pepper; cook 
a little longer and strain; have ready a boiling milk sauce made 
of a tablespoon flour, one tablespoon butter, rubbed together. 
Add this to one pint boiling milk, stirring till it thickens. Add 
this, boiling, to hot chicken broth and cook one minute. — Mrs. 
D. F. Longenecker. 

TOMATO SOUP WITHOUT MEAT. 

One quart of tomatoes, one quart of water, one quart of milk. 
Butter, salt and pepper to taste. Cook the tomatoes thoroughly 
in the water, leave the milk scalding, (over water to prevent 
scorching.) When the tomatoes are done add a large teaspoon- 
ful of soda, which will cause a violent eflfervescence. It is best 
to set the vessel in a pan before adding it to prevent waste. 
When the eflfervescence has ceased, add the milk and seasoning. 
When it is possible, it is best to use more milk than water, and 
cream instead of butter. The soup is eaten with crackers. A 
spoonful of whipped cream added to each cup just before serv- 
ing is an improvement.^Mrs. Dudley. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Put a can of tomatoes with a slice of onion and put on to 
cook; put a quart of milk in a double boiler. When hot, add 
two tablespoons of butter and three of flour rubbed together; 
cook until smooth and thick, salt and pepper to taste. Strain 
the tomatoes, add half teaspoon soda, stir, then add the milk. 
Serve at once. — Mrs. Barber. 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 17 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP. 

Cook celery to a pulp in boiling water; rub through sieve. 
Take one cup celery pulp to three of milk, butter size of an egg, 
two tablespoons flour. Season to taste. — Blanche B. Stevenson. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP. 

Take several stalks of celery and cut them up in small pieces 
with a small onionj and stew in water until tender, then drain. 
Add milk to the water, put on the stove and add butter, cooked 
tapioca, a little flour, salt and pepper and nutmeg, and let boil, 
and just before serving beat the yolk of an egg and stir in. — 
Julia E. Davis. 

BEAN AND TOMATO SOUP. 

Soak one pint of navy beans over night. Boil very tender 
in three quarts of water. Rub through a sieve. Return to the 
kettle with a pint or more of tomato pulp. Season with salt, pep- 
per, and butter the size of a large walnut. If soup seems too 
thin rub one tablespoon flour with butter. Will serve eight or 
ten. — Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 

BEAN SOUP. 

Soak one pint of navy beans over night; drain and add two 
quarts of cold water, one-fourth teaspoon soda, parboil twenty 
minutes; drain. Four quarts of hot water, one-half pound fresh 
pork. Season with salt and pepper. Boil three hours. Press 
through a colander and serve. — Mrs. R. J. Edwards, 

PEA SOUP. 

Soak two cups of dry peas for ten hours. Add three quarts 
of cold water, let all boil for three hours, then add one quart of 
milk, one cup of stock, one tablespoon of salt, one teaspoonful 
of celery salt, one teaspoon of white pepper, and a tablespoon of 
butter and three tablespoons of flour which have been creamed 
together. Let boil for ten minutes. It is nicer if the boiled peas 
are passed through a colander. — Hannah M. Edwards. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Cut the tops from about thirty heads of asparagus and boil 
the rest; when tender, rub through a sieve, adding a little salt; 
warm three p;.nts of sweet milk (or soup stock) add a lump of 



18 PRESBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 

butter size of a large egg and a dessert spoon flour mixed to- 
gether. To this add the pulp. Boil slowly a quarter of an hour. 
Just before serving soup, add the asparagus tops which have 
been separately boiled in water. — Mrs. R. W. Jeremy. 

PEA PUREE. 

One large cup of dried or split peas, washed and soaked over 
night in plenty of cold water. In the morning boil in two quarts 
of cold water for three hours, cooking slowly and adding water 
while cooking, so as to have one and one-half quarts when done; 
rub through a sieve, making perfectly smooth, then return to 
kettle, season with salt and pepper and two tablespoons of butter 
and one tablespoon of flour stirred until smooth, with a little 
cold water and one tablespoon of sugar. Add one-half cup of 
rich cream or one cup of milk just before serving. Serve with 
croutons or dices of fried bread. — Mrs. William B. Irwin. 

CORN SOUP. 

One can of corn, one cup of water. Cook together twenty- 
five minutes, then strain through a coarse sieve to remove the 
skin from the kernels. Put back on the stove with three and 
one-half cups of milk, one tablespoon of butter rubbed into two 
tablespoons of flour and made into a paste with one-half cup of 
cream. Season with one tablespoon of salt, one-half teaspoon 
of pepper, one teaspoon of sugar. Cook fifteen minutes, stirring 
well to keep it from scorching. When serving add to each por- 
tion a tablespoon of whipped cream, stirring it down into the 
soup. — Mrs. G. W. Newman, Mrs. F. C. Newman. 

SOUR CREAM SOUP. 

Three medium sized potatoes, yolk of one egg, half cup flour, 
one quart sour cream, salt, pepper. Pare and dice the potatoes, 
cover with water and cook thoroughly. Sprinkle a little salt in 
the flour and stir into the salted flour the yolk of an egg to make 
the noodles. When the potatoes are well done, put in the noodles 
and let them cook a minute. Then pour in the sour cream, which 
must be all cream, as sour milk will keep the soup from being 
smooth. Let this boil a little; salt and pepper, then it is ready 
for serving. Standing will not hurt it and it can be warmed 
over. This will serve six or eight. There should always be a 
little more cream than water when you pour in the cream. — 
Mrs. Jonas Eckdal, Jr. 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 19 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Buy a marrowbone, the hind leg is best, but do not buy the 
knuckle — all the good is below. Do not let the butcher cut any 
of the meat off, or cut it with a cleaver. Saw it through twice 
is sufficient. Wash it well and put on in cold water. Several 
quarts will be needed. Let it simmer two or three hours. When 
the meat is becoming tender, add salt, celery seed or leaves, 
tobasco pepper pod, a bay leaf, a sprig of parsley. Chop fine 
two good-sized potatoes, two onions and add also a pint of to- 
mato pulp, one-half cup of pearl barley. One-half hour before 
serving thicken with one tablespoon of flour rubbed smooth in 
one-half pint of cold water-, if the barley has not been sufficient. 
A handful of dried ochra is a great improvement. The soup 
should be well skimmed before the salt and spices go in, and 
must cook afterwards until the vegetables are tender. — Mrs. J. 
M. Tanner. 

NOODLES, CROUTONS OR CARAMEL FOR SOUP. 

Noodles — Beat one egg light; add a pinch of salt and flour 
enough to make a stiff dough; roll out in a very thin sheet, dredge 
with flour to keep from sticking, then roll up tightly. Begin at 
one end and shave down fine; shake out the strips and drop into 
the boiling soup. 

Croutons— Take slices of stale bread, cut in small squares, 
throw in hot lard and fry till brown, drain and put in the tureen 
before serving. 

Caramel — Put one teacup sugar and two teaspoons water in a 
saucepan over the fire. Stir constantly till it is a dark color, 
then add a half teacup water and a pinch of salt. Let boil a few 
minutes, take off fire, and when cold bottle.— Mrs. D. D. Wil- 
liams. 

EGG BALLS FOR SOUP. 

Rub the yolks of two hard boiled eggs to a smooth paste 
with a very little butter, pepper and salt. Add to this one raw 
egg well beaten, and enough flour to hold paste together. Make 
into small balls with floured hands. Set away in a cool place 
until just before serving the soup, put in and boil one mrnut*. — 
Mrs. R. W. Jeremy. 



20 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 



I Gold Medall 




Awarded 

Gold Medal 

St. Louis 

WORLD'S 
FAIR 

1904 



Sold by all up^-to^date 
Retailers 



For Sale at Emporia, Kan^ ^ 

sas, by ^ 

MRS. CARL I 

BALLWEQ i 



Rosenthal = SIoan 

Millinery Company 



^ 



* 



S nakers ST. LOUIS | 



Oysters 



"Not all in books their criticisms waste, 
The genius of a dish some justly taste." 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

One quart oysters and one pint of cream. Put the cream on 
the fire in a doubl-e boiler, mix a generous tablespoon of flour 
with a little cold milk, and stir into the cream while it is boil- 
ing. Season with salt and a little cayenne pepper. Let the 
oysters come to a boil in their own liquor, drain the oysters and 
turn them into the cream mixture. Have ready square pieces of 
toast well buttered and turn the mixture over them. Serve at 
once. These oysters may be served in shells or timbales. — Mrs. 
E. M. Forde. 

OYSTERS ON TOAST. 

Wipe sufficient oysters closely to cover the buttered and 
toasted bread. Lay them on the slices, season with salt, pepper 
and a bit of butter. Put into a very hot oven until the edges of 
the oysters curl. Have prepared a rich cream sauce, pour over 
them and serve steaming. — Mrs. L. A. Stocking. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Oysters for this purpose must be large and fine. Wipe dry 
and dip in beaten egg that has been highly seasoned with salt 
and paprika. Roll in cracker meal. Cover the bottom of a wire 
basket with the prepared oysters and fry in boiling fat. Serve 
at once. Some cooks roll the oysters in cracker meal before the 
egg, and again in the meal. That makes a little heavier crust. — 
Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

Heat one quart of cream to the boiling point. Smooth two 
large tablespoons flour with a little milk, and a small cup of but- 
ter, with salt and pepp-r to taste, and stir in boiling cream and 



22 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

cook till quite thick, being careful not to scorch. Have ready one 
quart of oysters cooked in their own liquor only until they begin 
to curl. Add to the thickened cream, and cook very little more. 
Serve while hot in timbaks made of a very short pie crust bak- 
ed in gem pans, or with fresh wafers. — Mrs. Lucas. 

BAKED OYSTERS. 

Butter a pan and cover the bottom with medium sized oysters. 
Lay strips of breakfast bacon on top and bake in a medium oven, 
turning the bacon over as it browns. When the bacon is brown 
and crisp, place oysters on squares of toast, season with salt and 
pepper and the liquor in the pan and garnish with bacon. These 
should be baked in the top of the oven so that the bacon will 
cook faster than the oysters. — Mrs. E. M. Forde. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Crust — One cup flour, one small pinch salt, two level table- 
spoons butter. Work butter, flour and salt together. Then moisten 
with ice water, a few drops at a time. Keep the dough stiff. Roll 
very thin, put in individual patty pans, then fill with the filling, 
put top crust on and bake. 

Filling — One pint milk, two tablespoons of butter, one table- 
spoon of flour, salt and pepper to taste. Rub flour and butter to- 
gether, moisten with water, add the milk and cook in a double 
boiler. Boil oysters in their liquor until edges curl, skim into 
the cream dressing, then fill patties. Cove oysters can be sub- 
stituted for fresh ones. — Mrs. B. R. Reiber. 

BREAD PATTIES. 

Cut slices of bread, then with a good sized biscuit cutter cut 
from them rounds. With a smaller cutter take the centers of 
two-thirds of the rounds. Dip a ring in white of egg, place it 
on solid ring, then on this another ring which completes one 
patty. Toast the patties quickly in a hot oven and when brown 
fill with creamed oysters, creamed chicken or peas. — Mrs. R. 
H. Jaquith. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

One pint, or thirty oysters, three cups crumbs, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, cayenne, three tablespoons butter, one-fourth cub oys- 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 23 

ter juice. Prepare the oysters by pouring cold water over them in 
a colander. Remove pieces of shell. Strain the juice through a 
cloth. Season the crumbs and add them to the melted butter. 
Place one-fourth the crumbs in the bottom of a buttered baking 
dish, then one-half of the oysters, then one-fourth of the crumbs, 
the rest of the oysters, the oyster liquor, and finally the rem.ain- 
der of the crumbs. More seasoning may be added if desired. 
Bake in a moderate oven thirty to forty minutes. — Elizabeth 
Frances Greene, Drexel Institute, Philadelphia. 

OYSTER CELERY. 

Chop one bunch of celery, cover w^ith water, cook half an hour. 
Drain and press; add to celery water one pint of milk. When 
hot stir in one tablespoon butter and one of flour rubbed together. 
Salt and pepper to taste. Add twelve oysters, let boil five min- 
utes. Serve hot. — Mrs. Barber. 

PIGS IN BLANKET. 

Soak nice strips of bacon in milk one-half hour, drain, then 
dredge with flour. Roll one large oyster or several small ones 
in egg, then in cracker meal, then roll one strip of bacon around 
it and fasten together with a small wooden toothpick. With a 
very little butter in spider, fry until brown. Serve as course 
next to meat with sweet potato croquettes and anything else de- 
sirable. — Mrs. William B. Irwin. 



24 PRESBYTEKIANCOOKBOOK 

..No Household is Complete Without It. 

BEST FOR ^""''W^'^'^ HOUSEHOLD 



KUPS^eSTARCH 



LAUNDRY /^^-TITltVV.^v USE 

For Shirtwaists, Shirts, Collars and Fine Linen 

Accept No Other from Your Grocer 



Scudder's Maple Sap 

Highest Standard for 

Purity, Oiiality, Flavor 

Paint Your Homes With 

RUBBER PAINT 

The Best Pa.int in the World 



THE only paint which is absolutely adapted for all exterior and interior pur- 
poses. Made in pure white and the most stylish shades and tints. 

We Are Headquarters 

everything pertaining to Mixed Paints, Buggy Paint, Burn Paint, Varnish 
Stains, White Lead and the celebrated 

Hygienic Kalsomine 

made in pure white and tints. Write for prices, Sample cards, terms, etc., etc. 

Haynes Brothers 

618=620-622 Commercial Street EMPOEIA, KANSAS 



Fish 



FISH. 

"Salt mackerel and other small fish should be broiled. Small 
pan fish and steaks of large white dry fish are good fried. Fresh 
salmon, mackerel, and blue fish are oily fish and should not be 
fried. Boil oily fish if large — broil them if small. Cod, haddock, 
blue fish, small salmon, bass and shad, may be stuffed and bak- 
ed whole. Serve fish with bread and potatoes and cucumbers 
if in season. Cream and tgg sauces, lobster, oyster, shrimp, tar- 
tar and piquant sauces are served with boiled fish. Small fish 
for boiling may be put into boiling salted water; large fish, or 
large pieces of fish, should be put over the fire in cold water."— 
Miss Ella DeCamp. 

FISH TURBOT. 

Tie a fish in a cloth and boil in water containing one-half 
teaspoon salt. When done pick to pieces. Put on stove one pint 
new milk, three slices onion, one sprig parsley, two or three tea- 
spoons butter, one egg, one-half teaspoon salt, two or three 
spoons flour. Put on stove and stir tmtil it creams. Then put 
it through a sieve; put in layers fish and sauce until you have 
used a pint of fish. Put bread crumbs on top, then bake thirty 
minutes. — Jennie Kingan. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

Two pounds fresh fish, three medium sized potatoes and one 
onion sliced. Wash two ounces salt pork and chop fine. Put the 
pork in frying pan, and when hot add the onion. Smother lightly 
three sprigs each thyme, parsley and bay leaves chopped fine. 
One clove of garlic is very fine. Cayenne or black pepper to 
taste. Let this simmer ten minutes longer. Pour over this 
one quart boiling water, add fish, potatoes, one-half can tomatot s. 
Season to taste, cover the pan and let simmer for one-half hour. 
Add one-half cup milk if desired. Place oyst-er crackers in a 
bowl, pour chowder over and serve hot. — Mrs. T. G. Wibley. 



26 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

BAKED FISH. 

Make about four gashes on each side, and put in pieces of 
breakfast bacon. Rub with butter all over and dust with flour. 
Place in a pan and pour cup of boiling water, one teaspoon of 
salt, one tabl-espoon of vinegar. Bake forty minutes, basting 
often, adding more water if needed. Wli-en done remove fish and 
make sauce in same pan, using flour, milk and a little butter. 
Add one tablespoon choppede parsley, dash of celery salt and 
paprika. Pour sauce over fish on the platter and serve. — Mrs. 
John A. Moore. 

BOILED SALMON. 

Place a can of salmon in boiling water, and let it boil for 
twenty minutes. Take salmon from can and serve with sauce. 

Sauce for Salmon — Beat one tablespoon of butter and one 
teaspoon of flour until smooth. Have one cup of milk heated, 
add flour and butter. Let boil until it thickens, add salt, pep- 
per. Serve at once. — Mrs. E. M. Forde. 

KEDGAREE. 

One-half can salmon, two cups boiled rice, two eggs, cayenne, 
two tablespoons butter, one-half teaspoon salt, one-half small 
spoon pepper, one tablespoon chopped parsley. Put in a large 
saucepan the butter, salt and pepper. When butter is melted, 
add the rice, stirring with a fork. Break fish into small bits or 
chop it, removing skin, bones and dark parts. Add this to the 
rice with any oil that may be with it. Taste and add more season- 
ing if necessary. Keep it quite hot. Last add two eggs well 
beaten and serve at once, or the eggs may be cooked hard and 
chopped fine if milk sauce should be served with it. This rule 
is also very nice made into croquettes. — Mrs. John D. Graham. 

FISH IN RAMEKINS. 

One pint fish, one cup milk, one large tablespoon butter, 
three light tablespoons flour, yolk of one egg beaten, one table- 
spoon chopped parsley, two or three drops onion juice. Make a 
dressing of the flour, egg, milk and butter, boil the fish. When 
cool mix all together and add the bread crumbs on top. — Mrs. 
W. E. Day, Dayton, Ohio., contributed by Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 



PKESBYT BRIAN COOKBOOK 27 

SCALLOPED SALMON. 

Remove the bones and skin, break into pieces. Arrange in 
baking dish with alternate layers of cracker crumbs. Make a 
cup of drawn butter sauce by melting one tablespoon of butter 
and stirring into it one tablespoon of flour. Cook until smooth, 
add one cup of milk; when boiled pour over salmon. Bake or 
steam one hour. — Mrs. O. H. Winegar. 

SALMON LOAVES. 

Use one stale baker's bun for each person; cut ofif the tops, 
scoop out the center, brush outside and inside with melted but- 
ter and put in hot oven until they are a delicate brown. While 
hot fill with creamed salmon. One cup milk, one tablespoon but- 
ter, one tablespoon flour, blended. Add slowly the beaten yolk 
of one egg, stirring mixture constantly, add salt, paprika and 
parsley to taste; add one small can salmon picked in flakes. 
Chopped hard boiled eggs may be added. Place tops of buns on 
and serve hot. — Mrs. T. P. Stevenson. 

SALMON LOAF. 

One can salmon picked and bones removed. One cup of fine 
bread crumbs, two eggs, one tablespoon lemon juice, salt and 
pepper to season. One tablespoon celery seed, (or tops chopped 
fine). Stir bread crumbs into eggs and add the other ingredients 
and stir into salmon. Put in a dish and steam two hours. 

Sauce — One tablespoon butter, three tablespoons sugar, one 
tablespoon mustard, one-half teaspoon salt and a little pepper. 
Cream together the yolks of six eggs and one cup milk, add the 
above and cook until it thickens in a double boiler, stirring, all the 
time. Just before taking from the fire add cup vinegar, table- 
spoon chopped celery or seed. — Mrs. John D. Graham. 

SALMON LOAF. 

One can salmon, large size, one cup fine bread crumbs, four 
eggs beaten light, four tablespoons melted butter. Mode — Re- 
move all bones from salmon and rub in a bowl, adding melted 
butter until it is a smooth paste. Beat bread crumbs into eggs, 
add salmon and season with salt and pepper. Steam for two 
hours in a buttered mold. Serve with or without cream sauce. 
Especially fine to serve cold, as it slices so nicely. I have used 



28 PRESBYTERIANCOOKliOOK 

this sam-e recipe, using one pint of cold chopped meat instead 
of the salmon. It is equally as good. — Lura Baker Brown, Kan- 
sas City, Missouri. 

SALMON LOAF. 

One cup salmon, one egg, juice of one lemon, one cup crack- 
er crumbs. Put in mold and steam one hour. Gravy for same — 
On-e tablespoon butter, one-half pint sweet milk, pepp-er and salt 
to taste. Turn loaf on platter, and pour gravy around it; grate 
a hard boiled egg on top of the loaf. Butter crackers, grate a 
little nutmeg on them and serve hot v.-ith the loaf. — Mrs. W. C. 
Davidson, Mrs. Thomas Cloud. 

SCALLOPED SALMON. 

One pound can salmon, remove bones two hard boiled eggs 
diced, one tablespoon choped parsley. Make a white sauce of 
one tablespoon butter, one tablespoon flour and one cup milk, 
season with pepper and salt. Alternate layers of salmon and 
white sauce with hard boiled egg and parsley sprinkled thor- 
oughly. Last layer sauce with sprinkled bread crumbs and 
butter. — Mrs. John A. Moore. 

SALMON TURBOT. 

Take one can of salmon, pick over carefully removing all 
bones. Then pulverize and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Make 
a dressing of one-third cup butter, three tablespoons flour, mix 
well, then add one pint sweet milk, put on stove to heat; whein 
it comes to a scald remove from fire to cool; after it is cooled, 
put it two well-beaten eggs and put on stove to thicken. Stir. 
When thick enough, remove froin stove and add the juice of two 
lemons and a little parsley if desired. Have ready a buttered 
baking dish and put alternate layers of fish and sauce, cover 
tcp with buttered cracker crumbs and bake. Serve with salted 
wafers. — Mrs. Alfred Henning. 

HALIBUT A LA CREOLE. 

Scald four pounds halibut, scrape black skin, rub well with 
salt and pepper. Stew together one quart tomatoes, one cup 
water, one large slice onion, three cloves, cook ten minutes and 
strain. Melt two tablespoons butter, two tablespoons flour, pour 



PRBSBYTEKIANCOOKBOOK 29 

in tomatoes a little at a time. Add one salt spoon salt. Put fish 
in baking pan, add half the dressing, bake one hour, basting 
three times with the dressing, and when done pour over the 
remainder of the sauce and serve. — Mrs. Alfred LeLang, Cincin- 
nati, contributed by Mrs. Davenport. 

CODFISH SOUFFLE. 

One-half pint bread crumbs, heated with one-half cup milk; 
when hot and smooth add a dash of cayenne and one-half box 
shredded codfish. After thoroughly mixing, add two beaten 
yolks of eggs and tablespoon butter. Beat the whites of three 
eggs to a froth, fold quickly into the mixture, and bake a light 
brown in individual cases or a pudding dish. — Mrs. J. M. Tan- 
ner. 

FRIED FROG LEGS. 

Six frogs' legs. Scald three minutes in boiling water, add 
one-half cup lemon juice, and salt. Take out of the water and 
dry with a clean towel, season with salt and pepper and dip in 
a batter made of the well beaten yolks and whites of two eggs, 
and sifted bread crumbs. Pat the frogs well and drop in boil- 
ing lard and fry to a golden brown. Take from the lard and 
drain on soft brown paper heated. Place a snow white folded 
napkin in a dish, lay the frog legs on it and garnish with fried 
parsley and sliced lemon. The white meat of tender chicken is 
a good substitute for frogs. — Mrs. T. G. Wibley. 

FISH ROLLS. 

Mix two pounds of • chopped uncooked halibut; two table- 
spoons of blanched, chopped almonds; the slightly beaten whites 
of two eggs; salt and pepper to taste and one tablespoon of 
chopped parsley. Add one pint of stifif whipped cream. Mold in- 
to rolls three inches long, dip in egg and bread crumbs and fry 
ill deep fat. Serve with a sauce made from one chopped cucum- 
ber mixed with mayonnaise. — Mrs. T. G. Wibley. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

One cup salt codfish, two and one-half cups potatoes, one 
egg, one-half tablespoon butter, one-eighth tablespoon pepper. 
Wash the fish in cold water and break into small pieces; pare 



30 PBESBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 

the potatoes and cut into small pieces. Cook the fish and po- 
tatoes together in boiling water until the potatoes are soft, drain 
and shake over the fire until dry; mash with a potato masher, 
add the beaten -egg, butter and pepper, add more salt if needed, 
and beat until light. Take up the mixture by spoonfuls, mold 
slightly, and slip them into the fat. Fry on-e minute, or until 
brown. — Elizabeth Frances Greene, Drexel Institute, Philadel- 
phia. 

CANNED LOBSTER. 

Take a can of lobst-er, cut the meat into small pieces. Put a 
tablespoon of butter into a frying pan and when melt-ed add one 
tablespoon flour. Mix smooth, then add one-half cup cream, 
one-half cup stock and stir constantly until it boils. Add the 
lobster, salt and pepper to taste. Heat thoroughly, take from 
the fire, add the beaten yolk of an egg and a tablespoon of 
chopped parsley. This may be served in paper cases or individ- 
ual dishes. — Mrs. W. C. Hughes. 

BOILED FISH. 

Clean fish carefully, rubbing inside well with salt and pepper. 
Put in a fish kettle in salt water, and simmer from eight to ten 
minutes to each pound. When about half done add a little 
vinegar or lemon juice. When done drain carefully, and serve 
with egg cream sauce. 

Sauce — One pint milk thickened with one tablespoon flour 
rubbed into two tablespoons butter; season well with salt and 
paprika, add two or three hard boiled eggs chopped fine. If one 
has no fish kettle, bend fish round, wrap in a cloth ad lay on 
a plate in the water. — Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 

FRIED FISH. 

Fresh fish should be salted an hour or two before frying. If 
large, cut across the back in five or six pieces. Roll in corn meal 
and fry a light brown, having grease quite hot to begin with. — 
Miss Ethel Ward. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

One-half cup butter, yolk three eggs creamed together. One- 
fourth teaspoon salt and pepper. Add one-third cup boiling 



PRESBYTERIANCOOKBOOK 31 

water, stirring until it thickens. Just as it is done add one table- 
spoon lemon juice. — Mrs. J. AI. Tanner. 

TARTAR SAUCE. 

Stir together in a tin cup over boiling water, one tablespoon 
tarragon vinegar, one tablespoon lemon juice, a pinch of salt, 
one tablespoon Worchestershire sauce. When well mixed and 
hot add one-third cup browned butter. This should be used 
hot on broiled fish.— Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 

SAUCE TARTARS. 

Chop fine a tablespoon of capers, another of cucumber pickles, 
one of olives, one of parsley and a little onion juice. Stir this in- 
to mayonnaise dressing, and is used cold for fried fish and crabs. 
—Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 

SAUCES FOR FISH. 

Broiled fresh mackerel, stewed gooseberries. 
Boiled blue fish, white cream sauce. 
Broiled shad, boiled rice and salad. 
Fresh salmon, green peas, cream sauce. 

Hollandaise sauce is used with most fresh water fish, as white, 
cat or pickerel. 

DELICIOUS SAUCE FOR FISH. 

One tablespoon butter, melt in stewpan; add one tablespoon 
flour and stir to a smooth paste; add one-half teaspoon of salt, 
one-half teaspoon paprika, and one teacup milk; boil five minutes, 
stirring constantly. Add three-quarters cup of butternut meats 
and one teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce. — INIiss Rambo. 



32 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 



-FOR YOUR- 



Pure Spices and Fine Lemon and 
Vanilla Extracts 



CALL AT 



Ryder & Protheroe^s 



DRUGGISTS 



EMPORIA, KANSAS 




A GOOD 

COOK 



may fail to get good re- 
sults from the recipes 
n this book unless she 
has a good fire. She 
can always have that 
by using some of our 

COAL 



It is free burning, well screened and we deliver promptly. We 
also have a full line of LUMBER and other Building Material. 

Emporia Lumber & Coal Company 



Poultry and Game 



"Even for our kitchen, we kill the foiile of season." 

To broil, split the body down the back and lay open. In 
cutting', up fowl for fricassee do not break the bones, cut the 
joints. 

Fowls with white meat should be well cooked. 

Fowls with dark meat may be underdone. 

Flesh of game is apt to be tougher when first killed. It is 
more tender if kept some time, or if frozen 

SAUCES FOR POULTRY AND GAME. 

Boiled chicken, bread sauce. 
Boiled turkey, oyster sauce. 
Roast turkey, cranberry sauce. 
Venison and wild duck, black currant jelly. 
Pigeons, mushroom sauce. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Grate a stale loaf of bread; season highly with salt, pepper 
and sage, add a cup of celery diced. Sprinkle through this three 
tablespoons melted butter. With a spoon put the prepared 
crumbs where the crop was in the body of the fowl. Do not 
pack tight as crumbs will swell when moistened with the steam. 
Fold back the wings, and press the legs close to the body. Put 
the turkey in the pan, back up, until browned. Then turn over 
and baste every fifteen minutes. Put the water in which celery 
was cooked in the pan and use for basting. An eight pound 
turkey will cook thoroughly in two hours. — Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 

ROAST GOOSE. 

When carefully cleaned wash well several times in quite hot 
water. Put in double roasting pans, fill half full of hot water 
and allow it to steam and cook in the oven one hour. Remove 
from the oven, pour oflf all the water. Rinse out the baking 



34 PRRSBYTERIANCOOKBOOK 

pan, rinse and wipe the g'oose. This is to remove surplus grease. 
Then stuff and season same as turkey, unless onion dressing 
is desired. Return to the roasting pan with tablespoon of 
coarse salt in the pan, and one pint of boiling wate'r. Cook 
two hours; when one side is sufficiently brown, turn and brown 
the other. Baste occasionally, make gravy same as for turkey. 
— H. Davenport. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Cover the chicken with boiling water, season with salt and 
pepper, let simmer until the meat begins to separate from the 
bone. Remove the meat and cut into small pieces. Break the 
bones, put back in kettle, and boil slowly. 

Covering — Rub two tablespoons of shortening in two cups 
of flour, and three-fourths cup of milk, beat the white of one 
egg stiff, add yolk and mix all together. Put the meat into the 
baking dish boiling hot, not much gravy; cover thinly. Strain 
the liquid from the bones, make a gravy of it with flour and 
butter, to place over pie when it is served. — Mrs. R. J. Edwards. 

CHICKEN TURBOT. 

One can mushrooms, two tablespoons butter, two tablespoons 
flour cooked together; add one pint cream, or part cream and 
part chicken stock. One chicken cooked and cut fine as for 
salad. Mix chicken and mushrooms, put in a pan and pour over 
dressing. Sprinkle with cracker crumbs, and put bits of butter 
over the top, and bake one-half hour. Three chickens will serve 
twenty. — Mrs. I. D. Lewis. 

CHICKEN RAMEKINS. 

Cut cold chicken into small dice, add as much cold boiled 
rice, or a little more, season with minced parsley, cayenne pep- 
per and gravy, if stewed or roasted, if not add small lumps of 
butter. Place in ramekins and cover with bread crumbs browned 
in butter. Heat in the oven in a pan of water. — Mrs. W. E. Day, 
Dayton, Ohio. 

STEAMED FRIED CHICKEN. 

Cut up a young chicken, wash thoroughly, drain, dredge with 
salt and pepper. Roll each piece in flour and lay in hot lard. 



PRESBYTERIAN COOKBOOK 35 

Brown both sides carefully and quickly under a light cover, 
then remove light covering and use a milk crock for covering. 
Set where it will cook very slowly for one hour. Turn occa- 
sionally. — Mrs. S. J. Pierce. 

CHICKEN NOODLES. 

Beat three eggs together, add pinch of salt and enough flour 
to stiffen. Roll very thin, sprinkle with flour and let dry; then 
roll as for jelly roll and cut very thin, intersecting the roll twice 
before slicing. Drop a few at a time into boiling chicken broth, 
and cook all for twenty minutes, stirring occasionally. These 
can also be cooked with good beef broth. — Mrs. J. M. Rhodes. 

CHICKEN DUMPLINGS. 

One pint milk, two eggs well beaten, little salt, flour to make 
quite stiff, drop in boiling liquid. Thes-e are excellent warmed 
over. Put a small quantity of boiling water in pan and let steam 
thoroughly. — Mrs. E. G. Eustis. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

Cook chicken very tender, remove the meat from liquor and 
cut moderately fine. Let the liquor cook down until you have 
three-fourths cup to each chicken, then season ligihtly with salt, 
pepper and celery salt, and add one teaspoon of gelatine. Then 
return meat to liquor, and put in pans to mold. — Mrs. Howard 
Dunlap. 

SMOTHERED CHICKEN. 

Cut chicken in halves or quarters, place in baking pan with 
two cups water, teaspoon salt; put cover on baker and cook on 
top of stove one hour. Add more water if needed, then add two 
tablespoons butter, two tablespoons vinegar and finish cooking. 
The last twenty minutes brown in gas oven, after dusting with 
flour and basting with the liquor. Make gravy as usual with 
flour and milk in pan after chicken is taken up. If chicken is 
young, do not cook more than one hour altogether. If old, two 
hours will be quite enough. The liquor should cook down quite 
thick when it goes to the oven. — Mrs. Ida Moore Irwin. 

BAKED MALLARD DUCK. 

Dress six ducks carefully, wash in salt water and dry with 



36 PUESBYTERIAKCOOKBOOK 

a cloth. Take one pound of boiled ham, three small onions, three 
large raw potatoes, five stalks celery, one apple, small handful 
bay leaves; grind thoroughly through meat chopper. Take two 
loaves of bread, soak in water until soft, drain off the water; mix 
all together with a tablespoon of ground allspice, a tablespoon 
ground cloves, add salt and pepper. Stuff the ducks, then salt 
them and roll in flour. Put them into a roasting pan. Take two 
loaves of bread, soak until soft, drain off the water and cover 
the ducks well. Put them in hot oven and bake two hours and 
a half. Serve with currant jelly. — Charles Hinkk, Chef Mit-Way 
Hotel. 

BAKED SQUAB OR QUAIL. 

Stuff the same as roast turkey, and place in a covered baker. 
Put a gjenerous supply of butter, say half a cup, over them, one 
cup water for twelve. Let them bake slowly for two hours. 
Keep covered until last, then brown quickly. — Mrs. Howard 
Dunlap. 

FRIED QUAIL. 

Split open on back, salt, pepper and flour well; cover bottom 
of frying pan with thin slices of pickled pork, and when fried 
out put birds in and cook slowly and turn them over frequently. 
When done, serve on slices of toast with a spoonful of gravy. 
Prairie chicken cooked in the same way is very fine. — ]\Irs. C. 
W. Squires. 

SQUAB ON TOAST. 

Dress squab carefully, season with salt and roll in flour, put 
in pan of hot creamery butter, cover with lid and cook slowly 
for twenty-five minutes. Take two slices of bread, toasted 
brown on both sides, place on platter, garnish with parsley and 
serve with cream sauce. — Charles Hinkle, Chef Mit-Way Hotel. 

SQUAB PIE. 

Dress six squabs carefully, parboil until tender, then remove 
the birds, drain off the liquor and add as much milk. Season 
with salt, pepper and a large tablespoon butter, thicken with 
two large spoons of flour and milk, and let come to a boil. Put 
the squabs into a baking dish, pour the gravy over them and 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 37 

cover with crust. Crust made same as rich biscuit dough, rolled 
thin. Brush the crust over with two well beaten eggs. Make 
a few transverse lines in the paste with a fork, and cut a small 
hole in the center. Bake in a brisk oven for fift'Cen minutes. — 
Charles Hinkle, Chef Mit-Way Hotel. 

BROWNED RABBIT. 

Wash through several waters. Drop from the last washing 
into a shallow dish and season well with salt and pepper, mix- 
ing well so that each piece is seasoned. Have in the skillet a 
small tablespoon of lard; when hot put in the rabbit and the 
seasoned mixture, cover tight and let cook for half hour. Re- 
move the cover, add two tablespoons lard and brown each piece 
nicely. Do not allow it to burn. Have ready on your warm meat 
plate, two tablespoons butter, one-half cup hot water, a little salt 
and pepper. As the pieces brown dip each one in the butter 
gravy and serve on same plate. — H. Davenport. 



38 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

B. SALISBURY 

Real Estate, Rental and In 
surance Agent 



Established 1886 



H. Dunlap, President L. Jay Buck, Cashier 

W. T. Soden, Vice President H. E. Peach, Asst. Cash. 

Emporia National Bank 

JBIMPORIA, KANSAS 

CAPITAL AND SURPLUS. $235,000 

A. GENERAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED 

S. H. iVarren Marshall Warreti Frank P. Warren 



Warren Mortgage Company 

EMPORIA, KANSAS 



Money to Lend at Lowest Rates 

Easy Terms — 



Privilege to Make Partial Loans Closed Without 

Payments Delay 



Meats and Relishes 



"Some hae meat, and canna eat 

And som* wad eat that want it 
But we hae meat, and we can eat. 

And sae the Lord be thanket." 

— Burns. 

MEAT RULES. 

When cutting meat to cook always cut across the grain of the 
muscle. Never wash fresh meat before roasting; scrape it if 
necessary to clean it. Never put meat directly on the ice; put it 
in a vessel on the ice. If you baste roast meat, do not use salt 
in the basting; salt the meat when removed from the oven. 

Salt and season boiling meats while cooking. In boiling put 
fresh meats in hot water, and salt meats in cold water. 

Never salt and pepper broiling meat while cooking. Season 
with salt and pepper and butter after removing from the grid- 
iron. An ordinary pan is good for broiling; heat very hot; use 
no fat of any kind; put the meat flat on the pan, turn rapidly and 
often, and you will find a "pan broil" very nice. Season when 
done. 

Put sugar in the water used for basting meats of all kinds. 
It gives a good flavor, to veal especially. 

In cooking tough fowls or meat, one tablespoon of vinegar 
in the water will save nearly two hours boiling. 

All mutton and lamb should be skinned before cooking. 

MEATS AND THEIR RELISHES. 

With roast beef, grated horse-radish. 

With roast pork, apple sauce. 

Roast veal, tomato or mushroom sauce. 

Roast mutton, currant jelly. 

Boiled mutton, caper sauce. 

Roast lamb, mint sauce. 

Broiled fresh mackerel, sauce of stewed gooseberries. 



40 PIIESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

LOIN OF VEAL WITH DRESSING. 

Have the bone removed by the butcher from a nic-e loin of 
veal, not too large around; wash, season, and make a nice dress- 
ing and fill cavity; roast in covered roasting pan until well done. 
Make a cream dressing of one tablespoon butter and one and 
one-half tablespoons flour, creamed, one pint new milk; heat and 
thicken and season. Add one cup grated cheese. This is enough 
for five pounds after bone is removed, and will serve six or 
eight. Half an hour before serving, carve the loin in thick slices, 
putting creamed dressing between each slice; reconstruct, put 
dressing over top and one-half cup grated cheese sprinkled over. 
Return to the oven and let get a nice brown. Serve with gravy, 
and sometimes it is nice to put creamed mushrooms on top and 
brown. The loin of veal should be sewed in a cheese cloth to 
keep the dressing and loin in shape. It is also nice to take veal 
chops and roast, and when done slice each chop and put cream 
dressing in, reconstruct, and bake the same as loin, only omit the 
crumb dressing. — Mrs. Cora Borton Ryder. 

CREAMED LIVER AND BACON. 

Place one dozen slices of bacon in a frying pan, cook until 
crisp and place on platter. Wash one pound sliced calf's liver, 
dredge with flour and cook in bacon fat until nicely browned. 
Then place on platter with bacon. Mix heaping tablespoon flour 
in one teacup cold water until smooth; pour in pan and cook un- 
til it thickens. Pour over liver and bacon and serve. — Mrs. S. J. 
Hubbell, Kansas City^ Missouri. 

FILLET OF BEEF WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Roast eight pounds of beef fillet about three hours in a slow 
oven. When done, brown three tablespoons flour with two of 
butter, add this to the meat drippings with one pint of water, salt 
and pepper. Add to this sauce one can of mushrooms (whole) 
pour over roast and send to the table. Garnish with parsley. — 
Mrs. F. C. Newman. 

ROAST BEEF. 

Secure a rib of beef, remove the bone, roll and tie securely, 
dredge top with flour and put in hot oven. When seared, pour 
a small quantity of hot water in pan, adding a little at a time 



PRBSBYTERIANCOOKBOOK 41 

as needed. When half cooked commence to season, and continue 
each time of basting, which should be every fifteen minutes. — 
Mrs. J. McM. Taylor. 

RAGOUT OF BEEF. 

Take the last of a beef roast, (veal or other small meat can 
be used), cut up in small pieces and put in baking dish. Cook 
a dozen sticks of macaroni in boiling salt water till tender, and 
put over the meat. Add a cup of tomatoes, any gravy or stock 
you may have, or if neither, use water to moisten, and plenty of 
salt, pepper and butter to season. Sprinkle with bread crumbs. 
Bake twenty minutes. — Mrs. Carrie Jones Sauber. 

PIE TO ACCOMPANY ROAST BEEF. 

Butter a shallow baking dish, coat with fine bread crumbs, 
fill with well mashed and seasoned potatoes whipped until light. 
Put on a pastry crust and bake as a pie. Serve with the roast, 
adding a spoonful or two of brown sauce. — Mrs. R. W. Jeremy. 

BAKED LEG OF MUTTON. 

Take a leg of mutton weighing six or eight pounds, cut down 
the under sid-e and remove the^one; fill with dressing made of 
four ounces of suet, two ounces of chopped ham, six ounces of 
bread crumbs, two eggs, one onion, a little thyme, sweet mar- 
joram, salt, pepper, and sew up. Cook three hours. — Mrs. F. A. 
Loomis. 

MOCK DUCK. 

Take a loin of steak, remove bone; make a dressing of dried 
bread crumbs, seasoned with salt, pepper, sage, onion and a little 
butter, or some of the fat of steak. Moisten with cold water, but 
not enough to make soft. Put one-half of dressing on one-half 
of steak, turn other half over and cover with the rest of dress- 
ing. Lay a few slices of tomatoes on top, also the bone. Cook 
thoroughly, and serve with brown gravy. — Mrs. J. McM. Taylor. 

IRISH STEW. 

Time about two hours. Two and one-half pounds of chops, 
eight potatoes, four turnips, four small onions, nearly a quart of 
water. Take some chops from loin of mutton, place them in the 



42 PBKSBYTEKIANCOOKBOOK 

stewpan in alternate layers of sliced potatoes and chops, add 
turnips and onions cut into pieces, pour in nearly a quart of cold 
water; cover stewpan closely, let it stew gently till vegetables 
are ready to mash, and the greater part of the gravy is absorbed; 
then place in a dish, season to taste; serve it up hot. — Mrs. Dennis 
Madden. 

HAMBURG STEAK. 

One pound round steak, one-fourth pound fresh pork. Trim 
and wash, put through meat grinder, season with pepper and salt. 
Mold into two large cakes an inch thick. Sprinkle with flour. Fry 
rapidly in equal parts butter and lard, until nicely browned; 
then put on cover and let cook slowly for half an hour. — Mrs. 
Blanche B. Stevenson. 

BEEFSTEAK SMOTHERED IN ONIONS. 

Slice onions thin, and fry for ten minutes, stirring often. Re- 
move half of them, pound the steak and lay on remaining onions, 
then cover with the rest. Dredge each layer with salt, pepper 
and flour, pour on a cup of boiling water, cover closely and let 
simmer half an hour. Serve with steak in center of dish and 
onions heaped around. — Mrs. F. D. Mac Arthur. 

STEAK SMOTHERED WITH ONIONS. 

Fry half a dozen onions in lard and remove from the pan. 
then take a rump steak and fry in the same pan in butter, two 
minutes on each side. Remove meat to a dripping pan, season 
well, place the fried onions and a cup of tomatoes on the meat. 
Add a little water and bake twenty minutes. — Mrs. Carrie Jones 
Sauber. 

FRIED SWEETBREADS. 

Let them lie in cold water thirty minutes. Remove all mem- 
branes and cook in salted water twenty minutes. Then put in 
cold water to harden; divide into any size preferred, dip in egg 
and roll in cracker meal. Lay in wire basket and fry in deep 
fat— Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 

/ FRIED CALF BRAINS. 

Drop the brains in cold water and change until they are white. 



PKESBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 43 

Carefully remove any tough muscle. Soak in vinegar and water 
two minutes, drain and dip each piece after it has been salted 
in beaten egg, and fry in hot fat. Garnish with parsley and / 
serve with tomatoes or other tart sauce. — Mrs. Stratton Nation./ 

BROILED SWEETBREADS. 

Select the throat sweetbreads and soak half an hour in cold 
water. Place in boiling salted water with a teaspoon vinegar. 
Cook without boiling twenty-five minutes. Then place in cold 
water. Carefully remove every trace of the pipe and membranes 
surrounding each lobe. They are then ready for the various 
dishes, but should only be heated, not again cooked. For broil- 
ing, split and place in a fine wire broiler. When brown serve 
with lemon and toast points. — Mrs. Davenport. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Three pounds of veal, three-fourths of pickled pork chopped 
fine, two eggs well beaten, one-half teacup rolled crackers, grated 
rind and juice of one lemon, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon 
white pepper, one-half teaspoon cayenne. Press into a loaf. Bake 
one hour in a dripping pan with one teacup of water. Baste fre- 
quently. This is considered very fine. — Mrs. J. H. Rauscher. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Skin six veal cutlets, lay in a skillet, cover tightly and let them 
steam slowly in their own juice until cooked through. Drain 
them on a plate, then dip in egg and cracker crumbs and fry a 
golden brown. Season well. The juice that steamed out, add to 
the gravy. Veal cooked this way is very digestible and dainty. 
They can be served with tomato sauce if preferred to the brown 
gravy. — Mrs. Davenport. 

MARYLAND BAKED HAM. 

Take a medium-sized ham and boil fifteen minutes for each 
pound. When done, take from the fire and remove the rind. 
Spread over the fatty surface a tablespoon of mustard, which 
has been prepared by adding a little vinegar. Press this layer of 
mustard in well with a spo'on. On the mustard spread a layer 
of brown sugar, and then one of bread or cracker crumbs. Put 



44 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

back in oven for fifteen minutes or until brown. This may be- 
eaten either warm or cold. — Mrs. James G. Kirkwood. 

PICKLED PORK. 

Take a good side of pork, not too fat, remove rind, salt lightly 
over night; in the morning sprinkle with cloves, allspice, cin- 
namon, black pepper, all ground. Roll tight with spice side in, 
and tie with a strong cord. Sew in muslin sack and boil until 
thoroughly done. Let cool, slice and put in cold cider vinegar. 
— Gilchrists, Adamsburgh Inn, Pennsylvania. 

SAUSAGE. 

Ten pounds o'f meat, four tablespoons sage, four tablespoons 
salt, two tablespoons pepper. Mix thoroughly with the hands. — 
Mrs. W. C. Long. 

NOODLES. 

One egg, pinch of salt and flour to make very stiff. Knead 
until hard. Divide into three parts and roll each piece out very 
thin. Cut into strips about an inch wide and let dry. Then pile 
strips on top of each other and shave fine with a sharp knife. 
Scatter on the board to dry. These will keep a long time. Nice 
in meat soup. — Mrs. A. Weatherly. 

POLISH BAKED NOODLES OR PECHENY NUDDLE. 

Prepare the noodles as above except do not roll so thin into 
the sheets. Cut into strips and out into squares. Let dry and 
then throw into boiling water. As they come to the surface 
take up with a skimmer and drain. Fill the bottom of a baking 
dish with these squares and scatter bits of boiled ham, soma- 
what fat, over them. Continue this way until dish is filled. Bake 
in a quick oven. Serve hot. — Mrs. Albert Weatherly. 

MEAT LOAF. 

Three pounds of veal or round steak ground fine. Three eggs 
well beaten, five tablespoons cracker crumbs, six tablespoons 
milk, one tablespooti salt, one teaspoon pepper. If you use veal, 
add butter the size of an egg. One-fourth pound of suet if beef 
is used. Grind the suet in with the meat, make into two rolls, 
and roll in cracker crumbs, put in a pan with a pint of water, 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 45 

bake two hours, basting often unless covered pan is useu. — Mrs. 
George Culbertson. 

PRESSED MEAT OF Ax^Y KIND. 

Boil 'chicken, veal or any kind of meat till very tender. Sea- 
son with salt, pepper and a little butter while cooking. When 
cold grind fine. For two pounds meat add two cups ground 
crackers, four or six hard boiled eggs chopped, little celery salt, 
one tablespoon gelatine dissolved and enough hot broth to make 
soft. Pack in square dishes. Let stand over night. — Mrs. W. 
C. Long. 

BREADED TONGUE WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Sauce — One-half can tomatoes, one sliced onion, one bay leaf 
cooked together fifteen minutes, strain and thicken with three 
tablespoons of flour and three tablespoons of butter rubbed to- 
gether. Salt and pepper to taste. Slice boiled tongue, dip in 
beaten egg and bread crumbs, saute in butter, place on a hot dish 
and pour the sauce around them. — Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 

BROWNED HASH. 

One cup meat, two cups mashed potatoes, one-third or more 
of boiling water, four tablespoons fat, salt, pepper, onion juice, 
chopped parsley. Put the mixture into a frying pan in which 
one tablespoon of the fat has been heated. Spread smoothly; 
ccok over a moderate heat so it will brown slowly and not burn. 
Cook about one-half hour and do not stir. Fold like an omelet. 
The same mixture may be made into small cakes about three- 
fourths inch thick and browned in the same way. — Elizabeth 
Frances Greene, Drexel Institute, Philadelphia. 

SCRAPPLE. 

Make a thick corn meal mush and season with salt, pepper 
and powdered sage to taste. Add cold boiled veal ground fine; 
stir well and put in a pan to cool; slice and fry. Any kind of 
cold meat can be used. — Mrs. H. Parkman. 

STUFFED MANGOES. 

Boil veal till tender, season with a pinch of thyme, bay leaf 
and small onion, salt and pepper to taste. Run through meat 



46 ' PRESBYTEItlAN COOK BOOK 

chopper. Make a sauce of one tablespoon butter, melted, one 
tablespoon flour rubbed with this till smooth, add one cup milk, 
stirring all till the sauce is smooth. Add the meat to this. Cut 
ofif the small end of green mangoes, hollow out seeds or not, 
as the pepper taste is liked; fill with meat preparation. Put in 
pan with little hot water in bottom and cook one-half hour or 
more. If the mangoes are used for the cases, just heat the 
meat through. Bread crumbs and bits of butter or the beaten 
whites of eggs are used on the tops of these cases. — Mrs. D. F. 
Longenecker. 

MINT SAUCE FOR LAMB. 

Chop young leaves of mint, two teaspoons powdered sugar, 
three tablespoons of mint, six tablespoons vinegar, a dash of 
salt and pepper. Mix. — Mrs. Stratton Nation. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

Take the liquor in which mutton has been boiled, skim off 
all the fat until only a few "eyes" remain; to a pint of the liquid 
add one small tablespoon flour, rubbed smooth in cold water; 
let this boil up, then add one hard boiled egg chopped fine, and 
one heaping tablespoon of cut capers. — Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 

HORSE-RADISH BUTTER. 

Work together one tablespoon butter and one teaspoon grat- 
ed horse-radish, one-third salt spoon white pepper and a pinch of 
salt. Mold into tiny balls and serve on broiled steak, just as it 
goes to the table. — Mrs. A. S. Newman. 

CREAM MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

For six persons take from six to eight good sized mush- 
rooms, skin, sprinkle with salt and allow them to stand for an 
hour or more. When ready to cook, quarter the mushrooms, 
put in a saucepan with one-fourth cup butter, cover tightly. Let 
them boil in the butter and their own juices for about ten min- 
utes, then add a cup of rich cream, or as much more as the 
strenglth of the mushroom flavor will permit. Let it all boil up 
together. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Add flour 
enough to thicken the sauce to the consistency of cream, and 
serve on broiled steak or over toast. — Mrs. W. A. White. 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 47 

GOOSEBERRY FOOL. 

Cook one pint of gooseberries until soft, strain and press 
through a colander, then add sugar to taste and cook until rather 
thick. When cold beat one tumblerful into one-half pint or more 
of whipped cream. Serve in sherbet cups or small glasses with 
the meat course. If desired, a few broken English walnuts 
and cherries may b-e added. Currants may be used in the same 
way. The white of an egg beaten stiff may be used in place 
of whipped cream. — Mrs. William B. Irwin. 

MEAT PIE. 

Cut meat into two-inch peices, add one onion, piece of carrot, 
bay leaf, a little celery or celery salt; cook until meat is tender, 
add salt and pepper, thicken the gravy with butter and flour 
thickening, and add one-half teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, (if 
beef is used.) 

Crust — One cup flour, one teaspoon baking powder, pinch 
salt, sifted together, one tablespooa (small), of butter, enough 
milk to make a soft dough. Put meat in pan and put crust over 
the top, cut small openings in crust for steam to escape. There 
should be plenty of gravy with the meat. Bake fifteen or twenty 
minutes. — Mrs. W. H. Brooks. 

MARBLED MEATS. 

Chop fine, cold cooked salt beef tongue, also one pound of 
cold cooked veal or chicken, and one pound of roasted or boiled 
beef; season the veal and beef with salt, pepper and a suspicion 
of nutmeg. Pack this in layers with a dusting of chopped pars- 
ley and thin slices of hard boiled eggs between the layers; when 
you have the last layer in the mold press the whole well to- 
gether with a broad bladed knife. Cover half a box of gelatine 
with a half cup of cold water, and allow it to soak for half an 
hour; add a pint of hot water, half a teaspoon of beef extract, 
a palatable seasoning of salt, pepper and the juice of a lemon. 
Baste this over the top of the meat while it is still in the mold. 
If it does not penetrate easily, pierce the meat here and there, 
with a skewer or larding needle. When the meat has absorbed 
the pint of gelatine, stand it aside over night. To serve, dip 
the mold quickly into hot water; turn out the meat; garnish with 
cress or lettuce and pass with it sauce tartare, tomato ketchup, 
or mayonnaise dressing. — Mrs. C. B. Jackson. 



48 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

JELLIED MEAT. 

One pound meat, one pint stock, three ounces gelatine, one 
teaspoon salt, one-fourth of pepper, one of lemon juice, two hard 
cooked eggs, one tablespoon chopped parsley. Soften the gela- 
tine in cold water, add the hot stock and seasoning, then the 
finely chopped cooked meat. Wet a mold with cold water, place 
in it the eggs cut in slices and the finely chopped parsley, then 
add the meat mixture, and allow it to stand until firm and cold. 
Garnish it with parsley or lettuce. — Elizabeth Frances Greene, 
Drexel Institute, Philadelphia. 

NUT MEATOSE. 

Tak€ one cup peanut butter, one cup sifted beans, one and 
one-half cups water, two tablespoons corn starch and one tea- 
spoon salt. Add onion or sage to suit taste, and cook in a double 
boiler with lid from three to five hours. Sliced as cold meat it is 
fine. — Mrs. Nelli-e Pemshon Morgan. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Beat three eggs very light with one-third teaspoon of salt; 
one heaping cup of sifted flour, one and one-third cups of sweet 
milk. Beat all together five or ten minut-es. Drain some of the 
drippings from your roast beef into another pan, pour your 
batter into it and bake in a hot oven from fifteen to twenty min- 
utes. Serve hot with your roast beef. The pudding, when cor- 
rect, should be very light. — Mrs. J. H. Frith. 

TO DRY BEEF. 

It is far better for two persons to buy the meat together, and 
have the butcher cut so as to make two or three large pieces for 
each. Have a large stone jar, put in one piece and cover with 
salt, brown sugar, pepper and a little saltpetre; then lay on top 
of that another piece of beef and sprinkle heavily with salt, 
sugar, pepper and a little saltpetre and so on until your beef 
is all in. Push it down solidly and place a heavy weight on top 
of beef, cover the jar and every few days turn the meat until it 
makes a liquor; then keep turning till it takes most of the liquor 
up. I generally leave it in the jar for three weeks, take out one 
piece at a time and dry in warming oven until the outside is dry, 
then put in paper sacks and hang by furnace or stove to dry. If 



PRESBYTEBIAN COOK BOOK 49 

hung in buttery, after it is dried, or some place not too damp or 
too warm, will keep nicely. — Mrs. J. M. Steele. 

CHILE CON CARNE. 

Two pounds round steak, one large teacup of chopped onions, 
one can tomatoes, two Chili peppers. Cut steak in inch pieces, 
salt and sprinkle well with flour; put one tablespoon of lard and 
one tablespoon of butter in hot frying pan. Fry the meat until 
browned nicely, sprinkle again with flour and add one and one- 
half pints hot water; let cook for one-half hour. Add onions, 
strain the tomatoes, pour over the meat; add Chili peppers and 
cook slowly for one-half hour. The seeds should be removed 
from the peppers before cooking them; put in water and cook 
until the skin can be removed from the meat of the pepper. Chop 
the pepper fine and add to other ingredients. — Mrs. F. J. Dale. 



50 PRKSBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 



It Is a Fact! 



Affirmed by hundreds of Emporia's leading- citizens and by numerous stu- 
dents and patients from all over the state, that you get the most perfectly fitted 
glasses in Emporia at 

Dp- Simson and Daughter's Optical Parlors 

706 CommeroJal Street 

The Doctor successfully treats all diseases of the Eye and also makes a specialty 
of Catarrh and all other diseases of the Respiratory Organs and Hearing 



C. p. Theis 



DEALER IN 

Boots, Shoes, Arctics, Rubber Boots 
and Shoes 

Boots atnd Shoes Made and Repaired 
Satisfaction Guaranteed 422 1-2 Commercial Street 



Does a general catering business. Party estimates gladly furnished. Caller 

address 



MRS. DAN WEEKS 

;ral catering business. Party estimates gladly furnish 
address 

710 Eural Street Telephone 734 

Fot Fresh Groceries, Candies and Homemade Bread, call at 

Winters Grocery 

911 Commercial Street 

Cleansing \A/ork:s 

Hay, \/an Tassel <fe Co. 

Do all kinds of French, Dry and Steam Cleaning. All garments 
cleaned without any removals. 

814 Commercial Street Telephone 272 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 51 

The McKillip & Swallow Co. 

BUY, SELL OK EXCHANGE 

Farms and Pasture Land. Make Farm Loans 
at Lowest Rates and Easy Terms 

C, H. SWALLOW 



The McKillip & Swallow Co. 

BUY, SELL OR EXCHANGE 

City Property. Make City Loans at Current 

Rates. Insure You Against Loss by 

Fire, Lightning and Tornado 

H. L. DWELLE 

All the Best CooRs Want the Best 
Flour to Get the Best Results 



GIVE THE 

Fancy Patent 

FLOUR 



MADE BY THE 



City Roller Mill Company 

A FAIR TRIAL. AVE GUARANTEE IT. 



52 PRE8BYTERIANCOOKBOOK 



THE RIGHT FLiR 



If you wish to get the 
BEST RESULTS from the 
use of the recipes in this 
book, when you call for 
Flour, use FIVE ROSES. 

FIVE ROSES flour has 
no equal for HIGH quality 
and GREAT economy. 



Sold by all 
Grocers 



J. R. SODEN'S 

Five Roses Flour 



Emporia, Kansas 



Bread 



'"Here is bread which strengthens men's hearts, and is therefore 
call-ed the staff of Hfe." 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

Use the best flour. In cold weather alwa3'^s heat it before mix- 
ing the bread. After the bread is mixed, place in a well greased 
bowl or pan to rise; keep in a warm plac-e. When formed into 
loaves the dough should rise until bulk is doubled. After baking, 
grease the loaves with butter or lard, insuring a soft crust. 
Seventy-five to eighty degrees is the best temperature for rais- 
ing plain doughs but fancy breads need ninety degrees. A steam 
air is good but avoid draughts. White dough tripks in bulk 
th-e first rising, and doubles the second time. Graham dough 
increases less in bulk. Rolls should be lighter than bread when 
first put in the oven, and need a hotter oven; bake fifteen to 
twenty minutes. Sweetened bread burns easily, so protect the 
bottom. The oven must be about 400 or 500 degrees for bread, 
not too hot at first or the crust will burn before the crumb is 
cooked. The first kneading blends the ingredients, the second 
makes fine grain and will take from one-half to one hour. — Mrs. 
F. J. Dale. 

POTATO BEER. 

Grate two good-sized potatoes, add one-half cup sugar, one- 
third teaspoon ginger. Pour over all one-half pint boiling water 
in which a pinch of hops has been boiled. Keep in a warm place 
for eight days, stirring occasionally. On the eighth day it is 
ready for use. 

Liquid — Over two mashed potatoes pour the water in which 
they were boiled, adding enough warm water to make three 
pints of liquid, add one teaspoon of salt, one-half cup sugar. 
When cool add one pint of the starter. Let all stand over night. 
Before making the sponge save one pint of the liquid as a 



64 PRKSBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 

Starter for future use. The beer should be used twice a week 
in summer. Keep in a cool place. — Mrs. R. J. Edwards. 

BREAD. 

One-half cup home-made yeast, one large mashed potato; 
scald one quart of flour with the water in which potato was boil- 
ed, let cool, then add yeast, which has been soaking in cup of 
water. Beat well and put in a warm place to rise until morn- 
ing. In the morning add one quart watm water, one tablespoon 
melted lard, two tablespoons salt (scant), one-half cup sugar, 
enough flour to make moderately stiff, kneadu and let rise, mold 
and let rise again. When light, mold into six loaves and when 
light bake in a moderate oven fifty to sixty minutes.^Mrs. Wil- 
liam Huestis. 

BREAD. 

When putting your bread in the pans, take a small cup of the 
dough and put it in a warm (not hot) place. After it rises and is 
partially dry puncture so that it may dry perfectly. When you 
want to bake again, put this to soak at noon, adding one-half 
cake yeast foam the day before you want to bake. At supper 
time put one well mashed potato and a pint of potato water 
into a two-gallon vessel, add three pints lukewarm water, two 
tablespoons salt and four tablespoons sugar, flour to make a stiflf 
batter; then add the rising, stir well and add a little more flour 
if necessary, as it is better to have the sponge a little stiff. In 
the morning put three pints of flour into your bread pan. Add 
the sponge; use only enough flour to make the dough nice to 
handle; be careful not to mix too stiff. Knead vigorously ten 
minutes. Let rise again in a warm place, then make into loaves, 
heat the oven and when loaves have risen bake three-fourths' of 
an hour. This will make six medium-sized loaves. — Mrs. L. G. 
Martin, College Hill. 

BREAD. 

Sponge^At noon take one large potato, mashed with a pint of 
water in which it has been boiled; when lukewarm add one 
tablespoon salt, two tablespoons sugar and one-half cake of 
yeast foam. Thicken with flour quite stiff and let rise until bed- 
time. Then take one and one-half quarts of flour, add sponge 
and two quarts of warm water in winter and cold in summer. 



PKESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 55 

In the morning add two quarts of flour, work well and let rise 
twice before putting in pans. 

Note — Soak yeast cake twelve hours, use on-e-half cake in 
summer, one cake in winter. — Mrs. M. N. Taylor. 

BREAD WITH COMPRESSED YEAST. 

In the evening soak for one-half hour one cake of com- 
pressed yeast in one-half pint lukewarm water. After this has 
soaked take one quart lukewarm water and one quart sweet 
milk, one tablespoon lard, two tablespoons sugar and one of 
salt. Melt the lard and add it with sugar and salt to wat-er and 
milk. Stir in the well dissolved yeast, then add two quarts flour 
and with a large spoon beat until smooth and fine. Add two 
quarts more flour or enough until it can be turned on bread 
board. Knead until fine and elastic, twenty minutes or mor-e. 
Be careful not to use too much flour. Put in a large well greased 
bread pan to rise over night. A warm place in winter and a 
cool place in summer; it will be ready to mold into loaves before 
breakfast, and baked in the early morning. — Mrs. Davenport. 

BREAD. 
Take one cake of any good yeast for a starter; soak per- 
•fectly soft, then cook three or four potatoes and mash, add one- 
half cup sugar, one tablespoon salt. Beat thoroughly and let 
stand over night. In the morning put a pint of this away in a 
glass jar in a cool place. Make a sponge or not as you please, 
add plenty of water to make all the bread when fixing yeast, two 
quarts or so of lukewarm water. — Mrs. W. E. Hillerman. 

WHEY BREAD. 

Take two qu.rts of sour milk, buttermilk preferred, let come 
to a boil, then cool and strain, using only the whey. Set the 
sponge at night, using a cake of any good yeast. In the morn- 
ing add two tablespoons sugar and one of salt (scant), lard the 
size of a walnut, then mix it up with flour very stiflf. Do not 
add any water. Set aside until ready to mold, put in pans and 
let rise. Bake from forty-five to fifty minutes. — Mrs. Isaiah 
Jones. 

NUT BREAD. 

One Dint milk heated and cooled, to this add one-fourth cake 



56 FRKSBYTEK IAN COOKBOOK 

compressed yeast, two teaspoons sugar, one teaspoon butter; 
melted, one-half- teaspoon salt. White flour to make a batter. 
Set at night; the next morning add one cup of nuts chopped, not 
too fine, whole wheat flour to make a stiff batter. When this is 
light make in loaf, using care not to get too light. — Mrs. Howard 
Dunlap. 

ENGLISH LOAF. 

One tin cup of yeast, one pint of sweet milk, one cup of 
shortening, four eggs, two cups of brown sugar, two pounds of 
raisins, two teaspoons cinnamon. Add flour to make it so you 
can work it, let rise until light, work out into loaves and let 
rise again. This will make five loaves. Bake an hour and a 
half. — Mrs. George Culbertson. 

SPICE BREAD. 

Dough for one loaf bread, one coffee cup brown sugar, one- 
half teacup butter or lard, one cup sweet milk, one tablespoon 
cinnamon, one tablespoon cloves, one nutmeg, one coffee cup 
currants or raisins; make into two loaves not quite as stiff as 
bread. Let rise twice, bake longer than bread. — Mrs. Nellie 
Pemshon Morgan. 



r 



COFFEE BREAD. 

Enough bread sponge for ordinary loaf, two eggs, one-half 
cup sugar, one-third cup butter. Mix and work into three rolls 
and braid into flat loaf; place in a dripping pan and let rise. 
When light spread yolk of egg thickly over the top, and sprinkle 
with sugar. Bake in moderate oven same r" bread; it should 
brown in half an hour. — Mrs. H. M. Wooc_. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD. 

Made with yeast foam — Dissolve well one-half cake yeast 
foam in enough warm (not hot) water to cover it in a cup. 
Scald one tablespoon flour and add a little more flour and water 
to make a thick rising. To this, add the yeast, cover and let 
stand in a warm place from early afternoon until bedtime. Then 
put into bread pan nearly all the flour needed for the bread, and 
one heaping teaspoon of salt. Round out a hole in the flour and 
pour into it the rising and three pints of warm water. Whip 



PRESBYTERIAN COOKBOOK 67 

flour in gradually until you have a stiff sponge. Beat well, wrap 
with woolen cloth and paper and set over warm water. In the 
morning mix into hard loaf. Let rise until light, knead down 
and let rise again before mixing into loaves. Be careful not to 
get dough too stiff. 

With compressed yeast — Into three pints of quite warm water 
stir one big tablespoon salt and enough whole wheat flour to 
make a stiff batter. Add yeast cake dissolved in two tablespoons 
cold water, and enough more flour to make a thick sponge. 
Beat well for several minutes; mix into hard loaf immediately, 
kt stand in a temperature of about seventy-five degrees Fahren- 
heit until light. Mix into loaves, let rise, and bake in a moderate 
oven. — Mrs. T. E. Rankin. 

RALSTON HEALTH BREAD. 

Note — The dough must be worked as soft as can be handled; 
in no case mix a stiff dough. Take four quarts Ralston Health 
flour, three pints scalded milk, one and one-half tablespoons salt, 
one tablespoon sugar, one cake compressed yeast. First sift the 
flour into pan, then dissolve the yeast in a little of the milk and 
stir it into the flour, also stir in the sugar and salt. Then pour 
the milk in a little at a time, stirring with the hand until well 
kneaded. Set in a warm place out of draughts until it is light 
enough to put into loaves. When set at night it is ready for 
loaves in the morningj. Let come to the top of ordinary pan and 
bake one and one-fourth hours. A small piece of butter can be 
used in bread if desired. — Topeka Milling Company. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

One quart white flour, one pint graham flour, one pint corn 
meal, not quite one quart sour milk, one pint Orleans molasses, 
two tablespoons brown sugar, one teacup raisins, a little salt. 
Dissolve three teaspoons soda in boiling water, then put in mo- 
lasses, beat well, then pour over flour and sugar and salt, then 
put in sour milk; stir thoroughly. Steam three hours, then 
put in oven ten minutes. — Mrs. T. L. Ryan. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups corn meal, one and one-half cups flour, two cups 
molasses, one and one-half cups sweet milk, one teaspoon soda, 
a little salt. Steam four hours. — Mrs. W. D. Ewing. 



58 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

BROWN BREAD. 

Four cups rye meal, two cups corn meal, one tablespoon soda, 
one teaspoon salt, one cup molasses, four cups sour milk. Mix 
and sift dry ingredients, then add molasses and sour milk grad- 
ually, beating thoroughly so that there will be no lumps. Put 
into a well greased, tightly covered mold. Steam six hours and 
dry in oven a few minutes. — Elizabeth Frances Greene, Drexel 
Institute, Philadelphia. 

BROWN BREAD. 

One and one-half cups graham flour, one-half cup wheat 
flour, one cup corn meal, one-half cup molasses, one teaspoon 
salt, one teaspoon soda, one and two-thirds cups sweet milk. 

Directions — Mix dry ingredients and sift. Dissolve soda in 
milk, add molasses and milk to dry ingredients and stir until 
well mixed. Turn into buttered mold and steam two hours. — 
Mrs. Nelson Cheney. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups of graham flour, two cups of corn meal,, two and 
one-half cup buttermilk, one-half cup molasses, one teaspoon 
soda, a little salt. Steam three and one-half hours. — Mrs. C. B. 
Graves. 

ROLLS. 

One pint new milk, two tablespoons lard, two tablespoons 
sugar, two tablespoons yeast, one heaping teaspoon salt. Put the 
lard, sugar and salt in the milk and warm sufficient to melt the 
lard; when cool enough, add the yeast and fiour enough to make 
a stiff sponge. Beat the sponge well when light, knead until 
fine and elastic, being careful not to get too stiff. When light, 
mold into rolls or cut with small buscuit cutter. If wanted for 
dinner, make the sponge the night before; if for supper, in the 
morning. — H. Davenport. 

BROWN BREAD WITH RAISINS AND NUTS. 

One quart white flour sifted, one quart graham flour sifted, 
one quart sour milk, or buttermilk, if sour, one teaspoon salt, 
two tablespoons brown sugar, one pint Orleans molasses, three 
teaspoons soda, one pound seeded raisins, not chopped, or one 



PKESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 59 

pound chopped nuts. Dissolve soda in four tablespoons boiling 
water and beat in molasses, add flour, sugar, salt and the sour 
milk; beat well then add raisins or nuts and beat hard about 
four minutes. Fill eight, one pound bakinx powder cans half full, 
place lids on loosely and set in large pan boiling water. Boil 
three hours, remove lids from cans and cook in oven fifteen 
minutes. Remove from cans while hot. — Mrs. Ida Moore Irwin. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Three cups graham flour, not sifted, one pint sour milk, two- 
thirds cup Orleans molasses, one teaspoon soda. Bake three- 
fourths of an hour in slow oven. — Mrs. W. A. Randolph. 

GRAHAM GEMS— SMALL. 

One cup sour milk, pinch salt, one small teaspoon soda, one 
heaping tablespoon white flour and enough unsifted graham to 
make a light, firm batter. Place tins on the stove and heat hot 
while making the batter. With lump of butter on fork, three- 
tined steel is the best, go around the sides of the tins, leave a 
little sizzling in the bottom. Without stirring cut lumps big 
enough for each tin and bake on upper grate in hot oven fifteen 
or twenty minutes. Makes thirteen small size. — Mrs. H. M. 
Woods. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

One cup sour milk, two eggs, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon 
sugar, one teaspoon melted butter, one-half teaspoon salt. Gra- 
ham flour to make a thin abtter, beat well and bake in gem pans 
in quick oven. This will make one dozen. — Mrs. W. F. Cole. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

One cup of white flour, one cup of graham flour unsifted, two 
cups of sweet milk, two teaspoons baking powder, one egg well 
beaten, one tablespoon butter or lard, melted, one teaspoon 
sugar, one-half teaspoon salt. — Mrs. George Newman. 

BREAD GEMS. 

One pint bread crumbs soaked and rubbed through a col- 
ander, (have one pint when it is through), two cups sweet milk, 
two cups white flour, three teaspoons baking powder, one-fourth 



60 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

cup melted butter, two eggs, well beaten. Bake in gem pans. 
Nice to serve with fresh fish for breakfast. — Mrs. William B. 
Irwin. 

GRAHAM CRACKERS. 

Three cups graham flour, one cup white flour, one-half cup 
sugar, two-thirds cup shortening, three teaspoons baking pow- 
der, a little salt Mix with sweet milk, roll thin, bake thor- 
oughly. — Mrs. G. L. Bontecou. 

CORN BREAD. 

Two eggs well beaten, one cup sweet milk, one tablespoon 
melted butter, one teaspoon salt, two teaspoons sugar, one and 
one-half cups corn meal, one-half cup wheat flour, one teaspoon 
baking powder. — Mrs. Jessie Giersch. 

SOUTHERN CORN BREAD. 

Put one pint of milk into a double boiler; when hot stir in one 
cup of white granulated corn meal. Cook slowly for five min- 
utes. Take from fire, add a tablespoon of butter, half a tea- 
spoon salt, and when cold add the yolks of four eggs, then the 
well beaten whites. Turn into a baking dish and bake in a 
quick oven for half an hour. — Mrs. Charles Kirkwood. 

SOUTHERN EGG CORN BREAD. 

Over one pint of corn meal pour one quart of boiling water, 
and boil five minutes, stirring constantly. Add one tablespoon 
melted butter, two well beaten eggs, one teaspoon salt, one cup 
cold water, one cup sweet milk. Pour mixture into cups and 
bake in a slow oven for thirty minutes. To be served in cups 
and eaten with a spoon. — Lura Baker Brown, Kansas City, Mis- 
souri. 

CORN BREAD. 

Two cups corn meal, one cup flour, one large tablespoon 
sugar, one teaspoon baking powder, two eggs, well beaten, butter 
size of an egg, a little salt, two cups cold water. — Mrs. J. P. 
Ross. 

BEATEN BISCUIT. 

One quart flour, one small teacup lard, pinch salt, sweet milk 



c 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 61 

sufificient to make a stiff dough. Beat with the broad end of a 
flat iron until dough is light and blisters. Roll thin and stick 
each biscuit with a fork. Bake in rather hot oven. — Mrs. O. B. 
Hardcastle. 

TEA BISCUIT. 

One quart flour, two tablespoons shortening, three teaspoons 
baking powder, one-half teaspoon salt. Mix with enough cold 
sweet milk to make as soft a dough as can be rolled. Roll on a 
floured board until it is about one-half inch thick. Have ready 
one cup of soft, but not melted butter. Spread this over the 
dough and sprinkle two tablespoons of sugar over the butter. 
Now roll the dough as for a jelly roll. Now, with a sharp 
knife slice all into biscuits one-half inch thick. Place in floured 
pan, leaving space between biscuits to allow for rising. Bake 
in a very quick oven. Delicious. — Lura Baker Brown. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUITS. 

One quart flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one teaspoon 
sugar, one teaspoon salt, three tablespoons butter or lard, milk 
enough to make a soft dough. — Mrs. William Huestis. 

BISCUITS. 

Take four level cups of flour, two heaping teaspoons of 
baking powder, and a level teaspoon salt. Sift these well to- 
gether. Add to this a heaping tablespoon of lard. Mix with 
milk. — Laura Kirkwood. 

GOOD BISCUITS. V^ 

Sift together two cups of flour, two teaspoons baking pow- 
der, and a little salt. Into this rub one tablespoon butter or 
lard. With a spoon stir in enough milk to make a very soft 
dough. Bake in a quick oven. — Mrs. Eleanor R. Christian. 

BISCUITS. 

One quart flour, three heaping teaspoons baking powder, 
pinch salt, two large tablespoons lard. Mix into soft dough with 
either sweet milk or water. — Mrs. W. H. Cool. 

SODA BISCUIT. 

One pint of buttermilk or sour milk, one quart of flour, lard 



62 PKESBYTEKIANCOOKBOOK 

size of an egg; sift through flour one kvel teaspoon soda, one 
heaping', teaspoon baking powder. Bake in a quick oven. — Mrs. 
Will VVayman. 

/- GOOD FRIDAY BUNS. 

( Scald three cups milk in a double boiler, then place in a 
large mixing bowl with one cup sugar. When lukewarm, not 
hot, add half a yeast cake which has been softened in two table- 
spoons of warm water. If the buns are started in the morning, 
instead of at night, use a whole yeast cake and they should be 
ready to bake by noon. Stir in enough flour to make a thick 
batter, cover and put in a warm room. The rising process can 
be hastened by setting the bowl in a pan of hot water. When 
the batter is double in bulk, cream half a cup of sugar and butter 
and add to the sponge, with half a teaspoon nutmeg and one 
cup of currants. Next stir in flour until stiff enough to knead. 
Knead five minutes and let rise again. Cut into pieces as large 
as an egg, knead and roll into round biscuits. When they are 
well risen, bake in a hot oven for twenty-five minutes and they 
will be brown, crusty and delicious. If a glaze is desired, brush 
them with the white of an egg and water just before taking from 
the oven. — Mrs. L. O. Priest. 

CINNAMON BUNS. 

One cup milk, three-eighths cup sugar, one egg, one-fourth 
teaspoon salt, one-fourth yeast cake, one-fourth cup water, two 
cups flour. Make a sponge; beat thoroughly, and when light, 
add sufficient flour to knead. Knead and let rise until double 
its former bulk. Roll one-fourth inch thick, spread with one- 
half cup butter, (softened), one cup currants, two tablespoons 
cinnamon, one cup brown sugar. Roll as a jelly roll and cut 
into slices one inch thick. Place in well greased muffin pans, with 
cut surface at top and bottom. When very light bake in mod- 
erate oven thirty to forty minutes. If the buns are taken from 
the oven twice while baking, a, little molasses or brown sugar 
dissolved in water and added to each bun they will be much 
better. — Elizabeth Frances Greene, Drexel Institute, Philadelphia. 

RUSKS. 

One pint warm milk, one-half cup yeast, flour enough for a 
sponge. When light, melt together one cofifee cup butter, one 



PBE8BYTERIANCOOKBOOK 63 

and three-fourths cups sugar, nearly one-half teaspoon soda, 
flour enough to mold. When light, mold with as little handling 
as possible into cakes and let rise again. Wash over with sweet- 
ened cream and bake. — Mrs. G. W. DeCamp. 

RUSKS. 

Set the rusks at night, taking one pint of sweet milk and 
making a spongue as for bread, adding salt and flour 
and either a cake of compressed yeast or old fashioned 
potato yeast. In the morning set on the stove a pint 
of milk to which has been added about one-fourth 
h-eaping saucer white sugar; work all these ingredients well into 
a loaf, setting in a warm place to rise. When very light, roll out 
and cut into small cakes about one and one-half inches thick. 
When risen sufficiently, bake a light brown. — Mrs. W. H. Hub- 
bard. 

SALLY LUNN MUFFINS. 

Two cups flour, two eggs, one cup milk, one teaspoon sugar, 
one heaping teaspoon baking powder, one-half teaspoon salt, one 
tablespoon butter. Sift the flour, salt, baking powder and sugar 
together; beat the -eggs until very light lemon color, add them to 
the milk, then sift the flour and other ingredients into the milk 
and eggs. Melt the butter and add to the mixture. Put into muf- 
fin tins and bake for twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. — Fran- 
ces Evans Brown. 

RICE MUFFINS. 

Dilute one cup of boiled rice with one cup of milk, one tea- 
spoon of melted butter, yolks of two eggs, one and one-half 
cups flour, one tablespoon sugar, one-half teaspoon salt, one 
heaping teaspoon of baking powder. Fold the beaten whites of 
the eggs in carefully; pour into hot gem pans and bake in a 
quick oven. — Mrs. T. P. Stephenson. 

DAINTY CORN MEAL MUFFINS. 

Beat togehter in order mentioned, two eggs, two tablespoons 
of white sugar, one and one-half cups sweet milk, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, a cup of corn meal, two cups flour sifted with two 
heaping teaspoons of baking powder and one tablespoon of 



64 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

melted butter. Bake in hot gem pans for twenty minutes in hot 
oven. Water may be used instead of milk. — Evelyn Wilson. 

CREAM MUFFINS. 

One pint of flour, one-half teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon 
soda, one teaspoon cream tartar, two eggs well beaten, after sep- 
arating the whites from the yolks, three-fourths cup of cream. 
Bake in hot muffin pans and serve immediately. — Mrs. G. W. 
Newman. 

CORN MEAL MUFFINS. 

One cup of corn meal, one of flour, two teaspoons of baking 
powder, one teaspoon salt, two scant tablespoons sugar, two 
eggs and sufficient sweet milk to make a thick batter. Stir the 
ingredients together, adding the milk last; beat steadily, but 
quickly for three minutes, pour in hot pans and bake for fifteen 
minutes. — Mrs. C. K. Judd. 

MUFFINS. 

Two tablespoons butter, or one each lard and butter, two 
teaspoons sugar, two eggs, two cups flour, two teaspoons baking 
powder, one cup sweet milk, one-half teaspoon salt. Beat the 
whites stiff, add yolks and beat hard. Sift flour, sugar, salt and 
baking powder and stir in lightly; then add the butter and bake 
in hot oven. — Mrs. Hutchinson, Garnett, Kansas. 

VIM MUFFINS. 

One heaping tablespoon butter or lard, two tablespoons sugar, 
one teaspoon salt, one egg, two-thirds cup milk, one cup vim, 
two- thirds cup flour, two heaping teaspoons baking powder. 
Bake twenty minutes in muffin pans. — Mrs. Lizzie B. Griffith, 
contributed by Vim Breakfast Food Company. 

CREAM MUFFINS. 

Two tablespoons butter, two tablespoons sugar, two tea- 
spoons baking powder, two cups flour, one-half teaspoon salt, 
two eggs beaten, add to them one cup milk; blend this with the 
flour, stir lightly, (not beat) bake in muffin pans. — Mrs. J. C. 
Jones. 



PRESBYTERIANCOOKBOOK 65 

WAFFLES. 

Two eggs, two cups milk, two cups flour, melted butter size 
of walnut, two teaspoons baking powder sifted through flour. — 
Mrs. George R. Jones. 

WAFFLES. 

Beat two eggs, one-half teaspoon salt, one small tablespoon 
sugar, add thr-ee cups buttermilk, or clabber milk beaten well 
with egg; add enough sifted flour to make thin batter, (or about 
two and one-half cups flour.) Two large tablespoons melted 
lard or butter, one level teaspoon soda. Beat until very light, 
put in well greased waffle irons and bake; serve with butter 
and maple syrup. — Mrs. D. C. Allen. 

GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One egg, one pint milk, one heaping tablespoon shortening, 
two teaspoons baking powder, enough flour to make a very thin 
batter. If trial cake seems tough, the batter is too thick. If 
cakes toward the last of the batter are not light put in more 
baking powder. Very good cakes can be made without milk by 
using two eggs. — Mrs. G. H. Randolph. 

WAFFLES. 

One pint sweet milk, three eggis beaten separately, two table- 
spoons melted butter, two tablespoons sugar, a little salt, three 
teaspoons baking powder. Flour enough to make a thin batter. 
Lightly fold in the beaten whites the last thing. — Mrs. C. Clark. 

GRAHAM GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One cupful graham flour, one cupful wheat flour, one table- 
spoon sugar, one-half teaspoon salt. Stir well together and add 
two eggs, separated and beaten well, one teaspoon soda, dis- 
solved in two tablespoons cold water, one pint sour milk, one 
large tablespoon melted butter. Beat well and fry as usual. 
They are much improved by frying on a soapstone griddle with- 
out any grease. — Mrs. G. W. Neweman. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Four cups sour milk, two eggs, one teaspoon salt, one tea- 



66 -PRESBYTERIANCOOKBOOK 

spoon soda, wheat flour one part, buckwheat two parts, mak- 
ing thin batter. Bake on griddle; this quantity serves six per- 
sons six small-sized cakes each. — Mrs. J. H. Rauscher. 



A 



DELICIOUS FRIED MUSH. 

One pint white corn meal, one-fourth pint flour, one quart 
boiling water, salt to taste. Sift flour and meal together and 
stir slowly, to prevent lumps, into the boiling wat-er and cook 
thoroughly. As soon as it is done, drop by spoonfuls into boil- 
ing fat and fry a light brown. This is delicious with or with- 
out syrup. — Mrs. H. E. Peach. 

MILK TOAST. 

Toast bread, dip into salted boiling water an instant, place 
in dish and pour hot milk with melted butter over it. — I. R. In- 
gram, contributed by Mrs. E. M. Forde. 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 



67 



Avery's Meat Market 



will supply your wants in their line 
reasonably and promptly 



Telephone 194 



Everything Delivered 



CLARE G. PARTRIDGE 

Hair Dressing Parlors 

Ladies in this vicinity are cordially invited to visit my hair 
dressing parlors. Electrolysis, Chiropody, Manicuring. 
Switches made from combings or cut hair. 

Over Citizens National Bank^ corner Sixth and Commercial 
Te'ephone 2505 EMPORIA, KANSAS 

Streator Metal StaLmping Company 

Manufacture the Best Carpet Sweeper Made 




THIS SWEEPER IS SOLD BY 



HMRDC/\STLE «fe K.EINYOIS 



68 



PRESBYTKRIAN COOK BOOK 



W'^ ■ ^' ) t C ) fc jfe jj^ ) 

PLYMOUTH ROCK 

PHOSPHATED 



Gelati 



me 



The most economical and convenient to use as it 



u 

« 

m 



Requires 



NO LEMONS 
NO COOKING 
NO STRAINING 



White 




Pink 



..Is Perfectly Odorless and Warranted Absolutely Pure... 



Manufactured by 

PLYMOUTH ROCK GELATINE CO. 

BOSTON, MASS. 

if jJC ^ ^ jff ^ ^ 



Vegetables 



''Oh muckle is the powerful grace that lies in herbs." 

Boil fresh young vegetables in hard water; a little salt will 
harden the water at once. Boil dried vegetables in soft water; 
a little baking powde'r will soften the water and is useful in 
freshening and making tender green vegetables that are a little 
old or not wholly fresh. A little sugar is an improvement to 
beets, turnips and squash. Cabbage, turnips, carrots, parsnips 
and beets are good boiled with fresh meats. When vegetables 
are served with salt meats, they are good boiled in the liquor 
in which the meat has been cooked; take out the meat when 
done, then cook the vegetables. 



TABLE FOR COOKING VEGETABLES. 

Boil onions, medium size, one hour. 

Green corn, twenty to twenty-five minutes. 

Peas or asparagus, twenty to twenty-five minutes. 

Potatoes, usually half an hour, if small, less time. 

Cabbage and cauliflower, twenty-five minutes to half an hour. 

Carrots and turnips, forty-five minutes when young, one hour 
or longer in winter. 

Lima beans, if young, half an hour, old, forty-five minutes. 

Beets, one hour in summer, an hour and a half and even two 
hours, if large, in winter. 

Sfring beans, if split or sliced and thin, half an hour, if only 
snapped, forty-five minutes. Regulate this time by the time the 
meat will be done. 



SAUCE FOR VEGETABLES. 

Three tablespoons butter, three tablespoons flour, one tea- 
spoon salt, two cups milk, or one cup milk and one cup vege- 
table stock, white pepper. Melt the butter, add flour and season- 



70 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

ing and stir until smooth, then add very slowly the milk which 
has been heated in a double boiler, stirring constantly, being sure 
to let the mixture come to a boil and be perfectly smooth each 
time before adding more milk. — Elizabeth Frances Greene, Drex- 
el Institute, Philadelphia. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Cut off all tough ends, tie in bunches, boil in salt water un- 
til very tender. Have ready oblong pieces of toast, one for each 
person. Butter well. Lift out bunches of asparagus, place on 
toast, cut the string, butter, salt and pepper generously. Set 
where it will keep hot. Serve on platter or on small plates. De- 
licious. — Mrs. G. H. Randolph. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Asparagus may be cooked as above, then having mixed one 
tablespoon butter, cup of milk and tablespoon flour together 
until creamy, stir this into the asparagus, adding salt and pep- 
per to taste; simmer a few minutes, serve hot. — Mrs. N. B. Hay- 
nes. 

FRIED APPLES. 

Take sour apples, wash and core them and cut in slices about 
one-half inch thick. Fry two or three slices of bacon and then 
lay the sliced apples in the pan of hot grease. Fry until they are 
delicately browned. Serve with pork chops or bacon. — Mrs. G. 
W. Newman. 

STRING BEANS. 

String, snap, and soak about half an hour in salted water, then 
put into a saucepan two quarts of boiling water, a heaping table' 
spoon salt, and a small bit of soda for every quart of beans. Put 
in the beans and keep them boiling quickly until tender. Just 
before taking up, stir in one tablespoon butter rubbed into two 
tablespoons flour and half a pint sweet cream; pepper to taste. 
— Mrs. N. B. Haynes. 

BAKED BEANS. 

Take twenty-five cents' worth of navy beans, soak over night. 
Wash well, cover with cold water, set on back of stove and cook 



PKESHYTEU IAN COOKBOOK 71 

slowly for one hour, drain, cover with warm water, (or better 
still have some beef stock), add one-half pound breakfast bacon 
cut in slices; kt simmer till the beans are getting just a little 
tender but will still rattle on baking pan when poured in, then 
add one cup sugar, two tablespoons salt, teaspoon pepper, one 
teaspoon mustard, one-half cup catsup. Have enough water to 
cover the beans nicely, add more as needed, put in oven and bake 
two hours. Will serve forty.— Mrs. W. H. Cool. 

BAKED BEANS. 

Soak several hours in cold water one quart of beans; pour 
this off and cover with fresh water, add half teaspoon soda, and 
let them boil a few minutes. Pour this ofif and cover again with 
fresh water with a small piece of salt pork; boil till tender. Put 
them in deep dish and add a little salt, pepper and a half tea- 
spoon of extract of Jamaica ginger, a heaping tablespoon of 
sugar. Place pork on top, and have them very moist. Bake in 
a slow oven several hours. The beans will be whole but very 
tender. — Mrs. M. E. Stowe. 



LIMA OR BUTTER BEANS. 

One pint fresh beans, boil about forty minutes in slightly 
salted water. Drain off water, then add cup of hot milk or 
cream, a small piece of butter and pepper to taste; let simmer 
a few minutes and serve. Ripe lima beans may be soaked over 
night and then cooked same as green ones. — Mrs. N. B. Haynes. 

BEETS. 

Cut off the tops but do not cut the beets in any part, not even 
the rootlets, if any should be attached, for it will cause them to 
bleed, thus injuring the flavor and color. Wash well in several 
waters, then put to cook in plenty of boiling water. Boil stead- 
ily until done. Quite young beets will require from an hour to 
an hour and a half, but older ones from three to four hours, the 
time they will require to boil tender will depend upon their age. 
Do not fail to have them thoroughly cooked for they will be 
very indigestible if underdone. The water should be replenished 
with more hot water as it boils away. Remove skins, and slice, 
serve hot with butter, salt and pepper. — Mrs. N. B. Haj^nes. 



72 prp:sbyteriancookbook 

CREAMED BEETS. 

If canned beets ar-e used, and they are large, cut in slices or 
dice them. Put in porcelain kettle; put as much vinegar over 
them as you would milk for creamed potatoes. If the vinegar 
is strong, weaken it with a little water; when this boils, put in a 
lump of butter the size of two eggs, salt to taste, two table- 
spoons sugar to a can of beets, pepper and thicken with cream 
and flour. Do not Use milk. This will serve about fourteen if 
the beets are large and have to be diced. — Mrs. Jonas Eckdall, 
Jr. 

COOKED KRAUT— (By Request.) 

Cover two quarts of kraut with hot water, adding salt if nec- 
essary, a pepper pod and small slice of bacon or salt pork. Cook 
until very tender, (about three hours), drain, and serve with 
baked spare ribs. — Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 

COOKED CABBAGE. 

Cut cabbage very fine, cook until tender, add salt, drain. For 
a whole head of cabbage add nearly one cup of vinegar, piece 
of butter, pepper to taste. — Mrs. Jennings. 

CREAMED CABBAGE— COOKED. 

Shred or chop cabbage fine, cook in clear water, enough to 
pour off some when the cabbage is tender. Then put a table- 
spoon butter in kettle to melt, dust the cabbage with flour, salt 
and pepper, add enough cream to see it as you shake the cab- 
bage down. Let it boil up and it is done. — Mrs. Carrie Ford, 
Florence. 

CREAM CABBAGE— UNCOOKED. 

Beat together the yolks of three eggs, one-half cup sugar, one- 
half cup vinegar, butter size of one egg, salt and pepper. Put the 
mixture in a saucepan and stir until it boils; then stir in one cup 
of cream. Let it boil and pour over cabbage while hot. — Mrs. 
R. B. Evans. 

COLD SLAW DRESSING. 

One egg. (Beat white, then put in yolk and mix.) One- 



FllESBYTEKIANCOOKBOOK 73 

half teaspoon sugar. Salt, cayenne pepper. One-fourth cup 
vinegar, small piece butter. Cook, stirring constantly to keep 
from getting lumpy. When cold, thin with good cream. Add a 
pinch of celery seed or salt. — Mrs. E. A. Richter. 

CREAM SLAW. 

Two quarts cabbage cut fine, one-half pint vinegar, one-half 
pint sour cream, one-fourth cup sugar, one-half teaspoon of 
flour, one egg, butter the size of a walnut. Put vinegar, sugar 
and butter in a saucepan and let boil. Mix eggs, cream and 
flour together and stir into the vinegar; boil thoroughly and 
pour over the cabbage which has been sprinkled with salt, pep- 
per and mustard.— Mrs. Thomas Cloud. 

BOILED GREEN CORN. 

Select the ears of sweet corn that are full grown; break 
through the husks to see that they are not hardened but full 
of milk. Strip the husks from the ears, picking off all threads. 
of silk; then put on to cook in a kettle of boiling water, in which 
put a little salt. Be sure there is plenty of water to cover the 
corn well, that it may not become discolored in the boiling. 
About thirty minutes will be required for boiling. When done, 
drain off the water and send corn to the table hot, closely cov- 
ered with a napkin. — Mrs. R. B. Londen. 

SCALLOPED CORN. 

One can corn, five soda crackers; roll crackers, cover bottom 
of dish with crumbs, over this a layer of corn seasoned with salt 
and pepper, then a layer of crackers and so on till the dish is 
full. On top layer put butter about size of walnut, cut in small 
bits; pour over the whole one-half pint of rich milk; bake thirty 
minutes. — Mrs. Reiber. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

One pint grated corn, two eggs well beaten, one tablespoon 
melted butter, salt and pepper to taste. Have a griddle hot; melt 
a generous piece of butter; drop in corn mixture a tablespoon at 
a time and fry until brown. Serve very hot. — Mrs. N. C. Anstead. 

FRIED GREEN SWEET CORN. 

Cut across the grain with a sharp knife, scrape out pulp. To 



74 PRESBYTERIANCOOKBOOK 

a pint of pulp add one egg well beaten, salt and pepper to taste. 
Drop spoonfuls in a little melted butter, turn as soon as brown 
on under side; brown both sides. Fry slow. — Flora Patterson, 
Carmichalk, Pennsylvania. 

BOILED CARROTS. 

Wash thoroughly, scraping the skin all ofif, put into boiling 
water in which there should be a little salt sprinkled; boil un- 
til tender; drain, cut lengthwise; put into a hot dish and sprinkle 
with pepper and bits of butter. — -Helen Haynes. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

One large head of cauliflower. Turn upside down in a basin 
of salt wat-er for fifteen or twenty minutes, ^ake out, look over 
carefully, boil in clear water for thirty minutes. Pour water ofif, 
season with salt, pepper, butter or cream, vinegar half cup if 
liked. — Mrs. A. A. Allen, contributed by Mrs. Haynes. 

STUFFED ONIONS. 

Boil good-sized onions till tender, then scrape out the inside. 
This part of the onion is chopped fine and mixed with equal 
parts of chopped meat, a quarter spoonful salt and a little pep- 
per, little butter and few soft bread crumbs. Put a spoonful of 
the mixture in each onion. Place in the oven and bake fifteen 
minutes. — Mrs. Jay Commons. 

TINY GREEN ONIONS. 

Get onions a little larger than a lead pencil and cook and 
serve as asparagus. Wash, drop in boiling salted water, cook 
ten minutes; drain, place on toast, pour over cream sauce flav- 
ored with parsley. — Mrs. T. P. Stephenson. 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 

Cut the tops from large mild green peppers, carefully remove 
seeds and let the shells lie in hot water five minutes, then fill 
with any kind of chopped cold meat, well seasoned and not too 
dry; tie on the covers and place the stufifed peppers in a bak- 
ing pan, half cover with water, to which salt and bits of butter 
lave been added, and bake one hour. Turn once or twice. — 
Ars. Gable. 



PRESBYTER IAN COOK BOOK 70 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes into stewpan, salt and pepper 
to taste. Add a dust of flour, and butter the size of a walnut, and 
cover well with sweet cream. Place a lid upon the stewpan and 
bring potatoes to a boil. Serve very hot. — Mrs. L. A. Lowther. 

BROWNED POTATOES WITH A ROAST. 

About three-quarters of an hour before taking up your roast, 
peel medium-sized potatoes, boil till partly done, then arrange 
them in the roasting pan about the meat, basting them with the 
drippings at the same time you do the meat, browning them 
evenly. Serve hot with the meat. — Mrs. F. L. Gillette, Ameri- 
can Cook Book. 

POTATO PUFFS. 

One pint cold mashed potatoes, four eggs, one small teaspoon 
salt; have the potatoes in one end of the dish and break the 
eggs in the other. With a common steel fork break or crumble 
the potatoes into the eggs, and do not beat. Fry in hot lard, 
enough to little more than cover the bottom of frying pan, 
dipping by small spoonfuls. Turn over when they are nicely 
browned; serve as fast as made. — Mrs. H. M. Woods. 

FANCY BAKED POTATOES. 

Select large potatoes and of even size; bake and when well 
done cut lengthwise and remove inside, mash thoroughly; put 
on the fire with half an ounce of butter and one ounce of grated 
cheese for every four potatoes; add milk, pepper and salt as for 
mashed potatoes; fill the potato shells, and put them in a hot 
oven and brown. — Mrs. Dan Weeks. 

POTATO BALLS. 

Take small potatoes of uniform size, boil with jackets on, 
peel, drop in hot lard like doughnuts. Drain on paper, sprinkle 
with salt. Garnished with green will make a dish pretty as it is 
good. Will keep hot nearly an hour. — Mrs. G. H. Randolph. 

POTATO O'BRIEN. 

Parboil one dozen potatoes; when cool cut in dice. Into a 



76 PRESBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 

baking dish put alternate layers of the potato and the cream 
dressing; on the dressing sprinkle minced parsley and pamien- 
to, also a few drops of onion juice. When pan is full, put in 
oven and brown; this will make a quart and is delicious. 

Cream Dressing — One pint milk, one tablespoon flour, large 
lump butter, salt and cayenne pepper. Mrs. W. E. Day, Cincin- 
nati, contributed by Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 

POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

One quart cold boiled potatoes cut into cubes, three table- 
spoons of butter, three tablespoons of flour, one pint milk, 
half teaspoon salt, pepper, a dash of cayenne pepper, two table- 
spoons grated cheese, half cup cracker crumbs, one teaspoon 
chopped parsley; heat milk, rub flour, butter and pepper to a 
smooth paste, add to hot milk, then grated cheese and cracker 
crumbs, then parsley. Cook till smooth. Put half of the pota- 
toes in a buttered baking dish, a layer of sauce, the rest of po- 
tato, then sauce. Cover with butter and cracker crumbs. Bake 
in a quick oven ten minutes. — Mrs. D. D. Williams. 

POTATO CHIPS. 

Select large smooth potatoes, pare and slice thin on a slaw 
cutter, put the sliced potatoes in cold water into which is dis- 
solved two teaspoons of powdered alum to a gallon of water, let 
them soak one hour. Then taking them up between the hands, 
press out as much water as possible, spread them out on a 
cloth, placing; another cloth over them, press it down gently to 
absorb all moisture. Have lard as hot as for doughnuts; take a 
handful of slices, dropping them into the lard rapidly, one at a 
time. When a light brown remove from lara and put in a col- 
ander to drain. Let them remain in the colander until the next 
lot is ready to come out of the lard, then spread them on brown 
paper, salting slightly. If they are not to be used until the next 
day after making, put them in the oven and heat just before 
serving. — Mrs. J. A. Sankey. 

ESCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Wash and pare the potatoes and cut them into thin slices. 
Put a layer into a buttered baking dish, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper and dredge with a little flour. Repeat until the dish is 



PKESBYTBU IAN COOKBOOK 77 

nearly full, then add hot milk to cover. Bake an hour or more, 
according to the heat of the oven, which must be moderate. — 
"Brown Book of Boston," contributed by Hel-en Haynes. 

MARYLAND SWEET POTATOES. 

Pare enough potatoes to serve eight persons. Put to cook with 
about one pint of water and teaspoon of salt. Boil twenty 
minutes, then add one cup sugar (light brown) and one-third 
cup butter. Cover for a few minutes long-er until sugar and 
butter are thoroughly melted. Now arrange in baking dish, pour- 
ing the liquor over them; there should be a good cupful, if not 
add enough water to make it so. Put in moderate oven and 
bake, without cover, from one-half to three-quarters of an hour. 
Serve with the dressing over them. Nice to serve with fried 
chicken. — Mrs. L. C. Payne. 

SOUTHERN COOKED POTATOES. 

Boil sweet potatoes until tender. Peel and slice, place in 
layers with butter and brown sugar. Bake in quick oven fif- 
teen minutes. Serve very hot. — Mrs. Charles Lyon. 

SCALLOPED SWEET POTATOES. 

Peel and cut the potatoes into slices less than half an inch 
thick. Pack into a pudding dish, strewing each layer with salt, 
pepper and a very little sugar and bits of butter. When all are in, 
pour in four tablespoons boiling water in which one teaspoon of 
butter has been melted. Cover the surface with fine crumbs, 
pepper and salt and drop dots of butter thickly over it. Bake 
covered, for thirty minutes, then brown. — Woman's Home 
Companion. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Shell the peas and wash in cold water; put in boiling water 
enough to cover them well and keep them from burning; boil 
from twenty minutes to half an hour, when the liquor should be 
nearly boiled out; season with pepper and salt and a good allow- 
ance of butter; serve very hot. May be served with cream 
sauce. — Mrs. F. L. Gillette, American Cook Book. 

ESCALLOPED PEAS. 

Drain the water from one can of peas; to the peas add a gen- 



78 PKESBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 

erous amount of cream sauce; put in a bake dish a layer of bread 
crumbs, then a layer of peas with sauce; salt and pepper, then 
a layer of bread crumbs and so on till the dish is filled, covering 
the top with bread crumbs and bits of butter. Bake about 
twenty-five minutes. — Ada L. Montgomery, contributed by Mrs. 
N. B. Haynes. 

EGG PLANT. 

Boil until tender, mash and add cream and butter; salt and 
pepper to taste. Mix in a little rolled cracker to give consist- 
ency, and fry in hot butter as you would oysters. — Mrs. S. B. 
Riggs. 

SPANISH DISH. 

Take the small spaghetti, break into small piec-es, cook until 
tender, drain water off. Have one or more onions in frying pan 
with butter, brown lightly, add spaghetti to onions with cup of 
tomatoes, fresh or cooked, season with salt and cayenne pep- 
per to taste. — Mrs. F. A. Griffin. 

HUBBARD SQUASH. 

Saw off top of Hubbard squash, remove seeds and steam un- 
til tender. Scoop out pulp and mash in hot dish, season to taste 
with salt, pepper and butter and return to shell. Score top with 
knife. — Mrs. A. S. Newman. 

SALSIFY. 

Wash and scrape the oyster plant carefully. Stew gently 
until tender. Drain off the water and add butter and cream. Salt 
and pepper to taste. — Mrs. S. B. Riggs. 

HOW TO BOIL RICE. 

Wash thoroughly one cup of rice in two waters. Add slowly 
to two quarts of water and one tablespoon of salt. Cover 
tightly and cook rapidly for about twenty minutes without 
stirring. Pour rice into a colander and drain, rinse with a quart 
of cold water, drain, set it in oven until dry. — Hannah M. Ed- 
wards. 

SAVORY RICE. 

One cup rice, two teaspoons salt, three quarts boiling water, 



PRESBYTERIAN COOKBOOK 79 

two tablespoons butter, one largje slice onion, two and one-half 
cups tomato pulp with a little juice, pepper, one teaspoon salt, 
three tablespoons grated cheese, one cup buttered crumbs; cook 
rice in boiling water to which the two teaspoons salt has been 
added; when the grains are soft, but not broken, drain and dry 
the rice, melt the butter in a saucepan and brown with the onion 
in this; remove the onion, place the rice in the saucepan and 
stir until brown. Have hot in another pan the tomatoes which 
have been cooked twenty minutes, and rubbed smooth, but not 
through a sieve. Season with salt and pepper, and stir into rice. 
Sprinkle with cheese, place in a butt-ered baking dish, cover with 
buttered crumbs and brown in the oven. This is also nice for a 
luncheon if served in patty dishes. — Elizabeth Frances Greene, 
Drexel Institute, Philadelphia. 

RICE SPANISH. 

Three pints water, four slices bacon cut fine, two tomatoes 
or one-third can tomatoes, small red pepper, little salt. Let boil 
twenty minutes; wash one cup of rice, put in and boil until done. 
— Mrs. L. D. Jacobs, Miss Louise Evans. 

TURKISH PILAR 

One cup of stewed and strained tomatoes, one cup of stock 
highly seasoned with pepper, salt and chopped onion; when boil- 
ing add one cup of rice; stir lightly with a fork until the liquor 
is absorbed, add one-half cup of butter, set in double boiler and 
let cook one hour, remove cover and let steam escape. Serve 
as a vegetable or border for any dish. — Mrs. Alfred DeLang, 
Cincinnati. 

Rice is also fine cooked in stock, one cup rice to two cups of 
stock. — Bula Gilpin. 

A NEW WAY TO COOK SPINACH. 

A delicious croquette dish is made of spinach cooked and 
chopped very fine; brown half of a small onion in a tablespoon of 
butter, remove the onion and put the spinach in, stirring con- 
stantly, and adding gradually one scant tablespoon flour, same 
of bread crumbs, one-half cup grated cheese, yolks of two eggs 
beaten, one-fourth cup milk, salt and nutmeg. Turn out on a 
floured board and with floured hands mold the mixture into 



80 PRESBYTER IAN COOKBOOK 

croquettes. Cook in very hot deep fat, and after draining, dust 
with grated cheese. — Tillie DeCamp. 

MASHED TURNIPS. 

Prepare by peeling and washing, cut into slices crosswise and 
lay in fresh cold water for a few minutes; put into salted boil- 
ing water and cook steadily until done, then drain and mash, sea- 
son with pepper, salt and butter. It is better to mash on the side 
of the stove in the pan or kettle in which they were cooked that 
they may be served hot. — M. B. H. 

TO PEEL TOMATOES. 

Put the tomatoes into a frying basket and plunge them into 
hot water for three or four minutes, drain and peel. Another 
way is, to place them in a flat baking tin and set them in a hot 
oven about five minutes. This loosens the skin so that they read- 
ily slip off. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Put into a buttered baking dish slices of tomatoes, and slices 
of onions, and mangoes over this, and then a layer of cracker 
crumbs; season all with salt and pepper; continue this till the 
dish is full, dotting the top layer of crumbs with butter, and 
bake in the oven for one hour. Canned tomatoes and pimentoes 
can be used for fresh ones in winter. — Mrs. D. F. Longenecker. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Remove inside of nice large tomatoes; substitute equal parts 
of toast bread crumbs and grated cheese. Season with salt, pep- 
per and butter. Bake one-half hour — Mrs. F. H. Betton, Kansas 
City, Missouri. 



PKESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 



81 



Special Tw^enty Cent Dinners 



Short Orders at All Hours 



The Hub Restaurant 

JOHN DUDLEY. Proprietor 



414 Commercial Street 



Emporia, KarvsaLS 



iglehehkt:^ 



AWARDED 

GRAND PRIZE 

ST. LOUIS 

WORLD'S FAIR 

1904 



A Homemade Cake 



fo: 



Swan's 
Down 
Prepared 
Cake Flour 



11 h\iii 
A sun 

K1SIN(, 
HOLK 



Makes Delicious Angel Food and Other Cakes. 

YOU cannot fail to make good cakes 
with this Hour. Not a self-rising flour, 
but good all the vear 'round. ENDORSED 
BY BEST TEACHERS OF COOKERY 
Package contains flour for 12 cakes. 

SOLD BY THE BEST GROCERS EVERYWHERE. 

This article will enable you to serve 
some very attractive and delicious dain- 
ties in your home. 

INGLEHEART BROTHERS, 

EVAN8VILLE. ... INDIANA 



For 

Fancy 

Cake 

Baking 



In Your Home.., 



82 



PRKSBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 



E. P. Reed & Co. 

Shoemakers for Women 



mm 



FACTORY: Rochcslcr, N. Y. 



BRANCH OFFICES: 



Oakland, Cal. 

507=509 16th St 



Chicago, III. 

147 Fifth Ave. 



Warranted to be properly manufactured from the best mater- 
ials obtainable. Absolutely genuine, unadulterated and 
free from any harmful preservatives or coloring mat- 
ter. Therefore, the purest and best that can be 
produced complying with all Food Laws. 



BAYLES 



HIGHGRADE 



Food Products 

MADE IN ST. LOUIS. U. S. A. 

Mustards, Pickles, Mince Meat, Salad Dressing, Sauces, Vin- 
egars, Salted Peanuts, IS^ut Butter, Potted Cheese, Chip 
Potatoes, Lunch Herring, Etc. 



Salads 



To make a perfect salad there should be a spendthrift for oil, 
a miser for vinegar, a wise man for salt and a madcap to stir the 
ingredients and mix well together. — A Spanish Proverb, contri- 
buted by Miss M'Louise Jones. 

SOME GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

Salads should be perfectly fresh and served cold. 

The dressing should be added to green salads the last mo- 
ment before serving. 

All vegetables used for salads should be put in ice water two 
hours before serving. 

In cutting celery, chicken and meats of all kinds, it will be 
found preferable to use sharp scissors instead of a chopping 
knife. 

"Marinade" meats and fish before using for salads. To do 
this, take one part olive oil and three parts vinegar with salt and 
pepper to taste; stir a very small quantity into meat and let 
stand for two hours. Then drain and add regular dressing just 
before serving. 

Flavored or scented vinegars may be made at home and add 
greatly to the ordinary salad dressing. Taragon vinegar is 
vinegar in which tarragon leaves have been steeped or allowed 
to stand. Half dozen cloves of garlic may be mashed and 
added to a pint of vinegar. Celery seed may be crushed and 
added to vinegar. These may be kept in separate bottles, and 
lend variety, which it will be remembered is the spice of life. 

Mayonnaise dressing separates when too much salt has been 
added or put in while eggs are hot, or when the oil is added too 
fast at first. 

All meats and fish salad should be served with a mayonnaise 
dressing; all vegetable salads with French dressing. The two 
exceptions are tomato and celery, which are equally nice with 
mayonnaise. 



84 PRKSBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Cut cold boiled chicken or remnants ot roast chicken in one- 
half inch cubes. Cover with French dressing and let stand one 
hour or more; then add an equal quantity of celery which has 
■ been washed; separate, cut in small pieces, chilled in ice water, 
drained and dried in a towel. Just before serving moisten with 
mayonnaise dresing. Garnish with hard boiled eggs, capers and 
celery tips. — Mrs. H. C. Whitley. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

One teaspoon mustard, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon pow- 
dred sugar, a few grains cayenne, yolks two eggs, two table- 
spoons lemon juice, two tablespoons vinegar, one.and one-half cup 
olive oil. Mix dry ingredienes, add egg yolks and when well mixed 
add one-half teaspoon vinegar, setting bowl in pan of ice water. 
Have the oil thoroughly chilled and add gradually at first drop 
by drop and stir constantly; as mixture thickens thin with vin- 
egar or lemon juice. Add oil and vinegar or lemon alternately 
until all is used, stirring constantly. If oil is added too fast, mix- 
ture will curdle. A smooth consistency may be restored by tak- 
ing yolk of another egg and adding curdled mixture slowly to it. 
A silver fork, small wooden spoon or Dover egg beater may be 
used as preferred. As mayonnaise soon liquefies when added 
to meat or vegetables it should not be added till just before 
serving time. — Mrs. H. C. Whitley. 

MRS. RORER'S CHICKEN SALAD. 
Clean and truss a chicken; throw into boiling water, add one 
onion sliced, a bay leaf, twelve cloves and a blade of mace. Bring 
to boiling point and boil rapidly five minutes; then push the pot 
to back of stove where it cannot boil. This will insure the dark 
meat being almost as white as the meat of the breast. When 
chicken is tender, remove and cool. To prepare it for salad, cut 
in half inch cubes, removing all fat and skin; to each quart 
sprinkle over a tablespoon lemon juice and stand aside. At 
serving time mix with two-thirds as much celery cut in small 
pieces; dust with teaspoon salt and salt spoon white pepper. Mix 
with mayonnaise and serve on lettuce leaves. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Heat one quart of tomatoes and strain, using one pint of 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 85 

juice. Soak one-half box gelatine in enough cold water to cover, 
until soft. Then pour over it the pint of strained juice, very hot. 
Add a little sugar, salt, pepper and a dash of cayenne. Put in 
little molds a few peas, very small bits of celery and a few 
chopped nuts. Then pour the hot salad over, filling molds as full 
as it is desired to serve individually. When cold turn out on 
lettuce leaves and serve with salad dressing. — Mrs. William 
Burgett Irwin. 

HAM SALAD. 

Chop fine half pound ham and three good-sized f)ickles, two 
hard boiled eggs; mix together with salad dressing, adding a 
pinch of celery salt. This is fine. — Contributed by Mrs. John 
Swearingen. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Cook one quart tomatoes with one-half teaspoon salt, one- 
eighth teaspoon pepper, for twenty minutes. Strain. Add three 
tablespoons granulated gelatine which has been soaked in one- 
half cup cold water; stir in juice of two oranges and twobunches 
of celery diced. Pour into molds and serve on lettuce leaf with 
mayonnaise. — Mrs. Charles Ryan. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

One quart oysters, one small bunch celery, yolks five hard 
boiled eggs, two tablespoons olive oil or butter, one teaspoon 
each salt, pepper and made mustard, one-half cup vinegar. Rub 
the hard boiled yolks with the seasoning and beat in the vin- 
egar slowly. Drain the oysters and cut in small pieces with sharp 
knife; cut celery in bits, mix with one-half the dressing. Pour 
the rest over the salad, garnish with olives, or arrange on lettuce 
leaf with spoonful dressing on top. — Mrs. H. E. Wilson. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

One can cove oysters chopped moderately fine, seven hard 
boiled eggs, reserve two for garnish, seven medium-sized pickles 
chopped fine; the yolks of the five eggs mixed evenly with three 
tablespoons melted butter, the whites chopped fine, two tea- 
spoons mustard wet with half cup vinegar, three-fourths teaspoon 
celery seed. Mix well. This will keep two or three days on 



80 PBESBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 

ice and will serve twelve people. It is served on lettuce leaves, 
or in the mango pepper cases, either red or green. — Mrs. Jonas 
Eckdall, Jr. , 

COLD SLAW. 

One-half head medium-sized cabbage chopped fine, one-half 
cup thick sour cream, well beaten, one teaspoon salt, three table- 
spoons sugar, one-third cup vinegar. Mix all together and then 
pour over cabbage, mixing thoroughly. — Belle Murray. 

TOMATO SALAD, HALF MOURNING. 

Peel the tomatoes, cover closely, and set aside in a cool place 
to become chilled. For the dressing beat the yolk of an egg, 
add one-fourth teaspoon each of salt and paprika, then two 
tablespoons vinegar, and when well mixed, beat in one cup of 
olive oil a teaspoon or more at a time. Use a Dover egg beater. 
When ready to set aside, beat in one or two truffles chopped 
fine. This quantity of dressing will serve twelve. In pur- 
chasing truffles those brushed rather than peeled cost less and 
are just as good in quality as those that have been peeled. — Mrs. 
Dan Weeks. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Soak one box of gelatine in one cup cold water for one-half 
hour; add one quart boiling water and stir until dissolved. Add 
the juice of six oranges and three lemons, six bananas sliced thin, 
one pound English walnuts chopped fine, and two cups of sugar. 
Set away in a cool place until the gelatine sets. — Frances Alex- 
ander. 

NUT SALAD. 

Two cups apples chopped, one cup walnuts chopped, one-half 
cup sugar, one-half pint cream, whipped until stiff. Add two 
tablespoons sugar to cream and stir a small portion into salad, 
reserving the rest for top, after putting in dish. — Mrs. Brice 
Thompson. 

SALMON SALAD. 

Six hard boiled eggs, one small can salmon, two cups celery 
cut fine; mix with salad dressing just before serving. — Mrs. 
Wiley, Caterer, contributed by Mrs. John Swearingen. 



PKESBYT BRIAN COOK BOOK 87 

BANANA SALAD. 

Take whole bananas from skin, roll in mayonnaise dressing, 
then in finely chopped nuts. Serve on lettuce leaf. Spoonful of 
the dressing may be added when ready to serve. — Mrs. F. A. 
Loomis. 

FRUIT SALAD, 

One box gelatine, three oranges, one-third can pineapple, 
three bananas, two bunches white grapes, seeded. Slice the 
bananas and remove sections from the orange membrane. Soak 
gelatine in one cup cold water five minutes and dissolve in 
th'ree cups boiling water. When cold add fruit, and set on ice. 
Serve with whipped cream. — Alma B. McGahey. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

One-third part celery cut fine, three good tart apples, one-half 
dozen medium-sized oranges, one large bunch white grapes, one 
can pineapple, one cup almonds cut, add maraschino cherries as 
a finish. Serve with white dressing. Will serve twelve per* 
sons. — Mrs. Mazie Wallace Dowden. 

White Dressing — In a double boiler, heat one pint white vine- 
gar and butter size of an egg. Mix together dry two tablespoons 
flour, one tablespoon white mustard, pinch of white pepper and 
salt. Add these slowly to the boiling vinegar, stirring con- 
stantly to prevent lumping. When cooked, remove from the 
stove and add the stiffly beaten whites of nine eggs, and as much 
whipped cream as desired. — Mrs. Harris. 

BEAN SALAD. 

Shred a quart of green beans, boil in salt water until tender, 
then drain. Two teaspoons sugar, a small onion, one fresh 
green cucumber, a little parsley cut fine, more salt if needed. 
Serve with a mayonnaise or French dressing. — Mrs. Kate Paul, 
with Mrs. S. I. Hubbell, Kansas City. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Take canned cherries you buy, and stone them. In place of 
the stone put a filbert meat. Serve on lettuce leaves with cream 
dressing. 

Fruit Salad — Halve green grapes and add chopped walnut 



88 PRESBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 

meats. Serve on lettuce leaves with cream dressing. — Mrs. E. M. 
Carney. 

A GREEN SALAD. 

Take lettuce and cut in long fine strips, and make into a nest 
just before serving. Soak one night, equal amount of red and 
green peppers, dry and cut in rings or pretty pieces, cut cucum- 
bers in nice shapes and red and white radishes; use two-thirds 
as much cabage as other ingredients. Use very little dressing, 
made of vinegar and oil, and mix through lightly, place in nest 
and put a little whipped cream on top. — Mrs. Cora Borton Ryder. 

ASPIC JELLY. 

This is the foundation of many delightful dishes, particularly 
for hot weather. Buy a veal marrowbone and have the hock 
left on, as that is solid gelatine. Cover with three quarts water 
and cook slowly until the meat slips from the bone, and the 
hock is a soft mass. When partly cooked, salt well, add pep- 
per, an onion, a bay leaf, celery seed or the fresh stalks, as it 
should be highly seasoned when done. Take out the meat, strain 
the liquid which should be about two quarts, add tarragon 
vinegar to taste, and put away till the next day. If it is solid 
enough to cut it is ready for use. If too soft, add the hock again 
and boil a little longer. While lukewarm it can be molded with 
nuts, meats, tomatoes or cucumbers into a great variety of 
dishes. I will give one as a suggestion: 

Aspic Cream — Melt a quart of the jelly slightly, add one 
pint cream, beaten stiff, one pint diced veal, one tablespoon 
chopped parsley. Mold, and when cold serve with green may- 
onnaise. The jelly should be clarified while warm the first day, 
with an egg shell. — Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 

WALDORF SALAD. 

Equal parts celery, English walnuts, blanched almonds, and 
apples chopped fine and mixed with salad dressing "A No. i." 

Salad Dressing, "A No. i" — Will keep several weeks in a cool 
place: Four yolks of eggs, one small cup milk or water, mix 
together. One heaping teaspoon salt, one heaping teaspoon 
sugar, one tablespoon flour, one teaspoon mustard; mix together 
smooth with a cup of strong vinegar and add to the milk and 



PRESBYTERIANCOOKBOOK 89 

eggs. Boil until it is thick and smooth, stirring constantly. Thin 
with whipped cream when wanted to use. — Mrs. Wiley, Caterer, 
Topeka, Kansas, contributed by Mrs. John Swearingen. 

LETTUCE SALAD. 
Tear two bunches of lettuce real fine. Chop one Bermuda 
onion, and one bunch of celery fine, mix and add one spoon olive 
oil, vinegar, salt and paprika to taste. — Mrs. Ola Lucas. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD. 

One can large French peas, one can asparagus tips, two stalks 
celery chopped fine, mayonnaise dressing. Boil the peas for 
half an hour, cut the asparagus tips, mix with salad dressing 
just before serving. — Miss Sue D. Holmes. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Take six good-sized boiled potatoes, boiled yesterday, add 
six eggs, picked fine in alternate layers and salt each. When 
about to serve, add the dressing. 

Salad Dressing — To one good cup vinegar use one egg, or 
two or three yolks are better, one teaspoon each salt, flour, mus- 
tard and two of sugar. While vinegar is heating, mix other in- 
gredients thoroughly with a little cold vinegar, add a little boil- 
ing vinegar, stir well and turn all into the hot vinegar; stir gently 
until it begins to thicken. Remove at once from the fire, add a 
sprinkling of celery seed, turn into earthen or glass dish and 
cover. For use, thin with milk or whipped cream. — Mrs. H. M. 
Woods. 

ASPIC JELLY. 

Two tablespoons each, carrot, onion and celery, cut in cubes. 
Two sprigs parsley, two cloves, one-half teaspoon pepper corns, 
one bay leaf, seven-eighths cup white wine vinegar, one box gela- 
tine, one quart white stock for vegetables and white meat, or, one 
quart brown stock for dark meat, juice one lemon, whites three 
eggs. Put the vegetables, seasoning with wine and vinegar, ex- 
cept two tablespoons, in a saucepan, cook eight minutes and 
strain, reserving liquid. Add gelatine to stock, then add lemon 
juice. Heat to boiling point and add strained liquid. Season 
with salt and cayenne. Beat whites of eggs slightly, add two 



90 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

tablespoons of wine vinegar and dilute with one cup hot mixture, 
stirring constantly till boiling point is reached. Place on back 
of range and let stand thirty minutes. Strain through a double 
cheese cloth placed over a fine wire strainer or a jelly bag. This 
is nice to mold diced chicken or veal in, peas or slices of cucum- 
bers. — Miss Sabra Whitley. 

TONGUE IN ASPIC. 

Cook a fresh tongue in boiling water; remove skin and roots 
and run a skewer through tip and fleshy part, thus keeping 
tongue in shape. When cool, remove skewer. Put a round pan 
in ice water, cover aspic with brown aspic, and when firm decor- 
ate with cooked carrot, turnip, beet, cut in fancy shapes, and 
parsley. When this layer of mixture is firm, put in tongue up- 
side down, adding more jelly mixture; let stand till firm and so 
continue till all is used; chill thoroughly, turn on serving dish 
and garnish around base with parsley. In making aspic jelly use 
as much liquid as the pan which is to contain molded dish will 
hold.— Miss Sabra Whitley. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

One quart shredded cabbage, one teaspoon salt, let stand for 
twenty minutes to draw water out of cabbage. Press water out, 
and pour over cabbage three tablespoons chopped fried break- 
fast bacon, hot, add teaspoon pepper, one teaspoon chopped 
onion and one teaspoon sugar. Mix thoroughly and pour over 
enough good vinegar to moisten well. — Mrs. Robert King. 

PEANUT SALAD. 

One-half h-ead small solid cabbage, one small bunch celery, 
three green cucumbers, (if possible), five cents' worth shelled 
peanuts, rolled, a little celery seed, pepper and salt to taste. 
Serve with mayonnaise. — Mrs. Nation. 

FRUIT MAYONNAISE. 

Rub together one tablespoon butter and one small teaspoon 
flour, add one small teaspoon sugar, a very small pinch salt, one 
cup rich milk, the yolks of six eggs, well beaten; cook very slow- 
ly until thick, stirring constantly; remove from fire and beat 
thoroughly, adding one good teaspoon vinegar and thin with any 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 91 

fruit juice or juice from Maraschino cherries. (Original.) Place 
mayonnaise on top of fruit, with a spoonful of whipped cream. 
^Mrs. J. M. Rhodes. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Four tablespoons butter rubbed in one large tablespoon flour, 
two tablespoons sugar, one large cup weak vinegar, one-half tea- 
spoon mustard, yolks four eggs well beaten, dash cayenne pep- 
per and salt. Mix butter and flour, add sugar, mustard, salt and 
pepper, then the vinegar which has been heated very hot. Mix all 
well and add to beaten yolks. Put all on stove and stir until 
thick. When wanted, stir with plain or whipped cream — Mrs. 
H. Parkman. 

BOILED SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of eight eggs well beaten, add one cup sugar, one table- 
spoon each mustard, black pepper and salt. One pint vinegar, 
put in double boiler; when quite thick set to cool and add one 
cup whipped cream. — Mrs. Sue Huestis. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

Put one-half teaspoon salt and some pepper in a bowl, add- 
ing gradually three tablespoons olive oil until the salt is dis- 
solved. Then add by degrees one tablespoon vinegar, stirring 
until the oil is thoroughly incorporated. — Miss DeCamp. 

BOTTLED SALAD DRESSING. 

Beat yolks eight eggs, one cup sugar, one tablespoon each, 
salt , mustard and little cayenne pepper, one-half cup cream. 
Mix thoroughly. Bring to a boiling point one-half pint vinegar, 
one cup butter and pour on mixture. Put on fire and let thicken. 
This will keep for weeks in the hottest weather. — Mrs. Wig- 
gam. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Take the yolks of two hard boiled eggs, mash, add a pinch of 
salt and pepper, one tablespoon mustard, two of vinegar, four of 
whipped cream. Pour over lettuce, cut the whites in vinegar and 
lay on top. — Mrs. M. C. Barber, Eureka Springs, Arkansas. 



92 PRESBYTEKIANCOOKBOOK 

SALAD DRESSING. 

One cup vinegar, on-e cup water, butter size of an egg, one 
tablespoon sugar, one teaspoon mustard, one teaspoon salt, one- 
half teaspoon cayenne pepper, yolks of two eggs. Mix the 
dry ingredients together and stir into the heated water, vinegar 
and butter. Strain all after it is cooked thick. Lastly add 
cream. — Mrs. Morrow, New York, contributed by Miss Hannah 
Edwards. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of eight eggs beaten until thick, one cup melted butter, 
add one pint boiling vin-egar; mix one-half cup sugar, one tea- 
spoon each salt, black pepper and mustard. Add one cup sweet 
cream. Place in pan of hot water and stir until thick. — Mrs. F. 
W. Keene, Kansas City, Missouri. 



X 



FRENCH MUSTARD— FINE. 



One and one-half tablespoons mustard, three-fourths table- 
spoon sugar, rub well together, then add one egg well beaten 
and one-half cup vinegar; cook three or four minutes, and then 
add one tablespoon of olive oil.- — Bula Gilpin. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Three cups vinegar, scant, one-half cup butter, two teaspoons 
sugar, yolks of six eggs. Heat the butter, vinegar and sugar, 
beat the eggs very light and pour over them the hot vinegar. 
Cook in a double boiler and when done add salt and red pepper 
to taste, and a dessert spoon of mixed mustard. Mix with 
whipped cream when cold. Olive oil can be used if desired, using 
less butter. — Mrs. I. D. Lewis. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

One and one-half teaspoons mustard, raw, two teaspoons sug- 
ar, one teaspoon salt. Hot water enough to dissolve the above 
ingredients. Three tablespoons melted butter, poured in very 
slowly, four whole eggs or yolks of six, one and two-thirds cups 
vinegar, one-third cup cream or milk. Put in cup set in boiling 
water and cook until thick. — Mrs. Gilchrist. 



PRKSBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 93 

MAYONNAISE COLORINGS. 

It is often a dainty touch to color a salad dressing- and this 
can be done by boiling tomato pulp thick and adding to may- 
onnaise until the right shade of red is produced. The green col- 
or is made by cooking spinach, peas and a little parsley together 
and pressing through a sieve and adding to the dressing. There 
are harmless coloring pastes one can buy if these homemade 
colors are too much trouble. Salads may be garnished with 
fringed celery, hard boiled eggs pressed through a vegetable 
press, stuffed olives cut in rings, red and white radishes shaved 
thin or red and green peppers cut in fancy shapes. 



94 PRE8BYTERIANCOOKBOOK 

It Will Be Worth Your Time 
To Examine Our Photographs 

before having your sittings made. Studio equipped 
for all styles of work. Electric light just added— 
sittings made day or night. 




Phone 138 ^>Z"^ ^ — ^-/^ /^ The Red 
5I8Com'lSt. 'J^^^*^^^fc^ Show Case 
^ ^J ^ 

Lee Sc \/ernon 

"The SQuare IDeal" 

MILLINERY STORE 

Good Styles Good Prices Good Hats 

19 West Sixth Avenue 

WE DO IT ALL, AND DO IT RIGHT 

Good Groceries, Low Prices and Prompt 
Delivery 

Wilcox Grocery Co. 

TELEPHONE 192 22 AVEST SIXTH AVENUE 

MORRIS SAYS— 

Good Cooking Requires Pure 5pice, Pure Extracts and Pure Olive Oil 

Our spices are ground from the best barks and contain no adulterants. Our 
extracts of Vanilla and Lemon are UD to the standards of pure food laws. Our 
Olive Oil we get direct from the importers and test it to see that it is absolutely 
pure. There is a wondeiful difference in thi-s line. A trial of ours will convince 
you. 

423 Conn D. W. Morris & Son, Druggists ^n comn 



Pastry 



"What moistens the lip and what brightens the eye, 
What calls back the past like the rich pumpkin pie?" 

— Whittier. 

PASTRY HINTS. 

All materials should be cold, using ice water when possible. 
Butter and lard should be chopped or rubbed through the flour 
with a fork. Use as little water as possible — only enough to 
hold the dry ingredients together. All pies having only under 
crust should, when put in the baking tins, be thoroughly pricked 
through with a fork, so the crust will not bubble when baking; 
should be baked lightly before putting in the filling. In fruit pies, 
if the sugar and flour are well mixed dry (one tablespoon flour 
to one cup of sugar), part put on the bottom crust, the remainder 
after the fruit is in, thickens the juice without making a paste. 
Wet the edge of under crust with cold water before putting on 
the upper crust to prevent juice boiling out. 

All meringues should be beaten stiff. A little cream of tar- 
tar improves them; too much sugar toughens them. Meringues 
should be piled on lightly. If the under crust of fruit pies are 
washed over with white of egg it will prevent a sodden crust. 
A hot oven at the botton is necessary for pies. Should bake 
about thirty minutes. 

PUFF PASTE. 

"One pound flour (Pastry Flour), one pound of butter, a little 
ice water. All utensils should be ice cold; divide the butter in- 
to three parts, pat each part into a thin oblong pat, wrap two of 
the pats in a napkin and place them between pans of cracked 
ice. With the tips of the fingers work the other butter pat into 
the flour, keeping plenty of flour between the butter and the 
fingers. Add ice water, using as little as possible to make a 
smooth paste, toss the paste on floured board, knead just to form 
a ball shape, pat and roll out one-fourth inch thick, keeping 
paste a little wider than long, and corners square; lay one part 



96 ■ PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

of the butter on the paste, dredge very lightly with the flour — 
fold over the paste so as to enclose the butter, roll up like a jelly 
roll, pat and roll one-fourth inch thick, add butter and roll out as 
above. After all the butter has been added, fold and roll out four 
or five times. The more times it is folded and rolled out the 
more air will be enclosed. The more air retained in the paste 
the puffier it will be. If the paste becomes a little soft, place it 
in a napkin between the pans of cracked ice and stand until 
thoroughly chilled. Paste should be ice cold when put in oven. 
A hot oven is required for puff paste, especially at the bottom. 
Turn frequently that it may rise evenly; when well risen, de- 
crease the temperature of the oven." — From Inglehart's Swan's 
Down Cake Flour Book on Pastry. 

PLAIN PASTRY. 

Butter or lard for pastry should be sweet and fresh. Two 
cups flour, one cup butter or lard, one teaspoon salt, one-half 
teaspoon baking powder. Mix the baking powder thoroughly 
through the flour by sifting, add salt to lard, (if that is used), cold 
water enough to hold ingredients together, as little as posible. 
Baking powder is to make the crust flaky. Roll out thin and 
line pie pan. Will make crust for two medium-sized pies, or 
four shells. — Mrs. Davenport. 

PUFF PASTE. 

Place on board one coffee cup of flour, a little salt, one 
tablespoon butter, chop fine, then gradually mix in, but do not 
knead, four tablespoons ice water. Roll out or flatten with roll- 
ing pin, roll and fold again, repeating this several times. The 
paste must be kept very cold. — Mrs. D. F. Longenecker. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

One cup pumpkin cooked and mashed fine, yolks of two eggs, 
two heaping teaspoons cinnamon, one-third teaspoon cloves, one- 
half cup sugar, one cup milk. Whites of two eggs beaten stiff 
and added the last thing. When baked and cold put on top one 
cup whipped cream dotted with English walnut meats. — Mrs. 
William Burgett Irwin. 

APPLE PIE. 

One quart thinly sliced apples, one-half cup sugar, one tea- 



PRESBYTERIAN COOKBOOK 97 

Spoon butter cut in bits over the apples, two tablespoons water. 
Roll out upper and lower crusts, put apples between and bake 
slowly thirty minutes. — Mrs. R. J. Edwards. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 
Three cups pumpkin cooked and strained, one pint sweet 
milk, one teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon cinnamon, one tea- 
spoon salt, two scant cups sugar, three tablespoons flour; mix 
salt, ginger, cinnamon, flour and sugar, add to the pumpkin, 
then add three well beaten eggs. Add milk last. Line pie 
tins with paste, prick with fork and partly bake, then fill with 
filling and finish baking. Makes three medium-sized pies. — Mrs. 
G. W. Wilcox. 

RAISIN PIE. 

One-third box cleaned raisins, cook with two tablespoons 
sugar and enough water to cover. When done stir in one table- 
spoon corn starch and one of butter mixed together; flavor. 
Bake with two crusts. — Mrs. A. F. Myser. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

One-half cup sugar, one-half cup shredded cocoanut, one 
cup milk, yolks of two eggs beaten with one tablespoon flour; 
place this mixture over the fire and cook until it thickens, 
stirring constantly; pour in pan lined with pastry already baked; 
beat whites of two eggs, place on top of pie, sprinkle sugar on 
top of beaten whites. Put pie in moderately hot oven and 
leave until top is slightly brown. — Mrs. W. A. Randolph. 

SPONGE CREAM PIE. 
Boil nearly one pint of new milk; dissolve two tablespoons of 
corn starch in a little milk. To this add two eggs. When the 
milk has boiled, stir this in slowly with one scant cup of sugar 
and one-half cup butter, two teaspoons lemon extract, and for 
the crust take three eggs, one cup white sugar, one and one- 
half cups flour, one teaspoon baking powder, three tablespoons 
water. Bake in two pie pans in a quick oven. Split the cake 
while hot and spread in the cream. — Mrs. E. A. Richter. 

CREAM PIE. 

Yolks of two eggs, one-half cup butter, two-thirds cup sugar, 



98 PRESBYTERIANCOOKBOOK 

three and on-e-half cups cream, one tablespoon flour, flavor with 
vanilla. Beat whites of eggs till stifif, add three tablespoons of 
sugar, spread on pie. — Mrs. D. D. Williams. 

ORANGE PIE. 

Grate the rind of one and use th^e juice of two large oranges. 
Stir together one large cup sugar, two tablespoons flour, two 
tablespoons melted butter. Then add well beaten yolks of three 
eggs. Add the orange juice and cook until thick. When cold 
fill a baked shell and add meringue, brown slightly in quick 
oven. 

Meringue— Whites of two eggs well beaten, add two table- 
spoons granulated sugar and beat very stifif, a few drops of 
lonien juice and vanilla. — Mrs. J. McM. Taylor. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Heat one quart of rich milk in double boiler. Beat five eggs 
very light with four large tablespoons sugar, a little salt. Then 
pour in the boiling milk and flavor. Pour in crusts and bake un- 
til a knife blade will not stick in the middle. — Mrs. Wiggam. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

Line a deep pie tin with rich pie crust and bake in a quick 
oven. 

Filling — One-half teacup grated chocolate, butter size of an 
egg, one tablespoon vanilla, one cup sugar. Yolks of two eggs 
well beaten, two tablespoons corn starch dissolved in one cup hot 
water. Mix well and cook until thick, stirring constantly. Pour in 
shell and let cool. Beat the whites of two eggs, add two table- 
spoons powdered sugar, put on the pie and brown in the oven. — 
Mrs. Charles Lyon, Mrs. S. D. MacArthur, Mrs. Tressler, Mrs. 
D. D. Williams, Mrs. D. E. George, Topeka. 

TRANSPARENT TARTS. 

Yolks of five eggs, one whole egg, one cup granulated sugar, 
two teaspoons butter, one-fourth teaspoon grated nutmeg. Beat 
very light, and bake in pastry shells. — Nora Buchanan. 

MARTHA WASHINGTON PIE. 

Make sponge cake dough of one cup white sugar, five eggs, 



PRESBYTERIAN COOKBOOK 99 

one cup flour. Whip cream and put between and on top of lay- 
ers. — Mrs. T. J. Fleming. 

CREAM SHORTCAKE. 

Sift one quart of fine white t^our, rub into it three tablespoons 
cold butter, a teaspoon salt, a tablespoon sugar. Add a beaten 
egg to a cup of sour cream, turn it into other ingredients, dis- 
solve a teaspoon of soda in a spoonful of water, mix all to- 
gether, handling as little as possible; roll lightly into two round 
sheets, place on pie tins and bake twenty minutes in quick oven. 
Split, butter and cover with sweetened strawberries or other 
fruit. Serve with cream. — I\Irs. G. W. Wilcox. 

INDIVIDUAL STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKES. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, three-fourths cup milk, 
two eggs, two scant cups flour, three teaspoons baking pow- 
der. Bake in gem pans. Crush berries slightly, sweeten to 
taste, pour over hot cakes just before serving. Served with or 
without plain or whipped cream. — Mrs. A. S. Newman. 

PEACH SHORTCAKE. 

To the well beaten yolkes of three eggs gradually add one 
cup sugar, one and one-half cups flour, six tablespoons water, 
lastly the beaten whites and flavoring. Bake in two or three 
layers, according to size of pans and bake in hot oven. Spread 
layers with ripe peaches, sliced and sweetened, or strawberries 
crushed in sugar can be substituted. — Mrs. S. E. Jeremy. 

SHORTCAKE. 

Two cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, two small 
tablespoons butter, pinch salt, milk enough to make a soft dough. 
Do not roll, but pat in place with the hand. — Mrs. Nelson 
Cheney, contributed by Mrs. E. M. Forde. 

MINCE-MEAT. 

Two bowls chopped meat, two bowls chopped apples, one- 
fourth pound suet, two teacups molasses, juice of one lemon, 
one large teaspoon each of cinnamon and cloves, one of nut- 
meg, one pound seeded raisins, one pound currants, one-fourth 
citron, (cut fine), one quart cider vinegar and water. Salt to 



100 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

taste, add more sugar and water if necessary. Put all on the 
stove and let heat through. Seal in glass jars; will keep all 
winter. — Mrs. George Culbertson, Mrs. A. T. Porter. 

"BEST MINCE-MEAT." 

Three bowls meat, six bowls apples, one bowl molass-es, one 
bowl vinegar, one bowl cider, one bowl suet or butter, two bowls 
raisins, one bowl currants, three and one-half bowls brown 
sugar, two tablespoons cinnamon, two of mustard, two of cloves, 
one of salt, one of pepper. Grate rind of three lemons and add 
juice; add all but meats and spices, boil until raisins are tender, 
then add meat and spices. If suet is used, scald it. — Mrs. J. L. 
Carter. 

MINCE-MEAT WITHOUT MEAT. 

Two pounds finely chopped suet, four pounds grated bread 
crumbs, four pounds currants, four pounds raisins, five pounds 
brown sugar, one and one-half pounds of orange and lemon peel 
and citron, six pounds apples, weighed after chopping, two table- 
spoons cinnamon, two tablespoons cloves, one tablespoon mace, 
one tablespoon salt, and two quarts boiled cider. Stir thoroughly 
put away in jars in a cool place. — Mrs. William Griffith, Law- 
rence. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

One cup cocoanut, one a'nd one-half cups sweet milk, yolks 
of four eggs, a little pinch of salt, sweeten to taste; beat all to- 
gether and bake in a crust. Use the whites for frosting, and 
brown in oven. — Mrs. F. Bundrem. 

CREAM PIE. 
Place a pint of milk where it will heat; beat together one cup 
of white sugar, one-half cup flour, the yolks of two eggs, two 
tablespoons milk and a very small pinch of salt. Stir into the 
milk when it is nearly boiling one teaspoon vanilla. Beat the 
whites of the eggs with two tablespoons sugar and put over the 
top and put in oven to brown. The crusts are baked first. This 
amount will make two pies if your tins are not too large. — Mrs. 
J. D. Allen, ]Miss Sarah Kirkendall, ^Irs. J. C. Jacobs. 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 101 

CHESS PIE. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, two-thirds cup milk, one 
tablespoon flour, one tablespoon corn starch, yolks of five eggs. 
Beat the whites with little sugar and pour on top and brown 
slightly. — j\Irs. Thomas. 

CREAM PIE. 

One cup sugar, three-fourths cup flour, three large eggs or 
four small ones, one large pint milk, one pinch salt; beat yolks 
of eggs with the sugar, add the flour and milk, cook in double 
boiler, stirring until the mixture thickens. Bake the crust and 
put in the filling. Cover with the well beaten whites of the 
eggs, and brown in the oven. Flavor with lemon or vanilla. — 
Mrs. C. A. Whitbeck, Mrs. L. D. Parker. 

BUTTERMILK PIE. 

Yolks of three eggs, one and one-half cups sugar, two cups 
buttermilk, two tablespoons flour, one tablespoon lemon, one 
tablespoon butter; bake with under crust with frosting on top. — 
Mrs. R. B. Evans. 

STRAWBERRY PIE. 

Bake shell; cover berries with pulverized sugar until sugar 
forms a syrup. When ready to serve put berries into crust, and 
cover with whipped cream. — Mrs. Nellie Penishon Morgan 

SCOTCH SHORTCAKE. 

Three-fourths pound butter, one-fourth pound best iard, one- 
half pound good brown sugar; work well together, then sift two 
pounds pastry flour and add slowly. Knead thoroughly, roll and 
cut into cakes about three-fourths of an inch thick. Prick with 
a fork closely, sending through to the bottom. Use cake turner 
in putting cakes in pan; bake one-half hour in slow oven. Line 
pan with paper. The quantity of flour seems large, but it must all 
go in, kneading a little at a time on the board. In cutting, press 
the edges well together as it is quite stiff. — Mrs. McGregor, 
Springfield, Ohio, contributed by Mrs. Davenport. Mrs. Jonas 
Eckdall, jr. 

PINEAPPLE PIE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup sweet cream, one 



102 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

can pineapple, grated or chopped fine. Beat butter and sugar to 
a cream, add yolks of eggs, then pineapple and cream, lastly the 
beaten whites, whipped in lightly. — Mrs. D. D. Williams, Mrs. 
W. O. Peters. 

LEMON PIE. 

One lemon, grated peel and juice, two eggs, one teacup cream 
or rich milk, two tablespoons butter, one teacup sugar. Heat 
cream and pour over beaten whites of eggs. Mix other in- 
gredients and put together when ready to put in crust. This 
makes one large pie. — Mrs. O. B. Hardcastle. 

LEMON PIE. 

Grated rind and juice of one lemon, one cup sugar, tablespoon 
melted butter, one cup hot water, two tablespoons corn starch, 
yolks of two eggs. Use whites beaten stifif with a little sugar 
for frosting. Bake crust, fill with the boiled filling and return to 
the oven to brown frosting slightly. — Mrs. Tuhey. 

LEMON PIE. 

One cup sugar, two tablespoons flour, one cup boiling water, 
butter half the size of an egg, grated rind and juice of one lemon. 
Cook together until clear, and when cool add yolk of an egg. 
Line plate with paste and bake, then fill, putting on the beaten 
white of an egg, with a little sugar, for icing. Brown in oven. — 
Mrs. A. T. Porter, Miss Mary P. Richter. 

LEMON PIE. 

Crust — One cup flour, three-fourths cup lard, pinch salt, pinch 
of baking powder; mix with a little cold water. Filling — One- 
half cup sugar, one-half tablespoon butter, one and one-half cups 
milk, four teaspoons corn starch, yolks of two eggs, juice of 
one lemon and grated rind of one lemon. — Gertrude Griffin. 

PIEPLANT PIE. 

Mix one-half teacup sugar and a heaping teaspoon flour to- 
gether, sprinkle over the bottom crust, then add the pieplant cut 
fine. Sprinkle the same amount of sugar and flour over this. 
Put on top crust and bake three-fourths hour in a slow oven. — 
Mrs. O. H. Winegar. 



PKESBYTERIAN COOKBOOK 103 

PIEPLANT PIE. 

Three cups chopped pieplant, two cups sugar, two tablespoons 
corn starch, yolks of three eggs. Mix and bake with under crust 
remove from oven and cover with a meringue made of the whites 
of three eggs beaten stiff with three tablespoons powdered sugar; 
return to oven and brown slightly. — Mrs. E. M. Forde. 

BERRY PIES. 

Line pie tin with good pastry. For a pie requiring two large 
cups of either blackberries or raspberries, use one tablespoon 
flour, mixed dry with two-thirds cup sugar; put one-half in the 
bottom of the pie. Put in the berries, previously crushing about 
half of them to make juice. Put the remainder of the flour and 
sugar on top; add the top crust, leaving vent holes for the escape 
of steam. Wet the edges of crust and pinch well together to 
keep juice from boiling out. Some cooks bind a strip of muslin 
around the edge for the same purpose. Bake from twenty to 
thirty minutes in hot oven. Berries that are dry can have a 
tablespoon or two of water added. Blackberry pies are improv- 
ed by a sprinkle of cloves. Gooseberries need equal amount of 
sugar, and should be cooked longer than other berries. Cherries 
should have equal amount of sugar, and one teaspoon butter to 
each pie. Blueberries require the same amount of sugar as rasp- 
berries. Currants an equal amount, that is, as many cups of 
sugar as berries. — ]\Irs. W. W. Jones. 

MAPLE CUSTARD PIE. 

Beat two eggs and one-third cup grated maple sugar, mix 
with one level tablespoon of flour, add gradually two cups of 
milk. Turn into a deep pastry-lined pan, dust slightly with cinna- 
mon or nutmeg and bake in a quick oven at first to set the crust, 
then lower the temperature and bake until custard is solid. — Mrs. 
J. M. Tanner. 

"GRANDMOTHER'S MOLASSES PIE." 

Two eggs, butter size of a walnut, beat well together, add one 
pint molasses and one-half cup sugar, with one-half teaspoon 
soda mixed into the molasses, one tablespoon vinegar, two heap- 
ing tablespoons flour, one-half cup hot water, flavor with nutmeg. 
This makes enough for two large pies; bake without top crust. 
Will keep for weeks. — ]\Irs. Nellie Pemshon Morgan. 



104 PRKSBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

MOCK MINCE PIE. 

One cup rolled cracker crumbs, one cup stoned raisins, one 
and one-half cups sugar, one and one-half cups boiling water, 
one-half cup vinegar, one-half cup molasses, one cup butter, grat- 
ed rind of one-half orange, cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg to 
taste. Pour boiling water over the rolled crackers, butter and 
sugar. — Mrs. S. B. Warren. 

THANKSGIVING PUMPKIN PIE. 

Steam or stew pumpkin until very dry. Rub through colander. 
To one quart of sifted pumpkin, add two cups scalded milk, salt 
to taste, one cup sugar, four well-beaten eggs, one tablespoon 
each of ginger and cinnamon, nutmeg and allspice also if much 
spice is liked. Bake in deep pans in a hot oven at the bottom. 
This will make two pies. When cold, add a layer of strained 
honey and on top of that a good layer of whipped cream. — Mrs. 
Davenport. 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 105 



Xhese Receipts 



will all bring: Rood results if you use good 
material. The question of getting good 
material can be settled by sending your 
orders to 



Phone 107 

JVb. 7 East SLvth Avenue 



The Baird Grocery 



W. N. SMELSER, Attorney at Law 

EMPORIA, KANSAS 

ROOMS 5 AND O, RMPORIA NATIOXAL, BANK BUILDING 



Emporia Music Company 

High grade Pianos and Organs 

Sixth Avenue and Merchant Street E.MPORIA. KANSAS 

DE]Nr]N^IS MADDEN 

ATTORXEY AT LATV 



TELEPHONE 376 EmPORIA.. KaIVKAS 

EXGRA^VED 

CARDS AND INVITATIONS 
McCORD & McCORD 

Corner Fiftic and Merchant 



108 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 



Ballweg's Hattery 




425 Commercial EMPORIA, KANSAS 



Desserts 



"An't it please your honor," quoth the peasant, 
"This same dessert is very pleasant." 

FRUIT BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Beat to a stiff froth on-e quart cream. Then mash three ripe 
bananas and two oranges; to this mixture add half a package of 
Knox's gelatine that has been dissolved in half cup of water, 
add this slowly to the beaten cream, stirring well. Put in a 
mold to hard-en about three hours before serving. This is enough 
to serve twelve people. Any kind of fruits or nuts will do for a 
substitute. — Mrs. F. C. Newman. 

JELLIES WITH RIPE, FRESH FRUIT NO. 3. 

Prepare and quarter or slice half a dozen or more ripe peaches 
or other soft fruit. Sprinkle with sugar and set to one side. Soak 
package of Plymouth Rock gelatine in one pint of cold water thirty 
minutes; add one and one-half pints hot water to dissolve it, then 
add one and one-half cups sugar, and lastly the fruit. Set on ice 
to harden until ready to serve. Whole raspberries and straw- 
berries are very nice this way. 

IMPERIAL CREAM. 

One cup of rice, one and one-half cups sugar, one-half box 
gelatine, one pint of milk, one pint whipped cream, flavor to suit 
taste. Put rice to cook in one quart of water. When it comes to 
a boil, pour the water off, then add the milk, and cook in a dou- 
ble boiler two hours. Soak the gelatine two and one-half hours 
in one-half cup water, then add with the flavoring and sugar to 
the cooked rice, and whip until cold. Whip the cream and add 
last. Put in a mold and serve with something tart. It is nice 
served on a platter with the large imported German strawberries 
around the mold. — Mrs. William B. Irwin. 



108 PBESBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 

NUT CREAM. 

One quart cream, one cup powdered sugar, one-half box gela- 
tine, vanilla. Cover gelatine with cold water, soak one-half hour, 
whip cream stiff and set dish in pan of cracked ice. Add to gela- 
tine just enough boiling water to dissolve it; add sugar carefully 
to cream, then vanilla, and last strain in gelatine; then 
add one pound blanched almonds chopped fine, candied cherries 
cut fine, a f-ew maraschino cherries cut fine. Stir from the sides 
and bottom of the dish until it begins to s-et, then turn it into a 
mold and set away to cool. Serve with snowballs or any kind 
of cake. Will serve twenty. — Mrs. I. D. Lewis. 

MAPLE CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Soak a level tablespoon gelatine in one-fourth cup cold water 
until soften-ed, then add three-fourths cup hot maple syrup. Stir 
until gelatine is dissolved. Strain and cool. Before it thickens 
whip one pint of cream and fold in carefully by the spoonful to 
keep from lumping. Add a few drops vanilla, turn into cups or 
large mold, chill thoroughly and serve with sponge or orang-e 
cake. To make it very rich, stir in one cup of fruits and nuts, 
cut fine; as raisins, figs, pecans or walnuts. Garnish and serve 
with whipped cream. — Mrs. Charles Ryan. 

COFFEE JELLY, No. 6. 

Soak one package of Plymouth Rock gelatine in one and one- 
half pints cold water for thirty minutes, add one and one-half 
pints hot cof¥ee and two cups sugar and keep on ice to harden 
till r-eady to serve. Serve with sugar and cr-eam. 

SNOW PUDDING, NO. 4. 

Soak a package of Plymouth Rock gelatine in one pint of cold 
water thirty minutes, add one and one-half pints hot water to 
dissolve, and one and one-half cups sugar, and two teaspoons 
lemon or other flavoring extract. Stir until sugar is dissolved. 
Pour into a very shallow dish and set on ice until it slightly jells 
or thickens. Beat to a stiff froth the whites of three eggs, and 
a pinch of salt; beat into the gelatine until light and frothy, and 
set back on the ice until ready to serve. 

Sauce. — Beat the yolks of the eggs with a cup of sugar and 
two teaspoons of corn starch; scald one quart of milk and turn 



PKESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 109 

into the yolks, heat until it thickens, stirring all the time. Add 
vanilla and a pinch of salt and let it cool. 

CUSTARD WITH STRAWBERRIES. 

Beat the yolks of three or four eggs, pour over this one pint 
of hot milk, a h-eaping teaspoon flour, sugar to suit the taste. Let 
come to boil in double boiler, add flavoring, put in sherbet glasses 
with a layer of preserved strav^^berries. Over this a meringue 
made from the whites, set in oven to brown. To keep glasses 
from cracking put in pan of water on wet towel, none of the 
glasses touching. Cool gradually, out of a draft. — Mrs. D. F. 
Longenecker. 

LEMON SNOW. 

Two cups water, one cup sugar, four tablespoons corn starch, 
one-fourth cup lemon juice, small pieces lemon rind, whites of 
four eggs. Mix sugar and corn starch, add boiling water slowly, 
and bit of rind, cook over fire ten minutes, then in double boiler 
twenty minutes. Remove from the fire, add lemon juice and 
strain; add mixture slowly to beaten whites. Beat, turn into mold 
to harden. Serve with custard sauce, flavored with vanilla. — 
Elizabeth Green. 

CALADONIC CREAM. 

Beat the whites of three eggs very stiff, add slowly one glass 
of currant jelly, beating all the time. Put on ice and serve in 
sherbert cups with whipped cream on top. In place of currant 
jelly any kind of tart jelly can be used, or strawberry jam, fresh 
strawberries, washed and well sugared, canned peaches, apricots 
without skins, or preserved figs, mashed very fine without much 
juice. A few nut meats can be added if desired. Do not let stand 
long before using. — Mrs. William Burgett Irwin. 

BIRD'S NEST PUDDING, NO. 5. 
Peel and core six or more apples, according to size; place in 
a shallow dish and fill cores with sugar; bake until the apples are 
soft and tender. Make a plain jelly as directed in recipe number 
one and when it begins to thicken pour it over the soft apples 
and place on ice until hard and ready to serve. Serve with grated 
nutmeg, sugar and cream. Nice with whipped cream. Particu- 
lar]y fine with pink gelatine. 



110 PRESBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 

ORANGE BLANC MANGE. 

One and one-half teaspoons granulated gelatine, one-half cup 
cold water, one-half cup boiling water, one cup sugar, one cup 
orange juice, grated rind one orange, one tablespoon lemon juice, 
one cup thick cream. Whip cream till thick. Soak gelatine in cold 
water until soft, then add boiling water, sugar and fruit juice. 
Strain and add orange rind. Plac-e bowl in pan of ice water. 
When mixture begins to thicken add the cream, pour into a mold 
and leave on ice several hours. May be served with either cream 
or custard sauce. — Elizabeth Frances Greene, Drexel Institute, 
Philadelphia. 

/APPLE PORCUPINE. 
^ Make a syrup by boiling eight minutes, one and one-half cups 

sugar and one and one-half cups water. Pare and core eight ap- 
ples. Put apples in syrup as soon as pared so they will not dis- 
color. Cook until soft, occasionally skimming the syrup during 
the cooking. Apples cook better covered with the syrup, there- 
fore it is better to use a deep saucepan and have two cookings. 
Drain apples from syrup; cool and fill cavities with jelly, marma- 
lade or preserved fruit, and stick the apples with blanched and 
split almonds. Serve with cream sauce. — Mrs. Walter McCoy. 

LEMON FOAM. 

Two cups hot water, one of sugar, juice of one lemon, boil and 
strain. Beat the whites of three eggs, add to the mixture and 
beat till it foams. 

Custard. — Two cups milk, two tablespoons sugar, yolks of 
three eggs. Boil. Serve together. — Mrs. Marsland. 

LEMON JELLY, NO. i. 

Soak a package of Plymouth Rock gelatine in one pint of cold 
water thirty minutes; then add two pints of hot water, one and 
one-half cups sugar, or sweeten to taste, two teaspoons lemon 
extract and stir until sugar is dissolved. Set on ice to harden 
and let it remain on ice until ready to serve. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

Soak a package of Plymouth Rock gelatine (pink) in one pint 
of cold water thirtj' minutes; add two pints of hot water and one 



P K E S B Y T E R I A N C O O K B O O K 111 

and one-half cups sugar, flavor with orange extract, and stir un- 
til sugar is dissolved. Set on ic-e until wanted to serve. In a 
similar manner other jellies may be made, using extracts of rasp- 
berry, pineapple, strawberry and so forth. In serving these jel- 
lies cut across and across, breaking into crystals and piling light- 
ly in a glass dish. Eat plain with cream and sugar. Delicious 
with whipped cream. 

MERINGUES. 

Four eggs, whites, one-fourth teaspoon cream tartar, one tea- 
cup sugar, half teaspoon vanilla. Beat whites as stiff as possible; 
when rather stifif, add cream tartar and continue beating till eggs 
are too stiff to fall off plate. Then beat in the sugar; lightly 
butter large pan. Drop large spoonfuls of mixture, let bake in a 
very slow oven; when set, push the flattened bases lightly into 
the rounded tops to make them saucer like. Fill cavities with 
vanilla ice cream. Place a meringue on top for a lid. — Mrs. D. 
F. Longenecker. 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE. 

Soak one-half box gelatine in one-half cup cold water for one- 
half hour. Take one can grated pineapple and one cup sugar and 
let simmer ten minutes; then remove from stove and add gela- 
tine and juice of one lemon. When nearly cold add one cup 
whipped cream and beaten whites of four eggs. Put into a mold 
and serve with whipped cream and candied cherries. — Mrs. E. M. 
Cheney. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Soak one-fourth box of Knox's gelatine in a scant half cup of 
milk twenty minutes; when dissolved, set cup in hot water, using 
gelatine lukewarm; into one pint of whipped cream put one-half 
cup pulverized sugar, a little salt and the beaten whites of two 
eggs and flavor with vanilla, then add gelatine and strain while 
pouring in; stir until gelatine is well mixed with cream and when 
nearly stiff enough to drop, turn into a mold lined with lady 
fingers, or narrow slices of sponge cake, having cake even on 
top, first dipping cake in white of egg. — Mrs. Dudley. 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE. 

One cup sugar, one can pineapple, one envelope minute gela- 



112 PRESBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 

tine, one lemon. Chop the pineapple, add enough water tO' the 
juice to make two cups. Heat, and when boiling pour it over the 
gelatine. When cool add the juice of one kmon. Serve cold with 
whipped cream sweetened and flavor to suit the taste. — Mrs. G. 
W. Newman. 

STRAWBERRY OR FIG WHIP. 

Whip one pint of cream, flavor with a few drops of vanilla, 
put in sherbet cups and drop in center of each a good spoonful 
of ]arg€ preserved strawberries or figs. — Mrs. William Burgett 
Irwin. 

COLD RICE DESSERT. 

Wash in cold water one-half cup Carolina rice. Boil ten min- 
utes in three pints of water with a little salt. Pour off water and 
add one and one-half pints milk and cook in a double boiler from 
three to five hours. When cold, stir into whipped cr-eam enough 
rice to make a nice flufify looking pudding; drop from a big spoon 
into individual dishes and serve with maple sj^rup. — Mrs. Rankin. 

COFFEE CREAM. 

One quart of milk, heated, cook beaten whites of four eggs, 
slightly sweetened and flavored with almond in the hot milk. 
One cup of sugar beaten with the yolks of the eggs; two table- 
spoons flour, one cup of clear strong coffee. Pour boiling milk 
over this, cook until it thickens, stirring constantly. Put the 
cooked whites on top the custard when served. Eat hot, or ice 
cold.— Mrs. G. H. Randolph. 

BUTTERCUP JELLY. 

Soften half a box of gelatine in a cup of cold water. Mean- 
while, heat a pint of milk in a double boiler, stir into it the yolks 
of three eggs that have been incorporated with a cupful of sugar, 
and cook to a custard. Flavor with vanilla, add the softened 
gelatine and stir until it is dissolved. Then remove from the fire 
and fold in the stiffly beat-en whites of the eggs. Turn it into 
individual molds, or one large one, and when it is cool stand it 
on ice to chill. Serve with whipped cream. The mixture should 
be thoroughly beaten together before it goes into the mold, or 
the jelly will separate from the custard and the appearance will 
be marred. — Miss DeCamp. 



PKESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 113 

CRANBERRY FOAM. 

Whip the whites of four ■eggs to a stiff snow with a pinch of 
salt and a cup of powdered sugar. Then add a teaspoon at a time 
two-thirds of a cup of cranberry jelly, continuing to beat until the 
jelly is thoroughly incorporated and the mass is very light. Serve 
in sherbet glasses or custard cups with a teaspoon of whipped 
cream on top of each. — Mrs. L. A. Stocking. 

CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE. 

One quart of milk, four tablespoons Kingsford's corn starch, 
six tablespoons Baker's number one chocolate, a little salt, four 
tablespoons sugar. Flavor with vanilla; cook in a double boiler 
until thick. Serve with cream, plain or whipped, or the following 
chocolate sauce. 

Sauce. — One cup brown sugar, one cup milk, yolk of one egg, 
one cup, or less if desired, of grated chocolate. Flavor with 
vanilla after cooked until thick. — Mrs. Wm. B. Irwin. 

VEILED BEAUTY. 

Chopped dates, cover with tapioca previously cooked and 
sweetened, serve with whipped cream; very nice. Or, sliced 
bananas, chopped dates and English walnuts served with whipped 
cream. — Mrs. W. H. Harkness, Junction City. 

BAKED APPLES. 

Take medium-sized apples, pare and core with corer. Bake 
for about twenty minutes without sugar, then sweeten to taste 
and bake until apples are thoroughly cooked. When cooked, fill 
centers with pecan meats. Serve ice cold with whipped cream. — 
Mrs. R. H. Jaquith. 

SNOW PYRAMIDS. 

Whip a pint of cream stifif and sweeten and flavor and place in 
the serving dish. Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, 
sweeten with two tablespoons powdered sugar. Drop in a table- 
spoon of egg in the center of each dish of cream in the shape of 
a pyramid. Serve ice cold. — I\Irs. Charles Lyon. 

ALMOND BLANC MANGE. 

Scald one quart of milk in a double boiler, add one-half cup 



114 PKKSBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

sugar, one-third cup Ralston Breakfast Food, one half teaspoon 
salt. Cook forty minutes; add one-half cup blanched and finely- 
chopped and powdered almonds, English walnuts if preferred. 
Cook five minutes. Remove from fire and add teaspoon vanilla. 
Pour into wet mold and chill. Serve with cream. — Mrs. J. A. 
Sankey. 

XBITTS. 
One-half box gelatine dissolved in a cup of water, whites of 
twelve eggs beaten very stifif, one tablespoon powdered sugar to 
each egg. Beat eggs and sugar together gradually; to this, add 
one pound candied cherries, mix slowly, then one-half pound 
English walnuts, blanched and chopped, flavored with vanilla. 
Mold, cut in slices and serve with whipped cream. Serve twelve 
or thirteen persons. — Mrs. Allen V. Davenport. 

RICE SOUFFLE. 

One quart cream or milk, three tablespoons pulverized su- 
gar, one package Knox's gelatine, dissolved in one-half pint 
•wa.rm water. Three teaspoons extract of rose, beat until stiflf; 
one-half pound of boiled rice, one cup, fold in until stit¥. Serve 
ice cold with cherrj' preserves and whipped cream. — Miss Ina 
Graves. 

ORANGE CREAM. 

To one pint of cream add the rind and juice of two or three 
lemons, or oranges, whip well; add one-half cup sugar and one- 
half ounce or one tablespoon gelatine dissolved in hot water and 
cooled. Mold immediately. — Mrs. O. B. Hardcastle. 

SPANISH CREAM PUDDING. 

One-third box gelatine, one quart niilk, one and one-half cups 
sugar, four eggs; put gelatine in milk and let stand one hour. 
Beat yolks of eggs with sugar, add to milk and boil twenty min- 
utes; when a little cool stir in beaten whites and beat ten raiin- 
utes. Flavor with vanilla. Put in mold to harden. — Mrs. O. B. 
Hardcastle. 



7< 



PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA. 

Soak over night one cup tapioca in plenty of cold water. The 
next morning drain off all the water, then add to it the juice of 
two lemons and one-half cup cold water, one-half pound can slic- 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 115 

€d pineapples, shredded and its juice. Add to this one and one- 
half cups sugar. Cook all slowly, stirring carefully so it will not 
spoil the shape of the tapioca; cook until almost clear. Have 
ready the whites of three eggs well beaten and fold into this care- 
fully. Serve ice cold with whipped cream. — Mrs. George R. 
Jones, Mrs. A. F. Higgins. 

MAPLE JUNKET. 

Crush one junket tablet and dissolve in one tablespoon of cold 
water. To a quart of rich new milk add a third of a cup of grat- 
ed mapl-e sugar. Stir until the sugar is dissolved and heat it until 
lukewarm, then add the dissolved junket tablet and pour im- 
mediately into cups filling them about three-quarters full. Keep 
in the warm kitchen without jarring until jellied, then carefully 
remove to a cool place or the refrigerator. Serv-e with whipped 
cream and g rated maple sugar. Very nice for delicate persons. — 
Miss Florence DeCamp. 

SWISS PUDDING. 

Whites of six eggs beaten very stifif, add one small cup of 
granulated sugar, one tablespoon of vinegar and one spoonful of 
vanilla. Bake in two layers in a slow oven. Whip one pint of 
cream with a little sugar^ then add one cup of chopped English 
walnuts and spread between and on top of layers and dot the 
tops with Maraschino cherries. Set where it is cold; it can be 
made several hours before wanted. Cut in squares when ready 
to serve. This will serve eight persons. — Mrs. A. F. Higgins. 

CRYSTALLIZED FRUIT. 

To crystallize fruit or candy in small quantities, take two 
pounds of the best sugar, add enough water to dissolve it. Let 
boil to a syrup. Put the fruit in the pan and pour the syrup over 
it. Turn lightly by slightly shaking the pan until every side is 
covered, and set to cool. When cooled drain off the syrup, set 
the pan on its side so that the remaining particles may drain oflf, 
and every side be coated alike. It is always best to pour the 
syrup over the fruit while warm, as it takes a firmer hold and 
makes a brighter crystal. This warm syrup will not hurt the 
fruit; it will be all right w^hen cool. The crystallized fruit may 
be prepared at noon if wanted for six o'clock dinner. — Mrs. T. 
G. Wibley. 



116 



PJiESBYTEHIAN COOK BOOK 




DIAMOND CRYSTAL is the only salt in the world 
above ninety-nine per cent pure by government 
analysis. It is made under our exclusive patents— 
the only process vphich removes the gypsum, iron and 
sulphate of lime which all other salts contain. 

EVER NOTICE the heavy coating of lime hard 
water leaves in a teakettle? All salt brines contain 
ten times more lime than the hardest water. All 
salt, except, that made by our exclusive pro- 
cess, often carries as high as two per cent, of this 
dangerous impurity, sulphate 
of lime, the worst enemy of 
all food flavors. 

Because of Diamond 
Crystal's unequaled purity, 
it flavors everything perfect- 
ly It pleased the critical, 
and will please you. Ask 
your grocer for it. 




T N EVERY SACK and 
■■• Carton of either 
DIAMOND CRYSTAL 
or SHAKER SALT, you 
will find full directions 
how to obtain this GEN- 
UINE CUT GLASS 
SALT SHAKER. 



DIAMOND CRYSTAL SALT 

ST. CLAIR, MICHIGAN 



CO. 



Puddings 



"He criticised your wine, and analyzed your meat, j'et on plain 
pudding deigned at home to eat." — Pope. 

"A perpetual feast of nectared sweets." — ^lilton. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

Three-fourths pound seeded raisins, one-half pound currants, 
one-fourth pound citron, one-fourth pound figs, three-fourths cup 
sugar, two and three-fourths cups flour, one cup bread crumbs, 
three cups beef suet, four eggs, one pint milk, one-fourth pound 
blanched almonds, one-fourth pound English walnuts, chopped 
not too fine, one-half orange, chopped fine, one-half cup molas- 
ses, one-half teaspoon soda, stirred in the molasses, salt to taste, 
one-half teaspoon of cloves, one teaspoon cinnamon, one-half 
nutmeg, one teaspoon vanilla. Steam five hours, dry off in the 
oven. This will serve twelve. — Mrs. S. B. Warren. 

BLOWER HOUSE PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound currants, one pound raisins, one-fourth pound 
citron, six eggs, one-half pound butter, one pound sugar, one 
spoon each kind of spice, three heaping cups flour, one spoon 
baking powder, one pint sweet milk. Stir thoroughly, boil five 
hours. 

Dip sauce for puddings, (large) : One quart bowl brown sugar, 
tablespoon flour, one tablespoonful butter, one teaspoonful va- 
nilla, (or any flavoring preferred), one pint boiling water. Let 
boil slowly and serve hot. — Mrs. A. E. Patten, Topeka, Kan. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

(By measure.) 

Two cups of finely chopped beef suet, two cupfuls fine bread 

crumbs, one and one-half cupfuls sugar, two cupfuls seeded 

raisins, two cups of well washed currants, one cup of blanched 

almonds, one-half cup of citron sliced thin, one teaspoon full 



118 PRKSBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

salt, one of cloves, two of cinnamon, half a grat-ed nutmeg, five 
well-beaten eggs. Dissolve a level teaspoon of soda in a table- 
spoon of warm water. Flour the fruit thoroughly from a pint of 
flour, then mix the remainder as follows: In a large bowl put 
the well-beaten •eggs, sugar, spices, and salt in one cupful of milk, 
stir in the fruit, chopped nuts, bread crumbs, and salt, one after 
the other until all are used, putting in the dissolved soda last and 
adding enough flour to make the fruit stick together, which will 
take all the fruit. Boil or steam four hours; serve with any vv^ell- 
flavored sauce. — Mrs. Dennis Madden. 

TRANSPARENT SAUCE FOR PLUM PUDDING. 

Two ounces butter, one pound sugar, one-half pint water, one- 
half lemon; spices (whole) mace, cinnamon, cloves and allspice, 
one teaspoonful in all. Put all these ingredients together, cutting 
the lemon in pieces. Let boil ten minutes and strain. Flavor 
after taking from the stove. — Mrs. Harry Hood. 

HARD SAUCE. 

One cup sugar, white of one egg unbeaten, one-third cup but- 
ter. Cream butter and sugar, add egg and beat to a cream. — 
Mrs. Howard Dunlap. 

CREAMY SAUCE. 

One cup sugar, three-fourths cup butter, two eggs. Beat to- 
gether to a cream. Place over boiling water, but do not boil. Stir 
frequently, add three tablespoons boiling water while cooking. 
Flavor as desired. — Mrs. Davenport. 

MAPLE SUGAR SAUCE. 

Grate two-thirds cup of maple sugar, add two level table- 
spoons of flour and pour on gradually one cup boiling water. 
Cook five minutes, stirring constantly, then add a rounding 
tablespoon of butter. Take from the fire and flavor delicately 
with vanilla. Will serve twelve. — Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 

ORANGE SAUCE. 

Beat the yolk of one egg until thick, add gradually three- 
fourths cup of powdered sugar, continuing the beating then very 



PKESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 119 

gradually, (to prevent curdling) add the juic-e of an orange. This 
will serve six. — Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 

SNOWBALL SAUCE. 

Cream one-third cupful of butter, and add gradually while 
beating constantly, one cupful of powdered sugar, then add one 
tablespoonful of cream, two-thirds t-easpoonful of vanilla and 
one-third teaspoonful of lemon extract. Shape in balls, and roll 
in shredded cocoanut. — Miss Julia Davis. 

RAISIN PUFF. 

Two eggs, one-half cup butter, three cups flour, one cup milk, 
two tablespoons sugar, one cup raisins, chopped fine, two tea- 
spoons baking powder, one teaspoon lemon extract. Steam one- 
half hour in cups. Cream sauce. — Mrs. D. D. Williams. 



/ 



SUET PUDDING. ^ 

Three-fourths cup of suet, chopped very fine, on-e cup molas- 
ses, one cup of sour milk, one teaspoon of soda, two cups of 
bread crumbs, one cup of flour, two eggs, one cup of figs, chop- 
ped fine. (Raisins can be used instead of figs, if preferred.) 
Steam three hours. Serve hot with any good pudding sauce. — 
Mrs. S. J. Hubbell, Kansas City. Contributed by IMrs. Daven- 
port. 

DUFF. 

One cup sugar, two-thirds cup of butter, one -egg, one cup 
milk, one teaspoon soda, one cup raisins, a little salt, three cups 
of flour, one-half t-easpoon cloves, a little nutmeg and cinnamon. 
Boil two hours. The pudding dish should not be more than two- 
thirds full. S-erv-e with sauce. 

Sauce. — One-third cup of butter, one-half cup sugar, one- 
half nutmeg, one teaspoon vanilla, one teaspoon lemon, stirred to 
a cream. Stir smooth one-half cup of flour with cold water, add 
one pint of boiling water, let it boil until well cooked, then pour 
over the creamed ingredients. — Mrs. Wm. B. Irwin. 

FIG PUDDING. 

One-third pound finely chopped beef suet, one-half pound 
figs, finely chopped, two and one-third cups stal-e bread crumbs. 



120 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

one-half cup milk, two eggs, one cup sugar, three-fourths tea- 
spoon salt. Chop suet and work with hands until creamy, add the 
figs. Soak the bread crumbs in the milk, add the w-ell-b-eaten 
eggs, sugar and salt. Combine the mixtures, turn into a buttered 
mold and steam three hours. Serve with sauce. — Elizabeth Fran- 
ces Greene, Drexel Institute, Philadelphia. 

FRUIT PUDDINGS. 

One pint flour, four teaspoons baking powder, one-fourth 
teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon nutmeg, one-half teaspoon cin- 
namon, one-half cup beef suet (finely chopped), one-fourth cup 
sugar or molass-es, one-half cup milk if molasses is used or three- 
fourths cup milk if sugar is used, one-half cup currants, one-half 
cup raisins. Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add other ingredients 
in order given. Pour into a buttered mold, cover tightly and 
steam two and one-half hours. — Elizabeth Frances Greene, Drex- 
el Institute, Philadelphia. 

GRAHAM PUDDING. 

Half cup sugar, one-half cup molasses, one egg, one cup milk; 
mix thoroughly and add one teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon 
soda, two cups graham, one cup raisins, one small teaspoon each 
of cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg. Steam for three hours. Will 
keep well, the more it is heated over by steammg, the better. 
Good with plain sauces or the following rich sauce: 

Sauce.— One large cup of sugar, one-third cup butter, one egg, 
one lemon, one teaspoon nutmeg, three tablespoons of boiling 
water. Beat sugar, butter and egg, add other ingredients; cream 
by beating about ten minutes. — Mrs. H. M. Woods. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

■' One-half cup sugar, two tablespoonfuls flour, stir well; cut in 
about one-half section of Baker's (bitter) chocolate; mix with a 
little milk, add one-half teaspoon of vanilla and one and one-half 
cups milk and cook in double boiler. — Mrs. H. M. Woods. 

WOODFORD PUDDING. 

Two tablespoonsful of butter, four tablespoonsful sugar, one- 
half cup sweet milk, three eggs, one-half teaspoon of soda, one 
cup of cooked fruit, not sweetened, flour enough to make stiff 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 121 

batter, steam two hours. Cream butter and sugar, add soda to 
cooked apricots, then the milk and eggs. 

Dressing. — Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of 
cream, one tablespoon of lemon -extract. Cream butter and su- 
gar, then add cream and heat. — Mrs. Hugh Holmes. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, one cup of suet, 
chopped line, one cup of raisins, one cup of sour milk, one tea- 
spoonful of soda. A pinch of salt, flour enough to mix. — Miss 
Lizzie Price. 

BLACK PUDDING. 

On-e cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup of syrup, 
one cup of sweet milk, six eggs, one-half cup of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of soda. Steam one and one-fourth hours. Serve hot 
sauce. — Mrs. W. D. Ewing. 

FRUIT PUDDING. 

Two tablespoons of butter, four tablespoons of sugar, one- 
half tablespoon sweet milk, three eggs, one-half teaspoon of soda, 
one cup cooked fruit, not sweetened. Flour enough to make a 
stiff batter, apricots or peaches. 

Sauce for pudding. — One cup of sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one-half cup of cream, whipped up light, add flavoring to taste. — 
Mrs. C. W. Squires. 

FRUIT PUDDING. 

One cup of sugar, one egg, one-half cup of milk, one cup 
of flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder. Put fruit in bot- 
tom of pan, sprinkle with sugar and pour the batter over it. Bake 
about thirty minutes. — Mrs. W. O. Peters. 

PEACH SAGO PUDDING. 

Pour into a three quart pudding pan about three inches deep, 
one quart can of sliced peaches, wash three tablespoons of sago 
through several changes of water, cold, and put with peaches, 
add to this one-half cup of water and a small cup of sugar, cook 
five minutes or until it thickens, being careful not to allow the 



122 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

sago to settle to the bottom of pan and burn. Remove from fire. 
Prepare a biscuit dough as follows: Sift together one pint flour, 
one heaping teaspoon baking powder and a pinch of salt. Rub 
thoroughly into this a piece of butter the size of a small egg, add 
sweet milk enough to make a soft dough. Roll out, cut in strips 
and lay over top of the hot fruit and sago. Bake in quick oven. 
Cut in pieces according to the size of dishes served and with a 
fork lift the pieces out, turning them bottom side up on plates, 
pour the fruit over them and serve while warm, with cream. 
Any kind of canned or fresh fruit served in this way is very nice 
and makes a good substitute for pie. If a cold dessert is prefer- 
red, prepare the fruit as above mentioned (except that it should 
be cooked until done on the top of the stove, when not baked 
with dough.) Cut white loaf cake in cubes of two inches, put one 
on each plate, pour over it the fruit, and to one side put a spoon- 
ful of whipped cream or ice cream. — Mrs. Charles G. West. 

QUAKING PUDDING. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, one tablespoon of butter, one 
pint of stale bread crumbs, one-fourth cup of currants, one-half 
cup of seeded raisins, one-fourth teaspoon of salt, two table- 
spoons sugar, flavor with nutmeg. Butter the mold or pan 
thoroughly, using the tablespoon of butter, sprinkle the currants 
on the bottom and sides of the mold or pan. Beat together the 
eggs, sugar, salt and nutmeg, then the milk. Pour this mixture 
over bread and raisins, which are placed in alternate layers in 
the mold. Cover and let stand two hours, then steam one hour 
and fifteen minutes. Serve with the following sauce: 

One-half cup butter, one cup powdered sugar, one-fourth cup 
of cream or milk, one teaspoon of vanilla or lemon extract. Two 
tablespoons of cream. Beat sugar and butter untij very light and 
creamy; add the milk and vanilla and the cream. (One-half this 
sauce is enough for five people.) — Mrs. W. B. Irwin. 

RAISIN PUFF. 

Have buttered one dozen of the one-half pound baking 
powder tins and covers ready. Make a batter of one-half cup 
butter, two eggs, two cups flour, one cup of sweet milk, two 
tablespoons sugar creamed with butter, two heaping teaspoons 
of baking powder, one cup seedless raisins, one cup cherries 
(whole), one cup ground almonds or English walnuts, flour 



PRESIiYTERI AN COOK BOOK 123 

lightly and mix batter. Put in tins and place in steamer and 
steam for three-quarters of an hour. Serve hot, with the hard 
sauce and whipped cream.— Mrs. Cora Borton Ryder. 

NUT PUDDING. 

One cup molasses, one cup chopped suet, one cup sweet milk, 
one cup seeded raisins, one pound English walnuts, one-half 
pound figs, two and one-half cups of flour, one teaspoon of soda. 
Mix and steam two and one-half hours. 

Sauce. — Beat to a cream one-half cup of butter and one cup 
of powdered sugar, whip one cup of sweet cream and beat it 
into the butter and sugar. Put the whole in a double porcelain 
kettle and cook until it looks foamy and smooth. Flavor H 
taste. — Mrs. E. A. Garlick. 

BREAD AND APPLE PUDDING. 

Alternate layers one inch thick of bread crumbs and sliced 
apple, with bits of butter and sugar over each laj^er; a very little 
water. Have a sprinkling of crumbs, butter and sugar on top. 
Bake until apples are cooked. Serve with cream and sugar or 
any pudding sauce you prefer. Bread crusts or toasted stale 
bread make the best bread puddings. — Mrs. G. H. Randolph. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Three ounces of chocolate, one cup of sugar, one-fourth cup 
of water, melt together, and add while hot two eggs, whiles and 
yolks, beaten separately. After it cools add one pint of whipped 
cream. Pack in a pail in salt and ice for three or four hours. — 
Mrs. Andrew Tanner. 

COLD CABINET PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, yolks of six eggs, one-half box of gelatine, 
one dozen macaroons, one dozen lady fingers, one-half pound 
candied fruit, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup cold water, one 
teaspoon vanilla, one-third teaspoon of salt. Soak the gelatine in 
one-half cup of water, beat the yolks and sugar together, add one 
pint of milk, put the remainder of the milk on the fire in a dou- 
ble boiler and when it bubbles, add the eggs and cook until it 
begins to thicken. When you take it from the fire, add gelatine 
and salt. Put the boiler in cold water and when cold add the 



124 PRESBYTERIANCOOKBOOK 

vanilla, dip the fruit in the custard, dot the bottom of the mold 
with the fruit, put the custard over the fruit one-third of an 
inch thick, soak the cake in the custard and put on a layer. Re- 
peat process until all is used. — Mrs. Alfred DeLang. Contribut- 
ed by Mrs. Davenport. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

One quart flour, two tablespoons of baking powder, one-half 
teaspoon of salt, mixed well together. Add one large tablespoon 
of butter and lard mixed, and enough sweet milk or water tt> 
make a soft dough. Roll out into half inch sheets. Peel and 
quarter some good tart apples; put a quarter in a square of 
dough, sprinkle sugar over it and press the edges together firm- 
ly. Place in a deep pan. Sprinkle a little sugar and put a little 
butter in each dumpling. Fill the pan with boiling water, first, 
leaving the top uncovered. Bake forty-five minutes. — Mrs. W. 
B. Irwin. 

MARSHMALLOW PUDDING. 

Angel food cake, marshmallows, chopped nuts, whipped 
cream. Cut cake in squares and trim off edges, cover slice with 
whipped cream, then a layer of marshmallows, which must be 
very fresh, cut in small bits — the scissors are the best thing with 
which to do it — then another layer of whipped cream with the 
chopped nuts. This is a very good dessert when a heavy dinner 
has been served. — Mrs. Jonas Eckdall. 

MARSHMALLOW PUDDING. 

Twenty-five cents' worth of marshmallows melted, one cup of 
whipped cream, one cup of almonds, chopped very fine, flavor 
with vanilla. — Mrs. J. C. Jones. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Dissolve one-half box of gelatine in one pint of boiling water, 
wheja almost cold add the juice of two lemons and one cup of 
sugar. Place in a cool place when it begins to thicken, beat un- 
til very light, then add the whites of four eggs well beaten with 
one cup of sugar, then beat everything together thoroughly, 
about ten minutes, and put in a wet mold. For the custard, beat 
the yolks of four eggs and add to a pint of boiling milk. Sweeten 



PRESBYTERIAN COO'K BOOK 125 

to taste and flavor with lemon. Will serve eight people. — Mrs. 
J. E. Martin. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

To one pint of milk (nearly boiling) add two tablespoons 
corn starch moistened with a little of the cold milk, three table- 
spoons of sugar, one cup grated cocoanut and butter the size of 
a walnut. Boil all together for a minute or two and remove 
from the fire. Into this stir the well-beaten whites of two eggs. 
Turn into a mold to cool. 

Sauce. — One pint milk, two tablespoons of sugar, yolks of 
two eggs all cooked into a custard, and flavored with vanilla. 
Fresh or prepared cocoanut may be used. — Mrs. S. E. Jeremy. 

A DELICIOUS PUDDING. 

Scald one quart milk in a double boiler, add three table- 
spoons cream of wheat, one-half teaspoon of salt, tablespoon of 
sugar. Stir occasionally to prevent lumping. Cook about one- 
half an hour. Then mix one tablespoon corn starch in a little 
milk and add to other ingredients, stirring constantly. Beat 
three eggs, add yolks to the pudding and remove from the fire. 
Fold in the stiffly beaten whites and add vanilla. Serve with 
cream and sugar. — I. R. Ingram. Contributed by Mrs. E. M. 
Forde. 

GRAPE ROLL. 

Make a very rich biscuit dough and roll thin. Take fresh 
grapes, separate skins and pulp. Spread pulps on dongh thinly, 
sprinkle with sugar. Roll up like jelly-roll and bake. 

Sauce. — One cup sugar, one-half cup water, butter size of an 
egg, one tablespoon flour or corn starch. Boil sugar, water and 
butter together, thickened with the flour. Pour over grape 
skins and serve. — Miss Frances Miller. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Two-thirds cup of tapioca, two-thirds cup of sugar, butter 
size of walnut, w-hites of three eggs, pineapple or other fruit, 
whipped cream. Put the tapioca in a double boiler, poar over it 
a cup of boiling water. Keep the water in the lower part of 
vessel boiling and cook until the tapioca is clear — about an hour 



126 P U E 8 B y T E K I A N COOK BOOK 

— adding as much boiling water from time to time as the tapioca 
will take up. When the tapioca is clear and while it is still in 
the double boiler add the sugar and butter, a pinch of salt, and 
the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff, stirring all together. Pour 
over diced pineapple, or other fruit if preferred; stir enough to 
mix the fruit through tapioca; let cool and serve with whipped 
cream.— Mrs. P. B. Plumb. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

One cup of tapioca soaked over night. Let come to the boil 
slowly on back of stove. Tli-en add one and one-half cups of 
sugar until well melted, and one-half can of sliced pineapple and 
juice, juice of two lemons. Let this boil up well and add beaten 
whites of three eggs. Serve when cold with whipped cream. 

Whipped Cream. — Add to a half pint cream one-fourth of a 
cup of milk, four level tablespoonsful of powdered sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Whip with a cream or wire egg beater, un- 
til you have a stiff froth, keeping the dish holding the cream in 
a pan of ice. — Mrs. Frank Boynton, Chariton, Iowa. Contribut- 
ed by Mrs. W. E. Haynes. 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

One teacup of tapioca, one quart water, one teaspoon of salt. 
Soak over night, pour off water in the morning. Six good-sized 
tart apples, peel and quarter and steam until tender, pour over 
the tapioca one cup of hot water, have a dish one-third full and 
sprinkle with sugar. Bake one hour. To be eaten with hard 
sauce made of one-half cup butter, three-fourths cup sugar, 
white of one egg, beaten stiff. — Mrs. Sue Huestis. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

Whites of nine eggs, forty prunes, one cup of sugar. Stew 
the prunes until soft. Remove the seeds and chop the prunes 
fine, add the sugar to the prunes. Beat the whites until the dish 
can be turned upside down without spilling them. The success 
of the pudding depends on the eggs being stiff enough. Add the 
beaten whites to the prunes and sugar. Stir well and bake thir- 
ty minutes in a dish set in hot water. The oven should not be 
too hot, as the pudding should cook slowly. This makes a very 
large pudding, but the receipt is just as good if made smaller. 



PRESBYTERIAN COOKBOOK ' 127 

This pudding is delicious served with whipped cream or custard, 
or ice cream dressing made with the yolks of the whites used 
for the pudding. All the yolks will not be needed, however, as 
the custard dressing should be only a little thicker than float. 
The pudding is served either hot or cold, and the custard dress- 
ing may be served either hot or cold. — Mrs. J. E. Eckdall. 

CRANBERRY PUDDING. 

Three tablespoons butter, two-thirds cup sugar, two eggs, two 
cups flour, one and one-half teaspoons baking powder, one-third 
cup milk, one and one-half cups cranberries. Cream the butter, 
add sugar gradually and the eggs well beaten — not separately. 
Mix and sift flour and baking powder and add alternately with 
the milk. Stir in the cranberries, which have been cut in half. 
Pour in a buttered mold, cover and steam three hours. Or it 
may be baked in muffin pans. — Elizabeth Frances Greene, Drexel 
Institute, Philadelphia. 

LEMON CREAM PUDDING. 

Beat yolks of four eggs with four tablespoons of sugar; add 
juice and grated rind of one large lemon, and two tablespoons 
of hot water. Simmer until it thickens, and then remove from 
fire and stir in whites of four eggs, beaten stiff, with two table- 
spoons of sugar. Eat cold. Easily and quickly made. — Mrs. P. 
B. Plumb. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs, one cup sour 
milk, three-fourths teaspoon soda dissolved in boiling water. 
Serve with sauce made of one-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one 
tablespoon flour, one' pint of boiling water. Flavor. — Mrs. J. Q. 
Haynes. 

CHERRY PUDDING. 

Put one pint of well-sweetened cherries in a pudding dish, 
make a thick batter of two-thirds cup milk, one-third cup of but- 
ter, one-third cup sugar, one egg, one and one-half cups flour, 
one teaspoon of baking powder. Turn this over the cherries and 
bake about thirty minutes. Serve with cream. — Mrs. C. E. Little. 

FRAINA. 

Four eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. Cream two 



128 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

cups of sugar with the yolks, add one cup cream of wheat, one- 
half cup bread crumbs, mixed with two scant teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder. Then add one-half pound English walnuts. Fold 
in the stiffly beaten whites the last thing. Put in well greased 
pan and bake slowl}'. Serve with whipped cream. — Mrs. Harris. 

DATE PUDDING. 

One-half pound dates, cut fine, four tablespoons of melted 
butter, one-half cup molass-es, one-half cup sweet milk, a little 
salt, on-e teaspoon soda, dissolved in hot water, spices to taste, 
flour to make a stiff batter. Steam one and one-half hours in 
baking powder cans. 

Sauce. — One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, creamed together, 
add one well-beaten egg and stir all into a pint of boiling milk, 
flavor.— Mrs. J. R. Pet-ers. 

RICE PUDDING. 

One cup of cooked rice, one quart of milk, one cup of seeded 
raisins, one cup of sugar, yolks of four eggs, whites of two eggs, 
season with nutmeg or any flavoring desired. Bake in a slow 
oven; when done, whip the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, add 
two tablespoons of sugar, place on top of the pudding and brown 
lightly in a slow oven. — Mrs. E. R. Campbell. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Peel and cut five sweet oranges into small pieces, taking out 
the seeds. Pour over them a coffee cup of white sugar. Heat a 
pint of milk boiling hot by setting it in boiling water. Add the 
yolks of three eggs well beaten, one tablespoonful of corn starch, 
made smooth by a little cold milk. Stir all the time and as soon as 
thickened pour over the fruit. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, 
add a tablespoon of sugar, spread over the top, set in oven for 
a few minutes to harden. Eat cold or hot (better cold.) Ber- 
ries or peaches can be substituted for oranges. — Mrs. Ella Ire- 
land, Mrs. L. H. Barnes. 

EMPRESS PUDDING. 

One-half pound of rice, two ounces of butter, three eggs, jam, 
sufficient milk to soften rice. Boil the rice in the milk until very 
soft, then add the butter. Boil it for a few minutes after the lat- 



PUESI5YTKRIAN COOKBOOK 129 

ter ingredients are put in and set it by to cool, beat well the eggs, 
stir these in and line a dish with puff paste. Put over this a layer 
of rice, then a thin layer of any kind of jam. then another layer 
of rice and proceed in this manner until the dish is full, and 
bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. This 
pudding may be eaten hot or cold. It will be much improved by 
having a boiled custard poured over it. — ]Mrs. D. D. Jones. 

TRILBY PUDDING. 

One pound of marshmallows, cut each one in four squares, 
one-half pound English walnut meats, one pint whipped cream, 
candied cherries if desired. Keep in a cool place until ready to 
serve.^Mrs. Frank Boynton. 



130 PRE SB YTE RI AN COOK BOOK 

H. A. McCONNELL 
Painter and Paperhanger 

Telephone 815 

All Work Guaranteed 



Office Phone 980 



Residence Phone 388 



GEORGE CULBERTSOIV 

DEXTIST 



621 Commercial Street 



EMPORIA. KANSAS 



THEIiODE 



CLOTH 1 



^ (ShBANG 

emporia, kan. 



Plumbing and Heating 

No. 22 East Sixth Avenue 
EMPORIA, KANSAS 



Fritters 



"Now good digestion wait on appetite, and healtii on both." 

— Macbeth. 

This batter should be made an hour or so before using, as 
the flour grains swell and the fritters are much lighter. The bat- 
ter for all fritters is essentially the same and any fruit or vege- 
table can be used as desired. The batter requires a little more 
baking powder than baked batters, and the lard must not be as 
hot as for croquettes; about 320 degrees is right, as they must 
cook through before growing too brown. Fruit fritters are 
usually' served with a maple s^^rup. 

FRITTERS. 

One cup sour milk, thickened with flour the consistency of 
rather thick batter, beat in the yolk of one egg, a pinch of salt, 
one tablespoon melted butter, one-third teaspoon soda dissolved 
in a little hot water. Beat white stifif and fold in lightly. 

Sauce — One tablespoon butter to three tablespoons sugar, 
one-half tablespoon flour or corn starch and yolk of one egg. 
Beat all together until creamy, and add one-half pint boiling 
water. Let come to the boil and flavor. — Mrs. J. 'M. Steele. 

FRITTERS. 

Two eggs, one teacup flour, eight tablespoons water, one 
tablespoon lemon juice, pinch salt: put flour and salt in-well beat- 
en yolks, then add- a little at a time, the water and one table- 
spoon melted butter. Last, the well-beaten whites. Any fruits 
desired may be used with this batter, chopped apples, peaches 
or whole slices of bananas; apples may be dipped in batter and 
fried bj- spoonfuls in deep hot lard. — j\Irs. Ella F. Longenecker. 

PINEAPPLE FRITTERS. 

Make a batter same as for anj- fritters; take one large can of 



132 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

the best sliced pineapples, drain, wipe, cut in half. Mix care- 
fully with batter, covering each piece and fry. Have ready a 
hot syrup of sugar and pour over fritters. This amount will 
serve a dozen. — Mrs. Edward Borton. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Pare, core and cut the apples into cross slices one-fourth 
inch thick. Sprinkle each slice with nutmeg, dip in batter until 
each side is coated; drop gently into hot fat and cook a light 
brown, three minutes. Lay on paper and sprinkle with sugar. 

Batter — One cup flour, one-fourth teaspoon salt, two tea- 
spoons sugar, one-half cup milk, one teaspoon melted butter, 
two eggs. Mix drj' ingredients; while beating add butter. Beat 
eggs and add to the mixture. — L R. Ingram, contributed by Mrs. 
E. M. Forde. 

PRESERVED PLUM FRITTERS. 

Plums or other preserves should be cut in small pieces and 
masked in batter. A spoonful of marmalade or any stifif jelly can 
be treated the same way and they are delicious. — ^^Irs. A. S. New- 
man. 

PINEAPPLE SAUCE. 

Make a heavy sj'rup of a cup of sugar and one-half cup water; 
cook until it will hair. Strain and add juice from the pineapple 
and enough maraschino cherry juice to make a pint in all. — Mrs. 
A. S. Newman. 

VANITY FRITTERS. 

Beat two eggs, stir in a pinch of salt, one-half teaspoon rose 
water, add sifted flour until stifif enough to roll out, one teaspoon 
baking powder. Cut with a biscuit cutter and fry in hot lard. 
Dust with powdered sugar and put a spoonful of jelly on each 
one. 

GREEN CORN FRITTERS. 
Grate green corn from the cob, and allow one and one-half 
eggs and a tablespoon cream to each pint of grated corn. Add 
enough flour to hold together, season with salt and pepper and 
fry in deep fat. — Mrs. S. B. Riggs. 



PRESBYTERIAN COOKBOOK 133 

CELERY FRITTERS. 

Cut celery into four inch lengths and cook twenty minutes 
in salt water. Drain and wipe dry. Roll each stick well in bat- 
ter and fry. 

EGGPLANT FRITTERS. 

One medium-sized eggplant, slice and let stand in salt water 
two hours. Boil tender; drain^ mash and add one egg, one tea- 
cup milk, one-half pint flour, two-thirds teaspoon baking powder. 
Mix and fry in hot lard. If not a thick batter add more flour and 
baking powder. — jNlrs. J. McM. Taylor. 

CHICKEN FRITTERS. 
Take a small portion of chicken fricassee or any cold chick- 
en, free from bones and mi.x with ordinary fritter batter, then 
cook in deep, hot fat in the usual waj-. Do not make the fritters 
very large and serve with hot fried parsley. Veal may be substi- 
tuted for chicken. The parsley is fried in butter until it is crisp. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

One pint oysters. To one pint of milk add a little salt and 
pepper, one teaspoon baking powder, flour enough to make a 
thin batter. Stir in the oysters and drop from the spoon into 
hot lard. — Mrs. O. R. Cooke, Carnegie, Pennsylvania. 

CRUST CUPS. 

One-fourth pound flour, two eggs, one-half pint sweet milk. 
If for custards, add one teaspoon sugar, mix with beaten egg, 
using a fork, then add milk. Have mixture in cup or glass; it 
will make a thin batter. J\Iakes two dozen cups. Make your 
frying lard of one pound each suet and butter. Melt the butter 
and let it stand. Try out the suet and mix with butter; let 
stand and salt and buttermilk will settle to bottom of dish. Heat 
your timbal iron hot in the grease. Let it drain, then plunge 
slowly into batter, then very quickly into hot grease and let cook 
until a nice brown. — Mrs. Dodson's Cooking Class, contributed by 
Mrs. S. R. Edwards. 



134 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

The Success of your Cooking Depends Up- 
on Quality of the Material 

W. H. BROOKS, the Grocer 

Always has the Best 

If You Want to Put U p a Good Dinner 

BUY YOUR 

MEATS AND LARD 

OF 

Rauscher^ Phone 97 



WHITLEY HOTEL 

AMKRICAN PLAN 

Bates: $3. $-^::,0. $3 per day EATOX A- STEELE, Proprietors 

B. WHELDON 

Drugs 

Fine Flavoring Extracts 624 Commercial Street 



Croquettes 



"Who rises from a feast, 
With the keen appetite he sits down." 

— Merchant of Venice. 

The perfect croquette must have a crisp lightly browned crust, 
while the interior must be of a creamy consistency. The mix- 
ture should be finely chopped and carefully seasoned. Fish, oy- 
sters or anything having a strong individuality must not be sea- 
soned with herbs or its particular charm will be gone. Beef, 
veal or chicken can have parsley, thyme, celery or tobasco pep- 
per, even cloves or bay leaves, added to suit the taste. Cro- 
quettes must be just as soft as it is possible to handle them, mold- 
ed in pear or cylinder forms, dropped in beaten egg and rolled in 
cracker meal. Have the lard heated 360 degrees, or until bread 
will brown in it in twenty seconds, and deep enough to cover 
the croquettes. Fill a wire basket with them and immerse in the 
boiling fat. When delicately browned, lift the basket just out 
of the fat, knocking all superfluous fat off. Drain on paper. 

VEAL CROQUETTES— GENERAL RULE. 

Buy five pounds shoulder veal, boil until the meat drops from 
the bones. After the meat has cooked one hour, salt the water 
well, add pepper corns, a bay leaf or two, celery seed, or the 
fresh leaves, an onion if desired. There should be about two 
quarts of stock left after cooking. Strain, and to it add one and 
one-half pounds rolled crackers. Cook this until a very soft 
paste, adding water if necessarj'. Then add the minced veal, let 
cool and mold. Roll in egg and cracker crumbs and fry. Any 
other meat can be substituted for the veal, keeping the propor- 
tions the same. When there is no stock, use milk to cook the 
crackers in and add eggs to bind them together, about one to 
each pint of meat. This should make seventy-five croquettes. — 
Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 



136 P K E S B Y T E K 1 A N COOK BOOK 

MACARONI CROQUETTES. 

Put one-half package of macaroni with one tablespoon rice, 
one pint strained tomatoes, one tablespoon salt and a soup bone 
into a k-ettle and cover with water; boil until macaroni is tender, 
then drain out the macaroni and cut it up fine. Make a sauce 
of two tablespoons butter, two of flour and one-half pint milk, and 
to this sauce, add one-half pint oysters chopped fine, and a 
pinch of cayenne pepper. Add macaroni and mix thoroughly. 
When cold, mold into croquettes, dip into beaten egg, roll in 
cracker crumbs and fry in boiling lard. — Mrs. F. O. Lakin. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Thre-e and one-half cups chopped chicken, onion juice, one 
tablespoon chopped parsley, two teaspoons lemon juice. 

White Sauce — One pint cream and milk, one-fourth cup but- 
ter, one-half cup flour, one and one-half teaspoon salt, one-half 
teaspoon white pepper, one teaspoon celery salt, cayenne. Heat 
the cream in a double boiler, melt the butter, add flour and 
seasoning, and gradually the hot milk, stirring constantly to keep 
perfectly smooth, let it boil each time before adding more milk. 
Chop the chicken very fine, and add sauce to make as soft as can 
be handled. Pour on a platter to cool, then shape into cro- 
quettes, roll in sifted crumbs and fry in deep fat. Sometimes a 
beaten egg is addded to the sauce before adding it to the meat. — 
Elizabeth Frances Greene, Drexel Institute, Philadelphia. 

SALMON CROQUETTES. 

Remove all the bones and skin from one-half can of salmon 
and break in pieces, mash three medium-sized potatoes, season 
with salt and cayenne and mix well with the salmon. Form in- 
to croquettes, roll in egg and cracker crumbs and fry. Garnish 
with parsley and sliced lemon. — i\Irs. A. R. Taylor, Decatur, Illi- 
nois. 

CUSTARD CROQUETTES. 

One pint milk, one stick cinnamon, one cup sugar, one-fourth 
cup cold milk, two tablespoons corn starch, one tablespoon flour, 
yolks of three eggs. Boil the milk and cinnamon and add the 
remaining ingredients beaten together. Strain into a double 
boiler and cook fifteen minutes. Then add one teaspoon butter, 



F K E S B Y T E R I A N C O O K B O O K 137 

one t-easpoon vanilla. Pour one inch thick into buttered pans. 
When cold and hard, cut into cubes, roll in egg and crumbs and 
fry. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve. These are also 
good cold. — Mrs. Grace Brown, contributed by Mrs. S. B. Riggs. 

OYSTER CROQUETTES. 

Use the white sauce as in chick-en croquettes, add to each pint 
one pint of parboiled chopped oysters; form, dip in eggs and 

cracker meal. Fr^- in deep fat. 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES. 

]\Iash and sift cold boiled potatoes; to two cups of the potato 
add two beaten -egg yolks, one-half teaspoon salt and enough 
cream to make them soft enough to form. Roll in crumbs, eggs, 
crumbs again and fry in deep fat. — Good Housekeeping. 

CROQUETTES A LA JOSEPHINE. 

Mix thoroughly two cups mashed sweet potatoes, four table- 
spoons melt-ed butter, four tablespoons cream, one tablespoon 
chopped parsley, one-half teaspoon salt, a dash of cayenne; add 
the beaten yolks of two eggs and stir over the hre until the mix- 
ture leaves the sides of the saucepan, then cool. Chop fine one 
cup turkey or chicken meat, mixed with a little of the gravy and 
form into small balls, then surround these balls with the potato 
mixture, making larger balls of uniform size. Egg and crumb 
them, fry and serve with a cream sauce flavored with one tea- 
spoon Worcestershire sauce. — Mrs. H. E. Davenport. 

CHICKEN AND SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES. 

One quart cooked chicken cut fine, one pair sweetbreads, two- 
teaspoons salt, one pint milk, one-half teaspoon pepper, two 
tablespoons butter, two tablespoons flour, two eggs, one pint 
bread crumbs. Put m-lk in saucepan over the fire; when boiling 
add butter and flour well mixed. When cool, stir into it the 
salt and pepper, bread crumbs, chicken and sweetbreads, pre- 
viously blanched, boiled twenty minutes and cut fine. Beat the 
eggs and work into the mixture. Form as desired, roll in egg 
and cracker crumbs and iry. — Mrs. R. J. Edwards. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

Two cups rice, one quart milk, three-fourths cup sugar, but- 



138 PRESBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 

ter size of an egg, flavoring and a little salt. Soak rice three 
or four hours in water, drain and put in double boiler with 
the milk and salt. When thoroughly cooked, add eggs beaten 
with the sugar, butter and flavoring. When cool, form in small 
balls and fry. — Mrs. T. C. Watson. 

LIZZIE'S HAM CROQUETTES. 

One cup finely chopped boiled ham, one cup bread crumbs, 
two cups mashed potatoes, one tablespoon butter, three eggs, 
a dash of cayenne pepper. Beat ham, butter, pepper and two 
eggs into the potato. Shape and dip in the third egg, well beat- 
en, then in crumbs, fry. — Lizzie Blank, contributed by Mrs. J. M. 
Tanner. 

CROQUETTE SAUCE. 

One pint milk and cream heated in double boiler, one-fourth 
cup butter and one-half cup flour rubbed together, one teaspoon 
pepper, white, one teaspoon celery salt, dash of cayenne; add all 
this to the boiling milk, stir constantly until thick as heavy 
cream, adding a teaspoon or more of chopi»ed parsley as it is 
taken from the fire. — Mrs. D, D. Williams. 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Boil the potatoes in salted water, when done, drain thorough- 
ly, then mash. Form into long round slender molds, the shape 
of your finger, dip in egg, then cracker meal and fry in smoking 
hot lard. Do n ot have them too greasy.— Mrs. William B. Ir- 
win. 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 



139 



Do Not Take Chances 



In Baking 



It is worth a great deal 
to you to know that 
your cakes will come 
from the oven light, de- 
licious and wholesome. 
You will take no 
chances but be sure of 
perfect results if you 
use Lee Baking Pow- 
der. It stands every 
test for purity and effi- 
ciency. - 

The more you study your own interests 
the greater the demands for 




Hlvveiqht; 




E FOOD 
PRODUCTS 



' 140 pnESHYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 



MIT-WAY HOTEL 

EUROPEAN F>I_AINJ 




Steam Heat 



Sample Rooms 



"Good Things to Eat" 

Emporia, Kansas, A. L. T. 
O. n. WILHITE, Proprietor 

BUY YOUR BAKERY GOODS OF 

The Emporia Bakery 



Wholesale and Retail Bakers 



With eourtes}' we ask you to try our 
BREAD, CAKES, COOKIES AND PIES 



STINSON & COOPER 

Corner Ninth and Commercial 



Cheese 



"We are the stuff that dreams ar-e made of." 

CHEESE PUDDING. 

Butter the dish and cover the bottom with strong cheese, grat- 
ed, fill the dish with alternate laj-ers of bread sliced, and grated 
cheese. Make a custard with one egg and a little more than a 
pint of milk, little red pepp-er and salt. Pour over the bread and 
cheese, adding small pieces of butter. Bake half an hour and 
serve very hot. — Miss DeCamp. 

SCALLOPED CHEESE. 

In a buttered baking dish , alternate bread crumbs with layers 
of thin slices of cheese. To the crumbs add celery salt or chop- 
ped celery, pepper and small pieces of butter, crumbs last. Add 
a well beaten egg, and one-half i)int of rich cream. Bake in a 
hot oven. Whoever likes cheese will surely erjoy it this way. 
Serve hot. — Miss DeCamp. 



CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

Butter bottom of bake dish^ put in a layer of cheese, then 
layer of thin bread slices, then thick layer of cheese, so on un- 
til the dish is full; finish with light layer of cheese dotted with 
butter. One egg beaten light, one full pint milk, pepper and 
salt to taste; pour over the bread and cheese and bake twenty 
to thirty minutes. Cheese that is a little stale can be used; slice 
it very thin or run it through meat chopper. — Mrs. Ida Moore 
Irwin. 

CHEESE BALLS. 

Served with salad course; whites of four eggs beaten stiff, 
one large tablespoon flour, two cups grated cream cheese, little 
cayenne pepper, salt. Mix flour with cheese and then add the egg. 



142 PKESBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 

Shape into small balls, roll in sift-ed bread crumbs and fry in 
hot lard like doughnuts. — Blanche B. Stevenson. 

CHEESE FONCA. 

One cup grated bread crumbs, cover with one cup milk, add 
one tablespoon butter, one tablespoon salt, one egg beaten light, 
enough grated cheese to flavor. Bake in a pan until brown. — 
Mrs. Jennings. 

CHEESE DREAMS. 

Grate New York che-es€ and season highly with salt, paprika 
and a little mustard. Spread thin slices of bread with a little 
butter, then with the cheese mixture and the other slice of bread. 
Fry in butter and serve immediately with cofifee and olives. De- 
licious and indigestible. — Mrs. Carrie Jones Sauber. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

One cup grated cheese, one cup fresh bread crumbs, two- 
thirds cup flour, one tablespoon butter, one-fourth teaspoon salt, 
one-eighth teaspoon white pepper, cayenne, two tablespoons of 
milk. Cream the butter and flour, crumbs and grated cheese, 
then add seasonings, mix thoroughly, then add milk. Roll one- 
fourth inch thick, cut one-fourth inch wide and six inches long. 
Bake until brown in a moderately hot oven. — Elizabeth Frances 
Greene, Drexel Institute, Philadelphia. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

One cup grated cheese, one cup flour, one-half cup butter, 
one-half teaspoon salt, a little cayenne pepper; rub butter and 
flour together, then add cheese. Moisten with cold water, roll 
and cut in narrow strips. Bake in a slow oven. — Mrs. George 
Culbertson. 

CHEESE BALLS. 

Cheese balls made as follows are delicious served with salads. 
Mold into a ball with your hands a large teaspoon of some rich 
American cheese and press one-half of an English walnut on 
either side. Place one of these balls and an olive beside the 
salad on the plate.— Mrs. D. D. Williams. 



P K E S B Y T E R I A N COOK BOOK 143 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

Three tablespoons butter, three tablespoons flour, three-fourths 
cup milk, one cup grated cheese, one teaspoon salt. Bake like 
a custard. — Mrs. Charles Kirkwood. 

BAKED MACARONI AND OYSTERS. 

Break one-third of a package of macaroni in small pieces, 
drop into boiling water, salted, and keep at a galloping boil un- 
til tender. Drain and rinse well in cold water; then drain again. 
Pick over three dozen oysters of medium size, rinse and drain, 
then scald the liquor. Skim thoroughly and strain. Make a 
cup and a half of cream sauce using equal proportions of milk 
and the oyster liquor. Butter a deep dish and fill it with al- 
ternate layers of the macaroni, oysters, seasoning, a spoonful 
of chopped celery and sauce. Sprinkle the top with a third of 
a cupful of fine bread crumbs mixed with one teaspoon of melt- 
ed butter and brown in a quick oven. — Mrs. A. F. Higgins. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE. 

One-half pound cheese, two cups sauce for vegetables, one 
cup grated cheese, two cups buttered bread crumbs. Break mac- 
aroni into one inch pieces; cook forty-five minutes to one hour 
in a large amount of boiling salted water; when tender, pour 
cold water through it in a colander; make sauce, add cheese and 
macaroni to it and pour into a buttered baking dish, cover with 
crumbs and bake until brown. — Elizabeth Frances Greene, Drex- 
el Institute, Philadelphia. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE. 

Break macaroni into inch lengths, drop in boiling water 
which has been salted. Boil slowly until very tender; make a 
cream sauce of flour, butter and milk. Put a layer of the mac- 
aroni into a buttered bake pan, add the cream sauce and plenty 
of grated cheese. New York cheese preferred, then another layer 
of the macaroni, cream sauce, cheese and last of all browned 
bread crumbs and a little butter. Be careful not to have it too 
moist. Bake until brown in a moderate oven. — Mrs. E. N. Ev- 
ans. 

MACARONI WITH CHICKEN. 

Twelve sticks of macaroni broken into small pieces and wash- 



144 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

•ed. Cook in boiling water, keeping well covered with water, for 
two hours. Drain the water off and add one and one-half pints 
of chicken stock. Butter, salt, and p-epper to taste, stir up flour 
smooth and thicken macaroni; boil well, then a little while before 
serving add chicken cut up in small pieces. In place of the stock 
cold chicken gravy may be added; then bits of left over chicken. 
• — Mrs. William B. Irwin. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE. 

Six ounces of macaroni; drop in boiling water with a pinch 
of salt. Let boil half an hour. Grate one-fourth pound cheese,, 
place cheese and macaroni in alternate layers in baking dish, 
letting cheese come on top; cover with milk, place pieces of but- 
ter over whole. Put in ov-en and bake a light brown. — Mrs. C. 
E. Collett. 

SPANISH MACARONI. 

Put a tablespoon of lard or butter in a porcelain pan; when 
hot add on-e-fourth pound broken macaroni, half an onion, sliced, 
a large tomato silced, pepper and salt, a verry little cayenn-e pep- 
per. Stir until slightlj^ browned, then add a large cup of stock 
or hot water, boil until dry. More water may be added to cook 
macaroni tender. — ]\Irs. J. O. Graham. 



PKESBYTEKIAN COOK HOOK 145 

W. A. GIVIN 

REAL ESTATE, LOANS AND 
INSURANCE 

508 WEST SIXTH AVENUE EMPORIA. KANSAS 

I. E. LAMBERT W. L. HUGGINS 

Lambert & Huggins 

LAWYERS 

Office: Over Emporia National Bank 

Phone 156 Emporia, Kansas 

John S. Watson Carl E. Ballweg 

Watson-Ballweg Lumber Co^ 

Lumber and Coal 

Cornpr Sixth and Mechanic Emporia^ Kansas 

J. E. KINCAID 

DEALER IN 

Harness and Saddlery, Wagons and 
Buggies, Hardware, Etc. 

Successor to Loy & McDill Emporia, Kansas 



146 



P K K S B Y TE It I A N COOK HOOK 



Holds America's Highest Prixe 

BAKER'S 

Cocoa and Chocolate 




Kegistered U. S. Pat. Office 



Absolutely pure, with a 
most delicious flavor, made 
by a scientific blending of 
the best cocoa beans grown 
in different parts of the 
world. It is backed by 126 
years of successful manu- 
facture and by 46 highest 
awards in Europe and 
America — an unparalleled 
record of achievement. 



Be sure that you get the genuine with the tradc-marlc 
on the pacliage. 

Directions for preparing more than one hundred dainty 
dishes in our Choice Recipe Book, sent free on request. 

Walter Baker (Si. Co. Ltd. 

Established 1780. DORCHESTER. MASS. 



Sandwiches 



SANDWICHES. 

'"Besides they always smell of bread and butter." — Byron. 

Fresh bread is better than stale for sandwiches, but a sharp 
knife should be kept on hand for cutting it. Il is not a good 
idea to spread the slice before cutting it from the loaf, especial- 
ly if the sandwiches are to be served to gloved guests. Butter 
will invariably be left on the edges of the bread and the gu-ests 
will have reason to wish that sandwiches had not appeared as a 
part of their entertainment. An entir-e leaf of lettuce should not 
be used between slices. It is inconvenient to eat. The lettuce 
should be shredded and the hard portion of the leaf removed. 
For sandwich mixture all sorts may be utilized, but the blending 
of the ingredients and flavors is important. Meat or nuts 
should be chopped fine. Sandwiches made of marmalade or juicy 
fruit should always be serv-ed with a fork. Candied French 
fruits, chopped or ground fine and cov-ered with pineapple or or- 
ange juice make delicious sandwiches. 

CREAM CHEESE AND PARSLEY SANDWICHES. 

For Luncheon basket, tea table, evening companies and so forth. 

Wash the parsley, shake and dry in a cloth, then remove the 
stems and chop the leaves very fine. Add a tablespoon of the 
chopped parsley to half a cup of cream cheese; add a generous 
quantity of paprika and mix the whole thoroughly. Spread up- 
on slices of bread prepared for sandwiches, or upon butter thins 
or other wafers. Press together and serve as soon as possible. 
Decorate the serving plate with parsley. The cheese mixture 
may be shaped into balls and served with the crackers or plain 
bread and butter sandwiches. — Mrs. Dan Wicks. 

ONION SANDWICHES. . 

Cut bread very thin, removing all the crust. Bermuda or 
Spanish onions chopped fine and mixed with rich mayonnaise 



148 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

dressing and spread between buttered bread. Sardines can also 
be added for a change. — Mrs. A. F. Higgins. 

OLIVE SANDWICHES. 

Thin slices of bread, evenly buttered, cut hexagon shape. Be- 
tween each two slices place a layer of Neufchatel cheese, mixed 
to a paste with equal quantities of cream and salad dressing and 
covered thickly with chopped olives. — Ethel Williams. 

NUT SANDWICHES. 

Thin slices of entire wheat bread, cut circular and buttered. 
The filling should be made of chopped, roasted and salted pea- 
nuts, mixed with sufficient mayonnaise to spread easily. — Mrs. 
Walter McCoy. 

FILLING FOR SANDWICHES. 

Chop hard boiled eggs, celery, dill pickles and pimentoes, can- 
ned; mix with mayonnaise dressing and put between thin slices 
of bread. The Ralston bread is especially nice. — ]\Irs. D. F. 
Longenecker. 

EIBBON BREAD. 
To be served with oysters, salad or at five o'clock tea or card 

party. 

Cut Boston brown bread and white bread into slices of uniform 
thickness, about one-half inch thick. Spread a slice of white 
bread thickly with butter, and press upon it a slice of brown 
bread, also spread with butter, and upon it press a slice of 
buttered white bread. Use in all, five or six slices of bread, hav- 
ing the colors alternate. Trim ofif the crusts and slice as ordin- 
ary bread. — Mrs. Dan Wicks. 

HOT SANDWICHES. 

Take two parts of cold poultry and one of ham or tongue and 
chop. Heat it in a small saucepan with enough of any sauce that 
may be handy to moisten it; this may be a cream or brown, or 
giblet or tomato sauce, but it must be thick. Add a little curry 
paste; butter neat squares of bread, toast lightly in a quick 
oven and spread with this mixture and put slices together. — Mrs. 
A. F. Higgins. 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 149 

NUT SANDWICHES. 

Cut brown bread in thin slices, spread well with butter, chop 
or grind walnuts or English walnuts very fine. Spread between 
slices of bread. — ]Mrs. F. J. Dale. 

BEAN SANDWICHES. 

Brown or white bread maj'^ be used; spread with butter, mash 
baked beans, add a little vinegar or salad dressing and spread 
between the slices. — Mrs. F. J. Dale. 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES. 

Use freshly baked white bread, cut slices as thin as possible. 
Butter well, spread each slice with salad dressing, place lettuce 
leaf between each slice. — Mrs. F. J. Dale. 

CUCUMBER SANDWICHES. 

Make a delicious sandwich for a hot day by paring and chop- 
ping fresh cucumbers and combining wi'th iiiayonnaise dress- 
ing. — Mrs. Carrie Jon-es Sauber. 

A CLUB SANDWICH. 

Toast a slice of brown bread evenly and lightly and butter it. 
On one-half put first a thin slice of bacon which has been broiled 
till dry and tender, next a slice of white meat of either turkey or 
chicken. Over one-half of this place a circle cut from a ripe 
tomato, over the other half a tender leaf of lettuce. Cover these 
with a generous layer of mayonnaise and complete this delicious 
"whole meal" sandwich with the remaining piece of toast. — Mrs. 
A. F. Higgins. 

LAMB SANDWICHES. 

Put one and one-half cups roast lamb through the meat 
chopper, add to it a cup of celery cut very fine, also a half dozen 
olives, two cucumber pickles, a half cup of nuts; mince all very 
fine, add five tablespoons mayonnaise. Butter very thin slices of 
bread, removing all crust, and spread. — Mrs. A. F. Higgins. 

MAPLE SANDWICHES. 

Take an equal number of the slices of white and entire wheat 



150 PKESBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 

br-ead, stamped out circular. Butter and fill with maple cream 
and place together in pairs one of each kind of bread. Maple 
cream is prepared as follows: Take one-half pound of maple 
sugar, one-half pound brown sugar, one-half cup water and one- 
half teaspoon cream tartar. Boil these together until they form 
a soft ball when dropped into cold water. Pour out into a 
shallow platter and when nearly cold beat with a fork until thick 
and creamy.— Mrs. D. D. Williams. 

PINOLA SANDWICHES. 

Chop the pinolas from one small bottle of stuffed olives with 
half a dozen sour cucumber pickles. Spread thin pieces of bread 
with mayonnaise dressing and then with the above mixture and 
roll. — Mrs. Carrie Jones Sauber. 

/ HOT CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

/ These are particularly nice for Sunday evening tea and are 
a great favorite with men. Slice the bread thin and cut it round 
with a large biscuit cutter. Put a thick layer of grated cheese 
between the two forms, sprinkle with salt and a dash of cayenne 
pepper and press the round pieces of bread well together. Fry 
them to a delicate brown on each side in equal parts of hot lard 
and butter, and serve very hot. — Aliss Ella DeCamp. 

DESSERT SANDWICHES. 

Cut sponge cake into thin oblongs or squares. Put between 
two pieces a slice of vanilla ice cream that has been molded in 
brick form. Ornament the top slice of cake with whipped cream, 
sweetened and flavored.— Mrs. A. F. Higgins. 

NUT-GINGER SANDWICHES. 

Take three long thin slices of bread, buttered. Between the 
first and second, place a layer of chopped, preserved ginger, mix- 
ed with cream, and between the second and third slice a layer of 
chopped English walnuts, then tie up each sandwich neatly with 
baby ribbon. — Mrs. D. D. Williams. 

CHICKEN SALAD SANDWICHES. 

Between two thin oblong slices of bread, buttered, place a 
layer of chicken salad on a lettuce leaf. In making chicken salad 



PKESBYTEKIAN COOK HOOK 151 

for sandwiches chop the chicken and celery much finer than for 
ordinary purposes. — Mrs. R. \V. Jeremy. 

HAM SANDWICHES. 

Slice ham very thin, spread with a taste of mixed mustard or 
horse-radish and lay between buttered and thinly sliced bread. 
Ham can be ground up with one-third beef or other meat and 
mixed with mayonnaise, or ground and mixed with an equal 
amount of mayonnaise and spread between thin bread and but- 
ter. — Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 



152 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 



BRIGHTEN UP YOUR HOME WITH 



9?yeyic 




HOUSEHOLD LACQUER 



It will quickly give old furniture, floors and woodwork a finish and brilliancy equal 
to new. Anyone can apply it. It issold in convenient packages ready for use in 




Light Oak 


Walnut 


Eosewood 


Dark Oak 


Mahogany- 


Eich Eeci 


Cherry- 


Moss Green 


Clear 



DEALER 



manufacti;bed by 

Standard Varnish Works 

CHICAGO NEW YORK LONDON 

International Varnish Company, Ltd., Toronto, Canada 



To the Ladies 



We believe you are all good cooks, but there come times when 
you are too busy, or want to go visiting, and right here is where we 
want to call your attention to Mrs. Humphrey's homemade bread, 
boiled ham, lunch ham. A fine assortment of Cakes, Pickles, Olives, 
Salmon, Peanut Butter, etc. ' A Word tothe Wise." 



Indfyendent Oil and Gasoliiie 



831 CommerciaLl 



The Hustler 



TURKISH CANDY COMPANY 



RU RM IS M ES 



Cream in Brick and all Other Styles 

Give Us a Call and See 



523 Commercial Street 



Telephone 254 



Eggs 



PLAIN OMELET. 

Put three eggs and thr-ee tablespoons water into a bowl and 
beat just enough to mix the yolks and whites. Put a level table- 
spoon butter into an omel-et pan, shake over the tire until melt- 
ed, but not browned, put in the -eggs and shake constantly over 
a quick fire until set. Take from the fire and sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. With a limber knife roll it up from you and turn out 
on a hot platter. It is better to make several small omelets than 
one large one. — Mrs. W. H. Cool. 

FEATHER OMELET. 

Separate six eggs, beating very light. To the well-beaten 
yolks add a scant pint of milk, one-half teaspoon salt, small piece 
of butter. Fold the stififly beaten whites in the last thing and 
pour into a hot, well-buttered pan. Cook on top of the stove 
until s-et, then put in the upper part of oven until lightly browned. 
Minced hain or bacon, asparagus tips or minced parsley may be 
folded in this omelet as a variety. All should be cookea iirst but 
the parsley. — Mrs. Davenport. 

CREAMED EGGS FOR LUNCH, 

One-half dozen hard boiled eggs cut in halves; put them in hot 
dish in the oven and pour over them the following sauce: One 
tablespoon butter, two tablespoons flour, rubbed together, add 
slowly one-half pint milk, seasoned with pepper and celery salt 
and one tablespoon minced parsley. When the consistency of 
heavy cream, pour over the eggs and serve at once. — Miss Flor- 
ence De Camp. 

EGG TURNOVERS. 

Soak one cup of stale bread crumbs in milk over night. In 
the morning squeeze out all the milk. Beat the yolks of four 
eggs very light and add to the bread, season with salt and pep- 



154 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

per. The last thing before baking, fold in carefully the four 
whites beaten stiff. Bake on a griddle the same as pancakes, but 
in place of turning, fold the one side over the same as an egg 
omelet and serve immediately. These must be eaten as taken 
from the griddle as they fall if left standing. Oysters chopped 
fine, or bits of ham or bacon put through the grinder and added 
make a nice change. — Mrs. William B. Irwin. 

RICE OMELET. 

One cup cold boiled rice, four teaspoons milk, two eggs, 
whites and yolks beaten separately, little salt; heat a table- 
spoon butter very hot in a frying pan, pour in the mixture, cover 
and cook same as other omelet. Turn out carefully on a hot 
platter. — Mrs. Frank Burnorem. 

OMELET SOUFFLE. 

One cup flour, one pint milk, one spoon sugar, butter size of 
walnut. Scald milk , flour and butter together. After the batter 
is cold stir in the yolks of five eggs. Fold in the beaten whites 
just before baking. Bake in a quick oven. Serve with cream 
sauce. — Mrs. C. C. McConnell. 

EGG TOAST. 

Toast and butter your bread. Thicken milk just a little and 
season; then add the chopped whites of hard boiled eggs. Pour 
this over the toast. Put the hard boiled yolks through a fruit 
sieve and drop on top as a finish. — Mrs. E. M. Carney. 

EGGS BAKED WITH CHEESE. 

In a flat earthen dish melt one teaspoon butter and let it run 
over the bottom of the dish. Cover with thin slices of cheese and 
dust with white pepper and a little salt. Break in carefully as 
many eggs as the dish will hold and place in a hot oven until the 
whites are set. Then serve at once. — Miss DeCamp. 

JELLIED EGGS. 

Into a jar which has been heated with hot water place two 
quarts of boiling water and into this put six eggs. Cover with a 
folded cloth and a plate and let stand fifteen minutes; the eggs 



PRESBYTERIANCOOKBOOK 155 

will be nic-ely cooked. If more eggs are wanted, use more water 
and a larger jar. — Mrs. M. Pickett. 

DEVILED EGGS. 

Cut hard boiled eggs in halves. Take out the yolks and add 
p-epper, salt, finely chopped onion, and mustard to taste; add a 
little vinegar to moisten and rub smooth and return to the 
whites. — Mrs. Fred Protheroe. 

CREAMED EGGS. 

Into a double boiler put half cup of cream or rich milk, br-eak 
from five to ten eggs and add slowly to the hot cream, stirring 
all the time until thick as cream. Add butter, salt and pepper to 
taste. Serve at onc-e. — Mrs. William B. Irwin. 

DATE OMELET. 

Beat the yolks of three eggs until lemon colored, add three 
tablespoons of powdered sugar and the juice of half a lemon. 
Fold in carefully the stiffly beaten whites of six eggs and finally 
twelve dates cut in quarters. Turn into a buttered baking dish 
and bake until golden brown. Serve immediately. — C. V. H. 

FRIED EGGS. 

Fry slices of bacon, when crisp as desired, drain off the extra 
fat, break one egg on each slice, let cook until white is set. Then 
lift bacon and eggs together, carefully to platter. — Mrs. F. J. 
Dale. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Break and drop one at a time into boiling water, well salted. 
Cover and place pan where it will not boil. When done take up 
with perforated spoon. — ]\Irs. R. J. Edwards. 



156 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

J, C. Dumm Furniture Co, 



DEALERS IN 



Furniture, Carpels, UndcrtaKing 

Complete Assortment of the Best 
flakes Always on Hand 

Inspection and Comparison Invited 
J. C. DUMM FURNITURE COMPANY 



21 and '23 West Si.rth Avenue EMPORIA. KANSAS 




Fred F. 


Kopke Dept. Store 




DEALERS IX 


Tinware 


Queensware Shoes 


Graniteware 


Crockery IO-c?nt Department 


Galvanized Ware 


Lamps 5-cent Department 


Washing Machines Flower Pots Men's Work Clothes | 


Rope 


Glassware Groceries 


Machine Oils 


Varnishes Flour 


Cutlery 


Brushes Fancy Tea 


Oil and Gas Cans 


Garden Seeds Coffee 


The 


Fastest Growing Store 




in Lyon County 


Telephone 146 


EMPORIA. KANSAS 



Chafing Dish 



"This dish is too good for any but ang«ls or very honest men." 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

One pint oysters, one pint milk, one-half tablespoon butter, 
one-half tablespoon flour, one-half teaspoon salt, paprika and 
white pepper. Rub flour and butter together, add to hot milk, 
season, beat until creamy, add oyst-ers which have been drained. 
Cook until edg€s of oysters curl. Serve on strips of buttered 
toast. — Miss JNIabel McLelland Stone. 

EGG OMELET. 

Take one-fourth cup of sweet milk and one tablespoon oyster 
liquid; season with butter, salt and pepp-er. Place over fire just 
at boiling point, thicken with flour rather stiff, drop in six large 
oysters cut in two. and remove from fire. B-eat three eggs, whites 
and yolks separately, adding one and one-half tablespoons cream, 
also salt and pepper to yolks. Into the hot blazer pour yellow 
mixture and then the oyster sauce and fold in the white of the 
eggs. Have blazer well buttered and cook until whites are per- 
fectly stiff. Roll and serve. — Mrs. George W. Taylor, Galveston, 
Texas. 

CELERIED OYSTERS. 

One pint oysters, one-third cup melted butter, one-half cup 
fine cracker crumbs, one and one-half cups thin white sauce, 
two stalks celery, cut fine, four slices toast; wash oysters, drain 
and dry, salt and pepper; dip in the melted butter, then in crack- 
er crumbs. Cook in hot buttered chafing dish. Arrange on toast 
and pour sauce over them. 

Sauce — Melt two tablespoon butter, one-fourth each salt and 
pepper, two tablespoons flour, then add gradually one cup scald- 
ed milk. — Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 



158 P R E S B Y T E R I A N (J O O K B O O K 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Select large oysters, rinse quickly and lay carefully in colander 
to drain. Spread on baking board and pat each one gently until 
dry. Dip each oyster in egg and then cracker crumbs. For one 
and one-half dozen oysters us-e two eggs, one-fourth teaspoon 
pepper and one-half teaspoon salt. Have blazer smoking hot 
and use one-half as much butter as lard. Do not crowd oysters. 
—Miss Hannah M. Edwards. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

Pick over, wash and drain fifty oysters into a chafing dish. 
Put one heaping tablespoon salt, a dash of paprika and ten 
drops of Worcestershire sauce. Turn in the oysters, light the 
lamp, cover and cook over full blaze, stirring occasionally till 
oysters are plump and edges ruffled. Extinguish the lamp and 
serve on saltines. — Miss Luella Taylor. 

BOSTON OYSTERS. 

Fill hot water pan with liquor from one quart of oysters. Sea- 
son with salt, pepper and butter. When plump and curled at 
edge, dip out and serve on toasted squares of graham bread. — 
Mrs. Ida Moore Irwin. 

WALDORF OYSTERS. 

One pint oysters, one cup cream, one cup cooked celery, one 
cup cracker crumbs, two tablespoons butter, salt, white pepper 
and paprika. Put into the hot water pan the cream, butter, cel- 
ery, and seasoning. When hot, add oysters, cook until edges of 
oysters curl. Add cracker crumbs and extinguish lamp immed- 
iately. Serve with cold beaten biscuit. — Miss Luella Taylor. 

CREAMED CHICKEN. 

Two cups cold chicken, one cup chicken stock, one cup milk 
or cream, two tablespoons butter, one heaping tablespoon flour, 
salt and pepper; melt the butter in chafing dish; add chicken and 
stock when butter begins to brown. Then the flour, stirred into 
the milk. Season and serve on toast. — Miss Elizabeth Haynes. 

CHICKEN TERRAPIN. 

Two cups boiled chicken, cut in dice, two stalks of celery 



PKESBYTERIAN COOKIJOOK 159 

chopped fine, one-half small onion chopped fine, two and one- 
half cups rich milk, one tablespoon butter, one tablespoon flour, 
one-half teaspoon salt and pepper, scant teaspoon kmon juice; 
place butter in blazer and brown. Sift in flour, ruD well together, 
place over boiling water, add celery and onion and cook several 
minutes. Then add the chicken, salt and pepper, and just before 
removing, add egg and lemon. If too thick, thin with chicken 
gravy. Serve on toast or in patties. — Miss Helen Little. 

FRICASSEE OF DRIED BEEF. 

One cup beef chopped fine, one tablespoon butter, two -eggs, 
one-h^lf pint cream; melt the butter in blazer, add beef when it 
begins to brown then put in the eggs beaten in the cream. Cook 
until the sauce is thick. Serve on toast. — Miss Elizabeth Hay- 
nes. 

CREAMED SALMON. 

Melt two tablespoons butter in the blazer over hot water, add 
two tablespoons sifted flour, seasoning of salt, pepper and cay- 
enne, and one pint of hot milk. When smooth and thick, stir in 
one cup of canned salmon, one cup finely chopped peanuts and 
the whites of six hard boiled eggs, chopped fine. Serve hot on 
buttered toast. — iNliss Blanche Miller. 

CODFISH AND EGGS. 

Freshen salt codfish and pick into small pieces. Place in the 
blazer with a tablespoon of thick cream, pepper to taste, some 
truffles cut fine, one egg to each cup fish; when heated through, 
serve. — Miss Blanche Miller. 

SWEETBREADS WITH PEAS. 

Can of peas, three small sweetbreads, one teaspoon butter, 
one-half pint beef stock, celery leaf, salt, white pepper. One- 
half teaspoon brown flour. Stand the sweetbreads in cold water 
for one hour; then parboil and remove rough edges, membranes, 
sinews and so forth. Put in cold water and keep on ice till want- 
ed. Put into the chafing dish the butter and sweetbreads; when 
the butter has been absorbed add one-half pint stock and the cel- 
ery leaf chopped fine, the salt, pepper and browned flour. Turn 
the sweetbreads. When the same is reduced one-half, it is ready. 



160 PRESBYTEK IAN COOK BOOK 

When cooking, open a can of green peas. Warm thoroughly in 
the chafing dish; put in salt, pepper and a tablespoon of butter. 
Serve peas and swe-etbreads together. — Miss Ethel Williams. 

POACHED EGGS WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Take the juice of one-half can tomatoes, or five fresh ones, 
one stalk celery chopped fine, one-fourth onion chopped fin-e, 
one-half teaspoon salt, one-fourth teaspoon red pepper, one table- 
spoon butter, one tablespoon flour, one-half cup milk, five eggs, 
a pinch of soda. Cream butter and flour in the blazer, add the 
tomato juice, celery, onion, salt and pepper and let mixture boil. 
Stir in pinch of soda and the milk. Have the eggs ready, in the 
poacher, and drop into the hot water pan. Place the eggs on 
buttered toast and surround with the tomato sauce. Garnish with 
parsley. — Miss Helen Little. 

INDIA CURRIED ONION. 

Fry sliced onions in butter; salt well, add one teaspoon of 
curry, two raw eggs, a few drops of lemon juice. Serve hot. — 
Miss Blanche Miller. 

BROWN EGGS. 

Three eggs, one-half teaspoon sauce, one-half teaspoon but- 
ter, one-half cup stock or gravy, salt and pepper. Place butter 
in food pan over boiling water and stir in stock or gravy, eggs, 
little salt and pepper, Worcestershire sauce; stir continually and 
serve on strips of toast. — Miss Ethel Williams. 

LENOX RABBIT. 

Melt one tablespoon butter, add one cup milk, one teaspoon 
salt, one-fourth teaspoon pepper and a few grains cayenne. Beat 
six eggs slightly, add to the milk when heated and cook the same 
as scrambled eggs. When nearly done add one five cent cream 
cheese, worked until smooth. Serve on toast. — Miss Blanche 
Miller. 

GLORIFIED RAREBIT. 

Put one teaspoon butter in hot blazer, without hot water pan, 
add one-half teaspoon salt, one-fourth teaspoon paprika and 
same of mustard. When hot, add one cup cream or rich milk 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 161 

then add one cup soft bread crumbs; when this boils add one 
cup fresh che-ese cut into bits, or run through coarse 
knife or meat chopper, and let it melt; then add three well beaten 
eggs, stir for a minute or two and serve on hot buttered toast 
or crackers. Place hot water pan filled under the blazer to keep, 
it hot while serving. — Mrs. Ida Moore Irwin. 

BABOON. 

Take a quart of tomatoes, carefully selected for their flesh. 
Drain oflf the juice through a colander; put the flesh into a fry- 
ing pan and for a minute or two cook otif the remaining juice, 
stirring carefully. Break into this as many eggs as there are 
people, allowing five for a quart, and stir the mixture well. Al- 
low it to cook until the eggs throughout the mixture cook a 
little. Add a spoonful of onion juice or a small-sized onion, slic- 
ed thin, salt and a dash of red pepper. Serve hot with wafers. — 
Mrs. Chester H. C. Dudley. 

GOLDEN BUCK. 

One pound cheese melted in one teaspoon of butter, one small 
cup milk, one egg beaten. Thicken with flour and water and add 
a pinch of baking powder to thickening. Salt and pepper. — Miss 
Edith Ingram Cheney, Eton, New York. 



162 PRESBYTER IAN COOK BOOK 

S. B. RIGGS 

Abatrartrr anb Ixamtnpr nf SitlpB 



NO. B EAST SIXTH A V E: N U € 



REPRESENTS A GOOD LINE OF INSURANCE COMPANIES 



Treats all Diseases of Domestic 
Animals 



Veterinary Dentistry and Surgery 
a Specialty 



W. H. RICHARDS 

Urt^rtnary B'unicmt 

Graduate Ontario Veterinary College, Class of '87 
Office and Hospital: 218 ]V. Fifth Arenue EMPORIA. KANSAS 





J. O. GRAHAM 
Coal and Wood 



819 Commercial 



Telephone 121 






g"^ 



The Sorth End Cafe 
Good Things to Eat and:Drink Carl E, Znox Pro rietor 



Quantities 



Department of Quantities, compiled by Mrs. R. J. Edwards and 
Mrs. R. W. Jeremy. 

The following estimate of quantity sufficient to s-erve forty 
people will probably be helpful to those in charge of receptions, 
suppers and so forth: 

BREAD. 

Two ten-cent (two pounds each), loaves of bread, (one serv- 
ing) 

On« quart liquid made into Parker House rolls. 

BUTTER. 

One poimd butter will make forty sandwiches. 

BEANS. 

One gallon crock of baked benas. 

BEVERAGES. 

. One pound JMocha and Java coffee. 
One-eighth pound best tea. 

CAKES. 

Three angel food, large or full recipe. 
One Perfection or Bride, full recipe. 
Two dark cakes, baked in square tins. 

ICE CREAM. 

Five quarts, in one quart brick molds. 

CREAM. 

Three pints cream for coffee. 



164 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

MEATS. 

Chickens for Turbot — Six, of three pounds each. 
Chickens for Salad — Two, of three pounds -each. 
Chicken for Pie — Six, of three pounds each. 
Chicken Pressed — Four, of three pounds each. 
Four ten-pound turkeys, three quarts cranberry jelly. 
One ten-pound ham. 

Six pounds beef and one-half pound butter for loaf. 
Six pounds veal and one pound pork for veal loaf. 

OYSTERS. 

One gallon escalloped. 

Three pints olives; one quart bottle gherkins. 

SHERBET. 

Two gallons will serve forty people. 

SALADS. 

Two lobsters to every quart of salad. 

Three pounds fresh salmon for twenty-five people. 

One pair of shad-roe for eight people. 

One pound of sweetbread for eight people. 

BOUILLON. 

One quart of hot bouillon for eight people. 
One quart jellied bouillon for six people. 

LEMONADE. 

Ten quarts for fifty people. 

COFFEE. 

Forty cups to*a gallon. 

TEA. 

One gallon for fiftj" people. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Twenty-five to thirt}' cups to a gallon, one-half pound choco- 
late. 



PKESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 165 

OLIVES. 

Two hundred in a quart bottle. 

Whipped cream, one quart will yield twenty-five spoonfuls. 

Loaf sugar, one pound for twenty-five people. 

Sugar for berries, two pounds for fifty people. 

Wafers, served with other cakes, three boxes to fifty people. 

Plum pudding, one pound to four people. 

Fruit cake, three to six ounces make one serving. 

Bonbons, one pound for sixteen people. 

Salted nuts, one and one-half to two pounds for twenty-five 
people. 

Twenty-five timbales or patties may be filled from one quart 
of mixture. 

One and one-half quarts meat makes croquettes for twenty- 
five people. 

Potato chips, two pounds serve thirty to forty people. 

Four oysters to a person unless chopped, then two quarts 
will serve twenty-five people. 

Welsh rabbit, three pounds of cheese for ten people, varying 
greatly with the cheese and recipe used. 

Twenty-four sandwiches can be counted to a loaf. 

One pound of butter to three loaves, one cup of paste and 
butter to a loaf. One pint of other filling to a loaf. 

A fourteen pound ham, boiled, ground and mixed with two 
quarts mayonnaise dressing will make seven hundred sandwiches. 

Most roasts weigh two to two and one-half pounds more raw, 
than after cooking. 

Allowing one quart of a finished product to serve six or eight 
people, one can estimate the serving capacity of any recipe by 
adding the amounts of the ingredients, making allowance for the 
dissemination of liquid or semi-liquid dressings and sauces and 
sometimes of loss in prolonged cooking. 



166 PKESBYTKKIAN COOK BOOK 

How to Serve a Dinner 

For luncheons and dinners the round table is most in favor. 
Square tables can be equipped with a round removable top at 
small expense, by any carpenter. The table linen should be as 
fine as can be afforded, but at any rate it must be spotless, well 
ironed, but not starched. Centerpieces are best of wasb 
materia], embroidered or drawn work. Any seasonable flowers 
or a dish of growing ferns are always satisfactory. Fruits can 
be substituted for the flowers. If candles are used there should 
be enough to light the whole room, as the effect is not pleasing 
when reinforced by gas or electricity. 

In setting the table, lay an "inside plate" for each guest; this 
serves to' hold the soup and oyster plate in turn; the napkin is 
laid either on this plate or at the left side. The dinner bread 
is often tucked in the fold, but never hidden. On the right of 
the plates, lay the oyster fork, a silver knife for fish, or as many 
knives as will be needed for the meal; turn edges of knife to 
the plate. On the left of the plate place the forks in the order 
they are to be used. The soup spoon may be placed in front of 
the plate or with the knives. 

Glasses are placed at the right of the plates. Salts and pep- 
pers should be placed between every two guests, unless the in- 
dividual ones are used; they should go to each plate and be pro- 
vided with a. tiny spoon. Oil, vinegar, mustard and butter are 
passed from the serving table as needed. 

The carving for formal dinners is done in the kitchen, and 
vegetables are placed on the plate with roast or entree, one or 
two at a course. Servants should approach the guest on the left 
side, placing the plates with the right hand and removing them 
with the left. The guest at the host's right should be served first 
and the rest in regular order. 

An eight-course dinner would proceed thus: 

First course — Oysters or clams in some way, or in summer a 
fruit cocktail, cantaloupes, grapefruit and so forth. 

Second course — Soup, either clear or puree, toasted crackers 
with the first, or croutons with the latter. 

Third course — Fish with potatoes in some form. 

Fourth course — Entree with one vegetable. 

Fifth course — Roast with potatoes and one fresh vegetable. 

Sixth course — Salad with snowtiake crackers, or thin strips 
of buttered bread. 



PRESBYTERIAN COOKBOOK 167 

Seventh course— Dessert of sweet dishes or ices, followed by- 
table confections, nuts, dates, piralines and so forth. 

Eighth course — Cheese and crackers, and black coffee in 
small cups. 

Olives and celery are passed after the soup; salted nuts can 
be used at any time during the meal. 

Punch is served after the roast. 

Before the dessert, all dishes that will not be used again are 
removed, and the crumbs cleared away with a silver crumb 
knife or a fresh napkin. 

There is little difference between a formal lunch and a din- 
ner, except the time, which can be anywhere from twelve to one 
o'clock. 

If the affair is informal, and the table is well polished, the 
cloth can be dispensed with and doilies of various sizes used 
instead. Place a bread and butter plate at the left of the service 
plate and around the centerpiece, within easy reach of the 
guests, place the olives, nuts, and so forth, which are taken at any 
time without formality. Even at formal luncheons the hostess 
may serve the dessert or pour the coffee. 



168 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 



r 




The nine largest Ranges in Emporia 



are 



MAJESTICS 



which means simply this: The users bought them be- 
cause they knew the MAJESTIC would do the work 
and be the most economical in the long- run. Ask 
any MAJESTIC user about this range— or better, 
come and see it. 



SOLD ONLY BY 



PETERS HARDWARE CO. 



EMPORIA'S BUSY CORNER' 



Cakes and Fillings 



CAKE. 



"Serve no more to every guest, 

Than he is able to digest; 

Give him always of th-e prime, 

And but little at a time." — Swift.. 

FORMULA FOR MIXING CAKE. 

Cream the butter thoroughly before adding the sugar, which 
should be sifted, either granulated or powdered, then beat well 
if you desire fine-grained cake. If yolks of eggs are used, add af- 
ter the butter and sugar, then the milk a little at a time. Mix 
thoroughly the baking powder with the flour by sifting at least 
twice. Whites of eggs are stirred in lightly the last thing; 
should be beaten previously to a stiff froth. 

CAKE HINTS. 

In cake making use always the enameled or earthen ware for 
mixing, also one of sufficient size to insure easy mixture of in- 
gredients. Never use tin; it will invariably give a white cake a 
dark tinge. For beating, use a split or perforated spoon. The 
beating motion is preferable to stirring, until ready to fold in 
the whites of the eggs as lightly as possible. Cakes containing 
butter need at first not too quick an oven; heat can be increased 
when the cake begins to rise well. One hour of gradual heat is 
necessary for a good-sized loaf. If fruit is used, longer time is 
required. When a cake is done it begins to break away from 
the edges of the pan. If butter gets too warm, chill it again 
slightly; never use oily butter as this will change both texture and 
flavor of cake. Pastry flour is preferable, especially for white 
cake. Hard beating makes cake of fine grain. Lard is better 
for greasing baking pan; grease well bottom and sides to prevent 
cake sticking. Have ready on baking table or board, clean white 
manila paper; when cake is taken from oven, turn pans upside 



170 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

down on paper to steam and gradually loosen the pans. Yolks 
of eggs will keep a day or two in a cool place by covering with 
cold water. All measures should be even or level. Divided re- 
ceipts should have great care taken in measurements. Many 
cakes are failures because the eggs are not beaten stifT enough. 
If cake cracks open in the center while baking, the recipe con- 
tains too much flour or has baked too quickly on top. If the 
oven is too hot a cup of hot water will reduce the temperature. 
Open and close oven do'or carefully while baking. Some say 
the cake is less liable to fall if the sides of the pan are not greas- 
ed. 

BURNT CARAMEL CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, two eggs, 
two cups flour, one cup water; beat about five minutes, add well 
beaten whites of eggs, one-half cup flour, reserved from above, 
with two teaspoons baking powder, three teaspoons burnt su- 
gar, one teaspoon vanilla. For burnt sugar part, put one-half cup 
sugar in a pan on stove, stir and let it melt until dark brown, then 
add a little water and boil until like sugar syrup; it will be dark 
brown and taste bitter or burnt. Put cake together with icing, 
using whites of eggs, to which you have added one or two' tea- 
spoons burnt sugar. — Mrs. John Graham, Mrs. Nellie Morgan. 

ORANGE COCOANUT CAKE. 

Beat to a cream one and one-half cups sugar and one-half cup 
butter, then add one cup milk and two cups flour sifted, and 
mix well; add two teaspoons orange extract and mix again; whip 
the whites of four eggs, mix well together two-thirds cup flour 
and three teaspoons baking powder; put this with the whites of 
eggs and stir all together. Bake in jelly tins. — Mrs. F. D. Mac- 
Arthur. 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE. 

/^, One cup sweet cream, one cup sugar, one and one-half cups 
flour, two eggs beaten separately, one heaping teaspoon baking 
powder, a little salt; flavor with lemon. Bake in two layers and 
put together with jelly or jam before it gets quite cold. — Mrs. 
G. W. Newman. 

A GOOD SPONGE CAKE. 

Twelve eggs beaten separately and well, weight in sugar, half 



PRESBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 171 

their weight in flour, one lemon, grated rind and juice. — Mrs. 
B. Salisbury. 

ALMOND CREAM CAKE. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, granulated, measured after 
sifting, whites of eight eggs, three-fourths cup milk, three cups 
flour, pastry preferred, two teaspoons baking powder, one-fourth 
teaspoon almond flavoring put in the milk. Cream butter and 
sugar thoroughly, add milk a littl-e at a time, then the flour, one- 
half, beat well, then the remainder beating well again; lastly, 
the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, stir in lightly; mix 
thoroughly the baking powder and flour by sifting at least twice. 
This makes a good sized loaf or two layers in oblong pans. 

Whipped Cream Filling — One pint cream whipped to a stiff 
froth, two pounds almonds, blanched, chop or slice thin; sweeten 
and flavor the cream, stir half the almonds into the cream, spread 
on the layers, scatter on more of the almonds, put layers to- 
gether. On top layer use plain icing thickly strewn with al- 
monds sliced. 

Boiled Cream Filling — One pint sweet milk, three-fourths 
cup sugar, two tablespoons, heaping of flour; rub flour and sugar 
together, stir into the milk, cook until it thickens. Remove from 
the stove and stir into it the whites of two eggs beaten stiff; 
when cool add the almonds, two pounds, that have been blanch- 
ed and shaved thin; one-half stir into the cream. The remain- 
der sprinkle over the layers and top layer of plain icing. — Mrs. 
Davenport. 

CHOCOLATE SPONGE CAKE. , 

Melt four ounces of unsweetened chocolate over hot water, \ 
add one cup powdered sugar, one of milk, stir until smooth. Beat 
the yolks of four eggs, one cup powdered sugar till very light, 
use wire egg beater, add hot chocolate mixture and continue 
beating. Flavor with vanilla, fold in the stiffly beaten whites of 
eggs and last a heaping cup of flour, mixed with one level table- 
spoon baking powder. This is very fine made in two layers. — 
Mrs. Nellie Pemshon Morgan. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Two-thirds cup butter, one cup brown sugar, four whole eggs 



172 PUESBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 

well beaten, one cup cold coffee, one cup sorghum, one teaspoon 
soda, two teaspoons cinnamon, two teaspoons allspice, one grat- 
ed nutmeg, one teaspoon vanilla, one pound box seeded raisins, 
one pound box seeded currants, three and one-half cups flour. 
For Frosting — Use plain boiled icing to which one-half cup 
of chopped raisins and one-half cup chopped nuts has been add- 
ed. Bake in a slow ov-en in bread pan. — Airs. J. C. Dumm. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup sweet milk, two and 
one-half cups flour, two level teaspoons baking powder. Whites 
of seven eggs, one pound seed-ed raisins, one pound figs, one 
pound blanched almonds chopped fine, one-fourth pound citron, 
one cup grated cocoanut, one large teaspoon each of grated lem- 
on and vanilla. Bake slowly. — Mrs. W. F. Cole. 

WEDDING FRUIT CAKE. 

Five eggs, two and one-half level teacups brown sugar, one 
cup molasses, one and one-half cups soft butter, one lemon, one- 
half pound figs, one-half pound citron, on-e pound currants, two 
pounds raisins, one teaspoon ground cinnamon, one teaspoon 
ground cloves, one-half nutmeg, one-half teaspoon soda, one 
quart flour. Bake carefully in a slow oven for two hours. — Mrs. 
A. Buchanan. 

BRIDE'S FRUIT CAKE. 

Butter one-half pound, sugar one and three-quarters pounds 
(half of which is to be Orleans). Eggs well beaten two pounds, 
raisins four pounds, English currants five pounds, citron two 
pounds, two nutmegs, mace as much in bulk, fifteen drops oil of 
lemon. This is a splendid cake. Better to stand for a month. — 
Mrs. N. B. McClure. 

FRUIT CAKE, 

One pound butter, three cups sugar, seven eggs, one-half 
cup molasses, one cup sour milk with two teaspoons soda, seven 
cups flour, two nutmegs, two teaspoons allspice, one teaspoon 
cloves, three teaspoons cinnamon, one teaspoon salt, three pounds 
raisins, two pounds currants, one pound citron, lemon and orange 
peel, two tablespoons grape juice, two tablespoons mixed flavor- 



PKESBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 173 

ing, one-half pound almonds. Cream butter, sugar, salt, spices 
and egg yolks first. Add milk and flour alternately. Dust the 
raisins and currants with flour before putting them in to keep 
them from sinking. Cut the candied peel and citron in long 
narrow shreds and lay them into your cake in layers, length- 
wise of the tins as you are making loaves. Blanch the almonds 
and lay them in also saving some to put on top with candied 
cherries after cake has set a little in the oven. This recipe 
makes about twelve pounds. Bake in a slow oven about four 
hours. — Airs. T. E. Rankin. 

FUDGE CAKE, 

One cup sugar, two-thirds cup butter, three eggs, one cup 
milk, two and one-half cups fiour, one heaping teaspoon bak- 
ing powder, one-fourth cup chocolate, one-half cup English wal- 
nuts broken coarsely. Dissolve chocolate by setting the cup 
in hot water, add nuts and lastly beaten whites of eggs. 

Fudge Filling — One and one-half tablespoons butter, one-half 
cup unsweetened powdered cocoa, one and one-fourth cups sugar, 
one-fourth cup milk, one-half teaspoon vanilla, pinch of salt. 
Melt butter, add cocoa, sugar, salt and milk. Boil eight min- 
utes, remove from the fire, and beat until creamy. Add vanilla 
last. Bake in loaf or layers.— Mrs. F. M. Keeler, Mrs. M. J. 
Worcester. 

GENOA CAKE. 

One-half pound butter, one-half pound sugar, one-half pound 
sultana raisins, two ounces orange peel and citron, ten ounces 
flour, four eggs, two ounces almonds, grated rind of one lemon, 
two teaspoons baking powder. Cream the butter, add the sugar 
gradually, then the beaten yolks; mix and sift the flour and bak- 
mg powder and add to the mixture, then the lemon, nuts and rais- 
ins and lastly the beaten whites. Line the pan with paper and 
pour the mixture in. Sprinkle the top with one ounce of chopped 
nuts. Bake in a very moderate oven one and one-half hours. — 
Elizabeth Frances Greene, Drexel Institute, Philadelphia. 

FIG CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, two-thirds cup butter, one cup sweet milk, 
three cups flour, three teaspoons baking powder, a little more 



/ 



174 PRESBYTEKIAN COOK 'BOOK 

than level, whites of seven eggs beaten very stiflf. 

Filling — Two cups granulated sugar, one cup boiling water. 
When syrup boils hard, add one-fourth teaspoon cream. Boil till 
syrup forms soft balls when dropped in cold water, (not hard 
enough to mold in fingers). Let kettle stand in cold water un- 
disturbed until it appears to be forming a light crust when 
touched lightly with the finger. Beat till creamy and white. 
Chop or put figs through meat grinder and mix with cream. Any 
amount of figs may be used to suit taste. — Mrs. A. S. Newman. 

MOTHER'S GINGERBREAD. 

One-half cup sugar, one cup molasses, one-half cup butter^ 
two and one-half scant cups flour, two well beaten eggs, two tea- 
spoons (level) soda dissolved in one cup boiling water, one tea- 
spoon ginger and cinnamon, one-half cup chopped raisins. Mix 
together well and bake in patty pans or in a loaf. — Mrs. Tacy 
Stokes Paxton. 

GINGERBREAD. 

One pint molasses, one glass sour milk or cream, one table- 
spoon soda, one-half pint melted lard. Put soda into milk and 
molasses and beat to a foam. Make a dough very soft and bake. 
Serve with whipped cream. — Alma McGahey. 

GINGERBREAD. 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, one cup New Orleans mo- 
lasses, one cup cold tea, two eggs, one teaspoon soda, dissolv- 
ed in the molasses, one teaspoon baking powder, mixed in the 
flour, two teaspoons ginger and a pinch of salt. Make the con- 
sistency of good cake batter; bake in bread pans and when done 
spread over the top one teaspoon butter mixed in one table- 
spoon sugar. — Mrs. E. C. Rich. 

GINGER CAKE. 

Three-fourths cup lard or butter, one cup sugar, one cup of 
New Orleans molasses, two eggs, one cup sour milk, two tea- 
spoons soda dissolved in a little warm water, one-half teaspoon 
salt, one-half teaspoon ginger, one-half teaspoon cinnamon, one- 
half teaspoon cloves, one-half teaspoon nutmeg. Juice and grat- 
ed rind of a lemon, three and one-half cups flour. — Mrs. Irons, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 



r K E S B Y T E H I A N COOK BOOK 175 

OTHELLO CAKE. 

Two eggs, two cups powdered sugar, one cup butter beaten 
until very light, one level teaspoon soda, dissolved in one-half 
cup sour milk, three tablespoons Richelieu cocoa (other brands 
not satisfactory), dissolved in one-half cup boiling water, let 
cool, two cups flour and vanilla to flavor. Bake in moderate 
oven. — Miss Gregg, Eureka, Kansas. 

SPANISH BUNS. 

Two eggs, one cup brown sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half 
cup sweet milk, one heaping cup flour, one heaping teaspoon bak- 
ing powder, cinnamon to taste. 

Frosting — Whites of three eggs and enough brown sugar to 
make thick. Cinnamon to taste. — Jennie Kingan. 

DROP CAKE. 

To serve hot for tea: One cup butter, one-half cup sugar, 
two eggs, one teaspoon baking powder, one-half cup milk, two 
cups flour, one cup raisins or currants, one teaspoon each extract 
lemon and nutmeg. Mix into a rather firm batter and drop with 
a spoon on greased baking tins. — Mrs. Blanche B. Stevenson. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, two and 
one-half cups flour, one cup milk, three eggs, three teaspoons 
baking powder, one cup hickory nuts, flavor to taste. — Mrs. C. 
A. Whitbeck. 

NUT CAKE. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, four cups flour, one cup 
sweet milk, whites of eight eggs, three teaspoons baking powder 
and two cups hickory nut meats chopped. — Mrs. C. K. Judd. 

SPICE CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, two cups sugar, two eggs, one cup sour 
milk, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cinnamon,- one teaspoon 
cloves, one teaspoon spice, one-half nutmeg, one box raisins, 
three cups flour.— Mrs. W. B. McConnell, Mrs. J. D. Allen. 

SPICE CAKE. 

One and one-half cups brown sugar, one-half cup butter, two 



176 PRESBYTERIANCOOKBOOK 

eggs, one-half cup sweet milk, two scant cups flour, two teaspoons 
baking powder, one tablespoon melted chocolate, cloves, cinna- 
mon and allspice. — Mrs. J. C. Jones. 

SPICE CAKE. 

X' One cup sugar, two tablespoons butter, one egg, one cup sour 
milk with teaspoon soda, one cup raisins chopped fine, one t€a- '^^ 
spoon cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves. Flour enough to make the/ 
right consistency. — Mrs. A. F. Myser. 



/ 



^ 



SPICED LAYER CAKE. 



^|4/i Three-fourths cup butter, one cup water, one pound sugar, one 

1 and one-half teaspoons cinnamon, one and one-half teaspoons 

r' cloves, one-half nutmeg, three teaspoons baking powder, five 
eggs. Cream the butter and add sugar by degrees, then the yoIks 
and beat well, now add the water and flour alternately a little 
at a time, then spices and baking powder and last the well beaten 
whites of the eggs. Bake in three deep jelly tins and spread be- 
tween the layers and on top a soft icing. — Mrs. Charles Law- 
rence. 

POTATO CAKE. 

Cream one scant cup butter and two cups sugar, add four 
well beaten eggs, one cup mashed potatoes, one-half cup sweet 
milk, one-half cup grated chocolate, melted, two cups flour, two 
teaspoons baking powder, one-half teaspoon each cinnamon, all- 
spice, cloves and nutmeg, vanilla and lemon and one cup chopped 
nuts. — Mrs. M. E. Koontz, Mabel Tweedy, Mrs. Nellie Morgan, 
Mrs. Frank Whitmer. 

ANGEL FOOD. 

Eight eggs, whites, pinch salt; beat eggs half enough and add 
one-half teaspoon cream tartar and finish beating. Add one and 
one-fourth cups sugar, beat slightly and add one cup sifted flour. 
Bake thirty-five or forty minutes. Flavor with vanilla. — Mrs. 
W. M. Hedge, Kansas City. 

ANGEL FOOD CAKE. 

Whites of eleven eggs, one tumbler of flour, one and one-half 
tumbler sugar, a pinch of salt, a level teaspoon cream tartar, flav- 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 177 

or with vanilla. Put flour, sugar, cream tartar into sieve and sift 
six times, then stir in lightly the well beaten whites of eggs. Bake 
nearly an hour in a slow oven. — Mrs. S. R. Taylor. 

WHITE CAKE. 

The whites of three eggs, one-half cup butter, one cup su- 
gar, two cups flour, one-half cup milk, two teaspoons baking 
powder. Can be baked in layers with icing or in loaf. — Mrs. J. 
D. Allen. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one scant cup butter, one cup milk, three 
cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, whites of five large 
or six small eggs, beaten very stifif. — Mrs. Evelyn Little. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Three-fourths cup butter, two cups white sugar, beaten to a 
cream, one cup milk, whites of seven eggs, beaten stifif, three 
cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder sifted with flour; after 
having beaten sugar, butter and milk together, add part of eggs 
and flour, beat thoroughly, then add the remainder. Use boiled 
icing and sprinkle with cocoanut. — ]\Irs. A. T. Porter. 

DEVIL'S FOOD. 

Custard Part — One cup dark brown sugar, one-half cup sweet 
milk, one cup grated chocolate, yolk of one egg. 

Cake Part — One cup brown sugar, two-thirds cup butter, two 
eggs, one-half cup sweet milk, two cups flour, one teaspoon soda. 
Cook custard and when cool stir in the cake part. — Mrs. C. W. 
Squires. 

DEVIL'S FOOD. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs, 
one-half cup milk, one-half cup grated chocolate, dissolved in 
hot water, two and one-half cups flour, one teaspoon soda. — 
Mrs. Pete Newton. 

DEVIL'S FOOD. 

Filling — One pound of raisins, juice of two lemons, one grat- 



178 PRESBYTKKIAN COOK BOOK 

ed orange and peel, two tablespoons pulverized sugar, one and 
one-half cups granulated sugar, five tablespoons boiling water, 
whites of two eggs; boil until it threads. 

Cake — One-half cup butter, two cups brown sugar, three- 
fourths cup milk, one cup grated chocolate, stirred in boiling 
milk, two and two-thirds cups flour, one and one-half teaspoons 
baking powder, two well beaten eggs. Bake twenty minutes. — 
Ina Graves. 

DEVIL'S FOOD. 

One cup white sugar, two tablespoons butter, heaping, two- 
thirds cup sweet milk, two eggs, two cups sifted flour, one tea- 
spoon baking powder, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon vanilla, 
one-third cake chocolate. Cream butter and sugar, then add eggs 
well beaten, then milk, stir well. Sift each cup of flour, one with 
soda, one with baking powder, separate three times; put choco- 
late in cup, cover with sweet milk, place in oven or over teakettle 
until heated or melted, then stir till creainy, add to dough last. 
— Mrs. Hutchinson, Garnett, Kansas. 

DEVIL'S FOOD. 

One cup brown sugar, two-thirds cup sweet milk, one-third 
cup butter, one-third cup grated chocolate, melt in hot water; 
two cups flour, two eggs, one teaspoon soda level, dissolved in 
a little hot water, one teaspoon baking powder, one teaspoon 
vanilla. Bake in layers or loaf. — Mrs. W. E. Read. 

JAM CAKE. 

One coffee cup sugar, three-fourths cup butter, three eggs 
beaten separately, one and one-half cups flour, four tablespoons 
sour cream or buttermilk, one even teaspoon soda, one cup black- 
berry, or other jam, one-half teaspoon grated nutmeg, one-half 
teaspoon allspice, one teaspoon cinnamon. If cream is used, take 
a little less butter; put soda in last. Bake in layers and put to- 
gether with jelly or frosting. Chopped raisins in frosting or a 
marshmallow filling is good. — Mrs. Eugene L. McCain. 

JAM CAKE. 

A good way to make jam cake without trouble. Use any good 
white cake recipe; after batter is ready to put in pan, take out 



P R E S B Y T E H 1 A N C O O K B O O K 179 

about three stirring spoons of th-e mixture, put in two table- 
spoons of some kind of jam (seedless), a little spice is good too, 
a little pinch of soda and a little more flour. Then marble it 
through the white, not in lumps but lightly, stringing it all 
through as you put it in the pan. Bake in pan deep enough to 
cut in squares. This is better than the regular jam cake recipe 
— Mrs. Hutchinson, Garnett, Kansas, contributed by Mrs. Dav- 
enport. 

MRS. RORER'S RIBBON CAKE. 

Beat to a cream half a cup (a quarter of a pound) of butter; 
add gradually two cups of granulated sugar, the yolks of four 
eggs; beat thoroughly; add teaspoon vanilla and cup of milk. 
Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth. Add two tea- 
spoons baking powder to three cups pastry flour and sift; add al- 
ternately milk and flour, and stir in the well beaten whites at 
the last moment, being careful to mix thoroughly. Take out 
one-third of the mixture, and add to it a tablespoon cinnamon, 
ounce of chocolate, melted, cupful of washed and floured cur- 
rants and a quarter of a cupful (about two ounces) of finely 
shredded citron. Grease three sheet pans of the same size; put 
the fruit mixture into one, the other mixture into two pans. Bake 
in a moderately quick oven for half an hour. When done, turn 
the cakes out on oiled paper, spread one light cake with a layer 
of soft icing, which you have made while the cakes are baking; 
place the darker cake on top, spread it with icing, and on top of 
this place the remaining light cake. Cover with a piece of oiled 
paper, on top of which place one of the pans in which they were 
baked. At each end place a pound weight; stand aside until cold, 
then remove the weights. Ice the top with sugar icing, and when 
set cut the whole into diamonds, rounds or squares. — Mrs. J. 
M. Tanner. 

RIBBON CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, three eggs, two-thirds cup butter, one cup 
sweet milk, three cups flour, one teaspoon soda dissolved in 
milk, add a little salt, and flavor with lemon or almond. Put 
half the batter into two square pans. To the remainder add three 
tablespoons molasses, one large cup chopped raisins, one-fourth 
pound citron, one teaspoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon cloves 
and one tablespoon flour. Bake in two pans and put together 



180 PKKSBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

with jelly or raspberry jam. Without the fruit and baked in al- 
ternate layers in one pan it makes a handsome marble cake. — 
Mrs. Gilham. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 

One cup butter, scant, two cups sugar, one cup milk, scant, 
three cups flour, nine eggs, whites only, two teaspoons baking 
powder, heaping, vanilla flavoring. 

Icing — Two eggs, whites only, two cups sugar, granulated, 
one-fourth pint boiling water. Let sugar and water boil until it 
begins to thread from spoon; then pour it over the eggs, which 
have been previously beaten, and b-eat constantly till cool; spread 
over the top of cake. — Airs. D. S. Avery. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 

Cream one-half cup butter and one cup sugar, add one-half 
cup sweet milk, whites of thr^e eggs well beaten, two cups flour, 
one and one-half teaspoons baking powder and one teaspoon van- 
illa; bake in three layers. 

Frosting — Yolks of three eggs, one cup sugar, one-half tea- 
spoon vanilla, beaten fifteen minutes when it will be like cream. 
Put this on each layer and on top of cake, then set in oven for a 
few minutes until the frosting is a little set. When the cake is 
cold the frosting will be firm. — Mrs. S. T. Andrews. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter cr-eamed; one-half cup 
milk; one and three-fourths cups flour, three teaspoons baking 
powder. Beat the yolks of eight eggs thoroughly, add to the 
creamed sugar and butter. Flavor with orange. — Mrs. W. M. 
Hedge, Kansas City, Kansas. 

TILDEN CAKE. 

To be baked in layers or in loaf or in gem pans: One cup 
butter, two cups sugar, one cup sweet milk, three cups flour, half 
cup corn starch, four eggs, beat-en separately, two teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, flavoring. This never fails. — Mrs. McCoy, Clara 
Jackson. 

CARAMEL CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, one and one-fourth cup sugar, one cup 



PKESB YTERI AN COOK BOOK 181 

milk or water, two cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one 
teaspoon vanilla, whites of four eggs beaten stiff and stir in last. 
Filling — One pint brown sugar, butter the size of small egg, 
small pinch soda, one-half cup sweet milk. Boil until it snaps 
and then beat until cool enough to put on cake. — Edith Jones. 

LEMON CAKE. 

One cup butter, three cups sugar, five eggs, one cup milk, 
four and a half cups flour, the juice and rind of one lemon. 
Beat the whites and yolks separately, grate the rind of lemon, 
rub the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs, rind and 
juice of lemon, flour. Bake in a loaf. — Mrs. Nellie Pemshon 
Morgan. 

FEATHER CAKE, 

One cup sugar, one-half cup milk, one and one-half cups of 
flour, one tablespoon butter, one egg, two tablespoons baking 
powder. — Mrs. Sue Huestis. 

MARBLED CAKE. 

Light Part — Two-thirds cup sugar, one-third cup butter, one- 
third cup sweet milk, one-third teaspoon soda, one-half teaspoon 
cream tartar, two whites of eggs, one and one-third cups flour. 
Stir butter and sugar to a cream, add milk, soda and flour with 
cream tartar, and lastly stir in the eggs, well beaten; flavor 
with one-third teaspoon lemon or vanilla. 

Dark Part — One-third cup brown sugar, one-third cup mo- 
lasses, one-third cup butter, stir well and add one-third cup sour 
milk, one-third teaspoon soda, one and one-third cups flour, and 
yolks of two eggs well beaten, or, quite as well put in at first; 
season with cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg, one teaspoon each. 
Drop by spoonfuls alternately and bake as a loaf, one-half to 
three-quarters of an hour; or bake in layers, putting the brown 
parts between the white layers with jelly or other good filling. 
—Mrs. H. M. Woods. 

GOOD CHEAP CAKE. 

Two scant cups sugar, four eggs, three-fourths cup warm 
water, two cups flour, one teaspoon baking powder. — Mrs. E. 
A. Richter. 



V 



182 PKESBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 

MAHOGANY CAKE. 

One-fourth cake Baker's chococlate cooked in one-half cup 
sweet milk; let stand till cold. One and one-half cups brown su- 
gar, one-half cup butter, three eggs beat separately, one-half cup 
sour milk, one teaspoon soda, two cups flour, one teaspoon van- 
illa. Add above mixture. Bake in layers or loaf. — Ina Wecs- 
ner. 

GRAHAM CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one cup buttermilk, one egg, two tablespoons 
butter, one cup raisins chopped fine, one teaspoon cinnamon, one 
teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon soda, dissolved in buttermilk; 
do not mix very stiff. Nice baked in loaf or in layers. 

Cream Filling — Boil together one cup sugar, one-half cup 
sweet milk and butter size of a walnut; boil until waxing, take 
from fire and beat until white. Flavor to taste. — Mrs. F. S. 
Reider. 

LILY CAKE. 

One-third cup butter, one cup sugar, one-half cup milk, one 
and three-fourths cups flour, two and one-half teaspoons baking 
powder, whites of three eggs, one-third teaspoon lemon, two- 
thirds teaspoon vanilla. — Mrs. R. H. Vickers. 

BRIDE'S CAKE. 

Two cups butter, six cups sugar, two cups milk, ten cups 
flour, sixteen eggs, whites, four level teaspoons baking powder. 
Bake very slowly. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One cup brown sugar, one tablespoon butter, two eggs, one 
cup coffee, one teaspoon allspice, one teaspoon cinnamon, one 
teaspoon nutmeg, two cups flour, three teaspoons Royal baking 
powder, one teaspoon salt, two-thirds cup raisins. — Mrs. O. H. 
Kendig. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One-half cup sugar, one-half cup boiling water or strong cof- 
fee, one egg, one-half cup butter, one teaspoon soda, one tea- 



PKESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 183 

spoon ginger, one-half cup molasses, one and one-half cups of 
flour. — Mrs. Wilber. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Whites of s-even small fresh eggs, yolks of five, one cup of 
granulated sugar, two-thirds cup flour, one-third teaspoon cream 
tartar, pinch of salt; sift, measure and set aside flour and sugar as 
for angel cake. Beat yolks of eggs thoroughly, then beat whites 
about half and add cream tartar and beat until stif¥; stir in light- 
ly the yolks beaten, then add flour and sugar; put in pan in 
moderate oven; will bake in from thirty-five to fifty minutes. — 
Mrs. Theis. 

DOVER CAKE. 

One pound sugar, one-half pound butter, one pound of flour, 
one cup sweet milk, six eggs, two large teaspoons baking powder. 
Beat butter and sugar well together, then add eggs which have 
been well beaten together, then milk and flour with baking pow- 
der. Bake in loaf in slow oven. — Mrs. H. Parkman. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cup grated chocolate, one-half cup sweet milk, two-thirds 
cup brown sugar, yolk of one egg. Boil all together and cook 
until like custard, then cool. One cup brown sugar, one-half cup 
butter, one-half cup sweet milk, two cups sifted flour, two eggs. 
After the dough is mixed, stir in the custard part, then add one 

teaspoon soda dissolved in a little boiling water. Flavor with 

vanilla. — Mrs. J. P. Ross. 

MINISTER'S CAKE. 
Cream together two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, then two 
well beaten eggs, one teaspoon soda dissolved in one-half cup 
sour milk, one square chocolate dissolved in one-half cup boiling 
water, two and one-half cups flour and one teaspoon vanilla. 
Bake in layers and put together with chocolate or plain white 
icing. — Mrs. J. D. Burke. 



r. 



DARK CAKE. 

One cup butter, two cups brown sugar, one cup buttermilk, 
three eggs well beaten, two level teaspoons soda, one teaspoon 



r 



184 PRKSBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

each cinnamon, allspice and cloves, one-fourth nutmeg, one and 
one-fourth cups raisins, chopped and floured. Flour enough to 
make a rather stiff batter. This is very good and improves with 
age. — Mrs. Anna Hackney. 

MARBLED CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One-half cup butter and one cup sugar beaten to a cream, 
one-half cup sweet milk, one and one-half cups flour, one tea- 
spoon baking powder, whites of four eggs added last. Take one 
cup of the mixture, add to it five tablespoons grated chocolate 
wet with milk; flavor with vanilla. Put a layer of white batter in 
cake pan, drop the chocolate batter with spoon in spots, pour 
over the remaining white batter and bake. Ice with chocolate 
icing. — Mrs. George Clymer. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Two cups sifted flour, one-half cup butter, add the yolks of 
three eggs, one cup sweet milk (use milk out of cocoanut, and 
if not enough to fill cup, fill up with milk), three cups sifted 
flour and three teaspoons baking powder, add beaten whites of 
three eggs. If 3^ou want to make small nut cakes stir into the 
beaten whites one cup of blanched and chopped nuts before stir- 
ring into batter and bake in small tins. 

Icing for Cocoanut Cake — One cup sugar, si.x tablespoons hot 
water, boil until it threads, pour into beaten whites of two eggs 
vmtil cold, then stir in cocoanut and spread between layers and 
on top. — Miss Ella DeCamp. 



PKESBYTERIAN COOKBOOK 185 

E. M. HAMER W. C HARRIS 

Hamer <Sc Harris 

ATTORNEYS AT LAW 

Rooms 2, 3 and 4 
EMPORIA. KANSAS Emporia National Banli Buildln? 

Here is the place where you get books for 
your library at low prices. Always the lat- 
est things in 

Wall Paper and Stationery 

Plumb's Bookstore ""°E4l?r&r- 

Dr. GlaLddis Armor 

OSTEOPATH 

502 Constitution Street Eaiporia, Kansas 

OWEN S. S AMUR L 
Lawyer 

PlioneSVO Shepherd Building-. Room 9 Emporia, Kansas 

J. M. McCo^vn 

General Real Estate. 
Choice Bargains in Farms and Rancties. 
I make a specialty of Emporia City Prop- 
erty and have the best bargains to be had. 

I also do a general Loan and Insurance 
business. 

508 Com'l. St. Phone 593 Emporia, Kan. 



186 



PRKSBYTERIAN COO'K BOOK 




Quick Meal 
STOVES 

have been manufactured 
for twenty-live years, and 
there are probably a mil- 
lion of them in use. Yji 
can buy a range for le ;s 
money, but the QUIC^ 
MEAL is cheap, consider- 
ing the reasonable price 
with quality furnished, to 
which all of your neigh- 
bors will certify, that have 
one in use. They are sold 
everywhere by reliable 
dealers, and in Emporia by KIISIKEAD,Successor to Loy &McDill 

RINGEN STOVE CO., Div., St. Louis, Mo: 

31 A N U F A C T U REUS 

Many a Avoman has bought Lansdowne only 
to discover that it was not 

LANSDOW NE 

just because she did not keep in mind the fact 

that the genuine is perforated every 

three yards on the selvedge 



• • •• 



• •• • 


• • • < 


>••■ ■ • 






• • • 


••• 


• • * 


• •.;.: 




• • 




• • 


• • i 


»•••• •• 



For Sale by 



The G* W* Newman Dry Goods Co* 



Icings and Fillings 



MAPLE CARAMEL FILLING. 

Cook until it threads one pound of maple sugar and one cup 
hot water. Pour in a fine stream on the stiffly beaten white of 
one egg, beating all the time. — Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING. 

One-fourth cup chocolate, one-fourth cup cream, tablespoon 
butter; put chocolate, cream and butter together, place on back 
of stove until chocolate is melted. Remove and stir in pulverized 
sugar until it is the consistency of whipped cream. — Mrs. Charles 
Lyon. 

ICING THAT DRIES QUICKLY. 

Place the unbeaten whites of two eggs in a bowl, stir in one 
tablespoon corn starch, then thicken with pulverized sugar, be- 
ing careful not to use too much sugar. When just right it will 
be creamy and not run. Flavor with almond or any preferred 
flavoring. — Mrs. Nellie Pemshon Morgan. 

CARAMEL FILLING. 

Two cups dark brown sugar, two-thirds cup water, one small 
tablespoon butter. Cook until it will form a soft ball in cold 
water. Let cool a little and pour on the well beaten yolk of one 
egg. Beat until creamy. Chopped nuts may be added. — Mrs. R. 
H. Jaquith. 

CARAMEL FILLING. 

Two cups brown sugar, two-thirds cup sweet milk, butter size 
of walnut, boil until it thickens, stir constantly. Flavor with 
vanilla as soon as it is cold. — Mrs. Brice Thompson. 

WHIPPED CREAM FILLING. 

Whip one cup of sweet cream stiff, stir in gradually one-half 



188 PRESBYTE RI A N coo K BOOK 

cup pulverized sugar, little vanilla, one pound almonds, blanched 
and chopped fine. Spread thickly between layers. — Mrs. W. B. 
Irwin. 

CARAMEL FILLING. 

Put a piece of butter the size of an egg in a saucepan to melt. 
If you want chocolate put two tablespoons grated chocolate in 
pan with butter. Then turn over it one and one-half cups brown 
sugar, and little over one-fourth cup milk, part cream. If choc- 
olate is used, put only one-fourth cup milk. Boil hard seven 
minutes, not stirring; remove from stove, stir constantly while 
cooling. It takes on-e and one-half measures of this recip-e to ice 
a cake thick. — Mrs. Hutchinson, Garnett, Kansas, contributed 
by Mrs. Davenport. 

WHITE FILLING. 

Take cream or milk and stir into it powdered sugar until as 
thick as needed. Season with any flavoring desired. — Mrs. Nel- 
lie Morgan. 

COFFEE FROSTING. 

One and one-half cups powdered sugar, one teaspoon butter, 
two tablespoons hot, strong cofifee. Beat all together well. — 
Mrs. Nellie Morgan. ■ 

FIG FILLING. 

One pound figs, chop fine and put into stewpan on stove, 
pour over them a teacupful of water and add one-half cup sugar. 
Cook all together until soft and smooth. When cool, spread be- 
tween the layers. — Mrs. Kate Paul, Kansas City. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup grated chocolate, one egg, one- 
half teaspoon vanilla. Mix well together without whipping the 
egg separately. — Mrs. C. W. Squires. 

WHITE FROSTING. 

One and one-half cups sugar, four tablespoons water, boil un- 
til it hairs, then pour over the beaten whites of two eggs and 
stir until it is thick enough to spread. — Elizabeth Tr. Haynes. 



r R K S B Y T E K 1 A N C O O K IJ O O K 189 

CREAM FILLING. • 

One cup sugar, one-half cup thick sweet cream. Boil until 
"t drops from the spoon; flavor with vanilla.— Grace Staley. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

Six tablespoons grated chocolate, one and one-half cups of 
powdered sugar, whites of three eggs. Beat the whites a little, 
add the chocolate, then the sugar gradually. — Mrs. George Cul- 
bertson. 

MARSHMALLOW FROSTING, 

Three-fourths cup sugar, water enough to dissolve sugar, 
egg beaten stiff. Boil eighteen marshmallows into sugar and 
beat all together. — j\Irs. Kendig. 

WILLOW ICING. 

A very nice frosting can be made by using the yolks of eggs 
instead of the whites; proceed exactly as for ordinary frosting. 
It will harden just as nicely as that does. This is particularly 
good for orange cake. — Mrs. Nellie P. Morgan. 

ORANGE JELLY FOR CAKE. 

Two oranges, one cup sugar, two eggs, two tablespoons of 
butter, one-half cup water, boil till it has the consistency of 
jelly. — Mrs. D. F. Longenecker. 

FROSTING. 

Two and one-half cups powdered sugar, four tablespoons of 
sweet cream, one cup English walnuts, chopped, a handful of 
cocoanut. — IMrs. Nellie Pemshon Morgan. 

LEMON FILLING. 

To the beaten whites of four eggs add two cups pulverized 
sugar and the juice of one lemon. — i\Irs. T. F. Davenport. 

COCOANUT ICING. 

One pound sugar boiled in a little water until quite thick, then 
pour over the well beaten whites of four eggs; beat rapidly until 
cool, then add one grated cocoanut. — Mrs. J. S. Kenyon. 



190 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

LEMON JELLY FILLING. 

Use the grated rind and juice of two large lemons, one cup 
sugar, one egg, one-half cup water, one teaspoon butter, one 
tablespoon flour, mixed with a little water; boil until it thickens, 
and place between the layers. — Mrs. E. M. Forde. 

ORANGE FILLING. 

The juice of four oranges, grated rind of two, the juice of 
one lemon, one cup sugar, two eggs, two tablespoons melted 
butter. Beat them all well together, put on the stove and cook, 
stirring all the time until thick enough to spread. — Miss M. E. 
DeCamp. 

BOILED CREAM FILLING. 

Two cups sugar, three-fourths cup cream, cook in a double 
boiler until it makes a soft ball in cold water. Put this away 
until perfectly cold, then beat until it is the consistency desired. 
Flavor. Should it be too stiff, a few drops of hot water will re- 
duce it. Should it seem too soft, let it stand a while longer and 
beat again. Water can be substituted for cream and butter add- 
ed.— Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 

PINEAPPLE AND PECAN FILLING. 

Pineapple filling for cakes is at its best when pecan nuts are 
mixed with the pineapple in equal quantities. The pineapple 
should, of course, be grated and the nut meats should be chopped. 
A boiled frosting or a confectioner's sugar frosting should then 
be mixed with the pineapple and nuts. A delicious filling that is 
a little out of the usual run is made by dissolving one tablespoon 
of gelatine in hot pineapple juice and adding one teaspoon lem- 
on juice, sugar to taste and one cupful grated pineapple and chop- 
ped pecans mixed. This may be used simply for the filling, the 
top of the cake necessarily requiring an ordinary frosting. — Mrs. 
Davenport. 



PRESBYTERIAN COOKBOOK 



191 



J 




516 Commercial Street 



Emporia^ Kansas 



E. N. EVANS 



Lawyer 



Emporia, Kansas 



If You Wish Stylish Gowns, Go to 

MISS LIZZIE COLLETT 

Fashionable Dressmaker 
Ladies' Tailoring a Specialty 



821 ExcKange Street 



Emporia^, KacrvsaLS 



Tel. 827 



W/. J. C O A^ B S 



Justioe> of tho F*e^ac< 

a-rvd 
IVotai-y F»L4fc>lic 



504 Commercial Street Office 'Phone 424. Res. 'Phone 228 



192 



PRESBYTER lAJS COOK BOOK 



The A. 0. Rorabaugh Dry Goods Co. 



Dry Goods^ Millinery^ Shoes 

ovitfitters Women, Misses and Children 



First With the New Things— Lowest Prices all the Time 



Suits 

CoaLts 

Ja.ckets 

Skirts 

Ready to Wear 



JoKn Hoffer 



Fra>.nkA- Lepper 



HOFFER & LEPPER 
Tinners 

Manufacturers of Galvanized Iron and Copper Cornices, Metalic Sky- 
lights, Heating, Ventilating, Roofing, Spouting, Plain and Ornamental 
Ceiling^, etc. All kinds of Repa.iring promptly attended to. 
We will be pleased to have you call and get acquainted with us. We 
can save you money. 

PKorve No 321 Shop, 104 Ea^st Fifth Ave. 



D. W. HAINER. 

Druggist 

Drugs, Medicines, Paints, Oils, Toilet and Fancy Articles, Fine Per- 
fumery, Books, Stationery, Cigars, etc., etc 

603 CorrviTverciaLl Street 




Commercial Department of the College of Emporia 

A modern school with thoroujjh, practical courses and clean, moral sur- 
roundings. The best place in the west to get a tirst-class business education. 
For particulars call at otfice or address 

C D. LONG, Prin. 

Emporia, Kansas 



Small Cakes 



MARGUERITES. 

One-half pound blanched almonds, one-half pound powdered 
sugar, whites of two eggs. Add to these, sugar and nuts chopped. 
Spread on crackcs, brown in oven. Enough for three dozen 
Saratoga wafers. — Mrs. P. A. Lutt. 

MARGUERITES. 

One-half cup raisins, one-half cup English walnuts, ground 
or chopped fine and mixed with the following: 

Cr€am Dressing — For the white of each egg use one table- 
spoon of thick sweet cream and add confectionery sugar until 
the consistency of paste. Spread on top of salted wafers, put 
into oven and brown to a delicate brown. — Mrs. D. M. Gafford. 

SNOWBALL CAKES. 

Bake angel food about two inches in thickness. When cold 
cut into cub-es and round off corners with scissors. Roll in soft 
icing and then shredded cocoanut. — Mrs. R. H. Jaquith. 

COCOANUT DROPS. 

Two cups grated cocoanut, or shredded, one cup sugar, two 
tablespoons fiour, whites of three eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Bake on buttered paper in a quick oven. — Mrs. J. O. Graham. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

Sh-ells — Pour one cup of boiling water over one-half cup of 
butter. While boiling, stir in one heaping cup sift-ed flour. Stir 
three eggs in, one at a time, beat until smooth, drop on greased 
pans; bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes. 

Filling — Put two t-eacups sweet milk in a double boiler; while 
heating beat together one egg, one-half cup sugar, one tablespoon 
corn starch, one-half cup cold milk; stir until smooth, add to 



194 PKESBYTEIIIAN COOK BOOK 

milk in double boiler, let come to boil, stirring all the time. Open 
puffs and fill. — Mrs. E. S. Clymer. 

JELLY ROLL. 

One cup broken eggs, cup sugar, cup flour, oije teaspoon bak- 
ing powder, one glass jelly, one teaspoon vanilla. Beat the eggs 
W'ell, add sugar gradually then the flour and baking powder. Bake 
in a long shallow pan in a moderate oven; line pan with greas- 
ed paper. When done, turn upside down on greased paper, 
spread with jelly and roll. — Mrs. B. D. Whitehead. 

TARTS. 

^One pound sugar, one pound flour, three eggs, one-half pound 
k.*^ Rub butter and sugar together, add eggs, flour. .Cut in 
three inch squares, sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar. — Mrs. F. 
Bundrem. 

TEA CAKES. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one and three-fourths 
cups flour, whites four eggs, two whole eggs, one teaspoon bak- 
ing powder, one-half cup milk and water, large. Currants. — Mrs. 
H. S. AVarren. 

FRUIT COOKIES. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one cup butter, four scant cups 
flour, two-thirds cup chopped seeded raisins, two-thirds cup cur- 
rants, two-thirds cup chopped nuts, pecans, one-half teaspoon 
soda dissolved in one-fourth cup hot water, one heaping tea- 
spoon baking powder, one cup sweet milk, three eggs, beaten 
together, three teaspoons cinnamon, one-half teaspoon nutmeg, 
one-half teaspoon cloves. Drop with a spoon on buttered pan 
and bake in a slow oven. Nuts may be omitted if desired. — Mrs. 
A. S. Newman. 

FRUIT COOKIES, NO. 2. 

One cup butter, one and one-half cups brown sugar, one-half 
cup white sugar, one teaspoon cinnamon and same of cloves and 
allspice. Cream the above. One teaspoon soda dissolved in hot 
water, one pound coarsely chopped dates, one pound English 
walnuts, one-half cup raisins, three cups flour, beaten whites of 



PKESBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 195 

three eggs. Bake in a slow oven. — Mrs. Hornaday, Mrs. Ross, 
Mrs. Richards. 

HERMITS. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup 
sour milk, two eggs, one cup currants or raisins, one-half cup 
chopped nuts, one teaspoon cloves, allspice and cinnamon. Flour 
enough to roll. — Mrs. J. M. Rhodes. 

NUT MACAROONS. 

Whites of six eggs beaten stiff, two cups sugar, granulated, or 
two pulverized, one level tablespoon flour with a pinch of bak- 
ing powder and one-fifth of a teaspoon cream tartar, three cups 
of any kind of nuts, chopped fine, hickory nuts preferred, three 
teaspoons vanilla. Butter bake pans and let brown in cool ov- 
en. — Mrs. A. G. Gray. 

ROCKS. 

One pound English walnuts, one-half pound seeded raisins, 
one and one-half cups sugar, one small cup butter, three eggs, 
two and one-half cups flour, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon 
cinnamon, one-half teaspoon salt. Drop from a spoon. — Mrs. P. 
A. Lutt. 

NUT KISSES. 
Three eggs, one cup sugar, one cup chopped nuts or cocoanut, 
pinch cream tartar. Put whites of eggs and sugar together, beat 
thoroughly for thirty minutes, add cream tartar, add nuts, drop 
at intervals in well buttered pan; bake in a verj- slow oven. — 
Mrs. Marshall Warren. 

BLACK WALNUT COOKIES. >^ 

. One cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, three eggs, one A 

teaspoon soda dissolved in two tablespoons boiling water, three ' 
and one-fourth cups sifted flour, one-half teaspoon salt, one tea- 
spoon cinnamon, one cup chopped black walnuts, one-half cup 
currants. Cream butter, add sugar slowly, then well beaten eggs, 
soda, half the flour with salt and spices, nuts, fruit, remaining 
flour. Drop in spoonfuls on buttered tins and bake in moderate 
oven. — Mrs. Ida Moore Irwin. 



196 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

PEANUT COOKIES. 

Two tablespoons butter, one-fourth cup sugar, one egg, one 
teaspoon baking powder, one-eighth teaspoon salt, one-half cup 
flour, two tablespoons milk, one-half cup finely chopped peanuts, 
one-half teaspoon lemon juice. Cream th-e butter, add sugar and 
well beaten egg. Mix and sift dry ingredients; add to the first 
mixture; then add milk, peanuts and lemon juice. Drop from a ■ 
teaspoon on an unbuttered baking sheet, one inch apart and place 
one-half peanut on top each. Bake twelve to fifteen minutes in 
a slow oven. — Elizabeth Frances Greene, Drexel Institute, Phil- 
adelphia. 

"NUT DROPS." 

Two cups light brown sugar, one cup butter, four eggs, three 
cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, two cups hickory nuts. 
—Mrs. J. L. Carter. 

SEED COOKIES. 

One cup sugar, one scant cup butter, two eggs, one-half cup 
sour milk, pinch salt, one-half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon 
caraway seed, one-half cup chopped nuts. — Mrs. James Smith. 

OATMEAL COOKIES. 

Two scant cups brown sugar, one cup butter, two eggs, two 
cups rolled oats, two cups fiour, one cup chopped raisins, one tea- 
spoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon allspice, three-fourths tea- 
spoon soda, five tablespoons sweet milk; beat well and drop in 
greased pans. — j\Irs. C. W. George, Mrs. L. H. Barnes. 

OATMEAL COOKIES. 

Two cups oatmeal, two cups flour, one cup chopped raisins, 
one cup sugar, one cup butter, two eggs, three-fourths tablespoon 
soda, pinch salt. Mix oatmeal, flour, salt and soda, chop in 
butter, then raisins. Beat eggs in sugar, mix with above. Bake 
fifteen minutes. — I. R. Ingram, contributed by I\Irs. E. M. Forde. 

GRAHAM COOKIES. 

xtT Two eggs, one cup sugar, one cup butter, one even teaspoon 

soda, in six tablespoons sweet milk,. Mix with graham flour 
quite stiff. — ]\Irs. J. A. NewHn. 



P K E S B Y T E K I A N COOK IJ O O K 197 

SOFT MOLASSES COOKIES. 

Two cups molasses, one cup brown sugar, one cup butter, 
one cup buttermilk, one teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon soda; stir 
together and mix stiff as possible. Let stand over night. Roll 
out fairly stiff, spread with sugar and cut with cutter and bake 
in quick oven. — Margaret Ingram, contributed by Mrs. E. M. 
Forde. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

Beat one cup butter to a cream, add two cups sugar and beat 
until light. Without separating beat two eggs until v-ery light 
and add to the butter and sugar, with one-half cup sweet milk. 
Add three teaspoons baking powder to one cup of flour, mix with 
the batter; then mix with flour as soft as possible to roll out, the 
softer the better, cut and bake in quick oven. — Margaret In- 
gram. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

- One cup sugar, one cup molasses, one cup butter, one egg, 
one tablespoon ginger, one teaspoon soda dissolved in hot 
water. — Mrs. Bundrem. 

GINGERSNAPS. 

One cup butter, one cup brown sugar, one cup molasses, one 
teaspoon vinegar, one teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon soda, one 
egg, flour to roll. Roll thin and cut in squares. — Mrs. Fred 
Protheroe. 

DROP GINGER CAKES. -^ 

^ One cup molasses, one cup brown sugar, one cup shorten- 
ing, one tablespoon ginger, one teaspoon soda, one cup sour 
cream, three eggs. — Mrs. George Culbertson. 

GINGERSNAPS. 

Two eggs, one cup brown sugar, two cups molasses, one cup 
lard, little salt. Beat well together, set upon stove until it 
boils, then add two tablespoons ginger, the same of soda, 
stirred into four tablespoons boiling water. Mix stiff and roll 
thin.— Mrs. A. T. Porter. 



198 PRESBYTKRIAN COOK BOOK 

GINGERSNAPS. 
Take one cup molasses and put it on the stove with two- 
thirds cup butter and lard, or all butter, and let it boil for a 
minute or two. Add a pinch of salt. Take a h-eaping- teaspoon 
soda, wet it with two tablespoons vinegar; add this and a table- 
spoon ginger to the molasses and butter after taking from the 
stove, and set aside till about two-thirds cool. Be careful not 
to mix in too much flour. Roll" very thin. I sometimes add a 
cupful of nuts, hickory or pecan. — Mrs. Norman Triplett. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

One cup Orleans or sorghum molasses, one cup brown su- 
gar, two eggs; beat all together, add one cup hot lard, one cup 
hot water, two level teaspoons soda dissolved in water, one 
heaping tablespoon ginger, add other spice if desired. Mix rather 
soft. — Mrs. Anna Hackney. 

SOUR MILK COOKIES. 

Four eggs, one cup butter, two cups sugar, one teaspoon 
soda, one-half cup sour milk. Mix as soft as can be handled; roll 
out; sprinkle sugar on top. — Mrs. T. P. Stephenson. 

COOKIES. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, four cups flour, two teaspoons 
baking powder; mix same as pie crust, then add four eggs, one 
teaspoon lemon extract. Bake in a quick oven. "No wet- 
ting required other than eggs." — Mrs. O. H. Winegar. 

COOKIES. 

Two well beaten eggs, one heaping teacup sugar, one gen- 
erous two-thirds cup butter, two-third teaspoon soda dissolved 
in warm water, flavor to taste. Flour enough to roll. — Mrs. W. 
A. Parker. 

VIRGINIA COOKIES. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, two eggs, one-half cup sweet 
milk, one even teaspoon soda, nutmeg to taste. Cream butter and 
sugar, same as for pound cake, add eggs and beat well, add milk 
and nutmeg and lastly soda dissolved in hot water, with flour 
enough to roll. — Mrs. L. A. Lowther. 

/EXCELLENT DOUGHNUTS. 
One cup sugar, two eggs, one cup milk, five dessert spoons 



\ 

\ 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 199 

melted butter, nutmeg, two rounded teaspoons baking poAvder. 
Mix very soft. — Mrs. J. E. Martin. 

FRIED CAKES. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one cup sour milk, two eggs, 
two scant tablespoons melted butter, one-half grated nutmeg, 
one teaspoon cinnamon, on-e-half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon 
soda; make a little stiflfer than for biscuit, cut with a cooky cut- 
ter with hole in the center. — Mrs. Sharpe, New York, contributed 
by Mrs. R. J. Edwards. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

One pint of bread sponge, one cup sugar, butter size of an 
egg, little nutmeg. Make in soft dough, let it get quite light, roll 
out into rings, let these rise a half hour. - Fry quickly, dip in 
powdered sugar while hot. — Mrs. D. D. Williams. 

MOTHER'S CRULLERS. 

Two eggs, two tablespoons sugar, two tablespoons melted 
butter, one-half cup sweet milk, grated nutmeg to taste, one 
heaping teaspoon baking powd r. Flour enough to make a 
soft dough. Fry, and as taken out roll in powdered sugar. — 
Mrs. H. Parkman. 

CRULLERS WITHOUT SHORTENING. 

Three eggs, little salt, b-eat well, one and one-half cups su- 
gar, beat as for sponge cake, then add one cup rich milk, not 
cream, three cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder. Roll out 
in round balls, or rings with holes in center. The softer th«y 
can be rolled and handled the better. Fry in hot lard. Flavor 
with nutmeg if desired. — Mrs. Charles Gardiner. 

ANGEL ROLLS. 

This recipe will make thirty to thirty-five rolls. 

Bake an angel food cake in a pan about twelve by six by 
three inches. Let cool, cut in slices as thin as possible, trim off 
brown edges, spread each slice with icing, sprinkle with chopped 
nuts, roll it up, stick through with a toothpick and stand on 
end. When all are done in this way begin with the first ones 
and ice the outside, rolling in chopped nuts. A drop of icing 
and half a nut makes a nice finish for the top of roll. When 
icing has set take out picks. A half pound of shelled almonds 
will make this recipe. — Mrs. Austin Young. 



200 



PRKS HYT45H1 A N COOK BOOK 





^^Z RICHARDSON'S 

"^sWashFilo Floss 



We Carry a Full Line of Shwles of 



Richardson's 



GRAND PRIZE 



Embroidery Silk 



THE A. O. RORABAUGH DRY QOODS CO. 
Emporia. Kansas 



H 



A. O. U. NA/ 



The oldest and best FRATERNAL BENEFIC- 
IARY ORGANIZATION in this country. It is the 
OLD RELIABLE. Protect your HOME with its 
SHIELD, for vou wi.ll not always be with your fam- 
ily. The FATHER and SON should join. Any offi- 
cer or member will gladly give you information, or 
you may address me at Emporia, Kansas. 

E. nf\. F^ORDE, Grand Recorder 



THE HEREFORD MARKET 

Dealer in 
FRESH, SALT and SMOKED MEATS 

614 Commercial street . Phone 24 



Frozen Dishes 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

Put the ice in a coarse coffee sack, pound until the himps are 
no larger than a small hickory nut. Place the beater in the 
freezer and set properly. Pour the pr-epared cream or custard in 
the freezer and place the cover on. Then begin to pack the ic-e 
and salt, first a layer of ic-e about three inches thick, then a lay- 
er of coarse salt and so on, ice last, until the freezer is full. The 
proportion is about three-fourths ice to one-fourth salt. After 
turning the freezer ten minutes pour off the water and add more 
ice and turn again. — Mrs. Charles Jackson. 

BISQUE GLACE. 

Beat well the yolks of eight eggs and a half pound powdered 
sugar, flavor with vanilla, beat light a quart of rich sweet cream 
and add to sugar and eggs. Pour in a mold, putting a piece 
of paper over mold before putting the cover on to make as tight 
as possible. Pack this in fine ice and salt, cover with a thick 
cloth and let stand for three hours, when it should come out 
perfectly frozen. — Mrs. Dr. Boynting, Iowa, contributed by 
Mrs. W. E. Haynes. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM. 

One-half cup corn starch and one pint of milk mixed smooth- 
ly, two eggs beaten together, one cup sugar in skillet. Melt over 
fire until perfectly smooth, and stir into hot custard. Let the 
mixture cool, then flavor with vanilla, add two quarts of crearti 
and freeze. This makes three quarts when frozen. — Clara Jack- 
son. 

CARAMEL SAUCE. 

Put one cup brown sugar in a spider and stir over the fire 
until it is a very nice dark brown. Add boiling water to make 
it as thin as molasses. Flavor with vanilla and use it hot. — Mrs. 
William B. Irwin. 



202 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

CRANBERRY ICE. 

Two quarts cranberries, four quarts water, three pounds of 
sugar. Cook cranberries till done, strain and if too strong add 
more water, and sugar, if not sweet enough. When cold freeze 
and when hardly frozen add beaten whites of two eggs. Let 
stand a few hours before using. Canned or fresh cherries may- 
be used instead of cranberries. — Mrs. D. D. Williams. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

One cup sugar, three-fourths cup milk or cream, one-half tea- 
spoon vanilla, two squares Baker's chocolate. Butter size of 
large hickory nut. Mix butter and sugar, add milk, let come to 
boil, add chocolate, and cook slowly for a few minutes. — Miss 
Van Deren, Springfield, Illinois. 

CRANBERRY SHERBET. 

Pick over sufficient cranberries to measure one pint, add one 
quart water and bring quickly to a boil. Cook until berries 
break. Then rub through sieve; measure and add water if need- 
ed to make three pints. Return to the fire, with one pound su- 
gar, and stir until sugar is dissolved. Take from the fire, add one 
tablespoon granulated gelatine soaked in one-half cup cold water, 
stir and strain. When cold, freeze to a thick mush and serve in 
tall glasses. Will serve about fifteen people. — Mrs. J. E. Martin. 

FROZEN CUSTARD. 

One quart cream, one quart milk, one cup sugar, two eggs, 
two tablespoons corn starch, one tablespoon gelatine. Mix su- 
gar, corn starch and eggs. Let the milk come to the boil and 
add the mixture. Have gelatine dissolved in cold water and add 
last, then cook custard for five minutes. When cool, add to 
the cream, add flavoring to taste and freeze. When frozen, but 
before packing, add one cup chopped nuts or candied cherries 
and stir well. — Annie Peoples, contributed by Mrs. George Cul- 
bertson. 

FROZEN FIG PUDDING— (Delicious.) 

One pint cream, two pints milk and a little sugar. Place in 
freezer until almost stifif. While this is being done chop a pound 
of figs, pour over them a wineglassful of Maraschino cherry 
juice and let stand until the cream is ready. Then add figs, let 



PRESBYTEIilAN COOK BOOK 203 

the mixture stand in freezer, with plentj' of salt and ice around 
freezer until time to serve. — Miss Tillie MeCamp. 

FROZEN PEACHES. 
One quart of p-eaches which have been chopped and mashed 
very fine. Two cups loaf sugar with enough water to cover. Boil 
a few minutes; when cool add to the peaches and freeze. The 
peaches must be very fine or will be hard when frozen. — Mrs. 
William Burgett Irwin. 

FRUIT FRAPPE. 

Line a mold with vanilla ice cream, fill the center with fresh 
berries or fruit. Cover with ice cream, cover closely and set in 
freezer for half an hour with salt and ice well packed around it. 
The fruit should be chilled but not frozen. — Mrs. C. B. Jackson. 

GINGER ICE CREAM. 

One pint cream, yolks of three eggs, one-third jar, small size, 
preserved ginger. Scald the cream and pour over it gradually 
the yolks. Return to the double boiler and cook until thick. 
Chop the ginger fine. Add it, and one-third of the syrup to the 
custard. Freeze this mixture, using three parts ice to one part 
salt. — Elizabeth Frances Greene, Drexel Institute, Philadelphia. 

GRAPE FRAPPE. 

One quart water, one and one-half cups sugar, three cups 
grape juice, juice of two lemons. Boil the water and sugar to- 
gether for ten minutes. Strain through cheese cloth into the 
can of the freezer. When cold^ add fruit juice. Pack with ice 
and salt, using equal proportions. When the mixture is one-half 
frozen, remove the dasher and pack until ready to serve. Scrape 
the frozen mixture from the sides of the can and beat well be- 
fore serving. — Elizabeth Frances Greene, Drexel Institute, Phil- 
adelphia. 

ICE CREAM. 

Whites of six eggs beaten. Roll smoothly pound of powder- 
ed sugar and beat with the eggs as for frosting. Add three 
quarts of cream or two quarts of cream and one of milk. Flavor 
to taste. Do not cook. — Mrs. Squires. 



204 PRESBYTEKIAN C-O O K BOOK 

ICE CREAM. 

Two quarts cream, one quart milk, one pint powdered sugar, 
one tablespoon essenc-e; whites of two eggs, after cream has 
begun to freeze. — Mrs. E. M. Carney. 

FROZEN PUNCH. 

Four cups water, two cups sugar, one-half cup cold tea, one- 
half cup lemon juice, one-half cup orange juice. Will serve 
twelve. — Mrs. Harry Hood. 

ICE CREAM AND FIGS. 

Put ice cream in sherbet glasses; cut the preserved figs in 
small pieces and pour hot water over them to make more juice. 
Put a few pieces of the figs on the cream and pour a little of the 
juice over them. — ]\Irs. Jonas Eckdall, Jr. 

LEMON ICE. 

Two quarts milk, one pint cream, one teacup lemon juice, 
four teacups sugar, one teaspoon lemon extract. Put milk and 
cream into freezer; when they have begun to freeze add lemon 
juice and sugar and extract, which have been previously mixed. — 
Mrs. Morrow, New York. 

LEMON ICE. 

Make a rich lemonade. Strain into the freezer, then add the 
beaten whites of two eggs to a quart or little more or lemonade. 
Freeze. — Mrs. J. T. Alexander. 

MAPLE ICE CREAM SAUCE. 

Cook a cup of maple syrup and a tablespoon butter until it 
drops thick. Serve hot over each portion of vanilla or macarroon 
ice cream. — Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 

MAPLE MOUSSE. 

One cup maple syrup, yolks of four eggs, beat together, cook 
in a double boiler until it thickens, then put aside to cool. Whip 
one pint of cream and add to it, put in a freezer and turn about 
ten minutes, or let stand in ice for four hours. — Mrs. William 
Burgett Irwin. 



P K E S H Y T E H I A N COOK BOOK 205 

MAPLE PARFAIT. 

Boil down thick three-fourths of a cup of mapk syrup and 
pour this over the well beaten j'olks of three eggs. When cool 
beat it into a pint of whipped cream. Pack in salt and ice for 
two or three hours. A cupful of chopped nuts improves the 
cream.— Mrs. W. H. Richards. 

MAPLE PARFAIT. 

This will serve hxe persons. Beat yolks of six eggs, add 
three-fourths cup maple syrup, put into a double boiler and stir 
about fifteen minutes, or until it makes a coating on the pan. 
Beat for a few minutes after removing from the stove. When 
cool, stir lightly into one pint of cream whipped stiflf. Pour into 
mold or small tin pail and pack in ice and salt, about one-third 
salt to ice, and let stand three or four hours. This is very good 
without eggs, using one coffee cup of syrup to one quart of 
cream, whipped. — Mrs. Rankin, jMichigan. 

ORANGE SOUFFLE. 

Two cups sugar, pour over it one-half cup cold water and 
boil until a thick syrup. Have beaten the yolks of five eggs, pour 
syrup over the eggs; have soaked one-half box gelatine in one 
cup cold water and one pint of orange juice. Mix and begin 
to freeze; when partly frozen, add one quart of whipped cream 
and finish freezing. — Mrs. Allen V. Davenport. 

RASPBERRY SHERBET. 

Four boxes berries, one box gelatine, four lemons, four cups 
granulated sugar. Cook berries and press out the juice, add sugar 
and dissolved gelatine, lemon juice and water to make six quarts. 
Freeze. — Miss Ethel Ward. 

APRICOT SHERBET. 

One can California apricots run through a colander, two- 
thirds the same can of suga''. one quart milk. Add the sugar to 
the fruit, then add the milk snd freeze. — Mrs. James King, To- 
peka. 

ORANGE CHERRY SHERBET. 

Juice of three and grated rind of two oranges. Juice of two 



206 PRESBYTERIAN C'-O O K BOOK 

lemons, thre€ pints sugar, one small bottle Maraschino cherries, 
whites of two eggs. Make the sugar into a syrup with three 
quarts water; when cool rub the rinds into a little of it until 
thoroughly mixed. Then add the rest of the syrup and juice; 
when partly frozen add the partially beaten eggs and the cher- 
ries quartered. This makes a gallon. — Mrs. W. E. Day, Dayton, 
Ohio, contributed by Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 

ORIENTAL SAUCE. 

Two cups maple syrup boiled until it begins to thicken. 
Take from the fire and add one-half cup each of chopped English- 
walnuts, seedless raisins and candied cherries, cut small. S-erve 
hot over vanilla ice cream. — Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 

PEACH SHERBET— (Without Freezing.) 

In a pint of water boil one-half cup tapioca and one cup su- 
gar until clear; use double boiler, stir often, add juice of one- 
lemon and a pint of sliced peaches; six minutes before taking 
from the fire. Put in cool place, when beginning to harden 
stir in quickly the well beaten whites of two eggs. Serve with 
whipped cream. — Mrs. Nellie Pemshon Morgan. 

PEACH ICE CREAM. 

Two quarts rich cream, two quarts morning milk, three cups 
sugar, two tablespoons vanilla, one and one-half dozen ripe 
peaches, peeled and pressed through a colander, then sweetened 
to taste. Whites of two eggs, beaten stiff. This will make two 
gallons. — Mrs. J. R. Peters. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

Two quarts milk, three cups sugar, dissolve the sugar in 
the milk, juice of six lemons, one can grated pineapple. Put lem- 
on and fruit in when nearly frozen. — Lucy Ross. 

PLAIN ICE CREAM. 

Three pints cream, one quart new milk, pint powdered su- 
gar, whites of two eggs beaten, tablespoon vanilla. — Mrs. C. B. 
Jackson. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET. 

One quart red strawberries, one pound sugar, one quart wa— 



PKKSBYTEHIAN COOK BOOK 207 

ter, juice of one lemon. Boil the sugar and water together for 
six minutes, add lemon juice to berries and mash them. When 
syrup is cold pour it over th-e berries and strain. Freeze and 
remove the dasher and then add the following meringue. Beat 
the white of one egg until frothy, then add one and one-half 
tablespoons powdered sugar. Beat until very stifif; repack the 
freezer and let stand an hour or two. — Mrs. Dr. Boynting, Cher- 
iton, Iowa, contributed by Mrs. W. E. Haynes. 

THE THREE ICES. 

Three lemons, three oranges, three bananas, three cups water, 
three eggs, whites only; three cups sugar makes the ice very 
sweet; unless the oranges are quite sour, would use but two and 
one-half cups sugar. Boil water and sugar together a few min- 
utes. When cool add fruit and last add the whites of the eggs 
and freeze. — Retta T. Lowther. 

PEACH MOUSSE. 

Rub through a sieve enough mellow peaches to measure one 
cupful and a half. Soak one-quarter box gelatine in one-quarter 
of a cupful of cold water, stand over hot water until dissolved, 
then add the peaches with one cup sugar and one teaspoonful 
lemon juice. Stir occasionally until quite thick, add one pint 
cream which has been whipped to a ^olid froth and turn lightly 
through until set. Pack in a mold, cover and bind the seam 
with a strip of buttered muslin and pack in ice and salt for three 
hours. — Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 



208 PKESBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 



*■ 



The Only Celery Food 

The only food in whicli celery forms an important 
part— its no-arishing qiinlities of a marked character. 
It acts admirably upon the nervous system— recom- 
mended f orwakefuluess , rheumatism and neuralgia. 



i* 



I D9 PRICES 

I WHEAT FLAKE CELERY 

i FOOD 

?/i Celery one of its principal ingredients, it helps to 

*. regulate the bowels; a restorative in debility of the S 

^ digestive organs and has a direct effect upon the ^ 

S kidneys. It s a food— not a medicine. Served hot ^ 

^ or cold. X 

^ Palatable— Nutritious— Easy of Digestion ^ 

^ and Ready to Eat ^ 

f My signature on (^ 0/(2^ ^, / % 

^ lOA every package. ^'i. cZ CD. </i^<i<!/ % 

% A Cook Book containing 76 excellent receipts for ^ 

^i using the Pood mailed free to any address. i 

* For sale by all leading Grocers. ^ 

% PRICE CEREAL FOOD CO., Chicago I 
Emporia Harness Company 

409 Commercial Street 



Carry a Complete Lirve of Ha.rness, SaLddles, Robes, 
Blankets arvd Whips 



FLEMING & POTTER 

West Fifth Avenue 
Livery, Sa.Ie, Feed aLnd BosLrding Statbles 

Carriages, Baggage Transfer, Funeral Car, White Heaise and Wagonettes 
EverytKing Flrst-cIaLSS 

Open all the time; calls answered day or aight. Telephone 61 



Beverages 



PLAIN FRUIT PUNCH. 

Juice of three lemons, juice of one orange, one pint grape 
juice, one small cup sugar, one pint ice water. — Mrs. J. M. Tan- 
ner. 

STRAWBERRY NECTAR. 

Boil to a syrup two cupfuls water and four cupfuls sugar. 
Boil for ten minutes. Add to the syrup while hot four cupfuLs 
of canned strawberry juice or the same quantity of juice express- 
ed from fresh fruit, juice of ten oranges and two cups grated pine- 
apple. Let stand for half an hour, strain and add four quarts 
of ApoUinaris. Sweeten to taste, but be careful not to get it 
too sweet. — Mrs. Ella F. Longenecker. 

LEMONADE. 

Juice of two lemons to one orange, sweetened to taste. — 
Mrs. Jaquith. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Put your raspberries in a dish and to every two quarts of 
berries put a pint of vinegar. Let it stand covered for twenty- 
four hours, then strain and add one pound of sugar to each pint 
of juice. Boil a few minutes and when cool, bottle. If you would 
like it sharper add more vinegar and it will not hurt it to stand 
longer than the twenty-four hours. — Jennie Kingan. 

KUMISS 

One quart skim milk, two tablespoons sugar, one-fifth yeast 
cake. Heat the milk in a double boiler. Dissolve the yeast in a 
little water and mix it with the sugar and lukewarm milk. Put 
the mixture into strong bottles and cork them tightly and tie 
down the corks with a strong twine. Shake the bottles thor- 
oughly and place in a refrigerator to allow the mixture to fer- 
ment slowly. After three days lay the bottles on their sides; 
turn occasionally. Five days are required to perfect the fer- 



210 pre[sbytekian cook book 

mentation, and then kumiss is at its best. — Elizabeth Frances 
GrC'Cne, Drexel Institute, Philadelphia. 

SWEET GRAPE JUICE. 

Wash, strip and cover grapes with cold water and bring to 
a boil. Do not boil. Turn into a jelly bag and drain over night. 
Do not squeeze. Measure one quart of juice to one-fourth quart 
of sugar, boil, skim to clarify, and seal. — Mrs. A. S. Newman. 

FRUIT PUNCH FRAPPE. 

One dozen kmons, four oranges, two cans pineapples, shred- 
ded, six eggs, yolks beaten very light, also whites beaten stiff 
and put in the last thing so they float on top. One gallon water, 
sugar to taste. Fill glasses with cracked ice and pour punch over 
it; if too rich add more water. Place a good-sized piece of ice 
in the punch bowl. — Mrs. Carney. 

GRAPE JUICE. 

Pick one peck of ripe purple grapes from the stems and bring 
to a hard boil in one quart of water; strain through a cloth but 
do not squeeze. To one gallon of juice add two quarts of water 
and one pound of sugar. Seal as soon as it comes to a boil. — Mrs. 
T. E. Rankin. 

FRUIT PUNCH. 

One dozen lemons, two quarts water, four cups sugar, one 
pint mashed strawberries, one pint crushed red raspberries, one- 
half pint pineapple cut fine, one-half pint Maraschino cherries and 
a leaf of mint cut fine. — Mrs. F. C. Newman. 

PINEAPPLE LEMONADE. 

Boil one cup of sugar and one cup water until it threads, then 
add one cup grated pineapple and juice of two lemons. Add su- 
gar and ice water to suit taste before serving — Mrs. J. M. Tan- 
ner. 

NECTAR. 

Take juice of six lemons and six oranges, sweeten to taste, 
add the juice of a small can of pineapple, broken bits of ice and 
pour over the whole two quarts of water. — Mrs. T. H. Dinsmore. 



P t: iS S B V T E K I A N C (^ O K 15 O O K 211 

EGGNOG. 

Break the yolk of one egg into a glass, add three teaspoons 
powdered sugar and beat with egg till very light, add one-half 
cup good cream; then beat the white of the egg to a stiff froth 
and stir into cream and all. Add flavoring. — Mrs. O. H. Win- 
egar. 

COCOA. 

One can Baker's cocoa, one pint sugar, one pinch salt, three- 
fourths cup milk, one-fourth water, or half water and half milk. 
Reduce cocoa to paste well mulled, add water and cook in a bath, 
stirring constantly to prevent the oil from separating. Add salt 
and sugar melted, turn in the hot milk and serve with whipped 
cream. The sugar added too soon darkens this beverage. This 
makes a gallon. — Miss M'Louise Jones. 

BOILED COFFEE. 

Allow one tablespoon ground coffee to each cup of water and 
one extra "for the pot"; mix with a little egg, moisten with cold 
water. Pour over this freshly boiling water. Set on back of 
stove or low gas flame and let come slowly to the boil. Re- 
move immediately and drain. Mocha and Java make the best 
blend coffee. In making a quantitj', it is better to put the coffee 
in a thin bag. — Mrs. D. F. Longenecker. 

COFFEE. 

One pound coffee mixed with three pints cold water, cleared 
with the whites of two eggs. Put on stove where it will grad- 
ually come to the boil, then add same amount of boiling water 
and boil twenty minutes. Remove from the fire and drain. This 
makes twenty-five strong cups. — Birdie Council. 

TEA. 

For Oolong or English Breakfast tea, use one teaspoon tea 
to a cup of water. Scald teapot, put in tea and pour boiling 
water over it. Let stand in a warm place seven minutes before 
serving. 

CHOCOLATE. 

One and one-half squares Baker's chocolate, four tablespoons 
sugar, one cup boiling water, three cups milk, few grains salt. 



212 PRKSBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 

Scald milk, melt chocolat-e in small saucepan over hot water, add 
sugar, salt, and gradually boiling water; when smooth, place 
on range and boil one minute; add to scalded milk. Beat two 
minutes, using Dover egg beater, when froth will form, prevent- 
ing scum which is so unsightly. Serv-e with whipped cream. — 
Miss Sabra Whitley. 

ICED COCOA. 

Make the cocoa a little stronger than usual and when cool 
put in the ice box until thoroughly chilled. Chopped ice m.ay be 
added. Just before serving, add a little vanilla. Sw-eetened 
whipped cream may be served on top. — "Good Housekeeping." 

ICED COFFEE. 

Chill thoroughly any well made cofifee, serv-e with sugar and 
cream, -either plain or whipped. A dessert spoonful of vanilla ice 
cream is a great addition to this or iced cocoa. — j\Irs. J. M. Tan- 
ner. 

ICED TEA. 

Four teaspoons tea, two cups boiling water. Put tea in a 
china or earthen teapot which has been scalded. Pour on fresh- 
ly boiled water and let stand on back of range for five min- 
utes. Strain into glasses one-third full of cracked ic-e. The 
flavor is finer by chilling this infusion quickly. In making a 
quantity of iced tea, where above instructions are impossible, 
make a strong infusion of tea, strain and cool. Add to iced 
water according to taste, at serving time. — Miss Sabra Whit- 
ley. 

CHRISTMAS PUNCH. 

Grate the yellow rind from four lemons and six oranges, and 
add it to four pounds of sugar and two quarts of water. Stir un- 
til the sugar is dissolved and boil for ten minutes. Strain and 
cool; add the juice of the lemons and oranges and tvi^o tart bak- 
ed apples pressed through a sieve. When wanted for use put a 
small block of ice in the punch bowl, pour over the syrup, add 
one pint of grape juice, a pint of ginger ale, and enough effer- 
vescing water to make it palatable. — Good Housekeeping. 



PKESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 



213 



The Best of Recipes 

will fail unless you have the proper stove to cook them with 

A Superior or Ga rland Stove 

Will Never Fail to Give the Utmost Satisfaction 



BRIDGE,BEACH&CO§ 
'^SUPERIOR'' 




The Detroit Gasoline Stove 

is equally as pleasing. These stoves are sold in Emporia 
only by 

HAYNES BROTHERS 

618-622 Commercial Street 



214 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

F. S. BENNETT 

..LANDS BOUGHT AND SOLD. 

FARM LOANS AT CURRENT RATES 



EXCHANGES OF MERCHANDISE, LIVE STOCK, 

FARMS AND CITY PROPERTY A 

SPECIALTY 



To Renters and Men of Limited Means I am prepared to make 
very easy payments on good farms 



With courteous treatment and prompt attention to business, I 
solicit a share of your patronage 



OFFICE: 423 COMMERCIAL STREET 

OVER MORRIS'S DRUG STORE 



C. H. DABBS F. A. TOTSCHE 



The Lenox Restaurant 

419 Connnercial Street 

Everything New and First-class 

Tables for Ladies and Children 



Lunch and Short Order EMPORIA. KANSAS 



Confections 



"A wilderness of sweets." 

—Milton. 

CHOCOLATE MARSHMALLOW FUDGE. 

Make a chocolate fudge; when just ready to remove from 
stove add marshmallows. When melted, remove from stove and 
beat until it begins to stiffen. Pour into pans and cut in squares. 
— I. R. Ingram, contributed by Mrs. E. M. Forde. 



iaf-\ 
ure \ 



MARSHMALLOW FUDGE. 

Put one cup cream and two cups pulverized sugar in the chaf 
ing dish, stirring gently to avoid scorching, until the mixture 
begins to boil. Now add one-fourth pound chocolate, stirred 
as needed until all is melted. Boil mixture for about ten min- 
utes, testing a little in cold water, then add one and one-half 
cups butter and stir until well mixed. Take from the flame and 
beat briskly for five or ten minutes, then pour it in a buttered 
pan containing one-half pound of cut marshmallows and one- 
quarter pound chopped pecan nuts scattered through. — Blanche 
Miller. 

FUDGE. 

Two cups sugar, one cup water, one tablespoon molasses and 
butter size of a hickory nut; stir until sugar is partly dissolved, 
then boil on a slow fire until it forms a soft ball when dropped 
into cold water, or until it begins to hair when dropped from 
a spoon. Remove from the fire and let stand while you shave 
oflf one-fourth bar of Baker's chocolate and pick out nut meats. 
Set candy pan into cold water, add chocolate and vanilla and 
stir until it is nearly ready to pour before adding nuts. — Mrs. T. 
E. Rankin. 

FUDGE. 

Two cups sugar, one cup milk or cream, one square Baker's 



\ 



216 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

chocolate. If milk is used add one large spoon butter, flavor. 
Boil seventC'Cn minutes, stirring constantly, and before it grains, 
pour into buttered pans. If cream fudge is wanted, leave out 
chocolate. — Ethel Ireland. 

WHITE FUDGE. \ 

/ Make like the above recipe and add cocoanut or nuts but no \ 
chocolate. — Grace Thomson. 

DIVINITY. 

Three cups white sugar, one cup cream, three tablespoons 
white syrup, (Rock Candy Drip). Cook until it will form a soft 
ball when dropped in cold water. Stir while cooking; take off 
fire, flavor and stir until stiff. Put on board and knead; work in 
nuts, figs or dates. Form nut rolls and slice. — Miss Maude 
Young. 

/ DIVINITY. 

Three cups granulated sugar, one cup milk, one cup white 
molasses. Cook until a little dropped into water forms soft 
balls. Then add cupful of nuts and beat until hard. Mold in 
deep pan. — Miss Nell Hamilton. 

HEAVENLY HASH. \ 

Two cups granulated sugar, one cup cream, one cup white \ 
syrup, or one cup maple syrup. Boil until a little dropped into ' 
cold water forms a soft ball. Beat until cool, pour into buttered 
pan and cut in squares. — Olive Duer, contributed by Mrs. Rob- 
ert King. 

NOUGET. 

Six cups sugar, two pounds English walnuts or almonds, one 
cup water, one pint glucose, whites of six eggs. Boil sugar, 
water and glucose together until it threads from spoon. Pour 
over the well beaten whites of eggs same as for boiled icing, beat 
hard all the time. When partially cool work in the nuts, pour in- 
to a mold lined with a wet cloth. It is better to let stand over 
night before using. — Miss Blanche Hainer. 

CREOLE PRALINES. 

One pound of brown sugar, one-half pound freshly shelled 



PRESBYTERIAN COOKBOOK 217 

pecans, on-e tablespoon butter, four tablespoons water. Set the 
sugar to boil and as it begins to boil add the pecans, cut some 
into fine pieces, others into halves. Let all boil until the mix- 
ture begins to bubble; stir constantly until the syrup threads, 
which it will do in about two or three minutes; they will thus 
be cooked light and flaky. Have ready a damp or buttered 
marble slab or dish. Take a kitchen spoon and drop the mix- 
ture into cakes on the slab, spreading out with the spoon and 
rounding them into a neat round cake about a quarter of an inch 
thick. Let them dry and then take a thin knife and gently raise 
them from the slab. Any kind of nuts or cocoanut can be used 
for these Creole confections. — Mrs. Wibley. 

PINOCHL 

Two cups brown sugar, one cup milk, and half a cup butter. 
.Cook until it stays together in water, then add half a cup of nuts 
and beat until creamy. — Miss Nell Hamilton. 

PRALINES. 

Two pounds "C" sugar, one-half cup milk, one tablespoon vin- 
egar, one teaspoon vanilla. Cook until waxy when dropped into 
water. Remove from fire and beat until it begins to cream, then 
add one and one-half pounds (before shelling), of pecans chopped 
rather fine; mix them in thoroughly, spread in pans and cut in 
squares. — Mrs. Robert King. 

CREAM CANDY. 

Three cups granulated sugar, three-fourths cup white rock 
syrup, one pint cream. Boil until it makes a soft ball in cold 
water, cool a few minutes, then beat until it grains and pour into 
buttered mold. Cut down like Turkish cream candy. Nuts 
improve this. — Mrs. W. H. Richards. 

MAPLE CREAM CANDY. 

One cupful maple sugar, one cupful granulated sugar, two 
teaspoons vinegar, butter size of a walnut, one cupful boiling 
water. Boil sugar, vinegar and water until it stiffens in cold 
water, then add butter and pour into buttered pans. Pull as soon 
as it is cool enough to handle. — Mrs. W. H. Richards. 



218 PRESBYTEBIAN COOK BOOK 

CREAM LOAF CANDY. 

Whites of three eggs beaten stiff. Boil one-half pint of gran- 
ulated sugar in a little water until it threads and pour over the 
beaten whites very slowly, stirring all the time; then boil one 
pint granulated sugar and half a pint of glucose in a little water 
until it threads or is brittle when dropped in water, and pour over 
the above sugar and eggs and beat all until almost cold, then 
add flavoring and nuts (and coloring if desired), and stir in well. 
Then turn on a greased paper and form in a loaf, and set away 
to cool and harden. — Mrs. Jessie Giersch. 

BUTTER-SCOTCH. 

Eight tablespoons molasses, six tablespoons brown sugar, four 
tablespoons butter, two tablespoons vinegar. Boil until it is 
hard in water, add a pinch of soda. This can also be made of 
maple syrup and white sugar. — Mrs. Kendig. 

BUTTER-SCOTCH. 

One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, a 
good teaspoon vinegar. Boil until brittle in water. — H. Ruth 
Jeremy. 

PEANUT BRITTLE. 

Dissolve one coffee cup of granulated sugar in a saucepan, 
use no water. You may stir to assist dissolving and keep it from 
burning; if it threatens to burn, lift from stove a second. The 
instant sugar is dissolved pour in three-fourths coffee cup of 
chopped peanuts; mix rapidly, as it hardens quickly. Pour in 
two buttered pie tins, spread with knife as it should be a rather 
thin sheet. When cold break into pieces. It is better to make 
only this allowance at one cooking, as it is easier to handle. — 
Mrs. Robert King. 

MOLASSES TAFFY. 

One cup brown sugar, one cup molasses, butter size of wal- 
nut. Cook until brittle, when dropped in water. Before taking 
from stove add teaspoon of vanilla and pinch of soda the size of a 
pea. Stir well and pour into puttered plates to cool, then pull. 
— Jennie Kingan. 

BUM BUM. 

Get ten cents' worth of glucose. Put the following in two 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 219 

pans: First pan, two cups sugar, three tablespoons glucose, one 
cup water; second pan, two and one-half cups sugar, one cup 
glucose, one and one-half cups water. While these are cooking 
beat whites of three eggs stiflf. The first pan is done first; pour 
it over whites of eggs and beat thoroughly and tlavor. The 
second pan, when done, add it to the whole. Continue beating 
until too stiff to pour, then put into buttered pans and smooth 
with spoon. Be sure to boil the mixtures five minutes after they 
begin to thread. If desired beat in two-thirds cup of cocoanut 
or nut meats. — Helen Thomson. 

PUFFED RICE BALLS. 

Two cups Sunbeam syrup, one cup sugar. Boil until it makes 
a medium hard ball in cold water. Take puffed rice enough to 
mix well with the candy and form into balls. Sunbeam syrup is 
the best as it is light colored. — Helen Tanner. 

HONEY BOY. 

Four quarts of pop corn when popped. For the candy take 
two cups white sugar, one and one-half cups molasses, five tea- 
spoons butter. Boil the candy about five minutes after it makes 
a long hair. Then pour it on the pop corn and stir until it is mix- 
ed together. Place a white cloth on the table and pour this 
candied pop corn out on it. Mold into layers. — Stewart Thom- 
son. 

FONDANT— (For Icing or Candy.) 

One pound granulated sugar, one-half pint water in granite 
dish, bring to a boil. Do not stir. Boil ten minutes, test in 
cold water. If it rolls between fingers without sticking, set 
aside to cool to blood heat. Then begin to" stir with wooden 
spoon. It will become white and soft and easy to handle. Nuts, 
raisins, figs or any fruit may be used for filling or covering. Any 
flavoring to suit fruit. — I. R. Ingram, contributed by IMrs. E. 
M. Forde. 

MAPLE SUGAR CANDY. 

One cup maple syrup, one-half cup granulated sugar. Boil 
until brittle when dropped in water. Add nuts or cocoanut if 
desired. — I. R. Ingram, contributed by Mrs. E. M. Forde. 



220 PKESBYTBKIAN COOK BOOK 

ORANGE STICKS. 

Cut orange, or grape fruit, rinds into long thin strips, leav- 
ing on as much pulp as possible. Put into a saucepan and cover 
with cold water. When it comes to a boil, change the water on 
oranges three times (if grape fruit five times), the last time, 
draining well. Make a syrup in this proportion: To four med- 
ium-sized oranges take two cups granulated sugar and one-half 
cup water. When it comes to the boil, put the rinds in and 
boil slowly until clear and tender. When done, lay out on a 
towel and when cool enough to handle roll in granulated sugar. 
This quantity of syrup will do for two grape fruit. Left over 
syrup is nice for flavoring or for candy. To slice oranges, cut 
them in halves, take the contents out, then cut them in strips. 
— Mrs. William Burgett Irwin. 

CRYSTALLIZED VIOLETS. 

Pick the petals one by one from the flowers and put them 
in water. Drain on a sieve. Make a fine syrup equal in bulk to 
the flowers. Skim it and add the flowers; let the syrup boil up 
about seven times. Remove from the fire, let stand till the 
sugar forms a coating around the petals. Then drain them. Sep- 
arate such as adhere to one another, spread them on a paper for 
an hour or so till perfectly dry and then put in boxes, lined 
with waxed papers, and keep in cool dry place. For crj^stallized 
rose petals, proceed in exactly the same manner as for the vio- 
lets. These dainty confections are expensive to buy, but so eas- 
ily prepared when directions are carefully followed. — Mrs. Wib- 
ley. 



rRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 221 



"Kaw Chief" "Sunburst" 

When vou see either of the above names on an article, 
be assured that the quality IS OF THE BEST. 

You will find -KA^V CHIEF" and -'SUXBUBST" Brands at all stores 
on the following goods: 

California Canned Fruit Extracts— Pm/'« Fruit Flavors 

California Dried Fruit Ground Spices— 0/" E.rcellent Quality 

Columbia EiverEed Salmon I\o\iT—That Makes Good Bread 

Canned Cove Oysters Coffee and Tea— TAs^ ExMlarate the 
Canned Vegetables--!'^ rarietie>t j/^-,^,, „^^ Refresh the Body 

Canned Condensed Milk 

Canned Pineapple And Numerous Other Goods . 

"KAW CHIEF" Represents the Highest Quality 
"SUNBURST" Represents the Best Standard Quality 

Every "'Kaw Chief ' anil "Sunburst" item bought is guaranteed to 
please. You take no chances. They are guaranteed to the retailer, whicl* 
protects the consumer, and in itself is assurance of their sterling quality. 

The Theo. Poehler Mercantile Company 

LAWRENCE==EMPORIA, KANSAS 



J.JAY BUCK SAM'L S. SPENCER 



LAW orricE 



BUCK R SPENCER 

OVER EMPORI* NATIONAL BANK 
POST OFFICE BOX * 9 * EMPORIA, KANSAS 

The STAK GROCERY 

S. T. WILSON & SON, Proprietors 

Sells the Best of Everything 

Fresh Nuts a Specialty Emporia, Kansas 



222 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

A Talk to the Point by 
the Man on the Oven Door 

You want to buy a good range.' Then let us show you the 




Si^^uueABXJE. 



The "Stay Satisfactory'RaAge 



It has superior features to all others. Duplex draft damp- 
er, heavy asbestos lining, pin extension water front, polished 
top and body. A great fuel saver. 

Sold by J. E. KINCAID 

SUCCESSOR TO LOY & M'DII.L 

BIGGEST LOAF OF BEST BREAD 

IN 5C A.ND IOC LOAVKS 



TIFFATsrXVS COR]NrER 
BAKERY 

Makers of Everything That is Good in Our Line 

PHONK 70 (i-~ COMlftERCIAL STREET 

The J. A. Moore Drug Co. 

A FULL LINE OF DRUGS 

506 Commercial Street Emporia, Kansas 



Pickles and Catsups 



"Variety the very spice of life, that giv€s it all its flavor." 

— Cowper. 

It is generally understood that pickles can be bought ch-eaper 
than they can be made, nevertheless, there is always a certain 
amount of satisfaction is using homemade preparations, as by 
this means the quality of the article can be assured beyond all 
question. In making pickles, care must be taken that the vege- 
tables and fruit used for the purpose are procured at the right 
season, that they are perfectly sound, not over ripe. The vin- 
egar must be of the best quality. White wine or the best cider 
vinegar should be used. In making them, enameled or stone ves- 
sels and wooden spoons should be used. Pickles should always 
be kept in glass or stone jars. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Pour boiling water over half a bushel of cucumbers. When 
cool, drain, and sprinkle dry salt over them, half a pint for a 
hundred medium-sized cucumbers, and cover again with boiling 
water. This brine must be boiled and poured ovei- the pickles 
for seven mornings counting the first boiling, one. The eighth 
daj', let them stand on the back of the stove where they can be 
kept hot without boiling, for several hours in weak vinegar. 
When they look plump, wipe dry and pack in jars with the spic- 
es, and cover with- boiling vinegar, one-half pound each of white 
and black mustard seed, one-half ounce each allspice, red an'd 
black pepper, mace, a little onion, cinnamon, horse-radish, cel- 
ery seed, caraway seed, scant. — Mrs. W. E. Day, contributed by 
Mrs. J. ]\I. Tanner. • 

CUCUMBERS IN BRINE. 

Leave at least one inch of stem to the cucumbers and wash 
well in cold water. Make a brine of salt and water strong enough 
to bear an egg; put your cucumbers in this as you gather them 
each day from the vines. Place a weight upon them sufficient 



224 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

to keep them under the brine. When wanted for use, take out 
what is necessary and soak them two or three days, or until the 
salt is out, then pour boiling spiced vinegar over them. Place a 
few pieces of horse-radish root in to make brittle. — Mrs. R. B. 
McGahey. 

MUSTARD PICKLES. 

Chop fine one pint good-sized cucumbers, one of onions, one 
head cabbage and six red peppers. Add one pint small cucum- 
bers, also very small onions, leaving whole. Sprinkle with half cup 
salt and let them stand twenty-four hours. Take one cup su- 
gar ,two quarts vinegar, one tablespoon dry mustard, three of 
white mustard seed, half ounce white celery seed and half a 
cup flour. Mix dry mustard and flour in a little cold vinegar. 
Then add the rest of the vinegar, sugar, mustard seed and celery 
seed and let come to a boil. Seal and put awaj-. — Mrs. Mars- 
land. 

MUSTARD PICKLES. 

Take small cucumbers, onions, beans and cauliflower in pro- 
portions desired; wash and sprinkle on them a teacup salt to one 
gallon of boiling water. Pour the water on them and drain the 
brine off and scald it two mornings, pouring it back scalding 
hot. The next morning scald in clear water, put in prepared vin- 
egar. For two quarts of vinegar use one and one-half pounds 
sugar, one-half pound ground white mustard. Scald vinegar, 
mix mustard in cold vinegar until smooth, then add sugar and 
vinegar to that in the kettle, scald again but do not boil, stir 
or the mustard will stick. Pack the pickles in jars and pour the 
vinegar over them either hot or cold. — Mrs. S. R. Taylor. 

MUSTARD PICKLES. 

One quart of small cucumbers, green tomatoes, large cucum- 
bers, chop fine small white onions, four green peppers, four stalks 
celery, one cauliflower. Soak all the vegetables except tomatoes, 
in brine of one cup salt, three quarts water for'tv/enty-four hours. 
For tomatoes, make a brine with two cups salt. Drain vegetables, 
adding fresh brine, and cook until soft but not broken. Mix one 
cup flour, two cups sugar, six dessert spoons mustard, teaspoon 
each turmeric and paprika, then add one cup water and three of 
vinegar. Cook directly over heat five minutes then in a double 



PRESUYTERIAN COOK BOOK 225 

boikr one-half hour. Pour over vegetables and when boiling 
hot, jar and seal. — Elizabeth Frances Greene. 



irt\ 



/ CHOPPED PICKLES. 

One gallon cabbage, one gallon green tomatoes, one quart 
onions, two or three green peppers, all chopped fine. Sprinkle 
salt over the tomatoes and let stand awhile, then drain off the 
water and put in the other ingredients, then add four tablespoons 
ground mustard, two tablespoons powdered ginger, one table- 
spoon cloves, one tablespoon mace, one tablespoon cinnamon, 
three pounds sugar, three ounces turmeric powder, one ounce 
celery seed. Mix well, cover with good vinegar and boil slowly 
till tender. — Mrs. Woodard. 

HIGDON PICKLES. 

One peck green tomatoes, twelve onions, eight or ten green 
peppers, chopped fine, sprinkle with salt, drain dry, add one-half 
pound white mustard seed, four dozen whole cloves, one and 
one-half pounds sugar, one ounce turmeric, one ounce celery seed, 
seven pints vinegar. Boil vinegar and sugar together, let cool, 
pour over and mix two tablespoons ground mustard, one table- 
spoon sweet oil. Put in glass jars. — Mrs. H. A. Gilchrist. 

SPANISH PICKLES. 

Two large heads cabbage, seven green peppers, three dozen 
small onions, two quarts green beans, one large head cauliflower, 
three dozen small cucumbers, sliced; put all in salt and water over 
night. In the morning drain off and add one ounce celery seeds, 
one-half ounce turmeric, one-half pound mustard, one-half pound 
brown sugar, vinegar to cover. Cook slowly about two hours 
— Mrs. A. B. Quinton, Topeka, Kansas. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

One peck green tomatoes sliced, six large onions sliced, one 
teacup salt over both, mix thoroughly and let stand over night; 
pour off liquor in morning, pour three quarts water over toma- 
toes and boil for twenty minutes. Drain and throw liquor 
away. Take three quarts vinegar and two pounds sugar, two 
tablespoons each allspice, cloves, ginger, cinnamon, mustard; 
stir well through the tomatoes and put away in stone jars. — 
Mrs. Mary Johnson. 



226 PRESHYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 

SWEET GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

Eight pounds of green tomatoes sliced rath^^r thin, add'fonr 
pounds brown sugar, let stand until rather juicy. Then put over 
fire and boil slowly until tomatoes are tender; heat a quart of 
cider vinegar with a kvel tablespoon cloves, several blades of 
mace and two sticks cinnamon. Pour over the tomatoes and 
cook a quarter of an hour longer. Cool and put in jars and tie 
up well.— Mrs. J. P. Ross. 

FAVORITE PICKLES. 

One quart raw cabbag-e chopped fine, one quart boiled beets, 
chopped fine, one cup sugar, tablespoon salt, one tablespoon 
black pepper, one-fourth teaspoon red pepper, one cup grated 
horse-radish; cover with cold vinegar and keep from air. — Mrs. 
Tressler. , 

TOMATO RELISH. 

One peck ripe tomatoes chopped fine, drain over night, six 
onions chopped fine, seven red peppers, two cups chopped celery, 
three pints vinegar, two pounds brown sugar, two cups salt, two 
ounces white mustard seed, one ounce cinnamon; no cooking. — 
Mary A. White. 

PICKLED BEANS. 

The beans should be gathered young. Place in strong brine; 
when turning yellow, remove and wipe dry; boil the vinegar with 
two ounces whole pepper and one ounce each ginger and mace, 
to each quart of vinegar. Pour this over the beans, add one 
spoonful soda; do not seal until cold. — Mrs. Arnold. 

CAULIFLOWER PICKLES. 

For twelve heads cauliflower use five quarts vinegar, five cups 
brown sugar, six eggs, one bottle French mustard, tv/o table- 
spoons ginger, a few cloves of garlic, one-half teaspoon cayenne 
pepper, two green peppers, butter size of an eg^, one ounce pul- 
verized turmeric; beat well together eggs, sugar, mustard, ginger 
and turmeric. Then boil ten minutes in vinegar with garlic and 
peppers. Boil cauliflower in salt water until tender. Place care- 
fully in jars and pour in the boiling mixture and seal. — Mrs. A. 
T. Porter. 



/ 



P H E S B Y T E K I A N COOK HO O K 227 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES— (Sweet.) 

One peck green tomatoes sliced the day before you are ready 
for pickling, sprinkling them through and through with salt, not 
too heavily. In the morning drain of¥ the liquor that will drain 
from them. Have a doz€n good-sized onions rather coarsely 
sliced. Tak'C a suitable vessel and put in a layer of sliced 
tomatoes, then one of onion and between each layer sprinkle the 
following spices: Six red peppers chopp-ed coarsely, one cup su- 
gar, one tablespoon ground allspice, one tablespoon ground cin- 
namon, one teaspoon cloves, one tablespoon mustard; turn over 
three pints of good vinegar or enough completely to cover them. 
Boil until tender: This is a choice recipe. — Mrs. Dennis Mad- 
den. 

PICKLED BEETS. 

Take the beets, ckanse and boil three hours. When cold, peel 
and slice into a jar and cover with vinegar prepared in the fol- 
lowing manner: Boil half an ounce each of cloves, pepper, mace 
and ginger in a pint of vinegar. When cold add another pint and 
seal. — Mrs. T. Ridgely. 

PICKLED ONIONS. 

Small silver skin onions, remove outer skins, so that each is 
white and clean. Put them into brine for two days; bring vine- 
gar to a boiling point, add a little mace and whole red peppers 
and pour hot over the onions, well drained from the brine. — 
Mrs. Schaffer. 

WATERMELON PICKLES. 

Prepare rind, then pour over a boiling hot solution of weak 
alum water to cover and let stand twenty-four hours. Wash and 
boil until tender in clear water; make a syrup of equal measures 
of sugar and vinegar, two sticks cinnamon, cloves, ginger; boil 
melon in syrup until clear and then seal. — Mrs. J. McM. Tay- 
lor. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP— (Cold.) 

Twenty-four green cucumbers, pare and grate se\'en onions, 
three red peppers, chop fine and drain two or more hours; add 
three teaspoons black pepper, four of salt and one quart of vin- 
egar. White wine vinegar is the best. Mix all thoroughly and 



228 PRE'SBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 

bottle at onc€ in small bottles and seal with wax. Very fine serv- 
ed on cold meats. — Mrs. Nellie Pemshon Morgan. 

SWEET PICKLE CUCUMBERS. 

Slice cucumbers in half-inch slices, pack in one gallon jars, 
salt to make brine, 1-et stand twenty-four hours; drain off brine 
and stand in cold water a short time and drain. Take one quart 
of vinegar, one-half cup sugar and cook cucumbers in this un- 
til tender. Drain all this liquor off and save for another time; 
then make a syrup of one pint vinegar, one pint sugar, one-half 
teaspoon cloves, allspice, whole spices and one teaspoon 
cassia buds; when boiling pour over the pickles. Let stand for 
tw-enty-four hours, drain and bring syrup to a boil and pour over 
again for twenty-four hours. Put all together and let boil; dip 
pickles out and put in jars, let syrup boil ten minutes then pour 
over pickles. When cold, cover with paraffine before sealing. 
— Mrs. John A. Moore. 

RIPE PEACH PICKLES. 

Pare the peaches and drop in vinegar that has been boiled with 
one teaspoon allspice, one cup sugar to each quart of vinegar, 
twelve cloves, three large sticks cinnamon; tie spices in cloth 
before boiling. — Mrs. M. H. Parkman. 

SALTED CHERRIES. 

Fill quart can with half-stemmed cherries, add a tea- 
spoon salt, then fill jar with cold vinegar. Seal tight. An ex- 
cellent relish. — Mrs. E. G. Eustis. 

HIGDON PICCALILLI. 

One peck green tomatoes, twelve onions, ten green peppers, 
chop all fine, press dry and sprinkle with salt; boil one-half 
hour in three quarts vinegar, add one-half pound white mustard 
seed, one dozen cloves, one ounce turmeric, one povmd brown su- 
gar, one ounce celery seed. When cold add a large tablespoon 
mustard and two of salad oil or butter. — Mrs. S. R. Taylor. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Twenty large red tomatoes, three onions, five peppers, half 
red and half green, chopped fine, three cups viiiegar, six table- 



PUESBYTKKIAM COOK HOOK 229 

spoon sugar, three tablespoons salt, two tablespoons whole 
cloves, three teaspoons cinnamon; boil thr-ee hours slowly. — Mrs. 
H. A. Loy. 

CHOWCHOW. 

One gallon of chopped cabbage, four onions, two pounds su- 
gar, one quart vinegar, one tablespoon black pepper, two table- 
spoons allspice, celery seed, mustard seed and ground mustard. 
Let cabbage and onions stand in salt and water two hours. 
Then drain and put in kettle with spiced vinegar, and boil. — Mrs. 
C. K. Judd. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Thirty large ripe tomatoes, scald and peel, ten large onions, 
four large red peppers; chop all together fine, then add twenty- 
two tablespoons granulated sugar, five tablespoons salt, seven 
teacups cider vinegar; boil one and one-half hours or until thick. 
■ — Mrs. George R. Jones. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Five large onions, eight green peppers, chop fine thirtj^ ripe 
tomatoes peeled and cut; five tablespoons sugar, three of salt, 
three cups vinegar, boil all together two and one-half hours; 
bottle and seal. — Mrs. H. A. Gilchrist. 

CHILI SAUCE— (Without Cooking.) 

One peck ripe tomatoes, two cups chopped onions, one cup 
chopped celery, one cup horse-radish grated, two cups brown su- 
gar, four green peppers, four red peppers, one cup salt, six cups 
vinegar, two tablespoons allspice; chop tomatoes and let stand 
over night to drain. In the morning mix all together and place 
in glass jars. — Mrs. E. G. Eustis. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

One gallon tomatoes, strained, six tablespoons salt, thre table- 
spoons black pepper, one tablespoon cinnamon, one tablespoon 
cloves, two tablespoons allspice, one and one-half pints vinegar 
boiled down one-half. One peck tomatoes will make one gallon, 
strained. — Mrs. Schaffer. 

OIL PICKLES. 

One hundred cucumbers sliced fine. Put one cup salt on these 



230 PRKSBYTKRIAN COOK BOOK 

and soak three hours. Drain ofif dry and mix with three pints 
small onions sliced fine, one ounce ground white pepper, two of 
white mustard seed, on-e of celery seed, small piece of alum, one 
pint olive oil. Cover with cold vinegar. — Mrs. Grabendike. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Slice ripe tomatoes enough to fill two gallon jars, salt lightly 
and let stand until they ferment, possibly twenty-four hours. 
Add three medium-sized onions, cook and strain. To one gallon 
of strained tomatoes add one pint of good cider vinegar, one-half 
cup sugar, cooked till thick. Then add one teaspoon cayenne 
pepper; fill bottles, add one whole clove to each bottle and seal. 
—Mrs. G. W. Wilcox. 

COLD TOMATO CATSUP. 

One-half peck ripe tomatoes, one cup chopped onions, one cup 
white mustard seed, scant one-half cup salt, one-half cup sugar; 
remove seeds and chop two red peppers fine, ten stalks celery 
chopped, two teaspoons black pepper, one tablespoon cloves, 
one tablespoon cinnamon, one quart cider vinegar. Chop toma- 
toes fine and strain; mix thoroughly. Let stand two days and it 
is ready for use. — Mrs. F. J. Dale. 

QUINCE SWEET PICKLES. 

Choose ripe, yellow quinces of fine flavor. Scrub with a 
small vegetable brush to remove the down, wipe dry and cut out 
any spots or decayed portions. Slice, without paring, into 
rounds a fourth of an inch thick, leaving in both core and seeds, 
unless imperfect, then weigh. Put the fruit, a thin layer at a 
time, in a steamer or colander over boiling water, cover closely 
and steam until it is perfectly tender, then place in a stone jar. 
Make a syrup of four pounds of sugar, a pint of vinegar of 
medium strength, a pint of the water over which the fruit was 
steamed, an ounce of stick cinnamon, a heaping tablespoon of 
allspice berries, and a level tablespoon of whole cloves to seven 
pounds of the fruit. Then proceed as directed above. 



PKESHYTERIAN COOK HOOK 



231 



RALSTON BLUE CROSS CERE \LS 

■• '111. IT>(j}n^1 (hiality of Goods on the Market- 



tRIDBlt CAKES. MurriWS Ooe Pinl.MlSlWS'" 

' - Ont "Sew '"' "* 





Send to 'Us for Descriptive Booklet and '-Select Eecijies" 

THE TOPEKA MILLING^ COMPAIVY 



TOPEKA, KANSAS 



WHITE HOUSE COFFEE 

is undoubtedly the purest and most perfect blend of 
coflfee that can be obtained— it has made the ex()res 
sion: 

"Boston Roasted Coffee a synonym for perfection in every 
home and public place where good coffee is the uniform rule" 



J. F. KENNEY, SPECIAL AGENT 



Willis & Company 

Insurance, All Kinds, Real Estate Bargains 
Surety Bonds 



413 Commercial Street 



Emporia, Kansas 



232 



PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 



MVSEIR BROS. 

French. German and Austrian China. White and Decorated English Earthenware 
Rich American Cut Glass. Plain and Decorated Lafnps. 

Pressed and Blown Glassware. Carvers and Silver Plated Ware. 

See our complete lines and eret our prices and you will realize how it is 
possib e for us lo show such larsre assortments and maintain such a SU- 
PERIOR CROCKERY STORE IN EMPORIA. 

609 Commercial Street, Emporia, Kansa-s 



All of che element-' of nerfec ion are combined 
in the 




fv^ 



Dress Shield 



ODORLESS-IMPERVIOVS- HYGIENIC 

GUARANTEED. Wewillp?y for daw'ageto 
garment resulting fnm an imperfectly made 
OMO Dress Sl.ieJd 

All Styles andSizes. Send for illus.trate'l circular 
The OMO MFQ. CO., Middletown, Conn. 



ARTISTIC MONUMENTS 



The chief characteristic of a monument should be simple, 
dignified beauty. We have them. 



Low Prices 



Satisfactory Work 



The Emporia Monument Co. 

310 Commercial Streei Phone 42 



c; 




^ ^r/ipicyyw ar^pr^ 



PIANO SCHOOL 

882 MECHANIC STREET PHONE I-IT 

EMPORIA, KANSAK 

Senu roR Catax-ooi-e 



Canned Fruit and Jellies 



HINTS FOR CANNING. 

Instead of heating glass jars before filling, rinse them out 
thoroughly with cold water but do not wipe them. Fill as al- 
ways to overflowing, then seal tight. Not one jar will break 
in the proc-ess and time and labor will be saved. When canning 
tomatoes, add three tablespoons of lime water to each quart of 
tomatoes while they are cooking and this will prevent fermenta- 
tion. For this solution, put a lump of slaked lime the size of a 
goose egg in a quart jar and fill with water. Stir until lime is 
dissolved. 

HINTS FOR MAKING JELLY. 

For your jelly bag make a huge cornucopia of double cheese 
cloth properly scalded; place a broom handle over the backs of 
two chairs in a room free from dust. Hang the bag over this by 
two stout loops; pour in the hot fruit and let hang all night. The 
weight of the fruit will extract every drop of juice; when fill- 
ing jelly glasses, place a silver spoon in the glass to prevent 
breaking, then pour in jelly and remove spoon; cover with par- 
affine to prevent molding. 

TABLE FOR CANNING FRUIT. 

Time for boiling — Quantity sugar per quart. 

Apricots — Ten minutes, six ounces. 

Apples — Ten minutes, six ounces. 

Crab Apples — Twenty-five minutes, eight ounces. 

Berries — Six minutes, four ounces. 

Gooseberries — Eight minutes, eight ounces. 

Cherries — Five minutes., six ounces. 

Currants — Six minutes, eight ounces. 

Sour pears, (whole) — Thirty minutes, eight ounces. 

Peaches — Eight minutes, four ounces. 

Plums — Ten minutes, eight ounces. 



234 TKESBYTEKIAN COOK BOOK 

Pineapple, sliced — Fifteen minutes, six ounces. 
Rhubarb — Ten minutes, ten ounces. 
Quinces — Thirty minutes, ten ounces. 

CANNED CORN. 

Cut corn from the cob, press into glass jars till no air remains 
in jars, seal up tight, lay in wash boiler till almost full, laying 
something in bottom of boiler to protect cans; boil three hours. 
When done take old rubbers ofif, put on others, wrap in papers; 
set in a cool place, be sure corn is fresh and not too old. — Mrs. 
W. E. Hillerman. 

CANNED CORN. 

Slice from the cob as much well tilled green corn as -iesired, 
measure it and put on to boil. Dissolve one and one-fcurtli 
ounces of tartaric acid in one pint of water. When the corn 
reaches the boiling point add to each pint one tablespoon of this 
solution, and can. When opened for use add one pinch of soda 
before dressing for table. — Mrs. S. C. K. 

CANNING TOMATOES WHOLE. 

Select iin-e tomatoes, scald, skin and laj' in rows in a preserv- 
ing kettle, placing stem end gf vegetable down. Cover with boil- 
ing water and cook until fruit is thoroughly heated through. Pack 
closely in new tin cans and cover with the boiling liquid. Seal. — 
Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 

TOMATO PRESERVES. 

Scald and peel carefully small pear shaped tomatoes, not too 
ripe; prick with needle to prevent bursting and put their weight 
in sugar over them; let stand over night, then pour off all the 
juice into a preserving kettle and boil until it becomes thick; 
add the white of an egg, then the tomatoes and boil until trans- 
parent. A piece of ginger root or one lemon to a poundof fruit, 
sliced thin and cooked with the fruit, will improve it. — Mrs. R. 
B. McGahey. 

TOMATO PULP. 

Take small tomatoes, wash and cut out any defects. Crush 
into preserving kettle and boil until fine. Rub through a sieve to 



P R E S B Y T E K I A N COOK 1? O O K 235 

remov-e skins and seeds. Return to the kettle and bring to a 
good boil. Seal in new cans. The water that first runs through 
sieve throw away as it makes pulp too thin. This may be used 
for soups, salads or catsups. — Mrs. J. M. Tanner. 

CANNING APPLES AND QUINCES. 

Pare and cut equal quantities of apples and (luinces. First 
cook the quinces in sufficient water to cover them, till they are 
tender. Take them out and cook the apples in the same water. 
Put in a jar or kettle a layer of quinces, then of apples till all are 
u.sed. Pour over them a syrup made of half a pound of sugar to 
a pound of quinces, dissolved in a little water and let stand over 
night. The next day heat them thoroughly and seal in cans. — • 
Mrs. McGahey. 

CHOPPED APPLE PRESERVES. 

Take good sour apples, pare and chop fine as mince meat. 
Take equal weight of sugar, boil until apples look clear. Use a 
few pieces of ginger root and lemon, pineapple, quince or cin- 
namon for flavoring. Use the fruit, not flavorings for this. This 
resembles imported sweetmeats and will keep for years. — Mrs. 
F. M. Keeler. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

\, Wash and slice six oranges and one lemon, peeling and all, 

thin. To each pound of fruit allow one and one-half quarts 
water. Set aside for twenty-four hours, then boil very hard for 
forty-five minutes. Set aside for another twenty-four hours, 
weigh again and to each pound of fruit add one pound sugar, then 
add juice of another lemon, boil fiercely again for forty-five min- 
utes, skim often. This will make twelve glasses.^Mrs. L. D. 
Jacobs. 

/ PLUM AND APPLE JAM. 

/ After canning plums there is often some left, not enough to 

fill a can. A very nice jam can be made of this by putting it 
through a sieve and adding the same quantity of good apples 
cooked. Sweeten to taste and put in a very little cinnamon and 
cloves. Cook an hour, then tie up in jars when cold. — Mrs. M. 
Johnson. 



V 



236 PRESBYTERIAN ('•() O K BOOK 

CONDE SAUCE. 

Five pounds plums, five pounds sugar, one pound seeded 
raisins, one pint water. Cut plums in equal pieces and cook all 
forty minutes, then add grated rind and juice of three oranges 
and cook thirty minutes longer. — Mrs. Brown, Eureka Springs, 
Arkansas. 

CHERRY PRESERVE. 

Take May cherries, pit them, pour scalding water over them 
and drain. Use three-fourths pound sugar to one pound of cher- 
ries. Boil until clear but not too strong. Many who cannot di- 
gest the ch-erries whole, can eat the jam. This is very nice with 
meats. — Mrs. F. M. Keeler. 

GINGER PEARS. 

Use hard pears for these. Peel, core and slice thin. Weigh 
the fruit, using three-fourths of sugar to one pound of fruit. 
Juice of four lemons, slice the lemons in thin pieces, one-half 
pound ginger root and one pint of water; boil one hour. This 
proportion is for €ight pounds of fruit. — Mrs. DeLang. rontribnt- 
ed by Mrs. Davenport. 

PRESERVED PEARS. 

Select smooth, sweet pears of a kind which will not break 
when cooked; pare, halve and remove the cores, drop in cold 
water as you pare. Put a little over one quart of granulated 
sugar into your preserving kettle, add just water enough to 
moisten the sugar; when warm put into this two quarts of pears, 
let them cook very slowly for several hours; when th-e syrup is 
thick dip the preserves into glass cans and seal. — Mrs. Donald' 
son. 

CANNED PEACHES. 

Pare, cut in half and stone, taking care not to break the fruit, 
and drop in cold water as pared. Allow a heaping table- 
spoon sugar to each quart of fruit, scattering it between the lay- 
ers. Fill your kettle and heat slowly to a boil. When every 
piece of fruit is heated through,' can and seal. Put a cup of water 
in the bottom of the kettle before packing it with fruit, lest the 
lower layer should burn. — Alma McGahey. 



P li K S B Y T E U I A N COOK BOOK 237 

STRAWBERRY PRESERVE. 

One heaping pint of berries, one 1-evcI pint of sugar; put just 
enough water in kettle to dissolv-e sugar, then put in berries and 
sugar until three pints of each. Boil twenty minutes ov-er hot 
fire, then pour in platter and set in sun for eight hours. (If right, 
roll up and place in cans; cold seal.) This is delicious to serve 
in winter with whipped cream. — Mrs. Hutchinson, Garnett. 

CITRON AND QUINCE PRESERVES. 

Pare and cut the citron in inch pieces, boil hard in middling 
strong alum water for thirty minutes, drain and boil in fresh 
water till the color is changed and they are tender. Wash care- 
fully the quinces, pare, quarter, core and halve the quarters; boil 
the cores and parings in water to cover them for one and one- 
half hour; remove them and add the prepared quince to the 
liquid. Boil, and when they begin to be tender add the citron and 
three-fourths pound white sugar to every pound of fruit. — Mrs. 
Herbert. 

ELDERBERRY BUTTER. 

Three pints of apple sauce made of tart apples, put through 
a colander and made very fine, five pints of elderberry juice cook- 
ed and strained the same as for jelly, six pints of sugar or, if de- 
sired, sweeter. One pint of sugar for each pint of fruit, cook un- 
til thick. Makes about one gallon of butter. — Mrs. William B. 
Irwin. 



ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Five pounds oranges, two lemons, eight pounds sugar, five 
quarts water; put water on fruit and boil down until thick. Then 
add sugar and boil until it jellies. Slice oranges very thin in 
preparing them. — Mrs. Jonas Eckdall. 



CONSERVE. 

Three pint bowls of rhubarb cut in small pieces, three oranges, 
grated rind and pulp, three pints sugar, one pound English 
walnuts. Cook together' without water. — Mrs. Carrie Jones Sau- 
ber. 



238 PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK 

APPLE JELLY. 

Choose tart spicy apples, wash, peel and quarter, using core 
and peeling when perfect. Boil these separate and strain. Place 
all in bag to drain. To every pint of juice use three-fourths cup 
sugar; place over fire and let boil until when dropped in cold 
water it will become hard. Remove and pour into jelly glasses. 
— Mrs. T. Jones. 

GRAPE JELLY. 

Jelly grapes should be only partly ripened fruit; remove grapes 
from stem and put in kettle to boil; when soft remove and pour 
into cloth to strain. For every pint of juice obtained use one cup 
sugar; boil until done. Place in glasses and seal with paraffine. 
— Mrs. M. Arnold. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Two pounds of bitter oranges, two lemons, or if only sweet 
oranges be bought, use three lemons. Nine pounds crystallized 
sugar, fourteen breakfast cups water. Take rinds from fruit and 
slice as thin as possible, into fine chips. If skins are very thick 
cut part of the white pith and throw it away; slice thin the 
oranges can be bought, use three lemons. Nine pounds crystallized 
cups of water and washing well before throwing pips away. Place 
chips of peel and fruit and the fourteen cups water, including the 
cup that contains pips, into porcelain or granite iron kettle and 
boil gently one hour, then set aside in cool cellar for twenty-four 
hours, then put on fire and let come to a boil. Test in usual way 
to see if it stiffens, if so it is done. Put in your jelly glasses, 
cover with paper brushed with white of an egg. — Mrs. W. H. 
Roberts. 

FRUIT JAM. 

Boil any kind of fruit till very tender, pour in bag and let all 

the juice drain from it. Add sugar to the juice, and boil until it 

will rope from the spoon. Then add the pulp which has been put 

through a colander, stir while letting it boil. — Mrs. M. E. Snyder. 

SPICED GOOSEBERRIES. 

To ten pounds gooseberries take seven and one-half pounds 
sugar, two pints vinegar, three tablespoons cinnamon, other 



!• R*E S B Y T E U 1 A N COOK BOOK 239 

spices if desired; cook until thick enough not to run on plate; 
about one hour. Serve with meats. — Mrs. Davenport. 

QUINCE HONEY. 

Five large quinces, five pounds sugar, one quart water, grate 
quinces after paring into the water, add the sugar and boil twen- 
ty-five minutes. — Mrs. J. A. Moore. 



240 PKESBYTEItlAN COOK BOOK 



THIS BOOK WAS PRINTED 



EMPORIA 



GAZETTE 



WHAT DO YOU THINK OF IT? 



To Remove Stains 



Character of 
Stain 



Agent 



Method of Removing 



CoflFee, Tea 
Chocolate 



Fniit 



Ink 



MUde 



Paint 
Machine Oil 

Wax 

Blood 

Perspiration 

Scorch 
Iron Rust 



Hot Water 

Glycerine 
Egg Yolk 



Boiling water 
Sulphur 



Milk 
TaUow 

Salts of Lemon 
Javelle water 

Lemon 
Soap & chalk 



Alcohol 
Lard 

Turpentine 

Cold water 

Absorb't paper 

Salt and water 
Cold raw starch 

Soap Solution 



Lemon juice 

and salt 



of 
Tartar 



Wagon Gr'se 
Brass 



Place stained part over bowl and p)our boiling water 
through from a height. 

Rub spot with glycerine; wash. 

Dilute egg yolk with little water, rub spot thorough- 
ly, wash out with cold water before laundering. 

Spread stained part over bowl, pour water through. 
Moisten with cold water, hold over furnace of burn- 
ing sulphur. 

Soak stained {X)rtion in sweet milk, then wash. 
Dip in hot tallow, let remain awhile, then wash. 
Pour salts of lemon or Javelle water on stain, allow 
to remain a few minutes, then wash thoroughly. 

Rub with lemon juice, lay in strong sunshine. 
Rub with soap, scrape chalk over it, rub in well, lay 
on grass in sunshine. Repeat if necessary. 

Soak in alcohol, rub. 

Rub thoroughly with lard before laundering. 

Rub thoroughly with turpentine. 

With a cloth rub from outside toward center. In 
washable fabrics use soap with cold water. 

Place absorbent paper on goods, press with hot iron. 

Soak in a solution of salt and cold water. 
Rub on wet and allow to dry. 

Place in soap solution in strong sunshine. Persevere. 
Hard to remove. 

Expose to strong sunshine for a few hours. 

Squeeze lemon juice on spot, sprinkle with salt and 
and expose to strong sunshine. Repeat if neces- 
sary. 



Lard 



Moisten rust spot, rub with cream of tartar, then roll 
cloth tightly, place in tepid water and bring to a 
boil. The rust will disappear. 

Rub well into stain, then wash. 



INDEX 



SOUPS AND COCKTAILS. 



Oyster Cocktails 13 

Grape PVuit Cocktails .... 13 

Orange Cocktails 13 

Prune Cocktails 13 

Clam Cocktails 13 

Directions for Soups 14 

Bouillon 15 

Clam Soup 15 

Oyster Soup 15 

Vegetable Soup 16 

Chicken Soup 16 

Tomato Soup, without 

meat 16 



Tomato Soup, with onion 16 

Cream of Celery Soup ... 17 

Bean and Tomato Soup . . 17 

Bean Soup 17 

Pea Soup 17 

Asparagus Soup 17 

Pea Puree 18 

Corn Soup 18 

Sour Cream Soup 18 

Vegetable Soup 19 

Eggballs for Soup 19 

Noodles 19 

Croutons 19 

Caramel for Soup 19 



OYSTERS. 



Pigs in Blanket, with 

sweet potato croquets.. 23 

Creamed Oysters 21 

Oysters on Toast 21 

Fried Oysters 21 



Scalloped Oysters 22 

Oyster Celery 23 

Oyster Patties 22 

Creamed Oysters 21 

Baked Oysters 22 

Bread Patties 22 



FISH. 



General Directions 25 

Sauces for Fish 31 

Baked Fish 26 

Boiled Fish 30 

Fried Fish 30 

Boiled Salmon - . . 26 

Kedgeree 26 

Scalloped Salmon 28 

Salmon Loaves 27 

Fried Frogs 28 

Fish Rolls 28 

Hollandaise Sauce 30 



Tartar Sauce 31 

Sauce Tartare 31 

Delicious Sauce 31 

Salmon Loaf 27 

Salmon Turbot 28 

Fish Turbot 25 

Fish Chowder 25 

Fish in Ramekins 26 

Halibut a la Creole 28 

Codfish Soufifle 28 

Canned Lobster 30 

Codfish Balls 28 



POULTRY AND GAME. 



Directions and Sauces .... 33 

Roast Turkey 33 

Roast Goose 33 

Baked Mallard Ducks 35 



Chicken Noodles 35 

Chicken Dumplings 35 

Pressed Chicken 35 

Smothered Chicken 35 

Baked Squab or Quail ... "6 



Chicken Pie 34 

Chick-en Turbot 34 

Chicken in Ramekins .... 34 

Steamed Fried Chicken . . 34 



Fried Quail 36 

Squab on Toast 36 

Squab Pie 36 

Browned Rabbit 37 



MEATS AND RELISHES. 



Meats and Relishes 39 

Directions for Cooking . . 39 

Hamburg Steak 42 

Beef Steak Smothered in 

Onions 42 

Fried Sweet-breads 42 

Fried Calf's Brains 42 

Broiled Sweet-breads .... 43 

Browned Hash 45 

Scrapple 45 

Stuffed Mangoes 45 

Loin of Veal With Dressing 40 
Creamed Liver and Bacon 40 
Fillet of Beef With Mush- 
room Sauce 40 

Roast of Beef 40 

Ragout of Beef 41 

Pie to Accompany Roast 

Beef 41 

Baked Leg of Mutton .... 41 

Mock Duck 41 



Irish Stew 41 

Meat Pie 47 

Jellied Meat 48 

Marbled Meat 47 

Nut Meatose 48 

Meat Loaf 44 

Pressed Meat 45 

Breaded Tongue 45 

Veal Loaf 43 

Veal Cutlets 43 

Maryland Baked Ham ... 43 

Pickled Pork 44 

Sausage 44 

Noodles 44 

Polish Baked Noodles.... 44 

Yorkshire Pudding 48 

To Dry Beef 48 

Chile Con Carne 48 

Mint Sauce 46 

Caper Sauce 46 

Horseradish Butter 46 

Cream Mushroom Sauce. . 46 



BREAD. 



Directions for Making ... 53 

Potato Beer 53 

Whey Bread 54 

Bread 54 

Coffee Bread 56 

Nut Bread 54 

English Loaf 56 

Spiced Bread 56 

Whole Wheat Bread 56 

Ralston Health Bread 57 

Brown Bread 57 

Brown Bread 58 

Boston Brown Bread .... 57 

Rolls ;•• 58 

Brown Bread with Raisins 

or Nuts 58 

Graham Gems 59 

Bread Gems 59 

Graham Crackers 60 

Corn Bread 60 



Southern Corn Bread .... 60 

Beaten Biscuit 60 

Tea Biscuits 61 

Baking Powder Biscuit . . 61 

Good Biscuit 61 

Soda Biscuit 61 

Good Friday Buns 62 

Cinnamon Buns 62 

Rusk 62 

Sally Lunn Muffins 63 

Rice Muffins 63 

Corn Meal Muffins 63 

Cream Muffins 64 

Vim Muffins 64 

Waffles 65 

Griddle Cakes 65 

Graham Griddle Cakes . . 65 

Buckwheat Cakes 65 

Delicious Fried Mush .... 66 

Milk Toast 66 



VEGETABLES. 



Directions for Cooking . . 6g 
Table Directions for cook- 
ing 69 

Sauce for Veeetables .... 69 

Asparagus 70 

Fried Apples 70 

String Beans 70 

Baked Beans 70 

Lima Beans 71 

Beets 71 

Creamed Beets ^2 

Cooked Kraut 72 

Cooked Cabbage 72 

Creamed Cabbage Cooked ^2 
Creamed Cabbage Un- 
cooked 72 

Cold Slaw Dressing 72 

Cream Slaw "JZ 

Boiled Green Corn 'j'i 

Scalloped Corn ']2) 

Corn Oysters ^Z 

Fried Green Corn "JZ 

Boiled Carrots 74 

Salsify 78 

Savory Rice 78 

Rice Spanish 79 

Turkish Pilaf 79 



Spinach 79 

Cauliflower 74 

Stuffed Onions 74 

Tiny Green Onions 74 

Stuffed Peppers 74 

Creamed Potatoes 75 

Browned Potatoes 75 

Potato Puffs 75 

Fancy Baked Potatoes ... 75 

Potato Balls 75 

Potatoes O'Brien 75 

Potatoes an Gratin 76 

Potato Chips 76 

Escalloped Potatoes 76 

Maryland Sweet Potatoes TJ 

Southern Sweet Potatoes. 76 

Scalloped Sweet Potatoes "JJ 

Green Peas "JJ 

Escalloped Peas "JJ 

Egg Plant 78 

Spanish Dish 78 

Hubbard Squash 78 

How to Boil Rice 78 

Mashed Turnips 80 

To Peel Tomatoes 80 

Baked Tomatoes 80 

Stuffed Tomatoes 80 



SALAD. 



General Instructions 

Chicken Salad 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

Tomato Salad 

Ham Salad 

Tomato Salad 

Oyster Salad 

Cold Slaw 

Tomato Salad, half mourn- 
ing 

Fruit Salads 

Banana Salad 

Nut Salad 

Salmon Salad 

Fruit Salad 

Bean Salad 

Fruit Salad 



83 



85 
85 
85 
86 

86 
86 
87 
86 
86 
87 
87 



Green Salad 

Aspic Jelly 

Waldorf Salad 

Salad Dressing Lettuce 

Salad 

Asparagus Salad 

Potato Salad 

Aspic Jelly 

Tongue in Aspic 

Cabbage Salad 

Peanut Salad 

Salad Dressing 

Cream Salad Dressing . . . 

Fruit Mayonnaise 

Salad Dressing 

French Dressing 

Salad Dressing 

Colorings and Garnishes 



89 



90 
90 
90 
91 
91 
90 

91 
91 
92 

93 



PASTRY, 



Directions for Making.. 95 Mince Meat 90 



Puff Paste 95 

Plain Pastry 96 

Apple Pie 96 

Pumpkin Pie 96 

Pumpkin Pie 97 



Raisin Pie 

Cocoanut Pie 97 

■Sponge Cream Pie 97 

Cream Pie 97 

Orange Pie 98 

Custard Pie 98 

Chocolat-e Pie 98 

Transparent Tarts 98 

Martha Washington Pie.. 98 

Cream Short Cake 99 

Individual Strawberry 

Shortcakes 99 

Peach Shortcake 99 

Shortcake 99 



Best IMince Meat 100 

Mince Meat without meat 100 

Cocoanut Pie 100 

Cream Pie 100 

Cheese Pie lor 

Cream Pie loi 

Buttermilk Pic loi 

Strawberry Pie loi 

Scotch Shortcake loi 

Pineapple Pie loi 

Lemon Pie J02 

Lemon Pie 102 

Pieplant Pie 102 

Berry Pies 103 

Grandmother's Molasses 

Pie 103 

j\Iock Mince Pie 104 

Thanksgiving Pumpkin 

Pie 104 



DESSERTS. 



Fruit Bavarian Cream.... 107 

Jellies with Fresh Fruit. . 107 

Imperial Cream 107 

Nut Cream 108 

Maple Charlotte Russe... 108 

Coffee Jelly 108 

Snow Pudding 108 

Custard with Strawberries 109 

Lemon Snow 109 

Caladorice Cream 109 

Bird's Nest Pudding 109 

Orange Blanc Mange.... no 

Apple Porcupines no 

Lemon Foam no 

Lemon Jelly no 

Orange Jelly no 

Meringues in 

Pineapple Sponge in 

Charlotte Russe in 

Pineapple Sponge in 



Strawberry Fig Whip 112 

Cold Rice Dessert 112 

Coffee Cream 112 

Buttercup Jelly 112 

Cranberry Foam 113 

Chocolate Blanc Mange.. 113 

Veiled Beauty 113 

Baked Apples 113 

Snow Pyramids 113 

Almond Blanc Mange.... 
Almond Blanc Mange 

Bitts 114 

Rice Souffle 114 

Orange; Cream 114 

Spanish Cream 114 

Pineapple Tapioca Pud- 
ding 114 

Maple Junket 115 

Swiss Pudding 115 

Crystallized Fruit 115 



PUDDINGS. 



English Plum Pudding.. 117 

Blower House Plum Pud- 
ding 117 

English Plum Pudding. ... 117 

Transparent Sauce 118 

Hard Sauce 118 

Creamy Sauce 118 

Maple Sugar Sauce 118 



Raisin Puff • 122 

Nut Pudding 123 

Bread and Apple Pudding 123 

Chocolate Pudding 123 

Cold Cabinet Pudding .... 123 

Baked Apple Dumplings.. 124 

Marshmallow Pudding . . . 124 

Snow Pudding 124 



Orange Sauce 1 18 Cocoanut Pudding: 125 

Snowball Sauce 119 Delicious Pudding 125 

Fig Pudding 119 Grape Roll 125 

Fruit Pudding 120 Tapioca Pudding 125 

Graham Pudding 120 Apple Tapioca 126 

Raisin Pufif 119 Prune Pudding 126 

Suet Pudding 119 Cranberry Pudding 127 

Duff 119 Cottage Pudding 127 

Woodford Pudding 120 Cherry Pudding 127 

Steamed Pudding 121 Fraina Pudding 127 

Chocolate Pudding 120 Date Pudding 128 

Black Pudding 121 Rice Pudding 128 

Fruit Pudding 121 Lemon Cream Pudding... 127 

Fruit Pudding 121 Orange Pudding 128 

Peach Sago 121 Empress Pudding 128 

Quaking Pudding 122 Trilby Pudding 129 



FRITTERS. 

Fritter Directions 131 Vanity Fritters 132 

Fritters 131 Green Corn Fritters 133 

Pineapple Fritters 131 Celery Fritters 133 

Apple Fritters 132 ^P, ^'^"4 ^['""'^ '^^ 

^^ ^ Chicken Fritters 133 

Preseryed Plum Fritters.. 132 Oyster Fritters 133 

Pineapple Sauce 132 Crust Cups 133 

CROQUETTES. 

How to Make Croquettes 135 Sweet Potato Croquettes. 137 

Veal Croquettes 135 Croquettes a la Josephine 137 



Macaroni Croquettes 136 



Chicken and Sweetbread 

^, . , ^ ^, , Croquettes I37 

Chicken Croquettes 136 Rice Croquettes 137 

Salmon Croquettes 136 Rice Croquettes 138 

Custard Croquettes 136 Lizzie's Ham Croquettes. 138 

Oyster Croquettes 137 Croquette Sauce 138 

SANDWICHES. 

Directions for Making . . 147 Lettuce Sandwiches 149 

Cream Cheese and Parsley Cucumber Sandwiches .... 149 

Sandwiches 147 Club Sandwiches ....'... 149 

Onion Sandwiches 147 Lamb Sandwich 149 

Olive Sandwiches 148 Maple Sandwich 149 

Nut Sandwiches 148 Pinola Sandwich 150 

Filling for Sandwiches .... 148 Hot Cheese Sandwich . . . 150 

Ribbon Bread 148 Dessert Sandwich 150 

Hot Sandwiches 148 Nut Ginger Sandwich .... 150 

Nut Sandwiches 149 Chicken Sandwich 150 

Bean Sandwiches 149 Ham Sandwich 151 



CHEESE AND MACARONI. 



Cheese Pudding 141 

Scalloped Cheese 141 

Cheese Souffle 141 

Cheese Balls 141 

Che€se Fonca 142 

Cheese Dreams 142 

Cheese Straws 142 



Cheese Straws 142 

Cheese Balls 142 

Baked Macaroni and Oy- 
sters 143 

Macaroni and Cheese .... 143 

Macaroni with Chicken . . 143 

Macaroni and Cheese .... 144 

Spanish Macaroni 144 



EGGS. 



Plain Omelet 153 

Feather Omelet 153 

Rice Omelet 154 

Omelette Souffle 154 

Creamed Eggs for Lunch 153 
Egg Turnovers 153 



Deviled Eggs I54 

Egg Toast . 154 

Eggs Baked -with Cheese. 154 

Creamed Eggs 155 

Date Omelet 155 

Fried Eggs 155 



Jellied Eggs 154 Poached Eggs 155 



CHAFING DISH DEPARTMENT. 



Creamed Oysters 157 

Oyster Omelette 157 

Celeried Oysters 157 

Fried Oysters 158 

Panned Oysters 158 

Boston Oysters 158 

Waldorf Oysters 158 

Creamed Salmon 159 

Creamed Chicken 158 

Chicken Terrapin 158 



Fricasse of Dried Beef. . 159 

Codfish and Eggs 159 

Sweetbreads with Peas . . 159 
Poached Eggs with Toma- 
to Sauce 160 

India Curried Onion .... 160 

Brown Eggs 160 

Lenox Babbit 160 

Glorified Rarebit 160 

Baboon 161 

Golden Buck 161 



QUANTITIES. 
Quantities 163 to 165 How to Serve a Dinner.. 166 



CAKES AND FILLINGS. 



Directions and Hints . . 
Burnt Caramel Cake . . 
Orange Cocoanut Cake 
Almond Cream Cake . . 

Cream Sponge Cake . . 
Good Sponge Cake . . . . 
Chocolate Sponge Cake 

Fruit Cak€ 

White Fruit Cake 

Wedding Fruit Cake . . 



169 
170 
170 
171 
170 
170 
171 
171 
172 
172 



Angel Foods 176 

White Cakes I77 

Cocoanut Cake I77 

Devil's Foods i77 

Jam Cakes 178 

Ribbon Cakes I79 

Ice Cream Cake 180 

Orange Cake 180 

Filden Cake 180 

Caramel Cake 180 

Lemon Cake 181 



Bride's Fruit Cake 172 

Fruit Cake 172 

Fudge Cake 173 

Genoa Cake 173 

Fig Cake I73 

Mother's Gingerbread .... 174 

Gingerbread I74 

Ginger Cake 174 

Othello Cake I75 

Spanish Buns I75 

Drop Cake I75 

Hickory Nut Cake i75 

Nut Cake I75 

Spice Cakes i75 

Potato Cake 176 



Feather Cake 181 

Marble Cake 181 

Good Cheap Cake 181 

Mahogany Cake 182 

Graham Cake 182 

Lilly Cake 182 

Bride's Cake 182 

Coffee Cak€s 182 

Sunshine Cake 183 

Dover Cake 183 

Chocolate Cake 183 

Minister's Cake 183 

Dark Cake 183 

Cocoanut Cake 184 

Marbled Chocolate 184 



SMALL CAKES. 



Marguerites I9.3 

Snowball Cake i93 

Cocoanut Drops 193 

Cream Puffs I93 

Jelly Roll 194 

Tarts 194 

Tea Cakes I94 

Fruit Cookies 194 

Hermits I95 

Nut Macaroons i95 

Rocks 195 

Nut Kisses I95 

Black Walnut Cookies... 195 

Peanut Cookies 196 

Nut Drops 196 

Seed Cookies 196 

Oatmeal Cookies 196 



Graham Cookies 196 

Soft Molasses Cookies . . 197 

Sugar Cookies 197 

Ginger Cookies 197 

Ginger Snaps 197 

Drop Ginger Cakes 197 

Gingersnaps 197 

Ginger Cookies 198 

Sour Milk Cookies 198 

Virginia Cookies 198 

Excellent Doughnuts .... 198 

Fried Cakes 199 

Raised Doughnuts 199 

Mother's Crullers 199 

Crullers without Shorten- 
ing 199 

Angel Rolls 199 



FROZEN DISHES. 



General Directions 201 

Bisque Glace 201 

Caramel Ice Cream 201 

Caramel Sauce 201 

Cranberry Ice 202 

Chocolate Sauce 202 

Cranberry Sherbert 202 

Frozen Custard 202 

Frozen Fig Pudding 202 

Frozen Peaches 203 

Fruit Frappe 203 

Ginger Ice Cream 203 

Grape Frappe 203 

Ice Cream and Figs ... 204 

Ice Cream 203 

Frozen Punch 204 



Lemon Ice 204 

Maple Ice Cream Sauce.. 204 

Maple Mousse 204 

Maple Parfait 205 

Orange Souffle 205 

Orange Cherry Sherbert . 205 

Raspberry Sherbert 205 

Apricot Sherbert 205 

Oriental Sauce 206 

Peach Sherbert 206 

Peach Ice Cream 206 

Pineapple Sherbert 206 

Plain Ice Cream 206 

S^^ravvberry Sherbert 206 

The Three Ices 207 

Peach Mousse 207 



BEVERAGES. 



Plain Fruit Punch 209 

Strawberry Nectar 209 

Lemonade 209 

Raspberry Vin-egar 209 

Kumiss 209 

Sweet Grape Juice 210 

Fruit Punch Frappe 210 

Grape Juice 210 

Fruit Punch 210 

Pineapple Lemonade 210 



Nectar 210 

Eggnog 211 

Cocoa 211 

Boiled Coffee 211 

Coffee 211 

Tea 211 

Chocolat-e 211 

Iced Cocoa 212 

Iced Coffee 212 

Iced Tea 212 

Christmas Punch 212 



CONFECTIONS. 



Chocolate JNIarshmallow 

Fudge 215 

Marshmallow Fudge .... 215 

Fudge 215 

White Fudge 216 

Divinity 216 

Heavenly Hash 216 

Nouget 216 

Creole Pralines 216 

Pinochi 217 

Pralines 217 

Cream Candy 217 



Mapl-e Cream Candy 217 

Cream Loaf 217 

Butter Scotch 217 

Peanut Brittle 217 

IMolasses Taffy 217 

Bum Bum 217 

Puffed Rice Balls 218 

Honey Boy 218 

Fondant for Icing 219 

Maple Sugar Candy 219 

Orange Sticks 220 

Crystallized Violet 220 



PICKLES AND CATSUP. 



Cucumber Pickles 

Cucumbers in Brine 

Mustard Pickles 

Chopped Pickles 

Higdon Pickles 

Spanish Pickles 

Green Tomato Pickles.... 
Sweet Green Tomato 

Pickles 

Favorite Pickles 

Tomato Relish 

Pickled Beans 

Cauliflower Pickles 

Green Pickled Tomatoes.. 
Pickled Beets 



223 
.223 
224 

22s 



225 
225 

226 
226 
226 
226 
226 
227 
227 



Pickled Onions 

Watermelon Pickles 

Cucumber Catsup 

Sweet Cucumber Pickles. 

Pickled Peaches 

Salted Cherries 

Higdon Picca Lilli 

Chili Sauce 

Chow Chow 

Chili Sauce 

Chili Sauce without cook- 
ing 

Tomato Catsup 

Oil Pickles 

Cold Tomato Catsup .... 
Quince Sweet Pickles .... 



227 
227 
227 
228 
228 
228 
228 
228 
229 
229 

229 
229 
229 
230 
230 



CANNED FRUITS AND JELLIES. 



Hints for canning 233 

Table for Canning Fruit. 233 
Canned Corn 234 



Cherry Preserves 22,(i 

Ginger Pears 236 

Preserved Pears 236 



Canning Tomatoes Whole 234 

Tomato Preserves 234 

Tomato Pulp 234 

Canning Apples and Quin- 
ces 23s 

Chopped Apple Preserves 235 

Orange Marmalade 235 

Apple Butter 235 

Plum and Apple Butter... 236 
Conde Sauc-e 236 



Canned Peaches 236 

Strawberry Preserve 237 

Citron and Quince Pre- 
serve 237 

Elderberry Butter 237 

Orange Marmalade 237 

Conserve 237 

Appk Jelly 238 

Grape Jelly 238 

Spiced Gooseberries 238 



ADVERTISING. 



Avery, D. S. 67 

A. O. U. W 206 

Armor, Dr. Gladdis 185 

Bennett, F. S 214 

Baker, Walter 146 

Bayles Food Products ... 82 

Baird, F. A 105 

Bowers, F. H 130 

Buchanan, A 152 

Brooks, W. H 134 

Balwegg, Mrs. Carl 106 

Buck and Spencer 221 

The Carleton 162 

Chase Musical Conserva- 
tory 2 

Culbertson, Dr. George... 130 

Combs, W. J 191 

Citv Roller Mills 51 

Citizens Bank 249 

Collett, Miss 191 

Diamond Crystal Salt Co. 116 

Dumm Furniture Co 156 

Evans, E. N 191 

Emporia Gazette 240 

Emporia State Bank 249 

Emporia Marble Co 232 

Emporia Music Co 105 

Emporia National Bank.. 38 

Emporia Harness Co 208 

Emporia Plumbing Co. ... 254 

Eclipse Starch 24 

Emporia Business College 192 

Emporia Lumber Co 32 

Eckdall & McCarty 4 

Fleming & Potter 208 

Faultless Starch Co 11 

Halberg, Chas. G 11 

Graham, J. 162 

Givin, W. A 148 

Gregg, Ross 94 



Madden, Dennis 105 

The Model 130 

Mysers Bros 232 

Dr. Morgan 11 

McKillip & Swallow 5U 

Mit-Way Hotel 140 

Mit-Way News Stand ... 3 

McCown, J. M 185 

J. A. Moore Drug Co 222 

McCord & McCord 105 

Morris, D. W. & Son 94 

McConnell, H 130 

National Life Insurance 

Company 254 

Pete Newton 254 

Newman Dry Goods Co.. 3 

O. M. O. Dress Shield.... 232 

Dr. Parrington 11 

Partridge Hair Parlors... 67 

Plymouth Rock Gelatine. 68 

Price Cereal Food Co. . . . 208 

Plumb & Samuel 185 

Poehler Mercantile Co . . . 221 

Peters Hardware Co 168 

E. P. Reed & Co 82 

Wm. Read & Sons 186 

Rosenthal and Sloan 20 

Rice Seed Co 4 

Rauscher, J. H.. meat mar- 
ket 134 

Rorabaugh Dry Goods Co. 192 

Ryder & Protheroe 32 

Riggs, S. B 162 

Richards, W. H 162 

Richardson Silk Co. 206 

Rowland Printing Co 254 

Ringen Stove Co 186 

Rubber Paint Co 24 

Samuel, Owen S 185 

Stinson & Cooper 140 

Star Grocery 221 



Hanier & Harris 185 

Hay & Van Tassel 50 

Haynes Bros 213 

Hereford Meat Market... 206 

The Hustler 152 

Hainer, D. W 192 

Hoffer & Lepper 192 

Hub Restaurant 81 

Ireland. A. C 3 

Irwin, W. R n 

Iglch-eart Bros 81 

Jones & Stone 2 

Jones Clothing Co 191 

Kenney, J. F 231 

Kopke, F 156 

Kincaid, J. E 145 

Lambert & Huggins 145 

Lee & Vernon 94 

Loomis, F. A 3 

Lee Mercantile Co 139 

Lenox Restaurant 214 

Malleabl-e Iron Range Co. 222 
Manniere-Yoe Syrup Co. 4 
Majestic Range Co 168 



Soden, J. R 52 

Scudder Syrup Co 24 

Streater Stamping Co. ... 67 
Standard Varnish Co. ... 152 

Standard Oil Cloth 12 

Dr. Simson & Daughter. . 50 

Salisbury, B 38 

Smclser, W. N 105 

Sprague, E. P 254 

Tibbals, H. A 3 

Tiffany Bakery 222 

Theis, C. P 50 

Topeka Milling Co 

Watson, Miss J. S 232 

Warren Mortgage Co. ... 38 

Weeks, Mrs. Dan 50 

Winters Grocery 50 

Whitley Hotel 134 

Willis, W. A 231 

Ben Wheldon Drug Co . . 134 
Watson & Ballweg Lum- 
ber Co 145 

L. G. Wilcox Grocery Co. 94 
Williams, D. D 4 



J. N. Engle, District Manag'-.r Emporia, Kansas Bundrem Bloc 

NATIONAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. 

MONTPESLIEIR. VEKMONX 

OLD TRIED TRUE 



PETE NEWTON'S TRANSFER 

FIRST CLASS LIVERY TEL. 86 

The Rowland Printing Co. 

Book anij Commercial 
PRINTERS 

1S> \»-EST FIFTH AVENUE 

TELEPHONE aoi EMPOKIA, KANSAS 

Emporia Stea^m Planing Mill 
and Lumber Yard 

LUMBER AISTD COAL 

E. F. SPRAGUE & CO. 

309-31 5 Constitution Street Emporia, Kansas 

Carl T. Hogue Karl H. Fischer 

EMPORIA PLUMBING CO. 

HEATIIS'O KNGINEKKS 

Electricians, Steam, Hot Water and Gas Fitters, Contractors for Sewerage 
and Drainage. Estimatesmp.de. Plans drawn. 

Dea^lers ir\ Electrical Supplies, Bath Tubs, Lavatories, Water Closets, Hydrants 

PHONEITO ]SO. 81 W. FIFTH AVENUE 



F. C. NEWMAX. President L. L. HALLECK. Vice President 

J. M. STEELE. Cashier H. W. FISHER, Asst. Cashier 



The Citizens National Bank 

EMPORIA, KANSAS 

Capital, Surplus and Profits, $245,000 



STATE DEPOSITARY 



Sacvings BanK Department 
Safety Deposit Boxes 





DIRECTORS 




G. W. Xeir?}>an 


T. J. Acheson 


T. F. Byrnes 


Jl. J. Edwards 


L. L. Halleck 


F. C. Newman 


Calvin Hood 


J. S. Kenyan 


J. M. Steele 



WILL WAYMAX. President FREMONT MILLER. Cashier 

H. A. WA YMAN. Assistant Cashier 



Emporia State Bank 

EMPORIA, KANSAS 



SPECIAL FACILITIES FOR LADY CUSTOMERS 
and Their Patronage Solicited 



We do General Banking, have a Savings 
Department and Make Farm Loans 



L'c;' • i^^'j 



iliiiiiW 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




mM^i 



